
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
171 die as DC-1 0 is sabotaged 
Associated Press 
PARIS-A Moslem extremist group claimed responsibility Wednesday for the downing of a French DC-1 0 jetliner in southern Niger that killed all 171 people on board. 
U.S., French and UTA airline authorities said they believe the plane, bound Tuesday from Chad to Paris, was blown out of the sky by a bomb. A U.S. team of investigators was to leave later Wednesday for Niger. 
Two callers who claimed to represent Islamic Jihad but did not give their own names made their claims of responsibility in separate telephone calls to the airline and to a Western news agency. 
Islamic Jihad is among sev­eral radical fundamentalist groups in Lebanon believed to be part of llezbollah, or Party of God, the umbrella groups thought to hold 16 Westerners hostage in Lebanon, including eight Americans. 
llezbollah was at the center of a hostage crisis earlier this summer. when Israeli forces in southern Lebanon kidnapped a group member, Shiite Moslem religious leader Sheik Abdul­Karim Obeid. 
Three days after the July 28 abduction of Obeid. the pro-Iranian Organization of the Oppressed on Earth claimed it retaliated by hanging U.S. Marine Lt. Col. William Higgins, abducted while on U.N. duty in Lebanon. Doubt has been cast on claims Higgins was hanged or whether he died earlier. 

Among the passengers on the French jetliner were seven Americans, including Bonnie Pugh, wife of the U.S. ambas­sador to Chad, Robert Pugh. 
UTA Flight 772 was on a flight from Brazzaville, Congo, to Paris when it crashed Tuesday shortly after making a stop in N'Djamena, Chad. Debris was scattered over a 16­mile expanse of desert about 400 miles northwest of N'Djamena. 
The French army, whose troops stationed in neighboring Chad were the first to reach the scene, said the15 crew and 156 passengers died, including eight children. 
Authorities said indications are that the aircraft was felled by a bomb. 
"It exploded at high altitude leaving every reason to believe it was a bomb," said UTA spokesman Michel Friesse. He said it was possible, but less likely, the explosion was due to technical failure. 
A Foreign Ministry spokesman, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, echoed that 
sentiment:  "The  pieces  are  
widely scattered,  so  it didn't  
crash on impact."  


The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

Got the loot! 
Freshman Brian Terrien proudly displays his wares from the panty raid of Saint Mary's last night. 
Ellsberg reflects on role in ,Vietnam information release 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Daniel Ellsberg, tfie man who former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger called both "a genius" and "the most danger­ous man in the world," deliv­ered a lecture on Wednesday entitled "Appropriate Responses of Government Officials to Wrongful War." 
Ellsberg told the audience that difficult choices must be made and that choosing what is right often has serious conse­quences. 
"There are times when you have to say no to a president, no to a state, even when you have to go to jail for it," Ellsberg said. "I expected to go to jail for the rest of my life for what I did." 
As an employee of the RAND corporation, Ellsberg had ac­cess to the entire 43 volumes of the Pentagon Papers, an analy­sis of the U.S.'s 23-year mili­tary involvement in Vietnam. 
In 1971, after becoming disil­lusioned with the Vietnam War, Ellsberg released the Pentagon 
ND students attacked off-campus 

BY KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Two off-campus students were assaulted by a group of black males Saturday, September 16 on Corby Street. 
According to one of the stu­dents who was attacked. who will remain anonymous for se­curity reasons, the incident oc­curred at midnight when the students were walking on Corby Street to Bridget's Filling Station. 
"As we approached the last house on the left on Corby near Bridget's and five points area, we noticed a group of guys sit­ting on the front lawn of this house," said the student. 
He said that he and his friend were walking on the same side of the street as the house. 
"When we saw them we weren't sure if we should cross the street, turn and run, or keep walking. So we kept walk­ing, trying to act very casual about the situation," the stu­dent said. 
"As we got closer, someone came towards us asking if we had change for a ten [dollar bill]." He said they replied that they did not have change and soon after there were many people all around them. 
The student said he was not 

sure how many people were 
around them, but he estimates 
that there were at least ten. 
The group consisted of males 
ages 17 to 20 years 
"One of us was chased back and forth across the street, while the other was encircled by at least five guys," said the stu­dent. "I remember looking over while I was being chased and seeing the other guy being hit from all directions." 
The student said he tried to break away but a second wave of youths came at him. He said his companion broke out of the circle and ran to Bridget's to summon the police officer who was stationed at the entrance. 
"The Bridget's police officer came, and so did the South Bend Police and a car of stu­dents," he said. "Everyone from the house ran away and we told the police what happened." 
The student said that neither he nor his friend were seriously injured. He said his friend had been struck on the head and had a few bumps. 

"It was dumb for us to ever walk that route, but we figured it could never happen to us. But it did, and it will undoubtedly happen to more people," the student said. 
The student said that he and his friend did not file a report with the South Bend Police. He said his roommate was worried about aggravating a previous situation with the Office of Student Affairs should he be in­volved in another incident. 
Patrick Doran, assistant di­rector of residence life, said that he has never heard of a case such as this that has been pursued from a disciplinary standpoint. "The most impor­tant thing is to do something about the crime." 
In a case where alcohol was involved.. Doran said Student Affairs would first deal with the assault and then later John Goldrick, associate vice presi­
see ATTACK I page 4 

Papers to the New York Times. possible prison sentence of 115 
"I saw the system that I years.worked for. I saw a system that In 1973, the case against him lies from top to bottom, war­was dismissed because of gov­rant officer to commander-in­
ernment misconduct, the first 
chief, in order to cover up mur­time such a dismissal was is­der, "said Ellsberg. 
sued before a case came to As a result, the Nixon trial, according to Ellsberg.
Administration indicted him on "The government had broken 12 counts of espionage, theft and conspiracy. He faced a 
see ELLSBERG/ page 4 

Support group for working parents begins at ND · 


BY HANNAH WU 
News Staff 

The f"rrst ofa weekly series of five classes for working parents entitled "Group Support forthe Working Parents" began at Notre Dame on Wednesday. The program is.· a feature of 
Notre .Dame's Year of the Family. 
A panel of four spoke on "Finding the Best 'Fit .. for Ym:tand YoU!' Child: A.Guide to Choosing and Using Child Care." Nora Hoff and 
.· .lMurphl', consiJ.Itants 
the Michiarta Employee AssitJtant Program, ad· dressed the issue of .chotlsing a g9od chil~.·.care establishment, · ents to "make expectations as clear as possible at the beginning" if they decide to have in•home care. He said that these expectations may have nothing to do with the quality of the care. but were very important issues such as details about pay, and care givers' responsibilities in the household. 
Terri Kosik, director of the Early Childhood Development Center, and Ann Rosen, who teaches early parenting education classes at St. Joseph Medical Center also spoke in the class. 
All of the classes will take place on Wednesdays from noon .to l:15 .p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, September 21, 1989 

WORLD BRIEFS 
Jose Napoleon Duarte. former president of El Salvador who has liver cancer, has suffered a sharp deterioration in his condition and could be near death, his doctor said Wednesday. Dr. Jose Luis Saca told The Associated Press in a telephone inter­view that Duarte was in "serious but stable" condition Wednesday aftnrnoon. "I thought he was going to die last night. But we were able to stabilize him, and I don't think he'll die within the next 24 hours," said Sac a. 
F.W. de Klerk was sworn in as president in Pretoria, South Africa Wednesday and promised a new constitution that would bring blacks into South Africa's government by the end of his five­year term. lie appealed to South Africans of all races to help build a nation "free of domination and oppression. "We accept that time is of the essence and we are committed to visible, evolu­tionary progress," de Klerk said in his inaugural speech. He has vowed to eliminate discrimination and allow blacks, who currently eannot vote, participation in government under a five-year plan. 
A demand for health potions has spurred a jump in frog and snake imports to South Korea, a government report said Wednesday. Some Korean men believe snake soup and frog meat build stamina. Aceording to an Agriculture and Fisheries Ministry report to the National Assembly on imports of foreign food items, South Korea's imports of snakes in the first half of this year climbed to $380,000, surpassing the $295,000 in imports during all of 1988. The report also said that South Korea imported $48,000 in frogs in the first six months of this year, compared with $37,000 through all of last year. 

NATIONAL BRIEFS 
A congressional panel voted unanimously Wednesday to subpoena former HUD Secretary Samuel Pierce Jr.. to testify about alleged influence-peddling and mismanagement at the de­partment he once headed. His attorney accused the panel of "vindictive and punitive actions." Pierce was ordered to appear on three separate occasions -the first coming next Tuesday ­before the subcommittee that is investigating scandals at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 

INDIANA BRIEFS 
A Culver man accused of counterfeiting more than $400,000 and distributing it in five states faces a Nov. 6 trial in 
U.S. District Court. James Sarna, 51, pleaded innocent to the charges Tuesday during his arraignment before Judge Robert Miller Jr. Sarna was indicted earlier this month on five counts re­lated to the counterfeiting of $20, $50 and $100 bills. He was ar­rested Aug. 21 after federal agents seized about $400,000 worth of high quality fake bills, printing plates, a press and other related items from a building in Hamlet that Sarna had rented under an assumed name two days earlier. 

WEATHER 

Sunny 

Partly sunny today with highs around 80. Partly cloudy tonight with lows near 60. Mostly cloudy Friday with a 30 percent chance of rain. Highs in the middle 70s. 
ALMANAC 
On September 21 : 
e In 1897: The New York Sun 
ran its famous "Yes, Virginia, 
there is a Santa Claus" editorial that answered 8-year-old Vir­ginia O'llanlon's letter about Santa's existence. 
e In 1938: A devastating hur­ricane with winds clocked at more than 180 mph struck parts of New York and New England with little warning, causing widespread damage and claiming more than 600 lives. 
e In 1982: The National Foot­ball League players began a 57­day strike, their first regular­season walkout. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Sir P 500 1?-0.75 to 352.10 Currency exchange 
Mark 1}-.39 to 51.54 $/DM 
Yen 4?-.50 to 68.96 $1¥ 
Pound it .0135 to 1 .5830 $/£ 

Precious Metals 
Gold iJ' $3.90 to $370.10 I oz. Silver 1?-5.50¢ to $5.2150 I oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 

lnlormat1on complied from Observer w1res and Observer stall reports 
'-"·,. ........ ' ." ... " .. ..
' 

Experiences of the past lend meaning to future 
In just about two weeks, one of the major events of senior year at Saint Mary's will take place: Senior Father/Daughter Weekend. In preparing for this weekend, finding out about the aetivities planned and deciding where I would take Dad, I had a sudden realization of what is happening to my life: ehange. 
The last time I was a senior, I was 17 and looking forward to four years of relative secu­rity at Saint Mary's. Now, at 21, the future is far from certain and, at times, scary. One would think that with age comes more freedoms, but not in all areas. As a senior in high school, I dyed the front of my hair blond and put more time into the "attitude" of my clothing than any homework. If I were to do the same thing now, I hardly think IBM or Priee-Waterhouse would be impressed. 
After four years of high school and 17 years of my hometown, all I wanted tv do was get out. Going away to school was my main goal. Even my own home was a place from which to dis­tance myself. I, being your average teenager, had more than enough sarcasm to start many an argument with my family. Now, though, I don't have a home to go back to. Of course, I could always go back to my parents house, but I want to start a life of my own, which means finding a job, an apartment, a new way of life. 
My life at school is not exempt from change either. Did I forget that in the real world, with a real job, there is no mid-semester break? No three weeks vacation at Christmas? I will highly value that time this year. My advice to any se­nior would be to enjoy being the "friend/son/daughter who goes away to school" and the nice receptions one get on returning home. As it is now, my family and friends treat me rather well when I go home on breaks. Someone always wants to take me out to lunch, to a movie or treat me to the nightly drink spe­cials at the bars (usually friends, not Mom or Dad). 
Maybe I've been "blind" in the past to all the "luxuries" I do have. There isn't a time when I go home that I am not complaining about something: the work, the food, the horrible showers. I am getting an education at one of the best colleges in the country and my parents willingly gave up a lot (money, yes, but other intangibles) to send me here, and all they ask for in return is for me to be happy and as Dad says, "Just do your best, that's all we ask." And I find something to complain about? 
One thing I know has happened to me at sehool in the last four years is that I've been trapped in a sort of time warp. You see, when I 





OF INTEREST 
A French Mass will be said by Fr. Patrick Gaffney this Sunday, September 24 at 4:00p.m. in the Log Chapel. It is sponsored by Le Cercle Francais and all are invited and encouraged to attend. Any questions, call Bridget at 283-2595. 
All campus bands interested in playing on campus during the 1989-'90 year need to send a representative to sign up in the SUB Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune at 7:00. All under­graduate and graduate students are welcome, as is any type of music. 
AIDS Education: anyone interested in bringing AIDS Education on campus, there will be a meeting in Room 343 in Nieuwland Science Hall at 7:00p.m.. 
Junior Class: free bus rides to Beacon Bowling leave the Main Circle at 9:00 p.m. and return about midnight. 

'I have always been a firm believer 
in the necessity of change.' 
Christine Gill 
Saint Mary's Editor 

go home, I expect things to be just as they were when I left. As if "my world," as I know it, would stop when I left. This sounds quite ego­tistical, but I think it is something that happens to many people. My friends are all supposed to be there, my house won't have changed, and my family will be waiting for me, exaetly as I left them. However, this past summer put a halt to my distorted perceptions when one friend took the LSAT's and prepared to choose a law school and my Dad asked what color I thought the new den should be painted. 
"Den, what den'!'', I asked. 
"Oh, sorry, did I say den. I meant, what color do you want your room painted?", Dad slyly an­swered. Thanks for waiting until I came back to school before moving your Lay-Z-Boy in, Dad. 
This "time-trap" exists here at school also. Did I think my roommates and I would live to­gether forever? I happen to believe that the fi­ancee of one of my roommates would frown on this. Which, in turn, leads to another event which forced me to face reality. In just three weeks, I am going home with my roommate to try on dresses to be in her wedding , which is in June. Wait a minute, married? Yes, it is true, it's not always going to be "it won't happen to anyone I know." Are we old enough to be mar­ried? Why then, at 21, are there times when I feel like I'm still in the seventh grade, and just as unsure of myself. 
I have always been a firm believer in the ne­cessity of change. There is a poster above my desk that shows the trees in fall, with all their beautiful colors and the words: It is only through change that we grow. Yet, however much I think I believe in this idea, accepting it into my life and making it work for me is a goal I have to work towards this year. 
So when my Dad comes up in a few weeks, I will be excited for the weekend, but I will also be looking beyond it to a clearer vision of senior year at Saint Mary's. 
Japanese scholarships. grants and jobs are available. To find out more information, attend the meeting today at 7:00 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
Northern Ireland Awareness Group will hold its first meeting of this year on today at 7:30p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. Professor Rice of the Law School will discuss the legal aspects of the case of Joseph Doherty. 
The Math Club invites all interested stu­dents to attend a brief, organizational meeting. It will be held tonight at 8:00p.m. in Room 214 of the Computer-Math Building. 
The Air Force ROTC's Arnold Air Society will hold a one hour flag retreat to honor our POWs and MIAs at 4:30 p.m .. 
Design Editor ............... Tricia Grohman Design Assltant ......... Kristen Costello 


Typesetters ................... Molly Schwartz ..................................................Gilbert Gomez Assistant News Editor.... Greg Lucas News Copy Editor... . ..... Sarah Voigt 
Sports Copy Editor ......... Bob Mitchel VIewpoint Editor........ Christine Walsh 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
VIewpoint Copy Editor Janice O'Leary VIewpoint Layout. ............ Katie Foster
(219) 239-7471 

Accent Editor ............... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor ..........Terri Walsh Accent Designer .......... Jane Riccardi Typists ............................Erin Schirtzinger NO Dsy Editor ............... Colleen Malloy The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except Photographer . . ................. Joe Vittaco during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the Ads Designers ........... Shannon Roach University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· ......................................................Mindy Breen chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. ......................................................Shelia Jones 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights ..................................................Jeanne Naylor are reserved. Business Editor .................. Liz Panzica Business Copy Editor lauren Deluca 
Thursday, September 21, 1989 The Observer page 3 
campus security concerns discussed in open forum 
BY KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Students, administration and Notre Dame Security discussed campus security concerns in an open forum Wednesday night. 
Rex Rakow, director of Security and Charles Hurley, assistant director of Security along with John Goldrick, asso­ciate vice president for resi­dence life and several dorm rectors took suggestions from students and offered advice about the current situation on campus. 
Many students voiced the concern that Security's services are not well-known on campus. Several students said they did not know that female students have access to Security's escort service anytime during dark hours. 
Rakow wrote down the sug­gestions from the students in­cluding specific places on cam­pus that students said lack 

Tim Fisher, J.D. Childs and Jim Pastor (front to back) relax in the sun by the War Memorial yesterday. The broad marble ledge of the monument proves to be a great foot rest. 
sufficient lighting. He said that discuss a student-run escort ported to the public. Rakow de­anytime students have sugges­service. Many students agreed nied that there had been such a tions they may call him or write that they would like to see such rape but did say that date him a Jetter. a service at Notre Dame. rapes had occurred. 
"Nobody is suggesting that a Students suggested that peo­G,oldrick said that a Campus college student should become ple on campus could volunteer Alliance for Rape Elimination a recluse," said Hurley. He said to be an escort to work-off dis­(CARE) has been formed at the students have to use common ciplinary community service University. sense and not walk alone or hours. Someone suggested that "Anytime you hear a rumor," even in small groups out in golf carts be used for escort­Rakow said, "Call us and we'll dangerous neighborhoods. ing. be glad to talk to you." He said 
Gina Mahoney, a junior, said A student asked if there had that she had met with Student been a rape on South Quad last 
see FORUM I page 4 

Body President Matt Breslin to year that Security had not re-
Ellsberg speaks on foreign policy 
BY SARAH VOIGT Senior Staff Reporter  plans and military options in Vietman.  denials are ominous, " said Ells berg.  
Ellsberg said that he released  Ellsberg predicts that the  
Daniel Ellsberg, peace activist  the Pentagon Papers for publi­ U.S. public would not be in­ 
and former government consul­ cation in the New York Times  volved in the decision to send  
tant responsible for releasing  because he felt an obligation to  combat troops into a Latin  
the top-secret Pentagon Papers  share the previously undis­ American country until it would  
in 1969, drew an "ominous  closed information with the  be too late.  
number of parallels" between  public. "I felt that the informa­ "We know from the Vietnam  
the U.S. involvement in Vietnam  tion should not be mine alone.  War, if experience is any guide,  
and its current covert relations  It was very relevant to the con­ and it is, that when Americans  
with Latin American countries.  tinuation of the war and  by presidential authorization  
In a press conference  whether or not we had the right  become directly involved in  
Wednesday, Ellsberg said that  to continue it," said Ellsberg.  combat in Latin America, the  
the U.S. policies toward the  Ellsberg perceives similar  public will not be told until it is  
Vietnam War could only have  dangerous trends of secrecy in  virtually inescapable, " said  
been pursued under a veil of se­ U.S. foreign policy today. He  Ellsberg.  
crecy and lies. "In reality, the  said, "Only secrecy and lies  Ellsberg believes that the ex­ 
American public would never  could have gotten us into the  ecutive branch of the U.S. gov­ 
have authorized the money [for  covert war against Nicaragua  ernment has gained "freedom  
the Vietnam War] or the lies  and let us maintain relations  of action that even King George  
had they understood the situa­ with El Salvador."  III couldn't have dreamed of. It  
tion," Ellsberg said.  According to Ellsberg, the  is extremely dangerous to have  
Since Ellsberg was the only  ambiguous wording of  a leader who can decide  
researcher with authorized ac­ President Bush's assurances  whether or not we go to war in  
cess to the entire 47 volumes of  that no U.S. combat troops will  this nuclear age."  
the top-secret Pentagon Papers,  be used in these parts of the  
he understood the history of  world are often false. "My own  Ellsberg said, "The issue of  
the U.S. decision making in  experience in the Pentagon has  whether to kill people in foreign  
Vietnam from 1945-1968.  taught me that this [denial of  lands should not be left to the  
During the 1960's, he was a  troops] cannot be true. The  chief executive or his advisors.  
consultant to the Defense  wording in these statements  Instead, it should be a result of  
Department, the State  are so similar to deceptive as­ national debate where the pub­ 
Department and the White  surances given by Nixon and  lic has had a ehance to reflect  
House on strategic nuclear war  Kennedy in the past that the  and be heard."  

SMC freshman elections generate run-off 
with the result of two presiden­ticket of Colleen Rhattigan and tial tickets in a run-off to be Carol Egan, running for presi­held Friday. dent and vice-president, re­
Neither ticket was able to spectively, will face Katie achieve the majority required Damm and Linda Shaffer in 
to win in first . The Friday's vote. 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Freshman Council members who were elected by Wednesday's tally were: Gretchen Bath, Jenny Danahy, Amanda Setter, Emilie Luna, Marty Marzolf, Maureen Seeley, Dina Selman, Jill Weber and Renee Young. 

There was a 53 percent voter turnout for the elections, which is an excellent response from the class, said Molly Bringardner, Elections Commissioner. 
The run-off will be Friday, September 22, with voting tak­ing place in the dining hall. 

PURDUE LOTTERY TICKETS SIGN-UPS 
Monday, Sept. 25 11 :00am-4:00pm ONLY Dooley Room, LaFortune Center sign-ups for N.D. Grad and Undergrad. 2 I.D.'s per person: one must be self! Winning lottery numbers will be listed in The Observer TUESDAY, SEPT. 26 
p~a~g~e~4________________________________________________T~h~e~O~b~se~N~er~______________________________T_h_u_r_sd__a_y, September21, 1989 
St. Croix evacuated as Hugo nears 
Associated Press 
CHRISTIANSTED, U.S. Virgin Islands -The Coast Guard on Wednesday began evacuating people from the resort island of St. Croix because of security fears following widespread looting after Hurricane Hugo. 
In Washington, President Bush authorized sending U.S. troops, including military police units, to the U.S. Virgin Islands 
Ellsberg 
continued from page 1 
into the offices of two of my 
former psychoanalysts in an at­
tempt to blackmail me or em­
barrass me so badly that I 
commit suicide," he said. "Thev also brought Cuban-Americans to the U.S. to assault me on the steps of the Capitol in order to stop a protest." 
Ellsberg drew attention to the lecture delivered Tuesday by former Heagan Administration National Secrurity Advisor Hobert McFarlane. McFarlane said that covert military actions cannot by undertaken unless the American people un­derstand it and support it. 
Forum 
continued from page 3 
Security tries to be very open and he does not believe it does any good to hide information. 
Rakow said that timely re­porting of crimes is very impor­tant. He said that last weekend a student was attacked on Saturday night, yet she failed to report the crime until Sunday morning. "It's not that we don't want to hear it later, but it does lessen our ability to make an arrest." 
Several students questioned Security about available funds for security items such as lighting. Goldrick said that in a safety situation he believes that the money would not be re­fused. 
Hakow said presently he is working on attaining some se­"to help restore order," the White House announced Wednesday. 
Earlier, Bush ordered federal troops to help Puerto Hico, which was also battered by the hurricane. 
The president declared the 
U.S. Virgin Islands a disaster area, making the island chain south and east of Puerto Rico eligible for emergency relief. 
On St. Croix, a popular U.S. vacation site about 70 miles 
Eilsberg said that the covert activities of the Iran/Contra af­fair were kept covert because they would never gain accep­tance. "Those policies were mistaken because they were immoral, not because they were against policy or public opin­ion." 
"Leaders will lie to you in any war," he said. "Reagan knew what he was doing when he lied to us," adding that the secrets were covering up policies that could never be justified. 
Ellsberg added that he was disappointed at the verdict of the trial of Lt. Col. Oliver North. 
"The North sentence tells government officials that they are safe to do anything for the 
night which involves a student driving to the main gate and notifying the officer that he or she is parking in a particular lot. The student can then pro­

ceed to the lot, turn  on  their  
lights and wait for  a  Security  
escort, said Rakow.  

Students expressed concerns over the number of officers on campus at night. Rakow said two or three officers cover the central part of campus, two or three are in vehicles, one at the gate and hall monitors and mu­seum security are on duty on a given night. 
He said total staff is 105 people including hall monitors and museum security. 

A student suggested that the campus sell airhorns to stu­dents. Rakow said he is trying to find vendors who sell an airborn that is easy to carry and not expensive. He added that he would mind if east of Puerto-Rico,· fpantic tourists pleaded for evacuation, and witnesses said police and some National Guardsmen took part in the looting. 
"The private citizens around here are beginning to walk around with pistols on their hips, and there's going to be real trouble if somebody doesn't come in and quiet it down," Stu Ragland, a doctor on St. Croix, told an amateur radio operator. 
President. It's going to cause a lot of innocent people to be killed," he said. 
He gave an example of an oc­casion where public opinion in­fluenced President Nixon to abandon a planned massive at­tack on North Vietnam in November, 1969. 
"The attack was scheduled for November 1, and involved a total B-52 carpet-bombing and a massive land invasion of North Vietnam, as well as preparations for a nuclear war," he said. 
However, Ellsberg said, a na­
tionwide demonstration of 1-2 
million people on October 15, 1969 prevented the attack. 
Valadine system instead of the Detex system in the female 

At least two die as USAir plane skids off runway 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A USAir 
737 carrying 62 people skid­
ded off a runway on takeoff 
from LaGuardia Airport late 
Wednesday, landing in the 
East Hiver near the city jail 
at Hikers Island, authorities 
said. 

At least two people were killed, said Fire Department Dispatcher Adam Krause. The Port Authority also said it had reports of fatalities. 
Officials had no figures on possible injuries. 
One passenger reported that the aircraft split into two or three pieces. 
Some people were trapped in the plane's tail section and were being removed, said Coast Guard Lt. Commander Paul Milligan. 
Milligan said the plane skidded off the runway dur­ing takeoff and landed in the water, about 2,000 feet from the end of the runway, at 
11:35 p.m.. 

The Coast Guard said the plane remained afloat and 
was in relatively shallow wa­
ter, 25 to 40 feet deep. "They've got people in 
water in life rafts, some people in tail section," said "The plane is sitting at a 60­degree angle in the water with the cockpit down." 
A USAir spokeswoman in Pittsburgh, Susan Young, said Flight 5050, a Boeing 737-400, was bound for Charlotte, N.C. 
"We do have an airplane that appears to have gone into the water at LaGuardia," said Young. "On takeoff it went off the end of the runway and is now partially submerged in the water." 
The pilot tried to abort the takeoff for an unknown rea­son, said Kathleen Bergen, spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration in New York. 
The plane was carrying 55 nassengers and seven crew members and was being evacuated, said a Fire Department spokesman, John Mulligan. 
Mulligan said survivors were being transported to the Pan Am Shuttle terminal at LaGuardia. 
Coast Guard small boats and planes were on the scene, as well as police vehi­cles. 
Rescuers and crew mem­hers were trying to keep 

dorms. He said then all Notre ~_..:.P....:;e:..::t.::.otv~O::::..:..:ffi~Ic~e;;,:r__:G:::a:::::r:....;·y~R~ivc.:;e:..:::s.:...__.~::,.::;Pteo:;:,~lP:::.:Il;::,e....::c:.::a::..:lm.::.:...,::..:h.::.e..:.:s.::::a.:..::id:.:.·____J 
Dame students could have ac­cess to all the dorms and there­fore students would be hesitant to let anyone into the dorm without a detex. 
"The best security system for students goes lar~ely unused," said Hakow. "Ana that's door locks." He said many campus thefts are from open rooms. 
A few students said that sta­tionary patrolmen might help alleviate problems because stu­dent would know where to run if they were in trouble. Rakow and Hurley both agreed that this time of Security is not al­ways beneficial because bur­glars find out where the posts are and plan thefts of buildings. 
Schilder said he was pleased 

Attack 
continued from page 1 
dent for residence life, or Ann Firth, director of residence life, will decide whether the situa­tion arose as a result of the student's drinking. 
"The bottom line is the only time we call in students is when they are the parties that are arrested or assaulting someone else versus the parties being assaulted," said Doran. 
Phil Johnson, assistant direc­tor of Security, "We recommend that the victims of any crime or anyone that sees anything suspicious should call the police, whether it be the South Bend Police Department, Notre students can use the resources of Notre Dame Security includ­ing the free home or apartment security review. "We will help in any possible way," Johnson said. 
Dame  or  Saint  Mary's  
Security."  
He  added  that  off-campus  

Johnson said that students should always report crimes so that measures can be taken to prevent such crimes in the fu­ture. In this particular case, he said the Police Department could have alerted their officers to watch the particular house or area. 
Charles Hurley, assistant di­rector of Security keeps close tabs on the local neighborhoods, said Johnson. 


-----------~------------------­
Business
Thursday, September 21, 1989 page 5 
Economy continues to grow 'soft-landing' seems likely 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The econ­omy continuPd to grow late this summer at a pace ranging re­gionally from slow to moder­ate, while inflation eased over much of the nation, the Federal Reserve reported Wednesday. 
Analyst~ said the report indi­cates the Fed continues to at­tain its goal of easing infla­tionary pressures without slowing the economy so much that it is driven into a reces­sion. 
"It says there's some soft­ness. but no declines," said Samuel D. Kahan, chief finan­cial economist for Kleinwort Benson Government Securities Inc. in Chicago. "It suggests yet again the 'soft-landing' sce­nario seems to be unfolding," 
In a survey of economic con­ditions around the country, the central bank said most of its districts "describe the growth of economic activity as modest or slow, although regional variation in activity is substan­tial." 
The survey also found that pricing pressures have eased in five of the 12 Fed districts. while increasing only in the Kansas City region. 
The survey by the 12 district banks is compiled in the Fed's "beige book" every six weeks to prepare for the next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's monetary policy-setting arm. The next meeting is Oct. 3. 
Kahan said the report is likely to lead the Fed "to put monetary policy on hold even though its bias is toward eas­ing" interest rates. 
While growth was generally mixed from region to region, the survey results were consis­tent with the Fed's earlier find­ings this year. 
Fed districts reported Aug. 9 that the "nation's economy continues to grow slowly" and on June 21 said "economic ac­tivity for the most of the nation continues to advance" with "ebbing rates of expansion" in some regions. The economy was growing at "a moderate, sustainable pace" in the May 3 survey. 
In its latest survey completed Sept. 12, the Fed reported "consumer spending has been mixed, but most districts report strong sales of apparel and cars recently." 
In some districts, it found in­creased sales of women's ap­parel spurred overall apparel growth. 
"A surge in auto sales has helped reduce auto inventories over most of the nation," it said. 
However, auto sales were driven by incentives during 


"It's Dickas, Dickas, Dickas!!" Happy 22nd D! -from The Guys 
Peterson & Co. Consulting 
A GROWING NATIONAL CONSULTING FIRM helping solve business problems 
• 
Accounting 

• 
Finance 

• 
MBAs 


JOIN US FOR AN INFORMATIONAL PRESENTATION Thursday, September 21 6:00p.m. at the University Club refreshments immediately following presentation 
much of the summer and deal­ers in several districts ex­pressed fears that those sales would cut into purchases of 1990 models later this year. 
Demand for loans also con­tinued to vary considerably by region and type of loan, the survey said. Auto loans ap­peared to be a major factor in determining consumer loan growth. 
The survey found manufac­turing performance generally satisfactory or improving in the South and West, but weakening in New England and much of the Midwest. Manufacturing in­ventories generally were at sat­isfactory levels. 
It also said there was "substantial variation in the strength of construction and real estate activity," with sev­eral districts reporting falling mortgage rates had stimulated the construction and sales of existing homes. 
Only three districts -Boston, St. Louis and San Francisco ­reported labor shortages. 
"Agricultural conditions have improved over much of the country," the survey said, while "the mining industry has showed increased activity in the Minneapolis, Dallas, Atlanta and Kansas City districts in re­cent months." 

Professor named to AICPA board,changes ahead for CPA exam 
BY KENNETH SHEEHAN Business Writer 
A professor of business and economics at Saint Mary's College, Susan Vance, was recently appointed to the Board of Examiners of the American Institute of certified Public Accountants (AICPA). The nine member board is comprised of pro­fessors, accountants, and other business professionals from all over the United States. 
About 140,000 candidates a year take the CPA exam throughout the United States and its territories. The test is required to practice accounting independently . 
Effective as of 1989-1990, 
Vance  will  serve  for  four  
years.  Vance  said,  "The  
board  has  the  overall  re­ 

sponsibility for the CPA exam." 
The board of examiners has control over each of the subcommittees that compose the different sections of the exam. It has the responsibility of col­lating the various selections into one complete examination. The board also has the final verdict on any disputes that might ari!?e concerning the test. 
"I feel this is a good as well as an exciting time to be on this board since the CPA exam is going to change in 1994," she said. 
One change the board has already made is shortening the exam to two and a half days from three and a half. In addition, the practice and theory section will be given in one day instead of two and calculators will now be allowed. Also, different types of objective questions will be asked and a grade will be assigned to writing skills. 
"It will be interesting to see how the board will de­termine how to grade the writing sample and how it will effect the overall score for passing the exam," Vance said. 
Vance, both CPA and lawyer, was asked to be a part of the board of exam­iners after working two years on the business law subcommittee. She retains this position as she serves as an examiner. This subcom­mittee is in charge of writing the business law section of the exam. Since most of the members of the subcommittee are practicing lawyers, Vance brings the student perspective to the exam. 

Personal savings grow in Japan 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -The Japanese may appear to be the world's most avid consumers of luxury goods, but they're just as en­thusiastic about stashing money in the bank. 
Japan's 39 million households held an average of about $130,000 in personal savings last year, according to a recent report by the Bank of Ja,pan. 
Total personal savings rose 
11.4 percent to $5.15 trillion in 1988, moi"' than double the 4.5 percent growth in consumer spending. 
It was the third straight year that personal savings grew at double-digit rates. The figures count savings deposited at banks -and postal offices or held in the form of stocks, bonds and insurance. 

It was also a clear indication that the Japanese haven't abandoned their habit of saving a substantial part of their in­comes in financial assets. 
Japanese are more likely to put their money into paper property, while Americans are more likely to invest in housing. 
Housing is not counted in personal savings figures, which is one reason the reported sav­ings rate is much lower in the United States (5 percent to 6 percent) than in Japan (16 per­cent), says Richard C. Koo, se­nior economist at Nomura Re­search Institute. 
The habit of saving has ere­ated a massive pool of capital for Japanese industry, a foun­dation of Japan's powerhouse economy. 
"While the value of land in Japan tends to appreciate, housing actually depreciates. People know that their houses will not be worth much 10 years from now, so they don't invest in housing," Koo said. 
"Americans put their savings into keeping their homes up, because they expect them to appreciate in value," he ex­plained. 
Traditionally, housing in Japan vulnerable to earthquakes and fires -has been torn down and rebuilt rather than maintained. 

100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA Featuring Friday nighl seafood bullet~~~~!B "=....IC~ and Sunday brunch SEAFOOD ~ 219-259-9925"~~  Earn $20Q-300 weekly. Travel tour operator needs four students immediately. 1-800-828-8955  
Happy 21st Birthday, LIZ  WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812  
Why don't you take  ND TICKETS  
Smiley out for some  NEEDED  
Lizzie fries?!  .AU.. Games  
Love,  
Call TODAY for  
Laura, Peggy, Heather and Cindy  immediate CASH  
1-800-828-8955  

Viewpoint 
Thursday, September 21, 1989
paae 6 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor ...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor.. . ......... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor... . ................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor ............. Christine Gill Controller... . ..... Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Always report an instance of rape 
In light of several recent assaults on the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, it is wise to reflect on the responsibility of students act wisely on issues concerning personal safety. 
No cases of rape have been reported to Notre Dame security in the past decade. This is not an indication of the safety of the campus, however. It is an indication of the reluctance of students to report sexual assaults when they occur. 
Hapc is defined as an act of sexual intercourse with­out consent of both partners. If the act is committed when the victim is intoxicated by drugs (including al­cohol), deceived as to the nature of the act, overcome by duress or threats, or under the age of consent, then the act is rape. 
By that definition, rapes occur in the ND/SMC com­munity, but are not reported. Date rape and other assaults will not stop unless more people are aware of the problem and its solutions. 
There are measures to be taken to stop instances of assault, sexual or otherwise, and to help those who are victimized. One is to report such instances to a proper authority, someone who can help, someone with the knowledge and capability to deal professionally, sup­portively and tactfully with the problem. Hall rectors and rectresses, resident assistants, and security, whichever is the easiest to talk to, should be informed, both to stop the assault from happening again and to provide support, physical as well as emotional, to the victim. 
As it stands, little can be done about private assaults. A common fear is of public embarrassment, but, after an incident of rape, no one wants to cause the victim any more pain. Situations can be handled carefully and with respect. 
Students can also take preventative measures. The se­curities of both campuses are willing to escort students to the dorms or to their cars. Groups of two or three are far safer than travelling alone. Avoiding isolated or darkened areas is a matter of common sense. 
Anyone with the slightest doubt as to personal safety is forewarned: it is better to be safe than sorry. 
DOONESBURY 
LETTERS 
Administration should help protect women 
Dear Editor: 
In her recent editorial, "Campus Crime Wave Poses Perplexing Problems," Janice O'Leary thoughtlessly espouses a number of fallacious ideas about a very serious topic. How to hold keys and whether to buy weapons to ward off attackers are unfortunate but necessary considerations for any woman to make in an increasingly vio­lent environment. It is not, however, a fun conversation to be had over chicken patties by "innocent eye-lash-batting girls." 
When we talk about accost­ment, "inappropriate touching," and attack, we're really talking about disguised forms of rape. Despite what Ms. O'Leary might think, rape is not funny. Many studies indicate that a woman has a one in four chance of being raped in her lifetime. Some estimates which include marital and date rape are even higher than that. Even if one believes the most conservative estimates, a one in ten chance is still too high. 
The causes of rape are com­plex. A basic misunderstanding of rape is that it is a sexual act. It is not. Rape is a violent act. A woman's sexual attractiveness has nothing to do with her probability of being a victim. Ms. O'Leary's amiable sugges­tions on how to avoid attacks on campus evince this pervasive myth. Although intended to be humorous, her advice to "avoid showering and deodorant" and to "gain two hundred pounds" only perpetuates the fiction that women are "asking for it." The idea that a two-hundred pound smelly woman isn't in danger of getting attacked implies that a perfumed, one-hundred pound 

M 
1... 
!J 
-----==-~-' 
-·­
/ 1(2-" 

woman is. 

Furthermore, the more at­
tractive woman is implicated in 
bringing on the rape because 
she is so attractive. She is 
therefore wholly or partially 
responsible. This scenario is 
simply untrue. Just ask anyone 
who's been attacked. Ms. 
O'Leary's second suggestion, to 
"run everywhere," is also unin­
formed. Rape defense classes 
teach that running is not advis­
able as it shows fear and vul­
nerability. When walking alone 
at night, walk briskly with pur­
pose and awareness. 
It is particularly distressing that the author of the article is a woman. Hape is a crime that can happen to anyone, any­where, but women are over­whelmingly the victims. Not only are we the victims of the act itself but of the constant pervasive fear that we too will become a victim. For a woman to write about sexual crimes against her own sex in such a thoughtless manner is simply insensitive and self-defeating. 
Notre Dame must addwss this crucial issue with direction and decisiveness. In live years at UCLA, I had a much greater statistical chance of being raped and yet felt safer there than I do here. The administra­tion took positive action to support women on campus and address the problem thought­fully and rapidly. Among other programs, they established: 
1) Dusk until dawn escort service to walk students any­where within a one mile radius of campus. 
2) Evening vans that run from 5 p.m. to midnight to transport students to all the major study and living areas. 
3) "Rape Awareness" work­shops offernd every quarter to all students, faculty, and staff. Administrators were allowed to leave work for 2 hours to at­tend. 
4) "Date Hape" counseling centers and other counseling facilities for victims of violent crime. 
5) "Take Back the Night" walks where students and staff walked around campus at night to demonstrate community awareness and identify poorly lit areas. 
6) Free self-defense classes which teach the best methods to avoid being victimized. 
Unfortunately, many of these measures were undertaken after the proliferation of vio­lent crime on campus. I hope Notre Dame doesn't wait that long. Maybe they already have. 
Edie Hofmeister 
Graduate Student 
Institute for International 
Peace Studies 
Sept. 19, 1989 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'A man is never old until his regrets outnumber his dreams.' 
John Barrymore 


Accent
Thursday, September 21, 1989 page 7 
Navy trainees brought to ND 
COLLEEN CRONIN, ROBYN 
SIMMONS, PAIGE SMORON 
assistant accent editors 
Notre Dame students are all familiar with the military 
R.O.T.C. programs here. They have been established for many years. But six months after the attack on Pearl Harbor, some new military faces appeared on campus. Due to the national emergency, the University of Notre Dame was selected to host a Naval Reserve Midshipman's School. 
WOALDW*A*A 
THE 50th ANNIVERSARY 

In the beginning, only V-7 Midshipman trainees were sta­tioned here. In 1944, V-12 trainees of both the Navy and Marines made their mark on our campus. All of these trainees were college graduates who enlisted in the Navy and were sent here for further classes and training. Each session lasted about six weeks, and each session brought in at least 1000 new men. 
Notre Dame had to make some changes to accommodate this sudden. large influx of men. One of the most contro­versial changes at the time was the use of some of the dorms to house only Navy men. Three of the largest dorms. Morrissey, Lyons, and Howard, were switched over immediately. Badin later joined them. 
When the V-12 trainees ar­rived, Alumni, Dillon. Zahm, and Cavanaugh were also turned over to the Navy. NHOTC occupied Walsh hall, while the 'civvies' lived in Sorin, St. Edward's, Carroll,and Breen-Philips. Zahm and Cavanaugh were returned to the civilian students in late 1944 as the V -12 program was cut down. 
In order to a-ccommodate the 
Navy Men! 
GILBERT'S has a new store in the DRAKE HOTEL in CHICAGO 

Just two blocks North of AbboH Hall 
• 

While you studied and trained at Notre Dame you became familiar with the name GILBERT'S. You heard your superior officers talk of the excellent tailoring, of the speed of getting uniforms, and of other exceptional service that South Bend's largest store for men extended to Naval Offi­cers. You can take advantage of this same service in Chicago by visiting Gilbert's at the Drake Hotel. 
• 

Complete Dobbs Florsheim Naval Uniforms Officers Caps Shoes 
• 


AT ~HE _o r a ~ e NAVAL:~>A~~~:TAl LORS 

lB~?. •• 
CORNER MICHIGAN AVE. i ,~',,,,. :..:-IN THE DRAKE HOTEL ARCADE AND LAKE SHORE DRIVE ~ TELEPHONE SUPERIOR 2200 
in, many leading meat compa­nies assert they can promise nothing definite in deliveries. 
Beef, pork, veal and lamb, upon 
which the dining hall relies 
heavily, are at a premium, and 
can be obtained only after gov­
ernment orders have been filled. Since the University uses 
the staggering amount of 15 
tons of meat per week, it is evi­dent that local patrons will feel the effects of shortage." 
Another aspect of campus life that had to be modified in order to accommodate the Navy was St. Michael's Laundry. The laundry service was opened in 1934 to handle laundry for 3,000 people. By September 1943, they had to handle 5,200 bundles of laun­dry-4,000 of which were for the service men stationed on campus. In addition to this overflow of dirty laundry, there was a wartime shortage of em­
ployees at St. Michael's which 
added to delays. 
Although rumors of preferen­tial treatment in the dining hall were unfounded, the Navy did get faster laundry service. According to the Scholastic dated September 24, 1943, "Between the laundry and the dry cleaning plant, everything is washed for the trainee except his shoes. Naturally, inspec­tions mean that the service man must always be spick and span. Hence they are given first pref­erence in point of time." 
Because the Navy was new and different at Notre Dame, not part of the University's long-standing tradition, it en­countered a lot of heckling and joking from the students. In order to better acquaint the students with the Navy and its ways and to better the rela­tionship between the two, the Navy regularly had two pages in the weekly Scholastic. This newsletter of sorts listed awards won by trainees, gave information about the latest Navy happenings, and even had explanations for some of the Navy lingo. Not many ND stu­dents at that time -or now ­knew that "jamoke" referred to coffee. 
One of the major conflicts the Navy had to face while on cam­pus was inevitable: the annual Navy versus Notre Dame foot­ball game. But they made the best of an awkward situation by making an occasion of it, traveling to Annapolis to sup­port their own. After it was all over, one midshipman said, "Our loyalties to Notre Dame are second only to the Navy." 
For the V-7 and V-12 trainees, Notre Dame must have been an idyllic setting-a well-known university tucked away in the peaceful midwest, thousands of miles away from the dangers they were about to face in Europe or Japan. 
Naval supplies advertisement from a 
large number of Naval trainees living on campus, South Dining Hall {known at the time as West Dining Hall) was con­verted into a cafeteria. Previously, students and faculty had sit-down meals which were served by waiters. The conver­sion to cafeteria-style was a fairly big change from what they were used to. 

1 942 issue of Scholastic. 
Then, as now, students Com­plained about Lhe quality of the food they were served. Some also complained that the Navy was getting better quality and more food. While the rumors of food priorities were not true, rationing of food -especially meat and milk -had a pro­found impact on the daily lives of both enlisted and civilian students. The added number of mouths· to feed on campus made it even more difficult to get an ample supply of meat. 
The Scholastic dated August 14, 1942, explained the situa­tion, "...present prices on var­ious meats are up 50 per cent over last year. the highest in 13 years. In reply to orders sent 
One branch of the Navy on campus was the Marines. Since these men all came from different colleges, they received their share of heckling from the ND students. One Marine, taking this to heart, wrote new lyrics to the "Marine Hymn" to defend 
their loyalty to Notre Dame: 
From  the  halls  of Zahm  
and Cavanaugh  
To  the  shores  of  Lake  
Saint Joe  

We will fight for dear old Notre Dame 
Wherever we may go. 
First to fight for more and better chow And to keep our bulkheads clean, We are proud to bear the title of The Notre Dame Marines. 
Our day begins at early dawn 
And ends at taps at ten. They feed us what? and call it food 
And expect us to be men. 
From the engineering building To the dear old science hall, You can hear us cuss as we 
slip and slide 

Or see our comrades fall. 
When the Fathers and the 
Brothers  
First do look on  heaven's  
scenes,  
They  will  find  to  their  
amazement  

The Notre Dame Marines. 
The Observer Thursday, September 21, 1989
page 8 

The Observer accepts classlfteds ~;very busu1ess day I rom 10 am lo 3.30 p m al the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from t2 30 lo 3 p m. at the Samt Marys olftce Haggar College Center Deadline for next day classtfteds ts 3 p m All classtheds must be prepatd The charge is 2 cents per character per day tncludlng spaces
Classifieds 
NOTICES  V-Tapes all1988-89 N.D. football games. Please call Paul Roy 232­7602  NEED 4 TIX FOR Ml STATE! PLEASE CALL #3803  I NEED 6 PITI TICKETS CALL 277-9281 OR X2760. WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$  HAVE 1 MICH ST STUD FOR SALE OR TRADE NEED 2 GA AND 2 STUD FOR USC call 3095 or 1735  I need 3 USC GA's-call Jahnelle x2979 I have two(2) Michigan State GA's  
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard  NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN  Need two SMU tix please call 284­ for sale ...will sell or trade for MIAMI  
3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS 111111111!1!11111  Desperately seeking 4 MSU and 4 PittGA's Call Jenny at 284-4213  STATE GAME. WILL EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR USC. 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR PAY CASH. CALL TIM. FLANNER HALL, EXT. 1143.  4930!!!!!!!!!! NEED SEVERAL PITI GA'S PLEASE!! #2819  HELP A SAD UTILE GIRL!!I I need a MICH. ST. ticket for my 12 year old sister , otherwise she can't come with Mom & Dad. Call Pat at  or Pitt GA's ... Call Jeff soon..x3555 HELP!!!!!  
Word processing experience plus BA in English 271-0682. THE NORTHERN IRELAND  Need ride to Pittsburgh Uust one way) for October break. Need to leave Sunday morn. the 22 (after the USC game). Will help with expenses. Call Nicole 2784.  NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA OR STUDENT BADLY. WILLING TO PAY BIG BUQKS. CALL ERICH AT X1622.  HAVE TWO PITI G.A. TICKETS ANDWOULD LIKE TO TRADE  x1159. HAVE 1 MICH ST GA WILL TRADE FOR 1 USC GA CALL 16550R4224  I NEED 4 USC GA's for my family! Please call Bryan at 2285. Help! 1111 I need a student or GA for USC for  
AWARENESS GROUP WILL  FOR TWO USC G.A.'S.  my brother .Please call Steve-2285  
HOLD ITS FIRST MEETING OF  TRADE 2 MICHIGAN STATE  PLEASE CALL X4023  
THE YEAR ON THUASDA Y SEPTEMBER 21ST AT 7:30pm IN THE MONTGOMERY THEATRE, LaFORTUNE CENTRE. FOR  NEED 4 PITI GAs CALL DOUG at x1 065  TICKETS FOR 2 USC TICKETS CALL X2766 Travel Tour Operator needs  NEEDED TWO MICHIGAN STATE TIX -STUD OR GA. HELP TWO ALUMNI. CALL #4041  WANTED: USC vs. .NDllCKETS  WANTED TWO USC AND TWO AIR FORCE GA's WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL MIKE AT 2508.  
MORE INFO. Pis. call 289-2843.  tickets for all N.D. games-home  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  24hr. answering service  
TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 684-8793 LEGAL SECRETARY WILL DO TYPING/WOAD PROCESSING. PICK UP & DELIVERY AVAILABLE. CALL 255-1726. Student Comedy, Bands and  PART-TIME ASSISTANT COACH NEEDED FOR LOCAL AGE GROUP SWIM TEAM. 2-3 NIGHTS PER WEEK. PREVIOUS COACHING/SWIM LESSON EXPERIENCE HELPFUL. CALL 233-1366 OR 232-0589. Ride wanted for beginning of Oct. break 10/20 or 10/21. Going to Northwest New Jersey near Allentown PA. area. Please call  and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. WANTED: 4 NO/USC tickets. Pat Burns (317)848-1500 or (317) 758-4056 (nights).  NEED 4 STU. & 4 GA TIX FOR MIC. ST. X232-9857 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED GAs FOR STATE IT'LL HELP ME GET A MATE. SO CALL AND LEAVE A MESSAGE.  (213) 487-4161 Home 1213)422·2812 I NEED MICH. ST. TIX x1758 WANTED: 2 Mich St GA's You name the price Call Kevin at 3279  HEY! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU CALL JOHN X1761 HAVE 2 GA'S FOR NAVY AND 2 FOR PITI---WILL TRADE FOR 3 USC. CALL ANNE AT 2670. NEED 3 MSU GA's Have$$$  
coffehouse call 277-3653 Alumni Sr. Club wants you ....  Sandy at 3890. Will share cost and driving.  Help, the whole family is coming for USC. so we need lots of tickets. Willing to pay big bucks. Call John  NEED 4 OR 5 GA's FOR USC!!I CALL MIKE 232-5571  I need Mich. St. tix. Please call Allison, x2741.  Call Tariq @ X34 75 J need USC GA's. Will beat best offer. Ann x2830  
SAINT MARY'S AIDING CLUB!!!!  or Erich at x1622.  
CLASSES NOW FOAMING • ENGLISH AND WESTERN  FOR RENT  Desperate! Will give my first born  I need 10 Mich. St. Tix!! I have 2 Pitt Tix to sell Pat x1857  MICHIGAN STATE STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE. CALL RENEE AT 4817 WILL ACCEPT BEST  Need Pitt student tix (3). Call Nicole 2784.  
"INTERCOLLIGIATE SHOWING • P.E. CREDIT A VAlUABLE <CALL EMILY AT 284-5085> OR SHERRIE AT 683-3068 TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 3 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT. 5 MINUTE WALK TO CAMPUS. $350. 234-4153.  or any $ for 2 USC GAs Chris B #1484 HELP! Need 4 Pitt GAs for my family Call Chad x1132 Need up to 4 Mich St & 8 Pitt TIX Money no problem!! Mike X1236  NEED TICKETS FOR ALL N.D. GAMES. 272-9772 AFTER-P.M. TICKETS WANTED: 4 SO. CAL. (318) 942-9771, (W); (318) 942­7164, (H). CALL COLLECT. Pitt tix desperately needed!! call KEVIN 1636  OFFER. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'S PLEASE CALL 277-9281 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ••TRADE"" HAVE: 2 MICH ST GAS  2 Pitt stud tickets tor sale! x1804 Need USC Gas badly! MSU student best offer Kyle 1387 NEED 2 USC GAs !I Rebecca 4975  
Word Processing available. Reasonable rates. 277-6091 This Friday Anti-Apartheid  HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT THE "IRISH B&B" FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS-RING 272-7738  I need Mich. state tix--GAs and student tix for my wealthy girlfriend and her family. Please call John at  DESPERATELY NEED MICH. STATE GA TIX. CALL LAURA 284­5204.  .......:...--------------------------­Hi, I'm Rob. I need 4 Navy Tickets. Please call #1804 an give them to me.  I NEED 2 PITI GA WILL TRADE 2 USC STU ROB X1682  
Network vigil at 12:15 p.m. Every Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vigils at 12:15 p.m.  FOR SALE  and leave a message. NEED 2 SMU TIX-GA OR STU.  Need 1 Mich. State stud. or G.A. Todd #277-9469  Call Dan at 271-9821  NEED PITI TIX : 2 GA 1 STUD MUGHO DINERO • BOB Q x1409  
Admim. building LOST/FOUND  COLOR TV RENTALS 13-INCH, $50/SEM, $80/YR; 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE  NAME YOUR PRICE!II CALL MA TI #3489 MICHIGAN STATE GA TIC NEEDED FOR DAD. WILL PAY BIG$$$. CALL 1224.  Need many MIAMI tix. $ $ $ $ Barry 289-8417.  Need 3 GA's & 1 stud 4 USC game. Will pay finder's tee. Call Dave 277-3687 Need up to 4 Mich State. Good $$$offered. Kevin 1663.  AIR FORCE -need 3 tix. call John at 1665. I NEED 3 MICH. ST.STUD. TIX $$$CALL JEFF X2100  
FOUND: PR. OF HARD CONTACTS outside of LYONS HALL. Please see Sister Jeannine  DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959  IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 MICH ST GA'S CALL CHERIE X4969  Need 2 GA's to either NAVY or SMU. Please call Dave-#3313.  IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 MICH ST GA'S CALL CHERIE  FOR SALE!!I! 1 Michigan State GA Ticket. Best offer by 1 0 pm Thurs. Call Brian at #1804  
of Lyons if they are yours. LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH RING OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND STONE REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF FOUND. LOST: JEAN JACKET WITH  '89 ND GRAD SELLING '82 OLDS WAGON. GOOD CONDITION, RUNS WELL. NO PROBLEMS STARTING OR MAINTAINING. $1200 (NEG.) GREAT FOR SCHOOL, BETIER FOR GETIING TO & FROM. CALL CHRIS AT (312) 935-8368 AFTER 7 PM.  I NEED 3 MICH. ST. GA'S CALL BILL X4274 DESPARATE FOR 2 MSU GA'S AND USC STUD. WILL TRADE A PITI JOHN2207  I NEED USC GA'S!!!!!!!!!!!! Am willing to trade Mich St. Pitt, Navy, SMU, and Purdue or pay big dough !I call (219) 283-3571 WANT TO TRADE (2) PURDUE OR (2) AF FOR PENN STATE, USC OR PITI TICKETS. 717-339­3901.  4969. FOR SALE: STUD TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. CALL TONY 289­8020. HURRY! LEAVE MESSAGE. I REALLY NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S. PLEASE CALL BETH-X4852  Me and Adam need some USC tix. Seven to be exact. Call Brian or Adam at #1804. ($$$$$) have stud tix (2, sec 30) tor all home games x3202 I NEED 3 GAS (PREFERASL Y TOGETHER) FOR ANY HOME GAME. CALL KAREN @ 284­ 
CORDUROY COLLAR. JACKET  I need MICHIGAN ST. GA's. If you  4173.  
HAS A TEAR BEHIND THE NECK  73 Kawasaki 250 Enduro; runs  can help me out, please call  I REALLY NEED 4 MSU TICKETS.  
AND HAS A 1988 US OLYMPIC  great. Askng $300; KEN 233-9106  Nelson at x3278.  CALL BEN AT 1126.  I need 2 MSU GAs & 1 stud.  
PIN ON THE LEFT POCKET  I NEED 8 MSU GA'S. CALL BRIAN  WILL PAY BIG$$$ Call Shanl'on  
288-8527 OR KIM 284-4169.  Need STU Tx for Mich St  Help! I Need Tickets! I need 12  at 284-5244.  
REWARD OFFERED FOR  Sale I MSU, SMU, Pitt stu. tix. 271­ Will buy or trade Pitt  SMU G.A.'s , and a student ticket  
RETURN. CALL MARK . X3467  9714 Hurry!  NEED 4 USC GA'S. CALL 271­ Call Maureen 2674  to any home game for my sister at  PARENTS ARE COMING I NEED 2  
9830.  West Virginia University who  GA'S FOR PITI! CALL TIM 4043  
LOST II GOLD CHAIN WITH  NEED 4 NAVY GAs X3500-WATIS  wants to see a real football game.  
CROSS, sometime Thurs 9/14  19" Color TV, Microwave, size 10  DESPERATELY SEEKING 5 USC  Call Gina at X2690.  Save dad's JOb! Boss and family  
MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE  Fur Coat, Refrigerator. $80 each.  GA'S. PLEASE CALL CARl 2855.  need 2-4 USC GA or stdnt tix.  
PLEASE call Christine at 2905  Pub signs. 233-4935 before 10pm.  HEY NOW!  Need 2 GA's for MICH ST & up to  PLEASE call Pete at X1699-l'd like  
if found. Reward.  NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY TOP  HAVES: 3 Michigan State GA's  4 PITI. Will Pay. Call Beth 3706  to stay at ND.$$  
79 BUICK LIMITED  $$$.CALL JACK 2366.  NEEDS: USC GA's or student tix  
LOST: Minolta camara in a tan  85'000 MILES. VERY GOOD  call Dan at 233-8574 to trade  PITI or USC GAs needed  My life will end if I can't get Mich. St.  
case. VERY VALUABLE! LARGE  CONDITION.  H.......E.....L....P  desparately. Please call  tix. will pay top price ?<17g1 
REWARD I Call283-1863  239-7455 WEEKDAYS 9AM-4PM  NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER)  I'VE GOT FIFTY REASONS WHY  Mike at #2288.  
FOR ANY GAME. WILL PAY BIG  YOU SHOULD SELL ME YOUR  NEED 4 MSU GA'S-CALL MIKE  
FOUND: 4 keys on ring. in front of  MOOLAH ($$).PLEASE CALL  MICH ST GA OR STUD TIX.  NEED SEVERAL PITI TIX  AND TOM at 1694.  
....  Fisher Hall Fri 16SEP. call Patrick #2383. describe and  SHOW YOUR SUPPORT LOFT A HEILUM FILLED  JEFF 277-3998 .  call Marl< 4274  PLEASE!! #2819  NEED 2 GA's FOR  
claim.  BALLOON ON  HELP! I NEED 2 TIX TO THE  HELP THE NEEDY Ill  PITiorNAVY  
"KICK OFF"  MICH. STATE GAME. PLS. CALL  NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVY!! II!  I need 1 Pitt ticket  Please Call Vin x-2015  
$65.00 PER 100  MAURA X288-0885.  PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 !!!  I need 4 USC tickets  
LOST: Set of 5 keys. on g/18 P.M.,  BALLOONS-BALLOONS  Call 4364 Kevin H.  IN DIRE NEED OF 4 MICHIGAN  
on road between Stepan Center  BOUQUETS,ARRANGEMENTS,  NEED 1 OR 2 GA'S FOR ANY  STATE STUDENT TICKETS!!!  
and Power Plant. Call Mike, x2010.  PARTY DECORATIONS  HOME GAMEl! JIMBO (LEAVE  USC TICKETS  NEED 2 MSU GA'S AND 4  PlEASE CALL JOE @ 1849  
TEL-256-0062  MESSAGE) 289-6864.  RICH ALUM NEEDS STUDENT  STUDENT TIX BADLY. WILL PAY  
255-3667  AND GA TICKETS TO USC GAME  BIG$$$. CALL MITCH AT 2061.  HELP!!!!!  
FOUND: a watch in Knott study  MISHAWAKA.IN.  HELP! I NEED TICKETS  WILL PAY BIG$$$  
..  room. Kathleen x4930. LOST: Gold chain with cross in the Rockne. If found please call Colin at x1930. LOST: Patr of Prescription  ------------------------------------­TICKETS HELP Need 6 GA's and 2 students, cousins think I have pull  12SMU 2USC AND A TICKET TO ANY HOME GAME FOR MY SISTER AT WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY WHO WANTS TO SEE A REAL FOOTBALL GAME. CALL GINA AT 2690  NANCY 277-7593 WANTED: USC vs. .NDllCKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161  Help Two Brothers coming in for Mich St Need two tckts Stud or GA Willing to pay call Keven #2300  I NEED ONE USC GA FOR DAD I'LL PAY BIG BUCS!I!! CALL CHRIS AT X4050 CALL ANYTIME!!!!!  
GLASSES in a brown, felt case.  Don't let them change their mind ...  Home (213)422-2812  Need 2 GAs to USC. Have 2 Mich.  
Please call Stacy x4120 if found.  call Bill 277-3653 thanks  HELP, THE WHOLE FAMILY IS  St. GAs to trade. Evenings 239­ INEED 1 USC TICKET AND MY  
COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED  7998  ROOMMATE NEEDS A GATE.  
...  FOUND: BLACK CAT by the law  The Units need USC Tix! Call Amy  LOTS OF TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN OR  NEED CASH ??? Sell me 2 GA's for MICHIGAN ST  NEED 2 USC GA'S  CALL SHANA 2720!  
school. Call 283-2637 to claim.  at 2640. BIG $$$!  ERIK AT 1622  Call Laura x2851  Please Call Vin x-2015  
DO YOU REALLY THINK WE  
• • • • NEED 4 USC TIX • • • •  NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT  Have 1 Mich. St. and 1 Pitt stud  STAND A CHANCE AGAINST  
call 283-3035 • leave a message  TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN STATE  ticket. BEST OFFER. DENNIS OR  need 2 NAVY ga's. Will trade for  MSU ? ME NEITHER, BUT MY  
WANTED  ··••• I NEED 2 USC GA'S"""FOR  GAME WILL PAY$$$$ CALL BILL 271-8483  MATI X2371.  stud tix {any game) or buy. x3202.  SISTER AND HER BOYFRIEND BEG TO DIFFER. HELP ME OUT  
BIG$$ CALLS. MARK 277-6087  NEED: 2 USC GAS  WITH 2 GA OR STU. TIX. CALL  
SHENANIGANS is looking for  WE DESPERATELY NEED  NEED 2 USC GA'S  CHRIS X3460  JOHN AT X 1684.  
spirited bass. piano, sax. and  TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME.  CALL CAROLYN X451 0  
horn players. Interested? call  Help I need 2 G.A.'s for U.S.C.  WILLING TO PAY BIG$$! PLEASE  
Walter@ 271-0758.  Price is no object. Tara 284-5195  HELP! CALL X1338 ASK FOR  I DEMAND 6 stud tix and 2 GA's  CA LAWYER NEEDS USC GA'SI!!  
JENNIFER OR EVELYN  for the PITI game--Pete L.x1791  PLEASE CALL AMBER x25291!1!11  see llCKETS I page 9  

-
Thursday, September 21, 1989 The Observer page 9 
Irish women's golf playing at Indy 
By JOHANNA KELLY State Invitational, the Irish are in the 20-team Illinois State Sports Writer looking to better last year's Invitational last weekend. fourth-place performance at A number of the participating The Notre Dame's women's the Sarah Shank Memorial Golf teams in this upcoming tour­golf team will be looking to Course in Indianapolis this nament also competed in the 
gain more experience at this week. Illinois State Invitational. weekend's Lady Greyhound "We expect to do real well," Hanlon is remaining optimistic Invitational at the University of remarked Irish coach Tom about this week's match and 
Indianapolis. Hanlon. asserts that the Irish have a Coming off an encouraging Notre Dame accomplished its good chance at capturing the performance at the Illinois goal last week by finishing 1Oth title. 
ND soccer blanks Loyola 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Uame men's soccer team pounded lowly Loyola of Chicago 4-0 yes­terday afternoon in an MCC matchup in the Windy City. 
Four different players scored for the Irish, who recorded their second shutout in a row and haven't been scored on in over 210 straight minutes. 
Tom Connaghan scored his second goal in two games for the Irish, and freshman Kevin Pendergast notched his third goal of the season to tie Steve LaVigne for the team lead. Mitch Kern and Bobby Allong added their first goals of the season for the victors. 
Money. It's hard to live without it. I want to trade 6 Purdue GA's for FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT Ruth, We could make your life a little USC GA's. Call Matt 283-3374. Congrats on making your 
AGENTS

Tickets Grimm
easier. We need Michigan State College preferred no experience first hole-in-one! Wanna student or GA tickets. Call Molly necessary. For application try for two? 
continued from page 8 continued from page 12 
or Andi at 3885. I Need 1 SMU GA .. information call (219) 757-5757 The Ace 
I Need 4 PITI. GAs.. Ext. C-313 8 am-8 pm, 7 days. WANTED: TWO MICHIGAN Call Chris @ 289-9811 season for the Spartans, and STATE TICKETS FOR TWO ND 
ELVIS IS DEAD and so am I if I CONGRI>,TG TO THE IRISH A SPECIAL THANKS ARE TRULY gained 130 yards on 18 carriesGRADS. LETS MAKE A DEAL! 
carol find 3 GA tickets to the Pitt HELP HELP HELP HELP!!!!!!!!! OFFENSIVE LINE GREAT JOB!I! IN ORDER FOR THE 
CALL AMY AT 2640. against Miami of Ohio last 
game. 317-743-7208. I NEED TO TRADE 4 SMU FOLLOWING GA'S FOR 4 MICHIGAN PEOPLE: 
week. 
MUGGSY, CHIEF, BOOGER, 284-5022 OR 684-1304. FLEX, FAGS, SCOOTER, "B", "He's a good back, a goodSTATE GA'S. CALL HELP! I need your Michigan St. 
tickets. Call Tina at x4840

Help! Need 3 GA tickets to PittNeed 4 GA's for SMU: parents MIKE, LAURA, CHRIS, ANNE, cutback runner, and he'll
game. 317-743-7208. NEED 2 USC GAS AND 7 NAVY Thank you StJude, pray for me-J KATHY, JULIE, KAREN, KARRIE, present some problems for our are coming. Please help. Call 
Brittany 3821! 
GAS!!!!!! CALL JULIE X3141 !!!!!!! ROGER, JEFF, and MOLLY for an 
defense," says Grimm, "But if
awesome tailgater! I NEED 2 PITI GA'S (FOR MY $$$$Free Beer!! Free Beer$$$$ TOP$ Thanks for a terrific weekend in we take care of our
Take ride into Chicago on

PARENTS)!!! CALL CARYN 4830. 
You can come to my tailgater and ALL HOME GA'S Saturdays. Ride the WINDY CITY Michigan. You're all great, and I'm responsibilities and do our get it if you sell me 3 USC GA's or SHUTILE. Tickets $10-available 
312-920-9350 really glad I got to know you! 
jobs, we should be able to shut
NEED 4 PITI GA'S Special appreciation goes to 
Student tickets for my desparate at the Information Desk,CALL DAVE 283-1417 Muggsy for getting me lost right in him down." 
parents and wonderful brother!!! NEED MICH. ST. TIX??? LaFortune or call239-7442 for Please call Cathi or Kelly at STUD, GA-CALL AND MAKE more information. 
front of the frat, and for helping me $$$$$$$$$$$$ 
•4995 $$Free Beer$$$ OFFER MATI X4274 freeze the entire weekend by Indeed, if the Irish do their2 GA'S AND 1 STUD. jumping in that god-forsaken 
TAKE A LOAD OFF! Rent a locker job, the Spartans could be inNEEDED FOR MICH ST. 
fountain. Thanks for the memoriesNEED 1 MSU GA for Grandma!!! in LaFortune--only $5 per year. 
GAME. CALL MATI X4280 ~nd especially the friendship! for a long afternoon on
call Dan x1801. MICH. ST. TIX 4 SALE!! For details stop at the Information
$$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL MATI X4274 Mary Saturday. And you can expect
Desk, LaFortune. 

Donn Grimm to be right in the
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN Attention N.D. Students! 
VALUE CHECK COUPON BOOKS 

STATE -JAMES X1860 Need TIXX to any home football middle of things, giving Ezor 
Please... need 2 USC GA's!!! Also are still available. If you have not
game.Big $$$.Call John X1583 $4.50 Haircuts and his teammates fits.
3 Navy GA's or Stu. and 1 SMU picked your book up, or wish to TICKETS .......................... TICKETS GA. JEFF at 271-8309. Thanks!!!! buy a book, stop by the LaFortune I AM SELLING TICKETS TO ALL Information Desk. Weekdays 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH. ST. 1523 Lincolnway West 
HOME GAMES. CALL JOHN MAC. ------------------------------------­
9am­

WILL PAY GOOD$$. BRAD X3507 233-4767 
Pearson
AT 271-8309. 9pm. Weekends Noon-9pm.
PERSONALS 
THREE DAYS TO NORM! continued from page 12 
FOR SALE 
SEX

MICH STATE GA'S -BEST OFFER NEEDED & 3 MICH ST, HiAg
CALL 277-1878 Mike F will loose!!
STUDENT 

He is nothing!! Spartan tailback Blake Ezor
TRANSFERSCALL MARK 271-8860 The true god will rise up and 

ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE TRANSFERS says Pearson won't be taking it 
I NEED MICH ST TIX WILL PAY$ conquerhim!! or TRADE USC I PITI! #1 023 NEED LOTS OF TICKETS FOR OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS TRANSFERS that way. "It means more to 
MSU-STUD. & GA. CALL 1644 COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A HiT.Bass!!! NEWANDOLD him than anyone else on the 
CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: PICNIC ATHOLY 
team, and it means a lot to us,"
POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY CROSS FIELD 
FOR SALE!!! Two Michigan State •HELP THE NEEDY HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHRIS PAUL! Student Tickets. Will sell to the I need 2USC tix WE'D SURE MISS YOU IF YOURD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. TODAY@6PM he said. "He's waited a long 
highest offer thai we receive I need 2SMU lix GA BE THERE!!! time for this, and he lets you before 8 pm tonight. Call4215 and call 4364 Kevin H YOUR SKIN FELL OFF. know it." 
WERE DEAD AND BOILED TIL 

DO YOU HAVE A PILOT'S CERTIFICATE OR WISH TO 
ask for Erin or Alicia. LOVE, t.bass, Ag and the BR 
BECOME A STUDENT OR COMEDY NIGHT AT 
PRIVATE PILOT? CALL MIKE THEODORE'S Pearson, a graduate of St.
I NEED R.E.M. TICKETS 
MARY ANN HENNESSEY 

USC AND PITI TICKETS. Four 13th row. center tickets 2215. Laurence High School in the
I'm glad we have our chothers. PLEASE CALL Best offer. Call 3590 or 3897 lwuvewe, ROSS ARlO Chicago Catholic League, was a BRIAN AT X2322 OR X2376 THURSDAY 9:30 
Can we buy your 

Coli starting guard for Notre Dame 
NEED MICH. ST. & USC GA'S. JOE couch/sofa/chair? 
in 1987 on an offensive line
Please call x3442. THANK YOU: 
X1714. 
MIAMI FLIGHTS • MIAMI 

ARE TWO WORDS NOT SAID dominated by fifth-year se­
FLIGHTS 
ENOUGH;

I NEED MSU TIXS. GA'S AND I WANT TO TRADE TWO PITI Hi Jeff Round-trip airfares to Miami or niors. STUD. PLEASE CALL ROB AT GA'S FOR EITHER 2 MICHIGAN CP, 
MY ROOMIES-EDIE, AMY, 
Fort Lauderdale. Depart Nov. 22 X1617. GA'S OR TWO USC GA'S!!!!! Ag CINDY;ALSO MISSY, MULDOON, 
from Midway (Chicago); return 

JOHN,JOHN D., MARK, FRANK,CALL AMY AT 1265. Nov. 27 to Midway (Chi.). 
CAROLYN-THE NAMES ARE $239 for students, $265 for others. 
Notebook
ENDLESS BUT WORDS CAN 
Tix sold on first-come, first-serve 

NEVER TELL HOW MUCH YOU 
basis, and are non-refundable. continued from page 12 
HAVE MENT. THOUGH IT HAS Anthony Travel 1-800-7DOMERS BEEN DARK, I KNOW I'LL SEE MY SUNRISE. I LOVE YOU GUYS. 
that his replacement could also 
AG. 

be named to the All-America squad. WHO SAYS THEODORE'S Senior Bob Kula, who played DOESN'T ROCK ?! Come see 
the three games at left tackle
NO's Classic Rock Band. 
during Mandarich's suspension
PHOENIX-FRIDAY 10-1am! 
last year, will give the Irish de­fense trouble. Kula played left guard last season and received second-team All-Big Ten honors. 
"Kula's a very fine offensive tackle," Holtz said. "Mandarich was one of the finest run block­ers I've ever seen on the college level. He was so much stronger than the college players. He'd just push them off." 
Thursday, September 21, 1989

page 10 The Observer 
Orioles, Cardinals inching closer as pennant races tighten 
Associated Press the Blue Jays were beaten by within three games of first Boston 10-3. place in the National League 
TORONTO -Dwight Evans Mickey Tettleton hit his 25th East. homered and drove in three homer and matched a career­The Cardinals ·scored three runs and Wade Boggs ended a high with four RBis as runs in the first and two in the 2-for-29 slump with a pair of Baltimore tied a season-high second off David Cone, 13-8, to run-scoring singles, leading with 17 hits. Tim Hulett had stretch their winning streak to Hoger Clemens and the Boston four hits and Tettleton and four games and move closer to Hed Sox past Toronto 10-3 Craig Worthington each got the first-place Chicago Cubs, Wednesday night and cutting three. Both the Cardinals and Cubs the Blue Jays lead in the have 10 games remaining. American League East to one Phillies 9, Cubs 8 
game. A's 8, Indians 6 
Clemens. 16-10, gave up three Von Hayes drove in four runs runs on nine hits in eight in­and Ricky Jordan's run-scoring Tony Phillips hit a bases­nings. Jimmy Key, 12-14, was single broke a sixth-inning tie loaded triple to cap a five-run tagged for six runs on 10 hits as last-place Philadelphia held rally in the sixth inning and in three-plus innings. on to beat first-place Chicago. Storm Davis won for the ninth 
Boggs went 2-for-5 and Philadelphia's Darren time in 11 starts as the raised his average to .:~23, Daulton went 5-for-5, but Oakland Athletics held their third in the league. His average didn't score or drive in any American League West lead at dropped from .336 to .322 dur­runs. 2 1/2 games. ing his slump. The Phillies and Cubs com­
bined for 36 hits, including 16 Angels 9, Twins 1 Orioles 9, Tigers 2 singles, a double and a triple by 
the Cubs. After four innings, Jim Abbott scattered nine hits Jeff Ballard got his 18th vic­the score was tied 7-7 with a and Tony Armas singled home tory and the Baltimore Orioles combined 23 hits. the tiebreaking run in the sev­moved within one game of the enth inning as the California American League East lead, Cards 5, Mets 3 Angels kept pace in the routing the Detroit Tigers. American League West, routing 
For the first time since Aug. John Morris and Milt the Minnesota Twins for their 20, the Orioles won on the same Thompson drove in two runs fourth straight victory. day when first-place Toronto apiece as the St. Louis The Angels won for the 1Oth 
lost. Baltimore won for the Cardinals made an early five­time in 13 games and stayed 2 fourth time in five games while run lead stand up and closed 112 games behind first-place 
Johnson reconciling with Manley 
Coach, player calm after stormy relationship at Okla. St. 
Associated Press When Johnson first addressed dividual who had the misfor­his OSU team in 1979, he told tune of being out of position," 
IIEHNDON, Va. -Dexter them that one of his main said Johnson, who moved Manley and Jimmy Johnson, objectives was to clean up a Manley from linebacker to de­who butted personalities while program that had been tainted fensive end. "I always get a they were at Oklahoma State a by a variety of violations. good feeling watching him play decade ago, have put those "Dexter had this long, long for the Red skins." days behind them as they head frown on his face. So Dexter Manley was equally charita­toward a reunion in Dallas. and I didn't hit it off," Johnson ble. 
Johnson, coach of the winless said. "I made him give back his Dallas Cowboys, will be on the Thunderbird that he didn't pay "He's an exciting coach who sidelines Sunday as Manley for_" can definitely motivate his play­tries to help the Washington But, said Manley, "Jimmy ers,'' Manley said. "He can fire Hedskins win their first game. Johnson never took a a guy up, I guarantee that. It's 
The game marks the first Thunderbird away from me. I because of him that I got a time Johnson and Manley will had a Cougar and I never sold chance to play for the meet on a football field since it" Redskins." they were coach and player at Both men say they have put So what was the problem? Oklahoma State in 1979 and those days behind them, and "I like Jimmy Johnson as a 1980. they now hold a mutual respect. coach, but his personality is 
"We didn't hit it off right," ''I've always felt that Dexter real strong,'' Manley said. ''I'm Manley said Wednesday. "After and I were on good terms," stuck in my ways, too." I ran the 40 in 4.5, I was on his Johnson said. "I thought we Manley hopes to stick side. But after he found out, had a good relationship ___ I ex-Johnson with his third straight 
'lley, wait a minute, this guy pect to say hello and ask how loss in the NFL Sunday when has some problems here,' we he's doing. the Hedskins try to ruin the just didn't get along." "Dexter is a very talented in-Cowboys' home opener. 
Oakland, which beat Cleveland 8-6. California is 11-2 against the Twins this season and sent them to their fourth consecutive loss. 
Astros 7, Braves 6 
Alex Trevino led off the 14th inning with a home run, giving the Houston Astros a 7-6 vic­tory over the Atlanta Braves. 
The Astros kept their faint hopes alive in the National League West race. They entered the game in third place, six games behind front-running San Francisco. 
Chis ox 7, Royals 2 
Ivan Calderon and Ozzie Guillen drove in two runs each as the Chicago White Sox chased All-Star Mark Gubicza with a six-run second inning and handed the Kansas City Royals a damaging defeat. 
The loss, combined with first­place Oakland's victory at Cleveland, dropped the Royals 4 1/2 games behind in the American League West with 10 to play. The Royals have lost five of sev11n. 
Padres 3, Reds 1 

Jack Clark scored the winning 
run on third baseman Luis 
Quinones' throwing error in the 
1Oth inning Wednesday night to 
lead the San Diego Padres to a 
victory over Cincinnati, the 
Heds' ninth straight loss. 

The Padres' 23rd victory in their last 29 games secured their hold on second place in the National League West. They began the night five games be­hind San Francisco. 
Bucs 9, Expos 1 

Bobby Bonilla's three-run homer highlighted a five-run first inning that carried the surging Pittsburgh Pirates to a 9-1 win over Montreal, further diminishing the Expos' hopes for a division title. 
Rangers 3, M's 2 

Huben Sierra hit a tiebreaking sacrifice fly in the seventh inning, increasing his American League-leading RBI total to 113, and the Texas Hangers beat the Seattle Mariners. 
The Hangers won their fourth straight game, their best streak since July 20-23. 

AP Photo 

Winless NFL coach Jimmy Johnson of the Dallas Cowboys is looking forward to his team's Sunday matchup with Dexter Manley and the 0-2 Washington Redskins. Johnson coached Manley at Oklahoma State, but their relationship in college was something less than harmonious. 
JUST WHEN YOU NEED IT 
Tht' N;wy has 530.000 or mort" 10 hdp vou finish your las1 1wo \ears of collt"gt". 
Tht" Naval RcSt'n't" Offict"rs Training Corps (NROTC) Tw~ Yt"ar Scholarship Program can pay your tuition, t~xtbooks and instructional r~~s. plus gi\'(' you a rnomhly S100 La.x-frt"e allowance during your las1 20 months of 
roll~. 

Upon gr.~duation you'll !)(' commission~d a Na'"Y offict"r and t"rljoy the b('n~lil\ and opponuniti~s offt"rt"d, such as advanced ~ducation in anv of tht" Navy's high-1~ch fields. . 
NROTC tw~y~ar scholarships arc highly com~1iti\'e. Applications mus1 !)(' lumt"cl in e;1rly in vour sophomort" year. For more infonn;1tion. St't' or call: 
LT Dan Cochran 
239-7274 

NAVY ROTC 
You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 


Dillon Hall Pep Rally 
TONIGHT 7:30pm 
FEATURING 

Coach Barry Alvarez Tony Rice Dean Brown Donn Grimm Chris Zorich 


Thursday, September 21, 1989 The Observer page 11 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 

COMICS 

·-:;. ..· ........ . 
David and Mat:iofi~::Hi~J.Soiti: Meeting with Students Interested in Foreign Service 
:Jl®fl @rJSfbrgjw~lbTIJre~~ ®~$3®Q1111~$3(ff) ·JllYJ 
~....................................................................,_ Mis~issinpi Burning 

2:45 p.m.: "The Current Siltation in the Arabian Peninsula," by David Ranson, Foreign Service Officer, Office Director, Arabian Peninsula Affairs, United States Department of State. Room 115 O"Shaughnessy Hall. 
4:10 p.m.: "Biodegradable Plastics," by Dr. Peter Strom, Dept. of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University. Room 120 Cushing Hall of Engineering. 
8:00 p.m.: "Making the Dual Career Family Work: Perspectives from the Foreign Service," by Marjorie Ann Ransom, Foreign Service Officer, United States Information Agency, and David Ransom. Room 122 Ilayes-Healy. 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
6:00 p.m.: Transfer student picnic for all students who have transferred to Notre Dame over the last three years today at Holy Cross Field. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Fajitas Vegetable Pot Pie Grilled Bacon Roll 

ACROSS 30 Gun sound 35 Advance
1 Mideast native 37 Coins once
5 Sebastian, spent in Riga

Bruce or John 39 Kind of court or
10 Large barge pool14 Trademark 40 Third from the 15 Aptly named endauthor 43 Dorothy, to Em 16 Capital of Togo 44 Biblical tower 11 Ripped 
Gen. 35:21 18 Bull 
45 Summers, in 19 Novelist Paris PhiIIpotts 
46 Pix1e 20 Automobile type 
48 Rent-free land, 23 Clip in India 24 Salt, in Sevres 50 Ar follower 25 Mellow 51 Bankbook abbr. 28 Competent 53 Ski lift 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

55 Automobiles with tailgates 61 Tumbrel 62 Millet 
63 O'Keeffe's "Farmhouse Window and 
65 Toward shelter 66 Slightly wet 67 Concerning 68 Honey bunch 69 African foxes 10 Requ1re 
DOWN 1 Cover girl Carol 
2 What vexed ones raise 3 Field Comb. form 4 Extra payment 5 Not like a fish story 6 RAF. vehicle 7 Weight: Comb. form 8 Smells 9 More concise 10 Monoski 
11 Fugue finale 12 Augur 13 Benign bump on 
the skin 21 Kind of virus 

22 Lacquer ingredient 25 Aida and Arkin 26 West Indian tree 27 Penetrate 29 Musical composition 31 Applelike fruit 32 Basket-weaving grass 33 Repetitive learnings 
34 Lock of hair 36 Kind of meter or 
liter 
38 Oblique 
41 Type of jury 
42 Armed attendants 47 Mystery 49 A slick, with or without pies 52 Spaniard's plaza de­
54 Sculptor of "The 
Thinker" 
55 Exchange of property 
56 Persea or wicopy 57 Blind impulses 58 River nymph 59 Homophone for nun so Painful 61 Fiacre 64 Embarrassed 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1'\ro£'(, WOO ~ I: KIODING? 
ro N£.'182. GET,.._.~~'( Win\ SIE~LING M'l ll{\JC.K 6Ac.l( FROM MO£. 1\.\E. I.JGL'{ G~I.OOT 15 -mE. 511£. Of ~ 

WILBUR AND WENDEL 
~Mit\ ... 5\NC.E. r ~' F"NT 1-\IM, Mt.'iB"E. r S\\OOLD TR.i TA/.ICIN6 ro 1-llt-1. MA'IBE. IF 
Mf>-'<8£. Ht:'O Rt:t..l\7.£ ~T St£Al\NG HURTS PBJA..E., ~ MA.'ISE. 1-1£.'0 R£1\IRN 
l31L L vVA HERSON 
Mt.W,E. IV l'lll REMl.i LVC~ I ~\ 00 1HROI.JGI.\ LIFE 
W\11\ 11\£ Nlc.KNM4E 
JAY HOSLER 

THE FAR SIDE G,~rw LARSON 

"And now there go the Wilsons! ... Seems like everyone's evolving except us!" 
--ill
Cushing Audttonum 8:00 and 10:15 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
$2.00 ~lP((DW~((DJRJEIID IB1f TIEIJE ~TUJIIDJEWT UJNll((DN IB((DA!RliD 
Sports

page 12 Thursday, September 21, 1989 
Grimm lessens the loss of All-American Stonebreaker 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 

When All-American Mike Stonebreakcr was declared ineligible for the 1989 football season, many people thought the situation at inside linebacker looked Grimm. 
They were right. 

Donn Grimm, a junior from Scottdale, Pennsylvania, has stepped into the linebacker spot opposite Ned Bolcar and drawn rave reviews. Grimm espe­cially impressed Notre Dame fans at the Michigan game last Sunday, when he contributed 8 tackles to a defense which made the running backs for the Wolverines look like Nectarines. 
"Donn stepped right in this fall like it was his position from the beginning," says tri-captain Bolcar, "lie works hard, concentrates well, and doesn't make mistakes that will hurt us." 
Grimm didn't feel any pressure to live up to Stonebreaker's press clippings. 
"I was nervous in the Virginia game because it was my first start," admits Grimm, "But I calmed down by the end of the first quarter. I'm not going to try to be Stoney out there, I'm just going to play my kind of game." 
Grimm gives his coaches most of the credit for stopping the much ballyhooed Michigan running game. 
"The coaches put together a great game plan to stop the run," said Grimm. We had an extra week to pre­pare for Michigan, and the defensive line, the linebackers, and the secondary all got after them and shut them down." 
The emergence of Donn Grimm had a lot to do with shutting the Wolverines down. According to Bolcar, Donn's ag­gressiveness and ability to get to the ball are big pluses for the Irish defense, and the physical aspect of Grimm's play 
is improving every week. Improving on the physical aspect of his game is one of Donn's goals. 
"I have to be more aggressive as the season goes on," says Grimm "Most of all, I need to get better at attacking op­posing offensive linemen." 
Lining up next to experienced players makes Grimm's job a lot easier. "Playing behind guys like Jeff Aim, Chris Zorich, and Ned Bolcar really helps me out," professed Grimm. "They take care of their responsibilities and their jobs, and that helps me perform and do my job." 
Grimm's job as an inside linebacker includes extra duties which thrust him into a leadership role. He has to make sure his teammates are aware of the down and the distance from the first­down marker. He feels it's his job to keep everyone's head in the game. 
Looking ahead to Michigan State this weekend, Grimm appears confident that he and his teammatfls can get the job done. 
"We have to get the game plan down, go out on Saturday, and reaet without having to think," said Grimm. "If we all take care of our responsibilities, we'll have a great game." 
Bolcar agrees. "Michigan State has an outstanding tailback in Blake Ezor. We expect that they'll try to establish the run and throw a good passing attack at us. They'll try to run the ball and be physical up front, but it will be just like the Michigan game-whoever is more physical with their front seven will dominate." 
Indeed, Ezor is a player who will merit close attention from the Irish. lie rushed for a total of 1496 yards last 
see GRIMM I page 9 

Pearson is outspoken heading into 'reunion' 
Associated Press 
SOUTII BEND-Even the former Notre Dame teammates of Michigan State center Jeff Pearson have been trying to douse his fiery remarks against the Fighting Irish. 
Pearson transferred to Michigan State after the 1987 season, sat out 1988, and lig­ures to start Saturday against No. 1 Notre Dame. 
Just what he's figuring to start might be the question. 
Coach Lou I Ioltz says Pearson left for personal reasons and refuses to discuss the matter further. Pearson himself hasn't been nearly so reticent. 
He has said flatly that he didn't like Notre Dame and that, without naming names, he's out to get some former teammates. 
"I think it's only natural," said Notre Dame defensive tackle Jeff Aim. "I think if I went to some school, then left and had a chance to play them, I'd feel a greater urge to attack and play them hard." 
Michigan State coach George Perles tried his best, too, to cool things down. 
"lie has nothing but kind words to say about his team­mates and the university in it­self, but he wanted to go Slllnll­place else where he was more comfortable," said Perles. 
Interviewed earlier this month, though, Pearson was anything but kind. ''I've got a personal vendetta for a couple of guys on their team as a whole, and they know it," he said. 
"I didn't like it (at Notre Dame)," hn continund. "My parents were pro-Notre Dame. Notre Dame's rules were so striet I didn't feel comfortable there. I didn't like the school from the day I got there." 
The 265-pound Pearson, who bench presses 450 pounds, will probably line up aeross from Notre Dame defensive lineman Chris Zorich, reportedly one of Pearson's unidentified targets. Zorich weighs 268 pounds and also bench presses 450. 
"I haven't the slightest idea," Zorich said when asked about Pearson's remarks. "It doesn't lire me up anymore. I take it like any other game." 
see PEARSON I page 9 
Irish passing may be the difference against Michigan St. 
Last week in the rain at Michigan Stadium, Notre Dame quarterback Tony Rice threw just two passes. This week, a tough Michigan State defense may force Rice to put the ball in the air on more occa­sions. 
Rice completed one of those two passes against Michigan for six yards and a touchdown to fullback Anthony Johnson coming out of the backfield. His other pass, over the middle to a sprinting Raghib Ismail, was incomplete. 
"This is a typical Michigan State team that's going to be as tough on defense and as physieal as anyone we play all year," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "You're just not going to run the ball consistently against them. They've established a tradition with their defense, especially against the run, and it's ef­fective partly because it's different than anything we see all year." 
Riee showed he could throw the ball against Virginia in the Kickoff Classic, completing 7 -of-11 passes for 147 yards while earning game MVP honors. But that was three weeks ago. 
"We're not throwing the ball well in practice," Holtz said. "Tony Rice gets to practice at 4:45 on Tuesdays and Thursdays because he has a class and we're just not a good passing team." 
Keep in mind that those are the same woes that Holtz complained of last season, along with every­thing else on the Notre Dame team. Last year 

Greg Guffey 
Football Notebook 
against Michigan State, Rice completed 2-of-9 passes for 50 yards and ran nine times for 53 yards and a touchdown. 
Even with the so-called passing woes, Rice has rarely had to rely on the passing game, no matter what the caliber of the opposing defense. 
"Rice is the nucelus of the offense," Spartan coach George Perles said. "He's the one that makes them go. He's tough on the option and is really dangerous when he keeps the ball and runs down the sidelines. Every time he's got the ball in his hands, he's a po­tential score." 
Something will have to bend Saturday-either the Irish running attack or the Michigan defense. If the running attack fails, Rice must again prove that he can throw the ball with success. 
The Irish football team may play in Ireland next season. 
Negotiations are currently under way to move the site of the Nov. 3, 1990 Notre Dame-Navy game from Baltimore. The four potential game sites are Dublin, Wembley Stadium in London, Municipal Stadium in Cleveland and Giants Stadium in the Meadowlands. 
Last season, Boston College and Army played in Dublin in the Emerald Isle Classie. Pittsburgh and Rutgers will play there on Dec. 1. A decision is ex­pected in the next few days from the athletic depart­ments of both Navy and Notre Dame. 
,.. 

Notre Dame won the game, but the play of Michigan left Holtz, who coached against Bo Schembechler while at Minnesota, impressed. 
"I don't know if Michigan will lose another foot­ball game this year," Holtz said. "That's the best Michigan team I've seen in the six years we've been eompeting against them. They're on a par with the '85 team." 
That 1985 Michigan team went 10-1-1 and won the Fiesta Bowl by a 27-23 count over Nebraska. 
Notre Dame did not face Michigan State All­American offensive lineman Tony Mandarich last season. Mandarich, after debating the opportunity to box heavyweight champ Mike Tyson, signed with the Green Bay Packers. The bad news for the Irish is 
see NOTEBOOK I page 9 





