
-----~ 

So long, shorts
IACCENT: The jazz sound of In Cinq 
Cloudy and cooler today. Highs around 40. Cloudy and damp Thursday with a 30 per­cent chance of light rain. Highs 

IVIEWPOINT: Dating at Notre Dame 
in the 30s. 

VOL. XXII, NO. 77 
Associated Press the plane experienced some rible one," said Maj. Dennis kind of problem during his Pierson of SAC Headquarters
ABILENE, Texas -A mili­take-off roll, according to offi­in Omaha. tary refueling jet bound for cials who spoke on condition The plane, based at K.I. Hawaii with 19 people aboard they not be identified. Sawyer Air Force Base near crashed in a ball of flames on "It was toward the end of the Marquette, Mich., was en route takeoff Tuesday at Dyess Air roll and he apparently had no from Dyess to Hickam Air Force Base, killing at least 17 choice but to press on," said Force Base in Hawaii on a people, the Air Force said. one source. training mission with 19 people
Military dependents were "But he didn't have the on board, said Dyess Airman 
among the 12 passengers on power to get up for some rea­1st Class Beverly Foster. 
board, said Dyess spokesman son," added another. Some of those aboard were 
Sgt. Al Dostal, but he did not The wreckage burned for from Sawyer, said base spokes­
know how many. The plane had more than an hour after the woman Sgt. Anita Bailey. 
a crew of seven, he said. crash. The plane came to rest "We're trying to get in touch 
The plane's crew "never got tilted at about a 45 degree an­with the families now but it's it off the ground," said witness gle, a charred wing tipped hard, because there's some Vernon Wright, 19. "The first toward the sky. confusion," she said. "We're thing I saw was just the mush­At least 17 people were killed, waiting for confirmation that room of the smoke." said Lt. Col. George Peck, a these people have been con­
"I heard the plane as it was spokesman at Strategic Air tacted.'' coming down," said Skeet Command Headquarters at The sources in Washington
Jackson of Abilene. "Engines Omaha, Neb. said the plane was carrying were backfiring and missing. Military officials said they close to a full load of fuel total­It curved off to the left and were recording the bodies as ing 155,000 pounds, including its crashed. And then I saw the they found them. own fuel and fuel to transfer ball of smoke and fire go up." "Any aircraft accident is during the flight to Hawaii to 
Initial reports fowarded to bad, but the fact that there are some F-16 fighters flyingAir Force commanders at the as many fatalities makes it Pentagon suggested the pilot of (the crash) a particularly ter-see CRASH, page 6 
U.S. teens bomb international math and science survey 
Associated Press Buck Rogers of the 1990s is less-pessimistic face on their dent of the American Federa­Kingdom, the United States,going to be living in Seoul, findings, noting that almost all tion of Teachers, said elemen­
and Canada's British Colum­WASHINGTON -American Korea, instead of Chattanooga of the U.S. teen-agers demon­tary school teachers won't be bia, New Brunswick, Ontario
teen-agers scored last in math or Chicago," said former Ten­strated mastery of basic math able to deliver unless they are and Quebec. The last three
and well below the mean in sci­nessee Gov. Lamar Alexander, skills and knowledge of required to take math and sci­were divided into French-and ence in an international survey now president of the University everyday science facts. ence courses to qualify for their English-speaking samples. 
whose results "pose a serious of Tennessee. "We are making improve­licenses.challenge to our position in the "How many times must this ments on our own terms. We 
"We've got a long way to go Korean students demon-world community," the Educa­nation be reminded of its edu­are educating every child in before we turn it around," strated the highest overalltional Testing Service said cational deficit?" Education America," said Archie Shanker said. "The next gen-mathematics achievement
Tuesday. 
Secretary Lauro Cavazos Lapointe, executive director of eration of (elementary school) while those from the UnitedThe U.S. youngsters were asked in a statement, referring the ETS center for the Assess­teachers has already been ed-States and French-speakingoutperformed in math by their to repeated findings that U.S. ment of Educational Progress. ucated without math or sci-Ontario showed the lowest. 
counterparts in four other children perform poorly in "Everyone is talking now ence. You've got a terrible Youths in South Korea andcountries and four Canadian math and science. about skills,higher-order pipeline problem.'' British Columbia turned in theprovinces and were among the Cavazos called the situation higher standards. I'm very 
The assessment, financed by best science performance. The worst science achievers in the "a national tragedy," while confident that this is going to the National Science Founda-. United States, along with 
assessment of 24,000 13-year­other educators termed the 
happen," Lapointe added. "If tion and the Department of Ireland and French-speakingolds. survey results frightening and we articulate what we want to Education, was based on tests Ontario and New Brunswick,"The obvious conclusion is devastating. do, the schools will deliver." of students in Ireland, South "perform well below the
that unless we're careful, the ETS officials tried to 
Korea, Spain, the United mean," the report said. 
Nicaraguan hijacks Colombian airliner 
Associated Press Minister Carlos Disanti, who declined further comment. 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica -A The Red Cross treated some Nicaraguan Indian exiled in passengers for shock, officials Colombia hijacked a domestic said, but no other injuries were air liner with 122 aboard to reported. Costa Rica on Tuesday by threatening to set a passenger Public Security Minister afire with gasoline, officials Hernan Garron said the said. hijacker was identified as Al­
A passenger said the co-pilot vin Antonio Siu, a Miskito In­overpowered the hijacker, who dian living on San Andres Is­was carrying two orange juice land. cartons of gasoline with wicks, just before the plane landed. A public Security Ministry 
statement said Siu would be 
•' An anti-terrorist squad ar­turned over to Costa RicanSign me up rested the hijacker, and three judicial authorities and for­
other people were detained mally charged with hijacking Tim Hogan (left) and Kathy Habiger confer over in the Center for Continuing Education today from after the Ace airline Boeing 727 the plane, which officials in seating arrangements for the upcoming Junior Par-2-10 p.m. touched down at an airport Colombia said had 116 pas­ents' Weekend. JPW seating registration will be open near the capital, said Interior sengers and a crew of six. 


The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
Wednesday, February 1, 1989

page2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN
IN BRIEF · 
U.S. Senator Dan Coats of Indiana announced today that he has been chosen as the Republican leader of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Subcommittee on Children, Family, Drugs and Alcoholism. The subcom­mittee has already begun hearings on child care legislation and is expected to consider issues such as parental leave and drug and alcoholism initiatives. Coats will also serve on the Labor and Human Resources Subcommittee on Aging, the Labor and Human Resources Committee, amd the Senate Armed Services Committee.-The Observer 
A chuckhole in Tulsa, Okla. was so deep it prompted Bill Schreiber to stand in the street with a 10-foot pole to warn motorists. Schreiber and others lowered the pole completely into the manhole-sized hole as startled motorists steered away. City workers barricaded three of four lanes of Boulder Avenue south of downtown Tuesday morning after officials were informed of the two manhole­sized holes that opened into a cavern big enough for a car. A storm sewer cave-in apparently was to blame, officials said. -The Observer 
OF INTEREST 
Thomas Dooley Award winner Robert Lombardo will be at the Center for Social Concerns Feb. 2 at 4:30 
p.m. to talk with students about his work with the homeless.-The Observer 
Auditions for the Gong Show: comedy, skits, singing, dancing, and bands are wanted. Call Raul at X1597.-The Observer 
Volunteers needed to tutor South Bend children for the Neighborhood Study Help program from 2:30 to 3:30 Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. Commitment is for on~ semester. Other times are also available. Please call this week: Elizabeth (X3619), Jennifer (X1334), or Tara (237­9533).-The Observer 
Big brothers-big sisters orientation will be held today at 7 p.m., CSC. Please bring 4 names as references and car insurance information to speed the application process. Questions call Laura at 287-9644.-The Observer 
Billiards tournament: last chance to sign up in the pool room in the basement of LaFortune for tournament beginning Thursday.-The Observer 
Residence hall contracts for the 1989-90 academic year are due in the Office of Student Residences by 5 p.m., Feb. 2. Anyone turning in a contract after the deadline will not receive housing until all incoming freshmen have been assigned in July.-The Observer 
Northern Ireland seminar has an opening for one female student participant. This one credit course involves four meetings and an eight day trip to Northern Ireland over spring break. If you are interested call 239-7862 or 239-6444.-The Observer 
Los Amigos de Las Americas will hold an informational meeting about volunteer opportunities in Latin America tonight at 8 p.m. in the coffee house at the 
Magazine not at fault; it's all in how you see 
it 
The opinion expressed in this space yesterday disturbs me, because I think it speaks ill of Regismen--and women. 
Both sexes by now are familiar with the an­Coccianual Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue, which is due out next week. Every year at this time News Editor the scantily clad women pictured therein will 
unleash a flood of angry letters and protestsr--------------=---~
.......-. 
against the exploitation of women, male chauvinism, etc. But this issue isn't the prob­lem, and I'll tell you why. 
This Swimsuit Issue will mark the magazine's 25th anniversary of publishing photos of females in the latest swimwear. The.reason is as easy to see as the women who model the suits. It's not the pictures that are so offensive; it's the thought behind it. 
Does SI publish photos of curvaceous women clad in cutaway spandex just for profit? It cer­tainly stands a lot to gain. Thousands of sub­scriptions nationwide (for men and women, mind you) plus newsstand sales adds up, and this is just a single issue. 
Can swimsuits such as those featured in the issue properly be classified "sport?" I don't think so. Swimming itself is an activity; com­petitive swimming, e.g. the Olympic 100-meter freestyle, is sport. 
Most will agree SI serves its readers well,colorfully reporting on a variety of sports, from l-----~-LLL'----'--..;_____ 
footbl!ll to fencing. But what does the Swimsuit Issue serve, if not readers' interests? 
Let's face it, sex sells. There's no question sex helps Sports Illustrated sell magazines. It's made Hugh Hefner a millionaire. The models in next week's Swimsuit Issue will make careers on it. 
Glamorized and softened by the fashion in­dustry, sex has made men and women try to improve their "look." And that's not necessar­ily a change for the better. I've met too many physically attractive women devoid of person­ality. 
Is Sports Illustrated's Swimsuit Issue pornog­raphy? If the definition hinges on such nudity and explicit sexual references as one finds in Playboy and Penthouse, then no. Sports Il­lustrated doesn't even come close to the pic­torial trash in those magazines. 
The revealing bathing suits in the Swimsuit Issue are not the problem here. The problem is the way men and women view each other. Magazines whose pictures are intended to stim­ulate make us voyeurs. That's why publications such as Playboy are garbage; they make men see women as sex objects. 
But women also are guilty when it comes to seeing others as objects, not persons. I wish I had a dollar for every cheesecake photo or blowup of the now-famous Soloflex poster boy I have seen in women's dorms on campus. 
The only thing Sports Illustrated's Swimsuit Issue illustrates is how much we must rethink our evaluation of swimsuits. Does form mean more to us than function? Most of the suits I've seen· in SI don't look comfortable to wear, let alone wear swimming. Lacking comfort and practicality, what other purpose can they serve but visual effect? 
We are all to blame for viewing others as objects rather than people. Sports Illustrated isn't at fault for this attitude. It's only begun to cash in on it for the last 25 years. Consider that a capitalistic coup, business types. Men and women have been degrading each other long before Sports Illustrated ever went to press. 
Both sexes have been shortchanged by magazines that respect the body more than its owner. Men and women should stop complain­ing about exploitation and start working to change some of the attitudes which prevail today. Once we're able to look past appearance to see others as people, we can do away with revealing swimsuits and the magazines issues that feature them. 
CSC.-The Observer 

We need talent show acts for the Black Cultural Arts Talent Show to be held on Feb. 11. Call Tracy (X3879) or Agnes (X4011) immediately if interested.-The Observer 
CIL~SC Mexico summer program will have an introductory information session today at 7 p.m. in the CSC. Applications will be available then.-The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
................................................................ 1 Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
Happy Birthday 

Today_ is Laura s:s birthday. Call her up 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way ' 
Laura,we do expe~t to see you dancing LaFortune11 on pool tables tomght. • 


Design Editor ................... Alison Cocks Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kathy Gliwa Typesetters .......................... Mike Kolar ........................................... Andy Scblidt News Editor.................... Colleen Cronin Copy Editor ....................... Regis Coccia ................................... Mark McLaughlin Sports Copy Editor........ Steve Megargee Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Mike Truppa 

Accent Editor ............. Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ........... Matt Murphy Typist .................................. Sue Barton ND Day Editor .................. Kathy Burns SMC Day Editor ............... Sarah Demet Business Editor... , .......... Matt Gallagher Business Copy Editor .... Christine Walsh Sports Wednesday Editor. Theresa Kelly Sports Wednesday Layout .. Vanna White 
n. o..ner (USPS 599 2..COOO) is published Monday throush Friday except durin~ ClWII and vacation periods. Tile O!MerYII' is published by the students or the Univenity or Notre Dame and Saint Muy's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed ror S40 Pll' year (W Pll' semester) by writina Tile O!MerYII', P.O. Box Q, Notre c.., llllliaDa 46556. 
n. ~is a member or Tile Allodaa.J Pma. All reproduction ripts are 
~ 

Student Manager Applications and Job Descriptions for 1989-90 
Are Now Available. Pick them up in 
the Office of Student Activities 315 La Fortune Application deadline is March 1, 1989 
Wednesday, February 1, 1989 The Observer page3 
Jury problems mar Iran-Contra trial 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Oliver North's Iran-Contra trial quickly ran into jury-selection trouble Tuesday and the judge said there could be problems with "triability of the case" be­cause so many people had seen or read of North's testimony in congressional hearings. 
U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell said only 16 of the first 54 prospective jurors indicated on questionnaires they weren't exposed to North's congres­sional appearances. The former White House aide tes­tified to House and Senate in­vestigating committees in 1987 under a grant of limited immu­nity from prosecution based on his testimony. 
Gesell decided to hear argu­ments on how much exposure to such testimony ought to be allowed before a possible juror was disqualified. He said he would rule Wednesday. 
Indicted last March, the retired Marine lieutenant colonel and decorated Vietnam veteran is the first figure in the Iran-Contra affair to come to trial. 
He could face up to 60 years in prison and $3 million in fines if convicted of all 12 crimes with which he is charged. 
North's trial on charges of lying to Congress, shredding evidence and conspiring to commit tax fraud "arises fol­lowing a period of fairly intense publicity on television, newspapers, magazines" which will continue, Gesell said. 
Gesell wants to find 50 people out of a pool of 300 who have not been exposed to the con­gressional testimony of North or other witnesses at the con­gressional hearings. 
He quickly excused the first five prospective jurors after all said they had been exposed to North's 1987 testimony. 
One said she had the televi­sion turned on and was aware of North's immunized tes­timony, in which he detailed ac­tivities in connection with which he is now accused of crimes. 
Another prospective juror said she had monitored North's congressional appearances "rather continuously." 
Two others agreed with the judge's characterization that they had been "interested" in North's testimony. A fifth said she may have seen portions of North's congressional appear­ances "once or twice a week" during the time he testified. 
North's attorney, Brendan Sullivan, also sought to rule out as jurors anyone who in recent days had seen North's congres­sional testimony replayed in news reports as the trial start neared. 

AP Photo Fired White House aide Oliver North, left, arrives at other charges stemming from the Iran-Contra affair. Federal District Court in Washington Tuesday for the He is escorted by a security guard. 
start of his trial on charges of lying to Congress and 
John Keker, who heads the consider "how we're going to prosecution team for indepen-deal with this problem." He dent counsel Lawrence Walsh, said, "This relates to the tri­said he wanted to present argu-ability of the case." ments on the process of auto­matically disqualifying According to Gesell, most of prospective jurors because the first batch of prospective. they thought they might have jurors responded "yes" to 
questions asking them if they been exposed to North's tes­had seen, read or listened to timony. any part of North's congres­
The judge said he wanted to sional testimony. 
The questionnaire each of the prospective jurors was told to fill out carried a written warn­ing not to read or listen to anything about North. It also asked whether they know or have any connection with any of 195 people whose names have come up in the Iran-Contra case, including former Presi­dent Reagan and President Bush. 

Alumni Assoc. hopes to improve student relations 
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
Mr. Rich Daly, Assistant Director of Alumni Associa­tion, spoke to the Hall Presi­dents Council last night on improving relations between the students and the associa­tion. 
Daly, a 1983 graduate of the University, spoke on student's "impressions of the alumni as­sociation," and asked for the presidents attendance at a meeting with alumni associa­tions student relation board. 
Daly stressed that the asso­ciation accepts "subway alumni, actual alumni and 
Just send us a photo of your most outrageous dare from the fun, new DARE game. Your dare may win you ... One of three 1989 Spring BreakVacations for four worth Ss,ooo! 
OFFICW.IIULU 1. • ,..MAiliECUIAIIY TO EITIR Dl CLAIM PubiiCityRetease)wrth•nSaaysotnotrhcahOnorpnzeawardswrtlbevord No Jt~~D. lo enter marl a 3 x!l· or 4 xff o&w or color (no str!les) photo deprc!lng a subslltu!IOn or tfanster of prtzes One pnze per famrly •· Contest open only to Clare !rom lhe DARE game togetl'rer wrth your pflnted name/addre~ on aJ" x5' card U S resroents 18 or otoer at hme ot entry, except employees (and then tamllres) to DAM. a,rlllllrllk Cut.a, P.O.IIJ 1115, w.t,ert, CT 01111. ot Parker Brothers. tiS aH111a!es subsrd1ar1es agenc1es and profesSIOnal ono­Pnotomustbetheongmal.,..orkolentrantandnotha>~ebef!npubhshedorpubhcly tographers V01d where proh101ted Ta~es are ltle sole responsibility of the a1splayed One enrry per envelope All enloes must be recetved by 311/89 2. wmners Not responSIOiefor 1Hel1gJble aamagea lost late miSdJrected ma11 01 Enrnes Will be]U(]ge(] lrom amongallt>hgJbleentnes rete1>1e(] on or aboutJJI/89 returned pnze nohhcahons En1r1es t>ecome property of sponsor wtlh all nghts by PMC an 1n!lepenrJentludgmg agency on the baStS ot ortgmahty !0-30 pornts) tnctudmg the nght to e<lll publish aM use any photo Wllhoutlurther constdera­retevance to the DARE game (0-40 po1nts) composttton (0-20 pomts) phOto-!ton or payment to the contestant No correspondence telephone calls or other graph1C technrQue (0-10 pomts) 3. Three prms W1!l be awar(]ed Each wtH be a lllQUifleS about entnes w11t be entered 1ll!O. nor will photos be acknowledged or Sl)l'mg Break tnp tor 4consts11ng of a1r tra>~el1n con!lflental USA !rom mater a1rpo11 returnea By subm1n1ng an entry you accept and agree to be bound by these rules closest to Winners res1oences hotel tor 5 n1ghts and related expenses up to a andalldectstonsoltheludges wh1charelmal S.Tootlta1nwmnersllstsend rrwtmum retail value or $5 000 Wmners must s1gn and return an Afllelav11 of a sell-addressed stampe(] en>~elope by 3/1189 to DARE Wmners P 0 Box EhgtblhtyaML!abtltly/PubiiCtlyRelease(aMwmners trave1compan1ons aTra>~el/ 2925 Saugatuck Stahon Westpor1 CT 06880 
~$i.oo-iiiiii ____$1~5o-RiiATili 


WHEN YOU BUY A DL·7 CAMERA 
IUYaFujiOL-7camerabetweenJan 1. 1989aMOec 31 1989 ReQuest must be receiVed by Jan 30. 1990 RECEIVE a $3.00 rebate 1n the ma11 SEND 1) THIS compl«ted rebate certificate AND 2) your dated cash reg1ster rece1p1 w1th the pnce pa1d c•rcled PLUS 3) the UPC code !rom package 
MAIL TO: Fuji Ol·7 Robolo Oner P.O. Box117 Young Amorlca. 
MN 55319 
Name----­
Address ____ 
----·~-----Apt __ _ 

WHEN YOU BUY 3 ROLLS OF FUJI FILM 
~~93a~~c~g~~,o_t f~G~~~~~~~~t ~u0;~ ~~ ~:~~~~~~~~:~~~j~ .J~~g6·
RECEIVE a$1.50 rebate rn the marl Maxtmum rebate IS three (3) rebates per tam1ly, address. orgamzation or locatJOn SEND 1) THIS completed rebate certificate AND 2) ~our elated cash 
~~~~{f:J~~~~g~se~{Fcu~ip~~~~~2~1: ~~~~~;~~es ';!;t~~~:~~~~ 
"Manufactured for the U.S.A." Your rebate tS based on proofs-of­purchases sent at onet1me. 
MAIL TO: full Film $1.50 Rebalo Oftor P.O. Box 5675 Kalamazoo. Iolii 411003·5675 
Name ____ -----~----------­
even people not yet attending The association will be holding the university as members. a meeting in the Gold Room of However, many people don't the North Dining hall on get involved because of money, Thursday, Feb. 2 from 4:30­
but we don't raise any money. We are friend raisers not fund raisers." 
The Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation is the largest alumni association in the world with over 200 active clubs across the country. 
The alumni association "wants to know what you think we should be doing," said Daly. 
:.f~l_;
1 
•• ~ 1 ',1 

6:30 for the students to talk with the student relations com­mittee. Come and see that, "there's more to the Notre Dame Alumni Association than just plaid pants ! " 
New library hours were also announced. The library will now open at 10:00 on Sundays inmstead of 12:00. Extended hours in the evenings are also 
L'VE GOT TO CALL TODAY.' L IXJN 'r WANT 70 8£ 5TfKK I1V #OTR£ JJAM£/ 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND  from$149,.  
STEAMBOAT  from$213 ..  
DAYTONA BEACH  from$118..  
MUSTANG ISLAND  from$136..  
HILTON HEAD ISLAND  troms10T  

DON'T WAIT 'TIL U'S TOO LATE! 
CALL TOLL FREE TODAY 
1-800-321-5911 
being considered. 
Dates for student body elec­tions were announced with the petitioning period being Feb. 7 --Feb. 14, campaining the 19-26, the primary will be Feb. 27 and run off on march 1. 
Class elections will begin with petitioning March 1-3 with petitions due after break on March 14. The campaign will run March 14-19 with the pri­mary and runoff being March 20 and 22 respectively. 
Eric Straub of Irish Insanity once again spoke to the council about ways to raise spirit at Notre Dame sporting events. The upcoming Duke basketball game will have a 'wear green' theme. Porn Pons will be dis­tributed at the game and there will be free face painting. 
Correction 
An article in yesterday's Ob­server about a new student parking lot incorrectly at-_ tributed a statement. Mr. Don Dedrick, director of Physical Plant, said the new lot "cost about $85,000, which included fencing and lighting." 



The Observer Wednesday, February 1, 1989
page 4 
•

Quayle 1n Latin America to talk about Contras 
Associated Press of his Christian Democratic taking sides in the March 19 
Party as well as with represen­election or is signalling any 
WASHINGTON-Vice Presi­tatives of the rightist rejection of the recent truce dent Dan Quayle, on a mission Nationalist Republican Al­proposal put forward by the to encourage democracy in liance, or ARENA, and "a very guerrilla coalition allied with Latin America, will meet with diversified group of people," Ungo's party. El Salvador's outgoing presi­said a senior Bush administra­The explanation the officials dent and representatives of tion official. offered for Quayle's willing­rightwing factions but not with But Quayle will not meet with ness to meet with candidates of anyone from the leftist party leftist presidential candidate two political parties but not the battling for power in the up­Guillermo Ungo or members of third was that "it would send coming election, U.S. officials his Democratic Convergence the wrong signal at this point, said Tuesday. Party, those officials said. given the delicacy of the inter­
The officials, who briefed nal situation ... We want to go 
Quayle's stop in San Sal­reporters on the condition of down there and see what the vador on Friday will include anonymity, said Quayle's major parties have to say." meetings with President Jose schedule should not be read as Another U.S. official Na~leon Duarte and members a sign the administration is knowledgeable about relations 

1 
AP Photo

For Sl Women? 
Carol Valdez of Boston is seen last week packing tine's Day season is the busiest time of year for the Valentine's Day candy boxes for shipment to stores company, which will prepare over 1 ,000 boxes of from the Phillips Candy House in Boston. The Valen-Valentine's Day candies this year. 
with El Salvador said it would One official who briefed be awkward for Quayle to meet reporters said the trip would with a civilian ally of rebels also bolster Quayle's state­fighting to overthrow the U.S.­ments that he will be a top ad­backed government. viser to Bush. 
Quayle's three-day journey, The vice president "will be with a stop in Venezuela on privy to information that no one Thursday for the inauguration else has right now," and will of that country's new presi­relay it to the president, the of­dent, Carlos Andres Perez, is ficial said. Bush's policies on being characterized as a such matters as Latin Ameri­chance for the vice president can debt and the regional peace 
to get acquainted with Latin process are under review. leaders, hear their concerns on such issues as the debt crisis Quayle's office has not and regional strife, and show r~leased the names of the 
U.S. support for Latin heads of state with whom he democracies. will meet in Caracas. 
German firm allegedly sold weapons to Libya 
Associated Press said it found evidence that it 
was duped by another West 

MUNICH, West Germany -German firm into providing Prosecutors on Tuesday plans for a suspected poison launched a criminal investiga­gas factory in Libya, believing tion of a Munich company the technology was being used suspected of illegally selling for a Hong Kong pharmaceuti­rocket guidance equipment to cal plant. Libya, West German television The government-owned reported. Salzgitter Industriebau GmbH 
The ARD television network said in a statement that a said customs officials in Stut­review of company records tgart gave Munich inves­"revealed that they were tigators documents linking the deceived" in its transactions company Globesat to the al­with Imhausen-Chemie, a com­leged sale of rocket guidance pany suspected of playing a equipment to Libya. larger role in the suspected 
The report gave no additional chemical weapons plant in details but said officials Libya. suspect West German export Salzgitter said that among its laws and regulations governing records was a letter from the sale of military technology Imhausen-Chemie that men­may have been violated. tioned Rabta, site of the plant 
Earlier Tuesday, a south of the Libyan capital of government-owned company Tripoli. 

Wednesday, February 1 , 1989 The Observer pageS 
Soviet troops to be out of Kabul early 
Associated Press 
KABUL, Afghanistan-Con­voys of Red Army soldiers and equipment moved slowly toward home through the rugged Hindu Kush mountain range Tuesday, ready to fight their way past Moslem guerril­las if necessary, their com­mander said. 
Lt. Gen. Boris Gromov, So­viet commander in Afghanis­tan, denied U.S. allegations that the Soviets were conduct­ing a "scorched earth" policy as their last units left Afghanis­tan before a Feb. 15 deadline. 
"That does not correspond with reality," he said of the ac­cusation made Monday in Washington by Charles Red­man, spokesman for the State Department. 
In Islamabad, Pakistan, Western diplomats said privately that all Soviet forces were expected to be out of the Kabul area by Feb. 6, nine days before the deadline set by a U.N.-mediated withdrawal agreement. 
Spokesmen in Islamabad for the guerrillas, who began fight­ing after a communist coup 11 years ago, said four long-range Soviet missiles killed 70 people in villages near the Salang Highway north of Kabul, the main Soviet withdrawal route. 
According to the diplomats, an increase in attacks by Soviet and government forces in the past week appeared aimed at pressuring the insurgents toward a political settlement. The guerrillas have refused of­fers of such a settlement from both the Kremlin and its client government in Kabul. t 
The last 11 staff members of I 
~~~s!:isM~:~;~si~ft~~~u~~~ i ,
Tuesday and a Soviet airlift of food and fuel resumed. The capital's airport was closed Monday by heavy snow. 
Six Ilyushin 76 transport planes dropped flares to deflect missiles as they landed in the space of 90 minutes at midday. ~t. 
Each was followed by a camouflaged military helicop­ter dropping flares. 
Guerrillas supported by the United States and Pakistan control the hills and mountains 

around Kabul and often fire heat-seaking missiles at aircraft near the airport. 
They also have attacked supply convoys bound for 

Kabul on the Salang, which connects the capital to the So­ Non-Oval Office  
viet  border  250 miles  away,  
causing  severe food and fuel  Former President Ronald Reagan looks up from his  speech to  be given at the University of Southern  
shortages that made the Soviet  office desk in Los Angeles' Century City Monday  California in February.  
airlift necessary.  morning. The former President was  working  on  a  

Holy _jL 
Vocation
CrossJ~ 
Discernment
Priests& Brothers Retreat 
For those who are considering a vocation to priesthood and religious life in Holy Cross as a possibility. 
Activist claims he saw Tower drunk and with women other than his wife 
.. 

Associated Press designate John Tower publicly the witness that he failed to inebriated and in the company provide specifics to support his 
WASHINGTON-A conserva­of women other than his wife. allegation.tive activist testified Tuesday But members of the Senate "I have made enough per-he has "on a number of occa­Armed Services Committee sonal observations of this man sions'' seen Defense Secretary-said after a closed session with here in Washington to have 
Founders of the University of Notre Dame,Holy Cross Priests & Brothers serve in a variety of worldwide mini­stries: schools, foreign missions, parishes and auxiliary services. 
PURPOSE: To meet and pray with others who are also searching in a supportive atmosphere 
DISCERNMENT: Is the art of finding God's will; it is the process of discovering what we are called to be. 
PLACE: Fatima Retreat Center--Notre Dame campus DATE: Begms Friday, February lOth at 7:30PM 
Ends Saturday, February 11th at 9:00PM COST: No cost REGISTRATION: Call Vocation Office at 239-6385 
ADWORKS 
.----------------------.· serious reservations about his 
STUDENT
I 
ALUMNI

I 
l 
I ~ RECEPTION 
Come mingle 

I . 
with I Ia 
Alumni in the Gold Room 
l d of 
North Dining Hall 

1 nlb. 4:45-6:30 Febuary 2, 1989 
Sponsored by SARG and ND Alumni Association 
The Campus Marketing Inc. Spring Break trip to 
oAW!VABEAel! 
will have sign-ups Wednesday, February 1st at 7:30 in Room 118 
Nieuwland Science Hall Join the party--overSOpeople have signed up already TRIP INCLUDES: 
* 
8 sunny days/7 party filled nights at an oceanfront hotel 

* 
Round trip transportation 

* 
Free pool parties with refreshments every night 


IILL Tlllcf IIAIO 
!!OREf"ORJ«ff $205.00 

moral character," Paul Weyrich told the Senate panel, which is conducting Tower's confirmation hearing. 
Tower refused to comment on the allegations or executive session as he left the committee office. A closed session is scheduled Wednesday morning followed by an open session on conflict of interest. 
Weyrich's comments prompted quick criticism from Sen. Malcolm Wallop, R-Wyo., who complained about "in­

nuendoes  . . .  and  insinua­ 
tions"  against  the  former  
Texas senator.  

Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia, the committee chairman, sug­gested that any further discus­sion of Tower's personal fitness take place in a previously scheduled afternoon session that was closed to the public. 
Senators emerging from that session sounded unimpressed. 
"I heard nothing that you didn't hear in the open session. I didn't hear anything per­suasive to me," Wallop said. 
Sen. Alan Dixon, D-Ill., said, "As an old trial lawyer, I would have to say that most of what I heard has to fall into the hear­say category, even given the high motives of the witness," said Sen. Alan Dixon, D-Ill. 
Weyrich was unclear whe­ther Tower was married on the occasions he saw him, accor­ding to Dixon. 
The Observer 


Handwriting can help determine job 
pageS 
Cigarette vending threatened by bill 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-The sale of tobacco products from vending machines would be prohibited in shopping malls, fast food res­taurants and other places fre­quented by young people under a bill approved Tuesday by an Indiana House committee. 
By a 10-0 vote, the House Family and Children Commit­tee approved a compromise version of House Bill 1505. The measure now advances to the House floor, where the bill could be changed. 
As introduced, the bill called for an outright ban on the sale of cigarettes through vending machines. Owners of vending machines objected, saying the~ industry could be wiped out. 
I Negotiations involving health officials and representa­tives of vendors yielded a com­
l 
promise to permit vending ma­
I 
I chine sales of cigarettes in restricted areas such as taverns, the bar areas of res­taurants and in industrial or of­fice buildings customarily fre­quented by people over 18. At the same time, the bill was amended so it applies to all tobacco products, including smokeless tobacco and cigars, instead of just to cigarettes. "Neither side was really 
Associated Press 
BATTLE GROUND, Ind. ­Businesses could. learn a lot about prospective employees by watching the job applicants' P's and Q's, a handwriting analyst says. 
Laura Clavio, who operates Associated Handwriting Con­sultants, says more and more businesses are seeking the ser­vices of graphoanalysts to , screen job applicants. 
Clavio says that by looking at samples of handwriting she can tell if a job applicant is 
Crash 
continued from page 1 
across the Pacific. The Air Force said the KC­135A tanker crashed at 12: 10 
p.m. near the south end of the 
Dyess runway, near U.S. High­way m about six miles south­west of Abilene. 
The maintenance record for the plane, powered by four Pratt & Whitney jet engines, was not yet available, Peck said. 
There is no ejection system on the plane, built in 1963, said Peck. 
It was the second crash at Dyess in less than three months. A B-1B bomber crashed there Nov. 8. The four­mao crew safely bailed out. 
The KC-135, dubbed the Stratotanker, is the backbone of the Air Force's refueling fleet. 
The aircraft, a military spin­off of the Boeing 707, normally takes a crew of four or five. It can carry a sizeable load of passengers even when carry­ing fuel. 
A KC-135 crashed Oct. 11, 1988, at Wurtsmith Air Base near Oscoda, Mich. That plane, also based at Sawyer, crashed and burst into flames on lan­ding, killing six and injuring 10. 
happy about it, so I guess that's an indication we have someth­ing here," said Rep. Donald Dean, R-Bloomfield, the bill's sponsor. "We've got to a point where we haven't eliminated an industry altogether but we can regulate it some." 
As it stands after the changes by the committee, the bill would make it a Class C infrac­tion to sell tobacco products in vending machines in areas where people under 18 cus­tomarily visit or have un­restricted access. 
Vending sales would'be per­mitted in restricted areas or in other areas where the owner or an employee of the business could operate the machine, thus preventing a youngster from walking up and purchas­ing cigarettes. 
The maximum penalty for a Class C infraction is a $500 fine. 
"Our goal was to impede access to tobacco products by minors, and I think largely we have done that," said Mike Abrams of the Indiana State Medical Association, which supported the bill. 
Stanley Nice of the Indiana Vending Council said he could live with most of the comprO<­mise language, but he fears further restrictions that might be imposed on his industry later. 
honest or deceptive, outgoing or withdrawn. 
"If you're applying for a job, you're going to make the best impression you can," she said. 
"For instance, someone who needs a lot of variety and change and physical activity is not going to be happy as a bank teller," she said. "We can see things in handwriting that can't be asked in a question." 
Clavio received her training in graphology from the Chicago-based International Graphoanalysis Society, as did her three associates, Kim 
Call

Shipp of Lafayette, Connie 
Newell of West Lafayette and Geneva Todd of Delphi. 
284-5525 
Todd used graphology for six years to help her husband 
And Wish
screen salesmen applicants at the car dealership the couple once owned. 
Yvette 

"He did not do any hiring without my looking at their 
A Happy 
handwriting," she said. 
"You want to be sure the per­
Birthday!
son is outgoing enough to meet with people and be interested in people," Todd said. I.Liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 


The Function's of Music in Shakespeare's Plays 
Othello and Twelfth Night 
lecture by 
MIRIAM GILBERT 
(Department of English, The University of Iowa) Hesburgh Library Auditorium Thursday, February 2, 8:00 p.m. Professor Gilbert's lecture will be illustrated by presentation of selected scenes from the plays. 
Wednesday, February 1, 1989 

String him up 
A Galveston Police Dept. motorcycle officer is shot timate over 300,000 people will attend the 1989 Mardi with canned string by a young Mardi Gras spectator Gras in Galveston. as he attempts to clear a parade route. Officials es­
~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Wednesday, February 1, 1989 
Stars and mud 
Leftist students trample an American flag during an anti-U.S. demonstration in front of the American em­bassy in Manila Tuesday. More than 500 students, belonging to the militant League of Filipino Students, 
The Observer page 7 

SECURITY BEAT 
THURS., JAN. 19 

4:30 p.m. A Holy Cross resident reported the theft of his bookbag and contents from the bookrack in the lobby of South Dining Hall sometime between II:30 a.m. and 12:30 
p.m. Losses estimated at $40. 
7:05 p.m. An off-campus student reported that his vehicle had been broken into while parked in White Field, sometime between 
9:30 a.m. and 7:05 p.m..Total losses and damages estimated at $400. 
I :30 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of his tote bag and contents from the bookrack in the lobby of South Dining Hall sometime around I p.m. Estimated value of losses, unknown. 
8:07 a.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of her knapsack from a cubicle in the front lobby of the bookstore sometime between 4-5 p.m. on 1/18. Estimated value of losses unknown. 
FRIDAY, JAN. 20 

12:44 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of her wallet from her smock while working on the first floor of Sorin Hall, sometime between 9:30 a.m. and 10 a.m. on 1/18. Estimated loss is $137. 
12:20 a.m. A South Bend resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for travelling 47 mph in a 25 mph zone on Juniper road. 
SAT., JAN. 21 

II: 12 p.m. A South Bend resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for travelling 45 mph in a 25 mph zone on Juniper road. 
4:30 p.m. A Carroll Hall resident reported the theft of several items from his unlocked
AP Photo 

dorm room sometime between 10:30 am and 
2:30 p.m. Losses estimated at $181. 
I :06 p.m. A Chicago resident reported the
gathered at the embassy in commemoration of the 
theft of her wallet and its contents from her
"1st Quarter Storm," the height of student unrest 
bleacher seat in the JACC sometime during 
the Syracuse/Notre Dame basketball game. Estimated loss is unknown.
against Americans in the late 60's. 
Try out for  •  
College  •  
Week  
on  •  
•  Wheel  
of  
Fortune  
TV's Wheel of Fortune  
Special College Week Auditions  
FridayFebruary 3  
1:00 P.M.  
Theodore's  
LaFortune Student Center  
Interviews Limited to the First 100 Students  •  
••  Please Bring Student I.D. Cards Interviews Take Approximately 2 12 Hours  ••  

SUNDAY, JAN. 22 
6:10 pm !0:15am A South Dining Hall manager reported vandalism done to two doors at the South Dining Hall sometime between 7 p.m., 1/20 and 8 a.m., 1/21. Estimated value of damage unknown. 
MONDAY, JAN. 23 
6:35 a.m. An Elkhart resident's vehicle was struck by a hit and run vehicle on US 33. Estimated cost of damages unknown. 
TUESDAY, JAN. 24 
8:40 p.m. A Granger resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for travelling 47 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper road. 
WED., JAN.25 
2 p.m. A Carroll Hall resident reported that his bookbag and contents were stolen from the bookrack at the South Dining Hall sometime between 12 and 12:45 p.m. Losses estimated at $149. 
8: 15 p.m. A New Jersey resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for travelling 51 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper road. 
THURS. JAN. 26 
I p.m. Several Notre Dame students reeorted that their bookbags and contents were stolen from the bookrack at South Dining Hall sometime between 12:15 and 
I:05 p.m. Their losses estimated at $300. 
3:45 a.m. A St. Mary's resident was arrested by Notre Dame Security for driving under the influence on US 33 and St. Mary's road. 
FRIDAY, JAN. 27 
4:21 p.m. An off-campus student reported that her vehicle was broken into while in the C-1 lot between 12:30 and 2:45 p.m. Losses estimated at $110. 
6:15 p.m. Several Notre Dame students reported that items were stolen from outside 
of a racquetball court in the JACC between 
4:45 and 6:15 p.m. Losses estimated at $225. 
SAT., JAN. 28 
2 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported that his bookbag and contents were stolen from the bookrack in the lobby of South Dining Hall sometime between 12:20 and 12:45, 1/25. Losses estimated at $65. 
SUNDAY, JAN. 29 
12:45 p.m. A Walsh Hall Resident reported that her bookbag and contents were stolen from South Dining hall sometime after I p.m., 1/27. Losses unknown. 
7 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported the theft of several iteijlS from his bookbag which was in the bookrack in South Dining Hall sometime around 9:30 a.m. on 1/27. Losses estimated at $70. 
5:51 p.m. A St. Mary's student reported that her purse and contents were stolen from a party in Flanner Hall sometime before 
12:40 am. Losses unknown. 
New Soviet crime rate figures out 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -The Soviet gov­ernment, in keeping with a new policy to disclose crime statis­tics, said Tuesday that 111 mur­ders were committed in the en­tire country in January, including one policeman killed in the line of duty. 
Militia Col. Yuri Ar­shenevsky, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry, was quoted by official news agency Tass as saying previously clas­sified crime statistics hen­ceforth "will be available for everyone." 
The first figures released as part of the new policy showed 93 of the 111 January murders had been solved and that most "were committed at home due to drunkenness and jealousy," Tass said. 
In January 1988, New York City reported 152 cases of mur­der and non-negligent manslaughter. 
Tass said 137 holdups were committed in January 1989, only 61 of which were solved. The report added that drivers of unregistered taxis increas­ingly are being victimized. 
"One militia serviceman was killed this month when per­forming his official duty of maintaining public order, and 12 were injured," the report said. 

page 8 New health policy shocks British 

Associated Press 
LONDON-The government Tuesday proposed the biggest shakeup in Britain's free health system, boosting private health insurance and allowing big hospitals to charge fees. 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, in a statement intro­ducing a government policy document, called the plan the "most far-reaching reform of the National Health Service in its 40-year history." 
The opposition Labor Party, which introduced free health care after World War II, ac­cused her Conservative gov­ernment of setting out to wreck the system. 
The changes will be drafted later as a parliamentary bill that is assured of passage by the Conservative-dominated Parliament. They are expected to be in operation within the next three years. 
The plan was seen by some as an attempt to borrow from the American health system, with its emphasis on private care, without increasing spend­ing. 
"In other words, excellent care, eventually, for perhaps as much as three-tenths of the population, but deteriorating health care for the remainder," said Dr. David Owen, a physician who leads 
Threats of tampering worry FBI 
Associated Press 
GARY, Ind. -A series of anonymous letters threatening the injection of poisons into various food products prompted the FBI to offer a $25,000 reward Tuesday for in­formation leading to an arrest and conviction. 
A total of 56 letters have been mailed to major American cor­porations between Oct. 1986 and June 1988 threatening to in­ject rat poison and cyanide in such products as baby food, toothpaste, baking supplies, juices and candy, said agent Charles Grelecki. 
uct tampering have been con-e nected to the letters, said e 
mailed in San Diego, Calif., one e 
Grelecki.  •  
Most of the letters car ried a  •  
Gary  postmark.  Two  were  

from a suburban Chicago area e and three from Michigan City, e ~~d. • 
FBI analysts report all the •• 
letters were hand-written in ink byoneperson,probablyawhite e 
male between the ages of 35 • and 50. The analysts say the writer may be a radical con-e sumer activist who intends no e 
harmandisattemptingtogoad e 
companies into using better • tamper-resistant packaging. e 
If that is the case, the FBI "fully understands the writer's e motive," but cannot condone e his method, Grelecki said. • 
Thehageninftasked tB:nyonelwthdo •• 
may ave orma 1on re a e to the case to call t~e FBI, and e urged the letter writer also. to e 
make telephone contact w1th •
.~. 
"Ourfirstconcernistoiden-e the centrist Social Democratic Party. 
Government officials said the reforms would streamline the health bureaucracy and give the public wider choice, while denying no one access to free treatment. 
Under the plan, the 320 big­gest and most sophisticated of the 2,000 state-run hospitals in Britain can become self­governing in 1991, taking fee­paying private patients and bil­ling local authorities for the others. 
Breaking another post-war tradition, the self-governing hospitals will charge patients for extras such as choice of 
Cable television mogul Ted Turner engages actress meals, private telephones or Butterfly McQueen in conversation during a reception television. honoring the fiftieth anniversary of "Gone With The 
~\..E. with special guest 
oNN~~ BROKEN HOMES SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4 8:00 PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
All seats reserved $15.50 Tickets available at the Civic Auditorium 

I.F. Interns -a two year extra curricular career development program in the growing field of compensation and benefits is now considering applicants for 1989-90 summer internship opportunities. Career opportunities in this area are vast; they include positions in Accountancy, Communications, Computer Science, Human Resources, Insurance, Investments, .Law, Marketing, Consulting, etc. 
Successful candidates work in full-time paid positions with firms during the two summers before graduation and attend required educational seminars in Chicago during the academic year. Positions available primarily in Chicago, Milwaukee, Cleveland, and St. Louis, MO. 
I.F. Interns is for the energetic sophomore seeking to channel academic excellence toward specific career goals. Minimum 3.0 GPA required. Deadline for application is Feb 6. 
Additional information and application are available from: 
Career and Placement Services Memorial Library 
The International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans is a nonprofit educational organization. 
No instances of actual prod-e e e ee•••e e e eee e e e e e e e e e e e e e e eee eee e e e e e e e eee e e e 
· 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN TRANSITION INTO THE SOPHOMORE AN INFORMATIONAL PROGRAM 
by 

EMIL T. HOFMAN 
DEAN OF THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES • 
in the ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 
TUESDAY,  JANUARY 31,  
and  
WEDNESDAY'  FEBRUARY 1  

Wind" at New York's Radio City Music Hall Monday night. 
• 
FRESHMEN e 
e 

YEAR e
e
• 
• 
e
e 
e 
•
e 
6 30 p M e 
: • • e
• 
: 
6:30 P.M. e 

(Both programs will be the same. Every freshman should plan to attend one.) e
. 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN e 
tify the subject," he said. --.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Business
Wednesday, February 1 , 1989 page 9 
EE Savings Bonds are a good gift idea 
By WILLIAM WILSON and GLORIA MARULLO Special to The Observer 
If your shopping list itemizes children--. but not their precise ages or interests--you are probably panicking at the thought of trying to buy birthday presents that they will like or need. 
Forget it. First, they prob­ably have every toy ad­vertised on TV; second, their designer jeans cost more than your entire ward­robe; and third, you really can't bring yourself to waste money. 
So what's the answer? The lowly EE savings bond. 
For the same price as a Gucci sleepset--or for a frac­tion of the cost of the latest electronic gizmo--the EE bond has the advantage of being pre-assembled, non­alergic, and one-size-fits-all. Best of all, it doesn't need batteries. 
EE bonds can be pur­chased at any bank or finan­cial center and, unlike most investments, the terms are such that even a child can understand them. You pur­chase a $50 bond for $25. The reason you only pay $25 for a bond that eventually ma­tures at $50 is $25 of interest will accumulate over the life of the bond. The same logic applies to EE bonds of all maturity values. You can purchase a $100 bond for $50; a $200 bond for $100; a $500 bond for $250 or a $1000 bond for $500. 
Clearly, there is a bond for nearly every price range. 
In addition to getting you off the hook at Christmas and birthdays, EE bonds have some powerful tax ad­vantages. EE bonds are ex­empt from all state and local taxes; and federal tax on the accumulated interest is paid only when the bond is redeemed--at the child's low 
income tax rate (assuming 
the child is over the age of 
14 at the time the bond ma­
tures). 
While the EE bond will 
never earn the top interest 
rate, its tax advantages and 
simplicity make it a very 
respectable investment. In 
November 1988, the rate on 
EE bonds was boosted from 
6.9 to 7.35 percent. (The U.S. Treasury pegs the rate of return on EE bonds at 85 per­cent of the rate on marketable five-year Trea­sury notes and recalculates the EE rate every six months, on November 1 and May 1). 
There is no "ceiling" or 
maximum rate for the 
bonds, so during inflationary 
years, the rates will keep 
pace with other securities. 
Should interest rates start to 
drop, however, a "floor" 
rate of 6 percent guarantees 
that EE bonds will always 
pay a minimum of 6 percent. 
The maturity for an EE bond is normally 12 years (based on the floor rate of 6 
percent). When the rates are higher--as they are now--the bonds reach their face value sooner. Because of the vari­able rate, the easiest way to know the value of a specific bond is to check redemption tables available at any bank. 
Bonds must be held a min­imum of six months after purchase. This is part of your strategy. If an older child must hold the bond for six months, he or she will be less likely to cash it in. 
The authors are members of the firm Crowe, Chizek and Company. This column is part of the "Making your taxes less taxing" series, a collaborative effort ofthe In­ternal Revenue Service and the University of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College Tax Assistance Program. 
Commodity fraud task force formed by Feds 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, flanked by the U.S. attorneys from New York, Chicago and Kansas City, today announced the formation of special task forces to target "crime in the suites,'' primarily securities and commodities fraud. 
The Securities and Com­!llodities Fraud Task Forces, mcluding 15 additional assis­tant U.S. attorneys, will be located in six cities: New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Kansas City and Denver. 
U.S. attorney Rudolph Giuliani in New York and U.S. attorney Anton Valukas in Chicago already have under­taken substantial investiga­tions of the markets in those two cities. 
Thornburgh said the task forces were being formed to "combat what can aptly be called crime in the suites." Fraud is being committed "under the guise of respec­tability in the financial and se­curities markets," he said. 
In addition, Thornburgh said the Treasury loses more than $90 billion a year as a result of tax fraud, and white-collar crime has been a factor in many recent business failures, including many of the bank and savings and loan closings. 
There was no immediate word on how much the new ef­fort will cost. Those involved in the task forces will be senior, experienced prosecutors who will be replaced in their current jobs by new attorneys, Edward Dennis, assistant attorney gen­eral in charge of the Justice De­partment's criminal division, 
said at a news conference. 
The task forces will concen­trate on the most complex and difficult frauds, including stock loan frauds, precious metals fraud, "parking" of securities with buyers concealing how much of a stake they have in a company's stock, and major bank and brokerage frauds, plus tax evasion, obstruction of justice and perjury, Thornburgh said. 

Hints on collecting records for your 1988 tax return 
By KEN MILANI Special to The Observer 
As the new semester starts, now might be a good time to do something about your 1988 tax return. Here are a few actions you might consider: 
• 
Take some time getting prepared. Find and look at last year's return. This can open several areas of thought such as the gain or loss of a depen­dant or a significant shift of in­come or deductions. 

• 
Accumulate and organize the data you'll need. Informa­tion you should be gathering would include income informa­tion (e.g.-payroll summaries, interest, dividends), expen­denditure data (e.g.-medical payments, property tax receipts, interest paid, charitable contribtions) and 


Interest rates hurt first-time home 
buyers; fuel mortgage rate rise 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-In 1982, the median-priced existing home required a monthly payment of $702. In October 1988, the median-priced home required only $588 a month to carry. 
This is a story about the im­pact of interest rates-and it is only beginning. The 1982 house cost $67,800, the 1988 house cost $88,100. That is, the lower­priced house cost $114 more to carry than the higher-priced one. 
The explanation for this otherwise strange situation lies in the interest rates that prevailed in the two periods. In 1982, the average interest rate was 15.38 percent. In October of 1988 it was 9.41 percent. 
Interest rates power housing markets. Consider this addi­tional statistic: in 1982, when home prices were lower, 
MORTGAGES 
Based on October prices and 
rates, the NAR offers this rough 
affordbility guide. 
House 
Income Mortgage Price 
$20,000 $50,000 $62,500 
$30,000 $75,000 $93,800 
$40,000 $100,000 $125,000 
$50,000 $t25;.QOO · . $156.300 
$60,000 $150,000 $187,500 
$70,000 $175;000 $218,000 
Observer Graphic 
monthly payments took 35.9 percent of median family in­come. In October 1988, the percentage was only 22.2. 
The significance of such fig­ures, compiled by the National Association of Realtors on the basis of 20 percent downpay­ments, is becoming increas­ingly important now, the rea­son being that home mortgage rates are rising. 
It's bad news for a lot of people. 
While the immediate empha­sis is likely to be on the growing difficulty of families to find af­fordable homes, the impact is more widespread. Sellers may have to wait longer for a sale. Agents may face reduced in­come and possibly lose jobs. Builders conceivably could have to lay off workers. 
John Tuccillo, NAR chief economist, believes the higher trend of rates will last through the winter. They'll continue higher for about five months, he says, "and this will cause a further decline in affordability conditions." 
The potential homebuyer who won't be hurt, and might even be aided by these condi­tions, is the all-cash buyer. While such people are rare, they do exist; most of them probably are those who have just sold another home. 
other documentation that might have tax implications such as property contribuitions made to a charity or travel in­volved to receive medical care. 
• 
Examine your life since January 1, 1988 with a specific view to tax ramifications. For example, did your church spon­sor a special fund raiser during 1988? If so, what was the nature of your contribution--time, tal­ent andlor "treasure?" Did you redeem U.S. Savings Bonds to pay for an emergency expense or to complete a remodleing project? A look at a calendar or going through your check­book register can help jog your memory. 

•Expect 
to spend more than one session in pulling much of this information together. More often that not, missing in­formation can cost you money 


when it comes to filing whatever version of the 1040 you use. Investing some time to procure the needed informa­tion may lead to a more healthy refund or a smaller check to "Uncle Sam.". 
•Seek out advice and help from reputable and reliable sources. There are several books and manuals available in addition to the help provided by the Internal Revenue Service anoor paid preparers. 
Ken Milani is the Arthur Young Faculty Fellow in Taxa­tion and a professor of accoun­tancy. This column is a col­laborative effort ofthe Internal Revenue Service and the Uni­versity of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College Tax Assistance Program. 

Market _closes up 
18.21 ; trading active 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The stock market finished higher today in active trading, rebounding briskly late in the session. 
Analysts said the market succumbed early today to profit-taking in the wake of last week's impressive rally, which continued on Monday. 
Wall Street's bullish en­thusiasm was dampened somewhat by comments today by Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan, analysts said. Among · other things, Greenspan te>ld Congress' Joint Economic Committee that the potential threat of inflation still persists in the economy. 
After the market tested lower levels, however, it bounced back late in the day and again showed the strength gharacterizing its recent rally. As the Dow Jones average of 30 in­dustrials fell toward the 2,300 level, a massive buying surge was said to be trig­gered. 
The comeback reinforced market players' belief that many foreign investors and 
U.S. institutions are poised to jump on the rally band­wagon. 
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 18.21 points to 2,342.32. 
Advancing issues outnum­bered declines by about 9-to­5 on the New York Stock Ex­change, with 956 up, 533 down and 479 unchanged. 
Big Board volume totaled 
194.05 million shares, up from 167.83 million in Mon­day's session. 
The NYSE's composite in­dex rose 1.27 to 166.63. 
At the American Stock Ex­change, the market value in­dex was up 1.14 at 323.02. 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 1, 1989

page 10 
Dating: A unique social alternative 
For three years I have promised myself that I would address the contin­uously negative attitudes that exist toward dating in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. Every time I have heard an accusatory comment or defeatist position regarding dating, I have mentally planned a response, but I somehow always placed it aside and forgot my anger until the next irra­tional outburst. The desire to write fi­nally materialized because the heart of the problem occurred to me several w®ks ago. 
Elizabeth Crummy 
guest column 
The most prominent problem that exists in the dating scene is that of our personal attitudes and preconceived notions as to how romantic, or even platonic, overtures will be received. The general stance regarding dating seems to be that the opposite sex is an enemy that will either gun us down or entrap us. In either case, we are reluc­tant to accept responsibility for our ac­tions and efforts. We hide behind the platitudes and weak excuses that have existed on this campus presumably since 1972. We find it easier to tell our­selves that all efforts to change dating scene precedents will fail than to ven­ture into that territory ourselves. 
Girls are not any more or less phys­ically appealing here than at any other school in the USA, nor are their per­sonalities any more or less friendly or approachable. Notre Dame men are not any more or less athletic, handsome, opinionated, or chauvinistic than at any other school either. We all seem to be convinced that the administration deliberately assembled the extremes of the geekiest and most unattainable people to make our social lives infi­nitely complicated. Just because we demand perfection from ourselves, let's not be so harsh on one another. 
Many people say that they fear rejec­tion. When it comes to jobs--a far more important event in life than Saturday night--we joke about rejection, we buy one another drinks and celebrate the absurdity of letting one person's opinion destroy our self-image. If we are all so paralyzed by the fear of rejec­tion, how did we get here in the first place? How did we win essay contests, get onto a sports team, make the Chorale, play, Glee Club? Notre Dame is not a place filled with those afraid of rejection. Do we only try for those things which we are certain of obtain­ing? Why should (human) relationships be any different? They are much more important than any grade or club. Life still continues when we fail a test, blow an audition, or lose a race because we refuse to be defeated. 
The second biggest problem is fear 
of commitment. "If I ask him out, then 
he'll think that I like him." That's ex­
actly the point you want to get across. 
"What if she wants a commitment from 
me?" Honestly, how can someone want 
any kind of firm relationship before 
you've spent any time together? A date 
is not a marriage proposal. 
Personal examples are always risky, 
but maybe one would help to reinforce 
what I am saying. I recently wanted to 
get to know somebody that I had ad­
mired from afar. How to meet him? 
Some of my friends vaguely knew him 
and said that I really should make the 
effort to call him and meet him. Not 
being the most adventurous of souls, I 
went for the tried and true SYR plan. 
So, we SYR'd together, and we are on 
the way to a nice friendship; not only he and I, but he and many of my friends too. No pressure, no commitment, no marriage threats. Just a fun dance 
great pictures, a new friend, and a few boxes of candy. I might not always have done that. There was a time when I would have been paralyzed by someth­ing a simple as that, because I would have feared rejection. But I went out on a limb, and I lived to tell about it. That's what all of us need to do, I think. 
I know there is nothing new in what I have written here, so don't try to look for innovative ways in which to ask someone out. The only thing that I have tried to express is that we all need to take a good look at ourselves and the ridiculousness of the dating scene. If we complain, merely relying upon what others tell us is an irreversible situa­tion, then we can resign ourselves to a miserable time here and elsewhere. It is not the atmosphere, I can guarantee that. It is all of us who are too scared to take initiative in the most important issue of life--human relationships. If you get rejected, make a voodoo effigy of the creep and then ask out another one of the 5,000 available types. There's nothing to lose but a little bored time and an unhealthy attitude. 
Elizabeth Crummy is a senior English and philosophy major. 
P.O. Box Q 
Reagan: Out of touch with reality 

Dear Editor: 
A recent column by Kevin Smant (The Observer, Jan. 21) offers a glowing evaluation of tbe Reagan presidency. Because I am one of those "embittered, self-flagellating intellectuals" who have been critical of the Reagan presidency, I thought a dissenting view would be appropriate. 
I should begin by noting two points of agreement with Mr. Smant. First, Reagan has clearly made Americans feel better about themselves and their country. Second, efforts to "paint (Reagan) as somehow a conspiratorial, devious evildoer" (if they ever existed) are certainly misguided. These points of agreement should also indicate the failures of the Reagan presidency. 
Reagan never intended to increase the federal deficit and the trade deficit, create a climate which fosters racial violence, eliminate the safety net for the poor, feminize poverty, reduce protection of workers on their jobs, 
Doonesbury 
despoil the environment, increase ine­quality, concentrate wealth, etc. He was simply incapable of understanding that the policies he pursued would have those consequences. In short, Reagan was a nice, but ignorant man, captured by an ideology. 
A chasm separated reality and policy discussions at the Reagan White House. Reagan thought in terms of anecdotes and movies rather than general propositions and evidence on the eco­nomy, relations with the Soviet Union, etc. 
But let us be fair to Reagan and ex­amine his crowning achievement (aside from making us feel better about being Americans): the INF Treaty eliminating medium-range nuclear weapons in Europe. In fact, Reagan lost opportunities to conclude this treaty earlier as a result of his mindless "evil empire" rhetoric. Such rhetoric may make Americans feel better (presumably we are the good empire), but it serves foreign policy purposes poorly. 
Gorbachev presented Reagan with countless opportunities to negotiate reductions in nuclear and conventional weapons. Reagan failed to take advan­tage of these opportunities until his second term, the time during which presidents typically pursue aims which will mark their place in the history books. Yet, even then, Reagan pro­posed an agreement with the Soviets at Reykjavik which seemingly had not been examined by his staff! 
At home, Reagan plunged the country into the deepest depression since the Great Depression, despite his inten­tions to spur the economy. He never understood that his policies would have the effect of plunging poorer families, particularly single-parent households, into deeper poverty. Reagan simply thought that individuals ought to "pull themselves up by their own bootstraps." Such Horatio Alger stories have no basis in reality. 
One final observation concerns the budget deficit. Ronald Reagan and his fans have never understood the budgetary process. Their notion of reasonable and fair presidential control of the process was that Reagan ought to have complete control. Sorry, Ron, but some day you ought to read the Con­stitution. 
Garry Trudeau 
5MOI<&R5HAV& R16H'T5, 700/  FOR. THe 8&NeFIT OF  
ANIJONeOF THl3M 15 TH&RJGHT  INCRelJUUJlJ5 U5TeN­ 
70 SMOk& !l3/,/V&RY 5Y5Tt:MS  £31?5, I 5HOUW T&U.  &X.CJ.J5c Me.  115  
WITH CON7l?O/e1?5/Al-ING!?E­ YOU THAT OAO MAN­ MAl<& THATA  ACTUAlLY  
{)teNTS THAT MAY  '­---~­ AGW7054Y  /JAMN 5TRAIGHT'  N(Jf7HAT 
OR MAY N(JT  THAT IAIITH A  /JAMN  File&!  HARIJ.  
BeRa.AT&Il TOWNG  5TRAIGHT f74CI3.' I  577<AI6HT.' I  I  I  
CANC/3R.f  

Furthermore, blaming Congress for the deficit ignores reality. First, the budget which sets the agenda is the president's budget; Congress rarely departs significantly from the presi­dent's budget because the president has more resources to monitor the pro­grams run within his agencies. Second, even if congressional pressures to in­crease spending (to serve constituents) exist, it is the height of absurdity to claim that such pressures were fairly constant until Reagan became presi­dent and then dramatically sky­rocketed. The explosion of the deficit occurred when nothing except the oc­cupant of the oval office had changed. So, Mr. Smant, I must dissent from your rosy, feel-good assessment of the Reagan presidency. And by the way, a good historian might be a little more reticent about singing the praises of an "era of good feeling." Remember what followed the 1920's and another series of Republican presidents? 
Prof. Patrick A. Pierce Department of Government Saint Mary's College Jan. 31, 1989 

Quote of the Day 
"Work is the greatest thing in the world, so we should always save some of it for tomorrow." 
Don Herold 

Editorial Board  Operations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Ed1tor-m-Ch1el  Chns Murphy  Busmess Manager  John o~nder  
Managmg Ed1tor  Chns Donnelly  Adverflsmg Des1gn Manager  Molly K1llen  
News Ed1tor  Reg1s Cocc1a  Advertising Manager  Lmda Goldschmidt  
The ObseiVer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un~vers1ty of  News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin  Production Manager  Bernadene Shilts  
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College It does not necessanfy reflect the polic1es of  V1ewpomt Ed1tG•  .... Dave Bruner  Systems Manager  Mark A1dgeway  
the adm1n~strat1on of e1ther institution. The news IS reported as accurately and obJeCtively as  Sports Ed1tor  Marty Strasen  Controller  Todd Hard1man  
poss>ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n10n of the ma1onty of the Ed1tonal Board  Accent Ed1tor  Beth Healy  Graph1c Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the" authors Column  Samt Mary's Ed1tor  Sandy Cerimefe  
space 1s ava1lable to all members of the commun1ty and the free e~press1on of varymg  Photo Ed1tor  M1chael Moran  
op1n10ns on campus. through letters. IS encouraged  
Founded November 3,1966  

-
Accent 
Wednesday, February 1, 1989 
'Murphy Brown' sends CBS into high gear 
O
n a recent segment of producer is the young Miles Another episode centers "The Pat Sajak Show," Silverberg (Grant Shaud). around George Bush's In­Pat joked that CBS gave him Jim Dial (Charles augural Ball. While Murphy a new jeep, but he could not Kimbrough) and Frank Fon­searches for the reason her get it out of the third gear. tana (Joe Regalbuto) help to name is not on the list of The main reason CBS keep things running smoothly guests, Miles toys with the remains the third placed net­in the office. idea of asking Corky to be his work is the quality of its pro­Of course, a situation com­date. Murphy jokes that gramming; however, this edy's main goal is to make Corky is so much taller than season CBS has managed to people laugh and "Murphy he. "Do the words Mutt and air some outstanding shows. Brown" does this more often Jeff mean anything to you?" The new situation comedy than Roseanne Barr whines. Realizing that Miles does not "Murphy Brown" is a prime One person says of Corky, appreciate her caustic com­example of CBS' renewed "Of course, when she said she ment, Murphy lends some commitment to quality. loved animals, no one 
took support: "You're bright; you're funny. You know allJOE BUCOLO the state capitals." precisely this witty, intellec­Moore and Dick Van Dyke "Murphy Brown" is a won­tual humor that puts the are now joined in a marriage derful show not only because sparkle in "Murphy's" eye. of cancellation. Both their ¥ of its humor but also due to And the show performs its new shows, "Annie McGuire" To Be Continued ... its timeliness. The newsroom magic without ever mention­and "The Van Dyke Show" scenario provides a forum for ing Dan Quayle. were cancelled by CBS. This "Murphy Brown" airs Mon­her literally." Murphy has a new humor that does not log­May will be a blockbuster days at 9 p.m. Candice Ber­problem with the fact that ically fit into a family-based CBS has one of this month for avid movie fans. gen stars in the title role as a her boss, Miles, is so young: sit-com. For example, a local season's best new comedies in "Batman," "Karate Kid Ill," reputable news reporter for "It's just that while I was bartender (Pat Corley) "Murphy Brown." It is a "Star Trek V," and a third the hit television magazine getting maced at the '68 Dem­speaks to Murphy about the delightful--often sarcastic-­Indiana Jones movie starring ''FYI.'' Other newsroom ocratic Convention, you were Inaugural Ball. "I don't want half-hour of quality entertain­Sean Connery and Jones' fa­members complete the show's in your living room wishing to go; I have to. Bush wants ment. If CBS continues to ther will open to start off a regular cast. Corky Sherwood you were Adam West." She to thank me for that feature shows like this, Pat summer of movies that Holly­(Faith Ford) is a former Miss adds, "You haven't experi­'Thousand Points of Light' Sajak better fasten his seat­wood producers hope will America who organized a enced pain until the 'National idea. Hell, Murph. It was a belt. surpass even this past sum­closet in the talent competi­Enquirer' puts your head on joke. I didn't think it would Stay Tuned: Once joined in mer's huge box office reve­tion. "FYI's" executive Pia Zadora's body." get him elected." It is a TV marriage, Mary Tyler nues. 
The traditional jazz of 
F 
DAVID DESALLE Rob Ginoccio plays the alto ing in the Loft, the top floor accent writer saxophone, Vince Marcopoli of the Band Building. is the guitarist, Andy Kolesar Since In Cinq was founded, inally, the prayers of both plays bass, Kevin Tracy is they have performed on jazz aficionados and other the pianist, and Paul Lough­campus on the Fieldhouse music lovers have been an­ridge plays drums. All these Mall and participated in the swered! Next week the musicians are also members Bop and Beyond Concert, an campus jazz quintet In Cinq of the University Big Bands. annual performance by the will be bursting into the area At the beginning of this campus jazz combos. They club scene at the Center year, each of these musicians also appeared as guest fine Street Blues Cafe in Mis­were auditioning for spots in arts performers at a local hawaka, a mere ten minute one of the .two Big Bands. private school. While provid­ride from Notre Dame. Ginoccio and Loughridge ing music for a United Way 
The three hour set of tradi­heard the other three as they cocktail party at Center tional jazz will begin at 8: 30 auditioned and later ap­Street Blues Cafe in Novem­
p.m. on Wednesday, proached them to see if they ber, they attracted the atten­February 8. Cover charge has were interested in forming a tion of the establishment's been specially lowered to $2 quintet that would play tradi­general manager, Ken Par­for this performance. The tional jazz music. fitt, and their fine perfor­Center Street Blues Cafe of­It is usual for some mem­mance prompted him to ask fers table service with bers of the Big Bands to them to return. moderately priced meals and pursue their interest in jazz Last week I sat in on one of alcoholic beverages will be by forming smaller jazz com­the band's rehearsals and available to those 21 and bos. These smaller groups was duly impressed. They are older. It is located toward the are, in the words of Ginoccio, very competent musicians the only bands in the area area high school and will be rear of the 100 Center Com­"university-sponsored and and work together very well. playing traditional jazz.'' participating in the Collegiate plex, a mall on Lincolnway in student run." They play for The four members present Likewise, the Center Street Jazz Festival held in Stepen Mishawaka. various campus events and did a fair rendition of the jazz Blues Cafe is one of the only Center on April 7-8. Tenative 

In Cinq consists of five sometimes represent the Uni­standard "Take the A Train" clubs featuring this sort of arrangements are beingNotre Dame undergraduate, versity off campus. They are and when Loughridge, the music. "This is an opportu­made for the Elmhurst Col­graduate, and law students: given the privilege of rehears-drummer, finally showed up nity to hear jazz in its in­lege Jazz Festival in Chicago, 
they launched into a driving tended environment," said several appearences at local and electrifying version of Kolesar. schools, a performance for ~ "Maiden Voyage." Hopefully The band expects to be the Michiana Jazz Society at 
, (.~~:v these two tunes will be on the very busy this semester. They South Bend Union Station, playlist for next week's per­
will be performing on campus and participation in the Mic­formance. over Junior Parents Weekend hiana Jazz Festival in Elkart. The South Bend area does and will be holding a benefit Expect a great perfor­
not attract many big-name 
concert on February 24 in mance from In Cinq next 
jazz artists and according to Wednesday. They are
Holland, Michigan. On April 2 
Ginoccio, "In Cinq is one of they have a gig at a Chicago definately a group to see. 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill 
~-------u------~ 
({) f>-W/l-'{, CALIJ\t-1! Mi. I'll SA~ 15 ~AI I ­S\f 9:*·1{'fH1tRt: ELSE ! S\JRt: ITIL 9JR.Ri FoR I Dot{1 WANT lb M~ TA~WORt<\. Kt-IOW ~~A\ RE'IOL\1!'\G 1\-\11'% ~0\l 1-lr>-~E toR I 
L\JNC\\ \OOr>-i. 
~I(_ 
<::. 


The ObMMir I E.G. Bailey 
The members of the tradHional jazz group In Clnq. From left: 
VInce Marcopoll, Rob Glnocclo Andy Kolesar, Paul Loughridge, and Kevin Tracy. 

----~ -------~--~~~­
-

presents: 
:MONEY FOR COllEGE :
~ 
I Every Student Is Eligible for Some Type of Financial I/
Wednesday: Free Fun Flick! 
-
I Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. I 1 • We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fel-1 

lowships, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion in private II sector funding.1 • Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic 1 
interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. II There's money available for students who have been newspaper1 carriers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ... etc. 1I Results GUARANTEED. I
doors open 8:00 -begins at 8:15 
NO I SMC 10 required I CALL For A Free Brochure •'Ill Food and Drinks at Ted's HideawaY.' I ANYTIME {800) 346-6401 fi_jl 
~-------------------~ 
1. 
Alley-oop shot (International basketball) 

2. 
Overweight team (tug-of-war) 

3. 
Not pitching with stiff arm (cricket) 

4. 
Lefthanded hit (polo) 


5. Both feet off floor (pool) -6. Using running start (darts) 
7. Using heated blades (luge) 
lnterhall Hoops ND Basketball 
NO Opp.
WOMEN'S INTERHALL Margin + 7 + 26 + 16 + 18 + 22 + 12 + 15 + 1 + 19 + 7 + 3 

A Division  Opponent  Reb.  Reb.  
w  L  Pel  GB  St. Bonaventure  43  36  
Pasquerilla Easl  4  0  1.000  Kentucky  53  27  
Walsh  3  1  .750  1  Indiana  43  27  
Lewis Knott I Lyons Breen-Phillips I  2 2 1 0 B Division  2 2 3 4  .500 .500 .250 .000  2 2 3 4  Creighton Valparaiso Pennsylvania San Francisco  49 45 36 37  31 23 24 22  
Pasquerilla West Breen-Phillips II  3 3  0 0  1.000 1.000  Portland UClA  34 39  33 20  
Badin  2  1  .667  1  SMU  35  28  
Siegfried Howard Farley Knott II  2 1 0 0  1 3 4 4  .667 .250 .000 .000  1 2.5 3.5 3.5  Syracuse Rutgers Temple Averages  32 36 43 40.4  29 37 27 28.0  
Irish Hockey  
Through January 30  
PLAYER, POS.  GP  G  A  PTS  PIM  PPG  GW  
Dave Bankoske RW  32  11  27  38  8  2  1  
Tim Kuehl, RW  32  16  15  31  28  6  2  
Bobby Herber, RW  31  13  14  27  68  3  0  
Matt Hanzel, LW  31  17  9  26  30  6  2  
Bob Bihon, C  30  5  15  20  16  1  0  
Kevin Markovitz, D  27  4  12  16  48  0  0  
Bruce Guay, W  31  6  8  14  52  1  2  
Michale Curry, LW  31  5  8  13  20  1  0  
Pat Arendt, C  27  8  5  13  18  0  1  
Rob Bankoske. RW  28  4  5  9  8  0  0  
Lou zadra, LW  26  2  6  8  34  0  0  
Kevin Patrick, D  29  3  5  8  20  1  0  
Tim Caddo, D  30  2  6  7  47  0  0  
Brian Montgomery. C  28  3  4  7  10  0  1  
Andy Slaggert. RW  18  2  5  7  2  0  0  
William Hoelzel, D  28  1  5  6  18  0  0  
Mark McCiew, RW  26  1  4  5  26  0  0  
Michael Musty, OVV  15  1  3  4  8  0  0  
Chris Olson, LW  21  1  3  4  6  0  0  
Roy Bemiss, D  29  1  2  3  26  1  0  
Michael Leherr, D  31  0  2  2  40  0  0  
Bruce Haikola, D  6  0  2  2  10  0  0  
Marc O'Sullivan, G  12  0  1  1  0  0  0  
Tom Fitzgerald, LW  8  0  1  1  4  0  0  
Bill Lerman, RW  6  0  0  0  4  0  0  
Phil Shaffalo, RW  1  0  0  0  0  0  0  
Robert Copeland, D  1  0  0  0  0  0  0  
Scott Vickman, D  1  0  0  0  0  0  0  
Lance Madson. G  31  0  0  0  2  0  0  
NOTRE DAME  32  106  167  273  553  22  9  
OPPONENTS  32  151  225  376  531  32  21  
SCORING BY PERIODS  1  2  3  OT  T  
Notre Dame  30  40  35  1  106  
Opponents  45  57  49  2  153  
GOALTENDERS  MIN  RCD  G  GAA  svs  PCT  so  
Lance Madson  1858  8-21·2  148  4.78  1095  .881  1  
Mark O'Sullivan  86  1..()-()  5  3.49  44  .898  0  
NOTRE DAME  1944  9-21-2  153  4.75  1139  .881  1  
OPPONENTS  1944  21-9-2  106  3.09  989  .911  2  

-1 + 16 + 12.4 
SH 3 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
7 10 
Sports Calendar 
Wednesday Wrestling at Michigan State 
Thursday Men's basketball vs. MARQUETTE, 8 p.m. Women's basketball at Detroit 
Friday Hockey vs. MICHIGAN-DEARBORN, 7:30 Women's tennis hosts ECK DOUBLES CLASSIC 
Saturday Hockey at Michigan-Dearborn Women's tennis hosts ECK DOUBLES CLASSIC Men's tennis at Ohio State Wrestling at Oklahoma 
Sunday Men's basketball vs. DUKE, 4:00 p.m. Women's tennis hosts ECK DOUBLES CLASSIC 
NBA Standings · 
Eeatern Conference Atlantic Division 
w L Pet. GB New York 27 16 .628 Philadelphia 24 18 .571 2.5 Boston 20 21 .488 6
AP Basketball Poll New Jersey 25 10
16 .390 Washington 15 24 .385 10 ChaMotte 11 31 .262 15.5 
AP Top Twenty Central Division The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren· Cleveland 31 9 .775 theses, this season's records and total points. Points Detroit 27 13 .675 4 based on 20·19·18·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents Milwaukee 26 14 .650 5 are italicized. Atlanta 25 16 .610 6.5 Chicago 24 16 .600 7 
1. Oklahoma (32) 17·2 1273 Indiana 11 30 .268 20.5 2. Illinois (25) 18·1 1226 3. N.Carolina (4) 18·3 1074 Western Conference 4. Arizona (1) 15·2 1055 Mldweet Dlvlalon 
5. 
Missouri (3) 18·3 1048 w L Pet. GB 

6. 
Georgetown (1) 15·2 1019 Houston 25 16 .610 


7. Louisville 14·3 1011 Utah 25 16 .610 
B. Florida State 16·1 797 Dallas 21 19 .525 3.5 
9. 
Iowa 15·3 651 Denver 22 20 .524 3.5 

10. 
Seton Hall 18·2 638 San Antonio 11 30 .268 14 

11. 
Michigan 16·4 618 Miami 4 37 .98 21 



12. Duke 14·3 602 Pacific Dlvlalon 13. NC State 14·2 582 
14. 
Syracuse 17·4 515 LA Lakers 29 13 .690 

15. 
Oh10 State 15·4 505 Seattle 26 14 .650 2 

16. 
UNLV 14-4 396 Golden State 22 19 .537 6.5 

17. 
Indiana 16·5 347 Portland 21 19 .525 7 

18. 
West Virginia 15·2 107 Sacramento 12 28 .300 16 

19. 
LSU 14·5 73 LA Clippers 10 31 .244 18.5 

20. 
Stanford 15-5 72 Phoenix 25 15 .625 3 



s!
..: t tJ)
Q) 
:I
r:: 

>-Ill
r:: Ill Q) 
... Ill c­
-e ... Ill Ill -(I) -c
Ill G) -u. ..Ill CJc Ill oe
-·e;, (I) r:: ·-Q._
0 ...
-:I ":I
!! WCI ~G) >-0 
%U. Q.c( D. a: ...J~ IDc( 
Half Court Hoogs (M) :120 0 :190 1ZO 0 60 
(W} 2Q Q 5Q 30 BQ Q 6Q Q 210 Q 2Q 
Water Lacrosse 30 ~0 40 jjQ 10 jQ 40 Q 20 BQ 20 
Nerf Football 80 ~Q 160 !2Q 120 60 80 20 60 ~Q 80 
lnnertube Water Polo 30 20 100 10 0 10 20 0 20 60 130 
R!!CQ!.!!iltb!!ll Singles :180 100 120 90 1ZO 60 150 180 190 160 2!1:0 Arm Wr~stling :150 0 60 50 0 20 :lZO ~0 260 0 110 BroQmQall 80 60 !1:0 ~0 60 100 60 150 140 60 60 Whiffl!i! B!!ll 100 60 80 10 !1:0 2.0 !1:0 10 140 20 ZO lndQQr So!;;!;;!i!r 100 60 :130 200 0 30 :100 0 110 160 260 Ob§tagl!;l Course 0 20 !1:0 50 0 0 40 20 so 0 !1:0 VQII!i!llb!!ll 260 30 :150 120 :120 :!60 2:10 ~0 60 100 :180 T§!bl!i! T!i!nnis :120 60 !1:0 30 60 50 :130 zo 50 120 !1:0 Dunk T§!nk 26 25 45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 WQm!i!n'§ SQQ!;;!i!r 0 30 0 :100 90 3Q 0 0 0 "All E'{!i!nt§" 50 50 50 50 0 50 50 Women's Raguetball 40 3Q 20 0 Place 2 TOT 
Source: NVA 
Scoreboard 
Men's basketball (11-3) Notre Dame 64, Temple 60 
Women's basketball (12-5) Notre Dame 66, Xavier 52 Notre Dame 72, Dayton 57 
Hockey (9-21-2) Notre Dame 4, Canisius 0 Notre Dame 5, Canisius 2 

Fencing Women's Notre Dame defeated U. Chicago, Lawrence, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Michigan­Dearborn by a combined score of 59·5 (.921 ). 
Records: Janice Hynes, 5-() Heidi Piper, 5-() Kristen Kralicek, 6-Q Lynn Kadri, 10·1 Tara Kelly, 10·1 Brenda Leiser, 13·1 

Men's Notre Dame defeated U. Chicago, Lawrence, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Michigan­Dearborn by a combined score of 121·13 (.920) 
Records: Yehuda Kovacs, 6-0 Joel Clark, 5-Q Phil Leary, 6·0 Tim Collins, 7-0 
Ed Bauger. 6·1 Todd Griffee, 6·1 Frances Fay, 7-0 Henry Chou, 5·1 Mike Trisko, 5·1 Paul Vogt, 5·1 

Wrestling Nebraska 23, Notre Dame 15 Notre Dame 1st at National Catholic Meet 
Track Notre Dame 3rd vs. Iowa State and Wiscon­sin 
Swlmmlmg 

Men (6-3) Notre Dame 158, Cleveland State 85 St. Bonaventure 142, Notre Dame 101 
Women's (5-5) Notre Dame 162, Cleveland State 98 Notre Dame 201, St. Bonaventure 88 
Tennis Men's (Q-2) Michigan 8, Notre Dame 1 
Women's (Q-2) Minnesota 7, Notre Dame 2 Marquette 5, Notre Dame 4 
·;: c (I) 
0 : 
'C
(/)-r:: ... -:0 
-0 Oc
J: IV 
Ill r:: ·-~~~-r:: :~:.<3 
-Q) ·= ,r::li J IV
IV Cll Cll-ou :i:lll:: ~lll:: ...J(/) ::t::::E 

:190 0 300 100 :160 

Wednesday, February 1, 1989 
The Observer page 13 
McCloud has FSU in Top 10 
Underrated guard leading surge in Seminole basketball 
Associated Press "You're going to stumble basket in both road games last 
more than once usually," said week and sent the Arkansas 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla.--Kennedy. "We stumbled at the game earlier this month into High-scoring Florida State same time... everyone had a overtime with a 3-pointer. point guard George McCloud bad shooting night, but we Florida State won that game enjoyed a spectacular January, learned a little more about 112-105--one of five times the leading the eighth-ranked playing against a good zone Seminoles scored at least 100 Seminoles to an 8-0 month and defense." points in January. a return to college basketball's "I can't believe there has Top Ten. 
Kennedy looks back with pos­been any player in college bas­
McCloud, a 6-7, itive feelings about his team's ketball this year who has been 205-pound senior, lone setback. more of a clutch player," Ken­averaged 26 points "It was definitely a blessing nedy said. "He's a dangerous a game in that for us," said Kennedy. "It 3-point shooter." time, hitting 50 helped the kids see things bet­percent of his 66 McCloud ter. We've rounded out into a Kennedy has managed to attempts from 3-good balanced club now. keep the team on course point distance and 58 of 68 free "There is no question in my despite mJuries to Tharon throws. mind that we are a Top Ten Mayes, the club's third-leading 
As a result, the Seminoles team now. They are very scorer and quickest player, and take a 16-1 record into focused and everyone is sixth-man Michael Polite, who February and Wednesday playing with confidence right was sidelined in December night's Metro Conference now." with Guillaine-Barre game against Memphis State. The Seminoles enjoyed a per­syndrome. 
Florida State slipped into the fect month climaxed by confer­Top Ten on Christmas week for ence road wins last week at Derrick Mitchell took over the first time since 1972, when South Carolina and Virginia for Mayes, giving Kennedy the school made its lone Final Tech that catapaulted them four seniors and a fourth-year Four appearance, but a one­from 11th to eighth, and put junior, Kentucky transfer Ir­point loss to Villanova knocked them atop the conference with ving Thomas, in the starting the Seminoles back to 14th. a 4-0 record. lineup. 
The 68-67 loss, along with the "Looking at us as a potential loss of two of the team's top six McCloud, who has not had tournament team, we've got a players, left coach Pat Ken­much national acclaim, led the lot of ingredients," said Ken­nedy's squad with a mission. way. He scored the winning nedy. "We play very hard." 
Photo courtesy DePaul Sports Information 
Terence Greene's team has struggled for much of the season, but DePaul did come away with a win Tuesday night. The Blue Demons defeated Duquesne 85-63. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
Classifieds until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
LOOKIN FOR A JUOO Gl? 
I NEED 8 LOUISVILLE GA TICKETS MY DATE WAS TOO LAZY TO GET 
STUDENT ALUMNI RECEPTION!!II! CALL Julie 4929 KEENAN REVIEW TIX!II 
We have 2, sizes 3 & 4 lor $25 each, or 
STUDENT ALUMNI RECEPTIONIIII! WILL PAY $$$ FOR TWO TIXIbest offer. Melissa x3477 or Laura x3948. 
L--N_o_T_Ic_es___.) IL....-FO_R_R_EN_T~ 
STUDENT ALUMNI RECEPTIONIIIII 

PLEASE HELP ME FIND 4 DUKE GA CALL 284-4318 
HOUSE FOR RENT 3 BLOCKS FROM Thurs. Feb. 2 4:45-6:30
TYPING AVAILABLE TIX MY APPRECIATION AND YOUR
NO 3 BEDROOMS-$47WO 516 North Dining Hall 
287-4082 PROFIT WILL BE ENORMOUS! CALL
NAPOLEON 232·3616 

TICKETS 
PAULA 284-4082. THANK YOU ST. JUDE! 
FEEL THE BLUES 6 BDRM HSE AVAILABLE 89-90 FRIDAY AT SENIOR BAR
TyplngWordproceulng 
SCHOOL YEAR. 67SMO. 234-9384. 10:00 P.M. 
NEED 2 DUKE GAS CALL 2281 237-1949 
HEY BLOND GUY WGLASSES IN NOH I HOPE U R THE 1 I MEANT.
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK­
PERSONALS

NEED 2 DUKE GAs-Kristin x1124 EITHER WAY, I HAVE IN MIND A WAY
································································ FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL AMY R. 
TO MEET. BUT FIRST, I'D UKE AN­
FOR ALL NO ACTIVmES. RESERVE Words cannot describe how I worship
HELPIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIII I REALLY LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review OTHER
NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. you from afar. Please call me and make 
NEED TWO DUKE GA'S SOON! $$$ ..rty. Kepllln-SMH revlewa to many INTERESTING RESPONSE. M.
61&-171·5711. my dreams come true.
PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 2163 AND 
ateiH IVIIIeble here In South Band. 

-An admirer Trenehlr back home for summer. Dl•LEAVE A MESSAGE$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT THE
Lost-pair of black leather gloves on counts tor Kaplan LSAT alumni. REVUE TIX 
IRISH B&B DURING JPW. LOCATED 2 Have 2 Set Revue tix, would like to trade
WE NEED THREE DUKE GA'S. 
shuttle Jan. 20. Please-it's cold out! # Reurve before March 2 Call272-4135. 2 Fri for 2 Thurs Call Rob 1159 2804 Ask lor SUe.
Ml FROM N.D. FOR INFO. RING 272-PLEASE CALL RICK OR JOE AT 1644. for 2 Thur tix, call x3445 7738. Collegiate Jazz Festival Logo constest. 
ATTENTION ANY NQSMC WOMEN IN­LOST: red scarf between Lafourtane and SUMMER JOBS Entries due Feb. 6 4:oo in Student Ac­TEREST ED IN PLAYJNG LACROSSE

Please, I desperately need 2 Duke Stud CALL KATHY BENZ AT 284-5482.
library Wed. morning 11.!5. Please call ALL LANDWATER SPORTS tivijies Office in LaFortune. Winning
tix I Cengiz Searfoss x1658
Cara at 3722. PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS Entries will receive • $75 prize and will
WANTED 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR become property ol CJF. Questions? Mom & Dadfound an address book in the post office LAKE
4 Duke tixs for sale. 272-6306 contact Student Activities Office. 
Happy 20th Anniversaryon Thursday. It might be im-portant to PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373

COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire NEED 2 DUKE STUD TIX CALL DAN Thanks for everything 
you. call 233-4361. SENIOR BAR SENIOR BAR
Mts., West. Mass. Good Sal.,room & 287-8716 Billy "STIX" Nicks and 
bd,travel allowance, beautdul modem Love,
SPRINGBREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE 

theN's and OUTS FOUND: Keys at The Varsity Shop. Call 50Ft. YACHTS BIMINI BAHAMAS 10:00 p.m. FRIDAY
facillty,must love children & be able to Tim & Chris 
teach one of the following: Tennis, P .S. I hOpe this is a nice surprise
We need to trade Friday night KMNin W.S.I.,Sailing Revue tickets for eHher Thursday or Sat· 
277-0057. GROUPS OF 8, $435.00 PP 7 DAYS 
INCLUDES ALL MEALS

Waterski,Bssebaii,Basketbali,Soccer LIVE AT
urday. ~interested, call Matt at 283-1957 
LOST: Gold bracelet with a two-bead 1..00.1199-7245 ANYTIME ACTS NEEDED for BCAF Talent Show
laCrosse,Wood,A&C ,Rocketry, Photog­or Sera at 283-2851. McCORMICK'S 
design. Great sentimental value. Call ORGANIZE & CRUISE FREE on February 11, 1989. Call soon to
raphy,Archery,Pioneering, GRIFFIN & SPARKS Kathleen at 283-3865. PLEASE HELPIII We need to trade 4 reserve a spot--either Tracy (3879) or
Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp "THE STONE PUPPIES" Winadu,S Glen ls.,Mamaroneck, NY tickets for the Friday night Keenan Revue Agnes( 4011 )--and limn acts to 5-8 9:00-1:00 TONIGHTIII 10543. (914)381-5983 to either Thursday or Saturday night. Call 
lost green bookbag wtth all my book SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spend minutes! please return.. x2147 7ntS'IIdsys at Spring Bruk's HOT·
Kelly at 277-6895. Thanks. 
TEST resort, The Clarendon PIIIZII GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID
NO Law school studsnts to be repe MAZIE AND DUANE: 
FOUND: Has anyone lost a check from home of Penrod'strhe Plllnletlon Club FRI. 12:15 DOME STEPS
for Kaplan-SMH Bar Review cour-. 2 DUKE GAs FOR SALE, x1560 Grut job In ths play this WMUndl 
Erbrecht Consulting Services? If so, and the largem pool deck ON THE
Earn free bar review couree plus SS's. You both-.­Cell 272-4135. Ask for Sue. NEED DUKE TICKETS BADL VIII CALL
please call Chris x2894 to claim the BEACH! $185 per person limited check. apace. Cell today Brukewey Tours 1· sophomore gEEkfest 
PETE AT 277-4165 
800-444-7384. 
sophomore gEEkfest 

COUNSELOR$-Girts camp in Maine. 
COMING SOONII LOST: Jan.17-SILVER BRACELET­Anyone interested in Spring Break DUKE STUD TICKET FOR TRADE OF 
Good sal,room & bd.,travel allowance, -SENIORs-• 
beautiful modem facility ,must love SENOR KELLY'S
either at campus view or on campus near Barefoot Cruise to Bahamas call Steve
children and be able to teach one of the $3-ALL YOU CAN EAT
2 TO 4 KEENAN REVUE TIX
P.E. It was a Christmas gill and it really at x3767. Complete haircut and style wtth Peg­
following:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing PREFERABLY FRIDAY OR SATUR­TACO BAR 
means a lot to me. If found PLEASE call 
gy; Spec:lal Price of: $7.00 for men and Julie at 4351.$$$reward THANK YOU Jesus, Sis. Joseph, Jude, $10.00 for women. Cell Coslmo's
Waterski,Soflbaii,Basketball, Soc­DAY. CALL CHRIS AT4079 AND LEAVE FRIDAY, FEB. 3 
cer,LaCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­MESSAGE BEFORE THURSDAY AF­5PM-8PM
& Anthony, & Mon. Escriva for granted 

Shapes end Unes for en eppoln-nt. H-sENIORs­............. LOST ................ Gold heart Craft,Gymnastics.Call or write:Camp intentions You won't be dlfllppolntecll 277-1875 • locket from necklace between Hurley and H-SENIORS­
back,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp TERNOON. 
Vega, Box 1771 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 South dining hall Monday-PLEASE return Anyone driving to or thru the Milwaukee YOUTH IN ASIA LIVE at SENOR KELLY'S
(617)934-6536 LOUISVILLE STUDENT TICKET 4 SALE 

nfound! Kristin x1124 area the weekend of Feb. 3 have room SHENANIGANS $3-ALL YOU CAN EAT 
CALL 2964 BETH for 2-4 riders to share expenses? Call TONIGHTIII !O:OOpm. TACO BAR LOST: 30 Maclnlosh diskettes from my Chris or Paige If 2923 ASAP. FRIDAY, FEB. 3 
NEED RIDE TO PITISBURGH THIS 
WEEKEND, FEB 3·5 CAN LEAVE car in Ct. The importance of those disks SPIWPM
THURS OR FRI CALL JOE 233-8138 cannot be exagerated. $$$ for informa­SOPHOMORES --SENIORS-
Need 5 DUKE Tix. Stud or Ga ·call x1252 To Amy and Julie, our favorite Grace ­tion leading to the return of them. Please SUMMER INTERNSHIP-U.S.TOBACCO Hockey Groupies, thank you for your sup­Fall Formal pictures are here! Pick yours call If 4936 or 289·1628. Or dyou already port!
is looking for bright,personable student up in the class office. interested in public relations. no experi­
have them, please return them to 230 P. S. •• How was the game Julie? RIDER NEEDED THIS WEEKEND' Knott Hall. No questions asked. LEAVING
ence nee. Call 1-800-UST -6900 WANT SAT. NITE TICKET FOR ONE-WAY FLIGHT TO BOSTON ON 
KEENAN REVUE. WILL TRADE FOR STUDENTS NEEDED TO ACT AS LIVE MARCH 3 ATNOONONFAIDAY.WILLBEGOING LOST-WATCH AND GOLD BRACELET THURS. NITE. CALL KATHLEEN 3865. STREET MUSICIANS AND STREET LISA X2841 TOWARDS CLEVELAND, ENDING UP MONDAY NIGHT IN LAFORTUNE. ENTERTAINERS. CALL BOB AT 239-IN 
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Do you have Keenan Revue txs? I have 7254. WHEELING. ONLY 1 HOUR FROM REWARD! CALL 2851. a Thurs tx to· trade for a Sat tx. If 1238 LIVE MUSIC TONIGHT PITI$-BURGH. CALL 2108 ..
FOR SALE 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND FOR SPRING at MCCORMICK'S Coney Island 
LOST: Gold Quartz Consort Watch with HELP ME II need 1 Duke ticket. Call Mike BREAK see Griff & Sparky's new guitar duo the AERO WHAT'S GOING DOWN WITH ­a black band. If found call Jennie 283-at 4075.Thanxl 7 Nights Luxury Condominiums, Round THE PATROL? LOOKS LIKE 
Order your TEXTBOOKS 25% OFF! 
SAVE $$$ on paperbacks. 30% OFF! "STONE PUPPIES" SOUL 
3688. Trip Air Transportation. THEY NEED SOME NEW BABES. BUT 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. 
The offteial Notre Dame endorsed FIRST LET"$ TEACH THEM HOW TOJust 3 blocks from campus. PH# 233­
Did you find a silver pocket watch? It is trip. $437. To sign up call Bob DANCE!
2342 WANT SOME INFO ABOUT YOUR FU­
worth nothing, but ij was my grndfather's. I NEED 3 DUKE GA'slllll Ted; x1934 283-1521 or Student Activijies Off. at TURE CAREER??? Who better to ask 
I lost it Saturday. Reward $ is offered. 239-7308. HCR
than Notre Dame's own Alumni Boardll Please call me Kristen If 4812 1986 TOYOTA TERCEL 2DR UFTBACK NE'eooi:ii<E'a~:soRsi=uosci.i3ii2. 
Come see them at the Student-Alumni $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ EXC COND 25,000 MILES $3900. CALL RIDE NEEDED TO GRAND RAPIDS, Ml 
Reception in North Dining Hall Thurs. Feb JANET 284-5710 8-4:30 M·F HELP! I NEED DUKE STUDENT OR GA ON FEB 3 AND FOR FEB 10 WILL 2 4:45-6:30 THE ALUMNI BOARD IS IN TOWN AND BANDANA:LOST IN CCE BLDG LIGHT TIX. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 4073. SHARE EXPENSES AND DRIVING WANTS TO SEE YOU Ill Over 40 Alumni PINK WITH BLUE PRINT STATING For Sale: SYNTHESIZER call Joe 1865 CALL HEATHER AT 4161. 
will be there representing a vast range"SKI-LOVE-LAND" AROUND THE 

Need Seturday night Keenan Revue ····•··························································· ot careers including: medical, legal,
EDGES. MEANS A LOT TO ME SO IF For Sale-nearly new HP15C. tickat. Will trade for Thursday ticket Call BRIGHTEN YOUR LIFEII MEET THAT W•r G..,. to ths Duke Gemell engineering, finance, accounting,YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL HEAT­Best offer. Call LAURA, 2588. Kathleen at x3865. SOMEONE SPECIAL THROUGH OUR Green NO shirts here on sale from retirees--the ~st goes onlll Come seeHER MAVERICK AT 284-4052. SINGLES CLUB. INTRO SINGLES Irish Insanity-56 them, Thurs. Feb 2 4:45-6:30 NorthREWARD Ill OWay lr tic SBend-NY. Cheap 288-8 130 Need louisville GA's. x.-2339 CLUB, BOX 3006, BOSTON, MA 02130. Go lrleh-W•r G..,.l 
Dining Hall. 

!""'"--------------------~----------------------~---­

Wednesday, February 1 , 1989
page 14 The Observer 
Knight blasts ESPN package 
Big 1 0 colleagues like TV exposure of late-night games 
Associated Press started at 9:38 p.m. EST and giving in to the Big East? it ended shortly before midnight. seems to me more people are 
CHICAGO--Indiana's Bob But they want the exposure. watching Big Ten games than Knight is against late games the Big East." for television, but his fellow Big Bill Frieder of Michigan sug­Ten basketball coaches said 
gested rotating the games, with Tuesday the advantages out­the Big Ten starting the first weigh the disadvantages. game one Monday night and 
"It depends in what chair the Big East the next Monday you're sitting," said Purdue's night. Gene Keady, in the coaches' "I've got dual feelings," weekly telephone news confer­Frieder said. "I don't need ence. "If you've won three na­ESPN, we've been on national tional titles, you're not con­television often in recent years. cerned. But the rest of us will We don't need it but the Big take any recognition we can Ten does. get." "The Wisconsins, the 
Most of the coaches are Northwesterns, the Michigan against the late starting times States need it. But these things of the doubleheader cable tele­go in cycles. Overall, the vision package ESPN has put "We'd like to play at a more money is there and the expo­together on Monday nights. livable hour, but that's not the sure is there and it's good for The package has the Big East wav it works," said Iowa's Tom the league." playing the first game and the Davis. "Some of us in this Jud Heathcote of Michigan Big Ten the second, and league need national recruit­State said he's never liked Knight's Hoosiers have played ing. Those w~o have to recruit early-afternoon games. at 9:30p.m., on three of the last nationally love ESPN. We view four nights--winning all three. it as a tremendous positive. It's "TV has dictated our 
After Indiana defeated Iowa disruptive, but a majority of us schedules," he said. "You can 104-89 Monday . night, Knight are willing to accept it." talk all you want about dollars declared it would be Indiana's Steve Yoder of Wisconsin hit and exposure, but I think the last late game. on all phases of the problem. last thing we'd want to give up 
"We don't need this," he "I understand what Bob's is ESPN exposure." 
The Observer I Robert Jones
said. "It's ridiculous to be here talking about," said Yoder. Heathcote's only complaint at this hour." "It's great exposure. Some is that every school isn't on 
Indiana coach Bob Knight Is fighting against Big 10 games being
Other Big Ten coaches teams feel they don't need the ESPN twice a year. 
held on late Monday nights to accomodate ESPN. Many of his peers 
agreed the late starting times publicity. I don't think the Then, as an afterthought to 
are disruptive, especially for starting times are good, but Knight's complaints, he added, In the Big 10, however, feel that the television exposure Is what's the visiting team. The Iowa­you have to be flexible." "If Bobby doesn't want it, we'll best for the conference. Indiana game, for example, Yoder wondered, "Are we take his spot." 

JUNIORS
NFLPA officials say dues are paid; 
II Juniors Planning to Apply t
statistics present a different story 
Health Professional Schools 
Associated Press Neither agency has com­director, received $57,760 in mented on the allegations and salary and $22,096 in expenses. 
FIRST MEETING 
NEW YORK--The NFL Upshaw and his assistant, Dick Berthelsen, the union's players Association received Doug Allen, said two weeks ago general counsel, is not listed on 
DATE:WEDNESDAY,FEB 1,1989 
dues from only about a fourth at a news conference that what the report but his salary is part of its members in the year it was reported as a $100,000 loan of professional expenses, 
TIME: 7:00 PM 
struck the league for 24 days, to Upshaw in the reports was which total $494,139. but union officials said Tues-no more than deferred pay­This financial report was due 
PLACE: 127NIEUWLAND 
day that a majority of the ment. last May 29 and was filed eight nearly 1,600 players have now There was no mention of that months late, not atypical for 
SCIENCE HALL 
paid up. payment in the financial state-the NFLPA, which in the past According to the union's fin-ment. has filed its reports even later. 
PLEASE MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO ATTEND 
ancial statement for the period Upshaw is by far the highest It shows that the union, which from March 1, 1987 to Feb. 29, paid employee of the union, re-dismissed 17 of its 36 employees 1988, filed with the Labor De-ceiving a total of $182,156 in during the period, had a net partment Jan. 23, the organiza-salary and expenses. Allen loss of $310,000, which Upshaw 

WRESTLING
tion received $877,441 in dues received $89,136 of which said is largely on paper be­
compared to $3.7 million for the $67,350 was salary, and Frank cause it was forced to list fu­1986-87 period. Woschitz, the public relations ture severance pay. 
Dues for the earlier period ~-~ 
were $2,400 per player com­
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY*
pared to $2,000 in the later 
report. Still, even at the lower 
*C. B.S. 

NOTRE DAME
figure, that comes out to just 438 players who paid up. 

OFFICEOF . 
But Gene Upshaw, the 

'AMPUS Lenten Bzble Study 
vs
union's executive director, said 

\l_ STDv r Tuesday, February 7 and
Tuesday that the period cov­

MINI IV all Tuesdays during Lent-­
ered was one in which there 

Michigan State
University ol Noire Dome Noire Dome, IN 46556 
was no automatic dues 
checkoff--by which the teams 

Meetings: 7:15 P.M.
automatically pay dues to the 
union from the player's payc­

one hour sessions
hecks. As a result, players had 
to make direct payments to the 

(bring your own Bible) 
union. 

Wednesday, February 1
in the Confereltce Room 
of
"We didn't even start collect­

7:00p.m.
Office .of Campus Ministry
ing dues until December," said 

JACC Arena
Upshaw, whose salary of 

Badin Hall 
$164,847 during the period 

-
represents a four-percent in­crease over the previous 
$2 AdultS/$1 Students
Fr. Al D'Alonzo, C.S.C.
year's. "The period in the 

Bl~e-Gold Cards Accepted
report ends March 1 and we kept on collecting dues. We 

will direct the bible study 
have a majority of players paying now.'' 

for additional information call: 
PACK THE PIT! PACK THE PIT!
The report came a month 
239-5577 

PACK THE PIT! PACK THE PIT!
after two reports that the Labor 
Department had passed along 

PACK THE PIT! PACK THE PIT!
information from its audit of 

Members of the Notre Dame Family the NFLPA to the Justice De· invited to attend 
partment for possible action...•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••llliAiloilwoiiRKils. 
Wednesday, February 1, 1989 The Observer 
pa e 15 

Several NFL stars could become free agents 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Many will be household names. Some may even be legends. On Wednes­day, many ofthe NFL's biggest stars could become free agents when the league puts into effect its new contract plan. 
A radical departure from the old free agency system, it is being imposed unilaterally without a union contract and will unconditionally free more than 600 players. Each team will be allowed to protect just 37 of the average of 59 on its roster. 
"You'll see Super Bowl players, Pro Bowl players, very big names," said Tex Schramm, president ofthe Dal­las Cowboys and a member of the owners' Management Council. 
"But there will be reasons for them--they'll be bad medical risks, they'll be older. A lot of them will be getting good salaries, own homes in the area, things like that. They won't want to move." 
Under the old plan, players offered a contract by another team could move only after their team waived its right of first refusal. The new team would also have to compensate the old one with draft choices. 
Only two players in 10 years moved under that system, most recently, linebacker Wilber Marshall of Chicago, who signed a $6 million, five-year contract last year with Wash­ington. He joined the Redskins after the Bears declined to match the offer and Chicago got two first-round draft picks in return. 
Parts of that system remain in effect--protected players whose contracts have expired still would be subject to first refusal, and teams signing them would have to part with draft choices. The rest, under contract or not, will be free un­til Aprill to go elsewhere with­out compensation. 
Although few teams have identified unprotected players, the consensus is that most will protect younger players with potential while leaving older, more established players ur.­
protected. The older ones have less incentive to move; high salaries, or injury problems that make them unatractive to prospective bidders. 
The Chicago Bears, for ex­ample, have already said they will not protect three starters from their 1986 Super Bowl champions, including 31-year­old linebacker Otis Wilson and cornerback Mike Richardson, 
28. Wilson, coming off reconstructive knee surgery, vowed to return to haunt the Bears. 
The New York Giants will probably leave unprotected 29­year-old nose tackle Jim Burt, who has a history of back prob­lems, and starting guard Billy Ard, also 29. 
Others likely to be set free include quarterback Danny White and defensive tackle Randy White of Dallas; run­ning back Tony Dorsett, defen­sive end Rulon Jones and cor­nerback Mark Haynes of Denver; running back Ottis An­derson of the Giants; defensive end Bruce Clark and nose tackle Tony Elliott of New Or­leans and center Dwight Step­henson, the perennial All-Pro center of the Miami Dolphins who missed all of the 1988 season with a serious knee in­jury. 
Stephenson is a classic case of a player who wouldn't want to leave and who is unlikely to get a major offer because of his knee problems. 
NOW THAT YOU'RE FINISHED WHERE DO YOU START? 
Graduation probably represents the end of a race well run. 
But with every company telling you how bright your future is, how do you decide where to start your career? To begin, you'll have to ask the right questions. What are the entry-level jobs for someone with your major? How 
well will you be trained? Will you be pigeonholed, or will you have a chance to explore diverse career opportunities? 
The Travelers, a $50 billion insurance and financial services leader, offers positions in insurance, finance, actuarial, management, data proc­essing and much more. We have great training to start-with, and varied career paths to pursue as you develop your skills. 
So, now that you're finished, why not start with The Travelers ... and begin the real race? 
We'll be on campus Wednesday, February 15th and Thursday, February 16th. To schedule an interview, sign up in the Career/Placement office. 
TheTraveler~ 
You're better off under the Umbrella~M 
Knicks defeat Pacers, stay hot at home 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Reserves Gerald Wilkins and Kenny Walker scored New York's first 11 points of a 16-5 second-half spurt that carried the Knicks to their 15th consecutive home victory Tuesday night, a 120­111 decision over the Indiana Pacers. 
The win gave New York an 18-1 home record and a 10-6 mark in January, the first time since February 1984 the Knicks won 10 games in a month. 
Despite their 1-20 road record, the Pacers stayed close as Chuck Person scored 47 points, five more than his pre­vious career high. Indiana did not wilt in the fourth quarter despite losing point guard Vern Fleming to a sprained left ankle. 
The Knicks were led by Charles Oakley with 22 points and Johnny Newman with 19. 
New York appeared to take control with an 82-73 lead in the third period but three baskets by Person and a free throw by Reggie Miller got Indiana within two with 2:26 left. Wilkins then scored six points and Kenny Walker five, includ­ing a 3-pointer, giving New York a 93-83 lead. 
A 3-pointer by Trent Tucker and a basket by Patrick Ewing made it 98-85 and the Pacers got no closer than five after that. 
Person scored 16 points in the first quarter and the Pacers shot 15-for-23 in taking a 37-31 lead. 
The Knicks started the second quarter with a 25-13 run for a 56-50 advantage but Per­son scored the first six points of an 8-0 run as Indiana regained the lead. A 3-pointer by Newman gave the Knicks a 63-60 edge at halftime. 



The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

The Observer Wednesday, February 1, 1989
page 16 


•
Five ND players 1n combine 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS --The NFL's annual scouting com­bine, a chance for the league's scouts, coaches and general managers to test and interview more than 300 of the nation's top college seniors, begins Thursday at the Hoosier Dome. 
Among those expected to participate are UCLA quarter­back Troy Aikman, the projected No.1 pick in the April 23-24 college draft, and offen­sive tackle Andy Heck and de­fensive end Frank Starns, both All-Americans from national champion Notre Dame. 
The four-day program, closed to the public and the media, will include physical ex­aminations, drug tests, intelli­gence tests and evaluations of strength, agility, speed and football skills. 
Also in town will be virtually every coaching staff and most general managers in the NFL. Indianapolis has been chosen as a regular site not only for the climate-controlled condi­tions of the Hoosier Dome but also because the Dome is near many downtown hotels. 
Agents trying to corner the uncommitted athletes also will be hanging around the lobbies. 
For Coach Ron Meyer of the Indianapolis Colts, the meetings are an opportunity to check out talent first-hand, al­beit in non-contact situations. But Meyer says a player's time in the 40-yard dash may be­come less important than his overall desire and willingness 
Tomazic 
continued from page 20 
last weekend in the National Catholics at the 167-pound divi­sion. 
"That was the best I ever wrestled," stated Tomazic. "I couldn't have been more satisfied with my perfor­mance." 
As a freshman, Tomazic compiled a 15-14-1 record in his first ever college season. 
"It was a big turnaround from high school," said Tomazic. "I learned more last year then I ever have before." 
At California, Tomazic starred for El Dorado High, the same school from which Olym­pic three-time gold medal­winning swimmer Janet Evans will graduate this summer. 
Tomazic is learning the col­
lege game from one of the best 
in the nation. Wrestling against 
Geneser every day in practice, 
he has gained valuable experi­
ence from one of Notre Dame's 
greatest wrestlers ever. 
Irish coaches have been very 
pleased with his progress this 
year, especially with his two 
wins against Scott Chenoweth 
and his victory in the National 
Catholics. 
"There is no doubt he is able to make the NCAA Tourna­ment," exclaimed McCann. "It is a mental game, and if he can overcome that hurdle he could go very far." 
Tomazic will be looking to ex­
tend his record to 17-10 with a 
win against Michigan State, 
but he also has his sights set on 
reaching the NCAAs later this 
season. 
"My goal is to make the 
tournament," said Tomazic. 
"The way I've been wrestling 
lately, I really believe I can 
make it." 

to compete. 
"During this week, we use a great deal of personal one-on­one visitation," said Meyer. "We don't give a lot of psycho­logical tests like some clubs do, but I like to interview and get to know as many players as possible.'' 
A year ago, O'Brien Alston was an obscure linebacker from Maryland who had uni­mpressive workouts at the Hoosier Dome. But judging 

Andy Heck 
partly from interviews, the Colts decided Alston was worth another look and sent linebacker coach Rick Venturi to visit him on campus. Venturi liked Alston, the Colts drafted him in the lOth round and he quickly developed into a 
LAST YEAI7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. . ; ~ 1\ \ . 
,.,·. ·~, ,.. '-)f-_l
\ ' j. . J • . '
I · -t. \ \ • • ///'I f ·.. ~ "-. :~ ...-// · 
~-~~-~)~
~ DOif'fiMIIvti*UIIIk,OIIJIIIKWtTHAIYOtnWHOVO(~ 
Chimes Literary Ma8ezine 
now acceplin8 
C>ubmit to 303 Madelva, C>MC Deadline: March 20 
starter last season as a rookie. 
Heck and Starns are among five players from unbeaten Notre Dame invited to the camp. The others are linebacker Wes Pritchett, the team's leading tackler, tail­back Mark Green and safety George Streeter. 
From Purdue, safety Marc Foster and linebacker Jerrol Williams will be here. Foster, a two-time member of the All­Big Ten team, had 325 career tackles and tied Rod Woodson's school record with 11 intercep­tions. Two years ago, Woodson was the talk of the combine after dazzling scouts with his athletic ability. 
From Indiana will come of­fensive tackle Chris Simons, placekicker Pete Stoyanovich and tight end Tim Jorden. Stoyanovich, who never missed an extra-point kick in his col­lege career, is projected to go fairly early in the draft. 
Another player invited to the 
·workouts is Greg Werner, a tight end from DePauw. Werner had 119 receptions for 1,742 yards and 17 touchdowns as a three-year starter at DePauw. Also a pitcher with a chance to be picked in the baseball draft, Werner could become the first DePauw foot­ball player ever to be selecte in the NFL draft. 


The Observer I File Photo 
All-America defensive end Frank Starns heads to this week's NFL combine with four Notre Dame teammates. The combine, held In the Hoosier Dome, Is used by NFL scouts to judge many of the top pro prospects coming out of college. 
Charles anci MMgaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism 
presents 

THE BLACK CATHOLIC COMMUNITY PRIOR TO THE CIVIL WAR 
Professor Cyprian Davis, OSB 
History Department 
St. Meinrad College 
Thursday, february 2, 1989 
4:15P.M. 

Hesburgh Library Lounge 
University of Notre Dame 
American Catholic Studies Seminar 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3r 1989 ELKS LODGE 
9:00-2:00 

Dj Irefreshments {
. . . . 
Transpor;tpti_pn
prOVIded
to qnd from 
dance 

Tickets: On sale today, tomorrow and Friday In Junior Class Office from 1:30 to 4:00. 

-----~---~----~ -------------~~~--------------­
The Observer page 17 
ND baseball team to play USC _,.. during week of football game 
many college baseball fol­lowers by sweeping the games from the Hurricanes, who have reached the NCAA tournament each of the last 16 years. 
The Irish won 11-2 in the first game of that series, then came away with a 9-8 decision in the rematch. 
Notre Dame posted a 39-22 record last season, which in­cluded a school-record 16­game winning streak and a no-hitter by junior pitcher Brian Piotrowicz. Those 39 victories also set a Notre Dame season record. 
work and termed it as 'The War You Don't Want to Miss,'" said Murphy. 
Notre Dame called last fall's two-game series, played the week of the Notre Dame-Miami football game, "The Battle Before the War." 
The Irish open their home schedule March 29 against Chicago State. 
After back-to-back losing seasons, Murphy successfully parlayed a play on the classic song, "You've Lost That Lovin' Feeling," into a winning season. He has returned to pop culture in choosing a theme for this year's team. 
"Last year, it was 'Bring Back That Winning Feeling,' " said Murphy. "You know that Nike commercial, 'Just Do It?' That's our theme for this year, 'The Best Is Yet to Come: Just Do It.' " 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
Flyers battled back and forged a 20-20 tie with eight minutes left on Negele Knight's six­footer in the lane. Knight finished with 13. 
Elmer Bennett scored the last four points of the half to provide the Irish with a 39-31 halftime lead, but the issue was still very much in doubt until midway through the second half. Knight's 10-foot jumper with 10: 50 remaining kept the margin within striking dis­tance at 58-50, but the Irish slowly pulled away and Dayton could not climb within eight points the rest of the way. 
"One thing we had talked a little earlier than we wanted to because of foul trouble," said Phelps, referring to Tim Singleton's four and Fredrick's three personal fouls early in the second half. "But we got what we wanted out of the game. We saw what they could do." 
Freshmen Daimon Sweet (14 points) and Bennett (12) played 24 and 18 minutes against the Flyers, respectively. 
The Irish don't get much of a break before heading into an­other home contest against Marquette tomorrow at 8 p.m. 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke a lifesaving Red Cross CPR course. 
+AmericanRedCross 

rm 
Special to The Observer 
After sweeping the Uni­versity of Miami in an ex­hibition baseball series last fall, the Notre Dame baseball team has signed to play another big-name baseball team next autumn. 
In the week leading to the 1989 Notre Dame-Southern California football game, the Irish and Trojan baseball teams will meet twice at South Bend's Stanley Coveleski Stadium. 
The two exhibition baseball games are sched­uled for Thursday, Oct. 19, 
The Observer I Scott McCann 
Establishing position, Irish center Keith Robinson battles Dayton's Wes Coffee for a rebound. Notre Dame won most of the skirmishes In the paint, outreboundlng the Flyers 46-28. 

~o~e 
Peltier 
continued from page 20 
Murphy. 
After playing right field during his freshman and soph­omore years, Peltier moves to centerfield this season. 
CoppertoneBaseball America also mentioned Pesavento, a shortstop, in its "others to watch" section. 
Pesavento, an nth-round se­lection by the Toronto Blue Jays last spring, turned down the offer and returned to Notre Dame. 
"People better not forget about Pesavento," said Murphy. "If they just concen­trate on Peltier, Pesavento will beat them: He'll get a base hit to left, steal a base, whatever he has to do to win." 
Coming off a 39-22 seasonand Friday, Oct. 21. The Irish football team clashes with USC on Saturday, Oct. 22, at Notre Dame Stadium. 



Southern Cal perhaps had the dominant collegiate baseball program of the 1970s. The Trojans consis­tently are one of the top teams in the Pac 10, the best baseball conference in the country. 
Before last fall's Notre Dame-Miami game, the Irish baseball team played a two-game exhibition series with the Miami baseball team. 
Notre Dame surprised 
that featured a 16-game win­ning streak down the stretch, the Irish open the new cam­paign Feb. 23 against Trinity. 
After that opening-day game at San Antonio, Tex., the Irish head upstate for a matchup with perennial College World Series participant Texas. 
"That's the ultimate road game," said Murphy. "There will be no more than 10 friendly faces in a crowd of 10,000-plus. It'll be their 16th game and our second." 
The Irish follow the Texas road trip with six games in Florida and four contests at North Carolina. The Florida trip includes a rematch with Miami March 8. The Hur­ricanes will look to avenge last fall's 11-2 and 9-8 losses at Notre Dame. 
"Miami's already come out public on the Mutual Radio Net­

---------~--------­
page 18 The Observer 
The Observer I Paul Compton The Notre Dame basketball fans of today cheer fans of yesteryear as the noisiest and most In· on the Irish In an early-season victory over In-tlmldatlng he has seen. diana. CBS· TV analyst Billy Packer tabs the Irish 
The greatest fans of all time 
Packer cites ND crowd in '77 USF game as best ever 
Associated Press 
Billy Packer has no trouble remembering the best college basketball crowd he ever saw. He can't forget the roar. 
"The University of San Fran­cisco in 1977 was undefeated and ranked No. 1in the nation," said Packer, the CBS-TV col­lege basketball analyst, remembering the game at Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center. 
"Digger Phelps probably had one of his greatest games ever in terms of keeping the crowd ready. He kept his team in the locker room and came out and worked the crowd. Meanwhile, the San Francisco players are out on the court shooting baskets, looking around, taking this in. 
"This goes on for awhile. When Digger has it to the high­est peak possible, Notre Dame comes out onto the court. The toilet paper comes flying down, the crowd goes crazy. It was mind-boggling. The sound was deafening. 
"By the time the game started, the game was over. It had gotten to San Francisco. They lost the next game. They never did anything in the tourn­ament. They never recovered." 
Notre Dame won 93-82, the Dons' first loss of the season. San Francisco then lost to 
Yesterday's author was 
right--I know few people who :~:~ look like these models, and I :::: don't think I'd hang out with } 
somebody who enjoyed being :~~~ 
photographed with sand all :;:; over her scantily-clad body. ::~: Though a cliche, it is true :~:~ 
that beauty is only skin deep. }
But alone, these pictures are :;: not dangerous. They do not ~=~ make men ridicule women who :::: 
eat ice cream. I wouldn't date} a girl that wouldn't get an ice :r cream with me occasionally. :~;:: Even if she were Kim Alexis. =~~: 
And the pictures in the SI :;: swimsuit issue seem a lot less :;:: dangerous and a little more vis-:~:j:ually appealing than the violent ::~:: 
bloodbath pictures seen in pro-~=~: 
fessional wrestling magazines ::: located just a fishnet's throw ::~;: from the milk and eggs at the:~:~: 

Nevada-Las Vegas 121-95 in the opening round of the NCAA tournament. 
::~: 

Packer thinks Phelps may be able to do more with a home crowd than any other coach. 
"He had the ability to incite an emotional atmosphere about a certain game," Packer said. "It may have a tendency to hurt his team during the NCAA tournament because you can't sustain that over a three­week stretch." 
Packer said the best crowds on a regular basis show up at Thomas and Mack Arena, the home of Nevada-Las Vegas. 
"The entire pre-game celebration is designed and choreographed by the students. With the fireworks and the light displays and the smoke and Tark (Coach Jerry Tarkanian) going across the top of the ceiling. It really throws the visiting teams. 
"Then in the front-row seats, you see the people who own casinos root like hell, as if it was their sons and daughters playing. They root like crazy. I think it's an escape from their normal work. 
"I told (Missouri coach) Norm Stewart last year: Take your team off the court prior to all that pre-game hoopla and don't let them see it. No matter who you are, it's going to dis­tract you. I would suggest that anybody who plays there, does 
{

Wed 
::::} 
:~:~ ~:~:Cross the border =~=~ ~:~:
•th f • J :::: ::::
WI pro essiona =~=~ 
~:~:

J & F :~:~
D unnyman ~=~= 
:~;~

st ::::
eve ~=~= 
:~:!

KI.mbro h ~=~=
UQ ::;: 
:~:~ 

1
TAKE NQTE.• :::: 
that. Now Missouri beat them (81-79). I'm not taking credit for it, mind you." 
Packer thinks Duke's crowd is right behind. 
"They have been some of the most unmerciful crowds in terms of how they can get on a given olaver or a given team. I remember them wearing Lefty Driesell masks (parodying the former Maryland coach). They threw pizza boxes at NC State after it had an incident involving piz­za. Mter one incident, they threw car keys. After a team had an incident with a girl, they threw panties on the court." 
Packer also remembers a game when the crowd lost con­trol, when Louisville traveled to Memphis State in the early 1980s. 
"The crowd lost perspective. They were constantly throwing money. Someone threw a knife onto the court, an open switchblade." 
At the other extreme is the crowd that's completely silent. 
"The worst crowd would be the opening round of the ACC tournament. When No. 1 plays No. 8, it's a totally social crowd, the people who have contributed the most money to the various schools. The only people who pay attention are those with the teams involved. Everyone else is socializing." 
::::f :::: 

Wednesday, February 1, 1989 
IH hockey continues; divisional races form 
By ARTHUR 
GOLLWITZER 
Sports Writer 
The Interhall hockey season had its opening faceoff in December and has resumed in force since the start of the new semester. 
Heading into Tuesday night's games, perennial powers Grace, Dillon and Off-Campus were in contention for the Gold Division title, while Stanford and Alumni are rising to the top of the Blue Division. 
The six-game season cul­minates in February with a tournament involving the top two teams in their respective divisions. 
Off-Campus, led by captain John Kirk, is on the road to defending its 1988 crown. The team has scored 23 goals while allowing only two in their two victories. 
Grace and Dillon are two other undefeated teams in the Gold Division. Grace is hoping to rebound from last year's loss in the championship game, while Dillon is relying on a combination of veteran talent and youth. Dillon's team in­cludes captain Marty Hull, vet-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Irish Insanity will meet at 7:30 tonight in the Dooley 
Room on the first floor of LaFortune to discuss plans for 
the Duke game. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVIII has an open assistant commissioner position. Any freshman or sophomore in­terested in being assistant commissioner can pick up an application at the student government secretary's office on the the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due Tuesday. Any questions should be directed to Mike aat x3305. -The Observer 

I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL CENTER LTD. 

CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTEQ. 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135 
eran Chris Poppe, freshman center Mark Zoia and freshman goalie Chris Ohlmeyer. Dillon's stingy defense will be the key element in its title contention, having al­lowed only four goals in its two victories. 
In Gold Division action last week, Off-Campus defeated Flanner 13-0, Morrissey topped Keenan 9-3, Grace skated past St. Edward'S" Holy Cross 7-4 and Dillon iced Morrissey 4-2. This action leaves Morrissey in contention with a 2-1 record, but Flanner, Keenan and St. Ed'sHoly Cross need some wins soon. 
Alumni leads the Blue Divison with a 3-0 record. The main factor in Alumni's suc­cess this season is its potent of­fense. The front line of Steve Vairo, Mike Flynn and Pat Hogan leads a unit that averages almost eight goals a game. Despite the impressive record, Hogan is cautious. He said, "We have "We have a young defense, and we are struggling a little," said the Alumni captain. "We need to play a little better to seriously contend." 

supermarket. :::: n :;:; 
Join I The Blues are coming I 
The Observer ·:::~·.·····························...................·.·············.....·.·····...........·.·································.....·..... ·.··· .....·.·.···································:·.. ~==============±~
~---------___} ............................................·.·.·.··•··•··········•······.....................................................·.·.···········.....•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.·.·.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.·.• ­
L_ 

Wednesday, February 1, 1989 
CAMPUS 
12:10..1 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
7:30..9:30 p.m. Department of Anthropology Year of Cultural Diversity Panel Discussion. Theme: The Year of Cultural Diversity: An Anthropological Perspective, Library Lounge. 
4:15p.m., Feb. 2 American Catholic Studies Seminar: "The Black Catholic Community Prior to the Civil War," by Cyprian Davis, Saint Meinrad College. 
8 p.m., Feb. 2 "The Functions of Music in Shakespeare's Plays Othello and Twelfth Night," by Miriam Gilbert, University of Iowa. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Grilled Pastrami Roast Turkey Pepperoni Pizza Veg. Rice Casserole 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
COMICS 
Saint Mary's 
Spaghetti Lasagna Fettucini Alfredo Rotini w/ Clam Sauce 
The Observer page 19 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
F.t'::i+::+.':+:'-1 13 0 rien t 8::.:+:::+.:::+:-:-t 21 Horrid -~~+=! 22 Identification 
mark 

58 Sending nary a note on Feb. 14? 63 Vapor: Comb. · form 
64 "Middling" bones: Comb. form 
65 "Behold," dear Brutus 66 Sector 67 Why some carry a torch? 68 Singe 
69 Split 

10 Stiller's partner 
71 Lug 
DOWN 
1 PartofTV 
2 Ins\. of higher 

learning 3 One minus one 4 Sharp 5 Cupidity 6 Flagging 7 Ubiquitous 
puzzle plant 8 These often attract tourists 9 Weems or Williams 

25 Former draft initials 
26 Do a bouncer's job 
28 Roman official 30 Groove 32 Moslem's 
religion 33 Facing a glacier 

34 Ilk and sort 36 House painter's 
excellent job? 40 Try 43 Orem is here 44 lsr. neighbor 46 Spouse of Ivan 
or Peter 47 Interval 52"0ver-," 
Cohan song 54 Choose 55 Early late-night 
host 56 To be, in Toulon 57 Church cdrner 59 Lohengrin's wife 60 Canyon 
phenomenon 61 Gil' 62Arid 64 Jack of clubs 
......... 

"I used to be somebody ... big executive ... my own company ... and then one day someone yelled, 'Hey! He's just a big cockroach!"' 
ACROSS 
1 Bluefin 
5 Separate 
10 Liberate 14 Chemical 
compound 15 Cherish 16 Scintilla 17 Train 18 Eschew 19 Decays 20 Always jealous? 22 Attack 23 Crop 24 Similar 26 Before, to the 
Bard 29 Summer treats 
31 Red Guard, e.g. 35 The last 011e is 
not least. 37 Reliable 38 Arabian prince 39 Due follower 41 Hogwash 42 Large, showy 
herb 45Augment 48 Event at 
Versailles: 1919 49 Hewing tool 50 Writers' output, 
for short 51 Piquant 53 Comfort 55 Alberta item 


Buzz McFiattop 

Mike Muldoon 

STUDENT UNION BOARD Presents ... 

COMEDY ZONE
Thursday: 

Friday: 
M 0 itf
SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL 
WILLOW
v 
I 
E 
... 
Steve Seagren Mark Reedy s Thursday 9 pm in Theodore's 



Sports 
Wednesday, February 1, 1989
eeye 20 

Robinson shines in Irish win 
Center records 16 points, 11 rebounds in 85-75 triumph 
By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team ran and boarded its way to an 85-75 victory over Dayton last night at the JACC, and in the process gave center Keith Robinson a rare moment in the sun. 
The 6-9, 225-pound center col­lected 16 points, 11 rebounds and some accolades from Irish head coach Digger Phelps after the game. 
"Robinson is our Mr. Invin­cible," said Phelps, who watched his squad improve to 11-3 on the year. "He is the most underrated player in the country. He gets key offensive and defensive rebounds, and also scores the key baskets. If they were to rank the top five guys who make a team go, and never get recognition, Keith would be first-team All­American." 
Phelps had good reason to pass around the praise after seeing the Irish bump their NCAA-leading rebounding margin (¢12 per game) even higher against the Flyers. Notre Dame had 46 rebounds, including 16 offensive boards, to Dayton's 28. 

"The guards did a great job of getting the ball up the floor once we kicked it out to them," said Robinson, who has often labored in the shadows of LaP­honso Ellis and Joe Fredrick this season while posting con­sistent numbers himself. 

Keith Robinson 
"Tonight we were just able to get good position inside, get the boards and get our running game going." 
That, according to Flyers head coach Don Donoher, was the difference. 
"Between not being able to get enough rebounds and not being able to stop their running 
Why all the fuss over swimsuit issue? 
The following is a response to yesterday's page-two column on the evils of Sports Illustrated's Swimsuit issue and to all who hold views concurrent to those of the author. Oh, lighten up! 
As a sports writer, I felt it was my obligation to stick up for the most popular and successful sports magazine in America. 
And an entire gender has been unjustifiably ravaged. Moreover, I am of that gender. There probably are a few men on this campus drooling right now in anticipation of receiving the magazine. 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 


And there are just as many girls drooling over their posters of Patrick Swayze or some shirtless Joe Bob in tight jeans sitting on the hood of a red convertible. 
Then these girls head off to sit on the pool tables at Bridget's. Probably somewhere near the aforementioned drooling guys. 
You will find people like that everywhere, though I'd like to think they are in the minority. 
Men here criticize women. Look at the Keenan Revue. 
Women here criticize men. Look at Pop Farley's Talent Show. 
But the majority of this ribbing (speaking of ribs, girls, remember where you came from) is innocent smart-aleck fun-poking. It is college humor and it is normal. 
Girls will get grief about sweatpants for a long time, just as guys will get grief about baseball hats. 
In general, we really do like most girls. We foolishly love some, stubbornly abhor others. I trust these feelings are mutual. 
Let's get to sports, though. 

Something was said about Sports Illustrated acting under the "auspices of a legitimate 'sports' magazine." It is a legitimate sports magazine--in fact, one of the best. 
Sports Illustrated does several features on issues other than touchdowns and dunks. One of its best pieces last year was a feature on beer. A few weeks ago, SI did a feature on then-President-elect George Bush and his love of athletic activity. 
The swimsuit issue is yet another extension of this venture by taking a look at innovative swimsuits on physically-fit women in exotic settings. 
The emphasis on physical attractiveness should be taken 
see ITEMS, page 18 
about before the game," said Ellis, who had seven rebounds, "was that we wanted to go out and control the tempo right away, before we had to come from behind or make things in­teresting. I think we did that." 
Phelps also accomplished his goal of getting some of his younger players some experi­ence while resting the starters, who will bear the brunt of the four-games-in-eight-days stretch the Irish are playing through. 
"We had to go to our bench game, we just weren't able to make a run at it," said a subdued Dono her, who is in his 25th year with the Flyers. "It sure helps your running game when you're able to rebound like (Notre Dame) did. But our inside guys' rebounding was a joke." 
Ellis led the Irish with 18 points, and he and Robinson made a formidable tandem against the outmanned Flyer frontcourt. Anthony Corbitt led Dayton with 15 points. 
The Irish looked like they might run away with it early after an Ellis tip-in staked Notre Dame to a 13-4 lead. The 
see IRISH, page 17 

Wrestlers host Michigan St. 
National Catholics champion Tomazic is making strides 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team will try to continue its winning ways against Mic­higan State tonight at 8 p.m. in the Joyce ACC arena. 
The Irish (6-1) are fresh off an impressive victory in the Catholic National Tournament last Sunday. Sportsvision will tape tonight's match and air it on Feb. 3. 
Michigan State is the third team out of the Big 10 to chal­lenge Notre Dame this season. Thus far, the Irish are 2-0 against the most powerful wrestling conference in the country. 

"Michigan State is one of the more physical teams we will wrestle," said Irish coach Fran McCann. "Before the Iowa domination, Michigan State was the best in college wres­tling." 
Notre Dame beat the Spar­tans for the first time 23-20 last year in East Lansing. Michigan State returns seven of its 10 wrestlers from last year, in­cluding one of the country's best in 142-pound Stacy Rich­mond. 
Notre Dame will counter with its usual lineup, which in­eludes Andy Radenbaugh, Pat Boyd, Marcus Gowens, Todd Layton, Mark Gerardi, and Chuck Weaver. Notre Dame's 
all-time career victory leader, Jerry Durso, will try to add to his record. Another senior, Chris Geneser, will attempt to move up in the all time stand­ings. 
Radenbaugh leads the team with 28 wins in wins with 28, will try to continue his domina­tion at the 118-pound division. 
Sophomore Todd Tomazic is also expecting big things in the rest of the season. The Placen­tia, Calif., native is coming off his first tournament win ever 
see TOMAZIC, page 16 

NO's Peltier an All-American 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Three weeks before the season's first pitch, members of the Notre Dame baseball team are catching national at­tention. 
Senior Pat Pesavento and JUmor Dan Peltier both received mention on this year's Collegiate Baseball pre-season issue. 
Peltier was one of six out­fielders selected to the Copper­tone-Collegiate Baseball pre­season All-America team. 
As a right fielder last season, Peltier led the Midwest Col­legiate Conference with a .414 batting average and also set Notre Dame single-season records with 21 doubles and 89 hits. After the season, Peltier was named a third-team Aca­demic All-American. 
The Clifton Park, N.Y., resi­dent also recorded an on-base percentage of .581 with seven home runs and 70 runs batted in during his standout 61-game season. 


~. 


Dan Peltier 

"His biggest contribution is his attitude and the way he represents Notre Dame," said second-year Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy. "He also has out­standing ability, he's a fierce competitor and he comes to play each and every time." 
As successful as Peltier was during his sophomore season, his accomplishments in last year's post-season MCC tourn­ament and this fall's two-game series with Miami probably earned him a position on the team. 
Peltier had 9hits in 13 at bats during the MCC tourney, in­cluding a 4-of-4 performance against Evansville's Andy Benes, the first selection in last spring's major league draft. 
In Notre Dame's two-game sweep of Miami last October, Peltier went 5-of -8 with a 2-of-3 outing off the Hurricanes' Alex Fernandez, another first-round pick in last spring's draft. 
"Whenever you're compet­ing with people of that caliber and come out as well as he did, you've got to be considered for some kind of honor," said 
see PEL TIER, page 17 





