
Still dreary 
Partly cloudy and cold today 
with a few flurries possible, 
high in the 30s. Mostly 
sunny Wednesday, high near 
/ACCENT: Album Reviews 
IVIEWPOINT: An honor code that works 
40. 

VOL. XXII, NO. 104 TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1989 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's • , 
Results of class elections 
One winning ticket, two run-offs to be held 
By KENDRA MORRILL Senior Staff Reporter 
Class elections ended with one definite winner and two runoffs after ballots were counted Monday night by Om­budsman. 
The Class of 1991 ticket of Rob Pasin, Mike Shinnick, Molly Grunenwald and Jennifer Linting received the necessary majority vote of 53.7 percent to win next year's junior class of­fice. 
The Class of 1990 tickets of Rey and West and the Class of 1992 tickets of Ferguson and Coffey will participate in a run­off election Wednesday. 
The Rey ticket with Carolyn Rey, Tom King, Caroline Klein and Bob Groth received 47.3 percent of votes while the West ticket with Rod West, Pat Eilers, Jennifer Trucano and Greg Talbot pulled in 29.5 per­cent. 
The Cla.ss of 1992 Ferguson ticket of Mike Ferguson, Ted Stumpf, Chrissy Harper and Julie Robertson received the members. The Coffey ticket with John Coffey, Jennifer Swit­zer, Megan Weyer and Sean O'Neill received 23.9 percent. 
Also running for next year's senior class office was the the Farraher ticket of Jay Far­raher, Kevin Corazon, Diane Toohey and Megan Hanley, re­ceiving 23.2 percent of voter support. 
Running for the Class of 1991 office were Joan Meissner, Stu Healy, Karen Mcintire and Jim Lang with 19 percent of the votes; Pat Souter, Phil Couri, Steve Archer and Dave Rosen­berg with 11 percent; John Romanelli, Mike Faehner, Eileen Perkins and Annie But­kovich with 10.2 percent; and Lawlor Quinlan, Javier Marques, John Bransfield and Jeff Keating with 6.1 percent. The Class of 1992 candidates were Terry Coyne, Elizabeth Toohey, Allison White and Tim Thornton with 15 percent of votes; Jim Joyce, Jon Paul Potts, Chenoa Topash and Jenny Coyne with 9.4 percent; Ralph Calico, Karen Kaufman, 
support of 24.8 percent of class Sheila Jones and Steve Hanson 
Students abroad won't vote in student elections 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Senior Staff Reporter 
Student senate this week voted to support the decision of the Ombudsman Commit­tee, which ruled the possibil­ity of foreign studies stu­dents voting in student body elections was infeasible. 
The decision came after the Senate met with Victor DeFrancis, a member of the OBUD executive commit­tee, who presented the issue for senate support. 

The controversy originated earlier this week when former student body president and vice president candidates protested that all overseas students' votes had not been counted before the winners of the student body elections were announced. 
The problem, according to DeFrancis, is that many 
See SENATE, page 5 
with 7.9 percent; Jay Wasinda, Kristen Mole, Michelle Tam­bor and Tom Gibbons with 7.1 percent; John Stoj, Thuy Ledinh, Mark Lawless and Henry Chou with 6.5 percent; and Henry Mark, Anne Sur line, Gabriela Clark and Mark Reuter with 5.4 percent. 
"We want to thank everyone who helped us with our cam­paign and voted for us," said Rob Pasin, newly elected pres­ident of the Class of 1991. "We also want to commend the other tickets for a really good race." 
"We're just really ecstatic with our early victory," said 

Pasin, whose  ticket  won  the  
junior  class  race  with  a  
majority vote.  

"I'm just happy to be in," said John Coffey, who leads one of the tickets in the run-off for the sophomore class officers. 
"We have one more day to campaign; we have to hit more people," said Coffey. "We'll go door-to-door and hopefully ('rank some votes out." 
See ELECTION, page 5 




are reported 
111111111111111 Indicates RUN-OFF 

------·47.3%
----29.5 ---23.2 
.................527% 
--·19 -11 
-10.2 
.6.1 

~ ~~ ~~HY.o ~~... ~~ 
' ' ' ~ __,, ,... ,~,, ~ 24.8% 
llmlmmlflll23.9
--15
~.4 
-7.9 -7.1 
.-s.5 
111!111!11!1111 Indicates RUN-OFF 
115.4 

SOURCE: Ombudsman 
The Observer 

19 Marines killed, 16 injured when helicopter crashes in South Korea 
Associated Press part in exercises with South 
Korean forces, a Marine Corps 

SEOUL, South Korea-spokesman said. Nineteen Marines were killed All 34 Marines aboard the and 16 injured today when a aircraft were killed or injured, helicopter crashed in remote the spokesman said on condi­mountains, officials said. It tion of anonymity. Those hurt was the second Marine chopper included 15 Marines aboard the disaster in South Korea in four helicopter and one hurt on the days. ground during rescue opera­
The troop-carrying CH53-D tions. sea Stallion helicopter crashed Nine of the injured were near the port of Pohang on the listed in very serious condition southeast coast while taking with burns, four were in serious condition, and the status of three was undetermined, hospital officials said. 
Marine officials initially said 22 Marines were killed in the crash, but later lowered the fig­ure to 19 because of confusion in early reports from the crash site. 
The helicopter was carrying four crewmen and 30 in­fantrymen when it crashed, the 
See MARINES, page 4 ' 

AP Photo Election workers for the rightist Republican National San Salvador Sunday after ARENA claimed victory 
Cristiani, of the Republican

Alliance party, ARENA, celebrate in the streets of in El Salvador's presidential elections. Nationalist Alliance, or Arena, 
El Salvador names victor of election 
Associated Press 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador-Alfredo Cristiani, who has tried to end memories of his right-wing party's links to death squads that killed thousands of his countrymen, was recognized as the victor 
Monday  in  the  presidential  
election.  
Fidel  Chavez  Mena,  can­ 

didate of the incumbent Chris­tian Democrats, conceded and told a news conference, "I have called him personally to con­gratulate him and express my desire that God illuminate him in governing the country." 
will take over from President Jose Napoleon Duarte on June 
1. Although Duarte was one of the United States' top allies, he was unable to end nine years of civil war with leftist rebels that left 70,000 dead. 
In Washington, the State De­partment said it was prepared to support the new Salvadoran government, but only if it protects democracy and protects human rights. 
"Our relationship with that new government will depend on its adherence to democracy and respect for human rights, the twin pillars of our approach to El Salvador," said depart-
See SALVADOR, page 3 

page 2 
IN BRIEF 
The Indiana Appelate Court, in an opinion issued Monday, ruled that tenants evicted from their apartment can still be held liable for the remaining rent due under their lease. The unanimous ruling upheld a Monroe Superior Court judgment against three students at Indiana University in Bloomington. The appeals court noted that the general rule is that a tenant is relieved of responsibility for rent after eviction. However, there is an exception to that rule when the lease includes a savings clause expressly providing that termination doesn't end the liability for rent. "It is entirely consistent with existing Indiana case law to uphold a lease provision which states that the lessee's liability for rent for the balance of the lease term will continue, notwithstanding an order of eviction," Judge Hoffman wrote for the court. 


OF INTEREST 
ChristmasinAprildormcommissionersandcommunity service commissioners must meet at 4; 30 pm on March 21 at the Center for Social Concerns. For more information contact Mary Sue at x4414 or the CSC. -The Observer 
Senior Class Service Project Any seniors interested in helping to serve dinner at the Shelter for the Homeless on Monday March 27 or Friday March 31 from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Contact the Senior Class office by Thursday March 
23. -The Observer 
College Mad House, a new television game show, will be on campus to audition contestants on April 14 at Stepan Center. To be a contestant you must fill out an application form and submit it along with a picture to the Student Activities Office. Application forms are available at the Information Desk, 1st Floor LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Aprill. -The Observer 
Harvey Bender, professor of biological sciences, presents a speech tonight at 8 pm on Altered Destinies: A Genetic Approach. The lecture will be held in Room 283 Galvin Life Science Center and refreshments will be pro­vided. All are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
The 1989 Collegiate Jazz Festival needs volunteers. Open positions include sales, spotlights, stage crew, and security. The Jazz Festival will be held at Stepan Center on the weekend of April7-8. For more information, contact Chris Denver at 283-2478 or Matt McGlynn at 283-2282. -The Observer 
St. Edward's Hall Forum will have Head Football Coach Lou Holtz speaking on "Here's How I See The Fu­ture of Football at Notre Dame" tonight at 8 pm in the St. Edward's Hall first floor lounge. -The Observer 
Juniors: "Preparing Yourself to Plan an Effective Job Search" is the title of a presentation to be given by Paul Reynolds, associate director of Career and Placement Ser­vices. Itwill be held tonight at 7 pm in Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. Juniors of all majors are encouraged to at­tend. -The Observer 
MBA Case Competition will be held today from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. Teams from 6 schools will present their so­lutions to a business case. Observers are welcome. Schools competing include last year's winner, the University of Western Ontario. -The Observer 
Seniors: Moving to that new city when you graduate in May? Career and Placement Services would like to help you find that new roommatehouse-mate that you need. Stop down to the office and add your name to the "In­formation Exchange" listing now, and then check back often for names. -The Observer 
US Sprint Telecommunications Services is looking for Independent Marketing Representatives. Net­work 2000, authorized marketer of US Sprint, invites you to a business opportunity meeting on Tuesday March 21, between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. in the Career & Placement Conference Room, Basement of La Fortune. -The Observer 


Design Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kathy Huston Viewpoint Layout .............. Laura Manzi :rypesetteTS . . . Tim Kiefer .... Chris Malin Accent Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Colleen Cronin News Editor.. .. Michelle Dall Accent Copy Editor ........ John Naccarato 
Copy EditOT ....................... John O'Brien Accent Designer ........ ........ Alison Cocks SpOTts Copy Editor.......... Marty Strasen 
n. '*"-(USPS 599 2~) Ia publlabld Monday tllrouab Friday acept cluriallllllllllll Y-lioa perloda. n.a..r-11 publlabld by 111e atuctenu or 111e UlliwniiY or Nout 0...11111 Sllnt Mary'l co~~~p. Sublcrlptiolllasay be purcllu­ed far 140 J11r yw (S25 J11r llllllltar) by wrltlq n. a...-, P .0. Boa Q, Noln O...,ladlua 46556. 
n.a..r-11 a _._ or n. AM•d••• ,_, All reproducllon rilhll ue
--. 

Tuesday, March 21, 1989
The Observer 
INSIDE COL Urv1N 



'Fitness' swimmer comes up all wet 
The life of a mediocre fitness swimmer is not a happy one. 
Sara

Former stars of Pee Wee Blue at the Y.M.C.A. and one-time-eight-and-under-city-breast­Marleystroke-champions like myself are thrown into a pool with people who through some accident News Editor 

of birth have developed limbs instead of fins ----------------­
and spend their lives sweating chlorine and 
humiliating the rest of us. -------......---------------­
Oh, I can't remember either learning to swim ......_ or not being able to swim. I was a pool brat ••e •••.s•s ........ ee a•• ........................... aoe 
<!tee O'EJ e seeeee e e:ee Q e ee e • ee 8 eeee.
during my formative years and probably had 
9 0 0 9
the potential to become a "real" swimmer. _., e e e g.Qo ~~ E7' a> e a o o A few things interfered. Like sleep. I could eooooo e>~oooo~ooooGto 
never get into getting up in the dark (at least ...... 
000 0 0 0
eighty percent of the time in South Bend) to ~·o plunge into a cold pool and get kicked in the . ~ ~ ....... face for a few hours. ~-.__ . ......__.._ ~ 
Thus, my Olympic dreams were dashed, and 0 0 0 9 e 0 0 0 o oe 0 0 0 eoo I was washed up at age twelve. ~ 
=i 

Conforming to the age old adage, I could not, ,~ ~-~ ­so I learned to teach. I spent years pursuing .,......... ...... ......._ ~ 
my Lifesaving and my Water Safety Instructor ::::;=======-===~==;:;:========
certifications from the Red Cross so I could zo 1o devote my time to the next generation of dol-\ ~ \ 
phins, flying fish, and future drop-outs like myself. 
\

During this period I consoled myself and ex­plained away my lagging times by saying I had visited Rolfs and tackled the Olympic size pool to work on "form" and "style" rather than be although I am far from an Olympic-sized swim-concerned about base results. mer. 
Then came the aerobics revolution. I had long I actually got in shape and grew accustomed ago foresworn jogging, running, and most to the daily work-out. My last summer of such forms of -ing. I decided to try out this new ex­regular pool appearances was probably in 1978. ercise, so I took up aerobics. After about five So the summer went. Exhibiting a sure sign minutes of Jane Fonda screaming at me to the of a dedicated exercise program, the people beat of music I would otherwise deem unaccep­working at the pool even got to know me. My tible for, say, cleaning the oven or having teeth summer progressed with only minor intrusions pulled sans anesthetic, I decided that perhaps -from the participants of American Youth on my first love, swi1 ming, was the way to go. Parade and the 40,000 mobile home-owners who 
So I started to sw .m again. I was going to be invade campus during the summer. a bona fide fitness swimmer. I began to rack I worked my way up to swimming 2,000 up miles on a 50 mile card at theY. I think I'm meters per day, just over a mile. I tried to still hovering around 30 miles, after five years. break my previous record of a mile in under 
· But I have actually been swimming more half an hour (no snickering allowed here). than that. Freshman year I gave up my 50-mile Then one day it happened. I was nearing the club membership to swim at the Rock with my· end of my work-out when I was joined in the fellow domers. This wasn't too bad because I lane by a skinny young girl wearing two suits didn't have to actually share the pool with mem­for drag, a sure sign of disaster. 
bers of the swim team or other amphibians. She lapped me four or five times on my first 
I even pursued my fitness swimming while lap. I tried to console myself by thinking that studying abroad in Innsbruck, Austria, last I had already been swimming for quite some year. European pools proved to persecute the time while she was fresh. In reality, 2,000 amateur even more than here, however, as I meters probably wouldn't serve as a warm-up swam without benefit of either lane-lines or for this girl on a dog day in hell. lifeguards to keep little brats from jumping on I haven't been swimming much lately, mostly 
·my head. due to time constraints, I tell myself. My exer­
It wasn't until I returned from Innsbruck with cise is pretty much relegated to climbing stairs an additional ten pounds or so of beer, bread and running across campus when I'm ten and chocolate that I began to swim seriously minutes late for class. again. Maybe next summer I'll really start swim­
Every afternoon after work I faithfully ming again. 



GWENDOLYN BROOKS 
PRESENTS A READING 
AT SAINT MARY"S COLLEGE MARCH 22 7:30pm O"LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM FREE ADMISSION EVERYONE WELCOME 
iiDJ(gJR1fillilfh DEIT WEEK ffiHRCH 28-30 
CRRRDLL RUDITDRIUffi C"AD 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD
S1, g & 11 pm smc. 
tJ .J_ .i. II 
S6 IBT liARY'S COLLEGE 

Tuesday, March 21, 1989 
The Observer page 3 
-Ih-e-0-bse.-~~­-------A.-=Y=-'-'"&.-­is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES For more information, contact Molly Killen at 239-5303 or 239-6900  a Elections for the 1989-90 pos­predominantly undergraduate itions of the Graduate Student institution to a highly recog­Union Board were discussed nized research university. during a forum at Cushing Hall The most outstanding con­Auditorium last night. cerns of both candidates cited Two of the three platforms include achieving respect and running for the positions of responsibility as adults and in­president and vice-president creasing graduate students' were present at the forum. visibility and reputation. These included Luis Canales According to Wright and and John Monteiro, and Mi­Stukas, "More democracy and chael Wright and Jim Stukas. communication is lead by par­Joel Barstad, chairman of the ticipation." Wright and Stukas elections and credentials com­said this would be achieved by mittee, acted as presiding offi­the GSU representatives cer of the forum. presenting their views to the According to Victor Krebs, administration. current president of the Wright and Sturkis also noted Graduate Student Union that it is necessary to keep the Board, the GSU plays an inte­graduate community updated gral role on campus because, through open meetings and an "The integration of graduates organized agenda. in this community increases Candidates Canales and visibility of graduate student Monteiro said, "It is necessary issues, therefore establishing to appeal to the graduate stu­solid ground work for GSU as dent in a way he feels he a representative organiza­benefits from." tion." Canales and Monteiro Don't drink and drive A public service message from The Observer  
PR,~O~B=.:~~E:-:.M::;.. den• ha'" {light> ~ a St. Mar'Y s stu uming the'Y -tudent and . Chicago· A.ss k whatDame s . ort tn ~ ter brea ' A. 'Notre 0'1\are A.trP ·nute of pas t {rom to catch at n}o'Y ever'Y rot ld the'Y use to ge both want to e rtation shoU mode of transpoO'llare 1 1 A. irport n nd to R iona ~ South ue Michiana eg a) car ter {light {rom b)commu. o c)s\JnoitedLul\ON; ';~~~~~~~~~~::~ \ make~ es clear 'Y -kingcharg\\sand par t answer. \ tion, C .rtJ tratftc, to n incorrec b a good sou ld h, b car a to e \3 nd cou traveling 'Y "\ "b" ma'Y seem\ in South e A.nd wht e kind of de a'Y worse 'Yet, a ' b that an'Y 0'1\are. Or, we\\, \et s remem ~r . g flights at d could mean· .. an mtsstt~ S uth \)en 1 me \\ tion in o . htmare· . , "Not on 'Y nee a \d be a ntg \ uons· :a t sa'Y it cou d "c" congratu de of transpor~· JUS lf 'You answ~emos~ reliable f':est {are anhd t e . ed umo t e offers the 0 int {or t e is \Jntt 0'1\are, it also ture/arriva\ po lts in no tion to ient depar . \e 'This resu ' most conv~ "ND Mai~ Ctrc{ the students tudents • t . mizattOn o s d maxthassles an . .,ment.enJO,  
Loyola University of Chicago The Summer Sessions Day or evening Reptrations are done classes uain1 any Touch·Tone telephone in the coun· try! Lons repstrationWide array o( linet exlat no more! courses in Business, Arts and Sciences, Education, Nursing Telephone 3121670· 3011 or complete theAll summer courses coupon below to applicable to Loyola receive a copy o( the University degrees 1989 Bulletin ofThe Summer Sessions. The Bulletin includes com·Classes at the Lake plete course listings as Shore, Water well u information onFIRST SESSIONTower, and Medical admission, registrationCenter Campuses. 6wecka Becinnins M.ty Z2 procedures, and dates.  
learn this lesson the hard way? Ifyou need to get to O'Hare, count on UNITED LIMO. We'll get you there. Call 674-6993 for schedule and reservations. Or call your travel agent. UnitedLimo We'll Get You There  SECOND SESSION 6 weeks BesinnincJulyS I--------------------------------------------------,The Summn Smioru 1 LOYOlA UNIVERSI'IY OF CHICAGOI 820 North Michigan Avenue •Chicago, llllnois 60611 I l Name l'hono---------­1 l ~--------------------­ 



'Year of the Family' to raise awareness 
By LAURA DOWNS 
Staff Reporter 
A steering committee for "The Year of the Family," chaired by Executive Assistant to the President Roland Smith, has been appointed by Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy. 
The committee has met on two occasions so far. 
"Our first assignment was to go out and get some initial ideas and feedback from various segments of the Uni­versity community," said Smith, "to identify all possible audiences and issues within the University." 
Smith said that "The Year of the Family" theme was chosen by Malloy from a recommen­dation by the task force he com­missioned last year to explore the family and other life com­mitments on campus. 
The activities planned by the committee will be designed to raise campus consciousness on 
IMPORTANT: Due to limited seating, we request that you make reservations at least 24 hours in advance. 
the variety of issues that face the family today, Smith said. 
According to Smith, the com­mittee will strive to get every level of the campus community involved in "The Year of the 
Family,"  including  staff,  
undergraduates  and  
graduates.  Included in the  

aims of the committee will be to set up action-lab workshops and various lecture series. 
"We want to encourage the various departments who are planning activities to think about family issues as related to their subject matter and in­corporate these issues into dis­cussions where appropriate," said Smith. 
Smith said that the commit­tee will meet rather often while it is in the preliminary planning stages. "Later," he said, "we intend to break into subcom­mittees that will work on spe­cific projects. This will allow for additional people in our community to get involved." 
AP Photo Muscovites who support maverick Communist Boris Yeltsin's election to the new Soviet parliment march Sunday in downtown Moscow. The banner reads "Yeltsin, yes! Bureaucratic system, no!" 
Elections, platforms for Graduate Student Union positions discussed 
By KERRY SCANLON Both platforms recognized News Staff the transition the University is making from being 
: Ocy Sw.t Zip ___ I Wo 110 an oq~ Olli)Of1unoly edueiiCII·omploytl UNO 
L••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••j ~----------------------_. 
stressed the importance of unity among the graduate stu­dents, as well the importance of a week-long teaching assis­tant training program funded by the University in order to help graduates have "a better experience" when they teach. 
As part of his platform, Mon­teiro noted the importance of the administration asking the graduate students' their opinions of policies before they are enacted. 
According to Wright, the "poor turnout" at the forum was an indication that "something is wrong with graduate participation on this campus." 
Monteiro agreed, saying, "If graduate students are not publicly recognized, the com­munity won't appreciate them." 
Elections for the positions of president and vice-president of the GSU will be held at 8: 15 tonight in the Foster Room in LaFortune Student Center. 


Salvador 
continued from page 1 
ment spokesman Charles Red­man. 
Redman praised the Sal­vadoran people for braving "violence and terror" by leftist guerrillas who, he said, tried harder to disrupt Sunday's bal­loting than any other in seven years. 
U.S. 
Ambassador William Walker denied that an Arena victory would be a defeat for 

U.S. 
policy. 


SUMMER CAMP 

POSITIONS Counselors: 21 +, coed, sleepaway camp, Mass. Berkshires. WSl, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, drama, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, judo, dance, photography, computers, nature, wilderness, model rocketry, guitar, yearbook, woodworking, RN, typist, 
Write: Camp Emerson, 
5 Brassie Rd, 

Eastchester, NY 1 0707 
or call 914/779-9406 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, March 21, 1989 
SECURITY BEAT 
Thu., March 16 
12:48 a.m. A Notre Dame Student reported vandalism done to the north doors at South Dining Hall. Estimated damages are unknown. 
11:20 a.m. An off campus student reported the theft of his wallet from the Lobby in the Notre Dame Post office sometime around 10:50 am. Losses estimated at $45. 
7:23 p.m. A Notre Dame student was cited by Notre Dame Security Police for traveling 52 m.p.h. in a posted 25 m.p.h. zone on Juniper road. 
10 p.m. An off campus student reported the theft of a gas cap from his vehicle while parked in B-2 Lot sometime between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Losses estimated at $10. 
Fri., March 17 
8:10 a.m. An employee of Notre Dame reported vandalism done to his vehicle while parked in White Field sometime between 4 p.m., 3/16 and 8:15a.m. 3/17. Estimated cost of damages is unknown. 

7 p.m. Notre Dame Security reported that three students had attempted to bring a keg on campus, violating University rules and regulations. Keg was confiscated. 
Sat., March 18 
4:50 a.m. A Notre Dame employee reported vandalism done to the men's restroom in the basement of Breen-Phillips Hall sometime between 1:20 a.m. and 4:50 a.m.. Damages estimated at $50. 
1:30 p.m. An employee of Notre Dame reported damage done to a wooden gate arm at the rear of South Dining Hall sometime between 2 and 3 a.m. Damages estimated at $50. 
3 p.m. Notre Dame Security reported that fliers were distributed to vehicles parked in Red West parking lot , violating the University policy on so­licitation. 



Marines 
continued from page 1 
spokesman said. The in­fantrymen were from the 1st Battalion, 5th Marines of the 1st Marine Division based at Camp Pendleton, Calif., he said. 
Marine officials said they had no immediate word on what caused the crash. Little of the helicopter was left but charred pieces of wreckage. 
Yonhap, the South Korean news agency, cited South Korean military officials as 

Add some excitement to your Senior Formal with Tuxedos from Louie's 
BLACK CLASSIC 
$32.50* 
DESIGNER BLACK TUXEDOS 
$49.95* 
Choose from: 
Christian Dior Pierre Cardin Yves Saint Laurent Robert Wagner 
Formal Peg Pants Designer Shirts & Vests 

saying the helicopter exploded in the air and burst into flames before slamming into the ground. The report said the helicopter appeared to have a· problem in its engines. 
ASeoul newspaper, the Kook-min Ilbo, quoted a farmer who saw the crash as saying two helicopters were hovering about 250 feet above the ground when one suddenly turned up­side down and plunged into a creek. About 10 soldiers leaped out of the helicopter as it hit the ground, the report said. 
Investigators were sent to mine what happened, but no quick results were expected, the Marine spokesman said. 
It was the second fatal crash involving a Marine helicopter in South Korea in four days. All four Marines aboard a CH-46 helicopter were killed Friday when their craft crashed in a rice paddy on the east coast. 
Marine investigators are still trying to determine the cause of Friday's crash. 
Both helicopters were taking part in annual "Team Spirit" exercises involving about 200,000 South Korean and U.S. 

the crash site to try to deter-. troops. 
University Park Mall 
272-2486 
*Does not include damage waiver fee or extra charge items. 
. 's has I ' 
Lou•e your stY e. 

nwLast Chance! •Sigl}.-Ups or Christm April,,, t~> ~, .·.-" ,. ..~ ,· ~ 0 .. :.!:: • • .: ,·· •• j •'.,_. '"~; Here are Your· Alternatives: ,., .· ·..'·._?'--. \, 0 •''e.: ' ~ ,.. .. • ,c.J ~--'~CONTACT YOUR HALL PRESIDENT, COMMUNITY SERVICE COMMISSIONER OR CHRISTMAS IN APRIL COMMISSIONER IN YOUR HALL. # .·: ~;) ·:!· SIGNUP ON THE SHEETS IN YOUR HALL ..~ :,:.*TURN THE BOTTOM PART OF THIS AD TO STUDENT GOVERNMENT, SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. NAME____________________________________________ _ ----------------------------------------------------------­ADDRESS-----------------------------------------­pH0 NE--------------­S S # -------------------------­SPECIAL SKILLS------------------------------------­-------------------------------------------------­ 

--------------~-----­
Tuesday, March 21, 1989 
The Observer page 5 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
overseas students' votes came in late. DeFrancis said the votes from some students ar­rived at Notre Dame just last week and said the delay creates a huge problem when tallying votes for candidates. 
"The main problem is that it's an all-or-nothing thing," said DeFrancis. "If we only have London Program stu­dents voting, and a candidate wins by 10 or so votes, then the losing candidates protest that the students in other programs could have changed the out­come." 
"But it is so difficult to reach some overseas students that their votes come in ex­tremely late, which could 

delay election results," said that only new owners are for­DeFrancis. bidden to rent to multiple 
Based upon this year's diffi­families, so only when houses culty in obtaining responses change owners will they be from students overseas, OBUD closed to future student ren­used the constitutional clause tals. that it must be feasible for stu­Student Body Vice President dents to vote in order to count Mike Paese said that a break­their votes in the final decision. down in communications in the OBUD also decided that it was upper levels of the administra­not feasible for overseas stu­tion nearly resulted in a student dents to vote. government "blackout" of the 
Another crucial concern the information that the neighbor­senate discussed was the hood was going to be re-zoned. zoning change in the South Bend northeast neighborhood "The hands-off approach in which affects off-campus stu­regard to the issue and its con­dents. sequences to the 
The re-zoning changes the showed a surprising lack of vi­area from a multi-family to a sion on the part of those who single family neighborhood, knew (of the decision) which means that owners can­beforehand," said Paese. not rent to multiple families or, "It may not be a in this case, students. right away, but in five or ten 
A grandfather clause states years, when houses 

'Clemens Coreth
no 


Austrian General Consul speaks at Notre Dame 
By KAREN BALCERZAK 
News Staff 

Austrian Consul General Clemens Coreth spoke Monday on Austria's participation in 
the European Community when free trade within the com­munity opens in 1992. 
Austria is currently in the midst of an economic boom, said Coreth. "This vigorous economic growth is based above all on commodity ex­ports which have passively gained speed, but it is to be pointed out that domestic demand is buoyant as well," stated Coreth. Last year, 63.8% of Austria's total exports went to the European Community. 
Austria's motivation to par­ticipate in the EC is not only a defensive move to avoid dis­crimination or ensure eco­nomic growth, said Coreth. It "also is of an offensive nature in order to ensure the competi­tiveness of Austria's economic entities and to ensure that Austria's trade market share. of the total world does not decrease, but also to partici­pate in decisions made by the EC concerning such important questions regulating European-wide industry norms ... etc.," said Coreth. 
The effect of Austria's par­ticipation in the EC on its per­manent neutrality has been questioned, said Coreth. 
"It should be borne in mind that Austria's permanent neutrality and federal constitu­tional law, promulgated on Oc­
tober 26, 1955, concentrated on 
the military obligations, 
arising from permanent 
neutrality... None of these 
obligations is affected by a 
membership in the EC," 
Coreth said. 
In closing, Coreth stated, "If Austria is not able to partici­pate under a special formula in the internal market concept, Austria's government has kept itself open to the option of be­coming a full-fledged member of the EC under the condition that its permanent neutrality is not at stake." 
Coreth was born in Vienna but attended elementary school in Washington, D.C., while his father served as the first Austrian ambassador to the U.S. He obtained his doc­torate of law in Switzerland. 
Some of the diplomatic posi­tions Coreth has held are Dep­uty Chief of Mission at Tokyo, First Secretary of the Austrian Embassy in Senegal and Dep­uty Head of the United Nations department at the Foreign Ministry for Political Affairs. He is currently the Counsul General to the Midwest, based in Chicago, serving 12 states in­cluding Indiana. 
The lecture was part of the Innsbruck Program film and discussion series. 


Election 
continued from page 1 
"It's a very tight race," said Julie Robertson, treasurer on the Ferguson ticket that will oppose the Coffey ticket in the Class of 1992 run-off. "We're anticipating a tough campaign but we're looking positively towards it and we're excited for it," she said. 
"I'm really pleased with the voter turnout," said Ferguson. "I've heard in past years it's been around 50 percent. We had 1,200 out of about 1,800 vote this year, which shows the class in general seems to care about the election," he said. 
"It was a very amicable campaign," said Victm DeFrancis, of the Ombudsman Executive Committee. "I didn't hear about problems with slandering as I did last 
.---·---~ 
------·---------------------­



Viewpoint 
page 6

Tuesday, March 21, 1989 
P.O. Box Q 
Honor code fosters trust and success 
Dear Editor: 
I was sorry to read in the March 2 Observer that at least some Notre Dame students completely misun­derstand the function and goals of an honor code, although the misun­derstanding is not entirely their fault. An honor code implies that people belong to one another, are part of one another, care about one another and are willing to do something when some­one is in trouble. Lying, cheating, and stealing is self-destructive behavior as well as being destructive of community life; to allow a brother or sister to per­sist in patterns of dishonest behavior without doing something about it is to abdicate our responsibility to serve one another. 
This is not, to be sure, the way that the world around us understands dis­honesty. The world is more concerned about the damage done to itself by those who lie, steal, or cheat. A member of a community bound by an honor code, however, should be more concerned about the damage dQne to himself or herself by a person who lies, steals, and cheats and be willing to speak the truth to that person: you, my brother or sister, are embarked on a course that will ruin yourself and hurt your friends and associates. I am sorry to hear that some feel that Notre Dame is not and cannot be such a place. 
I teach at an inner-city high school in the middle of downtown Newark, New Jersey,whose student body is over­whelmingly minority and lower-middle class. We have no locks on our lockers, classrooms are left open and things are always left lying about. We have an honor code that works. Does that mean nothing is ever stolen and no one lies or cheats'? Far from it; we are all too human for that! It does mean that our attention is focused on helping one an­other and trusting one another--not on security. It also demands a great deal of trust between students, faculty and administrators; trust that both adults and young people will act in the best interests of those who need help. We do, by the way we proctor tests without feeling hypocritical about supervising students. I am sure that while I am trying to be a mature adult, a holy monk and a good priest, the fact that I have an abbot and a headmaster over me is not hypocritical either, but keeps me more honest than I might like to admit even to myself. 
The same is true for the students. A graduating senior of ours who spent a year at a very prestigious and mostly white and very upper-class prep school was shocked at the amount of ab­solutely unchalfenged dishonesty that occurred there. He observed that the school surely reflected the society they were part of while our school models the way society could be; not perfect but trying. Surely Notre Dame can do the same. It is for trying to be the best that we can be, not for the succeeding, that we are held accountable. Even thinking practically rather than idealistically, I wonder how many careers are stalled because a person's character rather than his or her com­petence is doubted. 
"Anything that hurts my brother or sister hurts me" is the basis of our Honor Code. I encourage and challenge you to keep at the task of developing a community where people in trouble (through substance abuse and drink­ing, lying, cheating, and stealing...) will find the active and concerned help they need to live a healthy and mature adult life. If setting goals and getting help for someone who is hurting himself is being a "squealer" then we are all in trouble. By the way, since "Honor Code" is such a freighted and misun­derstood term, we call ours "The Cov­enant." 
Father Mark M. Payne St. Benedict's Preparatory School Newark, New Jersey ND Class of '73 March 12, 1989 

Landry leaves his mark on Cowboys 
Dear Editor: 

On Tuesday, Feb. 28, 1989, I read an article in The Observer about Tom Landry being fired from the Cowboys. Having lived in Dallas for a few years, that was all I heard about: how superb Landry really was. He had coached some of the best men in the NFL, such as Tony Dorsett, Roger Staubach, and Danny White, among others. When I finished reading the article, I was very disappointed and angry, and most of it was directed towards Jerry Jones' deci­sion. I really did not understand how and why he could even consider firing such a suave mim and coach. After all, Landry did lead the Cowboys to five Super Bowls (even though they won only two). His composure during a game made many other coaches en­vious of this altruistic man. It was his splendiferous talent that directed the ·cowboys to be called "America's 
team." 
Tom Landry had been Dallas' coach for 29 years. Most of us could not even stay at a regular job in the business world for that long. Also, he was 64 years old and probably planning on resigning soon anyway. I would like to have seen Landry stay for a little while longer because I had always enjoyed watching Cowboys games, knowing that he, my favorite coach, was on the sidelines. But when I heard the news, I realized that all good things must come to an end. 
Even though this decision did not please me, I will still be a loyal fan to my Cowboys team. Regardless of who will be coaching the Cowboys from now on, I will always remember them as Landry's team. And he will always be number one in my heart when it comes to choosing the best coach in the NFL. 
Jennifer Sewall Regina Hall March 12, 1989 


FoodShare faces hunger crisis 
Dear Editor: 
While many spent their break skiing on the slopes in Colorado, or sunbathing in Florida, as the leaders of the Food­Share program, we spent our week in New York City coming face to face with the crisis of hunger and homelessness in this country. On March 9, the Food­Share program was presented with an award by the Campus Outreach Oppor­tunity League for being an outstanding project. The award was presented on the eve of COOL's fifth national confer­ence at Fordham University. We would like to congratulate all the members of FoodShare and the dining hall workers, who certainly deserve this award, for their help in serving eighteen thousand meals in the past year. 
Twelve thousand college students from various parts of the United States joined together to unify the commit­ment of college students to social ser­vices. During the four-day conference, students realized the desperate need for action and change. They shared ideas, hopes, dreams, and frustrations that come from trying to make a difference in a country with two million homeless people, half a million of which are children. 
We all know the facts and the num­bers. But very few actually see the faces. This weekend, we saw their faces. We would like you to start seeing them too. Because like each one of us, they need to be noticed. Noticed as people with emotions and needs other than housing and clothing. 
At the conference, college students came to the realization that in the United States there should be no cause to see people in such a hopeless condi­tion. All in attendance agreed that it is the responsibility of college students nationwide to stop the suffering in our own backyard. 
We hope to see the students of Notre Dame join in this fight. Notre Dame was admired by many at the confer­ence for their dedication to community service as highlighted on national tele­vision during the Fiesta Bowl. The Cen­ter for Social concerns is by far one of the most successful college community service organizations across the country. We would like to express our gratitude for their endless assistance with FoodShare and their countless other programs. With the obvious need for college students to. take action against homelessness and many other issues, every student at Notre Dame 
should endeavour  to  get involved in  
community service.  
Lisa Mackett  
Vibha Monteiro  
FoodS hare  
March 13, 1989  

The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the briefer the piece, the greater its chances of reach­ing print. 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 
NOTATAU!
THI3130SS'5

!I./HAT 1!3 7H/3 11./H0£13
GAM&l HOTOFF

IT, J.ION&Y? POINT Of' TH/3
TH/3 P/?&'35E5! 

GAM/31'370
\ 11./ANTTOPLAY 
'3a}Rf3 t=A'3TI
A ROUND~ 

-~ 
'An impossible dream is only impossible if all you do about it is dream.' 
-Lou Holtz 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Editor-in-Chief ....................... ............ Chris Donnelly Business Manager ......................... ..... Rich Iannelli Managing Editor ................... .............. Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .............................. Molly Killen Exec. News Editor ...................... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Design Manager ......... Shaonon Roach Viewpoint Editor .................................... Dave Bruner Production Manager ............................ Alison Cocks 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor ....................................... Theresa Kelly Systems Manager .............................. Mark Derwenl 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor ........................................... John Blasi OTS Director ................................... Angela Bellanca 
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Photo Editor ............................................. Enc Baileypossible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Founded November 3,1966 opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
~------------------------·-----------------------------~------------------­






Accent
Tuesday, March 21, 1989 pa_ge 7 
MUSIC IN REVIEW 
FYC' s latest: vvorth the vvait 

JOHN LANE accent writer 

T 
he Fine Young Cannibals have released a new al­bum entitled The Raw and the Cooked. FYC fans, who have waited three years for the band's second album, will be delighted to know that The Raw and the Cooked is as good as FYC's fantastic debut album. 
Two aspects of the album stand out. The first is the in­creased use of piano and keyboards from the first al­bum. There is some keyboards in at least half the songs, including a terrific piano solo in "Good Thing." This seems to indicate a maturity in the band as they expand their musical horizons and experiment with new sounds. 
The second is the way that the music sets up the vocals. Former English Beat mem­bers David Steele and Andy Cox do an in-credible job of setting up vocalist Roland Gift with their stunning music. In this area, the band makes a sig-nificant im­provement over their debut album. 
There are ten songs on The Raw and the Cooked. Catchy tunes "Good Thing," "Tell Me What," "Don't Look Back," and "It's OK" are the heart of the album. These songs keep the band's pop image. 
Slow songs "I'm Not the funky with "She Drives Me Man I Used To Be" and "As Crazy" and "Don't Let It Get Hard as It Is" are in the mold You Down." of past songs "Couldn't Care The two best songs, More" and "Funny How Love however; are "Ever Fallen In Is." These songs allow Gift to Love," which shows the show off his unusual, yet ad­band's capability for powerful dictive voice. FYC also gets and intense music, and "I'm Not Satisfied," which reveals the depth of the band's lyrics. 
Overall, The Raw and the Cooked is an excellent album. It is a must for all FYC fans and strongly recommended to anyone else. 
Squires' blend of classic rock 
KEVIN WALSH accent writer 
T 
he Squires' new album, Form True House, con­tinues in the tradition of its debut EP, The Hairball Oracle. The group's sound is Midwestern American rock, two guitars, a bass, and a drum. The guitars are alter­nately spidery and slamming and, combined with lead singer John Ferroni's confi­dent, assertive Mick Jagger­like vocals, make for a pretty classic sound. 
"Clowns" poses the musical question: What if the Beatles had taken acid before their first album? A LOT of acid. Despite all this, it isn't psyc­hedelic at all, just strange. The music is simple and 
Calvin and Hobbes 
catchy, like "Love Me Do," but the lyrics include refer­ences to "worldwide pow­wow" and "black and blue frowns." 
"Forever Never" is an in­strumental take on Led Zeppelin-meets-the-Beach Boys, crunching guitars over "Ia-la" back-up vocals. There are three instrumentals on the album, all outstanding due to the lead guitarist, who is only referred to as "Dr. Mike." 
The weirdest lyrical turns come on the album's last song "Fantastic Disaster," which comes off as a grungy Stones-like workout. The song begins like this: "Comedy!Tragedy!What does it mean?;When Shakespeare arrives at the crime of the itbefun ?;Whenoneisforalland all is for one ?!Ubermensch! Underwear ... " Well, you get the picture. Now do you see why the group does so many instrumentals? 
Other standouts on the al­bum include the post­apocalyptic love song, "Snow­men Glow," which has lovers romping in the snow of a nu­clear winter, "Schizophrenic Tuesdays," and the Beatles­like "Cinnamon Kisses." 
The Squires are caught in an interesting quandary. Without the anger of English bands, American bands have more time to work on their craft and wordplay. The Squires should consider looking into a little more anger and a little less wordplay. 
Bill Watterson 

I (X)t.l Wf>J\11 10 C.!..~ mE 

l'tv\ SICK C>l' t.IJER~o~t. BIJS. I DoN\ W~NT TO GO 
TElliNG ME Wl-1fl.T 10 [X) To S::.I-\OOL. l CON'T Wi\NT 
t>.\l 11-IE TIME! l \.\~IE t<\i TO St. 1-\t.Rt. AT f>..Ll. 
LI~E' I I-lliTE E'JER'iTI-\ING.' I W\5\-\ I W~'S DEAO.' 
I 
,,,~ 
~ 



'Generations' a
•
new-genre tn soaps 
JOE BUCOLO accent writer 
S 
oap operas, those sudsy, scintillating daytime serials, are a way of life for some, a fun pas­time for others. Viewers can't seem to get enough of the scheming and manipu­lating that occurs daily on all three networks. Audiences are constantly asking for more--and that's precisely what they're going to receive. 

In the Whitmore house­hold, Rebecca earned a law degree after divorcing her husband Peter. Her daughter Laura married Trevor McCallum (Andrew Masset) and has three children. J.D. is a rock star struggling to make a com­eback, and Stephanie, known as Sam, is a college student. 
Created by Sally Sus­sman, who was nominated f9r an Emmy Award for her work on "The Young 

JOE BUCOLO 
To Be Continued... 
On Monday, March 27, NBC will launch daytime's newest and most original soap opera, "Generations." Airing daily at 12:30, "Generations" is the latest daytime drama since the start of "Santa Barbara" in 1984. 
Centered on the relation­ships of two Chicago families (one black, one white), "Generations" will certainly live up to its mot­to, "Black and White in Color." The link between the Marshall and Whitmore families extends back three generations when Vivian Potter (Lynn Hamilton) and her daughter Ruth (Joan Pringle) worked as housekeepers for Rebecca Whitmore (Pat Crowley) and her daughters Laura (Gail Ramsey) and Step­hanie (Kelly Rutherford). Rebecca also has a son named J.D., but that part has not yet been cast. 
Ruth vowed to "rise up" from her mother's humble beginnings. With the help of Rebecca, Ruth and her husband Henry Marshall (TaureanBlacque) financed their own busi­ness, Marshall's Ice Cream, which presently consists of five stores. Henry and Ruth took Vivian into their household to live with their three children: Chantal (Sharon Brown), Jacquelyn Rhymes (not yet cast), and Adam Marshall (Kristoff St. Jo]ln). 

and the Restless," "Generations" will reflect the most important family issues of today and tomor­row. Each of the three generations portrayed in the series is a product of a specific time and place and, thus, copes with dif­ferent situations in very different ways. None of the characters on "Genera­tions" are doctors (practically a cardinal sin for daytime soaps). In­stead, the show will feature the goings on at law firms and universities. 
The cast of "Genera­tions" is a talented one. Anthony Addabbo ("Loving"), Pat Crowley ("Dynasty"), George Deloy ("Days of Our Lives"), Andrew Masset ("Days of Our Lives"), Kelly Rutherford ("Loving"), and Nancy Sorel ("One Life to Live") are all soap opera veter­ans. The other cast mem­bers are from similar TV backgrounds. 
Three generations of characters, the first ever 
· main soap opera storyline involving blacks, and in­tense emotional relation­ships will place "Genera­tions" in a class all its own. NBC executives hope these factors combined with suspense, intrigue, and those extravagant soap opera names will keep viewers tuned in for generations to come. 
-

-

-
---------~---­
r 
Tuesday, March-21, 1989
page 8 The Observer 
New league discussed by NFL 
Associated Press 

PALM DESERT, Calif.-­Commissioner Pete Rozelle said Monday it's possible the NFL's new international minor league, with teams based in Europe and North America, could start play as 
early as next year.  ·  
Rozelle  did  not  include  
plans  for  the  new  interna­ 

tional league in his opening talk to the owners at the NFL meetings, and said few con­crete plans had been made beyond a new marketing ef­fort, and live television in En­gland this year. In the talk, he told the owners to remain upbeat about league matters. 
But he emerged from the meeting to a series of qu~es­tions about the plans. 
"It's possible that we could begin as soon as next spring," he said. "Probable, I don't know'?" 
The NFL has discussed in­ternational play since 1974. 
But not until the past four years, when a series of exhibi­tion games in London whetted the appetite of British fans for American football, has going overseas become likely. It be­came even more likely after NBC became interested in televising a spring minor league, and Rozelle broached that proposal at a meeting three weeks ago of the NFL's 
long-range  planning,  and  
finance committees  at  New  
Orleans.  

Monday's early session was devoted to Rozelle's state of the league address, and some rules recommendations from the Competition Committee. The owners did make one vote --rejecting a proposal made by the Pittsburgh Steelers to do away with the controversial "in the grasp" rule, in which a quarterback is ruled down if he is in the "grasp and con­trol" of a pass rusher. 

The owners also were waiting for more information before voting on the sale of the Dallas Cowboys to Arkansas oilman Jerry Jones, who already has installed the University of Miami's Jimmy Johnson as his coach. 
But Rozelle stressed that 
the sale was as good as ap­
proved. 
"It's just a matter of time," he said. "Everything looks positive. We just need a few papers." 
As for the topic of the new minor league, it came amidst almost a carnival atmosphere created by the lobbying of eight cities for expansion franchises even though Rozelle has emphasized that expansion won't be consid­ered until there is a new col­lective bargaining agree­ment. 

Volleyball 
continued from page 12 
kills while Pat Burke contrib­uted 19. Sean Stack snuffed the Aztec hitters with 18 digs in the losing effort. 
In the second match of the trip, Notre Dame traveled to San Bernadino to take on Cal State, the second-ranked club team in the country. Notre Dame won, 8-15, 15-13, 15-13 and 15-10 in what could very well be the biggest victory in Irish history. Sophomore Tom Mar­tin recorded 15 kills along with seven blocks in the victory. 
Against Chapman College, Notre Dame was victorious over its first-ever varsity team 15-7, 15-9,9-15 and 15-9. The win could prove to be a stepping stone for the volleyball team to make the transition to the var­sity level one day. 
Sullivan, who leads Notre Dame in total kills, compiled 16 more against Chapman. 
"We played very well in Cal­ifornia and I saw many positive things," Anderson said. "I was looking for improvement and it came." 
Notre Dame takes on rival Michigan at 7:30 Wednesday in the Joyce ACC Pit. The Wol­verines were ranked seventh among club teams in the preseason poll while the Irish started out ninth. Anderson will be looking for his 100th career victory at Notre Dame in one of the biggest matches of the year. 
Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal has been invited to the game to evaluate the club for varsity status. The outcome of the match could very well be a turning point for men's vol­leyball at Notre Dame. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts clasaifleds advertising from 10 a.m, until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for l)ext~y classifieds is 
3 p.m. All clasaifleda must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The 
charge Is 10 cents per flve characters per day. 



Classifieds 
- NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 2B7-40B2 NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK BOB Howard St. just elf of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph.  GRAD STUDENTS, 3 BD. FURN. HOUSE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS, SECUR­ITY CONSCIOUS. CALL 2B9-B539. ................................ Two bedroom apartment with family room and garret. Approx. $36Gtno. utilities inc. 3 miles from NO Call 2BB-5440. WANTED  TICKETS HELPII! MUST GET 1 OR 2 GRADUATION TIX. CALL MIKE COLLECT (214)34B-6B06 I need graduation tix real badly Need not be together, just any tix. Please call 232­6220. Leave message  WANTED: STUDENT EARNING WAY THROUGH COLLEGE. FULL TIME DURING SUMMER-APPROX. 30 HRS. WEEK DURING SCHOOL YEAR. MOSTLY OFFICE WORK . KNOWLEDGEABLE OR INTEREST IN BUILDING MATERIALS HELPFUL CALL FOR APPOINTMENT. BIG C LUMBER 125 DIXIEWAY NORTH 277-4550 ................................................................  HEY MOLLY YOU GUYS JUST CANT GET ENOUGH AND I AM GLAD YOU HAVE FINAL COME TO GRIPS WITH YOUR SEXUALITY. LOVE MARY MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUN­CIL APPLICATION DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY MARCH 29 Pick up application in Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFort  HAVE A BALL AT THE CHARITY BALL Fri., March 31 THE CHARITY BALL Fri. March 31 B:30-1:30 South Dining Hall with  
233·2342 Photographers needed Amateurt)>rofesslonal for Australia. National Institute of Exploration June 20-Jufy 13. Cost $3,300 Call Bruce 219-733-2170  CRUISESHIP JOBS $300 TO $900 WEEKLY CALL LINDA 9-5 WEEKDAYS 1·612­456-0B84 EXT. C-40BO RIDE NEEDED to Nashville for Easter Will share expenses. Call Christina 239­ I PERSONALS hf ag  "JUNIORS: PLANNING AN EFFEC­TIVE JOB SEARCH", PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL WELCOME.  MMUL TICULTURALCOUNCILMU­LTICUL TURALCO UNCILMUL TICUL­TURALCOUNCILMUL TICUL TU  IN CINQ and THE GROOVE TIX: Lafortune Info. Desk or Haggar Desk Semi Formal  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER, 233-7009. TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY  CALL  7424 NEED BABYSITTER ON SATURDAYS FOR 15 MO. OLD. TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED. PLEASE CALL 271·B584. I NEED A RIDE FOR EASTER TO PHIL­ SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAI(PS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAIN!! NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373  ································································ "JUNIORS, PLANNING AN EFFECTIVE JOB SEARCH", PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN 127 f\!IEUWLAND SCI­ENCE HALL ALL WELCOME.  TO ALL OF MY FRIENDS: Thank you for making my 19th birthday so wonderlul! LEVA GARY, KATHLEEN, LOUIS, MATT, SUSAN:  NO JASON if I had any guts it wouldn't have had to be Secret in the first place, right?  
277-7406 I LOST/FOUND I LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­MILITARY FORMAL!! call BRET x13B9 Found: Set of keys near Rockne Mem. Call 2485 to identify.  LY, NJ. OR NYC!! WILL HELP WITH ALL EXPENSES AND DRIVING-CALL X4048!! NEED RIDE TO PITT FOR EASTER LEAVE WHENEVER CALL JOE 233­B138 Need ride to D.C. area for Easter. Will share expenses. Call Angie 284-4294 Ride offerd to Clev 31.14-26.616-699 7140  ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-B77­3574 Scap!!! (Use it) COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­ ································································ "JUNIORS: PLANNING AN EFFEC­TIVE JOB SEARCH", PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL WELCOME. GET READY, THE FISHER HALL REGATTA IS COMING SOON. IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO COMPETE IN THIS YEAR'S HOMEMADE BOAT RACE  Thank you for the surpnse party' I'm glad we are best · friends I LOVE, LEVA GOING TO ANN ARBOR FOR EASTER? Want me 2 pay 4 your gas? TAKE ME WITH Ul! CALL KAREN x3719  LOCAL SWIMMING POOL COMPANY HAS OPENINGS FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE WORK, GREAT EARNING POTENTIAL. CALL SERGIO'S SUNGOD POOLS, 2B7-9283 FOR APPT. To the person whose car I backed into on March 17 call Bill x 2346 RIDE NEEDED FOR 2 TO PIT· TSBURGH OR NEAR. CAN LEAVE THURS AFTER 12 PLEASE CALL 2147  
LOST LOST LOST BUILDING STRUC­TURES TEXTBOOK GREY AND WHITE COVER HARDBOUND PLEASE CALL TERRY X2706 I REALLY NEED THIS BOOK!!! LOST: set of 3 keys on brass class of 19B7 key chain please call Betsy 2B4­4294 if found  WANTED PEOPLE INTERESTED IN PROMOT­ING CULTURAL AWARENESS AT NOTRE DAME Apply in Student Activities Office TODAY  standing brotheo'slster sports camps on largest lake In New England near "ON GOLDEN POND" site seek staff. ALL TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: Roblndel (girls) 215-884-3326, Wlnaukee (boys) 203-227-4387 or see us on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 AM-2PM at LaFortune.  CONTACT YOUR HALL PRES ACTOR: needed for short subject fil Must be reliable and open to acting out per­sonal situations. Call Bill x2990, Paul x1B47 for meeting. ACTRESS: needed for short subject film. Must be self-aware, uninhibited about personal subject matter. Acting experi­ NO TOASTMASTERS!!!!! NO TOASTMASTERS!!!!! NO TOASTMASTERS!\!!! PLEASE contact Bob (# 331B) at any time regarding this wednesday's meeting. The meeting depends on it ND TOASTMASTERS!!!!! ND TOASTMASTERSII!I! ND TOASTMASTERS!!!!!  KATHYRYN Anyone going to INDIANAPOLIS for Easter Break, I need a ride, will pay gas, expenses. Call Colleen at x3784. ROCKET OLIVE JUICE  
LOST IN ALUMNI HALL AT IRISH WAKE: small black purse with embroidered flowers. Keys inside # 224, no 10. PLEASE call 422B at NO. Lost: an ID case somewhere between LaFortune and the· St. Louis St. block party on St. Pat's day. Keep the money but please return the license and key. Call X4421 or drop at PE. The roon no. is on the key Lost--A small black tote umbrella. It was lost in the employee coat pile at the foot­ Multicu~ural Executive Council GOING 90 East for Easter through Rochester, NY? I NEED a ride. Will aid wtfriv. & exp. Call ROZ x3696 HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO MPLS. FOR EASTER. WILL PAY$. PLEASE CALL MARY 284-5443. NEED ONE-WAY RIDE TO D.C. & CAN PROVIDE A RETURN RIDE. WILL PAY $. PLEASE CALL PAM 2B4·5051.  Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Caii219-262-15B1. Help!!! I need a ride to Pittsburgh (PA Turnpike 6) on 3·29 or 3-30. VERY lm­portantll Will help with gas and toll. Mike 4141 DESMOND TUTU IS IN STEP NO AAN ·············································  ence please. Call Bill x2990, Paul x1B47 to meet ····················· GOT SPRING FEVER??? DIVE INTO MUD VOLLEYBALL AND SLIDE INTO ULTIMATE FRISBEE SIGN UPS WED. MARCH 22 6-B P.M. DOOLEY RM. LAFORTUNE AN TOSTAL'B9 DC,PHILL Y ,BALTIMORE HELP I Ride needed for EastertAnyone going this way-can I please come? Share usuai.Lisa 2663 SKYDIVING SEASON BEGINS APR 1  ........................•... To "the cute little dark-haired girl" that I woke up at 3:30 AM: We should have done it in the pool-tMaybe some other time. TC any senior not usimg all four graduation tickets please call 1413 will pay $$ RIDER NEEDED to Purdue leaving Thurs. afternoon. Call X2B91. Now in its 3rd exciting week,  LN PEBBLES: I CAN'T GET OVER HOW INCREDIBLY THOUGHTFUL AND GENEROUS YOU'VE BEEN TO ME THESE PAST FEW WEEKSI LETS DO DINNER! IF YOU CAN, MEET ME AT 6pm IN FRONT OF THE NO BANDROOM ON WED., 22 MAR. (OTHERWISE PLEASE NOTIFY ME) KEACH  
ball dinner.  If found please call Greg- I NEED A RIDE TO WASHINGTON D.C.  IF INTERESTED CALL DEAN 287-3024  Z BALLS WEEK rolls on ...  
- 1402 LOST: Medium blue rectangular suit­case during Spring Break. If any In­formation, call 309-837-7567 or 309­837-1479 and ask lor Mary Beth. Reward & will pick up. LOST: BLUE POLO JACKET AT CCE  FOR SALE NEED A CAR? 'B2 Subaru, 107K,Decent shape, $925 or reasonable offer. Inquire at 2B3 3554 GOVERNMENT HOMES! From $1.00 (U  OR VIRGINIA (CHARLOTTESVILLE) FOR EASTER BREAK. WILL SHARE $$$. CALL ROSI AT 3567. HOPING TO ADOPT We're a happily married, financially secure couple with a beautiful home  ARE YOU DRIVING SOUTH FOR EASTER BREAK? I NEED A RIDE TO ATLANTA OR ANYWHERE CLOSE (NASHVILLE OR BIRMINGHAM)··WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS AND BEER FOR THE TRIP... I CAN LEAVE THURSDAY MORNING... CALL ANN AT 492BIFYOU CAN HELP!  When we last left our hero, he was in a men's room . Call 3410 and make sure he washed his hands. WED. NITE Full Moon Full Pitchers at MATEO'S  START BREAK EARLY AT BRIDGET'S WITH CORVALLIS CALLING Wednesday Mar. 22 from 9:30 to mid· night Special Guest Appearance by: The Surfin · Generals  
...  BUILDING SAT. 3'1B. PLEASE CAUL, I NEED MY KEYS! THANKS. 294-4349. LOST: GOLD SIGNET (DMK) RING AT OR NEAR SENIOR BAR THURSDAY, MAR. 16. PLEASE CALL DAWN 284­4349. FOR RENT  Repair). Foreclosures, Repos, Tax Delinquent Properties. Now Selling This Area! Call (Refundable 1-315-733­6084 Ext G23B2H For Current Listings! ROUNDTRIP TICKET TO ALLENTOWN, PA. LEAVE THURS.(31.13) RETURN MON NIGHT CALL # 4966 80 TOYOTA CELUCA GT 5-SP MUST SELL, GOOD CONDITION $1 500 OR BEST OFFER CALL 277-6509 AFTER 6PM  and lots of love to share with much­wanted baby. If you are pregnant and considering placing your baby lor adoption, please call us. We can help you, and you can hetp us make our lives complete. Expenses paid. Con­fidential, legal. Call Deborah and David collect day or night at 31:MI35­4088, or call our counselor collect at 3121.280-8744. I need a ride to EVANSVILLE IN. for Easter break. Will pay. Beth x4B02  Top 17 Quotes from Rollins: 17. Remem­ber brown in back yellow in front 16. Dave, go hug a tree 15 You put the ug in ugly 14. You make me so hornee ... 13. Here's to Sister Mary ... 12. Debbie, is standing up difficult? 11.Late-Nite bowl cam 10. Wahh, my buttcheeks hurt 9. It must be the rotten water B. How's the weather Mary? 7. My problem is so small I never get to use it! 6. Word of the Day: CHILI'S-YAHH 5. Get off, Get Way Off!! 4. Killer curve Lisa! 3. You put  on Ironwood Live Guitar Duo THE STONE PUPPIES HEH KITTY! YOU ARE A RED HOT BABE! HERE ARE TH TOP ANNOYING QUOTES FROM DAYTONA! MOLLY: "She's got no right to be doing that; MARY: I smell something again; MIKE: I wouldn't throw her out of bed; RITA: Lets ge something to eat Steve;. KIT­ SPRING JEWELRY FLING This week at SMc.• Wide selection of handmade jewelry. Monday-Wednesday 9am-5pm. Haggar Game Room NAT, HOPE YOU'RE FEELING BETTER. LOVE, FREDDY  
HOUSE  NEAR  CAMPUS  AVAILABLE  the crust in underwear 2. Sorry you're  TY: I'm drunk (AGAIN)!  YOUR  JEWELRY  DREAMS  COME  
FOR RENT UNTIL AUGUST. 232-3616.  1979  CHEVY  IMPALA,  AUTOMATIC,  GET YOUR EASTER BASKETS  cut-off, but we've only been here for an  TRUE. SMC HAGGAR GAME ROOM,  
AIRCO NDITION, 55000 MILES, $1BOO  AT  hour & 15 min 1. PAN PAN 'B9' P.S. I'd  your pal Mary  MON-WED., 9AM-5PM.  
..  Furnished ROOMS-$120tno; 2 BDRM HOME-S28Gtno, 3 blocks from campus  OR BEST PRICE, CONTACT 239-6705, 272-9880.  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER MON-FRI, 12:00-5:30  like to thank WPMH---for the aspirin!!! ............................................................  ATTENTION SPORTS FANS AND PHIL  MAXIMIZE  YOUR  JEWELRY  PLEA­ 
272-6306  LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER  Don't ask people what they did for break  KRAKER CONNOISSEURS! When the  SURE. SMC HAGGAR GAME ROOM,  
Anyone wanting to rent a Turtle Creek  Nakamichi 2Head Tapedeck-$200 In­finity 2Way,100W Speakers-$1BO Tos­hiba Compact Disk Player-$B5 Teac  Make this Easter most unique, when the  or what they're going to do for Easter Break. It's really getting old. And if you can't think of anything better to say, just  new Phil Kraker doll comes out Barbie's going to dump Ken like a hot potato!  MON-WED, 9AM-5PM. ...... A MUST SEE" Siskel & Ebert.  
Apartment during the summer months contact Lisa at # 4886 .  5Band 9pm.  Equalizer-$30 Call  #  1667,  7­ Easter Bunny hops down your street! per­sonalized deliveries, 255-3355.  shut up. You'll be a better and much more interesting person 1or it.  your pals Molly and Mary  PARROT HEADS FOREVER  
•  

Tuesday, March 21, 1989 
The Observer page 9 
Kentucky assistant resigns
ND picks '89 captains 
Special to The Observer 
Quarterback Tony Rice, fullback Anthony Johnson and linebacker Ned Bolcar have been voted tri-captains of the Notre Dame football team for the 1989 season. 
Bolcar, who also served as a tri-captain on this past year's national champion­ship team, is returning for a fifth year in 1989. The Phil­
.....__,... .--~-

Jipsburg, N.J., native was the team's fourth leading tackler in a back-up role last season. 
Rice, from Woodruff, S.C., led the Irish in rushing with 775 yards and nine touch­downs while completing 52 percent of his passes for 10 touchdowns and nearly 1,400 yards. 
Johnson, a South Bend na­tive, finished with 302 yards. 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. --Dwane Casey, the principal figure in the NCAA's investigation of the Kentucky basketball program, resigned Monday as assistant coach of the Wildcats. 
Casey's resignation came one day after Eddie Sutton resigned as head coach of the beleaguered program. 
Meanwhile, Kentucky spokesman Bernie Vonder­heide said the school was form­ing a search committee to find a successor to Sutton. 
"Athletic director-elect C.M. Newton will be on the commit­tee, but other committee mem­

bers have not been firmed up yet," he said. 
Newton, the coach at Vander­bilt, officially becomes Ken­tucky's athletic director on Aprill. 
Vonderheide said a timetable has not been set for naming a new coach. 
On Wednesday, the Irish will looked by the Irish. 
take their impressive record to "They're trying to put to­Baseball Valparaiso for a doubleheader gether a good program, but I with the Crusaders, then travel feel that we can beat them,"
continued from page 12 
to Butler for another said Murphy. "We've got to rejuvenate a bad first inning." doubleheader on Thursday, play well. We can't just show 
Another encouraging note and finally round out the road up at the park and think we're over the weekend was that trip with a game with Indiana going to win. freshman first baseman Joe on Friday. "We've got to go out there Binkiewicz went 4-for-6 over Looking at Valparaiso, and beat them offensively. We the weekend, including a 3-for-3 Murphy describes the can't just rely on pitching performance and three RBI Crusaders as a rebounding every single time out, espe­against St. Bonaventure. team that must not be over-cially this early in the year." 
The Irish have spent over 50 in a rematch of last year's 14-8 
hours on buses the past two Cadet victory. 
weeks during two eastern trips, "For two weeks in a row 

Lacrosse 
continued from page 12 
but now can look forward to the we've been on a bus and that 
goals inside on feeds," he said. friendly confines of Krause really drains you, especially 
"We still need to make better Stadium and Loftus All-Sports with a young team," said 
decisions, but when you play Center. Notre Dame will host Olmstead, who leads the Irish 
transition lacrosse you know Hartford Saturday at 1:30 p.m. with six goals and two assists 
you're going to make some mis­before the Air Force Academy on the season. "Everyone is ex­
takes." invades South Bend on April 29 cited to finally be playing at 
home, especially the young 
guys who will be playing for the 
first time at home for Notre 
Dame." 
Corrigan said the Irish have learned some important les­sons in their first four games.





Juniors! 
After next week's two home games, the team will embark on a seven-game Midwest 
We need your help in planning the senior class trip. Lacrosse Association schedule 
that includes big games with Michigan State and Ohio State.

If you plan on attending the trip over October Break, 
"I think we've played some close games so far, and al­
please fill out this questionaire and return it by though we were only able to pull out one of the three, I think 
campus mail to: Junior Class 2nd Floor Lafortune it will help us a lot as the year progresses," Corrigan said.
For Fall Break 1989 there are home football games on both 
"It's toughened us and made us realize how much the little

ends of break. Our options include: 
things matter." 

A. An 8 dayl7night trip which would cause us to miss the Pitt 


game. Schwartz 
B. A 6 day;S night trip which would not interfere with the Pitt continued from page 12 
game. Schwartz says she does not mind her role as a reserve,Please circle your preference: A orB sharing playing time with freshman Margaret Nowlin. 
If you have any questions please contact: "I would almost rather come Matt Breslin x1739 John MacQuarrie x1694 Michele Feick x41 09 Colleen Scanlan x4096 in," she said. "When you come in, you know what's going on 
To: THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE 
DAME CONCERT BAND THANK YOU for an 
OUTSTANDING MUSICAL PERFORMANCE From: The University of Notre Dame Alumni, Family & Friends of Lorain County March 4, 1989 
and where the team needs help. Besides, Margaret and I have each gotten about the same amount of playing time." 
The versitile Schwartz is not bothered by sacrificing game time or changing her game as long as the 20-9 Irish continue to win. Even though she started in 19 of Notre Dame's last 20 games as a freshman and was solely an outside player, she says she likes this year's team much better. 
''The team really plays well as a unit," said Schwartz. "I think we've been successful be­cause we don't have one star. Everyone scores and we com­plement each other well." 
Notre Dame will travel this week to Amarillo, Texas, for the National Invitational Tournament. The Irish open play on Thursday against Toledo. 
Schwartz predicts Notre Dame will do well. 
"I think we have a very good chance of making the final," she said of the Irish, who defeated Toledo 77-70 earlier this year. "We've played some of the other teams and I think they are heatable." 

r------------------------­
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, March 21, 1989 


Seton Hall, IU set to collide 
Sixteen is 'sweet' for Carlesimo and Knight in tourney 

Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz.--Eighth­ranked Indiana and 11th­ranked Seton Hall are where they hoped to be at this stage of the season--in the "Sweet 16" of the NCAA tournament. They also are on a collision course. 
The Hoosiers and Pirates, winners of their first two games in the West Regional, meet Thursday in the West semifinals at Denver. 
Indiana, 27-7, advanced by beating Texas-El Paso 92-69 Sunday, while Seton Hall, 28-6, defeated Evansville 87-73. 
"We've lasted longer than 48 other teams," Hoosiers coach Bob Knight said. "What are our chances now? We got past 48. We got 16 left. We're as far as we can be right now." 
Seton Hall coach P.J. Car­lesimo said his team, which was the Big East Conference runner-up this season, already has gone farther than ex­pected. 
"We think we're as good as anybody in the tournament," Carlesimo said. "That's not to be arrogant. You have to prove it, but we felt we could make it to Denver." 
The Pirates used their usual mix of balanced scoring and tough defense in beating Evansville, which nearly erased a 60-42 deficit and got within 74-73 only to be held scoreless for the final 5:06. 
"We're a confident team," said Carlesimo, the two-time Big East Coach of the Year. "Sometimes that's bad. But the guys don't think they're going to lose. The constant is defense. There aren't too many teams that let an 18-point lead get away and be hanging by your fingernails and come back, but this team's been doing it all year." 
Seton Hall made its first NCAA tournament appearance last year as the West's No. 8 seed at UCLA's Pauley Pavilion. The Pirates beat Texas-El Paso 80-64 in the first round before losing 84-55 to Arizona in the second. 
This time, Carlesimo said his club could go all the way. 
"I like our chances," he said. "We felt we were good enough to come here and win two games. We felt we were a legitimate No. 3 seed. You get past the first weekend and you're down to 16 teams. It's a crapshoot now. 
"I think we've been a Top 10 team all year. We've played a tough schedule and shown we can play with anybody. The kids know that. We're good and they know it. If we win two more games, we'll talk more about it." 

Tanjyobi Omedeto Happy Birthday Takako 

LOVE, Masahiro 
4­

.• 
AP Photo 

Indiana's Jay Edwards fires a shot against Michigan in Big Ten action earlier this year. The Hoosiers meet Seton Hall Thursday in the "Sweet 16" of the NCAA Tournament. 
However, the Pirates have to get past Big Ten Conference champion Indiana, which also combined balanced scoring and tough defense to win its second-round game. 
"It'll be interesting to see how far they go," Texas-El Paso coach Don Haskins said. "You got to play defense better than we did against a team that shoots that well. I don't know if there's a better perimeter­shooting team in the country than Indiana. There's not a guy on that team who can't shoot the ball. 
''Seton Hall will certainly be more physical than we were and Indiana is not going to be able to get the ball off the boards as easily as they did against us. I think that'll be a good game." 
Indiana has a 412-136 record in 18 seasons under Knight. 
$Q____-Cf~ v~ rvR~ ­
·· --G~-------otN --vN 


-------~=-~r~ -~r ~ ~J------­
·I 

-g[ .........................................._..............................Jj·~·-··~-............. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Bookstore Basketball late registration and signups are today from 6 to 8 p.m., in the lobby of Haggar Hall at Saint Mary's. Times and location will be announced. There is a $5 registration fee. Any questions should be directed to Nancy at x3487 or Julie at x2667. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will sponsor the Insilco tournament today and Wednesday, March 21-22, in the Joyce ACC. A $5 entry fee includes t-shirt. Registration ends Friday, March 17 in the NVA office. -The Observer 
SMC Intramural Volleyball captains' meeting will be today at 4 p.m., in the Angela Lounge. Divisions will be women's and co-ree. Games will be played Sunday through Thursday nights from 8 to 11 p.m. -The Observer 
Bengal Bout tournament tapes can be ordered Tuesday or Wednesday, March 21-22, from 7 to 9 p.m. in Lafortune under the Bengal Bouts poster. For more information, call Mike at x3386 or Doug at x1627. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
-Ih-. e-Obse---.-~~r--&.~Y=-~ --·­
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
News Editor 
A resume and a two-page personal statement is due to Matt Gallagher by 3 p.m. on Tuesday, March 21. Call239-5303 or 283-1957 for information. 

Tuesday, March 21, 1989 
The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
I CAll/ R£~£NtJ A L4/vU. &a£,k PAtA!i'CaLP
Dlo >txJ RMO 
,~o&vr '11{/5 ~RY «»t> £.Y,t¥?c.tsT.IIE. tr8£... oJ.t, rarv'rk/Vov .. CJ/1 RbP,<.At:r6~? /i'WOL£5 fl U>T t:F ~y SAriW;J4'15.£$. /• .
I 
) :P:b 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
rnt: 9:J.\OOL B\lS WILL s SPAC.E.MAt-.1 SfiFf. CAP'lllRW AT -mE LA9" ~~{), 'SPI!f B£ ll£1¢ AN~ MIN\l"IT. ! i VICioOS ZOGW/>205, IS ABOOT MAKE.S HIS BREAK .' TAKitiG 
GO! sc.oor ! l 1t> ~ ~c:;R')Rru> mm£ APVN'I.TN;t Qi: 1\\£ F\ANEJ's ~ CAMP.' OUR \\ERO ~~ GW-.'liT'i, OOR "£Ro 111\\().\£5-A ln.O IS AWM LIKE. A 'S\\01. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents "Juniors--How to Plan an Effective Job Search." Room 121 Nieuland Science Hall. All interested students are invited. 7p.m. Engineering Career Night: speakers from Notre Dame and local community, Montgomery Room, La Fortune 
5:00pm High School Track Classic, South Bend area high schools, Joyce ACC Fieldhouse. Admission: $2 Adults over 12, $1.00 children. 
7:00pm ND Communication and Theatre film, "Pierrot LeFou," An­nenberg Auditorium. 
9:00pm ND Communication and Theatre film, "The Bicycle Thief," Annenberg Auditorium. 

LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Noon 
David Maybury-Lewis, Department of Anthropology at Har­vard, "National and Hidden Agendas: Some Reflections on the Indian Question in Latin America," Room 131 Decio Fac­ulty Hall. 
3:30p.m. Department of Chemical Engineering presents Sheldon Isakoff, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
DINNER MENUS  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Grilled Chicken  Turkey Cutlet  
BBQ Spare Ribs  Shrimp Stir Fry  
Chili Crispitas  Cheese Enchilada  
Cheese Sticks  Deli Bar  


COMICS 
Bloom County 
ff6 51/ff? 7lf~ (J#fVa(.% Wit/.. Flit/.. 61/CK IN av tmelF 
5Cma?IIY. 5111K(f.Pt/IN~f5. 
1rJFIJ HfJT !?065... 81a?'fTHfN6 Wit/.. :;Q,IJ/1.5H 7V&€TH~F(... 

Buzz Mcflatop 

ACROSS 24 Glacial ridge 53 Harem room 26 Brief halts 54 Environment:
1 Choose Comb. form28 Scotch cocktail 4 Boss Tweed's 56 Fall back 

nemesis 31 "The-," G. Meredith novel 60 Small coin 
a Go marketing 33 In the past 62 Family
12 Pope's triple entertainment

34 Overhastily 64 Seine sights 
crown 

37 Vegetarian's no-no 
15 Heraldic band 

65 A son of Seth 16 Gaelic name for 
66 Kin of apples 
39 Scottish lord 67 Hoopoe's home 
Ireland 41 Canadian Indian 11 Family 68 LA footballers

entertainment 42 Passes away 69 Lawyer's retainer 
19 Distantly 44 Consume 20Aperture ' 45 Set out 21 Lbs. and ozs , 46 Wise legislators DOWN 
e.g. 49 Rue 
1 Bismarck 23 Sort 51 Cubic meter 
2 Atlantic City attraction 3 Anklebones ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 "Lon9 time 
5 Onassis nickname 6 Highway sign 7 Camper's prop a Red or Black 
27 Leathernecks' 39 P M Margaret 52 Lock9 Family outfit: Abbr. 40 "He was­55 Mrs. Charles entertainment 28 Inclined way man Chaplin
trrtm-:r+;::+.,.;.llllh;;t;::-t;;-1-:;:-1.._.111111;..-t:;..+.::-1 1 0 Papal vestment 29 Molding with a 
43 German admiral 57 Chanteuse Edith 
46 Appear
30 Family 58 Dry~~~l·· colloquially entertainment 47 Ship s deck
.;;; 13 Allude (to) 59 Start of N.C.'s 
48Go32 Army off . 

.....-+...+.it+:~ 14 Dispatch boat motto 
35 Not fatty 49 He sculpted 
-:-rl:+.r.+..-1 18 Like goo 61 Superlative
36 Rents "The Thinker" ......trl..-t...=-1 22 Use a ketch suffix
38 Theater-seat 50 Roman ...;,..J,......L-L....J 25 Feasts section magistrate 63 Pop's partner 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 








Sports 
Tuesday, March 21, 1989 

Scoring woes plague lacrosse team in weekend split 
Irish baseball rides pitching to quickest start in 26 years 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
The men's baseball team took on Duke, St. Bonaventure, and North Carolina A&T over the weekend in Durham, N.C., and returned with a record of 10-4, its best start in 26 years. 
Although the Irish did not turn in a sparkling perfor­mance, splitting two games with Duke, beating the Bonnies and being rained out against North Carolina A&T, the team can boast that it has never had a better record since 1963 when that squad began the year 11-3 and went on to finish 19-11, re­ceiving an invitation to the NCAA tournament. 
"Every time we 'ac­complish' something like that (the team's record), it means a whole lot to me because I've got so much love and commit­ment to this program," said Irish head coach Pat Murphy. 
Over the weekend, Murphy could only say he was "fairly pleased" with Notre Dame's 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team emerged with a split at this past weekend's Penn State Tournament, losing to the host team Saturday before beating Lehigh Universtiy Sunday to move its season record to 1-3. 
The 9-1 loss to Penn State could have been a much closer game as the Irish were again plagued by an inability to score on unsettled and man-up situa­tions. Notre Dame failed to con­vert on six man-up situations despite oushooting Penn State 38-29. The Lions' goalie tallied 

NO Volleyball Club shakes off big loss 
The Men's Volleyball Club ended its toughest stretch of the season Friday night against Indiana-Purdue Fort Wayne, which is currently 11th in the country among var­sity programs, in less-than-fashionable style. 
The scores were 3-15, 6-15, 4-15 in favor of Indiana­Purdue Fort Wayne. And according to Head Coach Bill Anderson, the Irish were thoroughly dominated. 
Greg Scheckenbach 
Club Corner 


"They had an intimidation factor against us," stated Anderson. "Right now, we are still timid in playing against varsity programs." 
Once again, Andrew Sullivan led Notre Dame with eight kills, much lower then his current average. Otherwise the Irish had no outstanding statistics to speak of. 
On a brighter note, Notre Dame played very well on a recent trip to California, winning two out of three games. In their first match of the road trip, the Irish took on powerful San Diego State and came up short, 13-15, 15-11, 5-15, 16-14 and 5-15, in one of their better matches of the year. 
This was a good loss for Notre Dame, considering SDSU is an established varsity program in the heart of Califor­nia, volleyball's No. 1 state. Senior Mike Shimota played out of this world with eight service aces and numerous assists to ·Irish hitters. Sullivan led Notre Dame with 22 
see VOLLEYBALL, page 8 
performance, in which it beat Duke 5-4 and St. Bonaventure 5-2 on Saturday and lost to Duke 8-2 on Sunday. The game with North Carolina A&T was called because of rain in the fourth inning with the Irish leading 2-0, one inning before it would have been official. 
"I feel we could have won every game we played," said the second-year coach. "I think there was definitely a letdown on this trip as compared to the first two (to Texas and Florida), and I don't know if I should be overly-concerned or if that's just part of any season that you can't have a great weekend every weekend. 
''The problem was our ap­proach offensively," continued Murphy. "It wasn't the fact thatwe're not good offensively, but in battling the pitcher I don't think the hitters were thinking of what their role was and executing. I think they were just swinging at the ball." 
The Irish pitching was a dif­ferent story. Notre Dame got 
16 saves, leaving 21 Irish shots that never reached the goal or bounced off the cage. 
Such frustration was evident in Notre Dame's opening losses last week to Stoney Brook and Georgetown, in which the Irish dominated every category but the scoreboard in losing the close contests. 
"Against Penn State it was the same old problem that we've had. We didn't play poor­ly, but just couldn't put the ball in the net," said Irish head co­ach Kevin Corrigan. "You can't take 38 shots and score only one. We outshot them by nine but they outscored us by strong starting pitching perfor­mances in each of the three games. 
In the first game against Duke, senior Erik Madsen went seven and a third innings to earn the win, improving his record to 3-0, striking out four and walking one. Against St. Bonaventure, senior Mike Pas­silla got the win by going seven and two thirds innings, scatter­ing eight hits and giving up two runs. 
Even in the game against Duke on Sunday, in which the Irish were bombed by a potent Duke offense, starter Brian Piotrowicz lasted six innings, giving up five hits and one walk. Were it not for a poor first inning and lack of Irish run sup­port, Piotrowicz could have kept Notre Dame in the game. 
"It wasn't that Piotrowicz had a bad outing," said Murphy. "He got off to a bad start, we didn't hit for him, and we didn't give him a chance to 
see BASEBALL, page 9 
eight. It's obviously a continu­ing problem for us." 
Corrigan added that Penn State's nine goals on 29 shots showed further misfortune for the Irish. 
"I think Penn State did get some breaks early on that they shouldn't have, especially on unsettled situations," he said. "I think we did a good job of running with them, but it's hard to judge your game when you're out of it, because you start changing what you're doing." 
Despite junior Dave Carey's goal in the first quarter, the Irish were unable to find the 

Schwartz makes move inside 
6-3 junior forward gives NIT-bound Irish lift off bench 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
Annie Schwartz is not your typical 6-3 forward. 
Unlike most basketball players with her height, Schwartz does not see herself as an aggressive threat under­neath, and instead prefers shooting from the perimeter. 
"I see myself as more of a finesse player," says Schwartz, a junior Psychol­ogy/ALPA major, "and I would rather shoot from the outside." 
Schwartz has an excellent outside shot. Last year, al­though an injury allowed her to play in only 12 games, Schwartz was third on the team with a .588 field-goal percentage. 
This year, however, Schwartz has been asked to use her size to contribute at the post position, while also provid­ing outside shooting when it's needed. The transition has been difficult at times for the Ann Arbor, Mich., native. 
''As a freshman, I played out­side all the time," commented Schwartz. "But this year we net the rest of the game as Penn State moved out to a 5-1 halftime advantage. The loss gave Notre Dame their first 0-3 start in nine years of varsity play. But the Irish were able to bounce back the following day, breaking out of a 7-7 halftime struggle to beat Lehigh 10-8. 
"I think everyone has got to be pretty excited that we won. It was a pretty big lift for the team," said senior tri-captain John Olmstead. "Nobody likes to start 0-3, but I think we're improving every game and so it's not that big of a problem." 
The Irish again showed a balanced scoring attack as six 
-

The Observer I File Photo Mike Passilla, who pitched Notre Dame to a victory against St. Bonaventure this past weekend, and the rest of the Irish staff have been sharp early this season. Notre Dame, at 10-4, is off to its best start in 26 years. 
have lots of good shooters so the team needs me to play both inside and outside. It was hard to get used to all the shoving and rough play at first, but I'm gradually becoming a better rebounder and getting more comfortable underneath.'' 

Annie Schwartz 
Schwartz played inside during her time at Gabriel Richard High School and was All-State her last two years. She sees college players as being much stronger under­neath and has had to adjust her game to the rougher play. 
Notre Dame head coach Muf­different players combined for the 10 goals. Olmstead led the Irish scoring with two goals and two assists while Carey and freshman Chris Nelson each chipped in two goals. 
Junior Rob Lynn came off the bench to score two crucial late goals for the Irish. 
Corrigan said that the Irish had some defensive lapses against Lehigh, which he said can be expected considering the team's style of play. 
"We saw in the Lehigh game that you have to be careful not to let the other team score 
see LACROSSE, page 9 
fet McGraw sees Schwartz as primarily an outside threat. 
"She works the ball really well from the outside," said McGraw. "When she's in, she pulls the other team's center out and she can score." 
Schwartz is averaging 5.7 points and 2.9 rebounds off the bench for the Irish. She is second on the team in blocked shots with nine. 
Schwartz also has had to overcome a torn ligament in h~r knee that kept her out for more than half of last season. It has taken her awhile, she says, to regain her confidence and get used to playing with a knee brace. 
"It hindered me at first," Schwartz explained, "but I'm overcoming it." 
McGraw agrees that Schwartz is improving and praises Schwartz's effort as a reserve. 
"Annie was tentative in the beginning of the year," said Schwartz. "Now she has been playing well and has been a real spark off the bench." 
see SCHWARTZ, page 9 







