-~------------~ 

VOL. XXIII NO. 30 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey 
Taking her chances 
Cornell Wrisby is surrounded by sprinklers as she walks in front of Fieldhouse Mall. 

Bakker is convicted 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-PTL evangelist Jim Bakker was con­victed Thursday of using his television show to defraud fol­lowers of $3.7 million, money the jury foreman said corrupted a minister who started out to do good. 
"He was called by God. But eventually the money became too much for him," said fore­man Ricky Hill, who said during jury selection that he was a Christian. "We kept looking for something from the defense and we never saw it." 
Bakker faces a maximum sentence of 120 years in prison and $5 million in fines. The U.S. District Court jury convicted him of all 24 counts in the in­dictment, which charged he oversold lodging guarantees, called "lifetime partnerships," at his Heritage USA religious retreat. 
"The message is you can't lie to the people and use television and the mails to get them to send you money," said prosecu­tor Deborah Smith. "It doesn't matter who you are or how well known you are, you simply can't do it." 
Defense lawyer George C. Davis said the verdict would be apoealed. 

Prosecutors said Bakker di­verted $3.7 million in ministry funds for personal use while knowing PTL was in financial trouble. He used money from PTL for vacation homes in Cali­fornia and Florida, a lakefront parsonage, a houseboat, Rolls­Royce and Mercedes cars and 
see BAKKER I page 4 

East Germans scramble to ride freedom trains to West 
Associated Press 
HOF, West Germany-Thou­sands of East German refugees in Communist-owned trains that were locked up to bar compatriots from joining the exodus arrived in Hof early Thursday after a delay-plagued journey through Czechoslovakia and their homeland. 
Thousands of East Germans chanting "We want out!" had flocked to train stations and lined tracks in their homeland in hopes of joining their compa­triots aboard what could be the last freedom trains to the West. 
West German journalists said they heard unconfirmed reports of serious injuries when East German authorities stopped some East Germans from get­ting aboard the trains. 
Western diplomats in Prague, the Czechoslovakian capital, had speculated that attempts by East German authorities to prevent the throngs from boarding the trains had caused the delays. 
East Germans seeking to board the trains jammed West­ern embassies, swam rivers and lined railroad tracks in at least four East bloc nations Wednes­day. 
On Tuesday, East Germany's hard-line leaders had for the second time in less than a week agreed to allow safe passage to the West for thousands of would-be emigres who had massed at the West German Embassy in Prague. 
The first of eight trains that had left Prague late Wednesday arrived in this border town at 
5:50 a.m. It was believed to be carrying at least 1,000 people. 
East Berlin on Tuesday said it would allow one more exodus of disillusioned citizens, then suspended visa-free travel to 
see REFUGEE I page 4 


Priest calls for academic
Seniors hosts fathers at SMC 
By CHRISTINE GILL 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The seventh annual Senior Father/Daughter Weekend is scheduled to take place this weekend at Saint Mary's Col­lege. 
The event. titled "Father Knows Best," brings to­gether seniors and their fa­thers for various activities. Tonight's festivities kick off the weekend with a dinner dance at Union Station, a new addition to the program this year. 
Over 600 fathers and daughters will be participat­ing in the weekend event, which includes athletic con­tests, a talk by Notre Dame President Father Edward Malloy, and a mass closing the weekend on Sunday morning. 

Kari Milford, Senior Fa­chese are in our lives," Mil­ther/Daughter Weekend ford said. committee chairperson, is She said she is extremely 
looking forward to a pleased with the turnout and successful and special the "time sacrifice for fa­weekend. ''I'd like to stress thers and the daughters who how important events like have worked so hard." . 

freedom at Catholic schools 

By PAUL PEARSON 
News Staff 
Catholic higher education will benefit from greater academic freedom, Father Charles Curran said at a lecture Thursday. 
Curran said "We have nothing to fear from discussion and reason" in his lecture titled "Academic Freedom in Catholic Higher Education." 
He also explained that aca­
demic  freedom  for  Catholic  
higher  education  will  be  
"ultimately  good  for  the  
Church."  

Curran is currently a visiting Firestone Professor at the Uni­versity of Southern California's School of Religion. 
In 1986, he was stripped of his professorship at Catholic University by Vatican officials for his liberal teachings on hu­man sexuality. 
Earlier this year, Curran lost a lawsuit against Catholic Uni­versity when a District of Columbia Superior Court ruled that the terms for his tenure­ship had not been violated. 

In his lecture, sponsored by the Department of Theology, Curran defended academic freedom by saying that all Catholics must. bear witness to the fact that, "Faith and reason cannot contradict one another." 
He said, "A free Catholic academy will help the credibility of the Church's tea-ching office." 
"People will be able to respect it (the Church) because it is ~illing to listen to others," said Curran. 
Curran said he wondered why the Church would, ".. .invest their resources in Catholic uni­

versities if they  are  not good  
for the Church."  
In  regards  to  an  upcoming  

see CURRAN I page 4 
page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 

The Dalai Lama says everyone has what it takes to win a Nobel Peace Prize. "In my case, I make more effort or more at­tempt to develop these good qualities, so I got this prize. But ev­eryone has the capability," said the exiled spiritual and political leader of Tibet Thursday while in Newport Beach, Calif. for a con­ference. The Dalai Lama was awarded the prize in1989. 
Twenty relatives of "disappeared" people and political prisoners stormed the Costa Rican Embassy in San Salvador and seized 19 hostages Thursday to protest against Salvadoran Presi­dent Alfredo Cristiani's rightist government. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

Pregnant girls no longer need parental consent before having an abortion in Florida, thanks to the state Supreme Court. The court struck down the law on Thursday in Tallahassee, just five days before lawmakers were to consider restricting access to abortions. The split decision said Florida's constitutional guaran­tee of privacy outweighed the 1988 statute requiring consent of a parent, guardian or judge for a minor's abortion. 
Arme~ with a shotgun and a handgun a 15-year-old boy too~ a htgh school drama class hostage Thursday in Anaheim, Cahf. and shot one student in the face before being talked into surrendering, police said. 
I Eight armed men in civilian clothes fired in the Panama City
r 
I 
air Thursday outside the office where opposition leader Guillermo Endara was on a 16-day hunger strike, which he plans to continue as part of a campaign to oust Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. Nor­iega, who survived a coup attempt Tuesday said he had evidence the United States planned to install Endara as president after the coup. 
A lace miniskirt worn over no underwear convinced jurors in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. that a rape victim's attire was an adver­tisement for sex, and therefore reason to acquit the defendant Wednesday. In addition, the defense attorney told jurors she agreed to have sex with the man in exchange for $100 and co­caine, but later changed her mind. 
A farmer in northwest Iowa found what appears to be part of an engine of the DC-10 that crashed in Sioux City, Iowa, offi­cials said Thursday, and more parts may be discovered as farmers harvest their crops. Officials hope that missing parts of the engine will provide clues to why United Airlines Flight 232 crashed July 19, killing 112. 
Developer Donald Trump stunned the airline world Thursday in Dallas by offering a record $7 billion for the parent company of American Airlines, capping weeks of takeover specu­lation about the nation's biggest carrier. AMH said its board would consider the proposal, which would be the biggest airline buyout ever, but indicated probable rejection. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
A talk show produced by the White Aryan Resistance organi­zation has drawn a carefully measured response from the NAACP and South Bend community religious groups. "Race and Rea­son,"also produced by Thomas Metzger, a former Warsaw resi­dent who said guests have included members of the Ku Klux Klan, is to begin airing weekly later this month on a community access channel. 
WEATHER 

Cooler 

Partly cloudy today. Highs in the lower 60s. Chance of showers Saturday. Highs in the 50s. Sunny, but cool Sunday. Highs in the 50s. 
ALMANAC 
On October 6: e In 1683: The first Mennon­ites appeared in North America. e In 1783: Benjamin Hanks patented a self-winding clock. e In 1863: America's first Turkish bath opened in Brook­
lyn. e In 1884: The Naval War College was established at 
Newport, Hhode Island. e In 1927: "The Jazz Singer" 
helped  being  the  era  of  
"talking" films.  
e  In 1928: Chiang  Kai-shek  

was elected President of China 
by the Kuomintang. e In 1981: President Anwat Sadat was assassinated. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for October 5, 1989 

Volume In shares 
177.9 Million 
NYSE Index  
198.05  1} .07  
S&P Composite  
361.50  1} .20  

Dow Jones Industrials 
2,773.56 1}2.47 
Precious Metals Gold \l $3.60 to $367.90 1oz. Silver \l 8.5rt to $5.243 I oz. 
Source: AP 

Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
Friday, October 6, 1989
The Observer 



Attack of the killer plague at Notre Dame 
I've got THE PLAGUE. 
At least, that's what I told the doctor at the 
infirmary. Much to her amusement, I might add. 
Personally, I thought it was a remarkably ac­
curate self-diagnosis, since Kleenex has been 
making a killing on this campus in the past few 
weeks. 
I knew I was in trouble when my voice was not 
at its usual level during the Purdue game. All of 
a sudden the irritating tickle at the back of my 
throat and the slight nasal congestion that I'd 
been choosing to ignore combined to impair my 
usual spirit. I was left to stare in mute admira­
tion at Purdue's Internationally Famous Golden 
Girl in all her sequined Spandex glory. 
Sure enough, in the car on the way home the 
serious hacking started. My traveling compan­
ions complained that the drive home seemed 
three times longer than the one going there, and 
I was forced to admit to myself that it wasn't 
entirely due to the traffic, but was partially 
thanks to me, sitting crammed in the corner of 
the car, docilely coughing up my lungs and 
keeping them awake. 
By Sunday night I had a full-blown case of THE PLAGUE. I couldn't laugh without having a coughing fit, and my IQ had dropped by about 100 points since the amount of oxygen reaching my brain had decreased dramatically. 
I often wonder what professors must think with all of these plague cases sitting in their classrooms. They must either think we're the most dim-witted bunch it has ever been their misfortune to teach, or we must be doing their egos a world of good as we stare back at them, open-mouthed in apparent amazement at the wonders they are disclosing to us. Little do they know that we are merely trying to salvage what's left of our addled brain cells by inhaling oxygen through our mouths. 
There is a positive side to this inability to breathe, though. Think about it, fellow suffer­ers. When's the last time you could smell the odors emanating from the dining hall? 
My own PLAGUE case was problematic enough to warrant a pilgrimage to the cutting edge of modern medicine-THE INFIRMARY. 
The mere fact that I allowed my friend John to escort me there voluntarily must be a measure of how many IQ points I've lost, since when I have full command of my intelligence the mere mention of doctors fills me with extreme misgiv­ings. I think that stems from years of visiting the family physician, whom we have christened 'Quack.' Doctors inspire confidence in my very soul. 
OF INTEREST 
The South Carolina Club will meet sun­day at 1:30 p.m. in the Dooley Room, LaFortune, to discuss aid for the hurricane relief effort. 
Sophomore class volleyball tourna­ment will held Saturday Oct. 14. Teams of 5 or 6 sophomores with a minimum of 2 girls can reg­ister by Wednesday Oct.11. First prize is free Sophomore Formal tickets. Stop by the class of­fice in LaFortune or call 239-5225 for more in­formation. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Fnday excepl dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer 1s published by students of the Umvers1ty of Notre Dame and Sam! Marys College Subscnplions may be pur· chased lor $40 per year ($25 per semester! by wnt1ng The Observer 
The Observer is a member of The Assoc1a1ed Press All reproduct•on nghts are reserved 



'I often wonder what professors must think with all of these plague cases sitting in their classrooms.' 
Alison Cocks Production Manager 
Before I knew it I was in the presence of one of the quacks employed by the infirmary listen­ing to her chuckle over my self-diagnosis as she asked me if I had experienced any other strange ailments. 
Well, doctor, to tell you the truth, we were thinking of starting a leper colony when THE PLAGUE blows over. 
This doctor knew what she was doing, though. She realized that there is nothing anyone can do to relieve the symptoms of THE PLAGUE, that the best possible solution is to employ hard drugs to ensure that not only do sufferers for­get their ailments, but also that they have a nose and lungs to begin with. 
I would strongly recommend this option to all fellow sufferers. The doctor will forewarn you that ingestion of this particular medicine will preclude any alcohol intake. Just nod intelli­gently. You won't need alcohol. 
I took this medicine for the first time on Tuesday and am just starting to realize that there is a world around me. My colleagues at The Observer are ready to write this doctor a thank-you-note, I'm sure, for putting me so out of commission that they could have laid out the entire front page upside-down without my noticing. Their egos have been safe for three whole days now. 
Not only that, I feel I have gained invaluable insights into Vanna White's character. Remem­bering the alphabet is hard. 
The beauty of it is, no one carded me at the door of the infirmary, and all I have to do to re­new my prescription is barf up a lung. 
Maybe this PLAGUE thing isn't so bad after all. I could discover how surreal the world really is. The sympathy factor for me is sky-high at the moment. If only they knew ... 
Alison Cocks is a junior American Studies major. The opinion expressed in the Inside Column belongs to the author and is not neces­sarily that of The Observer. 
Philippine Club dancers will perform The Tinikling, a native dance, from 4:30 to 6 
p.m. today on the Fieldhouse Mall. 
The Isis Gallery presents a furniture exhi­bition by Phillip Tennant today from 5 to 7 p.m. tonight on the third floor of Hiley Hall of Art and Design. 
Alcohol Awareness Week, sponsored by BACCHUS, is next week, Oct. 9-13. Watch for posters with each day's events. 
Design EdJtor ......................... JoeZadrozny Design AssJtant ....................... Cristina Ortiz Typesetters .............................. Chris Zaback ....................................................Amalia Meier News EdJtor......-.....................KeiJey Tuthill News Copy Editor .................Monica Yant Sports Copy Editor........ Steve Megargee VIewpoint Edltor............... Christine Walsh Viewpoint Copy Editor ................................................. Janice O'Leary Viewpoint Layout ............. CoiJeen Stepan 
Accent Edtor..____ ....Robyn Simmons 
Accent Copy Editor ....... .Shonda Wilson Accent DesJgner .................. Brian Grunert Typlsls ........................................... Will lamer NO Day Editor.................Karen Balcerzak Photographer.......................Kyle Sanders Ads Designer ....... Val Poletto, Kathleen 
.... O'Connor, Amy Eckert, Anita Covelli, . ............... Meg Calahan 

.. 

Don't drink
;JJ 

and drive

5~ 
D(IV£ Friday, October 6, 1989 
The Observer page 3 

GSU to host conference 
By JOE MOODY News Staff 
Approximately 70 graduate leaders from 22 schools around the Midwest are expected to attend the Midwesf Region Conference of the National Association of Graduate and Profes­sional Students (NAGS). 
The event, which begins today and continues until Oct. 8, is hosted by the Graduate Student Union. 
"The GSU assumed the responsibil­ity of hosting this event in an attempt to increase Notre Dame's visibility among its peer graduate institutions," said GSU President Luis Canales. 
The key note address will be given by Thomas Linney, chairman of the Council of Graduate Schools on Saturday at 2:30 p.m. Linney will dis­cuss legislative issues affecting gradu­ate students. 
There will be day sessions con­ducted by graduate leaders covering a variety of topics. Regional coordinator Kevin Boyer of Northwestern Univer­sity, will discuss the traditional view of a minority student and how ·organiza­tion should facilitate interaction. 
Linda Taylor, founder of Notre Dame's Women's Resource Committee, and Alexis Walker of Saint Anselm's College will discuss women in academia as well as how to go about organizing a productive women's group. 
Teaching assistant development and training will be addressed by Sue Fust of the University of Minnesota. Luke Evans of Ohio State University will dis­cuss NAGS promotional strategies for the upcoming year, including new ideas for the membership. 
The conference will be an excellent 
opportunity for the faculty, administra­
tors and graduate students of the Uni­
versity to interact with student leaders 
of graduate schools throughout the 
Midwest, said Caneles. 

The conference, to take place in the Center for Continuing Education, will begin with a welcome from University President Father Edward Malloy on Saturday at 10 a.m. The initial regis­tration begins today from S-7 p.m. in the main lobby of the CCE. 

The Observer/Kyle Sanders 

In perfect harmony 
The faculty quartet makes music. From left to right: Karen Buranskas, cello; Victoria Chiang, viola; William Cerny, piano; Carolyn Plummer, violin. 
MON-THURS 11 :30AM-9:30PM FRJ-SAT 11:30AM-10:30PM SUNDAY 11 :30AM·9PM SUNDAY BUFFET 11 :30AM-3PM 
*N.D. a 
~ 
c. 
ui
~ 
U.S. 20 E. 
-+--------~~ 
293-0126 
1308 S. Nappanee St. 
* L..
Elkhart, IN 46516 
·-~~~ 
1"' 
1 .... ~..1 Szechwan Garden

~ 1•'"'!1.1 
~ /h 

Scientist relates science to art in lecture 
By ROBERT KELLY News Staff 
In his lecture "One Culture," Roald Hoffman, professor of physical science at Cornell Uni­versity, sought to show the close relationship between science and arts. 
Hoffman, a 1981 Nobellau­reate in chemistry, titled his lecture after a C.P. Snow essay which presented the view which Hoffman sought to disprove. 
In his lecture, the first of a two-part series, Hoffman bases his argument on his opposition to C.P. Snow's description of the fields of science and hu­manism as "two polar groups" mutually ignorant of each other. 
Hoffman, however.. said ~e 
sees the two as bemg qmte 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~~~~-~~~~~s~im~il~a~r~i~n~t:h~e~ir~g~o~a~l~s~a~n~d~ 
LEADERSHIP 


QUALITY 

INNOVATION 
Inland Steel is internationally recognized as a progressive company; a vital force in America's industrial community. Our consistent innovations con­tinue to offer challenging opportunities to dedicated people from a variety of disciplines: 
•MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS 

Find out more about our state-of-the-art, future-minded company and the stimulating challenges we offer our professionals. 
Inland Steel representatives will be on campus to conduct interviews on 
OCTOBER 17 

For additional information, consult the specific job descriptions in our com­
pany brochure at your placement office, or contact our Personnel Depart­
ment. 
Department 7-500 3210 Watling Street 

• Inland Steel
East Chicago IN 46312 

a subsidiary of Equal Opportunity Employer M/F Inland Steel Industries, Inc. 
methods, although these simi­larities might not be readily no­ticed without careful scrutiny. 
By presenting an example of work in chemistry, poetry and painting, Hoffman exhibited many ways in which these seemingly detatched fields are similar to each other, most im­portantly in the areas of their foundations, the communica­tion of their ideas, and, thus, their purposes. 
Hoffman said that neither a work of science nor a work of art is totally original in its foundations. In the same way that a scientist "stands on the backs of giants" when he bases his new molecular theory on the work of Isaac Newton, an artist does so by imitating the 
styles and themes of Rembrandt 
in his paintings. 
Under~aniling that the veryfoundations of science are simi­lar to those of art, is the first step in proving that "the rift between scientists and technol­ogists on the one hand and hu­manists on the other" is not as great as it might at first seem. 
According to Hoffman, how­ever, the similarities do not end here. The importance of com­munication in both fields is equally comparable. 
In the world of science, an American chemist will relay his theories to an English chemist and a German one, in order to find his goal. Communication in the arts is just as vital, H<>ff­man said. 
Hoffman said he realizes that an artist's main purpose in painting a portrait and a poet's main goal in writing a poem is to communicate his or her ideas to the world. 
In these ways, the artist and the scientist share the same purposes of foundation and communication, he said. 
In conclusion, Hoffman said that art and science are really much more similar than they look. Hoffman summarizes his own views by stating that the arts and the sciences are truly parts of one united culture and that this is the time "to praise the achievements of the human mind" as a whole. 


Placement Exams 
French Spanish 
Mandatory Placement Exams in French and Spanish will be given on Thursday October 12 and Friday October 13 respectively. Students who have studied French or Spanish in high school but have not yet taken a course in these languages at Notre Dame must take a Placement Exam prior to registration. 
Sign up sheets and further information are available in the Language Lab Office Room 251 O'Shaughnessy. 
Sign up closes on Wednesday October 11 at 5:00pm. 
page 4 



Curran 
continued from page 1 
papal decree concerning the 

r role of c'atholic universities in the Church, Curran called the document, "totally unsatisfac­tory," beoause it ~ould only al­low Catholic universities a lim­ited amount of freedom in the context uf t.he Church's teach­ings. 
The decree does not allow for the complete academic freedom that Curran feels is required if Catholics universi­ties do not want to lose their Catholic character, as many Protestant educational facilities have, he said. 
In conclusion, Curran pointed out that the Catholic Church can easily benefit from aca­demic freedom since free Catholic universities are "where the Church can maintain con­tact with the modern world." 
Join The Observer 
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYLING FOR 
_& N 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Directed by 
Reginald Bain 
Tickets ava•lable at the door 01 1n advance at Latonune Student Center Box Office MasterCard and V•sa Orders 239·7442 



Refugee 
continued from page 1 
Czechoslovakia, the only coun­try to which East Germans could go without first obtaining government permission. 
The agreement covered an es­timated 11 ,000 weary refugees who had converged on West Germany's embassy in the 
Czechoslovakian capital, but there were reports thousands of others throughout the East bloc were hoping to take part. 
A erowd of Czechs applauded as the first group left the em­bassy area to board buses to the train station. Helmeted riot police arrived and pushed the onlookers back. 
The Observer 


Bakker 
continued from page 1 
more peculiar luxuries, such as an air-conditioned doghouse. 
Bakker's wife, Tammy Faye, said she and her husband would return to Orlando, Fla., where they moved the die-hard remnants of their ministry. 
"It's not over until it's over," added Mrs. Bakker during a news conference after the ver­dict. Hundreds of Bakker faith­ful and the lunchtime curious flocked around the courthouse, and Mrs. Bakker serenaded them with a verse of "On Christ, the solid rock, I stand. 
All  other  ground  is  sinking  
sand."  
Bakker  was  freed  later  
Thursday  on  $250,000  bond  

imposed by U.S. District Court 
Attention all English majors! 
The English Major Club will be having a faculty-student softball game on Saturday, October 7th at 12 noon at the Moreau Seminary fields on Douglas Rd. 
Come and meet the Department's faculty and join the English Club! 

SPAGHETTI SPAGHETTI 
i

SPAGHETTI I .. 
at the DOMER DASH AND DINE 3 AND 6 MILE RUNS 
Saturday, October 7 11 :OOam Register at NVA 

"RUN FOR THE IRISH" 
[Before the Stanford Game] 
University Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran 
Malls -Elkhart
......~.....~~~.-~~...­
Friday, October 6, 1989 

Judge Robert Potter. The judge set sentencing for Oct. 24. 
''I'm going to keep my faith in God and I'm going to go see Tammy now. I feel sad but en­couraged in God," Bakker said, smiling in a brief midafternoon statement to reporters. He said he was "still innocent of the charges against me." 
Potter said he granted bond reluctantly because Bakker faithful had a "Jim Jones men­tality" and might help him flee the country. 
"They think he could walk on water," Potter said. Davis declared the reference to the 1978 murder-suicide of 
900 followers of Jim Jones' cult in Jonestown, Guyana, "horrible, absolutely uncalled for." 
Bakker showed little emotion as the verdict was read. Tears welled in the eyes of Mrs. Bakker, who also received large bonuses from PTL but was not charged with any crimes. 
The jury foreman said he was unswayed by Bakker's testi­mony, in which he defended his earnings as reasonable for someone who raised millions of dollars for the work of the Lord. 

COOL NORTH MEETING AGENDA 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6 
INTRODUCTION AND WELCOMING REMARKS 7:00P.M. COOL Organising Committee KEYNOTE ADDRESS 7:30P.M. at the Centre For Social Concerns. Father Edward Malloy will address the subject of college-student involvement in community service. 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7 
WORKSHOPS 10:15-11:05 
SERVICE AND THE CURRICULUM Students Teach Students on World Issues-Jerry Duff, Notre Dame Undertaking Community Service as Part of a Curriculum -Kathleen Maas Weigert, Notre Dame's Centre For Social Concerns BREAK AWAY Students Spend Their Summer Working in Their Community at Home -Mike Sheehan, Notre Dame 48 Hours Over Christmas Break in an "Urban Plunge" -Christy Anderson and Maureen Bennet, Notre Dame 
11:10-12:00 
WORKING WITH EX-PRISONERS Residents of "Dismas House" Make a New Start With Student's Help -Bill Guschwan. Notre Dame WORKING WITH THE HOMELESS Notre Dame's Homeless Shelter Provides Support to the Homeless in South Bend ­Diane Ricker, Notre Dame POST GRADUATE OPPORTUNITIES Service After College -Jane Pitz. Holy Cross 
1:30-2:20 
SERVICE AND THE CURRICULUM 2 Educating Students on the Problems in the Community -Mike Moody, Indiana University Centre on Philanthropy MIXING IT UP Mary Felis from the Multicultural Executive Council will show how service is capable of reaching a cross-section of cultures and backgrounds. 
2:25-3:10 
VOLUNTEER SERVICE ORGANISATIONS ON YOUR CAMPUS Indiana University Centre on Philanthropy -Mike Moody Notre Dame's Centre For Social Concerns-Kathy Royer,C.S.C. LITERACY ACTION The Basics of Literacy -How College Campuses Can Join in the Literacy Movement ­Louisa Meacham, COOL NATIONAL SERVICE How to Get Involved to Make the Difference-Kevin Mundy, Notre Dame 
#1 NOTRE DAME "FIGHTING IRISH" vs. #2 MIAMI "HURRICANES" 


THANKSGMNG FOOTBALL WEEKEND NOVEMBER 22·26, 1989 
COMPlETE PACKAGE INCWDES 
• 
ROUNDTRIP TRANSPORTATION TO AIRPORT 

• 
ROUNDTRIP JET FLIGHT TO MIAMI 

• 
4 NIGHTS AT THE LUXURIOUS SHAWNEE RESORT DIRECTLY ON BEAUTIFUL MIAMI BEACH 

• 
TRANSFERS TO THE "ORANGE BOWL" 

• 
NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI GAME TICKET 

• 
GREAT AMERICAN'S TOUR STAFF ON-LOCATION 

• 
ALL TAXES AND GRATUITIES INCLUDED 


TRIP PRICE: $435.00, quad occupancy. $150.00 Deposit to reserve your spot Visa and Mastercard accepted 
Contact the Student Activities Office: Notre Dame 239-7308 315 LaFortune Center Saint Mary's 284-4561 103 Haggar Center 
Friday, October 6, 1989 
The Observer pageS 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional To Cubi, E.T., Karen, & MeganHey, Hey ALF: Wake up and get To our favorite NDH worker-the pie 

couple in Midwest wishes to adopt was great, read next ad. 
SERVE'S UP!! A few last words: 
ready for some action!!! at the 1.Hey you guys, get that hair out of newborn. We offer stable and happy 



Class 
MIZUNO VOLLEYBALL CONTEST your teeth! home, financial security, welcoming 
RESEARCH ASSISTANT continued from page 12 Here's Ur Footnote 2.Whose hair was that anyway? 
extended family. PLEASE call collect FACI FAC! FAC! FACI FAC! FAC! 
513-751-6711 after 6:30pm STUDENT TICKETS same time same place same day 
Come see the Irish volleyball team 3.Megan, that green thing ..was it from 
"ILuvU" 

play this weekend and participate in your nose or your sandwich? weekdays, anytime 
Thanx the Mizuno Serving Contest for 4.Yes, Cubi, you are the real golden FOR SALE same sherms---NEW ROOMMATE! 
weekends.Attorney involved. come & meet Eugene -the luckiest guy 
P.S. GO GIANTS GO!! 
valuable sporting good prizes. girl
3 sets of student tickets for sale; If on campus! (with 4 hot, pretty wild, HELP
Friday ND vs. Northern Illinois 5.Let's grab a little ... 
interested contact Bart at pretty rad, pretty hip chicks) I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE 
Saturday ND vs. Eastern Michigan NEED GA'S FOR USC AND PITI. 6.Megan, I don't think this is a water 
234·4422 or Blanca at 232-3330 Be there for an "endearing" time! TO CINCINNATI FOR THE WEEK­
7:30p.m. at the Joyce ACC fountain
CALL CHRIS AT x1067 END OF 10/13-15. CALL JIM7. Are we talking gallons or pints?
TOP 5 KOZ QUOTES AT X4221 
8.Karen, who were those three guys? 
5. "I have six friends, including myseH." 
2 PITI STUDS FOR SALE. CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable Show my brother from 9.We didn't really drink 1 1/2 pitchers 
4. "Keep your wallet open and your Top 1 0 quotes of the year -so far
BEST OFFER BY FRI 7PM atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, Northwestern what football is each-in 45 minutes! 
pants shut." 1 0. Polo and Budweiser? 
LEAVE MESSAGE X4897 pool table, English darts, and great really like. Sell me your NAVY 10.Why does everyone leave here witt
3. "you're so cute ... you remind me of a 9. mm's a babe.
company. 234·3541 ticket. Call Martin at 3343. thosehuge wet spots on their shirts? 
pelican." 8. Who's got a big M? 
Thanks for the memories, NEED 1 USC & 1 PITI GA CALL BOO! The Chicago Brat 
2. "I don't want my roomate to get 7. Cool beaners, Dude! 16550R 4224 raped by a fat chick." 6. You're just trying to make 
HALLOWEEN DECOR 1. "She shot the ping pong ball across me lookup!

HAS ARRIVED!! THE GANGSTER OF LOVE: 
BELL YGRAMS, BALLOONS, 
the room." 5. I'm tired of sucking on foam!
WANTED: 1 USC STUDENT TIC 
LOOKING FOR A PARTNER IN WILL TRADE FOR PITI STUD OR 
SINGING TELEGRAMS, 255-3355
HAPPY 21st KIM, J & D 4. I only drink when I'm drunk. 
We have webs, candy, cutouts, masks, "CRIME." CALL X4783. ASK FOR $$CALL ERIC 1803 
3. He's WHERE, doing WHAT? 

makeup, wreaths, bows and more at: HAPPY BIRTHDAY THE GANGSTER. 
ENGLISH LESSONS. 2. How 'bout that GREAT Pro 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER VERONICA GONZALAS 
Experienced teacher of English to wrestling?!
LaFortune Lower Level !!!!!!!!!!!!!! Forget the year of the family, this is the 
HAPPY 20TH foreigners offers private lessons. $8 1. I can't -I'm Catholic! 
M-F 12-5 -Sat. 11-2 year of money. 
AMY RAZZ!! per hour. 232-6831. And remember -only the GOOD die 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MOUSE WeareN. D. 
HOPE YOU'RE READY FOR SOME young!
FROM DADTURDINSHELL AND We are greedy!!!I 
SHOTS!!! THE ROAD KNOTI TAKEN STACY: Happy Birthday! We love you WOMAN. 
even though you wish we were dead. Happy 19th Veronica Gonzalez! ST. PAUL AND THE MARTYRS --The little finger creatures 
Bon voyage and happy walking to Need student to teach our two everyone going to D. C. for the March. 
Buy your KNOTI SYR tix for Love, Amy, Laura and Karen 
daughters aged 8 and 9 , to play Pray that our efforts for the homeless"THE CANONIZATION TOUR" AT Why watch the game this Saturday 
Oct.14! 

piano. 4 mi. north of ND. 
will be effective.!! 
MCCORMICK'S when you can see CHICAGO? P.S. Watch for those ND 
Late afternoons, place negotiable. 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6 Ride the WINDY CITY SHUTILE CREATURES!
Kathy 277-7446. 

and shop 'till you drop! Get your Hi Annie!! Miss me this weekend with ADOPTION: Loving coupleST. PAUL AND THE MARTYRS tickets now at the LaFortune SATURDAY SPECIAL 
Katie and John and the Indiana-no­NEEDED: 4 OR 6 NAVY GA's dreaming of adopting white infant. 
Information Desk, #239-8128. 11-2
place gang!!! Bye Di! KEVIN: Hope I can make your 
CALL ANNETIE 284-4344LET'S HELP EACH OTHER! 
10% off EVERYTHING Legal/confidential. Expenses paid. 
in

22nd+ birthdays your happiest. 
Way to go Siegfried Slammers!! I!!! I love you! FYG, LORI 
Kathy Gliwa: Great Music!!! 
Call Lillian and Ed collect. 

THE CC>UNTRY HARVESTER ANYTIME (212) 645-4344 
ROOZBEH! Great Comedy!!! Good luck this Sunday against Lyons! 
Come down and browse (Yes, I'm still weird) DAVID LIPPMAN 

Happy 20th Jody 
Vidi Veni Vici 

We are so proud of you, Jody Love, Dad, Mom & Kids 
LowerLeveiLaFortuneFri nile -Theodore's Gretchen and Cynthia, 

M.V. P,s Siegfried Slammers THEY'RE POSING AS ACORNS HiAg! 
nominated by "guess who" 
BUT THEY'RE NOT ACORN DILLON NIGHT AT THE MOVIES 
ODE TO THE GIRLS IN THE ANNEX: 
The best sports talk on radio is heard every Sunday night at 9 on Country 

-FRIDAY-Without any panties 102, WGTC-FM. The voice of NotreSEAN CONNERY IN HIS you'll so(Jn find out Dame basketball, Jack Loria, and ACADEMY AWARD WINNING Your buns will freeze Notre Dame Associate Athletic ROLE! 
without any doubt Director, Roger Valdiserri, host this 9:00 THE UNTOUCHABLES Speaking of your rump hour-long program. If it's sports 11 :30 MONTY PYTHON'S you'd better beware controversy -pro or college . you'llHOLY GRAIL Dillon men will jump :1ear all about it on Sportsline. For 
to get your underwear questions, comments, all the news onIN THE DILLON PARTY ROOM, Oh, we never thought your favorite teams, call Jack andWHERE THE FILMS ARE free we'd have so much fun Roger every Sunday evening at 277­AND SO IS THE FUN! 
But it's a war you sought 1 023 or 1-800-447-1 023. They bring
So the game has begun along a special quest every week, andKEVIN COSTNER. .. 
this week you'll enjoy the comments of ROBERT DENIRO ... 

ATIENTION SOPHOMORES: There 
Sports Illustrated's Rick Telander. 

SEAN CONNERY ... 
will be a class volleyball Author of the book "The 100 Yard Lie"
tourney Sat. Oct. 14. Teams of 5 or 6 
and a controversial article in Slthis-THE UNTOUCHABLES­

(min. 2 girls). $10 entry fee. Deadline: 
month on college sports, Rich is sure

Wed. Oct. 11. Stop by class office or 
to be an interesting guest this week. 

FRIDAYAT9:00 
call 239-5225, x2079, or x2735 for 
Tune in Sunday at 9 pm for Sportsline IN THE DILLON PARTY ROOM details. 

on Country 102.3 WGTC-FM. 

-FREE-
Saturday October 7,1989 





9:00 P.M. -1:00 A.M. South Dining Hall 
Food and desserts from countries such as Europe, China, South America etc.... just waiting to be tasted by you and your friends. 
FREE FOOD AND ADMISSION ! ! 
Don't let an SYR stop you from attending this spectacular event. Bring your date for some great food and areal special atmosphere. The dress is casual elegance so don't feel like you won't fit in. 
GREAT FOOD GREAT ATMOSPHERE GREAT DANCE MUSIC DANCE CONTESTS 
There's no doubt that you'll have a GREAT time ! 
Sponsored by Student Union Board and The Multicultural Executive Council 



Viewpoint
page 6 Friday, October 6, 1989 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chros Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Mat1hew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager .Alison Cocks Accent Editor .John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .. Eric Ba1ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor ...Chnstlne G1ll Controller Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper publ1shed by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1mstrahon of e1ther 'nshtul1on The news 1s reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Uns1gned ed1toroals represent the op1n10n of the matonty of the follow1ng· Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef. Managmg Ed1tor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor, Viewpoint Ed1tor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Samt Mary's Ed1tor. Commentanes, let1ers. and the inside Column present the v1ews of thelf authors Column space IS available to all members of the commumty and the tree express1on oi vary1ng op1mons on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 


r 
r 
Freedom is paramount in abortion decision 
r r 
lenge. There is, moreover, no ception of their child? How em­This issue had a very real man in an attempt to end theBy Paul Peralez moral justification for a soci­barrassing a thought. How significance to me quite re­legal protection lest we return ety, through its neglect and im­even more impractical the no­cently. A fellow student, within to the days of clandestine and Timothy Homer, a conserva­passivity, to provide no work­tion of antenatal citizenship. a week of his arrival at Notre dangerous "coat-hanger" abor­tive Democrat seeking to repre­able alternative but abortion. Perhaps those of you who Dame, received a distressing tions. If abortion were made il­sent this district in the United This is precisely what America view abortion as an alternative call from home. His girlfriend legal, only the wealthy could States House of Representa­has done. Invariably, the same and who respect a woman's believed she was pregnant. afford the means of traveling tives, spoke to a small group of people who denounce abortion right to have one if she so Teary eyed, he called home to abroad to have abortions in a prospective campaign workers are the same people who op­chooses may, in light of inform his family, and they of­safe and dignified atmosphere. recently. Well educated and pose pre-natal care for gravid Romer's position, nonetheless fered him their consolation and Other women would be forced handsome, Romer appears to and poverty-stricken women support his candidacy. Frankly, support. Fortunately, this to give birth to their children or be a promising politico. I do, oppose sex education in the I will likely do the same. Many young woman ultimately face possible death. In the end, however, differ with Romer on nation's public schools and op­of you are probably wondering learned that she was not preg­the plight of the poor woman a very significant issue: abor­pose government support of why I have thus focused so in­nant; she did not have to will be exacerbated, society tion. Romer is adamantly op­these children upon their birth. tensely on this single issue. choose abortion. Nonetheless, overburdened, and government posed to abortion. Timothy Romer is an exception. Well, because I value freedom, I'm glad the choice was there will have denied a freedom 
Abortion has induced ferment Clearly, the pragmatic ramifi­and freedom is central to this and that the choice was hers to which it is pledged to protect: across the nation. The Catholic cations of opposing abortion debate. Central is the freedom make. freedom of choice. Church has been the most influ­are compelling and plentiful. I of a woman to choose and the Timothy Romer may very well ential institution to decry believe, however, there is an is­freedom of a child from a har­be elected to represent this dis­abortion as tantamount to sue even more compelling: that rowing experience in a world trict in the United States murder. To a community com­of a woman's sovereignty. where he is unwanted and un­Congress. I would hope he Paul Peralez is a student in prised of an overwhelming Women must be permitted to cared for. wouldn't join other Congress-the Freshman Year of Studies. number of Catholics, this issue choose in matters concerning is of special significance and is their physical well-being. In 
LETTERS
doubly so since Romer is a "Roe vs. Wade", the Supreme Notre Dame graduate. Romer Court of the United States cites expe'cts to garner the support the constitutional right to pri­of the Notre Dame community. vacy as a justification for a 

Congress practices artistic censorship
Before we humor Romer's ex­woman to have an abortion if pectations, however, careful she so chooses. Moreover, the consideration should be given court elucidated, an unborn Dear Editor: 
have to worry whether or not a to his opposition of abortion as child is not a citizen of the I found Regis Coccia's column particular piece will be found to an alternative to an otherwise United States and thus hot pro­in Monday's Observer (Oct. 2) have "artistic merit" in a Con­unwanted birth. tected by the United States deeply disturbing. According to gressional subcommittee. Sub­
Romer insists that adoption Constitution. Mr. Coccia, Congress is justified sidy of certain artists gives is the best alternative for an If the Constitution is rewrit­in banning funds to what they them a great advantage over unwanted child. Adoption is ten so unborn children are perceive as obscene or merit­the other artists by giving them not, however, a viable alterna­guaranteed rights as citizens, less art. So Jessie Helms will greater accessibility to gal­tive. Thousands of minority an undertaking which Timothy decide for us what has artistic leries. children, neglected by their Romer woUld likely support, an merit. Yikes! The Endowment was created parents and by society, languish entirely new question would be Congress created the Na­to promote artistic freedom in our inner cities. They are spurred: could a pregnant tional Endowment for the Arts and growth. Now it is being trapped within an invisible wall woman be incarcerated since to free artists of the commer­used as an instrument of cen­of hopelessness and decay from her unborn child would be un­cial pressures abiding in the sorship by supporting only which escape is most arduous duly imprisoned? Pettifoggers, Unites States marketplace. A Congressionally acceptable and uncertain. Where are the championing the cause of these vibrant artistic culture was artists, promoting some at the lines of people waiting to adopt yet unborn citizens would add deemed important for the expense of others. To keep the these dispossessed and disillu­considerable strain to an al­health and growth of the na­Mr. Coccia is wrong when he arts alive we need an Endow­sioned children? I venture to ready overburdened courts sys­tion. Congress considered free­states that Congressional con­ment free of loose strings. guess that they do not exist. tem. The place of conception, dom essential to support an straints on the Endowment are Otherwise we are left with the 
There is, I strongly believe, no and not of birth, would become artistic culture that constantly not censorship. Congressional Jessie Helms' Foundation for 
moral justification for a the determinant of citizenship. challenged and redefined art, support of only certain accept­the Arts. woman to give birth to a child How could such claims of citi­rather than relied on the mech­able artists immediately limits to whom she can give only a life zenship be verified? Would po­anisms of earlier artistic the freedom of the entire artis­Patrick Ninneman of extremity -a life where base tential parents have to summon movements. Now Congress has tic community. Artists depen­Off-campussurvival is a persistent chat-a barrister to witness the con-backed away from this view. dent on the Endowment will Oct. 2, 1989 
DOONESBURV CARRY r F~UDF AU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'One of the marks of maturity is the need for solitude .. .' 
Lewis Mumford (1895-1982) 


Viewpoint 1 
Friday, October 6, 1989 
page 7 1 

'Make Your Own Jesus' special thrives at ND 
When I first heard that Notre Dame would be presenting "The Glenn G. Fogarty Last Temptation of Christ," I can't say I was a bit surprised. In the past few years I have lis­With No Apologies tened to enough bizarre homilies and big-shot theologi­he didn't know it." Didn't know cal "innovators" around here to it, eh? That's quite a proposi­know that reverence for our tion. Lord and Savior no longer has With such gross absurdities a place in the hearts of many at bandied about, it is therefore this University. hardly surprising that a movie 
Jesus has often been de­which presents Our Lord as a scribed to me as being the burned-out, neurotic hippie equivalent (if that) of a would provoke more than two Socrates, a Buddha, a Gandhi, cents worth of outcry at Notre bring "Last Temptation" to out the Non-violent tendencies was passing by the Taj Mahal a Lenin, a Che Guevara, or any Dame. The liberal theologians Notre Dame and degrade our in you! Use Gandhi Opium. yesterday and thought about number of other "great men"; who have defended the film are Savior, I figure that it's my job Gandhi: But it doesn't how nice it would be to hold sometimes He is even ludi­in essence seeing a reflection of to give them a taste of their rhyme, and it has no tune. court there and receive the crously presented as a proto­themselves on the screen; they own poison, and take a good Nehru: Oh, bother! Your fol­worship of everyone. It would Marxist political liberator or a are aging 60's-style radicals swift kick at a favorite Golden lowers will do anything if it be my palace. Pilgrims from the rabid feminist. who are still trying to "find Calf. Thus, I present to you bears your name. Catholic universities of the 
It has become increasingly themselves" through a rebellion Last of Yes! it West would come to adore Me
"The Temptation Gandhi: Yes! I see apparent that the people who against a perceived Gandhi:" now. Wo can build an interna­there. Or would they go to hold such things, and who find "establishment." In this case Lenin's mausoleum? 
tional conglomerate purely on "Last Temptation" inoffensive, the "establishment" is the his­(Scene: Gandhi & Nehru, lovable little me. "Gandhi" Nehru: Maybe both. What if 
believe in "personal" versions torical and testimonial basis of with Opium pipes in hand) lunchboxes and bubble-gum you die before then? ,of Jesus that are completely di­our Lord's identity. Gandhi: So what? I'll proba­
Nehru: You know, man, this shall sell like hotcakes. We'll 1vorced from the Gospels, Chris­The will among many to stuff is really groo-fee. unveil a whole line of Nonvio­bly be reincarnated as a Cow, 1 
tian tradition, and history. The "make one's own Jesus" has Gandhi: Yes, really groo-fee, lent Automobiles. Women will and be worshipped then, too. , 
theological equivalent of an Ice­had one effect: it makes the doot. The best in all Ind-ya! love Mahatma brand designer Or maybe I'll be a Golden Calfl Cream sundae bar, the "Make real Jesus irrelevant to the Nehru: You know, Gahn-dee, Saris. My book "How Fasting (Exeunt) Your Own Jesus" special, is modern world. This degenera­we could make a rather large Can Make You a Big Shot in 90 
now a regular feature at Notre tion into irrelevancy can most sum of rupee selling this days or Less" will sell in the I'm positive this won't be 
Dame; sweet-tasting toppings, easily be noticed in that most around all Ind-ya. We should billions. Yes, political grand­made into a movie anytime or "Characteristics," are placed of the cant delivered by such 
form a partnership, old boy. standing and personality cults soon. Even if it were, it 
on top of Jesus. These toppings "believers" is not about Christ, Gandhi: Yes! Yes! I already do have their perks! wouldn't be playing at the are determined by whatever is but about modern secular had that taut. We shall call our Nehru: Any other ideas? Snite. It would provoke too palatable to the "Christian" heroes and "liberators." A veri­splendid product "Homespun 
Gandhi: Yes! How about life­great an outcry. After all, the whose true gods are politics table totem-pole has been Opium." The followers of my size statues of Me so consumers modern Golden Calves receive and various forms of "social raised, with the idols engraved personality cult will snap it up could have all the comforts of much more respect around here liberation." One female theology thereupon ranging from wishy­in a jiffy. in-home worship. We could sell than does God Incarnate. instructor a few years ago, for washy pacifists to bloodthirsty Nehru: Righto, chap! Here's two of them to Notre Dame,
instance, was reportedly Marxist killers. And, since the a jingle for the ad on the telly: who are ridding themselves of Glenn G. Fogarty is a junior
teaching that "Christ was actu­r.eople who worship before this Do you want to be reduced to that woman on the Dome, and history/ALPA major and is a ally a woman on the inside, but totem-pole have seen fit to complete passivity? If so, bring that Jesus character in front of_ regular Viewpoint columnist. 

LETTERS 
Jazz professor apologizes to NO's Alcohol policy demands student reponsibility
African American community 
Dear Editor: becomes a matter of campus It is this same responsibility Dear Editor: erately made an overt racial Matt Gallagher's Sept. 26 security. Rector assistants do that Gallagher attempts to 
Even though we at Notre statement in any of the classes column attacking the University not patrol white and red fields evade by arguing that the alco­Dame may consider ourselves I have taught. The problem alcohol policy expresses legiti­with a list of their underage hol policy encourages drunk to be very Christian, quite en­arises perhaps from a certain mate argument. Inconsistent residents, attempting to en­driving and alcoholism. To ac­lightened and thus basically careless insensitivity on my enforcement of the alcohol pol­force the alcohol policy. cuse the University of "forcing free of racial bias and preju­part that does not always icy does certainly detract from Instead, campus Security students to drive to bars and dice, there may well remain in gauge the effect that a state­the legitimacy itself. However, deals with alcohol consumption off campus parties to consume our lives, in our thoughts and ment of an historical or socio­Gallagher's argument contains in the context that it occurs: alcohol" is senseless. Gal­in our actions certain residuals logical fact may have on certain crucial misinterpretations of Tens of thousands of visitors, lagher's claim that "the alcohol of historical racism. It may not students who are personally in­alcohol policy context and the alumni, and students drinking­policy makes it more difficult to manifest itself in deliberate and volved in and touched by those responsibilities that accompany regardless of age. With this identify and attempt to help intentional comments or appel­facts. the policy. context, it is ridiculous to problem drinkers" is also un­lations of a negative or hateful I take this opportunity to Upon establishment of the expect campus Security to as­founded. Safe transportation nature, but rather perhaps in a most sincerely and deeply apol­current University alcohol pol­sume the· responsibilities ex­and the identification of prob­certain insensitivity and lack of ogize to any students I may icy, Notre Dame officials placed pected of hall staffs and en­lem drinkers are responsibili­awareness for the deep-seated have unintentionally offended in the brunt of enforcement upon force the letter of the alcohol ties that students must accept. feelings of others. my classes. In the future I will the shoulders of hall staff and policy. They are not issues blamed 
It has been pointed out to me certainly strive to deepen the rector assistants. For 360 days While this inconsistency may upon and ill-founded alcohol that I have disturbed and of­level of my personc_l sensitivity a year, Hall staffs control the lessen the legal legitimacy of policy. fended some students in my In­in those areas which might be consumption of alcohol accord­the alcohol policy, it in no way The University alcohol policy troduction to Jazz class by potentially disturbing and hurt­ing to what Gallagher refers to detracts from the principle be­exists to establish a principle of some of the statements made in ful for some students. I further as "the infamous alcohol pol­hind the policy itself. The Uni­responsibility that concerns my presentations-statements see this growth in awareness as icy." versity alcohol policy is essen­campus security, hall staffs, that were viewed by some as a very fitting and worthy goal On weekends of home football tially a distribution of respon­and students. Each of these being racially biased, deroga­for all in our Notre Dame games, however, the Notre sibility. As stated, much of this must enforce this principle ac­tory and prejudicial. community. Dame campus undergoes a responsibility falls on hall cording to its means and con­
By this letter I assure them in dramatic change that directly staffs and campus security. text. all sincerity that this was not concerns enforcement of the al­However, a substantial measure and never has been my inten­Father George Wiskirchen cohol policy. No longer is the of this responsibility is also Matt Janchar tion. I have never-underline Assistant Director of Bands control of alcohol consumption vested in the students them­Grace Hall "never"-intentionally or delib-Oct. 2, 1989 a responsibility of hall staffs; it selves. Sept. 26. 1989 
South Bend Crop Walk offers an opportunity to help the hungry 
Dear Editor: !em. funded projects and shelters a.m. at Stepan Center. What is for the Homeless. The remain­
If you have the opportunity, Church World Service is are­can sometimes be. a Crop Walk? It isn't stomping ing funds help people grow skip a meal to experience lief, development and refugee Church World Service puts its all over agricultural fields. It is more bountiful crops by facili-. hunger. In doing so, you will assistance arm of the National greatest emphasis on self-de­a world-wide outreach opera­tating better seed selection, wa­receive a small taste of what Council of Churches of Christ in velopment. I feel this is the tion whose goal is to stop ter development, storag.e facili­13-18 million people die of each the United States. I find sup­most effective way to improve hunger. Founded in Bismark, ties, market access roads, and year. Each minute, 24 people, port of organizations like living in impoverished situa­North Dakota in 1969, Crop is appropriate technology for that 18 of whom are children under Church World Service worth­tions. This organization helps a name given to walks and particular area. the age of five, die of hunger while because of my experience people help themselves. By ana­other local community efforts See your hall community ser­and starvation. Try to imagine at a Catholic Worker Hospital­lyzing the causes of the prob­for hunger education and vice commissioner to join the a bus full of 24 children head­ity House this summer in Ari­lems involved with feeding the fundraising under Church Crop Walk-Be a part of this ing home, meeting a tragic ac­zona. Witnessing and partici­hungry and sheltering the World Service. group effort to stop hunger. cident and killed in your home­pating in a food line six nights homeless, CWS has set the goal The South Bend Crop Walk town. How would your com­a week, serving anywhere from of strengthening long term has chosen the unique option of munity react? If hunger con­750 to 1,200 people a night problem-solving at the local returning up to 25 percent of sumed lives as quickly as auto­certainly opened my eyes. I be­level. what we raise to local hunger Mary Susan Twohey 
mobile accidents do, we would came aware of how institution­The South Bend Crop Walk programs such as the South Lyons Hall all be more aware of the prob-alized neglect by government will begin this Sunday at 11:45 Bend Food Bank and the Center Oct. 3, 1989 






' Stc lee
' 


MATTHEW SPATZ 
accent writer 

This weekend, the mighty Fighting Irish of Notre Dame will find themselves facing an opponent of such strength, such power, such magnitude, that it could only be ... a tree? Yes, its time once again for the classic match-up between Stan­ford and ND. It can only mean the return of that arboreal sen­sation, the Stanford Tree. Don't call him a mascot, he'll tell you that's for the Cal Bears. He's a symbol for the school, representing more than simply athletic spirit. He is that entity which embodies the liberal mood of Stanford. He's Gil Blank. 
As a senior in a New Jersey prep school, he had his dream of attending an M.I.T. or Har­vard and remaining in the East. Fed up with the college admis­sion system, and overcome with senior apathy, he sent this pic­ture along with his application to Stanford and wrote "A pic­ture is worth a thousand words." He was accepted im­mediately. Not knowing what to expect from the West Coast bastion of liberal academia, Gil kept his mind open, looking for something which would make his college experience meaning­ful. Impressed by the antics of 
camP.US & 
in town fri.
MOVIES 
"Fletch" Engineering Auditorium, at 8 p.m. "Better Off Dead" 
Engineering Auditorium, at 10:15 p.m. 
"Tucker: The Man and His Dreams" Annenberg Aud.,7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 

MUSIC 
David Lippman
Theodore s, 7:30 to 9 p.m. St. Paul and the Martyrs McCormick's 9 p.m. Boathouse Blues Band Grace Hall's Underground, 9 p.m. 

THEATER 
"Marne" Morris Civic Auditorium, 8 p.m. 
"Madame Butterfly" O'Laughlin Auditorium, St. Mary's: 8 p.m. SOLD OUT 
MOVIES sat. 
"Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure" Engineering Auditorium, 8 & 
10:15 p.m. 


THEATER 
"Marne" Morris Civic Auditorium, 2 & 8 p.m. 

CAMPUS 
Taste of Nations 
South Dining Hall9 p.m. to 1 a.m. 


sun.
MUSIC 
Great White, Tesla, with guest Badlands 
Morris Civic Auditorium, 7:30p.m. 
NO Faculty Piano Quartet Annenberg Auditorium, 2 p.m. 


local •
movies 
University Park East sex, lies, and videotape Johnny Handsome Turner and Hooch Lethal WeaiJon 2 Dead Poets Society Uncle Buck 





DEBBIE CHARLESWORTH 
accent writer 
If you are looking for some­thing different to do this Satur­day night, why not visit South Dining Hall? From 9 p.m. to 1 
a.m. the Multicultural Execu­tive Committee, with the sup­port of the SUB, is hosting the Taste of Nations. The event is the culmination of a week long festival that started last Sun­day. This is the fourth year of Multicultural Fall Festival, which is intended to promote the sharing of cultures and ethnic backgrounds, while also having fun. 
One of the week's events con­sisted of daily fireside chats, informal lunchtime talks with different speakers about their cultural experiences. If you couldn't make the Fireside Chats, perhaps you noticed the "Culture on the Quad," which consisted of various stands sponsored by the different eth­nic organizations on campus . If you missed both lunchtime events, you may have noticed the live entertainment from various cultures around the world. Performances were featured on the Fieldhouse Mall from 4:30 to 6:30 in the after­noon throughout the week. 

The entertainment doesn't end there, because tonight from 
7:30 to 9 p.m. folk singer and comedian, David Lippman, will be performing at Theodore's. 


Want to know how to get into a major university? Ask Gil Blank, who submitted his admission's application. Blank portrays the symbol of Stanford University, th~ 



He will bring humor and music  
from Central America, and like  
all the events of the week, this  
one is also free of charge.  
The finale of this week-long  
festival, The Taste of Nations,  
will be held on Saturday night  
from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the  
South Dining Hall.  
The event will featun~ thP  
cuisines of eight different re­ 
gions of the world. For exam­ 
ple, the nations of Scandinavia  
will be represented by such  
delectables as chocolate fon­ 
due, cheese fondue and various  
seafood delicacies.  
For those who crave sweets,  
pastries form France, Italy,  
and Greece will be offered at  
several booths. Baklava, a  
light flaky pastry filled with  
nuts and coated with cinnamon  
syrup is one of the Grecian pas­ 
tries that will be served. Other  
assorted desserts such as  
eclairs, petit fours, lady fingers.  
cream puffs and cannolis will  
also be presented.  
Desserts, however, are only a  
part of the foods offered on  
Saturday night. Oriental foods  
such as egg rolls and stir-fried  bread. Foods from Africa, the  
shrimp will also be on the  Philippines and South America  
menu.  will also be served in various  
Exotic foods from the Middle  booths at the Taste of Nations.  
East will also be prepared for  Last, but certainly not least, a  
the evening. Marinated beef  booth representing North  
and fresh vegetables on a  America will feature such fa­ 
skewer is a Lebanese entree  vorites as mini hot dogs, pop­ 
which will be offered. Another  corn, and tiny barbecued spare  
Middle Eastern entree offered  ribs.  
will be chick pea salad on pita  After you have satisfied your  








ISH 
_XTRA 
Friday, October 6, 1989

Notre Dame vs. Stanford 

THE GAME 
,. 
I_ i\ug. 31 Sept. 16 Sept. 23 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 
Sept. 2 
Sept. 9 
Sept. 23 
Sept. 30 
Oct. 7 
Oct. 14 
Oct. 21 
Oct. 28 
Nov. 4 
Nov. 11 
Nov. 18 



Lyght bets on success 
By MARY GARINO 
Sports Writer 
Todd Lyght is a man on a mission. 
Lyght, the starting short cornerback, wants an interception every game this year. Or, at the very least, he wants to have more interceptions than teammates Stan Smagala, Pat Terrell and D'Juan Francjsco. So far, he's right on track for both goals. 
"We have a little contest between the sec­ondary," Lyght says. "Last year, Pat Terrell led the team in interceptions as far as the sec­ondary is concerned, and this year I'm in the lead. Pat got one against Purdue, and so we were giving Stanley Smagala and D'Juan Fran­cisco a hard time. They have to buy dinner after the games until they get one." 
Lyght has been credited with an interception in every game so far this season, and he hopes to keep it up for the rest of the year. If anyone can do it, Lyght can. His athletic ability and 4.40 speed make him one of the best cornerbacks in college football. · 
"Even my wife says to me every week, 'Boy, that Todd Lyght's a great athlete,"' says Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "I think Todd Lyght dur­ing the summer made some decisions on what he was going to do with his life. I might be wrong, but I think he made a decision to be out­standing." 
Todd and some of his fellow teammates did indeed make a commitment to the team over the summer. They decided that one national championship wasn't enough, and they want at least one more. 
"We knew we had the capability to do it, and great coaching," Lyght says. "We knew what it was like to win, and so we made the commitment to strive to be the best we can be." 
Lyght was a highly recruited high school Todd Lyght (1) bats down a pass. 
see LYGHT, page 3 


Terrell more than Miami hero 
nior free safety from St. Petersburg, Fla., "But the game 
By KEN TYSIAC 
really placed me at a higher level than I expected, so I've
Sports Writer 
tried to play up to the standards that I set in thatPat Terrell will always be remembered for his part in 
game."

the most important play of the 1988 college football Now Terrell anchors an outstanding defensive sec­season. By reaching out and deflecting Steve Walsh's ondary, barking out signals to his backfield mates andtwo-point conversion pass safely out of the ~eac~ of ~e­punishing opposing receivers who dare to try to catchceiver Leonard Conley, Terrell assured the F1ghtmg Insh the ball in his zone. But it wasn't always that way.
of a 31-30 victory over the Miami Hurricanes in their In fact, Terrell spent the first two years of his colle­sixth game of the 1988 campaign. 
giate football career as a split end, but since Tim BrownBut Terrell deserves recognition for his play since that caught most of the passes for the Irish, Pat was usuallyhistoric game as well. Terrell, who also returr~ed ~n in­was the quarterback's second or third option on anyterception for a touchdown in Notre Dame s biggest pass play. So when the Irish coaching staff was lookinggame of the decade, has proven to be more than just a for somebody to bolster their defensive secondary, Ter­one-game hero. 
rell was nominated for the job. 
"Sometimes people say that there would be no Pat Ter­
see TERRELL, page 4

rell if it hadn't been for the Miami game," muses the se-
Notre Dame (4-0) vs. Stanford (1-3) 
1 p.m. PDT, 3 p.m. South Bend time 
No live television coverage, Sports Channel syndication tape-delay Mutual Radio Network, Tom Pagna, Tony Roberts 
The game is sold out. 
Notre Dame 1st Stanford unranked 
Notre Dame leads 4-1 
Notre Dame 42, Stanford 14 
ND 36, Virginia 13 ND 24, Michigan 19 ND 21, Michigan St. 19 ND 40, Purdue 7 at Stanford at Air Force 
usc 
PITTSBURGH NAVY SMU at Penn State at Miami 
Arizona 19, Stanford 3 Oregon St. 20, Stanford 16 Stanford 18, Oregon 17 San Jose St. 40, Stanford 33 NOTRE DAME at Washington St. UTAH at USC UCLA at Arizona St. CALIFORNIA 
LAST WEEK 
WEST LAFAYETTE -Notre Dame's top­ranked Fighting Irish spent a week hearing people question their abilities after last weekend's near-upset loss to Michigan State. 
Then they went out and answered just about every one of them in a 40-7 rout of a pitiful Purdue team that committed eight turnovers Saturday at Ross-Ade Stadium. 
In a game similar to last year's 51-7 rout of Purdue, the Irish jumped out to a 34-0 
alftime lead, outgaining the Boilermakers 'H4-93, before letting their reserves get some 
arne experience in the final 30 minutes. 
"They're the most talented group I've seen ut together in a long time, maybe the best ver." said Purdue coach Fred Akers, who 111s been a head coach since 1975. "They are ~I early the number-one team in the country." 




The Game... 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 
Stanford's nickname is a Cardinal, its mas1;ot is a tree, and itg offense is one big ques­tion mark. The Cardinal (1-3) host top-ranked Notre Dame (4-0) to try to gflt back in gear before plunging back into the Pac 10 season. 
Stanford has won its only home contest thus far this sea­son, a 18-17 win ovpr Oregon, but has lost to Arizona and Oregon Stato, and a wild loss last week to San Jose State 33­
40. Stanford is so bad, accord­ing to ABC Sports, and Notre Damn so good, that the game just wasn't good enough for the network to show. • 
Irish head coach Lou lloltz, of course, isn't so suro of a Notre Dame blowout. 
"Stanford is not an easy place to play in," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "I think we'll see a very fin performance from Stanford. As for being number one, I think we're smart enough to realize we're in a vory pmcarious position." 
This is the first year at Stan­ford for lwad coach Denny Green, who took over for Jack Elway aftP-r serving as the San Francisco 49ers receivers coach. 
Stanford defense vs. Notre Dame offense 
The Cardinal has had some problems on defense this sea­son, allowing 96 points in four games, including the 40 given up against San Jose State. Stanford returned eight starters on defense, including left tackle Lester Archambeau, who has 212 total tackles in his career and has accumulated 17 quarterback sacks. Th 6-5, 260-pound senior has amasses 21 tackles in four games this year. 
"Stanford has three different football players in Archambeau, (Kevin) Scott and (Alan) Grant who might go in the first round of the professional draft," Holtz said. 
Grant, a 5-10, 187-pound, anchors the secondary and pulls double duty as a punt re­turner for Green's team. Grant has three career interceptions and has 118 tackles in three years of play. Junior Kevin Scott, a 5-11, 182-pound lightweight at cornerback, has 18 tackles this season. 
The big surprise for Stanford has been sophomore free safety Tony Trousset, who leads the team in tackles with 34, includ­ing one sack, and has one of 
Friday, October 6, 1989

IRISH EXTRA 
the team's two interceptions. 
The Irish offense returned to 
form last weekend, scoring 40 
points against Purdue after 
sputtering against Michigan 
State. The key to Notre Dame's 
offense is quarterback Tony 
Rice. 
"One thing Tony Rice always does is bring a positive attitude to the field," Holtz said. "He adds so much to our football team. I can't begin to mention it. He's an outstanding quar­terback-not a great athlete, but a great quarterback. He's just getting better and better. 
"Just to think about being without Tony Rice is rather frightening. We've never had a player play as great a role as Tony Rice." 
Rice's numbers are beginning to back him up. He is 20-2 as Notre Dame's starting quar­terback, and has hit 43-of-28 passing for the year for 513 yards. On the ground, he has rushed for 294 yards on 52 carries, scoring two touch­downs. 
But Rice doesn't do it alone. Fullback Anthony Johnson, one of the best in the country in short yardage situations, has scored five Irish touchdowns and gained 216 yards on 59 
carries. When the Irish take to the air, Raghib Ismail (11 catches, 241 yards) and Ricky Watters (six catches, 110 yards) are Rice's key targets. Tight end Derek Brown has been more involved in the of­fense of late and has five catches for 104 yards. 
Notre Dame defense 
vs. 
Stanford offense 

Green switched the Stanford 
offensive scheme from the run­
and-shoot to a pro-style set. 
"Last year they had some success against us," Holtz said. "But it's not the type of offense, it's the way people execute." 
Steve Smith and Brian John­son have split time at quarter­back, an injury to Johnson giv­ing Smith the chance to start. Smith shone in the San Jose State loss, throwing for 384 yards, most of those caught by wide receiver Ed McCaffrey. 
On the ground, Stanford is hurting, with four of its top five running backs hobbled with in­juries. 
Notre Dame's defense is led by linebacker Ned Bolcar, who has 37 tackles, three for loss, and two sacks this year. 

Photo Courtesy of Stanford Sports Information 

Running back Scott Eschelman had 20 receptions for 100 yards and 19 carries for 61 yards 

Denny Green Coach 
Formerly head coach at Northwestern, Green takes over for Jack Elway, and has lead the Cardinal to a 1-3 record so far this season. 
Walter Batson WR 
Batson is capable of springing for a big play. The 5­10, 175-pounder has scored three touchdowns in his career, including an 82-yard TO reception in 1988. 
Scott Palumbush 
DT 

The 6-4, 255-pound defe!lsive tackle has been a stronghold of the Stanford defense for three years. He has seven sacks among his 52 career tackles. 
Steve Smith QB 

All eyes are on Smith as he tries to fill in for injured quarterback Brian Johnson. Considered equal at the start of the season, the two have split the playing time. 
John Hopkins PK 
Hopkins is the leading scorer for the Cardinal this year. He is six-for-six in PATs and six­of-13 in field goals, with a long of 54 yards, this year. 



IRISH EXTRA Friday, October 6, 1989 
Horsemen defeat Stanford in final game 
-
-
.... 
-
By VIC LOMBARDI Sports Writer 
Layden, Crowley, Stuhldreher 
and Miller. 
In their final game together, the legendary "four Horsemen" of Notre Dame were victorious. They galloped a way with a 27­10 win over Stanford in the 1925 Tournament of Roses. Knutn Hockne's squad capped a perfect 1 0-0 season as the Irish won tlwir first-ever national championship. 
Time . Capsule 
One nwmber of that fabled Notn~ Danw backfield. Elmer Layden, stole tt:e show as he displayed his sensational versa­tility by contributing on both sides of tlw ball. Layden fin­ished with three touchdowns, ineluding two on interception returns. lin also handled the punting responsibilities, boolll= ing kicks 60 yards downfield. 
The other llorsmnen also contributed to the Hose Bowl victory. When running back Jim C:rowll~y wasn't scampering for yardage, hP was kicking extra points. QuartPrback Harry Stuhldn~lwr played with entire eontl~st with a broken ankle. And Don Miller-well, Don Miller was tlwre. 
Except for the final score, 
Lyght 
continued from page 1 
player, and he chose to come to 
Notre Dame over Michigan, 
Michigan State and other foot­
ball powerhouses. It was the 
combination of athletics and 
academics that sold Lyght on 
Notn~ Dame, plus Lou Holtz' 
gn~at recruiting skills. He 
hasn't regn~ttcd the choice ei­
ther in .football or in his stud­
ies. 
"Wiwn it came right down to it. I knew deep inside that Notrn Dame was the school for me, and so far it's been right," Lyght. who is enrolled in Arts and Letters, says. "And from the first day of practice, I re­member being a freshman, go­ing out playing, I knew that from day one, I could compete on the college level and be suc­cessful." 
Lyght's confidence was im­mediately put to the test after two members of the secondary, Brandy Wells and Corny Southall, both went down with knee injuries during his fresh­man year. Lyght found himself playing in all twelve games of 
-
-
!II 
-
--~ 
!II fll
-~ !" -~ r" -~ 
t" -~ -~ !" 
-
-
Ul 
0­
-~ ~. 
~ 
~. ~ ~. ~. ~ 
--~. ,.,••.. ,.,*' ~ .. 
l 
downfield to set up the game's first score-a 27-yard field goal by Murray Cuddeback. 
The second quarter featured the "Elmer Layden Show," as the skinny fullback rushed for one touchdown and returned a 78-yard interception for a sec­ond score. Layden, known as the fastest man in football, gave his team a 13-3 advantage going into the locker room. 
Midway through the third stanza, Notre Dame's Ed Hun­singer picked up a loose ball after a fumbled punt and ram­bled in for the touchdown. But the Indians struck right back as halfback Ed Walker con­nected with Ten Shipkey in the endzone to cut the Irish lead to 20-10. 
The, in the fourth quarter, Stanford was threatening from the Irish 8-inch line. But a stingy Notre Dame defense managed a memorable goalline stand and prevented the Indians from scoring. The victory was secured on the ensuing Stanford series when Layden returned his second intercep­tion for a touchdown. 
That Notre Dame team was considered by many to be the most alert squad ever to play the game. Much of its success was due to· the impeccable chemistry that the "Four Horsemen" displayed when they were on the field together. 
The Horsemen re-minded ev­eryone that football games aren't won on talent alone. They're won on strategy, wit, and, most of all, teamwork. 

~. ~ 
~. ~. ~ I ~. 
~ ~ ~ 
• • ~ 
F'-. Fl~ 
The Observer 1 File Photo 
- 
- 
- 
-~!"  - 
- 

0 
an
-
-
-
-

Pop Warner's Indians domi­nated in all the game's statis­tics. Stanford outgained the Irish in total yards, 331-192, 
and first downs, 17-7. Never­theless, the Irish capitalized on key Stanford turnovers to pull out the victory. 
"We won by playing heads up football," said Rockne. "We'd have won regardless of the breaks." 
Stanford's massive All-Amer­ican fullback-quarterback Ernie Nevers muscled his team 
AP Photo
The Four Horsemen, created by Grantland Rice, helped defeat Stanford in the Rose Bowl. 
his first season. and he liked it. 
"It was a good learning expe­rience for me, being able to play so early," Lyght says. "It has helped me mature as a ballplayer." 
Among his favorite plays from his freshman campaign are his interception in the Michigan State victory, and a blocked punt in the Pittsburgh game that sparked a comeback even though the Irish eventually lost. 
Since then, the defense has relied on Lyght for his pass de­fense skills. During the national championship season, Lyght broke up nine passes and col-Iected 36 tackles, earning Asso­ciated Press honorable mention as an All-American. Before this year began, he was rated as the best cornerback in the country by The Sporting News. 
Lyght started every game last year except the opener against Michigan. He is part of the Irish defense that has dom­inated games so far in 1989, and saved games when the of­fense has been less than per-feet. 
"1 think our defense is im­proved upon last year." Lyght 
fll
-~ 
!II
-~ 
~ 
notes. "Ail of the guys that we have now, we've played to­gether, and there is a real closeness on the team. I think that showed during the Michi­gan State game. The offense wasn't doing too well, and we just looked at each other, and said, we have enough points to win this game, let's just go out and win it." 
The defense is good, but that doesn't mean that there is no room for improvement. Lyght credits Chuck Heater, the coach of the secondary, with improv­ing his skills as a football player. And Heater says that Lyght's willingness to learn has contributed to his game. 
"He has to continue to be a consistent player. He has been a very consistent guy here in his practice habits, and it has ear­ried over into the game. He just needs to maintain the consis­tency from a practice stand­point," Heater says. 
Lyght says that he is just taking the season one game at a time. As far as his goal of getting an interception every game, he realizes it is difficult to accomplish. But in the mean­
time, he's getting a lot of free dinners from his teammates. Notre Dame's interception leader, Todd lyght. 
!II
-~ 
! u 
-~ 

f I! 
-~ t"-~ ~ 
t~
-~ r" ! ,,
!" -~ -~r" r"-~ !"-~ 
-,.,·-.. ,.,*l.. F'-.• F'-.• ­
.
........ 
t:...... 

~
• -­
Friday, October 6, 1989
IRISH EXTRA 
Terrell 
continued from page 1 
Chuck Heater, who coaches the defensive backs, explains. "We moved Pat because of a need we had at free safety. We were looking for an individual we thought would help us, and Pat is an outstanding athlete. (Defensive Coordinator) Barry Alvarez said that the first player we should consider mov­ing to defense should be Pat Terrell, and he's worked out very well." 
Terrell possesses a rare, ex­plosive combination of strength and speed which helped him make the transition quickly and painlessly. He runs the 40-yard dash in 4.35 seconds and yet is owerful enough to stand up to 
running backs who charge into the defensive backfield with a full head of steam. 
"In the beginning I thought Pat had trouble with the heavy contact on defense," admits Stan Smagala, the Irish cornerback who doubles as Terrell's roommate, "But he became very aggressive as he learned the position and devel­oped into one of the hardest hitters on the defense." 
The switch to free safety also entailed a new responsibility for Terrell. He became the sig­nal-caller for the defensive backs. shouting out coverage assignments to the corner­backs. This new duty created some problems for Pat at first. 
"Last year it was really hectic for the rest of the guys," con­cedes Terrell "Stan Smagala 
and Todd Lyght would yell like crazy for their calls, but I didn't know what to tell them. 


Pat Terrell But over the summer I had a lot of time to learn the schemes and now I know them like the back of my hand." 
Heater agrees. "Last year it was difficult for him to call the signals, but this year he has a lot more confidence. Pat does very well with the adjustments now." 
He'll have quite a few signals to call this weekend against Stanford. Since their offensive backfield has been raval!ed by 
injuries, the Cardinal will likely bombard the Irish secondary with a pass-oriented offense. Irish fans recalling earlier games against Michigan and Michigan State might worry about whether Notre Dame's pass defense is equal to the task, but Terrell would like to set their minds at ease. 
"When a team is completing passes, everybody always wants to blame the secondary," he charges, "But the fact is that we are doing pretty well. Teams are going to complete some passes. We want to make sure that if the receivers do catch a pass, they remembm where they caught the ball. " 
Terrell thinks the Irish de­fense will stay out of trouble against Stanford's aeronautic exposition. "They have a very explosive offense, and they have obviously perfected the forward pass, but we'll try to limit what they can do. Our personnel matches up well with them man for man." 
In fact, the Irish match up against Stanford much better than they did last year against Miami. But Pat Terrell would rather not think about that. 
IRISH STATS CARDINAL STATS •
o 

Watters 42 208 5.0 4 53
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP TEAM STATISTICS s OPP Taylor 17 47 2.8 0 15 
Culver 22 110 5.0 1 15 Lasley 6 38 6.3 0 12 Ismail 16 85 5.3 0 25
TOTAL OFFENSE 1573 997 TOTAL OFFENSE 1285 1247 Vardell 8 33 4.1 0 19 
Mirer 7 25 3.6 0 11
Total Plays 284 255 Total Plays 300 258 W.Batson 2 9 4.5 0 6 
Brooks 9 24 2.7 0 8
Yards per Play 5.5 3.9 Yards per Play 4.3 4.8 Walsh 1 -11 -11.0 0 ·11 
Belles 4 13 3.3 0 6
Yards per Game 393.3 249.3 Yards per Game 321.3 311.8 Johnson 16 -35 -2.2 0 10 
Eilers 3 13 4.3 0 8
PENAL TIES· YARDS 18-166 18·133 PENALTIES-YARDS 34-287 34·302 S.Smith 20 ·80 -4.0 1 11 
Mihalko 2 10 5.0 0 5
FUMBLES-LOST 7-6 12-6 FUMBLES-LOST 10-3 4·2 NO 132 229 1.7 2 27 
Graham 1 5 5.0 0 5
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 81 60 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 89 64 Opponents 157 478 3.0 5 
Setzer 5 4 0.8 0 4
By Rushing 57 25 By Rushing 24 26
Levens 3 4 1.3 0 4
By Passing 22 28 By Passing 48 32
Boyd 1 2 2.0 0 2 PASSING C A % YOS TO tNT LG
By Penalty 2 7 By Penalty 7 6
R.Griggs 1 ·2 ·2.0 0 ·2 S.Smith 58 101 .574 595 3 5 49
THIRD OOWNS-CONV. 28-56 20-59 THIRD DOWNS-CONV. 17-63 19·61
NO 227 1011 4.5 12 53 Johnson 40 67 .597 461 1 3 34 
% .500 .339 % .270 .311
Opponents 146 435 3.0 0 36 s 98 168 .5831056 4 8 49
POSSESSION TIME 130:06 108:54 POSSESSION TIME 165:23 154:37 
Opponents 52 101 .515 769 4 2 59
Per Game 32:39 27:21 PASSING C A % YOS TO tNT LG Rice 28 43 .652 513 1 2 52 SCORING TO Ru. P Rt PA FG TP Mirer 4 12 .333 41 0 1 18 Hopkins 0 0 0 0 6-6 6-13 24 
SCORING TO R P R PA FG TP Graham 1 2 .500 8 0 0 8 McCaffrey 2 0 2 0 0·0 0-0 12 RECEIVING tl:> YOS AVG TO LG Johnson 6 5 1 0 0-0 0-0 36 NO 33 57 .579 562 1 3 52 Volpe 1 1 0 0 0-0 0·0 6 
McCaffrey 20 340 17.0 2 38 Eschelman 20 100 5.0 0 34
Watters 4 4 0 0 0-0 0·0 24 Opponents 62 109 .569 562 7 8 30 Pickney 1 0 1 0 0-0 0-0 6 Hentrich 0 0 0 0 12-13 4-8 24 S.Smith 1 1 0 0 0·0 0·0 6 
Price 14 160 11.4 0 41 Ismail 2 0 0 2 0-0 0-0 12 Taylor 1 1 0 0 0-0 0·0 6 Pickney 8 113 14.1 1 34 Culver 1 1 0 0 0-0 0·0 6 RECEIVING tl:> YOS AVG TO LG Puk 1 0 0 1 0·0 0·0 6 
W.Batson 7 135 19.3 0 49 Aim 1 0 0 1 0-0 0·0 6 Ismail 11 241 21.9 0 52 Eschelman 0 0 0 0 1-1 0·0 2 
Baur 5 3 7 7.4 0 13 Rice 11000-1 0·0 6 Watters 6 110 18.3 0 32 Team 1 safety 
Taylor 4 54 13.5 1 21 Hackett 0 0 0 0 1 -2 0·0 1 Brown 5 104 20.8 0 38 s 7 3 3 1 7-7 6·13 70 
Vardell 4 28 7.0 0 11 NO 16 12 1 3 13·16 4-8 121 Johnson 5 45 9.0 1 18 Opp. 11 NA NA 7-7 7·1 0 96 Burton 4 27 6.8 0 12 Opponents 7 0 7 0 4 · 7 2·2 52 I. Smith 1 18 18.0 0 18 
Walsh 3 22 7.3 0 15 
T. Smith 1 8 8.0 0 8 Lasley 3 16 5.3 0 7 
R. Griggs 1 7 7.0 0 7 RUSHING tl:> YOS AVG TO LG Volpe 3 13 4.3 0 7 RUSHING 
t1:> YOS AVG TO LG Levens 1 4 4.0 0 4 Volpe 31 120 3.9 1 27 Booker 3 11 3.7 0 NA Rice 52 294 5.7 2 24 NO 33 562 17.0 1 52 Eschelman 19 61 3.2 0 12 s 98 1056 10.8 4 49 59 216 3.7 5 23 Opponents 62 562 9.1 7 30 Burton 12 47 3.9 0 13 Opponents 52 769 14.8 4 59
Johnson 
DEPTH CHARTS 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE STANFORD OFFENSE STAN FORD DEFENSE NOTRE DAME OFFENSE 
LT 72 Lester Archambeau 

RE 45 Devon McDonald 6·3 228 So. SE 40 Ed McCaffrey 6·6 220 ..-. 6·5 260 Sr.
SE 13 Pat Ellers 5-11 193 Sr. 85 Eric Simien 6-3 225 Fr. 80 Chris Walsh 6-1 180 So. 6-3 240 mr
91 Matt Borkowski 

83 Tony Smith 6·2 187 So. LT 93 Bob Dahl 6-5 263 d-. LT 70 BobWhmtetd 6·1 300 Fr. 6·3 245 Fr.
NT 78 Aaron Remblsz 

QT 64 Mike Brennan 6·5 260 Sr. 95 Junior Bryant 6·5 270 Fr. 55 Dan Nash 6·3 260 Jr. 6·3 245 Fr.
51 Estevan Avila 

53 Winston Sandri 6·4 275 Jr. NT 50 Chris Zorich 6·1 268 d-. LG 50 Chris Dalman 6·4 270 Fr. 6·4 255 d-.
AT 96 Scott Palmbush 

00 52 Tim Ryan 6·4 259 d-. 99 Troy Ridgley 6-4 250 So. 59 Mario Shane 6·2 265 So. 91 Matt Borkowski 6-3 240 Fr
61 Tom Gorman 6·6 265 Sr. 
LDI..B 43

AT 90 Jell Am 6-7 270 Sr. c 62 Chuck Gillingham 6·4 275 d-. Rob Hinckley 6·5 240 Sr.
c 55 Mike Heldt 6-4 265 d-. 81 Eric Jones 6·6 225 Fr. 54 Rick Pallow 6-4 245 Fr. 6-3 240 Jr.
93 Chris Hawk1ns 76 Gene McGuire 6·5 259 So. 

ULB 95

DE 37 Scott Kowalkowski 6-2 226 ..-. R:l 56 Andy Papathanasslou 6-4 265 Sr. JonoTunney 6·2 235 d-.
TG 75 Tim Gnunhard 6-3 292 Sr. 7 Andre Jones 6·4 215 Jr. 74 Glen Cavanaugh 6·5 265 Fr. 6·2 235 So
58 Tony Miccichi

74 Mirko Jurkovic 6·5 279 So. 8..8 36 Donn Grimm 6·2 231 d-. AT 68 Darran Baird 6·4 270 d-. 6·1 210 Fr.
RILB 42 DaveGamett

TT 71 Dean Brown 6·3 291 Sr. 31 Demetrius DuBose 6-2 205 Fr. 79 John Carpenter 6-5 270 So. 31 Kev1n Puk 6·2 230 Fr.
72 Joe Allen 6·4 288 Jr. M..B 47 Ned Bolcar 6-2 229 Sr. TE 87 Jim Price 6-4 240 Sr. ROLB64 Bruce Lang 6-3 225 Sr.
TE 85 Derek Brown 6-7 235 So. 
85

48 Michael Smalls 6-3 223 So. 83 Turner Baur 6·5 236 So. Vince Otoupal 6-3 225 Fr.
88 Frank Jacobs 6·5 234 Jr. (J! g Tony Rice 6·1 200 Sr. 
FCB 1 Todd Lyght 6·1 181 So. FL 4 WaHer Batson 5·10 175 d-. LC 2 Alan Grant 5·10 187 Sr. 13 Eric Thomas
21 Rod Smith 6·1 183 So. 6 Jon Pinckney 6-2 175 So 5-10 182 Jr
3 Rick Mirer 6·3 205 Fr. SCB 29 Stan Smagala 5·11 186 Sr. (J! 9 Steve Smith 6·4 220 Fr. ss 39 Rob Englehardt 6·1 195 Sr.
R8 22 Anthony Johnson 6·0 220 Sr. 19 Shawn Davis 6-0 181 So. 5 Brian Johnson 6·2 195 Jr. 46 • 6-3 205 Fr..
Jimmy Klein 

35 Ryan M1halko 6·2 234 Jr. ss 32 D"Juan Francisco 5-11 182 Sr. ttl 15 Gary Taylor 5·11 197 So. FS 7 Tony Trousset 6·2 195 So.
1B 12 Ricky Watlanl 6·2 199 d-. 5 Rodney Culver 6-0 219 So. 
26 Greg Davis 6-1 198 Jr. 23 Herbie Berry 6·3 210 Fr. 16 Seyon Albert 6·0 180 Fr. FS 15 Pat Terrell 6-0 195 Sr. RB 20 Todd Burton 6·0 210 So. 5·11 182 d-.
RC 3 Kevin Scott 

FL 25 Raghlb Ismail 5·10 175 So. 27 George Poorman 6·2 191 So. 44 Tom Vardall 6·2 220 So. 24 Tuan Van LE 6·0 185 So.
8 Steve Belles 6·4 217 Sr. 
p 11 Paul Stonehouse

p 28 Craig Hentrtch 6-1 175 Fr. PK 94 John Hopkins 6·3 185 ..-. 5·8 165 Fr.
K 18 Billy Hackett 6·1 194 d-. 
..-. 94 John Hopkins 6-3 185
16 Jim Sexton 6·0 183 It Paul Stonehouse 5·8 165 Fr. d-.
28 Craig Hentrk:h 6·1 175 Fr. 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week. The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some well-known figure in the Notre 

-~

Dame community predict the outcomes of the week's major 

,:1flfiiifiifP college football games. Hecords 


Molly Mahoney 

are compiled as to how each ~teve Megargee Greg Guffey Heather Atkinson Theresa Kelly John Niehaus Keith JacksonAssistant
-pnrson docs against the spread. In Associate Assistant SMC Sports Editor Random Student Guest Celebrity Sports Editor
other words, it isn't enough to Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor 20-22 25-17 19-2324-18
pick the winner of a given game. 25-17 23-19 22-20 .476 .595 .452.571
The person must pick the winner .595 .548 .524 Last week: Last week: Last week: 
Last Week:

and give the underdog points. Last week: Last week: Last week: 7-7 9-5 6-8
8·6

8-5 6-8 6-8 CLEMSON 11 over Virginia Tigers Cavaliers Tigers Cavaliers Tigers Cavaliers Tigers -TENNESSEE 5.5 over Georgia Bulldogs Bulldogs Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Florida St. 4 over SYRACUSE Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Orangemen Orangemen Seminoles Orangemen 
ILLINOIS 5 over Ohio State lllini lllini lllini lllini lllini lllini lllini Michigan State 5.5 over IOWA Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans USC 9.5 over Washington Huskies Huskies Trojans Trojans Trojans Huskies Trojans MIAMI 36.5 over Cincinnati Bearcats Bearcats Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes 


- Air Force 13 over NAVY MICHIGAN 34.5 over Wisconsin OREGON 4.5 over Washington St. Penn St. 4.5 over RUTGERS Alabama 7 over MISSISSIPPI  Falcons Wolverines Cougars Nittany Lions Crimson Tide  Falcons Badgers Cougars Nittany Lions Crimson Tide  Falcons Badgers Cougars Nittany Lions Crimson Tide  Falcons Badgers Cougars Nittany Lions Rebels  Falcons Badgers Cougars Nittany Lions Rebels  Falcons Wolverines Cougars Nittany Lions Crimson Tide  Falcons Wolverines Cougars Nittany Lions Crimson Tide  
W.VIRGINIA 18.5 over Virginia Tech Notre Dame 20.5 over STANFORD  Mountaineers Irish  Mountaineers Irish  Mountaineers Irish  Mountaineers Irish  Mountaineers Irish  Mountaineers Irish  Mountaineers Irish  

-
page 9 

nford mascot fans laughing 


is picture along with Tree. 
the "Tree" his freshman year, who along with the entire band decided to parade through the library one evening, Gil knew he had found his destiny. He would carve his niche at radical Stan­ford. He would be the Stanford Tree. 
After being chosen 'best wood on campus' and destroying the old Tree's uniform (a require­ment) Gil constructed his own using two mattresses, green c~t.rpeting , and felt. Says Gil, "Babes love foam and felt." What 'kind' of tree is Gil? "I am not 'any' tree," he says, "but I am the 'Anytree. 'All trees can feel angst and pathos through me." He describes himself as "the Ideal Tree, through which all other trees are mirrored." This ideal tree is a combination of "orgiastic furor, hormonal imbalance, and aerobic train­ing," which leads Gil to claim that he, "likes to germinate as often as possible." He claims he also has had to increase his intake of life-essential liquid with the rest of the band. He doesn't do chlorophyll, though, the NCAA forbids it. 
He finds his work paradoxi­cal, as he looks to establish some tradition, in a school with almost none. Their old symbol, the Indian, was dissolved in the 60s, following students protesting its racist overtones. In the following years of anar­chy. the mascot changed yearly with no clear form. The Band finally decided it would borrow the 'Palo Alto' from the Univer­sity shield, and so the Tree was born. Gil wants to make the Tree a well-known symbol of Stanford among the college cir­cuit and will use any means to do so. He plays with other mascots, like the Beavers of O.S.U., who recently chased him with a chain saw and threat­ened to 'stump' him. 
Gil says he's excited to meet with the Leprechaun and re­spects the tradition at NO. He doesn't feel animosity towards any mascot, and enjoys the fra­ternity among the mascots who, "understand symbolic ri­valry." He has had to learn a few things though, like running around with a hundred-pound suit on and playing with the children who approach him. He advises other saplings to, " "branch out into something 
bigger" and not, "pine away their existence." Gil takes no definite stand on environmental issues such as the rain forest and recycling, but he takes his position seriously as the quintessential symbol of his in­stitution. When you see him raising his limbs to the crowd on Saturday, Gil hopes you'll remember this: "Be Tree ... and I am not an asparagus." 
•
review 
POGUES 

The Pogues find 'Peace and Love' 
DAVID DESALLE 
accent writer 
"Peace and Love," the latest album by the Pogues, features bold experimentation. This is a new addition to the fine rollick­ing music, that bridges the gap between Irish folk songs and the Clash, which fans have come to expect. 
Surprisingly, Shane Mac­Gowan, who co-wrote most of their popular 1988 release, "If I Should Fall From Grace With God" with band member Jem Finer, is credited with only six of the fourteen tracks on this album. He also shares his du­ties as lead vocalist with the other seven members, who typi­cally sing in the songs they wrote themselves. MacGowan continues to distinguish himself as the band's most accom­plished songwriter and takes credit for the record's most outstanding cuts. 
"Down All The Days," may be the finest song on the album. It is one of the band's experimen­tal efforts that is truly memo­rable. It creates a mood of yearning and has a mesmeriz­ing tune. The song shows a de­parture from the Pogues' tradi­tional sound, resembling some­thing the Mighty Lemondrops might play. 
Other outstanding songs are "Boat Train," in which Mac­Gowan sings through clenched his inebriated travels. Another experimental tune is "USA," which features a psychedelic ending after verses throbbing with energy. It is the sort of song that U2 would wish they had recorded. 
A disappointing tune is "Lorelei," by guitar/mandolin player Philip Chevron. Chevron sings this ephemeral duet with Kristy MacColl, whose perfor­mance is not as impressive as in "Fairytale of New York," her duet with MacGowan on last 
year's album. Chevron has writ ten much better songs in the past. "Blue Heaven," another experimental song, is also un­successful. A skipping, jazzy melody and playful bass work for XTC, but do not produce th same result when Philip Chevron and Daryl Hunt use it for the Pogues. 
"Night Train To Lorca" is a dark, driving account of a noc­turnal train ride that banjo player Jem Finer, should be proud of. He also is to be ap­plauded for the chilling dirge, "Tombstone." 
The Pogues and their fans should be pleased with "Peace and Love." Although, some of the band's experiments are not successful, this is a fantastic album. The Pogues have main­tained their unique sound while exploring new styles. 
-
-
for exolic foods, you can off all you have eaten, in 
more of the several contests, including the and Spanish dancing. 
of each contest ·eceive a free dinner to a tlar South Bend 1urants such as the Empo­
or Macri's. If dance con­aren't for you, but you enjoy dancing, a OJ will be playing both cultural and popu­lar music throughout the night. 
The Taste of Nations has brought a wide variety of appe­tizing cultural foods to Notre Dame in the past, and this year the event promises to be as spectacular as previous years. A walk to South Dining Hall before, in between, or after parties, will be a worthwhile and fun trip to make. 

What better way to satisfy those late night hunger attacks than by attending a festival dedicated to food? An SYR is no reason to miss this spectac­ular event. In fact it might be a great way to begin or end an evening with your date. 
page 10 The Observer Friday, October 6, 1989 
Birthday gripes: censorship and nonsmokers 
I'm about to offend many good people whose good will and respect I would appreciate having. That makes me sad, be­cause it's the eve of my birthday and I'll need all the friends I can get as I crawl down the fi-
Letters to a Lonely God 
like a wimp. 
In my opinion, " The Last Temptation of Christ" is far less offensive than the alleged message of Medjugorje. Medju­dorje is based on a totally 

nat stretch to my grave. 
Dylan Thomas' great impera­tive was, "Do not go gentle into that good night/Old age should burn and rave at close of day;/Rage, rage against the dying of the light./DO NOT GO GENTLE INTO THAT GOOD NIGHT!" 
I'm not that close to the ever­lasting nap, not by a long chalk, but as a dress rehearsal for my exit speech -still many years away, I trust-when I may be ranting and raving like King Lear, I want you to know I've been bristling with bad temper over the things I read in The Observer. 
I think "The Last Temptation of Christ" is one of the least deeply offensive movies that Hollywood has made about Christ. He's one of the great ligures of world literature, for heaven's sake. Do churches, Catholic or Protestant, have a copyright on the way the world should be allowed to imagine or understand Him? 
You should have seen the production that's known in the trade as, "I Was The Teenage Jesus," which brought snickers from the reviewer in Time for showing the Lord on the cross with carefully shaved armpits. fixing Him up to resemble the picture on a holy card can be more deadly than satire. Holly­wood doesn't do Christianity's founder any favor when they sentimentalize Him into looking cynically trashes the Covenant of Grace, no matter how charmed the pilgrims are when they meet those adorable Yu­gosiav moppets, who, for all I know, should have been audi­tioned to play the children in "The Sound of Music." But, that's what last week's outrage was about. 
This week I'm ready to pound the pavement into a quagmire over a subversive statement which appeared on the front page of last Monday's Observer, "Being able to smoke is not a right, but having a smoke-free environment is." 
Millions of Americans feel they have a God-given right to smoke, just as millions of Frenchmen feel they have a God-given right to make love. Frenchmen in Paris, they say, reserve the right to smoke when they make love, or to make love when they smoke, which ever excites them the most. 
Smoking first became patri­otic in 1917, when the American Red Cross started showing up at the ports of embarkation, to hand out fags to the "boys" who were going to fight "over there." 
On one hand Surgeon-General Koop wants America to go smokeless. On the other hand, he favors handing condoms to our kids at about the age they are weaned, which goes to show that one man's meat is 

Fresh lngred1ents No Mass Productions 
272-6702 
Chinese, Vietnamese and American Food 
fi.)29 ['lli\{'t~ill (OilllllOil' '>oulll lkllCI I" 
If you think Mike Ferguson will be embarrassed by this photo... 
-
-
I
I. 
I I I I 
Mike: Have a great sophomore year!
I 
I 

another man's poison. 

Does the fresh-air fiend quoted in the press realize that having rights is a two-way street? As a smoker, I d_irty the air in the room where I live, but I don't have a car license or know how to drive, and I don't own a car, which could dirty the air much more lethally than my cigarettes do. If I promise not to smoke, will the non­smoker promise not to drive a car to places on and off-cam­pus, which he could walk to, as I do, poisoning the quads with fumes that my dog and I must breathe in, if we leave the win­dows open? If protecting the environment is the name of the game, shouldn't I have the right to insist that hundreds of stu­dents leave their cars in the parking lots, instead of using them for anything as unneces­sary as a beer-run? 
Remember the mutual for­bearance we had to practice as children, when each of us felt possessive and protective of his or her favorite toys? To keep peace among the siblings, our parents told us, "Brother won't touch Sister's doll, if Sister promises to keep her cotton­pickin' hands off Brother's red fire truck." 
Maybe the Christian adults at Notre Dame should practice the golden rule from the romper room. I will not question your rights as a driver, unless you start insisting that my rights as a smoker don't exist. 
The trouble is that drivers, imagining themselves to be in the catbird seat, don't feel obliged to reach compromises with the much-harassed nico­tine addicts. Where do drivers think the smog comes from that is choking our cities to death? 

If smokers alone were re­sponsible for stinking up the planet, I would freely admit that though I'm one of them, smokers deserved to be hanged. But, everyone contributes to the pollution that will kill us all. 
Next to cars, industry is the greatest offender, defiling the lakes, the rivers, the earth we walk on and the heavens over our heads. Planes sicken the sky where the birds used to fly and the government is com­mandeering dumps in the sea, where they can unload the atomic waste which will eventu­ally make the fish radioactive. 
In South Bend, we're treated 
to the nauseating stench of the 
Ethanol plant. I can get sick to 
my stomach when I stand close 
to people who don't wash, or to 
some who do, if they use Right 
Guard. I can get sick dancing 
with a lady doused with scents 
from the cosmetics counter at 
Harrod's in London. No woman 
has the "right" to pour all the 
perfumes of Arabia on one little 
hand, to make herself more 
fragrant than a garbage truck. 
When I go to old tenements to make sick calls during summer, I sometimes get sick from the odors that hang in the hall­ways, from the cabbage that was cooked yesterday or a week ago, or from the rotting mice that died in the wall. Maybe it's poverty I smell, or the unsavory consciences of the slum landlords who charge high rents on these fleabag, flop-house, fire traps, but who gets in a sweat to put them out of business? 
I can get sick from the ex­cessive amount of incense that priests use at Mass, and who hasn't gotten sick from the odors left in restrooms by users who don't bother to flush after they've used the john? 
Of all the crime that goes on in cities like New York and San Francisco-drug sales, mug­gings, gambling, prostitution, child abuse, pornography, rapes-the only law that can be strictly enforced is the one that makes smoking a crime. So now the cops feel free to push smokers around, to put them in jail in place of the heavies to whom threats of law and order can't nail. 
Do the police, waiting at air­ports to arrest the scofflaw who lit up in the lavatory, think they're making the friendly skies friendlier or safer from equipment failure, hijacking, terrorism or pilot error? These are the horrors the flight at­tendants should try to save us from, instead of hassling the frightened passenger who has a nicotine fit because the aircraft has blundered into potholes on the skyway. 
Listen, prayer partner. I'll do my best not to foul your per­sonal space, ruin your health or marry your sister. I'll be happy to stay out of your way when I enjoy cigarettes. But, don't get any ideas that as a smoker, I don't have a leg to stand on, or 
you should see the one on the bear skin rug 
Love, the whole family. 
that my right to smoke is a 

freedom you can deprive me of. 
America, the beautiful, is my 
home too, and I'm not a sec­
ond-class citizen, whom you 
can treat like poor-white trash 
that should hide in a swamp. 
Actually, whether you like it 
or not, you're in debt to the 
smokers. The exorbitant ci­
garette taxes we're charged 

pay quite a few of the country's 
bills. 
All the wars in this century 
have been fought by smokers. 

We could have lost either of the 
world wars if the doughboys 
and G.l. Joes hadn't had their 
butts to fall back on. If smok­

ing should go out of style, we'd 
have to reinvent the habit when 
war comes again. 

Millions of Americans smoke, 
millions more survive on tran­

quilizers, after giving up smok­
ing. Do you think Ike's army 

could have stormed the beaches 
in Normandy if the troops had 

been relying on Librium, instead 
of Lucky Strikes, as a crutch? 
I know bloody well that 
smoking is a health hazard. 
When I was hospitalized with a 
heart condition two years ago, 
my doctor said, "Half your 
trouble is caused by ci­
garettes." Earlier, he warned 
me how smoking afflicts the 

lungs, which can keep on work­
ing until they're 70 percent 
ineffective. "After that," he 
said, " you'll find yourself in 
trouble." 

I know the risks, so spare me 
the lectures. I also know that 
life itself is a succession of 
tradeoffs. Cigarettes have 

helped me make a friend out of 
loneliness. I don't feel alone as 

long as I can smoke. To give up 
smoking is like losing my best 
friend whom I miss every 
minute. 
I don't recruit smokers or 
draft friends to share my folly, 

with the exception, of course, of 
my dog, Darby O'Gill, whom I 

worry about. It's a solitary vice 
which helps me hold all the 
other vices in check. Most vices 
seem to be socially acceptable 

today, if you only practice them 
in the company of other con­
senting adults. 

Am I not entitled to this single 
vice, for which I do not need a 
partner, though smoking 

creates a bond like a sacrament 
when I'm doing it with a 
friend? "Not," you say, "if it 
puts others at risk." Do I have 
a right to expect those others 
to give up the vices that put me 
at risk, as happens when they 
get drunk and throw up on my 
shoes? I wouldn't, for the 
world, be such a churl as to 
treat another person like a 
leper, even if he was so leprous 
that I could see his fingernails 
falling into the ginger ale. If 
anyone wants to treat me like a 
leper because I smoke, I say 
forgivingly, "Prayer partner, be 
my guest, if that is what you 
must do to survive." 
Greater love for a vice no man has than this, that he should give up his life for a smoke. I know that's a sin, but maybe, with the help of God's grace, I'll be able to give up smoking someday, before I have one foot too deep down in the grave. But, it's my choice, not yours. Rather, than to ac­cept the intolerance of non­smokers as the jig I'm obliged to dance to, I'll build me a cabin on the tip of a mountain at the top of the world, where I can smoke in peace as I make my last stand. 
If a man isn't faithful to his vices, he's not apt to be faithful to much else. Has anyone told that to the visionaries at Med­jugorje? 

-T-he_O_b_s-erv_e_r_____ -----~------pag:1~ 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;:~::::::::::::::::::::T;h;e;O;b;s;e~::er;a;c;ce;p;ts::cl;as;s;ifi;e;ds::e;ve;~::b;us;in;e;s;s;d;ay;f;ro;m::10::a.;m;.;to;3;:;30;p:.:m:.:at:t:he:-I
•t•eds 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune; and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Ma~·s office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be I 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. I
CIa 5 SI I 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
L.,___No_T_IC_E_s___.l PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS  I WANTED ***NEEDED*** A RIDE TO MID.­EAST. PA AFTER THE USC GAME. WILL PAY. CALL STEVE  HP-41CX Handheld expandable Computer/Calculator Practically unused. Lists for $250, only $100 or best offer. Call x3744  DESIRE: 2 GA'S And 1 STUD. TX to ANY HOME GAME . PLEASE CALL MICHELLE at X 2922.  NEED USC AND MIAMI GA'S WILL GIVE BLANK CHECK! !I !I!! CALL JEFF AT 1505. $$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED PITI GA'S AND  Needed: 2USC GA's will pay call Erin x4541 I will trade USC stud. ticket for USC GA. I also have a PITI stud. ticket 4 SALE. Call Kevin x3216.  
WE BUY AND SELL USED  X1723  NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL BUY  STUDENT TIX.  
TEXTBOOKS !!!!!!!!!!I!!!!!!  OR TRADE 2 SMU GA'S + $$.  CALL CHRIS AT 283-4220.  Need Two GA's to NAVY.  
TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 684-8793 TYPING term papers/reports/ letters/resumes. Pick up & delive~ available. 277-5134 10am-8pm.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Desperately need 2 SMU GA's call Sven at 1 770 Mega buck guaranteed II! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  TICKETS Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Mi­ami. Premium price paid. Immedi­ate case available. Will trade for all  CALL DIANE X3477. HELP! Need 2-4 GA Tickets to the USC game. Will pay good price. Call collect (612) 929-5405. NEED 2 USC tickets Call 502-354­8826 collect.  Parents are coming from Montana. Need 2 USC GA's desperate­ly. $$$$$$Will pay big $$$$$$$$ Call Suzanne, 277-9791  Call Jim 234-3656. I need one good NAVY GA In a really big way And you wouldn't believe What I'm willing to pay call $colt x 1 635  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 WORD PROCESSING. Low rates. Next day se~ice. Free spell checking. 277-6091  ENTREPRENEURS WANTED. Earn $5,000-$15,000 in a summer management position and gain val­uable business experience. Triple "A" Student Painters. Call Scott Ruhl317-362-4234.  major sporting events including Fi­nal 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. Need two SMU tix please call 284­4930!!!!!!!!!!  1 or 2 ND/USC tickets wanted. Call Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 nights NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PITI GAME! CALL VANESSA AT X4933.$$$$  NEED DESPERATELY TWO USC­NO TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR ($$$) CALL FRANK 1M­MEDIATELY !!! DAY-(412) 658-2000 EVENING-(412) 654-6176. NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NOTRE  Help: I need 2 I 4 PENN State GA's PLEA$E call Pete X1716 PLEASE SELL ME YOUR USC  
Typing. Term papers, resur1es, etc. on IBM PC. Call Sue's Secretarial se~ice at 299-0063. TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. This Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vigil at 12:15 p.m. Every Friday Anti-Apartheid Net­work vigils at 12:15 p.m. Admim. building  Experienced keyboard player for Notre Dame Hockey Games. Call239-5050 or 5227. HELP!! NEED RIDE TO MASS./ BOSTON AREA FOR OCT. BREAK WILL SHARE $$.CALL LIZ AT Xt293 NJ bound for Oct. break? I NEED A RIDE!!! Will share$$$. Call Angi at X1280.  I NEED HELP. 3 GA and 2 Student tickets needed for the USC game. Call John at 2005 if you can help. WANT TO TRADE (2) PURDUE OR (2) AF FOR PENN STATE, USC OR PITI TICKETS. 717-339­3901. NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVY!!!!I PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 !!!  NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME ---CALL PAUL X3406 I NEED ST. TICKS FOR PITI -----PAUL X3406----­NEED NAVY GA'S CALL 271-9830 NEED 8 USC TIX CALL 2207  DAME/USC GAME. PLEASE CALL COLLECT 619/565-8303. ASK FOR LARRY CORRIGAN. PITI or USC GAs needed desparately. Please call Mike at #2288. Help! Need 3 GA tickets to Pitt game. 317-743-7208. Need TIXX to any home football game.Big $$$.Call John X1583  STUD TIX-NEED TWO.HAVE PITI TIX TO SELL. CALL 2612!!!!!!1!!! I need two student tickets to the USC game. Call Martha at x1331. !!Help!! I need 2 USC and 1 Pitt Stud or GA!!! Please call Julie X4931  
AD&D player with experience seeks party to join. Call George at x1782. 1-V Christian Fellowship Meeting When: 7 pm; Fri. Oct. 6 Where: # 6, O'Hara-Grace Apt. ? Call Jim at 271-0456  FREE PITI STU. TICKET to anyone who can give me a ride to Pittsburgh, Clev.,or Morgan­town, WV before USC. May help some expenses. Scott xt083 MADAMA BUTIERFLY  PLEASE HELP!! I desperately need an SMU student of GA ticket!! Thanks! Johanna at # 4456 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need SMU and NAVY GA's: Call Jim at 287-9854  Dad will disown me if I don't get 2 PITI GA's.Call Mike 232-4208 NEED USC GA'S WILL PAY $150 FOR PAIR MIKE X2451 OR X2473  TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S 312-920-9350 I NEED USC, MIAMI, & ALL HOME GAME TIX 272-6306  I need GA tixs for all home games Esp. for USC $$ 284-5227 Patty NEED TWO GA'S FOR PITI CALL HEIDI 287-8133 HELP!!! I NEED 2 USC GA'S WILL PAY$$ ANITA 4975  
I LOST/FOUND I LOST: MINOLTA FREEDOM ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, NOT PAID FOR, VERY, VERY VALUABLE!!! CALL PETE AT #1863 ANYTIME! $100.00  Need ticket for Saturday oct.? at S.Ma~·s. Will pay $$ 283-2746 leave message Help Wanted: Small S.B. book pub­lisher seeks part-time assistant. Call afternoons 232-3134. **** CASH TODAY ****for USC ,PITI tix stu or ga -Mark 271-5691.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks.  BIG BUCKS PAID FOR ANY HOME GA'S CALL PETE AT 277-7582 BIG BUCKS PAID FOR ANY HOME GA'S  Desperately need 2 USC GAs, Will pay $$$ Call Sean X4332 NEED up to 6 USC GAs. $ no problem. Jim x1236 I NEED FOOTBALL TIX WILL­ING TO PAY BIG BUCKS FOR ANY GAME PAT  NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STUD TIX TO usc $3526 NEED 2 PITI GAs. Have Navy and SMU GAs to trade, or will pay $$$ Call Kevin 277-7167  
REWARD.  CALL PETE  X4289  I need one USC stud. I have mu­ 
NEWS FLASH: Synth programmer I airhead has misplaced a tan plastic box of 3.5" floppies containing 3 disks: 2 blank and 1 lab led "Synth Disk". holding important documents. Would ap­preciate its immediate return. If found, please call Weazel at #4665.  FOR RENT 2 BDRM HOME 2 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.272-6306 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  SO. CAL-NEED 6 TIC'S HAVE 2 PITI, NAVY, SO. METH WILL TRADE CALL 215-642-2765 Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653 BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS  AT 277-7582 NEED 2 PITI GAs CALL x1662 WILL TRADE CORBY'S SHIRTS, HATS AND/OR CASH FOR MIAMI TIX. 272-3890.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 USC GA'S PLEASE CALL BETH X2722 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Have 2 USC Std Tckts and$$ to trade for 4 NAVY GA's. Call277­9869.  cho dinero. Please call Heather at #3765. Have PITI & SMU tickets!!! Need USC-Will trade and pay $$$ Kay-1333.  
LOST -Black wallet in NDH middle line on Sunday, Oct 1 I'd just like the wallet back, even if you keep the $. Call Bill Picht at 1436 or drop it by 711 Flanner or Lost and Found  FOR SALE COLOR TV RENTALS 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR FREE DELIVERY  I NEED 10. STUDENT or GA Call FRANK 287-5320 NEED 2 GA'S & 2 STUDS FOR USC! NICOLE X2818 NEED 6 USC GA'S! PLEASE CALL x4933  I have package( SUB) for 1 to Miami game Thanksg. 4 nights on beach, airfare, ticket-$435. Call NATE at X2075 Need 2 SMU GA's.Call Sue x4702  NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY I need 5 G.A.'s or anything you have together NAME YOUR PRICE!!!! Call Kyle-#3775  Can I please have 2 GA's and 1 stu­dent ticket for the USC football game and 4 student tickets for the Pittsburgh one? I'm Tom and my phone number is 1128. Thank you. ***HELP THE NEEDY*** I need 2 S.M.U. G.A.'s  
COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272-5959  Need 4 Miami Ga's, and/or USC stud tix. Mike x2093.  # 4364 Kevin H.  
LOST: small black leather keychain pouch. Zipper compartment con­tains Washington State Drivers Li­cesnse. Marquette University ID & Nautilus Membership card. Also room & mail key. Please call Katie, x3351.  OVATION" COUNTRY ART­IST",ELEC. HOOK-UP 255-3355 One way ticket, SB to ALBANY NY leaving Fri. 10/14 FOR SALE CHEAP Call x3442.  I NEED LOTS OF USC STUD TIX!!! Call Hales at 3640 NEED GAS FOR PITI, NAVY & SMU $$$$ CALL TOM & MARTY X 3185  HELP!!!!!! NEED 1 USC STUD TICKET CALL KEVIN 288-3032 I need 2 tickets to Air Force! Please call Kathy at 2636  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS CALL MATI AT 1961 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 2 USC GA's FOR SALE + HOTEL ROOM USC WEEKEND! BEST OFFER. x1335  Need 2 Tix For Air Force w/tradeUSC or PITI Stud Tix Call John x3779 After 11 PM I NEED 2 USC TIX MAC X4251  
LOST: keys on brass Wimbleton key chain with blue rubber NDDD on it. Ve~ important!! Call Katie x3351.  3 dining room chairs $tOea Mark or Kitty 289-2011 4-8pm  WANTED: 2 STD & 4 GA FOR USC GAME WILL TOP ANY OF­FER BIG BUCKS $$$ CALL BRIAN *1026 ANYTIME  I'M IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 USC GA TICKETS! $$$ PLEASE CALL ME ASAP! JENNY 2922  NEED USC GA'S OR STUD TIX CALL KIM 2971  I NEED TO TRADE 4 SMU OR 2 PITI GA'S FOR AS MANY USC GA'S AS POSSIBLE PLEASE CALL 284 5022.  
NO PRICE TOO HIGH !!!!!!I!  NEED 2SMU GA  
Lost: Black Aiwa Walkman w/ tape inside. If found call Joe @3804 Reward!! Reward!! Reward!! LOST: BLUE ND ID POUCH. Contains: ID, license, detex, and keys attached. Please call: BREN­DA at x4272 or return to: 331 Farley. Reward! Found-Timex watch, black band, ladies, at Senior Bar on 9/29. Call #3467, Doug to claim  Have 2 PITI stud. tix call X 1306 AMPLIFIER-EV SPKRS, 300 WT. HEAD, HSA CABINET, HORN. GREAT CONDITION. $250. CALL 277-8475. Microwave Oven Rentals 1.5 cubic foot $75 now til May Collegiate Rentals 272-5959 SONY port CD car/home use: $100; JVC auto rev port stereo: $100; TEAC Dolby C tape deck: $75 <Call Mark at 271-0672>.  WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PITI OR SMU. 800-323-7687. I NEED 2 USC GA'S FOR FA­THER. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. RON 1723. NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 I am Rob. I need four GA's for the Navy game and you've got them. Call #1804 and I'll buy them.  will pay $ or TRADE 1 USC stud call joe 2647 Need 4 stud tix/ G.A.'s for the USC game. Willing to pay big $$. If you can help me call Vovo at 277-3276. I have 2 NAVY GAs I need 2 SMU GAs Let's swap --Call Mickey x 1689 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 USC GA'S CALL BETH 283-2722 PLEASE!!!!!!! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  $$usc$$ I NEED YOU, YOU NEED ME !! I've PITI Tix, You've 3 USC GA's Let's DEAL some$$$ Flow!!! Call Matt x1304 TRADE: 2 Senior tix (sec. 29) for any two GA's for USC-call Pete X1699 NEEDED: 1 USC STUD TICKET CALL CHESTER x1861 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 1 GA FOR USC WILL PAY$$$$$$ CALL PAT AT 283-1875 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  HELP!! I AM IN NEED OF 1 USC AND 1 PITI, GA OR STUD TIX. I .WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!!! CALL MIKE AT X2002 Mom and Dad are kind of weird. Even after seeing the boring Pur­due game, they rarin' to see more ND football. Help them out. They'll buy any two G.A.s for any home game. Call #3714 and leave a message. HELP!! I need SMU GA's, PLEASE Todd x4358  - 
LOST: A REWARD IS OFFERED TO ANYONE WHO FOUND MY HEWLETI-PACKARD CALCULA­TOR (MAYBE IN NSH). THIS WAS A GRADUATION PRESENT AND I NEED IT FOR BOTH CLASSES AND SENTIMENTAL REASONS. PLEASE CALL COLLEEN X2634. I CAN IDENTIFY IT.  DENVER! DENVER! DENVER! For Sale: Round trip tic from SOUTH BEND to DENVER. Leave OCT. 20 P.M. A True Bargain! Call284-5010.  It is impossible to be in more dire need of USC tickets. We need a couple students and plenty-o-GA's. Call #1804. (Adam, Pat, Bri, or Rob) One Pitt student ticket. The word is "cheap." Call Brian at #1804  SMU GAs and Student tix I need em. Call 283-2077. I HAVE 2 TIXS FOR ANY HOME GAME KATIE 5336 I WANT TO TRADE A PITI TICK­ET OR MY ROOMMATE FOR A  ARE YOU LEAVING EARLY FOR BREAK? LET ME BUY YOUR USC STUDENT TICKET!!!! CALL PAT AT 1875. I NEED JUST ONE U.S.C. GA-­call John at x3501.  I need USC tickets. If you have any to sell, call x.1692. Bust the Tro­jans. NEED 2 or 4 Pitt GA's Call Eric x1008 NEED 2 USC GA'S MIKE x3501  - 
MACE  Wanted: 4 USC STUD TIX WILL  USC TICKET ............. CALL ME AT  
MY BROWN LEATHER JACKET AND DUKE SWEATSHIRT WERE TAKEN FROM THE ROCK­NE BUILDING ON 10/5 BETWEEN 2 AND 3 O'CLOCK. THEY HAVE MUCH PERSONAL VALUE TO ME-PLEASE RE­TURN, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. REWARD GIVEN. CINDY, 220 KNOTI, #4928.  PROTECT YOURSELF 4" purse size w/clip $9 local retail your price $7 limited supply call now 234-0515 HELP!! I HAVE BRAND NEW FUNAI VCR W/REM FOR SALE PAID $300 ON 9/20 -ASKING $265 OR BEST OFFER INCL. 2YR WAR &2 CLEANINGS CALL 1850  PAY CASH CALL BOB x1747 Wanted: 4 USC STUD TIX WILL PAY CASH CALL BOB x1747 Rich Alumni from Golden State need Tix for The USC game Call Sean x4327  3385 FOR SALE 50-YD USC & PITI TCKTS! GOES TO BEST OFFER. CALL KATHLEEN X1918 I need 3 SMU GA's and 4 MIAMI TIX. Call Don x2335 I need 3 USC Tix Call Dan X1417  I need 3 tickets UNDvs PITI Reasonable $$ Call K. Sher~ 232-2051 NEED 6 SMU GA'S TIM 271-8795 I need USC, PITI, & NAVY GA's. Please call Colin at x1930.  CALIFORNIA DREAM IN: 4 GA tix for ND-USC. Top$ and Free Din­ners 4U. 233-9337 Days, 289-9823 Nights. HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED TWO USC TICKETS (STUDENT OR GA) BIG BUCKS! CALL LIESL #2791 see CLASS I page 12  


------~--­
page 12 The Observer 
SPRING BREAK SAILING BAHAMAS 321-2 Top Ten Phone 4511 Cap1ained Yachts. Groups of Messages 
Eight. Seven Days Barefoot in the 10. "Speak" Bahamas. $445.00pp All 9. "Party Marti and the Bacardi's" 
Class PERSONALS Women's soccer tries 
OH, AND NANC,
continued from page 11 Accommodations & Meals 8. "John's House of Hair'' 
I LOVE YOU! 
SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE 7. "Yysrn" BIG 1-800-999-7245 6. "Hi, wanna go to my SYR?" 
to continue win streak 
TAKE THE PLUNGE!!!!
BUCKS! CALL LIESL #2791 -------------------------------------5. "Tim's House of Women­
·························· 
STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE 
3 sets of student tickets for sale; If 
interested contact Bart at 234-4422 or Blanca at 232-3330 
I need 2 USC GA's. 
Call Todd x-1717. 
2 PITT STUDS FOR SALE. 
BEST OFFER BY FRI 7PM 
LEAVE MESSAGE X4897 
----------------------------·-------­
NEED 1 usc & 1 pm GA CALL 
1655 OR 4224 
WANTED: 1 USC STUDENT TIC 
BUCKS to get as many of them as possible. Call1527 ASAP. 
TRADE 2 GA USC TIX FOR 2 PITT GA TIX. CALL 239-7545 DAYTIME, OR 277-1359 EVE. 
I NEED PITT, SMU GA'S PLEASEII #2819 
Life's a bowl of cherry PITTS­PITTS?-PITTS? I need 2 Pitt GA'sll Will pay big $$$ Joyx4857 
NEED PIT TIX STUDENT &GA'S BRIAN X1521 
I need 2 USC GA's. Call Todd x-1717. 
Urban Plunge applications due 
OCTOBER 13TH 
################### 
!!!!!EGNULP EHT EKAT 
II/\A/\A/1./\/I.MII.I\/1.11.11/1./1.11/\/1./\/\ 
--------Just Do 11---······--­
Going to MIAMI of OHIO? 1 need a ride there the wknd. of Oct. 14. Will help with $. Call Sarah at #3484. 
Good evening ladies, step right up, step right upI It's time to taint the love loft; new sheets are in place as of the 29th. Wouldn't you love to be the first person in the section to enjoy lhe experience?!? You know you 
would!! Take a ride with the Cruise 
WILL TRADE FOR PITT STUD OR Director--he can do the -less dance, 
$$CALL ERIC 1803 the one, the o~~G.. 
---··--------------------········--·-SPALD NEED GA'SSFAOTR USC AND PITT. ·EXCUSE-ME~:-.~~;~-~;,-~~~. CALL CHRI X1067 
Are you busy for the next fifty 
? 1 h 
1
years. ope not. need a date. Show my brother from Thanks for taking care of me Philly Northwestern what football is Phil, I hope I can return the favor, really like. Sell me your NAVY Love, ticket. Call Martin at 3343. Molly MARK!!!! to our handsome bowling babe with the nice tight a--Good luck on all your exams this week. From all your lovers. P.S. Get a date!! 
IMPORTANT I SENIOR BOAT CRUISE --BUSES WILL LEAVE AT 8 SHARP-GOT IT! 
NOT 7 AS POSTED, BUT 8:00PM. ---------------------------------·-·­Help I Need 4 tix to any game pre!: USC Call Betsy x2894 
-~PIG-LE~-------------------------­
PLEASE GET WELL SOON ·MIKE-
Drummer and Keyboardist looking to form a quality rock band 
Call Tom 3213 or Kevin 3216 
SENIORS.........................SENIORS 
• MANDATORY" 
SENIOR CLASS TRIP MEETING for all those going to Cancun. 
which woobie yoobie?" 
4. "State your business" 
3. "Does he know you?" 
2. "Kimona who?" 
1. "Hello" 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Thomas Swartz Professor of Economics College fellow responds to "Does America Have a Place in the International Marketplace?" 
Thursday, Oct. 5 • 
7:00p.m. 
All are invited. 

Come and See! Friday 6th at 9:00 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11 THE BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND From 6:30 to 7:30 in THEODORES in the basement of Grace hall!ll 
------------------------------------­ -the UNDERGROUND­ 
WILLING TO TRADE  
usc TIX  
FOR KNOTT HALL  
SYRTIX  see CLASS I page 5  
------------------------·-----------­ 

Your NAVY GAs, give them to mel Or, at least sell them. I'll pay BIG 
~ ~~
1--------------------------, 
N!·)r(.~
·:f·.,./'
•· ~ 
~· 
FREE TANNING 
with every Purchase! 
FOR AVERY UMITED nMEI 
(WITH THIS AD) 
FOR DETAILS ... 
stop in to see our salon, or call us at ... 272-7653 
lik 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team looks to build its winning streak as it continues its 13-game winnings homestand this weekend. 
The Irish, S-6, will play host to the Redskins of Miami (Ohio) on Friday at 1 p.m. As the new week rolls in, Notre Dame will play Tri-State on Tuesday at 7:30p.m. 
Notre Dame built a three-game winning streak during last week's action. The first victory came against Lake Forest on Tuesday, Sept. 26 by a score of 3-2. The Irish fell behind in that game but came on strong as Susie Zilvitis and Joy Sisolak scored their first goals of the season. Bernie Holland added the winner. 
The Irish defeated Indiana 4­1 three days after the Lake Forest game. Zilvitis scored an unassisted goal in the win over the Hoosiers, and K.T. Sullivan added her fifth goal of the sea­son on an assist from Zilvitis. 
Notre  Dame  downed  
Michigan  4-3  last  Sunday.  
Marianne  Giolitto  scored  the  
first  goal  for  the  Irish,  with  

Sullivan, Sisolak and Margaret Jarc rounding out the scorin!. 
QUEEN OF PEACE MINISTRIES 
------------------~ 
MEDJUGORJE PRAYER MEETING 
FATIMA RETREAT CENTER every SUNDAY EVENING! Medjugorje introductory session 7:00P.M. to 7:30P.M. Medjugorje Prayer Meeting ......... 7:30 P.M. to 9:00P.M. 
"If I wasn't a Pope, I'd be in Medjugorje alreadyr 
-John Paul II 

John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative 
New Memberships or Transfers 
!ll\11011 · lliO\AiiA 

Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 

AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB
MOTOR 

5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 
._____Please ask for John O'Malley • 
THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK {NEW YORK) 
will be recruiting on campus November 2, 1989 for Corporate Controller's and Treasury's Entry Development Program. We are seeking candidates who are highly motivated and possess strong analytical, interpersonal and communication skills. 
The Controller's program is designed to provide participants with exposure to various units, e.g. Financial Accounting, Management Accounting, Taxes, etc. The program consists of on job training and supplemental presentations which will focus on developing technical and managerial skills. A degree in Accounting or Finance is required. 
The Treasury Program concentrates on developing participants in the areas of Risk Management and the trading of Financial Instruments (short-term, medium-term, multi-currency risk groups). A degree in Finance or Economics is required. Knowledge of computer fundamentals is a plus, as is foreign language capability in Spanish or Japanese for available overseas assignments. 
--
If you are interested in interviewing with us, please sign up at the Career and Placement Service Office, Hesburgh Library. 

-----~­
Friday, October 6, 1989 The Observer page 13 National Catholic Cross 
Country Championship on Sept. 29 at Notre Dame. 
Irish Surprise! Mets stick with Johnson 
continued from page 16 
Sophomore Lucy Nusrala led 
"We have our work cut out the Irish in the National Despite team's subpar season, manager won't be fired for us. Every person must be Catholics with a time of 19:14, 
running very well," he said. Team captain Wendy Murray echoed Connelly's comments. 
"Our main goal is to run ag­gressively from the start and to run together as a pact," said Murray. "We hope to have all our runners finish in the top third with everyone under twenty minutes." 
The Irish achieved their goal last week, placing fifth in the 
Zllhe JIDlole :Mole 
FOR GIFTS THAT EXPRESS YOUR TASTE 
--~------------------­
Art GI<W Br<W 
Crystal D«on~tivt A ccusoriu D«oys Dolls Kaltidoscopa Music Boxes Prinu & UthotrtJphs P-ithU 
Silk Flowtn Swarovs/c/ Crystal 
Free OiftwnppinJ.•.•• We Ship Anywhere .•••• VISA, Ill S. Niles, Downtown South Bend Monday -Saturday 10:00 • 9:00 
Don't miss this golden opportunity to save on aBalfour College Class Ring! • $300FF10K • $500FF14K • $700FF18K Hurry! Offered for a limited time only! 
L-----~~~~~==~~~
Brtng tor your Discount See your Balfour Representative During October Senior Dads weekend, October 7,11-2 p.m. Monday, October 16,11-4:30 p.m. Monday October 30,11-4:30 p.m. In the Haggar College Center Game Room 
good for 15th place. 
Connelly said that Nusrala has the potential of breaking into the top 10 at today's meet. 
"Lucy ran extremely well last week for the first 1 1/2 miles and then slowed her pace for the last part," he said. "She'll have to be more aggressive over the second part of the race in order to do well in our Invitational. 
CRABTREE--& EVELYN 
'""""""
&Nips • LAtions 
Slulmpoos • Potpourri Gourmtt Footh & Candies 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Davey Johnson kept his job after all Thursday when the New York Mets an­nounced that he will return for a seventh season as manager. 
The announcement came two days after sources told The Associated Press that the Mets had decided to fire Johnson and three days after the manager himself told The New York Times that he was convinced he would be fired. 
In a statement released in New York and at the National League playoffs in Chicago, the Mets said: "In an effort to dis­pel rumors and responses to the contrary, general manager Frank Cashen of the New York Mets today announced that the club plans to have Davey Johnson return to manage the team next season. Johnson has 
USED 

GOLF CLUB SALE $2.00 PER CLUB NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL THRQUGH SUNDAY Octobers 
Saturday. Oct 14 8:00pm Moms C1v1c Allrlllnr111m all seats reserved 
$16 50 
Tickets on sale 
NOW 

Civ1c Box Office. N 1ghtwinds. Record Connect1on & usual outlets CHARGE 284-9190 
a three-year contract with the Mets which runs through 1991." 
Cashen had said Tuesday that a decision on Johnson's fate had been made but would not be final until he could talk to the manager, who was fishing in Florida. 
"We never had any intentions of firing Davey," Cashen said Thursday through Mets spokesman Jay Horowitz. 
Joe Mcilvaine, the Mets' vice president for baseball opera­tions, confirmed that the front office had been divided, but he said the final decision was Cashen's "and we all stand by it." 
Mcilvaine would not say if he agreed with the decision. 
"There's always going to be disagreement in the room," he said. "You're not going to get 100 pe~cent agreement all the time. We sit down and discuss it. but that's not unusual. We have these disagreements on trades all the time." 
Johnson, who signed a three­year contract after last season. has led the Mets to two division titles and four second-place finishes in six years. The team is 575-395 under him. 
Mcilvaine said Cashen decided Thursday, a day after talking with Johnson. to keep him . 
Al Harazin, the Mets' senior vice president, met with owners Nelson Doubleday and Fred Wilpon on Monday after receiv­ing input from Mcilvaine. The next day, the Mets announced as expected that they would not re-sign co-captains Gary Carter and Keith Hernandez but left Johnson's status hanging. 
A source close to Cashen quoted the general manager as saying a definite decision had been made to fire Johnson. 

Invite 
continued from page 16 
Notre Dame has won its own meet seven times in the 33 years that the race has been held. 
The Irish are hoping to fare 
better than last year, when they 
placed fourth overall. Notre 
Dame's top two finishers -Dan 
Garrett and Ron Markezich ­
have both graduated. so the 
Irish will be relying on Mike 
O'Connor and Tom O'Rourke to 
lead the team. 
Notre Dame will certainly not 
lack confidence after overcom­
ing strong adversity to win the 
National Catholics last week. 
"The top five runners com­
peted very well," said Piane. 

• 
KECK'S KLEAR WATER COMPANY 
A ~~~~ 
Bottled Spring Water Co.:Jier Rental Free Delivery 
For Same Day Service Call 
674-9992 
before 1 0:00 AM Monday through Friday 
N.D./MIAMIGAME 
NOV. 24-26, 1989 
•sgg ~~paney 
~~~~~oc. 
2~30 McKlnley-287-8747 1-800-552-2818 (IND.) 1-800-643-4804 (U.S.A.) 

-
-
Balfou& 
Dewsit Required 219/872-0346 3214 
page 14 The Observer Friday, October 6, 1989 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -The Toronto Blue Jays and Oakland Athletics took a day off from the American League playoffs Thursday and spent it trading !!"tsults. 

AMERICAN 
LEAGUE PLAYOFFS 
Toronto third baseman Kelly Gruber accused Oakland of "showboating" during its victories in the first two games of the series. 
Talking about Dave Parker's slow home-run trot in Game 2, Gruber said: "I don't particularly care for the hot dog type. It sort of makes me want to get some vengeance." 
Toronto catcher Ernie Whitt started the verbal war on Wednesday when he said he was angry that Rickey Henderson didn't slide while stealing second base in the seventh inning of Oakland's 6-3 victory. Whitt said 
Jays accusing A's of hot-dog behavior 
Huskies 
continued from page 16 
Jamie Steenblock, who sits just behind Niesen with 161 kills, will be doing their best to break their squad's losing skid against the Irish. 
The Huskies' offensive effec­tiveness will depend upon the execution of the Huskies' freshman setter Amber Kim­mel, who has tallied 449 thus far in her first collegiate sea­son. 
And in case the Irish haven't had enough volleyball, they will Henderson tried to show up Toronto. Henderson said he didn't slide because there wasn't a throw. 
Oakland Manager Tony La Russa took exception to Whitt's comments. 
"If he's taking it personal and he's embarrassed, he's a fool," he was quoted as saying in a Toronto newspa­per. La Russa said Thursday he did make the statement and then defended his team from Toronto's attacks. 
"When you get to the post­season, there is a lot of emo­tion on both sides," La Russa said. "You celebrate. If I thought some of my people overdid it, I would be one of the first people to say, 'Keep it down.' I saw the Blue Jays celebrate a lot the last two months. Hey, you get happy when you do something good. Now that we got something going good, I don't like some of the comments that make it sound like we're showing people up. We're excited that we're doing good, just as they would be." 
play Eastern Michigan in their second of a string of five con­secutive matches in the JACC. 
Huron senior middle blocker Roxanne Munch has ripped holes in many a defense this season en route to tallying a team-high 159 kills, while she has clamped down on the arm­swings of her adversaries by al­tering the intent of 57 kill at­tempts. 
"Both Northern Illinois and Eastern Michigan have reason­ably good teams," Lambert said. "But when our team de­cides to transfer what it does on the practice court to the arena, watch out, because someone will pay the price." 

Cubs even things up with 9-5 rout 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -The Chicago Cubs still can't figure out Kevin Mitchell and Will Clark. But Mark Grace and friends had no trouble solving Rick Reuschel and salvaging the split they needed. 


,
• 
Pitcher Mike Bielecki, the worst hitter in the major leagues, singled to spark a six-run first inning and the Cubs held San Francisco at bay, beating the Giants 9-5 Thursday night to even the National League playoffs at one game apiece. 
Chicago bounced back from Wednesday's 11-3 rout in a hurry. They chased the 40-year­old Reuschel with five hits, in-eluding a triple by Ryne Sandberg, an RBI double by Grace, and Jerome Walton capped the outburst against Kelly Downs with his second single of the inning. 
That, along with a three-run 
Ryne Sandberg 
double by Grace in the sixth that gave him three hits for the second consecutive night, was enough for three Chicago pitch­ers to withstand San Francisco's sluggers. 
Mitchell, who led the majors with 4 7 home runs, homered for the second straight game and singled twice. Clark, who drove in a record six runs in the opener, singled and walked, extending his streak of reaeh­ing base to seven. Matt Williams hit a two-run shot in the eighth and Robby Thompson a solo home run in the ninth that gave the Giants, who out-homered Chieago 141­124 during the season, a 6-2 home run edge in the playoffs. 
The Cubs, however, stopped Clark when it mattered most, maybe because of a move Manager Don Zimmer might have made one night earlier. Chicago led 6-2 in the fifth when the Giants put runners on second and third with two outs. Zimmer pulled Bielecki and brought in lefty Paul Assenmacher to face the left­handed Clark, who grounded out on the first pitch. 
The next three games will be in Candlestick Park. Rick Sutcliffe (16-11) will start against San Francisco's Mike LaCoss (1 0-10) Saturday. 
Les Lancaster pitched four innings for the victory. Because Bielecki did not last five in­nings, Assenmaeher would have been in line for the win, but he gave up two singles to start the sixth and was relieved. 
An all-day rain that stopped shortly before gametime failed to dampen the spirits of the sellout crowd of 39,195 and fans standing five deep on the nearby rooftops. A slight wind seemed to favor the Giants. 
·----------------------------------------­
1 
Kimmerly's
I 
I 
I I GINA'S PIZZA 684-5930 
2640 South 3rd. at Bertrand Road
I 
Niles, Michigan
I I CHECK OUT OUR PRICES
I 
PIZZA-------­

I 
Yes!! 
CHEESE .

I 
SAUSAGE .

I .
PEPPERONI

These are HAM
I 
GROUND BEEF 

I 
CANADIAN BACON . ANCHOVY .... 
I our regular 
GREEN PEPPER 

ONION I 12 inch 
I prices. 
$9.00

I 
12 lOCh  14 lOCh  12 lOCh  14 1nch  
.  $5.80  $6.95  BLACK OLIVE  $6.30  $7.70  
6.00  7.50  GREEN  OLIVE  6.00  7.50  
6.30  7.70  MUSHROOM  6.00  7.50  
6.30  7.70  SAUSAGE AND MUSHROOM  6.70  8.00  
6.00  7.50  COMBINATION  6.95  8.70  
6.30  7.70  Sausage. Mushrooms.  
... "?....  6.30  7.70  Green Pepper and On1ons  
... '6.00  7.50  EXTRAS  .80  1.00  
6.00  7.50  

OUR FAMOUS "EVERYTHING" 14 inch All Of The Pizza Toppings For A Great Tnle Treat S12.95 
i  DOMER DASH i  
ii  & DINE Saturday, October 7  !i  
~ 1 ~  The Dash: 11 :00 a.m.3 & 6 Mile Runs Pre-Football Game The Dine: Immediately Following  ~ ~ I  
~  <<<<<All You Can Eat>>>>>  ~  
~  SPAGHETTI DINNER  ~  
I  All  before the  Stanford  Game  I  
~I  "Run for the Irish"  ~ ~  

I 
-----------------------------------------·
l'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 
-
-
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
"LARGER THAN LIFE MOVIE-MAKING:' 
-Bruce Williamson, PlAYBOY 
****"AGREAT 
AMERICAN MOVIE'' 
-Joe leydon. THE HOUSTON POST 

TUCKER 
T H E MAN AND H I S D R E A M 
... 
~r!.~} 

T•&<Of'I'II(;HI CIMII"'WCASN.IIliDIIRI 
-...:.:::::-• .lm\O.Mni5IHOO 
AUIICH'I\IISlMO 
TONIGHT _ 7:30 ' 9:45 
~ Men's Undergraduate Women's! Graduate ~ Faculty/Staff 
~ $4.00 In Advance ! -= ~· $6.00 Day Of 
,: ~ (...::::,
I )'/ .. •• ,.
I tfJV~ 
~ ;~;n_) NO~V•~IIr:! •:; 
Undergraduate ~ Graduate ~ Faculty/Staff ! 
! ~ 
~ 
I ~ 
.=ZjJ 

=~ ~ 
t..CL..~~......................................~c~..J 

Friday, October 6, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON. THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
11 w~ ML ~ Cf>.l'IIN I U5it:N C\.PS£L'( . A~\) ~t.'Rt. 9.:>RRi TOO. I 
I'\IS\lNI>~STM41)1t-IG! LOC.K.\~G ROS~L'iK 00\ Of ~MISE '1'0\J O..l'H~ W\I.L 
~N INNOCE:NT 1\-\E 00-.)SE 'NASI{T JVST BEHP..\1£ \11M'SElf l-IE~\ TIM£. 
MIST~K.E! MENI, IT W~S P!$BI.OVS. LET ME IF '(o\J'D 1-l\JRJ '(0\JRSB.t OR E:'XP\..P..\N! IF 1l1ERE 'W~S A FIRE, <;,1\E 
'tOJL'ONT \1~'1£ BErn A.B\.£ l TO l-IEU' '10\J .
",_,.__ 
WILBER AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 
Harold would have been on his guard, but he thought the old gypsy woman was speaking figuratively. 





Tonight in Cushing at 8:00 PM SUB presents a Comedy Double Feature: 
FLETCH and 
BETTER OFF DEAD PLUS 
a 

DOUBLE BONUS: See BOTH mouies for$30(0(0 or bring a FRIE'ND and pay $/50 (0(0 for BOTH of you and BOTH mouies! 


LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Friday 
4:30 p.m. Chemistry and biochemistry present "Making and Breaking of Bonds in the Solid State," by Roald Hoffmann, Cornell University, Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
Friday 
7:30 
p.m. Volleyball vs. Northern Illinois. 

7:30 
& 9:45 p.m. Film, "Tucker: The Man and His Dream," Annenberg Auditorium, $2. 


Saturday 
10 a.m. Fire Prevention Open House, Notre Dame Fire Station. 10 a.m. SMC Soccer vs. Northwestern University. 
7:30 p.m. Volleyball vs. Eastern Michigan. 
Sunday 
2 p.m. Music Concert by Carolyn Plummer, Victoria Chi­ang and Karen Buranskas, Annenberg Auditorium. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Fried Perch Fried Perch Pasta Bar Beef Pot Pie Chili Rellenos Veggie Strata Ribeye Sandwich Deli Bar 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Menotti's "-50 Jardiniere Goes to the Ball" 51 Sights
1 Entrance or exit 
30 Exclusive 54 Remote
8 Crank up again 
35 Witches' group 56 Oriental nurse
15 Former Italian colony 36 Spare 60 Hepburn-Grant 37 Hersey's "-film 1963
16 Breathed out 
the Valley" 

62 Bateman of 
17 An African 
38 Homage 

"Family Ties" 
people 
40 Nuts about 

64 Wagon train 
18 Beetles 
42 Julius's two little 

65 Hades river 
19 Hold back dying words 66 Lons, Jr. and Sr.
20 Cardinals' 43 Disservice insignia 67 Ratiocinates
45 Pool participant 22 Actor Jeremy 46 Marine worm from England 
48 Charlotte, in a 

DOWN 
23 "Humbug!" children's book 
preceder 1 Church benches 
49 Algonquian 25--nogood language 2"1smell-!" 3 Location 4 Palooka ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 "-longa. vita brevis" 6 Osaka dancer 7-Lansing, Mich. slnmedias­9 Stimulating 
-...::~t-l 10 Gless of "Cagney& Lacey" 
,wwlJ•• 
plant

":++.:-fl!!"'t'!" ~ 12 Arkin or Bates -=-+::-+;,:+=-! 13 C.S.A. soldiers, to the Yankees -:::+::+.:-+=-! 14 Objectives of the QB 
COMICS 

21 Publisher Henry 24 Hokkaido native 26 Tissue: Comb. 
form 27 Deeds, in Dijon 28"Le­
d'Arthur" 29 Sra. Peron 31 Winks 32 Signed 33 Harlan or Irving 34 High respect 
36 Charter 
39 Steinbeck's "Sweet-" 41 Where to find the 
PM 44 Coral ridge 47 Eight-line stanza 48 Dapper 51 Pahlevi, e.g. 52 Belgrade coin 
• 
53 Algerian port 55 Not fully shut 57 Spanish painter 
Joan­58 Later 59 Coop group 60 Depression org. 61 U.S.N. officer 63-NaNa, 
entertainment group 

Sports
page 16 Friday, October 6, 1989 
ND volleyball playing two at JACC after disappointing loss to Ohio St. 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Assistant Sports Editor 

The city of Columbus, Ohio ­the home of the Buckeyes of Ohio State -is roughly a five­hour drive from South Bend and much less than that if you fly the friendly skies. 
But for the Notre Dame vol­leyball team, which dropped to 3-9 on the season after losing to the Buckeyes in four games Wednesday night, that jaunt seemed like an eternity . 
-
"To tell you the truth, I'd rather forget that game," Irish head coach Art Lambert said. ''I'd like to think that you learn from your losses, but there comes a time when you have to start winning." 
Notre Dame will try to re­bound from that defeat in a pair of weekend matches at the Joyce ACC. The Irish host Northern Illinois at 7:30 p.m. Friday and face Eastern Michigan at the same time Saturday. 
The Irish left Wednesday for Ohio with high hopes of recov­ering from a sputtering start of the season, but once again, they stalled out. 
Their play thus far in the sea­son has earned them a reputa­tion as slow starters, and the Irish did little to shake this al­batross from their necks as 
Irish host cross country invite 
Men's team looking to prove pollsters wrong 

By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
When the national cross country poll came out last Tuesday, the Notre Dame men's cross country team surprisingly was still ranked 15th. 
The Irish had hoped to move up in the rankings after defeat­ing second-ranked Providence last wot~kend at the National Catholic Invitational. 
Apparently, the Irish will have to prove themselves again. They have a good opportunity today at the Notre Dame Invitational, but it won't be an easy task. 
The men's team will race at 2 pm, and a B team race will bP­gin at 4 p.m., both on tlw Burke Memorial Golf Courso. 
This wm~kend's meet includes some or the top teams in the NCAA's Division II and Division Ill ranks. 

Women's squad out for another top-5 finish 
Mike O'Connor 
"It's going to be a heck of a meet," said Irish head coach Joe Piane, who also coordinates the races. "The meet is deeper in quality with good Division I, II and III sehoors." 
Ohio University. ranked 20th in the nation. will be one of the strong contenders. Edinboro and Mankato State, which tied for the Division II national championship last year. also will be participating. 
The 16-team field also is ex­pected to include Malone, which is ranked number-one in the NAJA and Division lii national champion Wisconsin-Osh Kosh. 
But the teams to look out for historically have been from neighboring Michigan. Central Michigan won the event last year, and Michigan and Eastern Michigan were victorious the previous two years. Michigan runners also have fared well on the individual level recently. 
The Notre Dame Invitational was initiated in 1956 by former Irish coach Alex Wilson, mak­ing it the oldest intercollegiate cross country invitational in the country. 
see INVITE I page 13 
By SARAH VOIGT Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team has a tough task alwad as the Irish 10 qual­ity teams in the Notre Dame Invitational Meet this weekend. 
The competition ineludes Ohio University, rankP.d 20th in Division I; and Wisconsin-Osh Kosh, tlw deft~nding Division III national champions. 
Notn~ Dame also will face WestPrn Ontario, perhaps the best tPam in Canada and the 
second-place  finisher  in  the  
Notw  Dame  Invitational  last  
year.  

Irish coach Tim Connelly is impn~ssNI but not discouraged ninth best team out of 10," said Connelly. "There are a couple of outstanding teams, and the rest of the teams are also strong. But our goal is to finish in the top half of the race." 

Connelly stressed consistent weekly improvements in per­forr.lance as the game plan for a successful season. 
"We look to improve every week," he said. "We came in sixth in this meet a year ago and we're shooting to place in the top five this year." 
A top five place finish will also take depth and teamwork, according to Connelly. 
see IRISH I page 13 

Tracey Shelton 
they dropped the first two games of the match to the Buckeyes before taking game three. 
Ohio State, led by a one-man army named Holly O'Leary and her game-high 22 kills, won the first two games 15-7, 15-8 and then rallied after a hard-fought 13-15 loss in game three, to capture the fourth game 15-7. 
Junior outside hitter Tracey Shelton led the Irish offensive attack with 18 kills, while the middle hitting tandem of senior Kathy Cunningham and fresh­man Jessica Fiebelkorn added 13 kills apiece. 
Senior setter Taryn Collins contributed 42 assists and matched Cunningham's 14 digs, but the Irish only managed to tally three total team blocks in four games-a statistic which explains why six Irish players were able to record double-fig­ure digs. 
The Irish tallied more three more kills than the Buckeyes, but an inexperienced middle blocking corps left Ohio State an open window the hit through. 
"Poor blocking was obviously our downfall," Lambert said. "In fact it was just nonexistent, but if we can take care of that 
problem,  we're  going  to  do  
something."  
The Irish will try  to  act  on  

this weakness tonight as they host Northern Illinois in the Joyce ACC. 
The Huskies come into tonight's matchup 3-11 prior to their Oct. 3 showdown with In­diana State, and, like the Irish, have been torpid in their early matches. 
Notre Dame has momentum on its side going into its fifth meeting with Northern Illinois, as it holds a commanding 4-0 lead in the series. The Irish last faced Northern Illinois in 1987 and won 15-7,10-15,15-8, 15­6. 
But Huskies such as junior outside hitter Kari Niesen. who tops the team with 164 kills, and senior middle blocker 
see HUSKIES I page 14 


The O:lserver I File Photo 

Ryan Cahill (left) and Mike O'Connor (right) will lead the Notre Dame men's cross country team against a host of the nation's best Division I, Division II and Division Ill teams at Friday's Notre Dame Invitational. Fresh off a National Catholics title, the Irish are ranked 15th in the nation. 
Notre Dame home sports schedule October 6-8, 1989 
Friday Men's cross country in ND Invitational Friday Women's cross country in ND Invitational 
Races start 1 p.m. at Burke Mem. Golf Course Friday Women's soccer vs. Miami (Ohio), 1 p.m. Friday Volleyball vs. Northern Illinois, 7:30 p.m. Saturday Volleyball vs. East. Michigan, 7:30 p.m. 




