
VOL. XXIII NO. 7 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

137thoughtdeadin Cuban crash 
Associated Press the crash site and then Castro visited the hospitals where at 
MEXICO CITY -Cuban press least 63 people were taken with reports said Monday that as injuries. Many had extensive many as 137 people may have burns and multiple fractures, died when a passenger jet Prensa Latina said. bound for Italy crashed in a A taxi driver and three pas­thunderstorm shortly after sengers he was driving down leaving Havana's airport. Boyeros Avenue in the Havana 
Italian and Cuban officials suburb of Boyeros were among worked together Monday to the injured, it said. identify the victims of Sunday's Prensa Latina said the crash crash. of the Ilyushin 62 was the 
All but one of the 126 people worst in the history of Cubana on the Soviet-made jetliner de Aviacion. were killed. Cuban news reports The fact that most of the vic­said 10 people were believed to tims were foreigners and the have been killed on the ground, bodies were burned slowed the and Radio Havana said another identification process, the 
two people on the ground were agency said. 
The Observer/ Susy Hernandez 
Line for the Fifty 
missing. "In this task, we are receiving At least 63 people were in­valuable collaboration from
Seniors camp out yesterday in front of the JACC in the hopes of getting football tickets as close to the 
jured, and 15 were reported in officials of the Italian Embassy
50 yard line as possible. The line began to form around 3 p.m. Tickets are on sale from 1:30 p.m to 8 
critical condition. and the Revolutionary National 
p.m. today. 
The plane crashed during a Police," it said. heavy thunderstorm after take­Many of the 24 people being off from Jose Marti airport, treated at the Calixto Garcia sending flaming debris plum­Hospital, one of several where
Recycling to begin at NO 
meting into neighborhoods on the injured were taken, had 
the southern outskirts of the burns on more than 70 percent By SANDRA WIEGAND attention to the weekend Community of International Lay capital. of their bodies and multiple News staff overflow of aluminum cans. Apostlets. The chartered Cubana de fractures, it said. Fifteen were 
Anyone wishing to be a dorm James Dailey initiated its Aviacion jetliner en route to in critical condition, six serious 
As the recycling of paper. representative should contact expansion when he proposed at Milan was carrying 113 and the rest had minor injuries, aluminum. and glass becomes James Dailey or attend the next the end of last year that the Italians, two Cubans and a the agency said. a campus-wide campaign this EAC meeting this Sunday at University sponsor a more crew of 11, said the Cuban am­A government commission year, students will have the 7:30 p.m. at the Center for widespread campaign. The bassador to Rome, Javier headed by Rogelio Acevedo, opportunity to get involved in Social Concerns. administration then set up a Ardizones. He confirmed there president of the Civil preserving the environment. Two committees, one a task force which decided to was one survivor. Aeronautics Institute, was in­
Receptacles for newspaper division of Student Government, implement the program this The cause of the crash was vestigating the cause of the and aluminum cans will be and the other comprised of the Fall. Last year the program not known, but a Foreign crash, Prensa Latina said. placed in all dorms. Computer student representatives and was run entirely by the EAC. Ministry employee in Rome said Castro expressed his condo­paper receptacles will be placed members of the Business This year Dailey said, "we're the weather appeared to be a lences to the Italian people in a in LaFortune Student Center, Affairs department of the trying to make this as much a factor. message sent through the among othPr places. Presently administration, will direct the student-run campaign as we "It was very bad, a storm, Italian Embassy in Havana, the the only receptacle for glass is campaign. can." with rain and lightning," he report said. in the Alumni Senior Club. Last year's program drew an said, speaking on condition of Planes were landing Monday 
There will be two or three average of $300 per semester, anonymity. at Jose Marti airport but were 
Students will also have the representatives of Student reaching a high of about $800. The lone survivor from the not taking off from there, chance to serve on the recycling Government, including Laura Most of the money generated by plane was not immediately Prensa Latina said. committee. According to James Manzi and Student Body the present program will be identified, Prensa Latina, the Italian television showed Dailey, president of the President Matt Breslin. The used for operating costs. Dailey Cuban government agency said. footage of emergency workers Environmental Action Club administration will work out predicts a one to two month It did not give the survivor's rushing through the wreckage (EAC), "We need a couple of any problems between the term before the project begins condition. carrying bodies on stretchers in representatives from every involved parties. to make a monetary profit. Cuban film critic Jose Antonio the darkness. Firefighters dorm." The main The decision as to where this Gonzalez, 44, was one of the aimed streams of water at the responsibilities of the student Recycling is not completely money will go will be made two Cubans killed, it said. charred shell of the plane. representatives will be to new to Notre Dame. An after the project breaks even. President Fidel Castro and Nearby were the smoldering organize day to day publicity, aluminum can recycling Superior Waste, a subdivision Nobel Prize-winning author hulks of two trucks apparently maintain clean. neat program was started a few of Waste Management, will Gabriel Garcia Marquez visited hit by the plane. rece 
Lisa Abbot of the handle the recycling. 

ND senate to hold special election
College enrollments 
By SARA MARLEY Any student group interested Matt Breslin, student body Senior Staff Reporter in participating in the Year of president. 
the Family should contact A special election will be held Smith. 
on the rise in Indiana 
Associated Press 4,250 ~ the largest nunw~r 
within the next two weeks to It was also announced that aof students since the years replace former Student Senator In other business, the Office facsimile machine and moreright after World War JI. 
Chris Frigon, the Student of Student Activities announced video games will also be addedINDIANAPOLIS ...,.. Record Enrollment .last y~ar 'Y"~ Senate announced Monday. that a coffee shop will open in in LaFortune.
3,902. .. ······enrollment is expected at Frigon, who represented the the basement of the LaFortune District 4 Senator Sigi Loyaseveral Indiana colleges and Indiana University officials first district, resigned because Student Center, next to the discussed plans for a studentuniversities this year. anticipate another r:··!\c·rir.d fl'[l~'''(!tl 
he was accepted into the Irish Gardens. luggage service which wouldIndiana University-Purdue rollment. ,. ;;, London Program. transport luggage to the MainUniversity at Indianapolis Official number~]'\vill p~ 
District 1 consists of Alumni, Circle. Loya hopes the servicehas recorded the highest compiled in time for the Carroll, Holy Cross, Lewis, St. "They are still in the planning enrollment in its 20-year board of trustees .meeting 
Edward's, Sorin and Walsh stages, but they are looking for history. The unoffiCial total Sept. 14, hut,indication!) ~;~. 
Halls. student input," said Student will be available to assist stu­for the fall semester is that Bloomington ··campus The Senate was addressed by Senate Secretary Deanna dents with their luggage by the 
26.675 students. Last year enrollment may be tiP 
Dr. Roland Smith, executive as­Dobrowski. mid-semester break in October. 
school officials reported 3 percent over last sistant to University President The Senate plans to create Finally, the student govern­24.808 students enrolled. 33,776. 
Father Edward Malloy. Smith subcommittees to study various ment will distribute Blue and Registration just ended . Registrar Gerald · discussed the Year of the issues involving the family. Gold Pages, booklets of adver­
Thursday at Butler that 
Family. Smith has been placed Among the proposed topics are tisements and coupons to all 
University. where the fall's 
in charge of coordinating the dependent value, ethics, prepa­students. 
registrar's office estimated 
various events scheduled for ration for lifestyle, families in The Student Senate meets ev­enrollment will be about the Year of the Family. crisis and special projects, said ery Monday evening. 
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, September 5, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Ozzy Osbourne, whose rock act once. included bit!ng ofT t~e head of a live bat, was charged Monday With threatenmg to kill his wife. The solo artist and former lead singer with the group Black Sabbath was arrested at his home north of London on Saturday, police said. A judge granted bail but ordered Osbourne to stay away from his wife, Sharon, and to return to court on Sept. 25. He was not required to enter a plea. Osbourne, 40, and his 37 -year-old wife have three children. Osbourne returned home last month after a concert tour in Japan. 
Former President Nixon has postponed a visit to China beeause of the politieal unrest there. Nixon, who made a historic visit to China in 1972, was to have traveled to China this month along with former Treasury Secretary William Simon, Pacific Business News reported Monday. Nixon was invited by the government of China and the purpose of the trip was personal, Nixon spokesman John Taylor said. 
A man in military fatigues opened fire with an automatic rifle in Colombia Monday at passengers crowding into the airport in this eoeaine trafficking center, killing one man before security fon~es shot him to death. Fourteen people, some only 15 feet away, were wounded bnfore the assailant was killed, a police official said.Medellin, 215 miles north of the capital Bogota, is home to the world's largest drug cartel and has been subjected to bombings and other violence by narcotics traffickers since the government anti-narcotics campaign began on Aug. 18. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
For sale in Lehigh Acres, Florida: 29,000 home lots, two 18-hole golf courses, a 1,700-seat auditorium, a building supply store, a 121-room hotel with restaurant, and a weekly newspaper. Federal bank regulators are looking for a buyer for the develop­ment company that owns more than 10 percent of this one-light town's land and nearly all of the major recreation and public facilities. Land Resources Corp., which came under federal control in May, is among the more curious jetsam of the nation's savings and loan crisis, which has coughed up other odd thrift holdings from llamas to a desert bordello. 
An eighty year old novice composer. Minna Keal, who resumed her music studies after retiring, heard the premiere of her first symphony Monday at the Royal Albert Hall in London. ''I'm living my life in reverse; instead of feeling that my whole life is bnhind me, I feel it's all in front of me," she said before the British Broadcasting Corp. Symphony Orchestra performed her work, which she ealls simply "Symphony." "The fact of her having produced a major symphony -a major symphony, not just a nice little symphony -as her third piece of music is beyond belief," said Oliver Knussen, who taught Mrs. Keal composition and conducted her work Monday night at the annual summer "Promenade" concerts., 
Men are going to court in increasing numbers to stake a legal claim in pregnancies, says the general counsel for the National Hight to Life Committee. Husbands or boyfriends wanting to prevent their partners' abortions have filed at least 19 suits in 13 states since March 1988, said lawyer James Bopp Jr. of Terre Haute, Ind. Bopp's litigation kit is being used nationwide by men who want to keep wives or girlfriends from having abortions. So far, it's stalled some abortions, but none of the cases has succBeded on appeal. 
On Labor Day. striking telephone workers bargained on and striking pilots protested, but for other workers the informal end to summer was a day for parades and picnics, politicians and fireworks. There were also non-labor annual traditions, like the mass walk across Michigan's 4 1/2-mile Mackinac Bridge, and the Fred Coleman Memorial Shoot, a pigeon shoot at Hegins, Pa., that drew animal rights protesters. Michigan Gov. James Blanchard and his bride, married Saturday, led about 60,000 people on the traditional Labor Day trek across the Mackinac Bridge, but this year's walk was marred by a few anti-abortion protestors. The walk proceeded from St. Ignace on the Upper Peninsula, across the Straits of Mackinac that connect Lakes Huron and Michigan, to Mackinac City on the Lower Peninsula. 
Bellhops beware: The 51 women arriving in Atlantic City on Tuesday for the Miss America Pageant will bring a lot of luggage. Preliminary competitions for the 69-year-old pageant begin Sept. 
12. For the first time this year, each contestant was required to submit an essay on an issue of her choice; if she wins the crown, she will be able to promote that issue during her yearlong reign, said pageant direetor Leonard Horn. "It is not a beauty pageant, and it is not just a scholarship pageant," Horn said. "This program fosters personal growth and achievement, and scholarship is not an end in itself, it's a means to an end." 
WEATHER 
-6-Warmer
,, ' 

Partly sunny and a little warmer today. High 
around 80. Partly cloudy tonight with lows at 60 
to 65. 


Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 

Returning foreign studies students feel like foreigners 
"Hey, how was your summer; I mean year," a passing friend shouts across the quad. Most 
'For students others just do a double take and say my name 
returning from

tentatively. It was a long summer, but for some 
foreign study they 
Notre Dame students last summer stretched into last year. For the many students who spent often find the a year studying abroad it has been quite a while 
changes shocking.' 
since they have seen their freshmen friends and walked to the dining hall on an ivy covered 
campus. Liz Panzica 
I returned to Notre Dame feeling somewhat Business Editor like a freshman, but officially a junior. The last 
time I had seen most of my good friends they were wishing me good luck and goodbye as I set out to spend the year in Rome. I was a freshman then. I returned a good year later, a junior. 
Things are a weird combination of the same, yet different for all those students who have studied abroad. Our freshman friends are still around, faithful as ever, but the social groups have changed. Everybody changes and readjusts over their sophomore year. For students returning from foreign study they often find the changes shocking. 
It was easy to think that time stood still while I was away. Often times I hopefully thought it would. Notre Dame is home and during the hard times in a far away land it was good to remember that some things stayed constant. 
Coming back I realized that a whole year had gone by. My friend and I had a full set of experiences apart from each other. We had all grown. 
I wouldn't trade my experience in Rome for anything. I did miss some events on campus, but gladly my friends can brief me on all the details 
OF INTEREST 
of a National Championship Season. 
There is a large gap in my Notre Dame memory. But, that gap was a rich experience with new friends and a different culture. I had had a unique opportunity to travel and see the world. 
However, that doesn't make me feel any better when I realize I have never even heard of the building my Government class is in. I feel as if I am an overgrown freshman. However, this didn't feel half as bad as the sophomore who mistook me for a friends inter hall "little sister." 
I really grew and enjoyed my sojourn, but I know it is time to move on. My studies in Home where a step in my education. Now it is part of my past, something I will treasure, but will never be able to recapture. What I learned will make me more able to enjoy and benefit from the rest of my time here. 
I'm happy to be back at Notre Dame. It is time to pick up relationships with old friends, keep in touch with new ones, and lind new challenges. For me it is time to move on, but now, for me, that means staying close to the Golden Dome. 
The annual Campus Activities Night will occur tonight from 7 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. at the JACC Fieldhouse. Over 140 clubs and orga­nizations will be represented. Anyone interested in joining a club or organization should attend. 
The NO American Chemical Society 
will hold their first meeting of the year today at 7 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. All inter­ested students are invited and encouraged to at­tend. 
All HPC members are reminded of the first HPC meeting today at 6:30 p.m. in Fisher. Please Attend. 
Senior Class Advisory Council will hold its first meeting today at 8:00 p.m. in LaFortune' Student Center's Foster Room. Dorm representatives and all commissioners should plan to attend. Any questions or prob­lems, call the office at 239-5136. 
Returnees from foreign lands are in­vited to come by Theodore's today from 4-6 
p.m. for free ice cream and brownies. All Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who have recently returned from studying abroad are welcomH. 
Design Editor ................ Karen Newlove 
Design AssltanL._._ Cheever Griffin

-~e-Obse.~~r-­
---=-.1-=lt ---. ~~Y~'-' -----Typesetter.... Bernard Brenninkmeyer ................................................ Gilbert GoiJ1ez News Editor .................. Christine Walsh 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
News Copy Editor .............. Sarah Voigt Sports Copy Editor . Molly Mahoney 

(219) 239-7471 
VIewpoint Copy Editor. Mike Truppa VIewpoint Layout... ......... Alison Cocks Accent Editor ............... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor Stephanie Snyder The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except 

Accent Designer ............. Alison Cocks 

during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
Photographer .......... Susy Hernandez 

University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary'.s College. Subscriptions may be pur· 
Ads Designer ................ Meg Callahan, 

chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
............... Kathleen O'Connor, Val Poletto 

The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights 
.................... Kristie Rolke, Laura Rossi 
are reserved. 
................................................................ 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up and wish her a happy one. By the way 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura, we do expect to see you dancing

!1 II LaFortune.
on pool tables tonight. 


The heart of campus life. Previews, reviews, features, futures. 

etc. 
................................................................. 

Turn to us every Friday. 
--------~---~----------­
Tuesday, September 5, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Enroll 
continued from page 1 
April, and an extra 500 students are expected through retention. 
"We will probably be up over last year," he said. 
Purdue University announced a record number of students on its West Lafayette campus for the third year in a row. But the number of freshmen has de­clined from 7,326 to 6,681. 
Fall-semester enrollment at 
Purdue is 35,817-an increase 
of 848 students over the 1988 
record of 34,969. 
Enrollment at Notre Dame, South Bend, dropped slightly from 9,980 in 1988 to 9,725 this year, according to the Registrar's office . 
At Franklin College, officials expect last year's record of 812 students will likely be topped. Thomas Ramey, vice president for student affairs, expects the tally to show the college has about 870 students, including nearly 300 expected to be freshmen. The freshmen class would have been larger except that administrators had to limit the size of the incoming class. 
Anderson University students are due back at classes Tuesday following orientation for freshmen and new students. 
Michael Collette, dean of aca­demic support services and uni­versity registrar at the Church of God-affiliated liberal arts college, is expecting enrollment to at least reach the 2,022 mark of last year. 

SMC WIND ENSEMBLE 
Senior Class Picnic The Observer/ susy Hernandez 
Carolyn Re_y, Notr~ Dame se~ior class president, p~ers through the smoke of the cooking burgers 
towards Samt Marys class officers Amy Blong and L1sa Amore (left to right). The Senior Class picnic 
was held yesterday evening at Holy Cross field. 
Parents donate to ND 
NEEDS YOU! ! ! ! ! Special to The Observer AUDITIONS: September 7 & 8 
For the fourth consecutiveCall 284-4627 for audition time or For the faciS call your local Red Cross. or write, year, Notre Dame has ranked 
American Red Cross ~ first among the nation's private 
more information AIDS + 
W..Shington. IX 20006 
institutions of higher learning 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo~ributiomfromparen~. 
University of Notre Daltle 
Foreign Study Program in 

1rncilml]mmu Oufuru~ 
Information Meeting Slide show with Professor Dian Murray 
Tuesday, September 5, 1989 4:30pm Room 242 O'Shaughnessy 
ALL ARE WELCOME!! 
Saint Ma~'s College 
NOTRE DAME" INDIANA 
Department of Communication and Theatre at Saint Mary's College announces Repertory/Perlormance 
Dance Workshop 
Auditions 

Tuesday, September 5th 7:30pm Regina Half Dance Studio Variable credit is offered and participation requires a two-semester commitment. For more information contact: Professor lndi Dieckgrafe 284-4643 
Notre Dame parents con­tributed $4,009,108 in 1987-88, according to the annual report on voluntary contributions to American higher education by the Council for Aid to Education (CFAE) in new York City. Brown University, Dartmouth College, Duke and Vanderbilt Universities fol­lowed in order to make up the top five. 
In overall giving, Notre Dame ranked 19th among the coun­try's independent colleges and universities with a total of $44,738,284 during 1987-88. Stanford, Harvard, Cornell, Yale and Pennsylvania Universities comprised the top five in overall giving, according to CFAE figures. Notre Dame's total was the third highest in University history. In 1986-87, it raised more money-$45.9 million-but was ranked one notch lower at 20th among pri­vate institutions. 
In corporate matching gifts Notre Dame was 6th in both number of gifts matched (4971) and the amount contributed in matching funds ($1,450,239). The University was 13th in the percentage of solicited alumni who gave (38 percent) and 17th in total alumni contributions ($12,595,740). It ranked 16th among private institutions in awards from foundations ($13,257,723). 
The CFAE report said that es­timated 1987-88 private con­tributions of $8.2 billion to U.S. colleges and universities fell 3.5 percent from 1986-87, the first dip since 197 4. 



~-­ -­-----~-~--~---­ -------------------~-~-----~--­ 
page 4  The Observer  Tuesday, September 5, 1989  

Democracy rallies continue, thousands flee E. Germany 
Associated Press 
LEIPZIG, East Germany ­Several hundred East Germans rallif~d Monday with banners demanding more democracy and freedom to travel. Wit­nesses said several protesters wore arrested during scuffles with police. 
The demonstration began in front of the St. Nicholas church after a traditional Monday "prayer for peaee." The church has become a gathering place 
Activities Night held at SMC today 
BY ALISSA MURPHY 
News staff 
The first meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Student Affairs focused on promoting school spirit, student involve­ment, and an appreciation for cultural diversity. 
MaryBeth Blajda, vice-presi­dent of Student Affairs, chaired the meeting which consisted of the vice-presidents of each class and hall along with vari­ous other commissioners. 
One way students can learn about the clubs and organiza­tions at Saint Mary's College is to attend Activities Night held today at 8 p.m. in the Angela Center. 
Other areas of interest in­clude the Performing Arts Series located in the ()'Laughlin Auditorium. On Sept. 15, Dance Kaleidoscope, an eight­member company • will preform contemporary dancing. 
Calllpus Ministry and You 
'Catholic' or 'catholic'? 
Are you a catholic or a Catholic or both or neither? 
The word "catholic" is a Greek word that means universal. So, at its best, a University referring to itself as Catholic would be one open to all people every­where. 
Have you experienced the Catholic Notre Dame as being a catholic Notre Dame? Has it been your experience that University Catholics are able and willing to reach out well beyond themselves to everyone everywhere? Or do you, rather, think of the University as being a narrowly defined, select group of persons who exclude certain groups and populations from full membership? 
At Notre Dame, the University admin­istration is charged to make sure we remain a Catholic University. The office of campus ministry accepts as part of its mission a charge to make sure we stay catholic. That means campus min­istry wants to be available to serve the spiritual growth of all members of the University community -not even just those who call themselves "Catholic". 
The purpose of this column is to let you know that we stand ready to do just that. Whoever you are and what1wer you might believe, we are available to you to assist with your exploration of spiritual issues. Such exploration is an important part of the University years -to ignore it is to miss out on crucial development. 
Sometimes that exploration will be about ways to increase your life of faith. This can be done through in­volvement in programs of religious edu­cation, retreats, the Notre Dame En­counter with Christ and/or a relation­ship with a pastoral counselor or a spiritual director. 
At other times your exploration might for human rights activists. 
Western reporters at the scene said the predominantly young crowd carried banners calling for more freedom. "Freedom to Travel Instead of Mass Escapes," said one sign. Another said, "For an Open State with Free People." 
A crush of East Germans have been fleeing their home­land this summer through other East bloc countries. Many have complained about the 
MARKET OPINION RESEARCH 
HIRING TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS (No Sales) PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
Qualifications: type 25 WPM, enjoy talking with people, available for evenings and weekend shifts. No research experience needed, computer training included 
$4.00-$12.00 I hour 
121 s. Niles Ave. Emporium Bldg. 2nd fl. 219-282-2754 
focus more on doubts or on current disagreement with what you had once unquestionably accepted. Or your focus might be on dealing with hurts and angers perceived to have been caused by the Church or by church members. 
As you might have heard, the Univer­sity is taking a long, in depth look at the role of campus ministry at Notre Dame. The Task Force on Evangeliza­tion, Pastoral Ministry and Social Val­ues has been created to explore various issues related to the religious life of the University community. The scope of the charge to that task force is very en­compassing and it will be about a year before its work is completed. 
But the office of campus ministry does not intend to remain dormant until the task force has completed its work. So if you have any ideas at all as to how we might better serve the University community or any segment of it -especially those segments that have been or consider themselves to have been underserved by the University -let us know. 
Especially let us know if you're inter­ested in helping to shape the sorts of programs we develop through the office of campus ministry. It is our intent to establish a number of groups to advise us on effective ways to serve the needs of a variety of population groups, in­cluding graduate students, off-campus students, racial. ethnic, religious and sexual minority students, etc. If you'd be interested in helping with that en­deavor, let us know. 
Give a call to the office, or tonight be at Student Activities night at the JACC. We'll be the ones wearing the ASK ME WHY buttons. Ask us why you should care about campus ministry. I trust we'll be able to tell you. 
rigid Communist system of this country. 
About 6,000 East Germans have escaped to the West since Hungary began removing fences from its border with Austria in May. Nearly 5,000 other East German refugees are waiting in camps in Hun­gary for transfer to West Ger­many. 
During Monday's protest, about 300 people stood outside the church, shouting "We want out!" 

Tues., Sept. 5  STUDENT ACTIVITIES NIGHT, JACC 7-10 pm. Deadline for NDE registration.  
Thurs., Sept. 7  An evening with Henry Nouwen and L'Arch Community; Experiencing God's Love and Care in Community. 8:00 pm, Washington Hall.  

Sun., Sept. 10 Opening Mass, 10:00 am-Stepan Center 
Wkd., Sept. 15-17 Notre Dame Encounter with Christ. Drop by booth at JACC on 9/5 or at Campus Ministry Library Office for info. 
Returning members of the 
Undergraduate Schools Commi ee ···........ 
'··... 
·... 

If you missed the and still want to visit 
r stop by the 
issions Office 
ADWORKS 


----------------------MINISTRY
(tMPUS 

The board will be sending three representatives to a "Racial Discrimination on Campus" workshop at Northern Illinois University, on October 28. 
Saint Mary's students will be given the opportunity to meet the Student Government mem­bers at the "Over the Hump Day Break." This festivity will be held on Sept. 13, in front of Haggar College Center from 11 
a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Finally, the Saint Mary's Student Activity Board will be 
sponsoring  the movie  "The  
Sure  Thing"  this  week  until  
Thursday  in  Carroll  
Auditorium.  

The Board of Student Affairs meets every Monday evening at Haggar . 
As the crowd tri11d to march toward the center of the city, security forces blocked the way. 
Scuffles broke out as plain­clothesmen tore down protest banners, and several demon­strators were dragged away and arrested, witnesses said. 
Later Monday, about 200 protesters left the St. Nicholas church and marched to Leipzig's train station shouting, "Free Hide to Giessen!" 
One of the main refugen re­ception centers in West Ger­many is in Gicssen, near Frank­furt. 
Witnesses said security troops watched the march from side streets but did not inter­venn and the crowd dispersed after reaching the railroad station. 
Brought to you weekly by the Office of Campus Ministry and The Observer 
----------------------------~-------------· -----------------------------------------------=~~ 
Tuesday, September 5, 1989 The Observer 
page 5 


WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT 
1989 CROP Walk being planned
OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY Special to the Observer ing event that she had an­Organizers of this year'sTHE CONSTITIITION OF nounced her intention to buy a CROP Walk hope to raise
THE UNITED STATES. 
new pair to tennis shoes for the 
$30,000, 75 percent of which 

THE CONSTITIITION occasion.
Organizational meetings for will go to the overseas work of 
'llw w.>rds we IJ\·c ~· 

the 6th annual CROP Walk will The 10 kilometer CROP Walk CWS and 25 percent of which I, take place Wednesday begins and ends at St. Joseph will be divided between the (September 6) and Thursday High School and covers a Foodbank of Michiana and the (September 7) at 6:30 p.m. at course through downtown Center for the Homeless. the First Christian Church South Bend. The walk is part of Walkers will solicit financial (1101 East Jefferson Blvd.) a nationwide fundraising effort pledges from individuals and 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS! 
ROCCO'S Restaurant 
Karen McKibbin, La Salle of Church World Service (CWS), organizations in the South 
South Bend's Original Pizza 
High School Teacher, Indiana the hunger relief and develop­Bend/Mishawaka area. Among 
Teacher of the Year, Honorary ment agency of the National Doctor of Laws of the Notre Council of Churches of Christ in the participants expected are 
specializing in Pizza, Pasta, Sandwiches, and Italian 
Baked Lasagna on Fridays and Saturdays 
Dame and Honorary CROP the U.S.A. CWS has representa­representatives from local
CARRY OUT 

Walk Chairperson, wili be pre-tives from 32 religious denomi­churches and synagogues, pri­
A tradition with students since 1951 
sent at the Wednesday night nations and provides hunger vate and parochial schools, meeting to try on a new pair of relief, refugee resettlement and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's tennis shoes donated by the Big development in 70 countries. In College, and the National 
Hours: Tuesday-Saturday 5:00p.m. -1:OOa.m. 
537 N. St. Louis Blvd. (walking distance from campus) 
Sky Shoe Store. Such was South Bend, the CROP Walk is Guard. Last year's 700 CROP
233-2464 

McKibbin's enthusiasm for the -sponsored by the United Walkers braved a rainstorm to October 8 community fundrais-Religious Community. raise $22,000. 

Lewis raises 
over$42 M 
in telethon

T-SHIRT, TOWEL, OR ANY LIGHT 
is now accepting applications for 
Associated Press 

COLORED CLOTHING, AND WE'LL 
LAS VEGAS -The 24th

PRINT THE NO HOCKEY LOGO FOR 
Day Editors 
annual Jerry Lewis Labor Day Telethon wrapped up Monday with the comic coaxing 
FREE!! 

THE BLUE LINE 
$42,209,727 in cash and For further information, please contact 
pledges from about 100 million 
CLUB 
viewers.

Janet Herold at 239-5303 or 283-4164. 
Corporations contributed an additional $36,228,846 during the 21 1/2-hour event, which featured a parade of top name entertainers and poignant stories from muscular 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES NIGHT SEPT. 5TH 
CAMPUS FELLOWSHIP 
dystrophy victims and their families to push the totalMOVEMENT* telethon donations since 1966 
to $526,524,210. 

Lewis opened the show Sunday night by saying thatStop by our inroads had been made against 40 neuromuscular diseases that 
Activities Night booth. the Muscular Dystrophy Association is involved in fighting. Lewis called the Find out about: advances "stunning to the heart, stunning to the mind." 
Charismatic Prayer Meetings 
As in previous years, it was

Christian Friendship 
the victims and their familiesChristian Book Discounts who provided the telethon's most affecting moments.
Serving the Poor of South Bend 
United Airlines executive Bob

Christian Spiritual Growth Sampson drew a standing ovation from 2,000 people in the Jerry Lewis Theater at the
We look forward to visiting with you. Cashman Field Center when he said: "There's been enough of this disease killing children and 
*A Ministry of the People of Praise Club. 
devastating families." 


South Bend, IN 46637 
I I i , I I 
JUST WHEN YOU NEED IT 
The Navy has $30.000 or more 
to help vou finish your last rwo 
years of college. 
The Naval RcserYe Officers 
Tr.1ining Corps (1\TROTC) Two­
Year Scholarship Progr<Ull can pay 
your mition, rextbooks and 
instmctional fees, plus give you a 
monthly $100 ta.x-free allowance 
dwing your last 20 months of 
college. 
Upon gr.1duation you'll be commissioned a Na\y officer and er~oy the benefilS and opponunities offered, such as advanced education in any of the N;ny's high-tech fields. . 
NROTC two-year scholarships are highly competitive. Applications must be tumed in early in your sophomore year. For more infonnation, see or call: 
LT Dan Cochran 
239-7274 
NAVY ROTC 
You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 

--~-----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, September 5, 1989 
NAACP says police in Va. Beach 'overreacted' 
Associated Press 
VJHGINIA BEACH, Va. -An NAACP official Monday accused authorities of overreacting during two nights of clashes between black college students and police -an allegation this resort city's mayor denied. 
Up to 23 people were injured and more than 100 stores looted in the bottle-throwing melees, which disrupted the Labor Day holiday in this re­sort of 250,000 and left miles of normally busy beaches nearly empty. 
Police said up to 100,000 young people, many here for an annual fraternity festival of students from mostly black col­leges, were on the streets when rioting broke out early Sunday. Violence resumed Sunday night and police, backed up by state troopers and National Guardsmen, imposed an overnight curfew. 
Police reported arresting 160 people and issuing 395 citations through Sunday afternoon. Arrest figures overnight were not immediately released. 
Jack Gravely, president of the state chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said police reaction would have 
been different if the students 
had been white. 

"Their response was to con­front the students from a posi­tion of power," Gravely said. "The Virginia NAACP strongly condemns the overzealous, overpowering and overreactive actions of the Virginia Beach police." 
But, Gravely, added, "That is not to say that they did not have a right to protect property and persons." 
NAACP officials and students have said they felt unwelcome in the city and had been ha­rassed by police. Gravely said the trouble erupted as students "felt squeezed" by police and "felt a need to show discon­tent." 
Be part of the team that gets the word out
SHENANIGANS 
Join The Observer as: 
Notre Dame's Singing & Dancing Ensemble 
AP Courier Driver/Deliveryman
will be holding an interest meeting 
If you have a car, you can: *flexible schedule 
Wed., Sept. 6th 7:00p.m. 
*earn money *shifts start at late morning 
*work a few hours a week *start at $5/hour
204 0' Shag 
*set a flexible schedule 
For more information, stop by our booth at Student Activities Night or call Julie x2645, 
For information, contact Regis Coccia or Rich Iannelli at 239-5303 
Kevin x2325 
Ifyou canfind aMacintoshinthis room, 
we mightputone inyours. Free. 

In what will surely be the easiest test of your intellect this term, Apple invites you to try winning afree Apple" Macintosh" Plus personal computer merely by finding it in this drawing. 
We'll even give you ahint: It's not the table, the lamp, or the chair. Now you're on your own. To register, look for contest details where Macintosh computers are sold on your 
campus. Oh, all right, we'll give you ahint for that, too: Look at the bottom ofthis ad. But do it really, really fast. Because only one Macintosh is being given away on this 
campus, and it's going to happen soon. Soon, as in right away. Pronto. Quick-like. But hey, you can take ahint. 
Somebodys going to win afree Macintosh. 
Enter August 25th-September 15th Notre Dame Computer Store, Office of University Computing Math/Computing Bldg. Notre Dame, IN 
10 19R9 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Madmosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, lnc.!Uustration <0 19R9 Matt Groening. One entry per pet~>n. please. Only fuUtime students, faculty, and staff are eligible to win. 
~ ~-------~---------­
Tuesday, September 5, 1989 
The Observer page 7 
NO grads rank 18th in number of Ph.D.s~~~':ed 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame ranks 18th among American private uni­versities in the number of doc­torates earned by its bachelor's degree recipients, according to a Georgetown University re­port. Notre Dame stands first among Catholic universities in the report, which ranks a total of 79 doctoral-granting, pri­vate universities. 
Notre Dame baccalaureates "professional fields," a cate­gory including architecture, business, law, social work and theology (13th); chemistry (16th); and politics and inter­national relations (17th). 
From 1977-86, the most re­cent ten years covered by the report, 810 doctorates were conferred on students who earned their bachelor's degrees at Notre Dame. Notre Dame baccalaureates ranked eighth in both engineering and agri­cultural sciences doctorates earned during this period. 
The Georgetown report is based on data compiled annu­ally since 1920 by The Office of Scientific and Engineering Personnel of the National Research Council. First profes­sional degrees, including the 
M.D. and J.D. are not included in the data. Harvard and Cornell Universities stand a close first and second, respec­tively, in the rankings. 
''Idon't want 
alotof hype.Ijustwant something I can count on.~~ 
Some long distance companies promise you the moon, but what you really want is dependable, high-quality service. That's just \Vhat you'll get when you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at acost that's alot less than you think. You can expect low long distance rates, 24-hour operator assistance, clear connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. And the assurance that virtually all ofyour calls will go through the first time. That's the genius of the AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network. 
When it's time to choose, forget the gimmicks and make the intelligent choice-AT&T. 
Ifyou'd like to know more about our products or services, like International Calling and the AT&T Card, call us at 1800 222-0300. 
-
-


ATs.T 
The right choice. 
during rally 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -Police used tear gas, bullets and batons Monday to disrupt rallies against national elections that exclude blacks, and briefly arrested Archbishop Desmond Tutu and the Rev. Al­lan Boesak. 
Acting President F. W. de Klerk said in his final campaign speech that white domination must end. 
Before de Klerk spoke in front of City Hall in Johannes­burg, 125 blacks marched there to present a petition telling him that Wednesday's parliamen­tary elections symbolize apartheid to the black majority who cannot vote. The marchers dispersed peacefully after giv­ing their petition to a police major. 
In Durban, police fired tear gas and guns on Monday to disperse an anti-election rally of 2,500 students at the mul­tiracial University of Natal, causing a stampede in which 10 people were hurt. Police fired tear gas at 500 students hold­ing a banned rally at the Indian University of Durban-Westville. Officers arrested 26 students at the two gatherings. 
In Cape Town, police jammed an armored truck against the door of Central Mission Methodist Church where people gathered to hold a banned rally. People were trapped in­side the church, and witnesses said police beat people in the streets, including a teen-age boy, as they tried to get to the meeting. 
Tutu, the black Anglican archbishop of Cape Town, and Boesak, mixed-race president of the World Alliance of Re­formed Churches, were among those arrested at the church when they refused police orders to leave. 
They were freed, along with several journalists who had 
been arrested for covering the events. 
Police said Boesak was ar­
rested for taking part in an il­
legal gathering, but made no 
comment about Tutu, the 1984 
Nobel Peace laureate. 
Earlier, about 20 policemen entered St. George's Cathedral, where Tutu officiates, ordered it closed and banned people from attending a scheduled choir concert. "They gave no reason, repeating only that the cathedral had to remain closed," said Tutu spokesman John Allen. 
More than 30 police with dogs and batons blocked the Johannesburg procession 300 yards from the City Hall en­trance and ordered the crowd to disperse. The protesters, holding their placards, sat down in the street while Cyril Ramaphosa, leader of the Na­tional Union of Mineworkers, South Africa's largest union, asked to present the petition to de Klerk. 
"Our people for over a month now have actually been showing in various ways how these elec­tions are irrelevant," Hamaphosa said, referring to daily protests. rallies marches or acts of defiance against apartheid laws. He said millions of bla('ks on Tuesday and Wednesday will protest in what is expected to be a general strike. 
"We believe that is the real election. That is how our people are casting a vote," he said. 

earned 2,630 doctorates be­tween 1920 and 1986, the re­port by Georgetown's office of planning and institutional re­search says. In separate rank­ings for each of 22 academic disciplines in which the doctor­ates were conferred, Notre Dame's alumni appear in the top twenty 11 times, finishing highest in the fields of engineering (1 th in doctorates earned); English and American language and literature (11th); 
Come and join The Macri's Deli Family 
FUN ENVIRONMENT WITH OPPORTUNITY TO GROW Positions Available: cooks dishwashers busboys hostesses 
work days or nights! 
Apply in person Located in University Center 


Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 5, 1989 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor...... . ....... .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ..................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor ......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor... . .................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ............ Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor .............. Christine Gill Controller... . . . ........... Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Coalition weaves 'seamless garment' of rights 

The Coalition for Human Rights is not a new organiza­tion on campus. It is an at­tempt to link together several already existing groups which are concerned with human rights issues, from the basic right to life for all persons, in­cluding the unborn, to political, economic and social rights in this country and abroad, so that we can support one an­other's work. Often those who are committed to one issue are unaware of what is being done by another group. Sharing re­sources and exchanging infor­mation will benefit all the par­ticipating groups. The Coalition hopes that the various member groups, from Amnesty International to Hight to Life, will mobilize in support of one another. 
The formation of the Coalition for Human Bights is much more than a tactical move, however. It represents the conviction that any assault on human rights, whether apartheid in South Africa or gender discrimination in our society, threatens the rights of all persons. The Coalition is in­spired by what has come to be called the "seamless garment" approach within the Right to Life movement. This position, publicly supported by the Catholic Bishops of the United States, holds that the right to 
Rev. Michael S. Himes 
On Human Rights 
life must be seen as an indivisi­ble whole. Any violation of any­one's right to life weakens ev­eryone's claim to such a right. Thus opposition to abortion on demand is linked to opposition to the death penalty; support for the homeless entails work for disarmament. The Coalition will attempt to foster a similar "seamless garment" position on human rights and so to ener­gize its constituent groups to work with and for one another. 
There are a multitude of rea­sons why all people should be concerned to defend human rights, and why we at Notre Dame should be passionately involved in such defense. Out of that multitude of reasons, I shall pluck one, and that per­haps not an especially obvious one. But it is an important one for those who are religious be­lievers, more especially Christian believers, and even more especially Catholic Christian believers. One can not understand what the word "God" means unless one honors· the dignity of the human per­son. 
Deeply rooted in the Jewish and Christian traditions is the prohibition of idolatry. The 
Today's column is the first in what will be a continuing series of articles from members of the Coalition for Human Rights, a network of social justice organizations on campus. The articles will all carry the title "On Human Rights." The author of today's column, Fr. Michael Himes, is the faculty sponsor for the Coalition. 
DOONESBURY 

single set of facts." Wherever and whenever human rights are violated, wherever and whenever human beings are treated as means to ends and not as ends in themselves, the word "God," if used at all, is used idolatrously and blas­phemously. 
The Christian tradition has made an even more extraordi­nary claim, that God has united God's self with the image. Our faith in the incarnation main­tains, in some of the most an­cient of Christian words, that the Lord "being in the form of God, did not count equality with God something to be grasped. but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, becoming as human beings are" (Philippians 2:6-7). One essential corollary of the incarnation is that hu­manity is what we now share with God. Or put another way, if you want to be like god, be 
first commandment of the decalogue is against worship­ping false gods. But the sec­ond, which warns against mis­using the name of God, is very closely related to it. For in fact it too is concerned with idola­try: be very careful how you employ the word "God." Idolatry probably does not seem an exceptionally strong temptation for most of us. Few of us are likely to hack up an occasional calf for Baal or sling the odd pigeon in Zeus's direction. But idolatry remains the primary temptation for the religiously inclined. The first two commandments of the decalogue are a warning to watch what we worship. For God is not to be identified with our best images of "God." And there lies the danger. Whatever we pray to or preach about, however holy, powerful, scrip­turally grounded, doctrinally approved, is not God. Any im-
RAT 15 &NcaJNTCR£1? IN 71-fE: 

POOl-S!~, THe PR.£5/l?&NT 15 
... THt PR&S&NCE OF THe RAT 
WHITe HOi££ SWIMMIN6 F'O()L. 
1/rfMOBIUZ&P. APAI<T FROM 
R&P~ 5CW!t7HING POPPY 
FeARS A8(}.1e &58 ...
8YA t5TA/?Jl,&/), !JR&A5T­
TH& 5H&&R IMPR08ABIJ..I7Y OF 
5TIWK/NG F15T LAI7Y... 
V!JM11N IN 7Ht/AJHIT& HOU5e ... 
age we construct of God is al­thoroughly human. 
ways an idol and must ever and Thus the test of our ability to 
anon be smashed. Only God can speak to or about God without 
make an image of God. And, falling into blasphemy and the 
according to the Jewish and proof of our faith in the incar­
Christian traditions, God has: nation are reverence for and 
the human being (Genesis 1 :26-defense of human dignity. And 
27). intrinsic to such reverence and 
defense is active promotion of 
Any community in which God human rights for all persons at 
is spoken of, in which the word all times in all places. As Pope 
of God is read, in which wor­John Paul II wrote in his first 
ship is offered to God, should encyclical, Redemptor hominis, pause periodically to recognize "The name for this attitude of that its best image of God may profound amazement at the have become an idolatrous worth and dignity of the human obstacle to true religion. And person is, in fact, the Gospel. It the clearest indication that this is also called Christianity" fall into idolatry has happened (#10). I invite you to express is that the image of God, the your "profound amazement" at human person, is dishonored. the dignity of being human. and In "A Believing Humanism," so to live the Gospel, by sup­Martin Buber observed that porting the work of the "the fact that it is so difficult Coalition for Human Rights and for man to pray and the fact its member organizations. that it is so difficult for him to Rev. Michael J. Himes is an carry on a genuine talk with his associate professor of theol­fellow men are elements of a ogy. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Romance fails us and so do 
friendships, but the relationship 
of parent and child, less noisy 
than all others, remains indelible 
and indestructible, the strongest 
relationship on earth.' 
Theodore Reik

L -­
•· 
---~ ~­
------~---------~----~ ---­
..----~­
_...<
Accent
Tuesday, September 5, 1989 page 9 
Shakespeare Fest celebrates director's last year 
CARLA JOHNSON 
accent writer 

During the course of the last weekend in September, Notre Dame students and faculty will be treated to four noted Shakespearean plays -"A Midsummer Night's Dream," "The Shoemaker's Holiday," "Kiss Me Kate," and "Henry V, "-as well as a party with the cast of "Kiss Me Kate." 
Since the Stratford Shakespeare Festival opened in May 1955, it has been a mecca for lovers of fine theatre. But few who have visited Stratford as a respite from the hassle and expanse of London and New York have realized that, when John Neville, the artistic director of the Festival, came to the helm, the Festival was in financial trouble. 
Stratford's is not the only Canadian theatre Neville has saved. Prior to his tenure at Stratford, he revived theatres in Alberta and Halifax. Still, nothing in his background could have predicted his busi­ness acumen. In a recent inter­view Neville reveals his success along with his decision that he will retire at the end of the 1989 season. 
In late spring, Public Image 
Limited released the ninth al­
bum in their eleven-year career. 
The album, entitled 9, is an 
overall fine effort and proved 
to be somewhat of a break­
through for the band. 
9 is basically a pop album 
with many catchy, 80s-type 
dance songs. This offers a 
sharp contrast to the band's 
early, more organic albums. 
While the change may not sit 
well with longtime PIL fans, it 
has helped the band gain more 
recognition in the States. The 
first two releases, "Happy" and 
"Disappointed", scored rather 
well on U.S. radio stations this 
summer. 
A change in guitarists has 
caused the shift in sound from 
hard rock to softer pop songs. 
This is most apparent on side 
two of 9. "Like That" and 
"Armada" are good dance 
tracks, complete with catchy 
keyboards and female back­
ground singers. This change is 
not too surprising since PIL has 
been trying to refine their 
sound since they started in 
1978. However, the band's new 
style may not be welcome be­
cause it appears that they have 
sacrificed some of their talent 
in favor of technology. 
The best songs on 9 are 
"Warrior" and "U.S.L.S. 1." 
These tracks allow lead singer 
Johnny Lydon, formerly Johnny 
Rotten of the Sex Pistols, to 
showcase his obnoxious, yet 
powerful voice. On "Warrior" 
Lydon paints a self-portrait by 
singing about a man obsessed 
with integrity: "This is my 
landll'm a warriorll'll never 
surrender." Lydon, with haunt­
ing lyrics and vocals, sings 
about the evil of war on 
"U.S.L.S. 1." 
These veteran English rockers 
have put out a great album and 
anyone unfamiliar with PIL 
should give it a listen. 
to the new artistic director.  
This is the first time in 30 years  
that I do not have any plans,  
except to stay in Stratford,"  
where he has purchased a  
home. For now, reviving the  
Stratford Festival "has taken  
its toll."  
Four plays will be presented  
this year, "A Midsummer  
Night's Dream," "The  
Shoemaker's Holiday," "Kiss  
Me Kate," and "Henry V." In  
past years, tickets for this  
weekend have sold out quickly,  
so those wishing to be included  
should buy tickets as soon as  
possible. There will be only one  
bus for transportation and  
leaves campus at 7 a.m. on  
Friday, September 29 to return  
late on Sunday, October 1. The  
cost is $180 and includes  
transportation, bed and break­ 
fast, tickets to the plays, a  
commentary by Dr. James  
Robinson of the English  
Department, and the "Kiss Me  
Kate" party. Tickets can be ob­ 
tained in the College Fellows  
Office in O'Shaughnessy Hall.  
Editor's note: Carla Johnson  
is an adjunct assistant profes­ 
sor in the Freshman Writing  
Program.  
The summer saw the release  
of a new album by Love and  
Rockets. The self-titled LP is  
the fourth from this English  
trio. Fans will be happy to  
know that it is as good as their  
previous efforts.  
Love and Rockets contains ten  
songs spanning over forty  
minutes. Guitarist/vocalist  
Daniel Ash and bassist/vocalist  
David J write about such topics  
as motorcycles, devils, and  
heaven and hell. "Motorcycle" is  
a rockin' tune about the free­ 
dom Ash feels on his bike.  
"Bound For Hell", a blues-in­ 
fluenced track, describes J's  
dream of a train headed for  
hell.  
Love and Rockets also con­ 
tains some great slow songs  
reminiscent of 1987's Earth,  
Sun, Moon. "The Teardrop  
Collector", featuring a melodic  
guitar solo, is a mellow track in  
which Ash asks "If you don't  
love someone, why fake it? And  
if you love someone why chain  
them to you?" Other slow  
songs include "So Alive", an in­ 
toxicating track that hit it big  
this summer, and "No Words  
No More", with acoustic gui­ 
tars and harmonica.  - 
One drawback to Love and  
Rockets is the arrangements of  
songs. Side one starts off  
strong then drops off. The first  
two songs "Jungle Law" and  
"No Big Deal" are great rock  
songs featuring fuzz bass, loud  - 
guitars, and slightly distorted  
vocals. 'The Purest Blue", a  
dreadfully slow song, follows.  
This sort of imbalance is an­ 
noying because it keeps the lis­ 
tener from getting into a  
groove while playing the album.  
Nevertheless, this album  
keeps up to the standards set  
by Love and Rockets' previous  
albums, and definitely deserves  
some attention.  

John Neville, who pulled the Festival out of financial trouble, has decided to hand over the reins 
The London-born Neville served in the Royal Navy during World War II. When the war ended, he trained at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts. At London's Old Vic, he portrayed some of Shakespeare's most popular characters -Hamlet, Richard II, and Sir Andrew Aguecheek; he alternated per­forming Othello and Iago with Richard Burton. Finally, he created the title role in "Alfie." 
After receiving the Order of the British Empire in 1965, he enjoyed a self-confessed "high­profile, lucrative career." When he was invited to direct a ­Canadian production in 1972, however, he gave up his estab­lished career to become a Canadian citizen. 
At Stratford, he has been one of the few theatre administra­tors who has continued to act and direct. He portrayed Professor Higgins in Stratford's big musical of 1988, "My Fair Lady", and di­rected "Mother Courage" and "Othello" in 1987 while appear-



MUSIC 
bureaucracy-when bureau­cracy grows, the actors pay for it. Finally, increase revenue by increasing audience. To in­crease the audience, you must improve the product." 
Neville ended the dominance of Gilbert and Sullivan op­erettas which had character­ized Stratford's seasons in the early 80s, restoring Shakespeare to the Shakespeare Festival. "After all, his name is in the title," Neville argues. "He is our resi­dent playwright, as it were." Neville concedes that 
John Neville, director of the annual Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Canada, will be retiring after this year's Festival which will begin September 29. 
ing as Anton Chekov in the bio­graphical drama, "Intimate Admirations." 
In addition to his own hard work, Neville attributes the theatre's recovery to a "simple philosophy. First, you stay within the budget. Then you cut 
REVIEWS 
JOHN LANE 
accent writer 

"audiences come from quite long distances to see our plays." His philosophy is "give them what they want." 
David William, associated with Chicago's Goodman Theatre, will replace Neville as artistic director in 1990. William directs Thomas Dekker's "The Shoemaker's Holiday" this season. Whether or not Neville stays on to act and direct in 1990 "will be up 
PUBLIC IMAGE LTD. 
9 

9 is basically a pop album with many catchy, 80s-type dance songs...While the change may not sit well with the longtime PIL fans, it has helped the band gain more recognition in the States. 
LOVE 
AND 
ROCKETS 
Love and Rockets 
The selftitled LP is the fourth from this English trio, and fans will be happy to know that it is as good as their previous efforts. 


page 10 The Observer Tuesday, September 5, 1989 
Women's soccer is looking to avoid a 'sophomore jinx' 
BY COLLEEN HENNESSEY 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame Women's soccer team moved up to varsity status last year head coach Dennis Grace insisted that the team would start out strong. instead of attempting to "wean" itself from the club scmlC. His confidence proved well founded when they accomplislwd an incredible 13­5-1 record in that inaugural season and now, on the eve of their sophomore year. his enthusiasm is promising. 
"It is amazing to me how quickly these girls have formed themselves into a team." he said. "We have a lot of new faces but the sense of group identity is already very strong." 
Those new faces, in the form of five starting freshmen, will prove important in today's opening game at St. Joseph's Htmsselaer. Despite their inexperience, Grace has much faith in the new recruits. 
"There will be some adjustments," he said. "But they're hard workers and they're really doing some nice things out there. " 
Among the freshmen to keep an eye on are Denise Chabot, Marta HoemPr, Margaret Jarc and Karen Wyger, all of whom promise to make real contributions to this young team. 
"There's not a lot of room for superstars on this team," said Grace. "Luckily, we have a 
great work ethic and everyone 
is interested in contributing." 
Senior co-captains Joy Sisolak and K.T. Sullivan will provide the strength and experience that the Irish need. Also returning this season to anchor the Irish offense are last year's leading scorer sophomore Susie Zilvitis and junior Mimi Suba. They will look for support from returning sweeper Molly Lennon as well as freshman goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga. 
Grace emphasized that an overall effort will be required to make this a successful second season for the women's team. 
"I think we have just as much talent and potential," added Sisolak. "and we were undefeated at home last year. Things have come together very well for us." 
This season's upgraded schedule will add new challenges,however, as Notre Dame faces at least 3 top twenty teams, including Wisconsin-Madison, a team that placed third in the country last year. 
"Challenges never hurt anybody, " Grace is quick to point out. " We're young and inexperienced, but I feel good about the past 10 days of training. As long as we play our hardest and our best we are satisfied. " 
Nobody can argue with that, but it is more than likely that this team will win a few games along the way as well. 


The Kansas City Royals lost 5-1 to the Detroit Tigers , ending Bret Saberhagen's personal eight-game winning streak. The Royals remain two-and-a-half games behind the Oakland Athletir.s in the American League West. 
The Observer accepts class1f1eds every bus1ness day from 10 a.m unt1l 4 p.m at the Notre Dame off1ce. 314 LaFonune. and from 12:30 until3 p.m at the Samt Mary's off1ce. Haggar College Center Deadline for next· day class1fieds IS 3 p.m. All classifleds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid The charge 1s 10 cents per 11ve characters per day 
NOTICES 
TYPING Pickup & Delivery 277·7406 
STUDENT COMEDIANS all ages .. interested in performing tor Alumni Sr. Club leave name and number with what you do at 277·3653 or 239 7521 ... 
PANDORA'S BOOKS BOB howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233·2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 2B7·40B2. 
Did your parents buy you a 
VALUE CHECK COUPON BOOK? 
Stop by the Information Desk in 
LaFonune between 12noon·9pm 
to pick up your book. 
lntervarsity Christian Fellowship will have its first meeting on Thursday, Sept. 7 at 7:00 PM in 217 Louis Hall. 

' LOST/FOUND I 
Lost: Ladies gray leather wallet on Mon. between 9 am & 12 in JACC Hockey Arena. Reward offered. Very important imigration papers. Contace Susan 

-Maxins-277-4469. 
Picked up wrong bag of BOOKS at the bookstore on Wed. Bl30. They were 1n the cubby holes in the front of the store. Several Archie & Italian books. I have them in my room. Call Jeff Engelmeier x2274. 
LOST HEWLETT PACKARD CALCULATOR MONDAY AUGUST 2B BETWEEN LIBRARY AND PARKING LOT. CALL 239· 730B NANCY. 
WANTED 

$350 OOIDAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS' PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE 
N E C ESSARY. CALL X1058 

University Pizza Delivery is completing their expansion!!! We are now hiring pizzalsubmakers and delivery drivers (15 positions available). Flexible hours and good pay in a fast-paced, FUN environment. Join the BEST student-run business around. APPLY NOW IN PERSON at University Pizza. 1B055 State Road #23. 
WANTED -"10" PITT-NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SAT. 1012BIB9. PLEASE CALL PAT COLLECT AT (412) 372-3000. 
I'LL BUY YOUR FOOTBALL TIX APPL OR TRADE A SR APPL FOR 2 SOPH OR JR ONES. CALL KATIE AT X1344. 
HELP! Need 3 Mich. St. tix. 
Plez call Patty X3B48 
WANTED: 2 GA Tix to the Mich game. Call x3029 and leave a message. 
NEEDED: USC General Admission tickets!!! Will trade Mich St., Pitt, Navy, SMU, Purdue, and even MIAMI II' Please call 2B3-3571 
NEED 4 GA & 2 STU TIX FOR PITT GAME. HAVE 1 USC GAME TIK TO SELL OR EXCHANGE. CALL SARAH 2930. 
Yo Dutch, you got some Pitt tickets (GA's) for me? I need 4. Pick up 
the phone, dial 3117 and ask for Steve Curtis. You will be assigned a code# and you will not be asked your name. 
NEED 3 GA's for U of MICH! Kathleen 2B3-4930 
WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812 
SOUND SYSTEM TECHNICIANS are needed to operate portable sound system. Please inquire at Student Activities Office, 239-730B 
( FORRENT 
FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NORTH CAMPUS. 272·0615. 
2 Bdrm HOME on ND ave.272­6306 
APT. UTILITIES PAID GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD MALE PREFERRED 2BB-0955 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153. 
FOR SALE 
COLOR TV RENTALS 13-INCH, $501SEM, $80/YR; 19-INCH, $701SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959 
Is It True ....... Jeeps tor $44 through the Government? Call for facts! 1­312-742·1142 Ext. 7316. 
19BO Triumph TR7 CONVERTIBLE Looks and runs great. Must sell, plates expire soon! $2900 Call Dan 239-7666 
MEN'S UNIVEGA 12 SPD. MOUNTAIN BIKE. 2 MOS. OLD. 2B7-2440. OFFER. 
LOFT FOR SALE CALL DIANE­2702 
TICKETS 
HAVE (2) GA TIX PITT & PENN ST. NEED (2) GA USC. BILL (617) 32B·6B9B. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL TIM, FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143. 
SB TO HARTFORD. NW AND UAL 1-WAY. SEPT. 2 AND 6. 239-7603 OR 291-6962. 
WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN,4 NAVY, 4 SMU TICKETS FOR USC OR PITT. PH. 419-4335334 EVENINGS. 
NEED 2 USC & 2MICH ST. TIX PLEASE!! 
NEED 2 TIX TO NO-MICH. ST. $$ CALL #1B99 
I REALLY NEED 2 MICHIGAN 
STATE GA'S. CALL BETH AT X4B52. 
WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812 
WE Desperately need ANY tickets for ANY home gamel!!!!!! Willing to pay big$$$$$$$$$!!!!!!!!! Please help us! 
TIXI TIX! TIX! TIX! GA'S TO PUR PITT NAVY SMU AVAIL. NEED TIX TO USC. CALL JM 714-792-B919 DAY, 714-792­5859 EVE, 714-675·B36B WKND. 
$$$ WANTED: TIX FOR ANY 
HOME GAME. WILL PAY TOP$$$!! $ CALL KRIS #4340 $ 
CALIFORNIA LAWYER NEEDS 1-4 GENERAL ADM. TICKETS'!!' PLEASE CALL AMBER x2529!!!! 
If you're not gonna' buy your football tickets, I will, Call Dan at 2BB-5448 
NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STU TIX FOR MICH GAME CALL DIANE-2702 
NEED 4 GAs AND 1 STU FOR MICH ST. WILL PAY $$$1 x2966 NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. ST PLEASE!!!!!! MY LITTLE SIS IS COMING OUT+ PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF SHE DOES'NT GO. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE TIXI CALL MATT #34B9 
NEED 2,4,6, ORB GA'S FOR THE PITT GAME. PLEASE CALL ANDY AT X1964 OR WILL AT X1B76. 
NEED UP TO 6 USC TICKETS. MONEY IS NO PROBLEM. CALL JIM AT X1236. 
DON'T LIKE FOOTBALL? I'D LIKE TO PURCHASE YOUR FOOTBALL TICKET APPLICATION. PLEASE CALL JERE AT 283-3227. 
NEEDED: 1 USC STU TICKET will pay cash or trade for Pitt stu ticket + $ Call Karin at x2565. 
NEED: 2 USC GAs for Mom & Dad PLEASE CALL Pete x1716 Tom x3258 Thanks. 
Need up to 4 Mich State. Good $$$offered. Kevin 1663. 
LPERSONALS I 
HiAg 
CHAMPS REST AURANT NOW HIRING WAITRESSES. UP TO $5 HR. + TIPS. APPLY AT 3421 W. SAMPLE AFTER 3:30PM. 
You cannot make it go away. It will remain, just as Ag will remain, for 2 more years. You are powerless. in the scheme of things, to over­come the legend of the wonderful 
AG. 
HI AG prevails over all!! 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 
How're you going to do it? 
.. . when you need color? 
SITTER NEEDED, PART TIME, KNOLLWOOD AREA, PREFER YOU HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION. CALL 277· B3BO. 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR CLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
Campus Hard Rock band seeks bassist.Experience a must. Call Glenn at X3064 or Vu at XIB09. 
RIDE NEEDED: Columbus OH leave 91B return 9110, will help pay 
Please call: Laura 2B4-4322 
CYCLING CLl)B!!!!!!!!!!! CYCLING CLUBII!!!!!!!!! 
The N D CYCLING CLUB 

is currently planning rides tor tun, 
fitness, and spor1. Don't be left 
behind!! 

Call DARREN BUCK at #3472 
for into on upcoming activitieS and meetings. 
Gears, 
TREKKIE 

Oh, talk not to me of a name great in story--I The days of our youth are the days of our glory; 1 And the myrtle and ivy of sweet two-and­twenty I Are wor1h all your laurels. though ever so plenty. ByroniDPS 
TOP TEN QUOTES FROM 
GLEN LAKE..... 

10. I have 2 packs of cigarettes. 
9. This is the Big Chill weekend except nobody died. 
B. Crisp, you're going to need a stretcher not another beer. 
7. I can't pret anyone we're gonna have to share. 
6. Pass me out is the only way to sleep. 
5. There has got to be a better was to get H. 
4. This is 31 (east snow) 

3. Boobs, the likes of which I have never seen. 
2. 450 beers, 22 breasts, 1Olbs of burger, 15 bags of chips, 9 packs of cigs and 114 oz. 
1. This is a little bit of heaven tor me. 
Tuesday, September 5, 1989 The Observer page 11 
Illinois upsets No. 5 Trojans as George leads late rally 
deficit in the season-opening An interception off Rodriguez kicked a field goal yards in his debut, with oneAssociated Press 
game for both teams. Marinovich by Illinois' Henry of 37 yards in the second interception. 
LOS ANGELES -Jeff George After hooking up with Shawn Jones at the Southern Cal .f.f quarter and another of 36 Neither team was able to threw two touchdown passes in Wax on a 53-yard tipped with less than two minutes to yards in the third period. move the ball on the ground, the final six minutes of the scoring pass with six minutes play helped ice the victory for George, who threw for Z,Z57 and, until George struck for game, the Jut a 2.0-yarder to to play, George marched the the Illini. yards last year, finished the two touchdowns in the final Steve Williams with 2:19 Illini 80 yards to the winning Marcus Hopkins had given game with Z7 cxn.pletions in .f3 quarter, neither quarterback remaining, to give No. .Z.Z score. Southern Cal a 13-0 lead in the attempts for Z48 yards, with wu able to generate any 
Illinois a U-13 victory over The Trojans got the ball back third quarter when he blocked one interception. CICIOGriency on offense. fifth-ranked S• ~.~them Cal on twice after the second Illinois a punt, scooped up the ball and The Illini, who finished last Monday nighl touchdown, but red-shirt ran 37 yards for a toumdown. Marinovich, who got the seasonwith a 6-5-1 record, had 
freshman quarterback Todd Southern Cal kicker Quin starting job when O'Hara went lost nine of 10 previous 
Doug Higgins provided the Marinovich, starting in place of Rodriguez provided the rest of out with a knee injury during a meetings with Southern Cal, winning conversion as George the injured Pat O'Hara, was the scoring in the defense­scrimmage on Aug. ZS, with the last Dlini 'rictory over rallied the Illini from a 13-0 Wlable to move the team. daninated game. completed 14 of 2.7 for 120 the Trojans in 1~. 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
~=~~-:~-~~~::~:~~~:i~:=:·~~-~-~-·~:;·.-~p II 
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
II 
and wish her a happy one. By the way
~ir Richerd's _/~ 
Laura, we do expect to see you danc1ng 
on pool tables lonighl. LaFortune.
HAIR DESIGNS ~ 

Men & Women's Cuts, Perms, Styles 
fJ! 

Question: How do you reach over 12 000 
417 DixieWay North (Roseland) ~ 
people daily? ' . · 
South Bend, IN 46637 ' 25% off Nexus, ThermaFuse 
Answer: Buy Observer ad space. 
& Paul Mitchel Products with this coupon. 
You can save literally days of work between now and grad­uation. Simply by using an HP calculator. To keep you from endlessly retracing your steps, ours have built-in shortcuts. Such as the unique HP Solve function for creating your own formulas. Menus, labels and prompts. Program libraries. Algebraic or RPN models. 
01989 Hewlett-Packard Company PGI2905 

Better algorithms and chip design help you finish much faster and more accurately than their way. So, whether you're in engineering, busi­ness, finance, life or social sciences, we've got the best calculator for you. For as little as $49.95. Check it out at your campus bookstore or HP retailer. 
Call 239-6900. 
Ourway. 
There is a betterway. 
Ffj~ HEWLETT ~~PACKARD 
. · 
vs. 

NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home 422-2812 
BBFOBEYOU HAVE '1'0 BU1tY 
YOUR HEAD DT 
BOOKS••• 

ComeSeeUsl 
HAIRCUT. SHAMPOO &BWWDRY
S1095 
• 
No Appointment! 

• 
7 Thzys a Week! 

• 
l"BlD!I Tanning ­Bey 4-Get 4 FBEE! 



-
--~­

page 12 The Observer Tuesday, September 5, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Cubs, Cards win N.L. East battles 
The Observer Sports Department will have a
Sandberg, Lancaster beat Mets; Worrell strains elbow meeting for new sportswriters tonight at 8 p.m at The 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Todd Worrell strained his right elbow in the ninth inning of the St. Louis Cardinals 4-1 victory over the Montreal Expos Monday night. 
Worrell, who leads the Cardinals with 20 saves, said he felt a "popping sensation" just below his elbow after a fastball to pinch-hitter Jim Dwyer$ Worrell will be examined Tuesday by Dr. Stan London, the Cardinals team physician. 
Cubs 7, Mets 3 
Ryne Sandberg hit his career­high 27th home run and reliever Les Lancaster pitched four shutout innings, leading the first-place Chicago Cubs over the slumping New York Mets. 
The Cubs won the opener of a two-game series before 46,049 fans and sent the Mets to their fourth straight defeat and seventh loss in 10 games. Chicago moved 4 1/2 games ahead of the fourth-place Mets, while runnerup St. Louis remained 1 1/2 behind. 
Yankees 2, Angels 1 
Don Mattingly's solo homer broke a tie in the sixth inning 
hotel," Saberhagen said. "It's 
tough to get by on just my 
fastball and change up, 
especially in a small park." 
Saberhagen, who had won 14 of his last 15 decisions, allowed four runs and nine hits in seven 
Red Sox 8, Athletics 5 
Dwight Evans homered and Mike Greenwell continued his hot hitting with three hits and an RBI to back John Dopson's strong pitching as the Boston Red Sox beat the Oakland Athletics 8-5 Monday night. 
Dopson, who missed four weeks with a muscle strain in his right elbow, held Oakland to two runs and four hits until the ninth and won his first game since July 27. 

Orioles 5, Indians 4 

Tim Hulett, called up from the minors late last month, hit a solo home run with two out in the ninth inning to give the Baltimore Orioles a victory over the Cleveland Indians on Monday night. 
Cleveland reliever Rod Nichols, 3-4, had retired 15 batters in a row before Hulett drove a 2-2 pitch into the Orioles' bullpen in left field. 

is now accepting applications for 
Day Editors 
For further information, please contact Janet Herold at 239-5303 or 283-4164. 
and the New York Yankees~~~==:::::::::::::::::~..
went on to their fifth straight 
victory, beating the slumping California Angels. 

With emergency starter Clay Parker winning his first game since July 1, New York completed a four-game sweep of the Angels, who have lost five straight and dropped five games behind the division­leading Oakland Athletics in the American League West. 
Rangers 8, Twins 5 

.Julio Franco went three-for­three and drove in the go-ahead run as the Texas Hangers beat the Minnesota Twins. 
Brad Arnsberg, 1-0. pitched four innings of four-hit shutout relief in 101 degree heat as the Hangers won their 70th game, ~~quailing last year's victory total. 
Tigers 5, Royals 1

-
Bret Saberhagen's winning streak was ended at eight games by the Detroit Tigers on Monday. and the Kansas City Hoyals pitcher knew why. 
"I left my curveball in the 


:::::::::::==== Holy Cross 

Priests & Brothers 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS! 
To learn more about the Holy Cross Priests and Brothers and our ministry here at Notre Dame and throughout the Church, stop by and visit our display: 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT '89 Tuesday, Sept. 5, 7:00-10:00 p.m. Joyce ACC 
or contact: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. Vocation Directors Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone: (219) 239-6385 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAM IN 
TOLEDO, SPAIN 
DISCUSSION 
with l'rufessor Angel Delg~do 
Tuesday, September 5, 1989 4:30P.M. Room 114 O'Shaughnessy 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 



Observer offices, 3rd floor LaFortune. -The Observer 
The varsity golf team will host the Notre Dame Campus Championship Golf Tournament on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 9-10 and 16-17. The tourney is open to faculty, staff, administration and students. Entry forms and more information are available at the golf pro shop. The entry fee is $5 with a deadline of 5 p.m. Monday. The tourney is also an open tryout for the men's and women's teams. -The Observer 
The Cycling Club is holding signups for the new year. Call Darren at x3472 for more information. -The Observer 
The Handball Club is currently holding registration for the fall semester, For more information, call Mike at 239-7735 or 239-736. -The Observer 
Lyons Volleyball Tournament will be held Saturday, Sept. 9. Signups will be Monday and Tuesday in the cafeteria. The entry fee is $9 for a team of six players with a minimum of two girls. For more information, call x2851. -The Observer 
JACC FIELDHOUSE 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. (Enter through Gate 3) 
SPONSORED BY THE 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, CENTER FO'-"'---­
SOCIAL CONCERNS, 

NON-VARSITY ATHEL TICS 
NOW! WE HAVE DELIVERY 

Call 277-7744 
Subway is delivering to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses during the following times: 
12 Noon-12 Midnight Sat. & Sun. 5 p.m.-12 Midnight Mon.-Fri. 
~~IJ;It•Ii~ 
State Road 23 and Ironwood 
Tuesday, September 5, 1989 The Observer page 13 
vector research VRX-2700 • 30 Watt per Channel RMS • Completely Discrete Outputs • 20 FM and 20 AM Presets • Pre-Out, Main-In • Digital Quartz Synesized Tuner • Multiple Audio-Video Inputs • 300 OHM Cable Input LIST PRICE NOW 0 0219 °179 °DTL-50 CARVER COMPACT DISC PLAYER WITH • 9 -function lnfared wireless remote • Digital Time Lens • 9-track programmability Most manufactures would be content to present the DTL-50 as their top-of-the-line CD player-it's that good. Incredible sonic performance, and the equally remarkable LIST PRICE NOWrestorative capabilities of the Digital Time Lens art brought to your ears through an 0 0impressive list of features that make CD 550 °listening an exercise in comfort and precision. 359 °VCD-420R vector research REMOTE CONTROLLED CD PLAYER • Wireless Remote Controlled • Digital Filtering and 176.4 kHz Oversampling • Versatile Programmability • Five-Way Repeat • Comprehensive Display • 3-Beam Laser Pickup LIST PRICE NOW• Audible Cue and Review 400 QQ. 299 95 • Patent Pending DiaductTM Port for Superb Bass • 3/4" Dome Tweeter with Ferro-Fluid • 5 1/4" Black Polypropylene Woofer • 50 Watt Continuous RMS Power Handling • 7 Year Transferable Warranty "At lower levels the sound character of the PN5+ system was amazingly close to that of our reference Model PN-5+ speakers, which cost nearly twenty LIST PRICE NOWt1mes as much!... Quite remarkable Stereo Review 0 0January 1988 179 °149 °+-----90 Days Same As Cash------1 VISAaudiu §Pet:iali§t§ MASTERCARDDave Derda Ken Fozo Tom Spink Kent Reiter Jeff Seig 401 N. Michi an South Bend ln. 219-234-5001 DISCOVER  

Irish alumnus Green survives Bears' final cuts 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. -As the Bean waived tZ players to reach the season-opening 4.7­man roster, Coach Mike Ditka expressed concern Monday about his team's lackluster pre­season perfonnanoe. 
"We stunk in the pre-season, but we won't stink once the season begins, hopefully," said Ditka, speaking at his weekly news conference. The Bears had a .Z-.Z record in their pre­season exhibitions. 
Five veterans won't be around for Sunday's regular season opener against the defending AFC Champion Cincinnati Bengals. Seven rookies were also cut in the final roster trims. 
Ditk.a said it was an ex­tremely difficult decision to cut Kurt Beck.er, an eight-year veteran out ol Michi.!!an. Becker has been a mainstay as one of the top three offensive guards the past few seasons. 
"I told our football team that I hate to get rid of players with character, and I respect the effort he has given us the past six or seven years," Ditka said, referring to Beck.er. "He'll do fine." 
Ditk.a said he hated to lose 
players lik.e Beck.er, but he bad 
decided "we're going to go with 
sane of the young people." 
"I've been around too many teams that have gotten old." 
Eighteen of the 47 players on the final roster are in their first orsecond year. 
The other veterans cut were defensive tack.les Sean Smith and John Shannon, safety Todd Krunun and center John Adick.es. Smith and Adickes were three-year players, while Krumm and Shannon had been in their second year. 
The seven rookies cut were quarterback. Brent Snyder, a seventh-round draft pick. out of Utah State, and six free agents -fullback. Bryan Bero of Utah, running back.s Curtis Stewart of Auburn and Brian Taylor of Oregon State, tight end James Coley of Clemson, wide receiver Tom Waddle of Boston College and linebacker Steve Hyche of Livingston. 
But Ditk.a said some of the rookies whowere waived might be named Tuesday to the six­man developmental squadmade up of first-year players. 
-
The latest round of cuts leaves nine rookies on the Bears regular season roster, including first-round draft pick.s, defensive end Trace Armstrong of Florida and cornerback. Donnell Woolford ofOemson. 
Other rookies nnak.ing the squad include linebacker John Roper, offensive linennen Dave Zawafson, Jerry Fontenot and Chris Dyk.o, safety Mark.us Paul, defensive linennan Tony Woods, and Notre Dante running back. Mark. Green, who will be assigned to running back. punts and k.ick.off returns on the special teams. 
Ditka said the Bears' special teanns nnust innprove substantially if the team is to be a contender. 
In Saturday's 41-38 pre­season win over the Los Angeles Raiders, Ditka said the special teams twice let the opposition reach the Bears' 35­yard line, putting added pressw"e on the defense. 
"I'nn not going to pull any punches," Ditka said. "We have to be good on special teams because it will have too nnuch of a bearing on what the pressure will be ... on our defense, and offense too." 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, September 5, 1989-· 
Connors buries Edberg, while Lendl suiVives in five sets 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Ivan Lend!. the player of the 80s, showed why Monday night. 
Pushed to the limit by the attacking style of Andrei Chesnokov, the top-seeded Lend! called on all the power and guile that has made him dominant this decade, rallying to beat the 16th seed from the Soviet Union 6-3, 4-6, 1-6, 6-4, 6-3 at the U.S. Open. 
"If I look at it now," Lend! said, "there are a lot of moments I could have gone down. I'll take it anyway it comes. If I bury people, fine. If I win like today, that's fine too.' 
Lend!, a three-time winner here and a finalist every year since 1982, slugged it out on 
Pritchett dropped 
by Dolphins 
in final NFL cuts 
Aaaodaled Pr.. 
MIAMI The Miami Dolphins placed Jr.ick.er Fuad R.veiz on the ~ured reserve list Monday, meaning he can't play with the team this season, and "leased~ players who started 18-4 gam.. for Coach 
Doo.Shula. 
Linebacker Bob Bnulzinski, cornerback. Don McNeal and a.fety Bud Brown, all membenr of Miami's Ja.t Super Bowl team five season. ago, we" among 11 playenr waived as the Dolphins reduced their rocter to the NFL'• mandatory -47­manlimit. 
Shula also released veteran quarterback Cliff Stoudt, who bad two intertleptions returned for touchdown. in Saturday's final preseason game, a ZO-10 loa to the Philadelphia Eagles. 'lb. depariure of Stoudt, signed u a free agent Ja.t spring, meaDS the Dolphins wiD carry only two quarterbacks -Dan Marino and second-year pro Scott Sec:ules. 
Five Plan B free agents AII"Vived the final cut, induding hith-prioed outside linebacker 
E.J. Junior. Also making the team were five rookies, including free agent receiver Andre Brown of the University of Miami; defensive back J .B. Brown of Maryland, a 12th­round draft choioe; and kicker

-
Pete Stoyanovich of Indiana, an eigb~round pick. Stoyanovich made only two of six field goals in preseason games. But because Reveiz suffe"d a groin ~ury in the first week of training camp, Stoyanovich will be the Dolphins' kicker in their regular-.seuon opener Sunday agaln.st Buffalo. '1 just don't want people to think the job was handed to me because Fuad is hurt," Stoyanovich said. "It looks that way right now. I don't feel like I've proven myself yet. "All soon as I start banging a few through and earn a litue respect around here, I'll feel a lot better about myself." 
Reveiz, who has made 53 of 12 field goals in four seasons ,vit.p Miami. estimated that he 

• sa weeks away fi'Cllll being ready to kick.. 
Also released were fonner Notre Dame linebacker Wes PritcheU, receiver Deva.l Glover and nose t.ackle Bert Weidner, all rookie draft choices; and defensive back Bobby Watkins, defensive lineman Nate Hill, nmnin,g back Gerald White and offensive tackle Barry Pettyjohn, all fonner free agents. 
the grandstand court with Chesnokov for 3 hours, 45 minutes. They matched powerful forehands and madly spinning backhands before Lendl's break in the seventh game of the final set was decisive. 
"He wasn't missing and I decided if I was going to go down, I was going down swinging," Lend! said. 
Lend!, 111-8 on hardcourts since 1986, made a stunning 73 unforced errors to 42 for the Soviet. In the end, Lend! had won only four more points than Chesnokov. 
"He was hitting back everything," said Lend!, who had swept his first three matches. "I was hitting crisply 
but always seemed to be 
missing the last shot. I had to 
fight it out in the end." 

Chesnokov had Lend! off­
balance for most of the match, 
often pinning Lend! well behind 
the baseline. But Lend! showed 
why he is a champion in the 
final set. 

"I felt I had the upper hand in the whole last set," he said. "He's so quick and he served well at important times. I was always fighting on his serve." 
Chesnokov, 23, would not call it the best match of his life. He did admit it was the most disappointing. 
"It's very hard to say" if he should have won, Chesnokov said. "My opinion is I had a little bit more chancP. to win 
this match than him. "I had a chance to beat Ivan today, a very good chance." 
While Lend! and Chesnokov were battling at the 6,000-seat grandstand, the 20,000-seat stadium was three-fourths empty for the first set of the match between Stefan Edberg and Jimmy Connors. 
"It was cold but not windy," Lend! said. "I didn't like it a bit. In the end, I was so aggressive, he couldn't keep up." 
Earlier, Tim Mayotte, finally feeling at home at the Open, moved into the quarterfinals for the first time, beating French Open champion Michael Chang. 
In a repeat of their fourth­round match at Wimbledon, Mayotte used his strong serve­and-volley tactics to overwhelm Chang. Mayotte, the ninth seed, fell behind 5-2 in the first set against the seventh -seeded 1 7­year-old. But he stayed aggressive and won 11 of the next 12 games. 

John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
1Lli.OII · IMDIAU 

Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 

AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 

5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 
NVA DEADLINES 

I. SUBMIT ROSTERS INWRITINGTOTIIENVA OFFICE BY SEPTEMBER6 
2. 
TEAM MEMBERS MUST RESIDE IN TilE SAME HALL 

3. 
ROSTER MINlMUM IS 1.5 

4. 
ENTRY FEEOFSJS IS DUE WID! ROSTER 



S. AU. PLAYERS MUST FILL OIJT INSURANCE RlRM 
6. 
A PHYSICAL EXAM IS RECOMMENDED PRIOR TO PARTICIPATION. 

7. 
RULES AND SCHEDULES WILL DE PROVIDI'D 


ENTRY DEADLINE: SEPTEMBER 6 
~ ~~GRAD -SCHOOL ~ I ~ '('// FOOT/I \LLJ 
SIX MAN TEAMS 
I. Em'ER AS A DEPARTMENT 

2. SUBMrTROSICRSTONVAOFFICE BY SEPTEMBER6 ). RULES AND SCHEDULES WILL BE PROVIDI'D 4.1NDIVIDUALS MUSTFILLOUTINSIJRANCEFORM 
5. CAPTAINS WU.L BE NOTIFIED OP MEETING 
ENTRY DEADLINE: SEPTEMBER 6 
2 3 9 
I 
6 1 0 0 
16" SOFTBALL 
SLOW PITCH TOURNEY 
ELIMINATION TOURNAMENT FOUR DIVISIONS 
I. DIVISION OIAMPJON WU.L PLAY OFF 
2. 
01'91 TO ALL STIJDENTS· NOT NECESSARY TO LIVE IN TilE SAME IJAJ.L 

3. 
TOURNAMENT LIMMrrEDTO FIRST 32 TEAMS TIJAT SIGN UP 

4. 
ROSTER MUSTIIAVE IS PLAYERS MlNIMUM 


6. ROSTER MUST LIST' CAPTAIN lit PHONE NUMBER ASSISTAI'ITCAPTAIN lit PJJONENUMDER TEAM NAME 
6. 
RULES AND SCHEDULES WILL DE PROVIDED 

7. 
SUBMrTROSTERSTONVAOfFICE BY SEPTEMBD! 6 


ENTRY DEADLINE: SEPTEMBER 6 

I. PLAYERS MUSTBEFROMTIIESAMEIIALL 
2. 
PLAYERS MUST COMPIEI'E AN INSURANCE FORM 

3. 
PLAYERS ARE RESPONSIBLE R>R IllS INJURIES AND MEDICAL Bn.LS 

4. 
rriS RECOMENDEDTIIAT PLAYERS !lAVE A PIIYSICAL EXAM PRIORTO PARTICIPATION 

5. 
TEAM ROSTERS AREDUEINTIIE NVA OFFICE BY SB'f. 6 

6. 
ROSTERS ONLY BEACCEPTEDWTnJTIIE S40ENTRY FEE 

7. 
OIECK SPECIFIC RULES FOR ELIGJBILrTY INFORMATION 

8. 
ROSTII MINIMUM IS 24 PLAYERS 


TEAMS ARE REQUIRED TO PRAcrJCE AT LEASTTIIREE TIMES PER WEEK AND HAVElWO WEEKS OF PRACTICE PRIOR TO TIIEIR FIRST GAME. 
ENTRY DEADLINE: SEPTEMBER 6 

SEPTEMBER 6 TENNIS DEADLINES WOMEN'S GRAD MENS SINGLES MIXED DOUBLES AND GRAD/FAC MIXED DOUBLES 

Tuesday, September 5, 1989 The Observer page 15 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Furniture 50 Casino bottoms, employees
1 Whitish powder 
sometimes 

52 Benny's Maxwell 
5 T1me and neutral 30 Gumshoe 53 Barely make dofollowers 34 Letters for 54 Sherwood 10 Milling Margaret Forest's Will byproduct 

58 Covering for 14 Medley 
35 Nitpicking 

Larry Bird's foot 
37 Angel in white 

15 Cool one's heels 62 Mississippi
38 Don Jose's 
tributary16 Etna's output 
emotion 
63 Do an 17 Utah City 
40 Green 

accounting JOb 
18 Amazon 42 Parimutuel 65 Emperor after tributary 

recording device, Claudius I 19 Parrots for short 
66 Pops 

20 Colorful 43 Changed 67 "Mack the-" garments in residences 
68 Midterm. forCancun 
45 End at an early example 22 A daughter of stage 
69 Olympic hawk 
Agamemnon 

47 Foundation 10 The fat man in 24 Part of a trek 
red 

25 Wap1ti oracle 71 Cheers in Toledo 
48 Act like an 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
DOWN 
1 Male turkeys 
2 Lotion ingredient 
12 State 31 Investigate 54 Fountain drink 3 Speaker with 
13 Its red-letter day 32 Perfume basis 55 Scorch forked tongue 
was in July 1969 
56 Nye, to 4 Shade of blue 
33 Attachments on 
21 Bird sound clarinets Napoleon 5" . Purple 
23 College in the 57 Bluefin
36 Vessel for butter Sage" author Tarheel State 58 Separate39 Organization
6 Is in the red 26 Wearer of a carefully
founded in 1864 
7 Broken-down crown 59 Boat-bottom41 Chop-sueythoroughbred 
27 Galahad's garb timber
compan1on8 Green isle 
28 Push roughly 60 Language tor 8 
44 Control
9 "A-Life," Down
29 Brown-furred 1939film 
46 Booty
ermine 61 Decomposes 49 Sounds old 
10 Power failure 30 Religious 64 Heavy metal, to 11 Engrossed council 51 Shed many listeners 



COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1-1\,Ct>..\."i\N.! AREN.T iO\J 
Fx'CI\£D A\?ci.JT GOING To SCI-\00\.. ? LOO\:: A.\ 1\U. 1\.\ES£ GR~M SCJIOOL S\JPPL\~5 I GO\' l LOIJ~ I-1~1JING Nt.W 
NOTt.BOOKS /1.1\1\J 'StU\=~.' 

BUZZ MC FLATTOP 
t..bt.;, /..OCt< }fr ~.,.. 6tAV. \ 8vz~/ t.(qk: aff.l 
1\\1. I'VE GoT 10 st-'1. 15 
1\\t.i'R£ NaT MA'(Il{<:, ME 
l£1\R\-1 11.1-\'l RlR£\GN \.AN­G..lt>-Gt.S! IF I:NGL\'5~ \S (;:(X)\) EN.Cl\JGI-\ RJR Mf. TI\Et-l 8'{ G.Cl\1..'{, IT'S ~ Et-IOil\ 
Looking for 
E'JER'{oN.E SWN\..D S\Bo..K ENGL\51-\ OR j\J':JT 51-\\JT V?­n1t>.:l's WI-\~T I SA'( .' 
\ 
f\/l-c_ 
,I /r-­
~ 
L.t. 5AM t.JAi-S/( FoR O'?!M£5~ fio/.£ C;l?.;~ OF 1J/#. 1./~j(. /5 171!. ,.l:/PNAPP/N'4 t:r 
AtJo~~6~ 
Q\1£ tj)zz. 
1-fCF't.A r"1"cP. 
BILL WATTERSON 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Ha! The idiots spelled 'surrender' with only one 'r'!" 
Why not Notre Dame's Largest Student Organization 

Stop by our booth at the ACC tonight and see how you can get involved with social, cultural, intellectual, and service programming at Notre Dame. And, of course, make some new friends in the process. 
-
·~ 
'tlll 51-\00LO 
Mt>-iBE Q\£CK 
11\E 0\EMICAL CONTB-IT c:k 10\JR BR£1..\<.­FAST Ct.RtAL. 
Til.~~ CA~ M~~ 
ME GO \Jt{\'\L 
GR~OC ~IGW\, 
ANt> 1\.\9'4, FFFT, I't'l\ O'JT\1>. 
I-1~'K£! 


something to get involved in? 
Sports
~ge 16 Tuesday, September 5, 1989 
Pangborn group first in ticket line 
By BOB MITCHELL 

While Pritchett found classmates. Televisions? Yes, 
Sports Writer 

probably the first of many in true senior ingenuity , a few 
Eight o'clock on Monday excuses to skip classes this unnamed seniors attempted to morning markPd the start of year he was not alone in his run an infinite number of the first full week of classes for quest for the best seat in the extension cords from inside the most students but for house . Within twenty minutes JACC to the concrete of Gate 10 Pangborn senior Doug Pritchett Phil Marzokk and Mark to supply themselves with Labor Day nwant something Galasso, both Off-Campus electricity for the long night entirely differPnt-a chance to residents, joined in the twenty­ahead. But were thwarted by 
get 50-yard seats for his final nine and half hour marathon Notre Dame security who season at Notre Dame. And so that was awaiting them. pulled the plug on the project. while thousands of his "It's not worth sleeping out classmates crisscrossed the two nights but eight o'clock is Why would anybody wait this quad, Pritchett went straight to not so bad," said MarzofT who long in line for tickets ? Gate 10 of the JACC to claim his was representing some thirty plaee as the first man in line people. "I' m doing it for "Because senior tickets are for 1989. posterity sake. Forty years worth it," said Bob Tomihiro 
"I figured we would be fn!~. now I will be glad I did who brought a chair , cooler second or third," said Pritchett thJs. and John Varley's Wizard to who n~presents a 30 person But in the mPantime seniors pass the time and also contingent. "Last years guys an~ lugging radios,televisions, expressed his prediction for from Pangborn wern first in coolers full of ? and a few this year's squad. "If we win line so I wanted to ket>p up the books for show over to the against Michigan I am looking tradition." JACC to pass the time with their for another championship." 
Ticket Sale Information 

2 .. 
1 
18 
::::. 19

J 
"~
36 .. 

.. ::::.20
35 
' ~ 

§~~~;___:; ,-~.,. lA lA ~lA --~~ ' lA 

30 29 28 27 ~ 26 i 25 24 ', 

Seniors: Today 
Juniors: Sept. 6 
Sophomores: Sept. 7 Freshmen: Sept. 8 Sales begin at 1 :30 p.m. 
Grace upbeat after Irish drop p8ir"
Soccer team not panicking after losses to Virginia, SLU 
BY KEN TYSIAC 
thn second half to try to get on Sports Writer the scowboard." Grace's troops got caught 
At first glance, one might pressing, however, and Virginia think that Notre Dame soccer took advantage of the chances coach Dennis Grace would be taken by Notre Dame, adding upset after returning from this two goals in the seeond half for weekend's road trip to the final margin of 3-0. Bloomington's Bright spots for the Irish in­Adidas/Metropolitan Life cluded junior stopper Paul Classic with two shutout losses LaVigne and frnshman forward to begin the 1989 season. As it Kevin PPndergast, who wPre turns out, however, anger is the both named to the all-tourna­furthest thing from his mind. l. ment team in a field that in­
After all, the Irish performed cluded second-ranked Indiana
Kevin Pendergast 
very well against two of the in addition to St. Louis and best teams in the nation despite On Sunday against the Virginia. losing 2-0 to thirteenth-ranked Virginia Cavaliers, the Irish "It's frustrating to lose St. Louis University and 3-0 to were outshot 13-5, and Grace games like we did this WPPkend, top-ranked Virginia. confesses that "we didn't have because we play1~d well against 
Although the Irish didn't enough scoring opportunities two of the best teams in tlw score a goal in either game, to win." But the fact remains country but lost when the Grace says that "against St. that the Irish held the powerful breaks wnnt against us," says Louis, we had several golden Cavaliers scoreless for almost LaVigne. opportunities, the best of which the whole first half. occurred when one of their An Irish defensive miscue al­Despite his disappointment, fullbacks cleared the ball right lowed Virginia to break that LaVigne said he was excited off the goal line. We had tie, however, as Ben Crawley and honored to be chosen to enough scoring chances to win knocked a rebound into the the all-tournament team. the game." goal past Irish goalkeeper Pendergast has been a wel­
St. Louis didn't score until Danny Lyons, who had made come addition to the starting 
4:02 into the second half, when the initial save. team. "Kevin decided to pass up senior midfielder Johnny his freshman year and started Johnson connected on a penalty "Virginia is a great team," right out playing like a sopho­kick. The Irish couldn't answer gushes Grace, "But I was more or junior," says Grace,
-with a goal of their own, and pleased with the way we chal­who has high hopes for the when Dave Toural tallied for lenged them. A fr.eshman mis­former high school All­St. Louis with 5:10 left in the take cost us the first goal, and American who hails from !{arne, the Irish were doomed. we had to press a little bit in Connecticut. 
Visiting Japanese awed by Irish and American athletics 
.. 

The members of the Doshisha University 
While the trip was a good learning experience, llamhurgers stood in awe. Their wide-open and Greg the llamburgers aren't quite ready to play their trance-like eyes confirmed that this was the regular season in America. The average crowning jewel of a week to remember. Doshisha player weighs 158 pounds. I could
Guffey
The Hamburgers, a Japanese collegiate play the line both ways for this team. They may football team, capped more than a week of Assistant Sports Editor know judo, but not American collegiate football. American football training by watching Notre But the funny thing is that these people-who Dame practice Monday afternoon. They studied are so competitive and successful in the drills, sought autographs and took pictures "It was wonderful," Ichise said. "A lot of business world-don't care if they win on the with so many cameras that it was easy to see people envy us because we have this kind of field. Against the Quakers, the Hamburgers why Canon and Nikon are million-dollar opportunity. I'm sure we will not forget today. called a time out in the dosing seconds of the companies. Today was memorable and unforgettable." game as Earlham approached the goal-line. 
"This is very great," said defensive end Yasuo Irish head coach Lou Holtz was a gracious They didn't care if Earlham scored; they just llidaka, who sported a new "Batman" shirt. host to the Hamburgers, a nickname chosen by wanted to play longer. "This is not what it is like in Japan." lchise because he wanted it to represent some In the United States, pro and college sports 
The Hamburgers spent last week at Earlham part of American culture. Holtz signed dozens are big business. In Japan, sports are for fun College in Richmond, Ind., living, eating and of autographs, posed for as many pictures and and rPcreation. The Japanese don't live or die practicing with the players. They played an gave the Japanese players gifts to take home. with a football or basketball game. A business exhibition game Saturday against the Quakers "Their coach said it was the greatest time deal to buy France, maybe, but not a game. and lost 27-0. Earlham, an NCAA Division Ill their players ever had," Holtz said. "I've When talking about the seeming ineptitude of team, boasted a 1-8 record last season. coached in the Japan Bowl four different times, the Hamburgers, just remember the aftermath 
Akio Ichise, the coach of Doshisha, was a and they do a very nice job. Japanese people are of World War II. The Japanese were down and visiting professor at Earlham in the 1982-83 the most courteous people you'll ever meet." out with no apparent future. In just 45 years, year. He organized the week-long trip and then Notre Dame played in the Mirage Bowl in they have become a dominant economic country. capped it with the visit to the defending national Tokyo in 1979, beating Miami 40-15. Holtz So give the Japanese time to develop the game champions. They toured the campus, spent their didn't say if he would take his team-possibly and then dominate America. And if they can't savings at the bookstore and visited weight named the Notre Dame Yens-to Tokyo in the find their own team, they might just buy Notre machines bi er than themselves in Loftus. near future. Dame. 







