~ ~ ~---~------~-~--~­
' :0: I•Nifty Fifties
IACCENT: Gwendolyn Brooks ,'' Mostly sunny Thursday. , ~ Warmer with the high around 50. Clear Thursday night. Not as cool. Low 30
IVIEWPOINT: An invitation to Korea 
~ to35. Partly sunny Friday. 

VOL. XXII, NO. 10" 
Rey and 
By SARA MARLEY Senior Staff Reporter 
The ticket of Carolyn Rey and Tom King were victorious in the senior class officer run­off election and the ticket of John Coffey and Jennifer Swit­zer won in the sophomore class office run-off. 
Carolyn Rey, Tom King, Caroline Klein and Bob Groth received 668 votes, defeating the ticket of Rod West, Pat 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Coffey 
Eilers, Jennifer Trucano and Greg Talbot by a margin of 64 percent to 36 percent. The West ticket received 378 of the total votes. 
The Coffey ticket defeated Mike Ferguson, Ted Stumpf, Chrissy Harper and Julie Robertson by a margin of 58 percent to 42 percent. 
The Coffey ticket received 675 votes while the Ferguson ticket received 484 votes. 


The Observer I R.J. Coccia The Northeast Neighbors Housing Services is located on Notre Dame Ave. near student residences. 
House GOP elects 
Gingrich minority whip 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-House Republicans elected right-wing activist Newt Gingrich of Geor­gia to their No. 2 leadership post Wednesday and charted a course for battle with the ruling Democrats. 
Gingrich, the chief accuser of House Speaker Jim Wright and the publicity-hungry leader of a neo-conservative faction, declared he would "build a much more aggressive, ac­tivist party." 
"I'm going to be happiest when two Republicans are debating an issue on TV and there's no room for a Demo­crat," he said. 
Gingrich, 45, was elected minority whip over Rep. Ed­Republicans, who hold 174 t~. the 435 House seats. One Re­publican was absent and an­other voted for "other." 
The vote for Gingrich was widely taken as a rebuke of the low-key style of the current Re­publican leadership, and as reflecting a desire in the House GOP to concentrate more ef­fort on attacking the Democrats instead of working with them on legislation. 
"As whip, Newt's task will be to count votes, create con­sensus or piece together a majority for initiatives spon­sored by the Bush administra­tion," said Rep. Tony Coelho, the House Democratic whip. 
"That's a tough job under any circumstances, more so for someone who's stood apart 



w1n 1n 
In addition to Coffey and Switzer, Megan Weyers and Sean O'Neill will also serve as sophomore class officers for the next school year. 
"We're thrilled and excited and we can't wait to start next year," said Rey. "It's going to be a great senior year." 
"I'm glad the election is over. I want to congratulate Carolyn (Rey) on a fine cam­paign and election ,she deserves· 
run-off 
all the credit given to her,'' said West. 
"I think it was a fairly run campaign. I'm glad I ran, I believed I had something to of­fer. They haven't heard the last from me. I will still be involved in some way or another," West said. "It was a great race. Mike (Ferguson) ran a very good race. We're just happy that we 
won. We want to 
see REV, page 4 
NORTHEAST NEIGHBORS? 
Student housing district rezoned 
By KENDRA MORRILL Senior Staff Reporter 
Editors note: The foUowing is the first of a three part se­ries. 
While an ordinance rezon­ing the Northeast Neighbor­hood into a single-family res­idential area prohibits the establishment of group homes, or homes with more than two students, it may not decrease the number of stu­dent homes now for rent in that neighborhood, said Jim Roemer, director of commu­nity relations at Notre Dame. 
The ordinance, passed in October of 1988, limits the number of homes available to students to the present level. 
The Northeast Neighbor­hood presently houses over 800 students, said Roemer. 
A "grandfather" clause al­lows owners who now rent their homes to more than two individuals to continue ren­ting the homes as group residences indefinitely, Roemer stated. "(The grandfather clause) simply means everything they're doing now is okay but they can't do any more of it," he said. 
"No one is trying to cut back on students in the Northeast Neighborhood," Roemer said. "There never was and is not now a prohibi­tion on students." 
Only a part of the neighbor­
hood has been rezoned into "A" residential, The east­west streets of Corby and Sorin and the north-south streets of Eddy and Niles form very rough boundaries of the rezoned area, he said, but the area is not a perfect square. 
One or two students may rent any of the homes in the "A" residential area but 
see NORTHEAST, page 4 
thank 
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1989 

West I Eilers 
-36% 
Class of 1992 
~ ~58% ~mpf 
---42% 

Senate hears complaints over election 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Senior Staff Reporter 
Student senate called an emergency meeting Wednesday night to hear com­plaints concerning the validity of the March 20 Junior Class elections. 
The ticket of Romanelli, Faeher, Perkins and Butkovich filed a formal complaint to the senate saying that the election was invalid due to the "lack of a published slate of candidates in The Observer as called for by the constitu­tion and campaign rules." 
To confront the issue, senate called an emergency meeting and invited the Romanelli ticket supporters to present their points. Representatives of the Ombudsman committee, which runs the election, also attended the meeting. 
Before presenting their main point, the protesting group made allegations that members of the senate had already voiced opinions that expressed a premeditated negative vote. The group also asked that those members not vote on the issue. 
see SENATE, page 4 


ward Madigan of Illinois, 87-85 from the legislative process so Just a few examples of the artwork displayed at the Student Center. in a secret ballot of House often," he said. Annual Student Art Exhbit this week in LaFortune 
,. 
~~~--------------------------------------------------~~~~~~------IIIIIIIIGril•i§ill•ilii~lllllllll 
IN BRIEF 

Sister Miriam Jones, S.C., associate provost of the 
University of Notre Dame and the woman who oversaw 
its changeover to undergraduate coedu~ation, will !eave 
to become provincial of the Central Provmce of the Sisters 
of Charity in Cincinnati. She will return to her congrega­
tion's headquarters, Mount St. Joseph, on July.L She was 
recently elected spiritual director of a commumty of some 
200 religious women which she joined in .HJ~3. "Sister John 
and her gracious and forceful leadership m the move to 
coeducation in 1972 will forever be a part of the Notre 
Dame story," commente~Rev. E~~ard.A: Malloy! C.S.~., 
president of the University, and It Is difficult to Imagme 
the Provost's Office without her candor, her concern and 
her steadfast commitment." -The Observer 
A New Queen Azalea is being searched for after festival organizers took heat from local church members because their first choice, actress Julie McCullough, has appeared in Playboy. Miss McCullough, who plays Julie Costello on ABC's "Growing Pains," was a 1985 Playboy cover girl and also a Playmate of the Month. In addition, the Dallas native appeared in a photo feature on "Girls of Texas." The 55-church Wilmington Baptist Association opposed her selection. -Associated Press 
Actress Liv Ulmann is "resting comfortably" after an appendectomy at Massachusetts General Hospital. ~he had intense abdominal pain and was taken to the hospital where she had surgery on Tuesday. She is expected to return home in a few days. -Associated Press 
Michael Warren, who played on two NCAA champion­ship teams at UCLA and later starred in the "Hill Street Blues" television series, still has a special fondness for the Indiana high school basketball tournament. It's been a quarter-century since Warren left South Bend Central, and he will be in Indianapolis on Thursday as a member of the Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame's Silver Anniver­sary team. He and 11 other high school seniors of 1964 will be honored at the Hall's annual banquet at the Convention Center. Warren played Officer Bobby Hill on "Hill Street Blues." -Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
Entrepreneur opportunities with Network 2000 u.s. Sprint Fiber Network Telecommunications systems are available for sophomores, juniors, and seniors in the col­leges of Arts & Letters and Business. Interested students should attend an information meeting Tuesday, March 28, at 3:30p.m. in the Career and Placement Services' Con­ference Room. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
--=-.1-=n _ _ _ _ £~Y=-'-' ___
-~e-Obse..~~r--­
Design Editor . . .... .. . . .. .. ... Chris Labaree Design Assistant .. . . .. ... Beth Peterson Typesetters ......... Mark Derwent ........................................... Dan Towers News Editor.. ................ Kelley Tuthill Copy Editor ................... Janice O'Leary Sports Copy Editor ........ Molly Mahoney Viewpoint Copy Editor .. ....... Kim Skiles Accent Editor .. . .. ....... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor Michelle Berninger Accent Designer..... ........ Chris Labaree 
~:.~is·t·~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i:iia:~lk~::;::; 
ND Day Editor .... Margaret McCloskey SMC Day Editor .. .. ... Rozel Gatmartan 
ne 0111entr (USPS $99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday acept durifta exam ud vacation periods. ne o..n.is published by !be students of the University of Notre Dame udSaint Mary's Collqc. Subsaiptions may be purc:lw­ed for S40 per year (S2$ per semester) by writina ne Ollllner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, llllliana 46556. 
ne o..n. is a member of ne Mloda..,. Pre.. All reproduction riahts arc raened. 





'Have the guts to deviate from the norm' 
When I was young, I used to hate Good Friday for three reasons: my mother made me go to Mass on a day that wasn't Sunday, she made me act like a reasonable human being between the hours of twelve and three o'clock in the afternoon, and she served hot cross buns for breakfast. 
I have, I hope, matured slightly since then. Mass has become something more than a chore to be endured on Sunday mornings in uncom­fortable patent-leather shoes. I like to think I can behave myself for more than three isolated hours a year, and I finally came to the conclu­sion that if I don't like eating iced rolls with colored flecks in them I don't have to. 
These worries aside, I still find that Good Friday troubles me. 
Whether it's due to a surplus of religious en­thusiasm or to a lousy mood because I still have two full days of Lent to go, I tend to wake up on Good Friday with the conviction that man is basically shallow and self-serving. 
This is in direct contrast with my usual phi­losophy that humans are lovable in spite of their faults. Every Good Friday, without fail, I con­template the fact that we lovable humans turn our backs and run the other way when it turns out to be the easy thing to do. 
Peter, for example, was indignant at Jesus' probable betrayal at the hands of one of his fellow apostles, and horrified at the thought that he, one of the most devoted followers of all, would ever deny his connection with his beloved leader. Yet, when the going got rough, Peter could not handle the pressure. He was definitely the proverbial 'nice guy,' and a good man into the bargain, but he goofed. 
Most people would at least flinch if someone told them that the next time they acknowledged a friend they would be facing the very real pos­sibility of death. I know I would be slightly daunted at the idea. A lot of people whom I consider to be caring individuals who appreci­ate the value of a relationship would have done just what Peter did in that situation. In a frightening situation, values are thrown out the window, and often we behave in a manner that is untrue to ourselves. 
Pontius Pilate's Good Friday behavior was less than exemplary. While he protested that "this man has done nothing wrong," he ac­quiesced when his people continued to clamor for the release of Barabbas. No one likes being a champion for the underdogs in front of a screaming crowd, so the majority of people look the other way, pretending not to recognize what they know is wrong. 

When it comes down to it, who knows how many people in the crowd that followed Jesus as he struggled under the weight of his wooden cross would have liked to put a stop to the whole thing. Although my knowledge of the Bible is not what it could be, I don't recall ever reading about them. If they were there, they didn't make themselves known. They could see for themselves what would happen to someone who had the guts t9 deviate from the norm. 
This tendency was not just prevalent in the year 33 A.D. either. I see it every time I look around me. Few people are willing to make waves if it means encountering the disapproval of the group, no matter what it is they really think. It is far easier to retreat into their pro­tective shells and play it safe than to face the frightening possibility of being different. 
But in turning away we also end up creating pages in history that we are not necessarily proud of. I could cite countless examples, from incidents in my own past to those of greater significance, such as the suffering and death of Christ. I will be left to contemplate them all during my aimual Good Friday reflections. Per­haps if I were a better person, or at least a stronger one, I would take the time to stop and think more than once a year. 
Easter's on tts way 
This is the last issue of The Observer before break. The Observer will resume publishing on Wed., March 29. 
Add some excitement to your Senior Formal with Tuxedos from Louie's 
BLACK CLASSIC 
$32.50* 

DESIGNER BLACK TUXEDOS 
$49.95* 
Choose from: 
Christian Oior Pierre Cardin Yves Saint Laurent Robert Wagner 
Formal Peg Pants Designer Shirts & Vests 
~ 
University Park Mall 
272-2486 

*Does not include damage waiver fee or extra charge items. 
LAST YEAR 7.514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

. 's has I ' 
LOLIIe your stY e. 

Thursday, March 23, 1989 The Observer page 3 

Scholars say 'Last Supper' incorrect 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM-To Renaissance artist Leonardo da Vinci--and to many Christians since then-­Jesus Christ's Last Supper was a formal, seated gathering at a rectangular table. 
But scholars at a Bible re­search center say diners in Christ's era more likely reclined on floor cushions for festive meals, as the Romans did in that day. 
They also speculate that Judas, contrary to popular belief, may have had a place of honor at the last gathering of Christ and his apostles. 
"Religious art normally pic­tures the period of the artist, not the period of the Bible," said Jim Fleming of the Bibli­cal Resources Study Center. "With apologies to da Vinci, things probably looked differ­ent." 
During the Last Supper, com­memorated Thursday by most of the world's Christians, Christ broke bread and blessed wine with his closest disciples hours before he was turned over by Judas to Roman sol­diers and crucified. 
Relying on Bible verses, an­cient Jewish writings and Roman historical works, Fleming and his associates have concluded that the Last Supper probably was served at a low, U-shaped table that the Romans called a "triclinium." 
"Straw mattresses generally were placed around the out­side, and guests ate--and some­times slept--at the same place," Fleming said. 
The 45-year-old U.S.­educated Bible scholar who has done research in Israel for 15 years noted the early Greek versions of the New Testament describe Last Supper partici­pants as reclining. 
He said the Greek words "anekaito" and "anepesen," used in Matthew, Mark and Luke, were often translated as "sat" but actually mean "reclined." 
· Today, Christian pilgrims visit the Cenacle, a building on Mount Zion in Jerusalem where tradition has it the Last Supper was held. 
Fleming's group has built a Pilgrims' Center on the south­ern edge of Jerusalem where visitors can share a Passover feast while reclining around a stone triclinium. 
The menu, which is as close as the center can get to a Pass­over meal in Christ's day, typ­ically includes roast lamb, un­leavened bread, wine, baked eggs, nuts, and fruits such as grapes and figs. 


\•
' 



AP Photo

Up in smoke 
The Trident 2 nuclear missle launch failed as the the waters off the coast of Cape Canaveral, rocket veered out of control and self destructed in Florida. 


Study shows high toxin level 
.----~E THOMAS J.---. \ V lHITE CENTER WFORLAWAND 
--------~--~---­


GOVERNMENT 
Notre Dame Law School 
presents a lecture by 
DR. ERNST BENDA Professor of Constitutional Law at Freiburg University Former Chief Justice of the Federal Constitutional Court 
on 
"THE RIGHT OF PRIVACY IN THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY" 
12:15 Tuesday, March 28 Room 101 Law School 

SOPHOMORES 
~ 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-In a one-two punch on the state of America's air, government figures revealed Wednesday that 2.4 billion pounds of toxic chemi­cals are released annually while 100 million people live where other pollutants, chiefly from automobiles, exceed federal standards. 
The report on toxic sub­stances, poisonous materials released by chemical plants and other industries, is the first comprehensive look at them. Many have been linked to can­cer, birth defects, reproductive dysfunctions, neurological dis­orders and genetic mutations. 
Among the 328 individual and classes of chemicals surveyed were 60 government-identified cancer-causing agents; methyl isocyanate, the toxic gas that killed at least 3,400 people and injured some 20,000 in Bhopal, India, in December 1984; and phosgene, a nerve gas used in World War I. 
"The magnitude of this prob-




NDAVIAPTS. 
SPECIAL SUMME.R RATES 
Due to circumstances, Sophomore Sibs Weekend must be cancelled. We're very sorry and hope to have this event for next year. If you have any questions, please call 239-5225. Again, we are very sorry. 
lem far exceeds our worst fears," said Rep. Henry Wax­man, D-Calif., who released the preliminary Environmental Protection Agency figures for 1987 at a news conference with Reps. Mickey Leland, D­Texas; Jim Florio, D-N.J., and Gerry Sikorski, D-Minn. 
Waxman said the EPA "has broken commitment after com­mitment to deal with this prob­lem" during the 19-year life of the Clean Air Act, and all four lawmakers said they'll soon in­troduce legislation to force the EPA to control these emis­sions. 
Only seven of the substances are now regulated by the EPA, although a separate agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, has set standards for more than 400 toxics in the workplace. 
Donald Clay, EPA's top offi­cial on air quality issues, ack­nowleged that more should be done to protect against toxic pollutants but said the agency has been hamstrung in dealing with 320 separate chemicals one at a time under current law. 
''The idea of going down 320 (separate) rules ... is just too cumbersome" especially since in many cases industry can be expected to contest tighter re­strictions in the courts, Clay told reporters, adding that "some other approach is needed." 
He suggested, for example, dealing with the toxic emis­sions on a "source" basis in­stead of each chemical sepa­rately as required by the 1970 law that envisioned far fewer toxic chemicals . 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS 

Counselors: 21+, coed, sleepaway camp, Mass. Berkshires. WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, drama, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, judo, dance, photography, computers, nature, wilderness, model rocketry, guitar, yearbook, woodworking, AN, typist, 
Write: Camp Emerson, 
5 Bras~ie Ad, 
Eastchester, NY 10707 
or call914/779-9406 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
The Romanelli ticket pre­sented a signed affidavit which alleged that "four members of this quorum, namely Senior Class President, Tom Tisa, Stu­dent Body Treasurer, Michelle Zinser, Student Body Vice President, Mike Paese, and Student Body President, Tom Doyle, had already decided to vote against us..." Butkovich stated . that this had been al­luded to in an earlier conversa­tion with Paese Tuesday eve­ning concerning the issue of the validity of the election. 
Paese refuted the allegation, saying first that Doyle and Zinser were not voting mem­bers of senate, and then saying that any thoughts he had ex­pressed on the issue were opinions he was perfectly en­titled to. "These opinions," argued Paese, "are my right to express and should not influ­ence any votes if your argu­ments are valid." 
In response to the group's re­quest that the allegedly biased members of senate be dis­qualified from voting, the sen­ate voted unanimously against disqualifying them. 
Progressing to their original complaint, the ticket claimed that the Junior Class elections were invalid due to the OBUD committee not following the outlines set by the bylaws of the constitution. 
The bylaws state that"An of­ficial list of candidates will be 
posted  outside  the  Om­ 
budsman's  office  and  pub­ 
lished in The Observer."  

Michael Faehner, who spoke for the ticket, said that since the list was not submitted to or published by The Observer, "the election should be in­validated, as it violated the bylaws of the consititution." 
"We're not doing this for sour grapes reasons. We know we would have lost the election anyway. We're doing this for the principle of the thing." 
Faehner maintained that the oversight of the list of names 

B~Xompage1 
everybody who helped us out," said Coffey. "We're very excited and 
was unfair and asked for a recall of votes and a re­election. He pleaded to the sen­ate that "You owe it to students to show that when procedures exist, they should be followed." 
Victor DeFrancis, speaking for OBUD, questioned whether the omittance of the list of can­didates actually made a differ­ence in the outcome of the elec­tion. 
DeFrancis stated that no ticket had an unfair advantage due to OBUD's mistake, and that the election should not be held again. 
Senate then asked Faehner and the rest of the ticket ques­tions regarding the fairness of the situation and whether they or any other ticket had been disadvantaged by the OBUD oversight. 
Members of the senate ex­pressed the opinion that if the ticket was indeed protesting for "the principle of the thing," a re-election would not be neces­sary. It was held that an apol­ogy and an assurance of this mistake never happening again should be enough to fix the problem. 
Mter a brief recess, the Romanelli ticket reversed their position, saying they agreed that a recall was un­necessary, and said that they would accept an agreement 
that  the  problem  would  be  
prevented in the future.  
Senate  acknowledged  the  

mistake of OBUD, but decided that the mistake was not one which influenced the election or gave any candidate a partic­ular advantage or disadvan­tage and hence eliminated any need for a recall of votes. 
Senate then agreed that the OBUD committee should write a letter of explanation . 

Northeast 
continued from page 1 
three or more students may rent only those homes already designated as student residences, according to the new zoning ordinance. 
A landlord of a group home would have to discontinue ren­ting it as a group home for a full year before he would lose his right to rent it to more than two individuals, stated Roemer. 
According to Tom Doyle, stu­dent body president , any change in ownership of a stu­dent residence also makes the home a single-family residence, and landlords may decide to rent their homes only to single-families. 
"Frankly, I don't think we'd lose homes," he said. "The landlord is getting money; he'd be kind of crazy to give that up. He has a cash cow, and that's probably why he bought the home in the first place." 
Two key neighborhood or­ganizations, the Northeast Neighborhood Council and the Neighborhood Housing Ser­vice, wanted to stabilize the neighborhood, informed Roemer. 
Alonzo Watson, director of housing for South Bend and president of the NHS, and Renalda Robinson, vice presi­dent of the NHS, wrote a letter to Roemer asking for a Univer­sity opinion on the rezoning. 
Roemer said he immediately wrote to Father David Tyson, vice president of student af­fairs, with his recommendation 
in favor of the neighborhood stabilization at the present 
Hal~~}! lS~lrtt~d©l}f ~ r ~Uil a1~~~
c 

From, The Posse 

Northeast Neighborhood Rezoning 

group home level. 
"We knew there would be a student reaction, that students would see limitations being put on them," he said. "Students will think they should have as many student homes as they want. .. All those people (in the Northeast Neighborhood) have rights to set limits on their quality of life." 
"I feel the neighborhood is being fair. They want a healthy mix, ethnically and demographically," Roemer ex­plained. "I think the neighbor­hood has the right to say that, to make that determination." 
In a letter to Doyle, Roemer said that the neighbors and their associations acted in a very responsible fashion by as­king for an informal written referendum before the matter went into a series of public hearings. 
The ordinance was passed by the South Bend Common Coun­cil and signed by Mayor Joe Kernan. "I think it was a good piece of legislation,'' said Roemer. "It stabilized the amount of group homes that can exist in that one limited rezoning area." 
Join The Observer 

Summer 


STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW I683-19591 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS •APPROX 2lf2.MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST LITILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 
feeling very positive," said Switzer. "We're anxious to get 
rnie 1\yad oftlie J{eart s'Desire 
started." "We're all disappointed, of A retreat weekend directed by Father John Dunne, CSC 
course, but I'm sure they'll do a good job. We wish them the best of luck," Ferguson said. 
"It has been a difficult eve­ning, starting out with prob­lems with the Junior class. I 
WHEN: April 7-9, 1989 

want to congratulate all the winners. It's always extremely difficult for those who lose. Both candidates will do a great WHERE: Crowe House job," said Victor DeFrancis, a member of the executive com­mittee of OBUD which con­
CONTACT: Cantpus Ministry Office

ducts campus elections. 

239-5242 
STEAKS 

COST: $10.00 per person 
PRIME RIB 
.-~ SEAFOOD ~IC . ~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 

sign-up periods: 
March 27-31, 1989 



Lake Michigan (Badin Hall) 
OFFICE OF 
0MPUS 




MINISTRY I 
I 
I 
University of Notre Dame 1 Notre Dame, IN 46556 1 
Ubrory Concourse 219•239-6536 
I 
Bodin Hall 219•239-5242 ! 
219-259-9925 

......._...._..,_...._...,_..._.~~..-...-...._...._....-....-...._...._..~.._..~.._...._...._...._..,_..,_...._...._....-.c~,_...._., .....t~..-....-....-....-....-....-...._...-._.._...._..l 
-~------------------~---------~~~ 


Viewpoint

Thursday, March 23, 1989 page 5 
An introduction to the culture of Korea 

There is one thing that I have always wanted to do before I graduate from here: introduce my country to the Notre Dame community. My hometown is Seoul, Korea. When I say Korea, people generally will think about the little country which was on the news with picture of radical students throw­ing home-made bombs at police squads during the Summer Olympic games. Or they see a developing country invading the American economy with cheap electronic goods and cars. Even though some of these might be true, I would like to believe that this is not the "true" Korea, just like the KKK does not rep­resent America. I believe that a country should be known through its history, culture, and people. 
Chang-Hee Won 
guest column 
First some facts: Korea has about 44 million people, a per capita GNP of about 4000 U.S. dollars, and a 99 percent literacy rate. It is one of the fastest growing nations in the world. The major religion is Buddhism (8 million people), and there are other religious groups including Muslims (but as far as I know they haven't sent a hit man to get the author of The Satanic Verses), Protestants, Confucianists, and of course, Catholics (1.8 million 


GSU survey needs student response 
Dear Editor: 
Last week the Graduate Student Union Survey was distributed to all graduate departments by the Office of Advanced Studies. The purpose of the survey is to obtain input from graduate students to "provide GSU and Student Affairs with a clearer picture and a bet­ter understanding of (graduate stu­dent) interests, aspirations, and opinions concerning various services and opportunities offered to (graduate students) by the University of Notre Dame and by the GSU itself." 
We urge all graduate students to in­vest the 20 minutes it should take to complete the questionnaire and to people). 
Koreans are very independent, intel­ligent, and less emotional people. We didn't surrender to any invasions in our history, including the famous Mon­golians, and we kept one race and one language for five thousand years. Sometimes this "fierce" independence keeps us from uniting and working to­gether as one country. Koreans are gen­erally less emotional, or at least they do not show it as much. One probably wouldn't find too much hugging or kis­sing in Korea. This reminds me of an incident which happened in my fresh­man year at Notre Dame. While having dinner with my friends, I happened to say a swear word. One of the guys jokingly asked me if I kiss my mother with the same mouth. And the answer was no, because I do not kiss my mot­her. 
Our ethics are based on Confusian et­hics and this serves as the unwritten law. Naturally we have changed our ethics somewhat in the twentieth cen­tury. For example, we used to have a saying that in Korea a boy and a girl shouldn't even sit in the same room to­gether, if they are over seven years old. This is an old saying that we do not heed too often today. Even still, we have different views towards dating and marriages. It is not too difficult to find matchmakers or arranged mar­riages in Korea. Actually, this in an improvement from olden days, when 


P.O. 
return it (via campus mail) to the GSU office as soon as possible. It is our hope that the results from the survey will help the GSU to better serve the graduate student community in the fol­lowing years. We thank all graduate students in advance for their coopera­tion. 
Victor J. Krebs 
GSU President 
March 18, 1989 
NO students live on budgets too 
Dear Editor: 
In these days of student government elections, it seems strange and disap­pointing to me that one issue has es­caped mention: the issue of prices. I families used to "promise" the mar­riage to each other when the babies were born. One the other hand, some Confucian ethics such as emphasizing repect for older people are still very much observed. Thus, we have a polite form in the Korean language, to be used when talking to older people. This makes it harder for foreigners to learn Korean. 

Most Korean parents have a very strong desire for their children to "succeed" (this is a big word in Korean, and I am not sure what it means, but it probably does not mean to get booze, broads, and bucks). Thus they devote their lives to educating and nurturing them. This is the basic cause of the "hellish" high school years. If you think it is hard to get into an Amer­ican college, you should see what Korean high school students go through to get into a decent university. It is not' uncommon for a senior in high school to start the day a 6 a.m. and finish around midnight. And they do not take acoupleofhoursoff for a study break in between. Mter school, there are special classes for people trying to enter a uni­versity. Those students go to libraries or to so-called privately owned "read­ing rooms" for homework and individ­ual studying. One thing they get out of this kind of education is discipline and a strong will to make something out of themselves. In case you are wondering when these students have fun, the an-
Box Q 

have, sadly enough, gradually become accustomed to being ripped off if I want to buy anything at all here on campus. Don't the powers-that-be remember 
that  we  are  students  and  are  not  
making huge  amounts  of  money,  if  
any?  

The University has been very careful to retain a monopoly, and I'm really not at all surprised. If they won't allow outside competition to come in, however, they should at least try to keep their prices reasonable. At The Huddle, for example, the "general store" sells many things at about 80 percent over normal retail price (Pop Tarts at $1.90 rather than $1.09), and you are forced to pay a dollar for a cheeseburger that would normally be only 59 cents.The soft-drink vending machines are ridiculously priced at 60 swer is--in college. Korean college stu­dents party, date, and do whatever else for fun. They may even have less work tham some American college students. 
Korea does not have art works like Paris, architecture like Rome, or tombs like Egypt. If one is looking for impressive monuments, then he would be better off visiting Europe. Some time ago one of my friends asked what our ancestors did while the Egyptians built the Pyramids, the Chinese built the Great Wall, and the Italians built the Vatican. Even though I did not have an answer for this, I'm not ashamed that there is nothing comparable in Korea. One should note that there are two sides to these monuments. One is the obvious beauty, and the other is the suffering of the people that built them. I can't imaggine how many people suf­fered and were oppressed in order to build a palace such as Versailles. 
I could go on writing about customs, art, weather, etc., but I would like to conclude with an open invitation to my country. I hope one day you will have a chance to see my country for yourself. No, I am not getting paid by Korean tourist agencies to say this, but rather I happen to believe that Korea is one of the most beautiful and interesting countries in the world. 
Chang-Hee Won is a senior electrical engineering major. 
cents when you know they could still be making a profit at 30 cents, and the Hammes Bookstore goes without com­ment. 
All the other colleges and universities that I've visited seem to realize that we are students and, as such, are forced to live on tight budgets. 
Come on, administration, isn't the tuition bad enough? 
Chad Kerlin Cavanaugh Hall March 22 1989 

The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the briefer the piece, the greater its chances of reach­ing print. 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 

'Christianity does not remove you from the world and its problems; it makes you fit to live in it, triumphantly and usefully.' 
-Charles Templeton 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Editor-in-Chief ............. ....................... Chris Donnelly Business Manager ............................... Rich Iannelli Managing Editor .................................. Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .............................. Molly Killen Exec. News Editor ...................... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Design Manager ......... Shaonon Roach Viewpoint Editor .................................... Dave Bruner Production Manager ............................ Alison Cocks
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor ....•...................•.............. Theresa Kelly Systems Manager .............................. Mark Derwent 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Ma.-y·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor .....•......•.............................. John Blasi OTS Director ................................... Angela Bellanca
:he administration of either institution. The news is repoo1ed as accurately and objectively as 
Photo Editor .............•..................•............ Eric Bailey
pcss•ble. Unsigned editorials reprewnt the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commen!a:ies. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column sp;;r.e is 2-:a~able to ai~ members ol the community and the free expression of varying 
Founded November 3,1966
opinions on campus. :h;cugh letters. is encouraged. 


Accent 

page 6 Thursday, March 23, 1989 
PEN'D lets South Bend 
kids be authors for a day 

KYM MCARTHUR accent writer 

D 
espite the silly argu­ments of Notre Dame stu­dents over the character of our football team, some fans have remained unwaveringly loyal. In a creative writing contest sponsored by Pasquerilla East, even local fourth graders turned in several entries concerning Tony Rice and his team­mates. 
The Pasquerella East Notre Dame (PEN'D) creative writing contest, undertaken by section 7 A of P .E. Hall, was supported by hall fellows Father Himes, Dr. Lapsley, and Dean Gutting. P.E. resi­dent Susan Clements thought of the idea of PEN'D, and co-resident Helen Gilboy talked about it to The Obser­ver. The hall fellows, like the women of P.E., wanted to promote "section events with some kind of academic en­deavor." A letter was then sent to South Bend fourth grade classes; 17 rooms from 14 schools responded. 
Teachers were asked to commit by Nov. 25; entries were required by Jan. 27; and judging was completed in February. Out of 280 entries, 22 finalists were selected, based on first impression, style, and creativity. Any type of original work was ac­cepted, including short stories, poetry, and fantasy. 
Both parents and teachers expressed approval of 
The kids were excited just to be at a college and to meet college students. 
PEN'D. As Helen Gilboy said, adults are "always trying to encourage children to write. Sometimes it's hard to get them motivated." Obviously, the prizes offered by PEN'D provided sufficient inspiration for the children. 
The 22 finalists were awarded trophies and certif­icates of "Highest Honor," and all participants received certificates of "Honor." Addi­tionally, a reception was given for finalists and their parents and teachers. Gilboy recalled, "When they (the 
The ObMrvet:tAatt Mlttlno Pulitzer Prize winner Gwendolyn Brooks brought her poetry to St. Mary's College on Wednesday night. 
WVFI 


AM 64 
Top 10 Albums 
March 13-March 18, 1989 As compiled from D.J. playlists 
1. 
The Replacements, "Don't Tell A Soul" 

2. 
Elvis Costello, "Spike" 

3. 
Violent Femmes, "3'' 

4. 
Guadalcanat Diary, "Flip Flop" 

5. 
Throwing Muses, "Hunkpapa" 

6. 
New Order, ''Technique" 

7. 
Donner Party, "Donner Party" 

8. 
Love Tractor, 'Themes from Venus" 

9. 
XTC, "Oranges and Lemons" 

10. 
The Fall, "I am Kurious Oranj" 


winners) found out they were 22 out of 280, you could see their eyes light up... the kids were excited just to be at a college and to meet college students." 
A booklet was put together of all the winning entries. En­titled "Ideas PEN'D," it con­tains such memorable ma­terial as a Haiku poem, "Winter Snow," by Xavier O'Neal. O'Neal wrote, "The cold winter snow/as gentle as a kittentapping on my face." 
The learning experience went both ways during PEN'D. The women of section 7 A wanted to do something to reach out to the South Bend community. Everyone in­volved agrees that PEN'D has made a difference, so much, in fact, that people are talking about keeping it as a tradition. 
The most difficult part of the contest for the judges was remembering the level of writing possible in fourth grade and comparing the entries accordingly. Cle­ments, in an interview by local television, confirmed the group attitude: "We had a lot of fun doing it...we forgot what a wonderful age that is." 

The Observei"JErln Cusack Jason Tarkington was one of the contestants In the creative writing contest for grade school children sponsored by P.E. 
Brooks shares renovvned poetry vvith ND/SMC 
CINDY PETRITES accent writer 
\AI hen Gwendolyn Brooks 
VVrecites poetry, people lis­ten. She bellows, whispers, croons. Her voice dips way down low, lingers long over some words, floats over others. It is deep and scratchy and hoarse like you would expect the voice of a 71-year-old woman to be. What is unexpected is what Brooks has to say. 
"Sit down. Inhale. Exhale. The gun will wait. The lake will wait." Brooks delivered the opening words of her poem, "To the Young Who Want to Die," to a captivated audience at O'Laughlin Auditorium last night as she fulfilled her promise to "in­volve them with love, light, lunacy, and lots and lots of laceration." Her opening words to the audience: "Tell the truth as you know it. Re­member that poetry is life distilled, and life is not al­ways happy." 
The Illinois Poet Laureate has been following her own advice for 64 years. She began writing at the age of seven, inspired by her par­ents to "put pen to paper and 
Calvin and Hobbes 

WAAT A.QE 'iOIJ So MAD f.S:>UT OJIC~! GO \-\OM£. Al-\0 GET II. iOU FORGO\ IT 
AA't'Nk'{? CX1JU)NT '!OJ miD W>-~ Rl": 'NJ CAN Mr«.E IT ENT/KfLYl't'l>.tL WI: &\JGS '!00 ~rn;e> PACK \3£.\=bR~ TI\E SGIOOL ~ iOJR IKSECT (ljj£C.i\ot{ :' B\Js Cek<\ES .' 1-\\lRRi ! R\J~! 
make magic." She published her first poem at the age of 11, and in 1950, became the first black author to win the Pulitzer Prize, which she won for her book of poems, "Annie Allen." 
Her poems include protests against apartheid and des­criptions of cows seen outside an Amtrak train window, though she admits people are her favorite subject. "I'm a people poet," she says. 
Brooks writes from her own experience about things she feels strongly--racism, op­pression, poverty, discrimina­tion, and although her charac­ters are mostly black, her poems cut across racial boundaries. In 1967, she told an interviewer, "Blacks are just like other people; they have the same hates and loves and fears, the same tragedies and triumphs and deaths, as people of any race or religion or nationality." 
Now in her 70s, Brooks has published more than 15 books of poetry, an autobiography ("Report for Part One"), a children's book ("The Tiger Who Wore White Gloves"), and one novel ("Maud Martha"). Her latest collec­tion is "Gottschalk and the Grand Tarantelle," which in­cludes the poem "Winnie," a major work devoted to Winnie Mandela, the wife of the jailed South African civil rights leader, Nelson Man­dela. 
According to critic James 
N. Johnson, while Brooks writes of "the solemn hungers and hellish silences" of the ghetto, and the oppression of blacks in South Africa, she does not preach, but "simply observes, with quiet and merciless accuracy." Johnson described her objectivity as "detached compassion," a quality which comes through in "We Real Cool," a poem about young pool players in the Chicago ghetto. 
Brooks' often bleak subjects are punctuated by a refresh­ing hope in the future genera­tion, a hope which inspired the poet to write such poems as "Near-Johannesburg Boy," and to participate in St. Mary's "Gathering Voices" series exploring cultural diversification. Last night, in the closing lines of her poem, "To the Young Who Want to Die," Brooks captured this message of hope in today's youth: "Remember green's your color. You are Spring." 
Bill Watterson 

Thursday, March 23, 1989 
Nobody wants embroiled batting champion Boggs 
Associated Press 
WINTER HAVEN, Fla.-­Nobody wants baseball's best hitter. 
Boston Red Sox general manager Lou Gorman said Wednesday he is trying to trade five-time batting champion Wade Boggs, but that no other team wants to make a deal. 
"Maybe they feel they'll break us down," Gorman said after he spent virtually the entire day on the tele­phone attempting to trade Boggs. 
Red Sox co-owner Haywood Sullivan decided to try to trade Boggs after the third baseman taped a tele­vision interview with Bar­bara Walters for ABC's "20­20," team sources said. 
Boston officials have denied pressuring Boggs not to do the interview, which focuses on his four-year af­fair with Margo Adams, who detailed the relationship in two issues of Penthouse magazine. Club officials said privately that the Wal­ters' interview made them decide to pursue a trade. 
Proposed trades were said to involve the New York Mets, New York Yankees Kansas City Royals, Hous: ton Astros, Seattle Mariners and San Diego Padres. All were either turned down or denied. 
"All trades are a possibil­ity," Gorman said. "They're there, but they're not there. You can talk to doomsday and still not be able to do it. 
"If things stay as they are, there will be no trade. But we'll keep talking. I started out talking to about seven clubs and now I'm down to about four." 
Complicating any trade for Boggs, a .356lifetime hit­ter, is his contract status. He is signed for 1989 at $1.75 mil­lion and is ellgible for free agency following the season. Any club trading for Boggs presumably would want to sign him to a multiyear deal before making a trade. 
Joe Mcilvaine, Mets' vice president for baseball opera­tions, said he rejected Bos­ton's proposal to send Boggs to New York for left-bander Sid Fernandez and infielder Howard Johnson. 
"It's hard to say no to a player like Boggs, but I told Lou I don't think it would work too well for us .'' 
The Observer page 7 
-
Irish softball team faces stiff challenges over Easter break 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The women's softball team (4-4) faces an important test over the next five days as it takes on three challenging teams. 
The Easter break will begin with a doubleheader against St. Joseph's of Rensselaer today, which will be the home opener for the Irish if the weather cooperates. 
But the big games for the team will be against Dayton on Saturday March 25, also at home, and a game on the road against Butler on March 27. Both of these teams are in the Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence with Notre Dame. 
"Dayton is a very good team, but we're not going to back away," said Head Coach Brian Boulac. "We hope to be com­petitive, and of course we'd like to win." 
All of the weekend's games will be a measure of the team's talent. Earlier in the season, Notre Dame defeated Evansville, last year's runner­up in the MCC, but Boulac says that one game is not an accu­rate yardstick. 
"We might have caught Evansville off guard," he said. 

''These games will be a good taste to see where we. really are." 
So far, Coach Boulac and Co­ach Joe Speybroek have been impressed with what they've seen. The four losses have been to quality teams, and the pitchers have been solid, espe­cially freshman Missy Linn. Linn, who is scheduled to start against St. Joseph's, has col lected all of the Irish wins for a 4-1 record and a 2.36 ERA. 
The problem for Notre Dame, as with most teams recently promoted to varsity status, has been lack of depth, according to Boulac. The team will need more pitching and 
· better hitting to compete on the Division I level. "We have good kids, and they work hard, but we've got to build," Boulac said. 
The Irish have been working harder on defensive skills recently because of errors that have cost games for the team. The errors have resulted in big innings for the other teams. 
Offensively, the team has been fairly effective. Clean-up hitter Rachel Crossen is bat­ting .450, and sophomore Megan Fay has a .381 average and has scored five runs. 
Senior Dawn Boulac leads the team with five runs batted in. 
The Irish have had several 
games  cancelled due  to  bad  
conditions,  including  a  
doubleheader  scheduled  ini­ 
tially for March 17, and  res­ 

cheduled for March 22. The games will be made up at a later date. 
"At this point we're just anx­ious to get some games in," Speybroek said. "We've been practicing since January 16th." 
Both coaches are optimistic about the team's chances to do well over the Easter break. 
"We've played St. Joseph's as a club for the last couple of years, and we've been com­petetive with them," Boulac noted. "Dayton and Butler have established programs and I don't know how we'll com­pare. I saw Butler, and I think we can play with them." 
Boulac added that he would like to give Linn more support and get senior pitcher Barb Mooney "back to status." Mooney has an 0-3 record despite a 2.28 ERA. 
The games against St. Joseph's will begin at 3:30 at Alumni Field. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
\ NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH II Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walkrng distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 
Wordprocesslng-Typing 272-8827 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Local Not-For-Profit Organization has Openings for Qualified Persons in our Residential Homes. Residential Assis­tants-Substitutes Provides care and treat· men! for Developmentally Disabled adults. Ftexrble work schedules. Valid Driver's License and Transportation needed. Full-time, Part-time, and Sub· stitutes. Reply to: LOGAN 1235 N. Eddy, 
P.O. Box 1049, South Bend, IN. 46624. 289·4831 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TRI· MILITARY FORMAL!' call BRET x1389 
LOST LOST LOST BUILDING STRUC· TURES TEXTBOOK GREY AND WHITE COVER HARDBOUND PLEASE CALL TERRY X2706 I REALLY NEED THIS BOOK!!! 
LOST: set of 3 keys on brass class of 1987 key chain please call Betsy 284· 4294 if found 
LOST IN ALUMNI HALL AT IRISH WAKE: small black purse wrth embroidered flowers. Keys insrde # 224. no ID. PLEASE call 4228 at ND. 
Lost: an ID case so"lewhere between LaFortune and the S, Louis St. block party on St. Pat's day. 'eep the money but please return the li<. 'nse and key. Call X4421 or drop at PE. The roon no. is on the key 
LOST: Medium blue rectangular suit· case during Spring Break. If any In· formation, call 309-837-7567 or 309­837-1479 and ask for Mary Beth. Reward & wilt pick up. 
LOST: GOLD SIGNET (DMK) RING AT OR NEAR SENIOR BAR THURSDAY. MAR. 16. PLEASE CALL DAWN 284· 4349. 
LOST black, stylish Ray-Bans in Senror Bar Sat. 3't 8. Not only were they expen­sive, but they were a gift from my room· mates giving them high sentimental value. Please call Colleen 2682 or Mary 1704. 
LOST BLUE POLO JACKET AT CCE BUILDING SAT. 3'18. PLEASE CALL, I NEED MY KEYS' THANKS. 284-4349. 
LOST a set of keys on St. Pat's night between Senior Bar and PE. DESCRIP­TION: bronze colored. rnetal and leather material, design was a "D" with Mickey Mouse on it, room key. car keys, and luggage key call Debbie x4514. 
LOST: Long grayisMllack Cassidy coat with speckled colors. Lost on Saturday the 18th. Contains ID and other vatu· abies. REWARD offered. Call Sara at 4825. 
LOST: Black suede San Francisco Bay hat with brown leather trim. Lost Saturday 18th. Very recognizable. REWARD of­fered. Call Sara at 4825. 
Lost: Brown leather jacket at NAZZ. Last name MRUZ in back. Please call Usa x1338. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished ROOMS·S12Gmo; 2 BDRM HOME-$2Bomo, 3 blocks from campus 272-6306 
Anyone wanting to rent a Turtle Creek Apartment during the summer months contact Usa at # 4886. 
GRAD STUDENTS, 3 BD. FURN. HOUSE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS, SECUR­ITY CONSCIOUS. CALL 289-8539. 
WANTED 
NEED BABYSITTER ON SATURDAYS FOR 15 MO. OLI:'. TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED. PLEASE CALL 271-8564. 
WANTED PEOPLE INTERESTED IN PROMOT­ING CULTURAL AWARENESS AT NOTRE DAME 
Apply in Student Activities Office TODAY Multicuijural Executive Council 
CAMP MILLHOUSE NEEDS WATERFRONT, NATURALIST, FINE ARTS, MALE COUNSELORS. ROOM, BOARD, INSURANCE, TIME OFF, COMPETITIVE PAY. JUNE 9· AUGUST 19. LEA 234-1169. 
FOR SALE 
Nakamichi 2Head Tapedeck-$200 In­finity 2Way,100W Speakers-$180 Tos­hiba Compact Disk Player-$85 Teac 5Band Equalizer-$30 Call # 1667, 7­9pm. 
Can you buy Jeeps, Cars, 4 X 4's Seized In drug raids for under $100.00? Call for facts today. 606-837­3401, Ext. 881. 
GOVERNMENT HOMES! From $1.00 (U Repair). Foreclosures, Repos, Tax Delinquent Properties. Now Selling This Area! Call (Refundable 1-315-733· 6064 Ext G2382H For Current Listings! 
1979 CHEVY IMPALA, AUTOMATIC, AIRCO NDITION, 55000 MILES, $1800 OR BEST PRICE, CONTACT 239-6705, 272-9880. 
TICKETS 
I need Grad. tix 288·4160 
PERSONALS 
hi ag 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANOWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN$' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·8D0-343-8373 
ADOPTION· Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new~ born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877. 3574 
Scapi!! (Use it) 
ADOPT: Happily married, professional couple wishes to provide wonderful 
home, secure future, much love for 
white newborn. Legal. Expenses paid. Call us collect 212-517·2696. 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­standing brothe..Sister sports camps on largest lake In New England near "ON GOLDEN POND" site seek staff. ALL TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: Roblndel (girls) 215-884-3326, Wlnaukee (boys) 203·227-4387 or see us on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 AM-2PM at LaFortune. 
································································ 
Ramada Inn of Elkharl has rooms lor Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581. 
Help!!! I need a ride to Pittsburgh (PA Turnpike 6) on 3-29 or 3-30. VERY im­portant!! Will help with gas and toll. Mike 4141 
RIDER NEEDED to Purdue leaving Thurs. afternoon. Call X2891. 
Z BALLS WEEK Warning: It has been noted that Z Balls bears an uncanny resemblance to the Easter Bun­ny. Call 3410 & tell him you won't be wanting any chocolate creams this year. 
HOPING TO ADOPT We're a happily married, financially secure couple with a beautiful home and lots of love to share with much­wanted baby. If you are pregnant and considering placing your baby lor adoption, please call us. We can help you, and you can help us make our lives complete. Expenses paid. Con­fidential, legal. Call Deborah and David collect day or night at 312935­4088, or call our counselor collect at 31 2a80-8744. 
Make this Easter most unique, when the Easter Bunny hops down your street! per­sonalized deliveries, 255-3355. 
GET READY, THE FISHER HALL REGATTA IS COMING SOON. IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO COMPETE IN THIS YEAR'S HOMEMADE BOAT RACE CONTACT YOUR HALL PRES. 
MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUN­
CIL 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 29 
Pick up application in Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFort 
MMUL TICUL TURALCOUNCILMU­LTICUL TURALCO UNCILMUL TICUL­TURALCOUNCILMULTICULTU 
HAVE A BALL AT 
THE CHARITY BALL 
Fri., March 31 
THE CHARITY BALL Fri. March 31 8:30-1:30 South Dining Hall wrth IN GINO and THE GROOVE TIX: Lafortune Info. Desk or SMC Dining Hall and dorms Semi Formal 
LOCAL SWIMMING POOL COMPANY HAS OPENINGS FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE WORK, GREAT EARNING POTENTIAL. CALL SERGIO'S SUNGOD POOLS, 287-9283 FOR APPT 
To the person whose car I backed into on March 17 call Bill x 2346 
Anyone going to INDIANAPOLIS for Easter Break, I need a ride, will pay gas, expenses. Call Colleen at x3764. 
GET THE CAREER EDGE! Understand to day's economic superpower. Register for JAPANESE language stuy at ND this summer' WE ARE! L. M. & S. H. 
Ya little punk, I can't move in any more! 
You're so pretty--you have lovely hair! 

C'mon Cliff-we're goin' up the road. It's like huntin' .... 
YOU DON'T LIKE MEl 
HI again, AG. 
To Jesus Heidi: HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY! 
Love, Stal 
Bass player looking for ANYONE to play serious R&BofUNK. Will jam ANYTIME. Call John A. 1803 
ATTENTION IRISH PARTIERS! I lost my key at St. Andrew's church on Fri nile. Do you have it? PLEEEEEASE call 2866. THANX 
I SURVIVED ST. PATS DAY 89 
Mugs still available! If interested, call Stacy X4972 or stop by Knott Hall 
To the guy who went to the 12th Floor with me Tuesday around 2:15 Want to meet again sometime? 
. ................................................. KEITH EBNER IS 22 TODAY!! To the best big brother a girl could ever ask lor, Happy 8-day!! Love, Leanne 
Vicky, Sorry ! behaved like such a jerk last weekend. I'll make it up to you at the CHARITY BALL. 
Don 
I NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS lor Easter, If you're going please call Paul at 3610 
MARCH 27 HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, MOLLIE MEEHAN' I LOVE YOU! 
LOVE, KERRY 
WANTED: ROOMMATE FOR CAMPUS· VIEW OR SOMEONE THAT NEEDS A ROOMMATE. MARY 284-4152. 
..................................... SMC MANAGEMENT CLUB PRESENTS DOUG MOSELL "THE ART OF LEADERSHIP" MARCH 29 HAGGAR PARLOR, 6 PM 
Beth Healy: Happy Easter to one of my favorite people. 
Somebunny Who Loves You 
P-Kin, let's forget all this silliness and start having fun!!l Te Amo, Angel. HEY!!! I love you!!! (get the idea?) Love, T-Bear 
Saturday is TIM O'KEEFE'S 21st b-day. Call him at x2284 a~d wish him a happy one. 
LAURIE AND MARC A PLETHORA OF HAPPY BIRTHDAY WISHES TO TWO VERY SPECIAL BUGS! WE LOVE YOU, THE HAIRY BUGS 
DESPERATELY SEEKING DRUMMER FOR BAND NO METAL CALlx1749 
K.A.M.. you're one hot babe. Thanks for all the fun we've had during the last 6 months. Love Ya. URN 
.................... ..................... Thank you Sacred Heart of Jesus, Blessed Mother. Saint Jude, and Saint Joseph for prayers answered. 
The states of New York, New Jersey, Michigan, and Massachusetts are IN STEP 
Trina, Just thought I would say Hello! love, Mark 
CLUB DANKIS!!! CLUB DANKIS!!! CLUB DANKIS!I! 
Pinch me, I think I'm dreaming . 
JACK SECRET Shyness Is nice, and shyness can stop you from doing all the things 
In llle you'd like to. So If there Is something you'd like to try, ask me I won't say no, how could I? 
Dairy Queen 
Ice Cream Fag 
Yogurt Wench 
Infamous Quotes from the Post St. Pat­ty's Day Dance: 1. Heaven's dead, Hell's happening, Umbo's raging 2.1 think you been cheating me; that's okay, I been cheating you too 3.John, hold the lort, you're trustworlhy 4.Has any one seen Matt? S.She was putting away tequila like a sponge 6.You're THIS close to getting thrown out a window 7.Attention K-Mart shoppers: Hell will be closing in 5 min8.Dame Des­hita!9.Unnh...huh.. aahuh 10.Come on Gracia, there are plenty of sin gle guys here! 11.1 have no com plaints 
To the Freshman of Stanford Hall: Thanks for making Saturday's dance worth the work, and a huge success. 
-John and Matt 
DEAR ROOMIES: We all have different things to do over break, but I hope we can have fun while we're at it!! Happy Easter Sandy, Rose & Mimr'! Love, rozel 
KATE FENNER YOU'RE WELCOME LOVE, EVERYONE 


------------------------------~------­
-page a The Observer Men's track hosts invitational 
Five-team field to participate in only Irish home meet 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY Sports Writer 
Not going home for Easter break? Looking for a little Holy Week excitement? The Irish men's track team promises to provide just that when they host the Notre Dame Invita­tional this Saturday at the Meyo Track and Cartier Field. The first event in this non­scoring meet is scheduled to be held at 10 a.m. 
Competing in the Invitational will be teams from the Univer­sity of Detroit, Western Mic­higan University, Lewis Uni­versity, South Western Michigan University and, of course, Notre Dame. 
''This will be sort of a low-key meet," said Irish assistant co­ach Tim Connelly. "It will give a lot of people a chance to run." 
In other words, the events will be scored on an individual basis and no team placing scores will be kept. 
This meet will mark the opening and the only home ap­pearance of Notre Dame's out­door season. The indoor season came to a close two weeks ago with a fine Irish performance at the IC4A meet. Notre Dame tied for fourth place in that meet with 34 points. Turning in winning performances for the Irish were freshman Raghib Is­mail in the 55-meter dash, senior co-captain Ron Markezich in the 5000 meters and Dan Garrett in the 3000 meters. 
However, because of the resurfacing of the Krause Stadium track the outdoor opening of the running events will actually be held inside. While the running will be done at the Meyo Track, the throw­ing events will be held outdoors at Cartier Field. 
"Western Michigan tradi­tionally has a good quarter­mile team," said Irish head co­ach Joe Piane. 
Representing Notre Dame in that race will be sophomore 
Richard  Culp  and  junior  co­ 
captain Yan Searcy .  
"The  hurdles  should  be  

pretty good, too," said Piane. "Western Michigan and South Western Michigan are usually very strong in that event." 
The Notre Dame women's track team will not run on Sat­urday, as the Invitational is strictly a men's meet. The wo­men will bring their new dual status--both varsity and club-­to compete in their first meet with the men at Purdue on Sat­urday, April 1. 
Thursday, March 23, 1989 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Rockne Memorial has announced hours for Easter break. Today, the building will be open from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., the pool from 7 to 9 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. to 5:30p.m. and the weight room from 3 to 6 p.m. On Friday, March 24, the building will be open from 7 a.m. to 5:30p.m., the pool from 7 to 9 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. to 5:30p.m. and the weight room from noon to 3 p.m. On Saturday, March 25, the building is open from noon to 5:30 p.m. and the pool from 1 to 5:30 p.m. The weight room will be closed. The entire building is closed Easter Sunday. On Monday, March 27, the building is open from 7 to 9 a.m., the pool from 7 to 9 a.m., 11:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. and 8 to 11 p.m. and the weight room from noon to 3:30p.m. The normal schedule resumes Tuesday, March 28. -The Observer 
-· 

Rolf's Aquatic Center will be closed Friday, March 24, to Monday, March 27 for repairs. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Ellis 
continued from page 12 
scorers in Division I this season, bettered the freshman scoring mark of 29.4 set by Aus­tin Peay's Fly Williams in 1973. The best scoring mark for each college class is now held by an LSU player as Pete Maravich set the mark for sophomore, 
Murphy 
continued from page 12 
freshman pitchers that should be good," said Murphy. "They've got a bunch of returners, too. We should be a better team but that doesn't mean we're going to win the games." 
Butler is just starting its season and currently has a 1-3 record. However, the Irish will be facing them at an opportune time. The Bulldogs will have played four games in two days prior to the doubleheader with the Irish. 
Butler played two games with Indiana on Tuesday, drop­ping both, 8-3 and 5-3. Wednes­day the team played a doubleheader with Miami (Ohio). Today they have to come home and face a fresh Irish team. 


junior and senior seasons, averaging 44.2 points over the three seasons. 
Jackson's trademark has be­come his powerful crossover dribble that usually sets him for one of his smooth jump shots or allows him to find an NCAA-best 5.0 shots per game. 
Owens was overshadowed in the Big East by Mourning but 
The Bulldogs are led by junior shortstop JohnNies, who led the team in batting average last season with a .311 percentage. First baseman Rafhael Coffee also had an out­standing year, hitting .304. 
Notre Dame's record against he managed to average 12.4 points and 6.9 rebounds for the Orangemen, who lost to the Hoyas in the conference cham­pionship game. Owens, a 6-8 forward, shot 52 percent from the field while handing out 108 assists. 
MacLean, also 6-10, was con­sidered the key recruit for first­year UCLA coach Jim Harrick. 
Butler last season was 3-0, in­cluding an 11-6 comeback vic­tory in the first round of the MCC tournament in which the Irish score eight runs in the 
eighth  inning,  including  a  
grand  slam  by  senior  Chris  
Flynn.  



is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor 
For more information, call Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. 
Don't cry, Tommy! Now you're 21 like Georgie! 
Happy Birthday PINK! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Meg, Katie, Kevin, Brendan 
Northwestern University Summer Session '89 Think or swim. 
2003 Sheridan Road Evanston, llUnois 6o208-2650 
Save me a seat. Send me a free copy of the Summer Session '89 catalog with financial aid and registration information (available mid-March). 


Marty Sullivan NICE VACATION 


Name  
Why settle for a grain of truth when you can have the whole beach? Mail this coupon, or call1-800-FINDs-NU; in illinois, (312) 491:4114.  School Address City Home Address City  Slate Slate  Zip Zip  

Thursday, March 23, 1989 The Observer page 9 
ND lacrosse hampered by InJUries, departures 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will open its home schedule Saturday, March 25 against the University of Hartford without the services of junior starting attackman Dave Carey. 
Carey, the team's third leading scorer with four goals and an assist, could miss the rest of the season with torn ligaments in his right knee. He was injured during the fourth quarter of last Sunday's win over Lehigh. 
"I was coming around the back of the net and going towards the goal when I started to fall forwards," Carey said. "I got hit and then my knee was twisted under my body." 
Carey faces two weeks in a brace and then two weeks of rehabilitation. The Irish end the season March 26 and 29 in crucial games at Michigan State and Ohio State and Carey said he "hopefully can make it back this year, but it doesn't look good." 
Irish head coach Kevin Cor­rigan said that junior Rob Lynn will move into the starting lineup against Hartford while freshman Mike Sullivan will switch from midfield to attack. Sullivan joins sophomore Mike Sennett as the only reserve at­tackmen on the Irish squad. 
The Irish will face off against Hartford at 1:30 p.m. Saturday, with the game scheduled for either Edward J. "Moose" Krause Stadium or Loftus Sports Center, depending on the weather. 
Corrigan said that Carey and fellow starters John Olmstead and Brian McHugh had developed a rhythm that will be difficult replace. 
"There are some things we'll have to overcome with Dave out, and everybody will have to pick up the slack," Corrigan said. 
"But Rob Lynn has played well all along for us and I think he'll step in and do a good job," he continued. "Mike Sullivan will give us some speed at at­tack that we didn't have. And Mike Sennett is going to have to pick up his game too, al­though we can't push him." 
Corrigan said that the overall team intensity will be a key fac­tor against Hartford. 
"Our intensity level is not where it should be and, if we don't get it back, we'll have problems," he said. 
"Also, we can't 'worry about Notre Dame' this week and 

•
'~ "111111\ 

Dave Carey 
begin to play our game. That means getting ground balls and pushing the ball up the field. And we've got to start putting the ball in the goal when we have the chances." 
Hartford played their first game yesterday after cancell­ing earlier games due to a measles epidemic similar to the one recently at Siena Col­lege. But despite not knowing much about the opposition, Corrigan said he expects an­other challenge for his young squad. 

lletrft;  Flight  
continued from page 12  
lla.~e alf a«JUO/ffe  University and especially the cheerleaders) and the inep­ 
titude of the agents that caused  
19tlt.l  us to miss our connecting flight and come very close to not  
going to Providence at all.  
But it paid off to be rude when  
he was waited on first and con­ 
sequently he made the 6:30  
United flight to Chicago. Amer­ 
ican refused to write us over  
on the same United flight, and  
by the time we got the travel  
agent to do it for us, that plane  
had been filled, too.  
Soon after, as I struggled to  
~S Visiting Scholar Series AT&T COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETIERS . Rosemary Radford Ruether Women in the Church: What is the problem? sponsored by Gender Studies Program Tuesday March 28, 1989 4 p.m. -Annenbergg Auditorium co-sponsored by the Department of History The AT&T Visiting Scholar Series is made possible by a grant from the AT&T Foundation, and organized by the College of Arts and Letters, University of Notre Dame.  

"I expect Hartford to be an­other good competitive game. We've got a competitive schedule and every game so far has been as competitive as we anticipated," he said. 
At the beginning of the season it appeared the Irish at­tack would be one of the team's deepest positions, boasting seven veteran players. 
But senior Mark Healy and sophomore Mark Brady have since left the University while Sennett is still being used sparingly due to back prob­lems. And when Carey went out, the Irish were forced to move Sullivan up to the attack. 
Carey noted the irony in the fact that graduate Jeff Shay suffered a season-ending in­jury almost a year ago. Carey moved into the starting lineup 
keep my temper back at the American desk, they found that the next flight to Providence had 30 seats left on it, but they couldn't make reservations for us, we'd have to take our chances on standby. 
We got on a 9:20 American flight to Chicago and checked at the desk for the second flight to Providence. The agent then told us that the same plane that was under booked at 6:00 in the morning was overbooked by nine people, and that the next flight to Providence was at 9:30 p.m. 
But fortunately, the Ameri­can Airlines people in South Bend had finally done someth­ing good, and had somehow found the goodness in their fine hearts and booked us on that flight. 
So we had a pleasant wait in O'Hare for about three hours before boarding the flight to Providence. Then the Ameri­can crew was late because of bad weather in Grand Rapids, Mich., and by the time we had a crew, the bad weather had hit Chicago and they closed O'Hare to outbound flights. 
for Shay following that April 2 injury and he went on to finish fifth in scoring for the Irish with nine goals and seven as­sists. 
"This injury has made me appreciate his (Shay's) situa­tion a little more. It's kind of weird that the same thing hap­pened," Carey said. "It's just tough after all the work, but Rob and Mike are both playing well so they should be able to fill in." 
Lynn said Carey's injury is a significant loss to the team and one that will cause him to reassess his personal game. 
Losing Dave is tough because he is big and fast and was a real team player. I can't play the same game, but I'm just going to go out and contribute where Dave left off," Lynn said. 
"I'm used to being the fourth attackman and now I'll have to be in a different mental set," he said. "I usually watch the game in order to get into the flow. Now I'll have to be ready from the start." 
Well, we finally got into the air, flew to Providence, landed at the airport there, but couldn't get off the plane be­cause there was a plane in our gate that was being delayed be­cause of bad weather. . . in Chicago, of all places. 
After all that, we were only seven hours late. 
At our hotel in Providence, the clerk told us that we had been upgraded to a two-room suite, and I thought that maybe something had finally gone right. 
Silly me. 
We got to our two-room suite with a half hour or so to spare before we had to be at the Civic Center, but there were still guests in the room. 
Well, of course, there was a mistake, and we were not only back in a regular room, but would have to wait half an hour to get into it. 
But we only missed half of the Georgetown-Princeton game, and saw Notre Dame beat Vanderbilt. 
But I'll try not to lose my car 
again. 
&j.a and P~;.nt'C¥· 
Please join us for 
Easter Brunch 
Sunday 10-3 EDT. 
Banana Coconut French Toast Rum Raisin Multigran Pancakes Eggs with Scallions & Cream Cheese in Brioche Ham in Ale, Spring Lamb Potatoes Constantine Homemade Breads Salads 
and more... 
Menu subject to change 


Men's tennis ready for region 
13-7 Irish end nine-day layoff against regional foes 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team has already played the giants of collegiate tennis, UCLA, USC, and Michigan to name only a few, but now it is time to tackle smaller lesser regional foes in their own back­yard. Before the Irish program can turn itself into a national power it is essential they dom­inate the Midwest region. 
"I want to establish that we are a top regional team, and I think we have done that except for the Wisconsin match," said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss. "We have played the nationally established teams close, and it is important to beat teams that are right at our level." 
The 13-7 Irish will have to prove themselves to three more regional foes during Easter vacation at the Eck Pavilion. To date, the aspiring Irish have downed such regional powers as Ohio State, Illinois and Iowa. Coming off a loss to Wisconsin and a nine­day layoff, Notre Dame is ready to take the court against Miami (Ohio), Northern Illi­nois and Indiana State. 
At 10:30 Friday morning, the Irish will toss the ball up to Miami (Ohio) who they fell to 6-3 last year. The Redskins placed second in the Mid­American Conference in 1988. To illustrate the strength of their lineup, Miami's No. 3 player, Mike Johnston is ranked No. 92 in the nation while their No.1 and No. 2 
Rozelle retires 
after 30 years as 
Commissioner 
Associated Press 
PALM DESERT, Calif.-NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle an­nounced Wednesday he is retir­ing, effective immediately, after 30 years. He said he would remain on the job until a suc­cessor is found. 
Rozelle, 63, said he made the decision last October, but told no one. Most owners were un­aware of his decision until he made a private announcement to them, 10 minutes before his public statement. 
Rozelle's contract runs through the 1991 season. But he said he wanted to step down now "to enjoy more free time­stress-free time" with his fam­ily. "It's been a great 30 years." 
Rozelle said he expected a successor would be named before the saeason begins, and would stay on to help the transi­tion. 
"I have no health problems except for the 20 pounds I gained since I stopped smoking a year ago," Rozelle said. 
Rozelle was elected commis­sioner in 1959 as a dark-horse candidate following the death

... 
of Bert Bell. At the time, Rozelle was general manager of the Los Angeles Rams. 
He guided the NFL through its most lucrative period, in­cluding a merger with the AFL in 1966. He was especially adept at obtaining large television contracts, increasing the NFL's television revenue from less $1 million a year to the cur­rent $440 million. 
players are not listed in the ITCA national rankings. 
Jeff Vandenberg, the No. 1 player, is an aggressive left­handed player that covers the entire court extremely well. The Redskins No.2 slot is filled by Pep Llinas, who uses excel­lent groundstrokes in his ag­gressive game. Freshman Mike Johnston, the No. 3 player, is a serve and volleyer who defeated Notre Dame' No. 1 Dave DiLucia in the fall Ball State Tournament. 
"There is no question that the toughest match of the weekend is against Miami," said Bayliss of the No. 9 regionally-ranked foe. "It will be a dogfight. It is a toss-up match but one we bet­ter win. They have their entire nucleus back minus one player, and added a couple of good freshman." 
Up next for the No. 6 regionally-ranked Irish is Nor­thern Illinois. In the second match of the day at 4 p.m., Notre Dame who downed the Huskies 7-2 last season, will confront a squad filled with dif­ferent individual styles. The No. 1 Huskie is Steve Weire who went to the 1987 NCAA singles championships. Northern Illi­nois's No. 3 player, Matt Per­son hails from Sweden and typifies the Swedish consis­tency of Mats Wilander. 
"Northern Illinois is a solid team," said Bayliss who pos­sesses a 312-114 coaching record. "If I had to generalize, they are not aggressive but very consistent. If we play well we will win. They are behind us in the regional rankings but they are going to be tough." 
The final weekend foe is the Syacamores of Indiana State, the alma mater of Celtic Larry Bird. The Irish squad is looking to extend a ten-year winning streak, including a 6-3 victory in 1988. Claude Servant, heads the Syacamores' lineup. Ser­vant, a Frenchman, utilizes an good forehand to combat his op­ponents. On paper, Indiana State looks to be the least of the three opponents. 
"I don't anticipate a serious threat in the match," said Bayliss. 
Taken as a whole, Bayliss stated that this weekend's ac­tion may provide the setting for an excellent top to bottom ef­fort. Recently, No. 1 Dave DiLucia and No.2 Walter Dol­hare have carried the bulk of the load for the Irish. 
"I am really excited about the way David and Walter are winning," said Bayliss. "My concern regards the lower guys. Ryan Wenger, No. 5, has done that but Paul Odland has played well but needs to win. They need to stand up and be counted, and I think they will." 
~need someone with the confidenceofasm_:geon,the dedication or-amarathoner and the courage ofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corp~ volumeer Call us al 1~800-424-8580, Ex I. 9l 
PeaceCorps. 
Thr!IJUII'IniJOhyou"lltwrlow. 
Yo Bri-Have a great B-day weekend! Love you Mom & Dad  
LIVE AN INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE Saint Louis University -MADRID­AMERICAN EDUCATION WITH A PLUS UNDERGRADUATE COURSES: • Business Administration: Economics, ...Accounting, Statistics, Finance. • Computer Science. • Communications: Advertising, Journalism, ... Radio. • Hispanic Studies. • French, English, Spanish grammar. • Engineering. • TESOL: Teaching Eng. as a second language. • And thirty other choices. JOIN OUR SUMMER PROGRAM: JUNE 19 -JULY 28 ENJOY: Our highly qualified instruction. Individual attention. Housing with Spanish families and dorms. Group trips around Spain. INFORMATION: Cl De Ia Vina, 3 -28003 MADRID Tel: 233-2032 or 233-2812  



The Observer I Trey Reymond The Notre Dame men's tennis team, now 13-7 after coming off a loss to Wisconsin, will try to regain its momentum after a nine-day layoff during Easter break against regional rivals Miami (Ohio), Northern Illinois and Indiana State. 
-~e-Obse.-----~~r--­
--=-l.-=1-1 a.~•~.., -----­
is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
OTS Typesetters 
flexible morning hours must be able to work with computers For more information, contact Observer Typesetting Service Manager Angie Bellanca at 239-5303 or 283-3878 
Build a career with 
a six-figure income: 
Be a broker. 
The wealth-building company. Established in 1865, we are owned by GE, one of the world's largest corporations. With 50 offices and 1500 brokers, we serve an affluent clientele with our superior research and investment services. 
What you can expect from Kidder, Peabody. Solid professional training. Committed sales support. Superior investment products. Excellent commissions that could put you into a six-figure income within three to five years. 
Future management opportunities. What Kidder, Peabody expects from you. We seek the elite: individuals who are self­motivated and entrepreneurial. People who enjoy sales and marketing and want a full­time career as a broker with a New York Stock Exchange member firm. 
Where. 
Professional positions in the Toledo, Ohio office . To explore this superb opportunity, 
send a full resume to: Joseph T. O'Leary, V.P. Kidder, Peabody & Co. Suite 1000 First Federal Plaza Toledo, OH 43624 
!JJM~~ 


---------------------~-------~-~-------------------------------------------­
Thursday, March 23, 1989 The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 


C 1981 Chron•cle Fealures Otslribt.rled by UntYe~"UI Press Syndtc&le .3-23 
"Hey, wait a minute! This is grass! We've been eating grass!" 


Thursday 
3:30 p.m. Women's Softball vs. St. Joseph's.fl.ensselaer. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Thursday Noon GALA-Kellogg graduate student workshop "Union Strength & Decline in Chile After 1973," by Ernesto Livacich, Economics graduate student, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
3:30p.m. Chemical Engineering Reilly leccture with Dr. Shel­don Isakoff of E.I. duPont de Nemours & Company, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Cheese Steak Sandwich Veal Marengo Deviled Pork Chops Mushroom Stroganoff 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jk advertising. ~ 
;g Call 239-6900 ~ 
COMICS 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Pork Baked Meat Loaf Cheese Blintzes Deli Bar 
ACROSS 30 Fight for breath 33 Kind of shop, in 
1 Comic's stock in Soho
trade 5 Space-age 
35 Seraglio room acronym 36 Tub plant 
9 Q followers 37 Critic Hippolyte 13lcehouse? Adolphe­14 T1me spans 38 Part of AARP 
15 Branch of bioi. 39 Fleur-de--­16Ciothed-40 Relative of (fully attired) curare 19 Tantalized 
41 Hypochondri­20 Feudal tribute ac's dread 21 Hardened 42 Balance 22 Yodeler's milieu 
accounts 
45 Camille portrayer 1936 24 Pitt mascot 
27 Deliver an address 48 Household pests
29 Scottish monster, 50 Trygve of the affectionately UN 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Bill Watterson 
11\E LONGER ~0\l W~\T 
FOR T\.lE MAIL, 'ffiE ~ 11-IER!: IS 11'-l IT. 
51 Plural pronoun for Pierre 
54 "For-, two, three strikes you're out. 
56 Plains Indian 58 Conversely 60Fitsto­61 Salt Lake City 
team 62 "A Man­Woman," 1966 movie 63 This was once a 
tin lizZie 64 Book preceder 65 Ill-tempered 
DOWN 1 Endowments 2 Be in accord 3 Exult selfishly 4 Arithmetical exercises 5 Rib 6 The Altar, in astronomy 7 Hindu ascetic 8 "Marriage is -so grave. " RLS. 9 Purify 10 Moves like Phil Rizzuto 11 Adjective for Marilyn Monroe 12 The previous mo. 

17 Dilapidated car 18 Seville, e.g . 23 Missionary's 
concern 25 Precursor of down 26 Supply new 
weaponry 27 Fr holy woman 28 War, in 
Dusseldorf 30 Having less color 
The Far Side 
31 Vibrant 32 Poked around 34 Patrick or Ryan 37 Start of T1ny 
Tim's theme song 38"1t's-1" (business . agreement) 43 Talk incessantly 44 Like feathers prior to molting 
46 Most mature 47 Stand 49 Schnoz 51 Vapid 52-hand (give 
help) 53 Family car 55 Leather or usher 
ending 57 Socko! 58 Simpleton 59 Practice 
witchcraft on 
Gary Larson 

--~---~-------------­
Sports

page 12 Thursday, March 23, 1989 
Women's basketball heads south for NIT 
By MOLLY MAHONEY all played major roles in the Sports Writer team's success and against Toledo eariler this season, The showdown is set for the Liebscher scored a personal­
thriller in Amarillo. best 19 points. 
Tonight the 20-9 Notre Dame But Liebscher may be yet an­women's basketball team will other Irish casualty whose ab­clash with 21-6 Toledo in sence may throw a curve into Amarillo, Texas, to open the the team's gameplan. first round of the women's Na­A severely-sprained ankle tional Invitation Tournament. may prevent Liebscher, who 
The team's battled earlier averages 10 points and 4.2 this season on Dec. 19, but this rebounds per game, from start­game should be played with a ing and, perhaps even playing decidedly different tempo. in the game. 
In their first meeting, the She has yet to practice and Irish came out ahead, 77-70. the jury is still out on the deci­But this time something is mis­sion to play Liebscher tonight. sing, or more precisely, "Last time we played Toledo someone--pre-season All­we won," said Irish head coach American pick and senior Muffet McGraw. "But Heidi co-captain Heidi Bunek. scored 22 points last time and 
Bunek was the catalyst in Sara scored 19 so it creates a Notre Dame's home win over lot of problems with them out. the Rockets scoring 22 points "We've had time to adjust to 
"' 
and grabbing 10 rebounds, but the loss of Heidi but Sara still "' ~ The Observer I Trey"R8Y'rnoiid Sophomore point guard Karen Robinson will women's NIT In Amarillo, Texas. The Irish
this time she will have to watch couldn't run today, so we'll 
the action from the sidelines as have to look to players like Lisa try to keep her opponents on the run again defeated the Rockets earlier this season n-70 she nurses her knee back to Kuhns and Comalita Haysbert tonight, as the Notre Dame women's basketball in the Joyce ACC. health after surgery. to take over for us." team takes on Toledo in the first round of the 
She had been the team's big­Senior co-captain Kuhns has general all year for the Irish cause as well, averaging 10.1 eight rebounds per game, and gun, but her injury forced the been one of the team's most and has used her furtiveness to points per game and adding a Notre Dame will have to use team to redefine itself. consistent free-throw shooters filch 60 passes and dish out a team-high 76 steals en route to hustle and not height if it hopes 
Now it is a talented trio of with a .833 percentage from the team-high 172 assists. using her 5-9 frame to pull down to keep the Rockets off the sophomores who have born the charity stripe and is the only Her .828 percentage from the 6.1 rebounds per game. boards. brunt of the pressure and Irish player to present a threat free-throw line and team-high Toledo, who is coached by Senior Diondra Toney and picked up the slack in scoring from three-point territory. 12.6 points per game has helped former Irish assistant coach Davis will play key roles defen­and rebounding left in the wake Haysbert leads the team in provide a buffer for the Irish Bill Fennelly, is ranked 15th in sively as they will be assigned of Bunek's injury. blocks, with 10, and has swiped offensively after losing the nation in rebounding ad-man-to-man coverage of the 
Karen Robinson, Krissi 26 steals thus far in the season. Bunek's 16.2 points per game. vantage this season, out-Rockets' top players--Kally Davis and Sara Liebscher have Robinson has been the floor And Davis has helped the rebounding their opponents by Savage and Kim Sekulski. 
~~--~--~~~~~~~~~-------------. 
Road to Final Four
ND baseball prepares for_ IU 
Coach Murphy urges the 10-4 Irish to maintain intensity 
easier than flight 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO of the biggest victories in the the team finished 39-19, includ­Sports Writer history of the program. ing two victories over the Irish, 
The road to the Final Four may be a difficult one to travel, But Murphy isn't making any one of them a 10-1 rout. 
but it couldn't be any worse than the flight to Providence. Irish head baseball coach promises. According to Murphy, the 
One of my first official duties as Sports Editor of The Pat Murphy can sum up his "Against Indiana we've got pitcher from that game, senior 
Observer was to arrange a trip to Providence, R.I. to cover team's philosophy in three to play like it's the seventh lefthander Eric Jacques, will 
Notre Dame's men's basketball team in the first round of words: "just do it." 
probably be pitted against the 
the NCAA Tournament. No, he's not receiving en­Irish once again. 
I made the arrangements, but I didn't plan on one thing ... dorsement money from Nike, "He blew us away last year," 
I lost my car. he's just stating what the team said Murphy. "He's going to must do in its upcoming road pitch again. He's a good left­
Theresa 
trip and for the rest of the handed pitcher, one of the top season. pitchers in the nation." 
Kelly 
' 

It's a simple enough slogan, The Hoosiers are led by 
Sports Editor ' 
and it should help when the senior shortstop Geof Flynn, 
n

team travels to Butler for a I who is batting .364 in 66 at-bats. doubleheader on Thursday, but Outfielder Phil Dauphin is cur­
A friend had borrowed it and parked it in the D2 lot, but when the team takes on Indiana rently the team's hottest hitter 
I didn't know where, and at 5:30 in the morning, all the on Saturday, the motto will be with a .490 average in 49 at­
cars look the same. But my fellow travelers and I found it easier said than done. bats. 
at 5:50 or so, and were on our way to catch our 6: 11 American It is true that the 10-4 Irish Pat Murphy Before the Irish face Indiana 
Airlines flight from South Bend to Chicago. are off to one of their best starts game of the world series," said they will have to play two 
Or maybe we weren't. on record and that they are the second-year coach. "We've games with Midwestern Col­
We got to the airport a little before six, got as far as the rated 26th in the country. It is got to go out and give every­legiate Conference rival Butler 
gate and even had our luggage through the security x-rays, also true that they have thing we've got." on Thursday. 
but they had already filled the flight with standby pas­already knocked off perennial The Hoosiers have gotten off "Butler's got a couple young 
sengers. We returned to the American Airlines desk to make collegiate baseball power­to a 16-1 start behind the coach­
other arrangements to get to our connecting flight to Prov­houses Texas and Miami in two ing of Bob Morgan. Last year see MURPHY, page 8 
idence. 
Or maybe we weren't. 
The three of us were in line, and the agent was about to 
wait on us when, from out of nowhere, appeared the Notre 
Ellis named to All-Freshmen team 
Dame Cheerleader From Hell. Do you know who I am?" he bellowed, running up to the Associated Press ing Oklahoma's Wayman Tis­scoring at 13.5 points per game 
desk ahead of the other people in line, his tie wrapped rather dale who earned the honor as and led the Fighting Irish in 
ridiculously around his head. LaPhonso Ellis, Notre a freshman in 1983. rebounding, grabbing 9.4 per 
We soon discovered who he was, and we also discovered Dame's freshman sensation, Joining Jackson and Ellis on game. 
that American Airlines is more interested in waiting on and Chris Jackson, only the the All-Freshmen team are The 6-10 Ellis shot an impres­
loud, obnoxious, overbearing jerks rather than the people second member of his class to frontcourt players Alonzo sive 56 percent from the field 
who had been in line. The agents Call three of them) turned earn All-America honors, were Mourning of Georgetown, Billy and showed his ability to play 
their attention to solving his problem (which was exactly named Wednesday to The As­Owens of Syracuse and Don tough defense under the basket 
the same as mine), one of them still holding my ticket in sociated Press All-Freshmen MacLean of UCLA. by blocking 53 shots. 
her hand, as if to remind herself that she had been waiting team. The voting was conducted Ellis said he was prepared 
on someone else when the Cheerleader from Hell ap­The Louisiana State guard among a selected national for the transition from high 
proached. set the class scoring record panel of sportwriters and school to college. 
Now, I wouldn't be writing about this guy at all, except with his 30.2 average and last broadcasters. The 6-foot-1 Jackson, the only 
it was his rude behavior (a fine representation of the week he became the second Ellis became a silent leader freshman among the top 50 
see FLIGHT, page 9
freshman ever to be named to on a Notre Dame team without 
see ELLIS, page 8

the All-America team, follow-any seniors. He was second in 







