--~-·-------------.1 
IACCENT: Movie reviews Spring Break -2 ' 
Cloudy Wednesday. Highs in the middle 20s. Lows Wednes­day night in the upper teens.
IVIEWPOINT: A visit in Heaven 


WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 1989 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Phone registration on hold for spring 
By KELLEY TUTHILL "This system, as does any Staff Reporter large, complex computer sys­tem, requires extensive and DART (Direct Access thorough testing before it is in­Registration by Telephone) troduced in order to minimize will not be initiated for this the likelihood of problems spring's enrollment, as further when it is first used," said testing of the system is needed Winicur in a letter sent out to prior to student use. all Notre Dame students that 
are not graduating this May. registrar has many duties, Winicur said that there was page 4 not sufficient time to do the 
testing before registration this 
The system will be tested spring. thoroughly this summer with The tests will determine the plans to register students by responsiveness of the com­phone next Oct. for the Spring puter and check for unforseen 1990 semester, said Daniel combinations such as special Winicur, dean of administra­majors or requirements that tion and registrar. have not been programmed 
"I was willing to try the sys­into the system, said Winicur. tem this semester, but I was The Registrar is looking for not willing to take the chance students to participate in the that something would go testing of the system this sum­wrong," said Winicur. "We mer, said Winicur. "The more don't want the students to be students, the better the test, guinea pigs." said Winicur. 
Bush lobbying hard for Tower 
Associated Press The administration's efforts Bush said he did not know 
suffered a setback when Re­whether he could win over 
WASHINGTON-President publican Sen. Larry Pressler of senators who have indicated Bush launched a full-court South Dakota announced he opposition to Tower, saying press Tuesday to salvage John was "very much leaning only that "I hope so." Tower's nomination, meeting against" confirmation and But with Tower sitting on his privately with a dozen swing urged Tower to withdraw left in the Cabinet room, the Democrats and wavering before a vote. president said he had not heard Republicans in hopes of per­"I think that he may very anyone "challenge this man's suading them to back his cho­well be doing him (Bush) a fa­knowledge and his ability." sen defense secretary. vor in this case,"'said Pressler, "He's the best to do the job 
"I'm working hard at it," who said he was fearful that that needs to be done," Bush Bush told reporters at a Tower would not be capable of said. "'I don't believe that picture-taking session during cleaning up the Pentagon anybody should be pilloried on an afternoon Cabinet meeting. procurement system if con­
"I'm committed." firmed. see TOWER, page 3 


Daley wins Chicago mayoral primary 
Associated Press a lower nimout among blacks than whites. 
CHICAGO-Richard Daley, son With 67 percent of the city'sof the legendary boss of Chicago 2,911 precincts reporting, Daleypolitics, defeated Mayor Eugene had 386,950 votes or 65 perceritSawyer in a Democratic primary 
to Sawyer's 206,345 votes or 34 Tuesday and took a giant step percent. Three other candidates 
toward the City Hall office his divided the remaining votes. 
fatherheld for 21 years. 
If Daley wins the April 4 Daley built a commanding lead general election and claims with overpowering support from leadership of the nation's third­predominantly white wards. 
largest city, it would mark the Although Sawyer, the city's first time a white has ousted a 
second black mayor, ran up black mayor in one of the impressive margins in his own country's big_gest cities. 
strongholds, he was hampered by 
see DALEY, page 5 

By KATHY RYAN  
News Staff  
Zihm defeated Stanford last night  plaques for individual team members.  
in  the final  round  of the Iceberg  Stanford was awarded with a second  
Debates held last night in the Library  place prize of $250 for the dorm's  
Auditorium .  general fund in addition to trophies  
Dean of the Law School David  for each team member.  
Link, chairman and spokesman of a panel of five judges, announced a  "I was pleased. Turn out was good, as was audience participation,"  
vote of 3:2 in favor of Zahm after  said  Father  Malloy.  He  also  
what he called "a very close debate."  commented on last night's debaters'  
Zahm defended the negative side of last night' to the improvement of that  ability to defend sides opposite their own opinions.  to  
country's record of upholding human rights of its citizens."  the  Father Malloy added debates were intended to  that the improve  
Zahm held that cutting economic  intellectual  life  in  the  middle  of  
aid to Latin American countries hurts the needs of the people in those  winter and felt they accomplished this goal. He hopes the program can  
countries while increasing the number of dissenters and creating political unrest.  be sustained in further years. Chairman of Iceberg Debates Joe McKenna. rector of Sorin Hall, was  
Stanford stressed the importance of  equally pleased with the success of  
the U.S.'s public dissociation from  last night's debate. "I think it pays  
oppressive  governments.  Their  tribute to the quality of the Zahm and  
argument was based on "an ethical  Stanford  teams.  They  are  budding  
power  imperative  logically  politicians with a great deal of flair  
synthesized with driving American principals."  and ability to think on their feet. Let's look out fnr them in ten years time,"  
University President Father Edward  said  McKenna.  
The Observer/Erin Cusack Senior Paul Bintinger, from Stanford, gives opening statements at the Iceberg Debates finals, held last night,  Malloy presented Zahm's team with $500 for the dorm's general fund and  see DEBATE, page 5  
as opponents Rajajit Singh and Jim McCarthy, both from Zahm, look on.  

Zahm triumphant in Iceberg Debates final 




---~ -~------­

Wednesday, March 1, 1989
The Observer 

IN BRIEF 
Cat Stevens songs have been banned by an Indianapolis radio station because of the former pop singer's support of Ayatollah Khomeini's condemnation of "The Satanic Verses." The radio station WXTZ-FM made the announce­ment Monday. Stevens, who now lives in London under the name Yussef Islam, said he supported Khomeini's call for the death of author Salman"'Rushdie. "If someone defames the Prophet, he must die," said Stevens. "WXTZ does not believe it's appropriate to support in any way this type of international terrorism, nor do we believe in the advocating of murder in any way, much less in a manner than imperils freedom of expression,'' said Randy Harrison, operations manager for the easy listening sta­tion. -Associated Press ap-na-02-28-89 1449est 
OF INTEREST 
The 1989 Collegiate Jazz Festival needs volunteers. Open positions include ticket, T-shirt, and program sales, stage crew, and security, for Festival at Stepan Center April 7-8. For more information contact Chris Denver (2478) or Matt McGlynn (2282). -The Observer 
All interested in Class Office are required to attend a mandatory meeting for prospective candidates on Thursday, March 2 in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFor­tune. -The Observer 
Applications are available for positions of manager and assistant manager at Irish Gardens. The completed applications are to be returned to the flower shop no later than Friday March 3. -The Observer 
The Run-Off Election for student body president and vice president as well as Senate District One will be held today in the dorms from 11:00-1:00 and 5:00-7:00. Off­campus will be in the Student Government Office from 11:00-1:00 and 3:00-5:00. -The Observer 
The University Libraries are observing the Year of Cultural Diversity with the recent acquisition of new titles relevant to the theme for the videocassette collection in the Hesburgh Library. The video collection is located in the audio center on the second floor of the Hesburgh Li­brary. -The Observer 
WSND FM 88.9 is looking for people interested in applying for news director for next year. No experience is necessary. Call Jim Mendenhall at 287-5758 for more information. -The Observer 
Senior Formal bid sales will be held March 14 and 
15 from 6-10 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center, and March 
16 from 5-9 p.m. in the LeMans Hall lobby. -The Observer 
C.O.O.L. Campus Outreach Opportunity League, a non-profit organization which promotes student involve­ment in community service and action, will hold its annual three-day conference at Fordham University in New York from March 9 to 12. The benefit concert on March 11 will feature "10,000 Maniacs." Anyone interested in attending should contact Patrick Creadon at 289-1233. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service 
announcements may be submitted at The Observer main 
office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 
1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­
nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­
ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. 
Campus announces other events of general interest, free 
or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­
mitted materials and determine if and where announce­
ments will be published. -The Observer 


Design Editor ................. Chris Labaree Design Assistant .. . ...... Beth Peterson Typesetters.. . . . . .. .. . . .. .. .. .. . . Mike Kolar ............................................. Chris Malin News Editors ..................... Tim O'Keefe ............................................. Greg Lucas Copy Editor ........................ Flo Hoelker Sports Copy Editor........... Theresa Kelly Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Mike Truppa Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi 
De a.-r.. (USPS '99 1~) is published Monday thrOUJh Friday accpt durin& cum aad vK&tioa periods. ne ~is published by the students of the Univenily of Notre o.mc aad Saint Mary's Collqc. Sublcriplions may be purc:bu­ed for S40 per year{$'-' per semester) by wrilioa ne a.-r.., P.O. Box Q, Notre o-e. ladiana 46556. 
De...._ is a -bcr of De A_.W r-. All reproduction riabts are racrwd. 
Accent Editor ............... Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ........... Matt Murphy Accent Designer ............. Shannon Roach Typists ... .. . ... .. ...... . . . . .. .. .. . . Rosi Pozada .............................................. Sue Barton ND Day Editor ........... Jennifer Richards SMC Day Editor ............. Alissa Murphy Photographer ....................... Eric Bailey Business Editor.:........ ....... Tim O'Keefe Business Copy Editor .... Christine Walsh Sports Wednesday Editor ..... Pete Gegen 
-l~l#JI•ifie)illf~ll-




February: A time to complain, but not to act 
February must be that time of the year. That time when everyone has nothing better to do with their time in sunny South Bend but complain, whine, and moan about anything that suits their fancy. 
It seems as though February at Notre Dame brings out the worst in people. It's true that compared to the football season there is nothing to do on weekends and that this is compounded by the infamous lake-effect weather but February isn't all that bad. Is it? 
We've complained about Sports Illustrated's sexist swimsuit issue, the lousy food in the dining hall, the closing of the 24-hour Oak Room, JPW weekend, hell, we've even complained about the complaints (this column included). 
I don't know why February effects everyone so. Maybe it is the shortness of the month, maybe it is the weather, or maybe it's a let down after the football season. Who can say for sure? 
For whatever reason it is strange that of all the months of the year, we pick February to complain in. It is almost like national complaining month. 
The interesting thing about all of the whining we as students have been doing for the past 28 days is that in the midst of this onslaught of complaints there has also been a considerable amount of apathy. (Here comes my complaint). 
Most everyone on campus thinks Notre Dame is one of the most apathetic places on earth. We complain about this constantly. 
They all want someone else to take the initative and change the attitudes around campus. "Notre Dame stinks, I wish there was something to do on weekends," is just one 

example of this attitude. 

Don't get me wrong. There are some students who make an effort to make a difference, but the majority of students are like a friend who lives next to me in the dorm. This friend is constantly telling me that The Observer should do this, that and the other thing to fix things around campus. "Someone really should write about this teacher's lousy teaching," he'll tell me. 
To some extent he's right, The Observer is hardly exempt, but he is really just trying to get someone else to do his work for him. He doesn't want to make an effort to write a letter to the editor himself. He wants someone else to do it. 
Regretfully this friend is not alone. Student government, in an effort to assist students with class selection, distributed course evaluation questionaires to all the students on campus. About 400 students responded. 
Students complain about classes, but when someone makes an effort to help, they decide not to assist in the process. 
I am not sure why so few responded, but I'd say a large 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
~=:~·:~-~~~:fi.~~~:i:::·~~~·~·~:~·:~ 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing

II II

on pool tables tomght LaFortune. 
Question: How do you reach over 
12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 
number of the respondents figured it wasn't worth their time. "Enough people will fill them out, they don't need mine," seems to be the pervasive attitude. 
How wrong all these people are. Your response does make a difference. Take for example the student body election. Only 3, 711 students voted in Monday's election. If only II more people had voted for Matt Breslin there would have been no need for a run-off. In this instance every seemingly insignificant vote would probably have made a difference in the final outcome. 
Where does all of this leave us on the first day of a brand new month? Well, we have managed to voice a lot of complaints and get some dialogue this past month, but we have also complained about things without presenting an alternative we are willing to follow through on. Getting people to want to change something is a lot easier than actually getting them to change it. 
Since February was the month of bitching and apathy, let's try to make March the month of acting and suggesting ways to change the system. 
March is coming in like a lion, and hopefully will go out like a lamb. 
March 2 

BERTICE BERRY 
"The Bill Cosby ofSociology" Beginning at 9:00pm -Don't Miss It!! Don't forget to check out TED'S Hideaway!! ND I SMC J.D. required. 

Wednesday, March 1, 1989 
Garzia upgraded to good condition 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary's Junior Ursula Garzia has been upgraded to good condition Tuesday after­noon, following a car accident in which she was injured early Saturday morning. 
Junior Michael Stonebreaker, who was the driver of the car involved in the one-car accident, remained in fair condition late Tuesday, said a Memorial Hospital spokesperson. 
Stonebreaker and Garzia were injured when Stonebreaker's car ran off the road on U.S. 31133 and struck a sign pole. Tests after the acci­dent showed Stonebreaker had a blood-alcohol level of .157 per­cent. Indiana's legal intoxica­tion level is .10 percent. 
No decision has been made regarding punishment of Stonebreaker, said Associate Sports Information Director John Heisler. Heisler said Head Coach Lou Holtz had returned to campus late Tuesday after­noon and has not had a chance to either review the accident 
Dozens dead in riots in Venezuela's capital 
Gov't suspends rights to restore order 
Associated Press 
CARACAS, Venezuela-Rioting over price increases ravaged Caracas for a second day Tuesday as looting spread, and the government said it was suspending constitutional guarantees to restore order. 
Police estimated up to 50 people were killed and 500 in­jured in the worst violence in 30 years of democratic rule. 
the world gets smaller, gets larger with the liT MBA. 

·ecrunolo'IS is at the heart of Amerim's rompetitiveness. This helps explain why many liT educated managers reach top management positions fast. 
Implement innovation with the liT Full-Time MBA. liT offers uniquely focused specializations in: Operations IJ!ld Technology . Management, Infonnation Management, Finance, Marketmg and Organization 
Management. . . . ,
Optional salaried summer internships are available with many of Chicago s leading rorporations. Financial aid is available for qualified students. liT offers part-time MBA program as well. Tomorrow Starts Today at liT. 
OPEN HOUSE LOCATIONS: HOURS 103m to Noon March 11th (Sat.) March 18th (Sat.) Main Campus, Room 113, Stuart Bldg. liT West 10 W. 31st. Street 600 S. Lambert Road Chicago, 11 Glen Ellyn, 11 m 
Call3l2-853-5848 today for complete information. WI 

ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
SchoOl ot BustnessAdfmntstratiOn, Chtcago, U:.60616 

report or to meet with Stone breaker. 
"Our only concern at this point is for their health," Heis­ler said. It would be several days at least before any type of decision regarding punish­ment would be made, Heisler said. 
Heisler said that all Univer­sity policies regarding alcohol abuse would be upheld. He said any further action would be up to Holtz. 
University policy requires evaluation and counseling of students who abuse alcohol and the possible loss of campus driving privileges for alcohol­related driving offenses, said Denny Moore, assistant direc­tor of public relations and in­formation. 
In an unrelated case, Heisler said that disciplinary action taken against Sophomore tail­back Tony Brooks barring him from extracurricular activities was a decision made outside the athletic department. Heis­ler would not speculate on the reason behind the suspension. 
Civilians exchanged gunfire with police and shop owners took up arms to protect their property in the wake of the riots, which began Monday in Caracas, the capital, and spread to up to seven other cities. 
The month-old government of President Carlos Andres Perez announced it has decided to suspend constitional guaran­tees to re-establi~Q__ordE;!r . 

-~-~------______....l 
The Observer 
page 3 


N' Phi*» 

George Bush of the United States during an anti­government and U.S. rally. 
Democratic Socialist speaks on poverty in U.S. from 50s to 80s 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON News Staff 
Michael Harrington, national co-chairperson of the Demo­cratic Socialists of America, examined poverty in America 
from the  1950's  through  the  
1980's  in  a  lecture  Tuesday  
night.  

Harrington said that Lyndon Johnson's "unconditional war on poverty" in 1964 was under­emphasized because of the Vietnam War. He did praise Johnson for "cutting poverty of the aging in half" by establish­ing Medicare and covering the eldery under Social Security. He also praised the Johnson ad­ministration for establishing 
() 0 0 o e 
0~~~· 

job training and legal services for the poor. 
Harrington said that poverty was an "integrated problem" in the 1950s and 60s, which af­fected blacks, whites and Hispanics. He also stated that before Johnson many of the el­derly were poor because of lack of benefits to help them with their health and day-to-day living. 
Harrington stated that, in contrast, the "new poor are overwhelming the working poor." Many people who work have low paying "poverty part­time jobs without any kind of medical coverge." · Many P®ple have to take these part-
March 14-N.D. LaFortune 6-10 pm 15-N.D. LaFortune 6-10 pm 16-S.M.C. LeMans 5-9 pm 
Don't Forget ... 
• 
$70.00 per Bid 

• 
Get measured for Tux 

• 
Buy Flowers 


• 
Arrange Roommates and Dinner Seating 


0 
(?) 
time jobs after being laid off 
from previous jobs, he said, 
and they are therefore "sliding 
down the social ladder." 
Harrington compared the 
U:S. system to Japan's, where, "executives go to the same bathroom as employees" and workers "have lifetime guaranteed employment." He said that the U.S. should incor­porate some aspects of the Ja­panese system into its own in order to make it more economi­cally just. 
Harrington said he thinks that we "can't have a war on poverty because the majority of Americans are not affluent.'' He thinks that in order to solve the poverty problem we must "link the struggle against povertry in the U.S. to the struggle against poverty in the world" because it would be wrong to have an America that was just in an unjust world. 
Harrington's lecture, which was held at the library auditorium, was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for Inter­national Studies, the Govern­ment departmemt, and student government. 



Tower 
continued from page 1 
the basis of unfounded rumor. I've known John Tower a long time, longer than many that are criticizing him out there in various walks of life." 
Bush said he thought that Americans had "an innate sense of fair play" about such matters and said he did not think that Tower should be judged on the basis of percep­tions about his character. 
"So, if somebody has a spe­cific objection, fine," he said. "They have a right to state it." 
page 4 
The Observer 

Registrar handles many duties 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Staff Reporter 
Registering all University 
students for next semester isn't 
the Registrar's only headache-­
the office also allots clas­
srooms, compiles the informa­
tion in the course schedule 
booklet and sets the final exam 
schedule. 
First preference for clas­srooms is awarded to the de­partment whose building the room is in, said Daniel Winicur, dean of administration and registrar. "For example, a chemistry or physics class would have first preference for a room in Nieuwland," said Winicur.­
"Then we look at the history. If one faculty member has taught in the room for years, we take that into account," said Winicur. However, if the room size and the type of room does not suit the class, it is unlikely that the professor would keep the room, said Winicur. 
The particular departments who sponsor the class decide the maximum and minimum number of students, said Winicur. "We assign clas­srooms based on the maximum number of students." 
Mter registration, the Office of the Registrar has a better idea of class size, said Winicur. At this time there is a readjust­ment of classrooms. Another adjustment occurs at the end of the summer when freshmen and graduate class sizes are available, said Winicur. Clas­srooms are also adjusted fur­ther at addtlrop week. 
The faculty has a fair amount of say on the classrooms that they are assigned, especially if a particular type of room is needed to teach a certain class, said Winicur. If a class has three or fewer students the classroom will be taken away, if the space is needed, said Winicur. 

Last semester, for the first time that Winicur can remem­ber, there were more classes scheduled at a given time than classrooms available. He said the busiest times are Mon.tWedHri., 10:00 a.m. and 
11:00 a.m. and Tues.tThurs. at 9:30a.m. and 11:00 a.m. When a "classroom crunch" such as this occurs, the Registrar will go to a department that has several classes scheduled at that time and ask them to move some classes around, accor­ding to Winicur. 
"Some departments like math and engineering histori­cally get together to work out conflicts," said Winicur. Once the preliminary course infor­mation is back from the depart­ments, it is entered into a com­puter, said Winicur. The course information is sent back to the departments for review before the actual course selection booklet is printed, said Winicur. 
The departments offering the course also decide if a class is going to be registration by per­mission only, said Winicur. Ho~~ver, the departments are asked to meet the guidelines set up by the Office of the Registrar. "We ask for jus­tification of why a particular class needs to be 'check­marked,' " said Winicur. 
"We want to make sure that all students have access to classes," said Winicur. He added that the University is trying to cut back on the num­ber of "checkmarked" classes. 
For example, a music clas~ that required an audition would have to be registration by per­mission only, said Winicur. 
There are several reasons why the course schedule book­let may not specify a professor, said Winicur. The department may not have hired someone yet and consequently are un­able to list a professor's name. The second possibility is that 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer 
• advertising. )UlC Call 239-6900 C> 
tne department has yet to 
decide on a professor, said 
Winicur. 
This spring's exam schedule was made up in the fall semes­ter of 1988, said Winicur. The schedule is based upon the exam schedule from the year before, said Winicur. For ex­ample, this spring's schedule depends on when last spring's exams were held. 
"We move the exam that was held on Friday last year to the first day this year," said Winicur. Every other exam is moved up accordingly. 
The schedule is sent to the assistant and associate deans of each college, said Winciur. The deans look over the schedule and problems are dis­cussed at a later meeting, said Winicur. 
"At the meeting, the schedule is amended and if there are conflicts, we clear them up. But when one dean makes a change it affects an­other," said Winicur. The schedule is also coordinated with Saint Mary's College, said Winicur. 
The fall exam schedule is set up in the early summer, said Winicur. The courses offered must be known prior to scheduling exams, he said. En­rollment numbers are also im­portant because there are few large classrooms that must be saved for large classes' exams, said Winicur. 
This spring registration will begin on April20 and the course selection booklet should be available after March 30, said Winicur. 
Women's Care Center 
PREGNANCY HELP CENTER 
• 
FREE Pregnancy Tests 

• 
FREE Confidential, Individual & Couple Counseling 

• 
FREE Referral to Support Agencies 


• FREE Confidentia~ Care 
• 
Medical Referral Service 

• 
Post Abortion Counseling 


1 MILE FROM CAMPU.S 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
24 HOUR HELPLINE .. call for an appointment 234-0363 


STUDENT BUSINESS BOARD 
is now taking applications for 

GENERAL MANAGER 
Sophomores and juniors are welcome to apply 
Not just a resume builder, it's the best business experience on campus 
Oversee the three student-run businesses­Adworks, the Cellar, and Irish Gardens -and a $160,000 budget 
Applications & job descriptions available at the Secretary's desk (2nd floor LaFortune). 
Wednesday, March 1, 1989 

APPhoto 
A visitor takes a closer look at the 'industrial painting' of Italian underground artist Guiseppe Gallizio at the George Pompidou Center in Paris. 
Happy 21st Birthday!! JOHN! 
You haven't changed a bit!! 
f 

Love, MonandDad 


Kaplan LSAT prep· We plead guilty! 
The first, the biggest, the best. We plead guilty on all counts to giving LSAT candidates like you the finest test preparation possible. 
Every year, Stanley H. Kaplan preps more men and women for the LSAT than anyone else. Why? ... It's simple! Our teachers are LSAT specialists who know what it takes to score. Our research staff keeps you on top of the latest test changes. Our home study pack and audio study lab lets you get as much LSAT practice as you need. 
Want proof! Call or visit any of our over 130 nationwide locations. Ask about our free repeat policy and our scholarship programs. You'll find the professionalism your future deserves. Beyond the shadow of a doubt. 






I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
6/12/89 LSAT Prep Class Starts 3/16/89 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
219/272-4135 

Wednesday, March 1, 1989 page 5 
St. Pat's, spring break focus of HPC meeting
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
Constitutional amendments were unanimously approved for the Student Union Board by the Hall Presidents' Council last night, and activities for Spring Break and St. Patrick's Day were also discussed. 
The changes, approved first by the student senate, con­cerned tha addition of a new article, creating a council com­posed of the student body pres­ident, the SUB manager, and the HPC chairperson. The changes will go into effect im­mediately. 
In other news, Rich Daly, as­sistant director of alumni clubs, spoke to the council about the Alumni Association's spring break support program. Each year, the Alumni Associ­ation travels to the school­sponsored break location. This year, the association will travel to South Padre Island. 
The association will provide free long distance phone calls, orange juice, Coke products and morning newspapers to students on break in the area. There will also be an incoming phone number for emer­gencies. However, "the Alumni Association will not be acting in loco parentis," said Daly. Students should bring a N.D;SMC I.D., said Daly. 
Mike Hough, from SUB, brought to the council informa­tion on SUB-sponsored activi-
AIR TRAVEL IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS TICKETS DELIVERED 
CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 
-----·,~.international.!::::
~ toursUttwvcl.­
u7 S. MAIN STREET MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 
courses 0 Tours. France-Language and Culture O Public Affairs Internships 0 

Fiosole. haly-halian0 Hi);h &hool Programs 0 
Dil!ingon, C:ermany-Teachers0 Intercultural Training 0 
Grcece-llumanities0 Interpretation and Translation Institute 0 
Oxford, England-Comparati\·e0 Language Courses 
Business (undergraduate)0 Theology Conference 
0 Oxford, England-International0 l.itera11· Criticism Ccnference 
~lanagoment (graduate)0 Institute lor H.S. Teachers 
0 Uuito. Ecuador-Spanish0 Sacred Scripture Institute 
0 Trier, West German\"-German 0 Alumni Colle~~;e 
0 l\liddlc East -li.S. ·i"eachers 0 English as a Foreign Language 
Session.r 
Pre-May 22-J.une 16 C'.al! (202) 687-5942 or mail to: 
First-June 12-Ju1y 14 SSCE-Georgetawn University 
8-Week C'.rossScssion-June 12-August 4 3061ntercultural C'..cnter 
f>Ccond-July 17-August 18 Washington, D.C. 20057 
Sl1li""" iofont~~~ti..: 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address ---------------------------------------­---------------------------------Zip_________ 
C-rur. u.;CJtrSi, is •• "*'lfltwtaitY•/Ii11tMiiuMlillfl i.stilllliDII ,. tiiiP!.,.at.U"'•is.siiiiJ. 

ties for the upcoming ~t. Patrick's week. The celebration will officially begin Wednesday, March 15 with "Irish Night at the Alley"­Beacon bowling from 9:00 p.m.-1:30 a.m. Shoes will be free with a student I.D. 
The "Shamrock Shuffle", a 4K run around campus, will take place Thursday March 16 at 4:00 p.m. The "King and Queen 0' the Irish" contest will follow that evening at 7:00p.m. at Theodores. After the contest, each dorm will be allowed to donate pennies in support of their candidate for King or Queen. Proceeds from the con­test will go to charity. 
Irish week will conclude on St. Patrick's day with an "Irish Block Party." Dancing will be to the music of three Irish groups. Irish soda bread and other refreshmants will be served including "Midnight Munchies" -a pancake break­fast at midnight. The block party will be held at the Field House Mall under a tent. 
Also announced was the con­tinuation of Bookstore Basket­ball sign-ups. Teams may still register today from 4:00-6:00 
p.m. in the SUB office. The cap­tains meeting will be held March 28 at 7:30p.m. in Stepan Center. 
Junior Dog Books will not be made available until the end of this week at which time they can be purchased in the Junior class office. 

255-7272 
' 
.. , 

···~·~'*':all.....
· ~~~.. ~Sr~t 
.qwx: 'l;£i; 
----. '!

t•=' 11l~ 
··~j:
JP!:~.. 

The Observer/Erin Cusack Haggar Hall. The sale featured crafts from around the world. The sale was held on Feb. 27 and 28. 
Daley 
continued from page 1 
Following a campaign that many observers found tame by Chicago's raucous standards, turnout in the primary election was lower than expected, and black turnout was running about 10 percentage points behind white turnout, the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners said. 
That allowed Daley to build up overwhelming margins on the predominantly white Southwest and Northeast sides. Sawyer was unable to overcome them with weakened 

is currently accepting applications for the following manager positions: 
Accounts Payable Accounts Receivable 
Send resumes by March 14 to: Controller Michelle Soper For more information call 239-5303. 
Grad Student Life Series 
SOME REFLECTIONS ON THE ACADEMIC LJFE WITH DR. ROBERT E. GORDON 
Vice-President of Advanced Studies 
support on the predominantly blac South and West Sides. 
At the same time, the elections board said the number of Republican ballots cast totaled about 25,000-­some 50 percent more than in the previous election. 
Usually, a victory in a Chicago Democratic primary is enough to ensure victory in the general election. 
But this year could be different. The GOP primary took on unusual interest in the past week when former Democratic Alderman Edward Vrdolyak announced a last-minute write-in campaign against endorsed GOP candidate Herbert Sohn. 
In early voting, Vrdolyak was 
second workshop In a series to promote Interaction between Grad students and the administration in Improving Grad sludent life at Notre Dame 


COME SHAPE YOUR FUTURE 
on 

Thursday-March 2nd-7:00p.m. Notre Dame Room 2nd Floor LaFortune 
Rece tion to Follow 
running surprisingly strong outside 
the!Oth Ward, the gritty, South Side 
enclave that sent him to the City 
Council for nearly two decades and 
supported him when he converted to 
the Republican Party. 
With 61 percent of the precincts 
reporting, Vrdolyak had 6,720 votes, 
or 42 percent, to Sohn's 7,342 votes, 
or 45 percent, but some precincts 
were not immediately reporting the 
write-in votes. Businessmen William 
Grutzmacher and Kenneth Hurst split 
the remainder. 
Because of the difficulty of 
counting write-in votes, the outcome 
of the Republican race might not be 
known before Thursday. 
Adding further to the maneuvering, the two primary winners will face a third opponent in the general election-Timothy Evans, a black alderman who is mounting a third­party bid on The Harold Washington Party ticket. 
Sawyer needed heavy black turnout in order to duplicate the victories of the late Harold Washington, who became the city's first black mayor in 1983 



Debate 
continued from page 1 
"Iceberg Debates overall are a testament that students can deal responsibly with some of the key issues of our day in an all student forum," commented McKenna. 
McKenna hoped the debates raised awareness on campus of social justice issues. "The focus was not the debating process itself, but rather we used debating as a very appropriate tool to get students to deal with some of some these issues," he added. 
McKenna expects the future structure of the the debate to remain basically the same with some changes in the implementation. 
"The standing committee hopes the incoming student government will invest similar amounts of time and effort into the Iceberg Debates." 

lf:,aire ~rg todrinkard dri-.e at least let tre rest of us kro.v. 
Reader"s Digest 



The Observer 

Music maker The Observer/Erin Cusack 
Michelle Darnell, a freshman from Lemans, plays the air at Saint Mary's. the guitar, making silvery notes gently waft through 
Indiana House approves 'beer baron bill' 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-The In­diana House approved the con­troversial "beer baron bill" Tuesday as opponents tried to rally beer drinkers to fight the measure. 
Lawmakers voted 60-40 for House Bill 2055, which would permit breweries to establish exclusive territories for the dis­tribution of beer. The proposal would repeal a 10-year-old Al­coholic Beverage Commission rule banning exclusive beer territories. 
H.B. 2055 now goes to the Sen­ate, where opponents hope to defeat it. 
Grant Monahan, president of the Indiana Retail Council, said his group probably will keep up an advertising campaign aimed at getting beer drinkers to call their lawmakers. 
"If this bill had come down on Wednesday or Thursday, and the public had had a chance to have input, I think the vote would have been dif­ferent," said Monahan. 
A group of retailers took out a full-page advertisement in The Indianapolis Star on Tues­day to argue against the bill, claiming it will boost beer prices substantially. 
Rep. Marc Carmichael, D­Muncie, denied his bill would do that. He argued that "in the long run, it will allow beer prices to go down." 
Carmichael claimed the ABC rule "literally turned an indus­try upside down." He charged the rule was a deliberate at­tempt to shift sales of beer from one group of distributors to another. 
The ABC rule has forced many local, family-owned dis­tributorships out of business, said Carmichael, who left his job with a South Bend dis­tributor after the rule was ap­proved. If left unchecked, the rule could lead to creation of a few large distributorships that would control many brands of beer, he said. 
Indiana now has about 80 dis­tributors, compared with more than 200 when the ABC rule took effect, said Carmichael. 
Carmichael argued that 

eventually that trend could then I will call the shots," said force up beer prices by putting Rep. Donald Nelson, R­control of all brands in the Indianapolis. hands of a few distributors. By "There's no question the contrast, he and other sup­price will go up," said Rep. J. porters of the bill claimed, Jeff Hays, D-Evansville. He competition among breweries said a recent spot check in Ken­would hold down beer prices if tucky and Illinois showed beer 
H.B. 2055 took effect. prices there 38 to 70 cents more 
However, opponents of the per six pack than they were in bill said it would force beer Evansville. prices up immediately. All other states permit Retailers couldn't shop around breweries to establish their dis­for the best price for a brand tribution territories. but would be forced to buy it Other opponents claimed the from the exclusive distributor bill was attempting to turn for their area, opponents of the back the clock to a time when bill said. every community could sup­
"If all the outlets have to port a beer distributor who had come to me to get the product, an exclusive contract . 
Wish your friends a happy 

birthday with Observer jMt advertising. ~ C Call 239-6900 0 
M 
A T H 
1 0 
1 
A public service message from The Observer 

r................................................................................. 
IINVEST IN AN INTERNATIONAL! ~ EXPERIENCE ~ 
I AT SAINT LOUIS UNNERSITY'S MADRID II CENTER SUMMER ANOOR FALL-SPRING I 
~ 89-90 ACADEMIC YEAR. BUSINESS,I ADMINISTRATION, HISPANIC STUDIES,I POLITICAL SCIENCE, ETC. FOR ~ INFORMATION  I ~ ~ I  
I  PHONE 1 (800) 325-6666  ~  
~  ~ 

................................................................................... 
Wednesday, March 1, 1989 


English-speakers lose Quebec's lingual battle 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL-It appeared the French and English lan­guages could live together in Quebec after separatist fervor abated nearly a decade ago, but the struggle resumed in December and French appears to have won. 
New issues arise constantly, such as whether the inside of a bus is really outside for sign purposes, and the answer al­most every time is that the signs must be only in French. The English-speaking minority, although dis­gruntled, appears to accept that the fight is lost. 
"Resigned is probably the right catchword," said Donald Taylor, a psychology professor at McGill University. 
Language is "a symbol of identity and it also is a resource that has associated power, and status, and success and access:' he said. "So these ap­parently minor events evoke ·:ery primary feelings.'' 
Quebec was a battleground of culture and language in the 1970s between the 81 percent with French heritage and a minority with a cultural kin­ship to Ontario and the other English-speaking provinces. 
Power shifted to the French­speaking majority in those years but the separatist tide ebbed after 1980, and with it the dispute over language, when Quebec voters rejected a sovereignty referendum. 
Then came a ruling by the Supreme Court of Canada in December that a 1977 Quebec law requiring all signs to be in French was unconstitutional. The court said French could be required to predominate on all signs but other languages could not be prohibited. 
The provincial government, which has broader powers than state governments in the United States, overrode the decision with new legislation for the language on signs. 
Bill 178, as it is known, re­quires that all outdoor signs still be solely in French, but for the first time since 1977 allowed bilingual indoor signs. 

Wednesday, March 1, 1989 page 7
The Observer 



U.S. economic growth slowest of last two years 
Associated Press from an initial report a month ago, economists labeled the 
WASHINGTON-The eco­new GNP statistics disturbing nomy grew at a lackluster an­because of the weakness in nual rate of 2 percent in the trade, the speed-up in inflation final three months of 1988, the and an acceleration of con­slowest pace in two years, sumer spending. reflecting a worsening trade deficit and the lingering effects "The shape of the economy of the summer drought, the looks worse than we thought," government said Tuesday. said David Wyss, senior finan­
cial economist for Data Re­
The Commerce Department sources Inc., of Lexington,said the slowdown in the gross Mass. "All the changes were in national product, the total out­the wrong direction." put of goods and services, was accompanied by a pickup in the Economists were concerned inflation rate as food prices and because the new GNP report the costs of imports both rose. showed that the country's trade 
While the 2 percent overall imbalance worsened even mated during the fourth quar­ter as imports grew at an an­nual rate of 13 percent, swamping a 7 percent gain in exports. 

recession expected by end of 1990, page 8 
Consumer spending rose at a robust 3.5 percent annual rate, too fast given current con­straints on production result­ing from tight labor markets and high operating rates, economists said. The jump in consumer spending, which .went primarily to big-ticket items such as cars, also showed that Americans' appetite for 

figure was unchanged more than previously esti-foreign goods is unabated. 
some people carry our . compatibility a bit too far 

Free mouse and up to $100 off with any 286 LP computer purchase! 
W!20Mb IIIU'd driwt w/40Mb IIIU'd drlJe 3.5"jTDppy 3.5"j1Dppy 

w!ZMM-U9 Amber or While Ploosplfer molliiDr Rq. $2108 $2552 Now $1997 $2441 
w/ZCM-1390 RGB AMiog color molliiDT Rq. $2330 S2n4 Now $2219 $2663 
w/ZCM·U$10 FTM color molliiDr Rq. $2441 $2885 Now $2386 
$2830 


What does Zenith D•• Systems' compatibility mean to you' Venatility. Word processing, desktop publishing and ail your fuhlre business software that runs on the industr\' standard: oos•. 
For more information contact: 
Office of University Computing Notre Dame Computing Store Room 25 Computer I Math Building 239-7477 




:Jf*''N 1 data
systems 
THE QUAUTY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON· 
WS.WI~ aNI Je.t:XJS 1ft NJ111r~ tr.dem~rill of Mlcn.oft Corp. SprcMI prtdfll aft'IT Saoc! 0111)1 ~ pu~ !~">~.~, 7A'~h QMltlct(l) .... I bow by ltlldtMJ, flwlty lfld llllff for Uwlr OW II liM. ~0 "'hrt diKWnU app!y Ltmt: OM !I(':"'l"d. C'OiftJ'Utf'l' atld OM rN!HIItor prr tr~dlvldualln lilY 12-,.,...~tt. ptnod. Prk'P!I•ub1Pc". to c!ull'ltt ,..l!hCJ.I~ rrtl~ :~!!'(. 7e~~· )ttl;,,...~· 

"The surge in consumption pulled in more fmports witn the result that the deterioration in the trade deficit was worse than previously assumed," said Jerry Jasinowski, chief economist of the National As­sociation of Manufacturers. 
It marked the second con­secutive quarter that the GNP trade deficit worsened and served to emphasize economists' contention that America's trade woes are a long way from being solved. 
The fourth quarter figure was depressed by the lingering effects of last summer's drought. Without the drought effects, the economy would have expanded at a 3.1 percent rate. 
On the inflation front, a GNP price measure ·that reflects changing consumption pat­terns rose at an annual rate of 
5.3 percent in the fourth quar­ter, up from a 4.7 percent rate of increase in the third quarter. 
In another economic report Tuesday, the National Associ­ation of Realtors said existing single-family home sales fell a sharp 7.4 percent in January to an annual rate of 3.63 million units. The median price of a home rose 3.2 percent to $91,500. 

Soviet magazine says gov't told ·'political lies' 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-A prominent state-run magazine has scath­ingly criticized the Communist Party, accusing it of spreading "political lies" that have deceived the Soviet people for generations. 
The unprecedented attack in the literary monthly Novy Mir also questioned the rationale of the 20 million-member party's legal monopoly on power, enshrined by the 1977 Constitu­tion, and says genuine democracy is impossible until the party permits open dissent in its ranks. 
Even in the franker atmo­sphere fostered by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's cam­paign for "glasnost," or greater openness, such harsh criticism of Communist Party practices in an official Soviet publication would have recently seemed impossible. 
The article, by widely known sociologist Igor M. Klyamkin, also hints at the central paradox of Gorbachev's blueprint for political change, by noting that Soviet "democratization" is taking place in a system where one party has declared itself soci­ety's sole legitimate ruler. 
The criticism comes at a time when Soviets are prepar­ing for their first national mul­ticandiate elections. 



Business 
Wednesday, March 1, 1989
page 8 

Economists expect recession by end of 1990 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The eco­nomy will slow substantially in 1989 with rising inflation and higher interest rates likely to topple the country into a reces­sion before the end of next year, the nation's top business economists predicted Monday. 
The National Association of Business Economists said a survey of its members found them slightly more optimistic about growth prospects for this year than they were three months ago. 
But by lopsided numbers, the economists were still predict­ing that the most likely date for the start of the next recession was 1990. 
Three out of four of the economists surveyed expected a new recession sometime in the next two years. However, the number predicting a downturn in 1989 dropped from 40 percent to 19 percent in the latest survey. 
Jay Woodworth, president of the association, said that economists were more optimis­tic about 1989 in part because of signs that auto sales, retail spending and housing construc­tion were holding up even with the increase in interest rates. 
"The business economists feel that this expansion is not at the end of its string yet. We probably have another year or so to go," Woodworth, senior domestic economist at Bankers Trust Co. of New York, said at a news briefing. 
The new survey was taken before the latest round of credit-tightening on the part of the Federal Reserve Board. Last Friday, the Fed boosted its discount rate, the interest it charges to make loans to fin­ancial institutions, to 7 percent. A hike in the discount rate is the most dramatic signal the central bank can send of its in­tentions to push interest rates higher to dampen an over­heated economy. 
The business economists ex­pressed strong support for the Fed's inflation-fighting battle, 

Small firms can profit by better college relations 
Special to The Observer 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.-Can small, high­technology firms benefit from improved relation­ships with colleges and uni­versities? 
Apreliminary study of 200 high-growth firms says "yes, .. but the study indi­cates that universities and industry need to clarify their needs and expectations. 
The study was conducted by two Purdue University researchers to gather data on how small firms develop and maintain relationships with colleges and univer­sities. The study was de­signed to gather data prior to a more comprehensive in­vestigation. 
In general, executives feel that universities need to be more practical in their re­
··· search and more responsive 
){•. 
to the needs of industry, says Greg Legan, assistant to the head of Purdue's Depart­ment of Computer Science and co-researcher for the study. 
While executives place high priority on better relationships, they demon­strate little willingness to in­vest in developing those relationships, says Legan. 
"Only eight of the res­
ponding firms have a full­
time university relations co­
ordinator, although 58 
percent of the respondents 
have an employee with that 
as a part-time responsibil­
ity," he says. 
''Our research.and obser­vations suggest thatJhe col­lege relations position in most small companies is a low-priority position with ex-•• tremely high turnover.'' 

with 70 percent expecting the board to boost interest rates further in the next six months. Woodward said the inflation­
ary pressures, if they do not 
start receding, would likely 
take their toll on the expansion, 
which has already lasted a 
peacetime record of six years. 
"Inflation rates of 5 percent to 5.25 percent are too high to be consistent with long-term growth and over time they would send the economy into a recession," he said. 
The median forecast for growth this year, as measured by the gross national product, was 2.7 percent, up slightly from a 2.5 percent estimate made by the business economists three months ago. The economy grew at a four­year high of 3.8 percent last year. 
The Bush administration has based its first budget on an es­timate that the economy will slow only modestly in 1989 to a growth rate of 3.2 percent, but this estimate is about one-half percentage point higher than 

Discount Rate 
Interest rate Fed. Reserve Board charges on loans to financial institutions 

July Sept Nov Jan Mar May July Sept Nov Jan Feb 
1987 1988 1989 
Source: Federal Reserve Bulletin 
most private forecasters. 
The administration is count­
ing on faster growth to bring in 
more revenues and help it 
lower the budget deficit with­
out resorting to higher taxes. 
On the question of interest 
rates, the business economists 
see short-term rates hitting a 
peak of 8.5 percent this year 
The Observer 
and then beginning to decline to 7.8 percent by the end of 1989. 
The administration is forecasting substantially lower rates for this year, a projection that also makes the deficit look smaller on paper because it lowers government borrowing costs. 



Nicaragua hit by hyperinflation 
Associated Press 

MANAGUA, Nicaragua-The young businesswoman looked tense and worried when the morning papers brought the news of the cordoba's fifth devaluation this year. 
The government's latest devaluation of the national cur­rency meant only one thing: higher prices for food and transport; higher costs for doing business; yet another round of belt-tightening. 
"If we ate meat three times a week, now we'll eat it once a week and so on until we become vegetarians," the woman said, toying with the pencil at her desk. "But even vegetables are expensive--when you can find them." 
The woman and her husband are urban professionals in their early 30s with a small business. They are expecting their third child. 
In private conversations, the two spoke of the hardships the middle class is enduring as a result of Nicaragua's economic crisis and the thought that crosses so many people's minds: pack up and leave for the United States, where many have relatives and friends. 
The devaluation of the cor­doba is part of the govern­ment's efforts to halt hyper­inflation. 
To control runaway inflation that reached 20,000 percent in 1988 and 97 percent in January alone, the government is firing more than 30,000 workers, slashing public spending and tightly restricting credit. 
"You keep cutting back and cutting back (on the household budget), but now I'm wonder­ing what else I can eliminate," the woman added. 
"And if that's us and people like us," she said, leaning for­ward to emphasize her point, "can you imagine what poor people are going through?" 
Poor and middle-class people are leaving the country in droves, undeterred even by a get-tough U.S. immigration policy that took effect last Tuesday. 
Despite a tripling of the price for a new passport, Nicaraguarans still flock to im­migration offices. 
At the new rate, a typical monthly salary of 200,000 cor­dobas is worth $52. Many professionals earn up to 500,000 cordobas a month, which trans­lates to only $131. A new pas­sport costs 150,000 cordobas. 
A senior Western diplomat said figures compiled from various sources indicate that from 1979--when the leftist San­dinistas came to power-­through 1987, Nicaraguara lost about 8,500 professionals. 
The diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said about 2,000 professionals and business people left the country in 1988 alone--despite the sig­ning of a preliminary peace ac­cord in March. · 

Employee stock ownership plans not always a good deal 
By LOUIS RUYKEYSER Business Writer 
You're an ordinary working stiff in a big corporation. Sud­denly your mean old boss starts talking as if we were the rich Uncle Harry you always wished you had. Out of the goodness of his heart, he tells you, he's going to give you and the rest of the labor force a piece of the action. 
How good a deal is this real­ly? And is it just possible that somebody along the way is get­ting snookered? 
Could be--even though there's a growing trend among major corporations to adopt ESOPs (employee stock ownership plans) that give their employees a stake in the business. Companies like Texaco, Proctor & Gamble, Polaroid, J.C. Penny, Avis, and Hospital Corporation of America have gone this route, swelling the number of ESOP plans to an estimated 8,000. 

ESOPs have always been a sort of tax dodge. Low-interest loans are made by an outside lender to a trust set up for a company's employees. The trust buys shares in the com­pany. The company gets the money. But unliuke other forms of borrowing, the com­pany's cash contributions to the ESOP (with which these loans are actually repaid) are fully deductible, principle as well as interest. 
The leading evangelist for ESOPs is San • Francisco lawyer Louis Kelso, who made a major convert in 1973 of Sen. Russel Long, then chairman of the Senate Finance Commit­tee. Highly favorable law was written. The idea was that it would help privately owned companies whose owners wanted to retire, and would give workers the opportunity to become capitalists, even on a small scale. 

From the start, there were serious questions about using the tax code for this purpose. Cr1tics ranged across the eco­nomic spectrum from Milton Friedman to Paul Samuelson, who denounced the plan as a loophole. 
But perhaps the most serious reservation was that ESOPs were making an implied prom­ise on which they might not be able to deliver. ESOPs look like retirement plans and have been launched mostly through the federal penion laws. Congress, however, exempted ESOPs from key pension safeguards that could spell dis­
aster for a floundering compa­ny. 
In other words, instead of a pension plan based on sensible diversification, workers, might be putting all their eggs in the same basket from which they pluck their paychecks. If the basket collapses, as companies are known to do, look out! 
Indeed, when I pressed Kelso on this once, he acknowledged that he would not recommend ESOPs for "companies that are unsuccessful, companies 
that are unprofitable," adding frankly: "It's no substitute for good management." 
Now, to these traditional con­cerns about ESOPs, comes a new one. Within the last year or two, many large firms have jumped on the ESOP band­wagon as a financing vehicle to make leveraged buyouts, prevent hostile takeovers, rid themselves of unprofitable divisions, or just reap rewards by selling out at astronomical prices to the firms' employees while giving them only a pas­sive role in managment. 
Joseph Blasi, management professor and author of the recent book "Employee Ownership: Revolution or Ripoff?" put it to me bluntly: "All too often. . . employee ownership is abused by managers who exploit it for their own purposes." 
At its best, employee owner­ship can provide financial se­curity and job protection. But workers offered such a plan should remember the oldest rule in investing: caveat emptor. Otherwise, they may find themselves in the goats ... in an ESOPs fable. 


Viewpoint
Wednesday, March 1, 1989 page 9 
The new modern version of Heaven 
Editor's note: The following fictional article is a satirical account which represents the author's personal views. 
Some time ago I had a very interest­ing experience during one of my late­night visits to the Grotto. No sooner did I reach for my rosary beads than Our Lady, in person, appeared to me, saying "I've been meaning to ask you a favor, Glenn. There have been some pretty strange things happening in Heaven lately, and I'd like you to take a look around. It seems that some nit­wits have staged a coup, and are trying to destroy my son's Church. I'll give you an assumed identity." As soon as I replied "Sure thing, old girl," I im­mediately found myself standing on a platform of clouds, underneath an arch with the inscription 'The Pearly Gate.' 
Glenn Fogarty 
with no apologies 

A bespectacled man in a three-piece suit soon approached me, just as I was remarking, "So, this must be Heaven." The man replied: 
"Well, we liberal theologians are still debating whether this place actually exists or not. When we decide that it does exist, then it will. Not a moment sooner.'' 
"Who are you?" I asked. 
"Oh, forgive me," he replied. "I'm Fr. Charles Current. I'll be your guide to Heaven. You must be Mr. Fogarty, the rep from the Church of Atheism. Atheism is such a grand faith. We liberal theologians have been toying with the idea of incorporating it into our Catholic theology, you know. We must be ecumenical! " 
"Well, uh..." 
"Let me show you around. You'lllike our new setup. You've heard the saying 'All roads lead to Rome'? Well, we've completely rerouted Heaven's highway system. Now all roads lead away from Rome! Aren't we clever?" 
Riding in a cloud-car with Fr. Cur­rent down Karl Rahner Boulevard, the main drag, I was able to peruse many of Heaven's new features. One could see shopping malls, teeming with won­derful stores like "Ray Hunthausen's Annul-mart, $1.98 Annulment Spe­cials!," "Andrew Greeley's Adult Bookshop," and "Liturgies R Us." There was even a multiplex cinema showing round-the-clock screenings of 'The Last Temptation of Christ' in every theatre, with free commentary from eminent theologians after each show. Fr. Current turned to me and said: 
"Isn't it just wonderful? I bet you never thought Heaven was as good as this. No more 'New Jerusalem' stuff. There's my favorite store over there! It's called 'The Religious Super­market.' You can buy any doctrine or heresy you want there, provided that it isn't approved by the Vatican.'' 
"Can I even buy voodoo or paganism, and incorporate it into liberal theol­ogy?" 
"Oh, sure. I do that all the time. Their Shinto is especially tasty. I make my favorite dishes with the 'Shake &Bake' Religion mix. Just put the ingredients you want in a bag, shake, put it in the oven, and you have your own gourmet heresy! Last night I used some Manic­haeism, some Gnosticism, and just plain old Hedonism, mixed it with Ar­rogance and a dash of paprika, and voila! Charles Current Casserole!" 
Wondering where all the 'big' people in Heaven were, I began to ask Current a few questions: 
"Ah, Fr. Current, where's this Jesus fellow?" 
"Well, he's under guard in our new Schillebeeckx Prison. Would you believe that he actually denied that that fine film was about him? Or that he wasn't actually a woman? He even sup­ports 'Humanae Vitae! I suspect the guy's a Vatican agent.'' 

"Mary?" 

"Same place. Annoying woman. Al­ways trying to steal the glory from us theologians. By the way, I highly doubt that she was a virgin.'' 
"St. Paul?" 

"That fascist, sexist pig? We locked him up long ago. He and that Jesus char­acter just don't belong in the twentieth century. They both oppose women's or­dination, too.'' 
"St. Michael the Archangel?" 
"A warmonger! A foe of peace and justice! We burned him at the stake last week. No use for intolerant people like him in our new heaven.'' 
Soon thereafter, Current stopped the cloud-car, saying, "Well, we're here!" 
"Where?" 

"Why, Red Square, downtown Managua! In honor of our favorite Mar­xist slave pen, of course. Liberation theology, you know. We're going to erect statues of the New Holy Trinity in the center of the square this week! Marx, Lenin, and Daniel Berrigan. Has a nice theological ring to it, don't you think?" 
Suddenly a loudspeaker started blaring the message: 
"Silence. This is Big Doubter speak­ing. Today you shall think the thought 'You can be too loyal to the Pope. You can be to emphatic about the divinity of Christ.'" 
"Words of Wisdom," Current said. "Over there's our new Buddhist Temple, the centerpiece of our neW\ Heaven. Ecumenism, you know. We have a Catholic chapel over here, for decorative purposes. We only play one hymn, 'Non Serviam.'" 
"So I see. What does God have to say about all this?" 
"God? We're not on speaking terms with Him. If we got involved with God, it would send a chilling effect over all theological innovation.'' 
"What a pity.'' 

"Would you believe that He actually had th~ .. l:l.!IQl:lCity to ~ay t_~t 'He wa!i being patient with us, but that He would be forced to discipline us soon'? Dis­cipline the Third Magisterum? Never! I suspected He was a Vatican stooge all along.'' 
"Well, can I speak to Him?" 
"No, but you can speak to the person we've appointed to be 'God' in His stead: Hans Kung, Kung of Kings, Lord of Liberal Theology. There he is, sitting on his high pedestal now!" 
I crossed Red Square to the pedestal and asked, "What in the world are you doing up there, Herr Kung?" 
He replied, "Ah, sir, I walk upon the air and look down on the Vatican from a superior standpoint." 
I answered, "Well, I suppose it's bet­ter that you sneer at the Pope from a pedestal in the air than do it from the ground.'' 
Precisely. Only by dangling my mind in the heavens and mingling my rare thought with ethereal air could I ever achieve strict theological arrogance." 
I replied, "Well, that's all very nice," and turning to Fr. Current said, "I think I've had my fill of the new Heaven.'' 
"Aren't you going to stay for our Woodstock Hedonistic Lovefest? It'll be just like the 60's! Free abortions, too. Abortion isn't a black and white issue, you know.. .'' 
"I think I'll take my leave. Mary, if you'll do the honors?" Suddenly I found myself back at the Grotto. Was I ever glad to be back at Notre Dame, a real Catholic place. Walking across campus, however, I noticed an an­nouncement proclaiming "This week! Bus trips to see 'The Last Temptation of Christ'.'' Well, maybe not so Catholic after all. 
Glenn Fogarty is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

P.O. Box a· 
Asst. Treasurer's job now open 
Dear Editor: 
Each year we see and hear about the many activities offered by the student organizations on campus. However, most of us do not realize that our $55 student activity fee provides the fun­ding for these various groups and the activities they sponsor. In fact, close to $400,000 is collected from the student activity fee and the student body trea­surer is responsible for budgeting this sum to the many organizations which rely on it for their operations. These include: student government, SUB, the class governments, each dorm and the Hall Presidents' Council, the Judicial and Off-Campus Councils, and over 120 other clubs and organizations on campus. 
Once the budgeting process has been completed in April of each year, the student body treasurer is responsible for maintaining an accurate record of all finances and dispersing the all­ocated funds to the organizations men­tioned above. The student body trea­surer serves on the Student Senate, the Student Union Board Steering Commit­tee (the monitoring board for SUB), the Student Business Board (the monitor­ing board for the student-run busi­nesses in LaFortune as well as Ad­works), and as chairman of the Student Senate Budget and Finace Committee, where it is the treasurer's duty to see that each eligible organization on campus receives funding for the follow­ing year. 
If you are interested in sharing some of this responsibility, student govern­ment needs you. Each year in March, interviews are held to select someone to serve as the assistant student body 

treasurer. Applicants must be sop­homores in the College of Business Ad­ministration.~During the chosen appli­cant's junior year, he or she will serve as the assistant treasurer in a learning capacity to become familiar with the financial operations of student govern­ment. Then, on April 1, 1990, he or she will assume the role of student body treasurer. Thus, the person chosen will have the opportunity to serve under two different student government ad­ministrations. 
As the current assistant student body treasurer, I would encourage anyone eligible to apply for the position. This past year has been both challenging and rewarding in helping me prepare for the future. Through this job, I have been able to gain practical experience and help make important decisions. In many ways, this job has been compa­rable to a summer internship. I have gained a greater understanding of busi­ness, leadership qualities, and experi­ence in dealing with people in general. I am looking forward to sharing my experience with the new assistant trea­surer next year. 
Applications for the assistant student body treasurer's position may be ob­tained in the Treasurer's Office on the second floor of LaFortune, between 12 and 4 p.m. this week. All applications are due this Thursday at 4 p.m., and interviews will be held after spring break. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to stop by or call the Treasurer's Office, or to pursue this interest. The position of assistant stu­dent body treasurer provides a great learning experience, one which can only be built upon in the future. 
Guy W eismantel Assistant Student Body Treasurer Feb. 27, 1989 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 

50 HOIA/'1? YOU GREATI TWO MAJ<E; ale HAl? OUT 7V!?AY2 AReAL 
\ /Nll3R&ST­

.. 
at& 60TIN A CAB 7D GO 5&& AlrlOVI&, BUT 7H& CABBI&JJII?N'T 
~l3N6USH, 50/A/13 CNlJ!W 
UPt05T IN BROOKt.YN. 50We 
PUNTe/J 7H/3 MOVI&, ANI? 7WI< 
BUT IT tt/A5 FR/3CZING ON THB 
FJfACJ-1, ~fAit CAM81-KJ1rtf3.JI.J5T 
IN Tl/rl/3 7D Slf8A WA-mR MAIN 
8U!<STACI<tJSS 7HB 5J7?1ZT! /A/13 
~AYW ANI?tt/ATCHWUNTil-"!1-1& 

tuHATHAPPENW 
UM... I
7D WNCH, NAP, 
fEt.T lf/8
IJOCTrJR'$ APfrJINT­
tum/N
M&NT,PtAY~ 
ARLIT. 
'I tried to tell them that this crisis will pass, that you have to keep moving forward.' 
-Tom Landry 
(saying goodbye to the Dallas Cowboys after 29 years as coach) 



Viewpoint
page 10 Wednesday, March 1, 1989 


The power of the poor 
Editor's note: The author ofthis article participated in an Urban Plunge at St. Josaphat Church in Chicago from Jan. 11-13. 
One of the main issues that arose on my first night of the Urban Plunge as Fr. Grassi led us around his parish neighborhood was that being poor means more than a lack of material goods. It also means a lack of political strength, so that the poor often feel helpless about changing or controlling their situation. I learned that in this atmosphere, the Church becomes a 
John Halpin 
guest column 
trusted friend, the only resort a person may have in asking for help. Fr. Grassi explained that although the Church also has limited power, it can serve as a voice for the poor, and work to organize them so that they can increase their own power and begin to feel more of a sense of control over their destiny. 
The very next day this point became a vivid reality when we visited the parish of St. Agatha and their ever­optimistic and energetic priest, Fr. Mike Ivers. Fr. Ivers gave each of us an individual tour of his area, and as he was walking around with Jim Mer­curio, they came across a lady who had just then been evicted from her house. Apparently there was a dispute over ownership of the house and the pay­ment of property taxes. This is a legal problem that Fr. Ivers could not deal with himself, so he decided to help this lady by calling a lawyer he knew. Fur­thermore, it just so happened that a reporter for the Chigago Tribune was also on the tour. He asked the lady if she would like press coverage of what had happened to her. If the lawyers could not help her, possibly the power of public opinion could. 
The situation was really a very strik­ing one. Here was a woman standing in front of the home she had woken up in that morning, and now there was a group of men putting boards over all 

the windows and the door of that house. 
The sensation I felt as I watched this 
scene was one of corruption--a corrup­
tion of those in control of this situation. There seemed to be a total disregard for this woman's rights and welfare. I wondered to myself who this woman would have turned to if Fr. Ivers was not available to her, or if she lived in an area where the Church was very pas­sive. 
Of course, I do not really know the complete circumstances of why she was being evicted, and it is possible that there is a good and legitimate rea­son why she should not be allowed to live there. However, even if this is so, the lack of respect shown for this lady is inexcusable no matter what the cir­cumstances. The attitude displayed towards her I think, may reflect a gen­eral overall attitude that landlords and the Chicago government take toward the poor. I found it very interesting to learn how important the Church can be 
also said he would like to see his lead­ership role in the community taken over by members of the community it­self. He stressed that one must not take a paternal attitude towards the poor. as an advocate for the poor, in this climate of lack of respect and concern. In conjunction with this, Fr. Ivers 
One should help the poor so that even­tually they will be able to help them­selves. In his Church there is a painting of the Last Supper, and all those seated around the table are represented by various black leaders. This is the Church's way of being sensitive to the needs of its people and identifying with them. Fr. Ivers understands the impor­tance of role models in a child's devel­opment, and this painting, combined with his efforts to develop Black leaders within the community, are ex­amples of how he is trying to provide these role models. 
John Halpin is a senior Arts and Letters pre-professional major. 

[ P.O. Box Q 

Prisoner's rights not 
0 

violated by US 

Dear Editor: 
I feel I must reply to Maura O'Siochain's letter criticizing our gov­ernment's handling of the United Kingdom's request for the extradition of Joseph Doherty. Ms. O'Siochain states Mr. Doherty has been held in this country for over five years without charge, in violation of his rights, while the U.K. has tried to extradite him for "political" crimes. 
Mr. Doherty, a member of the provisional Irish Republican Army, was convicted in the U.K. in 1981 of the murder of a British army captain. He escaped from prison that same year and fled to the United States, where he was arrested in 1983 for illegally enter­ing the country without a passport. The 
U.K. 
requested extradition, but Judge Sirozzo of the Southern District of New York ruled that Mr. Doherty's crimes came within the political activities ex­ception to the U.S.-U.K. extradition treaty existing at that time, and so he denied extradition. If that treaty was still in effect today, the reasoning be­hind Judge Sirozzo's ruling would deny extradition to the U.K. of those who bombed Pan Am flight 103. The U.S. Senate moved quickly to pass a new extradition treaty that retroactively in­cluded such political offenses as the murder of a British soldier. Since that time, he has been fighting extradition for the murder, and deportation to the 

U.K. 
(he is a British citizen) for his illegal entry into this country. She states that four other federal district court judges have ruled that Mr. Doherty's crimes were political. This is not correct. Judge Sirozzo's ruling is, unfortunately, not subject to appeal. Therefore, the U.S. government was forced to mount four separate col­lateral attacks (an attack questioning the proceedings, not the substantive ruling). All four were dismissed on procedural grounds, not because Mr. 


·--' ' 
Doherty's crimes were political. 
Mr. Doherty has not been held with­out charge, as she would have us to believe. He is free to leave this country at any time, as long as he is willing to return to the U.K. to serve out his life­sentence. His legal rights have been in no way violated in this country. 
She states that Mr. Doherty seeks po­litical asylum in the U.S. This also is not correct. He is trying to be ex­tradited to the Republic of Ireland, where he is only under a 10-year sen­tence for other crimes. I have no doubt these are political also. 
She tells us that the British legal sys­tem has been criticized by governments worldwide as being unfair to Irish defendants. This is true. The govern­ments of such countries as Cuba, Libya, and Iran have all been highly critical of Britisb justice. Fortunately, their opinions carry little weight in the UK or elseshere. 
She ends by saying that as an Irish­American I should be angered by this great travesty of justice. I do feel anger, but it is directed at those who would wrap a murderer in the Irish tri­color and try to convince me he's a vic­tim. 
Brian Martin Off-campus Feb. 27, 1989 
Freshman Advisory Council update 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to inform you of what the Freshman Advisory Council has been doing this year. The Freshman Advisory Council consists of a fresh­man representative from each dorm on campus to represent the freshmen of his or her dorm in the Notre Dame stu­dent government. The council meets once a week and has worked since early last semester to facilitate communica­tion between the class and student gov­ernment, as well as organizing and 
. 


-Ih~e-Obse.-~~r-­
--------&.-=Y~._ ~--­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the UmverSity of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. h does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of the admimstration of either institution. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board Commentaries. leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
sponsoring activities for our class such as Freshman Dare Night at Theodore's, Freshman Night at Beacon Bowl, the freshman ski trip (with the Saint Mary's freshman class), and the Valen­tine's Day balloon sale. The council has also worked with the Freshman year of Studies in organizing and executing such events as the freshman trips to Chicago and the snow party at Bendix Woods. The council is currently working on a class mass and a possible Freshman Formal this spring. 
We encourage any and all freshman to contact their dorm representative if they have any questions or suggestions, since our purpose is to serve you. The Freshman Office on the second floor of LaFortune is open five days a week and we welcome any freshman to stop by. 
Michael Ferguson President Ted Stumpf Vice-President Freshman Advisory Council Feb. 22, 1989 
Diversity not always desirable 
Dear Editor: 
English Department Chairman Joseph Buttigeig (The Observer, Feb. 
24) thinks that Notre Dame ought to honor Common Sense's two-year an­niversary. To the professor, it is a daring project accomplished by "a group of selfless student and faculty volunteers." It is a travesty of justice to Professor Buttigeig that Common Sense has not been recognized because it is a "voice of diversity." 
From reading Buttigieg's remarks, it would appear that Common Sense was a learned journal engineered by a group of brave and noble martyrs for the cause of The Truth. From reading Common Sense, it would appear that Buttigeig's judgment is serverely im­paired. This newspaper has published 
Editorial Board 
Ed1tor-in-Chiel  ... Chns Murphy  
Managing Ed1tor  Chns Donnelly  
News Editor  Regis Coccia  
News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin  
Viewpomt Edil#M  ......Dave Bruner  
Sports Ed1tor  ........... Marty Strasen  
Accent Editor  ................... Beth Healy  

Saint Mary's Editor .. ..............,. Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor . . . .. . . . . .. .... .. . . Michael Moran 
articles which are offensive to the Cath­olic faith. To refresh your memory, Professor, Common Sense writers have called Cardinal Ratzinger "a Nazi," they've published scandalously absurd articles about the late Monsignor Escriva and the Catholic lay group that he founded, Opus Dei, and of course, they've poked fun at our Holy Father, John Paul II. Perhaps the folks who produce Common Sense like to criticize everything under the sun which doesn't fit their "progressive" viewpoint, but these Catholic priests that they've of­fended are inspirational figures to mil­lions of Catholics the world over: Ratzinger serves in a critical post in the Vatican heirarchy, Escriva has been nominated for canonization by one third of the Church's bishops, and the Pope is the Vicar of Christ on earth. While priestly celibacy may be a "sexual disorder" to the Common Sense staff, to Catholics, it is a sign of a person who has responded to a calling from God to give himself entirely to the 
people as "alter Christus." Few things in the world are more beautiful than the priestly ministry. Yet to the folks behind Common Sense, it is something to be made fun of, an anachronism in our modern, "progressive" brave new world. 
It cannot_ be denied that Common Sense brings diversity to the Notre Dame media, but from the tone of some of its articles, it does not appear to be a good type of diversity. While every­one is entitled to his1ler opinion, there are limits to tolerance. When individ­uals blaspheme the sacred, when they live in a Catholic University, yet dem­onstrate very little respect for the Cath­olic faith, then they do not deserve our toleration because they do not respect our beliefs. For Professor Buttigieg to demand that we honor Common Sense, it would appear that we would be dis­honoring our Catholic faith. 
William Murray Holy Cross Hall Feb. 24, 1989 
1!!! 
015erations Board 
Business Manager John Oxnder Advertising Design Manager ......... Molly KiiiP.n Advertismg Manager L1nda Goldschmidt Production Manager Bernadene Shilts Systems Manager Mark Ridgeway Controller... Todd Hardiman Graphic Arts Manager.. Marga Bruns 

op1n1ons on campus. through leners. is encouraged 
Founded November 3,1966 
("")}·:· MEN'S SHORTS-SHORTS-SHORTS ~
A y
~ C Ocean Pacific -Catchit -Leggoons NOW $1299 
. W 
Tommy Hilfiger-180 South Reg. $26.00 ~ ~'zy~ 
. Ll COCOOONS 
COOL.~ GORE 
0 





CLOTHING CONCEPTS
q 
0 Presents
• ~ pr1ncc A MANUFACTURER'S DIRECT CLOTHING SALE SWGtCH~ 
"••o•...a~r~~ct •••aaaa.
C) 
Q) ___
(lifTBAl."K­

O')a: 0') 
~ 

t--.. 



3: t·H:!M111414·h•t~1f.h'
0 
~ 

FIENZA
z 
~ 



$1299
C/)2 
1.\155' NOW
a: c 
w ·c 


IO.. 
5 >
-
~ "§ 
z Q) 
->
<( ·­
~5 0~ 
OQ) 
<( > 
a: 0 
gz 
0"0 
() Q) 
,t 
() 0 
CJ) ~ 
:::><( 
I 
w (/)
=>t 
0 ·­
a: .c. 
:::> rJ) 
a..~ 
' Q) <( ~ Z(/) <(_. 
o.c 
z C) 
Q) 
~ 
>. 
~ 
Q) 
I 
rJ) 
~c 
Q) 
~ 



Men's Surf Tees by 
O.P. and Maui & Sons 
Reg. 1800 

Palmettos'r 
LADIES/JUNIORS SHORTS by PALMETTOS LATEST SPRING STYLES 
Reg. 24" $1299 
NOW 


(I) I)
' 
Tommy Hilfiger Men's Sportshirts & Shorts Current Styles! 
R~go;, $1299 


MEN'S SWEATSHIRTS SWEATPANTS by Famous Makers 
NOW $3~ 9 

MEN'S NEW
..:§ar &, 

BALANCE
.:#... L­

SHORTS 
JiC!C!bok ___(!Jorona 
A~ Extra 
MEN'S REEBOK·CORONA AVIA TEES UNIQUE PRINTS 
Aog.18" 




$599 
NOW 

!b~§ t£0§~[ID@[i'il(f1l@l ~Ia 
SPECIAL ASSORTMENT LIZ CLAIBORNE TOPS FOR SPRING 
If perfect 
$24.00 


$599 
NOW 


Men's Ocean Pacific Pre-Washed Woven 
Sh;rt~ 
Latest 
Styles 
Reg. $30.00 

$129 9 
NOW 



Wi&on 
Men's Wilson Heavyweight RUGBY SHIRTS Great Styles & Colors 
Reg 24~9 99 
Men's & Ladies' Union Bay Sportswear $799 Assortment Of Tops -Jeans -Slacks Tops-NOW $59 9 Great Value! NOW $999 
Reg. 15" Values Ta $40.00 Pants-

Main Ballroom-University Area 515 Dixieway N., South Bend 
I -·("') 
)>~ 
(J) -· 
CJ)<C
0 Q) 
::+::::J 
Cl) I 
C.)> ZQ> 
0 0" 
< Q) 
Cl) 
.3 
-<Q) 
I 
c< 
::::J -·
-·...,
<<C 
Cl) -· 
..., ::::J 
en -· 
;::;:Q> 
'< I 
"UO 
..., ­
-· ~ 
~Cl) en ~ 
z 
0 
=e 
-......~ 
<.0 <.0 
:0 
Cl) 
<C 
~ 
w 
0 
b 
0 


---------------. 

Accent
Wednesday, March 1, 1989 oage 11 
---~-­

KYM MACARTHUR accent writer 
W
hen the lights dim and the audience hushes, only one sound invades the movie theatre--the steady "drip, drip" of water. The audience is overwhelmed by the intricate layers of rich sensory images presented in the opening scene of "Tap." 
From the outset of "Tap," in which Max Washington (Gregory Hines) dances with a frantic nervousness in his jail cell, you know that you have to like tap dancing to like this appropriately-titled film. 
Max grew up a black kid in the ghetto with an extraordi­nary talent for dancing. Disil­lusioned by the poverty of his hard-working father, also a dancer, Max turns to crime. Although his shady career pays well, eventually the law catches up with him and Max lands in jail. 
Upon his release, Max returns to the familiar streets, taking a job as a dishwasher and waiting for a better offer. Amy, his ex­girlfriend (Suzzanne Douglas), and Little Mo (Sammy Davis Jr.), her fa­ther, are now running the dance studio once owned by Max's late father. Little Mo sees in Max the possibility of realizing his dream of in­tegrating tap and modern rock. Amy sees Max as a man she still loves, but isn't sure she can live with. 
Although the story line holds its own, the truly out­standing aspect of "Tap" is the choreography. Henry LeTang, a New York native who has worked with dancers and boxers alike, colors the film with memorable dance scenes. The rhythm is con­tagious, transmitting the pul­sating drama of life itself-­the tap dance is life. 
Writer I director Nick Castle merges two art forms, and is so successful due to the artistic capability of Hines, Davis, and Douglas. "Tap" is a movie which will make you tap your feet as well as touch your emotions, 
The hard edges of the real world are glossed-over, and extreme realists will object, but "Tap" certainly enter­tains. If you've had enough of reality--midterms, winter, bad SYR dates--surrender to the excitement of "Tap." 

Of>.TM£1>.L.\.1\liF 

'(tS. 'tl\1'\ fl. lbWL Of 
\Xl\'t '(OJ GJ 
Pf>.SI'{, BLA®, !JES::RIBE. 
COLO~LESS '\QIJR OI(N 
Sl\JPGE. FooD SOME­--..--. ~\\ERE £lSE? 

JANICE ARCHER accent writer 
W
hen a student drops a glass or breaks a bowl in the dining hall, heads turn to look and scattered cheers break out. This occassional embarassing moment may be funny to on-lookers. However, such an incident is funny only once or twice. One hour and a half of objects (often price­less ones) being destroyed be<!omes tedious. Unfortun­ately, this is exactly what happens in the new John Candy comedy, "Who's Harry Crumb?" 
There does happen to be a plot somewhere among the debris of ruined living rooms and offices. Harry Crumb (John Candy) is the last "in a long line of great Crumb detectives." He is called in by the home office to solve the kidnapping of Jennifer Downing, daughter of multi­millionaire P.J. Downing. 
The president of Crumb and 
Bill Watterson 

Crumb, Eliot Draisen (played by Jeffrey Jones) calls Harry to take this case based on his belief that Crumb is hope­lessly incompetent. This is because Draisen is actually the kidnapper, trying to get $10 million dollars from Downing. By doing this, he hopes to convince Downing's wife, Helen, to leave her hus­band for him and his new­found money. 
Draisen's obsession with Helen (played by Annie Potts) allows him to overlook the fact that she is only con­cerned with money. What he does not realize, however, is that Helen is actually plot­ting, with her tennis pro boyfriend, to kill Downing for his millions. It becomes Crumb's job to wade through this mess of greed and deceit. He eventually does, through no fault of his own. 
Candy, always willing to appear foolish to get a laugh, takes things too far in this film. In one visit to Downing's office, he gets bit­ten by a piranha and kills it, puts both hands into a trayful of fish hooks, and destroys an antique model of a ship along with the glass case it sits in. 
Not only is Crumb's clumsi­ness over-emphasized, but his considerable frame is of­ten taken advantage of for laughs. As one of his many subtle disguises, Crumb dresses as a jockey when he goes to the racetrack. He gets firmly stuck while talking on the phone in a booth designed for jockeys. 
Annie Potts does a wonder­ful job as Helen Downing, the cheating, greedy wife. This role is so unlike the one she has on the TV series, "Designing Women," that it is fun to watch. The sight of her repeatedly smacking and berating her brainless boyfriend is hysterical. She plays the part well of a wo­man who really does not care what man she is with, as long as he has money. 
Jeffrey Jones also makes the movie more enjoyable with his performance as Draisen. In this film, his obsessed character is some­what similar to the high school principal he played in "Ferris Bueller's Day Off." The lengths Draisen goes to so as to insure his future with Helen are unbelievable. His exterior look of a successful business executive amusingly contrasts with his inner sleaziness. 
The promotions for this movie claim Crumb has "nerves of steel, body of iron, and brain of stone." The brain part quickly becomes apparent. Crumb never really solves any part of the case. The solutions fall directly into his bumbling path. 
This film fails when it tries to imitate the style of others such as "Airplane" and "The Naked Gun." The humorous slapstick quality of these movies is nowhere to be found in "Who's Harry Crumb?" The only crumbs anyone should see are those found on dining hall tables. 

~-----------------------------------------·-------­
Sports WednesdaYwednesday,Februa~15,1989
~e 12 

Sports Lists __ College Basketball College Baseball NBA Standings 
AP Top Twenty College Baseball Poll 
Eastern Conference The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The The lop 20 college baseball learns in !he Col­Atlantic Division Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­legiate Baseba/1-ESPN poll, wilh first-place votes in w L Pet. GB theses, !his season's records, lola! points and pre­parentheses. this season's records. total points and 
New Vorl< 37 18 .673 vious week rankings. Points based on 20-19-18-17 previous week rankings. Notre Dame opponents are Philadelphia 29 24 .547 7 
etc. Noire Dame opponents are italicized. italicized. Boston 25 .463
29 11.5 Washington 22 31 .415 14 

1. 
Arizona (54) 22-3 1,305 2 1. Texas A&M 13-0 489 6 New Jersey 21 35 .375 16.5 

2. 
Georgetown (5) 22-3 1,219 3 2. Florida 13-2 485 1 Charlotte 39 .278


15 21.5 

3. Indiana {5) 23-5 1,122 4 3. Miami (Fla.) 8-3 487 2 Central Division 
4. Oklahoma (1) 24-4 1,083 1 4. Texas 10-8 479 3 Cleveland 41 12 .n4 
5. North Carolina 24-5 1,052 5 5. Louisiana State 9-1 478 10 Detroit 36 15 .706 4 
6. 
Syracuse (1) 23-5 990 6 6. Florida State 9-3 475 5 Milwaukee 34 18 .654 6.5 

7. 
Missouri 23-6 941 7 7. Arizona State 14-5 470 9 Allan!a 35 20 .636 7 


8. 
Illinois 23-4 846 10 8. Mississippi Slate 2-0 467 11 Chicago 32 21 .604 9 

9. 
Duke 21-5 825 9 9. Cal State-Long Beach 15-0 466 20 Indiana 13 40 .245 28 


10. 
Michigan 21-6 676 13 10. Oklahoma State 3-2 461 4 

11. 
Iowa 21-6 590 14 11. San Jose State 15-0 458 18 Western Conference 


12. 
Seton Hall 23-5 588 15 12. Cal State-Fullerton 7-4 453 8 Midwest Division 

13. 
Stanford 23-5 511 16 13. California 13-3 450 12 w L Pet. GB 


14. Louisville 19-7 496 8 14. Wichita Slate 3-1 449 13 Utah 34 22 .607 
15. 
West Virginia 23-3 373 11 15. Arizona 15-6 445 14 Houston 31 23 .574 2 

16. 
Florida State 19-6 223 12 16. Southern Cal 14-4 442 7 Denver 30 25 .545 3.5 

17. 
St. Mary's (Calij.) 24-3 184 19 17. Arkansas 5-0 439 17 Dallas 28 25 .528 4.5 18.· Nevada-Las Vegas 20-7 176 16 18. Georgia Tech 5-2 437 15 San Antonio 13 41 .241 20 


19. 
Ball State 23-2 138 20 19. Oklahoma 3-0 431 19 Miami 8 45 .151 24.5 

20. 
North Carolina Slate 18-7 125 17 20. South Aorida 8-3 425 Pacific Division 


21. Clemson 3-1 422 16 L.A. Lakers 37 17 .685 
Others receiving votes: Louisiana State 122, 22. South Carolina 3-1 421 21 Phoenix 34 19 .642 2.5 Memphis State 65, LaSalle 51, Evansville 44, Aorida 23. Brigham Young 4-1 418 22 Seattle 32 20 .615 4 33, Georgia Tech 27, Texas-EI Paso 8, Georgia 24. Fresno State 8-6 414 Golden State 30 21 .588 5.5 Southern 7, Pittsburgh 6, Texas 6, Kansas State 5, 25. Washington State 0-0 413 25 Portland 26 26 .500 10 Arl<ansas-Little Rock 4, Providence 4, Temple 4, Sacramento 15 
38 .283 21.5 Arkansas 3, Wisconsin 3, Boise State 2, Oregon L.A. Clippers 11 45 .196 27 State 2, Minnesota 1. 
College Hockey 
Wednesday's Games Allanla at Boston New Jersey at WashingtonCollage Hockey Poll

The finalists for the Associated Press col­Utah at Detroit
The top 20 college hockey teams in the NCAA
lege basketball Player of the Year and Coach New Yorl< at Milwaukee
Division I poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, Golden State at L.A. lakers
of the Year: 

this season's records, total points and previous week Philadelphia at Sacramento
Players rankings. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. D Mookie Blaylock, Oklahoma D Sherman Douglas, Syracuse 1. (tie) Harvard (2) 24-2-0 58 t2 NHL Standings
Minnesota (2) 31-8-3 58 t2
D Jay Edwards, Indiana 

3. Michigan Slate 30-7-1 52 1
D Sean Elliott. Arizona 

4. Boston College 20-8-4 47 4
D Parvis Ellison. Louisville WALES CONFERENCE
5. Lake Superior State 24-8-6 43 5 Adams Division
D Danny Ferry, Duke 6. Northern Michigan 23-15-2 38 6 
W L T GF GA Pis.

D Chris Jackson, Louisiana State 7. (tie) St. Lawrence 22-5-0 36 7 
Montreal 43 15 7 257 185 93

D Stacey King, Oklahoma Maine 27-11-0 36 8 28 241 66
Buffalo 30 6 248D Todd Uchti, Stanford 9. Wisconsin 22-13-5 24111 Boston 27 24 11 217 199 65 
23

D Glen Rice, Michigan 10. Illinois-Chicago 21-11-5 10 Hartford 27 31 4 233 232 58
11. North Dakota 22-17-1 19 9 
Quebec 22 36 6 215 282 5012. Providence 17-14-2 18

Coaches 

13. Michigan 21-73-4 12 73D Dale Brown, Louisiana State 14. Colgate 18-9-1 8111D P.J. Carlesimo, Seton Hall 15. (tie) Bowling Green 22-14-3 4115 Patrick Division D Gale Catlett, West Virginia Northeastern 16-15-2 4 14 N.Y. Rangers 33 23 8 262 234 74 D Bob Knight, Indiana Pittsburgh 32 24 7 284 269 71 D Mike Krzyzewski, Duke 'lnterhall Playoffs Washington 30 24 10 232 212 70 
Philadelphia 31 29 3 241 214 65

D Rick Majerus, Ball State Semifinals 
New Jersey 21 31 11 225 262 53

D Lynn Nance, St. Mary's (Calif.) Dillon over Alumni
SOURCE: Sports Features Syndicate The Observer 1Laura Stanton N.Y. Islanders 21 37 4 209 261 46
D Lute Olsen. Arizona Off Campus vs. Stanford, late D John Thompson, Georgetown ChampionshipScoreboard Sports Calendar D Billy Tubbs. Oklahoma Dillon vs. Off Campus/Stanford winner, Wednesday night at 11 p.m. 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 

Results for Feb. 22·28 Home games in CAPS Sulllivan Award Smythe Dvlalon w L T GF GA Pta Men's basketball (17-6) Wednesday x-Calgary 43 14 8 276 182 94 Sullivan Award Winners 1973 -Bill Wanon, UCLA. basketball Edmonton 32 27 6 270 247 70
Georgia Tech 90, Notre Dame 80 Men's basketball vs. DEPAUL, 8 p.m. 

INDIANAPOLIS--Past winners of the James E. 1974 -Rick Wohlhuter, Chicago T.C., middle dis-Los Angeles 32 26 6 315 279 70 Sullivan Award, presented annually by the U.S. tance run Vancouver 27 30 7 206 203 61
Women's basketball (16-9) 

Thursday Amateur Athletic Union to the nation's outstanding 1975 -Tim Shew, Long Beach State. swimming Winnipeg 21 31 10 235 275 52 
(10.2 In MCC) amateur athlete for the previous year: 1976 -Bruce Jenner, San Jose Stars, decathlon
Women's basketball vs. LOYOLA, 7:30 p.m.

Notre Dame 69, Xavier 56 1961 -Wilma Rudolph, Tennessee A&l., sprints 19n -John Naber, Southern California, swimming 
Dayton 67. Notre Dame 55 1962 -Jim Beatty, Los Angeles T.C., distance run 1978 -Tracy Caulkins, Nashville Aquatic Club, 1963 -John Pennel, NE Louisiana St., pole vault swimming Norris Dlvlaton 1964 -Don Schollander, Santa Clara Swim Club, 1979 -Kurt Thomas. Indiana State University, gym­Detroit 28 26 11 258 256 67
Men's tennis (9-3) Spring Break 
swimming nastics Chicago 22 32 10 245 269 54
Notre Dame 5, Colorado 1 LOUIS­
Men's basketball: March 4 vs. 1965 -Bill Bradley, Princeton, basketball 1980 -Eric Heiden, University of Wisconsin, speed St. Louis 22 31 10 216 234 54 
Notre Dame 6, Southern Illinois 3 VILLE, 4 p.m.; 6 at Butler; 8 at Marquette; 
1966 -Jim Ryun, University of Kansas, middle dis­skating Minnesota 19 29 14 205 232 52 Notre Dame 6, Iowa 3 11 at DePaul. tance run 1981 -Carl Lewis, University of Houston, track and Toronto 22 37 5 198 265 49 Women's basketball: March 5 at Butler; 1967 -Randy Matson, Texas, shot put field Wrestling (10.3) 10.11 at MCC Tournament. 1968 -Debbie Meyer, Arden Hills Swim Club, 1982 -Mary Decker, Eugene. Ore.• distance run Wednesday's Games Notre Dame 44, Marquette 2 swimming 1983 -Edwin Moses, Laguna Hills, Calif., hurdles Minnesota at Chicago 1969 -Bill Toomey, Southern California Striders. 1984 -Greg Louganis, Mission Viejo, Calif., diving Los Angeles at Buffalo decathlon 1985 -Joan Benoit-Samuelson, Freeport. Maine. New Vorl< Islanders at Detroit
Men's track Baseball: March 5 vs. Pittsburgh at Or­
1970 -John Kinsella, Indiana University, swimming marathoner Toronto at New Yorl< Rangers
At the Alex Wilson Invitational, the two-mile lando, Fla.; 6 vs. Rollins at Winter Park, Fla.; 
1971 -Marl< Spitz, Indiana University, swimming 1986 -Jackie Joyner-Kersee, Long Beach, Calif., New Jersey at Pittsburgh relay qualifies for the NCAA Championships 8 at Miami; 9 vs. Vanderbilt at Winter Park; 1972 -Frank Shorter, Aorida Track Club, distance track and field Philadelphia at Winnipeg with a time of 7:24.70. 10 vs. Pennsylvania at Orlando; 11 vs. Co­run 1987 -Jim Abbott. Flint. Mich.. baseball Montreal at Edmonton lumbia at Orlando. Wrestling: March 3-4 at NCAA Western 
Irish Basketball

Regionals in Des Moines, Iowa. Through Saturday Player G-S Mln-Avg FG·A Pet. 3P-A Pet. FT·A Pet. Reb-Avg Ast St BS TO TP Avg
Swimming Fencing: March 4 at Great Lakes Confer-
J.Fredrick 23-23 718-31 155-285 .544 25-52 .481 60-82 .732 52-2.3 67 19 1 40 395 17.2
Women (6-6) ence in Detroit; 11 at NCAA Midwest L.EIIis 22-20 696-32 128-226 .566 1-1 1.000 46-69 .667 208-9.5 27 21 45 53 303 13.8
Notre Dame 5th at Eastern Intercollegiate Regionals in Evanston, Ill. 
J.Jackson 22-22 685-31 105-219 .479 31-61 .508 54-64 .844 89-4.0 40 18 0 58 295 13.4
Championships Track: March 4-5 at IC4A Indoor Cham­K.Robinson 23-15 637-28 121-224 .540 1-1 1.000 52-76 .684 209-9.1 14 16 7 36 295 12.8
pionships in Princeton, N.J.; 10.11 at NCAA K.EIIery 8-0 133-17 17-40 .425 8-18 .444 5-16 .313 22-2.8 11 2 0 5 47 5.9

Fencing Indoor Championships in the Hoosier Dome. 
T.Singleton 23-22 655-28 42-80 .525 0-1 .000 46-68 .676 42-1.8 161 40 0 76 130 5.7
Men (21-0) E.Bennett 23-1 311-14 48-100 .436 2-8 .250 16-27 .593 31-1.3 43 14 2 42 114 5.0

Notre Dame 19, Wayne State 8 Men's Tennis: March 3-5 at Pacific Coast D.Sweet 23-1 258-11 45-85 .529 0-0 .000 8-11 .727 32-1.4 12 6 1 18 98 4.3
Notre Dame 24, Purdue 3 Doubles; 6 at UCLA; 7 at USC; 9 vs. Navy. 
S.Paddock 21-8 278-13 29-54 .537 0-0 .000 9-23 .391 97-4.6 8 6 1 19 67 3.2
Notre Dame 20, Illinois 7 Women's Tennis: March 5 at Cal State­K.Tower 22-3 204-9 16-28 .571 0-0 .000 12-25 .480 55-2.5 5 2 11 10 44 2.0
Notre Dame 22, Michigan State B Long Beach; 7 at San Diego State; 9 vs. Cal T.Crawford 8-0 13-2 6-11 .545 1-1 1.000 2-3 .667 3-0.4 0 0 0 1 15 1.9
Women (18-1) State-Fullerton; 10 at Cal-Irvine; 11 vs. Penn-K.Adkins 14-0 37-3 2-17 .118 1-11 .091 6-11 .545 e-o.s 4 1 0 4 11 0.8
Notre Dame 10, Wayne State 6 sylvania. 
Notre Dame 4625 714-1379 .518 70-154 .455 316-455 .665 904-39.3 392 145 68 362 1814 78.9
Notre Dame 12, Eastern Michigan 4 Lacrosse: March 8 at SUNY-Stony Brook; Opponents 4625 610.1329 .459 109-254 .429 326-472 .691 679-29.5 305 185 70 305 1655 72.0
Notre Dame 15, Purdue 1 11 vs. Georgetown. 
: Aerobic & Water Aerobic Instructor : • Tryouts • 
: Stop by the NVA Office & Complete the following : 
• 1. Application : •• 2. File CPR Certification e 
3. Tryouts March 13th -May 5th •• sign up now at NVA office with Sandy •• 
4. Final interview 

e Any questions call Sandy 239-5965 e 



Wednesday, March 1, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Agents may be tried apart 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO--A defense attorney on Tuesday sought to have sports agent Lloyd Bloom tried separately from colleague Norby Walters onfederal charges including racketeering and extortion. Both men are.accused of using cash and threats to line up college athletes as clients. 
At a brief hearing, U.S. district Judge George Marovich said he would rule on the motion Wednesday before empaneling the jury. Marovich also postponed until Wednesday ruling on a move by prosecutors to introduce new evidence, and on a request by defense attorney Robert Gold to remove himself as Walter's attorney if that evidence is allowed.. 
Prosecutors had indicated Monday that they might seek new charges against Walters, who already faces counts of wire fraud, mail fraud, and extortion. Bloom faces similar charges. 
But U.S. attorney Anton Valukas told Marovich Tuesday that they would instead seek only to submit the new evidence. 
Gold said the evidence could cause him to remove himself from the case by requiring him to testify in Walters' defense. 
Defense attorney Dan Webb said he wanted to have Bloom tried separately from Walters because their defenses could conflict with each other. The trial of the New York­based agents was to begin here Wednesday. 
Marovich reiterated Tuesday his irritation at the prospect of delaying the case, telling attorneys for both sides, "As I indicated to you yesterday, I wanted to put the tourniquet on our baby and stop the bleeding." 
He told the attorneys to outline their motions at a private hearing in his chambers, and said he would be ready to rule Wednesday. 
"I don't mean to be wishy-washy, but somebody is going to go to trial Wednesday," Marovich said. 
Prosecutors contend that Walters, 58, and Bloom, 29, backed by a reputed mobster, used lucrative bonuses to sign college athletes to contracts, then threatened to break their legs--or worse--if they tried to back out. 
The case is being closely monitored because it raises serious questions about the structure and practice of big-money college athletics, especially football programs that are lucrative for schools. 
Several professional athletes who dealt with the two agents are expected to be called as witnesses. 
Walters and Bloom are accused of offering cash, cars, clothing, concert tickets and trips to dozens of college athletes in exchange for signed--and usually postdated--agreements giving them exclusive rights to represent the athletes in professional contract negotiations. 
The government says such agreements defra4ded the universities involved because the athletes continued to receive athletic scholarships even though those same 
contracts made them ineligible under NCAA rules. 
The indictment also alleges that the two agents threatened the players with physical or economic harm if they wanted out to back out of the contracts.. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Bookstore Basketball registration and signups are Wednesday, March 15, in Room 002 in the base­ment of LaFortune from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. There is a $5 registration fee. Referees are needed and will be paid $5 per game. Scorekeepers are also needed. Any questions should be directed to Nancy at x3487 or Julie at x2667. -The Observer 
Men's Bookstore Basketball late signups are today from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the SUB office on the second floor of LaFortune. The registration fee is $5. Any questions should be directed to Mike Manning at 283-3305. -The Ob­server 
Cross-country ski equipment can be rented this Thursday through spring break for $10 per set. Skis are available in the Rockne Memorial Pro Shop from 4:30p.m. to 5:30p.m. Skis must be returned Monday, March 13 be­tween 4:30p.m. and 5:30p.m. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
-

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  LOST! ON FEB.9 IN ROLF'S AQUATIC CENTER WOMEN'S LOCKER ROOM IN OR AROUND LOCKER# 189. WHITE  TICKETS  TOGETHER NOT A!'ARTheld t-shlrts Will be on sale In the dining hells Mon., Tues. LUNCH & Wed. DINNER  ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS SEEKING SUMMER EMPLOYMENT IN THE CHICAGO AREA  Whet a mystery ~ has become No solution is near Will the "other" Nancy Drew  
GOLD  PINKY  RING  WITH  Domer Temporaries Inc, is a new tern  Please reply here.  
TYPING AVAILABLE  AQUAMARINE  SET.  GREAT  SEN­ 4 Louisville GA's for sale.272-6306  porary  employment  agency  offering  
287-4082  TIMENTAL  VALUE.  IF  YOU  KNOW  RIDE needed to WASHINGTON D.C. on  Notre Dame students job opportunit ies  Hey KTI Happy birthday, sexy lady. Haw  
ANYTHING ABOUT IT,PLEASE CALL  NEED 3 L'VILLE GA'S x1 063  Spring  Break.  Please  call  Peggy  at  with Notre Dame alumni in the Chicago  a GREAT 20th.Just 1 more year! Lowe,  
JENNIFER AT 284-5113.  x1264.  area. Students are guaran teed good jobs  Tara, Sue, and Anne  
TyplngWordprocesslng  ························ ······································  Helpll need 3 Louisville GA's and 2 stu­ at quality rates. If interested. please call  
237-1949  dent tix. Call Mike at 4075  CAMPUS PAINTERS INC. NOW HIRING  Domer Temporaries 283·2320  
FOR RENT  Need 1 LOUISVILLE GA Call Paul 3767  NOVICE PAINTERS  AND FOR  EXPERIENCED SUMMER HOUSE  AGNES OF GOD  FIND A FRIEND IN AUGUSTA ...  
EXPERT  TYPING  SERVICE.  CALL  PAINTING IN CHICAGO NORTH SUB­ IS  
MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  FURNISHED  ROOMS  &  2  BEDRM  I have two stud. tix for Louisville game.  URBS. CALL TO ARRANGE AN INTER­ HERE!  Due to unforeseen and unavoidable cir­ 
NEED MONEY? Sell your lextbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paparbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just off of N.D.  HOME NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 ································································ WANTED  Best offer by midnight Thurs. Call Kevin x3316. DESPARATE, I need 2 Grad Tix. will pay $please call Tim 287-7607  VIEW 312·251-0151. MAILING ADDRESS IS: 2901 CENTRAL STREET­-EVANSTON, IL 60201 Counselors for MR camp, 20 miles NW  Tonlte & Thurs Bpm Wash. Hall Lab Freel  cumstances, Z BALLS WEEK has been temporarily postponed until after break. We're sorry, but hey, this'll give you more time lo think of new and interesting things to do for or to him.  
Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph.  ······················ ········  ·····························  Orlando June 3-Aug. 12, Camp Thunder­ Rest up  
233-2342 MARCHANT RESUMES Cover letters, life updating free consuHations appoint­ NO Law school students to be reps tor Kaplan-&MH Bar Revl-coursaa. Earn free bar revl-course plus $S's. Call 272-4135. Ask lor Sue.  NEED LOUISVILLE TICS X3517 REM REM REM I'll trade you my roommate lor two  bird 909 East Welch Road, Apopka, FL 32712 (407)889·8088 Seniors Seniors Class of 89 Bid Sales  Rest up Rest up rts coming... St. Pat's Day Under the Domel!l  GREENCASTLE GREENCASTLE GREENCASTLE  
ment only (219) 287-7343  REM tlx on March 6 In Chicago. Cash  are just 13 days Away. Do you know  YES  
' LOST/fOUNDj LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl·  RIDE NEEDED EAST ON 1-80 TOWARD NYC, PREFERABLY TO AREA OF WILKES-BARRE PA OR ELSE ANYONE HEADING TOWARDS PHILADELPHIA OR SYRACUSE!BINGHAMTON NY AREA PLEASE CALL NEIL AT X4051  also. Call Pat, 288-1552 ································································ ·( PERSONALS  where your date is? Do you know who your date is? NEED RIDE TO & FROM COL., OH FOR BREAK.WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL KATHY x3714  Rest up Rest up Rest up rts coming... St. Pat's Day Under the Dome!!!  BY THE TIME YOU READ THIS, ..KE DEBOT WILL ALREADY BE ALUMNI HALL PRESIDENT ON THE NON­INVOLVEMENT (NI) TICKET.  
MILITARY FORMALII call BRET x1389 LOST 2 KEYS on a pink keychain at Morrissey SYR. If found please call X2853. LOST!!! one pair of black earmuffs on 221 somewhere in the vicinity of LaFor­tune comp. lab. Please call Dawn at 1292 if found  ································································ ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT FISHERIES. Earn $600¢-Week in can­nery, $8,000-12,000¢ for two months on fishing vessel. Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. MALE OR FEMALE For 52-page employment book· let, send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box 84008, Seattle, WA 98124. 30 day. un­conditional, 100"/o money back guarantee  Maybe the bus doesn't come here .. We came, we shopped, we carried? It's a skort. FOOD, FOOD. I have a feline lodged in my head. Waitll Wart, Whoa!! It's the bus!!! Don't worry, we missed an­other one. Chris, we missed it twice and now the bus driver has been gone for 15 minutes. I think I'm going to throw up. Exerpts from Paige & Ell go to the Mall  DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE to Columbu s, OH (or ANYWHERE near there) for spr. break. Is there somebody out there who doesn't mind having some body else pay for the gas? call Mike at 2098, PLEASE  Need rider to Texas for Easter leaving 17th, back on 27th call Jon 272-7496 Yo! Give Little Pete a ride to PH ILLY for break! x4016 RIDE NEEDED TO ROCHESTER, NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK. Call John at 2290  HAPPY BIRTHDAY FORMER QUEEN OF BERRIEN SPRINGS. 18 IS TO YOUNG TO BE A HAS BEEN. LOVE A LOONY ZUNI CLAMMY, NAUGHTY BUT NICE, AND RED HOT, OOMPMIII PASSIONAlE Telleth me the initials of the Ag thou ad­ 
FOUND: Gold-rimmed glasses In hard black plastic casa. Found In nn. 204 Nleuwland Sclenca Hall on :va. Call x3781 and see again! FOUND:SCARF IN EIGHT FLOOR SEM­INAR ROOM OF LIBRARY ON THURSDAY FEB 23. CALL xt900 TO CLAIM LOST-A MODERN, SILVER WATCH WITH BLUE TOPAZ FRIDAY NIGHT. COULD  S35QoOAY PROCESSING PHONE OR­DERS PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPE­RIENCE NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 315-733-6063 EXTEN­SION P-2382-H. CRUISESHIP JOBS $300 TO $900 WEEKLY CALL LINDA 9-5 WEEKDAYS 1-612­456-0884 EXT. C-4080 HELP! Need ride to Buffalo for break. Will share costs. Call Shawn at X2380.  LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review early. Kaplan-SMH reviews lo many states available here In South Band. Transfer back home lor summer. Dis­counts lor Kaplan LSAT alumni. Reserve before March 2 Call272-4135. Ask lor Sue. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANOWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE  THE COUNTDOWN lSI FIVE DAYS LEFT Tl DAYTONA! Girts of PE unite In anticipation o spending the week with that stud Mike Vorl<! Kitty and Rita will get some. . • . . . SUN! love your aaxy lrtand Mary GOING TO PITTSBURGH? HELP! TWO RIDES NEEDED WILL PAY EXP. CALL LIZ AT 4387  Ride Needed TO Rochester New York for Spring Break Call John at 2290. What do you call the man with a thousand names? Frankly, I like to call him James His birthday is a very near date, But he'll be gone by eight. So I can't tell him Happy Birthday by word of mouth, But I know he'll have lots of fun down South!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY ································································  mireth? a curious Ag Tha STONE PUPPIES ( ) Two Guys Two Guitars Thu!Mday Nile ( ) et MATEO'S SUBS ( ) lronwooci"Rd I .25 S lleYentgM Need ride to and from Buffalo for break. xBill1139 Scaplll (Use rt)  
HAVE BEEN FOUND IN DILLON OR THE ELK'S CLUB. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JEN AT 2550. REWARD WILL BE GIVEN.  HELP! I need a ride to Chicago-0-Hare, by 2:30p. Friday. Will help with gas. Please Call Patty X4179.  PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373 OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo.  JUNIORS Did you miss the JPW T-Shirts? Call Mike (x1185) or James (x3265)  NEED RIDE FOR BREAK TO MADISON, WI OR ANYWHERE CLOSE­·DAN X3815  SUSAN KIRALY: heve a good day!! Shall we do another meal together sometime before graduation? Come by # 214.  
IF YOU ATTENDED LAST FRIDAY'S SMC JUNIOR FORMAL AND WORE A GREY TWEED SPORTCOAT, PLEASE CHECK AND SEE IF YOU BROUGHT HOME THE RIGHT ONE. IF YOU BROUGHT HOME A HARRIS TWEED INSTEAD OF YOUR OAKMONT, CALL ME AT X2264 AND WE'LL TRADE.  RIDE NEEDED FOR TWO TO ROCHESTER NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL John (2290) or Molly (2729) Ride desparately needed to FORT LAUDERDALE or SE FL. will help wlcost & driving. leave after noon Fri :Y.l return Sat or Sun Tim 1899  Summer, Yr.round.AII Countrtea,AII fields. Frae Info. Wrtte IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92825. hlag SUMMER JOBS ALL LANOWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  to order yours today--only $6 to benefit St. Hedwig's! NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP F T-SHIRTS T-SHIRTS T-SHIRTS PERFECT FOR SPRING BREAK!!! MON,TUES,WED AT DINNING HALLS  EVIL KEENAN'S Top 10 uHimate GIGANTIC GIFTS: 10.S.BUTTOCK.9.PEP ZA.8.YAK­RESISTENT CARPET.7.CIRCUS SYR 11.6.FRED.5.BIG D'S PARTING GIFTS FROM THE WHEEL.4.VACATION IN BROWNSTOWN.3.WAFFLE COOKIES FOR ALL 2.PRIVATE TURLET FACILITIES.1.BRAND NEW PUKE­GREEN WARDROBE. Unhappy  Love, A. AFTER HOURS would like to thank everyone who came out to see ua Sat­urday night. Your enthusiasm makes aU the practicing and equiptment moving worth HI P.S. Look for us in the Nazz. TARA PEES STANDING UP  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  SUMMER INTERNSHIP AVAILABLE  Birthday, EVILI--The Turfet Police  NDMVB, GOOD LUCK IN CAUFORNIAI  
LOST:FUGI  CAMERA  WITH  CALL 1-800-343-8373  For a NO or SMC Junior accounting major  Have Fun!  
FLASHeFILM My camera was lost at my party on Navarre St. Friday night. Please return rt and if you absolutely have to have rt, please return the the film. No questions will be asked. Please return rtlll Call Tim at 288-0426 or 288-5423 LOST:FUGI CAMERA WITH FLASHeFILM  Ride needed to CINCINNATI vicinity. Will share expenses. Call Melissa (after 6pm) at34n. NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS! CAN LEAVE EARLY AS THURSDAY Call Andy at 283-3811  ADOPTION Loving,secure married couple unable to conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le­gal,medical exp. Pis call collect Chris & Susan, 70:¥.!76-9751 Completely con­fidential.  in the D.C. area. If interested contact Mary (x1343) as soon as possible. NO TOASTMASTERS!! No meeting this week. The next meeting will be after break, 3lt 5. 223 Hayes-Healy 7:30. ALL WELCOME!!  EVIL & TINA: One more day until .... The HILTON HEAD TRIP from HELL! I need a ride to Dayton Thur&f'ri call Chris x2866 PLEASE!! Need ride to York, PA or anywhere in VERY GENERAL vicinity  ATTN ALL NO MEN: Exactly one week from today ERIN MACHER will be turning 20.Give her a call at x4117 this weal< and beat the rush. NEED RIDE TO D.C. call lngo, 2376 will share expenses  
MISSING: BRIGHT RED BACKPACK FROM SOUTH DINING HALL WITH KEYS AND IMPORTANT CLASS NOTES. PLEASE CALL Ann x4217  FOR SALE 79 MIDGET EXC. COND. LOW MILAGE 294-5699 Microwave & Cabinet-Litton II Genera­ ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-8n­3574 Ride needed to BaltOC area over Easter Break Prefer leaving eart)l'teturning late  To the cute red headed girt who rode the bus to and from the mall on Fri: I'd love to meet you for an evening of romance Charlie Brown IN DIRE NEED FOR RIDE TO ST. LOUIS AREA. WILL PAY DEARLY. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURS. TOM x4287  $$$$Kelly 4416 To the girt of my dreams, I have only seen you twice but I must see you again. Once you were in North Dining Hall and the other time oc­curred on North Quad. Please continue to eat at North and eventually I will in­troduce myse~ to you.  Ag Ag Ag Ag HIAGII hee, hee, hee HOUSEPLANT  - 
LOST-· Taupe Liz Claiborne keychain-nif found PLEASE, PLEASE call x2297. LOST: BLACK TAFFETA BOW AT OIL· LON FORMAL ON 225. IF YOU ARE THE GIRL WHO HAS IT, PLEASE CALL 284-5085. LOST: Blue blazer takan by mlstaka from Friday's St. Mary's Junior For­mal. Red hankerchlel In left front pocket. Call Kan Douglas Ill 288-n59.  tion, 2 memories. probe, rack cookbook. Like new-$200. Large cabinet-Excellent condrtion. $100. Phone 234-4263 after 12 noon ROUND TRIP AIR-CHICAGO TO DEN­VERI!! Leave 314. Return 3lt 2. Call2533. HP 12C FOR SALE Instructions were lost but can be sent for. I don't use rt much and could use the cash. Asking 50 clollera or hlghMt offer. Call Marl< Ill 283-1893 and leeve a meuage.  Call Rob x1159 RIDE NEEDED! To ROCHESTER, Buf­falo, Syracuse March 2, or to Pittsburgh March 2or3. Pay$$. Call Mary284·5128 or 5117. I NEED A RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA OR NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK-WILL SHARE EXPENSES-FLEXIBLE DATES. CALL ROSI AT X3567. 13 Could be your Lucky Number Just 13 days left til Senior Formal Bid Seleslll!llll  Ride needed from Pittsburgh to NO Sun­day 3lt2. Will share expenses. Call Karen x4121. DESPERATELY Need Ride to Chicago, Milwaukee, Madison, or Appleton For Spring Break. Will Share Expenses. Nicole x487 4 LOUD,semiskilled guitarist seeks similar drummer,bassist to form VU­rishREMishHuskerDuish band.NO METAL. Call Marsh x1749  Sincerely, An Admirer CARLOSSES: this is for you Ill am really looking forward to next year It will be great to have you here. Meanwhile enjoy California. I hope you have more than 5 fiestas and that everything stays bajo par. Watch out for Student Body Presi­dents ... A particular one has been after you for quite some timefll I miss you & look forward to hearing from youll Love, A.  Pat: I'm flattered and I hed a good time too but I'm not interested. J. ······•······················································ Marty may be President, but Ted is still my hero. Long live thq com-mon man. Go MNCI Forget the hero stuff. Ted is a WEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEENIEI  

-

-
-

1.BuyaMacintosh. 

,. 

2. 
Add aperipheral. 

3. 
Get anice, fat check. 



Now through March 31, when you buy selected Macintosh111 SE or Macintosh II computers, you'll get a rebate for up to half the suggested retail price of the Apple111 peripherals you add on -so you'll save up to $800. Ask for details today where computers are sold on campus. 
·~~~ 
Apple Pays Half 

Computer Store Notre Dame 
Here Computer Center I Math Building 
c 1989 AifJie CotrrpM: hie. """" tbiAif/lellflll, lltldMacilfloiiJ-rrgit/8r«/ ~if.Cotrpl#r. hie. c.tain rBfllidioni ~ All""'*'IJibj«< kJ slrii:J rompliance wilb tbllnr-'CotwllioNI(tbi':WW ~Ifill/'~~ IIIJIIiltlblljvttt,_fllllllorizldAif/le...U.(1/ilr void,.,ptdJ/bllltJ by­
-
Wednesday, March 1, 1989 The Observer page 15 
-

Irish tennis faces challenges in southern California 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
"Make sure you bring your suntan lotion, bathing suit and a towel. 
"Oh yeah, bring a tennis racket or two, and maybe we'll hit around." 
Although these aren't the ex­act words of Head Coach Bob Bayliss, the Notre Dame men's tennis trip to California will not be all relaxation. In between the fun and sun, the 11-4 Irish will stop in Westwood, Ca., and hit around with the No.1 team in collegiate tennis, UCLA on March 6. The following day, the to Southern Cal's Marks Stadium to take the court against the No.12 Trojans. 
"The trip is a chance to con­tinue to compete, to improve and to challenge ourselves," said Bayliss. "Yet it is some­thing of a reward for a job well done so far this season." 
Before those uphill battles, Notre Dame will hold over in La Jolla, Ca. to partake in the Pacific Coast Doubles compe­tition from March 3-5. At the La Jolla Beach and Tennis Club, some premier collegiate schools will enter their doubles teams to fight for the crown. The Irish will enter four duos Also, the PCD will acclamate the Irish to the outdoor setting of all four of its matches in Cal­ifornia. "The Pacific Coast Doubles will give us a chance to compete a:t a high level," said Bayliss. "But it will ease the grind of dual matches." 


To continue its Top 25 schedule, the Irish will combat the best that collegiate tennis has to offer when they take on the Bruins. Looking for the first victory against a Top 25 foe, UCLA is not likely to fall prey, and grant the Irish their wish. 
"We have no illusions," said Bayliss. "We have nothing to lose. But by no means are we just showing up to say we played UCLA. We want to see what we can do." 
Playing UCLA will probably put a loss on their record, but the Irish, according to Bayliss, benefit in other ways. 
"Going against UCLA helps us recruit," said second-year head coach Bob Bayliss. "A kid knows that if he comes here that he can play the best. Also, it is good to measure yourself against the best." 
With the top ranking, it is not coincidental that UCLA has a long list of excellent players. No.1 Buff Farrow is at the top of that list. Farrow, who finished No.5 last year in the nation, currently holds the No.10 slot. Farrow is an excel­lent all-court player whose strength is his serve-and-volley approach to the game. 


The Bruins' No. 1 doubles team of Pat Galbraith-Brian Garrow is the defending NCAA champions and currently the No.1 ranked team in the country. 
"I'm not worried about the wmnmg or losing," said Bayliss. "Win, lose or draw, we should be out there compet­ing." 
Regardless of the outcome of the UCLA contests, the Irish must hop over to the USC campus on March 7. The Trojans, who have 12 National Tennis Championship banners (second to UCLA's 15) boast of a No.12 national ranking. Con­tinuing the legend of Wimbel­don champion and alumni Stan Smith is No. 1Byron Black. The 5-9 Zimbabwe native, ranked 27th in pre-season rankings, 
HEY TRILLS 
and the Notre Dame 
.MEN'S SWIM TEAM 
GOOD LOCK 
at the 
Eastern Intercollegiate Championships!! 

Blq~Effrt1;1/t/ WED MARCH 8TH 7·30 pM 
• ' • • · 
!ftUH-aqafo J~&qeepdad~~ NOTRE DAME JOYCE ACC 
Prices: '11.00 & '9.00
ffPI1TRtetttPl1f!rEm *ASK ABOUT SPECIAL *s-",.,.1 e~elF,.,; aKdcfat COURTSIDE SEATS* 
DISCOUNT NOOMC STUDENTSf'ACULTY/STAFF 
10 TANNING SESSIONS 
em~ $25 
ltfAppoiOOnen<onJr • 
1 i:'~~o.:~t'h.;:.'edr.r. 
4 1189
1 ' possess an incredible all-court game. No.2 John Carras' style of play is in the Southern Cal serve-and volley style. 
Once again the Irish are the clear underdogs in this matchup, but Bayliss is eyeing a competitive match. 
"I told my players not to be suprised if they find them­selves in a competetive match," said Bayliss. "USC is a scrappy, confident team. Also, Californian teams tend to think there is no way they can lose to an eastern school." 
To conclude spring break, the Irish will take on the Navy's Midshipmen in La Jolla on March 9. Although unranked, Navy is a formidable foe that the Irish can not afford to take lightly. For Bayliss, the Navy ­matchup has specific sig­nificance since he coached there from 1970-1984 and holds the distinction of the only men's tennis coach not to lose to Army. 
"They're not as match ready as we are but they are very anxious and dangerous," said Bayliss. "Navy has one of the best teams they've had in several years. 
Demons 
continued from page 20 
as far as next year is con­cerned. That's got to be to their advantage." 
But DePaul, like the Irish, also runs the floor with young legs. 
Sophomore forward Melvon Foster (6.0 ppg), freshman guard Curtis Price (4.7 ppg) and 6-9 freshman center Step­hen Howard (8.4 ppg) are the remaining Blue Demon starters. 
DePaul also has firepower off the bench in the form of 
specialist Brad

Niemann (9.4 ppg.), who is 65­
eoopooexp;,.. -·­
1----------------1 "That's up to the Division I 
Name: Samantha "Sam" Delaney 
: $150 0FF : committee to decide," he said.
Occupation: Sales 
1 "There's a lot of basketball 
On Her New Look .. To~ that my 1 
1 SHAMPOO, 1left. I think, as far as the Tourn­
hair was limp and lifeless is putting it 
1 CUT & 1ament is concerned, it's going
nicely Let's face it-it didn't do a 
1 1to come down to the last
thing for me. I desperately wanted a 
I BLOWDRY I weekend for a lot of teams."
new look, but didn't want to pay afor­
1 .. 
tune. Then I discovered Fiesta and I Only $8.49, Reg. $9.99 .'fa Junior co-captain Joe 
realized that I didn't have to. Whoever I N<•v.J;dw•hanro"""are. • Fredrick continues to lead the
1 Coupon expues 411189 _,__. I 
said looks don't get you anywhere­a.. ______________ -I Irish in scoring with his 17.2 
LIED! 
I "THE WORKS" I average. Fr~shman forward 
In a word . .. Outraf!.eous!" I I Laphonso Ellis averages 13.8, No appointment-just rroiJz in! LaSalle Square I Only nt.50 I junior co-captain Jamere Jack­

937 Bendix 1 
237_9049 c 1 Reg. $13.99 1~on. scores at a ~3.4 eli~ and
111 

Open Daily B,ll, Sat 8.(5 Includes shampoo, condition, 1JUruor center Keith Robmson
1 

Sun J0-5 I cut and blowdry. I averages 12.8 per game. Buyers Marketplace Outlet Mall I No<Vi110lwilhanyotherdre< • I Ellis and Robinson pull down DiSCOYeryournewlook 5901 Grape Rd. REw.use,reromDrlll!fldKEandNretai/ III.I~~'YS -------1 eoopooexpires411189 19.5 and 9.1 rebounds per game, L--ar~an:::ill:Ordab=:.:.le~pnce~·235 salons . .. arui:!.growing!::=:!._~2Z~2:40!:.3:6~~~~~.!.:;~~~~~~-="~~.:.!.~--=PR=U=L=M=l=-o=-E=L=.iL1_______________
Open Daily 8-8, Sat 8-6, Sun 12·5 ·_.'respectively. 
Brundy is DePaul's worst free-throw shooter at a dismal 
47 percent. Foster and Price are not far behind at 56 percent and 60.5 percent, respectively. 
."Both teams are in a must-win situation," Phelps said. "It 
should be a typical DePaul-Notre Dame basketball 1 game." 1 Tonight's game is the first of 1 two between the independent I rivals, and this year's series : could have NCAA Tournament 1 implications. 1 Phelps would not comment 
• 1 on Notre Dame's chances of I securing a bid. 
-

-page 16 
Schoendienst, Barlick elected to Hall of Fame 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. --Former St. Louis Cardinals second baseman Red Schoendienst and National League umpire Al Barlick were elected to baseball's Hall of Fame Tues­day by the veterans commit­tee. 
Schoendienst played 18 years in the majors, 14 with the Cards, and was the Cardinals manager from 1965-75. He cur­rently is a coach on Whitey Herzog's St. Louis staff. 

·-
Barlick, known for his booming voice behind the plate, worked 27 full seasons and part of another in the Na­tional League after coming up to the majors at age 25 in 1940. Barlick worked seven World 
Lewis 
continued from page 20 
three-point bomb in a 7-0 run which put the Rebels up by nine. 
B.P. still would not quit, ral­lying to within four at 34-30. But the Blitz did not score again as Lewis scored the last eight points of the ball game. 

Ellen Mouch of Lewis led all scorers with 15 points, while Ciccone and Marcie Powell had 8 points apiece for the Rebels. Mangan finished with 14 for the Blitz. The Rebels killed B.P. with their free throw shooting. Lewis tallied 15 baskets in 21 attempts from the charity stripe, while B.P. hit 6 of 10. 
B.P. coach Jeff Heilert said the Lewis man-to-man defense really hurt his team. 
"We haven't seen man-to­man defense in ages," he said. "I can't remember the last time we've had to play against a defense like this. We tried a lot of different things today, we'll just have to figure out what works for Thursday." 
Lewis coaches Tom Zidar and Mark Laboe were obvi­ously pleased with their team's performance. 
"I guess it helped us to play a couple of games in a row," said Zidar. "We've gotten a lot better. The run we had at the end of Monday's game against 
P.E. gave us a lot of confi­
dence. "We're scared to death of the 

B.P. inside game, though. Lora Mangan is a very good bal­lplayer. We're just tickled to death to still be alive and playing in the championship game of this tournament." 
Indeed Lewis, seemingly un­dermatched inside no matter who they play against, is an im­probable finalist. But the Rebels' shooting has been

-
phenomenal throughout the 
IH 
continued from page 20 
"We're going to hustle more

... 
and hopefully come back with the trophy," said Fulling. 
The pit in the Joyce ACC al­lowed Morrissey to run its of­fensive game as planned. With tonight's game slated for a con­fined gym, both teams will have to adapt to the shooting conditions. As two different playing conditions will have been used, the winner of the final contest will be the true champion. 
Series and seven All-Star games before retiring after the 1971 season. 

Seventeen of the 18 commit­tee members were present during 5 112 hours of delibera­tions. Although the exact vote totals were not announced, it required 14 to be elected. 
The veterans committee, which selects players passed over in the regular vote of baseball writers, has elected 119 members to the hall in 32 years but, for the first time, did not elect anyone last year. 
Schoendienst and Barlick will be inducted on July 23 along with Johnny Bench and Carl Yastrzemski, who were elected by the Baseball Writers Asso­ciation of America. 
tournament, and their quick­ness forces bigger teams into a lot of turnovers. 
"We have to shoot the ball really well," said Zidar, "because we don't get a lot of offensive rebounds. When we don't shoot well, we're not a very good team." 
Breen~Phillips, on the other hand, has to take better care of the ball and make the most of its height inside to have a chance at becoming Interhall champions on Thursday. With Mangan and junior Vicki Buth, the Blitz have the best one-two inside scoring punch in the league, and they will have to make the most of it to beat Lewis in the championship game. 
Thursday, March 2, 1989 4:15p.m. Hayes-Healy Hall, Room 122 
Wednesday, March 1 , 1989
The Observer 

Keeping NO's standards high 
....,.
JiACOLTY AND STAFF 

.,........
LoW Impact Aerobics 
Eady ·Bird Special 
6:45 ,. 7:30 c:t~m. Mon. & Wed. 
Cl<l:SS 13egin March13! Come. dressed to class Class~~ <;:on~t.lcted atthe JACC · fee $5 Jl.alf semester 
I 
For Further Information 
Call#5100 

Mter reading last week's issue of Sports Illustrated--an issue which focused on the com­plete lawlessness of Oklahoma's football program--1 was appalled at the depths to which college football has fallen. 
And, like every other student with a deep loyalty to a school, I tried to convince myself that no matter how badly the boys act at times, nothing they could do would bring that type of embarrassment to this school. 
After all, isn't this Notre Dame, home of all that is good and decent in the world? 
Molly Mahoney • 
·~ 
'. ~ ~ 
Sports Writer 

"·~ 
Doesn't the constant reminder of the Virgin Mary sitting on the Golden Dome watching over our every move prevent our players and students from defiling the school's name with unseemly behavior? 
None of us are that naive. 
But I didn't think that in one week two of our football team's most prominent athletes would play such a major role in dragging our university down to the level of such paragons of morality as Oklahoma, SMU, or Miami for that matter. 
This is not the say that the actions by two players necessarily condemns the entire team or is indicative of a growing lack of concern by the players for the school and the ideals which it represents. 
But how can we stereotype schools such as Miami as breeding grounds for illiterate con­victs and piously speak as if we--supposedly the nation's premier Catholic university--are any different when two of our players spend the offseason inventing new driving tech­niques on the streets of South Bend. 
I'm afraid this is blatant hypocrisy. 
If our football players--or any other students participating in activities in the school's name--are good enough to represent Notre Dame on the field, they should be mature enough to take responsibility for their actions 

off. 
There are those who say that these players are being wrongly showered in media atten­tion normal students would not receive. 
But when you agree to accept the media in all your glory--after the big win, after a na­tional championship--you have to be ready to be bombarded by it when your actions aren't quite as admirable. 
Many people, especially children, respect the team for its accomplishments and look up the the players as role models. 
Maybe society puts too much pressure on its exemplary athletes. Maybe we expect too much when we ask them to live by the same standards as the rest of us. 
But I would hope that the discipline and dedication it takes to be a varsity athletes would help make these players be better people, better citizens, and not the latest faces on the police lineup. 
Needless to say, Notre Dame is no Okla­homa. 
Our team has no Charles Thompsons charged with selling cocaine. The Irish don't have players like Jerry Parks, shooting fellow teammates in the chest after disagreements. 
But too often, it is easy to hide behind the aura of Notre Dame. 
Lets just admit that we can't expect everyone--especially 6'5, 220-pound men who pay their way through school by participating in a violent contact sport called football--to be saints. 
But that doesn't exempt anyone from the constraints which guide the rest of society. Its time to either live up to the ideals which this university supposedly espouses or ignore our obligation to stand above such behavior. 
Lets make sure that the next time a Notre Dame a football player appears on the cover of Sports Illustrated, it is to celebrate another victory and not to be ushered into a police squad car in hand cuffs dressed in orange prison suit. 
Want To Know Your Body Fat%? Stop by NVA Office for testing STAFF, FACULTY, & GRAD STUDENTS Thurs. March 2nd 2:45 -5:30 pm UNDERGRADUATES Wed. March lst 4 -6:30 pm 
Bicep, Tricep, Subscrapula, SuPrailiac Wear short sleeves and some type of slacks First Come First Serve 
SPRING BREAK 
7"SUB
• Visiting Scholar Series 
AT&T UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 

sm. CHIPS 
Departments of Government and Economics Series The Year of the Child In Family Polley 

120z. SODA 
co-sponsored by the Hesburgh Program in Public Service 

CUPCAKES 
Barbara J. Nelson 
$5.29 
Humphrey Instiwte of Public Affairs, University of Minnesota 

ROAD TRIP SPECIAL 
Friday, March 3 
1:15 p.m. Decio Hall, Room 131 
Made possible by a grant from the AT&T Foundation, and organized by 

FREE DELVIERY 
the College of Arts and Letters, University of Notre Dame. 
Lecture: "Making an Issue of Child Abuse: Political Agenda Setting for Social Problems" 

Comes in a convenient 
BAG LUNCH STYLE 
Colloquium: "New Currents 

Stop by or call in for delivery
ln Multi-disciplinary Research on the Family" 271-OSUB 
... 
Wednesday, March 1, 1989 The Observer page 17 
Canadian drug inquiry starts 

Associated Press 
TORONTO--The federal inquiry into drugs and athletics prompted by the disqualification from the Olympics of Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson resumed Tuesday with hints of startling testimony to come. 
Commission counsel Robert Armstrong said he anticipates that athletes who will appear during the inquiry's review of track and field will admit to steroid use. 
He said the extent of the 
admissions "probably" will be 
greater than ever heard anywhere 
before and he urged that no one be 
penalized for his candor. 
Ontario Associate Chief Justice 
Charles Dubin, appointed by the 
federal government to investigate 
drug abuse in Canadian amateur 
athletics after the Olympic scandal 
last September, said there was 
merit to the observation and it 

would be considered at the proper 
time. 

The commission has sweeping 
powers to summon. and hear 
testimony but has no mandate to 
sanction. It could issue 
recommendations that could be 
followed by the Canadian Track 
and Field Association, however. 
Appearing for what is certain to 
be days of testimony was Charlie 
Francis, Johnson's coach since the 
sprinter first came to the 
Scarborough Optimists Track and 
Field Club at age 15. 
The coach, who detailed the accomplishments of his runners with a remarkably accurate recall, has not spoken publicly since Johnson was stripped of the 100­. meter gold medal at Seoul after a positive test for anabolic steroids. 
Francis said Johnson first came 
to the track club with his older 
brother, Eddie, in 1977 and 
showed little indication of becoming a world champion at that young age. 
Johnson, now 27, was showing promise by 1981 and by 1986 was ranked No. 1 in the world in the 100 meters. 
Francis offered detailed testimony of building his group of sprinters from four in 1976 to some 30 who garnered an impressive collection of national domination and international wins. 
In his only comment on the Seoul scandal since September, he issued a brief statement last fall that suggested the sprinter's urine test may have been sabotaged. 
"Such a test result defies all logic and, in my opinion, can only be explained by a deliberate manipulation of the testing process," Francis said in the Oct. 3 statement. 

Florence Grlfflth-Joyner, shown here at the 1988 Summer Olympics, Is the leading candidate for the 1988 Sullivan Award for the top amateur athlete. Griffith announced her retirement from competition last week. 

Is It woodstock or 
Cqtby 

lr'ra:Yt 
Peace. 

He~ppiness 
and 
Love. 

Mon and Mar 
Letters 
continued from page 20 
Dear Irish Items, 
I'm writing to request that you inform your sports-minded student body that we on the 
U.S. Olympic Committee tend to spare no expense in order that our athletes get the best preparation possible. 
Dear Mr. Steinbrenner, 
Sounds like a good idea. It. sure has worked well for your Yankees, hasn't it George? 
Dear Irish Items, 
I hear Oklahoma is getting a new defensive coordinator. 
Dear Heff, 
Yes they are. And his motto is, "The best defense is a cri­minal offense." 

Dear Irish Items, 
I'm guilty. I admit that I sit home on Friday nights and look at my Sports Illustrated Swim­suit Issue wishing Notre Dame girls looked like that. Dear Stumped in Stanford, 
That's OK. Maybe there's a nomination for Defense Secre­tary in your future. Dear Irish Items, 
Everyone talks about in­flated prices at the Bookstore. Have you come across any bar­gains since you've been at Notre Dame? 
Dear Napes, 
There was the time that The Sun Devil House ran out of glasses in Phoenix at the post­Fiesta Bowl party. Do you con­sider 50 cents for a cupped handful of beer a bargain? Dear Irish Items, 
Why can't the band perform while the ball is in play during basketball games anymore? 
Dear JB, The answer is obvious. Be­cause if the band played then 

· the cheerleaders would prob­ably dance. And if the cheer­leaders were dancing and cheering it would be so hard to concentrate on the game. Dear Irish Items, 
You make my liver quiver. 
Dear Kelley, Stay away from my photo album. 
Dear Irish Items, 
You call yourself a writer? Ha! How much longer do we have to put up with your once­a-week waste of 16 inches of newspaper space? 
Dear Dad, 
Just one more column after Spring Break. (P.S. Send money). 

What Did Man Do Before 

We are now taking Applications for the 1989-90 school year for the following positions: 
GENERAL MANAGER  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
PROGRAMMING MANAGER  ACCOUNT MANAGER  
PROMOTIONS MANAGER  14 ASSISTANT MANAGER  

Applications available in the Student Activities Office (3rd Floor LaFortune) and due March 3 -ick one up Today! 
.. 
.. 
Wednesday, March 1, 1989

page 18 The Observer
-
Irish lax starts up with Stony Brook 
By PETE LaFLEUR of the Irish attack to the expe­Sports Writer rience of the threesome and to their ability to play as a unit. 
The Notre Dame lacrosse "They work well in practice 
team begins a new era when it and spend time coordinating 
faces off against SUNY-Stony what they're doing," he said. 
Brook and Georgetown during "I think they've really 
spring break. developed a little bit of a sixth 
Led by first-year coach sense for each other." Kevin Corrigan and senior tri­The starters are backed-up captains John Olmstead, Kevin by junior Rob Lynn and soph­O'Connor and Doug Spencer, omore Mike Sennett. Lynn has the Irish are looking to start been a pleasant surprise, com­the season off with victories at ing up with two goals and an StoN.Y. Brook and against the assist in Saturday's rout of Hoyas at Hofstra University in Chicago. Sennett, meanwhile, Hempsted, N.Y. has battled back from back 
Preparing under an intensi­problems to see his first action fied practice and conditioning for the Irish, scoring two goals program, the Irish should be in against Chicago. the hunt for the NCAA tourna­ment bid reserved for a "wes­Midfield tern" school. The Irish fell Despite the potency of the short of that goal the last two Irish attack line and the depth seasons, losing to eventual rep­of its defense, Olmstead said resentatives Michigan State in the midfielders will, as always, 1987 and Air Force in 1988. This play a crucial role in the team's season many observers sense success. the Irish have their best shot. "The midfielders are respon­
"In the past we really didn't sible for getting the ball from know much about the bid be­the defense up to the attack so cause it was new," Olmstead that we can score. We are said. "But now we know what definitely a transition team," it means, and for the first time Olmstead explained. we're going to be ready." But to see that success 
Below is an preview of the '89 manifested, the Irish will Irish, position by position: depend on many young Attack midfielders coming of age. 
All three starters return to Last season the Irish boasted form a unit that Corrigan says a balanced midfield group, one he has "a lot of confidence in." that countered the experience Juniors Brian McHugh and of four seniors with the youth Dave Carey join Olmstead on of five freshmen. This season, a line that averages 6--3, 185, however, the Irish have only significant size for the fast­three of those 13 players paced game of lacrosse. remaining, the oldest being 
Olmstead ranks fifth on the junior Mike Quigley. Irish all-time scoring list with "On midfield we still run into 107 points and should make a some problems mainly be­serious charge at 1986 graduate cause we tend to hurry things­Joe Franklin's record of 161 -and that's not unusual for a points. McHugh had seven young group," Corrigan said. goals and two assists in last "But I think we have a well weekend's 19-6 win over balanced group. They're get­Chicago Lacrosse Club and 9-4 ting better all the time and I victory over Windy City, while think that'll continue." Carey added three goals and Quigley, the team's leader in five assists in the scrimmages. ground balls, and sophomore 
Corrigan credits the balance John Capano, the team's top 

11[iJCS0(!J cj)fia 
.. 
(J)fl@cs0atk!Jm cs&(] @ allJ&[jj)(j)@® Mishawaka Indian Ridge Plaza 
(Next to Venture) 
Grape Rd. 277-7946 
.PROFESSIONAL
Hours: Daily 9-8 

ZQTQS
Sat. 9-6 Sun. 11-5 PERMS 
·-~ lhon-longlhl10-. 


------~------------~·------------------------------------------~----------------------------~ 
Wednesday, March 1, 1989 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
12:30 p.m. "Union Strength in Chile," Ernesto Livicich, ND Graduate Student, Room 131 Decio. 
4:15p.m. "Making an Issue of Child Abuse: Political Agenda Setting for Social Problems," by Barbara J. Nelson, associate professor of public affairs and planning and co-director of the Center on Women and Public Policy at the University of Minnesota's Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Mfairs, Room 122 Hayes-Healy. 
7:00 p.m. "Blacks in Nursing: The Path We Tread," by Elizabeth Carnegie, Editor Emerita, Nursing Research. Little Theatre. 
7:30 p.m. "Sisters of the Grange," Professor Don Marti, IUSB History Dept., Carroll Auditorium. 
CAMPUS 
12:10-1:00 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
8:00 
p.m. NDM Basketball vs. DePaul, JACC. 

8:00 
p.m. Pax Christi Meeting, Center for Social Concerns. 


DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Tangy Grid Chicken Philly Steak Sandwich Batter Fried Perch Baked Fish-Lemon Butter Cheese Stuffed Pepper Rice Con Queso Beef Stroganoff-Noodles Deli Bar 
COMICS 



The Observer 
page 19 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Of an ancient 44 Flying pest Arabian kingdom 
45 Does some1 Cooking 29 Forwarded tailoring
direction 31 Tokyo's former 46 Aurora, to the 
6 Lugosi or Bartok name Greeks10 Londoner's 34 Antiquer's 47 Tool for making umbrella activity holes14 Pet name 

35 "It's--world": 48 Like Bryan? 
15 Short story about Dickens 55 Hourglass filler Sadie Thompson 36 Tito was one 56 Cheap; miserly 16 River to the 37 Antitakeover

Caspian 57 Writer Cobb 
protection for 

11 Crossbeam 59 A third of thrice 
executives 18 Vicinity 60 Season

40 Woody Guthrie's 19 Penetrating son 61 Pee Wee of preposition baseball
41 Medium for 20 Weapon in Monet 62 Expensive fisticuffs 
42 Poet Wystan 63 Cinders of 23 Litigate Hugh--comics 24 Kind of meal 43 Utter 64 Knight's weapon 
DOWN 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

1 Fast plane 2 Hold back 3 Culture medium 4 Volcanic material 21 Heavenly heater 32 Library gadget 49 Peruvian native 
5 Horse trainer's method 22 Krazy one in 33 Some are Dutch of yore 
6 Stopper of sorts 35 Samoan port 
comics 50 Kind of estate 7 Merit 25 Adventure tales 36 Close 51 Like Bol of a Kind of tenant? 26 Marketplace 38 Stuff's partner basketball 9 Copper city or 27 Melville's-39 Strumpet with a 52 Plastics 
Budd phone ingredient
SA boa 1 o Certain complex 
28 Within: Comb . 44 N.Y.'s Cuomo 53 Fifty-fifty form 
45 Wheat bristle 54 Platter 
composer 29 Blue pigment 46 Church bigwig 55 Turf 12 Wrestlers' pads 30 Corn units 47 Main artery 58 Society-page 13 Arafat's gp. 31 Give the slip to 48 Sensible word 11 "Comus" 
· 

The Far Side Gary Larson 

Mike Muldoon


Buzz McFiattop 
P!J.elli/Lt y 00£. 70 ,A AJ(AJ.L !?.£1'/(£5E/JTA.ll~ 70u> 6rt..{)t=/IITt0£Jj$£LTtol/ 
f/ R_ON-~FF IN 77(£.. 
v07Jrl~ !'fj-(Jp IN f/31/£1<. tJ5 o!= 1'1 LI14J::. t#Coffi-{UJ 14"\Tior./,
~ /'ft/51 NotJ ~1'/KS 
t.J&:.Mo A 
.t./rr.t.£.,~ 
cF~­
1t:A7lb/IL 


"I told you guys to slow down and take it easy or something like this would happen."
1r; "-­
lrfl(tiST8£.. tr'S 4orll Bit, ':C" oAJ rr. 



Sports 
Wednesday, March 1, 1989
page 20 
The Observer I Pat Kusek 


lnterhall action heats up 
"a .. 



Morrissey defeated Fisher 46-36 Tuesday to force tonight's championship men's lnterhall basket-
Morrissey forces one more game 
The Observer I Pat Kusek 
ball game. Rod Culver led Morrissey with 11 points. 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
Morrissey forced a final game to determine the men's Interhall basketball champion last night by outscoring Fisher 18-8 in the fourth quarter en route to a 46-36 victory over the Green Wave. Action gets un­derway tonight at 6 p.m. in Gym 2 of the Joyce ACC for the final battle. 
Mter Morrissey posted a 20­18 halftime advantage, Fisher tied the score the score at 28 to end the third quarter. A 30-29 Green Wave lead was enough to inspire the Manor to imple­ment its fast paced offense, reeling off eight unanswered points to post a 37-30 lead with 
4:12 remaining. 
"We ran our fastbreak well, but we didn't do a good job of shutting down Todd Wagenblast," said Morrissey's Tom Veltz. Wagenblast finshed the night with 14 points. 
Freshman Rod Culver poured out nine points in the fourth quarter before ending with 13 for the Manor. Soph­mores Derrick Johnson and Veltz each contributed 11 points to the Morrissey cause. Kevin Keyes and Ed Larkin scored 7 and 4 points, respec­tively. "We had a height ad­vantage and just took it right at them," said Johnson. "We had more of a great all around team performance rather than looking for just one key player." 
Fisher, which came into the game having won 11 consecu­tive games, lost for the first time this season. The Green Wave was led by Wagenblast and Paul Fulling, who scored nine points. Despite a well-


LaPhonso Ellis (20) and his Notre Dame teammates will battle the DePaul Blue Demons tonight In the Joyce ACC, and again March 11 In Chicago. 
played first half, the Green Wave slowly faded in the second. The Manor converted on its fastbreak attempts and a few untimely Fisher turn­overs led to a less than par per­formance in the final quarter. 
"Our defensive intensity was not as high as it should have been," said Fisher's Fulling. "We gave them too many open shots, which we can't do against a team with their shoot­ing ability.'' 
In tonight's game to decide the champion, both teams will stick with the same game plans that were used last night. 
"We'll try to run the break again and play a little better 
on defense," said Veltz. Fisher hopes to end season with a single against eleven wins.  the loss  
see  IH,  page  16  

Irish, DePaul crash the boards 
By MARTY S'PRASEN Sports Editor 

Notre Dame basketball co­ach Digger Phelps knows his team has a lot of rebounding to do when it hosts DePaul tonight at the Joyce ACC. 
First, the Irish will have to rebound from their collapse against Georgia Tech this past Saturday, in which Notre Dame blew a 17-point lead, gave up 60 points in the second half and lost 90-80. But more importantly for tonight's 8 p.m. 
Opening up the mailbox 
Over the course of the past six months there have been a few interesting pieces of mail and answering machine messages regarding this column. 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 


1 decided to share some of them with you. Some of the names have been changed to protect the innocent. As a matter of fact, some of the stories have been changed. Perhaps fab­ricated is a better word. 
matchup, the Irish have to keep leapers like DePaul's 6-7 for­ward Stanley Brundy off the of­fensive boards. 
"They've got great athletes and they really pound the boards," said Phelps, whose 17­6team ranks third in the nation in rebounding margin with a difference of more than nine per game. "Our concern is not letting them get the second and third efforts on offensive rebounding situations." 
DePaul has a rebounding margin of plus-five. 
The Observer I Pat Kusek 

Lewis Hall continued its string of victories with a win over Breen­Phillips Tuesday In women's lnterhall basketball action. The win forces another matchup between the same two teams tonight. 
Lewis win sends IH into deciding game 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
The Lewis Rebels raced to an 8-0 lead over Breen-Phillips last night and never looked back in recording a 42-30 vic­tory in the Women's Interhall Basketball playoffs. 
The loss was B.P.'s first in the double-elimination tourna­ment, setting up a true cham­pionship game between •lte Blitz and the Rebels Thursday night at 6:30 in the Joyce ACC Pit. 
Lewis looked sharp for 
Dear Irish Items, 
I'd like to start the design on a T-shirt to sell throughout the dorms next fall. Any sug­gestions? 
Dear Beefer, How about "Convicts vs. 'Canes"? Dear Irish Items, 
I don't know what people could complain about. Basketball fans at the JACC have been treated to exciting basketball, fast breaks, high scoring games and scoring in bunches. 
·Dear Coach Phelps, I know what you're saying, Coach. At times even the Irish have played that way. 
see LETTERS, page 17 
playing their third game in three days. But the Blitz, with a three-day layoff took a little while to get untracked on of­fense. 
When they did, it was fresh­man center Lora Mangan who did most of the damage. Man­gan's 10 first-half points helped 
B.P. cut the deficit to 20-14 at halftime. 
A B.P. run early in the second half narrowed the score to 24-22, but Lewis countered with Lori Ciccone, who hit a 
see LEWIS, page 16 
Brundy pulls down a team­leading 10 boards a game for the 18-10 Blue Demons. The senior also leads DePaul in scoring with a 19.6 average and shoots at a 65 percent clip. 
"We're both transition teams and we're both good rebound­ing teams," Phelps said. "Brundy and (Terence) Greene, the seniors, obviously have that experience of knowing there is no tomorrow 
see DEMONS, page 15 






