
VOL XXII NO 121 TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
House Ethics charges Wright 
Associated Press that Wright is presumed inno­
cent until the charges are 

WASHINGTON-The House proven, and he underscored ethics committee, with that proving them requires a Democrats and Republicans much higher weight of united, formally charged evidence than the step taken Speaker Jim Wright Monday Monday, whichTs the panel's with 69 violations of the cham­equivalent of an indictment. ber's rules including what the The move set in motion a se­panel's chairman called "a ries of steps in which Wright scheme to evade" limits on out­can defend himself and the side earnings. panel must prove with "clear 
After a 10-month, $1.5 million and convincing" evidence that investigation, the committee of the violations occurred. That is six Democrats and six likely ultimately to throw the Republicans voted unani­matter before the full House, mously to issue a report finding where Wright's position as the "reason to believe" the Texas nation's highest elected Demo­Democrat had run afoul of crat, or even his House seat, Hou~e rules requiring report­could be on the line. ing of gifts, barring acceptance Wright immediately began of gifts from persons with a his defense in earnest, operat­direct interest in legislation ing what one supporter, Rep. and limiting outside earned in­Charles Wilson, D-Texas, come. called "a war room" out of his 
"I know in my heart I have office. "At some point we've not violated any of the rules of got to start figuring out who's that institution,'' Wright said in on our side and who's on the a speech to a labor meeting other side," Wilson said. shortly after the ethics report Wilson predicted Wright was released. would win on the floor, "losing 
He said he had asked "very a few cowardly Democrats and urgently, very earnestly" for a picking up some brave quick meeting with the the Republicans." committee "to confront them, The most serious allegation to confront the allegations against Wright, that he ac­head-on, face-to-face." cepted some $145,000 in gifts 
At a news conference, com­over a 10-year period from 
mittee chairman Rep. Julian 

Chicago destruction 
AP Photo Chicago firefighters douse still-smouldering embers Sunday following a fire that swept through a century-old building housing art galleries. The blaze destroyed the building and art works with a combined value of as much as $50 million. Officials have labeled the fire suspicious and are investigating. 
Dixon, D-Calif., emphasized see WRIGHT I page 3 

Frosh Advisory Council nixed 
By JEFF SWANSON  next year. President of the  of vans to bring luggage to  
Staff Reporter  class of '91 Rob Pasin moved  the Main Circle.  
for unanimous consent of the  The Student Senate also  
The Constitution of the  constitution. As no objec­ passed a resolution which  
Freshman Class Council  tions were raised, the consti­ begins the terms of the Stu­ 
was approved by the Student  tution was passed.  dent Union Board Executive  
Senate, Monday.  In other business, District  Council, Commissioners and  
The Constitution calls for  Four Senator Sigi Loya re­ Assistant Commissioners on  
the organization of a Fresh-.  ported that he was trying to  April1 as of next year. Raja  
man Class Council under the  convince United Limo to add  Singh, Student Union Board  
control of the student gov­ stops on campus for students  manager, put forth the  
ernment to replace the  who wish to take the bus  resolution to change the  
Freshman Advisory Council  shuttle to Chicago before  beginning of the term from  
which was under the author­ breaks. Currently, the  May 1.  
ity of the Freshman Year of  shuttle stops only at the  Student Body Vice Presi­ 
Studies.  Main Circle.  dent Dave Kinkopf an­ 
nounced the selection of John  
Theresa Murphy, a mem­ Loya said that many stu­ Hamill for chief of staff and  
ber of the 1988-89 Freshman  dents have complained to  Deanna Dobrowolski for sec­ 
Advisory Council, was cho­ him about the difficulty of  retary. He also presented  
sen last week by the Fresh­ carrying luggage to the  the three new hall presi­ 
man Advisory Council to  Main Circle. He said that the  dents. They are Sean Brown,  
serve as advisor to the  other option that he was  Mick Meyer and Christina  
Freshman Class Council for  looking into involved the use  Quiong.  

German bombing like Pan Am flight's 
Associated Press the bomo onto the jet that ex­but the manner in which it was ploded over Scotland on Dec. disguised was said to be WIESBADEN, West 21. All 259 people on the plane similar. Germany-A bomb similar to and 11 on the ground were Asked how police obtained the one that destroyed Pan Am killed. the radio-bomb that explodedFlight 103 exploded while being Another officer was criti­on Monday, Falk replied:examined Monday, killing an cally wounded in the explosion "This is in connection with our investigator in a case involving Monday at federal police previous investigation, but we Palestinians suspected of ter­headquarters, said spokesman cannot say more than that." 
rorism. Arno Falk of Bun­His reference was to raids in The federal prosecutor's of­deskriminalamt, the police October on hangouts of allegedfice reported evidence con­bureau. Palestinian terrorists in 
tradicting U.S. media reports It was not clear whether the 
Frankfurt and Neuss, a Dues-
that a Lebanese-American pas­bomb was seized in connection senger inadvertently carried with the Pan Am investigation, see BOMB 1page 4 

Walesa quickly moves to reorganize Solidarity 
Associated Press democratic restructuring of 
the state," he said. 
WARSAW, Poland-Lech The Warsaw provincial court W alesa on Monday called on registered the reborn Poles to rebuild Solidarity Solidarity in the same room "skillfully and quickly" just where its original charter was hours after a court declared the approved in November 1980. independent union legal again "We've just returned to the and ended seven years of gov­road of democracy and ernment suppression. freedom," Walesa said from 
"I appeal to all workers and tlis home in Gdansk, where he supporters of our union to form was recovering from a bad factory organizations as soon cold. as possible where they still Onyszkiewicz said W alesa don't exist and to report their stayed away in part because membership in Solidarity or to the union always regarded it­join it," said W alesa, in a state­self as legal, so the session had ment read in Warsaw by union "a technical rather than sym­spokesman Janusz bolic nature." Onyszkiewicz. Nevertheless, there was 
Onyszkiewicz said an inde­thunderous applause when the pendent union press should verdict was complete, sealing begin operating by the end of an about-face approved earlier the month, and that Solidarity by Communist Party leaders. should get new national Polish leader Gen. Wojciech headquarters in Gdansk by Jaruzelski tried to dissolve Tuesday. Solidarity in a December 1981 
"Our effort, devotion and suf­martial-law crackdown, but fering have not been in vain," now seeks the movement's help W alesa said in his statement. to pull Poland out of economic "We defended our workers' crisis. rights, together we are paving Senior Solidarity sources a road to a fully democratic hinted a meeting might take and sovereign Poland." place Tuesday between 
But he cautioned the "day of Jaruzelski and Walesa-the success" came in hard eco­army general and the union nomic times. electrician who are now part of 
"The Polish nation is facing an unlikely alliance for reform. tasks which are much more It would be their first meeting complex than in 1980. Now we since before martial law. must undertake a trial of real and deep economic reform and see WALESA I p~e 3 
• 

r 
~---------------~----~­
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, April 18, 1989. 
' 
WORLD BRIEFS 
The first contingent of Soviet soldiers and military hardware to be withdrawn from East Germany under a plan announced by President Mikhail Gorbachev will leave May 11, the Tass news agency said Tuesday. Gorbachev announced the unilateral troop cuts at the United Nations on Dec. 7. The withdrawal is expected to be completed by Aug. 15, the official news agency said. Gorbachev said there would be an overall troop reduction of 500,000 men, or 12 percent of the total Soviet troop strength, and the military budget would be cut by 14 per­cent. 
Israeli Prime Minister Shamirmade an unannounced visit to Hungary, and Israel radio reported the two countries ap­parently planned to renew diplomatic ties. A one-sentence an­nouncement by the official Hungarian news agency MTI said Shamir arrived in Budapest. It did not specify whether the visit was private or official and gave no other details. In Jerusalem, a Shamir aide confirmed the rare unannnounced trip and said the prime minister is due back on Tuesday. He refused to elab­orate on the purpose of the visit. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Does "The Big Chill" leave you cold? Tired of hearing "oldies" older than you on TV commercials? three exasperated young upstarts say, "Right on!" The reminder that the calendar says 1989 comes from the National Association for the Advance­ment of Time-three guys in their 20s who say "We want to end the '60s in your lifetime." "Let's make nostalgia a thing of the past!" say these fellows who've had enough of the baby boom­that huge post-World War II generation whose sheer bulk spurred creati~n of the retail market for teen-agers, divided the nation over VIetnam and now is taking up space discovering adulthood­marriage, careers and babies destined to grow up hearing stories about Woodstock. 
STATE BRIEFS 
A chocolate-lover's delightoccurred in Bremen, Ind. early Sunday when a candy-ladened tractor-trailer overturned on U.S. 6 spilling 15 million pieces of M&Ms. It took a dozen teen-agers almost eight hours to collect the 42,000 pounds of candy-including 
11.1 million pieces of plain M&Ms and 4.1 million pieces of peanut candy, said Police Chief Brown. Brown said the cleanup began at daylight and continued until mid-afternoon. "Everybody munched on some candy as they went," he said. 
Social worker ends a two-week fast Saturday in Shoal, Ind. Ray Strange said he ended his fast to call attention to the lack of funding for child-welfare caseworkers because his power of concentration began to suffer. The former Catholic priest, who had been on a liquid diet of fruit juice and Gatorade since April 4, celebrated his 60th birthday Monday. He said he planned no special celebration or meal, but just wanted to spend time with his family. · 
A pipe bomb exploded at a Kmart store in Indianapolis Monday night and took off several fingers of a 5-year-old girl, authorities said. No other persons were reportedly injured, but the mother of the child was treated for fainting, police said. The victim, Erin Bower, 5, of Indianapolis, was taken to Methodist Hospital, where she was in stable condition with face, abdomen and hand injuries and headed into surgery, spokesman David Richards said about 9:30p.m. EST. "Several fingers on the left hand were severed at the wrist. There was also some damage to the left eye," Richards said. The explosion occurred about 7:45p.m. at a K mart in the Castleton area on Indianapolis' far northeastside. The explosion did not cause a fire, authorities said. 
WEATHER 


So, so 

Partly sunny and cool today. Highs in the middle 50s. Mostly clear and cool tonight. Lows in the middle to upper 30s. Partly sunny Wednesday .. Highs in the upper 50s. 
ALMANAC 
On April 18: e In 1775: Paul Revere began his famous ride from Charlestown to Lexington, Mass., warning the 
American colonists that the British were coming. e In 1906: A devastating earth­
quake struck San Francisco, followed 
by fires. About 700 people died. e In 1923: The first game was played in Yankee Stadium. The Yan­kees defeated the Boston Red Sox, 4-1. 
e In 1934: The first laundro­mat, called a "washeteria" opened in Fort Worth, Texas. e In 1949: The Irish republic was proclaimed. e Ten Years Ago: In the landmark "palimony" case, actor Lee Marvin was ordered by a Los Angeles judge to pay Michelle Triola Marvin $104,000. 
MARKET UPDATE 


Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 
+0.73 
Closed at 2337.79 
Mark ...0025 to 1.8605 OM I $ Yen +.28to 132.16¥1$ 
Precious Metals 
Gold +$.20 to $386.20 I oz. Silver+ .5¢ to $5.831 oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 





Freshman Year classes uniformly uninspiring 

My freshman year here was academically so awful that I didn't want to come back. 
I wasn't having a difficult time adjusting, cer­tainly not to being away from home because home is only five minutes away. 
Rather, in the classroom my freshman year was a mediocre replica of senior year of high school, with nearly identical classes but teach­ers of lesser quality than those across the street at St. Joe. 
I entered my Composition and Literature course and was dismayed to read the syllabus. Most of the books, well actually stories, I had read in my English class freshman year of high school. 
As far as the composition part went, we ad­dressed such pressing issues as the topic sen­tence and "how to write a paragraph." 
Sadly, I imagine some of my classmates needed such remedial instruction, but no at­tempts at amends were made for the majority of the class who did not. 
I found myself in quite the opposite situation in my math classes. There I lagged behind, for unlike most of the class, I had had no calculus in high school. I have about the same knowledge of derivatives now as I did then. 
My math class was a typical of N.D., but with a twist. My prof didn't speak English either, but he was from France. I guess in some per­verse way this was advantagous because stu­dents in the class could resort to their high school French classes to ask him questions. I imagine precious few students in other sections had language experience in Chinese or Hindi. 
I passed the class with the help of tutoring through the Freshman Learning Resource Cen­ter. This is a wonderful program, but I think it is unfair to ask the tutors to actually teach the class, which is what happened in my case. 
Math second semester was a huge improve­ment. This professor was also foreign-born, but he was fluent in the English language so it posed no problem. 
Foreign students who wish to matriculate here must first pass the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). I don't know if professors must, but they should be required to. I am confident in saying my first math pro­fessor would have done about as well on the TOEFL as I did in his class. 
For my "Physics as a Liberal Art" class we had a full professor, but I don't think he had done much but direct post-doctoral theses for the past few decades. 
He was a little unprepared for our un­preparedness as well as our lack of interest in his life's work. So he basically didn't bother. Once again I had to rely on what I had learned 
OF INTEREST 
Notre Dame Crimestoppers would like to invite anyone interested in becoming in­volved in crime prevention and education to join the Crimestoppers Board. Please join us today at 4:30 in LaFortune's Sorin Room or call Joe Lacher at 283-3278. 
Senior Formal Bids are being mailed this week. Off-campus students should pick their bids up before Thursday in Rm. 126 Howard Hall. Call 283-2609 with questions. 
Laundry and Bourbon will be presented by Irish Accent today at 8:30p.m. followed by skits and improvisational comedy at Theodore's. 
An Tostal road wars bike race sign ups will be held at noon today at LaFortune Student 
'In the classroom, freshman year was a mediocre replica of senior year of high school. . .' 
Sara Marley News Editor 

in high school to get through my first year of college. 
At the height of his unprofessionalism and before the end of the semester, this professor read our teacheiicourse evaluations, which ap­parently had never found their way to the base­ment of the library. He commented on their unflattering attack on his course on the final day, which was to be a question-and-answer review session, and then stormed out. On the exam, he retaliated. 
The guidance I received at Freshman Year was nearly as fruitless as my classes. My "peer" advisor, a senior electrical engineering major, could not understand my poor perfor­mance in calculus. 
"After all," he told me, "that's a very easy course." 
~ doubt the University thought they were gomg to turn me into a math or physics major by making me take math and science classes. I could have told them when I was in third grade that I didn't like either. 
Rather, I imagine the aim is to make sure I got a well-rounded, broad education. I believe only two years of high school math are required to get in here, but most students take four, as well as requirements of biology, chemistry and physics. I think students know by the time they reach this level what they like and what they don't like. 
The math and science courses offered in the freshman year are those which prepare the stu­dents for more advanced classes which they are never going to take. If the University is going to require these courses, they should take them seriously, offer good teachers and courses geared towards Arts and Letters majors. 
Were there bright spots in freshman year? Yes, my electives but there were precious few of them. Choosing classes now with only two semesters left here, I realize the number of courses I am interested in which I will not be able to take. I wish so much of my precious class time freshman year hadn't been wasted. 
Sara Marley is a junior majoring in English and German and serves as News Editor at The Observer. 
Center and on April 20 at Saint Mary's. The races will be 4 and 12 miles in length. The race will be on April 27 at 5 p.m., starting at the Angela Athletic Center at Saint Mary's. Prizes for top male and female finishers. For more information call Darin or Eric at 283-3472. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. 

Tuesday's Staff 
Dealgn Editor............................ Kathy Huston Design Aaaletant.................. Tricia Grohman Typuett11111 .................................... Tim Kiefer

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.......................................................... Mike Kolar News Editor .......................... Christine Walsh

(219) 239-7471 Copy Editor............................... Missy Weber Sporta Copy Editor................ Scott Brutocao VI-point Copy Editor ........ J. Scharienberg Accent Editor......................... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor ............... Paige Smoron
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
Accent Designer....................... Paul lndeglia

during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
Typfata ........................................... Will Zamer University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­
. ................................................... Oiana Bradley chased for S40 per year 1$25 per semester) by writing The Observer. NO D•y Editor ............... Margaret McCloskey The Observer is a member ol The Associated Press. All reproduction rights SMC DIIY Editor.................. Rozel Galmailan are reserved. 
page 3 

Eng. soccer safety 
Police to try better crowd control 
Associated Press forced to hand over his keys to a police inspector. 
SHEFFIELD, England-"I handed the keys to him Criticism increased Monday and told him it was his respon­into the police handling of the sibility and not mine," Stone soccer stadium disaster that was quoted as saying.killed 94 fans, and the govern­ment launched its own inquiry Liverpool fan Stephen Mit­and said it may ban standing­ton, who was caught in the room-only sections. crush outside the gate, told 
Officials and fans accused BBC-TV: the South Yorkshire police of letting thousands of late ar­"The steward put his hand on rivals into Hillsborough the gate and said, 'Don't open 
stadium-and then responding it.' The police said, 'Open the 
too slowly when the surging gate. There's going to be a crowd was crushed against a 
crush.' Then two police officers 

steel anti-riot fence in one of opened the gate." the standing-room-only ter­races. The crush was so great, Mit­
Home Secretary Douglas ton said, that fans fell on the Hurd, speaking to a hushed floor and people climbed over House of Commons, said the in­them. "All the police were quiry headed by Lord Justice doing was standing up saying Taylor would begin work Tues­'Get back, get back.' There day and "make recommen­were already people dead then. dations about the needs of I climbed on them to get over crowd control and safety at the fence." sports grounds." 
"We have to set our sights The Sheffield Star said a high and find a better way for police superintendent made the British football (soccer)," decision to open the 16-foot­Hurd said. "We owe a duty to wide gate because he feared a these passionate supporters of wall was seconds away from football to examine urgently collapsing on hundreds of fans. and thoroughly the causes and background and to do all in our "Startled officers-some of power to prevent such a thing them hemmed in-thought the happening again.'' wall was beginning to buckle 
Hurd told the Commons the under the enormous pressure decision of a senior police offi-of screaming fans. The crowd cer to open the gate because he was packed so tightly around a "considered that there was a police horse that it was lifted possible danger to the lives of six inches off the ground," the the spectators at the front" paper said. would be a central question for investigators. Survivors said South Yorkshire police, who about 4,000 fans were pushing have handed over a separate at turnstiles to get inside. investigation of the policing of 
Hillsborough gatekeeper the match to the neighboring Jack Stone told the Sheffield West Midlands police force, Star he refused police orders to refused to comment on the open the outer 151te and was Sheffield Star report. 
Tuesday, April 18, 1989 
The Observer 

.____________. months of pregnancy. And if 

HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY LISA! 
We love you! 
Mom, Dad, Patty, Michelle & Brian 
ANNUAL MIDWEST INFORMATION PROCESSING <.md BUSINESS EXPOSITION held at the CENTURY CENTER South Bend, Indiana 
Sponsored by the MICHIANA CHAPTER OAT A PROCESSING MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION 
Shows dates: April 18th and 19th, 1989 Show hours: April 18th 1Oam -?pm April 19th 10am -6pm Seminars: Both days 1Oam -5pm are free 
Exposition: Admission by ticket Non-ticket holders: Adults $3.00 Students $1.00 
DPMA provides edu~~tio~! of Information Processing and related business products to its members and to the community 
Over 100 Booths of Business Information 
each state make its own abor­tion law, 57 percent would want abortion legal in their state. 
Moreover, large majorities said outlawing abortion would fail to prevent it from occurring-an argument used by those who argue many wo­men would have unsafe illegal abortions if the operation were banned. 
The poll asked: "If abortion were illegal in your state, do you think that would stop most women there who want abor­tions from having them, or would most of them go to an­other state where it was le­gal?" Eighty-seven percent said the women would go to an­other state . 
And 

FULLY FURNISHED 
EXECUTIVE SUITES 
ELEGANT & SPACIOUS 1 , 2 and 3 bedroom apartments 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from 
Notre Dame Campus 
~ 

1671 Riverside Dr. · L.:.J CALL 233-2212 ~= 
NEW YORK-Though a sizable minority of adults op­pose abortions, Americans overwhelmingly believe that banning them would do little to curtail them, a Media General­Associated Press survey has found. 
With the U.S. Supreme Court poised to reconsider the issue next week, the national poll found support for legal abor­
tion ranging from 50 percent to 65 percent of the 1,108 adults polled, depending on the ques­
tion posed. Fifty-three percent, for ex­ample, were in favor of the court's 1973 ruling legalizing abortion in the first three 

The panel agreed with its His financing arrangements counsel, Phelan, that Mallick's with savings and loan institu­
Wright 
major interests in real estate tions also gave him an interest 
continued from page 1 and oil and gas ventures and in in legislation involving the S&L redevelopment of Fort Worth's industry, the committee found. George Mallick, a Fort Worth historic stockyards district developer, also had the nar­gave him a direct interest in But Wright's lawyer, rowest margin of support on legislation on taxation and on William Oldaker, called that the ethics committee. certain appropriations bills. "doublespeak:' 
Walesa

BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 
continued from page 1 
Party and government offi­cials also admit that by legaliz­

~iH:Ij~l~l:l 
ing the union they hope to en­courage the West to provide

BICYCLES •EXERCISERS ..BMX HEADQUARTERS 
economic help to Poland, bur­

SALES-SERVICE-PARTS-ACCESSORIES 
dened by a $38 billion foreign

SUMMER STORAGE • • • ClOSED SIINDAY & MONflAY 
debt:

AVAILABLE TUESDAY lOAM 7PM 
W[I;N£SflAY-SATUROAY lOAM 5 30PM President Bush on Monday ROSELAND MISHAWAKA announced an aid package to help Poland's economy. He told
277-8866 259-4862 
a Polish-American crowd in Hamtramck, Mich., that con­tinued aid would depend on con­sistent moves by the commu­

r----------------~----, 
nist government toward

FREE 
SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR reform. 
The concessions could open

STUDENTS WHO NEED 
the way for up to $1 billion in new loans, loan rescheduling and trade and investment

MONEY FOR COLLEGE 
relief, according to administra­Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of tion and international mone­Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. tary sources. 
• 
We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fellowships, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion in private sector funding. 

• 
Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. 

• 
There's money available for students who have been newspaper car­riers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ...etc. 

• 
Results GUARANTEED. 


CALL For A Free Brochure • 
a! 
I /Ju•J/IMJt/llflll'l':o.IJ/IIIIIUnlliiii'IIJIIIIIIIIIIJ}I fOII'tl, l••w•tt.g lmmin'ft.... Juum'l'~' /f lfllll ow·l .,,.,,.

ANYTIME (800) 346-6401 tiJ !fW uw,Jtr tu I•· mJ"""'"'
'il"'lf' tm;,, u,fl,•lt' 

L--------------------:-~ ==+ 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, April 18, 1989 
Escapee hurt in copter crash 
Associated Press 
MIAMI-A helicopter swooped into a prison's high­security exercise yard Monday and a convicted drug kingpin jumped aboard, but the chop­per caught a fence and crashed in the yard, injuring the would­be escapee and his pilot. 
Benjamin Kramer, 36, a former powerboat champion serving life without parole as the leader of a marijuana­trafficking ring, broke his right leg in the accident. The pilot suffered two broken legs and facial injuries. 
"Kramer apparently was ready, and as soon as the helicopter was there, he jumped right into it," said John Clark, warden at the federal Metropolitan Correctional Cen­ter. 
Clark said three armed guards watched but did not react because they did not want to shoot into the prison yard, where a half-dozen men were exercising. He also said they feared there might be a hostage in the helicopter. 
Most of MCC is medium­security, but Kramer and about 50 other prisoners were being held in a special high­security area because they were considered escape risks. 
The two-seater Bell helicop­ter, a type once used for mili­tary reconnaissance but now used mainly for aerial photog­raphy or crop-spraying, flew into the prison just after 10 a.m., Clark said. 
It dropped low enough for Kramer to jump onto one lan­ding skid, and was beginning to rise when its tail rotor caught in barbed wire atop the metal fence around the exer­cise area. 
Clark said at least one other prisoner may have tried to jump on the helicopter, pos­sibly destabilizing the small craft. 
The accident sent pieces of the rotor and the fence hurtling hundreds of yards. 
"It's lucky more people weren't hurt," Clark said. 
Prison guards immediately pulled Kramer and the pilot from the wreckage and ad­ministered first aid before they were taken to a hospital. 
Clark said the pilot carried identification in the name of Charles Sterns, 34, but added that authorities were unsure if it was his or was a phony docu­ment intended for Kramer. 
The Bell 47D-1 helicopter, built in 1952, was reported sold in January to C. Stevens of Gold Beach, Ore., according to the Federal Aviation Administra­tion. 
Stevens, a sea urchin diver, worked with Sin Loy, a com­mercial diving operation in Gold Beach, according to a man who answered the phone there. Stevens left town about a month ago. 
2 corpses 'complicate case' 

Associated Press 
MATAMOROS, Mexico-The discovery of two bodies near a ranch where 13 mutilated corpses were found last week delayed the filing of Mexican charges Monday against mem­bers of a human-sacrificing cult, officials said. 
The cult also is suspected of killing the newly discovered victims. 
Two bodies of suspected drug traffickers missing since May were unearthed Sunday on a collective farm two miles south of the Rancho Santa Elena, where 13 corpses were found last week. 
The two victims, Moises Cas­tillo, 52, of Houston and Hector de la Fuente, 39, who lived on 
Bomb 
continued from page 1 
seldorf suburb, in which weap­ons and explosives were seized. 
Asked about a possible link between the Wiesbaden and Pan Am bombs, Falk said: "Any reports to that effect are just speculation." He repeated official assertions that no evidence has been found linking the Pan Am bombing directly with terrorism suspects in West Germany. 
Brunhilde Spies-Mohr, a spokeswoman for the police agency, said in a statement: "During investigation of a sus­picious device suspected of containing explosives, a detonation occurred. The ma­terial that exploded was a device obtained during investi­gation of Palestinian terror­ists." 
A second explosive device was disarmed without incident after part of the Bun­deskriminalamt building was evacuated as a precautionary measure, the statement said. 
Spies-Mohr said the federal prosecutor's office in Wies­baden was investigating the ex­plosion at police headquarters. No one answered the telephone at the prosecutor's office Mon­day night. 
Investigators in the Pan Am case have concluded the bomb exploded when a detonator sensitive to air pressure set off plastic explosives packed into a radio cassette-player stored in the cargo hold. 
a small communal farm west of Matamoros, did not appear tortured or mutilated like the others, officials said. 
Castillo's father, Hidalgo Castillo, 76, of Brownsville, said he found $70, a pair of eyeglasses and a passport in his son's pocket when he helped police dig up the bodies. 
Formal Mexican federal charges were to have been filed Monday against four men in custody here, but the new deaths complicated the case, said Jose Arroyo, Mexico's chief federal narcotics inves­tigator for northeastern Tamaulipas state. 
Silva said authorities were considering adding the latest victims' deaths to the murder, kidnapping, drug and weapons charges already pending against the four suspects. 
"It's a big case, not simple, and there are a lot of details to attend to before we take them before the court," Silva said. 
Although relatives disputed the description, officials said the two newly found victims were drug traffickers somehow involved with the cult allegedly led by Adolfo Constanzo, 26, and Sara Aldrete, 24. 
Constanzo, a Cuban-American who lived for a time in Miami, and Aldrete, a Texas college student who authorities said lived a double life as the "witch" of the ritualistic cult, were at large Monday. 
HOOT is here to save the Day! 
Happy 20th 
Love, YOUR ROOMIES 


("\ JORDAN 
cO~v FORD '" ~ '"' IoYOlA 
X:..~c-0~'1. 

:Lr: 
~ ~~ 
New & Used Cars & Trucks 
Ext. 667 
t/c..,~.._(

f\f't\)~ ~ E Jeflerson Boulevard Phone (219) 25&-1981 ~1 r'V p o Box 370 Elkhart Area Cal (219) 674·9926 Q ~ ~ ~oshawaka. IN 46545 Indiana Toll Free(800) 451.as:;6 
?~oo.~t>~ 

$400 REBATE* 
Largest Ford Inventory #1 Selling Ford Dealer in Country For further information, call Elizabeth 
* This is in addition to any present program 
AP Photo

Solidarity legalized 
Journalist and top Solidarity advisor Tadeusz Mazowiecki, center, looks towards Henryk Kankowski as they leave the Warsaw Regional Court in Poland Monday following the Court's decision to allow Solidarity to act legally torr the first time since the martial law crack­down in Dec., 1981. Story, p.1. 
1~::::::::::::···· a.M~~:::::::::::::::r~
~ 
....,.,.... 

ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS 
The Air Force can make you an attractive offer-out­standing compensation plus opportunities for professional development. You can have a challenging practice and time to spend with your family while you serve your country. Find out what the Air Force offers. Call 
USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 1-800-423-USAF 
TOLL FREE --.----.
AIK.....-!>

IW=::::::::::::::::::I!FF~~:.~~F:-;i~~~~~==~~ 
An Invitation to find out what the 
Gender Studies Concentration 
is all about 


Come one! 
Come all! 


A Reception: Snite Museum Courtyard Date: Tuesday, April 18 Time: 5:00p.m. 
Refreshments 

Current members of Concentration to share their views. 

--------~­
Viewpoint
Tuesday, April 18, 1989 p~e 5 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2~9)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .•........................ John Blasi Systems Manager ......•...... Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector................... Angela Bellanca Controller ............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the pohc1es of the adm1mstration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief. Manag1ng Ed1tor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Ed1tor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Commentaries, lellers and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free express1on of varying opmions on campus, through 
letters. 1s encouraged. 
~----------------------------------------------­

LETTERS 
Controversy over divestment in South Africa continues 
Support for democratic institutions will help end the struggle in South Africa 
Dear Editor: num's arguments are no less Dame murders again. certainly hold out a lot longer democratic South African 
South Mrican human rights fatuous than those put forth by The only way to escape guilt than countless needy black sportswomen and men. Make activists are the envy of their Conservatives in South Mrica: would be for you to work for South Mricans. contact with democratic edu­colleagues in other parts of the nobody divested before complete isolation of South cational institutions and sup­world because of the sincere in­reform; the obvious solution is Mrica. No humanitarian aid-­Moreover, when our people port democratic religious or­ternational interest which the thus to turn the block back to nothing, because every black finally get their well-deserved ganizations. Never deal with struggle against apartheid has the sixties to attract foreign in­child a foreigner feeds leaves freedom, we will almost cer­the South Mrican government, created. Because of worldwide vestment! the South Mrican government tainly discover the tragedy of never invest in companies, like attention, we have a unique op­Let me illustrate the differ­with more money to keep the so many drawn-out revolu­Coca-Cola, which (Sullivan's portunity, but with it comes the ences between my arguments present structures intact. If I tions : nobody can constitute principles or not) make money responsibility to channel that and Tom Varnum's. When I imagine an isolated South free and just structures out of by relying on apartheid's struc­attention in the right direction. return to South Mrica some­Mrica, I can see apartheid that ensuing chaos; the real tures. Help us to replace the 
The simplistic analysis of the time next month, I would like bleeding to death, but not for a struggle has only just begun. present structures with demo­issue of divestment at Notre every Notre Dame student to decade or so. Let me explain. cratic ones. Dame reached a climax in Tom give me ten dollars to hand The South Mrican government But, before I'm accused of Varnum's contribution to over to a st~·.rving and homeless started 30 years ago to gear the justifying the present racist It might take us longer to Viewpoint (The Observer, black South Mrican family. economy up in order to regime's hegemony, let me gain control this way, or it April12). In five easy steps Mr. Surely a philanthropic commu­withstand isolation; white present my alternative. I would might not--but it seems to me Varnum "succeeded" in reduc­nity like Notre Dame would South Mrica is already booted like Notre Dame to support the the only way to constitute the ing every Notre Dame student agree... as long as the poor and spurred, and produces democratic socio-economic in­freedom and justice we are all to a supporter of murder: You people don't buy bread from more arms daily. Whites lack stitutions which already exist hoping to see in South Mrica. pay Notre Dame which invests tax-paying bakeries or pay rent neither the resources nor the in South Mrica. Invest in dem­in companies that pay taxes to for government-owned houses, determination to stay in power. ocratic businesses which deal J ohan de W aal a government who "buys" because then according to Mr. Of course, isolated, they can't with democratic lawyers and Off-campus guns to kill people. Mr. Var-Varnum's argument, Notre hold out forever, but they can accountants; play sport with April12, 1989 
Freedom can only be achieved through divestment and resistance 
Dear Editor: through actual, physical pres­pull out and leave you all alone reach that "bottom". Interven­
Many people in the United ence in the offending country. because we certainly wouldn't tion with drug addicts forces a States today have allowed Perhaps, through token want to see your economy col-crisis which in turn causes the themselves to be lulled into a microcosmic policies exer­lapse. That would just increase addict to take a good hard look state of complacency. The cised within the invested cor­the unemployment and the vio-at reality. ideologies so vehemently porations, the multinationals lence and the conflict..." defended by Professor Car­could somehow make the South The same holds true for the berry at the panel discussion African government "see the But don't these companies South Mrican situation. Di­on divestment are, at least in light." As evidenced by the see that a collapse of the eco­vestment, along with other part, responsible for this. And ever worsening situation in nomy is exactly what must oc­forms of sanctions, as well as yet, a fatal flaw exists in these South Mrica, this clearly mis­cur? This attitude bears a sig­persistent black resistance to ideologies which have stood as represents reality. nificant resemblance to the apartheid, will cause the final the cornerstone of many anti­Continued investment in relationship many families crisis necessary to force South divestment arguments. South Mrica makes each and maintain with drug addicts in Mrica to admit the need for 
Carberry suggested that the every one of us enablers to their midst. Drug addicts can't fundamental change. It won't United States and our their crime. By staying there get real help unless they hit a be a pretty sight in the begin­numerous multinational com­and playing by their rules, we "bottom" and realize that they ning, (detoxification never is,) panies could accomplish more send the South African govern­actually need help. Enablers but the results are well worth good in South . Mrica if they ment a silent message of ap­allow the addict to go on believ­the price paid. remained invested there. The proval. "Don't worry, we may ing that the problem doesn't ex­foundation of this argument not approve in principle but we ist. Addicts remain sheltered Jennifer Hayes lies in the belief that more in­will continue to pay you taxes from the repercussions of their Lyons Hall fluence may be wielded to fund your racism. We won't actions and therefore cannot April13, 1989 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 


ANfJ IT'5 A 7rJ8ACCO aJMP~ Of AU 7HING5l 7Hf3Y !A/ANT M/3 TO PITOI OGA!<flTE35 TO 
7Hl3 "f3NTRY-L&Vet" 5MOI<f3R I 
I 

~=....Jv'V,;;; 
WHAT ABOUTti1Y 5!3NS!3 OF 50CIAL­/?156PON8181U7Y! M'/ 5/3l.F-J?e.S?tCT~ J.J.,aJOUW YOU 
00 5UOI A THING~ 
I 
MIGIAt:l-, YOU'RE 
TAmNG 70 sattt:ON/3 Y&S? WHO JU5T fiN!SH/31/ PAINTING lJONAW 
71?i/MP'5 BA71-fi?OOM.
;:I 
'It often happens that those of whom we speak least on earth are best known in heaven' 
Nicolas Caussin 

Accent
page 6 Tuesday, April 18, 1989 

New comedy has a lot of heart 
CBS' 'Heartland' depicts real life on the farm 
D
eep in the hearts of 
most programming ex­

ecutives is the desire and 
dream to present an enter­
taining and original televi­
sion show that epitomizes 
the word "quality" and 
captivates audiences. Of 
course, the networks sel­
dom reach this almost un­
attainable goal. CBS, 
however, takes viewers 
this season right to this 
"Heartland." 
This new situation com­
edy, "Heartland," airs at 
7:30 Mondays on CBS. Starring Brian Keith as B.L., this program centers on the lives of family members on a small farm in Nebraska. The family itself is an interesting one. 
B.L. is Casey's (Kathleen Layman) father, who lost his farm and moved in with his daughter. Casey's husband, Tom Stratford (Richard Gilliland), does not exactly love B.L., but tries to cope for Casey's sake. 
Casey and Tom have three children: Johnny (Jason Kristofer), who wants to move to L.A. to be a movie star, Gus (Devin Ratray), who exists solely to antagonize Johnny (and eat), and Kim (Daisy Keith), an adopted daughter who enjoys the fact she's not related to Johnny genetically. 
The premise is basically that of a family living "down on the farm" and dealing with problems that may occur. With Johnny in the family, those problems are likely to occur often. In one hilarious episode, Johnny sneaks out of the house late at night to go skinny dipping with the "cool kids" from his school. While he's in the water, they hide his clothes and Johnny steals a girl's dress from a store to cover himself. When he arrives home, his family is stunned. 
Kim asks, "Is it me, or does he look like Sandy Duncan?'' Casey tries to reassure Johnny (after Gus 

Joe Bucolo 
To be continued ... 
flees the room laughing): "Don't worry. This will blow over." Johnny quips, "Yeah, like Chernobyl." 
The relationship between 

B.L. and Tom puts strength into this comic land. B.L. constantly ridicules and insults Tom, who retorts in more violent 
. means. "I'm going to have someone kill your father," Tom says. "He's family," Casey replies, "Kill him yourself." When Tom an­nounces that the corn crop died, B.L. replies, "I'm surprised you can grow fin­gernails." 
It is refreshing and unique for writers to pres­ent a situation comedy in such a realistic fashion. Viewers who want to throw up at the fact that TV families usually get along so disgustingly well will enjoy "Heartland." Seldom would a father-in-law and his daughter's family live together in peace and har­mony. The show explores this humorous, often frustrating situation in a witty fashion. 
The cast is a talented one. Of course, Brian Keith is a television veteran; 
however, the show intro­duces Keith's real-life daughter Daisy to viewing audiences. In the spirit of her father, she is a talented and exceptional performer. The stars of the show are Jason Kristofer and Devin Ratray, who give new life to the rela­tionship usually depicted between television siblings. Kristofer portrays his char­acter as an unusual, yet caring young man. His desire to leave Nebraska for a career in Hollywood is intriguing as well. Ratray is chubby, sloppy, and very funny. His com­ments and sarcasm are unique, yet familiar to those in the audience with a similar sibling. 
"Heartland" is a refresh­ing, funny situation com­edy. The premise and char­acters are entertaining, and the comedy is witty and full of life. Hopefully, CBS will continue to produce shows with the quality and creativity that comes from the heart of "Heartland." 
Stay Tuned: "Knots Landing" is now televi­sion's most-watched nighttime soap opera. It has finally overcome the competition offered in its timeslot by "L.A. Law," and is the only soap whose ratings have risen this season. NBC has renewed its popular sitcom "Night Court" for two more years. Among the shows which may not live to see next season are ABC's "Hooper­man" and CBS' "Falcon Crest" and "Beauty and the Beast." The networks will announce their list of cancelled shows in late Spring. 
New improv group leaves 'em laughing 
The Observer I Andrew McCloskey 

Sophomore Jennifer Ahrens, left, and freshman Anna Wiese, right, members of Irish Accent, act out "Graceland," a one-act play. 
IRISH ACCENT 


Modelled after the Second City in Chicago, Irish Accent specializes in improvisation skits which allow some audience participation. 


Brian Keith, left, stars as the patriarch of a modern-day Nebraska farm family in CBS' new comedy series "Heartland." He is joined at right with his television family, Jason Kristofer, foreground, Kathleen Layman and Richard Gilliland, middle row, and Daisy Keith and Devin Ratray, top row. 
BUZZ MC FLATTOP MICHAEL F. MULDOON 
~ 1Zt>k 11tG. RALG.

t.#{A1' 'lx; ,¥£ ~-ri:l ~ 
1lv S$1!/ovSt..)'.

IS~ 0\t:f 1'1(e ~~ /ti,Vt. ~ ~Ell 7b 
~711!.1~ 

CHRIS MALLOY 
accent writer 
S 
o you say you haven't had any fun this year? Noth­ing more exciting than an over-crowded off -campus party on St. Louis Street? Now there is something to take away your weekday blues. It's a group called Irish Accent. They don't sing, but they will make you roll over in your seat laughing. 
With thirteen "players" in the group, Irish Accent per­forms both memorized and improvised comedy skits at Theodore's. Doug Heberle, president of Irish Accent, and Tim Farish, vice president, founded the club three months ago because they recognized a need for someth­ing of the sort. They wanted to "give Notre Dame someth­ing new" to watch. 
Modelled after the Second City in Chicago, Irish Accent specializes in improvisation skits which allow some audi­ence participation. In one type of improv routine called the Sphinx, three players stand on the stage and the audience can ask one ques­tion. The three members respond saying one word each until they form an appropri­ate three-word answer. 
In another routine, the audi­ence picks three or four types of movies, such as thriller or science fiction. The director shouts out one of the audi­ence's selections and the players start acting within that scenario. At any time, the director can call out an­other name and the actors must adjust accordingly. 
When asked about his plans for next year, Heberle men­tioned a few possibilities such as theatre on the quad, and an alliance with Irish In­sanity. But he states flatly that "we leave it up to the group. It's in their hands." 
Heberle hopes that the group can continue at Notre Dame, even after he and the original members leave. Hopefully we can look for­ward to some good comedy for years to come. 
Irish Accent's upcoming shows include the play "Laundry and Bourbon" at 8:30p.m. tonight, and "Lonestar" at 9:15p.m. on Tueday, April 25. Both of these shows will be per­formed at Theodore's. 

-~~------~---~-~--~~----------~-~~---~-~---..,...------.....----­
Tuesday, April 18, 1989 The Observer page ?. 
Bookstore: road to terrific 256 
Stepan 6 Stepan 1 by 14 Monday's Results 4:45-Howie's Heroes over We're better in bed 4:00-The kids from the gritty streets vs. Flipper 
& ihe undertows II4:00-Rodan, Sky, & 3 Other Guys over St. Ed's 5:30-It's all about Dissin' cuz over Slo-Punch ~ Duggan & guys who've slept with Duggan 
Stringers by 7 by 10 
vs. Nasty Norm & the gnashing.. beat Valpo by 11 6:15-4 Guys who fill a lane over Taller Lying 5:30-Jeff & 4 Skins vs. Corrines 5:30-Kentl's getting married over X by 14 down by 7 
4:45-We're not cheeseheads over We could 6:15-3 Engaged guys & 2 not vs. Adwork's 
Lyons 11 All-Stars Kicker&Kissers by 2 4:00-Baldheaded big daddies & the... over Bookstore 9 
Stepan 2 We're shirts by 13 4:00-Fugitive Guys Finale vs. Digger Phelps & 4:00-Grounds keepers of Busch Gardens over 4:45-Nice but nasty over The president, beer, ... 4 Guys who can't win the ... The Ultimate Set of Tools by 14 6:15-Harvey Firestein & 4 Other Guys over 
by 2 4:45-Red Snapper vs. Air Satan & the disciples 4:45-Hey Elmer give me your lunch money 5:30-Air Check & ground support over So I got of Doom over Phi (we can't) ... by 5 my tongue by 3 
5:30-4 Long cookies & a chocolate chip vs. 1 5:30-Gauchos over The Traveling Digger­6:15-Acta Sanctorium over Best of the West 
berries by 17 by 8 Stag & 4 stallions 6:15-Dr. Love & the Passion Quartet over War Lyons 12 6:15-Chestnut Mousse Lightning vs. Stanford Pigs Revenge by 14 . 4:00-Nuff Said over The morning missiles by "A" 
Step~n 3 14 Bookstore 10 4:00-One Jerk too Many over What's Mayo 4:45-Butti Gums over Rubber Duckies by 4 4:00-Sly & the family Stone vs. Boink Burning? by 6 5:30-The Rectifiers over The Exchange by 3 4:45-Train & the Fuzz Busters vs. Only girts 4:45-Dawn is Smooth over Global Order Trot­6:1,5-CJ's Pub over Doyle's Dynamic dunkers can beat us ters by 5 by 12 5:30-5 Hodgemasters vs. Hoopsters from hell 5:30-The good, the bad, and the laundry over 6:15-We got the tools but not the talent vs. 4 
If this were Nintendo ... by 9 Guys & a cute ballhandler 6:15-Dr. Ruth's Soldiers of Sex over We always Tuesday's Games Lyons 11 lose in the first round by 5 Stepan 1 4:00-Corporate Raiders vs. Pink Steel 
Stepan 4 4:00-Clockwork Orange vs. Stinky Pinkys 4:45-The Keltic Savants vs. Stoney & the Friday 
4:00-5 Guys who get their dates drunk ... over 4:45-Maureen McFadden is a fabulous babe Night Wrecking Crew Towers of Power by 11 vs. Maui wowie 5:30-Ebert & the Rockers vs. The Dream Ma­4:45-We can't play but we ... over Dirty Oogs 5:30-The Plumbers vs. Love Handles chine 
and a good reason... by 5 6:15-Get of our tips vs Boob Leffler and the 6:15· Orange Blossom Special got derailed by 5:30-Big Ball Boys over The Go Team by 9 Shamokin. Jeff vs. 4 Guys who like girls & .. 6:15-Small but huge over Mary 3.1415 by 14 Stepan 2 Lyons 12 
Stepan 5 4:00-Scumbags vs. Lenny's American Grill 4:00-Murphy's Men vs. Kitty Dukakis & 4 others 
4:00-2 Third Stringers & 3 Right... over John 4:45-Asmadeus & the Clameaters vs 4 Guys destined to Tower's Drinking Buddies.. by 11 who like girts & a texan 4:45-Not a chance in hell vs. Cavanaugh Fun 4:45-Mike & the Minstrel Cycles over We got 5:30-Medicine in motion & a history guy vs. Warriors & Rob 
cut from Adworks by 17 Clueless IV: The Final Chapter 5:30-We're better than a sharp stick in the eye 
5:30-Khomeni's Bounty Hunters over Pants 6:15-1 Jim bob daddy otis & 4 ... vs. Supreme vs. Fletch on Ice without zippers by 15 Dorl<s 6:15-The Mephistophelian Meatuses vs. 5 Larry 6:15-Wally, Eddy, Ward ... over The Masters Stepan 3 Birds who can't shoot Thesp1ans by 11 4:00-Malicious Prostitution vs. 5 Guys who can't I Court 1 
Stepan 6 score inside 4:00-Sparky's Franchise II vs. Cassidy's Roost 4:00-Salaam Alaikum over Slobbering 4:45-The masters: disciples of the death ball 5:00-Playmates Reunited vs. One Girt wijh Ex-
Labradors by 9 vs. Phil the man & the dudes perience 4:45-Vanilla Thunder over John Tower's Boys 5:30-Pontius PiHe's Nail Drivin' 5 vs. The 2nd Court 2 by 4 
Book of Maccabees 4:00-We've Never been scored upon vs. 5 Girts 
5:30-Snarl< over Ted Bundy & the Electrics by 6:15-Teetles & the 4 rips vs. Ocean Motion who love to score 3 Stepan 4 5:00-5'3" & Under Again vs. Wait till you see 6:15-Swish Swish Brick over We may not win 4:00-The Fellas vs. Star's Studs us really play 
but we get chicks by 9 4:45-Freak vs. Air Border & the milkman Court 3 
Bookstore 10 5:30-Fighlin' Iris vs. The violaters 4:00-Jaggermonsters vs. The After Flues 4:00-The staggering deficits over We've got 6:15-The Cotton Club vs. Scooter McCully's 5:00-The Birds vs. The Vixens armadillos in our trousers by 7 Humdog Sandwich ... Court 4 
4:45-The Brickmasons over What the heck is Stepan 5 4:00-Jerome & the Bouncers vs. Revenge of a meatless cheeseburger by 9 4:00-4 Men & a red-headed stepchild vs. Beeler's Chicks 5:30-MBA's over Physical Plant Ill by 9 Bumblebees II 5:00-5 Lazy Seniors vs. Supreme Court 6:15-Barry Switzer, AI Capone,... over Logan 4:45-BV Deviants vs. WNDU Stepan 1 & 4 Guys without ankle ... by 9 5:30-Quayle, Phelps, & 3 Others ... vs. Duke & 1 :00-Hoosier Lawyers vs. The Ballhandlers ­
Bookstore 9 the dongs Mike 4:00-Murphy's Bar over 4 Dribblers & a Shooter 6:15-Spud Webb & 4 other short guys vs. A 4:00-2 Shots on Ha, Ha, Ha vs. Hungry Wom­by 17 really bad cough bats 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
In NBA action last night, Boston defeated Charleotte 113-108 in overtime, Chicago outlasted New York 104-100, and Houston beat San Antonio 99-91. -Associated Press 
The Blue-Gold Game will be held Saturday, April 22, at 1:30p.m. in the stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at gates 15 and 16. Spouses and children must have a ticket. General admission tickets for the public are available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday at gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Adult tickets are $3 in advance and $4 game day. Youth tickets are $1.50 in advance and $2 the day of the game. -The Observer 
The Bengal Bouts Banquet will be held for all boxers Wednesday, April19, at 5:30p.m., at St. Hedwig's Parish. Call Mike at x3386 for more information. -The Ob­server 
Bookstore Basketball is looking for referees to start on Monday, April24. The pay has increased to $8 per game. Call Jeff at x1504 for more information. -The Observer 
Women's track team will hold a mandatory meeting today at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room. Call Wendy at 684-4052 if unable to attend. -The Observer 
The Men's Volleyball Club wil sponsor a Draw Quads Volleyball Tournament as a fundraiser. Players will be assigned to one of four positions and put on teams by a blind draw. Play will begin at 7 p.m. Wednesday, April19 on the courts in the ice rink of the Joyce ACC. Call Mike at x1986 or Jim at x1844 for more information. -The Observer 
Off-Campus lacrosse has a game today at 8 p.m. on Cartier Field vs. Grace. Call Bill at 287-5758 for more information. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 unttl 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
l 
HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE SUMMER JOBS Ride needed to Cols., OH, leaving p.m. SCAP ..... The Word of the Futurell! Use THANK YOU ST. JUDE SUMMER-NEAA CAMPUS. 232-3616 ALL LANDWATER SPORTS it NOW!! 
Apr. 28, returning Apr. 30 Pat x2036

NOTICES 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 710 REX STREET ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
COME TO THE ST. EDWARD'S SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $279 NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CHARITY CARNIVAL!! each way on discounted scheduled CLEAN HOME, 3-5 BEDROOMS, 2 CALL 1-&0Q-343-8373. 
WANTED: TUBA PLAYER and'or OJ 

Sunday, April 23-Noon to 11:00 pm airlines to Europe from Chicago. Catl BATHS 89-90 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL
TYPING AVAILABLE Apply at Stud. Actlvltlas Office 
287-4082 by Mon. Apr. 24 Great food and lots of games! (800) 325-2222. 
CHUCK GLORE AT 232-1n6. EYE CONTACT BRAND NAME 
LISTEN TO LIVE MUSIC! DEAR COWIE-Happy 21st Birthday! I Rooms for rent, $12<»no; ALSO 2 LENSES START AT 19.95 EA. 1-800­
love you very, very much. MOOOOOO! Bedroom home for rent on NO Ave 255-2020.
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for MODEL OAS will ba having a panel PLAY GREAT GAMES! 
WIN LOTS OF PRIZES! Love, KUJO
CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash discussion on Its recent trip to Wash­
272-8306 EAT, EAT, EAT!

or Credit available' PANDORA'S BOOK Ington, D.C. Come maetthe team and
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ITS 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. the next Modal OAS president In the
APT. 2 PEOPLE GOOD 'NEIGHBOR-COMING ...... ANTOSTAL'89 FINAL 
ALL AT THE ST. ED'S CHARITY HOOD 288-0955-289-2331 . SIGN UPS TUESDAY APRIL 18
Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. CSC's Coffee House from 7:30 to 9pm, 
233-2342 Tuesday, April 18. CARNIVAL! 
6-8P.M. S.U.B. GOLF TOURNEY, AIF BAND, 
APRIL 23-NOON TO 11:00 PM MATTRESS RACE, TIRE ROLLING, IM­
TYPING MARY ELIZABETH POHS 
PICKUP & DELIVERY To my favorite parrot-headette Con­AT STEPAN CENTER Happy Birthday 
PERSONATIONS, CHARIOTS, PILLOW 
277-7406 WANTED gratulations on graduation-Can't wait to to CHUG MASTER : Ryan Collins
FIGHTS, TUG OF WAR SLAM DUNK, have you back where you belong-inOBSTACLE COURSE, KISSER, CKALK COME TO THE ST ED'S CARNIVAL
Colorado! Love you Bud in Fort Fun, Beth ..............................................
ACT IN TV COMMERCIALS. NO EXPE­DRAWING
RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a Ellen p.s. Parrot heads forever! Ryan Collins is turing 19 today He will computer. Catl Sue's Secretariat Ser­drink a bottle of champagne by himseff 
RIENCE. ALL AGES. CHILDREN, DON'T FEEL LEFT OUTII!I ON APRIL 23 AT STEPAN 
TEENS, YOUNG ADULTS, FAMILIES, NOON TO 11 :00 PM 
vice anytime at 2~063. SR. FORMAL BID FOR SALE. CALL in 10 minutes for you
ETC. HIGH PAY TV ADVERTISING. YOU'LL HAVE A GREAT TIME! 
BRIDGET AT 284-5130.

CALL FOR CASTING INFORMATION. I need a ride to IU tor Little 500 weekend.
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL RACHEL--enjoyed flirting with you al
CHARM STUDIOS, (313) 542-8400 EXT. Can leave anytime, will pay for gas. BEST OF ALL, IT'S FOR 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. "LF5" TO THE SENIOR-TO-BE GIRLS Friday's SYR--BORN DANCER
2283. Please call Kathleen at # 2666. CHARITY!! 
WHO PICKED RM 434 LEMANS!!"If4" HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS We are selling the blue carpet and the To our Knights in the shining green M.G. 
GOVERNMENT JOBS! VOCATION COUNSELING for the ONE­couch sections in our room. Please come Thanks for helping us get to the dunes I !II
NOW HIRING THIS AREA! $10,213 TO MARK FLAJOLE: Happy Birthday to a
Come to the St. Ed's Charity
YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and to see them and we will offer good prices. The Damsels in distress
$75,473. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! Carnival, April 23! guy with a nice ! From your
other ministry opportunities. Contact: FR. Carry on the tradition--the room wouldn't
CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 You'll get the opportunity to dunk people bowling
JOHN CONLEY, CSC BOX 541 NOTRE be the same without them!! MAUAA. my roomie-it's your birthday I
EXT F-2382H. you know, eat food, listen to buttock­
DAME 239-6385 think you should get tired,hungry and
Happy Birthday Marian A! Try dating NEED ROOMMATE FOR SUMMER. EARTH ANGEL, guys your age this year. Love, the crew horny'kicking music, play lots of GAMES OF 
SKILL, and help raise 

APPLICATION FORMS FOR ISO Will you be mine? -love, Lyss
4418 OR 847 PE. SLOAN. in FariQy.
oodles of money for charity! 
BOARD MEMBERS ARE AVAILABLE Come out and effervesce!
AT THE ISO OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR 
HELP! Aide needed to Cleveland on 4'27 FRESHMAN LAFORTUNE!!!!! TOMMY TUTONE: GEOAGIE,future psuedo-roomie,ij's
or 4'28. Will help with expenses. Call Kara FRESHMAN Guess what? I changed my number. your birthday,too! I hope you get lots of
at 272-2363. Sincere condolences to the parents of FRESHMAN 
Pray to St. Jude Love, Jenny stuff!
Class Government Applications at 2nd -love, LyssRICK PURCELL-We couldn't love a Floor LaFortune DUE WEDNESDAY!!
child like that. 
ORANGE BLOSSOM SPECIAL BOB Is 21!! 

AIDES AGAIN Dear Prankqueen:
BOB Is 211!
LOST/FOUND I I.___F_O_R_SA_LE---...J PURCELL &
RICK KELLYANNE 
6:15 Lyons. All girls invited. Crown yourself the queen of clowns Or
KEELEY Congratulations on your en­"PASSPORT" RADAR DETECTOR Mr. Groth·, if you can read this now, you're stand way back apart But never give your gagement. Wishing you love, happi­
Lost: AEEG'S on the ISLAND GOLD RATED # 1 tN WORLD No matter what you look like, better than we thought you'd be this mor­love my friend ... up to a foolish heart. 
ness & sterlllty.

WATCH No matter what you do
ALL ACCESSORIES INCL. PAID OVER ning. Happy 211!! Carnival King 
Please return, Engagement giH wl great GOD LOVES YOU
$400 X3201 $300 &0 CUT THE ROSE BEFORE IT GROWS
sentimental value. CALL Francis: x1436. He really loves you, SO CAL CLUB MEMBERS BIG REWARD $$$$$. GOD LOVES YOU!!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY GEORGIE
10 speed bike for sale good condition BAGGAGE TRUCK RESERVATIONS $40 or best offer call 283·3582 SMC FRESHMAN THIS IS YOUR CALL JENNIFER 3496 
BROPHY FOUND: Lady's ring near Grotto. Call ......................................-.......................... IT found a way!
················-····· LAST CHANCE TO PICK UP YOUR
Jan 234-8548 evening to Identify. ZANE SMITH Do you know what to lntersact
FLY HOME TO CT-1 way after 5'1 2 b-b BOXERS FROM FRESHMAN FORMAL. before 4'29-Kevin Q 271·9311 THE SWEENEY SISTERS WILL RIDE
PETE SMITH at tha NORMAL?
YOU CAN PICK THEM UP IN MCCAND­
LOST: GOLD ROPE NECKLACE ON TOM GLAVINE ITS NEVER A FANTASY!
AGAIN DESPITE THE HINDRANCE OF LESS AM.109 ON MONDAY AND
FRI. 417. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL JOHN SMOLTZ LOVE VA TONS
LIZ' SORE ANKLE! THE SHOW MUST X1326. FOR SALE: 1988 TREK Elance 33CYI2 DEREK LILLIQUIST NAN
TUESDAY FROM 7-9. IF YOU DO NOT 
PICK THEM UP ON THESE DAYS THEY GO ON, SO CALL PAT DANAHY OR speed bike. Many aces. Like new $250 National League opponents hate to JOHN HOWARTH, TO CATCH A
WILL BE SOLD TO OTHER PERSPEC­
LOST SUNDAY 4116: BROWN LEAT­call 282-1 032 say It, but they have to admit GLIMPSE OF THESE HOT BABES. 
TIVE CUSTOMERS. THIS IS YOUR
HER CASE WI READING GLASSES, THE BRAVES ARE BACK! HAPPY BIRTHDAY
LAST CHANCE! SO PICK THEM UP! You doni have to live In Aanner Hall
EITHER AT STEPAN CTA., STEPAN PEGGY DONNELLY COURTS OR SOUTH DINING HALL. I 
SMC FRESHMAN LOOK FOR THE to worship PHIL KRAKER! Join the Love, CANNOT READ ANYMORE I HELP!!! Max, Chris, and the gang
TICKETS fan club and pay homage to the God
FRESH. FORMAL PICTURES IN THEPLEASE CALL CHRIS AT X4079 IF 
of Rubber Cement! FOUND. 
GAMEROOM!I 

'· • WANTED-I grad tix, will pay$$ Call ...he won't eat it How would you like a dream date with TO: MARK (A.K.A. "GOOD FAIRY") # 3183-•• he hates everything... SANDERSDEAD HORSE 
tall, blond, gorgeous babe? We're ···································· 10-12:30 talking about 5'1 0 business majorette 
Live A&A Wed 19 at Bridget's a 
LIFE IS ELSEWHERE MURPHY'S YOU DROPPED A BOMB ON MEFOR RENT ONE-WAY TICKET (ON) AIR POR-WED & THUAS with one hot bod, so call (MUTHAF ~· A)
Rock wl the HORSE TUGAL NY-LISBON, LISBON-ROME. 
HAVE A HAPPY, HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 

LOVE, JANE Anyone headed to the Milwaukee area 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. PHIL RYAN, COLUMBA HALL, 239-MARY MAHONEY and get a piece of 
287-6389, 683-8889. 6284. BE A OJ FOR THEODORE'S the action! 
this weekend (421-4'23) that can take a

Play with records MARION STREET "FRAT HOUSE" FOR Get chicks LIFE IS ELSEWHERE
rider? Will share the usual. Chris # 2923 PARROT HEADS FOREVER PARROT HEADS FOREVER
RENT 9person oc­Play with a really neat stereo 
Thank you St.Jude Tom 

cupancy,2baths,bsktbllcrt pool tbl,3rd Earn BIG bucks this Wad & Thur at Murphy's floor bar&party room 3 car garage,fire PERSONALS PICK UP AN APPUCATtON AT STUD. (formerly Chip's) 
ld. need ride to Miami of Ohio, weekend of
place,washer&dryr must see this ACTtVITtES OFFICE home!call 289-1233 hlag Due Mon. Apr. 24 New and Old Acoustic Rock
421 Bill# 1837 
.. 

page 8 
Vollleyball club ends best season ever 
The Men's Volleyball Club ended its most successful season ever in the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball As­sociation tournamment last weekend with a second place finish. The Irish ended the season with a 27-12 record, which is by far their best-ever, given the strength of their schedule. 
Greg 
t!"!l

Scheckenbach '~ 
Club Corner 
~­


In the tournament, Notre Dame compiled a 4-2 record against other Midwestern clubs. During the pool play sec­tion of the tournament, the Irish lost a close match to Northwestern before beating a talented Bowling Green squad. The victories in pool play pitted Notre Dame against Indiana in the quarterfinals. 
Against the Hoosiers, the Irish were flawless wir.mingl5-8, 15-11. Senior captain Mike Shimota was outstanding, dishing up numerous assists to Irish hitters. In this match, the back row of Notre Dame could do no wrong in their passing, giving up few points to the opposition. 
The semifinals against Wisconsin were not as easy for the Irish. Losing the first game 9-15, Notre Dame was up against the wall and was forced to win the next two games if they were to stay alive in the tournament. As they have all year, the Irish came back and won the following games 15-9, 15-13. Junior Andrew Sullivan led Notre Dame with 17 kills while grad student Pat Burke contributed 13. Burke was also the leader in digs, tallying 12. Sophomore jumping jack Tom Martin snuffed the Badgers with six solo blocks. 
In the finals, Notre Dame fell apart against Michigan State losing 12-15, 3-15. The loss was most difficult because it eliminated Notre Dame from competing in the Club Na­tionals. Only the champion advances to the Nationals, while the Irish grabbed the runner-up trophy. On a brighter note, Shimota won the Commisioners Award for his spirit throughout the tournament. 
Although the season ended with disappointment, no one is really hanging their heads. With the success of the 88-89 season, the seeds were planted toward making the men's volleyball program competitive, and more importantly var­sit . 
Kristiansen breezes 
Associated Pres~1 
BOSTON--Ingrid Kristian­sen not only beat Joan Benoit Samuelson in Monday's Boston Marathon, she sent her into temporary retirement. 
"I'm going to take an in­definite rest and let Mother Na­ture do the healing," Samuel­son said after finishing ninth. "It could be one year or five years." 
The 31-year-old Samuelson said she ''was duly humbled out there." But she said her bril­liant career was not over. 
"I think a lot of people were expecting me to say I was going to retire, but I won't be," Samuelson said, choking back tears. "This is not the end of Joan Samuelson's career. I have some very good races in me." 
Ozzie back with Cards 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS--Erase any doubts about Ozzie Smith com­ing back. The St. Louis Car­dinals shortstop did. 
Smith, who missed the Car­dinals' first seven games this season because of a rib-cage in­jury, debuted with a flair in two weekend games against the New York Mets. 
He had five hits in eight at­bats as the Cards won both Sat­urday and Sunday, and had a RBI double in the eighth inning of Monday night's game to spark a three run rally. 
Smith singled twice in St. Louis' victory Saturday, his second hit setting up the win­ning run in the lOth inning. On Sunday, after the Cardinals trailed 2-0, his three singles ig­nited another eomeback. 
It wasn't until shortly before Saturday's nationally televised game that team physician Stan London gave Smith permission to play. 
"Actually, it was about five minutes before the game," Smith said. "I told Dr. London that I'd done all the things that he'd asked me to do--throw on the run, turn the double play and all those things and I didn't feel any pain." 
Still, Manager Whitey Her­zog had reservations about Smith being ready. 
"The doctor said he was all right, but you always worry," Herzog said. "(But) the first play he made he landed on his side. If he didn't get hurt, then he's not going to get hurt." 
Smith said he did nothing ex­traordinary in his rehabilita­tion. 
"I've been riding a (stationary) bike, which is the only thing that I could have done," he said. 
First baseman Pedro Guer­rero said Smith's return, which sent fill-in Jose Oquendo back to second base, boosted St. Louis' mood. 
"It's a lot different for us with Ozzie at shortsop and Oquendo at second base," Guerrero said. "It seemed like we went out there to win the game. We battled to extra in­nings, and we played great defense." 
The Observer Tuesday, April 18, 1989 
Boston Marathon concludes 
Mekonnen, Kristiansen victorious in 93rd annual race 
Associated Press 
BOSTON--Though it couldn't make up for missing the Olym­pics, Abebe Mekonnen ran like a gold medalist and became a champion Monday at the 93rd Boston Marathon. 
Ingrid Kristiansen, mean­time, beat Joan Benoit Samuleson for the first time ever in winning her second Bos­ton Marathon. 
Mekonnen broke away from Juma Ikangaa with about 11-2 miles left in the 26-mile, 385­yard test from the town green in Hopkinton to the Back Bay in Boston, to win in two hours, nine minutes, six seconds--the seventh-fastest clocking in the race's history. 
The 25-year-old Ethiopian missed the 1988 Olympic marathon because his country joined North Korea's boycott of the Seoul Games. And though he said he was happy he won, Monday, he added: "I don't consider it my Olympic race." 
This was the first time since 1963 that the poor African country of Ethiopia had sent a delegation to the Boston Marat­hon. 
This year's second-and third-place finishers were the same as last year's--Ikangaa in 
2: 09:56 and John Treacy of Ireland in 2:10:24. 
Tennis 
continued from page 12 
year. With David DiLucia and Walter Dolhare coming back, we will be strong at the top, and very experienced. The new ad­ditions will give us a very deep team next year. 
"These freshmen aren't going to simply walk in here and take over, though. The people we have coming back are very good tennis players, and the freshmen are going to have to beat these veterans out in order to play." 
The other student-athletes to commit to Notre Dame are Ronnie Rosas from El Paso, Texas, Colorado State High School champ Andy Zurcher, and Chris Wojtalik, who is ranked third in the mid-state region which includes Pennsyl­

Kenya's Ibrahim Hussein, last year's Boston champion and the first African to win the race, wound up fourth in 
2: 12: 41, followed by John Campbell, 40, of New Zealand, in 2:14:19. Campbell's time smashed the Boston course record for Masters of 2 : 17 :53, set last year by Ryszard Marczak of Poland. 
Meanwhile, Kristiansen's bid to become the first sub-2: 20 'flO­men's marathoner evaporated in the heat and humidity. 
She led every step of the wo­men's race and was not seriously challenged after the early stages, winning in 2:24:33, the third-fastest for a woman over the course. 
If she was unable to crack 
2:20 or even break her world­best of 2:21:06, she had no dif­ficulty in beating the gallant, injury-plagued Samuelson. 
Samuelson, the 1984 Olympic champion and course record­holder at 2:22:43, struggled in ninth in 2: 37: 51. 
The confident Kristiansen said she was not concerned about Sameulson, who has been beset by hip, knee and back in­juries over the past four years and also took time off from run­ning to give birth to a daughter in October 1987. 
This was the third meeting between Kristiansen and Samuelson, the two fastest wo­men's marathoners in history. Samuelson had won the two previous races--at the 1984 Los Angeles Games, where Kris­tiansen was fourth, and at Chicago in 1985, when Samuel­son set the American record of 
2:21:21 and her Norwegian rival was second. 
"She didn't affect my race," Kristiansen said. "I was in bet­ter shape than her." 
It was Kristiansen's 12th vic­tory in 20 marathons and her second at Boston. She won her first Boston title in 1986 in 2:24:55. 
Marguerite Buist of New Zealand finished second among the women in 2:29: 04 and Kim Jones of Spokane, Wash., the fifth-place finisher in last year's U.S. olympic Trials, was third in 2:29:34. 
"He is a good runner, but he has no good finish," Mekonnen said of lkangaa. 
"This a great victory, com­ing after the two in Rotterdam and Milan," he added. "It helped a lot during the race. It gave me a good impression. That's why I won today." 
Mekonnen called the un­
dulating  Boston  course  diffi­ 
cult.  
"Too  many  uphills  and  

downhills," he said. 

vania, New Jersey, and Dela-miss (graduating senior) Brian ware. Kalbas next year," says Bayliss. "But it appears that "You don't replace charac-these players will help us out 
ter, and for that reason we'll quite a bit next year." 
OONGIRATllJILAT~ONS BllJGHI 
We won't let you go to Stamford f 
Love, Dad, Betty & Molly 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents The Power and the Glory by Dennis Cannan and Pierre Bost Adapted from the novel by Graham Greene 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Setting and Lighting designed by Willard Neuert Costumes designed by Richard E. Donnelly 
Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April19-8:10pm Thursday, April20-8:10pm Friday, April21-8:10pm Saturday, April 22-8:10pm Sunday, April 23-3:10pm 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 
•Students I Senior Citizens $4 *(Wed., Thurs., Sun. only) 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office Weekdays, 12:15pm to 6pm 
MasterCard !Visa orders call 239-5957 

Tuesday, April 18, 1989 The Observer page 9 
Cotto hits two homers, Mariners down Athletics 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE--Henry Cotto hit his first two home runs of the season and rookie Erik Hanson held Oakland to four hits through eight innings, leading the Seattle Mariners to a 7-2 victory over the Athletics on Monday night. 
Cotto's two-run homer put Seattle ahead 2-1 in the Mariners' four-run fourth inning two-run and he added a solo shot in the seventh. It was the first multiple-homer game of his career. 
Hanson, 2-1, gave up a run in the first inning and then checked the A's until Tony Phillips homered in the sixth. The 6-foot-6 right-hander yielded a leadoff double to Luis Polonia, who was sacrificed to third and scored on Dave Henderson's sacrifice fly. 
Cardinals 4, Pirates 2 
ST. LOUIS--Ozzie Smith's run­scoring double sparked a three-run eighth inning, leading the St. Louis Cardinals past the injury-plagued Pit­tsburgh Pirates 4-2 Monday night. 
The Cardinals hit four doubles off reliever Brian Fisher, 0-1, to break a 1-1 tie in the eighth. 
Pinch-hitter John Morris led off with a double and advanced to third on a sacrifice. Smith, who is 7-for-12 since coming off the disabled list on Satur­day, doubled down the right-field line to break the tie. Terry Pendleton and Pedro Guerrero then followed with RBI doubles. 
Scott Terry, 1-1, held the Pirates to six hits over eight innings, striking out four and walking none. 
Expos 2, Cubs 1 
MONTREAL--Andres Galarraga hit a two-run homer in the sixth inning to give the Montreal Expos a 2-1 victory over the Cubs. 
Kevin Gross, 2-1, pitched 6 2-3 ~n-

Put that milk down, hick! 
HAPPY 21st 
SEANSTER!l 
From: Gooch, 0.8., O.D., Dan, Abey, Gina, Dee, Eby, Gilbs, Phil, Jim, Shoehorn &Big Ed 
SENIORS 

WONDERING WHAT TO DO AFTER GRADUATION? THINKING ABOUT TAKING A YEAR OFF BEFORE LAW SCHOOL? OR MEDICAL SCHOOL? 
A CHICAGO LAW FIRM IS LOOKING FOR PEOPLE WITH AN INTEREST IN LAW OR WITH AN INTEREST IN THE MEDICAL FIELD. 
IF THIS SOUNDS INTERESTING TO YOU PLEASE SIGN OP AT THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT 
CENTER  OR  AT  COUNSELING  AND  CAREER  
DEVELOPMENT CENTER AT ST. MARY'S.  WE WILL  
BE  CONDUCTING  INTERVIEWS  AT  ST.  MARY'S  

AND NOTRE DAME MONDAY APRIL 24TH. 
Terrence M. Johnson· 
For more information 
The Monadnock Bldg
please write or call: 
53 W. Jackson Blvd 
Chicago, IL 60604 
(312) 922-4022 
nings and allowed nine hits for the vic­tory. Tim Burke got the last three outs for his second save. 
Tom Foley singled with one out in the sixth off Greg Maddux, 0-2, and Galarraga hit a homer to give the Ex­pos a 2-0 lead. 
The Cubs used three singles to chase Gross and move within 2-1 in the seventh. Joe Girardi singled with one out and moved to second on Jerome Walton's two-out single before scoring on Mitch Webster's single. 

Ozzle Smith 
Mets 5, Phillies 2 

NEW YORK--Darryl Strawberry, Kevin McReynolds and Keith Hernan­dez hit consecutive home runs in the third inning Monday night, leading the Mets over the Philadelphia Phillies 5­2. 
Strawberry homered with one out in the third. McReynolds hit his homer on Don Carman's, 1-1, next pitch and Hernandez followed two pitches later with his home run. 
This was the first time in Mets' his­tory that they hit three consecutive home runs at Shea Stadium. The Mets had done it four times on the road and once in New York at the Polo Grounds. 
Sid Fernandez, 1-0, won his first start of the season. He gave up two runs on five hits in 5 2-3 innings. 
Red Sox 6, Orioles 4 
BOSTON--Mike Greenwell hit a two­run homer as the Boston Red Sox rallied for five runs in the eighth in­ning Monday to beat the Baltimore Orioles 6-4. 
The Orioles scored two runs in the ninth, but fell short in their bid to win consecutive games on the road for the first time since August 1987. 
Ellis Burks led off the Boston eighth with a triple off Brian Holton, 1-2, who replaced starter Jose Bautista at the start of the seventh. Greenwell then hit his fourth homer of the season, a 420-foot blast into the bleachers in right center. 
Yankees 7, Blue Jays 2 
TORONTO--Andy Hawkins pitched 
a five-hitter for his first American 
League victory and Roberto Kelly 
drove in four runs, three with a ninth­
inning triple, as the New York 
Yankees beat the Toronto Blue Jays 
7-2 Monday night. 

Hawkins, 1-2, walked three and 
struck out three. 

New York broke a 2-2 tie with an 
unearned run in the seventh inning. 
With two out, Alvaro Espinoza worked 
Toronto starter Mike Flanagan, 0-1, 
for a walk. Kelly singled and, after 
Duane Ward relieved, the runners ad­
vanced on Ernie Whitt's passed ball. 
Angels 3, White Sox 0 
CHICAGO--Devon White doubled home a run in the first inning and started a two-run ninth with his second double as the California Angels defeated the Chicago White Sox 3-0 Monday night. 
Brian Downing opened the game with a single to deep short, continued to second on Ozzie Guillen's throwing error and scored on White's one-out double. 
Kirk McCaskill, 3-0, allowed all the Chicago hits in 7 1-3 innings, walking none and striking out one. Bryan Har­vey pitched out of an eighth-inning jam and earned his second save. 
Brewers 8, Rangers 1 
ARLINGTON, Texas--Terry Fran­cona, who ruined Nolan Ryan's no-hit bid last week, went 3-for-4 Monday night and rookie Bill Spiers hit a grand slam for his first major-league homer as the Milwaukee Brewers' snapped the Texas Rangers' club record eight­game winning streak 8-1. 
Ryan, 1-1, threw 104 pitches and lasted just five innings. He yielded three runs and seven hits, walking six and striking out three. In his previous start, Ryan retired the first 20 Mil­waukee batters and went eight in­nings, allowing only the hit by Fran­cona and striking out 15. 
Giants 9, Padres 0 

SAN FRANCISCO--Scott Garrelts, a converted reliever, pitched a six­hitter and Will Clark and Candy Mal­donado each drove in three runs as the San Francisco Giants routed the slumping San Diego Padres 9-0 Mon­day night. 
Garrelts, 2-0, struck out five and walked three in his first shutout since Sept. 25, 1983, and his first complete game since May 31, 1986. 
Reds 3, Dodgers 2 

LOS ANGELES--Todd Benzinger's sacrifice fly scored Barry Larkin in the lOth inning to give the Cincinnati Reds a 3-2 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers Monday night. 
Reliever Jay Howell, 0-1, yielded a leadoff single to Larkin. Larkin was picked off first by Howell, but was safe when shortstop Alfredo Griffin dropped the ball running him back toward iirst base for an error. 

The Observer I AP Photo Jose Deleon (right) is congratulated after his 5-3 victory over the New York Mets on Sunday. The Cardinals, aided by the return of veteran Ozzie Smith, have won their last three games. Story on Smith on page 8. 
ATTENTION PREPROFESSIONAL SOCIETY MEMBERS: Mandatory Meeting Tuesday, April 18th 
6:30 pm 127 Nieuwland 
*Elections will be held (so if interested you must be there) *Last chance to buy scrubs at discounted prices! 
Book 
continued from page 12 
Dawn was more average than smooth in leading Dawn Is Smooth to a 21-16 win against Global Order Trotters. Dawn hit two of her five field goal at­tempts in the contest. 
NOTES-Only one women's game was played Monday af­ternoon. Absolut Knott crushed Five Funny Fickle Females Sitting Sipping Scotch 21-4. Ac­tion continues today on the courts at SMC. 
The Observer

page 10 
Gol1f teams compete at OSU 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team finished eighth in the 22­team Kepler Intercollegiate at Ohio State University's Scarlet Golf Course, while the women's team placed seventh out of nine in the Lady Buckeye Spring In­vitational this past weekend in Columbus, Ohio. 
The men posted scores of 306, 308 and 325 for a total of 939. Ohio State won on its home turf with an 892 total. Miami (Ohio) was second with a 915 score and Toledo finished third at 926. 
The Irish defeated Michigan, Purdue and Bowling Green in the tourney. 
Pat Mohan fired a three­round total of 229 to lead Notre Dame, tying him for sixth place among 117 golfers. Paul Nolta and Doug Giorgio recorded 233's, Mike O'Connell shot 248 and Pat Kusek carded a 259. 
Ohio State's Ted Tryba won medalist honors with his 227 total. 
At Ohio State's Gray Course, the Buckeyes made it a clean sweep by winning the women's event with a 54-hole total of 891. The Irish fired a 990. 
Roberta Bryer led Notre Dame's effort with a 242, fol­lowed by Pandora Fecko at 257, Heidi Hansan at 260, Kerrie Wagner at 261, Liz Poden at 266 and Kristin Kolesar at 283. 
The Buckeyes' Debbie Sil­
verberg recorded a 224 total for medalist honors. The men play again this weekend at the Spartan Invita­
•

Soviiet boxers to fight 1n u.s. 
Associated Pre·ss 
NEW YORK--Soviet boxers will fight professionally in the United States, possibly begin­ning late this year. 
It will happen under an agreement between Momen­tum Enterprises, Inc., of New York; the Soviet Boxing Federation and Sovintersport, which is the entity reponsible for the commercialization of Soviet sports. 
A soviet player is in the Na­tional Hockey League, there has been talk about Soviets playing the National Basket­ball Association, and an in­creasing number of Soviet ten­nis players have been appearing on both the men's and women's tours. There also are professional cyclists in the USSR. The Soviet Union is a leading amateur boxing power. 
"There is a confidentiality clause in the contract, but I can say it is for 10 years, worldwide, exclusive and a joint venture," Lou Falcigno, president of Momentum, said Monday at a news conference, also attended by Victor Galaev, director-general of Sovin-
SUMMER CAMP 

POSITIONS Counselors: 21 t• coed, sleepaway camp, Mass. Berkshires. WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, drama, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, judo, dance, . photography, computers, nature, wilderness, model rocketry, guitar, yearbook, woodworking, AN, typist, 
Write: Camp Emerson, 
5 Brassie Ad, 
Eastchester, NY 10707 


tional in East Lansing, Mich., while the women concluded their first season at the varsity level. 

tersport and officials of the So­viet Boxing Federation. 
A first group of six Soviet boxers will come here by Octo­ber, although two could arrive in June, according to Falcigno. They will train in the New York area under American trainers, although the group will be ac­companied by a Soviet trainer. 
"We hope to get a fight in this year or very early next year," Falcingo said, "but we might wait and have all six fight on the same card." 
or call914n79-9406 

.__________. t=.:==============:!J.. 
Tuesdays. A Great Day to meet Your Friends at ChiChi's 
Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW I 683-1959 
NEW Limited Quantity ONLY $18.0Mnonth 
Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST UTILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 
Tuesday, April 18, 1989 

NHL Playoff action: Penguins, Canadiens 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH--Rob Brown took Kevin Stevens' pass 
from behind the net and scored from the slot with 6: 34 
remaining as the Pittsburgh Penguins rallied to beat the 
Philadelphia Flyers 4-3 Monday night in the opener of the 
Patrick Division finals. 
The Penguins, outshot at one point 20-6 and trailing 3-1, 
got goals from Dan Quinn and John Cullen just 33 seconds 
apart in the second period. They then rode Tom Barrasso's 
clutch goaltending to score their fifth consecutive playoff 
victory and their ninth win in their last 10 games, counting 
the regular season. 
The Penguins, absent from the NHL playoffs for six 
straight years, swept their first-round series from the New 
York Rangers to advance to the second round for the first 
time in 10 years. Philadelphia beat Washington. 
Brown's goal, his third of the playoffs, came after Flyers 
goaltender Ron Hextall made four spectacular saves earlier 
in the period to keep the Penguins from blowing open the 
game, the first playoff meeting between the cross-state 
rivals in their 22 years of existence. 
The Flyers, keeping the puck in their attacking zone for 
most of the first 30 minutes, scored three special team goals. 
Canadiens 3, Bruins 2 

MONTREAL--The Montreal Canadiens, led by the spec­tacular goaltending of Patrick Roy and an opportunistic offense, beat the Boston Bruins 3-2 Monday night in the first game of the Adams Division final. 
The Canadiens, who lost a playoff series to Boston for the first time in 45 years last spring, managed just 15 shots at Andy Moog. But Russ Courtnall, Mike Keane and Claude Lemieux were able to beat the goalie. 
Roy, who did not lose at home all season, was sensational. He made his best save in the second period by kicking out Bobby Carpenter's wrist shot from the slot. In the third period, he foiled two shots by Ray Bourque with splendid saves to keep Montreal in control. 
After Boston got within a goal when Bob Sweeney scored with 4:03left, Roy remained sharp. He stopped Garry Gal­ley's 40-footer with 12 seconds to go and also made a save on Bourque just before the final buzzer. 
...........~....

lr.:::::::::::::~···· ~·~~:::::::::::::::: 
EXPERIENCE 
AIR FORCE NURSING. 
Experience-the opportunity for advanced education, specialization and flight nursing. Experience-the opportunity to develop management and leadership skills as an Air Force officer. Experience-excellent starting pay, complete medical and dental care and 30 days of vacation with pay each year. Plus, many other benefits unique to the Air Force life-style. And the opportunity to seNe your country. Experience-being part of a highly professional health care team. Find out what your experience can be. Call USAF NURSE RECRUITING 
317-848-5830 
COLLECT 



ATTENTION: Grad Students, Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

Offers 

* 
Pool, Clubhouse * locked intercom entrances 

* 
Washer & dryer ii1 each apartment • flexible leases ~ 


( al&o -furnished executive suites ) l.::.J call for details -277-3731 
!QUAL HOUSING 
~NrTY 

Tuesday, April 18, 1989 The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 

BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATIERSON 
BJRKE BREATHED 



B!LL \NATIERSON 


47 Construction piece 49 Rower 
51 "The Importance -":Oscar Wilde 
58 Limerick creator 59 Mend socks 60 Consumed 62 Spanish 
Surrealist 63 Sicilian resort 64 Pebble 65 Writer Ambler 66 Opposite of 
NNW 67 Scottish chief 
DOWN 
1 Accountant, for 
short 2 Tennis strokes 3 Soviet range 41nviolate 5 Dining delicacy 6 Confined 7 Sea for 
Odysseus 8 Ship's rear 9 Mark Hopkins 
was one 10 River in Ecuador 11 Leave out 
20 Loser to Dwight 


5 p.m. Snite Museum Gender Studies Reception, Snite Museum Courtroom. 
7 p.m. ND Communication & Theatre film "Une Femme Douce" (1969), 87 min., Annenburg Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. Student Government Intellectual Life Committee and Keenan Hall, "A Discussion of the Vatican's letter on Racism," Keenan-Stanford chapel. 
9 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre film, "The Shop on Main Street" 128 min., Annenburg Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
3:30 
p.m. ND Dept. of Management, Administrative Sciences lecture, "Power and Organizations," Hayes Healy auditorium 

3:30 
p.m. ND Dept. of Chemical Engineering lecture, "Block Copolymers at Interfaces: Micellization and Adsorption," 356 Fitzpatrick Hall; refreshments Room 181. 3:30p.m. ND Dept of AeriYMech Engineering lecture, "Bubble Deformation and Breakup at Finite Reynolds Number," Room 117 Cushing Hall. 


7:30 p.m. Saint Mary's diversity lecture, "Maintaining Quality and Achieving Diversity: The Challenge to Higher Education," Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall. 8 p.m. ND Dept. of American Studies 1989 Red Smith Lecture, Robert Maynard, Annenburg Auditorium. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Thin Steak Sandwich Shrimp Vegetable Stirfry Ham & Broccoli Rolls Cheese Enchiladas Pasta Bar Sliced Ham Baked Stuffed Turbot Deli Bar 
COMICS 
BLOOM COUNTY 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~ELP ME (1-1\C) GH (1-\\C) RIO Or (1-\IC.) ii-\£5E Ofl.RN l~IC) 1-\IC. (\-1\C.) \iiCOJPS ! 
BLOOM COUNTY 
ACROSS 

1 Embrace 6 Ballerina's­de chat 
9 Biblical patriarch 13 Kind of bear 14 Convene 15 Singer Janet 
Baker's title 16 Manila hemp 17 "A Loss of 
Roses" playwright 18-arms 
(aroused) 19 Author of "The Talisman" 

22 Football position 23 Square column 
OIJR OCEANS AR\:: Rlll.D 'flln\ GA.RSA.GL WE'/£ CR£AitD A\!.OLE IN ~£ OZONE ntr._ls rR~ING 11-1t. PLM~IT, NIJCLEAR W~SK IS Pll\t-IG UP 'ri\11100\ Al'l~ Sf>..FE WI>.~ 10 RIO Of IT 
24 Copied 27 Legal claim 30 Country shaped 
like a boot 34 Atlas unit 35 Delbert-, 
film director 36 Place tor bulldogging 37 "Reading-": 
Herbert Spencer 41 Lee's opposite 42 Natives of: Suffix 43 Muni or Grande 44 A Margaret Mead 
subject 45 Burden 46 England's Good 
Queen-· 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
21 Line of descent 24 Wrongly 25 Ristorante fare 26-Downs 28 Traveler's 
stopover 29 Locomotive 
operator: Abbr. 31 Worship 32 Vocabulary of a 
language 

51 Ye-tea shoppe 52 Dread 53 Island east of Java 54 Lake in Ireland 55 Memorabilia 56 Athenian portico 57 Sen. Gore's state 61 Barbara Bush, -Pierce 
33 Stringed toys 35 Minn. range 38 Recondite 39 Heat meas. 40"Answer­
no" 45 These have 
stops 46 Respiration 48 Aconcagua is 
here 50 "-ofrobins " 


Sports
page 12 Tuesday, April 18, 1989 
I­
I I 
Bookstore action continues 
By GREG GUFFEY says the team has just come Who Can Fly downed St. Ed's together. Stooges 21-14. The winners shot 
Assistant Sports Editor 
"I think our team is playing 21-of-36 from the floor, but the 
Murphy's Bar already had very well right now," Warren Stooges hit just 14-of-37. depth and experience coming said. "We're starting to get a The glory for War Pigs' into Bookstore Basketball feel for what each other can Revenge was sweet, although 
XVIII. Unselfish team play can and cannot do." short. The team defeated The be added to that list after Mon­In other games, Todd Lyght Dribbling Dingleberries 21-18 day's 21-4 romp over 4 Drib­shot an incredible 10-of-14 to last week, but the dream ended blers and a Shooter. lead It's All About Dissin' Cuz with a 21-7loss to Dr. Love and 
Murphy's used a balanced to a 21-11 win over Slo-Punch. the Passion Quartet Monday. scoring attack to advance into Ricky Watters, a member of The one victory was espe­third-round action. Steve last year's Adwork's cham­cially sweet because the War Belles and Andy Heck scored pions, added six baskets for the Pigs did not score a point in seven hoops each for the win­winners. Irish defensive last year's tourney, the ners. Kevin Warren added four lineman George Williams spring's only shutout victim. baskets, Aaron Robb two and rounds out the football trio for "We went down there with John Mundo one. Dissin' Cuz. . the attitude we would just score 
In last week's 21-8 victory "We didn't play real well in and come home," said Tim Sut­over Iggy Pop at the Buzzer, the beginning because some of ton, a member of War Pigs. "It Belles and Mundo led the way our players were sick," Wil­was beyond our expectations. with six hoops and Robb tossed liams said. "We got to playing The whole thing was really in five. better after awhile. If we're worth it." 
"There's no animosity about clicking on all five cylinders, We Could Beat Valpo could who scores," Warren said. we could be tough to beat." not even beat We're Not "For the most part, we have We Got Cut From Adworks Cheeseheads, falling by a 21-10 five very unselfish individ­showed why, losing 21-4 to Mike count. Kent Graham scored uals." and the Minstrel Cycles. The nine hoopes to pace Kent's Get­
Murphy's has yet to be tested winners hit 21-of-30 from the ting Married to a 21-7 romp 
The Observer I Paul Compton

in the first two rounds of the field, while the losers could over X. tourney. Both wins have been manage just 4-of-36. Bookstore Basketball XVIII continued its way to the final256 on Monday. by large margins, and Warren Rodan, Sky and 3 Other Guys see BOOK I page 9 Greg Guffey details Monday's action at left. 
Markezich breaks record, track team qualifies athletes 
the national meet last year. hurdles, junior Glen Watson winning with a qualifying time times went to junior Yan
By GREG SCHECKENBACH 
"Ron is running extremely won his second straight Stan­of 3:17.16. The 4x100-meter Searcy, who ran a 48.28 in the 
Sports Writer 
well," stated head coach Joe ford Invite with a time of 14.42 relay team was close to win­400 meters. This was a personal The men's outdoor track Piane. "His time speaks for it­
ning, but came up a few feet record for the Kokomo, In., na­
team had great performances self, it is amazing that anyone short with a time of 42.5 tive. Another third place finish in two parts of the country last could qualify for nationals with seconds, which still qualifies went to junior Xavier Victor, 
for the IC4A. who ran a 22.45 in the 200-meter ·weekend. The majority of the 33 seconds to spare." 
dash.

team traveled to California for On the sunnier side of the "The relay teams competed 
the Stanford Invitational while country, the Irish were nearly well for us at Stanford," said a "Overall, we faired pretty a lone runner traveled to Ten­as successful, qualifying seven pleased Piane. "They both had well," said Piane. "I was very 
athletes for the IC4A Outdoor their best times of the outdoor pleased with such a successful
nessee. Ron Markezich gave new Championship Meet later in the season." weekend this early in the out­meaning to the loneliness of the year. In the javelin throw, John door season." 
long distance runner in the Junior Tom O'Rouke Stewart placed third, while in Next weekend, the team will 10,000 meters. He qualified for qualified with a second place another field event, Jeff Smith again split up, going to the 
the National Meet by an out­finish in the 3000-meter also placed third in the long Kansas Relays and the Indiana standing 33 seconds, while also steeplechase with a personal jump. Last year, Smith won the Intercollegiate Meet. The running the fastest 10,000 in the record of 9:01.33. Mike Rogan, Stanford Invitational with a Kansas Relays is perhaps the 
last two years by anyone in the another junior, grabbed a third Ron Markezlch jump of 23-7. In the 800 meters, most prestigious regular college ranks. Markezich's place finish in the 1500 meters seconds. His time easily freshman Brian Peppard season meet of the year for time of 28:44 is the fastest in to qualify for the IC4A Cham­qualifies him for the IC4A finished third with a time of Notre Dame and it should 
Notre Dame history, and is also pionships. Championships. The mile relay 1:51.23. prove to be the most competi­better then the winning time in In the 110-meter high team also broke the tape first, The last of the qualifying tive. 
Men's tennis caotures MCC 
Irish enjoy perfect day to claim t3ayliss' first MCC title 
By KEN TYSIAC at second singles, Brian Kalbas State, whose legendary coach, Sports Writer at third, Ryan Wenger at Stan Drobac, will lead them fourth, Dave Reiter at fifth, into town to play the Irish on The Notre Dame men's ten­and Paul Odland at sixth. Saturday. Notre Dame lost a nis team dominated the Mid­Doubles championships were heartbreaking 5-4 decision to western Collegiate Conference won by the teams of DiLucia the Spartans last year, so it Championships this Sunday, and Wallace, Dolhare and should be an exciting matchup. walking away with the first Kalbas at second doubles, and Coach Bayliss also received place trophy. The Irish did not Wenger and Reiter at number some good news this past week lose a match in rolling to Coach three. regarding the future of his Bob Bayliss's first MCC title at The teams from Xavier and team. Five high school seniors Notre Dame. Evansville finished a distant signed letters of intent to attend 
Superfrosh David DiLucia second and third, respectively, school here at Notre Dame and once again led the way for the in the meet. Coach Bayliss was play tennis. Irish, beating Chris McMican obviously pleased with his Included in the impressive of the University of Detroit in team's success. corps of recruits are Prince the finals of the number one "We played very well," he High School All Americans singles flight, 6-2, 6-2. DiLucia said. "We lost only one set in Chuck Coleman from The also teamed with Mike Wallace the whole competition (at Baylor School in Chattanooga, to capture the first team's second doubles) and we came Tennessee, and Mark Schmidt, doubles title, beating Xavier's right back to win the tiebreaker who hails from Atlanta, Geor­tandem of John Zern and John in that match 6-0. gia. Coleman and Schmidt are Kronenberger, 6-3, 7-5. "Our school has made a big ranked 13th and 14th among 
Notre Dame did not lose a commitment to tennis," contin­college-bound high school match in the tournament. ued Bayliss. "The bottom line seniors, so Bayliss has himself Every Irish player and doubles is that we're very serious about a couple of promising recruits. 
•m ---team walked away with first our tennis, and when it got Of the new recruits, Bayliss 
The Observer I Trey Reymond 
place honors. close, we had more experi­says, "these players should 
Dave Dilucia and the men's tennis team enjoyed an undefeated MCC 
Individual championships ence." give us a solid base for next 
tournament effort. Coach Bob Bayliss picked up his first MCC Cham­
were won by DiLucia at num­The next opponent for pionship. ber one singles, Walter Dolhare Bayliss's squad is Michigan see TENNIS I page 8 




