


VOL. XXIII NO.4 THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1989 ' THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ·; 
Moldavian leaders .·, mollify minorities 
Associated Press force of social and the political system. 
MOSCOW -Leaders of Krummins said he listened to Moldavia tried to placate a live radio broadcast of the outraged minorities Wednesday Central Committee meeting in by considering a watered-down Riga, the Latvian capitaL version of legislation to make The clause is virtually identi­Moldavian the official language cal to one in the Soviet consti­in the ethnically diverse south­tution that has put an effective ern republic. ban on alternative parties for 
At the urging of President 70 years, Krummins said. 
Mikhail Gorbachev, reports Several small political parties said, the Moldavians were lean­have cropped in recent months, ing toward the compromise in most of them in Latvia and the 
an effort to stop strikes by eth­other two Baltic republics, nic Russians and others op­Lithuania and Estonia. posed to the pending language law. Moldavia's Communist Party 
Non-Moldavians were re­chief, Semen Grossu, suggested ported on strike at 200 busi­the language compromise to nesses and industries in the the legislature Wednesday after small republic next to Romania. speaking with Gorbachev on the The official news agency Tass telephone, Tass said. said rail workers in several ci­ties joined the walkout Grosso did not say whether 
APPhoto Wednesday. Gorbachev suggested the com­
Under the original proposal, promise although, but that is Moldavian would be the only of­widely believed to be the case, ficial language. The compro­Vasily Nestase of the pro­mise would make it the lan­Moldavian People's front said guage of officials and docu­by telephone from the repub­ments, but Russian would be lic's capital, Kishinev. the everyday tongue for contact Moldavia now has no lan­among ethnic groups. guage law. Russian tradition­
Associated Press ready been increased by the made on changing plans for fu­In the restive Baltic republics, ally has been the tongue forfact that we have given ture aid to that country. 
the Latvian Communist Party government affairs and isColombia $65 million" to help it "The fundamental issues of indicated willingness commonly used in commerce,
WASHINGTON -The drug fight the "total war" declared the strategy, Kennebunkport Wednesday to accept competing which upsets nativecontrol strategy President Bush by the drug traffickers there. did not change," one of the 
political parties, Moldavians.
will present next week will call However, the $65 million is sources said, noting that the fi­activist re­
ported. Gorbachev has repeat­for $250 million to $260 million coming out of a discretionary nal strategy had gone to the edly voiced opposition to multi­
in economic and military aid fund available for fiscal 1989, printer before the meeting took The compromise would cut a 
ple political parties. part of the bill that would have for the three principal cocaine which ends Sept. 30. The strat­place. The source declined to be 
producing countries egy covers fiscal 1990. Ianic Krummins, deputy edi­made Moldavian the language
named publically. 
tor .of Atmoda, the Latvian of communication among
Colombia, Peru and Bolivian -­Scowcroft had not intended People's Front newspaper, said
an administrative source said to add the $64 million onto Colombia has suffered nu­Russians, Ukrainians, Jews, Wednesday. next year's budget, said the merous bombings by drug the Central Committee ex­Bulgarians, and other ethnic 
pressed support for elimination groups in the republic. 
Earlier, sources had said the source, who spoke on condition traffickers since Colombian a clause in the republic's con­The initial law goes farther
aid figure could hit $300 mil­of anonymity. President Virgilio Barco im­
stitution that defines the
lion, and national! security ad­President Bush met with his posed emergency regulations 1 than the language laws in a 
Communist Party as the leading number of otherviser Brent Scowscroft indi­top lieutenants in the drug war and 1/2 weeks ago that allow cated Tuesday that the figure Tuesday at his vacation home for the immediate resumptionwould be even higher than that. in Kennebunkport, Maine, to of extraditions of alleged drug
When asked about the re­discuss the strategy, but trafficker to the ported $300 million figure for sources said Wednesday that States for trial. the Andean countries, the focus of the meeting was Last Friday, Bush announced Scowcroft said, "That figure, I Colombia, not the strategy, and think you can assume, has a!-that no specific decision were see DRUG I page 5. 
ND offers creative writing M.A. option 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Dame has several important Dame faculty in 1975. Senior Staff Reporter publications and that several Matthias, professor of other faculty are ·. active English, is a poet and critic 
The University's writers who could also whose book "Places.•Poems" Department of English will contribute," Buttigieg said in is forthcoming . this year offer a creative writing a press release. · form Aquila Press > ~nd option in its M.A. program "We agreed that while a Swallow Press. He joined the starting next fall. creative writing option is in­Notre Dame faculty in 1967. Joseph Buttigieg, creasingly the norm for O'Rourke. associate professor and chairman of English graduate programs, professor of English, .is a English, said that the it had great potential at novelist and critic whose proposal to establish a Notre Dame for making us most recent book, *Criminal 
creative writing program more prominent in a field Tendencies/' was published was conceived during a where we already excel," two years ago. · by> E<P. recent evaluation of the said Buttigieg. Dutton; Inc. He joil~ed the English department's The three faculty Notre Dame faculty in 1981. graduate program. members now teaching Percival Everett, 
Presently brochures are creative writing courses at associate professor of being printed and will be Notre Dame are Sonia English and former director sent out to various Gernes, John Matthias and of the creative writing pro~ universities, said William William O'Rourke. gram at the University···of O'Rourke, associate Gernes, associate Kentucky in Lexington, professor of English. professor of English, is a joined the Notr~ Dame O'Rourke serves as the novelist and poet whose faculty this Fall. Everettjs director of the creative most recent book, a the author of several works writing program. collection of poems entitled of fiction including "How.the ... 
"We noticed that each of "Women at Forty," was pub­WesfWas Won," a.coU~ction ·.·· the three faculty who are the lished last year by t}l!'l of short stories forthcoining 
.... ···::::.,: .......:·:.· .. :;.:.:·.: .. 
Saint Mary's student Gail Kelly studies her script for the play 
principal teachers of University of .Notre .IJ!ll'lle 
. . . . . ... creative writing at Notre Press. She joined the >N'()tre see ENGLISH/ page 4 F 
"Tartuffe." Auditions will continue tonight 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, August 31, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Notre Dame is not a · 
President Bush, who hasn't had any luck fishing on his summer vacation in Kennebunkport, Maine, jokingly asked a 

mail -oriented school 
newspaper Wednesday to stop running a "no-fish" logo chroni­cling his rod-and-reel failures. The Portland Press Herald's graphic consists of a circle with a line drawn through a·bluefish, similar to the "Ghostbusters" logo. Bush, whose hook has come up empty for 13 days in a row, said he planned to call the news­
aper's editor. "I think they should knock off that advertisement," :,e said during a presentation by the Chamber of ·Commerce for this seaside resort and neighboring Kennebunk. Press Herald Executive Editor John K. Murphy said that wasn't going to be enough to stop the graphic, which the paper plans to keep running as long as Bush's luck stays poor. 
Authorities Imposed a curfew Wednesday in Medellin and nine other cities in Columbia jn the heart of cocaine country to try to halt violence by drug barons stung by Colombia's crackdown on narcotics. Also Wednesday, the U.S. government ordered families of its embassy staff to leave Colombia, a spokesman said. The order apparently was given because of fears of attacks by drug traffickers. A shipment of weapons bound for Medellin was inter­cepted, and authorities said three more judges resigned in the city that reputedly supplies the United States with 80 percent of its co­caine. More than 100 judges have resigned since drug traffickers vowed to retaliate for a crackdown on drug trafficking. 
Leona Helmsley, the persnickety hotel queen quoted as saying "only the little people pay taxes," was convicted Wednesday of evading $1.2 million in income tax by charging per­sonal expenses to her business empire. The federal jury in New Yor~ acquitted Mrs: ~elmsley, 69,_of the most serious charge agamst her -conspirmg to extort payoffs from vendors. Pictured as a regal perfectionist in ads for Helmsley luxury hotels, Mrs. Helmsley was portrayed in court as an abusive, penny-pinching tyrant -part of a defense strategy of arguing she was the victim of spiteful ex-employees. 
An International conference on Cambodia failed to produce an agreement and suspended its work Wednesday until warring factions are ready for a compromise to end a generation of violence. "We need time so the spirit of reconciliation can over­come the spirit of confrontation, but for Cambodia the hour of peace will come," Roland Dumas, the French foreign mi~ister, told the conference just before adjourning the fmal session. Some delegates said the failure increased the liklihood of full-scale civil war when Vietnam withdraws its military forces Sept. 27 after nearly 11 years of occupation. Last-minute negotiations delayed a fi.nal statement by seven hours. It fell far short of the comprehen­SIVe settlement delegates from 19 nations hoped to achieve when the conference opened in late July. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
A divided Indiana Supreme Court. reversing an earlier appellate court decision, ruled Wednesday that a convicted robber should lose his parental rights. In a 3-2 decision, the court ruled against Aaron Danforth, a Madison County man who served five years in the state reformatory during the early 1980s on armed robbery and burglary convictions. Danforth was arrested in August 1980. After his arrest, his two children remained with their mother, Anna Danforth Fuller, until she was arrested on a burglary charge in May 1981, according to court records. In 1985, the welfare department filed a request to terminate the parental rights. The court agreed to that request after conducting a fact-finding hearing that showed that Danforth, who was re­leased from jail after serving five years, had once left the children in a getaway car while he committed a robbery and had threat­ened his ex-wife. The Court of Appeals later concluded that there was insufficient evidence to terminate Danforth's rights as a par­ent. But the state Supreme Court said there was ample evidence of Danforth's criminal behavior to justify terminating his rights as a parent. 
The only sure way to halt the import of drugs in the United States is for Americans to drug habits, Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., said Wednesday. Lugar told Republicans at a fund raiser that it's futile to attempt to eradicate the coca the raw ma­terial of cocaine, because producers would simply 'grow it else­where. "The only way to stop the drug trade is by destroying its market. If the demand remains strong the supply will continue " he said. Lugar just returned from a tour of several Latin American countries. The tour included visits to Peru, where the majority of t.he world's coca is grown, and Colombia, where most of the drug is processed and then exported to the United States. 
WEATHER 
Cloudy 
Mostly cloudy today, with a 30 percent chance of showers. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer JMt advertising. jMt
C Call 239-6900 C 
My sister received an impressive amount of mail this summer. 
A high school senior with enviable SAT scores, she has found herself on the mailing list of any· college anyone has ever heard of and then some. I was thinking of buying her a wheelbarrow to use to bring it in the house each morning. 
Personally, I no longer have to worry about receiving junk mail from every college I've never heard of. In fact, I don't have to worry about receiving mail from any colleges anymore; not even the one I attend. 
It struck me as amusing that the admissions committee of the University of Woolamaloo, lo­cated in the back end of nowhere would take the time and trouble to put together a large, elabo­rate collection of brochures intended to convince her to forego Georgetown in favor of a 'broad, liberal arts education' at their illustrious cam­pus. Knowing in their hearts that she will prob­ably never give them the time of day, they still pay exorbitant amounts in postage to ensure that their mailings will arrive quickly at our home in England. They take all this trouble for. her, while expecting nothing in return. 
I also found this disturbing. We had great fun at the expense of some of these distinguished universities, but at the same time as I watched my sister sort through mountains of mail I was forced to notice that while she was cold-shoul­dering these places who were obviously making some effort for her, I was paying Notre Dame something in the neighborhood of $15,000 a year to send me absolutely nothing. 
This is not to imply that they don't try. Quite the opposite, in fact. If failed attempts counted for anything, I'd probably be singing Notre Dame's praises from the rooftops. However, mail that goes to Yorkshire before it works its way down to my home outside of London be­cause Notre Dame's various departments have omitted vital parts of my address is never of much use to me. 
The blame for this particular problem was originally laid at the doorstep of the Registrar's computer, which, it seemed, was unable to fit my undeniably foreign address into its American format. I was truly puzzled. Computers are considered the wave of the future. Some com­puters can think faster than I can. With all that ~omputers undoubtedly have going for them, it IS utterly beyond my comprehension that it is so difficult for them to enter something as simple as my mailing address into one, regardless of what country I happen to live in. 
Despite my irritation, I made several very po­lite attempts to explain my predicament at the appropriate offices. The employees at these same offices listened equally politely and made a note of my correct address, promising to do better in the future. 
After the third or fourth such trip the University actually managed to come up with 

'r------------------------------------------------------------~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2_-4000) is published Monday through Fridey except dunng exem and vacation penods. The Observer is published by students of the Umverstty of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions mey be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Assocrated Press. All reproduction rights are reseiVed. 

'Pardon me if I sound egotistical, but I feel I'm worth the extra twenty cents.' 
Alison Cocks 

PloduGIIon ............ 
some sort of address for me that worked. The 
mail began to travel non-stop to my doorstep 
without being routed through Yorkshire. 
However, it was hardly clear sailing from there. I did not allow for a common American paranoia: the idea that if one is sending some­thing overseas, it is being mailed into oblivion. The concept of airmail is entirely foreign to many people at this university. Why bother worrying about how it's traveling if it's going to the outer edges of the earth anyway? Free en­terprise is an integral part of the American Dream, yet people cannot seem to understand that the \,Jnited States Postal Service is going to charge more to send a letter if it has to cross an ocean to reach its destination. Not only that, but they fail to understand that if they don't send it airmail, it will take two months to reach me. For an extra 20 cents or so, my Fall semester grades can arrive before Spring Break. 
Pardon me if I sound egotistical, but I feel I'm worth the extra twenty cents. I pay the same tuition as all the other students. Is there some stipulation somewhere that this five-figure sum does not entitle international students to receive timely communication from Notre Dame? 
~ ~onder how Notre Dame would like it if my tmtion were sent by surface mail. Or via Saint Mary's? Perhaps it is in my best interests to deliver self -addressed stamped envelopes to each department. If that's what it takes, I'm prepared to do it, rather than deal with the glares from various employees when I dare to suggest that they do not send their correspon­dence. to me by airn;tail. If they honestly believe that's what they' do, then they are in desperate need of re-education. But somehow I don't feel that's my responsibility. 
I wasn't entirely honest in my earlier assertion that I never receive anything from the University. There is one particular department that is head and shoulders above the others: the Office of Student Accounts. It is a relief to know that at least one department at this University has my interests as a student at heart. I commend them for making the effort to ensure that their material reaches me at the correct address and on time. I can only hope that all other offices will follow their undoubt­edly altruistic example. 
Dlllllgn Editor ............... Tricia Grohman Design Aaaltant ............... Alison Cocks 'Typeaetlela......................... Dan Towers N1wa Edlor ........................... Greg Lucas SpQrta Copy Editor... Molly Mahoney VIewpoint Copy Editor. Dave Bruner Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Typists ....................................Janet Herold .................................................... Lisa Bourdon ................................................Erin Shirtzinger NO Day Editor ....................Janet Herold Pholognlpta......................... Eric Bailey Irish Extra EdHor........ Theresa Kelly Irish Extre Layout ....... Joe Zadrozny 



Thursday, August31, 1989 The Observer 
Freshman Kevin Kim ex-cue-zed himself from his homework yesterday to play pool in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. 
SMC diversifies with 2 new administrators 
Special to The Observer 
As part of its campus diversification program, Saint Mary's College has appointed two administrators to recruit minority students. 
Patricia Washington has been named director of minority, in­ternational and non-traditional -age student life. She comes to the College from Wichita State University, where she served as 
chair  of the  Department  of  
Minority Studies.  
Washington  has  taught  at  

ncounter 
A WEEKEND 

RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
WHEN: September 15-17,1989 
CONTACT: 103 Hesburgh Library Phone 239-7800 
SIGN UP Wed, Aug. 30 ­DEADLINE: Tues. Sept. 5 
COST: $20.00 

OFFICE OF 
(0MPUSMINISTRY 
the University of Wisconsin and the University of Pittsburgh. She received her doctorate and master's degree in social work from Pittsburgh, her master's degree in counseling from the University of Northern Iowa, and her bachelor's degree from Northeastern Illinois University. 
A frequent speaker on minority issues, she is also a gerontology researcher. 
At Saint Mary's, Washington will develop social and academic programs for students from minority and international backgrounds and older students. She will also coordinate programs to pro­mote the understanding and appreciation of cultural di­versity in the community. 
Joy Vann, a former admis­sions counselor at Wichita State, joins the College as an assistant director of admissions. She will coordinate minority recruitment programs. Vann holds a bachelor's degree from Wichita State. 
page 3 

New SMC faculty members announced 
Special to The Observer 
New faculty members and administrators for the 1989-90 academic year at Saint Mary's College were announced re­cently. New faculty, listed by departments, are: 
Biology: Clarence Dineen, professor emeritus, who re­turns to the College to teach a human anatomy laboratory; and Diane Lovin, lab instructor. 
Business Administration and Economics: Lauren Strach, in­structor of management; Michael N. Bruno, lecturer in international finance; and Bartholomew J. Timm, lecturer in business communications. 
Chemistry and Physics: Roger Hulme, visiting associate pro­fessor of chemistry; James R. Powell, visiting assistant pro­fessor of chemistry; and Brother Joseph Godfrey, CSC, lecturer in physics. 
Communication and Theatre: 
F. Leslie Baird, visiting assis­tant professor of theatre; and Kerry Kreiman, visiting assis­tant professor of dance. 
English: Suzanne Morse­Fortier, lecturer in English lit­erature and director of the College's reading center; and Ellen Mathia and Kerry Temple, lecturers in newswriting. 
Humanistic Studies: Philip Hicks, assistant professor. 
Mathematics: Eileen Donoghue, assistant professor; Karen Whitehead, visiting in­
structor; and Richard  Davitt,  
lecturer.  
Modern  Languages:  Nancy  

D' Antuono, assistant professor of Italian; Mana Derakhshani, visiting instructor of French; and Thomas Ahrens, lecturer in German. 

Mich. Bell strikes contract with 37,000 striking workers 
Associated Press 
Michigan Bell agreed on a tentative contract for 12,800 telephone workers Wednesday, allowing 37,000 Ameritech workers in five Midwest states to head back to work and leaving NYNEX the last regional phone company still on strike. 
Officials of NYNEX Corp., 


Be an 
ambassador 
of the Admissions Office 
to your high school as part of the Undergraduate Schools Committee 
•
IDe 

For More Information ... Call Kim X2346 or Chelsea X3391 
... Or stop by the Admissions Office( 113 Admin. Bldg.) 
serving New York state and most of New England, met with union negotiators Wednesday in their first talks in two weeks. 
Ameritech's operators, repair crews and other union employees in Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio and Wisconsin began returning to work at noon following the agreement with Michigan Bell. 
Music: Andre Barbera and Douglas McConnell, visiting as­sistant professors. 
Nursing: Carolyn Kaiser and Barbara Kemper, lecturers in 
psychiatric nursing.  
Philosophy:  Andrew  
Cutrofello,  visiting  assistant  
professor.  

Psychology: Catherine Pittman, assistant professor; and Kristine Slank, visiting in­structor 
Religious Studies: Phyllis Kaminski, instructor; Jane E. McAvoy, lecturer in theology; and Rev. John Wright, visiting assistant professor. 
Sociology, Anthropology and Social Work: Bryan Y Byers and Sylvester lbuot, lecturers in sociology. 
New to the Cushwa-Leighton Library is Linda Doversberger, reference librarian. 
New administrators for the coming year are: 
Patricia A. Washington, di­rectory of minority, interna­tional and non-traditional stu­dent life ; R. William Cash, di­rector of institutional research; Lisa Karpowicz, Michele Kruze and Heather Miller, admission counselors; Joy Vann, assistant director of admission; and Adaline Stefanic Cashore, assis­tant director of alumnae rela­tions. 
Also new to Saint Mary's: Mary Ellen Hegedus, director of prospect research; Susan Johnson and Ann Stephens, re­search analysts; Michael Hupp, director of maintenance; Donna Kettlewell, Marriott Corp. food service director; and Kellie Terry, counselor in the office of counseling and career development. 

page 4 The Observer Thursday, August 31, 1989 
Bush's plan to reduce acid rain would cost 5.5 billion 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -President Bush's proposed legislation to reduce acid rain will cost more than $5.5 billion a year and force electric rate increases of at least 5 percent to 10 percent in many states, the utility industry claimed Wednesday, calling the costs excessive and unnecessary. 
The industry estimates were about a third more than pro­jected by the Bush administra­tion, but officials at the Environmental Protection Agency characterized them as not far out of line from administration estimates when various factors are taken into consideration. 
"We're heartened that their 
numbers  are  coming  out  so  
close  to  ours,"  said  Nancy  
Kete,  senior  analyst  in  the  

EPA's office of air radiation. 
She said the EPA has estimated industry costs would be about $4 billion a year when full compliance with the proposed acid rain controls go into effect in the year 2000. 
The acid rain curbs are in­cluded in legislation before Congress tightening federal air pollution laws. The Bush pro­posal calls for cutting sulfur dioxide emissions -the chief source of acid rain -by 10 million tons a year, mostly from coal-burning power plants. 
The report by the Edison Electric Institute projects industry costs as high as $120 billion as a result of having to install pollution control equipment and make other adjustments to meet the emission curbs required by the legislation. 
Under some scenarios, costs could jump to as much as $7.1 billion a year after the year 
Lesbian murders lover after years of abuse 
Associated Press 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. A woman who contends she killed her lesbian lover because she was a victim of "battered spouse syndrome" had been abused for years and feared for her life, her lawyer said at her trial Wednesday. 
Annette Green, 30, was beaten and tormented for 11 years before she fired a .38­caliber pistol into the head of Ivonne Julio, 32, after a Halloween party last year, said defense attorney William Lasley. 
Lasley hopes to introduce ex-
English 
continued from page 1 
from the Owl Creek Press. 
"As the program gets going we will look into hiring more writers for the program," said O'Rourke. O'Rourke said he hopes to keep the program small and expects to have between 10 and 20 students next year. He said the students will be divided into poets and pert testimony at the murder trial to prove she suffered from battered spouse syndrome and acted in self-defense. 
Attorneys for both sides .be­lieve the trial is one of the first in which the syndrome defense, usually employed in cas'es in­volving long-term abusive heterosexual relationships, has been applied in one involving a homosexual union. 
Green's love for Julio's teen­age twin daughters kept her from ending the stormy rela­tionship, Lasley said during a break in the first day of testi­mony Wednesday. 
fiction writers. 
Buttigieg said that the 48 hours of course credit required for the creative writing degree will include writing seminars, literature courses, tutorials and electives. Each student enrolled in the two-year program will be expected to produce a thesis in the form of a novel, a collection of short stories, a volume of poetry, or a work of literary nonfiction. 
We need students to work Movie Ticket Box 
Thurs., Fri., Sat., nights 8:00 & 10:15 I $4.00/hr. 
Pick up applications 2nd floor LaFortune 
S.U.B. Due 9/5 

2000, said the industry report, although acknowledging that was a "high-cost" scenario that envisions failure of the administration's proposed emissions credit trading scheme and broad reliance by utilities on expensive "scrubber" technology instead of fuel switching. 
The EPA's Kete said that the agency continues to believe that utilities will rely less than the industry believes on expensive technology, opt more for switching from high-sulfur to low-sulfur coal, and make the emissions credit system work. All of these factors would bring the industry estimates in line with the EPA cost estimates, she said. 
According to the industry study, about 85 percent of the increased costs of complying with the proposed emission curbs would be borne by 15 states in the eastern half of the country, where utilities rely heavily on high-sulfur coal to meet their generating needs. 
Utilities in Indiana, Missouri, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Tennessee together will face 44 percent of the annual costs na­tionwide, the industry group said. 
The industry study estimated that the higher costs would re­sult in sharp increases in some electric rates with average rate increases more than 10 percent in six states and at least 5 per­cent in another 19 states. Thirty-six of the 100 major utilities will have to impose rate increases of at least 10 percent, the industry group maintained. 
The industry report said the sharpest rate increases of be­tween 10.8 percent to 17.3 per­cent were expected in Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, Ohio, Tennessee and West Virginia. 
Ms. Kete said the EPA has es­timated average rate increases as a result of the additional pollution control requirements at about 2 percent with the highest increases in the 5 percent to 6 percent range. 
William Rosenberg, the EPA's assistant administrator for air and radiation, called the industry cost estimates "similar" to those produced by his agency, but said they should be viewed in the context of an industry that has current revenues of $150 billion a year. 
At a news conference, industry officials said that costs could be reduced by as much as 30 percent if the proposed legislation were changed to give utilities greater flexibility. 
Join The Observer 
ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ATTENTION STUDENTS!! 
NOTRE DAME'S DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER NOW HIRING FOR THE 1989 FALL SEMESTER 
25-35 Student Positions Available Starting September 5th $4.70 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 6:00-10:30 
All interested are invited to an informal Open House/Information Session at the Development Phone Center (southeast corner of Badin Hall) Thursday August 31 or Friday September 1 From 4:00p.m.-5:00p.m. 
PLEASE JOIN US For more information, call Carol McClory 239-7938 or Mike Brach 239-7241 

,..............................................................................................................., 
II  LABOR DAY WEEKEND  II  
IIII  ,  / """ BEACH BEACHbeach  •• •• •• •  IIII  
II  ~  . /PARTY........  II  
I ~  Come Enjoy the Fun at St. Joseph Lake Beach  I ~  
!i  sailing and rowing club exhibitions beach volleyball  !i  
~  swimming  ~  
~  canoes  ~  
~!  scuba and kayak demonstrations w a 1 k up gri 11 and refreshments  ~!  
Jl'!  biathlon starts at  11 am  Jl'!  
I ~  SATURDAY. SEPT EMBER 2  Ii  

~  ll:OOam -4:00pm  ~  
~  rain date sunday, september 3  ~  
~  ~  

,..................................................................,..........................................~ 
Thursday, August 31, 1989 The Observer 
page 5 


Juniors Mike O'Hara (seated) and Tom Rath relax in display their old books for sale in front of the the sun and play a game of backgammon as they Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
C!!bt Nt'ltt!J!orki!timttJ 
Subscribe to The New York Times at a 50o/o discounted student rate. Papers will be delivered by 8:00 to dorms, faculty offices 
and mailboxes.  
fall term  full year  
Monday-Friday  $16.75  $34.00  
Monday-Saturday  $19.75  $40.00  
Monday-Sunday  $49.75  $100.00  
Sunday only  $30.00  $60.00  

For more information call: Tom Mustillo 146 Keenan Hall 283-3258 
Drug 
continued from page 1 
the United States would give Colombia $65 million in mili­tary equipment such as heli­copters, in addition to some $2.5 million for protection for the Colombian Judiciary that had been promised previously. Congress last year set aside $5 million for such protection. Colombian Justice Minister Monica de Greiff met for about 40 minutes Wednesday with William Bennett, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy who developed the draft strategy, said Bennett spokesman Don Hamilton. 
Murder, rape convict executed Wednesday 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. -A man convicted of the 1977 rape and murder of a 61-year-old woman was executed Wednesday night in Virginia's electric chair. 
Alton Waye, 34, was pro­nounced dead at 11:05 p.m. after receiving two 55-second jolts of nearly 2,500 volts of electricity, said Department of Corrections spokesman Wayne Farrar. 
"I would express that what is about to take place is a mur­der," Waye said in a final statement. "I don't hate any­one. I forgive everyone in­volved." 
Waye went to the U.S. Supreme Court earlier Wednesday seeking a stay of execution, but the high court refused by a 7-2 vote to post­pone the execution and to con­sider his case on appeal. 
Waye, a former textile worker, also was denied clemency earlier Wednesday by 
"She expressed appreciation for what the United States was doing and they agreed this was not a problem that was going to be solved quickly," Hamilton said. "She said that the Colombian government was in it for the long haul and that she certainly hoped the United States would continue its sup­port." 
Hamilton would not comment on the report that the strategy called for a total of some $250 million to $260 million for Colombia, Peru and Bolivia. 
The drug strategy, mean­while, will urge states to impose tough laws against drug users, but won't threaten to without highway funds from those states that fail to do so, as the Gov. Gerald Baliles. 
Amnesty International has said Waye should not be exe­cuted because he is borderline mentally retarded. Baliles has received 638 letters opposing the execution, largely due to a letter campaign urged by the human rights group. 

Baliles, in letters Wednesday to Waye's attorneys, said he had reviewed Waye's case and "I am not persuaded that the governor's power of executive clemency should be exercised in this matter." 
Waye received communion of bread and juice Wednesday night from a boyhood school­mate, the Rev. William Bell, and the Revs. Russ Ford and A.C. Epps. 
John Coble, operations officer at the State Penitentiary, said Waye was baptized Tuesday night. "He said to tell the peo­ple, 'I am blessed,"' Coble said. 
"He's relying on his religious faith at this time," Coble said. 
draft strategy had proposed, an administration source said Wednesday. 
In addition, a proposed $25 million National Drug Intelligence Center, to be run jointly by the Drug 

Enforcement Administration and the FBI, was eliminated from the strategy due to a last­minute bid by the Treasury Department to develop a money-laundering intelligence center and combine all the ele­ments, the source said. The Justice Department objected to the sudden change of plans. 
"Justice said, 'Wait a minute. Let's step back and do this right,'" said the source. 

t·;-r-;®Dserver~"'ty.~est#iR§:;-;/{\{,';'.''k"::\\\«0:!/~\'"';\ 
Seniors, frustrated with typing your Career and Placement Profile Form? 
Let our trained profile form typists enter your information, print your profile form on a Laserwriter, and save your information on a disk for later changes if needed. Pay $6 for the initial entry of your information and 10¢ per copy of your profile form. 
Come to the Observer office, 3rd floor of LaFortune, 4-6 PM Sunday through Thursday, and get your job search off to an easy start! 

FRESHMAN SHOPPING TRIP OPPORTUNITY TO BUY THOSE TIDNGS YOU NOW FIND YOU NEED SEPTEMBER 2, 1989 BUSES LEAVE 
N.D. MAIN CIRCLE Every 15 minutes starting at 1 PM University Park Mall Every 15 minutes starting at 1:30PM 
Last bus 5 PM. NO TICKETS NO CHARGE 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Department of Communication & Theatre ANNOUNCES OPEN AUDITIONS For the ND/SMC procuction of Anton Chekhov's THREE SISTERS directed by Roberta N. Rude 
Thurs. & Fri. Aug. 31 & Sept. 1 O'Laughlin Auditorium 7:30-10:30 p.m. 
For information and audition time call 284-4640. 
AUDITIONS 


Bruno's Pizza 921 North Eddy (Goodwill Plaza) South Bend, IN 289-4625 
Delivery Available 
this week's special: 
1 
I

any 16 inch 
I

18inch medium
I

large pizza 3 items 
I 
I 

$1.00 off I $12.00 

Viewpoint
page 6 Thursday, August 31, 1989 

P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Edltor....... MaHhew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Edltor.................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor...............•....•• Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Edltor.....••.•••..••..•••••••..... John Blasi Systems Manager... . ..... Mark Derwent Photo Edltor.••••............•••.•.••....• Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Edllor.•...........•. Christine Gill Controller............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ol the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ol erther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objective­ly as possible. Unsigned edrtorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Ed­itor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Ac­cent Edrtor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, laHars, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leHers, is encouraged. 
LETTERS

Justice, Notre Dame style Student government welcomes students back to campus 
Since becoming an adult on within stringent guidelines set Dear Editor: We helped to sponsor a panel 
my 18th birthday, I have twice Mark Derwent by Student Affairs. Welcome back to all returning discussion on the reform in had the privilege of being an students and a special welcome China in June. On Sunday, we active participant in the United Systems Manager The largest and most to all freshmen and transfers. sponsored a bus from the air­States Justice system. Once in grievous difference between the We are the two guys that you port and the train station free 1987 and again in 1989, I was Office of Student Affairs and elected to serve you in student of fare for all returning stu­requested to serve as a party involved, nor can either the United States justice system government this year as dents. We plan to provide this prospective juror for a criminal the defendant or the prosecutor is in the separation of powers. Student Body President and service again at breaks. Finally,trial. act as judge or jury. The ac­The representatives of Student Vice President. Well, we do not we will be distributing the Blue Also since my 18th birthday. I cuser, the one being accused, Affairs act as prosecutor, plan to let you down. Already, & Gold Pages, the guide to on have experienced firsthand the and the judge and jury are all judge, and jury. The potential we have been very busy in our and off-campus living at Notre operation of the University of separate entities responsible for a conflict of interest be­new roles as student leaders Dame. It has all the informa­Notre Dame's justice system for separate functions. The tween the differing functions of and we are very enthused about tion you could possibly want to through the operation of the founding fathers considered Student Affairs brings into the opportunities that lie know. One will be going to each Office of Student Affairs. these rights sufficiently impor­question the overall soundness ahead. room and off-campus students Unfortunately, in this instance I tant to guarantee them to all of the system. For example, We both were out here at can pick them up in the student 
was on the receiving end of the people, regardless of cost in who is responsible to protect school this summer trying to government offices next week. legal system. time and money. the accused from an overeager get a head start for the year. Take advantage of these ser­prosecutor? In a U.S. court, the Over the summer, we worked vices and others that we will be From these two separate sets 
judge would carry out such a on a variety of different pro­providing through the course of 
of experiences and from talking At Notre Dame, function. At Notre Dame, jects. With the cooperation of the year. extensively with others who however, the prosecutor is also Mr. Mason in Business Affairs, Toward the end of last school 
however, the pros­
have had business with Student the judge. In this sense, there Fr. Tyson in Student Affairs, year, Freshman and Transfer 
Affairs, I have been able to view ecutor is also the appears to exist a case of the and Colonel Woods in Support Orientation Chairpersons were the operation of and methods 
judge. In this fox guarding the henhouse. Services, we were able to pro­selected--Sue Hatch, Vic used by these two distinct insti­
vide some input into the DeFrancis, and Kevin Keane. tutions. Upon reflecting on sense, there ap­Why is it that the University changes on the "Mod Quad" Through student government,these events, a few questions pears to exist a of Notre Dame does not deem it and lobby to construct a new, they worked diligently through­come to mind regarding the dif­necessary to include within its better volleyball pit on the out the summer to provide an
case of the fox 
ferences between the two orga­functions the inalienable rights quad. enjoyable and valuable welcome nizations. guarding the hen­that our country has deter­to the new members of our 
The U.S. Constitution grants mined to be necessary? The At the end of summer, we
house. community.that all men and women are rights of the accused are an sponsored planning sessions We want you to know that wecreated equal and entitled to important aspect of all legal for the National Association of are always looking for new, ex­certain inalienable rights. Does Notre Dame offer the systems. It would seem that for Students at Catholic Colleges cited people to become involved Included within these rights are accused on campus this same this University to have a and Universities, an organiza­in student government. If youseveral which deal specifically valuable protection? My experi­method of distributing justice tion that we would like to orig­are interested in becoming a 
with the rights of the accused ence and the experience of that is objective and fair, these inate at Notre Dame. Ten rep­part of student government,in a criminal proceeding. The others with whom I have spo­
shortcomings would have to be resentatives from various col­please stop by our offices on right to a trial by a jury of ken with puts into question the addressed. At the very least, the leges attended and the weekend the second floor of LaFortune. one's peers, to face one's ac­presence of many of these 
separation of the powers of was very productive. We plan to One of us is around most of the cuser, to counsel, and to a pub­rights in the theory and prac­judge, jury, and prosecutor be in touch with more schools time. Also, if you just have an
lic hearing are examples of tice of Student Affairs. A trial from one office would add a this fall in order to organize a idea that you want to blow ofT such rights and can be seen on this campus does not include 
sufficient degree of objectivity regional meeting and eventually on us, don't hesitate to stop by.daily in the courtrooms of the requirement of a jury, to make most hearings fair. to have a national meeting at We want to be accessible to you
America. whether it be of one's peers or At the moment, however, the Notre Dame next semester. as possible. Best of luck to you
otherwise. The right to face proverbial deck is stacked We have also worked with the this year. 
Further, it is explicitly stated one's accuser is not guaran­against the accused, administration on the new recy­that a separation of powers teed, nor is the right to view all cling program within the Matt Breslin and responsibilities exists evidence against one included. Mark Derwent is a senior University. Part of the student 
Student Body President within the environment of the An individual does have a right history and ALPA major and is initiative, support, and man­Dave Kinkopfcourthouse: A judge cannot act to counsel, but the counsel cho­Systems Manager of The power will be channeled Student Body Vice President 
as a representative of either sen by the accused must fit Observer. through student government. 
August 30. 1989 
DOONESBURY 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
fAIUL-, If YOU 
A'3KM8, TH8 ONL-Y 7HING IT VA/...IOATY3 IS H!SFAIWR& 
/ ATHOM8. 
!J&AR., IF YOU 
N&W7D885UN 
N/TH A BIMBO, WHY !XJN'T YOU JUf3T ReNTONe 
fROM AN &'3C[)RT 
I 5tR.VIC&~ 

'Becoming number one is easier than remaining number one.' 
Senator Bill Bradley 
----~~----~-~----.---­
Accent 
Thursday, August 31, 1989 page 7 
'Just The Ten Of Us' 

One sequel that shines 
'Lethal Weapon 2' a smash among all the summer's sequels 
Left: Mel Gibson returns in 'Lethal Weapon 2' as the spontaneous Detective Riggs. 
Be.low: Detec~ives Murtaugh and Riggs tryrng to provrde protective custody for Leo Getz. (1-r: Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Mel Gibson.) 
rates a zero 
The cast of ABC's new fall sitcom, "Just The Ten Of Us", a spin-off of "Growing Pains". It will air on Fridays at 8 p.m. 
JOEBUCOLO To be Continued 


"Show me that smile 
again." So goes the first line 
from the theme song of 
"Growing Pains," a witty and 
highly-rated situation 
comedy. Given the success 
of that program, the 
producers and network 
executives decided to show 
that smile again (and 
hopefully make some bucks 
again) by creating a spin-
off. The result: "Just the 
Ten of Us." 
The "Growing Pains" spin­
off presents itself Fridays 
at 8:30 p.m. on ABC. The 
show centers on the move of 
Coach Lubbock (Bill 
Kirchenbauer) and his 
family from New York to 
California. How all 10 of the 
Lubbocks fit into the vehicle 
shown during the opening 
credits isn't explained, but, 
somehow, they all do. Now 
it's time for them to begin 
their new lives in the social 
wasteland that is California. 
"Ten" is a spin-off in name 
only. It resembles its 
"parent" show onlv in the 
fact that both mothers have 
blonde hair. All the zany, 
crazy humor and 
spontaneous lines of 
"Growing Pains" were lost 
somewhere in route from 
New York to California-­
probably Iowa. In any event, 
the show seems to have 
forgotten the one element 
that differentiates a drama 
from a comedy: humor. 
The situations on "Just the Ten of Us" are simply reworded versions of other sitcom plots. Bluntly, the plotlines are predictable. In one episode, Cindy (Jamie Luver), the typically dinghy daughter, wants to become a radio talk-show host. "Do you have any idea how ex­hausting it is to have everyone trying to be your friend just because you're incredibly gorgeous?" Cindy asks. When she tells her brother she wants a radio 
job, he asks. "Are you selling 'em or fixing 'em?" Of 
course, the twist is that Wendy (Brooke Theiss) thinks Cindy only gets the job because Coach knows the 
man who runs the station. 
The show is interesting, though, and keeps the viewers' attention. Perhaps it would better qualify as a half-hour "slice of life" feature. Nonetheless, it fails to satisfy its stated genre, sitcom, by not providing humor. 
The title indicates another fatal flaw in the show's con­struction: "Just the TEN of Us." Wouldn't five have been enough? Or three? A half hour show can hardly handle five characters, let alone ten. Each episode features Mom, Dad, and a child or two--with the remaining children popping in just to say a line here and there. As a result, the audience never gets to know the Lubbocks and their individual personalities. (Maybe this is done deliberately to hide that fact that so few of them actually have personalities!) 
"Just the Ten of Us" has a definite dilemma. The best way to improve the show would be to rid it of several characters; however, the presence of eight children is the base of the show's premise. Perhaps the older children could go off to college or get their own apartment and, by doing so, start another show. No matter what happens, the writers need to make the show funny. 
"Just the Ten of Us" is the perfect example of a spin-off for the sake of a spin-off and for no other reason. Coach Lubbock was never an interesting enough character on "Growing Pains" to ever support his own show--and, unfortunately, that's blatantly obvious now. "Just the Ten of Us" is just plain 
dull. 

The movie combines an incredible amount of action with an equal amount of comedy. 
COLLEEN CRONIN 
assistant accent editor 
This was not the summer for original movies. Audiences were inundated with Part twos and sequels of sequels like never before. It's a matter of opinion whether or not these sequels met the standards set by their originals, but amidst the sub-par "Ghostbusters 2" and "Nightmare on Elm Street: Part 5", one sequel managed to shine as bright as, if not brighter, than its original: "Lethal Weapon 2". 
The sequel smoothly contin­ues right where "Lethal Weapon" left off, and furthers the hilarious relationship of Detectives Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover.) Their latest assignment involves the protec­tive custody --"babysitting" according to Riggs --of a witness who, the partners find out, was involved with the drug ring they are trying to break. Riggs and Murtaugh are only supposed to be protecting the witness, but end up diving (literally) right into a full-fledged chase. The movie 
combines an incredible amount 
of action with an equal amount 
of comedy. It is an excellent 
combination that works very 
well. 
As seen in "Lethal Weapon," 
the personalities and styles of 
Riggs and Murtaugh are two 
extremes, and the sequel plays 
on their contrasting styles. 
Riggs is spontaneous and has 
no qualms or reservations 
about anything regarding his 
work, while Murtaugh is the 
family man who likes to play it 
conservatively by the book. 
Even though they have worked 
together for three years, they 
are still constantly at each 
others throats. 
What is especially commend­
able abol}.t "Lethal Weapon 2" 
is how the individual characters 
are developed without taking 
away from the comedy and ac­
tion. The audience learns more 
about the death of Riggs' wife, 
and becomes further involved 
with the personal relationship 
of the detectives. The few seri­
ous scenes are handled very 
well --they are are not so se­_rious as to bring down the 
movie, and they are not too light as to beoome tritet · 
Riggs and Murtaugh, though they are the main characters, do not dominate the movie. The accountant they are pro­tecting, Leo Getz (Joe Pesci), adds many laughs. He ends up tagging along on the detectives' chases and-busts, and thinks th-e whole situation is the most exciting thing he's ever experienced. He is oblivious to the fact that there are people who want him dead. Consequently, he drives his pro­tectors up a wall, and sends the audience into waves of laughter. 
It is obvious that the produc­ers cut no comers in the pro­duction of "Lethal Weapon 2". The stunts and special effects are another shining aspect of the film, especially the destruc­tion of a Hollywood Hills house on stilts which is simply spectacular. 
"Lethal Weapon 2" one se­quel that meets and exceeds the standards set by the original movie. If a sequel has to be seen, let it be this one. 

The Observer Thursday, August 31, 1989
page 8 
U.S., Soviets win most gold 
Associated Press 
DUISBURG, West German -Roger Kingdom won the gold medal in the 110-meter hurdles Wednesday at the World University Games, but cold weather and stiffness prevented the two-time Olympic champion from challenging his own world record. 
Americans also won three gold medals in relays on the final day of the Games, tying them with the Soviet Union for the lead with nine. 
"I was very stiff this morning and I was concerned about that," Kingdom said. "I just dido't have e.!l-ough." Kingdom won easily, but his time of 
13.26 was well outside his two-week-old world record of 12.92. 
"I wanted to break it again," he said. "I felt pretty good yesterday. (In ·the heats) I was hitting quite a few hurdles and today we had the wind in front of us, which is good because I ran well against the wind . .But I just wasn't able to break the record." 
Kingdom held a slight lead at the first hurdle and continued pulling away de­spite hitting hard against the sixth hurdle. He was 10 feet ahead of Emilio Valle of Cuba at the finish line. 
"I tried to stay under control until the end, particularly at the last hurdle," Kingdom said. 
Valle was timed in 13.52, while the bronze medal went to Florian Schwarthoff of West Germany in 13.63. 
The U.S. women's 400-meter relay team of Michelle Finn, Anita Howard, Lamonda Miller and Esther Jones took the gold with a meet-record time of 42.40, breaking the mark of 42.82 set in 1983 by another U.S. team. 
Walker Watkins, Michael Dees, Andre Cason and Michael Marsh teamed to power the U.S. men's 400-relay teamt to the gold medal with a time of 38.58. 
The women's 1,600-meter gold medal for the Americans was won by Celena Moodie, Natasha Kaiser, Jearl Miles and Terri Dendy. 

Jamaica prevented a U.S. sweep of the relays by winning the men's 1,600-me­ters in 3:02.58. The Americans were second in 3:02.7S. 
The Americans got another silver from Michael Stulce in the men's shot put. His toss of 6 7-6 1/4 was second only to Lars Nilsen of Norway, who won the gold with a throw of 67-9 3/4. 
Another world record-holder also won despite being sub-par. 
Javier Sotomayor of Cuba took the gold in the men's high jump by clearing seven feet, eight inches, four inches below his world record. He failed three times at 7-11 1/4, which would have been a meet record. 
"While training here I developed problem with my left knee again," Sotomayor said. He said he first hurt the knee at a meet in Oslo in July. 
But the Cuban said he was happy with his season. 
"I have a lot of self-confidence and I've reached a certain level. I can't explain why, but everything seems to be going well for me this year." 
American Hollis Conway was second in 7-7, while Rudolf Povarnitsyn of the AP Photo Soviet Union, a former .world record University of Virginia football players Derek Dooley, (83), Scott Griese and Yusef Jackson holder and bronze medalist at the 1988 (51) relax before practice at Giants Stadium. Dooley's father, Vince, is the athletic director at Olympics, was third. He also cleared 7-7 Georgia, Griese is the son of former pro quarterback Bob Griese and Jackson's father is the 
but had more misses than Conway. Rev. Jesse Jackson. 
"I had problems with my first attempt and that took a lot out of me," said Conway, who had to make two efforts at 7-4 1/2. 
"When I'm strong I can beat him (Sotomayor) but I just wasn't strong enough today," Conway said. 
The Cheruiyot twins of Kenya took medals in two different events. 
Kipkoech Cheruiyot upset Olympic champion Peter Rono, also of Kenya, to win the men's 1,500, while his brother, Charles, took the silver in the 5,000, behind Stefano Mei of Italy. 
In the 1,500, the two Kenyans took charge early in the race, running in front and staying there in a relatively fast race for the windy and cool conditions. Kipkoech Cheruiyot won in three minutes, 40.38 seconds. Rono was second in 3:40.79. 
Charles Cheruiyot was in front with 1,000 meters left in the race but could not hold off a strong finish by Mei, the 1986 European champion, who won in 13:39.04. 
"This was my first good race since Stuttgart," said Mei, referring to his 1986 European title. "I was able to follow the pace, especially in the last few laps." 
Ana Quirot of Cuba completed a double by adding the women's 800­meter title to her gold in the 400. Her winning time was 1:58.88. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every bus1ness day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame oH1ce, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 until3 p m. at the Saint Mary's oHice, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next· day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES 
IIIII USED TEXBOOKS IIIII ORDERED IN 3 DAYS 25%0fF LIST PRICE!!! 
Pandora's Books 808 Howard St.. 3 Blks. from NO 
233-2342 

We have paperbacks in stock from Aristotle to Zola. Fromm to Yoder!II 
PANDORA'S BUYS USED TEXTS TOOl 

STUDENT COMEDIANS all ages ... interested in performing for Alumni Sr. Club leave name and number with what you do at 2n-3653 or 239 7521 .. 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
Alumni Sr. Club wed 9-2, thur 7-2, fri 9-2, sat 9-2 let's start the year off rightllllllllllllll 
LOST/FOUND 

Lost: Ladies gray leather wallet on Mon. between 9 am & 12 in JACC Hockey Arena. Reward offered. Very important imigration papers. Contace Susan Maxins-277-4469. 
WANTED 

MAINTENANCE POSITION OPEN APPLY AT BRIDGET'S THIS WEEK BETWEEN 2:30 & 4:30 Universrty Pizza Delivery is completing their expansion Ill We are now hiring pizza/submakers and delivery drivers (15 positions available). Flexible hours and good pay in a fast-paced, FUN environment. Join the BEST student-run business around. APPLY NOW IN PERSON at University Pizza. 18055 State Road #23. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING NEWSPAPER CARRIER FOR ST. MARY'S. Good pay, must be extremely responsible. For details call2n-1859 and leave message. 
WANTED: Student bands, all types of music. Good $$. Contact Sean or Pete McCormick 289­8031. 
LOOKING FOR A FRATERNITY, SORORITY OR STUDENT ORGANIZATION THAT WOULD 
LIKE TO MAKE $500-$1,000 FOR 
~ONEWEEKON~AMPUS 
MARKETING PROJECT. MUST 
BE ORGANIZED AND 
HARDWORKING. CALL JOE OR 
MYRA AT (800) 592-2121. 
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS I PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 EXTENSION P-2382H. 
Need mother's helper tor girls 
ages 7&9 tor 20-25 hrs per week. 
Must drive own car to University 
Park area. Call Mona 232-1111. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, 
AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NORTH 
CAMPUS. 272-0615. 
2 Bdrm HOME on NO ave.272­
6306 
For Rent 
Furnished 2 bedroom house, safe & convienent area. Private parking lot . Basket ball court. Located next to 2 other NO houses. Contact Bruce: 288­5653 or 234-3831; leave message. 
APT. UTILITIES PAID GOOD 
NEIGHBORHOOD MALE 
PREFERRED 288-0955 
FOR SALE 
COLOR TV RENTALS: LOW SEMESTER RATES. TV'S & VCR'S. FREE DELIVERY. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­5959. 
COUCH FOR SALE.272-6306 
PERFECT COLLEGE CAR-N.D. GRAD MUST SELLI1981 HONDA PRELUDE, ZlPPY 5-SPEED, SUNROOF, AC, NEW CLUTCH, NEW FRONT & REAR BRAKES, NEW AMIFM STEREO CASSETTE, AND NEW BATTERY. $2500. CALL EDDIE B. 8-6@ 271­4060 OR AFTER 6 287-9093. 
PR. Of BOSE 301 SPEAKERS. 6 MOS. OLD. BEST OFFER #1468. 
waterbedlllll queen size, ready to set up LOW PRICE. call2n-3346 1983 toyota tercel SR5 5 speed am/fm stereo, air, sunroof new everything--call 233-5789 evenings--leave message 
PLYWOOD-PERFECT FOR 
LOFT 
CALL SUSAN X4053 
TICKETS 

SB TO HARTFORD. NW AND UAL. 1-WAY. SEPT. 2 AND 6. 239-7603 OR 291-6962. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEEDED: 2 General Admission Tickets for the USC Game and 2 General Admission Tickets for the SMU Game. Please call259-8215. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
HAVE (2) GA TIX PITT & PENN ST. NEED (2) GA USC. BILL (617) 328-6898. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN 
STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL TIM, 
FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143. 
NEED 2 USC & 2MICH ST. TIX PlEASEII X1058 
WANTED-"10" PITT-NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SAT. 10/28/89. PLEASE CALL PAT COLLECT AT (412) 372-3000. 
NEED-4 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN. 
WILL PAY TOP$$$. CALL BOB 
AT 1385. 
I Need Michgan Tixll Call Dan at 271·9821 
PERSONALS 
BABYSITTERS NEEDED VARIOUS TIMES FOR CHARMING 4-YR GIRL. NEED OWN CAR AND LIKE CATS. 287-3315. 
HiAg 

SITTER NEEDED, PART TIME, 
KNOLLWOOD AREA, PREFER 
YOU HAVE OWN 

TRANSPORTATION. CALL277­
8380. 

BOOKS FOR SALE 
EE 241 Logic Design 
Math 335 Real Analysis 
Call Will at 1474. 

JOIN THE FUNIII START THE SEASON OFF RIGHT AND CELEBRATE THE KICK-OFF CLASSIC AT BRIDGET'S THURSDAY NIGHT 
JUNIORS 
Watch the KICK-OFF CLASSIC 
tonight with your classmates on 
the large screen t.v. on South 
Quad I!! 

JUNIORS The Welcome Week fun continues this weekend! Tickets for Friday night's Bam Bash are at the class office. Don~ miss the Dunes Trip on Saturday. Also join us Sunday for the class mass at the Grotto at 5:30p.m. 
1st FRIDAYVIGIL ANTI-APARTHEID NETWORK 12:15AD BLDG STEPS 
SENIORS 
SENIORS 

LAST CHANCE TO SIGN UP FOR FRIDAY'S GOLF TOURNAMENT; FRIDAY FROM 
1:30 TO 4:30 IN SENIOR CLASS OFFICE Ill SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
WELCOME BACK PICNIC MONDAY SEPT. 4TH 5-7PM HOLY CROSS FIELD 
FRIDAY. 9-12, IRISH MUSIC. 
KENNEDY & MCCORMICK. CONEY ISLAND, 125 N. MICHIGAN. 
How're you going to do it? 
How're you going to do it... 

...when your first paper is due? 
Alumni Sr. club card owners bring your ID's (school and driver's license) when you pick up your card... 
If anyone is going to the Cure concert Friday in Chicago, I desperately need a ride I Please calli! X3677 
Mark, Mike, and Rob... 
Studs that you are, Thank you so much for helping us put our carpet down. Not only do you have the strongest shoulders on campus, but you RULE as well. 
Thanks a heapl Love, The Girls in 403 Farley 
Johnny B. Thanks a wad?!? A wad of what? 

DEAR YOO-HOO, YOUR'E BROKE, YOUR'E AT THE "6", NO WAY HOME-NOT TO MENTION YOUR'E STRANGE ITCH! WHAYDA YOU GONNA DO?? RAISE THE LIMIT & ENJOYIII 
MUCH LOVE & XO'S, "lliE FILER" 




THE GAME 
Time Tickets AP Rankings 
Series 
NO SCHEDULE 


Aug 31 
Sept. 16 Sept. 23 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 
VIRGINIA SCHEDULE 


1989 Kickoff Classic Sept. 9 at Penn State Sept. 16 at Georgia Tech Sept. 23 DUKE Sept. 30 WILLIAM AND MARY Oct. 7 at Clemson Oct. 14 NORTH CAROLINA Oct. 21 WAKE FOREST Oct. 28 LOUISVILLE Nov. 4 at N.C. State Nov. 11 VIRGINIA TECH Nov. 18 at Maryland 
LAST GAME 
For Notre Dame, the Battle for No.1 was the perfect ending to a perfect season. 
The Irish reigned in 1988, and on the second day of 1989 they claimed their crown with a 34-21 pounding of West Virginia. 
"I've underestimated this team in a lot of areas," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz, who guided the team to the first 12-0 season in Notre Dame's storied history. "They've done everything I've asked of them. Is this a great football team? I'd have to say yes, because nobody proved it wasn't." 
Certainly not the Mountaineers, whose hopes of a na­tional championship vanished early in the one-sided af­fair. 
A record crowd of 74,911 saw a stingy Irish defense shut down yet another high-powered defense lad by a big name quarterback. Major Harris and the Mountaineers were no match for Notre Dame, which outgained West Virginia 455-282 yards on the day and did not allow a first down until nearly six minutes into the second quarter. 
"They're a doggone physical football team," said West Virginia coach Don Nehlen. "They were better than us on both sides of the ball." 
Irish quarterback· Tony Rice stole the show from Harris, completing 7 of 11 passes for 213 touchdowns to earn the game's Most Valuable Player award. 
-~----~-----~-------------------.... 
ISH 
XTRA 

Notre Dame vs. Virginia 
Thursday, August 31, 1989 

6:30 p.m. South Bend time Game is sold out Notre Dame 2nd 
Virginia unranked This is the first meeting
between these two teams 
Virginia 1989 Kickoff Classic at Michigan MICHIGAN STATE at Purdue at Stanford at Air Force 
usc 

PITTSBURGH NAVY SMU at Penn State at Miami 
File Photo 

Notre Dame linebacker Ned Bolcar (42) has the situation in hand. 
Bolcarleads team through turmoil and two-a-days 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Editor 
Last year, Ned Bolcar captained his team to the National Championship. The year before, he was a second-team All-American and CBS' Defensive Player of the year. 
This year, Bolcar would like to repeat those kinds of honors. And, as fall practice progressed, it was obvious he had a chance to do it all. He was already a captain, having been named in the spring to lead the team along with Tony Rice and Anthony Johnson. The Irish were returning as strong, if not stronger, than 1988, and Bolcar could expect to regain the full-time job he had shared among the talented linebackers last year. He and the Irish came to practice in early August to prepare to battle for the title again. 
But the Irish were soon fighting for their lives, and the first major test for Bolcar would be one of his leadership in the wake of the losses of five key returnees, including fellow linebacker Michael Stonebreaker. 
"When we got here, it looked like we were in a pretty good position," Bolcar said. "Then we lost some very important people.lt hurts the team any­time, especially when you lose players that important so quickly. It seemed like we were running out of luck. It was so important to keep a positive frame of mind. We had to pool together and fill the holes. We have a whole bunch of young guys who don't have any ex­perience, and we had to hurry them up. They have to be ready to play roles and help this team, maybe even a year before they expected to play. 
"I think fall drills made me more of a leader, more involved in keeping this team going in a positive di­rection." 
Bolcar's leadership abilities were already recog­nized by the Irish, as he was selected to be a tri­captain for the second straight year, only the 11th two-time captain in Notre Dame history. He was granted ·an extra season of eligibility in the spring because he did not participate his freshman year and is currently in Notre Dame's MBA Program. 
Last year, Bolcar shared the eagle and middle linebacker spots with Stonebreaker and Wes Pritchett, who has since graduated. Being the only re­turnee of the three, Bolcar is nonetheless optimistic about the replacements. 
"There's no way to really take the place of the people we've lost," Bolcar said. "Donn Grimm is a quality linebacker. I think he's going to play well, play a consistent game and not make many mistakes. Michael Smalls is backing up, and he's coming along and just getting better and better. Mter that we've got a lot of young guys who can help out. 
"We'll be OK," Bolcar said. "Not as deep as we ex­pected, but not as week as you might expect." Bolcar's leadership abilities were also tested by the August heat. Irish head coach Lou Holtz held two-a­
see BOLCAR I page 4 

IRISH EXTRA 
page 2 
The Game••• 
By STEVE MEGARGEE tailback. Rodney Culver and Kenny 
Associate Sports Editor Spears also will see action, as will 
junior Ryan Mihalko at fullback. 
If you're going to ask Virginia coach Flanker Raghib "Rocket" Ismail (12 
George Welsh about the quality of the catches, 331 yards) and split end Pat 
Notre Dame football team, you'd better Eilers (6, 70) will be the starting 
plan on staying a while. wideouts. As spring practice closed, 
"This Notre Dame team reminds me this unit appeared to be seriously of the teams I saw in the 70's when lacking in depth. (Ara) Parseghian and Dan Devine were "We have some talented wide there," said Welsh, whose team meets receivers who need to develop, and they the Irish in the Kickoff Classic at Giants show signs of doing it," said Holtz. Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J.. "They The offensive line, a question mark as had a different kind of offense then, but last season opened, has emerged as one things have changed in the last 10 of the strengths of this year's squad. years. They have a very physical, Center Mike Heldt, guards Tim intense type of play, especially on Grunhard and Tim Ryan and tackle defense. Dean Brown all are returning starters. 
"They have really great tacklers in the Mike Brennan, who replaces Andy Heck secondary, good people up front and a at the other tackle slot, also received dominant offensive line. (Tony) Rice can plenty of playing time last season. beat you just like (Joe) Montana could Billy Hackett and freshman Craig beat you." Hentrich have been competing for the 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz is, well, placekicking job, and neither has been slightly more restrained in singing his hurt by the new NCAA ruling that for­team's praises. bids players to kick from a tee. 
"We're awfully thin at several Hentrich and incumbent Jim Sexton are positions, I'm greatly concerned about trying to handle the punting chores. linebacker and running back as far as Ismail and Watters are returning to depth is concerned," said Holtz. "If we their specialty assignments as kickoff lose a Tony Rice, a Ned Bolcar, returner and punt returner, someone on the defensive line ... it's not respectively. a football team that can stand any Virginia returns nine starters, more adversity, particularly injury-wise. including the entire line and secondary, 
Welsh, who is respected by his peers from last year's defense. Senior defen­as one of the best in the craft. can only sive end and tri-captain Ray Savage hope his Cavaliers shed their reputation anchors the line. for having trouble early in the season. The only area where Virginia lacks When Virginia faced a big-name experience on defense is at linebacker, opponent early last year, the team came where Jeff Lageman and David Griggs out tight and fell 42-14 against what both have left since getting selected in 
proved to be a mediocre Penn State the National Football League draft. Smagala and safeties D'Juan Francisco "He's the type of quarterback you see club. They will be replaced by seniors and and Pat Terrell. more and more of today, like a Darnell 
"It's not a bowl game, it's an opening three-time lettermen Phil Thomas and "We have to ask the secondary to do Dickerson or a Major Harris," said 
game," said the man who has led Elton Toliver. more because of the problems with our Holtz. "He has a strong arm, he's a Virginia football out of obscurity the Virginia allowed over 22 points per defensive line and linebackers," said good scrambler and he provides really past seven years. "We've got to treat it game last season, while Notre Dame Holtz. "There were some games last good leadership." like just another game." averaged well over 30 points per game. year were you could have played Welsh says Moore has fared well in 
Notre Dame defense secondary in a rocking chair, and that off-season drills. 
Notre Dame's offense vs. certainly won't be the case this year." "Shawn Moore's a better quarterback 
vs. Virginia offense With tri-captain Ned Bolcar, who had now than he was at the end of last 
Virginia's defense an outstanding spring, and Donn season," he said. "He's a better passer 
The Irish defense, which looked Grimm, the linebacking corps should be now." 
After spending last season devastating on paper this summer, solid. The Irish are thin at linebacker Moore will be throwing to 6-foot-5 outperforming lleisman Trophy appears slightly more vulnerable after after those two players. split end Herman Moore (24 catches,contenders in head-to-head the losses of Arnold Ale, Michael Virginia football gained an 466 yards) and flanker Tim· Finkelston competitions, Irish quarterback Tony Stonebreaker and George "Boo" uncharacteristic amount of off-season (19, 346). Finkelston also is one of Rice (70-of-138 for 1,176 yards Williams. That doesn't mean any attention last winter when the Cavaliers Virginia's main return men on special passing, 700 yards rushing in '88) will offenses are going to lick their chops in signed tailback Tery Kirby, the Parade teams. get a chance to see what it's like being anticipation of meetings with Notre High School Player of the Year. But "Herman Moore is the best big a candidate for the award this year. Dame. make no mistake about it, the Virginia receiver I've seen in an awfully long Rice is the one player Notre Dame Jeff Aim, Bob Dahl and Chris Zorich offense centers on junior quarterback time," said Holtz. 
absolutely can not afford to lose this make up a defensive line that should Shawn Moore (141-of-282 for 2,158 Marcus Wilson (89 carries, 436 season. help give Notre Dame one of the top yards passing, 580 yards rushing). yards) and Donald Bryant (31, 112) will 
Rice's backfield mates include run defenses in the country. Moore, who ranked 19th in the nation start as the Virginia running backs, but Anthony Johnson (69 carries for 282 The secondary looks particularly last year in total offense, improved his Kirby could enter the game at any yards) at fullback and Ricky Watters at strong with Todd Lyght and Stan passing game as last season wore on. point. 
CAVALIERS TO WATCH 

George Welsh Hennan Moore 
Welsh, the third winningest Sophomore wide receiver Toliver, a 6-2 linebacker, 
coach in University of Virginia Herman Moore lettered last played in all 11 games last 
history. has led the Cavaliers season as a red-shirt fresh­season and totalled 58 tack­
to five winning seasons in the man and returns to lead the les, two for loss, recovered 
last six years, two bowl recipients of Shawn Moore's two fumbles and batted down 
games and impressive fin­passes. In 1 0 games in 1988, six passes. He played de­
ishes in the Atlantic Coast he had 24 receptions for 466 fensive tackle until spring
Conference. Welsh has a yards and four touchdowns. practices of this year.
File Photo record of 40-37-2 at Virginia. 



Virginia defensive end Ray Savage 
IRISH EXTRA 
Thursday, August 31, 1989 
page 3 

NO OPPONENTS SCHEDULES  
MICHIGAN 1988 RECORD: 9·2·1 S16 Notre Dame S23 at UCLA S30 Maryland 07 Wisconsin 014 at Michigan State 021 at Iowa 028 Indiana N4 Purdue N11 atlllino~ N18 Minnesota N25 Ohlio State  MICHIGAN ST. 1988 RECORD: 6·4·1 S16 Miami (Ohio) S23 at Notre Dame S30 Miami (Fla.) m ~Iowa 014 Michigan 021 Illinois 028 at Purdue N4 at Indiana N11 Minnesota N18 Northwestern N25 at Wisconsin  PURDUE 1988 RECORD: 4-7-0 S9 Miami (Ohio) S16 at Washington S30 Notre Dame 07 at Minnesota 014 Illinois 021 at Ohio St. 028 Michigan St. N4 at Michigan N11 Northwestern N18 Iowa N25 at Indiana  STANFORD 1988 RECORD: 3·6·2 S2 at Arizona S9 at Oregon St. S23 Oregon S30 San Jose St. 07 Notre Dame 014 at Washington 021 Utah 028 at Southern Cal N4 UCLA N11 at Arizona St. N18 California  
AIR FORCE 1988 RECORD: 5-7-0 S2 S. Diego St. S10 Wyoming S 16 at Northwestern S23 Texas-El Paso S30 at Colorado St. 07 at Navy 014 Notre Dame 021 at TCU N4 Army N11 at BYU N25 at Utah D9 at Hawaii  SOUTHERN CAL 1988 RECORD: 10-1-0 S4 Illinois S16 Utah St. S23 Ohio St. S30 at Washington St. 07 Washington 014 at California 028 Stanford N4 Oregon St. N11 at Arizona N18 UCLA N26 Notre Dame  
 PITTSBURGH 1988 RECORD: 6·5·0 S2 Pacific S9 at Boston Coli. S23 Syracuse S30 at West Virginia 07 at Temple 014 Navy 028 at Notre Dame N11 Miami (Fla.) N18 E.Carolina N25 Penn St. D2 Rutgers  NAVY 1988 RECORD: 3·8·0 S16 BYU S23 The Citadel S30 at N. Carolina 07 Air Force 014 at Pittsburgh021 at Boston Coli. 028 J. Madison N4 at Notre Dame Nll SyracuseN18 at Delaware D9 at Army  - 
SO. METHODIST 1988 RECORD:0-0-0 S2 Rice S16 Connecticut S23 Texas S30 at TCU 014 Baylor 021 at Houston 028 North Texas N4 at Texas A&M N11 at Notre Dame N18 Texas Tech D2 Arkansas  
 PENN ST. 1988 RECORD: 5·6-0 S9 Virginia S16 Temple S23 Boston College S30 at Texas 07 at Rutgers 014 at Syracuse 028 Alabama N4 West Virginia N11 Maryland N18 Notre Dame N25 at Pitt  MIAMI (FLA.) 1988 RECORD: 11·1·0 S9 at Wisconsin S16 California S23 · at Missouri S30 at Michigan St. 07 Cincinnati 014 San Jose St. 028 at Florida St. N4 E. Carolina N11 at Pittsburgh N18 San Diego St. N25 Notre Dame  • l~ MIAMI  ....  
AP  TOP 20 & OTHERS  
NEBRASKA 1988 RECORD: 11-1·0 S9 Northern Ill. S16 Utah S23 at Minnesota S30 Oregon St. 07 Kansas St. 014 at Missouri 021 at Oklahoma St. 028 Iowa St. N4 at Colorado N11 Kansas N18 Oklahoma  FLORIDA ST. 1988 RECORD: 10·1·0 S2 S. Miss. S9 Clemson S16 at LSU S23 Tulane 07 at Syracuse 014 at Virginia Tech 021 Auburn 028 Miami N4 South Carolina N18 Memphis St. D2 at Florida  
 LOUISIANA ST. 1988 RECORD: 8-4-0 S2 at Texas A&M S16 Florida St. S30 Ohio 07 Florida 014 at Auburn 021 at Kentucky 028 Tennessee N4 at Mississippi N11 Alabama N18 Mississippi St. N25 at Tulane  
 
AUBURN 1988 RECORD:10·1·0 S9 Pacific S16 S. Mississippi S30 at Tennessee 07 at Kentucky014 LSU 021 at Florida St. 028 Miss. St. N4 Florida N11 Louisiana Tech N18 at GeorgiaD2 Alabama  UCLA 1988 RECORD: 9·2·0 S9 Tennessee S16 at San Diego St. S23 Michigan S30 California 07 Arizona St. 014 at Arizona 021 at Oregon St. 028 Washington N4 at Stanford N11 Oregon N18 at Southern Cal  ARKANSAS 1988 RECORD:10·1·0 S16 Tulsa S23 Mississippi S30 Texas-El Paso 07 at TCU 014 at Texas Tech 021 Texas 028 Houston N4 at Rice Nll Baylor N24 at Texas A&M D2 So. Methodist  
 CLEMSON 1988 RECORD: 9-2-0 S2 Furman S9 at Florida St. S16 at Virginia Tech S23 Maryland S30 at Duke 07 Virginia 014 Georgia Tech 021 N.C. State 028 Wake Forest N4 at N. Carolina N18 at South Carolina  
....  
SYRACUSE 1988 RECORD: 9-2-0 S9 at Temple S16 Army S23 at Pittsburgh 07 Florida St. 1 4 Penn St. 021 at Rutgers 028 E. Carolina N4 Boston Coli. N11 at Navy N23 West Virginia D3 Louisville  COLORADO 1988 RECORD: 8·3·0 S4 Texas S9 Colorado St. S16 Illinois S30 at Washington 07 Missouri 014 at Iowa St. 021 Kansas 028 at Oklahoma N4 Nebraska N11 at Oklahoma St. N18 at Kansas St.  OKLAHOMA 1988 RECORD: 9·2·0 S2 N. Mexico St. S9 Baylor S16 at Arizona S30 at Kansas 7 Oklahoma St. 014 Texas 021 at Iowa St. 028 Colorado N4 Missouri N11 Kansas St. N18 at Nebraska  ALABAMA 1988 RECORD: 9·3·0 S16 Memphis St. S23 Kentucky S30 at Vanderbilt 07 at Mississippi 014 SW Louisiana 021 Tennessee 028 at Penn St. N4 Mississippi St. N11 at LSU N18 S. Mississippi D2 at Auburn  W.VIRGINIA 1988 RECORD: 11-0-0 S2 Ball St. S9 at Maryland S16 S. Carolina S23 at Louisville S30 Pittsburgh 07 Virginia 021 Cincinnati 028 at Boston College N4 at Penn St. N11 Rutgers N23 at Syracuse  
ARIZONA 1988 RECORD: 7-4-0 S2 Stanford S9 at Texas Tech S16 Oklahoma S23 Washington S30 at Oregon 014 UCLA 021 at Washington St. 028 Pacific N4 at California N11 Southern Cal N25 at Arizona St.  AKRON 1988 RECORD: 5·6·0 S2 at Va. Tech S9 Kent St. S16 at C. Michigan S2 at Youngstown S30 at Bowling Green 07 Louisiana Tech 014 at E. Illinois 021 at Murray St. 028 Cincinnati N4 N. Arizona Nll at Tennessee  INDIANA 1988 RECORD: 7-3-1 S9 at Kentucky S16 Missouri S30 Toledo 07 Northwestern 014 at Ohio St. 021 Minnesota 028 at Michigan N4 Michigan St. N11 at Wisconsin N18 at Illinois N25 Purdue  ILLINOIS 1988 RECORD: 6-4-1 S4 at Southern Cal S16 at Colorado S23 Utah St. 07 Ohio St. 014 at Purdue 021 at Michigan St. 028 Wisconsin N4 at Iowa N11 Michigan N18 Indiana N25 at Northwestern  -- 

-IRISH EXTRA 
p~_ge 4 Thursday, August 31, 1989 
COACHES

Business as usual as Holtz 
Lou Holtz 

Career Record 141-75-5 Record at ND 25-10-0
bemoansthe plightofND 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J-If Lou Holtz had managed the 1927 Yankees, he probably would have moaned about Babe Huth's strikeouts and convinced writers that the club was head­ing for a last-place finish. So it isn't surprising that the coach of defending national champion Notre Dame is already poor­mouthing his team's chances in 1989. 
"We're not a top 20 team right now," Holtz said at a news conference Tuesday.

-"We're not as good as you think, but we're probably not as bad as I think." Actually, Holtz has reason to worry as his team prepares to open the college football season against Virginia in Thursday night's Kickoff Classic at Giants Stadium. In the last month, Notre Dame has lost seven players expected to play a significant role on this year's team. One quit, another transferred, two were banished for disciplinary reasons, two couldn't recover from lingering injuries and one was declared academically in­eligible. The most damaging depar­tures were All-American 
THE FIGHTING IRISH 

linebacker Michael Stonebreaker and running back Tony Brooks, the team's sec­ond-leading rusher last season. Also gone for the season are defensive tackle George Williams, fullback Braxston 
''""·' ·.,. ~~,~,@?-£!%""'
I '"'"~I 
: ' "''"·;, :~ . ! 

Lou Holtz 

Banks, defensive end Arnold Ale, linebacker John Foley and offensive tackle Pete Rausch. 
"We've got a completely dif­ferent team than the one we started spring practice with," Holtz said. "We're awfully thin at a lot of positions and we've got an awful lot of question marks." 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE 
SE  13  Pat Eilers  
83  Tony Smith  
QT  64  Mike Brennan  
53  Winston Sandri  
QG  52  Tim Ryan  
61  Tom Gorman  
c  55  Mike Heldt  
76  Gene McGuire  
TG  75  Tim Grunhard  
74  Mirko Jurkovic  
TT  71  Dean Brown  
72  Joe Allen  
TE  86  Derek Brown  
88  Frank Jacobs  
QB  9  Tony Rice  
8  Steve Belles  
FB  22  A. Johnson  
35  Ryan Mihalko  
TB  12  Ricky Watters  
5  Hodney Culver  
FL  25  Raghib Ismail  
6  Antwon Lark  
K  18  Billy Hackett  
28  Craig flentrich  
p  16  Jim Sexton  
28  Craig Hentrich  

THE CAVALIERS 

VIRGINIA OFFENSE 
SE  frl  Herman Moore  
83  Derek Dooley  
LT  72  Ray Roberts  
70  Rip Leonard  
LG  57  Roy Brown  
58  Jeff Tomline  
..  c  52 70  Tim Morris Rip Leonard  
RG  65  Trevor Ryals  
71  Tim O'Connor  
RT  67  Pual Collins  
76  Chris Borsari  
TE  86  B. McGonnigal  
82  Mark Cooke  
.....  QB  12 13  Shawn Moore Brian Satola  
FB  30  Donald Bryant  
40  Durwin Greggs  
TB  29  Marcus Wilson  
33  Nikki Fisher  
-­ FL  84 89  Tim Finkelston Johnni Wilson  
K  11  Jake Mcinerney  
3  John Gowen  
p  10  Ed Garno  
1  Myron Martin  

5-11 193 Sr. RE 37 Scott Kowalkowski 6-2 226 
6-2 187 So. 45 Devon McDonald 6-3 6-5 260 Sr. LT 93 Bob Dahl 6-5 6-4 275 Jr. 92 Bryan Flannery 6-3 6-4 259 Jr. NT 50 Chris Zorich 6-1 6-6 265 Sr. 99 Troy Ridgely 6-4 6-4 265 Jr. RT 90 Jeff Aim 6-7 6-5 £59 So. 92 Bryan Flannery 6-3 6-3 292 Sr DE 7 Andre Jones 6-4 6-5 279 So. 98 Shawn Smith 6-3 6-3 291 Sr. ELB 36 Donn Grimm 6-2 6-4 288 Jr. 30 Nick Smith 6-3 6-7 235 So. MLB 47 Ned Bolcar 6-2 6-5 234 Jr. 48 Michael Smalls 6-3 6-1 200 Sr. FCB 1 Todd Lyght 6-1 6-4 217 Sr. 21 Rod Smith 6-1 6-0 220 Sr. SCB 29 Stan Smagala 5-11 
6-2 234 Jr. 6-2 199 Jr. ss 6-0 219 So. 5-10 175 So. FS 
5-11 6-1 6-1 6-0 6-1 
6-5 6-1 6-6 6-5 6-6 6-4 6-3 6-5 6-4 6-6 6-5 6-5 6-5 6-4 6-2 6-5 6-0 6-0 6-1 5-11 6-0 6-0 6-1 5-9 6-0 
180 Jr. 194 'Jr. 175 Fr. 183 Jr. 175 Fr. 
197 So. LE 183 Jr. 294 So. LT 270 Jr. 271 Sr. NG 252 Fr. 252 Sr. RT 270 Jr. 256 Jr. RE 275 Sr. 274 Jr. LB 265 Jr. 222 Jr. LB 222 Jr. 210 Jr. CB 205 So. 215 Sr. CB 237 Sr. 204 Jr. ss 209 So. 182 Sr. FS 164 Jr. 197 Jr. 168 Jr. 185 So. 
5-10 209 Jr. 

George Welsh
Holtz tried his best to portray the Fighting Irish as under­
Career Record 195-83-3manned, overrated and, in one 
Record at UVA 40-37-2 case at least, underfed. 
"Our second-string defensive tackle is a true freshman who only weighs 216 pounds," he said. "He's going to be a good one-as soon as he finds the cafeteria." 
A steady diet of Rice is what Notre Dame's opponents will be fed this season. Versatile quar­terback Tony Rice not only threw for 1,176 yards and eight touchdowns last season, but also led the team in rushing with 700 yards. 
"We've spent a lot of time working on his best plays," Virginia coach George Welsh said. "But maybe his best plays won't be the same this year." 
Unlike Notre Dame, Virginia is not a traditional football power. But Welsh has led the Cavaliers to five winning sea­sons in the past six years, in­cluding a 7-4 mark in 1988. 
All but four starters return from that team, which finished with five consecutive victories. The offense will be directed by junior quarterback Shawn Moore, 19th in the nation last 

year in total offense. 
19 Shawn Davis 6-0 32 OJ Francisco 5-11 26 Greg Davis 6-1 15 Pat Terrell 6-0 27 George Poorman 6-2 
VIRGINIA DEFENSE 
94 Donald Reynolds 6-4 58 James Pearson 6-2 92 Chris Stearns 6-6 61 Billy Keys 6-5 90 Ron Carey 6-3 78 Joe Hall 6-2 78 Joe Hall 6-2 90 Ron Carey 6-3 56 Ray Savage 6-2 58 James Pearson 6-2 44 Phil Thomas 6-0 45 Mike Williams 6-4 54 Elton Toliver 6-2 51 Yusef Jackson 6-1 228 263 253 268 250 270 253 215 206 231 225 229 223 181 183 186 181 182 198 195 191 
247 238 270 262 261 266 266 261 235 238 223 227 244 221 

7  Jason Wallace  5-11 164  
31  Kevin Cook  6­1 189  
5  Toney Covington  6-0  185  
17  Greg Jeffries  5-9  174  
9  Tyrone Lewis  5-10 190  
30  Buddy Omohundro 6-1  193  
16  Keith McMeans  5-11  182  
23  Randy Foley  6-0  183  

Jr. So. Jr. Sr. Jr. So Sr. Sr. Jr, Fr. Jr. Fr. Sr. So. Jr. So. Sr. So. Sr. 
I
Jr. 

-
File Photo 
Sr. So. 

Irish co-caetain Ned Bo!car 
Bolcar 
continued from page 1 

day practices for 2 1/2 weeks, as opposed to the usual five days. 
"It was rough," he said. "I hadn't had double sessions forSo. 
that long since high school. ItFr. 
was an amazing amount ofJr. 
work, and we were here earlySr. 
to practice for the Kickoff
Jr. 

Classic. It really was a test for
Jr 

a lot of people. I think it shows
Jr. 

something about the characterJr. 
of this team.." Sr. 

Bolcar knows a little some­Fr. 
thing about character. After
Sr. 

the 1987 season in which he·Sr. 
started every game and fin­
Sr. 

ished with 36 more tackles thanFr. 
any other Irish player, Bolcar
Jr 

never started in 1988. He stillSr. 
finished fourth on the team in
Jr. 

tackles, filling in for PritchettFr 
and Stonebreaker in every
So. 

game. He played almost the en­Fr. 
tire Fiesta Bowl and had two
Jr. 
tackles.
So. 

·Being in his fifth year, Bolcar has been a key witness to the turnaround of the Notre Dame football program. 
"I've been through five fall camps, four spring pr<~;ctices and four winter training ses­sions," Bolcar said. "A lot of people don't realize the time and effort it has taken from so many people to achieve what we have. 
"Coach Holtz came to ND, and we knew he was an experi­enced, talented coach. Then, when practices started, we realized what a disciplinarian he was. Anyone can see the effect he's had on us." 
Bolcar and the team are ready to return to form and begin the defense of the title. But, in true Notre Dame fash­ion, no one is looking past the Kickoff Classic and the Virginia Cavaliers. 
"We've heard a lot about how fired up Virginia is and how they have an edge because they're the underdogs and have nothing to lose. But we've got some motivation now, too. We've got something to prove, to show that we can meet with adversity and treat it as a chal­lenge to be met. We're playing for our life out there." 
And Bolcar is playing for a repeat of the success of his Notre Dame career. 
--~----------------------------­
Thursday, August 31, 1989 The Observer page 9 

AP Photo 

West Virginia coach Don Nehlen will try to beat a close friend Saturday when the Mountaineers meet Ball State, whose coach once worked with Nehlen. Ball State coach Paul Schudel says he'd rather not start against Nehlen's team. Story at right. 

Ball State's Schudel cautious as season -­opener against West Virginia approaches 
Associated Press 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. Ball State coach Paul Schudel said Wednesday he doesn't exactly like the idea of starting the season against a team like West Virginia. 
"I'd rather start out against somebody else and then play them maybe next week," said Schudel, whose Cardinals take on the Mountaineers Saturday 
at  Mountaineer  Field in  the  
opener for both teams.  
"When  we  scheduled  the  

game five years ago, they weren't this good." 
The Mountaineers went unde­feated and untied last season for the first time in 97 years of football and were named the top team in the East before losing to Notre Dame 34-21 in the Fiesta Bowl. 
Ball State finished the year tied for third in the Mid­American Conference with an 8­3 record. 
"We just want to go out and play hard and play well," Schudel said during a telephone interview. "Whatever happens, happens. It will be a great chal­lenge and a great honor to play against a team like West Virginia. 
''I'll be satisified if we execute and play hard from beginning to end. It's the first game for 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Take a lilesovtng Red Cross CPR course. 
+AmericanRedCross 
!! 


HALF MIQi±: S:Wl~ TWO MII..JERlJN·•··· 
SATURDAY SEPTEMBER ~ 11 AM ST. JOSEPH lAKE BBACH 
. . . . . . .·..:.·. .-:·.<<·.·.. :-.::-. 
INDIVIDUAL AND TWO PERSON COMPETITIONS 
REGISTER IN AD\l.ANCE.Ai NVA REPORT TO.. ··.··BEACI-i>BY lO::~oAM >·· 

. . . . . 
.CA~~Si~~=~+o~~,~~~i~,~~~~~M 
0 PEN.'TO····•Att: 
~~,~~~~~~~~i~~~,,~,~;':,····,·: NO PR IZEfficiT ~,t:Js:lff~IIB~~~GL~R!+
.. . ........ :." ·:··-:-::·-:... ·.. <<-:>:::-:.....>::::::>::::::-.·: ::::: :-:...· .··.:-:-.···.·.:. :.;:-::::·:·:::-:-·. 
.......... al:AcH•.>PA~rX? m@·••••·•R()DL(.)V/(••·•·•·•••••·•••·•·····•· ···-·.·· AT CONCLUSJQN OF RACE . 
·~< 


everybody and it will be tough. We'll just let the chips fall where they may." 
It will be the first time the two schools have met in foot­ball. But Schudel and West Virginia coach Don Nehlen are close friends and each knows the other's coaching style. 
They worked together as as­sistants to Michigan coach Bo Schembechler in the late 1970s and spent many nights dis­cussing their respective coach­ing philosophies. 
"He's going to do everything he can to beat me and he knows I'm going to be out to beat him," Schulen said. 
"But we'll still be friends." 
Schulen said his offense basi­cally uses the I-formation, but he said West Virginia's defense can expect to see some plays run from the shotgun. 
"We'll use it when it's appro­priate," said Schulen. "We like to run the football. I 'know it's going to be a challenge to do that against West Virginia." 
The 45-year-old Ball State coach said money entered into the decision to include West Virginia on the Cardinals schedule this season. 
"It was partly a financial de­cision, but part of the reason the game was scheduled was because our athletic director (Don Purvis) and Don (Nehlen) coached together at Bowling Green. 

"A lot of those times games are scheduled that way, just by friendship." 
Ball State will reportedly take away about $87,000 from its contest with the Mountaineers. 
"We're working to improve our facilities and at the same time I think you need to play people of West Virginia's cal­iber for recruiting reasons," said Schudel. "We're not ready to play people like this week in and week out-we'd get killed. 
"But we like to do it on an occasional basis to improve our program." 
The Mountaineers had their last contact drill before Saturday's game on Wednesday. Gov. Gaston Caperton visited the squad dur­ing a break in practice and wished them luck during the upcoming season. 
"I talked a little bit about the fact that you have to dream, you have to set goals and you have to work hard," Caperton said after the 10-minute meet­ing that was closed to re­porters. 
"I just feel it will be another great year and I look forward to being here as much as I can.'' 
~: .· 

NASA was warned that 0-rtngs could not withstand freezing temperatures. 
Hthepressdidn't tellus,whowould? 
To get printed information on the role of a free press and how it protects your rights, or to discuss any free press issue, call the First Amendment Center at 1-800-542-1600. 
-. 

Congratulates our new DJ staff for 1989-90 year. Come see if we made the right choice ... 
1) John Biscaino 
2) Todd Brown 
3) Mike Jennings 
4) Brian McCarthy 
5) Luis Munoz 
6) Bryan Rao 
Ready for a great year! 
-
page 10 The Observer Thursday, August 31, 1989 
..­
.... 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

The ND lacrosse team is holding a meeting for all students interested in trying out for the team Monday at 4 
p.m. at Loftus Auditorium. -The Observer. 
The Lyons Volleyball Tournament will be held Saturday, Sept. 9. Signups are in both dining halls Monday and Tuesday. Teams consist of sic members with a minimum of two girls on each team. The entry fee is $9 per team. All profits go to charity. Team names are requested. Call #2851 in any questions. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby Club will hold an informational meeting in the Haggar Hall Auditorium at 5 p.m. on Thurs., Aug. 31 for anyone interested in joining the club. No experience is necessary. If you have any questions, call Mike at 287-8648.­The Observer 
The Cycling Club of Notre Dame is gearing up and hitting the road. Sign up for fun, fitness and sport. Call Darren Buck at 283-3472 for more information. -The Observer. · 
The Notre Dame Golf Teams, in conjunction with the Burke Memorial Golf Course, are holding a tournament September 9, 10, 16 and 17. The Notre Dame Campus 



Don't miss this golden opportunity to save on a Balfour College Class Ring! • $300FF10K • $500FF14K • $700FF18K Hurry! Offered for a limited time only! 
See your Balfour Representative 
During "Ring Week" Tuesday through Friday September 5th-8th from 10:00-4:30 
In the Haggar College Center Game Room 
winning or winning ugly that the Bears beat Miami 9-i
Miami 
remains to be seen. Conflicting in their last meeting back in 
quotes have Erickson both 1964. Mter a game at Michigan
continued from page 16 
deploring and tolerating the State, they play Cincinnati and 
Dame sent a contingent finger-pointing and taunting of San Jose State. Three of their headed by Athletic Director previous Hurricane teams I'll last four games are at the Richard Rosenthal to Miami for believe the latter until I have Orange Bowl. Give the discussions about future tangible evidence of the former. Hurricanes credit in that they scheduling. The two schools Erickson, a former play Florida State on the road. didn't reach agreement on quarterback at Montana State, What it all boils down to is extending the football contract, says he will still utilize the Miami is Miami, like apples are but they will meet in a series of passing game, which translates apples, oranges are oranges basketball games beginning to scores like those of the and bananas are bananas. this year. Johnson era, 42-14 romps over People and coaches change, but 
But, low and behold, the more teams like Youngstown State teams don't. things change the more they and Maine University. Maybe So back to that question; Can stay the same. Erickson will go easy on the we continue to hate Miami, the 
Before parting, Johnson told Idaho Spuds. team who pounded the Irish 58­his players to beat Notre Dame Miami's schedule also 7 back in 1985 and came to Erickson will apparently remains the same. The represent everything we deplore continue the tradition of Hurricanes open against in a university? Johnson, saying he will Wisconsin, California and Yes. Yes. A 100 times yes. maintain the Miami style of Missouri, three teams with But remember--that was play. combined 1988 records of 9-1000 times yes last year. 
Whether that means just 22-2. Keep in mind, thoug~ 

SEE WHY TRACKS IS #1 LARGEST SELECTION 
LOWEST PRICES ON ALL THE HITS! 
$6.99 TAPE $1 0.99 CD 

PRINCE RICHARD MARK MR. BIG TOM PETTY FINE YOUNG CANNIBALS BEASTIE BOYS THE CULT THE CURE LOVE&ROCKETS BEACHBOYS EXPOSE BAUHAUS THE CALL JEFF HEALEY STARSHIP BADLANDS BILLY SQUIRE 
PLUS 100'S-$7.99 TP $12.99 CD THE ROLLING STONES STEEL WHEELS $7.99 CASSETIE $12.99 CD 
WE HoNoR ALL coUPoNS & ADS 
WEA SUPER SAVERS  PILZ CDS  CLASSICAL  
$9.99  $4.39  
CHOOSE FROM 500  GRT PERFORMANCES  
TITLES BUT HURRY!!  DOD SOUND QUALITY  

MAXELL -FACTORY DIRECT 
XLII100 4 PACK $8.99 XLIIS100 4 PACK $9.99 
-

Thursday, August 31, 1989 The Observer 
page 11 

lightenyour load 
bye mgan 
Even if you're up to your eyebrows in homework, you needn't carry the world on your shoulders." 
Not with a Macintosh® con1puter on vour desk. 
J 
Think of an assignment that weighs heavily on your mind right now-say, a term paper. With Macintosh, you can bring instant order to the jumble of notes, scribhies, quotes, and excerpts that'll go into your paper. You can quickly draft an outline, change the order of topics, and jot down related ideas at will. 
Then vou start to write. You don't like 
J 

the way you phrased a paragraph? No prob­lem -try something new, without erasing or retyping a word. Want to move the second page of your first draft to the tail end of your last draft? It only takes a few seconds. 
With Macintosh, you can also have your parer proofread in a minute or two. And you ca~ illustrate it with professional-looking drawings and graphs, even if you don't know aT-square from aT-bird. 
And here's the clincher: You can learn to do all of these things-all of them-in less time than you might spend studying for a Monday morning quiz. Starting Sunday. 
© J<JHX AfJfJlf Compula Inc. AfJ/Jlf. lhl' AfJ/Jlf loNo ami Macintosh arf reNiStl'rni trademarks '!/Appk Computer. Inc. The pou•er to he your hest ·is a trademark '!/Appk Computer, Inc. 
Ifyou don't believe it, stop by the loca­tion listed below and see Macintosh for your­self. You'll wonder how you ever carried a semester without one. 


The power to be your best:M 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Computing Center, Math Building 
-. 
" 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, August 31, 1989 
Royals gain ground 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Jim Eisenreich doubled twice and Mark Gubicza pitched a four­hitter over seven innings as the Kansas City Royals beat Detroit 6-1 Wednesday night to hand the Tigers their 11th loss in a row. 
Gubicza had his streak of 17 scoreless innings snapped when Detroit scored in the first. He then stopped the Tigers through seven innings, striking out seven and walking two, be­fore Terry Leach finished up. 
The third-place Royals moved within three games of Oakland in the American League West. The Athletics lost 8-5 to New York. 
Tigers starter Doyle Alexan­

.. 
der, 5-16, lost his sixth in a row and is 2-16 with six no-de­cisions in his last 24 games. The Tigers are on their longest losing streak since they lost 19 straight in 1975. Eisenreich has hit in 13 of his last 15 games and 11 of his last 24 hits have gone for extra 
JUST WHEN YOU NEED IT 
The Navy has $30,000 or more to help you finish your last rwo years of college. 
The Naval Rese"·e Officers Training Corps (NROTC) Two­Year Scholarship Program can pay your tuition, textbooks and instructional fees, plus gi\'e you a monthly SlOO La.x-free allowance during your last 20 months of college. 
Upon gr.1duation you'll be commissioned a Navy oflicer and er~oy the benefiL~ and opportunities offered, such as advanced education in any of the Navy's high-tech fields. 
NROTC rwo-year scholarships are highly competitive. Applications must be tumed in early in your sophomore year. For more information, see or call: 
LT Dan Cochran 
239-7274 
NAVY ROTC 
You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 

More people have survived cancer than now live in the City of 
Los Angeles. 
We are winning. 
IAMERICAN 
f.~· 

bases. George Brett had two 
hits for the Royals and has hit 
in seven of his last eight games. 
The Tigers scored in the top of the first, but Kansas City scored twice in the bottom of the inning on Brett's RBI single and a bases-loaded walk by Alexander. 
Brett tripled with two out in the fifth and scored on a double by Bo Jackson. Jackson scored on a double by Eisenreich. 
Jackson reached on an in­field hit in the seventh and scored when Danny Tartabull extended his hitting streak to eight games by doubling over the head of center fielder Gary Pettis. Bob Boone singled in pinch-runner Willie Wilson to make it 6-1 . 
Detroit got its run in the first when Lou Whitaker singled and scored on Fred Lynn's double. 
You can save literally days of work between now and grad­uation. Simply by using an HP calculator. Th keep you from endlessly retracing your steps, ours have built-in shortcuts. Such as the unique HP Solve function for creating your own formulas. Menus, labels and prompts. Program libraries. Algebraic or RPN models. 
01989 Hewlett-Packard Company PGI2905 
Better algorithms and chip design help you finish much faster and more accurately than their way. So, whether you're in engineering, busi­ness, finance, life or social sciences, we've got the best calculator for you. For as little as $49.95. Check it out at your campus bookstore or HP retailer. 
Ourway. 

There is a better way. 
Ffin-HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 

~--~--~-­

Thursday, August 31, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Bear's Douglass says he 
Lions' Hipple gets last chance 
deserves 'a second chance' 
Associated Press 
IRVINE, Calif. (AP} -Lions coach Wayne Fontes dealt full­back James Jones to Seattle on Wednesday and then sent quar­terback Eric Hipple into a tizzy. 
Jones was swapped with Seahawks cornerback Terry Taylor in a deal that was to be completed late Wednesday evening when Taylor passed his physical. Jones, a No. 1 pick in 1983, holds the Lions' single­season receiving record with 77 catches in 1984. 
But he hasn't scored a touch­down in more than two years. Taylor, a No. 1 pick in 1984, has been a four-year starter in Seattle and had a career-high five interceptions last season. However, Taylor is also a two­time loser in the NFL's drug policy. 
He was suspended for 30 days last year and missed the first two games of the season and will be banished from the league if he tests positive again. 
"Terry Taylor has gone through (drug} rehab," Fontes said. "We'll talk to him. He knows he has only one more chance." 
Speaking of last chances, 
Hipple will get one more chance 
to impress the Lions' coaches in 
Detroit's preseason game 
against the Rams on Saturday. 
But Hipple isn't impressed with his opportunity. 
"I didn't get any offensive reps the first week (of presea­son), not many the second week when I played and I haven't gotten any since. Zero," said Hipple, who is getting the op­portunity because Chuck Long won't play and will probably be placed on injured reserve after the 4 7 -man roster is deter­mined, sidelining him for six weeks. 
Long is returning from off­season elbow surgery. Since Fontes is looking for two quar­terbacks to fill three spots, Hipple feels he's at a great dis­advantage. Rusty Hilger and Bob Gagliano have been work­ing regularly with the offense through the preseason. 
"I'll do what I can," Hipple 
said. 'Til try to get ready and I'll do whatever I can with what I've been given. Which is zero." 
Fontes hopes to see Taylor in action Saturday even though his new player won't know much about the defense. 
"We'll send him out there and tell him to cover that guy," Fontes said. The Lions believe Taylor has the speed and man­to-man coverage ability to al­low the defense greater flexibil­ity in blitzing. 
"We just played against him the other night and didn't throw the ball in his area once," Fontes said, adding that Seattle could afford to give up Taylor because the Seahawks are deep and young at corner­back. The trade comes one day after the Lions said they were taking Jones off the trading block. 
In other training camp news Wednesday, the Lions sent starting right tackle Harvey Salem back to Detroit for treatment on his right shoul­der. 
"There won't be any surgery, but they have to check for nerve damage," Fontes said. "Hopefully, we'll have him back for the first game." 

graduate student 
THISWEEKATTHEGRADCLUB 
Thursday, August 31st. 7:00pm. 
Activities night for all graduate students. Representatives from various campus &local organizations will be on hand to present information & answer questions. Come in & sign-up for activities organized by the GSU. For all you couch potatoes the Notre Dame -Virginia Kickoff Classic will be shown and refreshments will be served. 
Friday, September 1st. 8:30pm. 
Graduate Student Union Welcome Party_ Crawl out of your carrels and come show the new grad students how to shake off the summer research blues. Come dance to the tunes of the Grad Club's own OJ. Snacks and beverages are free! 
LAKE FOREST, -Defensive back Maurice Douglass said Wednesday he deserves "a sec­ond chance" with the Chicago Bears after the National Football League suspended him for 30 days for violation of its anabolic steroid guidelines. 
Douglass was one of 13 play­
ers suspended by the NFL on 
Tuesday for steroid use. He will 
be placed on the Bears' reserve 
non-football illness list, but will 
not be paid. 
''I'm going to try to fight this thing," Douglass said. "I want to because, to be honest, I know deep down in my heart that if I had taken steroids and knew I had it in my system then I would have taken some kind of a masking agent to cover it up." 
Douglass said he knew of 
other players who had taken 
steroids but escaped detection 
on drug tests by covering it up. 
Douglass, 25, a fourth-year 
pro from Kentucky, will not be 
able to return to the Bears until 
after the third regular season 
game on Sept. 24 against the 
Detroit Lions. Cornerback 
Lemuel Stimson will start in his 
place on the Bears' nickel de­
fense in Saturday's exhibition 
game against the Los Angeles 
Raiders. 
On March 21, Commissioner 
Pete Rozelle said palyers using 
steroids would be handed the 
same punishment given players 
for illegal drug use -a four 
game suspenison. He also said 
players would be banned if 
traces of "masking agents" for 
steriods turned up in the tests. 

After the suspension was an­nounced, Douglas met Tuesday with Bears personnel director Bill Tobin, team President Mike McCaskey and trainer Fred Caito. 
"He was embarrassed, disap­pointed, upset with himself. And I think he had a lot of thoughts going through his mind," Tobin said. "I think he was genuinely surprised." 
Douglass said he acted in a 
naive manner by taking the banned substance without a doctor's prescription on the advice of a friend who said it would speed the healing of a wrist injury the cornerback suf­fered late last season. 
On Tuesday, Tobin refused to offer any guarantees that Douglass would remain a Bear after his suspension ends. 
"Certainly, there is a chance Mo Douglass won't be here," said Tobin. "There's a chance he will be, also." 
The Bears have taken a tough stance on players who have vio­lated the NFL's substance abuse policy. Last year, fullback Calvin Thomas was traded by the Bears after he was sus­pended after failing a drug test for the second time. 
Douglass admitted he's con­cerned about his future with the Bears. But he said since Thomas was given several chances, "they should give me a second chance." 
"I have never tested positive before for any type of drugs," Douglass said. "And I have never done anything to make this team look bad or put a blemish on this team." 
University Food Services Announces that The Faculty Dining Room is now open Featuring Hot Sandwiches and Entrees Monday -Friday 11 :30 -1:00 p.m. 
~ ~ 
U•l•ll:;::-: :::-:•••tcR ••••-::,::; :::-:•••oc• 
The Legendary Night Oak is now open Monday -Thursday 7:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Friday -Sunday 7:00 p.m. -2:00 a.m. Featuring Late Night Snacks Hamburgers, Cheeseburgers, Nachos, Pizza and Much More! 
Positions Available for Oak Room and Night Oak A I in the Oak Room. 
Open for business. 
The Adworks of 1990 opens its doors tomorrow afternoon. Stop by and see what we have to offer. 
Office hours are 2:30-5:00 Monday-Friday. 
ADW@RKS 
RESUMES • NOVELTIES • ADVERTISING 301 LAFORTUNE CENTER • (219) ADW•ORKS 
-... 
... 
page 14 

Sutton leaves Purdue after bout with homesickness 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON Former University of Kentucky point guard Sean Sutton said Wednesday he had returned home and would sit out the coming season instead of fol­
lowing through  with  a  com­ 
mitment  to  attend  Purdue  
University.  

"I have decided to leave Purdue. return to Lexington Community College, and con­centrate on my studies and basketball skills," Sutton said in a news release. "I will not play collegiate basketball again until next year." 
Sutton's mother, Patsy, said in a telephone interview that 

Sean Sutton 
her son had begun classes at 
the community college and his 
schedule Wednesday wouldn't 
include time to answer ques­
tions about the sudden depar­
ture from Purdue. 
There was nothing in Sutton's statement about what schools he might consider attending next year. 
Sutton, who averaged 5.9 points and Jed Kentucky with 146 assists last season, an­nounced his intention to trans­fer to Purdue on Aug. 3, two months after Rick Pitino was hired as Kentucky's coach. Pitino replaced Sutton's father, Eddie Sutton, who resigned in the wake of an NCAA investiga­tion into the school's basketball program. 
Jim Vruggink, athletics public relations director at Purdue, said Tuesday that Sean Sutton had left the campus for the weekend and had not returned. Vruggink said Sutton had told coaches he didn't know if he was ready to play again "after everything he went through last year." 
Under NCAA regulations, Sutton was allowed to transfer and play immediately without having to sit out a season, be­cause the NCAA's ban on post­season play covered his final two years of eligibility. 
Classes at Purdue began Aug. 
21. Purdue Coach Gene Keady had been told of Sutton's de­parture, Vruggink said. Keady 
has not been at the university, coaching the U.S. entry in the World University Games. 
Sutton made 47.6 percent of his field-goal attempts last year, including 41.9 from 3­point range, and 54.3 percent from the free-throw line. At Purdue, Sutton had been ex­pected to fill a void in the point guard position. 
In his statement, Sutton said he did not regret his choice of 

·' 
~need somoone with theron6denceofa~ 
thededicationof 
amarathonerand the 
rourageofanexplorer. 
'M: need 1 Pt.:c Cotp\ 'tolunftr Call Ullll·800-424-8580, Ext. 9t 
PeaceCorps.
......,..,.,..,_.... 

Purdue but he did not want to 
attend because of "the emo­
tional strain I've been under." 
Sutton said he alone had de­cided to leave the Indiana school but his family was sup­portive of his action. He said he respected Keady and his staff and thanked them for their in­terest. 
"This year has been extremely emotional for me," Sutton said. "Only someone who has experienced something similar can relate to this. At times it has felt like a continuous nightmare." 
He said when he decided to transfer from Kentucky to Purdue, he thought all the problems had been put behind him. But he had reconsidered the decision during the past few weeks. 
Before deciding to attend Purdue, Sutton had said he also was considering going to Arizona State and Michigan. 
Vruggink said he speculated that homesickness might have caused Sutton to leave. Sutton was away from home for the first time and had a difficult time finding an apartment on or near the crowded campus, Vruggink said. 
Sutton was living alone in apartment conplex that did not have many students, Vruggink said. 
"Everybody here was excited about Sean coming here," Vruggink said. "He was seen as the missing link. We definitely lacked a point guard last sea­son. We needed someone to run the offense and handle the ball, things Sean can do." 
The Boilermakers lost eight games by four points or less last season. The Purdue squad had a 15-16 record, the school's first losing season in 23 years. 
"This will just make every­thing much more simple," Patsy Sutton said, adding that the family was "very supportive" of the decision. 
Eddie Sutton originally had tried to persuade his son to take a "red shirt" year instead of transferring anywhere im­mediately, Mrs. Sutton said. She said she understood her son would retain two years of playing eligibility. 
The elder Sutton has said he may decide next spring whether to return to coaching. 
The Observer 
SpORTS BRIEFS 
The Observer Sports Department will hold a meeting for all returning sportswriters Tuesday. Sept.5, and a second meeting for new sportswriters Wednesday, Sept. 6. Both meetings will be at 8 p.m .. Meet at The Observer office, third floor LaFortune Questions call Theresa Kelly at 239-5303. -Th; Observer 
Bubba Cunningham has been named the Notre Dame Athletic Department's associate business manager. In addition to continuing his duties as ticket manager, he will also oversee the department's expanding marketing and merchandising efforts. Cunningham replaces Mike Bobinski, who left Notre Dame to become business manager at Navy.--The Observer 
The Handball Club is forming now and looking for new members. If you are interested in a challenging, physically demanding endurance sport, call Mike at 239-7735 or 239­7736. -The Observer 
The ND wrestling team is holding an informational meeting for those students wish­ing to be walk-ons Monday at 4:30 p.m. in Coach Fran McCann's office on the second floor of the Joyce ACC behind the Monogram Room. Any questions should be directed to Coach McCann's office at 239-6167.-The Observer 
The Notre Dame sports information department was recognized as having the best football programs among Division 1A schools in the nation for the 1988 season, the College Sports Information Directors of America announced.-The Observer 
Thursday, August 31, 1989 

. • 6 
SEc­
Df'vc­



Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
r****************************
SENIOR PORTRAITS!!! 
YOU'VE GOT THE TAN­
WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR??!!! 
sign-ups for all SENIOR PORTRAITS will be held TUES., WED.,THURS., and FRI. of THIS WEEK in both NORTH and SOUTH DINING HALLS during all LUNCHES and DINNERS!!I 
Sittings will be in Room 108 of LaFortune Student Center beginning on 
Monday, Sept. 4, at 10:00 a.m. and will continue through Friday, Sep­
tember22. 
Smile-while you still have that golden summer tan!!! 
**************************** 


Thursday, August 31, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CROSSWORD
THE FAR SIDE By GARY lARSON 
ACROSS 29 Carry on 54 Gilligan's home: 30 Quantico fig. Abbr.
1 Horrify 33 Excuuuse him for 
55 "-Send Me,"6Theold­
Sam Cooke hit in

doing "Roxanne" 
(lreland) 1957
37 Pay or plug ender9lmplied 56 Louis, par 14 Peron's power exemple
38 Joker
base 

57-apso,
16 Berlin's "All 39 Soak flax Tibetan canine 
40 Result of a 
60 Plead 17 "Maude" spinoff ribbing? 
persistently 18 Do the monkey 41 "Bonanza" ac,t6r 
63"Hard-," 19 Eastern cape 44 Member of the 1955 song 20 Brian of the 64 On a seesaw
PO. Talking Heads 45 Siouan 
65 ABBA member 21 Scale extreme 46 Backward poem 66 Rds.' kin 
22 French marshal from Tokyo? 67 Punjabi princess 23 Goes tearing 47 Bracelet's along? bailiwick DOWN
26 Valleys 48 T artu natives 
28 Eng. course 51 Balls of fire? 1 "Cosmos" host 2 Hag 3 Defeated one's 
feeling?

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Part of ROY G. BIV 5 Key on P.C. keyboards 6 Stowe baddie 

25 Categorizes 35 Boys, later 52 Gallic 7 Half of eleven? 
housemaid26 Grid that sounds 36 Court divider 8 "-Kapital" 

terrific 53 Prolonged 9 A son of Lincoln 
42 Refusals attack
27 Household god10-Dag, 43 Norton and 58 But, to Claudius 
30 Little office 

Turkish mountain Koch 
59 Downed 11 Happy seeker 47 Collapses doughnuts31 Nightclub12 Carrot on a 
60"­

offering 49 Something anstick, e.g. 
De-Lovely,"owl gives 

32 Gristle students 33 Heart leader 50 Less doubtful 
13 High-school 1936 hit 
61 Lincoln Ctr. 15 Part of a harrow 34 Make someone 51 Bobby Orr was attraction 
24 Cato's 504 feel put out? one 62 Refrain syllable 



COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOSBES 
BILL WATIERSON 'The Far Side GARY LARSON 



WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 
"Hello, Emily. This is Gladys Murphy up the street. Fine, thanks .... Say, could you go to your window and describe what's in my front yard?" 
Couldn't quite make the road trip to the lovely state of New Jersey? We'll bring the action to you ­
I[fl~~o({J)fjfj cn~~~u~ 
Viewing on Large Screens North Quad 7:00 


Also, be sure to catch Boathouse Blues on Thursday from 5 to 7 on the Fieldhouse Mall. 


-~ ~--------~---­
Sports
Eage 16 Thursdal: August 31, 1989 

Rice downplays Heisman talk to prepare Irish for Kickoff Classic 
Associated Press team win. Individual awards Steve Walsh, Rodney Peete and don't mean anything if the team Major Harris got most of the 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­doesn't do well." pregame attention. After the Notre Dame's top dog is scared Notre Dame, No. 2 in the games, Rice was the hot topic. of cats. rankings, is expected to do well "He's not a good athlete 
Quarterback Tony Rice, who this season despite losing seven playing quarterback. He's a led the Fighting Irish to the projected starters or backups good quarterback, period," national championship last in the last month because of Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz season, isn't afraid of anyone injuries, rules violations, poor said. "He can run, he can pass on the football field. It's felines grades and other problems. and he can lead." that he fears. "A lot of things have Just how valuable is Rice? 
"I hope Virginia doesn't bring happened to us lately. but I "Let me put it this way," a cat onto the field," Rice said think we can overcome it," Rice Holtz said. "I don't think there of Notre Dame's opponent in said. "We had a team meeting are too many insurance Thursday night's Kickoff last night and I said, 'No companies who would sell me a Classic at Giants Stadium, the matter what happens, we've got policy that would cover his opener of the college football to stick together."' worth to Notre Dame." season. Rice has been through tough 
"I hate cats. If they put one times before at Notre Dame. If Rice has another banner next to the ball, I'll probably The South Carolina native season, he'll be worth a lot to run off the field." had to sit out his freshman an NFL team. 
Running is Rice's specialty, year because his SAT scores fell ''I'm not worried about that but he's also a potent passer. just below the NCAA minimum. now," Rice said. "If I have my That's why the 6-foot-1, 200-Then he had to listen to critics day in the pros, I have my day. pound senior is on almost every who said he was a runner Right now. I just want to get preseason list of Heisman masquerading as a through my senior year of Trophy contenders. quarterback. college." 
Notre Dame has produced Last year, Rice was the Finishing school and getting .•._ ,. seven Heisman winners, more team's leading rusher with 700 his degree in psychology is as . ; ' than any other school. The last yards. But he also proved he important to Rice as winning 
File Photo 
Quarterback Tony Rice (9) says the only thing on the football field that would scare him is cats. Rice, who was the leading rusher for the Irish last year, is looking to lead Notre Dame to a seond national championship this season. Story at right. 
Irish football fans may still be hating Miami in '89 
Fall is the season of change across the United States. Leaves turn colors and fall, corn stalks shrink to nothing and school begins new sessions. 
But most of all, fall signals new life for college football. Hope springs eternal with new players, new schedules and, in some cases, new coaches. And these changes are not lim­ited to the likes of Wisconsin and Northwestern, trying to carve themselves out of the Big Ten cellar. 
For the most noticeable example of this change, turn for a moment to south Florida to the team of the 1980s, the Miami Hurricanes. Miami is a program in transition, a team with new players, a new coach and possibly a new style. 
Since this year's Notre Dame-Miami game isn't until Thanksgiving, it might be too early to hate even the Hurricanes. But the real question may be: Should we even hate Miami at all? 
Greg Guffey 
Assistant Sports Editor 


Jimmy Johnson, the man who brought on a majority of the hatred for Miami, joined the pros with the Dallas Cowboys. It didn't set in until that first game when Johnson was on the sideline calling the shots for America's team, a some­what ironic sentence in itself. 
Steve Walsh, who would have been a natural pre-season Heisman Trophy choice, defected to the pros and found him­s~lf with Johnson and the Cowboys. Come September, he may wtsh he could play against California rather than chart the passes of Cowboy quarterback and first-round draft choice Troy Aikman. Walsh led Miami to the national title in 1987 but took the pro money rather than try for two. 
Miami Athletic Director Sam Jankovich searched the country for Johnson's successor and and ended it at the football powerhouse of Washington State. He rescued Dennis Erickson from beatings at the hands of USC and UCLA and brought him to the sun, heat and big-time pres­sure of Miami. 
Erickson coached at Idaho, Wyoming and Washington State, compiling a career record of 50-31-1. It's hard to hate a guy who was 6-5 in 1984 at Idaho, losing to Nevada~ Reno and Montana State along the way. Johnson took most of his coaches to Dallas, and Erickson brought most of his coaches with him from Washington State. 
The Hurricanes lost a total of 10 starters from last year's1! -1 squ~d th~t won the Orange Bowl. Erickson will let ju­niOr Cratg Enckson, no relation, direct the team at the q~art~rback spot. If the personnel changes aren't enough, Mtamt has answered critics by increasing its graduation rate of football players over the past few years. 
There have even been goodwill gestures between Notre Dame and Miami administrators. During the summer, Notre 
see MIAMI I page 10 
one was Tim Brown in 1987. can pass, throwing for 1,176 another national championship. "It would be a great honor to yards and eight touchdowns. By attending summer school win it, but it's not something I When Notre Dame played each year. Rice has remained worry about," Rice said. "I just Miami, Southern California and on course to graduate with his 
want to go out and help the West Virginia, quarterbacks class. 

Associated Press "Balls were flying out of homer to make it 5-2. 
here," Scott said. "This was a In the fifth, Young singled 
strange series, I'm glad its home two runs put Houston CHICAGO-Mike Scott had a over." ahead 7-2. hard time not thinking about Gerald Young had four hits, Houston's great collapse. three RBis and scored a run "Yesterday was a living
Scott pitched a four-hitter for and Rafael Ramirez, who had nightmare," said Young, a .372 
his 18th victory. tying the seven RBis on Tuesday, added lifetime hitter against the Cubs. major-league high, and added a three hits and scored twice. "Some guys hit better againstrun-scoring single as the Scott, 18-7, had failed in four certain clubs and I just hit Astros rebounded for an 8-4 previous attempts to match his better against the Cubs." victory over the Chicago Cubs career high of 18 victories. on Wednesday night. Oakland's Dave Stewart and St. Glenn Wilson's sacrifice fly
On Tuesday. the Astros blew Louis' Joe Magrane also have scored Young to give the Astros a 9-0 lead and lost to the Cubs won 18 each. a 1-0 lead off Rick Sutcliffe, 13­10-9. "We showed some offense 11, in the first inning. Smith 
"I didn't feel safe until the against an outstandinl! tied it with his eighth homer, a last out," Scott said. "It was pitcher," Grace said. "But he towering drive to right in the hard to forget yesterday." was too tough for us. He didn't bottom of the inning.
Scott gave up home runs to win 18 games for nothing." Houston went ahead 2-1 in Dwight Smith in the first Leading 2-1, the Astros got 
the third on Bill Doran's double 
inning, Ryne Sandberg. in the consecutive RBI singles by Alex and Kevin Bass' RBI single.fourth and a two-run shot to Trevino, Scott and Young in the Harry Spilman added an RBI 
Mark Grace in the ninth. He fourth inning to take a 5-1 double in the ninth to make it finished with nine strikeouts lead. 8-2. Grace hit his 13th homer and one walk for his eighth Sandberg hit Scott's first with a man on in the bottom of 
complete game. pitch in the fourth for his 26th the inning. 


