---~--------~ ---------­

VOL. XXIII NO. 29 
Twist and shout 
By MARIA MILANO Staff Reporter 
"The film 'The Last Tempta­tion of Christ' is controversial not because of the issue with which it deals but what makes it controversial is the violence which it does to the representa­tion of Christ," Communications Professor James Collins said at a debate on the film Wednesday night. 
"The representation of Christ which we have seen in the past is one based on the Renaissance tradition of Christ, a represen­tation of one who quotes Scrip· ture," Collins continued. 
Collins said, "There is an unusual system [in the film] in which the whole resistance and doubt are seen. We see Christ's tension about himself, and ten­sion about his message that has never been depicted in film 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Auburn prof discusses date rape Wednesday 

These students contort their bodies playing Twister in a contest in Angela Athletic facility as part of 
whereas, the word 'rape' con­
Saint Mary's Fall Fest. Kristen Tines and Maggie Killian (not pictured) were the winners. 
jures up opposite feelings of vi-
Intellectual Life Committee considers year's goals 
By COLLEEN MALLOY News Staff 
With the hopes of fostering a greater intellectual envi­ronment at Notre Dame, the Intellectual Life Committee met Wednesday for the first time this year. The commit­tee, consisting of students, faculty, and administrators, focused its attention on the further development of the Hall Fellows program. 
The Hall Fellows program works to enhance the inter· action between students and faculty. Referring specifi­cally to Pasquerilla East and St. Edward's Hall. committee members noted the accomplishments of the Hall Fellows program in some dorms. 
The committee wishes to institutionalize the program so that all dorms will be able to achieve similar success. said Ken Scheve. student government academic com­missioner. He added that there is a need to "gather and distribute information on what kind of events have worked to stimulate intellec­tual life and make student­faculty relations better." 

The committee is concen* trating on three main goals for this year. First, It will evaluate the recommenda­tions of past committees and monitor the responses that have followed. Second, it will formulate practical methods to improve the pre· sent intellectual conditions. 
Chairman Nick Rossi de· scribed the third goal as one to "provide vision through open debate about the best courses to take to further 
see LIFE I page 4 



Panel debates the film 'The Last Temptation of Christ' 
By MAGGIE MCCLOSKEY Staff Reporter 
Acquaintance rape and "Crossed Signals on a Saturday Night: Straight Talk About Dating" were the topics of a lecture given Wednesday night by Barry Burkhart of Auburn University. 
Burkhart opened his talk by explaining the difficulty found in discussing acquaintance rape because the topic does not lend itself to clear communica­tion. 
Opposing images of the word 'date' and the word 'rape' also complicate a universal under­standing of date rape, Burkhart said. 
Burkhart claimed that the

The Observer/ Lynn Pfeffer 
word 'date' has relatively pleasant connotations; 
Theology department said that the film was "not a narrative but more of a burning image that stays in ones mind and helps one feel what Jesus has gone through." 
Professor Mark Pilkinton of the Communications and The­ater department stated, "the actual temptation of Christ was a real temptation. In the desert Jesus' temptation almost got the better of him." 
Pilkinton said that he was pleased to see a real Christ who could be genuinely tempted and who over came the temptation. 
The sexual nature of Jesus portrayed in the movie was also discussed. Sister O'Neill stated that "sexual mores are the same to the Catholic tradition as dietary restriction are to the Jewish tradition. Speaking of sexuality of Christ strikes olence, aggression, fear, and harm. 
"When you put the word 'date' and the word 'rape' together, they don't overlap, they don't match. It's very often the case that people will not talk about date rape." 
Studies at Auburn and a num­ber of other universities have shown that a woman is so times more likely to be raped by someone she knows than by a stranger. Between the ages of 15-25, 15-20% of all women will have at least one instance of forced sexual intercourse. 
In order to determine the causes of the prevalence of ac­quaintance rape, Burkhart questioned why men and women encounter harm as the outcome of a relationship. 
Burkhart said, "One of the 
see DATE I page 5 



Noriega blames revolt on U.S. 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama ­Troops patrolled the city's lightly traveled streets Wednes­day and U.S. helicopters watched from overhead on the day after rebel soldiers tried in vain to overthrow Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. 
'The gringo piranhas want to do away with me," the general, who commands the military and controls the government, said during a brief tour of the street outside Panamanian De­fense Forces headquarters. 
He blames the revolt on the United States, which has tried to oust him for nearly two years. The Bush administration denied involvement. 
Spokesmen for Noriega said some of the rebels took refuge at U.S. Southern Command headquarters in Quarry Heights. Southern Command spokesmen would not come to the telephone and no comment 
was available from the U.S. 
Embassy. 
Newspapers reported six people killed in the coup at­tempt Tuesday morning. 
Maj. Edgardo Lopez, an aide to Noriega, would not confirm casualty figures or reports that Maj. Moises Giroldi Vega, the Urraca commander and coup leader, was among the dead. He said at least 60 soldiers and four or five officers were ar­rested. 
Every few minutes, heli­copters of the U.S. Southern Command circled over the perimeters of Quarry Heights and Fort Amador. The two U.S. bases at the western edge of Panama City are a few hundred yards from the Panamanian headquarters, where the coup was attempted. 
At the headquarters on VVednesday, loyal troopers in T­shirts and baseball caps re­paired shattered windows and painted and patched the walls. 
Traffic moved along the streets nearby, but vehicles were not permitted to stop. 
Many Panamanians chose to stay home Wednesday and U.S. bases were shut under condi­tion Delta, which restricts movement of personnel. About 12,000 American soldiers are stationed in Panama. 
The uprising "aggravated the Panamanian crisis in every di­mension and makes it more dangerous," opposition leader Ricardo Arias Calderon told a midday news conference. He said the military regime "is di­vided against itself and rejected by the great majority of the people." 
Civilian opponents of Noriega have denied involvement. The United States has supported the opposition's efforts against the general, who was indicted in the United States on drug charges in 1988, and has im­posed economic sanctions in an attempt drive him out. 

Traffic accident 

before." 
Two cars collide at Edison and Juniper Wednesday afternoon. 
see MOVIE/ page 3 
Sister Mary O'Neill of the 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, October 5, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 


Restaurant work is not all 
Members of the Irish Republican Army on Wednesday shot and killed a Roman Catholic after mistaking him for a Protestant gunman, police in Belfast said. The victim, 52-year-old 

peaches and cream 
James Henry Babbington, was shot point-blank by two men 
outside a primary school. the Royal Ulster Constabulary said. In a statement to local news media, the predominantly Catholic IRA claimed it killed a gunman who was involved in several attacks against IRA members. The IRA statement gave a name of the purported victim, but it was not Babbington. "The victim was an entirely innocent man who was on his way to work," the Constabulary said in a statement late Wednesday. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
The Coast Guard seized a ship carrying 11,500 pounds of cocaine -the largest maritime cocaine seizure in history, Coast Guard officials said Wednesday. The Zedom Sea, a 185-foot off­shore supply vessel reportedly headed from Colombia but flying the Panamanian flag, is being escorted to New Orleans, said Rear Adm. William Merlin. Nine people aboard were arrested and will be turned over to the Drug Enforcement Administration, he said. "We are not sure we have found all the cocaine," Merlin said at a news conference at regional Coast Guard headquarters here. "We arc turning it over to Customs." 
A crippled B-1 B bomber refueled over Texas and flew halfway across the continent Wednesday for an emergency landing on the dry lake bed where the space shuttle lands. The $280 million aircraft, unable to unlock its nose landing gear, was ex­pected to touch down on the 44-square-mile Rogers Dry Lake about 5 p.m., said base spokeswoman Dottie Spiegelberg. The air­craft. flying out of Dyess Air Force Base in Texas, wasn't carrying bombs. "There are no nuclear weapons." said Lt. Anu Sjaardema, an Edwards public affairs spokeswoman. 
The odds of getting an AIDS infection from a typical blood transfusion were just 1-in-28,000 two years ago, and the risk is dropping more than 30 percent a year as fewer AIDS carri­ers are donating blood, a study says. "The blood supply is proba­bly safer now than it has ever been," concludes the study, con­ducted by the American Red Cross. However, another report cau­tions that some people at high risk of the disease still give blood despite appeals to refrain, and blood banks should try harder to persuade them not to donate. 
Plumbers and toilet makers told a Senate panel in Washington Wednesday the American public won't sit still for Sen. Wyche Fowler's plan to reduce by more than half the af!lount _of water used in each flush. "When the amount of water IS cut m half. there is reason to doubt whether the system will operate properly," said George Bliss, assistant _director of training for the United Association of Plumbers and P1pefitters. 
A man was awakened when a stranger jumped into his bed in his home in St. Paul, Minnesota and police followed to yank the intruder out. "Basically, I think the guy was just trying to hide," said Officer Tim McCarty. The man did not know the people in the house, authorities said. The woman who owns the house said the stranger ran through several rooms before charging up a staircase and into her 20-year-old son's room. The startled resi­dent looked on as police pulled the man out of bed. The man was arrested on a charge of burglary because he entered the home without permission, McCarty said. 
WEATHER 

Cloudy and warm 
Increasing cloudiness and warmer today with a 40 percent chance of late afternoon showers. Highs in the middle 60s. A 60 percent chance of rain tonight. Lows in the lower 50s. Partly cloudy tomorrow with highs from 60 to 65. 
ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE On October 5: Clo•Ing• for October 4, 11189 
e In 1762: The British occu­If you want to retain respect for your fellow 
human beings, never, never work in a 
restaurant. 
I worked for about a year and a half at a place called Friendly's, sort of a cross between a Denny's and a Dairy Queen. I went in young and innocent, eager to do my best to serve the customer. I left a distorted, bitter misanthrope, thirsting for vengeance, wanting to hurt and maim those who had wronged me. 
I am firmly convinced that people undergo a complete attitude. change when they enter a restaurant. Somebody may normally be an upright, decent citizen. It doesn't make any difference. As soon as they enter a restaurant, they become cruel, domineering tyrants, treating the staff as if they were chattels. 
When we were waiting to close, for example, there would inevitably be two people holding us up , sitting over a single cup of coffee each for a half-hour. 
We had ways to subtly give the hint, "Leave NOW!!" 
The gate at the front of the store would lowered halfway. We would shut off all the lights in the place except the section they were sitting in. The rest of the tables would be cleaned off and set up for the next day. 
If this didn't work, the entire staff would stand and pathetically stare at the offenders, trying to look as pitiable as possible. The dishboy would go up to them and say, "Excuse me, ma'am, but are you done with that fork and plate? I have nothing else to do right now, so I'd like to wash them." 
Even this didn't work. They would just keep on sitting over their coffee, saying things like, "Gee, Matilda, remember that time when I got 20 percent off that purple flower print at Bloomingdale's?" 
Almost as bad as this was having to serve the take-out line. The price of ice cream cones was raised from 96 cents to $1.01, but people weren't used to it yet, and so they would give me a dollar for their cone. 
''I'm sorry, but I need one more cent," I'd say. 
"Oh, okay," they'd reply, and proceed to give me a $50 bill, so I'd have to make $48.99 in change. 
People have been trained since childhood to treat restaurant employees like pond scum. Once, when I was serving take-out, a seven­year-old girl was having a birthday party. She could have gotten something to go at the table, but that was too easy. 
Instead, she went to the take-out line. There 
OF INTEREST 
The Fourth Annual Multi-Cultural Fall Festival continues this week from 12:00 to 1:00 
p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. Notre Dame ethnic organizations share their culture as part of "Culture on the Quad." Ethnic music and danc­ing follows at 4:30 p.m .. 
Experience a taste of Germany when German Club has a booth with german beer and pastries on Thursday, from 12:00 to 1:00 p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. 
The Black Culture Arts Council will have a general meeting at 7:00 p.m. in Mont­gomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. In­formation regarding our show "Black Images" will be discussed. 
Model UN will meet at 7:00p.m. in Room 220 Hayes-Healy Building. New members should come at 6:30 p.m. to sign up for countries. 

'People undergo a complete attitude change when they enter a restaurant.' 
Tim O'Keefe Assistant News Editor 

were nine people in line in front of her, but she pushed her way to the counter, shoved her grubby little face forward and announced in an obnoxious, nasal voice, "I want ice cream!" 
"I'm sorry," I said (even though I wasn't), "but you'll have to wait until I serve the people in front of you." 
"NO!" she screamed. "It's MY BIHTHDAY and 
I want ICE CREAM!!" 
Her mother was standing behind her the entire time, with a small, approving smile upon her face. "I must be bringing my daughter up right. She's learning how to be a demanding, rude, thoughtless customer. I'm so proud!" 
Kids weren't the worst customers, though. What we all dreaded at Friendly's was the invasion from the Old Folks' Home. A typical order would go something like this: 
"Give me a a grilled cheese sandwich, with one slice of wheat and one slice of white. Don't use too much butter cooking it -.about half a pat. And use Swiss and Provolone cheese -no American." 
Or they would get a: hamburger, eat all of it except one bite, and then complain, "This is undercooked. I want a refund." 
Even leaving the restaurant they would get in their licks. 
They would whine at the cashier, "The bill says the coffee costs 50 cents, but I only drank half a cup. I should only have to pay 25 cents!" 
And the people who sat at the counter! I could tell you some stories ... 
(This column appeared in The Observer on March 28, 1988.) 
Tim O'Keefe is a senior philosophy major. The opinion expressed in the Inside column belongs to the author and is not necessarily that of The Observer. 
The Student-Alumni Relations Board 
will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Sorin Room, LaFortune Student Center. SARG works with the Alumni Association to bring stu­dents and Alumni of Notre Dame closer to­gether through lectures, career days, and other programs. 
The Coalition Newsletter needs re­porters, writers, layout and copy staff. Our first organizational meeting to start work on the November newsletter is at 7:00 p.m. in the CSC coffeeroom. Bring pencil and paper. 
St. Edward's Hall Forum, a series of lively debates, will continue tonight at 7:00 p.m. with Economics Professor Thomas Swartz re­sponding to "Does America Have a Place in the International Marketplace?" All are invited. 
pied Manilla during their war with Spain. e In 1892: Emmet Dalton ex­cepted, the entire Dalton Gang was killed during an attempted bank robbery. e In 1908: Bulgaria declared its independence from the Ot­toman Empire. e In 1910: The Portuguese Republic was proclaimed and a provisional government was organized under Dr. Theophilo Braga. e In 1947: Nine European na­tions formed the Cominform. e In 1953: The New York Yankees won their fifth consec­utive World Series. 
lnformat1on compiled from ObservE'• wues and Observer staff reports 

Volume in shares 
221 ,508,41 0 
NYSE Index 
196.84 t-1.94 S&P Composite 4. _ 354.71 v 3 84 Dow Jones Industrials 
2,754.56 i'-40.84 
Precious Metals Gold t-$0.1 oto $371 .50 1oz. 
Silver it 2.8¢ to $5.328 I oz. 
Source: AP 
---"'='-e-Obse.--&~Y~'-­
-=-.l-=11 -. -~~r---·
---. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
Design Editor ............... Tricia Grohman Design Assltant ........... Kristin Costello Typesetters ................... Molly Schwartz ...................................................... Dan Towers News Editor ........................... Greg Lucas News Copy Editor............ Sarah Voigt Sports Copy Editors Molly Mahoney .....:................................................Mary Garino VIewpoint Editor........ Christine Walsh VIewpoint Copy Editor .......................... . ................................................. Janice O'Leary VIewpoint Layout... .......... Katie Foster Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor ..........Terri Walsh 

Accent Designer ............. Alison Cocks Typists ............................Erin Schirtzinger NO Day Editor ............... Colleen Malloy The Observer IUSPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except Photographer....... Andrew McCloskey dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer is published by students of the Ads Designers ........... Shannon Roach Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame and Sa1nl Mary"s College Subscnptions may be pur ..................................................Jeanne Naylor chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer ......................................................Sheila Jones The Observer IS a member of The Assoctaled Press All reproduCtiOn nghts Business Editor .................. Liz Panzica are reserved Business Copy Editors .......................... ................................................Lauren Deluca ..........................................................Mike Kolar 
Thursday, October 5, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Three Killed as Air Force plane explodes 
Associated Press  fred Taft of Urbana, N.Y.; and  
the boom operator, Airman 1st  
PERTH-ANDOVER, New  Class Jack Cupp of Athens,  
Brunswick -Three crew mem­ Tenn.  
bers aboard an Air Force KC- The bodies were charred and  
135A tanker were killed and the  it was not clear which of the  
fourth was feared dead  men was missing, but it was  
Wednesday after the plane ex­ not believed that there were any  
ploded in the air as it returned  survivors, said Rebscher.  
to Loring Air Force Base in  No civilian injuries were re­ 
northern Maine from a refuel­ ported. Efforts to locate the  
ing mission, authorities said.  missing man continued eight  
A panel of military and civil­ hours after the explosion,  
ian officials was being assem­ which lit up the predawn sky  
bled in an attempt to determine  and started a fire in the woods.  
what caused the four-engine jet  Witnesses compared the explo­ 
to blow up and crash in the  sion to an earthquake.  
woods in this border town, Air  "It was unbelievable," said  
Force officials said.  Perth-Andover resident Paul  
"Three bodies have been re­ McNally. 'Tve never seen any­ 
covered. but not the fourth,"  thing like it -it was like fire­ 
said Capt. Kellie Rebscher at  works."  
Loring, a sprawling bomber  
base in Limestone less than 20  "The noise! My whole house  
miles from the crash site. She  shook -windows and every­ 
said officials were not speculat­ thing," said Anita Davenport,  
ing on what may have caused  who lives near the crash site.  
the crash.  
The spokeswoman identified  Rebscher confirmed that the  
the crew members as the pilot,  plane exploded in the air and  
Lt. Col. William Northcutt of  tat it was not equipped with a  
Oklahoma City; the co-pilot, 1st  "black box" that could have  
Lt. Robert Weinman of Milwau­ recorded crew members' final  
kne; the navigator. 2nd Lt. AI- words.  

N.J. superintendent takes control of urban district 


The Observer/ L..A. Scott

Learning to read 
Senior Eric Ehrensing stares intently as he gropes to understand his own notes. Ehrensing enjoys the sunlight in front of O'Shaughnessy Hall Wednesday. 
'Night Stalker' sentenced to death 
Associated Press  never see Disneyland again," deserving of our sympathy and  
lawyer Ray Clark had said. should not have their lives  
The judge thanked the jurors taken in the streets, in the  
LOS ANGELES -A jury  profusely for the year they had courts or in the gas chamber,"  
recommended Wednesday that  spent on the case. ''I'm very said defense attorney Daniel  
convicted "Night Stalker"  proud of you," he told them. "I Hernandez, adding he does not  
Richard Ramirez die in the gas  know you had a tough time of think Ramirez wants to die.  
chamber, and the devil-wor­ it. ... It was a very emotionally "There's no punishment that  
shiping serial killer snarled:  charged case. I want to thank could fit this crime," Judi  
"Big deal, death always went  you for the public. God bless Arnold, daughter of Night  
with the territory, see you in  you." Stalker victims Maxon and Lela  
Disneyland."  "I have nightmares all the Kneiding, said tearfully after  
Ramirez, convicted of 13 sav­ time about the crimes," said the verdicts. She said Ramirez  
age murders, rocked in his  juror Cynthia Haden. 'Til get should die.  
chair and peered around at  over it, but I'll never be the "I have to live the rest of my  
courtroom spectators seated  same. I'll never look at people life seeing my parents (as mur­ 
behind him as Superior Court  the same." der victims) and what Mr.  
Judge Michael Tynan read  "How are you going to return Ramirez did to them."  
aloud the jury's recommenda­ to a normal life after going  
tions, count by count.  through something like this?" Jurors ruled Sept. 20 that the  
Jurors found Ramirez de­ asked another juror, Bonita 29-year-old native of El Paso,  
served the death penalty on 19  Smith. Texas, was the demonic killer  
special circumstances attached  The jury's deliberations who broke into homes through  
to felony convictions that in­ lasted five days in the death unlocked windows and doors in  
cluded multiple murders, bur­ penalty phase of the trial. The the summer of 1985.  
glary and sex crimes.  jurors did not look at Ramirez  
State law requires a separate  as the word "death" was pro­As the pattern of satanic  
jury finding of special circum­ nounced 19 times by Tynan, but crimes unfolded, investigators  
stances before the death  they answered in firm voices, found men murdered in their  
penalty can be imposed. As of  "Yes, your honor," when the · beds, and women raped and  
Oct. 2, there were 265 inmates  judge polled them individually. beaten as the assailant de­ 
on death row in California.  Juror Alfredo Carrillo said manded money and jewels.  
Tynan will consider the jury's  there was little dissension Ramirez was convicted of 13  
recommendations before he  among jurors over whether to murders and 30 related felonies  
formally sentences Ramirez on  recommend the death penalty. ranging from rape and sodomy  
Nov. 7. The facts of the case,  The panel took its time simply to burglary. In one murder, a  
however, made it unlikely the  because there were so many victim's eyes were gouged out.  
judge would reduce the sentence  counts. In another, a woman was raped  
to life in prison without the  "It took a lot of thinking," he beside the body of her mur­ 
possibility of parole, the only  said. He added about Ramirez, dm;ed husband.  
other possible sentence.  "I think he's a pretty crazy  
Under California law, the  man." Satanic symbols were left at  
death sentence will be automat­ "He got what he deserved," some murder scenes and some  
ically appealed.  said Deputy District Attorney P. victims were forced to "swear  
Ramirez made no comment in  Philip Halpin, who had urged to Satan" by the killer,  
the courtroom but uttered his  the death penalty, describing held Southern California in  
"Disneyland" remark to re­ Ramirez to the jury as "a mis-· grip of terror during his ram­ 
porters while being taken back  erable human being" who killed page. At a preliminary hearing  
to jail. He apparently was re­ for self-gratification. Defense Ramirez held up a hand in­ 
ferring to his lawyer's con­ attorney Ray Clark had pleaded scribed with a pentagram,  
tention to the jury that life in  for mercy. symbol of devil worship, and  
prison was sufficient. "He ~ill  "I think all human beings are said, "Hail Satan."  
USED  Movie  



GOLF CLUB SALE 
$2.00 PER CLUB NOTREDAMEGOLFSHOP 
IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
THROUGH SUNDAy October8 
who a 
a 
continued from page 1 
something deep inside of Chris­tians." 
"We are all challenged to live to our full potential. We have to make tough decisions in our life. The Christ of this movie is seen as also being faced by these tough decisions," Pilkinton said. 
The panel agreed that the movie should have been shown on campus. Sister O'Neill said, "I hope that there will be many more films of this type made that meditate on the life of Christ and dare to expose a dif­ferent view to the world. n 

...------------------------~-----------~­
page 4 

Propane (CH3CH2CH3) may be automotive fuel of future 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Amid the morning rush of commuters, the white Ford Taurus blended well with the hundreds of other cars on Washington's traffic­clogged six-lane Beltway. 
But as the sedan passed an 18-wheeler at 60 miles an hour, the driver flicked a switch just below the dashboard and the Taurus became like no other car on the busy highway. 
It was now running on propane instead of gasoline. 
As Congress moves toward enacting tougher laws to com­bat urban pollution and other environmental concerns, includ­ing global warming, the word is out: The 1990s may well be­come the decade in which the alternative-fuel automobile with its fewer pollutants will chal­lenges the conventional gaso-



Life 
continued from page 1 
enhance Notre Dame's intel­lectual atmosphere." 
Changes have occurred as a result of the Intellectual Life Committee's work, said Rossi. For example, the committee emphasized the need for non­classroom space for student­faculty interactions. 
Many of the new buildings have been designed to include such gathering areas. Looking toward the new school year, the members highlighted the need to obtain even more concrete responses to their recommendations. 
Student government Pres­line-powered car. 

President Bush has proposed legislation calling for a phase­in of thousands of alternative­fuel vehicles beginning in 1995 and for production of at least 1 million such cars a year by 1997 in urban areas with the worst smog. 
William Reilly, head of the Environmental Protection Agency, says there is no other way to attain a significant re­duction in urban smog and still acknowledge Americans' love of their automobiles than to phase in large numbers of cars that use cleaner fuels than gasoline. 
As a result, there has been a rush to Washington by almost every conceivable maker and promoter of alternative fuels in an attempt to carve out a niche in that yet-to-be-defined future market of motor vehicles. 
ident Tom Doyle and Vice President Mike Pease formed this committee in response to the intellectual life reports compiled by student govern­ment. These reports, presented to the Board of Trustees, detailed the need to improve intellectual interactions on campus. 
The presidential election and the student government's Iceberg Debates stimulated the level of extracurricular intellectual activity on campus last year, according to a report issued by the committee. The Intellectual Life Committee wants to insure that such activity and exchange of ideas remains an integral part of campus life. 
~--­
The Observer Thursday, October 5, 1989 

Air Rescue worker Emily Rizzato of Baptist Hospital in Beumont, Texas, applies a neck brace Tuesday in Port Arthur, Texas, to a man after a fishing vessel he was aboard struck a natural gas pipeline and exploded. Officials confirmed three dead and seven others reported missing after the explosion. 
Three killed in Gulf explosion 
Associated Press 
SABINE PASS, Texas ­More than 100 Coast Guard personnel were joined by park rangers Wednesday in the search for eight people missing after a fishing boat struck a gas pipeline and ex­ploded in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Three people were killed and three others injured in the accident, which hap­pened just before dark Tues­day. The 20-square-mile search was hampered by the suspected presence of haz­ardous chemicals. 
"If they were presumed dead, we wouldn't be search­ing," Coast Guard Lt. Scott LaRochelle said. "The prob­ability is high but there is still a possibility (of sur­vivors). There's always a hope." 
Mike Benson, spokesman for the National Transporta­tion Safety Board in Wash­ington, said the agency was sending a team to investi­gate. The five-member team was expected to arrive in nearby Port Arthur late Wednesday. 
A small fire continued to burn 18 hours after the 160­foot "North Umberland" apparently hit the 16-inch natural gas pipeline, trigger­ing a spectacular blaze that sent flames hundreds of feet into the air, LaHochelle said. 
The main fire burned itself out Wednesday morning after the pipeline was turned off. 
HOW TO LAND A JOB BY GRADUATION 
A Nuts and Bolts Presentation on How To Interview on Campus 
...What Should Your Strategy Be? ...What Should You Say In An Interview? ...What Should Not Be Said? ...What Do Companies Look For? ...How Does Business Perceive Notre Dame Graduates? 
Tim Plunkett, National Director of College Recruiting for The May Department Stores Company, will conduct a practical, down-to-earth, "what's it like from the company's point of view" presentation on college recruiting. Mr Plunkett brings 10 years of college recruiting experience and is a previous director of recruiting for a "Big 8" accounting firm. 
DATE: Thursday, October 5, 1989 TIME: 7:00p.m. PLACE: Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
Thursday, October 5, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Lebanon considers ending 46-year-old gov't job pact 
Date 
continued from page 1 
things that I started to think about why men and women were at odds, was that it must be something in the way that we, as parents, raise our chil­dren." 
The existence of "gender scripts," stereotypes taught to males and females at an early age, cause conflict between the sexes. "In teaching men and women, we teach men to be men, and women to be women, and we do that pretty power­fully." 
Burkhart said that boys learn at an early age that it is impor­tant for them to be strong and in control while girls are taught to be nice and obedient. 
"The 'us' and 'them' attitude gets amplified. There is more and more separation between the boys and the girls," said Burkhart. "It becomes increas­ingly difficult for adolescents to deal with their sexuality vis­a-vie the other sex." 
Burkhart explained that as children advance through pu­berty and into adolescence, these "gender scripts" evolve into "sexual scripts." 
"There is a development of an adolescent sub-culture where it is learned how to be male and female. They learn how they are to communicate about sex. Men learn how to get sex. Women learn how not to get sex," said Burkhart. 
The sexual script of 'come­ones' and 'put-offs' raises the question of communication be­tween males and females, Burkhart continued. 
"There is a very powerful de­mand on women to be nice, but part of being nice is not being direct and clear. And so women make it difficult to keep signals clear," Burkhart explained. 
"And there is an additional element that occurs in this cul­ture. It is called sexism, a negative emotion felt by men towards women," said Burkhart. "Sexism causes an acting out of anger, many times in the form of rape." 
Burkhart believes a solution to the problem of acquaintance rape exists in the ability of men and women to compromise their well-learned "gender scripts". 
"Women have to learn to be powerful, to be clear. If this happens, there won't be any more rapes,'" concluded Burkhart. 

Associated Press 
TAIF, Saudi Arabia-Heckled by Iran, Lebanese legislators met on Wednesday and debated scrapping a 46-year-old pact that divides government jobs along sectarian lines. 
They agreed earlier to revamp Parliament with an equal number of Moslems and Chris­tians in an effort to end the 14­year-old civil war. 
Any agreement, however, must win the support of power­ful warlords who have con­trolled much of Lebanon since fighting began in 1975. Moslem militia leaders Nabih Berri and Walid Jumblatt reportedly gave negative assessments of the Taif efforts on Wednesday. 
Militia leaders have been kept away from the meeting. 
The conflict is a battleground for conflicting Arab interests as well as for Lebanese fac­tions. The war has killed at least 150,000 people and turned much of the capital, Beirut, into rubble. 
Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani warned the legisla­tors Wednesday not to surren­der to domination by Maronite Catholics. 
IMPORTANT! Great Music!!! COMEDY NIGHT 
321-2 Top Ten Phone Messages SENIOR BOAT CRUISE ·-BUSES Great Comedy!!! COMEDY NIGHT ADOPTION. Loving couple 
dreammg of adopting white il'lfant. 
WILL LEAVE AT8 SHARP-GOT 10. "Speak" DAVID LIPPMAN COMEDY NIGHT 


Class. 
LET'S HELP EACH OTHER! 
Fri nile · Theodore's Legal/confidential. Expenses paid. 
IT? 9. "Party Marti and the Bacardi's" THE PHILIPS BRQ:fHERS 
NOT 7 AS POSTED, BUT 8:00PM. 8. "John's House of Hair" THURSDAY OCT 5 Call Lillian and Ed collect,
continued from page 1 0 
HiAg! 9:30 ANYTIME (212) 645-4344 
7. "Yysm" 

ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 6. "Hi, wanna go to my SYR?" THEODORE'S ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 5. "Tim's House of Women-ERIC, Happy Belated 21st!!! RG THEODORE'S ATTENTION MARY MAHONEY! Tonight 7 p.m. which woobie yoobie?" COMEDY NIGHT 
PERSONAlS 
"So I guess we dig each other and Thomas Swartz 4. "State your business" we'll be seeing each other in Professor of Economics 3. "Does he know you?" DILLON NIGHT AT THE MOVIES COMEDY NIGHT at Theodore's marriage and family" Responds to 2. "Kimona who?" -FRIDAY· The Philips Brothers 
HiT.Bass!!! 
You're doing great honey, keep "Does America have a Place in the 1. "Hello" tonight 9:30 up the good work... International Marketplace?" SEAN CONNERY IN HIS FREE POPCORN TAKE THE PLUNGE!!!! your luvah, ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ACADEMY AWARD WINNING cheap date 
To the HOT GUY studying on 4tl\

Molly ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ROLE!
floor P.W. Tues. night. I hope those Urban Plunge applications due 
p.s. Can I touch you? Tonight 7 p.m. 9:00 THE UNTOUCHABLES COMEDY NIGHT
girls were just friends and please 

11 :30 MONTY PYTHON'S atOCTOBER 13TH 
come back tonight so I can get to ################### 
COOLCOOLCOOL HOLY GRAIL THEODORE'S
know you.!!I!!EGNULP EHT EKAT 
Tomorrow!!!!!! THE PHILIPS BROS. ll.lll\/t.l\f\1\l\l\lllll\lllllll\1\l\11111111 At the CSC!!! -PIGLET-IN THE DILLON PARTY ROOM, THURS.9:30
ST. PAUL AND THE MARTYRS

PLEASE GET WELL SOON WHERE THE FILMS ARE free
········Just Do 11········--·· SPRING BREAK SAILING -MIKE-AND SO IS THE FUNI WILLING TO TRADE
"THE CANONIZATION TOUR" AT

BAHAMAS 45ft Captained Yachts. USCTIX
MCCORMICK'S

Groups of Eight. Seven Days FOR KNOTT HALL
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6 Going to MIAMI of OHIO? I need a 
Barefoot in the Bahamas. 

SYRTIX KEVIN COSTNER...
$445.00pp All Accommodations &ride there the wknd. of Oct. 14. Will 
ST. EDWARD'S 
ST. PAUL AND THE MARTYRS help with$. Call Sarah at #3484. 
Meals SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE 
ROBERT DENIRO... Come and See! Friday 6th at 9:00 1-800-999-7245 
HALL FORUM 
SEAN CONNERY... THE BOATHOUSE BLUES BANDCLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable in the basement of Grace hall Ill 
Thomas Swartz 
atmosphere, daily & weekly -THE UNTOUCHABLES--the UNDERGROUND·PHYLLIS!!!!!!!!!

Good evening ladies, step right up, 
Professor of Economics 
specials, pool table, English darts, step right up! 
and great company. 234-3541 It's time to taint the love loft; new 
College fellow responds
MARK!!!! 

FRIDAYAT9:00 Call Jill Ciarimboli and wish her to 
IN THE DILLON PARTY ROOM a HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY!
to our handsome bowling babesheets are in place as of the 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional 29th. Wouldn't you love to be the 
with the nice tight a--Good luck 
-FREE-284-5518
"Does America Have a 
couple in Midwest wishes to adoptfirst person in the section to enjoy 
on all your exams this week. From 
Place in the International 
newborn. We offer stable and the experience?!? You know you 
all your lovers. P.S. Get a date!! 
Wade and Matt-Dear Rachel Scoop Brecher!
happy home, financial security,

Marketplace?" 
Thanks for a great time at the SYR! HAPPY 20th!!!
would!! 
welcoming extended family. 

Every time we see a Wall Street Although this is not 21Dearest Sockdrawer, PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 Take a ride with the Cruise Would you be a sweetie and clean Journal, we'll think of you. We know you'll have lots of fun
Thursday, Oct. 5 • 
after 6:30 pm weekdays, anytime Director--he can do the -less up the kitchen and our room Love, Theresa and Mary Whether with the guy by the tree

7:00p.m. 
weekends.Attorney involved. 

P.S. We loved your suits. Dr. Seuss or your own little Moncheechee SPALDING Love, Box 
dance, the one, the only.... before I get home? Thanks!! 
All are invited. 
would be proud! You'll find your place mighty fast Need student to teach our two and #20 will be a blast!
daughters aged 8 and 9 , to play Today is your special day, 
the piano. 4 mi. north of ND.

\ t'OI,~TEK·I'HELUt;Ei'-10: t~\BAR.ET so by your rules we'll play: 
Late afternoons, place negotiable. Model Un will meet Oct. 5th in 220 We won't get sick on all your buds, Call Kathy 277-7446. Hayes-Healey at 7:00 pm. New and we'll try to get you studs. 
"'~.. . .' members should come at 6:30 to We love ya lots, you know it's true NEEDED: 4 OR 6 NAVY GA's sign up for countries. 
We swear by our eyes of blue I CALL ANNETTE 284-4344 
Party on dude! Love ya, 


COMMITTEE TO INTERVENE 
!lol••~~• • ,,.,..,. • .,.,.••__.o~oo.,_ 11!...........-n .....-.~ ..... h .........., ... ,_,,_ ~~;:,:'";.1,. ..~........_....

ANYWHERE 

~~......................_. 
u.......... .....--~ ....... n-,_ '""'·-...... o... -·· ,_... "--~~... ._h....~....... ­
....................-"'-···.. -·........ ......... l.l<l•·•· •...,,,..,,._.,. 
~~.-,..... ................. ~. ... .o( 

·-~~ 
v 7:30 -9:30 pm Theodore's October 6 
Free Refreshments 
'---------\ffi~\IM-,1'1 II!'TIIJ/1~1. Ill T STlliN;I\ Sl~~;f_\Tf]l -------..J 
-,;. Sponsored by: Graduate Studem Union, International Student Organization, Center for Social Concerns, Pax Christi, Overseas Development Network, Graduate Association for Latin America, Women United for Justice and Peace, Multi-Cultural Week Executive 
is looking for people who are: .tenergetic .t motivated V' responsible V' intsmstsd in advertising 

to work as advertising representatives 
For more information, contact: 
Molly Killen at The Observer #239-6900 or at #3631. 
the Oops 
THE 
"WHIRLING THOMAS" 
A new sensation from the old west comes WITHOUT any safety harness! 
CAUTION: No one over 16 allowed on this ride, please. 
THE 
''GUT SQUISHER" 
THREE TIMES the fun of most rides. 
CAUTION: Head gear required. Not for those with weak knees. 
-The Management of2C 
I really want your 2 USC ga call Tim @ 3000 
Drummer and Keyboardist looking to form a quality rock band Call Tom 3213 or Kevin 3216 
USC TIX NEEDED!!! 4 GA'S AND 2 STUD. CALL SHARON 238-5246 
•••Fall Fest••• Beverage Gardens Tonight SMC field Adm. $2 Must be 21 2 Ids Limit 500 people 9-1am. .50 bev. 
Fri: Cup and Cider give away in front of Haggar 11-1 pril. Cariature drawings too!!!! 










Business 
page 6 Thursday, October 5, 1989 
$50 billion in S&L bailout funds may not be enough 
Associated Press an insufficient amount to deal 
with potential failures." 

WASIIINGTON -The $50 His comments, included in billion Congress voted two written testimony to the panel, months ago to rescue failed which is taking "Congress' first savings institutions may not be look at the bailout since it was enough, a top regulator said enacted Aug. 9, are the Wednesday, raising the strongest yet from a possibility that taxpayers could government official. Private be asked for a second bailout. analysts have been saying for 
Federal Deposit In~1.1rance months that the $50 billion Corp. Chairman L. William likely will prove to be only a Seidman, whose agency is. in down payment. charge of disposing of Seidman said the Resolution bankrupt thrifts, told the Trust Corp., operated by the Senate Banking Committee it is FDIC to dispose of failed S&Ls, much too early to reliably expects losses on the 283 seized predict the cost of the bailout. by regulators so far to total 
But, he said, "it is possible $35 billion. that $50 billion will prove to be By the time the bailout ends 
PROFILE I 


Occupation of Older Workers by Age 

in August 1992, regulators may have seized as many as 300 more dead S&Ls, bringing the total to nearly 600, he said. Those projections "raise questions about the adequacy of the $50 billion in RTC funding." 
However, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, who heads an administration board overseeing the RTC's performance, said, "I know of nothing that's occurred since the bill passed to change my mind" that $50 billion likely is sufficient. 
That "isn't the point. Maybe we need 52, maybe we need 48. 1 The point is we've taken a bonfire and tamped it down to the point where it's embers," Brady said. 
Seidman, answering questions from senators, softened his tone a bit, emphasizing the impossibility of making a certain loss estimate. Nevertheless, he said, "there's no way we can say for sure that $50 billion is enough." 
On a related matter, he said the RTC may have to borrow $25 billion or more, in addition to the $50 billion, to provide working cash until it can recover money by selling loans and real estate once owned by failed S&Ls. 
Congress authorized the extra borrowing, but Sen. Donald Hiegle Jr., D-Mich., chairman of the banking committee, said $25 billion was far more than envisioned. 
So far, the RTC has run through $20 billion: $1.8 billion to close 24 small S&Ls, $8.3 billion to handle five large institutions by next week and five smaller not-yet-completed deals, $8.5 billion to replace high-cost deposits and $1.4 billion as a reserve fund to handle liquidity problems at thrifts that have failed but are still open, Seidman said. 


Judge dismisses California suit, failed to prove sex discrimination 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -A federal judge on Wednesday dismissed the core of the nation's largest "comparable worth" lawsuit, a claim that California deliberately underpaid thousands of women in female-dominated state jobs. 
U.S. District Judge Marilyn Hall Patel ruled that the California State Employees' Association had failed to prove deliberate sex submit new arguments on a claim that state policies had the effect of illegally holding down the salaries of female state employees. But that type of· lawsuit, without proof of intent, has been made much more difficult to prove by a recent Supreme Court ruling. 
discrimination  in  state  
salaries.  
She  allowed  CSEA  to  

CSEA sued in 1984 on behalf of 60,000 or more past and present secretaries, 
clerks, nurses and other people in predominantly female state jobs. 
The state denied discrimination and said any differences in pay levels reflected market rates. Lowe·r pay for female­dominated jobs based on prevailing market levels was declared legal in 1985 by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in an opinion by future Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy. 

Source: U.S. Department of Labor. Bureau of Labor Statistics AP 

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK (NEW YORK) 
will be recruiting on campus November 2, 1989 for Corporate Controller's and Treasury's Entry Development Program. We are seeking candidates who are highly motivated and possess strong analytical, interpersonal and communication skills. 
The Controller's program is designed to provide participants with exposure to various units, e.g. Financial Accounting, Management Accounting, Taxes, etc. The program consists of on job training and supplemental presentations which will focus on developing technical and managerial skills. A degree in Accounting or Finance is required. 
The Treasury Program concentrates on developing participants in the areas of Risk Management and the· trading of Financial Instruments (short-term, medium-term, multi-currency risk groups). A degree in Finance or Economics is required. Knowledge of computer fundamentals is a plus, as is foreign language capability in Spanish or Japanese for available overseas assignments. 
If you are interested in interviewing with us, please sign up at the Career and Placement Service Office, Hesburgh Library. 



Viewpoint
Thursday, October 5, 1989 
page 7 

.Ihe ObserNer-.,_. 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager .. Molly K1llen Viewpoint Editor. .. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager... Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Al1son Cocks Accent Editor Jorn Blas1 Systems Mgr.... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor . Enc Ba1ley OTS Director.. . ..Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor... ... Christine Gill Controller... . .. Anne L1ndner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper publ1shed by the students of the Umversl­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saml Maris College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­,c,es of the adm1nrstra110n of either rnstrtutron The news IS reponed as accurately and ob­Jectrvely as possrble Unsrgned edrtonals represent the oprnron of the maJonty of the lollowrng Edrtor·rn-Chrel. Managong Edrtor Executrve News Edrtor Vrewpornt Ed1tor. Sports Edrtor Accent Edrtor. Photo Edl!or Saonl Mary's Editor Commentanes. letters. and !he lnsrde Column present the vrews ol therr authors. Column space rs available to all members ol the communrty and the lree express1on ol vary1ng oprnrons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged
L----------------------------------------------------J 
LETTERS 

Message of Medjugorje is love 
Dear Editor: 
cause you did not know the 
When Father Griffin began time of your visitation." To the denigrating Medjugorje by as­women who wept at his cruci­sociating it with Necedah and fixion, he said, "Weep not for Bayside, I let that pass, figuring me but for yourselves and your that such an irrelevant and un­children. For the time will come fair tactic would self-destruct. when you will say, 'Blessed are 
When he pursued the attack the wombs that never bore and by means of spurious state­the breasts that never nursed!'" ments attributed to Padre Pio and Akita, that was harder to It would be too long to sum­ignore because it misrepre­marize all the warnings con­sented two well-attested works tained in the rest of the New of God. Testament. Let it suffice to note 
When he complained that that the most horrifying depic­Mary never laughs at Medju­tions of God's wrath towards gorje, I almost wrote you a let­sinners are to be found in the ter. The fact is, she does laugh, Apocalypse, the final book of and frequently smiles. the New Testament, attributed 
Now Father Griffin says that, to John, author of the Gospel of by warning us of the danger of Love. punishment, Medjugorje con­tradicts Jesus, who revealed the of love, not only does injustice It is a fair question whether Father's love to us (The Ob­to the Old Testament, it emas­what Scripture says about di­server, Sept. 15). This distorts culates the message .of Jesus. vine punishment should be un­not only the message of Medju­Such a position caused Marcion derstood literally as God pun­gorje but also that of Jesus. to be excommunicated in the ishing sinners or figuratively as 
Medjugorje does not bring a second century. The God who the suffering they bring on 
message of doom and gloom speaks through the Old Testa­themselves. But using the same 
nor does it depict Mary as sav­ment prophets is the same who language as Scripture is hardly ing us from God's bad temper. is revealed by Jesus. In both grounds for accusing Medju­By such allegations, Father dispensations, his message is gorje of being unfaithful to Griffin simply demonstrates primarily one of love -but a Scripture. that he is ill informed about his tough love that includes warn­subject. Medjugorje summons ings of the punishment awaiting The message of Medjugorje is us to live faithfully the Gospel wrongdoers. chiefly one of love, like that of message of faith, prayer and Jesus. As his love does not deter penance. It offers many helpful "Unless you repent, you will all him from speaking sternly practical counsels on how to d.o likewise perish!" are the words about the lot of evildoers, Mary this. It does indeed warn that 1f of our gentle, loving Jesus. pleads with her children to be we do not convert, we are due "Woe to you, Chorazin," he de­converted before it is too late. for a terrible chastisement clared, your fate will be worse She weeps as Jesus wept over (which anyone, reflecting on than that of Tyre and Sidon. Jerusalem. His teaching is not our times in the light of the "And you, Capernaum ... shall be distorted by her, but by those Gospel, might have figured out brought down to hell." "Woe to who propose a sentimental love for himself!). But relatively little you" was a frequent refrain in that relieves us of serious re­is said on this subject at Med­his addresses to the scribes sponsibility. jugorje, compared with the and Pharisees. He-· warned 
abundant words of hope and Jerusalem, "the days shall come encouragement. when your enemies will sur­
To suggest that the Old Tes­round you and dash you to the Father Edward D. O'Connor tament God is wrathful while ground ... and will not leave one Department of Theology the New Testament God is one stone upon another in you, be-Sept. 24, 1989 
DOONESBURY 
Film reveals inconsistency in University censorship 
Dear Editor, in all instances. The adminis­
What was Notre Dame think­tration skirted the issue in this ing of when it allowed "The particular instance, but a look Last Temptation of Christ" to at Du Lac is ample evidence be shown by a campus organi­that Notre Dame believes in zation? If "The Last censorship. Any petition, sur­Temptation" can be sponsored vey, or questionnaire must by on campus, any movie can. The submitted for approval to the same "freedom of speech" ar­Office of Student Affairs. You guments which support the cannot criticize Notre Dame on showing of "The Last campus, but you can show a Temptation" support the exhi­patently offensive film about bition of pornographic films by Christ. Would the University campus groups. While sexually have allowed the presentation explicit films degrade women, of a film which graphically por­"The Last Temptation" de­trayed Father Sorin or Knute grades the founder of our faith Rockne fantasizing about sex and cheapens the ideals he with a Holy Cross nun -even if stands for. As to the "question the movie promoted intellectual one's faith argument," if a per­discussion? son's faith can withstand a di­Let's get our priorities rect attack like "The Last straight! Temptation," surely it can sur­vive the collateral challenge 
James Bohan 
posed by pornographic films. 
St. Joseph Hall 

Censorship is not a bad thing 
Sept. 28, 1989 

Hypocrisy cloaks Murphy's critics 
Dear Editor: ing at yourself?" Henry was de­I have been reading with in­fending his outrageous matri­terest the many letters and edi­monial actions and declaringtorials condemning Professor himself to be a true son of the 
Ed Murphy for his attempts at Church. calling attention to the incredi­If I were to bring a movie to 
ble proposition that a Univer­campus glorifying apartheid or sity calling itself Catholic is free one such as "The Birth of a Na­to blaspheme Christ in a movie tion" which demeans Blacks 
such as "The Last Temptation and glorifies the Klan, I would of Christ." In the thirty-odd be met with a fury of resistance years I have been a part of the from these very people who op­Notre Dame/Saint Mary's pose Professor Murphy. Some community as a student and causes are sacred but Christ is 
professor I have rarely seen open game. such hypocrisy. Ah! The foibles of human na­If I may borrow a phrase ture! from the prelate Reginald Pole 
Anthony R. Black

in a letter to Henry VIII, one of 
History Department 

history's great hypocrites, 
Saint Mary's College 

"How can you stop from laugh-
Oct. 1, 1989 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
TRUMP/ Ill?& YOU ()(JT OUR CfJNT!?Aa5PECIFI· 7H~R& 2 /A/HAT KJN{) OF 8.1J., CAUY ~YS A IAJH~ NO, I UK/3 AMAT8.Jfi?. Half?. AI?& P/,8/158... UMO /Qf!H 01/U£1) 7H66UY. YOU RUNNING I '83 MOtr ON BOARD, H&~UK& ANYWAY~ NOT Wl<eWARM '85! M8. 
I




~* \ 
'Strong and bitter words indicate a weak cause.' 
Chinese Proverb 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, October 5, 1989 

a e 8 
Bush: Drugs are threat, not a form of recreation 
LETTERS 
Science tells us that a fetus is a human being 
Dear Editor, which flows through his veins 
Surprisingly, many people in and arteries. By 14 weeks, the society know little about or baby is entirely formed: arms have not formed a strong opin­and legs move, nails appear, ion on one of today's most im­and he sucks his thumb. By 20 portant social topics: abortion. weeks, the infant is capable of However, even more surpris­life outside the womb with ex­ingly, many of those who do isting medical technology. have strong opinions know little All of the above facts high­about the different methods of light another fact -a fact that abortion, when the abortions can be realized by any high 
are legal, or how abortions are school student in an introduc­performed upon the fetus. tory biology class or by an Instead, many opinions come eight year old child looking at from views such as, "God says pictures of unborn babies. The it is wrong," or "someone is fact that the unborn child, the trying to enforce their morals same unborn child that can be on me."· Not only are argu­killed by abortion, is alive. No ments such as these religious moral beliefs, no religion, no and philosophical in nature, but philosophical statements about they detract from what should humanity: an unborn child is a be the issue of contention: the living human being. scientific question of whether In light of the above, we en­or not the baby is alive. courage you to become active in 
To this point, let us take a the fight for the lives of the un­look at some basic biological born. We also encourage you to facts. At conception, DNA, the come to an information table genetic imprint that makes this Tuesday during lunch in each human unique, has been South Dining Hall or to join the determined. All of a grown ND/SMC Right of Life group on adult's characteristics, such as Wednesday as they march to sex, blood type and eye color, save lives outside the South have been decided. From this Bend Abortion Clinic. This point on, nothing new is needed peaceful demonstration is de­to become a functioning adult signed to make the South Bend but food and water. At 21 days community aware of the after conception, the heart be­group's belief that every person gins to beat. It is near this is valuable and has the right to point that many mothers begin live. Please consider the above to suspect that they are preg­facts, share them with your nant. At 35 days, the baby's friends and JOlll us on arms and legs are becoming Wednesday at 3:45 at the main more distinguished. At 45 days, circle. brain waves can be recorded. It is near this point that most ba­Anne Broderick bies are aborted. At 50 days, Michael Sheliga fingers, toes, nose, mouth and Saint Mary's/Notre Dame ears are taking form. The child Right To Life produces his own blood supply Oct. 1, 1989 
Women do not have right to be ordained 
Dear Editor: criminate against women but to It is the Church's job to con­
As one of the women being establish order in His Church. form to the Word of God, not "discriminated" against, I wish It so happens that God chose to the world, thus they must to voice that the Committee on for a man to represent the au­hold their position against the Notre Dame's Position on the thoritative side of Himself. ordination of women to remain Ordination of Women does not Since it is God's fault that true to Christ. speak for me. I find the claim scripture was written in this What can Notre Dame "do that women are being discrimi­manner, perhaps we can con­about the ban?" Short o'f nated against by the church clude that he is a bigot. I think changing Scripture they cannot since they are not allowed to be not. change the rule. What they ordained as priests ludicrous. God Almighty created men could do is host a series of dis­
The "church" did not decree and women equal but with dif­cussions on the Biblical roles of on its own that women cannot ferent functions. We must em­men and women so that the be ordained; God made the de­brace what He has so gra­confusion in today's society will cree. The church is only being ciously given us. If women and fade away in the bright light of obedient to Scripture, the Holy men feel that God's rules are the truth of Scripture. Word of God, which declares in oppressive, perhaps they do not 
Julie Parsons 

I Timothy 2:12-13 that a care to continue worshipping 
Research Development 

women is not allowed to "teach the one true God in the manner 
Administrator

or preach," i.e. serve as a which He has commanded. In 
College ofEngineering

priest. this case, they should leave the 
Sept. 28. 1989

God gave this rule not to dis-Church. 
'Wake up' and take safety precautions 
Dear Editor: no excuse for careless, irre­prevail throughout the city of It is 3:00 am and you're sponsible behavior. You see it South Bend, or even the rest of walking-alone. Your leisurely everyday on television, and you the world for that matter, is stroll takes you down a long, read about it in the newspaper. ludicrous. Although the acts dark and unfamiHar street. Guess what? It can really hap­committed by the attackers What's wrong with this pic­pen to you! were wrong, they are not solely ture? Wake up! It is 1989. Notre at fault. If the victim would not Apparently nothing in the Dame lies within the city limits have put himself/herself into a 
eyes of the many Notre Dame of South Bend, Indiana which, potentially dangerous situation, students who have recently to the surprise of many. does a crime may not have even oc­been assaulted under similar have real criminals who commit curred. Remember, it takes circumstances. If they would real crimes. In fact, many peo­two. As adults, I think that it is have used just a little bit of ple have probably fallen under about time for all of us to start common sense, many of these the assumption that all crime, using common sense along with recent incidents probably could on and off campus, has been a more mature level of respon­have been avoided. I can't be­committed by a gang of "young, sibility in our day-to-day ac­lieve that at one of the most black males between the ages tions. People from all back­prestigious universities in the of 17-20." This stereotype, of grounds -black, white, male, 
nation, where some of the course , is not true. But to read female, rich or poor -can be country's supposedly most in­The Observer daily, one would criminals as well as victims. telligent students partake in the believe that the University, as So the next time you're about pursuit of higher learning, such well as the city of South Bend, to walk alone in the wee hours naivete exists. is under siege. of the morning, think again. 
True enough, many of the Du Lac may govern the students here come from up­behavior of students on Notre per-middle class, suburban Dame's campus, but to be so Tish S. Powell neighborhoods almost totally naive as to believe that these Siegfried Hall devoid of any crime. But this is same principles and regulations Sept. 25, 1989 
By George Bush 
Summer is over, and classes are back in session. As we begin the school year, our thoughts again turn to the future ­a future gravely threatened by drugs. 
Americans agree that the biggest threat we are facing as a nation is drugs, in particular cocaine and crack. 
Who is responsible? Everyone who uses drugs. Everyone who sells drugs. Everyone who looks the other way. 
Some people used to call drugs just a benign form of recreation. They're not. Drugs are a real and extremely serious threat to our schools, our homes, our friends and our families. It doesn't matter where you live or what school you attend. No one is free from the threat of drugs. Inner cities, small towns and college campuses all are un­der siege -because America is under siege. 
On September 5, I announced the first comprehensive national strategy to end the siege -to fight drugs with tougher laws and enforcement, and with im­proved treatment, education and pre­vention. The programs we've proposed are an all-out assault against the evil of drug usc and drug trafficking. We are aggressively attacking the problem from every angle and proposing a 1990 drug-budget totaling over eight billion dollars -the largest single increase in history. ­
America is fighting a war against drugs. Yet the most important weapons in the war on drugs are the least tangi­ble: self-discipline, courage, character, support from one's family, faith in God and in one's self. 
Fundamentally, the drug problem in America is not one of supply but of de­mand. We are taking strong new action to stop the flow of drugs into this coun­try and to stop the dealers themselves; but as long as Americans are willing to buy illegal drugs, somebody, somewhere in the world will sell them. 
Recently, I met with Mrs. Everett Hatcher, the widow of a veteran DEA agent who was killed by drug-using cowards. A woman of considerable dig­nity, she put responsibility for her bus­

-Weed \1"
~0 
r·· _\.\'le ~ou nef!d a o~l in -rf. ellEA/) 
band's death squarely on "casual" users of cocaine. She's right -and there is now blood on their hands. Similarly . President Barco of Colombia recently made an appeal to Americans to stop buying the cocaine causing the slaugh­ter of innocent civilians in the drug wars there. 
Every student in America at some point-at a party, in a locker room, in a dorm room -every student must choose to accept or reject drugs. But there is another choice that college stu­dents, as responsible adults, must make -whether to get involved in a personal way to end drug use or to look the other way. 
College campuses have long been cen­ters of conscience and idealism in this country, places where students have raised their voices to protest oppres­sion, injustice and human suffering around the world. Yet, no one would deny that often drugs go hand in hand with injustice, suffering and even death. But where is the sound of protest? In­nocent bystanders are killed at random on city streets. Babies are born ad­dicted to crack and heroin. Young chil­dren are forced into the drug trade by addicts. What greater human rights vi­olations exist? What greater injustices? Yet, recreational drug users still on some college campuses are ambivalent to the death and destruction they are financing. 
We must appeal to the social con­science of every college student on every college campus in America. The way to protest the misery and oppression brought about by drugs is to commit yourself to staying away from drugs ­and working to keep them away from your friends. 
Drug use doesn't" usually begin the way most people would think, with young people getting their first drugs from an addict or a dealer. Instead, they get them free from "friends" who think casual drug use hurts no one. Peer pressure is what spreads drug use and peer pressure can help stop it. 
You can help stop it -if you get in­volved. 
This column. written by the President, was distributed by the Collegiate Net­work. 





Accent ­
Thursday, October 5, 1989 
CINDY PETRITES 
S
accent writer 
he thought it would last 
forever when he told her, 
"I do." Even after three 
years of waiting and rais­ing a son by herself, she never doubted that he would come back to her. He did-with an­other wife. Such is the sad story the Minnesota Opera will present in their sold-out perfor­mance of Giacomo Puccini's op­era. Madame Butterfly at 8 p.m Friday in O'Laughlin Auditori­um. 
The performance is filled with some of the most rich, melo­dramatic music in opera ­Glenn Close played the aria in the film Fatal Attraction ­played by a full orchestra, and sung in English. Madame But­terfly tells the tragic story of a young Japanese geisha, Cio-cio­san, and her ill-fated marriage to the dashing yet unfaithful American Navy man, Lieuten­ant Pinkerton. 
Act I opens with Goro, a mar­riage broker, showing Pinker­ton around the house he is to inhabit during his stay in Ja­pan. The American consul, Sharpless, arrives, and Pinker­ton tells him of Cio-cio-san, the beautiful. fragile Japanese girl he has fallen in love with and plans to marry. Although this marriage is only a fling to Pin­kerton, Cio-cio-san who is affec­tionately named Butterfly is deeply in love, so much so that she has renounced her family and faith to become Christian and marry Pinkerton. 
After a few brief months of wedded bliss, Pinkerton returns to the United States, promising Butterfly that he will return "when the robins nest again." For three years, the faithful Butterfly waits for her husband and raises Trouble, their son. Then comes that fateful day when an American ship arrives in the harbor bringing her be­loved husband -and his new American wife. 
The story ends with Cio-cio­san, disgraced and alone, giving up her son to be raised by Pin­kerton and his wife in America. As the orchestra plays the final aria, Butterfly unsheathes her 

Lieutenant Pinkerton greets his geisha wife. Madame Butterfly plays this Friday in O'Laughlin Audi­torium. 
previ£~ 
father's dagger which bears the inscription, "To die with honor when one can no longer live with honor." 
The Minnesota Opera's pro­duction of Madame Butterfly, part of their nine-and-a-half­week tour of the Midwest and Canada, will be directed by D. Scott Glasser who is making his Minnesota Opera debut with musical direction by Michael Fardink. Friday night's per­formance will also feature some of the country's finest young professional singers. Alternat­ing each performance in the role of Cio-cio-san are sopranos Jane Olian who has previously played the role with the New Orleans Opera and Texas Opera Theatre and Mary Laymon who has recently appeared with the National Touring Company in productions of Don Pasquale, Cinderella, and The Marriage of Figaro. Tenor Tom Schumacher who has performed in Minneso­ta Opera productions of The Ju­niper Tree,Salome, and The Mi­kado sings the role of Pinkerton. 





MADAME 
BUTTERFLY 
Opera tour sells out at SMC 

The faithful Cio-cio-san, Madame Butterfly, peers from behind her fan. 
Section nights feature Nintendo and fish 
N 
othing can prepare you for the shock of living in a col­lege dorm. It takes you about a week to realize that everyone living in your section is insane. Don't believe me? I'll prove it. 
The Nintendo craze is sweep­ing the campus, and my section 
IAN MITCHELL 
Lion Taming 
is no different. But we take it to a bit of an extreme. A few weeks ago, the guys in my sec­tion got together and held dou­ble elimination playoffs in Nin­tendo Tecmo Football. That's probably not so strange, but the final "Tecmo Bowl" was getting a little out of hand. 
Signs announced the kickoff time as the pre-bowl hype grew to a fever pitch. Chicago was favored by 13 and a half points, but some fans still hoped for an upset. Before the game, we all stood and sang the national an­them, and at kickoff we circled our fingers in the air and did the "Ohhhhhhhh" cheer until the ball was kicked. On crucial 
third-and­c:===:;:==:~~.;;~v.~·;;;.Ad::c.;;;i:r-r---IJJF~~~ mor is. Please 
longs, we took feel free to out our keys groan where 
and jingled them in the air. During a few slow mo­ments in the game, the wave even cir­cled the room. (Chicago did go on to win the game and beat the spread--it's hard to find a close Tecmo Bowl these days.) 
Nintendo Football pales before "Fish Pun Night," though. Be­fore I begin, let me explain that I've never really liked puns. It's not just that they are the lowest form of humor; I consider them to be a henious crime against humanity. So if you read on, do so at your own risk. 
The following is a dramatic re-enactment of what "Fish Pun Night" was like. Unfortunately, appropriate. (And believe me, it's appro­priate.) 

Ian: Mum­ble, mumble, mumble. 
Alex: What was that? I'm having trouble herring you. 
Phil: Her­ring? Sounds a little fishy to me. 
please, will you 
Alex: Oh, 

no one realized at the time that history was being made, so there is no written record of ex­actly who said what. This sam­ple is merely intended to re­create the flavor of the original. 
Names have been left the same to embarrass my roommates and make them realize just how dreadfully bad their hu­just clam up? 
Phil: Hey, I'll talk when I want, and you'll like it, you shrimp. 

Ian (gradu­ally getting in to the spirit): I'm trying to get some work 
done. Will you two cut the carp and be quiet? 
(Long pause as everyone mentally reloads, trying to think of new, and even worse, fish puns.) 
Alex: All right, I'm sorry I started this thing. I didn't mean to; that is, I didn't do it on por­poise. 
Phil: You were really floun­dering for that one, weren't you? 
(Another long pause as all assembled realize that there are no good puns involving the word "lobster.") 
Ian: Well, I can't think of any more. I hope "Fish Pun Night" has come to an end. At least, I guess it's fin-ished. 
Phil: It's over? Oh, thank cod. 
So now you now what it was like. Perhaps the worst set of seafood puns mankind has ever seen. I was willing to blame my section for being the weird ex­ception until a friend told me that last year some guys at his dorm held a "Wayne Newton ­Music Marathon" where his songs were played continuously for days on end. 
Why do students act in such bizarre fashions, you ask? Is there some method to the mad­ness? No, I guess not. We do it ... just for the halibut. (Sorry, but you must have seen that one coming.) 
Ian Mitchell will be a regular columnistfor Accent 
The Observer acmr1s r.I~SS1f1eds f!VUiy business d<Jy from I 0 a 111. to 3 30 p rn ,l\\IW Noire Dam., office J 14 Lc~~orlune. dlld from 12 30 to 3 p m. at the Sam! Marys olf1ce Haggar College Cent PI Deadline for next day ctass1f1eds IS 3 p.m All ctass11ieds musl be prepa1d. Tl1e clliuge 1s 2 ·~ents per characler per day. 1nclud1ng spaces
Classifieds 
-page 10 The Observer Thursday, October 5, 1989 

NOTICES  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Desperately need 2 SMU GA's  TICKETS  Rich Alumni from Golden State need Tix for The USC game Call Sean x4327  TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S 312-920-9350  PLEASE SELL ME YOUR USC STUD TIX-NEED TWO.HAVE PIIT TIX TO SELL. CALL 26121111111!!!  
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS 11111111111111111 TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 684-8793 Alumni Senior Club Needs STUDENT COMEDY call Bill 277-3653 or 239 7521 TYPING term papers/reports!letters/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277­5134 10am-8pm. Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949  call Sven at 1770 Mega buck guaranteed!!! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Help!! Need ride to Columbus, OH. Oct. 6-8. Will share expenses. Please call Laney x4830 Experienced keyboard player for Notre Dame Hockey Games. Call239-5050 or 5227. I need a ride back and forth to PA for Oct break. Will pay expenses. Call John at x1838. I need a ride back and forth to PA for break. Will pay. Call John x1838. HELPII NEED RIDE TO MASSJ BOSTON AREA FOR OCT. BREAK  Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games -home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. Need two SMU tix please call 284­49301!11!1!1!! I NEED HELP. 3 GA and 2 Student tickets needed for the USC game. Call John at 2005 if you can help. TICKETS WANTED: 4 SO. CAL. (318) 942-9771, (W); (318) 942­7164, (H). CALL COLLECT.  I NEED JUST ONE U.S.C. GA-­call John at x350 1 . WANTED: 2 or 3 tickets for Navy game. Write: Fr. Tom McGettrick, 725 Sodville, Sinton, TX 78387 or call Collect: 512-364-2210. DESIRE: 2 GA'S And 1 STUD. TX to ANY HOME GAME . PLEASE CALL MICHELLE at X 2922. NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL BUY OR TRADE 2 SMU GA'S + $$. CALL DIANEX34n. HELP! Need 2-4 GA Tickets to the USC game. Will pay good price. Call collect (612) 929-5405. NEED 2 USC tickets Call 502-354­8826 collect.  I NEED USC, MIAMI, & ALL HOME GAME TIX 272-6306 NEED up to 6 USC GAs. $ no problem. Jim x1236 ANY PIIT GAs? Please call Mary at x4822! Very negotiable on price. Have 2 USC Std Tckts and $$ to trade for 4 NAVY GA's. Call277­9869. WANTED: 3 TICKETS NOV. USC. GRAD OR G; CALL COLLECT, 606-273-3164, 8PM-10PM. NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY I need 5 G.A.'s or anything you have together NAME YOUR PRICE Ill I  I need two student tickets to the USC game. Call Martha at x1331. IIHelpll I need 2 USC and 1 Pitt Stud or GAlli Please call Julie X4931 I need GA tixs for all home games Esp. for USC $$ 284-5227 Patty NEED 1 USC STUD TIX !!!II PLEASE CALL JOHN X 3106. NEED TWO GA'S FOR Pm CALL HEIDI287-8133 HELP!!II NEED 2 USC GA'S WILL PAY$$ ANITA 4975 NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STUD TIX TO usc $3526  
WORD PROCESSING. Low rates. Next day service. Free spell checking. 277-6091 ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Thomas Swartz Professor of Economics College Fellow responds to "Does America Have a Place in the International Marketplace?" Tonight 7 p.m. All are invited. ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM  WILL SHARE $$.CALL LIZ AT X1293 NJ bound for Oct. break? I NEED A RIDE II! Will share$$$. Call Angi at X1280. FREE PIIT STU. TICKET to anyone who can give me a ride to Pittsburgh, Clev.,or Morgantown, WV before USC. May help some expenses. Scott x1083 MADAMA BUITERFLY Need ticket for Saturday oct.7  WANT TO TRADE (2) PURDUE OR (2) AF FOR PENN STATE, USC OR PIIT TICKETS. 717-339­3901. NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVY!!Ill PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 Ill $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'S PLEASE CALL 277-9281 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAMES. CALL MAIT 272-3491.  1 or 2 NO/USC tickets wanted. Call Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 nights NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PIIT GAMEl CALL VANESSA AT X4933.$$$$ NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME ---CALL PAUL X3406 I NEED ST. TICKS FOR PIIT -----PAUL X3406----­ Call Kyle-#3775 I need GAs to USC and PIIT Call Dan at 271-9821 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS CALL MAIT AT 1961 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 2 USC GA's FOR SALE + HOTEL ROOM USC WEEKEND! BEST OFFER. x1335  TICKETS FOR SALE: USC AND PIIT. HURRY WHILE SUPPLIES LAST! CALL 4817. NEED 2 Pm GAs. Have Navy and SMU GAs to trade, or will pay $$$ Call Kevin 277-7167 I need one USC stud. I have mucho dinero. Please call Heather at #3765.  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. This Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vigil at 12:15 p.m. Every Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vigils at 12:15 p.m.  at S.Mary's. Will pay $$ 283-2746 leave message Help Wanted: Small S.B. book publisher seeks part-time assistant. Call afternoons 232­3134. •••• CASH TODAY •••• for USC  PLEASE HELPII I desperately need an SMU student of GA ticket!! Thanks! Johanna at # 4456 I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714,  NEED NAVY GA'S CALL 271-9830 NEED 8 USC TIX CALL2207 Dad will disown me if I don1 get 2 PIIT GA's.Call Mike 232-4208  NEED USC GA'S OR STUD TIX CALL KIM 2971 TRADE: 2 Senior tix (sec. 29) for any two GA's for USC-call Pete X1699  Have PIIT & SMU tickets!!! Need USC-Will trade and pay $$$ Kay-1333.  
Admim. building  ,PIIT tix stu or ga -Mark 271­5691.  leave a message. Thanks.  I NEED 2 STUD TIX FOR USC -­ALSO HAVE 2 AIR FORCE GAS  NEEDED: 1 USC STUD TICKET CALL CHESTER x1861  
AD&D player with experience seeks party to join. Call George at x1782.  FOR RENT  SO. CAL-NEED 6 TIC'S HAVE 2 Pm, NAVY, SO. METH WILL TRADE CALL 215-642-2765 Need TXTS All Games call Bill  TO SELL OR TRADE. CALL INGRID #1915 NEED USC GA'S WILL PAY $150 FOR PAIR MIKE X2451 OR X2473  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 1 GA FOR USC WILL PAY$$$$$$ CALL PAT AT 283-1875 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Can I please have 2 GA's and 1 student ticket for the USC football game and 4 student tickets for the Pittsburgh one? I'm Tom and my phone number is 1128. Thank you.  

 277-3653  ***HELP THE NEEDY"""  
LOST/FOUND LOST: MINOL TA FREEDOM ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, NOT PAID FOR, VERY, VERY VALUABLEIII CALL PETE AT #1863 ANYTIME I $100.00 REWARD. NEWS FLASH: Synth programmer I airhead has misplaced a tan plastic box of 3.5" floppies containing 3 disks: 2 blank and 1 tabled "Synth Disk", holding important documents. Would appreciate its immediate return. If found, please call Weazel at #4665.  2 BDRM HOME 2 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.272-6306 FOR SALE COLOR TV RENTALS 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959 One way ticket, SB to ALBANY NY leaving Fri. 10114 FOR SALE CHEAP Call x3442.  BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS I NEED 10. STUDENT or GA Call FRANK 287-5320 NEED 2 GA'S & 2 STUDS FOR USCI NICOLE X2818 NEED 6 USC GA'SI PLEASE CALL x4933 I NEED LOTS OF USC STUD TIXIII Call Hales at 3640 NEED GAS FOR PIIT, NAVY & SMU $$$$ CALL TOM & MARTY X3185 WANTED: 2 STO & 4 GA FOR  I NEED MIAMI TIX FOR ALUM UNCLE-HE'LL DO ANYTHING! CALL3668 TK l NEED 2 NAVY GA'S OR STUDS Will pay big $$$ CALL BILL X11 03 NEED 2 PIIT GAs CALLx1662 WILL TRADE CORBY'S SHIRTS, HATS AND/OR CASH FOR MIAMI TIX. 272-3890.  ARE YOU LEAVING EARLY FOR BREAK? LET ME BUY YOUR USC STUDENT TICKETII!I CALL PAT AT 1875. I need 3 tickets UNDvsPIIT Reasonable $$ Call K. Sherry 232-2051 Will trade original Picasso for 2 or 4 Pitt GAs. x2055 Nick NEED 6 SMU GA'S TIM 271-8795  I need 2 S.M.U. G.A.'s # 4364 Kevin H. Need 2 Tix For Air Force w/tradeUSC or PIIT Stud Tix Call John x3779 After11 PM I NEED 2 USC TIX MAC X4251 I NEED TO TRADE 4 SMU OR 2 PIIT GA'S FOR AS MANY USC GA'S AS POSSIBLE PLEASE CALL 284 5022. HELP!! I AM IN NEED OF 1 USC AND 1 PIIT, GA OR STUD TIX. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS !II CALL MIKE AT X2002  
LOST -Black wallet in NOH middle line on Sunday, Oct 1 I'd just like the wallet back, even if you keep the $. Call Bill Picht at 1436 or drop it by 711 Flenner or Lost and Found  3 dining room chairs $10ea Mark or Kitty 289-2011 4-8pm Have 2 PIIT stud. tix call X 1306  USC GAME WILL TOP ANY OFFER BIG BUCKS $$$ CALL BRIAN *1 026 ANYTIME NO PRICE TOO HIGH !!!!!!!! NEED 3 PIIT GA TIX  I have package(SUB) for 1 to Miami game,Thanksg. 4 nights on beach, airfare, ticket -$435. Call NATE at X2075 Need 2 SMU GA's.Call Sue x4702  I need USC, PIIT, & NAVY GA's. Please call Colin at x1930. Needed: 2USC GA's will pay call Erin x4541  Mom and Dad are kind of weird. Even after seeing the boring Purdue game, they rarin' to see more NO football. Help them out. They'll buy any two G.A.s for any home game.  
LOST: small black leather keychain pouch. Zipper compartment contains Washington State Drivers Licesnse, Marquette University 10 & Nautilus Membership card. Also room & mail key. Please call Katie, x3351. LOST: keys on brass Wimbleton key chain with blue rubber NDDO on it. Very important!! Call Katie x3351. Lost: Black Aiwa Walkman w/ tape inside. If found call Joe @3804 Reward!! Reward!! Reward!! LOST: BLUE NO 10 POUCH. Contains: 10, license. detex, and keys attached. Please call:  FOR SALE: ROUND-TRIP TICKET FROM CHICAGO TO BOSTON FOR FALL BREAK­$195111 WHAT A DEAL !II CALL BRYAN AT 272-7313 SONY port CD car/home use: $1 00; JVC auto rev port stereo: $100; TEAC Dolby C tape deck: $75 <call Mark at 271-0672>. DENVER!OENVER!DENVERI For Sale: Round trip tic from SOUTH BEND to DENVER. Leave OCT. 20 P.M. A True Bargain! Call284-5010. MACE  $$ CALL: 4272 WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YO. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PIIT OR SMU. 800-323-7687. I NEED 2 USC GA'S FOR FATHER. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. RON 1723. WE NEED USC STUDS. AND GA'S. WILL PAY GOOD$$$. CALL BOB OR PAT AT X2313 NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 I am Rob. I need four GA's for the Navy game and you've got them. Call #1804 and I'll buy them.  Need 4 Miami Ga's, and/or USC stud tix. Mike x2093. I need 2 tickets to Air Force! Please call Kathy at 2636 I'M IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 USC GA TICKETS I $$$ PLEASE CALL ME ASAP! JENNY 2922 NEED2SMUGA will pay $ or TRADE 1 USC stud call joe 2647 Need 4 stud tix/ G.A.'s for the USC game. Willing to pay big$$. If you can help me call Vovo at 277-3276. I have 2 NAVY GAs I need 2 SMU GAs Let's swap--Call Mickey x1689  I will trade USC stud. ticket for USC GA. I also have a PIIT stud. ticket 4 SALE. Call Kevin x3216. Need Two GA's to NAVY. Call Jim 234-3656. I need one good NAVY GA In a really big way And you wouldn't believe What I'm willing to pay call $colt x1635 I HAVE PIIT STUDENT TICKETII I really NEED USC Stud. or GAlli Wanna trade?? Call Marcie-1275  Call #3714 and leave a message. HELP!! I need SMU GA's, PLEASE Todd x4358 I need USC tickets. If you have any to sell, call x.1692. Bust the Trojans. NEED 2 or 4 Pitt GA's Call Eric x1008 NEED 2 USC GA'S MIKE x3501 CALIFORNIA DREAM IN: 4 GA tix lor NO-USC. Top$ and Free Dinners 4U. 233-9337 Days, 289­9823 Nights. STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE  
- BRENDA at x4272 or return to: 331 Farley. Reward! Found-Timex watch, black band,  PROTECT YOURSELF 4" purse size w/clip $9 local retail your price $7 limited supply call now 234-0515  It is impossible to be in more dire need of USC tickets. We need a couple students and plenty-o­GA's.  I HAVE 2 TIXS FOR ANY HOME GAME KATIE 5336 I WANT TO TRADE A PIIT  Help: I need 2/4 PENN State GA's PLEA$E call Pete X1716  3 sets of student tickets for sale; If interested contact Bart at 234-4422 or Blanca at 232-3330  
ladies, at Senior Bar on 9/29. Call #3467, Doug to claim  HELP!! I HAVE BRAND NEW FUNAI VCR W/REM FOR SALE PAID $300 ON 9/20 -ASKING $265 OR BEST OFFER INCL.  Call #1804. (Adam, Pat, Bri, or Rob) One Pitt student ticket. The word is "cheap." Call Brian at #1804  TICKET OR MY ROOMMATE FOR A USC TICKET ............. CALL ME AT 3385 PIIT or USC GAs needed  USC Tickets Needed 3 GA's. Will pay$$$$. Call John at 283-2005.  I need 2 USC GA's. Call Todd x-1717.  
2YR WAR &2 CLEANINGS  CALL  desperately. Please call  
WANTED  1850 HP-41CX Handheld expandable  NO Alumnus needs GA for any Home Games. Call Clct. after 5 (201 )-852 2106  Mike at #2288. Help! Need 3 GA tickets to Pitt game. 317-743-7208.  I Need 2 or 4 PIIT GA's -Call Doug x1065  2 PIIT STUDS FOR SALE. BEST OFFER BY FRI 7PM LEAVE MESSAGE X4897  
"""NEEDED""" A RIDE TO MID.· EAST. PA AFTER THE USC GAME. WILL PAY. CALL STEVE X1723  Computer/Calculator Practically unused. Lists for $250, only $1 00 or best offer. Call x37 44  Aaaaaaarrrrrggggghhhhh IIIII I still need 3 USC GA's Call John x2005  Need TIXX to any home football game.Big $$$.Call John X1583  I Need 2 or 4 PIIT GA's -Call Doug x 1 065  see CLASS./ page 5  

---~-~ ~-----~---~-~----~--~ --~---------­
Thursday, October 5, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Training sessions for Red Cross water safety instructors will begin at 6 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 5, in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. There will be six sessions of four hours each. The cost of texts and materials is $30. 
Irish Outdoors will have a meeting at 7 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 5, in Notre Dame Room of Lafortune. Any interested stu­dents should attend. Call 271-9901 for more information. 
Boxing Club needs a manager/trainer to help with work­outs, equipment and administrative responsibilities. No ex­perience is necessary, and either males or females may ap­ply. Call x1818 for more information. 
Horseback riding trip is being sponsored by NVA on Sunday, Oct. 12, for students and staff. The cost of $10 in­cludes transportation. Register in advance at the NVA office or call 239-6100 for more information. 
Deadlines for NVA interhall racquetball and co-ree water polo are Friday, Oct. 6. Register in the NVA office. 
St. Ed's beat the Islanders 15-13, 16-14, in the championship of the NVA Outdoor Volleyball Tournament. 
Chuck Vogel of Kennan won the NVA cross country run on Wednesday with a time of 13:23. Don Good of Cavanaugh was second followed by Tony Stornetta of Grace in third. Grace won the team competition with 57 points with Keenan second at 78 and Stanford third at 93. 
ND women's soccer wins 2-1 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team, now 6-6, crept past the Pumas of St. Joseph Rensselear Wednesday in overtime 2-1. 
The Pumas drew first blood at 71:40 of the second half on a goal by Debbi Sears, but the Irish fought back. 
Minutes later, the Irish evened the score, as senior midfielder Joy Sisolak fired a shot past the Pumas off a corner kick from junior forward Mimi Suba. 
Notre Dame threatened with 
8:55 left in regulation play when Sisolak booted a penalty kick at St. Joseph's keeper Dee Sloan, but Sloan squelched any hopes of a quick Irish victory. 
"We had the ball in their territory," Irish head coach Dennis Grace said. " Their goalie deserves a lot of credit, but we missed some goals we should have had. We just whiffed some right in front of the net. 
"I thought we created more scoring opportunities than we have all year, they just didn't go in." 
Notre Dame was deprived a goal in the first overtime period, as senior midfielder 
K.T. Sullivan fired the ball into the right corner of the goal as the whistle sounded. 
The Observer page 11 
Mohan helps ND men's golf team take second at Glenn Oaks Invite 


By PETE CASTELLI 
Sports Writer 
It was a somewhat disap­pointing turnout for the men's golf team at the Glenn Oak s Invitational this past weekend. 
The Irish went to the tour­nament with high hopes, but things did not turn out just as they planned. The Irish finished second out of four teams. These teams included Lancing, Glenn Oaks, and Tri State, which finished first. 
Second-year Irish head coach George Thomas justified the turnout as, "Just a warm-up, the whole fall season is just a warm-up for the spring sea­son. We experimented with putting players in different po­sitions so that we could find out who our best players are," 
The Irish finished with a 302 and were led by fifth-year se­nior and medalist winner Pat Mohan, who shot a 7. Freshman Joe Dennen shot a 75 while Paul Nolta and Mike O'Connell shot 76 and 79 re­spectively. Freshman David Rignier, who played individu­ally, finished fifth with a 76. 
"Sauganash Golf Course is a 
Belles volleyball defeats Grace College 

By COLLEEN CONDON 
Sports Writer 
Excellent spiking and key blocks helped Saint Mary's storm passed Grace College. Under Coach Sue Medley, the Belles improved their record to 3-4 Tuesday night at home. 
For a team that seems to be getting better with time, the win was a total team effort. By the end of the 
Computer Systems Careers 
Now more than ever, the name DuPont is synonymous with excellence in computer systems. With systems-related expenditures of a billion dollars annually, it's a pursuit of excellence that extends worldwide. 
At Du Pont you'll be challenged to use the most powerful, up-to-the-minute tools available in: 
• 
Applications Systems 

• 
CIIIIIPUier Integrated MMufaclutfng 

• 
SclentU/c and Technical Computing 

• 
Telecommunications &Network Technology 


If you're ready to see where excellence and opportunity merge, make an appointment through your placement office or send your resume to: 
Professional Staffing Manager 
Employee Relations Dept. 
Room X51813 


E.I. duPont de Nemours and Company Wilmington, DE 19898 
~ 
~GUS N.TaTM OF' 
Pat Mohan 

public golf course that is, at best, average and left a lot to be desired," Thomas said. "Moreover, it was a short and tight course that forced our players to use their irons off the tee." 
The Irish fought mother na­ture as well as their games this weekend with high winds and drizzling rains throughout the day. However, Thomas does not attribute the weather to the team's play. 
"It was windy and did drizzle throughout the day but, the weather was the same for every golfer out on the course. We cannot blame the unpredictabil­
ity of the weather for our play," he said. The Tri State team was noth­ing to sneeze at either. 
"Thfly are ranked 13th in the nation for small colleges and proved to be a very well­rounded team. They got a lot of very good recruits this year," Thomas said. 
The Irish are now setting their sights on the MCC tour­nament. Notre Dame won the tournament last year. 
When asked for a prediction for this year's turnout, Thomas said, "No doubt, we're going to win it again. This is one of the bigger tournaments of the year and the boys are ready." 
Thomas disclosed the line-up as Pat Mohan, Joe Dennen, Paul Nolta, Mike O'Connell and Dave Rignier. 
"The competition will be there," Thomas said. "We will be facing such powerhouses as Butler University, University of Dayton, University of Detroit, Xavier University, Loyola, and Marquette. 
This spring we will prove to be the most intense golf team that this university has ever seen." 
third game, Saint Mary's had a victory, winning 15-9, 15-7, and 15-10. 
"We are slowly progressing," said freshman Karen Lorton. "We won tonight and got third place at the tournament last weekend. In our first match this season it took five games to win and our last two have taken only three." 
The Belles are looking for­ward to their own 






Soccer 
continued from page 16 
''I'm really excited to go home and play them," said Kern ex­pressing similar feelings. "I think it's going to bring out something extra in my play." 
It is the hope of Coach Grace and all Irish soccer fans that 
Notre Dame 
Communication 
and Theatre 
presents 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
T1ckets available at the door or 1n advance at Lafortune Student Center Box Office MasterCard and Visa Orders 239·7442 
tournament. The Saint Mary's College Invitational takes place October 13 and 14 at the Angela Athletic Facility. They will be competing against Aquinas College, Madonna College, Mundelein College, Siena Heights College, and Saint Xavier College. 
Saint Mary's next home game is October 5, at Manchester College. 
such enthusiasm is contagious. If so, it is very much a possibil­ity that the Irish can return home late Sunday night, cham­pions of the Metropolitan Life Classic. 
At this point in the season, it is hard to imagine a bigger confidence booster for a young, but quickly maturing Irish soc­cer team. 
CRESTED~
NOVEMBER 22·26 *4 NIGHT f-
STEAMB 
JANUARY 2·12 *5 OR 6 NIGH f-
BRECKEN 
JANUARY 2-7 *5 NIGHTS f-1, 
WINTER~
JANUARY 2·7 *5 NIGHTS -,._ 16 
VAIUBEAVER 
JANUARY 5·12 *5 OR 7 NIGH -,._ 

••E"C:+ 
~
. 
~ 
••to• 
8tb .wiJAL COllfGIIIl WINTBIIIIIIDIII TOll RifE NOIIMATDII aIIEIBIUf10NI 


1·8GO-J21·59tl 

~ ~ 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, October 5, 1989 

.. 
AP Photo 

The Oakland Athletics' Mark McGwire and Dave Henderson had a lot to bash about Wednesday afternoon as they led the Athletics to a 6-3 triumph over the Toronto Blue Jays which put them two-games up in the American League playoff series. 

Athletics shoot down Blue Jays 6-3 
Henderson's record four stolen bases spark Oakland 

20 of their last 26 home games. on a single by Nelson LirianoAMERICAN Toronto is 10-0 when the dome and walks to Lloyd Moseby and LEAGUE PLAYOFFS is shut as it will be Friday Mookie Wilson. 
night. Dennis Eckersley relieved and Toronto starter Todd McGriff singled to right to Associated Press Stottlemyre, who was 7-3 in his make it 6-2. But Eckersley, who last 15 starts, held the A's to had 33 saves, got George Bell 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Jose two hits and no runs on 26 to hit into a 4-6-3 double play Canseco could not start pitches in the first three in­as Moseby scored the Jays' Wednesday because of a bad nings. third run. Eckersley, who saved headache. No matter. Rickey The Blue Jays grabbed the all four Oakland playoff victo­Henderson gave Toronto one lead in the third inning on Fred ries last season, earned his all day. McGriff's run-scoring first of the series. 
Henderson sparked a two-run grounder. The A's chased Stottlemyre in fourth inning rally with two But just has he had done in the sixth when Parker led off stolen bases, and the Oakland Game 1, Henderson got the A's with a long home run to right Athletics beat the Blue Jays 6-3 going again. field and McGwire followed in Game 2 of the best-of-7 Henderson walked leading off with a single. American League playoffs for a the fourth, and stole second Jim Acker relieved and Dave 2-0 lead. and third. Henderson hit a ground-rule 
Only two of 11 teams have The previous AL record for double. Ron Hassey made it 4-1 rallied from a 2-0 deficit to win steals in a series was four by with a sacrifice fly and Tony the AL playoffs -Milwaukee in .Kansas City's Amos Otis in Phillips added a run-scoring 1982 and Kansas City over 1978. single. Toronto in 1985. Carney Lansford, who hit Rickey Henderson led off the 
So there is hope for the Blue .336, followed with a single to seventh with another walk and Jays. left over a drawn-in infield to again stole second and third. 
The A's have won six straight tie the score. Lansford moved He came home on a throwing playoff games, while the Blue to second on Parker's grounder error by McGriff, who was at­Jays have dropped five in a to first, and scored on tempting to pickoff Lansford. row. McGwire's double down the Stottlemyre, whose father, 
Once again, the A's put to­left-field line. Mel, pitched in the 1964 World 
gether a combination of power, Moore, who won a career­Series for the New York pitching and speed to beat the high 19 games, entered Game 2 Yankees, allowed seven hits and Blue Jays. with a 4-12 lifetime record four runs in five-plus innings. 
Starter Mike Moore allowed against Toronto, having lost Moseby led off the third in­three hits in seven innings, seven of eight. ning with a single and moved to Mark McGwire had three hits Oakland was breezing along third when McGwire mishan­and Dave Parker hit his first when Rick Honeycutt relieved dled Wilson's roller down the home run in 25 postseason Moore to start the eighth and first-base line for a hit and an games spanning 93 at-bats. loaded the bases with none out error. 
Henderson had two singles and two walks, and has been on base seven times in nine plate appearances. He has six steals in the series, breaking the play­off record of five previously held by Davey Lopes (1981) and Steve Sax (1988), both with Los Angeles. 



l\'l!~JJo!'
Henderson stole both second 
toai\S E--.c 

and third in the fourth and sev­enth innings. The A's are now 49-18 in day 

THE NAIL STUDIO 
There are a variety of techniques that our nail artists have been trained to perform including art work and conditioning of your 
games this season, while the 
Blue Jays are 23-28. 
nails. 11 you have had poor results in the past elsewhere. why not
Canseco, who is hitless in his 
try The Studio? Come in for a free evaluatioh of any nail problem.
last 22 postseason at-bats, was 
We have a 30-day guarantee. 
in the starting lineup but was 
• 
Solar Na11a • Repairs • Manicures by Jecc•ca 

• 
Fill-Ina • UK Nail Jewelry • Whirlpool Pedicures·


scratched when he had a mi­
graine headache before the 
I Student discount­

game. He pinch hit in the A's I 
solar sculpted nails I
three-run sixth inning and 




I The Castle
Regular $40.00 I
struck out. He walked in the eighth. 
Now $30.00 I
272-8471 
Bring in this ad for

The AI. playoffs take a day Sl Rd. 23 at Ironwood Suite 1 A I off before moving to Toronto discount Convenient Psrking I for Game 3 on ~riday night. Storm Davis (19-7) is scheduled to pitch for the A's against Jimmy Key (13-14). The Blue Jays were 34-20 at the SkyDome, including winning 
Giants 
continued from page 16 
Mark Grace hit a two-run homer in the first inning for the Cubs and Ryne Sandberg, who had three hits, homered in the third. 
That was all the 39,195 fans -not including those packing the adjacent rooftops -had to cheer about on a warmer-than­expected night. There had been frost warnings the previous evening, but the game-time temperature of 55 degrees and light winds even had home­plate umpire Doug Harvey in short sleeves. 
Game 2 will be Thursday night with Chicago's Mike Bielecki (18-7) facing Rick Heuschel (17 -8). 
Clark, facing the team that has given him the most trouble throughout his career, hit an HBI double during a three-run first inning and a solo home run in third. With the bases loaded and two outs in the fourth, Cubs manager Don Zimmer went to the mound to talk to Maddux and Clark hit the next pitch out of the park. 
Clark, a .407 hitter with run­ners in scoring position this season, tied the NL playoff mark for hits. He hit .360 for the Giants in the 1987 playoffs, a seven-game loss to St. Louis. 
Neither Clark nor Mitchell like to hit at Wrigley Field or against Chicago. Going into the game, Clark had hit just two 
h .Jme runs in 141 career at­
vats versus the Cubs -his low­
est total against any team ­
and had no homers and just 
five HBis in 48 tries this sea­
son. Mitchell hit only .189 
against Chicago this year. 
That wasn't evident this time. 
Mitchell, the league leader in 
total bases, and Clark, the run­
ner-up, went wild. 
Maddux had not pitched in eight days since winning the Cubs' division clincher. He wasn't sharp early and neither was Chicago. 
Brett Butler led off with a single, moved to second on a sacrifice and took third on a passed ball that rookie catcher Hick Wrona should have easily caught. Clark doubled beyond center fielder Jerome Walton's dive, Mitchell singled up the middle and Matt Williams dou­bled past Andre Dawson in right. 
In the fourth, Pat Sheridan and Jose Uribe led off with sin­gles and Butler was intention­ally walked to load the bases with one out. Hobby Thompson popped up before Clark sent the drive to right that left no doubt. 
The Cubs had their chances. After scoring twice in the first, they wasted Luis Salazar's leadoff triple in the second. After Sandberg homered in the third, they left two runners on base when Salazar popped out. 


Thursday, October 5, 1989 The Observer page 13 

Secretariat dies at 19 
Associated Press 
PARIS. Ky. -Secretariat, whose 1973 Triple Crown tri­umph stamped him as the "people's horse," was humanely destroyed on Wednesday. lie was 19 -getting on for a horse but awfully young for such a great guy. 
"Maybe he was not the world's greatest racehorse," his owner, Helen Chencry, said, "but he was a charismatic per­son. 
000 
"The dream is over." 
Secretariat's 31-length vic­tory in the Belmont Stakes gave the sport its first Triple Crown winner in 25 years. In a year of turmoil -including Watergate and Vietnam -it also gave the country a hero, and Americans latched on as though he were human. 
"Secretariat was like the Arnold Palmer or Sugar Ray Leonard of horse racing," John Sosby, manager at Claiborne Farm, once said. "He's a peo­ple's horse." 
Ron Turcotte rode Secretariat in 1973. No other could compare, he said. 
"Secretariat was head and shoulders above any one of them," he said. "I didn't ride Buckpasser or Dr. Fager, but I rode against them, and on their 
00.
best days I never saw no Secretariat. He was the best." 
Gus Koch, assistant manager at Claiborne, said Secretariat had an incurable condition known as Laminitis, an in­flammation inside the hoof. He was put down by injection at 
11:45 a.m. EDT at Claiborne Farm, where he stood at stud, Koch said. 
"Of course. I'm terribly sorry to lose an old friend," Chenery said. "As long as he was alive, his memories had more imme­diacy." 
Koch said Secretariat's con­dition "rapidly worsened" on Tuesday, putting the chestnut stallion in "extreme pain for the first time." 
"Nobody wanted the horse to suffer and that's commend­able," Koch said. "Secretariat had a lot of class and he knew it. It's a thrill to work around a horse like that. He knew who he was and what he was all about." 
Secretariat was buried in a 6­foot by 6-foot dressed oak cas­ket lined with orange silk, the color used by Claiborne's racing stables. He was buried near his sire, Bold Ruler, in a small graveyard behind the office at the farm. 
The brass nameplate on Secretariat's stall door will re­main there. 
"Secretariat was a lot differ­ent than other horses," Koch said. "He was a very special horse to all of us. He was ad­mired by all in the horse world and fans all over the country. 
"We didn't think this day would come for a long time." 
Koch said Walter Kaufman, resident veterinarian at the farm, put the animal to sleep. The condition was diagnosed on Labor Day, Koch said. 
"When the inflamation oc­curs, swelling results," Koch said. "And since there is little room for swelling, this is a very painful condition." 
Not only did Secretariat win the Kentucky Derby and Belmont Stakes in record time, but he probably also would have set a record in the Preakness if the timing process hadn't malfunctioned. 
Secretariat won 16 of 21 races in two years, but most fans remember the Belmont best. Already a winner in the Derby and Preakness, Secretariat barreled down the homestretch at Belmont Park, and, amazingly, he was alone. It was 31 lengths back to Twice a Prince. Using the customary racing equivalent of one-fifth of a second per length, Secretariat was under the wire for 6 1-5 seconds before Twice a Prince came along. 
Not since Citation won the Triple Crown in 1948 had any horse managed to win all three races, let alone in the style of Secretariat. 
Some still consider Man o' War the greatest horse of all time. It's the old Joe Louis­Muhammad Ali argument. 
• 
All Suits & Sport Coats Up to 50% Off 

• 
Outer Wear -Comfy, Pioneer, Schott Bros., Wrangler, All 20% Off 

• 
All English Apparel 20% Off 

• 
Silver Tack Up to 50% Off 

• 
Chap Special $79.95 to $89.95 

• 
Blankets and Hoods all 10% Off 


• Plus Much More 

55345 FIR ROAD MISHAWAKA. IN 46545 (21 9) 259-1188 
v, Mile North of US 20 -2V> Miles South of US 23 Mon.-Sat. 10-8 Sun. 10-5 

Associated Press 
When the NHL opens its 73rd season with nine games Thursday night, Wayne Gretzky won't be the only one shooting for a milestone. 
While Gretzky's pursuit of Gordie Howe's all-time scoring record may overshadow other individual achievements, several other players also have their eyes on new levels. 
Three players have a chance this season to reach the career 1 ,000-point mark and another player has a shot at the 500­goal level. 
Quebec's Peter Stastny is closest to 1,000 points, needing just 14 to join the exclusive club. Edmonton's Jari Kurri is 50 points away and Chicago's Denis Savard 67. 
Bryan Trottier of the New York Islanders figures to join the 500-goal club this season. He needs just 13 to make it. 
Trottier also needs 32 assists to move past Phil Esposito 
(873) into fifth place on the all­time assist list. 
Four players are gunning for milestones in the assist category. 
Larry Robinson of the Los Angeles Kings is closing in on 700, and Pittsburgh's Paul Coffey, Montreal's Bobby Smith and Boston's Ray Bourque are nearing 600. 
Robinson needs 14 assists to reach his milestone, Coffey needs five, Smith 10 and Bourque 56. 
Meanwhile, Gretzky will continue his pursuit of Howe's scoring record of 1,850 points when the Los Angeles Kings play host to the Toronto Maple Leafs in one of Thursday night's openers. The Kings center needs just 14 to surpass the Detroit Red Wings' great. Howe made his point total in 26 seasons, Gretzky will break it in 11. 
Guy Lafleur, now with Quebec, has a legitimate chance to move up three spots to No. 7 on the all-time goal-scoring list. Lafleur, the Hall of Farner who came out of retirement to play for the New York Rangers 
Fumbles 
continued from page 16 
For the record, that was five years ago. It would be five years and counting if Aim hadn't been able to lasso the ball after performing an impressive pigskin juggling act. 
"I had trouble getting a hold of it," says Aim, "I bobbled it a bit, but once I got a hold of it, 
~~~GER THAN LIFE MOVIE-MAKING' 
-heWilloorrtscr\.PI.AYIOY 

1/A GREAT AMERICAN MOV1E11
**** 


last season, currently is ranked No. 10 on the all-time list with 536 goals. 
After scoring 18 goals last season, he realistically has a shot to move past Stan Mikita (541), Maurice Richard (544) and John Bucyk (556). 
Under Michel Bergeron, who was also his coach with the Rangers, Lafleur is likely to receive ample ice time. He was recently placed on the right side of a line centered by Peter Stastny, the Nordiques' top offensive player. 
"I think it will work out well," said Lafleur, preparing for the Nordiques opener at Buffalo. "I came here and I want to stay here. I'm tired of moving." 
The 38-year-old Lafleur, who scored most of his goals with the Montreal Canadiens, has said he wants to play at least two more seasons in the NHL. 
Nine -teams have changed head coaches since the end of the 1988-89 season, which culminated in Calgary's Stanley Cup victory over Montreal. 
there was no way I was letting go." 
The hottest rumor on campus yesterday concerned the fact that ABC had dropped this weekend's game against Stanford in favor of the Washington-USC contest. 
Rest assured, Irish faithful. Yesterday, WNDU-TV announced on their evening telecast that their rivals at WSJV-TV (channel 28) have, in fact, made arrangements to pilot the Irish across the airwaves and into living rooms throughout South Bend. The kickoff will be at 3:00, so don't make any plans for Saturday afternoon. 
Yet another rumor has Lou Holtz taking over Don Shula's job as head coach of the Miami Dolphins after Shula's contract runs out next year. Alas, this, too, is the result of imaginations running wild. 
"I've been to Sea Worldoo.other than that, I won't justify that rumor with any other comment," snaps Holtz, making it clear that Miami is the farthest thing from his mind. 
I'm not sure if Holtz realizes that Shamu doesn't spend too much time swimming around in Joe Robbie Stadium, but don't look for Holtz to be on the sidelines when Dan Marino throws his first touchdown pass next year. 




page 14 The Observer Thursday, October 5, 1989 
Houston, Colorado step into unfamiliar territory in AP Poll 
By STEVE MEGARGEE quarterback who died of stom­Associate Sports Editor ach cancer last week. 
Two teams of rebels -one Colorado won at Washington with a cause and the other the weekend after Aunese's College without one -entered unfamil­death and appear to be a solid 
Football
iar territory when the latest candidate to break the Associated Press Poll came out Nebraska-Oklahoma strangle­Monday. hold on the Big Eight title. If might not be such a painful loss 

Following a 65-7 waxing of the Buffaloes do win the con­for the Hurricanes. Temple, the Houston Cougars ference and go undefeated, they Freshman Gino Torretta, of the Southwest Conference would probably play for the na­Erickson's replacement, will moved to No. 12 in the nation. tional championship at the not exactly be leading the Colorado moved up to No. 3 on Orange Bowl. Hurricanes against a mur­the basis of wins over Illinois Houston need not bother derer's row of opponents. and Washington. thinking about a national title, Miami's next two games are at 
Although neither school has a or even a conference crown and home against Cincinnati and long history of top 10 ran kings, Cotton Bowl berth. The San Jose State. both teams have garnered rep­Cougars are on an NCAA pro­The Hurricanes play No. 22 utations. bation that prevents them from Florida State on Oct. 28, and 
Houston is getting famous playing in a bowl this season. Erickson is currently listed as for running it up on opponents. That has not bothered Andre doubtful for that contest. Don't having beatPn thme outmanned Ware and Co. Ware. the be surprised if Torretta's per­adversaries by a combined Houston quarterback, has formance in his next two starts seore of 170-14. passed for 1,306 yards and 14 determines just how ready 
The Colorado team's troubles touchdowns with only five in­Erickson is for that showdown with the law was the subject of terceptions. with the Seminoles. a Sports Illustrated article ear­I louston is leading the nation ••• lier this year. in scoring offense, passing of­Southern Cal quarterback 
Now, however, all the artides fense, total offense and scoring Todd Marinovich seems to have being written about Colorado defense. come a long way since his sub­are positive. The Buffaloes are par season-opening effort in a dedicating their season to Sal The finger mJury to Miami 14-13 upset loss to Illinois. Aunese, the former starting quarterback Craig Erickson The redshirt freshman had a 
Hentrich's search for 'perfection' earns him kicking, punting chores 
BY BOB MITCHELL Sportswriter 
stare in disbelief at the goal­and Jim Sexton out of their posts. kicking responsibilities. 
With 9: 12 left in the first When he reached the side­In four games for the Irish, quarter of the earliest battle lines, lloltz placed his hands on llentrich has connected on only between No. 1 and No. 2 teams his shoulders and barked. "No four of eight field goals. In high in the history of collegiate problem! No problem!" in an school. Hentrich notched his football in Ann Arbor, Mich., attempt to keep intact the farthest field goal from 55­Coach Lou Holtz waved his fragile mind set of the fresh­yard out and kicked four lield hand telling the field goal team man from Godfrey, Ill. goals from fifty or more yards. 
to salvage a stalled Notre lloltz downplayed the miscue Yet, he has had to adjust to Dame drive. In obedient style, but llentrich would have noth­the absence of the two-inch tee freshman placekicker Craig ing of the sort. In his humble which he used at Marquette llentrich hurried out to the Midwestern voice, Hentrich High School. In his brief career lield to attempt a 20-yard field professses that better days are at Notre Dame, Hentrich is 2-4 
goal in front of 1OS ,000 rain­ahead for him and subse­from the 20-29 yard line, 2-2 drenched onlookers and a na­quently, the Irish kicking game. from the 30-39 yard line and 0­tional television audience that Hentrich has taken over the 2 from outside the forty. His 
would put Notre Dame on the kickoff duties, the point-after longest is from the 32-yard scoreboard first. attempts, the field-goal at­line. The snap. The hold. The kick. tempts and half of the punting "The absence of the tee hasn't 
And then the most feared chores. affected me,"said Hentrich. "I words in a kicker's vocabulary "I am a perfectionist, "said played soccer for eight years were uttered by ABC's Keith llentrich. "I have not done what and kicking the football off the Jackson-"And he missed it." I am capable of doing. I have to ground is just like kicking a Hentrich, in a futile plea to the get better if I want to compete soccer ball off the ground." supernatural, wrapped his at this level. I want to make ev­The Sorin Hall resident is av­hands around his helmet and ery field goal I attempt. I ex­eraging 37.3 yds. on four ran off the astro-turf shaking pect a lot of myself and if I punts, all coming against Pur­his head while the \-tichigan don't perform to my ability I due. Hentrich has switched Wolverines celebrated a bit too get disappointed." from his high school style, early. llentrich, a first-team pick on three-step punt to a quicker 
This one experience exempli­the U~A Today All-American two-step punting style. lies the lonely life of the place­squad, has taken on the major­"Punting is mostly just con­kicker. Tlwre is no place to hide ity of kicking duties for the de­centration and if you go out 
from the icy stam of the spec­fending national champions . there with good concentration tator. lie is set off from the The 6-1, 175-pound freshman you are going to get the job rest of the team and can only booted juniors Billy Hackett done,"explained Hentrich. 
WE"DLIKETO REMIND YOU THAT THE 
STEAKS 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA

UNCENSORED CONTENT 
PRIME RIB 

Featuring Friday nighl seafood buffet
OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS 
MADE POSSIBLE BY 
SEAFOOD 
and Sunday brunch 
THE CONSTITIITION OF 
219-259-9925 THE UNITED STATES. 
1----------------------------------------­
Kimmerly's 


GINA'S PIZZA 684-5930 
2640 South 3rd. at Bertrand Road Niles, Michigan 
CHECK OUT OUR PRICES 
PIZZA-------­
12 lOCh 14 lOCh 12 lOCh 14 lOCh
Yes!! 
CHEESE . $5.80 $6.95 BLACK OLIVE $6.30 $7.70 SAUSAGE 6.00 7.50 GREEN OLIVE 6.00 7.50 PEPPERONI . 6.30 7.70 MUSHROOM 6.00 7.50
These are 
HAM 6.30 7.70 SAUSAGE AND MUSHROOM 6.70 8.00 
I 
GROUND BEEF 6.00 7.50 COMBINATION 6.95 8.70 
I 
CANADIAN BACON 6.30 7.70 Sausage. Mushrooms.
our regular 
ANCHOVY . 6.30 7. 70 Green Pepper and On•ons 
I 
GREEN PEPPER . ... , 6.00 7.50 EXTRAS .80 1.00 
ONION 6.oo 7.50 12 inch OUR FAMOUS "EVERYTHING"' 14 inch
prices. I
1 
$9.00 All Of The Plua Toppings For A Great Taste Treal $12.95 I 
-----------------------------------------! 
big day in the Trojans' 42-3 thrashing over the Sybil of the Big Ten -Ohio State. But Marinovich proved he had ar­rived as a true college quarter­back last weekend, when he led a touchdown drive and con­verted the two-point gamewin­ner against No. 21 Washington State. 
In that 18-17 loss, Washington State probably doomed any chances of a sur­prise Rose Bowl season, but the Cougars have shown they could be a force for years to come. 
The coach (Dennis Erickson) and quarterback !Timm Hosenbach) from the Washington State team that upset UCLA and won the Aloha Bowl last year both left the uni­versity during the offseason. 
Nonetheless, new coach Tim Price has overcome an injury to starting quarterback Brad 
Gossen  and  has  produced  a  
winner  at  Washi ngton  State.  
•••  

Is Tennessee for real? 
The sixth-ranked Volunteers answered that question in the aflirmative last weekend with a 
21-14 victory over Auburn 
where tailback Reggie Cobb 
rolled over the normally stingy 
Tiger defense. 
Though the Vols now have a 
10-game winning streak dating 
to last year, it's still too early 
to plan on hearing repeated 
choruses of "Hocky Top 
Tennessee" in the New Orleans 
Superdome (a Ia Tennessee's 
35-7 Sugar Bowl rampage over 
Miami in 1986). 
Tennessee is set to embark on 
a feast-or-famine set of three 
games against Southeastern 
Conference opponents. Before 
trawling to Alabama and LSU, 
the Vols host Georgia. 
The Bulldogs do not appear to be as tough as usual undPr first-year coach Hay ColT. but Hodney Hampton is continuing the srhool's tradition of great tailbacks. 
If Goff is anything like his predecessor, Tennessee could be in for troubl1~. Georgia is coming ofT a loss to South Carolina, and under former coach Vince Dooley, the Bulldogs would never lose two games in a row. 


"They stress greatly to get the ball off quickly and I was just trying to hurry myself. I have not done what I am capable of doing. Before every kick I try to visualize the perfect kick." 
And the perfect kick is exactly what he will aequin~ if he keeps his current work ethic. During the summer, llentrich ventured 
to a nearby junior high school to work on his kicking. 
"I think the reason for my success so early is practice." said llnntrieh. "I knew whPn I came here I had to perform to the best of my ability in ordnr to play. I practiced three and four times a wenk. 
What has impressed the soft­spoken 18-year old about Notre Dame the most'? 
"The thing I like tlw most 
about Notre Damn football  is  
the fact that I got a chann~  to  
show my abilities."  


SPAGHETTI SPAGHETTI SPAGHETTI 
at the DOMER DASH AND DINE 3 AND 6 MILE RUNS 
Saturday, October 7 11 :OOam Register at NVA 
"RUN FOR THE IRISH" 
[Before the Stanford Game) 
Thursday, October 5, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
12:00 p.m. Iso Lounge, La Fortune Student Center. Fireside Chat with speaker, Rosemary Houghton, "Feminist Spirituality." Sponsored by the Multi-Cultural Executive Council. 
6:00 p.m. Monogram Room, JACC. Presentation and reception for Accountancy, MIS, MBA's with Tax students interested in discovering career opportunities with Ernst and Young. 
4:00 p.m. "Argonese and Catalan Jewish Converts to Christianity at the Time of the Expulsion in 1492," by Mark Meyerson, Department of History in 131 Decio. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute and Committee for West European Studies. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Noon Slide lecture, Phillip Tennant, Furniture Exhibit in 200 Riley Hall. 
4:15 p.m. Lecture, "Selected 20th-Century Art and Artists: Themes and Variations," by Harold Zisla in the Snite Museum of Art. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Making and Breaking of Bonds in the Solid State", by Roald Hoffman, John Newman Professor of Physical Science at Cornell University in Room 123 Nieuwland Science. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Chinese Pork Roast Pork Cutlet Chasseur Cajun Scrod Lentil Stew w/ Mushrooms Hot Turkey Sandwich Manicotti w/ Marinara 
COMICS 
ACROSS 25 Savage, 48 Shoot the intractable breeze 
1 Fountain order person 
50 Change piece 5 Pitcher's 
28 A Darling 51 Sizzlingforbidden 30 Alaskan cape or Brooklynmovement 

seaport revues? 9 Broadcast 
34 Stand ready 58 Start a golf 14 Apartment game
35 Campus figure 15 Protected, at 59 Fling
36 Hailer's object sea 60 What fans do37 Ovens? 

16 Dwell 

61 Race of gods 17 Close led by Odin 41 Guitar's rei. 
42 Nobelist for 18 Laugh up a Peace after 62 Roof section 
storm 

Wales a 63 Poet Pound 19 Red head, once 43 Miffed 64 Top-notch 
20 Hot actress of 44 Track event 65 Batik expert yore? 
46 Past 66 At no time, to 23 Have to have 
47 Actor Wynn: Keats 24 Ruckus 1916-86 
DOWN 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Critter 2 Draft status 3 Fabulist 
4 N.B.A. division 5 Clip-joint owner? 6 In full voice 
7 Regan's father 
8 "Roberta" composer 
9 Caesar, for one 
10 Titania's mate 11 Coil ~1-':"i~=+::i"'!!!'P!!! .=:+=+=:::.+::±;.E-EE-1 12 Modify text 

22 "Chad--," 1940 film 25 Noted jazz pianist 26 Left the land of Nod · 
27 Street entertainment 28 Verso's complement 29 Honolulu's locale 

32 Arthur Tracy's theme song 33 A k a Barnaby Jones 35 Stupefy 38 Storehouse 39Airs 40 Fellow members 45 Slight matters 47 Ruby from Halifax 49 On the qui vive 
so Continuous bending line 51 Rabbit or Fox 52 Seine feeder 53 Lean-to 54 Pier 55 Guck or muck 56 "When You-­aTulip ...": 1914 song 57 Asterisk sa Hammarskjold 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WA HERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 

-~~ ~-­

Sports
pa_ge 16 Thursday, October 5, 1989 
Irish men's soccer prepares to head west for two games 
By CHARLIE POLLARD 
Sports Writer 
One might assume that the 
Irish soccer team would be a 
discouraged bunch as the play­
ers head to California for this 
weekend's competitive Santa 
Clara Metropolitan Life Classic. 
On the heels of a 1-2-1 
homestand, such an assump­
tion seems to have merit. 
Nevertheless. the soccer 
team's disposition is generally 
positive and optimistic. 
Of the homestand, only the 3­1 overtime loss to Wisconsin yielded truly negative results. Coach Dennis Grace evaluated the 4-1 win over Michigan St., the 2-2 tie with Marquette, and the 3-1 loss to Indiana as all positive performances. 
Thus Grace's team is pre­pared and excited to move on, especially after a week of good practices. 
Yes, the Irish are headed to California. The timing of the trip could not be better. This is the first "plane ride trip" for the team. Such a trip offers a chance for the Irish to spend valuable time together while alone as a team. 
Coach Grace sees this chance as a key for his team to find out about themselves. 

Mitch Kern 

"The timing (of this trip) is good to aid our total chem­istry," Grace said. 
Sophomore midfielder Mitch Kern echoes similar thoughts. "We've had some pretty hum­bling experiences at home," claimed Kern, "thus going all the way out to California can hopefully bring us together and bond us." 
In order to prevent further "humbling experiences" this weekend, the Irish need to dis­play a combination of cohesive teamwork and strong play. 
Friday's opponent, Cal State­Los Angeles, has a 5-4-2 record. They play a tough schedule and will definitely come ready to play. Golden 

San Francisco's Kevin Mitchell saw a lot of home plate at Wrigley Field Wednesday night, as he and Will Clark helped the Giants drub the Cubs 11-3 in the opening game of the National League playoffs. 
Giants down Cubs 11-3 in opener 
Mitchell, Clark lead San Francisco's offensive assault 

Eagle's senior Mike Gregorian is especially dangerous. He leads his team in scoring with seven goals, including five in the last three games. 
Santa Clara, the host team, should pose even stiffer compe­tition for the Irish on Sunday. They are currently ranked fourth in the nation by Soccer America's latest poll. Their record is 8-0-1, with the only blemish a 1-1 tie with third ranked UCLA. 
With ample proof, Coach Grace calls this one of the premier classics in the country, as well as a stern challenge for his squad. 
An interesting aspect to the classic is the homecoming of Sophomore Mitch Kern and Freshman Jeff Rhodes. 
Both Irish players went to Bellarmine High School in Santa Clara, just minutes from Santa Clara University. Both players also live a short dis­tance from the school. Furthermore, each considered attending Santa Clara. 
"I played with over half of their players," said Rhodes, "and they are truly an amazing team. I'm looking forward to the game." 
see SOCCER/ page 11 
AP Photo 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO -Once they turned on the lights at Wrigley Field, Will Clark and Kevin Mitchell turned them out on the Chicago Cubs. 
Clark set a record by driving in six runs as he went 4-for-4 with two home runs. including a grand slam. and Mitchell hit a three-run shot as the San Francisco Giants routed Chicago 11-3 Wednesday night in the opening game of the National League playoffs. 
Neither Clark nor Mitchell like to hit at Wrigley field, one of the best hitters' park in the majors. But no one would know it after watching the league's most feared sluggers. 
"I think the night game was a factor. I saw the ball better. I didn't see it well during the day," Clark said. "I've had my problems, but this is the first time I've ever played with the wind blowing out. 
"It was just one of those games," he said. "That doesn't mean I've got this ballpark or this pitching staff in my pocket." 
Pitching may dominate play­offs. but not this time. Clark's slam in the fourth inning off 19-game winner Greg Maddux landed on Sheffield Avenue past right field and made it 8-3. By then, thf)re already had been four home runs and 13 hits. 
Clark's grand slam came one pitch after Cubs manager Don Zimmer visited Maddux on the mound. 
"I was going to leave him in," Zimmer said. "I just wanted to make sure we were together on how to pitch him, so I asked him. I got the answer I wanted, just not the result. 
"He had a hell of a week," Zimmer said in assessing Clark's performance. 
Mitchell added the finishing touches in the eighth, homering onto Waveland Avenue beyond left field after Clark had walked. 
"It felt good, especially at this park," said Mitchell, who led the majors with 47 home runs and 125 RBis. "I hadn't hit one here since 1987." 
Clark, who batted .333 and had 23 home runs and 111 RBis, set a playoff record for RBis and tied the all-time post­season record set by Bobby Richardson for the New York Yankees in the 1960 World Series. Clark hit his only big­league grand slam this season, against Mike Maddux, Greg's brother. 
Scott Garrelts, the league's earned run average champion, struggled early yet lasted seven innings for the victory. 
see GIANTS I page 12 

The Observer I Brian Schwartz Freshman Kevin Pendergast has helped the Notre Dame men's soccer team amass a 5-4-1 record. Pendergast and the Irish will try to improve upon that record Friday and Sunday as they play two games on the west coast in Santa Clara, Calif. 
Holtz urges Culver to hold onto the football 
Turnovers have perplexed the Fighting Irish faithful in the 
past few weeks, and some of the attention has focused on 
running back Rodney Culver. Culver has turned the ball over 
twice on fumbles in the past two games, causing Lou lloltz 
to wax philosophical and quote Ohio State legend Woody 
Hayes. 

"Woody once said 'Fumbling is an act of God, that is, it's an act of a God darn fool.' But I think that fumbling is be­cause of a lack of fundamentals. I have great confidence in Rodney Culver, he's an outstanding football player. lie's an outstanding blocker, he's intelligent, and he's everything you want in a Notre Dame football player. 
KenTysiac 
Sports Writer 

"But I have to be honest with you. If we had other options, we'd take them. Rodney's going to have to play, and he's going to make a contribution." 
With the loss of Braxston Banks and Tony Brooks, the once deep and experienced Irish backfield has become de­pendent on Culver, who hadn't seen much playing time until this year. Culver has run well this season, gaining 110 yards on 22 carries for an average of 5.0 yards per carry. 
But Holtz hopes Culver can cure his ailing butterfingers . "The fundamentals of ball-carrying are very unnatural, and all you can do is keep working (on them). I have great confi­dence in Rodney Culver." 
First-year Stanford coach Denny Green has also had problems at running back. Four out of his top live ball car­riers will sit out this game, the most notable being preseason All-America candidate Jon Volpe, who gained 67 yards on 17 carries last year against the Irish and will rest his sprained left knee on the sideline. 
As a result, sophomores Gary Taylor and Todd Burton will start in the offensive backfield for the Cardinal, who will likely throw the ball early and often. They average 42 pass attempts per game coming in, and let's face it, they probably have no choice but to air it out with all of those backs nurs­ing injuries. 
You might think that the end zone is a totally foreign con­cept to defensive tackle Jeff Aim, who scored his first colle­giate touchdown last weekend on a 16-yard interception re­turn against Purdue. But Aim has crossed the goal line be­fore with the ball in his grasp. 

"I played tight end in high school, so I was supposed to score back then," says Aim, whose most recent touchdown previous to Saturday occurred in his junior year of high school. 
see FUMBLES/ page 13 








