---------------~---------------------------~------· 

VOL XXII, NO. 1:,s-FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1989 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Class of 1989 says farewell to ND, SMC 
~341 graduate ND on Sunday 
By CHRISTINE WALSH Senior Staff Reporter 
The Class of 1989 will bid farewell to the University of Notre Dame in the 144th Commencement Exercises, Sun­day, May 21 at 2 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. 
Of the 2341 degree candidates, 800 are from the College of Arts and Letters; 480 from the College of Business Ad­ministration; 291 from the College of Engineering; 213 from the College of Science and 205 from the Graduate School. 190 students will receive MBA's; and 172 will receive degrees from the Law School. 
Business entrepreneur Peter Ueber­roth will speak before the audience of about 12,000 and will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree at the ceremony. 
Ueberroth became president of the Los Angeles Olympic Organizing Com­mittee in 1979 in preparation for the 1984 Summer Games, a task for which he was named Time magazine's "Man of the Year." 
From March 1984 to March 1989, U eberroth served as major league baseball commissioner. Ueberroth's major accomplishments during his ten­ure include: 
• 
a major effort to eradicate drugs; 

• 
the establishment of a baseball alumni charity foundation for former major league players in need of assis­tance; 

• 
the augmentation of minority hirings in front office positions; 

• 
the increased fiscal health of the game. Eight others will receive honorary degrees from the University. 


Karen McKibbin, a chemistry and bi­ol9gy teacher at LaSalle High School in South Bend and Indiana's 1989 "Teacher of the Year," will be the first secondary school teacher ever to receive an honorary doctor of laws from the University. 
see NO I page 5 
. 


Saint Mary's to graduate·435 
By MATT GALLAGHER Senior Staff Reporter 
Four hundred thirty five Saint Mary's 
College seniors will participate in Sat­
urday's commencement activities. 
The 142nd commencement for Saint Mary's College seniors will be held Sat­urday, May 20 at noon in the court of LeMans Hall on the Saint Mary's campus. The rain site is Angela Ath­letic Facility. 
Francine du Plessix Gray, an author and journalist, will present the com­mencement address to the graduating seniors. 
Deanne Wachel, of Munster, Ind., is the valedictorian of the Saint Mary's class of 1989. Wachel, a double major in chemistry and mathematics, received a perfect 4.0 grade point average through all four years of study at Saint Mary's. 
Two honorary degrees will be con­ferred at the ceremony. Sister Joan Chittister OSB, prioress of the Erie, Pa., Benedictine order, will receive an honorary degree. Chittister is a colum­nist for the National Catholic Reporter and an activist in Pax Christi, the U.S. Catholic chapter of the international peace movement. 
Also receiving an honorary degree is Archbishop Eugene Marino. Marino, the archbishop of Atlanta, is the na­tion's first black archbishop and is one of only 12 black bishops in the United States. 
Lydia Haggar Novakov is the recipient of this year's President's Medal. Novakov, of Dallas, Texas and a 1972 graduate of Saint Mary's, is a retiring member of the College's board of regents. . 
The President's Medal was awarded 
for the first time in 1967, and has been presented 16 times since. Criteria forGoodbye, Golden Dome th~ honor are outstanding service to Samt Mary's and to the individual's 
Members of the Class of 1989 bid farewell to the Golden Dome as this weekend's com­local community. 
mencement activities get underway. The next time these men and women see the Ad­
ministration building, they will be alums . see SMC I page 6 
COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND ACTIVITIES 
Saint Mary's 
Friday, May 19 1 p.m. Saint Mary's Nurses Pinning Ceremony, Church of Our Lady of Loretto 
4 p.m. Saint Mary's Baccalaureate Mass, Angela Athletic Facility 
Saturday, May 20 Noon Saint Mary's Commencement, Court of LeMans Hall 
Notre Dame Thursday, May 18 7 p.m. Law School Third Year Students Dinner, JACC Monogram Room Saturday, May 20 
9:30 a.m. ROTC commissioning, JACC Arena 
11 a.m. ROTC reception, JACC Monogram Room 
5 p.m. Notre Dame Bacalaureate Mass, JACC Arena 
6:45p.m. Notre Dame Graduation Dinner, JACC Fieldhouse Sunday, May 21 2 p.m. Notre Dame commencement, JACC Arena 


Brian Einloth graduates first in Notre Dame ·C~Iass of 1989 
By MICHELLE DALL Senior Staff Reporter 
Brian Einloth, valedictorian of the Notre Dame Class of 1989 considers the title "a great honor." 
• SMC valedictorian I page3 
Einloth, an electrical engin­eering major from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, boasted a 3.992 cumulative GPA after seven semesters. 
The sole grade marring Ein­loth's otherwise perfect record was a "B" he received in a one­credit chemistry lab course his freshman year. 
Einloth was salutatorian of his high school class. As an engineering student, he typi­cally carried 16 or 17 credit hours per semester. 

A strong academic back­ground in math and science in­itially contributed to Einloth's interest in engineering. "I was pretty good at math and liked science," he said. "I thought engineering would be a good way to incorporate both my tal­ents and interests into one field, instead of restricting myself to either just math r just sci­ence." 
Einloth has spent the past two summers as an intern at the Delco Electronics Corpora­tion, in Kokomo, Ind. He will begin full-time work at Delco in June. 
Following graduation, Ein­loth said he will also "definitely pursue an MBA." He was recently accepted on a deferred admissions policy at the Harvard Business School, which requires three years of work experience before enroll­ment. Although he says his plans to earn an MBA are cer­tain, Einloth has not yet decided whether he will attend Harvard in 1992. 
Continuing his studies in engineering is -;:,o part of Em­loth's post-~.-aduation plan--a plan whir~t, he says, "may or may r>..,t lead to a masters degr<Je." 
Einloth said he is both pleased and honored to be named this year's valedic­torian. "You can't possibly fig­ure as a freshman that you can attain this honor," he said.. "You don't really think about it until it happens." 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 2 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 

$33 million has been donated to Notre Dame by Edward DeBartolo of Youngstown, Ohio. The gift, one of the largest ever in American higher education, will underwrite a new academic quadrangle and the construction of its anchor buildings, the $16-million Edward J. DeBartolo Classroom • Facility and the $14-million Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, named after DeBartolo's wife who died in 1987. DeBartolo is a graduate of the Notre Dame class of 1932. His son, Edward DeBartolo, Jr., graduated from the University in 1968. The rest of the benfaction will finance general development of the quad, which will extend southward on the east side of N. Notre Dame avenue, the main entrance to the campus. The class­room facility is expected to be completed in early 1992 and the performing arts center late that year. 
Sacred Heart Church will close following Commencement 
Exercises Sunday to allow for extensive restoration of its interior. 
The doors of the 118-year-old church are not expected to reopen 
until the fall of 1990. In the meantime, Sunday Masses and most 
Holy Cross Community liturgies will be celebrated in Stepan 
Center Approximately 50 alumni marriages are normally held 
in the church each summer. The crypt, where Sacred Heart 
Parish Masses are also said, will remain open, and small wed­
dings can also be accomodated in the Log Chapel on campus. 
The interior work is the last phase of extensive renovation of the . church. 
Father Richard Warner, counselor to the president 
at Notre Dame, will assume responsibility for the Office of 
Campus Ministry effective July 1. Father Andre Leveille an­
nounced earlier that he was stepping down from the position of 
director of campus ministry. Leveille said he will return to the 
University in another capacity following a sabbatical break. 
Warner will include campus ministry among his other duties, 
which relate to the Catholic dimension of the University, including 
its relationship to the Church and to other Catholic colleges and 
universities, as well as the role of its founding religious commu­
nity, the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Notre Dame faculty salaries in 1988-89 remained in the top-20th percentile in the nation, according to figures reported in the annual American Association of the University Professor's survey. The average Notre Dame full professor receives a nine­month salary of $65,000 amd total compensation (salary plus fringe benefits) of $79,600. Figures for associate professor are $44,500 ($54,900) and for assistant professor $38,300 ($45,800). 
Notre Dame was ·judged one of the top three 
institutions of higher learning in developing character, according to a survey of college and university presidents and development directors. The survey, commissioned by the Templeton Founda­tions, an international philanthropic organization, canvassed more than 1400 colleges and universities asking respondents to nominate five to 12 schools "that encourage the development of strong moral character among students." Most often cited were Notre Dame, Taylor University in Indiana and Wheaton College 
in~. 
The first annual Hall Spirit Awards have been awarded to Mike "Norm" Knapp of Fisher Hall and Gerry Quinn of M?r­rissey Hall. Members of the Judicial Boards of the two p1lot dorms were asked to nominate a senior who "had shown though personal character and actions a spirit unique to Notre Dame," according to Dwayne Hicks, alumni representative. T~e awards honor the late David Tilley, a former resident of Mornssey who died while enrolled in Notre Dame Law School, and former Fisher resident Robert Satterfield, who died in January. In the future, each dorm will have a winner who "made their dorm a better place to live for everyone," Hicks said. 
WEATHER 
Rain, rain, go away 
Thundershowers likely today, with a high in the mid-to-upper 70s. Cloudy Saturday, with a chance of rain, in the 70s. Sunny Sunday, with a high of 75, following morining showers. 


ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On May 19: 
Closings for Thurs., May 18, 1989 
e In 1536: Anne Boleyn, the second wife of England's King Henry 
Dow Jones VIII, was beheaded after she was con­
Industrial Average 
victed of adultery. Anne had fallen from Henry's favor because their 
+ 7.69 
Closed at 2470.12
marriage did not result in any male heirs. However, she did give birth to a daughter, who later became Queen S&P 500 f-. 0.49 Elizabeth I. 
e In 1921 : Congress passed the Currency exchange Emergency Quota Act, which estab­
Mark .000 to 1.9715 DM/$ 
lished national quotas for immi­grants entering the U.S. Yen +0.57 to 138.75¥/$
e In 1943: In an address to Congress, British Prime Minister Winston Cfiurchill pledged his Precious Metals country's full support in the U.S. was 
Gold +$3.60 to $370.30/ oz.
with Japan. e In 1964: The State Department Silver+ $0.03 to $5.467/ oz. disclosed that 40 hidden microphones 
had been found in the U.S. embassy in Source: Prudential Bache Securities Moscow. 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer stall reports. 

The Observer Friday, May 19, 1989 


Look forward -the view back is not all roses 
The schmaltz stops here. It's a good thing Monk and Co. didn't name 
'College is the 

me valedictorian. Aside from having a GPA 
best time of your life'

closer to hell than heaven, I don't think I would have the same viewpoint on leaving the "Notre 
is the equivalent of Dame family" as whoever's got that lofty post. 'My life went Sure, sure, we're leaving close friends made 
downhill after

here after four years of group survival. And 
twenty-one.' ' 

we're leaving the security of maids and dining halls and advisors of many sorts and a rela­Mark Mclaughlin tively sedate culture. Graduating Senior 
But we're also leaving parietals. And the al­cohol policy. And parking on the Alaskan Tundra. And being broke and having no income. • Remember the time St. Michael's shrunk all And preaching from Mount Goldendome. And your slacks four sizes the day before your SYR? the tray line at North Dining Hall that doesn't That must have hurt. seem to ever let you put trays on it. And being • Remember that time you tried to turn the treated as not-quite-a-slave just because you Dome green with colored paper and they caught pay tuition instead of being paid salary. you and interrogated you for hours in the little 
Pessimism? Never heard of it. But when the white room upstairs? silver lining gets a little too dear to the heart, Hey, this place isn't that bad. I sincerely it's good to know there's usually a cloud to get believe that Notre Dame is secretly made more the mush out of your system. difficult than it needs to be so that the students 
I'm sure there will be lots of reminiscing this learn to question the system and think for them­weekend about the national championship, the selves. See, Monk really wants us to be inno­last final, and the night you passed that great vative, dynamic, Dome-painting beer-guzzling milestone in your life: first 'A', first passout, sex fiends. So he creates one-track curricula. , first sexual experience, whatever. So here's a confiscates beer and locks up all the women few little forgotten items to balance everything after 12:00 a.m. (2:00 on weekends). out: Can we honestly say we learned what we 
• 
Remember the time you were studying for needed from Notre Dame? I think so. Aside Emil's dreaded final and your roommate from getting a pretty good education, we brought in a new acquisition from the freshman learned to trust one another. That's worth meat market? Boy, that hall floor was a great taking with us and it's worth all the hassles. place to study. Lots of older and supposedly wiser people say 

• 
Remember when the Security guard at main that college was the best time of their lives. I gate didn't believe your excuse about the say humbug. "College is the best time of your wounded girlfriend and opened up your trunk life" is the equivalent of "My life went downhill to find that keg? You still doing community after twenty-one." We can do better than that. service for that? Notre Dame has given her students, even cynics 

• 
Remember the dreaded Purdue game when like me, the tools to make a life. so much gin passed your lips that your friends So full speed ahead, batten down the hatches, thought you were dead and they hauled you off and damn the torpedoes. Let's do Notre Dame to have your stomach pumped? I bet you still proud. turn green at the smell of gin. Mark McLaughlin is a fifth-year aerospace 


• Remember that WONDERFUL freshman engineering and psychology major. He is a year roommate? former news editor of The Observer. 
Wednesday's Staff

-~e--Obse~~r-­
--=-l.-=1-' ---.. -.1.-=Y~'-' ----Design Editor ............................ Alison Cocks Design Assistant .....::............... Alison Cocks TypaseHers ............................. Matt Gallagher
P.O. Box Q, Notre Danie, IN 46556 · ................................. Mark Derwent News Editor ................................ Sara Marley Copy Editor ............................. Matt Gallagher
(219) 239-7471 
Sports Copy EdHor ................. Theresa Kelly 
VIewpoint Copy Editor ........ Christine Walsh 
VIewpoint layout ...................... Dave Bruner 

Accent Editor ................................. John Blasi The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except Accant Copy Editor ............ Robyn Simmons during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
Accent Designer....................... Alison Cocks University of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's College. Subscnptions may be pur­
Typist ........................................... Sara Marley .......... .... . ....................... Christine Walsh

chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wnting The Observer 
Photographer .......................... Trey Raymond

The Observer is a member of The Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction nghts 
............................................Eric Bailey are reserved 

Congratulations and best wishes to the Notre Datne and Saint Mary's Class of 1989 
Good luck fro:m The Observer 

................................................................ 
Observer classifieds will be accepted -from 

Happy Birthday Today-is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up and wish her a happy one. By the way 
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 

Laura,we do expect to see you dancing
11 LaFortune.
on pool tables tonight. 
ll 


~ ·-----------~ ---~-----~-----------·-~ ~--~~~----,..._..,-----~ 

Friday, May 19, 1989 
The Observer 
pa e 3 

Wachel named as Saint Mary's valedictorian 
By TIM O'KEEFE "not at all" if there was not a Senior Staff Reporter test or assignment coming up: "I had a tendency to do things 
Deanne Wachel has been at the last minute." named valedictorian of Saint W achel will be working with Mary's College in 1989. AT&T Labs until September 
Wachel, a chemistry;tnath 1990, when they will send her major, has a cumulative grade to get a master's degree in point average of 4.0 computer science, after which 
"I never thought about it she will continue working for (being valedictorian) that them. much," said Wachel, "I really didn't start thinking about it The choice for valedictorian until second semester this is based solely on grade point year." average through the seventh 
This is the first time anyone semester, said McLaughlin. with a double major at Saint Wachel, a native of Muncie, Mary's has had a 4.0 GPA, said Ind., said she has participated Brett McLaughlin, public infor­in academic clubs, such as the mation specialist for Saint math and chemistry club. Mary's. Teresa Marcy, assis­W achel said she did not have tant to the vice president, said to make any more of a sacrifice 

Good balance required 
it was the first time since at than the average student in or­least 1974 that the valedictorian der to become valedictorian,

Seniors participated in various activities all month long, including this picnic and pep rally at Stepan 
has had a 4.0. although because of her double 

Center Tuesday night. Activities included a Chicago trip and a golf tournament, among others. 
Being valedictorian is "a big major, she did have to overload honor," said Wachel. She her sophomore year, taking about 20 credit hours . 


-------------------------------..claims that she would study 



Post­Graduate Credit 
MARIGOLD MARKET 
• 


.~&o~t~rrnet ~tefke-oiAt 
from Jordan Automall 
Answer the Following Test Questions True or False 
1. You have graduated, or will 
purchasing a new Ford [Lincoln­graduate, with a Bachelor's or Mercury). To qualify for pre­Advanced degree between October approved credit: 1. You must have 1, 1988 and January 31, 1990. verifiable employment beginning 
True/False. within 120 days after vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient

2. 
Pre-approved financing from 


to cover ordinary living expenses, 
Ford Credit Is available. 1i'ue/False. 
as well as a car payment. 2. A prior 
3. 
$400 cash back from Ford Motor credit history Is not necessary, 

Company can be yours. 1i'ue/Fa/se. but if you have one, It must be satisfactory.

4. 
You must purchase or lease an 


Come In to Jordan Automall a total 
eligible vehicle from stock by Ford quality Ford [Lincoln-Mercury] 
December 31, 1989. True/False. 
Arnerie.ttn V\h·nes +
dealer for complete details. 
Credit

If you answered true to all of the 
lmportect Beer~
above, you're on your way to Ford Credit Gets You Going 
•Plect?e~llahwi for~pet.ill\l~ers +requests· 
Jordan Ford-Lincoln Mercury 

(/~ m~~ fM./Oeu«-71J1M
609 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
7at.rfa41A-bpm·~ llMt
Mishawaka, IN 46545 phone 259-1981 
---------~--· --.._.... 
The Observer Friday, May 19, 1989
a e 4 



Lewis, Oddo, Ruppe elected to ND Board of Trustees 
Special to The Observer 
Three persons were elected to the University of Notre Dame Board of Trustees at a meeting May 5, 1989. 
Aubrey Lewis, corporate vice president of the F.W. Woolworth Company of New York City; Father Thomas Od­do, president of the University of Portland; and Loret Miller Ruppe, director of the Peace Corps were named to the board. 
Lewis, a 1958 Notre Dame graduate, joined the Wool­worth Company in 1967 after five years with the Federal Bureau of Investigations. In his current position he heads an area responsible for govern­ment, community and interna­tional corporate affairs. 
Lewis served on the board and commission that built the New Jersey Sports Complex 
and is active in community af­fairs in New Jersey. He was a consultant to the 
U.S. Armed Services in dealing with black-white relations on overseas military installations. 
Oddo earned a bachelor's (1956) and master's in theology (1969) degrees from Notre Dame and a doctorate in Chri­stian theology from Harvard University in 1979. 
He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1965 and was ordained in 1970. He was an as­sistant professor of religious studies at Stonehill College from 1974 to his appointment to head the University of Portland in 1982. 

Oddo has served on Holy Cross Provincial Commissions on Justice and Peace and Con­tinuing Education and is a member of the Task Force on Higher Education and the Provincial Council. 
Ruppe, who attended Marymount College in Tar­rytown, N.Y., and Marquette University, received an honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame in 1984. 
In 1981, Ruppe was appointed director of the Peace Corps by President Reagan and is the longest tenured in that position. She has been responsible for volunteer programs in Asia, Africa, Latin America, the Car­ribbean and the Pacific. 
From 1966 until his retire­ment in 1979, her husband, Philip, served as Congressman from Michigan's 11th District. 
Notre Dame's 49-member board, headed by Donald Keough, president and chief operating officer of the Coca­Cola Company, was formed in 
1967  when  the  University  
changed  over to  lay  gover­ 
nance.  


Hatch named new ND vice president for advanced studies 
Special to The Observer 
Nathan Hatch, professor of history and acting dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has been appointed vice president for advanced studies at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame by the Board of Trustees. 
Hatch, who has been at Notre Dame since 1975, will succeed Robert Gordon, who is retiring after 18 years as an officer of the University. 
"We expect that Nathan Hatch will take over where Bob Gordon left off in providing forceful leadership in our quest for distinction in graduate edu­cation and research," said Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy. 
The vice president for ad­vanced studies is responsibile for the development and well­being of all post-baccalaureate work, the administration of the Graduate School, and all re­search activities under the provost's office. 
"We welcome to the admin­istration a scholar in his own right who, through his director­ship of the Institute for Schol­arship in the Liberal Arts, has had a dramatic impact on re­search activity in the College of Arts and Letters," said 
Impress 
Work for 

The 
Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
"Nathan will be responsible for continuing to improve our graduate program, enhancing our competitive position in sponsored research and ser­ving as a national University spokesman on research mat­ters," O'Meara said. 
Hatch received his B.A. from Wheaton College, his M.A. and Ph.D. from Washington Uni­versity in St. Louis, and spent a postdoctoral year at Johns Hopkins University before coming to Notre Dame. 
In 1977-78 he was a fellow at Harvard University's Charles Warren Center for Studies in American History. 
Hatch is a specialist in the history of religion in America, the coauthor of one book and the author of two. His latest book, "The Democratization of American Christianity," won the Albert C. Outler Prize in Ecumenical Church History. 
Hatch's scholarly studies have been supported by grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities and the American Council of Learned Societies, and in 1981 he received Notre Dame's Paul Fenlon Teaching Award in the College of Arts and Letters. 
He has been serving as acting dean of the College of Arts and Letters this academic year, while Dean Michael Loux is on sabbatical. 
Ch~

,~GR£~Yf 
Restaurant & Coctrtlll u.p


~\VALL 
CONGRATULATIONS SENIORS! Reservations for Graduation Special Party Rooms Available 
130 Dixie Way S., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 272-7376 
The residents ofFisher Hall thank you for your contributions to both the dorm and the Notre Dame Community. Best-Of luck with all your future endeavors 
Daniel E. Bearer William J. Beston Thomas Butler Robert J. Carson John1Conmy Carlos Garcia Jr. Robert J. Houlihan Charles S. Hrutkay Timothy M. Irvine Robert J. Keane Peter J. Kiernan Micha~l N. Knapp Andrew Kostielney 

and Goa Bless. 
Patrick C. Krenzer 
Philip K. Lau Mark A. Lieber 
Paul E. Loughridge
Iohn McOsker Robert E. Nevins 
Michael W. Pang 
John Pielyk 
Tom Schiesser 
Stephen W. Shake 
Timothy Shanahan 
Andrew D. Shearon 
Andrew J. Sheehan 
In Memoriam: Robert Satterfield Michael T. Shimota Richard W. Siegler Thomas Sloan Luther Snavely Matthew Soucy Sean M. Stark George L. Streeter Robert L. Tanzola III Harold R. VanOpdorp William Wack James L. Wehner Theodore Woodward Vadim Zabludovski 


STUDENTS SAVE 
10% 

AND LOTS OF TIME-Let us pack and ship your belongings back home for the summer, or to wherever your new career leads you! 
NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALLI 




--=BDXESf.Ll/j 


SHIPPING + PACKING + CRATING 
MOVING & STORAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PU!ASE PRESENT ntiS 
COUPON AT THI! 1111E OF 
PUACHASI! OR IHIPPINO 
M-F 9AM·7PM SAT 10AM·5:30P~' SUN NOON-5:30PM 
5818 GRAPE RD • INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA • MISHAWAKA 
--·---~ ·­
Friday, May 19, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Student, faculty excellence awards given at SMC 
Special to The Observer 
Awards for students and fac­ulty excellence were an­nounced at the annual honors convocation at Saint Mary's College. 
Teresa Marcy, a lecturer in the department of government, was presented with the Spes Unica Award, given for excel­lence in teaching and dedicated service over an extended per­iod. 
A 1959 graduate of Saint Mary's, Marcy received post­graduate degrees and taught in France before her appointment to the faculty at the College in 1974. 
In addition to classes in goverment, Marcy has also lecured in the departments of modern languages and busi­ness administration and eco­nomics. She presently head the College's academic affairs of­fice. 
Jerome McElroy, professor of business administration and economics, received the Maria Pieta Award, for excellence in teaching freshman-and sophomore-level courses. 
A nationally-recognized ex­pert on Caribbean Island eco­nomics, McElroy has served on several U.S. government panels on Carribean develop­ment. 
The holder of bachelor's and master's degrees from St. 



Happy 22nd Birthday J.P (.May 23) 
Two days before your birthday you will graduate from Notre Dame. Congratulations on a job well done It was't always easy, your Dad will be looking down with great pride, we both are so proud to have you as 
our son. With All Our Love, 
Mom 

Louis University and a doc­torate from the University of Colorado, McElroy taught at the College of the Virgin Is­lands and served as director of planning and research for the Virgin Islands government before returing to the United States to teach. After two years at the University of Notre Dame, he joined the Saint Mary's faculty in 1982. 
Faculty promotions were also announce at the ceremony. Promoted from associate pro­fessor to professor was Rich-· ard Jenson of the department of biology. 
Promoted from assistant professor to associate profes­sor were Gerald Gingras, de­partment of modern languages; Donald Miller, de­partment of mathematics; John Shinners, department of humanistic studies and Douglas Tyler, department of art. 
Sally Ann O'Dowd, a junior from Fort Wayne, Ind., was awarded the Saint Catherine Medal, presented each year to ari underclassman demonstrat­ing high standards of personal excellence and scholarship along with a strong committ­ment to Christian ideals. 
O'Dowd has been an active member of Amnesty Interna­tional, Campus Democrats and the Neighborhood Study Help program, and has presented talks to local high school stu­dents on the plight of political prisoners around the world. 
Other awards presented at the cereomony included: 
• 
Dorothy Manier Writing Awards: Michelle Carusel, Amy Huennekens, Kerry Scan­lon, Marti Wilson. 

• 
Sister M. Franzita Kane Awards for Writing: Corin At­henour, Mary Catherine Jur­chik, Lynn Vanderbosch. 

• 
National Association for In­


tercollegiate Athletic Academics All-American: Margaret Halloran. 
• 
Saint Luke's Medal (department of art) : Megan O'Hara. 

• 
Sister Edna Service Award (art) : Frances Burke. 

• 
Mother Rose Elizabeth Award in Biology: Amy Moore. 

• 
George and Juanda Bick Na­ture Award: Jane Eaton. 

• 
Sister M. Rosaleen Dunleavy Allied Heath Award: Anne Parks. 

• 
Department of Business Ad­ministration and Economics Award: Theresa Prieshoff. 

• 
Wall Street Journal Award (business administration and economics): Ana Luisa Casil­las. 

• 
Mother Rose Elizabeth Award in Chemistry: Jennifer Brainard. 

• 
American Institute of Chemists Award: Deanne Wac­hel. 


Friedrich Hirzebruch, direc­tor of the Max Planck Institute for Mathematics, Bonn, West Germany, will receive an honorary doctor of science. 
John Kennedy, Rousse Pro­fessor of Hydraulics and direc­tor of the Iowa Institute of Hy­draulic Research at the University of Iowa, Iowa City, will receive an honorary doctor of engineering. 
Most Rev. Roger Mahony, archbishop of Los Angeles, will receive an honorary doctor of laws. 
Andrew McKenna, president and chief executive officer of Schwarz Paper Company, Mor­ton Grove, Ill., and a trustee of the University, will receive an honorary doctor of laws. 
Clifton Wharton, chairman and chief executive officer of Teachers Insurance and An­nuity Association-College Re­tirement Equities Fund (TIAA­CREF), New York City, will receive an honorary doctor of laws. 
A separate Law School Di­ploma Ceremony will be held Sunday at 4:30 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
Andrew McKenna, 1951 graduate of Notre Dame, 1954 graduate of the De Paul Law School and honorary degree recipient, will speak at the di­ploma ceremony. 
Graduates of the law school will be presented their degrees individually during the cere­mony, which will also be the last event held in Sacred Heart before it closes for a year for renovations. 
ND 
continued from page 1 
University President Father Edward Malloy emphasized the importance of secondary education: "As a national uni­versity, Notre Dame has been the beneficiary of the excellent preparatory academic training of its students. We are happy to recognize the contributions of so many dedicated teachers in our local community. Karen McKibbin exemplifies the very best of the teaching profes­sion." 
David Gardner, president of the University of California and professor of education at the University of California, Berkeley, will receive an honorary doctor of laws. 
Robert Gordon, retiring vice president for advanced studies at Notre Dame, will receive an honorary doctor of laws. 

KPl4GJPeat Marwick 
KPMG Peat Marwick Congratulates 1989 Graduates who will begin their Professional Careers in our Rochester Office: 
Dave Warth Matt Sommers 
Good Luck to 1990 Rochester Area Accounting Majors: 
Jim Terrell Jeff Robertson 
The #1 w·ay to Remember NDts #1 Season­
The Limited First Edition of 
CHAMPIONS: Lou Holtz's Fighting Irish 
It's the book on Notre Dame's 1988 National Championship year! Written by Bill Bilinski, as­sistant sports editor of the South Bend Tribune and ND's beat reporter, CHAMPIONS is the inside story of the Fighting Irish's return to gridiron glory. 
CHAMPIONS is an attractive 208-page, $16.95 hardcover, featuring 16 pages of photos and a foreword by Lou Holtz. Copies of the limited first edition of CHAMPIONS are available 
at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE now! So don't leave for home without it! A great Father's Day gift! 
A publication of Diamond Communications, Inc. 
South Bend, Indiana 
''Bill Bilinski's fine book really captures 
D ' .\ M u. ,, D \ ll ~-~· '-f; 1 ,~ ;, • I 'I 1\, s the magic ofan unbelievable season. All Notre Dame fans will enjoy it. '!-Lou Holtz 
' D 

-~~---~----~--­
Friday, May 19, 1989
page 6 The Observer 
Notre Dame to award two

ND announces awards 
Special to The Observer 
Three graduating seniors and a graduated student have received awards from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Office of Student Affairs. 
Kristen Williams, a senior from Norwell, Mass., has received the John W. Gardner Student Leadership Award for "outstanding volunteer service beyond the University commu­nity." 
According to the award cita­tion, Williams is a recovering alcoholic whose "courageous willingness to talk openly about her own experiences has served to enlighten and inspire many of her peers and col­leaggues." 
She has done volunteer work at the Westville, Ind., Correc­tional Center; lived for two years at Dismas House, an ex­periment in which Notre Dame students and recented parolled prisoners live in community; and counselled adolescents on probation fro drug and alcohol­related offenses at the Parkview Detention Home in South Bend. 
In addition, Williams has spoken about alcohol and drug abuse with more than fifty stu­dents and staff groups at Notre Dame. 
The Gardner Award, named for the founder of Common Cause, was established in 1986 by University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh with money he received as a recipient of the Independent Sector's first John Gardner Leadership Award. 
Patrick Cooke, a senior from Chicago, has received the A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C. Award. 
The Collins Award 
SMC 
continued from page 1 In a separate ceremony, 19 graduates of the Saint Mary's nursing program will partici­pate in the Nurses Pinning Cer­emony today at 1 p.m. in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto . The ceremony represents the graduate's entry into the nur­sing profession. Students receive their nursing school pin, which signifies service to humanity, and represents the school's ideals and principles. 
memorializes a Holy Cross priest who was Notre Dame's dean of students from 1957 to 1965. 
According to the citation, Cooke is a "warm and Christ­ian man" who "never stops searching for the truth ... never seems to lose his sense of integrity . . . and tries al­ways to retain his sense of humor no matter what the pres­sure of who is applying it." 
Cooke was elected president of the student body during his junior year. During his senior year, he chaired numerous senior class events and helped organize the Christmas in April program, in which Notre Dame students joined local volun­teers for a housing rehabilita­tion project in a poor neighbor­hood of South Bend. 
Michael Paese, a senior from Harrisburg, Penn., has received a special student af­fairs award. According to the citation, Paese has been "will­ing to risk popularity and to take on the lonely position of true leadership in order to benefit the larger communi­ty." 
In addition to serving as stu­dent body vice president during his senior year, Paese chaired a committee of students which prepared a report on Notre Dame's intellectual life for the University's trustees. Last year he brought both candi­dates for Indiana's third con­gressional district seat to Notre Dame campus for a debate. 
Victor Krebs, a graduate stu­dent in philosophy from South Bend, has received a special student affairs award for "his extraordinary leadership role among Notre Dame students." 
Krebs, who organized and chaired a committee of graduate students to report to the University's trustees on graduate student life, has recently completed a term as president of the Graduate Stu­dent Union. 

He rewrote the Graduate Stu­dent Union constitution, ar­ranged for the opening of the Graduate Student Union offices in LaFortune Student Center, and sponsored a series of semi­nars involving graduate stu­dents and administrators. 
posthumous degrees 
Special to The Observer 
Two degrees will be given posthumously at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame's 144th commencement excercises on May 21. 
A doctoral degree in gov­ernment and international studies will be given to Joseph Sullivan of Pueblo, Colo. 
Sullivan, a Notre Dame graduate student, died in a plane crash near Cuzco, Peru on August 9, 1970. 
Sullivan and Notre Dame student Randall Heeke of Jasper, Ind., were among the 49 North American students who died in the crash. 
The two had been return­ing from a service project, sponsored by Notre Dame's Community for the Interna­tional Lay Apostolate (CILA) , to serve the poor in Santiago, Chile. 
<::l•lHv~n. who had pMSPd 
his doctoral candidacy ex­aminations in the spring of 1970, had hoped to return to Notre Dame that fall. 
A bachelor's degree will be given to Robert Satter­field of Encino, Calif. 
Satterfield was a senior business administration major and a member of the 1988 National Championship football team. 
He died January 19, 1989, of sudden cardiac arrest just one day after returning from a celebration at the White House with President Reagan honoring the team. 
A graduate and student body president of Notre Dame High School in Sher­man Oaks, Calif., Satterfield enrolled at Notre Dame without a football scholar­ship and joined the team as a "walk-on" defensive back. He received a football schol­arship his senior year. 
······························~ 
,. ~§ • 

COLLEGE GRADS 
. \'\\.)\}.•• .

=. ~~®~·· : 
INTERESfED IN INVESTING YOUR DEGREE



: ~~ ······ : 
: ~~···· : 
~~···tb)J®~~ ~ 
: ([[lffiffi(]Jffi~ g ~ 
•
•
• 
•
•

• • GOOD LUCK!
•
•

• WE'LL MISS YOU,
•
•
•

• -YOUR FELLOW:
• 

• LYONITES :
%•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

IN A REWARDING CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
____.. ___________ 
85% of the beHer paying .•• 
more •:reotive positions ore not to be found in any published source. If you are deserving of a better income or beHer opportunity, you need to access the "UNPUBL!SHED NONADVERTISED" jobs in Indiana and Nation wide. 
Send your resume, feller or calltodo,v for a free and confidential career osscs.:ment 
.------------------------------------------­

9100 Keystone ut the Crossing 
3l 7•846-8888
lndionopolis, IN .C62.CO 

1-8.00-759-6997 
INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANTS IN CAREER 
MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE OUTPL,\CEMfNT Alao ICKated In Clevelgnd, Columbua, Clndnnatf, l.<tulavllle, Boaton, long Illand, Phlladelahln. 4Md PIH.abut-gh 
Call 1'. Brown for an appolatrrwnt 
Congratulations Seniors of Badin Hall 1989 Debra Hassing Kathleen Lyons Suzann Waters Tara Gerard Carrie Thomas Carolyn Diorio Janette Smith Claire Harbeck Liz Majewski Jill Golan Angie Flood Jennifer Freeman Rosabelle White Ana Comas Kerrie Wagner Tara Farelly Katherine Lentz Rosalind Walker Elisa Arrillaga Mary Strittmatter Carmina Magnusen Nolanda Hutcher Jennifer Wolf Annette Barnhart Shannon McAllister Therese Dempsey Jennifer Kreykes Jackie Deneault Greta Pantle Dana Togni Maureen Connaughton Best Wishes from Badin Hall May 1989  

The Travelers Companies 
Would Like To Welcome The Following Graduate To Its Accelerated Management Program 
*ACCENT* 
Stephen Morse 


TheTraveler~ 
You're better off under the Umbrella.:g 
The Travelers Companies Hartford, Connecticut 06183 An Equal Opportunity Employer 

--~---------------------­
Friday, May 19, 1989 The Observer 
Mets homer out win over Dodgers 
scored Brady Anderson from third base. It was
Associated Press 
the only hit in the inning for Baltimore. which 





Viewpoint
Friday, May 19, 1989 page 7 

Grads ready for challenges 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
By Rose Pietrzak 

1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Chris Donnelly Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ·········---Molly Ktllen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blast Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Controller............................ Anne Lindner 
The ObseiVer is the independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni­verSity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admtnistratton of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as posstble. Unstgned editorials represent the opmton of the majority of the followmg: Editor-in-Chtef. Managing Editor. Executtve News Editor. Vtewpoint Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Edttor. Photo Edttor. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the vtews of thetr authors. Column space is available to all members of tha communtty and the free expression of varying opintons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
A very wise person once com­mented that "time was na­ture's way of keeping every­thing from happening at once." The words couldn't ring any more true. This weekend we will reach a milestone in our lives, one we have worked toward and anticipated. Com­mencement marks an ending and a beginning, While we leave so much behind us, we can look forward to even more. More opportunities, more chal­lenges, more milestones and more goals. 
The possibilities ahead are endless. We can forge ahead in a world that responds to change, that demands our in­put and that will improve as we offer our contributions. Though it won't happen immediately or all at once, it can happen and, hopefully, it will. 

The responsibilities before us are just as great. We can help correct injustices, we can develop resources, we can im­prove the quality of our envi­ronment, of our world and of our government. It's simply a matter of trying. We have ex­perienced success and can ap­ply it to future projects. Again, it's a process, a series of at­tempts and successes. 
In our own lives, our rewards will come with hard work, suc­cess and, above all, patience. Our choices will dictate our lives, but we must remember that as time passes, it will bring new choices, new situa­tions, new hopes. and new milestones. We may not be happy with situations that arise, but we must realize that everything happens for a rea­son and we must have faith. 
As the graduating classes before us have been deemed re­sponsible for the future, so, too, will we. Approaching the real world, we have the intelli­gence, creativity, fortitude and ambition to make it better. Let's change the world and let's take the time to do it right. 
Rose Pietrzak is graduating from Saint Mary's College with a degree in communications. 
LETTERS


Leave N D with the courage for change Farewell to the Class of '89 
Over the past four years, I Dear Members of the Class of 
Dear Editor: have written many columns in 1989: I should like to take this op­
Tom Varnum 

The Observer which have These are busy days for you portunity to extend my best severely criticized the admin­Third and long and the members of your fam­wishes and prayers to the Class istration here at Notre Dame. ily who are visiting the of 1989 as its members prepare I have battled them on co-ed speak your mind. I hate to do campus. Four years can pass to move on to new ventures. housing, divestment, and ar­it, but I must quote rock and quickly especially in an in­Commencement is a time of chaic sexual attitudes, among roll's favorite Hoosier, John vigorating environment like mixed emotions for many who other things. Because of my Cougar Mellencarnp: "If you Notre Dame. Great changes leave. Excitement, apprehen­constant criticism, people have don't stand for something, have taken place in each of sion, happiness, and sadness often asked me, "Don't you like you'll fall for anything." -your lives over the course of all come together during Com­Notre Dame?" My answer is Well, folks, it seems I've fi-these years. I know that many mencement Weekend. always an unequivocal "Yes." nally gotten the last word on of the friendships you have For those of you who are I criticize Notre Dame because all of you. I'll miss all the ·let-made will last forever. graduating seniors, it is my I care about it. ters of response in the paper Notre Dame has its own spe­hope that we have achieved our 
If you care about something, and creative insults on my cial traditions, sights, and goal in providing you with an don't you work to see it im­answering machine. You may smells. You have become education of the mind and of prove? If you care for a child, not always have agreed with familiar enough with the the heart. May your commit­don't you correct him or her my viewpoint, but at least I campus to call it your own. The ment to your faith in God and when they are wrong? I think know you read my columns and Dome and the Grotto, the Hes­to service match your dedica­Notre Dame is a wonderful that's all that mattered to me. burgh Library and the Joyce tion to your chosen vocation place, but it is far from perfect. (Warning: the following par-Center, the Bookstore and the and profession. Notre Dame I am proud to have graduated agraph contains sappy, idealis-road to Saint Mary's--these are has high expectations of its stu­from Notre Dame, but I still tic musings. Please forgive reminders of the people of dents. The tremendous contri­want to see it improve. I realize your most devoted servant for Notre Dame who are so pre­Dear Editor: bution that our alumni make to my articles probably had as big a brief moment of emotional cious to all of us. It is a special pleasure for me our society and to the Church an effect on the administration triviality.) On behalf of all of us here at to honor the Class of 1989. We is a testament to the impor­as Dan Quayle has in the White I would like to wish my fellow the University who have served began as freshmen together-­tance of those high expecta­House (sorry, I couldn't resist graduates good luck in the fu-you for these four years, I pray you as students and I as Acting tions. one last Quayle-taunt). But ture. I am reminded of a line for your well-being and happi­President. For those of you leaving with maybe someone out there with frorn "The Big Chill" where ness in corning years. May you You will now be leaving Saint graduate and professional the influence (read: money) one of the characters tells her find satisfaction in your work Mary's but before you go I degrees, it is my hope that you under the Dome will get the college friends, "I feel I was at and good friends to comfort and would like you to know how will take with you the best of idea that Notre Dame needs to my best with you people." I support you. May you never much we enjoyed you, how our traditions as they relate to change and grow. No one shall miss y' all (and y' all know stop learning and may you much we learned from you, your discipline. should sit idly by and watch who y'all are). Before you bring a compassionate heart to how much we hope for you, and Finally, a note of gratitude something he or she cares for leave, though, do me one last a world that suffers many how much we want to hear to all of you. You not only take slip into stagnation. favor. Tell your parents you pains. from you about your successes, from here, but you have made 
If you, my fellow graduates love them. It's real easy, just I hope to have the opportu­your work for important a variety of contributions to (sounds tacky, doesn't it?), repeat after me: Morn and nity to welcome you back to the causes, and your continued your colleagues, the institution leave Notre Dame with one Dad, thank you for everything campus frequently. You are growth. and to those of us who remain thing, I hope it is the courage and I love you. now a full-fledged Domer and to assist students who come in to stand up for something you Finally, in the words of the may this be both a reward for I salute you as soon-to-be the future. believe in and care about. Take immortal Dennis Miller, "I am four years of hard work and a members of that notable com­May the Lord go with each this attitude and apply it wher­outta here! " sign of the responsibility you pany of dedicated, loyal, Chri­of you. We are blessed to have ever you go. If you care for Thomas J. Varnum is graduat-now bear. stian women--the Alumnae of you as a member of the Notre something, you must con­ing with a degree in English Saint Mary's College. Dame Family. stantly work to make it better. and communications and has Cordially in Notre Dame, William A. Hickey Father David T. Tyson Be that one small voice in the been a regular Viewpoint col­Father Edward A. Malloy President Vice President world who has the courage to umnist. President Saint Mary's College for Student Affairs 
DOONESBURY 
ANDTH& I NE3V£R. R/016&7 5HCVWHAVt3 RICH&R. .I IT's AGR&W7D ! HOM& 57RETCH THATAWUST­.! TIM&, J. J.! A8t& RAT/3..,
: \ 
\ 

I N£ED ON&. MORE. 
A/AIRI6HT/ WH&N 
TAX 8!<&A!< 7D PUT 
YOU~ HOT; YOU'Re. 
YOU AWAY! C'MON1 
HQTl GIVe MEA 
OAMN...

StVtNl COM& TO 
"GOWEN Yt3ARS" 
= 
00

MAMA! /CARl?.'
I 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"1URN INTO HA!YOU 8/TTtR., W'I&I.-Y OON'THAVt3 OWMAN.8UY &NOU6H 
!0 FRJ!3ND5. 11 MON&Y/ I WIN!
I 
\ 

'It I had to live my life again, I'd make the same mistakes, only sooner.' 
Tallulah Bankhead (1903-1968) 



---------~--'""'---------­
page 10 The Observer 
Friday, May 19, 1989 
A blast from the past: the five top stories 
It's time for the inevitable recap of this retiring reporter's most memorable moments in sports at old Notre Dame--no easy task, as there have been several. 
But I think instead of doing countless other un­forgettable bits of Irish athletic lore injustice, I'll limit my list to the five which stand out most. Surely there will be disagreement, but I generally welcome that. In reverse order, our fifth runner-up is: No. 
5: 1989--Notre Dame wins college football's national championship. The 33-21 victory this past Jan. 2 over West Virginia may be higher (some may say number one) for a lot of folks, but to me it seemed a bit anticlimactic after a couple of wins earlier last season, which will be dealt with later. 
Lou's boys put up when they had to. But I think deep down we all figure(! bury West Virginia. 
No. 4: 1986--Da' Brothers of Manhood defeat Leone's Stallions in the finals of Bookstore Basket­ball. Perhaps a few raised eyebrows here, but I have a special affinity for Bookstore after covering as much of it as I have over the years. This game had it all--a tight battle between great athletes, a packed house at Stepan, emotional ebbs and flows throughout and the presence of my favorite athlete 

Pete Skiko 
Sports Writer 
to participate in Notre Dame athletics during my time here, AI Martin. 
Though Al's Stallions bowed to Da' Brothers in the final, those who knew and know Martin appre­ciate his gutty style of play. It typifies the average guy's effort in Bookstore Basketball, and it gives those of us who hate to lose at anything a role model for the ages. 
No.3: 1988--Notre Dame beats Michigan 19-17 be­hind Ho's four field goals.The first of the twelve in a row during Notre Dame's dream season was surpassed, to me, by only one other which is yet to come. Reggie Ho, one of the most humble (almost disgustingly so) guys you'll ever meet, became a household name after kicking the game-winner late in the game. 
No. 2: 1987--Notre Dame turns back No. 1 North Carolina at the ACC. Easily the most vivid basket­ball memory of my four years, the Carolina squeaker showed just how much a student body could mean to a basketball team. Although the diminutive Irish trailed by double digits early and often against the Tarheels, the crowd rallied Notre Dame to a miracle come-from-behind win over Dean Smith (college hoops' answer to Jimmy Johnson) and Company. 
No. 1: 1988--Notre Dame nips Miami 31-30, fi­nally avenges previous losses. There's no doubt about it. Seniors who remember the Gerry Faust era and the 58-7 debacle in Miami in 1985 tasted this one sweeter than anybody. I can't recall a more exhilirating feeling than watching Pat Terrell deflect Steve Walsh's two-point attempt with 45 seconds left. 
Bodies flailing joyfully in the stands, hugging ran­dom fellow Domers and watching Johnson curse under his breath while trying to keep a stiff upper lip made this moment number one for me. It's a gal!le that I'll always remember, a game about which we can truly tell our kids and grandkids, "We were there. " 

Bennett meets sports bigwigs in effort to battle drug abuse 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON --Drug czar William J. bennett engaged in a little give-and-take during a meeting with commissioners and player representives of several professional sports, but he indicated he may take a stronger stand when the group meets again this summer. 
Bennett, who is devising ana­tional drug policy, said he spent much of Wednesday's 90­minute meeting exchanging ideas with sports officials on methods to improve anti-drug standards for the country and for professional athletes. He was politely given several reasons why pro sports leagues could not devise a uniform drug program, and didn't even sug­gest that athletes be subject to random testing. 
"Surprisingly, he was not in there mandating that we have random testing," said Gene Upshaw, executive director of the NFL players Association. "That was music to my ears." 
Upshaw and his fellow sports officials, however, may just have to face the music in the next few months, when the group gets together again. 
"We didn't talk about ran­dom testing today, but we might talk about that next time," Bennett said. ''We'll get into specifics at the next meeting." 
Bennett gave the sports offi­
cials something to think about 
when he pointed out that pro­
fessional athletes adhere to less-stringent rules than he has prescribed for high schools. 
"I told them that profes­sional sports has to be part of the solution," Bennett said. "The question I put to the group is, 'While we are pressing very hard on schools and others to have tough policies, it seems only right that professional sports have those kind of stand­ards."' 
Among those at the meeting were NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle, baseball commis­sioner A. bartlett Giamatti and NBA commissioner David Stern. 
Steve Ryan, senior vice pres­ident for marketing and public relations for the National Hockey League, was also pres­ent. NHL president John Ziegler was not able to attend because of the start of Stanley Cup finals. 
Bennett said he was inter­ested in getting the opinions of high-ranking sports officials because most athletes are con­sidered role models by children, and thus should set an example for the country's youth. 
"Pro sports play an impor­tant part in American life," Bennett said. "If they are so important, and they do have such a hold on the American imagination, then this ought to be the focal point of our effort." 
Stern promised that the sports commissioners would give him their full cooperation. 
"We told the czar that he has one of the most important jobs in the country," Stern said. "We pledge our support ... we will be working together, all of the sports, to support him in his efforts that have come so central to everything that is now going on in this country in terms of the ravages of drugs in our schools, our workplace and our streets." 

Bob, It all came true--We're proud of you Congratulations! 
Dad, Sue, Bill, Mary, Chris, Mary, Martha, Mike, John & Joanne 
GRADUATION GIFTS Visit the Country Harvester for your last minute gift-buying. 
LOCATED IN LAFORTUNE Hours: Thurs. Fri 12-5:30 Sat 11-3 
239-6714 


p=::::::~~=-~11!'1 
RHlHTIONS 
i" IN uT.. :::.:~ 
OOMl ...;.j:.l 
11' "1 1 • '1111 1 1111111 " 
ONCE UPOII ATIME ••• When Notre Dame was not so big, nor nearlv as famous as she is today. the makers of the ""Notre Dame Mystique"" walked the campus. Take a trip through time in the first-person singular with twenty-four of Notre Dame·~ more distinguished writers, including Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Prof. Ed Fischer, Prof Tom Stritch. Prof. Robert Leader, Gov. John Gilligan. Alumni writers include coach Ray Meyer, F.d Haggar, Con­gressman Ron Mazzoli. Sally Stanton Mackenzie, and others. ""It's a nostalgic. impressionistic look at GUr university tl1mugh the eyes of those who lh'ed and taught here.·· To order REFLECTIONS IN THE DOME. complete the Cl>Upon below and return it with your check (o; charge itto 
'---------Y yuur credit card) for $11.95 per book (inlcudes $2.00 for postage ~nd handling) to: lbmmes Notre D~me' llookstore. Plea-;e send cop)'(ies) of Notre Dame. IN 46556. REFLECTIONS IN TilE DOME: SIXTY YEARS OF LIFE AT NOTRE DAME PLEASE PRINT: NAME ____________________ ADDRESS __________________ CITY, STATE, ZIP _________________ TELEPHONE __________________ For credit card charges, plea.-;e complete the additiooal information. CREOITCARD #---------EXPIRY----­SIGNATURE _______ -----------




COtiGitfiTULfiTIOtiS WILDWOMEtl OF WALSH GOOD LUCK fiLWfiYS 
Wendy Aitken Beth Ballard Caroline Berenzy Jennifer Brennan Sarah Cantu Kathleen Carney Sarah Carpentieri 
Elizabeth Crummy 
Erin Daly Jeannine Fahey 
Patty Ferrick 
Amy Galvin Kim Garrison Yulette George Corrine Glavin Christine Gregory Jane Guenther Andrea Hap Mary Healy Jane Heisel Melissa Houk Lisa Howard Susan Hrach 

Noelle Hrycko Lisa Jochum Patti Kase Megan Keane Anne Kelly Maura Kennedy Rita Lumeng Anne Martersteck Beth Mazza Cayt McGrath Jennifer McNeill Mary Bridget O'Neil Kathleen Quinn Jennifer Rawert Mary Anne Riordan Susan Rosenthal Karen Ruff Kristin Shepeck Mary Bridget Silk Jennifer Spong Melissa Wochner Nancy Woidat 

Diane Yu 
Diane Zipprich 

are requtrt:u w vtew a 1=;1 i:1UUaLt::S W 111 UULl\.."t: :SUIUt:
•Alumni will return to admire • J:Secause ot us mcremme amples are as touows: the fine examples of 1980's popularity, the Bookstore has videotape of "Saturday Night disturbing changes that have 
Fever." transformed the serenebeen expanded and now • The hippest students onFunctionalist architecture in campus are wearing plaid • Classic Rock stations no campus that was once set likecovers all of what used to bethe ivy-covered, weathered South Quad. The 21 story bell bottoms and platform longer play songs from the a shining emerald in the facades of Knott and building now includes 154 va­shoes. Wide collars and ties Beatles or the Rolling Stones. peaceful midwestern city of Siegfried halls. The pres­South Bend ...
tigious dorms are the most rieties of sweatshirts ranging are back in vogue, as are Instead, K.C. and the Sun­

Friday, May 19, 1989 The Observer page 11 

The Observer I Trey Raymond The Notre Dame baseball team and the rest of the MCC will continue the MCC Tournament throughout the weekend at Coveleski Stadium. The winner of the tourney will get a bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
Coopers
&Lybrand 
We are proud to welcome the following 1989 graduates of the University of Notre Dame to our Firm: 
He's got Rose info, but he won't sell 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --Mter getting a copy of baseball's confidential report on Pete Rose's gambling --followed by threats of lawsuits --a free-lance writer has opted to put the document in his memorabilia collection instead of up for sale. 
"I have been advised by my attorneys not to sell the report," David D. shumacher said on Wednesday. "I don't need the money, and the ag­gravation isn't worth it. I just want to wash my hands of it." 
Shumacher's decision ended day-long speculation which began when USA Today revealed he had tried to sell them the report, setting off a steady stream of calls from the media and several attorneys to the writer. 
Asked if he had been threatened with legal action over the possible sale, Shumac­her laughed and replied, "Legal action is not the word. It's been unreal." 
Despite his decision not to 
sell, Shumacher steadfastly tigator flatly said, "No sir." refused to to say how he got the Earlier, Shumacher said he report, who had bid for it or was considering "a moral how much was offered. He con-question" as to whether an firmed there had been a $20,000 early release of the report offer. would be prejudicial to the Cin-
Baseball commissioner A. cinnati Reds manager, who has Bartlett Giamatti, speaking in been the center of allegations Washington after a meeting involving sports betting since with federal drug czar William the start of the season. Bennett, said he had heard The report will now become rumors that a copy existed. The the centerpiece of Shumac­report, compiled by inves-her's baseball memorabilia tigator John M. Dowd, deals collection, the writer said. 
f"~''"""()~""'"~'"'"llm";;""'"'"""' "''"~"""'1 
I OPENINGS STILL AVAILABLE I i FOR THE COMING YEAR! i ~ SPEND ONE YEAR TEACHING II ENGLISH IN KYOTO, JAPANI 
5 SEE Father Graham McDonnell . a i ON i! Wednesday 10 May ! § Thursday 11 May §i at the Center for Social Concerns i i Contact Marv Ann Roemer 239-7949 i 
.lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUJj 
with allegations about Rose's gambling. 
"I know of no release of any document. I cannot believe it came from either side, frank­ly," Giamatti said. "It cer­tainly didn't come from mine, and I'm not saying Pete or his attorney would." 
"Theft is always a possibili­ty, but I have no reason to think that would happen," he said. 
Rose's lawyer, Reuven J. Katz, received a copy of the 225-page report last Thursday along with a letter from Giamatti saying the contents should not be disclosed or copied. The attorney said Wed­nesday he had no idea how Shumacher could have gotten the report. 
"I've taken extraordinary measures to protect access to that report," said Roger Mak­ley, one of two principal attor­neys representing Rose. 
Dowd, asked about Shumac­her's claim, replied, "I know nothing about it." Asked if there was any way Shumacher could have obtained a copy from Dowd's office, the inves­

BALTIMORE OFFICE: Natalie Illig 
BOSTON OFFICE: Bill Beston 
CHICAGO OFFICE: Jennifer Rawert Kelly Quinn Adrienne Quill Amy Rochon Patrick Hogan Mary Beth O'Brien Doug Weglarz Mike Moran Mary Ellen Cahill 
COLUMBUS OFF ICE: Carl Mayer 
HARTFORD OFFICE: Vikki Welch 
LOS ANGELES OFFICE: Steve Smetana 
NEW YORK OFFICE: Ed Hill 
NEWARK OFFICE: Mike Verbaro 
RICHMOND OFFICE: Maureen Curran 
ROCHESTER OFFICE: Bill Pelino 
SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE: Diane Yu Chris Hughes 
SAN JOSE OFF ICE: Sean Ryan 
SAN JUAN OFFICE: Victor Rodriguez 
SOUTH BEND OFF ICE: Mary Moore 


Good Luck 
and 

Goodbye 
THE COOPERS & LYBRAND COMMITMENT 
To provide the quality of service expected by our clients; to develop individual initiative and help our people fulfill their potential; and to foster a sense of teamwork -among our people and with our communities. 

We Love You! 

MCC Tournament action heats up at Coveleski 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

In a game that featured un­characteristic performances by both teams, a typical Evansville ninth-inning rally won the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Tournament game for the Purple Aces. 
Pinch hitter Joe Bernard slapped a single down the left field line to drive home pinch runner Kevin Krizan with the winning run to carry the defending MCC champion Evansville past Xavier 5-4 at Coveleski Stadium Thursday. 
Top seed Evansville, 30-24, will play Detroit in a winners bracket game toniight at 6, with the winner earning a spot in Sunday's final. Xavier, 20-36, faces in an 11 a.m. losers bracket contest. Dayton eliminated Butler 8-1 earlier in the day. 
"We were lucky to win," said Evansville coach Jim Brownlee. "Xavier made the plays, and we didn't. Now we're in to Saturday no matter what happens. That puts the pressure on some other teams." 
Irish 
continued from page 16 

"Boy, they have a good bal­lclub," Miller continued, "but what a lot of people don't realize is that we don't have a bad ballclub either.'' 
Mike Cloutier scored the win­ning run on Alan Budnick's double off Irish reliever Mike Coffey (7-2). Cloutier, who also homered for the Titans, has hit four of his eight home runs this season against Notre Dame. 
Detroit  has  beaten  Notre  
Dame  in  seven  of  the  nine  
meetings  between  the  two  

teams this season. A series in Detroit two weeks ago included two bench-clearing brawls. 
Emotion may have contrib­uted to Detroit's early lead. The Titans scored six runs in the first three innings off Notre Dame starter Erik Madsen. 
"It's a big rivalry," said Murphy. "We were a little tense and tight, and they hit the ball where we weren't." 
Dan Peltier, the MCC player of the year, kept the Irish close in the early going. His RBI double in the first and two-run homer in the third made the score 6-3 after three innings. 
After Detroit starter Mark Coburn fanned Peltier with the bases loaded in the fourth. the 
Titans exploded for eight runs 
in their half of the inning. 

Detroit sent 13 men to the plate in the fourth and got eight hits off three Notre Dame pitchers. 
Irish reliever Mike Passilla entered the game in the fifth and held the Titans scoreless for the next three innings. 
Notre Dame then mounted a huge comeback, scoring two runs in the fifth, seven in the seventh and three in the eighth to take a 15-14 lead. The rally, similar to many the Irish have · turned in since Murphy arrived last spring, brought back memories of a 1988 win over Detroit in which the Irish scored nine runs in the final in­
ning. 

Detroit rewrote the ending to this year's fairy tale com­eback. The Titans scored once in the eighth, then loaded the bases with none out against Coffey in the ninth. 
Evansville jumped out to a 3-0 first-inning lead on a rally that included four infield hits, two of them bunt singles. 
Normally one of the nation's best teams defensively, the Aces proceeded to lose the lead by committing four errors. 
Xavier, which led the confer­ence with 120 stolen bases, ran themselves out of a few rallies. Two Musketeer runners were picked off first base in the first three innings, and another was caught stealing. 
Xavier cut Evansville's lead to a run with a two-run third that featured doubles by Brian Davis and John Gardon. 
The Musketeers tied the game in the fifth when Davis singled and went to third on two Evansville errors. He scored from third when Eric Antos­zewski hit into a double play. 
Xavier starter Scott Gordon (6-5), who pitched in spite of a sore shoulder, held Evansville in check after the three-run first inning. 
"He came in at 90 percent," said Redwine. "We felt a 90 percent Scott Gordon was bet-
Coffey found a way to get out of that jam, but Detroit came back the next inning to score the winning run. 
"I'm proud of our kids," said Murphy. "I'd rather coach these kids than anyone else. These guys have more guts than anyone. 
"We've got 45 innings left to play. That's what it takes to get to regionals." 
Sweet Home... CHICAGO 
You're Back­We're Here! Right in the Heart of Rush Street's Night Life. Make this summer 

something to remember. Come celebrate 
just steps from Oak Street Beach. 
664-7010 
I(RONIES & ELIOT'S NESST BELLEVUE & RUSH So Much Fun It Hardly Fits Under One Roof 
ter than the alternatives we 
had." After retiring nine batters in a row, Gordon walked Evansville's Brad Tyler with two out in the seventh. Tyler stole second, then scored the go-ahead run on Kenny Field's double. 
Xavier tied the game in the eighth inning, which saw the Musketeers load the bases with nobody out. Evansville reliever Greg Spalding (6-4) entered the 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
r I C§ft&~'t.,.,.:G'E .u~ ............ x.~ . rt ::c-.ii~~........ ....... ~· .,., . ,,,, t ,~.1(, :; 
I 

GIFTS FOR THE GOLFER IN YOUR FAMILY 
SHIRTS • SWEATERS -JACKETS -UMBRELLAS 
~ GLOVES -BALLS -HEADWEAR ~ 
GREAT IDEAS FOR FATHER'S DAY 

game and retired pinch hitter Phil Serghini on a fielder's choice. 
Davis then executed a per­fect suicide squeeze to score Pat Smith and reload the bases. Gordon tried the same play, but but Spalding recovered the bunt to start an inning-ending double play. 
In Thursday's first game, Dayton starter Tony Miller, who entered the day with a 2-8 
Enjoy your vacation listening to Great Tunes, partying with your friends and catching rays on outdoor patio. Don't forget every ednesday Night is College Night! Private Party Rooms Available. 
record and 7.52 earned-run average, took a no-hitter into the seventh inning. Butler's Sean McGould broke it up with a one-out single to right. 
Dayton already had a 6-0 lead, by that time, thanks to a four-run fourth and a terrific day by catcher Doug Waddle. 
Waddle hit a solo homer in the second that went out of Coveleski Stadium, then doubled to start Dayton's fourth-inning rally. 


I !:c I<=I ~~~~6D • •' ~~~ c~;:y''b~;': ~~~~:~1e I 
§ thD J a r l 0 l 0 U1 Serving your favonte § ~ ~ ~ ~ wine and cocktails ~ 
§ "THE ITALIAN RISTORANTE" Your host -Roberto Parisi ~
ISPECIAL OPENING GRADUATION SUNDAY 4-10 PM MAY 21 
Tuesday -Saturday 4-11 p.m. 
S. of JACC on St. Rd. 23
(219) 232-4244 
Enjoy an Italian Feast from a menu featuring authentic northern and southern Italian cuisine. 
Prepared for you by Mama Parisi, dinners include Veal entres, Fettuccine Alfredo, Stuffed Shrimp, ~ Rounder or Red Snapper, Lasagna, Prime Rib and traditional pasta dishes. Accentuating the =§_ -cas~:~al and candlelite ambiance of the dining room Parisi's exclusive overview of the ~ University of Notre Dame skyline and its outdoor patios and Bocce baD court. § 
§ Reservations for graduation weekend are recommended. ~ .IIIIIIJIIIIIJIJIIIIIJIJIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

Friday, May 19, 1989 

The Observer I Trey Raymond Xavier's Scott Gordon, a first-team aii-MCC star who plays both first 
base and pitcher for the Musketeers, took the loss despite a complete-game performance Thursday against top-seeded Evansville. 
Join The Observer 

THE VERY SPRING AND ROOT 
OF HONESTY AND VIRTUE 
LIE IN A GOOD EDUCATION 
-Plutarch 

A Special Thank You to My Aunt & Uncle Ann Marie Hargrave & Steven Altman For My Notre Dame Education 
Love Always, 
Kelly A. Daly Juris Doctorate 1989 
amnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnmnnnmnnunn•nnnumumtmnmmmnmnumtmmnmmnummnmtmnmmtmmmummnmtmtmnmmmmtmmmtmmmnmtmmtmumtmmmtmmmttlllll• 
The Observer page 13 
Jacobs gets back to the bases 
Reds, Braves beckoned, but he chose Irish football first 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
Frank Jacobs faced the $100,000 question a couple of times before making the final decision to attend the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. 
Jacobs, who had signed a let­ter of intent to play football at Notre Dame in February of 1987, attracted the attention of baseball scouts that spring. He batted .627 his senior year at Newport Catholic High School in Highland Heights, Ky. 
"I got a phone call from my high school athletic director saying that the Reds and Braves offered me $100,000 to play," said the Irish sopho­more. "They knew I was sig­ning with Notre Dame, so they didn't push me. The offer came late and after my decision, so I said no right away." 
As well as Jacobs played his senior year, he still was primarily a football prospect coming out of high school. Jacobs started at both tight end and nose guard, led his team to three state finals and one state title and was named the top player in Kentucky. 
He chose Notre Dame over 
Penn State, UCLA, Boston Col­
lege and Kentucky. None of the 
schools mentioned baseball 
during the recruiting process. 
"I didn't think I was going to 
play (baseball) again," said 
Jacobs, "but something inside 
me was saying 'You'll regret it 
if you don't.' " 
Congratulations 


to the 
Saaiors of St. Edward's 
Hall 
1988 
Jacobs concentrated solely on football his freshman season, catching three passes while backing up Andy Heck at tight end. He missed three games with an arch sprain last fall, but caught three passes and scored the last Irish touch­down in the Fiesta Bowl. 
By this time, Jacobs had realized his baseball career was not quite over after all. 
"I heard about the team and saw them out there practic­ing," said Jacobs. "I heard how good they were and how much improvement they'd made. Just looking at the field and the diamond, I missed it." 
Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz allowed both Jacobs and flanker Pat Eilers to join the baseball team this spring. 
"He told me before I came here that if I wanted to play baseball, I could," said Jacobs. "He knew I could have been drafted out of high school." 
Jacobs and Eilers had quite a task ahead of them. The two players spent the spring run­ning back and forth between baseball and football practices. Jacobs also had to readjust himself to baseball after not playing for a year. 
"It was a matter of manag­
ing my time," said Jacobs. "In 
a way, it helped me because it 
didn't let me get lazy. It helped 
me be more disciplined. If I 
wanted to play both sports, I 
had to work that much 
harder." 
Jacobs got a hit in only 11 of his first 52 at-bats for a .212 average, though he did have two doubles in Notre Dame's early-season 11-9 win over Texas. 
"Early in the season, I was tight," said Jacobs. "With foot­ball, I was pretty bulked up. Now I'm a little looser and more flexible." 
Since that time, Jacobs has batted .326 over his last 89 at­bats to increase his season average to .284. He also has four home runs and 30 RBI in 47 games and is among the MCC's top fielders with only three errors at first base. 
"I'm still not where I want to be," said Jacobs. "I have to get consistent, but I feel more confident now. I feel better with the bat than I have all year." 
Jacobs hasn't exactly made opposing pitchers feel confi­dent lately. As if his 6-5, 235­pound frame wasn't intimidat­ing enough, Jacobs has hit a couple of monster home runs in the last week. In Wednes­day's opening-round MCC tournament win over Butler, Jacobs pounded a drive to rightfield that traveled out of Stanley Coveleski Stadium. 
The previous weekend against Dayton, Jacobs hit an­other shot to right that went over the portable bleachers at Jake Kline Field and went an estimated 450 feet. 
"That one felt pretty good coming off the bat," said Jacobs. "In high school, I hit one further than that." 
Jacobs is beginning to reap 
the benefits of spending a 
spring working with both the 
baseball and football teams. 
"I'm definitely going to play my college career out," said Jacobs. "I have no other plans except to play football and baseball. I'm really lucky to be playing both of them." 

LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Take a l1fesav1ng 
Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red Cross 
!!! 
Impress 

~-~~----------------­
-~----~--­
Friday, May 19, 1989
page 14 The Observer 

Signees include six pitchers 
Special to The Observer ERA. He's hitting .380. (N.J.), who played on the Alan W alania and Eric Ramapo (N.Y) Junior Rang­
Six Notre Dame teams have Danapilis are the other Irish ers, and Eric Gregoire, a defen­geared up for their 1989-90 ath­pitching signees. Walania had seman from Northood High letic seasons by signing 17 ath­a career 23-7 record ar Derby School in Lake Placid, N.Y. letes to national letters of in­(Conn.) Notre Dame High Next year's Notre Dame tent. School going into his senior men's tennis team will include 
The Irish baseball team season. freshmen Chuck Coleman, 
counts six pitchers among the The only non-pitcher among Ronnie Rovas and Mark 
seven signees. Pat Leahy, of the signees is Bobby Kurtz of Schmidt, ranked 32nd, 72nd, 
Yakima, Wash., had an 8-2 Atlanta Marist High School, an and 33rd respectively in the 
record at Eisenhower High outfielder who hit .343 as a U.S. 18-and-under division. 
School in Yakima. Leahy is the junior and was 22-of-23 on Joe Piane will see additions 
grandson of former Irish foot­stolen base attempts. to his cross country and track 
ball coach and National Cham­••• teams with John Coyle of Chr­
pionship winner Frank Leahy. One wrestler has signed on istian Brothers Academy in 
Another Washington prod­with the Irish. Jamie Boyd, bro­Lincroft, N.J., who won the high uct, Chad Hartvigson, will also ther of Irish senior wrestler Pat school division of the Fifth Av­join the Irish pitching staff. A Boyd, won the Michigan Class enue Mile in 4: 12 this season. lefty from Kirkland Juanita A title last year. He posted a J.T. Burke of Xaverian High High School, Hartvigson went perfect 46-0 record this past School in Portland, Conn., who 8-0 with a 2.39 ERA and 73 season and a 164-11 career won the high school division of strikeouts in 52 :W innings last mark. the mile at the Milrose Games. season. Three additions to the Notre Ed Lavelle of Corona del Mar 
David Simmes of Miami will Dame hockey team are Curtis (Calif.) ran the second fastest pitch for Notre Dame as well. Jancke, who had 20 goals and high school outdoor mile in the A Class 4-A all-state selection 31 assists for Brooklyn Park country last season with last year, he was 12-1 last (Minn.) Center High School, 4:11.94. Dave Couch of Niles season with a 1.01 ERA. Dan Sawyer, from Kinnelon will also run for the Irish. 
Other signees include Chris ---------······~
Bayliss said. ·-~~----~~--~·· 
Michalak of Joliet (Ill.) Catho­
Pairings for the NCAA

Dilucia 

lic High School, who is a pitcher 
Tournament will be announced 
continued from page 16 as well as playing outfield and ~ 
during the week prior to the 
first base. He has a 6-2 record 




®.,J.

Feb. 4 came in a match at tournament. 
Southern Cal against Byron Black, currently rated 34th in the nation, against whom DiLucia had to retire due to a shoulder injury. 
DiLucia's Rookie of the Year Award marks the second con­secutive such award for Notre Dame tennis, as women's ten­nis team sophomore CeCe Cahill won the award as a freshman. DiLucia's primary competition for the award came from Northwestern's Todd Martin and Michigan's David Kass, currently ranked 41st and 42nd in the nation. 
"I'm excited for David be­cause of the caliber of compe­tition from this region, which included, arguably, at least four of the top eight or ten freshmen in the country," 
Senior 
continued from page 16 

a higher-scoring and more ex­citing future by recruiting what looks like one of the best classes in school history, in­cluding highly-touted 6-9 for­ward LaPhonso Ellis. 
And this past year... 

The minor sports joined the climb. The Irish volleyball and men's soccer teams earned their first-ever NCAA Tourna­ment appearances, while men's cross-country finished ninth in the nation and the wrestling squad landed 21st. The Notre Dame baseball team currently is battling for an NCAA bid as it hosts the Mid­western Collegiate Conference Tournament after a banner regular season. 
And with the young talent on the Irish basketball team, it looks like future Notre Dame students won't have to sit through a fencing meet to watch a contender. 
Come to think of it, the foot­ball season ended a lot differ­ently during our senior year than it did in 1985. The only similarity was that most of the country had changed the chan­nel long before Notre Dame's final game was over. 
with four saves, with a 2.18 TliE STORY OF THE IRISH CLADDAGH 
The Irish Claddagh :;tory began in the 16th Ce11tury wflen Richard Joyce, a native of Galway was captured by Algerian Cosairs while on his way to the West Indies. He was sold as a sla•'e to a wealthy Moorish Goldsmith who trained him In tha croft. His master took a great

Good-Bye 
liking to him and offered him his freedom which Richard vory happily accepted. He returned to his native county and settled down in the ancient village of Claddagh, just outside G<Jiway city,

Lewis 
where he designed and mado the firsr Claddagh 
The design of the Irish Claddagh is simple, but yet unique: The Hand Signifies Friendship,

Graduates 
The Crown Loyalty, 

And The Heart Love. The Irish Claddagh, because of its tradition and design grows daily In popularity and is being used interne.tionally as a token.of great friendship and love. 
Call in & see our Fine Collection of C!addagh Jewelry at University Park Mall (Opposite
We'll Miss You! 
MldLady Shop) Tel 272-6757
Best of Luck in the Future! 
Stop by on 

Sprong Holl Mall Harlem-lrvong Plaza 

Your Return Visits! 
W Dundee. IL 60118 · · ·"" 'hul. "kkdu.4 Chocago IL 
Fine Irish hnports 






CONGRA7DLA710NS 
Lynn K. Berry Melissa Killian Amy Rochon 
Rattiya Bhitiyakul Krisin Kralicek Mary Ryan Cecilia bryer Joelle Krucek Melanie Sanchez Chris Caponigri Angie Langer Sloan Satepauhoodle 
Maura Colleton Leslie Lawrence Whitney Shewman Tara Creedon Sandra McBride Robin Squyres Anne Freitag Kristin McCarthy Maria Susana Helen Gilboy Kathleen McDavid Allison Velders Patti Gontarz Katyhleen Mctigue Rosemarie Vizcarrondo Maria Gonzalez Michelle Mengel Anne Vonluhrte Maraya Goyer Colleen O'Connor Mary Kay Waller 
Terri hefferon Nancy O'Connor Melissa Weisse Deborah Ho Tracy O'Leary Vicki Wodarcyk Janice Hynes Theresa Olson Frances Wong Jennifer Jagore Michelle Pavelka Sharon Young 
Adrienne Quill 
The Fiesta Bowl wasn't much of a game. No competi­tiveness, and Miami was ear­
WE'LL MISS YOU! Love PE 
ning its rightful No. 2 ranking somewhere else. 



would like to extend a special thank you to all the seniors who invested their time and energy to The Observer over the last year. May the future bring each of you much success and happiness. 
The Observer would also like to thank Office Manager Shirley Grauel for all the time she has devoted to keeping the paper on track. 
Friday, May 19, 1989 
The Observer page 15 
CROSSWORD 
57 Translation for "nemo" 58 Dress, with "up" 
59 Greer Garson film: 1943 61 A Vanna turnover 62 Book of the Bible 63 Draft beer 64 Letters for an ensign 65 Flash 66 First word of N.C.'s motto 
DOWN 1 Co-Nobelist for Peace: 1925 2 Disintegrate 3 Flow together 4"-alive!" 5 Strike out 6 Actress Fabian of "The Goldbergs" 7 Beatles' "Eleanor " 8 Wavy pattern 9 Open courtyards 10 Revealed 11 Weave 12 Golfing pairs 13 Instrument for Stan Getz 

18 "The Last Time 35 Charley Weaver's -Paris" Mt.­22 Pitcher Ron-36 Some NCO's 24 Fisherman's 37 "Old place MacDonald" 27 Stupid one coda 29 Ersatz butter 39 Henna 30Westof 40 Green parrot Hollywood 44 Harmony, for 31 Left-out items short 32 Conforming 46 Explosion 33 Makes changes 47 Jet gear 
48"-ofTwo Cities" 50 Toper 51 Geometric doughnut 
52 Bagnold et al. 53 Poet Lizette 55 Calls K's at the 
plate 56 Actress Samms 58 Greek tee 60 Nanook, for one: 
Abbr. 

COMICS 
BLOOM COUNTY ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~:;+=~-:-+::-! 
..;.+:,:..j..,;+;,;.~ ;..+;....j..;.+;,.~ 

BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


·­
BERKE BREATHED 
5fJt.f/.. 8£1/M rJP SEVUY/t. f?RIJNI<. 50ROI?ITY G!/?1.5 
WITH SMIIU.. 
NO:f£5. VII-· \. I 


BILL WATIERSON 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

ACROSS 

1 They outnumber Reps. 5 Styling 11 Suppositions 14 Part 15 Former mayor of San Francisco 16"... ­thousand times 
17 Melanie Griffith film: 1988 19 Roast attire 20 Beats (out) 21 Shortener 23 Teeter for two 25 Voice vote 26 Name for a bear 
28 The-, rock group 
30 Director Forman 
31 One-kind 
34 Katharine Hepburn film: 1935 38 Joan Crawford 
film: 1945 40 Ginger Rogers film 1940 
41 Kind of man 42 Beauty expert Lauder 43 Mom's girl 45 Saudi region 46 Two-piecer top 49 Stew base 
54 Take steps to keep the house warm 

Chris Murphy Mark McLaughlin Sandy Cerimele Beth Healy Marty Strasen Mike Moran John Oxrider Linda Goldschmidt Todd Hardiman Mark Ridgeway Chris Hasbrook Jim Winkler Kendra Morrill Pete Gegen Kathy Huston Lisa Tugman Jim Wehner Susan Buckley 
Brian O'Gara Mimi Tuohy 
Rozel Gatmaitan Cindy Broderick Annette Rowland 
Tim Irvine 
Suzanne Poch 
Rob Regovich 
Pete Skiko 

BLOOM COUNTY 
VIJLCANS OR 
llON'T SAY flf?.INK 'feTCH~8()0ze_ ) 
\ 

I'M II "NOI/VUifJ-Vf!t.CIIN ~ IINf? Im TIIKIN& OVeR 
me :JHtf'. we'Re 
NOW ClN II FfV~-Y£fiR M/5~/0N fOI? C!fe"fiP 
fUASf/R~5. 511CRI/.£&6 
-'--J I 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
HI/MOf. HIM. WHfi1TI1 IU self? w~ OVT11 f?IXR£~ /?0? I?IS7Tf'C55 COt?e... 
l 


EAC\-\ Of>.'{ I COIJMT M. ltYJ~ Vt-lill SC\\00\.:S CNER. 1\.IEK I 
COO~i \l-It. Ot-.~5 V~TIL 11\£ ~££1(£K\). 1\-\EN 1 COO~T 1\1£ 
'WI£\CS IJK1\l iH£. t-\otm\ \'S 
O'lt.R, f.N.t>~HI, 1\.\t. '1'\0N.\WS 
U~TIL SUt-1M£R. 
\ 

I ~L'tlt>.~S I-IA.IJ£ TO ~E Wl-lf>.T 1 WANT TO Da FOR 
'til-It>.I I HAVE TO 00 .' 
BILL WATIERSON 
'«0\llD ~00 SIGN 
1\.\\S PA.Il.£1'\Tf\L £XCIJ<;t 10 G£T 1<1£ our or TI-lt. K'E.XT\1'/z 
C$-SCI-\OOL? 


Sports
paqe 16 Friday, May 19, 1989 
Dilucia
Detroit withstands 

gets NCAA
Irish comeback bid 

tennis bid
MCC teams battle at Coveleski 
Special to the Observer 
NCAA playoffs.

By STEVE MEGARGEE 

"We've had similar com­Freshman David DiLucia,
Associate Sports Editor 

ebacks before, but never when recently named Region IV 
Just when it seemed as you come back this great and Volvo Tenni&Rookie of the though Detroit's hex on the lose," said Irish coach Pat Year by the ITCA, has earned Notre Dame baseball team fi­Murphy, the MCC coach of the a bid to the NCAA Men's Tennis nally had ended, the Titans year. "Someone's testing us" Championship in Athens, Ga., rallied Thursday night to win The 4-hour, 48-minute marat­beginning May 23. DiLucia, 
16-15 in undoubtedly the hon lasted 10 innings and saw ranked 50th in the nation by the strangest game in Midwest Col­the two teams combine for a ITCA, earned a spot in the 64­legiate Conference tournament total of 31 runs, 37 hits and 28 man individual draw as the walks. fourth-ranked player in the
history. 

Detroit (29-24-0 now faces Notre Dame turned a Detroit Midwest Region. Evansville in a winners' blowout into a classic matchup, "David has won 12 matches bracket game tonight at 6 p.m. coming back from a 14-3 deficit in a row and 25 of his last 26," 
in Coveleski Stadium, with the in the fourth inning to take a said second-year Irish-head co­
victor earning a berth in Sat­15-14 lead in the eighth. The ach Bob Bayliss, "so he's really urday's final. The Irish (42-17-Titans tied the game in the bot­got some momentum built up. 
1) play Saint Louis today at 2 tom of the eighth, then won the From that standpoint, the 
p.m. to avoid elimination. The game with a run in the lOth in­tournament will give him a 
winner of that game plays ning. chance to continue with that again at 9 p.m. against the win­
"That's one of the greatest success. He's been on a roll. ner of this morning's Dayton­games I've ever seen," said 25-But the last part of our Xavier contest. year Detroit coach Bob Miller. schedule has been perhaps 
Notre Dame, which lost after "To lose that has to be dishear­more forgiving, so he's going rallying from an 11-run deficit, tening. I told Murphy, 'We'll be to have to jump right back into 
must win five consecutive seeing you again.' the kind of tough competition games in order to win the 
that he was seeing in the earlier tournament and advance to the see IRISH I page 12 part of our schedule." 
DiLucia, 38-9 on the year and 26-4 in spring competition, has put together a 10-8 record
ND signs TV deal with SportsChannel 
against players ranked in the By PETE GEGEN SportsChannel America (SCA), as will this package will keep them in touch with top 100 nationally at some point other selected Irish athletic events. SCA, all facets of Notre Dame athletics." in the season. Of those 18
Sports Writer 

a national sports programming service, This past year Chicago superstation matches, ten have been against 
SportsChannel America will become the is distributed through regional cable out­WGN carried four Notre Dame football players ranked in the top 100 at national carrier for a comprehensive lets. games and about half of the men's bas­the time of the match, all of package of Notre Dame sporting events The package represents an unprece­ketball team's games. whom were ranked ahead of beginning this fall, SportsChannel presi­dented amount of coverage of a single uni­SportsChannel America will have the DiLucia at the time. DiLucia dent Jim Greiner and Notre Dame athletic versity by a national cable channel. rights to and present national coverage of went 4-6 in those matches, director Dick Rosenthal announced on "It provides us an opportunity to present the following: notching an upset of UCLA's MayS. Notre Dame's athletic program to a na­• Live coverage of Notre Dame football fifth-ranked Brian Garrow in 
According to the agreement, all football tional audience," said Notre Dame ath­and men's basketball games not covered Los Angeles. His only loss since and basketball games not carried on net­letic director Dick Rosenthal. "Notre work television will be aired on Dame's alumni is national in scope, and see TV I page 9 see DiLUCIA I page 14 

It was the worst of times, it was the best of times 
"Due to the lack of competitiveness of this game. .." 
Those words from a CBS sportscaster marked the merciful end of our initial football season as Notre Dame students, as the network switched to a more interesting contest than the one we were either making jokes or weeping about. Miami talked a good game and then embarrassed Gerry Faust's Irish with a 58-7 slap in the face. 
We all felt it. 

Then we turned our hopes to basketball. Notre Dame finished the regular season with a 23-5 record and the nation's lOth ranking. We bought "Destina­tion Dallas" shirts, and then watched the season end in Minneapolis with a first-round loss to Arkansas-Little Rock. 
We were freshmen. We came to Notre Dame ex­pecting to win championships so we could go home on breaks and boast to all our state school friends. 
Instead we heard things like: "Do you think Lou Holtz can turn things around?" and, of course, the 
Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor Emeritus 

question that is still popular in many Notre Dame circles: "When are they going to fire Digger?" Our freshman enthusiasm was dampened. We had been let down by Notre Dame athletics. 
What were we supposed to say to our friends who went to Penn State or Michigan? Not to mention our classmates with friends at Miami or, by some chance, UA-LR. 
But those days are gone. We leave campus with some of that same school spirit with which we ar­rived four years ago, thanks to a place that obvi­ously cares a lot about how it looks on the field--no matter how much you hear about its academic com­mitments and other off-the-field priorities. 
Don't leave 

National Champions!
Notre Dame or Saint Mary's forever 
Come back to campus every day with a subscription to The Observer, Notre Dame's daily campus newspaper. Nobody gives you more on what's going on under the Dome. 

Sophomore year we caught a glimpse of what was to come, as Holtz coached what might be the most exciting 5-6 season on record. Five of the six losses were by a combined total of 14 points. John Carney made sure the 1986 season ended on a different note, booting a last-second field goal to dump Southern Cal38-37. 
The basketball team knocked off top-ranked North Carolina and Top 20 opponents Duke and DePaul all in the month of February, and was stopped only when it had to face the Tar Heels again in the Sweet 16. 
Junior year we watched Tim Brown dash and dazzle his way to a Heisman Trophy, and the Irish earned their first major bowl appearance since 1981. Notre Dame was on its way to the top, despite a 35-10 loss to Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl. 
The Digger complaints resurfaced after a first­round tournament loss to SMU, but Phelps ensured 
see SENIOR I page 14 
Send subscriptions to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
$25 per semester $40 per school year 







