
More white stuff 
:=1A=C=C=E=N=T=:=A=m==y=G=r=a=nt=r=e=v=ie=w================l [.: · · .-·.-_:~ 
Cloudy with a 60 percent 
chance of snow. Accumulation 
possible. High of 25, low of 5. 

IL.,__V_I_EW_P_O_IN_T_:_V_a_r_si_ty_D_e_ba_t_e_a_m_u_s_t---~~~~~_-.-:_ 

North called 'I iar' 
' 


'patriotic' in trial 
Associated Press ways acted with the approval of his superiors; he acted al­
WASHINGTON-Oliver ways with the best interests of North's criminal trial opened his country." Tuesday with the prosecutor Thus the two sides squared portraying him as a liar who off for the oft-delayed first trial "places himself above the law" to come out of the Iran-Contra but with North's lawyer affair, a trial that may take as defending him as a patriotic much as five months to com­Marine who obeyed unflinch­plete. ingly the orders of his com­The first testimony comes mander in chief. Wednesday morning when 
North, now retired from the Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., the service, listened intently as former chairman of House In­prosecutor John Keker told the telligence Committee, takes jury the defendant had lied the stand. time and again to his president Keker told the jury Tuesday and to Congress about the Iran­that North had profited per­Contra affair. sonally by using traveler's 
Chief defense lawyer Bren­checks furnished by a Contra dan Sullivan countered that leader and, on a broader scale, North, a former top National had told lies that amounted to Government lecture Security Council aide, worked 
in a secret world where "heal-see NORTH, page 5 David Ellwood speaks at a lecture Tuesday evening Department of Government and International Studies. in Hayes-Healey. The lecture was sponsored by the 
Results of honor code survey positive and encouraging 

By KELLEY TUTHILL discontinued, according to Wil­"Would you be willing to sophomores said yes, 11 said realize that teaching a moral Staff Reporter liams. report an honor code viola­no, two were unsure and one education is another way to ed­The survey was sent out to tion?" was one of the survey did not answer. Of the juniors ucate." 
In a recent mail survey con­800 students, 200 from each questions. Twenty-three fresh­and seniors polled, 39 said yes, Williams said that the com­ducted by the Honor Code Com­class. The students were ran­men and sophomores said yes, 14 said no and two were unsure. mittee has not been successful mittee, 99 out of 148 students domly selected by a computer. 53 said no, nine were not sure Eight students who did not in communicating why the who replied either said that the Fifty-one freshman, 36 sop­and two did not answer. Of the specify class said yes and two honor code was instituted. He honor code should be contin­homores, 23 juniors, 32 seniors juniors and senior who were said no. said that people seem to think ued, or that they are undecided. and 10 unidentified students polled 12 said yes, 38 said no, One question asked of the stu­that the honor code was in­
"The results are very posi­replied. four were not sure and one did dents, "Does the faculty seem stituted to cut down on cheat­tive," said Associate Provost Fifty-seven students said to not answer. Of the students who to support the honor code?" ing, which is not the purpose of Father Oliver Williams, the continue the honor code, 50 said did not specify their class, two Fifty-six freshman and sop­the honor code. code's active administrator. discontinue, 42 were not sure, replied yes and eight no. homores said yes, 22 said no, As to why the honor code was He added that the results are one said to modify it and two Williams said that he finds eight were not sure and one did instituted, one senior an­especially positive because the did not vote. the results of this question not answer. Of the juniors and swered, "(the) University felt code is an experiment. Forty-one of the 57 students troublesome. "People have a seniors, 23 said yes, 24 said no, it couldn't rely on the honesty 
who were in favor of the honor fear of reporting someone," he eight were not sure. Seven of of its students." A freshman 
The one-third of the students code were freshmen and sop­said. the students who did not specify said, "To prevent students surveyed who are undecided homores. Williams said that he Students were also asked, their year said yes, one said no from cheating.'' are "open to think more about finds this statistic encouraging "Would you be willing to per­and two were not sure. Many students suggested the code," said Williams. The because the committee spent suade another student not to "The faculty sees the honor that the University instituted challenge is to reach the one­more time trying to educate the cheat or act dishonesty?" code as another educational third who want the honor code underclassmen. Seventy-three freshman and tool," said Williams. "They see HONOR, page 5 
Plans for Winterfest discussed at HPC 
By MAURA KRAUSE as well. The cost is $1 to see " Staff Reporter Attack of the Killer Tomatoes," "Animal House" 
Coming events for this year's and "Monty Python: Life of Winterfest were discussed at Brian." last night's Hall Presidents In other matters, the upcom­Council. ing presidential debate was dis­
Friday's All Campus SYR is cussed. Candidates for student just one of four activities body president will debate im­planned for the Winterfest. portant issues concerning the Also scheduled is a snow vol­student body tonight in the Cus­leyball tournament to be held hing Hall auditorium at 8:00 on South Quad. The tourna­p.m. ment, co-sponsored by Non­Also, Andy Shannon spoke to Varsity Athletics, will be held the council about the newly Saturday from 12:00 --4:00p.m. formed Environmental Action 
Also scheduled for Saturday Club. The club plans to start a is a free skate at the hockey recycling effort of paper and arena. The skate will last from cans around campus. A talk by 
10:30 a.m. --12:00 p.m. A stu­Dr. Ching on Wednesday, dent ID must be shown to rent Feb.22 at 4:30p.m. will "help skates. kick off our recycling effort," 
An all-night movie marathon said Shannon. beginning at 12:00 p.m. is scheduled for Saturday night see HPC, page 5 


page2 The Observer Wednesday, February 22, 1989 
IN BRIEF 

Kitty Dukakls is "terrific" after two weeks of treatment at an alcoholic rehabilitation center, said her husband, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis. "Kitty sends her best. She's doing very well. She'll be back in a couple weeks," said Dukakis Monday. Mrs. Dukakis, 52, entered Edgehill New­port in Rhode Island on Feb. 6. Dukakis attributed his wife's excessive drinking to "physical exhaustion, the stress of the campaign effort and the post-election let­down." -Associated Press 
A pig has allegedly been stolen by five city workers in Lake Station, Indiana. The five men have been charged with theft in the disappearance of a pig from a Lake County farm, authorities said Tuesday. The men allegedly stole the pig from a field while they were on duty, hauled it away in a city truck, then slaughtered it and divided the meat, according to Indiana State Police and city police investigators. One count of Class D felony theft was lodged against each of the five men on Friday. They were ex­pected to surrender to Lake County authorities on Tues­day, the police chief said. No trial date had been set. 
-Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 

Summer Opportunity for Pre-Meds and others: the 1989 Rural Health Care Trip is one week in the summer when you can visit rural health care facilities in Kentucky. For more information please call Mary Ann Roemer at the Center for Social Concerns at 239-4253. -The Observer 
The Student Body Presidential Debate will be held tonight in the Cushing Auditorium at 8 p.m. After the formal debate, the candidates will be able to answer ques­tions from the audience. -The Observer 
"Effective Resumes Workshop" will be held this evening from 7-8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFor­tune to discuss how to write a powerful resume. -The Ob­server 
Alumni-Senior Club Manager Applications and job descriptions are now available in the Office of Student Actitivies, Room 315 LaFortune. The application deadline is March 1. -The Observer 
Morrissey Manor is taking the children of St. Hedwig's Outreach Center to the Notre Dame-Louisville game on Saturday Mar. 4 (the first Saturday of Spring Break) . If anyone would like to donate their tickets please give them to your hall president or to Tom King, Room 338 Morrissey. 
-The Observer 

CILACSC Mexico Program is holding the first of four preparatory sessions tonight at 7:30p.m. in the C.S.C. seminar room to discuss "Mexico: Land and Politics." 
-The Observer 

NDE 4th Day welcomes NDE £8 participants into the ranks at the gathering tonight at 9 p.m. in Walsh Hall's South (Lower) Lounge. -The Observer 
Volunteering After College? Past volunteers will discuss their experiences with various volunteer organi­zations tonight at 8 p.m. at the C.S.C. as part of Third World Awareness Week. -The Observer 
Tutors are needed for the Student Tutorial Education Program on Thursday nights at the South Bend Juvenile facility. Transportation is provided and the tutoring is done on a one-on-one basis for one hour, 7-8 p.m. Questions and info call Jay or Phil at 283-1062 or Brad at 283-4133. 
-The Observer 

All students (male and female) are invited to an open meeting of Women United for Justice and Peace tonight at 7 p.m. in the C.S.C. -The Observer -The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Unfortunately, JPW was non-fun for non-juniors 
Junior Parents' Weekend has come and gone-­
Thank God. 
And now begins the official JPW Recovery 
Week. 
Take this scenario: 
"Hi John, how are you doing?" 
(Grumble, grumble) " ...exhausted." 
"Oh, you're not coming down with The 
Campus Cold, are you?" 
"No, I'm recovering from spending too much 
time with Mom and Dad, eating too much alien 
food, getting far too little sleep, and frantically 
searching for ties and socks that match not only 
each other but my jacket as well." 
"Poor baby." 
"And on top of it all, I have three exams and 
a paper due this week." 
When will the JPW Ordeal end? ... 
Granted, for many juniors JPW was probably 
one of the most memorable events in their three 
years at Notre Dame, but for the majority of 
the freshmen, sophomores and seniors stuck on 
campus, or in town at all, it was the weekend 
we'd most like to forget. 
I was one of those unfortunate many non­
juniors without a "plan for escape." 
I could have gone on the sophomore escape to Chicago, to the tune of $45. But why should I pay an extra $45 to get away from a campus, food, and my own bed, which are already paid for, to go to a place that I've visited many times, to spend even more money, doing things that I am completely apathetic about--all in the name of getting the heck out of here on that weekend? Spring break is right around the corner, and I'd rather throw my money away on beach passes than Marshall Field's argyles. 
This is not to say that there is absolutely noth­ing to do on campus JPW weekend--there's al­ways Theodore's, or even the Freshman Swim Party. Social alternatives abound. 
Of course, let's not forget the ever-popular ''spending-all-weekend-in-the-'Brare-so-that-I­can-destroy-the-curve-on-the-next-test-in-that­300-level-class-I -take-with-all-those-juniors'' 
option. 
I was tempted to try this one, but decided against it because it might leave me with noth­ing to do between 9 p.rn. and 3 a.m. for all of the rest of the week. Besides, why do today what you can put off until tomorrow? It just goes against nature. 
The only true option open for all of us non­juniors is to hang around the dorm, eat pizza, talk about all of the work we should be doing (the juniors aren't getting any homework done this weekend, so why should we?), and wallow in self-pity for our lack of motivation to do anything vaguely productive. 
Vicious rumors were even circulating to the effect that parietals were being cut to midnight in honor of JPW. Oh, wouldn't that have been just peachy? It would have been easier to send us all to bed without supper. Who knows what might happen between the witching hours of midnight and 2 a.m.? 

There's only so much a bunch of intelligent, (and bored-to-tears) students can discuss after solving the problems of world hunger, the na­tional debt, and the meaning of life. 
But don't we all look like such the studious little bunch gallivanting across campus with bright shining faces, carrying a packed nap­sack? My, all of the juniors' parents must have been heartily impressed with our apparent in­satiable thirst for knowledge, as they walked by all the packed study lounges Saturday on their way to pick up Junior for the epic JPW Mass. 
Mom is all too impressed: "It's so amazing how serene the campus is--even on Friday and Saturday nights. What an institution! This is the most amazing configuration of a student body ever concocted--everyone is so polite and controlled . " Then Dad pops into your decep­tively clean room, and together they cry when they say, "I'm so glad we're all part of the big, happy Notre Dame family." 
Now most of the juniors out there are prob­ably reading these as the words of a bitter and infantile sophomore. After all, I'll have my turn to inflict JPW on everyone else next year. 
That may be the case. 
All I know is that next year I will finally heed the advise of those who were wise enough to escape Junior Parents' Weekend. I'll escape the drudgery of JPW in London, and maybe think of all those 'non-juniors' as I drink my lager with friends in the Square. 
SAINT MARY'S PRESENTS: 
HAVE YOU 
EVER HAD A 
REALlY BIG 
SECRET? 



li"-m
,g
... A__ .....,.., lWfNliHH CfNlURY fOX Preser~~A GRAC!f filMS P~mm ~A PfNNY MARSHAll RalOM HANKS "BIG" fLIZABHH PfRKINS ROBfRf lOGGIA JOHN HfARO e-.:ANNf SPIRBfRG 111 GARY ROSS ~ HOWARD SHOAf Carroll Aud. Feb. 22-24 <)pm & llpm Feb. 26 lpm $1 Popcorn 50c sponsored by SMC History Club 
RAGTIME 

Design Editor . . . ... Alison Cocks Deaign Assiatant ................ Kathy Glina Typesetters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mike Kolar ......................... Bernard Brenninkmeyer News Editor.................... Colleen Cronin Copy Editor .............. Florentine Hoelker Sport• Copy Editor.......... Scott Brutocao 

Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Mike Truppa Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi Accent Editor ............... Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ........... Matt Murphy Accent Designer ............. Shannon Roach ND Day Editor .................. Kathy Burns SMC Day Editor ............. Alissa Murphy 
Thursday 7pm 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD! 
ne o.-ner (\JSPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday tbrouah Friday except 
Haggar Game Room
durina eum and vacation periods. ne .,.._.. is publlisbed by the students of the University of Notre Dune and Saint Mary's Colllae. Sublcriplions may be purchas­
r,J L .l. .JJ, 
ed for S40 per year (125 per leiiiCStcr) by writiaa ne ~.P.O. Boll Q, Notre FREE II 
SAIBT MARY"S COLLE.!!LJ
o.me, llldialla 465S6. ne .,.._.. II a member of ne AIMdMIII ..... All reproduction ripts are racrved. 
page 3 

N.A.A.C.P. to honor Dr. King 

By ANGELA MCDONALD News Staff 
The Notre Dame N.A.A.C.P. chapter will be holding a re­enactment of the march on Washington this Friday, February 24 at 6:00p.m. 
The march will begin at three different locations on the Notre Dame campus: North Dining Hall, South Dining Hall and the Main Circle. 
The march will consist of a candle light vigil and the sing­ing of "We Shall Overcome" and "Lift Every Voice and Sing." It will end at the steps of the Administration Building, where a special program will 
AP Photo take place in honor of Dr. Mar­
Selling "Poison" 
tin Luther King. Michele Mackey, secretary
A Beijing bookseller reads some of his wares Monday condemned the Japanese cartoon, with its accom­
of the N.A.A.C.P., said "over 
while behind him hang copies of comic books about panying toys and comic books, as poison and urged 
the past couple of years, a 
"Transformers," featuring characters from an the government to ban broadcasts of the show. 
great deal of time has been 
animated television series. Chinese legislators have 
spent rehashing all of the racial conflicts, because of the recent incidents that have happened on campus. We as students felt as though we needed to make a big impact on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity." 
The program will consist of a brief history of the actual march that took place August 28, 1963, dramatic readings in honor of black history month, a performance by the Notre Dame gospel choir and an ora­tion of Dr. Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream" speech. 
"This is an attempt to make everyone aware of the plight of minority students," said Joseph Watson, vice-president of the N.A.A.C.P. "We hope that this march will further the awareness and help to elimi­nate the ignorance and insen­sitivity that has taken place in the past." 
Europe retaliates to Khomeini's threats against author Rushdie 
Associated Press  against  author  Salman  murder and offering rewards  
Rushdie.  for its perpetration are deeply  
Iran recalled all its ambas­ In  Washington,  President  offensive  to  the  norms  of  
sadors from  European Com­ Bush  said  he  supported  the  civilized behavior," Bush said.  
mon  Market nations Tuesday  retaliatory  moves  by  the  The United States does not  
and Britain expelled an Iranian  European countries.  have diplomatic relations with  
envoy as the diplomatic battle  However offensive Rushdie's  Iran. Bush noted existing eco­ 
grew over Ayatollah Ruhollah  book,  "The Satanic Verses,"  nomic sanctions against Iran  
Khomeini's  death  threats  may be to Moslems, "inciting  and said: "I don't know where  
we'll go from there."  
Iran's  official  Islamic  
ATTENTION:  Grad Students, Professors,  Republic News Agency (IRNA) said Iran's diplomatic recall was in response to Mon­ 
Employees  day's decision by the 12 nations  
of  the  European  Economic  

Community (EEC) to withdraw their envoys from Tehran for consultations. 
Iranian parliament speaker Hashemi Rafsanjani called the EEC move "a big mistake." 
"The EEC decision.. .is a clear sign which proves claims that the issue of this blas­phemous book.. .is a plot de­signed by Western imperialism to fight true Islam," IRNA quoted him as saying_. 
"We do not fear such threats. ...We are prepared to follow 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 
The ttAZZ Com etition 
Musical Acts interested in competing, pick up application at secretary's desk on 2nd floor LaFortune. Limited to first 15 acts. 
8:30 -11 :30 p.m. Sat. March 18 at STEPAN CENTER CASH PRIZES 



FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
FRESHMEN CHICAGO TRIP SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1989 
MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY, ART INSTITUTE, WATER TOWER PLACE, LOOP, SEARS TOWER BREAKFAST, LUNCH, DINNER IN A RESTAURANT TICKETS MAY BE PURCHASED AT THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES OFFICE 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, STARTING AT 1:30 
P.M. UNTIL FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, ENDING AT NOON $15.00 ALL INCLUDED 


FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
our own path at a cost," said Rafsanjani. 
The confrontation over Rushdie appeared to be eroding efforts by some Iranian officials, including Rafsanjani, to strengthen ties with more nations despite op­position by fundamentalist hard-liners. 
Although Rafsanjani was not quoted as endorsing the death sentence, his comments indi­cated Iranian leaders were closing ranks in the face of retaliation for Khomeini's death call. 
President Ali Khamenei, a Rafsanjani ally, said Friday that Rushdie might be par­doned if he repented and apologized. Rushdie, a Moslem himself, apologized the next day, but Khomeini ignored the overture and renewed the death threat. 
The 41-year-old Indian-born author has been in hiding with his wife in Britain, where he lives. 
The Common Market nations stopped short of breaking rela­tions with Iran but said that in addition to recalling top diplomats, they would suspend high-level visits to and from Iran. 
Britain, a market member, went a step further by recalling its entire embassy staff. 

page 4 The Observer Wednesday, February 22, 1989 
Freshman Adviisory Council gets underway 
Special to The Observer 
The Freshman Advisory Council (FAC) is a group of freshmen who plan activi­ties for their peers in an at­tempt to make adjusting to college life less traumatic. 
Each dorm has one repre­sentative to the council. The group meets once a week, usually at a host dorm, to plan activities and discuss problems that their con­stituency may be having, and try to come up with pos­sible solutions to those prob­lems. 
The council has adopted the Cardinal Meridean Nur­sing Home for the duration of their stay at Notre Dame. The Center for Social Con­cerns provides weekly trans­portation for those freshmen who would like to share a little time with those less for­tunate than they are. 

The FAC is led by Presi­dent: Mike Ferguson of Stan­ford Hall, Vice President Ted Stumpf of Fisher, Trea­surer Jrulie Robertson of Pasquerilla East and Secre­tary Megan Wyers of Pasquerilla West. 
Any freshman with ques­tions, problems or sugges­tions may call the F AC office in LaFortune at 239-6954. Of­fice hours are: 
•Monday and Wednes­day: 2:30 to 5 p.m. 
•Tuesday and Thursday: 

1:30 to 3:30p.m. •Friday: 2:30 to 4 p.m. 
INS to speedl up processing of aliens from S. America 
Associated Press 
BAYVIEW, Texas-The Im­migration and Naturalization Service (INS) on Tuesday began erecting tents inside the fence of a minimum-security prison under a plan to speed up the processing of aliens and to jail those denied political asylum. 
The Catholic Bishops of Texas charged that they foresaw "the creation of the largest concentration camp on 
U.S. soil since the incarcera­tion of Japanese-Americans during World War II, a shame­ful page in our history." 
State Department officials began making recommen­dations on asylum applications here under a plan announced Monday to deal with an influx of Central American im­
migrants  and  speed  up  the  
weeding  out  of  "frivolo us"  
claims.  

Under the plan, applicants will get an answer as early as the same day and will be sub­ject to immediate arrest and detention if denied asylum. 
Before Tuesday, applications could take weeks to process, and aliens were released on their own recognizance while they awaited appeals or deportation. 
INS began erecting tents at its rural Port Isabel Service Processing Center here in case the number of detainees at the facility exceeds bed space. As many as 5,000 could be detained in tents within the 315-acre facility, officials said. 



AP Photo 

Television abstinance 
Anna Baker of Baton Rouge, LA turns her back to and if successful he would give her $500. The money the televison set as the rest of the family watches a was the motivation; better grades and vocabulary program. The nine-year-old made a deal with her were the result. father March 1, 1988 to give up television for a year 
The Texas Catholic Confer-recommendations for ence said the new policy "ig-accepting or denying claims nores the facts of life in Central for refugee status. America that are causing the Only immigrants who can massive influx of refugees to show persecution are entitled our country. The INS state-to asylum; those who come to ment speaks of 'frivolous' ap-better themselves economi­plications. Apparently any ap-cally can be deported. The INS plications by people who have maintains that most Central suffered dreadfully from civil Americans arriving in South war are frivolous." Texas do not qualify for 
The Catholic church has been refugee status. assisting aliens through A group of 45 Central several organizations and Americans, half of them from operates a shelter for newly ar-Nicaragua, were under review rived Central Americans. "Ap-Tuesday afternoon. An addi­parently the INS is unaware of tional 200 people were waiting President Bush's plea for a to be processed. kinder, gentler America," the The stricter policy began the statement said. same day the INS was allowP.rl 
Delia Combs, assistant INS to reimpose a policy restricting commissioner for refugees, asylum-seekers to southern asylum and parole, said two Texas while they await deci­State Department officers sions on their cases. Tuesday were reviewing the At the current rate, the INS applications and making estimates 100,000 Central 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111! 
§ § 
== == 
= = =
~ 
I = I = 
Rooms still available for § SMC Sophomore Parents Weekend. 
:i===-i 
Approximately 7 miles from campus ; Reasonable rates for our King Leisure and :: Double-Bed Rooms = 
I ~~~e; ~~~~ I 
~ $34.95 Double ~ 
i==-Call for reservations =-i=
Indiana Toll Free 1-800-922-7750 = or (219)256-2300 = 
Llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!!ll••mm..mm•m•m••m••m••mmm•mmi 

THE·EXTRAORDINARY·FLORAL·CQ 
Got the WINTER BLUES? 

Lush Tropical Foliages and Blooming Plants 20o/o off 1Nith Student I.D. 
Open 9-6 M-F; 9-5 Sat 703 W. Edison Rd 
Down the Road from the
e Deliver 256-7277 Stadium 
Americans this year will pass through the Brownsville area, the main entry point for asylum-seekers from that region. 
Single adults will be held in INS detention centers, said INS Commissioner Alan C. Nelson. The INS will put family groups and unaccompanied minors un­der less restrictive custody in 
TUE VARSITY SUOP 

40% off Fashions for MEN AND WOMEN 

*Tops *Short Set(women) *Pants (unisex) *Skirts *Jackets (unisex) 20% off all accessories -Discount good only with this ad 

facilities where they must report for daily roll calls. 
Many of the applicants showing up at the center Tues­day were unaware that they were subject to arrest if their cases were denied. 
"We didn't know about it " said Luis Vasquez, 29, from El Salvador, adding he would take his chances anyway. 

GREAT FOR SPRING BREAK 

Wednesday, February 22, 1989 
The Observer pageS 
you mistrust it then is a crime on him," said Sullivan. When Congress decided not nodding off. Sullivan noted that and not a defense." And yet, said the defense at­to support the Nicaraguan while the Reagan administra­

North 
Sullivan did portray North as torney: "Lt. Col. Oliver North freedom fighters in 1984, Sul­tion was barred by law from
continued from page 1 
a patriot, saying he believed in has in the end been abandoned livan said, "the president was directly helping the Contras, "a crime that goes to the soul the Marine motto "Semper by his government." angry...and he vowed he officials solicited funds for the of our self-government." Fidelis" --always faithful. would find a way to support cause from other countries. 
"You will hear he considers The lawyer said that North them." He quoted Reagan as saying himself a patriotic person, but "He lived with that Marine was the troubleshooter at the privately at the time, "If this there is no higher patriotic pur­Corps motto. He was always National Security Council, and Reagan ordered National Se­leaks out, we'll all be hanging pose than to protect our system faithful to country, to com­if ''a secret mission had to be curity Adviser Robert McFar­by our thumbs outside the of government," Keker said. mander in chief, to his family, accomplished, it was 'Let Ollie lane "to keep them together White House until we find out "To lie to Congress because to those whose lives deoended do it."' · body and soul and it was then who did it." 

codes or solely for the image that an honor code would

Honor 
foster. continued from page 1 ''(It would) bring the Univer­an honor code to compete with sity more into line with other other schools that have honor top national universities," sai~ 
Saini Mary's College Deparlmenl of Cornmur11r.n!ion & Theatre presnnls !he Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre production of 
by Jay Presson Allen frcm tre rlCMli by Muriel Spark directed by Julie Jensen; designed by Unda H. Wigley 
O'Laughhn Aud1tonum 
Satnt Mary.'s..CQlkge. 
lnlormolloo call O'l.aughiiTl BoxOflice: 284·4626 NOT!\ E DAME • INDIANA 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
a junior. A sophomore said, "To 'keep up with the Jones' --to compete with other schools who had one--a pretty poor rea­son, I think." 
Some students did indicate 
that they understood why the 
Administration instituted the 
honor code. "To promote a 
climate of honesty, to instill 
personal values of integrity," 
said a freshman. A sophomore 
said, "To uphold honesty and 
integrity of this University, to 
provide self growth of ethics 
and morals." 
"What do you believe is the biggest problem with the honor code?" was another survey 
question. Many students brought up the idea of turning someone else in for cheating. "Unfortunately, most people find it hard to turn others 'in' --I would personally speak to them about the problem before I 
Today's Events for THIRD WORLD AWARENESS WEEK: 
12:00 pm Brown bag lunch informal discussion with Prof. Patrick Graffney "Great Powers and Small States in the Middle East" Center for Social Concerns Coffeehouse 
8:00 pm Anyone thinking of doing volunteer work after college, come hear past volunteers discuss their experiences as volunteers. Center for Social Concerns Coffeehouse 
would consider turning them in," one student said. 
"The students do not want to be stressed or bothered with making sure no one cheats on a test while they are in the process of taking a test them­selves. This institution is too academically competitive to have such a code applied," said a student. 
The students were also asked what they believed to be the biggest advantage of the honor code. Williams said that most students seem to understand what the University has in mind. "The biggest advantage of the honor code is a clear statement of the academic principles ofthe University and the students' individual knowl­edge of these principles," said one student. 
Students were also given an opportunity to elaborate on 

EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
A PROGRAM FOR FRESHMEN WHO WISH TO LEARN MORE ABOUT A MAJOR IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
6:30 P.M. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1989 

ROOM 122 HAYES-HEALY BUILDING 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 



FRESHMEN 
1 

Real Estate Analyst


Program 
LET OUR 2-YEAR PROGRAM BE A PRELUDE TO YOUR MBA! Want' some rock-solid commercial real estate 
experience before pursuing your MBA? Then consider this great opportunity with THE PRUDENTIAL, the nation's largest real estate investor. 
We're looking for energetic. ambitious B.A.'s and B.S.'s (who are planning to apply to top business schools in 1991) for a challenging 2-year assignment in our Real Estate Analyst program. To qualify, you need a B + or better undergraduate GPA and a· strong mathematical aptitude. An intensive training program will help prepare you for real estate modeling and financial evaluation assignments. 
This program provides outstanding on-the-job training, experience, and exposure to real estate markets and top investment professionals. The Prudential offers attractive starting salaries with comprehensive benefits. 
To apply, send your resume and a copy of your college transcript, by March 10, to: 
THE PRUDENTIAL REALTY GROUP Chicago Realty Group Office Prudential Plaza, Suite 500 Chicago, Illinois 60601 
Attn: Analyst Program 
THE BIGGEST IS LOOKING FOR THE BEST! 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
The Prudential Realty Group 

ThePrudent1a18 
why they thought the honor code should be continued, dis­continued or why they were not sure. 
A student who said that the honor code should be discon­tinued said, "It is unfair for the students to not only be respon­sible for the subject matter of the course during an exam, but to also have the responsibility ...to be looking around for other students possibly cheat­ing." 
One student thought the code should be continued, "With changes. More student input, suggestions from this survey." 
A student who would like to see the honor code modified said, "One way to make the honor code work would be to grant the accuser anonymity from the accused person. That would mean the person who is making the allegation would not have his identity known." 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
Other announcements made at the meeting concerned SUB commissioner applications and junior dog books. Applications for commissioner positions may be picked up at the secre­tary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune, and must be returned by March 15. The junior dog books may be pur­chased this week during office hours in the junior class office for $10. 
.....--~----------------­
Wednesday, February 22, 1989
p,e6 

~------------~~ ~------~----­





Business 
Student Business Board Sl kicks off new gives experience to students issue for young 
By JOHN O'BRIEN committee include Student cording to Swope, the meetings Business writer Body President Tom Doyle, of the overseeing committee Student Body Treasurer Mic-provide an accounting of each 
The Student Business Board, helle Zinzer, the managers of store's business and serve as a formed less than a year ago, is the three stores, Student forum for new ideas. in charge of running a $160,000 Senator Pat Kiernan, as well "This year we have added yearly business. as Walsh and Swope. balloons to Irish Gardens' line 
The Board oversees the ever­Until Aprill of last year, the of products and also enabled day working of The Cellar, three stores were under the students to use a Visa or Mas­Irish Gardens, and Adworks, control of the business auditor tercard at The Cellar and Irish all of which are student of the Student Union Board. Gardens," said Swope. managed and operated. "These three businesses Walsh added that the board 
According to Dan Walsh, were all under the control of also was trying to add periodi­general manager of the Board, one person at SUB. The busi-cal poster sales to The Cellar's the purpose of the Board is ness were really growing and lineup. twofold. soon it became too much for "The administration has 
"The purpose is to provide one person," said Walsh. been very supportive and open fair and competitive service The Student Business Board to our ideas. When we wanted through the three stores and to was formed to center the con-to try something new they said, provide the workers and trol of the three stores under 'If you think you can do it, do managers of the stores with one body outside of SUB, Walsh it,"' Walsh said. practical experience," said said. Walsh said that the Board Walsh. The Board is an independent was also formed in hopes of 
"We are basically an over­student-run body, but two ad-stimulating new student-run seeing committee," said Tom visors from Student Activities businesses. Swope, assistant general attend the committee meetings manager of the Board. to advise, Swope said. Walsh added that the Board 
According to Swope, the "Joe Cassidy and Karen would be taking applicationsoverseeing commitee meets Leonard from Student Activi­for positions in all three busi­every two weeks and has 13 ties come in to oversee the nesses as well as the board it­members. Members of the meetings," said Swope. Ac-self. 
EngliSh wine industry produces dry sweet w1nes; growth is about ten percent a year 
push the great European rather than condemning it,
Associated Press 

vitages off the shelves, mainly identifies it." 
LONDON-A lot of English because few grape varieties wine should never have been can survive, thrive and ripen Wine writer Kathryn made, admits the head of the in the cold, wet climate. McWhirter says tactfully, "I English Vineyards Associa­But England's 360 vineyards think they're quite interesting tion. did produce 108,500 gallons of as a sort of rare-occasion drink, 
"Or, if it's made, it shouldn't wine in 1987, and the industry because they're English and be drunk, and certainly not sold gets about 10 percent bigger it's interesting to drink wines for money," sayd Geoffrey every year, Bod said. from different places." Most Bond, a retired British navy Most English wines are white have good fruit flavor, she said, commander. and more sweet than dry. but "they tend to be rather 
"But having said that, there They're best as aperitifs or ac­thin." is far, far less proportionately, companiments to white meat, bad English wine than almost fruit and salads. English vineyards are con­anybody else's." '''There is a very clean and centrated among the farms and 
English wine? distinct crispness, a fresh orchards of the southeast, but Yest, this land of lager lovers crispness about English wine, grapes grow as far west as and sherry sippers has a bur­which follows a very flowery Truro, in Cornwall, and one geoning domestic wine indus­bouquet," Bond said. "There even claims to be the world's 
try. is, perhaps, a tendency to most northerly commercial Even fans admit it will never sharpness and acidity, which, v uu::ya1 u. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Don't look for a sexy swimsuit issue from the latest offspring of Sports Il­lustrated. 
Sports Illustrated for Kids is aimed at the 8 to 13-year-old crowd, and publisher Ann Moore promises that the only people the magazine will show in bathing suits will be compet­ing in sports like swimming, water skiing or surfing, or will have "an Olympic gold medal around their neck." 
The magazine was launched in January after Moor secured quarter-million dollar commit­ments from 30 advertisers. Half of the 500,000 circulation is sold by subscription or, start­ing with the March issue, at newsstands. 
The other 250,000 copies are given free to third through sixth-graders in 1,000 of the poorest schools in the nation. 
They include places like Carter Elementary School on Chicago's south side, where the head of the reading resources program, Jessie Hamlet, says few students could afford a magazine subscription. 
"My teachers have been so grateful to have them," she said. "The kids love it. They say things like, 'You mean it's ours to keep?"' 
She hopes the magazine will encourge students to read. 
"It's something current, and the look of it is so nice that it makes them want to pick it up and read it. That's half the bat­
tle there," she said. 

Those are reassuring words 
to Moore, who says she worked 
more than 18 months develop­
ing and launching the maga­
zine. 

Improving literacy was one 
of the pitches she used in per­
suading companies such as In­
ternational Business Machines 
Corp. and American Telephone 
and Telegraph Co., as well as 
sneaker and snack makers to 
pay $250,000 each for a year's 
worth of advertising space. 
But the motivation isn't en­tirely altruistic. The magazine is expecting to make a profit eventually, Moore said. 

ND endowment is 23rd largest in the nation 
Special to The Observer to the survey. Notre Dame's growth was 2 percent, while Notre Dame's endowment other universities with $400­of $463.5 million is the 23rd million-plus endowments largest among the nation's grew by only 0.5 percent. colleges and universities, When only private univer­according to the annual sur­sities are considered, Notre vey by the National Associ­Dame's endowment is 21st, ation of College and and it leads all Catholic uni­_University Business Offi­versities. Its positions were 
cers (NACUBO). unchanged from NACUBO's 
Affected by the worst 1986-87 survey. 
stock market crash since the Harvard University's $4.1 
Great Despression, college billion leads all endow­
and university endowments ments, followed by the Uni­
grew an average of only 1.3 versity of Texas system with 
percent in 1987-88, according about $2.8. 
•



Give Congress its raise-if budget IS balanced 
By LOUIS RUKEYSER Tribune Media Services  call "the politics of envy"­in contrast, say, to "the eco­ be sure, and inflation came from ... who knows where?  citizen smce Oliver Twist has felt was his entitlement:  pay raise has two other virtues. It if is not claimable  
I don't know about you, but I'm beginning to feel sorry for those poor congressmen who failed so miserably in their efforts to slip across a 51 percent pay raise without actually having to admit  nomics of growth." In every tax bill since 1982, Congress has taken vitriolic aim at anyone who had the temerity to make more than its members did. It has scaled back the pension plans of dentists and corpor­ Certainly not from Congress' own non-stop spending, could it? Of course not; all that inflation must have come from somewhere else. Libya, maybe. In any event, inflation keeps on arriving, and even  "More!" But there's only one slight caveat: This time, I want them to earn it. Let us propose, not some piddling 51 percent increase­what self-respecting politician can be expected to  by Congress in 1993, the offer will be renewed annually, so that the incentive will be continuous. And there is one other small advantage that may cause less excitement on the Hill: with higher pay, announced in advance, we  
publicly that they thought it was the selssest idea since deficit financing. And in the great Capitol Hill tradition-that for every economic problem there must be a solution in the federal treasury, I intend to go beyong mere murmurs of civic sympathy to a concrete legislative proposal. After all, I think it's only fair that we try earnestly to do for them what they are always so eager to do for us. First, though, let's stop for a moment of pity, mixed with irony. The irony, of course, is that the United States Congress in recent years has been a prinicpal exponent of what we might  ate executives, even though such plans augmented the nation's embarrassingly low savings rate. It wrote vindic­tive ex-post-facto laws on tax shelters. It itched even to take on private health plans, presumably in the belief that the folks who brought us Medicare could do it better. Never mind that congress­men's own salaries were supplemented quite beauti­fully with everything from ultra-lavish pension plans to taxpayer-sponsored health clubs to Senate bean soup. If you're a "public servant," the least the public can do is serve you, isn't it? But time did march on, to  at the current "modest" 4.5 percent, prices will double every 16 years-so what's a poor congressman to do if he wants to maintain the two­home standard of living which he, his wife, and his campaign manager are con­vinced he is entitled to? Here's where I am prepared, out of patriotic compassion, to come to the rescue of these deserving legislators. I am prepared to ignore such distracting trivialities as the report that more than two-thirds of the new House members are already getting an increase from what they earned in the private sector. I want them to have what every decent  live on that? But a more sat­isfying 100 percent pay raise. And let us say openly that it will go into effect in precisely four years. The only proviso is that the raise will be held in abeyance un­less, on that date, the federal budget has been balanced without increasing taxes. Taxes, plainly, are not the problem. Federal taxes last year grabbed 19.4 percent of national income, precisely the same portion as in 1980. The exploding deficit has been entirely the creation of unchecked federal spending. Check it, fellows, and you shall have your reward. The delayed, but high~r  might indeed get better con­gressmen. Short of earning what would then at last be a merit pay increase, members of Congress would then have to live with the present system. If this then induced them to return to private life, reviv­ing after long neglect the tradition of one-term public servants giving brief unsel­fish service to their govern­ment, that might not be the worst result, either. But I'd rather double their pay, in return only for their doing what both parties have been promising for a generation. What could be fairer that that?  


Viewpoint
Wednesday, February 22, 1989 page 7 
Debate program should be varsity level 
There have been many positive reports of the Iceberg Debate series presently being conducted on campus. I myself had the occasion to attend one of the debates and came back thinking of the potential such a program has to foster discussion of ideas on campus. 
Rob Hennig 
ruby tuesday 

I do not believe, however, the Iceberg Debates are being placed in a proper perspective. While the issues being dis­cussed are important to us at Notre Dame, the style and ability present in the actual debates is somewhat limited. Like a good intramural basketball pro­gram, the Iceberg serves a valuable role in allowing participation by stu­dents not otherwise able to compete. 
While I applaud the effort on the part of those who brought the Iceberg Debates to fruition, I find it profoundly ironic that it comes at a time when the intercollegiate debate squad is being so sorely tested. While there has been such a new and vigorous emphasis placed on this intermural competition, there has also been an almost complete ab­dication of the varisty program here at Notre Dame. 
The administration at Notre Dame has decided to relegate the Notre Dame Debate and Speech Council to club status. Such a move threatens to kill a program already struggling for sur­vival. Presently, only a limited number of students compete for the program and the director is part-time. They are outmanned at debate tournaments by programs featuring many more teams, several graduate assistants and coaches whose full-time duty is to focus on the success of the debate program. It is the equivalent of Bethel College being asked to place Notre Dame in football. 
Surely the administration would never think to have an intramural bas­ketball program or the bookstore bas­ketball tournament without also field­ing a univeristy team. Why should debate be any different. 
Intercollegiate debate attracts some of the brightest and most promising stu­dents in the nation. In a recent poll, it was found over half of those individuals listed in Who's Who had some debate experience. Several presidential con­tenders, including Michael Dukakis and Walter Mondale, debated while they were in college. Intercollegiate debate serves as the premiere chal­lenge of the intellect available to stu­dents. David Zarefski, a well-known debate expert in the field and a former champion debater himself, compared the level of research in a year of debat­ing at the college level to that of a master's thesis. 
Some of the country's most respected universities have realized the potential of debate. Harvard, Dartmouth, Northwestern, and Michigan are peren­nial contenders to win the National Debate Tournament. The Universities of California at Los Angeles and Berkeley are powers in the Cross Ex­amination Debate Association national sweepstakes. Debate has brought ac­claim and prestige to these univer­sities. More than that, a large, well­supported debate community has invigorated the entire collegiate com­munity and fostered a broadening of communication. 
Perhaps what is the greatest irony of all is that Notre Dame used to have just such a program. In the early 1950s and 1960s, Notre Dame had one of the most repected debate programs in the country. Notre Dame regularly qualified to the National Debate Tourn­ament, reaching as far as the semifinal round. Notre Dame also was one of the founders of the CEDA value-oriented style of debate. 
Since that time, however, there has been a dangerous decline of emphasis upon the activity. The department of communications, the home of strong programs elsewhere, has seemed more content to produce plays than to promote speech. The department remains adamantly opposed to the pro­gram, wanting nothing to do with the debate team on campus in any way, shape, or form. The rationale behind such a position is, at best, a mystery. 
Pehaps the attitude of the communi­cations and theatre department toward debate is indicative of a larger disdain. I was shocked when I first came to Notre Dame to discover not a single speech course was offered. It would seem that a university so concerned with building tomorrow's leaders would provide at least one introductory speech course. Oral communication skills play a vital role in everyday life. For the department to ignore com­pletely this field is nothing short of in­credible. Perhaps the Department of Communication and Theatre should drop the word communications in its title to dramatize its true emphasis. 
The administration had been content to give the debate some small status by assigning it to the Office of Student Affairs. Yet with only a part-time direc­tor and no graduate assistants, there has been very little support staff. Fur­ther, after years of inflation and declin­ing priority, the Debate and Speech Council budget has been severely constrained. Even if the current squad could compete at the national level, there would be inadequate funding for more than the most skeletal program. 
Perhaps the attitude of Notre Dame toward its debate program is best shown by the office space allotted to the Debate and Speech Council. Before the renovation of Washington Hall, the squad had a room in the back, with the director having a private office as well. After the renovation, the Department of Theatre took over that space and now uses it exclusively for theatre activi­ties. The debate team was ordered to the basement of the Library, where no squad room was given and the director had to share his office with a graduate student. 
The program was subsequently evicted from even that humble residence. With the help of the Office of Student Affairs, the council was able to secure an office in the newly renovated LaFortune Student Center. Again, one room was given which the director had to share with another or­ganization. This past summer, the pro­gram was ordered out of that office and, again only with the intervention of the Office of Student Affairs, iven a small 

CARm£R GIOOP: 
$1.5 TRillioN 


oo 
cubbyhole in LaFortune. 
During these moves, the Department of Theatre has been uncooperative. While the administration has been help­ful, the powers that be have stripped the program of any remaining status within the University. To declare the debate team a club is to project a profound ignorance of the position debate holds compared with other in­tercollegiate activities. Debate is no more a club than the football or bas­ketball teams are clubs. A nationally respected debate team will compete in as many as twenty tournaments a year. Unlike any club, a debate team will be representing its university on a very high profile, directly competing against other universities. 
While the current situation is shame­ful, it is not without hope. The Iceberg Debate series presents an opportunity for many students and faculty to par­ticipate in the debating process. Such a move is a positive step. It is, however, foolish to claim this as being anything more than it really is: an intramural program. If this university is serious about debate, any by all indications it should be, a reversal of the administra­tion's decision to downgrade the inter­collegiate debate program is impera­tive. 
Notre Dame is too good a university not to have a top-flight debate program. It is time the administration and the department of communications and theatre put up the ante to make this a reality. 
Rob Hennig is a senior economics major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
BOMBSIIEll : 
$11mWK 



Doonesbury Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 


Editorial Board OJSerations Board 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Edttor·tn·Chtel  Chns Murphy  Business Manager  .. John Ox rider  
Managmg Edttor  Chris Donnelly  Adverttsing Destgn Manager  Molly Killr-n  
News Editor  Regis Coccia  Advertising Manager  Lmda Goldschmtdt  
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the UmverSity of  News Edttor  Mark Mclaughlin  Production Manager  Bernadene Shins  
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College ~ does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of  Vtewpomt Edtli:lt  ....Dave Bruner  Systems Manager  Mark Ridgeway  
the adminiStration of either 1nst1tuhon The news IS reported as accurately and ObjeCtively as  Sports Edttor  .Marty Strasen  Controller..  Todd Hardiman  
poss1ble Unsigned ed1tonals represent the op1mon of the majonty of the Editonal Board  Accent Edttor  Beth Healy  Graphic Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Commentanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column  Saint Mary's Edttor  Sandy Cerimeie  
s~ace 1s ava1lable to all members of the community and the free express1on of varymg  Photo Editor  M1chael Moran  
op1n1ons on campus. through letters. is encouraged.  
Founded November 3,1966  


-~ ------.......----·~~~ 

Accent
Wednesday, February 22, 1989 
page 8 


Christian music comes alive 
STEVE MEGARGEE accent writer 
A my Grant relied almost n exclusively on recent ma­terial during her concert Tuesday, but that did not seem to bother a near­capacity crowd at the Joyce ACC. 
The 28-year-old Christian singer performed 18 songs, 15 of which came from either her most recent album Lead Me On or the 1985 release Un­guarded. 
Michael W. Smith, a keyboardist in Grant's band who has co-written many of her songs ("Find a Way," "Lead Me On") and who has five successful contemporary Christian albums in his own right, opened the show. 
Grant is a three-time Grammy award winner who has dominated contemporary Christian music charts in the 1980s and became the first solo gospel artist to record a platinum album with 1982's Age to Age. 
During Tuesday's concert, she ignored several religious ballads from earlier in her career like "My Father's Eyes" and "I'm Gonna Fly." Instead, Grant sang seven songs from Lead Me On, a record released last summer that focuses almost as much on marriage and love as on religion, and six songs from Unguarded. 

The concert opened with "Love of Another Kind," the opening track on Unguarded. From there, Grant's band performed an assortment of songs from Unguarded and Lead Me On, with "Everywhere I Go" and "Saved By Love" highlighting the set. 
She followed with "Stay for Awhile," a single released on 1986's greatest-hits package The Collection, and "Em­manuel," from a Christmas album she released in 1983. 
Gary Chapman, Grant's wife of six years and a guitar player in her band, per­formed an inspired 20-minute set while his spouse took a break midway through the concert. 
Grant returned to the title track from her Lead Me On album and followed that with "Find a Way," a single from Unguarded which in 1985 be­came the first contemporary Christian single to hit the Top 40. 
"Find a Way" started a string of four consecutive songs from the Unguarded album, including "I Love You," "Wise Up" and "Fight." 
Grant left the stage follow­ing that stretch, then returned and sang "Angels" from the 1983 album Straight 
Computer dating service: 'A chance at romance' 

M L 
B 
Calvin and Hobbes 
~ 
= 
\1,_ ~ 

Ahead and "Say Once More," the last song on the Lead Me On album, for her encore per­formances. 
"Say Once More" high­lighted the show, as did "Friends," a song written and recorded by Smith which never hit the pop charts but has become a favorite at high school retreats across the country. On both these songs, Grant was alone onstage with only a keyboard and Smith and Chapman's voices back­ing her up. 
The rest of Grant's band also was impressive. Backup singer Donna McElroy showed off her voice during a crowd-rousing solo perfor­mance early in Grant's show, and Terry McMillen switched between the percussion and harmonica during both Grant and Smith's concerts. 
Smith, a singer who comes out of the Kenny Loggins and Richard Marx mold, devoted most of his seven song perfor­mance to material from his recent release i 2 (Eye). His high-spirited set alternated between upbeat songs like "Hand of Providence" and "Pursuit of a Dream" and ballads such as "I Hear Leesha," a song he recorded after the death of a teenage friend and neighbor. 

PAIGE SMORON accent writer 

T 
here is an answer to the dim social life (or lack thereof) at Notre Dame; an opportunity to do something to spark a new flame of friendship, or even a roaring inferno of passion. This weekend, the Student Union Board is providing a chance at romance. By participating in the first campus computer dating service, students can insure themselves an evening of intrigue and, possibly, ten­derness at the Campus-Wide SYR Friday night. 
Face it, another Valentine's Day has come and gone, and the lovelorn spent it sniveling under a quilt in bed, comfort­ing themselves with the one Valentine they received, a Hallmark from their mother that was so warmly per­sonalized, "Most precious son or daughter ... " 
Bill Watterson 


Sure, everyone's looking for a thrill, but how much will this highly technical match­making process cost? For one time only, this opportunity is available at no extra cost. When students buy their ticket for $3 to the Campus­Wide SYR held in North Dining Hall, they can simulta­neously sign up for what just might turn out to be the ad­venture of their spring semes­ter. 
'"Whether you end up with the love of your life or a new friend, you'll have a great time at the SYR:" 
The idea of a computer dating service on campus is a result of a SUB survey asking the student body for their in­put. There was a tremendous response for any social activi­ties that would provide ways to meet new people outside of dorm life. "You can't lose," said Lisa Mackett, SUB Campus Entertainment Chair­person. "Whether you end up with the love of your life or a new friend, you'll have a great time at the SYR." 
Perhaps the thought of spending quality time with a mysterious stranger is allur­ing, but what about those questionnaires that have to be filled out? Those probing and confusing questions that ask, "If you could be a pasta noodle, what shape would you be?" and, "What is your sexual preference?" can be so intimidating. 

Fear no longer, because SUB's computer dating ques­tionnaire only contains five questions, and none of them are designed to be too confus­ing. 
The questionnaire asks basic questions, such as your favorite sport, music, subject, weekend activity, and ideal vacation spot. If anyone gets stumped on a question such as, "My favorite subject is ... " the important thing to re­member is, don't panic. As any good SAT tutor will ad­vise, skip it and come back to it later. For the most part, there shouldn't be any prob­lems, the answers are all multiple choice. 
It's a small price to pay, isn't it? One can only imagine what will happen Thursday night when the risk-takers get the momentous phone call telling them who their date will be. Picture the way they'll pick up the telephone and captivate their potential dream date with their sultry voices, much like the viva­cious actors and actresses on commercials for those teen talk lines do. 
It can happen. Take the chance. 
------'"""-----~'"'""'-~~---------------~ -~·· 
Wednesday, February 22, 1989 page 9
The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
In the NBA Tuesday, the New York Knicks Bookstore Basketball XVIII signups are be shown Thursday at 6:30p.m. at the Joyce ACC defeated Houston 120-115, Washington shot down the scheduled for Sunday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the football auditorium. -The Observer 
Los Angeles Clippers 123-109, Seattle knocked off Great Hall in O'Shaughnessy. Saint Mary's signups 
Boston 96-91, Milwaukee crumbled Indiana 116-90 are Monday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Game A women's track meet scheduled for 
and Phoenix outscored Golden State 139-121. -The Room in Haggar. Each team must pay a $5 registra­at Meyo Track needs volunteers to help officiate it. 
Observer tion fee, and all Notre Dame or Saint Mary's stu­Anyone interested should contact Linda at x2563 or dents, faculty and staff are eligible. People with a Wendy at 684-4052. -The Observer questionable team name should bring another with 
In the NHL Tuesday, Quebec squeaked by them. -The Observer Wi nterfestvolleyballsignupscontinuethrough Winnipeg 4-3, Minnesota trimmed Pittsburgh 2-1, Friday at the LaFortune information desk. People Detroit beat the New York Islanders 6-5, Edmonton can sign up individually or as a six-person team. ripped Hartford 7-4 and Vancouver shut out St. A squash film featuring the 1984 Boston Open All games are Saturday, Feb. 25., in the afternoon. Louis 2-1. -The Observer final between Jahangir Khan and Mark Talbott will -The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 

Classifieds 
HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D. To everyone who saw CHARITY BALL MEETING!! WHAT? You don't have a date for your683-8889-2n-J097.
NOTICES 

THURSDAY, FEB. 23 dorm's SYR this weekend? Go to the
PERSONALS 

CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING 
7:00p.m. Campus Wide SYR with a group of TYPING AVAILABLE SORIN ROOM, LAFORTUNE friends Instead.
FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BEDRM 
HOME NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 Saturday night at Theodores,
287-4082 BE THEREII
LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review thanks for coming out. You were 
10 :30-Midnfte the best crowd Catholics ever had.
early. Kaplan-SMH reviews fo many 
This SATURDAY NITE Typln!fWordprocesalng FREDDY JONES SKATE for FREE at the ACC atatea available here In South Bend. 
Transfer back home for summer. Dis-•
WANTED 
I'd like to especially thank:

237-1949 THURS. AT BRIDGErS Winteriest
counts for Kaplan LSAT alumni. 
Reserve before March 2 Call 272-4135. 
-Theodores for letting us play.

COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire Ask for Sue. 
-Dan, Tom, and Matt for doing a

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL The assets of the Queen of England Mark Mclaughlin:
Mts., West. Mass. Good Sal.,room & 
professional job with the sound.

MRS. COKER, 233-7009. are worth over $7 billion ... MONARCHY
bd,travel allowance, beautiful modern SUMMER JOBS QUACK
-Susan's roommates who sure could 
FEVER...CATCH IT!

facility,must love children & be able to ALL LANDWATER SPORTS NEED MONEY? Sell your textbool<s for 
"Shake your tail feather." 

of following:CASH!! Hardbound & papemacks! Cash teach one the Tennis, PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS -The girl who sang the words to KING DAN
W.S.I.,Sailing ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR ATTENTION UCAM MEMBERS! Yea,
"Kick", because I sure did know Waterski,Besebaii,Basketbaii,Soccer LAKE we are finally going to have a meeting
or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK YOU HAVE THE SUPPORT OF THE 
know them. 

808 Howard St. just off of N.D. MASSES
LaCrosse,Wood,A&C.Rocketry, Photog­PLACID. CALL 1-600-343-8373 and a short movl-SO GET EX­Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. LOVE, THE WOMEN OF KNOTT HALL
-Steve and Pete for letting every­raphy,Archery,Pioneering, CITED! The meeting will be at 8pm In
one at the LeMans formal know

233-2342 P.S. WE'VE ALSO NOTICED THAT
Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp the L-Is Hall perty room on Monday,
about Catholics. 

Winadu,5 Glen La.,Mamaroneck, NY Complete haircut and style with Peg­SOME Feb. 27. All members please come andWordprocesalng-Typing OF YOUR MINISTERS BEAR A
-Karen, and all the rest of you

10543. (914)381-5983 gy; Special Price of: $7.00 for men and bring guests, friends, strangers,272-3827 STRONG
who gave the band the wonderful $10.00 for women. Calf Cosfmo's anyone, lust comelftlllftlftlftlft
compliments. -All my friends for thier 
RESEMBLENCE TO ROBERT RED­

NO Law school students to be reps Shapes and Lines for an appointment. 
tremendous support. 

FORD!!! SAVE TIME! "How To Report On a Book 
for Kaplan-SMH Bar Revl-courses. You won't be disappointed! 2n-1875. To a certain D. Beato•" 
Earn free bar review course plus S$'s. I climed the door,You Haven't Actually Read." Send 
Thanks again everyone. We had the
Call 272-4135. Ask for Sue. OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. and shut the stairs-
best time!

$10: Box 15071 Columbus, OH 43215 ···LosT···
Summer,Yr.round.AII Countrles,AII NICK a Dark Olive Leather 
COUNSELORS-Girls camp in Maine. fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-1 said my shoes,
jacket Senior Bar last Thurs. nile... II

Good sal,room & bd.,travel allowance, IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. and took 0/f my prayers-
found, please bring beautiful modern facility,must love Lost (No

children and be able to teach one ot the hlag re: Vf6, "Jack u A such A sweetie P." Is to Stepan Center & Found. I brushe<j my makeup,
Questions Asked). 

following:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing this for real, or is some prankqueen just and wash~ off my teeth-All are welcome to attend the Thanks.
Waterski,Soltbaii,Basketball, Soc­SUMMER JOBS clowning around? St. Edward's Hall Forum 
cer,LaCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­ALL LANDWATER SPORTS I pulled back my alarm,featuring Fr. Oliver Williams, the 
back,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS I need a ride to Boston for Spring Break. and set my sheets-Associate Provost, who will speak To all those who saw
Craft,Gymnastics.Call or write:Camp ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Will help pay gas! Call Susan X4434 on "Where I Stand on fnveatments CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING
Vega, Box 1n1 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 NEAR LAKE PLACID I shut off my bed,
In South Africa." The forum will ••• NICK thanks all you who
(617)934-6536 CALL 1-600-343-8373 Ladies, the Carroll dance is Friday Make and climed into the light-be held at St. Edward's Hall on contributed to his EGO! 
sure a Vermin asks you I Thursday, February 23 at 7:00 P.M. 
$$$ I NEED 5 LOUISVILLE TICKETS And all because.
FOR A 7ASTE OF THE THURSDAY

$$$283-2814 DAY /271-8639 NIGHT ADOPTION TO THE REDHEAD ON THE SECOND He kissed me Goodnight-.
NIGHT LIFE...

································································ Loving,secure married couple unable to FLOOR OF THE LIBRARY WHO USED Thanx 4 1 Way Good Sun. momg.
BRIDGET'S

HELP! Aide needed to and from Boston conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le­TO WEAR A CORNELL SWEATSHIRT: -the "Country Club"
presents

area for spring break. Call Katie X1335. gal.medical exp. Pis call collect Chris & YOULOOKEDAWESOMEATTHEJPW CORVALLIS CALLING 
\ LOST/FOUND ) Susan, 70:¥.!76-9751 Completely con­GALA FRIDAY NIGHT P.S. CAN ALL This Thursday from 6 to 10 p.m.
WANTED-LEADERS: EARN ARMY fidential. ME'S DANCE LIKE YOU? -A. ZETO & THE HEATONS
Come hear this West Coast sensationI!

LOST: SOMEONE TOOK MY RED CW ROTC SCHOLARSHIPS THIS SUMMER Friday N~e 10 PM SKI JACKET FROM THE CCE SATUR­Contact Maj. Warrick 239-6264 ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure Uve at McCormick's DAY NIGHT. PLEASE RETURN IT couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry JUNIORSiftllftl JUNIOR CLASS ZETO & THE HEATONS
BENSTAA, SCHMOO, RUS, MISS,

SINCE IT'S MY ONLY JACKET AND I SUMMER JOBSII Two of Mlnnnesota' wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­RETREAT-FRI.24-25 Sign up In Jr. 
LOVELY-LWOMAN, ASAKQ-DOLL,

CANT AFFORD A NEW ONE I'LL AS­finest summer youth camps -col· born child. Legal and confidential. Please Class OIIIC6'M-F,1-3 ?'a-Contact 
MON: Thanks for making my stay in the

SUME IT WAS AN HONEST MISTAKE. lege students to work as counselors call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-8n-STACY O'GRADY x1241 Theodore's presents tonight A Walt Dis­
infirmary THE BEST (under the circum­

I'LL EVEN GIVE A REWARD FOR THE and Instructors In selling and English 3574 ney classic
stances). You guys are awesome. Love,

JACKET OR INFORMATION WHERE IT and Western riding. Employment from GARBAGE I THE SHAGGY D.A.
A.

lSI PLEASE CALL SEAN-4784. June 8 thru August 13. For an appli­CORNELL 4:30 Wed esc Don't miss ~!! cation call 1-1100-451-5270 ext. 410 GOING THAT WAY 314? RETURNING Doors open at 8:ClO'Show begins 8:15
To the MAN WITH THE QUIVERING

LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­3112? NEED A RIDER? X2966 Disgusted at Campus waste? lecture RIGHT EYEBROW: I didn't forget you!
MILITARY FORMAL!! call BAET x1389 RIDE NEEDED EAST ON 1-80 TOWARD 4:30 Wed esc Michael J. aka "STINER" Happy 21st and 
Thank you tor everything this past

NYC, PREFEAABL Y TO AREA OF I desperately need ride back to ND from Happy Days always!! We love all your
weekend. Just wait till Fri when the germs 

LOST:Gold FRAME GLASSES since WILKES-BARRE PA OR ELSE ANYONE NJ on 3-12. Peter x2124 will share Recycling Info 4:30 Wed CSC wierd ways! Love ya, the 6 women of 
are finally gone!!! 

1188 please contact Carla at 4803 HEADING TOWARDS PHILADELPHIA dri..exp. Siegtried Ca, Cu, ET, Da, Ka, Me OR SYRACUSEA31NGHAMTON NY HEYI Wanna have fun Feb. 24? 
AIDE needed to York PA LOST:A BROWN PEN 
AREA PLEASE CALL NEIL AT X4051 Last chance to party before Spring Break, Try the ALL CAMPUS SYA Would you like to go on a dream
or general area (SE or SCentral PA, BaH.,

so do ~ right: At The Underground Sat. -Don't have a date? date to Chicago?
CASE(RENOMA)WITH 4 
etc) Will share exp. PENS(PEAKEA)ON 14TH IN 
HELP I need a ride to and from Atlanta Feb. 25 9:30 pm with After Hours -DON'T WORRY! 
or Birmingham tor break will share gas W~h computer dating we can Kelly x4416 That's just one of the greatO'SHAUGHNESS OR LAW SCOOL.I 
Chris# 1425 St. Joseph's Medical Center Is cur­match you up with someone prizes you could win at theLOVE THEM !IF FOUND PLEASE CALL rently accepting applications lor special! Give it a tryll "BACK OFF SUCKER! I"??? ALL CAMPUS SYR-Feb. 24KEIKO(INT'L PEACE HOUSE 283­
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT Playcare Providers In our early parent­NOT THIS SATURDAY NIGHT. THAT BE THERE!!! FISHERIES. Earn $800\Wieek in can­Ing program. Responslbllltlea Include IS IF YOU'D ACCOMPANY ME TO THE FOUND: A pair of purple ladies mittens nery, $8,000-12,000¢ for two months on providing care for young children STONE PUPPIES Acuostic Duo INFAMOUS LEWIS SYR. WHAT DO 
3943.PLESE HELP POOR JAPANESE!! 
fishing vessel. Over 8,000 openings. No while parents attend early parenting Saturday Night YOU THINK? YOU'RE PRETTY FUN­Doctor-Should I make an appointment?NY..FUNNY LOOKIN'. ANTICIPATINGin the ladies restroom at the Comp-Math 
experience necessary. MALE OR classes. Successful candidates must SENOR KELLY'S -Anne FEMALE For 52-page employment book­have prior experience In child care. YOUR RESPONSE. PIZZA? DID Can't read this ad? I tound your glasses!! let, send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box Own transportation to report to RIDE NEEDED TO FLORIDA FOR ANYONE SAY PIZZA? NACHOS YOUR BURNING FLAME 
Bldg. Mn.night. Call 3688 to identify. 
84008, Seattle, WA 98124. 30 day, un­varying locations. High school SPRING BREAK. CALL KAREN 284-PLEASE. PLEASE. PLEASEIII!! I
Found: Gold wire-rimmed glasses in hard 
cond~ional, 100% money back guarantee graduate preferred. AM, afternoon and 5439. desperately need a rida to Minnesota for black case on February 9th in rm. 204 
early PM available. Clauas are two Easter Break. I can leave any time after see again! 
Nieuwland Science Hall. Call x3781 and RIDE NEEDED:Going to Texas 4 break? hours long. Inquire In person st St. HELP HELPI I NEED A AIDE TO BOS­FOR SALE: 1972 hornet wagon. fully 2:30 Thursday, and I must be back by Have rm 4 2 more? Will help wlgas & Joseph's Employment Office, Pavilion TON FOR SPRING BREAKIJ PLEASE equipped with all the extras. one minor 1 :00 Tuesday. Kate X1259 ..• driving. Can leave Fri 3:00, need be back II, Suite 092, 707 E. Cedar, SB. CALL SANDY 284-5493. prob-this beauty has a cracked block, but 
LOSTI Set of keys on woodan name Mon. Call Frank x2101. We are an equal opportunity employ­otherwise it's a bitchin set of wheels. Call 
PEBBLES keychain, 29, evening, between O'Shag er. Suzanne lutz and Kathleen Flynn RIO­Brian for all the details ... 
AN "EAGLE, A ROSE, AND M&Ms. 
and BP. PLEASE call x1363, Colleen, NEED A AIDE TO DENVER? Leaving 
member when -used to talk about THEY MADE MY WEEK!! TO SAY I'M W"any info, ASAP!! on March 3, back March 12. Going to Inane Cosmo. artlclea, drink bad col· HEY STUDS! 
SURPRISED WOULD BE AN UNDER­Steamboat, Colo. --will drop along route I need a rida to Rochester, N.Y. on March lee, and smoke??? What happened to comming soon STATEMENT. PLEASE CLUE ME IN! Lost: black Casio dignaf watch (n ~ you'll help w~h gas, tolls. Call Mark 3 or 4 and Jbr a return ride to N.D. on us? the 
KEACH was in a tan glasses case); Mclaughlin at 288-3507. March 6 or 7. If you can help me out, I mfu the Oak Room dlacusalonslft SPANDEX GODDESS 
please call Mark at x1409. No call x1985 or x2876 (ask for Beth) I will Stretch; does Fr. Vi know??????? 
Chrf1,questions asked. Reward. help w~h any expenses! Where am I going to go to get Impor­
Thanks for the wonderful dinner on tant Info. boys Monday night. I Mel a -llyg-ttime
concerning and EASTER BREAK IN PHOENIX start 
TONIGHT!

bras??? I'm going to have to and look forward to seeing you again.
FOR SALE
FOUND: digital watch outsida of bus stop 4 nonstop confirmed round trip tix with tuning Into Sally Jeua Raphael lor THE BULLDOG BLUES BAND! 
Guesawhol by circle, on Sun ot JPW boarding passes, O'hare to Phoenix on advice HELP CENTER ST. BLUES, MISHAWAKA 
Call Tim at x1712 to identify 79 MIDGET EXC. COND. LOW MILAGE American Airtines. Leave Good C.N.D. BLUESIII LONG LEGSIREGGAEIII 
294-5699 Friday(:Y-!4), return 31.31. $844 for all 4. SUGGESTIVE L YRICSI 
HELPI I NEED A AIDE TO OHIO U. OR Elkhart, 293-4700, 8 am-5 pm, M-F 
COLUMBUS, OHIO FEB. 24-26. $ $ $ 
I LOST MY FINANCE 231 BOOK-I left I Too share a love for Biz Hesket
HELP ME PLEASE !II I need a ride to the CALL DEVON 284-5487.
small stereo tor sale call Jay x4662
in HURLEY om Wed. VI 5 Pandora's will autocratic rule is cool Buttaloflochester NY area for Spring not buy ~ so please return it. DAN FOR KING Break. I can leave anytime and will help PLEASE, I desperately need a ride to 
JUNIORS GET LUCKY FRIDAY NIGHT 
SPRING BREAK IN COLORAOOIII! Roundtrip from Chicago to Denver. 
BILL 1436 with driving and$$$ call BRETT at x2034. Central PA for Break. Will share toll and AT THE SMC JUNIOR FOAMALIII Lo­
gas$$$. call Guy at x3883. Leave 314. Return 3112. Call 2533. Price Interested in being a manager for 
CATED AT UNION STATION FROM 1G­TO THE GIRL WHO CALLED INQUIR­
2. CIRCLE BUS PICK UP.CASH BAR
negotiable. are now TOO II!! NIGHT: I'm sorry, the phone misconnec­
A little boy Is devastated. We lost our THEODORE'S next year? We ING ABOUT MY PLANS ON SAT. LAMBDA TAU PI Commando Unit--Mis­
small white dog with Ohio tags. With· accepting applications for the following sion Incomplete! But, Stanford ROUND TRIP VOUCHER ANYWHERE
out a special diet, she'll become very pos~ions: tion was an accident. PLEASE call back. Studs ... You don't have to dress to JUNIOAS!GET LUCKY!! JUNIOR FOR­IN THE COUNTRY. BEST OFFER. CALL 
Ill. Sizeable reward. Pleua cell 234-GENERAL MANAGER impressI! JEAN: 284-5421 
MAL FRIDAY.TICKET SALES END 1814. Portable state-of-the-art sound system
PROGRAMMING MANAGER 
TODAY!!
PROMOTIONS MANAGER SPROUT POWER I!! SPROUT
may be reserved from the Student Activ­OPERATIONS MANAGER POWER!!!
~ies Office. The system has 24 channel 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO OC
ACCOUNTS MANAGER Soundcraft mixing console, community AREA FOR BREAK WAS CALLand 14 assistant managers. Applications speakers, and lull range of microphones. 

BRIDGET 284-5112 
~FO_R_RE_NT----JII IL-_TIC_K_ET_S~·' 
available in Student Activities Office and 
Only charge is for operating technicians MARY MAHONEY WANTS TO BE THEdue March 3. Have fun while gaining 
Must be officially recognized organization NEXT OONALD TRUMPII II you sea THANX VICK, DENNIS, TONY, & JUAN4 Louisville GA's for sale.272-6306 
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK· practical work experiencelll to reserve system and ~must be reserved her on campus pleaa glv to this IT WAS FUNII BRIDGET, PAM, JULIE, 
FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL 
10 days in advance of event. worthy cauaa. Beware: II sh can't be M.G. & RITA.
I need 1 or 2 LOUISVILLE GA's Call
FOR ALL NO ACTIVlllES. RESERVE US SPRINT /Network 2000 needs Inde­a trump lhe might rHOrt to being a NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. Todd x36n pendent Marketing Reps. Find out about 
tramp. RIDE NEEDED! To ROCHESTER, Buf­
61 B-<t71-5711. our remarkable Residual Income Oppor­
COMING SOON ... falo, Syracuse March 2, or to Pittsburgh
tunity! 234-5723 LOUISVILLE TICKETS THE CHARITY BALLI! 
HEY, who is Ag in the personals? Why March 2 or 3. Pay$$. Call Mary 284-5128 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­
not say HELLO today! or5117.
I have 5 GA's\ Call Steve at 2354.
291-7153. ST. JUDE: PRAY FOR US. 

,-~~ --~~~· ~----~-~-·----~-------~ 
-~---~­
Wednesday, February 22, 1989
The Observer 

Indiana, Dallas make trade 
Williams goes to Mavs for Schrempf, 2nd-round choice 
The Observer I E.G. Bailey 
The Observer I AP Photo 

Herb Williams (with the ball) was traded to the Dallas Mavericks for Detlef Schrempf and a second-round draft pick yesterday. Williams is averaging 12 points and eight rebounds a game. 
Associated Press 
DALLAS--The Dallas Mavericks, still waiting for Adrian Dantley to end his hol­dout, traded forward Detlef Schremp£ and a second-round draft pick to the Indiana Pacers on Tuesday for forward Herb Williams. 
The Mavs own Indiana's first-round draft choice in 1990 if it's a lottery pick. If not, Dal­las will get the 1991 choice. In­diana's second-round pick from Dallas comes in the year the Mavs get a first-round se­lection. 
"Schremp£ has worked hard for us these past four years and we believe he will fit into In­diana's running offense in a positive way," said Dallas' chief operating officer and gen­
4 eral manager Norm Sonju. "This trade should benefit both teams. I've always respected Williams as a shot blocker and as a force who can play power forward as well as center." The 31-year-old, 6-foot-11 Wil­liams, a first-round draft pick in 1981, was averaging 12 points and eight rebounds a game. 
Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh, and certainly the sportsmanship, camraderie,


Bengals 
continued from page 16 

and intense training of the Ben­four titles. "High" won't even gal Bouts, espoused by the leg­talk about the fighters in his endary "Nappy'' Napolitano, weight class, nor his opponent are the most important tonight -Mick "The Quag" "words" of the tradition-filled Meyer. fights. 
And Biolchini is just the op­Like any tournament, the posite. He'll talk... and fights in the Bengal Bouts only talk ... but, in his best Lou Holtz get better, as they move toward imitation, makes each fighter the finals, and tonight's semi­in the tournament sound like finals should provide great ac­Sugar Ray. tion. 
"Boom-Boom" Biolchini on "They will be the best semi­his opponent tonight, Tom "T" finals ever," said Notre Dame Stahl: "He's pretty darn good. boxing coach Sean McCor­I've sparred him before, he's a mack, obviously not following really good fighter." the modest pattern of two of his 
And on a wider scale, Biol­boxers. "Every Notre Dame chini is equally complimen­kid should come out to the tary. "Everybody in my weight semi--finals.'' class is really good. I've gotta fight until the end. I've got to Ending tonight's card will be be realistic." the first fight in the super-
Clubber Lang (remember heavyweight division, a prime Rocky III?) would grow his example of the exciting match­hair out if he heard such ups expected tonight. modest words. Former champion Dan 
But perhaps the two officers Quinn will do battle with Steve of the Notre Dame Boxing Club "Rowdy" Roddy for the right are more concerned with the to take on defending champion true spirit of Bengal Bout Brian "The Cannon" Shannon boxing, than with the prevail­in Friday's final. Quinn will un­ing mood in professional veil his trimmed physique and boxing today. attempt to use quickness and 
Besides, all proceeds from experience against the much 
this week-long event go to the bigger Roddy. 
victimized at 19:38 by Hoover's second goal of the game to go along with his five assists. He

Hockey 
continued from page 16 

was assisted on the goal byscoreboard. This time it took Clarke and Polillo, who wound only 24 seconds as Ron Hoover up with five points of his 'own. avoided a check at the N.D. It was WMU's sixth un­blue line and fired a shot past answered goal, and made the Madson unassisted. score 11-2. To say the Irish Then, at 4:02, Hoover skated were badly outplayed is an un­
over the Irish blue line and left derstatement. But, if nothinga nice drop pass for Polillo, who else, it justifies Schafer's deci­netted his second goal of the sion to tone down the schedule 
game to make it 8-2. for next year.
At 10:59, Polillo completed "To beat them, we had to his hat trick when he redirected play over our heads," Schafer a shot from the point by Chris said. "And they had to be off. Clarke into the net. Hoover also We were awful tonight. Theyassisted on the play. The are bigger, faster, stronger,Broncos' lOth goal mirrored and more clever." their second. Again, Hoover About Madson, Schafer said, won a draw to Madson's left, "It wasn't a sterling effort but getting it back to Ross. Ross it was his thirty-seventh game. 
scored, leading to Irish coach He can't be great every night. 
Ric Schafer's mercifully pul­Look at all the saves he made ling of Madson. this year. To me, that's in­He was replaced in the nets credible." Madson established by senior Mark O'Sullivan. He a school record for saves in a 
made two saves before being season with 1288. 
The 26-year-old Schremp£, a first round draft pick in 1985, was averaging nine points and four rebounds per game. 
"It's a positive thing for me. I'm going somewhere else and I hope I have a chance to play well," Schremp£ told ABC radio. "I'm a little surprised. But it's a business and I'll just have to make the best of it." 
It was the second trade in a week for both Dallas and In­diana. The Mavs traded for­ward Mark Aguirre to Detroit for Dantley last week. On Mon­day, the Pacers traded Wayman Tisdale to Sacramento for LaSalle 
Thompson  and  Randy  Wit­ 
tman.  
Despite  a  face-to-face  

meeting with owner Donald Carter in Washington, Dantley has missed two games at the cost of $30,487.80 salary. 
The Mavericks have given Dantley until Wednesday to report without suspension. 
Schremp£, who suffered a stress fracture above his left ankle in the Western Confer­_ence finals last year, was shoot­ing only 43 percent from the field. He was averaging 22 minutes per game. 
Williams, who averages 34 minutes per game, was shoot­ing 45 percent from the field and had 80 blocked shots. 
He was the eighth-best shot blocker in the NBA last year. Williams also had one game this year in which he grabbed 29 rebounds. 
"We hope this trade fills a need in the areas of defensive rebounding and shot blocking," said Rick Sun, vice president of basketball operations. "Herb's an experienced vet­eran who has proven that he's a good shooter in the low post. He boards consistently, partic­ularly on the defensive end and he can block shots." 
Dallas isn't expect rebound­ing ace Roy Tarpley, who is in a drug rehabilitation center in California, to return this year. 
"In light of the tenuous sit­uation regarding Tarpley, the addition of a legitimate, bonafide power forward is ex­tremely reassuring to all of us," Sonju said. 
to the ring tonight (54 in total), far too many to mention indi­vidually, but each has sacrificed, sweated, and per­severed to reach the semi­finals. 
And even if they won't say it, they're all out to do some butt­kickin'. 
The Stepan Center is sure to rock. 

Other fights of special note on tonight's card involve re­turning champions looking to extend Bengal Bouts winning streaks. 
Vance "Pretty Boy" Be­cklund will battle John "Babyface" Flickinger in a Light Heavyweight "battle of the mafia nicknames." 
Defending champion Chris 
1 
"Boom Boom" Balint will square off against Patrick "Four Alarm" Fay in the "Pyromaniac's Delight Fight." 
Another pre-tourney favor­ite, Mike "Candyman" Canavan will fight Robert "Cracker" Graham in a lightweight junk-food battle. 
Many other fighters will take 

The Notre Dame 59th annual Bengal Bouts enters llvan previews the action starting on page 16. Into Its semi-final round on Wednesday. Tim Sui-
D~======================================~D 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
Applications are currently being accepted for the following position: 
Controller 

•Acquire 
an understanding of the internal control of an overall accounting system. 

• 
Gain practical hands-on accounting experience. 

• 
Be directly responsible for the financial operations; including purchasing, payroll, receivables, and payables of a small business. 

• 
Gain knowledge of state, local, and federal taxes 

• 
Must be a junior accounting major. 


Call Chris Donnelly at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position. 



=Ihe=Obset:Yer-___
= 

D~====================================~D 

Wednesday, February 22, 1989 
The Observer page 11 
Women's tennis faces Illinois State at home 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team resumes action today at 3:30 p.m. when they face Illinois State at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish are 0-2 in dual meets this season, but they were very impressive in their last outing, the Eck Doubles Classic (Feb 3-5). At that tourn­ament, the Irish won the num­ber one doubles flight and took second place in the third and fourth spots. 
Coach Michele Gelfman hopes that the winning will con­tinue today as Notre Dame begins a long stretch of matches after a 2 l!2-week break. 
"The attitude of the team is good right now,'' Gelfman said. "Our young players are realiz­ing how much their matches count. When they win, it's for each other instead of for them­selves. That is really unusual on a tennis team." 
Although the Irish have never played the Redbirds before, Gelfman knows her squad will have to be ready. 
"I know they are not as good 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
. I ... I\. .
•·f·. '~I ,, )-I 
I -. \· ·I~/· i·~, ~d"_.-'
...-~ · .··· 
~ -"-~ . ~ / I " ' • \.: "\o..... "~' " ·> 
.....,~~~ . ..,_--~-~~ 
OOfl fOIIYE DltiJJUI,otflniK Wmt Al'f'OMf WHO DOl\ 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant News Editors News Copy Editors 
A one-page personal statement is due to Matt Gallagher by 5p.m., Fri., Feb 24. Any questions, contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957 


HAPPY 21st ! ! ! Brain Boree 
ATTENTION FOREiGN 
GRADUATE STUDENTS 
PART-TIME CONSULTANTS FOR INTERNATIONAL FIRMS 
Large Multinational client companies currently seek qualified individuals with foreign language fluency and area expertise for competitive consulting opportunities in selected European, Asian, African, and Latin 
American Markets. Foreign students in advanced degree programs welcomed. Experience in scientific, economic, and 
international relations fields a definite plus. 
Part-time assignments available during school year including opportunities for J-1 and F -1 Visa students. Salaries based upon 
qualifications. All positions are fee paid, no cost to applications. For prompt consideration, please send a resume or letter describing your qualifications with day/evening telephone 
numbers to: Swenson, Crawford & Paine Attn: Chris Olson Executive Search Division 
P.O. Box A-3629 Chicago, IL 60690 No Phone Calls Please. All replies strictly confidential. 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
Lewis Hall's aggressive trap­ping defense helped it earn a 36-31 victory over Pasquerilla East Monday nightto advance in the winner's bracket of the Women's Interhall basketball playoffs. Breen-Phillips contin­ued its winning ways as well with a 46-22 romp over Badin. 
The Lewis victory was far from easy. Although the Chick­ens led 9-8 after the first quar­ter, P.E. used an aggressive man-to-man defense to forge a halftime tie. 
The score remained close in the second half. A full court zone press helped Lewis es­tablish a tenuous three point lead late in the fourth quarter, but a Colleen O'Connor layup with 1:40 left to play tied the game at 30 for P.E. 
Sue Lippa, whose scrappy in­side play and soft touch from the foul line were a big plus for Lewis, then hit a field goal to give Lewis a lead it would never relinquish at 32-30. 
A steal by point guard Ellen 'Mouch with 40 seconds left and some clutch free throw shoot­ing sealed the victory. Mouch finished with nine points for the Chickens, while center Molly Mahoney led P.E. with eight points despite some second half foul trouble. 
Lewis Coaches Tom Zidar and Mark Laboe said that in such a close game, their play in her position. She will be followed by Katie Clark, Kristy Doran, Kim Pacella, Tyler Musleh and Cathy Bradshaw. Natalie Illig will enter the line­up to play doubles. 
"Natalie has really been our team's leader this year," Gelfman said. "The younger players on our team are really impressionable and Natalie has taken on the responsibility of being there for them. She's had a lot of problems with in­juries this year, yet she's al­ways at practice and ready to help." 
as they used to be," Gelfman commented, "but we can never underestimate our opponents.'' 

Michele Gettman 
The team's long lay-off usually would have left them rusty and unprepared. Instead it was a blessing in disguise, as the Irish spent the time recovering from illness and in­jury. 
"We've regained our strength," explained Gelfman. "At one point last week, I had only four girls here for prac­tice. We go from now straight through until May so we needed the rest." 
Notre Dame will be without No.1 seed CeCe Cahill. Instead freshman Tracy Barton will 

Women's IH moves to finals 
Lewis, Breen-Phillips overcome opponents to advance ·­
players "showed a lot of poise, and we're happy about that. We played P.E. earlier in the season, and we think that helped us tonight." 
Zidar and Laboe also were very impressed with possible future opponent Breen­Phillips. They noted that, "B.P. is big, strong, and very aggressive on the boards. We will have real difficulty match­ing up with them if we meet them later in the tournament." 
Indeed, the Blitz appear to be the dominant team in the tourn­ament. If they can continue to play like they did in their 46-22 victory over Badin Monday night, B.P. will be tough to beat. 
On defense, B.P. freshman guards Colleen Burke and Kate McKenna forced passes out wide on the wings and prevented Badin from getting easy shots from the perimeter. The B .P. blitzkrieg continued on offense as freshman center Lora Mangan led the way with 13 points. Juniors Cynthia Guckien and Vicki Buth added 12 and 9 points respectively for 
B.P. Kristin Miller scored 11 points and Babs Broemmel chipped in 6 for Badin. 
Mangan said that her team's recent success doesn't put any extra pressure on the Blitz. "Defensively we feel that as long as we are aggressive, we can continue to be successful. Everybody on this team has a 
terrific attitude." 
Coach Jeff Heilert agreed. "The Interhall Playoffs are something new to the freshmen on the team, so I don't know that they feel any pressure. Our one point overtime loss to P.W. in the last game of the regular season was a good experience for us. It showed us that we will have to continue to work hard to have a chance in this tourn­ament.'' 
SPRING BREAK 'B 

LAST CHANCE! 
L'VE GOT TO 
CALL TODAYl 

, , L ])ON/ h!ANr ~ '' .I,Zll1 TV 8£ 5TfKK IN 
• ;~-; NOT~f.. JJA.ME/ 
SOUTH PAORE ISLAND troms14g· STEAMBOAT ,,.,.s213' DAYTONA BEACH troms11s· MUSTANG ISLAND troms136. HILTON HEAD ISLAND troms10T DON'T WAIT 'TIL II'S TOO LATE! 
CALL TOLL FREE TODAY 

1-800-321-5911 

Mom and Dad and the 6 other mini -Flecks 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 

YOUR FIRST STEP TOWARD SUCCESS IS THE ONE YOU COULD TAKE THIS SUMMER. 
Army ROTC Camp Challenge. It's exciting anditmaybeyourlastopportunitytograd­uate with an Army Officer's commission. 


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
Interested? Call Major Warrick 
239-6264 







Apple says~ "YES" to Spr·ng 

Purchase a Qualifying Apple System by March 31st and receive a rebate of up to 50°/o off the suggested retail price on peripherals... 
Qualifying System  Purchased Peripheral?  Maximum Rebate  
Macintosh SE . M:acmt9~hs~~t52u:.  .  ..  .:  yes · ·S~~r  :  .:.  .  $150 or 50%** sm><Jrso~m~  . >  
Macintosh SE 2/40 :Jia<litQ.iil'.J.:t~::··: · · : :  :  ·  yes&es.  ·  :=  • • .  .  $250 or 50%** $ano ar sol~.i .·.  <  
Macintosh II HD 40* ::,:::·~t1¢.1Uiiu·.:illl=t:  =  ::: :  : :  yes :::::::··::yes  ·::=:.=:  .  ::.:::.::=:·:  ,,  $800 or 50%** :$600ot5ol~~:.  
·  Macintosh Ilx* Nlli18Sli:lx·=~~:ao.~  ::.·  =r : ::: =m::  ·:  .. y~s yes  ·  :=  ::  =====  $500 or 50%** $$oont~Q~~~:·  .,  
* Must be purchased with monitor and video card  **Whichever is less  

Qualifying Peripherals
Apple Image Writer Printers AppleShare File Server Apple LaserWriters Apple Scanner Apple External Disk Drives and Backup Systems 2MB Memory Expansion Kit Apple Modems 4MB Memory Expansion Kit 
Office of University Computing Notre Dame Computer Store Computer I Math Building • Room 25 8:00AM-5:00PM • 239-7477 
Please Note: 1/2 Off Rebate available on Individual or Departmental purchases 

----~~--~-----------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, February 22, 1989 
The Observer 

Indiana too much for Irish 
Upset-minded Irish can't keep 'dragon-slaying' ways 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team, coming off two of its biggest wins of the year, could not continue its dragon-slayer role against Indiana Univer­sity. Yesterday at the Eck Pavilion, the 8-4 Irish, playing its fourth match in five days, fell short to the Hoosiers, 5-4. 
"They are a good team and are in great shape," said Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss. "If there is justice, Indiana will be in the Top 15 in the next na­tional poll. There are no ex­cuses but there were definitely some sore legs out there in the beginning." 
Looking for its fourth upset of the season, the Irish dropped four matches in the singles competition for the second straight match. Against North Carolina on Sunday, the Irish were 4-2 after the singles but regrouped to stun the Tar Heels, 5-4. However, this time, Notre Dame could not over­come the top 20-bound Hoosiers. 
Already this season, IU has knocked off three Top 20 teams­-No. 14 Clemson, No. 10 Cal Berkeley and No. 15 Arkansas. Fifth-year Indiana head coach Ken Hydinger believed his team was not at its best yet nonetheless was glad about his team's tenth win of the season. 
"We worked hard and played in control," said Hydinger. "Notre Dame has definitelyimproved but we did what we were capable of doing." 
In order to win the Irish would have had to sweep the doubles contest-s. The No.1 and No. 2 duos came up on the win­ning end of their matches but the normally dependable No.3 duo of Ryan Wenger and Dave Reiter bowed in three sets, 3-6, 6-2, 6-2 to the Hoosiers' No.3 team of Charles Wright and David Russell. 
Irish skipper Bayliss summed up the situation of this up and down match. 
"In the third set, the No. 3 match slipped away," said Bayliss. "We lost control but give them (IU) credit for com­ing back well." 
In the other doubles matches, the No. 1 tandemn-Dave DiLucia and Mike Wallace snared a three set win. The freshman and junior combina­tion downed its foes 6-3, 4-6, 7-6 (13-11). In this contest, the No. 1 team held off ten match points while capitalizing on their third match point. 
Brian Kalbas and Walter Ool­hare, the No. 2 team, captured a two set victory, 6-2, 6-4. 

In singles play, No. 1 Dave DiLucia and No.3 Walter Dol­hare earned the two Irish vic­tories. DiLucia extended his winning streak to eight matches with a straight-set vic­tory over 59th ranked Gunmar Salumas, 6-2, 7-6 (7-4). 
No. 3 Walter Dolhare over­whelmed Chris Gambino in two sets, 6-2, 6-4. The 6-2 junior posted his second straight win. 
"That win was a big one for him," said Bayliss of Dolhare's second consecutive win. "He is on a roll. Walter showed pa­tience and did a great job of approaching the net." 
Senior captain Brian Kalbas does not believe the loss will have any ill effects on the team. 
"I though we could have played better," said Notre Dame's No.2 player. "We had o~r chances to win but I think today was a case of being too tired." 
Mizzou undergoing weird season 
Tonight is the Opening Night of the Musical ~~ [t¥i](Q)[Nl Best Wishes to Jeff McGarrity, Rob Meffe, and the entire cast and crew "Break a lea" Rosemarie, Bill, PatricK & Colleen  

WEDNESDAY OF THE 7" Turkey, Pepperoni Cosmo, Mateo, or Meatball Sub Onion Rings or mozzarella sticks large drink $4.99 FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB  

Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, MO--The 1988­89 basketball season had the prospects of being the best of Norm Stewart's 22 at Missouri. 
There would be his 500th vic­tory, a real chance at a seventh Big Eight title and even his first Final Four berth with a team loaded with veterans. 
Instead, it's been a profes­sional rollercoaster and a per­sonal disaster. 
With three weeks remaining in the regular season, Stewart is in a Columbia hospital having undergone surgery for bleeding ulcers, cancer of the colon and a diseased gall blad­der. 
His wife, the Missouri homecoming queen when Stewart was the star of the bas­ketball and baseball teams there, has had two major operations in the past months. 
And his program is under suspicion of having broken NCAA rules, a major event at the only school in the history of the Big Eight never to have been placed on probation. 
Even in a season when Stewart's behavior occasion­ally seemed erratic, no one around him seems to have de­tected specific signs he was having trouble with his health. 
"Coach Stewart is the type of guy who keeps things inside," said Rich Daly, who will coach the Tigers until Stewart returns, if he does this season. "His family is very closeknit and I admire him for that. He doesn't want them in the press." 
The spotlight was all Stewart's as 'the season started. 
The only starter not return­ing was Derrick Chievous, the school's all-time leading scorer but the kind of player whose cavalier attitude made his loss likely to be addition by subtrac­tion. 
Everyone else was back from last season's 19-11 team that finished fourth in the Big Eight,· which supplied half the field for the Final Four. Add in talented freshman Anthony Peeler and prospects looked extremely bright. 
The 54-year-old Stewart's tenure with the Tigers is im­pressive. 
There have been 26 coaches at the seven other conference schools in his years at Mis­
You've lived the National Championship ... Now Get the Video 

relive the excitement of the '88 Championship Season with the official Athletic Department Highlight Video Cassette­
" They Wanted to Win " 
*action from all 12 victories 
*interviews with Lou and the boys 
*narrated by Harry Kalas 
all for $29.95 make the memories last a l(fetime 
*to order call 283-7356 or send check or money order to Athletic Marketing Office JoyceACC Notre Dame, IN 46556 please specify Beta or VHS 
souri, the third longest stint at one Big Eight school behind only Phog Allen at Kansas and Hank Iba at Oklahoma State. When the season began, the other seven head coaches in the conference had a combined 24 years of service. 
Stewart got his 500th victory and his 403rd at Missouri with a semfinal victory over North Carolina in the Big Apple NIT in the third game of the season. 
That made him just the 24th Division I coach to reach the 500-victory plateau but Stewart's name certainly can't be considered a household name in a sport where coaches are the only constant. 

Dayton 
continued from page 16 
Steve Pittman broke a 26-26 tie 
with 4:28 on the clock to give 
the Flyers a lead that would 
hold until halftime. 
Notre Dame came out in the 
second half with renewed vigor 
and put the clamps on Grevey, 
who had scored 15 first-half 
points including three three­
pointers. 
Within the first three minutes 
of the second half the Irish 
grabbed the lead at 38-37 and 
never looked back. 
After resurrecting its outside 
game, Notre Dame slowly 
gained ground on a steadily­
tiring Flyer squad. With better 
shot selection and numerous 
second-shot opportunities, the 
Irish quieted the Flyer faithful. 
Rapid-fire substitutions kept 
the Irish fresh and the Flyers 
on their heels, and an impres­
sive second-half performance 
from junior Joe Fredrick, who 
finished with 20 points on the 
evening slammed the door on 
any hopes of a Dayton com­eback. 
"With Ellis out, we knew some guys would have to step in there and get the job done," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "People like Paddock and Tower did and that gave J a mere Jackson and Joe Fredrick time to get into the groove the second half." 
"Our running game, transi­tion game and offensive and de­fensive rebounds were all fac­tors but better shot selection 
APWORKS 

during the second half won the 
.___________________..::;;;::;::;::!J game for us." 
page 14 


Fencers take part in Junior Olympics 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
While the Notre Dame fen­cing teams were inactive this past weekend, a small contin­gency of fencers traveled to Colorado Springs for this year's Junior Olympics. 
Six members of the men's teams and four from the wo­men's competed in the annual event aimed at selecting can­didates to represent the United States at the upcoming Junior World Olympics, to be held this year in Athens, Greece. 
Freshman Rachel Haugh (Portland, OR.) garnered a spot on the U.S. team by win­ning the gold medal in the wo­men's epee competition. Her sister, Kelly Haugh, placed ninth while Tara Kelly finished seventh. Freshman Mary Westrick also competed in the epee division. 
The best showing for the men this weekend came from fresh­man Ed Baguer. In a rematch of last year's New Jersey State high school sabre champion­ship, Baguer was edged out by James Talioferro, a freshman currently at Holy Cross junior college. Talioferro secured a spot on this year's U.S. team while Baguer's silver medal finish earned him a place as an alternate. 
In addition, sabremen Henry Chou and Chris Baguer finished 13th and 14th, respec­tively. 
In the men's foil competition, sophomore Phil Leary placed 
13th overall while freshmen teammates Ed Lefevre and MikeTriskotookthe38thand 
40th spots. 


Irish head fencing coach Mi­chael A. DeCicco was pre­sented with the 1988 Jack Kelly Fair Play Award this weekend. 
The award, established in 1985 in honor of the former USOC President, is presented annually to an athlete, coach or official for an outstanding act of fair play and sportsman­ship displayed during the past year. 
At the 1988 Junior World Championships for fencing, hosted by Notre Dame, a poten­tially serious incident of inter­national proportions involving the Cuban team was averted through the actions and quick thinking of DeCicco. 
During the opening ceremonies, the Cuban team was not properly recognized with its national anthem upon marching onstage, due to a technical error. 
In response to this perceived insult, Cuban delegation leader Rafaela Gonzalez and her fen­cers decided to leave the stadium and to withdraw from the competition. 
DeCicco explained the prob­lem to Gonzalez and convinced her to reconsider. Then, in a gesture of supreme goodwill, he personally escorted the Cuban team into the stadium, himself carrying the team ban­ner. 
Solv~ this mystery-·-Here's a cue, 
A child was born on 2-22. 
At the age of 18 went off to school, 
Slept in the basement, but that was "cool". 
, By the age of 20, things were nifty, A climb up the stairs to reside in 250. 
21 was celebrated in a style so fine, The parties were "happenirg" in 309. 
To solve this riddle, stand by a tree, 
Look straight up at the window of 323. 

The Observer I E.G. Bailey 

In Notre Dame fencing action, several atheletes 1988 Jack Kelly Fair Play Award. Chris Filllo has participated In the Junior Olympics. Fencing co­details at left. ach Mike DeCicco was also the recipient of the 
South Carolina names new coach 
While he wants to have fun, Woods conceded to some jitters about his new job --and a 1989 schedule that includes Clem­son, Georgia, Florida State and North Carolina State. 
"I'm nervous about them all. Right now, Duke makes me nervous and that's the first ball game.... I'm nervous but I'm not intimidated at all," Woods said. 
Woods said he felt a bit over­whelmed at the jump to a major Division I football pro­gram but had no qualms about accepting the offer. 

Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C.--South Carolina reached into Division 1-AA and named Appalachian State's Sparky Woods its foot­ball coach Tuesday, ending a searchthatbeganjustovertwo weeks ago following the sudden death of Joe Morrison. 
"This is a job where I don't think you ever need another job in this business," Woods said. "If your goal is to be the very best and reach the very top, then I feel like we're here. All we've got to do is succeed at it." 
Woods said he would meet soon with the Gamecock players and the assistant coaches still on the staff. He hoped to have a complete staff 
-----------------------..
FREE DELIVERY SUPER PEPPERONI ~5 PIZZAV'" 2 FOR $9.99 
Two large pepperoni pizzas with 40 slices of pepperoni. 
Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Not valid with any other coupon or offer. 
Expires 51.31-39 
by the time spring practice begins March 13. 
"I think he's got a fire in his stomach. He's got a lot of en­thusiasm," President James B. holderman said. 
Athletic Director King Dixon said the 35-year-old coach "has the characteristics we were looking for --unquestioned in­tegrity, strong character, student-athlete oriented, and a genuine feeling and concern for young people." 
Wood said he had three goals: "graduation, win foot­ball games . . . and have fun while we're doing it." 
i 
"This unique aerial photograph captures all the 
excitement of our national championship game. 
Relive the glory of this Fiesta Bowl Classic with 
a full-color, 20" x 30" commemorative poster­
as sanctioned by the Fiesta Bowl:' 
Bruce Skinner, Executive Director, Fiesta Bowl 
Yes, send me (no.) commemorative poster(s) at $15 each, plus $1 postage and handling. (Arizona residents add 6.7% sales tax). Please print. 
Name _________________________________ 
Address------"-------------------------­
City ____________ State _____ Zip ______ 
Send check or money order to: 1989 Sun kist Fiesta Bowl Commemorative Poster, 4500 North 32nd St., Suite 100, 
Phoenix, AZ

22 "OTTER" be the best birthday ever. 
h.-~-----~-m.J.®~~R~~~·~!M·iD·a,.-----~~R.®JMil.ati~ 



-~-------------~--­

Wednesday, February 22, 1989 
CAMPUS , 
12:10.1:00 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
3:30 p.m. NDW Tennis vs. lllinois State, Eck Pavilion. 
8:00 p.m. Pax Christi Meeting, C.S.C. Chapel. 8:00p.m. "Simon," Washington Hall. 
8:10 p.m. "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie," O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

LECTURE CIRCUIT 
12:15 p.m. "Teaching in a Foreign Land," by Isis Quinteros, Department of Modern Languages, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. 
12:30 p.m. "U.S. Welfare Policy," David Ellwood, Professor, Harvard University, Room 131 Decio. 
4:20 p.m. Department of Physics Colloquium, Dr. Glenn Young, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Room 118 Nieuwland Hall. 
4:30 p.m. "Metal Alkoxides -Models for Metal Oxides, Part 
II. Templates for Organometallic Chemistry," Malcolm H. Chisholm, Professor of Chemistry, Indiana University, Room 123 Nieuwland Hall. 
DINNER MENUS  
Notre Dame Stuffed Sole  Saint Mary's Tarragon Chicken  
Pasta Bar  Baked Cod  
Veg.IR.ice Csrle  Seafood-Shells  
Potato Boulangere  Deli Bar  


COMICS 
Bloom County 
The Observer page 15 


NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

lllior::+.::-t-::+:-1 1 o Ca IIa liI ies, e.g ~ 
11 Entrances 

12 Harold of the 
comics 13 River in Ariz. 18 Black, to Brigitte 
Berke Breathed 

53 indolent 57 Air: Comb~ form 58 Be left with the 
entire blame 60 Charge per unit 61 Baffle 62 Berlin creation 63 Old English 
letters 64 Carried on 65 Koppel and 
Husing 

DOWN 

1 Young lady 2 Ostentatious. in away 3 Madam, in Dog patch 4 Things to be 
solved 5 Sow's baby 6 Tough timber 
tree 7 Dove sounds 8 Burstyn of the 
screen 9 Bigoted hicks 
22 Assam and 38 Ala~-born actress 48 Garb for keemun Louise-Caesar's wife 24 Reliable 50 Cutoff
39 Most pallid 26 Madison Ave. 51 What to do
41 Surname of 

figures between the 
three baseball 
lines27 Threefold brothers 52 Hit hard 28 Speaks in public 

42 Wharf space for 
54 Hautboy29 Puts thumbs a liner 55 Kind of dollar ordown 44 Small storm 
31 Story, in St.-L6 flycatchers 56 --and-bacon 
32 Eye ailments 

46 Firmly (toadflax) 35 Pennies established 59 A.E.S. opponent 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
Mike Muldoon 

J.l£ .5£u 1r t>rr 1117JI£ /)~/11/:'JN'~ ~ 
MP 1£ PO NoT" INPIJL~£ 

!Wo /JlJY Cl/'!lfA~/ aNF'!5U4n::P 8.££1<.1 
I 

SAT: WINTERFEST ICE SKATING,
est 

10:30-12pm FREE SKATES & ADMISSION W/STUDENT ID




Winter fun 
FREE COOKIES & COCOA 
SAT: ALL NIGHT MOVIES -12:30am for S1:00 
.ACROSS 
1 Gooseneck 5 Standardbred at 
Yonkers 10 A.B.A. members 14 Sandarac tree 15 Capri and 
Ischia: it. 16 Mother of Hera 17 Fortress 19 Pitcher 
Hershiser 20 Representation 21 Having feelings 23 Deceives 25 Requires 26 Author of "Black 
Oxen" 30 -~-in (collects) 33 Airport. for short 34 Thwacks 36 Baseball's Mel 37 Measures for 

wire 38 Sets right 39 Pinter creation 40 Close 41 Friend of 
Standish 42 Earp's star 43 Snuggle up 45 Puts emphasis 
on 47 Pays, as a bill 49 Grade so Manufacturers' 
output 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Buzz McFiattop 
3otml 8/ft!J fbL!~£ /}0 No-r 6£r CJ/fAP 1/I?'LLS 
P",('~ J.JAM15;1{~ 
[ N-P. 57iJ{JP.l!J. 

SATURDAY: 12:30am ATIACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT 2:05am ANIMAL HOUSE 
12-4pm, SOUTH QUAD, 4:00am LIFE OF BRIAN SIGN UPS IN LaFORTUNE INFO. DESK AT CUSHING SIGN UP INDIVIDUALLY OR IN TEAMS 


~-­








Sports 
Wednesday, February 22, 1989
page 16 

Oklahoma controversy takes toll on children 
ND beats Dayton in 2nd-half surge 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
DAYTON, Ohio--The Notre Dame men's basketball team rebounded from a lackadaisi­cal first half to roll over a hungry Dayton squad 83-66 Tuesday night and improve its record to 17-5. 
Notre Dame was without freshman LaPhonso Ellis, who sat out the game after taking an elbow to the eye during the Feb. 19 Houston game, but the Irish still owned the boards the entire game. 
The Irish finished with a 41-23 rebound advantage and used a powerful inside game to beat the 11-13 Flyers for the second time this season. 
The Irish controlled the opening tipoff, but little else in the first half as the Flyers worked a home crowd of 12,581 into a frenzy en route to taking a 35-32 lead into the locker room at halftime. 
Freshman Keith Tower drew first blood for the Irish with a power layup but it was the Flyers, led by an unlikely hero, 

Irish hockey ends long season 
By BRIAN MCMAHON Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team concluded its season with an 11-2 drubbing at the hands of the Western Michigan Broncos. The Broncos dominated every aspect of the game in ensuring themselves plenty of highlight film ma­terial in what for them has been a disappointing season. 
The Irish struggled in their own end early yet managed to jump to an early lead when freshman defenseman Kevin Patrick sent classmate Lou Zadra in alone at 3:23 of the first period. Zadra netted his fourth goal of the year with a low wrist shot from 15 feet. 
The Broncos tied the score 32 
seconds later when Paul Polillo 
beat Lance Madson with a 
wrist shot from the left wing. 
Polillo, last year's CCHA who took advantage of the home court hysteria. 

Dayton's Norm Grevey drew an unexpected start over guard Ray Springer and tallied seven points to help Dayton grab an early 11-4 lead and keep Notre Dame from getting on track. 
With a virtually nonexistent perimeter game, the Irish used their speed and size to do what it does best--run and rebound-­and prevented Dayton from running away with game in the first half. 
The tandem of Tower and 6-9, 225-pound junior Keith Robin­son, who finished the night with a game-high 25 points and 16 rebounds, kept the game tight, as the two combined for 16 of team's first half points. 
It was their presence on the front line that helped the Irish creep back from a seven point deficit and grab a 21-20 lead on a short jumper by junior Joe Fredrick with 7:01 left in the first half. 
The Irish advantage was short-lived though, as Dayton's 
SE!e DAYTON, page 13 


Bengals enter into semifinals 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Marvelous Marvin would be 
bragging. Muhammad Ali's rhymes 
would be flowing. 
But over in the Joyce ACC boxing gym, as 55 fighters prepare for tonight's semi­finals of the 59th annual Bengal Bouts, (7:30, Stepan Center) modesty prevails. 
Take, for example, two of the pre-tourney favorites, return­ing champions Mike Noone and Doug Biolchini. Noone won a unanimous decision over James Dailey during Sunday's quarter-finals, while Biolchini stopped Hal Schmitt in the second round of their fight. 
Neither fighter can be ac­cused of intimidating the com­petition with psyche talk. 
First, Noone is vying to be­come just the fifth fighter in the history of the bouts to win 
see BENGALS, page 10 

with big loss to Broncos 
The men's hockey team suffered a disappointing season-ending home game was a lopsided affair, loss to Western Michigan on Tuesday. The 11-2. 
scoring champion, waited for answered goals to go ahead for threw a soft, high shot into the Madson to open up and shot be­good. Bronco center Bill net that Madson was screened tween the goalies' legs. Hoover won a faceoff to Mad­on and did not appear to see. 
At 5:53, Western Michigan son's right, sending it back to Then, at 19:41, junior Rich scored its second of five un-defenseman Mike Ross. Ross Whitten intercepted a poor 
~ 
,...... 
The Observer I Scon McCann 
Irish clearing attempt and slapped the puck between Mad­son's legs from the left wingboards. 
The Broncos wasted little time once the second period was underway. At 1:25, Mike Ross skated in from the point and fed an uncovered Shane Redshaw to the left of Madson. Redshaw waited and waited until he beat a helpless Madson with a wrist shot off the post on the short side. 
A determined effort by Kuehl lead to Zadra's second goal of the game for the Irish. The junior winger's first shot hit the post. Following up on the play, his second shot was saved by Laurie only to have Zadra poke in the rebound. 
In the third period, likein the second period, WMU wasted little time getting on the 
see HOCKEY, page 10 

Somewhere in Oklahoma there is a nine-year old kid scratching his head. 
Before another slap in the face to the University of Oklahoma football team last week, this little tyke was happy existing in a world of Pee Wee's Playhouse and dodgeball. 
That changed with Charles Thompson last week. 
Thanks to the Sooners' quarterback, third­graders were being quoted across the nation, telling the adult world that kids didn't know who to trust anymore. 
This is the sad result of one man saying one thing­-to the most believing, trusting ears iln the world--and then doing the exact opposite. 
Thompson was telling children to say no to drugs. A wonderful message from someone who held a lot of clout with Oklahomans--a Sooner football player. Then he turned around and not only was found to use drugs but to sell them as well. 
This is not the first time that role models have let down their adoring fans. Ben Johnson did it in Seoul; so did super-goalies Jim Craig and Pelle Lindbergh when they got behind the! wheel of a car after drinking. 
I remember standing in line for 45 minutes to get Carl Yastrzemski's autograph at the impres­sionable age of 11. I stepped up to the table to the sight of a future Hall-of-Farner lighting up a ciga­rette. It was hard to take that my hero was not perfect. 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 

Charles Thompson is not perfect, and not even that famous. That doesn't really matter, though. 
What matters is that there was a person who was in position to be a positive influence on the minds of the future. Instead, he blew it. 
Sports play a major role in our society. Through the world of sports we can live out our competitive dreams--either as participants or fans. 
We tend to make heroes out of athletes. Twelve­year-old kids fight over who gets to be Magic Johnson in a pickup basketball game. Hundreds of Irish fans, young and old alike, wait up to an hour outside of Notre Dame's locker rooms to catch a glimpse or an autograph from Irish football and basketball players. And my grandmother, rest her soul, could name the Boston Red Sox starting lineup nearly to the day she died. 
In a world too often ravaged by violence, preju­dice, and poverty, finding heroes is a healthy way of keeping a positive perspective about our lives. 
Athletes are an obvious target of hero-worship and have been since the days of Babe Ruth and Knute Rockne. Given the right combination of tal­ent, luck and charm, athletes are in a prime position to feel the shining glory of the spotlight. 
That same spotlight can burn, though, as Charles Thompson learned last week. Unfortunately, he burned a lot of people with him--those who had been drawn close to him through his football deeds or otherwise. 
The warning to athletes as a result of last week's tragedy is out: You're on a pedestal, like it or not. You are being watched. So while you're up there, do whatever good you can. But don't mess up. There will always be a nine-year old kid ready to put his complete faith in your every word. 





