
--------------------------------~­
VOL. XXIII NO. 22 TUESDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush denounces chem. warfare in U.N. speech 
Associated Press  issues and agreements on other  weapons, which some experts  
matters -during talks last  consider as deadly as poison  
UNITED NATIONS, N.Y. - weekend between Secretary of  gas.  
Deelaring the world "has lived  State James Baker III and So­ One year ago, during the first  
too long in the shadow of  viet Foreign Minister Eduard  presidential candidates' debate,  
chemical warfare," President  Shevardnadze -as well as a  Bush had said, "I want to be  
Bush offered Monday to slash  decision to hold a summit  the one to banish chemical and  
U.S. stocks of such weapons  meeting with Soviet President  biological weapons from the  
more than 80 percent provided  Mikhail Gorbachev by early  face of the earth." The United  
the Soviet Union reduces to an  next summer.  States has in the past accused  
equal level.  "Let us act together -be­ the Soviets of developing bio­ 
Bush's proposal, in his first  ginning today -to rid the  logical weapons.  
speech to the U.N. General  earth of this scourge," Bush  Congress has passed legisla­ 
Assembly as president, was de­ said in his comments on chemi­ tion requiring the administra­ 
signed to spur a 40-nation con­ cal weapons. Shevardnadze  tion to destroy old chemical  
ference in Geneva to ban chemi­ said after the speech that the  weapons by 1997 as more ad­ 
cal weapons entirely within 10  Soviets had "a positive view" of  vanced weapons are stockpiled.  
years.  · the plan but that it and other  Asked about any connection  
lie also used his appearance  Bush proposals "will have to be  between Bush's proposal and  
to salute "freedom's march"  studied additionally."  the legal mandate to destroy a  
around the world -in Hun­ Brent Scowcroft, the presi­ large percentage of such  
gary, Poland. Latin America  dent's national security adviser,  weapons, the White House of­ 
and Africa -and to praise the  said the Soviets had been given  ficial said that whether or not  
Soviet Union for removing "a  an outline of the U.S. initiative  the new plan was "making a  
number of obstacles" in the  in advance and "they really  virtue of necessity it is certainly  
way of treaties to reduce long­ have not responded."  part of a major effort and a se­ 
range nuelear weapons, and  He also told reporters at a  rious effort now."  
troops and tanks in Europe.  briefing that Bush's proposal  Twice, as vice president, Bush  
Bush noted progress on those  did not include biological  blocked legislation to destroy  


The Observer/Steve Moskop 

Capsized 
Junior Navy Midshipman Kevin Mulhair practices capsizing and then recovering his sailboat on St. Joe's Lake Monday as part of his sailing qualifications. 
New fed. law releases jailed mom 
Associated Press 
Morgan, 41, went to jail vol­After a half-hour hearing, untarily in August 1987 for Superior Court Judge Geoffrey WASHINGTON-A District of contempt of court after refus­Alprin signed the order releas­Columbia judge on Monday re­ing to produce their daughter, ing Morgan as directed by the leased a physician jailed for Hilary, now 7, for court­D.C. Court of Appeals earlier in 
more than two years for refus­ordered visits with Hilary's fa­the day. ing to let her daughter visit the ther, Dr. Eric Foretich. girl's father, her former hus­Morgan has alleged that Elaine Mittleman, attorney band. Foretich sexually abused the for the father, asked the judge 
Dr. Elizabeth Morgan child; Foretich has consistently to impose conditions on Mor­emerged from jail in a car with denied those charges. gan's release, such as prevent­her lawyer, wearing a orange She evaded questions outside ing her from l<'aving the Dis­prison jumpsuit and carrying a the jail on whether she had had trict of Columbia and requiring dozen yellow roses. contact with her daughter dur­her to check in with court offi­
"I feel very happy and very ing her two years behind bars. cials regularly. grateful to everyone that has Asked whether she had heard Stephen Sachs, Morgan's at­helped me," she said. "I will from her daughter, Morgan re­torney, called the request probably cry when I say this, sponded, "Yes, but I won't tell "wholly inappropriate and im­but I want to thank God for ev­you how." When asked whether proper." ery angel on Earth." she plans to see Hilary, Morgan Alprin said he would like to 
Her release was the result of said, "If I were going to my impose conditions, but the ap­a law passed by Congress and daughter I would not tell you." peals court order did not give signed by President Bush last Morgan was asked what the him that leeway. week limiting civil contempt in future holds and replied, "I The appeals court left open the District of Columbia to 12 hope it doesn't hold jail." She the possibility of further con-months in jail. The law expires said she was going "wherever 
after 18 months. my fiance will take me." 

see MOM I page 4 
U.S. chemical weapons by William Higgins, who was breaking a tie vote. In those in­taken hostage on a U.N. mis­stances, the cutback would not sion in Lebanon in February have required Soviet reductions 1988 and subsequently slain. as well. He called Higgins "a man of 
To get down to the equal unquestioned bravery and stocks that Bush proposed, the unswerving dedication to the Soviets would have to make U.N. ideal" and called on the deeper cuts since they are General Assembly to condemn thought to have more chemical the murder. weapons on hand. Only the two Bush's chemical weapons superpowers acknowledge hav­proposal has three key ele­ing poison gas, but Bush said ments: more than 20 nations either • The United States was possess them or are capable of "ready to begin now" by elimi­producing them. nating more than 80 percent of 
Bush, who served as U.S. its stockpile while working on a permanent representative at treaty, provided the Soviets the United Nations in 1971 and also made their cuts. 1972, described his visit and • In the first eight years of a speech as a homecoming. The 40-nation treaty the United delegates interrupted him twice States would destroy nearly all with applause -when he pro­(98 percent) of its chemical posed the .chemical weapons weapons if the Soviet Union reductions and when he re­joined the ban. ported progress in U.S.-Soviet • All U.S. chemical weapons relations. -"100 percent, every one" ­
At one point, he also mourned would be destroyed within 10 the slaying of Marine Lt. Col. years. 
Sign points out ND campus from U.S. 33 
nial. "In recognition of the

BY ASHBY JORDAN 
sesquicentenial in three years,
News Staff 
the university thought it appro­
priate to recognize it in a for­
In recognition of Notre mal way," Woods said. Dame's upeoming sesquicente­According to Woods, the nial, and in an effort to make sign, made of black granite, the University more visible to will have gold lettering on both travelers, the University is in sides along with the seals of the the midst of constructing a 21-University and the Holy Cross foot granite sign on the north­community. Around it will be east corner of U.S. 33 and An­landscaping consisting of sev­gela Blvd. eral shrubs. At night it will be 
Col. David Woods, director automatically illuminated. of Support Services, said that the main purpose of the monu­Though the sign itself is up, ment is to honor the 147 year the seals have not yet been laid old relationship between the into the granite and the sur­University and the Congrega­rounding landscaping has not tion of the Holy Cross. The yet been completed, said sign will also distinctly mark Woods. Woods said that the the campus for travelers on work should be completed in a 
u.s. 33. few weeks. It will also recognize the Uni­
see SIGN I page 4 
versity's upcoming sesquicente­
~nate against ~cially 'offensive' remarks 
SY SANDRA WIEGAND complaint procedure. 
·. copy editor Officer reports at the Se­nate meeting included re~ minders <;f the Senior Class trip to the zoo on September 
30. the Junior Class formal on October 6, the Sopbomore Class memorial mass for .two students on 
1, and the ics m>Frt~shm:an·.·· Clas$ trip to the Dunes on October 1. The tnid~year graduates 
;'{;ji tl:iisve~~-Willnot have a>eer­but will have a mass, representative said, Lfi:am!es in procedure will im]f)leJmented at Student 
Tuesday, September 26, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Robert Howley has a fish story to tell from Concord, New llampshirn that even he didn't believe at first. Howley, 51, was reunited with his wallet last week after a four-year separation. It was found in 30 feet of water, 200 yards off the shore of Lake Winnepesaukee -right where he had dropped it in 1985 while trying to fix his boat's engine during a fishing outing. A scuba diver who was looking for a light that had fallen off an antique boat found the wallet. 
Fergie will visit Houston in November to celebrate the 400th anniversary of opera in Great Britain with the Houston Grand Opera. The Duchess of York, popularly known as Fergie, will arrive Nov. 3 for four days of appearances, including the Houston Grand Opera's British Opera Festival, as well as possible outings to a drug awareness program and a high school arts cen­ter. The duchess, who will be about live months pregnant at the time of the visit, will not be joined by her husband, Prince Andrew, or their daughter, Beatrice, organizers said. She plans to stay with socialite Lynn Wyatt. 
The last NASA launch of an unmanned rocket from this spaceport, where responsibility for sending payloads into orbit is being turned over to private industry after 400 liftoffs in 31 years. An Atlas-Centaur vaulted skyward at 4:56 a.m. with a $125 mil­lion communications satellite to link military commands with land, sea and air forces and for use by the president in times of crisis. For now on, when NASA needs an unmanned rocket, it will have to buy launch services from McDonnell Douglas, General Dy­namics and Martin Marietta. The space agency will continue to launch manned space shuttles from Cape Canaveral, where NASA got its start and where it has launched nearly all of its rockets. 
Well known for his hot-air balloons and extravagant. megabuck parties, magazine publisher Malcolm Forbes of Wash­ington, Pennslyvania can also be happy eating kielbasa and meat­balls after a ride with fellow motoh:yclists. Forbes, 70, riding a brown and red Harley-Davidson, joined about 1,000 motorcyclists Sunday for the 52-mile Fall Poker Hun through the countryside. Forbes rode with a 17-member entourage of employees and friends, nicknamed the Capitalist Tools, who flew to Pittsburgh aboard Forbes' private jet. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

The state Transportation Finance Authority decided Monday to sell $72 million worth of bonds to finance highway construction. Money raised from the bond sale will pay for a variety of highway projncts. Howevnr, thn list of projects hasn't ynt bnen madn final, said Dnpartment of Transportation Director Christinn Lntts. The bonds will probably be issued near the end of the currnnt liseal year, whieh ends next June 30, said state budget Director Frank Sullivan. When the bonds are sold, they will be backed by a portion of the state gasoline tax, Sullivan said. In 1988, thn Legislaturn approved a 1-cnnt-per-gallon inerease in that tax and dedieatnd the new revenue to to paying ofT highway bonds. 
Several Indiana colleges are reporting higher enroll­ments this fall, but the state Commission on Higher Education says there's still not enough Hoosiers going to school. At St. .Joseph's College the number of female students surpasses males for the first time since the Hensselaer school opened its doors to women in 1968. 
WEATHER 


Cooler 
Variabln cloudiness and much cooler today with highs from the middle to upper 50s. Mostly clear and very cool tonight with frost likely. Lows from the middle to upper 30s. Sunny and a little warmer tomorrow with highs from the lower to middle 60s. 

ALMANAC 
On September 26: e In 1789: Thomas Jefferson was appointed America's first Secretary of State and John Jay was named the first chief jus­tice of the United States. e In 1955: Following word that President Dwight Eisen­hower had suffered a heart at­
tack, the New York Stock Ex­change saw its worst price de­dine since 1929. e Ten years ago: President .Jimmy Carter sent a note to Sen. Edward Kennedy, his po­tential rival for the Democratic nomination, saying remarks he had made in New York a day earlier were not meant to be a referencn to Chappaquiddick. (Carter had said that as presi­dent, he had dealt with several crises, and "I don't think I pan­icked.") 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for Monday, Sept. 25, 1989 



0 ~~r~v~a~nes 2659.19 
down 22.42 
S&P 500 .Qr 2.65 to 348.95 
Currency exchange Mark {} 1.41 to 52.63 $/OM Yen {} 1.83 to 70.32 $/¥ Pound{} 4.30 to 161.45 $/£ 
Precious Metals Gold 0 $3.90 to $374.60 I oz. Silver .C. .50¢ to $5.375 I oz. 
Source. Prudential Bache Secunttes 
lnlormatton comptled lrom Observer wtres and Observer stall reports 

Notre Dame's alcohol policy must be consistent 
Inconsistency bothers me. 
In my three-plus years at Notre Dame, I have 
often run into policies I disagree with or do not 
like, but with which I am forced to live. Many 
come to mind: registering courses, parking and 
the alcohol policy are just a few. 
I can live with these seemingly random rules, 
however, as long as it is possible to understand 
and predict them. I know, for example, that I 
will get in trouble if I try to drive my car on 
campus without Security's permission. 
I understand and anticipate that seniors have priority over sophomores in uncheckmarked classes. Predictability is the idea behind codify­ing rules. As any government student can tell you, it is such predictability that lends legiti­macy to government. 
By this standard, Notre Dame is not a legiti­mate government to its 10,000 student-subjects. Anyone who visits Notre Dame on a football weekend can tell you the administration chooses to enforce or change its rules at a whim. 
First, one must look at the infamous alcohol policy. Five years ago, the implementation of an alcohol policy at Notre Dame made national news. 
None of the undergraduates today was here during the pre-alcohol policy days. We all have been living within the rules set down by the pol­icy since we set foot on campus. Indeed, the al­cohol policy is one of the University's fundamental rules, subject to strict enforcement by hall staffs and University officials. At least it is 360 days a year. 
The other five days, of course, are home foot­ball games. The University apparently feels that the alcohol abuse it was attempting to prevent by instituting an alcohol policy docs not occur on home football weekends. 
Anyone who walked around the parking areas last Saturday would, I believe, have to differ with Notre Dame officials on that matter. It is common to see people walking all over campus with open beers or drinks. The main parking areas (including our late-yet-still­beloved Green Field) are the sites of tailgaters, where one of the main activities seems to be drinking. 
University oflicials might argue that "It's only the alumni we let drink publicly" or "We can't prevent students from overeonsuming without also preventing visitors from drinking." 
The University, if it truly feels that consuming alcohol is bad for a person, should prevent visi­tors and alumni from drinking in public, just as it prevents students from doing the rest of the year, according to the policy. 
The alcohol policy ("duLac," pp. 26-31), in its most basic statement of the philosophy underly­ing it, claims that "it is the conviction of the University that drunkenness and public intoxi­cation arc unacceptable." Oh, really? It would be difficult to deduce this truism by observing our campus on a home football weekend. 
The alcohol policy states the basic rules which govern the consumption of alcohol on campus. 
OF INTEREST 
Spanish Mass: Campus Ministry will be holding the first Spanish Mass on Sunday October 1. If you'd like to help, please call Maria at 283-2823. Choir members, singers, musicians, readers and eucharistie ministers are needed. 
A London Program application meeting for all interested sophomores will be held at 6:30 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

'Notre Dame is not a legitimate government to its 10,000 subjects.' 
Matl Gallagher Executive News Editor 

Nowhere does the policy imply that visitors are 
excepted from this fundamental rule, nor that 
students arc exempt on certain weekends of the 
year. 
I do not want to be misunderstood, nor do I 
wish the University to change its policies on 
football weekends. Personally, I disagree with 
the alcohol policy. I enjoy tailgating as much as 
the next student. But there is something funda­
mentally flawed in the logic of the University's 
administrators in choosing to seleetively 
enforce the alcohol policy. 
Aside from the inconsistency of the enforee­ment of this policy, it is intrinsieally unfair to students who are prosecuted under these regu­lations. This is the most serious flaw of all. 
Why is it wrong for a particular student to overconsume alcohol or to consume it publidy in, say, March, while it is acceptable for his or her roommate, or an alumnus or a visitor, to do so on a weekend in September? 
It is impossible for a student eharged with a violation of the alcohol poliey to respeet that policy or those administering it when the poliey is selectively enforeed. 
Again, I must reiterate that I believe the poliey is fundamentally flawed. Instead of pnwenting alcohol abuse, I believe it worsens the two most serious problems related to aleohol abuse. 
First. the alcohol policy. eombined with tlw relatively isolated nature of tlw campus, en­courages drunk driving, by foreing students to drive to bars and ofT-campus parties to con­sume alcohol. 
Secondly. by forcing students to drink bl'hind dosed doors, the alcohol polky makes it more difficult to identify and att1~mpt to lwlp problem drinkers. I think such a policy is inappropriate for this campus environment; it causes mor1~ problems than it solves. 
But sinee Notre Dame has chosen to adopt this policy, it is contradictory for the University not to enforce this policy year-round. 
Unless Notre Damn is willing to buckle down and tell alumni, visitors and students that they must abide by the alcohol policy anytime and et•­ery lime they are on tl11~ campus (an unlikely event indeed), the University must admit it madP a mistake in the first plac1~ by instituting a pol­icy it refuses to enforce. 
Mall Gallagher is the executive news editor of The Obser11er and a senior governmenl/PPH ma­jor. 
Student Pugwash Notre Dame presents its first organizational meeting tonight at 7:00 p.m. in Galvin Auditorium. Student Pugwash examines how seienen and teehnology interaet with ethics and society in the hope of fostering the responsible usc of science. 
A CILA dinner discussion will be held tonight at 5:00 p.m. in the Faculty Boom of South Dining Hall. Prof. Peter Moody, Direetor of the Asian Studies Program will speak about the events and implications of the student protests in Beijing. All are wcleome to bring their dinner upstairs. 
Design Editor ............... Kathy Gliwa Design Assitant ......... Cheever Griffin Typesetter .. Bernard Brenninkmeyer ............................................ Gilbert Gomez News Editor.. ................ Christine Walsh News Copy Editor...........Sarah Voigt Sports Copy Editor .. Molly Mahoney, ......................................................Mary Garino Viewpoint Copy Editor Kevin Reisch Viewpoint Layout ...... Alison Cocks Accent Editor ........ Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor Stephanie Snyder Accent Designer ............... Sarah Fisko Photographer ........... Susy Hernandez NO Day Editor ...................Janet Herold Ads Designer ................ Meg Callahan. ............... Kathleen O'Connor. Val Poletto 
...Kristie Rolke. Laura Rossi 


----------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 26, 1989 The Observer 
page 3 


Space shuttle launch on schedule despite accident 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK (AP)-Presi­dent Bush on Monday de­clared a state of disaster in hurricane-ravaged North Carolina, making four hard­hit counties eligible for fed­eral assistance. 
The region blasted by Hurricane Hugo last week includes the counties of Gas­ton. Lincoln, Mecklenburg and Union. 
The disaster declaration, announced in a statement re­leased by the White House 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -A combination of mechanical and human error caused fire sprin­klers to splash space shuttle Columbia and damage the crart, the head of an investiga­tion team said Monday. 
Thomas Utsman said it was too early to assess the full damage from the accident Sun­day, but "I have not given up" on launching Columbia as scheduled on Dec. 18. 
staff with Bush in New York for a United Nations ap­pearance, said that further study may add more counties to the list. 
The action makes individ­uals and businesses in the affected region eligible for grants, low-cost loans, and other programs. Local gov­ernments also can receive federal help to repair public facilities. 
Meanwhile, banks re­opened, a trickle of mail was delivered and trash collec­tion resumed in the state 
Utsman, deputy director of the Kennedy Space Center, said the accident occurred after workers had done routine maintenance on the sprinkler system in the building where the shuttle was being readied. 
When the workers finished the job they tested the system by pressurizing it, but a valve they were certain was closed failed and water began flowing from sprinklers in one of six safety zones. 
"Two other workers who tried to help inadvertently 
Monday, but a cold down­pour hindered efforts to re­store power and worsened damage to roofless homes. 
Two inches of rain fell, and temperatures were in the 60s. An 80 percent chance of showers was forecast for Tuesday. 
"It's going to make it harder to accomplish any­thing, going to make every­thing a little more miser­able," said Kay Robinson, a meteorologist with the Na­tional Weather Service. 
turned on the other sprinklers" and water poured onto work platforms and splashed onto the shuttle, he said. 
''I'm chalking it up to a com­bination of equipment error and human error," he said. "The guys who did it were only trying to help.... Good inten­tions sometimes go wrong." 
Utsman said as many as 200 of the woven fiberglass heat protection units on the top of the shuttle might have to be re­placed. There are about 500 of 

Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Students! 
Explore the world of art campus and beyond 
Soviets to cut deficit 
Military spending to be reduced 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -The Soviet Union said Monday it will slash mili­tary spending by more than 8 percent and cut its huge deficit in half in a 1990 "crisis" bud­get made necessary by the na­tion's poor fiscal health. 
Finance Minister Valentin Pavlov used that wording as he unveiled the proposed budget on opening day of the Supreme Soviet legislature's fall session. 
The session's sweeping two­month agenda of about 80 bills includes proposals to radically alter some traditional ways of doing things in Soviet politics. 
Under dire need for more revenues and less expenses, the Kremlin plans to implement a progressive income tax for So­viets earning 700 rubles ($1,076) or more a month ­more than three times the aver­age wage -and float a $92 billion bond issue, the nation's first, to help finance new con­struction, Pavlov told lawmak­ers. 
President Mikhail Gorbachev presided over the 542-member Supreme Soviet, which recon­vened at a time of widespread turmoil and discontent caused by the often conflicting de­mands of the country's more than 100 ethnic groups and the state economy's failure to meet many basic needs. 
Many people were looking to the 4-month-old legislature for solutions. It was given ex­panded powers and a full-time political role by Gorbachev's drive for "democratization." The legislators met in a hall at 
the blankets on Columbia. 
While there appeared to be no damage to electrical systems, "we won't know for sure until we power up the vehicle," Utsman said. He said investiga­tors should know within a few days if the launch date will be affected. 
Utsman said when the com­plete sprinkler system is oper­ating, the total water flow is about 2,500 gallons a minute. He said the sprinklers were on for five to seven minutes, but 
HOW TO WATCH NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
GUEST SPEAKER: 

GEORGE KELLY 
PECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE ATHLETIC DIRECTOR FORMER DEFENSIVE COACH FOR THE IRISH 
the Kremlin and heard govern­ment officials give a bleak assessment of recent economic performance. 
Deputy Premier Lev Voronin told them, "The dynamism of the economy this year has been steadily falling in many major areas, social tension has in­creased and the national econ­omy has been losing its balance. 
''Against the background of these trends, deficits on the consumer market and in pro­duction have grown." 
Trying to parry shortages of goods ranging from tea and meat to salt and matches, the government plan for 1990 calls for a 20 percent increase in factory-made consumer goods, Voronin said, with the total produced by converted defense plants growing by almost 35 percent to $61 billion. 
According to Pavlov, the gov­ernment of Premier Nikolai Ryzhkov plans to raise $83 bil­lion in new revenues and trim expenditures by $10.3 billion to cut by half the 1989 govern­ment budget deficit of $192 bil­lion next year. 
The resulting budget, includ­ing $750 billion in expendi­tures, "is intended to overcome the crisis situation in finance," Pavlov said. 
The Soviets cannot expect any help from foreign trade, he added. Projected revenues in 1990 will decline by $3.9 billion from this year. If no increase occurs in the selling price of oil and gas, the Soviets' top ex­ports, all the revenue they gen­erate abroad will go to pay off existing foreign debt, he said. 
not all were flowing the full time. 
The two 60-foot-long cargo bay doors were closed at the time and the spaceship was not on electrical power. Otherwise, damage could have been exten­sive, Utsman said. 
He said only a small amount of water leaked into the cargo bay, no water entered the cabin, and there appeared to be no damage to the more than 20,000 thermal tiles that pro­tect the shuttle from the severe re-entry heat. 

Tuesday, September 26, 1989
page 4 The Observer 
E. Germany experiences 'people drain' in many jobs 
Associated Press 
BEHLIN -With thousands of East Germans going West in the past few months, those staying behind have found themselves without the serviees of some important people ­from the village baker, to the town plumber, to medical spe­cialists. 
There are visible signs of the "people drain" in East Berlin. 
An official sign on a shuttered bar called "Restoration 1900" says the establishment has re­ceived "permission to close" because the manager is ill. 
Local residents say that in truth, the manager fled to West Germany two months ago. 
"An operator of three other bars in this area also went West a while back. lie's since been replaced," said a middle­age East German walking past 


Race 
continued from page 1 
stead brief summaries will be turned in by each officer prior to the Monday evening meetings. Also, a variety of high-profile speakers will at­tend the Senate meetings. 
An update of the Student Sen-

Sign 
continued from page 1 
Commissioned and paid for by the University, the sign was designed by Cole Associates Inc. of South Bend. Seven loeal lirms were involved in the con­strudion. 
the bar on the city's Huse­
mannstrasse. 
A vegetable shop a few blocks away is shuttered as well, and residents say its owner also has gone to the West. 
East German reform activist Jens Reich says his eye doctor has fled to West Germany. "I fear my dentist's gone as well," said Reich, an East Berlin founder of the fledgling New Forum pro-democracy group. 
About 100,000 East Germans have either fled or emigrated legally to West Germany this year, the greatest flood of East German refugees since the Ber­lin Wall went up in 1961. More than 17,500 of them have gone through Hungary since that country opened its Western' border to East Germans Sept. 10. 
The refugees say they left their homeland because they could no longer bear the lack of 
ate Constitution is planned, and more attention will be paid to following its procedure. 
The Senate is debating about whether to allow Freshman Class Council Advisors to vote at meetings, sinee these Senate members are not elected, but are appointed by a board of Senate members. 
A follow-up to a leadership 
Mom 
continued from page 1 
sideration of Foretieh's chal­lenge to the new law. 
Foretich said Monday evening he was not surprised by the order. "She's a media star, and coercion was bound not to 
democratic freedoms and be­
cause they want better lives in 
the West. 
The exodus has produced a new rash of demands for politi­cal and economic reform among many East Germans who remain behind. Within two weeks of the exodus, Reich's group collected signatures of more than 2,000 citizens sup­porting its pro-democracy de­mands. 
Church officials in East Ger­many have intensified their calls for democratic change as well. They say leaving the coun­try is no way to change it. 
"Someone who is in Bavaria cannot be of service to a patient at the Catholic hospital in Er­furt (East Germany)," East German Roman Catholic Bishop Joachim Wanke has said. 
Sources within the ruling Communist Party, speaking on condition of anonymity, said 
training seminar that took place in Michigan reeently is being considered by the Senate. Both a similar seminar and a soda! activity were diseussed. 
Upeoming events discussed at the meeting include the imple­mentation of the "Irish Ex­press" luggage transportation, and a Security escort service on campus. 
work because of that," he said. 
Morgan's release will not change her mind about refusing to reveal the girl's where­abouts, her attorney said in an interview outside the court­house. 
"She regards her ehild as be­ing unproteeted by the eourt system," Saehs said. 
the drain of medical personnel is so severe in the district of Suhl that doctors there have been forbidden to travel out of the country. 
Officials have not released any figures on how the exodus has affected metlical care or any other professions or busi­nesses. 
The West German Frank­furter Rundschau newspaper said Sept. 18 it was told by church officials a number of hospitals have had to replace employees ranging from stu­dent nurses to chief physicians. 
The refugees who have fled West in the past fow months are mostly young people who left behind good jobs, and in many cases promising careers. 
According to a study released Sept. 12 by West Germany's Ministry for Inner-German He­lations, the refugees worked in industry, medicine and other service-sector areas, crafts. administration and education. 
East Germany has a popula­tion of 16.6 million. 
Scientists search for Rembrandt's bones 
Associated Press 
AMSTEHDAM, Netherlands -In a final bid to recover the bones of one of this city's greatest sons, scientists are peeling away thin layers of soil on the spot where they hope Hembrandt van Hijn was buried 300 years ago. 
The grave of the painter's only son, Titus, surfaeed during restoration work in Amsterdam's 17th-century Westerkerk church, and stu­dents of Hembrandt's life believe the best-known of Dutch masters might have been interred next to Titus. 
"We know that Hembrandt was buried in the Westerk­erk, but the location of his remains is unknown beeause he had no money for a tomb­stone," Willem van Stigt, the arehiteet supervising the restoration project, said in a graveside interview Monday. 
"Titus' grave semns as log­ieal a place as any othor," van Stigt said. Hernbrandt survived his son by on!) year, dying in 1669 at the ago of 63. 
"It would b!) nico if we would know for certain where Hembrandt's gravo is locatod -so many tourists are asking for it," added Philip Korthals Altos, an Amsterdam stockbrok!)r and the chairman of the church's fund-raising committeo. 
Currently, only a marble plaque on the Westerkerk's north wall eommnmorati)S Hem brandt. 
Best-known for his monu­mental "Night Watch," on display in the Hijkmuseum here, Hcmbrandt was a prolific painter whose inno­vative use of light mado him one of tho outstanding rep­rosentativos of the 17th-con­tury Dutch school. 

Catnpus Ministry and You 


(tMPUS 

--------------------------------------th_a_t_e_v-er_y_o_n_e_w_h_o_i_s_h_a_s_s-uc_h__a_________t_h_e_s_e_c_o_n_d_,_a_n_d__n_e_v_e_r_t_a_k_e-----------------------~~~~Sll\)f -----­
You've Got A Friend! 
Do not let people disregard you because you are young... You have in you a spiritual gift. (1 Timothy 4: 12) 
Congratulations!! You have already won a gift! It's waiting for you at your Notre Dame address!! 
Yes, you. In your name. A spiritual gift. It's there, somewhere. But you have it. No question about that. 
"What is my gift?" you might ask. Well, if you don't know, you'd better find out. And how do you find out? Ask your spiritual friend. 
What? You don't have a spiritual friend? or course you do. Maybe you haven't met him or her yet, but you certainly have one. We all do. In fact, it could be suggested, our best relationships are spiritual friendships waiting to occur. 
There are a number of assumptions in what's been said so far, and they warrant examination. 
Assumption #1: You have within you a spiritual gift. 
There is a variety of spiritual gifts. There are all sorts of service to be done. You might have the gift of listening or of talking with wisdom or of teaching or healing or interpreting the gifts of others. But you do have a gift. 
A spiritual gift is that which makes you unique. which allows you to look beyond what appears to be and see or feel ­sometimes at least, and however blurrily or opaquely ­what is truly present or revealed in your daily and/or that of your friends and associates. The assumption is 
gift.

Why a gift? Because we didn't 
work for it or earn it in any 
way. It wasn't given, without 
expectation of obligation. We 
didn't even ask for it (some of 
us don't even want it). But it's 
there and it's ours. 

Assumption #2: You have a 
spiritual friend. 

Your spiritual friend is 
someone you can trust with the 
most intimate dimensions of 
your being. It's someone who 
can and does respect your 
deepest yearnings. It's someone 
with whom you share, 
understand and listen together 
to find ways to authentically 
respond to your various 
yearnings. 

The assumption is that there 
is someone like that for you, 
someone you might not even 
have met yet. It might be your 
roommate or that special 
person in your life right now. 
although those friendships 
usually have an altogether 
different agenda and dynamic. 
It might be a member of your hall staff or of the Campus Ministry staff. It might be an older, more experienced and more mature person in you current acquaintanceship. It might be some priest or brother or sister around here someplace. 
Assumption #3: Our best relationships are spiritual friendships waiting to occur. 
Our best friends are our best friends for a very special reason: they give us life. Those who take life away usually don't become our best friends ( or anybody's best friends, for that matter). Best friends support us when we're down. rejoice with us when we're up, help us move from the first to 
advantage of us in any way:
economically, sexually nor in 
terms of prestige. 
Some of our friends do take 
advantage of us in some ways, 
but BEST FRIENDS never do. 
Best friends can become 
spiritual friends. 
So much for the assumptions. 
Now for some conclusions: 
Conclusion #1: We have the 
need of examining our spiritual 
gifts. 
If we don't examine our 
spiritual gifts, we will never be 
fully developed. We will never 
know fully what our various 
yearnings and depths are all 
about. We'll never be able to 
appreciate them nor to act on 
them. 
Conclusion #2: We can't 
examine our spiritual gifts 
alone. 
"Why can't I do it alone?" you 
might ask. Go ahead. Ask. 
Here's the answer: You can't do 
it alone because alone it's just 
you doing it. 
Good answer! What does it 
mean? 
It means that if we look at 
things beyond our vision with 
our own eyes, we don't see 
them. If we feel things beyond 
our depth, we can't know what 
we've felt. 
But someone with more experience or approaching our experience from a different place can. 
Conclusion #3: Get a spiritual friend. 
Or spiritual director, or advisor. But get one. Someone with whom you can meet on a reguliJ.r basis to discuss things of the heart or things of the soul, knowing that they will hold sacred what is shared, and will deeply respect it and you for it. 


Ordination of Women. 7:30pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Friday, September 29: Rosh Hashanah begins at sundown. Saturday, September 30: 5:00pm Mass, Stepan Center. Rev. Oliver Williams, C.S.C. presiding. Notre Dame Women's Choir. 
Sunday, October 1: Multi-Cultural Week begins. 
10:00 am Mass, Stepan Center. Rev. joseph 
Ross, C.S.C presiding. Notre Dame Liturgical Choir. 
11:45 Mass, Stepan Center. Rev. Stephan 
Newton, C.S.C. presiding. Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
Brought to you weekly by the Office of Campus Ministry and The Observer 

--~-------_...,.______ 
Tuesday, September 26, 1989 The Observer page 5 




Law School Caravan 
Over 45 law schools will be 
represented at this year's event to be held Wednesday, September 27 between 12 and 4 in the Monogram Room of the JACC All interested persons welcome to attend 



Vietnamese leave Cambodia 
Associated Press  speeches, which were prepared  2,000 mortar shells a day on  
for the government-orches­ the town.  
trated ceremony.  The battfe has raised fears  
IIIGHWAY 1, Cambodia - Starting Tuesday, Vietnamese  that Cambodia will slide into  
Thousands of Vietnamese sol­ troops will return home over­ civil war after Vietnam's sol­ 
diers jammed the main highway  land, by ferry on the Mekong  diers are gone. Many Cambodi­ 
in Indochina on Monday night  River and via the Gulf of Thai­ ans say they are worried the  
as they snaked toward the bor­ land.  government army will be unable  
der on the eve of Vietnam's  Vietnam says it is withdraw­ to stand up to the Khmer  
pledged exit from a nearly 11­ ing the last 26,000 of its troops  Rouge.  
year-old war.  in Cambodia and ending its oc­ Cambodians have begun  
Soviet-made armored person­ cupation of its Southeast Asian  stockpiling rice in some cities  
nel carriers, American-made  neighbor.  for fear that guerrilla forces  
trucks. jeeps and artillery, and  The Cambodian resistance  may cut supply lines, sending  
Chinese "Liberation" troop  movement calls the pullout a  the price of rice up at least 200  
transport vehicles clogged the  sham, but already Khmer  percent.  
20-foot-wide stretch of high­ Rouge guerrillas have attacked  Ethnic Vietnamese, who fear  
way for 120 miles from Cam­ a town in western Cambodia in  persecution under the Khmer  
bodia's capital, Phnom Penh, to  an apparent attempt to chal­ Rougte, also have reportedly  
the Vietnamese border.  lenge the Cambodian army, no  begun fleeing back to Vietnam.  
Traffic on the road that Viet­ longer aided by Vietnamese  
nam used as one of its main in­ troops.  The Khmer Rouge seized  
vasions in December 1978 came  On Monday, Khmer Rouge  power in 1975 from American­ 
to a standstill.  radio broadcasts monitored in  backed Gen. Lon Nol after a  
Soldiers hung hammocks un­ Bangkok claimed the guerrillas  civil war. It ruled Cambodia  
der trucks, cooked rice by the  had seized a "strategic posi­ from 1975 to 1978 and killed  
side of the road, and draped  tion" on the road from the  hundreds of thousands of peo­ 
their laundry from anti-aircraft  western town, Pailin, to the  ple in practicing an ultra-radi­ 
guns in the final night before  provincial capital of Battam­ cal form of agrarian commu­ 
the border crossing begins.  bang.  nism.  
"I am very happy to be re­ Vietnam invaded Cambodia in  
turning home to my family,"  Cambodian officials acknowl­ December 1978 and ousted the  
said one soldier from Thai Binh  edged recently that Khmer  Khmer Rouge, replacing it with  
province. "I have been in Cam­ Rouge guerrilla forces occupy  a government to its own liking.  
bodia for 10 years and seen my  parts of the gem-rich area near  Since then, the conflict has  
wife only three times."  Pailin. But Premier Hun Sen  been stalemated.  
Peasants gathered by the side  predicted that the rebels would  
of the road and waved to the  be unable to hold their ground.  China supplies the Khmer  
troops, whose uniforms were  Cambodian officials and a  Rouge with weapons and Thai­ 
decorated with flowers and  Soviet military observer said  land allows the guerrilla group  
medals. Speakers set up for the  the two sides were throwing  to use its territory. The Soviet  
occasion blared the Viet­ their best divisions at each  Union and Vietnam supply  
namcse-Cambodian  other in Pailin. They said the  Cambodia with arms. Peace  
"friendship" song and patriotic  Khmer Rouge was raining up to  talks failed in Paris last month.  
Zookeepers  
Associated Press  
PITTSBURGH To~  
morrow's baby zoo animi:ds.  
from Aruba .. Isla~~ .rat·  
tlesnakes to Grevy'$ zebras.  
are but a gleam in the ey~s  
of zookeepers and aquarium  
directors who are p  

matchmaker this Week. • • ., •............ ~ .. ,.•• endangered species. "We're playing '"'"''"""'"'·"·}~·· 
us are. I sit here who should do what and when they should do it:' s~id Ron Young, an official oftt1e American Association of Z(l~ ological Parks and Aquari­ums. 
"It's.important if we to continue on .some 
blance of what we were.. 

An unidentified passenger, center, is taken from the wreckage of the USAir plane in the East River late Wednesday night while other rescue workers peer into the windows of the plane. The plane crashed in the East River after the pilot tried to abort a takeoff. 
USAir crew may face criminal charges 
Associated Press accident, according to sources in Santucci's office. An airplane is considered a vehicle under 
NEW YORK -Federal inves­state law. tigators went inside the wreck­The last pieces of the jet, age of a USAir jet Monday, which landed partly in the wa­looking for additional clues to ter and partly on a row of pil­the cause of last week's ings, were pulled from the river aborted takeoff and crash into Sunday. the East River that killed two National Transportation people. Safety Board investigators 
Local authorities also were were "for the first time getting investigating the accident at the an opportunity to really go into end of a runway at LaGuardia the wreck and find out what Airport to see if criminal exists in the wreckage," said charges are warranted against Rachel Halterman, an NTSB any crew members of the Boe­spokeswoman. ing 737-400 bound for Char­Over the weekend, the NTSB lotte, N.C. said the rookie co-pilot had 
"If we feel that we have inadvertently pushed a button something to go to a grand jury that cut the throttle. The board with we will do that," said said pilot Michael Martin told Richard Piperno, a spokesman investigators he decided to for Queens District Attorney abort takeoff because of a John Santucci. strange vibration and because 
Charges that a grand jury the aircraft was drifting to the might be asked to consider in­left. clude criminally negligent However, the unexplained homicide, vehicular manslaugh­veer to the left also was being ter and leaving the scene of an 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 26, 1989
page 6 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Edltot"-ln-chlel Chris Donnelly 
Managing Edltot" Business Manager Regis Cocda Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Edllor....... MaHMw Gallagher Advartlalng Manager ............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Edltor .................... Dave Bruner Ad Dnlgn Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Edllor....................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Edltot" .............••......•...... John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Edllor.............................. Eric Bailey OTS Dlr-.ctor ................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Edllor............... Christine GiU Controller............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol· icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob· jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor·in·Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters. and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 


II YOU JU6f ~'T GtJ IT, W'OU ?'' 

Racism barricades a winding road to equality 
By Paul Peralez 
grratf'r organized forum for Through the presentation and discussion and aetion on race­sponsoring of speakers, films,
I recently attended an NAACP 
related issues than the Notre and social gatherings, the

information session and was Dame-St. !\tlary's chapter of the NAACP has been largely suc­both encouraged and disturbed 
NAACP. cessful in promoting under­by what I saw and heard. 

On February 12, 1909-the standing and friendship amongClearly , the NAACP is an orga­100th anniversary of Abraham students of all raees. This year,

nized group-probably the 
Lincoln's birth-"The Call" was the organization is working tomost organized civil rights or­

published in the New York bring Jesse Jackson andganization at Notre Dame. 

Evening Post. This doeument Benjamin Hooks, the president

They are. nonetheless, sub­would become the manifesto of the national NAACP, to thn
jneted to a common misconcep­for what would ultimatPly be University of Notrn Damn.
tion: that the NAACP is exclu­the National Association for Aeclaimed film documentariessively for African Americans the Advancement of Colored and motion pictures addressingand other minority groups. The 
People, incorporated on May raee relations and eivil rightsnumber of people attending 

25, 1911. "The Call" appealed are also in the works. Therefilled no more that five rows at to all Americans "to join in a will also be several opportuni­Montgomery Theater. and the national conference for the dis­ties for organized fun and

group was almost entirely 
cussion of present evils, the recreation for the ehapter's

African American. This attitude seems to glean are a group of undereducated voicing of protests and the re­members. Clearly, there areI was very uncomfortable. I no lesson from history. The Jim and underskilled people, they newal of thE! struggle for civil many faeets of this organiza­was uncomfortable because I Crow laws and the "NO DOGS will not be able to function in and political liberty." tion, and I hope that you willdidn't see more brown faces, OH COLOREDS ALLOWED" an increasingly competitive, The NAACP ehapter or Notre Pxplon· liwm.
more white faces, more faces of signs littered the American complex and global economy. 
Dame and Saint Mary's is Paul Peralez is a student in

people eoncerned about racial landscape as recently as two This is not a minority problem; 
committed to this enterprise. the Freshman Year of Studies.

harmony and the united decades ago. The depraved in­this is an American problem. progression of this University's stitution of black slavery sepa­The strength of our America is and this nation's people. The rated humans from their homes at stake. 
LETTERS

Notre Dame-St. Mary's chapter and from their families. One At this, the most national of of the NAACP can play a must not ascribe separatism to American universities, every 

'New campus magazine focuses on
significant role in this black Americans or to any mi­minority student is an example 
endeavor. nority. They are simply the vic­of America's progress. Here, 
Is there racism at Notre tims of a long history of disen­they can contribute much to the Dame? A young black woman I franchisement and forced sepa­cultural and academic wealth befriended at the Black Cultural ration. of the University of Notre Arts Council luau had a good Until we transcend the Dame. And from here, they can response to this question: mindless and gross generaliza­return to their communities "Look," she said, "Notre Dame tions, we will never end racism and encourage minority youth may be a religious institution and fulfill the promise of to pursue higher education, to but it is not above racism. This America--the promise of fulfill their potential, and to institution is also American­equality and justice for all. This contribute to their society. and in America there is is not, I believe, an overworked Notre Dame's administration racism." I got a sense of what cliche. This is a very sublime has taken many substantive she meant as I approached and practical goal. This nation steps towards increasing and LaFortune to attend the NAACP cannot maintain power if it is maintaining minority represen­gathering. I came within divided along any lines, espe­tation here. This year, for ex­earshot of a conversation be­cially those of race. ample, Notre Dame matricu­tween a couple of people who Racism is demeaning and lated an unprecedented number had just exited the center and crippling and has contributed of minority students into its had apparently noticed the significantly to the poverty and freshman class. Minority stu­NAACP gathering. One of these illiteracy of minority youth in dents comprise roughly 16 per­people remarked that, "The America. Increasingly, minori­cent of the total class. For this problem is not with us. The ties, especially Hispanic the administration must be blacks insist on separating Americans, are constituting a commended. It is now up to the themselves. " I was, in a word, greater percentage of the students of this campus to re­perturbed. American labor force. If they spond. There is, I believe, no 

important local and national issues 
Dear Editor: however. all 1·opies of Dialogue 
Several undergraduates have wPrn thrown away. Dialogueworked since the end of last had permission to distributP in year to establish a new student tlw studPnl ,·,·ntl'r, but appar­
monthly magazine called ently there was miscommunica­Dialogue at Notre Dame. tion in the ranks (Ah, the effi­Dialogue is completely managed ciency of the bureaucraey... ).by Notre Dame students and We hopn to have more copieswill be committed to strong of Dialogue available soon in student advocacy. It will also LaFortune. I hope there will be attempt to examine campus, no more problems with getting political and theological issues copies of our new student in detail. 
magazine.The premier issue was to be Mall Schlapp distributed over the weekend in Editor-in-Chief LaFortune. Due to a costly mis­Dialogue at Notre Dame take by LaFortune security, Sept. 24. 1989 
Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. Send your thoughts to: Viewpoint. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

DOONESBURY GARRY TRLJIJf='AU
.._ 
WWfT FOR? YOUR OF COURSE I AM. 
WAS THAt
AGf3NCf HANl?US 81fT IF YCXJ'R& 
6/le,IJJ'~
OUR At:ZalNT! YOU COMIN6, l3fmtR 
IAJt'U.­
5HOUW 813 Ofl:CJ(JN' '!!iJtP(l.l fT.I W&'RE 
EJI381Ja<
OfJT WHAT U/8'1<8 fJJNNA Ml% 7H8 
tu!TH
UP70 7H85E OAY5( OP8NIN6(ER&­

5A/.13G ~ FI6UR&S 
IN A MO­
MENT! 
I 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'People are lonely because they build walls instead of bridges.' 

Joseph F. Newton 
----~­

--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 




Accent
Tuesday, September 26, 1989 page 7 

IJOurtesy ot the Snite 

Callahan's "Hong Kong, 1985" displays his technique of multiple exposure. A favorite and reccurring theme in his photographs deals with the aspects of the city. 
show the viewer scenes 
from Ireland, Morocco, 
accent writer Egypt, Portugal and New 
York among others. 
A new exhibition from the An example of Callahan's llallmark Photographic pursuit of the complex can Collection, entitled "Harry he seen in one of the tech­Callahan: New Color," is niques he utilizes called 
MICHEAL BAECHLER 
New Color currently on display at the multiple exposure. This ef­Snite Museum of Art. The fect is accomplished by show, which opened August running the film through 20, will run through the camera twice to super­
Black and white photographerOctober 8 in the Print impose one image over an­Drawing and Photography other. The result is always Gallery. unpredictable. One can see
Harry Callahan moves to color 
this in his photo entitled The show has special "Hong Kong, 1985."
significance in that it cele­
Callahan, 75, began tak­the hope of believing in Stevens, associate profes­The exhibit demonstrates 
brates both the 150th an­ing photos in 1938. He something ... and photogra­sor of art, art history and Callahan's efforts to cem­­niversary of the invention 
sought a variety of ideas phy was it." design discussed in his lec­bine the medium of photog­
of photography and the 
from people around him, Black and white photos ture at the Snite how the raphy with the world 
50th year of Callahan's 
including Ansel Adams. were Callahan's original city offered to Callahan, around him. He uses a va­
work as one of J\rnerica's 
Callahan attended a work­focus for which he was well "color, shape and texture, riety of techniques to 
master photographers. 
shop by Adams in 1941 admired. However, he be­ripe and rampant." The achieve this union, attempt­
Seventy-two of his pho­
which sparked his enthusi­gan to use color in 1941 themes in this show, ing to speak to the viewers. 
tographs make up the 
asm for photography. He and experimented with it centering on cities, are He explains, "I like to move 
show, 40 of which are en­
pursued photography with . on and off through the building facades, streets, other people."
tirely new. The exhibition 
a new zest and creativity. early 70s. In 1977 signs, shadows and women, The Snite Museum of Art 
is the first complete survey 
He explains, "I found pho­Callahan started working highlighting Callahan's is open Tuesday through 
of the most recent aspect tography as a hobby, and entirely in color. interest in the eloquently Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 ­of Callahan's career, his 
then finally realized that it Over the years, Callahan's • simple as well as the p.m., Sunday from 1 to 4 
exclusive devotion to color 
was something I really be­most reoccurring subject disorderly and complex. A p.m. There is no admission 
photography. 
lieved in. I had believed in has been the city. Richard visit to the gallery will charge. 
Seasons' plays bring laughs, drama, creativity to campus 
present Anton Chekhov's in Washington Hall February choreography, will mix humor, CINDY PETRITES "Three Sisters" in O'Laughlin 28-March 4. The play, which wit and reality with abstraction
Associate Professor Reginald
accent writer Auditorium November 15-19. pokes fun at everything dear to to create the show, which will 
Bain will direct and Richard Described as humorous, hope­civilized English society­include a piece using college Donnelly will design costumes.
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's less, and gripping, the play money, class, and name-will dancers. New works for the 
Theatre 1989-1990 Season This season also marks the traces the story of Irina, Olga, be directed by Frederic Syburg. concert will also be chore­opens October 11 with arrival of Kevin Dreyer, who 
and Masha Prozorov as they try Kevin Dryer will design scene; ographed by Saint Mary's Moliere's French comedy will design the sets and lighting to fulfill dreams of a better life Richard Donnelly will design College faculty members Indi 
"Tartuffe," an irreverently for "Tartuffe." Dreyer, a free ­in Moscow. This comedy-drama costumes. Dieckgrafe and Kerry Krieman. 
funny and satirical 17th cen­lance lighting designer, is re­reveals the aspirations of mid­Linda Wigley will design. 
tury look at the extremes of placing Willard Neuert and has "Dance '90," an original and
dle-class Russia at the turn of Auditions for "Tartuffe" and false piety and excessive devo­done scene design work for the century and on the verge of eclectic evening of contempo­"Three Sisters" are closed but 
tion. dance with Ballet Florida and rary dance, will close the 1989­
revolution. "Three Sisters" will auditions for "The Importance 
Posing as a devout Ballet Nacional en Venezuela. 1990 Theatre Season in 
be directed by Roberta Rude of Being Earnest" and "Dance 
Christian, title character He has also worked with Walt O'Laughlin Auditorium April 4­
and designed by Linda Wigley. '90" will take place early next Tartuffe makes a fool of the Disney World, the National 8. Guest artists Nusha semester, possibly in mid­gullible Orgon by swindling him Theatre Company of Caracas, Next semester Notre Dame Martynuk and Carter January. Subscriptions to the 
out of his fortune and seducing and Japanese clothing designer will present Oscar Wilde's pop­McAdams, recipients of a fel­theater series will be available his wife. Eventually, Tartuffe is Issey Miyake. ular comedy of manners, "The lowship from the National 
at Washington Hall until stopped and revealed as an im-In addition, Saint Mary's will Importance of Being Earnest," Endowment for the Arts for September 29. 
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, September 26, 1989 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classifieds Is 3 p.m. All classilieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  BABYSITIING NEEDED FOR 2 BOYS 1 &3, OCCASSIONAL Y ON  HELP! Need 4 Pitt GAs for my family Call Chad x1132  PURDUE tickets needed. call Will4048  I'll buy any tickets tor any home game, or Miami.  NEW YORK NEW YORK NEW YORK If u r headed to Albany,  
TYPING Pickup & Delivery  WEEK DAY NIGHTS. CALL 287­3694  Need up to 4 Mich St & 8 Pitt TIX Money no problemll Mike X1236  TRADE 1 USC Student ticket for  call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks.  NYC, or anywhere betw. the 2, I need a ride home for Oct. Break. Will share expenses and driving.  
277-7406  National Marketing Firm seeks mature student to manage on­campus promotions lor top  need 8 Mich St Ga's. Rick #1795  1 USCGA Call Joe at 283-2174  Can leave and return whenever...please call x3442.  
Word processing experience plus BA in English 271·0682.  companies this school year. Flexible hours with earnings potential to $2,500 per semester.  DESPERATELY SEEKING 5 USC GA'S. PLEASE CALL CARI2855.  NEED SMU TICKETS Student or GA's Call Joe 283-2174  I NEED 2 PITI GA's FOR MY PARENTS CALL SUE x2485  ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A  
TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 684·8793 LEGAL SECRETARY WILL DO TYPING/WORD PROCESSING.  Must be organized, hardworking and money motivated. Call Joe or Myra at (800) 592·2121. Looking lor a fraternity, sorority or student organization that would  H.......E.....L ...P NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER) FOR ANY GAME. WILL PAY BIG MOOLAH ($$).PLEASE CALL JEFF 277-3998.  Student tickets for sale; Pittsburgh (3) SMU (2) Navy (3) Call287·9854 (Ted or Greg)  NEED 3 GA'S FOR PITI.,NAVY, OR USC. HAVE CASH AND PITI. STUD. TO TRADE! CALL JOE AT 2079  CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. Hi Jeff CP,  
PICK UP & DELIVERY AVAILABLE. CALL 255-1726.  like to make $500-$1,000 for a one week on-campus marketing project. Must be organized and hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at (800) 592-2121.  I NEED 6 PITI TICKETS CALL 277-9281 OR X2760. WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$  SO. CAL-NEED 6 TIC'S HAVE 2 PITI, NAVY, SO. METH WILL TRADE CALL 215-642-2765  WANTED 2 FOR USC WILL TRADE 2 PENN ST 301-949-4392 COLLECT  Ag MIAMI FLIGHTS ' MIAMI FLIGHTS  
Have you figured out ... .. . how you're going to do it?  Looking to buy any of the "BO KNOWS ..." shirts.  Need two SMU tix please call 284· 4930!!!1111!11 NEED SEVERAL PITI GA'S  PURDUE tix,pair, FOR SALE Dave (201) 729-9172, Evenings, Eastern Time  PURDUE TIX-5 TIX AVAILABLE BEST OFFER. CALL 317-743­2443.  Round-trip airfares to Miami or Fort Lauderdale. Depart Nov. 22 from Midway (Chicago); return Nov. 27 to Midway (Chi.) .  
Huh? Have you? Any ideas?  call Laure at 4801  PLEASE!!  112819  I need 4 Navy tickets-2std. &2G.A. Please call Sean H. at X4327.  HELP HELP HELP I NEED 2 USC GA'S !!I!!  $239 for students, $265 tor others. Tix sold on first-come, first-serve basis, and are non-refundable.  
Alumni Senior Club Needs STUDENT COMEDY call Bill 277-3653 or 239 7521 TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 Word Processing available.  FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 2 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT. 5 MINUTE WALK TO CAMPUS. $350. 234-4153.  TICKETS WANTED: 4 SO. CAL. (318) 942-9771, (W); (318) 942­7164, (H). CALL COLLECT. Need many MIAMI tix.  NEED 2 PITI GA'S CALL KEVIN X1247 NEED 4 PITI GA'S CALL TONY AT 234-1048 SELLING 4 PURDUE GA'S. CALL JIM AT 277-9198  I HAVE CASH!!! PLEASE CALL ALLISON AT 2128 !!!!!I Yo! Vol Me and King M1das need GA'sto: U.S.C., PITI, NAVY,PSU  Anthony Travel 1 -800-?DOME AS " R.E.M. ticket contest" Do you want to see R.E.M. on Fri. Sept. 29? Then listen to WVFI !! When you hear an R.E.M. song, be the first caller and get your name in a drawing to win a pair of  
Reasonable rates. 277-6091  FURNISHED APT FOR SUBLET 3 MALE ROOMMATES. $140  $ $ $ $ Barry 289-8417.  need usc ga's call diane x2702  call SPANKY x4274  tree tickets! Drawing on Sept. 27 '" WVFI AM 640 "'  

 CALL TODD 232-5571  NEED 4 NAVY GAs X3500-WATIS  
LOST/FOUND  HAPPY 21 to PAT HEALY! Oh  Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653  I NEED PURDUE TIX MIKE #4047  "JOHN FROM ZAHM:" You have made my first month here wonderful ... and everythin'  
LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH RING OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND STONE REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF  yeah. Let's lire up! BEER RUN! BARS! BABES! In other words ... YES. Oh wait, you mean he's only 20? Then never mind. Maybe next year.  Desperate! Will give my first born or any $ tor 2 USC GAs Chris B #1484  NEED 2 GA'S AND 3 STUDENT TIX FOR ANY GAME. WILL INCLUDE 1 TOXIC AND RODENT PROOF SUIT GOOD FOR A VISIT  NEED PITIGA'S PLEASE!! BETH 3706  elsel Thanx sweetie! CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly  
FOUND. LOST: JEAN JACKET WITH  COLOR TV RENTALS  WANTED: USC va. NO TICKETS  TO THE DINING HALL. CALL KELLY X4420  Desperately need 2 USC GAs, Will pay $$$ Call Sean X4332  specials. pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541  
CORDUROY COLLAR. JACKET  19-INCH, $701SEM. $120/YR;  2411r. answering service  ADOPTION: Loving, professional  
HAS A TEAR BEHIND THE NECK AND HAS A 1988 US OLYMPIC PIN ON THE LEFT POCKET. REWARD OFFERED FOR RETURN CALL MARK . X3467  25-INCH, $901SEM, $160/YR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272· 5959  (213) 487-4181 Home (213)422-2812 NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVY!!!!!  Need 3 GA's & 1 stud 4 USC game. Will pay finder's tee. Call Dave 277-3687  I have one extra So Cal ticket, will trade for one Pitt ticket. Call evening or leave message: (312) 784·8182  couple in Midwest wishes to adopt newborn. We offer stable and happy home. financial security, welcoming extended family. PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711  
FOUND:  a watch in Knott study  FOR SALE  PLEASE CALL KARIN x132111!  PITI or USC GAs needed desparately. Please call  I need 4 Ga tix DESPERATELY to any home game!! (312) 869­ after 6:30 pm weekdays, anytime weekends.Attorney involved.  
room.  Kathleen  x4930.  NEED 2 USC GA'S  Mike at #2288.  7677:Peter  Attention N.D. Students I  
LOST: MINOLTA FREEDOM ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, NOT PAID FOR. VERY, VERY VALUABLE!!! CALL PETE AT #1863 ANYTIME! $100.00 REWARD ~-----------------------------------­A uhonest. or ? lost pr. black Vuarnets at Lafortune's auto bank teller. 9111 Please call X4043 or leave wl Carroll Hall rector. HELPI!! Levi's Jean Jacket with all my ID lost Sat. night. Probably in Alumni somewhere. x4777.  ATIENTION ·GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U-repair). Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602-838· 8885 Ext. GH 6262. ATIENTION ·GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES FROM $100. FORDS, MERCEDES, CORVETIES, CHEVYS. SURPLUS BUYERS GUIDE. 1· 602-838-8885 EXT A 6262. Is It True .... Jeeps for $44 through the Government? Call lor facts! 1­312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 79 BUICK LIMITED  CALL CAROLYN X451 0 I DEMAND 6 stud tix and 2 GA's tor the PITI game--Pete L.x1791 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'S PLEASE CALL 277-9281 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I need 3 USC GA's-call Jahnelle x2979 I need USC GA's. Will beat best offer. Ann x2830 Need Pitt student tix (3). Call Nicole 2784.  NEED SEVERAL PITI TIX PLEASE!! 112819 NEED 2 USC GA'S Please Call Vin x-2015 Save dad's job! Boss and family need 2-4 USC GA or stdnt tix. PLEASE call Pete at X1699-l'd like to stay at ND.$$ NEED 2 GA's FOR PITiorNAVY Please Call Vin x-2015  NEED up to 6 USC GAs $ no problem. Jim x1236 SELLING 4 PURDUE tix tor FACE John #1665 I need two GA tix for Pitt or Navy. Call Bill X2008. NAVY thugs beat up my dog. Let my parents see the Irish stomp them. Need 2 GAs x1160 I NEED 'EM! 2USCGA'S call Paula x4633  $4.50 Haircuts VITO'S BARBERSHOP 1523 Lincolnway West 233·4767 JUNIORS!!! JUNIORS!!! Buy tixs to the OCT. 6 FALL FORMAL all this week at 3 -5 pm in the Class office. TROY and DAVE Return to CLUB 23 Thurs. Night at 10:00 More Songs, More Sound, and even More Free Parking ..  
-- WANTED V-Tapes all 1988-89 N.D. football games. Please call Paul Roy 232· 7602 Need ride to Pittsburgh ijust one way) for October break. Need to leave Sunday morn. the 22 (after the USC game). Will help with expenses. Call Nicole 2784. NEED 4 PITI GAs CALL DOUG at x1 065  85'000 MILES. VERY GOOD CONDITION. 239-7455 WEEKDAYS 9AM · 4PM One-way ticket Midway to LaGuardia Sun. P.M. Oct . 22 Call 277-0679 Great Bahamian vacation Ill !Ill call x1839 lor details '75 chevy; runs great; $6001negotiable call282-1327  NEED 2 USC GAs!! Rebecca 4975 AIR FORCE · need 3 tix. call John at 1665. NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAMES. CALL MATI 272-3491. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Alumni need USC tix. Will pay big lawyer bucks !! Call Sam at (201) 334-3804 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  HELP, THE WHOLE FAMILY IS COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED LOTS OF TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN OR ERIKAT1622 I NEED 2 PITI GA'S (FOR MY PARENTS)!!! CALL CARYN 4830. ELVIS IS DEAD and so am I if I can't find 3 GA tickets to the Pitt game. 317-743-7208. Help! Need 3 GA tickets to Pitt  $$$$$$$$$$NEED$$$$$$$$$$ SMU and MIAMI GA'S TRADE FOR BLANK CHECK!!!!!! CALL JEFF AT 283-1504. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: USC vs. ,NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487· 4161 Home (2131422-2812  Alissa, Angie. C1ndy, Kristin, Kath, Maggie, Burke, 335H.C., Mol­Bags, Shelia__ KEEP _THE_FAITH ____ MOZER Need Ride to Madison, WI. or LaCrosse, WI. tor weekend of 9129-1011 Can leave Thursday or Friday, anytime. Call Bill, 271-8483. Need Ride to Madison, WI. or LaCrosse, WI. tor weekend of 9129·1 0/1. Can leave Thursday or Friday, anytime.  
PLEASE HELP!! I desperately need an SMU  game. 317-743-7208.  PERSONALS  Call Bill, 271-8483.  
I will pay for ALL EXPENSES for a ride to Cleveland, traveling any time between 9128 and 1012. Please call 288·2956 Need a babys1ner in my home for two children 6 and 3 years old (noon-5:30 daily M-F). References  Microwave Oven Rentals 1.5 cubic foot $75 now til May Collegiate Rentals 272-5959 SONY 100Wich AN Rcvr,SurrSnd+2·1 DOW spkrs.Asking $400 call Mark>271­0672  student of GA ticket!! Thanks! Johanna at II 4456 I NEED 2 USC GA'sl!!!!! MAURA x3835. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need SMU and NAVY GA's:  Need TIXX to any home football game.Big $$$.Call John X1583 'HELP THE NEEDY I need 2USC tix I need 2SMU tix GA call 4364 Kevin H ·······-·····--··---············-·r  JUNIOR CLASS FALL FORMAL Oct. 6 at Century Center Tickets ($20) ava1lable at Class Olfice (3-5 pm.) sold thru Oct. 4  Alumni Senior Club ............. WED 9-2 Foreign policy nile OJ Bryan Rao THURS 9-2 Club Cup Nite DJ Todd Brown FRI 9·2 LIVE... ST. PAUL and the MARTYRS SAT 9·2 Pur-WHO nile OJ Luis Munoz  
required, please call 255-3869  Call Jim at 287-9854  R.E.M. TICKETS  What of lords with whom you have  
after 5:30. HELPII! I NEED 1·2 USC GA'S FOR A CA LAWYER!! CALL x2529  TICKETS  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I REALLY REALLY REALLY need 2 Navy GA or stud. tix. If you can  Four 13th row, center tickets Best offer. Call 3590 or 3897 NEED 2 USC GAS AND 7 NAVY GAS II!!!! CALL JULIE X3141 !II!!!!  Surgeon General's Warning: Cracking your knee caps CAN cause arthritis, desp1te what your dermatologist may have told you.  supped, I And of dukes you dined with yestreen? I Sir, a louse is still but a louse, I Thought it crawl on the curls of a queen! --BurnsiDPS  
help me out, call Kate at x3858.  
- If you have $99 airfare tickets you are willing to sell call Lisa at X2822 ATIENTION ·HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17.840-$69,485. Call 1·602·838­8885. EXT A 6262.  Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today.  I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S and 1 SMUGA CALL KRISTEN AT X2735 have two GA's for SMU and PITI need 3 USC ··ANNE 2670 NEED 2 SMU GA'S BADLY! Call Krista X1618  TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S 312-920-9350 PLANE TICKET: one-way Chicago to Salt Lake, good from 11-6-89 to 10-30-90, female only, $140 OBO. Call Karin at x2565.  JUNIORS IF INTERESTED IN BEING INVOLVED WITIH A CLASS SERVICE PROJECT, THERE IS STILL TIME. CALL TERRY LOUGHRAN x1712 Jen,  JUNIORS Proofs From The "lnfamous"Chicago Cruise Are On Sale In The Junior Class Olfice From Tues. Thru Fri. Come See How Much Fun You Actually Had !Ill TO THE MAN WITH THE TURTLE FETISH: IN CASE YOU DIDN'T  
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS/ $32,0001year income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262.  Help, the whole family is coming tor USC, so we need lots of tickets. Willing to pay big bucks. Call John or Erich at x1622.  I need many tickets for the Navy game. Please call Colin at x1930.  GA TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME-CALL 283-4618 I NEED PURDUE & ALL HOME GAME TIX 272-6306  Don't go to that hotel-you'll regret it tor the rest of your lite. Love, Me's group  NOTICE · MY PUPILS ARE DIALATED TOO! HAPPY 21ST TO MY BEST FRIEND! ALL MY LOVE­"YOUR GIRLFRIEND"  

Tuesday, September 26, 1989 The Observer page 9 
~PORTS BRIEFS
Bengals dispose of Browns 21-14 
Esaison's three TDs, Skow's defense defeats Browns 
Synchronized Swim Club will practice from 4:30 to 6:30 
p.m. Wednesday at Hockne Pool. Everyone is welcome. 
CINCINNATI -Boomer Esia­yard-line with 1:41 left when who later missed a 44-yarder, son threw three touchdown Eric Thomas knocked down a missed a 48-yard field-goal at­passes and Jim Skow led a sec­fourth-down pass. tempt. 
Observer Sports Department will hold a mandatory ond-half defensive surge as the Skow, meanwhile, was cred­But it didn't matter as the de­
meeting for all new and current writers at 7:30 p.m. Cineinnati Bengals beat the ited with 2 1/2 sacks on Cleve­fense almost completely shut 
Wednesday, Sept. 27. Call Theresa at 239-5303 for more 
Browns 21-14 Monday night, land's first two possessions of down Cleveland, sacking Kosar 
information. handing Cleveland its first loss the second half, giving Cincin­six times and holding the of the season. nati good field possession both Browns without a first down in Rowing Club will hold a meeting at 7:30p.m. Wednesdaytimes. lie also dumped Tim both the first and third quar­night in Room 118 Nieuwland for all members going toEsiason, who had just three Manoa for no gain on a fourth­ters. 
Pittsburgh.
TD passes in nine previous and-1 at the Bengals' 9 with Kosar, who threw for 163 games against the Browns, 7:52 left. yards and two touchdowns in matched that output. lie had the first half, finished with 15 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at the Observer of­second-quarter scoring tosses The first time Skow got a completions in 23 attempts for 
fice from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. of eight and 16 yards to tight sack, the Bengals capitalized, 203 yards. end Hodncy llolman, then hit going 49 yards in six plays, It was the 11th straight home James Brooks with a 19-yarder capped by the TO pass to win for the Benglas, now tied 
5:05 into the second half to put Brooks from Esiason, who fin­with the Browns for first in the Cubs G·lants Blue Jaysthe Bengals ahead for good. ished with 14 completions in 20 
AFC Central at 2-1. They got 78 ' ' ' 
But it took two late goal-line attempts for 104 yards, plus 34 yards rushing from rookie Eric • stands by the Bengals to win it, yards rushing on five carries. Ball, replacing the injured lckey AthletiCS 
the second ending at the 3-The second time, Jim Gallery, Woods. atop their divisions 

AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East Division East Division 

W L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 
Toronto 86 71 .548 
Chicago 89 68 .567 
Baltimore 85 72 .541 1 St. Louis 85 72 .541 4 
Boston 79 77 .506 6 112 New York 82 74 .526 6 112 
Milwaukee 79 77 .506 6112 Montreal 81 76 .516 8 
Cleveland 71 85 .455 14112 Pittsburgh 72 84 .462 16112 New York 71 85 .455 14112 Philadelphia 63 94 .401 26 Detroit 57 100 .363 29 West Division 
West Division 
w L Pet. GB 

W L Pet. GB 
San Francisco 91 65 .583 
Oakland 94 61 .606 
San Diego 86 70 .551 5 California 89 67 .571 5112 Houston 83 74 .529 8112 
Kansas City 89 67 .571 5112 Los Angeles 73 83 .468 18 Texas 80 75 .516 14 Cincinnati 72 84 .462 19 
Minnesota 77 80 .490 18 Atlanta 62 95 .395 29112 
Seattle 69 87 .442 25112 Chicago 67 89 .429 27112 
Monday's Games 
Late Game Not Included Boston 7, New York 4 Toronto 2, Detroit 0 Chicago 10, Minnesota 2 Baltimore 5, Milwaukee 3 Texas at Oakland Only games scheduled 
Tuesday's Games AP Photo New York at Boston Toronto at Detroit The Baltimore Orioles remained one game behind the Toronto Blue Jays in the American League East with a Minnesota at Chicago Baltimore at Milwaukee
5-3 win over the Milwaukee Brewers. Pete Harnisch won for the first time since Sept., holding the Brewers to 
Texas at Oakland
three hits over 6-and-a-third innings before getting relief from Mark Williamson and Gregg Wilson, who 
Cleveland at Seattle picked up the save. The Orioles won with three-run production in the third inning and a two-run fourth inning. Kansas City at California 
Notre Dame still No.1 in top twenty-five; Pitt moves into top ten for first time in five years 
Associated Press 
-an amazing 76 percent -for first-place votes was the same Colorado did not play.
663 yards and four as last week -57 for Notre 
Notre Dame isn't the only touchdowns. Dame, the other three for Syracuse fell eight spots to school that's waking up the "Was I surprised at the way Miami. No. 18 following its loss to Pltt, echoes. he played? Yes, and not The Fighting Irish, who beat but that wasn't the biggest 
Pittsburgh, the alma mater of pleasantly surprised," Syracuse Michigan State 21-13, received drop among ranked teams. Mike Ditka, Tony Dorsett and coach Dick MacPherson said. 1,497 points from a panel of Washington plunged 10 places Dan Marino, is is 3-0 and Not pleasant also would be sports writers and to No. 21 following a 20-17 ranked 1Oth in The Associated an apt description of Pitt's · broadcasters -the same total loss to Arizona. The victory Press' college football poll -remaining schedule. as the previous week. Miami, a lifted the Wildcats from No. 23 its first Top 10 ranking in five The Panthers, who rose three 38-7 winner over Missouri, to No. 17. years. spots in this week's poll, play drew eight points closer vvith 
ninth-ranked West Virginia on 1,432. Loses dropped Oregon, UCLA 
"People are starting to find the road Saturday. An even and Ohio State out of the out we're contenders, not tougher test will be consecutive Nebraska was third, followed rankings. Stanford edged pretenders," quarterback Alex games against top-ranked by Auburn, Colorado, Michigan, Oregon 18-17 and Southern Van Pelt said. "We've opened Notre Dame and No. 2 Miami Clemson, Arkansas and West California routed Ohio State some eyes now. We're making on Oct. 28 and Nov. 11. Virginia. Michigan and 42-3. some people believe." "This is a good start, but I Colorado switched positions, 
told our kids to look down the but otherwise the order was the Moving into the rankings 
In Pitt's 30-23 victory over schedule and they'll get sick," same as last week. were No. 23 Georgia, No. 24 Syracuse Saturday night, the Pitt coach Mike Gottfried said. Nebraska pounded Minnesota Air Force and No. 25 Florida redshirt freshman completed 48-0, Michigan edged UCLA 24-State. Georgia beat Mississippi 25 of 32 passes for 306 yards Notre Dame rPtained the top 23, Clemson beat Maryland 31-State 23-6, Air Force defeated and one touchdown. In his first spot in the poll for the third 7, Arkansas downed Mississippi Texas-El Paso 43-26 and three college games, Van Pelt straight week, while Miami 24-17 and West Virginia beat Florida State clobbered Tulane has completed 51 of 67 passes remained No. 2. The split of Louisville 30-21. Auburn and 59-9. 


Wake up,Serra-chan! 
Yes, Chickie, we did remember. 
lHl®~~w ~®~®~oo ~~[ft)@J ~o!Jit[}u@l®W~ 
<V -Ananta no Tomodachi 
Monday's Games 
Late Games Not Included Pittsburgh 4, St. Louis 2 Montreal 4, Chicago 3, 10 innings Philadelphia 2, New York 1 Atlanta 5, Houston 3 Cincinnati at San Diego, (late) San Francisco at Los Angeles. (late) 
Tuesday's Games St. Louis at Pittsburgh Chicago at Montreal Philadelphia at New York Atlanta at Houston Cincinnati 3t San Diego San Franc1sco at Los Angeles 
Irish football sti II atop poll, Miami holds onto No. 2 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Asso­ciated Press college football poll, with first­place votes in parentheses. records through Sept. 23, total points based on 25­24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16-15-14·13­12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last week's ranking: 
Record P1s Pvs 
1. 
Notre Dame (57) 3-0-0 1 ,497 1 

2. 
Miami, Fla. (3) 3-0-0 1 ,432 2 3. Nebraska 3-0-0 1 ,315 3 4. Auburn 2-0-0 1 ,284 4 5. Colorado 3-0-0 1,236 6 


6. Michigan H -0 1,1 93 5 7. Clemson 4-0-0 1 ,186 7 8. Arkansas 2-0-0 1 ,030 8 9. West Virginia 4-0-0 955 9 
10. Pittsburgh 3-0-0 943 13 11. Southern Cal 2-1-0 852 12 12. Tennessee 3-0-0 803 14 13. Alabama 2-0-0 725 15 14. Houston 2-0-0 659 17 
15. N. Carolina St. 4-0-0 565 1 8 16.0klahoma 2-1-0 544 16 17. Arizona 3-1-0 495 23 18. Syracuse 2-1-0 462 1 0 19. Washington St. 4-0-0 422 19 20. Illinois 2-1-0 366 20 21. Washington 2-1-0 320 11 22. TexasA&M 2-1-0 233 21 23. Georgia 2-0-0 24 3 24. Air Force 4-0-0 163 25. Florida St. 2-2-0 145 
Other receiving votes: Michigan St. 117, UCLA B4, Texas Tech 61. Virginia 58, Penn St. 30, Oregon 24, Fresno St. 18, South Carolina 15, Louisville 13, Missis­sippi St. 13, Hawaii 9, Army 6. Mississippi 4, Brigham Young 2, Florida 2, LSU 2, E. Michigan 1, Indiana 1, Ohio St. 1. Stanford 1. 


Tuesday, September 26, 1989
page 10 The Observer 
Cubs fall, Blue Jays bounce back Rugby, sailing, waterpolo, 

Pirates beat Cardinals 4-2; Rangers down Athletics 3-2 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL -The magic countdown is one less for the Chicago Cubs. 
Chicago missed a chance to clinch a tic for the National League East championship Monday night, losing to Montreal 4-3 in 10 innings. But they still managed to reduce their magic number to two games as Pittsburgh beat second-place St. Louis. 
St. Louis and Chicago each have five games left and the Cubs have a four-game lead. 
The Cubs, who have a magic number of two games, can clinch the division Tuesday night if they beat the Expos and the Cardinals lose to the Pirates . 

.... 
Phillies 2, Mets 1 
New York's pennant chase finished in failure as they lost to Philadelphia on Tom Herr's eighth-inning homer and were eliminated from the NL East raee. 
Bob Ojeda, 13-11, took a two­hitter into the eighth. Bob P ·rnier singled but was picked off by Ojeda. 
Former Met Len Dykstra singled with two outs and Herr followed with his second home run of the season. It was his first homer in 342 at-bats since June 10, when he hit one off Montreal's Bryn Smith. 



Crime 
continued from page 12 
Morrissey. Brian Friessen reeorded 3 interceptions, one of which led to a 65 yard touch­down reception by Dave Kane. Brenden Max, the quarterback for Kane's score, also kicked a 33 yard field goal. 
Shannon Fish then came in to take over the quarterbacking duties, and struck like lightning, delivering a 53 yard touchdown pass to a streaking Dan Flinn. Skip Walsh added an interception for the Crime. However, amidst all the scoring, another significant factor in the Crime's success is the fact that they did not punt onee. 
Finally, Carroll bludgeoned 


Pitt 
continued from page 12 
giving him a lot of time to throw the ball. Bubby has spent most of his time scrambling out of the pocket in order to escape the swarming defenses which have sacked him 17 times already. 
Meanwhile, the defensive line isn't making anybody forget 

Pirates 4, Cardinals 2 
Barry Bonds hit a two-run homer and Benny Distefano and Mike LaValliere hit consecutive home runs in the s~ond inning as Pittsburgh hurt St. Louis' chances in the NL East. 
Jose DeLeon, 16-2, lost for the first time since Aug. 10. DeLeon had won five consecutive decisions. 
Neal Heaton, 6-7, won his fifth straight decision and held the Cardinals to one run in five innings. He is 3-0 with a 1.33 ERA in five starts since rejoining the rotation on Sept. 5. 
Braves 5, Astros 3 

Ron Gant scored the tying run in the fourth inning and drove home the go-ahead run in the fifth, leading Atlanta past Houston. 
With the score tied 3-3, Mark Lemke and David Justice singled to start the fifth inning off Dan Schatzeder, 4-1. Gant then doubled to left field scoring Lemke with the go­ahead run. 
After Ed Whited was intentionally walked to load the bases Bob Forsch struck out Lonnie Smith and walked pinch­hitter Darrell Evans, forcing home Justice with the fifth run. 
St. Ed's 14-3 behind a potent Rockne League offense led by quarterback Jaek Hay. After blocking a punt in the first quarter, Mark Micheka found the end zone, and Carroll led 8­0 after making the two-point conversion. Hay then rushed live yards to score on a keeper play, but Carroll missed the ex­tra point, giving the Vermin 14 points .on the day. St. Ed's scoring came from Tim Thornton, who tacked on a 35 yard field goal in the second quarter of play. 
In the day's other games, Pangborn eclipsed Fisher 14-7 and Grace sneaked by Dillon 7­0 thanks to a defense that "pursued like wildmen." Also, Holy Cross and Stanford clubbed out a 6-6 tie, while Keenan and Flanner battled 
Greene, L.C. Greenwood, and the Iron Curtain of yesteryear. 
They've  managed  to  sack  
opposing  quarterbacks  only  
five times.  

So how can the Steelers salvage the season? If their offensive line recovers from numerous injuries, they swap their eleven defensive starters for the first unit of the Chicago Bears, and Franco Harris returns after bathing in a 
Apparitions in Medjugorje­
a  talk  by  newspaper  publisher  
Wayne  Weible  
University  of  Notre  Dame,  Hesburgh  

Library Auditorium Saturday, September 30 at 7:00 PM 
The reported apparitions of the Virgin Mary in the village of Medjugorje, Yugoslavia will be the topic of a talk by Wayne Weible, newspaper publisher from Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. A Lutheran, Weible has authored a book on his experiences with the apparitions and on the impact which the Mother of Jesus has had on his life. 
Sponsored by the Knights of the Immaculata, in conjunction with Queen of Peace Ministries. 
Blue Jays 2, Tigers 0 
The Toronto Blue Jays snapped a two-game skid and assured themselves of remaining in first place in the American League East by defeating the Detroit Tigers for the ninth consective time Monday night as Tony Fernandez hit a two-run homer in a 2-0 victory. 
The Blue Jays began play one game ahead of the Baltimore Orioles, whose game in Milwaukee began an hour later. The Blue Jays and Orioles close out the regular season with three games in Toronto this weekend. Toronto's victory eliminated third-place Milwaukee, which fell 6 1/2 games out. 
Rangers 3, Athletics 2 
Oakland missed a chance to clinch a tie for its second straight AL West title when Texas' Fred Manrique hit a two-run homer in the eighth inning, only the 15th of his 3 1/2-year major-league career. 
Todd Burns took over the pitching duties in the eighth, trying to save Bob Welch's 18th victory. But he issued a leadoff walk to pinch hitter Jack Daugherty and one out later 
Manrique hit a 1-2 pitch that struck the screen on the left­field foul pole for his fourth homer of the season. 
their way to a 0-0 standstill. 
Next Sunday features another promising slate of bouts. In the Rockne League, Fisher will test Carroll at 3 p.m. at Stepan North, while St. Ed's hopes to improve versus Sorin at 2 p.m. at Stepan South. 
Parseghian League action will pit Morrissey and Dillon at 1 p.m. at Stepan North, and Flanner versus Off-Campus at 4 p.m., also at Stepan North. In the League's other matchup, Grace and Keenan will spar at 3 p.m. at Stepan South. 
Finally, this week's Leahy League games will feature Stanford and Alumni at 1 p.m. at Stepan South, while Cavanaugh and Holy Cross will grapple at 2 p.m. at Stepan North. 
fountain of youth, Chuck Noll's club might win half their games. 
Otherwisf', it appears that the best football games in town this year won't take place at Three Rivers Stadium. Instead, smart fans will head across town to the University of Pittsburgh, where a young man named Van Pelt will try to 


Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's Box Office, located in O'Lau$1in Auditorium, Mon-m 9 a.m.-4 p.m. 


rowing clubs get under way 
After last weekend's disappointing tic to Miehigan, the A side of the Rugby Club was looking to come up with a big performance against highly-touted Bowling Green. Although the Irish put forth a good effort, it wasn't enough to overcome their tough opponents from the Buckeye state. Notre Dame fell 26-18. Before the Irish knew what hit them, they found themselves trailing 16-0. 
Mike Kamradt Club Corner 

The Irish did get on the scoreboard near the end of the 
half as Brian Lennon converted a 4-point try to make the 
seore 16-4 at the half. 
The Irish came out smoking in the second half as Shawn 
McNamarra and Vic Pisani each broke through for 4-point 
tries. 

With a conversion kiek added to one of the tries, Notre 
Dame had closed the gap to 16-14 with 16 minutes to play. 
Four minutes after Pisani's score, lightning struck again as 
Bowling Green scored another 4-point try. 
The B side bounced baek from last week's defeat at 
Michigan and posted an impressive 18-4 win. 
The C side didn't fair as well as the B side as they took one 
on the chin, losing 46-3. The Irish scored their lone points 
on a penalty drop kick. 
The Sailing Club will hope to keep the momentum of last 
weekend's strong finishes as they send teams to Michigan 
and Marquette this weekend. The Irish will send four 
competitors to the big Carrie Price Regatta at Michigan. 
Paige Cooper will skipper the A team and will have Greg 
Farlow as her crewman. The B team will have Watts 
Hudgens as skipper and Patti Losinske as the crew. 
Some of the biggest powers in eollegiate sailing will be present at this regatta including Navy and Connecticut College. The Irish are at a disadvantage due to the faet that the 470, an Olympic class boat, will be used at the regatta. 
The Waterpolo Club enters its third week of praetiee as it prepares for its first tournament, the Wiseonsin Invitational, Oct. 5-7. Big T<in schools Wiseonsin, Illinois and Northwestern are included among the teams competing. 
The Rowing Club braved the fifty-degree temperatures and blustery winds of Saturday to hold their Alumni row on the St. Joseph River. The rowers got off to an early start as they had a headpiece (practice raee) at 8 a.m. The rowers defeated the alumni in all three of the 1,000 meter raees. 

Irish golfers take fifth place 
Special to The Observer a three-way tie for seeond: Purdue, Indianapolis and 
The Notre Dame golf team Indiana all scored 598. finished fifth in the 13-team The Irish, led by Pat Mohan, Indiana Intercollegiate Golf finished fifth with a 615. Championships held Monday in Mohan tied with Steve Zionsvile. Kreiger of Indiana for second 
with seores of 144, but Mohan Ball State took the team title parred the first playoff hole to with a score of 595, followed by secure the runner-up spot. 

Meeting for ALL photographers 7 p.m. Wednesday, September 27 in the Sarin Room, LaFortune 
Saint Ma~'s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME ··INDIANA 

Tuesday, September 26, 1989 The Observer page 11 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Noon Kellogg Seminar. Brown Bag Lunch in Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. The Military and Democratization Comparing South America and Southern Europe, presented by Felipe Aguero, a residential fellow at the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and a Chilean sociologist. 
MENUS Notre Dame 
Bourbon Baked Ilam Mexican Lasagna Fish Nuggets Three Cheese Croissant 


What are you thinking? 
Give us your Viewpoint. And read it in The Observer every day. 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL -/VA TTERSON 


BUZZ MC FLATTOP MICHAEL F. MULDOON 

The  following numbers win the right to purchase 2  Purdue tix:  
149002 149003 149004 149005 149008 149009 149010 149011 149012 149013 149014 149016 149017 149019 149021 149022 149024 149025 149026 149027 149021 149029 149030 149031 149032 141033 149034 149036 149039 149041 149046  149048 149049 149054 149055 149058 149061 149063 149064 149069 149071 149076 149078 149079 149080 149082 149083 149085 149087 149090 149092 149095 149097 149099 149101 149103 149107 14!1101 149109 149110 149117 149111  1411lt 1491:U 149123 149125 149126 149128 149129 149130 149131 149132 149136 149138 149140 149141 149142 149146 149147 149149 149150 149153 149161 149162 149164 149165 149166 149171 149172 149173 149174 149175 149177  149171 149111 149182 149184 149188 149192 149193 149197 149200 149201 149202 149203 149204 149205 149206 149210 149211 149221 149222 149225 149226 149227 149221 149229 149232 149236 149237 149231 14t::ll9 149242 149243  14t::l45 141246 141241 14t249 14t::l50 149251 149252 149253 149260 149261 149264 149265 149266 149267 149271 149272 149213 149275 149279 149210 149211 149212 149214 149217 149219 149290 149:191 149292 149293 149295 149297  149291 149355 14t::l99 149356 149301 149365 149302 149369 149305 149371 149306 149375 149308 149316 149310 149380 149313 149382 149315 149384 149316 149385 149317 149386 149318 149387 149319 149388 149321 149393 149323 149394 149324 149397 149325 149401 149326 149402 149329 149405 149332 149406 149337 149401 149340 149411 149341 149412 149342 149413 149343 149414 149344 149416 149345 149418 149346 149419 149341 149420 149351 149421  1414:24 141425 149426 149428 149431 149436 149431 149444 149447 149449 149450 149452 149456 149462 149464 149466 149471 149477 149411 141412 149413 149414 149415 149416 149418 149490 141491 149491 149502 149503 149504  149506 149509 149513 -149516 149518 149522 149523 149524 149525 149527 149528 149530 149531 149536 149537 149538 149541 149542 149545 149546 149550 149552 149555 149556 149558 149562 149564 149565 149561 149569 149570  149573 149573 149571 149579 149511 149582 149583 149587 149519 149590 149591 149592 149593 149597 149598 149599 149602 149605 149606 149607 149610 149612 149613 149614 149618 149619 149620 149622 149628 149630 14!1632  149634 149635 149631 The following numbers are alternates and will be sold in order upon 149640 availability: -149641 149042 149053 149596 149372 149435149642 149074 149453 149629 149512 149371149645 149196 149505 149262 149474 149646 149419 149270 149070 149176 149647 149158 149115 149304 149043 149648 149207 149574 149586 149379 149649 149259 149433 149403 149470 149650 149652 149654 149679 ,. . $TUDENT UNION BOARD Tickets will be sold in O'Hara Lounge Wed. 9/27 from 6 -7 pm for winners and 7 -7:30 for alternates.  



ACROSS 27 Ruth's sobriquet 44 Love's antithesis 28 Dip bait lightly 45 Outlanders
1 At a distance 31--Sadat 48 Transmitted
5 Davey of baseball fame 32 An 18-wheeler 49 Sesame 10 Hardy heroine 33 Dancer 52 Loren Tamara-­
14 Kimono 55 Stockings 15 Meet the day 34 Connie Stevens 
56 Type of diet 16 Cinders of 37 Long. hard 
57 Hence 

comics JOurney 
58 Foil's relative 

17 Garbo 38 A Kennedy 
59 Lone Ranger's 

20 Polo Grounds 39 Flutter 
sidekick 
hero 

40 A First Lady's 
so Adolescent

21 Carolina rail monogram 
22 Pivot 41 Bit of pastry 23 Goawayl 
DOWN

42 Stitch again 24 Victor of filmdom 
43 Hi-li buff's 1 Jason's ship 25 Wise lawmaker concern 
2 --Collins, Colo. 3 Support in crime ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Soak, as flax 5 Shallow pond 6 Bolivian city 7 Leaning Tower city Sis: Fr. 9 Gurnard 1 o Irritable ~~:;:+,!,-fl~~:,=..f;+.:7+-;-i 11 Actress Lanchester 12 Keyhole 13 Rational 18 Home from the sea H.:..!.+.;.:+;;+;,;...t 19 Links cry ~,;.;..~..::..,r.;~....L.;;..... 23 Negligent 

24 Actress --Lee 32 Emporium Curtis 
33 Silly one 25 Night sound 
35 Do bus1ness 
26 Holder of a certain title 36 Slum 27 Animal 
41 Singer Tennille 28 Search deeply 
42 Spread for the 29 Miller's "--Reagans
From the Bridge" 43 Giggle
30 Early TV star 31 "--Sanctorum" 44 Stickup 
45 Court celebrity 46 Downtown Chi. 47--dixit 48 Glance over 49 Sped 50 "Bus Stop" 
playwright 51 Author Uris 53 B'way sign 54 Allow 







Sports

page 12 Tuesday, September 26, 1989 
Irish volleyball team upsetsSooners at LSU tournament 
BY MOLLY MAHONEY further now by finishing off 
Cougars. drubbing in the fifth game. 
Assistant Sports Editor their flailing victims in the fu­The narrow defeat did not But the Irish didn't come 
ture. dampen Notre Dame's enthusi­home empty-handed, as White 
The Notre Dame volleyball "We wanted to improve in asm though, as the Irish came and freshman Jessica 
team knew it had to happen each game and we did," junior out Saturday afternoon and Fiebelkorn each garnered all­
Sooner or later, and last Amy White said of the team's disposed of Oklahoma in four tournament honors. 
Saturday, it did. tournament play. "But we games, 15-10, 10-15, 15-5, 15-White, who had been the The Irish upset the highly­couldn't keep up the intensity 6. squad's starting setter, was_ touted Sooners of Oklahoma in for five games, so that's the The victory was the impetus switched to right side hitter for four games last Saturday to next step we have to take." for Notre Dame's inspired play the first time since last fall, but grab their second victory of the Notre Dame took on Houston Saturday night against an LSU still managed to tally 22 digs, season and end their seven­last Friday night in Baton squad looking to avenge last as her tenaeious defensive match losing streak. Rouge, LA. and battled the year's four-game loss at the hustle kept the Irish in con­Notre Dame travelled to Cougars in a hard-fought live­hands ofthe Irish, 14-16,15-tention against Oklahoma and 
Tiger country last weekend to game match before losing 15-13, 15-5, 15-10. LSU. play in Louisiana State's Tiger 12, 15-9,9-15,6-15, 14-16. The Tigers stormed to an Middle hitter Fiebelkorn tal­Volleyball Classic and did more The Irish, who have been no­early one-game lead, 15-3, be­lied 44 kills, 28 digs and 16 to­
Amy While 

than just gnash their teeth at torious for their slow starts fore a crowd of 600 boisterous tal blocks in a strong all­the opposition. this season, pounced on the Notre Dame and Houston supporters, but the Irish staynd around performance. 
This time they drew blood by Cougars early in the match, wrestled for control of the in the fight by winning the nPxt "Wn have yet to win a five­taking powerful llouston and taking the first two games be­match in the fifth and deciding two, 15-8, 15-7. game match," White began, 18th-rankPd LSU to live games. fore letting Houston creep back game but despite being poised LSU finished the Irish off in "but we're playing better every 
The Irish arc hoping that they into contention by winning the at match point three times, the the final two games, snnding game and it's just a matt!~r of can take their play one step second and third games. Irish could not finish off the the Irish packing with a 15-2 timP." 
lnterhall football season opens with unexpected wins 
Grace upsets Dillon, BP beats Howard, Carroll wins big 14-3 Lyons downs Badin 
By DAVID DIETEMAN BY RICHARD MATHURIN Sports Writer Sports Writer 
The 19S9 men's lnterhall football season got Sophomore Kristy Alkidas scornd the second 
underway this past Sunday, with several close of hnr two touchdowns in sudden death ovPr­gamns and just as many surprises. Defending time giving BrPen-Phillips a thrilling 12-6 vie­champion Dillon was stunned by Grace, while tory ovnr Howard in Sunday's wonwn's intPrhall 
tlw OfT-Campus Crime, Cavanaugh and Carroll football. came away with convincing victories. thrilling Leahy League fray, Cavanaugh
In a "Our offenSf) n~ally looknd good and our dP­
bPsted thP Habid Bats of Zahm Hall 9-6, thanks 

fense nmlly camt~ on strong," said captain Mary
to a fourth-quarter field goal by Binh Le. With a 

Beth Hoveda, refPrring to her squad's victory.
132 yard rushing performance by fullback Trnnt Boncau, Cavanaugh was able to outlast 

In other action, dnfending champion LPwis'
its talented opponent. Cavanaugh held an early 

defensn interenpted thrnn passns I'll routn to an
6-0 lead. the n~sult of a 35 yard Boneau run and 

8-0 win ovnr Walsh. Captain Jill Beth llayes at­
tailback Marty Kelly's 2 yard touchdown 

tributnd the win to "our rww zonn dof1•nsP insti­
plunge. llownver, it was Zahm that led at 

tuted by dt~f1msivP coordinator John Crown."
halftimn. With thirty seconds lnft in the first half. wide 

"I'm vnry plnasnd with tlw way tlw offensP
recPivnr Scott Langlinas hauled in a 68 yard 

came togntlwr," said captain Liz Nolan on
bomb from quartnrback Greg Striegel, and John 

Lyons' 24-0 shutout vietory ovnr Badin. Junior
PntHwy hit the extra point for a 7-6 bulge at the 

MichPile Hichards starrPd for tlw high-powerPd
half. It looked as if Zahm would dodge the bul­

offense. Not only was tlw ofTnnsn impn~ssivn,
lnt until Cavanaugh linebacker .John Niehaus 

but tht~ defnnsn allownd no first downs. 
picked otT a Striegel pass with 3:00 remaining in thn eontest, returning the interception 25 

In the other two games, prn-snason contender
yards down to the Zahm 20-yard line. Binh Le 

Farley opened with a win over Pasqunrilla Wnst 
then drilled a 20 yard field goal with 1:30 left in 

16-6 and Siegfried slipped by PasqUI~rilla East
the game to ice the victory for Cavanaugh. 

6-0.
Meanwhile, the Off-Campus Crime sped to a 

Games continue this week on Wednesday and
16-0 Parscghian League triumph over 

Sunday, with the feature matehup pitting Breen­Phillips against Lyons. 
see CRIME/ page 1 0 

Pittsburgh the 'City of Champions' for good reason 
They call Pittsburgh the City of Champions for 
Gottfried's troops must survive latn-season contests good reason. With four Super Bowl victories in six against Notre Dame and Miami. years in the late Seventies, the Steelers put the Iron Nevertheless, the Panthers appear to be real eon­
KenTysiac

City back on the map. tenders, and a National Championship is not out of
Sports Writer 

But now that Mean Joe Greenn, Terry Bradshaw, the question. Their annual rendezvous with the and the rnst of the Super Steelers have been put out Fighting Irish is scheduled for October 28 at Notrn to pasture, Chuck Noll's club is probably not even Dame Stadium. Be sure to return from Fall Break in the best football team in Pittsburgh. 
time for the kickoff, beeause as Keith Jaekson The Panthers from the University of Pittsburgh Sophomore tailback Curvin Richards adds a con­would say, "It should be a dandy." might just bP better. They were everybody's pick to sistent breakaway running threat to Pitt's attack. The Steelers, on the other hand, are light years succeed West Virginia as the Beasts of the East this Although he didn't break any long ones for scores away from anything resembling a championship. year until strong-armed, fleet-footed junior quar­against Syracuse, Richards gained 100 yards on 17 Forget Sunday's 27-14 win over a talented terback Darnell Dickerson was declared academi­carries to give Van Pelt the ground support he Minnesota team plagued by internal problems. The cally ineligibln for the semester. needed for his aviation demonstration. Men of Steel are in big trouble. Dickerson is an excellent quartPrback. But his re­Meanwhile, the Panther defense was squeezing the They are so desperate, in fact, that after opening placement, redshirt freshman Alex Van Pelt from juice out of the Orangemen's attack. Syracuse runs the season with losses of 51-0 to Cleveland and 41­San Antonio, Texas, might be even better. Van Pelt an option from the !-formation much like Notre 10 to Cincinnati, quarterback Bubby Brister had to faced his first real test Saturday night against a Dame docs, and the Panthers stopped them cold, resort to drastic measures. So into the T-shirt busi­Syracuse team which was considered the team to swarming and gang-tackling SU ball-carriers left ness he plunged, marketing apparel featuring his bnat in the East. and right. picture and the Steelers' 1989 slogan: "Yes, We Van Pelt unleashed an aerial blitzkrieg which sent They held Syracuse to 19 yards rushing on 31 car­Can." the Orangemen reeling to a 30-23 defeat. lie led his ries and sacked SU quarterback Bill Scharr eight Now if that doesn't strike fear into opponents' team to 16 first quarter points, and at one point times. Whether he was standing in the pocket trying hearts, nothing will. Brister, equipped with a new completed 13 straight passes en route to a 25' for to pass or keeping on the option, Scharr did not three-year, $2.75 million contract, enrtainly hasn't 32, 306 yard performance. have a good day; he rushed 12 times for minus 37 added a whoiP lot to thf' "YPs, We Can" cause. lie Although comparisons to former Panther quar­yards. has passed for a league-low 485 yarrls in three terback Dan Marino are premature, Van Pelt's A murderous schedule could be the only thing games and thrown only two touchdown passes. amazing completion percentage of 76% ranks him which keeps Pittsburgh from charging to the top of To Brister's credit, the offensive linn isn't naetly among the best in college football. And he is by no the polls. Besides this weekend's matchup against means the Panthers' only weapon. #9 West Virginia in Morgantown, coach Mike see PIIT/ page 1 0 




