
VOL. XXIII NO. 46 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Junior Rob Pierce pores over his DART book as he chooses his classes from his room in Alumni Hall. DART has transformed choosing classes from a long ordeal into a fifteen minute endeavor. Call-backs may benecessary as the registration period continues and courses fill and close. 
Tyson to review funds suspension 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 
A group of Student Govern­ment members wrote a letter and an appeal to Vice President of Student Affairs Father David Tyson and met with him this week regarding inconsistencies in the punishment for the re­cent snowball fight, said Stu­dent Body President Matt Bres­lin, at the Student Senate meet­ing Monday. 
Tyson "sounded encouraging" according to Breslin, and will meet with Student Affairs to discuss the matter. 
Breslin said that although it would be unfortunate if such snowball fights were banned altogether, this might be neces­sary to "stop the collective pun­ishment." 
According to Student Body Vice President Dave Kinkopf, Tyson said that few collective punishments have been imposed in the past, and that they fall outside du Lac, which stresses individual violations and their penalties. 
Breslin added that according 
see FUNDS I page 5 
University minimizes revealing AIDS victims 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER AND KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editors 
The University's Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) guidelines state that the University will try to minimize public knowledge both of the AIDS patient's identity and the guidelines themselves. 
"At no time should the occur­rence or identity of AIDS/ARC (AIDS Related Complex)/S+ (Serum positive) individuals be released by the University for public knowledge. However, the existence, but not the content of this document as a guideline for University actions can be confirmed," it states in the document itself. 
Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice president for student ser­vices, said that under the ad­ministration of then University President Father Theodore Hesburgh it was decided that the guidelines should not be made public information. 
University President Father Edward Malloy explained that the general climate on college campuses at the time was quite different. He said that there was some concern about going public with AIDS guidelines in that it might suggest that AIDS was a big problem on the cam­pus. 

Malloy said that, although it took time, now "the climate of fear" surrounding the AIDS virus has abated both on cam­pus and in the world-at-large. 
According to Rocca, the guidelines have recently become available upon request. Guide­lines are available at University Health Services. 
The guidelines are not official University policy and they are 
Dalkon Shield victims win in Court 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The Supreme Court on Monday re­moved the last legal obstacle to carrying out a $2.5 billion set­tlement for victims of the Dalkon Shield birth-control de­vice. 
• Peyote legalization case I page 4 
But compensatory payments may not begin until next spring, and no one could say defini­tively how many of the nearly 100,000 women with active claims will receive substantial payments. 
The justices, over one dissent­ing vote, rejected a challenge by some 650 women to the settle­ment reached out with A.H. Robins Co., manufacturer of the intrauterine device. 
Marketed in the early 1970s, the Dalkon Shield allegedly caused infertility, spontaneous abortions, pelvic inflammation or, in some cases, death. 
Sharon Lutz, a Detroit lawyer representing 18,000 of the women who had sued Robins and who had urged the court to uphold the settlement, said payments might start by late February or early March. 
"It's been a long, long strug­gle for a terrible, terrible tragedy," she said, "but today's great news marks the beginning of the end." 
Baltimore lawyer Michael Pretl, who also represented women who alleged injuries, said payments may be delayed for several months beyond the February target date. 
"1 don't think it's realistic to expect we'll have money flowing 
before next spring," Pretl said, 
predicting that individual 
women with serious injuries 
will receive payments ranging 
from $25,000 to $250,000. 
Pretl said that many thou­
sands of women with active 
claims may get relatively little 
money for varying reasons. For 
example, they may have used 
more than one brand of device, 
he said. 
And most women whu will re­
ceive substantial awards likely 
will have to pay one-third to 
their lawyers. 
Sales of the Dalkon Shield ended in 197 4 but the product was not actually recalled until 1984. A.H. Robins, based in Richmond, Va., created the $2.5 billion trust fund as part of its 1985 reorganization under fed­eral bankruptcy law. 
not mentioned in DuLac. The 
reason for this, according to 
Rocca, "is that AIDS cases 
would be exceptional and not a 
part of everyday life." 
The issue of AIDS does not 
need to be a part of DuLac, 
said Rocca. "DuLac tries to in­
clude only the essentials of 
campus life ... I would hope that AIDS cases would be ex~ep­tionallike serious injury." 
According to Carol Seager, director of University Health Services, guidelines are better than an official policy because they are not as stringent and can be adjusted to suit individ­ual cases. 
"One of the things that con­cerns me is that people are more concerned. with the policy and less with the disease," she said. 
Seager and Rocca said that the University is planning to update the guidelines within a year in light of changing statistics. 
The guidelines specifically address the responsibilities of the AIDS afflicted individual and those of the University. 
According to the guidelines, AIDS/ARC/S+ individuals' re­sponsibilities include the fol­lowing: 
•With full assurance of pri­
see AIDS I page 5 
Irish educational system differs from U.S. schooling 
By KATIE MOORE 
News Staff 
Cultural differences be­tween Irish and American cultures were discussed last night in a panel discussion consisting of five American 
and  Irish  students  from  
Notre  Dame  and  Saint  
Mary's.  

Pat White, professor at Saint Mary's and moderator of the discussion, said the purpose of the panel was to "share a special perspective on Ireland." 
The differences between the Irish and American edu­cation systems was exam­ined. The consensus of the entire panel was that the Irish educational system em­phasized individual student responsibility much more than the American system. 
Regular examinations and homework are not included in the Irish educational pro­gram. Instead, the student's grade is based on one com­prehensive exam at the end of the year. 
Ulick Stafford, a Notre Dame engineering graduate student from Ireland, said it was difficult for him to ad­just to the American educa­tional system because of the regular homework and ex­ams. "I thought I had left 
see IRISH I page 4 
Tuesday, November 7, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
WEATHER
INSIDE COLUMN Tyson ought to explain decision to hold funds Early last week, Vice President for Student Affairs Fa­ther David Tyson suspended more than $20,000 in hall matching funds in .fi response to the snowball fight that Matt Gallagher occurred the evening Executive News of the first snowfall. Tyson announced Editor this suspension in a letter to the hall presidents and rectors, a copy of which was published in The Observer. The suspension of these funds, which dorms were to use for permanent improvements, was a form of punishment for the vandalism that occurred during the snowball fight. This vandalism included the breaking of many dorm win­dows, including those in Tyson's room, as any student who walked down South Quad the next day could see. I do not wish to argue whether or not Tyson was just in suspending these funds; it was clearly within his power to do so as a vice president of the University, and his arguments are understandable. What is not understandable, however, is Tyson's closemouthed attitude in the days following his action. The Observer repeat­edly attempted to contact him to obtain a clearer understanding of his motives for suspending the funds. Tyson (through his secretaries) refused to return calls or to speak to the reporter. Other University officials and student lead­ers were very helpful in trying to explain the Office of Student Affairs' action. The man in charge, however, the man who made the actual decision to suspend the funds, refused to comment. This attitude perplexes me. It seems to me that if Tyson believed his decision was the correct one, he should be willing to defend that decision. If he truly believes suspending $20,000 in matching funds was an appropriate response for the vandalism that occurred during the snowball fight, he should not be hesitant to discuss this decision with the media. Indeed, by not responding, he has cast doubt on the decision. The campus has been in a moderate uproar since the suspension was announced last week. If Tyson is proud of the decision he made, he should be willing to defend it. He ignored his chance to do so last week by refusing to talk to the media. Other University officials are very helpful and willing to talk to the media They realize that, even though this is a private univer­sity, administrators are still accountable for their decisions. It seems to me that Tyson could quell much of the dissent over his decision by ex­plaining it and answering students' ques­tions regarding it. Tyson apparently hopes the controversy over the suspension of matching funds will go away if he ignores it long enough. I sin­cerely hope that students, if they feel the de­cision was wrong, will not let this issue cUe.  


Forecast: Cloudy today with a 40 ~--P-ro-~-u-ro------------------------------------------------~-------------, percentchanceof fi\ ~ ~ m ~ Ex"xj t---j ~ rf\ thundershowers. Warmer
®H \!;.~ ~ ~ t..:....:J "¥ ~ with highs in the middle to L_H_IG_H___L_o_w___s_H_O_IM_ER_s___R_A_IN___r-_s_ro_R_M_S__F,_W_R_R_IE_S__S_N_o_w___I_C_E__S_U_N_N_Y__P_T._C_LO_U_D_Y__C_L_O_U_D_Y__. upper SQs. 
Works of art worth about $17 million wer~ORLD Workers in Dhaka, Bangladesh clashed stolen from the Riviera home of Pablo Picasso's during an anti-government strike called by opposition granddaughter in Cannes, France in what police called parties to demand free elections, and 265 people were one of the biggest art thefts ever. Police estimated the injured, news reports said Monday. Police arrested value of the stolen artwork at $17 million, and said it 115 people during the strike on Sunday. The strike, the included two paintings by Henri Matisse and a bust by 61st this year, also called for an end to President Hus-Auguste Rodin. They said some works by Picasso were sain Muhammad Ershad's 7-year-old government. At stolen, but provided no details. least 150 workers were injured and 30 of them were 
hospitalized. The jute mill is the country's largest and 
employs 200,000 people. 
NATIONAL 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's Staff: 
News AIJ Design VIewpoint Christine Walsh Shannon Roach Molly Schwartz Sarah Voigt Val Poletto Kim Skiles 
Meg Callahan 
Spcxts Systems
Acalnl Mary Garino Gilbert Gomez 
Colleen Cronin David Clar 
Stephanie Snyder 
Production 
Alison Cocks Kathy Gliwa Cheever Griffin 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Barry Sadler, who recorded the No. 1 hit "Ballad of the Green Berets" in 1966, died Sunday at the age of 49 in Murfreesboro, Tennessee. Sadler, who died at the Alvin C. York Medical Center in Murfreesboro, had been hospitalized since he was critically wounded in the head in September 

1988 while training Contra rebels in Guatemala. Sadler, as Staff Sgt. Barry Sadler, co-wrote and recorded "Ballad of the Green Berets" which was the No. 1 song in the country for five weeks in 1966. The song, a narrative tribute to the Special Forces, sold 9 million singles and albums. Sadler had not been singing for at least 10 years. 
An unannounced dinner was held by President Bush at the White House with former President Nixon, who is urging the United States and China to restore good relations despite Beijing's military crackdown on pro-democracy forces. Despite Nixon's appeal, the White House indicated it was not ready to change its approach; which includes suspension of all high-level official contacts. 
The use of tranquilizers such as diazepam, antidepressants such as imipramine, and 17 other similar medications "may be of concern" to nursing mothers, says a policy statement by the American Academy of Pediatrics in Chicago. Diazepam is marketed as Valium and imipramine is marketed as Tofranil, SK-Pramine and lmavate. The effect of such drugs on babies who ingest them through breast milk is unknown, said the academy, an organization of 37,000 pediatricians which is based in suburban Elk Grove Village. 
With the Senate poised to send President Bush a bill forbidding smoking on virtually all domestic airline flights -probably today -cigarette opponents say they are ready to move on to other restrictions. Yet in the same breath, they warn that the well-heeled to­bacco lobby (supported by a $36-billion-a-year indus­try) can't be counted out yet. "They've got lots of money and there are members from tobacco states with important positions to keep legislation from reaching the floor," says Rep. Michael Andrews, D­Texas, who has introduced legislation to boost the fed­eral levy on cigarettes. 
Bear acts, clowns, Santa Claus, banjo. guitar and tuba players, choirs, the Evansville Philharmonic Chamber Players, Ice Cream Sundays and Catfish Fri­days are just a few of the attractions the Evansville Regional Airport has slated for this month and next INDIANA off. Amenities are taking off at the airport where of­ficials hope a carnival-like program and some homey touches will make people realize the airport is a place to visit in its own right, not just fly through. 
OF INTEREST 
The CILA/CSC Mexico Program meet­ing is at 6:30 p.m. in the CSC. This is a three week. summer volunteer program. 
Seniors for "Senior Rap-up:" if you have not heard from your student leader by Friday Nov. 10, please contact the CSC at 239-5293. Groups will meet once in November and once in December and four times next semester. 
Join The Observer 
MARKET UPDATE 
Cloalnga for November 6, 1989 

Volume in shares 
135.48 Million 
NYSE Index 
184.77 {}2.51 
S&P Composite 
{} 5.01
332.61 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,582.17 {}47.34 
Precious Metals Gold '\} $2.80 to $381.50 I oz. 
Silver '\} 1 .2¢ to $5.238 I oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On November 7: 
e In 1916: Republican Jean­nette Rankin of Montana be­came the first weman elected to Congress. e In 1917: Russia's Bolshevik Revolution took place as forces 
led by Vladimir Lenin overthrew the provisional government of Alexander Kerensky. e In 1918: During World War I, an erroneous report from the United Press that an armistice had been signed set off celebra­tions across the country. e In 1973: Congress overrode President Nixon's veto of the War Powers Act, which limits a chief executive's power to wage war without congressional ap­proval. 
Solemn celebration marks Soviet anniversary 
MOSCOW (AP) -As a long winter of discontent ap­proaches, Soviets are preparing for a more sober celebration of the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution that brought a troubled brand of socialism to their land. 
Lenin's portrait in red and white is hanging once again on KGB headquarters at Dzerzhin­sky· Square. Shopworn decora­tions and giant red banners adorn the major streets in preparation for today's 72nd anniversary, when military hardware will clank and rumble through Red Square. 
But it is clear that few from President Mikhail Gorbachev on down are interested in repeat­ing the show of bravado that was standard on Revolution Day just a couple of years ago. 
And there are signs that restive minorities and disgrun­tled workers, in whose name Lenin seized power, can find lit­tle to celebrate. 
• A local chapter of the Peo­ple's Front movement in the Baltic republic Latvia has de­clared the Great October So­cialist Revolution, as it is called here, not a revolution at all, but ··a government coup ... that cut short the process of democrati­zation that started after the February 1917 revolution." 
Bishops urge support in anti-abortion fight 
BALTIMORE (AP) -The Catholic Church is mounting an offensive against legalized abortion in the wake of a Supreme Court ruling allowing states more freedom in setting limits on the practice. 
"Don't forget the baby. That's all the Catholic Church is saying to America," Archbishop John May, president of the Na­tional Conferenee of Catholic Bishops, said Monday in a speech opening the conference's fall meeting. 
Leaders of the 53 million­member chureh are scheduled to vote Tuesday on a policy statement on abortion calling on Catholics to "give urgent at­tention and priority to this is­sue" to counteract efforts by abortion rights advocates gal­vanized by the eourt ruling in the Missouri case. 
Abortion rights advocates said the bishops' new activism was expected in light of the eourt ruling and the recent "baekstepping" by some politi­cians challenged by pro-choice groups. 
"I think this meeting marks their re-emergence as a politi­cal force on this issue," said Frances Kissling, president of Catholics for a Free Choice. "They're ready to go." 
At the opening session of the four-day meeting, representa­tives of the U.S. church and the Vatican celebrated the bicen­tennial of the U.S. hierarchy by noting how the church was shapnd by the American princi­ples of religious liberty and democracy. The Rev. John Car­
roll was appointed the first 
U.S. bishop on Nov. 6, 1789 
Cardinal Agostino Casaroli, who is Vatican secretary of state and papal legate to the bieentennial, warned the bish­ops not to be discouraged from Pntering into public policy de­bates. 
"The religious freedom so forcibly affirmed by your founding fathers was not in­tended to exclude religion from society, from public life and public morality. That would truly be freedom in reverse," C:asaroli said. 
In his speech, May said Americans need to hear the church's voice on issues rang­ing from the Middle East to poverty, but abortion is the is­sue "where clear-cut moral principle stands tall above all else." 
In a letter to the bishops, Pope John Paul II said Catholics have played a "significant role in upholding the moral princi­ples of justice, freedom, and re­spect for human dignity." 
The Pope, however, never di­rectly addressed the abortion issue, but instead asked the bishops to uphold "the dignity and rights of the human person from conception to natural death." 
Comparing abortion to drop­ping a child in the Baltimore Harbor, May said there is no difference between a child a few months after birth and a child in the womb. 
Communist Party officials in the Latvian capital of Riga said efforts to belittle the revolution could destabilize the republic, which along with neighbors Lithuania and Estonia is push­ing fast and hard for auton­omy. 
•Workers building a new subway in the Ural Mountains industrial center of Sverdlovsk rejected the city government's plans to organize brigades of shock workers to finish the first tunnel by the holiday. Such gargantuan efforts have been a part of Soviet life for decades. But this time the newspaper Izvestia said "the workers did not want to become a part of another whitewash" and the city had to back down. The new completion date is in the third quarter of 1990. 
• The Kuznets Basin of Si­beria has almost ground to a halt due to a lack of gasoline. Shops in the coal-mining area that in July erupted in strikes over poor living and working conditions are nearly empty and there isn't enough gas for plows to remove the first snow from the streets, Tass said. A shipment of fuel was dis­patched from Irkutsk 730 miles to the east, but on Siberia's roads it will take five days to 
get there. It should arrive Tuesday. 
Cold rain and heavy clouds pressed down on Moscow in the days preceding the holiday, and even the prospect of four days in a row off from work didn't appear to help the mood. ·sovi­ets worked Saturday instead of Monday, with Sunday through Wednesday off. 
This year, a crumbling distri­bution system and spasmodic coal strikes are making sup­plies of food, consumer goods, and even heat and electricity a worry. 

Computing crunch 
The computing center in the basement of LaFortune is crowded with students who are feeling the pressures of this shorter half of the academic semester. Many students realize that after Thanksgiving break arrives, finals are not far behind. 
University receives collections for libraries 
Special to the Observer 
Six University of Notre Dame Library collections have been dedicated. They are: 
•The 
Anthony J.F. O'Reilly Collection in Irish History and Society, endowed by the H.J. Heinz Co. Foundation in honor of the company's presidents, chairman and chief executive officer. 

•The 
Margaret Conway Col­lection in Medieval Studies, 


given by her son, Robert Con­way, a Notre Dame alumnus and member of the advisory council of the University's Col­lege of Arts and Letters. 
•The 
Alice Wolohan Hohmann Collection in the Arts, estab­lished in her memory by mem­

•The 
Jackoboice Family Col­lection in Journalism, endowed by John Jackoboice, vice presi-


bers of her family,  many  of  
whom  are  alumni  of  Notre  
Dame.  

JACC COURT RESERVATIONS IMPORTANT 
THE FOLLOWING PROCEDURES WILL BE USED IN ACCEPTING BASKETBALL & VOLLEYBALLCOURT RESERVATIONS FOR THE JACC: 
1. 
Requests must be submitted on the "Court Reservation Form" available at NVA. 

2. 
Requests will be accepted starting at 9:00am Novembe; 1. 

3. 
Requests will not be accepted after 5:00pm November 15. 

4. 
Failure to use allotted time on two occasions will lead to cancellation of remaining schedule. 

5. 
All reservations must start and end on the hour assigned. 

6. 
After November 20, weekly reservations may be allowed if time is available. 

7. 
Reservation requests must be submitted to the Non-Varsity Athletics office. 


NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
dent of Monarch Hydraulics Inc. in Grand Rapids, Mich., and a Notre Dame alumnus. 
•The 
Fort Howard Corp. Col­lection in Western European History, given by the paper manufacturer of Green Bay, Wis. 

•The 
Miles Foundation Col­lection in Science, established by the foundation of Miles Lab­oratories Inc. of Elkhart. 


Also dedicated in the Law School Library are: 
•The 
Robert J. Welsh Family Collection in Human and Civil Rights, established by the fam­ily of an alumnus who sits on the Law School Advisory Coun­cil. 

•The 
continuing support of Law School library development by the John P. Murphy Trust. Murphy was a 1912 graduate of Notre Dame's Law School who practiced law in Cleveland and was president of one of the city's leading department stores. In 1967, when Notre · Dame came under lay leader­ship, he was elected to the Uni­versity's board of trustees. 

•The 
underwriting of major computing resources for Law School teaching and research by the Robert W. Cox family. Cox, a Chicagoan, holds a bachelor's and law degree from Notre Dame and is a member of the Law School Advisory Council. 

•The 
underwriting of the Law School's video-audio system for training in advocacy, counseling and professional responsibility by the Thomas H. Corson family. Corson is chairman and chief executive officer of Coachman Industries in Elkhart and is a member of the Law School Advisory Council. 




Tuesday, November 7, 1989page 4 The Observer 
Native Americans plead case for legalizing peyote 
WASHINGTON (APJ -The Supreme case involving the use of marijuana. 
Coutt was told Monday that establish­When asked by Justice Antonin Scalia 
ing a constitutional right to take peyote if states may ban snake handling as a 
in religious ceremonies would allow use religious practice, Dorsay said, "I don't 
of a dangerous hallucinogenic drug and think there's a dispute that rattlesnakes 
eould l.ead to broader drug use. ean cause harm. Peyote misuse is dan­
"It ean eause psychotic reactions in a gerous." not its controlled use in reli­small numbnr of users," Oregon Attor­gious ceremonies. ney General David Frohnmayer said about peyote. "It is very risky." The justices heard 60 minutes of ar­
However, Craig Dorsay argued that guments and are expected to announce the survival of the Native Ameriean a ruling by July. After Monday's eourt Chureh would be threatened if Oregon session, members of the Native Ameri­ortieials are allowed to deny unemploy­can Church conducted a religious cere­ment eompensation to two men fired mony on the grounds of the Capitol for using peyote at religious cere­across the street from the court. monies. 
Dorsay, who represents the two fired Peyote was not part of the ceremony. workers, said small amounts of peyote Leaders burned leaves and bits of cedar had been used in religious ceremonies and prayed for the future of the church. for hundreds of years with practically no ~~vidence of harm. Alcohol generally The case is before the nation's highest is more dangerous to Indians, he said. court for the second time. The justices 
Frohnmayer said that if the drug is last year sent it back to the Oregon permittnd in ehureh eeremonies, "it will Supreme Court to determine whether bt~ a wedge" for drug use by other reli­the religious use of peyote was a crime gious groups. citing a pending state in that state. 
because it is here that the art of conver­sation is mastered."
Irish 
The American students who studied in 
continued from page 1 
Ireland commented on their attempts to that behind in high school," Stafford adjust to the Irish culture. Jim stated. McCarthy, a Notre Dame senior who 
Stafford also indicated there is a studied in Ireland two years ago stated: negative aspect to this method of "You're a foreigner there and that's the education. He stated that there is at hardest thing to realize at first." least a 20 to 30 percent failure rate in In explaining what advantages the 
most classes and sometimes the failure Ireland program has to offer over other rate went as high as 50 percent. abroad programs Scherer said, "The 
Differences between the Irish and structure of the Ireland prcgram is American social lives were also organized to benefit all opportunities to discussed at length. The panel agreed become friends with the Irish." 
AP Photo
the Irish pubs are very different from McCarthy discussed what factors 
American bars. Gretchen Scherer, a added to his interest in the Ireland The case of Alfred Smith, a Klamath Indian who maintains his ancient religious beliefs 
junior at Saint Mary's who studied in program. "Aside from my heritage, the in the use of illegal peyote should be protected by the U.S. Constitution, goes before Ireland last year said, "Pubs are an culture has a magnetism that I didn't the nation's highest court on Monday. essential structure in the Irish society find in other programs." 
Calllpus Ministry and You 

(?MPUS 
---Th--is__ __ __ _____ __ ~~~~Sll{>l
w_e.ek--is--Pe•a•c-em--ak--in•g•W--e-ek a_t_lli_e_Un_iv•e·~-icy fo•r•S•oc--ia•l•R•e•s•po•n•s•ib•l•l•lcy--(P•S•R•)•-·lli•e•U·.·S·.-af•f•il•ia-te o_f____________________________________________ ------­
of Notre Dame. The following reflections well point llie International Physicians for llie Prevention of out llie responsibilicy we have to take llie initiative Nuclear War (IPPNW). That group won llie Nobel for bringing peace and seeking out areas where it is Peace Prize in 1985. lacking. The reflections are by Frank Castillo, MD, a Frank recently returned from a meeting of llie 1981 gradu.tte of llie College of Arts and Letters. Frank International sociecy in Japan, which included some is currently a graduate student in llie Notre Dame time in belli Hiroshima and Nagasaki. What follows Institute of Peace Studies and a member of Physicians are some of his llioughts for llils week: 
PILGRIMAGE FOR PEACE 
"To remember Hiroshima is to rommit oneself to 
the future.N Bishop Thomas J. Gumbleton-auxiliary 
Bishop of Detroit, President of Pax Christis USA, and 
a visiting fellow at Notre Dame's Institute for 
lntemation.al Peace Studies--said these words last 
month while spaldng on a colloquium entitled 
"Confronting the Moral and Ethical Dilemmas of the 
Bomb.N It was wry appropriate to have had Bishop Gumbldon be part of tNt four-person panel, because he 
is one of the principle authon of the Pastoral Letter on 
War and Peace published by the National Council of 
Catholic Bishops in 1983. The location of the 
colloquium was also very appropriate, for it took place 
in Hiroshima, Japan as part of the 9th World Congress 
of the International Physicians for the Prevention of 
Nuclear War, an organization willi a strong Notre 
Dame component. 
The Congress was opened in Hiroshima on October 
7 and brought to a close in Nagasaki on October 12, 
Hiroshim.t provides witness that llie unthinkable can 
happen. Nagasaki provides witness that the 
unthinkable can be repeated. 
My pilgrimage to Hiroshima and Nagasaki took me to their peace parks and hypocenter monuments. (The hypocenter is the area of land which was directly under the above-ground detonations on Fat Man and Little Boy, the nick-names given to the two atomic bombs which were dropped.) In the Nagasaki Peace Museum, I learned that the target in Nagasaki had been the Mitsubishi arms plant. The hypocenter, however, ended up 4 kilomete~ off the mark, which was over a hospital, a grade school, and the largest Rom.tn Catholic church-in fact, llie largest center of Christianicy-in the Orient at that time. Although I found all the images of the death and destruction which the two bomos wrought profoundly disturbing, it was not until I was brought face-to-face with the unholy, unthinkable horror of technological perversicy and madness in a context which I could call my own­Christitanity-that the very core of my own being was ripped open. Paradoxically, it was nat until I experienced that searing pain of solidarity and embraced it as part of the impetus behind my involvement in the peace movement that I was able to truly find peace in the international peace park there in Nagasaki. 
The fi~t serious thoughts I ever had about doing 
something about the threat of nuclear war were when 
I was here at Notre Dame as an undergraduate. I had been particularly impressed with an essay written by Fr. Bill Toohey-the director of Campus Ministry at that time-in his book Life After Birth. That impresssion was galvanized by Fr. Ted Hesburgh's comments that the threat of nuclear war was the single most dangerous threat to our world in 1981. I wanted to do something, but did not know what. 
In 1983, I enrolled in medical school at the Universicy of Wisconsin-Madison. Although the goal of attending medical school had been one conceived long before I ever started on a transcending spiritual journey of faith, the latter is what provided the vision and courage for me to enter into the world of medicine and walk amid the shadows of the valley of life and death. This strong spiritual component and faith commitment to work in the health-care profession, as well as the appreciation of the threat to global health posed by nuclear arms, left me very impressionable at that time, which just happened to be soon after the release of The Challenge of Peace: God's Promise and Our Response, the Pastoral Letter on War and Peace which Bishop Gumbleton co-authored. 
A summary version of the messagl! of the Pastoral Letter was given from the pulpit at the Universicy Catholic Center at the Universicy of Wisconsin­Madison. Much reflective and critical conversation arose among my peers following the overview at Mass. The discussions reinforced the thoughts that I had had as an undergraduate regarding the threat of nuclear war. I then started asking myself in what ways I could make the Challenge of Peace my own personal challenge since, as the Pastoral Letter states, "peacemaking is not an optional commitment. It is a requirement of our faith. We are called to be peacemakers, not by some movement of llie moment, but by our Lord Jesus" (#333). 
These words are llie impetus behind my pilgrimage and involvement in the peace movement. They have taken me to the Soviet Union, Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, and now to Japan in my work with IPPNW. More important than the geographic journey, my pilgrimage for peace has led me down a spiritual road which has opened my mind and heart to who and 
what I had previously thought different or foreign. The more I learn from my journey, though, the more I realize the truth in the tautologous statement: it is the process of being peacemakers which will in itself bring us peace. 
1\ N 
.,}..\ t/t 1-\ • A GA 
~, l"f
C:, 8
Q \ p p N lA 1 4.(..
A. r'V • ~ 
1
'· / _. 
~ ~ 

Upcoming Events 
This Week is Peacemaking Week. 
Wednesday, November 8  "Owls and Doves: The Two Cultures Confront Nuclear Arms Control. " Room 101 Law School.  
Saturday, November 11  Eucharist, 5:00pm at Stepan Center. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. presider. Faculty String Trio.  
Sunday, November 12  Eucharist, 10:00 am at Stepan Center. Most Rev. John D'Arcy, presider. Notre Dame Liturgical Choir, Liturgical Brass.  
Eucharist, 11:45 am at Stepan Center. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. presider. Notre Dame Folk Choir.  
Marriage Enrichment Program, Fatima Retreat House. 2-4 pm.  
Film: "Peace Peeping Up: Ending Nicaragua's Other War." Followed by commentary. Center for Social Concerns. 4pm.  
Meeting of Orthodox Christian Students.  

Badin CM Conference Room. Bpm. Notre Dame Encounter with Christ is November 17-19. 
Brought to you weekly by the Office of Campus Ministry and The Observer 

The Greenhouse Effect 
1. Carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and chloroflurocarbon gases from automobiles, 
NOORDWIJK, Netherlands (AP) -The United States and Japan on Monday refused to agree to drastic measures to curb the warming of Earth's atmosphere, which experts fear could have catastrophic conse­quences. 
At a 68-nation conference on the "greenhouse effect," both nations said they would not en­dorse a commitment to stabilize emissions of carbon dioxide, a major cause of the atmospheric warm-up, by the year 2000. 
"We believe in a reduction of carbon dioxide." said William Reilly, head of the U.S. Envi­ronmental Protection Agency. "But we're not prepared to say by what time and by what level." 
Conference sources said Great Britain and the Soviet Union also had strong reserva­tions about the wording of the final communique, expected to be published Tuesday. 
The Dutch, hosts of the two­day ministerial meeting, had hoped to align the participating nations unanimously behind a commitment to stabilize emis­sions by the end of the century, and to begin reducing them from 2005 onward. 
Most nations, among them France, West Germany, and 
When the Great American Dream isn't Great Enough 
Have you considered? 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
A one-year program located at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame for college graduates who are seriously interested in exploring a vocation as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
For information: 
Fr. John Co111ley, CSC Vocation Director 
Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ADWQRKS
239·6385 
Canada, were willing to go along, according to the sources, who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. 
Mostafa Tolba, the executive director of the United Nations Environmental Program, which sponsored the Noordwijk meet­ing, said he expected "most in­dustrialized nations to say that they believe stabilization can be achieved by the year 2000." 
But Reilly said the Dutch pro­posals "go too far" and should wait for the outcome studies by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a forum trying to find solutions to the green­house effect. The forum has scheduled a plenary meeting for February in Washington. 
The attitude of the United States, Japan, Britain and the Soviet Union drew criticism from other participants and environmentalists. 
Klaus Toepfer, the West German Environment Minister, said failure to reach agreement on stabilizing carbon dioxide emissions would be "a very bad sign to the world outside." 
Emissions of carbon dioxide, chlorofluorocarbons, methane, and nitrous oxides are believed by some experts to have caused a 1 1/2-degree rise in the aver­age global temperature. 
~~--..--------~--------~----~ ~~-------------------.----------.r~-----------­
Tuesday, November 7, 1989 page 5
The Observer 
Frosh council prepares for change 
By MONICA YANT News Writer 
Lynn Ramsey was elected chairperson of Freshman Class Council (FCC) last week. Ram­sey is not only the first black female to be named to the council, but also the first to hold its highest position, said Emil Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. 
Ramsey said that her race may be advantageous in "bringing (racial) groups to­gether." 
More importantly, Ramsey said, is the role of the FCC. "We're a team. We're here to represent the freshman class in student government." 
The FCC is a reorganized version of the Freshman Advi­sory Council (FAC), which Hof­man instituted in 1971 when he became dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. 
A service project working 
AIDS 
continued from page 1 
vacy and confidentiality and in order to provide proper educa­tion and medical care, students should inform University Health Services if they have AIDS, ARC or a serum positive test. 
•The AIDS/ARC/S+ individ­ual(s) must be well educated as to the nature of the disease and means of transmission and must take appropriate action to modify behavior so as to re­duce the risk of transmission. 
•The AIDS/ARC/S+ individual 
(s) 
should have regular medical examinations either by a Uni­versity Physician or specialist of choice who will verify continuity of care. 

•The AIDS/ARC/S+ individual 

(s) 
must have clear and confi­dential access to counseling and support services. 


•Upon request of the AIDS/ARC/S+ positive student (s), the Coordinator of Disabled 
Funds 
continued from page 1 
to Tyson, du Lac is actually a 
set of guidelines rather than a 
definite plan for punishment. 
Megan Hanley, co-chair of the Hall Presidents Council, said that 14 of the 26 residence halls had ordered or purchased items with their matched funds prior to their suspension. She estimated that $12,000 of the allotted funds had been spent. 
Total student ticket sales for 
this season's basketball games 
amounted to about $2,000, a 
significant decrease from pre­
vious years' sales, said Athletic 
Department representative 
Bubba Cunningham. 
Cunningham said that in 1986 
and 1987 the ".mount was 
about $4,200. He said that if 
plllllllllil!IIIIRIIII!illillllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllll•llliilll•••••••••••lwas presented to Father Tysonand Security Director Rex Rakow, who were both in favor of it, Breslin said. The information desk on the first floor of LaFortune has been approved as the head­quarters for the service, and Keenan Hall will be donating a golf cart, Breslin said. A group of about six students will be meeting on Thursday to discuss the budget process for the project. It is hoped that the service will begin next semester. Newly elected freshman class officers are: Lynn Ramsay, Freshman Class Council Presi­dent; Scott Boehnen, Co-chair; Jessica Raniszeski, Secretary;lhlllliiillliiii!IIIIBEliiiiiiiiiiiMMB•••••••••••••••Iand Joe Wilson, Treasurer. 
sales in future years continue basketball games is that stand­to be under $3,000, the Athletic ing in the student section, Sec­Department might have to open tion 2, often blocks the view of initial ticket sales to the gen-the audience in Section 1, which eral public. contains the best seats in the 
Cunningham asked for input gym. If standing continues, he from Student Government said, some action may be taken members, who suggested that by the Athletic Department. the-lack of sales might be due Another problem that has in­to the great time commitment creased in frequency, Cunning­of the 12-game package, as ham said, is the sale of student well as the cost of tickets, the tickets to adults. Student tick­poor timing of this year's sales, ets are invalid for persons and the lack of publicity for the without student identification. basketball season. If the basketball team pro-
A split package through gresses to a bowl game, stu­which students would be able to dents will have first priority buy tickets to a pre-selected, toward tickets, Cunningham lesser number of games, was said. Tickets will be purchased suggested. Cunningham said he here (at Notre Dame). and would recommend the split picked up at the location of the package to the Athletic De-game, he said. partment. The escort service proposal, 
According to Cunningham, a drawn up by junior Gina Ma­problem at many Notre Dame hony and Student Government, 
factories. etc., are released into the air. Because the heavier than air gases do not dissipate. a barrier surrounding the earth is formed. 
2. Sunlight is able to pass through the barrier and warm the earth, but the resulting heat is unable to escape back into space. 
with troubled youth, a conces­sion stand for the SMU game, and class social outings are on the FCC's agenda, said Ramsey. 
The FCC arose from a divi­sion of the FAC, whose duties ranged from planning social and service activities to advis­ing the University's faculty committee on the freshman curriculum, said Hofman. 
From the FAC came two sep­arate organizations, the Freshman Class Council, a so­cial and legislative body, and the Freshman Academic Advi­sory Council, concerned solely with academic affairs. 
The split occurred at Hof­man's suggestion, he said, be­cause the FAC was not provid­ing an accurate distribution of "academic interest or perfor­mance" to give necessary assis­tance in curriculum planning. 
"We're starting fresh," said Ramsey of the group's reorga­nization. She said that FCC is the "voice" that is devoted to the causes of the members of the freshman class. 
The members of FAAC will, according to Hofman, consti­tute a more diversified repre­sentation and help the adminis~ tration "more wisely handle the 
academic  matters"  of  the  
freshman class.  
Members  were  chosen  by  

freshman academic advisors based on their academic inten­tions and· performance. 
The FCC consists of a repre­sentative from each hall, se­lected by rectors working with hall presidents and the previous year's representative, Hofman said. 
Elections for officers took place within the FCC. 
Scott Boehnen of St. Ed­ward's was elected co-chairper­son, Jessica Raniszeski of Breen-Philips was chosen as secretary, and Joe Wilson from Grace was named treasurer. 
Student will assist in whatever adjustments to the academic and residential routine are ben­eficial/warranted. 
•Upon request of AIDS/ARC/S+ staff members, the Manager of Employee Rela­tions will assist in whatever adjustment to the work routine are beneficial/warranted. 
"The University of Notre Dame must act and react to the AIDS epidemic in a responsible and objective manner by mak­ing decisions that take into consideration the needs and rights of both the AIDS/ARC/S+ individual (s) and the University community," states the guide­lines. 
The University's responsibili­ties include the following: 
•Basing actions/decisions on the medical information avail­able from the Center for Dis­ease Control and the Public Health Service. At no time should the University take ac­tion in response to the panic which seems to accompany this disease. 
•Providing 
ongoing education which emphasizing behavior that reduces the spread of AIDS. 

•Emphasizing 
the responsibil­ity of the individual, not the University, in reducing the spread of this disease. It is the behavior of the individual, not the policies or facilities or ac­tions of the University, that causes the disease to be spread. 

•Making 
every attempt to re­spect the confidential rights of the AIDS/ARC/S+ individual (s). 


In regards to the guidelines' stated procedures in handling AIDS individuals, Seager said, "We are satisfied with what we have right now." 
Seager said she could not CQmment on whether there are individuals in the Notre Dame community who have AIDS, ARC or who have tested S+. 
Finally, the guidelines include 
a glossary of terms related to 
the virus and a question/answer 
section. 
3 The barrier results in a "Greenhouse effect," 
• trapping heat around the earth's surface. The resulting warming is predicted to cause major changes in global climate patterns, such as heat waves and droughts. 
AP/Martha P. Hernandez 
Nations voice reservations on environmental issues 
r------------------.~--~--~----~-------------------~-­
The Observer Tuesday, November 7, 1989
page 6 
Martyrs of civil rights movement remembered 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) ­
A generation after Medgar Ev­
ers and Martin Luther King Jr. 
were killed. the nation's first 
memorial to martyrs of the civil 
rights movement was dedicated 
Sunday as relatives expressed 
hope that young people will 
carry on the spirit of that tur­
bulent era. 
Several people cried as they touched the cool water that flows across a circular black granite slab engraved with im­portant events of the era, in­cluding the names of 40 people who died in the struggle for ra­cial equality. 
The memorial is of the same 
material and by the same archi­
tect as the Vietnam Veterans 
Memorial in Washington. 
"I hope this will vitalize the struggle, keep it fresh in the minds ... for the youth," said Ollie Gordon, a Chicago schoolteacher whose cousin, 14-year-old Emmett Till, was shot to death in 1955 by whites angered that he had spoken to a white woman. 
"I talk about Martin Luther King and ask why we celebrate his birthday, and many children don't know," Ms. Gordon said. 
More than 400 law enforce­ment officers provided security for the dedication ceremony, which was held without inci­dent. A Klu Klux Klansman from Georgia tried to get a po­lice permit to lead a demon­stration. but he was blocked by the city and a federal judge. 
Speakers at the ceremony in­eluded Hosa Parks. whose re­fusal to give up her seat to a 

APPhoto A hand reaches out to touch the names of fallen civil rights figures that are carved on the surface of the Civil Rights Memorial. The memorial, designed by Maya Lin, features a black granite wall and table with water 
flowing across its surfaces. The memorial will be dedicated Sunday. 
white man sparked the Mont-which ended with thousands gomery bus boycott of 1955-56, joining hands to sing "We Shall and relatives of those honored Overcome." on the monument, including "It's a very moving experi-Martin Luther King Ill. ence," said Myrlie Evers of Los 
"The struggle is not over Angeles, whose husband, yet," the son of the civil rights Medgar, was the highest-rank­leader told a crowd estimated ing NAACP officer in Mississippi by police at between 5,000 and when he was assassinated in 6,000. "Something is wrong in 1963. "It says to me that a nation that doesn't set its there's hope." priorities to take care of all its Julian Bond, the first black people." state lawmaker in Georgia, said 
Helatives viewed the monu-it was important to remember ment before the dedication others besides King and Evers 
Anti-smuggling aircraft 'deficient' 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The lirst plane in a Customs Service radar fleet has been plagued by problems that seriously com­promise its ability to find and track drug-smuggling aircraft, according to agency documents. 
One Coast Guard officer who went along on an early mission summed up: "A lot of 'Gee Whiz' gadgets and color dis­plays -but a lot of the basic requirements for useful detec­tion and tracking are absent." 
Deficiencies have included an unreliable computer system that has trouble locating and tracking smugglers; faulty on­board communications for the crew, and a problem with a spinning, metal radar dome, 
according to the documents, 
most of them written by crew 
members. 
Some initial reports critical of the performance of the first, $27 million P-3 airborne early warning (AEW) aircraft were ordered rewritten by an agency supervisor to stress success and not failures, according to the documents and Customs sources. 
Some of the same problems have afflicted a second P-3 de­livered last April at a cost of $30.6 million, according to the documents and sources. Congress has approved $35 million for a third P-3. All the planes are based at Customs' Surveillance Support Center at Corpus Christi, Texas. 
The P-3 has been used for years to detect enemy sub­marines, but the new electron­ics have been custom designed for the drug war. 
Officials at the Customs Ser­vice and the manufacturer, Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Co.. but both say the plane works well overall, though they concede some problems exist. 
"It works and it works great," said Peter Kendig, act­ing director of the Surveillance Support Center. lie said there are a "few glitehes" in the sys­tem that tracks the speed and course of potential targets. 
DART courses that are closed as of Nov. 6 
0572  1508  5308  0805  2486  2589  3163  0010  0100  5149  0399  5474  
5040  5176  5309  5549  2488  2645  5314  0030  0051  0229  0401  5475  
0749  5299  1587  5144  2492  2797  3257  0031  5162  5284  0402  1249  
0752  5303  5011  1834  2494  2801  5105  0032  5145  5282  0472  1254  
0989  5304  5014  2370  2496  5311  3269  0083  5143  0380  0486  5503  
0999  5305  1619  5375  5340  3145  3273  0091  5146  0389  5035  5235  
5326  5307  3219  2377  2579  3148  3274  0092  0166  0397  5038  1397  
5375  1248  


r;-----·-----­---:--~ 
Tianjin, China 1 
University 
I 
of Notre Ddmt' INFORMATION MEETING I 
with Dr. Isabel Charles . Foreign Study Director of Foreign Study Programs I Program I 
Tuesday, November 7, 1989 4:30P.M. Room II 5 O'Shaughnessy 
who died in the struggle. 
"Without degradation Dr. King, this was a lot more than a Martin Luther King move­ment," he said. "Many were or­dinary. everyday people who rose above their ordinariness to make a difference." 
The $700,000 monument also honors James Chaney, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schw­erner, who were shot to death during the 1964 Freedom Summer and whose slayings in­spired the recent movie "Mississippi Burning." 
"Poetry in granite" was how Goodman's mother, Carolyn Goodman of New York City, de­scribed the memorial designed by Maya Lin. 
"Nobody who sees it cannot feel that it's a moving, moving piece of art," Ms. Goodman said. "It brings that period so vividly alive that you can almost relive it." 
The monument is in front of the Southern Poverty Law Cen­ter, a few blocks from the Al­abama Capitol. where Jefferson Davis took the oath of oflice as president of the Confederacy in 1861, and near the Baptist church where King launched the Montgomery bus boycott in 1955. 
The 9-foot-high granite wall is inscribed with words from the Bible that King chose for his first speech during the bus boycott: "Until justice rolls down like water and righteous­ness like a mighty stream." 
King, a county commissioner in Atlanta, said he thought his father's words were "very ap­propriate." 
He said the memorial focuses 
attention on inequalities that still exist and will serve as a hands-on history lesson for young people. 
"Perhaps they can get an un­derstanding of why people lost their lives," King said. 
Also at the ceremony was his father's top lieutenant, the Hev. Ralph David Abernathy, who has been scorned by many black leaders because of his re­cent book. 
Indiana weighs benefits of new Hoosier Lottery 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A year after Indiana repealed its ban on lotteries, some Hoosier political leaders are beginning to wonder if the state has gone too far too fast to embrace gambling. 
A state that banned lotter­ies for 137 years now has the state-sanctioned instant winner game and more so­phisticated numbers games on the way. Pari-mutuel wa­gering on horse races has been legalized, and legisla­tion to permit casino gam­bling in Gary, allow off-track betting parlors and autho­rize pari-mutuel greyhound racing will be introduced in 1990. 
The rapid proliferation of gambling proposals worries some leaders on both sides of the political aisle. 

"There's nothing wrong with a vigorous public de­bate, but to go much beyond where we are right now would trouble me in terms of public policy." said Demo­cratic Gov. Evan Bayh. 
"Let's go down the chf>.Ck­list: casino gambling. dog racing. betting parlors. That's getting us into signif­icantly different territory than where we currently are," said Bay h. "There's nothing wrong with a healthy debate in the Legisla­ture, but my own feeling is we ought to stay where we arc." 
SOPHOMORES! 
Be a part of Junior Parents Weekend this year. 
Junior Parents Weekend Sophomore Committee Chairperson WANTED! 
Pick up applications in Student Activites Office 3rd Floor LaFortune 
Due by Friday, November 10 

Viewpoint
Tuesday, November 7, 1989 
p_:ge 7 

Using printed media to eradicate ignorance 
Tonight the Ideas and Issues Does the absence of an affili­their passions. The purpose of critically or assess objectively, Committee of the Student Union Terry Landrigan ated journalism school, even a this article, and of tonight's or question and answer Board is sponsoring a panel journalism department, make discussion, is neither to induce truthfully, then we have discussion entitled "What is the Ideas and Issues the consistent production of a diatribe against the censor­forgotten our mission as a uni­Role of the Printed Media at quality products an impossible ship of the administration nor versity, which is to allow young Notre Dame?" Panelists include regarded institutions. The task? If so, what kind of job do the quality of the printed media minds to learn, to choose and editorial staff from The number of international daily the respective news and intel­nor the ignorance and apathy to develop. With this in mind, I Observer, Scholastie, Dialogue newspapers received at the lectual sources do with the of the student body. Rather, it expect to see many of you at and Common Sense, as well as flesburgh Library is insufficient small pool of talented contribu­is our job to ask hard questions the panel discussion tonight in a representative from the for serious study. In the wake tors from which they must fill and seek definitive answers Room 122 Hayes Healy spon­Student Activities Office and a of the state crackdown of the their staffs? Does the lack of about controversial issues that sored by SUB's Ideas and faculty member from the pro-democracy movement this cohesion between classroom we at Ideas and Issues have not Issues Committee. 
American Studies Department. summer in Beijing, I would ven­work and hands-on experience seen addressed. Terry Landrigan is a senior 
We at Ideas and Issues hope ture to guess that few Notre make the training of would-be We would like to evaluate the government major and a mem­to objectively assess the Dame students know that the journalists too formidable a priorities of all parties involved, ber of the Ideas and Issues strengths and weaknesses of flesburgh Library stopped re-task? students and administration Committee of the Student Union the campus media here at -ceiving the daily edition of the The issue of censorship at alike. For if we cannot analyze Board. 
Notre Dame. Using the recently Beijing Times, the city's main Notre Dame is rarely, if ever, 
released Student Government daily, over a year ago because addressed, and I do not wish to 
LETTERS
Heport to the Board of it was deemed too expensive. do so irresponsibly or mali­Trustees on Campus Media as a Given these facts, I would not ciously. I believe it to be obli­ROTC program provides practical,
base from which to initiate be surprised if many Notre gatory and necessary, however, 
discussion, the panel hopes to Dame students consider The to question the motives of an moral training for future leaders confront three issues relevant Observer as their only source administration that chooses to Dear Editor: We live in a society that, to to the vitality and value of for news and intellectual sub­suppress certain events which This letter is in response to our communal detriment, feels 
Notre Dame's printed media: jects. If this is the case, we may adversely affect the lives of Kurt Mills' Viewpoint article it must be armed. The United the isolation of the Notre Dame cannot underestimate the im­Notre Dame students. For ex­(The Observer, Oct. 31) on the States armed forces have ex­community, the apathy of the portance of our campus media ample, the number of campus ROTC program at Notre Dame. isted for a long time and most student body and the sources but 'must' seek whole­rapes and attacks that are ac­When I came to the Univer­likely will continue to do so. In censorship of salient issues. heartedly to improve them. tually reported to the Notre sity, I was a staunch conserva­light of this fact, I feel the Uni­By many accounts, the Notre Judging by the findings of the Dame community as a whole, I tive. I advocated a strong de­versity has to welcome the Dame community is an isolated Student Government's Board of believe, pales in comparison to fense and never gave the ROTC ROTC programs to the campus. one, replete with a great deal of Trustees Report on student at­the actual number of such at­presence a second thought. The armed forces will always ignorance about world, even titudes toward the campus tacks that occur. After I heard Bishop Gumbleton need young officers to lead 
national, events of significance. media, campus apathy is a bar­I realize that victims are speak on the National Confer­them and shape their futures; it This could be a microcosmic rier to a more developed press. often unwilling or scared to ence of Catholic Bishops' peace would be much better to make example of American weakness A publication like Dialogue or come forward. Understandably, pastoral, I found I needed to the candidates a part of the 
in the face of European superi­Common Sense, which can af­the anonymity of the victim is re-examine my beliefs. I con­Catholic experience of Notre ority at educating with a truly ford to treat societal or intel­of tantamount importance. But, sulted priests and professors Dame and provide them with international world view, but lectual topics of interest in certainly to reveal the and obtained a copy of the pas­the morals and ethics for which that is no excuse at a presti­greater depth than The circumstances of those attacks toral letter to evaluate the is­our faith fights daily. gious place of learning such as Observer, is "almost never" that are reported, the settings sue. Initially, my feelings about In this practical world diffi­this. Circumstances at Notre read, according to a majority on campus, and even the raw the ROTC program were similar cult decisions must be made. I Dame do not lend the institu­of the participants in one of the number of occurrences would to Mr. Mills", but now they have feel significantly more secure tion to a developed enough report's surveys. serve to benefit the community been somewhat tempered by knowing that at least a portionstudy of world events. Funds According to its editor-in­as a whole. It would both contemplation. of the officer corps and future 
only recently accumulated make chief, The Observer has a change patterns of behaviors Encountering a priest in my leaders of our country's mili­
the flesburgh Institute now a serious problem in maintaining and legitimize the valid fears of dorm one afternoon, I asked tary forces have received the possibility, whereas for years a dedicated and aggressive many individuals. There are him what he thought about the instruction to make soundthe sciences, engineering and staff that is needed to print and many who should be, and would military program on campus. I moral decisions drawn frombusiness disciplines have been distribute a quality paper. Chris be, shocked to learn the soon learned that he, a man of 
the teachings and doctrine of
much better funded. Donnelly said in the report that breadth and severity of campus God, was in favor of the ROTC this Catholic University. 
In real terms, the number of he felt the lack of a journalism attacks. divisions. Simply put, Father international students at the department at Notre Dame was It is my hope that I have not said what I have found to be David Certo undergraduate level is paltry a major contribution to the so much offended individuals as true: The whole issue is a mat­
Alumni Hall 
when compared with similarly problem. awakened their interests and ter of practicality. Oct. 31, 1989 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Regts Coccta  Rich Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor  Matlhew Gallagher  Advertising Manager .........Molly Killen  
VIewpoint Editor  .. .Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor:  .. .Theresa Kelly  Production Manager...  Alison Cocks  
Accent Editor  .John Blast  Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor  .Enc Batley  OTS Director. .  ..Angela Bellanca  
Saint M•ry's Editor..  .. .yhristtne Gill  Controller....  .. .....Anne L1ndner  

The Observer IS the tndependent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICies of the administration of either institution. The new.s is reported as accurately and ob­Jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letlers, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to an members of the community and the free expression ol varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
NO, NO~ Nof 1 T'S 
GREEK'· WEEK,. 
GREE.I< WfEK.l 

DOONESBURY 
GOSH, M/95 NICK/& I foKJT1fTAU. fA/HATABOUT He 5TIU-IS. 8l/T 
)fJ(J'n; l?tAu:t CFF I?tl 5UR& M/55 toUYPOP? I£T13 FJJ£;e IT­
ro ~ BtU-813N-Ht'I? tore I THtJUGifTHt fOtfJ MUCH 8UZZ 
Nfffr MINV 70 ~YOU IVA~ filft!NG CANYOU68T IF I TA6 A6AIN.' j ! fflYrl A 5I.JCI(£R.! 
A~r ~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
50H~ NO, OUT IN [J/[;1..{5 THe C¥'f?N. I'M YOU... ON AFRAIOMI~ 7Ht51-Yr t()UY IS A BIT 
I 

'The vocation of the magnetic needle is to point toward the pole. The vocation of humankind is to bear witness to God.' 
G.A. Gordon 

Accent 
Tuesday, November 7, 1989
page 8 
KAREN HOLDERER accent writer 
et ready Notre Dame and Saint 
ary's, Nov. 7-11 is Greek Week. 

Long ago, fraternities and 
sororities across the country 
began this traditional event. 
Despite the absence of the true 
Greek system at ND, Student 
Union Board Manager Raja Singh 
explained that SUB decided it was time 
to bring Greek Week to ND. 
The planned events of Greek Week allow students to participate both individually and in teams with their brother or sister dorm. Some events are also open to faculty. The winning brother and sister dorm will be an­nounced at Friday's pep rally, and each dorm will win a VCR. 
The schedule of events begins on Tuesday, Nov. 7 with Greek Streak. Greek Streak is a 5K run which will begin at Fieldhouse Mall and will follow a course around campus. This event is for individual participation only; it will not count toward the dorm competitions. (There will be a $5 en­trance fee and T-shirts will be given to participants.) Later that night, "Animal House" will be shown twice in Cushing Auditorium. at 8:00p.m. and 10:15 p.m. 
The Battle of Troy will begin its rage on Wednesday, Nov. 8, from 4:40 to 6:30 
p.m. This Greek tournament, which will take place on the courts of Stepan, will consist of four events: a Skateboard­Plunger relay, Tug-of-War, Frisbee Golf and Super Skis -all of which will be explained further at the given time of each event. 
In addition, a Polaroid Scavenger hunt (the participants must take Polaroid shots of what they find) is planned from 
3:00 to 5:00p.m., and will begin at the Fieldhouse Mall. "Revenge of the Nerds" will also be shown at Cushing at 8:00 and 10:15 p.m. 
On Thursday, Nov. 9, the Greek Olympics will begin. They will take 

GREE WEEK 
Notre Dame goes State ... naAmru<J>mtuKmBot B a SCHEDULE OF EVENTS A 
ATUESDAY a 
')
f'w 

1t 
<p 
1(
A
p 
4:30 Greek Streak (sign up at 2:30 at Fieldhouse Mall) () 8:00, Animal House I Cushing Auditorium 10:15 
WEDNESDAY 
xt 
4:30 Earthball I White Field Super Skis I South Quad Skateboard & Plunger Relays I Stepan Courts Scavenger Hunt I Campus Wide 
5:30 Tug'O War I White Field 
p
8:00, Revenge of the Nerds I Cushing Auditorium 10:15 
THURSDAY 
0 
4:00 Pudding, Jello, & Pie 
Vt 
Eating Contests I Fieldhouse Mall 7 -Legged Races & Dizzy lzzy Races I North Quad 
FRIDAY 
v 
4:00 Obstacle Course I South Quad {) 
\f/Ot Uf\8'tf\f\1tOYT1£tK"( K 
Natural, light, distinct menu fare at Cornucopia 
ALISON COCKS accent writer 
College students dissatisfied with chicken patties and who have exhausted their tolerance for pizza will find a pleasant, more substantial alternative in the fare offered at the Cornucopia, located in down­town South Bend. 
Patrons enjoy an intimate, relaxing atmosphere as they dine by candlelight -the effect enhanced by soft, classical mu­sic. The restaurant is small, quiet and enables groups to en­joy one another's company, unaware of the rush of activity around them. 
The Cornucopia's menu, once strictly composed of health food, has since been expanded to accommodate a broader range of tastes. Tofu is still present on the menu, but so is pasta, although these dishes are not the calorie-filled con­coctions found at Italian restaurants. Fattening extras, such as french fries and onion rings, are absent here, but, equally tasty, more nutritious alternatives, such as yogurt and homemade cornbread, can be found. 
The Cornucopia serves breakfast from 7:00 a.m. to 
AT A GLANCE 
NAME: CORNUCOPIA ADDRESS: 303 S. MICHIGAN HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY, BREAKFAST I 7:00-11 :00, LUNCH/ 11 :00-2:00. FRIDAY, DINNER/ 5:00-8:30. RESERVATIONS: NOT NECESSARY. DRESS: CASUAL 
11 :00 a.m. and lunch from 
11:00 a.m. to 2:00p.m. on weekdays. and is only open for dinner on Friday nights until 
8:30 p.m. The menu features omelettes, hot and cold sand­wiches, an array of salads and sauteed tofu, in addition to its dinner entrees. 
All dinner entrees include soup and salad, but can also be ordered a Ia carte for a lower price. Diners can either opt for the spicy Vegetarian Chili or the soup of the day. 
The cream of cauliflower soup was excellent, thick, and prepared with chunks of cauliflower and peas. The sal­ads are composed of fresh veg­etables topped with a generous helping of alfalfa sprouts. Dressing choices range from tomato-herb to tofu-tahini. 
Fresh, hot, wholegrain rolls also accompanied the dinner. 
The outstanding feature of the entrees themselves is the extensive use of fresh vegetables to add flavor. The vegetable lo mein, a special of the day, met with universal ap­proval. Its flavor set it apart. The peanut butter in the recipe combined with the variety of vegetables and the flavor of a place at both the Fieldhouse Mall and on North Quad. The olympic activities will consist of a 7 -legged race (a race in which six people's legs are tied together) and Dizzy Izzies (a relay where each team member, one after an­other, runs up to a baseball bat laying on the ground, puts their forehead to it and circles it 12 times as fast as possible.) Various food games will also take place at the time. 
An Obstacle Course will top off the week's fun on Friday from 4:00 to 6:00 
p.m. on South Quad. Only the teams which qualified in the top three places after the week can participate in this event. The overall winners will be announced at the pep rally that night. 
Lastly, there will also be a week-long tournament of "Win, Lose, or Draw." The rules will be the same as the television show, but with the brother­sister dorm-teams competing against each other. 
"Last year people were receptive to it and hopefully they'll come back. I'm pretty optimistic about it and I hope that the whole campus will go all out," Singh stated. 
Singh predicted a greater response to Greek Week as opposed to last year's "Quest for the Crown," which was a similar type of event-filled week. This, he explained, is due to the fact that Greek Week is open to so many different people. 
Singh predicted a greater response to Greek Week as opposed to last year's "Quest for the Crown," which was a similar type of event-filled week. This, he explained, is due to the fact that Greek Week is open to so many people. 
With so many events for dorms to participate in, Assistant Commissioner Beth Wittman hopes that "as many people from the dorms will be involved as possible. Dorms can display their spirit throughout the week." 

Chinese stir fry. Acheery atmosphere coupled with palate-pleasing food make the Cornucopia a great Spinach lovers place for a quiet luncheon will enjoy the 
Those who prefer a lighter on display at the front desk costMalfatti, the house specialty of meal should try the New Age only 45 cents, and were worthspinach croquettes made with chef salad -an assortment of every penny. 
eggs, parmesan cheese and greens, cheese, egg and tomato Approximately $10 ($11 withbreadcrumbs and covered in with chicken chunks, tuna salad tip) purchased a satisfying, fill­parmesan cheese and a or raw tofu, served with ing meal along with a glass of mushroom-tomato sauce. 
homemade dressing. wine chosen from their wineThe spinach lasagne roll-up ­
There is a dessert menu list.
spinach, carrots and cottage which includes crepes, Students with the desire for acheese placed between flat cheesecake and ice cream -home-cooked meal will find sheets of lasagne served in a although we discovered another something close to one in the mushroom-tomato sauce -re­dessert option as we paid the offerings of the Cornucopia.
ceived rave reviews. 
bill. The oatmeal raisin cookies 
The Observer page 9 
The Observer accepts classifieds every buSiness day from 10 a.m to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12 30 to 3 p m. at the Samt Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class1fleds IS 3 p.m All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. mcludmg spaces.
Classifieds 
HELP! I NEED NAVY STUD. AND NEED smu ga's 277-5934 1 ROUND TRIP TICKET TO Top PHILLY CREW Quotes: SMU GA AND STUD. BILL X3346 
MIAMI! 
TAKE A BREAK! I'LL BUY YOUR Leave Chi. on Wed. Night-return 
Hey zers, I need 2 SMU GA's call 11-18 PENN STATE SKTS. CALL on Sun. Night over Thanksgiving. WANT TO PARTY? Amy at 284-5532 COLLECT: 609-390-0456. Cost is only $215. Please call Ted 
\l-_N_O_T_IC_Es~J ~~_W_A_N_TE_D____, 
Spee-Dee at 283-3592 as soon as possible.
Wordprocessing FREE TRIPS, CASH, INTENSIVE -The Dry White Season (Karen's 237-1949 FUN!! . I need 1 SMU GA. Please call I NEED NAVY,SMU,PENN ST, & prediction of her winter) Student sun/ski tour operator Brian at x12H. MIAMI TIXS.272-6306 
-It's not how you row, it's how you seeks fun-loving campus 
I Need 2 SMU GA's 
WORDPROCESSING LOOK 
Please call Scott X4113
representatives. HELP!! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR SMU 
Call HI-LIFE 1-800-263-5604. DESPARATEL Y seeking one Stud CALL KIM AT 284-4269. THANX! -JUST DO IT Need 1 SMU student ticket. 
272-8827 -Puddin' pants 
Spee-Dee for SMU . Please help. -Show 'em what your made of! Wordprocessing -Whitman's hot mix 
RIDE NEEDED to southwest Dennis x 1 7 42 Please call Jay 2314. Virginia/ Roanoke Area for need 3 smu ga's -Celebration
237-1949 
Thanksgiving. Call Tom@ 2299 Wanted: SMU GA's at any price! please call kris Miami Ticket -crew: the most sexually frustrated Kevin #1373 
Miami Ticket 
WORDPROCESSING x2568 team 
Miami Ticket OVERSEAS JOBS.$g00-2000 mo.
272-8827 
Miami Ticket ADOPTION: Happily married white All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO SINGLES,PAIRS,ETC ARE FINE Snow, Cold , Wet, Miserable. Sell -90% of all backrubs lead to couple wishes to share love and me your SMU student tickets! Call 
Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, WE NEED 7 SMU GA'S FOR $$$ 
BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 MARC X3375 OR DAVE X3387 I need 4 Miami Tickets. Please something sexual-sorry Cesar! help me. I'm just your average NO 
security with newborn. We are John@2299! 
student looking to support myboth architects and will provide RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCH. NY 
••••••••••••FREE team. Call Will at 283-1474. 
joyful and creative home. NEEDSMUTIX -Steph: "Pat me on the back hard­
THANK. BK.-ANDY 3114 
TICKEr•••••••••• 
NOW!" Your ticket to fitness is at JUST Thanksforyoursupport.
Expenses paid. Legal. Call StudorGA 
Margaret and Jerry collect 718-call Mike #2742 
AEROBICS. Try a free co-ed 
858-6250 evenings and weekends. workout at 4:15 on Tuesday Nov. 7 WOULD LIKE many SMU tix 
BOUGHT HOUSE, NEED PERSONALS -"Ride 'em cowboy" 
wl Jenny. Must show ND or SMC GAs and ST. x4352 TedROOMMATE. QUIET, NEAR 1.0. Call259-1465 for info. -Gerry's getting some Iovin'ATTENTION MAC USERS CAMPUS. ROOM FURNISHED OR HiT.Bass!ll
MADMACS MEETING UNFURNISHED. MUST BE NEED SMU TIX: 3 GA'S & 1 STU -Karen: "I feel so close to the trailer 
MATURE, NON-SMOKER. $200 HiT.Bass!!!
CALL DAVE #1417 
TUESDAY, NOV 7 NEED 8 GAs FOR NAVY now..!"
MO + 112 UTIL. CALL 232-9952. 
OR SMU. CALL DOYLE x1652
7:00PM Need X-MAS or bar cash? 
ROOM 300, COMP-MATH BLDG BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY I need 1-3 SMU stud tix!! University Pizza is NOW HIRING -Where's Cesar? He must be 219-291-7153. Call Chris, 233-0057. drivers and inside help. We'll work changing his pants. 
DOOR PRIZES Need 3 SMU G.A.'s. 
with any schedule (8-40 hrs!wk). 
Will pay big bucks. 
ROOMMATE WANTED I NEED 2 SMU GA'S YOU NAME Good pay, great people!!! Apply at
X4043, ask for Mark. 
PERSON(MALE) TOSHARE YOUR PRICE CALL RICK AT 18055 St. Rd. #23 (oppositeATTENTION MAC USERS 
TURT CRK APT. PRIVATE Coach's & 3 drs closer to the mall). ( ... to the tune of "On Top Of Old 
MADMACS MEETING 289-3905 Don't need your SMU 
BEDROOM, FURNISHED, Smokey")
$$$$$$$$$ 
HOTEL RESERVATIONS? 
REASONABLE RENT 277-8398 MODELS NEEDED FOR BEAUTY 
$$$$$$$$$$$$
TUESDAY, NOV 7 x3883 SHOW NOV. 13TH, CENTURY On top of mostaccioli 7:00PM CENTER. L'OREAL EXPERTS All covered with sauce ROOM 300 COMP MATH BLDG 
FOR SALE You dropped my dollar meatball 
HELP! I NEED 6 SMU GA's! 
WILL HELP YOU CHOOSE THE Oh we were so sloshedCall Greg at 1653
PUBLIC DOMAIN DISKS CHEAP CHIC NEW HAIRCUT,
ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT Desparately need two student HIGHLIGHTS, COLOR OR PERM
SEIZED VEHICLES FROM $100. Yolanda was laughing
ATTENTION MAC USERS SMUtilt YOU DESIRE. ALL SERVICES 
FORDS, MERCEDES, While Scrog turned bright red 
PLEASE!!! I NEED SMU STUDENT ask for Kristin, 2784
MADMACS MEETING ARE FREE "BECAUSE YOU'RE 

CORVETTES, CHEVYS. The Streetwalker toasted 
TICKETS!!! CALL WORTH IT." 
To RYDER'S new debt
SURPLUS BUYERS GUIDE. 1-NEIL AT x2794 
TUESDAY, NOV 7 MODEL CALL-THURSDAY, NOV. 
602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
7:00PM 9TH, 7 PM, MARRIOTT HOTEL, Need 2 GA's for SMU 
ROOM 300, COMP MATH BLDG SOUTH BEND. 
Is It True .... Jeeps for $44 through Phil271-5691 
$$$$$$$$$$$MIAMI$$$$$$$$$$ the Government? Call for facts! 1­
CHEAP SONY DISKS I need MIAMI tix-call Jeff at 3555 Actors/ Actresses needed ***••*** * * ** *** * * *.* * ••••••••••••••* 
312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 
2 SMU GA'S FOR SALE. CALL 
$$$$$$$$$$$ MIAMI $$$$$$$$$$ for a student produced film. DAN 714-738-3775. 
TYPING AVAILABLE. Contact Tom Howley,#1430. 
Going to Florida for CHRISTMAS? 287-4082. 
I need a ride. Can leave anytime I-WAY TICKET FROM SB TO $150 FIRST 3 SMU GA'S alter Wed. Will pay gas, etc, but I DALLAS/FORT WORTH. LEAVES Jim #1717 
NEED 2 SMU GA'S X4969 
TYPING 
need to know by 11/1 0 PICKUP & DELIVERY 
DEC 22.FEMALE ONLY. 
$160.CALL LISA AT 4g16. 
277-7406 NEED MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY$$$. SPEND 8 WEEKS IN SPAIN, CALL TRISH x412t
I NEED 3 SMU ga's. Have a heart CALL JIM HAGAN COLLECT 404-SPRING 1990. SHARE AMERICAN .................................... 
ATTENTION MAC USERS IBM PROPRINTER XL & and make my little brothers 331-6039. CALL 404-351-7009 CULTURE WITH TEACHERS & MADMACS MEETING AFTER 6 PM. STUDENTS.CONTACTINTL
IBM PC Jr. w/ 256K FOR SALE birthday. Call Jim x-3107, or Tessa 271-9895 
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS, 1-800­Asking $250 for printer I $300 for 
TUESDAY, NOV 7 Need 3 SMU GA's. Have 2 Stud. 869-7056 FOR DETAILS. 
computer, or best offer-must sell
7:00PM tick. plus cash. 
JOIN THE RUSH ­before going abroad for spring 
Call Jamie 272-1 1 1 2 semester. Call Christine 283-2845. 
ROOM 300 COMP MATH BLDG NEED 2 SMU GA'S AND 1 STU HATE MIAMI IN MIAMI 
HAVE 2 PENN ST. WOULD LIKE Need a ride (one way) to ROUNDTRIP TICKET 4 SALE MICROSOFT WORD 4.0 DEMO need 2 SMU tix real bad call me Pittsburgh for Thanksgiving ? Call 
TO MAKE TRADE. DOUG X2226 SBtoMIAMI 11122-11/27 #15111975 EL CAMINO. RUNS GOOD. 
now@ 1765 Beth 4298 $1500 FIRM. PAT 3598. 
ATTENTION MAC USERS MADMACS MEETING I HAVE MIAMI GA's!!! Call #151 1 
Need one SMU GA or Student Ticket. Call Laura at x3887 or
TICKETS 
x3220.
TUESDAY, NOV 7 
7:00PM NEED SMU GA. CHRIS x1067 
I'll buy any tickets for any home 2 people need a ride to Pittsburgh
Poor slob needs lots o' SMU TIX 
ROOM 300 COMP MATH BLDG 
game, or Miami. area for Thanksgiving, leave 11122
to fend off major depression. Michelle (Loser), 
WE NEED SMU GA's and Student MAC PORT ABLE REVEALED Please call Matt 277-9485
call JEFF at 239-3714, return 11126. Will help with $$. 
TIX!!!! Call us at 271-9821. 
leave a message. Thanks. Call Kathy 4914. 
Who won the game on Sat.? How are those bruises? 
To the guys in Pangborn who have
I simply must have Do you always ask strange men
FOR SALE 2 Miami tickets for beer? 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill bad attitudes and actually think 
1 SMUSTUD
277-3653 they can play soccer.
ca11Ted@1204 Jeanne
LOST/FOUND 
CALL SUE 
If you had any pride you would 271-8945 
withdraw your team from the 
I REALLY NEED TWO SMU You need TXTS. ca11277-3653 
tournament.
TICKETS. PLEASE CALL CHAD 
LOST: A black Columbia ski Revenge will be sweet! 
jacket the week of the USC game. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ AT X1721. 
signed,
If you've seen it, please call Kelly HELP!!! FOR SALE: Plane Ticket 
Need two SMU tix please call 284-your Mother 
Olinger at 277-2944. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
4930!!!!!!!!!! 
Leave: O'Hare, 12/21 11:08 AM My GRANDFATHER and his 
I NEED TWO SMU Arrive: ROCHESTER, NY, 1:34PM STUDENT TIX OR GA'S Call1329. 
ACCORD IAN would give anything 
Lost: Weekend of Pitt game -for two MIAMA GAs. Willing to pay
DESPERATELY NEED: 
Women's brushed gold wedding high price! Call AMY x2702 PLEASE CALL MATT HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY 
GA'S FOR NAVY AND USC 
ring with inscription JKB to JMR at283-1961 LYNN!!!!! 
STUD FOR USC AND PITT.
7/28!73. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Please leave message You are an awesome friend. 
$$$$$ ABSOLUTE $$$$$ 
NOTRE DAME LODGING FOR TOP DOLLAR PAID! 
Call313-322-5482 Collect. Have a great day! 
PENN STATE GAME Luxurious Love,
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
CALL DAN x1300 condominiums at hotel prices. 
Sara-berra Alter an exhilarating game, return need 1 SMU St. TIC. Cara x491 7 
I lost my driver's license and ...HELP I NEED 2 S.M.U. G.A.s' 
to Blue Knob Ski & Country Club 
several other important cards. I need 5 SMU Studs. Please call Call #4364 kevin h .. Thanks. CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill and enjoy dining at The Village Inn 
They were in a blue packet and are Sandy x4012 atmosphere, daily & weekly very important to me. If you find specials, pool table, English darts, 
277-3653 Restaurant, end the evening by celebrating in the Lounge. To 
them please call Katherine Needed: SMU GA's for big $$$ Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! and great company. 234-3541 complete the day rAiax in one of
O'Keefe at x3629. Thank you so call Chris at 277-4392 A bunch of my tall blonde 
You need TXTS. ca11277-3653 our indoor pools, hot tubs, saunas,
much!!!! girlfriends from California are & steam rooms. Bus transportation 
coming to the SMU game. I need 
available depending onHELP! I NEED 2 SMU GA'S FOR tickets!!!!! Student and/or GA's!!!! 
NEED 4 SMU GA'S 
LOST: Ladies CORVAIR BIKE. MY PARENTS. #1636 HiAg! occupancy. For further information 
MIKE call x2600 
TIM 271-8795
White with blue trim. BIG basket on please call Blue Knob Ski & the front... Great sentimental value. SMU GA'S NEEDED Bo may not know Diddley, but do Country Club at 814-239-5191 
I NEED TWO SMU GA'S AND 
Any info-no questions askedl­you know BILLIARDS? Sign up for 
1 or2tix, MATTx1211 I need 1 SMU GA or 2 stud tickets. 
-TWO SMU STUD'S! CALL 
call Bridget at 283-2457. the 8-Ball Tourney in the Games NEEDED: Small Couch or Love
Call Teri x3944. 
ELAINE x4209 Room in LaFortune today! Seat. Please Call x3609. 
INeedSMUtix 2 MIAMI GA's 4 SALE 
NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL GREG 
Found a camera near the library 5StudorGA MATT 271-9576 To the girl who called me Sat. 
1653.
the week before fall break. Call Chris x4199 STUDY IN JAPAN THIS SUMMER. night to ask me to her SYR: I'm x15g3 and ask for David. LEARN ABOUT JAPANESE sorry my phone cut us off. Please $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need 2 SMU GAS for folks ­
CULTURE, BUSINESS & call back so we can finish the 
NEEDED -3 SMU tix SEAN X2311. SOCIETY. LIVE WITH A HOST conversation. I NEED 4 SMU GA'S. PLEASE (STUDENT OR GA) FAMilY. OTHER SPECIAL CALL MARY 288-0885. PLEASE CALL STEPH AT 283-I need 4 SMU GA's Call DON at 
FEATURES. CALL INT'L Thank You, St. Jude 
4220. x1789 INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS, 1-800­LOST: Mickey mouse key chain SMWho? Exactly how I feel, but $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 869-7056, FOR DETAILS. with three keys on it. for some odd reason my parents I need 4 SMU GA's. Call ANITA Call Chritine X2665 want to see this game. Please TOP$ x4942 6¢ copies 6¢ copies 6¢ copies 
Big 4 Classic 
sell me your SMU GA's and make ALL HOME GA'S THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune 
Decerrber2
LOST: Sony DISCMAN at my dad very happy on his birthday. 31 2-920-9350 is open late for your convenience! LOFTUS, Saturday morning Call Brigid@ 284-4101. 6¢ copies 6¢ copies 6¢ copies 
Sponsored by Soph. Class before the Navy game. REWARD! Need 5 SMU Student Tixs OVERHEAD TRANSPARENCIES 
nx and Transportation $35 Please call Monica x4917. I NEED 2GA'S AND 1 STUD. FOR 2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale Call Derek Dondo x2400 Phone# 239-8138 
Available In Soph. Class Ollioe SMU. CALL MARK @X. 1722. 272-5092 FAX# (219) 239-8139 
tlvnunh 11/15 

-----·· 
Tuesday, November 7, 1989 
page 10 The Observer 
Bo knows best... Jackson reaching legendary status 
-
..... 
APPhoto 
Quarterback Doug Williams looks dejected as he walks to the sidelines 
after one of Washington's losses. The Redskins dropped to 4-5 with a 
loss to the previously winless Dallas Cowboys on Sunday. 
"He was the MVP of the All­Star baseball game," Raiders cornerback Mike Haynes said. "I think this year he's trying to get to be the MVP of the Pro Bowl and become the answer to a trivia question. He just seems to be possessed this year." 
Jackson's personal history has been well-documented. The 1985 Heisman Trophy winner at Auburn, he originally opted for baseball as a professional, rejecting Tampa Bay after the Buccaneers made him the first selection in the entire 1985 draft. 
But the Raiders took him in the seventh round of the 1986 draft, and he joined them after the 1987 baseball season for the first time. 
Jackson, who turns 27 late this month, played in seven games that season and gained 554 yards in 81 carries. 
His best game as a pro came that year, on Monday night, Nov. 30, when he gained a team-record 221 yards on 18 carries against Seattle. His big 580 yards on 136 carries. them and four of five since Art play of that game was a 91-Shell replaced Mike Shanahan yard touchdown run, which "Having Bo on the team as head coach on Oct. 3. stood as a franchise record makes things a lot easier," until Sunday. Raiders defensive end Howie 
Before the coaching change,
Long said. "It's like having 
the Raiders had a 13-27 record 
someone with the speed of a
That was the only game in dating back to the final four
Herschel Walker combined with 
which he surpassed the 100­games of the 1986 season.
truly great athletic ability."
yard mark in rushing as a pro ''I've never seen a team play
until he gained 144 yards on 19 By trouncing the Redskins like this," said Golic, who carries in the Raiders' 37-24 and Bengals the last two signed as a free agent with the win over Washington on Oct. Sundays, the Raiders find Haiders last March after six 
29. themselves 5-4 and firmly en­fine seasons with the Cleveland trenched in the playoff picture. Browns. "We have so much 
Jackson played 10 games for They've won three of four confidence, we believe we can the Raiders in 1988, gaining games since Jackson joined get the job done, and we do." 
Redskins looking for an answer after embarrassing loss to Dallas 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Doug this job, when you lose you get playoffs were not out of reach. Williams wasn't the answer. fired," he said. "As far as job It didn't work. And now Coach Joe Gibbs has security goes, am I worried "We're going to have to nowhere to look but in the mir­about it? No." scramble to get some things 
ror as he tries to make a win­Gibbs has placed the brunt of together," Gibbs said. "I like ner out of the Redskins. the blame for the Hedskins' this team and tlw guys we've 
To shake the team out of its lackluster performance upon got on it, but we just can't get doldrums, Gibbs inserted himself. it turned on. I've got to find a Williams at quarterback for "As a football team, we're way to turn that around." Sunday's game against Dallas. just not getting the job done But Williams, who led the and it all starts with me," Former Hedskins general Redskins to a Super Bowl ~ic­Gibbs said. "The things I'm do­manager Bobby Beathard. who tory in January 1988, couldn't ing are not getting us wins." left Washington shortly after even help the Redskins get past The Redskins' first three the 1989 NFL draft, believes the previously winless Cowboys. losses this season -twice to apathy may be part of the 
straight year. Since making ing by the Los Angeles Haiders with what they've accomplished their third Super Bowl appear­on Oct. 29, during which the in their careers -three Super ance of the decade in 1988, the Redskins committed eight Bowls," Beathard said SundayRedskins have beaten only three turnovers and were penalized on NBC's "NFL Live." teams with winning records 11 times. Afterward, Gibbs "I think Joe's biggest chal­and have lost 14 of 25 games. tried to shake up the team by lenge is to get these players to 
"My job is to win football inserting Williams for a fum­put it up notch," Beathard
a games, and when I lose, ah, you bling Mark Hypien, altering the said. "They've played what they
know, you have to understand practice routine and selling his think is hard. They have to playthat most of the guys who take players on the fact that the much harder to win." 
Cleveland's Mack is released from prison 
after a short period of incar­send you back to prison,"CLEVELAND (AP) ceration in the belief further McMonagle told the lwo-timeCleveland Browns fullback imprisonment would serve no Pro Bowl player.
Kevin Mack was released from valid purpose.
prison Monday, after ser-ving Mack smiled and shook hands one month of a six-month with defense lawyer Gerald S. prison term for using cocaine. Mack, 27, began a two-year Gold after the court hearing. probation, effective immedi­He was then ushered out of the 
Just when he would be able to ately, along with several re­courtroom back to the jail area play again in an NFL game re­quirements that included regu­to change clothes and complete mained an uncertain. lar urine testing for drug probation release paperwork. 
abuse. 
Judge Richard J. McMonagle Mack's wife, AVa, sitting in of Cuyahoga County Common "There's something I want the courtroom gallery, wept as Pleas Court granted Mack you to know. You have one the judge granted Mack's free­
shock probation, or release dirty urine (test result) and I'll dom. 

LOS ANGELES (AP)-When Bo Jackson is at the plate or in the backfield, don't blink. 
He may hit a 480-foot homer or run 92 yards for a touch­down. 
He's played in only 21 NFL games and has surpassed the 100-yard mark in rushing just three times, yet Bo inspires those who watch him to say he'll be one of the all-time greats before he's through. 
Jackson is already pretty close. "Bo is as advertised," Cincinnati coach Sam Wyche said Sunday after Jackson gained 159 yards on 13 carries and scored two touchdowns to 
lead the Los Angeles Raiders 
past the Bengals 28-7. "He is 
one of those rare ones that 
comes along only so often. 
"I hope everyone enjoys 
watching him now because he 
will go down as one of the le­
gends of the game, believe you 
me." 
Jackson. playing in just his 
fourth game since baseball sea­
son ended, ran over safety 
Rickey Dixon in scori!lg on a 7­
yard run early in the first quar­
ter and was a blur during a 
fr anchi s,e-record 9 2 -yard 
touchdown run late in the 
opening period. 
"I can't even sit down any­more, because I'm afraid I'll missing something," Raiders defensive lineman Bob Golic said. "Thank God for that big replay board at the end of the stadium, so I can see what I missed when I turn my head." 
The 92-yard dash was a sim­ple sweep of left end. Once Jackson turned the corner, he was history. 
"My grandmother could have run that play," he said. "I looked ahead of me. and thtJre was nothing there but green." 
Bengals cornerback Eric Thomas chased Jackson for a while, but it was in vain. 
"That was some run," Thomas said. "He just sort of dipped inside and ducked out­side, and then he outran every­body. Bo would probably be the best back in the league if he played football full-time, if he 
isn't already, and all I can say is, 'More power to him.'" 
When he's not running for the Raiders, Jackson is hitting for the Royals. 
This season, he had 32 homers, 105 RBis and stole 26 bases. 
Jackson responds modestly to all the praise. 
"The people responsible for my runs are really the linemen and my fullback (Steve Smith)," he said. "I do what I can, I don't try to do things I know I can't do." 
What those were, Jackson 
didn't say. 
"I only do what I do because 
of all these other guys that help 
me," he said. "Today was just 
another day at the office." 
In his four games this season, Jackson has gained 467 yards on 63 carries (7.4) and scored four touchdowns. 


Tuesday, November 7, 1989 
The Observer page 11 
It's Magic... Orlando beats Knicks 
Expansion team acquires first win in history of franchise 

ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -The expansion Orlando Magic got its first-ever NBA victory Monday night, winning in its second game by beating the de­fending Atlantic Division cham­pion New York Knicks 118-110. 
Reggie Theus scored 24 points and Jerry Reynolds and Terry Catledge each added 19 for the Magic. Orlando broke a 94-all tie by outscoring the Knicks 12-2 and stayed in front with 10 straight foul shots in the final 1:33. 
A sellout of 15,077 -the same crowd that saw the Magic lose its opener to New Jersey by five points -watched Orlando stay close all night. The Knicks, led by Patrick Ewing's 29 points, were never ahead by more than three points. 
Gerald Wilkins scored 21 and Johnny Newman had 19, includ-
MattGuokas 
Orlando Magic coach 
ing a 3-point shot that trimmed the Magic's advantage to 110­107 with 32 seconds left. 
The Knicks (1-2) were hurt nine seconds later when Newman was called for a breakaway foul. Theus hit two free throws and Orlando re­
tained possession of the ball. 
Orlando led after every quar­ter. The Magic was ahead 55­51 at halftime and scored the last 11 points of the third pe­riod for a 90-82 edge. Theus and Reynolds each scored 17 points in the second half and Reynolds also had 12 rebounds. 
The Magic, 2-6 in the presea­son including a triumph over the champion Detroit Pistons, pulled away during a four­minute stretch midway through the fourth quarter. 
Reynolds, held to two points in the first half, fueled the burst with a fast-break dunk and a free throw. He later hit a jump shot and two free throws to frustrate New York after the Knicks moved to within six points on Charles Oakley's layup. 

APPhoto The Red Raiders of Texas Tech vaulted into the top 25 football polls for the first time last week after they defeated the University of Texas. Tech's rank of 23 marked the first time the Raiders have been in the polls in the last 12 years. 
~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
= ­
= = 
= Call to Peacemaking Week "" 
November 5-10 _ 
= = 

The Heat is On: Race for Peace 
~sd~ss~ay,N©vem~er~ 
5lk \F@\(g~ ~ [p)oMo /Ad BUJ~~d~ffl@ 
plus: Dinner at CSC 6 p.m. Overseas Development Network 

The Heat is On: Environmental Crisis 5 W(8)cdlfil~~cdl©l~~ [N(Q)~~mlb~IF ~ 1 [p)oMo Th®J(Q)cdJ(Q)IF®J~~ T H E ;;= 
with Howard Ris, Director, Union of 5 _ 
= 
HEll= 
Concerned Scientists and ND Professors Barry Lopez -1$ and John Halfman 

N 

-~[ft)w01J'@[li)Ui1il®[ft)~IID~ ~@U~@[li) ©~M[§)w !Ri®©W©~~[li)~ O~®lfil ­
~ ~[li)®lt~~~® ~@II' Q[li)~@IJ'[li)IID~~@[li)IID~ W-'®tiD©® ~~(ill@]~®® ~~n~~;~~dot 
heJhiQ;;~.j Scientists 
~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIi 


APPhoto Dave Corzine of the Orlando Magic and his teammates won their first NBA game yesterday, defeating last year's Atlantic Division champs 
the New York Knicks, 118-110. ' 
Tech back in Top 25, looks to stay this time 
LUBBOCK, Texas (AP) ­Their tuxedos are on, the music has started and the Texas Tech football team isn't about to sit this one out. 
Tech climbed into the na­tional rankings for the first time in 12 years by beating the Texas Longhorns on Saturday in Austin. The Red Raiders are ranked 23rd going into a home game Saturday against Texas Christian, and Coach Spike Dykes said Monday he wants to stay in the Top 25 for a while. 
"We don't need to get kicked out of the big black-tie ball the first chance we get to go," he said. "We need to dance a little bit." 
The last time the Red Raiders wore their black ties, they were ranked 16th in the Nov. 14, 1977, poll. They lost that week to Houston, dropped out of the rankings and didn't reappear until this week. 
Tech (6-2 overall and 3-2 in the Southwest Conference) beat their third ranked opponent this season by defeating 22nd­ranked Texas and knocking the 
Longhorns  from  the  Top  25.  
Tech  also  beat  Arizona  and  
Texas A&M.  

To hear Dykes tell it, the Red Raiders could be in danger of defeating a fourth Top 25 team -themselves -if they savor the 24-17 victory over the Longhorns too long and fail to take TCU seriously. 
"TCU got beat 55-10 last week (against Houston) and you're going to say, 'You say they're good?"' Dykes said. "I say they're good. They played Air Force three weeks ago, Air Force was ranked 15th in the nation, and they beat Air Force, 27-9. I'm talking about rare back and beat 'em. 
"The big thing is going to be to convince people that TCU is for real, and that we've got to play our tail off to play them, to beat them. I think our play­ers understand that. " 
Sailing 
continued from page 16 
"We knew going into the race it was going to be very, very, close" explained Cooper. "I don't know if we would have won if we would have done it the other way." 
The finish for the Irish was especially impressive because Notre Dame was the only team with all women skippers. 
The Waterpolo Club will have its Fall Tournament this weekend. Teams for Southern Illinois, Dayton, Eastern Michigan, Miami (Oh.), and an­other team to be determined will compete in the round-robin event. The Irish should finish in the top 3 and will hope to chal­lenge the favored Flyers of Dayton. 
The Rowing Club will hold its last regatta of the season this Sunday on the St Joe River at Elkhart. Purdue will give the Irish their stiffest competition, but teams from Michigan, Michigan St., Indiana, and Cincinnatti will also be tough. 
The Rugby Club will take on Ball St. this weekend. 


AP Photo 
The Cincinnati Bengals may have to do without the services of their star quarterback, Boomer Esiason, for next Monday's game against the Houston Oilers. Esiason suffered a lung injury when he was tackled during last week's game against the Raiders, and doctors are unsure when he will be ready to play 
Miami's Smith comfortable in NFL 
Rookie running back hoping to stop his injuries, fumbles 
MIAMI (API -Sammie Smith is liking life in the NFL better every wePk. 
Smith carried 25 times for 123 yards in Miami's 19-13 vic­tory over Indianapolis on Sunday for his first 100-yard game as a pro. 
''I'm making progress, but I've got a long way to go," Smith said. ''I've got a lot to learn." 
Smith became the first Dolphin to run for more than 100 yards since Troy Stradford in December 1987 against the New York Jets. lie helped Miami gain more yards rushing 
(159) than passing ( 149) for the first time in a non-strike­replacement game since 1985. 
"Once a player gets satisfied with his effort, he has nothing to look forward to, and I don't think I ever will be," Smith said. "If I had run for 200 yards, I wouldn't be satisfied. . . . I expect a lot of better days." 
The Dolphins, who made Smith their top draft choice in April, were last in the NFL in rushing in 1988. They improved by just one position in the first half of this season while Smith struggled. 
lie missed training game and the opening game because of a contract holdout. then missed two games with an ankle injury that still bothers him. 
"Getting SammiP into the of­ftHJse is something that we've been trying to make work," Coach Don Shula said Monday. "You just can't do it overnight. 
"lie respondPd when he had the opportunity, and he showed what he's capable of doing." 
Smith's 123 yards against the Colts compared with his total of 16 7 for till' first half of the season. His previous one-game bt~st was 50 yards. lie is still looking for his first NFL touchdown. 
"Getting hPre late really put me behind," the former Florida State star said. "I just felt more confident (Sunday) than I have all ~.ear. I wasn't thinking as much. 
Smith had the third-best rushing day by a Dolphin rookie. lin had the team's 
._........_ 
Dolphins' Kumerow arrested 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) -Miami Dolphins de­fensive end Eric Kumerow faces two felony counts of assaulting a police officer after allegedly punching an officer outside a sports bar. police said Monday. 
Kumerow, his sister Cheryl and a friend were arrested Sunday night after police were called following a fight inside Koz's bar, said police who initially misidentified Cheryl Kumerow as Kumerow's wife. The Kumerows, also charged with trespassing, were re· leased Sunday night after posting bond. 
The felony of assaulting a 
longest run of the season -25 yards. 
lie also was charged with two fumbles and missed a handoff that resulted in a third fumble. 
"It could've been a lot better day without the fumbles, but overall I was happy," Smith said. ''I've just got to hold onto the ball better." 
The fumbles led to no Colts points. 
Smith sat out the end of the game because of his sore ankle. The nagging ailment has re-police officer carries a pos· sible maximum sentence of five years' imprisonment. 
Police who found the group outside the bar "described them all as being drunk," Fort Lauderdale Police spokesman Ott Cefkin said. The 6-foot-7. 268-pound Kumerow punched one offi­cer twice, Cefkin said. 
The bar is operated by former Dolphins safety Mike Kozlowski. 
Kumerow's agent, Herb Rudoy of Chicago, said "the story as relayed by police is not true." 
newed criticism that he is in­jury-prone; one columnist ear­lier this season said Smith rep­resented squandered millions for the Dolphins. 
"I don't pay any attention to it," Smith said. "I had to deal with that at Florida State. We were so deep there at running back, there were times I could have played but they didn't let me. 
"I got a bad reputation be­cause I didn't play, but it wasn't my choice. 
Happy 21st Birthday to 
Mark Williams Class of 1990 

from the folks in California 
Tuesday, November 7, 1989 
Bengals still uncertain about Esiason's status 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Boomer Esiason was still spitting up blood Monday. and the Cincinnati Bengals had no fur­ther clue whether they'll have to rely on a rookie quarterback to keep them in the running for the playoffs. 
Esiason took a knee in the back Sunday during 28-7 loss to the Los Angeles Raiders, and the impact of the blow evidently bruised his lung. He was taken out of the game during the Bengals' second series, when he had trouble breathing and started spitting blood. 
He saw a lung specialist Monday and had more X-rays taken. Esiason said there's a chance he might be ready to play by l\1onday night, when the Bengals are in Houston. 
However, the Bengals won't know until later in the week whether the lung problem has cleared up enough to let him play. If not, rookie Erik Wilhelm will start, and the team might take a look at Mike Norseth as a backup. 
"I don't know the prognosis," Esiason said Monday. "I don't know the diagnosis. It's a very strange thing to happen. The doctor I saw today said he's heard of it and he's seen it a couple of times, but it's not a normal thing." 
The Bengals have off Tuesday and won't work out Wednesday. Their next practice will be Thursday, when they'll have a better idea whether Esiason might be available for Houston. 
"It's just a matter of time," Esiason said. "I'd like to think I'll be able to (play Monday). It all depends on how it responds. There really no treatment that I can do. It's just rest and take it easy." 
He said he was still spitting up blood Monday and had ten­derness. 
The injury occured early in the game when he was sacked and was hit in the back by a knee. He watched films of the play Monday and said the tackle was dean, and the knen hit him acddentallv. 
"It's really a freak thing," he said. 
Wilhelm made only his second NFL performance in relief of Esiason on Sunday and com­pleted 15 of 36 passes for 200 yards with one· touchdown and one interception. Wilhelm played behind an injured offen­sive line and without the ser­vices of running backs James Brooks and Eric Ball, who also suffered injuries in the game. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Rowing Club will meet at 7::~0 p.m. Tuesday in 104 O'Shag to collect money and discuss the next race. 
Off-campus students interested in playing on the basket­ball or hockey teams should contact John Koch at 271-8:109. Deadline for registration is Wednesday, Nov. 8. 
Taekwondo Club members who wish to purchase sweat­shirts should be at practice Tuesday. Signups will be held for the annual NATKDA tourney and the awards banquet. 
lnterhall football equipment return will take place Wednesday and Thursday nights. Captains must call 2:39­6100 to find out their time. There will be a $5 late fee charged. 
Off-campus hockey will hold an information meeting at 
5:30 p.m. today in the ()'1-lara Lounge of Lafortune. Call 271­8309 for more information. 
Racquetball Club will meet at 8 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 9, in 184 Nieuwland for members interested in playing in the semester-ending tournament. Call x2334 for more informa­tion. 
In NHL Hockey Action Monday night, the Montreal Canadiens and the St. Louis Blues battled to a 3-3 tic, and the Toronto Mapleleafs defeated Minnesota 2-1 . 
N.D. & St. Mary's Seniors: Explore Career Opportunities with -­
Northern Trust BanK. 
Celebrating a Century of Service -1889-1989 
• Chicago's 4th Largest Commercial Bank 
• Chicago's Largest Trust Company 
Bank officers will host a brief presentation and discussion 
Wednesday at 7:00 p.m. Main Lounge of the University Club 
Officiating bugs Ditka 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. (AP) ­Coach Mike Ditka intimated Monday that the Chicago Bears are getting hurt by the officiat­ing, and not only because of a reversed call that led to a loss at Green Bay. 
On the disputed play, Ditka said the rule states that a call can be reversed "only if it's clear-cut, and you can't tell me it's clear-cut if it takes four minutes to make the decision." 
The play in question was Don Majkowski's 14-yard touch­down pass to Sterling Sharpe for what proved to be the win­ning play in the Packers' 14-13 victory. Line judge Jim Quirk threw the penalty flag. ruling that Majkowski had gone past the line of scrimmage. 
After a lengthy delay, replay official Bill Parkinson ruled it to be a touchdown. 
Parkinson said of the delay: "This was a very important play. The ballgame hinges on this play. We took our time and looked at both feeds." 
Ditka thought otherwise. 
"If the same situation had happened in Chicago, it would never have been overruled," he said. 
Pressed to elaborate, Ditka said "It's my gut feeling. When was the last time a play was re­versed ih our favor?" 
He  then  criticized  referee  
Tom  Dooley  for  not  halting  
play  when  quarterback  Jim  

Harbaugh stopped in the middle of a play because of too much noise. 
IH soccer playoffs start 

AP Photo 
The San Francisco 49ers defeated their division rivals the New Orleans Saints 31-13 last night at Candlestick Park. The 49ers are flying high as they remain tied with the New York Giants for the best record in the NFL at 8-1. 
Johnson relieved by 1st Dallas win 
By CHRIS FILLIO 
Sports Writer 
lnterhall soccer playoffs kicked off on Sunday with four games in the initial round. This year's field of teams is wide­open, with no clear favorites. 
Despite its low number eight seeding, the defending cham­pion Flanner A team (4-2) de­feated previously unbeaten Keenan (5-1) by a 1-0 sc_ore. Flanner A will now face fourth­seed Alumni (5-1), who dis­posed of the Sorin Screaming Otters (5-3) by the same result. 
Third-seed Zahm A (6-1) made easy work of Off-Campus Tiller (3-3) by a score of 4-1. 
"The team really came to­gether," said Zahm forward Jim Fitzgerald. "It's good to see this happening in the play­offs. The key was definitely the defense. I think our chances are as good as anyone else of win­ning this thing." 
Zahm will now await the out­come of the Dillon!Pangborn game. Dillon (4-2) advanced by downing Grace A (3-3) in an­other 1-0 game on a goal by sophomore Chris Flanagan with five minutes remaining. The second-seeded Pangborn Antelopes (5-0) received a bye in the first round. 
"That was our first game in almost three weeks," said Dillon coach Matt O'Connor, "So it took us a while to warm up. We played really well on de­fense, and the offense came through at the right time." 
Ditton/Pangborn and Flanner/Alumni will square off today at 4:30 p.m. at the Stepan field. The Pangborn!Dillon winner will play Zahm A at 4:30 on November 9 for the right to face the Flanner/Alumni winner in the finals at 1:00 p.m. on November 12. 
IRVING, Tex. (AP) -Jimmy Johnson's ordeal is finally over. He's the proud owner of a Pete Rozelle autographed NFL game ball. · 
The rookie coach of the Dallas Cowboys had to wait un­til the ninth week of the season to get his first victory, a 13-3 upset of the Washington Redskins on Sunday night. 
Quarterback Steve Walsh and defensive back Bill Bates gave a grateful Johnson the game ball after the 14-point underdog Cowboys had humbled the Redskins on national television. 
Johnson in turn gave the team Monday off. 
"It's been a hard. frustrating year and there will still be some rocky days ahead but the future of the team is bright," Johnson said. "It's good for the team to have some success because they've worked so hard. Now, we can got about our busi­ness." 
Johnson said the key to the victory was just what he had been preaching, no turnovers and eliminate mistakes. 
''I've never coached a game 

Jimmy Joht 1501'1 
where a team didn't have a penalty that was accepted against us, and, of course we never turned the ball over," Johnson said. "We never did that even at Miami." 
Johnson said the victory was more of a relief than the jubila­tion he felt when he won the na­tional title at the University of Miami. 
"We had been taking some heat but I knew what I was get­ting into when I took the job," Johnson said. "Everybody for­gets this is the same team that lost 10 straight games last year. It takes time to get things turned around. We knew we weren't going to change things overnight." 
Bates, who had an intercep­tion, said the team was relieved that talk of a winless season could be stopped. 
"We got that 0-for-the-sea­
l 
I I I 
son monkey off our backs," Bates said. 
The Cowboys 0-8 start was the second poorest in franchise history. Dallas' worst record in the 30-year history of the club was 0-11-1 in 1960. The Cowboy's were 3-13 last year. 
"The way our defense has been playing I felt we had a good chance," Johnson said. "The defense is really starting to come together." 
Dallas' defense hasn't al­
lowed a touchdown in the last 
nine quarters. 
Johnson will decide this week 
whether Walsh will start again 
even tough rookie quarterback, 
Troy Aikman, is fully recovered 
from a broken finger on his left 
hand. 
"I like those kind of quarter­
back controversies when you 
have two quarterbacks who can 
play," Johnson said. "I like 
having to make those kind of 
decisions." 
The Cowboys play at Phoenix 
on Sunday. The Cardinals beat 
Dallas 19-10 two weeks ago. 
Dallas' victory over 
Washington represented a big 
turnaround. The Redskins had 
defeated Dallas 30-7 in the 
third game of the season. 


------==--~::.:..:....__-_ 
~-­
GREEK STREAK 
5K 
------------~ 
®~@[fi) M[p) ~~~@ ®1! ~~®O@lfiu®M®® ~®00 [ru[ill[fi) ~® ~11 ~~~@ 
~[fi)uaw ~@@ ~®Q®® 
--====-= 
~ ~­
#.\~~ p~rrtij©ijpiin~~ rr~©~h~~ T...~hijrrt~ 
Op~n t©) ~~ij ~~t©~ijttw ~ncdl ~~~cdl~n~~ 
------=--=--~-­
Tuesday, November 7, 1989
page 14 The Observer 
Notre Dame, Colorado ranked 1st and 2nd in latest poll 
By RICK WARNER Nebraska, received the other AP Football Writer four first-place votes -two 
more than last week -and 
Notre Dame and Colorado 1,441 points. 
appear to be on a collision Colorado, which like Notre 
course for the national cham­Dame is 9-0, can clinch an 
pionship. Orange Bowl berth by beating 
Notre Dame, coached by Lou Oklahoma State and Kansas Holtz, remains on top in this State. Notre Dame has a week's Associated Press college breather Saturday against football poll, but second­Southern Methodist, but closes ranked Colorado is gaining out its regular season with ground. tough tests at Penn State and 
The Fighting Irish, who Miami. routed Navy 41-0 for their 21st The Fighting Irish are ex­straight victory, got 56 first­pected to get the other Orange Lou Holtz place votes and 1,496 points Bowl bid if they beat SMU and Following Colorado in the from a nationwide panel of Penn State. Bowl bids will be rankings are Michigan, sports writers and broadcast­officially announced Nov. 25, Alabama and Florida State, ers. the day of the Notre Dame­who all moved up one spot. 

Colorado, boosted by its 27-Miami game, but the matchups Nebraska fell to No. 6, followed 21 victory over then-No. 3 will be worked out before then. by Miami, Illinois, Southern 
Picking up right where they left off 
After playoff emergence, Blackhawks look like winners 
CI IICAGO (AP)-The seeds that I want these guys to get used my 10 years with the team. I the Chicago Blackhawks to." think we're successful because planted at playoff time last Indeed, getting used to we believe in ourselves." spring are yielding a harvest of Keenan's conservative, bump­They also believe in their autumn victories. and-grind style wasn't easy for goaltenders. 
The Blackhawks stumbled the free-wheeling Blackhawks, Alain Chevrier, a mid-season and bumbled through most of many of whom had donn their pickup from Winnipeg, keyed last season under new coach checking only at the bank while the Blackhawks' playoff surge, Mike Keenan, making the play­the goals and losses piled up. posting a 2.61 goals-against ofTs by rallying to beat Toronto The Blackhawks haven't fin­average in postseason play. in overtime on th1~ final night of ished over .500 since 1985-86 Chevrier has been off-and-on the season. Their 66 points and haven't given up less than this season, but preseason were the least of the 16 con­300 goals in a season since '84-pickup Jacques Cloutier has hmders for the Stanley Cup. 85. played so well that Keenan re­
Then, a funny thing happened. "Mike has made a difference cently gave him the No. 1 job. The Blackhawks upset division­because he relies on work Cloutier, the odd man out in champion Detroit in the first ethic," center Denis Savard Buffalo, is 7-1-1 with the round. Next, they rolled over said. "If you don't work, then Blackhawks -including a per­St. Louis, becoming the worst you are not going to play. fect 6-0-0 mark at Chicago regular-season team ever to That's what's been happening Stadium. make the final four under the here. If you're not working, "I think the team is playing current format. They even won you're not playing." well for me, and I'm doing a a game in Calgary before being Savard had his differences good job for them. It's a good ousted by the eventual Stanley with Keenan last season, nearly combination," said Cloutier, Cup champions. walking off the ice during one whose two shutouts with 
But the loss to the Flames practice and even stepping Chicago are one more than he may have been just a temporary down as captain. But he ex­had in parts of seven seasons setback. After winning only two celled during the playoffs and with the Sabres. of their first five games, the appears sold on the results of "When I first came here, I Blackhawks are No. 1 team in Keenan's system, even though knew they'd improved. I saw the NIII. in points (23) and vic­it's taken some of the panache them in the playoffs against tories ( 11) after the lirst month out of his play. Calgary. They've got some new of the season. "I think we believe in our­additions. The younger players 
Keenan, who came to the selves a lot more than we did are getting older. That's what Blackhawks after four success­last year. We're working you need to be successful." ful seasons with the harder. We're not making many But with five months still to Philadelphia Flyers, says last mistakes," Savard said. "It's a go, Keenan is trying to keep spring's success and this fall's lot of combinations, though. If expectations from getting too fast start are related. there is one thing I can pick out high, too soon. 
"There's no doubt in my that is different, it's the work mind, our season is a carry ethic. "We're not out of the woods. over from the playoffs. The "I know one thing: We're all We have a long way to go. It's players have a good feel for my going to bust our tails. not easy to lose bad habits. style of hockey, something that Confidence is a tremendous Confidence, intensity, a good was missing a year ago. But it's factor, and we've got it this work ethic comes from winning. understandable. year for the first time in the But you can't forget the little 
"I believe in playing disci­last three or four, maybe for things and you have to play as plined hockey, and it's a factor only the second or third time in a unit." 
NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS NOVEMBER 8 DEADLINES 
-MEN'S &WOMEN'S IH BASKETBALL ­GRAD BASKETBALL CLUB BASKETBALL IH HOCKEY WALLYBALL TURKEY SHOOT ­-WHO'S WHO IN HOOPS -FLAG FOOTBALL DRIVE FOR PARALYSIS 
IcALL NVA FOR MORE INFO 239-61001 
California and Arkansas. 
Michigan beat Purdue 42-27 to set up a Big Ten showdown at Illinois on Saturday. Illinois also improved its league record to S-0 by beating Iowa 31-7. 
Alabama remained unde­feated by beating Mississippi State 23-10, Florida State downed South Carolina 35-10, Miami overpowered East Carolina 40-10, Southern Cal defeated Oregon State 48-6 and Arkansas beat Rice 38-17. 
Tennessee, which was idle, went from No. 10 to No. 11. Rounding out the Second Ten are Auburn, Penn State, Pittsburgh, Houston, Texas A&M, Clemson, Virginia, West Virginia and Florida. 
Brigham Young is 21st, fol­lowed by North Carolina State, Texas Tech, Fresno State and Arizona. 
Virginia made the biggest jump, going from No. 24 to No. 18 with a 20-9 victory over North Carolina State. The loss dropped the Wolfpack from No. 18 to No. 22. 
Arizona and West Virginia took the biggest tumbles. West Virginia slipped from No. 13 to No. 19 after losing to Penn State 19-9 and Arizona dropped from No. 15 to No. 25 following a 29-28 loss to California. 
Texas Tech made its lirst ap­pearancn in the poll sinee 1977. moving to :'\o. 2~ aftpr hr>ntirw TPxas 24-1 ~. 
Devils fire Schoenfeld in favor of assistant 
EAST HUTHERFORD, N.J. cause of its inconsistent (AP) -Disturbed by the play. uneven play that recalled last season's struggles, the New "Them is no question that Jersey Devils fired Coach Jim 14 games is not thn snason," Schoenfeld on Monday and Lamoriello said. ''What we replaced him with assistant have to undnrstand is this is coach John Cunniff despite an 80-game schedule." the team's improved lie said the deeision was standing. madn after evaluating the 
Cunniff, who coached for team's play during the past the Hartford Whalers and year. Boston Bruins before joining the Devils in May. promised Lamoricllo criticized to inject emotion into the Schoenfdd's handling of his team's play. players throughout last 
"I would like to see the season. In the off-season, he team play with some kind of arranged a number of deals emotion and a little more to revive thP t!•am, bringing free will," the 44-year-old in SoviN Hed Army defensive Cunniff said during a star Viacheslav Fetisov and telephone conference call. his teammate Sergei "We will try to be more Starikov, as wnll former All­consistent.'' Stars Reijo Huotsalainen and 
Schoenfeld, 37, had Sylvain Turgeon. coached the Devils to the Stanley Cup semifinals two The team has played better seasons ago, but the team this season. particularly on dropped to 27-41-12 last the road, but Lamoriello said year and failed to make the he was disturbnd by uneven playoffs. performances. lie said the 
fact that htisov was not 
The Devils are 6-6-2 this starting this year was not a season and in second place factor. in the Patrick Division, seven points behind the New York "It's something that was Rangers. However, General not working at this point," Manager Lou Lamoriello the general manager said. said the club needed a "It was a dncision that had "change of direction" be-to be mad!' in my mind. 

"Doesn't every Pre-med deserve a choice?" 
Tom Garcia, M.D. WAG '75) Cardiologist Houston, Texas 
''The right choice was there when I needed it. I made that choice, and now I'm a physician. My alma mater may be just right for you. It's your choice." 

Universidad Aut6noma de Guadalajara School of Medicine 
Guadalajara, Mexico 
The International Choice 
For your free video preview call: 1-800-531-5494 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Japanese land 48 Dactyl's 
measure precursor
noon: "Owls and Doves: The Two Cultures Confront 
1 Preakness event 
Nuclear Arms Control" will be the topic of a Brown Bag 32 "Terrible" czar 51 Friendly
5 Dwellers near 
Luncheon Seminar presented by V. Paul Kenney, Professor the Baltic Sea 33 Bad score for 55 Grieve bitterly of Physics and Faculty Fellow of the Institute for Interna­10 Clinches, as a Nicklaus 58 Bank activity tional Peace Studies in Room 101 of the Law School. The victory 34 Pasture 59 Inflexible Brown Bag is sponsored by the Institute for International 14 Supt. of school's 35 Partake of 60 Actress Best Peace Studies. responsibility hospitality 61 Villad'­
15 Roman halls 
39 Contend 62 Badger16 Observe 
40 Zoo attraction 63 Actual 17 Live well 
41 A Gardner 
MENUS 20 Sponge 
42 Culbertson of 
21 Me. college DOWN
bridge tame 
Notre Dame town 
1 Trim a sail
43 Playing card 
22 Celebrity 2 Between Sheba! 
44 Leave the land 
BBQ Ribs 23 Soften and Nisan 
of Nod 
Baked Cajun Cod 25 Certain 3 Attractive Polynesian 46 Limit intake 
Hot Pastrami Sandwich 
4 Flight formations 
Vineyard Veg w/ Cheese 28 School--47 Gather, as a 
5 Shallow pond (rural teacher) storm 
6 A Vermont Allen 1 "... still by faith he-": V ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE LindsayM 
8"-Men," 1987 film
A 
9 What Miss Mullet did
T 
26 Benefit· 33 Author of "John 48 Soccer great 10 Sluggish
H 27 London Brown's Body" 49 Town or county
11 Type of salmon dockyard worker 36 Choice inN.M. 
12 Institution on the Thames 
28 Mazaa Senior 37 Foal's mother 50 "L'-c'est Tournament 
moi"1 13 Lily of Utah 
38 The Atlantic's 
winner: 1989 51 Seaver's first 
contents
0 18 Mother of 29 Lewis's baseball home 
Romulus 44 Secret
exploring 52 Presage1 partner 53 Type of moth 
45 Small dam 30 She fled on a 46 Stingless, 54 Catchall abbr. 
A public service message from The Observer 
golden ram feckless bee 56 Part of i.e. 31 Of a certain 47 Some South 57 Anagram of 56 25 Sifter grain Africans Down 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON GARY LARSON 
THE FAR SIDE 
AR£ 'iOV l>ll. RIG\I? 
I "roltl T\.IE. i'Ct>.C~tR I 1-W> W\\AI'S nl£ Mr...nt.R? 

TO GJ 1t) n\E BAniROOtll. WI-\~ ~RE '{0\J CN..LII{G ?' 
0\J\CK, W\.I~T'S II+7? 



WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 
NOW,(..a11'\ ,r "SIHD
E'f, I F't:E.L FIN€. 
r 1 1'1 F/Nf. NOW J"I)Sf IN FACT, I ... L.A-'f O~F OI-l THe t-JIC E'(, IJ /(€'( STUFF: 
Another great moment in evolution. 



• 

Sports 
Tuesday, November 7, 1989
page 16 

Irish easily take first place in Michigan St. Invitational 
By MIKE CANZONIERO The Irish buried the host Sports Writer team and favorite Michigan State. State scored 73.75 points 
The Notre Dame wrestling and was the runner-up in their team began their 1989-90 sea­own tournament. Last year son with an impressive start as State finished fourth. they captured the Michigan Senior Andy Radenbaugh State Invitational on Sunday, ( 118) took his second consecu­ringing up the second highest tive title and third of his career point total (1 02.5) in the his­for the Irish, winning his final tory of the tournament. match 9-3 against Robert 
Four ND wrestlers took home Symanns of Lake Superior individual championships and State. all ten finished in the top four "Andy Radenbaugh wrestled spots of the eight team tour­better than I have ever seen him nament. wrestle in a tournament. He 
Irish Coach Fran McCann, can sometimes be very tenta­who also eoached the 1980 tive, but this time he was taking Indiana State team that holds initiative and being very ag­the record for points in this gressive." said McCann. tournamPnt, was pleased with At 118 lbs Radenbaugh has th1~ performance of his 80 career victories and last wrestlers, but commented year compiled a 35-8 record, "there's still a lot of things we leading the Irish squad, need to work on." including a victory at the 
Michigan State Tournament. 
The team surpassed its sec­All-American Senior co-cap­ond place finish (78.25 points) 
tain Pat Boyd and sophomoreof last year and two wrestlers 
Marcus Gowens were never repeated as champions in a threatened in their first place 
tournament. The Irish had 
finishes at 142 and 126-jound · -•--­eight mombers returning from classes, respectively, and Junior 
. . . The Observer/Mike Moran 
last year's team, which finished 
Marc Gerardi wrapped up his lnsh sem_or Andy Radenbaugh was one of four lnsh wrestlers to win their weight divisions at the Michigan
behind Edinboro in the 1988 
first place finish with a :52 sec­State lnv1tat1onal ~ver the weekend. Notre Dame won the meet, its season opener. with the second highest
tournament. 
ond pin in his final bout. pomt total 1n the history of the tournament. · 
McCann feared his team was In his first collegiate compe­wrestle in the tournament for Koerber of Grand Valley State. lb. weight class. 
not in the shape they should be tition freshman Steve King NO, was the Minnesota state Placing third for the Irish The Fighting Irish are bat-in this year, but he was pleased (190) placed second, along with champion his undefeated senior was junior Todd Tomazik (158) tling again on November 18 at with the results. 
sophomore Tim Anderson (134) year and holds the Minnesota and sophomore Chuck Weaver. the St. Louis Open and wrestle "Any time you can score over and junior co-captain Todd state record with 119 career Sophomore Curt Engler wres-their first home meet on 100 points that is an impressive Layton (150). pins. King lost his 190 lb final tied a strong tournament plac-December 10 against Illinois accomplishment," said McCann. 
King, the only freshman to match 7-5 in overtime to Jim ing fourth in a very tough 177 State. 
Signups begin for charity tourney 
By CHRIS RLLIO a couple of reasons," said NVA will go to the Sugar Bowl. Sports Writer assistant director Sally Derengoski. "First, it's fun and 
Past tournaments have hadNon-Varsity Athletics is an opportunity to use the upwards of twenty to twenty­presently holding team sign-ups Loftus All-Sports Center for the five teams. The top eight teamsfor this year's "Flag Football entire weekend. And as a fund at the end of two days time willDrive to Cure Paralysis." Sign­raiser, a student body as active advance to the single elimina­ups will run through as what we have at Notre Dame tion tournament to decide theWednesday, November 8. seems appropriate for this type overall competition champions. 
of event." The round-robin flag football 
tournament is a In the 198 7-88 tournament,
part of na­250 participants at Notre
tionwide collegiate competition This year's tournament will Dame raised $6,375.43, thesponsored by the USF&G Sugar 
be played Friday, Saturday and 
second largest in the nation be­Bowl in conjunction with the 
Sunday, November 17-19, with 
hind Auburn's $8,500. OverMarc Buoniconti Fund. The lat­
a break on Saturday for partic­
$49,000
ter program was set up by Nick was raised that year
ipants to watch the Notre 
by 25 schools across the coun­Buoniconti, Marc's father and 
Dame-Penn State football
former Notre Dame football
• game. Each player per seven­try. 
player, following a paralyzing 
player team is asked to collect
accident which Marc suffered $25 in pledges. The team that "At a great football schoolwhile playing at The Citadel. 
raises the most money will win like Notre Dame, it's a natural 
Casio pocket TV's, while the na­for us to raise funds by playing "We're planning this event for tion's leading fund raising team football," said Derengoski. 
Howard trips Farley in IH shocker 
By RICHARD MATHURIN Sue Lippa set an Interhall ception 85 yards for the decid­Sports Writer record by catching a 97 yard ing score. touchdown pass to set the tone 
Junior running back Becky for the game. Lippa took the "Everybody did a great job ~ille.r scored from the two yard short pass near the line of and we had fun this season, lme m overtime giving Howard scrimmage and then proceeded even though we won't make the (6-1) an upset win over previ­to scamper 90 plus yards for play-offs," said Knott captain ously unbeaten Farley (6-1). the score. Bridget Maley. T~e. touchdown was set up by a 
cnhcal penalty on Farley near In other games, Breen Phillips 
Quarterback Lynn Arnold
the goal line. won due to a forfeit on the part
added a quarterback sneak set 
of Pasquerilla East and the 
up by a 35 yard run by Colleen 
"Our defense did a great job game between Badin and Walsh 
Danaher to provide the margin
it's the key to our game," said' was called because of lightning. 
of victory. 
Howard captain Kelly The semi-final play-offs are 
Kolodziej. 
set for next Sunday with Lewis In a game with no play-off meeting favorite Breen Phillips Defending champion Lewis implications, Knott (2-5) de­and Farley taking on Howard. 
geared up for next week's semi­feated Siegfried (3-4) 6-0 in a The two winners will meet in final with a 14-0 trouncing over defensive· battle. Freshman Notre Dame Stadium to decide Pasquerilla West. Wide Receiver Sonia Miller returned an inter-the championship. 
Sailing Club delivers in pressure situation 
Two weekends ago, Sailing Club president Paige Cooper thought she was done sailing for the regular sea­son. She had just competed in the Last Blast Regatta at the University of Wisconsin, a singles event, and taken home an impressive 3rd place in the 

field of 33. 
However, when fellow skipper Lisa Mike Fox took ill before this weekends Area Eliminations, Cooper had to step in Kamradt and sail. She and the rest of the Club Corner sailing team came up big as the team finished 3rd in the Regatta and earned a birth in the MCSA (Midwestern Collegiate Sailing Association) Championships the weekend after Thanksgiving at the Chicago Yacht Club. 
The Irish faced tough competition in teams from Michigan, Michigan St., and Western Michigan. These three team were the main competitors, but Purdue, Ohio St., and Ohio Wesleyan also sailed in the event to make things even more difficult for Notre Dame. The Irish sailed well though, and finished only behind Michigan St. and Western Michigan. Powerhouse Michigan finished fourth and did not advance to the MCSA championships for the first time in over 30 years. 
" They were really disappointed," commented Cooper. "They even came up to us after the race and asked us if we even wanted to go the Championships." 
Nice try, Michigan, but the Irish earned it. Not even the arctic like weather conditions with wind chills as low as 8 degrees could slow down Notre Dame. The Irish took a risk with the lineups they used in the regatta. Paige Cooper, who had sailed A division all year took command of the B boat while Patti Loesinski moved up to captain the A boat. 
"It was a big gamble, but it paid off," saii.l Cooper. "We were hoping that I could win B division and that Patti would hold her own in the A division." 
Loesinski more than held her own as her boat with Liz Beckley as her crew finished 4th. Cooper and her crew, Moira Sullivan, were able to win the B division as was hoped. The combined point totals were enough to edge out the Wolverines for 3rd. 
see SAILING I page 11 


