./ y 

VOL. XXII, N0.124 FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Cause of ship blast is studied 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Red-hot debris may have ignited the blast that killed 47 sailors on the USS Iowa, Navy officers said Thursday. 
The bodies of the deceased were flown home and families of the battles­hip's 1,600 crewmen learned if their relatives were among the dead. 
No eyewitnesses survived Wednes­day's explosion in one of two forward 16-inch gun turrets on the Iowa, one of the largest warships ever to sail the seas. 
The Navy organized a board of in­quiry and placed a moratorium on firing 16-inch guns, found only on the Iowa and its three sister battleships, the New Jersey, the Wisconsin and the Missouri. 
Pentagon officials declined to spec­ulate publicly about the exact cause of the disaster, the worst to strike a Navy ship since 1977, but officers said the 
"logical explanation" was that red-hot TOP: The battleship USS Iowa under way Wednesday after a debris from a previous round ignited gun turret packed with gunpowder exploded, killing at least 47 new charges as they were loaded into sailors during exercises about 330 miles northeast of Puerto Rico. The ship is expected to arrive at Roosevelt Roads Navy base in see IOWA I page 6 Puerto Rico Thursday morning. The explosion and fire took place 

Prof. Danehy back after illness 
By JOHN ZALLER 
Staff Reporter 
Professor Emeritus James Danehy is back at work after his heart stopped for almost six minutes last September 
"I'm in good health and gradually getting my strength back," said Danehy, who will turn 77 next week. 
Danehy collapsed at the wheel of his car on Septem­ber 14, 1988, after his heart stopped. He then underwent eight weeks of hospital care and has been away from his office for seven months. 

The 1933 Notre Dame graduate has lessened his work load and is increasing his strength and health dai­ly. Each day he walks "al­most two miles as fast as I can." 
Danehy has been actively involved in the community in the past. 
He contributed as a volun­teer in many areas around the city along with a weekly radio show on WSND. "Hopefully; some day I'll get back to those things,'' said Danehy. 
Danehy said he did not ex­perience any type of out of body experience that is often thought to occur during the first stages of death. 


Chinese protest continues 
Associated Press 
BEIJING-About 1,500 stu­dents braved a daylong downpour and marched for democracy in the capital Thursday, and authorities threatened harsh measures to crush four days of dissent. 
About 1,000 students marched in the central Chinese city of Nanjing, and students in Tianjin, a port city east of Beijing, plastered posters on walls. Other marches were re­ported in Shanghai, Wuhan and Hefei, but details were sketchy. 
Nationally televised news led with a stern warning that the protests, the biggest since the pro-democracy demonstra­tions of 1986-87, would no longer be tolerated. 
"These activities have gone beyond the limits of the law and the taking of harsh measures to end the disturbances has be­come necessary," the announ­cer said, quoting from an edi­torial ~ the official Xinhua News Agency. 
"These protesters do not really care about the future or happiness of China, all they want to do is overthrow the Communist Party and the gov­ernment," the editorial said. 
The protests were prompted by the death Saturday of Hu Yaobang, an outspoken reformer who was ousted as Communist Party chief in 1987. Hu was accused of encouraging liberal ideas and failing to crack down on the 1986-87 stu­dent demonstrators. 
The Beijing city government issued • regulations that restricted commemoration ac­tivities for Hu to inside univer­
sities,  businesses  and  fac­ 
tories.  
The  regulations  also  said  

"rioters and other.J.awbreakers would be dealt with severely, according to the law." 
Early Thursday, thousands of security forces rushed into crowds of students as they protested near the headquarters of the ruling Communist Party. 
Student organizers said se­curity forces beat more than 200 students, injuring about 40. Between 40 and 50 were ar­rested, they said. 
There was no official report on the arr~sts or injuries, but Associated Press reporters witnessed several beatings and detainments. 
Thursday afternoon, stu­dents from several universities marched for hours under heavy rain to Tiananmen Square, the symbolic center of Chinese po­litical life. 
In the evening, they rallied around the huge obelisk com­memorating China's revolu­
see PROTEST I page 6 
Babbitt addresses geology convention 
By RON SEVERINO 
Staff Reporter 

Bruce Babbitt, former gover­nor of Arizona, said in an ad­dress hosted by the Notre Dame Department of Earth Sciences that America is drift­ing into a state of complacency and is in need of some purpose or direction. 
The address, held Thursday in the Monogram Room of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, was part of the 23rd An­nual Meeting of the North­Central Section of the Geologi­cal Society of America. 
• Geology meeting I page 4 
Babbitt earned a degree in geology from Notre Dame in 1960 and a masters degree in paleomagnetism from the Uni­versity of Durham, England. 
He then decided to change his career goal to public service and graduated from Harvard Law School before going to work in the government of his home state, Arizona. 
Although Babbitt spoke on his current vocation of govern­ment, he said, "I still look back fondly on my days as a geologist." 
Babbitt was in the running for the Democratic nomination in last year's presidential race. "We'te now seeing the effects of a campaign that never caught the eye of the American public." 

Bruce Babbitt 

Babbitt stated there are three issues America must ad­dress before it achieves a "sense of purpose or direc­tion." 
The first of these issues is et­hics, according to Babbitt. He cited former Sen. John Tower and House Speaker Jim Wright as examples of the need to in­still a new code of ethics in gov­ernment. 
The second issue is social progress, said Babbitt. "We have a responsibility to try new social programs, even though some programs are bound to fail," said Babbitt. 
Babbitt concluded his ad­dress saying the third problem America must face is the "war between the demands of the present and the needs of the fu­ture." He said the national debt shows that leaders of today are in a "spend today" frame of mind. "We must invest in the future in the form of educa­tion," Babbitt suggested. 
Friday, April 21, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
WORLD BRIEFS 

Hit or 'near miss': Afghan guerrillas fired a rocket into the Soviet Embassy in Kabul on Thursday, shattering windows of an administration building but causing no casualties. Soviet diplomats said the 


something to consider
rocket was fired from about 20 miles northwest of .the capital. 
The United States closed its embassy in Kabul before Soviet troops completed their withdrawal Feb. 15. Since then, Moslem insurgents have attacked Kabul intermittently but have concen­trated their attack on the eastern city of Jalalabad. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

An asteroid big enough to wipe out cities whizzed past the Earth last month before astronomers even knew it was there, showing how hard it is to forecast a natural di~ast~r from space, a NASA scientist said Thursday. The mount~un-s1zed as­teroid flashed by the Earth at a speed of 46,000 miles an hour and was not even detected until days after it had become a receding point of light, NASA announced. Astronomers reported that the object missed the Earth by a half million mil~s-about twice the distance between the Earth and moon. In cosm1c terms, this is considered "a close call." Had it hit the Earth, said Bevan French a scientist in NASA's solar system exploration division, the ast~roid would have created a crater the size of the District of Columbia and spread destruction for 100 miles in all directions. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

Two Indiana sailors were killed in the explosion and fire that ripped through a gun turret on the USS Iowa. Scott A. Holt, 20, of Terre Haute and Darin Ogden, 24, of rural Shelbyville were killed Wednesday aboard the battleship in the worst Navy dis­aster in more than a decade, family members said. Holt had telephoned his grandparents, Keith and June Woodsmall of Riley, last week, just before the Iowa set sail for a training exercise. "He said they were going to leave port tomorrow morning and go down to Puerto Rico and shoot the big guns," said Mrs. Woodsmall. 
A 300-year old map of Paris may bring as much as $10 million to the Indianapolis man who paid $3 for It in a junk shop. A prospective buyer from Denver sent word Thursday that he would pay Edward Jones whatever price is set by Christie's, the New York auction house, and Frederick L. Bein, geography de­partment head at Indiana University-Purdue University at In­dianapolis. Bein, however, said he couldn't place a value on the nine-piece, 4-by-5-foot map, but would be willing to explain its historical significance to Christie's. "What it's worth is whatever a buyer is willing to pay for it," said Bein, who has researched the map. "I have no idea what it's worth. I'm not an art dealer; I'm a professor." The buyer had originally offered $10 million for the map, one of several copies believed commissioned by King Louis XIV in 1671. 
Taking out the trash in Columbia City has become a little more complicated in some neighborhoods, but organizers of a pilot curbside recycling program say the extra effort will pay off. About 160 homeowners in two subdivisions have agreed to participate in the project, which could evolve into a countywide service if it proves successful. For the next six weeks, volunteers will collect recyclable materials that have been separated and set out on the curb. The driveway-to-driveway effort will accept plastic, glass, metal, paper, batteries and motor oil. Non­recyclable trash is left behind for the regular trash haulers to take to the area landfill. 
WEATHER 


Cloudiness comes Considerably cloudy today with a 30 percent chance of morning showers. Highs from 60 to 65. Partly cloudy tonight with lows near 45. Partly cloudy Satur­day, highs from 60 to 65. 
ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On April 21: 

Cloelnge for Tllur8., April1e, 1!Nie e In 753 B.C.: According to legend, Rome was founded. 

Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 

e In 1649: The Maryland 
Toleration Act, which provided for 
-9.53

freedom of worship for all Christians, 
Closed at 2377.38 

was passed by the Maryland assembly. e In 1836: An army of Texans 
S&P 500 ~o.9sto306.19 
led by Sam Houston defeated the Mexicans at San Jacinto, assuring the independence of Texas. 
Currency exchange e In 1972: Apollo 16 astronauts 
Mark ..(} .0145 to 1.8478 DM I$ 
John Young and Charles Duke ex­plored the surface of the moon. 
Yen .i). 0.28 to 132.43 ¥1$ e In 1984: The head of the Cen­ters for Disease Control said he believed 
Precious Metals 

a virus discovered in France was the cause of the disease AIDS. 
Gold i). $2.20 to $389.30 1oz. e Ten Years Ago: A federal 
Sllver.O. 2.2¢ to $5.7871 oz. 
report estimated that 14% of all meat and poultry products tested over a tw(}­year period contained illegal and p(}­tentially harmful residues. 
lniormal•on comp1led trom Observer w>res and Observer stall reports 
Just when you thought we had enough on this tiny planet to worry about, something cosmic happens. 
An asteroid large enough to wipe out New York City and part of Long Island passed as close to Earth on March 23 as any in more than a century, the Wall Street Journal reported yes­terday. 
The Journal learned of this "near miss" from NASA, which was tipped off by astrogeologist Henry Holt at Northern Arizona University. 
How near is near? In this case, the asteroid passed within 450,000 miles of Earth, about twice the distance to the moon. That's a long way by terrestrial standards, but cosmically it was a close call. 
It's nice to know NASA is keeping an eye on these things. Too bad, however, that it dis­covered this "near miss" on March 31, eight days after the asteroid would have made quite a hit (pardon the pun) with the denizens of some hapless metropolis. 
A planetary scientist at NASA said the as­teroid was about a half-mile across and travel­ing 46,000 per hour. He estimated if the asteroid had hit Earth it would have made a crater five to 10 miles across and leveled buildings up to 100 miles away. 
That's quite a wallop. 
Imagine what might have happened if the asteroid landed on a major city such as New York or Chicago. Millions of lives snuffed out by an errant rock from outer space. It's the kind of thing you'd expect to read in a super­market tabloid. 
What makes an incident like this even scarier, according to Holt, is there is no way to tell if an asteroid will hit Earth until it's too late be­cause it would appear as a stationary object in the sky. 
This also applies for little asteroids (a few yards wide), which are too small for even pow­erful telescopes to detect. The impact from an asteroid that size would be comparable to the force of the Hiroshima bomb, a NASA scientist said. 
OF INTEREST 
Former Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Chairman James Miller, scheduled to address a symposium on the FTC May 1 at the University will not appear due to a conflicting commitment overseas. 
SummerServiceProjectsarestillavailable to students interested in working eight weeks in return for a $1200 tuition scholarship. If in­terested see Sue Cunningham at the Center for Social Concerns or cal 239-7867. 
Attention Club&Organizations: Today is the last day to receive club funds for the 1988-89 school year. All requests must be ac­companied by receipts of the expenditure as well as a letter of approval from your advisor. Questions call 239-7417 between 12-4 p.m. 
Iceberg Debates Chairperson and standing committee members are being selec­ted for the 1989-90 academic year. All those in­terested in organizing the 2nd annual campus­wide debates should contact Joe McKenna at 127 Sorin Hall before Monday the 24th. 
PeaceCorpInternship:students interested in Peace Corp "Going Global" overseas intern­ships will meet today at the Center for Social Concerns at 4 p.m. 


Typesetters .•.. ..•.••••••••.••••••..••• Molly Schwartz 
. ........... Gilbert Gomez News Editor ................................ Sara Marley Copy Editor............................... John O"Brien 
Sports Copy Editor................... Frank Pastor 
VIewpoint Copy Editor ....•...• Janice O"Leary 
Anletant VIewpoint Editor •.••• Kevin Reisch

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
VIewpoint Layout ············-·-····· Dave Brunf!f 
Accent Editor .................•....• Robyn Simmons 

(219) 239-7471 
Accent Copy Editor ................... Missy Irving Accent Designer............................ Tim Irvine Accent O..lgn Anlatant.. ....... Brian Grunert 
Typleta ······-··········-······················ Sue Barton 
.....•••••........••••.•...........•..•.••......•••.... Rosi Lozada

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vaca110n periods. The Observer IS pubhshed by students ot the 
NO Day Editor··················-···... Betsy Mennetl SMC Day Edhor •..•..•..••.••.•.•..••• Alissa Murphy

Un1vers1ty ot Notre Dame and Satnt Mary"s College Subscnptions may be pur· Ade OHignere ················-····..···•·· Val Poleltochased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. 
. ......•....•.............................••.......... Mindy Breen The Observer IS a member of The AssoCiated Press All reproduct10n nghls ....•..................•......................•..... Meg Callahan are reserved .......•...............•.•...........••......•........ Maria Blohm lrtah Ertrl Editor..................... Theresa Kelly 
'An errant rock from outer space. It's the kind of thing you'd expect to read in a supermarket tabloid.' 
Regis Coccia 
Managing Editor 

The specter of a relatively small object from 
space causing such tremendous damage is 
frigh~ning, compounded by the fact that as­
teroitl's have no set agenda. One could strike, 
or just pass by, at any time. 
Most people don't think about such things. 
We're preoccupied with thoughts of nuclear war 
and the mass destruction brought on by our 
fellow earthlings. 
We tend to think in terms of megatons when 
we visualize mass destruction. A one megaton 
atomic bomb has the explosive power of one 
million tons of dynamite, enough to destroy 
everything within 30 miles of it and create bi­
ological havoc for most living things for miles 
outside that. 
Let's not hide behind probabilities, but stop 
to consider the possibility of something beyond 
our control destroying everything human his­
tory has achieved. 
The Earth's scientists should get together and "think about such things once in a while. Pon­dering how a catastrophe could happen is far better than wondering why one did happen. 
We have the technology to send men to the moon and bring them back, land spacecraft on Mars, launch long-distance orbiters to Jupiter and Saturn. But we can't stop a potentially deadly asteroid. 
It's sort of ironic, though, to think that a "big bang" which may have created the universe might end it all. 
College of Science Dean's Run will be held Sunday April 30th at 11 a.m. The race is 7 km long (twice around the lakes). T -shirts given to all participants for $4 fee. Sign up in College of Science's Dean's office, 2nd floor Nieuwland Science Hall. 
NDE Participants please bring ID numbers to the Campus Ministry office in Badin Hall no later than April25 for the end of the year picnic, to be held on April 30 at 4 p.m. at the Fatima Retreat Center. 
"Mommie Dearest" will be held at the Snite Museum today at 2 p.m. Staff Assistant Brenda Madden will give an hour talk on the current "Hollywood Glamour" exhibit. She will also roleplay Joan Crawford, who is featured in the exhibition. Limit 50, in the Print and Photo Gallery. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. -The Observer 
Delllgn Editor....................... Mark Mclaughlin 

Friday, April 21, 1989 
U.S. officer shot, killed in Philippines 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines-Gun­men killed an American mili­tary officer and Vietnam War hero Friday as he was driving to work at the Joint U.S. Mili­tary Advisory Group headquarters, U.S. and Filipino officials said. 
U.S. embassy spokesman Jerry Huebel said Army Col. James Rowe, 51, of McAllen, Texas, was pronounced dead on arrival at a Philippine mil­itary hospital and his body was flown to Clark Air Base, 50 miles north of Manila. 
Col. Victor Tiangco of the Philippine military's Capital Region Command said Rowe was chief of the army division at the Joint U.S. Military Advi­sory Group. He said Rowe's chauffeur was wounded in the shooting and was in serious condition. 
Tiangco said the assailants opened fire with M-16 rifles as the victim's car approached the group compound in subur­ban Quezon City about 7: 10 
a.m. Tiangco said 21 bullets struck the car. 
He said the assailants sped away. Witnesses said the vic­tim's car was able to reach the compound, about two blocks from the shooting. 
Toto Austria, a cashier at a gasoline station, said he heard shots and turned to see a white car pull alongside the victim's silver-gray vehicle with tinted windows. · 
As the cars turned right along a traffic circle, Austria said he saw one M-16 rifle ex­tending from the window and 
firing at the other vehicle. 

Julie Flemming 
Remember when... ? 

We Love You! Linda, Bridget &Mruy 

Don't miss this golden opportunity to save on a Balfour College Class Ring! • $30{)}.,F lOK • $50 0FF 14K • $700FF 18K Hurry! Offered for a 
The Observer page 3 

The Observer I Gerard Watson

Familiar face 
Notre Dame alumnus and 1987 Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown returns to campus to watch Bookstore powerhouse Adworks All Stars play a game. Brown's former teammate, Tony Rice is a member of Adworks. 




North trial jury dispatched 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-The jury in Oliver North's Iran-Contra trial was dispatched Thursday to decide the guilt or innocence of the former White House aide with the judge's admonition that no one, including the pres­ident, had "the legal authority to order anyone to violate the law." 
North has said he had author­ity from superiors including, he believed, President Reagan, for many of his actions in be­half of the Nicaraguan rebels at a time when official U.S. aid was banned. 
Because of the lateness of the hour, jurors were sent to the nearby hotel where they will be sequestered, and ordered to begin deliberations on Friday. 
U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell told them "your job is to decide the facts" in the first trial stemming from the mid­1980s affair in which profits from arms sales to Iran were diverted to aid the Nicaraguan rebels. 
The judge was specific in his instruction about North's con­tention that he acted under or­ders from top White House of­ficials and, he assumed, with Reagan's approval. 
"Neither the president nor 
Happy 19th Birthday Frank Barletta Keenan Hall 
We love you, Dad, Mom, Beth, Carmen, Allison and Linda April 21st 

STUDENTS SAVE 
10% 

AND Lars OF TIME­Let us pack and ship your belongings back home for the summer, or to wherever your new career leads vou! 
NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALL! 
any of the defendant's super­iors had the legal authority to order anyone to violate the law," Gesell said. 
"Our country is governed by the rule of law. You have heard testimony indicating that other government officials may in some respects have concealed facts known to them, and some ranking above or below the defendant may have engaged in conduct similar to that charged against the defendant on trial." 
But, he said, the conduct of 
others was no justification for 
North's conduct and "you are 
not to judge defendant's guilt 
or innocence based solely on 
the actions of others." 

The judge's charge was 
delayed for a half day by a 
problem involving jurors who 
may have given misleading 
answers in pre-trial question­
ing. When he convened court in 
the afternoon, Gesell said he 
had denied a North motion for 
a mistrial, filed on grounds that 
"the jury had been infected by 
publicity about some of its 
members." 

The five alternates were dis­missed after Gesell gave the in­structions and were driven home individually by U.S. mar­shals. 
Gesell said North's defense that he was authorized to cover up his secret Contra role may be considered, but under closely defined circumstances. 



FREE 

TANNING 

limited time only! 
See your Balfour Representative 
Monday, April 24th or May 1st 11 :00-4:30pm at Haggar College Center game room 
Special Graduation Week Friday, May 19 12-4 in the Game Room 
872-0346 





==8LlXE5fLll5== 
SHIPPiNG + PACKING + CRATING 
MOVING & S10HAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PLEASE PRESENT THIS 
COUPON AT THE TIME OF 
• 
PURCHASE OR SHIPPING 
M-F 9AM·7PM SAT 10AM·5:30PII.' 

!v,~l-277-5555 SUN NOON-5:30PM 
Between T.J. Maxx and Venture 
I.Buy 4 * ~sion~t the regula71I price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 I Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA? I 
~-----------J
Mishawaka  
Indian Ridge Plaza  
(Next to Venture)  Hours: Daily 9-8  
Sat. 9-6  
Sun. 11-5  



Deposit Required 
5818 GRAPE RD • INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA • MISHAWAKA 
The Observer

Geologists hold annual chapter meeting at N.D. for first time 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame will continue to play host today to 400 to 500 geologists and geophysicists as the 23rd Annual Meeting of the North-Central Section of the Geological Society of America
1 enters its third day. 
\ This year will be the first
l 
year that Notre Dame has 
hosted the annual meeting, 
said James Rigert, associate 
professor of earth sciences and 
vice-chairman of the meeting. 
"The Section is part of a very large organization with 4,000 to 5,000 members across the country," said Rigert. He added that the country is divided into 5 sections, each of which holds an annual meeting. 
"The meeting will consist of several talks and symposia as well as various poster presen­tations," Rigert said. 
The meeting is held annually at a different college or univer­sity in the North-Central Sec­tion. Minnesota, Illinois, Ohio, Michigan and Indiana are all part of the North-Central Sec­tion. 
Members from other states are also attending the meeting, said Rigert. 
The meeting began on Wed­nesday with a field trip to Kentland, Ind. The trip was of­fered by Attila Aydin of Purdue University and Gary Pavlis of Indiana University. Approxi­mately 60 people examined the Kentland Structural Anomaly. 
It was followed by another field trip hosted by Ned Bleuer of the Indiana Geological Sur­vey in Bloomington and Wilton Melhorn of Purdue University. The group travelled to North­Central Indiana to examine glacial geology. 
The actual lectures began Thursday and consisted of 8 spoken presentations and 2 pos­ter displays. 
Speakers included professors and scholars from throughout the Section and also several members of Notre Dame's earth science department. 
Bruce Babbitt, former Arizona governor and Demo­cratic presidential candidate addressed the participants at the annual banquet which was held last night at the Joyce Ath­letic and Convocation Center. 
Babbitt earned an under­gaduate degree in geology . from Notre Dame in 1960 and a master's degree in paleomag­nitism from King's College, University of Durham, En­gland, where he was awarded a Marshall Fellowship for graduate studies. 
Today's activities will con­sist of 10 spoken lectures and 2 poster presentations. 
According to Rigert, a field trip to Lake Michigan will be held Saturday in order to ex­amine lakefront geology. 
Wright accuses committee of delay 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-House Speaker Jim Wright accused the ethics committee of drag­ging its feet on the allegations against him Thursday, while the Republican leader who brought the charges in the first place suggested Democrats will try to nudge Wright aside before his case can reach the full House. 
"I would be very surprised if the senior members of the Democratic leadership don't try to talk the speaker into step­ping down before going through the agony of a public defense, public cross examination," said Rep. Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the GOP whip. 
Gingrich said he still believes that Rep. Thomas Foley of Washington, now the majority leader, will be speaker before the end of June .. 
Meanwhile, published reports indicated that a Texas oil deal which brought a huge profit to Wright last year in­volved businessmen with an in­terest in a $3 billion Air Force jet trainer program now being 
: SENIORS :




: ••••.•••. : 
• What's up for Senior Month? • : Well, pick up your Senior Month Booklet: e in the Senior Class Office, 2nd Floor • e of LaFortu!1e or maggar Center at SMC e : to get all of the details. :

: ••...•.•.•..•••.. : 
: THIS IS A MONTH : : TO REMEMBER! : : BE A SENIOR, : : DON'T MISS ANY EVENT! : 
lfaooklets will also be available : : at Senior Formal) : 
studied by Congress. 
On Capitol Hill, Wright said "we've met all the require­ments" to move to the next phase of the case, in which the Texas Democrat wants to con­front his accusers personally and try to knock down the 69 formal allegations issued by the ethics committee on Mon­day. 
The speaker particularly blamed special outside counsel Richard Phelan for what he termed the delay. "I'm puzzled as to why he is dragging his feet," Wright told a reporter. "We're very anxious to have the matter resolved as soon as possible." 
"It's a little bit distracting that I write letters to the chair­man and ranking minority member of the committee and get a reply from Mr. Phelan, and it's always some foot drag­ging," Wright said. "I'm anx­ious to let them ask me ques­tions. I am certain the charges can be answered emphatically and absolutely." 
A Wright supporter, Rep. Charles Wilson (D-Texas), ac­cused Phelan of leaving the speaker to be battered in the news media. 
Meanwhile, two panel mem­bers were scheduled to go to Texas next week as part of the committee's continuing inves­tigation into an oil well deal called the Sabine Lake prospect. Mallightco, the in­vestment company owned by Wright and his business partner George Mallick, bought a 4 percent interest in the well for an initial payment 
of $9,120 on May 10, 1988. 

The Observer 
, Congratulations to the 1988-89 members of 
I 
' 

Beta Gamma Sigma 
David ,Juniors 
Mary David Alexander 
John 

John Baumer Kathyrn 
Scott Brachmann Helen 
Liam Canny Todd 
Timothy Dillane 
Thomas Gary Freeman 
M.Daniel Brian Gallagher Patricia Richard Granger 
Thomas Michael Henn 
Terence Norman Kurtis 
Ian Edward Pelican 
Patrick David Pilarski Chery! John Roache 
Paul Linda Romero 
James 

Donald Sharp Michael Karen Sharpe Mark l\1ichelle Soper Adrier.ne Thomas Tomasula 
Beth George Travers Charles Maureen Tunell 
Leo Michael Werstine 
Michael Richard Westen berger Carter Seniors Todd Susan Bardi Karunia Theresa Barnhart Richard Alice Barry Peter Gregory Bevelock William John Carroll MRA's l\lichael Chalmers 
Rashid Michad Collins 
Peter William Connolly Mark Julia Dale 
Michael
' 

Friday, April 21, 1989 
,;,j;~~-;~~---~ :::··
1::. . ~· •

_.-.--':""' 
.·...· 

The Observer I Gerard Watson
Class al fresco 
Many classes ventured outside during Thursday's sunny afternoon. Students donned shorts for the summerlike weather and forgot the 
snow that fell just two days earlier. 

Smith~

[Storage 
VISA-MC U-HAUL 

Boxes, Tape, etc. 
Small Residential Sizes To Large Commercial FENCED & LIGHTED 
0 lt·MAIIT 
N 

i 
OHT ARlO RO.
WE ARE LOCATED 

'-f--..:-­
'h lliiL£ SOUTH OF K-MART 
SAME SlOE OF HIGHWAY 
$. U.S. 33 :::
3001




684-4880 
NILES, MI. s~;~:~~s ~ SPECIAL STUDENT RATES 
f'·~~ 

·~ 
STATEUHERO. 
~;!~~~r~ 
" 
The National Honor Society for students in the College of Business
I'K
L 

DeVoe Joseph DeLuca Dougherty Curtis Detjen Eilers Ramon Fabrega Fitzgerald Harold Gorenz Gilboy Gretchen Grieb Hardiman· Jeffrey Jensen Howard Pamela Krauser Janick Marie LaPorte Kase Christopher Malone Kuecks Matthew Maloney Lally Thomas Mazur Larkin Colleen McElroy Lawlis Jeffrey McGowan Lee van · Dennis McSweeney Minar Vladimir Mendoza Mohan Jodi Rummel hart Mojica Robc11 Smriga Monile Chris Thornton Quill Richard Titsworth Rosa Mark Winnubst Sacher Robert Zick Saenger Ex~cut ive MBA's Sftuster Ravindran Aachangkolakkarai Thomas Joseph Anderson 
Tilton Jack Conlan Tjuradi Evelyn Dalm Toner 
Richard Faber Verdi Peter Garvey Wolf James Harkleroad 
Michael Place Akhtar John Purser Bedell Nancy Sheehy Buzzell Rodney Si111111S Collins Beth Whiuccl 
~ 
Friday, April 21 , 1989 

The Observer page 5 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents The Power and the Glory by Dennjs Cannan and Pierre Bost Adapted frfffu the novel by Graham Greene 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Setting and Lighting designed by Willard Neuer! Costumes designed by Richard E. Donnelly 
Washington Hall 

Wednesday, April19-8:10pm Thursday, April 20-8:10pm Friday, Apri121 .:.. 8:10pm Saturday, April22-8:10pm Sunday, April23-3:10pm 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 *Students/Senior Citizens $4 *(Wed., Thurs., Sun. only) 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office Weekdays, 12:15pm to 6pm 
MasterCard/Visa orders call239-5957 

Hundreds pack Hitler's birthplace 
Associated Press 
BRAUNAU, Austria-Riot troops ringed the house where Adolf Hitler was born and police said they arrested eight people Thursday for marking the 100th anniversary of the dictator's birth with Nazi slogans and stiff-armed salutes. 
Hundreds of police swarmed this city of 17,000 people to prevent a repeat of the 1979 clashes between neo-Nazis and leftists that marked Hitler's 90th birthday. No serious inci­dents were reported. 
Across the border in West Germany, foreigners closed their stores and kept children out of schools because of fears of neo-Nazi violence. Several members of anti-Nazi vigilante groups were arrested for car­rying weapons. 
Security was heaviest here, at the two-story yellow house where Hitler was born on April 20, 1889. The house, a former inn now used as a day-care cen­ter for handicapped children, was sealed off with metal bar­riers manned by dozens of police and special riot squads with dogs. 
About 50 to 100 onlookers stood nearby. Nearly all shops along the street were closed, some barricaded with wooden boards. 
Police said unspecified num­bers of people were being turned back at the border by West German or Austrian bor­der police. 
A police spokesman said two Austrians, three Italians, two West Germans and an Ameri­can were arrested and face fines of up to $2,300 for their public behavior. 
The Italians, one Austrian and the American gave the Nazi salute, said a police offi­cial who did not give his name. One West German was ar­rested after he shouted Nazi slogans and spat at reporters. Police said he was carrying a large knife. 
Another West German also shouted anti-Semitic slogans, including "Jew, go and rot!" and "This will be a national holiday in 100 years' time!" 
Shell-shocked Lebanese emerge cautiously after 42 days of fighting 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Shel­lshocked residents emerged cautiously from bunkers Thursday during an uncertain lull to face shortages of water, bread and electricity after 42 days of bombardments by rival Christian and Moslem forces. 
The guns and rocket launchers, which by police count have fired more than 100,000 projectiles since March 8, were mostly silent. Oc­casional salvos kept people on edge. 
"We'll be lucky if this lull persists and we manage to get some sleep," said grocer Yous­sef Aridi as he closed his store in Moslem west Beirut after opening it briefly to sell what few goods he had left. 
The latest spasm of shelling, which began at dusk Saturday, inexplicably slackened late Wednesday. 

CAPT GAGLIO 
219·239-6634 
TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL POSITIONS 
Indianapolis manufacturer may be hiring temporary production employees for the summer session. Hourly wage will be $7.50. Positions will require shift work and overtime. 
To apply, please call 1-800-438-0041 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN 
The quiet followed a cease­
fire call Tuesday from 23 Chr­
istian Parliament deputies. 
But Gen. Michel Aoun, whose 
mainly Christian army forces 
have been battling an alliance 
of Syrian troops and Moslem 
Druse militiamen, rejected 
that call. 

The leftist As-Safir daily 
termed the lull a "half-truce." 
The Christian Lebanese Broad­
casting Corp. called it "an am­
bigious cease-fire." 

Whatever the reason for it, 
the break gave people a chance 
to get out of the shelters in 
which they've been cooped up, 
check their homes and busi­
nesses for damage and buy 
what food and supplies were 
available. 

A police spokesman, who cannot be named under stand­ing regulations, said it was a double-edged sword. 
"It's good to give the people a breather so they can get some sleep. But it's risky as well be­cause people might get used to it and forget the dangers of renewed shelling. That's when you get heavy casualties," he said. 
By police count, at least 270 people have been killed and nearly 1,000 wounded since March 8. 
Among them was Spanish Ambassador Pedro Manuel de Arestigui, killed when a shell hit his house in east Beirut on Sunday. His body was flown Thursday to Madrid. 
The shelling duels, some of the heaviest in Lebanon's 14­year-old civil war, erupted after Aoun blockaded Moslem militia-run ports. 

And 

FULLY FURNISHED 
EXECUTIVE SUITES 
ELEGANT & SPACIQUS 1 , 2 and 3 bedroom apartments 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame Campus 

1671 Riverside Dr. @ CALL 233-2212 ~ 


~~pa~gLe~6------------------------------------------------T~h~e~O~b=se~N~e~r________________________________________F_n_·d~ay~·-A~p_n_l2_1~,_1_98_9



Rocco's Hair Styling 

531 rt.Michigan St. Phone 233-4957 

wind and rain howled about them.

Protest 
continued from page 1 

Student speakers said they tionary heroes, now draped were demanding that officially with eulogies and portraits of controlled student unions at Hu. their schools be disbanded and "The blood of our classmates replaced with democratic or­
will not be shed in vain," said ganizations. 
one student leader. "Since the 
time of the first emperor 2,000 The student demands formu­
years ago China has been living lated Monday include free 
under a dictatorship. It is time speech, a free press, more 
for this to end." money for education and dis­Students huddled closely un­closure by officials of their in­der tattered umbrellas as the comes and bank accounts. 

Pipe the f... down, Bill! 
By the way, have a Happy 21st Birthday. 

Mike & Los 
Smart 



Help your
parents get throughcollege. 
.Just thinking about college tuition is enough to make most parents break into a sweat. 
But can you blame them? When you consider the cost of tuition, books, dorms-not to mention pizza parties­you're talking big bucks. 
Which is why you should do some talking. Like t2lling your parents about the Education Loan Programs at Manufacturers Hanover Trust. 
At MHT, not only do we participate in all three Federally guaranteed loan programs, but we also work with state and national agencies and can make guaranteed loans in all 50 states. 
In practically no time at all. 
In a matter of minutes, MHT Student Loan Processors can program your information into our computerized loan­processing system. 
Within 24 hours, the Bank will get a decision from the Guarantee Agency. It's that simple. Better still, with MHT your parents will get all the money they need from one source. 
Example: If your folks need more money than government sources will give them, we can offer them tailor-made payment plans through The Education Loan Program, Educational Lines of Credit or Monthly Budget Program and Pre-Payment Programs that make it easy for your parents to fund themselves. (The Education Loan Program, Monthly Budget and Pre-Payment Programs are offered through the Tuition Plan, a company of Manufacturers Hanover.) 
Once you get a loan from us, you can be sure it'll stay with us. Because we've never sold education loans to other banks (unless the borrower asked us to). 
So if you need money for school, call 
1-800-MHT-GRAD and get yourself 
an MHT Education Loan Application. 
Then when your folks ask you about tuition, at least you'll have an answer. "No sweat." 
The Consumer Banking Group 
Member FDIC. G) Equal Opportunity Lender.© !988 Manufacturers Hanover Trust. All rights reserved. 

Friday, April 21, 1989 
The Observer page 7 

EPA reports high levels of radon in schools 


Underground shut . down . The underground station entrance to Tottenham Court Road is virtually deserted Thursday as many subway train drivers staged a 24-hour wildcat stike. The drivers demand more money for working on trains which they will eventually operate alone after the planned phasing out of conductors who open and close doors. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Prelimi­nary tests suggest unhealthy levels of radon exist in schools across the country, the Envi­ronmental Protection Agency said Thursday in urging every school to test for the odorless, carcinogenic gas. 
"Based on measurements taken in 3,000 schoolrooms in 16 states, it appears that elevated levels of radon gas can be found in schools throughout the United States," EPA administrator William Reilly told a luncheon at the National Press Club. 
The EPA said that 54 percent of the 130 schools tested in 41 communities had at least one room in which radon levels were found to exceed 4 picocuries per liter of air, indi­cating a need for additional tests and, likely, corrective ac­tion. 
EPA spokeswoman Martha Casey said that no list of schools was available but that affected state authorities and school officials have been told of the test results. 
Reilly called indoor radon, the result of natural radioac­tive decay in the ground, "one of the major environmental health threats facing Americans" and urged that school officials nationwide test their schoolrooms for the gas. 
There is no federal law re­quiring tests for the radioac­tive gas, although the EPA by law is required to conduct sample tests nationwide in homes and schools to deter­mine potential health threats. 
Last September, the EPA urged all homeowners to con­duct radon tests after un­healthy levels ( 4 picocuries per liter of air) of radon were found in one out of four homes tested in 17 states. 
The agency has said that ex­posure over a lifetime at that level is equivalent to smoking 10 cigarettes a day. 

Rockies have nation's lowest income
Dine at the Water's t:dge 
It was the widest gap since South Dakota briefly bumped Associated Press 1969 between the highest and it out of cellar. lowest regions, based on per Last year was the first time 
WASHINGTON-The Rocky capita income as a percent of the Southeast, with average in­Mountain region for the first the U.S. average, the Com­come of $14,331, did not rank time replaced the Southeast at merce Department reported. last among the eight regions. the bottom of the nation's per It also continued the pattern Income growth in the Southeast capita income scale last year, of the nation's six-year-old eco­matched the national average as its income growth was held nomic expansion, in which per last year of 6.2 percent, while back by weakness in oil and gas capita income has grown faster its replacement on the bottom exploration, the government than average in the high­rung, the Rocky Mountains, reported Thursday. income regions and has ad­saw income grow by 5.4 per­
Per capita personal income vanced slower than average in cent. in the Rocky Mountain states low-income regions. When the national figures are averaged $14,282 last year, 13 "The high-income states are adjusted for inflation, average percent below the national still moving further away, per capita income grew 2 per­average of $16,444. New En­above the U.S. average, and the cent last year, up from the 1.4 gland, meanwhile, claimed the lower-income states are percent pace in 1987. top slot for the fifth straight moving further away, below Among the top-ranking year, with income of $20,013, 22 the average," said Rudolph states, Connecticut was fol­percent above the national DePass, a Commerce Depart­lowed by New Jersey, with per avera e. ment analyst. capita income of $21,882; Mas­
On a state-by-state basis, sachusetts, $20,701; Alaska, Connecticut claimed the top $19,514; and Maryland, $19,314. spot for the third straight year The District of Columbia 
in 1988, with average per capita would have ranked third if it income of $22,761, while Missis­had been ranked along with the sippi remained in the basement states, with per capita income 


Leaving school has 
with average income of $10,992. of $21,667 last year. At the other end of the list, 
Mississippi has been last in Mississippi was followed by every year for which the Com­West Virginia, $11,658; Utah, merce Department has 12,013; Arkansas, $12,172;
neverbeen soeasy. 
records, stretching back to Louisiana, $12,193; and South 1929, except for 1933, when Dakota, $12,475. 
It's not surprising that so many students move with Ryder. We've got sturdy, dependable trucks in all sizes. Many an~ automatics, with power steering, air conditioning, and FM on top of the AM. Plus, Hyder can 
SUMMER STORAGE
help out with boxes, hand trucks, even moving tips. And we're easy on the wallet, too 

FOR STUDENTS 
High St. Storage 
1212 High st. 288-3575 
A~ t 
Edison N >­
"0 
"0 

w River CALL RYDER TRUCKS AT THESE LOCATIONS 
Lincoln Way 
2715 N. Bendix 277-3550 US33N 272-1669 
High St.* 2306 Western Ave. 289-7515 2625 S. Main 232-6729 
1914 Miami 289-6721 1129 N. Bendix 288-0316 
A deposit will hold your storage unit Hurry Now-Spaces are going fast!
RYDERe 
We're there at every tum.­






Viewpoint
page 8 Friday, April 21, 1989 

LETTERS 
Drunk driving leads to senseless loss of life 


P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Manhew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Krllen Viewpoint Editor .....•........... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ......•...•........... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor ....••.••.....•...•..•.... John Blasi Systems Manager ...•......... Mark Derwent Photo Editor .••.....••................•• Eric Bailey OTS Oirector......••........... Angela Bellanca Controller ...•........................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Unr· versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of erther rnstrtution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsrgned editorials represent the opinron of the ma1ority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. Executive News Editor. Viewpornt Edrtor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communrty and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 


Eligibility rules won't play in sports 
The University of Iowa and the Big Ten Conference 
are proposing an athletic policy whereby students 
would not be eligible to participate in varsity athletics 
during their freshman years. 
If this was the only stipulation of policy, it would 
have considerable merit. Unfortunately, the Iowa pro­
posal allows freshmen to practice with their teams 
during their first years, and allows every player four 
years of competition after that. 
The resulting policy amounts to mandatory red­
shirting. 

Every student-athlete must sit out a year, and all 
are automatically eligible for four years at their in­
stitution. 

The creators of this policy are missing the point, 
in addition to being unfair to the athletes. 
Despite the headlines, there are athletes who adjust 
well to collegiate life. They do not receive, nor do 
they require, special treatment, but they would be 
forced to wait a year to begin athletic competition. A 
college or university would not ban all freshmen from 
any other extra-curricular activities. Athletics should 
not be treated any differently. 
There are those athletes who would benefit from a 
period of adjustment to the academic requirements 
of colleges and universities, but the Iowa 
policymakers seem bent on exploiting those individ­
uals by ensuring that they have four years to compete 
for the University. In addition, the proposal does not 
include any process by which to help these students 
adjust. Plus, by giving them five years instead of 
four, the students have an excuse to not concentrate 
on academics. 

The policy is not likely to be accepted by the general 
public, which will have to foot a portion of the bill to 
keep every athlete at a state school in school for five 
years, if they follow the plan. 
Athletic administrators at Iowa and in the Big Ten 
are correct in suggesting policy changes need to be 
made concerning student athletes and freshmen 
eligibility. Unfortunatly, the Iowa proposal misses the 
point and would be ineffective in achieving its goals. 
DOONESBURY 
AN{) 8CU/3Vl3 M13, 711~ N07HIN6 ClXJU3R THAN A 
15-Y&AR.-OW WAU<ING t:JOWN TH~ !iTl?I£T«J/7H 
A 06AREiTT£3.! 
HEiRJ;, -,zyON~! 


I (( 

Dear Editor: 
At the risk of discouraging you from continuing to read this, I'd like to warn you: This letter is about drinking and driving. Oh God, you may sigh, another don't drink and drive tirade. We all know that drink­ing and driving is wrong. We know that it is a crime. We know that it can result in tragic loss of life; what more is there to say? In your place, I might have responded similarly. Un­til a few days ago, that is, when a good friend of mine died in a drunk driving accident. 
Sadly, the story is not unus­ual; we've all been exposed to a story like this in one form or another--news articles, after­school specials, made-for-TV movies. The most popular kid at school (isn't it always the most popular kid?), the one with the bright future whom everybody looks up to, has too much to drink at a party and dies on the way home. That's exactly how it happened last weekend, except it was differ­ent in one way; the "golden boy" was my friend. 
I shouldn't say he was killed in a car accident; rather, he killed himself in a car. Though I would love to be able to blame fate, or God, or some other out­side force, the fact is, he made the choice himself. And that is precisely why his death is so difficult for me to accept. If he weren't dead, I'd like to kill him myself; I am so angry at him. Angry for being so stupid, for terminating such a vibrant young life needlessly. Angry that he was too intoxio.fted to navigate a simple turn, and ma~e it the remaining 100 yards to his driveway in safety. Most of all, I am angry that this tragedy is so common that the circumstances of his death are almost trite. 
I have a new understanding of the origin of the acronym M.A.D.D., for that is exactly what I am. My anger transcends even my grief; this senseless loss of life has to stop. It is difficult to comprehend why people must continue to die from this plague; it is not a terminal disease for which we must wait to find a cure. The solution is evident--don't do it! 
But I didn't write this letter to preach, I just wanted you to know how I feel. I wanted to tell you how those little anti­drunk driving "filler" ads in The Observer that you prob­ably don't even notice any more practically leap off the page at me now. How those corny Michiana-style public service messgaes that I used to laugh at make me cry. It is both difficult and painful to artic­ulate the profound impact the death of my friend has had upon me. It has certainly made me recognize the immediacy of the problem of drunk driving in our society, but it shouldn't take the death of someone you know to make you concerned. Tragedies like the one in my hometown last weekend don't have to happen. Please, I urge you, learn about the devastat­ing effects of drunk driving from example, such as this let­ter, so that you'll never have the misfortune to learn from experience. 
Shannon C. Ryan Regina Hall April 18, 1989 


Congress not as unfair as author claims 
Dear Editor: 
In his article "Democratic partisanship unfairly damages Bush" (The Observer, April 13), Dave Bruner makes some serious misrepresentations both of the nature of the Con­stitution and of the current po­litical atmosphere in this country. Apparently, Mr. Bruner would have the reader believe that Congress, being an inferior partner in our govern­ment's system of checks and balances, is plotting deviously to unman George Bush before his administration gets a chance to lead, making the president a "weak and ineffec­tual" leader. 
One of Mr. Bruner's most glaring oversights is his as­sumption that the Senate is un­der a "constitutional man­date" to confirm whatever nominees Bush might throw its way. Though it has been the convention to grant Cabinet ap­pointees that courtesy, the ac­tual process of confirmation clearly falls under the 'advise and consent' duties of Congress. Without the power to consent our Congress would be merely a rubber stamp. In the case of Senator Tower, the president himself straddled for more than a month before fi­nally putting the man up for ap­proval. The doubts thus ex­pressed by the president over one of his best friends were not lost on the Senate, nor was the fact that the chief propagator of 'innuendo' against Senator Tower was a notorious right­wing ideologue. 

Mr. Bruner's argument that the Congress is hypocritical in its indictment of Senator Tower also has a basic flaw. Indiscre­tions by Congressmen are often issues in elections, and every Senator who voted gainst Senator Tower is subject to a similar scrutiny every six years. As Defense Secretary, Tower would never have faced the voters directly, and so it was the Senate's duty to verify or refute the wisdom of Bush's belabored decision. The Congress can and does investi­gate impropriety among its members. The final judge of Speaker Wright, however, will be the voters of his district. 
Most curious is Mr. Bruner's claim that, by disagreeing with the president on the minimum wage and the Tower nomina­tion, the Congress will inflict irreparable damage on Bush's imgae as the chief executive of this country. While it is true that these issues are and will be important tests of the pres­ident's leadership, they should not be seen as anything more than normal disagreements be­tween the executive and legislative branches. The Congress is not obliged to make 
long-term concessions to the president as part of a 'honeymoon' package; to do so would be a betrayal of the ap­parent intention of the elector­
ate in electing a  Democratic  
Congress.  
At  the  same  time,  Mr.  

Bruner's assertion of this Congress's combative ten­dencies flies in the face of at least one recent event, the Con­tra compromise. Congress as well as the president came a long, difficult way to see eye to eye on that issue, but patience on both sides paid off in a clear, coherent policy for peace in 
Central America. 

It must be clear that Congress is not just interested in handing this new president crippling defeats; nobody wants a weak President across the table from Gorbachev. But the way in which Bush chooses to handle his defeats is an im­portant barometer of his actual potency as a leader. Ifthe pres­ident becomes weak and inef­fectual as a result of losing on the minimum wage issue, that will tell the American people much less about their Demo­cratic Congress than it will tell them about the man they chose to be President. 
Jeremy Manier Zahm HaU April13, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'You could wait for your dreams to come true; but time has no mercy. Time won't stand still for you.' 

Bryan Adams 


Viewpoint
Friday, April 21, 1989 page 9 

A Modest Proposal for College Football 
LETTERS 

Initiation helps faith to grow 
Dear Editor: 
During the recent celebra­tion of the Easter Vigil at Sa­cred Heart Church, four young University students, Matthew Azer, Cynthia Redding, Jonat­han Baker, and Stephanie Tolstedt, were initiated into the Roman Catholic Church. For those in attendance at the Vigil, the celebration was moving and indeed inspiring. The four people, now newly baptized, were participants in the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults directed by Sister Mary Curan through the Office of Campus Ministry. The program, begun last Fall, is designed to facilitate the initiation of those adults seeking entrance into full communion with the Cath­olic Church. 
As a faith community here at the University, where most of us have been Catholic Chris­tians since our infant baptism, it is so easy to take our faith for granted. I suggest, however, that the four people recently initiated are a living reminder to us that Catholic Christianity is a gift from God to be sought after and cherished. The decision to par­ticipate in a program that demands a considerable amount of time outside of the already packed schedule of uni­versity students is not a light one. These people have not ful­filled 'some requirement; rather, they have freely chosen to dedicate themselves to a way of life. They have freely chosen to participate in a program whose spirit is so reminiscent of the early Christian commu­nity and have decided to, in a very similar way as the early Christians, take a road less traveled and to place God at the center of their lives. 

We must not forget that our faith is a gift, and we should not forget to thank Matt, Cyndy, Jonathan and Stephanie for reminding us of that gift. We must as well give thanks for those who helped them in their journey. A special thanks goes to the Campus Ministry Team, Sister Mary Curan, Fa­ther Tom Gaughan, Father Dan Jenky, as well as Father Dave Tyson, and Father Peter Rocca, for helping to make the ritual of initiation a vibrant symbol of our life in communi­ty. The RCIA team, comprised of fellow university students, should also be congratulated, and we must remember the sponsors who gave their time 

and shared their faith. In an equally important way, we must remember the entire Notre Dame family for the tre­mendous community of faith that exists here. There is one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God, the Creator of all. Surely we can not question the blessings our God has given to Notre Dame. 
Walter Jenkins Moreau Seminary April 2, 1989 


Comic strip faces AIDS 

Dear Editor: 
Today's "Doonesbury" (April 14, 1989) contained an appropriate response to the ev­ident ignorance and ridiculous­ness of The Observer's disclaimer of the comic strip's "insensitive" and "offensive" treatment of the AIDS topic (The Observer, April 7). In today's strip the physician--re­ferring to his patient Andy-­says, "Andy uses humor to sof­ten the rage he feels and to help him face the abyss. I encourage it, because AIDS care is about helping people cope, helping them die with dignity ...". 
The physician's words make it clear that the editorial staff of The Observer is more atten­tive to the few seconds of dis­comfort of the majority of per­sons in the Notre Dame community when they read the comic strip than to those of us in the community who care for persons with AIDS or who have AIDS, for whom the discomfort is not for a few seconds a day, but for 24 hours each day, seven days a week, and years long. 
Mr. Trudeau is obviously sensitive to the burden that per­sons with AIDS and persons who love them carry. Ifwe deal with our situations with contin­ual gravity and without oc­casional humor--such as that brilliantly captured by Trudeau on AIDS--we will cer­tainly not survive for very long. To those of us whose ringing phone brings a slight panic about whose HIV test might have come back positive, about whose positive has turned to symptoms, whose symptoms to sickness or death, the comic strip is not offensive, but un­derstanding and compas­sionate. 
I ask simply that The Obser­ver editorial board consider if their disclaimer was "about helping people cope, helping them die with dignity" or about relieving the momentary dis­comfort of the Notre Dame community, which daily pretends that AIDS is someth­ing about which it need not be concerned. 
Martin Connell 
Off-campus 
Aprill4, 1989 
By J.J. Carberry and D' Arcy Chisholm 

Intercollegiate football competition has in recent years flirted with dis­grace. Witness the CFA (College Foot­ball Association). Organized some seasons ago to fulfill lofty goals of true amateur athletic competitiveness, several CFA member schools, we have noted today, have been found guilty of grievous violations of even NCAA rules (e.g., Texas A&M; U. of Houston; SMU; Oklahoma; Oklahoma State; Il­linois, inter alia). 
It is virtually common knowledge that football players of less than mar­ginal academic potential are too often recruited to "fill stadiums" and then are passed on, sans a legitimate aca­demic degree, to fend for themselves: A fraction find a rich but brief livelihood in the NFL or CFL. In sum, at too many institutions (CFA in par­ticular) football players are naught but "meat" carried on board for a few years for no other purpose but to en­hance revenues and "status" of the of­fending institution. 
It was the president of a well-known state university who declared "We need a university that our football team can be proud of." 
It was a body of presidents of academically quite respectable state universities who implicitly admitted that they knew not of the corruption which marked their athletic programs. 
Whether the school be first or second­rate academically, evidence of decep­tions, corruptions and, most important­ly, exploitation of so-called "student athletes" is endemic--particularly amongst CFA members. Every major school chastised by the NCAA is a CFA member. So much for the hypocrisy of the CFA. Of course there are to be found virgins in the whorehouse, but a bor­dello is a bordello. How to escape the bordello while retaining its legitimate rewards? 
The legitimate rewards of intercol­legiate athletic competition are legion and of signal import. They are so ob­vious as to require naught but passing reference: teamwork, character devel­opment, school spirit--in sum, educa­tion of the body, spirit, on the field to complement the mind's nurturing within the classroom. A Greek ideal, to 
M 
.... 
IS 

be sure. But a reality dearly needed to 
be restored in our age. 

Less lofty, some would aver, but nevertheless legitimate is the mone­tary reward to the school which fields a competitive team (in the ever-keen eyes of TV and radio). 
There then can be no doubt that a 
just balance must be sustained between 
the educational function of a sports pro­
gram and its revenue-generating capa­
bilities which sustain that very pro­
gram. 

A Tentative Resolution 
The Ivy League is a paradigm for a solution of the inevitable tension twixt education and, if you will, show-biz--or to be less severe, prudent economics. What are the key features of the Ivy League? 
1) Comparable bases for admission. 
2) Aid based upon need. 
3) No spring practice. 

4) No freshman varsity eligibility. 
5) Competition largely within the league. The negatives? 
1) They lose money. 
2) They lose money. 
3) etc. 

Why do they lose money? Simple, really. The Ivies are geographically and demographically limited. Their ap­peal is quite limited to a very limited body of people in the narrow confines of the Northeast. The Ivy League is not national. 
Let us then postulate an Ivy League of national recognition, i.e., an assem­bly of schools representing geographi­cal diversity and acknowledged aca­demic virtues. A tentative list of such 
schools is set forth below: East (5): Boston College, Army, 
Navy, Penn State, Syracuse. Southeast (3): Duke, UVA, UNC. Midwest (4): Notre Dame, Northwes­
tern, Miami <Ohio), Vanderbilt. Southwest (3): Rice, SMU, Tulane. West (4): Air Force, Stanford, UCal 
Berkeley, USC. 

Obviously other worthy institutions could be cited and invited--our list is naught but a suggestion. 
Surely of the 19 teams noted above, it should be possible to create a league of 10 (Note: many of the cited teams are independents). Each team would then play 9 games within the league, one outside the league (e.g., Notre Dame vs. Purdue, National Ivies vs. Ivy League) and a bowl game, if so offered and desired. 
The public response? Does anyone believe that the public (i.e., TV, Radio) would eschew a Notre Dame-Stanford game, Army-Navy, SMU-ND, BC-USC, etc.? Penn State-Berkeley? This is indeed a national league! What are its unique, common qualities? Qualities which could well rescue major college from its now low estate? 
National Ivy League Principles All league members would agree to: 
1. Academic Criteria: 
a) Admission based upon G P A and SAT within 10% of the mean of the gen­eral student body. Twelve H.S. quality points a minimum requirement. Criteria monitored within the league, as is done in the Ivy League. (The issue of minorities requires comment. Minority student athletes could be ad­mitted based on the mean scores of minorities in the general student body. Quite frankly, we find such distinctions to be patronizing, suggesting that minorities are incapable of scores com­parable to those of all students.) 
b) 
Grants-in-aid based upon need as monitored via the Princeton service. 

c) 
In residence 2.(}14.0 GPA for ath­letic eligibility. Monitored. All courses must be degree credits. 

d) 
Total of 4 academic years plus summer school for all majors with grants except Engineering, Science, Pre-Med where a 5-year tenure is al­lowed. 


2. Athletic Criteria 
a) 
No freshman varsity eligibility. 

b) 
No spring practice. 

c) 
No red shirting. 



In sum, the student-athlete can only compete at the varsity level for a max­imum of 3 years while receiving a grant based on need for 4 or 5 years (depending upon the academic major). 
Conclusions 

This proposal is not idealistic--it is realistic. It is a program in accord with the real elements of education of the body and spirit, such as to justly com­plement the minds' journey in the col~ lege environment. Patently, the NFL authorities would shudder at the prospect of our scheme gaining general approval. After all, intercollegiate foot­ball is the NFL's farm system. They might forward education by establish­ing, at their expense, a semi­professional farm system, as does pro­fessional baseball. 
Obviously this scheme can only be­come a reality if 10 schools join the league. But 10 or more schools will scarcely join ranks unless a persuasive power such as Notre Dame leads the way in bringing about this refreshing coalescence of major universities devoted to the restoration of intercol­legiate athletic nobility. 
J.J. Carberry, a graduate of both Yale and Notre Dame and a self-proclaimed conservative, is aprofessor ofchemical engineering at Notre Dame. D'Arcy Chisholm, a self-proclaimed liberal, is Associate Director of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry at Notre Dame. They say that on cosmic issues such as intercollegiate athletics they are of one mind. 
rt7 


MOVIES 


fri. 

"Beverly Hills Cop" 
I 
Engineering Auditorium, 8, 10:15 p.m. "The Decline of Western Civilization II: The Metal Years" Annenburg, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
MUSIC 

Center Street Blues Billy Sticks Nicks & theN's & Out's
f 
l 
performing at 9:30p.m. Admission IS $4 or free with dmner. 
Theodore's 

Zito and the Heaf-ons performing at 9:30 p.m. 

THEATER 

"The Power and the Glory" Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. 1ickets are $6 for Main Floor, $5 for Balcony. 


sat.

MOVIES 

"Crocodile Dundee II" 
Engineering Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. 

MUSIC 

Center Street Blues Billy Sticks Nicks & theN's & Out's performing at 9:30p.m. Admission IS $4 or free with dmner. 
Theodore's The Rave, a Chicago-based band, performing at Theodore's, 9:30p.m. 

THEATER 

"The Power and the Glory" Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. 1ickets are $6 for Main Floor, $5 for Balcony. 


sun. 

MUSIC 

Violin and Piano Recital Features Dan Rizner, Claude Cymerrnan at Annenberg Auditorium at 2 p.m. 

The Collegium Musicum 
Notre Dame's Collegium Musicum performing Mozart's Missa Brevis m F Major, at StJames' Episcopal Church, 105 South Fifth Street in Goshen at4 p.m. 

THEATER 

"The Power and the Glory" Washington Hall, 3:10p.m. Tickets are $6 for Main Floor, $5 for Balcony. 

ON CAMPUS 
St. Ed's Charity Carnival 
Stepan Center, noon to 11 p.m. 




An Tostal heralds Spt 
In it's 22nd year, An Tostal has become an end­lessly expanding tradition. 
JANICE ARCHER accent writer 
S 
pring has finally arrived at Notre 
Dame, and with it 
comes the activi­
ties of An Tostal. Expanded this year to encom­pass an entire week, this se­ries of scheduled spring fever activities is a traditional event welcomed by all. 
An Tostal, Gaelic for "fes­tival," was started in 1967 by David Ryan, a student who engineered the event for three years. In its first few years, An Tostal consisted of organ­ized events on the quad on Friday and Saturday. It has become a week long series of activities that gives students "a last chance for fun before finals," says Chairman J. Christopher Murphy. 
The St. Ed's Charity Car­nival kicks off the week on Sunday, April 23 from noon to 11 p.m. at Stepan Center. There will be a picnic, and a student jazz band will per­form. The band is accepting donations for a scholarship in the name of a Cavanaugh Hall student killed in a skiing accident. The carnival itself is inside Stepan, with over 20 dorms sponsoring booths. The proceeds from each booth will go to a charity of the dorm's choice. 
Different events take place during the week on campus, but all of Thursday's activi­ties will occur at Saint Mary's. There will be another picnic, with The Freddy Jones band performing. The major attractions on Thursday are the bike race and Jello wres­tling. This year, the wrestling pit is "bigger than ever," says Murphy, since 175 gal­lons of green Jello will be used. A huge game of Twister will be played this day, on a greased Twister mat. 


Friday's An Tostal happen­ings take place on South Quad. Some popular activities are "the pie in the face" con­test, with campus per­sonalities, an impersonation contest and a tie-dye session. Students can bring their own clothes, and dye and instruc­tions will be provided. The main attraction among Friday's 23 events is the Recess at Stepan. Childhood games that never lose their appeal, such as dodge ball and finger painting will be played. Over 400 sheets of paper were used last year at the finger painting booth. Popcorn and ice cream will be provided, and a D.J. will be playing music. 
Saturday is the biggest day of An Tostal. Activities are scheduled from 9 a.m. until midnight. For lunch, Billy Sticks Nicks is performing at a picnic at Stepan. Games such as the water balloon toss, a wheelbarrow race and a wet clothes rally will be played, and one of the most popular events takes place: the mud pits. 
The An Tostal committee will be bringing in "clean dirt," says Murphy, "dirt that has been filtered to remove twigs and rocks." Pillow fights and tug of wars will be fought on boards above an 8 x 12 foot pit of mud. A field of 
Friday, April 21, 1989 

•

1llg 

~,~._:~:. " 
' 

•rver 1Trey Reymond unk contest. The 
an tostal calendar of events 
Sunday, April 23 

"Picnic/Concert'' -On the lawn, 11 a.m. to 1p.m. Stepan field. "St. Ed's Charity Carnival" 
-Noon to 11 p.m., Stepan Center 

Tuesday, April 25 

"Jim E. Brogan" "Ultimate Frisbee" "Kisser" "Ugly Man on Campus" "Daisy Delivety" "Tuck-ins" 
"Looking for Mr. N.D. Bar" "GolfTournament" 
-2 p.m., Burke Golf Course "Chalk Drawiru!'' 
-3:30 p.m., FiefQhouse Mall 

Wednesday, April 26 
"Jordan Jammer Mini Hoops Tourney" 
-3 p.m., Bookstore courts "Slam Dunk contest" 
-3:30 p.m., Bookstore courts "The Sound of Music" 
-9 p.m., Theodore's 


Thursday, April 27 
"The An Tostal Road Wars-Bike Race" 
-2:30 p.m., LeMans Circle "Canoe Race" 
-3:45p.m., lake Marion, SMC. "The Freddv Jones Band" 
-4-7 p.m., SMC Library Green "Picnic" -4:30-6:30 p.m., SMC Library Green "DunkinS! Booth" 
-4:30-6:30 p.m., SMC Library Green "Twister" 
-4:30-6:30 p.m., SMC Library Green "Simon Says" 
-5:30p.m., SMC Library Green "Egg Toss" -5:4Qp_,m., SMC Library Green 
"Jello Wrestling" -4:30-6:30 p.m., SMC Library Green "Dating Game" -7 p.m., Angela Athletic Facility
"Mr. Campus"-8:15p.m., Angela Athletic Facility "Rocky Horror Picture Show" -9 p.m., behind Haggar College Center "Comedy Zone" -Vic Henley, 9 to 10 p.m., Theodore's "late Night at Theodore's" -10 p.m. to 1 a.m., Theodore's. 
:u's festivities. 
mud will be used for volley­ball and wheelbarrow races. The traditional chariot races also take place on the mud field. Each dorm can build a chariot, with one rider and three to four people pushing. 
On Saturday night, Cats on Holiday will be playing at the Fieldhouse Mall, and IBM is helping to sponsor a fireworks display at midnight. 
Sunday of An Tostal week ends with the finals of the Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment. With 672 teams enter­ing this year, the old world's record was broken. Begun in 1972 with only 57 teams, it has become the world's larg­est basketball tournament, as cited in the Guinness Book of World's Records. Since over 4,000 spectators are expected at the finals, more bleachers will be set out. 
Responding to student sug­gestions, the committee has scheduled a different campus band to play every day at the Fieldhouse Mall. The perfor­mances will begin in the late afternoon. 
In its 22nd year, An Tostal has become an endlessly ex­panding tradition. More people signed up to be in­volved in this year's events than ever before, and faculty participation in the Bookstore tournament is at its largest to date. With this enthusiastic response, the much­ailticipated An Tostal is cer­tain to herald spring at Notre Dame for years to come. 

•





review 
llll It 

Hacienda is a· Mexican-style pleasure any day of the week 
MARK McLAUGHLIN accent writer 
M
argaritas. These have always been 
one of my favorite 
drinks, and no 
Mexican restaurant 

is complete without them. 
One man's opinion, anyway. 
The Hacienda restaurant 
has them and they are good. 
No ifs, ands or buts, these are 
the best in town. Not only 
that but there is decent food 
too. 

There are three or four 
Haciendas in the area, the 
closest being in Indian Ridge 
Plaza off of Grape Road. I 
paid a visit there on Wednes­
day night expecting cheezy 
decor, mediocre food, and 
perhaps passable drinks. Only 
one of these three came to 
pass--a pleasant surprise. 
The large number of cars in 
the parking lot tipped me off 
that this was no ordinary res­
taurant. We didn't have to 
wait at 5:30p.m. but the wait 
at 7:30p.m. was 10 to 15 
minutes. Moral of the story: 
go early. 
The decor was in fact 
cheezy. There were some 
pseudo-Mexican paintings on 
the walls and the obligatory 
pseudo-stucco walls and 
rounded archways, but the 20­
foot ceilings created vast ex­
panses of undecorated wall. 
Some tall plants and false ceilings would have helped immeasurably. 
As I mentioned before, the frozen margaritas are excel­lent. They come in glasses, mugs, half-liters and liters, and in regular, strawberry, or raspberry flavors. The glass (normally $2) was only $1.25 for plain and $1.50 for flavored on Wednesdays. Lucky us! The flavoring and the tequila were there but not overstated, and the glasses were correctly salted with nice big lime wedges. These drinks alone make Hacienda worth the trip (for the over-21 crowd, of course.) 
The food was also excellent and very plentiful. The Nachos Fiesta we ordered ($3.95) was very Mexican, un­like other nacho platters in South Bend. There was lots of lettuce and Jalapeno j:>eppers and cheese and stuff. The guacamole we got on the side was second-rate, according to my guest, but there was plenty of goop on the nachos already. 
Hacienda's "Famous Wet Burrito" ($3.95, extra for shredded chicken or beef) was a meal by itself. It was about the size of a medium textbook and smothered in cheese and tomato sauce, and filled with ground beef and beans. I ordered refried 
•



grev1ew 
beans on the side (for $1) but hardly touched them since the burrito was so much. 
The taco salad ($3.95 regu­lar, $2.95 small) was equally monstrous. Consisting of a big crunchy shell filled with cheese, lettuce, tomato, ground beef and other tidbits served cold, this was another meal that could not be finished. 
For dessert we tried the sopapillas ($1.25), flaky dough pastries covered with powdered sugar and served with honey. They were the right consistency and taste but we only got two measly plastic packets of honey. A nice sized bowl would have been tastier and a bit more classy. 

Go there. Go repeatedly on Wednesdays. 6o early to avoid lines. And bring friends--the atmosphere is not quite cozy enough for those of you suicidal enough to take a date for Mexican food. There's a bar if you want to skip the food, but you'II be missing out. 
Hacienda is open on Sunday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 10 p.m., and Friday and Sat­urday until 11 p.m.. I'm told the decor at the Hacienda in the 100 Center in Mishawaka is nicer but there's a longer wait. Either way, you're in for a good time. 
Carnival for the Arts brings Paris to Indiana 
CHRISTINE McCANN accent writer 
T 
his Friday and Sat­urday, April 21 and 22, will bring April in Paris to South Bend as the Mic­hiana Arts and Sciences Council presents its annual Carnival for the Arts. The event, which will be held in Century Center from 6 p.m. to 1 a.m., features as its theme "Carnival Visits Paris, City of Lights on the Seine," and promises to provide an evening of Parisian delights. 
Admission is $7 in advance and $8 at the door, and it covers a variety of offerings. There is something to please every taste. Musical acts fea­tured include Doubletake, a jazz band comprised of mem­bers of the South Bend com­munity; the South BendMishawaka Valleyaires, who specialize in barbershop harmony; and Southbend Junction, which will feature a selection of tunes from popular Broadway musicals. 
In addition, dancing will be highlighted as a main event. Randy Martin and Glen Saba, known for their mastery of the saxophone, will perform from 7:30 to 8 p.m. both evenings in the Great Hall of the Century Center. Mary beth McAdams, a principal organi­zer of the event, says, "Randy Martin has played in the area quite frequently; he concentrates mainly on music of the 50 s, 60 s, and 70 s. I've danced to his music before; I can guarantee he's lots of fun." 
Immediately following Randy Martin and Glen Saha will be The Music Company and Chantilly Lace; both are recognized for their dance­able selections. 
If music or dancing is not your cup of tea, sample the comedy offered. The eagerly anticipated annual Commu­nity Skit will this year feature the talents of The Hysterical Clericals, who's spoof on the community promises to be "a little risque," according to McAdams. Also, The Story Peddlers, Les and Jeff, and Randy Martin will provide additional chuckles. 
The price of food and drink is not covered in the admis­sion charge, however menus will be offered that promise to please every palate. Tradi­tional French fare will be the main focus, including crepes, croissant sandwiches, and many types of French pastries. However for those not partial to a taste of France, other goodies will be offered, such as Italian cuisine, sandwiches, a variety of snackfoods, and even beer and bratwurst. In all, nine restaurants will be open for business. 
Carnival for the Arts was first created in 1977, and serves to assist the Michiana Arts and Sciences Council in funding arts services to over forty-three member organiza­tions, as well as varied events in the community, and the Colfax Cultural Center. 
McAdams advises students to arrive after eight in order to join the livelier crowd and also points out that, according to past experiences, Friday night is generally less crowded. Join the residents of Michiana in what promises to be "the biggest party in town;" not only will you ex­perience a taste of the foreign in this year of cultural diver­sity, but you'll also have a wonderful time. 
~----~-~-------­
page 12 etc. Friday, April 21, 1989 
The Church: an army that shoots its wounded 
not the already-saved whom Christ had in mind when He established the Church, as He clearly told us. 
But as Paul wrote, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God; so maybe you can say that the "already­saved" have a part in the Church too; if they could only understand what it means to say, "The truth will make you free." 
What is the truth? The truth is that God is love, and he who abideth in love, abideth in God. This is the truth the Christian should be aware of as though his soul's breath depends on it, because it does. 
Unfortunately, the truth that the "already-saved" cling to their smugness is the truth about faith and morals. Jesus didn't get a reputation as a radical because he was a moralist, and His theology was tame and wholesome, compared with the myths about the gods you can dis­cover in Virgil and Homer. The stunning revelation He brought us is that the Father in heaven is perfect in love. Of all creatures on earth, men and women are the lovers and achieve their high destiny as lovers. 
What did Christ say of the woman taken in adultery? "Much is forgiven her, for she has loved much." Then he said to her, "Go and sin no more." Was He absolving her from a morals charge, or was He telling her that as an adulteress, she was squander­ing love in a way that would never bring hef happiness or fulfillment? Love is the fulfill­ment of the law, but lust is the use of a privilege that belongs to love. As such, it's an act of injustice that can bring trouble to the communi­ty. You can understand why adultery is wrong when it's finally revealed to you that God's first law is love. 
What happens to a Church that tries to live as though its highest duty is to teach faith and morals? It sets up in­quisitions to defend the truth of the faith, and it sets up watch-and-ward societies and temperance leagues to en­force its moral teachings. The Church that gets puffed up over itself as a defender of truth has to insist on its infal­libility and its right to be intolerant of error, despite heresy. But even if the Church is entitled to claim these special perrogatives, every article of the Creed serves as chapter and verse showing what it means to say that God is love. 
The Church, believing that the truth it should live by is that God is love and that its mission is to make God's love visible to the world, should feel very restless in a part­nership with the secular powers which obliged, in the name of the common good, to wage wars, to punish the guilty, and to shoot the wounded. It seems hardly likly that the secular partners would be much inspired to accept the sensitive duties of Christ's Church as their own. 
The· Church which fails to be the Church of Christ's love made visible, does so at great risk to itself, because it betrays the Master. If I were to list groups of these people, you could see how men have suffered inordinately because of the Church's abuse orne­glect of them. How would it · be possible for the Church not to be held responsible in the judgement for its failure to love? 
I'm not in favor of pulling down the Church for its sins against the light. It's at least possible, as a Church mem­ber, to become aware of the Christian's vocation to wear himslf out, or lay down his life, in the service of love. It's even possible for a Church member to be come a saint. Maybe someday the Church will be turned inside out, in a revolution of love. I don't believe that Christ has finished yet with the Church that He, as the Incarnation of love, wants for His servant. 
I don't regard this column as a powerful exercise in relentless logic. Any lightweight, I expect, could prove that the argumentation is silly. I just wanted to see how far I could go in flying the idea of the Church as an army that shoots its wounded. 
A 
friend once said, "The 
trouble with Notre Dame 
is that the whole goddamned 
place is run as though it 
were somebody's hobby." 
This opinion, ripped off in 
turned out to be one of 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
the truths that make men 
free, because it's the clue 
that explains everything. ND 
may be a fine university, but it's also a hobby-lobby, in my mind at least. 
When mistakes are made, or silly things are done, when I'm mistaken myself, instead of asking, "How is it possible in this enclave of saints and scholars?" I remind myself not to take this place as seriously as it takes itself. I'm glad it was pointed out to me that Notre Dame is easier to take if I judge it as I would judge the space set aside for arts and crafts on the funny farm, where grownups join the children to work at their hobbies. 
This morning, a woman wrote me a letter: "The Chri­stian army is the only army that shoots its wounded." The impact of that tore the top of my head off before I could even get a handle on what it meant. Do Christians shoot their own wounded? You can bet your a-double-s they do! 
Of all the truths that make men free, maybe that's the more powerful of them all. Maybe, in getting a handle on it, we could realize how dan­gerous Jesus was as a revolu­tionary, because his revolu­


tion was one of love. Didn't he tell us that it wasn't the well people, but the sick who needed a doctor? That is it's not the saved He came to help, but the lost? That it is not the righteous who need Him, but the sin­ners? In other words, He founded the Church as a well, where the thirsty could al­ways get a drink; as a sup­per, where the famished could get a meal; as a home the street people could always come to; as a party, where the naked would be dressed in fine robes; as a sheepfold, where the black sheep are always awaited. But who turned it into a club run by the self-righteous for the already -saved? 
The weakness of President Johnson's war on poverty was that the poor didn't get to run it; half the money set aside for the poor was paid out in salaries to bureaucrats who administered the program. Who runs the Church? The already-saved, though it was 


Friday: 

One of this campus' GREATEST rock and roll bands: 

ZETO. AND THE HEAT-ONS 
the show starts at 1 0:00 
Saturday: 

A Professional Dance band back by popular demand: 


RAVE 
They played for Freshman Orientation and one other time this year at THEODORE'S. H you've seen them before, you'll want to see them again -if you haven't, come see what you've been missing. 
Show starts at 10:00 
Friday, April 21, 1989 
The Observer page 13 
Calgary, St. Louis IAikman to be first draft pick 
•

w1n playoff games 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, ALBERTA-­Colin Patterson scored in the first minute and Doug Gil­mour, the hero of Game 1, had two goals in 77 seconds as the Calgary Flames routed the disorganized Los Angeles Kings 8-3 Thursday night to take a two-game lead in the Smythe Division finals. 
Patterson knocked in a rebound 58 seconds into the game and Gilmour scored twice from the slot for a 3-0 lead at 6:05 before the Flames added a controver­sial power-play goal by Al Macinnis at 11:35. 
With the Flames up a man, Kings forward Bernie Nic­holls hit Flames goalie Mike Vernon in the mask. Vernon banged his head on the cros­sbar and fell to the ice. Cal­gary trainer Jim Murray im­mediately ran onto the ice to tend to Vernon. 
While Wayne Gretzky was vehemently complaining to referee Bill McCreary about the trainer being on the ice, Macinnis beat Kings goale Kelly Hrudey with a 15-foot slap shot in the slot. 

Blues 5, Blackhawks 4. 
ST. LOUIS--Tony Hrkac, playing in his first playoff game this season, scored at 
13:49 of the second overtime Thursday night to give the St. Louis Blues a 5-4 victory over the Chicago Black­hawks, evening the Norris Division finals at one win apeice. 
Hrkac picked up the puck in Chicago's zone off the right boards and skated through the faceoff circle to send his shot past goaltender Alain Chevrier, who stopped 51 shots. 
Chicago never led, manag­ing only 18 shots during the first 60 minutes and battled to the tie in regulation by coming from behind three times. 
UCLA quarterback signs contract with Cowboys 
Associated Press 
IRVING, TEXAS--The Dal­las Cowboys ended weeks of NFL draft speculation Thursday by signing quarter­back Troy Aikman to a rookie­record six-year, $11.2 million contract. 
Aikman, who played at UCLA and who will be the No. 1 choice in Sunday's NFL draft, said he hoped that within five years "the fans will be compar­ing me with Roger Staubach." 
He said he wanted to sign with the Cowboys because every Sunday he used to watch Staubach on television from his home in Henryetta, Okla. 
"I remember all those com­eback victories and I'd like to be part of that someday," Aik­man said. "I can't step into Roger's shoes but maybe I can do some of the things he did." 
Cowboys coach Jimmy Johnson said the third time was the charm in his trying to at­tract Aikman. 
"He turned me down out of 
high school and went to Okla­
homa," said Johnson, who was 
then coaching at Oklahoma 
State. "Then, when I was at 
Miami, I tried to get him when 
he left Oklahoma, but he went 
to UCLA. I was afraid he would 
turn me down a third time." 
Ironically, Aikman suffered 
a broken leg during a game 
against Miami when he was at 
Oklahoma. He sat out the rest 
of that season and decided to 
transfer to UCLA after Okla­
homa coaches announced they would return to the run­oriented wishbone offense the following season. 
"Thanks for breaking my leg, Coach," Aikman said. "You did me a favor." 
Quarterback Vinny Tes­taverde signed a six-year, _$8.2 million contract with Tampa Bay when he came out of Miami in 1987. 
Quarterback Warren Moon recently signed a contract with the Houston Oilers for five years at $2 million per season. Leigh Steinberg, Aikman's agent, also negotiated that con­tract. 
Aikman's $11.2 million con­tract included a signing bonus believed to be worth more than $2 million. 
"It was the highest contact for a rookie," Steinberg said of Aikman's deal. 
"I was proud to pay it," Cow­boys owner Jerry Jones said. "In my opinion, Troy could have gotten more money if he had played for another team in the NFL." 
The 6-foot-3, 217-pound Aik­man, who played two years at UCLA, was 20-4 with the Bruins. He completed 60 per­cent of his passes and threw 41 touchdown passes with only 17 interceptions. 
Aikman was the most valu­able player in the Cotton Bowl, leading UCLA to a 17-3 victory over Arkansas. He also was named the winner of the Davey O'Brien award as the nation's best quarterback. He was third in the Reisman Award ballot­ing. 
The Observer accepts class1f1eds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 unhl3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class1fieds is 3 p m All class1fieds must



Classifieds 
be prepa1d. The charge IS 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

NEED MONEY? Sell your textbool<s for 
CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash 
or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. 

Ave.(walking distance !rom campus) ph. 
233-2342 
Wordprocentng-Typing 272--8827 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 

TYPING term pspers.teportll lel­tera-tesumes Pick up & delivery svslleble. 277·5134 10em-8pm. 
RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a computer. Call Sus's Secretarial Ser­vice anytime et 299-0063. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS VOCATION COUNSELING tor the ONE­YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and other ministry opportunaies. Contact: FR. JOHN CONLEY, CSC BOX 541 NOTRE DAME 239-6385 
Pray to St. Jude 

I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: GOLD ROPE NECKLACE ON FRI. 417. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL X1326. 
LOST SUNDAY 4116: BROWN LEAT­HER CASE WI READING GLASSES, EITHER AT STEPAN CTA., STEPAN COURTS OR SOUTH DINING HALL. I CANNOT READ ANYMORE I HELP!!! PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT X4079 IF FOUND. 
............. ············· ············ DO YOU HAVE A BLUE & WHITE WIL­SON GOLF UMBRELLA? IF YOU PICKED IT UP FROM NIEWLAND 127 BETWEEN 9:15 AND 10:45 ON THURSDAY. PLEASE RETURN IT TO ITS OWNER. X4927 PLEASE 
FOUND: ONE SET OF DORM KEYS. CALL 4328 TO IDENTIFY. 
LOST LICHT PURPLE WOVEN STRAW BAG CONTAINS GREEK DICTIONARY, GRAMMAR BOOK, AND NOTES IF FOUND, CALL MAURA, 1759. 

FOR RENT 

NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 
28HI389, 683-8889. 
;;c;u·R·---Fuas·----;;.\FiM-·-a-iio---.\-No 
BREAKFAST CONVENIENTLY LO­CATED 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVITIES. 61&--t71­
5711. 
cAM'Pus--·view..APAA'meN:rs"Fi'EN·-
TtNG NOW FOR SUMMER. 2 BEDROOMS FURNISHEO-UTILITIES INCLUDED-SHORT TERM LEASES. $410 PER MONTH. CALL 272-1441 THERE'S STILL A HOUSE AVAILABLE IN GOOD CONDITION AND EXCEL­LENT LOCATION--SAFE AND CLOSE-­4-5 BEDROOMS, FURNISHED. 233­9947 
·······································-·················· APT. 2 PEOPLE GOOD NEIGHBOR­HOOD 288-0955'289-2331 
MALE GRADUATES FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272­0615. 
OWN ROOM, Apt. w excel. amenities. Buift in desM!hetves. Considerate male or female non-smol<er. $ t 95 e11.! utilaies. Call 256--1538 

WANTED 
GOVERNMENT JOBS! NOW HIRING THIS AREA! $10,213 TO $75,473. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 EXT F·2382H. 
NEED ROOMMATE FOR SUMMER. 4418 OR 847 PE. SLOAN. 
I am lool<ing for a bike for grad school next year. Steve 3767 

FOR SALE 
FLY HOME TO CT-1 way after &'12 btl 
before 41.!9-Kevln Q 271-9311 
......................................... 
Need e car? 
'79 Datsun 21 O,euto.,good condi­
tion,new bettery.$550. Going to 
Europe:must sell! Kety # 3490. 
Roundtrip Plane Ticl<et for anywhere in the Continental USA SO call Deb at 277­7593 
FOR SALE: 10-SPEED BIKE. GOOD CONDITION, $25. CALL CHRIS AT 1073 

TICKETS 
$$$ GRAD TIX WANTED $$$ Call Michelle at 3196 
················································ 
• • • WANTE0-1 grad tix, will pay$$ Call*3183 ••• 
ELVIS COSTELLO 
ELVIS COSTELLO 
ELVIS COSTELLO 
I WILL PAY FOR YOUR COSTELLO 
CONCERT TIX AND YOUR TROUBLE 
PLEASE SELL ME YOUR TIX--1 NEED 
2 

CALL 3719 
"' HAWAIIAN CLUB LUAU "' Saturday, April 29 So.Dining Hall 6-9 p.m. Ticl<ets $5.00 On sale now at ISO office 

PERSONALS 
hlag 

SCAP ..... The Word of the Futurell! Use HNOWII 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL HID0-343--8373. 
I need a ride to IU for Utile 500 weekend. Can leave anytime, will pay for gas. Please call Kathleen at # 2666. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE ··········································· 
Ride needed to Cols., OH, leaving p.m. Apr. 28, returning Apr. 30 Pat x2036 
COME TO THE ST ED'S CARNIVAL ON APRIL 23 AT STEPAN NOON TO 11 :00 PM YOU'LL HAVE A GREAT TIME! 
BEST &F ALL, IT'S FOR CHARITYII 
I NEED GRAD TIX! CALL MIKE# 1558 
SO CAL CLUB MEMBERS BAGGAGE TRUCK RESERVATIONS CALL JENNIFER 3496 
-···················· 

SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $279 each way on discounted scheduled airlines to Europe from Chicago. Cell (800) 325-2222. 
LOST GREEK BOOKS AND NOTES IN A PURPLE WOVEN STRAW BAG. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL MAURA AT 1759. I REALLY NEED MY NOTES. 
JUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS!!! Meeting for all interested in 
the October Break trip to CANCUN. MEXICO Tuesday, Apr.25 Montgomery Theater, Lafortune 7:00 
JUNIORS-JUNIORS..JUNIORSI!! 
Meeting for all Interested in the October Break trip to CANCUN, MEXICO Tuesday. Apr.25 Montgomery Theater, Lafortune 7:00 
SUNDAY! The St. Edward's Hall CHARITY CARNIVAL 
Dunk Tank, Kissing Booth, Ring Toss Basketball Shoo!, Palm Reading, Clowns, Jugglers. and more! 
Attn.: NOVICE CREW MEMBERS 
Thank you lor making the Crew Classic so enjoyable--you really made my day. I appreciate all your efforts, and wish you much success in Madison. Thanks again for making it all worth a!!! Love, M.K. 
ZETO AND THE HEAT-QNS FRIDAY NIGHT ZETO AND THE HEAT-QNS FRIDAY NIGHT ZETO AND THE HEAT-QNS 
FRIDAY NIGHT EXCELLENT ROCK AND ROLL MUSIC FRIDAY NIGHT AT THEODORE'S!!! 
BAND STARTS AT 10:00 DON'T MISS THEM!!! 
IRISH MUSIC WITH JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS FRIDAY 8-? IT ALL DEPENDS ON HOW MUCH FUN WE'RE HAVING AT CLUB 23 
................................... 

ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS COSTELLO 
II u've decided not 2 go C 
Elvis Costello this Set. I'd like 
to buy your ttx. Cell 3719. 
Hey TODD HARDIMAN! HOW'D U GUESS I WAS PUTTING THIS IN FOR U? 
Don't miss the 
CHARITY CARNIVAL 

Palm Reading, Games, Prolessional Tat­
toos, Music, Dancers, Food and even 
more Games. 

Stepan Center, from noon to 11 p.m. This 
Sunday, April 23 
CALCUTTA RAIN 
Friday Night-10 p.m. 
at Me 'CORMICK'S 
GET WET Live!ll!!!l!! 
CALCUTIA RAIN 
CALCUTTA RAIN 
CALCUTTA RAIN 

Wet at McCORMICK'S Friday Night 
········ ................. . Anyone going to South carolina or S out­hem georgia i need aride home. I will share expanses. I can leave on May 12 after 2. " you can give me a ride call Ed at 272-7398. 
···················································· 

ONE LAST CHANCE--THE CONTENTS OF ROOM 434 LEMANS ARE FOR SALE!!!! (no, not us!) BIG ROYAL BLUE CARPET AND COUCH SECTIONS THAT ALL FIT ROOM ARE FOR SALE AT A GOOD PRICE !I GREAT DEAL FOR THE GIRLS WHO PICKED OUR ROOM FOR THE '89-9-00 YEAR. We must sell. we're getting real apartments after graduation!! call284-5221 or visa rm 434. 
SENIORSII!I!I!!I SENIORSI!!!I!I!I SENIORS!!!!!!!!! OUR BIG WEEKEND BEGINS TODAY!!!!!!! ENJOY THE 
WINDY CITY, DON'T BREAK A HEEL OR RIP YOUR TUX CUTTING THE RUG, AND MAKE THE BEST OF 48hrs OF FREEDOM!!THE FUN HAS JUST BEGUN: SENIOR MONTH BEGINS WHEN YOU COME BACKI!HAVE AN AWESOME TIME. BUT PLEASE: OON'T DRINK AND DRIVE!III! courtesy SMC senior ollicers 
DAVID: A "non--domer" going to Sr. Formal-UGH!! I'm so glad you could make H. The navy has had their chance at you, now I've got mina!! Love always, Rose (ps. no khaki pants and navy blazer at this dance!!Q 
IV'VE GOT GEORGIA ON MY MIND, BUT I CAN'T GET ALL MY THINGS HOME!!! If you're going through the At· lanta area, PLEASE give me a can at 
284-14260. 

ERIN AND LARRY ARE SO CUTE I COULD SPIT! 
--CARA BEAR 

KATHY SULLIVAN...21 at last! Thank God our birthdays are in the summer but for you there is NO ESACAPE. Single men ... CJ's at 9:00 tonight .. Be There. We love you Kathy-Happy Birthday! Love, Tina, Janet & Angie 
Matthew Waters-baby, Te Quiero! 
Coyla, Theresa, Molly and Mary: Get ready for the go" game from HELLII!I 
Hey-ELIZABETH HRYCKO Not only is a Friday, but a's your 20th birthday! Isn't that CRAZY?! Have a great dey!!!!! 
-friends and split--ends always Marie 
My Austrian Princess, Do you remember what happand the Ia time we went to a dance together? Make sure you bring your lacrosse stick and feather boa to Senior Formal. ---Giovanni 
·······························-····-····· ......... 
DECLINE OF WESTERN CIVILIZA­TION: 
THE METAL YEARS starring Aerosmith. Poison. Kiss, Ozzy Osboume, Motorhead, Alice 
Cooper. Megadeth, and more. See the film that shows what heavy metal is all about...the drugs.sex,groupies,and lifestyle. · 
TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 7:30, 9:30 
HIDAG 

Thanks Pop! for bailing me out in my time of need. We'll get this thing done eventually. Have a good weekend! 
--"Jelf" 

DOUG CLARKE--Since you obviously feij slighted that you didn'tget a parsonal. . . Remember 4th of July (in April), crank calls about parietals & dancing on tables. More memories to come? I hopa so! 
....................................................... 
Shawn Wilks I've been watching you this semester. Now I would like to get to know you. 
SENIOR MONTH SENIOR MONTH SENIOR MONTH SENIOR MONTH SENIOR MONTH ITS COMING SOON! 
MALE TO SHARE TOWNHOUSE NEAR NO. CALL TYLER 277-4831 OR 271· 9360 
WELCOME TO N.D., EILEENIII I LOVE YOUIILOVE,ME 
WELCOME, KIM! Let's have a great weekend! -Laura 
................................................... For anyone Interested in helping out wah the production of the St.Edward's HaH Players 90-91 production of "Noises Off". there will be a short meeting on Tues. April 25th at 7:30 in the St. Eds party lounge. If you are interested in ... Direct­Ing, Producing, Stege Managing, Publicity, Tach "Stuff" and Such please a~!!! 
............................................................ We stand in awe of the 5 Meatuses.. 
KATHY, HAVE A GREAT DAY! LOVE, 
RAZ 
T BEAR 

I'M REALLY SORRY ABOUT EVERY­
THING 

THIS WEEKEND WILL BE MUCH BET· 
TER. 

WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A DANDY 
TIME­

LOOKING FORWARD TO ITI I LOVE 
YOU! 
PKIN 
P.S. HAPPY BELATED PASSOVER! 

THROW A PIE AT A CAMPUS CELEBRITYII At BP's Booth in St. Ed's Carnival Here's the schedule for Sunday: 12:00 Matt Breslin 12:30 Dave Kinkopf 1:00 Don Gomez 1 :30 Dean Brown 2:00 Daimon Sweet 2:30 Derek Brown 
3:00 Jamere Jackson 
3:30 Dave Dilucia 
4:00 Tony Rice 
4:30 Rodney Culver 
5:00 Capt. Dewhurst 
5:30 Col. Hanson 
6:00 Michelle Paraiso 
6:30 Judy Hutchinson 
7:00 Coach Noel O'Sullivan 
7:30 Jilanne Klaus 
8:00 Amy Weber 
8:30 Tom Doyle 
9:00 Heidi Bunek 
9:30 Jessica Chiapetta 
10:00 Coach Murphy 
10:30 Michelle LaRose 
...................... 
Happy Birthday, Deblll We hope 1~e is good'!!II Love, US 

KATHY SULUVAN IS 211 HAPPY BIRTHDAY! LOVE, MEAGHAN, MARTH,KATHY 
KATHY BOBEAR TONIGHT AT MIDNIGHT KATHY TURNS 21! HAPPY BIRTHDAY AND HAVE AN AWESOME WEEKEND WITH THE PLUMBER! LOVE, MEG 
AN TOSTAL AN TOSTAL 
IMPERSONATIONS AND COMEDY SIGN UPS. SIGN UP FOR ONE, THE OTHER, OR BOTH CALL 284-5342 ASK FOR JULIE, PENNEY. OR KELLY. AN TOSTAL 
SMC FRESHMAN FORMAL BOXERS "APRIL SHOWERS" ON SALE NOW IN ROOM 507, 510 OF LEMAN! ONLY $5.00111 WHAT A BAR· GAIN! LIMITED SUPPLY-SO BUY NOW 
DEAR DEBBIE, We are all really happy that you found Christ, but our real con­cern is WHERE ARE YOUR RINGS!!! 
JUGS I figured out that the reason you have been feeling sick might have some­thing to do with the disease(s) you picked up tram the! infested bathroom floor you were laying on. I don't know just a quess! 
SIJlned. Concerned 

'I 
page 14 The Observer Friday, April 21, 1989 
Hayes' two-run shot leads Phillies past Bucs 
Mike Schmidt breaks Philadelphia club career hits record in 9-4 victory over cross-state rival 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH--Von Hayes hit a two-run homer and Mike

1 
I 
Schmidt doubled twice to break the Philadelphia club record for career hits Thursday night i as the Phillies beat the Pit­1 tsburgh Pirates 9-4. 
' 
The Phillies scored three

I 
times in the first inning and

I 
\ twice in the second to take a \ 5-l lead against Mike Dunne,
,, 
1-1. ­

) Ken Howell, 2-{), allowed four runs and three hits over six in­,1 nings before Greg Harris
\ 
) pitched two scoreless innings \ and Todd Frohwirth finished \ the game. 
Cardinals 5, Expos 2 

I 
ST. LOUIS--Rookie Ken Hill earned his first major league victory and drove in a run as . 
the St. Louis Cardinals 

l 
defeated Montreal 5-2 
Thursday night, snapping the 
Expos' four-game winning

1 
streak.

I 
) Hill, 1-0, was called up from Class AAA Louisville when the Cardinals lost their third starter this season to injury or illness. He pitched seven-plus 
1 
innings and allowed five hits. 
Astros 4, Braves 3 
ATLANTA--Third baseman Ron Gant's fielding error al­lowed Kevin Bass to score the go-ahead run in the eighth in­ning as the Houston Astros snapped a four-game losing second on a sacrifice by Rafael Ramirez. 

Mets 4, Cubs 3 

NEW YORK--Gregg Jef­feries broke a 1-for-28 slump with a game-tying single and Mookie Wilson's grounder scored the go-ahead run in the seventh inning as the New York Mets beat Chicago 4-3 Thursday night, sending the Cubs to their fourth straight loss. 
Dwight Gooden, 3-0, pitched seven innings and allowed four hits for the victory and Roger McDowell finished for his first save. Gooden improved to 16-3 lifetime against the Cubs. 
Mariners 5, White Sox 
CHICAGO--Ken Griffey Jr. singled home the go-ahead run in the seventh inning as the Seattle Mariners beat Chicago 5~2 Thursday night, sending the White Sox to their fourth straight loss. 
The White Sox have lost eight 


AP Photo Darren Daulton (right) and the Philadelphia Phillies continued their stellar early-season play Thursday night when they defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates 9-4, improving their record to 8-6 on the year. 
of their last 10 games, including McNally's 1973 start even five of six home contests. though the Royals put runners on base in five of the first seven Orioles 2, Royals 0 innings. The left-bander al­lowed seven hits in 81-3 innings and Mark Williamson got the
BALTIMORE--Jeff Ballard 
last two outs for his third save.
became the first Baltimore starter to win his first three Twins 7, Tigers 2 starts in 16 years, leading the Orioles to a 2-0 victory over the MINNEAPOLIS--Carmen 
Kansas City Royals Thursday Castillo's RBI double snapped night. a 2-2 tie and ignited a five-run Ballard matched Dave eighth inning Thursday as the 

ANG & HEIDI... 
streak with a 4-3 victory over the Atlanta Braves Thursday night. 
32
Trailing -, Glenn Davis 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY GJRLSJ!
started the rally with a walk 
off Jim Acker and advance=d~to:__!::===================== 
THE HACIENDA MEXICAN RESTAURANTS are now staffing for spring and summer. Get a head start on that summer job. 

We are hiring at top wages and offer flexible scheduling to accomodate students. We need: 
*COOKS *COCKTAIL SERVERS *DISHWASHERS *FOOD SERVERS *BOSSERS *BARTENDERS 
Minnesota  Twins  defeated  
Detroit 7-2.  
It  was  the  14th  win  in  16  

games for Minnesota over Detroit, whose 3-9 record is the worst in the majors. Detroit has dropped five of its last six 
games overall and eight of its 
last nine at the Metrodome. 
German Gonzalez, 2-0, was the winner with 1 2-3 innings of hitless relief. 
*HOSTS/HOSTESSES *CASHIERS 
Be a part of the fun at Michiana's favorite restaurants Apply in person 11 am-6pm at the Haciendas in: 100 Center, Scottsdale Mall, Indian Ridge Plaza EOEm f 
50% OFF ALL ITEMS IN j THE STORE 
I ; 
Except socks, pillows, fiberfill, furs and Collectors Corner Saturday, April 22nd 
Sf:'\ lOR CITI/T'\ DISCOL'\TS DO :'\OT AI'I'L'{ DLRI'\C THIS SALE 

GOODWILL STORES 
Goodwill Plaza  Western Avenue  
Eddy <tt Howard St.  1805 Western Ave.  
9am-6pm  9am-6pm  


Friday, April21, 1989 
The Observer I E.A. Weisenberger Pat Mohan and the Notre Dame golf team, fresh off their eighth-place finish at the Kepler Invitational, travel to East Lansing, Mich. this weekend to participate in the Spartan Invitational. 
The Observer page 15 
Irish golfers off to Michigan 

By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
Forest Akers West Course in East Lansing, Michigan will challenge the Notre Dame golf team this weekend as the Irish travel to Michigan State for the Spartan Invitational. The Irish are looking to follow last weekend's strong performance at Ohio State's Kepler Inita­tional with a victory at East Lansing. 
"We'd like to win this one since there will only be about ten teams competing," says Irish co-captain Pat Mohan. "If Notre Dame with a three-round score of 229, and teammates Doug Giorgio and Paul Nolta each shot a 332 as the Irish finished eighth out of 22 teams. 
Look for continued success for the Irish this weekend since the Forest Akers Course is very similar to the one at Ohio State. The 54-hole Spartan Invvita­tional will feature teams from the Big 10 and Mid-American conferences as well as major 
independents  from  the  Mid­ 
west.  
"And  Ohio  State  won't  be  

there," added Mohan with relief. "They seem to win all of 
dence from its past successes at Forest Akers West. The Irish won the tournament in 1985 and golfers such as Giorgio (who shot a 230) and Mohan (237) performed very well at the Spartan Invite last year. If these golfers repeat their past performances, don't be surprised if Notre Dame brings home a championship trophy this weekend. 

Three coaches indicted in South Carolina scandal 
we play like we did in the first 
these things." 
Associated Press

couple of rounds last weekend

HAPPY21st BIRTHDAY 
at Ohio State, we'll be in good 
With Ohio State's absence, COLUMBIA, S.C.--Three
shape."


STEPHANIE 
the Irish stand an excellent former South Carolina assis­chance of coming out on top tant football coaches were in­The Irish did indeed shoot this weekend. dicted Wednesday for allegedly well at Ohio State. Mohan led Notre Dame will gain confi-providing athletes with anabolic steroids, and a fourth was charged with importing the muscle-building drug into
Happy 21st Birthday, Kathy 
the state. 

The indictments came as Athletic Director King Dixon
April22nd 

said South Carolina reopened an internal investigation into the charges. The university probe was halted after the grand jury investigation 
" 
ttJu-e, 
began. 

James W. washburn, Thomas 
Oart; ;fftJM, 8/"art; 8tJtJ &[)Pj 
E. Gadd and Thomas Kurucz were charged with ''conspiring to conduct a program of illegal steroid use by members of the 


Summer 
athletic community, ... partic­ularly by . . . the university's football team.,., The coaches al­legedly encouraged and monitored the progress of the 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Karen 
athletes using steroids. The three coaches also were 




STORAGE 

~ ..../---., 
charged with importing

RESERVATION 
steroids into South Carolina
N!-}r(:G 

and dispensing the drug with­
out prescriptions.


""~i!!!!!!~~~~


CALL NOW 

683-1959 
':"'{ FREE TANNING
NEW 



LEARN 

., ~ with every Purchase! 
Limited Quantity 
\ ' ~\· FOR AVERY UMITED nME! 


CPR,

'f:\ ~ ~, 1; (WITH THIS AD)
ONLY $18.001nonth 
\/. . . \' FOR DETAILS ••• 
\ / · \ · ~ stop in to see our 


PLEASE.

Master Mini Warehouses 
· · ~ ~~j salon. or call us at ... 
Toke a l1fesav1ng 
Red Cross CPR course.

P.O. BOX 100 NILES. MICHIGAN 49120 
/.~. \• ·. . 272-7653 "BEST UTILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 
+American Red Cross ri!1 
LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL ACCEPTING RESERVATIONS

Jfmi~~ 
for Notre Dame Graduation 
May 19, 20, 21 {219) 234-4063 University Commons, St. Rd. 23, South Bend, ln. ~ 


S. 

Water Aerobics Class -NVA 
Evenings Monday & Wednesday
tlrT(JROirf( t1fR!!22 
Time Changed from 6: 45 to 5: 20
rr======~i======~ 
We start Mon, April 24th
SATURDAY. APRIL 22 
4:00 PM MOOSE KRAUSE STADIUM 
Come out and Have a 
FREE ADMISSION 
ADWOBKS 

Good Swim 




page 16 The Observer 
-------~-------­

NO tennis will host Spartans 
By BOB MITCHELL stellar year. Michigan State four out of the six players that Sports Writer have posted a 4-9 overall record knocked off the Irish. Morover, with a dismal 0-5 record in the the Spartans have added fresh­
Notre Dame men's tennis Big 10. man Grant Asher to their dual match against Michigan Michigan State has had a lineup who holds the No. 1 po­State on Saturday pits two poor year for what they should sition. coaches who are on opposite be," said Bayliss. "They are "Asher is an all court player side of the spectrums in their not as good as we are and it is who likes to come to the net carreer. The Spartans' Head a match we expect to win when he can," said Bayliss who Coach Stan Droubac is in his however I think we should be is also concerned with the Spar­32nd and final year at the helm ready to play." tan's No. 2 player. "Santiago of the Michigan St. program. The Irish are coming off a Cash is a South American who While Irish skipper Bob Bayliss very impresive showing at the likes to play on clay." is in only his second year of his MCC Tournament last For the Irish, Coach Bayliss quest to turn the Notre Dame weeekend. Notre Dame won all proffesses that execution and program into a national level 27 matches on route to captur­the timing of the match are in team. ing all six singles champion­the home team's
t 
I 
ships and all three doubles advantage.The Irish have not "I've known him since 1970 championship, losing only won played a dual match since April and at that time he was the set the entire weekend. 4. 
I 
president of the ITCA," said "Execution is very impor­Bayliss. "I'm really looking "The MCC will be a positive" tant this weekend," said forward to seeing Stan said Bayliss. "It has to help us. Bayliss. "If we play the kind of Droubac. Over the years he has It made us more familiar tennis we have shown we can been a real leader in collegiate playing outdoors than Mic­play we will be fine. The big­tennis. It will be a real honor higan State." gest thing going fo r us is the for us to play them here in one The 16-9 Irish squad is pace. For the rest of the season of his last collegiate matches." looking to avenge last year's 5-4 we only play on weekends. As for Droubac's final squad, loss to the Spartans at East Everybody will be well 
the Spartans have not had a Lansing. The Spartans return rested." 
Friday, April 21, 1989 
Tennis

1 
\ continued from page 20 
l player, Shawn Foltz, currently 
I is ranked sixth in the nation and should provide a for­midable challenge for CeCe Cahill. The two played last fall at the Rolex Regional with Foltz winning in straight sets. 
"CeCe was coming off an in­jury, but Foltz is great," said Gelfman. "CeCe will have to concentrate on controlling the match and not give in to Foltz's game-plan.'' 
Foltz, a junior, has played on the pro circuit and was ranked as high as 50th in the world. 
The most interestng match­up should occur when Indiana's Stephanie Reece and Kelly Mulvihill take on Cahill and partner Tracy Barton in the number-one doubles meeting. The Reece-Mulvihill tandem are second in the nation while Cahill and Barton are ninth. 
"That match will be anyone's ball game," predicted Gelfman. "We have been playing great doubles and haven't had real intense com­petition. We know we're the un­derdog and we are going to try and take it from them." 
Indiana also has players at the numbers 35, 57, 63 and 72 spots in the nation, while the three doubles pairs are all in the top 40. Cahill and Barton are Notre Dame's only ranked singles players, at numbers 60 and 70, respectively. 
The Irish are coming off a 5-4 loss to Northwestern Tuesday. 
The  defeat  snapped  an  11­ 
match winning streak.  
"We had them and  we  let  

them off the hook," explained Gelfman. "I knew it could go either way and the girls played well, but we hate to lose." 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
doubleheader will start at 4 p.m., and the Sunday doubleheader will begin at 12 p.m. 
Junior outfielder Dan Peltier led off the scoring for the Irish in the first inning when he doubled off the centerfield wall to score Pat Pesavento, who had walked and stolen second. Pesavento was 1-for-1 with three walks, two stolen bases and three runs scored. Peltier 
came around to score on a 
James Sass sacrifice fly, 
making the score 2-0

I In the second inning, with
)l Paul Lange on first and Pat Eilers on second, Mike Coss singled to left, scoring Eilers.
l: 
Mter a bunt-single by

l: Pesavento, freshman Craig 
J Counsell delivered a bases­loaded single to right to score Paul Lange and Coss. Dan Pel­tier followed with a fly ball to score Pesavento, making the score 6-0 after two innings. 
The Irish scored two runs in the fourth to take a command­ing 8-1 lead, and scored four more in the fifth to make it 12-1. In that inning, Peltier hit a two­run double in which the leftfielder and centerfielder collided, giving him four RBI and two doubles on the day. The two doubles gave Peltier a total of 19 for the season, two short of the school record of 21 that Peltier set last season. 
In the sixth, freshman Mike Rotkis hit his first homerun of the season over the rightfield 

·. 
=RIB~
SF.WJD~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 
.-*'--~· ......·•·.. , 

fence. It made the score 14-1. tainly be ready this year. In last weekend, a team the Irish beaten 5-4 by the Titans for its 
ABOUT DETROIT: Many of their last 25 innings, the Irish beat in four straight two weeks first loss in the MCC tourna­the games with Detroit last have scored 48 runs...Detroit ago...Notre Dame was 3-1 ment. season were high-scoring con­is currently 12-15-1 after split­against Detroit in the regular Evansville defeated Detroit for tests, and the Irish should cer-ting four games with Xavier season last year, but was the MCC title . 
~---------------------1 
I Europe! II This Summer 1 
I, 

Your Europe Travel CenterI
I -....-........ 
Lowest airfares to Europe 
I 
"""'LI;.;,,_ Eurail passes, rail information 1 VISA assistance I Assistance with tours, Individual II I
itineraries, hotels, student travel 
I For Your Summer Trip to Europe CAII:I I Seven Seas Travel 
I 

1 525 North Michigan Street 
l_______s:~t~~~i~~~~-_j 
SENIORS 

WONDERING WHAT TO DO AFfER GRADUATION? THINKING ABOUT TAKING A YEAR OFF BEFORE LAW SCHOOL? OR MEDICAL SCHOOL? 
A CHICAGO LAW FIRM IS LOOKING FOR PEOPLE WITH AN INTEREST IN LAW OR WITH AN INTEREST IN THE MEDICAL FIELD. 
IF THIS SOUNDS INTERESTING TO YOU PLEASE SIGN UP AT THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT 
CENTER  OR  AT  COUNSELING  AND  CAREER  
DEVELOPMENT CENTER AT ST. MARY'S.  WE WILL  
BE  CONDUCTING  INTERVIEWS  AT  ST.  MARY'S  

AND NOTRE DAME MONDAY APRIL 24TH. 
Terrence M. Johnson 
For more information The Monadnock Bldg
please write or call: 53 W. Jackson Blvd Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 922-4022 

Saturday's Movie 
·STUDENT·UNION·BOARD· 
Friday's Movie 

Beverly Hills Cop 

Showtime: 8:00 and 10:15 Place: 1 Engineering Auditorium Price: $2.00 
Friday, April 21, 1989 The Observer page 17 
Ohio Wesleyan next up for upstart ND lacrosse 
Irish look to defense to continue stenar play as they put seven-game winning streak on line 
By PETE LaFLEUR 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will play their own ver­sion of the "Blue-Gold" game Saturday when it faces the ominously black-clad Battling Bishops of Ohio Wesleyan Uni­versity at "Moose" Krause Field. 
The Irish (7-3) are riding a school-record seven-game win­ning streak and face off against the Bishops (9-1) at 4 p.m., not at 1:30 p.m. as previously publicized. 
But no matter when they play, the Irish know they will need full efforts in many areas if they are to chip away at OWU's 8-0 series edge. The team will be looking for the same type of effort that has propelled it to three-goal, upset wins over Air Force and Denison, games that respec­tively mark the start and the most recent win of the current streak. 
"I think it's important that our defense really play well," said Irish coach Kevin Cor­rigan. "We will also have to ride and clear well and we'll have to have possession. 
"It's important that we make them play the whole field and we'll also need to be able to cut off their transition." 
Little breaks "here and there" could play an important role in the game and vocal fan support will be more important than ever, according to senior tri-captain John Olmstead. 
"In a game like this, when you're playing such a good team, if they can see that we have good support, that could help," said Olmstead, the Irish aJI-time assists leader. 
"If anything, a good crowd will help us, especially if the score is close and we need to be working hard." 
The Notre Dame defense will 
again key the Irish effort, as 
Corrigan noted. The defense 
has allowed an impressively 
low 6.4 goals per game this 
year while using seven veteran 
players in the regular rotation. 
The Irish defense is coming off an impressive last two games, in which they allowed a combined six goals. But the defensive unit knows they will face their stiffest test of the year against the Bishops, who were ranked second in Division III last week. 
"Our defense is playing well and we're going to need a very good game from them," Cor­rigan said. "Ohio Wesleyan is a team that does score very well and if we give up 17 goals like we did last year, we know we can't win. 
"In that way, we're realis­tic," he continued. "All year we've tried to hold the opponent under 10 goals and, if we can do that Saturday, then we could be in a position where we could win it." 
Last year Ohio Wesleyan jumped out to an 8-0 halftime edge on their way to disman­tling Notre Dame 17-1 in Dela­ware, Ohio. In that game, the Bishops outshot the Irish 40-18 and won 15 of 21 faceoffs while Notre Dame converted only 

Freshman goaltender Tom Duane (far right) and the rest of the Irish defense will play a key role Saturday when the Notre Dame lacrosse team takes on Ohio Wesleyan at "Moose" Krause Stadium. 
one of nine man-up opportuni­ties. 
The streaking Irish are in perhaps their best position to upset Ohio Wesleyan since 1983, when they battled the Bis­hops to a 14-12 loss. Ohio Wes­leyan has always scored in bunches against Notre Dame, scoring 12 or more goals in each of their eight victories. The Bishops tallied 16 or more scores in five of those games, including the last four wins. 
But the Irish depth on defense should enable them a fighting chance against the Battling Bishops, according to senior tri-captain Doug Spen­cer. 
"Every time they turn around, we'll be able to throw fresh legs at them," Spencer said. "We have no worry to put any member of our defense on the field because we know he'll hold up his end." 
This season the Bishops ap­pear to have as potent an at­tack as ever. Mter losing a close 9-8 game with Cortland State last week, Ohio Wesleyan bounced back to pound Ohio State 20-4 Wednesday. 
Ohio State hosts the Irish April 29 in a game that could determine the NCAA tourna­ment western bid. But the Irish are concentrating for now on Ohio Wesleyan and they plan to change little on the offensive end, according to Olmstead. 
"We're not going to approach the game any differently than any other game," he said. "We'll just go out and do what has helped us to win, and that's play as a team. 
"There's no reason for us to be intimidated by anything." 


Charity Carnival 
Sunday~ April 23 Stepan Center 
12:00-11 :00 pm 
Raffle Food Fun Prizes
ND and SMC Faculty and Staff Invited 
---·-------------------------------------­

IES!. •• :e ,f4 ~ -""-~""·..,,,,..,......,_,..,.,..,.,,lA ... ...~~;,.• A":'i:.<::S#i'S::::!!·:!J'l~~..
...¥"'4;';.-:::.......> .~··-=....,.,~;::~""'· ___.42!1!1'l.":'-.·,....'!!-.!-__,__"!!!'t•a---~-· ·~-~~--"'l··~,.......,~~?-~ .,._.... ll!tCI!I!!I>-.t!"!'"~·-·~.,_:"'!.~--"!!'-'!!!'I.----•...,,---"'!l:w
____.,____-s-•-IIIIIIAI!I!...IIII!;•.-..111##.-, 
Friday, April21, 1989 
Bookstore results for end of second week 
Bookstore Tournament 
Thursday's Results 

Stepan 1 4:00-Clockwork Orange over Maureen McFadden's a fabulous babe by 10 4:45-Malicious Prostitution over The Masters: Disciples of ... by 16 
5:20 -Kent's Gelling Married over Harvey Firestein & 4 Other Guys by 11 6:15-Mother Goose over Lotuses by 2 
Stepan 2 

4:00 · Get off our tips over Love Handles by 10 
4:45 -T eetles & the 4 R:ps over The 2nd Book of Maca bees by 2 
5:30 • Gauchos over Dr. Love & the Passion Quartet by 12 6:t5-Coach's over So much like the Beatles by 9 
Stepan 3 4:00-Lenny's American Grill over Asmadeus & the Clameaters by 13 
4:45 -The Fellas over Freak by 2 
5:30 -The Good, the bad. the laundry over Dr. Ruth's Soldiers of Sex by 14 6:15-The Big Dudes over 5 Nondescript Guys by 3 
Stepan 4 

4:00 -Medicine in Motion & a history guy over Supreme Dorks by 3 4:45-The Cotton Club over The Violaters by 4 
5:30 -Small But Huge over Big Ball Boys by 3 
6:15 -Swishkbob over G-men by 9 
Stepan 5 4:00-Murphy's Men over Not A Chance in Hell by t3 4:45-Ripper & the Undertows II over Nasty Norm & the Gnashing ... by 12 
5:30 -Air Chek & Ground Support over Acta Sanctorum by 3 6:15-Jerry's Kids over Fighting Kernels by 2 
Stepan 6 

4:00 -The Mephistophelian Meatuses over We're Better than a sharp stick . by 9 4:45-Adworks Allstars over Jeff & 4 Skins by 18 
5:30 -CJ's Pub over The Rectifiers by 11 6:15-4 Troopers & a hairless wonder over Don·t Shoot Skip by 2 
Bookstore 9 

4:00 -Corporate Raiders over The Ke~:c Savants by 2 
4:45 -4 Men & a Red-headed Stepchild over WNOU by 9 
5:30 -It's all about Disn' Cous over 4 Guys who fill a lane by t 2 6:15-No I Team over AAAUUGH by 11 
Bookstore 10 4:00-4 Guys who like girls & a Oillonrte over Ebert & the Rockers by 12 
4:45 . Duke & the Dongs over A Really Bad Cough by 2 
5:30 -MBA's over Barry Switzer. AI Capone .... by 4 6:15-The Faculty Jokes over E-Z Cats by 3 

Grad Students, Professors, Employees 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

• Pool, Clubhouse • locked intercom entrances 
* Washer & dryer in each apartment • flexible leases ( also -furnished executive suites ) @ 
EQUAl HOUSING
call for details-277-3731 
IJ'PORTUNm 

Not Going to Senior Formal? 
No Problem, We're Still Open. 
Check us out FRIDAY and SATURDAY 9:00p.m. -2:00a.m. 
*No FRIDAY LUNCH this week 4/21/89 
.. 
page 18 The Observer SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Blue-Gold Game will be held Saturday, April22, at 1:30 p.m. in the stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at gates 15 and 16. Spouses and children must have a ticket. General admission tickets for the public are available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday at gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. 
Adult tickets are $3 in advance and $4 game day. Youth tickets are $1.50 in advance and $2 the day of the game. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball is looking for referees to start on Monday, April 24. The pay has increased to $8 per game. Call Jeff at x1504 for more information. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore plagued by forfeits, schedule mixups 
By HEATHER ATKINSON show their faces, as did Aunt Hairy Bufflao, Shaggy Bison Saint Mary's Sports Editor Flo and the Four Plugs, when and Three Other Party Four Virgins and A Marlot did Animals, 21-1. Noreen Wolohan 
Five of the Women's not report for the game. and Maureen Deignan's eight . Bookstore Basketball games and seven points, respectively, that were originally slated to No Surrender refused to give crushed Christy Palmer's bas­be played on Monday, but were in until the very end of the ket, the only for her team. unable to take place due to game, and made it difficult for Fawn Hall, Jessica Hahn and scheduling problems, were their competition to gain the Three Others Easy To Score On played yesterday. victory. Despite Jackie Uhll's made We Need $50 pay and 
The forfeit craze continued contribution of 14 baskets, ended the game early by a as two of the teams advanced Keith, John, Flanner and Two score of 15-0 due to the lengthy in the tournament due to the Other Worthless Towers overall playing time of their failure of their opponents to defeated their opponents by a game. show up. An Angel, Sally's final score of 24-22. Julie Comet and Three Other Bernhardt and Cathy Olson The next rounds in the Wo­Heavenly Bodies moved a step each tossed in 8 baskets to tie men's Bookstore Basketball closer to the final round when as the top scorers for the con­competition will be on Tues­Five Most Undesirable Basket­querors. day, April 25 on the courts of 
ball Players decided not to Orange Crush slayed the Stepan Center. 
Kids nicked Fighting Kernels In other close contests, Mot­23-21, Duke and the Dongs her Goose edged Lofuses 21-19, edged A Really Bad Cough 22-Teetles and the 4 Rips downed· 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 

.( 20 and 4 Troopers and a Hair­The 2nd Book of Macabees 21-19 Joe Sternberg led Malicious less Wonder shot down Don't and The Corporate Raiders Prostitution with 9-of-11 shoot­Shoot Skip 22-20. beat The Keltie Savants 21-19. 
I 
·, ing, while Jim Flynn tossed in ) five baskets. Coach's eased past So Much Like the Beatles 21-11. Jim 

Now 
Dolan hit a blistering 9-of-10 from the field, while John She's A McCabe and Jay Hayes added six hoops each. 
Diver! 
Kent Graham hit 5-of-6 shots to lead Kent's Getting Married 
Happy
to a 21-10 win against Harvey Firestein and 5 Other Guys, 
19th

while Ricky Watters exploded for nine points in It's All About Love,Disin' Cous' 21-9 romp over 4 
Mom, Dad, 
Guys Who Fill a Lane. 

Several teams had difficult Karen & Kathy roads to the round of 64. In overtime games, The Fellas got past Freak 23-21, Jerry's 
QRSAt W--'LL Best Taste! 
. e' CIIIIEIE·a.:IICAIIIESTAIUIT t sest pnc · t Aullelllto laechu8ft 8ftd Hunen T.... Lunch special only $3.45 Bealcnanml:l:" 7 clcrya I Includes: 
Dinner special t Mc:a.-Thun.ll:30 1.1111 to 10 pm. F 11:30 am toll Pll A 1. Daily soup only $4 95 tL ch Slm.&Bolldcrrall:30aaatol0pn $3 45 ' 2. Egg Roll(Aegul~r $7.25) ';111 es stczr:ting at_----• t 3. Fried Rice 
Fried Gold Honey Chickoot Dinners starting at_-----$4.95 a with this coupon Banquet..Rooma IIV•IIIIble for up to 200 ' 4. One Entree until Feb. 28,1989 130 Dixie Hwy.• Bonlaad (-..eo llaaolaU'•IaD) 272-7376 
Bertles Volkswagon New Fox GL Wagon 
(J
'·
1;: 

p 
$8695.00* 

! 
Equipped with air conditioning, stereo cassette, rear wiper & roof rack ~ includes financing assistance plan & destination, add taxes & fees 
@BERTLES~ 
mama 
52203 U.S. 31/33 North

........................... 2 ..72~~0.~:.~~~-E-1:~:~:.~.6........................... 
Friday, April 21, 1989 
The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
FRIDAY ACROSS 25 Raise upright 56 Hidden hazards 2 p.m. Snite Museum of Art Lecture: "Hollywood and the 27 "Wright on'" offshore 
1 God whose 

Stars," Brenda Madden, Snite Museum staff. Prince Drawing event 58 Hardy riding 
dragon Cadmus 
and Photography Gallery. 
killed 30 Eagle's horse 5-avis 60 Lots and lots of
penthouse

4:~0 P·~· ND Dept. of Mat~ematics Colloquium, "On Singular 
34 Naval auxiliary lots
9 Picasso or

Dll"ectJOns of Meromorph1c Functions " Dr. Huaihui Chen 
craft

Nanjing Normal University. Room 226, Computing Center. ' Casals 61 Vast 
36 Fits to-­

14 Hindu god 62 Ex-manager of
37 Lintel

8:10p.m. "Power and the Glory," Washington Hall. 15 Soprano the Mets Mitchell's 39 Oater or omelet 63 Model
SATURDAY 
hometown 41 Helper for a prin. Macpherson
Noon Baseball vs. University of Detroit. 
16 Annie Hall's 42 An avatar of 
1 p.m. ND Men's Tennis vs. Michigan State, Eck Pavilion. 64 Fateful Roman 
creator Vishnu 
1:30 p.m. Lacrosse vs. Ohio Wesleyan, Moose Krause Field. date
17 Winter pelter 44 Gobi explorer 65 Foxier19 Ward (off) 45 Evangelist's
1:30 p.m. Blue Gold Game, Gate 15 & 16; tix available at gate 
20 Retinue advice 66 Dems.
10. 
21 Vladimir Popov 47 Italian wine opponents commune
8:10p.m. "Power and the Glory," Washington Hall. is one 67 Boniface. in 22 Posture 491nsolent Bologna SUNDAY 23 Set forth 51 Jazz enthusiast 
12:30 p.m. Baseball vs. University of Detroit. 
DOWN 2 p.m. ND Dept. of Music Violin Recital, Dan Rizner, Assistant 1 Campfire 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE
Professor of Music, Depauw University and Pianist Claude 
residue Cymerman. Annenberg Auditorium. 
2 Mirthful 

3 Broadway hit ­musical 12 Counterclock­30 Opera by Salieri 48 Scottish feudal 
3:10p.m. "Power and the Glory," Washington Hall. 
4 Elegant living wise 31 Scottish Gaelic lords 
room

MENUS 13 Lulu 32 Bronx cheer 50 Cavalry weapon 5 Corner again 
52 Dr. Salk's target 33 Meddle18 Coins of 

6 Puzzler's wild ox Ecuador 35 "--the night 53 Some Yalies before. " 54 Item of value Notre Dame Saint Mary's 7 Impostors 24 Despicable 38 Leavings 55 Knight's steel 
Pierson Turkey Sandwich Fish Parisienne 8 Revoke, as a 26 College in Mich. splint
40 Screen·legacy
Seafood Platter Beef Tacos 28 Founder of 43 Central fixture 56 Cry in a Schulz 
9 Spaghetti and 
Mushroom Stroganoff Vegetable Kabobs Fathers of the for a spring creation 
ravioli Oratory

Yankee Pot Roast Deli Bar dance 57 College subj 29 Home of the 46 Former Egyptian 59 Trashy 11 Covered Vols president magazine 
COMICS 
BERKE BREATHED GARY LARSON 
BLOOM COUNTY THE FAR SIDE 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WA HERSON 
M'{ "ICCUPS A.R£ GONt! 1\1(~ FIN~LL'i 'fi£NT A.WA'{ 

M..L B'{ TI\£MS£l\/£5 .' WWIT A RELIEF! \ 

5~"~ 

"1-2.1 

0 1980 ChroniCa. F_.uret 
01s!rrbuted by Unl\4rul Pres' SyndiCal• 

"No! No! Not that! Not the pit! 




• 

Questions? /989
Call 239-6171 
------~----------...... 

Sports
page 20 Friday, April 21, 1989 
NO baseball drops Tri-State 
\' 
>,, 
' ' ' in three-hour extravaganza 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO pinch-hitters, but Madsen got have a game like this." the only hit. Sophomore David Legus,
Sports Writer 

"As an RBI man, my job is who pitched all of two innings 
Erik Madsen was looking for to take three cuts," joked Mad­last year and two innings this a first-pitch fastball from the sen. "I had been studying the season prior to Thursday, intimidating Tri-State pitcher, pitcher and I figured he'd be picked up the win. He allowed 
and he got it. coming first-pitch fastball. I four hits, two walks and one run 
With one out in the bottom of guessed right, and there it in six innings, striking out four. the eighth inning, pitcher Erik was." He is now 1-0. Madsen showed his versatility Head Coach Pat Murphy con­"Dave Legus did a nice job 
as a ballplayer when he sent a sidered Madsen's future as a holding back the hitters," said Jim Paulick fastball screaming hitter. Murphy. "I'm trying to see if back to second base, and with "We had been thinking about Legus can ever pitch in a big the benefit of a bad hop and a using Madsen in the DH role game for us against the generous official scorer, it was all year," said the optimistic lefthander, if he can throw an RBI single. coach. "That thought lasted strikes and maintain his com­
Madsen's performance was about one second." posure. It looks like today he appropriate for the wild, three­Amidst all of the Erik Mad­really did that." hour and 15-minute game sen hype, there was a baseball The Irish, 28-7, now set their which saw the Irish beat Tri­game that used 26 Notre Dame sights for a four-game homes­State 16-5. In the top of the ninth baseball players, 13 of them tand this weekend against MCC 
inning, the Irish had Madsen, freshmen, in the Irish rout. rival Detroit. All games will be Brian Piotrowicz, and Mike "It's good to play a baseball at Stanley Coveleski Regional Coffey (all pitchers) playing game like this and have some Stadium, home of the South 
The Observer I Paul Compton outfield. Madsen's single was of the younger kids play," sa~d Bend White Sox. The Saturday Third baseman Mike Coss and the Notre Dame baseball team easily part of a unique inning which Murphy. "We've got 19 fresh­
saw four pitchers filling in as men on this club so it's nice to see IRISH I page 16
handled Tri-State in a home game Thursday afternoon. The Irish will move to South Bend's Covaleski Stadium this weekend to face Detroit 
in a pair of doubleheaders. Eighth-ranked 
Indiana to host
Bookstore veterans women's tennis 
By CHRIS COONEY
exert their authority 
Sports Writer 

By GREG GUFFEY ney's top hopefuls saw action. The members of the Notre Assistant Sports Editor The field is now down to 64 with Dame women's tennis team no games slated for this will face their toughest chal­
Some of the names have weekend. The champion will lenge of the season when they changed, but the result is still have to win six games in the travel to Bloomington this Sat­the same for the defending next seven games. urday to face Indiana. Bookstore Basketball cham­Clockwork Orange advanced The eigth-ranked Hoosiers pions. to the fourth round with an easy are 22-3 this year, with their 
Adworks All Stars rolled into 21-11 win over Maureen only losses coming to Stanford, the round of 64 Thursday after­McFadden Is a Fabulous Babe. Miami and Kentucky. Indiana noon with a 21-3 romp over Jeff Don Sharp paced the winners also boasts five nationally­and 4 Skins. It was the third with eight points, while Tom ranked players and the consecutive rout in the tourney Kraus added seven and Frank number-two doubles team on for Adworks and the team has Starns five. the collegiate charts. 
~ ~ ~ j outscored its opponents 63-12. "We got our fast break going Those stat:; may seem over­
i.'.\ 
Tony Rice, one of the new­today," Starns said. "We had a whelming, but Irish head coach comers to this year's squad, lot of 5-on-1's against them. Michele Gelfman claims her paced Adworks with seven bas­Maureen McFadden is one 15-5 squad has nothing to lose. kets and John Buscher, a mem­fabulous babe, but I don't feel "They are definitely a ber of last year's champs, bad about beating her team." strong, consistent team with a added five. Malicious Prostitution lot of depth," commented 

"This year's team has more showed no mercy again Gelfman, "but we have nothing unity," Buscher said. "It's a lot Thursday, whipping The to lose and everything to gain. tighter-knit team. We haven't Masters: Disciples of the We're going to try to play our played that good of competi­Death Ball, 21-5. No team has own game and take some tion, so it's kind of hard to tell yet scored over five points matches from them." 
how good we're going to be." against Malicious Prostitution. Bookstore Basketball XVIII action continued Thursday as the field of The Hoosiers' top singles Adworks victory came on a 128 began to take shape. No games are scheduled over the weekend day when several of the tour-see HOOPS I page 18 as the second round concludes on Friday. see TENNIS I page 16 




I p:~
' I I \ 

I;­
I ~; . 
f 
I, 
i I ~ 
New college football plan skirts real problem 
The purpose of college athletics, or so we would 
(The entire proposal appears in the Viewpoint like to believe, is to provide entertainment for the section of today's Observer.) 
Theresa
fans as they enjoy the physical efforts of gifted Although I believe there is merit in much of the student athletes. Kelly proposal, I think it is an ineffective way of shoving In some cases, that purpose is extended to provide the problem aside, rather than combatting the prob­a college education to students to whom it would lems where they start. The problems affect every­
Sports Editor
otherwise be unavailable. one involved in college athletics, not just those who The reality of college athletics is getting the best break the rules. athletes at all costs (students by definition or not), leges and universities in the United States that do, Carberry and Chilsholm have a list of 19 possible
putting them into pressure-filled situations and or at least have not been found not to, avoid scandal schools (including Notre Dame), which are covering up their problems instead of working to and abide by rules and laws. These schools, presumed to have higher criteria, or to be pursuing solve them. however, still compete on the playing field with the higher criteria, for athletic as well as academic 
This is not to say that athletes are victims of the rule benders, ignorers, and breakers. eligibility. The schools are arranged regionally, system. Many take advantage of their status and Dr. James J. Carberry, a professor of chimical which would form the league, members of which "athletic immunity" to break their school's rules, engineering at Notre Dame, and D' Arcy Chisholm, woultt abide by the guidelines the proposal stes not to mention federal laws. Assocaite Director of the Institute for Pastoral and forth. 
Social Ministry, have written "A Modest Proposal The proposal includes no freshman elegibility, no 
The problems we see at Southern Methodist, Illi­Regarding Intercollegiate Football," the purpose redshirting, and no spring practice. nois, Texas A&M and, most notably, Oklahoma, of which is "to reduce, if not arrest the decline of Carberry and Chisholm are working to draw at­are, in all likelihood, the tip of the iceberg. Infrac­the true meaning and amateur spirit of intercol­tention to their ideas and are encouraging debate tions are far greater than accusations, and the polic­legiate football competition ...(suggest) the forma­on the issue. I'd like to do the same. Read the pro­
ing system in the NCAA is, as yet, unable to keep tion of a National Ivy League of some dozen schools posal in Viewpoint (no, this is not an ad), and you up with the rulebreaking. of broad geographical character yet marked by can send your opinions to me at The Observer, P.O. 
Despite all that gloom and doom, there are col-comparable academic and athletic aspirations." Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

... 
at 1:30 p.m. COT 

Tickets available Notre Dame Stadium 

Tony Rice plays the role of field general for the Notre Dame football team. Rice and fellow out with Irish assistant coach Pete Cordelli, who took over the job of coaching the quar­quarterbacks Kent Graham, Steve Belles, Pete Graham and Mike Miadich have worked terbacks from Lou Holtz 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 
For the first time since Lou Holtz took over as head coach for the Notre Dame football team, someone else is keeping an eye on the quarterbacks for him. 
Usually, Holtz takes on most of the coaching himself in that department, but this year he named Assistant Coach Pete Cordelli quarterback coach, al­lowing an assistant to take over. 
And what a job. Notre Dame has a history of turning out ex­ceptional quarterbacks, and this year's crop has its own candidate for the position, Tony Rice. 
"It's a great opportunity to work with them," Cordelli says. "I can give them my full attention, and that's something that hasn't been possible in the three years we've been here." 
Lack of attention is usually not a problem you think about when discussing Notre Dame quarterbacks. 
Rice is already attracting at­tention as a potential Hesiman Trophy winner in 1989. The 6-1, 200-pound junior led the Irish to the National Championship, and Irish fans who complained that Notre Dame didn't have a passing game watched him im­prove dramatically. 

"Tony's gotten better," Cor­delli says. "In the fall, you could see him get better every week. In the spring, he's picked up where he left off." 
Rice says it hasn't been quite that easy this spring. He missed practices for academic reasons, but returned for the final scrimmage before Satur­day's Blue-Gold game, in which he will play on both sides. 
"Things have been going pretty good," Rice says. "It's taking some time, going a little slow. I'm very pleased with what progress we're making, but we all know it doesn't stop here. 
"I got a little behind," Rice says of his missed appearances on the practice field. "I had to do what I had to do.. .I had to catch up." 
Rice led the Irish in total of­fense last season, averaging 171 yards per game. He averaged 5.8 yards per carry on the ground and completed 51 percent of his passes. He threw for eight touchdowns and ran for nine more. 
In the Fiesta Bowl against West Virginia, Rice was 7-for­11 for 213 yards and two touch­downs, plus he ran for 75 yards on 13 carries. Cordelli expects the imporvement to continue. 
"Now we're working to move him to the next level," Cordelli says. "We want him to consis­tently pass as well as he runs. He's right on schedule. He's doing a fine job this spring. 
"We want to work on improv­ing his knowledge of the game. He's been in the system for three years, he knows what we're trying to do. We want him to get a feel for everything that can happen in a game. He'll be able to anticipate things, both good and bad. He's progressed in that respect this spring." 
Rice finds himself in a new role in 1989, that of a tri-captain of the Notre Dame team. But to him, it's a matter of delega­tion. 
"The three captains got the seniors together, and we said that all the seniors were really the captains," Rice says. "We decided that it was important for every one of the seniors to be leaders on the field. I think we're moving in the right di­rection." 
Rice is backed up at the quar­terback spot by Kent Graham and Steve Belles. Senior Pete Graham is another man looking for a backup role, but he injured his shoulder and was unable to participate in most of the spring drills. Freshman Mike Miadich has also turned some heads this spring. 
"We all work well together," Rice says of the quarterbacks. "It's always a team effort, not an individual one." 
"They're a close group," Cordelli says. "It's been a lot of fun working with them. They respond well to coaching, and they work together well. All the quarterbacks are improving their level of play. Kent Graham, Steve Belles, Pete Graham, they're all getting better. Miadich has done a heck of a job." 
The other players realize they might be overshadowed by the presence of Rice, but they say they enjoy the chal­lenge. 
"Right now, we're there to back up Tony if he needs it," said Belles, one of seven fifth­year seniors on the Irish squad. "We want to help each other out. Everyone is pushing everyone else." 
Junior Kent Graham was the top sub last season, completing 16-of-25 passes for 144 yards. Belles appeared at both quar­terback and tailback for the Irish and completed two of his four passes. Pete Graham went one better, going three-of-four, but both of Belles' passes were for touchdowns. 
The quarterbacks, like everyone else, are looking for­ward to returning to the playing field in the fall. 
"I'll tell you, I wouldn't be coming back if I didn't think we'd go 13-0. We have an extra game this year, and the team goal is to go one better than last year." 


page 2 The Observer Blue-Gold Game Edition, April 21, 1989 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame fans should have no trouble noticing the players on the field at Saturday's Blue­Gold Game, since the Irish return 16 starters from last year's national champions. 
It might be a little more dif­ficult to recognize the figures pacing the sidelines at the in­trasquad battle. While Head Coach Lou Holtz and defensive coordinator Barry Alvarez merely observe the game, WNDU-TV sports announcer Jeff Jeffers and New York businessman John Jordan (1969 ND alum) will work as honorary coaches. 
"They can call what kind of play they want, and the (Notre Dame) coaches will punch that play in," said Holtz, who used honorary coaches for the · spring game when he coached Arkansas. 
Assistant coaches Jay Hayes, Chuck Heater, Jim Strong and Tony Yelovich will help Jeffers with the Gold team. Jordan will have assistants Pete Cordelli, Joe Moore and John Palermo with him on the Blue sideline. 
Jeffers and Jordan will lead a pair of evenly-balanced squads. Tri-captain and start­ing quarterback Tony Rice will play one quarter for each team. Regular kicker Billy Hackett and first-string punter Jim Sex­ton also will work for both squads. 
Holtz refused to name a fa­vorite in Saturday's game. 
"Haven't you read about Pete Rose's problems," Holtz joked after deciding not to predict a winner. "It's pretty even. " 
The assistants chose the teams in a draft after Tues­day's scrimmage. The coaches on the losing side have to en­tertain the winning coaches. According to Holtz, players on the losing team will have to do community service (one hour per point in the final margin). 
Offensive line: Sophomore quick guard Tim Ryan and junior tight tackle Dean Brown are the two returning starters on the Blue line, which also in­cludes sophomore Jim Kinsherf and freshman Bernard Man­nelly at center, freshman Gene McGuire at tighf guard and junior Mike Brennan at tackle. Returning starters Mike Heldt and Tim Grunhard will suit up for the Gold at center and tight guard, respectively. The Gold line also includes 11uick guard Tom Gorman and 
FACES TO WATCH 
1 .,-·-··· 
' ; 
Jeff Jeffers (Hon. Coach) 
A local celebrity for his work as sports anchor at WNDU-TV, Jef­fers gets a chance to show off his football expertise when he works as honorary coach of the Gold team. Jeffers will match wits with Blue coach John Jordan, a New York businessman and 1969 Notre Dame grad. 

sophomore tight tackle Justin Hall. 
Receivers: Freshman Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, who is moving from split end to flanker, will play for the Gold, as will tight end Frank Jacobs. Gold split ends include David Jandric, Pat Fallon and Martin Scruggs. Freshman Walter Boyd will back up Ismail. 
The Blue team has starting flanker Pat Eilers on its side. Freshman Tony Smith will line up opposite Eilers at split end, and tight ends Derek Brown and Rod West also will play for the Blue. 
·Quarterback: With Rice playing a quarter for each side, the Blue team has Steve Belles as its only other signal-caller. 
The Gold team includes both sophomore Kent Graham and freshman Mike Miadich in reserve. 
Running backs: Sophomore Ricky Watters, who has had a super spring since returning to tailback, will run from the Gold backfield with fellow tailback Rusty Setzer and sophomore fullback Ryan Mihalko. 
Tri-captain Anthony Johnson will play fullback for the Blue team. His backfield com­panions include freshman tail­backs Rodney Culver and Kenny Spears. 
Defensive line: Returning starters George Williams and Chris Zorich lead the Blue line, which also includes Bob Dahl and Mike Callan. The Blue's de­fensive ends are Andre Jones, Scott Kowalkowski and Kevin McShane. 
The Gold's front three will in­clude returning starter Jeff Aim with freshmen Marc deManigold and Troy Ridgley. Junior Mike Crounse also will play on the Gold line. Gold de­fensive ends include Arnold Ale and Devon McDonald. 
Linebackers: Juniors Joe Far­rell and Chris Shey will team with freshman Michael Smalls on the Gold linebacking corps. 
Tri-captain Ned Bolcar and sophomore Donn Grimm will play for the Blue team with junior John Foley. 
Defensive secondary: Blue cornerbacks include freshmen Rusty Setzer and Rod Smith with junior Rick Purcell. Safeties D'Juan Francisco, Pat Terrell and Doug DiOrio will back them up. Returning starters Todd Lyght and Stan Smagala both will play corner­back for the Blue. Safeties for the Blue team include sohomore Greg Davis and freshman George Poorman. 

Anthony Johnson (FB) 
Another figure well known in the South Bend area, Irish tri-captain Johnson will lead the Blue back­field. The 6-foot, 220-pounder has gone from being an all-stater with the South Bend Adams High Eagles to a starting fullback for the national champions. 

Aug. 31 Virginia* East Rutherford, NJ Sept. 16 at Michigan Ann Arbor, MI Sept. 23 MICHIGAN ST. NOTRE DAME Sept. 30 at Purdue West Lafayette, IN Oct. 7 at Stanford Palo Alto, CA Oct. 14 at Ait Force Colorado Springs, CO Oct. 21 usc NOTRE DAME Oct. 28 PITTSBURGH NOTRE DAME Nov. 4 NAVY NOTRE DAME Nov. 11 SMU NOTRE DAME Nov. 18 -.at Penn St. University Park, PA Nov. 25 at Miami Miami, FL 
tl\. 
. 
"

(···-•·" 
.. 
' ~ .... ­



Ned Bolcar (LB) John Foley (DE) Chris Zorich (DT) 
Serving his second season as an This 6-3, 236-pounder Chicago Zorich earned several national Irish tri-captain, the 6-2, 229-is back from a shoulder injury that honors as a sophomore last pounder from Phillipsburg, N.J., is sidelined him for all of last season. season. The 6-1, 268-pounder returning for a fifth year of eligibility. Foley is listed as a linebacker on from Chicago, who will suit up with Bolcar, a second-team All­the Gold roster, but should play de­the Blue on Saturday, will lead one American in 1987, will lead the fensive end this fall. of the best defensive lines in the Gold team's linebacking corps. country this fall. 
.. 

Blue-Gold Game Edition, April 21, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Defensive line proved worth during '88 season 
By MARY GARINO line is the nosetackle, Zorich, Sports Writer who ranked third on the team last year in total tackles with 
At the heart of Notre Dame's 70. Despite sitting out his entire 13th-ranked defense last year freshman year, Zorich estab­was the defensive line, consid­lished himself as one of the best ered to be one of the strengths players at his position.of the team. "All of his football is ahead 
What is remarkable about of him," Palermo said of this is that last year at this Zorich. "I would describe him time, the line was one of the as a fierce competitor, some­question marks on the team. one who hates to lose. He's a The designated starters at the great football player:" 
Flanking Zorich at left and right tackle positions will be George Williams and Jeff Aim, respectively. Aim, who will be a senior, led the Irish last season in an unusual category for a lineman: interceptions. His 6-7, 270-pound frame and defensive skills contributed to the pass rush attack for Notre Dame. 
Williams settled into the left tackle spot, starting all 12 games after being switched from nosetackle. His 41-2 sacks
John Palermo 

ranked second on the team and tackle positions--Jeff Aim, he was a major part of a George Williams and Chris defense that allowed only 112 Zorich--had never started a rushing yards per game. game. But as the season wore "The thing about George is, on, the trio emerged as the he's probably the slowest of the anchor for the defense. three tackles speed wise, but fundamentals of the game. Starns and Gordon. leadership to our defense." 
"We were supposed to be one the quickest in the group of the "All we want to do in the "Arnold played a lot for us Devon McDonald from of the weaknesses of the team three," Palermo said. "He's a game is play basic defense," as a freshman last year," said Paterson, N.J., will back up last year," said Zorich. "I'm good fundamental football he stated. "We're going to limit Hayes. "He's fundamentally Kowalkowski. McDonald did very happy with how we did player, he just needs to get a our packaging and try to get sound, and he knows his tech­not play at all last year but has last year, but I'm sure if you little stronger." better at the little things that niques very well. He's a guy I a lot of potential. The hope that talk to the other guys on the Backing up the three starters make a better football team." can count on." Hayes has for the defensive line they'll tell you that we have will be Bob Dahl, Troy Ridgely The critical position on the Andre Jones will be backing ends is that they stay within a lot to learn." and Mike Crounse. The tackles defense will be the defensive up Ale at the drop end position. their abilities. 
Compared to last spring, are looking to improve in all end slots. First year coach Jay Jones played over 100 minutes "My main concern is keeping 
when the tackles were an un­areas as a unit this spring in Hayes has a similar challenge on the field last year and will them from thinking that they certainty, this year's crew is preperation for the '89 cam­ahead of him that Palermo had provide leadership for the have to go out and be Frank an experienced unit looking to paign. Palermo talks as if he last spring. With the loss of team. Starns," he said. "They may be improve. Coach John Palermo were the coach of the worst­Flash Gordon and All­Kowalkowski will step into as good as Frank Starns, but I says that the team has made ranked defense in the nation. American Frank Starns, Hayes Frank Starns' rush end spot, don't know. significant progress this "Overall as a group we'd like will have the tough task of where he backed up Starns for "We want the defensive ends spring. to be better against the run, replacing the two players. For­the last two years. He has also to be productive," he contin­
"The line is much further and you can never be good tunately, the replacements seen a lot of action on special ued. "We want them to go out along this year than it was last enough rushing the passer. I'd already have experience and teams. and take care of their respon­year," he said. "The players like to see more sacks," have made a mark on the foot­"Scott's biggest asset is that sibilities but if they have a are a little bigger, stronger and Palermo said. ball field. he has a lot of desire and a lot chance to make a big play, we faster, and they've improved As for tomorrow's Blue-Gold Arnold Ale and Scott of experience," Hayes noted. want them to make it. In our fundamentally." game, Palermo wants the Kowalkowski start for the Irish "He has played a lot for us in scheme, the defensive end is a 
At the center of the defensive tackles to concentrate on the and try to make the fans forget the past and will add a lot of big-play position." 
BREAKDOWN Lettermen Lost 
****Wes Pritchett ****George Streeter **Ray Dumas ****Frank Stamms ****Andy Heck ***Corny Southall ****Aaron Robb *Steve Alaniz *Reggie Ho ****Mark Green ***Flash Gordon **Marty Lippincott *Ted Fitzgerald 
Lettermen Returning 
*Derek Brown **Kent Graham *Bob Dahl **Frank Jacobs *Steve Belles *Arnold Ale **Rod West **Pete Graham **Andre Jones **Dean Brown **Anthony Johnson **Donn Grimm *Joe Allen **Braxston Banks **Michael Stonebreaker *Justin Hall *Rodney Culver ***Ned Bolcar *Tim Ryan *Ryan Mihalko **Todd Lyght *Gene McGuire **Ricky Watters ***Stan Smagala *Mirko Jurkovic *Raghib Ismail *Rod Smith *Mike Heldt **Scott Kowalkowski *Greg Davis ­*Winston Sandri *John Foley **D'Juan Francisco ***Tim Grunhard *George Williams ***Pat Terrell ***Tom Gorman *Chris Zorich *Billy Hackett *Mike Brennan **Brian Flannery *J.im Sexton **Pat Eilers ***Jeff Aim **Tony Rice 
-

Kickoff Classic ticket information 
Tickets for the game, in There will be no public Special to The Observer which the Irish face Virginia sale of tickets through the at Giants Stadium in East Notre Dame ticket offices. 
Notre Dame has received Rutherford, N.J., will be dis­Tickets go on sale to the 20,000 tickets for the football tributed through applica­general public May 1 at the team's season-opening tions by contributing alumni Giants Stadium box office. game Aug. 31 in the Kickoff and through alumni clubs on Call (201) 935-8500 for orders 
Classic. the East Coast. or information.
Jeff Aim, shown here tracking down a USC player, was a mainstay of The Notre Dame defensive line was expected to be a weekness of last year's Irish, but the play of the linemen surprised the experts. 



the Irish defense last season. 
page 4 The Observer Blue-Gold Game Edition, April 21, 1989 
ND running backs keep explosive ground attack 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
When one thinks of the 1988 National Championship foot­ball team, one of the first images that comes to mind is that of talented athletes explod­ing out of the backfield for big yardage. In Saturday's Blue­Gold game, there is a good chance that you will see more of the same. 
Familiar Irish backs An­thony Johnson and Rodney Cul­ver will be joined by freshman tailback Kenny Spears in the backfield for the Blue squad. Johnson, quarterback Tony Rice and linebacker Ned Bol­car are tri-captains of the 1989 team. 
Sophomore Ryan Mihalko starts at fullback for the Gold team. Lining up behind Mihalko at tailback will be Ricky Watters, who has had an outstanding spring, and Rusty Setzer. 
Watters, who has switched back to tailback after spending his sophomore year at flanker, has had an outstanding spring. According to Backfield Coach Jim Strong, the transition will not be any problem for the flashy native of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. 
"Ricky played tailback in high school and he was a tail­back here as a freshman,'' says Strong, "so he's making a good transition this spring and get­ting used to running on the in­side a little more." 
Watters has refined his play at tailback, and he feels this has been instrumental to his success this spring. "This year I've changed my running style, and that's helped me a lot," Watters says. 
"When there's nothing there for me, instead of trying to bounce off and go around the end, I've learned to live with a short gain so we'll have our next play at second and six in­stead of second and ten or eleven." 
Watters and Setzer possess outstanding speed coming out of the backfield, so if either of these runners get into the open field for the Gold team, don't be surprised if either of them break a long one. 
ROSTERS 
Blue 
Jay Jordan, Joe Moore, John Palermo, Pete Cordelli 
Offense 
SE--Tony Smith, Jeff Baker, Trevor Moriarity QT--Mike Brennan QG--Tim Ryan, Shawn Anderson C--Jim Kinsherf, Bernard Mannelly TG--Gene McGuire TT--Dean Brown TE--Derek Brown. Rod West QB--Steve Belles FB--Anthony Johnson TB--Rodney Culver. Kenny Spears FL--Pat Eilers, James Dillard 
Defense 
DE--Scott Kowalkowski, Kevin McShane L T --George Williams, Mike Callan NT--Chris Zorich AT--Bob Dahl DE--Andre Jones MLB--Michael Smalls, Joe Farrell ELB--Chris Shey FC--Todd Lyght, Chet Hollister SC--Stan Smagala, Jerry Bodine SS--Greg Davis, Marc Dobbins. Rich Earley 
Meanwhile, Ryan Mihalko will provide stability for the Gold ground-gainers. "Ryan is consistent, and reliable. He's what I call a 'Notre Dame player,"' praises Strong. "Ryan has made some im­provement this spring. He's stronger and more physical as a runner and has also shown the ability to catch the ball coming out of the backfield at times." 
Looking to push the pigskin into the opposite end zone will be Anthony Johnson, who will not take this game very lightly. "Anthony Johnson has a great competitive spirit. He does not like to lose," says Strong. 
Johnson, who gained 282 yards on 69 carries and scored five touchdowns last fall, is ef­fective primarily because he is very difficult to tackle. "An­thony is a very strong runner, and he is hard to bring down because he runs so low to the ground," explains Strong. 
"He has a great ability to change direction, which I like to credit to the fact that he played soccer when he was young," says Strong. "He has the ability to see the creases in the running lanes, and his change of direction allows him to get his body into those lanes." 
Freshman Rodney Culver, an outstanding young athlete, joins Johnson in the backfield. "Rodney's had a good spring," says Strong, "He played primarily at fullback in the fall, but our numbers are really down in terms of overall backs to work with this spring." 
Culver's versatility has helped Strong solve his num­bers problem. Culver is power­ful enough to be a fullback, but he also has the speed to excel at tailback. Look for him to carry the ball from both posi­tions tomorrow for the Blue team. 
Watters is also quick to praise Culver. "Rodney is tough, he's fast, he's physical, he's just a good all-around foot­ball player," says Watters. "He's definitely high on my list." Indeed, after averaging 
6.5 yards per carry last fa,ll, Culver is high on everybody's list. 
Gold 
Jeff Jeffers, Jim Strong, Tony Yelovich, Chuck Heater, Jay 
Hayes. 
OUense SE--David Jandric, Pat Fallon, Martin Scruggs QT--Lindsay Knapp, Peter Rausch QG--Tom Gorman, Brian Shannon C--Mike Heldt, Dave Prinzivalli TG--Tim Grunhard, Ted Healy QB--Kent Graham, Mike Miadich FB--Ryan Mihalko TB--Ricky Watters, Rusty Setzer FL--Rocket Ismail, Walter Boyd 
Defense 
DE--Devon McDonald 
L T --Marc deManigold 
NT--Troy Ridgley, Mike Crounse 
AT--Jeff Aim, George Marshall 
DE--Arnold Ale 
MLB--Ned Bolcar, John Foley 
ELB--Donn Grimm 
FC--Rod Smith 
SC--Rusty Setzer, Rick Purcell 
SS--D'Juan Francisco 
FS--Pat Terrell 










