~--------------------~­

VOL. XXIII NO. 39 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
E. Germany replaces Honecker after 18 yr. rule 
Associated Press 
BERLIN -East Germany's Communist Party on Wednesday ousted Erich Honecker, the builder of the Berlin Wall, but new party leader Egon Krenz quickly made clear he intended no sharing of power with pro­democracy groups. 
llonecker ruled with an iron list for 18 years. He was re­placed amid growing unrest, calls for democratic reform and a night West by East Ger­man refugees. 
Honecker, reported ill after a gallbladder operation in Au­gust, said he was resigning for health reasons. 
Two other ruling Politburo members also lost their jobs. 
The state news agency ADN said Krenz will take over as Communist Party chief, head of state and military boss, replac­ing his 77 -year-old mentor in all three roles. 
Krenz, 52, a Honecker pro­tege, conceded in his first na­tional address that discussion of changes was important, but declared, "Without the Com­munist Party there would be no German Democratic Republic (East Germany)." 
More than 53,000 East Ger­mans fled to West Germany in the last two months, rejecting the rigid authoritarian system at home, and tens of thousands turned out in major East Ger­man cities this month to demonstrate for more freedom. 
Krenz said in an hourlong speech carried on state TV, "We all sense and recognize the great opportunity to determine, in dialogue with all the citizens of our country, a new socialist course. 
"We know well the serious si­tuation at hand." 
But he added, "Our society already has enough democratic forums in which different inter­ests from various parts of the population" can express them­selves. 
He accused West German of­ficials of meddling in East Germany's internal affairs and reaffirmed East Germany's sovereignty. 
Krenz, referring to the con­tinuing mass exodus, asked all his countrymen to stay and work for improvements at home. 
"These wounds will smart for a long time, but if we stead­fastly address ourselves to the causes, perhaps we can make those who are considering leaving think again," he said. 
Krenz said West Germany's refusal to recognize East Ger­man citizenship was an obstacle to any new travel law. 
More than 250 feared dead in Oakland freeway collapse 
Earthquake Damage Overview 
At least 200 people were crushed to· death in their cars when a half-mile section of the the upper level of Interstate 880 collapsed onto the lower levet 
Provost appoints a committee on ethics 
By JOHANNA KELLY 
News Staff 
In response to a growing concern about ethics on campus and in society, Provost Ti­mothy O'Meara has appointed a committee to review the ethical dimension of education at Notre Dame. 
"While Notre Dame has al­ways taken pride in its focus on ethics and values, the new committee will review how ef­fective we are today in this area and make recommendations for improvement," O'Meara said. 
The committee will examine undergraduate and graduate education in each of Notre Dame's colleges as well as in the Law School. The new committee plans to help better prepare Notre Dame students for their future professional responsibilities, he said. 
The Notre Dame faculty is also targeted for reform with hopes of deepening their dis­cussion of ethics and values, according to a press release. In addition, the committee will re­search the University's current standards and increase the ef­fectiveness of Notre Dame's ex­isting ethical centers. 
"We've always been concerned about ethics here at Notre Dame," said O'Meara. 
The new committee, to be chaired by Father Oliver Williams, associate provost, will include Alan Howard, pro­fessor of mathematics; David Link, Joseph A. Matson dean and professor of law; Alasdair 
see ETHICS I page 4 

CALIFORNIA 
• More on the quake I page 4 
been planned. 
Rescue workers using dogs, jackhammers and muscle searched for victims in the twisted metal and concrete, and used a concrete saw to cut through cement to each auto­mobile. Search dogs covered all but two sections of the col­lapsed freeway and found no survivors, Wraa said. 
A helicopter brought in a re­mote-control backhoe late Wednesday afternoon. Officials planned to shore up the free­way with steel and wood piles to protect workers from a pos­sible aftershock. 
The search was moving "slowly and meticulously" be­cause the collapsed highwav was like "a house of cards" that could crash down at any time, Kyle Nelson of the Cali­fornia Department of Trans­portation said earlier. 
Shortly before dawn, a hook­and-ladder truck moved along­side the flattened section of 1­
880. It stopped periodically to allow firefighters to shine bright lights into gaps between the northbound upper deck and 
the southbound lower deck.  
Screams  and  the  crash  of  
metal brought bystanders  to  
the scene on Tuesday.  

see COLLAPSE I page 4 

Luggage SiiiVice 
trial run Friday 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Rescuers Wednesday found at least one person alive in the rubble of In­terstate 880, the elevated road turned into a giant concrete pancake and gnarled girders by the earthquake. 
More than 250 rush-hour commuters were feared buried in the section of the Nimitz Freeway, which collapsed dur­ing Tuesday evening's devastat­ing 6.9-magnitude quake. 
Seven bodies were recovered by midday. and police said at least 86 people still were re­ported missing. 
At about 6 p.m., Mayor Lionel Wilson was telling reporters that a search had found no survivors when police Lt. Kristina Wraa interrupted to say one had been discovered. 
"We have confirmed that there is one person alive, ap­parently in a car underneath the top level," Wraa said, adding that rescue workers had heard a voice and established physical contact with the sur­vivor. 
Gov. George Deukmejian claimed the collapse of 1-880 was the result of substandard construction, although state transportation officials said the freeway, one of the oldest in the area, had been reinforced and was considered earthquake-safe. However, they said further upgrad had 
to students. Sp~cific pick-up


By NATASHA WILSON 
times and locatlons are
Senior Staff Reporter 
listed on postersin. the resi· dence balls, · · 
·stude pick~up tim ... .eir.dotms may take their luggage to a baggage stop. at any other residence han, said Loya who is the District Four 
student ·· ·· claim checks at the main circle to retrieve their bags before boarding the United Limo shuttle, he said. 
. t\p;f'Jrish Express" bannerwill hang from each truckso students can easily identify the service from any other trucks on campus, Loya said. 
"There won't be any shut~ th~$ at the end of (this) 
··because it ·would be 
ifficult to estimate \\tlifiil students will be c()lning back," he said. "It's hard to go by this first time because of the 
game," Loya said. 
stuu·6nl~s will remain 
page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 
The Hungarian Parliament changed the country's communist name and created a democratic system by adopting key constitutional amendments Wednesday in Budapest. Amend­ments formally ending one-party domination in Hungary, regulat­ing free elections by next summer and creating the office of state president won overwhelming approval at the nationally televised session. The country was renamed the Republic of Hungary. Like other Soviet bloc nations, it had been known as a "people's repub­lic" since 1949. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Space shuttle Atlantis soared into orbit Wednesday and its astronauts started the Galileo probe on a six-year, roundabout journey to Jupiter for the closest look yet at the colossus of the solar system. Earlier, concerns about Galileo's nuclear power supply were left behind as Atlantis lifted ofT flawlessly from Cape Canaveral, Fla., on its mission to carry the $1.5 billion space probe into orbit on the first leg of its trip. 
Nearly 32 million Americans lived in poverty in 1988, the Census Bureau reported Wednesday, marking the second straight year in which the nation made no significant inroads against poverty despite the economic expansion. The Census Bu­reau, however, found some cause for encouragement in the report, pointing to a 1.7 percent increase in per capita personal income last year. 
Surprisingly widespread concentration of radon 
were revealed in tests in eight states by the Environmental Protec­tion Agency. The latest results prompted EPA Administrator William Reilly to repeat his agency's call for every homeowner to test for the carcinogen. Radon is colorless, odorless and radioac­tive gas produced by the decay of uranium in all soil and rocks. Seeping from the ground and concentrating in houses, radon has been blamed for up to 20,000 of the nation's more than 130,000 annual lung cancer deaths. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
Two central Indiana men were indicted Wednesday on charges they defrauded federal Housing and Urban Development programs. The indictments were the first in Indiana growing out of a nationwide probe of IIUD programs. Real estate agent Joseph Cirillo of Evansville and Indianapolis businessman Garry Newman, a former closing agent for HUD sales, were named in separate indictments. U.S. Attorney Deborah Daniels and HUD regional inspector general Thomas Boockmeier said investigations of IIUD programs arc continuing in the attorney's southern Indiana district. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
The schedule for Region 3 of the Irish Express Luggage service was left ofT of the posted schedules. The truck will pick up luggage Friday afternoon between Pasquerilla East and Knott Halls from 1:30 to 1:50, from 3:30 and 3:50 and from 5:30 and 
5:50. Luggage will also picked up behind Grace Hall from 1:50 to 2:10, from 3:50 to 4:10 and from 5:50 to 6:10. Pickups behind Flanner Hall will be from 2:10 to 2:30, from 4:10 to 4:30 and from 6:10 to 6:30. 
WEATHER 

Rainy 
Cloudy today with light rain mixed with snow. High in the lower 40's. The likelihood of precipi­tation is about 70 percent. 
ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On October 19: 
e In 1765: The Stamp Act 
Closings for October 18, 1080
Congress, meeting in New York, drew up a declaration of rights and liberties. e In 1781: British troops un­
Volume in shares der Lord Cornwallis surren­166.90 Million dered at Yorktown, Va., as the American Revolution neared its end. 
e In 1960: The U.S. imposed an embargo on exports to Cuba covering all commodities except medical supplies and certain food products. e In 1987: The stock market crashed amid frenzied selling as the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 508 points ­its worst-ever one-day decline. On the New York Stock Ex­change, more than 604 million shares changed hands. 
NYSE Index  
189.32  'tito.43  
S&P Composite  
341.76  'tito.6o  

Dow Jones Industrials 
2,643.65 +4.92 
Precious Metals Gold '\3-$1.30 to $368.70 I oz. Silver 1j 0.4¢ to $5.16 I oz. 
Source: AP 
lnforma11on comp1led from Observer w1res and Observer slaff reports 
The Observer Thursday, October 19, 1989 

Laundry Day in Siegfried is rough and tumbled 
The guy who said, "War is hell" probably had just done his laundry in my dorm. 
For most normal people, Laundry Day is just a tedious expense of energy and money. For the women of Siegfried Hall, however, Laundry Day is a cutthroat battle that pits roommate against roommate in a violent attempt to secure clean clothes for the week. 
Laundry Day? A war? Why? 
Well gosh, I don't know. After all, the 400­plus residents of Siegfried have been generously supplied with a whopping eight nifty new and usually working washers and dryers. Even with my practically non-existent math ability 400 to eight seems like a bit of a lopsided ratio. 
Nonetheless, Siegfried women are an easygoing bunch and of tough stock, so we grin and bear it. 
Sometimes. 

But usually, all hell breaks loose. 
The Laundry Battles begin because some people have the nasty habit of throwing their clothes in a dryer and then scampering off to brunch or class or India or somewhere, leaving their laundry in the lurch. Thus, valuable dryer space is often filled with fully dried and forgotten clothes. 
This tends to annoy patient souls who are waiting to use the dryers. So after waiting a reasonable amount of time, one of the now­irritated women removes the clothes from a dryer and replaces them with her own. The others follow her lead and soon the tops of the dryers are heaped with colorful piles of dried clothing. 
This practice would be no problem by itself, but as the laundry room becomes more crowded, tempers grow short and launderers get tense. The mild Laundry Battle escalates rapidly and becomes more cutthroat with every 
OF INTEREST 

John Enright will be speaking with stu­dents in the Rainbow Lounge in LeMans Hall. Enright is travelling across the U.S. in a wheelchair to raise money for scholarships for handicapped students. 
Northern Ireland Awareness Group will meet tonight at 7:30 pm in Room 217, O'Shaughnessy Hall. There will be a video/talk entitled "Irish News, British Stories." 

'laundry Day is a 

cutthroat battle that pits roommate against roommate.' 
Barbara Moran Sports Writer 
passing moment. The laundry room is like a time bomb, with the seconds ticking away. 
Soon it explodes and war breaks out. 
The second a washer or dryer cycle ends, hordes of crazed women descend like Harpies, fighting violently for possession of the machine. Wet and dry clothes are heaped in haphazard piles around the room, or strewn carelessly across the floor. 
Once-civilized women guard their wash, growling with paranoid hostility and unwilling to leave the room for fear that the enemy will seize their washer or dryer. Destruction and suspicion reduce the once amiable group to a pack of brutal savages. All in the name of clean socks. 
I, for one, have decided to become a conscientious objector and swear off the frenzy of this deadly battle. So if you want to find me on a Saturday morning, don't bother to check the laundry room. I'll be down on the banks of the St. Joe River -beating my clothes on a rock. 
Barbara Moran is a sophomore American studies major. The views expressed are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. JUt 
C Call 239-6900 ~ 
AIDS education on the ND campus will be discussed at a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 334 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Dr. Paul Blough, '46, formerly of Peoria, Illinois, who now resides and practices medicine in Haiti, will be at the Center for Social Concerns at 11 a.m. Friday. 
The last chances for students to pick up 1989 yearbooks are Thursday and Friday after­noons in the Dome office, 3rd floor LaFortune. 
Design &•lr................... Tricia Grohman Design Assllant ...................... Jeanne Blasi Typeset~ars ..................... Molly Schwartz ...................................................... Dan Towers Nllws&a:lr............................. Kelley Tuthill News CqJy &Iter................. Sara Marley ............................................... Janice O'Leary Spof1s Copy Editors ...... Molly Mahoney Viewpoint Edllor ................. Dave Brunner Viewpolnl Copy Editor .................................. ................................................. Janice O'Leary Viewpoint Layout .................. Katie Foster Accent Edllor ..................... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor ............. Terri Walsh Aa:enl Deslgner..................Joe Zadrozny Typills............................... Erin Schirtzinger NO Day Editor .................. Colleen Malloy Photog~ apia........... Andrew McCloskey Ads Daslgners ................ Shannon Roach ...................... Mindy Breen,Jeanne Naylor ..................... Jeanne Naylor. Sheila Jones .................................. Quinn Satepauhoodle Business Edlor ........................ Liz Panzica Business CqJy Editors........... Mike Kolar Business l..ayolL ............... David Klawitzr 

Join The Observer 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday lhrough Fnday except dunng exam and vaca11on penods. The Observer is published by sludenrs of lhe Umvers1ty of Noire Dame and Saini Mary"s College. Subscnpt1ons may be pur· chased for $40 per year ($25 per semesler) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Assoc1ated Press. All reproduclion rights 
are reserved. 




"liF£8 ABEACH." 
llnflf/lu•j/JJotltmlt'"ufahwiiUim'tlftlhwruJh IIIII'" if'fll'tt g hwulrnl~ lumu>/t>s.~ 1/IJOII n1111 "I"'~~' 'it'lllf'lllllf'III}/11/JI lf'JII rmq/i/(11/ll•ti.JIII///I~J 
~· 
WE'D liKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITIITION 
'I11c w,xds we ~\·c ~· 


-~ -~--~-._--__.~-----­

By LESLIE LONGVAL 
News Staff 
The implementation of a stu­dent-alumnae association was discussed Wednesday at the Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance and Student Activities meeting. 
Tricia Burke, head of Alum­nae Relations and a 1981 Saint Mary's graduate, spoke to the Boards about forming a club that would bring together alumnae in various cities and the students on campus. 
"The idea would be a campus based club," explained Burke. "(It would) get students in the mind-set that they will be con­nected to this school forever." 
The club members would serve as ambassadors to the campus. They would work with representatives on campus to coordinate activities associated with the 65 alumnae clubs throughout the U.S., Burke said. 
Members would also intro­duce freshmen to the campus and provide moral support for them, she added. 
"We're open to ideas," said Burke. She emphasized that the association is only in the plan­ning stage and any help would be welcomed. 
The board decided to set up a task force to explore interest and possibilities for the stu­dent-alumnae association. The task force will begin work after October break. 
Board members also dis­cussed the SMC/ND Relations Committee that is also in its planning stage. Student Body President Lisa Cantenacci said the prospective committee would attempt to relieve ten­sions between the two cam­puses. 
The committee would include students, faculty and staff from both campuses. The committee hopes to get underway next semester, said Ted Stumpf, the SMC/ND relations co-commis­sioner. 
Plans for the OXFAM charity drive and the SMC/ND talent show were also announced. 
................................................................ 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday Today IS Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up and WISh her a happy one. By the way 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura, we do e)(pect to see you dancing

!! II LaFortune.
on pool tables tomght. 

o/m®?jW@ Uill©W®~~ 
and closer to campus 
Linda's Flower Market 
2 doors east of Coach's 
2128 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
(State Road 23) 
South Bend, IN 46637 
Larger store to accommodate all your floral & plant needs. 
"Same Great Service" 
Phone 272-0902 
Saturday is Sweetest Day 
Roses $15.95 a dozen boxed Delivery Available 
ND ROTC places first in state competition 
By JESSICA ZIEMBROSKI 
News Staff 
The Notre Dame ROTC Ranger Challenge Team placed first in competition in Indi­anapolis last weekend, earning its second consecutive state championship. 
Team captain Kevin McKay said they owe the victory to "a lot of work and being physically stronger and more experienced than last year." 
The competition against six other Indiana colleges was held Saturday and Sunday at Fort Benjamin Harris. 
Nine events make up the thirty hour competition. The physical training test consists of push-ups, sit-ups, a two mile run, a rope bridge test, a grenade assault course, M-16 marksmanship, and a M-16 and M-60 weapon assembly, said Sergeant Stephen Price, coach of the team's technical training. 
Other events are orienteering or land navigation, a patrol mission and a 10K road march in full combat attire with gear, Price said. 
In addition to placing first overall, the team placed first in two events: the physical train­ing test and the road march in which they set the record of 63 minutes, well ahead of any other team. McKay said that is the hardest event "because of being in full gear and having no sleep." 
Coach Captain John Pot­tinger, who handles physical conditioning for the team, said, "It has to be a tremendous honor. These people sacrifice a lot to be on the team. They are in extraordinary physical con­dition." 
The team consists of nine in­dividuals competing and each member "wins" his position by competing in strength and skill. 
The Ranger Challenge Team is called the varsity sport of ROTC and at other universities members of the teams do earn varsity letters. There is a team from most major universities in the United States, Pottinger said. 
The team began practicing Sept. 4 and continued five mornings and afternoons per week including weekend ses­sions. The team will resume training in January to build up­per body and leg strength. 
The state championship qualifies the ·Notre Dame team for regional competition among nine states on April 5 in Fort Knox, Kentucky. 
"It is hard to say how we will do, but we will train hard and do the best that we can," Price said. 
NO to host conference on foreign student affairs 
By JOE MOODY 
News Staff 
For the first time since 1975, Notre Dame will host the re­gional meeting of the National Association for Foreign Student Affairs from October 22 to 25. 
The annual event will be at­tended by university adminis­trators from Illinois, Wiscon­sin, Michigan, Kentucky, Ohio and Indiana, said Arthur Gru­bert, director of International Student Affairs. 
One of the topics to be cov­ered at the meeting concerns cooperative relationships be­tween institutions in this coun­try and their counterparts abroad, said Grubert. 
In regards to Notre Dame's current involvement abroad, Grubert said, "I would hope that Notre Dame would expand its study abroad program. The seven or so that we have are excellent but I would be very happy to see us go into Africa or into other Asian options such as Korea." 
Another issue that will be ad­dressed is what to do with for­eign exchange students here in the U.S. at times of unforeseen political upheaval that occur in the student's homeland. 
Grubert said there are situa­tions when students may be cut off from their ties to home. He used the military crackdown that occurred in Bejing, China as an example. 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA Featuring Friday night secdoocl buffet and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 


__________., 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, October 19, 1989 
Residents of Santa Cruz moumloses 
Associated Press 
SANTA CHUZ, Calif. -Resi­dents mourned Wednesday over lost lives and ruined buildings in this handsome seaside city that was closest to the epicen­ter of the second-deadliest earthquake in U.S. history. 
A downtown shopping center of renovated turn-of-the-cen­tury buildings, gardens and walkways was badly damaged during Tuesday evening's 6.9­magnitude quake. Two people were killed. 
"The downtown lost between 12 and 20 buildings -the heart of the community and its vitality," said Gary Patton, chairman of the Santa Cruz County Board of Supervisors. 
Five people died in the county. Authorities initially said 40 buildings were damaged beyond repair, but revised that figure to 25. Water, gas and sewage lines burst. Crews restored power and water service 

Death toll at 270 in N. California 

throughout the county Wednes­ 
day. Also hard-hit by the quake  Associated Press  
was Los Gatos, an affiuent hill­side city in Santa Clara County, 40 miles northeast of here, where Victorian homes were shaken off their foundations and masonry buildings crum­bled to the ground. "I've got to somehow figure out how to get a ton of chimney off my roof," said Peter Cifelli, who spent the night with his wife and two daughters in their station wagon because they feared the chimney would plunge into their home.  SAN FRANCISCO -Rescuers searched with dogs and sensi­tive microphones Wednesday for the last survivors of an earthquake that killed at least 270 people, as partial power was restored to this region wracked by an estimated $2 billion in damage. In just 15 seconds, the earthquake destroyed or dam­aged hundreds of buildings along 100 miles of the San An­dreas Fault, collapsed a section of the San Francisco-Oakland  
Collapse continued from page 1  inches, said passer-by Patrick Macintyre. Emergency workers pulled a girl from the wreckage of an­other automobile. The fate of  
"You could hear it crunching  her parents and brother was  
down -but you couldn't see  unknown.  
anything. It was just a big  A three-member surgical  
white cloud," said witness  team had to amputate the right  
Leroy FitzGerald. "You could  leg of a 7 -year-old boy who was  
hear people screaming for  trapped in a car for seven  
help."  hours. At 12:15 a.m., he finally  
When the 18-block stretch of  was carried down a 20-foot  
highway caved in, workers  ladder and taken to an ambu­ 
from businesses in the heavily  lance.  
industrial area ran to help,  There were many heroes.  
many bringing tall ladders and  Darius Brewer, a 26-year-old  
forklifts.  cook, joined an impromptu res­ 
cue party. The group crawled  
Hescuers were able to pull  as far as possible under the  
one man alive from a car that  crushed road to help injured  
was crushed to a height of 18  motorists.  
Express continued from page 1  Art Kanerviko, head of Stu­dent Life, helped Loya organize the service for its initial run.  
favorable response from the  Loya and Kanerviko divided  
students. Once it gets colder  the residence halls into three  
and icy I think {the service) will  regions to coordinate the  
become very successful. We  routes of the three trucks.  
plan to offer it for Christmas  
break this year," said Student  Hegion One consists of Car­ 
Body President Matt Breslin.  roll, Morrissey, Lyons, Holy  
Loya said he initiated the  Cross, Lewis, Sorin, Walsh,  
concept of the baggage service  Howard and Badin Halls. Re­ 
and pr_esented his plan to Stu­ gion Two includes Pasquerilla  
dent Government last spring.  West, Siegfried, Breen-Phillips,  
The Student Life and Special  Farley, Cavanaugh, Keenan,  
Pr.lject divisions of Student  Stanford, St. Edward's and  
Government have incorporated  Zahm Hajls. Pasquerilla East,  
Irish Express into their func­ Knott, Grace and Flanner Halls  
tions.  constitute Region Three.  


Ethics 
continued from page 1 
Macintyre, McMahon/Hank professor of Philosophy; Hev­erend Richard McCormick, John 
A. O'Brien professor of Chris­tian Ethics and Patrick E. Mur­phy, professor of marketing. 
Robert Schm1.1hl. associate professor of American studies; Thomas Gordon· Smith, profes­sor and chairman of architec­ture; James Taylor, professor of civil engineering and associ­ate dean of engineering; Maria 

Rosa Olivera-Williams, associ­ate professor of romance lan­guages and literature; Ricky Battistoni, an MBA student and David Kinkopf, student body vice president, will serve on the committee as well. 
Bay Bridge and two spans near Agnos said 60 buildings are Santa Cruz, cracked roads, and being considered for demolition severed gas and power lines, and 1,000 people are in shel­sparking fires. ters, adding, "We expect that 
The trembler, the nation's number to rise." second-deadliest, surpassed He said it might take as much only by the San Francisco as 15 or 16 weeks for water quake of 1906, measured 6.9 and power to be restored in on the Richter scale and was parts of the Marina District, felt 350 miles away. which was hard-hit by fires fol­
San Francisco Mayor Art Ag­lowing the quake. nos, appearing on television More than 1 million people Wednesday night, estimated lost electricity. By Wednesday damages at $2 billion to public night, Pacific Gas & Electric and private property in San had restored power to about Francisco city and county one-half of the residential cus­alone. tomers in San Francisco. 

Good things don't always come in small packages . 
ThePrudential 


Comptroller's Organization 
If you're the best, looking to join the biggest 
Come and explore your employment opportunities with America's leading financial institution. 
he Comptroller's Organization will be on campu interviewing students of .all majors. 
November 15 info session 6 PM Alumni/Senior Club Senior Bar 
Survivors search for neighbors 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Neigh­bors who had feared for each other's lives embraced cheer­fully Wednesday as they sur­veyed their ruined homes, and tourists swapped stories about how they survived the killer earthquake. 
Neil Hancock comforted Maryellen Sechser, his upstairs neighbor in what had been a 21-unit apartment building in the Marina District. The build­ing toppled and caught fire after Tuesday's quake, and three people were feared dead. 
"She is the first one I've seen since last night," Hancock said. 
The two stood among a crowd at Divisadero and Beach streets watching firefighters hose water over the blackened remains of the building. 
"When I got here the whole building collapsed. I could see into my apartment," Sechser 
said, fighting back  tears.  She  
watched  helplessly  as  the  
flames  came  up  through  the  

floor of her ruined living room. 
The worst thing was not knowing if her neighbors, many of them elderly, were all right, she said. 
"(I thought) people were still in the building. I couldn't save anyone, I couldn't save the an­imals, I couldn't save any­thing," Sechser said. "I lost ev­erything. What you see is all I've got." 
November 16 interviews at the Career Placement Office 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE 

Thursday Oct. 19 7:00PM 
GAME TWO 
Friday Oct. 20 8:30PM 
COVELESKI STADIUM SOUTH BEND 
Tickets on sale at Joyce ACC Gate 10 & Coveleski Stadium $5 Box Seats $3 Gen. Admission $2 Students/Faculty/Staff 
Business 
page 6 Thursday, October 19 1989 
Two years later, investors reminded of market hazards 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -As Wall Street marks the second anniversary of Black Monday. Oct. 19, 1987, investors big and small have just gotten a refresher course in the hazards of "playing the market." 
After last week's Friday-the­13th selloiT that drove the Dow Jones industrial average down 190 points. it looked as if stocks were heading for something similar to the record 508-point crash that occurred two years ago. 
The market has since settled down, gradually allaying those fears. In Wednesday's trading. Dow Jones's average of 30 big­name stocks rose 4.92 to 2,643.65, bringing its net gain over the past three days to 

74.39 points. 
But if the steady showing came as a relief, it did not necessarily provide much reassurance for anyone who follows the ups and downs of stock prices. 
Indeed, the image of Wall Street as a sort of upscale gambling den has been reinforced in many minds by the latest fluctuations. To individual investors, who have been withdrawing more money than they put into direct stock 
Britian calls sanctions 'utterly irresponsible' 
Associated Press 
KUALA LUMPUH, Malaysia ­
Prime Minister Margaret 
Thatcher of Britain, waging a 
lone war on sanctions against 
South Africa, told the 
Commonwealth summit 
Wednesday the measures were 
"utterly irresponsible," 
oflieials said. 
Other nations in the 49­
member grouping of Britail} 
and its former colonies, 
including Canada and host 
Malaysia, pressed for continued 
or stronger embargoes. 
Proponents said sanctions 
forced President F.W. de Klerk 
to promise reforms and release 
black nationalist leaders. 
The exchanges on the weeklong summit's opening day heralded a new confrontation over South Africa, which quit the Commonwealth in 1961. 
"We arc much more likely to 
achieve our aim by giving 
encouragement than by trying 
to behave as if nothing 
significant has happened." Mrs. 
Thatcher told a closed session 
of the summit. Iter comments 
were reported by a British 
official. who spoke on condition 
of anonymity. 
lie quoted her as saying de 
Klerk took a "major step 
forward" by rele~.sing eight 
black leaders this week,
r-------­

allowing peaceful demonstrations and being prepared to consult "all shades of opinion." 
Britain, a major trading partner of South Africa, argues that sanctions hurt blacks and increase white resistance to change. 
Prime Minister Mahathir 

Mohamad  of  Malaysia  said  
sanctions  "must  not  only  
continue  but  must  be  

escalated" to force an end to apartheid, the official policy of racial segregation that allows South Africa's 5 million whites to maintain control over 28 million blacks. 
"Sanctions work," Mahathir declared. "Concern for the effect of sanctions on the blacks is misplaced." 
In a blunt opening address. he also blamed industrialized countries for pollution and accused them . of "manipulating" the world economy. 
"It is the developed countries which have most assailed our environment," he said. "Nuclear testing, excessive use of fossil fuels, private transportation, release of CFC into the atmosphere, massive wastage of paper, toxic chemical disposal -all these and more are the direct result of the lifestyle of the rich."
--------.. 
1 I
***REMINDER*** 
I I I I 
I NOTRE DAME I 
I I 
I CPA REVIEW PROGRAM I I I I I
FOR SENIORS 
I 

PREPARING FOR THE MAY 1990 I 
I  CPA EXAMINATION  
I  LAST DAY FOR  
I  STUDENT DISCOUNT  
I I  $75.00 SAVINGS  
I  
I  OCTOBER 20, 1989  
I  
I  For information stop by  
I  137 Hayes-Healy Center  
I  or call 239-5285  

..I _______ _ 

________ .. 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 

holdings for two decades now, stocks are widely seen as "too risky" and "too volatile." 
While nobody disputes that risk and volatility arc facts of life in stock investing, long-time students of the markets say the perils are often viewed in a distorted light. 
Volatility -the tendency of stock prices to rise and fall dramatically in short periods of time -has drawn more and more attention in recent years with advances in technology and the concentration of large amounts of capital in the hands of professional traders and money managers. 
With instant communications and computers programmed to execute buy-and-sell orders, the market now can react within moments to changing news developments that might once have taken weeks to absorb. 
But the importance of short­term changes in stock prices diminishes drastically in the context of what has happened in the market in the post-World War II era. 
Since the late 1970s, stocks have suffered four separate "October massacres." Y nt this month also brings another. happier anniversary, notes Norman Fosback, editor of the the turmoil of Watergate disclosurPs and the gloom of a deep recession, thn eurrent bull market was born," hn states. 
investment  advisory  letter  
Market Logic.  
"Fifteen  years  ago,  amidst  

From its low of 577.60 in late 197 4 through its recent highs near 2,800, the Dow Jones industrials nearly quintupled, and other, broader measures of stock priee trends recorded even grnatcr gains. 
Hesults like these were achieved during a time of eeonomie growth, erratic though it may have been from year to year. 
Quake didn't damage market 
Associated Press gain of 4.92 at 2,643.65. The key market measure now 
NEW YORK -Stock stands 74.39 points above prices posted modest gains the level reached in Friday's Wednesday as the market 190-point plunge. regained its composure afler Activity on Wall Street was several jumpy s~$Si<ms. subdued compared to th(J 
Contrary t() initial wild trading that began the Northern,, California Friday with the worst selloff earthquake didn't do much since the crash of 1987. damage to the market. Som~ which occurred exactly two companie~ benefitefl ;::)::\~'' years ago Thursday. as investors ght on the,; "' , ·· Computer-guided hunch that business might maneuvers, which had boom during the cleanup of tugged stock prices up and the destructiori'in the down during the three Francisco Bay,~rea. previo~s sessions, Were not 
Blue chips overcame a'. much:.,of a factor in flurry of selling and the Wednesuay's trading. Jones average of 30 Advancing issues industrials finished with a outnumbered declining ones by less than 5 to 4 in nationwide trading of New York Stod Exchange-listed stocks. with 822 up, 668 down and 461 unchanged. 
Despite somn narly selling on worries about the extent of liabilities, insurance group stocks generally rose amid speculation that heavy quake-related claims -on top of losses from Hurricane Hugo -could lead insurers to raise premium rates, enhancing the industry's profitability. 
There also was speculation that the big temblor Tuesday could boost demand for earthquake insurance coverage. 
Senio:·s ofA/l Alajors .-lre lnl'ited to a Presentation on 
Opportunities in Investrnetzt Banking 
Thursda.Y, October 19, 1989 University Club 
6:00 P.l\11. 

Representatives of!11organ Stanley will be present to discuss: 
• 
The Investment Banking Industry 

• 
Opportunities in the Financial Analyst Progra1n 


Refreshments Provided 
Contact the University ofNotre Da1ne Career and Placement Services Center for additional infonnation 
MORGA1V STANLEY & CO. 
Incorporated 


.-.----------------.. 
Viewpoint
Thursday, October 19, 1989 



P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor ...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager... .. .. Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor................. .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ..... Shannon Roach Sports Editor... . ............... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor... . ............ John Blasi Systems Mgr ...... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .................. Eric Bailey OTS Director.................. Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor.............. Christine Gill Controller ............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters. and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. rs encouraged. 
Commie schemes and Econ 101 

By Matt Janchar 
It was a cold and grey Thursday morning. Although my alarm clock had awakened me half an hour ago, I was still in bed. I was debating whether or not to go to class that day. Suddenly, a friend of mine from down the hall burst into my room. 
"Still in bed?" Roach shouted. 
''I'm not going to class today, Roach. I've decided that educa­tion is a hopeless pursuit." 
"Quit whining," Roach said, "You'll get over that D minus." 
"It's not just that D minus, Roach," I sighed. "The American system of higher academicism as a whole is an inefficient failure, a frivolous illusion. Why should I go to class?" 
"Oh, now I understand," said Roach. "You're still upset about that Gallup Poll about the igno­rance of American college se­niors." 
"You read that article too?" 
"Of course. Don't tell me you buy that stuff about the college senior not knowing that Columbus discovered America and all that other junk." 
"Why shouldn't I buy it?" I asked Roach. 
"Because it's all just a com­munist plot, man. Can't you see that? They're trying to fool 
DOONESBURY 
American college students into thinking our system of educa­tion is inferior. Soon they'll come out with a poll saying that high school students who took three years of Russian and studied all that Marxist-Lenin stuff got 90% higher scores on their SAT's." 
"You really think so?" 
"I know so, comrade. Besides, the tests that they gave those students were fixed. The ques­tions they asked had nothing to do with what a student should learn in college." 
"But those questions were about basic history, math, and science," I said. "What are we supposed to be learning 
about?" 
"A university is a place where 
learning and scholarship are 
central," Roach replied. "But 
not all learning and scholarship 
comes from history, math and 
science." 
"That sounds familiar," 
said. "Did you read Du Lac or 
something?" 
Roach blushed slightly at the 
collar and quickly continued. 
"For example," he went on, 
"there are several areas of 
learning and scholarship that 
American college students are 
extremely proficient in --but of 
course no Commie-pinko poll 
will tell you that!" 
"Oh, yeah," I said, " and what 
areas might those be?" 
''I'll show you. This is ques­tion one, category of Eco­nomics," he said. "A graduate student goes into a super-mar­ket. Knowing he is hosting a study session that weekend, does he buy six cases of Meister Brau at $6.69 a case, or five and a half cases of Budweiser at $8.29 a case?" 
"Neither," I answered. "I say he leaves the super-market and goes and gets a keg." 
"Absolutely correct!" yelled Roach. "That was a trick question." I said. 
"What does that matter? You got it right, didn't you? Question two, category of geography. On which ocean is Daytona found?" 
"Isn't Daytona a beach somewhere?" I replied. 
"Right again! Daytona isn't on any ocean. Everyone knows you can't build a city on water," said Roach. 
"That was a trick question, too." 
"So what, that just goes to show you that American college students are even smarter than you thought we is, doesn't it?" 
"Gee, Roach, I guess I never thought of it that way." 
"I knew you'd see it my way. Now c'mon, we don't want to be late for class, do we?" 
Matt Janchar is a student in the Freshman Year ofStudies. 
LETTERS 
Evidence refutes drug legalization 
Dear Editor: · ··· their communities, and the le­
lt is a shame that two repre-galization of marijuana would sentatives of the National Or-only increase the demand for ganization to Reform Mari-drugs. juana Laws (NORML) chose to Although the federal govern­embarrass both themselves and ment could tax and place re­Notre Dame outside the "Drug strictions on the sale of mari­Enforcement in Indiana" hear-juana, there would be more ings last week. Their argument, problems than there are today. that the U.S. should legalize With an increasing number of marijuana to provide an alter-people using the drug, there native to the use of hard drugs, would be an increasing number is ludicrous at best. Statistics of abusers who require rehabil­clearly show that people who itation in our already back­use marijuana are more likely logged system. -­to experiment with harder The drug problem has drugs, such as crack, than are reached epidemic proportions those who do not use mari-in American society, and our juana. Furthermore, the Na-only plan should be to get tiona! Cocaine Information Ser-tough on drug users. Americans vice estimates that over 70 are sick of drugs and are percent of current cocaine begging for a remedy. It's time users have previously used to support and enforce our marijuana. country's drug policy, and not 
When will groups such as challenge it with preposterous NORML realize that legalization alternatives. of any narcotic is against the Christopher Coury best interests of our society? Dillon Hall ~ople are fed up with drugs Jn Oct. 17,1989 
Parents share NO security concerns 
Dear Editor: stead, moreguards should be 
As parents of a female Notre hired. Dame student, we read with It is imperative that the concern and alarm of the in-service be efficient and well 
creased number of assault inci-staffed, so that no female stu­dents on campus this year. dent is waiting for a prolonged Though we realize that no period in a dark and isolated campus can be totally secure, it building. It would be well, too, is apparent that Notre Dame if the faculty would impress needs to tighten its security and upon the students the impor­other efforts to protect the tance of taking precautionary students. measures and to be certain not 
The University is frequently to walk around campus alone. spoken of as a family and, as We all share the concern such, it must do whatever nee-about this present danger at essary to protect its family Notre Dame and all of us-stu­members. We hope that ade-dents, faculty, parents and quate and bright lighting will administrators-must do what­immediately be installed, re-ever necessary to secure the gardless of the cost. It is also safety of the students and our hope that the administra-hopefully alleviate the problem tion will begin a serious escort as quickly as possible. service for the female students. It is certainly not realistic to Bob and Katheryn Tripeny expect the present guards to Casper, Wyoming provide this service, but, in-Oct. 10, 1989 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'laughter is a tranquilizer with no side effects.' 
Arnold H. Glasow 

Viewpoint
pa_g_e 8 Thursday, October 19, 1989 
A Modestly Honest Proposal for Notre Dame 
By Roger Hipp 
It seems like you ean't eo ugh in class anymore without sign­ing something to the effect that. on your honor, your eough was not an effort to cheat. Despite underwhelming studentlfaeulty support, the llonor Code (offieial name: Code of Honor) is probably here to stay. Let's faee it: the only thing the administration hates more than fun is losing face, and it's getting late in the game for the parents of our Notre Dame Family to admit tlw llonor Code isn't sueh a great idea. 
But it's never too late for us to make the best of things, and I think it's high time the Ilonor Code was extended to cover many more aspects of life at Notre Dame. I'm writing this eolumn to garner support for a Comprehensive Honor Code, one that would apply to every­thing that goes on under the Dome. 
For example, under the Com­prehensive Honor Code, there would no longer be any need for security guards at the doors of the library. Upon exit­ing the building, each student would simply complete two forms: one form to state that 
LETTERS 


he or she had not illegally bor­rowed library materials, and a second form on which to turn in fellow students. After all, we at Notre Dame constitute a eommunity of mutual trust (and surveillance). so there shouldn't be any more need for external policing at the 'brare than there is at other academic facilities. If we can be trusted to take those big exams without proctors, we can be trusted to patronize the library without security guards. 
The Comprehensive Honor Code would also eliminate the disciplinary role of hall rectors. The wisdom of Du Lac would be preserved, but its enforcement would be left to the students. 
Each day the students would sign documents attesting that on the previous day they did not break parietals, host parties, have fun, etc. Students would also fill out a form with the names of fellow students caught participating in such ac­tivities. The current rectors would have the opportunity to continue living in the dorms as "resource persons" without punitive power. 
Perhaps the most important facet of Notre Dame life to be altered by the Comprehensive Honor Code would be tuition billing. Under the present sys­tem, the University sends a bill to you and your parents, and if you don't pay, you can't come to school here. This policy cer­tainly damages the atmosphere of trust and honesty the Admin­istration is attempting to foster with the present Honor Code. Under the Comprehensive Honor Code, students would sign forms promising to pay tu­ition, and, of course, to monitor payment by their elassmatPs. 
At the beginning of each semester, a representative from the registrar's office would place two large collection bins in front of the Administration Building. During registration week, the students would come by and put their tuition check in one bin at their convenience. Lists of those students sus­pectod of avoiding tuition pay­ment would be placed in the other bin. Thus the mistrustful practice of individual billing would be eliminated. 
These are only a few of the changes that would take place with an extension of the cur­ront Honor Code. Eventually, bookstore billing, Vali-dirw checking, and even football tickets would be done away with in favor of a Comprehon­sive Honor Code. 
What can you do to help bring this about? Not mU(ih· since honor eodes are handed down by the administration, not organized by the students. But the next time you sign that statement pledging that on your life, your fortune, and your sacred honor you did not cheat, look at the bright side. Maybe a Comprehensive llonor Code is on the way. 
Hoger 1/ipp is a sophomore in the College ofArts and /,etters. 
Racial concerns solved in caring manner; student actions not a modem 'witch hunt' 
Dear Hditor: way be construed to be a witch manner without a senseless 
In the Friday, Oct. 13 issue hunt. Weeks ago, Fr. witch hunt. of ThH Observer, Fr. Hobert Wiskirchen was approached Therefore, not only do we Griflin wrote an article entitled with a private letter asking him fail to see the necessity of Fr. "An Open Letter to Black Stu­to reconsider his remarks, Griffin's column but are hurt donts On Campus." Fr. Griffin apologize for them and revise and insulted by his unfair in­critiqued the efforts of a group the format of his class to one dictment of our actions. Not of black students, specifically that is not injurious or insulting only were many students hurt the officers of the Black Cul­to his students. Fr. Wiskirchen by Fr. Griffin's condemnation of tural Arts Council. on our re­responded positively to our ef-our actions but his comparison sponse to an incident concern­forts to reasonably address of our actions to a witch hunt is ing Fr. George Wiskirchen. In this problem. This issue was ludicrous and unjustified. As his letter, which would be better also discussed with Associate rational students actively in entitled "A Close Minded Letter Provost Fr. Williams, who pursuit of education at this to Blaek Students on Campus," showed support for our efforts. institution, many black students Fr. Griffin accused black lead­The issue was resolved between are insulted by what Fr. Griffin ers of conducting a "witch the Executive Council of the is inferring through his state­hunt" on campus, with the sole Black Cultural Arts Council and ments. Not only does Fr. Grif­intention of persecuting an in­Fr. Wiskirchen, who published fin not present a true picture of nocent man for our own selfish an apology in the Oct. 6 issue of these events as they unfolded gain. The Observer. but in so doing has shown 
As "black leaders" on cam­This situation was thus gross insensitivity not only to pus and especially as members settled with Fr. Wiskirchen in blacks but to the entire Notre of thH Notre Dame community, early October without a "witch Dame community. we felt not only justified but hunt", yet Fr. Griffin saw fit to The controversy concerning compelled to address the par­reprimand the black community Fr. Wiskirchen and Fr. Griffin's ticular incident of injustice in his article. He condemned insensitive commentary goes which has sparked this debate those involved as "imaginative" far in demonstrating that black and for this we are not apolo­students who "dumped a load students are justified in their getic. As Notre Dame students of injustice on a gentle priest" concern that racism and and members of the Notre while in reality this priest injustice still are relevant Dame family, we were hurt and himself admitted, through his issues meriting attention, dis­insulted that a priest such as apology, the error of his cussion and action on the Notre Fr. Wiskirchen could knowingly actions. In his column Fr. Dame Campus. We, as mem­or unknowingly use his position Griffin expressed the sentiment hers of the Notre Dame com­to promote negative stereo­that no "Holy Cross priest...is munity feel that it is our duty to types, injurious not only to the happy to see a community address these issues in order to Black community but also to member hurt, or the black foster a true family atmosphere the Notre Dame community students either, because of a on our campus. as a whole. regrettable misunderstanding Carla J. Morgan, Co-President 
Fr. Griffin insinuates that as which caring people should be Robert Price, Co-President young blacks, we are out of able to resolve without a witch Echelon Jackson, Secretary touch with "black culture of 50 hunt." A look at the facts of Keith McCoy, Treasurer or 100 years ago" and must this issue clearly shows that it Black Cultural Arts Council search intently to find evidence was resolved in a caring Oct. 16, 1989 of racism in this supposedly en­lightened day and age. It would 
Ad wrong on concert ticket prices
seem, reading Fr. Griffin's let­ter, that black students let their Dear Editor: office. Notre Dame/Saint 
"black sensitivities" get the best It has come to our attention Mary's faculty and staff ticket of them and are blindly and un­that there has been a misprint price is $12.50. justly "traumatiz[ing] the fac­in the advertising of ticket sales We hope the misprint has not ulty with an exhibition of Black for the SQUEEZE concert on caused any undo inconvenience. Power". Nov. 16, 1989. We wish to Any questions should by di­
Nothing could be further clarify the situation concerning rected to the Student Union from the truth. While Fr. the ticket price by confirming Board. Wiskirchen was approached that only Notre Dame/Saint (not for the first time, it should Mary's students receive the Dave Temeles be noted) concerning this mat­rate of $8.00. This price is SUB Music Committee ter, our approach could in no available only at the JACC box Oct.. 17, 1989 
'Catholic' implies acceptance for all 
Dear Editor: shame that a non-Christian liko 
In his letter to the editor in myself must remind Mr. McK­the Oct. 18 Observer Keith eon of the original definition McKeon, presuming to know and the fundamental image of what "God says," laments "how his own religion. blatantly immoral the times in Homosexual members of our which we livo have become." community wrote a ldter to us But instead, he provides us with asking openly and S!)nsitivPly another example of how bla­for acceptance and support. tantly self-righteous, abso­They do not deserve the reac­lutist, and un-catholic the re­tionary and mean-spirited r!)­sponse to homosexuals in the sponse which Mr. McKeon's let­Notre Dame community has ter represents. Like Mr. McK­often been and continues to be. eon, I like to believo that Notre 
Mr. McKeon, like too many Dame is a place of spiritual and people, has allowed the dog­intellectual growth; but it matic constructs of his religion, should not allow its Catholic which he presumes speaks for roots to keep its branches from God and society as a whole, to striving for light. Hoots should blind him to the spirit of open­be a source of nourishment, not ness and universal acceptance of bittorness. I think it is im­which stands at its center. He portant for the homosoxual need only look up the word members of our community to "catholic" in the Oxford English know that we are not all Dictionary to learn that it "morally asleep," that some of refers to "universal human in­us (I hope many of us) are glad terest or use; touching the that you are ND too and hope needs, interests, or sympathies that our support for you can of all men." strengthen our community and 
Jesus died on the cross in a assert it as truly catholic, as posture symbolic of his all en­universally aecepting. compassing embrace, his arms .'-;haron L. Pedote extended toward · opposite Off-Campus poles, excluding none. It is a Oct. 18, 1989 
Article inflates u.s. homeless figures 
Dear Editor: Berninger's severely inflated The article, "March on the statistics. Capitol," (The Observer, Oct. Berninger also states that 
10) by Michelle Berninger, con­spending on the homeless has tains some serious fallacies declined during the Beagan concerning the homeless in administration. Actually. the America. · reverse is true. A quick look at 
Ms. Berninger claims that the U.S. Budget will show that most experts now estimate the "Housing Assistance" has risen number of homeless Americans 172 percent from 1980 to 1989. at three million. It would be in­Today the government is teresting to learn which spending over $8,000 per "experts" she is referring to, homeless person in America. for the four major studies that Before any more money is ap­have been done on the homeless portioned, one must search for seem to refute her figure. Last the real reasons why there are year, the National Academy of people on the streets. The re­Sciences discovered 650,000 cent wave of drug abuse and homeless in the nation, and the the deinstitutionalization of Urban Institute found 570,000. over 300,000 mental patients Harvard's Richard Freeman es­who are unable to take care of timated the number at 300,000, themselves might be a good and the General Accounting place to start. Office puts the figure between Marc Hesteiner 300,000 and 600,000. These Grace Hall numbers are much lower than Oct. 10, 1989 

.~
Accent 
Thursday, October 19, 1989. page9 
Brings out the kid in Donters 
MELISSA COMER Fun House. A wide variety of accent writer stunts and games of s~ill force ·­the students to "play" to the n this vicious week of ali-best of their ability. The show 
I 
nighters and hectic pits well-known college rivals, schedules. there seems to such as Notre Dame and Miami, be an uncontrollable urge against each other in a childlike to be a kid again-to just atmosphere which dares the let loose, forget all that participants to enter and to win has to be done. and act as the most outrageous contests silly and crazy as kids so often imaginable. do. A new action game show With each show featuring now attempts to provide that new and different games, an necessary outlet. College Mad episode might find teammates I louse allows two teams repre­amidst slippery chocolate pud­senting rival universities to ding as they attempt to win a compete for a half an hour on a "pillow fight"while straddling a childish level that is rarely pole four feet from the ground. found on campus. Another stunt may involve the Airing Saturday mornings on tossing of water balloons in TV 46, College Mad House is some of the most unbelievable based on the children's show fashions. No matter what the stunt, the action eventually found themselves as contes­child in all who participate. It leads to one final round which tants. The fourth, Kelly Sreit, first aired at the beginning of consists of mind-boggling trivia was chosen to participate after October and is slated to run at questions. For every correct an­auditions which were held on least until the first weekend of swer, the winners gain the hon­campus last year. December. In addition to the or of throwing pies at the oppo­On the first weekend in July, Notre Dame-Miami matchup, nents. 112 contestants were flown to other episodes feature Indiana 
Los Angeles to participate in University against Purdue, Kan­
As this competition between the filming which took place in sas against Missouri, and USC college rivals begins to draw to the Warner Bros. Studios. After against UCLA. a close, the winning team is left watching several tapings, the Host Greg Kinnear leads the to face the "Mad House" which Notre Dame representatives two teams through the series of is a three story obstacle course faced Miami in an outrageous stunts chosen for each episode. challenging the students to find battle that will air on Saturday, With the same producers as the prizes hidden within it. Fighting October 21. children's version, Fun House, the pie-throwing "Roommate College Mad House is sure to from Hell" and the spaghetti­Not only did the students provide much entertainment filled mechanical mouth dubbed have an opportunity to have fun due to the efforts of Scott A. "The Dean of Students" are doing all the ridiculous stunts, Stone and Bob Syncs. among the zany experiences in but they were also able to get to As TV 46 representative Ed­the race to gather such prizes know students from schools gar Cabello believes, "Anybody 
c::­as personal computers, televi­from across the country. And, who knows the experience of 
._.~j 

sions, exotic trips, and money according to Jilanne Klaus, "We college will find College Mad for the school's scholarship met a lot of interesting, fun, House a lot of fun to watch. It's fund. outgoing people." An all­a good way to start your Satur­
Four students traveled to Los expense paid weekend to Los day." And what better way to Angeles this summer to repre­Angeles was an added bonus. be a kid again than to sit back sent Notre Dame in a matchup As Don Gomez put it, "It was a and to laugh on a Saturday with Miami. Three of the four, blast. They treated us really morning? Don Gomez, Jilanne Klaus, and well." Don Stager, are cheerleaders College Mad House immedi­Students here in South who originally expected to ately follows Saturday morning Bend can watch College Mad cheer the team on and instead cartoons and brings out the House at 10:30 a.m. Saturdays. 
Mr. C. survives by concentrating on his sax 
Associated Press "Nobody played instruments bit and remember how it was Street guitarist Steve VanZandt steen's Darkness on the Edge of in my family. My father got that and how screwed up it got. It were on the boardwalk outside Town album. Harsh words were 
NEW YORK-The King of the bug and said he wants his son was a wonderful time. This · a New Jersey club at four in the exchanged all around. The sim­World. The Master of Disaster. to play saxophone. I wanted an whole tour is bringing back this morning. Through wind and ple joy of such earlier songs as The Big Man. After more than electric train for Christmas, but stuff." pouring rain, a large man ap­"Rosalita" and "Thunder Road" 20 years in rock 'n' roll and al­he got me a saxophone. I Clemons also reaches back on peared, dressed in white, carry­was gone. most as many nicknames, Clar­flipped out." his third solo album, A Night ing a saxophone. "That was the beginning of it, ence Clemons prefers the sim­Clemons prides himself on be­With Mr. C, which recalls a few that was a sign," Clemons said. ple tag, Mr. C. ing a survivor, staying around other nicknames -such as That, Clemons agrees, is how "The handwriting was on the 
"All those names, it's a heavy even when music involved far King, referring to King Curtis he and "The Boss" first met, wall for a lot of people, not just cross to bear," said Clemons, more than the simple joy of whose sweet saxophone was back in the early '70s-the Springsteen. You look at the the mightiest supporting star of playing the sax. On tour now featured on hits by the Coast­short, skinny guitarist and his record companies and see the Bruce Springsteen's E Street with Ringo Starr and a band ers, Sam Cooke, Aretha Frank­towering sideman. turnover in personnel and won­Band. "I think about all that that includes Joe Walsh, Levon lin and many others. Clemons The rest quickly became his­der what is going on." stuff, but 'Mr. C' has evolved, Helm and Rick Danko, Clemons covers Cooke's party classic tory. By 1975, critic Jon Landau So Clemons chooses to look and he's the guy who combines is getting those old feelings "Twistin' the Night Away." had dubbed Springsteen the the other way, concentrating on all these things." back. "future of rock 'n' roll" which his music and getting by as best 
As Clemons says, it takes "Every night when Levon "King Curtis is my mentor," lead to simultaneous covers on he can. someone special to play the sax­Helm breaks into 'The Weight,' Clemons said. "I try to pattern Time and Newsweek. Born to ophone. "You got to have an ur­I catch myself," Clemons said of myself after his style. He made Run, featuring Clemons' blister­"I tell people to get out of the ban attitude, be a streetwise the band's drummer. "When a live record that's one of my ing solo, was an instant rock business, forget about it. If person," he said. "I don't know Rick Danko goes into his bass, I favorites. 'Memphis Soul Stew' anthem that even gathered sup­you're not really, really special, whether the saxophone made have flashbacks to when I was and 'Soul Serenade' are two port as the official song of forget about it. It's glamorous me this kind of person or if I young and wild and didn't un­songs that made me understand Springsteen's native New Jer­and beautiful. and at the same was just born to play a saxo­derstand a thing. the kind of music I liked." sey. time, it ain't. You got to have phone. It's an extension ofyour­On stage, Springsteen loves to But business soon set in. Le­faith and you got to have a lot self. "You need to go back a little remember the time he and E gal hassles delayed Spring-of luck." 



The Observer Thursday, October 19,1989
page 10 

... The Observer accepts ctass1f1eds every bus1ness day from 10 a m to 3:30pm at !he Notre Dame off1ce. 314 LaFortune. and from 12·30 to 3 p m at the Samt Mary's off1ce. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class1f1eds is 3 p m All classifleds must be prepa1d The charge 1s 2 cents per character per day. mclud1ng spaces
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 
WORDPROCESSING 272-8827 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 
WORDPROCESSING 272·8827 LOST: 

HOT PINK BOOK BAG AT NOH ON 10117.1 REALLY NEED CONTENTS, ESP. GLASSESIIII PLEASE RETURN. CONTACT SHERI AT #2964 THANKS. 
Help! I lost my father's blue coat at the sophmore formal at SMC in Haggar and I need rt back. ~ is a 44R and has tissue in the left pocket. If you mistakenly took rt, please call Chris at 288-4420. 
Lost: Last Sunday 1 0115 , 1 :00 , BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
ROOMMATE NEEDED Turt Crk Twnhse 277-8398 
For Sale 
ATIENTION ·GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
Need two SMU tix please call 284­49301111111111 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653 
NEED GAS FOR PITI, NAVY & SMU $$$$ CALL TOM & MARTY X 3185 $$FATHER WILL KILL SON IF HE DOES NOT GET A GA TO THE PITI GAME. HELP ME OUT! CALL JOHN AT 3632 OR 36261 $$ 
NEED 5 GA TIX FOR NAVY. CALL 
M.T. CREIGHTON 272-0498 OR 239-6661. 
NEED 3 OR 4 USC GA TX. GOOD BUCKS. 233-2651. 
NEED 3 USC STUDENT TX. $$$$ 233-2651. 
NEED 2 TICKETS NO-USC GAME. 
..................................... 
••••• *** •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
DUE TO AN ERROR, THERE WILL BE NO CLASSIFIED ADS ON FRIDAY OCTOBER 20. SORRY FOR THE INCONVENIENCE.
.................................... 
.................................... 
WE NEED A USC TICKET IN A BIG WAY-x3205 or x3803 
NEED 4 SMU GA'S 
TIM 271-8795 PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED USC & SMU ga and stud tix I love my Rhinestone Cowboy! 

-­ ADOPTION. Happily married white couple wishes to share love and security wrth newborn. Expenses paid. Legal. Please call Margaret and Jerry collect 718-858-6250 evenings and weekends. TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. This Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vigil at 12:15 p.m. Every Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vigils at 12:15 p.m. Admim. building  S. Stepan Football Field , During a lnterHall football game Scapula wrth First Communion Medalion attached. If anyone knows rt's whereabouts, Please call John Carlin at 1178. SArinu<> sentamental value, "Cabbage" will be paid !11111111!1 WANTED BE ON T.V. many needed for commercials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. call (615) 779­7111 Ext. T-1481  ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1· 602·838-8885 EXT. A6262. Travel Certificate,UA value of $427; can use in part sell below 400 call271-8401 or Lib936 PITI STUD FOR SALE. SARA X4940 BEST OFFER TAKES PITI STUD TICKET JOHN @3583  NEED 3 PITI GA TIX $$ CALL: 4272 WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PITI OR SMU. 800-323-7687. NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 NO Alumnus needs GA for any Home Games. Call Clct. after 5 (201)-852 2106  PARENTS DRIVING 400 MILES FROM OHIO TO SEE GAME. PLEASE CALL MARY LOU OR TOM GLASER 234-0610. HE~P!HELPIHELP! My parents havenever been to a N.D. game need G.A.'s for PITI (one stu.) PLEASE call 284-5529 I Need 4 GA's for Navy! Call 284­5532 PLEASE! Need 7 NAVY GAs! Julie X3141 NEED USC GA's $2819  WANTED 1 USC STUD TIX CALL JULIE x2905 NEED TO TRADE: 1 PITI GA FOR I USC GA ALSO NEED USC GA'S SHAWNX1636 WILL SELL USC & PITI STU TKTS AT FAIR PRICE. CALL JOE AT 271-9238 NEEDED:DESPARATELY  
SEEKING 2 PITI GA'SI!!III  
ATIENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602· 838-8885. Ext R6262  TANDY COMPUTER, COLOR MONITOR, DOT MATRIX PRINTER,  NEED 8 USC TIX CALL2207  My brother will trade beautiful ex­wife for ONE Navy or SMU GA Nick x2055  PLEASE CALL JIM AT X4332 OR MARIE 284-5321 THANKS!III  
Typing. Overnight service. 2n-6091  STUDENT talent •••••••••••••••••••Nov.  1Oth  DESK/HUTCH & CHAIR $2,000.00 OR BEST OFFER. CALL AFTER 6PM 234-3131.  Need 4 Miami Ga's, and/or USC stud tix. Mike x2093.  WE NEED NAVY GA's CALL JAY OR JIM #1942  WANTED!III NAVY, NAVY, NAVY  
THE GROOVE IS LOOKING FOR A BASS PlAYER if interested call Leroy x2932  lmprov Contest at Alumni Sr Club prizes up to $$$$100.00 Deadlin for lmprov nile at Alum. SR. Club OCT. 19th call 2n-3653  FOR SALE: KING SIZE WATERBED $150 674-5688 Is It True....Jeeps for $44 through the Government? Call for facts! 1­ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 USC GA'S CALL BETH  3 PITI STUDS. BEST OFFER X3801 I NEED ONE USC TIX CALL 277-7260  TICKETS 'CALL 3553" ask for Dan  
LOST/FOUND LOST: THE FACE PART OF A HELBROS QUARTZ WATCH. IT FELL OFF THE BAND, ETC. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL KRISTEN AT #4865 AND I WILL THINK YOU ARE COOL. LOST: GOLD BEAD NECKLACE CALL LISA AT X4916 LOST: black, Rayban sunglasses 1n the Huddle (erther in the women's bathroom or by the copy machine downstairs). If found please call Liz at 283-35761 LOST: Pair of shoes at Senior Bar.  leave name and number... BE ON T.V. many needed for commercials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. call (615) 779­7111 Ext. T-1481 ATIENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602­838-8885. Ext R6262 STUDENT talent •••••••••••••••••••Nov. 1Oth lmprov Contest at Alumni Sr Club prizes up to $$$$100.00 Deadlin for lmprov nile at Alum. SR. Club OCT. 19th call 2n-3653 leave name and number... Wanted: Apple liE computer. Call Amy, 239-7308.  312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. TICKETS Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks.  283-2722 PLEASE!!!!!!! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I need a USC GA worse than all the rest of these lying schmucks !I John, 277-7450. PLEASE! You need TXTS. call2n-3653 NEED 2 USC GA'S BADLVI CALL MOLLY X3885 I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs Mike 287-3087 Need 2 USC GA's or STUD and 2 PITI GA's or STUD (Parents will pay BIG $$$$) Call CHRIS at x3278 I NEED USC STUDENT TIX  STILL NEED 1 USC STUD. WILL TRADE SMU AND$. KATHLEEN X4930 have 2 USC studs--will trade for NAVY ga's. x3202 NEED 3 USC GA's & HAVE LOTS OF MONEY. LETS DEAL! x3597 HELP!!! NEED 4 USC STD TIX WILL PAY GOOD$! GEORGE 1681 ------------------------------------­NEED 2 SMU tix. 2 stud or 1 stud & 1 GA. Please call 2237 NEEDUSCTIX DON 232-9469 I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S AND 1 PITI GA. CALL LARRY AT X.1864.  I NEED 2 USC TIX will trade two tix for cash and a date with my cousin after the game. Call Matt 277-9485 ------------------------------------­Help me get Iovin'! Need one Navy ticket for girlfriend. Call Jim, x4061. -------------------------­selling 2 PITI/NAVY GA call Jim X4625 HELP!! HELP!! HELP!! I NEED 2 USC GA'S DESPARATELY !I WILL PAY IF YOU WILL HELP! PLEASE CALL KELLY OR CATHI  
Hard to believe but I went to ThA Commons without my Reeboks on! If found please look inside them for  WOULD YOU LIKE TO OFFER DISCOVER CREDIT CARDS? ARE YOU AVAILABLE FOR ONLY A  Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653  AS WELL AS GA'S CALL LLOYD AT x1684  I NEED USC TIX, CALL JOE AT 271-9130  @4985 $$$$$$ HELP$$$ HELP $$$$$$  
my life and call Tom X1694 HEY!II To the guy who FOUND my TAN POLO JACKET at the Senior Cruise and called me last week­MY ROOMATE FORGOT YOUR NAME AND NUMBER. Please call George (again) at X1694. Thanks! LOST: GOLD SIGNET RING WITH INITIAL K BEHIND LYONS. PLEASE CALL KATY AT 2590. LOST: GREEN CARPET. POSSIBLY ON 4TH FLOOR LEWIS. IF SEEN PLEASE CALL MARY BERNARD x2718.  FEW HOURS/WEEK? IF SO, CALL 1-800-932-0528 EXT. 3. WE'LL PAY YOU AS MUCH AS $1 0.00/HOUR. ONLY TEN POSITIONS AVAILABLE. AIDS EDUCATION Need student volunteers to be trained by University Health Services and the Indiana State Board of Health to facilitate AIDS education on our campus. Contact: Carol Seager,239-7497. OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625  NEED GAS FOR PITI, NAVY & SMU $$$$ CALL TOM & MARTY X3185 NEED 3 PITI GA TIX $$ CALL: 4272 WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PITI OR SMU. 800-323-7687. NEED USC GA'S. JOE 1714  TICKETS WANTED FOR PITI-ND GAME. 312-655-4595. If you don~ sell me 9 PITI GAs, I will BLOW UP THE STADIUM AND THEN NO ONE CAN WATCH THE GAME!!!! Pete L x1791 $$ FRENZIED ALUMS $$ Need USC tixl Will pay BIG bucks! Call John @2299 Have 3 PITI STUD 4289 YO! POTATOHEADS ARE COMING ALLTHE WAY FROM IDAHO TO SEE THE USC GAME. SELL ME STUD OR GA'S. CALL scon@ 272-2596.  HELP! I NEED 1 PITI GA ! DAD WILL PAY BIG $$1 CALL AL X1081 WE NEED PITI GA'S! Call Pete-1643 or Mike-1672. WANTEDII2 TIX FOR USC-NO GAME WILL PAY UP TO $75 EA CALL ROGER (213)745-0861 HELP! I NEED TIX FOR PITI GAME. 4 GAS OR STUDS. CALL LIZ X2674 One room -one telephone -Four dudes -many tickets needed. Adam: needs USC GA's (2)  NEED PITI GA'S BETH 3706 I need NAVY & USC GA'S desperately. Call Colin at x1930. $ SMU $ SMU $ SMU $ $GA$GA$GA$ GA$ GA $ Need 2 SMU GA's! -call MATI X1211 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HELP!III!!! I NEED 3 GA FOR THE PITI GAME CALL TONY 288-3032 I HAVE WHAT YOU WANT! ONE PITI STUD FOR SALE! BEST  
MY BROWN LEATHER JACKET AND DUKE SWEATSHIRT WERE TAKEN FROM THE  FEDERAL, STATE, AND CIVIL SERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING THIS AREA! $10,271-$84,157. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL 1­ ND Alumnus needs GA for any Home Games. Call Clct. after 5 (201 )-852 2106  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. BIG$$$$. 2n-9869.  Brian and Pat: need mucho USC student tix Rob: needs Navy GA's (4) Call #3598 to help any or all of us.  OFFER! HURRY BEFORE ITS TOO LATE! CALL CHRIS AT X2727.  
ROCKNE BUILDING ON I 0/5 BETWEEN 2 AND 3 O'CLOCK. THEY HAVE MUCH PERSONAL VALUE TO ME-PLEASE  315-733-6062 EXT #2382H FOR CURRENT LISTING. NEEDED:  NEED 8 USC TIX  PARENTS' ANNIVERSARY NEED 2 USC GA'S BAD CALL MIKE #271-8860  My 3 year old niece is coming to visit . She needs 4 tickets for USC. Student or GA's will do.  I REALLY NEED A NAVY GA FOR MOM Please call Scott x1635 after 8:30  
RETURN, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. REWARD GIVEN.  6USCGA'S REM AT ND BOOT  CALL2207  NEED 3 TICKETS FOR NO-USC  Please call Mike x1612  
CINDY, 220 KNOTI, 114928. FOUND: Calculator in 206 Cushing. Call Richard at x3263 and discribe it. If not, I have a new calculator. LOST: HOT PINK BACKPACK  RIDE PHILA TO ND AFTER BREAK 3 SMUTIX CALL STEVE FOR$$$ 1605. I NEED A RIDE TO DC OR Va. AREA AFTER USC GAME, WILL PAY FOR GAS. TIM 4603  Need 4 Miami Ga's, and/or USC stud tix. Mike x2093. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 USC GA'S CALL BETH  PLEASE HELP! CALL COLLECT 216-247-2828 RODGER NEED 3 TICKETS FOR NO-USC PLEASE HELPI CALL COLLECT 216-247-2828 RODGER  TRADE: NEED SMU FOR PITI ST. TIX #1765 Need 4 GA's and 8 Student tixsfor USC call Scott or Todd at 277-9469  $$$$$$ I need one USC student ticket! PLEASE! Jodi X4090 $$$$$$ TWO PITI STUDENT TIX (apart) Kenny or James x1743  
FROM NORTH DINING HALL ON 10/1 I. I NEED MY PHYSICS TEST-PLEASE!! CALL LISA AT 114838, OR LEAVE TEST AT SIEGFRIED DESK. PLEASE FIND OUR WEDDING  NEED RIDER to MN Oct.22 Gretchen 284-5419 FOR RENT  283-2722 PLEASEI!!IIII $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I need a USC GA worse than all the rest of these lying schmucks!! John, 2n-7450. PLEASE! You need TXTS. call2n-3653  NEED 2 SMU GAS! NEED 2 SMU GAS! $$ X3883 $$ TRADE 1 PITI GA FOR 1 USC GA CALL 1655 OR 4224  I NEED 1 OR 2 PITI GA'SI CALL JIM AT 277-3276 NEED MANY PITI STUD TIXI -DAVE 234-4569 FOR SALE: 2 USC STUD. TIX.  Newly Born Child Seeking ND Baptism -2 Pitt GA's Needed Badly · Will accept donation but willing to ~ay big $$$$$$$ RobX1489 I need 2 smu GAs.Call will at x1876 or andy at x1965.  
PICTURES Ill Recent alumni had  NEED 4 PITI GA'S & 2 USC TIX.  BEST OFFER.  3370.  
red bookbag taken from bookstore on 10117 about 1:15PM. There are severai8X10's an album of 50 5X5's and an album of snapshots.  2 BEDROOM APT. WITH A RIVER VIEW. 8 MINS. FROM CAMPUS. 233-7631' 234-8743.  I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs Mike 287-3087  MONEY NO PROBLEM! MIKE X1236.  SMU STUD. TIX NEEDED. 20n.  NAVY GA' S NEEDED I WILL PAY AND TRADE PITI ST. CALL BRIAN X 1598  
Of course these mean the world to  ATIN: GRAD STUDENTS  
us and many cannot be replaced.  NICE 2 BDRM. HOUSE + GARAGE  Need 2 USC GA's or STUD  
If found call Linda at 2n-2824 or return to securrty office.  NOW AVAILABLE FOR $350/MO PLUS UTILITIES. 2 STUDENTS  and  2 PITI GA's or STUD  I NEED USC and PITI GAs badly Will PAY BIG$$$$$$ or trade for  HELPII need 2 USC GA's at any  
REWARD !II  OK. LEASE & DEPOSIT. 1115  (Parents will pay BIG$$$$)  USC weekend hotel Reservations  price or I 'm not allowed home for  
VASSAR. PH. 272-1265.  Call CHRIS at x3278  Call Dan at 271-9821  break! Please call Jacquie X4959  see CLASS I page 11  
....  


NEED 4 GA'S CALL TIM #1699 NEED PITT G.A.'S $ John 1665 
Hee Haw! I HAVE A DEEP DESIRE TO BUY I WANT YOU TO MAKE MY DAY! $ MOM, DAD & GRANDPA $ THREE U.S.C. TICKETS.
Smile--your behemoth one.

Class 
$ WANTTOSEE 1st NO $ $ GAME. PLEASE HELP! $ Need U.S.C. STUD-KEVIN x1758
continued from page 1 0 DO YOU HAVE THE MEANS? I
$ CALL MARK -271-8860 $ HAPPY BIRTHDAY KRISTIN!! HAVE THE DOUGHII NEED 1 USC AND 1 PITT $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Thought for the day: CALL KATE, AT 4042.
TICKET GA'S OR STUD.~ 
For Sale: 1 Pitt St.-Rosi x2170 This could be your last birthday I know this is a futile attempt NEED PITT GA'S CALL MIKE AT X.1751 
with really LONG, dark, beautifulbut I need 2 USC GA'2FAMILY FROM THE 'BURGH hair.

Please call, Michael @4521 RIDE NEEDED TO BOSTONCALL DENNIS X3454 OR 3458 TOP$ Either way, I hope its the best ever! AREA: 2 RIDERS THAT WILL
NEED MANY USC GA'S OR STUD. Need 2,4,6 USC GA's Love, HELP WITH DRIVING AND
NEED -3 Navy stud tix. Jen 2698 TIX X232-9857 Jim#4274 Pete EXPENSES CALL X1329 
FOR SALE 
I need TIX for ALL games 
TO THE DUCK HUNT CLUB

I NEED USC, AND NAVY GA'S x3690 A-MEE, WHATCH'A GONNA DO? Sponsored by:1 USC and 1 PITT stud tix FOR MY PARENTS COMING IN STARS UPON YOU ARE 21-FR. HARGROW1 USC & 1 PITT STUDENT 
4 sale FOR THEIR FIRST FOOTBALL LET'S GET TOGETHER? HAPPY call #1219 ask for zac GAMES. I ALSO NEED TWO PITT TICKET BEST OFFER BY 5:00PM Need Navy tix B-DAY!! ALL MY LOVE----JOE----It's duck hunting season! 
THURSDAYSTUDENT TICKETS. PLEASE 

Please call x1861 
HARLEQUIN DUCK­CALL JOHN AT 3586. 

HEY blonde bimbo wl glasses in multicolored, that is-huntingCALL JIM@ X-1720. PLEASE
TOP$ Need Pitt and SMU Trubac 9:30 econ class-"ROCK season inLEAVE MESSAGE.
ALL HOME GA'S NEED GA AND STU TIX FOR USC GA's or STU TXs ON DUDE" "STOCK PRICE ISN'T 312-920-9350 AND PITT. CALL CHRIS please, call 4825 S..T, BOYS!" Could you get any KA, LA, MA, ZOO, M I .
I NEED 3 PITT STUDENTAT x1067 more obnoxious?
TICKETS!!!!!!!! If you're selling Want to join? Call 3374! Ask for any, please call Michelle x4096. 
DON DON DON DON DON DON Casey!
PERSONALS
Have USC & Pitt St. tickets NEED PITT GA'S CALL MIKECa11Tom4180 I'M INFATUATED WITH YOU. I need a ride to INDY after USCX1714 YOU ARE SO SEXUAL!! x2055 Nick 
Hi T.Bass!!! TEXAS,NEED 2 USC GA'S X2482 
HELP! BROS COMING FROM FEHRS FEHRS FEHRS FEHRS KEN TYSIAC!!!
Interested in selling tickets to USC OH, AND NANG. 
About the $800,000 ..

game? Need 2 GA or student. I LOVE YOU!
FOR SALE: Prtt ST tic. JULIE Maurice Schwartz wants to know if
Please call 232-0723 (ask for 
CRESTED Bti'.Js§,. 
x2386 Make offer. you'll take a check! 
Laurie) Hi T.Bass!!!
NOVEMBER 22·26 * 4NIGHTS~;-f. 
Happy 21st Birthday! -Mary and Molly
S T E A M 8'0j.l... _ 
I WANT TO TRADE MY PITT OH, AND NANG,
JANUARY 2· 12 *5OR 6 NIGHTS-';-'~ 
A public service announcement Three domers need a ride to STUD. FOR YOUR NAVY AND I LOVE YOU!
HAVE USC Stud Tix from the man with the strength of O'Hare anytime Sun. We'd rather
BRECKENRl~~l: 
SMU TIX. CALL MATT X3100. 
JANUARY 2·7 *5 NIGHTS J~ ~ 
X1715 ten men and the man who will not pay tor United Limo. If you can 
WINTER PA~JQI{ 
Best Offer I HAVE 2 SMU GA'S-surely have more than one help call Kelley 4821 or Monica & 
I HAVE 2 USC GA'S. WILL TRADE
JANUARY 2·7 *5 NIGHTS •--;:::.\:.!!._6/ 
1NEED 2 Pm GA'S wedding. Sara 4823. 
THEM FOR 2 PITT GA'S. CALL 
CALL MATT X2265 
VAIL/BEAVER C~P--8. 
CRAIG. X31 00.

JANUARY 5-12 *5..OR 7 NIGHts·-{~~ 
NEED ANY PITT GA'S $$$$$$$$ p.s. Thanks to you and Melissa Model UN will meet tonight at 
~ 

..(". 

MUGHO DINERO$ BOB Q X1409 for all the treats and tor cleaning 7:00pm in 220 Hayes-Healey.
LOTS 0' $$$$$$$$ ADOPTION -Facing pregnancy our room. You're almost too nice.
~ 

I NEED Pm GA's alone? Let us help. Childless NEED 2 PITT GA'S. CALL SANDY CALL DAN AT 271-9821 couple offering loving home and
X4012 One way ticket So Bend to Seattle WHO'S THE MAN?
8U1 AlftJAl COillWII WWTBI Ill 8RUJ(I 
secure future for your infant. 
Dec 21. Leave SB 8:30 am HE'S THE MAN..,
TOU FRff NORMArnN I REIEI!VATIONI 

I NEED TWO SMU GA'S Confidential -medical and legal arrive Seat. 12:16 pm. $140 He's the GRACE FOOTBALLCALL SCOTT X4113 expenses paid. Call collect
1·800·321·5911 
Call 255-6114 MAN! anytime, Sandy and Kurt (317)'I NEED NAVY GA'S FOR SALE: TWO PITT STUD TIX 
894-5748.

PETE 271-8795 Best of luck to Sully and the team-
I NEED USC, MIAMI, & ALL HOME Together, senior section, 35 yd In 1 USC stud for sale GAME TIX 272-6306 Call272-3618, leave message
HELP ME!! Dave x1620 at Cartier Field I NEED 2 PITT GA's There once was a boy named Ted GRACE vs. OFF-CAMPUSNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY 
CALL CHRIS @1027 who was a real zer MONDAY the 13th of NOVEMBER tonight...prime time!!
I need 5 G.A.'s 
One night came a minor is not a Friday the 13th so it's cool. 
or anything you have together NEED ONE USC G.A. and
Need 11 GA's for Navy. 271-8347. sporting black lace wares
NAME YOUR PRICE I Ill FOUR PITT G.A.s: Luke x3113
Ask for Tony or Sue. He later felt finer MONDAY the 13th of NOVEMBER THE GREAT PUMKINCall Kyle-#3775 
after running his hand thru her hair is not a Friday the 13th so it's cool. IS COMING NEED USC-STUDENT TIX They now refer to him as Rollie and SMU-GA'S. PLEASE CALL because of what came to pass
DE$$$$$$$$$PERATEL Y NEED 
AMY AT 283-4220. But disclosing his name is sheer
NAVY GAs X350D-Watts 
folly

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED PITT GA'S!!!!! For the colonel is after his ___I 
WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS NEED ANY NUMBER OF GA OR
MY PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I
CALL MATT AT 1961 STUDENT TIX FOR USC AND
DON'T FIND THEM TICKETS!! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PITT. CALL 312-609-4343 ASK 
PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT 283-CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable 
FOR PAUL. 

Need 2 USC Students Tix I need GA tixs for all home games 
4220 IF YOU CAN HELP ME! atmosphere, daily & weekly 
Call Bob 271-5681. Esp. for USC$$ 284-5227 Patty 
PITTGA'S! specials, pool table, English darts, 
and great company. 234-3541 BE SURE TO GET YOUR The University Directories are in!!
I need 2 USC GA's 
LOU HOLTZ HEADS Please call . Mary Kay 284-5227 Wanted: 2 Tix for the SMU Game! FOR THE PEP RALLY AND GAME 
Two Pitt student tickets HiAg! Off Campus and Graduate 
For Sale. Call x1662 students, please pick them up at
Call Tom at x2333 

MIAMI FLIGHTS' MIAMI FLIGHTS the secretary's desk on the 2nd LOU HEADS! 
Round-trip airfares to Miami or floor of LaFortune. On Campus
I NEED TO TRADE 4 SMU OR Need 2 Pitt GA's! Will trade with 
SEX! SEXI SEX! Fort Lauderdale. Depart students contact your RA or Hall
2 PITT GA'S FOR AS MANY USC tickets or buy with$. Call Amy 
LOU HEADS! USC GA'S AS POSSIBLE 284-5183.
SMU Tickets November 23 from Midway President. Coordinated between 
Students and/or GA's needed for (Chicago); return November 27 to Student Government and HPC.
PLEASE CALL 284 5022. 
the SMU .Game Midway (Chi.) . $239 for students, Money's No Object!l! Need ride back from COLORADO $265 for others. Tix sold on first -MARY BERNARD:
2 USC st tkts for sale. Best offer.
Call Jeff@ x1150 to ND between Oct. 26-29. Will come, first-serve basis, and are HAPPY B-DAY FRIDAY!
Call Tree or Tina at 284-5183. 
share expenses. Katy #4514. non-refundable. Anthony Travel YOU'RE BEAUTIFUL!
Mom and Dad are kind of weird. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 USC 1-800-7DOMERS
Even after seeing the boring 
TICKETS. PLEASE HELP CALL Your USC tickets= my$$$ 
Purdue game. they rarin' to see I have 2 SMU GA's(sec.10) Best 
X2741 if you can help call S.W.B.H.C. MEMBERS UNITE!! 
more NO football. Help them out. Offer. Rich 3578 Kathleen x3427They'll buy any two G.A.s for any 
Young attractive male, looking to Show your spirit and stay dry this 
home game. I NEED 2 USC GA AND 1 ST 
start relationship with Pitt GAs Saturday by waring your
Call #3714 and leave a message. Kevin x2322 or 2376
Call Mike@ 2288 if interested. NOTRE DAME RAIN PONCHO. WE NEED YOUR USC TICKET!!! Cost is only $2.50. Get them at the
NEED NAVY & SMU GA'S. DON JOY SMITH !!!!!!
USC NAVY USC NAVY USC PLEASE CALL x3205 or x3803 TO Information Desk in LaFortune.
X2335

NEED 2 or 4 Pitt GA's I desperately need tickets to MAKE SOME PEOPLE VERY More and more are doing it! 
HEY! remember me?

Call Eric x1008 the USC AND NAVY games. HAPPY.
4 SALE: 1 USC & 1 PITT STUD.
Please help me!!! Call Kate at BEST OFFER: 234-7274 DEBBIE 
NEED 1 USC & 1 PITT GA CALL x1337. 16550R4224 USC NAVY USC NAVY USC 
NEED 2 USC GA'S!! To Girl in GREEN: You wore a
There are still some of you who

MIKE x3501 tie-die cactus(?); I wore 'Irish
I NEED PITT. SMU GA'S HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOE! need to pick up your VALUE Spring Run.' Try me. 232-0329.
PLEASE!! #2819 I need 1 Navy stud. ticket love & sunshine, CHECK COUPON BOOK that your -The guy in GREEN.
Call Jim at x1192 t. bass, the BR and the VCR parents purchased. Get them at
NEED 4 SMU GA'S the Information Desk in LaFortune.
1890

2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale Everybody ask Mary Beth P. what GET THE OFFICIAL272-5092 CAN YOU BELIEVE IT??? the number 135 means to her. HELP! I need a ride to Mpls area NDvs.USC
ROUNDTRIP PLANE TIX TO N.Y. for break. Will help with driving, 
8 STUD. USC TIX 4 SALE. 234-T-SHIRT THURS AND FAliN
ONLY $220!!! KEITH, MARYBETH,&KELL Y gas, tolls. Please call Jackie
2476. DINING HALLS/ CALL X2614 I OR
NEED 4 NAVY GA's CALL CHRIS AT x1688 SOON CONNOR--WELCOME BACK!! x4161 STOP AT SENIOR CLASS 
PLEASE CALL KARIN BREAK'S ALMOST HERE! I'VE MISSED YOU ALL TONS!
I NEED USC STUDS AND GA'S OFFICEI!!
x1321 COULD Y A TELL? GET
X1617, X1612 RICK. 

$.$.$·$·$·$·$.$'$'$'$.$'$'$'$. PSYCHED FOR A GREAT WEEK NEEDED: $' WITH YOUR FAV. 2PITTGA's
$$ Frenzied Alums with deepNeed 2 Navy Student Tickets SISIAUNTIBBSITTER IN K.C.­FOR MOM AND DAD
wallets need USC GA's !! Call John @ 2299.$$ 
NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S Call Norm x4785. Big money! MARY #2030 1 Pm sruo 
It's LAURA STANTON'S

TRACY X2613 WANTED: 4NAVYTIX SMT 
twenty-second birthday Need U S C Ga have Pitt Ga. St 
WANTED: 4USCTIX ILUB 
October 24th 

+ Cash Call x2266 Pete 'X'PITTTIX BLUE during break so wish the oldFour USC GA's
NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S STUDENT OR GA'S ACCEPTED. MJM woman a happy one before it is too
1 Pmsruo PLEASE CALL, 
late. Love, Your Young Monkey­Please call Charolette or Renee at

$$$$ TRACY X2613 Please Help! Need 15 USC tix + MATT@X1650 buddies, Melissa + Marga x4121 !!! 
RIDE TO WASHINTON D. C. Call Dan 271-0972. 
ride FROM PHILLY after break. 
NEEDED FOR BREAK
TOPH-­

We want em bad! CAN'T WAIT FOR THAT Check the mail cuz the MOUSE is 
Rich Alumni Father will share expenses 
Needs USC GAs call INGO at 2348 or 2355 $$$ reward for your help! Have 2 Navy & 2 SMU GA's. Need 
TURKEY DINNER!!!! going to be loose on the 15th NOV. Luff you! 
Call Tim X2037 2 USC & 2 Pitt GA's. Call Bill X1166 
Do you need a mouse in your

We Need USC Studs or GAs 
house?... use your imagination ...

Will Pay $$ Call Jeff or Kevin 
!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!•!*!*!*!*!*!*!*!
USC STUD. TICKET FOR SALE. NEED smu ga's 277-5934 CALL 271-5667 WITH BEST ij's LAURA STANTON'S ************** ** •••••••••••••••••••• TWENTY -SECOND BIRTHDAY 
@2313 

OFFER. •DESPERATEL Y SEEKING USC
WE NEED NAVY GA's OR STUD 
FRATEMEISTER:
NEED LOTS OF NAVY TIX-GA'S TIX. CALL KRISTEN X2670.
TIX. CALL DAVE OR MIKE X1059 
Here's to you and Kathy; on October 24th 
or STUD. CALL TOM-1694. Help!!! I need 2 USC GAs ···································· 
during break

Please call Shannon at 284-5244.
PITT STUD TKTS 4 SALE!!! CALL 
ON YOUR BIRTHDAY!!! YOU ARE MY SUNSHINE, MY
Will pay good $

NEED 2 USC TIX. MAURA 277-6896 leave name /ph. #I bid 
so wish the old woman a happy ONLY SUNSHINE !!!!!!! 
288-0885. will decide by 10119. 
From your SOUTHERN Hog pals. one now before its too late!! Have a swell day Mamba I 
HAVE MIAMI GA's! NEED PITT Love, your YOUNG monkey­HELP! I NEED 4 USC TIX (2 GA'S GA's! LET'S MAKE A DEAU Need USC GA Tix. Call Joe at !* !* !* !* !* !* !* !* !* !* !* !"' !* !* !"' !* !*!*I*!*!*! buddies, Melissa and Marga HELP! Please sell me your USC
.,.,

2 STUD.) CALL 284-5334 Call Robin at X4206! 287-4561 after 6p.m. tickets!! Call Tina at x4840 

----------~------~--~--.------------------------------~-----------------------------· -­
page 12 The Observer Thursday, October 19, 1989 
World Series postponed in wake of quake's destruction 
Oakland's Welch gives ~thumbs­down' to condition of future home 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Baseball still hoped Wednesday to salvage a World Series shaken by the Bay area's worst earthquake since 1906, though it was uncertain when or where games could resume as the mayor of Oakland asked the games not be played immediately. 
Game 3 of the Bay Bridge Series between the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants was postponed for the second straight day, but Commissioner Fay Vincent said, "Our inclination is to stay the course." 
More than 200 people were killed and hundreds were injured when the earthquake struck at 5:04 p.m. PDT Tuesday, a half-hour before game time. Part of the Bay Bridge, the very symbol of the Series, collapsed. 
There seemed to be little thought by baseball oflicials to entirely canceling the Series, in which Oakland leads San Francisco 2-0, but baseball was waiting from city officials to assess the damage, physical and mental. 
Oakland mayor Lionel Wilson said late Wednesday he had met with Athletics' representatives told them they should not resume play immediately. 


Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Bob Welch, the scheduled pitcher for the Oakland Athletics in Game 3 of the World Series, looked with dismay at his earthquake-damaged future home Wednesday, after a walk through the hard-hit Marina district. 
Welch, with a pained expression on his face, turned to his wife Mary Ellen and gave a "thumbs down" sign. 
Mrs. Welch held the couple's 10-week-old son Dylan in her arms and tried unsuccessfully to hold back tears, after a 
short walk from their current residence, an apartment. They 
APPhoto 

Oakland Athletic's pitcher Bob Welch, who was scheduled to start in 
had spent the night without
Game 3 of the World Series, has put baseball on the back burner to 
water, electricity or heat.
inv~stigate the condition of his future home, which was damaged 
Natural gas service in the area
dunng Tuesday's earthquake. 

More people have survived cancer than now live in the City of Los Angeles. 
We are winning. 


A's, was "not significant." 
*~ 
j 
But he said "the proper people have not examined it yet" and added that even if it 
were possible to keep the Series in the Bay area, he was 
"I did tell them that at this concerned whether it would be time, it would be inappropriate appropriate right now. One to play baseball in this city other possibililty was to move while there are still bodies the Series to a neutral site for underneath the concrete," the first time. Wilson said at the Alameda "We want to be very sensitive Naval Air Station. to the state of the community," 
Wilson said the team oflicials Vincent said. "Our modest little were supportive of his request, game is not a priority." then estimated it would take at Power, telephones and other 
least four to five days to services were limited during the recover the bodies from cleanup. So too, fortunately, underneath double-decked was crime. Interstate 880, the freeway Debris littered the streets, which collapsed and was windows from the best shops responsible an estimated 250-were shattered and hotel plus deaths. lobbies were strewn with 
The possibility of playing as sleepers. Tourists roamed with soon as Thursday night had not video cameras, focusing on been ruled out, but that would cracks in the concrete and only happen if the stadium were frozen clock faces. deemed safe and other 
logistics, such as Candlestick Park, where transportation, could be 60,000 fans were watching the worked out. Giants and Athletics warm up 
The Giants told their players when the stadium shook, and Wednesday to be at Candlestick the Oakland Coliseum were Park Thursday at 1 p.m. for a inspected during the day. workout or, possibly, to play a game. The strongest possibility if 
Vincent said baseball neither ballpark were executives were told that structurally sound was Dodget damage at both Candlestick Stadium, although it might tak1 Park, home of the Giants, and a couple of days to prepare th! 
Oakland Coliseum, home of the field. 
·-was cut off because of the 
danger of more fires in the 
area, where a major blaze 
erupted following the quake. 

The earthquake caused a 
postponement of Game 3 at 
Candlestick Park, home of the 
San Francisco Giants. Welch 
was in the trainer's room, 
getting his arm rubbed. when 
the quake struck, shaking loose 
chunks of concrete throughout 
the stadium with about 60,000 
people waiting to see the game. 
The couple and friends who 
were at the stadium then went 
through an anxious drive to 
their Marina-area apartment 

'>' ~~' 
f. 

AP Photo 
The Oakland A's are two games ahead of the San Francisco Giants, but baseball is not a priority in the San Francisco Bay area in the aftermath of Tuesday's devasting earthquake. The third day of play was postponed for the second straight day. 
where the Welch's son was with a babysitter. The baby and sitter were OK, and the Beach Street apartment suffered no serious damage. 
"It was an ugly ride. because we heard on the radio there was a big firn on Beach Strm~t and we had left the baby (with a sitter) at the apartment," Welch said. "The ride took about two hours." 
Norm ally, without traffic tieups, the Welch apartment is about 30 minutes from Candlestick Park. 
"I don't worry about the World Series," Weleh said of the disaster which caused widespread damage in a large area of Northern California. 
The couple recently bought the condominium unit in a two­story building. 
taw. 


~------------------------·--­
----------------.--------------------------------------­
Thursday, October 19, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Red Wings beat North.Stars; Devils down slumping Flyers 

Associated Press 
DETROIT -Steve Yzerman had two goals and an assist as the Detroit Red Wings beat Minnesota 4-3 Wednesday night and handed the North Stars their first loss of the NHL season. 
The North Stars, the NHL's last unbeaten team, had tied a club record with a 5-0-1 start. Last year Minnesota didn't notch its fifth win until Game 23. 
Detroit's Glen Hanlon turned away 20 of 23 shots to win his third straight start. He made a clutch save on a breakaway by Brian Bellows with 1:19 remaining. 
North Stars goalie Kari Takko, who faced 27 shots, was pulled immediately afterward for an extra attacker. But he returned with three seconds left in the game after Larry Murphy was called for holding Yzerman. 
Gerard Galland, playing his last game before beginning a five-game suspension, gave Detroit a 1-0 lead at 4:18 of the first period after Yzerman won a faceoff in the right circle. Gallant drew his suspension for a foul against Vancouver's Garth Butcher in the Red Wings' second game. 
The North Stars gave up their first short-handed goal of the season at 6:28 of the first period when Dave Barr took a pass from John Chabot and tucked it behind Takko into the lower left corner of the net. Both of Barr's goals this season have come while the Red Wings were killing a penalty. 
Devils 5, Flyers 3 
Soviet star Viacheslav Fetisov scored his first NHL goal, sparking a three-goal outburst in 2:01 of the first period as the New Jersey Devils coasted to a victory over the struggling Philadelphia Flyers on Wednesday night. 
The Devils, who also beat the Flyers in Philadelphia on opening night, put the game away early by scoring on four of their first seven shots against Pete Peeters. 
Fetisov, the former captain of the Soviet National Team, scored on a 35-foot straight-on wrist shot after a beautiful give-and-go with John MacLean at 4:36. Fetisov had four assists in the Devils' first five games. 
The goal snapped the Devils' 0-for-12 slump on the power play over the past four games. 
Rookie Janne Ojanen of Finland scored his second of the season just 32 seconds after Fetisov's goal, with the aid of a friendly carom off the boards. Jim Korn shot the puck into the Flyers' zone, and as Peeters left the net to play it, the puck bounced out in front to a wide-open Ojanen. 
Whalers 2, Sabres 1 
Hartford defenseman Sylvain Cote scored during a goalmouth scramble with 3:11 left in the third period to give the Whalers a NHL victory over the Buffalo Sabres Wednesday night. 
Cote slipped in from the right point and scored off a pass 
1-~ 

AP Photo The Hartford Whalers downed the Buffalo Sabres 2-1 in NHL action Wednesday night. Hartford 's Sylvain Cote found the net with 3:11 left in the third period to snap the Whalers two-game losing streak. In other NHL action, Detroit handed Minnesota its first loss of the season by defeating the North Stars 4-3. The New Jersey Devils and the Philadelphia Flyers did battle in East Rutherford, N.J. as the Devils downed the struggling Flyers 5-3. 
from the corner toward the
from Ron Francis to snap a 1-1 allowed just five goals in 179 crease that hit goaltender Steve tie. minutes. Darren Puppa finished Weeks' skate and went over thePat Verbeek scored at 5:58 of with 28 saves for Buffalo. 
goal line for the game-winner
the first period to give 
at 4:19.
Hartford a 1-0 lead which the Whalers held until the 15:15 Ma_ple Leafs 4, mark of the third period when Canucks 3 Blues 9, Penguins 3 
Mike Ramsey scored for the Ed Olczyk's fluke goal early Brett Hull scored three goals Sabres to tie the game 1-1. in the third period gave and assisted on two by Sergio Toronto a 4-3 victory over the Momesso to lead the St. Louis 
The victory snapped a two­Vancouver Canucks Wednesday Blues to a 9-3 NHL win over the game losing streak for the night, ending end the Leafs' Pittsburgh Penguins Wednesday Whalers. The loss was the four-game losing streak. night. second in a row for Buffalo. Vancouver's Brian Bradley The Penguins came within 
Whaler goaltender Mike Liut tied the game with a 10-foot 1:30 of equalling the stopped 24 shots to lower his shot from a bad angle past franchise's worst home loss. league-leading goals-against Allan Bester at 2:19 of the final They had lost 9-1 to Montreal average to 1.67. Liut has period. But Olczyk slid the puck in 1976 and Buffalo in 1980. 
.. 
page 14 The Observer Thursday, October 19, 1989 
Vols will know importance of Cobb in SEC clash with 'Barna 
BY STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
It won't take long to realize just how much running back Heggie Cobb, kicked off the Tennessee team last week, meant to the Volunteer offense. 
In its first game since Cobb's dismissal, sixth-ranked Tennessee puts its 10-game winning streak on the line against 1Oth-ranked undefeated Alabama. The winner of Saturday's game at Birmingham, Ala., will have the inside track to the Southeastern Conference championship. 
Cobb, whose dismissal reportedly was drug-related, had averaged over 120 yards per game this season and rushed for 225 yards against Auburn's famed run defense in a 21-14 victory over the Tigers three weeks ago. 
Chuck Webb, who teamed with Cobb to form the "Cobb­Web" offense prior to the incident, replaces Cobb in the backfield. 
Alabama coach Bill Curry claims that Cobb's departure will actually help the Vols. 
LaVigne 
continued from page 16 
field, accelerated through the middle of the field past two more sluggish defenders and blasted a shot underneath the crossbar for his tenth goal of the season. 
One minute later, Brendan Dillman carried the ball down the left side and drove a low cross toward Demon goalkeeper Rich Horwath, who misplayed the ball. Dillman's cross rolled past Horwath to a wide open Steve LaVigne. who poked the ball into the net. 
LaVigne was the hero of the day for the Irish. In addition to the goal. he tallied three assists Wednesday to bring his season point total to 13, second only to Pendergast's 23 on the Irish squad. 

·-
"Like anybody, Steve is sensitive, and his confidence comes and goes," says Grace, "When he's confident. he is just a tremendous player. Oddly enough, he is doing all of his scoring from the fullback and midfield positions, and not from the sweeper position, but he docs a great job for us, and 
·11F£S ABEACH... .. 
f1111f/J11 f/tllt/IH//1'1\It/llhiiii//1/III'IIJIIIIIflllfJ/1 '""" '''fll "tJimmlrnhiiiJII""'"~ }f 'l'llltv/111 '/"'"'"''"'''''""''''"4"'' ''"'""'~'tl•'''''" ,.,),.,,,,
=· 

"(Tennessee) not only has great athletes, but they play with great enthusiasm and great coaching," Curry said. 
"When a major loss occurs to a team like that. what they do is they play together and just get better as a unit." 
Tennessee overcame the loss of a major player in its last Sugar Bowl season. Darryl Dickey stepped in for the injured all-America candidate quarterback Tony Hobinson midway through the 1985 season, and the Vols were undefeated the rest of the way. 
Alabama stumbled past Southwest Louisiana 24-17 last Saturday after a week in which Curry says the team was hit by the flu bug. The Tide is healthy now, and quarterback Joff Dunn has recovered from injury. 
Replacing Dunn the last two weeks, Gary Hollingsworth passed for 363 yards in a 62-27 win over Mississippi. Curry has 
not  named  a  starting  
quarterback  for Saturday's  
contest.  
•••  

With Michael Taylor 

CollegeV
Football 

recovered from the injury he suffered against Notre Dame last month. Michigan coach Bo Schernbechler has not decided whether he will start Taylor or freshman Elvis Grbac this Saturday at Iowa. 
Schernbechler has gone to great pains not to call his situation a quarterback controversy. 
"I do not know why people make an issue of this," Schernbechler said. "We have two good quarterbacks and feel comfortable with both." 
While Grbac and Southern Cal quarterback Todd Marinovich have enjoyed success as redshirt freshmen. the same can't be said of classmate Bret Johnson. 
Johnson, the starting quarterback for beleagured UCLA, was 11-of-22 with two interceptions in last Saturday's 42-7 loss to No. 22 Arizona. 
utes left in the match. smashing home yet another LaVigne cross for his second goal of the season. Crowe's goal sealed the second big Irish victory in three days, as they thumped Val­paraiso 9-2 Monday night. 
With only three games remaining before the MCC playoffs commence on November 2, Grace hopes the 
past two games are and indication of things to come. At the very least, they are a step in the right direction. 
"We want to go into the MCC tournament on a bit of a roll," says Grace, "But right now our first concern is Loyola. We beat them 4-1 at their place earlier in the year, but their coach, Hay O'Connell, is a good friend of mine, and he told me after that game that Loyola would give us a better game the second time around." 
The Irish will meet the Hunnin' Hamblers Friday night at 7:30 at Krause Stadium and attempt to record their second victory in a row. A victory against Loyola would improve their MCC conference record to 5-0-1 and their overall record 
to 7-5-3. 

For the facts call your local Red Cross. or write, AIDS 
+

American Red Cross l:i"!: IV..Shington. DC 20006 
Shutout 
continued from page 16 

shutouts, the stingy Irish defensive corps has allowed a mere pittance of three shots on goal, two of which carne against Saint Mary's. 
"I think we played extremely well," noted the Irish head coach Dennis Grace. "Their defense was strong, especially the sweeper and goalkeeper, but we really dominated the game. The goal on the penalty kick gave us quite a boost, and we really took control after that. Also, it was sort of appropriate that K.T. Sullivan 
TONIGHT 8:00pm 

Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Center Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series PRESENTS Ronald Homer ND'68 
CEO Boston Bank of Commerce 
with a lecture entitled 
Economics and Race America's Challenge for the 21st Century 
Sponsored by Student Alumni Relations Group ND Finance Club League of Black Business Students S.A.R.G. LBBS 
LSU has had a season even more disappointing than UClA. 3-3. A 10-6 loss to Auburn last weekend dropped LSU's record to 1-4. 
"I'm glad I'm young because I'm 36 going on 80 right now," said Tigers coach Mike Archer. "When you play major college football and play in a conference like the SEC, so many of the games are decided in the fourth quarter, and it's one play that makes the difTerence. 
"We've gone back in the last live years, and there have been 10 to 15 games that we won that we could have very easily lost. Now we're just not making those plays." 
Florida State, which has moved from the critical list to the Top 20 list since rebounding from an 0-2 start, is entering the most difficult portion of the nation's toughest schedule. 
The 15th-ranked Seminoles host Auburn this Saturday and Miami next weekend. 
Quarterback Peter Torn Willis has led Florida State's recent surge. The fifth-year senior is averaging more than 270 passing yards per game, and Pat Dye calls him the toughest opposing quarterback he has seen in his Auburn tenure. 
"We've played against some pretty good ones -Boomer Esiason at Maryland, Wayne Peace at Florida and (Don) McPherson at Syracuse." said Dye, "but this kid has the best arm and the best supporting east we've played. 
"I fully realize (Florida State). for whatever reason, wasn't ready to play early in the year, but they're a totally different football team and right now are probably as good as anybody in the country." 
Further down tho Sunshine State. turmoil continues at the University of Florida. Satarting quarterback Kyle Morris was kicked off the team this week for betting on football games. Lex Smith will replace Morris. 
Despite all the troubles, Florida has won five straight games and is 20th in the nation heading into Saturday's game with New Mexico. 
had a goal in her last horne 
game." 

On the other side of the coin, 
Chicago head coach Juan Luco, 
in his third season with the 
Maroons, said that he was 
"pleased as a whole. The team 
responded well, and we hope to 
keep up our schedule with 
Notre Dame in the future." 

Meanwhile, the Irish must now prepare for the Virginia Classic and Dayton Tournament. where they will face nationally-ranked Virginia and Duke, as well as Dayton . and Xavier. In the words of coach Grace, ''I'm proud of our girls. We're peaking at the right time, and if we play to our 
potential, we'll be line." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Shuttle service for students to the Notre Dame-USC baseball game will begin at 6 p.m. Thursday from the main circle. The buses will leave Friday immediately following the pep rally from the Joyce ACC. 
Basketball ticket sales begin Monday, Oct. 30. Seniors may buy tickets on Monday, juniors on Tuesday, sophomores, grad and law students on Wednesday and freshmen on Thursday. Applications will be in students' mailboxes by Oct. 30. Tickets for the 11 horne games are $55 for lower arena and $44 for bleachers. 

RESHMAN-SOPHOMORE TRIP TO 
--EACON BOW 
THURSDAY,OCTOBER19 
BUSES LEAVING MAIN CIRCLE AT 9:00 AND 9:30 
Take a study break and come have a ball!! 
-----------------------------------------------------------------.--------------------------------------~~ 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Dirty book sale. Cloth $1.50; Paper $1.00; new and recent titles 20% off. Hesburgh Library Concourse. 
Mid-semester Deficiency Reports Due in the Registrar's Office. 
6 p.m. Presentation and reception for any student inter­ested in discovering career opportunities with Morgan Stanley. Upper Lounge, University Club. Sponsored by Ca­reer and Placement Services. 
7 p.m. Presentation for all ME, EE, and ChEg students interested in discovering career opportunities with IBM. 106 Cushing Hall of Engineering. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
7 p.m. The special problems faced by women and minor­ity students in science and engineering will be addressed in a lecture by Prof. Taft Broome of Howard University. Galvin Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Pugwash. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Top Round of Beef Italian Lasagna Baked Sole Liver and Onions Cheese Enchiladas Baked Lemon Dill Fish 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Wilbur and Wendel 
f'I\~'{BE ('D GH BEITER GRA.OE.S IF '{oJ Offi;;Rt.D M~ $\ FOR EI/ER'{ "D: $5 FOR ~\JER'{ "C; ~ \0 FOR E'.J'C.?..'{ ·g·; AND $50 I<JR 
El/t.Ri 'f>..".' 
\ 
ACROSS 

1 Liven a Gets 15 Preserved bodies 16 Ammunition wagon 11 Lands under single rulers 18 Unpleasant site 
or sight 19 Electric unit 20 Tangled 22 West or Murray 23 Press 25 Ecclesiastical 
council 
26Stan-, saxophonist 27 Worries 29 Erhard's therapy 30 Street show 31 Gave a warning 33 Ocean floors 35 Animal doc 36 Akin 37 Wants 41 Joined ends of w1re.e.g. 45 Drew or Terry 46 "Does--oats 
48 Wait on 49 Bar order 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-7+7+.=+::~ -=+::+:::--+-=-~ 


50 Opposed to rural 52 Dakota Indians 53 Farewell, to Cato 54 Assumed names 56 Verb in the Beatitudes 57 Treeless plain 59 Stickup man 61 Lasting forever 62 Most nervous 63 Rectify 64 Hardy's "The 
DOWN 
1 Ernest Bloch symphony 2 Arabic or Roman item 3 Entreat 4 Kubrick film, to a Roman 5 Ventilates 6 Troublesome times, for many 7 Tried 8 Leopards' cousins 9 Howled 10 Equaled the score 11 Kiang, e.g. 12 Corresponding part 13 Gossiped, in Georgia 

14 Reacts to an  37 Corrupting  44Aqandons  
allergy  agent  47 Arab cloak  
21 Hasp. group 24 More insolent  38 Upgrade 39 Describing a  50 Bones below the humeri  
26 More talkative 28 Severe 30 Train tracks 32 Summer, in Caen  raglan 40 Soap operas, e.g. 41 Hidden away 42 Originates  51 Penurious 54 Brittany's patron saint 55 Omen  
34 Sixth sense:  43 Hillary's  58 Opposite of dep.  
Abbr.  conquest  60 N.M. Indian  

l'M NOT Gaii'IG TO 1«/B£ 'fOIJ, CAL'I\1'-1. '(Q\J S~O\li.D 
~P?L~ '10VR'S£Lf fOR bJR OWN GOOO. 

BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

RATS. I T~oJG\\T 
1 COIJLD M,.,_I<E. AN Ef>5'1 fO\JR BVC.K'S. 
Jay Hosler 
_-. 
"Uh-oh! It says here: 'A good mimic, this bird should not be exposed to foul or abusive sounds."' 
• 

-· 
F~m..,·~ !·~N ~s I on t=t-tldllrcU$~ ~.ttl ~ ~:Prl~ 4=~-b~so 
·~ ~~ ca.mp~vvt-H1 ~ ~N HO~E k:ar.>-1~«> 
·~~~~ ln*-j~A-~ Jrt"'tt\Y\D @:r;a:. 
L__________________________________________________________________________________ --­

Sports
page 16 Thursday, October 19, 1989 
Men's soccer downs DePaul; women shutout Chicago 2-0 
• 
Trojan showdown just one of many big games for Irish 
LaVigne leads ·-._,... -~~.~::
¥.._" 
4

Irish in shutout . _:..:_·.: · /.~--::~ ~ 
BY KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's soccer team overcame the wind, the cold, and the DePaul Blue Demons Wednesday afternoon at Alumni Field with an :. &.;t · impressive 5-0 victory. 
The Irish dominated the entire contest, which was nowhere near as close as the score indi­cated. Notre Dame outshot DePaul 17-1 in the first half and 26-4 for the game as Danny Lyons and Peter Gulli each made two saves in record­ing the Irish's third shutout of the year. 
Although they controlled of the run of play from the outset, the Irish did not build a com­fortable lead on the Demons untfl late in the first half. Kevin Sax scored just 4:30 into the game for Notre Dame, but his team couldn't add to that lead despite numerous opportuni­ties, and coach Dennis Grace became frustrated. 
"I was not happy with the first 25 or 30 min­utes of play this afternoon," growls Grace, "We didn't have enough time to warm up today, it was a cold day, and we simply weren't ready to play." 
Late in the first half, the Irish struck twice in the span of one minute to take a commanding lead and plaeate their angry coaeh. At the 43:00 mark freshman Kevin Pendergast knocked a Demon defender to the ground just past mid-
see LAVIGNE I page 14 
NO baseball ready to battle USC 
Irish take on USC at Coveleski Stadium in Fall Classic 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez The Notre Dame women's soccer team extended its winning streak to 10 games, as it shutout the University of Chicago 2-0 at Moose Krause Stadium. The victory was N?tre Dame's sixth consecutive shutout 
By MIKE KAMRADT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team will host the USC Trojans in the second annual South Bend Tribune Fall Classic tonight and Friday night at Stanley Coveleski Stadium. 
Tonight's game will begin at 7 p.m. and Friday night's game will begin at 8:30 p.m. 
The Trojans will be as great, if not greater a test for the Irish than Miami was last year. USC has all eight of its position players returning and its three top pitchers as welL 
"They will be very strong," said Irish head coach Pat Murphy. "They may be the best team in the country, and if not that, definitely in the top 10." 
The Trojans are Jed offensively by sophomores Mike Hobertson (. 329 average last season) at first base and second baseman Brett Boone 

Welcome to the Big Game, the rivalry so good that someone saw lit to write a 400-page book about it (The Glamour Game, by Bill Cromartie and Jody Brown). 
The rivalry so good that anyone dumb enough to give them up could sell tickets for a cool hundred, end zone. For the fifty, you'd better stay in your armchair. You'll be warmer. 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame, every game has beeome the Big One, every team is out for blood, and every team they are playing this Saturday is among the best in the league. 
But this weekend's big, unmatchable, heart­stopping rivalry is no less important just because every other game has gotten bigger. It still transcends everything else, because this weekend, it's Notre Dame vs. USC. 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz has reminded his team about USC head coach Larry Smith's remarks after last years 27-10 Notre Dame victory. 
"He reminded us," said tri-captain Ned Bolcar. "If a coach wants to say his team outhit us, outplayed us and out hustled us, that's his business. At Notre Dame, we just prove him wrong." 
(.273, 9 IIRs). Senior Randy Powers, an-all-Pac-1 0 selection, leads the pitching staff. Last year he was 10-5 with a 3.75 ERA. 
The Irish of this year are a much different team than last year's, which won a school record 48 games and went to the NCAA Regional for the first time since 1970. 

Gone is All-American centerlielder Dan Peltier, as well as all-MCC shortstop Pat Pesavento, rightlielder James Sass, second baseman Mike Moshier, and starting pitchers Erik Madsen and Mike Passilla. This year's ballclub is characterized by youth as 24 of the 30 players are freshmen or sophomores. 
"We're a long way from where we want to be, " said Murphy. "When you've had the success we had last year, it's hard to be objective. We just try to downplay that and think 
Theresa Kelly 
Football Notebook 

The proving may not be that easy. The ninth­ranked Trojans stand 13th in the nation in rushing offense, 11th in total offense, 13th in scoring, 11th in total defense, 10th in scoring defense and, bad news for the Irish, first in rushing defense. 
"It's incredible what they do," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "We're going to have to throw the football, but I've got to be honest with you, throwing the football is not our strong suit." 
Holtz's worries continue, as he recalls the Irish ground game's performance in last season's 27-10 Notre Dame win in the Los Angeles Coliseum. 
"I don't think anyone can run against Southern Cal," Holtz said. "They're giving up one-point-six yards per run. I could even afford to buy that if I was in Manhattan. That's not very much yardage." 
about performance." 

Although the Irish are young, they are a talented bunch. Senior captain Ed Lund leads the Irish from his catching position. He hit .328 last year with four home runs and 48 RBI and is even better known for his defensive skills. Matt Krall has worked hard over the summer and fall to become Lund's backup. 
At first base, the Irish return Joe Binkiewicz. The sophomore hit .337 with four homers and 44 RBI last season. The Irish will look to these two to provide the power. 
At second base will be Cory Mee, a .327 hitter and outstanding fielder. Mike Coss will try and fill the big shoes of Pesavento as he moves over to shortstop from third base. 
"Mike Coss has made a good transition,"said Murphy. "He's 
see IRISH I page 13 
Holtz is concerned with the team's progress at tailback, in terms of depth, rather that talent. 
"We're still moving around of offense, moving this guy here and that guy there , trying to get get the right combinations. We came to the condusion a week ago that we just don't have definite answers." 
One of the changes saw nanker Raghib Ismail using his talents from the tailback spot against Air Force. 
"On the practice field, he knew he was getting the ball, he didn't even know who the blockers were," Holtz said of Ismail. "He found the hole anyway. We can't keep him in that spot. You'll see him there some, but not consistently. We just can't afford to do that." 
Irish tight end Frank Jacobs will be lost for the season after fracturing his left fibula and tearing ankle ligaments Saturday against Air Force. 
"The loss of Frank Jacobs is really a very discouraging thing," Holtz said. "he shared the time with Derek Brown, he gave Derek time to catch his breath, but we didn't lose anything with Frank Jacobs in there." 
:t:IJ; Irish record 1Oth :Iii.~== straight victory 
BY DAVID DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team (12-6) extended its remarkable winning streak to ten games last night in a hard-fought 2-0 victory over the University of Chicago Maroons at Moose Krause Stadium. 
In the last home game of the 1989 season, Notre Dame dominated. The first half saw the potent offense of the Irish frustrated by the spirited play of the Maroon defense, as Chicago goalkeeper Jennifer Ast saved every shot the Irish could take. 
However, 19:20 into the second half, the Irish were awarded a penalty kick in the Chicago penalty box, and senior co-captain K. T. Sullivan, who, with Joy Sisolak, played the last home game of her Notre Dame career, bested the Maroon goalie to put Notre Dame up 1-0. Sophomore Susie Zilvitis finished the scoring for the Irish at 39:04 of the second half, as she dribbled past two Maroon defenders and beat the Chicago goalkeeper for a 2-0 lead. 
The speedy Notre Dame offense, which took 30 shots in the contest, was backed up by the relentless defense, who allowed no shots. The win over Chicago was not only the record­setting tenth in a row for Notre Dame, but also the sixth consecutive shutout. In those six 
see SHUTOUT I page 14 



