0
IACCENT: ND grad student situation Ir~:.·:·~. t~o8~e~~~~~h~~~=f~:e~­
0 ::·:.:[
:============================================= ·o 
ing rain and sleet, Thursday.
L~!~!I!-~!~_!_:___ 11 ·:.~· _ chance of freezing rain, sleet
~~-~~----------------------~~U ··~~~~~Hi~ghs~in~the~30~s.~A4~0p~er~cen~t
or snow Thursday night. 

VOL. XXII, NO. 78 THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 1989 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
House members oppose pay increase, favor vote 
Associated Press a recorded vote. Wright's tally mendation submitted by 
was not made available Wed­former President Reagan and 
WASHINGTON--House nesday. supported by President Bush. 
members were lining up over­However, an Associated Senate Majority Leader 
whelmingly against a proposed Press informal survey of George Mitchell, D-Maine, has 
$45,000 pay raise on Wednesday nearly a third of the 435 House promised a vote in his chamber 
and indicating in an Associated members showed about 88 per­this week. Surveys show the 
Press survey that they want a cent of those responding pay raise would be handily 
vote on the sensitive issue. wanted a vote on the pay raise. rejected there. 
Survey results put additional Meanwhile, a survey of the House Democratic leaders, 
pressure on House Speaker Jim entire House released Wednes­with Republican consent, had 
Wright, D-Texas, to abandon a day by opponents of the pay adopted a strategy of avoiding 
carefully orchestrated strat­raise showed 62 percent saying a vote until after the deadline 
egy of taking no vote until after they would vote "no" if the and then softening the political 
the raise automatically takes issue came to a vote. blow of the substantial pay 
effect next Wednesday. Under the law, members of raise by passing new ethics 
Wright said Tuesday he Congress ahd other top federal rules including a ban on law­
would hold a vote if that was officials will get pay raises of makers accepting speaking 
what lawmakers wanted. The about 50 percent on Feb. 8 un­fees, 
speaker annoum:ed he was cir­less both chambers reject it. The strategy was based on 
culating a questionnaire Rank-and-file congressional the opinion that House mem­
privately to determine whether salaries would go from $89,500 
House members really wanted to $135,000, under the recom-see RAISE, page 4 
Cold front assaults Lower 48 with record-breaking temperatures 
Associated Press meteorologist at the National As the cold pushed into the Weather Service in Ann Arbor, country Wednesday, tempera­The Alaska-born blast of cold Mich. tures fell18 degrees in one hour 
air that struck like a hammer · Midwesterners who chuckled at Ardmore, Okla., the Na­A pedestrian in downtown Columbus, ~e. braves the cold as he walks 
blow to the balmy lower 48 at the weather in Alaska over tional Weather Service said. 
along a sidewalk, with a bank sign flashing the morning temperature,
states pushed southward and the weekend while polishing Russell, Kan., which shared 
-14 degrees C. Wednesday's brisk temperatures followed Tuesday's
eastward Wednesday, stretch­their golf clubs got their com­the nation's high of 84 degrees 
record-breaking highs across Nebraska. Story, left.
ing the big chill from the euppance as winter set in with Tuesday afternoon, had read­
Pacific to Oklahoma to the a vengeance. Folks in the nor­ings in the lower teens a day 
Great Lakes. mally rainy Pacific Northwest later and wind chills in the 30­
Ignorant jury can
coped with a rare snowfall, and below-zero range. "February is going to be Easterners counted the waning Not counting Alaska, Cut 

quite different from January," hours of springlike weather as said Bob Snider, a the cold front moved their way. see COLD, page 4 
Gift of Gipp's sweater to Reagan draws criticism from original donor 
By ASHOK RODRIGUES ident and the University by the action. Malloy noted, Staff Reporter called for a unique gift." though, that "the vast James Murphy, associate majority of people with 
Notre· Dame's gift of vice president of University whom I have spoken or George Gipp's letter Relations, added that the heard from supported the sweater to former President decision to present Reagan idea." Ronald Reagan has become with the sweater was ap­"There wasn't anyone a source of controversy. proved by both the Univer­around here who voiced any 
John Cackley, a 1937 sity Administration and Ath­second thoughts," said John graduate of the University letic Department. He said Heisler, sports information and executive director that this was a special cir­director. emeritus of the Notre Dame cumstance and that he Alumni Association, couldn't recall the Univer­At the moment, the originally donated the sity g1vmg away such sweater is in Reagan's pos­sweater to the University. "I memorabilia before. session, and is being certainly didn't assume it According to Cackley, his prepared for display at the would be given to Ronald objections have received na­presidential library sched­Reagan or anybody else," tional attention, with his uled to open in 1991, accor­wrote Cackley in a column column reprinted in papers ding to Mark Weinberg, in the South Bend Tribune. such as USA Today and the public relations director for 
"The sweater was not in­New York Times. Cackley Reagan. tended to be a give-away adds that in the numerous regardless of who might like responses he received, Reagan received an to have it," Cackley wrote. everyone agreed the gift was honorary doctorate from the 
According to Richard Con­a bad idea. University in 1981 and has klin, assistant vice president In a letter to Cackley, Uni­also been presented with a of University Relations, versity President Father monogrammed sportscoat. "The feeling was that the re­Edward Malloy said he was Associated Press contrib­lationship between the pres-sorry Cackley was offended uted to this story. 


be fair to North 
Associated Press But some disagree. "I 
wouldn't want people who lived 
in Washington, the seat of gov­
WASHINGTON--The court is ernment, on that jury who were looking for jurors who have so uninformed,'~ said Bill Mof­barely heard of Oliver North to fitt, a well-known criminal serve in his upcoming trial. defense lawyer. 
A jury of North's peers--the "Are they going to be inter­term means a cross-section of ested in what goes on inside the his fellow citizens, not neces­courtroom if they were so uni­sarily his equals--can be found nterested for so long on what and can render justice, many went on outside it?" legal experts say, even with the Moffitt said justice would be exclusion of those who saw better served if six of the jurors North confessing on television could be drawn from the uni­that he deceived lawmakers nformed and six from those about selling arms to Iran. who followed the evolution of 
"Jurors are asked to bring a the Iran-Contra affair. certain common sense into the U.S. District Judge Gerhard jury room and try to determine Gesell said as the trial began whether a particular story that he wanted jurors "ig­makes sense and look wit­norant" of North's activities. nesses in the eye to tell who is To compel North to testify telling the truth," said Philip before Congress, he was Lacovara, a former prosecutor , granted immunity. Now what in another notorious case, he said cannot be used as Watergate. "It is not necessary evidence to convict him. He is for people to be highly educated charged with obstructing or current in world affairs to presidential and congressional make that assessment." inquiries, lying to Congress and 
Many other legal experts shredding evidence. agreed. "It's a burden to find For six days in the summer qualified jurors, but I'm not of 1987, the Marine officer, saying it can't be done," says alone, beribboned and with Wayne LaFave of the Univer­sity of Illinois law faculty. see JURY, page 4 
IN BRIEF 

George Craig, Clark professor of biological sciences, has received the National Institutes of health Merit Award in recognition of superior competence and outstanding pro­ductivity during his research career. Craig specializes in studies about mosquitoes, and in 1987 was elected president of the American Mosquito Control Association. Craig has been at Notre Dame since 1957. -The Observer 
OF INTEREST 

Residence hall contracts for next year are due in the Office of Student Residences by 5 p.m. today. Contracts must be returned in order to be eligible for housing next year. -The Observer 
Snow removal guidelines are in effect until March 
15. All student vehicles are to be removed from fac­ulty!Staff parking lots by midnight each night. A $25 towing charge will be assessed for moving any cars into student lots. Vehicles will also be towed from all roadways, sidewalks, loading zones, and traffic circles. -The Obser­ver 
Talent show acts needed for the Black Annual Arts Talent Show. Call Tracy at 283-3879 or Agnes at 283-4011 if interested. The talent show will be held Feb. 11, Res­burgh Library Auditorium. -The Observer 
Fiesta Bowl ticket refunds that were requested prior to Christmas break may be picked up in person on the second floor at the ticket office of the Joyce ACC. Each student must present hisber own I.D. Hours are 8 a.m. to noon and 1 to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. -The Obser­ver 
The Tom Dooley Award winner, Brother Robert Lombardo, will be at the Center for Social Concerns at 
4: 30 to speak with students about his work with the home­less at the the Padre Pio Shelter in the South Bronx and education programs with the N.Y. State University sys­tem. -The Observer · 
New Sunday library hours begin this weekend with the library opening at 10 a.m. every Sunday morning. -The Observer 
The annual Alumni-Student reception will be from 4:45 to 6:30p.m. in the North Dining Hall Gold Room. Members of the Alumni Board will be present to meet with students on an individual basis to discuss prospective careers. All students are invited. -The Observer 
Freshmen or sophomores interested in being a Bookstore Basketball assistant commissioner can pick up an application at the student government secretary's of­fice, second floor, LaFortune Student Center. Applications are due by Feb. 7. Call Mike Manning at 283-3305 for more information. -The Observer 
Northern Ireland seminar has an opening for one female student participant. This one credit course involves four meetings and an eight day trip to Northern Ireland over spring break. If you are interested call 239-7862 or 239-6444. -The Observer 
Friday Forum at the CSC begins its spring series on the Year of Cultural Diversity tomorrow at 12:15 p.m. with American Studies Professor Ronald Dorris speaking on "Bigotry and Honesty in the American Experience." 
~The Observer 

The Feast of the Presentation of the Lord will be celebrated today with a special liturgy at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. On this feast day, which normally concludes the Christmas season, it is the custom to bless candles for use in church and home. -The Observer 
---Ih--e-Obse.---~~r-­
---·­
-~-=·~.­
Design Editor----·-·---·----·-· Chris Labaree Design Assistant---·---------· Beth Peterson Typesetters . . . . . . Bernard Brenninkmeyer .......................................... Jim Mercurio News Editor....................... Sara Marley Copy Editor-·---------------· Christine Walsh Sports Copy Editor......... Molly Mahoney Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Kim Skiles Viewpoint Layout.. . . . Moira Fox Accent Editor ............. Trisha Chambers Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Accent Designer................. Alison Cocks Typists............................ Diane Bradley ............................................. Will Zamer ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey SMC Day Editor.. . . ..... Maura Reidy Photographer...... __ . _ ....... _. Erin Cusack Ads Designers .................. Meg Callahan ............................................ Molly Kilian .......................................... Jeff Stelmach 

ne Olleener (USPS 599 2..QIO) is published Monday throush Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. neOlleenrer is published by the: students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year <S2' per semester) by writins ne Olleener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndialla ~556. 
ne Olleener is a member of ne Mlodated ...,__ All reproduction rishts are reserved. 
----------~---------­

The Observer Thursday , February 2, 1989 INSIDE COLUMN 


Good things come to those who 'throat' 
A few days ago I was heading out of the dorm to the library and one of my hallmates had the audacity to call me a "throat." I guess this was to be expected since we were having an SYR that night, but I was particularly disturbed by the fact that the hallmate who called me a throat was our rector. 
Throats are the only members of the Notre Dame population against whom it is completely acceptable to deride, ridicule and discriminate against. This is an outrageous miscarriage of justice. In fact, it's high time that one of us came out of the closet and proclaimed the true glory and preeminence of "THROATDOM." 
Let us begin by dispelling some of the heinous myths that are regularly circulated about throats. These myths are generated by a small, but influential portion of the campus that is vehemently anti-throat. These· people are not our friends. If you wanted a true version of what the people from Iraq are like, you wouldn't ask only Iranians. 
Myth # 1--"Throats are backstabbing S.O.B who frequently sabotage science experiments, steal notebooks and brown-nose their profes­sors." 
This may be true, but we have a legitimate excuse. When a youth from the inner-city com­mits a crime, the judge often rightfully takes into consideration the juvenile's background when he delivers the sentence. Well, the same consideration should be given to throats. Many of us have led lives riddled with lonely, rainy afternoons and the cold ostracism of our peers. Sure, sometimes we panic and do things we're not proud of. This is not the fault of the poor throat, but rather a function of society's relent­less mistreatment and supression. The latter is the cause of throat crimes and not the effect. 
Myth # 2--"Throats are shallow and have no personality.'' 
There is probably no more erroneous senti­ment alive on the Notre Dame campus today. The problem is that no one takes the time to get to know a throat. A throat can be a very interesting, sensitive individual. So the next time you see one of us up on the 13th floor of the library listening to class notes on a walkman or working a few weeks ahead in embryology, stop and talk to us: tell us what special people we really are. 
Those of you who are still reading are prob­ably saying: "Yes, I see that the throat has been slandered and maligned by modern civilization, but why should I want to become a throat?" I can offer two enticing reasons why one should pursue the flowered path to throat­dam. 
First, the actual throating act delivers a state of self-awareness and oneness that can only be compared to the nirvana plateau reached in transcendental meditation. Furthermore, throating requires no prior experience, just de­termination. Even a business major can try it. 
• 

Greg Lucas Copy Editor 

Just imagine yourself, secluded away on the uppermost floor of the library. As you work your first calc IV problem, your mind focuses in on itself, leaving all the pain and rejection that is your life far behind. Your ears revel in the total absence of sound, save the gentle, reas­suring hum of the flourescent lights overhead. The hours of indescribable happiness pass like seconds and before you know it, the evil library warning bell is ringing and it's time to leave. But you are comforted by the fact that you will be back tomorrow night. 
The second reason why one should turn to throatdom is related to the relative monetary success of throats in the business world. 
This is a potent source of trepidation for the small group that I mentioned earlier who spread anti-throat propaganda. These people are the evolutionary losers. They know that un­less they poison the minds of all of those good students who would be throats had they not been brainwashed by a negative images, they would end up at the bottom of the natural selection totem pole. 
They are desperate people. I can speak freely of them at this point, because they have un­doubtedly not read this far. The fact that you have read this far shows that you are one of the brainwashed, good people who can be saved if you turn to throatdom. 
A recent study conducted by researchers at 
U. of C., Berkley indicated that the number of hours studied in college is inversely propor­tiorfal to number of friends, but directly propor­tional to income later in life. 
The decision is yours, but remember: you can always buy friends, but you can't buy suc­cess. 
Comedians , 
~LffiE\!Jl] ~~rn.mm 
I 



ffim[[) 
•


Gltffil]ill ill~ill)J 
Beginning at 9:00 pm -doors open at 8:45. Get there early to assure good seating.
• 

[Q)[i~Ui1~ ~~~@~ ~ Buy one drink, get the second drink (of equal or lesser value) FREE. at lr®@l5l~ [}=fl~cQ]®®WtiDW~ 
(Must have this ad with you) 
•...................................................................................~ "' 

Thursday , February 2, 1989 

President may hire Democrat as aide 
Associated Press 
sional support for the 
Nicaraguan Contras in 1986, WASHINGTON-­the last year Congress ap­Administration officials said proved military aid for the Wednesday they expect Presi­rebels. dent Bush to name a hawkish Democrat as his top State De" Aronson from 1977 to 1981 partment aide for Latin was a vice presidential America in a bid for a bipar­speechwriter and deputy assis­tisan approach toward Central tant to President Carter, and American policy. currently is on a Council on 
Foreign Relations study group 
The selection of Bernard on Central America. The offi­Aronson, a one-time assistant cials who confirmed his ap­to former Vice President Wal­pointment spoke on condition of ter Mondale, came as a anonymity. surprise because his name had not been on any of the long lists The assistant secretary'scirculating here on prospective post has been at the center of successors to former Assistant controversy for years because Secretary of State Elliott of the deep divisions between Abrams. the administration and the 
Aronson, 42, is best known for Congress over what the U.S. Military personnel survey the tail section of the Base in Abilene, Texas, Tuesday afternoon. Story, the help he gave to President role in Central America should KC135A that crashed, killing military members and below. Reagan in building congres-be. their dependents, after takeoff from Dyess Air Force 



r.-------------------,
:FREE scHo':.~':r~:::':::~ron • Crash investigation hampered by 
•MONEY FOR COLLEGE apparent loss of maintenance records 
I 

Associated Press crashed on takeoff about a half­F-16s in the air before flying to
I Every Student Is Eligible for Some Type of Financial 
mile south of a Dyess Air Force Hawaii and then Guam. 
I Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. Base runway Tuesday. 
ABILENE, Texas--Air Force 

We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fel­
I . personnel used numbered flags The KC-135A tanker, based at The plane was was carrying
lowships, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion in private 
Wednesday to map a K.l. Sawyer Air Force Base in military members and their
I sector funding.

I . Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic wreckage-strewn area where a Michigan, stopped at Dyess en dependents, as well as 30,000 interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. fuel-laden tanker crashed, but route to a training mission. It gallons of jet fuel, officials
I . There's money available for students who have been newspaper the investigation may be ham­was scheduled to refuel some said. carriers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ... etc. 
pered by the lack of a flight
I 
• Results GUARANTEED. 
data recorder and the apparent 
I 
loss of many maintenance

lr-__C_A_L_L____~F~o-r~A~F~r-e-e~B-ro-c~h-u-re----tl1l~ 
records. I ANYTIME (800) 346-6401 fi__j All 19 people aboard the KC­
135A stratotanker died when it 


~-------------------~ Indiana National~ ~ 
U~IJWA., ~er-ieS 
$5.00 Discount
NOTRE DAME 
on a pair of tickets for Saturday Matinee,

Faculty, Staff & Students 
Sunday Matinee, & Sunday Evening 




DODY GOODMAN 
in ~~ f1 

";~~ila\..&
~~l. 

,,t:R~ r· 
PLEASE CIRCLE PERFORMANCE AND PRICE 
PERFORMANCE PRICE RANGE PER TICKET Sunday at 7:00 pm Main Floor, 1st Terrace, 2nd Terrace & Boxes, 
3rd Boxes  .  . . $20.50  
3rd Terrace  . .  . . $17.50  
1--­ - 
Saturday or Sunday  Main Floor, 1st Terrace,  
Matinee at 2:00 pm  2nd Terrace & Boxes,  
3rd Boxes  . .  . ...  $17.50  
3rd Terrace  . .  . . $14.50  

Note: All Prices Already Reflect Discount 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________________ 
CityiStateiZip ---------------------­
Phone: Home Business _________ Check enclosed __ VISA __ MasterCard __ Account No. ______________ Exp. Date __ 
Total# Tickets ____ x $ ___~ = $ ____ 
PRICE 

Mall to: Indiana National BROADWAY Series 105 North Pennsylvania, Indianapolis, IN 46204 
For information call: Sheila Sharp (317) 636·2779 
'\~/  ~  y  .  
~  
 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND  from$149*  
STEAMBOAT  frosn$213*  
DAYTONA BEACH  from$118*  
MUSTANG ISLAND  from$136*  
HILTON HEAD ISLAND  troms10T  

DON'T WAIT 'TIL U'S TOO LATE! 
CALL TOLL FREE TODAY 


1-800-321-5911 


The Observer I Erin Cusack

Marketing for the insane 
Sophomore Mike Wieber tries to sell aT-shirt for Irish Insanity, bearing the "Battle for Seattle" logo, to junior Tom Crehan at South Dining Hall, Wednesday. 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

Raise 
continued from page 1 
hers supported the raise but would find it politically impossible to vote for it. 
Wright, who had been taking most of the political heat on the issue, changed that strategy on Tuesday. His survey was de­signed, in part, to demonstrate that it was not Jim Wright alone who favored the pay increase. 
"Over the past several weeks, I have heard from many 



~~~.rl page , 
single-minded intensity, tes­tified about acts he said were motivated by love of country. 
He became a household name. Former President Reagan declared him a na­tional hero even though he had to discharge him as an aide. Songs were written about him, his face graced T -shirts and "Olliemania" swept the country. Conservatives vied for his endorsement in last members on both sides of the aisle. I have a pretty good idea of how they feel," Wright said. "They support 'regular procedure"'--which would mean committee hearings and a legislative schedule that would make a vote impossible before the Feb. 8 deadline. 

But when asked if he would permit a vote should members surprise him and demand one, Wright said, "If the members want it, yes, of course." 
The Associated Press con­tacted 143 congressional offices 
Cold 
continued from page 1 
Bank, Mont., was the nation's icebox at midday Wednesday, with a reading of 31 below zero, and temperatures in the state were forecast to dip below 40 below by Thursday morning. Electric power in Great Falls, a city of 57,000, and several smaller towns in north-central Montana was knocked out for nearly an hour Wednesday morning when the Black Eagle hydroelectric dam broke down. 

"We don't know what caused it," said Cort Freeman, Mon­tana Power Co. spokesman. "There's a lot of things that can happen in weather like this." 
In Alaska, where it all began as the thermometer went as low as 60 below over the weekend, temperatures moderated Wednesday over much of the state except for the area near the Canadian border. While Anchorage was report­ing just 11 degrees below zero and no wind, Northway on the Alaska Highway near the Yukon had a 7 a.m. reading of 59 below. 
fall's campaigns. North com­manded $20,000 fees for delivering speeches. 
His critics in Congress and elsewhere characterized him as a loose cannon. The House­Senate Iran-Contra commit­tees said he was so obsessed with secrecy that he lied to Congress, the American people, the attorney general, the State Department, the CIA and the National Security Council. 
One of the first people to qualify as a potential juror in North's trial, which opened Tuesday, told the judge that and found 92 members publicly supporting a recorded vote on the pay raise. Only six said they were against it and seven were undecided. There was no response from 38 offices. 
It should be noted that adv­ocates of the pay raise have been reluctant to publicly indi­cate their support, for fear of the political fallout. 
Mark Johnson, Wright's spokesman, said it would be wrong to use any informal sur­veys to predict the results of the speaker's private survey. 
Snowfall of up to 9 inches was reported in the northern Rockies and Pacific Northwest. A blizzard warning was issued for parts of Idaho, and winter storm warnings were issued farther east. 
The snowfall at Seattle was enough to shut all runways at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport for nearly an hour Wed­nesday morning. The snowfall at the airport, 2 inches and counting at midmorning, plus temperatures in the teens made it the worst wintry wea­ther in Seattle in more than three years. 
whenever the Iran-Contra hearings came on "I turned the television off; it was boring." 
That may be troubling, but a jury need not be composed of well-informed people to be fair, the legal experts said. Gesell himself recalled how many jurors lived through the Water­gate scandal in ignorance of it. 
"Of course it bothers me" that the well-informed jurors almost automatically must be eliminated, said Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz, "but one always operates within the constraints." 

Noww\ can ~elp historymajors




w1th therreconollllcs. 

Whatever field ofstudy you're in, aMacintosh® computer can help make the studying easier. And now Apple makes the payments easier, too, with the Student Loan-to-Own Program. Ifyour parents qualify, you won't have to worry about the economics-you can attend to fun things, like term papers and exams. Stop by and pick up an application! today 
I_
.® 
Apple's Student Loan-to-Own Program 


Notre Dame Computer Store Computer Center/Math Building 
© 1988 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Madntosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. 
Thursday , February 2, 1989 The Observer pageS 

Teen evicted from parents' home due to minimum age requirement 
Associated Press 
ZEPHYRHILLS, Fla.-­Fourteen-year-old Staci Elmer left for school Wednesday "tired, angry and sad" because she was kicked out of her par­ents' home in a court battle over a rule barring children from her small subdivision. 
''There are no rights for the younger generation. There are 

~ 


~~Comedy 


Thursday, 9:00pm in Theodore's This Week: 
Steve Seagren 
Get ready to enter the comedy zone. 
no laws for young people. The Constitution isn't for us," Staci said bitterly over a bowl of cereal at her brother's house. "I'm angry at my neighbors and sad because I can't stay with my parents." 
She said it was hard making the adjustment to her tempo­rary new home, about six miles from the two-block-long mobile home park she was evicted from the day before because deed restrictions bar children under 15. 

"It was scary waking up this morning. I didn't know where I was at first," Staci said. 
On Tuesday, Pasco Circuit Judge Wayne Cobb rejected Beverly and Thomas Elmer's request to delay a Jan. 6 order. He said if Staci wasn't out of the house by 5 p.m. the couple would go to jail for 10 days. 
The judge said Staci, a quiet A-B freshman at Zephyrhills High School, may come home for visits, even for overnight, but may not move home per­manently until she turns 15 on April 7. She says she will move home then. 
"We have nothing against the girl; it's the principle," said Aline Murray. She is one of the neighbors who sued to preserve the adults-only status of the tiny mobile home settlement . 
The Observer I Erin Cusack

Little Creatures 
Saint Mary's sophomore Krissy Westhobb gazes into her microscope during her microbiology lab, Wednesday. Now that Old Man Winter has returned, it won't be quite so hard to stay inside and hit the books. 
liEf/f/11'LL/1 
Don't forget to wish Karin Grace a Happy 19th! 

--------~~ ------~----~-------------------------------------..-------------.. 




Arrest of youngsters indicate losing crack battle in war against drugs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Two recent crack-related arrests, an 11­year-old alledged to be a drug courier and a 10-year-old crack dealer, left officials wondering if they're losing the drug fight. 
"Crack and drugs are so per­vasive that of course it trickles down into the lower grades," said Paul Berczeller, a spokes­man for the United Federation of Teachers. "You have young kids used every day as drug runners." 
Ginay Marks, a Brooklyn school board activist for 17 years, agreed: "I would say in terms of crack--and we thought heroin was an epidemic-­nothing has spread with such rapidity among our school children." 
The two grade-schoolers ar­rested in separate incidents less than three weeks apart of­fered examples of both street and school incidents, aut­horities said. 
The 10-year-old was arrested Jan. 15 after police watched him and a 14-year-old partner make a half-dozen crack sales in Wyandanch, Long Island. The 5-foot-tall boy had three $20 vials of crack and $226 cash on him when arrested. 

A family Court judge ruled Wednesday that he had com­mitted the crimes and sched­uled sentencing for Feb. 10. The boy faces up to 18 months' detention in a youth facility or two years' probation. Char~es against the 14-year-old were pending. 
On Tuesday, an 11-year-old boy arrived at his Bronx elementary school carrying wflat looked like his lunch bag. Inside, school officials found 411 vials of crack, most in 10­packs worth $50 apiece. 
The special education stu­dent told police his 17-year-old brother had given him the drugs. A search was on Wed­nesday for the brother, said police spokesman Officer Hugh Barry. 
The 11-year-old faced a Fam­ily Court hearing late Wednes­day afernoon. 
"When an 11-year-old child with special learning needs is exploited as a drug carrier, it reaffirms my belief that drugs are the most serious problem our youth must confront," said Schools Chancellor Richard Green. 
Career Opportunities with ECOLAB 
Interested in career opportunities with a fast growing premium service company? Ecolab is the leading worldwide developer and marketer of premium institutional and residential services. Our worldwide institutional business includes cleaning products and services for the hospitality and food processing markets. Residential services are provided by our ChemLawn subsidiary. Ecolab is a $1.2 billion company positioned for rapid growth and is the market leader in each of its key businesses. 
On February 8 and 9, representatives from Ecolab will be on campus to discuss career opportunities for MBA Candidates in Treasury, Corporate Development, Financial Analysis, Audit and Management Reporting. We will be hosting a reception on Wednesday, February 8 from 7-9 pm in the Alumni Room. Interviews will take place the following day. 
Additional information is available in the placement office or contact our campus recruiting coordinator, JoAnn Butwinick (612 I 293-2812) 
Local School Board Presi­dent Lawrence Warden, whose Bronx district includes the school that the 11-year-old at­tended, said he was "shocked and angry" after the arrest. 
"We don't expect that from an 11-year-old youngster. It's like carrying a loaded machine gun in a playground," said Warden. 
Board of Education spokes­man Robert Terte, saying much of the problem is on the streets around the schools, noted that the number of drug arrests on school property was down in the past year. In 1987, the figure was 114; for 1988, it was 94. 



EPA proposes ban on apple chemical 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The govern­ment proposed a ban Wednes­day on a chemical that makes apples appear more appealing and last longer, citing "an in­escapable and direct" link to cancer. 
While the Environmental Protection Agency said the cancer risk, an estimated five deaths for every 100,000 people exposed, is not high enough to warrant an emergency action to remove the chemical from the market, it urged its manu­facturer to withdraw the chemical until a final regula­tion banning the chemical can be issued. 
Officials said formal agency action ordering the chemical withdrawn will not likely come for another 18 months and then is likely to be challenged, a process that could take another one year to three years. 
The object of the EPA's con­cern is a growth control chemi­cal called daminozide, which is sold by the trade-name Alar. The chemical is absorbed by the fruit and has been used by apple growers since the early 1970s to spur even growth, reduce spoilage and help preserve apples so they can be sold all year. 
Alar's manufacturter, Uni­royal Chemcial Co. of Mid­dlebury, Conn., immediately challenged the EPA findings and promised to contest any government ban. The company said it would not withdraw its product voluntarily. 
"We don't see any basis for taking (Alar) off the market," Uniroyal spokesman Yanis Bibelnieks said. "All of the studies that have been done since 1985 have supported our position that Alar poses no signficiant health risk." 
He said it was "inap­propriate to make any judg­ment based on interim results" cited by the EPA. 
Bibelnieks said Alar produc­tion has been reduced by about 75 percent since 1985 . 

DAlE­lood Luck witll tile 

Raanan laviaw 
''Break a Leg'' 
L.f'Vfl Mom &Dad 

"Sexuality, Intimacy & Spirituality"  
directed by Patricia Livingston  
TOPICS:  
Intimacy  Homosexuality  Sexuality: Primary  
Relationships  Heterosexuality  Genital  
Masturbation  Loneliness  Affective  
• How do 1 relate to God in the context of the gilt ol my sexuality?  
• How does intimacy in my life reveal God to me?  
• How do the yearnings of my life tell me about God's love for me?  
• How can 1 come to understand my sexuality more broadly and deeply?  
• How does understanding my sexuality free me to choose what is most  
life giving at this time in my life?  
WHEN:  February 24 (6:30) · February 26 (noon)  
CONTACT:  Campus Ministry Office  
(Badin Hall) 239-5242  
SIGN-UP:  February 6-17, 1989  
COST:  $12.00  

OfFICE Cf (?Jv\PUS MNI5TRY
• 

Viewpoint
Thursday , February 2, 1989 
page 7 

A better life for ND grad students 
We all know that Notre Dame is and consideration they give to graduate seeking prominence at the graduate student housing needs to improve; level. This is one of the main priorities graduate students need to make the of -Fr. Malloy's administration. University aware of this problem. 
The University has recently made a 

Victor J. Krebs positive step by committing funds from 
its "Strategic Moment" fund-raising

Graduate Student Union
-
campaign specifically towards the con­Graduate students have an important 
struction of new graduate housing. But task in this project. They have the re­it is important that graduate students 
sponsibility of making the University offer their input in such planning. In community aware of their needs. As I the past neglect of graduate student 
have argued previously (Viewpoint opinions has been the cause of signifi­Oct. 27), any improvement will neces­cant mistakes in planning. (For exam­sitate a change of attitude by the Uni­ple, the townhouses in O'Hara-Grace-­
versity towards its graduate student which house a great part of the single 
population. But here again graduate graduate women on campus--with 4 
students are responsible for sharpening bedroom arrangements have proven 
and improving the perception that the highly inconvenient. Graduate student 
community has of graduate students input could have prevented such mis­
and graduate student life at Notre takes.) Questions such as the site of the 
Dame. Moreover, it is up to graduate new housing, the type of housing to be 
students to call the University's atten­constructed, the possibility of making 
tion to the concrete areas of graduate the housing coeducational, etc., are 
student life that need to be improved if questions where graduate student input 
the University is to move into the ranks is indispensable. 
of prominence it seeks at the graduate The Task Force on Residentiality rec­
ommended last year that a committeelevel. 

In the area of graduate student be formed to investigate the role of 
housing, for instance, the existing graduate students in the residential life 
graduate on-campus housing is in need of the community. Up to the present 
o( repair and maintenance. Some do moment, however, this recommenda­
not even comply with fire-safety regu­tion has not been implemented. 
lations; Brownson Hall, for example, Graduate students need to show a wil­
has only recently acquired a sprinkler lingness to play an active role in com­
system, and it still lacks a smoke­mittees such as those or, at least, an 
detector system. Rectors in graduate interest in expressing their opinions to 
dorms do an admirable job of keeping aid in planning. 
dorms up to good standards, but it is Another sore area in graduate edu­
no secret that their dorms have always cation at Notre Dame concerns 
been among the lowest budgetary stipends. Stipends in the humanities at priorities. If the University is truly Notre Dame lag behind those of peer 
committed to the improvement of institutions by as much as 30% accor­graduate student life, then the attention ding to the 1988 GSU report to the Board 
Doonesbury 

FOR IN5TANC8, TH& 81UION5 IN 
lOOK IV Me. AFTeR 30 YtARS ''IU3T''PROf)()CT/VITY! HOW l?O 
OF SMO!<JNG, I HAV&N'T OAD,YOU tf/13/<.NOIAJ 77-IATALL 77-18 5!r10K­
MISSW A SINGle /JAY HAOA &R5 aJHO (j(Jf SICK tf/OUWN'T 
OF /AJORK OWING 70 HEART HAVe r30TWN S/0< ANY/AJAY? 
5MOI</NG-R&I.ATW ATTACK! '\ IUN/355! '-......_ I 
r 

_·Ih-e-Obse-~~er-­
---. ----&.-=-Y~ ---­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer IS the tndependent newspaper published by the students of the Untvers•ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Satnt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the polictes of the admmostratton of eother tnstttutlon. The news IS reported as accurately and obJeCtively as posstble Unstgned ed•tonals represent the opinion of the maJority of the Ed•tonal Board Commentanes. letters and the lnstde Column present the views of thetr authors. Column space IS avatlable to all members of the community and the free express1on of varying 
Editorial Board  
Editor-m-Ch1el  Chris Murphy  
Managmg Editor ..  Chns Donnelly  
News Editor  . Regis Coccia  
News Editor  Mark Mclaughlin  
Viewpomt Ed•tor  ....... Dave Bruner  
Sports Ed1tor  . Marty Strasen  
Accent Editor  Beth Healy  
Saint Mary·s Ed1tor  Sandy Cerimele  
Photo Editor  Mtchael Moran  

of Trustees. If Notre Dame wants to be a prominent graduate institution, then it must have a plan to increase its graduate stipends to competitive levels. Continuing the annual increase at the rate it has been increasing per year (approx. 8% this last year), barely keeping up with tuition increases, is not enough if we want to catch up with our peer institutions. Graduate students need to keep impressing the gravity of this situtaion on the University ad­ministation. 
Summer support is another problem that graduate students (particularly in the humanities) need to bring to the University's attention. In many depart­ments students are supposed to support themselves during the summer while they prepare to take their composition exams. This obviously creates great duress, and it is the cause of many good candidates abandoning the programs to go to other institutions. Graduate stu­dents need to ask whether the Univer­sity has any plan to solve this problem. 
In another area, one of the most bitter exeriences in the past few years for Notre Dame graduate students has been the suspension of the Graduate Club's ability to dispense liquor. As a consequence of this, the Grad Club now operates as a food establishment and coffee house. The only alternative place for graduate students to socialize freely is the AlumniSenior Club. But the A,lumniSenior Club is primarily aimed at the undergraduate population. In a University that claims to become a top graduate school, it is an unacceptable inconsistency . that there be no social space for its graduate students. Given the fact that the University is not in the position to request another liquor license, the problem still remains that no provision is made for its graduate students in terms of an establishment comparable to the University Club (for faculty members) or the AlumniSenior Club (for undergraduates). Perhaps an 
extension to the AlumniSenior Club would be a solution, providing an area where graduate students could so­cialize in an environment more con­ducive to conversation and relaxed socializing. Or perhaps a special location in the new residential area for graduate students could provide this ... But in any case the acuteness of the problem will not be perceived until graduate students take an active part in informing the community about their concerns and needs in this regard. 
Garry Trudeau 
These ·are some of the most obvious 
areas where the University needs to 
show its commitment to graduate edu­
cation by implementing some improve­
ments. But other questions such as 
what University student services need 
to be improved, what deficiencies at 
the departmental level need to be ad­
dressed to improve the different 
graduate programs, etc., all will have 
different answers depending on the 
area of the graduate student population 
that is concerned. The diversity in the 
graduate student community is such 
that an accurate total picture can be 
given only from a joint effort on the 
part of the whole graduate student 
body. Graduate students are the only 
ones -that know these problems first 
hand, so they need to speak up if .they 
want changes to come about. 
It is clear then that a dialogue must 
begin between graduate students and 
all sectors of the University for Notre 
Dame to start the path towards becom­
ing a prominent graduate institution. 
Aware of the importance of this de­
velopment, the Graduate Student Union 
has organized its "Graduate Student 
Life" program--a series of workshops 
with University administrators to 
promote dialogue between the graduate 
student population and the university 
Administration. (The first workshop of the series will be held on Monday Feb. 6at Theodore's. Father Edward A. Mal­loy, C.S.C., President of the University is the guest speaker.) 
There is already a positive change in the general attitude of administrators and the various other sectors of the Uni­versity towards graduate students. If nothing else there is an openness and a receptivity to graduate student con­cerns that was not there before. Graduate problems are being consid­ered seriously and little by little the cloud of misunderstanding that was of­ten the main obstacle towards change is being lifted. What is developing is a community more informed about their graduate student constituency as well as a growing awareness of the need for changes. Graduate students can con­tribute greatly merely by taking advan­tage of opportunities like these to offer some feedback as well as first hand in­formation about the changes they per­ceive to be necessary. 
Victor J. Krebs is president of the Graduate Student Union and is a regu­lar Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the Day 
"The greater the pressure, the more I like it." 
Nolan Ryan 

Otserations Board 
Business Manager John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager Molly Killen Advertising Manager Lmda Goldschmidt Production Manager . . Bernadette Shilts Systems Manager . . Mark Ridgeway Controller Todd Hardiman Graph1c Arts Manager. Marga Bruns 
optntons on campus. through ietters. IS encouraged. 

-Founded November 3,1966 
I\



-. 
Mon. Thurs. 
r·····················-, r·····-------·-···-···-,
MONDAY MADNESS! 
: THICK THURSDAY! Get One Small 
: Get One Medium Pan Pizza Cheese and Pepperoni Pizza 1 loaded with eXtra cheese, Offer valid only FOR ONLy : pepperoni, and thick crust 
on Moday. It's a pizza lover's dream come true. Every Oneofferper sa 99 day this week, you can get a special offer : '!e~~~~!t~~~y II FOR ONLy
order. Customer ~~ from Domino's Pizza.· Whether it's free extra I One offer per •• . 
$5 • oo
• I Order. Customer

pays sales tax. ~~ crust or a free small cheese pizza, there's 1 pays sales tax. 
Valid a~ listed • ~-~s~ 1 Validatlisted -· ®~
more reasons to make this the week for a 1 locations. --t'l.AiAoU-~~~ 
locations. • · ® ­
Expires: ~),-"#~ special treat from Domino's Pizza. So why 1Expires: 2-17-89. ~v·v~
2-14-89. ·vw--. 
not give us a call? In 30 minutes or less . you'II see why this is the week you've been 
waiting for. ·----------------------· 
TueS. Fri.
Call Now! 
Notre Dame 

r·····················-, 277-2151 
I Ir·---------------------,
WACKY WEEKEND! I
I TERRIFIC TUESDAY! 1835 South Bend Ave. 
I I : Get 6 Icy Cold Cokes® :
1 Get Two Medium Pizzas 1 
: with any pizza purchase :
: WHh your choice of up to seven : : toppings· single portions only. : :Offer valid only FOR ONLY : 
on Friday and 
1 1
1 Offer valid only II FOR ON 1 1 Saturday. One II
1 on Tuesday. One • L Y 1 99¢ 1 
I offer per order. 
II 
Customer • 1
: ~~~;!~ . . $9.99 : DOMINO'S I · I
pays sales tax. ~ 1 sales tax. Valid • . ® I PIZZA I Valid at listed rl-:J..'!Jij~M I 1 at listed ~ I 
I locations. ®. · I
:~.-~ 

1 locations. ~;~.L s~ 1 . DELIVERS' I Expires: ,;;.;-I 1 Expires: 2-15-89. pR4f'V~ · 1 . ·Y· I 2-19-89. I
FREE. 

·--····················· 
·----------------------· 
Weds. Sun. Sat. 
r··-···-····-~---------, 
Ir··--------------------, Ir····-----------··-----,
WACKY WEEKEND! I
SUNDAY DOUBLE :
I WILD WEDNESDAY! 
I : Get 6 Icy Cold Cokes® : 
I Get Two Small Pizzas FEATURE! : : with any pizza purchase : With Any Topping Get Two Small Cheese Pizzas : 
1 Offer vllid only FOR ONLY :
•I I Offer valid only FOR ONLY Offer valid only II FOR ONLY :I I on Friday and 1
on Sunday. One 

: on Wednesday. Saturday. One 
$4 49 1 991/t.
offer per order. · Customer pays • • I 
: off~':~~~er. em "' :
I o~~~~::er ~~ $5.99
I pays sales tax. ~ sales tax. Valid • · ® I I pays sales tax. · .,~ ..J.MJ.w I 
at listed -1/J.-.t~-I
I Valid at listed • ':a~~ I Valid at listed ® .1.~:-p-';h'f}..~~~
: ~· I

locations. ~~~"":~-il~. ~~ 1 I locations. t1 ••:1:/. I
I locations. • ~~li#~ Expires: 2-16-89. ~~ 1 I Ex'plres: I: Expires: 2-16-89. -~. Y 
I 
I 2·19-89. I 
·----------------------·
~--------------------~ ·---~----------------~ 
Accent 

Thursday , February 2, 1989 page 9 
SARG improves student-alumni relations 
JANICE ARCHER accent writer 

O
n a campus as busy as 
Notre Dame's, it is diffi­

cult to keep track of the on­
going activities, and even 
harder to know what organi­
zation is sponsoring a given 
event. One behind-the-scenes 
organization is the Student­
Alumni Relations Group, also 
known as SARG. 
SARG is a service organiza­
tion formed in 1981 with the 
purpose of functioning as a 
liaison between students and 
alumni. The group represents 
the Alumni Association on 
campus, with a three-fold 
program encompassing its 
service goals : to serve the 
students, the alumni, and the 
community of South Bend. . One important activity 
SARG has organized is the 
Student-Alumni Reception. 
Held today from 4:45 to 6: 15 
p.m. in the Gold Room of the North Dining Hall, alumni in diversified career fields will be answering students' ques­tions. They will be next to biographies of themselves, taking inquiries about their career choices, job demands, or other concerns students interested in their fields may have. 
SARG also sponsors the Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series. Participating alumni return to speak about a career, hobby, or social ser-
I 


The Observel>£.0. Bailey Students discuss upcoming events at the Student Alumni Relations Group Meeting. 
vice they perform that the student body would find inter­esting.' Any organization that would like a representative speaker from its field of in­terest can contact SARG. SARG will then use its re­sources to search for such an alumnus. Previous lecturers have been Mike Flynn, a lawyer from the Los Angeles firm of Paul Hastings, Janofski, and Walker, and Donald Barr,_publisher of Sports Illustrated. 
A few of the many other activities in which SARG is involved include: the Senior Send-Off Picnic, Geographic Clubs, reunion tables at the upcoming JPW, and Career Day for the Preprofessional Society. 
Since SARG is concerned with both students and alumni, it participates in 

several projects that serve the vast number of past graduates. The Notre Dame Magazine is mailed to alumni, and for those who are visually impaired, SARG has audio tapings of the _articles available. Another service is the hospitality center set up in the north dome of the ACC during home football game weekends. The Alumni Asso­ciation provides this gather­ing for visiting alumni, and SARG members are present to help. 
Not only is SARG working on the student-alumni rela­tionship, but it is also reach­ing out to include the commu­nity of South Bend in its activities, such as the upcom­ing event Christmas in April. It is currently searching for independent programs that will involve them with local social concerns. 
In the spirit of the Year of Cultural Diversity, SARG is encouraging diversity within the group by welcoming new members. It promotes partic­ipation and suggestions from any organization, and is cur­rently developing programs to deal with the issue of cul­tural diversity on campus for the benefit of all. 
SARG, in its ninth year, has strong leadership guiding it into the future. Its well­organized structure and dedi­cated members ensure that this group will remain com­mitted to its goal of serving the entire Notre Dame fam­ily. President Mike Whitton said, "We want students to know SARGis here, willing to aid any organization and do what we can to implement their ideas." SARG can cur­rently be reached through the offices of the Alumni Associa­tion in the Administration Building. 

Slouxsle and the Banshees display Its unique talent In Its latest album, Peepshow. 
WVFI 
AM 64 

Top 10 Albums 
Jan. 23-Jan. 30, 1989 
1. 
The Replacements "I'll Be You" 

2. 
The Violent Femmes "3" 


3. 
The Pogues "Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah" 

4. 
The Fine Young Cannibals "She Drives Me Crazy" 

5. 
The Dead Milkmen "Beelzebubba" 


6. 
Trip Shakespeare "Are You Shakesperienced" 

7. 
New Order "Technique" 

8. 
The Saints "Prodigal Son" 

9. 
Dinosaur Jr. "Bug" 


10. 
The Go Betweens "16 Lovers Lane" 


Bizarre Peepshow 
COLLEEN CRONIN accent writer 
S 
porting some very strange lyrics, Peepshow, the latest by Siouxsie and the Banshees, is at the least an interesting album and is over­all just a great album. 
This cult-punk band from the mid-'70s has put out some of the most bizarre music in the punk realm of the music world. Even though Peepshow is a much cleaner and simpler album than its past work, it still holds true to the group's dark and bizarre image. 
The first song to be released, "Peek-A-Boo" is one of the more upbeat songs on the album, and is not typi­cal of the rest of the album. Regardless, "Peek-A-Boo" is one of the best songs on the album and hopefully will not succumb to radio overkill. Dealing with soft-core pornog­raphy, the song catches the listener from the very start with strange sounds similar 
Calvin and Hobbes 

to the record being played 
backwards. 
In sharp contrast to the up­
beat "Peek-A-Boo" is the 
macabre "Rawhead and 
Bloodybones," and the lyrics 
are true to the title. I could 
find no hidden meaning in the 
song--it is simply a 
nigqtmarish, gory lullaby of 
sorts. The music, which is 
sing-song and even borders on 
childish, defies such lyrics as 
"We're down here, held here, 
dragged here, and drowned 
here by rawhead and 
bloodybones." The sounds of 
a child crying at the end of 
the song add the final bizarre 
note to the song.
Another of the more warped 
and stranger songs on the al­
bum is "Carousel." With 
music that ominously mocks 
a carnival carousel, Sioux's 
lyrics are enough to keep any 
child away from a carnival. . Though quite morbid, 
"Carousel" is also one of the 
better songs on the album. 
None of the songs on Peep­
show are quite the same 
either musically or lyrically, 
thereby keeping the listener 
~------~------~ 
W~~J'5 f., CRASI.\ 1tSI \)IJMMi 0\=F 'io\l n1\S 7 ~'«I GN SIT \F 
GO!), 
11\E. \.\Ill \S SI>.IT 10 ffi \XlWN. ­
from becoming bored. "Burn Up" is an excellent, catchy dance tune, while "Last Beat of My Heart" is the closest Siouxsie has come to a bal­lad. Sioux befriends a scarecrow in "Scarecrow," and "Rhapsody" brings atten­tion to the suppression of the Stalinist era of Russian his­tory. Peepshow makes for a good headphones album with sound alternating between left and right, and har­monicas and accordions lurking beneath Sioux's puncturing voice. 
The Banshees began in 1976 with Sid Vicious, who later went on to the Sex Pistols, on drums. The Banshees have put out nine other albums, with Through The Looking Glass in 1986 being the predecessor to Peepshow. 
Peepshow is definitely Siouxsie through and through with dark morbid lyrics and off-the-wall sounds. Unlike previous albums, the music does not overwhelm Sioux's unmistakable voice, but adds to it and makes it all the more interesting to listen to. 
Bill Watterson 
l'IEll l 
WO\JLDN'\' HIWE Slt.ERED LIKE. 
TIIAT.' HE 
DESERliED 1\.' 
-· 

page 10 The Observer 
Mourning's 17 points leads Georgetown over Seton Hall 
Associated Press 
LANDOVER, MD-­Freshman Alonzo Mourning scored 17 points and ignited a second-half surge that enabled sixth-ranked Georgetown to solidify its hold on first place in the Big East Conference with a 74-66victoryoverNo.10Seton Hall on Wednesday night. 
Georgetown led 40-39 when Mourning made a driving layup over Ramon Ramos. The basket started a 9-2 run that gave the Hoyas a 49-41 lead with 9:09 left and Seton Hall never got closer than three points thereafter. 
Georgetown made 14 free throws in the final 3:04, includ­ing five by Anthony Allen. 
Memphis St. 99, FSU 82 
TALLAHASSEE, FLA.-­Sophomore Elliott Perry scored a career-high 33 points and no-miss Rodney Douglas had 17 points and 15 rebounds to lead Memphis State past No. 8 Florida State 99-82 in a Metro Conference basketball game Wednesday night. 
The Tigers, 14-7 and 3-2, jumped to a 9-0 lead and were never threatened as the Semi­noles shot just 35 percent and saw an eight-game winning streak end. Tony Dawson scored 22 points for Florida State, 16-2 and 4-1. 
Memphis State led by as many as 19 points in the first half and by 87-58 late in the game. 
Louisville 108, Virginia Tech 95 
LOUISVILLE--Tony Kimbro and Keith Williams scored career highs of 21 and 19 points, respectively, pacing a balanced attack as No. 7 Louis­ville pulled away in the second half to beat Virginia Tech 108­95 Wednesday night. 
Louisville, playing its first full game without injured cen­ter Pervis Ellison, improved to 15-3 overall and took over the Metro Conference lead at 4-0 thanks to Memphis State's 99­82 victory over No. 8 Florida State. The Seminoles are 4-1. 

Clemson 85, UNC 82 

CLEMSON, S.C.--Kirkland Howling made a 3-point shot and two free throws in the final minute as Clemson stunned No. 3 North Carolina 85-82 in an At­lantic Coast Conference bas­ketball game Wednesday night. 
The victory was the just the second for the Tigers over the Tar Heels in the last 20 meetings and the first since 1985. 
North Carolina led 82-80 on a pair of free throws by J .R. Reid with 1:21 left but Howling's 3­pointer with 53 seconds remain­ing gave the Tigers a one-point lead. Mter a North Carolina miss, Howling was fouled and hit both ends of a one-and-one with 24 seconds left. 

The Observer Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be plepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  HOUSE FOR'RENT 3 BLOCKS FROM NO 3 BEDROOMS-$47&t.10 516 NAPOLEON 232-3616  NEED DUKE TICKETS BADL VIII CALL PETE AT 277-4165  Anyone driving to or thru the Milwaukee area the weekend of Feb. 3 have room for 2 riders to share expenses? Call  WANT SOME INFO ABOUT YOUR FU­tURE CAREER??? Who better to ask than Notre Dame's own Alumni Board!!  ONE-WAY FLIGHT TO BOSTON ON MARCH 3 LISA X2841  
DUKE STUD TICKET FOR TRADE OF  Chris or Paige II 2923 ASAP.  Come see them at the Student-Alumni  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Typlng.Wordprocenlng 237-1949 TYPING PICKUP I DELIVERY 277-7406  HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT THE IRISH B&B DURING JPW. LOCATED 2 Ml FROM N.D. FOR INFO. RING 272­7738. ROOMS FOR RENT. ALSO 2 BDRM HOME 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 272-6306 WANTED  2 TO 4 KEENAN REVUE TIX PREFERABLY FRIDAY OR SATUR­DAY. CALL CHRIS AT 4079AND LEAVE MESSAGE BEFORE THURSDAY AF­TERNOON. LOUISVILLE STUDENT TICKET 4 SALE CALL 2964 BETH Need 5 DUKE Tix. Stud or Ga call x1252 WANT SAT. NITE TICKET FOR  .......................... STUDENTS NEEDED TO ACT AS LIVE STREET MUSICIANS AND STREET ENTERTAINERS. CALL BOB AT 239­7254. SUMMER PROGRAMS SMC & NO­LONDON (MAY 24-JUNE 23) ROME (JUNE 18­JULY 17). TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOT­LAND. FRANCE, GERMANY, SWITZ. TAKE UP TO 9 CREDITS. COURSES IN ART, BUSI­NESS, EDUCATION, HIST., ITALIAN  Reception in North Dining Hall Thurs. Feb 2 4:45-6:30 THE ALUMNI BOARD IS IN TOWN AND WANTS TO SEE YOU!!! Over 40 Alumni will be there representing a vast range of careers including: medical, legal. engineering, finance, accounting, retirees--the list goes on!!! Come see them, Thurs. Feb 2 4:45-6:30 North Dining Hall.  THE GENERIC PERSONAL This personal is dedicated to all of those students out there who fa~h­fully scan the personal ads each day at lunchtime w~h the remote hope of finding one under their name. To all of you, I offer SINCERE WISHES FOR A GREAT DAY and many more to come! -from Gaby Clark, a fellow personal-seeker  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  CALL  NO Law school students to be reps for Kaplan.SMH Bar Ravl-cour.... Earn free bar revl-course plus $$'a. Cell 272-4135. Ask for Sue.  KEENAN REVUE. WILL TRADE FOR THURS. NITE. CALL KATHLEEN 3865. HELP ME II need 1 Duke ticket. Call Mike at 4075.Thanxl  JUSTICE. INFO MEETING FEB. 13 IN 351 MADELEVA. PASSPORT PIC­TURES AVAILABLE. FOR INFO. CALL PROF. A. R. BLACK 294-4460 OR 272­3726. F6 JAN. 31, FEB 2, 6,8,1 0  STUDENT ALUMNI RECEPTION!!!!! STUDENT ALUMNI RECEPTION!!!!! STUDENT ALUMNI RECEPTION!!!!! Thurs. Feb. 2 4:45-6:30 North Dining Hall  LIVE MUSIC FREDDY JONES BAND BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND  
\ LOST/FOUND ) found an address book in the post office on Thursday. Hmight be im-portant to you.call233-4381. FOUND: Keys at The Varsity Shop. Call 2n-0057. LOST: Gold bracelet with a two-bead design. Great sentimental value. Call Kathleen at 283-3865.  NEED 2 DUKE TICKETS CALL EILEEN AT 287-5602 Want to Improve Your CAREER?Be Your Own Boss? Need Part Time Income? I Have An OUTSTANDING OPPORTU­NITY w~h Network 2000 an Authorized Independent Marketer of US SPRINT long distance services. Call Oliver 234­5723 Independent Marketing Rep. ············································;~·········  I NEED 3 DUKE GA'slllll Ted; x1934 HELP! I NEED DUKE STUDENT OR GA TIX. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 4073. Need Saturday night Keenan Revue ticket. Will trade for Thursday licket. Call Kathleen at x3865. Need Louisville GA's. x.-2339 I NEED 8 LOUISVILLE GA TICKETS CALL Julie 4929  SOUTH PADRE ISLAND FOR SPRING BREAK 7 Nights Luxury Condominiums,Round Trip Air Transportation. The official Notre Dame endorsed trip. $437. To sign up call Bob 283-1521 or Student Activities Off. at 239-n57. BRIGHTEN YOUR LIFE!! MEET THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL THROUGH OUR SINGLES CLUB. INTRO SINGLES CLUB, BOX 3006, BOSTON, MA 02130.  FEEL THE BLUES FRIDAY AT SENIOR BAR 10:00 P.M. ATTENTION ANY ND-SMC WOMEN IN­TEREST ED IN PLAYING LACROSSE CALL KATHY BENZ AT 284-5482. ""*SENIORS***" SENOR KELLY'S  MCCORMICK'S 125 N. MICHIGAN FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 10 PM WOMEN'S CARE CENTER PHONE-A­THON FEB. 6 THRU FEB 9 AND FEB. 13 THRU FEB. 16 CALL KEVIN BELTON AT THE CEN­TER 232-7781 FOR-MORE DETAILS  
FOUND: Has anyone lost a check from Erbrecht ConsuHing Services? ~ so, please call Chris x2894 to claim the check.  FOR SALE  PLEASE HELP ME FIND 4 DUKE GA TIX MY APPRECIATION AND YOUR PROFIT WILL BE ENORMOUS! CALL PAULA 284-4082.  ATIENTION NO HOOP FANS : Respond "ELLIS" to every hoop that LaPhonso scores!!!! LaPhonso .... ELLLLLLIISSSSSIIIIII  $3-ALL YOU CAN EAT TACO BAR FRIDAY, FEB. 3 5PM-8PM '**"SENIORS*'**'  READ THIS ADI GONG SHOW AUDmONS Cell x1597  
LOST: Jan.17-SILVER BRACELET­either at campus view or on campus near P. E. It was a Christmas gift and it really means a lot to me. If found PLEASE call Julie at 4351.$$$reward  Order your TEXTBOOKS 25% OFFI SAVE $$$ on paperbacks. 30% OFF! PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. Just 3 blocks from campus. PH# 233­2342  KEENAN TIX: Got 2 Fri, need another nile. Call x49551 HELP!!! I NEED 1 DUKE GA CALL JOHN x3367  HEY BLOND GUY '~«>LASSES IN NOH I HOPE U R THE 1 I MEANT. EITHER WAY, I HAVE IN MIND A WAY TO MEET. BUT FIRST, I'D UKE AN­OTHER  "-*SENIORS"-* SENOR KELLY'S $3-ALL YOU CAN EAT  NOW READ IT AGAIN. DO "WHATEVER" YOU LIKE IN FRONT OF HUNDREDS OF PEOPLEI ANYTHING GOESIINTERESTED? Call  
LOST................ Gold heari locket from necklace between Hurley and  Can you buy Jeeps, Cars, 4X4's seized in drug raids for under $1 00.00? Call for  1 DUKE STUD FOR SALE X1631  INTERESTING RESPONSE. M.  TACO BAR FRIDAY, FEB. 3  x1597 to be In the GONG SHOW. (Don't be ahyl)  
South dining hall Monday-PLEASE return ~ foundl Kristin x1124 LOST: 30 Macintosh diskettes from my car in C1. The importance of those disks cannot be exagerated. $$$ for informa­tion leading to the retum of them. Please call II 4936or 289-1628. Or~ you already have them, please retum them to 230 Knott Hall. No questions asked.  facts today. 602-837-3401. Ext. 881 1986 TOYOTA TERCEL 2DR LIFTBACK EXC COND 25,000 MILES $3900. CALL JANET 284-5710 8-4:30 M-F For Sale: SYNTHESIZER call Joe 1865 For Sale-nearty new HP15C. Best offer. Call LAURA, 2568.  PERSONALS Wear Gr.., to the Duke Gemell Green NO shirts here on sale lrom Irish lnsan~--$6 Go Irish-Wear Green I  Karin Grace!! Happy B-Day, Babyl Thanxs for being a GREAT friend! Luv yal Carrie Collegiate Jazz Festival Logo constest. Entries due Feb. 6 4:00 in Student Ac­tivities Office in LaFortune. Winning Entries will receive a $75 prize and will become property of CJF. Questions? contact Student Activities Office.  5PM-8PM "*"SENIORS"-* Undermine their pompous authority, reject their moral standards. Make anarchy and disorder your trad emarks. Cause as much chaos and disruption as possible, but don'I let I hem take you ALIVE February 2, 1979 Love, Jill and Kirsten  PROGRESSIVE MUSIC PROGRESSIVE MUSIC TONIGHT AT TED'S  
LOST: Gold Quartz Consort Watch w~h a black band. If found call Jennie 283­3688. Did you find a silver pocket watch? ~ is worth nothing, but it was my grndfather's. I lost ~ Saturday. Reward $ is offered. Please call me Kristen II 4812 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ BANDANA:LOST IN CCE BLDG LIGHT PINK WITH BLUE PRINT STATING "SKI-LOVE­LAND' AROUND THE EDGES. MEANS A LOT TO ME SO IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL HEAT· HER MAVERICK AT 294-4052. REWARDIll  LOOKIN FOR A JUDO Gl? We have 2. sizes 3 & 4 for $25 each, or best offer. Melissa x34n or Laura x3948. MCAT MATERIALS FOR SALE Call Dr. John at 3419 or risk failing .... MCAT MATERIALS FOR SALE Call Dr. John at 3419 or risk failing ... TICKETS NEED 2 DUKE GAS CALL 2281 NEED 2 DUKE GAs-Kristin x1124  LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review early. Kaplaro-SMH revle-fo meny states avellable here In South Bend. Transfer back home for summer. Dis­counts for Kaplan LSAT alumni. RaHrve before March 2 Cell-272-4135. Ask for Sue. SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND-WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373 .....................y·········································SPRINGBREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE  DANNY HOGAN I HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY FUDGE-FACE II LOVE, COLLEEN SENIOR BAR SENIOR BAR Billy "STIX" Nicks and the N's and OUTS 10:00 p.m. FRIDAY  T. SMITH IS A BIG NERD! HEY EVERYBODY! IT'S PATII 'WON'T YOU BE MY NEIGHBOR?" BRIODY'S 22ND BIRTHDAY! WE LOVE YOU PATIIIIIIII LOVE, THE "SVELTE" 2N FRESHMEN. FREDDY JONES Thurs. at Bridget's Fri. & Sat. at McCormick's DAN KING ...  THEODORE'S PRESENTS MUSIC THEME NIGHT FOLLOWING TONIGHT'S COMEDY ZONE OUR DJ WILL BE PLAYING PRO­GRESSIVE MUSIC ALL NIGHT LONG !!! PROGRESSIVE MUSIC JUNIORS JUNIOR FORMAL MARDI GRAS  
SOA. YACHTS BIMINI BAHAMAS  Which Karen in Fariey? Any hints? -A  TJXS ARE STILL ON SALE  
HELPI!IIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  I  REALLY  GROUPS OF 8, $435.00 PP 7 DAYS  Karen in Farley  CLASS OFFICE  
NEED TWO DUKE GA'S SOON! $$$  INCLUDES ALL MEALS  ACTS NEEDED for BCAF Talent Show  TODAY AND TOMORROW  
FOR RENT  PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 2163 AND LEAVE A MESSAGE $$$$$$$$$$$$$  1-800-999-7245 ANYTIME ORGANIZE I CRUISE FREE  on February 11, 1989. Call soon to reserve a spot--either Tracy (3879) or  PETE,  HAPPY 21stlll  1:30-4:00 IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO HAVE  
-Agnes(4011 )--and  limit  acts  to  5-8  LOVE,  THE TIME OF YOUR UFE  
....  8  BDRM  HSE  AVAILABLE  89-90  Please, I desperately need 2 Duke Stud tixl Cengiz Searfoss x1658  SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spend  minutes!  KAREN  
SCHOOL YEAR. 87SMO. 234-9384. FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK­ 4 Duke tixs for sale. 272-6306  7ntrideys et Spring Break's HOT­TEST resort, The Clarendon Plua horne of Penrod'Wfhe Plantation Club  GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID FRI. 12:15 DOME STEPS  Vince "Studmuffin" Owens 20th,one day latel We were  Happy thinking  FOR SALE--One DUKE student ticket. Call Pete at 1187.  
FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL  PLEASE HELP!!! We need to trade 4  end the largest pool deck ON THE  about you Anyone else,unable to reach  
FOR ALL NO AC"nYmES. RESERVE  tickets for the Friday night Keenan Revue  BEACHI  $195  per  pen10n  limited  SOPHOMORES  Vince can still call the Sex God today at  
NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS.  to either Thursday or Saturday night. Call  apace. Cell today Breakaway Toura 1­ Fall Formal pictures are here! Pick yours  II  2301  or  go  to  33  Sarin  
818-471-5711.  Kelly at 277-6895. Thanks.  800-444-7384.  up in the class office.  Love,Lyn,Lor,Wen,Kel,& Riche  I'm still alive. Thank God.  

Thursday , February 2, 1989 The Observer page 11 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The NO Men's Volleyball Club hosts the George O'Grady Memorial Classic this weekend. Friday's first­round action matches Bowling Green versus Miami (Ohio) at 6 p.m. and Notre Dame versus Indiana at 8 p.m. The consolation match will be Saturday at 1 p.m. and the cham­pionship begins at 3 p.m. All matches will be at the Joyce ACC Pit and admission is free. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVIII has an open assistant commissioner position. Any freshman or sophomore in­terested in being assistant commissioner can pick up an application at the student government secretary's office on the the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due Tuesday. Any questions should be directed to Mike at x3305. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Wadkins ready for LA Open 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES--Lanny Wad­kins begins one of his favorite portions of the PGA tour this week in the $1 million Los An­geles Open. 
"I'm really looking forward to it," the 39-year-old veteran said Wednesday before a prac­tice round on the tough old Riviera Country Club course. 
"I'm playing good right now. I could have won all three tour­naments I played in this year." 
Wadkins finished sixth in both the Tournament of Cham­pions and the Pebble Beach Na­tional Pro-Am and was fourth in the Bob Hope Classic. 

"My problem is that I just gave away too many shots early in the week each week, then had too much ground to make up," he said. 
"I was throwing away too many shots. A couple of bad drives a day cost me too much. 
"But the last round I played (a 67 at Pebble Beach) was the best driving round I've had this year. That gives me a lot of con­fidence. 
"And the next four tourna­ments I'm playing, I've won at one time or another. That's a very good feeling." 
Of his 18 career victories, 10 have come in the first three months of the season. Two of them (in 1979 and 1983) have been in this tournament on this course, one of Wadkins' favorites. 
"And every time I win early, I win more than once in the year," said Wadkins, a former PGA champion who won twice last year. 
"I think I come out playing scared. 
"You work all year long to get ahead of the other guys. Then it comes the first of the year and you're back to even with them again. 
"I don't like to be even. I want to be ahead." 

London 249 Amsterdam 235 
Paris 259 Brussels 235 
Tokyo 399 Munich 259 
Council Travel/GlEE the largest and oldesT 
student !ravel network rn AmeriCa has 100's ot 
student. youth and budget arr lares worldwrae 
Scheduled earners' Book anytunet Guaranteed 
reservatrons• Fle)(rble returns• Fly rn/out any 
Crt)" Some restnc11ons apply Above tares 1/2 
round·trop from ChicaGO Call us lor FREE 
Studeorl 1ravel Catalog 
CounciiTravel 29 E. Delaware 631 Foster st. Chicago ILG0611 Evanston,ILG0201 

Phelps 
continued from page 16 
seeing 10 or more minutes of action in the 85-75 victory. 
"I thought in our game against Dayton we did the thing we wanted to do, play our bench and keep people well rested," Phelps said. "I thought we got the mileage out 
of Janiere Jackson and Joe happen in this storied rivalry. 
Fredrick to where there wasn't that much pressure on them." The Warriors are coming off a 106-90 loss at Miami (Fla.) last Saturday that lowered their record to 8-7, but they had 
.-:=:=31=2='9=5=1-o=ss=s=============---w.:.:..:on::_:fi:..:.v..:.e_:o..:.f..:.th::.e::....::la:s..:.t..:.s:ix:..:g::a:m:.;es 
I"' 
STUDENT
r 
ALUMNI RECEPTION 
Come mingle with Alumni in the 
Gold Room 
of North Dining Hall 

Febuary 2, 1989 
Sponsored by SARG and ND Alumni Association 
().\..\:. with special guest 
0~:o'f<! BROKEN HOMES SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4 8:00 PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
All seats reserved $15.50 Tickets available at the Civic Auditorium 

before facing the Hurricanes, versatility. Against Temple, including a big victory over guards Jamere Jackson, Joe DePaul. This is the last season Fredrick and Tim Singleton as an independent for the War­combined for 39 points, while riors, as they will join the Mid­the inside tandem of LaPhonso western Collegiate Conference Ellis and Keith Robinson next fall. 
The Irish have won the last 10 games in the series between the two teams. The last Mar­quette victory was a 70-62 win in the 1981-82 season, but Phelps realizes anything can 


tallied  34  points  against  
Dayton.  
Mter  a  season  of  consis­ 

tency, Robinson is finally get­ting in the spotlight. He scored 
"I think anytime Notre Dame and Marquette get to­gether it's good basketball," Phelps said. "I think obviously with their win over DePaul, knowing they're not eligible this year for the MCC tourna­
ment, they're still looking to be­come the independent that beats the independent." 
In their wins this week over the Owls and Flyers, the Irish have shown their depth and 

HIPPY BIR,.HDIY FISH CALLED LORI! 

Loads of 
Kerry, Beth, and Shell 

16 points and pulled down 11 rebounds Tuesday night. Rob­inson averages 12.4 points and 
8.9 rebounds per game. 
"If they picked a team in the country where you come up with the invisible athletes who are very suuccessful but never in the headlines, Keith Robin­son would be first-team All­American," Phelps said. "He's probably the most underes­timated player on this team and yet he's probably the glue to our success. The guy that's always consistent is Keith Rob­inson.'' 
The Warriors will bring a very balanced attack into tonight's game. Four of the five 
Marquette starters average in double figures. 
Sophomore forward Trevor Powell leads the team, averag­ing 14.5 points per game. Senior guard Mike Flory scores at a 
13.7 clip followed by junior for­ward Tyrone Baldwin at 13.2 and junior guard Tony Smith at 12.3. Sub Mark Anglavar averages 7.4 points per game and he had a career-high 24 points against Miami last Sat­urday. 
"You have to be concerned with all of them because of their balance offensively," Phelps said. "I think you just have to play smart basketball and respect what they are as individuals as well as a team." 
Notre Dame will end its seven-game homestand Sun­day against Duke. 
THOMAS DOOLEY AWARD WINNER DR. ROBERT LOMBARDO, O.F. ND "79 
Will be at the Center for Social Concerns February 2 
4:30pm 
To talk to students 11bout his wort as Director of P~tdre Pio Shelter for Homeless men in the South· Bronx 
Everyone is welcome to attend refreshments available 
-

------------------~­
Loyola Marymount shatters five NCAA records in victory 
Associated Press points by both teams in the first cent from the floor. U.S. inter­
half (170). national shot 61.1 percent but 
LOS ANGELES--Loyola The previous record for most took "only" 101 shots, making Marymount and U.S. interna­points by one team was 164 in 63. Loyola was 34-of-45 from the tional scored two points every 1976 by Nevada-Las Vegas and free-throw line; U.S. Interna­14 seconds. A shot went up equalled in Loyola's season­tional 21-of-35. every 11 seconds. Loyola won opener against Azusa p~,.;f;,.. Loyola had the rebounding181-150, and a point was scored U.S. international's total points and 3-point edge. Loyola out­for every eight fans at the and the halftime scores broke rebounded U.S. International Lions' Gersten Pavilion. marks from the Jan. 7 game. 63-49, and made 13-of-34 from 
Those 2,661 saw one crazy "Everything happens so 3-point distance to 3-of-7 for game. rapidly you really don't have U.S. international. 
So crazy, in fact, the official time to say, 'Wow, look at that Because of the big lead, Wes­scorer wrote "Whew! ! " at the score,"' Westhead said. "We thead said his team slowed bottom of the shot chart. just don't ever think about that. down at the end. After scoring 
It was the highest scoring col­It's a rapid-fire kind of game. 11 points in the 1:34 stretch, lege game ever, breaking five You kind of wake up about 3 Loyola scored just 16 more in NCAA records for offense and o'clock in the morning thinking the final 3: 52. ending a home-and-home se­about it." ries during which 637 points At times, it seemed humanly Ironically, the Lions next were scored. impossible to play much faster game is against St. Mary's 
Loyola broke the 100-point than the two teams did Tuesday Friday night in a matchup of barrier Tuesday night on an 8-night. the nation's top scoring team foot jumper by Enoch Simmons There was 3:52 to play, and and the country's second-best with just 56 seconds gone in the finally, the game slowed down. defensive club. Loyola, 12-7, is second half, and Coach Paul There wasn't another basket averaging 113.5 points while St. Westhead said: "in a game like scored for 20 seconds. Mary's, 17-2, is allowing 54.7 this, we can get in excess of 200 The longest stretch between 
points.

points." baskets in the game was 59 The 331 total points in the seconds, the shortest, two The teams are tied for first game broke the record of 306 seconds. place in the West Coast Athletic 
that Loyola and U.S. interna­Loyola took 119 shots in the Conference along with Pepper­tional set on Jan. 7 when the game, making 67 for 54.2 per-
dine. All have 5-1 records.
Lions beat the Gulls 162-144. 
The game also set records for most points by one team, most points by a losing team, most points by one team in the first half (94 for Loyola) and most 
STEAKS 
PRIME RIB SEAFOOD 

this semester make it ~ 
notre dame's the 
student-run 

c e IIa r 
record store 

with renewed dedication to serving the campus music needs, you'll find something new every week! 
jan 30-feb 3 bonus record week-half price! 
feb 6-feb 10 island getaway weekend 
feb 13-feb 17 co give-away week 
feb 20-feb 24 special order week 
and 
feb 27-mar 3ZEP FEST '89 
a small store with more of what you buy records for! 

on sheer athleticism and that's 
it. 
So here it is--The Final Four: 

NCAAs 
West Regional: Georgetown. 

continued from page 16 John Thompson always of good teams, but no one, with finagles his way out west some­the exception of Illinois (and a how, and there is a dearth of healthy Kendall Gill) will be talent out there. Arizona should able to make a run at the na-be better than they are, and the tional title. Indiana can't do it entire Pac Ten is down. with mirrors (read: the three-Midwest Regional: Okla-guard offense) all season. homa. They've got the horses. 
How Bill Frieder can't make Only Illinois will make a bid for this year's Wolverine squad a any regional, possibly losing to superpower is beyond me, but the Sooners here. But watch out when I see Glen Rice and Terry for Missouri. This finally could Mills shooting three-pointers at be Norm Stewart's year. will, it seems to me that the Southeast Regional: North problem is discipline. Ohio Carolina. This is a toughie, be­State is a fluke. I refuse to ac-cause I think most of the knowledge Jay Burson as a country's talent this year lies good player. Call me stubborn, in the East and Southeast. but I just don't see how he does Louisville will be there, as will it. Louisville would have buried Duke, Georgia Tech, NC State the Buckeyes with Pervis in the (although they could go west), second-half lineup. Florida State and my sleeper, 
UNLV will ramble through Florida. the Big West, as usual, but the East Regional Syracuse. The Rebs are not a good team. A Orange will be back with a hor­lot of excellent individuals, but rible, horrible vengeance. not a good team. I love Tark as Mark my words. But Oklahoma much as the next guy, but will edge them in the final. I they'll win maybe two rounds hope. 
..--------....~~~~~~~~~~--.
CATHOLIC FAITH SERIES 
CHURCH --SHAPING THE FUTURE 
CHURCH 
What are the issues facing the Church today? What 
changes are occurring in the Catholic Church as 
the laity realize their responsibilities and rights as Christians? How are the Christians of the Third World effecting and shaping the future of the Roman Catholic Church? 
SR. REGINA COLL, CSJ, Director of Field Education, 
Theology Department, will 
address these questions on 
Sunday, February 5 and 
Tuesday, February 7, in Keenan Chapel, 7-8:30 p.m. 
For further information call Sister Mary Curran, CSC Campus Min 239-vc...-T'-• 
with any regular purchase, get an LP for half price! 

open visa & -
mon-fri 12-8 mastercard sat 12-5 accepted 
~------~-~~---.... 
Thursday , February 2, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Men's indoor track ready for Saturday's Meyo Invitational 

I KAPLAN 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
Weekly indoor track action continues for the Irish this weekend as the men's track team plays host to the Meyo In­vitational on Saturday. 
Some of the most competitive atheletes in the nation will be in attendance, especially in the "Meyo Mile," an independent invitational mile run that will host a field of Olympic-caliber runners. 
Topping the list of atheletes that will be participating in the Meyo Mile is John Quade of Arizona Universtiy, who won last year's competition by run­ning the mile in 3:57.3. 
Giving Quade competition in defending his title will by Richie Martinez, who has run the mile in 3: 55 and was a finalist last year at the Olympic trials in the 1500 meters. 
Also included in this all-star cast are: Butch Brown, who has run the 800 meters in 1:45; Liam O'Neil, whose best time in the mile is 3:58; Michigan's John Trautman, sporting a four-minute mile; and Loyola's Ed Slowikowski, who won both the mile run and the 1000 meters at the MCC Track Championships held at Notre Dame two weeks ago. 


In what is considered to be one of the top invitationals in the country, teams such as Pit­tsburgh, Georgetown, Ken­tucky, Arizona, Michigan, and Michigan State will be attend­ing, and Dartmouth and Brown will be sending individual com­petitors. 
"This meet is going to be in­credible," said senior co­captain Ron Markezich. "It will be good to get in some fast races against these kind of teams." 
Last week, Notre Dame travelled to Wisconsin to par­ticipate in a tri-meet with Wis­consin and Iowa State. The Irish fell to both teams, partly because some key members were out with sicknesses and partly because of off­performances. 
The purpose of this meet for the Irish will be to get back on track and to record some qual­ifying times for upcoming championship meets. 
"This meet gives us opportu­nities to get great times so we can enter the Central Col­legiate Championships and to get some qualifiers to the up­coming IC4A's (Inter-Collegiate Association of Amateur Atheletes of America)," said Head Coach Joe Piane. 
The Irish expect excellent times from all runners not only because of the outstanding competition but also because the Meyo track itself is one of the fastest in the country. 
"This invitational is prob­ably one of the best in the country," said Markezich, who will be running his first meet of the season on Saturday, "mostly because everybody wants to run on this track be­cause it's so fast." 
Two of the team's top run­ners, however, will miss the meet because of injuries. Junior co-captain Yan Searcy has a sore leg and fifth-year senior Dan Garrett has ten­donitis in his foot. 
Another exciting event will be the two-mile relay, which will consist of the most compet­itive runners outside of the Meyo Mile. 
"I can single out the two-mile relay as a great race because Pittsburgh, Georgetown, Dartmouth and Kentucky will be competing," said Markezich. 
"We hope to get qualifiers, and the two-mile relay is one event that has the potential to qualify for the NCAA's," said Piane. 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTEq_ 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTJ-! BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135  Student Manager Applications and Job Descriptions for 1989-90 Are Now Available. Pick them up in the Office of Student Activities 315 La Fortune Application deadline is March 1, 1989  
• • FOR ~PRING BOMK * 7g{I(j:Jti.S ­£/UX1.12?.Y CO?fjJOMig{PUM.s * 1(01.19{1J PRJP Jl11( rr'1(JE!\[SP01(rr'ftrr'I09{ * 1 JI01.11(J'1(f£f£ JIO'Blf£ CJtrr'SJliLig{(j 01(WI9{1J S1.11tflg{(j $437 INCLUSIVE To sign op call Bob 283-1521 or Student Activities Office 239-7308  

~-~--------~---------------­
Irish ready for MCC matchup 
Liebscher 's play may be key to ND win against Detroit 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
When 5-8 sophomore guard Sara Liebscher of the Notre Dame women's basketball team takes the court, oppo­nents do not have to worry about strong-arm tactics, scowls and verbal abuse. 
In fad, to look at the native of Davenport, Iowa, one might think that the recent battle scars covering her cherubic cheeks make her a pushover. 
But as soon as the ball is put into play, Liebscher's quiet in­tensity takes over and her ac­tions speak for themselves. 
Her ability to drive and create scoring opportunities has kept her opponents on their heels all season and as the squad's second-leading scorer, she has been lighting up the scoreboard for 9.5 points per game, as well. 
Liebscher has developed into one of the team's most consis­tent players, stepping into a starting role for the Irish and becoming a pivotal player in the team's success. 
"I think she's one of those 
people who is a coach's type of 
player," said Irish head coach 
Muffet McGraw. "Sara always 
listens to what you what you 
want her to do then goes and 
does it. She's very poised under 
pressure and has good concen­
tration on the court, so people 
follow her example." 
Evidently, her teammates 
have indeed been following her 
lead, especially from the free 
throw line where Liebscher has 
hit an incredible .842 of her 
shots to lead the team this year, 
because fellow sophomores 
Krissi Davis and Karen Robin­
son are not far behind her. 
Kalbas 
continued from page 16 
the comeback player of the day award. Mter dropping the first , set 1-6, Kalbas. who is plagued by a sore thumb, edged Brandt 
Wegner, 1-6, 6-4, 6-4. 
"Brian settled down in the 
last two sets," said Bayliss. 
"He changed his style of play 
and keep more balls in play." 
The Argentinean Walter Dol­
hare, the No. 3 player, defeated 
Karl Krauter in two sets, 7-5, 
6-3. Dolhare utilized an aggres­
sive and hard hitting ground 
strokes to earn his first singles 
victory of the season. 
Mike Wallace, the No. 5 
player, turned in an impressive 
performance for the Irish. Wal­
lace, a junior from Pembroke 
Pines, Fla., thrashed Carty 
Richie, 6-2, 6-1. 
Davis has shot .830 from the charity stripe this season and Robinson is shooting just under that with .825 percent. 
Liebscher has established herself as more of a scoring 


l 1.. Sara Llebscher 

threat this season as well, hit­ting 57 percent of her shots to boost the Irish to tenth nation­ally with a .494 field goal percentage. 
But Liebscher has done more for the team than just score baskets. 
She has absconded with 30 steals and dished out 53 assists. And, with the loss of the team's leading rebounder, senior Heidi Bunek, for the rest of the year, she has stepped in to pull down 4.1 rebounds per game. 
So has Liebscher's new found success changed her mild­mannered demeanor or altered her work ethic? 
No, far from it. 
"It's not my place to do anything that's not in the team's game plan," said Liebscher. "I just try to keep a positive attitude and work as hard as I can everyday to im­prove. The rest just happens." 
Liebscher's soft-spoken per­sonality is in sharp contrast to her vociferous alter ego Robin­son, who shares guard duties with her. But what Liebscher 
Silk, a freshman who was fil­ling in for the injured Brian Kalbas, and Walter Dolhare dropped a three set battle, 3-6, 7-5, 6-1, to Greg Winchester­Eric Schmid. 
At the No. 3 position, Dave Reiter-Ryan Wenger (2-1) teamed up to defeat Carty Richie-Brent Dickman in straight sets, 6-1,7-6 (7-5). This matchup was highlighted by the outstanding play of Reiter, a senior from Canyon Country, Calif. 
"Dave has worked hard on his doubles," said Bayliss who possesses a career record of 300-109. "He has taken a lot of pride in his play and is a big part of the team." 
The solid Irish victory was impressive considering the team was coming off two con­

"Mike was very sharp ,...----------.. yeaterday," said Bayliss. "He SUMMER CAMP 
was the first guy off the court POSITIONS and that really helps Counselors: 21 +, coed, everybody play better. If 
you're having a bad day, it sleepaway camp, Mass. makes the consequences of Berkshires. WSI, arts s~ your match not as dire." crafts, tennis, all land and 
In doubles action, the No. 1 water sports, drama, duo of DiLucia-Wallace fought gymnastics, piano/play for 
back from losing the first set to edge Karl Krauter-Brandt shows, judo, dance, Wegner in three sets, 4-6, 7-5, photography, computers, 6-3. nature, w i·lderness, model '.'It was a great comeback," rocketry guitar yearbook
sa1d the second-year Head Co-' . ' . • 
ach. "Mike particularly came woodworking, AN, typ1st, 
aliveandplayedwellatthenet. Write: Camp Emerson, 5 
David returned serve well in Brassie Ad Eastshester 
the last two ~ets." ·NY 10l07 or cali lacks in volume, she makes up for with contagious enthusi­asm. 
"Karen and I are totally dif­ferent players, so I try to offset her and complement her," said Liebscher. "I'm not a bois­terous or loud player, as far as getting people going, but I try to pull people aside one on one to spur them on and give them confidence." 
Liebscher has needed to keep some of this confidence for her­self, as she came to Notre Dame with a slightly different basketball background than her teammates and had to make some adjustments. 
She spent the first six years 
of her career playing six-man 
basketball in Iowa, which uses 
three guards exclusively for 
defense and three forwards 
only on offense. 
"Its definitely a tough transi­
tion," said Liebscher. "Mter 
never playing defense or cross­
ing half court and only using 
two dribbles, it takes a while 
to adjust." 
But Liebscher almost did not 
have to worry about adjusting, 
because she did not earn a 
scholarship to Notre Dame un­
til late in her senior year. 
She had decided to become 
the fifth member of her family 
to attend Notre Dame, regard­
less of whether she played bas­
ketball. 
"I loved the sense of family 
unity here," said Liebscher. 
"Regardless of the scholar­
ship, I wanted to come here be­
cause I've always been 
impressed with the people and 
the sense of tradition here." 
"But now that I'm here I 
can't leave without trying to 
vincing losses to Michigan ( 8-1) and Northwestern (7-2). Bayliss believes that those two matches played a role in Notre Dame's first victory of the season. "They definitely helped," said Bayliss. "When you play a team that is a step down from those you've played, you feel more confi­dent. We weren't afraid of this team having played two of the better teams in the country." 


The Observer 1 John Studebaker 

Sara Llebscher's consistent play has helped the Notre Dame wo­men's basketball team to a 12-5 record thus far and will be a factor In tonight's conference game against Detroit on the road. 
improve my play and in the process, hopefully add more and more to the team." 
Liebscher will get the chance to help the Irish tonight as the team takes on Detroit on the road. 
Notre Dame won in their first meeting, 76-67, with the help of Liebscher's ten rebounds, and the Irish will try to keep their MCC record perfect by tallying a seventh conference victory. 
"We won't try to do anything different," said McGraw. 
"We'll have to contain them on the inside and pack in the zone, but other than that, our press was very effective last time and we'll probably use it against Detroit." 

MARKET OPINION RESEARCH HIRING TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS (No Sales) PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
Qualifications: type 25 WPM, enjoy talking with people, available for evenings and weekend shifts. No research experience needed, computer training included $4.00-$12.00 I hour 
121 s. Niles Ave. Emporium Bldg. 2nd fl. 219-282-2754 
CPA Review INTRODUCTORY SESSION TODAY, FEBRUARY 2 
6:30-7:30 CCE 
All other sessions will be held in Room 122 Hayes-Healy on the campus of NOTRE DAME Regular sessions begin February 7, 1989 
The only lrtsh loss of the day 

came at the No.2 position. John....;9..;1..;4;.;/7"'"7.;3..;-9;.4;.,;0;.;6_____J1==============================d 



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Jerks 

STUDENT UNION BOARD
M 
0 
COMEDY ZONE Thursday: 
Friday:

SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL 
v 
e/rt Saturday 
"'~~n~
I 

.~~ Koli~A~ "' . 
:> li
E .:'l~ ~~.:""· _,.r-~ ~)' 
X . 
Steve Seagren Mark Reedy 
-...,.-.._-? '~ ~ ' . 
Thursday 9 pm in Theodore's

s l"'i 
All Shows 8 and 1 0 

Thursday , February 2, 1989 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
8 a.m. A day-long seminar on Successfully Treating Children with Depressive Disorders by Barry Gardinkel, at Moreau Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College. 
4:15p.m. Cushwa Center lecture "The Black Catholic Com­munity Prior to the Civil War," by Cyprian Davis, Saint Meinrad College, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
7:30 p.m. Nettie Jones reading her novel Mischief Makers, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, sponsored by the English Depart­ment, Black Studies, and the Year of Cultural Diversity. 8 p.m. Lecture on "The Functions of Music in Shakespeare's Plays Othello and Twelfth Night," by Miriam Gilbert, Res­burgh Library Auditorium. 
CAMPUS 
6:30p.m. Mandatory meeting for Volunteers for the Homeless Club, Grace Hall pit. New members welcomed. 7 p.m. Interdenominational Bible study sponsored by the In­terVarsity Christian Fellowship, in 317 Lewis. 7 p.m. Right to Life Meeting to discuss second semester ac­tivities, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. 
7:30 p.m. Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 8 p.m. Basketball vs. Marquette, JACC. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Gyro Sandwich Turkey Cutlet 
Veal Marengo Pork Sukiyaki 
Pork Loin Filet of Turbot 
Stuffed -Shells Deli Bar 

COMICS 
Bloom County 
The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 His pen name 47 City on the Rio was Jonathan Grande 
1 Sturdy trees Oldstyle 49 Lower Slobbovia 


5 Dessert for 26 Phooey! resident ice-cream lovers 
28 Meantime 52 Deadly 10 Black and White· 

55 Jewish teacher 
32 Colette novel: 14 Third of a nonet 1920 56 Overused 

15 Migratory 34 Part of AC/DC 58 E.H. tale rea workers in the beggar's
35 Reply often 

30's reformation?
heard in June 16 Escapade 
61 Say nay 
36 E.H. tale of the 

62 Pulitzer novelist 17 EH tale rea visit Kennedy and family 
to the Vatican? dynasty? (with "The") 

63 Seafood morsel 
40 Musical talent 
64 Impresses20 Pesach event 41 Elba, to 
greatly 21 "The Purloined Napoleon 

65 Kind of crayonLetter" author 42 Handbell 66 Actress Daly 
sounds
22 Place for a serial no. 43 Make bootees 23 Combustion 46 Proceed residue vigorously 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


WOIU~ 7 NO.. I kNOW, 
I'LL CALl MY t<.ICH UNCLF WAll, L£ T-'S ROB A BANK! NO . . ~ I<Now. W£ CAN 
M.( K~ OUR, OWN MOIJ[Y 
L-JITH A X£ROX MAcH WE 1 
NO. LEl ·~ Wi/11 TH£' lOTTO 
AND THEN­

10 Kind of hammer 
-:t-:::+::t:-1 11 Certain mah­jongg player ~=+=~ 12 No-smoking 
spot, for one 
• 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
DOWN 

1 Some Siouans 2 Van Gogh lived here. 3 Familiar form of address 4"-baen sleepiRg in my bed" 5 Good, to 
Georges 6 Giraffes' kin 7 Lesser-known 8 Torments; 
harasses 9 Erhard's therapy 
13 Keel's alter part 32 Scorch 50 Willy's companion
18 Maestro 33 Long sandwich · Toscanini 51 Hindu life 
'34 Taproom quaff 
principle19 Tinge 36 P.l. 

52 Type of bean 25 As a whole 

37 Hyde, to Jekyll 
53 Millay's "­21 More minuscule 
38 Theater district Figs From 29 Adventurer's 
Thistles"

39 Affect mutually 
delight 54 London gallery 
44 Mild cigars 
30 Mid-month, in 57 Salinger girl 
45 Robust
old Rome 59 U.S. 46 Toaster's glass servicewoman
31 Crooks' 
patterns, for 48 Swedish Nobelist 60 Noted literary 
short in Physics: 1912 monogram 

Cl 1980 Ct1romcle Features Distributed by Universal Press Syndicate 2-2. 
"For 12 perfect years I was a car chaser. Pontlacs, Fords, Chryslers .... I took them all on ... and yesterday my stupid owner backs over me In the driveway." 
/ 

,Sports
page 16 Thursday , February 2, 1989 
Wrestlers capture 7th win over MSU 
By GREG record to 26-3 while recording SCHECKENBACH his team leading fourth techni­
cal fall. 
Sports Writer 
In the most exciting match 

Last night in the Joyce ACC of the evening, senior Pat Boyd Arena, 13th-ranked Notre stunned the third-ranked Dame humbled a well­wrestler in the country at 142 conditioned Michigan State pounds, 3-2. Boyd, who is com­team 31-12 to win their seventh ing off a knee injury, won in dual meet in eight tries. Notre the final twenty seconds with a Dame tired out the over­spectacular takedown of Mic­matched Michigan State squad higan State's Stacy Richmond. by recording three major deci­This victory put the Irish up for sions and two pins. good at 12-4. 
Notre Dame started off "This is a confidence builder quickly at the 118-pound divi­for the remainder of the sion where junior Andy Raden­season," said Boyd. "It was 
baugh recorded his team also a good tune-up for the 
leading 29th win by a score of Oklahoma match this The Observer I John Studebaker 
14-5. After a takedown inside of weekend." 
Pat Boyd helped the Notre Dame wrestling team the third-ranked wrestler in the country 3-2, in 
ten seconds, Radenbaugh "Boyd's win set the stage for 
capture Its seventh win last night, as he upset the team's 31-12 drubbing of Michigan State. 
never looked back in posting the following matches," stated . 
his· seventh major decision of McCann. "It had a definite ef­match is by far the most im­when he was awarded one point Irish were up 31-8. 
the season. fect on the (Todd) Layton portant and we will be ready." for ride time after the final buz­The last two matches of the 
At 126 pounds, Marcus match." Mark Gerardi dominated his zer had sounded. evening were not good to Notre 
Gowens struggled the entire In the 150 pound division, match in recording a 15-3 Co-Captain Chris Geneser Dame. Pete Cahill, who was 
match in losing 11-0 to a more sophomore Todd Layton posted major decision. The match was pinned his opponent in only 1: 35 wrestling for the first time, lost 
experienced wrestler. This his seventh pin against a much never close as Gerardi just to win the 177 pound division. 15-1 and heavyweight Chuck 
made the score 4-4. slower Michigan State op­kept accumulating points. This After grabbing numerous Weaver never got started in a 
Senior Co-Captain Jerry ponent. brought tht! team score to 22-4 takedowns, Geneser listened to 10-1loss. 
Durso destroyed his opponent "I just kept putting the pres­in favor of the Irish. his teammates and coach and Friday night, Notre Dame 
29-11 in a definite mismatch. sure on him until he gave up," At 167 pounds, Todd Tomazic decided to pin Ray Heisler with will travel to Norman, Okla­
Durso improved his season exclaimed Layton. "This next squeaked by with a win 4-3 relative ease. At this point the homa to wrestle . 
Irish ready to 
Men's tennis wins take on rival 
on road over WMU 
Marquette 

By BOB MITCHELL four of nine matches were 
Sports Writer decided in three sets. ~y GREG GUFFEY "I was most pleased with the Sports Writer After playing the 11th and way everybody fought," said 18th-ranked teams in the na­Bayliss, who holds the sixth 
Some might expect Notre 

tion, Notre Dame men's tennis best winning percentageDame to be tired and sluggish team was glad to take the court among active collegiate
against Marquette tonight in against unranked Western Mic­coaches. "The longer a match 
the Joyce ACC. After all, it's higan. The 0-2-Irish squad bet­went on the better we fought."
the third game in five days for tered their record to 1-2 by The battle of the No. 1 seeds 
the Irish. overwhelming the Broncos, 8-1 was won by Dave DiLucia in 
But so far, Digger Phelps' in Kalamazoo. straight sets. DiLucia out­
strategy is working. Notre "We had better players than gunned Western Michigan's
Dame has picked up crucial Western Michigan," said Head Greg Winchester, 6-4, 6-3. 
wins over Temple and Dayton, Coach Bob Bayliss. "Its always "David zeroed in on his big
and Phelps has been able to great to get a win on the road. serve," said Bayliss. "David 
keep the team relatively fresh Travelling causes a team make keep hitting balls at his feet and 
and rested. great adjustments." Winchester couldn't handle 
Tuesday night against the them."
The Observer I Trey HeymOna On paper, the Irish victoryFlyers, Phelps used a balanced The Notre Dame men's tennis team tallied its first victory of the looks rather convincing but in Brian Kalbas, the senior cap­attack, with 9-of-11 players season to bring its record to 1-2 with a 8-1 win over Western Mic­reality the dual match was tain and No.2 player, earned 
higan in Kalamazoo, Mich. Bob Mitchell details the action at right. closer than the score indicates, 
see PHELPS, page 11 see KALBAS, page 14 

... 
You read it here first: Sooners will take it all 
Now that we're unofficially halfway through an­other frenzied season of NCAA basketball, it's time to look back at some stunning developments and ahead to possible Final Four contenders. 
First of all, I picked Oklahoma preseason to take it all (honest, you can ask both of my friends), and I'm going to stand by that call. Mookie Blaylock doesn't get half the credit he deserves, probably because Stacey King is always on the floor with him. And the supporting cast isn't shoddy either. Last year, ,this team needed seasoning--this year the Sooners have gelled and have a score to settle. 
Second, if Boston College somehow wins the Big East conference tournament, we may actually see every team in that conference in the Final64. Think about it: Pitt, at .579, has the lowest overall winning percentage among the nine teams (outside of BC's .471), and the Panthers own wins at ranked Syracuse, Seton Hall, and home against No.1 Okla­homa. By the way, Boston College has the confer­ence's leading scorer. You never know. 
Upsets are so frequent that the term is becoming obsolete. Alaska-Anchorage, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Cal-Riverside and, yes, Valparaiso have all had their days in the sun after enduring years of door­mat status. It's incredible that 5-12 Valpo, which competes in the brutal Association of the Mid­Continent Conference, can beat the Irish and then lose to Northern Iowa by 18, but it happens. It is the beauty of college hoops. 
P9 t9 
Sk"k 
I 0 · t t S rt Ed"t
A 

• -•S•S•Is_a•n--p·O-S--I•O•r------·· 
Used to be, a top ten squad like Illinois could look past a trip up the road to Evanston to face anemic Northwestern. Now the Wildcats take the Illini to the wire before folding. There are no gimmes. One of these years, the Ivy League representative in the Tournament is going to topple the No. 1 seed in some regional. Just watch. · 
As far as what lies ahead, look for Syracuse to rise from the ashes like no other team in recent memory. Think the Orangemen remember confer­ence losses to Pitt, Connecticut, St. John's and Vil­lanova? They play each of those teams (three at home) in the next two weeks. Derrick Coleman and Sherman Douglas will wreak havoc, and Syracuse will be the hottest team entering the Tourney. 
Just a plug for a small school in Pennsylvania that might just do some damage: Robert Morris College is running roughshod over the mighty Northeast Conference, has a 15-4 overall record, and upset West Virginia in the Mountaineers' (15-2, 9-0 in the Atlantic 10) home opener. RoMo, which plays its home games in front of capacity, 1;000-fan crowds, will make the tournament and could upset. 
Other teams to watch: Cal-Santa Barbara (15-2),Missouri (at 18-3, the Tigers have one of the best in the country in Byron Irvin) and Florida State {16-1). Missouri might actually win a game or two in the Tournament for a change, as will the Gauchos and the Seminoles. Pretenders: LaSalle {15-4, 7-1 in the Metro Atlan­tic) looks good with All-American candidate Lionel 
Simmons averaging 30 points and 11 rebounds a game, but don't expect much from the Explorers. They're in trouble out of conference. 
I don't know what it is, but I don't think the Big Ten is as impressive as it lets on. There are a lot 
. see NCAAs, page 12 





