Reality postponed 
Unseasonably warm weather
~~A~C~C~E~N~T~:~'W~h~e~e~l'~c~om~es~·~to~N~D~~~~~~~ki, continues today with a high near 45 and a low around 35 
tonight. Partly sunny this
IVIEWPOINT: Debates bring issues to NO . ~ 
afternoon. 

MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1989
VOL. XXII, NO. 75 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Afghan troops battle guerillas as Soviets leave 
Associated Press 
ALONG THE SALANG HIGHWAY, Afghanistan­
Afghan troops and Moslem guerillas fought for control of this highway Sunday as the So­viet army moved out what may have been the last convoy to leave Afghanistan by truck. 
A convoy of Soviet soldiers driving armored personnel carriers and trucks loaded with missile launchers and other equipment cruised through a Soviet bunker checkpoint as helicopter gunships hovered nearby, offering cover. 
Two ground-attack jets streaked overhead and then disappeared behind the snow­covered mountains just beyond the hills surrounding the capi­tal of Kabul. 
"This could be the last con­voy," said a Soviet diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity. He refused to elab­orate. 
In Pakistan, Western diplomats speaking on condi­tion of anonymity said that in the past week an average of 18 Soviet transport planes a day had landed and taken off from number reported the previous week. 

The aircraft deliver arms and food to the beleaguered city, then depart with hundreds of Soviet soldiers, the diplomats said. 
The Soviets sent about 115,000 troops into Afghanistan in December 1979 to prop up a Marxist government that seized power in a coup the pre­vious year. 
The Red Army began pulling out eight months ago under an agreement sponsored by the United Nations to end the nine­year intervention. 
Soviet diplomats in Kabul say the remaining 15,000 to 20,000 troops could be gone by the end of the week, about 10 days before the U.N. deadline. The remaining soldiers ap­parently were to leave on transport planes. 
The guerillas, known as Mujahedeen, are not a party to the U.N. agreement and have vowed to overthrow the Soviet­backed government of Presi­dent Najib once the Soviets are gone. 
l 
\·····~ 
' r
'\ ;, 


AP Pnolo 
As part of the Soviet military pull-out in Afganistan, gage on the tarmac before a military IL-76 transport a large group of Soviet civilians wait with their bag-plane Saturday at Kabul international airport. 

Kabul -more than twice the see AFGHAN, page 7 
JPW dinner seating arrangements changed due to inconsistent forms 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Staff Reporter 

Due to inconsistencies in seating requests, all previously held seating arrangements for the Junior Parents' Weekend dinner on February 18 are void. 
Juniors must now go to the Center for Continuing Educa­tion on Tuesday or Wednesday of this week from 2 p.m. to 10 
p.m. to arrange their seating. Students will be required to bring the IDs of all of the stu­dents with whom they wish to sit. 

"There were many inconsis­tencies on the seating requests, and this was the only way to resolve them," said Jennifer Amestoy, JPW dinner chairper­son. 
According to Amestoy, prob­lems arose when names of stu­dents were submitted on severaldifferentrequestforms that did not have identical seating arrangements. 
"We thought that we could resolve the problems over the phone, but apparently even then the students didn't know who they wanted to sit with," Amestoy said. . 
"Many students said they didn't care," she said, "but we didn't feel that it was up to us to decide who they should sit with." 
Amestoy said that requests for up to three adjoining tables would still be honored if all the necessary IDs are presented upon request. 
"Seating priority is still ac­cording to the date of payment, not the order in which students come on Tuesday and Wednes­day," said Amestoy. She added that three students will sit at each table and their requests will be ordered by the date of the latest student's payment. 
"We decided to go with this method (students bringing IDs in person) because it's the method that we used last year for Junior Parents' Weekend," Amestoy said. 
"We switched to the system 
see SEAT, page 7 

Iceberg Debates commence; goal is to 'focus awareness on different issues' 
By JEFF SWANSON News Staff 
In what organizers hope will create greater intellectual en­thusiasm at Notre Dame, all26 dorms and one off-campus team will begin competition in the new campus-wide Iceberg Debates today. 
"The focus is to raise aware­ness on different issues, not the competition itself," said Sorin Hall rector Joe. McKenna, chief organizer of the debates. 
All of the debates will deal with social issues, the first of which is "The content of Cath­olic social teaching is in con­flict with the current Republi­can Party platform." 
Student Body President Tom Doyle and Vice President Mike Paese decided to promote the Iceberg Debates after seeing the success of the Grace Hall debates, said McKenna. 
Doyle said that student gov­ernment has pushed for the debates to promote an aware­ness on social justice and to bring bigger issues to the at­tention of the campus. "We have committed ourselves to improving the intellectual life on campus and the debates are a way to do this," Doyle said. 
"We want people to know we're serious about the debates," Doyle said. He said that the Iceberg Debate pro­gram has been well thoughtout and well programmed. "It 
see ICEBERG, page 7 


Radon level OK in library, Nieuwland 
By KATHY RYAN News Staff Board of Health, was placed in the basement of Notre Dame's Depart­Nieuwland. After one year; ment of Risk Management the results were collected and Safety announced the and sent to be processed by results of radon tests per­the Indiana Board of Health, formed on Nieuwland Sci­which is currently tracking ence Hall and Hesburgh radon in areas across the Memorial Library. state, said Zerr. According to Bob Zerr, director of Risk Manage­A charcoal detector, used 
ment and Safety, the results in the basement of the li­indicated the levels of radon brary, costs around ten dol­in the library to be 1 pCM lars but is less accurate. and in Nieuwland to be . 7 "We mainly stick with the pCM. year long detector so we get Zerr said "4 pCM is EPA's a better average and indica­
(U.S. Environmental tion of radon levels," Zerr Protection Agency) action said. level. Below that level is safe." "The detectors have been 
Radon is an invisible, placed randomly," said odorless radioactive gas Zerr. Alpha Track Monitors that has been linked to lung were placed in the base­cancer. ments of the Student Health 
Zerr said radon, which Center, Haggar Hall, Galvin comes from the natural Life Science Center and Uni­breakdown of uranium, can versity Village in October of be found in high concentra­1988. In addition, one month tions in soils and rocks con­monitors will be placed in taining uranium, granite, Fisher and Keenan Halls shale, phosphate, and next week. pitchblende or in soils con­taminated with certain If high levels of radon are types of industrial wastes. found in campus buildings, 
"We wouldn't expect to Zerr added, "We could take see high levels in this area," measures to increase the said Zerr. ventilation or any way to 
The Alpha Track Monitor, prevent gas from getting provided free by the Indiana into the building." 


page 2 
IN BRIEF 
Nathan Hatch, acting dean of the College of Arts and Letters and professor of history, has been awareded the Albert C. Outler Prize in Ecumenical Church history by the American Society of Church History. The award was announced at the society's annual meeting in December. The award is for Hatch's forthcoming book "The Democratization of American Christianity" (Yale Univer­sity Press, 1989). The prize, which consists of a $1000 cash award to the author, was established to encourage the critical study of ecumenical church history and to facilitate publication of such studies. The book is a study of religion and culture in the half century following the American Revolution. The book examines five distinct traditions or mass movements that emerged early in the nineteenth century: the Christian movement, the Met­hodists, the Baptists, black churches, and the Mormons. 
-The Observer 

OF INTEREST 
A logo contest is being held by An Tostal to design a logo for An Tostal. Entries.are due in the An Tostal box in the Student Union Board by 5 p.m. today. Up to $50 in cash prizes. Call Chris Murphy at 283-1204 for more infor­mation. -The Observer 
JPW seating arrangements previously made are now void due to inconsistencies in numerous responses. New seating arrangements will be made on Tuesday and Wednesday at the CCE between 2:00 and 10:00 p.m. Please bring ID's for everyone with whom you wish to be seated, maximum of 9 ID's per person. Call239-6028 between 7:00 and 9:00p.m. for more information. -The Observer 
Amnesty International will hold its first meeting of the semester today at 7:00p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. New members are encourged to attend. -The Observer 
Information night for the spring break Appalachia 
Seminar will be held Tuesday from 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. at 
the Center for Social Concerns. Places are still available. 
-The Observer 
Washington Seminar information night will be Tuesday from 7to 8 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. The seminar takes place over spring break. Places are still available. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's seniors, graduation housing applications are due April 21, 1989, but don't wait too long. -The Ob­server 
Volunteer opportunity in Latin America this summer as a public health volunteer in developing Latin American communities. Adventure, growth, possible college credit, and a chance to help. Learn about Los Amigos de Las Americas at a brief informational meeting at 8:00 p.m. Thursday at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
All juniors interested in working on the welcoming reception committee are invited to attend a meeting at 7:30p.m. Tuesday in the JPW office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, -The Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, former University president, will speak at Theodore's as part of the Hesburgh Program in Public Service tonight beginning at 7:30p.m. 
-The Observer 

Summer service project applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns for eight-week summer service projects. A tuition scholarship of $1,200 is granted to each participant. Interesting service opportunities all over the country are sponsored by Notre Dame alumni clubs. Room and board is provided. Application deadline 
..................................................~.............11 Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday Todayis Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up 
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 
11 
and WISh her a happy one. By the way ' Laura,we do expect to see you dancing 
LaFOrtUne 
on pool tables tomght. • 
t ............................-4 
+ SAINT MARY'S SAB PRESENTS: : 
is Feb. 1. -The Observer 
:. ~ Y) Q_r~­
1-----­

---------i: 

\....~(J l')r
0

~:;!~~=~~~--:= 
Typesettera ....................... Jim Mercurio Typilta ............................ Diana Bradley ........................................... Andy Schlidt ............................................. Will Zamer News Editor................... Matt Gallagher ND Day Editor ........... Jennifer Richards COflll Editor ......................... Greg Lucas Ads Designers .................... Mindy Breen Sport1 Copy EditOT............. Greg Guffey ............................................Molly Killen Viewpoint Copy EditOT ....... Kelly Golden ....................................... Shannon Roach Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi ................................... Mary Bridget Silk 
ne <MIIentl' (USPS S99 2.-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except duri111 exam and vacation periods. neOt.erftl' is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purcbu· ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writi111 ne Ot.erftl', P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana «iSS6. 
ne ~is a member of ne AIHdated Pial. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 
The Observer Monday, Janua~ 30, 1989 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Play on words can be a pun in the neck 
What's happuning? 

How was your break? Mine was crackerjack. Travel to Arizona for the Fiesta Bowl was a snap, and we didn't have to split for a week. 
Needless to say, the game was quite a ball, but I got a headache because our seats were so high. Must have been those mountain ears. I couldn't hear any cheers, either. Let's not skirt the issue: the cheerleaders were too far away. They should have been on de other side of de fense. 
The team sure did Rice to the occasion, though. 
I went skiing after the game--it was really quite a lift. The first run was really appoleing. We tried to avoid the moguls, but to snow aVail. 
There was a goggle of geese near the moun­tain, too. We had to duck to avoid getting hit. Sometimes skiing's for the birds. 
We thought we were Aspen for trouble when we tried the World Cup run. But we made the first jump and it was all downhill from there. (Good thing no one got hurt, because a funeral would have been too slalom.) And the hot choc­
... olate was the iceing on the cake, especially after having to jump my car. Back in Tempe we went golfing. We weren't . sure we wood, but we got the problems ironed out. I gave Steve a handicap--he was pretty green, and that was the only fairway to play. Ellen almost passed out from heatstroke. The game got pretty rough, but I was hooked by the end of the day. Golf isn't just a slice of life--it's the hole thing. I'd say "join the club.'-' We saw the Grand Canyon. It was really gorges. We couldn't see the hole canyon, though. After we ditched the car, we dug in our heels and stayed until the snow got too deep. We told Ellen that sex in the canyon would lead to orchasm. She believed us, since she's really gullyble. She finally figured out something was abyss. We drove through a national forest on the way back to Phoenix. Yew know, I'm glad we saw that. I would have pined away for it other­wise. It's knot everyday you see a national for­est. I feel like I have branched out my interests, like I've turned over a new leaf, like I went against the grain. And to think I almost axed that part of the trip. We saw lots of wildlife there, too. The brown furry things were deer to my heart, but the bigger one with antlers was more amooseing. The grizzly was a real bear, though, and his breath was unbearable. I'll never run into one 
• 


t () n 
+ \Vz//~·~~UABBTr 
'1 '""' 

i ~dy
• . ~·· .e. 
· · • _ iG'.o. w r .. . .\:~.L: 'PG_ I ~~~~:,:on;,.'::': II~'~ ~.r-~:~l 
SEATING IS LIMITED TO 350 AT EACH SHOWING SO GET THERE 
EARLY! WHY IS IT FREE? BECAUSE WE'RE A BUNCH OF NICE PEOPLE! 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE • ..........................~-4 

Mark Mclaughlin 
News Editor 

-k...A.r..:!"'~-..,.r 
in the forest again, knock on wood. 
We didn't have airline tickets home so our departure was up in the air. We stood united, as full-blooded americans, and demanded an eastern flight. The bill was sky-high and unfor­tunately our baggage flew northwest to the orient. But the tail end of the flight (after we flew over the delta) was a breeze. Once we got wind of the free drink policy, money was no objet. 
After I got home, someone broke into my car. That drove me nuts. I'm sick and tired of car theft. Then my insurance company gave me a bum steer: they're just spinning their wheels on the claim. Give me a brake. 
So now here I sit, typing in my column. I hope you support it--it's a pretty tall tale, after all. It should hold up under fire. The computer al­most lost this column. Must be a slipped disc, or maybe someone took a byte out of the cable. We should really screen our computer monitors more carefully. 
As this story went to press, Mark McLaughlin was placed under arrest, charged with 73 co.unts of assault with a deadly weapun. 
•

FREEl t
• i 
JAN. 3t-FEB.2 • 9PM & II PM 



~1~~:L~~~~D. 

• 

Monday, January 30, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Soviets: nuclear weapons in Cuba during Missile Crisis 


Associated Press 
MOSCOW -A Cuban official has disclosed that 270,000 So­viet and Cuban troops were ready to go to war with the United States during the 1962 Cuban missile crisis and that 100,000 casualties were ex­pected, former U.S. Defense Secretary Robert McNamara said Sunday. 
A soviet general confirmed for the first time that one-third of his country's nuclear war­heads designed to strike the United States were in Cuba at the time. However, he said the warheads had not been mounted on missile launchers and were not ready for firing. 
The revelations came during a review of the Cuban missile crisis at a conference over the weekend at a trade union cen­ter in southwest Moscow. 
Soviets and Americans have met before to discuss the Soviet deployment of nuclear missiles in Cuba and the U.S. response: a blockade of the island and a demand for the rockets' removal. 
But this was the first joint meeting with Cuban officials who guided their country through the crisis. Premier Nikita Khrushchev eventually withdrew the missiles in ex­change for President Ken­nedy's pledge not to invade Cuba. 
At a news conference wrap­ping up the conference Sunday, MeNamara said the figures on Cuba's war readiness and casualty estimate were pro­vided by Jorge Risquet, a mem­ber of Cuba's ruling Politburo. 
"They say they had armed 270,000 men. They were deter­mined to fight to the death of every man, and they believed there would be 100,000 Cuban and Soviet casualties," McNamara told reporters. 
Other A~erican officials said privately the Cubans had said the casualty count could have reached 800,000. Cuba's population at the time was 8 million. 
McNamara said that of the troops, 40,000 were Soviet, four times higher than U.S. intelli­gence estimates at the time. 

Risquet cited the figures to show his country seriously believed that a U.S. invasion of his island was imminent. McNamara said no such inva­sion was ever contemplated, but speaking of the Cubans, he added: "if I had been in their shoes, I would have believed the same thing." 
American officials have said they were never sure whether any Soviet nuclear warheads had actually reached Cuba but that they assumed they had. 
Col. Gen. Dmitri Volkogonov, director of the Defense Ministry's Institute of Military History, said that at the time of the crisis 20 Soviet nuclear warheads were in Cuba. Another 20 warheads were headed to the island aboard a Soviet ship that was caught in the U.S. naval block­ade, he said. 
He made the remarks in a closed session of the confer­ence Saturday, and they were reported to The Associated Press on Sunday by Raymond Garthoff, a State Department official at the time of the crisis. 
Join the consulting leader • 



ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO. 
Interviews to be held on February 10, 1989 
Please see the· Placement Office for details. 
Yugoslav Central Committee meets today 
Associated Press 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia-
Communist leaders are bit­
terly divided over how to end 
the nation's worst postwar 
crisis as they prepare for a his­
toric meeting of the policy­
making Central Committee, 
state-run media said Sunday. 
The meeting on Monday is expected to generate a show­down between rival factions and may result in sweeping personnel changes that will in­dicate whether the country will institute economic and demo­cratic reform. 
Sources close to the nine­member federal presidency, which also heads the armed forces, told The Associated Press that the presidency has warned emergency measures would be imposed nationwide if a compromise within the ruling elite is not reached. 

The state Tanjug news agency said that at the "his­toric" meeting the leaders "should concretely state their views about a series of delicate and open political problems, which have brought the Com­munist Party to the brink of its total split and the country to the most dramatic postwar period." 
Liberal factions in the ruling League of Communists face a hard-line coalition led by the president of Serbia's commu­nists, Slobodan Milosevic. 
The session of the party's Central Committee, which has about 160 members, is to dis­cuss calls for replacement of the country's Communist Party President Stipe Suvar, who Serbian leaders blame for the wide split within the party. 
The state-run media indi­cated that the confrontation is in fact the clash between two political and economic con­cepts of Yugoslavia's future de­velopment. 






ICEBERG DEBATES 








-
FIRST ROUND 9-10 P.M. 

" That the current Republican Party Platform is inherently in conflict with the content of Catholic Social Teac.hing " 

*Dillon Alumni 
*Badin Carroll 
*Farley Breen Phillips 
* Fisher Howard 
-*Planner I Grace I 
*Holy Cross Lewis 
*Keenan Stanford 
F A C U L 
*Grace II Pasquerilla East 
* Off-Campus Pasquerilla West 
*Pangborn Lyons 
* Hosting Halls 
T Y J U D G E S 
*Morrissey Sorin 
*St. Edwards Walsh 
*Knott Cavanaugh 
*Siegfried Zahm 

ROBERT BURKE  FREDERICK SYBURG  C.F. DELANEY  J. D'ARCY CHISHOLM  
ANGEL DELGADO  WILLIAM MC GLINN  JOHN J. GILLIGAN  ROGER SKURSKI  
JENNIFER WARLICK  TOM SWARTZ  JAMES FERGUSON CSC  ROBERT HOWLAND  


Monday, January 30, 1989 The Observer pageS 


A group of friends in Fairbanks, Alaska frolic in an degrees below zero. Schools were closed as wind outdoor hot tub on Friday where temperatures hit 43 chill readings plunged to 115 degrees below zero. 
Iran and Iraq to establish joint military committee; may help talks 
Associated Press Diplomats said the develop­want to speak about ment, also reported by official breakthroughs.'' 
BAGHDAD, Iraq-President Baghdad Radio, is a significant Saddam Hussein agreed Sun­breakthrough in U.N. efforts to Still, he said he was hopeful day to a U.N. proposal to set revive stalled peace talks to of new high-level talks. up a joint military committee end the eight-year gulf war. Diplomats in the Iraqi capi­with Persian Gulf rival Iran, a tal, who requested anonymity, 
U.N. envoy said. Eliasson told The Associated said a joint military group sig­
Mter a four-hour meeting Press after his negotiations in naled hopes of a troop with Saddam, U.N. envoy Jan Tehran and Baghdad that the withdrawal by both sides. The Eliasson said the Iraqi presi­agreements were "the two group could work with U.N. dent also agreed to lift a ban most concrete measures that military observers monitoring barring Iranian-bound civilian could improve the atmo­the Aug. 20 cease-fire, they flights from flying over Iraq. sphere," but added, "I don't said. 
Burger to receive $60,000 raise 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Warren Burger, who stepped down as chief justice of the United States in 1986 and hasn't heard a case since, stands to receive a $60,000-a-year pay raise be­cause he claimed status as a "senior judge" rather than full retirement. 
Burger is not alone. An addi­tional 305 senior judges also legally qualify for the active­duty pay raises according to administrative records ob­tained by The Associated Press that indicate one in five do no legal work. 
The title of senior judge, created by Congress in 1919, al­lows federal jurists to sharply reduce their caseload while still qualifying for active-duty salary increases. Federal judges are appointed for life, though they may choose to resign at any time. 
Most senior judges hear cases, but Burger says he doesn't have the time. By con­trast, since he followed Burger off the bench in 1987, former Supreme Court Justice Lewis Powell has served on the 4th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va., and next month will sit on the nth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Florida. 
Burger declined to answer questions about his impending pay increase and his judicial workload other than to say, "I'm too busy to sit." 
Most senior judges do sub­stantial work and as a group they handle between 10 and 15 percent of all federal cases. "Across the nation, the federal judiciary would be a mess withe out the help of senior judges," said Appeals Court Judge Frank Coffin. 
Receiving active-duty pay raises while accepting no cases may not seem equitable, but it is not unlawful. Whatever Congress actually expected of the senior judges, current statutes require nothing in return for the active-duty salary increases. 
"It doesn't seem fair," said Rep. Carlos Moorhead, a mem­ber of a House subcommittee overseeing the federal judiciary. The California Re­publican said Congress may want to study "establishing some minimum work to qualify for the raises." 
Dozens of senior judges ap­parently accept no cases, the AP has learned. 
A report compiled by the Ad­ministrative Office of the U.S. courts provides rare caseload data on senior judges. For the year ending June 30, 1987, the study showed that 56 of 271 senior judges, or 21 percent, handled no cases. Of the 56, 49 were over 75 years old. 
"If you did the survey today I don't think things would be much different," said David Cook, a statistician who put to­gether the report for the admin­istrative office. 
Stephen Gillers, professor of legal ethics at New York Uni­versity, said, "As a lawyer and law teacher I would be troubled if judges were being paid for doing nothing and getting increments for doing nothing unless Congress made a con­scious decision that even judges in total retirement should get pay raises." 
Congress did no such thing. Judges who retire by resigning receive pensions that equal their last year's salary, but not subsequent increases. If Burger had taken full retire­ment in September 1986, his an­nual pension would be $108,400. Instead, he received a 1987 in­crease to $115,000 and next month he stands to receive a 52 percent boost to $175,000, the salary earmarked for the sit­ting chief justice, William Rehnquist. 

~\..E. with special guest 
0~~~~ BROKEN HOMES SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4 8:00 PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM All seats reserved $15.50 Tickets available at the Civic Auditorium Box Office, Night Winds, Record Connection, and the usual outlets. 
----------~~ 


Introducing the new B. M. 0. C.-the big­gest Macintosh on campus: 
The Macintosh· IT computer. It's the per­fect roommate for power hungry students who do high speed computing, video pro­cessing, engineering or graphic design. 
ever built. Yet with all its sophistication, it still has the same point-and-click simplicity that Macintosh has become famous for. 
Which means, ofcou~e, the MacintoshII and you will be the perfect roommates: It cooks. And you up. 
Made with an open configuration that allows for special purpose boards, the Mac· II 

is the fastest, best performing Macintosh The power to your besf 


------~·---~------. --~----~-------~------------~-----~----~--~~------~------­
Monday, January 30, 1989 The Observer page7 
NEH: College humanities requirements increase little 
Associated Press Average increases in re­
WASHINGTON -Intense in­quirements for English and terest in revamping and ex­American literature, foreign panding college humanities re­languages and literature, quirements has translated into history and philosophy all to­little success in the past five taled .2 credit hours or less years, according to a study over the five-year period. released Sunday. 
The study sponsored by the "One would have hoped that National Endowment for the all the concern about curricu­Humanities found that students lum reform would have are only slightly more likely to resulted in more," said endow­have to take such courses in or­ment chairwoman Lynne der to graduate, and it is pos­Cheney. sible to bypass many signifi­cant fields of knowledge en Cheney said the one bright route to a degree. spot in the survey is that the 
number of schools letting stu-General requirements in the dents choose from a virtually humanities area rose an unlimited list of courses has 
The Obselver I Scott McCann
average of 1.5 hours from 1983-decreased. Only 13 percent of The fastest game In town 84 to 1988-89 -a 6.2 percent in­schools allow students to crease, according to the study choose from unlimited course The South Bend Mini Mites entertain the crowd at of Notre Dame's hockey game on Friday night.of course requirements at 496 offerings, down frorri 19 per-the Joyce ACC between the first and second periodscolleges and universities. cent five years ago. 
The highway, the only road looked bored. to the Soviet border, winds "How's everything going?"
Afghan Iceberg Seat
through mountains where the one Mghan officer was asked. 
continued from page 1

continued from page 1 rebels are waiting for the Red continued from page 1Army to complete its _"Very bad," he said. 
of including seating in the
On Sunday, rebels based in withdrawal. should be a class act," he said. 
reservations sent to the parents 
Pakistan reported Soviet bom­Earlier SuncMy, Mghan sol­There will be five rounds of because the CCE thought itbing and missile attacks along The Soviet Defense Minister, diers said, rebels fired on a con­competition with one round would be easier," Amestoy 
the Salang Highway. They Dmitri Yasov, ended two days voy of about 350 trucks carry­each week until spring break. 
said. "It didn't work." 

claimed 600 civilians had been of talks with Najib and other ing flour, eggs, diesel fuel, The winning hall will recieve Flyers were distributed to allkilled and more than 1,200 in­Mghan officials on Saturday, gasoline and other supplies $500 and the first runner-up juniors last night and postersjured. and completed plans for the $250. The Center for Social Con­were placed in all residence
pullout, said the Soviet down the highway to Kabul. cerns and student government 
halls to alert juniors of theOfficial Radio Kabul, moni­diplomat who refused to be in­One driver, an Mghan, was are funding the debates. 
changes in the seating proce­
tored in Islamabad, Pakistan, dentified. slightly injured by a bullet that The first round of the debates dure. 

$1998~ 
$2998~
SOUTH BEND ONLY 
Broadmoor Plaza 1111 E. Ireland Road 
291-4000 
$3998~ 
Hours: Take an additional S10 o(( the Mon & Thurs 
contact lens sale prices listed below with this coupon. .
9-8 Tues. Wed, Fri & Sat 
1 
9-6 1 ~/
.V Examinations Available -_.. •• .V No appointment I · 
necessary I ..J. Bring your Dr.'s Rx IBausch&LomborSoftmate --J Let us duplicate your 1ciearDa!lyorExtendedWear 
current glasses 
Preferred Vision ProviderSM :k':nJ:~~=-8~ 
program-Metropolitan 1or Softmate Bonly. PAIRS 
1 


1 Conbd lms eye = requlrrsl. Care kit not lncludtd. Some pl'm 1 nslrlcllons apply. Cwpon must be !l'es!!lled I! l1me oC order.
L-----------------J 
said Sunday night that Mghan grazed his leg, they said. will take place from 9: 00 to troops had carried out "suc­At a Soviet checkpoint about 10:00 p.m. today at hosting cessful military operations" 12 miles north of Kabul on Sun­When asked what would hap­dorms. The next four rounds with civilians who want to keep day, Mghan soldiers paced pen when the Soviets are gone, will be held on the next four the 260-mile Salang Highway nervously along the highway. and officer said: "the Mondays at 9:00 p.m. A con­open. Soviet soldiers in the convoy Mujahedeen.'' solation round will be held next 
Monday for the losing teams. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 


-~~-------_...-----~~---·-· ----·· --­
r---~----------~------~~--~~--------~---------~ 
Viewpoint
pa_ge 8 Monday, January 30, 1989 
Debates incite a· questioning of values 
The Notre Dame student population Democratic Party should not only know the world does not just end where one We as Notre Dame students are a spe­is 92 percent Catholic. Many Notre where the party stands on gun control sets foot off the campus. There are cial breed. Most of us graduated from Dame students voted for Bush in the or abortion, but the philosophy deter­things worse than failing one's physics high school at the top of our classes. presidential election last November. mining that party stance. exam, for example, problems like apar­All benefit from a quality education But although the overwhelming Issues are important in themselves theid and world hunger, and the break­while here on this campus, and when majority of ND students consider them­to be sure, but even more so for the down of the environment. Although we graduate likewise hold a special po­selves both Republican and Catholic, way they illustrate the underlying these problems may not affect us di­sition in society. We are ~omorrow's very few actually know what the Re­values they represent. Anyone could rectly, they merit our consideration leaders. As such, we have the respon­publican Party stands for, or what say, for example, that both the Repub­and thought, especially if, by labeling sibility to know for what and for whom 
values the Catholic Church upholds. lican Party and the Catholic Church op­ourselves as Catholic, Republican, or we stand. pose abortion, but that does not neces­Democrat, we are going to take a Tonight's Iceberg Debate represents ·sarily mean that the two institutions stance on how to solve these problems, an opportunity for all students to take
Cindy Petrites 
uphold identical value systems. After or decide not to face them at all. that responsibility. It will not make up all, one could just as easily cite issues These labels--Catholic, Republican, your mind for you, but it will challenge 
guest column 
where the Church and the Republican Democrat--are comfortable ones. They you to think about what you represent, 
Party disagree, i.e. capital punishment put us into socially acceptable which may not be what you thought it "Is the content of Catholic social teach­and nuclear arms proliferation. categories and give us the security of was. ing inherently in conflict with the cur­The fundamental question here is a ready-made point of view. But blind I strongly encourage everyone to at­rent Republican party platform?" is then, what fundamental values un­support of any party is no substitute for tend. the subject of tonight's Iceberg Debate. d~rlie the positions these groups take? making up one's own mind. Moreover, But the debate addresses another issue Are the philosophies guiding these in­labels are meaningless if you don't Cindy Petrites is a junior majoring in as well: Just how much do we really stitutions inherently in conflict? If so, know what they represent. American Studies. know about the things we profess to the implications for many on this believe? campus could be serious. 
To skim the surface of issues and Tonight's Iceberg Debate, though it choose a religion or political party involves a hot1 controversial topic, is 
P.O. Box Q
based on personal likes and dislikes is not aimed at pointing any fingers, 
I

how many people decide. Others let branding a particular political philoso­their parents choose for them, or join phy as anti-Catholic, or creating con-­tina, Bangladesh, Chile, and Kenya that 
Student cites Fast
the biggest crowd. That's not being Re­flict simply for conflict's sake. It is a are helping people to feed themselves publican. That's not being Catholic. means to stimulate thought. as a worthy cause 
and to better their existance. That's being lazy. On on a campus such as ours it is The question is always asked, "Why 
Those who profess to be Catholic have frighteningly easy for students to close Dear Editor: does University Food Services only the responsibility to know what the themselves off from the outside world "No way, I need my lunch." I wish I donate one dollar per lunch when they Church stands for, and if they disagree and restrict themselves both physically had a dollar for every time I have heard charge me four dollars if I forget my with the Church's views, to find out the and mentally to this green little that type of response during the past ID?" By charging that sum. the Uni­
versity attempts to discourage "forgot­
reasons behind the Church's position. microcosm under the Golden Dome's three years when I have been signing Those who support the Republican or shadow. Apathy is an easy way out, but up people for the Wednesday Lunch ten IDs." Moreover, the food itself costs 

Fast. The Fast is a program in which students agree to give up their dining hall lunch on Wednesday. Then, Uni­versity Food Services donates a dollar for every lunch that is skipped-. It's sad that people who have always had more than enough to eat can really think that missing one of their 21 meals a week is such a big deal. 
"Miss lunch?" people say. "I'll get hungry." They probably will. Going hungry for a few hours a week is the sacrifice being asked from us, and, as students, we don't have time to worry about it. But the Fast doesn't ask for our time; it only asks that we give a little of ourselves, always knowing that at 4: 45, there will be plenty of spaghetti in the dining hall to fill up on again. This knowledge that food will be avail­able in a few hours is a luxury that millions of people don't have. These are the type of less fortunate people who benefit from fasters' generosity. The money collected from the Fast at the end of the semester goes towards grass roots development agencies in Argen-University Food Services roughly one dollar per lunch served. The rest of the cost is attributed to overhead, such as employee wages, equipment, and utilities. Mr. Hickey is not making money from the Fast. Instead, Univer­sity Food Services is taking on extra bookwork to help a very good cause. So, please don't use this as an excuse for not helping. 
On Feb. 1, the Wednesday Lunch Fast will begin. It will last the entire semes­ter, except for finals week. I would like to ask those of you who have been faith­ful fasters in the past to continue your generosity this semester. And to those who've never fasted, I'd like to ask you to try it. Skip one lunch and see if you can continue. It's not necessarily going to be easy, but it's a sacrifice well worth making. If you're willing to give of yourself, please sign up in the dining halls or your dorm this week. Thank you for your concern and caring. 
Ron Burkhart ND World Hunger Coalition Jan. 24, 1989 
YOU'V8 8£5&N U5T!JN/N6 7V 7H8 8.4550 PROFUNW OF IJe.4R OW t::¥/1?, REt13NTl-YANOINT&/) COMMUNICATIONSIJIRECI{)<fOI< 
7H& R.IJ. REYNOlDS COMPAAN! 
I 
Garry Trudeau 
YOU KNOW, {)A{), TH/5 
II £X) YOU FAVOR 
POLL-(f)NT!?A{)fCTS OH, 5Uf?&,
f£5TAP0-57Yl& 
13Vl3RY 07HE5R SURV&Y W8{{)(JW
POtiC/3 TACTICS
IN R&CENT Y&t~RS. MIND QU11313t&
TOPR&V&NT
IFI TAl<& A LOOk? OV£3R
9MOKIN61N 
tf.ORI?ING...

PUEJL.tc~·
I 
I 

Quote of the Day 
"Happiness makes up in height for what it lacks in length." 
Robert Frost 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  EdltOr·m·Ctuel Managmg Ed1tor  .. Chris Murphy Chns Donnelly  Business Manager Adverflsmg Des•gn Manager  John Oxnder Molly K1llen  
News Editor  Regts Cocc•a  Adverttsmg Manager  L1nda Goldschmidt  
The Observer IS !he Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of  News Edttor  Mark Mclaughlin  Productton Manager  Bernadene Sh1fts  
Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of  Vtewpomt Edtto.  .... Dave Bruner  · Systems Manager  Mark R1dgeway  
the adminiStration of e1ther 1nSt1tut10n The news IS reported as accurately and ObJectively as  Sports Ed•tor  Marty Strasen  Controller  Todd Hard1man  
possible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the matonty of the Ed1tonal Board  Accent Edttor  Beth Healy  Graphtc Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column ·present the v1ews of their authors. Column  Samt Mary·s Edttor  Sandy Cenmele  
space IS available to all members of the cornmun1ty and the free expression of vary1ng  Photo Ed1tor  M1chael Moran  
op1n10ns on campus. through letters. IS encouraged  Founded November 3,1966  




~-----------------~--~--------------­
Accent
Monday, January 30, 1989 
page 9 

'Wheel of Fortune' Wants You! 

W
hat goes around comes is even more reason for with a genuine spirit of en­around. Now it is Notre everyone to try out. thusiasm, a sense of humor, Dame's turn to spin the big Interviews will take place and a knowledge of how to wheel. Students will have a on Friday, February 3 at play "Wheel of Fortune" ef­chance to buy vowels, guess Theodore's. Doors will open fectively. Mter fourteen puzzles and even cheer as at 1:00 p.m., and the first one years on daytime television Vanna presents the showroom hundred people in line will be and six years on at night, full of valuable prizes for admitted. · "Wheel of Fortune" presents real. Those competitors will par-contestants with a high level 
of game-playing skills. Thus, this search will seek students with a high level of "Wheel­
JOE BUCOLO 

playing know-how." 
The taping of all five of the
To Be Continued . .. 
"College Week" games will take place on Saturday, April 8 in Burbank, California. 
On Friday, February 3, ticipate in a 15-puzzle compe­"Wheel of Fortune" will not "Wheel of Fortune," the tition similar to that seen on provide travel arrangements highest-rated game show in the show. Puzzles will fall or places to stay; however, television history, will con­into the categories of "per­the show is currently contact­
duct a contestant search right son," "place," and "thing." il)g California-based alumni here on campus. The search Those conducting the search groups from all four univer­is open to all students, fac­will present a puzzle with a sities to help defray the costs. ulty, and members of the ad­few consonants revealed. No air date has been set for ministration. They will continue to place this "College Week." 
letters until someone solves 
The purpose of the search the puzzle. The competition The "College Week" com­received during this round the daytime or nighttime ver­is to gather a team of four will continue until only four petition will take place on the will become the property of sion. Of course, all travel ex-. students to compete in an up­players remain. Those four nighttime "Wheel" starring the universities. "Wheel" has penses will be the responsibil­coming "College Week." Also will constitute the offical Pat Sajak and Vanna White. given away over $600,000 in ity of the contestants. competing in the special week Notre Dame "Wheel of For­The four teams will compete cash and prizes during the The best practice for the of "Wheel" will be students tune" team. The whole selec­in the first four games. Stu­past nine "College Weeks." competition is daily viewing from the Universities of Okla­tion process is expected to dents will keep any cash and Those chosen to be contes­of "Wheel of Fortune." Smart homa, Miami, and Hawaii. take anywhere from two and prizes they win during these tants individually on regular playing and a perky personal­Those who try out and do not a half to three hours. first four games. The top episodes of the show will be ity will transform some lucky make the team may be cho-, three teams after the fourth notified by mail. They will Domers from "Wheel sen to compete on a regular "Wheel" representatives game will progress on to the receive a one year eligibility Watchers" to "Wheel episode of "Wheel," so there are looking for contestants fifth game. Any prizes to apoear on the show--either Players." 

The lighter side of Wall Street 
BETH HEALY Tess McGill (Melanie Grif­whenever she comes on­Tess is hopeful. But when good,intentions pay off for a accent editor fith), is a secretary who is screen. Her magenta eyes­Katherine breaks her leg and comical and interesting twist. 
P 
working in New York's · hadow, spiked heels, constant Tess must manage the office, erhaps the recent stock · broker1rge industry. She is gum-smacking and shrill. New Tess learns that Katherine The enjoyable part of this market crash scared striving to break from the Jersey accent are enough to has not really regarded their movie is watching Melanie filmmakers, but whatever the stagnant secretarial pool and make any conscientious boss relationship on a teamwork Griffith unfold Tess' charac­reason, Twentieth Century escape from the low pay and cringe. But like Tess, her level. Tess, like Michael J. ter into a gutsy, intelligent Fox's new film "Working endless commutes on the sense of humor and underly­Fox in "Secret of My Suc­woman in the business world. Girl" avoids the pessimism of Staten Island Ferry. Job after ing intelligence can only shine cess," takes the opportunity Although Ford and Weaver the 1986 hit "Wall Street" and job, Tess is plagued by bosses if allowed. of an absent boss to test her play supporting roles, all treats business with a touch who fail to take her seriously The subject of this film is abilities as an executive. three characters balance well of humor. "Working Girl" and respect her dream to ordinary people doing ordi­with Tess' subtle personality. takes a different look at the move up in the company-­nary jobs, like clerical skills. Tess is successful, but she busniess world: instead of respectfully. To top it off, she But the film also learns that she must shed her "Working Girl" takes a focusing on the men who discovers her boyfriend with demonstrates something that secretarial image and find a look at Wall Street business move up the corporate ladder one of her friends and she many bosses don't realize and bit of class in her act. In the at an understandable and and are in charge, this film must find a new place to live. all secretaries do--the meantime, she befriends Jack down-to-earth level. Unlike looks at the women who are Tess' best friend, Cyn (Joan secretaries most likely know Trainer (Harrison Ford), who "Wall Street" the characters really the heart of the opera­Cusack from "Broadcast how to do what the bosses are is unaware of her are everyday people who find tion. News"), is so outrageous that doing, just from watching and masquerade, but who treats humor in themselves and also 
The film's main character, you can't help but smile taking care of details day her as an experienced and admit to making mistakes. after day. Like many other respected businesswoman. An Without all of the broker jar­people in her position, Tess interesting love triangle gon and drugs, "Working realizes that she can do bet­develops, which can only Girl" approaches this Ameri­ter and, if given the chance, prove to complicate further can scene in (hopefully) a she can make it in the busi­her situation with Katherine more patriotic way: the busi­ness world. if her plot is discovered. ness people enjoy their work 
Predictably, she is found and notice more than just 
When her fourth boss, Kat­out and she realizes that she money. And unlike many herine Parker (Sigourney must face up to her mistakes. films of the eighties, this one Weaver), tells Tess that their But what she has done has centers around down-to-earth relationship is not just boss not gone unnoticed. In this people with everyday prob­and secretary, but a team, film, unlike "Wall Street," lems. 
Calvin and Hobbes 

Bill Watterson 
1111\t.N 11\E 5\JN COM£5 0\JT, 1\.\E ONE'S I. 
... 
l'I.L Wf>.K\\ nll\R FEM\JRES PE.All.Y \it<1t: SlOWL~ ME.LT ~t-.1 ~£\R ARt. SMALL ,<:::fJ DR\PP\t-.IG &:JOlES UNTIL Ulti'Rt TWi'.fU. <:IJ 
r 
1-lC:lT\\ING IN\ I"{CJS£5 AND FAS'ltR. E~ES Rnf>.TING IN I'J()LS Cf WMt.R. 
\

.,;::'f 
' \
-,____ ""'\
-

lfRil-I . 3 0 


----~·--~-~~~-~~~--~-­
page 10 The Observer Monday, January 30, 1989 
unable to hold a lead after Pervis Ellison was injured, fell to No. 17 Ohio State 85-79 Sun­day. 
Earlier this week, No. 1 Illi­nois and No. 2 Georgetown lost. Louisville's defeat left No. 4 Oklahoma as a possible succes­sor at the top. 
Ellison, the team's leading scorer and rebounder, sprained a ligament in his left knee while scrambling for a loose ball just before halftime. Dr. Rudy Ellis, Louisville's physician, said he would deter­mine the extent of Ellison's in­jury Monday. 
"He has good motion and there is no fluid on the knee. I'm optimistic about his condi­tion," Ellis said. 
Duke, 92, Clemson 62 
Danny Ferry and Quin Snyder led a 32-5 spurt as Duke broke a three-game losing streak by beating a team with­out six players suspended for one game for what was called "violation of basketball team policy regarding academic study hall rules." 
But they gave the Blue Devils a battle for 16 minutes, trailing just 30-28 despite missing two starters, center Elden 
,-..­
Campbell and guard Marl.on Cash, and top reserves Dale Davis and Tim Kincaid. 
Michigan 99, Purdue 88 
Glen Rice scored 20 first-half points, including three 3-point shots, sparking No. 10 Mic­higan past Purdue in their na­tionally televised Big Ten game Sunday. 

DURHAM, N.C;~~With time waning and eighth-ranked Duke ~~~~g up a pfg, score on Clemson, the cry. went out: ttwe want the water boy!" ·. ·. 
No, the Tigers weren't looking for last-minute sip. The Duke crowd wanted to see Clemson assistant trainer Den· nis Hopf, who on Sunday became a Tiger reserve player following the suspension of six players because of violation of academic study hall rules. · 
The suspended 'Pli!yers~ including starters Elden Campbell and Marion Cash, and reserves Dale Davis and Tim Kincaid, sat on the bench during the game, and were not available for comment afterwards. But Hopf, one of the seven who remained, had a lot to say. 
''Friday afternoon, I was getting dressed, getting ready to go to practice and coach (Don} Hogan called me up and asked me bow would I like to play against Duke? I about passed out,n Hopf told reporters in the Clemson lockerroom. 
"I just said yeah. I was at the gym before he could hang · up the phone," he said. 
With two minutes left to play, Hopf arose from the decimated Clemson bench, took off his warmup and went into the lineup, bringing a roar from what was left of the crowd at the 92-62 victory. Hopf had specific instructions to shoot because Coach Cliff Ellis had told the other four players to make sure Hopf got the ball. 
"I couldn't believe he said that. That's just the greatest thing he could have done," he said, "To give me a shot like that is just a fantasy. He really made somebody's fantasy come true." 
O'Meara wins tourney with putt on final hole 
Associated Press 

PEBBLE BEACH, Calif.-­Mark O'Meara made a 6-foot birdie putt on the final hole and scored a one-shot vic­tory Sunday in the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. 
O'Meara's winning putt finished off a round of 70 and made Tom Kite a disap­pointed runner-up for the second time in as many months on the Pebble Beach Golf Links. 
O'Meara, who hadn't won on the PGA tour for four years, captured the fourth title of his career with a 277 total, 11 shots under par. 
The victory, his second in this unique event, was worth $180,000 from the total purse of $1 million. 
Kite, who lost a playoff in the rich Nabisco Champion­ships at Pebble Beach in No­vember, had a share of the top spot and was standing by the 18th green when O'Meara's winner found the cup. 
Kite finished with a 69 and a 278 total. 
There was little consola­tion in the $108,000 check for second place, which lifted him into third place on the all"time money-winning list. He now trails only Jack Nick­laus and Tom Watson. 
"Finishing second for the second time is tougher. It really hurts," Kite said. 
He singled out a string of three consecutive bogeys, on the seventh through ninth holes, as "where I lost the golf tournament." 
Two of those three bogeys came on three-putt greens. 
"Ludicrous," Kite said. 
He brought it back to tie O'Meara, and once went 
ahead with an eight-foot birdie putt on the 14th hole. 
O'Meara, playing behind him, responded with an even better approach that set up a two-foot putt that tied it again. 
It remained that way until O;Meara's 18th hole putt made Kite a runner-up again. 
Nick Price of Zimbabwe, who shared the third-round lead with O'Meara, shot 73 and dropped back into a tie for third at 280 with Jim Carter and Masters cham­pion Sandy Lyle. Lyle had a closing 68,..Carter 69. 
The group at 281 included Lanny Wadkins, Hal Sutton, Steve Pate and defending champion Steve Jones. Wad­kins shot 67 over the last 18 holes, Sutton 68, Jones 70 and Pate 71. 
Jack Nicklaus, 49, who was in title contention until he struggled to an 80 in Satur­day's play, closed with a 71 and finished at 289. 
Rice, No. 4 on Michigan's all­time list in scoring and field goals missed only one of his eight shots in the first half and that came from beyond the 3­point line. The 6-foot-7 senior forward also had five of his team's 13 rebounds in the first half, and he finished with 34 points. 
The Wolverines, 16-4 for the season but a disappointing 4-3 in the conference, pulled away with a 10-3 spurt midway in the first half to snap a two-game losing streak. 
An 8-footer by Mark Hughes ignited the spurt, glVlng the Wolverines an 18-12 edge with 
11 :50 remaining in the half. Loy Vaught followed with a 15­footer. Vaught, who brought the nation's leading field goal percentage of 73 percent into the game, made all four of his first-half shots. 
Jimmy Oliver revived Purdue's hopes with a 3­pointer. Michigan, which shot 69 percent in the first half (20 of 29), then scored six straight with Rice contributing four to put the visitors ahead 26-15 with 
9:26 remaining in the half. 
The Observer Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frida~he Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
SEEKING MAGNAVOX ODESSEY CARTRIDGES ESPECIALLY FOOT­BALL THIS MIGHT NOT SEEM IMPOR­TANT, BUT BELIEVE ME, IT IS. IF YOU, OR ANYONE YOU KNOW CAN HELP, THE MONETARY REWARD WILL BE GREAT. CALL 2n-6224. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Typlng-Wordprocesslng 237-1949 
\ LOST/FOUND l 
FOUND-a Smith Carona typewriter at the bus stop fri. before X-Mas break. Call and claim. x2297 
•••••• LOST •••••• One pair of tortoiseshell-rimmed glasses in Bridget's or Commons last Sat night (1121 ). Please 
call Kevin at 289-8415. Thanks. 
lost-pair of black leather gloves on shuttle Jan. 20. Please-it's cold out! * 
2804 
LOST: Orgo lab Card··lf found call x4936. 
LOST: red scarf between lafourtane and Library Wed. morning 1125. Please call Cara at 3722. 
found an address book in the post office on Thursday. II might be im-portant to you. call 233-4381. · 
FOUND: Keys at The Varsity Shop. Call 277-0057. 
LOST: Gold bracelet with a two-bead design. Great sentimental value. Call Kathleen at 283-3865. 
FOR RENT 
HOUSE FOR RENT 3 BLOCKS FROM ND 3 BEDROOMS-$475-MO 516 NAPOLEON 232-3616 
6 BDRM HSE AVAILABLE 89-90 SCHOOL YEAR. 67!>MO. 234-9364. 
WANTED 
COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire Mts., West. Mass. Good Sal.,room & bd,lravel allowance, beautiful modem facility,must love children & be able to teach one of the following: Tennis, W.S.I.,Sailing Waterski,Basebaii,Basketbaii,Soccer LaCrosse,Wood,A&C,Rocketry, Photog­raphy,Archery,Pioneering, Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp Winadu,5 Glen la.,Mamaroneck, NY 10543. (914)381-5983 
ND Law school students to be reps lor Kaplan-SMH Bar Rev!-courses. Earn free bar rev!-course plus $$'s. Call 272-4135. Ask lor Sue. 
COUNSELOR&Girls camp in Maine. Good sal,room & bd.,travel allowance, beautiful modern facility ,must love children and be able to teach one of the following:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing Waterski,Softbaii,Basketball, Soc· cer,LaCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­back,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp Craft,Gymnastics.Call or write:Camp Vega, Box tnt Duxbury, Mass. 02332 (617)934·6536 
WANTED:USED COMPACT DIS· C.WIPAY UP TO $7 EA. 291-4492 OR 
291-9044. 
FOR SALE 
Order your TEXTBOOKS 25% OFF! SAVE $$$ on paperbacks. 30% OFF! PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. Just 3 blocks from campus. PH# 233­2342 ROUNDTRIP TICKET FROM IN­DIANAPOLIS TO FORT LAUD. CALL BRIAN AT X1750 
FOR SALE: Boston Accoustics A70 spkrs. (pr.). SPECS: 90db, 45to 20000 
hz.,8" woof.,!" tweet.,15to 75 w-t:han. RETAIL $350. 3.5 yrs left on 5 yr. war­rantee. LIKE NEW!! Call Tony Troup at 288-6603. Asking $250 o.b.o. NEGOTI­ABLE! The rest of my stereo stolen. MUST SELL!!! 
1986 TOYOTA TERCEL2DR LIFTBACK EXC COND 25,000 MILES $3900. CALL JANET 284-5710 8·4:30 M·F 
For Sale: SYNTHESIZER call Joe 1865 
TICKETS 
PLEASE-·· We need to trade two tickets for the Friday night performance of the Keenan Revue for either Thursday or Salurday. Call Matt at 283-1957 or Sara at 283­2851 
NEED 3 DUKE TICKETS-CALL SEAN 1398 
NEED 2 DUKE GAS CALL 2281 
NEED 2 DUKE GAs-Kristin x1124 
HELPI!I!!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIII I REALLY NEED TWO DUKE GA'S SOON! $$$ PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 2183 AND LEAVE A MESSAGE $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 4 GA"s and 1 student tix for DUKE game--Please call x4980 
WE NEED THREE DUKE GA'S. PLEASE CALL RICK OR JOE AT 1644. 
Please, I desperately need 2 Duke Stud tixl Cengiz Searfoss x1658 
4 Duke tixs for sale. 272-6306 
PERSONALS 
hlag. 
LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review early. Kaplan-SMH reviews lo many states available here In South Bend. Transfer back horne lor summer. Dis· counts lor Kaplan LSAT alumni. Reserve before March 2 Call 272-4135. Ask lor Sue. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND-WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE 
PLACID. CALL 1-IIQ0-343-8373 
SPRINGBREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE 50Ft YACHTS BIMINI BAHAMAS GROUPS OF 8, $435.00 PP 7 DAYS INCLUDES ALL MEALS 1-IIOG-999-7245 ANYTIME ORGANIZE & CRUISE FREE 
VALENTINE GLAMOUR Give that spe· cial guy the best gift of all-yourself-in a glamour portrait by Joe Ringer. Call lor details and free brochure. 287-0613. 
DILLON HALL VOTE VOTE VOTE VOTE DILLON HOUSE THIEL LEZYNSKI PORTER OONAHOE 
Do you like acting 
COMEDY? DRAMA? IMPROV? then IRISH ACCENT wants you Tryots Tue, Jan. 31 call Doug x 4603 or Tim x 3105 
AE YOU CREATIVE? IRISH ACCENT, a new theater troupe wants ·you. TRYOUTS Jan. 31 No experience nec­essary call Doug x4603 or Tim x3105 
are you fun-loving, outgoing, and high­spirited? Why not tryout for IRISH AC­CENT? 
IRISH ACCENT 
O'hare to New Orleans Air Ticket for sale. 211-2-6. $140 negotiable Bob 1521. 
············································· 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spend 7nt&11days at Spring Break's HOT· TEST resort, The Clarendon Plaza home of Penrod' a/The Plantation Club and the largeat pool deck ON THE BEACH! $195 per person limited space. Call today Breakaway Tours 1­800-444-7384. 
THANK YOU Jesus, Sis. Joseph, Jude, & Anthony, & Mon. Escriva for granled 
intentions 

Anyone driving to or thru the Milwaukee area the weekend of Feb. 3 have room for 2·4 riders to share expenses? Call Chris or Paige # 2923 ASAP. 
................................... ·························· 
STUDENTS NEEDED TO ACT AS LIVE STREET MUSICIANS AND STREET ENTERTAINERS. CALL BOB AT 23&­7254. 
To whoever sent the birthday note to 
SUSSIE--You have aroused my curiousity--please send more inlo (flowers would be nice tool) 
····························································· 
SPRING BREAK IN MAZATLAN, MEXICO $450 round lrip air fare and lodging. Deadline-Feb. 1. For more info, call Kim x4420. 
.....................A'P'j;A'l:ActiiA"................... 
APPALACHIA 
APPALACHIA 
Appalachia Seminar Information Tues. Jan. 31 8:30-9:30 pm esc 
WASHINGTON 
WASHINGTON 
WASHINGTON 
Washington Seminar Information Tues. Jan. 31 7· 8 pm CSC 
AMY & ELANE The hell begins tonight -IRON STOMACH 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND FOR SPRING BREAK 7 Nights luxury Condominiums,Round Trip Air Transportalton. The official Notre Dame endorsed 
trip. $437. To sign up call Bob 283-1521 or Student Activities Off. at 239-7308. 
HEY PAPA BEAR, YOU KNOW WHAT THEY SAY ABOUT GUYS WHO WEAR PINK??????????????????? THEY SAY THEY'RE THAT WAY, YOU KNOW, CHESS QUEENS. 
JPW SEATING CHANGE for dinner and brunch. All former arrangements void. Tues& Wed atCCE, 2-10 PM Bnng tO's for people you wish to sit with. Max 9 ID'S'j>erson. Ouestns? Call239·6028 7-9 
PM or ask an exec. committee member. 
Need a good resume job? Work for the Observer as a typist You can gain valuable experience and a lot ol fun. We need a typist for Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1 to 3 p.m. If you are interested, call Jim Winkler at 239­7471. 
Make Mom proud ... 
JULIE AND CHET MADE A BET ABOUT HER GRADES THIS FALL JULIE FELL SHORT; CHET WAS A SPORT; AND THEY DID IT IN FISHER HALL. 
GOOCH HAPPY BIRTHDAY! YOUR 
PRESENT FROM ME WAS YOUR SAT. AFTERNOON WITH THE GUY& HOPE YOU ENJOYED IT! LOVE, 
SARAH 



AP Photo Ivan Lendl won the Australian Open with a the French Open the next Grand Slam event on straight-set victory over Mlloslav Meclr. The win the tour. vaulted Lendl back atop the tennis ranklngs with 
Lendl wins Australian Open 
Associated Press MELBOURNE, Australia -­Ivan Lendl had two New Year's resolutions: win the Australian  tournament for the first time, it's such a great feeling that you always want more," he said. "It makes you greedy. You want another one and an­ stronger," said Mecir, who double-faulted 10 times, often on critical points. "But today I think I might have had a chance if I had served better."  
Open and win Wimbledon. Now he has one. Lendl beat ninth-seeded Miloslav Mecir of Czechos­lovakia 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 Sunday for his first Australian Open title, regaining the No. 1 ranking in men's tennis. "I wanted to win this tourn­ other one. It's never enough." The victory lifted Lendl to the top of the computer rankings, a spot he held for three years before Mats Wilander replaced him at last year's U.S. open. Wilander, who slumped after becoming No. 1, was eliminated in the second-round  Lendl, who had 14 aces, was surprised by Mecir's shaky serve. "I haven't seen him serve that badly for a long, long time," he said. "When he started to serve those double­faults, I couldn't believe my luck."  
ment very badly," he said. "It's such a tremendous feeling, I can't describe it." The championship was more important to Lendl than the No.. 1 ranking because his main goal is to win all four Grand Slam events. All that's missing  here by Ramesh Krishnan. "It's nice to be No. 1, but the title means so much more," Lendl said. "I didn't come here to be No. 1, I came here to win the tournament." Mecir, who lost his only pre­vious Grand Slam final to Lendl  Mecir tried to negate Lendl's baseline power by hitting a lot of slow, short shots, but Lendl waited patiently for his chances to catch the Olympic champion out of position. "It wasn't pretty, but it  
now for the three-time French and U.S. open champion is a Wimbledon trophy. "When you win a Grand Slam  at the 1986 U.S. open, said this loss was more disappointing. "At the U.S. open, I did what I could, and he was just  worked," Lendl said of his strategy. "It's ugly and I hate doing it, but that's the way to play him."  

page 11 

Oldsmobile Classic suspended in playoff 
Associated Press make a 12-footer that would 
have ended the tournament. 
BOCA RATON, Fla.--Beth "When I looked up from the Daniel and · Dottie Mochrie putt, I thought I had made it," dueled for four extra holes Sun­said Daniel, a 14-time LPGA day before their sudden-death winner who hasn't won an offi­playoff for the LPGA cial event since 1985. Oldsmobile Classic champion­Moultrie, who held a two-shot ship was suspended because of lead before hitting her ap­darkness. proach shot into the right 
Daniel, looking for her first bunker on the 18th hole, also "official" victory in more than thought her last putt would three years, birdied the last drop. hole of regulation, while "It was so dark, though, that Mochrie, a second-year pro I couldn't tell what happened," chasing career win No. 1, she said. bogeyed No. 18 to finish with The playoff will resume at 9 72-hole totals of 9-under-par 279 a.m. EST monday. The winner on the par 72, 6,333-yard will earn $45,000. Stonebridge Golf and Country Club course. Daniel's finished with a final­
The players returned to the round 70. Mochrie shot 69. 18th tee to start the playoff. Defending champion NancyBoth made par 4 before moving Lopez, who shared the third­on to holes 10, 11 and 12 where round lead with Daniel, shot 71 Daniel missed a 10-foot putt for to wind up one stroke behind. birdie and Moultrie failed to She earned $20,250. 
Alysheba wins honor 
SUMMER 1989 
Like children? Like the outdoors? Like Water Activities? 
Be a counselor in Pine River, MN at CAMP FOLEY 
We Will Be On Campus Jan 30 10:00-3:00 O'Hara Lounge La Fortune 
Now hiring counselors in 14 areas including swimmimg, tennis, sailing, and many more. 
Durso 
continued from page 16 
Marquette snagged its second title of the night at the 158-pound level when Brian Chambers pinned top-seeded Mark Gerardi in the second period. 
Notre Dame's Todd Tomazic started his match on a tear and never looked back in beating Dayton's Ed Montgomery by technical pin with 1 : 27 left in the third. 
The Irish domination contin­ued at the 177-pound level when 
Questions? Call Mike 283-3520 
Chris Geneser rolled to a 15-1
.______________________.. win over John Carroll's Carl Di 
Associated Press 
ARCADIA, Calif.-Alysheba, richest thoroughbred ever and winner of three Eclipse Awards, was just reaching his potential when he was retired to stud, his trainer and jockey say. His owners felt he'd done enough already. 
On Saturday, Alysheba won the 1988 Eclipse Award as Horse of the Year in a landslide over unbeaten filly Personal Ensign. The vote by three racing organizations was 179­40, with Belmont Stakes winner Risen Star receiving one vote. 
"He was getting stronger every race," Alysheba's trainer, Jack Van Berg, said at Santa Anita, where the an­nouncement was made. "The last four races, he just got so strong, as a trainer, I would have liked to see what he could do as a 5-year-old." 
Chris McCarron, who rode 
Bernardo. Top-seeded Geneser goes to 22-5 into Wednesday's meeting with Michigan State. 
An injury default cost Irish third seed Curt Engler his match with :28 remaining in the second. Number one seed Greg Pulskamp of Boston Col­lege held an 8-2 lead when the match was called. 
In the final match of the eve­ning, freshman heavyweight Chuck "Dream" Weaver suf­fered from an early 5<{) deficit before fighting to a 10-5 loss to Boston College's John Merklinger. 
"I was a liitle intimidated at first and had a mistake at the beginning that cost me the Alysheba to victory in the Breeders' Cup Classic on Nov. 5at Churchill Downs, said Alys­heba "was improving constant­ly." 
"I really feel he'd have been better if he'd run in his fifth year," McCarron said. "Alys­heba never did reach his full potential. He was really blos­soming last year.'' 
Alysheba also won the 1988 Eclipse Award as best older horse, and he was 3-year-old of the year in 1987. At the end of the 1988 season, he was retired to stud at Will Farish's Lane's End Farm in Versailles, Ky., with a career record of 11 wins, eight seconds and two thirds in 26 starts. 
"~e had everything to lose and nothing to gain by having him race as a 5-year-old," said Clarence Scharbauer, whose wife Dorothy and daughter Pamela are listed as Alys­heba's owners. 
match," said third-seeded Weaver. 
The final team standings were Notre Dame 127, Mar­quette 75.25, John Carroll 50.5, Dayton 32.5, Boston College 31.25, SetoQ Hall 23, LaSalle 20, Siena Heights 2 and Manhattan with .5. 
The Irish return to action Wednesday with a televised meet against Michigan State. 
"We hope for a good turnout. If we beat Michigan State it'll be our third victory against a Big 10 team," said McCann. 




$1200 Scholctrshtp for etght weeks of your summer 
devoted to servtce wortc 
In ctttes of Alumnt Clubs all over the U.S. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FEBRUARY 1 
stop by the Center for Soctet Concerns 
for tnfo and oppltcatlon 

STUDENT ALUMNI RECEPTION 
Come mingle with Alumni in the Gold Room of North Dining Hall 

~4:45-6:30 Febuary 2, 1989 
Sponsored by SARG and ND Alumni Association 
I 
I 
page 12 The Observer Monday, January 30, 1989 
ND hockey earns sweep of Canisius 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Friday's game. Co-captain Brian Montgomery gave Notre Notre Dame hockey coach Dame a 1-0 lead 10 minutes into Ric Schafer hasn't had many the game, then Bruce Guay and reasons to smile this season. Matt Hanzel scored goals 64 But the second-year Irish co­seconds apart from each other. ach was about as happy as he's Midway through the second been all season after watching period, Pat Arendt took a Guay Notre Dame (9-21-2) sweep two pass and knocked the puck past games from Canis ius (11-13-0 Ice Griff goalie Scott Diebold this weekend at the Joyce ACC. from the right side of the 
"It really looked like we were crease. Arendt's goal closed having fun playing the game," out the scoring for the game. Schafer said after Saturday's Madson continued to shut out 5-2 victory. "We seem to be the Ice Griffs for the first per­playing with a lot more enthus­iod of Saturday's game, par­iasm." tially because he saw only two 
Notre Dame has won three Canisius shots on goal. In the straight games and five of its meantime, the Irish took a 1-0 last six since suffering a school­lead at 8:03 of the period when record 14-game losing streak Hanzel scored off passes from earlier this season. Bob Bilton and Bobby Herber. 
Tne Observer 1 Matt Mittino
The weekend was a showcase "We have to work for our 
for Irish goalie Lance Madson. goals," said Canisius coach The Notre Dame hockey squad swept Canlslus and have a home-and-away series with Michigan-The junior from Minnetonka, Brian Cavanaugh, whose team over the weekend. The Irish Improved to 9-21-2 Dearborn slated for this weekend. Minn., made 29 saves in record­has lost 12 of its last 13 games ing a 4-0 shutout Friday, then after a 10-2-1 start. "We didn't right back two minutes later playing together for four scorer from getting the unas­needed to make just 12 saves get enough shots on goal. for Canisius, scoring on assists years," Schafer said of the sisted goal. in Saturday's game. Maybe we were getting a little from Tom Yoxall and Mark Herber-Hanzel connection that That proved to be the last 
Early in the weekend, Mad­too fine with our shooting." Szymusiak. struck for two goals Saturday. goal of the weekend for both son received word that he had Canisius scored for the first That tie lasted a total of 19 "They're coming down the teams. With 5:20 left to play in been one of three goalies in the time all weekend 3:28 into the seconds. After Andy Slaggert's stretch now, and it's nice to see the Parents' Night contest, country chosen to participate second period as Pete attempt from the right circle them make some give-and-go Schafer inserted second-string in the World University Games Speranza's shot ricocheted off failed, Arendt took the rebound plays." goalie Mark O'Sullivan into the in Sofia, Bulgaria, in March. the post and into the net. and shot it past Diebold to give The last Irish goal came in a game. The senior from 
"Lance Madson is so good," The 1-1 tie lasted all of 54 the Irish a 3-2 lead. shorthanded situation. Just Dorchester, Mass., recorded said Schafer. "If we had a little seconds. Tim Kuehl passed Notre Dame would score nine seconds into the Canisius five saves while protecting the better hockey team, we'd be on from behind the net to Lou twice more in the period. With power play, David Bankoske 5-2 Irish lead. the pro scouts' itineraries. He's Zadra, who slipped the puck five minutes left in the period, scored a breakaway goal that already caught the ey~ of past Diebold from the right side Herber found himself all alone spelled the end for the Ice Notre Dame next faces some pro scouts. He's a good of the crease to give the Irish in the left circle and beat Griffs. Two Canisius defenders Michigan-Dearborn in a home­goaltender, unflappable.'' a 2-0 lead. David Bankoske also Diebold on assists from Hanzel were on Bankoske's heels the and-away series this weekend. 
Notre Dame scored three had an assist on the play. and David Bankoske. whole way, but neither could The two teams will meet at the goals in the first period of Scott Lamond tied the game "Those guys have been stop Notre Dame's leading Joyce ACC Friday night. 
"Our defense did good things the demands on his time re­cally inelegible for the when it counted," said Irish garding the issue have become remainder of the season. 
~need someone with
Irish 
head coach Digger Phelps. a problem. Ellery, a sophomore, did not 
the confidence ofaSUl_'gOOO,
"They (Temple) really know "It's definitely been a drain achieve the 2.0 grade point
continued from page 16 
the dedication or
how to score. They've got guys and a strain," Chaney said. "I average in the fall semester. 
amarathoner and the
shots with two minutes to go. who were on a top-ranked team never thought I'd be doing this, Ellery averaged 5.9 points 
courage ofan explorer.
Then the Irish experience last year, and they're always asking educators to give and 2.8 rebounds in eight 
youngsters an opportunity.'' games for the Irish, including paid off. Fredrick hit a clutch ready to play. We showed a lot 
We need c1 Pea'e Cnrp' \Oiumeer 
C.tll u~ acl-800-424-RSRO. Ex c. 9'

15 points in the 81-65 win over16-foot jump shot, followed by of poise and composure down ••• 
the stretch." · · Kentucky at the Big Four Clas­
PeaceCorps.

a Singleton free throw to put 
Thr1DII!Ifw1I]Obvou1J"'"kwt

sic in Indianapolis. He willthe Irish lead at three with 37 "They have a lot of weap­Irish forward Kevin Ellery remain in school and couldseconds to go. The Owls were ons," Chaney said. "They hit has been declared academi-return in the fall of this year. 
forced to foul, and the Irish hit the big shot at the right time. two-of-three to make the final We had to do a super job for a 64-60. long time to keep up." 
The Notre Dame defense Chaney is one of the more held Macon, who was averag­outspoken coaches in opposi­ing 20.3 points per game, to 14 tion of the NCAA's Proposition points, four from the foul line. 42, which places more require­He was 0-for-five from three­ments for college athletic point range. scholarship elegibility. He said 
Holy _jL 
Vocation 
International Internship
CrossJk 
Discernment
Priests& 
Exchange Program
Brothers Retreat 
For those who are considering a vocation to priesthood and religious life in Holy Cross as a possibility. 
Travel • Fun • Experience 
· Founders of the University of Notre Dame,Holy Cross Priests & Brothers serve in a variety of worldwide mini~ stries: schools, foreign missions, parishes and auxiliary 
New Member Meeting: 
services. 
Tuesday, January 31, 1989 
PURPOSE: To meet and pray with others who are also 
6:oo PM-124 Hayes-Healy 
searching in a supportive atmosphere 
DISCERNMENT: Is the art of finding God's will; it is 
the process of discovering what we 
are called to be. 
for more information, call Jeff (x3376) 
PLACE: Fatima Retreat Center--Notre Dame campus DATE: Begins Friday, February lOth at 7:30PM Ends Saturday, February 11th at 9:00PM 
ALL MAJORS & CLASSES WELCOME! 
COST: No cost 
REGISTRATION: Call Vocation Office at 239-6385 
ADWORKS 


~------------------------------------~-------~~--------------------~~--------------------~~--.-.-----------------------. 
Monday, January 30, 1989 The Observer 
Depleted Irish come up short 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Statistically, the final stand­ings in the Notre Dame men's track meet in Madison, Wise., were not pretty. 
But stat sheets neglect to mention that the Irish squad was undermanned--with many of its members either injured or out with the flu--and faced two of the strongest teams in the Big Ten in Wisconsin and Iowa State. 
Notre Dame fell to both teams tallying 24.5 points be­hind Wisconsin's 81.5 and Iowa State's 41. 
The distance races were to be the greatest challenge for the Irish, as Wisconsin, defend­ing cross country champion, and Iowa State, who finished sixth, both came into the tri­meet with a slew of talented runners. 
And, the Irish were without seniors Dan Garrett and co­captain Ron Markezich, both cross country All-Americans. 
But sophomore Ryan Cahill placed fourth in the mile run with a time of 4:24 and a three­man contingent of runners helped the Irish with strong 
performances  in  the  1,000­ 
meter run.  
Junior  Mike  Rogan,  senior  

David Warth and sophomore Matt Ronzone ran well in the 1,000-meter run to help the Irish grab second, third and fourth places, respectively. 
Rogan crossed the finish line in 2:29, with Warth finishing close behind in 2:30 and Ron­zone just after Warth in 2: 31. 
"We may not have won," said Rogan, "but it was good for the experience of compet­ing against good teams. Our three best guys didn't even compete so we just wanted to go out and do the best we could under those circumstances." 
Junior Tom O'Rourke helped Notre Dame in the 3,000-meter run against a strong field of runners, taking fifth place with a time of 8:36. 
Freshmen Shawn Schneider and Bill Dauphinais also helped the cause in the 3,000-meter run by placing sixth and eighth, respectively. 
In the middle distances only freshman Brian Peppard, ana­tive of Dublin, Ireland, tallied points for the Irish in the BOO­meter run, as he finished fifth with a time of 1:54. 
Junior co-captain Yan Searcy was able to place third in the 400-meter run, finishing in 50.30, despite suffering from a bout with the flu. 
And Searcy got a little help from sophomore Steve Culbert who placed seventh with a time of 51.75. 
Sophomore Richard Culp placed fifth for the Irish in the 200-meter dash finishing in 25.26 and freshman speedster Raghib "Rocket"· Ismail dominated the 55-meter dash, sprinting past the entire field to cross the tape in 6.28 and qualify for the IC4A meet. 
Junior Tracy Sims finished seventh in the 55-meter dash behind Ismail, who was just short of qualifying for the NCAA championships in his first collegiate track meet. 
Junior Glen Watson finished fourth in the 55-meter hurdles with a time of 7.76 and Jim Verde placed seventh behind Watson. 
The field events were buoyed by strong performances in the long jump and high jump as sophomore Jeff Smith and junior Xavier Victor took second and third place, respec­tively with leaps of 22-8 and 22-5 in the long jump. Sophomore John Cole leapt 6-8 to capture second place in the high jump. 
Freshman Marc DeManigold grabbed fourth place in the shot put with a toss of 47-7 V4 and junior Chris Bush tied for third place by clearing 14-0 in the pole vault. 
"We may not have won the meet," said Bush, "but we're confident about future meets. Everyone has been working really hard and I think we're going to have a great year." 


Teaching math or science as a Peace Corps Volunteer Will develop your professional skills in the classroom and beyond. You might teach basic math to rural students in Belize ... and after school set up a vegetable gar­den to improve nutrition. Or be assigned as a physics teacher in Lesotho. In addition. help local women market handicrafts to earn school fees. As a Peace Corps Volunteer. you will handle responsibilities and meet challenges far greater than those that might be offered in a starting position in the United States. When you return. your Peace Corps experience may open new doors to you. Educa­tional institutions. international firms and government agencies value Jomeone with your exp .rience. 
25 years of PEAC;E CORPS The toughest job you'll ever love. 
Film Seminar, Wednesday, February 15th at 7 p.m., Center for Social Concerns. Interviews Tues. & Wed., February 28th & March 1st, Career ar:-d Placement Services, Memorial Library. Register Now! 
page 13 

Belles start quickly, but lose to Tri-State 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
Despite its excellent start, Saint Mary's was unable to capture the win at Tri-State University Saturday night. The Belles dropped to 10-4 with their 73-62 loss. 
Saint Mary's charged ahead of its competition early in the game with a 14-4 lead. Tri-State rallied to close the margain, but the Belles maintained a narrow 39-37lead at the half and con­tinued to control the ball un­til the final few minutes of the game. 
With 1:42left in th~ game, Tri-State led 64-61 and had possession of the ball. They 
SMC swimming team coasts past Chicago 
By LIZ VANDERSAR Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team Saturday downed the Univer­sity of Chicago. 134-76. 
Dominating almost every event, the Belles held a marked lead throughout the meet. 
The 400 medley relay team of Lori Swedish, Bonnie McLeod, Collette Rush and Yvette Ditmyer claimed first place with a time of 4:32.73. The Belles' relay team of Jen­nifer Glaser, Mary Cassidy, Jennifer MacDougall and Mar­garet Daday finished third at 5:10.57. 
Peggy Halloran had a strong finish in the 1650 freestyle with a 20:29.66, earning her a first place. 
dominated the remainder of the game, sinking nearly all of their shots. 
"It was a real nail-bitter," said Belles' coach Marvin Wood. "We were even all the way, but slipped back during the last three minutes. Tri­State was the winner of our District last year and has all of their players back, so they were tough competition." 
Junior Julie Radke dis­played her talent again as she led ·in all aspects of the game. She was the leading scorer with 14 points, pulled down 9 rebounds, had 4 as­sists and 4 steals. 
The next game for the . Belles will be Friday at An­derson College. 
The 200 freestyle proved to be a strong event for the Belles. Golski, Colburn and Glaser placed first, second and third respectively. 
The diving duo of Cummins and Blake each played a signif­icant role in the accumlation of points for Saint Mary's. Cum­mins placed first in the three meter diving and Blake second in the one meter. 
Maurer and McLeod's times of 2:36.65 and 2:28.24 in the 200 IM earned them second and third places. 
Colburn's 5:42.42 and Golski's 5:53.48 allowed for an easy domination in the 500 freestyle. Both teamed with Halloran and Maurer to win the 800 freestyle relay. 
!KAPLAN 
MCAT 
FIRST 
FEB. 5
CLASS 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
PLEASE RESERVE YOUR 
PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTEQ. 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135 
~----~---~ ------~-­
page 14 The Observer Monday, January 30, 1989 


Women swimmers stop skid 
By MARY GARINO men's team raced faster and Sophomore Jim Byrne was Sports Writer more cohesively than ever the highlight of the meet for the before, a result of extensive Irish, recording victories in 
The women's swim team training earlier this year. The both the 200 breasstroke and broke out of its three-meet swimmers' times have steadily the 200 individual medley.losing streak in impressive fas­improved over the last four Freshman Joe Rentz was hion by collecting two wins meets, as they have evened second in the 200 butterfly. 
over the weekend. The Irish their record at 5-5. defeated Cleveland State last The men's swim team "Overall the team perfor­Thursday, and followed up by defeated Cleveland State 158-mance was strong, aggressive 
· pounding St. Bonaventure on 85, but they were unable to beat and consistent," Welsh said. Saturday by a score of 201-88. a strong and competitive St. "We didn't fade. The meet was 
Notre Dame won 13 events in Bonaventure team, losing by a a lot closer than the score indi­the meet against St. Bonaven­score of 101-142. cated." ture, including two wins each "St. Bonaventure won the for Tracy Johnson, Christy key races, so they won the "Both the men and women 
Moston and Becky Wood. The meet," said Welsh. "As in any handled themselves well ath­trio has consistently been the close contest, the team that is letically and as representa­top finishers for the Irish wo­most prepared at the transition tives of the University," Welsh men. moments will win." noted. 
Wood's performance was es­St. Bonaventure won last pecially exciting because she is year's Eastern Intercollegiate Personal highlights from the from Olean, N.Y., and she Championships, and has al­weekend were Brian Rini's swam well in front of her home ways been a tough team to record breaking perforn1ance town. But Coach Tim Welsh beat. There is a strong rivalry in the 1000 freestyle. Rini, a 
was quick to point out that the between the Notre Dame and sophomore from Ohio, re­win against St. Boneventure St. Bonaventure. The home corded a time of 9:40.55, a new was a total team effort. team has won the meet for the University record by three 
"This was our best overall last two years. seconds, during the Cleveland team meet," he said. "It was "This is a picture of col­State meet. Also, Allison a total team breakout, it wasn't legiate swimming at its best," Baker, a freshman, qualified
just because two or three Welsh stated. "It was highly in­for the Regional Diving Cham­people swam well. We are a tense and emotional, yet it was pionships, from which the par­team of depth." clean and honorable competi­ticipants in the NCAA Cham­
Welsh added that the wo-tion." pionships are chosen. for Improvement--especially m the area of free throws.
Spark 

He was only 1-5 from the foul 
line, with two of those misses continued from page 16 coming in the last minute of the Singleton said. "They game. That was relatively un­(Indiana) were sagging on characteristic; as Singleton defense and respecting the in­came into the game shooting side game." 74.2 percent. 
"That's something I really
Singleton now has a team­need to work on," Singletonhigh 71 assists and is asserting said. "I did not do a good job himself as an offensive leader, shooting free throws in the but he knows there is still room second half." 
Women 
continued from page 16 
and the steady play of sopho­more guard Sarah Liebscher, who finished with 12 points and 
six assists. a triangle-and-two and that left Krissi Davis pulled down one of our wings open most of 
8th Annual 
eight rebounds for the Irish to the time. Lisa and Deb were go with her nine points. Lisa able to capitalize on that." Kuhns hit back-to-back three­The Irish next see action on 
~flJRlliOO~ 
pointers just 30 seconds apart Thursday when they travel to late in the first half while fresh-Detroit. 
mlfffi~!OC 
1989 
STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN 


RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE 
NOW! 
• BREAK WITH AWINNER • NO AIR MATTRESSES • CONFIRMED RESERVATIONS • 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 
SHERATON CONDO OR HOTEL, HOLIDAY INN, GULF VIEW OR LANDFALL TOWER CONDOS • 5 OR 7NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT 
SHADOW RUN CONDOS OR OVERLOOK HOTEL • 5 OR 7NIGHTS LOOGING·LIFTS·PICNIC·RACE-GOOOIE BAG! 
DAYTONA BEACH 
TEXAN HOTEL AND KITCHENETTES lNIGHTS 
PORT ROYAL CONDOS 50R 7NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND BEACH & TENNIS RESORT lNIGHTS 
DON•J DELAY! 
CENTRAL SPRING BREAK J~~~ INFORMATION &RESERVATIONS 
WISC offers summer Internships wtth Congress. wtth the White House. with the media and wtth think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by senior-level government olllcials. whoare also scholars. and by experienced journalists. Similar opportunities In public policy Internships are offered (with academic credit) in London (fall. Spring and Summer) 
1·800·321·5911~··£~~. 
7AM-7PM M-Th,-7AM-5PM Fri. 9AM-5PM Sat. Mountain Standard Time ~ Reservations may be made by credit card
• c;c [:'~~ l\ [il IIRt.~~ 
The Wuhillgton IDternatlonal Studie• Center 
or you may contact your local Sunchase campus representative or your favorite travel agency
214 MassachuS<tls Ave .. N.E. Suite 230 Washington. D.C. 2000212021 547·3275 
• Oependmg on bre.ak dates and lengll' of st.1y
WnSC 
man forward Deb Fitzgerald added eight points in 12 minutes of play. 
"I was very happy with Deb Fitzgerald today," said McGraw. ''Dayton was playing 

--~ -----~--------­
Monday, January 30, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
6X-PI?E511/eNT!IIL CIINI?!Pf/Tl! liN!? WN&f/6 Fert5H!ST 8/tl.. P. CIIT Hl/5 /3€@1 K/ll/VIIPf'liP."'  .. lrr 7H/5 V£/?Y MOMeNT, H6 IS /Je!N& 57llf.£N OFF 77J .4 5f/~!CIIL L/18 IN N6W YCI'?K ... WHICH t£1/VtJ5 {15 WI7H II M05T f'R/6Hr&NIN6 f?/?~5f?ECT···  



Buzz McFiattop 
~ ~YAIJI ..;vll18£.t.. -4/Mr£~NI&IIT t:J.:.YI'ff'l~ h'~~s 
,.IV NoTX£ OM~ 
/N'tJIAIIA. I 
There's an epidemic with 27 million victims. And no visible symptoms. 
It's an epidemic of people who can't read. Join the fight against illiteracy by calling toll-free 1-800-228-8813. 
Volunteer Against Illiteracy. The only degree you need is a degree of caring.
r.ti!IO 
~~ C~alition for Literacy 
Mike Muldoon 
--am Jt.4~ R£V£AL£P ll/llfkJI.IC, 5~ROIP5 IN !'(f. vt:J/{1/~:.5 .5y5T$/11. 
BvT;If£){ Ar 
L£A5r Sll~ /JVNK£/J TilE

t.£PR£d{Atl/ll. r.:r.~........__.~ 
""' 

"Sol ... You've been buulng around the living room agalnl" 
7:00 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all students scheduled to interview with Champion Inter­national on Feb. 3, upper lounge, University Club. 
7:00 p.m. C ommunica tion  and  T heatre  film  "North  by  
Northwest,"  directed  by  Alfred  Hitch cock,  Annenberg  
Auditorium.  

9:00 p.m. Iceberg Debates, student debates in the residence halls sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and student government. 
9:30 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "High School," directed by Frederick Wiseman, Annenberg Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Top Round of Beef Baked Sole Eggplant Parmesan Ham & Turkey Sandwich 
M A T 
H 
1 
0 
1 
A pubhc service message from The Observer 
COMICS 
ACROSS  23 Prairie flower  56 Operatic song  
1 Look fixedly 6 High mountains 10 Part of Q.E.D. 14 Brother of Moses  26 Greek oracle site 30 Nourished 31 Fortuneteller's phrase  57 Golfer's warning call 58 Organic compound 63 Final  
15 Scarce 16Jay-, Carson's  32 Transportation price 36 Poker stakes  64 Units 55 Animated 66 Tessera  
substitute host  40 Magis' guide  67 Budget item  
17 Faint light  43 Saw cuts  68 Covers the inner  
18 Leave out  44 Fencing sword  surface  
19 Landed  45 Part of a shoe  69 Kane's  
20 Frighten  46 Bullfight shout  "Rosebud"  
21 Short note  48 Maltreat  10 Socials  
22 Allen or Nahum  50 Symbol of  71 Begin  
of poetic fame  Judaism  
DOWN  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Droops 2 Mineral powder 3 Scope 4 Shout 5 Catch in a net 6 Fragrance 7 Debussy opus 8 Heavyweight champ Carnera: 
1933 
9 Place aside 10 Jubilance 11 Reduce tension 
-i-+=+::+"=/:i:+.:-:t-::+:::-t:-1 12 Author Loos 
.:,:.+:=+:-;+:-,-~ 13 Carries 
.;...;.&..;~"-'-' 24 Quarrel 
. 
Berke Breathed 
25 Greenish blue 26 Circular plate 27 Italian noble 
family 28 Cordelia's father 29 Pierced 33 "Honest" 
President 34 Opposite of Dem. 35 Hot time in Paris 

The Far Side 

37 "Bird-never 51 Oregon or Santa wert": Shelley Fe 
38 Lampreys 52 Passageway 39 Pintail duck 53 Gift recipient 41 Capital of 
54 Sports place Norway 55 Waistcoats42 Half: Prefix 59 Narrow opening 

47 Exertion 60 Turner or Louise
49 Perfection concepts 61 Always 
50 Veteran seamen 62 Repose 
' 
Gary Larson 

Sports
Monday, January 30, 1989 page 16 
Notre Dame gets big victory over Temple 

Durso becomes Notre Dame's winningest wrestler 
·-
By DAVE McMAHON to 18-9, needed an advantage­Senior Jerry Durso notched Sports Writer time point at the end of the career victories 119 and 120 as third _period to send the match he controlled his final match Jerry Durso won his fourth 
and won by a 10-1 tally. The consecutive National Catholic wins, which improve Durso to Tournament championship and 25-2 and set a new Notre Dame set a new record for most wins mark for most in a career, in a career in leading the Irish propelled him to his fourth wrestling squad to the team straight National Catholic title Sunday night at the Joyce Tournament championship. ACC. The previous record of 118 wins Notre Dame, with a totahof was held by Bill Baty, who 127 points, placed 10 wrestlers completed his career at 118-49. in the finals and came away Pat Boyd, after working out with six victories in dominating only two days before the touna­the tournament. ment because of an injury that "I was pleased with our ef­kept him sidelined for five fort," said head coach Fran weeks, took the 142-pound title McCann. "We came out ready with a 10-1 win over third­to go and wrestled with inten­seeded Mike Collica. The
Jerry Durso
sity." match was never close as Boyd 
In the opening match of the into overtime. Pasdo, 19-6-1, led 5-1 heading into the final 
championship bracket, Andy led 3-0 after the second over­period. 
Randenbaugh broke open an 8-time, but a feisty Gowens put "He's one of our leaders and 
2lead and coasted to a 14-6 vic­a strong effort before falling 3-it's great to have him back," 
tory over John Carroll's Nick 2. said McCann. Todd Layton, 
Salatino at 118 pounds. "Marcus just had a mental who also took the title last year 
At the 126-pound division, letdown," said McCann. "He at Cleveland, improved to 19-6 top-seeded freshman Marcus had it won but just let it get on the year after defeating Gowens dropped a 2-1 opening away in the third." Marquette's Eric McMenemy period lead before falling to With :40 left and Gowens at the 150-pound level. Mike Pasdo of Marquette in ahead 3-2, Pasdo scored two overtime. Gowens, who drops points to take the lead. see DURSO, page 11 
Singleton controls offense after making adjustment 
By GREG GUFFEY hands in there," Singleton said. Sports Writer "We couldn't get any good shots in the first half." 
Temple's match-up zone At halftime, Phelps told gave Notre Dame fits for one Singleton to take charge and half Sunday at the Joyce ACC, the sophomore guard holding the up-tempo Irish of­responded. fense to 27 points and forcing "He (Phelps) told me to 17 turnovers. · drive inside and make someth­
Then sophomore Tim ing happen," Singleton said. Singleton took charge for the "When I drove inside, they Irish. were practically giving me the 
Singleton scored 11 points shot." and dished out seven assists In the second half, Singleton while playing the entire second began to take those shots. half in Notre Dame's 64-60 win With the score tied 36-36, over the Owls. Singleton scored eight of Notre 
It also was Singleton who Dame's next 15 points and ac­made the key adjustment that counted for two more with an allowed the Irish offense to assist to Scott ·Paddock. He shoot 62.5 percent from the capped it with a drive to the field and commit only seven basket that boosted the Irish to turnovers in the second half. a 51-49 advantage. 
With the Temple defense fal­Singleton also shined on the ling back and keying on Notre defensive end, helping limit Dame's powerful inside tan­Temple's All-American Mark dem of Keith Robinson and Macon to only 14 points on 5-of-LaPhonso Ellis, Singleton pen­19 shooting. Macon averages etrated the lane and made 20.3 points per game for the things happen. When the Owls Owls. began to play Singleton, he "We just wanted to make him dished off to his teammates for work for the ball," Singleton easy baskets. said. "We figured if he worked 
"We told Tim Singleton if for the ball, he might be a little they're not going to come out tight when he shot." and play him, to go to the hole," In several ways, Singleton's said Notre Dame coach Digger performance against the Owls Phelps. "Certain teams aren't mirrored his showing in Notre going to come out and play him, Dame's 84-71 win over Indiana and when that happens he has earlier in the season. to take over offensively." With the Hoosiers keying on 
In the first half, Singleton Notre Dame's inside game, played only 11 minutes and was Singleton scored 15 points and held scoreless. He and the Irish dished out eight assists. In the offense found themselves back­first half of that game, he shot tracking most of the half. When only four times and scored only the Irish tried to go inside, the five points.Owl defenders more often than not came up with the ball. "You could say it was basi­
"They sagged off and you cally the same type of game," think you have a good passing angle, but there are a lot of see SPARK, page 14 
Irish start quickly in win over Flyers 
By BRIAN O'GARA gap to five when Tobette Pleasant hit a layup off yet
Sports Writer 

another offensive rebound. 
The Notre Dame women's Pleasant would finish the basketball took an early lead game with 20 points and 12 on a pesky Dayton Flyers rebounds. team and then held on for a "Pleasant is a good 72-57 win Saturday at the player," said McGraw. "We Joyce ACC. tried to front her and get 
After Sara Liebscher gave some help behind her but she 
the Irish a 4-0 lead 30 seconds still got rebounds. We were into the game with a steal in position. She just beat us and baseline layup, the 12-5 to the ball." 
Irish never looked back. Two three-point plays, by 
Notre Dame pulled ahead Karen Robinson and by as much as eight in the Diondra Toney, along with a first half but could not Robinson 15-footer, gave the deliver the knockout punch Irish a 12-point lead at 13:44. as the Flyers kept creeping Dayton hung tough, they back. Dayton controlled its would never draw closer offensive glass, pulling down than six. Notre Dame found 
nine first half offensive better shooting success late rebounds to Notre Dame's in the game, shooting at five. nearly 60 percent in the 
"We let them back into the second half. "We were game for awhile _in the rushing a lot of shots," said middle," said Irish head co­McGraw. "We haven't been 
ach Muffet McGraw, "We shooting with confidence. got a little lethargic and lax We've got to get much better of defense, but we put it to­in that area." 
gether at the end." The Irish were led by 
The Irish held a 34-27 ad­Karen Robinson's 19 points vantage at the half and Dayton quickly closed the see WOMEN, page 14 
Irish gaining
. 
expenence 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
At the beginning of the bas­ketball season, no one would have expected the senior-less Notre Dame basketball team to win. in the games where expe­rience counted the most. 
But the Irish beat the Temple Owls 64-60 Sunday in a real test of who had the most grace un­der pressure. 
"You can see how much of a disadvantage it is when you don't have a senior citizen run­ning the country," said Temple head coach John Chaney, who started one senior, three sop­homores and one freshman against the Irish. "We're switching in freshmen at point, and at times you could see the disadvantage. Leadership is so important, perhaps more than anything else." 
Because the Owls effectively stalled the inside game of the Irish, the Notre Dame leaders, junior co-captains Jamere Jackson and Joe Fredrick, took over the scoring from the out­side, hitting 13 and 14 points, respectively. Sophomore Tim Singleton contributed 11 points, all in the second half and many of them penetration shots when the Irish needed to score. 
"In the second half, when Jamere started to hit, they started to extend the defense," Fredrick said. "Then the middle was left open for Tim, and he drove down it." 
After Temple jumped out to an early 18-9lead, Notre Dame came on to get within one point, at 20-19. From there, any lead was a slim one, as the defenses kept the game close. The Irish, despite committing 17 turn­overs, held a one point lead at 
•
ND WinS 
The Observer I Trey Reymond 
Tim Singleton drives on Temple's Mike Vreeswyk Sunday during Notre Dame's 64-60 win over the Owls. Singleton scored 11 points and dished out seven assists as the Irish Improved to 1o-3. 
the half, and the scoring was balanced until the four-minute mark in the game as the Irish took better care of the ball, committing seven turnovers in the second half. 
With Temple holding a 57-53 lead, Jackson nailed a three­point shot from the right side. Fredrick stole the inbounds pass after the basket, and Keith Robinson rebounded Fredrick's missed shot to give the Irish a one point lead. Temple center Duane Causwell fouled LaPhonso Ellis, who hit the first half of the one-and­bonus, making the score 59-57. 
Ellis returned the favor, fouling Temple's sophomore sensation Mark Macon, who tied the score with two foul 
see IRISH, page 12 
National Catholics 

