
~----------~~~~--~--~----~------------------~----------------~----~--.-.-----------~-------· 
etc.: Blues reviews 
IVIEWPOINT: Battle of the sexes 


VOL. XXII, NO. 89 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1989 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s . 
Raising clenched fists, Iranians demonstrate in Teh­ran streets Wednesday, chanting slogans "Down with Britian and down with America" to protest the publish-


Pan-Am bomb was in cassette . player 
Associated Press 
LOCKERBIE, Scotland--A radio-cassette player held the bomb that brought down Pan Am Flight 103, but the identity of the bomber still is not known, the top investigator of the bom­bing said Thursday. 
Investigators believe the ex­plosive that shattered the Boeing 747 on Dec. 21 was placed aboard the aircraft in Frankfurt, West Germany, where the flight began, said Detective Chief Superintendent John Orr. It apparently had been put on the aircraft as checked baggage. 
"New positive lines of in­quiry are unfolding," he told a news conference in this south­western Scottish town where the jumbo jet crashed, killing 
UK protests to Iran about threats 
Bounty on author doubled to $5.~ million by Khomeini 
Associated Press 
LONDON--Britain protested to Iran on Thursday over Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's orders to kill Sal­man Rushdie, the author of "The Satanic Verses," andre­ligious students in Iran threatened suicide attacks on him. 
The bounty for killing the 
Indian-born  writer  was  
doubled  to  $5.2  million,  and  
Britain's  airlines--including  

British Airways--tightened se­curity following bomb threats against some flights. 
all 259 people aboard and 11 on the ground. 
"While there is insufficient evidence at this stage to es­tablish the identity of the per­son or group responsible for this dreadful crime, the prog­ress made· and the evidence ob­tained has been substantial," Orr said. 
Asked whether the investiga­tion would point to a specific country, Orr said: "It may." 
On Feb. 8 the Jerusalem Post reported the bomb that destroyed the jet was hidden in a radio-cassette recorder and was traced to Frankfurt. 
That report quoted uniden­tified investigators as saying the device was similar, but not identical, to one found earlier 
see BOMB, page 4 

The death threats against and remains in hiding with his Rushdie, whose book has been American wife, Marianne Wig­denounced across the Moslem gins. Published reports said world as blasphemous, were they were under police guard called ''appalling" by the U.S. in Britain. State Department. A leading Moslems say the allegorical Islamic theologian who op­novel offends their faith by poses the book said in Egypt satirizing the prophet that Khomeini erred by not Mohammed as fallible; imply­giving Ru.shdie a chance to ing that Islam is not the only repent. true religion ; portraying 
Rushdie, a naturalized Mohammed's wives as pros­Briton whose novel has titutes; and suggesting he sparked violent protests from wrote the Koran, rather than Islamic fundamentalists, has recieving it from God. canceled a promotional tour for 
see BOOK, page 6

the book in the United States 
Anti-Apartheid leaders denounce Winnie Mandela for violent activity 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa--Anti-apartheid leaders gave an unprecedented rebuke to Winnie Mandela on Thursday, saying she has betrayed the trust of the black community and kept bodyguards who waged a "reign of terror" in Soweto. 
The influential activists ac­cused Mrs. Mandela, wife of jailed African National Congress leader Nelson Man­dela and once called the ''Mot­her of the Nation," of "violat­ing human rights . . . in the name of the struggle against apartheid." 
The strongly worded state­ment was the first public repudiation of Mrs. Mandela by the senior leadership of the anti-apartheid movement. They accused her of complicity in the abduction and assault of 
a  14-year-old  black  activist,  
Stompie  Seipei,  whose  
/  

>rA AP-l'Jii;~ 
ing of the controversial book "The Satanic Verses" in Britian. Story below left. 
r---------------------------------------------' 
Junior Parents' Weekend· 
The following is the schedule of events for Junior Parents' · Weekend: 
Friday, February 17: 

1:00 p.m.-4:00p.m. Film: Wake Up the Echoes, shown on the hour in the LaFortune Montgomery Theatre 
· 1:00 p.m. & 3:00p.m. Campus Tours will originate from the LaFortune Sorin Room 2:30 p.m.-8:00p.m. Hospitality Room in the LaFortune Sorin Room 4:45 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Notre Dame Glee Club open rehearsal in Crowley Hall 9:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. Manhattan Magic Gala: JACC-Food, music, dancing and 1 cash bar 
see JPW, page 4 
decomposed body was found dumped in Soweto last month. 
Mrs. Mandela, in the few public statements she has made, denied she was at home when the teenager and four men were abducted to her house on Dec. 29 by members of a so-called soccer team known as Mandela United who act as her unofficial bodyguards. But she has defended the abduction, saying the four were taken to protect them from sexual abuse at a Methodist Church residence where they were staying in Soweto. 
The church denied the charge, and the anti-apartheid leaders made their denuncia­tion of Mrs. Mandela at the Central Methodist Church in Johannesburg. 
Tom Sebina, a spokesman for the Mrican National Congress, said from the organization's Lusaka, Zambia, headquarters that ANC leaders were con­cerned at reports linking Mrs. Mandela with the boy's death. 
Asked if Mrs. Mandela was present when Stompie was ab­ducted, Sebina said: "Everybody at home believes so." 
The ANC has called on Mrs. Mandela to disband the soccer team. 

Leaders of the banned United Democratic Front, the nation's largest opposition coalition, joined prominent anti­apartheid lawyers and officials of the Congress of South Mrican Trade Unions, the larg­est black labor federation, in reaffirming their allegiance to Mandela while distancing themselves from his wife. 
Mandela's lawyer, Ismail Ayoby said he did not believe his client had been informed of the statement. 
Mandela, 70, has been im­prisoned since 1962 and is ser­
see MANDELA, page 4 


. ' 


page 2 The Observer Friday, February 17, 19~9 
INSIDE COLUMN 
OF INTEREST 

A_ piano concert by music professor William Cerny will be held Feb. 19 at 2 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. Cerny will perform an All Water Music progra~ with works from Chopin, Liszt, Debussy, Ravel and Griffes. -The Observer 
198&1987 lnnsbruck Returnees are scheduled to have dinner with Frau Horak on Monday, Feb. 20 at 5 
p.m. in the Blue Room of the North Dining Hall. -The Observer 
A Freshman Swim Party will be held tonight at 
R?H's Aquatic Center in the JACC from 8 to 10 p.m. Swim­
mmg games and refreshments provided. -The Observer 
Attention Juniors: All unclaimed JPW registration 
packages may be picked up today from 2 to 8 p.m. in the 
LaFortune Sorin Room. -The Observer 
Summer Opportunity for Pre-Meds and others ~nterested in health care. The 1989 Rural Health Care Trip Is a one-week summer program that visits rural health care facilities in Kentucky. For more information call Mary Ann Roemer at the Center for Social Concerns , 239­5293. -The Observer 
Registered Chicago Voters can pick up an absentee ballot application for the upcoming Feb. 28 mayoral pri­mary until this Sunday. Contact Mike Schadek at 283-1723. 
-The Observer 

Seniors: that want to teach next year are invited to meet with Pat Conlin '87 at the Center for Social Concerns this afternoon from 2 to 5 p.m. to discuss his work with Diocesan Volunteers of New York. -The Observer 
Student Financial Aid Forms <FAF) for 1989-90 must be submitted and received by College Scholarship Service by Feb. 28 in order to be considered on time for Notre Dame. Indiana (undergraduate) residents, remem­ber you must use the Indiana version of the F AF. Contact the Notre Dame Office of Financial Aid if you need further information, 239-6436. -The Observer 
Mandatory Language Placement Exams in 
French and Spanish will be given on Tuesday Feb. 21 and 
Tuesday Feb. 28, respectively, in the language laboratory 
room 202 O'Shaughnessy. Students who have studied 
French or Spanish in high school but have not yet taken 
a course in those languages at ND must take a placement 
exam prior to registration. Sign-up sheets and further in­
formation are available now in the Language Lab Office 
Room 251 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer ' 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer · 




=Ihe=Obseaer__= 
De.sign EditM .................. Laura Stanton Design Auiatant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Beth Peterson Typesdtef's . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . ... . . Molly Schwartz ............................................ Dan Towers Ne1111 Editcw ....................... Tim O'Keefe Copy Editcw ....................... Kelly Tuthill Sport• CoJ1!1 Editor ........... Theresa Kelly Vie1Dpoiftt Copy Editor .... Janice O'Leary Etc. EditM ............................ John Blasi Etc. Copy Editcw ................. Mike Restle Etc. Designef'........ ... Tim 'Blues' Irvine Typist .. ..... .. .. .. .... .. . ... . .. .. . . .. . . Sue Barton 
..·· · ·· · .................................... Rosi Lozada ND Day Editor ................ Betsy Mennen SMC Day Editor ....... ... Alisca Murphy Photographer ............... Lisa ML. D'Anzi 

De a.... (USPS 599 2-«100) is publisbed Monday throuah Friday except cluriDa cum aad vacation periods. 'Be a.....-is publisbed by the students of the Uaiveniry of Noire Dame aad Slim Mary's CoiJeae. Subscriptioaa may be purcbas­ed for 140 per year ($25 per ICIDIR«) by writiq De Cl'IIPtr, P.O. Boll Q, Notn Dull, llldiua 46SS6. 
De OhM •• is a member or De A.JMCIIIM Pn-.. All repr-oduction riJ)IU are 

,... 
J PW: a chance to show our appreciation 
Our hallowed campus will fall deathly silent this weekend for all who are not members of the junior class. Following the true spirit of the season of Advent (well, close enough), Junior Parents' Weekend is making its annual return to Notre Dame. 
If you're one of the three-quarters of under­grads left with nothing exciting to do this weekend, please bear with the juniors. Ifyou're a freshman or a sophomore, you'll get your turn 
·soon enough. Seniors, you've already had your chance at the food, fun, and festivities. 
Admittedly, the campus will suffer from a lack of social activities, but for a very good reason. (Besides, when the night life is near the bottom of the barrel anyway, how much worse can something like JPW make it?) 
Regardless, Junior Parents' Weekend is here. So what's the big deal about JPW, and why have dozens of students put in many long hours plan­ning, organizing, delegating and coordinating the weekend's activites? 
The first and most obvious reason is that it gives parents an excuse to see Notre Dame; for some, maybe even for the first time. Our campus will be inundated by throngs of moms and dads eager to explore the surroundings in a vain attempt to discover exactly where their hard-earned tuition money is going. 
Of course, there is another reason for Junior Parents' Weekend, a reason a little more subtle and quite a bit more mushy. The second reason: The love Mom and Dad have for their kids. 
Awwwwww, isn't that sweet? 
Well, yes. Yes it is. Would you rather have parents who didn't care enough to make the (probably exhaustingly long) trip and spend 48 hours or so basking in South Bend's winter warmth? 
Making time for their children is nothing new to most parents. This kind of stuff is old hat for them. 
Who was it that stayed up late that night you ate one too many marshmallows after dinner and spent the night not in bed, but in the•bath­room? 
·who provided free, convenient chauffeur ser­vice to and from little league games while put­ting up with your counting out loud the number of days until you turned 16 and would be ter­rorizing the streets and jeopordizing the in­tegrity of the family truckster? 
Who sat through two acts of not-so-hot acting and weak-to-awful singing just to see you in your tree costume during the second grade play? 
Who did all these things? Those same parents who are now making the trek to South Bend to be with their son or daughter for Junior Parents' Weekend. The same parents who have given a large part of their lives to raising their progeny 
Dave Bruner 
Viewpoint Editor 


the best they know how. And the same parents we should go out of our way for this weekend. 
Juniors, most of us are now 19, 20, or 21. We're inching closer and closer to being on our own for good. No more calling Mom at 2 a.m. be­cause you had a fight with your roommate and need a friendly ear to listen. No more asking Dad on April 14 for help filling out those tax returns that you put off until the last minute. 
We're adults now. Though many hall rectors might swear otherwise, we've been adults for quite some time. Our moms' and dads' work as parents is finally winding down. They know that they've done their best at raising us, and they have confidence that we'll do well and ac­complish something worthwhile with our lives (Please, quit laughing, Mom). 
If your parents are coming up this weekend, don't waste the opportunity to show them around the campus. Show them where you spend nine months out of your year. Show them your friends. (even introduce your friends, if your friends are the introducable type). 
But most of all, show your parents what you · have made out of yourself. Let them know what a good job they've done with you, and that you're ready to take it from here. 





_______ ___________,___________________ 
page 3

Friday, February 17, 1989 The Observer 
fiTTEttTIOtt: SOPHOMORES fittD FRESHMEtt 
Don•t let )PW restrictions cot into yoor social lifv! Come party with os at Thvodore·s all weekend! 

North's lawyer says trial rules 'intolerable' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--The Su­preme Court lifted its stay delaying the start of Oliver North's trial Thursday, but North's lawyers complained he cannot get a fair trial under a deal struck by his prosecutor and the attorney general for handling testimony involving national secrets. 
"Defendant North still faces two governments, rather than a single prosecutor with full power to make all trial deci­sions," said Brendan Sullivan, the head of North's defense team, in papers filed with U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell. 
The Supreme Court, mean­while, lifted a stay that had been requested by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh 
while he was still arguing with independentcounselLawrenceWalsh over whether rules on 
disclosing classified informa­tion were tight enough. There as no word from Gesell when he would summon jurors, 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~ociation on Thursday pr~
posed a sweeping overhaul of the Medicaid program to· ex­pand coverage to 11 million more poor Americans, im­prove benefits and raise reim­bursement rates for physicians and hospitals. 
The proposed expansion of the federal-state health assis­tance program for the poor would cost at least $13.2 billion and as much as $28 billion above current Medicaid expen­ditures, with most of the addi­tional cost borne by the federal 
$3.75 ***
*** 

1132 South Bend Avenue 232-8477 (Formerly Lee's BBQ) 
FRIDAY: 

SATURDAY: 
who are already selected, to his court to begin the trial of the former Marine Lieutenant Colonel and White House aide. 
The newest Thornburgh­Walsh arrangement "would impose intolerable burdens on the court, the witnesses, and the jurors," Sullivan said. He asked Gesell to tell the Attor­ney General he can take action to dismiss the entire case or any of the 12 criminal charges but that he will not "have the right or the opportunity to in­tervene in the trial.'' 
Sullivan recalled that Gesell had said earlier in the. week that Thornburgh would have no right to intervene "by bits and pieces" to object to the intro­duction of classified material. But Sullivan said the new ar­rangement does give Thornburgh that ability. 
Under the arrangement an­nounced Wednesday, Walsh agreed to ask Thornburgh for 
an affidavit Whenever Walsh believed undisclosable secrets were about to be spilled in the trial. 
l ; •
I 
.~ 
AP Photo 

Busy Riot Police 
of the late Emperor Hirohito Thursday as they prepare 
Japanese riot police work to dress red-and-white pylons with blue-and-white covers near the burial site for the Feb. 24 state funeral. 
o h I f M d • •d d
ver au 0 e ICal propose 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--A coalition led ·by the American Medical 
Don't n1iss HARVI GRIFFIN World reno\vned harpist .shtnv begins ,1 t 7:00 Then at I O:OOpn1 see the "JUST KIDDING" Con1edy Troupe 
L)ntertaining you for thl) rL)st of the night CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING one of the hv_ttest rock b,1nds on CC:lnlpus, 
bringing you a night of n1usic and dancing that \\·ill 111i:lke vou forget JPW exists! 
-l 
lJoors opL~n ,1 t IO:OOprn. 
government, the coalition said. 
In fiscal1988, the federal gov­ernment spent $30.5 billion and the states spent $20.5 billion on Medicaid, but fewer than half of the 33 million Americans with incomes below the federal poverty line are enrolled in the program, the coalition said. 
"We are all for a system that truly cares for the needs of the poor," saidJamesR. Tallon Jr., majority leader of the New York State Assembly and chairman of the coalition's committee on Medicaid. 
To pay for the program, 
JUMP BACK 
It's Ann "Fun" Hickey's Birthday. 
Gotcha Annie DOR 
"new revenues will have to be developed ... This is going to cost the government more money," Tallon said. 
The plan was proposed by the Health Policy Agenda for the American People, a coalition organized in 1982 by the AMA to help develop health policy. 
The AMA pays for most of the work of the coalition, which is comprised of 172 groups representing business, labor, consumers, the elderly, children and health-care providers. 
A major problem with Medicaid, the coalition's report said, is the absence of national standards. Eligibility varies from state to state, as do many of the services Medicaid covers. 

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 


~ -~----~~-~ ------------------------~-----.....--~-----------------... 
page 4 The Observer Friday, February 17, 1989 
Jazz Band performance in Was~ington Hall
1:00p.m. h:~~~~..:C:lo:s:in:g~B:r~u:n:c:h~J:A:C=C~..............~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 

Bomb 
continued from page 1 
in the possession of members of Ahmed Jibril's extremist Popular Front for the Libera­tion of Palestine-General Com­mand. The group has denied in­volvement. 
Orr said the brand name of the radio-cassette player had not been established and would 
JPW 
continued from page 1 
Saturday, February 18: 

9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Academic Workshops for the four colleges 11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. Hospitality Room open in LaFortune Sorin Room Noon-1:30 p.m. Observer Reception in LaFortune, 3rd floor 1:00 p.m., 2:15p.m., 3:30p.m. Film: WakeUptheEchoes, Cushing Engineering Auditorium ROTC Receptions in the ROTC Building: 12:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m. Air Force. 12:00 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Navy, 2:00 p.m.-4:00p.m. Army 1:00 p.m.-4:00p.m. Center for Social Concerns open house 
Mandela 
continued from page 1 
ving a life sentence for sabotage and plotting to over­throw the white-run govern­ment.· 
"We are outraged at Mrs. Mandela's complicity in the recent abductions and assault of Stompie," the anti-apartheid leaders said. "Had Stompie and his three colleagues not been abducted by Mrs. Man­dela 's 'football team,' he would have been alive today." 
Police this week identified Stompie's body in a Soweto morgue and opened a murder investigation when stab wounds were found in his neck. 
Police also are investigating the murders of a Mandela United member found hacked to death in Soweto this week, and a prominent anti-apartheid physician who reportedly saw Stompie after he had been beaten. 
Maj. Gen. Jaap Joubert, who is heading the investigations, said police also are looking for two young Soweto men who have been missing since No­vember, after last being seen in the company of members of the soccer team. 
The investigations are the ­latest in a series of controver­sies involving Mrs. Mandela, 54, in the three years since the government removed all re­strictions on her activitites and ended the ban on quoting her. Many black activists used to call her "Mother of the Na­tion," but her erratic behavior and reluctance to consult with black leaders have alienated many supporters. 
"Mrs. Mandela has abused the trust and confidence which she has enjoyed over the years," said Murphy Morobe of the United Democratic Front. 
"Numerous efforts have been made to reconcile the con­flict between Mrs. Mandela and the (black) community," he said. ''On every occasion Mrs. Mandela has refused to 
cooperate and has chosen to disregard the sentiments of the community." 
Morobe noted that Mrs. Man­dela has faced severe hardships, such as being separated from her husband for 27 years, raising her two daughters alone. 

not say whether it was a pocket-sized device or a larger model. Nor did he say whether investigators had located the detonator. 
Anti-terrorist experts have said the explosive most likely used was Sentex, an odorless, highly malleable substance made in Czechoslovakia and known to be used by terrorist organizations. 
This Spring Break, 
go Greyhound® instead. 
For just $49.50 each way, you and your friends can afford to pile on Greyhound. Whether it's the beach, the slopes or your hometown, going Greyhound won't cramp your style. 
$ 50 
each way based on round -trip purchase. 
,f&~~~~~ 
4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Must present ~al_id c~llege LD. c:ud UJX?n purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good only for travel on Greyhound and other parttc1patmg earners. Offer hmned. Greyhound also offers low Money Saver fares. Some restrictions apply. Spring Break fare available 2/1/89 through 4/30/89 and is subject to change without notice. © 1989 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
1:30 p.m. & 2:30p.m. Snite Museum of Art tours 2:00 p.m.-4:00p.m. Foreign Studies Reception, basement of the Center for Continuing Education 2:00 p.m.-4:00p.m. Student-Alumni receptionin the Joyce ACC. 
1:00 p.m. and 2:30p.m. Shenanigans revue in Snite Annenberg Auditorium 2:30p.m. Career and Placement Services presentation 4:30p.m. Mass South Dome of the JACC 6:15p.m. -9:30p.m. President's Dinner North Dome of the JACC 
Sunday, February 19 
9:30a.m. -12:00 p.m. 
Orr said he was "aware of some aspects of the explosive that was used," but declined to elaborate. 
The discovery of the bomb's hiding place followed painstak­ing reconstruction of a baggage container from pieces--some no larger than a table knife-­strewn over 40 miles of Scottish countryside. 
''The reconstruction of the baggage container suggests that the explosive device may have been among the baggage from the Frankfurt flight," Orr said. 

"The particular bag which contained the device has not been identified at this stage, but there is most detailed work under way with forensic assis­tance to achieve this identifica­
tion.  I  believe  this  can  be  
done," he said.  
Orr  said  the  belief  that  
Flight 103 originated in Frankfurt on a Boeing 727. At London's Heathrow Airport, the New York-bound flight was changed to a Boeing 747. 






=Ihe=-Obset:Ver----= 
is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editors News Copy Editors 
A one-page personal statement is due to Matt Gallagher by 5 p.m., Fri., Feb 24. Any questions, contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. 
Frankfurt was the origin of the bomb was based on "a balance of probabilities." Most of the 1500 pounds of baggage in the container in which the bomb was located was checked in at Frankfurt, and the rest was "interline" baggage from other points. 

Friday, February 17, 1989 The Observer 
Moslem insurgents begin assault on Afghan cap·ital 
ASsociated Press 
KABUL, Afghanistan--Moslem guerrillas fired a bar­rage of rockets into the capital today, one day after the Soviets completed their troop withdrawal, and seven people were reported killed and six wounded. 
Also today, the foreign mini­ster said the government has asked the United Nations to set up outposts along the border with Pakistan to check the flow of arms to Moslem guerrillas. 
In the attack on Kabul by U.S.-backed guerrillas, one rocket landed outside a 




i EXHL 

in western Kabul, killing three children playing in the street, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. Another young girl was killed and her mother's legs were blown off but she sur­vived, the spokesman said. 
Less than a half mile away. a rocket struck near a power transmission station, killing a bus driver and two men, the of­ficial said. Five people were in­jured in the rocket attack, said the spokesman, who demanded anonymity. 
In his comments today, Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil 


1NG! 

e ... Boonnan has 1nade hi..fj 1nost dizzy~ngly . e 
e fiomy 1novie, an anarchic celebratton of e 
e j{unily.. Br~athtaking." e 
• nu111J .-\nsm..\f. '.\S\\'f.FJ..: • 
• "****tHJGHESTRATING)Funnv and • 
e f/nwless. ONE OF THE BEST FILMS e 
e OF 1987." e 
• -Mit£ Clark. USA TODM' •
• •e
e '~GREAT COMEDY. The picture itself is 
• big -a large-scale comic vision..:'·' e 
• -Paulull' Kael THE NEW YORKER f . • 
• l • 
e "RADIANT. llitnnlv ·~
! 

• personal." -..i •. 
lwll'l lfu.,Jin. .\1:\\' )OR/\' IJ.\IFS 1
• •e
e "TWO THUMBS UP." 

• Sl'i,...:J-I ,\ 1-.HI-RT & lHI-\U >I lf'i • 
e e 
e e e f-f()p[
e AND • 

: ClDRY : 
• • .• , :-\ 5~~~~1\ ... -·-----·----·] • 
: TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 7:30, 9:45 : 
-,~~ ~~~EE Notre .• 
COMMUNICA liON 
• ANOTHEAmE 

Cin8tnath8que •
•
• 

and other Western nations op­
posed to Afghanistan's Marxist 
government of blocking emer­
gency airlifts of food into 
Kabul, which is facing severe 
shortages. An official with the 
United Nations, which is coor­
dinating the airlift, declined to 
comment on Wakil's state­
ment. 
Some Western officials have predicted that the Afghan army will be unable to prevent Kabul and other major Afghan cities from being taken by Pakistani-based Moslem guer­rilla forces now that the Soviet forces are gone. 
At a news conference, Wakil reiterated allegations Presi­dent Najib made over the weekend that Pakistan is plan­ning to invade the eastern city of Jalalabad. 
He said Mghanistan has asked the U.N. Good Office Mission to Afghanistan and Pakistan to set up outposts .... near six towns along the bor-Take that The Observer 1 Usa D'Anzi .J

der. The agency, UNGOMAP, 
Nelson H1nojosa, a sophomore, and Hoa Tran, a junior, practice Tae­
monitors compliance with the Geneva Accord . Kwon-Do in the JACC Thursday. 

U~t \Vt'L{. Bestraste/. 
61 

CIIIIEIE-IIBICIIIIESTARAIT t aest pnc · 
t ~a.c:hun Md HuMn ~~· Lunch special only $3.45 Jleaaaraat open 7 days f Includes·
t Moo.-ThW'L 11:30 am to 10 pu. Fri.-Sut.ll:30 am toll pm i .· 
1 0 1

only $4 95 Sun. &Holidava 11:30 am to 10 pm ' · at Ysoup(Regul~r $7.25) 'Lunches starting at_----$3.45 ' 2. FE~g Ro_ll 
. . fDinn tartin" at $4 95 ' 3. ned Atce
Fned Gold Honey Ch1ckoo ers S g ------• t 4 0 E t 
with this coupon lJartquet..Rooma .vai/IJble for up to 200 . ne n ree until Feb. 28,1989 130 Dixie Hwy., Roscalcmd (aextto llmMicdl·a bm) 272-737& 


Need some excitement in your life? 
COMEDY .40l.'£
llt,s,~ 
G G

.:~1\S\N cotAe.o~ "o"~ 
THEODORE'S is looking for ENTHUSIASTIC 
students to fill positions for the 1989-90 school year! 
oJs General Manager Programming Manager Operations Manager Promotions Manager Accounts Manager AND •••••• ••. ••• 14 Assistant Managers Applications and job descriptions available in 315 La Fortune (Student Activities Office) Deadline March 3rd Have fun while gaining Practical Work Experience!! 
' 
'' 
Friday, February 17, 1989
page 6 The Observer 



Bush applauds Soviet withdrawal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--President Bush said Thursday he hopes the final pullout of Soviet armed forces from Afghanis­tan ensures "no more blood­baths" in the war-torn nation. 
While applauding the troop withdrawal as "a new chapter in the history of Afghanistan," Bush rejected a Kremlin call for an immediate cease-fire( 

and arms embargo. Answering questions from a

~l 
{' group of reporters in the Oval
··I Office, he said he was afraid rebels opposing the Soviet­backed Kabul government would be left in a disadvan­tageous position if U.S. assis­tance stopped. Just hours before Bush talked to reporters, the second­ranking official at the Soviet Embassy in Washington had reiterated the Kremlin's call for a cease-fire. Minister-Counselor Yevgeny Kutovoy said that a compre­hensive settlement of the strife in Afghanistan depends for the most part on ''a broadly based government with the participa­tion of all warring parties and without outside interference." Bush demanded the Soviets stay out of Afghan affairs. "The Soviet Union has noth­ing to fear from the establish­ment of an independent, non­aligned Afghanistan," he said in a written statement. ''At the same time, the U.S.S.R. bears a special responsibility for healing the wounds of this war and we all upon it to support generously international ef­forts to rebuild Afghanistan." 
Bush's comments came a day after the final pullout of Red Army forces from Af-

Book 
continued from page 1 
The British Foreign Office summoned Iran's lone diplomat in Britain, told him Khomeini's threat was "totally unacceptable," demanded spe­cial protection for its Tehran Embassy, and froze plans to expand diplomatic relations with the Islamic state. 
"We recognize that Moslems and others may have strong views about the contents of Mr. Rushdie's book," British Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe said after his office sum­moned Iranian Charge D'Affaires Mohammed Basti. 
"However, nobody has the right to incite people to vio­lence on British soil or against British citizens. Ayatollah Khomeini's statement is totally unacceptable." 
Howe stopped short of threat­ening to break diplomatic rela­tions. But in an address to a Foreign Press Association luncheon he said "A stable and serious relationship ... will not be possible while Iran fails to respect international stand­ards of behavior." 
Basti emerged from the Foreign Office in a defiant mood, saying Rushdie's "in­famous book" has had "appall­ing consequences in some Is­lamic countries." 
On Wednesday, protesters stoned the British Embassy in Tehran. 

ghanistan after a nine-year oc­cupation. 
Bush said he could not en­dorse the cease-fire and arms embargo proposal because he was concerned Soviet forces may have stockpiled weapons for the Marxist government in Kabul. 
"It would not be fair to have a tremendous amount of lethal supplies left behind and then cut off support for the resis­tance and thus leave an unac­ceptable imbalance," he said. 
State Department spokes­man Charles Redman said there has been massive stock­piling by the Soviets in recent months. Supplies provided to the Kabul regime include numerous fighter aircraft and helicopters, dozens of medium tanks, infantry fighting vehicles, armored personnel carriers, more than 200 howit­zers and scores of other ar­tillery pieces and hundreds of transport vehicles. 
"In the final days of the withdrawal, they left behind even more military equipment, including tanks, APCs and mul­tiple rocket launchers," he said. 
Bush said the U.S. commit­ment to the Afghan people "will remain firm, both through our bilateral humanitarian pro­gram and through the United Nations' efforts to rP.mnve the mines and resettle the refugees and help reconstruct the war­torn economy.'' 
There are widespread fears that a struggle for control by competing guerrilla groups could throw Afghanistan into a civil war. 
''The time for recrimination is over," Bush said. "The time for bloodbaths is over .'' 
"TO THE SHOCK of liberals everywhere, George Bush's idea of a kinder, gentler nation seems 
to be one babies...  where  we  don't  kill  
For an introduc­tory 15-issue sub­scription to NA­TIONAL REVIEW for just $17.95, call 800-222-6806.  

:!eaturing tfie Chicago 13and ~fu1 Jl\Jt'r!IJ@, 
::;e 1Jrawings lieU tfirougfwut tfie nigfit 
Mianigfit 'Drawing: T.vening for two in Cfiicago incfuding Cimousine, tfinner, ani sfiow 

Comedian Taylor Mason performs with a dummy at formance is part of a new weekly feature at Theodore's on Thursday night. Mason's return per-Theodore's called "Comedy Zone." 
We want to know! 
SUMMER JOBS 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, 
NOW ACCEPTING 
let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 
APPLICATIONS
anytime, day or night. 

Large resort on the East entrance to Glacier National Park, Montana looking for students interested in summer employment for the following positions: waitrons, bartenders, kitchen help, 
cooks, retail clerks, maids, cashiers, cocktail waitrons, desk clerks, office personnel, maintenance, fuel attendants, St. Mary RB, nc. is an equal opportunity employer 
A representative will be interviewing 
February 21 and 21st from 8:00 am 
to 5 pm in the Career and 

Placement Service Office. Please 
sign up for an appointment 
You are cordia{{y invited to .... 
Tlie Campus-Wide 
S'Y1( 

:A{prtfi Vining Commons Tebrnary 24, 1989 9:00-2:00a.m. 
'Tr.c/(gts $3 per person. availa6{e at La![ortune Infonnation 1Jesl( and from your donn S'Yf( commissioner 


Friday, February 17, 1989 
The Observer page 7 
~·

Fed punishes bank for I f 
not serving poor areas 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--A Federal 

Reserve Board decision that 
for the first time penalizes a 
bank for failing to serve poor 
neighborhoods appears to sig­
nal a new willingness by 
regulators to enforce a 12-year­
old law against such practices, 
community activists said 
Thursday. 
The Fed rejected a request 

by the Chicago-based Continen­
tal Bank Corp. to purchase a 
small Arizona bank because it 
said Continental had not ful­
filled its duties under the Com­
munity Reinvestment Act, 
which requires banks to meet 
local credit needs, including ~those in poor neighborhoods. 
The law, on the books since 

1977, is aimed at preventing 
"red-lining," the practice of 
denying loans to an entire 
neighborhood based on the pre­
dominant race or economic 
class of its residents. 
"We hope this is the begin­

ning of a trend,'' said Allen 
Fishbein, general counsel of 
the Center for Community Change, a Washington-based group concerned with housing and community development. 
"The Fed has never denied an application on Community Reinvestment Act grounds before... This is a major breakthrough," he said. 
Continental's 14-month-old petition to acquire Grand Can­yon State Bank in Scottsdale, Ariz., was rejected on a 4-2 vote Wednesday, with board mem­bers H. Robert Heller and John La Ware opposed. Edward Kel­ley Jr. did not vote. 
"We feel that the Fed has fi­nally put teeth into the law," said Michael Zucker, an inter­national raepresentative of the Amalgamated· Clothing and Textile Workers Union, which had lodged a formal complaint against Continental's applica­tion. 
Zucker said Continental "never has done a good job of lending to the low-income and minority community of Chicago." He described Grand Canyon as a "boutique bank" catering to affluent customers in suburban Phoenix. 
=Ihe-=-Obsei:Ver-____= 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Page Editor 
For further infonnation, contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. 

IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO GET INVOLVED ON CAMPUS... OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE WITH S.U.B. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY jJ} 
Gain valuable LEADERSHIP AND MANAGERIAL EXPERIENCE as part of the Student Union Board. We create, advertise and carry out events that directly affect the entire Notre Dame community. Applications are available NOW for next year's SUB Executive Board positions and are due Feb. 22. Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner positions are due March 15. Pick up applications NOW from the S.U.B. Secretary's desk on the 2nd floor of Lafortune. 

,. 


• 

...""'.~. :: ~-.. ,
. . ·~ ~"' 
......·..·~. ·""'*\'''·· ·::.··· -·· ·,. 
' ·~~:.~~~ •: ~ ~~~~ 


"'' "-···-;J·;
. . ' . 
I . W:t'#>-.··-. ··.·•. 
~ -t <'~':· ' 

: .... ~~  _.....,.  ~::··  ..  -~~­ ~-=·  .  
AP Photo  
Washington State wildlife officials check out their first  head trout. un1cials decided to set a trap, capture  
captured sea lion Wednesday in Seattle, where sea  the sea lions, and then transport them off the Wash­ 
lions have been devastating runs of salmon and steel­ ington coast.  

Sea lion captured by wildlife agents dies 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE--One of two sea lions snared by wildlife agents in an attempt to protect migrat­ing fish died overnight before wildlife agents could return it to the ocean, officials said today. 
The 550-pound animal had a week-old bullet wound in its "eck and died Wednesday night after coming out from under an anesthesia administered so agents could attach a radio transmitter to track its future movements. 
Bob DeLong, a marine mam­mal biologist with the National Marine Fisheries Service, said the sea lion may have been shot by someone frustrated by the animal's continued presence at the Ballard Locks. 
At least a dozen sea lions, which migrate from southern California and Mexico, have stopped at the locks to feast on salmon and steelhead migrat­ing from the Pacific Ocean through Puget Sound to the freshwater lakes and rivers of Western Washington. 
Wildlife agents had planned to release the two captured sea 
lions  along  the  southwest  
Washington coast.  The effort  
has  been  dubbed  "Operation  
Goodbye."  

Previous efforts to remove the animals, including protec­tive nets, tape recordings of kil­ler whales, firecrackers and foul-tasting chemicals, have failed to stop the steelhead and salmon suppers. 
Some local fishing advocates have suggested the 20 or so beasts be shot, but they are protected by federal law. 
DeLong said a .22-caliber bullet wound was found in the throat of the sea lion, who was clearly sick even before he was trapped in the floating cage· of­
ficials have used to remove the 
hungry California sea lions. 
The dead sea lion also had a 
severe infestation of lung 
worms, he said. 
A second sea lion trapped in 
the floating cage also is not 
very healthy, DeLong said. 
"Blue eye," as he was dubbed 
even before his capture, is 
"blind in one eye and can't see 
out of the other" because of a 
cataract, DeLong said. 
DeLong said the dead sea lion stopped breathing after com­ing out from under anesthesia. The cause of death will be studied, he said. 
"Using anesthesia on the animal was one of the risks that went along with studying them,'' DeLong said. The bullet wound and lung infestation however "may have com­promised his ability . . . to withstand the anesthesia.'' 


# 1 EVENT OF SPRING WE WANT YOU!! 
GET INVOLVED!! BE CREATIVE!! LET'S PARTY!! 

PICK UP A GOLD FORM ... FILL IT OUT ... 
LEAVE IT WITH THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT SECRETARY 2na FLOOR LAFORTUNE BY fviONDAV FEB 20 
QUESTIONS ... CALL CHRIS X1204 
1989 


r: 
--_ ~------..............----~ 
r 
page 8 

Ind. may give death penalty in drug cases with murder 
The Observer Friday, February 17, 1989 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--The death penalty could be imposed against someone who intention­ally committed murder during a drug deal if a bill approved by the state Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday be­comes law. 
Senate Bill 562, sponsored by Sen. James Monk, D-Sullivan, is part of the governor's anti­drug package. 

t The bill cleared the commit­tee on a 7-2 vote despite objec­
( 
tions that expanding death penalty provisions wo~ld do nothing to deter such cnmes. 
Monk disagreed and stressed that the question of whether the death penalty should exist is a separate issue from his bill. The premise of S.B. 562 is, "If the death penalty exists, should this be part of it?" Monk said. 
Prosecutors in Indiana may seek the death sentence only if 
··•,r~ J-\ 
_..,,,. 
~ ~ 4~:,~ 



certain aggravating circum­stances exist. S.B. 562 would add murder while dealing in cocaine or narcotic drugs as one of those factors. 
Sen. Robert Hellmann, D­Terre Haute, attempted to amend the bill to specify that people who object to the death penalty could not be prevented from serving on a jury fQr that reason alone. 
Hellmann noted that the con­viction and death penalty por­tions of a case are handled sep­arately. 
Although a jury that convicts someone of murder later recommends whether the death penalty or life in prison should be imposed, the judge makes the final decision. 
"The purpose of the jury is to get a sense of community re­commendation," he said. 
' .., 
* 

4""'>:;;,~"JW; , "'"";_~· 'P:"',., 
.. ··· ~,,f ~, ~ • ..w';:'" 
• ijTJ'':at~~-,,.;;l'·"¥.., 14 ,... 
' 
. 
'.,_.,;t'­
I 

Maryann Cenedella, a sophomore, speaks to the soph-activities on Thursday in LaFortune. omore committee planning Junior Parents' Weekend 
Colonel held hostage may stiU be alive, says Shiite leader 
Associated Press killed by the Organization of Feb. 17, 1988. His 44th birthday 
TYRE, Lebanon--A Shiite the Oppressed on Earth, which was Jari. 19. Moslem leader said U.S. claimed respnosibility for the Marine Lt. Col. William Hig­abduction. A security source told the As­gins, abducted a year ago His militia claims to have un­sociated Press that members Friday while serving as a U.N. dercover agents who track of Amal tried to rescue Higgins observer, is alive despite his hostage developments. The three days after he was kid­
captors' statement that he was moderate Shiite movement, napped, but were overwhelmed sentenced to death as a spy. backed by Syria, opposes the by Hezbollah gunmen in the 
"He'll be released eventu-pro-Iranian fundamentalist villge of Jibcheet. ally" by the pro-Iranian Shiite Shiites who hold most of the 15 extremists who seized him, Westerners missing in He said 15 Amal fighters 'cin­said Abdul Majid Saleh, politi­Lebanon. filtrated Jibcheet the night of cal officer of the Amal militia Amal and the militia Hezbol­Feb. 20 last year and sur­in this ancient port 50 miles lah, believed to be an umbrella rounded the house where Hig­south of Beirut. group for those holding gins was being held. A dozen 
Higgins, from Danville, KY, hostages, were at war for gunmen were guarding Hig­commanded a 76-man U.N. Qb­months and nearly 600 people gins, but Amal was determined server group monitoring the were killed. They reached a to set him free. Lebanon-Israel border. He was peace agreement in January 
with mediation by Syria and
kidnapped by gunmen who "A few shots were fired, after stopped his car, 20 minutes Iran. which about 200 Hezbollahs after he had met with Saleh, on Militia officials and other surrounded the Amal men and the highway south of Tyre. sources interviewed in south disarmed them. A golden op­
Saleh would not say how he Lebanon shed new light on Hig­portunity to release Higginsknew Higgins had not been gins' abduction near Tyre on was lost." 
AP Photo
Winter Wonderland 

A record number of 310 snow and ice sculptures were entered in the 40th Snow Festival which opened Monday in Sapporo, the capital of northernmost main Japanese island of Hokkaido. The seven-day spec­tacle is expected to attract 2.5 million people. 

PREGNAtll MOTHERS: PLEASE DON'T.OKE! 

SPRING BREAK ·a 


L'VE GOT TO CALL TODAY.' L EoN 'r WAN r 
7D 8£ 5Tf.KK IN 
NOT!:£. !)AM£.1 
from s149' STEAMBOAT frams213· DAYTONA BEACH from s 118' MUSTANG ISLAND froms136' HILTON HEAD ISLAND froms10T 
DON'T WAIT 'TIL II'S TOO LATE! 
CALL TOLL FREETODA Y 
1-800-321-.5911 




Do you want to play a vital role in one of the most influential and respected organizations on campus? 
Student Union Board needs and encourages interested freshmen to help us create, advertise and carry out the events that affect the entire Notre Dame Community. 
There's NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. Simply choose your area of interest and apply. 

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL POSITIONS: 
(Applic_ations Due Feb. 22) 
Board Manager Director of Programming Director of Relations Director of Marketing Controller 
COMMISSIONER & ASSISTANT _COMMISSIONER POSITIONS: 
{Applications Due March 15 
Campus Entertainment Cultural Arts Ideas and Issues Movies Music Entertainment Publicity 
Services Special Events 




Viewpoint
Friday, February 17, 1989 page 9 
ND children need to-grow up 
In the comic strip "Calvin and Hobbes," Calvin maintains ~n ongoing relationship ·with a little girl named Susie. These two youngsters constantly torment each other with the ferocity of a South Bend winter. Although Calvin and Susie irritate one another, it is ev­ident they both like each other. This love-hate relationship is tolerated and even expected among six year-old children. Unfortunately, in the past few weeks, similar behavior has evidenced itself among another group of children-­the student body at Notre Dame. 
Tom Varnum 

third and long 
The weeks of sexist backbiting and journalistic counter-punching have provided a truly romantic prelude to Valentine's Day. Girls accusing boys of being perverted, magazine-reading sex-fiends; boys accusing girls of being overweight, conceited, ice maidens. (Author's note: I use the terms "girls" and "boys" because we are not acting like men and women). Frankly folks, this has got to stop. Do you think the administration will listen to any student input on divestment, co-ed housing or the alcohol policy when they see us fighting among ourselves about hero-
Recycling requires student support 
Dear Editor: 

In 1980, the study group initiated by President Carter to study the global en­vironment produced The Global 2000 Report to the President of the U.S.: En­tering the 21st Century. The report con­cluded: "If present trends continue, the world in the year 2000 will be more crowded, more polluted, less stable ecologically, and more vulnerable to disruption than the world we live in now. Serious stresses involving popula­tion, resources, and environment are clearly visible ahead." The environ­mental degradation which caused a public uproar in the 1970's remains even more relevant for the world today. Global warming has continued; popu­lation still expands; deforestation and worship and the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue? Judging by the maturity displayed in the past few weeks, it's a wonder rectors don't read us a bedtime story, tuck us in and kiss us good night. 
The whole mess began with the publicity surrounding the swimsuit issue. Some girls cried foul. They con­demned men for supporting the annual exploitation of women. Articles were written in The Observer; responses soon followed. The flame was fanned by another article last week. That ar­ticle chronicled the adventures of a hero-worshipping girl who thrilled at meeting members of the football team. This enraged the less athletic men on campus and the battle lines were drawn. Since then the fight has been waged in classrooms, dining halls and dorms across campus. People, it's time to end Notre Dame's battle of the sexes. 
The time has come for us to stop act­ing like six year-old comic strip char­acters. We continually plead with the administration to treat us as adults, yet we continue to act like children. There are far too many barriers separating the sexes on this campus, yet we are building additional ones. We all live to­gether here, so it would be nice if we could play together without throwing sand in each other's faces. 
First of all, we have got to take these things a little less seriously. People have been looking at pictures of mem­bers of the opposite sex since Mr. Eastman first said "cheese." Long after we've outgrown these vices, people will still do it. Both men and women partake in this relatively harm­less activity. Men whistle at women, women whistle at men. In the Keenan Revue, two of the acts included scantily clad male dancers. While these performers were dancing, the women in the crowd whistled and hooted. Did these finely tuned dancers feel ex­ploited? No, they were just having fun. Both sexes enjoy looking at members of the opposite (or same) sex. 
Trite as this may sound, let he (or she) who is without sin cast the first stone. We are all guilty of admiring the body of a beautiful person. Why this fact continues to ·bother people is beyond me. Ifthese people have worked hard to become models, why shouldn't we acknowledge their effort? I'm sure I'll merit some blistering responses for this, but the Sports Illustrated models are not exploited. They are not forced to pose and are paid quite handsomely. Exploitation of both sexes does exist in the world, but you won't find it in Sports Illustrated (nor Notre Dame football players, for that matter). 
Boys and girls, we are all in this to-

animal extinction have increased, and the garbage of our "throw-away" soci­ety piles up at unprecedented rates. What can be done in the face of such an eco-catastrophe? 
Here at the University, we can form­ulate a comprehensive recycling pro­gram, one that goes beyond just food and aluminum cans, and includes news­paper, computer paper, and cardboard. Yet it will be necessary to pressure the administration into adopting such a program. However, why recycle? 
First, the amount of waste produced by the average New Yorker in one day is about four pounds, and the total amount of waste generated per year in the U.S. is 150 million tons. Here at Notre Dame, we go through 200 pounds of aluminum cans and 5,565 pounds of newsprint each week. The environmen­tal and economic impact of this blatant waste detracts from our national health, disrupts the biosphere, and con­flicts with the Christian environmental ethic of stewardship of and harmony with the earth. Recycling is an effective way to slow the buildup of greenhouse gases and the pollutants that contribute to acid rain. 
Secondly, recycling can be both en­vironmentally beneficial and cost­effective. According to the Worldwatch Institute, by simply recovering the print run of a Sunday edition of the New York Times, 75,000 trees would be saved. 
Therefore, the time has arrived for the transition from extractive indus­tries to the use of recycled materials. Progressive cities, such as Seattle, and universities, such as Brown, Wisconsin, 

gether. Whining and moaning about 
how poorly we treat each other will not 
help. There is only one way to end this 
insidious issue: GROW UP! Although 
we have been acting a bit childish late­
ly, I think we can still distinguish be­
tween dream and reality. Looking at 
girls in bathing suits or worshipping 
football players are exercises in fan­
tasy. Living at Notre Dame is reality. 
The sooner everyone remembers that, 
the better. 
The inane, superficial dispute must 
end. In acting like children, we have lost the respect and tolerance of the faculty and staff. On this campus, there are dozens of more important issues to be concerned about than the battle of the sexes. This little spat has gone on far too long. The swimsuit issue has · been out for a week; the hero-worship of football players has reared its ugly head; and, of course, I've gotten my two cents in. Hopefully, this will help put an end to this little skirmish. Since we've just passed Valentine's Day, I think the boys and girls at Notre Dame 
should kiss and make up. 
And if you don't, you'll be sent to your 
room for the rest of the semester. And 
don't think I won't do it either. When 
your father gets home... 
Tom Varnum is a senior English and communications major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O. Box Q 
and Rutgers, have already successfully engaged in comprehensive recycling programs. The success of CILA's can drive and the Foodshare program dem­onstrate the feasibility of a comprehen­sive recycling program here. · 
As a Catholic university, we too must accept the responsibilities of protecting nature. So, take direct action by sup­porting Notre Dame's Environmental Action Team and stop by our informa­tional meeting on Feb. 21 at 9 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns, or hear our guest lecturer, Dr. Ching, on Feb. 22 at 4:30 p.m., also at the CSC. Dr. Ching, the director of the National Recycling Coalition, will speak on this vital environmental issue and attempt to begin a recycling program here. 
Michael Leahy Dillon Hall 
Feb. 15, 1989 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
r------------------------------------,
1 ANOTHeR THING ABOUT • 
• GE:ORG& BUSH, MARJ<.. · fT IA/IU. 
HE (,f){SN'T JlET TALl< sti<V& J ABOUT fAMilY VAWES,. ~ A5/W !. H& LilieS THBM! · ~' IWJRA­
:~I TION70 
USAU!
(T
. 

t  
•  
=Ihe=ObserYer---=  Editorial Board  Otserations Board  
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9)239-5303  Ed1tor·tn·Ch1ef Managmg Ed1tor  .. Chns Murphy Busmess Manager . Chns Donnelly AdvertiSing Des1gn Manager ..  John Oxnder . Molly Killen  
News Editor  Regts Coccta Adverttsing Manager  Ltnda Goldschrr;ctt  
The Observer ts the Independent newspaper published by the students of the UnnterSity of  News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager.  Bernadene Shtlts  
NOire Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es of  Viewpomt Ed1t1;.1  ..... Dave Bruner Systems Manager  Mark R1dgeway  
the admmtstrallon of e1ther 1nslltut10n The news 1s reported as accurately and ObJeCtively as  Sports Ed1tar  Marty Strasen Controller  Todd Hardiman  
poss1ble Unstgned ed1tonals represent the optn1on of the ma1onty of the Ed1tonal Board  Accent Ed1tor  . Beth Healy GraphiC Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the vtews of thetr authors. Column  Samt Marv·s Edttor  . Sandy Cerimele  
S!Jace 1s ava1lable to all members of the communtty and the tree express1on of vary1ng  Photo Edttor  Mtehael Moran  
op1mons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged  
Founded November 3,1966  

. lr5 THe THEY !<16HT. I I THINK EJUSHfZ,. {i){)tl? -reJt 7H&M : U/6 HAV£7 lH&Y WANT JIET 70Use 1 A CALJ.a<, A COPY OF atP!7: 7H& 1 
HARVeY. 7HIS FOR D1-=.1h rYTrTcn I 
7H&IR FRJ~. !Vorl/;-VVT I~
\ / I t./Ne5. I 
I 

Quote of the Day 
'The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it.' 
-Fingal O'Fiahertie 
1-~-----·----~·------•=~·~·~·~--~~---·~;~~•~~=..~....a........as.-u....._a..~&..II&....I!..ISIII!..I&IIIIII!ZIIIEIIIIII..IIII..& 111111111111111 
t 
!
II 
i i. 
I 
I 
I I 
I 

Friday 
Movies: 

"This is Spinal Tap" Eng. Audit. 8 and 10:15 p.m. "Hope and Glory" Annenburg Audit. 7:30 and 9:45 Music: Harpist Harvi Griffin plays at 7 p.m. at Theodore's. Tickets are 
free. 

Saturday 
Movies: "Moonstruck" at the Eng. Auditorium at 8 and 10. Music: Catholics in Bad Standing at Theodore's at 10 p.m. 
Sunday 
Music: 

Piano Recital. William Cerny, a faculty member of the music department, will give a recital at 2 p.m. in the Annenburg 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
\\l, ~S"'l't~. 0\0 'fOJ H~'lt. 
AQ\l\ET t'IEN\WG? t)\0 'fO\l 
GtT iCIJR 5TUO'(\NG OONt? 
~oo·~ Sl/11£ ttl C>M£
I'~ SORR~, S\>T 

RS£ \N U\\5 TO~~
ln"'\Q\T \S Rtf\\.Li 

GO\NG \0 COS\ '(QU. 'ft\\1. ~££ TO ~-S\\ CA\.'HN? 

SCOTT KARNEY  tables or lean against dirty  
accent writer  walls, while the blues roll in a  
slow wave over the entire  
T he home of Chicago blues is no longer the city's southside in bars like the leg­endary Checker­board Lounge. Today the best  club, a wave that gathers mo­mentum as the night goes on. The people that frequent the Mines vary greatly. I've often found myself sandwiched between a pork  
blues in the Windy City, and  belly trader in a blue suit and  
probably the best blues in the  power tie and a smelly,  
world, blast from clubs on the  stoned drunk. Last Friday I  
near-northside streets of  shared a table with a slimy,  
Halsted and Belmont. Kingston Mines, located at at 2548 N. Halsted, is prob­ably the premier bar when it  balding 45-year-old man who was disgustingly attempting to secure an evening of pas­sion with a drunken 24-year­ 
comes to Chicago blues. The  old bimbo. These two people,  
bar, which has been open for  sad as they were, added to  
about eight years, serves up  the fun of my evening in their  
live music seven nights a  own special way. The diver­ 
week. But it's more than just  sity of a Kingston Mines  
the music that makes Kingston Mines unique. This long, dark club creates an ambience so conducive to the  crowd, all packed together in a sweaty, smokey mess, add to the feeling and taste of live blues.  
blues that most people have a  During the week, the club  
hard time not enjoying them­ only uses one stage. Crowds  
selves.  don't really seem to suffer all  
The club is divided into two  that much, however. The  
long rooms which are  music is still fast and rather  
separated by a wall and the bar. Each room has its own  furious or sometimes slow and solid. Whatever the mood  Some of the bands which  Drink Booze, and  
stage, and on weekends both stages are in use to offer con­stant music. Just when one band needs a break from the sweat-filled passion of singing the blues, another band starts to howl from the depths of the tiny stage in the adjacent room. Mysteriously drawn by some magical force, the crowd rises and glides effort­lessly into the next room. People sit at long communal  of the band, they still play un­til 4 a.m. Cover Sunday-Thursday is $4, a dollar or two more than most Chicago blues clubs, but well worth the money. Friday and Saturday covers usually run about $7-8, but the club has non-stop music on both of its stages and stays open until 5 a.m. Beer costs $2-3 a bottle and goes down nice and easily admidst the heat and smoke of the cramped bar.  headline on weekends at the Mines include Sugar Blue, Otis Rush, Junior Wells, and Jimmy Johnson. Dion Payton's 43rd St. Blues Band works the second stage every Friday and Saturday night and provides a nice compli­ment to the main act. Kingston Mines' own slogan probably sums up their spirit better than anything I could say. They claim the Mines is the place to "Hear Blues,  VVhoeverthought 1 motto ought to ha, brain bronzed. Taken together, the beer, and the l sounds of Kingstor a near sensory ovE weren't for the fac blues has that tast effect that is so ha legally, many peot not return from th Kingston Mines ali  
Ha ngin' out at  ] 

MARK McLAUGHLIN accent writer 

he menu and ad­ment. 

•
vertising for Len­The menu is very reason­ny's American ably priced: we ate for $11 Grill say "the and were stuffed. The most 
rev1ew
beginning of an old expensive dish on the menu is 

tradition." Well, I don't know the Hot Meatloaf Plate, with about that, but it is the begin­potatoes, gravy, soup, and We ordered the chili, french ning of cheap, good food. vegetable, all for a big $3.95. fries, and the oniorr rings, 
The motif is sort of '50s A mix of sandwiches and taking advantage of those diner. It's not Ed Debevic's, burgers are also served, most cheap prices. The clilli was but it does have a jukebox for under $3; with potato brought out first by: a with lots of oldies, from the chips and a pickle. The half­waitress that was a bit over­Beach Boys to Frank Sinatra. pound Big Al ($2.98), Andy's worked but courteous. It was There're old-time root beer Stuffed Burger ($2.55), and watery, but not too bad; and float glasses, a fair amount of the Chili Burger ($2.35) all for once in South Bend it was Mickey Mouse on the walls, looked pretty good. decently spiced. The cheese and a picture of James Dean There is also a long list of fries were the curlique kind in the back. The place does side dishes: homemade chili with cheddar cheese spread reek hole-in-the-wall, but as ($.95), cheese fries ($1.05) melted all over. Rather im­many truck drivers know, the and onion rings ($1.05) to pressively, they actually hole-in-the-wall places often name a few. Thev even have didn't taste like cardboard have the best food. Lenny's Green River and root beer like most french fries. The ain't bad in the food depart-floats . onion rings were on the thin 
./ 
( : ) : · 
r I 

11 

Friday, February 17, 1989 

Drink.Booze, and Talk Loud." Whoever thought up that motto ought to have their brain bronzed. 
Taken together, the blues, the beer, and the bellowing sounds of Kingston Mines are a near sensory overload. If it weren't for the fact that good blues has that tasty, numbing effect that is so hard to attain legally, many people would not return from the depths of Kingston Mines alive. 
COLLEEN CRONIN Hendrix created new limits accent writer for the guitar. 
Sugar himself said to the t .. ; lues harmonicist Boston Herald that "great Sugar Blue will be players have always changed appearing at The the tradition. If you try and Center Street Blues maintain a tradition, you take . Cafe tonight and a musician and turn him into 
tomorrow at 9:30p.m., and a caretaker." they are sure to be riveting Sugar sees blues as the root shows. of rock, jazz, and even 
Sugar has been hailed as an country/western, and can play harmonica virtuoso, and pre­any of them. "The blues is vious reviews rave of Sugar's the momma, and the momma 
high-intensity performances can raise all her kids no mat­and his incredible speed. City ter what you call them." Pages says that Sugar "wails 
·:~i.>;

like a banshee, a jazzman, a In concert, says City Pages, 
21-year-old Joshua Bell will be playing at the Morris Civic 
tornado, and metamorphoses Sugar seems to have been 
Auditorium tomorrow night at 8:15.
like a phoenix, at each and "kissed by demon fire" and every gig." "could blow a band off a 
Sugar was born Richard stage...just him, his harp Whiting in New York but (harmonica) and his demon." moved to Paris, where he Due to the intensity of his 
Young violinist 
was discovered by the Rolling playing, his vocals tend to Stones. He made appearances take a backseat and pale in on three Stones albums and is comparison, but that is no best known for his distinctive drawback to the overall show. 
plays South Bend 
solo in "Miss You." He went International Musician and on to record five of his own Recording World desribed albums, one of which won a Sugar having "the habit of Grammy Award in 1985. making it seem as if he's put­
For the past six years ting on his last, desperate STEPHANIE SNYDER and Royal Philharmonic Or­Sugar has been living and performance," and his perfor­accent writer chestra. He, has also per­playing in Chicago, the home mances have been described 
formed solo with the Philadel­
of modern blues and the host as everything from furious to loomington, In­phia Orchestra, National of the Annual Blues Fest, strange. diana's own Joshua Symphony, Los Angeles Phil­though he is far better known Bell is no ordinary harmonic, and the sym­in France. His claim to fame, It's been said that Sugar violinist. From a phonies of Saint Louis (with 
says the Boston Globe, is his Blue can get many different _ young, teenage boy which he made his debut at "distinctive harmonica style things out of his "harp," and obsessed with the violin, Bell Carnegie Hall in 1985), that emphasizes horn-like pure music is one of them. has become a world renowned Montreal, Toronto, Pittsburgh phrasing and lightning-like His show this weekend at violinist at the age of 21. and Indianapolis, to name a high-note runs." It has been Center Street will be the per­During these mere 21 years, few. said that Sugar is creating fect opportunity to experience he has not only toured Bell's original excitement new limits for the blues har­his magic for yourselves. throughout Europe, but also and determination to perform monica the way that Jimi Cover is $5. performed in Australia and his music seems evident as 
Japan, and frequently makes he makes future plans to appearances in the U.S. and debut with the New York Canada. Philharmonic under Charles 
Bell will be much closer to Dutoit and proposes recital his hometown tomorrow when debuts in Berlin, Amsterdam, 

he performs with the South and London . 
Bend Symphony in the Morris Another rung to Bell's suc­
.tat Lenny's 
Civic Auditorium at 8:15p.m. cess was added when he be­"Lenny's Biscuits and He will play the Sibilelius came the first violinist in tenGravy" ($2.10). 
Violin Concerto, which, Bell years to be signed exclusively Lenny's is on S.R. 23 at told the South Bend Tribune, by London Records. Cur­• side but were also tasty. Ironwood, sort of across from is a favorite of his that he rently, he has three albumsThe bacon cheeseburger Martin's. If you know where learned when he was only 15. out on the market, has justwas big, obviously freshly University Pizza Delivery is, At the young age of 12 and completed two others, and is 
view 
made, and had plenty of it's right next door. 
under the instruction of Josef striving to complete an addi­bacon and cheese. The Hours are (right now) 5:30 Gingold, a professor at In­tional two before the year ischicken sandwich was fairly a.m. to 7 p.m., Monday diana University's School of through.
!d the chili, french hefty and fried up good, with through Thursday; 5:30a.m. 
1e oniorr rings, 
Music, Bell's extraordinary Despite all his achieve­
a dollop of mayonnaise or tar­to 9 p.m., Friday and Satur­career .took a foothold. In 1982 ments, Bell professed to thentage of those tar sauce or something. Both day; and 7 a.m. to 2:30p.m.
:;. The chili was as a 14-year-old, he became South Bend Tribune an anx­
were greasy but good--about on Sunday. You can call 
first by. a the youngest guest soloist at a iety which he attributed to
what you'd expect from a ahead and carry out, but I'd Philadelphia Orchestra sub­the attitudes of persons his tt was a bit over­diner. go back just to hang out over scription concert, conducted own age. He realizes that fewcourteous. It was The root-beer float did hit coffee and chili fries. 
not too bad; and by Riccardo Muti. of them have any interest in
the spot. 

Since then, Bell's calendar classical music. These iouth Bend it was The manager assured me has been filled with guest per­worries are most likelyced. The cheese Breakfast items were avail­that Lenny's would be open 
1e curlique kind formances. He and his relieved with the realization 
able, with a basic Sunrise later in the spring; according 
r cheese spread Breakfast ($2.75) of two eggs, to him, they used to open un­$250,000 1726 Stradivarius that at each of Bell's violin have been engaged as concerts--which add up to
ver. Rather im­bacon or sausage, til 3 a.m. He also said Len­
hey actually guests with many of the top about 100 per year--there is
hashbrowns, and toast and ny's had applied for a beer orchestras in the world, in­always an audience waiting toLike cardboard jam. Short order omelettes, and wine license, which would 
mch fries. The cluding the London Symphony hear him.
pancakes and french toast are add a new dimension to a po­.vere on the thin also on the menu, along with tential cult spot: 
etc. 

page 12 Friday, February 17, 1989 
JPW, the Virgin Mary, and Dad 
N
either of my parents ever dogmas about her. Catholic laid eyes on Notre Dame. theology doesn't begin to get My mother was never well sophisticated until you accept enough to make the long trip the mystery of Christ as the out here from Maine, even Word made flesh. The theo­when I graduated in 1949. My logy of the Incarnation ]ias father died when I was a col­the tightness and beauty of a lege freshman. metaphysical poem in honor 
Dear old Dad was a WASP, of Christ. You can't imagine and his WASPishness was His life without remembering never in fuller fig than when the way Our Lady was a: part he was considering the pomps of it, from alpha to omega: and vain pretensions of the as the maiden of Nazareth, to Catholic Church. He would whom the glad tidings were 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 


have been like a fish out of water in this Emerald City, with the Woman in Gold on the Dome as its chatelaine. I never wrote to tell him of Our Lady who stands tall in the Gospel, like a candle that lights the face of Christ. How could I? I was too young, and he died too soon. 
Perhaps religious symbols are like poems that should not mean, but be. But if there are Junior Parents anywhere, Catholic· or Protestant, to whom Our Lady is a supersti­tion foisted by priests on the minds of mere children, why shouldn't I tell them what the Dome and the Grotto mean to me? I offer them the letter, like a love song to Our Lady, that I never wrote to my fa­ther. 
To understand about Mary, you don't start with the brought; as the Sorrowful Mother of the Pieta. 

Mary is the Morning Star and Evening Star of divine revelation, and the dogmas about her are like pegs that hold truths from the Gospel in place as part of the Creed. But how could I have told my father this when I was twenty years old? 
At his retirement, Father Hesburgh said: "When I was a young priest, I travelled around the world to visit the great Marian shrines. When I saw the campus again, I decided that, though Our Lady visits those other places, she makes her home at Notre Dame." 
When you make a habit of visiting the Grotto, you appre­ciate Notre Dame as a place dear to Our Lady, where she's always at home to you. 
As a student, I used to think that when I said Uie rosary, I was praying to Our Lady. If it's only a repetition of Hail Marys, the rosary must be the shallowest prayer in the world. When you're very tired, you hope the Hail Marys are enough, if, in saying them, you're trying to be faithful to the will of God, wide open to His love. 
But if prayer is to be a genuine lifting of the heart and mind to God, you have to pay attention to the mysteries of the rosary; and so you try, as intensely as you can, to meditate on Christ, and on the meaning of His ministry, the resurrection, and the side trips He took to Jerusalem. Then it becomes plain that Our Lady had no life at all apart from Jesus; and that she, from her experience, must be the embodiment of the Gospel. Whatever truth the Gospels contain, she was cherishing in her heart before the Gospels were written. 
For me, saying the rosary is a way of asking Our Lady, as an instrument of the Paraclete, to show me the lights I need for prayer; for serious prayer to God can be heavy-duty stuff, and I'm not always in the mood to pray. Using the mysteries of each decade as a prelude to prayer, I ask Our Lady: "Walk with me, please, through the good days and the bad days of your son's '­time on earth, and let me see truth I can grow on." Mter trying to look at Christ through the eyes of His mot­her, I rouse myself spiritually to make the acts of love and contrition that stand at the gateway to deep prayer. 

What does it mean to have faith? Faith is Mary walking with the women to the tomb of Christ, so that they can anoint the body. ''Who,'' they were asking, "will roll away the stone that seals up the door?" When they got there, the stone was already rolled away, as they trusted it would be. What does faith mean? It means that you keep walking on the path of Christian service, even if there are discouraging roadblocks in the way. 
Why do I ask Mary to show me God's will? It's not be­cause she's a demi-goddess whom Catholics rely·on in­stead of giving God the glory. Our Lady is trustworthy as a prayer partner because she's a redeemed human being who found her fulfillment in doing God's will. Allowing me to have recourse to Mary as the mirror of truth is one of the ways God shows His great kindness to me. In the dogma of her Assumption, I can see His fidelity to a creature out­standing for her fidelity to Him. Sex is not a corruption, but in a world which has cor­rupted sex, God invites the Church to celebrate the awesome purity of Mary, im­maculately conceived, "our tainted nature's solitary boast." 
Gerard Manley Hopkins wrote a poem comparing the Blessed Virgin to the air we breathe--for without the Earth's atmosphere covering us, we would die from the heat of the sun. In a similar way, says Hopkins, the glory of God--in whose intense pres­ence no creature can survive­-is mediated to us by the humanity which the Virgin Mary shares with her son, who uses it like a garment that keeps His brightness from blinding us. 
In the years that spread out like the days of a novitiate, Our Lady has been faithful in keeping the night-watch in the Grotto near the lake, by the candles' red flames. Like the blood in the bricks of the place, and the echoes that shake down from the thunder rising up from the stadium, her presence among us as "Notre Dame du lac" is a permanent part of the myth. Feeling herself much loved, she has loved us much. 
Our Lady has shrines which the Junior Parents may have visited, but Notre Dame as home phite isn't like any of them. The sun doesn't dance, and you will not see miracles, and the lame don't leave their crutches behind them. In the Grotto at night, you can hear the ducks splashing in the lake. Then the quiet time comes, peace descends, and you can feel your soul clap­ping its hands in praise of 
see Griffin, page 14 


·.·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::.::::::::;.;.;.:.:::.:::::.:::.;.·.·.·.........·.···································.:.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.:.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:····=·.·::: 
:=: 
1. Please circle: graduate student, undergraduate student ,I 
::::: 
·:·:·
..... 
::::: 
:·:-:
2. Would you prefer extended evening library hours? 
::::, 
·:·:
If so, until when? ·.·. 
·.·. 
3. Please rank what you feel is the most important: 
__extended library hours \Ill :::: 
__ extended periodical room hours extended reserve book room hours I 
:::: 
I·.·. 
4. Should there be a 24-hour computing facility?_______ 
If so, circle a location: library, LaFortune Student Center, Architecture Bldg., other ________ 
Ill 
::::
.·.· 
Please fold in half and drop the survey in campus mail :::: 
~--------------------------------------------! 
CAMPUS MAIL 
/ 
SURVEY 

Stud~nt Government LaFortune Student Center 


Friday, February 17, 1989 
The Observer page 13 
Her$hi$er gets top contract 
·Associated Press million in 1990 and $2.8 million --Hershiser's average annual 
in 1991. salary of $2,633,333 broke the 
LOS ANGELES--Ore! Her­"This contract is historic in its record of $2.5 million set Wed­
shiser capped a record-setting nature," Los Angeles general nesday by Boston right-hander 
season with a record-setting manager Fred Claire said: Roger Clemens. 
contract Thursday, agreeing to The 30-year-old right---Hershiser would get 
a three-year, $7.9-million deal hander's deal with the Dodgers $3,166,667 in 1991, including a 
with the Los Angeles Dodgers set several records: prorated share of the signin~ 
that makes him the highest­--Including a prorated share bonus, making him the first $3 
paid player in baseball history of the $1.1 million signing million baseball player unless 
and the sport's first $3 million bonus, Hershiser will make someone beats him to it in 1990. 
man. $2,766,667 this season, the high­"I'm glad that it's over 
Hershiser, the National est salary of any player, top­with," Hershiser said at a 
League Cy Young Award win­ping the $2,466,677 of Bal­Dodger Stadium news confer­
ner last year and the most valu­i.imore's Cal Ripken. ence a little more than two 
able player in the NL playoffs --Hershiser's raise of hours after an agreement had 
and World Series, will receive $1,666,667 broke the record of been reached. "Deep down, 
a $1.1 million signing bonus, $1,326,442 set on Feb. 1 by this is what I wanted, to remain 
$2.4 million this season, $1.6 Toronto's Jimmy Key. -a Dodger.'' 
Neck injury sidelines Buckeye star 
Atisociated Press . 
a halo traction brace for the three months," Murphy said. 
COLUMBUS, Ohio--A broken next three months. "There's no reason why he 
bone in his neck has ended the Murphy said the injury most can't play basketball at that 
college basketball career of Jay likely occurred midway time, if he S(} desires." 
Burs,.,n, Ohio State's 6-foot, !56-through the first half of Mon­Burson, who is being treated 
pound guard. day night's loss to Iowa when at the Ohio State University
Dr. Robert J. Murphy, the Burson fell under a backboard. Hospital, sustained no spinal team doctor, said Thursday Burson, a senior, played most cord damage, the doctor said. that Burson sustained a frac­of the second half and finished Murphy said he had twice Los Angeles Dodger pitcher Orel Hershiser signed a ture of the front surface of the with 25 points. diagnosed similar injuries in record-breaking contract Thursday. The Cy Young award winner fifth cervical vertebra, and his "If everything goes as ex­his 37 years with Ohio State and became baseball's first $3 million dollar man, surpassing Roger neck would be immobilized in pected, he should be well in "all resulted in quadriplegia." Clemens of Boston. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is
-Ciassifieds 3 p.m. Ali classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
I LOST:A BROWN PEN GOVERNMENT JOBS! SUMMER JOBS ATTENTION NO! I desperately need ride back to NO from CASE(RENOMA)WITH 4 NOW HIRING THIS AREA! $10,213 TO ALLLANDWATER SPORTS WHAT IS THAT ON DARLENE'S NJ on 3·12. Peter x2124 will share
NOTICES PENS(PERKER)ON 14TH IN $75,473. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS FINGER?!! driwexp. O'SHAUGHNESS OR LAW SCOOL.I 733-6062 EXT. F·2382H. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS TYPING AVAILABLE LOVE THEM!IF FOUND PLEASE CALL NEAR LAKE PLACID DR. ARMSTRONG· NANC and KATH, 287·4082 KEIKO(INT'L PEACE HOUSE 283· DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO CALL 1-800-343-8373 MY NAME IS ANNE Congrats on london! We never doubt 3943.PLESE HELP POOR JAPANESE!! LAUDERDALE FOR SPRING BREAK 2 ed it! We'll miss you PEOPLE TO GO # 3270 DAVE 
Love, TyplngWordprocasslng SOPHOMORES P~GY ABOOD TURNS 19 ON THE Keara and Erika
LOST·2 KEYS ON A PINK KEYCHAIN
237-1949 $$$ I NEED 5 LOUISVILLE TICKETS SOPHOMORES 19TH!!! HAPPY B-DAY BYRON, WE
AT THE MORRISSEY SYR. IF FOUND, 
$$$ 283·2814 DAY/271-8639 NIGHT The DATING GAME is coming! LOVE YOU!!!!
PLEASE CALL 2853. 

Markus, TYPING term papenrteport&" let­ADOPTION LAURA N. Absolutely, but we need toFOUND: A pair of purple ladies mittens
terstesumes. Loving,secure married couple unable to My eye's on you! talk ... over the table. Agreed?
ir'l the ladtes restroom at the Comp·Math 
Pick up & delivery available. 2n-5134 conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le· TJ Claire Annette
FOR SALE
Bldg. Mn.ntght. Call 3688 to tdenltty.
10AM-8PM. gal,medical exp. Pis call collect Chris & PS What's wrong with beer? 
CATHOLICSSusan, 703'276·9751 Completely con·

Can't read this ad? I found your glasses!! CA"fHOLICS IN
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL PICCOLO. silver, Armstrong. $200 like fidential. 
Found: Gold wire-rimmed glasses in hard CATHOLICS IN BAD
MRS. COKER. 233-7009. new. Mary 287·4336 RUTHIE AND BEXblack case on February 9th in rm 204 CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING
ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure Dearest "gid" looking roomies..

Nieuwland Science Hall. Call K3781 and IN BAD STANDING
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for '85 FORD ESCORT GT couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry Congratulations!!! I am such a proud mol­CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash 5 SPEED.BLACK,AIR,CASSETTE wish to love. cherish, and raise your new· her.
see again' BAD STANDING STANDING
or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK STEREO,MICHELINS born child. legal and confidentiaL Please LOVE, MUSHwooden name
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. LOST! Set of keys on 55,750 call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877· keychain, 219, evening, between O'Shag Escape JPW with CIBS-a 9-piece dance 
Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 277·8892 3574 STEVE,
and BP. PLEASE call x1363, Colleen, band playing classics, pop, and progres·
233-2342 STEALING FROM THE UNIVERSITY IS 
wlany info. ASAP!! sive music.
NEED AIRLINE TICKET! I'M SELLING I need a ride from anyone going to or by 
WRONG!!!

THEODORE's, sat 18th, 10pm 272-3827 PIEDMONT FlYS IN U.S. CALL DIEGO 283-4050 CORNELL 
Wordprocesslng·Typing ROUNDTRIP PASS TO ANYWHERE Dayton, OH leaving 3-3 or 314 call x4431. 
ROSI LOZADA! Get well fast! We love WERGNA YARG:
ya! Love, The 2-South Gang. We have. what you love, you lech!
GOING THAT WAY 314? RETURNING 

SAVE TIME! "How To Report On a Book 79 MIDGET EXC. COND. LOW MILAGE. 3'12? NEED A RIDER? X2966
FORRENT 
I 

Going to NEW YORK? Have one round·
You Haven't Actually Read." Send 294·5699 YLLOM & Zll (Moses)
trip,Chicago·NY·Chicago,First-Ciass FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK­open date ticket. Interested? Call Bert, ....... 
$10: Box 15071 Columbus. OH 432t5 Have to be here lor Break? Make $s! 
Matt King, a blind student. needs readers 

FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL '83 CHEVY IMPALA 4 dOOrs excellent X4115 I Desperately need a nde to Gainesville,
both now and over break. Call 1681.

FOR All NO ACTIVmES. RESERVE cond. $1500 CALL 2n 7291 FL for spring break. Exact dates flexible. NOW FOR All UPCOMING EVENTS. Call Karen 284-5439
I need a ride near CLEVELAND lor spring 616-471·5711. GORGEOUS 78 DATSUN 280Z. $2300. 
. K.S. to explain: live reds for five months, break.Anyone going east on rt 80 please 

one white forever.

234-2579 call Brian x2124 will share $$. Ned-I've quizzed my two chums You 2 ROOM EFFICIENCY SINGLE PER· know, George and Bess Do they know 
I LOST/FOUND I 
THE CHARITY BALL 

SON 288-0955 OPPORTUNITY!!!! Ticket For Sale South who you are Because they won't confess 
Mum & Dad Geibel Bend-Durham (NC),March 8,89, (1 way)
LOST: 30 Macintosh diskettes from my IS COMING SOON!! 
Mom & Dad Bedics ·Nancycar in Ct. The impo11ance of those disks 
BED 'N BREAKF"ST REGISTRY. 219-$ SO!,Call Volker 288·7929 Mom & Dad Gomez ..... ·-·-····-· ..................................... . 
cannot be exagerated. $$$ for informa· 
291-7153. Get ready to party at JPW!I BETH, BRIGID, DESI, ELAINE, TRACY
lion leading to the return of them. Please DJ NEEDED: SYR FEB 25th. CALL, TOM 
I 
Don't worry about comps, remember:
call # 4936 or 289·1628. Or if you already AT x2742. 
HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D. BEAUTY
Love,have them, please r.eturn them to 230 

683-8889-277-3097. TRUTH
Debbie,Knott Hall. No quesllons asked. 
TICKETS 
LOOVE

Keli 2 HOUSES FOR RENT (4 BR & 5 BR) Thank you St. Jude lor the ordination of and Cheryl
..................... ·········· a female liberal black bishop. Now let's
IN SAME BLOCK. FURNISHED,VERY need louiseville GA and Stu x3517 EUGENEIll
LOST: A PAIR OF BURGUNDY try for one in the Roman church.
GOOD CON DITION, SAFE Dear Biz Heskett. 
GLASSES IN A CASE SOMEWHERE 
NEIGHBORHOOD.233-9947 AFTER 5 NEED GRADUATION TIX. If you only Well if I looked all over this And Saturday night we'll drop these
BETWEEN HAGGAR AND 02 P·LOT AT Swim away from JPW at the FRESH­
OR 287·3530 need 2 or 3 & are willing to apply for world, I don't think I would find someone studious "masks."
NO OR SOMEWHERE AROUND MEN WINTER BEACH PARTY 
more, I will pay$$. Call Pete at 2n·4165 so true-·someone ltke you. I know rt GOOD LUCK!! 
MCCANDLESS, ITS PARKING LOT, OR 
maybe too late, but ya know I cannot Love, Mere
THE DINING HALL AT ST. MARY'S. Freshmen Winter BeliCh Party at wait. What should I do? I still love you.
ANY INFO, PLEASE CALL 284·5409 
Rolfes Aquatic Center February 17 8­Love,
I PERSONALS I 
Bill Picht 

Turbo, LOST: A BLACK EELSKIN WALLET 23 huh? That ain't right. You
WANTED 10pm 
Activities at the FRESHMEN WINTER Thank you very much lor the Pina Colada 
THURSDAY NIGHT EITHER IN FRONT Hey Sexy-GET SOME better hurry up or you'll pass
BEACH PARTY include water volleyball and the nachos. 

OF BRIDGETS OR SOMEWHERE BE· -Dictated by Hormones your peak. Who said that? Hope
and basketball and innertube water polo Tim 
TWEEN D-1 PARKING LOT AND BADIN COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire your b-day is wicked cool! HALL IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO Mts., West Mass. Good Sal. ,room & ERIKA OLMSTEAD Luv, The Nurse
Freshmen Winter Beach Party at 

329 BADIN OR CALL SHANNON AT bd,travel auowance, beautiful modern LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review Thank you for the special birthday
Rolfes and mixer In the JACC after­

3690. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. facility ,must love children & be able to early. Kaplan-SMH reviews fo many suprise. Your KIND as well as BEAUT!·
wards this Friday.

teach one of the following: Tennis. states available here In South Bend. FUL! HELP!!I need a ride to ATLANTA for LOST: Brown wallet at the Rock on W S.L,Sailing Transfer back home for summer. Dis­Spring Break!Will help wrth gas ex·
Wanted: FEMALE VOCAUST 

Friday. Call Chns x1851 or return to Waterski, Basebaii,Basketbaii,Soccer counts for Kaplan LSAT alumni. KARA DUNCAN HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! penses!Call Amy 284-5493.
for acoustic folk-rock band Must have 

Rock. Reward..no questions!! LaCrosse, Wood,A&C, Rocketry. Photog· Reserve before March 2 Call 272-4135. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! love ya, H
hme,talent,desire. call # 1803 or # 

raphy,Archery,Ptoneering, Ask for Sue. D.V.fl.
2546-·Joe 

Ropes,Piano.Drama.Call or write: Camp Someone who is ALL I CAN SAY IS. Winadu,5 Glen La.. Mamaroneck. NY SUMMER JOBS NOT AFRAID TO BE HIMSELF AND THE MAGIC CONTINUES.
FOUND! SEIKO quartz WATCH call283· 10543. (914)381·5983 ALLLANDWATER SPORTS would like to thank whoever sent me the
1166 to identity ATTENTION All JUNIORS'!!
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS card. Call me and let me know who you MAP.
PLEASE SAVE A MAN THAT IS ABOUT 

NO Law school students to be reps ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR are!
TO BE DISOWNED BY HIS PARENTS. 

LOST SOMEONE TOOK MY RED CW for Ksplan-SMH Bar Review courses. LAKE My brother is coming up for Junior Par·
SKI JACKET FROM THE CCE SATUR· Earn free bar review course plus $$'s. PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373 CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING ANNA and ANNIE Thanks for putting up
ents Weekend and I need an extra ticket 

DAY NIGHT. PLEASE RETURN IT Call 272-4135. Ask for Sue. with me on Tuesday. You're the greatest! 
for the cocktail party and the dinner. If

SINCE IT'S MY ONLY JACKET AND I Saturday Feb. 18 at THEODORS Love.
you have and extra ticket for erther please 

CAN'T AFFORD A NEW ONE I'Ll AS· COUNSELORS-Girls camp 1n Maine. OVERSEAS JOBS.$9()0..2000 mo. 9:30pm 6-pack
call Mike at x3331. I am willing to workSUME IT WAS AN HONEST MISTAKE. Good sel,room & bd..travel allowance, Summer,Yr.round.AII Countrles,AII out any deal in order to save my life.

I'LL EVEN GIVE A REWARD FOR THE beautiful modern facility ,must love fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· Songs from U2, The Cure, INXS, Blues JACKET OR INFORMATION WHERE IT children and be able to teach one of the IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. Brothers, Modem English, KERRY WATE Good luck in Bengal lSI PLEASE CALL SEAN-4784. followtng:Tennts, W.S.T..Sailing Stray Cats, and much more! Bouts'
Wanted·Rtde(one way)to CinctOayton or 

Waterski,Softbaii,Basketball. Soc­hi ag MICHELLE
Oxford area. Wtll share expenses Becky

LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl· cer,LaCrosse.A&C,Photography, Horse­P.S. Our timing is getting better
284·4376 

KEN Althougt, we are many mtles apart
MILITARY FORMAL!! call BRET x1389 back,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp To whom ever likes U2, You are always in my heart I MISS YOU 
Craft.Gymnasttcs.Call or write:Camp Come see: Tim-Thanks tor being my best friend and 
Dear Minnesota: 
COME TO CUA SOON A F N.E. 

LOST:Gold FRAME GLASSES since Vega, Box 1771 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING leadtng man lor 1 year. rlappy A. love­
We need a basketball coach, too! 
Love.

1188 please contac.1 Carla at 4803 (617)934·6536 FEB. 18, 9:30 THEODORS' Shannon Your Jeneane 
--···················-·· ·········-······ 
' 
/ ' 

..-----------------------------------------------------------------~~ __l ___L___j,(__~ t__ ~ ~ '} .-L . .' -··-~ "t 

Friday, February 17, 1989
The Observer
page 14 

NO tennis faces tough foes at West Virginia tournament 

By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
On the blackboard of Bob Bayliss' office there is a characterization of Notre Dame men's tennis coach­"Toughest Tennis Coach In the Midwest." 
This weekeend, the demand­ing midwestern coach takes his squad east to Charleston, W.V. to tackle three of collegiate ten­nis' premier teams, North Carolina, West Virginia and Murray State. · 
Undoubtedly, the upstart Irish are the underdogs against all three foes. 
"These three teams are the toughest teams we will play all year with the exception of 
U.C.L.A. and USC who are both ranked in the top five in the na­tion," said senior captain Brian Kalbas. "In our past matches, either our top or bottom three have played well, at Charleston every player must play well in one match." 

The 6-2 Irish first tack the 
court against Murray State in 
the round robin tournament. 
Traditionally, Murray State 
relies on foreign talent, and this 
season's team is no different. 
All six singles and all three 
doubles combinations are held 
by Swedes. 
"Murray State is historically very good," said Bayliss. "They are probably better in singles but we have the edge in doubles. If we take three singles matches, we have a good chance to win." 
Next up for the Irish is the host team, West Virginia. The .20th ranked Mountaineers are presently the best team in the east. In addition, WVU has won six out of the last eight Atlantic 
Mooney. 
continued from page 20 
In his most glorious of boxing days, Mooney made $75 for fighting in Detroit on a card that featured Joe Louis, and once reached the semifinals of the Golden Gloves in Chicago. He was the Studebaker champ, and earned $5 ("enough to buy a good meal") for every win in the Navy. 
The Bengal Bouts have a 
similar history of staying out . of the spotlight. The punches used to fly in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, until the event was 
moved to Stepan Center when 
Griffin 
continued from page 12 peace. This is the Notre Dame miracle, and we hope the Junior Parents will take the memory of it home with them. 

The Grotto is holy as a shrine to God's mother, con­\ spicuous not as a tourist trap, 
l 
1 
I 
the Fieldhouse was torn down in 1983. 
The dressing room is small and there are no showers. But the ACC just didn't seem right. 
"When they used to fight in the old Fieldhouse, we had a small training room in the back, and it smelled like a horse barn," said Mooney. "They'd pack four or five thousand people in there, and it would just be great. 
"It's just like when you pack three or four thousand in Stepan Center. I have to watch all their clothes so nobody runs off with them,. There aren't even any showers in there, but 
but as a much-loved student hangout. Whenever you go there, day or night, you will always find students ahead of you, leading the way. The Junior Parents should go there, to see if they feel at home with the Mother of God in the dearest place Notre Dame has to offer outside Sa­cred Heart Church and the 10 championships. Last season saw the Mountaineers make their first NCAA Championship appearance. West Virginia's roster includes an experienced total of total of two seniors and four juniors in the starting lineup. West Virginia, in an At­lantic 10 first, swpt through the championship round and cap­tured all six singles and all three doubles titles. 
Paul Mancini, WVU's No. 1 player, is currently ranked 49th in the nation. In 1987 and 1988, Mancini captured the National Amateur Clay Courts Champi­onship. The 5-11 junior is reknown for his quickness and superb baseline tactics. To il­lustrate the strenght of their lineup, WVU's No. 2 player, Joby Foley, is ranked 27th in collegiate tennis, 22 places above No. 1 Mancini. 

I couldn't imagine having it anywhere else." 
Even after the bell sounds four nights a year at Stepan, Mooney can be found in the ·dressing room. Many of the fighters ask him to stand in their corner, but that would bring about a conflict of inter­est. 
"To me, each one is my son," Mooney explained. "I'm not going to say, 'Hey, Joe, go out and knock him around.' So I stay in the dressing room." 
But don't be surprised if you see him sneaking a peek out the dressing room door every now and then. 
Mooney hasn't changed much. 
Keenan-Stanford chapel. While they're there, I hope they remember to light a candle and say a Hail Mary. If the they do that, we're sure to see them back at Notre Dame next year, at gradua­tion time, certainly, and per­haps for a football game. Un­til then, may Christ and His Lady watch over them. 
The Observer I Trey Aeymond The Notre Dame men's tennis team will battle three of the toughest teams on its scheduule this weekend as it travels to West Virginia to face Murray State, West Virginia and North Carolina. 
=Ihe--0-bse.----&-=-Y=-'-'"'~r-­
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Production Manager 
for further information, contact Alison Cocks at 239-5303 or 283-4042. 
I 
I I I 

:~ 

{)filEt Tlflt UIEEtt.· ( iAftJRDAY)( FRIDAY ) lf[ffio® ~® ~!P)~[fi)@~ lf®!P) CHER·NICOLAS CAGE M®NSTRUCK.,. IJ. TIMES: 8 &10:15 PM CUSHING AUDITORIUM 2  
OPEN FOR DINNER PRIVATE PARTIES CARRY-OUTS AVAILABLE UP TO 100 PEOPLE FINE EATING AND DRINKING YOUR HOST-ROBERTO PARISI ESTABLISHMENT "The Italian Restaurant" · Spaghetti Mostaccioli Linguini Gnocchi Pizza Ravioli Tortellini Arancini Manicotti Bracioletti Filone lmbottito Lasagna A La Parisi's Fettucini Alfredo Bucatini Con Broccoli Alia Calabresa All Agllo E Olio Chicken Cacciatora Breaded Veal Cutlet A La Parmigiana Open Tues-Sat232-4244 Dinner 4:00pm-11 :OOpmSouth of JACC  






meetings between the two teams. 
Either the Irish defense or the Loyola offense will have to give in Saturday's contest. The Lady Ramblers have a potent offense that averages 75.5 points per game, while Notre Dame is coming off its best de­fensive effort of the season. The Irish allowed only 34 points in last Saturday's win over St. Louis and are giving up just 62 points per game overall. 
Loyola boasts the top scorer in the MCC in Sheryl Porter. Porter scores 19.3 points per game and has connected on 11­of-31 three-point attempts. Porter originally attended Illi­nois, but transferred during her first season. She was the Chicago Sun-Times Player of the Year in 1986. 
"She's just a great athlete," McGraw said. "I think we're going to play straight up man­to-man with Diondra Toney and Comalita Haysbert on her." 
Guard Veronica Pettry (12.5) and center Denise Lawrence 
(11.2) also average in double figures for the Lady Ramblers. 

=Ihe=Obset:Ver---= 
Is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Sports Editor (3) Saint Mary's Sports Editor Please submit a one-page personal statement and a resume to Theresa Kelly at The Observer by Tuesday, Feb. 21. Questions? Call 239-5323 or 283-2718. 
Probable starters for Loyola at forward are Missy DeNeil (8.6 ppg) and Erin Joslin (4.6). 
The Irish have had some dif­ficulty getting quality practice time this week, as Toney and Karen Robinson have been out with the flu. McGraw expects both to play against Loyola. 
The Irish are also on a streak, winners of nine of their last 11 games. The only losses in that stretch came to non­conference opponents DePaul and Syracuse. 
Robinson continues to be the leader for the Irish after the early-season loss of Heidi Bunek to an injury. Robinson averages 13.2 points per game and has a team-high 113 assists. 
A pair of sophomores are also near double figures for the Irish. Guard Sara Liebscher averages 9.8 points per game, while forward Krissi Davis scores at a 8.2 clip. 
The Loyola contest will be the first in a four-game roadtrip for the Irish. They travel to Ten­nessee Monday and have MCC games against Dayton Thursday and Xavier next Sat­urday. 
The ObSerVer 1 Mike Moran 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will try to put the pressure on the Loyola Lady Ramblers to take the top spot In the MCC this weekend. 
AIR TRAVEL IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS TICKETS DELIVERED CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 255-7272 
,,.~, international 
~ toursGtrawl 
117 S. MAIN STREET MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 

By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's sole posses­sion of first place in the Mid­western Collegiate Conference will be at stake Saturday night when the women's basketball team travels to Loyola. 
It will be a big test for the streaking Irish, who sport a perfect 9-0 record in the MCC. The Lady Ramblers are 8-1 in the MCC after being upset Thursday night by Butler, 70­
65. The Irish are 15-6 overall, while Loyola is 15-6. 
"I think that at this point in the season every game is im­portant,'' Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We would cer­tainly like to go undefeated in the conference. We're looking forward to the challenge of playing a good team." 
While the Irish have dominated league play, Loyola has won, but struggled against MCC foes. The Lady Ramblers have won four games by five points or less and came from behind in wins over Xavier and Dayton last week. Notre Dame has won seven of th~ last nine 

THE NOTRE DAME 
GOLF SHOP 
OPEN JUNIOR PARENT'S WEEKEND 
FRIDAY 7:00AM -4:00PM SATURDAY & SUNDAY 9:00AM -4:00PM 
DISTINCTIVE GOLF WEAR AND EQUIPMENT WITH CLASSIC NOTRE DAME LOGOS 
-----~.. JPW • 

uThis unique aerial photograph captures all the excitement of our national championship game. Relive the glory of this Fiesta Bowl Classic with a full-color, 20" x 30" commemorative poster­as sanctioned by the Fiesta Bowl:· 
Bruce Skinner, Executive Director, Fiesta Bowl 
Yes, send me (no.) commemorative poster(s) at $15 each, plus $1 postage and handling. (Arizona residents add 6.7% sales tax). Please print. 
Name ________________________________ 
Address _________________________ 
City--------State ____Zip ___ 
Send check or money order to: 1989 Sunklst Fiesta Bowl Commemorative Poster, 4500 North 32nd St., Suite 100, Phoenix AZ 


The Observer I Paul Compton The Notre Dame wrestling team will be looking . Michigan tonight in the Joyce ACC Pit. The for a little revenge when it hosts Central Chippewas defeated the Irish last year. 


SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS AND SENIORS 
Please return your completed Faculty CourseEvaluations to the marked boxes in 

1 
) your dorm mailroom by 
r 
I Friday, February 17. 

Bengals 
continued from page 20 

Notre Dame boxing coach Sean McCormack 1s very ex­cited about this year's group. 
''This will be the best Bengal Bouts in a long time," claims McCormack, who has guided the boxers in th1s short training season, and who will work the corners during the week's fights. 
"This has been our shortest 
season ever," says Noone, "but 
for the amount of time these 
guys have had, we've got ex­cellent fighters." 
McCormack is especially ex­cited about the lower weight classes, which host the majority of the new, hungry fighters. The quarterfinal round in those classes will com­mence with the first session on Sunday. 
Besides the high quality fighting and the charitible spirit, two other Bengal tradi­tions will continue. 
Friday night's finals tradi­tionally feature an influential member of the national boxing community. Last year, Muhammad Ali sat ringside for the final round. McCorma~k 
expects South Bend's own junior welter-weight contender Harold Brazier to participate ir. the activities this year. 
Finally, the true crowning moment of the event will be the presentation of the Bengal Bouts Award, which this year will go to long-time Bengal sup­porter Father Edmund Joyce. 
LINCOLNWOOO MOTEL 3300 L.W.W. (US 20) Under New Management 
· Open 24 hours 
All modem clean units (219) 234-4063 

Friday, February 17, 1989 
Wrestlers face CMU looking for revenge 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
Can Notre Dame be in­timidated by the mighty Chip-pewas of Central Michigan? No, because the only thing on the minds of Irish wrestlers is revenge for the 27-12 pounding they took from them last year. 
"We are looking forward to having them as guests because last year they were not to hospitible toward us," said Irish head coach Fran McCann. "Our guys don't for­get very much." 
The match is slated for tonightat7:30intheJoyceACC Pit. CMU comes to Notre Dame with a deceiving 3:10 record. Notre Dame is sporting an 8-3 dual meet record, which is the best since McCann's first year in 1985 where they finished 8-4. 
The Irish are still not at full strength, battling a few cases of bronchitis. At 118 pounds, Andy Radenbaugh (32-7) will sit out the meet. In his place will be freshman Mike Sheehy who's current record is 6-2. Jerry Durso, who wrestles at 134 pounds, is a question mark for the match. 
"We'll take Jerry on a day to day basis," said McCann. "If he is ready, we'll go with h1m.'' 
On an individual basis, revenge is very high for the Irish. At 177 pounds, Chris Geneser will Jook to return the favor agamst Kevin Vogel, who pinned birr; last year. Other outstanding wrestlers for CMU are Greg Hoffman (158 pounds), Kevin Aiken (167 pounds), and Derek Phillips (190 pounds). They will match up against Mark Gerardi 07­12), Todd Tomazic 07-12), and Curt Engler (7-12) respective­ly. 
"If we wrestle the way we are capable, we should win the match,'' saia McCann, who is preparing the Irish for the NCAA West Regionals with two a day practices. 
"Right now, we are priming for the Regionals in every dual meet, and our spirits are high," said McCann. · · 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ • ••• ...~... ~~~~~~!!!!!!!!tl
IR ...-nn~.;;;;; 
ATTENTION BSN CLASS OF 1989.. 
The Air Force has a special pro­gram for 1989 BSNs. If selected, you can enter active duty soon after graduatio~without 'Mliting for the results of your State Boards. To qualif"t you must have an overall 
2. 75 GPA. After commissioning, you'll attand afive-month intern­ship at a major Air Force medical facilif¥ Irs an excellent way to pre­pare for the wide range of experi­ences you'll have serving your country as an Air Force nurse of­fice[ For more information, call 
USAF NURSE RECRUITING 317-848-5830 COLLECT 
AIR......::?~:.~>~iiiiiiiiiiiJI 
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..iiiii JORC~·J" .. 
-
• ---• -
-• -•
-• -­
-

• ­
-
--• -•
-•­
-
---• 
-•
-

--ICEBERG DEBATES -­
-• -­
-FINAL FOUR ­
-
-:1 

--=
--Fisher vs Stanford -­
-

E"That non-prescrpition contraceptives -i !should be made available to students i !through their Public High School -E !Health Clinics" E
-
= I
i Zahm vs P.E. 5 
= .
I Monday 9 pm I 
~11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~ 



Friday, February 17, 1989 page 17
The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Selected few run at IC4As 
Dillon Hall won Saturday's double-elimination NVA broomball tournament. Dillon lost its first game, then out­
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO ''The purpose of this meet is sprinters in the long jump. scored its final seven opponents 44-7. The Dillon team, 
Sports Writer to give some guys the opportu­Piane also added that pole consisting of D.J. Romano, Tim O'Loughlin, Chris Hurley, 
nity to compete who have not vaulters Chris Bush and Chris Marty Hull, Ken Boehn and Mark Zoia beat Staford 3-1 
The Notre Dame men's track had the opportunities in the· Componovo will compete to get and 5-0 to take the title. -The Observer 
team will take care of some past," said Irish track coach the necessary marks to qualify necessary business today as it Joe Piane. "It is a great oppor­to the IC4A's. A squash clinic with Notre Dame tennis coach Bob 
competes in the Indiana Inter­tunity for the kids to run, jump "We're taking certain kids Bayliss, former squash coach at MIT and Navy, Monday 
collegiates at Indiana Univer­and throw well, and hopefully and trying to get a good perfor­at 4:30p.m. on court one of the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
sity. some kids will get some marks mance out of The whole team will not be to qualify for the IC4A's." Piane. "We have little regard
The ND-SMC Gymnastics Club will hold a meet 
in attendance, as only those Notre Dame will not be sen­for the team championship. It'sSunday at 12 noon at Angela Athletic Facility. Admission who "need some opportunities ding many of its athletes be­more important to relax now.
is free, and all are invited. -The Observer to compete" will make the trek cause of the vigorous schedule "It used to be that we would to Bloomington in the hopes of of the team in recent weeks. get all worked up for this meet, The Cheerleading Team will have an informational sharpening performances and Piane will give those who have but now we have a great teammeeting Monday for anyone interested in trying out for getting qualifying times for the been suffering from injuries an competition every time we step the 1989-90 Cheerleading Team (either as a cheerleader upcoming championship opportunity to recuperate, and into our own track facilities for or the leprechaun). Please bring proof of insurance. The 
meets. for those who have been run­an invitational,"meeting will take place at 8 p.m. in the football auditorium The main chai'Il:pionships ning extensively to rest. Piane.
of the Joyl.!e ACC. There will also be meetings Wednesday that the atheletes will be The Irish also will be ex­Piane listed · and Thursday. -The Observer aiming for will be that of the perimenting with some ath­Mark Lavery, Brian Peppard,
The ND-SMC women's lacrosse team will hold 
Intercollegiate Association of letes. Senior Dave Warth will Ron Markezich, its first practice Monday at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Amateur Athletes of America compete in the 600 to give him O'Rourke, RyanPlease be there by 6:45 p.m. and remember to bring $5 
(IC4A) scheduled for March 4-some leg speed for the 800, and Yan Searcy as for club dues and sticks if you have them. -The Observer 
5. the team may put some would not be making the trip. 
them," said 
continued 
Mike Rogan, 
Tom Cahill and runners who 
·, 
we should 
guard Bob off the Ex­
Dame had · 9-2 lead, 
as the Ex­
getting easy said 
Keith 
minutes of strong 
as a fresh­Tower 

Irish 

continued from page 20 
Robinson's next basket tied

Notre Dame 
the game at 78.
is currently accepting applications for the 
"Keith was awesome...This 
following position: 

was a must win game and puts us back to where
Bengal Bouts 
be," Phelps said. LaSalle led the Irish 48-40 at
Accent Copy Editors {3) 
the half as LaSalle was 5-for-6 from three-point range in the first half. Junior Johnson came 
quarter finals 
Please contact Beth Healy at 

plorers' bench to lead LaSalle 
Sunday, Feb. 19 
283-1264 or John Blasi at 283-2163 or 
with 18 points in the first 20 minutes.
239-5303

1:30 and 7:30 
Mter Notre jumped out to a 
LaSalle went on an 18-8 run to lead the Irish 20-17. 
Johnson and Hurd scored fif­teen of LaSalle next 17 points over a 5: 44 span 
plorers extended their lead to 37-25. "They were 
NOTICE TO ALL POTENTIAL 
MAY 1989 GRADOA TES 
points in transition," Phelps. "We wanted to get it under ten before the half." 
The Registrar's Office has sent a mailer to each student who Freshman center 
Tower gave the Irish a boost
is expected to graduate this May. It contains the potential with four points, six rebounds, 
and seven
graduate's NAME and HOMETOWN as they appear in the play as the Irish cut the lead to 
eight with 2: 05 left in the first 
commencement program and the NAME as it will appear on half. 
"Tower played the best game

the diploma. of his life for us man," said Phelps. wound up with 6 points and 6
If you have not received a mailer, and expect to graduate this 
rebounds in just 13 minutes of play.
May, or if you would like to make any changes to either your 
Thursday's Results Notre Dame 80, LaSalle 78 LaSalle (78)

name or hometown, please contact the Registrar's Office 
M Simmons 40 9·21 0-0 Conlin 30 1·4 0-0 Lieverst 24 0-4 0-0 Overton 40 7·15 2-5 
before February 20, 1989. Graduate students should contact 
the Graduate School Office -ROOM 316 Administration 
Hurd 28 6·11 4-7 Johnson 24 6-12 2-5 Wriedt 9 0-0 0-0
Building. Law students should report to ROOM 106 of the 
Shelton 5 0-0 0-0 
Total FG percent.-.433.

Law School. Questions about your DegreEYMajor should be 
.471. FT percent.-.667. Team rebounds-3. Turnovers-11. Assists-20 (Simmons, Over· 
ton 7). Technicals-none. Notre Dame (80) M 
directed to your Dean. 
Ellis 32 3-5 0-0 Jackson 35 3·9 1-2 Robinson 35 12-16 0·0 
Diploma name changes requested after February 20 will 
require a $20.00 charge. 
Fredrick 36 10·21 0-3 Singleton 24 0-2 0-0 Tower 13 2-2 0-0 Bennett H~ 2·4 0·0 Sweet 9 3-4 0-0 
You will receive a commencement ticket request form by 
35-63 1·5

March 1 , 1989 together with information about Total FG percent.-.556. .200. FT percent.-.692. Team rebounds·2. Turnovers-18. Assists-
announcements, cap/gown rental, etc. 
Technicals· none. Halftime-LaSalle 48, 
Officials-Tom Grzywinski,
Daniel H. Winicur, Ph.D. 
Aich'lrd Honig. Attendance-10,243. 
College basketball results Loyola (Ill.) 85, Butler 84 

Dean of Administration 
Michigan 84, Purdue 70 
Louisville 78, Florida State 77 
Illinois 75, Michigan State 56 

and University Registrar 

FG-A JP-A FT·A R F P 
4-1010 3 22 0-0 5 2 2 0-0 8 3 0 0-0 2 1 16 2-2 1 3 18 6-6 4 1' 20 0·000 0 0-0010 
29-67 8-1712-183014 78 
3-Pt. percent.­
FG-A JP·A FT-A R F P 1-210 4 7 0-1 2 2 7 0·0 16 3 24 4-6 2 3 24 2-2 2 4 2 2-2 6 2 6 0-0 0 2 4 0-0 1 0 6 9-133920 80 3-Pt. percent.­
20 (Fredrick 8). 
Notre Dame 40. Joe Davulich, 

Friday, February 17, 1989
The Observer
page 18 

More running than slamming 
Houston visits Notre Dame with· an unfamiliar style 


By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
The University of Houston basketball program is entering a new era. 
Gone are the days of Akeem "the Dream" Olajuwon, Clyde "the Glide" Drexler and Phi Slamma Jamma. Cougar head coach Pat Foster has replaced the old inside offensive and de­fensive attack with a much faster model featuring three­point field goals and a full-court press. The new nickname should be Phi Runna Gunna. 
All will be on display Sunday when the Cougars visit the Joyce ACC at 2 p.m. to take on Notre Dame, fresh from its Thursday night battle with LaSalle. 
Notre Dame entered Thursday night's game against the Explorers ·with a 14-5 record. Sunday's contest against Houston completes a four-game homestand for the Irish in which they also defeated USC and lost to Boston College. 
Houston puts its 15-9 record (6-5 in the Southwest Confer­ence) on the line Saturday against conference rival Texas 


Krause wins Hall of Fame award 
Associated Press 
LARCHMONT, NY --Edward 
H. "Moose" Krause, athletic director at Notre Dame for 32 years until his retirement in 1980, has been named winner of the National Footba 11 Foun­dation and Hall of Fame's Dis­tinguished American Award for 1989. 
He will be honored Dec. 5 at 
-==---:-----­

the foundation's annuual Hall of Fame dmner in New York. 
Krause, 76, graduated from Notre Dame cum laude with a degree in journalism in 1934 after starring in football and basketball. He was head bas­ketball coach at St. Mary's (Minn.), Holy Cross and Notre Dame and is a member of the College Basketball Hall of 
~--~-· --~ ::·_-_­
Fame. 
He also served as head foot­ball, track, golf and tennis co­ach at St. Mary's in addition to heading the journalism and physical education· depart­ments. He was an assistant football coach and head basketball coach at Holy Cross before returning to Notre Dame in 1942 as an assistant coach in both sports. 
-.~ ------= ----­

I_ ' 
Then get in on the ground floor in our undergraduate officer • Juniors earn more than $1900 during one ten-week commissioning program. You could start planning on acareer summer session like the men in this ad have. And also have soma great • You can take free civilian flying lessons advantages like: • You're conunissioned upon graduation 
• 
Earning $100 a month during the school year Hyou're looking to move up quickly, look into the Marine Corps 

• 
As afreshman or sophomore, you could complete your basic train­ing during two six-week summer sessions and earn more than $1100 during each session 



II
'.,
l) 

' ' 
I' 
~ .,! 
,, I 
!I
iJ 
I I 
Christian. Sunday's game against the Irish marks the fifth in nine days for the Cougars. . 
Houston's five SWC losses this season have been by a com­bined seven points. In fact, the Cougars have been victimized by several buzzer-beaters this year, including one in an ESPN -televised 88-86 loss to Texas on Jan. 14. 
Notre Dame has not played Houston since the 1977-78 season, when the Irish beat the Cougars 100-77 in the first round of the NCAA tourna­ment. The all-time series is tied at three games apiece, with both teams averaging well over 90 points per game. 
Third-year coach Foster is looking to take the Cougars to a third-straight post-season ap­pearance. Houston went to the NIT last season after qualify­ing for the NCAA tourney the previous year. 
The Cougars must get out­standing performances from two key frontcourt players Sun­day if they are to defeat the Irish and keep alive their dream of returning to the NCAA tournament this season. 
Forwards Craig Upchurch, the 1987-88 SWC Newcomer of the Year, and Richard Hollis, 1987-88 Second-Team All-SWC selection, pace a Houston start­ing lineup that includes three scorers in double figures. 
Upchurch, a 6-8 sophomore, led the Cougars in scoring with 
18.9 points per game entering the week. He also owns a team­leading average of 6.6 rebounds per game. He scored a career­high 34 points earlier this season against Texas A&M while nursing an injured shoulder. 
Hollis, bearing the number double-zero on his jersey, may be the most instantly recog­nizable player on the Cougar 
squad. The 6-5 senior is second on the team in scoring at a 16.2 points per game. He has re­corded 10-or-more rebounds in 10 games this season, and his 
7.8 rebound average was third in the SWC entering this week. 
Freshman point guard Der­rick Daniels leads the SWC in assists this season with a 6.1 average. He broke the Houston record for assists by a fresh­man earlier this year against Rice. 
undergraduate officer commission­ingprogrnm. Youcoold 
;jj;
start offmaking more

Wanttomove 
than $17,000 ayear. 
JJr.ft.Jooking&a&#JOIImen.

upquicldy? 

IO'I'RE DAME PAREI'I'S Have your son or daughter live in a condo while at Notre Dame * 1 mile from Notre Dame * New Consruction * Tax Abatement ,; *Security Systems ** A profitable investment ** Call TARIPP DEVELOPMENT CORP. Contact Christopher Matteo (219) 232-8256  
I IS Classic Rock _ Night Rolling Rock and Rock-n-Roll! 9:00-2:00 a.m. *Come to FRIDAY LUNCH Noon-2:00p.m.  



Friday, February 17, 1989 
The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
3:30p.m. Captain Bajuk, U.S.N., Commanding Officer of the 
U.S.S. Alaska, will speak about Trident Submarines in Room 109 of the ROTC Building. 
4:00-5:30 p.m. "Journalism as an Instrument of Peace," by Colman McCarthy, editorial writer for the Washington Post, at the Center for Social Concerns. 
CAMPUS 
FRIDAY 

7:30 & 9:45 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre film, "Hope 
and Glory," Annenberg Auditorium. SATURDAY 
1:00 p.m. SMC Basketball vs. Taylor University, Angela Ath­
letic Facility. SUNDAY 
11 :00 a.m. Misa en Espanol in Farley Hall Chapel. 
2:00p.m. SMC Basketball vs. Rosary college, Angela Athletic Facility. 
2:00p.m. NDM Basketball vs. Houston, JACC. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Tuna Muffin with Cheese Shrimp Fajitas Batter Fried Perch Baked Fish Supreme(Perch) Cheese Blintzes Mushroom Omelette Mushroom Stroganoff Deli Bar(no meat) 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD . 
ACROSS 25 "Nightline" 41 Shofars host's first name 
42 Pseudologist1 Points a car 26 Spirit

7 Promote 43 Bilka, e.g.27 Bend mto shape 
12 Fork over 44 Bent down 
28 Small change14 Lets 45 Renaissance29 Flares up 

16 --hand cupid (pitching in) 30 Moves aside 
46 Witty retort 17 H1de out 32 Ski places 48 Slumps.

18 Facilitates 33 Boutiques 50 Modifies
19 Doohickey 34 Cheese type 51 Lhasa apsos. 
21 One-time 35 Spills the beans e.g.
22 Perpetually 36 Self-assurance 52 Like a chimney
23 Gibson or 37 Marry Morgan 53-Drab
40 Griffith or 24 Cut fat Rooney 
DOWN 
1 Pulley wheel 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
2 Became anxious 
3 Tribal leader 
4 Yalies 
5 Pitcher Guidry 
6 Hints at 
7 Bananas 
8 Medley 

20 Angel's favorite 31 Keep 41 The --set (fox letters r.unters)
9 Corrida cry 32 Flimflammed 23 Searches for 42 "Santa--."
10 Affect by 33 Verse 
sunlight 24 Snares Italian song 
34 Most resentful 
26 Heredity factors 44 Convy of TV11 Double-crosses 36 G.I. in a stalag 
27 Complete 45 Blameless 
12 Bad weather 37 Dry up 
28 A Stooge 47 Earth: Comb 13 Contaminates 29 Euphoria 38 Greasy spoon form 
15 Inundates 30 Letter patterns 39 Leavings 49 Hockey great 
Berke Breathed 




The Far Side Gary Larson 
Jerks Bob McLaughlin & Kevin McKay 
MEET BARNEY. BA EY 
BARNEY CAN SKI, TOO. 
IS REAL COOL. HE :S A 
BA R.NEY IS RfAL COOL. 
SAINT BERNARD. SAINI 
IS

BERNAR OS ARE ~EAL COOL. 





An Evening with ••• %arvi (jriffinFriday, February 17th 7:00 PM FREE Theodore's STUDENT UNION BOARD  



-----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~·~--------------~~ 
Sports

page 20 Friday, February 17, 1989 
Irish edge Explorers 80-78 
I 

iI ' Juniors Robinson, Fredrick combine for 48 points 
I ! 
i ' 
By CHRIS MURPHY "Hurd usually makes that with :29 seconds left. 
n 
Sports Writer shot," said LaSalle head coach Simmons then missed hisll Bill "Speedy" Morris. "I free throws allowing Singleton Keith Robinson and Joe thought we had won the game. to set up Fredrick for the game­
\ \ 
Fredrick combined for 32 Digger said he stole one and winning shot. 
I ( 
~ second-half points and Notre he's probably right. But I give With the Irish trailing 48-40 
I\ Dame's defense limited him the credit." at the start of the second half, LaSalle's junior sensation LaSalle also had an opportu­Robinson and Fredrick com­Lionel Simmons to nine second­nity to go ahead with ten bined for Notre Dame's next 16 half points as the Irish came seconds remaining, but Sim­points. A goaltending call on from behind to defeat the Ex­mons missed two free throws Simmons gave the Irish a tie plorers, 80-78 Thursday night after Notre Dame had called at 56-56 with 14:22 left. the Joyce ACC. two consecutive timeouts. Jackson drove into the lane 

Fredrick nailed a 15-foot "I can't explain it," said for layups on the Irish's next jumper with two LaSalle Morris on Simmons missing two possesions to put the Irish defenders on him and three the free throws. "He's icewater ahead at 60-56. seconds remaining to win the but just didn't get the roll. He The Irish led 64-61 when Rob­game for the Irish. might hit 30 in a row now." inson took over for the Irish hit­
"Fredrick hit a great shot," Simmons, who entered the ting his next three shots. said Irish head coach Digger game averaging 28.3 points per LaSalle jumped back into the Phelps. "I told Tim (Singleton) game, was held to 22 points, lead at 69-68 on a Doug Overton to jump stop and find some­thirteen of which came in the three-pointer with 7: 38 on the body. We're lucky to win, but first half. clock. it's a win. We fought hard and "Jamere Jackson did a super After Simmons drove across · I'm happy the way they got it job on Simmons in the second the lane and hit a bank-shot to done." half," Phelps said. put LaSalle up 73-7Q with 4: 17 


LaSalle missed an opportu­Robinson scored a career­left, the Irish chipped away on 
,•

nity to win the game at the buz­high 24 points, had a season­a Robinson jumper and two 
The Notre Dame basketball team escaped with a win Thursday at
zer when freshman Jack Hurd's high 16 rebounds, and grabbed free throws by Singleton to trail 
the Joyce ACC, defeating LaSalle 80-78 on shot with three seconds 
three-point attempt bounced a Fredrick miss and converted 78-76. 
off the rim. it to pull the Irish even at 78 see IRISH, page 17 remaining by Joe Fredrick. Chris Murphy details the action at left. 
Mike Noone  is  one  of  six returning  
champions expected  to  headline the  
three days' cards.  


,. 
1! lj 
-~ 
"' 
t 
·t 
i,; 
,jl 
ii. 
)E
't 
;
1~·'
\t\ 
lL} 
\1· ( 
;~ 
; 

~-------~---------­
Six champions return in 59th Bengal Bouts 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 

"Strong bodies fight that the weak_., may be nourished." 
Those words have inspired thousands of boxers over the years, including 104 who will take to the boxing ring in the next week in the 59th annual Bengal Bouts at Stepan Center to benefit the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
Beginning with Sunday's two-session quarterfinals ( 1: 30 and 7: 30), continu­ing on Wednesday night at 7:30, and concluding with the finals next Friday night at 8:00 PM, those 104 boxers will vie for 14 titles in this annual exhibition of skill, hard-nosed spirit, and the legacy of Dominic J. "Nappy" Napolitano. 
Knute Rockne founded the bouts in 1930, hoping for an off-season workout outlet for his football players. The event expanded to its present thriving level over the ensuing 59 years, but football players still share the limelight. 
This years super-heavyweight divi­sion features defending champion and defensive tackle Brian Shannon, along with senior defensive tackle Steve Roddy and 1987 champion Dan Quinn. 
~--------·--·-----·--·-·-"·--------------

Napolitano took the reigns of the Ben­gals from Rockne and added the charitable status of the event, his own indomitable personality, and his im­mortal words. 
Nappy, who passed away in 1986, will remain with the Bengal Bouts forever. Notre Dame Boxing Club President 
Noone will be attempting to join an elite group of Notre Dame boxers. With a championship this year, Noone will become one of only five four-time Ben­gal champions. 
"It's defnitely something you think about for four years," said Noone. "It's big." 
And those in Noone's 135-pound weight·class better look out. "I'm in better shape (than any other year). I'm stronger." 
Joining Noone on the list of defending champions are Shannon, Doug Biol­chini, Vance Becklund, Bill Angrich, and Chrjs Balint. 
But it's the 98 other fighters who will add the suspense to this year's bouts. 
see BENGALS, page 16 
_, ________ 1 
Mooney as much a tradition as the Bouts I 
I
Boxing at Notre Dame hasn't changed much in "These kids have better training, better Iars for every has-been who decides to come out the past 59 years. facilities," Mooney continued. "They train hard. of retirement and, of course, closed-circuit televi­
Take it from Jack Mooney, the 76-year-old Ben­When they spar in here, some of them beat the sion. gal Bouts trainer who has been involved in the hell out of each other. This year we had a broken But Mooney and the Bengal Bouts have a lot in sport for most of his life. nose, but that kind of thing can't be helped. It's common. Neither has changed much from the 
Mooney used to fight wherever and whenever boxing.'' days of pure, hard-hitting, broken-nose boxing. he could--for South ~end's old Studebaker plant, 
More than 50 years ago, Mooney met and the United States Navy, in the Golden Gloves com­befriended the late Dominic J. "Nappy"
Marty
petition and eventually on the undercards of leg­Napolitano, who founded the Bouts that are now endary boxers like Joe Louis and Max Schmelling. Strasen fought in his memory. Mooney, who boxed in the Now he helps Notre Dame boxers with their amateur ranks in those days, helped out however headgear and gloves, washes their mouthpieces he could--carrying spit pails, fetching towels and 
and shows them how to throw left jabs and right Sports Editor eventually judging and officiating some of thehooks. 
matches.

"I'll tell you truthfully, those guys back then Boxing. In its purest form, it involves two strong Now he does more of the same in training ses­weren't any tougher than these kids," Mooney said men trying to knock each other silly in a roped-off sions, performing many of the chores that go un­Thursday, as he scanned the Joyce ACC boxing area, for the honor of having an arm raised in noticed by most people during the four nights of room at some of the fighters who were getting 
victory. fighting. But hiding in the shadows is not new toready for the start of the 59th annual Bengal Bouts 
In recent years, big-time boxing has meant a Mooney.
this weekend. 

great deal of show-business hype, millions of dol­
see MOONEY, page 14 

;~ 
I\;~ 
,t_ 
" 




