
VOL. XXIII NO. 13 WEDNESDAY , SEPTEMBER 13, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Steve Moskop 
Artistic painter 
Snite Museum employee Jeremy Langford puts some finishing touches on a new sculpture outside of The Snite. The sculpture is part of a David Hayes exhibit that is to open on Sunday, Sept. 17. 

SMC student attacked 
Special to the ObseiVer the other car pulled up beside her and the man in the passen­
A Saint Mary's student was ger side got out and tried to attacked early Sunday, Sep.10, force her into his car. in the Le Mans Hall parking lot. The student fought off her The incident occurred at 3:20 attacker, biting him on the 
a.m. and ended with the student hand, and ran to the Security fleeing her attacker and run­Office. The car, described as a ning to the Security Office. white Chevrolet Celebrity type, 
The student stated that she fled the scene. had been driving onto campus, The man is described as a down the main drive, when a black male, 5'10" tall, 180 car which had been leaving pounds, with very muscular campus, turned around and be­arms. gan following her. She pro­Saint Mary's Security asks ceeded to the Le Mans lot and got out of her car. At that time, see ATTACK I page 3 
Off-campus crime discussed 
Matt Breslin were all present. could be." 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter Way told the students that Students should avoid two 
they were more vulnerable now major misconceptions, said 
that they live off-campus. "A lot Bennett. "They should not think 
Student government, the Of­of lax students have helped to 'never me' or 'never here'. Any­fice of Student Affairs, Notre project the image that students thing can happen anywhere." Dame Security and the South are an easy prey," he said. He Students should also be cau­Bend Police Department jointly cited the fact that students are tious when leaving their homes hosted a meeting Tuesday away from their homes for the and getting out of their cars, he about off-campus crime and hours when they have classes said. safety. and burglaries can occur at Doran said that his staff in­
Burglary prevention, party these times. cludes four people who aid off­problems and communication The Police Department campus students. He said his between students and the police brought displays of windows office will assist in land­and administration were and doors to illustrate the ways lord/tenant problems. He spoke among topics covered in the that students may make their of a need for "communication question/answer format. homes safer. Way spoke specif­from you (the off-campus stu­
Phillip Johnson, assistant di­ically about which types of dents)." rector of Security, Patrick Do­bolts are most secure. Pam­Doran said he does have off­ran, assistant director of Resi­phlets describing various mea­campus students into his office dence Life, Deputy Chief Larry sures that students could take when the Police Department is Bennett, chief of South Bend to make their homes more se­called to the student's house. Police Department's uniform cure were available at the The talk concerns why the division, Lt. Dave Woods, su­meeting. problem happened and how to pervisor of the East Section Way asked the group of ap­avoid problems with the police which borders the University, proximately 30 how many of in the future, said Doran. "Our Sgt. Doug Way, of South Bend their homes had been broken hope and expectation is that Police Department's community into and several indicated that students will at least abide by relations and crime prevention, theirs had been. He said the and Student Body President house this time, but next time it see CRIME I page 5 
Bishop Gumbleton opens lecture series 
By DAVID CERTO 
For International Peace Stud­News Staff ies, Tuesday's program was the first of four visits Bishop Gum­
Bishop Thomas Gumbleton bleton plans to make to Notre outlined the American bishops' Dame as a visiting fellow at the pastoral letter on nuclear peace institute. weapons and warfare to open the Notre Dame Law School's A recognized authority on brown bag lunch lecture series Catholic peace policies, Gumble­Tuesday. ton was ordained in Detroit in 
1956 and consecrated bishop in 

Gumbleton, president of Pax 1968. He studied at Sacred Christi-U.S.A. and auxiliary Heart in Detroit and later in bishop of Detroit, explained Rome and is presently pastor of 
his views and those expressed B"shop Th G bl t Saint Leo's parish in the inner
1 omas urn e on city.
in the 1983 document, "The Challenge of Peace." able, that the initiation of nu­
Though he had only an hour, clear war could never be Gumbleton has been pub­Gumbleton outlined the high­morally acceptable, that nu­lished in numerous journals lights of the pastoral letter, clear response is not justified, and magazines. He has trav­sharing his insights as a mem­even if used in retaliation, be­elled extensively, including trips ber of the committee that cause of the impossibility of to Vietnam to monitor condi­drafted it to the audience of containing nuclear conflict and tions of political prisoners, to nearly seventy people. that the "Balance of Power" is Iran to visit the U.S. hostages 
His main points included the fundamentally sinful and held in the Alnerican embassy four judgements pronounced by should be abandoned as rapidly in 1979 and to Nicaragua to the assembly of bishops, specif­as possible. He then carefully evaluate poverty relief efforts ically that counter-city and explained the reasoning behind in the region. counter-population warfare these statements. Gumbleton has received many could never be morally accept-Sponsored by the Institute awards for his work. 

CHINA IN TURMOIL 

Chinese student needed connections to make trip work 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
This is the last of a three­part series. 
Xiao Qiang, the Notre Dame graduate student who traveled to China just days after the crackdown in Tiananman Square, said that connections made his trip to Bejing a suc­cess. 
Qiang said he needed to find someone trustworthy who would help him plan the trip to Bejing. He decided to contact a friend who taught in a city near Guang Zhou. 
"I didn't know what to tell her, I hadn't seen the woman in three years. I also knew my story sounded crazy," said Qiang. "In the beginning she was nervous." He said she had heard conflicting stories about what really happened in Bejing. 
The woman told Qiang that he could stay with her as long as he did not go anywhere. She changed his money for him and brought current news reports for him, said Qiang. 
For a week Qiang said he was able to watch news reports broadcast from both China and Hong Kong. "I got a lot of information and met with some students from Bejing who were trying to hide." 
Qiang also made contact with several people that he knew in the area. "Everybody said don't go to Bejing," said Qiang. During this time Qiang was able to get an address of a family who had a child die in the massacre. 

A reporter friend of Qiang's said she would go to Bejing with Qiang. He explained that it was easier for her to get a plane ticket. 
Two weeks after the mas­sacre Qiang was able to get a plane ticket and fly to Bejing. He said he had little trouble in the Bejing airport. 
"In Bejing things were worse than I imagined," said Qiang. He said a taxi driver gave him information about the current situation on the streets. 
Qiang went to the home lo­cated at the address he received from a friend. He said the fam­ily was very surprised and asked "how did you hear about this?" Their son, a high school student, was killed in the mas­sacre. The father of the family was suspicious of Qiang and wanted nothing to do with him, he said. 
Qiang saw soldiers beating people in the streets and said he "couldn't believe it." He said one day he saw three plain clothed men with walkie-talkies in the street and thought it was very strange. 
In light of the travel restric­tions for Chinese students, Qiang said he wanted to apply for a permit as soon as possi­ble. He said he took a train to his former university. 
"I visited some of my profes­sors and they told me what I needed to do to get back to the 
U.S. They all wanted me to re­turn," said Qiang. "Many of them offered me help without me even asking." 
Qiang took a train ride to a city 18 hours outside of Bejing. 
While there he "spoke to stu­dents and got more informa­tion," said Qiang. 
At this point Qiang's family made their first contact with him since he returned to China. He said they were angry and told him "after you get the permit (to leave China) we're coming to get you." According to Qiang, his family could not understand why he had come home. 
Qiang said his mother was worried about him. He said his family thought he was acting foolishly. "They had a hard time understanding why I had come home," said Qiang. During the five days Qiang stayed with his family they were able to understand him better, 
see CHINA I page 5 

page 2 The Observer Wednesday, September 13, 1989 


WORLD BRIEFS 

Colombia's cocaine war has called attention to another battle: the coffee war. Colombia blames the United States for a nosedive in the price of coffee, which brought Colombia almost $_1.5 billion last year and is the South American nation's top for­mgn exchange earner. Government officials here complain that what Washington gives with one hand-such as military aid to fight drug traffickers the other hand takes away, in coffee rev­enue. The Colombians claim that this money could be used for fighting drugs. 
The Po_lish Parliament on Tuesday approved the first gov­ernment 111 the East bloc not led by Communists, giving half the seats to Solid~rity but reserving the key ministries controlling de­fense and police for the Communists. "For the first time in half a r:(mtury, Poland has a government that can be considered by mil­hems of people as their own," said Solidarity leader Lech Wales a f~om Gdansk, where the independent movement struggled through mght years of Communist repression to its triumph. ' 
Soviet political maverick Boris Yeltsin met briefly with !~resident Bush on Tuesday after publicly urging the administra­tiOn to help salvage Mikhail Gorbachev's political and economic reforms: "The president emphasized that the American people share his hope for the success of the reform movement in the Soviet Union," the White House said in a statement after the meeting. Bush told Yeltsin his administration enjoys a "very posi­tive relationship" with Soviet President Gorbachev and reiterated support for perestroika, or Soviet restructuring, the the White House said. 

NATIONAL BRIEFS 

Disabled activists are disturbed by recent court rulings that let quadriplegics choose death over life with paralysis, a trend they contend subtly encourages the disabled to end it all. Advocates for the disabled say the case of Larry McAfee -the Atlanta man who won a court order allowing him to shut off the ventilator that has kept him alive since 1985 -is but one example of what happens when state health systems fail to give their dis­abled patients a chance at life outside of hospitals and state insti­tu~io~s. ~au~ Lon~more, a California historian and quadriplegic, said mstitutwnahzed care for the disabled is the norm in most states.."Many st~tes a~e li~e that," Longmore said. "Essentially, states hke Georgia ... give disabled people two choices: the nursing home or the cemetery." 
Deborah Epstein Popper and Frank Popper aren't winning any converts to their notion that the Great Plains ought to be emptied of people and given back to the buffalo and the tall grasses. The Poppers are professors at Rutgers University in New Jersey, a state that is the butt of more than a few jokes, and that makes them easy targets for more of the same. Prominent among their critics is Rep. Pat Roberts, a Republican who represents most of west Kansas, and who says that every time the region goes through hard times "you get another think tank effort to send us back to the buffalo." "We still believe Woody Allen was joking when he claimed every place has redeeming social value 'with the possible exception of New Jersey,'"the congressman wrote to The Washington Post. "We only hope the Poppers were joking as well." 

INDIANA BRIEFS 
A fine of more than $180,000 dollars that Drexel Burnham Lambert is expected to pay Indiana is the largest fine ever paid in the state for securities fraud, officials in Indianapolis said Tues­day. The secretary of state's office said the fine would be used to launch a campaign to educate consumers about investment and securities fraud. The New York investment firm has been ordered to pay Indiana a fine of $180,127 as part of a national settlement of a securities and mail fraud case. Indiana investors who lost money because of Drexel violations are also entitled to compensa­tion from a nationwide escrow account of $350 million. 

CAMPUS BRIEFS 
The student who contracted measles was released from the Health Center Sunday morning, according to Carol Sea­ger, director of University Heatlh Services. The case sparked off a massive im!llunization effort by Universit~'· county and state health officmls. 6416 measles shots were given on Friday and Monday, Seager said. 

WEATHER 
Cool 

Cloudy and very cool today with a 50 percent chance of light rain. High near 60. 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
War on drugs requires new targets, not more ammo 
Last Tuesday in a nationwide address Presi­
dent Bush outlined his $7.9 billion war on drugs 
to the American people. Immediately afterward, 
Senator Joe Biden took to the air to sum up the 
Democratic response to Bush's plan: Not 
enough money. 
The next morning, Bush's plan was dissected, 
analyzed, examined, and judged by the members 
of Congress, the media, and the American pub­
lic. The oft-invoked standard, the yardstick, the one word used to judge the plan which seemed to dominate air time on network newscasts was once again, money. Money. 
Surely Bush's plan contains something else. Is 
it merely a Jist of figures, figures which in most 
cases showed increases, however large or small, 
of existing programs? 
In a sense, yes. The plan is about money. Com­
pared to most areas of the federal budget, how­
ever, even the requested increases represent a 
pitifully small percentage of all government 
spending. If all the President has in mind is 
pumping more federal dollars down the gov­
ernment pipeline, then his plan is a failure. 
Perhaps Bush was wise enough to realize that 
money alone is not the answer. Consider: From 
1980 to 1987 federal funds spent on drug inter­
diction and border patrol have tripled. The re­
sult has been a 27 -fold rise in seizures of co­
caine at our nation's borders. 
Yet cocaine continues to be available through­out the United States. Where there is a demand, there will be a supply. 
Similarly, funds spend on education programs were the fastest growing component of the fed­eral drug budget, up 328 percent between 1981 and 1988, yet the evidence shows that educa­tional programs which merely provide informa­tion about the dangers of drug abuse have failed to significantly reduce the demand for drugs. 
In the war on drugs, government is losing the battles. Bush's challenge is to switch the em­phasis from failed government attempts to in­terdict supply and "educate" away demand to one of the few policies left which has so far shown promise: User accountability. Zero tol­erance. No exceptions. Drug users must be made aware that any use of drugs, no matter how small, no matter how infrequent, is unac­ceptable. 
Realizing this goal will involve increases in money and resources for our nation's criminal justice system, and the money Bush proposes to add here is certainly needed. Tough laws areal­ready on the books. but tough laws do little without the threat of arrest, to say nothing of the threat of prosecution and spending time in jail. 
With an estimated 26 million recreational or habitual drug users, however, increasing the number of arrests could conceivably place 10 



OF INTEREST 
Volunteers for the Homeless Club is having its final organizational meeting today at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Anyone interested in volunteering should attend. Dates to volunteer will be selected immediately follow­ing the meeting. There will be a meeting for anyone interested in being an officer in the club at 8:30 in the esc. 
Toast Masters Club will hold an organi­zational meeting tonight in Room 223 Hayes­Healy. All members, old and new, are invited to attend. Call Lisa at 283-2759 for more infor­mation. 
Safe Station. a runaway shelter in South Bend, is looking for Juniors who wish to volun­teer. Anyone interested should attend a brief meeting today at 7 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. Call Katie at 283-2798 concerning this Junior Class service project. 


'Whatever the penalty, users must know that if caught they will pay.' 
Dave Bruner 
Viewpoint Editor 

percent of our population behind bars. Such an extreme would not be necessary. For many abusers, especially recreational ones, the sight of others being arrested and convicted may be enough. For first time users, a measured re­sponse could be given, ranging from a stiff fine to, say, suspension of driving privileges for six months. Whatever the penalty, users must know that if caught they will pay. 
The key to Bush's plan, though, is not where money is spent but where it is not spent. Those who assail his plan for being thin on funds seem to completely miss the point that money alone cannot and will not win the war against drugs. Two of the most powerful allies of illegal drugs are apathy and indifference. Though we don't like to admit it, we are all responsible for win­ning the war on drugs. It is easy to play arm­chair quarterback and lay blame on Congress and the President, but by doing so we arc only creating scapegoats for ourselves. This is our society. We live in it. If we want it to be free of drugs, we must act ourselves, and act in unison. 
Unfortunately, businesses and communities which have attempted to do just that arc run­ning into roadblocks, many of which have been erected by government itself. Tenants of public housing have difficulty evicting drug dealers from their buildings; Companies arn forbidden by some states from testing their workers for illegal drug use. Until we stop turning the other way, we will never be serious about the war on drugs. 
And until we shift the focus of the war from dollar amounts to user accountability, we will never win it. 
Dave Bruner is a senior govern­mentlphilosophy/P.P.E. major and is Viewpoint Editor of The Observer. 
Correction 

Due to a production error, the name and title of the author of the Inside Column in the September 12 issue of the The Observer was left out of the paper. That column was written by Monica Yant, a news copy editor. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 ................................................. Matt Gallagher Sports Copy Editor...... Theresa Kelly 
(219) 239-7471 
Sports Wed. Editor... Molly Mahoney VIewpoint Copy Editor..... Kim Skiles VIewpoint Layout. ...... Colleen Stepan Accent Editor .................. Paige Smoron The Observer (USPS 599 2_-4000) is published Monday through Friday except Accent Copy Ed .... Stephanie Snyder dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer is published by students of the 

Accent Designer ............. Alison Cocks 

Umvers1ty of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s College. Subscriptions may be pur­
NO Day Editor ....................Janet Herold 

chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
Ads Designers...........•.......•.••...••.....• 

The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights 
................ Shannon Roach, Mindy Breen, 
are reserved. 
.................... Sheila Jones. Jeanne Naylor 

Circle K will have an introductory meeting for all prospective members today at 6:15 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. If you have any questions, call Nick at 283-2055. 
ISO,the International Student Organization is having an organizational meeting today at 7 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, second floor LaFortune. Anybody interested is invited to at­tend. 
Iceberg Debates is looking for workers for this annual campus wide debate series. Those interested should contact Maeve O'Donovan at 283-2650 or the Student Govern­ment Office, Second floor LaFortune. Student Government is looking for a chairperson, committee members, and Residence hall repre­sentatives. 

Design Editor .................. Chris Labaree Design Assltant ..................... Greg Tice Typesetters ............................. Tim Kiefer News Editor ............................. Tim Quinn News Copy Editor........... John O'Brien Assistant News Editors. Flo Hoelker 


~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------w 
Wednesday, September 13, 1989 
Bio prof. wins Brand Award 
Special to The Observer 
Howard Saz, professor of bi­ological sciences at Notre Dame, has been awarded the first Bueding-Von Brand Memorial Award by the Ameri­can Society of Parasitologists. 
Saz received the award Au­gust 9 at the society's meeting in recognition of his contribu­tions to the biochemistry and pharmacology of helminiths, which are parasitic worms, and in honor of his 40 years of ba­sic research in the fields of mi­crobiology and parasitology. His research has been sup­ported continuously by the Na­tional Institute of Health. 
In 1953, Saz became a fellow of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis and spent a year at the University of Sh­effield under S.R. Elsden and Nobel laureate Sir Hans Krebs. Saz has been on the faculty of Louisiana State University School of Medicine and Johns Hopkins Universities. In 1969 he began his tenure at Notre 
Hatp[p)y 2~ ~~ lB~rt~cdJaty p ~~cc~atrcdJ ~atnn~~~~ ~ 
Love, Mom, Dad & Mike 
Dame in the biology depart­
ment. 
Through many years of labo­ratory research, Saz's work helped to demonstrate numer­ous differences between the biochemistry of parasites and their hosts. He chose as a model for study the large in­testinal roundworm, Ascaris lumbricoides, a common para­site of humans and many ani­mals. Using this parasite he showed that this organism was capable of living and obtaining energy in the absence of oxy­gen. In addition, he explained the intermediate enzymatic 

steps which are different in the parasite and may be amenable to chemotherapeutic drugs. 
The Bueding-Von Brand award memorializes two noted parasitologists, Theodor von Brand and Ernest Bueding. 
Saz worked closely with Bueding while he was at LSU 
and  Johns  Hopkins.  He  was  
also  acquainted  with  von  
Brand.  




Calllpus Ministry and You 
-----------------------MINISTRY-
Initiation to Spiritual Growth 
"Ever since the day we heard about you, we have never failed . to pray for yo_u; and what we ask God is that through perfect Wisdom and spmtual understanding you should reach the fullest 

At Notre Dame, people are invited to grow in­tellectually, emotionally, socially, physically and spiritually. The very atmosphere invites mem­bers of the University community to many dif­ferent levels and areas of growth. 

Among the greatest witnesses to growth are those men and women who -whether con­sciously or not -have committed themselves to growth along spiritual lines during their University years. 
Some do so through the worship of their par­ticular religious belief, some through the giving of their time to those who need it, some through giving of their income or wisdom or some com­bination of all the above, plus more. 
During the past academic year, thirteen per­sons made a very deliberate commitment to spiritual growth by investigation and respond­ing to (along with their sponsors and a staff of nine instructors) an almost year-long program of investigation and participation in the Rite of Christian Initiation. They met every Sunday from early fall until Easter, sharing their per­sonal stories of faith and spiritual growth. The process in which they immersed themselves is called the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults (RCIA), which has its roots in the initiation rites of the earliest Christian communities. 
Some persons who are involved in the RCIA have never been baptized. Others have been bap­tized, but never followed through with active Church membership or are drawn to seek mem­bership in the Catholic Church. Still others are looking to increase their awareness of the role 
The Observer page 3 
HPC discusses campus SYR policies 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Staff 
A new drive by Notre Dame's student government to convince the University to liberalize its policy on SYR dances was dis­cussed at Tuesday's Hall Presi­dent's Council (HPC) meeting, which was held at Flanner Hall. 
Mike Carrigan of the student government's cabinet said the cabinet was dismayed with the University's refusal to consult students about new restrictions on SYRs before they were im­posed last year. The restric­tions include a limit of one SYR per dorm per semester and a requirement that a dorm sell tickets for its SYR to 70 per­cent of its residents or face the SYR's cancellation. 
Carrigan asked HPC for as­sistance in forming a committee that would explore new ways to persuade the University to change its SYR policies. One of the possible avenues of per­suasion discussed would be a campus-wide circulation of pe­titions to students that would ask the University to re-exam­ine its policies. 
In other HPC business, James Dailey of the Notre Dame Environmental Action Club discussed the organiza­tion's need for volunteers to assist in the management of the University's new waste recy­cling program. Dailey said the program will soon be expanded to maintain receptacles for re­cyclable products like newspa­pers, glass, cardboard, mixed paper, and plastic throughout the campus. 
Members of the council were also given the dates when each 

:rhe-Obs.--e~~er--­
---. ----&.-=-Y~ ----­

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 

..------------------------.. 
~ ~ar-ioi'o ~~ 
;A. %otor-ontCl. A.; 
~ 

Now Hiring 
* Experienced Waitresses 
* 
Pizza Makers * Line Cooks 

* 
Part Time Banquet Waitresses 


Apply 2-5 pm 1412 South Bend Ave 232-4244 

knowledge of God's will." (Colossians 1 :9) 
of religion in their already begun journey of 
faith. 
If you fit in any of these categories (or have 
come up with one of your own), you might be in­
terested in learning more about the RCIA. To do 
so, just call Sr. Mary Curran at Campus 
Ministry (239-5242) to arrange at time to 
discuss the RICA program. 
During such a discussion, the process of the 
Rite for Christian Initiation will be explained. It 
begins with a period of inquiry, in which per­
sonal faith life experiences are shared, the 
Christian faith is examined and the word of God 
in scripture is reflected upon. Then, at a rite of 
welcome, those investigating membership in the 
Church are accepted as candidates for initia­
tion. They become known as "catechumens". 
They are welcomed into the Christian 
Community, which promises to support them in 
their faith journey. 
Arter being welcomed, those interested in ex­ploring the life of faith in this way are assisted by a sponsor and the RCIA team, the Christian way of life is more closely examined. Then, those who wish and are ready to commit to baptism or full communion take the final steps toward initiation on the first Sunday of Lent, during a special service during the Liturgy of the Word. They are now known as the "elect". 
The final step of preparation is the prepara­tion for baptism or renewal of baptismal promise. This culminates at the Easter Vigil Service with the sacraments of initiation (Baptism, confirmation and Eucharist) or a profession of faith in the Catholic Church before dorm will participate in this fall's Campus Challenge, a Notre Dame Athletic Depart­ment contest designed to drum up support for Notre Dames volleyball and soccer teams. Each dorm will be assigned a game to attend. The residents of the dorm who purchase tick­ets for their assigned game will be counted. At the end of the semester, prizes will be awarded to the dorm with the greatest percentage of its resi­dents attending its assigned 
game. 
The HPC was also informed by Tom King,Senior class vice­president, that guides for stu­dents going on any of the Notre Dame football team's six road trips this season will be avail­able at the senior class office and in the dining halls for $2 each. 



Attack 
continued from page 1 
that anyone seeing this vehicle or person call Security imme­diately at 284-5000. 
The Security department also has recommendations for pos­sible crime situations: If you 
are driving and think you are
being followed, do not park; drive to the Security Office and tell the dispatcher. If you are walking, run to the closest open residence hall or group of peo­ple. Always report any incident to Security immediately. 
Now hiring part time waitress for hmch and dinner hours. Apply 2·5pm at Oriental Express 6329 University Commons ust west of Univ Pari< Mall on State Road 23. next to Kroger. 272-6702 


0f'0PUS 


the entire assembly of believers. 
In the weeks following Easter, the new Christians meet to reflect on the meaning of the recent events in their lives. 
There are many witnesses to the spiritual growth efforts of the University community: walks to the grotto at the end of a night; men and women committed to religious values and direction staffing all residence halls; people with deep religious values in the classroom and staffing offices throughout the University; reli­gious services practically 'round the clock not only on Sunday, but every day of the week; folks with backward collars on the sidelines of ath­letic events; athletes giving thanks after signifi­cant accomplishments; record involvements in the Center for Social Concerns' projects; adver­tisements for becoming a contemplative nun in­terspersed with requests for 2 GA's, any game; 
A.A. meetings on campus every day of the week; the Voices of Faith Gospel Choir; liturgical and folk choirs; religious newspapers taking the bulk of space in the periodical section; religious houses dotting two lakes; chapels in every resi­dence hall. 
The spiritual atmosphere at Notre Dame is quite contagious. The RCIA is only one way of exploring issues related to faith and spiritual growth, but has the advantage of being a very structured program of initiation with a wide va­riety of participation for support and reflection. 
If this particular way might interest you, you might wish to be present at the informational session this evening. Call the Campus Ministry Office at 239-5242. 
Brought to you weekly by the Office of Campus Ministry and The Observer 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, September 13, 1989 

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS! It's time to Count On Domino's Pizza!® 






r----------------,
I -MONDAY'S-I I Beat the Clock! The time on I I the clock is the price you pay! 1 
I I 
Call from 6pm -7pm order Two 10" One-topping pizzas I
I 
and the time you call is the price you pay!I Call from 7prn-8pm order Two 12" One-topping pizzas I 
and the time you call is the price you pay! 1 I Call from 8pm-9pm order Two 14" One-topping pizzas I and the time you call is the price you pay! I I Call from 9pm -10pm order Two One-topping Pan Pizzas I 
I epizzaa, ancl the time you call:::::::::.an. I _ coupon per Older. Cuolomer pays I
I 
--.VIIIIdalat.d 
L 1: ® 
=---~~~---J 


r----------------,
I -THURSDAY'S-I : THINK THICK! : 1 Get One Medium Pan Pizza 1 
1 loaded with cheese, 1 1 and pepperoni 1 : Dll J~ :
FORONLY 
: !SUI~~~·~ $6.00 : 
l 
I Offer valid only on Thursday. One coupon per order. I Customer pays sales tax. Valid at listed locations. 
J 
Umited delivery area. C1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 


r----------------,
I -SUNDAY'S-I 
I I

DOUBLE FEATURE! 
I I I Get Two Small Cheese Pizzas! I I I I I
FOR ONLY 
I I 
I I ~~ $5.49 I I 
Offer valid only on Sunday. One coupon per order. I Customer pays sales tax. Valid at listed locations. I
l I JI 
Umited delivery area. CJ1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 



r----:ANvoAv:----1 
I I
Count on Domino's Pizza® 
I I
to supply you with
I I 
I Two Large Cheese Pizzas I I anyday of the week! I 
I I I I 
I I ~-.~~$;.;~ I I 
Offer valid anyday of the week! One coupon per order. 
I I
Customer pays sales tax. Valid at listed locations. Umited delivery area. CJ1989 Domino's pizza, Inc. 

IL----------------JI 
What in the world are you waitin' for!?! 


CALL NOW! 
Notre Dame University 
271-0300 
1835 South Bend Ave. 

; .. .
r~.... 

------· ----------------------------------~--~-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 13, 1989 


Crime 
continued from page 1 
the noise standards at the minimum. I hope for more than that," said Doran. 
Many times a call to the police can be avoided if students get to know their neighbors, said Doran. "I encourage you to get out and talk to your neighbors," he said. 
Bennett addressed the ques­tion of off-campus parties. He said the police will not go to a party unless they receive a complaint, in which case they must go. He added that if stu­dents need help controlling a party they should call the police department and ask to speak to the supervisor. 
The student should then ex­plain that he or she is the host/hostess of the party and would like some help control­ling the situation. He suggested that the resident meet the offi­cer outside when the car ar­rives. 

"I would rather go after the rapist or the burglar, but if we get a complaint about a party we have to go," said Bennett. He said that a 500 person off­campus party last year required 14 units to calm it down. That 
is  almost  half  the  city's  
available  officers  on a given  
night.  

Bennett said that two weeks ago four extra officers were added to Beat 10 and Beat 11 on Eddy Street. The officers will be on duty between the hours of 6 p.m. and 3 a.m. seven days a week, he said. 
~ ••c ~~·t·:J~.tr;.,.r:/~·.:Qo~a~~O~ ~D>.
ri7J.~~?v~--~~cll~~«:t~nT:I•o•o~a\5~·~· 
~~  JUNIORS  * JUNIORS  * JUNIORS  ~~  
0~  BE AN INTEGRAL PART OF JUNIOR PARENTS  ~~  
y:r  WEEKEND!  •  ""  
o.~  
~ llfj  APPLICATIONS FOR THE EXECUTIVE COMMITIEE ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE  ---~ ~  

~ STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE ----> 3rd FLOOR ,<>A N LaFORTUNE. ·~ ~i DEADLINE TO APPLY SEPT. 18th ~~ ~~ ANY QUESTIONS? CALL MARY ANN x2855 ,~; 
!Ji~s:J_~f~/0: D0~ ..~~-~:C.•h.~~ ~:!i~
\.:lJ2:0;m~~¢~Q~~.~~ .Q.c>~O .. o~ 
The Observer 
Bennett said he expects stu­dents to be respectful of his of­ficers and in return the officers should be respectful, too. If students have problems with an officer they should call the De­partment and ask to speak to a supervisor, he said. 
"This year we hope to im­prove communication and co­operation between off-campus students, Student Government and the Police Department," said Helms. He said relation­ships in the past-have been strained. "Right now we have no base," said Helms. He was pleased that the number of stu­dents were up from last year. 
Breslin said when students are more aware of the prob­lems less parties will get broken up and it will be better for students on and off-campus. 
Tom Helms and Mike Locas­cio are the Hall President Coun­cil's off-campus representatives and Michael Sullivan serves as Student Government's off-cam­pus representative. 


If you are a Saint Mary's student interested in working for The Observer, come to an informational meeting Thursday at 8 in Room 304 Haggar College Center . For more information, contact Christine Gill at 284-5365. 


China 
continued from page 1 
he said. 

A friend of Qiang's whose fa­ther worked in a high position, asked his father if he could help Qiang attain a travel permit. Qiang said he did have some difficulties at the Chinese and American Embassies. Ultimately, with the help of friends and family connections he was able to attain the visa. 
Qiang said he received much help from the older generation. "During this time I got the love and understanding of my fam­ily," said Qiang. 
Connections in Bejing helped Qiang to plan the safest trip, he said. In Bejing he was finally able to visit families and talk to them as friends had explained to them why he was there prior to his visit, said Qiang. 
At this time Qiang spoke to numerous people in the city in­cluding taxi drivers and nurses. 
From these conversations he 

55ir 'Richerd's ...
ft 
HAIR DESIGNS Men & Women's Cuts, Perms, Styles Q 277-0734  - .  
417 DlxieWay North (Roseland) South Bend, IN 46637 25% off Nexus, ThermaFuse  ~­ _ J  

&. Paul Mitchel Products with this coupon. 

Series subscriptions and individual performance tickets available at the Saint Mary's box olfice, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets by phone al 219 I 284-4626. VISA, MasterCard orders only. For updated program information. call the Saini Mary's Campus Events Hotline, 674-0900, category 1740. 
. t!t-­1.:-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii Samt Mary's Coli~~ iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~
NOTRE DAME·INDIANA 
~~11/llf'~/ 
at Saint Mary's College 1989-90 PERFORMING ARTS SERIES Friday, October 6 
Friday, September 15 
THE MINNESUI'A OPERA
DANCE 

MADAME BUTIERFLY
KALEIDOSCOPE 
Friday, February 9 CHAMBER BLUES with CORKY SIEGEL & THE CONSORTIUM STRING QUARTET 
All performances 8 p.m., O'L.aughlin Auditorium 
page 5 

could better grasp the situa­tion, said Qiang. 
"I was careful and I relied on my friends for help," said Qiang. "My timing was a little late, but I felt that I did every­thing I came back for." He said it was often hard to get people to talk about the situation as the memories were so painful. 
Qiang left China after a two month stay. He said customs did take him aside, but that it was no problem. He said when he returned to the U.S. students here were very anxious to hear news from China. 
"I made up my mind then that I wanted to devote myself to doing something for my coun­try," said Qiang. He left Notre Dame on Saturday to volunteer in the national Chinese solidar­ity group in Washington. The group has approximately 40,000 members. He said he will continue some independent studies. 
"I feel sad to leave my physics and my Notre Dame friends," said Qiang. 
Qiang said after a year or so he would like to come back to Notre Dame as a student in the Peace Studies program. He said his future plans also include a trip home to China and interna­
tional travel. 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
with full orchestra 
Friday, April 20 
CHICAGO ·CITY LIMITS 

The JEC/SWE proudly presents the 1989 ... 



Industry Day 
Register for the Industry Day Banquet 
September 20th, 1989 
Forms will be sent in the mail for this dinner with company representatives. ( Extra forms can be picked up in the Engineering Student Center) 


Registration is due by Sept. 14! Cancellation deadline is Sept. 15! 
$5.00 banquet deposit ( Returned after banquet) Return forms to ... Industry Day Box, in the Engineering Student Center 




Viewpoint 
Wednesday, September 13, 1989page 6 
_'"':1-e-Obse~~-­
---=-.1.-:-1-1 ---.. -£--=Y=-~&.---­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor......Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor........ .......... .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor. .. ........ Theresa Kelly Production Manager............ Alison Cocks Accent Editor.......................... John Blasi Systems Manager............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor. .... . ............. Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor.............. Christine Gill Controller........................... Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS 

Proper guidance fuels journeys of faith 
Dear Hditor: 

I was pained to read Mark Derwent's editorial of Sept. 11 entitled, "Objectivity is needed in making religious decisions." While reading the article, I kept wondering how Mr. Derwent would answer objectively his children's inquiries concerning religion. I am assuming that he believes some "religion" is good for his children and that his particular religious beliefs ei­ther should not enter the pic­ture at all or should be com­pared and contrasted with the beliefs of all other religions (a sort of equal time approach). can "rationally" choose to ac­right but the duty to Now the former would do away cept his American citizenship? I "indoctrinate," i.e. pass on a with Christmas, the Gregorian think not. set of doctrines or beliefs to Calendar, and Mass at the Realistically, it is the parents' their children, to show them the Grotto (perhaps even the con­responsibility to transmit to path that they are taking in cept of Notre Dame itself?!?). their children what they believe their lives. The duty of the chil­This would not be good. to be the truth and their rea­dren comes later when they be­
Say Mom, Dad, and the kids sons why, based on personal come rational and informed in­go to Mass at the Grotto experience and the testimony of dividuals and affirm or deny (Monk's presence optional). others in the community. All what they were given to accept Would the Equal Time Parents faiths are created, preserved, as truth. Their decision to then be obliged to take kiddies and transmitted in the context choose their religion as adults to the neighborhood temple, of a community. The Western is not hindered at all by what mosque, synagogue, (Christian) theological tradition they were taught as children. conglomeration of large rocks, believes that, in addition to As a child I was told that Santa etc.? Pursuing Mr. Derwent's freedom, God gave Himself and existed. Did this fact inhibit in line of thought yet further, His Spirit to the community of any way my coming to the inde­should parents be under faith. So where does the pendent conclusion that Santa obligation in the name of Christian find/experience God? does not exist? Of course not. impartiality to withhold telling In himself or in the people he is In the end, we spend the whole the child and the government commanded to love as himself? of our rational lives either af­that he is an American citizen? Perhaps the community pre­firming or denying, by our ra­
Should the parents and the na­scribes "one path" to a tional thought and free action, tional community first inform "spiritual location" because a set of beliefs that served ·as a the youth about the pros and they believe that God adequately necessary starting point on our cons, the beliefs and taboos en­shows them the clearest, individual journeys of faith. tailed in holding citizenship in straightest, or truest path to Dan Scheidt all other countries and then himself. Grace Hall leave the child in limbo until he Parents have not only the Sept. 12, 1989 
Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. If you have something to say, bring your written thoughts to the Observer offices located on the third floor of LaFortune, or send them to: Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame Indiana 46556. 
~~--------------------------------------------------~ 
DOONESBUAY 


OI<A Y, (}{I&f; OU/<13, fXJ {)JH6T?e 1'3 l3HG2 YOUAUA/AY5 
IT'S 

3:3()2 f){)K£! P/JOPU3 AT 
DROP/NON 
REAUY~ 

\ 3:30A.M 7 
I 
I 

Recent attacks highlight the need for a security escort service on campus 
Dear Editor: and set up a task foren to im­The recent attacks of stu­plement a plan for a student dents on campus highlight a security escort serviee around growing concern for personal campus. At other schools, such security. I transferred to Notre services range from paid stu­Dame last year and was sur­dent eadets to fraternities and prised by the lack of a student sororities doing it as a service security escort service on cam­project. Until a long term plan pus, a paid position at my pre­can be implemented, perhaps a vious school with a student men's dorm would lik1~ to initi­population equal to that of the ate such a serviee project. The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's responsibility could even rotate community. The recent attacks around the dorms or serve as a on campus demand full atten­joint project between tion to the issue of personal se­brother/sister dorms. With a curity. eouple of two-way radios, vol­unteers, and a concern for each 
Our safety on campus can no other, a security escort service longer be taken for granted. would prove to be one of the Because we are not in an urban most beneficial programs for 
setting, we tend to be lax about the students on campus. our personal security. We must 
Gina Mahony 

realize that, as a large student 
Siegfried Hall 

population, we are an easy tar­
Sept. 12. 1989

get. It was reported that a woman was attacked between the CSC and the library. As a Statue of griffon resident of Siegfried Hall, it is apparently not safe for me to a golden idea walk 200 yards to the library. Imagine living in Lyons Hall Dear Editor: and completing a paper at the So now we are to have a new LaFortune Computer Lab at 4 campus "protector," a huge 
a.m. The problems are that ob­statue of a griffon. Thn Oxford vious. English Dictionary gives us this information about the inspira­
Education is most important. tion for this bit of metal: "A I am sure that students at Ohio fabulous animal usually repre­State and the University of sented as having the head and Michigan have been warned of wings of an eagle and the body the dangers of their surround­and hind quarters of a lion. By ings from the first day of the Greeks, they were believed freshman orientation. Just as to inhabit Scythia and to keep the students living off-campus jealous wateh over the gold of have been warned about the that country." VI The Oxford importance of security, stu­English Dictionary 838 (2d ed., dents living on-campus must be 1989). So relax, everybody, just as aware of their sur­your gold is safe! roundings. 
Edward J. Murphy propose that student Matthews Professor of Law government take the initiative Sept. 9, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
ON& NIGHT 

OFPA5610NNOI IAION'Tg){_V/J
• ANYTHIN6, 
'The most valuable of all talents 
SIR.
\ 

is that of never using two words
I when one will do.' 
Thomas Jefferson 




Accent -.. 
Wednesday, September 13, 1989 
page 7 


Insane Irish create spirit 
Irish Insanity-NO's new 'pep'club 
games. "Notre Dame's student Michigan fan before the game 
JANICE ARCHER 

accent writer body spirit is unparalleled," he at Stonehenge. Members of says, "but there was no single Irish Insanity walked around For those who attended last pep club to coordinate events." campus in togas, gathering 
year's Notre Dame -Penn State So he gathered ten to twelve spectators for the ritual per­
football game, halftime was people, and the group operated formed at midnight. In addi­
"the marshmallow wars." under Student Government for tion, nyers proclaiming insults 
About a week before the game, a month. Last October, they to the school by Jimmy Johnson nyers were posted in dorms applied for and were granted were distributed before the 
around campus. They included club status. Miami game. 
a disparaging quote from Penn After existing for a time with The club's main event for the 
State coach Joe Paterno about no funds and a small member­fall will take place the weekend the lost mystique of Notre ship, Irish Insanity hopes to of the USC game. A fourteen Dame. and a statement that the concentrate more on activities. foot high Trojan horse will be wars were coming. At the half, There are presently 50 to 60 built out of wood and a mod­the marshmallows new in the members. The main goal of the ernized version of the fall of participating. In the same way, hockey game, throwing confetti rain as students hurled them at group is to get students even Troy will be performed at the Irish Insanity hopes to target and doing pushups for every goal scored. This rally of sup­
one another. The instigator of more involved and enthusiastic pep rally. The performers hope as many other sports as possi­
the sticky fun was a relatively about Irish Athletics. 'There to bring the horse to the tail­ble. port "makes the games more 
new club on campus, Irish isn't a better campus on which gaters the morning of the The group also wants to con­fun for students and the 
Insanity. to build on school spirit," says game, stopping every fifteen centrate more this year on teams," says Straub. Straub. "The students really minutes to reenact the skit. sports that are not as well Irish Insanity is always look­
Irish Insanity was founded bv Erich Straub last year after a care about the teams." Future events include having publicized. These sports, such ing for more new and creative disappointing '87-'88 Among the club's other activi­a core group of 100 to 200 stu­as baseball and volleyball, are ideas to keep the student body b ;ketball season. He noticed ties last year, along with the dents at basketball games enjoying tremendous successes excited and, despite a win or that the crowd was not always marshmallow wars, was a stand in a section by the goal in national tournaments. Last loss, to make each game a enthusiastic at some of the "human sacrifice" of a and lead the student body in year, the club attended a spirited success. 
Bob Mould successful with Workbook after Husker Du's tragic break up 
rejected this proposal, it led to end of something really impor­

JOHN LANE 

accent writer tension in the band and, ulti­tant. "Wishing Well" which fea­mately, Husker Du's breakup. tures one of the few electric 
In late spring, ex-Husker Du guitar solos in Workbook. guitarist/vocalist Bob Mould Immediately following the Two tracks that seem espe­released Workbook, his first band's demise, Mould began cially personal to Mould are ever solo album. Workbook. writing songs, mostly on his "Brasilia Crossed With which may be the best album of acoustic guitar. This laid the Trenton" and "Compositions 1989, is the finest solo album groundwork for Workbook. For The Young And Old." These this writer has heard since Pete Whereas before he was not able songs describe Mould's disillu­Townshend's Scoop in 1983. to write mellow songs, Mould, sionment with big-city living 
When Husker Du broke up in who produced Workbook. now and materialism, and his early 1988, they were on the had more freedom to do what yearning for the old days when verge of stardom. As the he wanted. The meaningful things were much simpler. premier thrash-pop band of the lyrics are still there, but the mid-80s, the Minneapolis-based sound has been turned way The best songs on Workbook trio was ready to break away down. are "Poison Years" and from the underground scene "Sinners And Their and establish a wide following. Workbook opens with Repentances." They are power· However, due to personal prob­"Sunspots," a melodic, purely ful tracks which seem directly lems and differing philosophies instrumental track that sounds tied to Husker Du's breakup. of music styles, the band de­similar to a Simon & Garfunkel On "Poison Years" Mould de­cided to call it quits. song. The rest of the album ba­clares "Treason is the rea­
Through a half dozen albums, sically maintains this pace. son/for my poison years" and Husker Du had established "Heartbreak A Stranger" and on "Sinners" he sings "I see the their own sound. The band "Dreaming, I Am" are mellow errors of my /oh-so humble played loud, fast songs but with tracks with excellent acoustic ways." meaningful lyrics. often writing guitars setting up great lyrics. While the breakup of the about loneliness and confusion. "See A Little Light," which great American band Husker However. Mould tired of was released as a single this Du was indeed tragic, it has al­Husker Du's incessant speed summer, and "Wishing Well," lowed Bob Mould to come out and suggested a more diverse are other highlights of with this excellent solo album, sound for the band. When Workbook. Despite its upbeat Workbook. Any Bob Mould fan bassist Greg Norton and melody, "See A Little Light" is a can catch him in concert on drummer/vocalist Grant Hart sad song about accepting the October 7 at the Chicago Metro. 


~----------­
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, September 13, 1989
.. -
Bielecki shuts down Expos, Cubs widen lead in NL East 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Mike Bielecki pitched a two-hitter -allowing no hits over the final seven in­nings -and the Chicago Cubs beat the Montreal Expos 2-0 Tuesday night to take a 4 1/2­game lead over St. Louis in the National League East. 
It was the fourth straight victory for the Cubs and their fifth win in six games. The fourth-place Expos lost for the fifth time in six games and fell six games behind the Cubs. The Cardinals lost 5-2 to Pittsburgh. 
The Cubs also moved 5 112 games ahead of the third-place New York Mets, who lost 2-1 to Philadelphia. 
Bielecki gave up a leadoff single to Tim Raines in the first inning and a single to Tim Wallach with one out in the second. 
"I've never pitched a better game but it could have gone ei­ther way," said Bielecki. whose 

previous best effort was a 
three-hit, 4-0, shutout against 
Los Angeles on July 19. 
Bielecki, 16-6, and Bryn 

Smith, 10-9, were locked in a 
scoreless duel when Vance Law 
opened the fifth with a single 
and moved to third on Shawon 
Dunston's double. 
Smith retired Rick Wrona on 

an infield pop and struck out 
Bielecki. Jerome Walton then 
swung at a 1-0 pitch that 
eluded catcher Nelson 
Santovenia and Law scored the 
unearned run on the passed 
ball. 
Hyne Sandberg led off the eighth inning against reliever John Candelaria with his 30th homer to give the Cubs a 2-0 lead. 
Pirates 5, Cardinals 2 
Bob Walk allowed five hits in 8 2-3 innings for his fourth victory over St. Louis this season and Pittsburgh 
continued its role of spoiler by 1-teating the Cardinals. 
Phillies 2, Mets 1 
Dickie Thon homered with one out in the ninth inning to lift Philadelphia past New York. 
Reliever Don Aase, 1-5, re­tired pinch-hitter Len Dykstra on a popup to start the ninth, before Thon hit a 2-2 pitch over the left-field wall for his 13th home run. 
The Mets, who are 28-41 on the road, have 18 games left in the season. 
Roger McDowell, 4-6, pitched two scoreless innings for the victory. Since being acquired from the Mets on June 18, McDowell has not allowed a run at home. Two of his wins are against New York. 
Frank Viola and Ken Howell also started against each other in Philadelphia on Aug. 7, with the Phillies winning 2-1 with a run in the bottom of the ninth. 
Twins 8, Blue Jays 2 Kent Hrbek had a grand slam and a career-high five RBis and David West won for the third time in four starts since arriv­ing in the Frank Viola trade. West yielded six hits and struck out a career-high seven in seven innings. 

White Sox 11, Orioles 1 
Eric King beat Baltimore for the third time this season and Ivan Calderon, Carlton Fisk and Scott Fletcher all homered. King yielded three hits in seven innings and raised his lifetime record to 6-1 against Baltimore. 
By the end of the fourth in­ning the White Sox had seven runs, 10 hits and 15 baserun­ners and had chased three Baltimore pitchers, including Ben McDonald, the No. 1 choice in the June amateur draft. McDonald pitched two-thirds of an inning and gave up two runs and three hits, including Calderon's three-run homer that gave Chicago a 7-0 lead in the fourth inning. 
Indians fire Edwards 
Doc Edwards, his team 14 1/2 games out of first place, was fired as manager of the Cleveland Indians Tuesday and replaced on an interim basis by special assignment scout John Hart. 
Hart was third base coach last season at Baltimore and was brought to Cleveland by Indians president Hank Peters, a former Orioles general man­ager. 
Edwards' dismissal came as the team had lost eight of its last 10 games, and was an­nounced by Peters, who said, 
''This is not a particularly happy occasion for me." 
Edwards had kept the Indians in contention through mid­summer. The club was at .500 with a 54-54 record and 1 1/2 games out of first place in the American League East on Aug. 
4. Since then the team went 11­24. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including spaces. 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from ND campus 233·2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS !1!!1111111111111 
My husband & I are longing to 
adopt a child. We have gone 
through a home study and have 
been approved by a licensed 
agency. If you should know of 
anyone who is considering 
releasing a child for adoption, 
please call Marie or Rick collect 
(219) 259-0160 
Word processing experience plus 
BA in English 271·0682. 
If you haven't picked up your Value Check coupon book, please pick them up from the Information Desk, 1st Floor LaFortune. Open 9am-9pm weekdays, and Noon-9pm weekends. 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 
287-4082. 

[iOoST/FOUND) 
Lost: pr. black Vuamets. Left at LaFortune's Auto-bank teller on 9/11, at 11 :05 AM . Call Tim X4043 
Lost Gold HS class ring w/tiger on 
face & 
State Championship ring 
Both from Rock Springs High 
School 
Large reward offered 
x1861 
Lost· 22k gold chain w/pendant on 9/5 on campus. Call Shyla Paul or lv. Message 283. 3514 
WANTED I 
ATIENTION: EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY WORK. INFO. CALL 504·646·1700 
~=~:~.~~-~-------------------·--
Sunchase Tours is currently recruiting Campus Representatives to promote our Collegiate Winter Ski Trips & 
Spring Break Ski & Beach Trips. 
Earn top commissions and free 
trips! Call 1-800·321·5911 for 
additional information. Campus 
organizations welcome! 
V-Tapes all1988·89 N.D. football games. Please call Paul Roy 232· 7602 
HELP !Ill I need a ride to Ann Arbor, MICHIGAN this weekend Ill $$$ Please call DEVON #284·4236 
ATIENTION: EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868. 

WANTED: Need young man to work flexible hours -8 or more per week in retail store. Position is conducive to studying while earning $4.25 per hour. Call 272­5404. 
WANTED: Male or female student photographer, experienced in all phases of photography including darkroom, to work 12 hours/week in ultra-modern University photographic facility. Call Bruce Harlan or Jaime Cripe 239-7350. 
MUST HAVE 2 MICH ST GA'S & 2 
STU TIX. $$ NO OBJECT.WILL 
THROW IN FREE PITI TICK 
CALL JOHN X2065 

MOM NEEDS HELP WITH 9 YR 
OLD SON 3 NIGHTS A WEEK. 
MUST HAVE OWN RIDE. FOR 
MORE INFO CALL BETH @ 
234-7444 

FOR RENT 
For Rent · 1 car garage in 
neightborhood of Notre Dame 
phone 272-6045 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
219-291-7153. 

FOR SALE 
COLOR TV RENTALS 
13-INCH, $50/SEM, $80/YR; 
19·1NCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 
25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR 
CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE 
DELIVERY 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272· 
5959 

Round-trip ticket anywhere in the contiguos U.S. $100. Call: #1693. 
For Sale · 1980 Dodge Aspen 
$750. Grad student needs $. 
r-27-2_-9-02-7----...,. 
f TICKETS
"'---------...J 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Money for your
Michigan Tickets Call Dan x3001 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
---------·--------------------------­
NEED 4 TIX FOR Ml STATE! 
PLEASE CALL #3803 
ALUMNUS WANTS 2 TO 3 GA'S 
FOR USC OR PITIII 
CALL LENNY COLLECT DAYS 
AND EVENINGS (217) 785-2217. 
NEED PITI GA'S 
WILL DO ANYTHING TO 
GET THEM 
CALL MARK 1400 
TRADE 2 MICHIGAN STATE 
TICKETS FOR 2 USC TICKETS 
CALL X2766 WILL TRADE 2 MICH.ST./ND FOOTBALL TIX AND/OR 1 HOTEL ROOM FOR NO/USC WEEKEND FOR 2 NO/USC FOOTBALL TIX. CAL (407) 727-8354 
Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. 
WANTED: 4 NO/USC tickets. Pat 
Burns (317)848-1500 or (317) 
758·4056 (nights). 
FOR SALE: 2 Mich. St. student tix. 
Make offer. BILL X1924. 
NEED 2 USC & 2MICH ST. TIX PLEASE!! X1058 
NEED MICH. STATE TIXII Stud. orGA CALL Mike #2742 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR USC, 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR PAY CASH. CALL TIM, FLANNER HALL, EXT. 1143. 
HELP ME 
I NEED MICH ST. & USC TIX 
2 G.A.'S & 4STUDS. 
CALL NICOLE X2818 
WE NEED MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS: 2 GA AND 2 STUDENT. 
CALL RICHARD OR ANDREA 
AT 271-0519. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR 
NAVY GAME. CALL TIM, 
FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143. 
HELP FULFILL MY 
GRANDPARENT'S LIFELONG 
DREAM. SELL ME 2 MICHIGAN 
STATE GAS. CALL PETE 288­
2348 AFTER 6 PM . 
$$$$USC TICKETS NEEDED$$$ 
GA'S OR STUDENT IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL CAROL AT 283-4220. 
....DON'T GO TO MICHIGAN"••• SELL ME YOUR TICKET FOR $45 -MARK 271·5691 
NEED CASH ??? 
Sell me 2 GA's for MICHIGAN ST. 
Call Laura x2851 
Need 1 tix for Michigan State 
Student or G.A. $Cash$ or trade(USC or PITI) 
Call Mike 2031 
HelpII My friend is driving 12 hrs to see N.D. I need one student Mich State tick for him. Call Liz X2798 

$$$ HELP!! I NEED 2,3 or 4 TIX TO ANY GAME. STUD OR GA PLEASE CALL KATHY X4421$$$ 
IN NEED OF 4 MIAMI GA'S AND 
2 PITI GA'S --DESPERATE 
$$$ CALL JEFF X3555 

NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET for U 
of M game! Kathleen 283-4930 
I NEED 2 SMU STUDENT TIX -­
PLEASE CALL BILL AT 3340 
NEED 3 MICH ST. TIX CALL 
KEVIN x-1491 

Desperate! Will give my first born 
or any $ for 2 USC GAs Chris B 
#1484 

MICHIGAN GA'S FOR SALE!! 
MICHIGAN GA'S FOR SALE !I 
call Matt -3233 

CA LAWYER NEEDS USC GA'sl!l 
PLEASE CALL AMBER x252911!! 
NEED 4 Michigan State GA's and 
1 Michigan State Student. If you 
have any of these tickets we have 
good $$$$ for you. Please call 
Jim at x 3107 (or) 
Tessa at 271-9895 

NEED 2 MICH ST GAS--WILLING TO PAY. CALL AMY AT 2654. 
HELP! Need 4 Pitt GAs for my 
family Call Chad x1132 

Need 1 STU for Mich St and 4 SMU GAS Kim3881 
Need up to 4 Mich St & 8 Pitt TIX Money no problem!! Mike X1236 
I Need Tix For Any Home Game, GA or Student. Call Matt 283-3372 
I need Mich. state tix-·GAs and student tix for my wealthy girlfriend and her family. Please call John at 3586 and leave a message. 
Rich alum needs 2 PITI GA's. Call Tom at 1771. 
Big bucks for 2 and/or 4 USC GA's. Call Tom at 1771 . 
Culturally deprived relatives coming to see big-time football. Need two stud. tix. for Pitt game so they can experience true culture. Call David E. X4364 
NEED 2 SMU TIX-GA OR STU. NAME YOUR PRICE Ill CALL MA TI #3489 
MICHIGAN STATE GA T.IC NEEDED FOR DAD. WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL 1224. 
DESIRE 2 M.S.U. TICKETS. PRICE IS IMMATERIAL AT THE MOMENT. CALL 283-1983. 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO EITHER ND·PITI OR NO-USC. ANY SECTION. TIM SOSNOWSKI X· 4043 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
DESPERATELY NEEDED· 
MICHIGAN STATE TIX!I!! 
NEED 3 STUDENT TIX AND 4 
GA'S. 
BIG MONEY BIG MONEY!!II 
CALL JON PAUL AT X1603 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 3 GA'S (PREFERABLY 
TOGETHER) FOR MICHIGAN 
STATE-·> CALL MIKE X1151 
NEED 4 GAs AND 1 STU FOR 
MICH ST. WILL PAY$$$! x296 

NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. ST PLEASE!I!III MY UTILE SIS IS COMING OUT + PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF SHE DOES'NT GO. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE TIX! CALL MATI #3489 
NEED UP TO 6 USC TICKETS. 
MONEY IS NO PROBLEM. CALL 
JIM AT X1236. 
Need up to 4 Mich State. Good 
$$$offered. Kevin 1663. 

Help educate my culturally repressed relatives from Wyoming by selling me 2 GA's to Mich ST. Cal x1859 
Need 2 Tix for Mich ST. Have PITI & big$$. Call Jim x1653 
NEED 2 USC GA'SIII! PARENTS ARE COMING OUT FROM CA · PLEASE HELP ME OUT! KRISTEN X2702 
I NEED 2 USC TICKETS. 
PLEASE!!! CALL BETH AT 2722 
WUBNU!!I 
WANTED: USC vs. NDTICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812 
WANTED: USC vs. NDTICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812 
HELP! Ne!ld 2 Mich St. tixl $ x1308 
I fyou have Mich ST. Tix to sell calx1308 
$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need USC GA TIX CALL CHERI X2605 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 5 MICH ST. GA OR ST TIX PLEASE CALL LINDA X 2999 OR X3023 
Help 1!!11 
I need 2 GA's for the MICHIGAN 
STATE game (Sept 23). 
call Melissa at x4036 
PERSONALS 
HiAg
-----------------------·------------­
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
Campus Hard Rock band seeks 
bassist. Experience a must. Call 
Glenn at X3064 or Vu at Xl809. 
Attention ND Students! 
$4.50 Haircuts 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
M·F 8·5 
Sat. 8-4 
Closed Wed. 
HAPPY 21st B·DAY SCHMED!I You've always been a "close" friend, but now we have a certain "bond" between us & I feel you deserve a "special" gift! Remember, you can run but you cannot hide from DEATH!! Have a good one! I love ya! 
Support China Relief Fund 
Buy "Freedom & Democracy" T-shirts and sweatshirts. Place orders at Student government office on the 2nd floor of Lafortune 
Tommy S., Where have you been the last three months? You have no idea how I pined away for you. I sat home and cried all summer. I hope we get together soon. Love, Col'n'Ter 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234·3541 
HEY CABALLERO! 
Now that you've made the 
volleyball team, maybe you can 
get us dates! 
CONGRATSI 
Gooch the Pious, the Cat, "T", the 
Weasel, and the Fish. 
P.S. The dates have to be females. 
If you're gay on this 
campus,chances are you feel 
alone.We're here for you.Write 
Gays and Lesbians at 
ND/SMC,Box194 Notre 
Dame46556.And join us Sun 17th 
6·8,300Health Center for:Coming 
Out: The Rap Session. 
Dance · type music band seeks BASS and LEAD GUITARISTS. Call x3745 or x3769 after midnight! 
MIKE NEWELL·! DREAM ABOUT YOU EVERY NIGHT II I SINCERELY DESIRE YOUR HOT · SS,A'10'. 
L-BEAN 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday. September 13.~portS Wednesday 
page 9 


SPORTS CALENDAR AL LEADERS SPORTS LIST 
BASEBALL'S TOPTEN Based on 406 at Bats.
Sports Calendar 

Home games in CAPS AMERICAN LEAGUE Wednesday G AB R H Pet. 
Men's soccer vs. DETROIT, 7:30 p.m. 
Lansford Oak 130 485 68 165 .340 
Women's soccer vs. MINNESOTA, 5 
Puckett Min 142 566 68 192 .339 
p.m. Boggs Bsn 140 556 ~ 186 .335 Sax NY 142 586 81 188 .321 Thursday Yount Mil 143 551 00 176 .319 
No sports scheduled. ADavis Sea 123 439 74 139 .317 Baines Tex 133 463 72. 147 .317 Franco Tex 141 521 76 165 .317 Browne Cle 135 531 73 166 .313
Friday 

Women's soccer vs. I USB 
Sierra Tex 142 560 91 173 .309 
Volleyball hosts Notre Dame In-
Home Runs vitational 
McGriff, Toronto, 36; BJackson, Kansas City, 31; Carter, Cleveland, 31; Whitaker, Detroit, 28; Esasky, Boston, 26; McGwire, Oakland, 26; Sierra, Texas, Saturday 
26; Deer, Milwaukee, 25. Women's golf at Illinois State In­vitational NL LEADERS Football at Michigan, 2:30 p.m. BASEBALL'S TOPTEN 
Men's and women's cross country at Based on 406 at Bats.
Georgetown 
NATIONAL LEAGUE G AB R H Pet. 
Sunday 

WCiarkSF 144 532 00 181 .340 Women's golf at Illinois State In­
TGwynn SO 141 540 79 182 .337 vitational LSmith Atl 122 443 81 141 .318 Men's soccer at Marquette Guerrero StL 144 507 55 160 .316 Grace Chi 127 458 66 142 .310 
Monday Walton Chi 108 444 63 132 .297 

The Observer I Laura Stanton 
Oquendo StL 144 502 55 147 .293
No sports scheduled. 
Raines Mon 130 463 73 135 .292 MThmpsnStL 136 476 57 138 .290 
BASEBALL
Tuesday 

KMitchell SF 136 477 00 138 .289 No sports scheduled. AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Home Runs KMitchell, San Francisco, 42; HJohnson, New York, 34; GDavis, Houston, 32; East Division May20 EDavis, Cincinnati, 31; Sandberg, Chicago, 30; Strawberry, New York, 27; 
w L Pet. GB 
Men's soccer at Loyola Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 22; JaCiark, San Diego, 22; WCiark, San Francisco, 22. 
Toronto 00 65 .552 Baltimore 79 68 .537 2 Milwaukee 73 72. .503 7
GOLF RESULTS 

Boston 70 74 .486 91/2 New York 01 78 .462 13 1989 Notre Dame Campus 
Cleveland 66 78 .458 13 1/2 Championship Detroit 55 91 .377 251/2 Men's results 
West Division Joe Dennen 73-71-144 
w L Pet. GB Pat Kusek 72-76-148 
Oakland 87 56 .608 Chris Day1on 74-74-148 Kansas City 84 00 .583 3 1/2 Mike Grisanti 74-74-148 California 82 61 .573 5 Joe Huston 76-72-148 Texas 73 70 .510 14 Tom Farrell 74-76-150 Minnesota 72. 72. .500 15 1/2 
Seattle 62 81 .434 25
Pat Mohan 74-77-151 Chicago 00 84 .417 271/2
Mike O'Connell 76-76-152 Jeff Guckert 76-76-152 NATIONAL LEAGUE Tony Dill 77-75-152 East Division David Regnier 75-78-153 w L Pet. GB 
CHEST Joe Bartosz 75-78-153 
Chicago 82 63 .566 Michael Kevin Regan 80-76-156 
St. Louis 77 01 .535 41/2 
Carter (T) Dave Law 77-79-156 New York 76 68 .528 5 1/2 Jim McCarthy 78-79-157 Montreal 76 00 .524 6 Jim Troutman 80-77-157 Pittsburgh 65 79 .451 161/2 Mike Pierre 77-81-158 Philadelphia S3 85 .410 22 1/2 
D.J. Romano 79-79-158 

West Division w L Pet. GB
Bobby Kloska 80-79-159 

San Francisco 83 61 .576
Paul Nolta 79-80-159 

San Diego 77 01 .535 6
Matt Baumgarth 81-78-159 

Houston 76 68 .528 7 
Chris Rule 77-82-159 

Cincinnati 70 74 .486 13 G.P. Schmidtke 79-81-160 
Los Angeles 68 76 .472 15 
Matt Heslin 80-80-160 Atlanta 56 00 .389 Z1 Sean Rohen 82-78-160 Joe Dimberio 80-80-160 Tuesday's Games Tuesday's Results 
Late Games Not Included 
Late Games Not Included
Loren Crosbie 79-81-160 

Cleveland 1 , Detroit 0 Chicago 2, Montreal 0 
Peter Bevacqua 79-82-161

RIGHT ARM Chicago 11, Baltimore 1 Philadelphia 2, New York 1 
<\dam North 79-82-161 

Minnesota 8, Toronto 2 
Denver Broncos ~hris Ohlmeye 80-81-161 Kansas Ciity 6, Texas 5 Houston at San Diego, (late) . :oger VonHaeffen 81-81-162 Milwaukee at Oakland, (late) 
John Elway (QB) Pittsburgh 5, St. Louis 2 
Cincinnati at Los Angeles, (late) WRIST 
MarkZoia 84-78-162 Boston at Seattle, (late) Atlanta at San Francisco, (late) Dan Marino (QB) New York at California, (late) 
Women's results Miami Dolphins Roberta Bryer 77-83-160 Wednesday's Games Wednesday's Games Milwaukee at Oakland Montreal at Chicago
Kathy Phares 79-82-161 HAND Boston at Seattle New York at Philadelphia
Liz Poden 83-87-170 Steve Largent (WR) Chicago at Baltimore Pittsburgh at St. Louis
Pandora Fecko 84-88-172 

Seattle Seahawks Detroit at Cleveland Atlanta at San Diego
Allison Wojnas 87-90-177 

Toronto at Minnesota Houston at Los Angeles Heidi Hanson 94-90-184 
Texas at Kansas City Cincinnati at San Francisco Kristin Kolesar 90-98-188 New York at California 

Support SMC Athletics 
Intramural Tennis Meeting at 4:00 today in Angela Thursday is the deadline for Intramural Outdoor Volleyball Tournament -going on all day Saturday on the Quad 
(Coming next week ... "Beaches") 


Wednesday, September 13, 1989 The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
7:00 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Lecture ­Representatives from Air Products & Chemicals. Mead Data Central, NASA Lewis Research Center. Engineering Placement Night. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Cajun Chicken Breast Ham & Broccoli Rblls Rotellini Brown Derby Sandwich 

Saint Mary's 
Florentine Omlette French Bread Pizza Veal Scallopina Deli Bar 

CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 24 Corn bread 25 Aweather's
1 Preparers of opposite
1040 data 26 Small struggle 
5 Deep sleeps 29 Take to the-­
1_0 Pornography (rip off) 14 Colo.'s Gary 33 Alias. for short 15 Naut1cal 34 Bikini is oned1rection 36 Station16 Overseas 37 Lose strength 
package for the needy 39 Make tracks 17 Pitcher 41 Prescription amount
18 Flora and fauna 42 Chem1cal
19 Fad compound20 Old-fashioned 44 Surcoat
thresh1ng method 
46 Wd on a French letterhead
22 Course requ1rement for 47 Fated future MD.'s 49 Midnight ra1der 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


51 Waste allowance 52 Traffic sign 53 Heaps of rocky debris 56"-Goes.
" 
1934 musical 60 Indigent 61 Scout group 63 Heaven on earth 64 The tops 65 Memorable 
portrayer of villains 66 French receipt 67 Tree denizen 68 Endings with maJor and din 69 Comics exclamations 
DOWN 
1 Beard or Child 2 Ratchet part 3 One kind of 

code 4 Denudes 13 --off (irate) 31 WW II riveter 53 Minor 5 Presidential 21 She gets what 32 Navigate 
disagreement advisers she wants 54 Hepburn role on
35 Double quartet Broadway

23 Peruse 55 ltalia's cap1tal 
6 Sound off 38 Well educated 
7 Electronic 25"-a 40 Old-fashioned 56 Corporeal
synthesizer summer's day" snapshots channel: Comb.
a Op or Pop 26 Recorded 43 To laugh, in 
form 9 Bread or rice 27 Russian edict Paris 
57 Brainstorm. in 
10 Filtered 28 Seasons 45 Old bird? Paris 11 Thank-you-­29 Cirrus or 48 Snuggle up 58 Smooch (bump in a road) cumulus 50 Area of influence 59 African antelopes 12 Egg on 30 Time period 52 Night_sound 62 Decay 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
11-\t>.i NO·GOOD, ROITrn ~OE ~ 1-\E WQt{'t Gl'lt. 1-\'( TR\JCK 
... T\.1~T '3:>0~05 Bf>.C.~ m ME . 1\.lt. Ofl.F 'fii\..L RtASONf:\'3\..E. I'RJB~BL'( 8R£r..K \1I TOO. 
u \ 
A 


WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 
"Sorry to bother you, Sylvia, but your Henry's over here ... and he's got my cat treed again." 
All of you out there who still want to be a part of campus entertainment the Student Union Board but have missed the first meetings, simply stop by our office any afternoon, (2nd floor Lafortune) 
momes 
publicity research 
muszc

special events relations performing arts 
servzces 




Sports
page 12 

Wednesday, September 13, 1989 
Irish lose Women's soccer battles Golden Gophers 
Ellis for fall semester 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame basket­
ball team's demanding early­
season schedule just got a 
whole lot tougher. 
Forward LaPhonso Ellis, who averaged 13.5 points and 9.4 rebounds per game last season, has been de­clared academically ineligible for the fall semester, the ath­letic department announced Tuesday. 
The Univp,rsity requires its athletes to earn a 2.0 semester grade-point aver­age in order to remain eligi­ble. 
Ellis' future eligibility will be determined by how he fares at Notre Dame over the next semester. 
"I expect to get the job done in the classroom, and I will be back on the court sometime in December," said Ellis. 
Fall semester exams end Dec. 21, and Ellis can not re­turn to action until semester grades are turned in and certified by the registrar's office. 
Before Dec. 21, the Irish have home games with San Francisco and UCLA and road tests with Indiana and Marquette. Notre Dame also faces Louisville Dec. 2 in the Big Four Classic at Indianapolis. 
Notre Dame has home games with Valparaiso on Dec. 21, Lafayette on Dec. 22 and Butler on Dec. 30. 
Ellis, a Parade high school aJI-American who directed East St. Louis (Ill.) Lincoln to back-to-back state titles, Jed the Irish in rebounding last season and was second to Joe Fredrick in scoring. He set a school season record with 53 blocked shots. 
The 6-foot-9 forward scored 27 points against St. Bonaventure in the first game of his collegiate ca­reer. No Irish player reached that total for the rest of the season. He also pulled down a season-high 18 rebounds in an 81-65 first-round NCM tournament victory. 


By COLLEEN HENNESSEY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will attempt to continue establishing a new tradition tonight as they face Minnesota at 5 p.m. at Krause Stadium. The Irish were unde­feated at home last year and, despite a slow start, are eon!i­dent that the Notre Dame mys­tique will serve them WPII again this year. 
"We've never played them be­fore, so we don't really know what to expeet," said senior eo­captain K.T. Sullivan of the home opener. "It is a big ad­vantage that we have never lost at home." 
Y!'t::"'"" ' Any advantages were unfor­
l~·:·~t~ tunately in absence for the Irish over the weekend wlwn the team dropped both games on a roadtrip to Wisconsin. A 2-1 loss to Wisconsin­Milwaukee came before an ill­fated meeting with 3rd-ranked Wisconsin-Madison on Saturday. "They were absolutely incred­ible," said Irish head coach Dennis Grace. "They had three 
goals in about the lirst 15 min­
utes." 
Although Madison ended up shutting out Notre Dame 6-0, Graee felt good about the game and the trip. 
"It was a growing, maturing weekend," he said. "The Madison game was decided early, but we kept working. We did everything we could have done against that team that was stronger tactically and technically better than us. llopnfully we can mmedy our faults and start applying what we've learned to thP future games." 
Grace will be relying on the leadership of Sullivan and the other eo-captain .Joy Sisolak. to mentor this very young and in­experienced team that counts five freshmen and three sophomorns as starters. 
"This w1~ekend was our first overnight trip. 1\ lot of fresh­men are starting and they were nervous." said Sullivan. who al­nmdy has two goals on the sea­son. "The charaeter of the team is decidedly diiT1~rent this year 
see IRISH I page 1 0 

Pendergast , Irish face rematch with Detroit 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
One week ago, freshman for­ward Kevin Pendergast led the Notre Dame Men's Soccer team to a 4-3 overtime victory in the Motor City against MCC rival Detroit. Pendergast's goal ten minutes into OT gave the Irish their first win of the season. 
Tonight, however, the Irish must do it all over again when they face Detroit for the second time in one week at Krause Stadium at 7:30. Nobody ever said collegiate soccer was easy, least of all Kevin Pendergast. 
"The players in college are much stronger and faster than they were in high school," ad­mits Pendergast, "And as a freshman I haven't had the op­portunity to get on a serious weight program. As a result, I'm physically inferior to a lot of the players out there." 
Pendergast has performed superbly, however, despite his lack of strength. In the Indiana Classic in Bloomington where the Irish bowed to Virginia and St. Louis, Pendergast made the All-Tournament team along with teammate Paul LaVigne. 
Then in Detroit he pounced on the rebound of a shot by teammate Mitch Kern and poked home the first goal of his collegiate career. Kevin took the goal pretty much in stride, though. 

Kevin Pendergast 
"Our team had the run of play in overtime, and I knew some­body was going to get the goal sooner or later. I just happened to be there for the rebound of Mitch's shot outside the box. The ball was just sitting there for me-it was a perfect set­up." 

While Pendergast has been brilliant at times for the Irish, he knows that he has a Jot of potential for improvement. "I have to learn all of the players around me because they've been playing together for a few years and I'm just starting out here." 
Irish coach Dennis Grace is delighted with Pendergast's progress to date. "He has a lot of composure for a freshman," says Grace, "He's very gifted athletically and gifted in his willingness to train to do well." 
"Kevin goes as hard in prac­tice as he does in a game against Indiana or St. Louis. We're extremely happy to have him here at Notre Dame. lie has a great four years ahead of him." 
Of tomorrow night's game against Detroit, Grace says, "I think our kids are very hungry for Detroit. This is a very im­portant game as far as our season goes. We have to prove that we are not only better than they are, but significantly bet­ter." 
"I wasn't happy with the way we played last time against them, but I was certainly happy that when the kids put them­selves in a hole, they were able to dig themselves out." 
TIIHOW INS: Tonight's game will be broadcast live from Krause Stadium by SportsChannel America. The Irish also appeared on SportsChannel on September 8th in a tape delayed telecast of their 2-0 September 2nd Joss to St. Louis ... The Detroit Titans return live of last year's top six seorers, including juniors Pete Tangalos (22 points) and Chris Bologna (21 points). Goalie Don Koontz will anchor the de­fense .... Since adopting Krause Stadium as their home field in 198 7, the Irish are perfect on home turf, with a record of 18­0-0 .... The Irish have a perfect 5-0 record against Detroit in the three years since the Titans established a soccer program. 
Bo knows...Michigan natives chose ND instead 
When playing sandlot football as a kid, Detroit native Rodney Culver pretended to be University of Michigan star tailback Butch Woolfolk. 
When he entered high school, his allegiances changed to the green and white of Michigan State, where he admired the running style of Lorenzo White. 
Culver returns to the state of Michigan this week­end, but he'll be on the visitors sideline. Scott Kowalkowski and Todd Lyght join him as players who grew up near Michigan Stadium who decided to come to Notre Dame. 
That doesn't mean they never considered wearing the maize and blue. 
"I was very much interested up until the week be­fore the signing date, and I kind of decided to come here (Notre Dame)," said the sophomore Irish tail­back. "I went up there on visits with friends, and I wasn't very comfortable up there. I decided I'd like to be away from home." 
Culver, who eventually selected Notre Dame over UCLA, did have a discussion with veteran Michigan coach Bo Schembechler. 
"I think I remember him talking about the size of my hands," said Culver. "He was saying how big they were and how they'd help me be able to handle 

Steve Megargee 
Irish Items 

the football, then he got down to academics." Schembechler had a sterner conversation with Lyght, a cornerback from Flint. 
"He's a very forward recruiter; he just lays it on the line," said Lyght, who already has two inter­ceptions this season. "I remember him talking to me one night over the phone. It was early January, and he said, 'I expect you to commit to me next Monday,' and I hadn't finished all my visits." 
"I explained to him that I was going to take my time with it, and I didn't want to rush into anything, and I assured him that he was still in the running." 
Notre Dame and Michigan were Lyght's final two choices. 
"When I visited Michigan, I really enjoyed it, and Bo Schembechler's a great coach, but when it came down to it, I wanted to play for Lou Holtz." he said. 
Kowalkowski, who grew up in Farmington Hills, 
just a half-hour away from Michigan Stadium, will 
see a familiar face working with the opposition 
Saturday. 

"The guy who's the linebackers coach at Michigan 
now -Jim Herman -coached me in high school, so I 
got quite a mouthful of Michigan," said the junior 
defensive end. "He was always talking about them, 
talking to Bo and other things. 
"Then, my junior year, he went over to Michigan 
as a coach, and naturally he came back for the 
games, so I was around it quite a bit." 
Kowalkowski, a Michigan fan who attended many Wolverine games his first two years in high school, managed to resist all that talk and decided not to make a recruiting visit. 
"I envisioned myself playing at Michigan, but that was earlier in my high school career, and as it went on I really didn't think about it that much," he said. 
All three of these Michigan residents will have family and friends back home watching them Saturday. but only Culver has acquaintances playing for the Wolverines. 
"I saw one of them over the summer, and he didn't make any predictions,'' said Culver. "But he gave me a stern look and said that he'd see me on the 16th." 








