
j· 

VOL. XXII, NO.114 FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1989 · ' THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Group led by Ueberroth agrees to buy Eastern 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-A group led by former baseball commissioner Peter Ueberroth agreed to buy Eastern Airlines for about $463.9 million in a deal that would give the strike-crippled carrier's employees a major share of the company, the par­ties announced today. 
The deal, subject to approval by Eastern creditors and the 
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, fol­lowed lengthy negotiations with Eastern's parent, Texas Air Corp. 
Texas Air Chairman Frank Lorenzo told a news conference the agreement includes about $200 million in cash and the rest in securities. 
"Under this agreement Eas­tern can be back flying in very short order," Lorenzo said. 
Miami-based Eastern has been virtually paralyzed since March 4 by a Machinists union strike that has drawn the sup­port of pilots and flight atten­dants. Eastern filed for reor­ganization and protection from creditors in U.S. bankruptcy court in New York on March 9 as its cash dried up. 
Lorenzo said that if the uni­ons agreed to the deal the na­tion's seventh-largest airline could resume flying within 24 hours. He also said the airline intended to file a reorganiza­tion plan that would pay creditors 100 percent. 
Ueberroth, who flew to New York late Tuesday night from his California home, began per­sonal negotiations wun Lorenzo early Wednesday mor­ning and continued them until about 8 p.m., resuming talks early today. 
Ueberroth's group made a $464 million offer for Eastern last week and then withdrew the bi<i after being told by Texas Air that it had been 
see EASTERN I p'age 7 


'Christmas in April' this Saturday 
By BRADLEY GALKO Staff Reporter 
An estimated 2,500 stu­dents, faculty members, ad­ministration officials, and community volunteers will take to the streets of the Northeast Neighborhood Saturday in South Bend's first "Christmas in April." 
The event is a one-day work session in which volun­teers will help renovate 43 homes in the neighborhood with nearly $250,000 worth of house repairs and cleaning. 
"The purpose of the pro­gram is to help those people who cannot help them­selves," said Assistant Director of Residence Life Patrick Doran, who is the volunteer coordinator of the project. 
"We fix up the houses of 

low-income, handicapped, 
single-family, and simply 
needy homeowners in the 
city of South Bend,'' he said, 
". . . making the homes of 
these needy people a safer 
and warmer place to live." 
Doran said there will be 

two types of work being done · 
on Saturday: renovation of 
homes and the clean-up of 
the neighborhood through 
block clean-up teams. 
This will include such 

tasks as roofing, painting, 
electrical work, plumbing, 
insulating, raking and trim­
ming, he said. 
Local construction trades­men and rental property maintenance managers will provide the skilled services necessary to compl~te or su­pervise the needed home re­pairs, according. to a 
.vamphlet put out by the Christmas in April organiza­tion. 
"We asked studehts if they had any particular skills that could be used/' said Doran, "(and) we tried to tap those skills." He added, ''On all teams there will be a broad spectrum of workers," including stu­dents, faculty, and South Bend workers. The pamphlet also stated, "All repairs are paid for by Christmas in April through fund raisers or through the donation of materials by local businesses. All labor is provided by volunteers." 
Various churches, com­munity organizations, and service groups referred houses to Christmas in April's house selection com-
see APRIL I page 6 

North testifies, says he just followed orders 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Oliver North firmly defended his Iran­Contra role Thursday from the witness stand at his criminal trial, declaring he was merely a Marine following White House orders. "I was not step­ping in, I was brought in," he said. 
North was stopped before he could respond to his lawyer's suggestion that then-President Reagan had designated him for the role. Asked directly who told him to secretly help the Nicaraguan rebels, North named former National Secur­ity Adviser Robert McFarlane, McFarlane's then-deputy, John Poindexter, and the late CIA director William Casey. 
North's testimony came shortly after his lawyers read the jury a lengthy statement-­agreed to by prosecutors--that said George Bush had played a role as intermediary in Reagan's secret effort to aid the Nicaraguan rebels after Congress banned official U.S. help. 
.As rapid-fire developments replaced the sometimes­languid pace of the trial, now in in its seventh week, the jury heard that Bush personally told the president of Honduras in 1985 that extra aid was being funneled to his country. In ear­lier testimony, McFarlane had said that the aid was part of a secret agreement calling for Honduras to help the Contras. 
At the White House, press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said, ''We can't say anything. It would become a part of the case." 
. see NORTH/ page 8 


Abortion Legislation 
The 15 states that still have anti-abortion laws 
made ineffectual by the Supreme Court's 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision 
States wlth anti-abortion laws pre--dating 1973 ~''" States with anti-abortion laws enacted after 1973 

•


Pro-choice dem-onstration 1n D.C. 
Weekend rally may be largest ever 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-With the Bush administration pushing the Supreme Court to overturn its landmark abortion decision, abortion rights advocates are converging on the nation's cap­ital this weekend for what they expect will be their largest demonstration. 
They believe the stakes are higher than any time since the court's 1973 decision legalizing abortion and they are deter­mined to pick up the gauntlet Bush has thrown down. 
"We have been silent far too long," said Kate Michelman, executive director of the Na­tional Abortion Rights Action League. 
Tens of thousands of students from 500 college campuses are coming, mothers are bringing their daughters and granddaughters, a delegation from Capitol Hill will be there and dozens of celebrities are flying in from Hollywood for the Sunday march, organizers say. . 
The goal is to make the weekend a turning point in the national abortion debate. Or­ganizers feel that anti-abortion advocates have so far carried the day by focusing the ques­tion on when life begins. In­stead, they feel the issue is whether the government should intervene in what they believe should be a private decision. 
"Nobody likes abortion. It's a difficult choice and there are a lot of issues that women have to weigh when faced with a crisis pregnancy,'' Michelman said. "Women don't have abor­tions they want, they have abortions they need,'' she said. 
Organizers are reluctant to predict how many will turn out for the demonstration, but they expect the number will be far larger than the 90,000 who gath­ered for a March 1986 pro­abortion rally in Washington. 
At least one anti-abortion group plans to mount a coun­terdemonstration of up to 300 people on the day of the march. 
The engine revving the weekend's events is the Su­preme Court and its pending decision on a Missouri case that could reverse or severely limit the high court's 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision that legalized 
see RALLY/ page 8 


page 2 The Observer Friday, April 7, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 

Syrian and Christian gunners du~led with m.ortars and rockets across Beirut on Thursday, shattermg a short-hved cease­fire and forcing panicked civilians back to basements and bunkers. Gen. Michel Aoun's Christian army claimed its troops held their fire. Police said 15 people were wounded, bringing the toll to 177 people killed and 591 wounded since March 8, when Christian troops clashed with an alliance of Syrian army and Druse militia forces. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

President Bush extended economic sanctions against Panama for one year on Thursday, calling the government of military leader Manuel Antonio Noriega "corrupt, repressive and inept." In an executive order, Bush said that the "actions and policies of the (Noriega) regime in Panama continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States." Sanctions put in place by the Reagan administration were to expire on Saturday. Bush notified Congress he was retaining them for an additional year. However, the sanctions could be modified depending on the out­come of Panama's May 7 presidential election. 
STATE BRIEFS 

The distribution of Bibles in Anderson Community Schools Corp. classrooms has been suspended after a parent complained that the practice allowed schools to endorse one religion over others. "I'm just telling them Bibles have no place in a public school system, in my opinion," said Jane Corbin, the parent of a fifth-grader at forest Hill~ Elementary School. School attorney David Gotshall said the longtime practice will be discontinued at least until the Anderson School Board votes on a policy dealing with the distribution of such materials in schools. The red-leather, pocket-size New Testament Bibles traditionally have been dis­tributed by Gideons in the fall. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 

Millard Sheets, the artist who designed the 10-story granite mural on the facade of the University of Notre Dame's Hesburgh Library, passed away on March 31. He was 81 and died at his home in Gualala, California. The mural was covered during its six-week installation and was unveiled when the library was dedicated on May 7, 1964. Mr. Sheets received an honorary doctor of laws that year from Notre Dame. 
The University of Notre Dame band facility now under construction on the east side of campus will be named the John 
W. Koons, ·Jr. Rehearsal Hall. In addition to the 226 members of the Marching Band, the Koons Rehearsal Hall will be home to the 60-member Concert Band, three smaller varsity bands, two jazz bands and woodwind, brass and other ensemble bands. Scheduled for completion in a year, the building will also contain storage areas, a sheet music library and offices. 
John Koons is a 1965 alumnus of Notre Dame who owns several car dealerships in the McLean, Virginia area, where he and his wife live. He is the president of JKJ Chevrolet in Vienna, Virginia, and his previous benefactions to the University include support for the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. A daughter, Kara, is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. 
WEATHER 


Christmas in April 
Partly cloudy and cool today, high in the upper 40s. Cloudy and cold tonight with a 50 percent chance of snow, low in the 30s. Cloudy and cold again _to­morrow with a 40 percent of sno~, high in the 40s. 
ALMANAC 

On April 7: e In 1862: Union forces led by Gen. Ulysses Grant defeated the Con­
federates at the Battle of Shiloh in Tennessee. e In 1927: An audience in New York saw an image of Commerce Sec­
retary Herbert Hoover in the first suc­cessful long-distance demonstration of television. 
e In 1966: The U. S. recovered a 
hydrogen bomb it had lost off the cost of Spain. e In 1980: The U.S. announced it was breaking off diplomatic rela­
tions with Iran in the wake of the hostage crisis. e Ten years ago: Amir Abbas Hoveida, prime minister of Iran from 
~1965 to 1977, was executed by firing squad in Tehran immediately after he was convicted by an Islamic revolu­tionary court of "crimes against the nation." 
DOW JONES 
Closings for Thursday, April 6, 1989 
Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 
·12.83 
Closed at 2291.97 
Currency exchange 
Mark {ta.0035 to 1.8730 OM I$ 
Yen {} 0.72 to 1J2.28 ¥I$ 
Precious Metals Gold '(/ $.70 to $389.30 1oz. Silver~ 1.2¢ to $5.85 I oz. 

Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 





Gender-neutral· pronouns problematic 

Have you ever been criticized for using the dirty little word, m-a-n? It's a harmless enough word, yet one of the most widely employed in our language. Many members of the en­lightened intelligentsia, numerous female pro­fessors, and quite a few well-intentioned stu­dents would rather you didn't use it anymore; unless of course you are referring exclusively to the male gender. 
For hundreds of years words such as 'man' and 'mankind' have been spoken, written, and most significantly, understood to mean the human species collectively. If the phrase, ''All men are created equal and are endowed by the Creator with certain unalienable rights... , " is only meant to signify the male sex, then it is truly astonishing that our judicial system has manifested such unwarranted audacity in securing equality for members of the female population. 
My Core professor, an otherwise amiable and judicious woman, was particularly adamant about the use of gender-neutral language. Last year our class received weekly lectures, and many humbling comments in red ink, about the necessity and moral rectitude of expurgating every male oriented term from our working vocabularies. 
Being of a more traditional and stubborn per­suasion, I continued to sneak 'man', 'mankind', and the personal pronoun, 'him' into my written efforts at every opportunity. 
My reasons for doing so were fourfold. 

First of all, the aforementioned words are staples of the English language and sound more natural to the reader. It pleased neither my eyes nor my writing style to say, "peoplekind are rational animals." 
In addition, I had read the word, 1'man" when both sexes are being written about, my entire literate life. I was quite hostile to the notion of making a radical change in the way I write in order to keep up with what is currently in vogue~ 
Furthermore, as a woman I was disgruntled by another of my sex telling me what I should be offended by. I resented the implicit feminist agenda underlying this proposal to replace uni­versally accepted words with those that "make no explicit reference to gender.'' 
Finally, I became carried away and began pondering the wickedness of having to call God "Her", or even worse, "It!" Frankly, the whole idea was quite unnerving. 
Recently, however, I discussed this issue with a male classmate from last year's Core class and felt challenged by the force of his argu-
OF INTEREST 
Christmas in April volunteers should report to the AlumnVSenior Club headquarters at 7: 30 Saturday morning with their housing assign­ments. Please be on time. 
The Theology Department announced the addition in the summer session of a second course at the level of second theology require­ment, THEO 260--Christian Ethics, with Leslie Griffin, 9:10-10:10 a.m., M-F. For more infor­mation on this and other summer courses, con­tact the Theology Department office at 239-7811. 
Logan Center Volunteers needed to help set up booths for Saturday's Carnival Recrea­tion. Pick-ups tonight will be at 6:45 p.m. at Holy Cross, Saint Mary's and 7 p.m. at the Main Circle, Notre Dame, Saturday morning at 8:30 
a.m. at St. Mary's and8:45 a.m. at Notre Dame. Questions call Karen at 4950 or Jim at 3795. 
'It pleased neither my eyes nor my writing style to say, "peoplekind are rational animals." ' 
Missy Irving Accent Copy Editor 
ments regarding gender-neutral language. He was in favor of employing these words in writ­ten works for two reasons. "In writing," he said, "you subconsciously reveal a part of your own personal philosophy.'' 
He felt that perhaps some past sexism had arisen from a pervasive use of singuarly male terms. Most of us probably do think "man" when we actually mean both men and women. We should rework our writing patterns to allign with our ideal thinking patterns. 
So, who is right? A mutual friend of ours ex­pressed his dissatisfaction with both argu­ments, claiming that the ideological reasons most heatedly backing the issue are not suffi­cient to warrant a change. 
He did mention, however, that he has read of proposals to rewrite certain texts in the name of heightening awareness -and promoting the 
practice  of  universal  language,  which  is  
frightening to  many.  
Although  I  resent people  who  vigilantly  

search for chauvanism under every rug, I would be ashamed if I ever unintentionally offended someone by my choice of pronouns. Finally, perhaps I must begrudgingly grant that we should all be much more conscious of the way in which our writing will be interpreted, both now and in the future. 
In a generation's time, phrases such as "peoplekind" could very well as common as "man" is today. And we will be applauded as the clearthinking revolutionaries who once and for all brought fairness and equality to the writ­ten word. But I draw the line at rewriting the Bible. 
Missy Irving is a junior majoring in Classical Studies and Philosophy. She currently serves as an Accent copy editor for The Observer. The views expressed in this column reflect only those of the author and are not necessarily the opinions of either The Observer or the Univer­sity. 
A Student Organ Recital featuring Joseph Vitacco performing works of Bach and Vierne will be given at 8 p.m. Sunday at Sacred Heart Church. 
Applications for HPC Secretary and Off­Campus Commissioner are available from the Student Government Secretary's desk, Second Floor LaFortune. Questions call Kerstin or Karen at 4220 or Lala at 1242. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. -The Observer 
Design Editor........................... Chris Labaree Design Assistant.................... Beth Peterson

=Ihe=Obset:Ver-__.-_ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 
Typesetters ............................ Molly Schwartz ............................................ Dan Towers News Editor .•.....•...•••.••.•...........• T1m O'Keefe Copy Editor................................. John Obrien Sports Copy Editor .................... Pete Gagen . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . ................................... Bob Mitchell VIewpoint Copy Editor ......•.. Janice O'Leary Viewpoint Layout .......•..•..•.•. Tricia Grohman Etc. Editor .............................. Colleen Cromn Etc. Copy Editors....................... Mike Resile ................... MISSy Irving Etc. Designer ............. ......... ......... .. Tim lrv1ne Etc. Design Assistant-·-··········· Brian Grunert Typists ........................................ Rosi Lozada ..............................Sue Barton NO Day Editor.......•...•.•.....•...... Betsy Mennell SMC Day Editor············-·····..·• Alissa Murphy Ads Designers ..................... Shannon Roach . . ................ Kerry Clair .......... Todd Figura 

t 
Friday, April 7, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Engineering Week provides recreation 
By MARIA MILANO cialize with each other" said News Staff Healey. The Joint Engineering Coun­Engineering Week, a week of cil (JEC) consists of two mem­social events for the College of bers from each engineering so­Engineering, will take place ciety. It forms a link between April 10-15. Activities planned the societies. range from a treasure hunt to The JEC sponsors two main a calculator toss. events, Engineering Day in the "College of Engineering can fall and Engineering Week in be fun too" claims Jacqueline the spring. Each provide a 
Healey, president of the Joint chance for the College of Engineering Council. "This Engineering to get together as week allows the engineers to a whole, said Healey. 
have fun and act crazy,"she ''This week shows that en­said. gineers have another side 
Engineering Week has been rather than just being geeks," an annual tradition for seven said junior Tim Sutton, a Me­years. The two Chairmen of the chanical Engineering major. event this year are Kathryn "We get to use our cal­Pirrotta and Mike Statzer. culators for something other 
Prior to the week, engineer­than number crunching," said ing students receive "The Offi­senior Engineering student cial Guide to Engineer's Pete Paraskos. Week." This booklet explains "It's a good time for all the all the events to be held. "The different branches of the Col­two most popular events are lege of Engineering to get to­the Pine Wood Derby and The gether,'' said Mechanical Calculator Toss" said Healey. Engineering major Connie 

Gorbachev, Thatcher cover 
Cash prizes are awarded for Boyden. many of the events. "It is important for the en­"Engineers appreciate gineers to gather and so­

many. issues in discussion 
having an opportunity to so-cialize,'' claims Healey. Associated Press Emerging from her 10 of eliminating all nuclear Downing St. residence into weapons from Europe.
Botha will step down 
LONDON-Soviet Presi­the icy rain, with Gorbachev Thatcher believes the deter­dent Mikhail Gorbachev and at her side, Thatcher told rence of nuclear weapons 
Prime Minister Margaret reporters: prevents war and Thatcher today argued pas­"The talks have been very "expressed her objection to ssociated Press the National Party on Feb. 2. 

after Sept. elections 
sionately during a four-hour deep, very wide ranging and any suggestion" of scrap­Many Nationalists view de 
meeting that covered sub-very friendly, and as always ping short-range nuclear JOHANNESBURG, South Klerk as more flexible than 
. jects tanging from disarma­we got to grips with the real weapons, the spokesman Africa-President P.W. Botha, Botha and more capable of 
ment to reports of Soviet issues." said. South Africa's strong-willed breaking the country's black­
bomber sales to Libya, The spokesman said Britain is the first NATO leader since 1978, on Thursday white political stalemate. 
officials said. Thatcher asked Gorbachev country Gorbachev has announced his intention to 
Reopening a European about a report from Wash­visited since the earthquake retire after elections to be held The state-controlled South 
peace offensive that was dis­ington that Moscow sold up cut short his U.S. tour in by September. African Broadcasting Corp., in 
rupted by the Armenian to 15 long-range fighter­December and forced him to His party had made clear it a commentary to be broadcast 
earthquake, Gorbachev had bombers to Libya, which reschedule a trip to Britain. wanted a new president. Friday, said Botha "made it 
"extremely frank ex­Britain accuses of sponsor­Arriving at Thatcher's Botha, whose grip on power clear he did not intend to stand 
changes, animated, warm, ing terrorism. Gorbachev residence, he waved and began to loosen after a stroke for another term.'' 
passionate and solemn,'' did not respond, he said. smiled to onlookers and was in January, told Parliament 
said a Thatcher spokesman, He said Thatcher also ac­applauded by office staff that an early general election Botha "now enters the last 
· requesting anonymity. cused the Soviets of having who lined the corridors. will be held on an unspecified months of a political career 
Gorbachev also hit the been "not as frank as they Thatcher said the talks date within the next five that has spanned more than a 
streets of London, stopping should be'' about their were "an example of the months. half-century," the commen­
his motorcade to shake chemical weapons arsenal. new spirit of friendliness 
Botha, 73, did not state ex­tary said. hands with about 20 people He quoted Gorbachev as and negotiation and plicitly that he would retire, but in a crowd of several replying: ''if you aren't fully cooperation between East he said the outgoing president He has presided over the hundred who cheered him satisfied, then quite clearly and West." would hand over the official country's worst racial unrest outside Westminster Abbey. we have to have more ex­Gorbachev· thanked the seal to a new president follow­and deepest international iso­The Thatcher spokesman changes. We have got to try British people "for reaching ing the elections. lation but also its most am­said the Soviet leader and better to convince each out to the people of Armenia 
The new president is ex­bitious race reforms and the staunchly anti­other.'' and to the people of the So­pected to be Education Mini­foreign policy initiatives, in­communist prime minister Another area of disagree­viet Union" in the ster F.W. de Klerk, who cluding plans for the indepen­"love arguing." ment was Gorbachev's goal earthquake relief effort. succeeded Botha as leader of dence of Namibia. 
perience. The CSC was one ofClarification a group of University sponsors 
The article on Martin Sheen's of Sheen's lecture. It is Sheen's lecture which appeared in the policy to request a donation to April 5 edition of The Observer a designated charity in lieu of
Congratufations 

referes to a donation of $3,000 accepting a personal stipend by the Center for Social Con­for outside speaking engage­

ant! 

cerns to the Nevada Desert Ex-ments. 
'Best lJVislies 

Sarafi !J-{amiCton ant£ 


Jolin Magi{{ 

On your wecU!ing ~pril 8, 1989 Sacrea!Heart Cfiurcfi, ?{ptre 'Dame 
%e Observer Staff 


page 4 The Observer Friday, April 7, 1989 

7-year ban on Solidarity to be lifted immediately 
Associated Press Aleksander Kwasniewski, a Walesa, looking relaxed at a the technical possibility to or­union plans to form an organiz­chief negotiator for the com­news conference after a gruel­ganize as soon as possible," ing committee as early as this ­
WARSAW, Poland-A govern­munist government in two ing week of negotiations, out­Walesa said. weekend to apply for formal ment minister said Thursday months of talks with the oppo­lined the tasks his independent registration by submitting a the seven-year ban on sition that concluded Wednes­trade union faces. But he ThP ~greement allows new union charter in court, said Solidarity would be lifted im­day in a broad accord. warned that the agreement Solidarity to organize on a na­top Solidarity adviser Tadeusz mediately, and Lech Wales a Kwasniewski said the Sejm, could lead to disaster if Poland tional, regional and local level Mazowiecki. urged supporters to put their or parliament, would meet failed to take advantage of the after parliament makes the "political victory" into action Friday to enact the agreements changes. necessary changes in the labor "Today we as Poland have a by organizing nationwide. on trade union freedoms, eco­"The most important task for law to permit more than one great victory, but a political 
"The process of legalization nomic reforms and political today is to write applications legal trade umon at a victory, a theoretical one which of Solidarity should be com­changes, including creation of immediately all over the workplace. may turn out to be a victory or pleted between April 15 and the first freely elected legisla­country to provincial gover­a disaster if we are not able to April 20,'' said Sports Minister tive body in the East bloc. nors and city mayors so we get On the national level, the make use of it,'' Walesa said. 

New York City $99 roundtrip 

~ 
f 
( 
( 
I 
J RJrt Lauderdale 
$99 roundtrip 

! 1 
I 
es. 

Seattle Phoenix $99 roundtrrp $99 roundtrzp 
LosAngeles 

$99 roundtrip 

{ 
'-· Aspecial offer for students, 
f 





only for Atilerican Express®Cardmembers. 
If you want to go places, it's time for the Americant Express® Card. t Because now you can take advantage of new travel ( f privileges on Northwest Airlines onlyforfull-time 
students who carry the American Express Card
( 
Travel privileges that offer:
} 
®~ 7Wo -$99 roundtrip iickets-fly to many of ( ( NORTI-IWEST the more than 180 cities served by North­{ AIRLINES west in the contiguous 48 United States. 
LOOK TO us Only one ticket may be used per six­
:f month period.,} Special(}uarterlyNorthu.x!st Destination Discounts .( throughout1989-up to 25% offmost available fares. 
5,000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORLDPERKS® free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets you a free roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies 
.· in the contiguous 48 United States or Canada-upon 

Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX 
*Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are non-refundable and no itinerary changes may be 
n:t~ after purchase. Seats a~ this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must be completed by certificate expiration date and may not be available between RELATED Cities _to wh1ch North~t does not have direct connections or routings. City fuel tax surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). 18 SERVICES Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. Current student Cardmembers automatically receive two $99 vouchers in the 
An-.c..E_."""-Y 
mail.© 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
t 
Friday, April 7, 1989 The Observer page 5 
PR man speaks on Wall Street troubles 
By DESIREE DE LISLE 
News Staff 
Robert Marquis '66, spoke on his personal experiences as a public relations executive during the stock market crash of 1987 and and insider trading scandal. 
Marquis, a Notre Dame alumnus, was the Director of Communications at Kidder, Peabody's headquarters on Wall Street for two years before opening his own !JUblic relations firm. 
The lecture focused on how the insider trading scandal and the Stock Market Crash of '87 harmed the image of Kidder, Peabody, "one of the oldest in­vestment banks in the country.'' 
When Ivan Boesky was in­dicted, he named Marty Siegel as one of his accomplices. "From the perspective of this PR man," said Marquis, "Siegel was absolutely the worst possible choice." With the naming of Siegel, a leading executive at Kidder, the com­pany was plunged "hip deep in the insider trading scandal." 
As the Director of Communi­cations, Marquis assumed the task of controlling the damage to the firm by the insider trading allegations. 
Although the scandal 
damaged the reputation of Kid­
der, Marquis was able to put 
the scandal behind the firm. He 
and his department were even 
planning for the "great com­
eback year in 1988." 
The stock market crash of oc­tober 19, 1987 put a stop to the "great comeback." Once again Marquis and his department "were involved mainly in damage control'' as they tried to answer the· phone calls from the press. 
"Wall Street has not recovered from the crash. The investors left the market and have not yet returned. After the crash, the story for Kidder and most other firms on the Street became not one of growth but of downsizing, as first hundreds and then thousands of people were laid off,"said Mar­quis. 
Marquis lectured in the Montgomery Room in LaFor­tune Student Center Thursday night. The lecture was spon­sored by the Student-Alumni Relations Group. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President Bush gave qualified support Thursday to Israeli Prime Min­ister Yitzhak Shamir's idea for elections among Palestinian Arabs on the West Bank and Gaza. The president empha­sized that Israel eventually must give up the occupied lands. 
Bush said he told Shamir "we do not support an independent Palestinian state, nor Israeli sovereignty over or permanent occupation of the West Bank and Gaza," which Israel won in the 1967 Six-Day War. 
By mentioning Israeli "sovereignty," Bush went a step beyond his statement Mon­day that Israel must end the "occupation" of the seized ter­ritory. 
Bush, standing alongside Shamir and reporting on their talks, said he was confident an "acceptable formula" could be produced for holding elections in the West Bank and Gaza. 

ATTENTION: Grad Students, Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 


Offers 
* 
Pool, Clubhouse * locked intercom entrances 

* 
Washer & dryer in each apartment * flexible leases ~ 


( also -furnished executive suites ) 1-::.J call for details -277-3731 ~~s~ 



Bush supports Shamir plan for West Bank elections 
Fiery clash 

Civilians block the streets near the presidential palace with burning tires Wednesday in Port-au-· Prince, Haiti to show support for dissident soldiers calling for the ouster of Haitian leader Lt. Gen. 
~~presents
ND!SMC ID Required '(f~ 


CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING 
Come see the campus band that everyone is raving about! They've taken 2nd place in the Nazz band competition for the past two years What makes them so great? Come see for yourself!Saturday Nite at 10:00 PM 
AP Photo 

Prosper Avril. The government declared a state of emergency, put troops on maximum alert and censored the news media after the second mutiny since Sunday. 
Shamir's election proposal is the centerpiece of his govern­ment's effort to resolve the con­flict in the West Bank and Gaza, torn by more than 15 months of Palestinian revolt. 
The election would deter­mine the makeup of a Palestin­ian delegation to negotiate with Israel for ''an interim period of self-governing administra­tion," Shamir said. That would be followed by negotiations for "a permanent agreement," he said. 
Shamir's proposal is re­garded as a potential opening rather than any breakthrough in the long search for Middle East peace. 
"We're engaged in a step-by­step process. This is a begin­ning of a process," said a senior U.S. official, briefing reporters on condition of anonymity. 
After Winding up their formal talks at the White House, Bush and Shamir met two hours later to visit the Air and Space Museum, the capital's most popular tourist attraction. Bush and Shamir joined with the crowds to view exhibits and to watch the film, "To Fly," a colorful account of aviation his­tory. 
On Monday, Bush had taken visiting Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak to a baseball game. 
The administration empha­sized that Shamir's election proposal is far from any final form. "Everybody recognizes that more needs to be done in order to develop those prin­ciples and put more meat on the bones," said the senior U.S. official. 
Shamir said Israel would need the cooperation of the Palestinians in devising the electoral process. 
''In order to launch a political negotiating process, we pro­pose free democratic elections, free from an atmosphere of PLO violence, terror and in­timidation, among the Pales­tinian Arabs of Judea, Samaria and Gaza," Shamir said, using the Hebrew references to the territories. 
Bush, speaking first, said, "The United States believes elections in the territories can be designed to contribute to a political process of dialogue and negotiations." 
Co~ing: Apartheid Awareness ¥eet-­Apr 10th thiu Apr 13th 
Torture: According to Amnesty 
International ,.all evidence indi­cates that torture is extensively inflicted on political detainees, and that the Government sanctions its use. .. Detainees are kept: for long period~ in 5olitary confine­ment. Direct torture includes beat­ings, breaking of teeth with pliers, electric shock to qenitals and other sensitive parts of the body, sleep 


page 6 The Observer Friday, April 7, 1989 

Schorr speaks on social programs 

By SARAH VOIGT Staff Reporter 

Lizbeth Schorr, a lecturer in social medicine at Harvard medical school, cited reasons for the ineffectiveness of pre­
I vious social programs and sug­
I ~ gested ways to improve the lives of "the unskilled and the unschooled" in a lecture yes­
i terday. Schorr began her research in order to counteract the pervad­
t 
ing sense of despair and frustration that gripped many
~. 
social workers and education reformers in the Reagan era, she said. 
"The view that nothing works in the world of social pro­grams would never have
l 
gained such a firm foothold if
~ 
l 
.'.· there had been a greater un­derstanding of the vul­nerability of the unskilled and the unschooled in the economi­cal and technological changes of the last two decades,'' 
Captain's bail reduced in oil spill case 
Associated Press 
VALDEZ, Alaska-Angry state officials asked the Coast Guard to take the helm of the 
.. cleanup of the nation's worst oil spill, and a New York judge today reduced the $1 million bail set for the captain of the

Sophomore Bill Nies can only fantasize he's prowling the links at 
Exxon Valdez. Capt. Joseph Hazelwood's

Augusta National as he practices putting at Burke Memorial Golf Course 
on Thursday. A green jacket is probabaly not in the near future for Bill. 


April 
continued from page 1 
-mittee, said Doran. 
After reviewing the applica­tions, a housing inspector from the neighborhood housing ser­vice or the city of South Bend "visited the home to make sure there was sufficient work that we could do," he added. 
He noted income level, fam­ily status, and whether the ap­plicant actually owned the home as primary selection criteria. 
"We have adopted April. ..because we realize the bulk of the volunteers will be students," said Doran. He said this gave the organizers of the project adequate time to com­municate with the students about the project; time that might otherwise not be avail­able in the fall. 
He also said April "is the best time of the year to line up the skilled workers we need to do the work," noting that con­struction is slow in early April. 
Student response to the pro­gram "far exceeded expecta­tions," said Doran. "I feel it's just absolutely unbelievable the tremendous student response we received. It's a tremendous c'redit to our stu­dent body.'' 
South Bend is one of nine cities that will have Christmas in April programs in 1989 in­cluding such others as Wash­ington D.C., Philadelphia, Kansas City and Midland, Texas, where the program originated. It will also be an an­nual event with possible plans for expansion, according to Doran. 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Design Assistant Accent Designer 
For further information, contact Alison Cocks at 239-5303 or 283-4042 
1989 MAZDA 323 GTX HATCHBACK 
COLLEGE GRADUATE PROGRAM ON NOW! PLUS $400 rebate! 


®BERTLESG 
rnii2Da 
52203 u.s. 31 /33 North 272-8504·or TOLL FREE 1-BD0-552·2096 
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs. Evenings til 8 p.m . 
Schorr said. 

Schorr claims that these recent social and economic changes in American society have made it more important than ever to provide better edu­cation and counseling for im­poverished children. 
Schorr identifies four essen­tial characteristics that all suc­cessful social programs have in common. She said that the pro­grams must be comprehensive and intensive. "They must have a wide array of services that are delivered with flexibility'" she said. 
Moreover, the organizations to help disadvantage children must "deal with a child as part of a family and the family as part of a neighborhood and a community." In other words, Schorr urges the social workers or teachers to look beyond the immediate problem to reach its source and to ''take into account the real world of those they serve." 
Schorr said that staffs of so­cial workers must have "the time, training and skills needed to build relationships of trust and respect with children and their families. It is crucial that they provide service respect­fully and ungrudgingly.'' 
Finally, Schorr said that there must be an active col­laboration across professional and beaucratic boundaries. "How they provide assistance to disadvantaged children is as important as what they pro­vide," she claimed. 
"More Americans must un­derstand that all will benefit from improving the lives of dis­advantaged children. Every American is burdened by the cost of not making the invest­ment, " Schorr said. 
Schorr spoke on "Breaking the Cycle of Disadvantage by Building on Our Successes'' in the sixth and final presentation in "The Year of the Child in Family Policy" lecture series. 

lawyer said he would be able to make bail after a supervis­ing judge cut it to $25,000 from the $1 million bond or $500,000 cash set Wednesday by Judge Kenneth Rohl. An enraged Rohl had said of the spill, "We have a man-made destruction that has not been equaled, probably, since Hiroshima.'' 
Hazelwood spent Wednesday night in jail on New York's Long Island, where he lives, and an extradition was pend­ing. 
Also Wednesday, two oil companies, Shell and Chevron, limited gasoline deliveries to distributors in Western states in what one official called the first U.S. gas rationing since the Arab oil embargo of 1973. Both companies said the rationing was to prevent the hoarding of gasoline in the wake of the spill. 
In Washington, officials from Exxon Corp~, the Bush admin­istration and the state of Alaska were called to the Capitol to brief members of Congress today on the spill. 


19 Birthdays Later, Together at Notre Dame... 


HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR! 
Love, Mom and Dad 
~~~ALUMNI===== 


i!:CLUB 
Come experience 
BARBARA BILLINSLY'S Ointment 

LIVE FRIDAY 10:00PM 
RECORD RELEASE PERFORMANCE 
SATURDAY 
"Come on out" 
9:00 -2:00 am 


Friday, April 7, 1989 The Observer 
page 7 


Can you believe that this little kid grew up to become a Notre Dame prof & sports fanatic? Hope you have a great B-day this Saturday!! 
-lfi'(J/f(~(}~ cfp.iftilfj tel(f(Jfl' ~(JI( 
.:Saint oifaty ·,. CoUc.9c. :l::Jcpatlmcnt of eammuni.calion 
~c.fu.do,ylfPn{otmancc. ~nee. 
puuntJ 
and Clh.c.ah£. 
'11 1otk1~op 


Eastern 

continued from page 1 
topped by another suitor, iden­tified by sources close to the situation as billionaire hotel ex­ecutive Jay Pritzker. 
Under the offer accepted by Texas Air, U eberroth and Thomas Talbot, a former air­line executive from California, would own 30 percent of the air­line. Easterns unions would have get another 30 percent of the company in exchange for wage and work-rule conces­sions. The remaining 40 per­cent would be held by new in­vestors, including Drexel 
1988-89 PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 
Presents: 
WEET HONE IN -THE ROCK 
The Final Event of the Season Fri., April 7,8 p.m. 

O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: $7.50, $6.50, $5.50 

Reservations:  !  
219-284-4626  •  
Visa, MasterCard  ARTs  

accepted MIDWEST 


--·-$-­Saint Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME ·INDIANA 



Griff 
continued from page 12 
themselves, and feel shabby 
with guilt for dishonoring the 
priesthood. 
Should a priest feel diminished in his manliness, or neutered, because he lives by an ideal? No more so than a husband does when he's faithful to the wife he loves, in good times and in bad. 
When the masks come off, La Belle Dame will find out I'm not the Jabborwock. Per­haps I'll find out that she's not the femme fatale she ap­pears to be. At heart, I suspect, every priest-bashing Catholic woman is just an-
We needsomeonewith the confidenceofa n, thededicationo amarathonerandthe rourageofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer. Call us at 1-800-424-8580, Ext. 93. 
PeaceCorps. 
1M toughesl job you11 twr kM. 
other version of Wendy Dar­ling, the girl who went to 
Never-Never Land to be a 
mother to Peter Pan and the lost boys who didn't want to grow up. 
You can see, can't you, that for our local priest-bashers, who do their needling out of love, Notre Dame is Never­Never Land? And the priests are just boys who don't want to grow up, in need of a mot­her's help? 
I can forgive La Belle Dame Sans Merci for wanting to be Wendy, if she can for­give me for not wanting to be Peter Pan. Perhaps, without either of us knowing it, she's showing me the way to a kinder, gentler Roman Catho­lic Church. 
~,,,.,, 

~t•q;rR!IliP·, . ~,, ll 
"*· 
Greeks protest 
Striking civil servants wave clenched fists in the air as they march through the streets of downtown Athens, Greece Thursday demanding higher wages and index-linked pay increases. More than 
Commercials on children's TV sharply up 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The amount of TV commercials aimed at children has increased dramatically since the Reagan administration lifted regula­tions on such advertising, Congress was told today at a hearing on a bill that would reimpose restrictions on kids' TV programs. 
Rep. Edward Markey, D­Mass., said that the three major television networks had steadily increased the number of minutes per hour of adver­tising in children's TV shows from below the 9.5-minute limit established by the Federal Communications Commission in 1974 to as much as 11 minutes per hour today. 
"Prior to 1984 when the com­mission enforced commercial guidelines all these networks were either at or below the 9.5 minutes per hour limit," Markey said. "However, in the five short years since the com­mission deregulation order, commercial time has been on the rise with stations at two of the networks now offering as many as 11 minutes per hour of commercial matter.'' 
Markey said the government must stem the "endless 

AP Photo 

5,000 demonstrators took part in the march which kicked off a series of two-day work stoppages. More than 300,000 civil servants are participating in the strike actions. 
streams" of TV commercials 
on children's shows because 
broadcasters are not regulat­
ing themselves. 

But the president of the As­sociation of National Adver­tisers disagreed at a hearing before the House Energy and Commerce telecommunica­tions and finance subcommit­tee. 
DeWitt Helm said the bill before the House and a com­panion measure before the Sen­ate were unconstitutional and may not actually achieve the goal of improving the quality and quantity of children's pro­gramming. 



Congress amends Bush's S&L bill 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Congress, under the cloud of $9.4 billion in fresh deposit withdrawals from the nation's savings and loan institutions, began amend­ing President Bush's bailout bill Thursday. Members imme­diately got into a dispute over reopening some of last year's deals that provided $38 billion to the industry. 
On a bipartisan vote, the House Banking subcommittee on financial institutions moved immediately to deny Bush some of the controls he had sought over officials running the government's deposit in­surance program. 
The subcommittee also amended Bush's proposal by transferring regulatory over­sight of state-chartered but federally insured S&Ls from the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp .. 
Bush in February proposed transferring authority over federally chartered thrifts from the bank board to the FDIC, which regulates com­mercial banks. 
But the committee rejected an amendment by Democratic Rep. Richard Lehman to allow 31 of the nation's largest thrifts, many of them in his home state of California, to become banks and escape future insurance liability for the costs of the S&L bailout. 
The panel also balked tempo­rarily at an effort by Rep. Doug 
Barnard D-Ga., to prevent the 
government from recovering 
some of the billions of dollars 
in long -term aid it committed 
last year to buyers of 179 insol­
vent thrifts. 
Subcommittee members also 

questioned the legality of many 
of last year's bailouts, saying 
the bank board had committed 
billions of dollars Congress had 
not authorized it to spend. 
Banking Committee Chair­

man Henry Gonzalez, D-Texas, 
said some of those deals were 
with multimillionaires who put 
up little or none of their own 
money. 
In one December transac­

tion, government aid exceeded 
the nearly $6 billion combined 
costs of the 1970s bailouts of 
New York City and the 
Lockheed Corp. and the 1980 
bailout of Chrysler Corp., ac­
cording to auditors. 
Barnard, in the face of strong opposition, temporarily withdrew his amendment to prevent the government from seeking to recover from hold­ing companies some of the sub­sidies the FSLIC had promised to S&L purchasers. 
But he complained that "all of a sudden we are weasling on commitments that were made." 
In all the subcommittee has before it 165 proposed amend­ments to the administration's proposal. 
The bank board, meanwhile, released figures showing that depositors removed $9.4 billion from the S&Ls in February . 
Burnham Lambert Inc. and Ardshiel Inc., a smaller New York firm. 
The group also will receive a minority interest in Texas Air's computer reservations system. The reservation network, Sys­tem One, is comprised of the former systems of Eastern and Continental Airlines, also owned by Texas Air. 
Lorenzo has been vilified by Eastern workers as a union­buster who was stripping the airline of its assets and funnel­ing them to Continental, which is substantially non-union. 

North 
continued from page 1 
North, who faces 12 felony charges including lying or mis­leading Congress and then­Attorney General Edwin Meese about his efforts to help the Contras, testified that he had been ordered by his super­iors to keep silent about his role in keeping the rebels going after the cutoff of official aid. 
"I was told not to tell anybody," North said. "I was particularly admonished" to keep secret ''that another country was providing millions of dollars to help the Contras." 
That was an apparent refer­ence to Saudi Arabia, which supplied some $32 million in aid to the Contras, beginning in mid-1984. 
North described himself as an orders-obeying Marine who had planned to return to Camp Lejeune to command a bat­talion when top officials in the Reagan administration en­listed him to run the secret Con­

,• tra operation in 1984. "Was there a time when you were stepping in'' to help the Contras? asked North lawyer Brendan Sullivan. 
( "I was not stepping in; I was brought in," North replied. 
page 8 The Observer Friday, April 7, 1989 

Sullivan asked whether North "understood" that Reagan had designated him as the Contras' new provider. Prosecutor John Keker ob­jected; U.S. district Judge Ger­hard Gesell sustained the objection and North didn't an­swer. 
On point after point, North said he had permission of su­periors. For Project Democracy, as the help to the Contras was known, he said he had the approval of McFar­lane, Poindexter and Casey. The orders to keep secret the contributions from other countries came from the pres­ident, Casey and McFarlane, he said. 
"I never made a single trip 
down  there  or  a  single  con­ 
tact,"  North said of his fre­ 
quent  visits  to  Central  

America, ''without the permis­
sion, the express permission, of Admiral Poindexter or McFar­lane or usually without the con­currence of Director Casey.'' 
McFarlane had testified that he told his staff members the congressional ban on helping the Contras did apply to them, but North said "I never heard" that. 
As for raising money, he said, referring to himself and potential contributors, "I knew Colonel North could not ask them for money." 
Mter the congressional ban cut off official U.S. aid, North said he told Casey that ''all the money in the world" wouldn't replace the former CIA assis­tance. He said Casey gave him the name of retired Army Maj. Gen. Richard Secord, who "basically created a mirror image outside the CIA'' to keep provisions coming. 




Rally 
continued from page 1 
abortion. Oral arguments in the case are scheduled for later this month. 
The Reagan administration 
also pushed to overturn Roe vs. 
Wade and failed. But since the 
issue last came before the 
court, two new justices have 
been seated and Justice Lewis 
Powell, a key defender of the 
1973 decision, has retired. 
Of the newcomers, Justice 
Antonin Scalia is thought to fa­
vor overturning or curtailing 
the decision. Justice Anthony 
Kennedy's views on the ruling 
are not known, but some obser­
vers think there may now be a 
one-vote majority for changing 
the law. 
"Women have felt abortion 
always would be legal, but now 
that it's clear there's a clear 
and present danger, they're 
responding,'' said Eleanor 
Smeal, president of the Fund 
for the Feminist Majority. 
The message of the march is 
directed at the nine justices 

B I
-
K E
-
who will decide the case, and who organizers say are not im­mune to public opinion. 
"They understand public opinion. Everyone is in­fluenced by public opinion," said Molly Yard, president of the National Organization for Women. "If the outcry and protest is loud enough and big enough, they'll hear it." 
The marchers also intend to send a message of disapproval to President Bush, who as one of his first acts as president in January addressed · by tele­phone an anti-abortion rally of about 67,000 outside the White House. 
''He has thrown down the gauntlet," Yard said. 


NEW BIKE OPTIONS 




CLINIC 
Sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics 
MutuiliC\ 
o/Qmilhil"1.1 Compilllie5 Procecuonpr~uc,~Lw-CHECK OUT 
MOTOAL OF OMAHA'S CLASS OF '89 
Insurance is becoming a first-choice career for many 
these days. Stability and steadily increasing financial 
rewards are two good reasons. 
Mutual of Omaha is another. Our proven sales system, 
complete package of modern Total Income Protection 
products and first-class training are also strong 
incentives. So are the long-term client relationships our 
successful agents enjoy. Mutual of Omaha's Class of '89 is entitled to high 
expectations. Perhaps higher than any new sales representatives in our history. 
Send resume to: BJ Randall P.0. Box 2858 South Bend, IN 46680 Equal Opportunity Companies Mlf. 

SATURDAY 
APRIL 
11:00 AM FIELDHOUSE MALL 
MAINTENANCE TIPS 
''EXTRAORDINARY ONE OF THE RARE MOVIES OF THE PAST DECADE THAT ACTUALLY STRETCH, BREAK A:VD RE-FORM THE BOUNDARIES OF THE MEDIU"i\tt:' -David Denby, NEW YORK MAGAZINE 


''F ANTAS11C!'' 
-Richard Corliss, TIME MAGAZINE 
"THE FIRST TIME I SAW THE FILM I THOUGHT IT WAS A KNOCKOUT; ON SECOND VIEWING IT ALREADY SEEMED A CLASSIC:' 
-J. Hoberman, VILLAGE VOICE 
" * * * * (Highest Rating)


MAGICAL:' 
-Mike McGrady, NEJf'SDAY 
"FUNNY, COMPASSIONATE AND EXQUISITELY ROMANTIC:' 
-Df't'id Sterritr. CHRIST/A_,. SCIESCE JIO.\ITOR 

~ NOTR£ DAME 
.,

COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
ToNIGIIT AT THE sNITE Notre '=30• 9=45 Cinematheque 





Viewpoint
Friday, April 7, 1989 page 9 

=Ihe=-Obset:Ver~--= 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich lantlelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor •..........••.... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager••...•. Shannon Roach Sports Editor ......•••........•.... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector................... Angela Bellanca Controller...................... _ ...... Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame _du Lac and_ Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poltc1es of the admm~strat1on of e1ther 1~stitution. The news is reported as accurately and obJeCtively as poss1ble. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the majority of the followmg: Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef~ Manag1ng Ed1tor. Executive News Editor. Viewpoint Ed1tor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor, Photo Editor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commuMy and the free express1on of varying opinions on campus, through 
letters. IS encouraged. 

~------------------------------------------------J 

U.S. aids discrimination 
•


1n Northern Ireland 
By Maura O'Siochain 
If you were a Catholic in Nor­thern Ireland, it would be al­most three times more likely for you to be unemployed than a Protestant: Unemployment in Northern Ireland is a stag­gering 22 percent. But broken down by communities, Catholic unemployment is 38 percent while Protestant is 16 percent. In some Catholic areas un­employment is over 80 percent. 
Since the State of Northern Ireland was established by the British government in 1921, anti-Catholic discrimination has been systematic, endemic, and clearly encouraged by the British government. 
It is widely acknowledged on the basis of independent aca­demic research that a system of economic apartheid has been created and maintained in Nor­thern Ireland for almost sev­enty years. This economic apartheid is so thoroughly documented that even British government spokespersons no longer attempt to deny its reality. 
_Due to the wide recognition throughout the world of the anti-Catholic discrimination in Northern Ireland, the British government passed cosmetic legislation banning employ­ment discrimintion in Northern Ireland in 1920, 1973 and 1976 (Fair Employment Act). In 1976, a Catholic was two times more likely to be unemployed than a Protestant; under Brit­ain's 1976 "Fair Employment Act", the figure increased to al­most three times. It certainly will be interesting to see how many times this figure will 
DOONESBURY 
HeAR THIS ON£, fXJO IT REAUY HAPP&NW, I 5PI&AR! GUY CAU5 HOM/3 ANO 5AYS 70 
j H/5 MOTHER.. ANI? fATH/3R., "I 
.!  8JT 50M/3 6001? Neu/5 ANO  
:  90M& 8A[) N&/A/5.  
RRSTOFAU.-,  
I'M 6AY.''  


once again increase under Brit­
ain's new "Fair Employment 
Act'' tentatively set to be 
enacted sometime in 1991. It is 
obvious that the British govern­
ment has introduced this new 
"Fair Employment" legisla­
tion in a frantic attempt to dis­
credit the MacBride Prin­
ciples. 
The United States is the 
single largest foreign investor 
in Northern Ireland (24 com­
panies) and therefore the 
single largest subsidizer of re­
ligious discrimination. The 
most blatant example of an 
American firm perpetuating 
religious apartheid in Northern 
Ireland is the Ford Motor Com­-pany. Even though Ford's 
plant is located in West Belfast 
which is almost 90 percent 
Catholic, only 2.6 percent of 
Ford's skilled workforce is 
Catholic. 
To bring about an. effective 
Fair Employment Program ip 
Northern Ireland, Nobel 
laureate and founder of Am­
nesty International Sean 
MacBride, along with other 
leading figures in the field of 
social economic equality in 
Ireland, introduced in 1984 the 
MacBride Principles. The 
MacBride principles are a set 
of nine equal opportunity 
guidelines for companies oper­
ating in Northern Ireland, 
molded after the Sullivan Prin­
ciples for firms operating in 
South Africa. The principles do 
not call for quotas, nor do they 
call for reverse discrimination. 
The sponsors do not want in­
vestment withdrawn from Nor­
thern Ireland, and, by firms 
merely complying to the equal 
opportunity employment legis­lation that the MacBride Prin­ciples advocate, there is no rea­son why investment would decrease. 
The Northern Ireland Fair Employment Practices Act has been introduced in both the 
U.S. Senate and the House of Representatives. The bill calls for U.S. firms with investments in Northern Ireland to adhere to the MacBride Principles. To date, 10 states and 11 cities have already enacted MacBride Principles legisla­tion. 
Since the MacBride Prin­ciples will be addressed next year by Indiana's State legis­lation, you, the students at Notre Dame, will be able to help secure the Principle's pas­sage in this state. 
A newly formed organization at Notre Dame--the Northern Ireland Awareness Group--will be holding its first meeting Sat­urday, April 8th at 1:30 p.m. in room 112 of the Law School. In addition to discussing the MacBride Principles, there will also be a discussion on other aspects of the human, le­gal, and civil rights violations occurring in Northern Ireland, and what you as students can do to help rectify these grievous injustices. 
Now is the time for the "Irish" of Notre Dame to let the British government know that its censorship and media manipulation of the situation in Northern Ireland has, at long last, failed. 
Maura  O'Siochain  is  a  
graduate  student in  Econo m­ 
ics.  

ANI? HIS M07Hl3R SHRI/3/<'S ANP0</&.5 ANP 
CARRJE5 ON, AN!J THeN ~_, 
AFTeR A JVHIU, Hl5 T,IT71..1'.1 
~Y5, "~WHAT'S 7Hf36(X}f? NEWS'!" AND THt 6lJY 5AY.S, 11THAT WAS 7H8 600[) NWS.' '' 
""' 

LETTERS 
Publications need neutrality 
Dear Editor: 
I couldn't help but feel a great deal of irony when I read The Observer's editorial of March 31 condemning faculty endorsements in the recent stu­dent elections. While I whole­heartedly agree that faculty members shouldn't use their University positions to cam­paign personal views, I believe that the school publications are equally (if not more so) obligated to remain neutral. I was rather surprised and more than a little perturbed when I encountered endorsements for a specific ticket in both The Ob­server and The Scholastic. To quote The Observer's own statement: 
"It is improper for someone not part of the political system to campaign for a certain can­didate. Such campaigning creates an unfair advantage for that ticket. .. it is improper for him (Holtz) or for any other member of the faculty, staff, or administration to use his or her influence and reputation to interfere in a student election.'' 
An endorsement is a personal opinion and The Observer has allowed itself to be used as the vehicle_ of such an opinion by fronting its "official" endorse­
~ 
ment. That endorsement 
belonged on the editorial page 
as the opinion of an individual 
writer within a column--and 
even that is of dubious jour­
nalistic integrity. The Obser­
ver has a duty to the student 
body which it supposedly 
serves to remain neutral in 
such matters. I can only think that I would have been out­raged had I been on a ticket other than the one endorsed. 
Personal beliefs (whether of a faculty member or student) should be expressed personal­ly; it is an abuse of power to use one's position to further them. Event though a student­run newspaper, The Observer is not a part of the student po­. litical system--the students that run it are. The Observer itself isn't. The Observer should exist to serve all stu­dents, not individual students-­and its support of individual beliefs did precisely the latter. 
I would appreciate it if The Observer would next time live by the principles it, itself, ap­plied to the faculty, promoting fairness and maintaining its in­tegrity. 
Michael Conry Newhouse St. Edward's Hall 
April 2, 1989 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAy 
6UY'S AMAZIN6! H&'S HAI.-F a=AO,
1/A, HA,HAI 
ANlJ H/3 STilL 
PUT5MB 

'It my film makes one more
HA,HA! 
AWAY! 

person feel miserable, I'll
~-/ 

feel I've done my job.'
\ 
Woody Allen 
4-7 











fri.
MOVIES 

"The Big Easy"
Engineering Auditorium, 8, 10:15 p.m. "Wings of Desire" Annenburg Auditorium, 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 

MUSIC 

Collegiate Jazz Festival Opening session featuring Notre Dame Jazz Band at 7:30p.m. "Judges Jam" starts at 11:30. Admission at the door is $7, students price is $4. 
Folk-rock singer/humorist will be performing as part of the Club Tuesday program, Haggar College Center, at Saint Mary's College, 8:30p.m.-11 p.m. 
A capella Quintet Sweet Honey in the Rock, an acapella quintet at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Aud. 
Center Street Blues Mike Gibb and the Homewreckers, at Center Street Blues, 9:30 p.m. 


sat. 

MOVIES 

"Young Guns" Engineering Aud., 8, and 1Q:15 p.m. 

MUSIC 

Collegiate Jazz Festival Clinics 11:30 -1 p.m. , Stepan Center Collegiate Jazz Festival "Meet the Judges" 12:30 p.m. , Stepan Center 
Collegiate Jazz Festival Final session featuring Notre Dame Jazz Combo at 7:30, Stepan Center. 
'--. 
Center Street Blues 
' .. ~ 
j' 
~ -~ 'j 
Mike Gibb and the Homewreckers, 
...,. 
,, at Center Street Blues, 9:30p.m. 
~ ,'~' 
f ·.• 
Smithsonian Institute Concert 
r . ['i
' ' "Music in my Pockets", Annen berg 
' ' 
I ,,( Aud. at 7 p.m. Tickets are $5.. 


FEATURES 
Mr. Stanford Contest Library Auditorium, 7 p.m., tickets $2. Ice Capades JACC at 11:30 p.m., 3:30p.m. and 7:30 p.m. 
• 


Mr. Jordan reveals new, innovative Lennon 
ROBYN SIMMONS assistant accent editor 
W 
hen Julian Len­non released his debut album 
Valotte in 1984, 

it was difficult to listen to his music without making comparisons to his legendary father. Refreshing­ly, Julian's third and latest al­bum, Mr. Jordan, proves that the younger Lennon is an art­ist in his own right who doesn't need to rely on his fa­ther's popularity to sell a record. 
While the vocals on his ear­lier hits, "Valotte" and "Too Late For Goodbyes," sounded eerily like his late father, lis­teners will be surprised at the 
' new sound in Mr. Jordan. In the first single from the LP, "Now You're in Heaven" Lennon's voice sounds un­usually low--an unexpected but effective change. "Now You're in Heaven" is a robust, rocker of a song and definitely the strongest cut on the album. "Now You're in Heaven" is followed by "You're the One." Musically and lyrical­ly, "You're the One" is a strong song and makes a good follow-up to "Now You're in Heaven." Lennon's vocal range is more experi­mental in "You're the One;" on the verses he uses his lower range, but his pitch goes up a couple of octaves for the refrain. Sometimes Lennon's vocal experimentation is successful, but sometimes it falls flat. "I Get Up" is one such example. 


Smithsonian lectures are this weekend's attraction 
The song has a lively beat, and the refrain is catchy, but Lennon literally burns both ends of the candle on the vo­cals. On the verses, he mumbles through the words like he's doing a poor man's imitation of Elvis Presley; then his "real" voice magi­cally returns on the refrain. This lack of vocal continuity spoils a potentially good song. 
The only other cut that is really weak is "Angillette." The song drags, and it really goes nowhere. Also, the lyrics are particularly sappy: ". . . Please don't let her die, my mind just won't accepV She is not the kind of girl that's strong or has respect." 
One of the best cuts on Mr. Jordan may not make the Top 40 like "Now You're in Heaven," but it is truly a standout. ''Mother Mary,'' written by Lennon, is far removed from the recent Top 40 fluff. He uses his normal vocal range, and the lyrics are much more introspective than the rest of the cuts on the LP: "Mother Mary, is this wrong for mel To judge myself by what you see/ And if I stand here/ Will you stand by mei·If the choice that I make! Is the choice to be me." 
Overall, Mr. Jordan is well­crafted. Through his vocal ex­perimentation, Lennon intro­duces a new sound, and it's impressive that all of the songs are either written by Lennon or co-written with his longtime guitarist and writing partner John McCurry. Len­non is an artist with a lot of potential and although it may not be fully realized, it is very evident in Mr. Jordan. 
KYM MACARTHUR accent writer 

T 
his weekend, South Bend-Mishawaka residents will have the opportunity to engage in some cultural di­versity of their own. Today through Sunday, special guest lecturers. and performers from the Smithsonian Institu­tion will be in town as part of their National Lecture and Seminar Program. 
Smithsonian Associates (magazine subscribers) num­ber 2.4 million nationwide, 3500 in the South Bend-Mishawaka area. The Lecture and Seminar Pro~ gram visits 20 cities each year in an effort to "acquaint members and the public with Smithsonian research." 
Tonight's 7:00 lecture, "Treasures of the Smith­sonian," at the Northern In­diana Historical Society, will "lead the audience on a vicarious tour of the Smith­sonian museums,'' which in­clude such attractions as the Hope Diamond. 

Tomorrow morning at 10 at the Mishawaka-Penn Public Library, "The Golden Age of Flight" will "highlight the heroic pilots of the Golden Age and (their) aircraft." 
A slide-illustrated tour of the NatJonal Air and Space Museum will be shown. at 3 tomorrow afternoon at In­diana University at South Bend. 
Tomorrow evening at 7, Jeff Warner will give a concert, "Music in My Pockets." Featuring ''folktales collected from maritime and rural locales," the concert will be in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. Stu­dents will have a rare oppur­tunity to hear genuine folk music on campus as Warner, "with humor and musical flair, wends his way across America's plains and moun­tains ... through 300 years of ballads and songs.'' 
On Sunday, "The Fate of the Tropical Rainforest'' will present a "unique look at the rapid destruction'' of the rain­forest. This lecture will be in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's College, at 1 p.m. 
At 4 p.m. Sunday, at the South Bend Art Center, the Warner Gallery, "Artists and Their Studios'' will survey the workplaces of famous artists. 
Smithsonian Associates and members of local co­sponsoring organizations receive advance notice of these events. Remaining tick­ets will be sold at the door of each event. For further ticket information, please call the Snite Museum, 239-5466, or Saint Mary's College, 284­4655. 
Friday, April 7, 1989 
' 


collegiate 
J A Z Z 


festival 

Renowned judges and talented students promise exciting show 
JASON WINSLADE 
accent writer 

T 
he excitement of student-performed jazz music and celebrity judges highlights one of Notre Dame's long-standing traditions this weekend, as the annual Collegiate Jazz Festival returns to Stepan Center. 
Fifteen bands will perform, including nine big bands and six combos, chosen from a 
group of 120 applicants from colleges around the country. The musicians will be judged by a panel of six judges, in­cluding five professional jazz musicians and a professional critic. 
The selection process for the festival begins in Septem­ber when the event is planned and judges are contacted. In November and December, schools are sent applications, and the applications are received in January by the committee at Notre Dame. 


This committee consists of Father George Wiskirchen, now in his 30th year with the festival, and co-chairmen Kevin Keane and Paul Lough­ridge. Local businesses, newspapers and television stations are solicited; and the festival is finally set up by a planning staff of 20 and a total of about 50 people working on lights and other technical aspects. 
This year's celebrity judges, who will participate in a "Judges Jam" at 11:30 
Friday night, consist of Ed Shaughnessy, the drummer from "The Tonight Show;" Jim McNeely, of the Jim McNeely Trio, and former student of Wiskirchen, on piano; Frank Wess, former member of the Count Basie Orchestra, and freelance musician, on saxophone; Chuck Israels, former mem­ber of the Bill Evans Trio, and composer for the guest band of the University of Illi­nois, on bass; and Claudio Roditi, a freelance Latin per­former, on trumpet. A sixth judge is professional critic Dan Morgenstern, a judge for the festival for many years. 
The festival is enjoyable for both musicians and audience, according to Wiskirchen, fes­tival advisor. "The primary purpose of the festival is edu­cational," he said. It "gives 
musicians a chance to hear 
other college musicians per­
form, to be critiqued by pro­
fessional judges, and to play 
in front of large, enthusiastic 
audiences." 
Since no actual winners are pronounced at the awards ceremony Saturday night, only individual acknowledge­ments of performers, a spirit of non-competition exists within the festival. "It has all the good points of one those massive track meets without the cutthroat competition,'' said Wiskirchen. College musicians can thus get to­gether just to acknowledge and appreciate each other's talents. · 
According to Wiskirchen, the festival will appeal to all who enjoy jazz and even to those who are unsure. "More people like it than know they like it,'' he said. The festival also offers a chance for jazz lovers to get together and ap­preciate good music. 
Appearing in the opening session at 7: 30 tonight at Stepan Center will be the Notre Dame Jazz Band, the Eastern Illinois University Jazz Quintet, the Crane Jazz Ensemble, the Northeast Mis­souri State University Combo, and the Massachusetts In­stitute of Technology Festival Jazz Ensemble. 
At 11:30 a.m. tomorrow, the University of Illinois guest band will conduct a clinic for jazz bands, followed by a "Meet the Judges" session at 1 
12:30 p.m. Performing at 1 
p.m. will be the Ohio State University Jazz Ensemble, the Long Island University Jazz Ensemble, and the Purdue University Jazz Band. The final session at 7:30p.m. in­cludes performances by the Notre Dame Jazz Combo, the Eastern Illinois University Jazz Ensemble, the Western Michigan University Jazz Or­chestra, the Central Michigan University Jazz Percussion Ensemble, and the Michigan State University Jazz Band I. Preceding the awards cere­mony Saturday night will be a guest appearance by the University of Illinois Big Band. 
Admission is $7 for the tonight's session, $4 for to­morrow afternoon's session, and $6 for tomorrow night's. Students will be discounted $3 per session. An all-session pass is $12. Tickets are avail­able at the LaFortune Box Of­fice, as well as at Nightwinds, Record Connection, and Bonnie Doon Restaurants in South Bend, and Woodwind and Brasswind in Elkhart. Tickets may be reserved with MasterCard-Visa by phone, at 239-5957. Tickets are available at the door. There is no reserved seating. 
etc. 

Friday, April 7, 1989
page 12 

Interpreting the Jabberwock dream 
and sell them in the street.' '' 
They cried, "LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI has had thee in thrall. This is why you sojourn here alone and palely loitering, and unwell!'' 
I said, "I am old Father Griffin, and my hair's turning white." They said, "You are old, Father Griffin, and your face is a sight." I said, "La Belle Dame Sans Merci should be arrested on sight' For disturbing the peace, for picking a fight' Better to woe her with words, making her tame like a Snark! Hell hath no fury like a Belle Dame who's scorned! Who can tear you to ribbons! Like the teeth of a shark ..." 
The alarm rang, and the dream ended there. Bad dreams come, I think, from being over-fed on humble pie. Why are so many critics ready to keep me honest? I should retire the Lonely God, and rename this column, "Letters to the God of Bat­tle." 
Students send mail to the editor to say how unbeliev­able it is that a Catholic priest should like Jews more than he likes Jews for Jesus, or to say how surprised they are to hear a Catholic priest describe Medjugorje in the phrase Adlai Stevenson used to describe Disneyland, as "a paryoxysm in trivia." It's like being told that real priests don't eat bagels, or that they're not allowed to have doubts about the Shroud of Turin. Doesn't a priest have the right not to climb on every passing bandwagon? 
La Belle Dame Sans Merci is obviously a symbol of the priest-bashers. Every parish has those, and not all of them are women. The gifted preist­basher can be highly im­aginative in the labels she pins on a priest; he's the Cowardly Lion, J. Alfred Prufrock, or Tweedledum travelling tandem with Tweedledee. 
She doesn't have anything good to say about any priest; she gives all priests the back of her hand. Whatever mask a priest wears or persona he assumes, whether Wimpy or Santa Claus, the experienced basher can see through it all. 
A little healthy an­ticlericalism never hurt any church, if it keeps priests from getting spoiled. But why do bashers, who must be ex­perts on the sexuality of priests because they're al­ways explaining that sexuality to them, leave you with the impression that they're trying to poison the well? 
Does the basher, who tells priests that the Church has neutered them, want those priests to start hating them­selves as freaks? Has the basher ever asked priests if they feel neutered? Perhaps · La Belle Dame could ask the Dear Ol' Chap she's married to, to explain the difference between being neutered and practicing self-denial. 
Surely to God there can come a day in a marriage when the wife is sick, and the husband, out of concern and consideration, decides not to ask fo the marital rights. If the husband is the spouse with the headache, then his bride will be the one who shows grace under pressure when she gives up her great expectation. Maybe that sit­uation goes on for months, years, or for the remaining time left in the marriage. Has the husband's thoughtfulness left him temporarily neutered because, as a married man, he decides to live as a celibate for as long as neces­sary? Or does that husband deserve to be praised for the love he shows when he places his wife's needs above his own? 
Priests undertake a life of celibacy. Why? It is not nec­essarily because they feel en­nobled ·by their love for God, because God at times keeps His distance. They do it be­cause they love and enjoy the opportunities to help people who come to them as priests, and because they love the priesthood to which celibacy is, not unreasonably, attached as a condition. If they started to cheat on their commit­ment, they could begin hating 
see GRIFF I page 7 
I 
had this strange dream 
in which I was a free­lance in the service of the Lonely God. Free-lancing is like tennis; it's more fun when you have a partner, a Jubjub bird to break your lance on. So masked as the Jabberwock, I came on quest, whiffling through the tulgey wood, burbling as I came. 

Father Robert Griffin 
letters to a Lonely God 
Burbling beside me was the frumious Darby O'Gill, in the uniform of a Bandersnatch. "0 Frabjous day! Callooh! Callay! '' I chortled in my joy, happy to be out of Kansas. 
In the mead by the lake, I met a maid, a fairy's child, a beamish lass, the maxome foe I sought. Taking her vor­pal sword in hand, she rested by the Tumtum tree and stood awhile in thought. 
"Beware the Jabberwock, my girl!" I snarled, "The jaws that bite, the claws that catch!" "On guard," she cried. One, two! One, two! And through and through, her vorpal sword went snicker­snack! Thinking she had slain the Jabberwock, that beamish girl, she moved to cut off the head. But I was quicker; and with a roar, I cut her off at the pass. That roar was--why else?--out of respect for me mum, who taught me well: "Never attack a beamish lass, my son, with the jaws that bite, the claws that catch! To send her galumping back to the slithy toves, my boy, use your bark intead of your bite." 

Eyeing her with eyes of flame, looking so mimsy among the borogroves, I 


stood as if in uffish thought. She could have slain the Jab­borwock, that beamish girl! And straight way I fainted from imagining the loss of blood that would precede an untimely death like mine. 

"They roused me with muffins--they roused me with ice,t They roused me with mustard and cress! They roused me with jam and judi­cious advice! They set me conundrums to guess.'' When at length I sat up and was able to speak, my sad story they asked me to tell. "For what can ail thee, Jabborwock at arms, alone and palely loitering, and unwell?" 
I said, "I'll tell thee every­thing I can! There's little to relate! I saw an aged, aged man, a-sitting on a gate ... He said, 'I look for butterflies! That sleep among the wheat' I make them into mutton pies, 

( Jl 
) 
Friday, April 7, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Only 511 teams left to be eliminated 
Bookstore Tournament 
Thursday's Results 
Stepan 1 AFROTC over Ollie North Fan Club by 8 Darwin's Failure over Return of the Greencoats by forfeit 
Ted Bundy McDonalds and 3 other classic fries over Beasts of Borden by 7 
Stepan 2 The Moles over Ramna Lovers Who Like to Shoot by 12 
Help! Can't Buy Me Love ... over The Creamy Cucum· 
bers by 14 Traveling D1ggerbemes over Sweet Brick ·o· M1ne by 16 
Stepan 3 Grounds Keepers of Busch Gardens over Knott Girls by forfeit 4 People John Likes and the Red Witch over The Primitive Bushmen by 5 Plumbers over Zippy and the Pin-heads bv 17 
Stepan 4 Pontius Pilate's Nail-Driving 5 over With a Canuck and... by 15 The Pelican Punishers over Juice Crew by 16 Whiskey Richard and 4 other Guys.. over 5 Hoses From the Fire House by 12 

Stepan 5 E-Z Cats over We're Ugly and Our Mothers Dress us Funny by 12 Hugh Jayris and the Probes over You Don't Want None of this by 14 The Staggering Deficits over 16 Quarters.9 Dimes. 2 Nickels... by 7 
Stepan 6 4 Long Cookies and a Chocolate Chip over One Foot in the Grave by 12 Dan Quayle, Jane Fonda, and 3 Other Guys... over C'Mon GoaL by 16 Dan Quayle. Digger Phelps, and... over We'd Rather Have Friends... by 15 Wallie, Eddy, Ward and 2 Other Guys ... over The Horny Harlots... by 2 
Bookstore 9 Even We Could Beat Valpo over The Mahogovs by 13 Marc Christian and 2 other Guys.. over Charles Thompson. Donald.. by 3 Melancholy over The Regular Guys by 9 
Bookstore 10 Doctor Love & The Passion Quartets over The Null Hypothesis by 4 Hey Elmer G1ve Me Your Lunch ... over We Had To Do It at Least Once by 6 
Lyons 11 Sex over We Play Better than Digger Phelps by 2 Teetels and the 4 Rips over Sweep It Under The Rug II by 9 Charles Thompson. Ben Johnson. Jay Edwards.. over Our Sheep Can Cook by 2 
Lyons 12 4 Humans. & a House Named Grace over John Tower, Frank Bruno and... by 7 Hit and Run over Winner's Buy by 8 Barry Switzer, AI Capone. & 3 Other Famous Crime ... over Without Smith by 13 
Friday's Games Stepan 1 

4:00 -The Return of the Mad Latin Lover vs. Joey Can't Pass... 
4:45 -Josie and the Pussycats vs. Ineffective Guys 
5:30 -Mother Goose vs. Billy Bob and 4 other birthcontrol poster children 
Stepan 2 

4:00 -5 Guys who Aren't Afraid to wear Tutus... vs. The Archy Judgement 
4:45 -Weebte Wobbles vs. Freud1an Slip 
5:30 ·We Double Pump Before We Shoot vs. Sat­man Rushie and 4 other Guys... 
Stepan 5 

4:00 -M1ke Kart & 3 Trumpeteers witl1 a Tone vs. lggy Pop at the Buzzer 
4:45 -The Best Looking Team in the Wortd ... vs. Upright Organs 
5:30 -Laserjocks vs. 3 Basketball Terms We Couldn't Print 
Stepan 4 

4:00 -4 Men and a Baby vs. Bud & The 4 Tall Boys 
4:45 -The Endoplasmic Reticulum vs. o-3, The Final Chapter ... 
5:30 -Censored Team £262 vs. Sherpa's Army 
Stepan 6 

4:00 -Axe-wielding Maniacs vs. 4 Men and the Red-headed Stepchild 
4:45 -We Don't Know vs. Too High to Sky 
5:30 -Violent Bricklayers vs. Betty's SC 
Stepan 3 

4:00 -The Shockers vs. Freedom Rock 
4:45 -Four Skins and a Sh1rt vs. Solid Frustration II 
5:30 ·Nag and the Winners vs. We Love Elvis 
Ball St. names I 
j 
Hunsaker coach ~ I 
I 
j
Associated Press 

j j MUNCIE--Dick Hunsaker. j men's associate head basket­j ball coach at Ball State the past ~ 
I
two years, has been appointed 

j
the Cardinals' new coach, ath­

j
letic director Don Purvis an­

jnounced Thursday. jHunsaker, who will turn 35 I Tuesday, succeeds Rick j Majerus, who resigned Mon­! jday to take the coaching posi­
I
tion at Utah. 

jHunsaker, who helped the Cardinals accumulate a 29-3 l record in the recently com­j pleted season, inherits a vet­I eran squad that includes all I 
I
five starters from a team that 

I
reached the second round of the 

I
NCAA Tournament and was 

I
ranked No. 18 in the final As­I sociated Press poll. I 
I 
l
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 until 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. I Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must ~
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NEW LONDON LAKE CONDOMINIUM CATHOLICS IN BAD The ST. ED'S CHARITY CARNIVAL SENIORS Condo faces pool that's surrounded STANDING April 23 Stepan Center Moving to a new city after graduation? 
____No_T_Ic_es__,J '--I_FO_RRE_NT~I Need to find a roommate? Then Ieaiie
by a lake stocked with bass. Features 2 large bdrms, 2 baths, all appliances, Saturday April 8. 9:30pm your name and new city at THE CAREER 2 car garage & new carpet throughou~. at THEODORES AND PLACEMENT OFFICE.
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
JJUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS­Located on Ironwood at Bulla. Close
TYPING AVAILABLE 2t9-291-7153. to everything. Sn,700. Call Janice Hll­Live Dance Music JUNIORS .... TO ALL COUPLES LOOKING TO
287-4082 dabrldle at Cressy & Everett 233-6141 Free admission Save your money, senior trip sign ADOPT: Young, loving, healthy, VIRILE or 233-8883. ups comtng soon !!!!! male willing to assist in the conceptionNICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 

OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY 2-4 PM of your baby. Respond here.
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for 287-6389, 683-8889. 
CATHOLICS IN BAD JJUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS­CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash JUNIORS..
STANDINGor Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE 

NEED A CAR? '81 SUBARU,FWD,108K LIVE MUSIC AT THEODORES
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232-3616 HAPPY B·DAY MARK BETIENCOURT! Ave.(walking d1stance from campus) ph. $925 OR DECENT OFFER CALL 3554 IF YOU GOT A SURVEY ON We tuv u ·cause you're a sensitive man 
NOTRE DAME DINING HALLS of the 80's'
233·2342 FOUR FLAGS FARM BED AND JUNIORS Tara-Thank you for the time of my life.­please send them in to us throug Campus Luv, your b the sec. of coolness. theBREAKFAST CONVENIENTLY LO­
...Oops! this was Mail. We really appreciate all you help.
JUNIORS Paul supposed to ap­sec. of the defensive backfield and all DfWordprocesslng-Typlng CATED 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL JUNIORS pear in Monday's Observer! Badin.
272-8827 FOR ALL NO ACTIVITIES. 616-471­
Class of '90 Dog Books are IN! THE WORLD TOUR CONTINUES 5711. 
AT CLUB 23

P1ck yours up in the Class Office SKYDIVING CLASS EVERY WEEKEND SUZIE "S.P." REISING I BOUGHT AVAT NOW!!! DEAN 287-3024 JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL OF MOTION LOTION,DAN I DRANK 2
SUMMER LODGING IN SOUTH BEND FRIDAY 8-1
Price is $10. GALLONS 2 DAY, MOKE IT'S N-E-V-A­L-A, BUT DEW ME!,TOM 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. SUMMER SCHOOL7 
WORKING HERE? MR.STANFORD IS COMING! .
CANNONDALE Mtn. Bike, 1 yr. old, ex­To the two guys shooting baskets Tues. TROJAN,RAMSES,OR COLOSSUS?
YOU NEED PRIVACY TO STUDY, 
ellen! cond., $375-b.o. Craig 283·3014 night at 11 :30 at Lyons. You have my SCOTI YOU TINGLE WHEN THE WIND 
REST, MR.STANFORD IS COMING! 
ball. It is sentimental Please return to BLOWS, US
TYPING AND PLAY AT YOUR BEST 
Pioneer CD Player PD-4100, only six Julie Bernh·ardt 421 Lyons x2791
PICKUP & DELIVERY CHECK OUT A TURTLE CREEK MR.STANFORD IS COMING'
months old. excellent condition. $135 call SPROUT!! SPROUT!! HOW VA DOIN'?!
277-7406 STUDIO 

x1799 5 N.D. NORTHERN IRELAND AWARE· BEHAVE.
CALL JIM AT 272-4788 MR.STANFORD IS HERE!II!I!I TIX NESS GROUP MEETING SAT. APRIL 
AVAILABLE $2

BUICK CENTURY SPECIAL 76 350$ 8TH. 1:30PM ROOM 112 OF THE LAW 
COMING SOON: THE MEATUSES IN CALL NOEL 272-65-62 EVENINGS ACTION FRUSTRATED? 
SCHOOL. MR. NED DELANEY, IN·
Need Money? Part time,13K-53K year. HOME Sublet. May 22·Aug.15. Three MR. STANFORD CONTEST SATURDAY DIANA'S HEAD LOBBYIST FOR THENow seeking highly motivated people for rooms. all furnished.225 $plus uti lilies. APRIL 8th 7:00pm LIBRARY MACBRIDE PRINCIP. FOR FAIR EM·opportun1ties in management and sales. near Emponum. call 2882532 
AUDITORIUM 

PLOYMENT IN N. IREL. AND 
HEY SUMMER CAMPERS! PROFEESSOR CHARLES RICE OFI need help now! Call Phil 21q·232-4783 OUR TANS ARE FADING,
TICKETS
MALE GRADUATES JUNIORS THE N.D. LAW SCHOOL WILL AD­ALONG WITH OUR SPIRIT
TYPING term papersteportst let­Furnished rooms, air, kitchen, fridge, JUNIORS DRESS THE MEETING FOR MORE IN­HOW SAD FOR US!
terS'I'esumes 5 min. N. campus. 272-o&15. JUNIORS
MONEY MONEY MONEY FORMATION PLS. CONTACT A UTILE BIRD TELLS MEPick up & delivery available. 277·5134 Junior Formal PIGS are in & may
I NEED GRADUATION TIX and I can MAURA(2n-4006) OR SUMMER CAMP REVIVAL IS ON ITS
10am-8pm. Lovely spacious apartment, con­be picked up in the Class Office
make it worth your while, call Dan at TIMOTHY(283-237 4 WAY
venient, safe location, accommodate during regular hours.
3365. JUST IN TIME FOR YOU-KNOW­4-5 students. S200tno. per student, CLIP n' SAVE WHO'Sutilities furnished. Kagel's Pant­
WE NEED A MIRACLE!!!!! AT LEAST 2 This coupon good for one legalized BIRTHDAY. HOW HAPPY FOR USI
House Apartment, 602 N. Michigan, JUNIORS
TIX WANTED FOR SHOWS IN LOUIS­Canadian beverage run. Exp1res M!9. 
SOUTH QUAD BETTER WATCH OUT

233-2232. JUNIORS
I LOST/FOUND I 
VILLE AND CINCINNATI. CALL DAN OR Happy 19th Michele. Love. your friendly THE DREADED SUMMER CAMPJUNIORS
CHRIS AT 4079 OR LEAVE MESSAGE. neighborhood weekend filler. 
STALKERS2-BDRM APARTMENT Take me out to the SB White Sox WILL SOON BE OUT AND WIL[)l

FOUND: Set of keys 1n room 215 O'Shag. AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER Home Opener. Friday Nite. Tickets
HELP!!!! I have a one-way ticket to Hous· Dave-The Zany Pepster:
A University of Notre Dame Keychain· CALL 271-8904 $6 in the Junior Class Office.
ton or the Rio Grande Valley (South Your Pepettes still love you! 
room 309. Call # 3688 to claim. # # Padre Island), Texas to sell. It leaves ·So. Bend Chap. of the from Midway at 10:00 on Friday May 12. Z.P. Fan Club FRIDAY
LOST:Brown leather tacket at Senior Bar. Turtle Creek Apt for sublease over sum­Kat1e Scanlon--Do you know what kind
$150. x3877 10 PM

Keep the jacket if you must, but I need mer months. Please call Lisa 284·5270 of family you're marrying into? Mike FREDDIE JONES BANDmy trout light key chain and the keys on or M.J 284-4305. MacLennan-Stay away from Dan lssing Jethro, Tull me about yourself.
I need Grad.tlx. Will pay high $. Call MCCORMICK'S
it and the other stuff in the pockets. tonight! (Scotti) 
Chris at 277-6921. 
125 N. MICHIGANPLEASE CALL JULIE at 4929 or 277· 20 yr old established company with 3216 REWARD' No questions Happy Birthday JMA! Your horoSCOPE 4000% growth over five year period

Need Grad Tix Will Pay $ Call 2765
WANTED
asked!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! says that your 19th will be awesome! I seeks money materialistic people in Sadly, as all good things must, Z BAllSguess you can have the room tonight... search of financial independence for up­NEED GRAD TIX CALL PETE 2n-4165 WEEK finally ends. And now for a few
FOUND:BIFOCALS WITH BLUE Love, coming company briefing call: 255-9804 parting words from our sponsor:
FRAMES,OUTSIDE LIBRARY'S FOUN· Need two good men,$5.5(}hr. Mary Ann & Glenna or 258-0518. 4-10-89 thru 5-1·89 TAIN & BY CCMB CALL JOHN Xt581 Part time-Short term. Labor&lifting Within 
Z is a tool & likes it that way. TO CLAIM walking distance to campus. Call 2n-JAY 
'Smiles' never does. Ween Ted loves Frosh

I PERSONALS I
1997. ATTENTION LADIES! Are you weanng CLEAN underware? 
Frosh loves Ween Ted.

Lost: Emerald & diamond nng set in gold. Due to remaining Inventory from penthouse Feeds wishes tl1at was his only problem.
Great sentimental value. If found please hi ag last semester, prices have Joe blows harmonicas.
call Kelly # 2756 Reward offered. CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE been slashed! Act now! 
WANTED FOR SERVING Devo is whipped like a circus pony.
AIRLINE ADOPTION-Caring. financially secure ROOMATE FOR SALE, To the CHERRY-MAN: Only if you bring 
Fro really digs UA swimmers.

I LOST MY MOST PRIZED POSSES· SOUTH BEND. PLEASE CONTACT couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry housebroken, domestic wizard the chocolate syrup. -the BANANA WO­Sarge is a flaming commie pinko.
SION A GOLD AND DIAMOND HEART J.GEDRA, CONTINENTAL EXPRES wish to love, cherish, and ra1se your new­FREE or best offer! MAN Restler is cool.
SHAPED NECKLACE. IF YOU FOUND STANDARD OIL BLDG. CLEVELAND, born child. Legal and confidential. Please call# 3610 Sonan just thinks he is.
IT PLEASE CALL LISA AT 4945 OHIO 44135. call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-Sn-Sunshine...lor all the laughs. tears. hugs 3574 Always wanted a pet goldfish? Win one and smiles... I just want to say I NEED GRADUATION TIX at the St. Ed's Charity Carmval Sunday, thanks...you make everything 
Oh, and Stu, of course, is 1t1e

LOST:BLUE NAUTICA JACKET AND IN A BIG BIG WAY!! ADOPT: Happily married, professional April 23 worthwhile. 
Ecuadorian Love God and Bus Stop Stud

SONY WALKMAN-WED NIGHT AT CALL DAN # 3495 couple wishes to provide wonderful I Love You. 
$$$$$$$$ At Large. CaN 3507 and remind him.
STEPAN CENTER REWARD-CALL home, secure Mure, much love for AFTER HOURS 1616 IF FOUND. NO ?'S white newborn. Legal. Expenses paid. AFTER HOURS 
Call us collect 212-517·2696. AFTER HOURS Jodi Topel-hope to see you Sat., if you're To the girl at Charity Ball who couldn't found between NDH and psych bid. on CLERKS AFTER HOURS in bad standing keep her hands off of lhe lues 4-5. one goldish 314 loop earring. it M·F 10pm to 5am;5am to 12m 4.25tlr GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID soundboard...Come to Theodore's on doesn't go with my new spring collection M-F 9am to 4pm 4.00tlr Great Little Food TODAY!! 12:15 PM at DOME STEPS RJW--Goin' back to Cali Saturday for Catholics in Bad S:anding so call x4436 to cta1m. Store 12760 US 23 Granger 2n-8102 ROCK AND ROLL Love Betty and I'll let you touch my sliders' 
WITH WEDDING RING LOST WEDNESDAY, POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y. FOREIGN STUDENTS Job-Hunting AFTER HOURS MICHELE HAHAJ: Have a Happy 19th 
PROBABLY NEAR HAVE5-HEALY. Seniors--if this is your new home after Guide (Rev. 1989). Send $19.95 for the FRIDAY CLUB 23, 10.1 why are you so far away? she said Birthday!' Have YOU pin ned him down WIDE BAND, SILVER. CALL PROF. graduiation and you need a roommate. step-by-step guide. lvysoft, PO Box AND why won't you ever know lately? Love, your Siamese Twin SAYRE 239-7124. REWARD give me a call. Pete 2459 241090. Memphis, TN 38124 SATURDAY McCORMIKS, 10.1 that i think it was a form letter 
that i think it was a form letter brc-don't worry, i wasn't too teed off tnat LOST: BEIGE GUCCI WALLET, ACT IN TV COMMERCIALS. NO EXPE­SCAP ..... The Word of the Future!!! Use MYSTERIO ... are you still there? I'll be u didn't know what day t11e Masters was. CANVAS & PIGSKIN. LOST AT RIENCE. ALL AGES. CHILDREN, it NOWII ANYONE WHO RECEIVED AN OBSER­watching the ctassifieds --please write! putt next time write it down or else we'I SENIOR BAR ON THURSDAY BE· TEENS, YOUNG ADULTS. FAMIUES. VER QUESTIONNAIRE BUT HAS NOT end up in the pits. i won't be mad because TWEEN MIDNIGHT AND 1 AM. ETC. HIGH PAY TV ADVERTISING. SUMMER JOBS TURNED IT IN YET, IT'S NOT TOO CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING GNID­usually u r up to par and that makes it PLEASE CALL GARRETT KANEHANN CALL FOR CASTING INFORMATION. ALL LANOWATER SPORTS LATE!!!! PLEASE RETURN ASAP-WE NATS DAB Nl SCILOHTAC CATHOLICS easy to score. hope u have a good mne AT 287-5871. REWARD. CHARM STUDIOS, (313) 542-8400 EXT. PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS NEED YOUR INPUT! THANKS IN BAD STANDING Come see t11em Sat· on saturday. love, me 
2283. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS urday Nile at LOST: BROWN HIPPO WALLET ON ......._....................................................... NEAR LAKE PLACID MARIANNE. THEODORE'S 10:00 Good luck Board Bangers' Sorry we 
NO CAMPUS WEDNESDAY APR. 5. CALL 1-800-343-8373. I LOVE THE HANDCUFFS BABE. won't be there to see you-win'We'• be CALL CHRIS BRACKEY 287·5871. WILL YOU PROMISE TO USE THEM? thinking about ya-love Peg, Kar, Sue. & REWARD. FOR SALE Tom Tisa-your checkbook cover is 1n t11e Cindy. 
SOPHOMORES Observer office. Come and get it! LOST: A blue and white Wilson golf Applications for Junior Parents' Sr TO BE LOOKING FOR ROOM­Ferret--It's OK to like an army man, blAt umbrella. If you found it in Dr. Kuller's BMW R90o6 Motorcycle. 1976. 6 Weekend Chairperson available In MATES -IF YOU NEED ANOTHER RM MISSY CAHILL! MISSY CAHILL! we thought you were the diSCO type!-· 8:00am econ test on Thurs. Please return thousand orig. miles. excellent condition. Student Activities. Due Friday, April 7 OR WANT TO GET AN APPARTMENT MISSY CAHILL! Mtssy Gahill turns 22 Maybe next time you can invite the whole 
it to Tracy x4927. brown, stock, $2200. 872·7315. by 5 pm. CALL DAVE AT 1761 today--campus to our room. Mrs Stanley Mud<.­HAPPY BIRTHDAY! ·Pictures tell all and so does the sink at LOST: 1 BASKETBALL Rolled into St. The St. Ed's Charity Carnival Azars! Woman of many talents--You're
BP ! SPIRIT WEEK t
Mary's Lake on 414 around 4:30pm. Did For Sale: 1 way ticket trom O'HARE to (II you don't go tl means you condone pretty. You're really pretty. We like you. you ptck it up near Grotto or Holy Cross? Portland,OR 5'13 at 10 A.M.$175 Call APRIL 2-8 nun-beating) Need ride to IU for U1tle 500 Can leave Looking forward to tonight, we're gotng 
call X1522 ' Mary P at X 4015. 4-19 cx 4120 X4340 to have a blast' love. Molly & Usa
BP BP BP BP BP BP BP 

Friday, April 7, 1989
The Observer 

Agents' fate handed to jury 
Associated Press to keep clients in both the the agreements defrauded the music and sports businesses universities of their right to 
CHICAGO --A federal jury from reneging on some con­control the scholarships given Thursday began deliberating tracts or refusing to extend to the athletes involved. the case of sports agents Norby others. Walters and Lloyd Bloom, Walters, 58, and Bloom, 29, NFL players Ronnie Harmon charged with signing dozens of are charged with multiple of Buffalo, Paul Palmer of college athletes to improper counts of racketeering, mail Kansas City and Mark Ingram contracts and then threatening fraud and conspiracy to com­of the New York Giants were them if they tried to back out. mit fraud and racketeering. some of the athletes who tes­
U.S. District Judge George If convicted, they could face tified at the trial. They were Marovich turned the case over prison terms of more than 20 among the 43 players who to jurors after more than an years and thousands of dollars signed with Walters and Bloom hour of instructions and nearly in fines. and avoided prosecution with five weeks of testimony. The government charged the pretrial agreements to per­
Included in those instruc­New York-based sports agents form community service and tions was a warning to the 12-signed more than 40 college reimburse portions of their member panel to consider athletes to professional repre­scholarships to their "with caution and great care" sentation contracts while they universities. the testimony of admitted still had eligibility remaining, mobster Michael Franzese. then concealed the agreements The six universities named in 
the indictment include national 
The government contends by post-dating them. Walters and Bloom used the The practice violates NCAA champion Notre Dame, 
Temple, and Big Ten powers
reputation of Franzese, who rules, and the government, in said he was a captain in organ­a novel application of federal Michigan, Michigan State, 
Iowa and Purdue.

ized crime's Colombo family, racketeering laws, is arguing 
Johnson'-s character questioned
AP Photo For the second night in a row the St. Louis Blues needed overtime to survive the Minnesota North Stars 4-3 to take a 2-0 series lead in the Associated Press sionable youth who never un­from Europe in 1986 and an­Norris Division semifinals. derstood the implications of nounced he would like to buy a 
TORONTO --Ben Johnson's taking banned drugs, once house..
NHL Playoffs . 
lawyer and financial adviser citing Johnson's inability to ''I think he came back to me 
Division Semifinals Pittsburgh 7, New York Rangers 4, Pit­painted sharply different place a long-distance telephone about a day later --he had found Wednesday's Results tsburgh leads series 2-0 portraits of the world 100-meter call as proof. an agent; he had found a house. Washington 3, Philadelphia 2 Montreal 3, Hartford 2, Montreal leads record-holder Thursday at an But Earl, a schoolteacher He eventually bought it.'' Pittsburgh 3, New York Rangers 1 series 2-0 
inquiry into drug use among and former president of Earl told the hearing how 
Montreal 6, Hartford 2 

Canadian track and field ath­Johnson's Toronto track club, Johnson's fame and financial
Buffalo 6, Boston 0 Boston 5, Buffalo 3, series tied 1-1 
letes. described the sprinter as a success took off in 1987 after he
Detroit 3, Chicago 2 Chicago 5, Detroit 4, OT, series tied St. Louis 4, Minnesota 3, OT 1-1 Ross Earl, one of Johnson's clever wheeler-dealer whose set the world record of 9.83 Vancouver 4, Calgary 3, OT closest confidants, challenged shrewd bargaining won him his seconds in the 100 meters. Edmonton 4, Los Angeles 3 St. Louis 4, Minnesota 3, OT, St. Louis the portrait of an uneducated first house and, later, a large
leads series 2-0 

man-child painted by lawyer lot north of Toronto. Johnson's earnings were placed 
Thursday's Results Calgary 5, Vancouver 2, series tied 1-1 
Edward Futerman. "Ben liked to act very quick­in a special trust fund managed 
Philadelphia 3, Washington 2, series Los Angeles 5, Edmonton 2, series tied 
Futerman has portrayed his ly," said Earl, a family friend by the Canadian Track and
tied 1-1 1-1 
27-year-old client as an impres-for 12 years. "He came back Field Association. 
Happy Birthday Becca 

Happy 21st 
Big Barr! 
Lisa, Mike Elaine 

P.S. We have tickets for the Sox-Yankees game!! 
' 
.... 
\ 
' 'I 

j 
' 
I 
j 
I 



. f!i I
Satnt Mary's Co ~~~ 
NOT R E 0 AM E • I N 0 I.-\ N A 
Dept. of Communication ~ Theatre Fall 1989 Classes 
Courses in Acting 
THTR 276 Intro to Acting 11:00-12: 15 TTTHTR 476 Playing Shakespeare 1:15-2:30 'IT 

General Theatre Courses 

THTR 135 Intro to Theatre 1:15-2:30 IT THTR 135 lntro to Theatre 2 : 45-4: 00 IT THTR 201 Play Analysis 11:15-12:05 MWF THTR 272 Theory & Practice 
of Tech. Theatre THTR 476 Playing Shakespeare 1:15-2:30 TT 
and 
Introducing a new team-taught 
interdisciplinary course. Shakespeare in Performance Prof. Roberta N. Rude, SMC Prof. Paul Rathburn, ND 
Admission by interview only. For information and appointment call 284-4&40. 

NEHT WEEK 
RT NUR • • • 
BIKE TOUR APRIL 16 
' 

TA I CHI CHURN AND SWORD APRIL 10 & 11 IRISH SPRING RUN APRIL 15 BIKE CLINIC APRIL 8 
APRIL 12 DEADLINES 
••• TERM TENNIS ••• PUTTING CONTEST ••• ••• OPEN SOCCER ••• 
Friday, April 7, 1989 The Observer page 15 
--~~~~--------------------------------------------~~ 

AP Photo Defending champion Sandy Lyle had a less-than-masterful round of 77 on the first day of The Masters Thursday. 
Trevino takes first-round lead 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. --Lee Trevino, stalking the green jacket that has eluded him for two decades, coaxed a 5-under­par 67 from gusty winds and took a one-shot lead Thursday in the opening round of the 53rd Masters. 
"Not bad for an old cripple," the 49-year-old Trevino said as he swaggered away from the 18th green at the Augusta Na­tional Golf Club, a course he once vowed he would never play again. 
Three times in the 1970s, he declined an invitation to this elite event. As late as last year, he said "I hope to God they don't send me an invitation. I don't want to be here.'' He still refuses to use the locker room, changing his shoes in the parking lot, because of discom­fort with the club's elitism. 
"I'm consistent; nothing has changed,'' Trevino responded when asked if the best round he ever shot at the Masters had altered his attitude about the course or the tournament. 
The bogey-free effort, which left him one stroke in front of former British Open champion Nick Faldo of England, came as a complete surprise, Trevino said. 
"I certainly didn't expect to play this well,'' said Trevino, who hasn't played a full schedule in seven seasons and became the oldest man ever to lead this tournament. 
But it was no surprise to his peers. 
''The only surprise is that he hasn't done it before," said Tom Kite. 
"I'm pulling for him," Tom Watson said. "He can play well anywhere. Lee wants to win this tournament." 
"I think it would be fabulous if Lee could play well and go on and win it," Jack Nicklaus said. 
Trevino agreed. 

"It would mean a lot. It would mean filling out the Grand Slam," said Trevino, who has won golf's other three major events --the U.S. and British Opens and the PGA 8 twice each. Only Gene Sarazen, Ben Hogan, Gary Player and Nicklaus have won them all. 
But any thoughts of acquir­ing the green jacket that goes to the Masters winner are premature, Trevino said. 
"I might shoot 80 the next three days, and it won't bother me a bit," he said. 
Brewer rookie hurls three-hitter against Indians 3-0 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND --Chris Bosw pitched a three-hitter and rookie Gary Sheffield hit a home run with two outs in the eighth inning to snap a score­less tie as the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Cleveland In­dians 3-0 on Thursday. 
Bosio, 1-0, earned his first victory as a starter since last May 16, striking out three and walking none. He got 14 Cleveland batters to hit into groundouts and retired the final 16 batters. 
A's 11, Mariners 3 

OAKLAND, Calif. --Glenn Hubbard's three-run homer capped a six-run third inning as the Oakland Athletics beat the Seattle Mariners 11-3 Thursday to sweep their season-opening series. 
Mark McGwire, Carney Lansford and Dave Parker each drove in two runs for Oak­land, which has won its first three games after taking its final seven in exhibition play. 
The defending AL champions dominated the lowly Mariners in the series, getting 34 hits and six home runs and outscoring them 25-6. 
Braves 3, Astros 2 
HOUSTON --Right-hander John Smoltz drove in a run with a triple and allowed six hits in eight-plus innings, leading the Atlanta Braves to a 3-2 victory over the Houston Astros Thursday night. 
Smoltz, 21, struck out seven and walked three before leaving with none out in the ninth and a runner on second. 
Kevin Bass led off the ninth with a single and Bill Doran fol­lowed with a run-scoring double to chase Smoltz. Joe Boever came on to retire the side for his second save in as many nights. Last season, the Braves failed to have consecu­tive saves. 
Phillies 8, Cubs 3 
CHICAGO --Chris James drove in four runs and Steve Ontiveros won his first Na­tional League game Thursday as the Philadelphia Philles defeated the Chicago Cubs 8-3. 
Ontiveros, who was signed as a free agent last Feb. 16 after being released by Oakland, al­lowed five hits in eight innings including Jerome Walton's first major-league homer. Steve Bedrosian pitched the ninth. 
Orioles 6, Red Sox 4 
BALTIMORE --Jose Bautista allowed six hits in eight innings and Phil Bradley's single snapped a fourth-inning tie Thursday night as the Bal­timore Orioles beat the Boston Red Sox 6-4 to sweep the two­games series. 

Baltimore, which began last season with 21 consecutive losses, had not won a home se­ries against Boston in 10 tries since Sept 5, 1983. Mickey Tet­tleton and Larry Sheets drove in two runs each for Baltimore, the only unbeaten team in the American League East. 
Twins 7, Yankees 1 
MINNEAPOLIS --Wally Backman and Kirby Puckett hit successive triples to high­light a five-run sixth inning and Shane Rawley allowed three hits in six innings in his Min­nesota debut Thursday as the Twins beat the New York Yankees 7-1. 
Both benches emptied in the ninth inning when Kent Hrbek charged the mound after reliever Dave Righetti threw a pitch high and inside. Hrbek was stopped by several players and neither player was ejected. 
Yankees · starter Dave LaPoint, who signed as a free agent for $2.575 million for three years in December, led 1-0 and had a perfect game throu h four innings until al­
lowing Gary Gaetti's leadoff double in the fifth. He then retired the next three batters before running into trouble in the sixth. 
Rangers 5, Tigers 4 

ARLINGTON, Texas --Nolan Ryan failed to get a decision in his debut with Texas Thursday night, but the Rangers beat the Detroit Tigers 5-4 as Rafael Palmeiro snapped a tie in the seventh inning with a run­scoring single. 
Ryan, who signed as a free agent with the Rangers last December for a guaranteed $2 million over two years, pitched five innings and allowed four runs, seven hits and three walks. He struck out eight to increase his all-time record to 4,783. 
Expos 3, Pirates 2 

MONTREAL --Otis Nixon doubled in two runs and Tim Wallach followed with a run­scoring single to cap a three­run rally in the eighth inning that carried the Montreal Ex­.. pos past the Pittsburgh Pirates 
page 16 The Observer Friday, April 7, 1989 

The Observer/Trey Reymond Mike Moshier builds his .419 on-base percentage against Illinois-Chicago Wednesday. 
Moshier leads way to success 
Senior-led Irish baseball visits struggling Xavier squad 


By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame baseball team prepares itself for a four­game series with MCC rival Xavier in Cincinnati, the Irish can feel fortunate that they have senior leadership. 
Xavier, like the Irish, has many freshmen on its team. The difference, however, is that the 6-18 Musketeers have too few senior role models. 
"We're up in the air right now," said Xavier Head Coach Larry Redwine. "We're not playing well, and we're start­ing four to six freshmen a game. The freshmen some days are good and some days are bad." 
The Irish give their freshmen a lot of playing time as well, but they also have several quality seniors that lead by ex­ample, like Pat Pesavento, James Sass, Erik Madsen. Mike Passilla and Mike Mos­hier. 
Moshier, a four-year starter at second base and co-captain with Pesavento, contributes his attitude and worth ethic above all else in aiding an impres­sionable Irish squad. 
"Coming into a program like this where a coach is as intense as coach MurpHy is, and as hard as we work," said Mos­hier, "I think it's encouraging for the freshmen to see the up­perclassmen work hard and set the example. We're teaching these kids how to win." 

j 
Teaching they are, as Irish ) are coming off a 39-22 season last year and have a 16-6 mark this year. The team's 39 wins last season were the most in
) 
I 
Notre Dame history. 

' 
Moshier places a great em­phasis on experience, and his 151 games played in his career makes his experience valu­able. 


"Having been around for four years and having played in as many games as I have, I think that helps," said Mos­': hier. ''I think it also helps to \ have upperclassmen in the 
I. field. We're going through a 
{. learning process right now and I hopefully they will learn from 
I . guys like myself and Pesavento 
·. 
and Sass. We'll help them to get better, and I think experi­ence is important, especially at this level.'' 
Head Coach Pat Murphy echoes this experience-lending function that Moshier lends. 
"Mike Moshier is a leader both with actions and words," said the second-year coach. "He's a true example of what it is to be a Notre Dame stu­dent. He makes the most of his ability, and that is what being a captain is all about. 
"His strengths are his work ethic and desire. He works hard. He is a competitor and a winner.'' ­
Entering this season Moshier had a .289 career average and 
a .431 on-base percentage. This year, after a slow start, he's hitting .261 with a .419 on-base percentage. 
Moshier's role on the team is to get on base and provide solid defense at second base. 
"Offensively I have to get on base, run the bases, and get the bunt down, and then have guys like Dan Peltier and Sass drive me home. 
"I got off to a slow start this year. Just recently I've started to swing the bat a little better and have some better at-bats, started to take my walks a little more, and that's going to help us when I'm on base." 
In the last five games, Mos-bier is 5-for-10 with five walks, and Notre Dame's record is 4-1. 

"I really like the way the course of the season has taken shape," said Moshier. "We've won 16 games and that's great, but we've struggled at times and have been inconsistent. The way things are taking shape, though, we're starting to get better, and I just see us getting better everyday so that by playoff time we'll be our best." 
ABOUT XAVIER: The Mus­keteers are currently encoun­tering a massive slump, losing their last 12 consecutive games to fall to 6-18. "Right now we stink," said Redwine ... Junior secondbaseman Pat Smith, who made the first team All­Conference for Xavier, has been benched by Redwine for disciplinary reasons. It is un­decided whether he will play against Notre Dame... How will Xavier beat Notre Dame? "We have to-play sound defense, we have to avoid pitch­ing to the strengths of their hit­ters like we did last year, and we can't make any silly mis­takes," said Redwine. "We've got to execute well, like you have to against any good team."... Notre Dame was 4-0 against Xavier last year and owns a 23-17 all-time record against the Musketeers. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
A federal grand jury on Thursday indicted Thomas Gioiosa, a former housemate of Cincinnati Reds manager Pete Rose, on charges of tax evasion and conspiracy to distribute cocaine from Florida to the Cincinnati area. Associated Press 
The Blue-Gold Game will be held Saturday, April 22, at 1:30 p.m. in the stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at gates 15 and 16. Spouses and children must have a ticket. General admission tickets for the public are available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday at gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Adult tickets are $3 in advance and $4 game day. Youth tickets are $1.50 in advance and $2 the day of the game. -The Observer 
A free synchronized swimming clinic will be offered Saturday, April 8, from 3:45 to 5:45 p.m. at Rockne Memorial Pool. The clinic is sponsored by ND!SMC Synchronized Swimming Club and anyone may participate. Call Dennis Stark at 239-5983 or Katie Boehling at 283-2646 for more information. -The Observer 
Squash Tournament sign-ups will be Thursday, April 13, at 5 p.m. in the NVA office for the tourney to be held Friday, April14 through Sunday, April 16. -The Observer 
A squash clinic featuring Pedro Galatas, the former No.2 junior in Spain, will be held Tuesday, April12, at 4:30 
p.m. on Joyce ACC courts 1 and 2. -The Observer 
Jordan Jam mer captains' meeting will be held Tuesday, Aprilll, at 7 p.m. at the Joyce ACC basketball courts. Bring team name and $3 if unpaid. Five teams are still needed. Call Z77-1180 for information. -The Observer 
lnterhall wrestling matches will be held Tuesday, April 11, at 7 p.m., in the Joyce ACC. Participants must attend a weigh-in Monday, April 10, at 6 p.m., in the N'VA office. -The Observer 
lnsilco Squash Tourney participants may pick up their t-shirts from Rich O'Leary at the NVA office. Please present name and t-shirt size. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on. the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Otis April7 Bill April12 
Happ)' Birthda}'! 
Love Mom, Dad &Ann 
' 


page 17
Friday, April 7, 1989 The Observer 



The Observer /Trey Reymond The Irish softball squad will be looking for a little more offense in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament this weekend. 
You're finally legal!! 
Happy 21st Trisha Power 
Love, Muf, Gi, Meg and all your other ugly friends 
MCC action may be remedy for softball's losing streak 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The softball team heads into the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference· Tournament today with losses in the last four games, including two losses at the hands of St. Francis College on Wednesday. 
The Irish were effectively shut down by St. Francis, total­ing just seven hits for the doubleheader. Two of Notre Dame's top pitchers collected losses as the team evened its record at 11-11. 
Head Coach Brian Boulac emphasized that the Irish played well, but were out­matched by a better softball team. 
"Obviously the results weren't what we wanted, but we did play well,'' he said. ''We hit the ball hard, but we hit it right at people." 
The Irish were shut out in the first game 3-0 on five hits. Only three runners reached third base. Senior captain Barb Mooney pitched her first com-
C'n' 1v~ 

.JH:.JtJ\iJ 


PRIME RIB , . \..
lo..JJ( ' 

SEAFOOD ~ ouse'
H 
RLST.AVRAJvr 

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 
plete game of the season for the team, allowing three earned runs, but they were enough for a victory for St. Francis. 
In the second game, the Irish jumped out to a 2-0 lead in the top of the first inning before dropping a 3-2 decision. 
Shortstop Ruth Kmak led off the first with a single, ad­vanced on Megan Fay's single, and was driven home by center fielder Rachel Crossen. Fay scored on a wild pitch, but that was the extent of the Irish of­fense for the day. 
Amy Raczkowski started the game for Notre Dame in an ef­fort to spread out the pitching duties, but was relieved in the fifth inning by Missy Linn. Linn 00-6) lost the game after an unearned run scored on two consecutive Notre Dame er­rors. 
The Irish head into the MCC Tournament with a four-game losing streak, but Boulac is op­timistic about his team's chances in the Tournament. 
"We've been struggling the last couple of games," he 

5 li 
ty ng 

531 N.Michigan St. Phone 233-4957 
noted, "but I feel strongly that we definitely can play beyond that." 
One important asset for the Irish is the experience they have against most of the other teams in the MCC. Notre Dame has played all but St. Louis this season, and owns a 6-3 record against conference opponents. · Notre Dame will begin the tournament with a game against Butler on Friday at Metropolitan Softball Stadium in Indianapolis. The Irish swept the Bulldogs in a doubleheader at Butler earlier this season. 
The winner of the Notre Dame-Butler game will play the winner of the Detroit­Evansville game on Saturday. 
Both teams  have lost  to  the  
Irish this year.  
The  tournament  is  double  

elimination. If the Irish stay in the winner's bracket, they will have to win only four games to win the MCC. 
"I think all of the teams are very equally matched and anybody could win it,'' Boulac said. "If we play like we played earlier in the year against the same opponents, we'll do okay,'' 
Missy Linn will be the start­ing pitcher for the team in the first game, and probably con­tinue to start as long as the Irish remain in contention. Boulac added that Mooney and 
Raczkowski will have to be ready to fill in if needed. 
On offense, Notre Dame is 
~~~2~19~-~2~59~-~9~92~5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d by R~hcl Cro~en, who 
~~~~!Ill••••• 
leads the team in batting
CLUBS & ORGANIZATION3 
average, Ruth Kmak and 
All clubs & organizations must now re-register 
Laurie Sommerlad. 

for the 1989-90 academic year. Applications 
\leneedsomeone with 

are now available .in the Student Activities Office, 
theronfidenceofa~ 3rd Floor LaFortune. Applications include: 
thededicationof-
amarathoner andthe
1) Registration Form 
rourage ofanexplorer.
2) Funding Request 

3) Office Space Request 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer Call usaol-800-424-8580. Ext. R

4) Football Concession Stand Request 
PeaceCorps. 
llw ........,.......l ........

Applications deadline is APRIL 19. 
N :I 
I I ',1 '\) D 
'D ,I
N· 
I 

~ II.
10 ·I: D
,I N "' 
',I ,I N 
I
t) I{ 
I

t' N I N ,/ ,.,
Don't miss this 
'\) lr
0 'IJ D
,I, 
N
golden opportunity 
I· 
N
D

to save on a Balfour 
II 
I 
D II

College Class Ring! 
.\. 
N
~

• $300FF10K • $500FF14K 
When it rains, it pours !
• $700FF 18K Hurry! Offered for a 
Spring Special
limited time only! 
SCREEN PRINTED 
See your Balfour Representative 
T·SHIRTS
Monday April lOth 11-4:30 
Haggar College Center Gan1e Roon1 
15% 011!
Special" JuniQr Mon1s" Weekend April 8, 12-3 in the Game Room. 
UMBRELLA GRAPHICS 
P.O. BOX 928 

NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
234•455&1

~rr
\I w 
Friday, April 7, 1989
page 18 The Observer
)f
)\ 
\\ 
t Irish lacrosse 'cautious' hosting Kenyon 
I.\ 
I 
') \ . Corrigan keeps 
\l' \\l)\
\\ goalie change 
F' By PETE LaFLEUR \1: Sports Writer
\)\
\\~ 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team
\t 
,1_~ 
enters Saturday's game with Kenyon
\\' 
College at Krause Stadium with a four­'\w game winning streak and a serious ~< degree of caution. \'\/ The Irish (4-3) face off against the I· Lords at 1:30 p.m. in their third of onlyII i four home games. Notre Dame holds 
an 8-0 series edge over Kenyon but is\\,, \ coming off a sluggish 8-7 win over \\\ Wooster College last week. Against\I; Kenyon, the Irish know they can ill af­
ford any mental lapses . 

h • 
"I think we've put the Wooster game ') behind us. We know we didn't play that well," said senior tri-captain Kevin
~~R 
O'Connor.~~: "We realize that Kenyon is a team\' that is hungry, and they'll be looking\ for their first win ever against us. They 
'~I 
consider this to be one of their best teams ever, so we'll have to be ready." 
\''
()\\ The Lords, who routed Wooster 17-6 ~ \~ Wednesday, are led by attackmen )\) Terry Martin and Jeff Alpaugh. In Notre Dame's 8-7 win at Kenyori last year, Martin scored four goals while
\l\: ·1: 
l_ ,·-
Alpaugh dished out three assists for the 
.! ~ l 
Division III squad. shoulder," said Corrigan. "You can't we could." with 127 career points. With six games 
): 
In that game, Kenyon scored four have him ·worrying that every time the the depth of the Irish defense should remaining, he now sets his sights on
\\ 
second half goals to overcome a 5-2 ball goes in he might be coming out (of help his performance. 1985 graduate Bob Trocchi's 143 points.
)~
), Irish halftime lead and force two over­the game). "In my first start, I was really ner-Beyond that is all-time leader 1986 
time periods. Irish senior tri-captain "We may make a change (at goalie) vous, but I think by getting that out of graduate Joe Franklin, who tallied 161v John Olmstead scored for the Irish in eventually, but we'll cross that bridge the way (starting) it shouldn't be as career points.\' the second overtime to give Notre when we come to it." tough," Duane said. 
Dame the win. Corrigan said that the Irish started "Kenyon is definitely a good team Olmstead is not the only Notre Dame 
Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan said Duane, despite three straight wins, be-and, since I'm only a freshman, I would player climbing up the career scoring
l 
\ ,, ~ Sunday that freshman Tom Duane will cause of what he saw as a lack of prog-have to rely on the veterans we have list. Junior attackman Brian McHugh start his second consecutive game in ress. on defense if I start," he continued. entered the season fifteenth on the list 
r•i 
\ \ goal. Duane started ahead of junior Jeff "We've kept telling the team that our "Kenyon shoots a lot and goes to the with 40 career points. But his 14 goals 
)\ }1 
Glazier, who had started the previous intention is to improve every game, and cage a lot, so we'll really have to be in and 6 assists this season have vaulted ·)\, six games, in the victory over Wooster. we felt we couldn't 'stand pat,' " Cor-the game mentally." him into eleventh all-time. At that pace, \· Duane made eight saves on 24 Wooster rigan said. "Jeff Glazier is a hard Duane said that, should he start, the McHugh could finish the year in 
\'
\ shots. worker and has a great attitude, but we experience of the Wooster game and seventh place and make a charge at "Goalie is not a position where you just felt we could get more out of the Olmstead moved into third on the all-the fourth all-time spot his senior
{! 
want someone looking over his position, and we made the only change time Irish scoring list against Wooster season. 

') ,.;., 
J ' Sox
\ '. ~ . 
continued from page 20

\ 
\ i Minor league baseball is for v the fans as well as for farming. 
\\ 
., It's a little easier for a fan to 
get an autograph from Kinnis 

Pledger or Ed Smith than it is ))!.+ from Orel Hersheiser or Andre '\ Dawson. You never know, 
't ·, 
):.:, 
though, which of the South

,J; 
Bend White Sox will be the next \ l major league star. Although
f : 
) j 
such hero worship is a lot less 

),.'­
prevalent among college stu­

).l 
dents than grade school kids,

};· 
the games are still exciting. 

\ \ 
In the Sox home opever last season, an enthusiastic 

n \ 
~ '{ 
FREE

. ·~ 
? 
·.~. 
TANNING 

) ,; ) 
j j 
l 
.i 
\! 
·----------,

1 • Buy 4* sessions at the regular 1 I price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA7
L---------___J1 
Mtshawaka Indian Ridge Plaza 
(Next to Venture) Hours: Daily 9-8 
Grape Rd. Sat. 9-6 
277-7946 Sun. 11-5 
Coveleski crowd watched their new team defeat the Cub fran­chise Peoria Chiefs 2-1 behind Curt Hasler's three-hitter. Sox pitcher Mike Girouard pitched the team's first no-hitter on Au­gust 15 of last year. 
South Bend fans responded to the excitement; the attendance at Coveleski was 173,888 for the season, second only to the Chiefs in the Midwest League. 

The Sox are in the North Divi­sion of the League, along with the Rockford Expos, Madison Muskies, Kenosha, Beloit Brewers, Appleton Foxes and Wausau Timbers. 
Competing in the Southern 
~-----·...·--·--·..-..~·-·-·­
Europe! This Summer 
Your Europe Travel Center!
I 


-~~ Lowest airfares to Europe
I 

Eurail passes, rail information 1 VISA assistance I Assistance with tours, Individual I
I I
itineraries, hotels, student travel 
Division are the Springfield Cardinals, Peoria, Cedar Rapids Reds, Clinton Giants, Waterloo Diamonds, Quad City Angels and Burlington Braves. 
Most games start at 7 p.m., some weekend. afternoon games at 2. The Sox are home throught most of April, and tickets range from $3-$5 dol­lars. 
• LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL • 
ACCEPTING RESERVATIONS FOR NATIONAL CONFERENCE MAY 12, 13, 14 AND NOTRE DAME GRADUATION 

• (219)234-4063 •
I I 
_.._.,_ -·--­
I

L______ 
~_:t~:;~i~~ __j 

The Observer 

\~ 

THE STORY OF THE IRISH CLADDAGH 
The Irish Claddagh story began in the 16th Century when Richard Joyce, a native of Galway was captured by Algerian Cosairs while on his way to the West Indies . He was sold as a slave to a wealthy Moorish Goldsmith who trained him In the craft. His master took a great liking to him and offered him his freedom which Richard very happily accepted. He returned to his native county and settled down in the ancient village of Claddagh, just outside Galway city, where he designed and made the first Claddagh. 
The deslgn of the Irish Claddagh is simple, but yet unique: The Hand Signifies Friendship, 
The Crown Loyalty, 
And The Heart Love. The Irish Claddagh, because of its tradition and design grows daily in popularity and is being used internationally as a token,of great friendship and love. 
Call in & see our Fine Collection of Claddagh Jewelry at University Park Mall (Opposite Midlady Shop) 
Tel 272-6757 


Friday, April 7, 1989 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
FRIDAY 

ACROSS 29 Puncheons 55 Strutter 2 p.m. NO Women's Tennis vs. Ohio State, Courtney Courts. 33 Something. 56 Accomplished
1 Loyal 
spec1al 
57 Wan 5 Judicious

7:30 p.m. NO Collegiate Jazz Festival, Stepan Center. 35 Forest tree 
59 Adjective not 9 Grouch 
36 Toxophilite's 

describing most13 Cub1c decimeter delight
7:30 & 9:30 p.m. NO Communication & Theatre Film, "Wings fraternal twins of Desire," Annenberg Auditorium. 15 Socialism 39 Plant also called 
60 Swervefounder satinpod 61 Memento of a 16 Big Island city_ 40 Vandykes SATURDAY sort 17 Pianist Claudio 41 Cite 62 Abdui-Jabbar, 

11:30 a.m. NO Collegiate Jazz Festival, Stepan Center. 18 Put forth 42 Talk-show 
e.g.
hostess rivaling
19 Speck 

Phil 63 Former spouses
7:30 p.m. NO Collegiate Jazz Festival, Stepan Center. 
20 Capistrano 
43 Quail in fear 64 Unabridged
denizen 

44 Cook's abbr. dictionary, e.g. 22 Semitrailer hauler 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 47 President 65 Partner of 
24 Industrialist 
Zhivkov's capital feathers 
Henry 

49 European 25 Pile up
12:15-1 p.m. "Communalism, Minorities & Nation States in peninsula 
26 Together: Prefix DOWN
the Middle East,'' by Patrick Gaffney, assistant professor of 52 Late light meal in Anthropology. Center for Social Concerns. 27Wagon Brighton 
1 Lab vessels 2 Route to Heathrow
2 p.m. Friends of the Snite Museum Lecture, "Hollywood and 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
the Stars," by Brenda Madden, Snite Museum Staff. Print 
3 Participate in a 

" 
tug of war

Galley of the Snite. 
4 Pond ducks 
5 Merganser
4 p.m. "The Struggle of Women in Appalachia," by Barbara 
6 Modern 23 Poet's metrical 34 Furious 44 Triumvirate 
Green of the Eastern Tennessee Women's Mountain Ex­
weapon: Abbr. consideration 45 Squabble
35 Mays or Mantle
change. Center for Social Concerns. 
7 Resolute 25 Settled down in 1951 46 Old World falcons
8 Surplus 28 Charles of 36 Blood groups
musical fame 48 Spread 9 Blackcap
MENUS 30 Emergency 37 Status: Slang 50 Jezebel's deity 
1 0 Donnybrook 51 Fanfaresignal 38 La Salle or11 Lowest female 31 Shrub that might Mercer 52Possess
Notre Dame Saint Mary's voice 53 Wild goat
be Krazy 39 Ephthalite

Sausage Pepper Grinder Herb Fried Chicken ~;;:;...+,;~~--+=~ 12 A tusker 32 Something we 54 HilarityCatfish Alabama Spinach Deli Bar 8=+=-+-~ 14 Precept all look up to 41 In the capacity 55 This stack'll Salisbury Steak Beef Stroganoff ~:-+:-:+=i 21 These may be 33 Mockingbirds' of crackle Mushroom Stroganoff Savory Rice holy cousins 43 Total disaster sa Gammon, e.g. 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
SO FllfST I GJT IN ~UB\.£ 
toR NCr PMING A-m.N\\ON IN ClASS AN\) ~ i\JR.~l~G IN f:.. I.J>.Sr· M\~1.}1t I~SEC..t CDLLEC.TlaN, ~\\le\.\ l GO\ 
1\. 0-MI~~­~tt\l<;" QN . 


BLOOM COUNTY 
.rM5€KW5... rrs 17W£. 
I1NlJ Y()(JU MY,

YOV'K6 &!liNING IN A YeAR !U 
5AY, "If()~_/ 
··,xwRY, ffJRT,,. I'f? 1?117H€R
II CH!LP IINC1 Im {.05/N& !11Y ~6T t.ET'6 &0 
5TAY 1011f IIN/7 Vf!l£071/f'£5 8(/Pf?Y. /A/!NCJ­
MYK/!7'9 f!R61 VOMmNG. ,, 
6(/KF!N&/" 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Three Sessions: 
Friday Night 7:30pm Sat. Afternoon 11 :30am Sat. Night 7:30pm 
Special Guest Band: 
U. of Illinois Jazz Band 

festivaI Ticket:3 ct LaFortune Info Friday & Saturday April 7th&8th 

BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BERKE BREATHED 

"81ast'.... The elephants are sick again!" 
.. 
starting monday: 

Apartheid Awareness Week 
Mon April tO Wed April 12 
film" Witness To Apartheid" film: "Cry Freedom" 7pm esc 8 & 10:15pm Cushing talk: Ezra Sigwela 
former llyr prisonerin S Africa 
Thurs April 13 Tues April 11 discussion with Divestment Panel Discussion Mr. Donald Woods featuring Prof. Peter Walshe, author of "Biko" ,"Asking for Desk Dean.David Link, Prof. James Trouble" -basis for film Cry Freedom 8pm Cushing
Carberry 7pm Library Aud $2 tickets LaFortune Info De~k 
By GREG GUFFEY sion Seekers' 21-17 win over the Assistant Sports Editor Null Hypothesis. Presley's absence forced his The Air Force needed some team to play with four players. 

' ,,. help from a Navy captain to ad­The team will continue to play vance to the round of 512, as with four players during the action continued Thursday in remainder of the tourney -­Bookstore Basketball XVIII. unless Elvis makes an appear­
Air Force ROTC defeated ance. Ollie North Fan Club, a group Overall, it was a relatively of Navy ROTC men with four uneventful day. Fourteen Marine options. games were decided by 10 or 
The irony in the 21-13 victory more baskets and several was that Air Force ROTC used teams and individuals put in George Dewhirst, a Navy cap­Hoosier award-winning perfor­tain. Dewhirst is in charge of mances. members of Ollie North Fan Club off the court. In a game that featured a 
Dewhirst, who agreed to play total of 196 attempted shots, with Air Force ROTC when an­Sex edged We Play Better Than other team member had prior Digger Coaches 21-19. The win­commitments, scored three ners were 21-of-115 from the points in the win. field, while the losers con­
"It was kind of ironic," nected on 18-of-81 shots. Dewhirst said. "I thought it The Creamy Cucumbers hit was a pretty good game. It was 7-of-65 shots in a 21-7 drubbing fun to win a Bookstore game." at the hands of Help! Can't Buy 
Houston Oiler coach Jerry Me Love, The Night Before, Glanville left tickets for Elvis Norwegian Wood, Girl. The Presley during games last fall, Juice Crew was 5-of-39 in its 21-5 but maybe he should have setback to The Pelican Punis­asked him to play. Elvis signed hers. in --but did not show up on the court--in Dr. Love and the Pas-C'Mon Goat Take the Shirt 
Minor league opener a welcome attraction 
If Wrigley Field is too far away and Jake Kline Field is too cold, baseball fans ,can make the short but exciting trip to downtown South Bend to see the South Bend White Sox in action at Coveleski Stadium. 
Theresa Kelly 
Sports Editor 


The Sox are a Class A farm team for the Chicago White Sox and are managed by Rick Patterson. This Midwest League squad opens its season Friday at 7 p.m. against the Kenosha Twins. 
Minor league baseball is not just for fans of the parent team. And it's a good thing, too, because there aren't a whole lot of Chicago White Sox fans anymore. 
Some minor league teams are for real prospects on the fast track to the major leagues, while some are for players who really don't have a chance of promotion and are basi­cally playing out their careers in the minors. A few are combinations of both, balancing experience with draft picks to win games as well as cultivate young talent. 
The Sox, given their player turnover and youth, may be a fast-track team. Last season, the average age of the players was about 19, and only six of last year's players are on this season's roster · 
see SOX I page 18 

Navy fills in for Air Force 
ROTC battle highlights another round of Bookstore 
~---~---~--· --------------------------~------~ 
Sports
page 20 Friday, April 7, 1989 
Women's tennis hosts Big Ten powers without Doran 
By BARB MORAN number-one girl is a big server­Kristy, but I believe we have the Notre Dame pfayers can Sports Writer and-volleyer. She's a tough, the depth to do it," said also expect strong competition strong girl who will give us a Gelfman. "It's hard though -­from rival Michigan State. 
A tough weekend is in store lot of competition." we had to switch all the doubles "Michigan State is always a for the Notre Dame women's In addition to singles, teams around. It's difficult very solid team, start to tennis team as it tries to over­Gelfman expects a strong chal­when these girls have been finish," said Gelfman. "Their come an injury and prepares lenge from Ohio State in the playing together all this time, personnel is strong. It should to host Big Ten powers Ohio doubles matches. to switch them around in the be a good matchup." · State on Friday and Michigan "Their number-one doubles home stretch of the season. But As the Irish team near the State on Sunday. team is very strong," said we've had a lot of luck with our end of their season, they are 
Notre Dame 02-4) has won Gelfman. ''This should be a doubles combinations, and already looking down the road eight consecutive matches. very exciting doubles match -­we're sure it will work out.'' to the NCAAs. The Irish expect a strong probably our best doubles com­Gelfman will depend on her "We have a lot of things we showing from Ohio State to­petition of the year.'' number-one doubles team of want to do, a lot of goals to morrow, according to Coach Notre Dame, noted for its CeCe Cahill and Tracy Barton, shoot for, and one of those goals Michele Gelfman. strong doubles play, may which is currently ranked 14th is the NCAA tournament," said 
"The Big Ten is a very tough encounter some difficulties this in the nation, to bear the brunt Gelfman. "Everybody is posi­conference, period," said weekend, as player Kristy of the doubles competition. tive and up and ready to play Gelfman. "Ohio State's Doran is out for the rest of the Looking forward to Sunday, the rest of the season." 
Off shot a dismal 5-of-49 in its 
21-5 spanking at the hands of 
Dan Quayle, Jane Fonda and 3 
Other Guys Who Did Nothing 
for the Vietnam War. 

On the other end of the shoot­ing spectrum, Mike Newlon was a perfect eight-for-eight from the field in Pontius Pilate's Nail-Driving 5's 21-6 rout of With a Canuck and a Short Italian How Good Can We Be'? Evidently, they were not very good. 
The Primitive Bushmen be­came the only team to lose twice in this year's tourney, fal­ling 21-16 to 4 People John Likes and the Red Witch. The Primi­tive Bushmen lost the Hall of Fame Game Sunday afternoon. 
NOTES: South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan will coach "Alive With Pride" in its game this afternoon at 4 p.m. on Stepan 1... Seeded teams will begin action next week as the prelim­inary round ends Friday... Defending champ Adworks begins play next Sat­urday at 2: 15 on Lyons 12. 
Irish tee off at IU Invitational 
Tournament marks· 2nd outing for infant varsity team 
By KEVIN KERNS Roberta Bryer, Pandora improving the men's golf team, Sports Writer Fecko and. Heidi Hanson will coached by GeQrge Thomas. 
be joined by Kristine Kolesar Hanlon understands this, and 
The Notre Dame women's and Allison Wojnas to round out hopes that the ladies will also golf team travels to the Irish lineup. Kolesar led the have their turn. Bloomington this weekend to Irish in scoring average during "It may be awhile before we participate in the Indiana Invi~ the fall, while the promising get better," said Hanlon, "but tational. The Irish will tee it up Wojnas joined the team this hopefully we'll continue to on the Indiana University spring. Senior Kerri Wagner, show improvement." Championship Golf Course the other co-captain, will not The program has no scholar­against an impressive field, in­make the trip this weekend, but ships to grant, while most Irish cluding perennial Big Ten intends to play at Ohio State opponents carry 4-6 scholar­powers Michigan, Purdue, and the following week. ship players. Indiana. The Indiana Invitational 
Starting his fourth year as marks the second outing for the The program took a big step Irish mentor, Coach Tom Han­Irish this season. Last week in last fall, when Notre Dame lon is realistic about his team's the Lady Greyhound Invita­hosted its first ever varsity chances against such strong tional at Indianapolis, the Irish tournament. Western Ken­opposition. placed third in the five-team tucky captured the champion­
"We're facing a tough field. Seniors Wagner and ship, which was held at the group," he said. "We may be Carolyn Burke were to·ps for much-improved Burke at the end of the pack. the Irish, shooting 90 and 91, Memorial Golf Course. The However, our girls are capable respectively. course is in excellent condition of posting some decent The Irish golfers reached this year, largely due to the scores." varsity status just last fall, and work of course supervisor Dale 
The Irish will send six golfers Hanlon, a member of Notre Getz and his staff. to challenge the rain soaked Dame's 1944 championship course in Bloomington. Senior team, knows that upgrading The Irish women will take to co-captain Melissa Houk leads the program won't be easy and the road again next weekend, a group which includes three it won't happen overnight. The travelling to Columbus for the sophmores and two freshmen. University has committed to Ohio State Invitational. 








