
r-------------------------~~--------~----------------------------~------._~-----.----.. -----------------------~ 

VOL. XXIII NO. 40 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1989. 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Book thieves nabbed in stakeout 
Security rapidly coordinates tips from diverse sources 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Investigators from Security from a car traveling east on Assistant News Editor had a stakeout on Douglas Douglas Hoad away from Hoad near the Notre Dame Highway 31, said Hurley. Bur­
Notre Dame Security arrested Federal Credit Union where 
rell described the car to Secu­two individuals Wednesday and they thought the car might rity and turned in the bookbag.
charged them with class D pass, said Johnson. 
Security was able to make an felony for bookbag theft. Security sighted a car meeting arrest based on Burrell's de­
According to Phil Johnson, the description and eventually scription of the car, said John­
assistant director of Security, stopped the car off of South son. the investigation began after Bend Avenue at the 1100 Block Joseph Anthony Husband, 21 someone from a local book­of E. Duey Street, said Chuck and Lisa Husband, 28, both store called Security saying IIurley, assistant director of residents of South Bend, were that they believed that someone Security. charged with class D felony, he had sold the store potentially At the same time Father said. stolPn books. The store gave a David Burrell, professor of 
The bookbag belonged to a description of the people and philosophy/theology, told Secu­their ear. rity he saw a bookbag thrown see THEFT I page 4 
Aftershocks shake N. California 
Associated Press 
San francisco as a tentative timated earlier at 250, Craw­city tried to recover and re­ford said. 
SAN FHANCISCO--Three group following Tuesday's strong aftershocks rattled a jit­earthquake, which claimed an Many people left work early tPry Northern California on estimated 270 lives and $2 bil­to watch the third game of the Thursday, and rescuers who lion in damage. World Series, scheduled to found fewer cars than feared At the 1 1/4-mile stretch of start at 5:30 p.m., and 60,000 undPr a collapsed frPeway said the collapsed double-deck In­people already were across the the World Series may have re­terstate 880, the Nimitz Free­bay in San Francisco at Candle­duced the rush-hour traflic. way in Oakland, workers cut stick Park when the quake 
"Maybe we got lucky because holes in concrete and used struck at 5:04 p.m. of thP gamP," Oakland police cranes to pull out pancake-flat The World Series will resume Sgt. Bob Crawford said. cars. Hescuers reported finding Tuesday at Candlestick Park in "Normally at 5 o'c.lock in the the cars as far apart as 60 feet, San Francisco. afternoon this an•a would be rather than bumper-to-bumper bumpPr-to-bumper. Maybe the as had been feared, Assistant Oakland Mayor Lionel Wilson World Series saved our lives." Fire Chief AI Sigwart said. said Thursday that only 85 
Pow1•r and commuters re­That could lower the death people were officially reported turned to much of downtown toll in the highway rubble -es-missing. 
Student Gov't hosts first Catholic· universities meeting 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER group, including the size of the in an open and responsive fo­colleges. their education. Assistant News Editor association, member schools, rum on issues of concern to "Students have had, and "We hope to educate students and the purpose of the associa­those enrolled in Catholic insti­should presently have a voice in on a topic, help add to the 
Studnnt government hosted tion. tutions of higher education," society," said Kinkopf," and debate, and come to an thP first regional meeting of the NAS.C.C.U. is the only asso­reads the group's mission this new group should give a understanding of the topic," newly-formed National Associ­ciation of its kind, according to statement. unified voice to students across said Kinkopf. ation of Students at Catholic Student Body Vice President Kinkopf said that the associ­the country who attend Catholic The first issue to be handled Coll1~ges and Universities Dave Kinkopf, who had a pri­ation was not formed to delve colleges." by the N.A.S.C.C.U. will be aca­(N.A.S.C.C.U.) this past week­mary role in the founding of the into student government issues, Education is important, said demic freedom, Kinkopf said. It end. the group. like a student government, but Kinkopf, and another major is timely, since the Vatican is 
The meeting dealt with the "The National Association of­to address student issues, form goal of the N.A.S.C.C.U. is to currently working on a similar establishing of some ground­Students at Catholic Colleges a cohesive opinion, and give inform students of issues which 
see NATIONAU page 8 

work for the newlv-formed and universities unites students voice to students at Catholic directly influence them and 

AP Photo 
A lone motorcyclist rides below the collapsed decks of the 1-880 free­way in Oakland Wednesday morning. At least 200 are estimated dead from the collapse, which occurred when the Bay Area was hit by a 7.0 
earthquake Tuesday. 


The Observer/Chris Radzik
Snowball anyone? 
The Notre Dame Stadium rests peacefully under a white blanket Thursday, anticipating a much-needed thaw for Saturday's game against USC. 
San Francisco donations will be collected at game 

By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Copy Editor 
Donations for the San Francisco earthquake vic­tims will be collected by Red Cross volunteers at the ND/USC game Saturday. 
Volunteers with collection cans will be stationed at the entrance gates and in the parking lot, and will have Red Cross symbols on their clothing to identify them. 
In general, organizations are not permitted to collect money at Notre Dame foot­ball games. 
"It's an exception to the rule." said D.K. Bell, a Red Cross employee. "This is a unique situation, that they're allowing us to collect. Be­cause we're playing Southern Cal, and because of the earthquake, it's appropriate." 
He said that if organiza­tions were allowed to ask for donations on a regular basis, it would become ha­rassment. 
Becky Baumann, also a Red Cross employee, said that there are a number of Notre Dame students who are Red Cross volunteers. She encouraged students with plans for helping the earthquake victims to con­tact the Red Cross, who would give them support. 
"We would. welcome any­one's help." she said. 
Warren Desouza, president of the San Francisco Bay Club, said the club would not be able to provide any aid to victims now, as the club is not yet recognized or funded by the University, and is still in the 
see CROSS I page 7 


-----~---------~----~ 

page 2 The Observer Friday, October 20, 1989 
wp:~~:;~·:::. II and p,.,ident Mikhail Go,baohcv will I Football tradition and spirit 
meet during the Soviet leader's Nov. 29-Dec. 1 visit to Vatican 

l•s common g--o nd t m 
I

~ity_. The histori~ meeting will be the first between the head of t~e I u 0 any
Soviet Commumst Party and the leader of the Roman Catholic 
Church, a Vatican report said Thursday. 
A marine musician injured in last month's bombing at the Royal Marines Music School barracks has died, bringing the death toll from the blast to 11, the Ministry of Defense said Thursday in London. The Irish Republican Army claimed responsibility for the bombing, which has left three people hospitalized, one in very serious condition. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Six-and-one-half years in prison for a murder and robbery he did not commit earned a New York man $1.5 million in damages Wednesday. Hobert McLaughlin, 30, was also awarded $225,000 in medical expenses due to a dependency on drugs and alcohol that was intensified by his prison experience. 
A storm blitzed the Midwest with up to 6 inches of snow Thursday, causing power outages to more than 175,000 cus­tomers in Ohio, Indiana and Michigan. It was the earliest snowfall on record for many cities, including Cincinnati, Dayton, Ohio, In­dianapolis and St. Louis. In many places, the snow followed unusually balmy weekend weather in the upper 70s and low 80s. 

INDIANA BRIEFS 
The sale of alcoholic beverages will be prohibited in Gary for the 12-hour period while polls are open in the city's Nov. 4 referendum on casino gambling, the Alcoholic Beverage Commission said Thursday. Indiana law prohibits alcohol sales during general and primary elections, and the commission said it believes the Legislature intended the same prohibition to apply to special elections. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
A University of Illinois student was arrested for stealing a wallet at the Alumni/Senior Club on Friday, Oct. 13 at 12:3Q a.m., said Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. He was charged with class D felony and the wallet was recovered as well as $150 in cash. 
A campus-wide snowball fight Thursday left a Ca­vanaugh resident with facial cuts and three stitches in his ear. Eric Brown was watching the activity through a closed window on the third floor of Cavanaugh when a snowball hurled from below shattered the window, he said. The incident, which occurred around 10 p.m., sent Brown to the infirmary and to St. Joseph's Medical Center for stitches. Notre Dame Security was unable to confirm the injury. 
OF INTEREST 
The spirit of Notre Dame is alive and well in South Bend today as a particular fan realizes a dream and millions of fans prepare to watch the ND-USC game tomorrow. 
Tomorrow, a special fan will be at Notre Dame Stadium cheering on the Irish as they beat USC. His name is Sully Sullivan and his trip is the culmination of a lifelong dream. Since Sul­livan was a boy he has dreamed of seeing ND play at Notre Dame Stadium, especially against 

usc. 

He said his first encounter with Notre Dame was in the early 1940's when he was six or seven. Sullivan was at a train station with his father when the Notre Dame team stopped en route to Southern California. He said the players tossed him around and autographed his foot­ball. His love affair with the University began that day and tomorrow will show it. 
Since that day Sullivan followed the team over the years in the newspapers, on the radio and on TV. He also met a former USC football player while in the service. For several years the player got Sullivan tickets for the ND-USC game right in the middle of the SC student section. He said he wore all his ND attire and cheered his lungs out, much to the dismay of the fans around him. He loved going to the games, but really wanted to come to Notre Dame. 
This year Sullivan met a man who ultimately made his dream a reality. While vacationing in the Caribbean he and his wife met Greg Szatko, a 1972-3 ND football player, and his wife. Sza­tko's wife noticed Sullivan as he was wearing an array of ND clothing. During the vacation the couples talked and Sullivan said he told Szatko about his dream and his inability to get ND tickets in the past. 
A month ago Sullivan said he received an enve­lope with tickets in them, but soon discovered that they were void. Two weeks later he received another set of void tickets. Finally he received the real things. He got two tickets to see ND play USC. 
Sullivan said that he has a list of feats he would like to accomplish in his lifetime and this weekend he can check one off the list. He said his list has some feats similiar to the list that Coach Lou Holtz's goals. "I just wanted to see Notre Dame play; he wanted to coach them," said Sullivan. 
Sullivan said he was walking a foot off the ground when I talked to him at his office in Cali­


'His name is Sully Sullivan and his trip is the culmination of 
a lifelong dream.' 
Kelley Tuthill Assistant News Editor 
fornia. I'm sure he'll be even happier when he sees ND crush USC tomorrow. 
I know of some other fans in South Bend that 
will be cheering for Notre Dame tomorrow. 
These are guests of the Center for the Homeless. 
I know they'll be watching because I cheered 
with them last weekend during the Air Force 
game. 

I had originally volunteered without realizing that the game coincided with the time I was to be at the shelter. My friend and I arrived at the shelter at the beginning of the second half of the game. We sat down uncomfortably among the homeless men who were watching the game in front of a big-screen color TV. Our presence was definitely noticed and we basically watched the game in silence. 
Soon we felt welcome as we realized we were among fellow fans. I didn't think that I would have much in common with a group of homeless men, but I did. We had a common interest: we all loved Notre Dame football. I was glad to be there with these people; I knew I was among friends. 
I Jove the winning spirit of ND as much as these men do. I am happy to have Notre Dame in common with these people. I welcome Sully Sullivan to Notre Dame and I know the campus and the games will live up to his expectations. And for the men in the shelter, I know that you will be watching and I wish you could watch the game on my turf this weekend -I enjoyed being on yours. 
Most of all. Notre Dame, let's show them that the spirit is indeed alive and well in South Bend this weekend. 
Kelley Tuthill is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. The views expressed are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Grace Hall 24-hour benefit relay for the Northeast Neighborhood will be run from 1 p.m. today to 1 p.m. Saturday. Donations will be accepted at the main tent. 
Glee Club open rehearsal is today from 4:45 to 6 p.m. in Crowley Hall of Music. 
Mass will be held in Stepan Center and the Crypt one-half hour after the game on Saturday. Sunday Mass at Stepan Center will be held at 10 and 11 :45 a.m. 
WEATHER 
Wanner 
Cold today with an 80 percent chance of light snow. Highs around 40. Cloudy and cold Friday night with a 50 percent chance of light snow mainly in the evening. Lows in the lower to mid­dle 30s. Clearing and warmer Saturday. Highs in the lower 50s. 


ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On October 20: 
Closings for October 19, 1989 

e In 1944: During World War II, Gen. Douglas MacArthur stepped ashore at Leyte in the Philippines, 2 1/2 years after 
Volume in shares 
he'd said, "I shall return." Said 198.12 Million MacArthur: "I have returned." e In 1947: Hollywood came under scrutiny as the House 
NYSE Index

Committee on Un-American 
192.17 tt2.85

Activities opened hearings in 
S&P Composite

Washington into alleged com­
347.13 tt5.37

munist influence and infiltra­
Dow Jones Industrials 

tion in the movie industry. 
2,683.20 t39.55

e In 1967: Seven men, includ­ing a Ku Klux Klan leader and Precious Metals a sheriffs deputy, were con­
Gold +$1.80 to $370.60 I oz.

victed in Meridian, Miss., on charges of violating the civil Silver + 2.5¢ to $5.133 I oz. rights of three murdered civil 
Source: AP

rights workers. 
lnlormaliOn compiled from Observer wlfes and Observer staff reports 
Design Edilor.. ...................... Joe Zadrozny 

Design AssilanL.. Wendy Cunningham Type9911er.L ........................ Chris Zaback .....................................................Fritz Valsaint Nllws Edb"............................... Greg Lucas 
News Copy Edllor................. Monica Yant 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Sports Copy Edllor............... Greg Guffey 
VIewpoint Editor..... .. ..Christine Walsh 
(219) 239-7471 Viewpoint Copy Editor_ Janice O"Leary Viewpoint Layout ......... Christine Walsh Accent Editor .................. Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ..................... Liz Havel Acoenl Designer..................Brian Grunert
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
l)'plst............................................ Will Zamer 
NO Day Edltor ................ Karen Balcerzak 
PhoeoglapheL ...................... Chris Kadzik 
Umversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be pur­
chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduct1on rights 
Ads De91gner............................ .Val Polello .............................•...•......Kathleen O'Connor Irish Extra Editor ................ Theresa Kelly Irish Extra ................................Jeanne Blasi 
are reserved 
Impress 



Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer ~ advertising. ~ 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 

' 

Nm,r\At 
Dl'liD 
Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 

Friday, October 20, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Speaker urges resolving racial differences· in business 
By BRADLEY GALKO 
Staff Reporter 
Resolving racial differences in the United States will be the means of keeping America eco­nomically competitive in the world market, said Ronald Homer, president and chief ex­ecutive officer of Boston Bank of Commerce. 
Homer, a 1968 graduate of Notre Dame, spoke to a small crowd in the Montgomery The­ater Thursday in the Alumni Association's annual Distin­guished Alumni Lecture. 
"How we reconcile the issue of race in our country and how we b1~gin to integrate all of the people into our society," said llomer, "is really going to be the test of whether we can sur­vive as a country." 
"I don't think we'll be able to compete, going forward with other countries," he added, "if we do not have all of the people 
in this country highly produc­
tive, all well motivated, and all 
pulling on the same oar." 
To illustrate this, Homer 
compared the United States to 
Japan where the work force is 
highly homogeneous. 
While comparing the upper 
and lower halves of the 
Japanese work force, he cited 
the similar backgrounds, few 
barriers, small wage gap, and 
high motivation of the lower 
half of the Japanese work 
force, in contrast to America's 
minority dominated lower half, 
as an integral factor as to why 
Japan is more competitive than 
the U.S. in world markets. 
On racial inequalities he said, "We (blacks) will not break through the ceiling of a lot of major corporations, until the ·broader community accepts our 
whole community." 
He encouraged blacks "to use 
those (present) networks you 
have to get to other networks" 

HRPPY BIRTHDAY LAURA STANTON 
WE LOUE YOU ORO, MOM, CRROL 

as a way of integrating and that there's a way to get in." bank grow at an average rate gaining acceptance by the "It's a matter of attitude, of 35 percent per year. Its de­broader community. then putting the resources in posits have increased from $11 
"First we have to make a place," he said. "We're not on million to $51 million, and its commitment that we want to the same team. It seems we're assets have grown from $11 solve it (inequality)," he said, trying to knock each other million to more than $58 mil­"The key is education ... (and) out." lion, a press release said. people will not get education In addition to being a 1968 Homer, who earned an MBA unless they are motivated also." graduate of the University, from the University of 
"We're going to have to use Homer is treasurer of the Black Rochester in 1971, says Boston all the media and the tools that Alumni of Notre Dame and a Banks' assets are now around we use to sell people soap member of the advisory council $70 million accumulated (goods)," he added, "to turn for the University's College of "primarily in lending money in that and say we're going to sell Business Administration. urban environments." this population black, hispanic, Chief Executive of Boston He says he entered banking Asian, poor, on the fact that Bank of Commerce since 1983, over his "concern over black they can get into America . . . his leadership has helped the economic development." 
~. 
Close, but not close enough 
The Observer/Chris Radzik 

T1m Probst outreaches his opponent to make a clean catch in a football game in front of Dillon Hall 
Thursday. 
The University of Notre Dame Warmly Welcomes 




Michael P. Esposito, Jr. 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE 
Chase Manhattan Bank 
AND ALUMNUS OF 
The University Of Notre Dame 
Mr. Esposito is hosting a reception on November 1, at the University Club, Upper Level, from 7 to 9 p.m., and warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities in finance at Chase. 

=-CHASE 

IllIll 1111 The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 
33 Maiden Lane New York, New York 10081 
The Observer Friday, October 20, 1989
page 4 


57 killed in Soviet military 

plane crash on Thursday Earthquake rumbles north China 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-A military trans­port plane carrying paratroop­ers to keep order in the ethni­cally torn southern republic of Azerbaijan lost an engine and crashed in the Caspian Sea, killing all 57 people aboard, said reports Thursday. 
The left engine of the Ilyushin-76 plane caught fire minutes after it took off from an unidentified airport in the Azerbaijani part of the Cauca­sus Military District, Izvestia said. 
"The fire spread so fast that within three minutes, the engine fell off, but the fire did not stop," the newspaper reported, quoting Col. Gen. Pankin. lie said Cmdr. Kalmikov, 48, had tried to ny the crippled plane back to the airport. 
A few miles from his goal, "the Ilyushin careened sharply to the left and fell" into shallow water less than a mile from shore, the newspaper said. 
Tass did not say more pre­cisely where or when the crash 



Theft 
continued from page 1 
student who reported her bag missing at lunchtime Wednes­day at North Dining llall, he said. 
llurley said that Seeurity will continue its investigation and try to determine if the individu­als were involved in any other thefts. 
lie stressed that students should try to mark their books and other items in their bags so that if stolen and recovered Se­curity can make a positive I.D. Students should put their name and phone number in the book in places other than the front and perhaps put their social se­curity number in the pages as well. 
"We are indebted to the peo­ple in the South Bend and Notre Dame community who came to Security with information im­mediately," said Johnson. 
occurred. It said the huge transport plane carried a crew of seven as well as 50 passen­gers. 
Interior Minister Vadim Bakatin told a news conference that rescuers initially believed some of those on board might have survived. 
"It was during the night so rescue work was very difficult," he said. 
Workers recovered parts of the engines and fuselage from the water, he said. Specialists were searching for the plane's "black box," Izvestia said, us­ing the Western term for an aircraft voice and data recorder that might shed light on the reason for the crash. 
The 11-76 has four turbofan engines. Its wings are mounted atop the fuselage and are 150 feet long, according to Jane's All the World's Aircraft. 
"The U.S.S.R. Defense Min­istry expressed its deep condo­lences to the families of the dead," Tass said. 
Troops have been patrolling Azerbaijan and neighboring Armenia since last year to pre­vent more violence between residents feuding over the dis­trict of Nagorno-Karabakh. More than 100 people have died in violence related to the dis­


pute. 

Datong by telephone failed. 




,_,__®_____, 
THE HEALY COMPANY 
OFFERS YOU LOW COST TERM I IFE INSURANCE 
to help provide your family or business with the NEEDED protection. 
Annual Premiuml for '260,()001' Coverage* 
llale
~· 

25 '174 
36 f190 46 

'234
56 f1525 
$1413
• 

Associated Press 

BEIJING-A severe 
earthquake rumbled across 
rural north China early 
Thursday, knocking flat 
about 8,000 homes, killing at 
least 29 people and injuring 
34, according to Xinhua 
News Agency and other offi­
cial reports. 

Xinhua said in a brief re­port that aftershocks con­tinued. 
The quake was centered about 135 miles west of Bei­jing on the border of Shanxi and Hebei provinces and struck less than 24 hours after a massive earthquake hit the San Francisco area, but State Seismological Bu­reau officials said there was no evidence the temblors were linked. 
Residents of Beijing felt the tremors, but no reports of damage surfaced and the bu­reau said there was no need to take safety measures in the capital. 
The epicenter was near Datong, famous for its Yun­gang Caves that hold thou­sands of Buddhist paintings and statues dating to the 5th century. Whether any caves were damaged was not re­ported. Efforts to reach 
The Seismological Bureau said an initial quake hit at 
10:57 p.m. Wednesday 
(10:57 a.m. EDT) and mea­sured 5. 7 on the Richter scale. At least four others registering 5 or above hit in the next six hours, including a quake of 6 on the scale at about 1 a.m. Thursday (1 
p.m. EDT Wednesday). An aftershock measuring 
5.1 hit at 6:29 p.m. (6:29 EDT Thursday), Xinhua said. More than 300 lesser after­shocks were recorded. 
Nearly 24 hours after the first of a series of quakes al­most no details were avail­able from the government or official media about extent of damage. 
China's prime time na­tional news program gave extensive time on Thursday to Premier Li Peng inspecting a stadium and a continuing campaign against pornogra­phy, but failed to mention the killer earthquake that was felt in Beijing. 
It takes days for the de­tails of many major disas­ters to be reported, and many, particularly industrial accidents, are still ignored by the official press. 
The region affected by the Wednesday-Thursday quakes is a dry, windswept farming 
area, where wheat and other 
grains are grown and where 
most homes are built one­
story high of unfired clay 
bricks, vulnerable to collapse 
in an strong quake. 
Shanxi also is China's main 
coal-producing province and 
mines pock the stark land. 
Xinhua earlier quoted Seismological Bureau sources as reporting another earthquake early Thursday in China's far west region of Xinjiang and Gansu. How­ever, bureau officials later said they had not confirmed any tremors in the sparsely populated desert area. 
Earthquakes are frequent in China. Last month one hit southwest Sichuan province, injuring 54 people and de­stroying 4,000 homes. Five earthquakes with magni­tudes registering up to 6. 7 on the Richter scale hit west­ern Sichuan in June and July, killing 11 people. 
China's worst earthquake in recent history leveled Tangshan in the northeast in 1976, with a magnitude es­timated at up to 8.2. The of­ficial count listed 240,000 dead, but unofficial esti­mates put the toll at three times that. 

"Tt£ ITAUAN RISTORANTE" 
Open FOI' Diaacr C8rry Outa Atelnhb. 5erWig your IIIYOI'Ie wine end cocktail y_..... -••hlr'le~ 
Pasta l)giJes • Chkken Cacciatore 
• Veal •Manicotti • Lasagna 
•Fettuccine AIIJWdo • Fish • Shrimp
•PUD• 
.........& Prtdte ............ toO South ol NJl Gc*iln Dome 
~--~-­
Friday, October 20, 1989 
The Observer page 5 
College student dies in frat hazing incident 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-A Morehouse College sophomore died in what school officials said appears to have been a hazing incident in the nation's oldest black fra­ternity, and school officials said they may expel the mem­bers involved. 
School officials said the col­lege had suspended the Alpha Phi Alpha chapter's charter. 
Medical examiners have not determined the cause of death of Joel Harris, 18, of New York, but they said he appeared to suffer from a heart condi­tion. 
Alpha Phi Alpha state director Robert Willis said the death oc­curred Wednesday at a gather­ing in an apartment for 19 young men interested in joining the 11 0,000-member fraternity. 
He said the students told him they met with approximately seven fraternity brothers and around" when they failed to correctly answer questions about the fraternity. 
"Next thing they knew, they looked around and the fellow was lying on the floor," Willis said. "At first they thought he was faking it, but then when they realized he wasn't faking, they called 911." 
Willis said that according to the potential pledges, the fra­ternity brothers knew of Har­ris' history of heart trouble. 
"Joel wasn't really picked on," Willis said. "They (pledges) said they didn't see Joel get hit." 
The fraternity's president, Gregory Burrell, could not im­mediately be reached for com­ment Thursday. The fraternity chapter does not have a house, there was no telephone listing for Burrell, and a message left for him at the Morehouse dean of students office was not im­
"were pushed and shoved mediately returned. 
Rescue efforts AP Photo Rescue workers and volunteers help injured motorists on the collapsed portion of an Oakland freeway Tuesday.
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 
OPEN
ROCCO'S


~iB:~~1:1:1 
HAIRSTYLING FOR 
Tue. -Sat. MEN._& MEN 
5:00pm

BICYCLES •EXERCISERS ..BMX HEAUOUARTERS SALES-SERVICE-PARTS-ACCESSORIES 

Tks M:AL:ABA 

SUMMER STORAGE • • • ClosED SIINDAY & wmn~v 
ExceUent 

AVAILABLE ~~~;~l;~~l~"s~l~~oAv 10.~M 5 JOPM 
lndl.an Culslne 

ROSELAND MISHAWAKA 
Rl:SttP.ATlOMS DtSUttn 1709SOUTJlltND .AVE.

277-8866 259-4862 531 N. 
Michigan St. 
(EDUOM .-u.s. Zll) 
(219) 271-CillS 

Phone 22 -7 
Belly Dance Surprise Service 

The DePaul University 
-presents­

Professional Master of Science 
Personalities Plus* 
a balloon -telegram delivery service 

in Accountancy Program 
255-3355 
!Student Special! with this coupon $15 (a $10 savings) Good thru 1989-90 school year 
1990 LA&S GRADUATES: A Special Announcement concerning Careers in Business Specifically for Liberal Arts and Sciences Students. 
The School of Accountancy of DePaul University, Chicago, Illinois, a 75-year leader in innovative accounting education, offers to selected graduates of prestigious Liberal Arts and Sciences programs the Professional Master of Science in Accountancy. The program is offered in conjunction with the nation's leading accounting firms, is highly competitive, and restricted to students sponsored by the participating accounting firms. 
is looking for future leaders in Public Affairs. 
The 15-month program entails: 
We offer a 2-year Master's program in Public Policy, with concentrations offered in: 
• immediate (June 1990) employment in the Chicago office of a sponsoring accounting firm. 
• 
Criminal Justice 

• 
Energy & Environmental Polley 


• an accelerated course of study in business and accounting -a growth 
• Government & Business industry -at Chicagds DePaul University. 
• 
Health Polley 


• 
Housing & Community Development


Successful completion of the DePaul Professional MSA program results in: 
• 
Human Services, Labor & Education 

• 
International Affairs & Security


• A Master of Science in Accountancy degree from DePaul University 
•International 
Development 

•International 
Trade & Finance 


• Full-time business and accounting experience with a major accounting firm 
• 
Press & Politics 


• 
Science & Technology


• Eligibility to sit for the CPA Examination in Illinois 
• 
Transportation 


• 
Urban Economic Development


• Broad career opportunities, and advancement, in professional accounting 
with your sponsoring firm. 
Interested? Then come meet with the Kennedy School Representative who will be on your campus on: 
Participation is restricted to candidates sponsored by participating accounting firms. 
DATE: Wednesday, November 1 
The Professional MSA Program begins mid-June, 1990. 
TIME: lOam & 11om group sessions 
For more information on the Professional MSA Program, contact the placement office 
LOCATION: Please contact your Career Placement 
on this campus, which is cooperating with this program, or Dr. John T. Ahern, Jr., 
Office for this information. 
Director, School of Accountancy, DePaul University, 25 E. Jackson, Chicago, Illinois 60604, (312) 341-8770. 
ALL STUDENTS, ALL YEARS, ALL MAJORS WELCOME! 

• 



Friday, October 20, 1989

page 6 The Observer 
Inflation rises modestly in Sept. 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Consumer prices rose an unexpectedly modest 0.2 percent in Septem­ber, the government said Thursday, soothing frazzled fl. nancial markets. which took the report as an indication the Federal Reserve Board has room to lower interest rates. 
Inflation, which had been raging at a 6. 7 percent annual rate from January through May, has now abated to a 4.4 percent rate for the first nine months of the year, the same as in both 1988 and 1987 and well under the Bush administra­tion's 1989 inflation projection of 5 percent. 
Michael Boskin, chief eco­nomic adviser at the White House, called the report "good economic news." 
"We're delighted to be able to say that, while we're always on guard to make sure that infla­tion remains under control, the concern earlier in the year that inflation was getting out of control appears to have been unfounded," he said. 
The seasonally adjusted in­crease in the Labor Depart­ment's Consumer Price Index follows no gain at all in August and similarly modest 0.2 per­cent rises in July and June. 
Although private economists said inflation was likely to pick up in the fourth quarter, jittery stock and bond markets rallied on Thursday's news, interpret­ing it as a sign the Federal He­serve likely will nudge interest rates lower. 

By midafternoon, the Dow Jones industrial average had risen more than 40 points. 
Because of the stock market 
. turmoil set ofT by the Friday the 13th nosedive, the Fed has eased a key interest rate from about 9 percent to 8. 75 percent. Analysts predicted another quarter-point decline soon in the rate charged between banks for overnight loans. 
"Under these circumstances, there is no question that inter­est rates will fall." said economist William 
MacReynolds of the U.S. Cham­ber of Commerce. 
In an effort to contain infla­tion, the Fed has been using high interest rates to slow the economy. Although wholesale­price inflation shot up 0.9 per­cent in September, other statistics for the month portray a sluggish economy with weak­ening manufacturing employ­ment, industrial production and housing construction. 
In other reports: 
•The Labor Department said new state unemployment claims for the week ending Oct. 7 grew 62,000 in a week's time to 396,000. That report amounted to a further indication of the economy's softness. 
•The department said Ameri­cans' average real weekly earn­ings of $33H.67 in September were up 3.5 percent from a year earlier -not enough to keep up with inflation. Adjustnd for inflation, earnings rose 0.3 percent last month following a 
0.7 percent decline in August. 
The nation's 3H.9 million So­cial Security recipients watched Thursday's consumer-price re­port with partieular interest because it affected the benefit increase they're due to receive in January. 
Benefits will climb 4.7 per­cent, the biggest boost in 7 112 years, to o!Tset the effects of inflation over the last year. The average monthly payment will climb $25 to $566. 
At the same time, the cap on Social Security payroll taxes will rise. Workers will have to 
pay  the  tax  on  their  first  
$50.400  in  wages,  up  from  
$4H,OOO.  

Analysts wern surpris1~d by the September inflation data. They had been ~~xpecting higher crude oil costs to rippln through to gasolinn pumps, pushing up prices overall by about 0.4 pPrcent. 
Fuel oil priens droppPd 0.2 percent last month after declin­ing 0. 9 pnrcent in August. 

NOTRE DAME Wallpaper and Team Border IN STOCK 
-We happily fill mail and phone orders 
-an excellent Christmas Gift! 
-see NO wallpaper &border in lower 

level of La Fortune Student Center 
5776 GrapeAcross from Phar-Mor INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA







wallpaper, tog 
WHERE BEAUTIFUL ROOMS BEGINj 
SHOP &..: DINE...ONTHE 
EAST .,_,..... 

~ ~BANK 
··~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~&--~
PRIME RIB •SEAFOOD/ 
y 

~~ ~-J~~++~~~ 

22-POINT SAFETYI SERVICE INSPECTION 
+ 

WYNN'S POWER FLUSH 
Get Ready For Fall And Winter 
W:he Jilltole :Mole 
$4995 
For Both Services
The Killilea Commitment ..• 

,-\1)-)

Satisfaction Guaranteed. 
Art Gltw Cards 
Brass Childrnr's Corn" 
Crystal 

Keep that great GM feeling
Decorative Accasoriu
Colkdibl~ 

with genuine GM parts. 


KILfilEA
Dtcoys
David Wint" Co/lag~ 

Dolls Mtn's Gifts
/Wtlry 

Kaltidas<opa Picturr (ram~ 
Music Boxes 

OLDS • NISSAN
CRABTREE&. EVELYN

PritrU & UthOirtJPiu
Tom Clark's Gno~ 
~ 

}v.ll -~
2102 Llncolnway West, Mishawaka IN 46544
p.,_;,hu
WindChiTMS 
Sotlps • LctiotUSil/c Flown
Ytar-<lround Christmas 
Slulmpoos • Potpou"i 
II 

(219) 255-9644 
S~Nrovslcl Crystal 
Gourmet Foods & Candits 

Fra: Oiflwrapplna•••••Wc Ship Anywhcrc .•.•. VISA, MASTERCARD 
l:z.J S. Niles, Downtown Sou1h Bend Tdcphonc (21~ 2Jl-i488 Monday· Saturday 10:00 • 9:00 Sunday 1:00 • 3:00 
--~~-­



······~&··~~-~-~-·~· 


Friday, October 20, 1989 
The Observer 

Associated Press 
KABUL, Mghanistan-Rock­ets slammed into the capital's airport and civilian flights were halted Thursday as the Soviet Union was reported to be un­dertaking the largest airlift since its military withdrawal eight months ago. 
The government said shelling in Kabul killed 12 people and wounded 35, though two doc­tors at a hospital that monitors casualties said they did not know of any victims. 
The U.S.-backed guerrillas also shelled a strategic town near the Pakistan border, killing nine people, the govern­ment said. 
Diplomatic sources in Kabul and Islamabad, Pakistan, said it was the largest Soviet airlift since February, when Soviet troops ended their nine-year in­tervention in Mghanistan. 
Diplomats in Kabul said So­viet-built Antonov-12 transport planes were flying continuously into the airport, dropping off weapons and food for soldiers. 
r····:&rore·you·fiiY~i"MJewllter········­
: Itpays to doyourllomeworl<. 
• 
0 7,000 Character Memory 0 24 Character Display 0 Insert 0 Spell-Right'" 50,000 Word 
• Electronic Dictionary 0 Full-Line Correction 0 Correcting Cassette 0 Right Ribbon System'" 0WordFind'" 0List 0 WordEraser'" 0 Auto Center/Return 
0 Relocate 
0 Auto Underscore 
0 End of Page Warning 
0 Dual Pitch 
0 Bi-Directional Print 
0 Stop Codes 
0 Memory Battery Back-Up • 
0 Bold Print 
0 Forward/Reverse Index 
0 Auto Half-Space 

Today's assignment is quite simple. And quite rewarding. Just study the remarkable features of the Smith Corona XD 5600 and compare them with other typewriters. 
After all, how many comparably priced type­writers give you word processing capabilities like Display and Memo~ so you can edit, revise and make your work letter perfect. And try and find the Spell-Right'" 50,000 word Electronic Dictionary 
---~----------­
page 7 

Soviets make airlift as Kabul is heavily shelled 
They said the planes were also flying night missions. 
Two soldiers said all com­
mercial traffic was shut down 
for most of the afternoon but 
Soviet transport planes were 
operating despite the shelling. 
Witnesses said at least five 
rockets hit the airport grounds, 
but there were no immediate 
casualty or damage reports 
there. 
U.S. Rep. Don Ritter, R-Pa., estimated Moscow has in­creased its aid to $400 million this month. The previous figure had been $250 million to $300 million a month. U.S. aid to the guerrillas has been estimated at $500 to $600 million a year. 
An Asian diplomat said the airlift, expected to continue into next week, demonstrated the Kremlin's commitment to the government of President Najib. 
"Many people underestimated their resolve after they picked up and left," he said. "But they cannot afford to los'e Mghanistan, especially with all 
their problems in Eastern Eu­rope." 
Guerrillas have been firing rockets and artillery from the mountains surrounding Khost, said government spokesman Muhammed Nabi Amani. 
"Areas of Khost were heavily shelled resulting in the deaths of six servicemen and three civilians," Amani said. 
The spokesman said the Mghan air force attacked the positions and killed or wounded hundreds of guerrillas. He did not specify when the fighting occurred. 
Khost is 100 miles southeast of the capital and about 25 miles west of the border with Pakistan, where most of the guerrillas are based. 
Cross 
continued from page 1 
process of acquiring members. 
Desouza said he had spoken to his family since the earthquake. 
"It's kind of a scary scene." he said, "My dad works about five minutes away from that bridge that collapsed." 
He said that although he knows many people from the San Francisco Bay area, he has not heard of any of them hav­ing been injured in the earthquake. 
or the exclusive fumble-free Correcting Cassette on anything but a Smith Corona typewriter. Though we've packed all these features into a 
Frankfurt 1225 
Schedule<.J varriers! Book anytime!
portable that weighs under 14 pounds, we've been 
Fares 1/2 AT from Chicago. Some 
able to keep the cost equally lightweight. 
restrictions apply. lnt'l Teacher 1.0.; hostel ->asses; overseas foreign .
The versatile Smith Corona XD 5600. It makes 
language refresher courses for 
teachers. Call for FREE Travel Catalog.
buying a typewriter SMITI-1 the easiest assignment CORON~ You'll ever have. TOMORROW'S TECHNOlOGY 

AT YOUR TOUCH'" 
For more information on this product, write to Smith Corona Corporation, 65 Locust Avenue, New Canaan, CT 06840 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••oi ~~t~ ~~0~~<ia~a~'ll r~ l"~s~o~ ~':~ ~"ir~o·o~••o,::..o.'i,a~a~~~~~J"4•••••••••••••••••••••••••••­

------------.----~~ 
page 8 The Observer Friday, October 20, 1989 
Workers on 1-880 cut through the rubble with 'bravery' 
M * 
said. Member schools of the 
N.A.S.C.C.U. are still not fully determined, said Kinkopf. It is open to all of the over 200 Catholic colleges and universi­ties across the country, said Kinkopf. 
"The potential for real influ­ence is great," said Kinopf. "We can react in a united way because we (the members of N.A.S.C.C.U.) all have something in common," he said. 
"It has had somewhat of a snowball effect, as more schools hear about the group, more want to join and be a part of it to give their students a voice nationwide," Kinkopf 
To our favorite Dcup-
H©l[p)[p)~ B=cdJ©l~ Ju~®~~ 

Love-Deb, Jen, Cristin, sty and Agnes 
'*************************************************~ 
~ GO TO :i MEDICAf ~{1/00L ~ 
E tUitiON\ E ! PA\D " ! 
* *
* Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and * * fees paid in full-plus earn more than $700 a month while you attend school. * 
: Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed ** 
Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program.! We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the !* Army, Navy or Air Force. * * If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain * * valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as * * a commissioned officer in the Reserves. * ! After graduation, you'll serve three years or more-depending on the Service !* you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive-as a respected * * Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits * * and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical * * technology. * ! If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice-!* and want to cut the expense of medical school-send for more information today. * 
* *
E r-,E-$1Sendm~tails~heAr~esH~fessl~lars=am, *** 
• can help cut my medical school expenses. Imeet the age requirements noted below.
* *
I understand Iam under no obligation.
* I 

Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships. PO Box 2865* Huntington Stat1on, NY 11746·2102
* Check up to three: 0 Army 0 Navy 0 Air Fon:e
* (10.35 yea11 of age) (21·36 yea11 of age) (10.34 yea11 of age) 
~* PNieaamsee print all information clearly and completely.
I 

---.:F,:::,.,------.M,""'dd,..le.,-100,.,-,.1,...------,-La-,-,--D Male
1 1
* Address Apt. # 
* 
! I City State Zip I I I Phone CIIJ CIIJ I I Soc. Sec. No. ITIJ [I] I I 
Area Cocle Number 
*~ I College 

Birth Date [I] [I] [I] Field of Study Graduation Date L.LJ [I] 
Mo ~Year 
Mo Year

* *The informat1on you voluntarily provide Will be ~sed tor recruiting purposes only. The more complete 11 IS, the
* better we can respond to your request. IAuthonty: 10 USC ~031. *
* .. _______ .. * 
said. 

Currently, there are 30-35 schools who are members of 
N.A.S.C.C.U. They include John Carrol University, University of Dayton, DePaul University, Saint Mary's, and the University of San Francisco. 
The group represents a wide variety of areas and school sizes, said Kinkopf. 
The idea to form a national group of students from Catholic schools came to Kinkopf last year, and he began to work on the idea immediately after being elected. Over the summer, he and Student Body President Matt Breslin called Catholic schools to sec if they 
FRIENDS OF SKI 
Thanks for an awesome birthday. You guys are great!! 
Love, Ski 
had an interest in forming such a group. 
"The reaction was over­whelmingly positive," said Kinkopf. "We contacted student leaders across the eountry and they all wanted to be a part of it. Many were amazed that there was currently no group with a similar function." 
Heactions from the University administration has also been very positive, said Kinkopf. 
"We took on a large role in the formation of this group," said Kinkopf. "We thought it was of great importance to try to establish a group which does what the N.A.S.C.C.U. will be doing." 
I * 
9015 * 
*
*
I *** 
D Female 
* 
I I I I *! 
I I I 
*
I *** 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND, Calif.-The reek of gasoline dripping from flat­tened cars and trucks mingled Thursday with the aroma from eucalyptus trees splintered by tons of concrete crashing to the streets below. 
On the railing of the flattened upper deck of Interstate 880, markers of fluorescent green, pink and orange spray paint point the way to crushed cars and shattered bodies. 
The code is crisp and clear: The letters 1DOA signified a body, 2MT a pair of empty cars, a circle and arrow with the number 43 showed a car 43 feet away. 
Here and there, blood spat­ters the highway's underside. Two days ago, 3-foot-thick 

concrete supports turned to dust, 2-inch steel reinforcing bars bent like pipecleaners, and chunks of freeway cascaded like runaway boulders when an earthquake collapsed a mile­long section of I-880, the Nimitz Freeway. 
Early estimates put the num­ber of dead at 250 people, but by Thursday, officials said they expected the total would be lower. 
Across from the rubble, just outside the Pacific Pipe Co., a salesman who would identify himself only as Dennis stood on the sidewalk Thursday, still shaken by what he had seen. 
"It just was one single POW!" Dennis said. "The concrete made so much dust you couldn't see anything. 
"After you got out here it was so quiet, all you could hear was people screaming. Anybody who could move was getting out. We got some ropes. The thought everyone had was that this was the way it was everywhere. We didn't know how long it would be before help came." 
One who came to help was David Horn, a firefighter from neighboring Berkeley. 

National 
continued from page 1 
document on higher education, he said. 
The group will discuss stu­dent rights in and outside of the classroom, concerning me­dia freedom. and things like the right to contract speakers or program events appropriate to learning, said Kinkopf. 
He said that some problems exist currently because schools may restrict events deemed un­necessary or immoral, while the events may be useful in a stu­dent's education and freedom to learn. 
Other issues N.A.S.C.C.U. dis­
cusses in the future may be the 
roln of women in the church, 
eo-ed housing, fraternities and 
sororities, federal funding for 
Catholic colleges, and abortion. 
The group's structure is not completely determined, said Kinkopf. and it is still in the process of working out the final details. lie said it likely will be comprised of national officers 
EXff!l~N!l!!~~ 
....---------,®IQUALITY PAINTING I 
325 OIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BEND [219) 277-3355 215 S. 11TH STREET • NILES 
for public relations and fi­nances, and regional officers with similar duties. 
An executive committee of the group will have a meeting in November to work out its finalized structure, and will work out an official first draft of its stand on academic freedom. N.A.S.C.C.U. will then send out the draft to Catholic colleges across the country, said Kinkopf. 
The first national meeting of the N.A.S.C.C.U. will be in February, and will be held on the Notre Dame campus, Kinkopf said. The final draft of their stand on academic free­dom will also be completed, he 


CONTACT LENSES 
$4~ 

Softmatc Clear Dally or Extended Wear 
TINTED LENSES 
2PAJ~ 
2dJ~~~~If 0~ "'0" 

c.ntact Mr..,.-~ c.-kit rwt ndud..:l. 
EVEN BIFOCALS & 
1111 E. Ireland Rd.

TRIFOCALS Buy a pair ofour 291-4000 Fashion Collection 
glasses and get a spare patr from our Premtum Selection for $1, 

No other discounts, previOWI orders, or sale Items apply. 

Friday, October 20, 1989 The Observer page 9 


Evolution. 



,.. .S File Edit Gallery Chart Format Macro Window 1&01 

Evetything is in a constant state of evolution. Life evolves. The Earth evolves. Business evolves. Today's business world has evolved past the Lotus 1-2-3 spreadsheet and into the Microsoft Excel© spreadsheet run on a Macintosh computer. Like the Macintosh, Excel uses the best of both the evolutionary and the revolutionary. Like pull-down menus, sorting capabilities and font selections. Excel lets you make it the way you want it. Excel is what you make it. 
Mac Is What You Make It 
Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, October 20, 1989 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly K1llen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Al1son Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Ba1iey OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saini Mary's Editor Chnst1ne Gill Controller Anne L1ndner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Umvers•· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa•nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of lhe adm1mstrat1on of e1ther 1nStiiUt1on The news IS reported as accurately and ob· fect1vely as poss•ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the maJonty of the follow•ng Ed1tor-•n-Ch1ef. Manag1ng Ed1tor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor. V1ewpoint Editor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed•tor. Photo Ed1tor. Saint Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes. letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the~r authors Column space IS available to all members of the community and the free express1on of varymg op1n1ons on campus, through letters. IS encouraged 

mits an honor offense has vio­ has implemented an honor sys­ 
lated the trust that exists be­ tem  hoping  to  rnducn  such  
tween  colleagues. To  prepare  complaints. There may be sornn  
an accusation of such a person  problems in the existing sys­ 
should not cause a student to  tem-possibly including tiHlS(~  
be ostracized. It is the offender  mentioned  by  Mr. Carroll.  lie  
who misrepresents his  or  her  feels that there is  no room  for  
ability on an exam, or plagia­ students to  interpret possible  
rizes  the  work  of others,  or  violations b()forn bringing  an  
steals someone else's work and  accusation.  That  may  be;  I  
claim that it is his or her own.  don't purport to be  an  expert  
How can this person continue  on  Notre Dame's current sys­ 
to  be  worthy  of  another's  tem. But at Virginia, we had a  
trust? To vilify the  accuser in  concept called "reprehensibil­ 
such a situation is ridiculous.  ity." A possible honor offense  
My  opinions  on  academic  should only be brought to accu­ 
honor were formed during my  sation if the  accuser  felt that  
experience teaching at the Uni­ action was reprehensible. That  
versity of Virginia. Abiding by  is, the offense, if found  to  be  
adoption of an  honor code  on  my earlier essay, such practices  in the system. In other words, I  the llonor System was a serious  true,  warranted  expulsion  of  
this  campus,  (The  Observer,  may reduce the level of trust  as a teacher will not set myself  responsibility  that  most  the offender from the university  
Dec. 2, 1987). At that time, the  assumed  to exist between the  up as a student's adversary in  members  of  the  community  community.  Perhaps  such  
mechanics of the Honor Code  teacher  and  the  students.  I  the classroom, but don't expect  took  very seriously. Accusers  wording could be suggested in  
were not universally known, but  never enter a classroom, or an  me  to  condone inappropriate  were never ostracized for par­ adjusting  the  current  honor  
one  thing appeared  certain:  examination  room,  assuming  behavior.  ticipation in the honor system.  system.  
students were going to be ex­ someone  is going  to  cheat or  This brings  us  to  Mr.  Car­ (Great  care  was  exercised  to  If Mr. Carroll and other stu­ 
peeted to accuse their peers of  attempt to cheat.  roll's second point concerning  ensure  that  the  proceedings  dents consider the current sys­ 
possible honor violations. This  Mr.  Carroll's  interpretation  my previous essay. He suggests  remained confidential). Nor do  tem  flawed,  I hope that they  
aspect  became  the  focus  of  of my statements troubles me.  that my essay encourages the  I recall anyone on that campus  will  not summarily dismiss it.  
greatest protest by  students.  He  states:  "His (meaning my)  reduction of trust between stu­ living in fear of a possible ac­ In  the  end.  an  honor system  
The opinion voiced by students consistently objected to the  statement obviously implies that reporting a student de­ dents because it encourages students to assume responsibil­ cusation. The trust between students was implied, and any  only works if students support it. Bather than dismantling the  
need for them to "rat" on their  stroys trust." This is not obvi­ ity for reporting possible honor  honor offense was recognized  current system, students who  
classmates. My original essay  ous to me. Just because I make  offenses.  lie  states:  "He  as a violation of that trust.  perceive  major  flaws  in  the  
was  a  response,  from  one  no  assumption about my  stu­ (meaning me) does  not  show  I have not been fully involved  Honor  Code  should  actively  
teacher's perspective,  to  this  dents' cheating does not mean  how the Honor Code  can  de­ in the development and imple­ participate in attempts to  re­ 
aspect of the honor code.  that  I will hesitate to report a  stroy the trust between the stu­ mentation  of  Notre  Dame's  form it.  
Mr.  Carroll  first  brings  up  possible  honor  offense.  To  dents,  and  therefore weaken  honor system.  But I do know  About Mr. Carroll's comment  
one  portion  of  my  essay  in  refuse to set about arranging  the Notre Dame family, while  that  the  system  was  imple­ that the honor system at Notre  
which  I  state  that  teachers  traps  for  potential honor of­ the  administration  is  merely  mented in part because of stu­ Dame  is  a  marketing ploy:  I  
should not be required to " use  fenses  does  not  mean  that I  spewing  rhetoric  about  dent  comments.  When  I first  don't thing anybody  ever  at­ 
various  methods  to  dissuade  would not find such actions ob­ cheaters who will graciously  started  teaching  here  (five  tended the University of Vir­ 
students from cheating." In this  jectionable. Certainly I would  thank  the  'narcs'  for  their  years  ago),  students  would  ginia because it has the Honor  
passage, I was alluding to such  assume  my responsibility as a  moral conviction." This passage  regularly complain about aca­ System, but many of its alumni  
practiees as assigning multiple  member of this academic com­ brings up another type of trust,  demic cheating on this campus.  become prouder of their alma  
versions  of exams,  having  a  munity, and follow the system  that between classmates.  Mr.  They felt that their grades may  mater as they witness the dis­ 
prepared seating plan during  that was currently in existence.  Carroll appears to believe that  not truly reflect their compara­ array at other schools.  
exams, having proctors avail­ In my opinion, I would not be  the person violating the trust  tive ability in the classroom. If  I hope that these comments  
able during exams, and the like.  the one whose action breached  between classmates is the one  their teacher tended  to  grade  clarify  my  position  on  the  
Personally, I feel that such practices imply an expectation on the teacher's part that cheating may occur. As I said in  the trust between student and teacher. The student, having committed the honor violation, has breached the trust inherent  who brings forward an ac­cusation. On this I emphatically dis­agree. The student who com- on a curve, and a few cheaters "blew the curve," their grades tended to suffer. As I see it, the administration  honor system. Gary M. Kern Assistant Professor ofManagement Oct. 17, 1989  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  


LETTERS 
Honor Code violators breach inherent trust 
GOSH... 15 7l-fl3l<e ANY ANIMOS/7Y 8/iTU/UN 'IOU AN!? MR. {.()I?N <r 
I 
Y()() M/6HT5AY THAT. /3V&I<Y TIM& H/3 S/313f3 Mt, H& t31Vl3f3 
MtA~l­
eARFUt..! 
\ 
OH, WOW, Y()()'/?t RIGHT/ 
«JHJrTr PIP I 5AY50Me­THIN6"? N&V­
&1< M/NO. 

I .------:::::::'---"1 
'Words are like leaves; and where they most abound, much fruit of sense beneath is rarely found.' 
Alexander Pope 
1688-1744 

Viewpoint 
page 11 

Notre Dame family must address racial injustice 
In light of the recent uproar on campus regarding racial tension among black students and Notre Dame faeulty, it has come to my attention that the issue of racism. as a legitimate concern, needs to be addressed. Far too often, certain sticky si­tuations are not discussed for fear of causing unnecessary tension or bad feelings. Many students are under the impres­sion that such things as sexual harassment, date rape and prejudice do not really occur on the Notre Dame campus. And that if they do, occurrences are on such a small scale that the issues do not need to be ad­drnsscd. I regret to say, how­IWer, that such things do indeed IH:rur. In fact, more so than most might care to admit. 
America has had a struggle with racial tension for cen­turies. Black Americans, as well as a host of other ethnic groups, have had to combat vi­eious stereotypes, economic in-
Echelon Jackson 
On Human Rights 
justice and political obstacles continuously. It is naive to think that in this present day and age, people just aren't racist anymore. We must real­ize that racism did not simply disappear with the end of the Civil Rights Movement of the 
1960's. Concern for racial in­justice and inequality cannot be written off as a thing of the past. It is an issue today, just as it was an issue 20 or even 100 years ago. The importance of cultural awareness cannot be stressed enough. It's time for us to wise up. 
Yes, it is sad to admit that our world is filled with malice. Moral wrongs, economic wrongs and the like are ills that plague our society. These affect everyone, black Americans in-eluded. Oh, everyone knows about the civil rights move­ment. And everyone knows about the injustices that go on in South Africa. But what ev­eryone doesn't know or does not care to admit is that right here, right in our own commu­nity, we have a serious problem that needs to be acknowledged. 
Black students on this cam­pus are fighting a battle of their very own. It is not one with an imaginary enemy. In fact, it is one that has stood the test of time. It is one that has survived integration and the acceptance of outstanding ath­letes, professionals and per­formers. It is one that has even survived the vast achievements of people of African origin. Racism is that powerful and ultimately dangerous enemy that black students face in their lives daily. 
We seem to want to close our eyes on this campus. It's easier that wav. On the other hand, one cannot help but see that administrators, alumni, par­certain things just aren't right. ents, or friends owe it to our­And when we come to these re-selves to free one another from alizations, we must stand up the chains of ignorance. We are for what is right and do what all entitled to dignity and re­we can to combat these in-spect. Just because one person fringements on human rights. or one group does not share 
Black students, if they didn't your ethnic or economic back­already know, found out re-ground does not mean that they cently that they cannot escape are below you or above you. We racism. Not even on the cam-are all God's children. Although puses of prestigious institutions we may have differences, we such as Notre Dame. The re-are all the same in our human­cent incidents with certain fac-ity and our rights as individu­ulty members demonstrate this. als. 
If we are to truly enjoy the We must realize that you "Year of the Family," we must don't have to belong to a mi­begin to learn about the indi-nority group for racial injustice vidual family members. We to touch your life. It affects all must realize that the whole of us. We share one earth, we community is affected when any share one God and we share group is unjustly wronged. only one Notre Dame "family." When racially derogatory Echelon Jackson is a junior statements are made, be it in a management information sys­classroom, on the quads, or terns major and a member of even in a seemingly "innocent" the board of advisors for the ethnic joke, we all suffer a coalition on Human Rights, great injustice. sponsors of the On Human 
We as students, faculty or Rights column. 
LETTERS 
Efforts of students should be encouraged, not berated 
Dear Editor: It is not unexpected that he than to send Jim back into uses seems to single them out become so presumptuously en­
1 must say that my expecta-places a great deal of confi-slavery, Huck is not only saving as the only ones capable of meshed in talking down to us. I tions were certainly confounded dence in his longtime associate Jim but is, moreover, saving his such ignorance. Certainly we hope that the students who the more I read Father Hobert Father George Wirshkirchen. I own soul. We revel in this be-know better than that. This helped to establish a better Griffin's column, "An Open Let-have not witnessed any of his cause we are glad to see that matter of abusing students for grievance procedure in the Col­ter to Black Students On Cam-lectures; neither have I had any Huck may not be led into their physical prowess did not lege of Arts and Letters will pus" (The Observer, Oct. 13). I first hand accounts of his lee-damnation with so much of the begin in the few years since think well of their own efforts takfl the matter of witch hunt-tures from students. Thus I do rest of America, and thereby, black athletes came onto white and that they will use that sig­ing, presumably his subject, as not know who is right or he gives us hope that America campuses. This is not even a nificant action as a responsible a very serious issue, and had wrong. I do know, however, just m·ay one day fulfill itself as debatable issue. and professional model for expected that he would treat it that after reading this column I a democracy. To conclude, Perhaps Father their future actions. In that as such. Specifically, I expected cannot take Father Griffin's Secondly, although southern-Griffin needs really to be a way, I do applaud and support that he would use his column as word as any kind of certifica-ers were certainly mired in brother first. Then perhaps he them. Erskine Peters an opportunity to give instruc-tion that Father Wirshkirchen · racism, it is really unfair to would be more sensitive to his Professor of English tions to the students not only is not racist. blame the Holy Cross Brothers' thoughts and language, and not Oct. 13, 1989 about the liabilities of such en-Indeed the racial paternalism morally uncourageous policies N 0 8 d t d't' b t 
gagement, but also to inform he displayed in his article is as of not admitting black students otre arne an ra I IOn ea S On them of more judicious and sound an indication as any that on Notre Dame's southern en-Dear Editor: the Administration Building, fruitful. alternative strategies. he is not qualified to judge rollment. For Princeton Univer-What is Notre Dame football after which the band leads In addition, he would have whether one is making a racist sity, in its much more secular tradition? Is it tailgaters? Is it thousands of cheering fans to 
done well to have applauded the statement. Otherwise, he would tradition, this might pass. But green-jacketed alumni all over the stadium. 
students, who as a result of not have betrayed himself in for priests it is morally inde-campus? Is it long lines at the If you have ever witnessed 
their meetings with Dean Loux, such an obvious manner. Allow fensible. Is he suggesting that Bookstore? How about the this event, you may have won-
found some important weak-me to point to some examples. through Father Hesburgh, Notre Dame Band? dered who are the people lead­
nesses or laxity in our adminis-First of all, his allusion to the Notre Dame became some The Fightin' Irish Band has ing and following the band. As 
trative procedures for filing controversy which often ensues great trailblazer, a type of never missed a home game in you may have noticed, the 
grievances regarding the per-around Jim in Twain's "Huck Catholic Oberlin, in recruiting Notre Dame's 102 years of band's managers speak softly 
formance of professors. And he Fin" is a definite instance of black students? Has Catholic football. In fact, the only thing and carry big sticks. One of 
would have done well to have condescension in his suggestion charity at Notre Dame really that has existed at Notre Dame their many jobs is to preserve 
applauded them by giving his that "out of deference to the out-performed efforts at Stan-longer than the Notre Dame a special tradition, not to men-
support to the democratic re-feelings of [the] students...the ford and Princeton? Band is the priests of Holy tion an Indiana state law: No 
view process which, through teacher might rightfully refer He also makes it sound as Cross.The Notre Dame Band is one cuts through the band, 
working with Dean Loux, they to the black hero as 'Jim' though blacks are the recipi-America's oldest university whether it's members are 
seem to have effected. rather than as 'Nigger Jim' as ents of the utmost charity and band. And before each home marching or at attention. The 
I must say, however, that he he is called in the novel." Fa-of unfair charity. He must re-game the band traditionally law applies to all marching 
bypassed all of his instructive ther Griffin might be a bit more member, though, that it is gives a concert on the ste bands, the tradition only to 
opportunities and that instead mindful in his reading of white people in America, yours. The Irish Guard, also 
he has written a document, Twain's novel to notice that the whether their ancestors owned guardians of this tradition, si­
notwithstanding the fact that narrator never refers to Jim as slaves or not, not black people, lently and solemnly clear the 
he perceives himself as caring, "Nigger Jim;" it is the charac-who have been the greatest way. 
which reads like a word of ters who people Jim's world beneficiaries of several hundred Although Moses took the lib-
caution to "niggers"! In effect, who do this. In missing this years of free black labor! erty of editing God's 11th 
he insults the black students aspect of the narrative perspec-Finally, the poor black athlete commandment, it originally 
(and me!) since he seems to give tive, one misses (or mistakes) a must always get a hard knock. read: "Thou shall not cut 
them no credibility, and he sets major part of what makes the In referring to the black ath-through the Notre Dame 
a poor example for the white novel great and Twain tri-letes enrolled in the Latin Band!" The Irish Guard, man-
students. His literary and his-umphant. And for certain, in classes who did not know "an agers, graduate assistants, and 
torical interpretations are declaring in that heroic moment ablative absolute from a hole in friends of the band treasure 
faulty and very misleading. that he would rather go to hell the ground," the language he this tradition. So remember 
Recounting historical events does not make one racist ~~t~ew~:~~g ~~:~dc~~t ::aW; Dear Editor: tively." I recall Father saying especially in Louisiana, where make you a basket case. I have become disgusted over that in class. Ms. Lewis conve-jazz was born. Jazz evolved a letter to the editor in the Oct. niently forgot the other terms from the hearts of these op-
Greg Coughran 
12, 1989 issue of The Observer, he used: rough and unschooled pressed people. The oppression Assistant Manager 
in which Alva Lewis discussed for the African rhythms, pol-of blacks in the South is a cru­University Bands 
the teaching methods of Father ished and schooled for the Eu-cia! element to the evolution of 
George Wiskirr,hen. There is ropean rhythms. He was com-jazz, and Father's teaching re-
some debate about black stu-paring work songs and field fleets this. There is no racist in-Cheer the Irish to victory over USC 
dents feeling that on several hollers to concertos and sym-tent whatsoever! If he had said Dear Editor: reat.:hed full volume, add aoccasions he made some racist phonies. Any educated person something to the effect that he GoooooooooooooO! 
thunderous "Irish!" We'll usecomments. I remember taking can clearly see that there is no agreed with the way blacks The circling of arms in the air signs on the field to get theFather George's class in the racist intent here, but that Fa-were treated in the early with the long "Go" before each timing right. Beat USC-andSpring of 1989, and I do not ther George was simply stating 1900's, then there is racist in-kickoff is one of the many great remember, GooooooooooOrecall any racist comments. fact. tent. But recalling history traditions we have here at Irish!

Ms. Lewis' one example of I think the misinterpretation doesn't make him a racist. Notre Dame football games. these supposed racist com-arises from the fact that he What's next? A history pro-We would like to expand upon ments is so off-base, it is ap-was trying to set the scene for fessor will be called a racist be­this tradition this year by mak­Don Gomez palling. She said, " ... the the way blacks were treated in cause he teaches about slavery? ing it clear to the opposition Stephanie Hayashi rhythms of African and Euro-the early part of this century. John Romanelli who we are yelling for. Co-Captains pean (music) were considered There is no question that Zahm Hall About one second after the ND Cheerleaders to be 'dirty' and 'dean', respec-blacks were oppressed then, Oct. 12, 1989 ball is kicked and the "Go" l'las Oct. 18, 1989 


ROBYN SIMMONS their knowledge of American events as well as famous au­assistant accent editor and world history and litera­thors and literature. More than ture. The results released last one-third of the questions wen~ ow well do week indicated that if the stu­designed in 1986 to assess 17­dents' answers were to be grad­year-olds' knowledge of history 
college stu­dents know ed on a standard A to F scale, and literatum. their history where a less than 60% seore The following is a reprint of and litera­means failure, more than half the actual test that the Gallup ture? Not 
of the students would have Organization administered to very well, failed. Fifty-five percent of the the 700 college seniors. I low based on the 
students would have received well do Notn~ Dame students know the humanities in com­results of a humanities test con­an F, while 20% would have re­
ceived a D. Only 11% would parison with other eollege stu­
ducted by the Gallup Orga­
have received an A or B grade. dents around the country'! Take nization for the National En­
dowment for the Humanities. The test consists of 87 ques­the humanities test and lind tions concerning important his­out. Answers to the test are on
Last spring, nearly 700 U.S. college seniors were tested on torical figures, dates and page 14. 

The first set of quflstions 20. Which American poet 3. marrying a mortal woman fects of her sin on others eluded all of what is now... deals mostly with literature. wrote the volume of poetry and boasting about her great 4. a woman in a New Engand 1. Spain Please choose your answers for "Leaves of Grass," which in­beauty town who was executed for be­2. Turkey the first section of questions cludes the line "I celebrate my­4. deceiving humanity and ing a witch 3. Brazil from the following list of au­self, and sing myself'? bringing about widespread de­35. Which of the following is 4. Zimbabwe thors. 1. Hobert Lowell struction a play about the experiences of 43. Who ruled England at the 
1
. .Jane Austen 2. Edna St. Vincent Millay a black family as they made tinw of the defeat of the Span­

2. 
Geoffrey Chaucer 3. Achibald MacLeish 28."The Return of the Na­plans to move into an all-white ish Armada? 

3. 
Samuel Taylor Coleridge 4. Walt Whitman tive," "Tess of the d'Ubervilles" neighborhood? 1. Henry VIII 

4. 
Joseph Conrad and "The Mayor of Caster­1. "The Hiver Niger" 2. Elizabeth I 

5. 
Dante 21. Who wrote about the set­bridge" were written by: 2. "A Haisin in the Sun" 3. Catherine the Great 

6. 
Charles Dickens tling of the West in "My Anto­1. Sir Walter Scott 3. "Porgy atid Bess" 4. William and Mary 

7. 
Emily Dickinson nia," "0 Pioneers!," and "Death 2. Thomas Hardy 4. "Blues for Mister Charlie" 

8. 
John Donne Comes for the Archbishop?" 3. Oscar Wilde 44. The rupture within Chris­

36. What is the Golden Hule?

9. 
Feodor Dostoevsky 1. Laura Ingalls Wilder 4. Robert Louis Stevenson tianity that resulted in the first

1. The standard U.S. mea­

10. 
John Dryden 2. Ole Rolvaag Protestant churches is know as.


surement for gold bars
11.T.S. Eliot 3. Louisa May Alcott 29. Two authors who are 2. The law of sociology that
12. 
Halph Ellison 4. Willa Cather known for their well-crafted 1. the Great Awakening 

says in any given society, people 

13. 
Halph Waldo Emerson stories set in the American 2. the Puritan Revolution

with the most wealth dominate

14. 
Hobert Frost 22. In addition to writing South are... 3. the Reformation

3. The idea that moderation

15. 
Nathaniel Hawthorne plays, Shakespeare also wrote 1. Eudora Welty and Flannery 4. the Great Divide 


in all things is best 
16. Homer more than 100 poems in the O'Connor 4. The idea that we should 
17. 
James Joyce form of the ... 2. Louisa May Alcott and 45. Whieh 20th Century 

treat others as we wo(lld have

18. 
John Keats 1. ballad Katherine Anne Porter leader said, "I have nothing to

them treat us

19. 
Martin Luther King, Jr. 2. sonnet 3. William Saroyan and Tru­offer but blood, toil, tears, and

37. In the Bible, Job is known

20. 
Herman Melville 3. ode man Capote sweat," and "From Stettin in

for his...

21. 
John Milton 4. elegy 4. Sherwood Anderson and the Baltie to Trieste in the

1. skill as a builder

22. 
Plato Sinclair Lewis Adriatic, an iron curtain has

2. patience during suffering

23. 
William Shakespeare 23. Who wrote "Native Son," descended across the Conti­

30. What is the novel "1984" 3. prowess in battle

24. 
Harriet Beecher Stowe a novel of black life in Chicago, nent"?

about? 4. prophetic ability 

25. 
Jonathan Swift and "Black Boy," which is 1. Adolf llitler 

1. The destruction of the hu­38. Who was the European

26. 
Leo Tolstoy highly autobiographical? 2. Winston Churchill 

man race by nuclear war who traveled in the United

27. 
Mark Twain 1. Hichard Wright 3. William Gladstone 

2. A dictatoship in which ev­States and wrote down percep­

28. 
Virgil 2. Eldridge Cleaver 4. Joseph Stalin


ery citizen was watched in tive comments about what he
29. Alice Walker 3. LeHoi Jones 
order to stamp out all individu­saw in "Democracy in Amer­
4. Malcolm X 46. Voltaire, Montesquieu and
ality .ICa.?" 
Identify the author of these Benjamin Franklin are all asso­
3. The invasion and ultimate 1. Napoleon
literary works by entering the 24. A Greek play about a ciated with...
takeover of the Earth by crea­2. Lafayette
appropriate number in the woman who defies a king in 1. the Victorian period
tures from outer space 3. Tocqueville 
space provided. order to honor her dead 2. the Heforrnation
31. The Koran is the sacred 4. Crevecoeur 
--1. "The Aeneid" brother is... 3. the Enlightenment
text of... 39. What is Magna Carta'?
--2. "The Canterbury 1. "Medea" 4. the Homantic period
1. Buddhism 1. The Great Seal of the 
Tales" 2. ::~ntigo~~ .. 
2. Islam monarehs of England 
--3. "Crime and Punish­3. Electra 47. What are the first 10 
3. Hinduism 2. A foundation of the British
ment" 4. "Agamemnon" amendments to the U.S. Consti­
4. Judaism parliamentary system
4. "David Copperfield" tution called? --5. "The Divine Comedy" 25. A central episode in the 32. "Walden'' by Henry David 3. The French Declaration of 1. The Bill of Hights 
the Bights of Man 
-6. "Gulliver's Travels" Anglo-Saxon epic "Beowulf' in­Thoreau is a book about... 2. Mayflower Compact 
1. simplifying one's life 4. The charter signed by the
--7. "The Advcntums of volves a... 3. Artides of Confederation Huckleberry Finn" 1. hero's battle with the mon­2. tracing one's heritage pilgrims on the Mayflower 4. Dedaration of Indepen­--8. "The Iliad" ster Grnndel 3. traveling cross-country dence alone 40. The region of Asia known 
--9. "Invisible Man" 2. group of people trying to 48. The Bolshevik Hevolution
4. studying the diaries of pa­as "the r.radle of civilazation" 
--10. "Letter from Birming-escape the plague of 1917 was led by...
is...
ham Jail" 3. monster that dwells in triots 1. Lenin 
1. Egypt

--11. "Moby Dick" Loch Ness 33. In the Bible, who were the 2. Stalin
2. Peloponnesus

4. young boy's battle against first desce.ndants of Adam and 3. Hasputin
--12. "Paradise Lost" and 3. Mesopotamia
a giant Eve? 4. Czar Nicholas II
"Samson Agonistes" 4. Stonehenge
1. Saul and David--13. "Pride and Prejudiee" 26. Who wrote "The Sound 
41. We hold these truths to be
2. Shadrach, Meshach and 49. The Scopes trial was con­--14. "The Hepublic" 
and the Fury," "The Bear," and self-evident, that all men are
Abednego cerned with ...
--lJ5. "The Tempest" "As I Lay Dying?" 
created equal, that they are en­
3. Abraham and Isaac 1. freedom of the press--16. "Ulysses" and Portrait 1. Jack London dowed by their Creator with 
4. Cain and Abel 2. prayer in schoolsof the Artist as a Young Man" 
2. Ernest Hemingway certain unalienable Rights, that 
3. teaching evolution in--17. "Uncle Tom's Cabin" 3. James Fenimore Cooper 34. The novel "The Scarlet among these are Life, Liberty schools

--18. "War and Peace" 4. William Faulkner Letter" is a story of. .. and the pursuit of Happiness." 
4. education in private

--19. "The Waste Land" and 1. the correspondence be­These words are from... 
schools"The Love Song of J. Alfred 27. In Greek mythology, tween a woman and her fiance 1. "Common Sense" Prufrock" Pometheus was chained to a during the Civil War 2. The Declaration of Inde­

50. Who was the primary au­rock as punishment for... 2. the correspondence be­pendence thor of the lkdaration of lnde­The rest of the literature 1. stealing lire from the gods tween a Revolutionary War spy 3. Lincoln's Second Inaugural pendem:e?

questions arc multiple choice. and giving it to mortals and George Washington Address Circle the number in front of 2. killing a sacred animal in 3. a woman who was unfaith­4. "The Rights of Man" 1. Paul Hevere 
2. Thomas Jell'erson

your answer. defiance of religious laws ful and had to observe the ef­42. The Ottoman Empire in­
--~~------~--------------~----· -----------~----------~----------~-----~~ 


ISH _XTRA 
Friday, October 20, 1989 

THE GAME 
The Game 
Time 
TV & Radio 
Tickets AP Rankings 
Series Last Game 
Notre Dame (6-0 
Saturday, Oct. 21 
2:30 p.m. in South Ben 
CBS Sports: Jim Nantz, Pat Haden, John Docker Mutual Radio Network: Tony Roberts, Tom Pagn WVF 
The game is sold out. 
Notre Dame 1s 
usc 9t 

Notre Dame leads 33-2 
Notre Dame 27, Air Force1 
ND SCHEDULE 
Aug. 31 Sept. 16 Sept. 23 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 

ND 36, Virginia 13 ND 24, Michigan 19 ND 21, Michigan St. 19 ND 40, Purdue 7 Notre Dame 27, Stanford 17 at Air Force 
usc 

PITTSBURGH NAVY SMU at Penn State at Miami 
USC SCHEDULE 

Sept. 4 Illinois 14, USC 13 Sept. 16 USC 66, Utah St. 10 Sept. 23 USC 66, Utah St. 10 Sept. 30 USC 42, Ohio St. 3 Oct. 7 USC 18, Washington St. 17 Oct. 14 USC 31, California 15 Oct. 21 at Notre Dame Oct. 28 STANFORD Nov. 4 OREGON ST. Nov. 11 at Arizona Nov. 18 UCLA 
LAST WEEK 
COLOHADO SPRINGS, Colo. -The question finally was answered here Saturday night at Falcon Stadium. 
Air Force is good, but not good enough. 
A bigger and more talented Notre Dame team delivered that message via a 41-27 vic­tory over the Falcons before a record crowd of 53, 533. 
In a game of big plays, the Irish turned in the bigger ones to move to 6-0. It was the 18th consecutive win for Notre Dame and ended Air Force's dream ofan unbeaten sea­son and a possible national title. 
"Our team is very hurt and disappointed," Air Force coach Fisher DeBerry said. "We felt the stage was set for us to win, but we didn't play well enough to beat the national champions. I'm disappointed with the out­come, but roud of the effort." 
The Observer I Eric Bailey

Notre Dame team leader Anthony Johnson makes the cut. 
Responsibility: 
Johnson faces more than defenses 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 

•For Irish tri-captain Anthony Johnson, Notre Dame is not an institution where football is his first and only priority. He has to concern himself with conquering the rigorous academic load as well, but then again, so do the rest of his teammates. 
Anthony is unique, however, because he has tremen­
dous family responsibilities as well. He was married last 
winter, and this past August 15 he became the proud 
father of Taylor Scott Johnson. Life is anything but 
simple for Anthony Johnson. 
"I realize that certain things absolutely must get done 
in each of the three areas of family, academics, and 
football. I always have to make sure I separate these 
three areas, put them all in perspective, and take care of 
my priorities first. I learn something new every day 
about getting things done." 
"I want to do the best I can in all of these areas," 
Johnson continues, "and I try to improve myself so I can 
have a successful life in the future. I especially want to 
take advantage of the academics while I have the 
chance." 

Because he grew up in South Bend, Johnson also has 
to assume the role of hometown hero. 
"That's more of a pressure to just be a good person, 
though," says Johnson, "because so many people in this 
town know who I am. On the field, that doesn't really 
bother me too much." 

Nothing seems to bother Johnson too much on the field. The powerful fullback has punished would-be tacklers throughout his career at Notre Dame, gaining 1330 yards and scoring 29 touchdowns to date. His bone-crushing style is crucial to the Notre Dame offen­sive attack, because he forces teams to respect the Irish rushing game between the tackles, making it easy for his speedier teammates to bounce to the outside when they carry the ball. 
Johnson also plays a pivotal role as a leader on the Irish offense. "Ever since I started playing for Notre Dame, he's been the kind of guy who is right there for you when you get frustrated," says Watters, "You listen to him because he's been through it all before. We're like a family in the backfield. "We're like a machine that just keeps moving." 
Johnson's leadership is going to be crucial this Satur­day for the Irish as they face a USC squad which ranks first in the country against the run. The Trojans return all eleven of the defensive starters who held the Irish to only 253 total yards last year. 
"Most importantly, we have to be physical," says John­son, "When USC knocks us down, we're going to have to get right back up and hit them harder than they hit us. There's now way around being physical if we are going to win this weekend." 
Watters agrees. "We'll have to make it a physical ball­game, play hard, and not make any turnovers," he says. 
The physical aspect of the Irish football team has taken its toll on Johnson this year. Injuries have de­pleted the the backfield to the point where Johnson is forced to play the majority of the game without getting 
a breather. 

"This new role of playing the whole game is tough on me," admit~ Johnson, "It puts a lot of pressure on me, but Ryan Mihalko has provided some help recently and 
we've been working Rodney Culver in to give us some speed, so the younger guys are helping out more now." 
Obvi.ously, with Johnson logging so much playing time, there Is concern for his health. He has had trouble with ankle injuries in the past, and those who follow the Irish 
see A.J.Ipage 4 


r~______
w ~-----· 

The Game... 
IRISH EXTRA 
with a squad that gives up an 
average of 37 per game on the 
ground? 
"I don't think anyone can run 
the football against USC," 
Holtz said. "We do have some 
problems on our team, such as 
our ability to throw the football 
on a consistent basis. In fair­
ness to our team, we don't 
throw the ball a great deal, but 
we're going to have to throw 
the ball against Southern Cal." 
When the Irish do try to run, they'll look primarily to tail­back Hicky Watters, who has 319 yards on 60 carries this season. Watters has been im­proving steadily and had his best game of the season at Air Force, with 96 yards on 11 car­ries. 

Watters is joined by fullback Anthony Johnson, who leads the team with eight touchdowns. Quarterback Tony Hice has been the leading ground-gainer for the Irish, with 436 yards on 82 carries. 
The Irish running game bene­fitted last weekend by the pres­ence of flanker Haghib Ismail at the tailback spot, but lloltz won't make that a permanent move. 
"We can't afford to keep him there," Holtz said. "You'll see him there some, maybe he'll have eight or 10 carries in a game. But he won't be there consistently." 
Ismail's kickoff and punt re­turns have been a significant part of Notre Dame's scoring. He has four touchdowns, two 
Photo Courtesy of USC Sports Information 
Tailback Hicky Ervins is 
another favorite Marinovich 
target, catching 21 passes for 
93 vards. 
The Trojan's success in the air has lloltz worried, espe­cially because the Irish have given up significant passing yardage in thn past two games. 
"We have had problems with the pass defense," Holtz said. ''I'm not sure wn can get those things resolved in such a short timn. It's a combination of things, where one time it's this guy and onn time it's that, and you see a different offr.nse each week. 
"There is one exception to all that. I don't think I've ewer seen a cornerback play as well in the first six football games as Todd Lyght." 
Lyght leads the Irish with five interceptions, and he also has 27 tackles to his credit. Ned Bolcar and Donn Grimm lead the team in tackles, with 55 and 53, respectively. 
On the ground, the Trojans battle an Irish defense that has allowed only 106 yards per game. Ervins leads the way for the Trojans with 671 yards on 126 carries, good for 112 yards per game and four touchdown.; 
Tim RyanDT 
The 6.-'2 260-pound senior is a key factor in the dominant USC rush defense, which allows only 1.4 yards per carry. He has 44 tackles and has forced three fumbles this season. 

on kickoff returns and one on a punt return. llis other score was on a run from the tailback spot. 
Hice will be on the spot as the Irish look to pass more. !lis 9­of-13 passing last week raised his numbers to 44-of-73 (.603) for 738 yards, two touchdowns and three interceptions. 
The Trojan defense is led by three 1988 all-Americans: tackle Tim Hyan and safeties Mark Carrier and Cleveland Colter. Hyan will go head-to­head with Notre Dame's Tim Ryan, an offensive guard. 
"A couple of our kids were kidding our Timmy Hyan," Holtz said, "saying why'd we get you and they got him?" 
Both Hyans have been impres­sive in their own fields, but the Trojan's Ryan will keep the other's hands full, having ac­cumulated six sacks among his 44 tackles on the season. 
Carrier has 46 tackles and five interceptions on the sea­son, and Colter has added 29 tackles in a defense that doesn't let many runners get to the secondary. 
Linebacker Delmar Chelsey leads USC with 60 total tackles. 
Ricky Ervlns 
TB 
Ervins leads the Trojan ground game with 671 yards on 126 carries, good for a 5.3 yards per carry average. He has scored four touchdowns and has a 111.8 yards per game average. 

USC quarterback Todd Marinovich 
Notre Dame defense vs. USC offense 
On offense, the visiting Tro­jans bring a balanced attack, averaging 237 yards per game rushing and 218 per game passing. 
"Offensively, they have an awful lot of explosive weapons," Holtz said. "Todd Marinovich has come along very well, which is not surpris­ing. lie's very intelligent, has the right touch, and really gets the ball to the right people. They have five line receivers, 
particularly (John) Jackson. He's one of the finest receivers in the country." 
Marinovich, the freshman quarterback, is in a completely different mold from Hice. The left-handed Marinovich is strietly a passer, hitting 104­of-169 (.615) with three inter­ceptions and nine touchdowns. lie has negative rushing yardage on the season. 
Ilis top target is Jackson, the split end. Jackson has 414 yards on 27 receptions this season, good for three touch­downs. 
Leroy Holt 
FB Second on the team in rush­ing with 358 yards, Holt aver­ages 6.0 yards per carry. He is also a key receiver, pulling down 14 passes for 156 yards. 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Editor 
They won't be wearing green. That you can count on. 
"We might wear white," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "Because we've been on the road so much. If we do, please excuse us. It's not intentional." 
t\fter playing seven of its last eight games away from horne, the Irish are returning to Notre Dame Stadium, but the schedule doesn't get any easier. 
The Irish are protecting their 18-game winning streak, aim­ing for another national cham­pionship. Southern Cal is look­ing to avenge last season's 27­10 loss, when the teams, ranked one and two, battled in Los Angeles. The Trojans also are trying to break another streak: they've lost six in a row to Notre Dame. 
But those streaks mean nothing when the teams step on the field. because this year, the Trojans are better than last, according to Holtz, and have improved considerably since a season-opening loss to Illinois. 
USC defense vs. Notre Dame offense 
USC's strength is its defense. The Trojans return 10 starters from last year's defense, which shut down the Irish offense for most of the game. 
"They're just outstanding on defense," Holtz said. "The same defense that stopped us last year is back, and they're better this year. I knew they would be good this year because they have four players who were all­Americans. I have never had a football team dominate an of­fense the way theirs did ours." 
They haven't disappointed Trojan head coach Larry Smith either. 
"The defense will be the 
strength of our team, Smith 
predieted before the season. 
It'll be experienced. talented 
and deep." 
The Trojan numbers bad him up on that, especiall~ against the run. In six games, the defense has not allowed < rushing touchdown, and ha~ given up 1.4 yards per carry. 
llow will the Irish, who rei} on the run and average 25{ ground yards per game, deal


Photo Courtesy of USC Sports Information  
Trojan safety Mark Carrier,  one  the top defensive backs in the  
nation  
PlAYERS TO WATCH  

l.anySmlth Todd Marinovlch 
Coach QB In two years as the USC With some game experience coach. Smith has won two under his belt, the 6-4, 210 
Pac 1 0 titles and posted a 23-pound Marinovich has im­6 record. He is looking to proved, hitting 1 04-of-169 break a six-game Trojan los­passes (62 percent), for 1216 ing streak against ND. yards and nine touchdowns. 
Friday, October 20, 1989 IRISH EXTRA 
-

J.J. knows 
By NANCY MAZMAZIAN 
USC Sports Information 
USC split end John Jackson­known as J.J.-has more in common with famous Los Ang1~les athlete named Bo than just sharing the same last name. Consider this: 
LJ. knows football. 
The 5-11 180-pound senior has set 3 Trojan records this year and is within striking dis­tance of another. A 1989 All­l'ac-10 first team candidate, Jackson is USC's all-time re­ceiver (with 128 catches). he also caught a USC record-tying 11 catches at Washington State. and he was on the receiv­ing end of an 87 -yard TD pass versus Ohio State for USC's longest pass play ever. With 27 catches for 414 yards this year, he needs 1 07 yards tp become USC's career yardage leader (Handy Simmrin is No. 1 at 2,015). J.J. also has caught a pass in 31 straight games and could break Simmrin's Pac-10 record of 36. 
J.J. knows baseball. 
Troy's starting centerfielder in 1989, Jackson hit a team­high .356 overall INo. 4 in the Pac-1 0), and-in league games only-he hit a phenomenal .423 (tops in the Pac-1 0 ). A left­handed hitter and thrower, Jackson has a .360 career bat­ting average, earned, unani­mous Ali-Pac-10 honors in 1989 and is a legitimate All­American candidate this sea­son. lie was drafted by the California Angels last June. 
J.J. knows hockey. 
What'! Yep, unlike Bo, USC's Jackson is even skilled in icc hockey. 
"I lived in Illinois until I was 8 years old and hockey was the most important thing in my life at that time," remembers John. who's father, John Sr. was an assistant football coach at Illinois until coming· to USC in 1976 as the running backs coach (through 1981 ). "I loved playing hockey because it was so much fun. Unlike football, you even look forward to going to practice. And I was really good at it. I was the leading scorer in the league and every­one was saying that I would be the 'first black hockey player' someday. I cried and cried when we left Illinois to move to California because I didn't want to give up playing hockey. You know, I still display the trophy I won for being the leading scorer and I still keep my hockey sticks hanging up at home. It was that important to 
me." 
And, it's safe to say, J.J. knows a lot. After all, the multi-talented Jackson is also a football Academic All-American and Pac-1 0 All-Academic first teamer. lie graduated from USC last May with a bachelor's degree in business finance, posting a 3.30 GPA (out of 4.0), and he's now working on his master's degree in business administration. 
So, with all of these skills, what does Jackson plan to do in his future? That may be the one thing J.J. doesn't know. 
"Well, I enjoy football and baseball equally," says John, who prepped at Bishop Amat High in LaPuenta (Calif.). "When I go out on a Saturday and make a catch or break a record, then football's the sport for me. When your team reaches the playoffs or I hit a home run, then baseball's it. It's really 50-50 for me right now. Whichever one presents the best opportunity by the end of the year, that's the one I'll sign with." 
Jackson could have had a lot of opportunities to decide this weekend. That's because the USC baseball team will be play­ing Notre Dame in South Bend in the Irish Fall Classic. 
Unfortunately, the Trojans will be without star centerfielder Jackson, who concentrates on the gridiron during the fall. You see, J.J. has no intention of emulating Bo by playing both football and baseball as a ca­reer. 
"If I can play one sport and do well, that will be great," says John. "If not, I know that when I get my MBA from USC, I'll be able to get a professional job like everybody else, prefer­ably in the sports management business." 
And, if that's the case, he'd be following in the footsteps of another very important person: his father (the senior Jackson now works as an executive for CaliforniaSports, a company headed by L.A. Laker owner Jerry Buss). And that's okay with J.J. 
One of the tings that has happened to J .J. was when he made that 124th career catch two weeks ago against Washington and became USC's all-time receiver. His first reac­
tion  we  to  kneel  and  give  
thanks in prayer.  
"You  should  always  give  

thanks to the man upstairs," says J.J. "I say thanks to Him and to my family. They're in my heart and I know I can count 

USC's multi-talented J.J. Jackson. 
on them. That's why I wear a special towel during the games. On the outside it says 'E.J.' which stands for my grand­mother, Elizabeth Jackson, who passed away this past August. I know she's watching over ev­erything this year. She inspires me because, when I look at the towel, I think about the oppor­tunities I have and I know that I want to make her proud of 
me. 
Photo Courtesy of USC Sports Information 

"On the other side of the towel, it has 'Phil. 4:13' printed on it. That's a Bible verse that says 'I can do all things through him who strengthens me.' I know it's the Lord who is giving me the strength to do all the things I do." 
No wonder J.J. knows so much. 
Irish blow big lead: Davis leads Trojans 
By VIC LOMBARDI 
Sports Writer 
Anthony Davis. 
See the name, and you picture 
a small. explosive runner from 
that tailback factory called 
USC. The name is listed third. 
Time Capsule 
behind Charles White and Marcus Allen, on the all-time Trojan rushing list. A. D. was a unanimous All-America selec­tion in 197 4. 
But to Notre Dame fans, the name is forever etched in the mind as arguably the biggest individual nemesis in Irish football history. No opposing football player dommated Notre Dame quite like Anthony Davis did from 1972 to 197 4. 
Just look at his numbers: 11 touchdowns against Notre Dame in three seasons, includ­ing a record six in 1972 and four in 197 4. He also tallied 68 total points and returned three kickoffs for touchdowns. 
Davis is most remembered for sparking the 1974 USC squad in what was regarded as one of the most dramatic and incredible comebacks in the history of college football. "The Comeback" saw the Trojans erase a 24-point deficit to beat the number-five ranked Irish 55-24 in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. 
At first, it seemed as though the Irish had found the right formula to keep Davis in check. A swarming Notre Dame de­fense limited him to only 40 yards on 11 carries in the first half. as the sputtering Trojan offense mustered only six points. 
The 9-1 Irish, led by quarter­back Tom Clements. looked to run away with the game early. Notre Dame jumped on top 14­0 in the first period after a Wayne Bullock two-yard touch­down plunge and a Clements 29-yard scoring pass to Pete Demmerly. 
The second touchdown was set up after the Trojans fell short on a fourth-and-inches gamble from their own 29. Quarterback Pat Haden tried to sneak over center, but Irish linebacker Drew Mahalic stopped him short. Mahalic also picked off a Haden pass on USC's previous possession. 
After stopping the Trojans on the next drive, Clements put to­gether a 17 -play, 77 -yard scor­ing drive. Dave Reeve kicked a 20-yard field goal after Clements threw incomplete into the endzone on third down, giv­ing the Irish a 17-0 advantage. 
Two possessions later, Notre Dame moved the ball 70 yards in nine plays, mainly on the passing of Clements to fresh­man tight end Ken MacAfee. Mark McLane barrelled nine yards into the endzone on a draw play to make it 24-0. 
With 50 seconds remaining until halftime, the Irish seemed in total command. It was now their game to lose. 
And that they did. 

Haden, who recorded four touchdown passes on the day, masterfully directed the Tro­jans 59 yards in 40 seconds to put USC on the board. An eight­yard touchdown swing pass to Davis followed by a blocked ex­tra-point. 
see A.D.Ipage 4 


64 Mike Brennan ~ 3 R1ck M1rer 71 Dean Brown 
TIGHT END 86 Scott Galbraith 87 Frank Gritfin 

'""Sm;, ~""1$""tlo ~ r~t'~ "~' 
GUARD CENTER GUARD 52 Tim Ryan 55 Mike Heldt 75 Tim Grunhard 56 Tod Healy 76 Gene McGuire 74 Mirko Jurkovic 
99 Tim Ryan 95 J. P. Sullivan 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER~ 

GUARD  CENTER  GUARD  
75 Mark Tucker 67 Kian Ransay  63 Brad Le~gett 73 Titus TUiasosopo  68 Dan Barnes  

NOSE GUARD 
TROJAN
91 Gene Fruge TACKLE 
IRISH DEFE~A~K~E ir~~~~~~~: 
TACKLE
66 Randy Hord 90 Dan Owens DEFENSE 66 Randy Hord 
93 Bob Dahl 90 Jetf Aim 

DEFENSIVE END

· __-____ ~ ~ ~--~ OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
92 :gFlan:J ~-. ~ 8::§ Joi;~:~~;w~~~wsk·l;'·:-~ _
54 Michael Williams 55 Junior Seau 7 Andre Jones 
IRISH OFFENSE 


TACKLE (ffi;) 9 Tony R_ice TACKLE 
98 Kurt Barber --~ INSIDE LINEBACKER ~ 
·.  - 35 Scott Ross  ~  
_: -_  ~6 Brian Tuliau  .  
CORNERBACK~  
9 Dwayne Garner19 Stephon Pace  FREE SAFETY 7 Mark Carrier  ~ CID  

19 Stephan Pace 
TAILBACK 12 Ricky Watters 5 Rodney Culver 
FULLBACK 22 Anthony Johnson 35 Ryan Mihalko 
QUARTERBACK 


TAILBACK 34 Ricky Ervins 
TROJAN 

· 21 Calvin Holmes OFFENSE 
. • FULLBACKn 39 Leroy Holt SPLITEND 

Jrfl"' 30 M1ke Mooney 13 Pat Eilers FLANKER 
83 Gary Wellman QUARTERBACK83 Tony Smith (jU 13 Todd Marinovich

~ 

w~~'s~hultz ~ 10 Shane Foley
fir' 
"""'?:-­

P'P"P" P P f.H~=~ 
40 Craig Hartsuyker 
98 Shawn Smith 

~ ~ ~ ~ \P 45 Devon McDonald '·­
~ INSIDE LINEBACKER ~ 53 Delmar Chesley 48 Matt Gee ~ 
CORNERBACK 1 Todd Lyght

CORNERBACK 
21 Rod Smith ~ STRONG SAFETY 3 Ernest Spears 00 8 Cleveland Colter 26 DeChon Burns 
2 Marous Hopkins INSIDE LINEBACKER ¥4· 

36 Donn Grimm · 
31 Demetrius DuBose 
~ 

FREE SAFETY ~ 
15 Pat Terrell cYD 27 Poorman 
INSIDE LINEBACKER .· r--~­47 Ned Bolcar 48 Michael Smalls 
~CORNERB~CK .· 

STRONG SAFETY 29 Stan Smagala32 D'Juan Francisco 19 Shawn Davis 26 

-
_, 

--~--­
-
Friday, October 20, 1989
IRISH EXTRA 
ankle in the past and still played for us. 
IRISH STATS TROJAN STATS
I don't think the wear and tear will slow 
him down at all as the season 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP TEAM STATISTICS usc OPP
A.J. 
progresses." 

TOTAL OFFENSE 2324 1787 TOTAL OFFENSE 2727 1557
continued from page 1 After the season is over, there is a Total Plays 424 403 Total Plays 457 364 Obviously, with Johnson logging so very good possibility that Johnson could Yards per Play 5.5 4.4 Yards per Play 6.0 4.3 Yards per Game 387.3 297.8 Yards per Game 454.5 259.5
much playing time, there is concern for be playing in the National Football 
PENAL TIES-YARDS 26-241 19-144 PENALTIES-YARDS 55-540 39-341
hi:; health. He has had trouble with an­League. Johnson is one of the most 
FUMBLES-LOST 8-7 18-10 FUMBLEs-LOST 6-2 9-3
kle injuries in the past, and those who underrated fullbacks in the country, and TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 121 102 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 132 85it is likely that he will be chosen in the By Rushing 87 38 By Rushing 66 20 NFL draft this spring. By Passing 31 53 By Passing 58 56 

By Penalty 3 11 Bv Penaltv 8 q
"I would be honored to get a shot in 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV. 38-84 33-90
the NFL," says Johnson, "I'd really like % .452 .367 SCORING TO Ru R R t PA FG TP the opportunity to play professional POSSESSION TIME 197:28 161:32 Rodriguez 0 0 0 0 24-24 6-7 39 football for a few years, but if it doesn't Per Game 33:40 26:20 Ervins 5 4 1 0 0-0 0-0 30 
3 0-0

work out, I know I'll also have the Wellman 0 3 0 1-1 20 
SCORING TO R P R PA FG TP Jackson 3 0 3 0 0-0 0-0 18
benefits of a good education to work 1 0 2 0 -60 2 0 0-0 12
Johnson 8 0 0 0-0 Marin'ch 2 0 0-0 with." Hentrich 0 0 0 0 20-21 8-12 44 Holt 2 2 0 0 0-0 0-0 12 He'll also have a good family life and Watters 5 5 0 0 0-0 0-0 30 Wallace 2 0 2 0 0-0 0-0 12 Ismail 4 1 0 3 0-0 0-0 24 Galbraith 2 0 2 0 0-0 0-0 12
pleasant memories of at least one
follow the Irish realize that if he went Rice 2 2 0 00-1 0-0 12 Foley 1 0 1 0 0-0 0-0 6
National Championship football season. 
0-0 12 0-0 0-0 6
down with an injury this year he would Culver 2 2 0 0 0-0 Emanuel 1 0 1 0 
And it's possible that some day Johnson Aim 1 0 0 1 0-0 0-0 6 Royster 1 0 1 0 0-0 0-0 6be impossible to replace, especially with will return to Notre Dame Stadium to Hackett 0 0 0 0 1 -2 0-0 1 Hopkins 1 0 0 1 0-0 0-0 6
Braxston Banks out for the season. NO 24 18 2 4 21-24 8-12189 Spears 1 0 0 1 0-0 0-0 6
watch yet another Johnson slip on a
But those who worry about Johnson's Opp. 12 2 10 0 8-12 5-5 96 Griffin 1 0 1 0 0-0 0-0 6
gold helmet.

health are wasting their time. At this Runnefm 0 0 0 0 0-0 1-2 3 
"Taylor's only two months old and he 00 lG 2 6-7 194
point In the season almost nothing RUSHING YOS AVG TO usc 25 11 12 25-25 
weighs over 15 pounds already. That's Rice 82 436 5.3 2 38 Opp. 9 0 8 1 8-9 4-7 75 
-could keep Johnson out of the Notre Johnson 333 8
87 3.8 25
really big. Maybe he'll be the next Chris 
Dame lineup. Watters 60 319 5.3 5 53 RUSHING 00 YOS AVG TO lG
Zorich," jokes Johnson. 
"Anthony is the kind of guy that can Ismail 32 187 5.8 1 25 Ervins 126 671 5.3 4 78 
As soon as Taylor gains 255 pounds, Culver 34 145 4.3 2 15 Holt 60 358 6.0 2 55play with adversity and play with pain," he probably will be the next Zorich. Brooks 10 30 3.0 0 8 Emanuel 41 204 5.0 1 38
says Watters, "He's a very, very physical 0 1 13
Mirer 25 11 Royster 7 7.1
Until then, Lou Holtz can be content 7 3.6 50 
person. He's really tough and he knows Mihalko 5 20 4.0 0 7 Hannah 2 46 23.0 0 37
with having one Johnson to lead his
what it takes to win. He has injured his Belles 4 13 3.3 0 6 Foley 7 40 5.7 1 14 team. Eilers 3 13 4.3 0 8 Chavez 4 28 7.0 0 9 Levens 4 6 1.5 0 4 Lavin 2 20 10.0 0 14 Graham 1 5 5.0 0 5 Dixon 2 9 4.5 0 8
The elder McKay really must have in­Setzer 6 5 0.8 0 4 Wallace 1 2 2.0 0 2
A.D. 

spired his team at halftime. The second­Boyd 1 2 2.0 0 2 Marinovich 28 -8 -.3 2 8 half score was USC 49, Notre Dame 0. 
R.Griggs 1 -2 -2.0 0 -2 usc 280 1420 5.1 11 78 
continued from page 3 NO 337 1537 4.6 18 53 Opp. 158 220 1.4 0 na Opp. 202 637 3.2 2 36
"We needed a catalyst, and we got it 
Still, the Irish had some breathing in A.D.'s kickoff return" said McKay of PASSING C A % YOS TO INT lG PASSING C A % YOS TO INT lG Marinovich 104 169 .6151216 9 3 87
room. his team's endzone barrage. 
Rice 44 73 .603 738 2 3 52 Foley 5 6 .833 83 2 0 37But as fast as you can say, "Oh no, Mirer 4 12 .333 41 0 1 18 Ervins 1 1 1.000 8 1 0 8 not him again," Anthony Davis took the McKay installed most of his reserves Graham 1 2 .500 8 0 0 8 Jackson 1 0 .000 0 0 0 0 opening kickoff two yards deep in the in the fourth quarter, and they even had NO 49 87 .563 787 2 4 52 usc 110 170 .6221307 12 3 87 
Opp. 01 177 .571 844 8 11 30 Opp. 104 206 .5051337 8 1 0 na
the endzone and raced 102 yards for success moving the ball on the nation's the touchdown that put the Trojans top-ranked defense. A Haden to Shelton RECEIVING 00 YOS AVG TO lG RECEIVING 00 YOS AVG TO LG right back in the game. Diggs 16-yard scoring pass made it 48-Ismail 17 333 19.6 0 52 Jackson 27 414 15.3 3 87 
Watters 8 133
As the Coliseum crowd grew rowdy, 24. !laden finished with 254 yards in the 16.6 0 32 Ervins 21 93 4.4 1 1 6 
Brown 8 147 18.3 0 38 1 5 9.9 1 9 
so did the Trojans. In a little less than air while Davis led the Trojans with 61 Galbraith 148 2 
Johnson 6 72 12.0 2 27 Holt 14 153 11.1 0 24
10 minutes, USC had compiled 28 more rushing yards on 18 carries. Eilers 3 34 11.3 0 20 Wellman 1 0 202 20.2 3 38 points to outscore the Irish 35-0 in the Phillips intercepted Clements early in Belles 2 25 12.5 0 17 Scott 6 87 14.5 0 24 third quarter. Those scores came on a the fourth period and dashed 58 yards I. Smith 1 18 18.0 0 18 Griffin . 6 52 8.7 1 16 
T: Smith 1 8 8.0 0 8 Emanuel 4 52 13.0 0 29
pair of short endzone bursts by Davis to put the finishing touches on a 55-24 R. Griggs 7 0
1 7.0 7 Wallace 4 81 20.3 2 37
and two long TD passes from Haden to shellacking. Mihalko 1 6 6.0 0 6 Washington 
2 1 7 8.5 0 9 

John McKay (son of the legendary USC Levens 1 4 4.0 0 4 dixon 1 5 5.0 0 5 
coach). NO 49 787 16.1 2 52 usc 110 1307 11.9 12 87 
0 •• 116 1150 9 9 10 61 0 • • : J'! 
THE FIGHTING IRISH THE TROJANS 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE USC OFFENSE USC DEFENSE 
SE 13 Pat Ellers 5-11 193 Sr. RE 37 Scott Kowalkkowskl 6-2 226 .k. SE 1 John Jackson 5·11 180 Sr. OLB 54 Michael Williams 6-4 230 Sr. 83 Tony Smith 6-2 187 So. 45 Devon McDonald 6-3 228 So. 81 Joel Scott 6-2 200 Fr. 98 Kurt Barber 6-4 230 So. ar 64 Mike Brennan 6-5 260 Sr. LT 93 Bob Dahl 6-5 263 .k. aT 77 Pat Harlow 6-7 270 .k. DT 99 Tlm Ryan 6-5 260 Sr. 53 Winston Sandri 6-4 275 Jr. 95 Junior Bryant 6-5 270 Fr. 58 Scott Freier 6-3 255 Sr. 85 J.P. Sullivan 6-5 250 Sr. 00 52 Tim Ryan 6-4 259 .k. NT 50 Chris Zorich 6-1 268 .k. QG 71 Brent Parkinson 6-6 260 Sr. NG 91 Gane Fruge 6-5 260 .). 56 Ted Healy 6-4 265 Sr. 99 Troy Ridgley 6-4 250 So. 68 Dan Barnes 6-4 270 Sr. 66 Randy Herd 6-3 245 Sr. 
c 55 Mike Heldt 6-4 265 .k. Rr 90 Jell Am 6-7 270 Sr . C 63 Brad Leggett 6-5 270 Fr. OLB 55 Junior Seau 6-3 245 .). 76 Gene McGwe 6-5 259 So. 81 Eric Jones 6-6 225 Fr. 73 Titus Tuiasosopo 6-2 270 Fr. 40 Craig Hartsuyker 6-4 215 Jr. 
TG 75 Tlm Grunhard 6-3 292 Sr. DE 7 Andre Jones 6-4 215 .k. SG 75 Mark Tucker 6-3 265 .k. ILB 35 Scott Ross 6-2 235 .k. 74 Mirl<o Jurkovic 6-5 279 So. 98 Shawn Smith 6-3 206 Fr. 67 Kian Ramsay 6-6 275 Fr. 36 Brian Tuliau 6-2 235 Jr. 
n 11 Dean Brown 6-3 291 Sr. E1.S 36 Donn Grimm 6-2 231 .k. ST 76 Bill Schultz 6-5 285 Sr. ILB 53 Delmar Chesley 6-2 235 Sr. 72 Joe Allen 6-4 288 Jr. 30 Nick Smith 6-3 225 Fr. 72 Mrchael Moody 6-7 290 So. 48 Matt Gee 6-3 235 So. 1E 85 Derek Brown 6-7 235 So. t.t..B 47 Ned Bolcar 6-2 229 Sr. 1E 86 Scott Galbraith 6-3 250 Sr. H3 9 Dwayne Garner 6-0 195 Sr. 84 lrv Smith 6-5 235 Fr. 48 Michael Smalls 6-3 223 So. 87 Frank Griffin 6-4 230 Jr. 1 9 Stephan Pace 6-0 190 Fr. -<E 9 Tony Rice 6-1 200 Sr. FCB 1 Todd Lyghl 6-1 181 So. <E 13 Todd Marinovlch 6-4 210 Fr. C8 3 Ernest Spears 6-0 190 Sr. 3 Rick M~rer 6-3 205 Fr. 21 Rod Smith 6-1 t83 So. 1 0 Shane Foley 6-2 200 Jr. 26 DeChon Burns 5-11 190 Fr. Rl 22 Anthony JohrlliOn 6-0 220 Sr. SCB 29 Stan Smagala 5-11 186 Sr. Rl 39 Leroy Holt 6-0 225 Sr. S S 8 Cleveland Colter 6-1 195 Sr. 35 Ryan Mihalko 6-2 234 Jr. t9 Shawn Davis 6-0 t81 So. 30 Mike Mooney 6-2 225 Fr. 2 Marcus Hopkins 6-0 195 So. 1B 12 Ricky Watlenl 6-2 199 .k. ss 32 D'Juan Francisco 5-11 182 Sr. 1B 34 Ricky Ervlns 5-8 190 .k. FS 7 Mark Carrier 6-1 185 .). 5 Rodney Culver 6-0 219 So. 26 Greg Davis 6-1 t98 Jr. 21 Calvin Holmes 5-9 180 So. 1 9 Stephen Pace 6-0 190 Fr. Fl 25 Raghlb Ismail 5-10 175 So. FS 15 Pat Terrell 6-0 195 Sr. Fl 83 Gary Wellman 5-9 175 .k. P 17 Marc Presion 6-1 195 ..... 
8 Steve Belles 6-4 217 Sr. 27 George Poorman 6-2 191 So. 82 Larry Wallace 6-1 170 Fr. 18 Ron Dale 6-3 195 So. K 28 Craig Hentrlch 6-1 175 Fr. p 28 Craig Hentrlch 6-1 175 Fr. PI< 11 Quln Rodriguez 6-0 160 .k. 
94 .k 83 ... 
..--PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
' Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some well­known figure in the Notre Dame com­munity predict the outcomes of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each Molly lllholJey Steve Megargee Greg Guffey Heather Atkinson Theresa Kelly Kathy Cook Mark Green person does against the spread. In Assistant Associate Assistant SMC Sports Editor Random Student Guest Celebrity other words, it isn't enough to pick Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor 33-37 41-29 32-38 the winner of a given game. The per­42-28 37-33 28-28 .471 .586 .457








38-32 son must pick the winner and give the .600 .543 .529 .500 Last week: Last week: Last week: underdog points. Last week: 6-8
Last Week: Last week: 6-8 8-6
Last week:
9-5 5-9 6-8
4-10Wolfpack Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Wolfpack
CLEMSON 8.5 over N. Carolina Sl 
Spartans lllini lllini
Spartans Spartans Spartans SpartansMICHIGAN ST. 5 over Illinois Tigers Seminoles Tigers Seminoles Tigers Seminoles SeminolesFLORIDA ST. 7.5 over Auburn Volunteers Volunteers Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Volunteers Volunteers VolunteersALABAMA 4.5 over Tennessee Razorbacks Razorbacks Longhorns Longhorns Razorbacks Longhorns RazorbacksARKANSAS 14 over Texas Wolverines Hawkeyes Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Hawkeyes WolverinesMichigan 11 over IOWA Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs Cougars Cougars CougarsHOUSTON 58 over S. Methodist Jayhawks Jay hawks Jayhawks Jayhawks Buffalos Buffalos BuffalosCOLORADO 44 over Kansas Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons FalconsAir Force 11 over OKLAHOMA ST. 
Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Corn huskers Corn huskers Cowboys Cornhuskers CowboysWASHINGTON ST. 5.5 over Arizona Wildcats Cougars Wildcats Cougars Wildcats Wildcats WildcatsTexas A&M 6 over BAYLOR Aggies Aggies Bears Aggies Aggies Aggies AggiesSyracuse 6 over RUTGERS Orangemen Orangemen Orangemen Scarlet Knights Orangemen Orangemen OrangemenNOTRE DAME 7 over S. California Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 


3. Thomas Paine 4. George Washington  the Hevolutionary War 2. establish a strong, free press in the colonies  2. Harry Truman 3. Dwight Eisenhower 4. Franklin Delano Roosevelt  2. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony 3. Sandra Day O'Connor and  lution, the French government in 1793 set up what has come to be known as...  
51. Which of the following nations has never been occu­pind by forces of the Soviet Union? I. Hungary 2. Czechoslovakia 3. Afghanistan 4. lsrml 52. When the U.S. entered World War II, which of the fol­lowing were allied with Ger­many? 1. Italy and Japan 2. Soviet Union and Italy 3. France and England 4. Japan and Soviet Union 53. Mayans lived in... 1. Babylonia 2. Mexieo  3. gain ratification of the United States Constitution 4. confirm George Washing-ton's election as the first Presi­dent 60. The Monrce Doctrine was a statement of U.S. policy that. 1. no country once demo­cratic should be allowed to be­come communist 2. trade with Japan should be open to all nations 3. European powers should not extend their influence into the Western hemisphere 4. no foreign power had a right to search U.S. vessels at sea  66. The Shawnee chief Te­cumseh... 1. tried to organize Indian tribes from Canada to Florida into one confederation 2. supported the English dur­ing their first difficult years at Plymouth 3. defeated General Custer at the Battle of the Little Big Horn 4. was relocated to Oklahoma along the "Trail of Tears" 67. Who was the leader of the Soviet Union when the United States entered World War II? 1. Yuri Gagarin 2. Marshall Tito 3. Joseph Stalin 4. Nikita Khrushchev  Margaret Bourke-White 4. Margaret Chase Smith and Frances Perkins 73. In "Brown v. Board of Education," 1954, the Supreme Court decided to... 1. require the hiring of more minority teachers 2. declare racial segregation in public schools unconstitu­tiona! 3. forbid the practice of dis­crimination in hotels and mo­tels 4. mandate busing of students to achieve racial balance in publk schools 74. In the Constitutional Con­vention of 1787, which of the  1. the Reign of Terror 2. the Inquisition 3. the Holocaust 4. the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre 79. The French philosopher Descartes wrote: 1. "To be or not to be, that is the question." 2. "Whatever is, is right." 3. "The life of man (is) soli­tary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short." 4. "I think, therefore I am." 80. Which Roman leader was assassinated because his politi­cal enemies saw him as a threat to the republic? 1. Alexander the Great 2. Julius Creser 3. Claudius  
3. Peru 4. Indonesia 54. Who wrote "Common Sense," a 1776 pamphlet that argued for the independence of the American colonies? 1. Patrick llenry 2. Thomas Paine 3. Thomas Jefferson 4. James Madison 55. The founder of the Peo­pie's Hepublic of China was... 1. Sun Yat-sen 2. llo Chi Minh 3. Mao Tse-tung 4. Chiang Kai-shek 56. In which time period was the First World War? 1. Before 1750 2. 1750·1800 3. 1800-1850 4. 1850-1900 5.1900-1950 6. After 1950 57. The "shot heard around the world" was fired at. ..  61. American foreign policy toward Europe after the First World War is usually described as... 1. isolationist 2. imperialistic 3. interventionist 4. internationalist 62. The constitutional amendment that guaranteed women the right to vote was adopted in... 1. 1783 2. 1877 3. 1920 4. 1933 63. "Heconstruction" is a term used to describe... 1. efforts by historians to establish the exact causes of past events 2. a plan to repair homes, fact"ries and highways dam­aged in the civil war 3. a period during which the federal government adminis­tered southern states prior to their readmission to the Union  68. The Korean War began during the presidency of ... 1. John F. Kennedy 2. Franklin D. Roosevelt 3. Dwight D. Eisenhower 4. Harry S. Truman 69. Three important cultural figures of the Renaissance were... 1. Byron, Keats, and Shelley 2. Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides 3. Machiavelli, Michelangelo, and Leonardo 4. Hobbes, Locke, and Rousseau 70. In which time period was Jamestown founded? 1. Before 1750 2. 1750-1800 3. 1800-1850 4. 1850-1900 5. 1900-1950 6. After 1950 71. The Missouri Compromise was the act that. ..  following concerned the status of slaves? 1. The Bill of Rights 2. The Emancipation Procla­mation 3. The Missouri Compromise 4. the three-fifths compro­mise 75. The controversy sur­rounding Sen. Joseph R. Me-earthy focused on... 1. Investigations of individu­als suspected of Communist activities 2. agitation to secure civil rights for Irish immigrants 3. leadership of the movement protesting the war in Vietnam 4. leadership of the movement to improve veteran's benefits 76. The Emancipation Proclamation issued issued by Lincoln stated that. .. 1. slaves were free in areas of the Confederate states not held by the Union 2. slavery was abolished in the Union  4. Hannibal 81. In which time period did Columbus first land in the Western hemisphere? 1. Before 1500 2. 1500-1550 3. 1550-1600 4. 1600-1650 The final series of questions concerns the U.S. Constitution. Are the following phrases part of the Constitution? Indicate True or False. 82. "Ask not what your coun­try can do for you, ask what you can do for your country." 1. True 2. False 83. "We the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union ..." 1. True 2. False 84. "Prom each according to his ability, to each according to his need." 1. True 2. False  ---. ·~  
1. Gettysburg 2. Yorktown 3. Concord 4. Bunker Hill 58. The Egyptian leader who optmed up talks with Isrml and was subsequently assassinated by members of his army was... 1. Gamal Abdel Nasser 2. David Ben-Gurion 3. Mcnachem Begin 4. Anwar Sadat 59. The purpose of the au­thors of "The Federalist" pa­pnrs was to... 1. win foreign approval for  4. a plan of U.S. economic as­sistance to help Europe recover after World War II 64. In which time period was the Civil War? 1. Before 1750 2.1750-1800 3. 1800-1850 4. 1850-1900 5. 1900-1950 6. After 1950 65. Who was elected presi­dent during the Depression and remained so during most of World War II? 1. Herbert Hoover  1. granted statehood to Mis­souri but denied the admission of any other new states 2. settled the boundary dis­pute between Missouri and Kansas 3. admitted Maine into the union as a free state and Mis­souri as a slave state 4. funded the Lewis and Clark expedition on the upper Mis­souri River 72. Which of the following were leaders in the women's rights movement in the 1970s? 1. Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem  3. the slave trade was illegal 4. slaves who fled to Canada would be protected 77. At the Battle of Hastings in 1066 ... 1. the House of York tri­umphed over the House of Lan­caster 2. the Normans won a major victory over the English 3. the military superiority of infantry over cavalry was established 4. the Thirty Years' War came to an end 78. To suooress counterrevo­ 85. "No person except a natural born citizen...shall be eligible to the Office of the President." 1. True 2. False 86. "Government of the people, by the people, and for the people shall not perish from the earth." 1. True 2. False 87. "Citizens...have the right to work,...the right to health protection, ...the right to housing." 1. True 2. False  


Friday, October 20, 1989

page 14 The Observer 
-
• •
Earthquake raises questions about evil 
When I woke up the morning The implications of this of lives were lost, and thou­chastise us. My point of view is suade religious people to believeafter the earthquake, I noticed seemed to be that if you wanted 
how useless my religious faith to say that human suffering sands injured and made home­as Austin Farrer said, "We do that he does not exist. If you less. Later, if some bereaved not begin with the assurance don't believe he exists, he can
was in giving me any kind of has a father (or can be at­
soul demanded to know, that everything is under the do twice as mueh harm.
handle in so great a tragedy. tributed to one of the principal­"Where was He? Where was hand of almighty Providence. The morning after theTo my thinking, God couldn't ities or powers, in God's army, 
God?", I'd give the same pious We begin from a world touched earthquake in San Francisco, Ihave been more out of the pic-or in the devil's hire,) then you answer that was given so with glories and shot through was in no mood to put God in beautifully at Lockerbie, "He's with agonies, and we call upon the picture, and it would have where you can always lind Him, the God of glory to deliver us been even more unthinkable to

Father Robert Griffin in the heart of suffering, bear­from the wicked fiend ... Heli­blame the earthquake on Satan. ing a lion's share of the pain. gion begins with the God of Anonymous evil is accepted as 
Letters to a Lonely God He's there in the tears of the salvation, and we do not ask something that just happens. If bereaved, and lie weeps with him to save us from himself. we you try nominating God as the them. He's there as a mourner, ask him to save us from our souree, even your fellow Chris­ture if He didn't exist. "Out of have to conclude that the al­
comforting those who mourn. enemy and his. Whether we tians will think you're goingthe picture," that is, not in the leged father remains anony­He's there where He always is, personify the forces of evil or overboard. 
sense that I wasn't praying for mous, even if you believe the fa­hanging from the cross." not is a side issue. If we do per­If you nominated Satan,the victims as well as the sur­ther of suffering is God. 
That's the answer Our Lady sonify them as Satan, we are at you'd be made a laughingvivors, but "out of the picture" If asked, "Who caused the 

could have given to the mother least clear that we do not iden­stoek. You could get your name in the sense that it seems naive earthquake?" you answer, of Dismas, the good thief, when tify them with God." in the headlines of the National 
to try to hang the blame on "Nobody." There's nobody in 
she cried out, "Where is God? The trouble with blaming Sa­Enquirer, "Catholic priest says .... I lim . plain sight whom you can pin Where has He been all this tan for anything is that it is so Satan left his heart in San It seemed like the sheerest the blame on, even if you're re­time?" Mary's answer could anthropomorphic. I'm not sure Franeisco ... and tore the town 
fantasy to imagine that the 
ligious and believe in God. I say have been, as the Christian an­if he exists as a fallen apart getting it back." great Uncaused Cause had a this, not to whitewash the Cre­swer must always be, "lie's archangel, God's ancient enemy. When you think of it, what a 
datn marknd down on I lis cal­
ator. or to shield him from there on the cross, between the The division of the world be­perfect cover Satan has if he nodar when lie would knock blanw; but because you'd have other two sufferers." tween the powers of good and wants to tear down any town in 
down the first domino in a to be in the mood for myth­To tell the truth, as evil seems over-simple and America. Anyone, notieing, lengthy row of dominoes, caus­
making, or fantasizing, if you preacher's talk, it sounds mythological. warns: "llny, folks! That's the 
ing the ripple efTect that would try to imagine God sending an pretty good, and I believe that Still, the Catholic Church has 
Old Scratch out there, knockingtopple all the dominoes, one earthquake, or allowing it to answer could be powerful, never doubted the existence of down the gate. The skeptics 
after another. until finally the come, to punish San Francisco especially at a funeral, when a personal Satan. A few years don't have to kiil the messen­last domino would fall, causing for its sins, or so that lie can everyone is emotional, singing, ago, the Presbyterians, ger. They just wait for him tothe land to shift in a subter­bring good out of evil; or be­"Nearer, my God, to Thee!" I solemnly assembled, affirmed self-destruct as a nut-case. rr 
ranean cavern running under cause he's too careless about suppose one of the reasons their belief in his existence, be­anyone gets blamed for trash­the streets of San Francisco. the way lie governs the uni­they give funerals is so that ev­cause, they said,"There is a 
ing the town like Sodom andIt would seem even more verse; or because He's indiffer­eryone can express his/her spirit of evil operating in the Gomorrah, it will be Satan'ssiruplistic to imagine the Divine ent to suffering, and can't 

emotions and get the ice out of world, which shows itself to be enemy, existing beyond the Omnipotence issuing a com­waste His time tempering the their hearts. A funeral, actu­intelligent and cunning." 
stars.

mand that would activate the wind shorn lamb, as lie ally, is just a fancy name for a If you can't prove that God As earthquakes beeome partSan Andreas fault into acceler­promised; or because lie cre­sensitivity session, held to help exists-and you really can't, of the God-problem, for those
ating, causing a rift in the land 
ated the world as a machine the survivors in need of grief you know, except perhaps to 
who are interested in rnligion.

mass to deepen or widen, or to able to run on its own power, 
therapy. your own satisfaction-how The world is chaotic and either
perform in whatever way that and inevitably, sooner or later Lately, of course, I've been on difficult it would be to prove there is a God. or there isn't. Ifgeologists have been expecting 
the parts were sure to break the campaign trail, trying to that the devil exists as a p!~r­lie exists, how come lin is not a
it to perform since the 1906 down. run the private revelations out son! 
better manager? If lie can't'earthquake; thereby making the So, to be hard-nosed and re­of town for making God Him­Yet, as the Presbyterians ar­keep events under eontrol, what

hills by the bay shake, rattle. alistic, I decided that God has self part of the problem of suf­gued, even when you've ac­does it matter if lie exists orand roll, and thus devastate no visible connection with a fering, which they do when they counted in all the ways you can not? llow could you like Him ifSan Francisco. catastrophe in which hundreds insist that He's threatening to for all the evil that you see, 
lie wants to trnat us like llis there is still a large body of enemy? maledictions whose origins or In the meantime, old Beelze­source we cannot account for. 
bub could bn standing in the There's a mischievous presenee 
Answers to the humanities test 
wings this morning, laughing 

Each of the answers to the (24%) 14. 22 (42%) 15. 23 52. 1 (70%) 53. 2 (42%) 54. 2 
which goes around like a roar­his butt off, beeause he's 
te« is followed by a number in (42%) 16. 17 (20%) 17. 24 (61 %) 55. 3 (64%) 56. 5 (86%) 
ing lion-as the Scripture says scored again. But. he's a sea­
parentheses that represents the (58%) 18. 26 (50%) 19. 11 57.3 (39%)58. 4 ffi7%)59. 3 
of Satan, seeking whom he may soned malefactor, invisible and 
percentage of college students (17%) 20. 4 (62%) 21. 4 (34%) (46%) 60. 3 (66%) 61. 1 (46%) 
devour. anonymous, and so he goes un­
who answered the question 22. 2 (81%) 23. 1 (31%) 24. 2 62.3 (60%)63. 3 (40%)64. 4 
Tom Dooley said that he suspected. But, it ain't neces­
correctly. A score of 78 to 87 (49%) 25. 1 (65%) 26. 4 (44%) (58%) 65. 4 (76%) 66. 1 (32%) 
never took much stock in the sarily so! correct answers is an A, 70 to 27. 1 (62%) 28. 2 (33%) 29. 1 67.3 (72%)68. 4 ~2%)69. 3 
devil, until he found the Chris­Perhaps we should keep and
77 correct is a B. 61 to 69 (23%) 30. 2 (71 %) 31. 2 (58%) (77%) 70. 1 (63%) 71. 3 (46%) 
tian children in Southeast Asia eye peeled for him, duringcorrect is a C, 52 to 60 correct 32.1 (65%) 33.4 (81%) 34.3 72. 1 (61%) 73. 2 (80%) 74. 4 
with drumsticks hammered into break. If he is around, just re­
is a D. and a score of 51 or (72%) 35. 2 (65%) 36. 4 (88%) (48%) 75.1 (81%) 76.1 (21%) 
their young ears. This is the member, he's the enemy of lower is an F. 37.2 (66%) 38.3 ~1%)39. 2 77. 2 (42%) 78. 1 (59%) 79. 4 
way the eommunist soldiers souls, yours and mine. They say 
1. 28 (28%) 2. 2 (62%) 3. 9 (45%) 40. 3 (70%) 41. 2 (90%) (69%) 80. 2 (77%) 81. 1 (75%) 
had punished the children for he usually dresses as an angel
(26%) 4. 6 (55%) 5. 5 (34%) 6. 42. 2 (69%) 43. 2 (31%) 44. 3 82. False (94%) 83. True (91 %) 
listening to the Bible in their of light. God help us and God
25 (47 %) 7. 27 (95%) 8. 16 (69%) 45. 2 (67%) 46. 3 (56%) 84. False (76%) 85. True (86%) 
Catechistic class. 
bless us! Hemember that Darby

(74%) 9. 12 (12%) 10. 19 (47%) 47. 1 (95%) 48. 1 (59%) 49. 3-86. False (33%) 87. False 
Satan's great deception in ()'Gill and I never said we didn't
11. 20 (56%) 12. 21 (33%) 13. 1 (61%) 50. 2 (94%) 51. 4 (83%) (64%) 
America, they say is to per-love you. 

.. 
***REMINDER*** I 
I I 

NOTRE DAME I I CPA REVIEW PROGRAM I I I
FOR SENIORS 
I

PREPARING FOR THE MAY 1990 
I

CPA EXAMINATION 
I

LAST DAY FOR 
I

STUDENT DISCOUNT 
I

$75.00 SAVINGS 
I I 

OCTOBER 20, 1989 
I I I

For information stop by 
I

137 Hayes-Healy Center 
I

or call 239-5285 
I 
.. 

·~--------~-~~--~1 
Friday, October 20, 1989 The Observer page 15 
Heisman race has no frontrunner 
What They're Saying About the Heisman 
"I think (Major Harris) is clearly the superior player based on performance this year and based over prior performance ... It's more up in the air than I can ever remember. There"s always one strong candidate that's become the favorite this far into the season." 
-Mike De Courcy. Pittsburgh Press 
"My ballot's been bouncing all year between Rice. Harris and Dowis, although Dowis as far as l"m concerned lost it last Saturday. He didn't do anything before his team was 21 points down ... Consistently with Rice in there. no matter who's playing behind him or who they"re playing. Notre . Dame ends up with a "W."" 
-Bob Queenan, Cincinnati Post 
''l"m not sure it"s wide-open. I think it"s pretty clear-cut right now. Major 
Harris has gone by the wayside. When you're the quarterback of a top 
team. a pretty good player and on Notre Dame, it's pretty hard not to win." 
-Jerry Lindquist, Richmond (Va.) Times-Dispatch 
"I really don't like this 'Heisman candidate' thing. Everybody was talking about Ware last week, and he gets eaten up. You end up looking very foolish when you make predictions. The guy at Florida State. Peter Tom Willis, who probably won"t get many votes. is probably doing as well as any player in the country. Maybe if they beat Auburn and Miami, you'll see him emerge."' 
-Melissa Isaacson, Orlando (Fla.) Sentinel 
"I think it"s as wide-openat this stage as it"s ever been. I don't think 
there is a favorite though you probably have the names of Harris and Rice ­
Rice because Notre Dame"s number-one and Harris for who he is." 
-Pete Goering, Topeka (Kan.) Capital-Journal 
"When (Dowis) has had the opportunity to run. he's built some big yards, 
but he's also thrown the ball ... I think Rice is probably the favorite. l"ve 
heard a Jot of people discuss Andre Ware. but it's really difficult to win 
when your team is on probation." 
-Bob Young, Arizona Republic 
"(Anthony Thompson) has been consistently good all season long. His 
team hasn't gotten much publicity. but he's racking up incredible numbers. 
He"s probably one of the best runners to play in the Big Ten. and right now 
he should be considered the favorite." 
-Bob Wojnowski, Detroit News 
"(Thompson) deserves it based on what he"s accomplished in four years. Rocket has done some really neat things, but he will have other chances." -Charly Hallman, St. Paul (Minn.) Pioneer Press Dispatch 
"If you take Major Harris ofT that team. they'd have lost all their games 
or be about 1-5. He's the key in virtually every game. You have to respect a 
guy who gets all that attention yet still performs excellently most of the 
time ... I think if Rocket returns a few more kicks, some people might start a 
'Draft Rocket' movement." 
-Bob Keisser, Los Angeles Herald-Examiner 
"I like Dowis and Rice; it's hard to pick one at this point. Rice and Dowis will be the top two ... l think Major Harris is out... l"m not counting out Rocket; a couple more of those games on TV and he may jump up ... Andre Ware is not on TV. He is having a Barry Sanders-type year. but the fact they lost last week brought him down. If (Houston) beats Arkansas, he might have an outside shot." -Tom Shatel, St. Louis Sun 
"If I had to vote on somebody right now. regardless of class, I would vote 
for Raghib Ismail. He's the most exciting player l"ve seen right now. In the 
end, I think I tend to lean toward upperclassmen. I don't know if there is 
one real favorite. I think the leading contender overall is Tony Rice. When 
it comes down to voting. things could change." 
-Irv Moss. Denver Post 
"I don"t like the idea of these polls. I don"t like the idea of having your 
mind made up at this time. If I was going to vote, I would vote for Anthony 
Thompson. I expect he will pick up some momentum. If you had taken this 
poll at this time last year. no one would have voted for Barry Sanders." 
-Bob Hammel, Bloomington Herald 
DESTINATIONS UNLIMITED 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
Midway through the college football season, two Notre Dame players and no frontrun­ners are included in the unofli­cia) list of lleisman Trophy candidates. 
A random sampling of lleisman voters, asked who their favorite candidate was at this point. indicated that Irish quarterback Tony Rice still has a great chance of winning the award, given annually to the top player in the country. 
But Rke is by no means the only name being mentioned. Other candidates include quar­terbacks Dee Dowis of Air Force, Major Harris of West Virginia and Andre Ware of Houston, along with Irish flanker/kick returner Raghib Ismail. 
Ismail has earned national attention with his three touch­down returns and a Sports Illustrated cover appearance. 
"I'd probably vote for Ismail," said George Maselli of the T a II ahasse e ( F I a.) Democrat. "lie has a helluva chance because of his exposure and because no one else has ste~ped out in big games so far. 
This lleisman race, which ap­pears to be the most wide open since Auburn's Bo Jackson edged Chuck Long of Iowa in 1985, seems to have a different favorite every week. 
Rice had the advantage after his Kickoff Classic perfor­mance, then fell back with his two interceptions against Michigan State. That's when Dowis and Harris stepped atop the list. 
Once Harris' West Virginia team tied Pitt and lost to Virginia Tech, Ware stepped to the forefront with his impres­sive statistics. The momentum of Ware, and perhaps Dowis. ended when their respective teams lost last weekend. 
Now these four quarterbacks appear locked up at the top of the list, while voters wait for some player to break out of the pack. 
"I think they should give it to Barry Sanders again," joked the Dallas Morning News' Ivan Maisel, who likes Ware the most right now. "I don't think there is a favorite right now." 
In fact, the only voters who seemed fairly certain about their selections were Midwestern reporters who liked Indiana's Anthony Thompson. 
"He deserves it based on what he's accomplished in four years," said Charly Hallman of the St. Paul Pioneer Dispatch. "I think the Heisman should be based on excellence as a person and an athlete over your career, and I don't think anyone has 
, • • • • • • • •fill1""11""ii•• • • • • • • •I
• 'I• I I 1 I 
I • • • • I I~ 
I • • I ....
1 .... 
I .,•
1: 
I• 
C 
.. 
·~* 
I * 
I # I .# 
I ~ ~ 
Scott and Anthonv 
6­

Welcome to Notre Dame!! We hope you have an awesome weekend. 
Love, Vlkkl and Suzanne 
~ ~ ~ I 
'­11 
.,:•1 
.,
• I .... I 
•.. I 

I ~~~~ •• •• I I I 11 • • • • I
!L 
accomplished that better than Anthony Thompson." 
Despite his remarkably con­sistent year, Thompson has not garnered much attention away from the Midwest. 
"Part of it is there are two Thompsons in the Big Ten," said Bob Wojnowski of the Detroit News, referring to Minnesota star running back Darrell Thompson. "It sounds funny, but outside the Big Ten, maybe they get confused and think that they're both equal and (Anthony) doesn't stand out." 
Florida's Emmitt Smith is another quality tunning back who has not received much lleisman attention despite his steady season. That might be due to the off-the-field troubles that have hit the Gators in the last two weeks, including the forced resignation of Coach Galen Hall. 
The only other darkhorse candidates mentioned were Colorado quarterback Darian Hagan and Florida State sig­nalcaller Peter Tom Willis. 
Many of the voters appeared to be hedging between Dowis and Rice or Harris and Rice. Ware's chances are damaged by Houston's probation and re­cent defeat. 
Air Force's loss to Notre Dame last week might not have hurt Dowis' Heisman chances too much. 
"I think what he's done has 
been based on his individual 
I talent; Tony Rice succeeds with a better supporting cast," said 
~~ I Bob Young of the Arizona 
~ 1 Republic. 
·~ -~1..~-J!IIIIIII----~
KECK'SKLEARWATER COMPANY 
,~ /J~ 
~ 

Bonled Spring Water Cooler Rental Free Delivery 
For Same Day Service Call 
674-9992 before 10:00 AM Monday through Friday 

• • • • • • • • LU!.U.I.U' • • • • • • • • 11..--------• 

WYlr&~w® rMJ©wr&(Q]~ 
and closer to campus 
Linda's Flower Market 
2 doors east of Coach's 
2128 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
(State Road 23) 

South Bend, IN 46637 
Larger store to accommodate all your floral &plant needs. 
"Same Great Service" 
Phone 272-0902 
Saturday is Sweetest Day 
Roses $15.95 a dozen boxed Delivery Available 
''Where Service Is Unlimited" 
Notre Dame 
vs. Miami 
•
NOVEMBER 22-26 Package Includes: 
• Round Trip Air Fare 
• Game Tickets 
• Hotel Accommodations 
• Many Extras 
FOR DETAILS CALL: 234-9099 1 (800) 373-2918 
728 East Colfax Avenue, South Bend, Indiana 46617 
,_.._,
--~----------­
Friday, October 20, 1989[ page 16 The Observer 

I I I 1 
I 
i 
I I 

Can Make for a Comfortable Future in the Real World 
For More Details Contact 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
~ 

---~--------... 
. : ,.... page 17 


By RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 
Three years ago, Notre Dame had no women's varsity soccer team. Now, the young program is on the brink of national prominence. 
The Irish, 12-6 and riding a 10-game winning streak, head to Charlottesville, Va., to com­pete in the Virginia Classic against national powers Virginia, Duke and Stanford. After that, they go on to com­pete in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Tournament in Cincinnati. 
Although it is highly doubtful that the Irish will gain an NCCA tournament bid, next week should give an indication of how far the program has pro­gressed. 
Notre Dame started the sea­son 2-6, but a contest against Indiana turned the season 
[}={]b\[f)[f)W 
~u©~ [Q)b\VJ~ 

WE LOVE VOU 
NON, DAD, & BETH 
around for the Irish. In that game, the Irish defeated the Hoosiers for the first time ever by a 4-1 count. 
"The girls put a great game together and we not only beat them, we pretty well dominated them," said coach Dennis Grace. 
It was not an undermanned Indiana team, either. In fact, many Hoosier players were above college age. 
The strength of the team lies in its freshman, who have really improved as the season has progressed. Leading the way is midfielder Margaret Jarc, who Grace describes as having, "a lot of dribbling ability and ability to see the field well to make passes." 
Wingback Shannon Jenkins and stopper Marta Roema have also contributed greatly to the success of the Irish. 
"Shannon is very fast and te­nacious," Grace said, "while Marta is tough physically with a high work ethic." 
Goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga has been solid in the net, draw­ing high praise from Grace. 
"She doesn't look like a goal­keeper physically, but she's fearless and aggressive when going after the ball." said Grace. 
Not only will ND have these freshman coming back, but Grace is'busy recruiting next year's team. Grace indicated there is an abundance of good women players as a result of the youth soccer programs across the country. 
"Having some scholarships is really going to help this year," said Grace, who is hoping to at­tract many of South Bend's top high school players to stay home. 
Although the freshman are the future, senior co-captains 
K.T. Sullivan and Joy Sisolak have been the backbone of the team all year. 
Sullivan, who transferred from Canisus University after her sophomore year, is de­scribed by Grace as, "a hard worker with soccer savvy who has provided guidance to the younger girls." 
Siosolak leads more by ex­ample than words. "When the game is on the line, we usually look to Joy," said Grace. 
The two will be hard to re­place, but they have provided Notre Dame with a strong soc­cer foundation for the future. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer program is rising at a time when soccer is also becoming prominent on the national level. 
"Women's soccer is the fastest growing sport in America," Grace said. "The 1994 World Cup is here in the United States and we as a soc­cer community see it catching fire at that point." 
Toledo coach receives reprimand 
McLain and I have reviewed the game film with him, and there are some inconsistencies on calls which may have affected both teams; but that will always be a part of any game officiated by human beings." 
Toledo lost to Bowling Green on an 11-yard touchdown pass from Rich Dackin to Ron Heard with 20 seconds left in the game. 
WE"D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITIITION 
0 !llC \\',,,-Js \\'C U\'C ~­
I ' 

Associated Press 
TOLEDO, Ohio -The Mid­American Conference has issued a public reprimand to University of Toledo head foot­ball coach Dan Simrell. 
The reprimand resulted from Simrell's comments on a tele­vised sports show in Toledo affter Toledo's Oct. 14 loss to Bowling Green. 
A conference rule forbids public criticism of game ofli­cials after a game. The MAC also enforces a sportsmanship code. 
MAC Commissioner Jim Lessig acknowledged that Simrell might have had reason for some of his comments. 
"I can understand Coach Simrell's frustrations," said Lessig in a statement. "Supervisor of officials Jack 
Ol{1ENTAL t:YPRc55 
Chinese, Vietnamese and 
American Food 
Fresh Ingredients r,_)29 t;ni\'\'rsill ComnHll1' No Mass Product1ons South lkml li' 
272-6702 
UST ARRIVED • ' 
i I

ONLY $16.95 
2NDFLOOR BOOK DEPARTMENT ~ 
HAMMES 


I ~ ~ ~ 
NOTRE DAME ~ 
~ ~BOOKSTORE ~ 

~ 
~ ~ ~

STORE HOURS 
~ 

~ SATURDAY OCTOBER 21ST ~ 




_..----~--~---------~-~-------------­
-

page 18 The Observer Friday, October 20, 1989 
Players agree Series should continue despite quake 
Associated Press sume the World Series. Twenty­"If you listen to the news ac­baseman said. "We'll play the "I don't think that was a real 
one of San Francisco's ?7 play­counts, they make it sound like game. but it won't be the same. alternative," the Giants' BrettSAN FHANCISCO -They ers were surveyed by the AP, 
the Bay cracked open and ev­Nobody wants to play it now. I Butler said of suggestions that 
were shaken by the earthquake. and Pat Sheridan was the only erything slid in," Giants piteher wouldn't play if they asked me, the Series would be shifted toThey were anguished by the one who would have rather Mike LaCoss said. "Yeah, today. We're not in the mood to San Diego or the Los Angeles
death and destruction. Yet al­called it off. there've been some deaths and play baseball." area. 
most to man, the Oakland "What would I do if it were some losses. But you have to McGwire and others also "I think we should eontinue, Athletics and the San Francisw my decision?" Sheridan said. "I pick up the pieces and start agreed with decision to keep but I don't want to be disre­Giants agreed that the World probably would have gotten on over again." the World Series in the Bay spectful," said Greg Litton, a Series should go on. the plane last night with my That's easier said than done. area. Giants reserve infielder. "At 
Twnnty-one of Oakland's 24 wife." Mark McGwire, for one, said "I don't know if it's in good first, some of us said, 'Shoot, players were surveyed by The His. wife, Melanie, left it was difficult for him to go taste, but if not here -let's go to San Diego and finish Associated Press Thursday, and Wednesday and returned to on. nowhere," said Dave Stewart of it there.' At thn same time, all a~recd with Commissioner their home at Farmington, "To be truthful, it's not going the A's, the winning piteher in though, this has been a bigFay Vincent's decision to re-Mich. to be exciting," the A's first Game 1. event for the Bay area." 
Irish tennis program to another what would undoubtedly shake level? the foundations of the colle­
Tennis 

There are eight freshman on giate tennis world? continued from page 24 the Irish roster of which seven "I am not presumptuous but I 
were ranked nationally in the think we can make it competi­playing at USC this yt~ar," says junior ranks. The cream of the tive," says Bayliss. "All in all we Trojan skipper Dick l.caeh who erop is Chuck Coleman of Lake will be ready for the match." has piloted into the NCAA Wylie, S.C., who should play in ••• Championships in every year of the top half of the singles' Notre Dame's No. 1 player, his career and a No. 10 team lineup this season. Coleman Dave DiLucia, lost in the first ranking in the 1989 season fi­was one of the 1989 Top 15 round of the Volvo All­nal poll. "There is a trend in collegiate tennis recruits. lie American Championships to the tennis now with most of the top also captured two national No. 10 player in collegiate ten­Ameriean high sehool players­doubles championships in 1989, nis John Stimson of Alabama,4­like Michael Chang and Pete including the Olympic Festival 6,6-3,6-4. Sampras-turning professional title. Dil.ucia who is ranked No. 26 instead of going to college. I "Chuck is a very strong in college tennis, now moves to would rather recruit a top in­player,"said Bayliss. "His style the consolation bracket where ternational player than bring in of play is very adaptable and he will compete against Jeff an unproven and inexperienced has good leadership quality." Gross of Kansas, a 1989 All­Ameriean player, one who And can B iss & Co. ull off American, this morning. wouldn't be able to compete at 
this level." For Notre Dame, competing at 'this level' is a n~alistie goal but one that still must prove on a long term basis. And the best time to start their quest is to­day. llow will Bob Bayliss's squad compete at this high level of eollegiatn talent? They will compete with Walter Dolhare, who will assume the No.1 position in DiLucia's ab­sence and at least four fresh­man. "It is pretty unheard of playing that many freshman," said Bayliss. "But they have played well and have already been ex­posed to top collegiate players in the Volvo and Navy Tournaments. They shouldn't be afraid of anyone. They should be able to handle this challenge. I don't think they're smart enough to know they are supposed to lose." Who arc these wonder kids who have the potential to take the 

qp (ill [ill 00 ~ [}{] (ill 1J(ill WITH 
C 0 A C JBI lLO1U IBI0 IL/Jr~ 
HELP COACH HOLTZ AND THE NOTRE DAME MBA ASSOCIATION SUPPORT DllABlETJE§ JRJE§JEARCH 
FRIDAY 12-6 LAFORTUNE SATURDAY 9-1 CENTER Rm. 108 
All Proceeds to AMERJCAN DIABETES RESEARCH and NOTRE DAME MBA ASSOCIATION INSTANT POLAROIDS: $5.00 DONATION Bring your own Camera: $3.00 DONATION Images made from life-size photo of Coach Holtz 

Press herefor a great 
CRESTED BU'&~ 
NOVEMBER 22-26 *4NIGHTS !•,. f. 
S TEA Nt B 0,_,• 
data processing career. 
JANUARY 2-12 *5OR 6 NIGHIS f.;_~ BRECKENRI~~ The right time. The right place. Blue Chip. Green light. State data processing equipment. You'll JANUARY 2-7 *5 NIGHTS 1-~13 State Farm is hiring. Farm is one of America's leading go as far and as fast as you can. 
If you're a senior with a data insurance companies. Through You couldn't have a more solid 
WINTER PAii...,
JANUARY 2·7 *5 NIGHTS f• f76 processing, computer science or innovative marketing and a proud base to build a career on. VAIUBEAVERCAF.~ math background, there may be service tradition it has become 
Contact your Placement 
JANUARY 5-12 *5OR 7NIGHIS f•~ a very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and Director. Our recruiter will
.•1. waiting for you in one of the homeowner's insurer, and one of 
be on campus 11-06-89 
. ~ ~ 

largest corporate data proces~­the top life insurance companies 
• Or write Ron Prewitt, Assistant 
ing facilities in the country. in the country. 
Director, Home Office Personnel
There are actuarial and audit­You'll receive expert training.
8th AttNIAL CllllfGim WINTER Sill BREAKS Relations, One State Farm Plaza, TOll FREf NORMATION I RESERVATIONS 
ing jobs open, too. You'll work on state-of-the-art 
Bloomington, Illinois 61701. 
t·BOG·32t·591t 



Friday, October 20, 1989 
The Observer page 19 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Basketball ticket sales begin Monday, Oct. 30. Seniors may buy tickets on Monday, juniors on Tuesday, sophomores, grad and law students on Wednesday and freshmen on Thursday. Applications will be in students' mailboxes by Oct. 30. Tickets for the 11 home games are $55 for lower arena and $44 for bleachers. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team's scheduled trip to Palo Alto, Calif. for the Stanford Tournament has been postponed indefinitely in the wake of the earthquake which shook northern California Tuesday. 
NVA aerobics will be in session during fall break at 5:20 
p.m. Monday and Wednesday with stretcherise at 5:20p.m. Tuesday and Thursday. There will also be water aerobics. Anyone in NVA aerobics may attend. 

Ifthe pressdidn"t tell us. who would? 
. ,·•·•1"1'''•" .,, 

QUEEN OF PEACE MINISTRIES 
MEDJUGORJE PRAYER MEETING 
FATIMA RETREAT CENTER every SUNDAY EVE:NING! Medjugorje introductory session 7:00P.M. to 7:30P.M. Medjugorje Prayer Meeting ......... 7:30 P.M. to 9:00P.M. 
"If I wasn't a Pope, I'd be in Medjugorje already!" 
-John Paul II 
ND runners face weekend tests 
Irish men look to avoid another upset at hands of USC 
By MARY GARINO 
Sports Writer 
The 12th-ranked Notre Dame men's cross country team will get its shot at a USC team also as the Irish host the Trojan runners at the Burke Memorial Golf Course on Saturday morn­ing. 
The Irish have had two weeks since their last meet to prepare for USC, who upset the Irish last year in California. Notre Dame went into the meet ranked 12th in the nation but came away with a disappointing defeat by a score of 21-34. Irish head coach Joe Piane says that last year's loss is reason enough to be wary of the Trojans tomorrow. 
"We ended up ninth in the country last year, but USC beat us, so that speaks for itself," Piane said. "They are unranked at the moment but they are a good team." 
Irish captain Mike O'Connor says that the Irish are looking to repay the Trojans for last year. 
"We just want to be ready for USC," O'Connor stated. "They beat us last year out there and we'd like to return the favor." 
Another reason for Notre Dame to be prepared for the Trojans is Fredson Mayiek, the top runner on the USC team and the winner of last year's dual meet with Notre Dame. Mayiek, a native of Kenya, eventually went on to qualify for the NCAA Championships after placing third in the quali­fying meet for his district. 
Challenging Mayiek for the lead will be Irish runners O'Connor, Tom O'Rourke and Ryan Cahill. Piane is happy to report that his three top run­ners are healthy again after battling illnesses at the begin­ning of the year. 
Junior runner Pat Kearns is also expected to make a contri­bution to the Irish effort. Kearns, an Arts and Letters major, sat out all of last season after a hernia operation. This year, Kearns has been battling back and has become one of the top runners for Notre Dame, including a 17th place finish at the Notre Dame Invitational 
two weeks ago. 
"The Notre Dame Invitational helped to build my confidence," Kearns said. "I sat out last year, and I was injured again over the summer, so I've had a tough time getting going. The race made me feel more confi­dent, and I've been coming along fairly well." 
The USC meet will be the last home meet for the Kearns and the rest of the Irish and the last regular season meet before the championship races that start at the end of this month and continue through the middle of November. Notre Dame hopes to use the USC meet to prepare them for these important races. 
"A really good performance will give us impetus for the rest of the year," Piane stated. "Our whole year has been built to­ward November." 
The meet will begin at 11 am, even if there is snow on the ground. Piane says that the course will be marked with flags if necessary, but the race will be run. 
Depleted women's squad to face MCC foe Marquette 
By TRICIA GROHMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team has high hopes for victory in its dual meet against Midwestern Collegiate Conference rival Marquette Saturday at 10:30 AM on Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The Irish, who competed against Marquette Sept. 29 at the National Catholics, hope to repeat their successful past 
STEAKS PRIME RIB SEAFOOD 
performance. At the National Catholics, the Irish placed fifth with a score of 132 while the Warriors took 13th with 309. 
"We beat them pretty soundly at the National Catholics, " said Irish coach Tim Connelly, "and we're hoping to do the same this weekend." 
The loss of two top seven runners however could play a role in Saturday's match-up. Senior and team captain Wendy Murray is currently recovering from pneumonia and junior Jenny Ledrick is injured. 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 
MON-THURS 11 :30AM-9:30PM FRI-SAT 11:30AM-10:30PM SUNDAY 11 :30AM-9PM SUNDAY BUFFET 11 :30AM-3PM 
*N.D. a 
~ 
a. 
:Il 
ui 

a. 
u.s. 20 E. 

~ ..;...t------1~ 
ui 
:::i
293-0126 

1308 S. Nappanee St. Elkhart, IN 46516 ,~--;;::.-) 
* ~ 
l,,}~;,,l \a·•J\.'2;1 Szechwan Garden 
~~~~~~~ 
"Of course the loss could af­fect our overall performance, but we've been running well as a group lately and I think we still have a very good chance of winning," said teammate junior Renee Kaptur. 
According to Connelly, the team has been training very well in the last few weeks. 
The Irish have been led in ev­ery meet this season by sopho­more Lucy Nusrala, while ju­nior Terese Lemanski and sophomore Amy Blaising have emerged as consistently strong performers for the Irish. 
This is the last regular meet for the Irish before the MCC competition on October 28 in Milwaukee. 
"This is a very big meet for us in terms of preparing for the MCC meet, " said Connelly. "Last year, we placed 2nd over­all by two points and this year we hope to do at least as well. It's been our goal all year." 

More people have survived cancer than now live in the City of Los Angeles. 
We are winning. 
IAMERICAN 
f~. 


Friday, October 20, 1989 

page 20 The Observer 
Browns have talent to expand Chicago streak to three 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
up the pace offensively while sophomores David Bankoske, Mike Curry and Pat Arendt will also help contribute to the brunt of the team's scoring. 
Notre Dame is hoping fresh­men Sterling Black, Dan Marvin and Curtis Janicke prove to have a nose for the net as well. 
Schafer has had his players on an arduous weightlifting program in the off season in hopes of preparing his squad for its hard-hitting opponents. 
"I definitely think the weight training is going to allow us to do more corner to corner on the ice rink," Shafer said. "We've been preparing for this season for so long and we're a 

COME SEE THE BEST! 
. 

NOTRE DAME MEN'S TENNIS vs 
s 

ECK TENNIS PAVILLION FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20th 6:00pm 
USC's First ITiidwest dual n1eet eve.-~ Tickets on sa!e at Gate 10 oF the Notre Dan1e ..JACC 
$5 -cou.-tside $3 -General 4dmission 2 -student racult and staFF 
Associated Press 

LAKE FOREST, Ill. -They've lost two straight and are in very real danger of making It three. 
They are next-to-last In de­fense in the NFL, ahead of only the 1-5 New York Jets. 
Can this really be the Chicago Bears? 
The same Bears who have not lost three straight since Mike Dltka became coach In 1982? 
The same Bears who have prided themselves on "tough, Bears defense" and have domi­nated the league in defense while winning five straight NFC Central championships? 
It's the Bears, all right, though hardly the same ones, and that's a big part of the problem. 
As unfamiliar as the predicament are many of the players on the field, thanks to a combination of injuries and a transition to rookies like end Trace Armstrong and corner­back Donnell Woolford. 

The big loss has been veteran tackle Dan Hampton, who had career-threatening knee surgery. Armstrong, still learn­ing his position and the league, went down with a sprained an­kle. 
Defensive end Richard Dent was coming back from a bro­ken leg last season, then suf­fered a deep thigh bruise that has limited his availability. 
Suddenly, the Bears found themselves with only Steve McMichael healthy in their once-dominating front four and virtually no pass rush. 
Quarterbacks Vinny Testaverde of Tampa Bay and Warren Moon of Houston took advantage and beat the Bears by scores of 42-35 and 33-28 the past two weeks. Next up in Cleveland on Monday night is Bernie Kosar, who's hungry to break out of a slump that has him ranked lOth among AFC quarterbacks. 
The Bears scored 63 points in the two losses -a total that not long ago would have led to four straight victories for Chicago. 
Because of injuries, William "The Refrigerator" Perry had to be pressed into full-time ser­vice, with rookie Tony Woods filling in at the other defensive end. Perry's role was to have been spelling Hampton and McMichael to keep the veterans fresh. 

little stronger and a little faster now, so I think we've decided what kind of team we want to be. 
"So far positive attitude has been the key and that will have to be a constant win or lose. I want to see the same attitude on Feb. 18 that I saw at Sept. 18 and if I do I think we'll have been successful." 
The Irish will get their first chance to prove how far their attitude will take them during October Break as they clash a powerful squad from the Rochester Institute of Technology on Oct. 26 and 27 in the confines of the Joyce ACC. 
HA 


'•• ' 
Love. 
C6rl6, Tr6cy. 
K1m. Jennifer, end S-J 

Friday, October 20, 1989 
The Observer page 21 
Agassi upset in Japan Open 
Men's soccer hosts Loyola tonight 
games. "We're getting hack to­gether again. There was a time when we weren't always up for games," said Kaemmerer. "Like in the Santa Clara tournament, we didn't do as well as we ex­pected. Now we have to carry on what we did against Valparaiso and DePaul." 
Kaemmerer played a key role in both those Irish victories. He scored a goal and had two as­sists against Valparaiso, in the 9-2 Irish romp. The freshman from California then had nu­merous chances in Wednesday's 5-0 trouncing of DePaul. His recent play is indicative of the team's as a whole. Both are falling comfortably into a groove and are on the rise. 
Grace put the season, to this point, in this perspective: "We are a young team and thus bound to some inconsistency, but hey, people forget that four of our losses are to four of the current top six ranked teams in the country (#1, #2, #4, #6)," said Grace, whose team stands at 7-5-3. "There's no shame in that. We got our noses blood­ied, but we're all right. If people don't watch out for us, we can hurt them." 
The other game over fall break takes place next Sunday at Krause Stadium against Bowling Green. The Falcons are well coached and, according to Grace, typically upset a lot of teams. 
They did just that to Grace's 1986 squad at Bowling Green 3-1. The Irish had better not relax too much over the break, because the Falcons will be ready to play. 
This last stretch of regular season games (three in all, if the Loyola game is played) could be a harbinger of future playoff results. The Irish seem to have found strong team unity. They have definitely gained valuable experience playing against high caliber teams. That trend continues with this week's matches. 
The experience is particularly 
crucial for a team as young as 
~~=~r~~j ~~~~~u~~es!~~~~~ 
ing to make some noise in the MCC and NCAA playoffs. It is certainly not out of the realm of this team's capabilities to do 
so. 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -Ronald Agenor of Haiti continued his mas­tery over American Andre Agassi Thursday, knocking the No. 2 seed out of the Seiko Super Tennis Tournament with a 6-0, 6-2 victory in 52 minutes. 
"I don't know why I couldn't get a point," Agassi, ranked No. 5 in the world, said of his third loss in three meetings with Agenor, ranked No. 39. 
Third-seeded Jakob Hlasek of Switzerland was another upset victim, losing 4-6, 7-6 (9-7). 6-4 to American qualifier Rick Leach. 
Top-seeded Stefan Edberg of Sweden trounced Australian John Fitzgerald 6-2, 6-3, avenging his loss to Fitzgerald in this tourna­ment's semifinals last year. 
Agenor kept Agassi on the run with accurate place­ments on the artificial court in the Yoyogi National Stadium. Agassi committed 39 unforced errors to Agenor's 27. 
"He played his best game against me. I have met him three times but won only 10 games," Agassi said. 
Leach, who teamed with American Jim Pugh for the Australian doubles champi­onship in 1988 and 1989 but is ranked 340th in singles, needed two hours, 13 min­utes to beat Hlasek, ranked No. 12. 
In Friday's quarterfinals, Edberg meets Henry Leconte of France, who beat Eric Jelen of West Germany 4-6, 7-6 (7-3), 6-4 Thursday. 
Canadian Grant Connell, blasting 13 aces, beat sixth­seeded Andres Gomez of Eduador 2-6, 6-1, 6-4. 
By CHARLIE POLLARD Sports Writer 
October break is thankfully upon us at Notre Dame. While most students flock to their various homes across the coun­try however, certain Irish var­sity squads will remain together in preparation for upcoming games at home and abroad. 
The Irish men's soccer team is among them, with a road game at the Air Force Academy on Tuesday and a home date with Bowling Green next Sunday. 
The team will leave for Colorado Springs Saturday. Although the Irish will have two full days before Tuesday's match, they will not be "vacationing" in the true sense of the word. 
Head coach Dennis Grace wants to practice hard in those two days, in part to familiarize and condition his players to playing in the high atmosphere hards, typical of any academy team. We'll definitely have our hands full if we're not ready to play." 
Indeed, Air Force was a pre­season Top 20 team in the Soccer America poll. Also, the Falcons return six starters and overall, eighteen lettermen. This will be the first meeting ever between the two teams. 
The Irish may have a match today with MCC rival Loyola, weather pending. Yesterday's unexpected (and unwanted) snowfall casts doubt on this evening's scheduled game. A decision to play will be made today between the two head coaches. 
The game means little to Notre Dame in terms of confer­ence standing. The soccer team has already clinched the North Division MCC title. They are 5­0-1 in the division, the only blemish a 2-2 tie with Marquette on September 24th. 
The winner of the MCC tour­


VIC'S SUBS DELIVERS BEFORE DURING AFTER 
Before the game order During the game, relax Aller the game don't your favorite VIc's sub and enjoy! Let VIc's fight the traffic, let early and we'll deliver deliver to your door so Vic's deliver to you. by game time. We take you won't miss any of We take orders until orders at 8:30 a.m. the Irish victory. 1 a.m. 
Free Delivery 
113 Dixie Way North 271-8113 -Roseland) 

Giant 6 Ft. Party Subs available for tailgating. Order by 6 p.m. Friday. 
--~

~----------K-----------~~----­
page 22 The Observer 
Three fencers will compete in Cuba 
By CHRIS FILLIO 
Sports Writer 

Three members of the Notre Dame fencing teams will begin their competition this year at a slightly higher level than tradi­tional college action. 
Sophomore sabreman Ed Baguer, and junior sisters Hachel and Kelly llaugh will travel to Ilavana, Cuba, on Oct. 27 for this year's Junior Pan­American Championships. 
"It's good for them to have this kind of exposure," said as­sistant coach Yves Auriol. "It's going to be a tough tourna­ment. It may be a little too soon for us because it's early in the season. But Ed, Rachel and Kelly have all been working hard lately." 
Baguer boasts a wealth of in­ternational competition, most recently at the Summer 
Trojans 
continued from page 24 

"Then tell them this-'CSC, 
you'rt~ no Miami.' " 

True, we hate Miami. We have since that curtain call of Faust in 1985, when Jimmy Johnson was still passing with a 40­point lead late in the game. 
We hate teams we cannot 
beat. like the Hurricanes. We 
hate them early and we hate 
them oft1m. 

I guess College of Southern California thought we would be hating them back in August, that shirts would be rolling off the presses with the Top 10 reasons to hate the Trojans, that all life would halt this week in preparation for "The Game." 
I know a lot of people, and they are thinking about a lot of things this week-how many deficiency slips will result from midterms, how they will get home for fall break in this October blizzard, who they will ask to their hall formals, what they will eat for dinner, whether or not their relatives survived the earthquake in Northern California. 
What they are not overly worried about is College of Southern California. They will be ready come Saturday. The fact of the matter is that Notre Dame has 12 of these "big games" this year. When you're No. 1, everybody takes a bigger swing at you. 
The fact of the matter is that "The Game" is not necessarily that great any longer. Notre Dame has won the last six meetings by a combined count of 178-74. We have no real rea­sons to hate College of Southern California. 
Like Notre Dame of the early 1CJ80s, the luster is gone from the Trojan program. The Trojans have not produced a lleisman Trophy winner since 1981 and have not been named Associated Press national champs since 1972. 
It might be easy to hate College of Southern California. It might be easy to make jokes of the fact that esc is the third­best educational facility in the area behind UCLA and Disneyland. It might be easy to make fun of the public adminis­tration majors that line the Trojan press guide. 
It might be even easier to hate the Trojans after coach Larry Smith's sour grapes re­marks in 1988. Smith said his team had outperformed the Irish in everything except the final score. This year, Notre Nationals in Orlando, Fla. He also has some experience against the Cubans, having par­ticipated before in the Continental Cadet Games for fencers 17 and under. This weekend, he will travel to Portland, Ore., for a Junior Circuit event. 
Baguer, who has been taking four lessons per week, has shown the intensity and desire necessary to compete on the in­ternational level. 
"''ve been training pretty hard both this summer and in the past two months," said Baguer. "I feel really psyched about going down there. But I've been trying not to worry too much about the Cubans and the tough reputation that they have." 
The llaugh sisters have been nothing short of amazing since arriving on campus three years ago. At the Junior World Championships last year, Hache) finished 26th overall in women's foil, while sister Kelly joined her in their one-two fin­

ish for women's epee. 

"I know the Cubans will be really strong," said HacheI, "but Kelly and I should be well­prepared." 
The fencing teams will both began their regular season schedule following the break, as they travel to Penn State in early November. 
While most students will be taking time off to relax and en­joy the week-long break, the work for these three athletes will not take a time out. 
"I think it's good for the kids to be participating in the tour­nament," said Auriol. "They'll have the honor of representing both the University and the United States at the same time. 
Friday, October 20, 1989 

Aunese still inspires unbeaten Buffaloes 
Associated Press 
BOULDEH, Colo. -They shout his name after every huddle, wear his number on their wristbands and stare at the haunting picture tapnd to his old locker, the one of him being hoisted on their shoulders after the spring game. 
Sal Aunese has been dead nearly a month, but his former Colorado teammates still consider him a vital part of the nation's third-ranked team. 
"J feel like's he watching over us," sophomore Darian Ilagan, who replaced Aunese at quarterback, said. "If we don't play well, we feel we're lntting him down." 
That has yet to happen. Inspired by Aunese. who died of cancer Sept. 23, Colorado is off to a 6-0 start that has triggered talk of a national championship. If' the Buffaloes beat Kansas on Saturday, they'll be 7-0 for the first time in 52 years. 
"I think this is the best team we've ever had," said Joe Hornig, an All-American lineman on the 1961 Colorado squad that won the school's only outright Big Eight title. 
"This team has everything going for it -good coach­ing, good personnel and a lot of motivation. They want to win ii for Sal." 
The spirit is catching in the Denver area, where college sports normally are second to Broneornania. "Go Burr· signs are everywhere, Colorado T-shirts are selling briskly and the team's recent home game against Missouri was a sellout -the first for a non-Nebraska game sinee 1983. 
"This is my 12th year here and l'vn rwvcr seen anything like it," David Plati, the sehool's sports information director, said. "All the closnt Buff fans are coming out of the woodwork." 
Dame wants to leave no doubt in the minds of the Trojans. 
You cannot hate a team you have had so much success against over the past few years. esc may have a legitimate claim to the past with Notre Dame, but the Irish stand alone in the present. 
Southern California has no particular affiliation with any place; they are from a region. I don't think of football when I think of Southern California. I think of the San Diego Zoo, Tom Lasorda and pasta, Mickey Mouse and AI Davis. 

As I write this column, the snow falls on Notre Dame Stadium. The last time CSC played in snow was in 1957 at Notre Dame. The Irish won 40­12. 
Notre Dame students may have hated esc then, but 30 years make a lot of diffcrenee. 
Special Touches. It's your gift with any 12.50 Estee Lauder Purchase. 
Special Touches gift includes collection of beauty touches. Little things that will mean a lot to your looks. You.'ll ~et: -Knowing Whipped Body Creme -2 All-Day Lipsticks -Swiss Performing Extract -Demi-Matte Makeup 
One gift per customer. Quantities Limited. 
For your purchase. we suggest these treatment products: Eyzone Repair Gel, $35. Night Repair, $35. Skin Defender, $45. Future Perfect, $45. All products made in USA. 
Return Engagement. Pick up your gift and we'll give you another bonus: an appointment for a personal skincare and makeup consultation. You'll get special beauty tips and an Estee Lauder surprise to take home following your one-on-one session. 
Cosmetics. Gift available through Oct. 21. While supplies last. 20,000 total gift units at all Hudson's stores. 
H U D''{S 0 N ' s 

STUDENTS SAVE 
10% 
AND LOTS OF TIME­
LET US PACK AND/OR 

SHIP YOUR ITEMS FOR YOU. 
===BllXES/rl/5=== 
SHIPPING + PACKING + CRATING 
MOVING & S1DRAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
EliP. -M-F 9AM·7PM
2 7 55 55 
-7 SAT 10AM-7PM
I:El. 
SUN NOON·5:30PM 

5818 Grape Road, Indian Ridge Plaza, Mishawaka Between T.G. Maxx and Venture 

Friday, October 20, 1989 The Observer page 23 
-..

LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Friday ACROSS 24 Alphabetic 44 Marble sequence
3:30 p.m. Philosophy Department presents, "Eliminative 1 Predicament 45 "We'll taka­
25 Mission kindness "·
Materialism and Self-Referential Incoherence," by Victor 1 Breakfast drinks 
beginning Burns

Reppert, Library Lounge. 13 Classroom 
26 Fat fowl 46 Swamp

missile 14 Vitamin C 47 Colosseum
27-beet source 29 Botanical sport section 15 Some exeE:s 30 --Dykst"ra, 
48 Massenet opera 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
give out these former Met 49 Parts of flivvers 17 Cries 31 Actor Vigoda 52 Mercury, e g.
18 "His wife could 
32 Counsel

Friday 
--lean" 53 Hangnest or 
3:30 p.m. SMC Soccer vs. IUSB. 19 Believer in 35 Kind of consent firebird Suffix 40 HIJacker's
6 p.m. Tennis vs. USC, Eck Pavilion. 54 Flower parts 21 Parisian's airport specialty
7:30 p.m. Soccer vs. Loyola University. 
55 Did some22 Mound in the 41 "-long, life rootingMissouri " 

Saturday 
23 Baritone Alan 42 Troy, NY, sch.
9 a.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Center 
43 Land parcel DOWN

for Social Concerns. 9:45a.m. Women's cross country vs. Marquette, Burke 1-Folly Memorial Golf Course. (Alaska) ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 One-year-old, 
usually 3 Auto race 4lnquires

MENUS 

-.
5 Noted architect 
6 Borg nine and Hemingway 16 Helmet-shaped 29 Madame Curie 41 They often see part of a flower stars
32 Peck role 7 Whirlybird 
11--Raton, Fla. 44 Biography of 
33 Espirit -­
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 8 Praying figure 20 Bugler's pad Shelley by 
34 The line in 20/20
Baked Cod Baked Ham 9 Guitar device 22 Silly Maurois 23 Like some 35 Bomb heavily, in 45 Entertainer
Beef Pot Pie Beef and Bean Burrito .:;.+;~~ 10Arlen's "-for 
cookies RAF. argot Channing
Cheese Stuffed Pepper Monterey Bake My Baby" 
25 Helpful Latin 47 Palindromic
36 "Good fellow I" 
Tangy Grilled Chicken Deli Bar ~::...j.:.!+=-1 11 Emperor 
phrase name
Augustus's 37 Kind .of bed
26 Cheese chunks 48 Knight clothes? 
son-in-law 

28 Beethoven wrote 38 Put side by side 50 Catch a zor two =..J...:....L:.:.J.:..:~.L..:...I~ 12 Assembly for her 39 He has his pride 51 Crude metal 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1-lt.LLa? Vl\llEi HP.RDWP.R£? 'it:S, l'~ C:~Ll\1'1<0 m SEE IF ~OU SELL BLP.'ST\1>\G CAPS, DETOt-{1\TOR.':., Tlt-<\1:.\'S 1\I'ID 
WIRE. 


~ll~/ 
~ . 
-~ 
Wilbur and Wendel 
JUST TI-l£ WIRE? OK, ~R<:;ET \\. \)a 'ia\l R£N\ \3ULL Do Z.ERS OR Bf>..C.KHCl£5 ~ 
i 

BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
1-\0, ~. />. I(Ci\C>T\ll'E.R. W~'\ 1Xl ~T 1\U... I ~E£0 '5Qllo\E­T\-\II'I~ l'J()R£ LIKE A 
WR£C'f(\NG B/>.Q. \)() iOU Kt-{oW W\-lt:RE I ClYJlD GIT ll.t-l'{T\-IING L\1(£ T\-1/>.T? NO? 
OK, GGODB'!f.. 
I 
Jay Hosler 



Featuring: 
TROJAN HORSE on Fieldhouse Mall with IFill.IEIE Soft Drinks 4:30-6:30 Parade around campus with the TROJAN HORSE 6:30-7:00 7:00-8:00
PEP RALLY for STUDENTS (not ·ust Alumni!!!) at JACC 
Sports
page 24 Friday, October 20, 1989 
NO tennis faces challenge in No. 11 USC 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 

The biggest challenge in the history of Notre Dame tennis takes place today under the friendly shelter of Eck Tennis Pavilion at 6 p.m. This year's No. 11 collegiate team and a traditional tennis power, the Trojans of USC, march into their first Midwestern dual match ever and are waiting to tangle with Notre Dame's unranked and aspiring squad. "It is a honor, a challenge and
• 
a responsibility," said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss. "It means a lo to us. USC is in a position to which we aspire. In twenty years. we would like to 
Irish may play tough Trojan squad without top player 
have people speak of Notre Dame tennis in the same terms as the speak of USC tennis to­day." The match will be the first dual match of the 1989-1990 season for both squads. Although there is a sharp contrast in the history of the two programs, both of the current squads do have some similarities. Both are young and inexperienced at the collegiate level, yet both are talented. The Trojan roster boasts two 
juniors, two sophomores and five freshmen. Although they are a young team, the Trojans are not without experience in 
Heisman Hopefuls 
~:~~
... 

important matches. The USC squad is full of top interna­tional players that have some­how have found a home in Los Angeles. 
One rather large difference be­tween the two squads is that USC will have their No. 1 player and the Irish will not. Notre Dame's No.1 player, Dave DiLucia, is currently playing in the Volvo All-American Championships in Athens,Ga. DiLucia is not expected to re­turn in time for the match. USC's No.1 player Byron Black was scheduled to play at the Volvo but cited academic re-
There is ~o real frontrunner in this year's Heisman Trophy race, but the · with Notre Dame's Tony Rice include (clockwise from top left} Indiana'S''"".r:nn•wn: Virginia's Major Harris, Notre Dame's Raghib Ismail and Air Force's Dee Dowis: 
Snow postpones baseball games 
Basketball scrimmage will feature many giveaways 
Observer Staff Report 

Snow has forced the 
postponement of both 
Thursday and Friday night's 
South Bend Tribune Irish Fall 
Classic game between the Notre 
Dame and Southern California 
baseball teams. 

The games have been reschedule for 8:30 p.m. Saturday and 12 noon Sunday at Stanley Coveleski Stadium in South Bend. Tickets are $2 for student. faculty and staff general admission, $3 for other people's general admission and $5 for box scats. 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team will hold an intrasquad scrimmage at 10 
p.m. Friday, an hour later than originally scheduled. 
Admission to the scrimmage is free. 
Weekend Schedule of Events Friday, October 20 6 p.m. Tennis 
Notre Dame vs. USC at Eck Tennis Pavilion 7 Pep Rally Joyce ACC Fieldhouse 
7:30 Soccer Notre Dame vs. Loyola at Krause Stadium 
8:3o Basketball Men's lntrasquad Scrimmage at Joyce ACC 
Saturday,October 21 

10:30 a.m. Cross Country Notre Dame women vs. Marquette 
1 1 Cross Country Notre Dame men vs. USC 
2:30 p.m. Football Notre Dame vs. USC 
8:30 Baseball NO vs. USC at Covaleski Stadium 
Sunday, October 22 Noon Baseball NO vs. USC at Covaleski Stadium 
sponsibilities and declined the invitation. USC features players from six different nations as well as three different states. 
Moreover, these players are the Who's Who in international tennis. Byron Black, the Trojans' No. 1 player and a native of Zimbabwe, was half of the tandem that captured the 1989 NCAA Doubles Championship. Black is ranked 13th in the pre-season ITCA poll and earned All-American honors in both singles and doubles. Black's resume in­cludes the honor of the 1987 Zimbabwe Sportsman of the Year as a mmnber of Zimbabwe Davis Cup. "Byron is a terrific baseline player," explains Bayliss. "lie hits with both hands from both sides and he can hurt you off the ground. lie has a great a return of serve." Continuing the international flavor of the USC squad is Pierre-Andre Gennilard, a na­tive of Geneva Switzerland and winner of the 1988 Swiss Junior Championships. Gennilard holds the No. 2 spot on the squad. And why is the Trojan roster inundated with foreigners? "We are fortunate to have some very talented foreign players 
see TENNIS/ page 18 

Time healing wounds of Irish hockey squad 
By MOLL V MAHONEY Assistant Sports Editor 
Time has a remarkabl1~ heal­ing quality. 
And after the Notre Dame hockey team's disappointing 10-26-2 record last season, Irish head eoach Hie Schafer is hoping that a year's time has been a panacea for his squad. 
"I think we learned a lot from last year," Schafer said. "Our team was wounded at times last season, but those wounds have healed. 
''I'm pleased with the attitude of the returning players. They've experienced the highs and lows and I know they pre­fer the highs. I'm pleased with the new players we've got as well, so I'm optimistic." 
The Irish faced a slew of tal­ented teams last year and this season will no different. 
Notre Dame will face the toughest stretch of games on its schedule in December as it takes on Ferris State and then Wisconsin, Boston College and Minnesota-Duluth in the Milwaukee Tournament. 
Schafer readily admits that his squad was out of its league 
on several occasions last year. 
and with the loss of 1988's top 
scon)rs. Matt llanzel and 
Bobby llnrbnr to graduation. 
onl' might think things would 
again look dismal. 
But Schafer has faith in the 
mixturP of youth and nxpPri­
ence suiting up for tlw Irish 
this war. 
"Last year we were bPatnn by some very powerful teams, and this year I think our schedule will still be very challenging, but it won't be quite as OVI'r­whnlming. 
"We have a very good goal­
tender in Lance Madson and thP 
play of s1~niors Bruen Guay, Tim 
Kw~hl. Mike LehPrr and Kevin 
Markovitz will make a differ­
ence this year." 
Madson, a senior from MinnPtonka, Minn .. is once again expected to be a stalwart performer in thP net. having picked up extra I)Xperii)JH:I' in the off Sl)ason. playing in the World University Gaml's in Bulgaria. 
Ill) tallied a 4.WJ against av­erage as well as the team's only shutout last year and spent 
see HOCKEY I page 20 

Hype in short supply for NO-USC contest 
The smog-filled voice on the oth1~r end of the phorw be­longed to a student journalist from the College of South1)rn California, the college with no identity, thfl college that will someday fall into the Pacific Ocean. 
Greg Guffey 

Assistant Sports Editor 


lie asked my editor if sonwone on our staff could pen a column about Saturday's Notre Damc-CSC contest, The Glamour Game, The Hivalry. lie didn't want a feature about Lou Holtz or the Irish players, but one about the campus happenings and thoughts of the students heading into Notre Dame's fifth Game of the Century in nine months. 
I didn't know quite how to approach the column, so I called Lloyd Bentsen in Texas and asked him how he would address the issue. 
He said, "Tell the College of Southern California that you have been involved in the hype for the 1988 Miami game, that you started hating the Hurricanes in 1985 when they sent Gerry Faust packing with a 58-7 loss, that you were there for the pre-game fight in the tunnel, that you were also there 60 minutes later to celebrate the 31-30 win. 
see TROJANS/ page 








