
~­

VOL. XXIII NO. 67 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Trips to Mexico will be assessed 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 
Trips to Mexico should be assessed on an individual basis and members of the student organizations wishing to organize such trips should be consulted in an effort to prevent any problems that might arise on them, according to a Student Senate resolution passed Monday. 
Student Activities recently banned trips to Mexico on the basis of the lan­guage barrier, illness caused by unsani­tary conditions, expensive personal costs, and the issue of personal safety and security. 
The resolution said that the decision to ban the trips was based on problems that arose on the senior class trip to Cancun this year, and quoted a memo from Student Activities stating that problems had arisen out of a lack of "civil British influence." 
Student Union Board representatives, who put forth the resolution, said they hoped it would be used for future refer­ence. The Acapulco trip planned for spring break has already been can­celled. 
North Dining Hall will have extended dinner hours during finals week. Additionally. the first floor and base-
see MEXICO I page 4 
Better heart disease, cancer treatments ahead 
(AP)-Two big killers will count their victims in the mil­lions in the 1990s-13 million American lives will bn claimed by heart disease and cancer if the current fatality rate contin­ues. 
However. medical researchers hope to strike some blows against these deadliest enemies in thn coming decade. They don't expect cures. Instead, they look for new insights to help them attack the diseases from many directions. 
For example, a better under­standing of cancer-causing genes and how to block them, and of cancer-suppressing genes and how to harness them, would give medical scien­tists crucial new weapons to wield against cancer, which will kill an estimated 500,000 Americans this year. 
New discoveries about the relationship of diet to heart disease might lead to innovative treatments for the nation's leading killer, which caused 767,000 American deaths in 1988-about one-third of the deaths overall. 
Just about everybody has heard about eating right to avoid high levels of cholesterol in the blood. Cholesterol can promote atherosclerosis, a narrowing of the arteries that sets the stage for heart at-tacks. 

But in the next decade, "We may learn that what you eat is more important than just what it does to your cholesterol," said Rodman Starke, the Amer­ican Heart Association's senior vice president for scientific af­fairs. 
"We are beginning to see glimmers of evidence" that some dietary substances may affect atherosclerosis risk in­dependently of any impact on cholesterol, he said. They may also promote blood clotting, which can cause heart attacks when it occurs in narrowed ar­teries that feed blood to the heart muscle, he said. 
Scientists may also find better ways to prevent heart attacks as they learn more details about what triggers them in people with atherosclerosis, said James Willerson, chairman of the heart association's re­search committee. 
He also said researchers may find a way to identify people at risk for sudden cardiac death, a lethal disruption of the heart's pumping rhythm, and develop better techniques to prevent it. 
Other potential developments Starke or Willerson suggested for the 1990s include: 
•Greater 
understanding of the complex events that pro­duce atherosclerosis, perhaps leading to treatments to reverse or avoid it. 

•Improved 
clot-dissolving drugs to stop heart attacks. Researchers would like to re­duce side effects, confine the anti-clotting effect to places where it will do good, and stop the effect of the drugs when 


see KILLERS I page 4 
University may forward mail home to students 
Special to The Observer 
Mail received during Christ­mas vacation may be forwarded to students' home addresses, but such activity is at the discretion of the University, said Sigi Loya, student senator. 
Loya, who discussed various mail problems with the post office, said that the office deliv­ers the mail to the University, who then decides whether it will be forwarded. 
Students sending packages by mail need not wrap the parcel in brown paper, a common misconception, according to Loya. The box should be se­cured tightly and properly ad­dressed. Using twine is, how­ever, discouraged for packages. 
Placing campus mail in fed­eral mail boxes impedes deliv­ery greatly, he said. Most dorms have campus mail boxes, but mail can be taken directly to the mail room in the Admin­istration Building. 
Once federal mail is picked up by the hall carrier it is consid­ered "delivered" by the post of­fice. Each dorm representative is therefore responsible for any mail that is lost in the process of delivery. 
In the case of express mail, the dorm representative re­ceives the parcel, not the stu­dent. The student can then pick up the parcel from his carrier. 
Loya said that many foreign and upperclass students have post office boxes for extra se­curity . He said that although regulation mail is delivered to the boxes, UPS does not serve them. 
It's problematic when stu­dents write their hall address as a post office box because it 
see MAIL I page 5 
ND Economics Prof. Davisson dies at 60 
By MATT GALLAGHER 
News Editor 
William Davisson, Notre Dame professor of economics, died Saturday following surgery. 
Davisson, 60, passed away after a prolonged illness, said Assistant Dean Roger Sikurski of the College of Arts and Letters. 
He was one of the pioneers in the use of computers in the study of economic history, said Sikurski. He was also in­volved in the development of computer aided instruction (CAl). Davisson, along with several colleagues from Notre Dame, was the recipient of a 1973 Sloan Foundation grant to implement and test CAl in 
economics  classes,  said  
Sikurski.  
Davisson  specialized  in  

American economic history, microeconomics, statistics, and computer applications. 

Professor William Davisson 
Sikurski said Davisson acted as coordinator of computing for the College of Arts and Letters in recent years. He was instrumental in the creation of the Arts and Letters Computer Laboratory and the integration of computing into the teaching, research and administrative life of the college, Sikurski said. 
Davisson had taught at Notre Dame since joining the faculty in 1966. He received his BA and MA in Economics and History from the College of Puget Sound in Tacoma, Washington, and his Ph.D. from Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. 
Davisson served with the 
U.S. Occupation Forces in Japan from 1951-1953. He also taught at Eastern Mon­tana College of Education, Whittier College, and Sacra­mento. 
Davisson was the author of over 70 articles, books and monographs. 
Sikurski said the College of Arts and Letters was consid­ering naming the Arts and Letters computer laboratory after Davisson, in honor of his contribution to computing at Notre Dame. 
As of Monday evening, fu­neral plans and plans for a memorial service were not yet firm, said Sikurski. 
~ ---~----------------,
...
--\ 
Tuesday, December 12, 1989 
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN WEATHER 

There's a lot to learn outside the classroom 
Students often cite --------­the axiom that there is just as much, if not Scott more, education to be Brutocao 
gained from experi­ences outside the classroom as inside Sports Copy it. 
This is especially Editor true of the Notre Dame London Program, where many --------­
students claim the 
academic load should be lessened to take advantage of one of the world's richest urban experiences. The London Program is brimming with educational potential, most of it outside the classroom. 
OnE) Sunday I was returning to my residence from doing homework in the Notre Dame building. I had almost reached my residence when I saw fireworks Forecast: 
Partly sunny and cold to­day, with highs in the teens to lower 20s. Mostly cloudy Wednes­day with a chance of snow or flurries. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
exploding in the sky. I thought of the 
holidays, but Sunday, Nov. 5, was not one to 
my knowledge. I also heard music, so I 
followed the sounds to satisfy my curiosity. 
The fireworks were being released two 
blocks from the Notre Dame flats. A crowd 
gathered between cars, fences and other 
everyday streetside obstructions. They were 
watching as bonfires were lighted, music 
played and missiles of celebration were 
launched. I turned to a young couple who 
informed me it was Guy Fawkes Day. 
Guy Fawkes? Oh yeah, the guy who tried to blow up Parliament in the early 17th century. We learned about him in a British history lecture. The couple explained that it's not a holiday, but an occasion to get together and have a barbecue. 
It's not a c11lebration of radical dissidents who take violent measures to achi1we their 
purposes, but to recognize the superiority 
of democracy. 
Often they actually burn effigies of Guy FawkP.s, recreating the P.xtremism charac­tnristic of his time. To the couple, however, Guy Fawkes Day is an excuse to have a barbecue with neighbors and maybe see some fin1works. 
This is an example of how education out­side the classroom is just as important as thn education a person gets insidn it, and lhn only prnrequisites for this course arc kt~eping your eyes and ears open. 
I think that in London the outside educa­tion is more important because of the quality and sheer volume of experiences available. Besides, second-hand instruction is nnver as good as the real thing. 
From this incident I learned about Guy Fawkes Day and its true meaning for the English. The concept of Guy Fawkes Day beeame tangible because of my experiences, whernas bnfore it was only one of a thou­sand names we encounter in our British history class. 
True, education in the classroom aug­mented and enhanced my experience on Guy Fawkes Day, but the experience itself clearly filled a void that academics alone couldn't. 
.\'colt Brutocao is a junior in Notre /Jame's London Program. 
OF INTEREST An El Salvador prayer service will be held on the A Spanish Mass will be held today at 7 p.m. in the feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe: "A voice for the Poor" Keenan Hall chapel for Our Lady of Guadalupe. Keenan with Erica Dahl-Berdine in the Center for Social Concerns, resident Eduardo Margo will preach at the Mass. The 
8:30 p.m., followed by a reception. Mass will be held in Spanish. Traditional Spanish music will be played before and after Mass.
Saint Mary's Wind Ensemble, under the direc­tion of Douglas McConnell, will perform at 8 p.m. in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. 
WORLD 
A dramatic opposition victory ended the Commu­first time since 1971. The Soviets expressed "favorable in­nists' 41-year domination of the government in Prague, tnrest" in a Western plan to boost thn intnrnational role Czechoslovakia on Monday. Throughout the city thou­of Berlin, aceording to a joint statement. sands of people rang bells or shook sets of keys in sup­port of the pro-democracy protests. 
The Communists' policy-setting Central Commit­tee mel today following Bulgaria's largest pro-democracy 
San Salvador President Alfredo Cristiani and of­
rally. Ecoglasnost was approved by the municipal court in ficials close to the investigation of the slaying of 6 Jesuit Softia. making the environmental organization Bulgaria's priests last month say the woman who linked the army to first legal independent political group. 
the killings failed six lie-detector tests. The woman said that the gunmen wore camouflage uniforms, but has The four World War II Allies-France. Britain. the changed her story snveral times. according to the offi­
Unitnd States and the Soviet Union-met in Berlin for the cials. 
NATIONAL 
The Bush administration says its surprise move to Oprah Winfrey won the most honors at the 22nd rekindle ties with China's hardline rulers comes because Annual NAACP Image Awards which will broadcast Jan. further isolation of China could compound the tragedy of 6. She won entertainer of the year; aeting in and produc­Tiananmen Square. ing the TV movie "The Women of Brewstnr Plaee"; and a 
journalism award. 
The infant who received the nation's first living­donor liver transplant, Alyssa Smith, was in critical but Congress is hoping to resolve the unanswered stable condition at the University of Chicago Medical Cen­questions surrounding the Navy's inquiry and subsequent ter Monday. She underwent the second operation in two finding that a troubled sailor apparently caus1~d the fatal days to stop bleeding on the surface of her new liver, re­explosion aboard the USS Iowa. Hearings on the explo­ceived two weeks ago. sion are scheduled for today and Wednesday. 
INDIANA 
The Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation Hoosier Lottery Director Jaek Crawford resigned District has been concerned about overcrowding on the Sunday night after members of Gov. Evan Bayh's staff South Shore Railroad and hopes to purchase 14 new pas-confronted him about information they had received senger cars. However. the NICTD board has not yet ap-about him. Crawford's reasons for stepping down were proved the purchase, according to the South Bend Tri-"personal" and "not governmental," said Bayh. 

P0. Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's Staff:  
Ad Deslgn  Production  News  
Shannon Roach Val Palette Meg Callahan  Kathy Gliwa VIewpoint  Christine Walsh Janice O'Leary  
Sports Molly Mahoney  Molly Schwartz Janice O'Leary  Accent Colleen Cronin Stephanie Snyder  
Systems  
Gilbert Gomez  
Michael Gargiulo  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) •S publoshed Monday through Fnday excepl dunng exam and vacauon penods The Observer IS a member ol lhe Assocoaled Press All reproductoon nghts are reserved 
bune. 
CAMPUS 
The investigation of an Oct. 20 hit and run accident on Notre Dame Ave. is complete, accord­ing to Rex Rakow, director of Security. Security has passed the information on to the county prosecutor and the suspect will be tried in a grand jury hearing, he said. The victim of the ac­cident is a Notre Dame graduate student named Zheng-de Wang. He is still listed in serious con­dition according to a St. Joseph's Medical Center representative. 
MARKET UPDATE 

NVSE Index 
192.83 
S&P Composite /\ 
348.56 1.f 0.13 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2728.24 {?-3.20 
Precious Metals Gold {?-$5.00 to $421 .80/ oz. Silver{?-4.5¢ to $5.805/ oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
• 
In 1792: In Vienna, 22-year­old Ludwig van Beethoven re­ceived his first lesson in music composition from Franz Joseph Haydn. 

• 
In 1870: .Joseph Hainey of South Carolina bncame the first black sworn into the U.S. House of Representatives. 

• 
In 1901: The first radio sig­nal to cross the Atlantic was picked up near St. John's, New­foundland, by inventor Guglielmo Marconi. 

• 
In 1913: Authorities in Flo­rence, Italy, announced that the "Mona Lisa," stolen from the Louvre Museum in Paris in 1911, had been recovered. 


\
-------------------------------------------------------------------------.----------------~ 
Tuesday, Dec~ber12, 1~98~9~------------------------------T~h~e~O~b~se~N~e~r~----------------------------------------------JP~a~g~e~3 
Most transplants possible, 
given availabir 
PITTSBUHGH (AP) -Transplant surgeons expect to be able to replace almost every part of the human body during the 1990s, but they fear such medical feats will have little impact un­less more people donate organs. 
"I sne another decade of progress equal to the last decade. but that won't happen until we figure out the organ donor problem a little bit better," said Dr. Hob1~rt Corry, of the University of Iowa and president of the United Net­work for Organ Sharing. 
Organ donation has bPen at a stand­still thn past few years, despitn laws re­quiring hospitals to discuss the subject with relatives of brain-dead patients. 
"One of the goals is that one of these days organ donation will be viewed as commonplace as giving blood," said Linda Sheaffer, director of the federal Division of Organ Transplantation. 
"Can we achieve that in the 1990s? I'm just not sun~." she said. 
Doctors hope to case the crunch in the '90s by transplanting animal organs into humans. Such a cross-species transplant has not been attempted sincn 1984. when California surgeons put a baboon's !wart into a 12-day-old girl. ShP died 20 days later. 
Advances also are nxpected in the quest for artificial organs, especially hnart-assist devices, that can be im­planted permaw~ntly: 
l.nss llashy. but no less important, are efforts to attain long-term transplanta­tion success without anti-rejection drugs that suppress the patient's entire immune system. and to nxtend the shelf life of donat1~d organs. 
Doctors are working to perfect pan­creas. lung, intestinal and reproductive organ transplants. and to replace limbs 
with cadaver parts.  
About  the  only irreplaceable  part  
seems to be the brain.  
"It's  a  question  of  identity,"  said  

transplant pioneer Dr. Thomas Starzl 
of donors 

of the University of Pittsburgh. "If you found a body for the brain, you'd transplant the body to the brain. It's a subtle distinction. I wouldn't have any plans for that." 
Whatever the advances, however, the donor !low may remain a problem. 
"The whole thing would be revolution­ized overnight if you could do something about that (the donor problem)," Starzl said. "When there's a crack in that wall, it's going to be like the Atlantic Ocean pouring through." 
Studies show almost all Americans are aware of organ donation and view transplantation favorably. But only a slight majority express willingness to give loved ones' hearts, livers, kidneys and other vital parts so others may live. Fewer still want their own organs do­nated upon death. 
A record 18,500-plus people are awaiting organ transplants in the United States, according to the organ network. The list grows daily, as do the number of nagging questions concern­ing who gets what and who pays. 
"In some respects, I think it's just as well there's a limited supply of donor organs," said Hoger Evans, a senior re­search scientist at the Battelle Seattle Research Center. 
"When you think of 1,647 hearts (transplanted in 1988), it really is not that big a deal," Evans said. "If we had more donor organs, it would ... raise more questions of how we can afford to offer this technology." 
PREPARE THE WAY: REFORMATE! Is there no alternative? Is longing more a curse 
There is deep within each of us, religious philosophers suggest, a strong yearning for meaning which, if it is not satisfied, will kill us. And so, rather than being killed, we seek satisfaction at any cost. 
At times, it seems that everything and every person and every circumstance that crosses our path is evaluated in terms of its ability to satisfy our deepest longings. A new hairspray's on the market. A new kid is on the block. A new boss, a new employee, a FREE TRIP, A NEW CAR, com'on down! A new season, a new academic or social or emotional year. "Is this that which is to come, or should I look for another? Is this the person, the place or the thing that is going to give me fulfillment? Is this the answer to my prayers, my longings and my dreams? 
"I want it to be," we say. "I'm tired of looking. What can I do to make this the final quest, and stay with it forever?" And so we settle, and we are not fulfilled. Then we pretend. 
We pretend that it is enough; that we are satisfied, or we will be, if we just keep at it: if we just keep delving deeper into a relationship or drink more or use more or accumulate more or get more money or more power or more sex. 
But pleasure seems to have its own narcotic effect. It can temporarily seduce us into believing that what we have found is enough -we just need more of it. We set up what Genesis calls false gods, convinced that the real meaning of life is to be found in these graven images of what really is; that the real meaning, if it is to be found, will only be found somewhere outside of ourselves. 
Then, some complex reality imposes itself upon 

Workmen lay pipes outside of Breen-Phillips Hall on Monday. 
Catnpus Ministry and You 

(N0PUS 
------------------------~-------------------th·e---mo·tl-.o·n•s•:•g•e•tt-in_g_,_r_e_p_la_c_i_n-g,--g-et-tl-.n-g-,-r-e-p-la-c-in•g-?----------------------------~~~~Sll{)f-----­
But we do have a choice. We can either respond 
to God's invitation or not. We can work at becoming fully one with God, or we can work at becoming fully one with our car or our job or our 
drink or drug or some other entity. It's our choice. 
If we choose to become one with God, we have to turn away from all things that we have established as false gods and make room within for the Word of God made human. Then, once we have done that, we let God be God for us; we let God within satisfy our deepest longings. 
Or, we don't. 
Upcomin2 Eyents 
Tuesday, December 12 
Campus Bible Study-Campus Ministry Conference Room, Badin Hall. 8 pm 
Saturday, December 16 
Eucharist, 5:00pm at Stepan Center. 
Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C., presider. 
Notre Dame Women's Choir. 
Sunday, December 10 Eucharist, 10:00 am at Stepan Center. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C., presider. Notre Dame Orchestra and Liturgical Choir. 
Eucharist, 11:45 am at Stepan Center. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C., presider 
Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
our lives. A friend dies. An illness develops. A job 
is lost. Someone else gets the love we wanted for time, God became one with us, inviting us to become one with God. That's when the statement
ourself. Or, slightly less complex: the TV breaks 
down; the painting looses some of its luster; the came loud and midnight-clear: The kingdom of 
coat is no longer new; euphoria is replaced by God is at hand; the kingdom of God is within. 
Christian theologians suggest that God really has
hangover. And we wonder. And we go back to the starting 
no choice in the matter. God has to give us love. That's God's nature. No choice involved. In orderpoint: Is that all there is? Is there no satisfaction to to be God, God needs to want to be one with us.
our deepest longings? Should we just go through 
a ot Campus Ministry-and 

than a hint of things to come? 
And in this emptiness we hear a voice or read the words: Prepare ye the way of the Lord! Make straight the Lord's path. Reform your lives: the reign of God is at hand! 
And we are stirred. Anesthetized yearnings are piqued. Maybe this will be the answer. But we wonder: how does this cry in the wilderness differ from the ad for a new hairspray? If I use God, my life wiii be complete? 
But wait: no hairspray ad calls us to reform our lives. No beer commercial challenges to change anything more than our brand. Reform. The true meaning of life draws near. "And now, ladies and gentlemen, the moment you've all been waiting for. The Main Event. Direct your attention, if you will, to the center ring. But first reform. 
" Get out of your way all of those notions and ideas and possessions and beliefs and concepts and opinions and thoughts and views that even hint at the possibility that anything else can address your deepest longings. Let go of what you've got and I'll give you what you want. What you really want. What you seek so desperately that your fear of not finding it makes you settle for less. Let go of the less. Open your hearts to the possibility that you really can find what you really do seek." 
Such a time of preparation is now at hand. It 
begins in expectant confidence that we are being 
invited to participate in the fullness of life. In 
Christian terms, the time is Advent and the 
meaning is found in God's ongoing and constant 
invitation to become one with God. 
In Christian terms, the event that signifies our 
invitation to partake in the fullness of life is called 
the incarnation. That's when, in the context of 
Tuesday, December 12, 1989
page 4 The Observer 

THURSDAY, DEC. 7 
3:10a.m.: On routine patrol of the C-1 lot, Notre Dame Security found that the vehicle of a Keenan Hall resident had been vandalized. Stolen from his vehicle were speakers, a power booster, and two jackets. His loss is estimated at $420. 
8:30 p.m.: A Grace Hall resident re­ported that his car had been vandalized while parked in the D-2 lot sometime be­tween 4:30p.m. on 1216 and 8:15p.m. on 12/7. A cassette player, an amplifier, and two speakers and their covers were stolen. His loss is estimated to be $650. 
8:35p.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend woman for Operating on Expired License Plates. 
8:57 p.m.: Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of an accident on Edison Road. No injuries were reported, and damages sustained were minor. 
FRIDAY, DEC. 8 
10 a.m.: An off-campus student re­ported that his car had been struck by an unknown vehicle. The hit and run oc­curred while his car was parked in the C­1 lot sometime between 8:45 and 9:55 a.m. 
1:41 p.m.: A resident of Holy Cross Hall reported that his car had been vandal­ized while parked in the D-6 lot. Un­known culprit(s) attempted to enter the vehicle and caused damage to the pas­senger side door. 
Mexico 
APPhoto continued from page 1 
Cutting through the Iron Curtain 
ment of LaFortune Student 
Center will be open all night Czech soldiers use wire cutters to dismantle the border fence be­Sunday through Wednesday of tween Austria and Czechoslovakia Monday. The work marks the next week, said Joe Cassidy of official start of removing the Iron Curtain between the two coun­Student Activities. Businesses tries and follows work begun earlier in December for a new will be closed, but lounges and Czech/Austrian border crossing. some conference rooms will be 
open. The senate voted last night to
risk for cancer of the colon or 
eliminate the Office of the Om­
breast, and probably some
Killers 
budsman. The constitutional
other common cancers as well, 
amendment needed to do this
continued from page 1 said John Laszlo, the cancer 
must be voted on by the Hall
society's senior vice president needed to avoid risk of exces­for research. Presidents' Council before go­sive bleeding. ing into effect. 
•Better understanding and The Hall Presidents' Council 
possible prevention of a re-nar­Warnings and instructions is asking for feedback regard­rowing of atherosclerotic arter­about prevention should pack ing upcoming renovations on 
ies after a procedure called more wallop for those people the Hesburgh Library pit. Ren­angioplasty is used to widen than the blanket recommenda­ovations are scheduled to begin them. tions now given to everybody. during Christmas break, and 
This narrowing of the arter­he said. input is encouraged. ies oecurs in 25 to 40 percent 
SECURITY BEAT 
4:10p.m.: A Sorin Hall resident reported 
the theft of two wheel covers from his car 
while it was parked in the D-1 lot. The 
theft occurred between 6:30 p.m. on 1216 
and 4 p.m. on 1218. His loss is estimated 
at$40. 
7:25p.m.: A resident of Alumni Hall re­
ported the theft of his wallet and con­
tents from his room. 
7:49 p.m.: A South Bend resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for Exceed­ing the Posted Speed Limit on Juniper Road. The defendant had been travel­ling 47 mph in 25 mph zone. 
8:20p.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a resident of South Bend for speeding on Juniper Road. The defendant had been travelling 42 mph in a posted 25 mph zone. 
10:03 p.m.: Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a two car accident on Angela Blvd. No injuries were re­ported. 
SATURDAY, DEC. 9 
12 p.m.: Notre Dame Police responded to the report of a two car accident on US 31/33 North. No injuries were reported. 
5:30p.m.: A visitor to campus reported the theft of his wallet and contents from the Loftus sports center. His loss is es­timated to be $60. 
6:35 p.m.: An Alumni Hall resident re­ported being robbed and assaulted on the bus from the mall to campus. An in­vestigation into the incident is continuing. 
SUNDAY, DEC.10 
12:34 a.m.: Notre Dame Police and Fire 
Departments responded to a fire alarm in Keenan Hall. Unknown person(s) started a fire in the stairwell. Hall resi­dents doused the flames with water and a fire extinguisher. The incident is cur­rently under investigation. 
6:10 p.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend resident for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit on Juniper Road. The defendant had been travelling 46 mph in a 25 mph zone. 
8:14 p.m.: A resident of Detroit was cited by Notre Dame Police for speeding on Juniper Road. The defendant had been travelling 40 mph in a posted 25 mph zone. 
8:51 p.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a Michigan resident for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit. The defendant had been travelling 43 mph in a 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
9:44p.m.: A resident of Holy Cross Hall reported the theft of his checkbook and wallet from his room. The theft occurred at approximately 9 p.m. on 1213. 
10:30 p.m.: A South Bend man was cited by Notre Dame Police for Disre­garding a Stop Sign at the corner of Ju­niper and Edison. 
W e haven't had dates in years. Now, almost in tears, so please help 2 desperate boys find a date. 
Romance or Chachi are wa1t1ng. yours truly, Laura & Brenda 

21 YEARS AGO TODAY THE WORLD BECAME A NICER PLACE••• 

Tuesday, December 12, 1989 
Family Flicks at Snite starting next semester 
ByJOEMOODY News Writer 
A series of movies entitled "Family Flicks" will be shown next semester on Sundays in the Snite Museum. 
Along with newer films, many of the great movies of the '40s, '50s and '60s will be shown be­causP some of today's young­sters might not have seen them. said Sister Elaine Des Hosiers. din~rtor of the Educational Me­dia. She is n~sponsible for the 111m sPries. 
"Wp're calling them matinees on selected Sundays, and along with most of the movies, we'll run a short feature such as a cartoon," said Des Hosiers. 
The first film of the series, in January. will be the new Disney movie, "Oliver and Company," which is not even available on video cassette yet. 
Other movies to be shown in­clude "Born Free," "The Incred­ible Journey," "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea," and John Wayne's "Stage Coach." 
The presentations will be shown during 12 of the 15 weeks of the spring semester, each running from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
Admission will be $1 for chil­dren under 12: $1.50 for stu­dents and senior citizens, and $2 for adults. 
"Family Flicks" is being sponsored by the Educational Media in conjunction with the Year of the Family. 
f..,-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··,Happy Birthday
! i  We Love You  
Love, Mo, Michelle, Christy, Eileen,Marya,Meg, Megan, Beth,& Colleen  

The Observer 
page 5 

Mourning line 
Mourners file past caskets in the University of Montreal Sunday as they pay their respects to eight of the 14 women slain in Wednesday's shooting spree . 
NOH to extend hours during exam week 


.i 
I 
i 
i 
··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-~·-··-··-··-··-·' 
Special to The Observer 
North Dining Hall will extend dinner hours and alter menus slightly in hopes of limiting crowding, waiting, and food shortages during finals week. 
Beginning Saturday, North Dining Hall will serve dinner 
Mail 
continued from page 1 
delays delivery of mail for ap­proximately a week. Loya said 
NEW COURSE FOR BUSINESS JUNIORS 
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
>>> BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS <<< 
1 CREDIT HOUR COURSE MEETS THURSDAY ONLY 
11:00 OR 1:15 SECTION 
FOCUS ON: WRITING SKILLS SPEAKING SKILLS INTERPERSONAL SKILLS NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION 
SEE PROF. WILLIAMSON IN ROOM 131 HAYES-HEALY 
FOR MORE INFORMATION AND/OR FOR REGISTRATION 

from 4:15-6:45 p.m. to better serve the influx of students coming to dinner from the Res­burgh Library. 
An evening form of Fast Fare entrees has been added in an 
attempt  to move  students  in  
and  out  of  the  dining  hall  
faster.  

Although the changes have 
this problem is particularly pervasive at Saint Mary's. 
Off-campus students who 
co!l.tinue to list the Notre Dame zip code for their new ad­dresses may also experience delayed mail, Loya said. That 
zip code is applicable only to campus housing. When students move off-campus, they acquire a South Bend zip code. 
been made to accommodate the increase, students are still urged to eat at their normal dining hall. "We don't want to discourage people from eating at North," said student senator Sigi Loya, "But we do want to say that a five minute walk to South can savo you a 15-minute wait at North." 
~need someonewith theronfidenceofa~ 
thededicationot · amarathonerandthe 
rourageofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer Call us all-800-424-8580, Ext. 93. 
PeaceCorps.
• ......,...'*',..,""luwt'. 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, December 12, 1989
pag_e 6 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg•s Cocc•a R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Manhew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly K1llen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Ahson Cocks Accent Editor John Bias• Systems Mgr Bernard Brenmnkmeyer Photo Editor Er•c Ba•ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstine Gill Controller Anne Lindner 
fhe Observer 1S the 1ndependent newspaper published by the students ol the Univers1· ty ol Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol· IC1es of I he adm1n1strat1on of e11her mst1tut10n The news IS reponed as accurately and ob· )ect1vely as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the maJonty of the follow1ng Ed1tor-1n·Ch1ef. Manag1ng Editor. Execut1ve News Editor. Viewpo1nt Ed1tor Sports Ed1tor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Ed1tor. Commentaries. leners. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors Column space IS available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opm1ons on campus. through letters IS encouraged 

LETTERS 
Jews and Arabs share liability for violence 
been to publicizn thn plight of solidifies thn fpars of tlw ls­
/Jear Hditor: 
the Palestinians. While the en­raPiis.
Critidzing lsranl is not anti­tire world condemns tlw Is­Mr. A.I-Farisi's historic n~fnr­Snmitism. but when someone raelis and feels sorry for tlw erwn to thn ".Jnwish snizurn ofquotns "the gr1~at problnm with Palestinians, the situation gons Palestirw in tlw 1940s" is an­A.meriean .Jews," or sarcasti­on and on with no resolution in othnr nxampln of complntPiycally rnfers to God's chosen sight. distorting the faets in an at­p1wpln as bPing unabln to rnal­Perhaps, instl~ad of throwing tnmpt to point a lingnr at tlwizn that thny an~ capabln of rocks, thn Palestinians could Israelis. Mr. A.I-Farisi mustmaking mistakes, that is anti­accept the Israeli pnace plan or havP forgotten that it was theSnmitism. 
negotiate for a pnace initiativn Arabs who rejected tlw U.N. In thn Nov. 14 issue of Tho 
of their own. Thn very faet that partition plan and tlwn at­Obsnrv1~r. Mr. Corcoran went 
Palnstinians have chosnn thn tPmptnd to "violently" sPiZP all hnyond political critidsms and 
PLO, a terrorist organization, of Israel in an all out military made radst comments concnrn­
as their voice is a clear attaek. ing the "loud" American Jews. indication that they are not Ironically enough, tlw U.N. What's even more disturbing is Concerning Mr. AI-Farisi's Mr. Al+arisi willingly supplins seriously intnrested in pnaen. partition plan providnd for a that Mr. AI-Jiarisi, in a Dee. 1 one-sided analysis of a the Is­us with all of the statistics of The bottom line concerning .Jewish and Palnstinian homo­letter, supports Mr. Corcoran's raeli occupation, it should be the destruction that the Israelis the occupation is that lsranl land on the vory tnrritorios that statements. Hogardless of the cloar that it is not simply the have caused, yet he fails to must protect itself. and allow­arn bning fought ovnr today. situation in lsranl, there is no case of the "bad guy" Israelis point out all of this was done in ing a Palestinian (or PLO) statP justification for making bla­oppressing the poor, helpless response to the violent uprising in its midst would pose too !Jill l.erman tantly racist comments against Palestinians. Obviously the oc­of the Palestinians. great a security risk. Continued Flanner //all 
Jnws. 
cupation is a two-sided issue. The goal of the Intifada has violence in the tPrritories only /Jec. 1. 1989 
Athletics steal spotlight from NO academics 
year, the sports section of my pay raises. He or she would sors, or help alleviate our al­If wo put as much enthusiasm /Jear Hditor: Chicago Tribune was mysteri-rather read about the killing of ready overcrowded classrooms. into bettering our intellect as 
Mr. Coyne couldn't have pin­ously missing almost every the Bears last Sunday than the Maybe we cnuld give that ath­bettering our football team, pointed better the problems morning. Funny, the culprits killing of the Salvadoran letic scholarship intendnd for maybe we'll b1~ national cham­with Notre Dame in his Dec. 5 didn't steal the news section ev-priests. Many students probably the high-school football phe­pions in the classroom as well. Vinwpoint article. Like Mr. ery day. could name every lleisman nomenon to a poor minority Coyne, I was a varsity athlete in Evnn at lunchtime, I observe Trophy winner since 1945, but kid who academically stands Jeff Jotz high school who has partici­many students who demon-couldn't tell you two bits of in­out in his Glass in the South Fisher //all pated in NVA. activities hero at strate where thnir priorities lie formation concerning the Bronx. /Jec. 6, 1989 Notrn Dame. llowevnr. over my by reading The Observer from sweeping changes in Eastern past thrne semesters at Notre back to front (which, by the Europe. Dame I have noticed, as Mr. way, contains a disproportion-With all due respect to the Catholics need no apology for faith Coyne pointnd out, an alarming ately large number of sports fine athletic programs and fa­tendency among Notre Dame pages compared to the rest of cilities this school has to offer, /Jear Hditor: University, I am appalled at tlw students: they value athleties the paper). The gymnasiums Notre Dame should be a place In response to the committoe very thought of discontinuing far morn than academics. and weight rooms here are where the voices of student dis-on Notre Dame's Position on the opening Mass. 
I ask Notre Dame students to filled with people engaging in cussion should be as loud as 0 r din at ion of Wornen My hope is that the adminis­look all around them and see physical activity, yet when guest the voices in the .JACC during a (CONDPOW). I feel their posi-tration will never feel a need to 1~xamples of this. In my dorm, lecturers visit Notre Dame, the home basketball game. tion on changing the opening apologize for being Catholie the wnekly issues of Sports Il­auditoriums are relatively Liturgy will only hurt the and continue with this beauti­lustrated fill the vast majority empty. Instead of encouraging the group, not further their move-fully moving colobration. of mailboxes. Ask these stu­Let's face it. The average construction of new multi-mil-ment. dents if they'd like to subscribe Domer cares more about lion-dollar sports facilities, As a woman, a Catholic, and Ann rang to news magazines and they'll Dwight Gooden's salary dis-maybe we could hire some more as a mother of five children-Bay Village. Ohio give you a strange look. Last pules than our congressmen's much-needed English profes-two presently attending the Nov. 29, 1989 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

UM.../A/e'l?& an: BUT >W'!?& R?l£7H/5 15 50I<T 
?VtMVeAT
OF MY (l)lrl!N6 OUT 
ANYTIMe.'
PAI<TY! 50 I<JO< 
'Procrastination is the thief of 
\ ..:;;;;;~P?.....
8ACJ<, tJNtij!Nl?t /WI? l!NJOY lH/3 
time.' 
fliU/7S OF ...._ 
/1t!MOCRACt! 
Edward Young 

Decade in Review 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
The Observer/1980 
Administration transitions mark the 1980's 
'Monk' Malloy selected 16th president of NO by Board of Trustees 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor 
'Tm humbled." 
Those were tlw first words of AssoriatPd Provost Father Ed­ward "Monk" Malloy upon bP­ing announrPd Friday as the rwxt prnsidPnt of Notre Dame. 
MePting l;riday aftnrnoon. the Board of Trustees elected Mal­loy tlw 16th prnsidmlt in Notre Damn's 144-yPar history. 
Malloy. 45. will succeed Fa­thnr Theodorn llesburgh as prnsident following com­nwneemPnt on May 17, 1987 and will serve five years. 
Malloy's term. which is re­newable, will officially begin July 1. 1987. 
On the recommendation of Malloy, the board also elected Father E. William Beauchamp as executive vice president. 
Beauchamp, who was one of the fivP presidential candidates, will succeed Father Edmund Joyce. BPauchamp will also snrvP five years. 
In addition. the board voted to renew Provost Timothy O'Mnara's term on Malloy's mrornmendation. 
O'MPara. who as provost has bPnn Malloy's boss, will serve thn same term as Malloy and Bnauchamp. 
FlankPd at a crowded news conference by llesburgh and Board of Trustees Chairman Donald Keough. Malloy said, "No one can replace Father llnsburgh nor do I intPnd to try. 
"But together, together in the 
Originally ran on November 14, 1986. 
same admrmstratwn, together with the trustees, together with my fellow brothers and priests in Holy Cross. we can continue to build on the legacy of these last 35 years." 
The board's vote confirmed the selection of the 10-member nominatin committee, which had met earlier and chose Mal­loy. 
The announcement came during a news conference crowded with reporters, trustees and cameras at the Morris Inn. 
Press reports had earlier identified Malloy, who is also an associate professor of theology, as the candidate who would be nominated and confirmed. 
As president, Malloy said he will "continue with many of the directions that have already been started. 
"It is clear to me that Notre Dame needs to be a major graduate research institution," said Malloy, adding that ca­pable faculty must be attracted to accomplish this. 
Malloy, who holds under­graduate and graduate degrees from Notre Dame, said he also wants to continue the "established legacy of high quality undergraduate educa­tion." 
Added Malloy: "We will, as every major university will, continue to struggle with achieving the proper balance between those two high goals." 
St. Edward's fire 
Hesburgh steps down after 35 years of service to Notre Dame, the United States and the world 
By ~ARY HEILMANN 
Originally ran in a special
Assistant News Editor 
It's been 35 years. Thirtyc five years of teaching and building and fundraising and traveling and serving. For 35 years, Father Theodore Martin Hesburgh has been president of the University of Notre Dame. He has guided its growth from 4, 979 students in 1952 to 9,600 today. He has watched its endowment skyrocket from $9 million to more than $350 million, its annual operating budget from $97 million to $176.6 million. 
He has served four popes ­three as permanent Vatican City representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency -and has accepted 14 presidential appointments. 
By PEGGY PROSER 
Staff Reporter 
The launching of over 1,500 balloons kicked off a weekend of inaugural activities Friday at Saint Mary's in celebration of the inauguration of Dr. William Hickey as the College's ninth president. 
South Bend Mayor Roger Parent issued an official proclamation that the weekend be known as Saint Mary's Col­lege Weekend in South Bend. 
Yesterday marked the official date as the College held their Ceremony of Inauguration. Hickey was presented the Pres-

The Observer/File Photo 
A fire on June 25, 1980, engulfed the roof and fourth floor of St. Edward's Hall. No students were living in the dormitory during the summer as workers were installing a sprinkler system. In the fall, 124 residents had to be housed in study lounges in Grace and Flanner Halls and in parts of Columba Hall. Four firefighters were injured while fighting the blaze. 
issue, Spring, 1987. 
He has served in a formal diplomatic role for the U.S. government and has acted as a director of the Chase Manhattan National Bank, the first priest to do so. 
He has traveled more than two million miles and visited about 130 countries. He has received 110 honorary degrees, breaking Herbert Hoover's previous record of 89, as well as the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest award. 
By anyone's standards, Hesburgh will leave behind a highly impressive legacy when he retires as University president on May 17,1987 
Originally ran Monday, Sept. 8, 1986. 
idential medallion by Sister Madonna Murphy, Chairman of the College's Board of Regents. 
After a thunderous standing ovation, Hickey addressed the 1 ,400 guests by accepting the challenge of being Saint Mary's president. He pledged his every effort to work with the commu­nity and to maintain the excel­lence which characterizes the institution. 
Hickey emphasized that Saint Mary's has continued to grow and prosper, despite the prob­lems private institutions faced in the latter part of the 1960's. 
Yet, when looking back over what he has accomplishep, Hesburgh says, "One always figures that one might have done better or do better given different circumstances." 
It would be hard to imagine how Hesburgh could have done better for the University. When he assumed the presidency in 1952, Notre Dame was an all-male institution with 389 faculty members and the reputation in some circles as a "football school." When he retires on May 17 of this year he will leave behind a coeducational institution which has grown by more than 40 campus buildings and has emerged, in his own estimation as "one of the really great Catholic univer­sities of the world." 
He said that of the 280 inde­pendent women's colleges that thrived just 20 years ago, ap­proximately 100 remain open today. 
Studies show, said Hickey, that a student at a women's college is much more likely to become actively involved in her education and in her college community; to take leadership roles during her college years and afterward; to select and pursue a major in chemistry, economics, mathematics or physics, and to be an achiever in her field no matter what her major; to earn a doctorate and to go to medical school. 
Hickey takes command at Saint Mary's 
Alcohol policy alters social life at ND 
By KEITH HARRISON Originally ran Tuesday, April 17, Senior Staff Reporter 1984. 
"Otherwise, it is very likely that Notre. Dame's new alcohol the campus will go dry. Those 
policy, released last night, aren't my words; those are Fa­eliminates parties and happy ther lies burgh's." hours in dorm rooms and for­Beauchamp said there is bids underage students to at­"nobody" to whom student 
tend parties in hall social leaders ean appeal the policy.spaces where alcohol is served. which will go into effect next "Students' cooperation is fall. 
essential in this policy," said The policy also contains addi­Father William Beauchamp, tional disciplinary guidelineschairman of the Committee on 
Responsible use of Alcohol. see ALCOHOL/page 2 
DeBartolo donates $33 mil. for new quad construction 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Originally ran Friday, May 5, 1989. Senior Staff Reporter 
presently Green Field and Notre Dal11t has been given parking lots. $33 million, the 18th largest Edward DeBartolo of gift to higher education, for Youngstown, Ohio is donating construction of a new quadran­gle on the area which is 
see DeBARTOLO/page 2 
-~---·----­
page 2 Observer special section 
co 
0> 
r­
eo 
0> 
r-
N 
co 
0> 
('t) 
co 
0> 
r-

LO 
co 
0> 
c.o 
co 
0> 

co 
co 
0> 
r­
0> 
co 
0> r-
Production: 
April 22 -Reagan makes campaign stop at St. Mary's June 25-St. Edward's Hall fire August 26 -Hesburgh named chancellor of NO: scheduled to retire in June of 1982 Sept. 20 -Harry Oliver's 51 yd field goal beats Michigan 29-27 Nov. 24-Gerry Faust hired as new football coach 
Jan. 1 -Irish lose Sugar Bowl 17 -1 0 to eventual national champion Georgia Feb. 11 -Paul McCartney buys rights to NO Victory March Feb 22-Men's Basketball beats No.1 Virginia May 17-Reagan speaks at commencement: Kurt Waldheim given honorary degree Oct. 27-Hesburgh to stay 5 more years 
Feb 1 0-22 students on foreign study programs dismissed for hashish abuse March 23 -Digger Phelps stirs controversy by making allegations about cheating in college basketball Sept. 10-New Senior/Alumni Club opens Sept. 18 · ND beats Michigan 23-17 in first night game at NO stadium 
Jan. 27 ·Hockey loses varsity status Aug. 30 -First automatic teller arrives at NO bus shelter Sept. 1 -Haggar College Center opens Oct. 17-31-Capt'n Crunch Week at ND Nov. 8 -NO junior Doug Regan loses race for South Bend City Council Dec. 29-lrish beat Boston College 19-18 in Liberty Bowl 
March 28-Men's basketball falls 83-63 to Michigan in NIT final April 11 -Graduating seniors now have to take final exams April 16 -Alcohol policy handed down Aprll18-2,000 students storm Administration building in protest Dec 29-Irish lose to SMU 27-20 in Aloha 8owt 
Feb. 22 -SMC President John Duggan announces resignation March 3-Men's basketball earns first NCAA berth in tour years Aprll15 -New history and fine arts/literature requirements added Sept. 2-Student shot at field hockey practice Nov.-Faust resigns: Lou Holtz hired: Miami buries Irish 58· 7 
March· Men's basketball upset in first round of NCAA's; Men's fencers win national title April 14 -Football players beat up ND security guard Aug. 24 -David Rivers injured in car wreck November-Edward Malloy nominated as president of NO; Emil Hoffman announces resignation of teaching capacities: Irish guard disbanded 
Jan. 15-Over 200 students arrested In Lee'sRibs raid February-Scholastic suspended tor printing photo of art removed from Juggler: Men's basketball tips No. 1 North Carolina Mar. 20 -Women's fencers win nat'l title July -International Summer Special Olympics held at NDISMC Dec. 5-Tim Brown wins Heisman Trophy 
Jan. -Honor Code takes effect at NO March • Reagan visits NO for Rockne stamp dedication: Fencer Molly Sullivan wins her second national title Summer -Dome regilded Aug. 24-Revised alcohol policy announced Oct.14-ND31,No.1 Miami30 Nov.-Volleyball, men's soccer earn NCAA berths; Men's Cross Country 9th in nation 
Jan. 2 ·NO beats W. Virginia 34-21 to clinch national title March ·Wrestling finishes 21st In nation April 3 ·Bookstore Basketball begins with record 672 teams May 4 • $33 million gift for DeBartolo quad announced May 20 ·NO baseball reaches NCAA's Nov. 17-St. Michaels Laundry fire 
The Observer/Laura Stanton 
Staff for the 1980's issue: 
News: Sports: 
Alison Cocks  Sara Marley  Steve Megargee  
Monica Yant  Theresa Kelley  
Matt Gallagher  
Graphics:  
Laura Stanton  
Accent:  
Robyn Simmons  Staph Snyder  Colleen Cronin  
John Biasi  Paul Pearson  Barbara Bryn  
Liz Havel  Kelley Tuthill  

Hockey 
continued from page 4 
temporarily. 
The game of the decade easily 
outvoted a far more somber issue. 
drugs, including the death of Len 
Bias the night after he was the first 
player selected in tlw NBA draft, 
were a distant seeond with 115 
points. 
Pete Hose filled the next two spots, with the positive again outpolling the negativP: breaking Ty Cobb's hit record gar rw rPd 8 5 votes, his gambling probiPms wern fourth with 79 points. 
Martina Navratilova. the dominate women's tennis player of the first half of tlw decade, was named 
Brown 
continued from page 4 
2493 yards and 12 touchdowns. averaging I H.2 yards per rnception. lie also carried tlw ball 442 yards on 98 carries, good for a 4.5 averagP and four tourhdowns. lie returrwd 
Alcohol 
continued from page 2 
for public drunkPnness. Tlw first tinw a studmlt becomes drunk. he or she will bP subject to punishment from the hall rector. With the second 
· instance, tlw student will bn reported to the dnan of students. Continuing violations. according to the policy, "should be considen~d J'!1ason for dismissal from the University." 
The policy also states that the first instance of physical violence while the student is intoxicated will b1~ considPred sufficient grounds for expulsion from tlw University. 
"Tiw students do not consider drunkenness an art that requires disc.iplinary nwasur!'s," said BPauehamp. "This attitude must chang!'." 
The policy states: "It is not uncommon for college-age students to declare that there is nothing wrong with being drunk as long as one dons not do physical damage to oneself or others." 
"The party in the residence hall has become the standard social event on the campus. Weekend after weekend students have come to expect there will be a party in their hall or some other residence hall on campus. The attitude has developed among the students that if there is no party to attend, there is nothing to do on campus." 
Beauchamp said last night that the alcohol policy was released later than expected because the University wanted to give the Board of Trustees time to react. The final draft of the policy was completed 
DeBartolo 
continued from page 2 
the $16 million Edward J. DeBartolo Classroom facility and the $14 million Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The performing arts building is named after his wife who passed away in 1987. 
The DeBartolo gift is the largest in the history of Notre Dame. Previously the $12 million donated by Joan Kroc for the Institute for International Peace Studies was the largest gift from an individual. 
The gift was announced at a press conference Thursday. DeBartolo, chairman and chief executive officer of the Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation; his son Edward DeBartolo Jr.. president and chief administrative officer of the corporation; Donald Keough, chairman of Notre Dame's board of trustees and president and chief operating officer of The Coca-Cola Company; and University President Father Edward Malloy were present to answer 'QUestions about the new quad. 
"This is a historic moment and a female athlete of the decade in the balloting. With 58 points, Navratilova easily outdistanced track star and Olympic gold medalist Florence Griflith-Joyner, 58-22. 
Despite 'nearly perfectly splitting 90 matches with archrival Chris Evert and later battling the next new star, Steffi Craf, , Navratilova had the most tournament wins, 1 06. the most Grand Slam wins. 15, and the highnst earnings. over $11 million, of any fmnale tennis player. Slw holds tlw rncords for Wimbledon titles with eight. 
Following Navratilova and Criffith­.Joyner in the poll were track standout .Jackie .Joyner-KPrsee, with I 1 points, and Evelyn Ashford and Graf' with six points, Pach . 
The best singiP pcrf'ormancP of tlw decade was the closest rare in tlw 
thrPe kickoff's and three morP punts for touchdowns. Brown is currently with tlw Los Angeles Haiders. 
Following Brown in tlw balloting wern current Irish quarterback Tony Hice (16 pointsl and guard David Hivers (B pointsI of the Notre Dame 
just bnf'ore Spring Bn~ak. 
Beauchamp had pnwiously set April 
I as tlw wlease date for tlw report. 
Tlw report was prPsPnted to hall n~etors last night. 
Under the new policy, all parties in student rooms. including thosP in which no alcohol is servPd. will lw forbidden. Tlw exact dPiinition of a party has not been dPierminPd, although "a party will probably lw defirwd as any gatlwring of morP than four p1wple, or twicP tlw numbPr of people assignPd to a suitP." 
"Tiw whole party scerw leads to alcohol abuse," said BPaurhamp. "So wn'w got to eliminat!' it." 
Alcohol may continue to lw servPd in parties that take plal'l' in hall party rooms. so long as all attPruling the party are at least 21 years of age. 
Also, alcohol may be served at all­hall semi-formal parties. The report statns that such events "create an atmosphere in which responsible use of alcohol is encourag1~d." IIails will be permitted two semi-formals per snmester. 
Students will be allowed to consume alcohol in the privacy of their own rooms. I lowever. beer and wine will probably be the only types of alcohoL that will be permitted, according to Beauchamp. 
Tailgaters on the days of home football games will continue to be allowed. A letter, however, will be sent to alumni and season ticket holders, saying that alcohol will be restricted to the parking areas around the stadium and in the outer areas of the campus. 
historic occasion in the life of the University," said Keough. "It is historical because the fruits of this extraordinary generosity, two major buildings anchoring the new academic quadrangle, will be completed as we celebrate our sesquicentennial in the year 1992." 
Malloy said the classroom building will contain state-of-the-art computer and audio-visual equipment as well as classrooms of various sizes. 
"Now we have the opportunity not only to bring to the campus performing groups of various kinds, but also to attract an even stronger faculty," said Malloy. He also said that the performing arts center will be the "cultural center" for the Michiana community. 
DeBartolo, Sr., said he had been approached by University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh and Father Edward Joyce about donations in the past. Jokingly, he said, "they never quite gave us the snow job that Father Malloy gave us." 

"We hope that the thousands of students who follow us will benefit from the enhancement of the quality balloting. Los Angeles Dodger pitcher Ore! llershiser's record scoreless inning strnak of 1988 narrowly defeated Gretzky's breaking the NIIL's 200-point barrier in one season, 25 votes to 2:{. 
On September 2H, 19H9, llershiser broke the unbreakabl!~ r!'cord: shutting out tlw opposition for 59 innings, bn~aking tiw n~cord of !iH sPt by Don DrysdaiP. 
On March 25, 1982, Gretzky scorPd his 200th point of tlw sPason, lm~aking tlw four-minute mill' of tlw horkl'y world. 
Tied with 1:{ points in tiw balloting wnrn HogPr Clenwns' 20-strikeout ganw, Carl I.Pwis' four gold nwdals in track at tlw 11JH4 Los AngPII's Olympics and. tlw top writP-in-votP of tlw PntirP balloting, (;rpg Lemond's comp-from-lwhind victory at tlw I1JH9 Tour dl' 1.-rancP. · 
basketball tPam. HirP compiiPd a 27­3 n~conl as NotrP l>anw's starting quarterback in tlm~P sPasons. Biwrs holds Irish rPrords in carePr assists and stl'als. Dan I'Pitil'r, a rur-rPnt studPnt and nwmlwr of tiw TPxas Hangers' hasPball farm systPlll systPm, plarPd a dosP fourth with I I points. 
Although not pwsnntly part of tlw I'Pport, an additional ruiP will outlaw bars in stucknt rooms. This proposal was not suggested by tlw rommittPP. lnstPad, tlw Officl'rs of tlw UniVl'rsitv r e co mm P n d P d i t w lw n tlwy nxamirwd tlw rPport. 
"Tiw studPnts will haVP to dPcidP for tlwmsPIV!'s wlwtlwr or not tlwy will go off campus to drink." said BPaurhamp. "Wp couldn't allow that possibility to dictatP what our policy would lw." 
T lw n P w a Ir o hoI poI icy r P r­Olllllli'IHIS thP addition of a mandatorv lw a I t h a warP rw s s. COlllponPnt. as part ol' till' frPshman physical awarc'nPss SPlJlH'IH~P. 
In addition. tlw rPport rPr­
omm P rHI s that an o l'l'irP of alro hoI Pduration lw Pstablislwd to dPvPlop awarPnPss programs and to I'PViPw alcohol policy and ruiPs. 
Tlw n'port also st I'I'SSPd tlw isstH' of thn sorial lifP at tlw Uniwrsity. A rPnovation of tlw l.ahu·tunP StudPnt Center is advised. as wnll as thP devnlopnwnt of an UndergraduatP Club. 
Further rPco mm ~~ ndation s to improvn the soeial life include tlw expanded usn of thn Senior/Alumni Club and Washington llall. 
"This policy is extn~mely snnsitiw to the students," said Beaueham p. "This is a total program, not just a series of alcohol restrictions. This is our responsibility as a Christian in­stitution." 
Dean of StudPnts James HoPnwr has issw~d to the reetors a draft of a directive outlining how the alcohol policy would be implenwnted. Thn report plaees most of the burden of enforcement on the hall staffs. 
of educational opportunities at Notre Dame," said DeBartolo. 
DeBartolo and his son graduated from the University and his daughter, Marie, graduated from Saint Mary's College. "The family style and the suecess of our family really stems from being involved in the University of Notre Dame." DeBartolo said. 
Malloy said in order to have a quadrangle in the real sense of the word, "there will have to be a relocation of possibly the post office ... The University Club would probably have to be moved," said Malloy. lie did say that the Center for Continuing Education will remain. 
Notre Dame Avenue will rnmain open, but cars will no longnr b<' allowed to take a right at the post ofliee on Dorr Hoad, said Malloy. The traffic will instead go around the perimeter of the campus, behind the stadium, according to Malloy. 
The other buildings on the quad will include the llesburgh Center for International Studies, which has already been funded, said Malloy. lie also said the University has been in negotiations with friends of the University about a Business School building. 

-
Nothing came 
between Brooke 
Shields and hm 
Calvin Klcins.. 
."Empire Strikes Back"...Pac Man .. . John Lennon..."Ordinary People" .. . "Anotlwr one bites the dust" ...Disco sucks..."Friday the 13th, Part II".. .Rubik's Cube ..."Kramer vs. Kramer".. .ELO..."The Hose"...Strawberry Shortcake..."Xanadu"...Pink Floyd.. .Atari...Who Shot J.R.? ...Michael Jackson...Jelly Bellies...Biondie.. . Princes Leia ..."Crazy Little Thing Called Love"...video games ...Bette Midler..."Hock With You"...roller rinks. ..Barbara Streisand..."Another Brick in the Wall" ..."The Blues Brothers" .. ."That's the fact Jack!" ...Captain and Tenille..."Magic"...Andy Gibb 

"Dynasty".. 
.Royal Wedding 
of Charles and 
Diana...Blondie. 
..Kristin shot J.H ..."Private Eyes" .. . "Haiders of the Lost Ark" ...Death of Jack Albertson ..."IIill Street Blues" .. . "Centerfold" ..."Chariots of Fire" .. .Joan Collins ..."Kiss on my List"...Luke and Laura's wedding on "General Hospital"..."Bette Davis Eyes" ...Salem Strangler terrorizes "Days of Our Lives". ..REO Speedwagon...Atari & Colecovision...Hall & Oates...death of Allen Ludden..."Endless Love" ...Air Supply..."Celebration"..."Totally awesome!"...MTV debuts...average price of VCR is $500..."Jessie's Girl" 
Alex P. Keaton and "Family Ties" ...
1982
• • • Prince William .. 
. "Gag me With a Spoon"..."Gandhi"..."Open Arms" .. ."ET phone home" ..."Poltergeist".. .Flock of Seagulls ...Dungeons and Dragons... "Hart to Hart"... "Pac-Man Fever"-the song ..."Grody"... "Rocky III" and Mr. T. ..Eddie Murphy comes to "Saturday Night Live" ...Asia...Scott Baio..."First Blood ...Go-Go's...The release of "Thriller" ... "Awesome"... 
rr'ime, time.-L It's silly, no? When a rocket blows And everybody still wants to fly. Some say a man ain't happy
trulyTn man truly dies. Oh why, On why, Sign 0 the times Time, time... 
-Prince, 1987. 
"Jack and Diane"...Smurfs.. . "Cheers"... "Tainted Love" ...He-Man. .."Let's Get Physical" ...Men at Work. . . John Belushi dies ... "Abracadabra".. .Bermuda Bags ..."867-5309-Jenny". . .friendship pins ...David Letterman 
Flashdance..
19 (J 2 
...__ (JJ • • • .polos with up­
turned collars.. 
.Lionel Hichie .. . "Synchronicity" ..."Bille Jean".. .docksiders...Risky Business .. .Cabbage Patch Kids ..."Sexual Healing"...Culture Club .. .feathered hair for girls .. .The Return of the Jedi. . .Trivial Pursuit. .."Make my day" .. ."M*A*S*H" farewell. ..the preppy phase... "The Day After" ..."The Winds of War" ... death of Jessica Savitch... Nikes...Thriller..."She Blinded Me With Science" ..."The Safety Dance" ... breakdancing... "The Thorn Birds" ..."Islands in the Stream". ..Duran Duran ...National Lampoon's "Vacation" 
"Who you gonna call. ..GHOST­
1984
. * * • BUSTERS!!!"... 
Footloose.. ."Jump"...Wham!...Police Academy. .The Cosby Show ...Prince Henry .. . Amadeus ..."Where's the Beef?" .. .Purple Rain ..."One man come in the name of love ..."...Vanessa Williams .. . Gremlins..."I Just Called to Say I Love You"...Go-Bots... Born In the USA... .Against All Odds..."His hair is on FIRE!!!"...The Wave ...Fiourescent 
EVERYTHING..."Like a Virgin".. .Culture Club ..."Owner of a Lonely Heart" ....Hated PG-13 .. .'Miami Vice' .. ."Girls Just Wanna Have Fun" ...Splash. . ."Do They Know It's Christmas?" .. .Night Hanger 
19 
C:' Chaka Khan .. -J .New Coke .. 
.....,. • • • . "Back to the 
Future".. .Moldavian massacre on "Dynasty".. . "Out of Africa"...death of Hick Nelson.. .Transformers..."One More Night" .. . "Out of Touch" ...17-hour, two continent Live Aid concert. ..Bo and Hope marry on "Days of Our Lives" .. . "St. Elsewhere" ...Dr. Ruth...entire season of "Dallas" is a dream...The Fridge...Madonna...death of Hock Hudson... Pound Puppies ..."The Breakfast Club" ... "Moonlighting".. .U.S.A. for Africa ...Phil Collins ... "You look maaahvelous" ..."The Golden Girls"..."Careless Whisper" ...Glenn Frey 
19 

Hi,?h-top R~.ebok's. . . Top Gun .. 
• • • ."Big Time" ..."L. 
A. Law".. .dinosaurs..."Can we talk?"... Pictionary.. .leggings...Alf.. ."Heartburn"...Fergie & Andie...Vanna White..."Hannah & Her Sisters" .. .Beastie Boys ...Laser Tag ...Liberty Weekend..."Platoon"...Molly Ringwald. ..California Raisins ..."Crocodile Dundee"...tie-dyed shirts ...Whitney Houston... "Superbowl Shuffie" .. . Teddy Ruxpin ....stretch pants.. .frozen yogurt..."Take Me Home" ..."Star Trek IV"..."So"..."The Color Purple" ...The Outfield...Halley's comet... "That's What Friends Are For" ...Bill Cosby's "Fatherhood"...paisley 
"I .~ant your sex" . 
...., + + • .. Fatal
198,7 
Attraction".. 
.Diane leaves Sam...Spuds Mackenzie ..."Slippery When Wet" ....acid wash jeans ..."Dirty Dancing"...Max Headroom .. .''I'm Bad"...compact discs ..."The Joshua Tree"...Dave and Maddie... "The Lost Boys"... Poison ..."It's the end of the world as we know it" ..."You've got the look"... Tiffany and Debbie Gibson .. .La Bamba ..."Walk like an Egyptian".. ."Lethal Weapon" ...."Isn't that special?" . ...Graceland...Whitesnake ...Cherry Coke...Terence Trent D'Arby ..."Pee Wee's Playhouse" ..."Holding back the years"..."Beverly Hills Cop II"...A new James Bond 
Tracy Chapman. . "The Accused" ..
1 8
• • • ."The Wonder 
Years"...the end of "St. Elsewhere"..."Good Morning Vietnan"..."Cocktail"..."Magnum P.I." goes off the air .. "thirtysomething". . . .newsman Max Hobinson dies .. .Roseanne Barr.. .'The Last Temptation of Christ" ..."War and Remembrance" .. ."Dangerous Liasons" ..."Faith".. ."Who Framed Roger Rabbit" ..."Don't worry, be happy". . . "Rain Man" .. ."Working Girl" ..."Rattle and Hum".. ."Green"..."We want to pump-you up!"...Geraldo's nose...Teen party lines...Oprah loses 6 7 pounds ..."Elvis lives".J ..Tone Loc's "Wild Thing" .. .Guns 'n' Roses ..."Man in the Mirror" 
1989 1 The Stones .. 
.Batman...Donny 
-+ • • Osmond..."fax 
it"...the end of "Dynasty", "Moonlighting" .. ."Heathers"...Vanna White ...deaths of Gilda Radner, Lucille Ball, Bette Davis .. .the Who ...Les Miserables ....ripped jeans...the return of neon...New Kids on the Block ..."Just Say No"...Dead Poet's Society ...Arsenio Hall, Pat Sajak talk shows .. .leather. . .movie sequels: "Lethal Weapon", "Indiana Jones", "Ghostbusters", "Back to the Future" ... the Hockin' Flower... "Do the Right Thing"... Geraldo's nose...Bobby Brown... Milli Vanilli. .. African medallions...reunion tours ..."sex, lies, and videotapes"..."Like A Prayer" 
The Observer/1980 
SP-orts 
Sullivan, Brown voted Irish athletes of the 80's 

By THERESA KELLY Waller led the Notre Dame Sports Editor volleyball team to a Sweet 16 appearance in 1988, and holds 
All-American fencer Molly Irish records in career total Sullivan was voted the Notre bloeks (699), solo blocks (185),Dame female athlete of the 80s block assists (514) and service in balloting of Notre Dame me­aces (116). dia and athletic department Two Irish women's basketball pnrsonnel. The North Andover, players finished out the top four Mass. native placed well ahead in the balloting: Career seoring
of Irish volleyball player Mary leader Tn\na Keyes was Kay Wallm, 46-19. followed by another basketball Sullivan led the Irish women's player. point guard Mary Gavin. 
feneing team to one ninth­place, two second-plaee. and Ileisman Trophy winner and one national championship fin­all-time pass reception leader 
ish in her four years of compe­Tim Brown was the over­tition at NotrP DamP. In addi­whelming favorite for male tion, she won two individual na­athlete of the deeade, finishing tional titles as a sophomore and with 41 points. Brown became senior. and also took third as a Notre Dame's seventh lleisman junior and fifth as a freshman. winner in 1987, after two sea­
She was a four-time All­sons of receptions and rPturns. American and a gold medalist he ranked third nationally in in the Pan Am Games. all-purpose yardage as a junior
"Molly is a dominating and sixth as a senior. fem~er." said Coach Yves Auriol Over his four-season career, after hN junior season. "She is Brown caught 137 passes for one of the best physical fencers in the country." 

see BROWN/page 2 
Tim Brown 
National title, arrival of Holtz decade's biggest events 
Sonwone once told Lou lloltz 
that Notre Danw is supposed to 
be on top when it comes to 
football. 
Three years after taking over 
as !wad coaeh of the Fighting 
Irish. lloltz put them there. 
"It's important for Notre 
Dame to be on top, and I say 
that because that's what some­
body told me," Holtz said after 
Notre Dame's 34-21 drubbing 
of West Virginia in the Sunkist 
Fiesta Bowl gave the Irish their 
1\ighth national championship. 
"There arn just some people 
who are supposPd to be on top, 
and people get the impression 
that Notre Dame should be 
good," lloltz eontinued. "This is 
an outstanding football team." 
The Fighting Irish are back 
on top, ewn though many said 
this tnam was a year away from 
a shot at the national . championship. 
The 1988 Irish completed the 
lirst 12-0 season in Notre Dame 
history and wen~ rwarly a 
unanimous choien as national 
champions. Notre Dame re­
ceived 58 1/2 votes out of a possibln 60 in the Associated Prnss poll. 
Miami, which lost its No. 1 ranking when the Irish beat the Hurricanes 31-30 on Oct. 15, received the remaining 1 1/2 votes. 
"This football team is what Notre Dame spirit is all about," Holtz said. "There may be more talented teams, but there won't be any that typify the Notre Dame spirit better than this one." 
In addition to beating Miami when it was No. 1, Notre Dame beat Southern Cal 27-10 when the Trojans were No. 2 and West Virginia when the Moun­taineers were No. 3 corning into tho Fiesta Bowl. The Irish opmu~d the 1988 season with a 19-17 triumph over Miehigan, which finished the season ranked fourth. 
''I'm so happy for our play­ers," Holtz said. "It's really a drnam to win the national championship. I dreamt about winning it, but I never thought 
Reprinted from The Observer, December 3, 1985 and January 19, 1989. 
I'd be a part of something like this as a head coaeh." 
It was a very happy day for one man and a very sad day for another Dec. 2, 1985, at the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. 
Arriving around noon was new football coach Lou Holtz, set to begin his task of revital­izing the Notre Dame program. Packing up his belongings was former coach Gerry Faust, uncertain about what the future might hold for him. 
The first priority for Holtz was to assemble his staff. He met early in the afternoon as a group with all of Faust's assis­tants, and later began to speak with each on an individual ba­sis. 
Latnr in the day, Holtz ad­dressPd the team for the first time whPn he went to a meeting where player awards and next year's captains were being se­lected. 
Meanwhile, Faust was preparing to move to a vacant office in tlw rear of the ACC, where he would spend thn rest of the week tying up loose ends. 
At the press conference an­nouncing his hiring last week, Holtz showed the wit that has been part of his repertoirn wherever he has gorw. 
One of the many questions from reporters was whnther or not he had seen the high-pow­erPd 1986 Notre Damn schedule before aceepting the job. 
"Yes sir, I did," was thP f!\­sponse from lloltz, whosn son Skip is a student at Notrn Dame. "Unfortunately. I might have been looking at tlw bas­ketball schedule." 
Then Holtz quickly ticked ofT the 1986 schedule in order. "I think that's right." he said wlwn finished. At that point, ;he turned to Athletic Director Gene Corigan and added. "unless you've upgraded it since I lookl'd." 
After being assurt~d that no such upgrading had takPn place. lloltz addrnssed tlw issup of tlw prPssures whirh tlw NolrP Dame coarh faces. 
"I attended !Hle game lwrn," he said. "I noticed that the fans aw unarmed. 
"I'm not looking at Knutt' Hock n I''s rt~ cord . or Fran k Leahy's rncord or Ara Parseghian's n~cord. I lookPd at that and thought it was a misprint. I don't sen how any­body can win that many foot­ball games and lose that fPw. I just want to do thP best I can." 
Tlw prPcPding two stories wert\ voted tlw top storiPs of the decade in balloting rom­pleted by Notrn Dame nwdia and athletir departnwnt JH'r­sonrwl. Thn Finsta Bowl win edged tlw start of the lloltz era by six votes, 118-112, followed by two more football storiPs, the Miami football rivalry (86 votes) and Tim Brown winning tlw 1987 llnisman Trophy ( 71 ). 
Gretzky, Martina are world's best 
USA 1980 'Miracle on Ice' named most important story 
Observer Staff Report 
'"<~:..~~ Edmonton. Ill' rurTnntly IPads/·.;.d the Nlll. with (>3 points. · 
t ~ ..:<::1
Wayne Gretzky, formerly of SPOHT magazi1w, in it's own the Edmonton Oilers and lately decade-t•nding issun. had SI'JJa­of the Los Angeles Kings, ratP tinw lines for Grl'lzky, and rewrote the National Hockey the rnst of the NII L. League record book in the GrPlzky soundly oulpoiiPd 1980s and madt~ a nanw for former Irish quarl!'rbark and himself among hoe key's all-time curTent San Fi·anrisro 41JPr .loP ~:-.~,tts. lin was named national Montana 4(>-14 for tlw top spot athlete of the dnradn in an in tlw balloting of Notn• l>anw 
-
ObsPrver poll. media and athll'tir dnpartnwnt 
Gn~tzky broke into the Nlll. in personnPI. Fornwr Chicago 1979-80 at agp 18 with the Oil­Bear Walt1\r Payton, who hrokl' ers as they abandorwd the thP NFL rPrord for rushing crumbling World Hockey Asso­Wayne Gretzky yards in 1984, as third in thl' ciation and bncanw the Nil L's sports world was shocked when poll with 13 points. most successful expansion it was announced that Gn~tzky ••• team. was traded to the Los AngeiPs !Iockey also look tfw honors 
Gretzky wpnt on to Sflt Nil L Kings. Gretzky wantPd to bP for tlw top sports story of tlw records for goals (92), assists with his new wife, actrnss Janet dt~cadn. as tlw United StatPs' 
(163) and points (215) in a sea­Jones, in California, and had hockPy team's 1980 "Miraeln on son. lie led the Oilers to four requested the trade, and the len" Pasily caplurnd the volt\. Stanley Cups in live years fr,om city of Edmonton was left in With a dramatic 4-:{ victory 1984 to 1988, winning the Conn shock. over the Hussian team and a Smythe trophy as Most Valuable Earlier in this season, his gold medal win over Finland.
-Player of the playoffs in 1985 second with the Kings, he broke the Americans. led by captain and 1988. He won the Hart Gordie Howe's long-standing Mike Eruzione, made hockey Trophy as the league's MVP for record of 1,851 career points fans out of millions, at least 
nine straight seasons. against his former teammates In the summer of 1988 the in the Northlands Coliseum in see HOCKEY/page 2 

Accent
Tuesday, December 12, 1989 
page 7 
Le Virgen de Guadalupe: 
Celebration of the protectress of the sons and daughters of Mexico 
PAUL PERALEZ cut and brought them to the accent writer blessed virgin and she placed 
"Thousands of 
the flowers in his cloak admon­
"The Virgen is the consola­people, young and ishing him not to reveal them to tion of the poor, the shield of anyway until he had reached tlw weak. the help of the op­old alike, travel for the bishop. When Juan Diego pressed. In sum, she is the arrived at the bishop's palace, 
miles to the basilica 
mother of orphans. All men are he was harassed by the guards. born disinherited and their true to pay their re­The guards noticed the beauti­condition is orphanhood, but ful flowers that Juan Diego
spects to the pa­
this is particularly true among carried in his cloak and at­the Indians and the poor in tron saint of tempted to grab them. With Mexico. The cult of the Virgen each attempt, however, the 
Mexico..." 
reflects not only the general flowers disappeared and in­
condition of man but also a -------------stead appeared to be painted concrete historical situation, in with the divine message. He on the fabric of the cloak. both the spiritual and material told the bishop that the Virgin 
realms." Mary and Mother of God had Juan Diego was finally al­Oetavio Paz on La Virgen de sent him. lowed to see the bishop and at GuadalupP. The bishop listened once once told Zumarraga that he again to Juan Diego, posed had brought a sign from Our 
This is a story which has been many questions, but still re­Lady. Kneeling before the told to gem~rations of Mexicans fused to accept that this lowly bishop, Juan Diego opened his and which we Mexican youth Indio was a messenger of the cloak and the flowers spilled on proudly share with the Catholic Iloly Mother. Zumarraga in­to the floor. On the cloak where community of the University of sisted that the young boy bring the flowers had been was a Notre Dame. a tangible sign that he had seen miraculous impression of the 
During December of 1531. a the Virgen. Juan Diego con­Virgen Maria. Juan Diego. a young Indio who veyed the bishop's answer to had been converted to the Virgen and was told by her Overwhelmed by the image, Catholicism, witnessed an ap­to return on Monday to the bishop began to cry and parition of the Virgen Maria. Tepeyac for a tangible sign of begged for the Virgen's for­She appnan~d north of her divine will. giveness for his having ignored Tenochtitlan at Tcpeyac, which Having learned that his uncle, her will for so long. Zumarraga had been the site of a shrine to Juan Bernardino, had taken ill, proceeded to order the con­saint of Mexico ... My grand­grand lady ,La Virgen de the Azll~c goddess. Tonantzin, Juan Diego was unable tore­struction of the temple at mother did the same when my Guadalupe, that forever pro­or "Our Mother." turn to the hill at Tepeyac. On Tepeyac as the Virgen had mother was stricken with po­tects our people. 
The Virgen told Juan Diego to Tuesday. when Juan willed. Juan Diego returned lio ... Truly, La Virgen is the go to sec the bishop in Bernardion's condition had home to find his uncle fully re­lifeblood of Mexico and of la "Know and understand, you 
Tcnoctitlan (now Mexico City), worsened, Juan Diego was sent cuperated. raza [the Mexican people]." the most humble of my children, to describe the vision he had to Tlatelolco to summon a that I am the Blessed Mary, seen, and to convey her divine priest for his dying uncle. The story of Juan Diego has Indeed, the La Virgen de ever virgin Mother of the true wish that a temple be erected at Not wishing to be waylaid endured for over 450 years and Guadalupe is a distinctly God for whom thou lives; of the Tepeyac. Juan Diego was re­should he run into the Virgen, is central to the abiding Mexican symbol. She spoke to Creator of all things; Lord of 
ceived at the palace of the Juan Diego decided on an al­Catholic faith of the Mexican the Indian Juan Diego in Heaven and of earth. I deeply 
bishop, Fray Juan de ternate route as he approached people. The cloak of Juan Diego Nahuatl, an Indian language, desire that a temple be erected Zumarraga. but the bishop Tepeyac. As he made his way is enshrined at the Basilica of and app~ared at the sight of here so that within it I can quickly dismissed the Indito's around Tepeyac, the Virgen Our Lady of Guadalupe, in the ancient shrine of an Aztec show and give all of my love, story. suddenly appeared in his path. Mexico City. Scientific studies goddess. The Virgen thus con­compassion, assistance, and 
That same day, saddened Embarrassed, Juan Diego have been unable to explain the firmed that the sons of the shelter, for I am the merciful 
and disheartened. Juan Diego kneeled before the virgen and origins or durability of the conquered race were not only mother; for you, for all of the returned to the sight of the ap­explained his uncle's sickness. cloak's fabric. Hundreds of humans, but worthy of salva­inhabitants of this land, and parition whereupon the Virgen The Virgen assured Juan Diego thousands of Mexicans, mostly tion. Unlike the Virgin Mary of for the rest of those believers reappeared. He bowed to the that his uncle would regain his the poor and the oppressed, Europe, La Virgen de who invoke and confide in me; Virgen and assured her that he health. She told him that upon make daily pilgrimages to the Guadalupe is depicted with a there I shall listen to their would do as she bade though he the summit of the hill nearby, Basilica to pay homage to La brown complexion like that of sorrows, and free them from 
felt he was unworthy for the there would be many different Virgen de Guadalupe. the mestizo people, of whom all their misery, grief, and an­task. The Virgen told Juan flowers. The great lady in­she is the protectress. So, guish." Dingo that there were many structed Juan Diego to climb "It is a beautiful and heart­whenever we, the sons and La Virgen de Guadalupe to servants available to convey her the hill, cut the flowers and rending spectacle," says Notre daughters of Mexico, look at Juan Diego. message to Zumarraga, but bring them to her. Dame student Mauricio Valdes. the lady atop the golden dome 
that she had chosen him as the Juan Diego climbed the hill "Thousands of people, young we are possessed by special editor's note: this article was appropriate person to manifest and was amazed to find a har­and old alike, travel for miles thoughts and emotions. We written on behalf of the her will. Thus encouraged. Juan vest of beautiful flowers thriv­on their knees to the basilica to think of the hill at Tepeyac, the Hispanic American 
Dingo returned to the bishop ing in the midst of winter. He pay their respects to the patron small Indio Juan Diego and the Organization 
Despite the pleasant atmosphere,Yesterday's not worth remembering 

SARAH VOIGT in either the sprawling, family-
GREG GUFFEY style rooms or in a small, but 
accent writers comfortable, bar. 
As for the food, little else, 
With the new and innovative other than their specialty of dining choices available in the blackened prime rib, stimulated Miehiana area today, our palates. The blackened Yesterday's may soon be prime rib was mesquite-grilled deemed a restaurant of the with cajun spices and served past. with au jus and horseradish. 
Yesterday's, a family-style The spices created a distinctive restaurant and adjoining bar flavor that highlighted an located on Ind. 23 in Granger, otherwise dull meal. offers a dull menu and a com­mon atmosphere. The prices The specialty comes in three are affordable, but the quality sizes -10, 12 and 14 ounce por­of the food is ordinary. tions. The 12 ounce variety, 
Housed in a residential, split-priced at $12.95, is the perfect level dwelling, Yesterday's amount for a hungry appetite. strives to present an inviting mood with blinking Christmas Despite its generous helping lights and decorative wreaths of gluey, green gravy, the adorning the restaurant's exte-chicken breast, priced at $7.95, rior. was bland and unappetizing. It 
Inside. hardwood floors, pas-was served on a bed of fettuc­tel shades, and country-style cine that tasted like the dining decor provide a relaxing dining hall's pasta. This dish is not atmosphere. Families may dine recommended. 
Yesterday's 
Ind. 23 in Granger, Indiana 
Reservations: recommended Type of food: country style Atmosphere: casual Cost: moderate 
The entrees are served with a salad and a choice of baked potato, cooked vegetables or french fries. The mixed vegeta­bles were mushy, overcooked and drowned in butter. Let's face it, a baked potato is a baked potato wherever you dine. 

The fresh tossed salad was The dessert selection included also ordinary, featuring only six tempting items served on lettuce and a few slices of chilled plates which were tomato. Order the dressing on brought to .each table on a tray. the side, to avoid the risk eating The German chocolate pie drowned lettuce. tasted rich and finished an 
otherwise sour meal on a sweet note. The dinner rolls were fresh but could have been tastier if 
The service was exemplary warmed. The list of appetizers 
during the course of the meal was extensive, except it failed 
but lagged when it came time to mention the chicken wings. for the check. The waitress re-They were only listed on the 
plenished beverages before re­table-tent menu. quests. 
The meatball appetizer was Yesterday's also offers a dry, though doused in marinara lunch menu with a variety of sauce and cheese. At $3.95 for cold sandwiches. Reservations three meatballs, this appetizer are recommended. Credit cards would not have been worth the are also accepted. price even it was gourmet quality. The New England clam Yesterday's will soon expand chowder, priced at $1.95, was its menu to offer a wider choice one of the few bright spots on of entrees. ­the menu. It was creamy, rich and laden with pieces of clam Maybe tomorrow will be and potato. brighter for Yesterday's. 
Tuesday, December 12, 1989
page 8 The Observer 
Reagan to Gorbachev: The 1980s in review 
(AI') -The 1980s began in crisis: the 
crisis of tfw hostages. the crisis of 
Afghanistan. the crisis of striking 
shipyard workers in Poland. The decade 
is now ending with the unexpected: the 
sight of communism's walls crumbling. 
of new powers rising in the world. of 
hostages still held. 
IIere is a chronology of an eventful 10 
years. years of tumult, disaster and 
accomplishment: 
1980: AMERICA HELD HOSTAGE 
JAN. 4 -President Carter announces 
sanctions, including grain embargo and 
boycott of Moscow Summer Olympics, 
to protnst Soviet intervention in 
Afghanistan. 
APRIL 24-U.S. military operation to rescue 52 American hostages in Iran fails. Eight U.S. servicemen killed when two aireraft collide in Iranian desert. 
MAY 18 -Mount St. Helens volcano in Washington state erupts. hurling ash and darkening skies for hundreds of miles. Blast kills 57 people and causes over $3 billion in damage. 
AUG. 14 -Electrician Lech Walesa leads strike at Gdansk shipyard to start Polish worker revolt against Communist state. Eventually 10 million Poles join independent trade union Solidarity. 
SEPT. 20 -Iran-Iraq border skirmishes escalate into war. Eight­year conflict eventually leaves more than I million dead, including thou­sands of civilians. 
NOV. 4-Ronald Reagan elected 40th president of United States. defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter. 
NOV. 21 -Fire at MGM Grand Hotel in Las Vegas kills 84 people. DEC. 8-Former Beatie John Lennon shot to death in New York City. 
1981 : YEAR OF ASSASSINS 
JAN. 20 On day Reagan inaugurated. American hostages freed after 444 days of captivity in Iran. 
MARCH 30 -Reagan seriously wounded in assassination attempt. 
APRIL 12-Shuttle Columbia. world's first re-llyable spaceship, launched into space. 
MAY 13 -Pope John Paul II wounded by gunman as he greets visitors in St. Peter's Square in Rome. 
JUNE 7 -Israel launches air strike and destroys Iraqi nuclear reactor outside Baghdad. Israel said Iraq planned to manufacture plutonium for nuclear bombs. 
JUNE 12 -Major league baseball players begin 50-day strike. 
JULY 29 -Prince Charles, heir to English throne. marries Lady Diana Spencer. 
AUG. 3 -Air traffic controllers go on nationwide strike, and 11,500 are fired two days later after defying Heagan's 48-hour back-to-work ultimatum. 
SEPT. 25 -Sandra Day O'Conner sworn in as first woman to sit on U.S. Supreme Court. 
OCT. 6 -President Anwar Sadat of Egypt is shot to death by Moslem extremists. 
DEC. 13 -Martial law declared in Poland; Solidarity banned. 
1982: YEAR OF INVASION 
APRIL 2 -Argentina invades British­held Falkland Islands. Fighting costs more than 1,000 lives before Britain recaptures islands June 14. 
JUNE 30 -Proposed U.S. Equal Rights Amendment banning sex discrimination dies after reaching deadline without necessary ratification by 38 states. 
SEPT. 14-Bomb blast kills newly elected Lebanese President Bahshir 
Gemayel.  Gemayel's  brother  Amin  
succeeds him.  
SEPT.  16-18  Some  600  

Palestinians are massacred in Beirut refugee camps by Lebanese Christian militiamen allowed in area by Israeli authorities. 
SEPT. 21-NOV. 21 -National Football League shuts down during eight-week players strike. SEPT. 24-30 -French. Italian and 
U.S. peacekeeping forces arrive as Israeli army withdraws from Beirut. 
SEPT. 29 -Seven people in Chicago area die of cyanide poisoning in Tylenol tampering case, which remains unsolved. 
NOV. 1 0 Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev dies. 
DEC. 2-Retired dentist Dr. Barney Clark becomes first recipient of permanent artificial heart. He lived 112 days. 
president from January 1981 to January 1989. 
1983: SUPERPOWER CHILL MARCH 8 -Reagan denounces Soviet Union as "evil empire." 
APRIL 18 -U.S. Embassy in Beirut destroyed by truck bomb and 63 people die, including 17 Americans. 
AUG. 21 .:.._ Former Philippine Sen. Benigno Aquino assassinated in Manila as he returns from three years of U.S. exile. 
SEPT. 1 -Korean Air Lines Flight 007 shot down in Soviet airspace over Sakhalin island by Soviet fighters, killing all 269 people aboard. 
OCT. 5 -Nobel Peace Prize awarded to Solidarity's Walesa. 
OCT. 22 "No nukes" demonstrations across U.S. and Europe to protest planned deployment of new medium-range missiles in Western Europe. 
OCT. 25 -U.S. troops invade Caribbean island of Grenada, oust leftist leadership. 
NOV. 23-Soviets walk out of arms control talks, protesting deployment of new missiles in Western Europe. 

Reagan honors Notre Dame 
President Ronald Reagan rears back to pass a football presented to him by the Notre Dame football team Wednesday, Jan. 18, 1989 during honor ceremonies in the Rose Gar­den. Behind Reagan is the Irish head coach Lou Holtz. Reagan invited the 1989 national football champions to the White House two days before leaving office. Reagan served as 
DEC. 20 -PLO mutiny forces evacuation of leader Yasser Arafat and 4,000 followers from last stronghold in Lebanon. 
1984: MORNING IN AMERICA 
JAN. 1 -Ameriean Telephmw & Telegraph broken up into seven regional companies, "Baby Bells." as part of settlement of federal anti-trust suit. 
FEB. 9 -Soviet leader Yuri Andropov dies. Konstantin Chernenko nanwd to replace him four days later. 
FEB. 26-Heagan orders withdrawal of American forces from Beirut. 
MAY 7 -Moderate candidate .Jose Napolean Duarte elected presidtmt ovm ultra-conservative rival in civil war-torn El Salvador. 
JULY 18-Twenty-one people fatally shot in McDonald's restaurant in San Ysidro, Calif., by James Oliver llubmty, who is killed by police sharpshooter. 
JULY 29-Summer Olympics begin in 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12;30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233·7009. WORDPROCESSING 272·8827  $100REWARD II you have my tan camelhair overcoat lost at SMC Junior Formal. I need the coat and $1 00 will buy you alot of X·mas presents. CALL 283·3270 WANTED  FOR RENT NEAR N.D. Clean. comfortable, and furnished apartments: • 755 South Bend Ave, efficiency· $225, 1 bedroom·$265. • 607 1/2 E. Corby, 1 bedroom·  PERSONALS ORANGE BOWL FLIGHTS CALL 1·800·7DOMERS Chicago · $295 Cincinnati · $245  SENIORS SENIORS Pick up Weekly Bulletin at Career & Placement Services Hand in two profiles for the invitational interviews during the first two weeks of the Spring semester. DEADLINE: Friday. Dec. 15  ICEBERG DEBATES Deadline to turn in applications to Hall Presidents is Dec. 1 0 Get involved now! ICEBERG DEBATES  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 TEXTBOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD PANDORA'S BOOKS CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND HOWARD 233·2342 LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN STOCK! TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 NEED RIDE to WASH. D.C. AREA leav1ng Dec.22 WILL SHARE EXPENSES! PLEASE CALL JEN 284·4314 TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277· 5134 Cathy.I LOST/FOUND I LOST · Navy I cream down coat at NO Ave. Apts. If found, please call Whitney@ x-2744. Thanks.  EARN $300·$500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 1·615·473·7440 EXT. B340. OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 mo. Summer.yr.round,AII Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52·1N04, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. ATIENTION ·HIRING! GOVERNMENT JOBS-YOUR AREA. $17,840·$69.485. CALL 1· 602·838·8885. EXT A 6262. FEDERAL,STATE AND CIVIL SERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING THIS AREAl $10,271 TO $84,157. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL 1· 315·733·6062 EXT# F2382H FOR CURRENT LISTING. GOING TO THE ORANGE BOWL? ARE YOU DRIVING? I need a ride BACK to anywhere on the east coast alter the game. I'm fun. I'll make great conversation & I'll even pay & drive. Please call Karen x1511.  $295. Deposit, references . 616·483·9572. MALE/FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR NEXT SEMESTER. OWN BEDROOM, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, HOUSE IN GREAT CONDITION. 120/MO. +UTIL. PLEASE CALL 289·4621. House available 1990·91 school year. Furnished, well maintained, secure home. 5 bedrooms, WID, close to campus. Competitive rent. Call 264·6010 FLORIDA KEYS-ORANGE BOWL Marathon, Fla Keys-2hrs Miami Dec. 23·30; 212; Sleeps 6 Sun, Fishing, Snorkeling, Pool $1000+$200 Security Deposit 813­996·6159 Alter 9pm EST Nice furnished homes for next school year. Close to NO. 277· 3097. FOR SALE BUYING can be CHEAPER than RENTING! INVEST in your  Cleveland· $311 Dallas · $320 Denver · $351 Detroit · $280 Louisville · $245 Philadelphia · $270 New Orleans · $200 LaGuardia· $310 Boston · $328 Pittsburgh · $320 Los Angeles · $440 CALL 1·800·7DOMERS MOST FLIGHTS 12/29 AND 1/3. SEATS ARE LIMITED. ADOPTION · Well-educated couple eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home full of books. Flexible on sharing information with birth mother about child. Our adoption agency can provide counseling and references. Please call collect 309·827 ·3135 evesiwknds lor profile/photo. James and Hollis. HIAG! Roll TIDE. Roll!!! Roll TIDE. Roll!!!,  SANTA IS COMING SANTA IS COMING GET YOUR PICTURE TAKEN WITH SANTA ON DEC. 14 FROM NOON·5PM IN LAFORTUNE SANTA IS COMING Congratulations Father Lardner!! You have once again found a scapegoat lor the dorm's complete lack of respect for you. The trumped up charge against Steve will effectively maintain the charade of you as our dorm's leader, and will go a long way towards insuring that you have to go to other dorms to lind RA's in the years to come. As a friend recently said, "You know... I never really disliked a priest before I came to Notre Dame." I need a ride to Cincinnati on Dec 21st or 22nd. I will help gas and driving etc. Call Mike at #1865.  SENIORS SENIORS Pick up Weekly Bulletin at Career & Placement Services Hand in two profiles lor the invitational interviews during the first two weeks of the Spring semester. DEADLINE: Friday, Dec. 15 KAPLAN MCAT COURSE BOOKS for sale. Call X4098. Daytona Beach SP'ing'90 !just do it! $239 complete xll95 Shant• x1874 Jeff or Ken 2H4·4407 lenniler Prayer to the Holy Spirit .,,lplrH, rou w11o 111b 111 •• ovrylloill &IIIIWI.II•etfiiWIJII rucll.,lllllli. Y• -PVI ..till dlvla1 1n II IDI'IIvl & llrllllh wrong tut II lion 11 1111, &Y• IIIII 11'1 II 10 IIIIIIKII II IIJ Ill wttb ­~ 1111111 llbart dillo1•• WU1 to tblllk YuIll' IIII"J1fllll & CDiftrtlllltl .... tht I MYr  
- HELP !II Lost one brown leather bomber jacket Saturday night at theWormll In the pockets were my 1.0 ·s. glasses, and a Kodak camera! Please call if you have any  RIDERS NEEDED­I'M DRIVING HOME TO WASH. DC WED. DEC 20TH. WILL TAKE RIDERS. CALL 1511. RIDERS NEEDED for travel from SB to San Diego-tv p.m.  FUTURE! Call MARILYN KULLER to DISCOVER how! RE/MAX 100 Realty, 255·5858, 234·6325 GOING TO THE ORANGE BOWL? I HAVE A 1 WAY PLANE TICK. 4 SALE. JAN 9 FROM MIAMI TO  Roll TIDE. Roll!!! Roll TIDE, Roll!!! I AM WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS FOR AN ORANGE BOWL  ADOPTION Doctor & artist. happily marned. warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal. confidential. Please call  WM1 II Ill IIPirollll rra. Yao II miter kiW IJ'II1 till mterlll d11r1 mr Ill; Iwut 11 Ill 111111 ,......, IIIIIIIDIIII ,_~111111 ...,.,, AmiL Tblnk Yao lor Yorlne tewol"' • wililY land onu. l'lr..IUIII fii'IJ IIIII ,...,.. I tDDIItliiiVI diJI wtlbaut IIkill rar wt1b. Attar tb1 ll'd dey JIDI' wllll wt1 Ill ll"lllld oa lllttll' n lllllltuH Hmy  
information concermng this coat!! Call: Tina @284·5199  1212D-any city near route ok­CALL JAMES@ 237·9533!  WASHINGTON/BALT. VERY CHEAP! CALL 1511.  GA. PLEASE CALL KELLY AT #1342  Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864· 5512  lUll. TIIID pramlu to PUbUib tlril dill-II uoa 11 th1 llvur llgrutlll. P.1.  


Tuesday, December 12, 1989 
The Observer page 9 
A decade of revolution... 
Los Angeles despite Soviet-led boycott of 14 nations. 
OCT. 23 -NBC airs BBC footage of 3-year-old drought in Ethiopia, resulting in outpouring of charitable contributions. Famine kills over 1 million people. 
OCT. 31 -India's Prime Minister Indira Gandhi assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards in revenge for Golden Temple attack. Her son Hajiv Gandhi succeeds her. 
NOV. 6-Beagan elected to second presidential term, defeating Walter Mondalc. 
DEC. 3 -Leak of deadly methyl isocyanate gas at Union Carbide plant in Bhopal. India, kills 3,400 people, injums 20,000. 
1985: YEAR OF TERRORISM 
FEB. 16 -Israeli army begins withdrawal from Lebanon. 
MARCH 10 -Soviet leader Chernenko dies. Mikhail Gorbachev, youngest Politburo member, named leader the next day, ushering in era of "glasnost" and "perestroika." 
MARCH 16 -Associated Press correspondent Terry Anderson kidnapped in Beirut. By end of decade, eight Americans are held, Anderson the longest. 
MAY 24-25 -Cyclone roars ashore in Bangladesh. killing 11,000 people. 
MAY 30 -In most prominent of series of espionage cases. John Anthony Walker, retired Navy communications specialist, is arrested for passing secret documents to Soviets. 
JUNE 6 -Body believed to be that of long-sought diabolical Nazi doctor Josef Mengele exhumed in Brazil. 
JUNE 14-TWA Flight 847. on flight from Athens to Rome, hijacked to Beirut. Hijackers kill a U.S. Navy diver and hold 39 hostages for 17 days. 
JUNE 23 -Bomb explodes on Air­India Flight 182 off Irish coast, killing all 329 people aboard. 
JULY 13 -Rock's biggest names stage Live Aid concerts in London and Philadelphia, raising $85 million for African famine relief. 
AUG. 12 -In decade's worst air disaster, Japan Air Lines 747 crashes near Tokyo. killing 520. 
OCT. 1 -Israeli jets, retaliating for killings of three Israelis in Cyprus, attaek PLO headquarters in Tunisia, killing at least 68 people. 
OCT. 2 -Actor Hock Hudson dies of AIDS at age 59. 
OCT. 7-10 -PLO terrorists seize 
Italian cruise liner Achille Lauro and 
kill American passenger. Hijackers dock 
in Egypt, negotiate with Egyptians and 
PLO. U.S. planes intercept Egyptian 
plane carrying hijackers to Tunisia and 
force it to land in Sicily. 
NOV. 13-14-Colombia's erupting Nevado del Ruiz volcano melts snoweaps, causing massive mudflow that buries town of Armero, killing 25,000 people. 
NOV. 19-21 -Reagan and Gorbachev meet at Geneva summit, first meeting between superpower leaders in six years. 
DEC. 12 -Arrow Air charter DC-8 
crashes after takeoff in Newfoundland; 
all 256 people aboard die, including 248 
U.S. servicemen returning from Mideast 
for holidays. DEC. 27 -Terrorist gunmen stage 
Farmers! 

Steve Megargee
. 
IS 
21 today! 
simultaneous attacks at check-in counters at Rome and Vienna airports. Eighteen· people die, including four gunmen, and 121 are wounded. 
1986: YEAR OF REVOLUTION 
JAN. 28 -Explosion of space shuttle Challenger kills seven, including teacher-in-space Christa McAuliffe. 
FEB. 7 -Jean-Claude Duvalier flees Haiti, ending his family's 28-year dictatorship. 
FEB. 25 -President Ferdinand Marcos leaves Philippines in face o( popular upheaval after rigged elections; Corazon Aquino becomes acting president. 
FEB. 28 -Swedish Prime Minister Olof Palme assassinated by lone gunman in Stockholm. 
APRIL 2-Bomb explodes on TWA jet over Greece; four killed. 
APRIL 5 -Bomb at West Berlin discotheque frequented by U.S. servicemen kills two, injures 200. U.S. says Libya involved. 
APRIL 15-U.S. air strike against Libyan military and political targets in retaliation for discotheque bombing. 
APRIL 26 -Explosion at Chernobyl nuclear power station near Kiev in 
U.S.S.R. kills at least 31, hurts some 300. 
AUG. 21 -Cloud of toxic gas from volcanic Lake Nios in Cameroon envelops several villages, killing 1,7 46 people, and injuring 874. 
SEPT. 26 -William Rehnquist becomes Chief Justice of Supreme Court; Antonin Scalia sworn in as new associate justice. 
OCT. 22 -Tax reform, major amendments to federal tax code eliminating many tax breaks and loopholes, signed into law. 
NOV. 14 -Arbitrager Ivan Boesky pleads guilty to criminal charges in burgeoning Wall Street insider-trading scandals. 
NOV. 25-Reagan reveals diversion of Iranian arms sales proceeds to Nicaraguan Contras, and dismisses aides John Poindexter and Oliver North in unfolding Iran-Contra scandal. 
1987: YEAR OF SCANDAL 
JAN. 5 -Reagan presents nation's first trillion-dollar federal budget. 
MARCH 19 -In sex-and-money scandal, televangelist Jim Bakker resigns as head of PTL and Christian theme park Heritage USA. 
MAY 8 -Democratic front-runner 
Gary Hart quits presidential race amid 
reports of extramarital affair with 
Donna Rice. Hart re-enters race in 
December, then withdraws for good. 
MAY 17 -Iraqi warplane fires 
missiles at frigate USS Stark on patrol 
in Persian Gulf, killing 37 sailors. 
MAY 28 -West German teen-ager 
Mathias Rust lands small plane in 
Moscow's Red Square. 
AUG. 7-Central American presidents sign peace pact calling for democratic reforms, amnesties and end to outside support for insurgencies. OCT. 19 -Black Monday on Wall Street. Dow Jones average drops record 508 points on U.S. stock exchanges; other world markets decline. 
OCT. 23 -Senate rejects nomination of Robert Bork to Supreme Court. 
The Basement of Sorin 
APPhoto 
Gorbachev takes over 
The Soviet Union saw four different leaders in the 1980s. Mikhail Gorbachev, seen here on Lenin's mausoleum during the 1989 May day ceremonies, took control in the U.S.S.R. on March 11, 1985. He immediately began a wave of reforms in the Soviet Union, which quickly spread throughout Eastern Europe. The reforms culminated in the dramatic open­ing of the Berlin Wall on November 9, 1989, possibly signaling the end of the Cold War. 
NOV. 29 -South Korean jetliner disappears over Burma with 115 aboard; woman later confesses to planting bomb as part of North Korean conspiracy. 
DEC. 8 -Reagan and Gorbachev sign treaty to destroy 2,611 Soviet and American medium-range missiles. 
1988: NATURE'S FURY 
FEB. 25-26 -President Eric Delvalle of Panama tries to fire military chief Gen. Manuel Noriega, indicted in U.S. on drug-smuggling charges. Noriega ousts Delvalle, precipitating crisis and failed U.S. attempts to remove Noriega.
APR. 4 -Gov. Evan Mecham of Arizona impeached and removed from office for financial irregularities and other offenses. 
MAY 15 -Soviets begin withdrawing troops from Afghanistan. 
SUMMER -Worst drought since Dust Bowl days, prolonged record high temperatures nationwide, catastrophic forest and brush fires in the West, and pollution-choked beaches combine for grim American summer that heightens fears of "greenhouse effect." 
JULY 3 -Iran Air A300 jetliner shot down by U.S. warship Vincennes in Persian Gulf, killing all 290 aboard. 
AUG. 8 -U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cueller announces Iran­Iraq cease-fire. 
SEPT. 12-16 -Hurricane Gilbert, with winds up to 160 mph, strikes Jamaica, Cayman Islands, Mexico and Texas, killing 300 people. 
NOV. 8 -George Bush elected president, defeating Michael Dukakis. 
DEC. 7 -Earthquake in Soviet 
DEC. 21 -Bomb explodes aboard Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland; 270 die. 
Happy Birthday Jennifer Linting! 

We Love You 
1989: YEAR OF FREEDOM 
MAR. 24 -Tanker Exxon Valdez spills more than 10 million gallons of oil in Alaska's pristine Prince William Sound. 
MAY 4 -Oliver North convicted on three counts, acquitted on nine. 
MAY 31 -Speaker of House Jim Wright announces resignation in face of ethics charges. 
JUNE 3 -Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini of Iran dies at age 86. 
JUNE 3 -Chinese troops firing indiscriminately march on pro­democracy crowds in Beijing, killing hundreds . 
JULY 3 -Supreme Court grants 
AUG. 19 
broad  authority  to  states  to  restrict  
women's  rights  to  terminate  
premancies.  

-Tadeusz Mazowiecki of Solidarity becomes prime minister in Poland, first non-communist head of government in East Bloc since World War II, after Solidarity sweeps June elections. 
SEPT. 17-21 -Hurricane Hugo sweeps through Caribbean and into South Carolina, killing 62. 
OCT. 17-Earthquake measuring 7.1 on Richter scale rocks San Francisco Bay area, killing 6 7, causing estimated $17 billion in property damage. 
NOV. 9 -East Germany opens borders, beginning of the end of Berlin Wall. 
NOV. 24-Czechoslovak Communist Party chief Milos Jakes and rest of Politburo resign after massive protests. 
DEC. 2-3 -Bush and Gorbachev meet at Malta summit to speed end of the Cold War. 

PREGNANT 
MOTHERS: 
PLWE DON'T SMOKE! 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY' 

page 10 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Lacrosse Club will have a meeting for anyone interested in joining the club Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the Angela Athh~tic Center. Anyone with questions should call 284-4027 or 284-4117. 
Any students who have their Hed Cross water safety instructors certification and who are interested in teaching swimming during the second semester to children of Notre Dam1~ faculty. staff and administration should contact Dennis Stark at 239-5983 bnforn leaving for semster break. 
lnterhall football equipment linal return will be 2 p.m. Friday. Dee. 15, at Gate 9 of the stadium. Failure to return equipnwnt will n~sult in a $170 charge to your student account. 
Women's track will have a mandatory meeting with the athletic director at 7 p.m. Wednesday, Dec. 13. in the football auditorium. Call x2870 for more information. 
Mark Davis. who won the National League Cy Young Award last s1mson. joined American Leagm~ Cy Young winner Bret SabnrhagPn on the roster of the Kansas City Hoyals by signing a 4-year. 13 million dollar contract yesterday. Davis's signing made Kansas City the first team ever to take both n~igning Cy Young pitchers into spring training. 
Tuesday, December 12, 1989
The Observer 
, 
•
... 
AP Photo 
Makko Makela's third period goal propelled the Los Angeles Kings to a 2-2 tie with the Montreal Canadiens Monday night allowing them to break a five-game skid in the forum. In other NHL action. the Toronto Maple Leafs downed the St. Louis Blues 3-1. Goalie Mark LaForest made 35 saves in the first two periods to keep Toronto in the game. The Maple Leafs got two third period goals from Gary Leeman to grab their third straight victory. 
Honors 
continued from page 12 
BiggPst SPason-Ending ChokP: In mid-October, North Carolina State was 6-0 and looked like the best unknown team in the country. Then came a loss to Clemson. Two games later. the Wolfpack fell to Vir­ginia. which was followed by a loss to Duke. In less than a month. the Wolfpack went from the top I 0 to the Copper Bowl. Good work. guys. 
BiggPst SurprisP (Individual) l.ove him or hate him, how many people outside the state of Texas actually knew about lleisman Trophy winner Andre Ware before the season startPd'? 
Biggest UpsPt: Fn~sno State enterml the Land of Enchant­nwnt with a 17-game winning streak. a top-25 ranking and a California Haisin Bowl (sorry. I won't mention it again) invita­tion. New Mexico had won three of its last 20 contests. Fresno State coach Jim Sweerwy had ridieuled the Lo­bos and tlwir losing ways. 
That was a mistake. Sweeney's comments inspin~d New Mexico to a 45-22 victory in which the Lobos maintained control throughout the game. 
Best PlayPr: As has been said through the entirn season. it was a tough year to pick a dear-cut best player in the na­tion. The top two candidates. Indiana running back Anthony Thompson and Houston quar­terback Andre Ware, both padded their statisties against weak opposition. 
In fact. neither Thompson's lloosinrs nor Ware's Cougars actually beat a top-quality team. unless you're willing to put Texas Tech in that cate­gory. 
The pick here is Thompson. who played behind an inexperi­enced offensive line and still managed to better his numbers from the past three years. This is one of those seasons where the player who has the best ca­reer. not just season, should 
...., 
win the honor . 
Of course. the fact Ware played for a probation-ridden team that took pleasure in run-
Ski the Mississippi Tour #1-Jan. 3-5 Tour #2-Feb. 9-11 Call today! 1-264-3984 Deadline: Dec. 14 
RUSSIA 
Intercollegiate Tour , July 1990 Led by Prof. James Butterfield (PHd, Notre Dame) For information contact: Western Michigan 0. Office of International Affairs Kalamazoo, Ml 49008 Tel. toll free 1-800-876-3951 
8//l;;,.
Beautifully designed with you in mind 
SPECIAL 
25% off 6' Ficus Trees u· Spn.oce Wreolh with low 
50% off all Christmas INDlAN RIDGE PLAZA Merchandise -wreaths, (~:~~~c?~=n~,;;,.:)'1~~~ poinsettias, garland, and more 
Orange Bowl Special 
•-Tickets Available_
... 

*Complete Package Includes: air, beach, hotel, parade, and game ticket 
*air-only available 
Preferred Tickets and Tours 1-800-828-8955 
:f..
.. 
The Castle:··: 
272-8471 
-
Old College Nights 
Tuesday, Dec. 12 7:00p.m. 
Fr. Michael Himes Associate Professor, Theology will lead a discussion on PRIESTHOOD: WHAT IS A PRIEST? 
Old college nights are a time of shared hospitality, discussion, and prayer welcoming college students and others who are exploring an interest in pursuin~ a process of discerning a vocation to ministry and religious life in Holy Cross. The Old College is located on the Notre Dame campus facing St. Mary's Lake immediately behind the Log Chapel and Architecture Building. 
ning up the scorn on Southern Methodist doesn't help his cause. 
Special mention also should be given to Michigan Stale lirwbacker Percy Snow. winner of the Butkus (best linebacker) and Lombardi (best linebacker/lineman) awards. 
Most Overlooked PlayPr: Most of the Ware backers in the lleisman race argued that the Houston quarterback should win the award because he had the best statistics. Those voters seemed to over­look the fact that Brigham Young quarterback Ty Detmer had equal numbers. It just goes to show how one's lleisman chances can be damaged if he does not garner preseason at­tention or come from a major media market (at least Ware had the latter going for him). 
Duke wide receiver Clarkston !lines also has not gotten his due recognition across the na­tion. llines has made the All­America team for the last two years. yet his name still is a mystery to many college foot­ball fans. 
Best Coach: It really would not be fair to give this award to anybody but Colorado's Bill McCartney. and he certainlv has done a splendid job. The work of Lou Holtz during this pressure-filled season also should earn him some sort of' prize. 
lloltz first had to start sea­son practices early because of the Kickoff Classic. Tlwn carne tlw news that Mi!'hael Storw­breaker. Tony Brooks and (;1~­orgp Williams would not be availabe. Tlwn the pn~ssun~s of ddending a national titlP. Then the tunrwl eontrovPrsy. Through it all. lloltz main­tained his poise. That must be worthy of something. 
Tuesday, December12, 1989 
The Observer page 11 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 34 Great deal 56 Nephew's sister 35 Woody fiber 60 Lean-directed
1 Italian pelf 37 Dark film5 Basque topper 38Yoko-64 Lady's escort, 10 Disturbance for short 
39 Faint 65 Errand runner 14 Brother of Eris 41 Dijon season 66 Obtains15 Greek 
marketplace 42 Of the kidneys 67 Terminates
16 Norse poetry 44 Vaudeville unit 17 Extinct bird 45 Pretty or shrewd 68 Organic salt 20 Kind of jury 46 Cubic meter 69 Knife of old 21 Graduating 47 Grain class warehouse 
DOWN
22 Quarrel 49 Ethiopian prince 26 Butt 1 Northerner in 
51 Affirmatives 27 Strong curse Europe
52 Flowery 30 Peruses ornament 
2Dies­3 Relax 4 Helps 5 Prohibit 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Omelet base 7 Caviar a Goofs 9 Come to a point 10 Rule 11 Concept: Comb. 
-.,.:;.+::~-+=-,.~ form BR-=-1110.1-=::+::~~+-=-~=-!,;,.;J.=:..J.;.+.:.-l 12 Smell 25 Opener for a 39 Skirt folds 55 Conceits j....:....j....;.+.:;..ll-...=:~ .:,:..j..!:+~::..j.!::...JIIII~-1-=-1=-1 13 Makes into hotel detective 40 Western Indians 57 Elysium leath<lr 27 Then, in Paris 43 Checks 
58 Mention tor 28 Musical nine 45 Sheaths military honors 
ittrnltlilill 1a Engrave
19 Trapped by 29 Make amends 48 "-,vidi, vici" 59 Facility sameness 31 Attu native 50 Put on 61 Salamander ~,:+:.~~ 23 Country singer 32 Duplicate 52 Storm 62 Golfer's peg -McEntire 33 Pilot 53 Frank 63 Hockey's Bobby ...:.....L:~:...L:..:.:.l..=..J 24 Pile up 36 Sheer linen 54 Beach material 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
I T/l.Y 10 Bt. G::CD ! I J)O .' l'lo\ \lS\lM.L'i 
HE?.? M~ ~E~Rr 15 1>.'5 P\JR~ t>.s f>-NIN~OC.ENT DRI'IE~ ~C>W! B~<sll>.t-\0 ... JIEY, lT"S J\l5T lt\I>.T, I S~"' 'ie>ll RC>\.L Wlli, SOIA.r.IIMES '{0\JR E'it:S! E'-JE~\'5 BE'{OO'i) $C) '10\l \Xlt-11 
M'i CPNTRcL Bt.L\£'1£ ME, C.OOSI>IRE £\\?! 
fi.,......q~ 
WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 




.. 

Sports 
Tuesday, December 12, 1989
page 12 
Belles' basketball has ups and downs, improves to 5-2 
'Digger bashing' by Irish fair-weather friends only hurts ND 
By CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 
Tlw Saint Mary's basketball tPam improved its rceord to 5­2, (4-1 NAJA). with a narrow 85-82 overtime victory over Northeastern Illinois University. 
The Belles started off slug­gishly in the first half. but cut NorthcaslPrn's lead to only 37­32 at the half. 
In tlw second half, the Belles began to take charge, tying the game at 39-39. 
"Most of the last half it was back and forth. They were up 
And last but not least... the final awards of '89 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
Now that the Walter Camp, Hnisman, Outland, Lombardi, Butkus, Coach's Choice and just about every other conceiv­able college football award in the country already has been handPd out. it would seem as though there would be no more mason to mention any season superlatives. 
Think again. With true bowl season still weeks away, it's eittH'r argw~ about the best of '89 or rplive last weekend's immortal California Haisin Bowl. And as tired as we may be of year-end awards, we're even more worn out of those an­noying raisins who finally have bnen usurped in attention by those equally taltmtt~d New Kids on the Block. 
That said. on with the awards, which celebrate both the highs and lows of the 1988 season (so far): 
Best Gaml': It wasn't the prettiest contest in the world. but tlwre couldn';t have been too many games this season as nxciting as the West Virginia-Pittsburgh tie on Sept. 30 at Morgantown. 
With Major Harris playing a Heisman-type game and Pitt making a mistake every time it had a chance to change the momentum. West Virginia had a 31-9 lead in the fourth quarter. The t>anthers rallied with three touchdowns, then a field goal on the game's final play, to earn the tie. 
Hunner-up: Michigan's 24-23 win at UCLA. Wolverine kicker J.D. Carlson eonverts an onside kick in the closing minutes, thm1 comes through with his fourth field goal of the game in the final play. 
Biggest Flop: When it comes to teams, it's a dead heat between UCLA and LSU. The Bruins' game with USC, where the attempted gamewinning field goal bounced off the crossbar. was a fitting conclusion to UCLA's season. LSU lost so many close games in the fourth quarter that the Tigers may as well have patented the practice. 
As far as individual players, South Carolina quarterback Todd Ellis' career, which started with such promise, ended with orw major injury and a plethora of key interceptions. Ellis was truly humbled in the last game of his college years, watching from the ESPN announcing booth as his and then we were and then they rallied to tie up the game," Head Coach Marvin Wood said. 
Gamecocks  were  getting  trounced  45-0  by  archrival  
Clemson.  
see HONORS I page 9  

At the end of regulation time, the game was tied at 75-75. Immediately into overtime the Belles took the lead. Senior guards Dawn Brohman and Julie Hadke each sank three­pointers in the overtime action. In the final ten seconds of play, junior guard Maria Tettenborn hit two free throws to secure the victory. 
"It was an exciting game," Wood said. "The girls were alert and sharp. It was a big win because it was against a Division II school. It was prob-the Belles lost to the University ably the biggest win in the six of Indianapolis 67-64 despite a years that I've been here." late second half comeback. 
Overall, the Belles turned in a The Belles suffered from very impressive performance. turnovers in the first half and 
Hadke led the team with 28 at the half they trailed 35-28. points, on five three-point shots and four assists. "In the first half, we were 
Sophomore Janet Libbing sloppy. Our timing wasn't good added 16 points and six assists, and our passing was inconsis­while Bohman and Tettenborn tent," said Wood. each contributed 13 points. The Belles shot 54 percent from the In the second half. the Belles field, made seven of nine· at­trailed by as much as 12 points, tempted three-pointers and but they rallied from behind to shot 84 percent from the free­take a 60-57 lead with just un­throw line. der three minutes left in the 
In play earlier in the week, game. Their effort was not 
,...,..,..-.,.... ~. (
,, ~t.:~·~..'·r." 
.... 
AP Photo 
Roger Craig scored on a 1-yard run in the fourth quarter to lead the San Francisco 49ers to a 30-27 comeback victory over the Los Angeles Rams last night. The Rams took a 24-1 0 lead in the second half on a pass from Jim Everett to Buford McGee, but the 49ers took advantage of two late L.A. turnovers and squeaked out the win. John Taylor caught a 49ers record 92-yard touchdown pass in the first half. 
n no ugh. how n v n r as 
Indianapolis pullnd ahead again for thn vietory. 
"I was impressed with the play of our girls in most of the last half. We eonsistently got . the ball to the right person and we were way down on turnovers," said Wood. 
Hadke was again th1~ top scorer. leading her team with 28 points and five assists. 
Senior forward Amy Baranko added 14 points and 10 re­bounds and I.ibbing talked eight points and six rebounds. 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
"Dump Digger!" 
The war cry has been sounded once again, and one of the tidiest college basketball programs in the na­tion is being unjustly attacked by the fans who should bP the most supportive-the students. 
Once again those of us who have been spoiled by a football program which has lost only one game in two years need .to be reminded that National Championships and consecutive-win streaks are not the most important objectives of college athletics. College sports are all about running a clean suc­cessful program, and nobody does that better than Digger Phelps. Every player who has ever played for four years under Phelps has graduated from Notre Dame. 
Phelps also wins more than his share of his bas­ketball games. In 18-plus years under Phelps's tute­lage, the Irish boast a record of 366-167 for a win­ning percentage of .675. 
But this year Notre Dame has run into some problems in the wake of the suspension of LaPhonso Ellis for academic reasons. Many so-called "experts" figured that the Irish would be outstand­ing this season as every player returned from a squad that went 21-9 a year ago. 
Those experts have been disappointed thus far as the Irish have lost three of their first four games, including an embarrassing 80-68 loss at Marquette this past weekend. So who shoulders the blame? 
You know who. 
Digger-bashing has once again become fashion­able on campus, especially among those who didn't bother to buy season tickets to support the team in its home games. 
Senior co-captain Jamere Jackson realizes that his team is not playing especially well, but he says that those who call for Phelps's resignation should keep their opinions to themselves. 
"I think students who are not at the games and don't know the game shouldn't talk about what they don't know about. He's been coaching for almost 20 years, and it's obvious that he knows the game-you can ask any other coach in the country. 
"A lot of people are front runners, and when a team loses a few games, they jump off the band­wagon. We are a family. We know what's going on. We'll get it back together." 
This team will eventually come back together, and when Ellis returns the team may make a run at the Final Four in Denver. But until then, Phelps will have to suffer through the catcalls of .those fans at home who are even more vicious than the Marquette students who thought the Irish and the Warriors were involved in some huge Midwestern hoops ri­valry. 
Phelps appears to realize that he mav have to make some changes in order to turn this team 
around. For starters, he has hinted that he will re­
evaluate the fast-breaking garneplan he instituted 
last season. 
Phelps said Saturday that the team will be more 
selective in running the noor, as turnovers have 
been his Achilles heel all year. The Irish will not 
abandon the fast-break attack, but they will have to 
learn when to run and when to pull. the ball back 
and set up the half court offense. 
He will also continue to search for a lineup which works well as a unit, particularly early in the game. Against Marquette he tried starting Elmer Bennett and Daimon Sweet at the guard positions normally occupied by Jackson and .Joe Fredrick, but that didn't do much good this oast Saturdav. 
Ellis may be the panacea for the Irish ills, but Phelps will have to suffer for a few more games un­til LaPhonso works his way into the lineup. When the team's plight finally does improve, however, don't expect Phelps to receive some credit and shed his Rodney Dangerfield image. Lou Holtz is the only coach who gets any respect on this campus. 
"Is that golf I just saw up there?" Phelps asked as he caught a glimpse of the television set in the media room at Marquette. "That's not a bad idea right now, is it?" 
It's a real bad idea right now, Digger. You have to take Notre Dame to the Final Four before you can think about hacking away at the Burke. Besides, it's too cold to golf in South Bend in December. 
• 

