
MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
VOL. XXIII NO. 31 
Riot police attack thousands of protesters in East Berlin 
Associated Press 
BERLIN -Riot police at­tacked demonstrators in East Berlin on Sunday, driving thou­sands of protesters from a pro­reform rally at a church and from a sit-in on a major av­enue. witnesses reported. 
A number of people were in­jured and at least 30 people were detained in the police ac­tions Sunday in East Berlin, witnesses said. No official re­ports were given. 
Paramilitary troops and po­lice with attack dogs forced demonstrators into sidestreets as the protesters shouted "We want freedom!" and "No vio­lence!" Hesidents held candles out their windows in support of the demonstrators. 
It was the second day of vio­lence between police and anti­government demonstrators. 
Hundreds of people were ar­rested during demonstrations in the capital and five other major cities Saturday, which marked the communist coun­try's 40th anniversary. 
About 5,000 people had been in or near Gethsemane Church during a pro-democracy vigil and an estimated 2,000 people staged a sit-in on the nearby Schoenhauser Allee after au­thorities blocked them from joining the church vigil, wit­nesses said. 
Thousands of the activists left the church area after suc­cessful negotiations between church officials and police to begin letting the demonstrators through police lines, witnesses said. Many then joined the protesters on the Schoenhauser Allee. 
However, police moved in to drive demonstrators into sidestreets several times, beat­ing many of them with trun­cheons and clubs and using trucks with steel-mesh barriers in front, witnesses said. 
Many apartment dwellers lighted candles in their windows and on balconies to show solidarity with the demonstra­tors. 
A middle-aged man who watched the action from his apartment window said: "It's getting worse and worse. Someday soon, rocks and Molotov cocktails are going to fly." 
East Germany accused the 

Career day is Wednesday for Arts and Letters 
By JANICE O'LEARY 
News Copy Editor 
The College of Arts and Letters is holding its Career Day on Wednesday, Oct. 11 in the lower level of the Center for Continuing Education from noon until 4 p.m. 
Associate Director of Career and Placement Services, Paul Reynolds, started Arts and Letters Career Day 11 years ago, and he is still organizing the annual event. 
Reynolds stressed that the major focus of Career Day is not to recruit students, but that it is rather "an information gathering" process provided for the students. 
According to Reynolds, Career Day is geared mainly towards sophomores and ju­niors in the College of Arts and Letters, but seniors are also encouraged to attend. 
"I feel for those sophomores and juniors it is a great opportunity to find out about a wide variety of careers," Reynolds said. 
Some of the careers repre­sented in the event include advertising, commercial banking, broadcasting, newspaper careers, legal professions, and retail industry. The companies that will be attending will answer questions and provide lit­erature about their field or industry. 
Leo Burnett will represent the advertising field and the American National Bank of Chicago will be representing 
commercial  banking.  The  
South  Bend  Tribune  and  
WNDU  will  also  be  
represented.  

"It is never too early to start assessing and thinking about the type of career you might pursue after graduation." said Reynolds. 
Western news media of encour­aging Saturday's protests. It refused to renew the visas of dozens of Western journalists who were in East Berlin for the two-day visit of Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev that ended Saturday. The reporters were told to leave the city when their visas expired at midnight Sunday. 
Hundreds of injuries were re­ported as police swinging trun­cheons repeatedly charged demonstrators in East Berlin on Saturday and early Sunday. Police punched, kicked, beat and dragged the protesters away, and roughed up Western journalists covering the demon­strations. 
At least one Western re­porter, Sunday Times of Lon­don correspondent Peter Millar, was detained for six hours. 
The East German protests were the largest since a work­ers' uprising was put down by Soviet forces in 1953. 
Gorbachev's reform policies have made him popular among many East Germans and protesters chanted his name and called for his support. 
Despite the growing unrest and the exodus of thousands of East Germans to the West, East German leader Erich Honecker said during talks with Gor­bachev Saturday that he would stick to his hard-line course. 
Also Sunday, a group of pro­democracy activists announced they had formed a Soci<!-1 
see RIOTS I page 5 
Hungary's communists terminate their party 
But amount of change is unclear 
Associated Press 
BUDAPEST, Hungary ­Communists at a historic congress have proclaimed their party's death and the birth of a Socialist Party aspiring to Western democratic ideals. But the difference between the old and the new remains unclear. 
• Hard-liners say Communist party still exists I page 4 
A document approved over­whelmingly by the congress Saturday terminated the Com­munist Party -called the Hun­garian Socialist Workers Party -and proclaimed the Hungar­ian Socialist Party its succes­sor. 
It was the first time a War­saw Pact Communist party formally terminated its exis­tence. The move was part of preparations for the first free national elections in 41 years. 
On Sunday, the party daily Nepszabadsag appeared with­out its customary title-page ci­tation from the Communist Manifesto: "Workers of the World Unite." 
Instead of the usual masthead proclaiming Nepszabadsag the central paper of the Hungarian Socialist Worker's Party, Sunday's edition simply identified it as a "socialist pa­per." 
Although the congress docu­ment sought to define ideologi­cal and practical differences between the old and the new party, senior officials differed over what that really meant. 
Party Chairman Rezsoe Ny­ers, true to his role as a mod­erate, said the document served "the rebirth of our party as a new left-wing Socialist Party." 
But Deputy Premier Peter Medgyessy was less optimistic 
see HUNGARY/ page 4 
Student escort service proposed 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Copy Editor 
A proposal for a security escort service will be discussed at tonight's Student Senate meeting. 
The proposal suggests that student volunteers be available as security escorts on Sunday through Thursday nights be­tween 7 p.m. and 1 a.m. at no cost to students. 
Students would be able to call for an immediate escort from anywhere on campus. Escorts would be dispatched from ei­ther the security office or a more central location, such as LaFortune Student Center. 
Junior Gina Mahony, who drew up the proposal, said that 60 to 70 volunteers, both male. and female, are needed to be escorts. 
Escorts would be chosen on the basis of recommendations from rectors and residence as­sistants, and approved by Secu­rity and the Department of Student Affairs. 
"At this point, I think the program will get funding, but I'm going to hesitate in saying that people will get paid." said Mahony. ''I'd like to see it de­
velop  into  paid  positions,  
though."  
According  to  Mahony, each  

escort would probably work once every week or two for about 3 hours each night. She said that escorts will receive about an hour of training and will not be armed or trained as campus police. 
"We want to do it to make people feel self-confident on campus, to make them feel that their campus is safe." she said. 
Although the program would be under the· regulation of the administration and security, Mahony said she hoped it would be very much student-run. 
"A lot of support is going to have to come from the hall staff and the RAs." she said. 
Student Senate became in­volved in the project when Ma­hony wrote a letter to The Ob­server in September, suggesting that the escort service be im­plemented. About 5 members of Student Government have worked on the plan with Ma­hony. 
To help her draw up the pro­posal, Mahony researched the escort services of other univer­sities such as Marquette Uni­versity, Miami of Ohio Univer­sity, and James Madison Uni­versity. 
Mahony said that Saint Mary's Student Government has not been involved in the project, since Saiqt Mary's has its own escort service already. 
The proposal must be ap­proved by both the administra­tion and security. Mahony said, she hopes a decision will be made by November 1. 

Monday, October 9, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
Mostly sunny with highs in the upper 50s and 60s today. Increasingly cloudy and warm Tuesday with a few showers possible. 
ALMANAC 
On October 9: e In 1701: The Collegiate School of Connecticut -later Yale University -was char­
tered in New Haven. e In 1919: The Cincinnati Reds won the World Series by 
defeating the Chicago White Sox. However, the victory turned hollow amid charges that eight members of the White Sox had accepted bribes from gamblers to throw the series in what became known as "The Black Sox Scandal." e In 1936: The first generator at Boulder (later Hoover) Dam began transmitting electricity to Los Angeles. 
lnformatron comprled from Observer WlftlS and ObservBr stall reports 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for October 9, 1989 

Volume in shares 
172.52 Million 
NYSE Index 
198.94 {} .89 
S&P Composite 
358.78 {} 1.81 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,785.52 {} 11.96 
Precious Metals Gold 1f $.30 to $363.70 I oz. 
Silver~ 6.7¢ to $5.19/ oz. 
Source: AP 

Question: How do you reach over 
12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 
WORLD BRIEFS 
A truce with drug traffickers was allegedly explored in Columbia by President Virgilio Barco's government, sparking ac­cusations and denials. Joaquin Vallejo, a former interior minister, said in reports published Sunday that he acted as a go-between in truce negotiations between the Medellin cocaine cartel and the government before an anti-drug crackdown began last month after the assassination of a senator. 
Members of a Latvian nationalist movement in Riga. 
U.S.S.R. voted Sunday to change their goal from local autonomy to outright independence from the Soviet Union. Delegates at the second annual congress of the People's Front of Latvia approved the change in a 126-point program aimed at setting the stage for a declaration of independence at some unspecified future date. 
The future of Antarctica is the cause of a dispute, pitting countries newly converted to environmentalism against the United States and others. The topic is expected to dominate a 39-nation meeting opening in Paris today. At stake is whether the vast con­tinent of stark mountains and sweeping glaciers will be left in pristine splendor or mined for mineral wealth. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Two atomic generators were packed aboard space shuttle Atlantis at Cape Canaveral on Sunday, as NASA prepared for a Thursday launch that anti-nuclear activists vow to block legally or physically. The generators, each containing 24.7 pounds of ra­dioactive plutonium-238 dioxide, were installed in the Galileo space probe stored in the shuttle's cargo bay. The devices are in­tended to power the probe after five astronauts release it for a six-year journey to Jupiter. 
A trail of spray-painted swastikas and racial slurs were left by vandals on a new downtown building, mailboxes, garages, homes and cars spread over a mile in Wellesley, Mass. Sunday. "We've had probably 40 to 50 separate complaints come in on this already," police Officer Joseph Collari said after dawn revealed the damage done overnight. 
The nation's jobless rate was pushed to 5.3 percent in September, due to the largest decline in payrolls at auto plants and other factories in nearly seven years, the government said Friday in a report showing unexpected softness in the economy. The civilian unemployment rate was up from 5.2 percent in both July and August. 
For using a chain saw to cut up a car allegedly driven by his son during a hit-and-run accident that killed a 15-year-old girl. a Babylon, New York father was a~r.ested and charg~d Sun­day. Vincent Senisi, 45, and Vincent Semsi Jr., 23, .were bem~ held in connection with the death of 15-year-old Jeamne Tolentmo of Dix Hills, said a spokesman for Suffolk County Police. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
A rally for the homeless that took place on Saturday in Washington, D.C. was attended by 92 Notre Dame students and nearly 550 Hoosiers. The rally attracted 200,000 to 300,000 peo­ple. Demonstrators gathered around the Washington Monument chanting, "What do we want? Housing! When do we want it? Now!" 
WEATHER 

Warmer 

Administration's policy on legal holidays is confused 

Today is Columbus Day. Millions of Americans 
across will have the day off from work and 
school. Federal and state offices across the 
nation will be closed, as America celebrates the 
497th anniversary of the discovery of the New 
World. 
But not at Notre Dame. For some reason, the 
administration has chosen to hold classes on 
Columbus Day, as it does on Labor Day, Memo­
rial Day, and many other legal holidays. 
Today, at least, the University will be com­
pletely open. However, as I'm sure most people 
know, the University, on other legal holidays, 
chooses to shut down partially. This is much 
worse than either staying open or closing down. 
On Labor Day and Memorial Day, Notre Dame 
holds classes, yet all administrative offices in 
the University are closed. This means that stu­
dents and faculty must work, but staff get the 
day off. 
This is not to suggest that staff do not deserve 
these holidays; they work very hard throughout 
the school year and they certainly are entitled to 
rest days to spend with their families and 
friends. 
The decision to keep the University only half­
open on at least two days of the year, however, 
means almost intolerable headaches for the 
other two branches of Notre Dame which must 
remain open: students and faculty. 
The absence of support staff, especially in de­partmental offices, is a great inconvenience for faculty. On Labor Day, for example, I had to check with the philosophy office to find out where a class I registered for met. 
After receiving no answer for an hour, I got in touch with a faculty member in the office. It took the professor 10 minutes to find the information I needed, something I am sure the office secretary in the office could have found in 20 seconds. This wasted both the professor's time and mine. 
Working at The Observer, I can testify that the bureaucracy at Notre Dame shuts down on 
OF INTEREST 
Alcohol Awareness Week is this week. October 9-13. Look for posters which will go up this evening for the daily events. Alcohol Aware­ness Week is sponsored by Bacchus. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 News Copy Editor ............ Sandra Weigand Sports Copy Editor................... Greg Guffey 
(219) 239-7471 Viewpoint Editor ..................... Dave Brunner Veiwpolnt Copy Edtlor ....... Janice O'Leary Viewpoint Layout ..................... Alison Cocks Accent Editor ......................Robyn Simmons 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) •s publrshed Monaay t111uugl1 Fnaay except Accent Copy Editor ............ Shonda Wilson dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer rs pubh~nN: t)y ~tudents of the Accent Designer...................... Allison Cocks Umvers1ty of Notre Dame and Sarnt Mary"s College Subsu·ptruns mav he pur· l't1ologapl""............................. Amy Lowery chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wntmg n·(· Observer Business Edtor ............................ Liz Panzica 
The Observer is a member of The Assocrated Pres' ll.:t •Pnroa.,ctron rognts Business Copy Editor........lauren Deluca are reserved Business layout........ Maureen Gallagher Ad Designers...................... Shannon Roach .................................. Kerry Clair.Maria Blohm ........................Ryan Roberts,Jeanne Naylor 
'It is clearly a major problem to shut down the offices students depend on.' 
Matt Gallagher Exec. News Editor 

such holidays. It is impossible to get a purchase order approved or to get information from various departments of the administration. 
Students, too, suffer the inconveniences of quasi-holidays. It is impossible to get a check casl\ed, to buy something at the bookstore, to drop or add a class, to make an appointment with an advisor, or any one of the myriad ac­tivities students need to perform on an average class day. 
Labor Day is particularly inconvenient because it usually falls in the first week of classes, a time in which students rely heavily on administrative offices within the colleges to deal with back-to-school schedule changes. In a period when time is precious, with many students fighting for the resources of a few offices, it is clearly a major problem to shut down those very offices that students depend upon to adjust schedules. 
It also seems· unfair to those staff members who must work on legal holidays, such as faculty and University Food Services employees. 
It is evident that the University should make up its mind about such quasi-holidays. It seems logical either to close the University down, not hold classes and not require faculty to work, or make such holidays normal work days. 
Matt Gallagher is a senior government major. The views expressed are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Senior Rap-Up sign-ups end today. Sign-ups are at the Center for Social Concerns. It is a great opportunity to relax with fellow se­niors over food and good conversation. 
Design Edllors..................... Karen Newlove Design Assistant ...... Wendy Cunningham Typeselll!r.................................. Fritz Valsaint .......................................................... Dan Towers Assistant News Editor............. Tim O'Keefe 

Monday, October 9, 1989 
The Observer page 3 
Chinese Awareness Week 
This is the first in a series of World Awareness weeks. This week focuses on China. It is sponsored by the Notre Dame Stu­dent Government Intellectual Life Commission, the Chinese Friendship Association and Chinese Student Solidarity Union. 
Schedule of Events: 
Monday, October 9 
7:00 p.m. "The Last Emperor" will be shown at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. with comments from Professor Mia Wang Bassham, Indiana University, South Bend. 
Tuesday, October 10 
8:00 p.m. "Manifestations of Themes of Confucianism and Chi­nese Literature in Chinese Society,"a lecture by Wenjuan Gu, se­nior editor of the Chinese Central Television, and Professor Xian Gao. Notre Dame, in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. 
Wednesday, October 11 
7:00 p.m. "Last 10 Years of Political/ Economic Reform in China," a lecture by Professors Peter Moody and Kwan Kim, Notre Dame, in the Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. 
Thursday, October 12 
13:00 p.m. "Tiananmen Square and The Future Prodemocracy Movement," a lecture by Professor Shaozhi Su, Marquette Uni­versity, and Lu Li, student leader of prodemocracy movement, now on the Chinese Government's wanted list. 
Friday, October 13 
6:30 p.m. Chinese meal at the Blue Room, North Dining Hall. Father Theodore llesburgh will speak about his experiences with U.S./ Chinese relations. Attendance is limited to fifty per­sons. Reservations must be obtained from the Student Govern­ment Secretary, 2nd floor LaFortune. 
M A T H 
1 
0 
1 
A public serv1ce message from The Observer 

Unsure of your plans for the future? Does acareer in sales bring images of vacuum cleaners to your mind? 
Find out the real story at... 


Sales Career Night 
Monday October 9, 7 to 9 PM Room 122 Hayes-Healy 
Come learn all about the various aspects of a career in sales from professionals representing: ~NLJ\NID SlriE!El lr!Hl!E WIHl~RUPOOl CORIP'OMT~ON IE &J GAllO 
~BM 
Everyone is welcome! 

AP Photo

Mickeying around 
Walt Disney company president Michael Eisner, left, and Eurodisneyland president Robert Fitzpatrick arrive at the Paris stock exchange Thursday in an old car driven by Mickey Mouse to announce the price of the Eurodisneyland share at 72 french francs. 




Bush administration admits that it prepared to seize Noriega in coup 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration was preparing covert action to seize Panama­nian leader Gen. Manuel Nor­iega during a coup attempt last week but the uprising collapsed before the plan could be exe­cuted, top officials said Sunday. 
President Bush made the de­cision near the end of a failed coup Tuesday, and the order was conveyed to the comman­der of U.S. forces in Panama, Gen. Maxwell Thurman, said Secretary of State James Baker and Brent Scowcroft, the White House national security adviser. 
"The message that was sent was that if there were an op­portunity to do this, without risking bloodshed and signifi­cant loss of American life, and to do so without open military involvement, then he was free to go ahead, the commander on the ground was free to gp ahead," Baker said on the NBC­TV program, "Meet the Press." 
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney said that at the outset of the coup, he told Thurman to be prepared to use peaceful means to take custody of Nor­iega, but the chance never came. 
"After the Panamanians had contacted us and told us ... that they had Noriega but that they would not give him to us, I made it clear that our com­mander on the scene was au­thorized to get him if he could, without using military force, and that he should develop an option or a plan to use military force to get him,' Cheney said on the CBS-TV program, "Face the Nation." 
"We never made the decision to use military force, that would have involved going in against the rebels and taking Noriega from them. I never thought that was a very good idea, but we told to him to be prepared in case he got the order to do so. Shortly after that, the coup fell apart," said Cheney. to do that, and outside the area where U.S. troops move and exercise, that have been the overt exercise of military force, perhaps into a fire fight, to block them in the heart of a heavily populated area," Scowcroft said. 
Noriega has told reporters that he was never in custody and "the last thing he has said was that, no, he was never there," said Scowcroft. 
Throughout the coup, said Scowcroft, the administration was in "the fog of war.... You are operating without a full deck of intelligence informa­tion." 
Changes will be made to avoid a repeat, he said, but did not spell out what steps were planned. 
Noriega moves to gain people's support 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama ­Gen. Manuel Noriega moved Sunday to gain the backing of the Panamanian people follow­ing an attempted coup, thank­ing them for "support that re­inforced" his leadership. 
A small group of officers and troopers of Panama's Defense Forces tried to oust Noriega Tuesday but the revolt was crushed by loyalists. 
Sunday's editions of the gov­ernment-owned La Republica newspaper were filled with ar­ticles praising Noriega and pic­tures of the general, comman­der of the Defense Forces. One nerves of steel." 
A message from Noriega was broadcast on nationwide televi­sion and radio at the end of an editorial on a military news program. 
In his message Noriega thanked Panamanians for "the demonstrations of moral and spiritual support that rein­forced the position of MAN (Manuel Antonio Noriega) and of his men in the critical mo­ment when the fate of Panama and its national liberation movement were at stake." 
"Those who think that the cause will fail if one man falls are mistaken," he said. 
Noriega has accused the failed coup. 
Washington has applied polit­ical and economic pressure in an effort to oust Noriega since February 1988 when he was in­dicted in Florida on drug-traf­ficking charges. Noriega says the indictments are part of a 
U.S. plot to renege on the treaties to turn the Panama Canal over to Panama at the end of the century. 
The news program's editorial declared, "We have a general for tough times commanding our troops." 
It said more "surprise at­tacks" could be in store and added, "We won't be caught 

TOMORROW IS FOUNDER'S DAY-HAPPY BIRTHDAY SMC!! Scauenger Hunt starts tomorrow at 6:00 in Haggar Gameroom-sign-ups today at SAGA during lunch & dinner 
@fl.(Jj)@ if(Jj)&ftJIPJ&! r! Dave and Troy from 9-11 in the Haggar Parlor tomorrow-free cake and great music!! Sophomores: tickets on saleM-Fin dorm lobbies-$10.00 Freshmen: tickets on sale M,T, & Th in dorm lobbies-$13.00 Both dances this Friday the 13th!!!· 
------~-------~--......,.----------~---­
Monday, October 9, 1989

page 4 The Observer 
Hungary 
continued from page 1 
that the congress had managed 
to bury the repressive Leninist 
past and create a party in the 
Westnrn democratic tradition. 
Asked if the Hungarian So­
cialist Party was truly new, he 
told reporters Sunday: "I don't 
see the signs of that, although I 
honestly would have welcomed 
it." 
Since the congress opened 
Friday, radical reformers have insisted that orthodox Com­munists would have no place in the new party. 
But members of the old party are also members of the new party -at lnast temporarily. "I am not convinced that the so­called cleansing (of ranks) that is necessary actually has hap­pened," Medgyessy said. 
Premier Miklos Nemeth, a key reformer, told the congress that any new party would have no room for "those with blood on their hands" from past Communist excesses. 
Membership is not automati­cally transferable. The position paper said those wanting to join the new party would first have to state their intentions in writing. 
But drastic language that would have barred Communist conservatives was watered down out of fears the majority would reject the document. The paper stated instead that the new party wants to "call in its ranks all those who agree with its platform, agree with its ground rules." 
Such ambiguity has resulted in the unusual development of former Politburo member Janos Berecz -among the most vehement opponents of reform -asking to join the new party Saturday, just hours after he declared himself ready to be "tied to the stake" for his Communist beliefs. 
Nyers, whose moderate views make him the most acceptable candidate for the post of party president, told Berecz he was welcome. It was a graphic demonstration of the new party's difficulties in breaking with the past. 
Berecz later confounded con­ference participants by declar­ing he wanted the issue of a new party put to the vote among all members of the old party. He said in the mean­while, he would remain a mem­ber of the old party. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Tickets available atlhe door or 1n advance atlalonune Student Center Box OHoce MasterCard and Vosa Orders 239-7442 
Hard-liners in Hungary say that
Evan 
1987 
Communist Party not gone yet
Gallup 


Associated Press 
Report 
Survey respondents were asked to rate eight 
BUDAPEST, Hungary ­
evangelists on a t 0-point scale, on which the top 
Hard-line opponents of reform 
five positions indicated "favorable" opinions and 
said Sunday that the national
the bottom five, "unfavorable." 
Communist Party, dissolved by
0 1980 Favorable • 1987 Favorable 
delegates to a party congress, still exists and its fate must be decided by its entire member­ship. 
Congress delegates on Satur­day voted to dissolve the party, saying "its history .. . has ended." The Communist Party, officially called the Hungarian Socialist Workers Party, is to be replaced by the Hungarian Socialist Party, according to the congress resolution. Heform leaders said the new party would be similar to Western European socialist parties. 
It was the first time in the Soviet bloc that the leadership of a Communist Party has de­cided to dissolve the organiza­tion. The move represents an attempt to draw support for multiparty national elections scheduled for June at the latest. 
But a ranking Communist conservative defied his party's decision. Former Politburo member Janos Berecz said Sunday the old party remains in 
existence until its entire rank­
and-file decides on its fate. 
Berecz, ousted from the party Politburo by reformers several months ago, said, "The mem­bership still has to decide, and if the majority or a large sec­tion of the membership decides that they are members of the HungariaQ Socialist Workers Party, then I am with them." 
He spoke in an interview on state television and did not elaborate. 
Another conservative, Hobert Ribanszki, said he would orga­nize a plebiscite among the 720,000 members of the old party to allow them to deelare their party affiliation. 
"The decision made yesterday was a great step backward in the history of the Hungarian left-wing movement," said Hib­anszki. "It's not the Leninist principles that were wrong but the way they were imple­mented." 
The hard-line Janos Kadar Society, named for Hungary's former leader, announced plans to found a new Communist Party. Politburo member Janos Barabas suggested the courts may have to decide. 
Janos Barabas, a reform member of the Politburo, was asked if the new Socialist Party could be considered the legal successor to the Communist Party and he said the courts may have to decide. 
Some legal experts at the congress told reporters the new party was the legal successor because it was'a child of the congress -the old party's most authoritative body. 
The new party has invited into its ranks all members of the old party who agree with its principles. The new party's platform backs parliamentary democracy with competing par­ties and components of private ownership in the national econ­omy. 
Vice Premier Peter Medgyessy urged the successors of the dis­solvnd Communist Party to stop interfering in government busi­ness as Hungary prepares for its first free elections in 41 years. 
Medgyessy told reporters he would like to see a "government of experts" run the country until the elections. 


Press here for agreat
data processing career. 
The right time. The right place. Blue Chip. Green light. State data processing equipment. You'll State Farm is hiring. Farm is one of America's leading go as far and as fast as you can. 
If you're a senior with a data insurance companies. Through You couldn't have a more solid processing, computer science or innovative marketing and a proud base to build a career on. math background, there may be service tradition it has become 
Contact your Placement a very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and Director. Our recruiter will waiting for you in one of the homeowner's insurer, and one of be on campus 10-12-89 largest corporate data proces~-the top life insurance companies 
ing facilities in the country. in the country. Or write Ron Prewitt, Assistant 
· 1 Director, Home Office Personnel
There are actuana and audit-You'll receive expert training. . ing jobs open too. You'll work on state-of-the-rt RelaUo_ns, One ~ta~e Farm Plaza,
' a Bloomington, Illinois 61701. STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES. Home Offices: Bloomington. Illinois. An Equal Opportunity Employer 

----------------~--------~-----------~--------~------------....., 
Monday, October 9, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Riots 
continued from page 1 
l)emocratic Party. The party's charter was signed by 43 people in Schwante, near Berlin. 
The group's charter calls for a "rigorous democratization of state and society" and says the party wants to "work with all democratic initiatives, groups and people in our land." Lead­ers of the group indicated they would not immediately apply for the party to be legalized. 
A prominent reform group, Neues Forum or New Forum, was recently banned by the communist government. New Forum says it has grown from its original 30 members to more than 11 ,ClOO. 
An estimated 15,000 people joined in pro-reform demon­strations over the weekend in East Bnrlin. Leipzig, Dresden, Potsdam, Jena and Plauen, ac­cording to West German televi­sion and witness accounts. 
The Hessischer Rundfunk ra­
dio station in Frankfurt, West 
Germany, said 700 protesters 
had been arrested in East Ber­
lin alone. although witnesses 
said the number could be more 
than 1 ,000. 
Lutheran church leaders 
called for the release of the de­
tainees and appealed for calm. 
ARD. a West German televi­
sion network. showed television 
footage of helmeted East Ger­
man police in riot gear charg­
ing demonstrators in the his­
toric city of Leipzig, hitting 
them with truncheons even 
after the protest had been bro­ken up. 
In East Berlin the official East German news agency called the protesters "troublemakers." 
There were strong indications of support even from those who did not take to the streets. 
Apartment dwellers rushed to their balconies to urge on thou­sands of protesters with sparklers, cheers and applause. In a crowded, smoke-filled bar, a young East Berliner shouted "Happy Birthday police state." 
For three hours early Sunday, AP-Dow Jones reporter Igor Reichlin hid in the apartment of an East German family after he was chased by police when try­ing to cover the protests. The family risked prison sentences by refusing to open the door to the police. 
For the fourth straight day Sunday, East Germany barred Western tourists from entering East Berlin. Tourists were turned away after being told "it is not possible today" with no further explanation. 
The exodus of tens of thou­sands of East Germans via Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Poland deeply embarrassed East Berlin's leadership during the weekend anniversary cele­brations. 
More than 48,000 East Ger­mans have fled to West Ger­many since Sept. 11, when Hungary defied its Warsaw Pact ally and opened its western border. From early Saturday until early Sunday, 941 East Germans reached West Germany, all via Hungary, West German officials said. 
Bette Davis, dead at 81, is lauded 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Bette Davis was remembered as the ideal motion picture actress, a pow­erfully talented perfectionist who overcame Hollywood's glamour fixation to become one of its unfading stars. 
Miss Davis, a two-time Academy Award winner, died Friday at the American Hospi­tal in Paris after a long fight with cancer. She was 81. 
"She was a beacon of light for all of us who were starting out," said Angela Lansbury, who said she idolized the movie star as a child in England. She appeared with Miss Davis in the 1982 television mini-series "Little Gloria -Happy at Last." 
"She once said to me, 'The thing about us, we're character actresses.' She wasn't a great beauty, and she knew that," Miss Lansbury said from her home in Los Angeles. "She was a tremendous role model for me. She simply encouraged my aspirations as also not (being) a great beauty." 
"I admired her dogged atten­tion to keep going .... She never, never gave up, to the very end." 
A perfectionist, Miss Davis loathed sloppy work, Miss Lansbury said. 
"Her great problem was, that she didn't feel that people were professional enough. Young ac­tors .wouldn't get to the set on time. She was professional. ... She didn't throw fits, she didn't keep people waiting. . . . She. 
gained attention through her work." 
''I'm sorry that her ilk doesn't come along anymore," said Ernest Borgnine, who worked with Miss Davis on two films, including "The Catered Affair" in 1956. "She wanted perfection, but she was never hard." 
"Bette Davis was surely one of the most significant women to shape American film, both through her talents as an ac­tress and her spirited charac­ter," Charlton Heston said from his home in Los Angeles. 
"She seemed to me to be an ideal motion picture actress," said James Stewart, who costarred with Miss Davis in the 1983 cable-TV film "Right of Way." 
College students ignorant, survey shows 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-A Columbus Day poll suggests one-fourth of American college seniors either never heard or do not remem­ber the childhood ditty: "In 1492, Columbus sailed the ocean blue." 
In addition to finding that one in four do not know Christopher Columbus made his famous landing in the Western Hemisphere prior to the year 1500, the Gallup Poll suggests considerable ignorance of other basic facts about history and literature. 
Nearly 60 percent did not know the Korean War started when Harry Truman was presi­dent, 58 percent did not know that William Shakespeare wrote "The Tempest" and nearly a quarter believed a fa­mous saying from Karl Marx is part of the U.S. Constitution. 
"If the students' answers were to be graded, more than half of those tested would have failed," concluded the survey, which was conducted for the National Endowment for the Humanities. 
Armed with the survey re­sults, NEH Chairman Lynne Ch­eney called Sunday for colleges and universities to revise their curricula so undergraduates study "essential areas of knowledge." 
In a booklet titled "50 Hours," she outlined a sug­gested core curriculum for col­lege students. 
Here are some of the Gallup Poll highlights: 
-24 percent of the college seniors surveyed thought Columbus landed in the Western Hemisphere some time after 1500. 
-42 percent could not place the Civil War in the correct half century. 
-58 percent did not know that Shakespeare was the au­thor of "The Tempest," but 95 percent knew that Mark Twain wrote "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn." 
-58 percent did not know Truman was president when the Korean War began. Four­teen percent thought it started when John Kennedy was presi­dent. 
-55 percent could not iden­tify the "Magna Carta." 
-23 percent believed that Marx's phrase, "From each ac­cording to his ability, to each according to his need," is part of the U.S. Constitution. 
UDEN"f 
Monday, October 9 at 7:00 pm .in t~e ~ibrary A:uditorium 4b Showing of ''The Last Emperor" With a hiStoncal perspective by ~.( Mia Wang Bassham, former student and educator in China, now a Chinese History teacher at D A IUSB. 
Tuesday, October 10 at 8:00 pm in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center Manifestation of Confuciunism & Literature in Chinese Culture Professor Gao Xiang will speak on Confuciunism. Professor Xiang is a Di_stinguished Fa~ulty Fell_ow of the Kellogg Institute and secretary general of the Chinese Center for Tinrd World Studies of Chma. Gu Wenjuian, senior editor of the Chinese Central Television and member of the Chinese Writers' Union, will speak on Chinese Literature. 
Wednesday, October 11 at 7:00 pm in the Montgomery Room of the LaFortune Student Center The Last Ten Years of Political Reform in China Dr. Peter J. Moody will speak on the "Failure of Political Reform". Dr. Moody is a Professor of the Government and International Studies Department at Notre Dame. Professor Kwan S. Kim will speak on the "Economic Reform in China: Which Way Now?" Professor Kim, a development economist, is a professor of economics and Faculty Fellow of the Kellogg Institute at Notre Dame. 
Thursday, October 12 at 8:00 pm in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium Tiananmen Square and the Future Prodemocracy Movement Su Shaozhi, currently a professor at the Bradley Institute for Democratic and Public vallues at Marquet U. is popular as a theorist of political reform in China. Li Lu, now a student at Columbia U ., was a student leader of the prodemocracy movement in Beijing. Since June 4th, Mr. Lu has been listed as 
"wanted" by the Chinese government. *This event is co-sponsored with The Institute for International Peace Studies & The Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government 
Friday, October 13 at 6:30 pm in the Blue Room at North Dining Hall 
Chinese Meal and Father Hesburgh's Reflections on China Father Theodore Hesburgh will speak about his experiences with US-Chinese Relations. *Attendance at this function is limited to 50 persons. Reservations for the dinner must be obtained from the Student Government Secretary on the 2nd Floor of the LaFortune Student Center. Those without a meal plan should prepare to pay $6.50 at the door. 
~----~--~------------­
----~---~ ----~ -­
Business 
page 6 Monday, October 9, 1989 
Wall Street's antidote, slow, steady growth 
Against this daunting back­
Associated Press 
drop, stocks got an unexpected 
boost as October 1989 began 
NEW YOHK -Hesearchers on from talk that the Federal Re­Wall Street appear to have hit serve might find reason before upon a promising antidote for long to consider relaxing its the chills of disastrous Octo­credit policy further. bers past. Since midyear interest rates 
The medicine in question had been climbing as investors combines hopes for falling in­concluded that the Fed had less terest rates, a strong dollar and less reason to worry about and steady doses of slow, but a recession, and thus might sustainable economic growth. shift back toward a restrictive, 
So far it seems to be working inflation-fighting strategy. wonders, lifting stock prices to Hut statistics on wholesale record highs at a time when and consumer prices showed no Wall Streeters have plenty of signs of mounting inflationary seasonal memories to dampen pressures as the economy kept their spirits. chugging along. 
For those who like to keep And heading into the last traek of such things, this quarter of the year, the suspi­month marks the sneond an­cion began to spread that the niversary of the "market melt­Fed might find more maneuver­down" of 19H7. ing room to stimulate the econ­
Ten years ago, tlwre was the omy without taking any big in­October Massacre of 1979, flationary risks. when stock prices plunged amid Those feelings were rein­fears of a credit crunch forced on Friday, when the La­(echoing a similar selloff in Oc­bor Department reported that tobnr 197H). the civilian unemployment rate 
And 60 years back lingers the rose a tenth of a percentage specter of the Grnat Crash of point in September to 5.3 per­1929. cent. 
Growth up in service sector 
Associated Press "Service is very labor-in-faeturer in Denrlield, Ill. tensive, so it's sucking up all Baxter added 2,400 jobs in 
NEW YORK -IBM is offer­the workers," said John 1988, and Fenton said the ing early retirement to 1,000 Hekman, a senior economist payroll continues to grow of its employees, Borden's at the Claremont Economics this year. Hnvenue grew 10 plan to reorganize its dairy Institute· in Claremont, Calif. percent last ye<J.r, and sales operations will cost 7000 In September alone, when wen~ up significantly so far jobs, and the megabuyout of the loss of 103,000 manufae-this year. he said. RJR Nabisco will result in turing jobs inched the more than 1,600 layoffs. unemployment rate up 0.1 Orders to the 6,000 to 
Business optimism appears percent to 5.3 percent, ser­7,000 hospitals Baxter 
to be dimming and manufac­vice industries added supplies are increasing as an turers are becoming more 317,000 jobs. A eloser look, aging population requires aggressive in cutting costs however, shows teachers re­more medical eare. But the and people. But, a relatively turning to their elassrooms fastest-growing area of new steady unemployment rate -and the ending of a tele­business for Baxter lies in the sale of "alternate-site"
which has fluctuated be­phone workers strike were tween 5.1 percent and 5.3 responsible for much of the products, like intravenous 
percent since April -means job increase. solutions and dialysis items somebody is hiring. usnd at home and in nursing The question is who? But economists point to homes. Overall outpatient Steven Haugen, an health care providers, tem­earn is growing at the rate 
economist with the Bureau porary help agencies, hotels of about 20 pPreent annu­of Labor Statistics, says job and the entertainment indus­ally, said ll<~kman. growth is concentrated in try as being among the most the service-sector, that consistent "net adders" of On the tnmporary lwlp broad. amorphous category employees. scene. Manpow1~r Ine. Chief covering everything from Executive Mitchell Fromstein data processing to theme The health care industry is eharaet1~riznd growth as parks to the neighborhood growing at just under 10 "meteoric" ovnr the last five beauty parlor. Experts say percent a year, said Geoffrey years. Since tlw beginning of' this sector is creating up­Fenton, a spokesman for this year. Fromstein said wards uf 1.5 million jobs a Baxter International. a ma­Manpower's pnrmatwnt staff year. jor medical supplies manu-has increased by 1,000 . 
McDonald's sued by singer's son, 
Foreign Takeovers 
SmithKiine and Beacham I
judge to rule on sound alike ad 
$16 billion merger, 1989 
Group PLC (Britain) 

ter's voice and gestures resem­Also named as a defendant is 
Standard Oil and British Petroleum
Associated Press 
$7.9 billion merger, 19871
ble those of Darin, who died in the advertising agency of Davis, 
(Britain) 

1973 at age 37 of heart prob­Ball and Colombatto in Los An­
Federated Dept. Stores, $6.6 billion, 19881
SANTA MONICA, Calif. -The lems. geles. 
Purchased by Campeau (Canada) 
!
son of the late singer Bobby There was no immediate 
Shell Oil and Royal Dutch-Shell Group $5.7 billion merger, 19851
Darin is suing McDonald's The suit was filed on behalf comment from the agency or 
(Britain-Netherlands)

Corp. for more than $10 mil­of Dodd Darin -the singer's McDonald's Corp. in Oak 
Pillsbury, purchased by Grand
lion, alleging the restaurant son and only heir -and the Brook, Ill. Calls to both were 
$5.68 billion, 19891Metropolitan PLC (Britain), 
chain copied his father's sing­Bobby Darin Testamentary not answered during the week­ing style in the "Mac Tonight" Trust. end and there was no response 
Farmers Insurance Group, purchased by Batus $5.2 billion, 19881Inc. (Britain)
commercials. to a message left on an answer­
The suit, liled last week in Darin's upbeat version of ing machine at McDonald's. 
Columbia Pictures Entertainment, purchased $3.4 billion! 
Los Angeles County Superior "Mack the Knife," a song from 
i:)y Sony (Japan), (pending) 
I
Court, alleges that the televi­the 1928 German musical "The In a similar case, a federal 
Firestone Tire & Rubber, purchased by $2.65 billion, 1988
sion ads infringe on rights to Threepenny Opera," sold 2 mil­appeals court ruled that singer 
Bridgestone (Japan) 

Darin's 1959 hit version of the lion copies and won Darin two Bette Midler had the right to 
Inter Continental Hotels, purchased by Seibu 
$2.27 billion, 1988song "Mack the Knife." 1960 Grammy awards. sue the Ford Motor Co. over its 
Saison (Japan)

The commercials feature a alleged use of "sound-alike" aa 
I
CBS Records, purchased by Sony (Japan) 
tuxedoed man with a smiling The suit seeks an injunction campaign of one of her record­
$2 billion, 1988 
quarter-moon head, seated at a halting the McDonald's com­ings. The appeals court rein­piano and belting out the ham­mercials, $100,000 in general stated the suit, which a lower 
CIT Group, purchased burger jingle. damages and $10 million in court had thrown out. The suit .._b=--=D=a,_l·l=-=c.:..:h.::..iK:...::a=n:..:Aol,_,o'--'-=J=a~.!.U..."""-"'==-u-~--------~~2~_b_i_lli~n The suit alleges the charac-punitive damages. has yet to come to trial. 
APr Hernandez 
Consumers wage war on mail advertisers 
Look out, you junk mailers of Mrs. R.L.L., of Livermore, on. It is a very satisfying to keep first-elass rates down. who slyly pretend to know us Calif., whose husband has Louis Rukeyser mail stuff to them." Fertilizer! It clogs the sys­better than you do. Beware, been gone even longer-since While an overwhelming tem... Tho issuance of a 
overly chummy commercial Dec. 6, 1963, " before com­majority of those responding third-class mailing permit telephoners who think it's puters became as popular as Tribune Media Services expressed indignation at the should be conditional upon just dandy to disturb us at typewriters." fake palsy-walsy stuff they the applicant's agreement to home during our dinner Three years ago, she The ones that enclose paid get from these perpetually pay return postage on each hour. America is getting began to receive " all kinds return envelopes, I mail back rented and re-rented mailing and every piece marked ready to strike baek. of mail" addressed to him. " to them. But what a waste! lists, S.H., of Deerfield, Ill., 'HEFUSED' by the ad­
That's my conclusion after It still comes," she confided, No wonder our delivery of said he was "kind of sick of dressee. Bulk mailers would, wading through a huge pile " but not as much, because I mail is so delayed." hearing everyone gripe in short order, be thinning of (absolutely first-class) used a few stamps to mail A number of correspon­about 'junk mail.' You can their mailing lists." mail in response to my re­them back with the the dents reacted joyfully to an have your name cleared off' cent eolumns criticizing the notation: "Please address Arizona reader's method of many lists through the Finally, though. listen to use of form letters from (my husband's) mail to his retaliation: ''I'm placing a Direct Marketing M.O., of Hoyal Oak, Mich., celebrities, at-home phoners current address-Mayfield copy of your commentary in Association, headquartered who has her own unique so­from people who use our Cemetery." each of the postage-paid en­in New York." lution for dealing with those first names even though they Across the country, in velopes received in most of It's certainly true that annoying telemarketers who can't pronounce our last, Cleveland, Ohio, Mrs. P.B. the mass-produced mailings. many people enjoy shopping ring even unlisted telephones and other distasteful out­wrote that her husband died If more 'Occupants,' by mail-! do it myself ocea­just when you're trying to pourings of fax-head phoni­fully 33 years ago, but seem 'Addressees' or named indi­sionally-but, as so many of' ndax. Some people, of ness. No other subject this to get more mail now than viduals would return the letters indicate, comput­eourse, just hang up. but she year has produced so mueh he did then. She enclosed one postage-paid envelopes mi­ers can be difficult, and per­likes to say: "I get to talk to reader reaction. bizarre example from a nus any donation or com­sistent, it seems particularly you first, and then I'll listen 
Among the things I discov­"professional astrologer" mitment-but with a mes­irritating. And it apparently to you. Now. here's what's ernd was that the story I assuring him that he was sage such as you provided­does make things back up at on my mind today ... " told, of an Iowa woman about to get "a second this scourge might subside." the post ofl1ce, as was re­whose father died 20 years chance at life" and was " M.C.G.Jr., of Winston­counted by D.L.H., of Wnst Who knows? We may ago but still gets solicita­about to enter that rare and Salem, N.C., has another Linn, Ore., a former postal teach mannerless marketers tions praising his excellent wonderful period call the twist: "Each evening I stuff employee: some better business recent crndit rneord, is ap­'golden wave."' the junk mailed to :ne by 'A' "The postal service claims practices, after all. llnllo'! parnntly not unusual. Con­She does her best to stop into the prepaid envelope of third-class mail not only ©1989 Tribune Media Ser­sider, for examplo, the caso sueh mailings, she reports: " 'B' , and vice-versa, and so pays its way, but helps to l'ices 
The Observer page 7 


Prof. Mary Connolly of the Math/Camp. Science department of St. Mary's talks to prospective students on "Fall Day" when high school students had the chance to check out St. Mary's. 
Anti-hazing campaign gains ground 
Associated Press 
An anti-hazing campaign aimed at countering the image of Greek rows as gin-soaked "Animal Houses" appears to be gaining this fall on campuses from the University of Southern California to Dartmouth. 
Worried by their image, as well as the possibility of law­suits, fraternities around the country are moving to eliminate hazing. Some want to eliminate pledging, the practice of having a period between the recruit­ment of a member and his for­mal initiation when hazing is most likely. 
In August. two of the nation's largest fraternities, Tau Kappa Epsilon and Zeta Beta Tau, de­cided that the most effective way to end hazing was to ban pledging altogether in their chapters. 
Kappa Delta Rho also ap­proved a long-range plan that 
KECK'S KLEAR WATER COMPANY 
-1{3. 
'~ JL~'i 
l~r( 
~ 
Bottled Spring Water Covler Rental Free Delivery 
For Same Day Service Call 
674-9992 
before 10:00 AM Monday through Friday 
includes a move to no pledging by 1995. Phi Sigma Kappa amended its constitution to al­low for experimentation with non-pledge programs. Alpha Epsilon Pi introduced new membership education pro­grams. 
The National Interfraternity Council, which represents fra­ternities at 900 college cam­puses, weighed in with an anti­hazing campaign of its own in September, stressing that the image of fraternities every­where was suffering from haz­ing incidents that harmed pledges physically or psychologically. 
"It's not a concern for de­creasing membership," said Jonathan Brant, executive di­rector of the Indianapolis­based council. "We're just re­ally fed up with the perception that silly and dangerous things occur on the college campus, and fraternities are sometimes associated with those things." 
"What has empowered us in making our case to fraternities is that we are painfully aware that the stakes have been raised in legal liability," Brant said. 
Fraternity brothers on many campuses still resist the idea of ditching the time-honored prac­tice of putting new members through physical or mental ordeals before their formal ini­tiation, despite excesses that 
•••••••••••••have led to 40 deaths and hun­
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
FORMUlATE YOUR FUTURE 
Leadership Elll:eUence Starts Here IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!. 

dreds of injuries in the last decade nationwide. 
"I really don't think you can form any sort of loyalty to a house without pledging," said Steve Colafella, a sophomore initiated last month into Alpha Sigma Phi at Penn State University. 
"The oneness that you show with the brotherhood, the thing you have in common, is the tri­als and tribulations that got you there." 
Some 400,000 undergraduate men and 250,000 undergradu­ate women belong to Greek or­ganizations in the United States and Canada. After a slump in membership from 1965 through the 1970s, Greek or­ganizations have grown steadily over the last decade. 
Hazing has continued at some campuses this fall, including one notorious case at the University of Mississippi, where Beta Theta Pi pledges were abandoned bound and naked last month on the campus of Rust College, a predominantly black school, with "KKK" and a racist epithet painted on their chests. 
But many fraternities are looking for better ways to initi­ate members. 
At USC, for example, Theta Xi is dropping pledging this fall and will instead require candi­dates to complete educational programs to acquaint them with active members and the mores of the house. 
Class 
continued from page 1 0 
HiAg! 
USC TIX NEEDED!!! 4 GA'S AND 2 STUD. CALL SHARON 238-5246 
SENIORS.........................SENIORS 
* MANDA TORY* 
SENIOR CLASS TRIP MEETING for all those going to Cancun. WEDNESDAY,OCTOBER11 
From 6:30 to 7:30 in THEODORES. 
Why Hello Phil Kraker! Thanks for a great weekend! I hope we can stage a repeat performance next weekend!!! 
kJve, Molly 
NEED 1 or 3 USC GA's. HAVE 2 PITI and 1 SMU STUD. For SALE Call WENDY at 2798 
Fire bomb kills seven on bus in Colombia 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA, Colombia Another outbreak of violence struck this country at war with drug lords Sunday as fire blamed on a bomb killed seven people on a bus and the body of an army secretary was found riddled with bullets. 
There were no immediate claims of responsibility, but the attacks came in the midst of a 7 -week-old war that drug traf­fickers and government offi­cials have been waging. 
Also Sunday, there were ac­cusations and denials over alle­gations that President Virgilio Barco's government explored possibilities of a truce with the Medellin drug cartel. 
The driver of the bus in Bogota, Luis Pataquiva, told the RCN radio network that a man and a woman apparently left a bomb in the rear that ex­ploded moments after they got off. 
Police said seven people were killed and seven injured, but lo­cal news reports said seven were killed and eight injured. 
"Apparently the fire was caused by an incendiary bomb," a national police spokeswoman said on condition of anonymity. She did not elaborate. 
Radio station Caracol re­ported that a policeman at the scene said the fire apparently started in a five-gallon plastic container of gasoline in the back of the bus. 
Police said they found the body of Nury de Vasquez, pri­vate secretary of the comman­der of the Fourth Army Brigade, shot 18 times. 
Unidentified men dragged her from a taxi in Medellin on Friday and took her with them in their car, police said. 
Police said they found her body next to a car near the town of Marinilla about 8 miles northwest of Medellin. 
Authorities said they had no motive in the crime, but the Fourth Army Brigade has been active in confiscating property :>f suspected drug traffickers. 
Before Sunday's reports of violence, 148 bombings and other attacks blamed on drug traffickers killed at least 10 people and wounded 164 since Aug. 19, when the traffickers declared war on the govern­ment. 
The government declared an anti-drug crackdown Aug. 18, the same day leading presiden­tial hopeful Sen. Luis Galan was assassinated. 
Joaquin Vallejo, a former in­terior minister, said in reports published Sunday that he acted as a go-between in truce nego­tiations between the Medellin cocaine cartel and the govern­ment before the anti-drug crackdown began. 

Congress thinking of pay raise, but quietly 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -While House leaders don't like to publicly use the words "pay raise," they are quietly shaping a scenario under which Congress can vote to increase its pay with bipartisan accord and the blessing of President Bush. 
Still smarting from the politi­cal fiasco last February under which Congress was forced by public outrage to reject a 51 percent raise, House leaders have agreed on a set of condi­tions for the next attempt to raise lawmakers' salaries. 
Foremost among them were that there will be a recorded vote and that the increase in pay will be coupled with a phasing out of speaking fees members of Congress receive from interest groups. 
The agreement, as outlined by a Democratic leadership source who insisted on anonymity, also includes a demand for active White House support and a commitment from party orga­nizations to refrain from using the pay vote as a political issue. Of course, there is no way indi­vidual challengers to members of the House and Senate can be forced to refrain from making a vote for a pay raise a political issue. 
Rank-and-file lawmakers earn $89,500, and leaders get more. Any pay plan would likely also include raises for federal judges and top federal execu­tives who also came out losers when the last pay raise was re­jected. 
Congressional leaders in both houses have publicly kept mum about their plans for the politi­cally explosive issue. 
"We seldom whisper the words (pay raise), except in closets, cloakrooms and bath­rooms," said a House Republican leadership source, speaking only on condition he not be named. 
But behind the scenes, there is movement. 

Dear Toe-
Welcome Home !W e love you. And, Yes we believe in Angels LN &KN 
Need 3 Usc tix or 2 Pitt. GA's Tim3000 
10 DAYS 'TIL STURM, GET READY!! 
70271: 
CONGRATULATIONS ON PUTIING UP WITH ME FOR A WHOLE YEAR-PRETTY IMPRESSIVE. I KIND OF LIKE YOU BUT DON'T MESS WITH ME. 
OSCAR 
NEEDED: RIDE FOR 2 TO BUFFALO AREA AFTER USC GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL KEITH AT X1045. 
McD-Happy Monday! 
Hi Gorgeous 14 more days 
October Break 

. . Ride needed to Detroit Area for ADOPTION: Lovmg .. professional October Break. Will share gas. couple 1n M1dwest w1shes to adopt Want to leave after USC game and newborn. We offer stable and return anytime after Thursdav. 
happy home, fmanc1al secunty, Please call welcoming extended family. Matt @x1650 PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 ---------------­after 6:30pm weekdays, anytime weekends.Attorney involved. 
ODE TO THE GIRLS IN THE ANNEX: 

HELP Without any panties 
1DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE you'll soon find out TO CINCINNATI FOR THE WEEK-Your buns will freeze END OF 10/13-15. CALL JIM without any doubt 
AT X4221 Speaking of your rump -------------------------------------you'd better beware 
D.R. Dillon men will jump It's Willy, not Charlie. to get your underwear 
AC. Oh, we never thought we'd have so much fun But it's a war you sought0 if i am to have so much, So the game has begun let me have more! 
ATIENTION SOPHOMORES: Volunteer Volunteer Deadline for volleyball tourney isCenter for the Homeless Wed. Oct 11. Stop by class office 

Sat., Oct 14 
or call 239-5225, x2079, or x2735Evening/Overnight shifts for more information.

Call Diane X4986 
Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, October 9, 1989 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor ...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor .......... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor. . ...... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Alison Cocks Accent Editor ........................... John Blasi Systems Mgr ....... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor.. . ........................ Eric Bailey OTS Director... . ............ Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor .............. Christine Gill Controller ............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 

LETTERS 

Letter from China last word before massacre 
tiations, students from several leading universities in lkijing organized a hunger strike in Tiananmen Squarn. But the government still refused to an­swer students' demands. Ac­cording to reports concerning early yesterday (May 17). more than one thousand students on the hunger strike passed out. Ambulances kept raeing in and out of Tiananmen Square where the seeJH~ has beconw both sorrowful and majestic. 

Yesterday afternoon, the city of Beijing witrwss1~d an un­precedented demonstration. It was impossible to count the number of people there. Some reports estimated several mil­lions. In the marching crowds are the workers, high-school students, bank clerks, employ­ees from governmental de­partments and from the prnss.Cheng Cang Zhu. Many senior professors, uni­versity presidents and well­Xiao Tong known writers came out to sup­••• port the students by joining the 
ed with the death of Hu Yao­and their children; an increase student movement as "counter 
demonstration.

May 18, 1989 
bang, the former Party Sec­in educational expenditure and revolutionary upheaval." 
Xiao Tong and Xiao Wei, 
retary General. Hu's upright­improving treatment of intel­In response, over one hun­
The scene was so tremendous 

ness and lack of corruption lectuals. dred thousand students from 
that what I have told you here

IIi, how are you? I got your 
heightened people's awareness all the universities in Beijing 
is just a sketch. Meanwhile,

letter three or four days ago. 
of the rampant corruption and The petitions movement was held a demonstration on April 
similar demonstrations also

For these several days, the 
dishonesty among some gov­launched April 19 and lasted 29. They broke through the erupted in Shanghei, Nanjing,
whole city of Beijing has been 
ernment leaders. until April 22. Some hundred blockade set up by the armed 
Ginonpzhon, Wuhau and other

in a state of overflowing 
Such awareness heated up thousand students sat in Tia­police and finally converged in 
major cities in support of the

enthusiasm with people from all 
their feeling of discontent with nanmen Square. Three of their Tiananmen Square demanding 
students. Soon after the student

walks of life venting their indig­
the current policies regarding representatives kneeled for a that the government apologize 
movement started, the 38th

nation at the government for its 
education and intellectuals. long time in front of the Great for its editorial article and to 
Army was brought into the out­

incompetence and corruption. 
Beijing University initiated a Hall trying to hand in the peti­open negotiations. The first 
skirts of Beijing and has sta­

Along Changau Boulevard are 
proposal for petitioning the tion. However, the Prime Min­round of negotiations on April 
tioned there in readiness for a

fluttering flags and surging 
government and seeking nego­ister did not even bother to 29 did not achieve anything. 
crackdown. It is said that the

crowds. The scene is already 
tiations. The petition mainly come out and talk to the stu­Following another massive 
38th Army refused to carry out

bnyond any verbal description. 
asks for evaluation of Hu's dents. So, the Student Associa­demonstration on May 4, the 
the command to suppress the

In the past few days, I have 
merits and mistakes; restora­tion of Colleges and Universi government agreed to the stu­
students. I hope that there will

gone to Tiananmen square ev­
tion of the good reputations of ties in Beijing decided to walk dents' elements for negotia­
have been some satisfactory

ery day to show my support and 
those persecuted in previous out of classes city-wide starting tion, but didn't say anything 
outcomes by the time you see

to join the demonstration. 
political campaigns; freedom of on April 24. The insensible more about the specific time 
this letter. I will keep you post­

Though I felt exhausted, my 
speech and the press; reveal­government ordered its daily and arrangement for the talks. 
ed of any new developments.

conscience told me that as a 
ing the personal properties and newspaper to publish an edito­To press the government for 
Good luck, 

Chinese I must go. 
incomes of government leaders rial article lashing out at the earlier and more sincere nego-
Xian Ming

The student movement start-
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
71-IE [)RJ.JG CNFORCEM/3/VT APMIN-
17T/?ATIONl7J-1!3f:8.!..' 7H8NW 
Y0R1< ffJ~IC& f?f3PAR:TM&NT! THe /,(JH/TC H{)()S8 PRfJP MA7T&R I 
6(){1)8VtN!N6, I'M RfJlAN{) HW­teY, AN/J 7H~ ARe 8UTA ff:IAJ OP 7H8 PLAY8/?!3 YCXJiL-513& 
70NI6HTON ABC. N8WS' 
'3PCC.!A~ 8/J/T/ON OF "I AM ~,JJ'fe!" I 
'There are very few people left who really sum up the mo­tion picture industry, who had 
that star quality. It was really rare. She had extraordinary energy; she was a genius.' 
Vincent Price, 

on the late Bette Davis 

Accent
Monday, October 9, 1989 page 9 
NBC COMMITS SIN WITH 
' 
' 

The problem lies in the fact that there's nothing believable or religious about Beacham's portrayal of Sister Kate. 

he hills may be alive with the sound of music, but the orphanage is alive with 
the sound of sarcasm. Just as the Von 
Trapp family had seven children, the 
orphanage has seven orphans; howev­
er, the similarities end there. Sister 
Kate climbs every mountain and fords 
every stream, but the "dream" she 
finds is a nightmare. 
From the creators of "Mr. Belvedere," "Sister Kate" airs on NBC Sundays at 7 p.m. Stephanie Beacham, last seen in her role in"Dynasty," stars as Sister Kate, a Rambo of a nun, who reluctantly accepts a job as head of an orphanage. It's not exactly the job she had in mind when she took her vows. She wanted to work on an ar­chaeological dig. "Sifting through the bones of ancient skeletons ... is my preferred way of deal­ing with pnople," says the 20th century nun. 
One episode features the love life of April (Erin Heed), one of the orphans. In this episode a new friend asks April for a date. Embarrassed by her present living situation, April doesn't tell her date she's an orphan. Together, the team of seven turn the orphanage into the perfect home. They even pay two bums to play April's parents. All gons smoothly until Sister Kate arrives. 
April tells her acquaintance that Kate is her housekeepm. "We let her dress up as a nun on Sundays," says April. Sister Kate bites the forked tongue and plays along with the scenario, which gradually turns disastrous. April's date begins to force himself upon her. Luckily, Sister Kate ap­pears carrying a golf club to save the day. ''I'm hnre to up your handicap," she says. 
As one might have guessed. there are quite a few "Sound of Music" puns in the show. The or­phans kid Kate about not carrying a guitar or a tune. She replies that she doesn't necessarily like children either. In another scene, Neville (Joel Robinson), another orphan tries to sneak out of the house by hiding behind a picture of the Pope. Kate discovers him and makes the child return the painting saying, "The Holy Father travels 

JOE BUCOLO 
To Be Continued... 
enough as it is." 
The problem with the show is that it has as much flair as Kate's habit. The jokes, of which there are very few, are dry and dull. In addition, the situations are predictable and uninteresting. The writers must have taken vows of triteness. 
Also, Kate is far from a charismatic character. The fog through which Kate travels to the or­phanage provides more energy and enthusiasm than Kate ever will. She seems to arrive in a scene to correct all its problems with one sarcas­tic comment and leave as if she has other things to do. Maybe she's having the hem on her habit raised. Better yet, she's in the middle of a Bingo game off camera. 
"Dynasty" fans will be amazed by Beacham's switch of character. Last year, she was Sable Colby, the only woman to come close to Alexis Colby's wickedness. This year, she's a nun. Only in America. It's a bigger change of character than that which occurs when Clark Kent enters a phone booth. The problem lies in the fact that there's nothing believable or religious about Beachom's portrayal of Sister Kate, The orphans are obnoxious and she's worse. 
"Sister Kate" is a show unworthy of the time slot once filled by "Family Ties." The fact that none of the NBC commercials for this show con­tain more than a liqe of the program's actual di­alogue indicates the network's faith in the show's quality. Hopefully, NBC will go to confes­sion and rid itself of the terrible sin of this pro­gram. 

Heavy metal concert features 
BRIAN GRUNERT 
accent writer 
I 
t seems that there are three types of heavy metal bands in the musical world these days. 
First, there are those who rely on advanced musical skills and knowledge of their instru­ments to provide the punch to their hard rock attack. 
Second, there are the bands whose arsenal is packed with every heavy metal cliche from twirling drumsticks to neon clothes and make-up and sub­stance takes a back seat to style. 
Lastly, there are heavy metal bands that enjoy cramming their music so far down your throat that substance and style don't even enter the picture. 
Last night, the crowd at South Bend's Morris Civic Auditorium were treated to a sampling of each of these three brands of heavy metal in a concert featur­
intense rock-and-roll 
ing Great White, neuver available. Tesla, and Badlands. "Mista Bones," 
•BADLANDS 
"Mean Mistreater," Badlands, one of and "Lady Redlight" the more recent ad­were a few of the 
•GREAT WHITE
ditions to the heavy heavier songs Great metal kingdom, White performed, but opened the show they only set up the 
•TESLA
with the live version inevitable power bal­
of their self-titled de­but album. Live en­ergy seemed to push the tunes along, and the live show was much more impres­sive than the album itself. 
Guitarist Jake E. Lee's (for­mer guitarist of Ozzy Os­bourne's band) performance was undoubtedly the high point of the opening act. Lee's blues­metal style was most prominent in "Dreams in the Dark" which featured some of the evening's best playing. 
Jake E. Lee carried the mo­mentum of the opening set. His performance overshadowing that of the other band members and even Badlands' material it­self. 
The opening act of the show was concluded by a fiery ver­sion of Badlands latest single, "Highwire," and it was evident that the punch of Badlands per­formance was provided by the guitar wizardry of Jake E. Lee. 
Next up was the "cliched ar­senal" of Great White. Basking in the success of their recent re­lease "...Twice Shy," Great White's show was energized by tunes off of that album and their first major release "Once Bitten." However, the band still felt it necessary to utilize every stereotypical heavy metal rna­lad, "Angel Song," 
which seems to be 
mandatory in all commercial metal shows these days. 
The set was finished with slightly sluggish, but entertain­ing, versions of Great White's two hit singles, "Rock Me" and "Once Bitten, Twice Shy." 
Tesla, touring their recent al­bum release, "Great Radio Con­troversy," was the final act of the evening, and by far the most professional. By incorpo­rating elements from all sects of heavy metal, the band was able to combine great musical talent with a peculiar brand of com­mercial accessibility and a bone 
-
crunching style that was not easily ignored. The first stand­out song of the set was "Hang Tough" which featured harmo­ny leads by Tesla guitarists Frank Hannon and Tommy Ske­och. 
The act progressed at break­neck speed, led by the stage an­tics of singer Jeff Keith until the show climaxed with the high in­tensity tunes, "Cumin' atcha Live" and "Modern Day Cow­boy." The first of the two was highlighted by a 1990's update of "Dueling Banjos" and was finished off with a solo-bit by drummer Troy Luccketta. "Modern Day Cowboy," Tesla's -·-· most successful single to date rocked the show to a close in classic metal form. 
Whether it was through the concentration,substance or style, the common denominator 
·which tied together the perfor­mances of these three different heavy metal bands was a show filled with intense rock and roll. 
.. 
----------------------~-----~--­
page 10 The Observer Monday, October 9, 1989 
lilt~()h...,t•rvPr.hl:t1~1s cld~·~•llu·H· ..... \ !lw.lllt·:-.~ (1ay fron1 10;1 m to .1.'n;' •n .11 :111' Notrt• [)[mw otiiCe. 3to..l Ldi-Or1UJII· .Jill! ···l''l :,> 30 IU 3 p rn at til(• s.unt M.uy :· n!IIU~ Hagg.tr CoiiPQP Centm De.tdlult·~ lpr ·r,·x! ct 1v IHS!;rlrl:ds rs 3 p m All classrtu~ds rnt.'".t bt~ 
~mparti T ht· rlldrge rs 2 cenlf, IJtn . '.n "'"' P'-'' d.rv rncludrng spaces
Classifieds 
I BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY DESIRE: ADOPTION, A LOVING 
l 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
l-NOTICES -219-291-7153 2 GA'S And 1 STUD. TX ALTERNATIVE. 81L ALUM 
Mom and Dad are kind of weird. 
to ANY HOME GAME . PLEASE WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT. PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 
FOR SALE BROTHERS coming for USC Even after seeing the boring CALL MICHELLE at X 2922. LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO 3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 Need STUDENT TICKETS Purdue game, they rarin' to see 
ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN 

~FORYOURBOOKS ~C~O~L~O~R~l~V~H~~~N~T~A~L~S~--~ I'll pay what it takes!! more ND football. Help them out.
HELP! Need 2-4 GA Tickets to the BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF WE BUY AND SELL USED 19-INCH. $70/SEM, $120/YR; 
Call VANCE or KEVIN They'll buy any two G.A.s for any 
USC game. Will pay good price. YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW
# 287-9849 
home game. 

TEXTBOOKS 1!1111111111!111! 25-INCH, $90/SEM. $160/YR 
Call collect (612) 929-5405. IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call #3714 and leave a message.
------------------·------------------FREE DELIVERY 
CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT TYPING COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­
NEED 2 USC tickets Call 502-354-602-482-0905.
HELP!! My Dad, Agamemnon, just 8826 collect. 
JACKIE BOGGS 5959 hates the Trojans. I need HELP!! I need SMU GA's, PLEASE 
684-8793 -------------·------··---------------Going to MIAMI of OHIO? I need a
4GAstoUSC Todd x4358
One way ticket, SB to ALBANY NY 1 or 2 NO/USC tickets wanted. Call ride there the wknd. of Oct. 14. Will Spee-Dee 
Please call Marty at 277-4392 
leaving Fri. 10/14 FOR SALE Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 help with $. Call Sarah at #3484. 
Wordprocessing I need USC tickets. If you have any 
CHEAP Calf x3442. 
nights
237-1949 BIG CASH: to sell, call x.1692. Bust the Help! Need 4 tix to any game 
Trojans.

Have 2 PITT stud. tix call X 1306 NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PITT pre!: USC Call Betsy x2894 
Need three usc tix, student orTyping. Term papers, resumes. 
GAME! CALL VANESSA AT 
etc. on IBM PC. Call Sue's GA's, you'll be compensated NEED 2 or 4 Pitt GA"s
ATTENTION -GOVERNMENT ENGLISH LESSONS. 
X4933.$$$
Secretarial Service at 299-0063. very well. Call Eric x1008 
SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Experienced teacher of English to
Please Call 
Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes. NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY foreigners offers private lessons. 
WORDPROCESSING Mike@ 277-7441 NEED 2 USC GA'S 
Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-HOME GAME ---CALL $8 per hour. 232-6831. 
272-8827 MIKE x3501
602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
PAUL X3406 BELIEVE IT OR NOT, I NEED 2 THE ROAD KNOTT TAKEN 
$$$$$$$$ Notre Dame $$$$$$$ SMU GA's, I'LL EVEN PAY$$ CALIFORNIA DREAM IN: 4 GA tix 
FOR SALE: ROUND-TRIP I NEED ST. TICKS FOR PITT 
$$$ Investment Club Meeting $$$ x2629 for NO-USC. Top$ and Free Buy your KNOTT SYR tix 
TICKET FROM CHICAGO TO -----PAUL X3406-----for 
Tuesday. Oct. 10 at 7:30pm Dinners 4U. 233-9337 Days, 289­Oct.14!
BOSTON FOR FALL BREAK­-----------·-------------------------NEED 2 NAVY GA'S 
Room 122 Hays-Healy 9823 Nights.
$195!!1 WHAT A DEAL!!! CALL NEED NAVY GA'S CALL 271-9830 WILL PAY TOP$COME AND TAKE A HANDS ON Happy 21st MARY O'NEIL BRYAN AT 272-7313 -------------------------------------PLEASE CALL KEVIN x3170
LOOK AT HOW THE STOCK HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED Everyone come buy her a shotNEED 8 USC TIX 
MARKET WORKS ...LEARN HOW TWO USC TICKETS (STUDENT at.. ..... CJ's!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
AMPLIFIER-EV SPKRS. 300 WT. CALL2207
TO MAKE MILLIONS!!! PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT OR GA) BIG BUCKS! CALL LIESL 
HEAD, HSA CABINET. HORN. 
PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT #2791 
GREAT CONDITION. $250. CALL Dad will disown me if I don't get 2 SUE AMANN 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 1 need 4 GA's and 2 Stud's for the 
277-8475. PITT GA's.Call Mike 232-4208 GARY FRANCESCONI 
287-4082. PITT game. Call Mike@ x1714. I need 2 USC GA's. 
MOLLY HYLAND PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT Call Todd x-1717. 

GREG MCCUE MACE NEED USC GA'S 

AD&D player with experience PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT MARGARET MCMAHON WILL PAY $150 FOR PAIR seeks party to join. Call George TOM QUIRK PROTECT YOURSELF MIKE X2451 OR X2473 
TOP$ NEED 1 USC & 1 PITT GA CALL NICK ROSSI 4" purse size w/clip $9 local retail 
ALL HOME GA'S 1655 OR 4224 your price $7 limited supply call I NEED MIAMI TIX FOR ALUM MATT SLAUGHTER 
312-920-9350
(x~~ST/FOUND 
now 234-0515 UNCLE-HE'LL DO ANYTHING! KRISTEN SOSNOWSKI 
NEED GA'S FOR USC AND PITT. 
JON THEISEN CALL 3668 TK

LOST: MINOLTA FREEDOM I NEED USC, MIAMI, & ALL HOME CALL CHRIS AT x1067 BETH WARDHELP!! I HAVE BRAND NEW 
ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN GAME TIX 272-6306 
FUNAI VCR W/REM FOR SALE BIG BUCKS 
IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, Show my brother from Thanks for your advice atPAID $300 ON 9/20 -ASKING PAID FOR ANY 
NOT PAID FOR, VERY, VERY NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY Northwestern what football is Tuesday's London Program$265 OR BEST OFFER INCL. HOMEGA'S
VALUABLE!!! CALL PETE AT I need 5 G.A.'s really like. Sell me your NAVY 
CALL PETE residence meeting. You were2YR WAR &2 CLEANINGS CALL
#1863 ANYTIME! $100.00 or anything you have together ticket. Call Martin at 3343. 
terrific!

1850 AT 277-7582
REWARD. NAME YOUR PRICE!!!! Call Kyle-#3775 Your NAVY GAs, give them to me! 
NEED A RIDE TO MPLS/ST. PAUL

HP-41CX BIG BUCKS 
LOST -Black wallet in NDH Or, at least sell them. I'll pay BIG FOR OCT. BREAK! WILL HELPHandheld expandable PAID FOR ANY 
middle line on Sunday, Oct 1 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ BUCKS to get as many of them as WITH GAS $$ CALL LARA Computer/Calculator HOMEGA'S
I'd just like the wallet back, even if WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS possible. Call1527 ASAP. 
X4526 OR MICHELLE X2696Practically unused. Lists for $250; CALL PETE 

you keep the$. Call Bill Picht at CALL MATT AT 1961 
only $100 or best offer. Call x3744 AT 277-7582
1436 or drop it by 711 Flanner or $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ TRADE 2 GA USC TIX FOR 2 PITT Top 10 Christi Corbett B-day
Lost and Found GA TIX. CALL 239-7545 quotesON KYO TX-80 Receiver $170; NEED 2 PITT GAs 
NEED USC GA'S OR STUD TIX DAYTIME, OR 277-1359 EVE. Technics RS29R Tapedeck $160 CALL x1662 10. "Groovy."
LOST: A REWARD IS OFFERED CALL KIM 2971 9. "He's so ... what's it called? ..
Boston Acoustics A60 Spk. $210
TO ANYONE WHO FOUND MY I NEED PITT, SMU GA'S 
Call 237-1826 WILL TRADE CORBY'S SHIRTS, Absentminded!" 
HEWLETT-PACKARD $$USC$$ PLEASE!! #2819
HATS AND/OR CASH FOR MIAMI 8. "Guys are dogs!"
CALCULATOR (MAYBE IN NSH). I NEED YOU, YOU NEED ME !! 
TIX. 272-3890. 7. "Wait, I think I'm forgetting 
THIS WAS A GRADUATION ( TICKETS I've PITT Tix, You've 3 USC GA's Life's a bowl of cherry PITTS­something... oh yeah. class." 
PRESENT AND I NEED IT FOR Let's DEAL some$$$ Flow!!! PITTS?-PITTS? I need 2
Travel Tour Operator needs Need 2 SMU GA's.Call Sue x4702 6. "You can't really dust for vomit." 
BOTH CLASSES AND Call Matt x1304 Pitt GA's!! Will pay big$$$ 5. "Guys from(your dorm here) aretickets for all N.D. games -home
SENTIMENTAL REASONS. Joyx4857
Need 4 Miami Ga's, and/or USC eunichs." (Okay, Rita said that.) 
and away, especially MSU, USC
PLEASE CALL COLLEEN X2634. TRADE: 2 Senior tix (sec. 29) for
stud tix. Mike x2093. 4. "Neat!"
and Miami. Premium price paid. 
I CAN IDENTIFY IT. any two GA's for USC-call Pete I NEED 6 PITT STUD. TIX. Immediate case available. Will 
3. "Ubiquitous." HELPIIIIII NEED 1 USC STUD 2. "It's sooo BAD!"
X1699 PLEASE CALL STACY x2798. 
trade for all major sporting eventsMY BROWN LEATHER JACKET TICKET CALL KEVIN 288-3032 1. "I'm sooo BONED!"
including Final 4, Indy 500 and 
AND DUKE SWEATSHIRT I need 3 tickets NEED PIT TIX We love you, Chris! Happy dang bowl game, etc. Will also buy 
WERE TAKEN FROM THE UNDvsPITT STUDENT &GA'S 
I need 2 tickets to Air Force! birthday. Love, your weird season tickets. Please call Dave at
ROCKNE BUILDING ON 10/5 Reasonable $$ BRIAN X1521
1-800-828-8955 today. Please call Kathy at 2636 roomies, Tina, and lots of other 
BETWEEN 2 AND 3 O'CLOCK. Call K. Sherry 232-2051 people who really love you too butTHEY HAVE MUCH PERSONAL I'M IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 didn't actually pay for this. 
Need two SMU tix please call 284­
VALUE TO ME-PLEASE USC GA TICKETS I $$$ PLEASE NEED 6 SMU GA'S Will trade 1 USC and/or 1 Pitt stu
4930!!!!!!111!
RETURN, NO QUESTIONS CALL ME ASAP! JENNY 2922 TIM 271-8795 tic for 1 Navy and/or 1 SMU stu tic. 
Happy Anniversary 

ASKED. REWARD GIVEN. call277-2781. 
Ag & The Fiance $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

CINDY. 220 KNOTT, #4928. USC Tickets Needed 
Need SMU and NAVY GA's: Need 4 stud tix/ G.A. 's for the USC GA's. Will pay$$$$. 1 yr. already!
3 NEED PITT GA'S
Call Jim at 287-9854 game. Willing to pay big $$. If you Call John at 283-2005. love, t.bass. the br & mom 
BETH 3706 FOUND -3 keys on a wooden ND 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ can help me call Vovo at 277-3276. -----·------------------------------­key chain at party on ND Ave. They smile. kris! (yes, you KJT) -your sis 
I have 2 NAVY GAs I Need 2 or 4 PITT GA's NEED USC TIX CHERYL x2629 I'll buy any tickets for any home -Call Doug x1065I need 2 SMU GAs 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOLLY! Let's swap--Call Mickey x1689 game, or Miami. 
I have 2 USC GA's; will trade for from your faithful and loving call JEFF at 239-3714, I Need 2 or 4 PITT GA's 2 Pitt GA's; call Mark x3331 or roommates.
leave a message. Thanks. 
-Call Doug x1 065 x3332SMU GAs and Student tix 
Government jobs -your area. I need em. Call 283-2077. CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable 
SO. CAL-NEED 6 TIC'S 
1 need two student tickets to the Will trade 2 SMU GA's for Pitt or
$17,840-$69,485. Callt-602-atmosphere, daily & weekly 
HAVE 2 PITT, NAVY, SO. METH USC game. Call Martha at x1331 . USC GA's; call Mark x3331 or
FOR SALE 50-YD USC & PITT TCKTS! GOES TO BEST OFFER. 
838-8885. Ext R6262 WILL TRADE specials, pool table, English darts, 
x3332 and great company. 234-3541CALL 215-642-2765 1 need GA tixs for all home games 

ENTREPRENEURS WANTED. CALL KATHLEEN X1918 Esp. for USC $$ 284-5227 Patty I need 1 USC stud tix; call Bill 
Earn $5,000-$15,000 in a summer GOOOO KELLEY 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill 
x3363

management position and gain I need 3 SMU GA's and 4 MIAMI BEAT CALCULUS. 
277-3653 
I need 2 USC GA's 
valuable business experience. TIX. Call Don x2335 GOOD LUCK ON # 2.
Please call , Mary Kay 284-5227 Need 1 USC ticket-stud. or GA Triple "A" Student Painters. Call 
BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS 
Call Wendy x4036 I need 3 USC Tix Scott Ruhl 317-362-4234. 

I NEED 10. STUDENT or GA NEED TWO GA'S FOR PITT Call Dan X1417 
I Really need 2 USC 

Call FRANK 287-5320 CALL HEIDI287-8133 Need SMU Ga's National Marketing Firm seeks Call Mark 1890 
GA's

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$mature student to manage on­
NEED GAS FOR PITT. 
HELP!!! I NEED 2 USC GA'S NEED USC AND MIAMI GA'S campus promotions for top NAVY & SMU $$$$ 
please call Beth at 283-2722
WILL PAY$$ ANITA 4975 2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale WILL GIVE BLANK CHECK!!!!!!! 
companies this school year. 
CALL TOM & MARTY 272-5092CALL JEFF AT 1505. $$$$$ 
thanks-oh so much!!

Flexible hours with earnings X 3185 NEED 2 PITT GAs. Have Navy and 
potential to $2,500 per semester. 
SMU GAs to trade, or will pay$$$
Must be organized, hardworking $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ \. 
Call Kevin 277-7167 
PERSONALS j
I NEED Pm GA'S AND Myra at (800) 592-2121. 
and money motivated. Call Joe or 
STUDENT TtX. see CLASS I page 7
I need one USC stud. I have HiT.Bassl!!
ADOPTION: Lov1ng couple 
CALL CHRIS AT 283-4220. dreaming of adopting white infant. 
.................................... 
mucho dinero. Please call Heathe.r.~~--~--~--~-~---~-~--~--~--~--~--~--~--~--~--~--~--~--~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il LET'S HELP EACH OTHERI
Looking for a fraternity, sorority or 
at #3765. t 

student organization that would like to make $500-$1,000 for a one 
Legal/confidential. Expenses paid. 
· Parents are coming from Montana. 
Can I please have 2 GA's and 1Call Lillian and Ed collect, Need 2 USC GA's desperately. 
week on-campus marketing student ticket for the USC football ANYTIME (212) 645-4344 $$$$$$Will pay big $$$$$$$$ project. Must be organized and game and 4 student tickets for the Call Suzanne, 277-9791hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at Pittsburgh one? I'm Tom and my 
(800) 592-2121. 
phone number is 1128. Thank you WANTED: 2 STD & 4 GA FOR Need 3 USC tlx or 2 PittHELP!! NEED RIDE TO MASS./ 
""'HELP THE NEEDY""" USC GAME WILL TOP ANY 
GA's
BOSTON AREA FOR OCT. BREAK I need 2 S.M.U. G.A.'s
TIM 3000
WILL SHARE $$.CALL LIZ AT OFFER BIG BUCKS$$$ # 4364 Kevin H.
X1293 CALL BRIAN "1026 ANYTIME NO PRICE TOO HIGH !!!IIIII NEED DESPERATELY TWO USC­
I NEED 2 USC TIX I ·• NJ bound for Oct. break? I NEED A --------·---··---·------------------­NO TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP MAC X4251
DOLLAR ($$$) CALL FRANK X1280. $$CALL: 4272 IMMEDIATELY!!! 
RIDE!!! Will share$$$. Call Angi at NEED 3 PITT GA TIX I NEED TO TRADE 4 SMU OR DAY-(412) 658-2000 2 PITT GA'S FOR AS MANY EVENING-(412) 654-6176. 
Help Wanted: Small S.B. book WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN USC GA'S AS POSSIBLE publisher seeks part-time THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR PLEASE CALL 284 5022. 
assistant. Call afternoons 232-EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NOTRE 3134. CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY. DAME/USC GAME. PLEASE CALL PITT OR SMU. 800-323-7687. COLLECT 619/565-8303. ASK •••• CASH TODAY ····for USC 
FOR LARRY CORRIGAN. 
,PITT tix stu or ga ·Mark 271-NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 HELP!! I AM IN NEED OF 1 USC Looking to trade 2-4 Pitt GA's for 
AND 1 PITT, GA OR STUD TIX. I I NEED JUST ONE U.S.C. GA-­2-4 Penn St. tix. Please call Bo 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!!!15691 FOR RENT ] call John at x3501. at x2352 if interested. CALL MIKE AT X2002 
·o_Ihe Obset:Ver-=-_c 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Production Manager 
A resume and a personal statement should be submitted to Alison Cocks by Thursday, October 12. Any questions, call Alison at 239­7471 or 283-4059. 
Monday, October 9, 1989 The Observer page 11 
1(niglits of Co[um6us 

a ou 


•' 
From Notre Dame Knights of Columbus Council #1477 


We're back and ready to go!! 
Next meeting: Tuesday October 10, 1989 7pm at the Knights of Columbus Hall located next to the Bookstore 
New members are welcome to drop by 
call 239-7018 for more information. 
Monday, October 9, 1989

page 12 The Observer 
Giants assume commanding lead 
Tampa ends drought with win over Chicago
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO lleartbreak has always seemed to follow the Chicago Cubs. On Sunday night. Matt Williams was the lwartbn•aker. 
While Will Clark and Mark Grace were duPling for records, Williams won th1~ game. 
Williams drove in four runs, including a tie-breaking, two­run homer in the fifth inning. and San Francisco beat Chieago 6-4 to take a 3-1 lead in tlw National League playoffs. 
"Tiwy pitched me in all night and that one was just off the plate," Williams said of his homer. 
On 38 occasions in postsea­son history a team has led 3-1. They have gone on to win the series 31 times. 
"We haven't played well," Cubs manager Don Zimmer said. "But we beat the Mets three in a row and we beat St. Louis three in a row." 
Clark went 3-for-4 and lied an NL playoff record with 10 hits, and Grace drove in two runs to give him eight RBis and a share of the NL series record. for a while. 
"The Cubs are lighting for their life and hopefully we won't have to go back to Chicago," Clark said. "We're getting the clutch hits." 
The Cubs blew a two-game lead in the 1985 playoffs to San Diego, and have not been to the World Series since 1945. 
A's capture AL pennant 
Associated Press 
TOIWNTO Hickey Ilnndnrson came home and the Oakland i\thletics are going horne to the World Series. /\gain. 
The Athletics, with Henderson again running the show, won their sncond straight American League pennant, beating Toronto 4-3 Sunday to win the playoffs in five games. 
Dave Stewart outpitched Dave Stieb for the second time in the series as Oakland became the first team to win consecu­tive pennants since the New York Yanknes and Los Angeles each did it in 1977-78. This also ended the longest streak in history without a repeat cham­pion. 
The Athletics, with the bnst record in baseball the last two 
1 seasons. will open the World Series at horne next Saturday against San Francisco or Chicago. Either way. Oakland will not have to face a pitcher the cal­
iber of Ore! llershiser, who stopped the Athletics in five games last year. And maybe just as important, they have llenderson this time. 
Henderson, who began his career with the Athletics, was traded back to his hometown by the Yankees on June 20 for pitchers Greg Cadaret and Eric Plunk and outfielder Luis Polonia. Ilis return propelled Oakland to the playoffs, then he made them his personal show­ease as he was easily named Most Valuable Player. 
Henderson stole the series, reaching base in 14 of 23 plate appearances and stealing a postseason series record eight bases without being caught. llenderson. who went 6-for-15, hit two horne runs, a triple, a double and scored eight times. 
From  the  start  or.  Sunday.  
llerHII~rson  kept  Toronto  in  
trou hie.  

"We didn't get here with the kind of pitching we have had in this series," Zimmer said. 
The game started in 85-de­gree temperatures at normally cold and windy Candlestick Park. It seemed to help the hit­ters. 
"Our big guys are getting the job done," Williams said. ''I'm confident in that spot now." 
All the offense even caused some short tempers as Clark and Shawon Dunston ex­changed words at first base after the Cubs shortstop blooped a single to right in the sixth. The bPnches emptied, but peace was restored quickly. 
Game 5 of the best-of-7 series is scheduled for Monday at 3:05 EDT. with Mike Bielecki to pitch against Hick Heusehel of the Giants. In the Cubs' 9-5 vic­tory in Game 2. Heuschel was chased in the first inning, al­lowing live hits and live runs. 
The Giants can wrap up their first World Series appearance 
since  1962  with  a  victory  
Monday.  
Kelly Downs,  in  one  of the  

few clutch pitching perfor­mances of the series, relieved Giants starter Scott Garrelts in the fifth and allowed three hits over 4-plus innings for the vic­tory. 
With two outs in the ninth, Hyne Sandberg singled and Steve Bedrosian relieved Downs. Lloyd McClendon blooped a single to right off the glove of second baseman Robby Thompson and walked Grace to load the bases. 
lie then struck out Andre Dawson for his second save of the series. 
With the score 4-4. Clark led off the fifth with a double to make him 10-for-15 in the series. One out later. Williams lined reliever Steve Wilson's pitch over the left-field fence. 
It gave Williams nine HBis, breaking the NL playoff record previously held by Gary Matthews, Dusty Baker and Grace. 
The Giants have eight home runs in the four games. During the regular season, San Francisco hit five homers in 12 games against Chicago. 
The Cubs or Giants will play in the World Series starting next Saturday in Oakland. The Athletics won the American League pennant earlier Sunday in Toronto, and must have dreamed on the flight home about facing the shaky pitching of the NL division champions. 
Once again in this series, the starting pitchers flopped and the outfielders spent most of the time getting familiar with the fans in the bleachers. 
Chicago starter Greg Maddux left in the fourth inning, and his counterpart, Garrelts, followed him to the showers in the next inning. 
Garrelts, who was 10-2 at home during the season, could not protect a 4-2 lead. 
Saturday. Oct 14 
8 OOpm 
Moms C1v1c Allrlllnr111DJ all seats reserved 
$16 50 
Tickets on sale 
NOW 
C1v1c Box Off1ce N1ghtwinds Record Connect1on & usual outlets CHARGE 284-9190 
#1 NOTRE DAME "FIGHTING IRISH" vs. #2 MIAMI "HURRICANES" 
THAHKSGMNG FOOTBAll WEEKEND NOVEMBER 22·26, 1989 
COMPlETE PACKAGE INCWDES 
• 
ROUNDTRIP TRANSPORTATION TO AIRPORT 

• 
ROUNDTRIP JET FLIGHT TO MIAMI 

• 
4 NIGHTS AT THE LUXURIOUS SHAWNEE RESORT DIRECTLY ON BEAUTIFUL MIAMI BEACH 

• 
TRANSFERS TO THE "ORANGE BOWL" 

• 
NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI GAME TICKET 

• 
GREAT AMERICAN'S TOUR STAFF ON-LOCATION 

• 
ALL TAXES AND GRATUITIES INCLUDED 


TRIP PRICE: $435.00, quad occupancy. $150.00 Deposit to reserve your spot Visa and Mastercard accepted 
Contact the Student Activities Office: Notre Dame 239-7308 315 LaFortune Center Saint Mary's 284-4561 103 Haggar Center 
Associated Press 

Vinny Testaverdn passed for threw touchdowns and. before taking a hard knock himself', gave Chicago its hardest knock of the season, leading Tampa Bay to a 42­35 victory. 
Tampa Bay snapped a 12­game losing streak to the Bears, who lost for the first time this season. 
"Looks to me like they're tired of getting beat by the Bears," Chicago eoach Mike Ditka said. 
Coming off' the worst per­formance of his season, Testaverde completed 22 of' 36 passes for 269 yards be­fore he hurt his knen on a late hit by Steve McMichael midway through the fourth quarter and left the game. 
Eagles 21, Giants 19 
Cunningham drove tlw Eagles (:{-21 81 yards for thn winning score, Anthony Toney's short touchdown run with 2:18 to play. 
"The only way we can get hurt by this defeat is to let it matter in the next few weeks," (;iants coach Bill Pan~ells said. "It's a long season." 
49ers 24, Saints 20 
For the fourth time in five games, Jon Montana rallied tlw 49ers to victory, this time with three seeond-half touchdown passes that beat New Orll~<ms. Montana ral­lied the 4<Jers for victories against Indianapolis. Tampa Bay and Philadelphia in the first three games this sea­son. 

H. KAPlAN 
Our classroom instruction, home study materials and review tapes have all been COMPLETELY UPDATED to prepare you for the NEW LSAT. What has NOT CHANGED is our 50 years of test preparation experience, our skilled instructors, our small classes, our first rate study materials and our TEST-N-TAPE~ labs. And our 135 Centers are still open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
CLASSES ARE FORMING NOW for the 1 2 1-4 2 LSAT • 
1717 E. South Bend Avenue 
South Bend1 IN 46637 (219) 272•4135 
Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 


Monday, October 9, 1989 
Coughs, colds hurt NO women runners 
By BARBARA MORAN Sports Writer 
Hampered by colds and coughs, the women's cross country team placed a disappointing sixth in Friday's Notre Dame Invitational, placing only one runner in the top 20. 
A strong Ohio University team took first place in the 1 0-team field with a score of 
51. Ohio had four finishers in the first 10 and was led by Tracy Meyer, who took seventh place. 
Filling out the top five were University of Wisconsin at Oshkosh with 68 points, University of Western Ontario at 75, Edinboro at 92, and Hillsdale at 115. lntPrestingly, Wisconsin beat Western Ontario despite having only one finisher in the top 10, while Western Ontario captured the top throe individual honors, with Jill Purola taking first place in 17:35.8. 
The first finisher for the Irish was Lucy Nusrala, who placed 18th. Nusrala was the only Notre Dame runner who placed in the top 20, but was followed closely by teammates Therese Lemanski in 27th and Amy Blaising in 32nd. 
Irish coach Tim Connelly 
ACCOUNTING SENIORS 
PLANNING TO TAKE THE MAY 1990 CPA EXAM 
AR~ INVITED TO ATTEND A MEETING TO DISCUSS THE NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW PROGRAM INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
DETAILS AT MEETING OR CALL 
EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS 
r~~~~~~~~~~---~----~---, 
immedialdy behind lhe Loll Chapel and t\rchileclure Buildin& for more informalion:
1AN EVENING OF I fr. John Conley. C&C Holy+ Fr. Paul Doyle. C&C 
Old Colle11e
Box 541 
Cross.::K 
Nolre Dame. INNolre Dame. IN 
Priests& 
(219) 239-6302
(ZI9) 239-638'5
ISCOTTISH MUSICI
I PRESENTED BY THE MICHIANA SCOTTISH SOCIETY 
I The Fort Wayne Scottish Pipes and Drums 
I  Nancy Eversole, The Kentucky Woman  
l  Richard Mao, The Peking Piper  
I I  Jolm Watson, Scottish Fiddler and Harper  

ISaturday, Oct. 14, 1989 BENDIX THEATER 7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. e.s.t. Century Center 
Tick~ts: $8.00 120 S. St. Joseph 
( $1 discount for 
! College Students, South.Bend, IN 
l..-·-·~.~~Si!!~~L--~~:?~~~!:~22_l '---------....1 
expressed both disappoint­ment in the team's sixth place finish, and praise for his runners' individual ef­forts. 
"We would have liked to have been in the top five, so we were a little disap­pointed," said Connelly. "It was kind of a letdown after last week's race (fifth in the National Catholics)." 
"It was just one of those weeks ," he continued. " I had a feeling going into the meet that that we weren't going to run as well as we could. A lot of the girls had colds and sore throats. Lucy [Nusrala] had been sick all week and was coughing and hacking before the race -she didn't run as well as she could have. Therese [Lemanski] and Amy [Blaising] ran well. They've both been running very con­sistently this season." 
The Irish have a week off before they take on MCC ri­val Marquette on October 
21. Connelly plans to take advantage of the time to prepare his team for the upcoming meet. 
"We're going to use the time to get healthy and train real hard," he said. "In two weeks, we'll be ready for Marquette." 
The Observer page 13 
Irish men fall to Central Michigan 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
It was one of those teams from Michigan that came back to haunt the Notre Dame men's cross country team again at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Michigan teams have domi­nated the Invitational in recent years, capturing the title for the last four seasons. The loss this year was especially painful. The Irish came in second by only two points, losing to Central Michigan 75-77. 
"It was disappointing," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. "Any number of our guys could have run better, but no one guy is to blame." 
Senior captain Mike O'Connor was the top finisher for Notre Dame, crossing the finish line in eighth place with a time of 
24:36 
over the five mile course at Burke Memorial Golf Course. He was followed by freshman J. 

T. 
Burke, who placed ninth. 


Burke and junior Pat Kearns (17th) were the two Irish run­ners that O'Connor praised for running good races. But he said the rest of the team was not running up to par. 
Saturday's match riding the crest of an easy, but sloppy win over a feeble Northern Illinois
Volley 
continued from page 16 
squad Friday night. fatigable throughout the It took Notre Dame only match, sending 10 total blocks three games to muzzle the back into her opponents' faces. Huskies 15-8, 15-9, 15-13, but 
"Tracey Shelton played ex­it was not an Irish team work­tremely well," Irish head coach ing on all cylinders. 
Lambert said. "And Shelton and Turner were Fiebelkorn and Turner were again a force, but senior Kathy just stea.dy, steady, steady. Cunningham, junior Amy White 
"The team played well in the and freshman Cynthia May also last three games and kept the made their presence known. poise and intensity it needed to Turner led the Irish with 15 
Everyone played as one kills for a .462 hitting percent­we just came out in the age, while adding six digs and fifth game and buried them." Shelton contributed seven kills 
The Irish came into 
1989-1990 
OLD COLLEGE NlC!iT6 
TliE OLD COLLEGE ·cradle of lhe Univcro5il{ 
Buill in 1843 
•. Kr.lhiv ~1me of shared ho;;p,lalllJ. di6Cu&Sion and prayer wclcom1"8 colle11e ,·. ;::ort.o and olhero who are explofl"8 an inleresl in pursuins a proceso of :·;.,:ccnm8 a vcx:al1on Lo mmislry and rd'llious life in Noly Cro&S 
TUE6D,\ Y. OCfOBEQ 10 
7:00PM 
"D!6CEQN!NG fl VOCfiT!ON !lOW TO MilKE fl DEC!610N" 
rr. Nichol111 1\yo. c&: f..uielanl Drofeuor Droyam of Liberal &udiet. 
\ol.rc Dame student.. are inv1led lo each and all of these evenifl&l. [ach 
""~.senlal1on besm• al 7:00 pm and concludes al 8:00 pm. &hared prayer or 
~cicbralion of lhe Eucharisl will follow al 8:15 pm and all are welcome as well. 
Old Colle11e is located on lhe Nolre Dame campus faci"8 6l. Mary Lake 
I ~--iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-~==--======~ 
I Happy 8 irt h day Jason-Shmason 
Love, Stacey, Kelly, Maureen, Jenny, Jim, and Pat 
"The team didn't run well ex­cept for Pat and J. T. If we had three other guys run like they did, we could have done better," he said. 
What made the race especially frustrating was that only two places separated the Irish from Central Michigan. 
"Anyone could have passed two people and we would have won the race," Kearns said. "We have to run more aggres­sively in the future." 
O'Connor said that the Irish ran poorly because of a lack of concentration over the five mile race, and also because they did not run in a pack as they usu­ally do. Kearns also noted that several of the Irish runners had busy weeks, with academics and interviews, and had a tough time juggling academics and training. But the Irish did not take anything away from Central Michigan's victory. 
"Central is good," Piane said. "They have some very good runners." 
Tom O'Rourke and Mike Drake completed the scoring for the Irish, placing 18th and 24th, respectively. 
Ohio University, ranked 20th in the nation, was third in the overall standings. Ohio also had the first-place finisher in the individual competition, as Shannon Ritchie won the race with a time of 24:06. 
The good news for Notre Dame came in the B race later in the day. The Irish won the meet, totaling 85 points to beat runner-up Rochester by 16 points. Top finishers for the Irish were Nick Radkewich, placing 11th, and Matt Ronzone, who was 16th. Shawn Schneider followed Ronzone in 17th place. 
Notre Dame is now looking forward to facing USC at home in two weeks. The Trojans beat the Irish in California last year, and Notre Dame runners are looking for a bit of revenge. 
Also, the Irish are continuing to prepare for the post season championship meets. At the very least, the loss to Central Michigan at the Notre Dame Invitational taught the Irish some important lessons for the future, as Kearns noted. 
"It shows we're going to have to work harder for the NCAAs," he said. "But in the past we've been beaten here and we've come out in the top 10 at the NCAAs." 
White did double-duty on the night, tallying six kills for a .313 hitting percentage and a team-high three block assists before making the difficult transition into the setting slot and recording 14 assists in just one game. 
"We played down to their level tonight," Choquette said of the team's sporadic play. "We felt we could beat them and turned it on when we had to, but we know we're capable of playing better." 
The two victories lift the Irish to 5-9 on the season and may serve as confidence builders going into two difficult show­downs next weekend against Illinois State and defending na­tional champion Texas · at home. 
"The play of the team per se has been great," Lambert said, "and the blocking is the best it's been all year. But next weekend's no picnic and we're going to have to be at our best if hope to win." 
Think of your best friend. 
Now, think of your best friend dead. 
Doo't drive dnmk. 
Aeadef's Digest 

N.D./MIAMIGAME 
NOV. 24-26, 1989 

5599 Doo==~ ~a.~s.., 
2930 McKin..,w-2117'-117 1-BOG-552-·281 
, 
I I 
Monday, October 9, 1989

page 14 The Observer 
ND fans make themselves known 

By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 
PALO ALTO. Calif,-lf not for the boisterous Stanford student snetion, the Notre Dame foot­ball tnam may have had a par­tisan crowd at Stanford Stadium. Notre Damn got 
20.000 tickets in the 86,019­soat stadium. according to Stanford sports information. 
With the score tiod at 14. the Notre Dame fans in tho north ond zone began to make noise, urging the Irish to shake off tim l1~thargy they were showing. The Stanford fans responded. and the pandemonium reigned until Haghib Ismail's runback. after which only the Irish fans were left cheering. 
On the field. the enthusiasm was catching. 
"It just took a lot of heart from this team," Holtz said. "Something just hit me, when thn crowd was in the game. It got very positive. I got uplifted, and I think the players felt it, too. I ean't explain it." 
Holtz was not uplifted by the officiating, particularly as the Irish were penalized eight times for 75 yards and Stanford only once for 11 yards. 
GiVIm 68 pass attempts. only once was the Cardinal nagged for holding.There were also problems with the Stanford game clock. and the 25-second clock was inoperable for most of the game. 
"Stanford is a fine football tnam." Holtz said. ''I've coached teams that would've lost today. I'll say we did a job, with 70 passes and all the penalties." 
Except for one shanked punt in the first quarter, freshman Craig llentrich had a line day kicking. lie had a long punt of 58 yards and a 43.7 average. Five of his punts put the 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
said. pointing to his chest. "It just fnlt good. I don't know if anyone else could do what this team did today." 
Notre Dame did not get on the board until the second quarter, when Johnson scored his first touchdown on a seven­yard run off left tackle, and Hentrich followed with the PAT to give the Irish a 7-6 lead. Culver followed late in the first half with a touchdown run on a pitch from Hice to increase the Irish lead. which they held until Vardell's successful two-point PAT. 
Johnson led the Irish with 75 
.. yards rushing on 15 carries, with two touchdowns. Rice car­ried for 71 yards, including a 38-yard romp to set up Johnson's first score. He also completed 7-of-17 passes for 102 yards, a far cry from Smith's numbers. but the Irish outran the Cardinal 194 yards to 34. Cardinal tight end Jim Price caught 14 Smith passes for 98 yards. Defensive end Andre Jones and cornerback Todd Lyght led th11 Irish in tackles with 12 and 10, respectively. as the sec­ondary took the brunt of Stanford's short passing game. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTilUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTilUTION 
'JlJ<· \''•'l'.:fs Wt U\'(' 1:!1' 
' ' " r,:!!1 
The Observer I Eric Bailey The Notre Dame defense battled Stanford quarterback Steve Smith's attack throughout Saturday's game. Smith completed 39 passes. 
Cardinal on or inside their own 20 yard line. Stanford had a to­tal of 19 yards on four punt re­turns. 
llentrich also kicked three PATs and two fourth-quarter field goals. 
Stanford kicker John llopkin's field goal to open the scoring marked the first time the Irish had trailed in a game since the Rice contest, a span of seven games. 
Was jet lag a problem'? Holtz said he was yawning in the locker room, but none of the players cared to blame their in­consistencies on Friday's six­hour plane ride. 
"We just had a few problems, and we couldn't get together and play together," Irish quar­terback Tony Rice said. "We'll come out next week and we'll have to play better." 
"We can't play this way against Air Force," Holtz said. "Nobody's been able to stop them yet." 

Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers Auto & Property Insurance 
AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 5922 GRAPE ROAD INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 
Placement Exams 

ILLI.Oll. UIOIAMA 
CHICAGO 
MOTOR 
CLUB 
French Spanish 
Mandatory Placement Exams in French and Spanish will be given on Thursday October 12 and Friday October 13 respectively. Students who have studied French or Spanish in high school but have not yet taken a course in these languages at Notre Dame must take a Placement Exam prior to registration. 
Sign up sheets and further information are available in the Language Lab Office Room 251 O'Shaughnessy. 
Sign up closes on Wednesday October 11 at 5:00pm. 
AP Top 25 
How the Associated Press Top Twenty Five eollege football tl'ams fan•d and their next opponents: 
1. 
Notre Dame (5-0-0l beat Stanford 27-17; Next: at No. 20 Air Foren. 

2. 
Miami, Fla. (5-0-0) bl'at Cincinnati 56-0; Next: vs. San Jose State. 

3. 
Colorado (5-0-0) beat Missouri 49-3; Next: at Iowa State. 

4. 
Nebraska (5-0-01 beat Kansas State 58-7; Next: at Missouri. 

5. 
Miehigan (3-1-0) beat Wisconsin 24-0: Next: at No. 24 Miehigan State. 

6. 
Tennessee (5-0-01 beat Georgia 17-14; Next: at No. 13 Alabama. 

7. 
Arkansas (4-0-01 beat Texas Christian 41-19; Next: at Texas Ted1. 

8. 
Pittsburgh (4-0-11 beat Temple 27-3; Next: vs. Navy. 

9. 
Southern Cal (4-1-0) beat Washington 24-16; Next: at California. (tie) West Virginia (4-1-111ost to Virginia Tech 12-10; Next: vs. Cincinnati. 


II. Auburn (3-1-0) bPat Kentucky 24-12; Next: vs. Louisiana State. 
12. 
Houston (4-0-0) beat Baylor M>-10; Next: at No. I<J Texas A&M. 

13. 
Alabama (4-0-01 beat Mississippi 62-27; Next: Southwest Louisiana. 

14. 
NC State (6-0-01 beat Middle Tennessel' 35-14; NPxt: at Clemson. 

15. 
Clemson (5-1-01 beat Virginia 34-20; Next: vs. Gl'orgia Tech. 

16. 
Oklahoma (4-1-0) beat Oklahoma Stall' 37-15; Next: vs. 

17. 
Syracuse (2-2-0) lost to Florida State 41-10; NPxt: vs. l'nnn Stat<•. 

18. 
Illinois (3-1-0) beat Ohio State 34-14; Next: at Purdue. 

19. 
Texas A&M (3-2-0IIost to Texas Tech 27 -24; Next: vs. No. 12 Houston. 

20. 
Air Foree (6-0-01 bPal Navy 35-7; Next: vs. No. I Notn• Dame. 

21. 
Washington State (5-1-0) beat Oregon 51-38; Next: vs. Stanford. 

22. 
Florida State (3-2-0l bPat Syracuse 41-1 0; Next: at Virginia Tech. 

23. 
Oregon (3-2-0) lost to Washington Stat<• 51-:{8; Next: at Washington. 

24. 
Miehigan State (2-2-0l beat Iowa 17-14: Next: vs. No. 5 Miehigan. 

25. 
UCI.A (3-2-0) beat Arizona StatP :n-14; Next: al Arizona. 


Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 

Tanya­Happy 21st! 
"The Girls" are going to have a blast tonight! 
COUNSELINE 
all you do is dial 239-7793 and ask for the name or number of tape you want to hear.Counseline is a confidential telephone service that offers professionally taped materials covering a variety of student concerns 
Mon. • Fri, 4-12 
Tape# Title 1 Friendship Building 50 Eating disorders 4 Physical intimacy 51 Anorexia 6 Expressing negative 52 Bulimia 
thoughts and feelings 61 Therapy and how to use 7 Dealing with 70 Infatuation or love? 
constructive criticism 83 Coping with broken 8 Dealing with anger relationships 9 Understanding jealousy-84 Death and dying 
how to deal with it 85 Understanding grief 10 How to say no 90 Helping a friend 16 Becoming open to 161 Responsible decisions 
others about drinking 20 Female homosexuality 402 Self-assertiveness 
21 Male homosexuality 412 Contract building 30 Anxiety-how to cope 431 What is depression 32 dealing with lonliness 432 Dealing with depression 33 Handling fears 433 Depression as a lifestyle 
34 Increasing self 478 Becoming independent awareness from parents 
35 Building self esteem 479 dealing with alcoholic 37 Relaxation exercises parents 38 Coping with stress 491 Suicidal crisis 39 Female sex role-492 Recognizing suicidal 
changes and stresses potential in others 40 Male sex role-changes 493 Helping someone in a and stresses suicidal crisis 44 Accepting yourself Offered By University Counseling Center,University of Notre Dame for more information or assistance, call 239-7336 
-
Monday, October 9, 1989 The Observer page 15 
-'
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
4:30 to 6:30p.m. in Room 122 Hayes-Healy. The AT&T Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series and the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures are co-sponsoring a lecture by Gerald Prince, a member of the Department of Romance Languages at the University of Pennsylvania. His topic is entitled "On Nasrratology." A workshop will also be held on Tuesday, October 10, from 10:00 a.m. until noon in the Lounge of the Hesburgh Library. 
7:30 
p.m. in Room 100, CCE. Lecture by Dr. Barbara Weaver of Ball State University "Literature and Composition: Model, Metaphor, Mirror, Muse." Freshman Writing Program. 

7:30 
p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Video presen­tation by Dr. Daniel Winicur of Notre Dame. Introduction to DART for SC juniors. Sponsored by the Office of the Dean of Administration and Registrar. 


8:15p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Video presen­tation by Dr. Daniel Winicur of Notre Dame. Introduction to DART for AL Sophomores (A-L). Sponsored by the Office of the Dean of Administration and Registrar. 
9:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Video presen­tation by Dr. Daniel Winicur of Notre Dame. Introduction to DART for AL Sophomores (M-Z). Sponsored by the Office of the Dean of Administration and Registrar. 
Tuesday, October 10 
12:00 p.m. in 131 Decio Faculty Hall. Kellogg Seminar and Brown Bag Lunch. Speaker, Julio Cotler, a Faculty Fellow in the Kellogg Institute. "Problems an.d Possibilities for Democracy in Peru." Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. 
COMICS 
ACROSS 26 Withered 53 Breed of geese 27 Seventh Greek 56 Watering places 
1 Taking letter
precedence 57 Equal: Prefix 28 Littoral region 
8 Bandy words 58 On the way to 10 President 32 Ruler 
so Lone Ranger's Bush's alma 36 Reddish-brown sidekick mater 
37 Younger Guthrie 62 Sea eagle 14 Kind of potato 
38 Vietnamese New 63 Famous nom de
115 Fib 
Year plume18 Put on years 
39 Royal form of 
64 Metal bar 17 Hard-hit ball address 
65 "On the--,"
18 Oscar-winning 
40 "Fiyi~g Down to 
Kerouac book 
costume designer 66 Rowboat
41 Oahu landmark 
20 Gather timber 67 Fowl enclosures 
45 Get-togethers
21 Cheers for matadors 47 Spanish gold DOWN
23 Ivanhoe's 48 Wander freely beloved 49 Fastening 1 Occupies 24 More forbidding device 
2 "The--," Dostoyevsky novel 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Cook stove 4 Haggard novel 5 Ontario's capital 6 Food animal 7 Catcher's 
equipment a Former boxing champion 9 Hideaway 10 A name of God: Heb. 11 U.S. author­critic 
work 


19 Clydesdale or Percheron 22 Two printed pages 25 Make over 
26 Former Pacific counterpart of NATO 
28 Stanches 
29 Theater award 
30-avis 
31 Watched closely 
32 Damage 33 Clinton's canal 34 Plant of the lily 

family 35 Theater world 39 Boutique 41 Electron tube 42 Overran 43 Part of N.B. 44 Extreme 46 Swapped 49 Floral 
arrangement 50 Peculiar 
language 51 Bar legally 52 Alex Haley novel 53 Pop singer-
actress 54 Of aircraft: Prefix 55 "Peter Pan" 
nursemaid 56 Evening, in Paris 59 Producer 
Ziegfeld 61 "Sail--Union .. "·Longfellow 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


-


Sports
~ge 16 Monday, October 9, 1989 
Notre Dame struggles to 27-17 victory 
Irish respond to challenge of Stanford passing attack 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 
PALO ALTO, Calif.-No one told Notre DanH~ about the ehange in the schedule Saturday. The Irish expected Stanford. What they got was an air force. 
Notre Dame won the thriller 27-17, but Stanford quarter­back Steve Smith gave the Irish fits, never letting up on an aerial attack that included 39 completions in 6R attempts for 2S2 yards. 
"We kn!'w they were a passing team," said Irish free safety Pat Terrell. "but this was some­thing we couldn't predict. In thH secondary, you just have to hit them as soon as you can and let tlwm know who hit thHm." 
Terrpll's two intercl-'ptions late in thf' tense fourth quarter helped tlw Notrl' Dame ovHr­ronw tlw Cardinal passing at­lark and a pPnalty-marred pPr­formant'P to record their 17th consecutivl' victory and raise tlwir rpeord to 5-0. Stanford fell to 1-4. 
With S: 14 to play, Stanford got to within one touchdown of tlw Irish. 24-17, and held on deft•nse to force a punt. The Cardinal started from its own 20, and had the momentum and 
"'""''. ·~¥,~, ·~~ 

,. 
The Observer I Eric Bailey 
D'Juan Francisco heads upfield after intercepting a pass. 
Late rally lifts ND volleyball to weekend sweep 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Assistant Sports Writer 
Unbeknownst to many, a bat­tle took place in the Joyce ACC Saturday night. 
A meager audience of 178 witnessed the Notre Dame voi­IHyball team engage in hand-to­hand combat as it beat the vis­iting Hurons of Eastern Michigan in five arduous games, 6-15, 7-15, 16-14, 19­17, 15-2. 
It look as though the Hurons would deliver the knock-out punch swiftly when they had the Irish on the ropes early. 
But whether by strategy or by chance. Notre Dame was tiring 
the Hurons and saw its oppor­
tunity  to  strike  in  the  third  
game  after  deadlocking  the  
score  at  4-4  and  outlasting  

Eastern Michigan after an end­less exchange of sideouts. 
They had been a sleepy giant slow to awake despite the nu­merous kills showered on them by the Hurons' Roxanne Munch, who finished the night with 25 kills. 
But the Irish were able to wrestle the momentum from an obstinate Eastern Michigan squad in the third and fourth games and then crush the fa­tigued and frustrated Hurons in the fifth. 
"For the first time, we played the crowd behind it. Smith 
looked to throw down the left 
sideline to Scott Eschelman, but 
TerrHII picked the pass off, ef­
fectively dashing Stanford's 
hopes for an upset of the top­
ranked Irish. 
"If he was pressured, their 
quarterback had a tendency to 
look right at his receiver," 
Terrell said. ''I'd just read in 
his eyes and follow where he 
was going. We all just go out 
there and do the job. When it's 
a big play, you just do what you 
can. It's not doing anything dif­
ferent, it's getting the job 
done." 
The Irish followed Terrell's 
interception with an 18-yard 
field goal by Craig llentrich, 
making the score 27-17. The 
Cardinal had one more shot, 
but again Terrell picked Smith 
otT, this time with a return of 
42 yards with 1:01 to play. 
When the game was on the line, the Notre Dame defense was true to the test of Stanford's aerial attack. 
"In reality. I think the defense only gave the ten points," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "That's pretty good against a team that throws the ball like that. They came out and did things we hadn't anticipated." 
The Irish offense was incon­sistent, totalling only 296 yards against a Stanford defense that was surrendering an average of 312 per game. 
"They eontained the run very well," said Irish quarterback Tony HicH. "We had to force it up. I just hope next week we can play better, more consis­tnntly." 
"It was not one of our better performances," lloltz said. "Give Stanford credit. Stanford is a good, solid football team. If we can't control the line of scrimmage with our offense, then we don't have an offense. I think we should have started to throw the ball sooner, but to get pounded like we did on of­fense, and face seventy passes, and have that many penalties and still win, then it tells you something." 
Haghib "Rocket" Ismail gave the Irish offense a necessary spark midway through the third quarter. Stanford's first drive in the second half resulted in a two-yard touchdown pass from Smith to Ed McCaffrey. Stanford. trailing 14-12, went like we would do whatever it took to win," junior outside hit­ter Tracey Shelton said. "We started out slowly again, but you could feel the team come together. We came out of the third game and we knew that we'd struggled too hard for that win to give up. 
"We finally played like we're capable of playing and didn't let anything get in our way. We knew we weren't going to give up until we'd won." 
Shelton was a one of the rea­sons the Irish could afford to have that attitude. 
Her match-high 27 kills, two service aces and 11 digs estab­lished Notre Dame on and off 
_ .. 
Notre Dame quarterback.Tony Rice runs past a Stanford defender during Saturday's 27-171rish victory. 
for the tie. Smith's pass fell in­complete, but pass interference was called on the Irish, and the Cardinal made good on the sec­ond try as Tom Vardell plunged over for two, tying the game at 
14. 
For the first time since the Michigan game, the Notre Dame opponent made the mis­take of letting Ismail return the ball. lie broke through the cov­erage on the left hashmark, then headed for the endzone down the right sideline. Kevin Scott of the Cardinal had the angle on Ismail and knocked him out of bounds at the Stanford 13. The 66-yard re­turn resulted in an Anthony Johnson touchdown four plays later to give the Irish a lead they would not relinquish. 
"There was something on the sideline when it got to be 14-all. When the score was tied and the crowd got in the game, I felt something in here," lloltz 
Raghib Ismail again keyed the Notre Dame offense with a 66-yard see IRISH I page 14 kickoff return that led to an Irish touchdown in the fourth quarter. 

the net and sent the previously 10-3 Hurons running for cover. 
Shelton got some help from fellow outside hitter, freshman Alicia Turner, whose 26 kills, three block assists and 15 digs helped rally the Irish from the near-loss. 
Freshman middle hitter Jessica Fiebelkorn drove 16 kills into floorboards while picking up 11 digs defensively and she combined with sopho­more Chris Choquette to form a human wall defensively. 
Fiebelkorn patrolled the net to smother seven Huron kill at­tempts and Choquette was inde­
see VOLLEY I page 13 
Giants win 

Cubs on ropes after 6~4 loss, page 12 
A's advance 
Oakland awaits NL winner, page 12 
Runnersup 
Irish take second in Invite, page 13 

.. 
-






