
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1989 VOL. XXII, NO. 123 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Gun explosion kills at least 47 on USS Iowa 
Associated Press was in danger of sinking, Gal­loway said. The ships were not 
NORFOLK, VA.--A huge gun in the same area as the Iowa. turret packed with gunpowder Iowa crewmen put out a fire exploded in flames on the bat­in the gun turret, which sup­tleship USS Iowa near Puerto ports three of the ship's nine Rico on Wednesday, killing at 16-inch guns, flooded several least 47 sailors in one of the compartments holding ex­worst naval disasters since the plosives as_ a precaution, and Vietnam War. · declared the ship out of danger, 
The death toll from the acci­said Lt. Cmdr. Chris Baumann, dent, during a gunnery exer­another spokesman for the cise, "could go higher, but we fleet. don't know at this point," said The fire was in the second of Lt. Cmdr. Steve Burnett, a two forward turrets. at the spokesman for the Atlantic loading position of the middle Fleet, based in Norfolk. gun, said Bruce Nason, a Navy 
The number of crewmen in­spokesman at the Pentagon. jured had not been determined, There also is a turret at the he said. back of the Iowa. 
Two ships participating in It took 80 minutes after the the same exercise collided 10 a.m. explosion to extinguish Wednesday afternoon about 500 the blaze. miles east of Jacksonville, Fla., The Iowa rendezvoused at causing one minor injury, said midafternoon with the aircraft Archie Galloway, a civilian carrier USS Coral Sea, which public affairs officer at Nor­carries three doctors and has folk. full medical facilities, 
Neither the USS Platt, a fleet Baumann said. Helicopters oiler, nor the frigate USS Tripp from the Coral Sea brought 
Police make arrest in slaying of seven 
Associated Press 
UNITED

MEXICO CITY--Ramon Sal­
STATES

cido Bojorquez, a California winery worker arrested Wed­nesday in the slayings of seven people, told Mexican police he killed his wife and a co-worker because he thought they were I <> > on.. having an affair, officials said. 
"He was arrested before dawn this morning in a surprise roadblock set up by agents fighting the illicit drug trade," said Vicente Mendoza, a spokesman for the attorney general's office. f'-'-:;:n;);;;it;~' > iU 
Salcido, also suspected of kil-~.:=:=:=:::::..£2±::2..;:JLikii.iJ2~:2:l ling two daughters, his mother­in-law and two sisters-in-law in co-workers, Tracy Toovey, a rampage in Sonoma County, Coello said. Calif., was picked up just out­Salcido, 28, was a forklift side Guasave, the spokesman operator who worked with said. The village is near Los Toovey at the winery. About 300 Mochis, Salcido's hometown in people attended a memorial Sinaloa state about 850 miles service Tuesday for Toovey in northwest of Mexico City. Sonoma County. 
Mendoza said he did not know Salcido's nationality, and U.S. According to Coello, Salcido Embassy spokesman Bill told police he killed his wife Graves said the embassy was with a 9mm pistol. 
Navy officials were notifying powder bags, containing about relatives personally of the 110 pounds of powder, are then deaths, Baumann said. rammed in behind the shell and 
The explosion occurred what is called a breech plug is during a gunnery exercise sealed to prevent the leakage about 330 miles northeast of of powder gases. Puerto Rico, Burnett said. Newton said there were "at 
The ship's guns were being least five" stages in the firing test fired and the turret was process when the explosion "full of gunpowder," Baumann could have occurred but would said. The 16-inch guns can fire not speculate further. 2,700-pound shells a distance of The training exercise to im­

AP 23 miles. prove fleet readiness began medical equipment to the Iowa A gun turret is normally oc­April 13 and involved 19,000 and transferred some injured cupied by 27 people, but can people aboard 29 U.S. ships, 3 crewmen to the carrier. hold 60 or 70 people, Baumann allied ships and shore-based 
"The ship has not sent a list said, but, "We don't know how aircraft, Baumann said. of the wounded. They have many people were in there at There were 1,600 people other things more pressing to the time." aboard the ship, including Vice worry about," said Lt. Russ Mark Newton, a former Adm. Jeremiah Johnson, com­Grier, an Atlantic Fleet spokes­Marine who spent a week as a mander of U.S. 2nd Fleet. man. guest on the Iowa in 1987 and In Washington, President 
The Iowa will proceed now is curator of the perma­Bush was asked during a photo Thursday to Roosevelt Roads, nently docked USS Massachu­session with congressional a Navy base in Puerto Rico, setts in Fall River, Mass., ex­leaders to comment on the ex­said Cmdr. Robert Franzmann plained how a shell is loaded. plosion. of the Atlantic Fleet. The 46-After the shell is placed in "It is a great tragedy and a year-old ship, one of the four the gun, a door is opened to the matter of terrible sadness," he largest in the fleet, is based at gun room from the said. 
hoist he said. see GUN I 4 
AP Pholo

Mirthful meeting 
Lech Walesa and Communist party leader Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, surrounded by senior party and Solidarity leaders, share a joke during their first meeting 


Gray to address SMC grads 
not certain whether he was an Salcido was arrested the By COLLEEN CONLEY The author of six books, Gray humanities degree. American citizen. same day services were being has also written numerous ar­Chittister, prioress of the
News Staff 
"He has been arrested at the held in Petaluma, Calif., for ticles and essays for publica­Benedictine order of Erie, request of U.S. authorities who some of the six members of Sal­Writer Francine du Plessix tions which include The New Penn., will also be presentedhave asked for his extradition. cido's family who were killed. Gray will deliver the address Yorker, Esquire and Rolling with the doctorate of 
We are bringing him to Mexico Salcido's wife, mother-in­to the graduating class of Saint Stone. Her book "Divine Dis­humanities. A frequent writer City," Mendoza said, adding law, two sisters-in-law, and Mary's College at the 142nd obedience : Profiles in Catholic and lecturer on women in the that Salcido was in the custody Toovey were butchered, shot to commencement exercises on Radicalism" won her the 1970 church and society, Chittister of the Federal Judicial Police, death or both on April 15. The May 21. National Catholic Book Award. is currently working in Haiti as 
a branch of the attorney gen­next day, three of Salcido's Gray, who will receive an ' The College will· also be part of a Pax Christi fact­eral's office. daughters were found with honorary doctorate of letters awarding other honorary finding team. 
He said Salcido would be their throats cut, two of them degree, will address the 435 degrees to Atlanta Archbishop taken to Mexico City for an ex­dead. seniors at ceremonies begin­Eugene Marino and theologian The President's Medal,tradition hearing. ning at 12 noon in the Court of and author Sister Joan Chit­awarded for outstanding Col­
Javier Coello Trejo, deputy The survivor, 3-year-old Car­LeMans Hall. tister. lege and community service attorney general, told mina, is recovering in The daughter c· a French As the nation's first black will be presented to Lydia Hag­reporters Salcido drove into Petaluma Valley Hospital. She diplomat, Gray emigrated to archbishop, Marino has led na­gar Novakov of Dallas, Class Mexico at the Calexico, Calif., told investigators her father the United States at age 11 and tional efforts to recognize the of 1972. Novakov has served on border crossing. cut her and her sisters. received a bachelor's degree contributions of black Cat­the Saint Mary's board of 
Salcido told Mexican police Salcido's friends told the San from Barnard College. Gray holics and has been a driving regents since 1983 and is cur­he went on the rampage in a fit Francisco Examiner that he began her career as a reporter force in the fight for fuller rently the vice chair of the of jealousy after suspecting had a frenzied, cocaine-fueled with the United Press in 1952 black participation in the board. that his wife of five years was night of drinking and dancing and went on to teach at Yale, church. Marino will receive an having an affair with one of his before the killings. Columbia and Princeton. honorary doctorate of see GRAY I page 7 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, April 20, 1989 
NATIONAL B,RIEFS 
Capitol Records won the right to begin exclusive distribution of a new "comebaek" album by Donny Osmond in a court dispute between the record company and another record producer. Former Lt. Gov. Mike Curb, head of Curb Records, had contended he gained exclusive rights to distribute the song "Soldier of Love" and other songs Osmond recently recorded. But U.S. district Judge Robert Takasugi ruled Tuesday that a March 6 agreement gave Capitol the right to distribute the new album. 
1,000 people packed a synagogue Wednesday to re~ember Yippie founder Abbie Hoffman. He was found dead at hiS home near New Hope, Pa., on April12. A coroner ruled Tuesday that Hoffman committed suicide with an overdose of barbiturates mixed with alcohol. Friends and relatives said they doubted Hof-. fman took his own life. 
Lucille Ball, the zany redheaded queen of comedy, was in serious condition today after seven hours of emergency high-risk cardiac surgery during which she received heart tissue donated from a 27-year-old man. The 77-year-old comedian suffered a heart attack at her Beverly Hills home Tuesday, and arrived at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center with her husband, Gary Morton. Doctors said her condition was serious but stable. Miss Ball was still unconscious 12 hours after the surgery. 
STATE BRIEIFS 
Teen miracle, Lisa Willoughby insists she is just a regular teen-ager. Her mother calls her a miracle because the heart of an anonymous donor beats inside the body of the 15-year-old. Lisa was the youngest heart transplant patient at Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis in July 1987. Just a few months after she was diaganosed as having congestive heart failure she had a new heart. Ten days after the 5 hour surgery Lisa was home, predicted to live a healthy and normal life. 
Well-wishers showered money gifts in an outpouring of support Wednesday for 5-year-old, Erin Bower who lost her left hand in a bomb explosion at an Indianapolis K mart store. She may recover only partial sight in her left eye as a result of the blast Monday night, Methodist Hospital physicians said. A pipe bomb had been concealed in a pump-type toothpaste dispenser that the child picked up while shopping with her mother. 
Pigeons' days in Terre Haute may be numbered if the City Council goes through with a $2,350 proposal to get rid of the birds. Council members are considering a proposal from Daniel Budde of Norris City, Ill., who says he can help officials rid the city of 90 percent of its pigeon problem. Councilman Larry Kirchner told his colleagues during a meeting last week that Budde's plan entails trapping the pigeons and selling them to a breeder. The breeder in turn would mate them for the purpose of producing squab, a nestling pigeon that many people consider a delicacy, Kirchner said. 
WEATHER 

Catch some rays 
Mostly sunny and mild today. Highs in the 70s. Mostly clear tonight. Lows in the 40s. Mostly sunny and warmer Friday. Highs in the 
70s. 
ALMANAC 
On April 20: e In 1902: SCientists Marie and Pierre Curie isolated the radioactive 
element radium. e In 1971 : The U. S. Supreme Court upheld the use of busing to 
achieve racial desegregation in schools. e In 1978: A Korean Air Lines 
Boeing 707 crash-landed in north­western Russia after being fired on by a Soviet airspace. Two passengers were killed. 
e In 1983: President Reagan signed a $165 billion Social Security rescue plan designed to prevent 
bankruptcy of the tmst fund for the elderly. e Ten Years Ago: A bomb seriously damaged the Palace of the 
Senators, the Rome city hall designed by Michelangelo. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Closings for Wed., April 1Sl, 1SI8SI 


Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 
+7.51 
Closed at 2386.91 

Mark +.0037 to 1.8580 OM I $ Yen +.99 to 132.45 ¥I$ 
Precious Metals 

Gold +$0.10 to $383.40 I oz. Sliver+ 1.5¢ to $5.7651 oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 

Information compiled frorn Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 

Activities make proper balance more difficult 
DOOMSDAY. 
That's what's scrawled in huge red letters at the top of my calender this month. Beneath this, I've even written the exact date that Doomsday happens to fall on. 
No, Doomsday's not the day that the greater part of the California coast falls into the Pacific, nor is it the Second Coming--it's the date I have another major research ]Paper due. 
Yes, this is the very same paper that I in­tended to start the second week of the semester so it would be ready to publish next week. Ya, sure. 
Let the descent into academic hell begin. 
Hardly a wasted day goes by, and still I can­not find time to accomplish half of what I should or want to do. 
We all take five classes a semester (with many exceptions), yet most professors would like to believe that theirs is the only one. The History of Rational Thinkers in an Irrational World Laden with Death and War may be a perfectly interesting and inspiring class. But when it comes down to a choice between getting five instead of four hours of sleep a night, having clean underwear, and doing "suggested readings" for my History of Rational. .. class, sorry to say, I'll usually break down and choose one of the former two options. 
And what are "suggested readings anyway?" Rumor has it that they are for all of us who devour the books on the required reading list (weeks in advance of their assigned dates) and then hanker for MORE .. Not a bad thing all together in theory, but who are we kidding? For the most part, required readings tend to be both interesting and time consuming. I rarely have the opportunity to finish those read­ings, let alone any extra ones, no matter how fascinating they may be. 
Another errant concept that prevails is that of the "extra-credit assignment." There are only two reasons for offering them: 1.) to pro­vide more work for those who have finished the "suggested readings" and still do not feel ful­filled, and 2.) to "help" those who performed less-than-scholarly on the last exam. Though I am no Gallup pollster, I would venture to say that the second reason is the more popular of the two. 
OF INTEREST 
NotreDame Encounterparticipants please bring ID numbers to the Campus Ministry Of­fice in Badin Hall no later than April 25 for the end of the year picnic which will be held at 4 
p.m. April 30 at the Fatima Retreat Center. 
College of Science Dean's Run will be held Sunday, April 30, at 11 a.m. The race is 7 km long (twice around the lakes) beginning at Carroll Hall. T-shirts will be given to all parti­cipants. Sign up in the College of Science Dean's Office, second floor, Nieuwland Science Hall. 
An Italian Lunch is being served at the Center for Social Concerns today from 11:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. Proceeds go to the CILA Mexico project. 
ISO Board applications are due today by 6 
p.m. in the ISO Office, LaFortune. A presenta­tion on Puerto Rico, sponsored by ISO, will be held tonight at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the ISO lounge. 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

'A balance 
between academics and extra-curriculars is needed ... ' 
Christine Walsh Assistant News Editor 

We could abolish extra-credit assignments forever if we would only get 4.0's the first time around. In the ideal world we would all just be academic machines, cranking out tests and papers like the New York Times crossword. Unfortunately, this is not nirvana, this is Notre Dame. 
Why do we have occassional abysmal showings on tests and turn in late papers? Sometimes it's just not possible to devote our complete attention to a test or paper, even though it might be in the "only class we take." 
As members of the Notre Dame community, we students are supposed to take part in volun­teer work: at Logan Center, tutoring, and even cleaning up the Northeast neighborhood. Many of us are involved in sports, from football to fencing to Bookstore Basketball. Some of us even work for clubs and other organizations. These are things that we are genuinely inter­ested in, just as much, if not more than our classroom studies. 
These activities have one thing in common: 
They take lots of time. 
Given time contraints, a balance between academics and extra-curriculars is needed, and neither one should be more important than the other. 
In the ideal world we could read suggested readings, do extra-credit assignments for simple academic edification, play varsity soc­cer, and work at the esc. While this is an im­possibility, what we can and should strive for is to do the best we can with what time we are afforded, and hopefully learn and accomplish something along the way. Christine Walsh is a sophomore majoring in Government and PPE. She serves as assistant news editor and assistant Viewpoint editor at The Observer. 
Seniors: New job openings have been received by the Career and Placement Services office within the past week. Various positions with such companies as McDonnell Douglas Space Systems Company, Northwest Airlines, Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company, Southwes­tern Bell Corporation, Trammel Crow Compa­ny, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, and many others are detailed in a handout available now in the Placement Office. · 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center untill p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. 
Design Editor......................... Karen Newlove Design Aaalatant .............•..•... Beth Peterson Typesetters ............................. Chris Donnelly .................................................... Mark Derwent News Editor ............................... Kelley Tuthill Copy Editor ............................ Janice O'Leary Sparta Copy Editor............. Steve Magargee VIewpoint Copy Editor ...•••...•..•••• Kim Skiles VIewpoint Layout ..................... Allison Cocks Accent Editor......................... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor ••••••••••••••.••• Matt Murphy Ada Dealgner ...........•.......•... Shannon Roach . ..................................................... Mindy Breen Typist............................................. Will Zamer ..••..••..........•••..••••••••...••••.••.•••.•••.•• Diane Bradley NO Dey EdHor•..•...•..••.•• Margaret McCloskey SMC D.y Editor .................. Rozel Gatmaitan 
Photographer ............................ Tom Hassett 
Thursday, April 20, 1989 
1988-89 band awards announced 
By Cathy Flynn Other awards are based on 
Staff Reporter a point system in which 
points are accumulated ac­
Band awards for the 1988-cording to participation in 
89 season were given out various bands. "These are 
Tuesday at the spring ban­the kinds of awards for 
quet at the Elk's Club in people who have done a lot, 
South Bend. but haven't been recog­
"It was a nice surprise," nized." 
said senior Kent Jaffirs, of Three points each are 
his Service Award. Senior earned for each semester 
Laura Silva also won this spent in either the Marching 
new award, which was pre­Band or the Concert Band. 
sented by Bob Casey, presi­Two points are given for par­
dent of band alumni. ticipation in the Varsity 
Paul Loughridge, a senior Band. 
drum major, won the Robert Blanket awards require 
F. O'Brien Award and the the greatest accumulation of Armand Galli Drum Captain points. Seniors Scott Barton, Award. The O'Brien award Aileen Goodwine, and Laura recognizes musicianship Silva won blankets. and leadership. Steins were awarded to 
Kathy Barrett and Randy twenty-six members, for the 
Westmoreland were given second prize. Forty-seven 
graduate assistant director members qualified for the 
plaques. Aileen Goodwine, Sweater Award, which is the 
Matt Mickle, Allison Eulitt, third place award on the 
and Rob Penna recieved the point system. 
President's Award, Vice­Dr. Luther Snavely is 
President's Award, Secre­director of Bands, with 
tary's Award and the Trea­James Phillips, associate 
surer's Award respectively. director and Father George 
Wiskirchen, assistant direc­
Sharon Repik was pre­tor and band chaplain. Julie sented with the Gerald McCarthy, social chairman, Smith Memorial Prize. planned the banquet. Mark Taylor -was presented The band will perform for with a drum major plaque a lawn concert, ROTC com­in recognition of his out­missioning, baccalaureate standing service to the band. mass and commencement. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSinEDS. 
Wanna get personal? 
Say it with an Observer Classified. 

!1JliJ~®ill~®D~® 

A WEEK-LONG SHAKESPEARE CELEBRA,.ION 

APRIL 22 &23. -7:00 PM -Faculty Dining Room AN ELIZABETHAN BANQUET BY CANDLELIGHT An elaborate four-course Elizabethan menu Singers, Dancers, Musicians, Jugglers, Acrobats: An "Interlude" Reservations: 288-4655 (ask for Mrs. Maza) 239-5069 (ask for Prof. Rathburn) 
Faculty $25.00 Students $20.00 



,APRIL 24 
8:00PM -Bendix Theater, Century Center "ONE MAN IN. HIS TIME" : AN EVENING WITH SHAKESPEAREo Starring noted Chicago actor: James O'Reilly "A brilliant performance" 
All Student Tickets: $4.00 -at Bendix Theater, Centu111 Center 
APRIL 24·27 7:00PM -Engineering Auditorium A SHAKESPEARE FILM MINI-SERIES A Midsummer Night's Dream -April24 Ran (acclaimed Japanese King Lear) -April25 Henry V (Lourdes Oliver) -April26 Henry VIII (Anthony Quayle) -April 27 

8:00 PM Bendix Theater, Century Center 

MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING . A production by the Four Winds Group Company 
All Student Tickets: $4.00-at Bendix Theater 
The Observer page 3 


ND part of cable TV series 
By ASHOK RODRIGUES Productions, are hosted by to help solve the problem. Staff Reporter local anchorpeople Mike Col­lins and Maureen McFadden. Also partaking in series will 
As part of a new cable series, be the Trinity Episcopal Parish the University of Notre Dame Notre Dame's first contribu­on Wall Street in New York, is producing several television tion, which was unveiled Wed­and the Lutheran Medical Cen­shows on the issues of social nesday, detailed the issue of ter. Each contributor will and legal ethics. homelessness in America. The produce four shows for the first 
The series, entitled "Hard program stressed that most part of the series. A show by Choices," will be aired on the homeless people are not out­each group will be aired each Vision Interfaith Satellite Net­casts of society, but merely vic­week. work. According to Denny tims of circumstances beyond Moore of the Department of their control. "If all goes well, the series Public Relations, this network will expand in the fall and we is comprised of organizations David Link, dean of the Notre will continue to be involved," representing over 20 Dame Law School, was fea­said Moore. He said that then denominations. tured on the show. "One of the the University will probably 
The whole idea of the most Qrgent (ethical) ques­have its own show every week, series.. .is that there are socie­tions facing American society instead of alternating with tal concerns that not only re­today is the question of home­other organizatons. quire a response from society lessness," he said. itself, but also require a per­According to Warner, the Vi­sonal response," said Father Actor Martin Sheen also ap­sion network currently reaches Richard Warner, counselor to peared on the show. He said over 6 million households and University President Father that, "if you ask me what the broadcasts 15 hours a day. The Edward Malloy. solution is, in all honesty I don't network should reach 20 mil­
Notre Dame's shows, which have the vaguest idea," but lion broadcasting full time by are produced by Golden Dome that each individual had a duty September, he said. 
~
1988-89 ND student financial aid 
I 

figures show total of $53 million 
By SARAH VOIGT Joseph Russo cites three Russo speculates that the reasons for the $3-4 million in­overall amount of financial aid 
Senior Staff Reporter 
crease in available aid. "As given to Notre Dames' students The amount of financial aid costs (tuition) increase, stu­is comparable to students at 
recieved by Notre Dame stu­dent eligibility for assistance other private universities of dents during the 1988-89 aca­goes up." similar sizes and costs. demic year will total approxi­Similarly, tuition scholar­Russo, however, said that mately $53 million, $3-4 million ships such as ROTC, fellow-Notre Dame "would not do as more than the previous year, . ships, and athletic grants also well in terms of scholarships. 
according to preliminary fig­increase when costs rise, ac­We hope that the 'Notre Dame ures. cording to Russo. Russo also Campaign' for funds will bring 
The $53 million figure in­cites an increase in parents' our goal of providing much cludes the total value of finan­private loans as a reason for more scholarship money to cial aid allotted in the form of the additional available aid. fruition." federal grants, loans, ROTC "Many parents are exploring The "Notre Dame Cam­scholarships, campus employ­new kinds of financial alterna­paign" is in its third year and ment, and fellowships. tives to cover the cost of a col­has already raised more than 
Director of Financial Aid lege education," said Russo. 
$300 million for the University. Yet Russo said that the specific component of undergraduate scholarship money has not yet reached its $60 million goal. 
According to Russo, about two thirds of the student body recieve some kind of financial aid. This statistic includes all financial aid recieved by any student from sources inside or outside of the University. 
Russo forsees no drastic in­crease in funds for student aid from the federal government in the future. "Although we have had no clear signals as of yet, I don't see any drastic changes in aid from the Reagan admin­istration," Russo said. 
"I think that the current trend toward more student loan money and less grant money will not change. Before Reagan took office there was a more reasonable balance between loans and grants," said Russo. 
r-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··,
i What's new? ii Read us and find out. i 
..-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·· 

FIOI


$349. 

STUDENT/YOUTH TOURS 

SOVIET UNION 
"One-Week Len1ngrad & Moscow 
Council Travel 
29 E. Delawate Pl. Chicago. ll60611 312·1151-<1585 

page 4 The Observer Thursday, April 20, 1989 




Supreme Court debates porn law 
Associated Press technological safeguards, Tribe said, "Their availability makes this flat ban il­
WASHINGTON--The Bush legitimate." administration urged the Su­The 976 exchanges also are preme Court on Wednesday to used for other, non­protect the nation's children by controversial types of mes­upholding a federal law that sages such as sport scores, would shut down the $2 billion time checks and weather "dial-a-porn" industry. reports. 
Congress was justified when The total ban on dial-a-porn it passed a law last year ban­never was imposed because a ning all sexually explicit tele­federal judge in California phone dial-up message ser­ruled that the 1988 law could be vices to "protect children from applied only to obscene, not hearing patently offensive merely indecent, phone mes­speech," Justice Department sages. lawyer Richard Taranto con­tended. U.S. District Judge Wallace 
But Harvard law professor Tashima in Los Angeles said Laurence Tribe, representing a outlawing non-obscene mes­major purveyor of dial-a-porn sages, even though they may services, said Congress went be inappropriate for minors, vi­too far. olates the free-speech protec­
Saying most attempts by tions of the Constitution's First children to reach the 976 num­Amendment. The government bers used by dial-a-porn com­appealed the ruling to the Su­panies can be frustrated by preme Court. 


The Observer 








Gun 
continued from page 1 
g
"I will take this opportunity to express my regrets, espe­cially to the families of the kids 
CENTER FOR SPXRI'TUALrry·
that were killed," Bush said. He called it a "terrible tragMy 
SAINT MA\.RY'S COLLEGE
to lose a lot of fine young lives." 
In addition to its massive 16­inch guns, the 887-foot Iowa is equipped with 12 five-inch guns and Tomahawk and Harpoon missiles. It was the model for 
The Fifth Annual Madeleva Lecture in three other Iowa-class battles­
Spirituality
hips and is among the most 
"Passionate Women: Two Medieval
heavily armored of U.S. war­. ships. 

Mystics" 
The Lives of Hildegard and Bingen and 
SUMMER CAMP 
Hadewijch of Antwerp Counselors: 21t. coed, 
POSIT~ONS 

Elizabeth Dreyer
sleepaway camp, Mass. 
Assistant Professor of Theology, 
Berkshires. WSI, arts & 
Washington (D.C.) Theological Union 
crafts, tennis, all land and 
Thursday, April 20, 7:30p.m.
water sports, drama, 
Moreau Hall Little Theatre 
gymnastics, piano/play for 
ADMISSION FREE
shows, judo, dance, 
For further information, contact the Center for 
photography, computers, 
Spirituality 21M84-4636 
nature, wilderness, model rocketry, guitar, yearbook, woodworking, RN, typist, 


--1%1-­
Write: Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Rd, 
SaintMary's College 
Eastchester, NY 10707 
NOTRE DAME o INDIANA 
or call 914fi79-9406 
The Observer I Tom Hassett

It's that time of year 

Once again the checkmarking process begins. Students stand in line in O'Shag trying to register for a Philosophy course. 
Fish oil helps high blood pressure 
Associated Press drug propranolol. surprised to find that it seemed 
However, the amounts taken to work. But they cautioned 
BOSTON--Large doses of were much higher than the that people should not ex­fish oil can relieve mild high doses usually suggested by change their blood pressureblood pressure and may work manufacturers of widely ad­pills for fish oil until doctors as well as some commonly used vertised brands of fish oil cap­know more about its effective­prescription drugs, a ·study sules. In fact, when taken at ness and safety.concludes. the recommended doses, the oil 
Many claims have been did not change the subjects' "For the time being, we are made about the seeming blood pressure. taking a cautious approach and benefits of fish oil on the heart Other studies have suggested not recommending it as a and circulatory system, but that fish oil can prevent heart therapy for high blood pres­convincing data to back up disease by repairing damaged sure;" Knapp said in an inter­these beliefs have been scarce arteries, lowering dangerously view. "Certainly I wouldn't and many experts remain high cholesterol levels and throw away my propranololdubious. slowing the blood's tendency to and start taking fish oil in­
The latest study, conducted clot. stead." on 32 white males, provides some of the strongest evidence Drs. Howard Knapp and Gar­At Boston's Beth Israel yet to support at least one of rett Fitzgerald, the research­Hospital, Dr. Richard Paster­fish oil's reputed merits. ers who conducted the latest nak said doctors should wait for 
Fish oil seemed to work study at Vanderbilt University, the results of several large about as well as two mainstays have been among fish oil skep­studies now under way before of blood pressure therapy-­tics. making up their minds about diuretics and the beta-blocker Both said were fish oil. 




-----· ------------------·--------------------­
. Thursday, April 20, 1989 The Observer page 5 

Lawrence Rawl, chairman of Exxon Corp., gestures at a news confer­ence in New York Tuesday. Rawl defended his company's response to the Alaskan oil spill, blaming delays on indecisive regulatory agencies. 
Associated Press 
SEWARD, ALASKA--A So­viet ship that can skim oil on the high seas joined the war against the nation's worst oil spill Wednesday, docking in a town named for the man who bought Alaska from Russia for $7.2 million. 
The 11,400-ton Vaidogubsky, 425 feet long, steamed 30 miles up fjord-like Resurrection Bay under a cloudy sky, flying the Soviet hammer and sickle from its stern and an American flag from its towering white super­structure. 
It tied up at a railroad dock, its decks strewn with heavy equipment, smoke spewing from its stacks. 
About 100 yards away, crews unloaded oil-soaked booms and ­absorbent material from the cleanup at Nuka Bay, one of the most polluted sites on the southern coast of the Kenai Peninsula. 
"It's pretty impressive for a. skimmer," said Coast Guard Petty Officer Ken Safford, who snapped photos as the ship ar­rived a little before 8 a.m. "It's huge." 
By midmorning, a stream of tourists were driving up to the dock to take pictures and wave to the crew. 
Associated Press him of "the Keystone Kops." 
Most witnesses before the 
Senate's environmental protec­
WASHINGTON--Transpor-tion subcommittee--from tation Secretary Samuel Skin-federal officials to Alaska's ner told the Senate Wednesday governor and industry that industry plans for dealing executives--said plans for with an Alaskan oil spill had dealing with a spill of oil from been a "zero." One senator the Alaskan pipeline had not said the initial response to the imagined an accident on the \'larch 24 disaster reminded magnitude of the 10-million-




Soviet ship aids oil clean-up 
Senate debates slow action in response to March oil spill 
gallon spill that soiled pristine Prince William Sound. 
Skinner, asked to evaluate the plap developed by a consor­tium of oil companies that ship oil from Alaska's North slope through the pipeline and Val­dez harbor, said the document should not have been approved by the state and should have brought warnings from the 
Leaving school has never been soeasy. 
It's not surprising that so many students move with Rvder: 
We've got sturdy, dependable trucks in all sizes. Man); a~ automatics, with power steering, air conditioning, and FM on top of the AM. Plus, Ryder can help out with boxes, hand trucks, even moving tips. 
And we're easy on the wallet, too 

CALL RYDER TRUCKS AT THESE LOCATIONS 
2715 N. Bendix  277-3550  US33N  272-1669  
2306 Western Ave.  289-7515  2625 S. Main  232-6729  
1914 Miami  289-6721  1129 N. Bendix  288-0316  

RYDER® 

We're there at every tum."" 
The ship came to Seward for refueling, and probably would be in port all day, said Coast Guard Capt. Rene Roussel. 
The oil spilled March 24 by an Exxon tanker is becoming very thick and difficult to deal with as it weathers, Roussel said. 
"We don't know how it (the Vaidogubsky) is going to work in the kind of oil we're skim­ming," he said. "Our goal is to get in the oil. We'll probably use it in Resurrection Bay for awhile." 
The Vaidogubsky works with two motorboats that drag a boom to corral the oil. Then two pipes working like 100-foot straws dip into the oil and suck it onto the larger ship, said a Soviet crewman who spoke in halting English. 
If there's not enough oil there to justify its continued use, the Coast Guard will move it "to where the oil is. Nuka Bay is our most likely plan,'' he said. 
The Vaidogubsky probably will be available for 30 days, Roussel said. It's unclear who will pay its fuel and operating costs, he said. 
Exxon has promised to pay the costs of the total cleanup effort. 
Seward this week became the first town outside Prince William Sound to have oil wash up on a beach. 

"If they (the Soviets) can capture oil out there and pick it up before it blows on shore, that's much to our advantage," Seward deputy city manager Darryl Schaefermeyer said. 
"Our goal is to get the oil picked up and not wait until it gets on beaches, and then have to clean beaches." 
The oil that washed ashore near Seward was a taffy-like goop mixed with seaweed, and was cleaned up Tuesday. But more oil was in Resurrection Bay, and still more reported on nearby islands and headlands of the Kenai Peninsula, includ­ing at Kenai Fjords National Park. 
The oil has been streaming into the Gulf of Alaska from Prince William Sound where the tanker Exxon Valdez hit a reef and spilled 10.1 million gal­lons of North Slope crude oil. 
~ 
Skimming in the often I 
I
stormy gulf has been ham­I pered by high seas because the small boats now in operation can handle seas only to about 5 feet. Seas recently have run as high as 12 feet. 
Exxon has about 20 skim­mers working in the sound and the gulf. 
federal government that the plan was inadequate. 
"On the scale of one to 10, it was a zero," Skinner said ofthe standby procedures. 
The secretary told the panel that, before the tanker Exxon Valdez grounded, everyone had "assumed that this would never happen." 
"I don't think anybody was ready to deal with a spill of this magnitude," said Skinner. whose department oversees the Coast Guard. 


The subcommittee's chair­man, Sen. Max Baucus, D­Mont., complained that "there has never been a time when this situation was under con­trol." 
liO<ETS: $7.so~ ol10 ..'"""'~ $9.SOAdlranco, $11.50 Ooot All SEATS RESERVED 
TICKET OOTLETS: ALL TlCI<ETMASlt:R LOCATOIS PLUS! Zordefv.r1 F.mlf lloolcsbe, Owisi:nCenw Bookst>re. 0\.a.ogt*l BoxOI!ce. BehlBooksDe (M"""'""' & EW..Q. l.iW1g Wad-·(Mctig;w1 Oly). o.islan l..igtt lloolcsbe ~).-Bookstlre (l'lymtufl) 
Fa M:NISI\ Odor. Bro54&-4000 
IN CONCERT 
Thursday, April 20, 1989 

page 6 The Observer 
•

ND rE!Celves research funds 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre 
Dame received $1,143,752 in 
grants during March for the 
support of research and 
various programs. Re­
search funds totaled 
$994,025, including: 
$175,491 from the National 
Science Foundation for re­
search by Stephen Lundeen, 
professor of physics, on fast 
beam elementary particle 
physics. 
$133,030 from the National 
Institutes of Health for re­
search by Morton Fuchs, 
chairman and professor of 
biological sciences, on the 
reproductive physiology of 
Aedes mosquitoes. 
$100,000 from CONVEX 
Computer Corporation for 
microelectronic research by 
John Dow, Freimann profes­
sor of physics. 
$88,200 from the National 
Science Foundation for re­. search on neutron scattering in diluted magnetic semi­
conductors by Jacek Fur­
dyna, Marquez professor of 
physics; Tomasz Giebul­
towicz, associate faculty fel­
low in physics; and Nitin 
Samarth, assistant faculty 
fellow in physics. 
$85,000 from the Nationa 
Endowment for the 
Humanities for research by 
Eugene Ulrich, professor of 
theology, on two volumes of 
the Biblical Qumran (Dead 
Sea) Scrolls. 
$75,000 from the U.S.Navy for research by John Dow, Freimann professor of physics on the theory of su­perlattices. 
$73,000 from the U.S.Navy for a study of electronic transport and breakdown on silicon dioxide by Wolfgang Porod, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering. 
$53,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Vicki Martin, as­sistant professor of biologi­cal sciences, on stem cell development. 
$50,000 from Amoco Chemical Research Center for research on microwaves in high-temperature super­conducting single crystals by Walter Tomasch, profes­sor of physics, and Howard Blackstead, associate pro­fessor of physics. 
$46,600 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on complege sur­faces in three-space by Brian Smyth, professor of mathmetics, and Frederico Xavier, associate professor of mathematics. 
$40,000 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by John Van Engen, director of the Medieval Institute and associate professor of his­tory, on the Critical Edition of the Lives of the Brothers. 
$29,990 from the U.S. Navy for research on selective up­dating for adaptive signal and image processing by Yih-Fang Huang, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering, and Ruey-Wen Liu, Freimann professor of electrical and 
computer engineering. 

$11,750 from the National 
Science Foundation for re­
search on photo affinity 
labelling by Kerry Thomas, 
Nieuwland professor of sci­
ence in chemistry, and 
Florea} Olea, postdoctoral 
student. 

$10,000 from the National 
Endowment for the 
Humanities for research on 
the Princeton Encyclopedia 
of Poetry and Poetics by 
Terry Brogan, faculty re­
search fellow, and Roger 
Skurski, director of the Cen­ter for the Study of Contem­porary Society. 
$10,000 from the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration Goddard Space Center for research by Daniel Costello, professor of electrical and computer engineering, on error con­trol coding. 
$4,964 from Bendix Engine Control System for research by Alan Pelton, assistant professor of materials sci­ence and engineering, on ad­vanced aluminum-based alloys. 
$4,500 from the National Institutes of Heath for re­search by John Duman, as­sociate dean of the College of Science and professor of biological sciences, con­nected with the Minority High School Student Re­search Apprentice Pro­gram. 
$3,500 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by Theresa Krier, assistant professor of English, on the decorums of vision in Ed­mund Spencer. 
Use of computing from the National Center for Super­computing for a theoretical study of organic high-energy by Daniel Costello, professor of electrical and computer engineering. 
$40,222 from the National Science Foundaton for re­search opportunities for engineering undergraduates in civil engineering, ad­ministered by William Gray, chairman and Massman professor of civil ~ngineeri­ng. 
$30,072 from the National Science Foundation for re­search opportunities for engineering undergraduates in aerospace and mechani­cal engineering, adminis­tered by Thomas Mueller, chairman and Roth-Gibson porofessor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, Stuart McComas and Robert Nelson, professors of aero­space and mechanical engineering. 
Award for service pro­grams totaled $47,396 from private benefactors for pro­grams of the Institutes for Pastoral and Social Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns. 
$22,947 from the National 
Endowment for the 
Humanities for work con­
nected with the political and 
philosophical essays of B.N. 
Chicherin by Gary Ham­
burg, associate professor of 
history. 
$9,090 from the National 
Science Foundation for a 
seminar entitled "Trends in 
Fundamental-Interaction 
Research,'' administered by 
William McGlinn, professor 
of physics. 


Bush and Hussein talk about Mid-East peace 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON--President Bush and Jordan's King Hus­sein agreed Wednesday to strive for "a serious negotiat­ing process" for Middle East peace, and the United States said the monarch did not reject an Israeli proposal for Pales­tinian elections in the West Bank and Gaza. 
Mter the two leaders talked for more than an hour at the White House, the administra­tion expressed satisfaction over Hussein's statement to Bush that "I fully support you and all your efforts." 
Hussein's visit marked the end of the first round of Middle East diplomacy for Bush, fol­lowing talks earlier this month with Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir. 
As he had done with the two others, Bush played tour guide for the king. 
He took Hussein by helicop­ter to Mount Vernon, Va., to visit the home of George Wash­ington overlooking the Potomac River. They returned to the capital on a yacht con­fiscated from drug merchants and now owned by the Navy. 
Standing alongside Hussein in a Rose Garden ceremony, Bush said, "The time has come to encourage fresh thinking, to avoid sterile debate and to focus on the difficult but criti­cal work of structuring a serious negotiating process. 
"His majesty committed Jor­dan to this task and I commit the United States to this task," Bush said. 
The administration said the next step was to develop Shamir's proposal for the 1.7 million Palestinians in the oc­cupied territories to elect rep­resentatives to negotiate with Israel on limited self­government. 
The United States has en­dorsed the proposal on the con­dition that the elections lead to negotiations on the final status of the territories. 
Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Ned Walker told Congress that the United States wants a timetable from Israel by July for the elections. 
But he said that "serious dif­ficulties" remain over what kind of elections would be held and which Palestinians would agree to take part. 
Walker said it should not matter to Israel whether can­didates are card-carrying members of the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
SENIORS 
WONDERING WHAT TO DO AFTER GRADUATION? THINKING ABOUT TAKING A YEAR OFF BEFORE LAW SCHOOL? OR MEDICAL SCHOOL? 
A CHICAGO LAW FIRM IS LOOKING FOR PEOPLE WITH AN INTEREST IN LAW OR WITH AN INTEREST IN THE MEDICAL FIELD. 
IF THIS SOUNDS INTERESTING TO YOU PLEASE SIGN UP AT THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT 
CENTER  OR  AT  COUNSELING  AND  CAREER  
DEVELOPMENT CENTER AT ST. MARY'S.  WE WILL  
BE  CONDUCTING  INTERVIEWS  AT  ST.  MARY'S  

AND NOTRE DAME MONDAY APRIL 24TH. 
Terrence M. Johnson For more information The Monadnock Bldgplease write or call: 
53 W. Jackson Blvd
• 

Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 922-4022 
TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL POSITIONS 
Indianapolis manufacturer may be hiring temporary production employees for the summer session. Houriy wage will be $7.50. Positions will require shift work and overtime. 
To apply, please call 
1-800-438-0041 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN 
Thursday, April 20, 1989 
Heading fore the golf cour_5e 
Mark Kiskarna takes advantage of the beautiful weather by playing a game of olf. 

SECURITY BEAT 
MON., APRIL 17 CRIME OF THE WEEK 3:00pm An employee of Notre Dame reported the theft of her gym bag and its ...------------, contents from the Ladies locker room at The crime of the week is a ACC sometime between 1:30 and 3:00the Jnumber of recent harassing pm. Total losses are estimated at S800. telephone calls made to resi­dence halls rooms on campus. Security reports that a num­TUES., APRIL 18 ber of students have received00 pm9:A resident of Keenan Hall re­calls in the early morninged the theft of his credit card from in­porthours, usually between 1 a.m.side his dorm room sometime within the and 4 a.m. and the caller may month. make obscene comments. Se­00 pm A Grace Hall resident reported 7:curity believes the calls arethe theft of his bike from the lobby of Grace originating from a campusHall sometime around 4:30 pm. Total loss residence hall room. Crimetimated at $199.00.is esStoppers wants to know who's making these calls and will pay a cash reward for infor­WED., APRIL 19 mation. Call 288-STOP if you 5:00 am Notre Dame Security reported have any information. You vandalism done to a vehicle belonging to won't be asked to give your a Holy Cross resident in the D-6 lot name. sometime between 4/18 and 4/19.  

 
• The heart of campus life. Previews, reviews, features, futures. <::!..) ..........................~!~~.......................... Tum to us every Friday.  

page 7
The Observer 





North's lawyer ends defense 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--Oliver North's lawyer, in an emo­tional final argument Wednes­day, portrayed the former White House aide as a sacrifi­cial lamb, a scapegoat and a hostage, and implored jurors in his trial to "set him free." 
"Oliver North never wanted to be a hero," said Brendan Sul­livan. "He just wants to go home." 
But prosecutor John Keker, having the last word, asked the jury to "return a verdict of guilty in each and every one of the 12 charges." 
With that, the 9 women and 3 men who will decide North's fate were sent home. They will return Thursday to begin their deliberations after instructions~ from U.S. district Judge Ger­hard Gesell. During deliberat­ion, the jury will be seques­tered for the first time since the Iran-Contra trial began. 
In his hour-long rebuttal, Keker said it had been an "un­happy, unpleasant, miserable criminal trial," and dismissed Sullivan's closing argument with a Shakesperian touch: "it was all sound and fury, signify­ing nothing." 
"You have heard a lot about courage at this trial," Keker said. "There's another kind of courage: courage, to admit when you are wrong, corage to admit personal responsibility, courage to admit guilt where appropriate. He <North) has not admitted any of those things; it's time for you to do 
·it for him." 
It was the end of two tough days for North, a former Marine lieutenant colonel whose power while he was at the National Security Council was substantial. His face paled and he busied himself with writing while Keker denounced him; he looked at the jury while Sullivan pleaded for him. 
"The government has not shown criminal behavior," Sul­livan said. "The man who held the lives of others in his hands, now puts his life into yours." The reference was to North's protecting names of people he dealt with by shredding or al­tering documents, which Sul­livan saw as "a reasonable thing to do." 
Keker had another explana­tion: "he was destroying docu­ments deliberately so they wouldn't find what he didn't want them to find." 
Mter the arguments, North's mood brightened and he joined his wife, who was speaking with a minister in the front row of spectators. 
Sullivan, choked with emo­
tion throughout much of his 
three-hour closing argument, 
mentioned President Reagan's telephone call on the day North was fired, a call in which the president called North "a na­tional hero," and also a postcard North got from then­Vice President Bush thanking him for his work. 

"All these people who went to Ollie North for help, where are they now?" Sullivan asked. 
Summing up North's defense in the trial's 12th week, Sul­livan said he had done his job well as a White House aide, fol­lowing superiors' orders to help the Nicaraguan rebels, then was thrown overboard as Reagan sought to escape poli­tical heat over the affair. 
Sullivan told the jury that North, who had worked to free American hostages in Lebanon, has been, in a sense, a hostage himself. 
"I ask you, on the evidence, to set him free," said Sullivan. 
In the spectator section, be­hind North at the defense table, were his wife and three of his four children. Betsy North had been at the trial before, but it was a first for the children. During a recess, North took their youngest daughter by the hand and walked with her down the courtroom corridor. 
North is charged with 12 cri­minal counts, including lying to Congress and the attorney gen­eral, illegally converting traveler's checks to his own use. 
Security tightened at animal labs 


Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--Security is being tightened at animal re­search laboratories at Indiana­Purdue of Indianapolis out of concern for possible protests by militant animal rights ac­tivists, officials say. 
Some activists protesting the treatment of laboratory animals have resorted to such tat!tics as bomb threats, break­ins at research facilities, theft of research animals and arson, says George Stookey, chair­man of the IUPUI animal care committee, which oversees wide-ranging studies involving thousands of animals. 
"These are really terrorist­type activities," he says. "We take it all very seriously." 
Stookey said lab security has been stepped up on the IUPUI campus, which includes the IU schools of medicine and den­tistry and the Purdue School of Science. 
The added precautions are in response an April 2 fire at the University of Arizona in Tuc­son. A group called Animal Liberation Front claimed re­sponsibility for the blaze, which caused more than $100,000 damage, and also stole 1,200 animals--including mice that had been infected, as part of an experiment, with a germ potentially fatal to humans. 
There have been no reports of threats or lab vandalism lo­cally, but IUPUI researchers are no longer assuming it won't ever happen. 
"Ten years ago it was kind of like it couldn't happen here," said Wendell McBurney, IUPUI's dean of research and sponsored programs. "I think that now people realize it could." 
The animal studies are con­tinuing, with as many as 22 mil­lion animals used in the United States for research, education or product testing. Perhaps 90 percent are rodents. But many species, including cats, dogs and monkeys, are used. At Purdue's West Lafayette campus, where about 7,000 re­search animals are housed, the ranks even include llamas. 

Last year, an animal rights movement mounted a massive letter-writing campaign that resulted in a Cornell University professor forfeiting a $530,000 grant to study the effects of barbiturate withdrawal on cats. The activists claimed the tests were inhumane and of little practical value. 
That special-interest groups could increasingly determine the course of medical research is of great concern in the sci­entific community, which can no longer afford to take the movement lightly. 
"What we're doing is ab­solutely proper, appropriate and necessary," Stookey said. "The problem as we see it is that our fellow citizens don't understand that; they don't know what we're doing." 
Most of the medical breakthroughs of this century-­from the polio vaccine to organ 
transplants--took place as a consequence of animal tests, and that to dispense with the experiments would devastate efforts to find cures for dis­eases such as cancer and AIDS, he said. 

Gray 
continued from page 1 
Other commencement activ­ities include the pinning cere­mony for nursing graduates to be held May 19 in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. A bac­calaureate mass will also be celebrated honoring all graduates on May 19 in Angela Athletic Facility. 





Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 20, 1989

pa~ a 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Cocc1a R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................ Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ..............•....... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Controller ............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the polic1es of the adm1n1strat1on of either mst1tut1on. The news is reported as accurately and ObJectively as poss1ble. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the majority of the followmg: Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef. Managing Ed1tor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Ed1tor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Editor, Photo Ed1tor. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of vary1ng opimons on campus. through 
letters. IS encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Abortion ruling needs reversal 
Throughout most of its history, the United States has had laws prohibiting abortion on demand. In 1973, the Supreme Court made history with its landmark Roe v. Wade decision, declaring a fetus was not a person and thus did not possess legal rights. The Mis­souri case now pending before the court provides it with the opportunity to review its previous decision. 
The legalization of abortion by the Supreme Court was both a national tragedy and a national disgrace. In the United States nearly one-third of all preg­nancies now end in abortion, and contrary to popular belief, no significant legal barriers exist to abortion at any time during the full nine months of pregnancy. 
It is time for abortion to end. Except in cases of rape or when the life of the mother is threatened, abortion is wrong and should not be legal. 
A fetus is a human life, a separate biological entity from its mother. With Roe v. Wade, however, the Supreme Court made the dubious assertion that this entity was not a person since it was not "capable of meaningful life.'' Thus it was not entitled to the same rights as a person outside a mother's womb. 
This decision gave human life a relative value. No longer would every human have a right to live simply because he or she exists. The absolute value of a human's right to live could be replaced by subjective determinations of whether that life was worth living. A human could then be discriminated against on the basis of his or her age and place of residence. 
No one would deny that some of the arguments for abortion raise valid concerns. A person's right to privacy, in this case, the privacy of a mother to do as she wishes with her body, is an important right and certainly worth protecting. 
One person's rights, however, stop where those of another start. The right of a mother to do as she wishes with her body does not include the right to destroy a life within her. 
DOONESBURY 
H~Y, TEENS! MR.. IT'58CCAJJ5c YOUR /JUT115 H{;l?.et ffl/3NIJS IJON'T &vtl<. IAJON[)tR IVANT YOU 7D MISS 11/HY 7HeRe5 50 OUT! f!JFTTING 
MUa-lmR HOOK&{) ON PRt$UR& OGAR&TT&5 70SMOKe? ISRJN-ANO 
5URPRJ51NGt,Y
I 'CA5Y! 
LETTERS 

Cruel prank at Theodore's reflects poorly on ND 
Dear Editor: 
The Kinsey Report appeared at Theodore's this past Satur­day night and, before the performers were a half hour into their show, something deeply tragic occurred. An ob­ject, presumably a launched waterballoon, was thrown through a window at the side of the stage and cut two mem­bers of the band, spreading glass all over the stage and most of the equipment. Thank­fully no one was seriously hurt, but the Kinsey Report felt too uncomfortable to continue. They could have been badly cut and were not about to chance going back on stage. 
The Kinsey Report came to entertain the students of Notre Dame and instead felt threatened by them. It's diffi­cult to believe that the sling­shotted balloon came through that window accidentally. One needed only to observe the lights and the noise emanating from the club to conclude that not only was there a perfor­mance going on, but also that there were probably many fans present. The intent of those re­sponsible for this act is clear-­to practice some dangerously childish prank. However, the exact motive is still unknown, though some of the people af­filiated with the band per­ceived the incident to be ra­cially provoked. 

Notre Dame, as a Catholic in­stitution, professes to be a loving community in the name of Christ. Yet, as one of the members of The Kinsey Report pointed out, "Actions speak louder than words." It is incon­ceivable that the Notre Dame philosophy fosters such actions in its students: a hypocrisy wherein we profess our beliefs as one thing, then turn around and do quite another. It is un­fortunate when incidents like this occur at Notre Dame be­cause there are a lot of positive aspects to this University. Regrettably, The Kinsey Report was not given the op­portunity to find them out. Per­haps, some day, they will be able to return and discover what these good things are. We must always remember that no matter how good we profess ourselves to be, there is always room for improvement. And it is our job to work together to attain what we profess. 
To Ralph, Donald, Ken, Ron, Lester, Matt, and the rest of The Kinsey Report, we extend our deepest apologies on behalf of the entire University with the sincere hope that someth­ing like this does not happen again. 
Mike Ford Grace Hall James Toth Cavanaugh Hall April17, 1989 


Americans need to attack apartheid at home first 
Dear Editor: 
Reading Tom Varnum's column on divestment inspired me to get "out of my little world" and get involved in this worn-out discussion of the evils of South Mrica. Actually, it was the self-righteous and ar­rogant tone of the column that made me respond. 
Mr. Varnum attempts to use logic to say that we are all guilty of social injustice in South Mrica. I for one am sure that I have never killed anyone, and I dare anyone to prove that my tuition dollars have, either. Mr. Varnum wrongly asserts that Notre Dame's investment in South Mrica makes the Uni­versity responsibie for the deaths caused by the Botha government. 
Mr. Varnum and the group that meets every Friday on the steps of the Administration Building are attempting to make a statement. However, just as my tuition dollars or 60­cent can of Coke has not killed anyone, neither has their weekly protest saved any lives. My point is this: Tom Varnum, or ten Tom Varnums for that matter, cannot change apar­theid; only the power players can. Once Notre Dame or any university divests, it ceases to be a power player. If we sell our stock in companies doing business in South Africa, some­one else will buy it. That's basic economics. As far as the black man in South Mrica is con­cerned, the ownership may have changed but the oppres­sion continues. What good does that do for Notre Dame? 

In order for Notre Dame and its anti-apartheid network to have any real effect, it must exert pressure on the South Mrican government. However, as Americans, we are in a poor bargaining position to do this. We attend a school with few black students, fewer black professors, and virtually no black administrators. We come from a nation where Martin Luther King's dream of social and racial equality remains but a dream. When we claim that South Mrica is an unjust soci­ety, we reek of hypocrisy. 
If Tom Varnum or any pro­divestment person really wants to help the plight of the black man or woman in South Mrica, he should reach out to the oppressed here first. When America can become a nation without its own social im­morality, then it can accuse other nations of being immoral. 
This Friday, then, don't stand on the steps of the Ad­ministration Building calling for divestment. Spend your af­ternoon at the Hope Rescue Mission or the homeless shel­ter. Spend it helping the admissions department find qualified minorities who want to attend Notre Dame. Spend it making this school and this country places of social and ra­cial and economic equality. Then, and only then, can we battle the rest of the world. 

Community members appreciate service effort 
Dear Editor: 
Our sincere thanks and ap­preciation to all who made the "Christmas in April" project such a huge success. The area never looked better. 
We particularly want to thank all the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who gave up a day to help in the clean-up-fix-up-paint-up. Also to be thanked are the Notre Dame administration folks, the 

business and professional people who gave of their time, and the staff of Neighborhood Housing Services for their many, many hours spent in co­ordinating the project. 
This is what "community" is all about. 
Yul Hubbard President Northeast 
Neighborhood Council 
April12, 1989 "-----------­

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'The safe way to double your money is to fold it over once and put it in your pocket. ' 
Frank Hubbard 






Accent
Thursday, April 20, 1989 page 9 
An Tostal update: St. Ed's Charity Carnival 
a new twist to tradition--having fun 
STEPHANIE SNYDER 
accent writer 
N
o matter how old we get, there is always a child inside each of us that has to be let loose every once in a while. 
This Sunday, April 23, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have the op­portunity to regress back to those simple but zany childish years at the first annual St. Edward's Charity Carnival. This event will take place from 12 noon to 11:00 p.m. at Stepan Center. 
Just like old times, the magical atmosphere of a car­nival will be recreated through such traditional favorites as wacky clowns and jugglers, lively music, game booths, and carnival goodies ranging from hot dogs to cotton candy. 
The most important treat from the Charity Carnival, however, is the magic that continues even when the music has stopped and the booths have been taken down. 
The proceeds from the car­nival will be sent to charities in South Bend giving younger, less fortunate children a chance to perhaps experience the magic of a carnival if not 


and helping others 
sing booth, and dart throwing where they can win prizes like boxer shorts, Notre Dame mugs, plastic Notre Dame footballs, (and kisses), to name a few. 
A special booth--a dunk tank--has been donated by St. Eds. Each dorm will receive one half hour in which they will try to entice the greatest amount of participants. The winning dorm will receive a plaque. Warning: rectors, be prepared to take a swim this Sunday. 
In addition, there will be a day-long raffle for autograp­hed basketballs and footballs. 
Other entertainment will include palm reading, a caricaturist, a tatooist (they will be temporary tatoos), and music entertainment 
sistant rector of St. Ed's, ex­from the Glee Club's Quad­plains, "There are two objec­raphonics, the Chorale, and tives to the Charity Carnival. even a bagpipe player. WVFI Our primary concern is to will also be providing music raise money for charity. We throughout the day and night. also, however, want to make this Antostal Sunday fun for "It's a great day to take Notre Dame and Saint Mary's advantage of, especially with students." your little brothers and 
sisters for South Bend," Santo 
This fun-filled Sunday will emphasizes. This year being be kicked off with an all-the first for the Charity Car-campus picnic. As the day nival Santo also explains, proceeds, students can "Participation is important. engage in activities such as The carnival can be as fun as cake walks, ring tosses, a kis-people make it." 

Top Ten Albums 
-
--' 

purchase a new pair of shoes 
or a better education. Thus, 
at the same time that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents are happily reliving the frolicking antics of ten-year­olds, with every carnival ticket they purchase they will also be helping other young kids. 
Twenty dorms from both campuses have enthusiastic­ally agreed to create their own unique booth for the car­nival. Tickets need~d in order to play these carnival booths will be sold at a separate 
booth for 25 cents each. 
Each dorm will then decide to charge a certain amount of tickets for participation in their booth. The extra money made off each booth, after subtracting construction costs, will be donated to charities in South Bend of each dorm's choice. 
Sam Santo, coordinator of the Charity Carnival and as-
Power and Glory a moving tale 
ROBYN SIMMONS Assistant Accent Editor 
S 
outhern Mexico during the anti-clerical purge of the 1930's is the setting for "The Power and the Glory," a powerful play about the strength of religion and the human spirit. This weekend in Washington Hall, the Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Department presents an adaptation of the Graham Greene novel of the same name, and the result is both moving and spellbinding. 
The innovative method in which the company interprets Greene's novel and Michael Murphy's performance as the "whiskey priest" on the run is what makes "The Power and the Glory" such a quality product. Murphy plays an alcoholic priest who is a fugi­tive of the revolutionary gov­ernment, hiding out in the local villages. Murphy's char­acter is physically and spiri­tually exhausted, and Murphy's haggard appear­ance is quite convincing. 
BUZZ MC FLATTOP 
Murphy's character is both dispicable and admirable. Not only is the priest an irrespon­sible drinker, but he is the father of an illegitimate child. As a priest he feels useless and admits "I can't absolve myself.'' 
A ruthless Lieutenant, played by Duane J. DiFranco, relentlessly pursues the priest and in the process kills a total of 12 hostages in various villages for refusing to divulge the priest's whereabouts. In the face of such a threat to his life and his fear of capture, the priest finds himself lured constantly by the needs of other people who ask him to say Mass, hear a confession, or to bless them. 
Despite the fact that the viUagers the priest comes across want him to go away, no one will turn him in. Mter another hostage is taken away, the priest exclaims, "I did my best. It's your job to give me up. What do you ex­pect of me? It's my job not to get caught." Later on, he tells prisoners in a jail cell about the reward for his cap­ture and asks them, "Will nobody be my Judas?" 
When the play opens, the members of the cast recite passages of Greene's novel in the form of a narrative in­stead of going directly into the dialogue. The various members of the cast are spread throughout the theatre, and the actors use the passages from the novel to set the scene as they walk towards the stage. Through­out the play, new scenes are marked by the actors narrat­ing events followed by a return to the normal dialogue. 
"The Power and the Glory" deals with political oppres­sion, martyrdom, but most importantly, the sense of duty that a priest feels towards his fellow human beings and his God. The performance and its message will leave the audiences thinking about what they saw long after the curtain comes down. 

-----~-----­
page 10 The Observer Thursday, April 20, 1989
-
Mazzi li leads Mets over Phils 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK --Lee Mazzili's three-run pinch homer off Philadelphia relief ace Steve Bedrosian with two out in the eighth inning gave the New York Mets a 4-2 victory over the Phillies on Wednesday night. 
The Phillies had taken a 2-1 lead in the top of the eighth on Ricky Jordan's run-scoring single. 
Kevin McReynolds lined out a two-out double off Jeff Parrett in the bottom of the eighth and Bedrosian came on and walked Howard Johnson. 
Mazzilii, pinch hitting for Barry Lyons, then homered to right field. It was his fifth career pinch homer --four com­ing with the Mets. 
Kevin Elster of the Mets set a major league record when he played his 73rd consecutive game at shortstop without making an error. 
Padres 4, Giants 3 
Benito Santiago hit a two-run homer and drove in another run with a single Wednesday as the San Diego Padres beat the San Francisco Giants 4-3. 
Eric Show, 3-1, allowed four hits and three runs in 7 2-3 in­nings to pick up the win. Mark Dav: .ed up to gain his seventh sc. ·e in seven appear­ances. 
Giants reliever Craig Lef­der in the ninth to extend his streak of consecutive outs to 29. The major league record is 41, set by Jim Barr of the Giants in 1972. 
Pirates 7, Cardinals 5 
Rafael Belliard and Tom Prince each drove in two runs and Pittsburgh capitalized on an Ozzie Smith error for the second straight day as the Pirates beat the St. Louis Car­dinals 7-5 Wednesday. 
Smith, considered the best fielding shortstop in the game, made a throwing error during a three-run rally by Pittsburgh in the fourth inning. On Tues­day night, the Pirates scored the winning runs when Smith booted a grounder with two outs in the ninth. 
Expos 3, Cubs 2 
Tom Foley and Nelson San­tovenia hit consecutive home runs in the fourth inning Wed­nesday night, leading the Montreal Expos past the Chicago Cubs 3-2 and a sweep of the three-game series. 
The Cubs entered the the se­ries with a seven-game winning streak--their longest since June 1983. 
Dennis Martinez, 1-0, al­lowed eight hits in eight-plus in­nings for his first victory since 
ferts retired the Padres in or-Aug. 24. 
Classifieds 
Tigers 3, Twins 2 
Matt Nokes' two-run ninth­inning homer spoiled winless Frank Viola's $7.9 million birthday party Wednesday night and lifted the Detroit Tigers to a 3-2 victory over the Minnesota Twins. 
Viola, 0-3, the 1988 American League Cy Young award win­ner, had been involved in bitter contract negotiations for more than two weeks before agree­ing to a three-year, $7.9 million deal earlier Wednesday, his 29th birthday. 
Winner Doyle Alexander, 2-0, allowed six hits in eight innings and Guillermo Hernandez pitched a perfect ninth, strik­ing out two, for his second SC;lVe. 
Athletics 7, Mariners 5 
Dave Stewart improved to 4-0 and Terry Steinbach drove in three runs, leading the Oakland Athletics past the Seattle Mariners 7-5 on Wednesday. 
Stewart owns the major league's best record after yielding four runs and eight hits. He struck out one and walked two in six innings before Greg Cadaret relieved. Last April, Stewart was 6-0 and has won his last 13 decisions in April. 


The Montreal Expos may enjoy knocking each other around, but lately they've been concentrating their efforts on beating up the Chicago Cubs. The Expos won again Wednesday 3-2. 
Viola signs contract 
Associated Press $1.55 million salary, $1.6 mil­lion in 1990 and $2.8 million in 
MINNEAPOLIS --Frank 1991. Viola, the 1988 American Viola, who turned 29 Wednes­League Cy Young Award win­day, was 0-2 this season with a ner, agreed to a $7.9 million 6.88 ERA after three starts, a deal with the Minnesota Twins big letdown from his 24-7, 2.64 Wednesday after more than season of 1988. two weeks of acrimonious The deal is essentially the negotiations. same as the one that made the 
The three-year contract will Los Angeles Dodgers' Orel give Viola $3.5 million as a Hershiser the game's highest­renegotiation of this year's paid player. 
The Observer accepts classif1eds every business day from 10 a m unt1l 4 p.m at the Notre Dame off1ce. 314 LaFortune. and from 12·30 until3 p.m at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next· day class•fleds 1s 3 p.m All classif•eds must be prepa1d. The cl1arge is 10 cents p-er f1ve characters per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 NEED MONEY? Sell your textbool<s for CASH II Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342  '----_FO_R_R_EN_T~' NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 28Hi389, 683-8889. A'Pr:..2...PEoPL'e..G'ooo..NEiG'iisaR·· HOOD 288.()95!¥.289-2331 MALE GRADUATES FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272­0615.  IL..--PE_RSON__ALS___, hi ag SCAP ..... The Word of the Future!!! Use itNOW!I SUMMER JOBS ALL LANO.WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID  ················. Attn.: NOVICE CREW MEMBERS Thank you for making the Crew Classic so enjoyable--you really made my day. I appreCiate all your efforts, and wish you much success in Madison. Thanks again for making it all worth ~II! Love, MK .......... HAPPY BIRTHDAY All.. you're finally 21· and guess what that means... SOME­BODY'S GONNA BE LOSTII!II!! LOVE, BOB  STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES Guitar Duo THURS. NITE at CLUB·23 THURS. NITE at CLUB 23 STONE PUPPIES  EVER BEEN TO AUSTRAILIA?I If not, come see DOREEN BROWN at 6:30 in Am 105 in the Science bldg. at SMC courtesy of SMC Biology Club .. ............................................. . ERIN AND LARRY ARE SO CUTE I COULD SPIT! --CARA BEAR Tara Peyton-Keep up the good work! SO CAL CLUB MEMBERS BAGGAGE TRUCK RESERVATIONS  
CAU 1-8~3-8373.  CALL JENNIFER 3496  
RESUMES. reports, etc. typed on a computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­vice anytime at 299-«163. EXPERT TYPING St:RVfCE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS VOCATION COUNSELING for the ONE· YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and other ministry opportunities. Contact: FR. JOHN CONLEY, CSC BOX 541 NOTRE DAME 239-6385  WANTED GREAT PART-TIME OPPORTUNITY GAIN EXPERIENCE AND EARN MONEY by working on Fortune 500 Compenles' marketing programs on campus. 2-4 FLEXIBLE hours each week. Applications being taken for Im­mediate and Fall 89 openings. Call:  EYE CONTACT BRAND NAME LENSES START AT 19.95 EA. 1-800­255-2020. I need a ride to IU for Little 500 weekend. Can leave anytime, will pay for gas. Please call Kathleen at # 2666. THANK YOU ST. JUDE  ZETO AND THE HEAT-ONS FRIDAY NIGHT ZETO AND THE HEAT·ONS FRIDAY NIGHT ZETO AND THE HEAT·ONS FRIDAY NIGHT EXCELLENT ROCK AND ROLL MUSIC FRIDAY NIGHT AT THEODORE'S!! I BAND STARTS AT 10:00 DON'T MISS THEMIII ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A GOOD  Don't miss the CHARITY CARNIVAL Palm Reading, Games, Professional Tat­toos, Music, Dancers, Food and even more Games. Stepan Center, from noon to 11 p.m. This Sunday, April 23 ..................... ............................... CALCUTIA RAIN Friday Night· 10 p.m. at McMCORMICK'S GET WET Live!lllll!l!  LIFE IS ELSEWHERE Tonight at MURPHY'S (lonmerly Chip's) ' The best old and new Acoustic Rock bob dylan•tracy chapman'rem neil young•the dead•1o,ooo Maniacs Jimi Hendrix"Cat Stevens•&more life is elsewhere tonight  
Pray to St. Jude \ LOST/FOUND I  1-800-821-1543. GOVERNM"NT JOBSt NOW HIRING THIS AREAl $10,213 TO $75,473. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CAU (REFUNOABI,.E) 1-315-733-6062 EXT F-2382H.  CUT THE ROSE BEFORE IT GROWS SMC FRESHMAN LOOK FOR THE FRESH. FORMAL PICTURES IN THE GAME ROOM II  LAUGH? DO YOU APPRECIATE QUALITY ENTERTAINMENT FREE OF CHARGE? THEN DO NOT MISS COMEDIAN TOM ANZALONE TONIGHT AT THEODORE'S 10:00  CALCUTT A RAIN CALCUTIA RAIN CALCUTTA RAIN  .............. SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $279 each way on discounted scheduled airlines to Europe from Chicago. Call (BOO) 325-2222.  
-­ LOST: GOLD ROPE NECKLACE ON FRI. 4/7. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL X1326. LOST SUNDAY 4116: BROWN LIEAT· HER CASE WI READING GLASSES, EITHER AT STEPAN CTR., STEPAN COURTS OR SOUTH DINING HALL I CANNOT READ ANYMORE ! HELP!!I PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT X4079 IF FOUND. DO YOU HAVE A BLUE & WHITE WIL· SON GOLF UMBRELLA? IF YOU PICKED IT UP FROM NIEWLAND 127 BETWEEN 9:15 AND 10:45 ON THURSDAY, PLEASE RETURN IT TO ITS OWNER. X4927 PLEASE FOUND: ONE SET OF DORM KEYS. CAU 4328 TO IDENTIFY. LOST LIGHT PURPLE WOVEN STRAW BAG CONTAINS GREEK DICTIONARY, GRAMMAR BOOK, ~NO NOTES IF FOUND, CAU MAURA, 1759.  NEED ROOMMATE FOR SUMMER. 4418 OR 847 PE. SLOAN. WANTED: FEMALE NON SMOKER TO SHARE RESIDENCE, PRIVATE ROOM. DEPOSIT $150. 10 MIN. DRIVE TO NOTRE DAME. 234-6294. FOR SALE FLY HOME TO CT · 1 way after 512 t>b before 429-Kevin Q 271-9311 Need a car? '79 Datsun 21 O,auto.,good condl­tlon,new bettery.$550. Going to Europe:muat saUl Katy # 3490. ································································ TICKETS $$$ GRAD TIX WANTED $$$ Call Michelle at 3196  Ride needed to Cots., OH, leaving p.m. Apr. 28, returning Apr. 30 Pat x2036 Anyone headed to the Milwaukee area this weekend (41.!1-423) that can take a rider? Will share the usual. Chris # 2923 need ride to Miami of Ohio, weekend of 41.!1 Bill# 1837 COME TO THE ST ED'S CARNIVAL ON APRIL 23 AT STEPAN NOON TO 11 :00 PM YOU'LL HAVE A GREAT TtMEI BEST OF AU, IT'S FOR CHARITY II I NEED GRAD TIXI CALL MIKE # 1558 HAPPY BIRTHDAY JULIE HASKINSIII We have just 6 birthday wishes for you on your 19th 8-Day­FAT MORBID STUPID FOOD LIQUOR PRINTING Love Nancy & Georgie  For ODN One World shirts call 3193 ................................................................ IRISH MUSIC WITH JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS FRIDAY 8-? IT ALL DEPENDS ON HOW MUCH FUN WE'RE HAVING AT CLUB 23 Having a bad week? Remember: LIFE IS ELSEWHERE tonight at Murphy's ................................................................ M B too bad the article wasn't as good as your strut ......................................... ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS COSTELLO If u've decided not 2 go C Elvia Costello this Set. I'd like to buy your tlx. Call 3719. Hay TODD HARDIMAN! HOW'D U GUESS I WAS PUTTING THIS  Wet at McCORMICK'S Friday Night HAPPY BIRTHDAY CARRIE I LOVE YOU, TODD The Stone Puppies Tonight Club 23!11 Stone Puppies Stone Puppies Stone Puppies Club 23 Tonight! II ................................................................ Anyone going to South carolina or S out­hem georgia i need aride home. I will share expenses. I can leave on May 12 after 2. If you can give me a ride call Ed at 272-7398. IV'VE GOT GEORGIA ON MY MIND, BUT I CAN'T GET ALL MY THINGS HOME!!! If you're going through the At­ SCHMOO... NO, NO ONE FORGOT YOUR 20TH BIRTHDAY. SORRY THIS IS LATE. YOU KNOW YOUR 2SOUTH SCAPPY BUDDIES LOVE VA ANYWAY!!I! HAPPY BIRTHDAY AND HAVE A GREAT YEAR! THE FAMILY OF JOELLA SUE YOUNG WISHES TO THANK EVERYONE FOR THEIR SUPPORT IN OUR TIME OF NEED. SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS NEW JOB OPENINGS RECEIVED IN LAST WEEK. PICK UP HANDOUT IN CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES FOR DETAILS. SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS NEW JOB OPENINGS RECEIVED IN LAST WEEK. PICK UP HANDOUT IN CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES FOR DETAILS. SENIORS  
FOUND Round, gold-colored earring Theodore's on Saturday, April Come to Room 101 !ltenlord Hall.  In 8.  • • • WANTED-1 grad tix, will pey $$Call # 3183 •••  SUNDAY! The St. Edward's Hall CHARITY CARNIVAL Dunk Tank, Kissing Booth, Ring Toss Basketball Shoot, Palm Reading,  IN FOR U? ................................................................ TRACY, HAPPY BIRTHDAY. JUST BE· CAUSE ITS A DAY LATE DOESN'T  lanta area, PLEASE give me a call at 284-4260. Thanks Cathl Love, Alicia  SENIORS SENIORS NEW JOB OPENINGS RECEIVED IN LAST WEEK. PICK UP HANDOUT IN CAREER  
ELVIS COSTELLO  Clowns, Jugglers, and morel  MEAN I CARE ANY LESS.· TOM  TO THE PLUMBERS: Jim, Kevin, Bob,  AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR  
ELVIS COSTELLO  ................................................................  Brian & Dave-Nice effort. You should  DETAILS.  
Need Ride To IU This Weekend For Little  HOW CAN YOU TELL IF YOU'RE IN  have called more fouls. From the only  
500. Will Share Gas. Call Jerry At x1697  ELVIS COSTELLO  TO THE HOT BABE  BED WITH A GIRAFFE?  female that heckled!  SENIORS  
I WILL PAY FOR YOUR COSTELLO  He's -ring a G on his pajamas  SENIORS  
LOS'!'  CONCERT TIX AND YOUR TROUBLE  Be a OJ for  SENIORS  
GREEK BOOKS AND NOTES IN A  PLEASE SELL ME YOUR TIX--·1 NEED  THEODORE's  Happy Birthday Amalial  NEW JOB OPENINGS RECEIVED IN  
PURPLE WOVEN STRAW BAG. IF FOUND, PLEASE CAU MAURA AT 1759. I REALLY NEED MY NOTES.  2  CALL 3719  Apply  et  Stud. Actlvftfes MON. APR. 24  Oflfce  by  REASONS WHY I IGNORE YOU: 1. you hang around with stupid wome  Make it a good one.  BB  LAST WEEK. PICK UP HANDOUT IN CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES FOR DETAILS.  

Thursday, April 20, 1989 page 11
The Observer 
ND track splits for weekend 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
Once again, the Notre Dame track team will split up this weekend and attend two differ­ent track meets in Indianapolis and Kansas. The top relay teams and middle distance run­ners will travel to Lawrence for the prestigious Kansas Relays, while most of the other individ­ual competitors will travel downstate for the Indiana In­tercollegiate Meet. 
This is the first time in a few years the Irish have partici­pated in the Kansas Relays. Recently, the meet has not been as competitive, but this year the meet organizers recruited more of the top teams which should make the meet stronger again. 
Notre Dame will send the sprint medley relay team and the 4x1 mile relay team to Kansas with high hopes. 
"Both of our relay teams should fair well this weekend," said Head Coach Joe Piane. "They should challenge for the top three in their races." 
The sprint medley relay team consists of Richard Culp, Xavier Victor, Yan Searcy, and Brian Peppard, The experi­enced 4x1 mile team includes Ryan Cahill, Mike Rogan, Tom O'Rourke, and Ron Markezich. Markezich, who recently qualified for the National meet in the 10,000 meter race, will anchor the relay team with a much shorter distance than he is accustomed to. 
"The shorter distance and faster pace should do worlds of good for Markezich,'' stated Piane. 
Markezich agrees with Piane that it will help him running such a short distance. 
"It will definitely help my speed in the long run," said Irish co-captain Markezich. "The quicker pace should prepare me for the competition in the 10,000 meters." 
Other athletes traveling to Kansas are Glen Watson in the uo meter high hurdles, John Cole in the high jump, and David Warth, Mark Lavery, Kevin Whelan, and Brian Pep­pard in the 800 meters. Relay members Searcy and Culp will also compete in the 400 meter 
Wish your friends a happy 
birthday with Observer jMt advertising. jMtC Call 239-6900 C 
Happy 20th Birthday, 
Michael Kolar 
Love, your family 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents The Power and the Glory by Dennis Cannan and Pierre Bost Adapted from the novel by Graham Greene 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Setting and Lighting designed by Willard Neuert Costumes designed by Richard E. Donnelly 
Washington Hall 

Wednesday, April19-8:10pm Thursday, April20-8:10pm Friday, April21-8:10pm Saturday, April22-8:10pm Sunday, April23-3:10pm 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 •students/Senior Citizens $4 *(Wed., Thurs., Sun. only) 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office Weekdays, 12:15pm to 6pm 
MasterCard/Visa orders call239-5957 
race. Dan Garrett will abstain due to injury. 
"This meet gives us a chance to run some relays we can't usually run," said Piane. "It also gives our individuals a chance to improve their time or height in a non-qualifying situation." 
The Indiana Intercollegiate meet will also offer great com­petition for the Irish. This, being a qualifying meet, is very important for many Notre Dame athletes. 
John Stewart will be looking to qualify for the IC4A javelin competition, while numerous others will look to qualify in their individual events. Bill Hobbs will run a 10,000 while Shawn Schneider will run his first ever 5000 meter race. Jeff Smith, who has already qualified, will compete in the long jump and Scott Vanden­berg will run the quarter mile. 
Last year the Irish had eight athletes place in the top three in Indianapolis. This year may not be as successful since many of the top runners are going to Kansas. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

The Blue-Gold Game will be held Saturday, April 22, at 1:30 p.m. in the stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at gates 15 and 16. Spouses and children must have a ticket. General admission tickets for the public are available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday at gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Adult tickets are $3 in advance and $4 game day. Youth tickets are $1.50 in advance and $2 the day of the game. -The Obse,rver · 
In NBA action Wednesday, Phoenix outshined the Maimi Heat 117-91, Detroit shut down the Pacers 115-105, the Atlanta Hawks beat Milwaukee 100-92, and Houston beat San Antonio 99-84. -Associated Press 
Bookstore Basketball is looking for referees to start on Monday, April24. The pay has increased to $8 per game. Call Jeff at x1504 for more information. -The Observer 
The Rowing Club will have a meeting Thursday, April20, at 7~30 p.m. in 343 Nieuwland to pay for Madison. 
-The Observer 

Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through . Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Carlton quits after three-year struggle 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA --Steve Carlton gave up a three-year struggle to remain in the game he loved, telling the baseball world Wednesda'y he is through pitching after repeated com­eback attempts. 
The 44-year-old "Lefty" wouldn't use the word "retire­ment" in the announcement that came almost a year since his last release. 
Even this spring, Carlton -­coming off September surgery to remove eight chips from his pitching shoulder --still was trying to show major league teams that he had the same fire that earned him four Cy Young awards. 
"My arm hasn't rehabilitated the way I had hoped," Carlton said in a brief statement issued by the Philadelphia Phillies, for whom he recorded 241 of his 329 career wins. 
"I'm still experiencing some pain and I've decided I no 

"HAPPY GOLDEN BIRTHDAY" "PATTY GREIPP" 
Love, Mom, Dad 
Jeff, Buster 
and "Chip" 

Fine Irish Imports 


longer would be active as a player." 
The Phillies said they would retire his uniform number, 32, in a July 29 ceremony. 
Club President Bill Giles said Carlton is "not officially retir­ing, according .to him, but we're going to honor him anyway." 
Giles said that if someone wanted Carlton, he might try another comeback. 
"But he feels it's not going to happen, at least in the major leagues, although you never 
know when somebody's going to call," said Giles. 
· He said Carlton apparently "still has a glimmer of hope that Japan might be inter­ested." National League spokes­woman Katy Feeney said Carlton remains technically a free agent, because he was released by his last club, the Minnesota Twins. She said he would not go on a voluntary retired list since he belongs to no club. Giles said he thinks Carlton really is finished pitching this time. "In fact I tried to talk him into retiring two or three years ago," Giles said. "But he thou ht he could still pitch." 


Specialists in Irish Claddagh Jewelry, Irish Music, Videos, Glassware, Heraldic Items, Books, Sweatshirts, Baby Gifts, Windsocks, Key Chains, Sweaters, Food, Crafts, Irish Linen, Perfumes. Call in and see our Little Irish Superstore at: Univ. Park Mall 
272-6757 

-~~-~--­
page 12 The Observer Thursday, April 20, 1989 
Irish sweep SW Michigan; Linn shuts down Roadrunners 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer The Notre Dame softball team was not very neighborly Wednesday when it played host to Southwest Michigan College. The Irish whipped the Roadrunners in both ends of a doubleheader, 6-0 and 9-1. Notre Dame raised its record to 22-15 with the two wins over SW Michigan. In the first game, Megan Fay led a ten hit attack with an RBI double in the first inning for the only run the Irish would need. Fay later scored a run in the third inning when the Irish added two runs to their total. In the bottom of the sixth in­ ning, Dawn Boulac, who finished the game a perfect 3 for 3 at the plate, led off with a double and scored. Mary Verardi also scored for the last Irish run. Freshman Missy Linn al­lowed only three hits in seven innings to improve her record to 17-11. Linn struck out four and walked only one en route to the victory. Notre Dame wasted no time scoring in the second game. Once again it was Fay who started the team off when she reached for a high pitch and drove it up the middle to score Ruth Kmak in the first inning. The Irish exploded for seven runs on seven hits in the bottom  of the second to put the game out of reach. The big hit for the team was provided by Kmak, who launched a single to right field with the bases loaded, scoring three runs. Later, two other players scored on Roadrunner miscues. Dawn Boulac scored in the bottom of the sixth to bring the Irish total to nine runs. SW Michigan scored its lone run in the top of the seventh. Barb Mooney evened her record at 4-4 with a complete game performance. Mooney scattered eight hits and al­lowed only one run, unearned. Irish head coach Brian Boulac was pleased with her effort. "For Barb to pitch a full  game is really great," he said.· "She's pitching more and more each time, and she's getting stronger. She's made a big im­provement." In the second game, the Notre Dame defense was at its best. The Irish turned three double plays in the game, a team record. Mary Verardi was particularly outstanding, making three stellar catches in left field. "We played really well defensively," Boulac noted. "Everyone got in the games and I'm pleased with the way they responded." Both games were played without umpires. Coaches from each team substituted for urn­ pires by mutual agreement. Notre Dame will face a tough challenge this weekend when it participates in the DePaul Tournament in Chicago. The Irish will open play on Friday with a game against Wisconsin­Green Bay, a team that has already beaten the Irish twice this past season. Also on Friday Notre Dame will play Loyola an hour after the Wisconsin game. Loyola holds a less than respectable record of 1-29, and Notre Dame was responsible for three of those losses. Notre Dame will continue play on Saturday with a game against the host team, DePaul, which has a 25-12 record.  
Irish continued from page 16 The Irish finally got a hold of Dan Jones, the third Northwes­tern pitcher, in the fifth inning. Jones allowed six consecutive hits, including a triple by Coss, as Notre Dame took the lead for good. Coss' hit knocked in Moshier and Pat Eilers with the game-tying runs. Pat Pesavento's single drove home Coss with the eventual winning run. Northwestern pitchers hit three Notre Dame batters in the inning, and the Irish scored three more times in the fifth to take a 7-3 lead. Notre Dame almost lost that lead in the next inning. Mter hitting a single, Northwes­tern's Ryan Oetting attempted to steal second. Martinez's  throw beat the runner, but Mos­hier misplayed the tag and al­lowed Oetting to reach second. Moshier's error led to three un­earned runs for the Wildcats. The Irish came back with three runs of their own in the last half of the sixth. Dan Pel­tier scored Coss with a double to give Notre Dame an 8-6lead. Northwestern then elected to intentionally walk James Sass and pitch to Binkiewicz. The freshman first baseman thanked the Wildcats by driving in Counsell and Peltier with a single. Northwestern scored two more runs in the ninth, but sophomore reliever Mike Cof­fey came on to save Livorsi's third win of the season. Coffey, who pitched one scoreless in­ ning, has seven saves with a 5-0 record. EXTRA BASES: Peltier finished with a single and double, extending his hitting streak to 15 games... Northwestern used a total of seven pitchers in the game. None of them pitched more than 2 1-3 innings...The high-scoring game and numerous pitching changes resulted in a game that lasted three hours and ten minutes...Notre Dame has scored a total of 32 runs in its last two games...Tri-State, an NAIA school, lost 4-3 to Indiana earlier this season. Indiana defeated Notre Dame 10-0 last month...Notre Dame now is 11-0 in games decided by three runs or less...The Irish have won 16 of their last 18 games, including 12 of their last 13.  ~******************* ~ Happy 21st Birthday ~ ~ Terri (April 20) ~ iC b OlJ 0 iC iC ~ iC~ •. ~ iC iCiC Lots of Love, iC ~ Mom, Dad, Joey ~ iC & Christina iC ******************** WE ALWAYS NEED LEADERS  
MARIE  
De Notre Dame...  
Adieu!  
A Belgique...  
Bon Voyage!  
EtJoyeux Anniversaire  
With love  
from Colorado.  


---~---~---~----------------­
Thursday, April 20, 1989 The Observer 

...and still more Bookstore action 

... 
The Observer I Matt Mittino 
Bookstore Basketball action continues today on all the courts, but life comes to a halt at Notre Dame beginning Friday as the tourney takes the weekend off to prepare for the final rounds. 
Bookstore Tournament Bookstore 9 Stepan 3 
4:00 -Murphy's Bar over Howies Heroes by 12 4:00 -Lenny's American Grill vs. Amadeus... 
Wednesday's Results 4:45-Fugtttve Guys ... over Air Satan... by 12 4:45 -The Fellas vs. Air Borden & The Milkmen Stepan 1 5:30-Minahoonies over Pullin' Down ... by 13 5:30 -The Good, The Bad ... vs. Dr. Ruth's Soldiers ... 
4:00 -Rodon, Sky... over We're Not Cheeseheads 6:15-All The President's ... over Shark... by 17 6:15 -The Big Dudes vs. 5 Nondescript Guys by 4 
4:45 -2 Third Stringer ... over Mike & The Minstrel Cycles by 7 Bookstore 10 Stepan 4
5:30 -Touch-n-Go over Betty's SC by 9 4:00 -The Brickmasons over The Staggering Deficits 4:00 -Medicine in Motion ... vs. Supreme Darks6:15 -Naked Gunners over Here It Is by 7 by 9 4:45 -The Violators vs. The Cotton ClubStepan 2 4:45 -Chestnut Mousse ... over 4 Lung Cookies ... 
5:30 -Big Ball Boys vs. Small But Huge
4:00 -Groundskeepers of Busch Gardens over Hey by 7 6:15 -G-Men vs. SwishKbobElmer... by 5 5:30 -Whiskey Richard over 5 Guys Who Signed 
4:45 -Khomeni's Bounty Hunters over Wally, Eddy, Up Late by 9 Ward by 16 4:45 -Rainmakers over Just Do It by 8 
5:30 -5 Guys Who Play Hard over Dick Enberg, Dick Vitale ... by 11 6:15-Unseeded Fertilizers over Here's To You by SMC 1 Stepan 5 
3 4:00 -Nads over Conscious Party by 4 • 4:00 -Murphy's Men vs. Not A Chance in Hell 5:00-Four Freshmen ... over Tony's Tigers by 16 4:45 -Ripper... vs. Nasty Norm... SMC2 5:30 -Air Check & Ground Support vs. Act 
4:00-Traveling Sleighbells over The Female Faltos Sanctorum Stepan 3 
by 21 . 6:15-Fighting Kernels vs. Jerry's Kids 4:00 -One Jerk... over Dawn Is Smooth by 7 
5:00 -Secret Service over We Score... by 14 
4:45 -As-Salaam ... over Vanilla Thunder by 8 
SMC3 

5:30 -Ministers of Pain over Rubber Cement by 13 
4:00 -Ryan's Rabble Rousers over 5 Under 5'5" by6:15-Bennet's Buffet... over Improbable Cause by 
13 13 
5:00 -5 Girts ... over We Wanna Score by 11 Stepan 6 Stepan 4 
SMC 4 4:00 -The Mephistophelian Meatuses vs. We're Bet­
4:00 
-5 Guys Who Get... over We Can't Play . by 

4:00 
-We've Got lt... over The Hard Liquors by 18 ter. .. 17 


5:00 -3 of Marv's over Just So We ... by forfeit -4:45 -Jeff & 4 Skins vs. Adwork's Allstars 
4:45 -Snark over Swish. Swish, Brick by 10 5:30 -The Rectifiers vs. CJ's Pub 
5:30 -Shooting Blanks over Sport Death by 5 
6:15-Don't Skip Shoot vs. 4 Troopers ... 6:15-Digger Stiffed Me ... over Take It to the Crib 
by 10 
Bookstora 9 Stepan 5 Stepan 1 
Thursday's Games 

4:00 -Corporate Raiders vs. The KeHic Savants 
4:45 -4 Men & the Red Headed... vs. WNDU
4:00 -Nice but Nasty over Bald-Headed ... by 3 4:00 -Clockwork Orange vs. Maureen McFadden's 5:30 -It's All About Disn'Cous vs. 4 Guys Who Rll... 
4:45 -Train & the Fuzz ... over Sty & the Family... A Fabulous Babe 6:15-No I in Team vs. to be determinedby 7 4:45 -Malicious Prostitution vs. The Masters Dis­
5:30 -Eddie & the Cruisers over Hickory by 8 ciples... 
6:15-Fire One over Banana. Cucumber... by 2 5:30 -Kent's Getting Married vs. Harvey Firestein ... Stepan 6 6:15-Mother Goose vs. Lotuses Bookstore 10 
4:00 -Ebert & The Rockers vs. 4 Guys Who Like
4:00 -Gurus over 'Nuff Said by 7 Stepan 2 Girls ... 
4:45 -Hoopsters from Hell over We Got the Tools ... 4:00 -Love Handles vs. Get Off Our Tips 4:45 -Duke & The Dongs vs. A Really Bad ·eough by 10 4:45 -The Second Book ... vs. Teetles... 
5:30 -MBA's vs. Barry Switzer, AI Capone...
5:30 -Smell the Glove over Hoops not Chicks by 3 5:30 -Gauchos vs. Dr. Love & the Passion Quartet 
6:15 -Killer Bees over The Morris InnKeepers by 6:15-So Much Like The Beetles vs. Coach's 6:15 -EZ Cats vs. The Faculty Jokes 
Canadiens get by Bruins 
Associated Press and swept the puck past "We hit our shots a the key Lemelin's glove, giving the
Book 
times of the game but our 2-3 MONTREAL --Bobby Smith Canadiens their third overtime continued from page 16 zone defense was the key to the scored on a backhander at victory in six playoff games 
12:24 of overtime Wednesday this year.
Rainmakers, who are spon­game." 
night, giving the Montreal The Canadiens, seekingsored by IBM, were paced by Canadiens a 3-2 victory over revenge for last year's five­Will Ferrence's eleven bas­The Rainmakers shot an uni­
the Boston Bruins and a two­game loss to the Bruins in the kets. IBM has donated a com­mpressive 37 percent from the game lead in the Adams Divi­Adams final, won the first twoputer to the Bookstore tourna­asphalt but got an outstanding 
sion finals. games at home. Games 3 and ment for on-site use on Stepan all-around performance from Smith came out from behind 4 will be played in BostonCourts. "The game was Joe Hippler. Hippler shot 5-13 the net to the right of Friday and Sunday. 
physical inside and it got a little from the floor and pulled down goaltender Reggie Lemelin Montreal goaltender Patrick nasty at times,'' said Ferrence. six rebounds. 
11 
~need someone with the ronfidenreofasw_:geon,the dedicationoC amarathonerandthe rourage ofan explorer. 
We nttd a Peace Corp' volunteer Call us a!\·800·424·8580, Ext. 9~ 
PeaceCorps. 
n.r~p:.,a~111'¥n"low 
JORDAN 

New & Used Cars & Trucks · 

Professors,
t'ORD 
Ext. 667 

lOYOlA
~0~\) 
Employees

VOLVO 
\!\~~cu~'{ 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus

~Q f\£)ufl.\'C. 
?.•~a:·Ja•:Je~r~soN n 1evard
aou Phone (219) 259-1981
Q f"\t"" ~-·-E!khan Area CaU (219) 67•·9926 
46545
l?~<:>(;)~fl-~ ~----~~~------~ln~d~~n~a_T~~-IF~rH~(~~)-45~1~~=·~··11 
$400 REBATE* 
Largest Ford Inventory 
#1 Selling Ford Dealer in Country 
• 
Pool, Clubhouse • locked intercom entrances 

• 
Washer & dryer in each apartment • flexible leases


For further information, call Elizabeth 
( also -furnished executive suites ) 

* This is in addition to any present program 

EQUAL HOUSING
call for details-277-3731 
~NrTY 
..._'!liN 

ELIZABETH C. HOWLl ATTENTION: Grad Students, 


Roy extended his season-long unbeaten streak at the Forum to _29-0-4 by making 27 saves. 
Flyers 4, Penguins 2 
Tim Kerr scored a first­period hat trick as the Philadel­phia Flyers beat the Pittsburgh P~nguins 4-2 Wednesday night, tymg the Patrick Division finals at one win apiece. 
The Flyers shrugged off a 76­minute delay resulting from a pre-game power failure to score two first-period power play goals --both by Kerr --and surge into a 3-1 lead for the second straight game. 
But unlike Pittsburgh's 4-3 victory in the opener, there was no comeback this time as the aggressive Flyers keyed by Ron Hextall's clutch goaltend­ing short-circuited the Pen­guins' NHL record-setting power play, limiting them to one man-advantage goal in eight chances. 

seen time at both split end and flanker. 
"He's been very flexible, being at split end and flanker plus playing baseball," said Yelovich. "He's improved in running his routes. We expect him to be a lot better in the fall." 
Ismail and Eilers lead a pretty thin group of receivers at this point. Sophomore Ricky Watters, who led the Irish in receiving last season, has moved to tailback and caused a minor depth problem in the receiving unit. 
"We just don't have the num­bers until this fall," said Yelovich. "Pat's playing baseball, and (tight end) Frank Jacobs is playing baseball. We're limited with depth when they're gone. If we have an in­jury, then it really becomes a serious situation." 
Recruits Ray Griggs, a 6-3, 190-pounder from Crete­Monee, Ill., and William Pol­lard, a 6-5, 210-pounder from Fort Knox, Ky., will arrive in the fall to help solve Notre Dame's depth problems at receiver. 
Freshman Walter Boyd is listed as the second-team flanker. Antwon Lark and Tony Smith are battling for the second spot at split end. None of these receivers caught a pass last season. 
"They're still going through a learning process and adjustin to the offense," said Yelovich. "We'd like to have moved a lot faster progression-wise." 
Yelovich, who had worked as a collegiate offensive line co­ach for more than 20 seasons, is happy with the switch to receivers coach. For Yelovich, coaching itself is the most im­portant thing. 
"I really enjoy it, this is an area .for me to broaden my scope," said Yelovich. "Anytime you have a chance to coach, it's enjoyable, no mat­ter what position it is you're coaching." 
LAST YlAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 


r 
I I I I 
I 
I 
~ 
I I I 
l 
I 
l 
~ 
I 
t I i 
I 
~-~---------~-~~------~-~--
ThursdaY, April 20, 1989

page 14 The Observer 
Yelovich leads new but too few Irish receivers 

The ObseNer I Mike Ury Freshman Raghib Ismail leads the Irish receiving corps in spring drills. Assistant Coach Tony Yelovich has taken over the job as Ismail and Pat Eilers are among the likely starters. 
STUDENTSHI HERE'S THE BEST CUT YOU'LL MAKE ALLYEAR. 
FLY THE MIDWAY CONNECTION~ SAVE 10% 
The Midway Conneciion® takes you to Chicago Midway 
Airport-'ilie hassi:::. ~ \ inairport. ~ ~ 
.,­

... 
~ 
• 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Edrtor 
A couple of faces in new places, and not enough faces in general, have worked for the Notre Dame receiving corps this spring. 
Notre Dame receivers coach Tony Yelovich, one of the new faces, has liked what he has seen of the receivers so far. 
"There's been a steady progression," said Yelovich, who has moved over to the receivers after working for three years as the offensive line coach. "We're not close to where we want to be, but they've worked hard and the at­titude's been super." 
The biggest name among the receivers has been Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, another per­son whose role on the team has changed since last year's na­tional championship season. The freshman from Wilkes­Barre, Pa., moves from split end to flanker. 
Ismail caught 12 passes for 331 yards in the regular season as a split end last fall. He had switched to split end from tail­back in the first week of fall practices. 
This latest switch should enable the Irish to run Ismail from the backfield on occasion and allow him to take more ad­vantage of the speed that made him the nation's top kickoff returner last season. 
"He definitely will play various positions for us," said Yelovich. "He's done very well. He's going through a learning process, but he's ad­justed very well." 
Junior Pat Eilers figures to start at split end this fall. Eilers, a transfer from Yale, caught six passes for 66 yards last season. 
Eilers has had one _busy spring, practicing on the foot­ball team, playing baseball and making an unsuccessful run for senior class vice president. On the football field, Eilers has 
---------------~--­
The Observer page 15 

CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
7 p.m. InterVarsity Christian Fellowship Bible Study, Room 317 Lewis Hall. 
. 
p.m. Snite Museum of Art film "You Can't Cheat an IH1one:st Man," Annenberg Auditorium. 
p.m. Anthropology and Kellogg Institute lecture "The Spirit nror""m"' & Wounded Laws: Ideology and Spiritism in the 
New Republic," by David Hess, Colgate University, 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
Cushwa Center American Catholic Studies seminar 1-'rrmh••tir Vision: Contemporary Women Novelists and the aAm~•rl<'·~n Catholic Experience," by Professor Anita Gan­West Virginia University, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
p.m. SMC Center for Spirituality lecture "Passionate 
•u.tn~•on Two Medieval Mystics," by Elizabeth Dreyer, ao:>UlUIIS.•vu D.C. Theological Union, Moreau Hall, Little 
otre Dame Saint Mary's 
and Cheddar Chicken Chimichangas Chicken Baked Meatloaf ....,.,u...,,u Sole Cheese Blintzes 
• ....,,,u.L,,.,u Pepper Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
11-\Est. (I-lK) 1-\\C.C.\JPS /I.RE ~ 
DR\IJ\t-IG M£ Jn 
(HIC.) CAAZ'f. ~ .-'. \ -~ 
ACROSS 29 Prefix meaning 50 End of the quip 1,000,000 
58 Evening 1 Vassal 33 Love very much segment

5 Freeway entrance or exit 
34 Country fetes 59 Landed 
36 Hamilton bill 60 Combo 

13 Ululate 37 More of the quip 61 Does a cowboy's job 
9 Order around 
14 Melange 40 Former Spanish queen 62 Furry pests
15 Turn back 41 Carries 63 Nev. city 
16 Official records 11 Military dining 42 Wage earner's 64 Many eras hall hope 65 Hurried 18 Proverb 43 "The-of the 66 Smell strongly prophet. " 
19 Start of a quip 22 "-You Come 
45 Thing, in law DOWN

Home, Bill 46 "The Lives of a Bailey?" Bengal-" 
1 Hit a fly23 Okla. city 47 Steeped 
2 Apiece 24 Suez and Kiel .beverage 
3 Actress 27 Con's adversary 49 Cato's eight Hayworth 
4 Table silver 5 Dwellers in the 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Eternal City 6 On the qui vive 7 Be lonely for 8 Luxurious 9 Chaos 
10 Oct.'s stone 11 Utah's lily ~=+=~¥.!..! 12 Seattle-, great race horse ~~-~=-~ 15 Boer assembly. ~:.j..!~~ 20 Annoy 
oloiioj.,-~=-21 New Zealand native 24 Looks the joint over 25 Hersey's bell town 
BERKE BREATHED 
BILL WATTERSON 


26 Actor Lloyd 35 Gibraltar or Hormuz
27 What glazi~rs take with their 38 Aesop's ending work 
39 Kitchen 28 Saws wood container lengthwise 
44 Easels or tripods 30 Rules of conduct 
46 Picked up 31 They gather in 
48 They have a 
gaggles 

benevolent 32 Genus for 31 order Down 
49 Sinatra's great 34 Kismet asset 
50 "Off the Court" author 51 Current: Comb. form 52 Bring home the bacon 53 Sweet potatoes 54 Petticoat 55 Writer Gardner 56 "I--New York in June" 57 Dior's was New 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
i 
I 


0 1981 ChrOnicle Fe•lures Otslnbuted by UntY&l"YI PrHS Syndtca;le 

"l·Z.O 



-~-~---~ ------------~ 
Sports

page 16 Thursday, April 20, 1989 
Underclassmen dominate as Irish edge Wildcats 
Offense leads 23rd-ranked team to 10-8 win 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Conway walked five batters another with a pitch, Conway Associate Sports Editor and allowed three runs before gave up a run-scoring single to leaving in the fifth inning. Tim Buhe. Northwestern 
Led by a group of four under­"He pitched like a fresh­added another run to take a 3-1 classmen, the Notre Dame man," said Murphy. "!thought lead. baseball team overcame a sub­he was more mature and could Tony Livorsi replaced Con­par performance to defeat handle it, but it was his first way after Buhe's single, and Northwestern 10--8 Wednesday start against a Big Ten team. the sophomore lefthander al­at Jake Kline Field. and he didn't have his stuff." lowed only one earned run in 
Freshman first baseman Joe Northwestern's Joe Perona his stint of 4 1-3 innings. Binkiewicz drove in three runs hit a solo homer in the second Livorsi, who had been working for the Irish. Craig Counsell, inning to open the scoring. Con­mostly in short relief, recorded another freshman, scored two way walked three of the next a complete game victory over runs, while catcher and class­four batters after Perona's Saint Louis before picking up mate Jason Martinez scored a blast, but the Wildcats left the Wednesday's win. run with one RBI. Sophomore bases loaded. Northwestern "He's proving to me that he Mike Coss hit a key triple left 11 runners on base in the can throw a third pitch for a during Notre Dame's six-run game, including five in the first strike," said Murphy. "When rally in the fifth inning. two innings. he only had one or two pitches, 
"Guys like Binkiewicz, Mar­The Irish tied the score in batters could get to him the tinez, (Cory) Mee--their tough­their half of the second when second time around the lineup. ,;>"' ness is a real positive for us," Mike Moshier's bunt scored "He doesn't throw the ball very said Irish coach Pat Murphy. James Sass from third. Mos­hard, but now he keeps them "I'm a little disappointed about hier reached first on the play, off-balance a little longer." our senior leadership of late, but he was thrown out trying Notre Dame managed only but it's nice to be saying this for second base in one of many two hits in the first three in­after we've beaten a Big Ten Notre Dame miscues. nings, as Northwestern team." "We gave away a lot of bases changed pitchers almost every 
Notre Dame (28-7), ranked and a lot of outs," said Murphy. inning. It is a common practice 23rd by Baseball America and "We did not execute on bunts, of Big Ten teams to rotate 24th by Collegiate Baseball I we popped up a couple of bunts pitchers during non-conference ESPN, plays Tri-State today at and misread plays in the out­games in order to have them 3 p.m. at Jake Kline Field. field." all rested for the weekend c,: :·; sa 
Wednesday's game started Conway's control problems games against conference op­-........_ with one Irish freshman turn­helped Northwestern regain ponents. The Obselver 1 Paul Comptoning in a disappointing perfor­the lead in the fourth. Mter The Notre Dame baseball team overcame an early surge by Northwes­
see IRISH I page 12

mance. Starting pitcher Brian walking one batter and hitting tern to defeat the Wildcats 10-8 at Jake Kline field Tuesda_y. 
Bookstore dream is still alive 
By BOB MITCHELL recently replaced injured Pete Steve Belles poured in Sports Writer Graham with D' Juan Fran­shots and pulled down 12 cisco, are a solid, well balanced rebounds. 
What began with 3,360 squad. The Bar needed the help of dreamy-eyed players has been Senior Steve Antinelli Pete Cordelli, quarterbacks co­pruned to 640 determined drained 5-of-11 shots and J.C. ach of the football team, to players who all believe that Trybus hit 5-of-6 to share the round out the team because of they can make it to the Final high scoring honors. Sean Con­the abscence of Kevin Warren. Four of Bookstore XVIII. ner turned in a four-for-eight Although Cordelli was not the Anyone who has laced up the shooting performance and most dominant player on the sneakers to step on the courts snatched a team-high eight court, he contributed to the envies those who still can say, rebounds. Francisco helped his team in his own way. "My team is still in it." team's cause with three points. "I felt out of place with all 
On the third day of the second "It was pretty fast-paced those great athletes on the round, the field was cut by 16 game and tough down low," court," said Cordelli about his teams, making it ever so closer said Antinelli. "Everyone shot substitution role. "Steve Belles to the elite 128 teams that will pretty welL Things were falling asked me during the day and I remain upon the completion of for us. I think we have a solid thought they obviously needed the second round. chance to win the tournament, a designated defender. 
One of those starry-eyed just like anybody else does." "I am the epitome of a brick teams is The Minahoonies, who Murphy's Bar is a team that layer, and on the one shot I drenched Puttin' Down at the is keeping April 30th (the day made, the wind was with me." Old Waterin' Hole, 21-8. The -of the Bookstore finals) open In other Bookstore action, seeded quintet threw in 21 of on their calendars. On the the Rainmakers undid Just Do their 37 shots (56 percent) on Bookstore courts, seeded It by an eight point margin. The Bookstore 9 Wednesday after­Murphy's Bar shattered the noon. The Minahoonies, who hopes off Howie's Heroes, 21-9. see BOOK I page 13 
Conscious Party upset by Nods 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Faltos, 21-0. Kristin Swenerton Secret Service guarded their Saint Mary's Sports Editor led her team with seven bas­rivals well with Maraya Goyer kets. and Rachel Hall pulling down 
All hopes of advancing to the Ryan's Rabble Rousers, 7 and 8 rebounds, respectively, next round were shattered for decked out in matching green to prevent We Score Every Ten eight teams during the Wo­T-shirts, took an early lead Minutes from scoring much at men's Bookstore Basketball over Five under 5'5". Ruth all. The game ended early with games yesterday. Piatz set the pace for her team­a score of 15-1. 
Conscious Party, a team mates with her nine baskets Five Girls and a Ball picked to do well at the start of and led them to a 19-6 victory. prevented We Wanna Score the tournament, was defeated from having a good time in its in a close game with the Nods. We've Got It, Put It Through first-round play as Mary Pat The lead exchanged hands took an early 6-0 lead and swal­Rosenthal scored eight points several times throughout the lowed The Hard Liquors, which to lead her team to a 21-10 vic­game but the Nods managed to had trouble with the quickness tory. pull ahead near the end and and accurate shooting of its op­The only forfeited game was defeated their opponents, 21-17. ponenets, losing by a final with Just So We Can Tell Our 
Several of the teams won score of 21-3. Grandkids, who can tell how their preliminary and first­Tony's Tigers kissed their they failed to show up and sent 
The Observer I Matt Mittino 
round games easily. The chances of advancing goodbye Three of Marv's Rejects and Mike Obringer of Shooting Blanks lays the ball in during Bookstore Traveling Sleighbells as Four Freshmen With Lipps Two of His Stars to the next action Wednesday. The Shooting Blanks defeated Sport Death "21-16 dominated their entire contest, defeated them 21-5 in the pre­round of bookstore basketball to advance in the tourney. slaughtering The Female liminary round. competition. 






