
AClOSS noM COACH'S SPOlT IA1l 
I!TW!E:M !DISON AID IJOIM)OD OJ STAT! lOAD 23 
277-33U 
u M
THE INTERNATIONAL CHOICES 
12• 

Chicken S.lad ••••••••••••••.•••• 2.15 3.40 TuM S.lad.... . • . • • . . • . • • • . • • • . • 2.15 3.40 
"FRENCH CROISSANTS"

...It lttf l Turkty ••••••••••••• 3.36 4.56 Roast lttf. • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • 2. 65 4.15 Chicken Salad ....•...............•... 1.95 Turtey... • . • . . . • • • • • • • • • • . . • . . . . 2. 40 3.70 Tuna Sal ad. . • . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . l. 95 Inttrftatfonal Co.bO ••••••••••••• 3.80 5.24 Ham &Cheese .•....•....•............. 1.95 
Inttrnatfonal Turkey Club •••..•• 2.60 3.90 Turkey ...••.•....•.....•............. l. 95 Ha• l Chttst •.••..••...••.•••... 2.50 3.70 International Croissant 01van ........ 2.05 
Ytttfl Sub •.•.••••••••• ~ • • • • . . . . 1. 80 2.60 YOUR CHOICE OF FIXINGS: 
•tRISH• Lettuce, tomato, onion, black olives Peppers: Banana Hot, Jalapeno, Green
Corned IHf on Rye ..............· 3. 00 4.10 
Two Cheeses: American, Mozzarella, Provolone, sw;ss

Reuben on Aye •••••••••.••..•.•.. 3.25 4.20 DESSERTS
•tTALIAN• 

Cheesecakes: Pizza Sub •.•••••.•••••••....•••. 3.00 4.00 Cherry. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .95Sausage •...•..••..••••••••..•.•. 2. 40 3.60 Plain. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • .30 
Mia ttlall . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • . . . . . • . . 1 . 86 3.15 Cakes........... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55Rout Bttf Au Jus ............... 2.85 4.35 Chips................................ .45 
"POLISH" Orinks: Pepsi, Diet, ~t. Oew, Or. Pepper, Root Seer, Lemonade Sausage ......................... 1. 9a 2.SS Small .35 Medium .65 Large .75 
Iced Tea ....•.••. 75 "GERMAN" Bratwurst ....................... Z.JC 3.40 
A 

lmko'S·

COPY 

WELC 0 fVl E BI~C K N 0 T ~~ E IJ /' MF -Sl M A I~ Y 


VOL. XXIII NO. 16 MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 18, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAB~R SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Men on bikes accost student near campus 

By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
An off-campus Notre Dame student was accosted Saturday by three male black youths rid­ing on BMX-typn small frame bicydes. 
According to Phil Johnson, assistant director of security, tlw incident oerurrPd at 6:00 
p.m. on Notrn Dame Avenue near the north end of Cedar Grove Cemetery. lie said the woman was not injured. 
The victim reported that she was walking alone south on Notre Dame Avenue when the suspects approached her, ver­bally harrassed her and touched her inappropriately, said .Johnson. 
The victim fled the scene and walked to lwr residence hall. 

.Johnson said the suspects were last seen riding their bikes west on Angela Boulevard from Notre Dame Avenue. 
Suspect one is described as a male, black, approximately 17 years old, chubby build, short hair, dark complexion and wearing a blue shirt and blue jeans. 
Supect two is described as male, black, approximately 17 years old, thin build, short hair, and wearing blue jeans. 
Suspect three is described as a male, black, approximately 14 years old, thin build, de­scribed as short with short hair. and wearing blue jeans. 
Johnson said that no arrests 
have been made at this time. He 
added that anyone with infor­
mation about this incident 
see ASSAULT I page 4 

VIctOry piCniC The Observer/Bill Mowle 
John Keegan, Jane Schoelch, and John Ducar discuss the important plays of the Michigan game at the 
picnic at Stepan Center Saturday. 

Hurricane Hugo nears Puerto Rico with 140 m.p.h. winds 
Associated Press 





Hurricane Hugo 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico ­
Hurricane Hugo pounded the
us. 
U.S. Virgin Islands and headed
o BERMUDA 
Atlantic Ocean 
Miami=~?~ ~ 
~,, 
'?> .._, VIRGIN 
o ISLANDS 


;~CA ~PU~\. 
REPUBLIC FlfCO 

Caribbean Sea  411ri: • 7...____, I((~ ,; ,iS'  lized the National Guard, and residents rushed for last­minute supplies and taped and  
boarded windows.  
At 10:30 p.m.  EDT, Hugo's  
center was located near latitude  
17.4  degrees  north  and  
AP  

East Germans seizing passports 
on a collision course with 
Puerto Rico early Monday after 
ripping across the northeast 
Conditions as of Sunday 

Caribbean with 140 mph winds 
6p.m. EDT 

and leaving at least nine people 
17.1N,64.1 W 

dead. 
Max. Winds: 140 mph 

About 80 people were injured
Moving: WNW 12 mph 

on the French island of 
Guadeloupe and 4,000 were left 
homeless, French officials said. 
The region's most powerful storm in a decade was expected to plow into Puerto Rico early Monday. The government mobi­
Associated Press 
BUDAPEST, Hungary-East German and Czechoslovak au­thorities have begun seizing passports to stop the flood of refugees fleeing to the West, East German emigres said Sunday. 
Hungary's foreign minister, meanwhile, defended his coun­try's decision to aid the immi­grant exodus and said the Warsaw Pact should stick to military defense and not dictate ideology or foreign policy to its members. 
In West Germany, officials said they registered 1,400 new East German refugees during the weekend, bringing to more than 16,000 the number of East Germans who have arrived since Hungary threw open its borders to the West one week ago. 
East German officials have said they would not crack down on visas for citizens wishing to visit Hungary. But refugees and charity workers at camps in Hungary said travel documents were in fact being seized. 
"More and more people are telling us that their visas are being taken from them," said Wolfgang Wagner, head of the West German Maltese Aid Service. "Some have told me that state security had come to their apartments to take the visas." 
Others were forced off East German and Czechoslovak trains and returned home, Wagner said in an interview. A growing number were forced to swim the Danube "or find other illegal means of coming here," he said. 
Going through Czechoslovakia, between East Germany and Hungary, is the most direct route for East Germans seeking to take ad­vantage of Hungary's open western border. 
A 25-year-old man from East Berlin said he and 15 others en­tered Hungary Saturday on foot after crowding into three cars and crashing through sev­eral Czechoslovak border bar­riers at the Rajka crossing, 
about 85 miles northwest of 
Budapest. 
He said police in Bratislava took away their travel docu­ments, and at one point they were held at submachine-gun point until they pledged they would not head toward the Hungarian border. 
Hungary's role in the refugee affair has been condemned by hard-line Warsaw Pact allies. A senior Communist foreign pol­icy adviser here spoke of Soviet anxiety. 
"It's a fact that there is no­ticeable worry on the part of the Soviet Union," Gyula Thuermer was quoted as saying in the Vasarnapi Hirek news­paper. "They are worried that Hungarian events will become incalculable, and they are also disturbed that there are open disagreements among their al­lies." 
The Soviets have criticized West Germany but have re­frained from directly accusing Hungary of wrongdoing. 
longitude 64.7 west, about 130 miles east-southeast of San Juan, said the National Weather Service in Florida. 
The storm slowed slightly from 12 mph to 9 mph, the Weather Service said. The Virgin Islands' population is 106,000, and Puerto Rico has 
3.3 million people. 
Hurricane-force winds of nearly 100 mph ripped away roofs and knocked out power on St. Thomas and St. Croix, about 70 miles east of Puerto Rico, officials said. Those two islands have most of the Virgin Islands' population. 
Officials said stores in the St. Croix town of Christiansted were heavily damaged and there were reports of looting. 
National Guard Adjutant Gen. Robert Moorehead said 1,000 people were evacuated to rescue shelters in St. Croix. 
Jesse Moore, a meteorologist at the National Hurricane Center in Florida, said it was too early to tell if the storm "will even hit the United States (mainland). The closest we can forecast it is to be off the southeastern Bahamas by Wednesday. After that it's any­body's guess." 
The storm caused widespread damage early Sunday as it passed near Guadeloupe. Damage also was reported on the islands of Martinique, Antigua and Dominica. 
Guadeloupe state radio said five people were killed on that island. In Paris, French officials said up to five people had been killed there. Neither report gave further details. 
Gabrielle Carabin, mayor of the village of Le Moule on the 
see HUGO I page 4 

Government may give millions to South Shore RR 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON.'-.. The fed­eral governme1ltcould pro­vide millions of dollars to the ailing South Shore railroad if state and local govern­ments in Indiana kick in their share, a federal official said. 
''There are ahost of pos­sible local fuuds that should be explored." Brian Clymer of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration told mem· hers of th~ Indi~Jla con­gres~ional d~leg~P9P· 
A federal bankruptcy judge has cleared the way for the sale of the South Shore to Anacostht & Pacific Corp., a Chicago holding company, for $33.6 million. The railroad is currently owned by the Venango River Corp. 
The Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District -a public agency that channels federal money to the railroad ­wants to buy only the pas· senger service from the holding company for $16 mlll~on; The plan calls for NICTil then to buy 14 new pt~,s~enger cars and m~ke improvements at stat10ns in South Bend, East Chitago and Hammond at a cost of $17.4 million. 

page 2 The Observer Monday, September 18, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Mother Teresa developed mild chest pains again Sunday, but doctors treating the Nobel laureate said her overall condition remained stable. Doctors also said the 79-year-old Roman Catholic nun has contracted a malaria parasite, but in­sisted it is not the cause of a recurring fever. A statement Sunday evening from Woodlands Nursing Home, the hospital where· Mother Teresa is recovering from a heart attack, said her condi­tion did not change during the day. 
War veterans, young people and Solidarity activists 
on Sunday quietly marked the 50th anniversary of the invasion of Poland by the Soviet Red Army. The government appealed for dig­nified demonstrations, and the observations were small compared to those held Sept. 1 for the 50th anniversary of the Nazi invasion of Poland that started World War II. 
Police killed 11 people Sunday during fighting between members of rival Hindu castes in the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu, authorities reported. They said those deaths raised to 20 the number of people killed in two days of violence between the two groups. 
Soviet politician Boris Veltsin wrapped up an eight-day tour of the United States on Sunday, and said he had found Amerieans to be "industrious, friendly, full of good humor and vi­tality." Yeltsin's first visit to the United States included meetings with President Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle, meetings with NASA officials, speaking engagements at colleges and a trip to an Ameriean grocery store. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
A new AIDS test expected to be licensed later this year uses colors to tell patients if they are infected with the AIDS virus ­white for health and blue for medical tragedy. The test, now un­dergoing trials at nine centers, will enable people worried about AIDS virus exposure to be tested within minutes at their doctor's office, instead of having to wait to hear from a distant laboratory. 
A Roman Catholic priest said Sundaf he would continue enforcing a dress code at his church in ~yton, Ohio despite orders from his archbishop that he stop refusing Holy Communion to people he considers inappropriately dressed. The Rev. Roger Griese has barred shorts and mini-skirts from Sacred Heart Church and has turned away from Communion people he considers immodestly dressed. 
The new Miss America Debbye Turner is a born-again Christian who sang a religious rap song at her first public ap­pearance, promising in rhyming patter to "sing his song ... every­where I go." Miss Turner, a veterinary student from Missouri, was crowned late Saturday as Miss America, besting runner-up Miss Maryland, Virginia Cha, 25, of Frederick, in the 68th edition of the popular pageant. 
The last two of 1 0 coal miners killed in a western Kentucky mine explosion were buried Sunday, and area residents said the tragedy soon would be forgotten because such disasters in coal country come as no great surprise. The probe into the accident -the nation's worst mine disaster since 1984 -was delayed for a third consecutive day Sunday because of dangerous levels of methane gas at the underground facility. 
WEATHER 

Sunny 

Mostly sunny and mild today. High in the middle 70s. Clear and cool tonight. Low around 
50. Sunny and mild Tuesday. High around 80. 
ALMANAC 
On Sept.18: e In 1793: President George Washington laid the corner­stone of the Capitol building in the District of Columbia. e In 1851: The first issue of The New York Times was pub­lished. e In 1947: The United States Air Force was established as a separate branch of the military. e In 1975: Newspaper heiress Patricia Hearst was captured by the FBI in San Francisco, 19 months after she was kid­napped by the Symbionese Lib­eration Army. 
MARKETUPDATE 

Cloalnga for Frlct.y, Sept. 15, 1989 
{t 
~~~v~a?enes 
+9.69 
Closed at 2674.58 

Currency exchange 
Mark ..{} .0001 to 1.9555 DM/$ 
Yen ..{} 1.50 to 145.80 ¥/$ 

Precious Metals Gold i} $3.40 to $365.20 I oz. Silver .if 2.9¢ to $5.84 I oz. 
Information compiled from Observer w1res and Observer stall reports 

Campus crime wave poses perplexing problems 

We were five civilized girls talking at lunch in the South Dining Hall. Nothing unusual about that. 
What was unusual though, was the topic of conversation-exactly which is the best way to hold your keys to be ready to gouge out an at­tacker's eyes or the correct way to disembowel someone with a knife. 
"You have to hold one key in between your forefinger and your thumb when making a fist, that way the key doesn't slip when you go to blind the guy," one of my roo mates explained. 
"And when you attempt to stab an assailant (assuming you happen to carry a knife) you should. come up from below with the weapon, because if you come down from above he can stop your arm," my other roomate enlightened us with her Chicago street smarts. 
Another of my roomates from the South just fluttered her eyelashes uncomprehendingly. 
It's hard to believe that at one of the most Catholic universities in the country assaults are a regular occurance. And it's even harder to be­lieve that such innocents as the five of us have to discuss counter-attack plans over chicken patties. 
To help us to defend ourselves. we decided that the administration should add some karate or jujitsu lessons to the mandatory meeting for freshman women, held every year during orien­tation. 
Being from New York, when walking from LaFortune to Walsh late at night, I am even more suspicious than the average Jane. I con­stantly check over my shoulder and look for shadows behind the trees. Actually I've been thinking of investing in a Swiss army knife ... 
OF INTEREST 
Seniors majoring in Accountancy are strongly encouraged to attend Accountancy Placement Night at 7:00 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Representatives from Baster Healthcare Corporation, Ernst and YQ.ung, and Manufacturers Bank of Detroit will discllSS career opportunities. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
Graduate students who are interested in the Spring GSU Survey results should attend an organizational meeting today. The GSU Survey Committee will meet at 7:00 p.m. in the ISO Lounge. We will discuss a plan of action to in­terpret the results of the survey. 
1989-1990 Urban Plunge. Learning agreements and registration forms are now available at the Center for Social Concerns. Registration begins today and continues through October 13, for a 48 hour immersion into inner city life over Christmas break. 
'Such innocents as the five of us have to discuss counter­attack policies over chicken patties.' 
Janice O'Leary Copy Editor 

Some other recommended lethal weapons, in addition to keys· and knives, are the ever-handy umbrella or a 20 pound physics text. Of course, the knee is always a sure-fire approach. 
It seems as though security is already pretty tough-detexes for girls' dorms and signing in late at night on the weekends if you're of the male persuasion. What else can we do? 
Here are some suggestions to prevent attacks on campus: 
•Avoid showering and deodorant 
•Run 
everywhere (think of what great shape you'll be in) 

•Gain 
200 pounds so no one would want to attack you 

•Wear 
the karate outfit you were issued at the freshman women's meeting 

•Pick 
your nose when you spot a potential at­tacker 


Seriously though, I hope this article has grabbed your attention, because better this than some strange man at 2 a.m. Take genuine precautions, because this really is no laughing matter. 
Figure skaters interested in skating week­day mornings at the JACC ice rink, please con­tact Katy Boyd at 283-4514. 
The Dolphin Club will be holding an or­ganizational meeting in the Rolfs Aquatic Center classroom, on Monday, September 18, at 7:30 
p.m. Anyone interested is encouraged to attend. 
Window posters can be picked up by off­campus students at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Iceberg Debates. If interested in working on the 1989-1990 Iceberg Debates, please pick up information and an application at the stu­dent government secretary's desk (second floor LaFortune). Applications are due September 25. 

Design Editor .................... Karen Newlove Design Assistant. Wendy Cunningham Typesetter ........................ Patrick Daleiden Assistant News Edltor...... Tim O'Keefe News Copy Editor....... Sandra Weigand 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Sports Copy Editor ............. Greg Guffey Viewpoint Editor ................... Dave Bruner
(219) 239-7471 VIewpoint Layout... ...... Melissa Gorham Accent Editor .................. Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ...... Shanda Wilson 
Accent Designer ................ Allison Cocks 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except ........................................................... Sarah Fiske during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the Photographer ....................... Sarah Vakkur University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­............................................................... Bill Mowle chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. Business Editor ...................... Liz Panzica 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights Business Layout-Maureen Gallagher are reserved. 
11a1kstoyou... ltwortcs... 
for 
AU. 

OFUS 


Unlliadway 



~ -----~-­
Monday, September 18, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Tens of thousands of Soviets ask for freedom for Ukrainian Church 
After Koch: A clash of quieter styles in New York City 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Tens of thousands of Ukrainian Catholics on Sunday joined in their church's biggest service since World War II to demand that Mikhail Gorbachev's government re·­store their legal status and end decades of repression. 
The two-hour outdoor Mass in the Ukrainian city of Lvov came on the 50th anniversary of dictator Josef Stalin's an­nexation of the western Ukraine from Poland. Western witnesses said the Mass drew up to 100,000 participants. A Ukrainian activist said 200,000 people gathered at a later prayer session. 
At dusk, about 30,000 Ukrainians carrying candles ringed a central square at Lvov's opera theater and ob­served a half-hour of silence to commemorate victims of the 1939 Soviet takeover and the purges that followed. 
Candles of mourning also twinkled in some apartment windows of the city of 650,000 people. 
The action was designed to mirror Aug. 23 demonstrations 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -One dresses like an undertaker and talks like a diplomat; the other more resembles an ex-altar boy. Neither even remotely takes after Edward Koch. the city's celebrated, reviled and garru­lous mayor since 1977. 
But one of them will take his job. 
The altar boy is Rudolph Giuliani, winner of last week's Republican mayoral primary. His opponent is David Dinkins, 

1989-1990 
OLD COLLEGE NICHT8 
f... monthly lime of shared hospitality. discussion and prayer welcomin8 colle8e ~tudenls and others who are explorin8 an interest in pursuin8 a process of discernin8 a vocalion to ministry and reli8ious life in f!oly Cross. 
Tuesday. &pl. 19 7:00 pm Tuesday, Ocl.. 10 7:00 pm Tuesday. Nov. 14 7:00 pm Tuesday. Dec. 12 700 pm l'll<'sday. Jan. 23 7:00 pm 
7:00 pm Ttwsday. "larch '20 7:00 pm Tuc.'\llny. Apnl 17 7:00 pm 
Notre Dame studenls are invited to each and all of these evenine,s. Each presentation be8ins at 7:00 pm and concludes at 8:00 pm. &hared prayer or celebration of the Eucharist will follow at 8:15 pm and all are welcome as well. 
Old Colle8e is located on the Notre Dame campus facin8 &l. Mary Lake immediately behind the Lo8 Chapel and Architecture Buildin8. 
for more information: Fr. John Conley. C&C Holy+ fr. Paul Doyle, C&C Box 541 
Old Colle8e

Cross%
Notre Dame. IN Notre Dame. IN


Priests&

(219) 239-6385 (219) 239-6302

thers 

in the three Baltic republics in which more than 1 million Estonians, Lithuanians and Latvians joined hands to protest the annexation of their lands. 
The Baltics and the Western Ukraine both fell into the Soviet orbit as a result of a secret pact between Stalin and Nazi German Dictator Adolf Hitler. 
"Tonight let us all turn off the electricity and put a candle in the window to commemorate the millions who died under Stalinist repression," Ukrainian Catholic activist Ivan Gel told the worshipers in Lvov. "Those candles will also sym­bolize the great hopes we have for our one, our dear Ukraine." 
"The time has come for free­dom for our church," declared Gel, head of the Committee in Defense of the Ukrainian Catholic Church. 
The Ukrainians carried at least 300 blue-and-yellow flags of their once independent homeland, along with crosses, images of the Virgin Mary and banners reading "freedom for our church." 
The outdoor service under an overcast sky was only the latest 
who toppled Koch in the Democratic contest with sur­prising ease. 
Whoever wins the general election, political analysts say the two mark a new era of New York City politics. Giuliani is the first Republican in 25 years with a shot at City Hall. Dinkins would be the first black mayor. 
"In a thematic way, New Yorkers are looking for change. The voting in both pri­maries suggested that," said Raymond Harding, chief of the city's tiny Liberal Party, whose nomination Giuliani also holds. 
Opporlunilies for minislry in Lhe Church loday Discernin8 a Vocalion: How lo Make a Decision Qeli8ious Life: Why Take Vows? 
Prieslhood: Whal is a Priesl? 
BwlherhooJ in tloly Cross: Whal i;; n brolher9 
t:nlenn0 lloly C.:n.."W\. A NO '81 Alum';; Perspecl1ve Holy Cro&~ (6 Nolre Dame: 1?0 Ye~rs of llislory The MiSSil>IHli',Y Church Holy Cro<% 10 t:asl Africa Fr. Qichard Warner. C6C Direclor. Campus Ministry Fr. Nicholas flyo. C6C fls.sL Prof.. P.L.6. 6r. Jean Lenz. OM fls.sl VP 6Ludent AlTair,; Fr. Michael Himo fi<%0C Prol~. The01osy ~ro. John Plalle. C&~ Bw ,JcA~ph Codl'1·ey. C&. · l'>r·o. 6Lephen NcH11. Cc'il­
t'r Jameli Kin<!,. l'ci)C flssi. Qe"clor -Dilk>n tlall Dr. Thonmli 6chlerelh Prof.. flmencan c'itudie;; t'r. Charles Cordon. C6C Assi. Qeclor. lloly Crc"l&\ Hall 
sign of reviving nationalist con­sciousness in the Soviet Union's second-most populous republic, where a new grassroots pro­democracy group called Rukh held its founding congress last week. 
The Ukrainian Church, some­times called the Uniate Church, has up to 5 million members by some Western estimates, and is said to be the largest banned religious organization in the world. 
In 1946, it was accused of 
widespread collaboration with 
the Nazis and forced to merge 
with the Lvov synod of the 
Russian Orthodox Church. The 
Ukrainian church's property 
was confiscated and believers 
who refused to accept "the re­
union" were brutally repressed 
or driven underground. 
Despite greater official toler­
ance of religion since President 
Gorbachev became Soviet 
leader in March 1985, the 
Ukrainian church is still offi­
cially banned. In May, about 
200 church members including 
Gel held a hunger strike on a 
Moscow street to demand legal 
recognition for their faith. 
Glory days 
The Observer/Sarah Vakkur 

Students and alumni alike share in the glory as they watch the Michigan game from Carrol Hall Saturday. 
"In the general election, change is the paramount issue." 
Giuliani hopes so. He is the ultimate political outsider, a Republican in an overwhelm­ingly Democratic city, a former federal prosecutor who made his name chasing corruption in city government and Wall Street, a man who never has held elective office. 
"Giuliani's principal asset is that he has no background in government. Therefore he can say he's going to change things," said Mitchell Moss, head of the Urban Research 
Buill in 1843 
Center at New York University. "He can take the full offense: He says, 'I'll clean house.'" 
True to form, in accepting the GOP nomination Tuesday night, Giuliani described his campaign as a "crusade" to establish "a new generation of leadership in this city." The next day he per­sonalized the attack, calling Dinkins a "clubhouse politi­cian" tied to a discredited Democratic regime. 
Still, Giuliani, 45, faces formidable odds. Two-thirds of the city's 3 million registered voters are Democrats. It took just 75,000 Republican votes for Giuliani to overwhelm his primary opponent, cosmetics heir Ronald Lauder; Dinkins, to defeat Koch and two other Democrats, got nearly 540,000 votes. 
"This is a Democratic town with a vengeance," said Norman Adler, a veteran politi­cal consultant. "You've got to get a whole lot of Democrats to vote for you if you want to 
win." 
Dinkins, 62, has promptly seized that advantage, making party affiliation a prime issue. 
page 4 The Observer Monday, September 18, 1989 
pects are not definitely the 
SECURITY BEAT Assault same, although Sncurity has not rulnd out that possiblity ei­
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1 10:25 p.m. A Notre Dame employee
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 6 continued from page 1 
ther.
reported the theft of a vehicle from the

1:30 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident 
should call Notre Dame "Notre Dame Security/Police
front of Corby Hall .

4:31 p.m. Notre Dame Police were reported the theft of his license plate called to the scene of a four car pile up from his vehicle while it was parked in 
Security at 283-4444 or 239-reminds the community to im­
on Juniper Road. No injuries were the D·2 lot. The theft occurred FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8 
5555. mediately report any crime or 
reported. sometime between 12:01 a.m. on 4:44 a.m. A Badin Hall resident re­
Although this incident sounds suspicious activity. If you or
7:30 p.m. A resident of O'Hara-Grace 9/3189 and 10:00 a.m. on 9/6. His loss ported the theft of her coin purse and 
similiar to an incident that oc­someone you know is the victim 
reported the theft of cash and a CB is estimated at $70. 
contents from the Alumni Senior Club. from her locked vehicle while it was 2:30 p.m. A resident of Fisher Hall 
curred on Friday, September 8 of any crime, or if' you sec any
The coin purse was later found, but all parked in the O'Hara-Grace parking reported the theft of a bicycle from the 
when two Notre Dame students suspicious activity, go to the
cash had been removed. 

lot. Fisher Hall bike rack sometime 1 0:30 a.m. A resident of Morrissey Hall 
were accosted by two male nearest open building or resi­
9:00 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a between 6:00p.m. on 9/5/89 and 2:30 
reported that his vehicle had been 

black youths on BMX-type bicy­dence hall and immediately
Kalamazoo resident for speeding. The p.m. on 9/6. His loss is estimated to be damaged while parked in the D-1 lot 
defendant was traveling 43 mph in a $450. 
cles, Johnson said the descrip­contact Security/Police," said
sometime between 9/6/89 and 9/8.

posted 25 mph zone. 3:30 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a 
Vandals broke the antenna off his car. 

tions are different and the sus-Johnson in a press release. 
9:25 p.m. A South Bend resident was South Bend resident for Operating a 
His loss is estimated at $60. cited by Notre Dame Police for Vehicle on Expired License Plates. 
7:25p.m. Notre Dame Securityspeeding. The defendant was trav­A resident of Carroll Hall reported responded to the report of a golf cart 
American Bed Cross, said late 
eling 43 mph in a posted 25 mph zone. vandalism to the windshield of his car 
theft from the golf course. The theft 

Sunday that has11d on projec­



Hugo
while if was parked in the D·6 lot occurred sometime between 6:00 p.m. sometime between 11:30 · p.m. on 
tions, the storm could leave up
on 9/7/89 and 7:20 p.m. on 9/8. The 

continued from page 1SATURDAY, SEPT. 2 
9/4/89 and noon on 9/6. 

to 250,000 people honwless on
loss is estimated to be $2,600.

3:09 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident 4:04 p.m. A South Bend resident 
northwestern coast of Puerto Hico.
reported the theft of his vehicle from reported minor damage to his unat­
Guadeloupe, said in an inter­Civil defcnse officials said up
the D-1 lot sometime after 6:00 p.m. 
tended vehicle while it was parked on 9/t/89. The vehicle was later 
view on the island's Badin to 15,000 pcoplc could be evac­
outside St. Joseph Hall. The incident recovered by the South Bend Police occurred between 2:00 and 3:00p.m. 
Caraibe lnternationale that two uated from llood-prone areas 
Department. SATURDAY, SEPT. 9
7:30 p.m. A Sarin Hall resident re­
village residents were killnd. of western Puerto Hico and
2:05 a.m. An off campus student

ported the theft of his locked bicycle 
reported the theft of her valid Illinois 

She did not elaborate. hundreds had aln1ady been
from the front of Sarin Hall sometime
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 3 driver's license while at the Alumni 
Beacon Hadio in Anguilla said moved into a sports stadium in
between 12:00 a.m. on 9/5/89 and
11:41 a.m. A Lyons Hall resident Senior Club. Her loss is estimated at
12:00 p.m on 9/6. His loss is estimated 
one person was killed in Mayaguez, the island's third
reported that the CB antenna on her $5.
at $360. 

Montserrat and two in Antigua, largest city.
car had been removed while it was 9:10a.m. Notre Dame Police were
9:30 p.m. The Assistant Rector of
parked in the D·6 lot. The theft oc­called to the scene of a two car hit and 
but it gave no details. National Guardsmen and vol­
Stanford Hall reported the damage of
curred between 7:00 p.m. on 8/31/89 run at the Campus View Apartment 
In the central Puerto Hican unteers drovc through San
a window on the third floor. The
and 3:00 p.m.on 9/1. Her loss is es· complex. No injuries were reported.
vandals threw a tennis shoe through 
town of Utuado, a man was Juan, the capital, on Sunday is­
timated at $30. 2:10p.m. A Flanner Hall resident
the window. 

electrocuted when he touched a suing emergeney instructions
1:15 p.m. A resident of Dillon Hall reported the theft of cash from his
9:45 p.m. A resident of Holy Cross Hall
reported the theft of his unlocked bi· unlocked desk drawer. The theft oc­
power line while removing a over loudspeakers.
reported the theft of his wallet and
cycle from the Dillon bike rack. The curred sometime between 8:30 and 
television antenna from his Gov. Hafael llcrnandcz Colon
contents from his unlockeg room.

incident occurred between 7:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. 
roof to prepare for the storm, llew over the island by heli­
on 9/2189 and 12:30 p.m. on 9/3. His 5:30 p.m. The Rector of Sarin Hall loss is estimated to be $250. THURSDAY, SEPT. 7 reportea me theft of two benches from 
police said. He was identified as copter Sunday morning and 
6:05 p.m. A California resident was the front of Sarin Hall. The loss is 
Antonio Alago Gonzalez, 51. told reporters later: "We arc as
12:02 a.m. A South Bend resident 
cited by Notre Dame Police for estimated to be $300.
reported the theft of a pizza carrier and 
In San Juan, the Port prepared as we eould be." 
speeding. The defendant was travel· contents from his unlocked vehicle 
Authority announced that it In a statement on the emer­
ing 61 mph in a posted 30 mph zone. 
while it was parked outside Lewis Hall. SUNDAY, SEPT. 10 
closed the Munoz Marin gency broadcasting system, the
9:01 p.m. A resident of South Bend The loss is estimated at $48.39. 9:00 a.m. A Notre Dame employeereported the theft of his locked bicycle 
International Airport to all governor said waves 15 to 20
1:30 p.m. A resident of South Bend reported vandalism to a golf cart. Thefrom the Fitzpatrick bike rack. His loss reported the theft of a golf club from incident occurred sometime between 
flights at 6 p.m. It said all in­feet high were expected. lie ap­
is estimated at $50. 

outside the Pro Shop sometime be­8:00 p.m. on 9/9/89 and 6:00 a.m. on 
ternational carriers had re­pealed to coastal residents not
9:06 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a tween 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. Her 9110. 
moved their planes from Puerto living in sturdy homes to move
Fisher Hall resident for speeding. The 
loss is estimated to be $55. defendant was traveling 42 mph in a 
Rico except for one American to shelters in hundreds of
6:30 p.m. A resident of St. Edward's 
posted 25 mph zone. Hall reported the theft of his wallet and MONDAY, SEPT. 11 
Airlines A300 left behind for churches, schools and other
9:25 p.m. A Mishawaka resident was 10:00 a.m. A Notre Dame employee
contents from his unlocked room .. 

emergencies. public buildings. 
cited by Notre Dame Police for No reported the attempted theft of items
6:45 p.m. Five Grace Hall residents 
License in Possession and for from inside a locked car parked in the 
The Port Authority also said Reports indicatnd that the is­
reported the theft of numerous items 
speeding. The defendant was travel· Fatima lot. The incident occurred 
cruise ships scheduled to arrive land of Guadeloupe, the most
of clothing from their room. Their loss 
ing 46 mph in a posted 25 mph zone. sometime between 12:00 and 9:30
is estimated at $755. 

in San Juan had been routed to southerly of the Leeward 
6:40 p.m. A resident of O'Hara-Grace a.m. 
other destinations. Islands, was the hardest hit of
11 :20 .a.m. A Wisconsin resident re­

TUESDAY, SEPT. 5 reported vandalism to her vehicle 
ported the theft of numerous items 

A Sunday morning weather the string of' islands forming a
12:30 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident while it was parked in the O'Hara 
from her vehicle while it was parked in 

service bulletin said: "If the eye 600-milc arc from the
reported the theft of his wallet and Grace lot. Vandals cut the fuel line in 
the Moreau lot sometime between 

contents from an unlocked locker in her car. 
of Hurricane Hugo moves Leewards to the Greater
3:00 and 10:15 a.m.

the men's locker room of the JACC. 7:15 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident 
across Puerto Hico as forecast, Antilles.
12:35 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident

The theft occurred sometime between reported the theft of his wallet and 
reported the attempted theft of his 

we expect a 50-mile wide path
11 :00 a.m. and 11 :45 a.m. contents from his unlocked room. 
vehicle while it was parked in the D-2 

of extensive to extreme damage Jocelyne Vandvurdenghe, a
6:10 p.m. A resident of Alumni Hall 7:20 p.m. Notre Dame Police were 
lot. The incident occurred sometime

reported the theft of his unlocked called to the scene of a two car acci­
to occur." French government official in
between 8:00 p.m. on 9110/89 and

bicycle from the Alumni Hall west bike dent at the intersection of Juniper and 
In Washington, Brian Martinique, said 80 people were
11:50 a.m. on 9/11.

rack. His loss is estimated at $150. Douglas. No injuries were reported. 
Ruberry, a spokesman for thA reported injured in GuadeloupP. 







Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
TWO FOR ONE SPECIAL 
BRING THIS WHEN BUYING A LARGE CUP OF COLUMBO 
Career Opportunities
FROZEN YOGURT AND GET A SECOND OF EQUAL OR LESSER VALUE FREE 

at Morgan 
Coupon redeemable only at YES IT'S YOGURT 
(or iVot rf' /Ja mr st wl('ft ts 
Indian Ridge Plaza, Mishawaka 
interf'stf•d in 

Limit one per customer Not valid with any other promotion Not redeemable for cash 
Auditinp: 

Finan('ial \lanap:t'lllt'lll 
CAMPLfS BIBLE STUDY* 
Ba11 k \<'<'O untinp:
(CBS) 
-
"...there are all sorts ofservice to be done, 
'lltx Strat•·p:it•s

bur always to the same Lord; working in all sorts ofdifferent ways in different people ... · (Z\MPUS I Cor. 12.· 4,5 
Plf'ww plan to attend our
MINISTRY 

FIRST MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 
;,~forfll(/fion prl'S('fi/(J/to/1 011
7:00 p.m. 
:'Honda.t~ Septrmhf'r 2.5 
II st/l{feuts iuviterl to ntll!urf 011e Hour Scssious 
6:00-\:00 pm

Eculltl!llicnl Di/J/1! Stttrfy Dring your ow11 bible 
l'rlorris Inn /Votre /Jame Hoom
Every Tucsrlny -7:00 p.m. Office of Cn111p11s Miuistry 
( :nllfirmlfu· tiuu· und lunlliun with ~our pluc't'IIH'Ill offin· 
Co11fere11ce Roo111-Bndi11 Hnll 
JPMorgan
Directed l.Jy: Rev. AI D'AlOIIZO, esc For nrfrfitio11nl illfomuztioH call: 239-5955 
239-5242 

...........-----------~---------~­
Monday, September 18, 1989 The Observer page 5 

The Observer/Sarah Vakker

Grotto sunset 
The sun shines through the trees around St. Joseph Lake in this incredibly scenic view from the Grotto. 

Preliminary Telephone Book Additions 
Office of the Dean of Administration and Registrar 
The following is a list of people that, due to technical troubles, were not included in the Notre Dame Faculty­Staff listings of the Preliminary Telephone Directory. Please clip these names and keep them with your directory. We apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused the listed individuals and those trying to reach them. 
MACALPIN, Archie J. Assoc. Profesor Emeritus,  
Earth Science, 1851 North College  233-8589  
MACK, Charles, Supervisor, Building Services  
Bus Shelter Office  5615  
121 S. Chicago St.  288-1109  

MACOR, Kathleen A., Asst Professor, Chemistry, 273, 274 Stepan Chemistry 8025 MacKAY, Neil A., Biological Technician, Biological Sciences, 228 Galvin Life Science 5544 1237 Woodward Ave. 232-9674 MacKENZIE, Jr., Louis A. Asst. Professor, Romanc~ Languages and Literatures, 161 Decio 7133 51620 Old Mill Road 277-5912 MacWHORTER, William E., Director, Building Services Bus Sheller Office 5615 18356 Conventry 0. 277-4474 MACZAK, Antoni, Visiting Professor, History 257 Decio 6276 102 Brownson Hall 7782 MADDEN, Keith P., Assoc. Professional Specialist, Radiation Lab., 237 Radiation Research Bldg. 7279 2401 E. Pimms Lane MAENHOlJf, Geri, Supervisor, Building Services, Bus Shelter Office 5615 125 N. Virginia St., Mishawaka, IN 259-{;216 MAGEE, John L. Professor Emeritus, Chemistry 
MAGEL, Carl, Director, Publications and  
Graphic Services, 415 Main Bldg.  5337  
4400 Hickory, Apt. 2-C, Mishawaka, IN  277-1074  
MAHONEY, Judith A., Library Specialist,  
Life Sciences Library. B-149 Galvin Life Science  7209  
17825 Tally Ho East Drive  272-{;581  
MAINWARING, Scott, Senior Fellow,  
Kellog Institute, Assoc. Professor,  
Gov't and Int'l Studies 124 Decio  7119  
233-{;657  

MAKl, Jun, Visiting Ass!. Professor, Biological Sciences 243 Galvin Life Science 5444 MALLEY, C.S.C., Bro. Borromeo, Fire Chief Fire Station Room 1 6200 MALLOY, C.S.C., Rev. Edward A., President, 301 Main Bldg. 6755/6756 141 Sorin Hall 6555 MALLOY, James P. , Assoc. Director of Financial Aid, Financial Aid, 103 Main Bldg. 6436 53282 Bonvale Drive 277-4601 MALONE, John R Professor Emeritus, Marketing, College of Business Administration llOA Hurley Bldg. 6539 53130 Fox 0. 277-3333 MALONEY, C.S.C., Patrick H., Assoc. Professor, 
Music, 212 Crowley Hall I Presbytery 
Saturday, Oct. 14 8:00pm Morris Civic A1 Jditoril 1m 
all seats reserved $16.50 
Tickets on sale TOMORROW AT 10:00 Civic Box Office,Nightwinds, Record Connection & usual outlets CHARGE 284-9190 
6512 
6~2 





Three more bombs explode in Colombia 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA, Colombia -Three bombs exploded Sunday in the drug-infested city of Cali, killing a security guard, and a newspaper that has crusaded against Colombia's cocaine barons said one of its reporters was slain by thugs. 
Meanwhile, a top presidential contender reportedly urged that no more drug traffickers be extradited to the United States.­
The bombings in Cali oc­curred shortly after midnight at two banks and a shopping center, said Col. Rozo Julio Navarro, chief of the national police force in Cali. 
The city of 1 million people about 185 miles southwest of Bogota is the headquarters for one of Colombia's two cocaine cartels. The other is in the northwest city of Medellin. 
Navarro told Colombian radio the bomb at the shopping center killed a guard. He said another bomb was found at a bank and deactivated. 
Cali, Bogota, and Medellin have been the sites of frequent shootings and bombings since Aug. 18, when the government went to war with the nation's powerful drug traffickers. 
A total of 42 blasts have killed four people and injured 115. 
The war began after the as­sassination of Luis Carlos Galan, a senator who was seeking the presidential nomi­nation of the governing Liberal Party and had pushed for forceful action against drug traffickers. 
Under emergency measures imposed since Aug. 18, President Virgilio Barco has re­sumed extraditions to the United States of suspected drug traffickers. 
The Liberal Party's current leading candidate, Alberto Santofimio Botero, reportedly called for an end to the extradi­tions during a speech Saturday in the town of Ibague. 
"I do not support giving up Colombians to be tried under someone else's roof," he was quoted as saying. Excerpts from the speech were published in a dozen Colombian newspa­pers Sunday. 
So far, one person has been extradited to the United States, and authorities have said ex­tradition proceedings are under way against two others. 
As the violence continues, newspapers have begun calling for the government to negotiate with the drug traffickers. 
Juan Diego Jaramillo, a columnist for the country's leading daily, El Tiempo, sug­gested Saturday the govern­ment should use extradition as a bargaining chip in negota­tions and warned that the war could become a little Vietnam." 
In another Bogota daily, La Republica, columnist Francisco Morales Casas wrote, "We should not continue with this war and should turn to dia­logue." 
Perhaps the most important Colombian favoring negotiation with the drug traffickers is Juan Gomez Martinez, mayor of Medellin and one of the owners of Medellin's leading daily, El Colombiano. He favors negotia­tions. 
El Espectador, however, has remained firmly opposed to such moves, despite the murder of its editor, Guillermo Cano, three years ago. 
El Espectador's editor was slain by drug traffickers in 1986, and the newspaper was 
heavily damaged Sept. 2 in car bomb attack. 
#1 NOTRE DAME "FIGHTING IRISH" vs. #2 MIAMI "HURRICANES" 

THANKSGMNG FOOTBAll WEEKEND 
NOVEMBER 22·26, 1989 
COMPLETE PACKAGE INCWDES 
• 
ROUNDTRIP TRANSPORTATION TO AIRPORT 

• 
ROUNDTRIP JET FLIGHT TO MIAMI 

• 
4 NIGHTS AT THE LUXURIOUS SHAWNEE RESORT DIRECTLY ON BEAUTIFUL MIAMI BEACH 

• 
TRANSFERS TO THE "ORANGE BOWL" 

• 
NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI GAME TICKET 

• 
GREAT AMERICAN'S TOUR STAFF ON-LOCATION 

• 
ALL TAXES AND GRATUITIES INCLUDED 


TRIP PRICE: $435.00, quad occupancy. $150.00 Deposit to reserve your spot Visa and Mastercard accepted 
Contact the Student Activities Office: Notre Dame 239-7308 315 LaFortune Center Saint Mary's 284-4561 103 Haggar Center 
a 

-------------~~­
page 6 The Observer 
New faculty members announced 
Special to the Observer Arts and Letters core course; computer engineering; Tod Bradford Petrie, philosophy; Marder. architecture (Home 
New faculty mP.mbers at the Carolyn Plummer, music; program); James Mills, electri­University of Notre Dame have William Hamsey, philosophy; cal and computer engineering; been announced by Timothy Father IIerman Heith, philoso­Hobert Minniti, electrical and 0 'Meara,provc>st. phy; Jill Hoss, romance lan­computer engineering; Kevin 
In the College of Arts and guages and literatures; Marcia Passino, electrical and com­Letters, new faculty include: Sawyer, history; Father puter engineering; Joseph Linda Austcrn. program of Timothy Scully, C.S.C., govern­Powers, aerospace and me­li berctl studies; Patricia ment and international studies; chanical engineering; Ken David Borchert, romance languages Ajit Singh, economics; Hobert Sauer. electrical and computer and literatures; Jonathan Sleigh, philosophy; Marina engineering; Steven Skaar, Boulton, history; father John Smyth, freshmen writing pro­aerospace and mechanical Phillips Boyle, theology; Michael gram; Mary Ann Spence, engineering; Thomas Smith, ar­Buckley. theology; Victoria freshmen writing program; chitecture; and Hobert Taylor, Chiang, music; Father Leonard Gregory Sterling, theology; aerospace and mechanical Chrobot, Arts and Letters core Alain Toumayan, romance lan­engineering. course; Ava Preacher Collins, guages and literatures; David In the College of Science: Ani communication and theatre; Ussishkin, theology; Kathleen Aprahamian, physics; Paul Contino, English; Paulo da Werner, romance languages Debkumar Basu, chemistry and Silva, romance languages and and literatures; Karen White, b i o,c h e m i s try ; Mau r o literatures; Marian David, phi­psychology; Patrick Wilson, lib­Beltrametti, mathematics; losophy; James Deming, his­eral studies; Marton Wolfson, William Bon Durant, mathe­tory; Jean Ann Dibble, art, art economics; Andrzej Wyrobisz, matics; Luis-Jaime Corredor, history and design; Lori history; Ewa Ziarek, English; mathematics; Patrick Coulton, Crawford, romance languages and Krzysztof Ziarek, English. mathematics; Matthew Dyer, and literatures, John Doody, In the College of Business mathematics; Afiati Ghazalli, philosophy; Kevin Dreyer, Administration: Hoger Betts, biological sciences; Kenneth communication and theatre; London MBA program; Sandy Haller, William Hawley, bio­Father Regis Duffy, O.F.M., Bicos, management; Patricia logical sciences; Alex Himonas, theology; Percival Everett, Costigan, accountancy; Richard mathematics; Joseph Kochocki, English; Janet Fisher-McPeak, Elliott. managemen't; Frederick physics; Tadeusz Kozniewski, Homance languages and litera­Francis, London MBA program; mathematics; Mary Kreuzman, tures; Pauline Flynn, freshmen Sidney Jacobson, management; mathematics; Gary Lamberti, writing program; Joel Galand, John Keane, management; H. biological sciences; Terry music; David Gasperetti, Theodore Noell, management; Matthews, biological sciences; German and Russian languages Henry Nordhoff, college guest Douglas McAbbe, biological and literatures; Father Charles lecturer; Susan Pattillo, ac­sciences; Juan Migliore, math­Gordon, C.S.C., theology, Judith countancy; William Przybysz, ematics; Joseph Moriarty, earth llcyhoe, freshmen writing pro­marketing; Ann Henee Hoot, sciences; Annette. Olivarez, gram; Jerome Hoberman, mu­marketing; Melvyn Scott, earth sciences; Beverly Peste!, sic; Father Charles Hohenstein, London MBA program; Daniel chemistry and biochemistry; Arts and Letters core course; Simon, accountancy; John Stephen Steiner, chemistry and Jeffrey J ordan,philosophy; Simon, management; and biochemistry; David Tannor, Frederic Lee, Economics; Barry Hafael Tenorio, finance and chemistry and biochemistry; llolstun Lopez, American business economics. David Van Baak, physics; Studies; Jeanne Lowe, freshmen In the College of Engineering: Dariusz Wilczynski, mathemat­writing program; and Mark Joan Brennecke, chemical engi­ics; Yelu Xu, chemistry and bio­Lutz, government and interna­neering; William Delaney, elec­chemistry; and Lo Yang, math­tional studies. trical and computer engineer­ematics. 
Also, Barbara Mangione, ro­mance languages and litera­tures; Odette Menyard, romance languages and literatures; William Montell, American Studies; David Mosley, fresh­men writing program; Bernard Norling. history; Basil O'Leary, 

A triCky tOSS 

The Observer/Bill Mowle 
Justin Hartings demonstrates his juggling skills. 
In the Law School: Maureen Dowd, Alan Gunn, Jimmy Gurule, Hoberta Karmel (London program). Fritz Raber, Joseph Thomas (law library). and Jay Tidmarsh. 
The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies has added Felipe Aguero, Ronald Archer. Julio Cotler, Redi Hernandaz Gomis, Luis Felipe Jimenez Leighton, Jaime Mezzera, Antonio Luis Paixao, Leigh Ann Payne, Maria del Pilar Romaguera Gracia, and Helen Icken Safa. 
Reserve Officer Training Corps additions include: Capt. Alan Andrysiak, aerospace studies; Maj. Cynthia Chandler, aerospace studies; Lt. Daniel Cochran, naval science; Lt. Edward Fairbairn, naval science; Lt. Anthony Laberge, naval science; Capt. John Pottinger. military science; Lt. 
ing; Kimberly Ann Gray, civil engineering; Eric Jumper, aerospace and mechanical engineering; John Kenney, elec­trical and computer engineer­ing; Seong Rae Lee, materials science and engineering; Thomas Madej, electrical and 

WeJre Banking on your Career Success. 
Tricia Ann Vislay, naval science; and Maj. Francis Weiss, military science. 
Among other newly appoint faculty arc: Michael Affleck, Center for Social Concerns; David Aremstrong, radiation laboratory; David Behar, radia­tion laboratory; Brian Brocklehurst, radiation labora­tory; Thomas Cashore, University libraries; David Cortright, Institute for International Peace Studies; Ian Duncanson, radiation labora­tory; Laura Ann Jenny, University libraries; Eileen Kolmen. provost's office; Michael Lutes, University li­braries; Diana Matthias, Snite Museum of Art; Czi Ching Judy Pann, social science training and research laboratory; Hitoshi Taniguchi. radiation laboratory; and Mary Whetstone, University libraries. 


W 
e are Manufacturers National Corporation, a major Detroit-based regional bank 
holding company with close to 6,000 employes and assets of $9.3 billion. Our corporation provides a wide variety of financial services to customers worldwide through the corporation's banking and subsidiary offices. 
Representatives of Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit (our principal subsidiary) will be conducting campus interviews for career opportunities within the Metro Detroit area at Notre Dame University on Wednesday, October 18, 1989. 
We will seek individuals who have a Bachelors degree in a business related field. We offer a wide variety of exciting and challenging career opportunities for: 
• Cost & Financial Analysts in our Controllers Department 
• Corporate Trust Analysts in our Trust Department 
• 
Examiners in our Audit Department 

• 
Credit Analysts in our Commercial Lending Area 


Explore career possibilities with us. Contact your placement office to arrange an on-campus interview. · 

Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN 
r-~------------------------------------~--------------------------­





Business 
Monday, September 18, 1989 page 7 
Pizza Hut declares Junk bonds fuel 80s buyout b·oom 
Associated Press 
scandal at Drexel Burnham them on their prospective
war on McPizza test 
Lambert Inc., the Wall Street buyout values. Associated Press about 22 percent of the $314 NEW YORK -If you took firm that virtually invented the The Campeau situation apart, billion-a-year pizza market, it's takeover mania out of the stock market for junk securities as Robert Nurock, a Paoli, Pa., 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Pizza not taking the McDonald's test market, what would it cost financing tools, and has been investment adviser, cites Hut Inc. has fired the first lightly. investors? its chief sponsor since. "mounting evidence that viable salvo in an advertising war "The television commercial is That's the tough calculation Still, some observers said deals are becoming more over the test marketing of very humorous. We're being, many analysts are trying to events in the markets on difficult to come by": pizza by McDonald's however, very serious to our make right now, prompted by Wednesday and Thursday, restaurants. approach to the McDonald's the latest tremors in the high­when Campeau's situation -Increasing numbers of past 
The fastfood war turned into threat," said Roger Rydell, a yield "junk" bond market that became the subject of intense buyouts that have faltered. a pizza war on Sept. 1 when spokesman for Pizza Hut in has provided the fuel for the scrutiny, unfolded as a sort of Pizza Hut advertisements were Wichita, Kan. buyout boom of the 1980s. unscheduled "fire drill." -A shrinking number of published in newspapers in The immediate issue the Stock prices fell for a good companies that make sensible, Evansville and nearby "We want to make it clear to markets had to contend with many companies that had been or even fanciful, future targets. Owensboro, Ky. them that we are very strong last week was the problems of discussed as the next possible 
"If you're looking for great competitors and make sure Toronto-based Campeau Corp., subjects for takeover bids, on -Higher interest costs to pizza, make no Mcstake," the people are aware of the quality faced with the challenge of the reasoning that Campeau's finance takeovers, stemming ad said. difference between our two reshuffling the coast-to-coast experience might deter lenders from reduced enthusiasm for 
"We always use dough that's products," Rydell said Friday. U.S. retailing empire it had and reduce the ranks of eager junk bonds. made fresh daily. Not Pizza Hut officials have not built with debt-financed acquirers. McFrozen," the ad also said. determined how long the acquisitions. So did the share prices of -The perception of greater 
Thirty-second commercials advertising campaign will last, Whatever the outcome of that leading banks that also play a difficulty in meeting takeover began airing on Evansville Rydell said. particular case, analysts said, major role in takeover debt burdens in a period of soft television stations Thursday it set up a compressed financing. or declining business profits. night. "It really depends on how demonstration of the broader Traders in all the markets 
Pizza Hut, the nation's long the test takes. Once we see psychological effects that might watched warily for any sign of "No one knows exactly how largest pizza chain, launched there's really no need to arise should big trouble develop stepped-up redemptions by soon the next recession will the campaign in response to the continue it, we'II discontinue in the takeover debt markets. investors in mutual funds that strike, how deep it will addition of pizza to menus at it." Through the late 1980s, the specialize in junk bonds. Such inevitably be, or how many 24 McDonald's restaurants in Rather than fighting back, market for "junk" debt has redemptions could force debt-laden corporations will southern Indiana and western McDonald's is "McDelighted proved much more resilient interest rates higher for lower­ultimately default on their Kentucky earlier this summer. than most of its critics and quality securities and put other bonds," said James Stack, 
The pizza. which comes in that they noticed how good our skeptics ever expected. junk-bond investors in a bind. editor of the financial advisory four varieties and ranges in test product is," said company It has weathered defaults and And onlookers with a longer­service InvesTech. "But with price from $5.84 to $9.49, is spokesman Chuck Rubner. bankruptcy filings by some term perspective wondered at total corporate debt running at promised within 5 1/2 minutes "We want to thank them for prominent bond issuers -for what level stocks would trade if two times the level of the last of an order being placed. giving our own ad campaign example, LTV Corp. market participants were no recession, we can rest assured 
Although Pizza Hut owns some extra topping," he added. It has ridden out a prolonged longer so eager to appraise there'll be a few surprises." 
Valdez: Big spill, big oil, big bucks follow 
extended vacations to warmer Associated Press locales. That has sparked tensions 
VALDEZ, Alaska -Calm has among the town's 3,700 returned to the dusty streets of residents. this port for the first time since "They're not sticking 
the wreck of the Exxon Valdez, around," Smith said. "We'd like but the tranquility belies the to expand, but we can't seem to social friction caused by the big get anyone to work. Most of spill, Big Oil and big bucks. these guys made so much 
Valdez was flush this summer money they're leaving town." with millions of dollars spent in cleaning up the nation's largest Still, Smith and other oil spill. Thousands of job~erchants said they profited seekers came here for a chance from the boom that came from to earn more than $16 an hour effort to clean up 11 million sopping up oil. gallons of North Slope crude oil 
The motels were full. that spilled when the tanker Business was good. Exxon Valdez hit a reef in 
Last week, Exxon halted its Prince William Sound on March summer cleanup, pulling its 24. laborers off the shores of Prince William Sound and "Business has been real sending them home, saying the good," Smith said. "It was shortening daylight hours and crazy. We normally would deal worsening weather made with 200 to 300 people a day. further work ill-advised this We were dealing with over a time of year. Now Valdez faces thousand. We sold stuff we a long winter of problems they never dreamed of selling." 
AP Photo 

left behind. Business remains brisk at the
Wildlife rescue workers pour into Alaska in early April after the Exxon oil spill. Millions of dollars spent on 
Pipeline Club, a popular

the clean up of the nation's largest oil spill flooded the port town of Valdez. 
The 16-bed jail is full and the watering hole since the days of court docket is backed up the construction boom for the because of a record number of trans-Alaska oil pipeline, which
Stock market mixed, Dow Jones 
summer arrests. There's a terminates at Port Valdez. housing shortage. A cleanup­caused labor shortage persists, Bill Lee, manager and co­
average rose, reducing loss 
but some employers are owner, said he extended the reluctant to rehire workers bar's hours because of the Associated Press and again at the close was dropped 0.4 percent in August who abandoned their jobs last demand. It opens at 8 a.m. and 
prompted by the witching hour, for its third consecutive spring for Exxon·s high wages. closes at 5 a.m. 
NEW YORK -The stock involving the last trading in a monthly decline. "It's even better than the market turned in a mixed group of expiring options and And the Commerce "It was short-term bucks, pipeline days," Lee said. "As showing Friday, showing few ill futures on stock indexes. Department said the nation's and in the end it's going to do a long as the spill had to happen, effects from the quarterly There had been concern that trade deficit narrowed to $7.58 lot of damage to this town," it certainly helped the economic "triple witching hour." professional traders engaged in billion in July from a down­said Roger Smith, manager of a picture of this town." 
The Dow Jones average of 30 multiple strategies involving ward-revised $8.01 billion in local hardware store. industrials rose 9. 69 to those contracts would depress June. The small town at the foot of The town's economy is 2,674.58, reducing its loss for the market with a barrage of the Chugach Mountains was the expected to remain strong with the week to 34.96 points. sell orders for stocks. Among actively traded blue end of the rainbow for the more than 200 new long-term 
Declining issues outnumbered But the market got a boost chips, General Electric rose 1 laborers who came in the jobs created by the cleanup. advances, however, by about 5 from the latest data on the 3/8 to 57 1/4; General Motors spring. But most will spend City officials are most to 4 in nationwide trading of state of the economy. gained 5/8 to 49 1/8; their pot of gold elsewhere. concerned about the prospect New York Stock Exchange­International Business Even many of the cleanup of a winter of social problems listed stocks, with 651 up, 837 The Labor Department re­Machines lost 1/4 to 115 1/2, workers who were Valdez generated by so many people down and 505 unchanged. portP.d that the producer price and Eastman Kodak was down residents are returning only with bulging wallets and time 
Heavy activity at the opening index of finished goods 3/8 at 47 3/4. briefly before taking off on on their hands. 


Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, September 18, 1989 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor ...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager... .....Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor. . .......... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor... . . . ................ John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor. . ........... Eric Bailey OTS Director. . ........ Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor .............. Christine Gill Controller ............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol· icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob· jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor·in·Chief. Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
LADI£5 AND G£/JTLEMf:N.CHILDRtN OF ALL IQs! I Dig.f!(T 1"o'f1R A'l'lfl£r¥Tlarl TO TH£ ACC,\.VHE:!<vt: Wt; Of J:J D-T H t: St:L P PR.O CLAIMED E'~.illN"i f/Ll'T'C OF COLWE00/'1· Do WCU:ot!£ '1'1IC SIIJC­5HoW A BSll 'RDI'PY OF TRC 'WoRLD WRt.STLIN~ Pt[JtRATlo.J{,....Jbst'Jlo TTJRJJ A 3fiCkl .S.!I (JJ)DtR AT H~ INTELLECTlMt.. PF.Of!.TITU17oN! /1ilt,VE:'L.AT 'T'tt6. 
IN.I{J/ti17'Y/ AMAze PKl~ BY' flCWAaY C7oJJl0/ PROMOTE VIOLENCE ITH-"71115 PRHUPt TO Tt!E BENtnAL 
BOUT.' 

Students use pens to Save lives across world 
Hy George Lop('z 
I don't think tlwre was a dry 
snt of eyes in thn plaen. 
Even lwfore he began to read 
from his prPparPd text, the au­
dinnce of about one thousand 
faculty, students and towns­
pnople had just given a standing 
ovation to tlw speaker at the 
podium. A sort-spoken and 
slnndnr Uruguayan is his narly 
fifties. lw had bt)()ll released 
from La Libnrtad prison a 
month narlinr. 
Tho cheers and tears were promptPd by the speaker's eornmnnt as lw first looknd out into tlw crowd: 
"I ean truly say that I am alivn today becausn a little eol­Iegn in a small American city stopped them from killing me. I am still a human being capable of life bneause you made me aware of my precious life ... Yo11r first package of let­ters made the guards think I was some kind of personal­ity ... by the second month I had resolved to survive this ordeal because I had to come and say, "thank you." 
That scene of four years ago, when I was faculty advisor to the Earlham College Amnesty International group, plays out in my mind often when I speak with people about the effective­ness of groups like Amnesty's letter writing campaigns for prisoners of conscience (POC). 
The speaker that day, lliber Conteris. had been the adopted POC of our campus group and of another group at the Univer­sity of Wisconsin-Madison, for nearly four years. What led to Iliber's situation as a POC was not unusual in the Latin Amer­ica seventies. 
After returning from a Euro­pean conference of Christian peace and justice groups in De­cember, 1976, this former Meths>dist minister turned 
journalist and author was ar­
rested by security police in 
Montevideo. While some of his 
acquaintances had been mem­
bers of the Tupamaro guerilla 
group. lliber's own work and 
writings had rejected violent 
options for Uruguay's social 
and economic ills. 

But in a wave of generalized 
mpression, as was his nation in 
the mid-seventies, such distinc­
tions did not make a difference 
for a ruling military which con­
sidered criticism a criminal ac­
tivity. I liber was held incommu­
nicado (i.e., without rights to 
communicate with persons out­
side his prison cell) and without 
charge until March, 1977. Be­
tween that time and the early 
eighties he was moved between 
two different sites of incarcera­
tion and, a has too often been 
the fate of political prisoners, 
he was the subject of brutal 
torture. 

Under these conditions he "confessed" to "illegal associa­tions, intrusion and assault upon the constitution." He was "convicted" by a military tri­bunal, without being able to present a defense, and sen­tenced to fifteen years in prison. Amnesty International began work on the case, and, by the seventies, groups like those at Wisconsin and Earl­ham were writing letters to government officials and prison wardens in an effort to improve his treatment while in prison and to petition for a review of his case and his release. 
After many months of stead­fast letter writing by freshmen waiting in lunch lines and sophomores on study breaks, we received word that Hiber was being permitted to see a lawyer. After nearly six months of sending buttons to U.S. and Uruguayan officials which read "Free Biber Conteris" we re­ceived word that he had been 
moved to more humane condi­tions and was permitted tore­ceive visitors. One of these, Biber's sister, learned during a January 1983 visit that Hiber was receiving large seale sup­port. One prison official admit­ted that during a two month period in 1982 some 2,500 cards and letters demanding Iliber's release had come to the prison. 
It seems that the Good Samaritans posing as college students in the U.S. had made a difference. As rather average biology, literature or account­ing majors, with no special political orientation beyond a belief in the dignity of all hu­man beings, they were making in his early sixties, was a car­a government and its prison penter and labor organiznr system remember that they whose non-violent protests of were watching. The student ae-wagP conditions led to his ar­tions were neither extraordi-rnst in August. 1986. For pPri­nary, nor time consuming-one ods of time in the nighties his meeting every few weeks and a wife has also hnnn arrested for promise to send letters to similar activities. Uruguay with thn same fre-If you an· intnrnstml in IParn­qunney that they would write ing about Mr. Fazzi and !wiping home saying "send mmwy". his situation and that of otlwr 
For a number of years now POCs think about joining the same pattern has oceurred An11wsty's campus group. here at Saint Mary's and Notrn Dame. Amnesty lntPrnational George /,opez (~(I he Gotwrn­Group 43 is based on thn cam-ment /Jepartment and Peace In­puses and we have worked for stitute. senws along with Joe the better tnmtment and re-lncarzdela as facully liason of lease of a South African POC. Amnesty fnlernationa/, Group Mutile llrmri Fazzi. Fazzi, now 43. 

LETTERS 
Working mothers shouldn't be made the fall-guys 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to express my discontent over a political car­toon The Observer ran on Sept. 
14. It stated "You've come a long way, baby--and so has your baby," and depicted a working mother with her alco­hol and drug-ridden child. The cartoon implies that if mothers work, their children will become alcoholics and drug addicts, and if mothers stayed home, their kids would not get into trouble. 
This view is insensitive and oversimplifies the plight of the working mother. What about fathers? Do they have any re­sponsibility as to raising thP. kids and how the kids turn out? 
Teenage alcohol and drug 
abuse has been a problem long 
before women enternd the work force in large numbers. It is not justifiable to say that beeausr, a mother is working she is ne­glecting her child. 
/,ynn Klunzin'ger Knoll 1/all Sept. 14, 1989 


Today Viewpoint welcomes campus editorial cartoonist Jay Hosler to its pages. Hosler, of Huntington, Indiana, is a graduate student in neurobiology. He holds an undergraduate degree from DePauw University, where he spent three years as editorial cartoonist for The 
DePauw. 
"Why do I cartoon? I don't know." says Hosler. "Maybe I just like to see my name in print." Hosler's weekly cartoons will appear in addition to those of syndicated cartoonists Steve Benson and Jim Borgman. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Gt.T TH/5, HONE3Y. 

H& OlaATW TH/3 RULeS TO 


Mti/NWHI~ A 5CANTII--Y QA[} 

/AJ8U, I GU&£6
5TA!<TING N8XT I 
/rl£3. TH/3 OBJE£T OF TH/3 
V/X£N PRANC/35 AR{){)N[) PrJ!NT­
" ... AN[} A 
I'M AS R&ADY

Y8A!<-T!<i.JMP, KNOIA/. .. 
GAM8 IS TO SAY MR.TRUMPS 
lNG AT P/1£5 OF PRIZES. I {JIN'T 
GlAMOROUS 
A?I'U8VeR..

7H86AME3 
NAM/3 AS MANY TIM8S AS 
IMA61NB WHIJ:T KINO OF WO­
/<J5a!N8R
I 
ee.t '
5HOW.1 

MAN a/OU£0 /?11.31<. \ 
FROM

RJSS/Bl8. --......... ----
AUDmoN FOR. 
LA-Z-BOY/ 

~Of A JOB' 
'What this shows us is that we are very capable of playing most people and winning. We very humbly accept this win. But we deserved it..' 
Lou Holtz 
Septemper 16, 1989 

------------------------~--~----~--~----------------------------­



Accent
Monday, September 18, 1989 page 9 

COLLEEN CRONIN 
assistant accent editor 
S 
eptembPr, 1939-50 
years ago this month ­
Hitler invaded Poland. 
It was an act that marked the bnginning of a new era in world history. Even though 15 years beforehand America and her allies had won "the war to end all wars," Eu­rope was deteriorating again. 
Hitler was on the rampage, the nightmare we know as the I lolocaust was in the making, and America was on the verge of entering "the war to make the world safe for democracy"­the second World War. 
When WWll began, the Uni­versity of Notre Dame was a small secluded university sur­rounded by farmland, and had an enrollment of less than half of what it is now. These cir­cumstances made for an atmo­sphere that was much different from now. 
One of the most obvious dif­ferences was the campus itself. Much of North Quad had not been built yet, and Mod Quad was not even a thought. The Hockne Memorial looked across to farmland and the stadium as O'Shaughnessy was not yet there. The Bookstore was a bog where stud(mts used to play football, and what was the Hud­dle at that time is now home to the band. 
The size of the student body has also changed. The enroll­ment was only about 3000 men (no women yet) and created a closer, more personal rapport among the students. The Scho­lastic was the weekly pub­lication -The Observer did not make its debut until 1966 ­and had many personal jokes about the students, like "It's one week until finals and Otto still hasn't started his paper," that all the students must have understood. 
When the War broke out in Europe, Notre Dame was con­scious and aware, but it seemed so far removed from campus that life went on as usual. 
December 8, 1941. The day after Pearl Harbor was at­tacked, the announcement ev­eryone knew was imminent: America had entered the War. Student life took a drastic turn. 

The major change at the Uni­versity was the arrival of the Navy. The ROTC programs had been here, but Notre Dame was selected for a Naval training base for naval aviation cadets. Over the course of the War, four dorms-Lyons, Morrissey, Ho­ward, and Badin -became home to 1000 midshipmen eve­ry six weeks. A Navy Drill Hall was built south of what is now Fieldhouse Mall, and due to the difficulty of serving all the Navy men plus the Notre Dame stu­dents, the dining hall had to be changed to a cafeteria. 
Many new classes were added to the curriculum in keeping up with the international situation and ranged from plant safety to military courses to war eco­nomics. Enrollment in the Col­lege of Engineering skyrocketed, and lights blazed in Cushing well into the night as students and professors put in extra time for the war. 
Hugh O'Donnell, president of Notre Dame, instituted a trimes­ter system so students could fin­ish a four-year curriculum in two and two-thirds years in­stead, and because if students were called to the War it would be easier for them to return and finish their studies with less of a time lapse. So the only large break the students had was Christmas. Notre Dame had the distinction of becoming a Key Center for War Information along with the Universities of Purdue and Indiana. One of their purposes was to provide printed bulletins of the War sit­uation as part of a national net­work. United States War Bonds and Stamps were sold at all the home football games. 
A calm attitude was enforced throughout the War years, espe­cially at the very beginning. An editorial in the Dec. 12,1941 is­sue of the Scholastic said "What, specifically, shall we do during this interim of relative inactivity? First of all, we must study... Then, too, we must re­main at all times as calm as possible whenever a personal crisis arises." 
An open letter from the Presi­dent of Notre Dame in the same issue pledged the full support of Notre Dame to President Roose­velt, and said that there was "no reason why students should become unduly alarmed at this time... Go about your normal ways until such time as our country calls. This is what Notre Dame expects of you ... This is the best way to serve our coun­try." 
Over the course of this week, we will try to give an idea of what Notre Dame was like dur­ing World War II. We will bring you interviews with some of the professors that were called to duty, and the impact that the Navy had on the campus, as well as a look at campus life. 
page 10 The Observer Monday, September 18, 1989 
The Observer accepts class111eds every busmess day I rom 10 a m. to 3 30 p.m at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12:30 to 3 p m at the Sa1nt Mar{s ott1ce. Haggar College Center Deadline tor next day class1f1eds 1s 3 p m. All class1f1eds must be 
prepaid. The charge IS 2 cents per character per day. rncludrng spaces
Classifieds 
WILL TRADE 2 MICH.ST./ND I NEED TWO TICKETS FOR THE
MOM NEEDS RESPONSIBLE NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S NEED 2 SMU GA's

NOTICES 

FOOTBALL TIX AND/OR I HOTEL MICH. ST. GAME. PLEASE CALL
STUDENT TO HELP WI 9 YR OLD AND ONE STUDENT. WILLING TO Call joe: 2647 ROOM FOR NO/USC WEEKEND LAWLORAT3287BOY. MUST HAVE OWN

PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard PAY GOOD$$$$ X3107-JIM
FOR 2 ND/USC FOOTBALL TIX. ------------------------------------­
TRANSPO. FOR MORE INFO CALL

3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 271-9895-TESSA
CAL (407) 727-8354 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
BETH @ 234-7444. -------------------------------------NEED USC GA TIX
$$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO EITHER 
WE BUY AND SELL USED NEED 2 PITT GA'S PLEASE CALL NO-PITT OR ND-USC. ANY
Travel Tour Operator needs tickets CALL CHERI 2605 THE GROOVE IS LOOK FOR A
TEXTBOOKS !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! KATHYX2761 SECTION. TIM SOSNOWSKI X-
for all N.D. games -home and away, $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 4043BASS PLAYER. ANYONE 
especially MSU, USC and Miami. --------------------------------­
INTERESTED? DIG. CALL LEROY

My husband & I are longing to adopt WE DESPERATELY NEED TICKETS 
Premium price paid. Immediate case HELP! NEED 2 MICH ST. TIX!
AT X2932 OR LOLIN X1354

a child. We have gone through a TO ANY HOME GAME. WILLING
available. Will trade for all major $X1308 
home study and have been approved TO PAY BIG $$! PLEASE HELP! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
sporting events including Final 4, -----------------------------------­
by a licensed agency. if you should CALL X1338 ASK FOR JENNIFER DESPERATELY NEEDED­
Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will IF YOU HAVE MICH. ST. TIX TO
We need a couch/sofa ASAP. If you'd

know of anyone who iS considering OR EVELYN MICHIGAN STATE TIX!!!!
also buy season tickets. Please call SELL CALL 1308 like to sell yours, please call x3442. 
releasing a child for adoption, please 
NEED 3 STUDENT TIX AND 4 call Marie or Rick collect 
Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. ------------------------------------­
NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT NEED ANY OR ALL STU. TIX. FOR GA'S. (219) 259-0160 
WANTED: 4 ND/USC tickets. Pat TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN STATE NEW ROOMMATE. PLEASE HELP! BIG MONEY BIG MONEY!!!!
BOSTWICK CALL)ONPAULAT X1603

Burns (317)84s-1500 or (317) 75s-4056 GAME WILL PAY $$$$CALL BILL 271-5686
DISTRICT 1 SENATEWord processing experience plus BA $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$(nights). 

271 8483

in English 271-0682. -i-Ni~~-~-~irr-Tic~~~~-c~LL 277­
______________________________:,. 
Will TRADE: PITT, NAVY, or SMU 9281 OR X2760.

FOR SALE: 2 Mich. St. student tix.
STU TIC for MSU TIC

If you haven't picked up your WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$ NEED 3 GA'S (PREFERABLY
Make offer. BILL X1924.
or will pay $$CASH$$Value Check coupon book, please TOGETHER) FOR MICHIGANCall Kelly @4853. 

pick them up from the Information 

STATE -> CALL MIKE X1151 Desk, 1st Floor LaFortune. HELP FULFILL MY 
GRANDPARENT'S LIFELONGBABYSITTER NEEDED FOR 11Open 9am-9pm weekdays, and DREAM. SELL ME 2 MICHIGANMONTH OLD. ANY OR ALL
Noon-9pm weekends. ~~L~ED~~-~~-M_Y_C~-Lt~RALLy NEED 2 GA AND 1 STU TICKET 
STATE GAS. CALL PETE 288-2348 AFTER 6 PM. REPRESSED RELATIVES FROM FOR MICH ST. CALL CHRIS NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. STMORNINGS (s-12) A WEEK. 4 
HOUSES OFF ANGELA. 234-8743.
TYPING AVAILABLE. 

PLEASE!!!!!! MY LITTLE SIS IS 287-4082. COMING OUT+ PARENTS WILL 
WYOMING BY SELLING ME 2 AT X1067. 
$$$$USC TICKETS NEEDED$$$ GA'S OR STUDENT 
PART-TIME ASSISTANT COACH GA'S TOMICH ST. X1859 N-~~D--S~~iR~L-~ITI-~~~5 
KILL ME IF SHE OOES'NT GO.
NEEDED FOR LOCAL AGE GROUP 

PLEASE!! #2819 WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADEIF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASESWIM TEAM. 2-3 NIGHTS PER

LOST/FOUND 
TIX! CALL MATT #3489 CALL CAROL AT 283-4220. 

WEEK. PREVIOUS 

DESPERATELY SEEKING 5 USC Lost: pr. black Vuarnets. Left at 
COACHING/SWIM LESSON 

NEED UP TO 6 USC TICKETS. LaFortune's Auto-bank teller on HAVE TWO PITT G.A. TICKETS MONEY IS NO PROBLEM. CALL
EXPERIENCE HELPFUL. CALL 233­9/11, at 11:05 AM. Call Tim X4043 ANDWOULD LIKE TO TRADE FOR
1366 OR 232-0589. 

JIM AT X1236. TWO USC G.A.'S, FOUND: PR. OF HARD PLEASE CALL X4023 
Need 1 Mich St stud and 1 USC tik

FOR RENT
CONTACTS outside of LYONS 

HAVE 1 SMU stud & $$ HALL Please see Sister jeannine of NEEDED TWO MICHIGAN STATE 
Chris x18616 BEDROOM HSE 8 BLKS FROM

Lyons if they are yours. TIX -STUD OR GA. HELP TWO
ND. ROOMS FOR RENT OR TAKE Sell me 2 GA's for MICHIGAN ST. 
H ....... E ..... L.. ... P ALUMNI. CALL#4041
ENTIRE HSE. 288-3613. Call Laura x2851
FOUND: MIKE FROM MAINE, I NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER) FOR $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 FOUND YOUR WALLET IN Cl/01 ANY GAME. WILL PAY BIG 
MICH ST GA'S CALL CHERIE LOT ON 9/11. TO CLAIM CALL BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY MOOLAH ($$). PLEASE CALL jEFF 
4969. 1069. 277-3998. MY UNCLE NEEDS 4 GA'S TO 
Need I tix for Michigan State219-291-7153. 
Student or G.A. 
USC. CHRIS X3526$Cash$ or trade(USC or PITT)
FOUND: TAN PUPPY WITH DESPERATE $$$
Call Mike 2031
LEATHER COLLAR NEAR TURTLE HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT NEED ONE USC STUDENT NEED 4 STU. & 4 GA TIX FOR Need 6 USC GA tix CREEK. CALL 272-8124 OR 272-7759. THE "IRISH B&B" FOR TICKET. 
MIC. ST. X232-9857 Please call Steve: 1605 ----------------------------------FOOTBALL WEEKEND5--RING MONEY NO OBJECT!
NEED GA's: 2 for Pitt 
and 3 for USC
LOST -GOLD HS CLASS RING 272-7738 CALL TONY AT 1468. 
NEED 2 GA AND I STUD. TICKET W/TIGER ON FACE & STATE r------------, $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ FOR MICHIGAN STATE. CALL CHAMPIONSHIP RING, BOTH NEED I MICH. ST. STUDENT, 1 call Sue x2485 
CIIRIS X1067. FROM ROCK SPRINGS IIIGH USC TIC HAVE I SMU STUD. $$

FOR SALE 

I NEED 2 SMU STUDENT TIX -­
SCHOOL LARGE REWARD CHRIS 1861.
PLEASE CALL BILL AT 3340 I NEED GAs FOR STATE 
$$$ NEED 2 PITT OR 2 SMU OFFERED. X1861 COLOR TV RENTALS IT'LL HELP ME GET A MATE. 
. TIX 'PAY BIG$$$

-----------------------------------13-INCH, $50/SEM, $80/YR; NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITT. 
SO CALL 2600 AND LEAVE A CALL CIIERYL X262<J
LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH RING 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; CALL DAVE 1597. 
MESSAGE. 

OUTSIDE O'SI!AG. DIAMOND 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR STONE CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE 

Need GA's for ALL home games and Miami. Will pay big$. x2335REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL DELIVERY NEED 4 OR 5 GA's FOR USC!II 
X2670 OR 277-9281 IF FOUND. COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272-5959 CALL MIKE 232-5571 I REALLY NEED 2 MICHIGAN
'89 NO GRAD SELLING '82 OLDS STATE GA'S. PLEASE CALL LOST: jEAN JACKET WITII WAGON. GOOD CONDITION,CORDUROY COLLAR. JACKET I need 10 Mich. St. Tix!! I have 2 BETH-X4852RUNS WELL NO PROBLEMSliAS A TEAR BElliNO TilE NECK Pitt Tix to sell Pat xl857STARTING OR MAINTAINING.
AND HAS A 1988 US OLYMPIC PIN 
WANTED: USC vs. 
I REALLY NEED 4 MSU TICKETS.
$1200 <NEG.) GREAT FORON TilE LEFT POCKET. REWARD 

NEED MICII. ST. TIX!! 
Pitt tix desperately needed!! 
CALL BEN AT 1126. 
SCHOOL, BETTER FOR GETTING 

NO TICKETS 
I'LL GIVE YOU ANYTHING.
OFFERED FOR RETURN. CALL call KEVIN 1636TO & FROM. CALL CHRIS AT (312) 
CALL TRACY 3865. 935-8368 AFTER 7 PM. 
MARK. X3467 

24hr. answering service 
NEED 2 TIX TO ND-MICH ST. 
-------------------------------------HELP! I NEED STUDENT&GA TIX
(213) 487-4161 
$$CALL #IH<J9LOST !! GOLD CHAIN WITH 

PLEASE! FAMILY COMING FROM FOR USC.$$$CALL MIKE AFTER CROSS, sometime Thurs 9/14 
Home (213)422-2812
1980 4 door Honda Accord CA. NEED MICH. ST. OR USC TIX. 8PM AT 289-9811. 

Call #3619 -Price Negoti<1ble HELP! Stephen Needs 2 Ml STATE
MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE HELP! Need 4 Pitt GAs for my family HAVE $$ OR TIX TO TRADE. PLS. ------------------------------------­TIX call #3936 or #3525PLEASE call Christine at 2905 ~ Call Chad x1132 CALL CRAIG EGAN 3383. THANX. 
DESPERATELY NEED MICH. if found. Reward. 

TICKETS 

STATE GA TIX. CALL LAURA 284­llelp! I Need Tickets! I nel'd 12
Need 1. STU for Mich St and 4 SMU 1 NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S. 5204.'L~s-~;-i~-~~Y-~N-E-~i<:~~D UP M) L-------__J Kim3881 BIG MONEY OR TRADE FOR PITT SMU G.A.'s, and a student ticket
GAS JEAN JACKET AT SENIOR BAR NEED 4 TIX FOR MI STATE! TICKETS. CALL LANCE 1382. 
to any home game for my sister at YOU NEED MSU STUD TIC. 
West Virginia University who wants
WEDNESDAY NIGIIT, PLEASE PLEASE CALL #3803 Need up to 4 Mich St & 8 Pitt TIX I NEED GAS $$$$. CALL W A TIS to see a real football game.
CALL JOliN OWENS #3087. IT HAS -------------------------------------Money no problem!! Mike X1236 HELP! NEED 2 MSU GA'S AND 3 X3500 & LEAVE YOUR OFFER. 
Call Gina at X2690. 

TIIANKS. STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH OR ACCOUNT. CALL K. 2597. EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR NAVY I ABSOLUTELY MUST II AVE 2 MY LAUNDRY TAG ON IT. NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN USC GA'S! LARGE EXPENSE 
I Need Tix For Any Home Game, 
HAVE MICHIGAN STATE
GAME. CALL TIM, FLANNER SMU GA'S!! (GRANDPARENTS
GA or Student. Call Matt 283-3372 HELP! I NEED TICKETS 
STUDENT TICKET. CALL 3817 COMING!) PLEASE CALL STEVEHALL EXT. 1143.
LOST: Pair of Prescription 12SMU BEST OFFER! 
x2400.

GLASSES in a brown, felt case. I need Mich. state tix--GAs 2 usc 
WANTED-"10" PITT-NOTRE

Please call Stacy x4120 if found. and student tix for my wealthy AND A TICKET TO ANY HOME ------------------------------------­
DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR 

girlfriend and her family. GAME FOR MY SISTER AT WEST Need many MIAMI tix. SAT. 10/28/89. PLEASE CALL PAT 
Please call john at 3586 VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY WHO $ $ $ $ COLLECT AT (412) 372-3000. 

WANTED 

and leave a message. WANTS TO SEE A REAL FOOTBALL Barry 289-8417. 
Need 2 GA's for MICll ST & up toGAME. CALL GINA AT 2690 4 PITT. Will Pay. Call Beth 3706 
NEED MICH. STATE TIX!! INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY CALL TODD AT x4358 or 4618 I NEED GA'S FOR ALL HOME 
ATTENTION: EXCELLENT I Need USC-SMU-PITT-MICH TIX ------------------------------------­
Stud. or GA WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 -------------------------------------GAMES AND MIAMI. WILL PAY 
CALL Mike #2742 

Need 2 GA's to either NAVY or 
Need 2 GAs for Mich St. Big $ 
DEPT. P5868. NEED 2 SMU TIX-GA OR STU. BIG. X2335 SMU. Please call Dave-#3313. 
or trade Pitt-Call Lance-1382
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL EXCHANGE 2 

-------------------------------------NAME YOUR PRICE!!! -----------------------------------­
CALL MATT #3489 I ABSOLUTELY MUST HAVE 2 
I NEED USC GA'S!!!!!!!!!!!!
GA'S FOR USC 2 GA'S FOR NAVY ------------------------------------GA'S FOR SMU!! 

Am willing to trade Mich St. Pitt,OR PAY CASH. CALL TIM, 
MICHIGAN STATE GA TIC GRANDPARENTS; PLEASE CALL 
Navy, SMU, and Purdue or pay big
FLANNER HALL, EXT. 1143. PITT or USC GAs needed
NEEDED FOR DAD. WILL PAY BIG STEVE X2400 desparately. Please tall$$$.CALL 1224. ------------------------------------~?-~~~::_:~!!_~::_~!_:~~=~~~~---­
Mike at #2288.

-------------------------------------HELP, THE WHOLE FAMILY IS HELP ME 
NEEDED: Stu. NAVY. Have PITT or COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED !lAVE 2 MICHIGAN ST. GA'S SHENANIGANS is looking for I NEED MICH ST. & USC TIX NEED SEVERAL PITT TIX 
$$$. Contact Matt X2647 Steds LOTS OF TICKETS. WILLING TO CALL AMY X3717 spirited bass, piano, sax, and 2 G.A.'S & 4STUDS. PLEASE!! #2819 
-------------------------------------PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN OR ------------------------------------­
horn players. Interested? call CALL NICOLE X2818 
IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 ERIK AT 1622 NEED one Mich. St. Student Ticket.
Walter@ 271-0758. 

MICH ST GA'S CALL CHERIE ------------------------------------­X4969 I NEED MICH. ST TICKETS. YOU Please call Megan, 2518 NEED 2 MSU GA'S AND 4 STUDENTTIX BADLY. WILL PAY
V-Tapes all \9Bs-89 N.D. football WE NEED MICHIGAN STATE -------------------------------------NEED SOME CASH. CALL KEN AT games. Please call Paul Roy 232-7602 TICKETS: 2 GA AND 2 STUDENT. HELP! I NEED to save my family 3277. 
BIG$$$. CALL MITCH AT 2061. I need 4 GA's for NAVY and 2 ------------------------------------CALL RICHARD OR ANDREA from Minnesota boredom! If you ------------------------------------­Student Tix for PITT.$$$$$$$ call 
I want to buy your PURDUE tickets
WANTED: Male or female student have 4-6 tix for PITT (g.a.) please call Tom@ 287-8648 call Will 4048
photographer, experienced in all AT271-0519. #3762!!$$$$ DESPARATE FOR 2 MSU GA'S 
phases of photography including AND USC STUD. WILL TRADE A darkroom, to work 12 hours/week in NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA OR PITT Help! Help! Help! 
"Need 2 GA's for MSU. Parents I need to find two Mich St GA's or 
ultra-modern University STUDENT BADLY . WILLING TO NEED 5 MICH ST. TIX JOHN 2207 coming, keep me from gettingPAY BIG BUCKS. CALL ERICH AT
photographic facility. Call Bruql CALL DAVE 283-1417 

X1622.

--
llarlan or jaime Cripe 239-73g(J, 
hiring part time waitress tor

Desperately seeking 4 MSU and 4 
PittGA's 


lllnch and dinner hours. Apply Call jenny at 284-4213 
2-5pm at Oriental Express 

6329 University Commons YOU NEED MONEY, WE NEED _,ol Univ Pn Malt on State MONEY. CHICAGO-BASED Roed 23, next 1D Krov-. 272-6702 INNOVATIVE SPORTSWEAR 
COMPANY SEEKS CAMPUS SALES ----------·-------------------------­REPRESENTATIVE. MUST BE TRADE 2 MICHIGAN STATE 
CREATIVE AND ENTHUSIASTIC. TICKETS FOR 2 USC TICKETS 
PLEASE PHONE 312-943-6105. CALL X2766 student tix and am wiling to pay 
grounded. Call Greg x1489" mucho $$ Call Mike at x2002I NEED 8 MSU GA'S. CALL BRIAN 
288-8527 OR KIM 284-4169. I NEED ONE USC STUDENTI NEED 3 MICH. ST. GA'S 
TICKET-PLEASE CALL
CALL BILL X4274 LET'S TRADE! 
Please save me from the wrath of my BILL AT3340HAVE: HOTEL ROOMS FOR sister. I will trade pitt stud tixMICHIGAN STATE WEEKEND. 
and/or pay lots of$$ for MichiganNEED: 2 ND/USC GA'S. 
State studs or gas! Call Tim 1064. 
Help Two Brothers coming in forHELP! I NEED 2 MICH ST TIX. MEGAN 4825. 
Mich St Need two tckts Stud or GAPLEASE CALL KRIS X2674 
*******"'"'*"'•****TRA DE•••••••• 
Willing to pay call Keven #2300 MICH. ST. STUDENT TIX. PLEASE PLEASE! I NEED 5 MICH ST TIX! HELP US! CALL 3885. WILL PAY$$. Have: 2 Mich. St.(30 yard line G.A.) CALL MARIA xz870 -----------------------------------Need: 2 U.S.C. Call Tom #3444 
FIVE BEAUTIFUL BABES NEED 
NEED 4 USC CA'S. CALL 271-9830. ,.,.,.,.,..,..,.,.,..,.,.***TRADE•••*•••• 

~ ~~~---~ -~-~-------------------------~~------------------------~----~---------­
Monday, September 18, 1989 The Observer page 11 
The Observer accepts class1fieds every bus1ness day from t 0 a m to 3.30 p m. at thr, Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Marys off1ce Haggar College Center Deadlme for next day class1fieds IS 3 p.m All class1f1eds must be 
prepa1d. The charge IS 2 cents per character per day. mclud1ng spaces


Classifieds 
Need 2 GAs to USC. Have 2 Mich. St. GAs to trade. Evenings 239-7998 NEED 2 USC GA'S Please Call Vin x-2015 i desparately need michigan st. or USC GA's; call bill x3363  BELIEVE IT OR NOT... desparately PE~~•ALS I seeking 3 SMU tickets. It's my ~.;J\,11 ... family's last chance to catch an ND game before I graduate. Come on, ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIJ1' they lost to Rice! I'll even pay you for OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS them.$$$$$ julie x4419 COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A ----~~-~-~~---~-~-~-~--~------------­CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: TICKET EXCHANGE POOR CLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY 1 have 2 Mich. State GA's if you have RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901.  HiAg GOT A GREAT IDEA? SEND AN ARTICLE TO COMMON SENSE P.O. BOX 957 NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 DEADLINE: SEPT 30.  DAVID T.-HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY from your Big Brother. JUST DO IT! Enjoy the'buca! Can we buy your couch/sofa/chair? Please call x3442.  CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 Do you have a pilot's certificate or wish to become a student or private pilot?lntersested in starting a flying club? Call Mike x2215  
2 USC GA's. 1also have hotel  ------------------------------------­ 
need 2 NAVY ga's. Will trade for stud tix (any game) or buy. x3202.  reservations to sell for Mich State weekend. Call Jill at 284-5518.  ADOPTION, A LOVING ALTERNATIVE. 81L ALUM WISHES  DO YOU I-lAVE A PILOT'S CERTIFICATE OR WISH TO  otevay ostwickbay  SENIOR FORMAL COMMITTEE  
TO ADOPT AN INFANT. LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO ADOPT,  BECOME A STUDENT OR PRIVATE PILOT? CALL MIKE 2215.  If interested in planning Senior Formal 1990,  
have stud tix (2, sec 30) for all home games x3202 l NEED AS MANY TICKETS TO  I MSU stud tix for sale call x1310 best offer by 8PM tonite ???? MSU GA????  EXPENSES PAID. CAN BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION,  LYNEAR, WHAT HAPPENED TO YOU THURSDAY AT NOON?  VOTE BOSTWICK DISTRICT 1 SENATE  fill out an information sheet in the Office of Student Activities by noon on Sept 20th.  
USC AS YOU CAN GIVE ME !  CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT  MATT  ROUND TRIP TICKET S. BEND  
STUDENTS OR GA'S. 1WILL PAY Need 4 Ga's!!!!! Call GOOD $$$.CALL BOB AT x2313. at x1684  Lloyd  602-482-0905.  DILLON PEP RALLY!!  BOSTWICK BOSTWICK  TO DENVER FOR FALL BREAK FOR SALE AMY X3717  
Attention ND Students!  DILLON PEP RALLY!!  GOT THE POINT YET?  
I NEED 3 GAS (PREFERABLY TOGETHER) FOR ANY HOME GAME. CALL KAREN @ 284­4173. I have 2 MICH ST GA's to trade for 2 PITT GA's. Also need to buy more PITT GA's in pairs. Call Andy at  PARENTS ARE COMING! NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITT! CALL TIM 4043 TICKETS FOR SALE: I stud. USC and I stud. PITT Best Offer So Call Now!  $4.50 Haircuts VITO'S BARBERSHOP M-F 8-5 Sat. 8-4 Closed Wed. Marginally talented guitarist seeks bass and drums for band. Influences­ THURSDAY 7:30 BE THERE!! ***************************** TRANSVESTITE DANCERS come see the BOOM BOOM GIRLS at the DILLON PEP RALLY  VOTE BOSTWICK DISTRICT I SENATE HAVE A GREAT DAY TOPH!! GOOD LUCK IN YOUR NEW  To my dearest honey, Tami, I love you more as each day passes by. I can't wait to see you in Oct. .. .. love you always and forever. Vincent Happy Birthday to Raja Singh!! And  
xl965 or Will at x1876.  Cynthia x1282  -Tom Waits, Graham Parker, Lloyd Cole, Drivin' and Cryin' , Tom  come see: TONY RICE  JOB!  I'M THINKIN' OF YOU !  remember next time you go roadtripping, pack less, lose the  
I need 2 MSU GAs & 1 stud. WILL PAY BIG$$$ Call Shannon at 284-5244.  FOR SALE: set of stu tix for all games except USC. Call 234-0515  Verlaine. Applicants need not be experienced. Call Rick at 1307 for information.  DEAN BROWN DON GRIMM at the DILLON PEP RALLY!!  HAPPY BIRTHDAY, DAVE DESALLE. FROM YOUR FAMILY  Smicks, bring blankets and warm clothes, and win more bets!! Sorry you have to get ripped again!  



Tonight at 7:00pm in 220 Hayes-Healy First General Meeting of ND Finance 
Discussion will include: Career Night Fall Break Trip to Boston Other Events 
TOMORROW NIGHT 
2nd Annual "Career Night" 

6-10pm Monogram Room of the JACC Over 20 firms which actively recruit NO Business Majors will attend!! 
ADWORKS 

KECK'S KLEAR WATER COMPANY 
~ !J~


tJJ! 

Bottled Spring Water Cooler Rental Free Delivery 
For Same Day Service Call 
674-9992 

before 1O:OO AM Monday through Friday 
'78 Trlump Sol!tflre 49,000 miles 3 tops, Pioneer Stereo Dependable and economical $4500-Price negotiable 
232-7665 

Earn $20Q-300 weekly. Travel tour operator needs four students immediately. 1-800-828-8955 
HELLER FINANCIAL, INC. 
A Leader in Diversified Commercial Financial Services 
cordially invites 
MIS CAPP and MCC Seniors to a presentation to discuss CAREER OPPORTUNITIES WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 20, 1989 at Morris Inn Alumni Room 7:00-9:00p.m. 
HAIRCUT. SHAMPOO &BWWDRY 
$1Q95 
• 
No Appointment! 

• 
7 DaiYs a Week! 

• 
Flll!:J!: Ta.nrring -Btzy 4 -Get 4 PBEE! 





Line 
continued from page 16 
best statistical game of his ca­reer with five total tackles. After passing the first big test against Michigan, Dahl might be on the dean's list after this season is over. 
Hight tackle Jeff Aim had two solo tackles and one assist. while starting defensive end Scott Kowalkowski recorded six total tackles and recovered a fumble. The Irish sacked Michigan quarterbacks three times for total losses of 20 yards. 
The Irish made a statement early in the game after winning the coin toss and electing to kiek off. An early Michigan score would have made the 105,000 fans seem more like one million. 
But the defense silenced that drive and the crowd in impres­sive fashion. Michigan ran three plays, gained nine yards and punted. 
"I think in general an offense is usually stopped on the first series," Dahl said, "but that was nice." 
Dahl and Notre Dame set the tone and sent a message. The Michigan offensive line wasn't going to blow Notre Dame off the ball. and the Wolverines certainly weren't going to blow the Irish out of the game. 
Michigan did manage 19 points in the game. but that was something Notre Dame ex­pected. No one could expect the Irish to shut out the defending Big Ten and Hose Bowl champs. 
For the facts <all }Our local Red Cross. or wntt 
.~IDS 
+
Amencan Red Cross 1::!:::: 
WashingtOn. DC 20006 

N.D./MIAMI GAME 
NOV. 24-26, 1989 

5599 Doo==~ 
~gerton's 2~3o McK"l'r:~:.:a~7 
1-800-552-2818 (IND.) 1-800-643-4604 (U.S.A.} 
u 

Monday, September 18, 1989 
Irish 24, Wolverines 19 
Notre Dame 0 7 10 7-24 Michigan 0 6 0 13-19 
ND-A. .Johnson 6 pass from Rice (llnntrich kickl Mich-Calloway 9 pass from Taylor (kick failed) ND-Ismail 88 kickoff return (llentrich kickl ND-FC; llnntrich 30 Mich-Walker 5 pass from Grbac (pass failed) ND-Ismail 92 kickoff return (llnntrieh kick) Mich-McMurtry 4 pass from Grbac (Carlson kickl 
A-105,912.  
ND  Mich  
f<irst downs  n  15  
Hushes-yards  54-220  34-119  
Passing  6  178  
Heturn Yards  2  14  
Comp-Att-lnt  1-2-0  22-28-0  
Punts  3-37  6-34  
Fumbles-Lost  1-0  1-1  
Pemtlties-Yard  5-45  8-70  
Time of Possession  30:23  29:37  

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 
HUSHING-Notre Dame, A.Johnson 20-80, Hicn 18-79, Culver 7-35. Michigan, Hoard 15-56. Boles 5-17, Bunch 5­12. 
PASSING-Notre Dame, Bice 1-2-0-6. Miehigan, Taylor 5­6-0-44, Grbac 17-21-0-134. 
HECEIVING-Notre Dame, A.Johnson I-(J. Michigan, Calloway 7-72, McMurtry 4-51, Bunch 4-8. 

Focus On America's Fut --~~~  
Mock Trial Association Informational Meeting Monday, Sept. 18 5:30pm Montgomery Theatre Notre Dame will participate for the first time in an undergraduate mock trial competition to be held at Drake University School of Law in late February, All undergrads welcome! Come learn more about it! Questions? Contact Megan x4825  

"We knew we were going to the Michigan line to playing give up some points," Dahl West Virginia in the Fiesta said. "But we also knew our of­Bowl. The Mountaineer offen­fense was going to score some sive line came into the game points. We just hoped Tony touted as the best in the coun­(Irish quarterback Rice) would try, but Zorich and Company score more." quickly silenced that claim. 
Rice did score more, with help ''I'm really getting used to it," from Haghib Ismail's two Zorich said of the underdog touchdown returns. The defense role. held when it had to. The Michigan offensive line couldn't Don't be surprised, though, if produce when it had to. the underdogs suddenly become 
Zorich compared the hype for the favorites. 
fff(Q)ffl J(QJdJff~ /MJ(Q)m~ !DaJdl~ & M!MJy /D(Q)@w 







INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
University of Notre Dame 
Foreign Study Program 
Slide Show and Presentation By Professor A. Wimmer 
Monday, September 18, 1989 
ALL ARE WELCOME!!!
4:30P.M. 

Room 114 O'Shaughnessy 

The Observer /Trey Reymond Irish fullback and tri-captain Anthony Johnson runs at the Michigan defense 1n Saturday afternoon's contest at Michigan Stadium. Johnson scored one of Notre Dame's touchdowns on a six-yard pass 
from Tony Rice. 



SMU still celebrating after ending drought 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -It's being called the Miracle on Mockingbird Lane. 
"Everyone said we weren't going to win a game all year," Southern Methodist coach Forrest Gregg said. "We couldn't accept that." 
SMU's 31-30 victory over Connecticut on the last play of Saturday's game was the first for the Mustangs since they re­turned from NCAA death penalty, a two-year exile from college football. 
The Mustangs were whipped 34-6 by Rice in their opener on Sept. 2, snapping the Owls' 18­game losing streak. . 
SMU had two weeks to get ready for Connecticut, a NCAA Division 1-AA school that plays in the Yankee Conference. 
Even so, all looked lost when the II uskies took a 30-14 lead with 7:38 left to play. 
Quarterback Mike Romo, one of 18 freshmen starting for SMU, rallied the Mustangs. He threw a 43-yard scoring pass 
to Mitch Glieber, then com­
pleted a two-point conversion 
pass to Jason Wolf. Then SMU 
recovered an onsides kick and 
Matt Loemenick made a 44­
yard field goal. 
"The biggest decision was 
going for the three points," 
Gregg said. "If we missed that, 
it probably would have been all 
over." 
SMU held, then Romo drove the Mustangs to the Huskies' 5­yard line with two seconds left. 
Romo faded to pass but ap­peared ready to try to run for the score. With five Huskies in pursuit, Romo pulled up short and flipped the winning pass to Mike Bowen. 
"It was supposed to be a quick pass to Jason Wolf, but he was covered so I started to run, then I saw Bowen jumping up and down in the end zone," Romo said. 
The Ownby Stadium crowd of 20,458 stormed the field and a few tried in vain to tear down the steel goal posts. 
The Observer 


Grbac impressive in first outing 
By THERESA KELLY and GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Staff 
ANN ARBOR -Freshman quarterback Elvis Grbac caused enough commotion just by hav­ing his name announced, but his performance on the field had the Irish all shook up. 
Grbac was 17 -of-21, passing for 134 yards after stepping in for the injured Michael Taylor. He engineered two Michigan scoring drives, combining with Chris Calloway for one score and Greg McMurtry for another 
in  his  first  game  as  a  
Wolverine.  
"Grbac  did  a  good  job,"  
Michigan  coach  Bo  

Schembechler said. "He handled himself well in a tough situa­tion; however, it was not totally unexpected that he would play." 
"That young quarterback came in and did a great job," Irish coach Lou Holtz said, more generous with the praise than Schembechler. "He made some excellent throws. I think that kid has a great future." 
Taylor suffered a bruised back on a third-and-eight keeper early in the second half. Schembechler said he could not have played in the second half. 

Irish 
continued from page16 
the same thing, basically. It was a bigger hole this time, and I saw a crease off to the left, and again Rodney Culver was the lead blocker. I felt someone on my legs, then I saw Culver level the kicker or somebody. Then he got back up and I saw a guy who had the angle of pursuit, and Rodney was run­ning stride for stride with him and he just did like this (motioning) and I went on." 
The Wolverines and Grbac weren't grounded yet. Grbac completed passes during a 13­play drive, including a four­yard touchdown pass to Greg McMurtry with 4:08 to go in the game, bringing Michigan to within five, 24-19. The Irish were ready for Michigan's ensuing on-side kick, which hit 
.,~ Pan-Tech -A.C.C.S 
....:Advanced Custom Computer Systems 
IBM XT/AT Compatibles -Printers -Modems Supplies -Accesories -Service 
surge Center $22 Surge Protector $9 
• Max energy Dissipation so joules • Max energy Dissipation 50 joules
* 
Max spike voltage: 6000 volts • Max spike voltage: 6000 volts

* 
Max spike current: 6500 amps * Max spike current: 4SOO amps 


• 6 outlets with individual switchs * 6 outlets with a sinqle switch 
70/120 Piece Disk Storage Box ...........$9/12 2400 Baud Modem with 5 Year Warranty ..•.$159 Wire Frame Printer Stands (80 column) ... $15 Joystick (IBM compatible) ...............$20 
but will be fine when the Wolverines take on UCLA next week. 
"Michael Taylor is a fine quarterback," Schembechler said. "If he is healthy, you will see him in there." 
. Irish fullback Anthony 
Johnson dominated the game in 
the first half, rushing for 65 
yards on 14 carries. He also 
caught Notre Dame's only pass 
completion of the day, a six­
yard touchdown pass in the 
first quarter, set up by his 23­
yard run to the Michigan nine­
yard line. 
"I knew we'd have to get some yards up the middle, and that we'd have to make them play honest," Johnson said, "and that's a tribute to the of­fensive line, really. All five guys up front, including the tight end. They controlled the line. 
"They were great hitters," Johnson said of the Michigan defense. "We knew that. They did a good job, Their lineback­ers hit hard, and that's what a football game is all about. If you can't go out there and hit someone, and you can't enjoy 
hitting  someone,  then  you  
probably  shouldn't  be  out  
there."  

a Wolverine player at their own 38-yard line, where the Irish took over. 
Tony Rice and Anthony Johnson ran Notre Dame's time-consuming offense, includ­ing a fourth-and-one play where Michigan couldn't keep Johnson back, giving the Irish another set of downs and time on their side. 
The Irish played the entire game on the ground, complet­ing only one of two passes for a grand total of six yards. 
"We played very, very conser­vatively,"Holtz said. "Obviously, because of the weather. We just wanted to control the football and we thought our kicking game was very, very sound. 
"We didn't do anything spec­tacular. We didn't throw the ball. We didn't want to open it up. We did not want to give Michigan anything they did not earn." 
Ismail's 192 yards in returns 
ND TICKETS NEEDED 
.AU.. 
Games 

Call TODAY for 
immediate CASH 
1-800-828-8955 
The Wolverines lost their opener to Notre Dame last sea­son, but still bounced back to win the Big Ten title and the Rose Bowl. Don't be surprised if that happens again. 
"We have the potential to be a good team and we probably will be a good team," Schembechler said. "This game was impor­tant, but it isn't going to ruin our season. 
"Notre Dame is a better foot­
ball team than Michigan. They 
may not be at the end of the 
year, but they are now. You've 
got to give them credit." 
The Wolverine press guide does not list a coach for the special teams. A writer asked Schembechler about this. 
"Bo Schembechler," Bo re­sponded. "He coaches special teams, guards, receivers, quar­terbacks, tackles...he coaches them all." 
The Irish win marked the first time Schembechler has lost to the same team three consecutive years...Michigan issued more than 900 media credentials to set a new record. 
.Schembechler's record against Notre Dame fell to 4-6. 
and 16 yards rushing gave him 
208 all-purpose yards for the 
day, two less than the rest of 
the offense. 
"There are a lot of people who are track people who are playing football," Holtz said, "but he (Ismail) is a football player who also runs track. He has great moves, football in­stincts and outstanding foot­ball talent. 
"He got some great blocks. He gave a great effort and took a heck of a shot. I thought Michigan made a very valiant effort, but once you get him in the open field ... " 
"Each time you go out," Ismail said, "regardless of if you returned it the first time, you want to have a positive feeling in your mind of return­ing it for good yardage." 
On the other side of the ball, 
the Irish held Michigan to 17 
points, despite Grbac's 17 -of­
21, 134 yard passing day. The 
Irish took a page from 
Michigan's storied past, bend­
ing but not breaking on de­
fense. 
"Our defense played very well, particularly out rushing de­fense," Holtz said. "I thought our secondary made an awful lot of critical tackles. It was a typical Michigan-Notre Dame football game, a very physical football game, hard fought, hard-played. Anytime we come up here to Ann Arbor and walk 


F86-10 XT $660 Complete system includes: 
0  512KB-RAM  
0  84-key keyboard  
0  12" monochrome  monitor  
0  5.2511  360K  floppy  drive  
0  Built in color graphics  
emulation  
0  Full service & support  
program  included  

Call (219) 271-0444 or 271-0992 To Make An Appointment Today! 
CAPT GAGLIO 219-239-6634 
--------~------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer Monday, September 18, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS

Cubs drop second straight to Bucs 
Associated Press St. Louis has lost seven of its pitching one-hit ball for seven 
last nine, falling five games be­innings Sunday as the Kansas 
PJTTSBUHGH Doug hind Chicago, the National City Royals beat the Orioles 7 -r Drabek defeated Chicago for League East leaders. Red Sox 7, Athletics 6 the third time in four decisions. Expos 1, Mets 0 BOSTON -Nick Esasky Pittsburgh has won seven of MONTREAL Mark homered for his 1OOth RBI and eight against the Cubs, St. Langston pitched a three-hitter the Boston Red Sox beat Louis and New York. Chicago to win for the second time in Oakland, completing a three­lost for the second time in eight seven starts. Langston, 12-7, game sweep of the American games. struck out nine and walked five League West leaders. 
Drabek, 13-11, allowed eight in his fourth National League Oakland's lead was cut to 2 hits. struck out seven and shutout and sixth complete 1/2 games by both Kansas Citv walked none. Mike Bielecki, 16-game. and California. The Athletics, 7, lost for the second time in 10 In other National League who went 5-7 against Boston decisions since July 14, giving games. Los Angles edged this season, had not been swept up two runs and seven hits in Atlanta 4-3, Houston shut out in a three-game series since five innings. Cincinnati 1-0 and San June 26-28 in MinnP.sota. 
Francisco split a doubleheader
Phillies 9-0, Cardinals 5-2 
PIIILADELPIIIA Cris with San Diego. Angels 6, White Sox 3 Carpenter allowed five hits in 7 CHICAGO -Mike Witt won 1-3 innings and drove in a run Royals 7, Orioles 0 for just the second time in eight as St. Louis won the second BALTIMORE Bret decisions and the California game. In the first game, John Saberhagen became the Angels beat the Chicago White 
Kruk hit a two-out, grand slam American League's first 20-Sox for their seventh victory in in the 12th off Matt Kinzer, 0-2 game winner this season, nine games. 
Raghib Ismail will be the special guest on Sportstalk from 8 to 9 p.m. tonight on WVFI-AM 640. Call 239-6400 with questions. 
Sailing Club will give lessons today through Wednesday at the boathouse for all interested members. Bring a check for dues. 
Cycling Club will meet at 4 p.m. Tuesday at the main circle. Call x3472 for more information. 
In NFL action Sunday, Philadelphia rallied to defeat 
Washington 42-37, Los Angeles Hams downed Indianapolis 
31-17. Chicago eased past Minnesota 38-7, Atlanta beat 
Dallas 27-21, San Francisco nipped Tampa Bay 20-16, 
New York Giants defeated Detroit 24-14, Cincinnati 
crushed Pittsburgh 41-10. 
Also, Miami knocked off New England 24-10, Green Bay squeaked past New Orleans 35-34, Cleveland beat New . York Jets 38-24, Phoenix got past Seattle 34-24 and 
Houston downed San Diego 34-27. 


Volley 
continued from page 16 
parts and perfunctorily put points on the scoreboard to down the Irish 15-3. 
Pacific jumped out to an early 13-2 lead in the third game be­fore the Irish could slam on the brakes . 
A bloodied but unbowed Irish squad hustled to stay in the game, fighting back to within six at 13-7. But untimely ser­vice errors, which plagued Notre Dame all weekend, com­bined with missed hitting op­portunities to add up to yet an­other Irish loss. 
"I was pleased with the way everyone played at times," Lambert said. "We couldn't sustain our play over time, but we definitely played better than we did against Pittsburgh. 
"We have to be realistic about our expectations and be opti­mistic about about our future. We have a lot of maturing to do as a team, but we played a team that could very easily be in the Final Four at the end of the season and we have to take that into consideration." 
Lambert took comfort in his team's play against Pacific after witnessing a lethargic Irish squad lumber through its paces earlier in the day against Pittsburgh. 
The Panthers ran up a 13-1 lead in the first game, despite nodding off at times, as they took the first game over a Irish team which could not get its game working on all cylinders. the Irish, hampered by mental errors and lackadaisical play, could not put a substantial rally together. 
The Panthers carried their momentum into game two, established a 9-0 lead in the earlygoing, and then coasted as 
Notre Dame remained slug­gish into the third game, but managed to stick with the Panthers until they broke a 4-4 tie and finished off the faltering Irish. 
The Irish hit a deplorable .077 from the field against Pittsburgh and only a slightly better .120 against Pacific. 
The offensive output Saturday was unexpected after the Irish appeared to get their game jump-started in a heart­breaking loss to Western Michigan Friday night. 
a1r 

A slow start was again the culprit, putting the Irish two games down to start their first match of the tournament. 
But the Irish persevered be­hind the strong serving of freshman outside hitter Alicia Turner, rallying to take the second game after racing out to a 8-0 lead. 
And despite battling its own errant serves and the Broncos varied offensive attack and de­fensive hustle, Notre Dame sus­tained its level of play and tied the match at two games apiece. 
The Broncos put on a clinic in the fifth match though, crush­ing the youthful Irish squad in the fifth and deciding game, after bruising the Irish early by grabbing a 6-0 lead. 
Junior setter Amy White turned in an impressive per­formance against the Broncos tallying 41 assists. six kills, niite Jig:-. and a game-high seven total blocks -an unusual feat for a setter. 
But barring sporadic mo­ments of glory. the Irish could not summon the team unity needed to capture a victory against any of its opponents. 
"We've improved as a team," Lambert said. "But when you look at the people that made some costly errors, you'll notice that they're our younger play­ers. 
"Those errors will disappear in time, but they hurt when they decide the outcome of a match." 

Monday, September 18, 1989 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
12:00 pm: Scott Mainwaring, Senior Fellow, Kellogg 
ACROSS 26 Hello. to Hadrian 47 Confiscations 
Institute: "Dilemmas of Multi-party Presidentialism-The 
27 Protective 50 Baux1te or1 Un1t for Chr~s or

Case of Brazil". Brown bag lunch. Sponsored by the 
garment galenaMartina

Kellogg Institute.131 Decio Hall 
30 Gather 51 Cho1r member

4 Thirty-two Boy Scouts 34 Beame and 52 Violent storm 
9 Flat-bottomed 56 Shade of blue 
Fort as THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON boat 35 Folkways 
60 Over 13 Mama's mate 37 "Able was 1-61 Garbage" 
14 India's main 
64 Notton language 38A Ritter 
65 Ou1z answer, 15 "-Ia Douce" 39 "Harvey" star· perhaps 
16 Novelist Ambler 1950 
66 Type of mustcal 17 Tripod of a sort 41 Heflin or 
67 Close
Johnson

18 Norman "Of 68 Prophet
s1tcoms 42 Vane read1ng 
69 Per1ods of ttme 19 Jefferson's cotn 43 K1tchen tool 70 Asset cla1med 21 Drudgery 44 Exam1nat1on 

by 68 Across 23 Rich materials 45 Porter 
DOWN 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Rant's garment 211tad, e.g. 3 Football 
posttions 4 Another Ritter 5lnlet 6 Swttch settings 

20 Corn un1t 32 Clean the slate 52 Makes lace 7 Some poems 
22 "Stop'." at sea 33 Leases 53 Ratson d'­8 Plundering 
24 Fudd or Gantry 36 Street show 54 Grimace person 
25 Least rapid 39 Ttre type 55 Corner 9 The Lone 
27 Serve food for a 40 Wall hangtng 57 Summer Ranger's horse 
fee 44 Steam-dr~ven beverages 10 An Algonqutan 
28 Overwetght engine 58 Jump 
-7+~:+7-t::-i 11 Bradley or Shartf 29 Annoyed 46 One of the fuzz 59 Feather's -::+~~:t:::'t:-1-:-4 12 Caut1ous 31 "-on 48 Foot parts partner -=+:+.+.~+=-f.:-1 13ltem mtghtier Sunday," 49 Mecca for 62 Actress Gardner than the sword Mercouri film children 63 Calif.'s Big-


COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Ll5\E.N, t/10£, T~Ts NY  '{£1..\.1.' ITS t<l,'( ~A'-IOR.IiE TRilC.K.  iea'n?  
TRUCK, A~t;)  '{()\J 1-lf>..O ~c  I  
t  Wf>..~T  IT  RIGI-\T TO T~Kc  
BKK~  IT!  
I  
BUZZ MC FLATTOP  

BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
~t,b..\.1! ~ I'll fight 1()1.1 I'LL BEl' 111'1 Cmo1"1, 
G\'l£ \i t"Or it. AUTCli>Si Rt'lEt>LS wimp.' BACK! 1"1'( tiOJn\ IS I NOW.' TOO 8\G. 
I 
,1~
T_ 






Ismail's runs spark 24-19 Irish victory 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 

t\NN t\HBOH. -"Thank 
God for Horkf't Ismail." 
"liP may bP tlw most dangf'r­
ous playPr around, with the 
hall." 

Irish tri-raptain Ned Bolcar 
and Mirhigan !wad roach Bo 
Sdwmlwrhll'l' prPlty much 
summed up tlw game as the 
NotrP l>anw football team dn­
I'PatPd tlw WolvPrinns 24-19 
Saturday al'tPrnoon, riding the 
wings of tlw Hol'kl't Man. 
Thn game. playnd on a soggy, 
dark aftprnoon. liwd up to its 
billing as tlw top-ranked Irish 
battlnd tlw No.2 WolvPrines to 
a dose fiinish. 

Ismail's two kickoff rPturns 
for touchdowns in the second 
half were the best offense for 
thP Irish. who played an ex­
Irish defensive line proves
trnmPiy conservativ11 game on 
of'fnnse. For his efforts, Ismail 
was awarded the game ball by 
bigger isn't always better 
Irish lwad coach Lou Iloltz. 
By GREG GUFFEY Damn crndit. Tlwy had a quick­"I told him I wish he could 
Assistant Sports Editor reacting defense. I was very
lind it sorm1how in the budget 
much impn~ssed with their
to give a game ball to everybody t\NN t\RBOH -Michigan's big quickness."
who was on the kickoff return and brawny offensive line canw .Junior Irish nose guard Christeam." Ismail said. "because it into its game against Notre Zorich-whom Irish dPfPnsivewould really be unfair for one Dame Saturday as one of thn coordinator Barry t\lvan~z sayspmson to receive the ball when will someday be the standardthtm~·s actually 11 guys that most heralded units in thn country. the forcn that boosted all nose guards are mPasun~dmade it all happtm." 
the powerful Wolveri1w running by-again anchored tlw lirw byIsmail's first return opened attack. rncording five total tackh1s.
the second half. covered 89 Few disagreed with that as­Before homt~ games, Zorichyards and took 11 seconds. It sumption until Saturday. t\fter likes to sharn a meal with thewas at a key time, as the Irish 
neednd some breathing room. all, the average weight of a squirrels on campus. On The Wolverines had closed the Wolverine lineman was over Saturday. Zorich ate with the 
first half with a 9-yard touch­290 pounds. Thest~ players Wolverines. Only this time. he down pass from Michael Taylor didn't miss many meals, let didn't share; he just feasted. to Chris Calloway to make the 
alone blocks. If his appt~tite wasn't big score 7-6. But it was the Irish defense enough alrnady, Michigan made "What happened was, our that was hungrier beforn Zorich feel like he was about to 
105,000 drenched fans in end a fast.
front line made the initial con­Michigan Stadium. The defense "Greg Skrepenak (Michigan
tact." Ismail said. "They opened up a pn~tty decent sized crease. turned in a stellar performance offensive tackle) was talking 
in Notre Dame's 24-19 victory about how they WPrP going to
Then the back wall that's in front of me came through and that kept the Irish aimed to­beat Notro Dame," Zorich said. ward a second consecutive na­"When we got on the bus. the
picked up the guys that were 
left over, and I believe the 
tional championship. coaches gavn us an artiele kicker was left, and Rodney The Wolverines relied on where he was talking about 
Culver was lead weight, and the Irish on quick­how they wem going to blow us
the blocker 
coming through, and he took ness. On this day, bigger wasn't off tlw ball. Things like that care of him, and it was a necessarily better. Michigan lire me up." straight route up the side. made the headlines, but Notre They also fired up the rest of
Irish running back Rod Culver picks up yardage during Notre Dame's 
Dame made the tackles. the line. 
"The only job I have to do as 
24-19 victory over Michigan Saturday afternoon. 
The Irish held the Wolverines Said defensive tackle Boba kickoff returner is to make to 94 rushing yards on 34 car­Dahl, "We were presented withone person miss. When every­of hope in to the hearts of the But 12 seconds later, Hocket ries. That 2. 7 average per carry a challenge. Our coaching staff
one takes care of their blocking partisan Wolverine crowd of took off again. Surprising ev­assignments and there's one 105,912. Elvis Grbac, who came eryone, including Ismail him­was almost half of the 4.8 did a gwat job with the type of 
yards that Michigan runners schemes wn ran."
person for me to beat, then it's in to replace injured quarter­self, the Wolverines let him get gained in 1988. The Wolverines Dahl, who earned the startingline." back Michael Taylor, capped a the ball. 
t\fter freshman Craig 51-yard drive with a five-yard "On the second one they averaged 252.6 yards rushing spot at left tackle when George llentrich hit a 30-yard field pass to Derrick Walker. The kicked on the left, to the per game last season. Williams was declared academ­goal to increase the Notre two-point conversion attempt corner," Ismail said. "It was "Our offensive line didn't do a ically ineligible, turned in thn 
good job," Michigan coach Bo
Dame lead to 17-6, Michigan failed, and the Irish lead was Schembechler said. "Give Notre see LINE I page 12came back again to shine a ray cut to 17-12. see IRISH/ page 13 
Irish volleyball team struggles in weekend tournament 
By MOLLY MAHONEY earlier Saturday in three games formance throughout the tour­before heading south to grabbing a quick 13-1 lead in Assistant Sports Editor as well, 7-15,3-15,5-15. nament prompted officials and Louisiana State next weekend, the first game of the match. The pain of those losses was coaches to completely ignore and I think that this team's go­Despite a strong performanee 
The road to victory may only worsened by the squad's the Irish in their final all-tour­ing to start putting some from freshman middle hitter prove to be a long and winding hard-fought five-game defeat nament picks, but Irish head notches in the win column once .Jessica Fiebelkorn. Pacific was one for the Notre Dame volley­at the hands of Western coach Art Lamb<>rt is hoping they mature a little." able to utilize Notre Dame's ball team. Michigan Friday night, 8-15, 6-that his rather green team will The Irish took on a highly­stuttering start to take a one­
The Irish dropped all three of 15, 15-5, 15-9, 11-15. get the kinks out of its game touted Pacific squad in the last game lead. their matches in the Notre Notre Dame's passing, the soon. game of the tournament The Irish exchanged side outs Dame Invitational they hosted foundation for mounting any "Our passing hurt us this Saturday night and were liter­and long volleys to keep the this weekend to plummet to 1-6 offensive attack, was suspect weekend," Lambert said of his ally bombarded by the Tigers' score tied at 3-3 in the early on the season. throughout the tournament, team's performance. "But the diverse hitting attack. stages of game two. But the 
Notre Dame fell to eighth­and recurrent service errors girls were tight, they were ner­The Tigers, who captured the seasoned Tigers took advan­ranked Pacific Saturday night and mental lapses proved to be vous, and that's just youthful team title by beating each team tage of their younger counter-in three games, 7-15, 5-15, 7-the team's undoing. inexperience. it faced in the tournament, 15, after losing to Pittsburgh The squad's lackluster per-"We have a week to practice wasted no time with the Irish, 
see VOLLEY/ page 14 









