----~--~-­



TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 1989
VOL. XXII, NO. 116 
•tfrfRE DP..ME
1'1 ­
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
22 die in French airplane crash 
Associated Press the impact of the crash, offi­
cials said. 
VALENCE, France-A pas­The wreckage was on the nor­senger plane with 22 people on thern face of the Vercors moun­board lost control and crashed tain, at an altitude of 3,900 feet. into a mountainside in sout­The Fokker 27, a twin--engine heastern France on Monday turboprop, was flying for the night, likely killing all aboard, private airline Europe Aero­officials said. Service. It was making a reg­
Rescuers located the ular flight from Paris' Orly Air­wreckage 3 hours after the port to Valence. crash, which occurred shortly The control tower at Mont after 9 p.m. as the plane was Verdun, near Lyon, lost contact about to land, local officials with the plane at 9: 10 p.m. The said. plane was scheduled to land at 
9:18 p.m. at the Chabeuil air­
They quickly found 17 bodies port, near Valence, which is among the aircraft's scattered south of Lyon. debris in a forest near the vil­There was no immediate ex­lage of Leoncel, about 15 miles planation why the aircraft flew from this city in southeastern into the mountainside as it was France. 
Chances of anyone surviving the crash were slim because of see CRASH I page 5 

AP Photo
Border arrest 

East German border guards arrest a young unidentified man, who with another, tried to run across check point Chaussestreet for West Berlin, Saturday, while a car of visitors to East Berlin make their way through the border slalom course. Both men were taken into custody. 

Valdez cleanup hindered by approaching storm 
Associated Press the Kenai Peninsula, and that's retreated a little bit," and oil Spotter flights over the spill The state said the tanker, good. The. weather is breaking was beginning to break into tar were canceled Monday but the anchored in a remote cove for 
VALDEZ, Alaska-The slick up the slick, and that's good," balls · and sink, said Bill weather was not expected to the repairs, continues to leak of thick crude oil spilled by the said Coast Guard spokesman Lamoreaux, the state's on­curtail boom-laying opera­oil, which escapes containment Exxon Valdez stalled Monday Rick Meidt. scene coordinator. ''That's tions. booms because currents keep in its movement toward the na­As of Monday morning, good news." The Coast Guard sent six ad­shifting the plastic booms and tion's No.1 fishing port and was 18,000 barrels of crude have There was some concern ditional cutters Monday from snagging them on the ship's breaking up in rough waves been recovered, or 8 percent of that, as the storm systems gen­West Coast ports to assist in the bow. and high wind, the Coast Guard the 240,000 barrels spilled. erating Monday's turbulence cleanup effort. On Sunday, mil­A 40-foot gray whale was said. At the fishing port of Kodiak, move closer to land, higher itary cargo jets flew oil skim­found dead in an oil area Sun­
However, the stormy wea­which landed a $166 million waves in the sound could wash mers, booms and beach lan­day, but an autopsy revealed ther hampered cleanup efforts catch last year to lead the na­oil over containment booms ding craft into Alaska, and that the marine mammal "died as small craft advisories and tion, preparations to battle the protecting spawning areas and commanders issued a Pacific­long before the oil spill ever oc­gale warnings were posted floating oil continued in spite other protected spots. wide call for more equipment curred,'' said Alaska Depart­along the central Alaskan of the good news. Fishermen "If the storm is a severe one, to fight ihe nation's worst oil ment of Fish and Game spokes­coast, where 10.1 million gal­covered logs with fish net and we'll see some more beaches spill. woman Sheila Nickerson. lons of crude oil oozed across strung them together as float­impacted," state cleanup co­Repairs were under way on Wildlife experts say many Prince William Sound, threat­ing booms to keep oil out of vi­ordinator Jim Hayden. the tanker Exxon Valdez, animals are found dead in ening fisheries and killing tal areas. Town leaders even Still, Hayden said the fis­which spilled the oil 25 miles Prince William Sound in the thousands of birds and broadc~st boom-making tech­heries were well-defended and from Valdez when it ran spring. animals. niques on local television. boats were being moved from aground and ripped its hull on Officials said 119 dead sea ot­
The wind was out of the Oil was still at least 60 miles fish-rich Sawmill Bay to other a reef well outside the normal ters have been counted and two northeast, which kept oil from from Kodiak's fishing areas, heavily oiled areas. shipping channel. Salvage boats were waiting to unload washing ashore in untainted in­and appeared to have stalled "Some of the operations are workers have reinforced punc­additional dead animals. lets and the Kenai Fjords Na­on its southwesterly drift shifting away from the protec­tured areas of the tanker to Hundreds of dead birds have tional Park. toward the town, Meidt said. tive actions at the fisheries to prevent further fractures, been counted, including some 
"It's not pushing it (oil} to "The leading edge has some oil cleanup," he said. Meidt said. rare yellow-billed loons. 

Bennett calls for drt-~a cleanup

.... 
Associated Press treatment facilities, and an in­crease in job-training pro­
WASHINGTON-William grams. Bennett, slapping at the city Bennett spoke at a news con­government's attempts to bat­ference with Attorney General tle a drug problem which he Dick Thornburgh and Housing said "is so glaring-so out of and Urban Development Secre­control," announced on Mon­tary Jack Kemp. day a multimillion-dollar Washington was the nation's federal effort to combat drqgs murder capital last year with in the nation's capital. 372 slayings, most of them 
Bennett, director of the na­drug-related. Already this tional drug control policy of­year, there have been 135 fice, said that "the plain fact homicides, compared with 87 at is that, for too long and in too this time last year. many respects, the D.C. gov­Bennett said "drugs and ernment has failed to serve its demand for drugs sorely test citizens.'' the responsive abilities of doz­
He announced plans calling ens of American cities. But for building new pretrial deten­here, where the problem is so tion and prison facilities, ex­glaring-so out of control­panding a local law enforce­serious questions of local ment task force, an effort to rid politics and governance can no public housing of drug users and dealers, expansion of drug-see DRUGS/ page 4 



page 2 The Observer Tuesday, April 11, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Independent historian Roy Medvedev won a runoff election for a new Soviet congress, and the Academy of Sciences restored Andrei Sakharov to the ballot for separate elections to the chamber, official reports said today. The balloting around the nation Sunday was the second stage of the Soviet Union's first multicandidate national elections in 71 years. In the first round March 26, voters rejected at least 45 government and Com­munist Party leaders in their bids for seats in the new Congress of People's Deputies. 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher says she'll shower her first grandchild with "fantastic affection" but will have to be careful not to spoil him. Thatcher's grandson, offspring of her son Mark and his American wife Diane, was born Feb. 28 in Dallas. "I shall be just like any other granny, absolutely thrilled, and, I suppose, with a tendency to spoil, but very conscious that one mustn't ... (and) with fantastic affection," she was quoted as telling Woman's Own magazine. 
A Rod Stewart concert in Mexico attracted hundreds of rock fans without tickets who destroyed a police car and engaged in minor fisticuffs with officers, the Excelsior news service said. In an attempt to prevent a riot, authorities eventually ordered officers to let the rock fans enter the Sunday night show, even if they didn't have tickets, Excelsior reported Monday. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
A twin-engine aircraft carrying a missionary group from Haiti to Fort Lauderdale was hijacked Monday, and the plane was diverted to Miami, officials said. Two gunmen, who the FBI said apparently were members of the Haitian military, surren­dered when the plane landed and no passengers were hurt during the flight. The men were taken to FBI headquarters. The FBI said the motive for the hijacking was not known. 
The Environmental Protection Agency said Monday more than a million school water fountains still have lead com­ponents or lead-lined tanks, posing possible health risks to youngsters. EPA officials said they would soon issue a detailed guide for school officials on how to test for unhealthy lead levels, and the agency listed 113 manufactuers' model numbers for foun­tains in which lead levels were found to be of concern. 
University of Texas researchers said today that they have partially duplicated the University of Utah experiment that claims to have achieved nuclear fusion, but they haven't con­firmed that the results they saw actually came from fusion. "This is only one aspect-the excess energy aspect has been confirmed,'' said Charles Martin, associate chemistry professor at Texas A&M university who is working with thermodynamics research­ers Bruce Gammon and Kenneth Marsh on the experiments. The scientists cautioned that further research must be done to confirm that the excess heat generated in the experiment was the result of nuclear fusion, and not merely an unexplained chemical re­action. 
The country-rock band Alabama was named artist of the decade at the 24th Academy of Country Music Awards show on Monday, while K.T. Oslin garnered trophies for album of the year and best female vocalist. The year's top music video trophy went to Hank Williams for his "Young Country" video. Williams accepted his award and introduced his son saying "This is my son, Shelton Hank Williams, and one day he's going to be up here.'' 
WEATHER 

No remedy 

Increasing cloudine~g and nnt a~ ,._lu..J ~oa.ay w1'th 
'l 4-L --_• .,." .... .., \..VJ " 
a ..0 ~~~~~:: ... ~uimce of afternoon snow showers. Highs in the middle 40s. Cloudy and not as cold tonight with a 40 percent chance of light snow. Lows in the lower 30s. 
ALMANAC 
On  April  11:  
e In  1689:  William  III  and  
Mary  II  were  crowned  as  JOint  

sovereigns in Britain, two months after their reign had begun as part of the "Glorious Revolution" that deposed James II. 
e In 1814: Napolean Bonaparte abdicat,Jd as emperor of France and was banished to the island of Elba e In 1970: Apollo 13 blasted off on its ill-fated mission to the moon. e In 1981: President Reagan returned to the White House , 12 days after he was wounded in an assassi­nation attempt. 
• Ten years ago: Idi Amin was deposed as president of Uganda as rebels and exiles backed by Tanzanian forces took control of the capital city of Kampala. 
MARKET UPDATE 

S&P 500 +.04 to 297.11 
Currency exchange 
Mark •.0067 to 1.8766 DM I $ 
Yen i)-.20 to 132.90 ¥ I $ 
Precious Metals Gold il-$2.30 to $390.30 I oz. Silver i} 5.2¢ to $5.85 I oz. 

Joy lies in aiding others for 'Christmas in April' 
A knock on my door at 7 a.m. Saturday pulled me from my bed and to my dorm room door. My friend was standing there in her night shirt asking me if we were really having Christmas in April. 
It's probably my fault that she had her hopes up that we would not have to trudge to Senior Bar at this ungodly hour. The weather report the night before said that Saturday would be 30 degrees and there was almost 100 percent chance of precipitation. I just figured that Christmas in April would be rescheduled for the raindate. 
I am the Social Concerns Commissioner for my dorm so I was responsible for sign-ups for this service event and then for getting people in my dorm out of bed and over to Senior Bar. I must admit that at 7: 00 on Saturday morning I realized what a tough job I had. 
Well, me and about 20 others did get up and trudge across campus. Every other word out of our mouths was short and profane. We just couldn't understand how we could be so foolish and sign up for this event. We thought helping out people is great, but why at 7:00 on a Satur­day morning? 
As we approached the volunteer gathering site our doubts grew. There were tons of stu­dents gathered near students who held large signs that listed different sites. It looked pretty chaotic. However, soon we found the sign that listed the same site that we were assigned to. From that point on our moods improved. 
We were loaded onto buses and transported to our sites. I went to Hill Street where a widow needed yard work done. We had a large number of students in our group who were cold, yet enthusiastic. 
My three friends and I went out to the wo­man's backyard to what seemed like the town dump. There was garbage all over the place and under the ground, too. My friend Monica just looked at me and said, "This loses." 
Once we got the garbage out of the earth and into bags, our moods began to improve. We noticed that once the old toothbrushes, shoes, and carpeting were removed, the yard started to look much better. We had cleared out one section of the yard and moved on to bigger and better things. 
Next we tackled the long dead vines that were growing all over another part of the lawn. We raked up as much as we could and the rest was axed by an axe-happy ND student. I couldn't 
OF INTEREST 
ISO elections for officers will be held today from 5:30 to 6 p.m. at the ISO Lounge. 
Saint Mary's appreciation day-say thanks to the best at the reception for mainte­nance, security, groundskeeping, housekeeping and Marriott workers in the Stapleton Lounge, LeMans, Wednesday from 9:30 to 11 a.m. 
Gender Studies courses can be found on page 56 in the Preliminary Schedule ~! Cvitrses bookl~t Gender ~t!!~~~; ~; iocated in Room 116 ~f ~ne center for Social Concerns. 
The Theology Department announces the addition of a second course in the summer session at the level of second theology require­ment. Christian Ethics, Theo 260, by Leslie Grif­fin, from 9:10 to 10:10 a.m. each weekday. For more information on this and other summer courses which meet Theology requirements, contact the Theology Department at 239-7811. 
=Ihe=Obset:Ver---= 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dumlg exam and vacat1on periods. The Observer IS published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 
........m..-....m.................. 

'We had gone into someone's home and actually made a visible difference.' 
Kelley Tuthill Assistant News Editor 
tell whether his zealous axing was a sign of a Jasonesque disorder or just the thrill of serving others. 
Because of our large group and the enthusi­asm of the students we were done by 12:30 p.m. The woman's yard looked 100 times better than when we arrived. We were not expert landscapers, but the basic clean-up helped the appearance of her house tremendously. The wo­men took down all of our names and said she wanted to have us back for a cook-out, she was very happy with the work we had done. 
I was home for a couple of hours before my friends filed into my room with various ac­counts of their Christmas in April. Some stu­dents were very enthusiastic while some were negative. All, however, were ex,hausted. 
Some of my friends shared my feeling of ac­complishment. We had gone into someone's home and actually made a visible difference. That is a feeling that does· not come to most every day. I've worked on other service proj­ects, yet never have I or anyone I talked to seen such immediate results. 
A few of my friends complained that there were so many people at their sites they felt useless. Others said that they were amazed at the amount of paraphernalia that had accum­ulated in the houses that they worked at. They felt frustrated because the homeowner was reluctant to throw their belongings away. One friend feared that the house would go back to the way it was shortly after the Christmas in April crew left. 
All of my friends and myself shared a similar sentiment: we all said that we would participate in Christmas in April again. Next year, however, it better be no earlier than nine! 
Kelley Tuthill is a freshman enrolled in the 
Freshman Year of Studies and an Assistant 
News Editor of The Observer. 
Campus Alliance for Rape Elimina­tion (CARE) sponsors a self~defence workshop today at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. Afterwards, students Pat Creason and Molly Meyer will lead an informal discussion about date/acquaintance rape. 
Irish Accent presents Graceland followed by skits and improvisational com~c:!y ~t Theodore's today ai B: ~~ p.ii1. 
CILA dinner and rap session on "Service in a Christian Context," led by Richard Measell from Saint Mary's, will be held upstairs in the South Dining Hall at 5 p.m. today. / 
Freshmen interested in being part of the Sophomore Class Government next year should apply at the Student Government Secretary's Desk, second floor, LaFortune Student Center. Positions include dorm representatives, social, liturgical and major events commissioners. All applications are due by April 19. 
Tuesday's Staff 
Design Edhor............................ Kathy Huston Design Assistant.................. Tricia Grohman Typesetters .................................... Tim Kiefer .......................................................... Mike Kolar News Editor ...................... Florentine Hoelker Copy Edhor............................... Missy Weber Sports Copy Editor ................. Marty Strasen Accent Edhor......................... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor ............... Paige Smoron Accent Designer...................... Paul lmoeglia Typists........................................... Will Zamer . . ... . ...... .. .... ..... . ... .... .. .. .. . ......... Diana Bradley NO Day Editor............... Margaret McCloskey SMC Day Editor.................. Rozel Gatmaitan Photog111pher .......................... Helen1 Korwek 


Senate to vote on change in FAC 
By JEFF SWANSON FAC (Freshman Advisory 
Staff Reporter Council). I don't feel that 
anyone from the F AC would be 
The student senate plans to that qualified," he said. 
vote next week on a proposed Victor DeFrancis, co-
student government constitu­commissioner of the Freshman 
tional change which would Orientation Committee, said 
make the Freshman Advisory that the FAC should choose the 
Council independent of the advisor this year so that the ad­
Freshman Year of Studies. visor could be included in the 
Student Body Vice President Freshman Orientation Com­
Dave Kinkopf said that the con­mittee meetings held during 
stitutional change would put this semester. "If we were to 
the Freshman Advisory Coun­take applications, it would take 
cil under complete control of three weeks before we have an 
the student government. advisor," he said. Student 
Kinkopf said that the change Body President Matt Breslin 
was initiated by Dean Emil and Kinkopf decided that the 
Hofman of the Freshman Year Freshman Advisory Council 
of Studies. will choose the advisor this 
Kinkopf said that it was year, although they said that 
decided that there should be an an alternate way should be 
advisor to the freshman council used in the future . 
who would serve Hofman's In other business, plans for a 
prior role. The senate debated computerized activities 
who would be responsible for calender were discussed. 
choosing the advisor. The calender will be avail­
Junior Class President Rob able to all campus organiza­
Pasin said, ''The position tions and will prevent schedule 
should be open to anyone, not conflicts, said Student Union 
just former members of the Board Manager Raja Singh. 
New book chronicles children with AIDS 
Associated Press the community gathering 
place." 
KOKOMO, Ind.-Ryan White Of the nine communities is one of nine school-aged represented in the book, each children whose battle against reacted differently to the sud­AIDS is chronicled in a new den intrusion of AIDS, Kirp book. said. 
David Kirp, a University of "Kokomo developed a California-Berkeley public reputation as a place of heart­policy professor, and five col­lessness," Kirp said. "If you laborators have written call the people of Swansea, this ''Learning by Heart: AIDS and is something they are very Schoolchildren in America's proud of." Communities," which was Although Kirp said most released last week by Rutgers Kokomo residents would like to University Press. forget the Ryan White case, 
The book focuses on which was settled in 1986, most headline-grabbing cases, in­were willing to talk to the aut­cluding Ryan's efforts to hors last spring as they con­remain at Western Middle ducted research for the book. School near Russiaville after "Everybody in the planet contracting AIDS through was happy to talk about this," tainted blood products used in he said. the treatment of his hemop­The only exception was hilia. Ryan's family, who moved to 
It was the battle to get AIDS­Cicero after winning the legal stricken Mark Hoyle back into battle for Ryan to remain in his Swansea, Mass., school that school. inspired the book, however. Because Ryan's fight was the 
subject of a television movie 
Kirp said he selected school­broadcast earlier this year, his aged children battling the mother, Jeanne White, told deadly Acquired Immune Kirp "she felt her story had Deficiency Syndrome because already been told." "schools are the place where ''They are the one family in we debate the biggest public is­the book who I don't know, and sues. Schools are very much I regret that," Kirp said. 

tall Dime a.Sd1oal Presents A Lecture By Ira Schwartz Professor and Director Ctr. For the Study of Youth Policy University of Michigan 
On 

"Responding to Violent & Chronic Juvenile Offenders: Promising Strategies and Developments" Noon Thursday, Aprll13 Room 220 Law School Courtroom 

Slum fire 
Policemen watch from an expressway as a fire rages through a slum in Bangkok, Thailand, off of New Phetchaburi Road Sunday. A Buddhist monk died in the fire which flattened 151 houses and left 1800 people homeless. Investigators have not ruled out the possibility of arson. 



Sigwela discusses apartheid 
By ASHOK RODRIGUES do with a fascist system." He quences of the apartheid Staff Reporter proposed negotiations to es­policy. tablish a new non-racial and According to Amnesty Inter­
Ezra Sigwela, a former South democratic government. national, Sigwela has been im­African political prisoner, 
prisoned in South Mrica for 13 spoke about apartheid Monday years. Sigwela says that during 
that time he was forced to live at the Center for Social Con­
cerns. in extremely poor conditions, 
In a speech sponsored by Am­beaten close to death, starved nesty International Group 43, and allowed to suffer serious Sigwela harshly criticized the illness without medical treat­South African government. He ment. said that he and others had Sigwela attributes his even­
been imprisoned because they tual release to the letter writing demanded "that the country activity of Amnesty Interna­which is Mrica belongs to the tional, saying that it will work people who live there, and that for others, too. "The state offi­no government has a right to cials know that they must act govern there without the au­with care. They know that they 
Ezra Sigwela

thority of all its people. must answer a lot of ques­Sigwela condemned the cur­Sigwela also supports the use tions," he said. 
rent rule, noting that "some of sanctions in order to ensure The speech was preceded by people have said that there is change in his home country. He a film entitled "Witness to democracy among the white said that for the first time the Apartheid,'' detailing various 
people. That is wrong...there business community has be­South African residents views is no democracy. We have to come aware of the conse-about apartheid. 

Eastern buyers struggle for agreement before deadline 
Associated Press Tuesday deadline for setting baseball commissioner. terms to get Eastern's striking Sources familiar with the 
NEW YORK-Talks aimed at unions back to work. weekend talks had indicated a selling Eastern Airlines That deadline is a condition formal announcement on an bogged down Monday as its of the agreement by Ueber­agreement could be made Mon­parent Texas Air Corp. balked roth's group to buy Easterno day but declined to elaborate, at accepting tentative agree­The airline has been largely due to a news blackout on the ments reached between Eas­grounded since March 4 due to talks. tern unions and buyers led by a strike by Machinists that has Under Ueberroth's $464 mil­Peter Ueberroth, sources close been honored by most of its lion buyout proposal, Eastern to the situation said. pilots and flight attendants. employees would get a 30 per­
Ueberroth and representa­Lifland, who is overseeing cent stake in the airline in ex­tives from Eastern, Texas Air Eastern's reorganization un­change for $200 million in con­and its unions met Monday with der federal bankruptcy law, tract concessions. Ueberroth 
U.S. bankruptcy Judge Burton must approve any sale of the has also said he would proceed Lifland~ The meeting followed airline. with plans to sell Eastern's a weekend of secret talks But although sources said the Northeast shuttle to New York aimed at beating a midnight Ueberroth group and the uni-developer Donald Trump for 
.-----~-------• ons had reached tentative $365 million. SUMMER CAMP agreements in their weekend The unions involved are the POSITIONS talks, Eastern and Texas Air International Association of Counselors: 21 +, coed, attorneys emerging from a Machinists, the Air Line Pilots 
day-long meeting at the Man­Association and the Transport
sleepaway camp, Mass. hattan bankruptcy court indi-Workers Union. Berkshires. WSI, arts & cated there was no overall The Machinists struck Eas­crafts, tennis, all land and accord. tern on March 4 after refusing 
"There's no agreement," to accept more than $120 mil­
water sports, drama, gymnastics, piano/play for said David Boies, an attorney lion in wage and other conces­
representing Texas Air, as he sions demanded by Texas Air, shows, judo, dance, emerged from the meeting and Eastern's parent. The other photography, computers, left the courthouse. "I will tell unions have accepted conces­nature, wilderness, model you there will be no agreement sions in the past, but honored · tonight." the Machinists' picket lines. 
rocketry, guitar, yearbook, There was no immediate 
The unions virtually halted woodworking, AN, typist, comment from the unions or Eastern operations. On March Write: Camp Emerson, Ueberroth. Labor sources, who 9, the airline filed for protection 5 Brassie Ad, spoke on condition of from creditors under federal Eastchester, NY 10707 anonymity, had refused to give bankruptcy law. or call 914n79_ specifics earlier about their 
.____________ 9406 .,. agreement with the former see SALE I page 6 
.,. _______ 
,.,..----------~-~~ 
Tuesday, April 11, 1989 
page 4 The Observer 
North testifies Reagan concealed missle shipment 
Cold Fusion· 

Experimental fusion apparatus What is fusion? 
This simple reactor, ~Wires carrying 
II~ 
a few inches tall and . electrical c~arge In the most basic nuclear easily built in ~n · ' l. from battenes fusion reaction, two deu­
ordmary chem1stry lab. . ;
1 \ 

terium nuclei fuse into 
uses electromagnetism , ' / ' one helium nucleus and 

to squeeze deuterium 
Palladium core release a vast amount of 
nuclei close enough energy. This is what together to fuse and Platinum wire happens in the sun, and 

release energy, its in hydrogen bombs. 

inventors claim. The opposite charges on -Glass tube 
1:1 {) /"·.'> !'.,_.!"•.. ('
r:l . ././ }, -~jl . ..: I
the (positive) platinum filled with But in normal .. · ·. ': .-/
wire and the {negative) "heavy water" conditions on Earth, the core drive the charged rich In deuter­positively-charged nuclei deuterium nuclei toward ium 

repel each other and the core. The lattice cannot get close enough structure of the metal together to fuse.
palladium, used in the core, confines the 
attracted nuclei in tiny 

D~u((#Ju+ 
areas where fusion is Most fusion research said to take place. 

has focused on pushingUnlike earlier "hot" deuterium nuclei close fusion reactors, this together the way the sundevice functions at does, by heating them to room temperature and millions of degrees. Soyields more energy far, creating enough heatthan it requires to run. 
and pressure has usually Deuterium is a form of consumed more energyDeuterium nuclei are drivenhydrogen commonly than the fusion yields.
to core lattice and fused found in seawater. 
AP/Pat Lyons 
University of Texas researchers said Monday that they have part1aiiy duplicated the University of Utah experiment that claims to have achieved nuclear fusion, but they haven't confirmed that the results they saw actually came from fusion. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Oliver North, seemingly struggling to keep his temper, on Monday defended his stewardship of an Iran-Contra cash fund and in­sisted the money he paid for a used car came instead from a $15,000 family cache in a metal box bolted to a closet floor. 
At the start of cross examina­tion at his trial, North said he kept track in a spiral-bound notebook of every penny he dis­bursed from the Iran-Contra fund which totaled between $240,000 and $300,000. 
"The ledger is still around?" asked prosecutor John Keker. "It was destroyed," North said. "Do you know who destroyed it?" 
"Yes," he said. "I did." 
Earlier Monday, North tes­tified that former President Reagan and his attorney gen­eral, Edwin Meese, concealed 
U.S. involvement in a Novem­ber 1985 shipment of Hawk mis­siles from Israel to Iran. 

In a meeting on Nov.12, 1986, Reagan clearly "had made a decision not to disclose" the shipment, North said. 
The president told a news conference on Nov. 19-a week after that meeting-that the government had not been in­volved with other nations in shipping weapons to Iran and that the United States had shipped none before he signed a January 1986 authorizing document. Immediately after­ward, the White House put out a statement in which Reagan said a third country had been involved. 
North testified that he as­sumed Reagan had known of the diversion of Iran arms sale funds to the Contras, a conten­tion Reagan has denied. 
The former National Secur­ity Council aide was asked by his own lawyer about NSC doc­uments North and his former secretary, Fawn Hall, smuggled out of the White House complex about the time North was fired. 
North, who destroyed stacks of other documents around that time in November 1986, said he wanted the papers so "that I would have something to show if necessary, to show I had au­thority from my superiors for activities that I was engaged in." 

The papers, some taken out by North in the days before the Iran-Contra affair became public and some by Miss Hall after the firing, totaled 196 pages. 
Asked about one note, which he had written to superiors on Dec. 9, 1985, North said it "clearly articulates what process the United States was up to"-the process North was involved in-in approaching Iran in hopes of gaining release of hostages. 
But North said he shredded the financial accounting notebook, page by page, on or­ders of the late CIA director William Casey, because it had names and addresses of people whose lives would be in danger were they to become public. 

Go ahead and gloat. You can rub it in all the way to Chicago with AT&T Long Distance Service. Besides, your best friend Eddie was the one who said your team could never win three straight. 
So give him a call. It costs a lot less than you think to let him know who's headed for the Playoffs. Reach out and touch someone~ 
Ifyoutllike to know more about AT&T products and services, like International Calling and the Al&T Card, call us at 1800 222-0300. 


ATa.T 
The right choice. 





No breeze here 
The Observer 1 Heleni Korwek 
Freshman Marie Gallagher jogs beside her future sister-in-law senior Kathleen Rooney in Angela Athletic Facilities on Monday afternoon. 
For the facts call your local Red Cross, or write: AIDS 
+
American Red Cross C~ "Wclshington, DC 20006 
CLUBS & ORGANIZAT;ON3 All clubs & organizations must now re-register tor the 1989-90 academic year. Applications are now available .in the Student Activities Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. Applications include: 
1) Registration Form 
2) Funding Request 

3) Office Space Request 
4) Football Concession Stand Request 
Applications deadline is APRIL 19. 

Divest 


Divestment Panel Discussion 
Featuring Dean link 
Prof. James Carberry 
Come and fmd out 
library Auditorium April 11th 7 pm 




Sunken nuclear sub found 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-The Soviet navy has found its nuclear sub­marine at the bottom of the frigid Norwegian Sea and believes . electrical problems may have caused a fire and ex­plosions that sank it, a newspa­per reported Monday. 
The government newspaper Izvestia said rescuers had found the bodies of 19 of the 42 sailors killed when the sub sank north of Norway on Friday. 
Tass, the official news agency, said the 27 survivors were hospitalized in serious condition at Murmansk, a So­viet Arctic port, and inves­tigators were able to interview 
them  for  only  minutes  at  a  
time.  
It also  said  a  government  

commission praised the crew for "bravely and intelligently" working to shut down the sub's nuclear reactor. 
''According to preliminary information, the fire started 
Women's Care Center 
PREGNANCY HELP CENTER 
FREE Pregnancy Tests FREE Confidential, Individual 
& Couple Counseling FREE Referral to Support Agencies FREE Confidential Care Medical Referral Service Post Abortion Counseling 
1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
24 HOUR HELPLINE call for an appointment 234-0363 
because of a short circuit," Iz­vestia said, quoting navy investigators in Murmansk. It said the submarine carried 10 torpedoes, two of them nuclear­tipped. 
Foreign Ministry Spokesman Gennady Gerasirnov and the newspaper reiterated previous Soviet statements that there was no danger of radioactivity being released from the tor­pedoes or the reactor. 
Izvestia said search crews had determined the sub's loca­tion but Gerasimov said whe­ther it could be raised was not yet known. "The question of lifting the 
submarine  up  has  not  been  
decided yet," h e to ld  a  news  
briefing.  "It's  a  bit  deep  
there."  

Norwegian defense officials in Oslo said the Soviets had a salvage vessel at the site, but spokesman Erik Senstad there was no indication whether an attempt would be made to raise the sub from nearly 5,000 feet 
below the surface. 
He said civilian salvers have 
raised wrecks and parts of 
wrecks from much deeper 
water, however, and the 
Soviets presumably would 
want to retrieve the sub. 
Vadim Rozanov, press at­
tache at the embassy in Oslo, 
said Soviet vessels were in the 
area to test for radiation, paral­
leling studies by Norwegian 
scientists, but "I don't know if 
there are any plans to salvage 
the submarine." 
If the ship was a Mike-class 
vessel, as believed in the West, 
it would contain some of the 
most advanced Soviet technol­
ogy, which the Kremlin would 
not want disclosed to NATO 
countries, the Norwegian news 
agency NTB reported. 
Norway prepared 10 ques­
tions for the Soviets about the 
sub's construction and reactor 
safeguards. 
Among topics addressed 
were the reactor cooling sys­
tem, what radioactive waste 
they produce and the strength 
of the protective casing around 
the reactors. 
Members of the Committee 
on Radiation Accidents, 
created after the explosion and 
fire at the Chernobyl nuclear 
power plant in the Soviet Uk­
raine in April 1986, drafted the 
Norwegian questions. 
In Denmark, the environ­
mental group Greenpeace said 
a violent chemical reaciton and 
explosion might result. 

Crash 
continued from page 1 
making its landing approach. 
Three children were among the 19 passengers aboard, police and rescue officials said. Three crew members were aboard the aircraft. 
Officials said rescue workers concentrated their search for the 82-foot aircraft around Leoncel because numerous residents reported hearing a loud noise or explosion at about the same time the aircraft lost contact with the control tower. 
A Fokker 27 crashed March 4, 1988 on a flight from Nancy to Paris, killing 23 people. It was the worst plane accident in France since 1981. 

page 6 The Observer Tuesday, April 11, 1989 
Sale 


Soviet troops used to quell unrest
continued from page 3 
Eastern has been seeking court orders requiring the pilots to return to work. A federal judge in Miami was scheduled to issue a ruling on the request Monday, but his of­fice said the judge had granted a request from Eastern and the pilots union that he delay the decision. ­
The weekend talks in Wash­ington were held under the guidance of attorney David Shapiro, who was appointed by the bankruptcy court to be the airline's examiner. 
Last week, Texas Air Chair­man .Frank Lorenzo said Eas­tern could restore a significant part of its schedule within 24 hours of reaching new work agreements. But airline and union officials indicated Mon­day that that was an unrealistic assessment. 
Eastern has flown about 110 flights a day, focusing on its Northeast shuttle and Latin American routes, by using non­union employees and 200 nonstriking pilots. 
Eastern spokeswoman Karen Ceremsak said in Miami that it could take 10 days for the carrier to resume 80 per­cent of its prestrike schedule of 1,040 flights daily once the uni­ons agreed to return. The delay would come from maintenance and inspection of idled planes, ferrying aircraft to airports, recalling laid-off employees and other tasks. 
Raymond Wright, a vice chairman of the Air Line Pilots Association's master executive council, estimated it could take 45 to 60 days for Eastern to resume a full schedule once striking employees return. 
AMERICAN 
<. CANCER
~ 
, SOCIETY" 
Everyday 
someone 
needs us. And 
we need 





you. 

American Red Cross 
~~ A Public Service of This Publication 


Associated Press 
MOSCOW-Troops fired shots to disperse a rally Mon­day in Soviet Georgia, and the Kremlin sent Foreign Mini­ster Eduard Shevardnadze to try to end a week of ethnic unrest in his southern homeland that has left at least 18 people dead. 
A general strike closed schools, stores and factories, and halted some mass transit in Tbilisi, the Georgian capi­tal of 1.2 million people 1,650 miles southeast of Moscow, residents said. 
The government has sent in troops and tanks to quell eth­nic strife and pro­independence movements in the mountainous Caucasus republic that is the vegetable and fruit basket of the Soviet Union and was the birthplace of dictator Josef Stalin. 
The government newspaper Izvestia reported that cars moved through the capital Monday in a column with their horns honking, head­lights on and flags of mourn­ing for those kill~d in the strife. Some people donned black ribbons in mourning and protest, residents said. 
On Sunday, a clash between troops and pro-independence protesters killed at least 16 people and injured more than 100, according to Soviet offi­cials. 
Nana Byelovami, a nurse at the Central Republic Hospital in Tbilisi, said a 23-year-old pregnant woman who was beaten and a 50-year-old wo­man who inhaled tear gas during a clash died in addition to the 16. 
Zurab Zhankarashvili, a member of the Helsinki Watch group, said from Tbilisi that 50 people were killed Sunday and 560 injured. His report could not be con­firmed independently. 
Foreign Ministry spokes­man Gennady Gerasimov said Tuesday had been declared a day of mourning. Without providing details, he said all the deaths announced Sunday were civilians, and that they included 10 women and six men trampled when soldiers broke up the protest. 
The unrest and strike went 
on Monday despite a ban on 
public gatherings, imposition 
of an 11 p.m.-6 a.m. curfew 
and patrols by soldiers in 
tanks. 
As many as 1,000 people ig­nored the restrictions and massed at Tbilisi State Uni­versity at midday to "to in­form each other about what was going on and decide what to do next," said Zhankarash­vili, who was at the gathering. 
"The military stood there with their tanks and fright­ened the people off. They shot in the air,'' he said, adding that soldiers beat two stu­dents. 
Sergei Dandurov, a nationalist who also was at the meeting, said troops jumped from armored per­sonnel carriers and fired into the air. The crowd scattered, with some fleeing into a uni­versity building, he said. 
The delegation from the ruling Politburo was led by Shevardnadze, a Georgian who displayed sympathy to nationalists in his 1972-85 ten­ure as the republic's Commu­nist Party chief. The Polit­buro official in charge of party personnel, Georgy Razumovsky, also went to Tbilisi, Gerasimov said. 

Shevardnadze had just returned from London, and Gerasimov said he postponed a trip Wednesday to East Ger­many because of the unrest. Shevardnadze arrived in Tbilisi over the weekend, resi­dents said, and the Tass news agency said he met with intel­lectuals and media executives on how to resolve the dispute. No details were released. 
Shevardnadze, 61, also met with Georgian officials who called the "moral-political situation" in Tbilisi and other cities "extremely tense," Tass said. It said the leaders called on officials and plant managers to reject protesters' demands and "direct all efforts at stabiliz­ing the situation." 
As party chief, Shevardnadze repeatedly called for mutual respect and tolerance between Georgians and ethnic Abkhazians, a minority. 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO. 

Interviewing Skills Workshop 
Andersen Consulting will conduct Interviewing Skills Workshops june 12-16, August 30-31, September 1 & 
September 6-8 at our Center for Professional Education in St. Charles, Illinois. 
The purpose of this workshop is two-fold. First, it will assist our recruiters in developing the art of conducting an analytical type ofemployment interview designed to evaluate interviewees. Second, this program can offer valuable experience to students prior to the campus interviewing process this fall. 
As part of the seminar, each recruiter will conduct a 30-minute practice interview with each of two different students. Each interview will be video-taped for the purpose of critiquing the interviewer. Each student will be invited to view their tape and be critiqued. In addition to the practice interviews, we will also conduct an interviewing class which will cover aspects of the interviewing process from resume writing to evaluating job
offers. 
Ideal candidates for these interviews are engineering, computer science, business and MBA students entering their last year of school next fall. 
The workshop will take place each business day listed above from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. Participants should plan on arriving at St. Charles between 6:00p.m. and 8:00p.m. the evening prior to the workshop. We will provide you with overnight accommodations and meals at our Center in St. Charles. Participants will also be paid $25 for services as a practice interviewee. 
Ifyou are interested in participating, please forward a cover letter, resume and the date you are interested in attending by May 1, 1989 to: 
julie Arndorfer 
Andersen Consulting 

Interviewing Skills Workshop 
33 West Monroe Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60603 

Selected candidates will receive a letter with further details. 







Viewpoint
Tuesday, April11, 1989 
page 7 

=Ihe=ObserYer---= 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ..••........................ Eric Bailey OTS Director•....•............. Angela Bellanca Controller .••..••.........•.•..•...... Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni· vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pohc1es of the administration of e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and obJectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majonty of the following: Ed1tor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Ed1tor. Sports Ed1tor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Commentaries. letters and the 1ns1de Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty and the free express1on of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Apartheid awareness is start of change 
This week marks Apartheid Awareness Week at Notre Dame, part of the Year of Cultural Diversity. The object of this week is ''to educate students on the issue and hopefully they will decide what course of action they deem appropriate," according to John­Paul Checkett, chairman of Notre Dame's Anti­Apartheid Network. 
This is an admirable goal. Apartheid is an institu­tional form of racial prejudice, practiced by the white­only government of South Africa. It is a system that has been almost universally condemned outside of South Africa, as well as by many within the country. 
Solutions to this problem, however, prove problematic. Persuading the white government to relinquish the power they now possess to a black majority has been impossible to date. 
Proposed solutions vary from armed rebellion to political opposition. Various means have been tried, but the current government has shown little inclina­tion to change. 
Later this year, South African President P. W. Botha will step down for health reasons. This might prove an opportune time for change in the system. However, this change must be made internally. Outside forces, including the United States and the United Nations, cannot directly intervene in the internal affairs of the sovereign nation of South Africa. . 
South Africa is a key trading partner and ally of the United States. South Africa provides many rare minerals which are unavailable from any other country, except the Soviet Union. 
The United States is faced with a moral dilemma of which all citizens should be aware. The U.S. has a key ally whose justice system is morally unjustifiable and reprehensible. 
Anti-Apartheid week provides a time for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to become aware of the issues facing South Africa and apartheid. All stu­dents should be aware of these issues and also those facing the United States. 
Awareness alone, however, will solve nothing. There are no easy answers, but awareness of the sit­uation in South Africa is the first step on the road to changing it. 
DOONESBURY 
THERE ... ANO'f_ THAT5HJUW OON'T 

PICK 
HUP Y{)J Y{)J&V&R.. 

~ AVt/N, 
G&TA GeTANGRY~ 

~ ANY 
\
UTTt& 

: VeiN! 
I<&ST.

I 
I I 
NElL, I TR.Y NOT 7q 
JOAN!&. P&OPt& WITH A POS/TIV& ATTITUP& 68/1/&RAUY L.IV8 lONGeR. 8UT8V&I?Y NOtU 
THeN, LATe ATNIGHT, I'a 8& 1-t/ATO/ING 77-1!3 Nfi:W3, ANPRCA61W's 
FAa li/IU. Fl.A5H / BY... 

LETTERS 
Israel preserves rights of all Jewish people 
Dear Editor: 
In his article, "Israel: Land of Chaos and Corruption" (The Observer, April 6), Michael Carrigan states that Israel's purpose is to serve as an exam­pie of democracy, equality, freedom of religion, and justice for all the world to turn. Al­though these are all ideals that Israel upholds, they are not the purpose of Israel's existence. Nor is Israel's purpose to be the antithesis of Nazi Ger­many. The purpose of Israel is to ensure that Nazi Germany will never happen again. 
Mr. Carrigan is also mis­taken when he says that Israel is a place for the world to turn. Israel is a place for the Jews to turn. The U.S. is the place for the rest of the world to turn. The U.S. let the Jews down when it turned away thousands of refugees trying to escape Nazi Germany, but Israel will never let the Jews down. Mr. Carrigan goes on to say that the Israeli government uses many of the same methods to control the Palestinians that were used in Jewish persecu­tions. First of all, tear gas, rub­ber bullets, and bulldozers were never used to persecute the Jews. Entirely different 
methods such as gas cham­
bers, blood libels, and terrorist 
executions were used to per­
secute the Jews. 
The bottom line is that Israel 
has a right to do what it pmst in order to survive. One must realize that the Palestinians can turn to their Arab brothers or the major Palestinian. country of Jordan, but the Jews have only Israel and if protect­ing it means infringing on the rights of Palestinians then that's what's going to happen. 
The reason that Israel still occupies the territories is to preserve its safety. Sure, the Palestinians have the right to their own country, but not in a place that threatens the secur­ity of Israel. If you don't per­ceive the Palestinians as a threat to Israel, then you are forgetting that while Arafat's followers may want peace, the rest of the PLO wants total destruction of Israel. Two PLO factions, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine led by George Habash and the Syrian backed Palestinian Liberation Front led by Mohammed Abbas, are con­tinually launching terrorist at­tacks against Israel, even after Arafat's statement condemn­ing terrorism. Habash's group, which is the second largest fac­tion in the PLO, said that Arafat's renunciation of ter­rorism and recognition of Is­rael in December did not com­mit the PLO to anything and was not official policy. 
One must even question Arafat's words because he him­self doesn't stand by them. Two days after Arafat's Geneva press conference, the Kuwaiti newspaper Al-Siyassi quoted Salah Khalaf, the PLO' s num­ber two man, as saying "The establishment of a Palestinian state in any part of Palestine has as its goal the establish­ment of a Palestinian state in all of Palestine." Even after formally accepting Israel's right to exist, the PLO has yet to renounce the Ten Point Plan of "phased liberation," as well as changing or renouncing the Palestinian National Covenant which calls for Israel's destruc­tion. 
Mr. Carrigan should address the real problems facing Is­
rael,  not  "litter in  the  Holy  
Land.''  
Bill Lerman  
Flanner Hall  
April 7, 1989  


A special thanks to Christmas in April volunteers 
Dear Editor: 
A special thanks is due to all the members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity who participated in the "Christmas in April" program last Saturday, April 8. Almost one out of every five students responded by going on this mini "urban plunge." 
You spent the day in and around the homes of 43 deserv­ing homeowners in the North­east Neighborhood. You achieved a transformation on the inside and outside of these homes that was remarkable. 
There were homes that received new roofs and were painted completely inside and outside. Some new furnaces were installed. Carpentry, electrical, and plumbing work was accomplished. 
Roofing contractors, plumb­ing companies, and electrical contractors participated along with skilled tradesmen and ap­prentices in the electrical, roofing, plumbing, and car­pentry professions. 
The celebration at Senior Bar at the end of the day, hosted by the University, was an enthu­siastic event as you received personal thanks from Mayor Joe Kernan, Chris Murphy, Fa­ther Dave Tyson, Lou Holtz, and Renelda Robinson of the Northeast Neighborhood Asso­ciation. 
Please plan on participating again next April when we hope to achieve the same marvelous cooperative effort between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, faculty, staff, the Northeast Neighborhood, the City of South Bend, and Mis­hawaka. As several of our speakers commented, this community has not seen such an outpouring of volunteer ef­fort since the Special Olympics here at Notre Dame two years ago. 
James Roemer Director of Community Rela­tions April 10, 1989 

Sheen unqualified to speak on political issues 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Martin Sheen's recent "lec­ture" held on campus last week. At first I thought it was nice that such a famous actor was coming here to speak. That is until I realized what he was speaking on; in essence, he spoke on politics. I don't object to his having opinions. My ob­jection is that he is using his popularity as an actor to fur­ther the movements of the various groups and causes he supports. I find it very dismay­ing that the sponsor of the lec­ture was forced to donate money to the charity of Sheen's choice. But helping to fund these organizations is accepted by the general public. If the speaker had asked for a dona­tion to some right-wing organi­zation, I doubt the response would be as silent. 
Martin Sheen is an actor. If 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
,,. AND TH&N I'l.L.. R/3.­
M&M&R IT lOOK HIM 
81fT T/£N... ANI?He'S {:(X)08Y&,
SIX YMRS TO 5P!3AI< 
7H& MOR.-R&AOY TO SIA/e&T
PU8UaY ABOUTAlPS! 
PHIN£3 CAMPA/6N FRIENO. 
1
5/X Y&ARc;ANf) 
KICKS fOR HIM 
IN... ASAJN.

u / 21,000 
\ ):_~

t ~ Pf;AP/ 
his lecture had been on acting, I would not be as angry. What could possibly give him author­ity on politics? I sincerely hope that organizations continue to invite lecturers as they have been doing. In the future, I hope to see Secretary of State James Baker here to talk about movies. 
Jeremy Mayernik Holy Cross Hall April 7, 1989 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'To know what is right and 
not to do it is the worst 
cowardice.' 
Confucius 





Accent
page 8 Tuesday, April 11 , 1989 
""
Waiting 1n suspense for the Fondue Parlor 
MISSY IRVING accent writer 

T 
he Fondue parlor, located at the One Hundred Cen­ter in South Bend, is not the place to go for a first date, or even a second. Although the restaurant's motto is "taste the aroma of romance," noth­ing about the Fondue Parlor suggests it as a place to go for comfort or intimacy. You should dine elsewhere if you are going to be worried by lulls in the conversation or an inordinate wait that would interfere with other plans. 
The arrival 

We had made an 8:30p.m. reservation for Saturday eve­ning. When we arrived we were told by the hostess that "it will be a while." In the hour and fifteen minutes that ensued, we were left totally unattended and received no apologies for the wait or lack of attention to our needs. 

The wait 

The hostess disappeared without offering us a seat or inviting us into the cocktail lounge. We were not made to feel welcome in any way and had to escort ourselves into the lounge. It was empty ex­cept for our group, and after we received our iced-teas we had to wait another five minutes for lemon and sugar to arrive. Twice during this time we asked the hostess how much longer our wait would be, and both times we were answered without any empathy or concern that she had no idea how long it would be. 
We were especially frustrated by the fact that the restaurant was half empty and that we were the only party waiting for a table. The basic premise that a restau­rant is in business to serve is obviously not part of the Fondue Parlor's philosophy. One member of our party suggested that perhaps we were all players in someone else's bad dream. Indeed, the lack of any welcome, the slow and disinterested ser:vice in the lounge, and the excessive wait with no apologies, in spite of our reservation, con­tributed to a laughably nightmarish experience. 
To call the decor of the Fondue Parlor unassuming is a compliment. In both the lounge and the dining room we were surrounded by faux­brick and plywood walls. The bar in the lounge was unat­tended and had no adorn­ments such as exotic liqueur bottles or wall hangings, which would have signifi­cantly contributed to a more alluring ambience. Behind us there was a 2x4 frame which draped an unfinished garden lattice-work wall. The piano player was amiable and eager to please yet he knew none of the traditional piano­take a turn for the better. tion, and it would probably be bar songs we requested. He Although the wattage in the wiser to stick with the iced­finally began a pleasant se­glaring overhead light should tea because of the free refills. lection of contemporary soft­have been decreased by about Three appetizers were of­rock which didn't hinder con­half and the wall to one side fered, the most satisfying op­versation. was splattered wih day-old tion being the cheese fondue 

grease marks, a friendly and ($3.00 per person). It was ac­
We could not find anyone to efficient waitress immedi­companied by a basket of · provide us with a second ately attended to us and three varieties of fresh baked round of iced-teas, so I had to brought our salads and wine bread and apple chunks for go into the dining room and within five minutes. The dipping. The swiss cheese 
pour them myself from a salads, which are included in sauce had a tart wine taste pitcher on the bar. Yet at no the price of all entrees, con­and complemented the apples 
point in the evening did our sisted of fresh greens and better than it did the bread. dissatisfaction with the generous portions of peppers, Cheddar cheese fondue was Fondue Parlor dampen our tomatoes and croutons. The available as well, but we had spirits. ranch and French dressings been warned by friends that 
were both served in perfect it cooled into an unpleasant 
amounts and had a spicy runny paste. 
The appetizers quality that made them su­
perior to run-of -the-mill 
At 9:45p.m. we were bottled dressings. 

The entrees
seated in a spacious booth The wine list is short and with soft cushioned seats and rather pricy, yet the house felt, at last, that the chablis costs only $8 for a The fondue entrees are nightmare was over and our carafe. The wine was too uni-chicken ($6.95), beef ($8.50), 
fortunes were beginning to nspiring to warrant any atten-and seafood ($10.50). We or­dered chicken and beef which, including the ap­petizer, was more than enough for three people. All the fondues are priced per person, so you should beware of advertising the fact that you will be sharing dinners. In addition, prime rib, New York strip steak, and chicken cordon bleu are available for the less adventurous and cost only about $2.00 more than the fondues. 
The chicken and beef were served raw, with a tangy bat­ter and hot oil to fry them in. They were accompanied by an abundance of vegetables, all of which can be battered and deep fried as well. Thick onion rings, mushrooms, car­rots, broccoli, cauliflower, zucchini, and new baby potatoes were all tasty and went well with the dipping sauces. A thick, pungent dill sauce was everyone's favorite and closely rivalling it was the authentically flavored sweet and sour sauce. The barbecue sauce was a touch too peppery and overpowered the taste of anything that was dipped into it. The cocktail sauce went untouched by all but would probably be popular with the seafood fondue. 
Cooking the food was a messy chore, which is a prime example of why you don't want to go to the Fondue Parlor with someone you are trying to impress. Even the best mannered indi­viduals will experience sauce spots on their clothes. Fur­thermore, your dining experi­ence can potentially turn into a hilarious battle, with every­one fighting for "skewer space" in the oil. 
We all agreed that the beef was not worth the extra price and cooking it to your taste was too difficult to time. It's best to cut all the meat up into smaller pieces before frying to save time. Don't be afraid to ask for extra batter. Everything tastes better in it, and our pleasant server pro­vided us with three bowls throughout the meal. 


The dessert 
The food is the only thing that saves the Fondue Parlor from disgrace as a restau­rant. All the desserts offered sounded tantalizing, the best choice being the flaming chocolate fondue ($5.00 per person). It consisted of pineapples, cherries, pound cake, and marshmallows, with bittersweet chocolate for dipping. 
For about $8.00 a person you can enjoy a filling and entertaining dining experi­ence. But the Fondue Parlor offers a novelty that is entic­ing only once and one which should be attempted with old friends who don't mind spend­ing three and a half hours in an uninviting atmosphere. 


Oilers look to oust Gretzky 
Great One, Kings have backs to wall in NHL playoffs 
Associated Press 
The Edmonton Oilers are showing Wayne Gretzky that life goes on without him. 
The $15 million man and his new Los Angeles teammates go back to Inglewood, Calif., on Tuesday, one game away from elimination in the first round of the Stanley Cup. The potential eliminators: Gretzky's old Ed­monton teammates, whom he led to the NHL title four times in five years before being traded away last summer. 
Three other teams with 3-1 leads can also clinch opening­round series' Tuesday night. 
The Boston Bruins return home after winning two in Buf­falo; the St. Louis Blues, who almost clinched in Minnesota Sunday night, can clinch at home; and the Chicago Black­hawks are one game away from eliminating Detroit after making the playoffs only be­cause the NHL takes 16 of its 21 teams into postseason. 
Two other series resume tied 
2-2--Philadelphia and Washing­
ton at the Capital Centre and 
Vancouver and Calgary at the 
Saddledome. 
Pittsburgh eliminated the 
New York Rangers and 
Montreal knocked out Chicago 
by completing four game 
sweeps Sunday night. The Pen­
guins await the winner of the 
Philadelphia-Washington se­
ries while the Canadiens play 
the Buffalo-Boston winner. 
But the focus Tuesday will be on Gretzky, who could be eliminated from the playoffs in the opening round for the first time since 1982. 
"They played well and they deserve to be up 3-1, but I don't think it's a dominating 3-1," Gretzky said after he was booed every time he touched the puck in Edmonton, where his former teammates won 4-0 Saturday and 4-3 Sunday. 
Gretzky had assists on all the Los Angeles goals Sunday night, but the Oilers won on Steve Smith's goal with 26 seconds left. 
Now the Oilers are showing their playoff experience, even without the man who carried them. 
''I think that the fourth game is always the toughest one to win and there's no doubt that the L.A. Kings are going to come out with their strongest effort to this point,'' Smith said. ''We have enough playoff expe­rience to know what it takes. We also know that they have a fair bit of playoff experience in their dressing room." 
Chicago, meanwhile, is showing the value of the playoffs as a second season. 
After barely making the playoffs--they had to come from three goals down against Toronto in the final game of the season--the Blackhawks split in Detroit, then won 4-2 and 3-2 at home. 

AP Photo 

Craig McTavish and the Edmonton Oilers have their former teammate Wayne Gretzky one game away from elimination in the NHL playoffs. Edmonton leads the Los Angeles Kings 3-1 in their best-of-seven series, 
which resumes tonight. 
The Observer accepts classtfteds every business day from 10 a.m. unttl 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHice. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 until3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's oHice. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classtfteds is 3 p.m. All classifteds must

Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per ftve characters per day. 
LOST: Gold Bracelet in North Din1ng Haii­ATTENTION-HIRING! Government SCAP .... The Word of the Futurell! Use GRACE LAND Those responsible for the nun Fianner area. It is a promise bracelet from jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call it NOW!! 
GRACE LAND beating reference have been sacked.
NOTICES 
GRACE LAND great sentimental value and is irreplace· SUMMER JOBS 
my boytriend; you can see why it has 1-602-838-8885. Ext. R6262. 
... be there! We do, however, rather enjoy able. If you find it or have any information, GOING TO CHICAGO? I NEED A RIDE ALL LANDWATER SPORTS smashing small defenseless penguins in TYPING AVAILABLE PLEASE call Jennifer at x3590. THE AFTERNOON OF THURS. APRIL PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
the head with farge pointy rocks

287-4082 REWARD. 13 TO O'HARE FOR A 6:00PM ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS hlag FLIGHT...IF YOU CAN HELP CALL ANN NEAR LAKE PLACID LOST: SET OF KEYS room 213. Call AT X4928... CALL 1-800-343-8373. 
HEY KITTY AND RITA YOU T'NO ARE
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for Julie at # 3567. ............................................................... 
RED HOT BABES!!! LOVE YOU MARY
CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash I have a job, but I need a place to live. or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK Looking for roommate(s) to share costs "JUNIORS: HOW TO FILL OUT THE 
Our favorite dancer is 22 today! Happy BASEBALL FANS TRIP TO OPENING
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. LOST:a gold rope necklace on Fri 4fl. If on apartment in Ct'licago Call Keith x4197 PROFILE FORM." PAUL REYNOLDS 
birthday, Andrea!! DAY AT COMISKEY! CHISOX VS. A'S
Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. found PLEASE call x1326. OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­
TIX & BUS $16 CALL 3593 TK.

233-2342 GREAT PART-TIME OPPORTUNITY VICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. ROOM 
WARNING These personals may contain 
GAIN EXPERIENCE AND EARN 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL 
insanely profound, yet backwards, per­If anyone is staying in South Bend for
Photographers needed MONEY by working on Fortune 500 MAJORS WELCOME. 
sonals subconciously prompting you to the summer and needs a roommate or
Amateur:tprotesslonal for Australia. Companies' marketing programs 
on

FOR RENT I attend the: ST. ED'S CHARITY CAR· would like to get an apartment, call Tony 
National Institute of Exploration "JUNIORS: HOW TO FILL OUT THE
campus. 2-4 FLEXIBLE hours each NIVAL 
at x1537

June 20-July 13. Cost $3,300 PROFILE FORM." PAUL REYNOLDS
week. Applications being taken for Im­
Call Bruce 219-733-2170 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­
mediate and Fall 89 openings. Call: HEY ANNE MCCARTHY-Happy 
I need three Graduation tickets Will

219·291·7153 VICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00P.M., ROOM
1-BD0-821-1543. Birthday! Remember our bet? This pay big bucks. call Chuck at 1173
123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL 

weekend, Partner!Love ya kiddo, Tara
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MAJORS WELCOME. 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. Many thanks to Susan,Wiii,Tim,Jim,
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
287-6389, 683-8889. Tatoo your body! Only at the f2St. Ed's Tammy and the rest of Lamanna's
RIGHT TO LIFE OFFICER ELECTIONS 

FOR SALE Hall Charity Carnival f1Sunday, April 23 awesome Urban Planning class. A trip to
TYPING APPLICATIONS WILL BE MAILED 
HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE It's for real. remember, or rather, not to remem­
PICKUP & DELIVERY TURN IN TO ANY OFFICER BY 4'12 
SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232·3616 ber!MMM
277-7406 NEED APP? PICK UP IN 243
CANNONDALE Mtn. Bike. 1 yr. old, ex· LIVE IT, LOVE ITSIEGFRIED
GRADUATE STUDENT ellent cond., $375-t>.o. Craig 283·3014 ZEPFEST Ill Ithaca NY, Cornell vicinity I need a ride 
RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a Beautiful room, private bath, laundry, 4-27-51 call Molly at 4190 Opal and diamond pendant & ring set in
kitchen privileges, security system, 12 1628 PORTAGE AVE.
computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­HAPPY BIRTHDAY AILEEN 
gold. Appraised $625, will sell much less. THIS FRI. (4:00P.M.) AND SAT. (3:00 ••••••••••••*•••••••••••••••••••••• IrS
mlns. from campus. 272-5989.
vice anytime at 299-0063. 
Leave message, 272-7606 t COMING ..... ANTOSTAL'89 SIGN UPS
from your greated admirer P.M.) GET THE LED OUT!!! 
MALE GRADUATES WEDNESDAY APRIL 12
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
Pink frilly infant dresses, like new. Leave
Furnished rooms, air, kitchen, fridge, 6-8 P.M. S.U.B.
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
message, 272-7606.

5 min. N. campus. 272-()615. GOLF TOURNEY, AIR BAND,
lavlnrac ytlrahc s'dets CALCUTTA RAIN 
MATTRESS RRACE, TIRE ROLLING.,

CLUB TUESDAY TONIGHT at SMC tl sslm t'nod Wednesday at BRIDGET'S
BUICK CENTURY SPECIAL 76 350$
2·BDRM APARTMENT IMPERSONATIONS CHARIOTS, PIL·
8:30-11 Brian Huskey will perform. Free Get Wet Live!-10 p.m.
CALL NOEL 272-65-62 EVENINGS
AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER LOW FIGHTS, TUG OF WAR SLAM
performance and food. Everyone Wel­
CALL 271-8904 DUNK, OBSTACLE COURSE. KISSER,
come!! JJUNfORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS­
ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT HOMES 
CHALK DRAWING

JUNIORS.... ACDM·Champ will wait until the gift is
from $1 (u-repalr). Delinquent tax 
DON'T FEEL LEFT OUT!!! 

Save your money, senior trip sign ready. Svelte
property. Repossessions. Call 1-602­
Staying for the summer? Need a place 
ups coming soon 1!1!!
838-8885 Ext. GH-6262.

to sleep? Sublease our APT!!!!!! TURTLE CREEK! FULLY FURNISHED! call 2n-NDAFROTC PIDM Top Ten 10.Left,Left,
JJUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS­

ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED 
Right 9.Uh guys, I think we missed the

3346. JUNIORS.... WHY HELLO PHIL KRAKER! A WON­
VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mer­
turnoff8.Sec. of the Air Force?

I LOST/FOUND l 
DERFUL FRI. HAS COME AND GONE
cedes Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus 
7.Yes,Sgt.Drifl Benn Drill Sgt.Benn

MARION STREET "FRAT HOUSE" FOR IF YOU GOT A SURVEY ON BUT MANY MORE ARE ON THE
Buyers Guide. 1-602-838-8885 Ext. A-
6.T~ese weapons are unacceptable 5. V

THANKS
FOUND: Set of keys in room 215 O'Shag. RENT 9person oc­6262. NOTRE DAME DINING HALLS HORIZON!! FOR TAKING 
have Z IDA! 4.Bravo Echo November No­

cupancy,2baths,bsktbllcrt pool tbl,3rd please send them in to us throug Campus CARE OF ME,
A University of Notre Dame Keychain­
vember 3.Ross,you sleep with your eyes

floor bar&party room 3 car garage,fire Mail. We really appreciate all you help. LOVE,
room 309. Call # 3688 to claim. 
WATERBED open! 2. PortRob, PortRob! 1. Jeff, can
place,washer&dryr must see this MOLLY
QUEEN SIZE,HEATER,WOOD 
I get into your pants now Thanks guys,

I LOST MY MOST PRIZED POSSES· home'call 289·1233 Jethro, Tull me about yourself.
FRAME!!!! if interested call 277-3346. 
had a blast, you're awesome! Your lear­

SION A GOLD AND DIAMOND HEART 
full leader

SUMMER APT-2 BR, Turtle Creek Fully "Triple A Student Painters" now hiring HAVE YOU TOLD MARY MAHONEY
SHAPED NECKLACE. IF YOU FOUND Macintosh (128K) For Sale! Includes im­IT PLEASE CALL LISA AT 4945 furnished-call 2598 college and high school students for sum· SHE IS A GODDESS YET TODAY?
agewriter. numeric keyboard, dust covers RIGHT TO LIFE
DON'T YOU THINK YOU SHOULD?
and mouse pad. Call Brennan at x1808. 
mer. Good wages. Call 291·2158. Wed. 7:30 Siegfried Hall
Turtle Creek Apt for sublease during SHE MIGHT EVEN PAY YOU, SO
LOST:BLUE NAUTICA JACKET AND 
Officer Applicants Attand 

summer months; call Felix 3368 or Matt THINK ABOUT IT.
SONY WALKMAN-WED. NIGHT AT 
'86 Chevrolet Cavalier. Metallic Brown.
3255

STEPAN CENTER REWARD-CALL 
Excellent Condition. Auto-.matic Trans­
CAREER DAY CAREER DAY CAREER

1616 IF FOUND. NO ?'S mission. Low Mileage--22,000. $5,500. I am disappointed how this weekend
DAY Saturday April 15, 9am-12noon Attn all Sweeney Slater tans: Now Is 
I 
Call 2n-8881 be--tween 5 P.M. and 8 turned out. It was all my fault. Please
CCE Lunch will follow from 12·1 :30pm. the time to get your auto graphs and
found between NOH and psych bid. on P.M. 
accept my apology. The KB

A presentation will be made by Career celebrity paraphenalla Just back from
tues 4-5. one goldish 314 loop earring. it WANTED ..................................................... 
and Placement Services Among com­their recent tour to Lowell, IN these
doesn't go with my new spring collection 
"LF5"TOP 1 0 QUOTES FROM MARIA'S 

panies attending: Bendix, Arthur Ander· girls couldn't be hotter! Call them et
so call x4436 to claim. 
..________, I 
KERRY'S PARTY-APRIL 7,1989"LM 

FRUSTRATED? sen & Delco Electronics Sponsored by their hotllne 283-COOL to talk to Liz
TICKETS 10)"The bearded man gets the bearded
Need Money? Part ttme,13K-53K year. the Society of Women Engineers, sign and Candy and get all their deep dark
WEDDING RING LOST WEDNESDAY, a friend with everyone
woman." 9)"1'm

Now seektng htghly motivated people for ~------------' up at Engineering Student Center. For secrats
PROBABLY NEAR HAYES.HEALY. 
here. 8)"1've come to get at least one."

opportunities in management and sales. questions call Colleen # 1308 or Melissa
WIDE BAND, SILVER. CALL PROF. MONEY MONEY MONEY 
7)"Shred 'til you're dead, dude." 6), am

I need help now! Call Phil 219·232-4783 #43 My dearest Phil Kraker: I want you to
SAYRE 239-7124. REWARD I NEED GRADUATION TIX and I can an
a cosmic orphan." 5)"1'm immigrant

stroke my blonde hair on the elevator
make it worth your while, call Dan at 
on the oceans of ecstasy." 4)"Jello is for

CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE Need ride to IU for Little 500 Can leave where no one can disturb us, espe­
3365. 
kids." 3)"Bill Bear was here in spirit for

WANTED FOR AIRLINE SERVING 419 or 4'20 X4340 cially Molly. I lusted tor you In the car 
free beer." 2)"1 double pump before I

LOST: BEIGE GUCCI WALLET, SOUTH BEND. PLEASE CONTACT and I dream of the nita -can con­
shoot." 1 )"Under these clothes I am com­

CANVAS & PIGSKIN. LOST AT J.GEDRA, CONTINENTAL EXPRES summate our love. Please take a walk
I need Grad.tlx. Wllf pay high S. Call 
pletely naked."

SENIOR BAR ON THURSDAY BE­STANDARD OIL BLDG, CLEVELAND. NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP with me on the path of love. I want
Chrla at 277-6921.

TWEEN MIDNIGHT AND 1 AM. OHIO 44135. PLAQUES you to father my children. 
CLUB TUESDAY TONIGHT AT SMC

PLEASE CALL GARRETT KANEHANN ORDER FORMS AVAILABLE Love you always, Robbie AT 287-5871. REWARD. I NEED GRADUATION TIX MON-WED CLUB TUESDAY TONIGHT AT SUC IN A BIG BIG WAY!! DINING HALLS & 8:30-11 FREE FOOD!!

l PERSONALS I
LOST: BROWN HIPPO WALLET ON CALL DAN # 3495 SENIOR CLASS OFACE ENGINEERS' WEEK Treasure Hunt-­NO CAMPUS WEDNESDAY APR. 5. $$$$$$$$ Clue # 2 You'll be on your way out When BRIAN HUSKEY PERFORMING CALL CHRIS BRACKEY 287-5871. you find the certificate That will make you TONIGHT AT CLUB TUESDAY 8:30-11
Hey babe, nice life, nice bod, where'd 
REWARD. scream and shout PIZZA WILL BE SERVED. EVERYONE
you dig it up?-3 sees 

CLERKS -**'SENIORS"**'' WELCOME.
(gee that rhymes with something)

M-F 10pm to Sam;Sam to 12m 4.25-hr CHICAGO TRIP ALL TOASTMASTERS CALL SEAN 283· M·F 9am to 4pm 4.00t1r Great Little Food WED APR 12 1023 GREASE April 12 at SMC in Haw­LOST: A blue and white Wilson goll Store 12760 US 23 Granger 277·8102 FOREIGN STUDENTS Job-Hunting TIX STILL AVAILABLE Game room. Shows at 7 & 9. Free Food. umbrella. If you found it in Dr. Kuller's SENIOR CLASS OFACE Everyone Welcome.
Guide (Rev. 1989). Send $19.95 for the NOTICE! 8:OOam econ test on Thurs. Please return ....*SENIORS'**"' In yesterday's personal section a refer­
ACT IN TV COMMERCIALS. NO EXPE­step-by-step guide. lvysoft, PO Box it to Tracy x4927. RIENCE. ALL AGES. CHILDREN, 241090, Memphis, TN 38124 ence to nun beating was made See John & Olivia in GREASE at SMC TEENS, YOUNG ADULTS, FAMIUES, in the ad for the April 12 at 7 & 9. Free Food and Free FOUND: ONE SET OF KEYS ON ETC. HIGH PAY TV ADVERTISING. The Holy Cross Fathers are in s!ep. ELISA DUNN ST. ED'S CHARITY CARNIVAL show for everyone! Haggar Game Room. SOUTHQUAD BENCH OUTSIDE CALL FOR CASTING INFORMATION. ND-·GET IN STEP!!! AVIA doesn't want you buying We would like to apologize for the refer· Grease is the word. ALUMNI HALL ON THURS. PLEASE CHARM STUDIOS, (313) 542-8400 EXT. ND AAN their shoes ence and assure you that we in no way CALL J.C. AT 1001 TO CLAIM. 2283. support such heinous activities. PARROT HI!!ADS FOREVER 

Tuesday, April 11, 1989
The Observer 

page 10 
AP Photo 

Ruben Sierra (sliding) doubled in the winning run as Texas downed Milwaukee 6-4 in 1 0 innings Monday. Sierra had a game-winning, two-run homer the night before against Toronto. 
J,' 'I 


FRESHMAN PRE-ADVANCE REGISTRATION PROGRAMS 
Pre-advance registration programs will be conducted for freshmen in all college program areas on 
Tuesda~, April 11, 1989. At each program complete information will be given on the advance 
registration procedures and on the sophomore year and its relationship to the degree program. 
The meeting places for the programs, according to college program area, are as follows: 
Arts and Letters College Programs (All, including AL Preprofessional) 
Engineering (Cushing) Auditorium A through K at 6:30 P.M. L through Z at 8:00 P.M. 

Business Administration College Program 
Hayes-Healy Auditorium A through F at 6:30 to 7:20 P.M. G through M at 7:30 to 8:20 P.M. N through Z at 8:30 to 9:20 P.M. 
Engineering College Program (All programs to start at 6:30 P.M.) 
Aerospace 12 Aerospace Building (75) 
Architecture 202 Architecture BuildinQ 
Chemical 182 Fitzpatrick Hall Civil 205 Cushing Hall Electrical and Computer Engineering 356 Fitzpatrick Hall Materials Science and Engineering 384 Fitzpatrick Hall Mechanical 120 Cushing Hall 

Science College Programs (All programs except Physics to start at 6:30 P.M.) 
Biological Sciences 283 Galvin Life Science Center Chemistry 127 Nieuwland Science Hall 
(Combined with Preprofessional) Earth Sciences 101 Earth Science Building Mathematics 300 Computing Center/Math Bldg. Physics 118 Nieuwland Science ~:00 P.M.) Preprofessional 127 Nieuwland Scienceall 
(All majors, this includes all collegiate sequence majors.) SCIENCE ONLY 


Financial Aid Information -5:30 P.M. Engineering (Cushing) Auditorium 
FRESHMEN ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND THE PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR DEPARTMENT THEY INTEND TO ENTER IN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR. 
....... 



Sierra's hit paces Rangers; Stieb hurls another 1-hitter 
Associated Press was a two-out, homer by Lonnie homer by Joe Carter in the Smith in the third inning, sixth. Smithson finished the 
MILWAUKEE--Ruben scoring pitcher Pete Smith who game to pick up his second Sierra doubled in the go-ahead had walked. save. run in the lOth inning Monday Tony Gwynn homered as the Texas Rangers spoiled leading off the fourth to move A's 4, Angels 0 Milwaukee's home opener by the Padres within 2-1. beating the Brewers 6-4. ANAHEIM, Calif.--Bob 
Sierra's hit off Milwaukee Mariners 6, Chisox 5 Welch allowed three hits in reliever Chuck Crim, 0-1, fol­eight innings and Glenn Hub­lowed a walk to Rafael Pal­SEATTLE--Dave Valle bard homered Monday night, meiro. Cecil Espy singled in the tripled off a King dome speaker leading the Oakland Athletics 
final run for the Rangers, who to drive in the go-ahead run in past the California Angels 4-0. won for the fifth time in six a three-run seventh inning games. Monday night and the Seattle Royals 3, 0's 0 
The victory went to Texas Mariners hung on to beat the reliever Jeff Russell, 1-0, who Chicago White Sox 6-5 in their KANSAS CITY, Mo.--Bret struck out Robin Yount with home opener. Saberhagen threw a three­two on and two outs in the bot­hitter Monday night, leading tom of the ninth and then Phils 7, Expos 6 the Kansas City Royals past
retired the Brewers in order in Baltimore 3-0 for their 14th con­
the lOth. PHILADELPHIA--Von secutive victory over · the
Hayes led off the bottom of the 
Orioles.

Jays 8, Yanks 0 ninth with his second home run of the game to give the NEW YORK--Dave Stieb, Philadelphia Phillies a 7-6 vic­
Reds 8, Astros 3

who closed last year with con­tory over the Montreal Expos secutive one-hitters, pitched a 
Monday night. HOUSTON--Eric Davis'one-hitter in his second start of Hayes' homer over the right­three-run homer highlighted athe season as the Toronto Blue field fence came on the first four-run, fifth inning and TomJays beat New York 8-0 Monday pitch of the inning by Gene Har­Browning won his 18th game in night, the Yankees' sixth ris, 1-1, to make a winner of 20 decisions, leading the Cin­straight loss. 
reliever Steve Bedrosian, 1-0. cinnati Reds over the HoustonStieb, 1-0, gave up just Jamie Astros 8-3 Monday night. 
Quirk's solid single to center 
Bosox 5, Tribe 2
with one out in the fifth. He struck out five and whlked four. BOSTON--Nick Esasky Dodgers 7, Giants 4 
Padres 5, Braves 2 homered in his Boston debut and Wade Boggs keyed rallies SAN FRANCISCO--Eddie 
SAN DIEGO--Bruce Hurst with a pair of singles Monday Murray hit a grand slam for pitched the first one-hitter of as the Red Sox won their home his first homer with Los An­his career and struck out 13 as opener 5-2 over Cleveland. geles to cap a five-run, ninth­the San Diego Padres beat the Mike Boddicker, 1-0, blanked inning rally as Orel Hershiser Atlanta Braves 5-2 Monday the Indians on two hits for five and the Dodgers beat San Fran­night. innings before giving way to cisco 7-4 Monday night to spoil 
The only hit Hurst allowed Mike Smithson after a two-run the Giants' home opener. 

Sweep 
continued from page 16 
field, while the Musketeers had five miscues. 
Erik Madsen went the dis­tance, allowing eight hits and two earned runs in the nine­mmng game. The junior pitcher's record went to 5-2 on the year. 
Senior second baseman Mike . 

Moshier, who had two hits in each game, was the only Irish player to record four hits in the doubleheader. 
Sophomore Mike Coss went 2-of-6 for the two games and provided solid play at third base. 
Notre Dame plays eight games in the next week, start­ing Wednesday at Illinois­Chicago. At this point last season, the Irish held a 14-12 record. 

/ 
But Clemens  
faces 'boos'  
in Beantown  
Associated Press  
BOSTON--The unofficial ver­ 
dict from the Fenway crowd  
came without hesitation on  
Monday: you can cheat on your  
wife, but never, ever say anyth­ 
ing bad about the hometown  
fans.  
Boston Red Sox third  
baseman Wade Boggs, whose  
extramarital affair with Margo  
Adams has grabbed sports  
headlines since last June, got a  
resounding ovation from the  
packed Fenway Park crowd on  
opening day. But when it came  
time to introduce ace pitcher  
Roger Clemens, the boos  
couldn't have been louder if a  
New York Yankee had walked  
on the field.  
The reason was simple  
enough to those in the stands.  
"Clemens dimped on the fans  
and Boggs didn't," said Ken  
Magrath, who was watching  
the action from an upperdeck  \.  
box seat. "You know what they  
say about Red Sox baseball: It's not life and death. It's more  - 
serious than that."  
Neither player could possibly  
be drawing bad press for on­ 
the-field performance in past  
years. Boggs has won five bat­ 
ting titles in six years and  AP Photo  
Clemens is a two-time Cy  
Young Award winner and was  Boston Red Sox pitching ace Roger C lemens took an accidental beating  
the 1986 MVP.  from Kansas City baserunner Dan ny Tartabull in a play earlier this  
But over the summer,  season, and has not been warmly  welcomed by fans in Fenway Park,  
Clemens stepped into the off­ either.  
season spotlight with some  To be sure, the Boggs saga  ".356 lifetime avg. And you  
vague remarks about how he  was not entirely ignored.  thought it was the chicken."  
was unhappy in Boston, how  Outside Fenway a pair of en­ They were selling fast at $5 a  
the area did not afford the fam­ terprising and unlicensed T­ piece.  
ily atmosphere he valued in life  shirt salesmen were hawking  "We just come up with this  
and how he did not feel the  shirts that referred back to his  idea sitting in the shop the  
team did enough to protect his  claim that an all-chicken diet  other night," Jim Davis said as  
family at the ballpark from  helped him on the field.  he doled out the shirts from a  
rowdy fans.  The shirt bore the message:  shopping cart.  

Tuesday, April 11, 1989 The Observer page 11 


ND clubs look for best-ever finishes 
The Water Polo Club held elections a few weeks ago for positions on next year's club. Jay Blount will take over as coach while Anthony Baerlocher will lead the club as its president. Kelly Tam-Sing and Bill O'Meara also were elected to positions within the club. 
Greg Scheckenbach 
Club Corner 


The Water Polo Club is having its most successful season ever. While losing only one game all year, the club has recorded more quality wins then ever against stronger opponents. Its only loss came at the hands of Michigan State earlier in the year. Notre Dame will look to avenge the loss to the Spartans in two weeks when the club travels to East Lansing, Mich., for a tournament with many talented Midwestern teams. 
On the horizon, Notre Dame may possibly host a three­team, round-robin tournament near An Tostal week. 
Men's Volleyball Club also will end its most suc­cessful season in the next week. Notre Dame is coming off a hard-fought victory againt Miami (Ohio) last Satur­day 15-12, 15-11, 10-15, 7-15, 15-5. The win improved Notre Dame's record to 23-10, which is their most successful when taking into account their schedule that included many varsity teams. 
Graduate student Pat Burke led the Irish with 14 kills while junior Mike Sheedy snuffed Miami with six blocks. Senior Captain Mike Shimota had 17 digs from the setter position. Shimota, who is in his fourth year on the squad, calls this the best team he has played with at Notre Dame. 
"Our enthusiasm is good for nearly all the games," stated Shimota. "That is the key to reaching our goal of making the club nationals." 
The Irish will play in the Midwestern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association tournament this weekend in Fort Wayne. The winner of this tournament will travel to the club nationals held at UC-Berkley. Notre Dame, which won its conference with an undefeated record, should be seeded in the top three going into the tournament. 
Hey Ev, 
HAPPY 19th 


BIRTHDAY!! 
(Only a little late) From 
All of Us!! 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents The Power and the Glory by Dennis Cannan and Pierre Bost Adapted from the novel by Graham Greene 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Setting and Lighting designed by Willard Neuert Costumes designed by Richard E. Donnelly 
Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April19-8:10pm Thursday, April20-8:10pm Friday, April21-8:10pm Saturday, April22-8:10pm Sunday, April23-3:10pm 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 ·students/Senior Citizens $4 •(Wed., Thurs., Sun. only) 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office Weekdays, 12:15pm to 6pm 
MasterCard/Visa orders call239-5957 




Fenway fans still love Boggs 
Ben Johnson facing inquiry 
Associated Press not deposit all his earnings to money had to be there when it 
a special trust fund set up un­came time to send it to the 
TORONTO-Sprinter Ben der the rules of international (trust account)." Johnson withdrew thousands of amateur sport. The International Amateur dollars from a private safe Instead, Earl said he stored Athletic Federation, the after his career skyrocketed in thousands of dollars in cash governing body of track and 1986, his financial adviser told and bank drafts in a safe at his field, requires athletes to a Canadian inquiry Monday. home. Johnson later bought a deposit their earnings in such 
In his second day of tes­safe of his own, Earl testified. trust funds, allowing them to timony before a probe into drug "He came to me on several withdraw living expenses until use by Canadian track and field occasions when he was short of they retire or turn professional. athletes, Ross Earl testified money," said Earl, a family Earl said the sprinter bought that Johnson, the world record­friend of Johnson's for 12 years. two sports cars worth nearly holder in the 100-meter dash did "I kept cautioning Ben that the $400,000. 
~0~\) ~~c'J~i W\ ~t. 
1\"\)~ 
..J_O_R_D_A_N.. ELIZABETH C. HOWL 
Bookstore 
New & Used Cars & Trucks FQRD 
continued from page 16
Ext. 667 
lOYOlA VOLVO 

who scored five points in the Rockers winning effort. 
-~ ....t, 

The Dream Machine imme­diately followed with 104 at­tempts from the field en route 

p~ (219) 259·1981 ("!.1 I""'V P 0 Bo• 370 Elkhart Area Can (219) 674-9926 \..:) ~ ~•sl'lawaka. IN 46!>45 
609 E Jefferson Boulevard 

lndaana Toll Free (800) oi51-6S:i6 
??-.oG.?-.~ 





$400 REBATE* 
Largest Ford Inventory #1 Selling Ford Dealer in Country For further information, call Elizabeth 
to a 21-14 victory over The Fresh Five, who contributed 89 shots of their own. Tony Talarico was the weak link for The Fresh Five, hitting only 1­of-20 shots in the game. 
In other action, Matt Killian shot a blistering 11-of-13 from the field in leading Air Satan and the Disciples of Doom to a 21-13 win over Gulli-Bulls. 
George Dewhirst, Navy cap­tain and founder of the Ollie North Fan Club, was held 
scoreless as his Air Force ROTC team was eliminated 21­
* This is in addition to any present _progr~rr~ 
•I 10 by The Keltic Savants . 
The Observer Tuesday, April 11, 1989
page 12 

Softball rivalry beains todav 
ND, Saint Mary's play for cross-highway bragging rights 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
After placing third in the Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence Tournament this past weekend, the Notre Dame softball team resumes its reg­ular schedule today with a doubleheader against Saint Mary's. 
This will be the first game this season between the Belles and the Irish (14-13) . Two games scheduled for St. Patrick's Day were rained out. 
"This will be a big game for the girls," said Notre Dame head coach Brian Boulac. "They were really disap­pointed with the rainout, and they are all looking forward to playing Saint Mary's." 
Saint Mary's (3-3) will start either Michele Pinter or Kim Benjamin at 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame softball field, be­hind the Eck Pavillion. 
The Irish will be well­practiced for the twinbill after playing five games in the MCC tournament over the weekend. Notre Dame won three out of five games in its first year playing as a varsity team in the MCC. 
The tournament began on Friday in Indianapolis, where the Irish downed Butler 7-6 in their opening game, beating the Bulldogs for the third time this year. Butler scored one run in the top of the first inning to take an early lead, but Notre Dame came back with five runs in the second and added an­other in the third. 
Butler later tied the game, but the Irish scored in the bot­tom of the sixth to win. 
"We played just hard enough to win," Boulac said of the Irish effort. "It was a sloppy game. Every time they caught up we went ahead.'' 
The Butler players did them­selves in by committing six er­rors, which led to six unearned runs. 
The Irish faced Detroit in a second game Friday, losing an extra inning contest 1-0. Missy Linn, who pitched a complete game for Notre Dame against Butler, started and took the loss against Detroit despite not allowing an earned run. 
''We played hard against Detroit," Boulac said. "We played good defensivley, and you couldn't have asked for any more, other than a few more hits." 
Detroit eventually went on to win the tournament for the third straight year. 
Following the loss to Detroit, the Irish entered the loser's bracket and played Loyola on Saturday. In a close game, 
Notre Dame defeated the Ramblers 5-4. The Irish col­lected 10 hits in the game, in­
cluding  two  each by Rachel  
Crossen  and  Laurie  
Sommer lad.  

On Sunday Notre Dame beat the Dayton Flyers 2-0. It was a scoreless contest until the sixth inning, when Dawn Boulac delivered a game-winning RBI single. Linn won her third game in three days. 
"Missy pitched two very fine ballgames against Detroit and Dayton," Boulac said. "It was a lot of games for her to pitch, but she did well.'' 
Notre Dame lost 3-1 to St. Louis after the Dayton game. The Billikens were the only team in the MCC that the Irish had not played before the tournament. St. Louis, which later lost to Detroit and finished second, was playing only its third game, while the Irish were playing their fifth contest in three days. 
"We went into the tourna­ment hoping that we could come out a winner, and the girls were disappointed that they didn't win," Boulac said. 
"We learned an awful lot about ourselves this weekend,'' he continued. "We have to be hungry every game, because if we don't do well, we're out of it." 


Bookstore starts 2nd week 
Monday's Results 

Stepan 1 4:00-The Fugitive Guys Finale over Upright Organs by 18 4:45-Digger Phelps & 4 Other Guys ... over 3 Cheaters & 2 Drunks by 13 5:30-Red Snapper over Sweet Leal by 14 6:15-Air Satan & the Disciples of Doom over Gulli­Bulls by 8 
Stepan 2 4:00-4long Cookies & a Chocolate Chip over Music Master 9... by 10 4:45-One Stag & 4 Stallions over 5 Guys, no he1ght, no talent. . . by 12 5:30-Chestnut Mousse lightn1ng over Abu Nidal &
. i the Card ... by 14 6:15-Stanford 'A' over Raul Gonzalez by 11 

Stepan 3 4:00-Sly & The Family Stone over Air Borden by 12 4:45-Bo1nk over E.T. & the Lincoln Logs by 4 5:30-Train & the Fuzzbusters over Pete Kern & 4 Other Guys by 15 6:15-Only Girls Can Beat Us over Loveable Asparagus by 14 
Stepan 4 4:00-5 Hodgemasters over We thought we were playing chess by 14 4:45-Hoopsters from hell over Paranoid Basilmitt & the 4 stripes by 1 0 5:30-We got the tools but not the talent over Beer by 2 6:15-4 Guys & a cute ballhandler over Men with the key by 15 
Stepan 5 4:00-Corporate Raiders over 3 Basketball Terms we couldn't print by 7 4:45-Pink Steel over The Younger the better by 8 5:30-The Keltic Savants over Air Force ROTC by 11 6:15-Stoney & the Friday night wrecking crew over The Schmools by 8 
Stepan 6 4:00-Ebert & the Rockers over Dan Quayle, Jane Fonda, and 3... by 3 4:45-The Dream Machine over The Fresh Five by 7 5:30-Orange Blossom Special ... over Return of the b1g men ... by 1 t 6:15-4 Guys who like girls & a dillonite over Red Cross Medical Express by 16 
Bookstore 9 4:00-Murphy's Men over English Muffets by 12 4:45-Kitty Dukakis & 4 Others ... over Barry Switzer, Jimmy Johnson... by 15 5:30-Liquid Lunch over Not a chance in hell by 2 6:15-Cavanaugh Fun Warriors and Rob over T.D.'s Blown Rap by 1 0 
Bookstore 10 4:00-Fletch on ice over Andre's Seven by 7 4:45-The Mephlstophelian Meatuses over The lol­lipop Boys by 19 5:30-5 larry Birds who can't shoot over You win by 14 6:15-We are better than a sharp stick in the eye 

/ 
I, 
\I 

over Murph can't drink by 20 
Lyons 11 4:00-Four men & their red-headed stepchild over Wag's team by 12 4:45-Bumblebees II over Right Here by 16 5:30-B.V. Deviants over Darwin's Failure by 2 6:15-WNDU over We might act crazy but... by 13 
Lyons 12 4:00-Dan Quayle, Digger Phelps, & 3 other guys over Doobie Brothers by 2 4:45-Duke & Dongs over Spot us 10 by 16 5:3Q-Spudd Webb & 4 other short guys over With ourselves by 14 6:15-A really bad cough over Get up! by 12 
Tuesday's Games 

Stepan 1 4:00-licensed to Brick vs. Ted Bundy & the Electrics 4:45-Posse in effect vs. Snark 5:30-We may not win but we get chicks vs. We dribble before we shoot 6:15-The Chubbies vs. Swish Swish Brick 
Stepan 2 4:00-Clockwork Orange vs. Freedom Rock 4:45-Stinky Pinkys vs. I hate to see her wrestle but I love to watch her box 5:30-Maureen McFadden is a fabulous chick vs. Malodorous Bad Athletes 6:15-Short, Slow, & Stupid vs. Maui Wowie 
Stepan 3 4:00-Kevin Machen Harem vs. Four Guys who wish they could play B-ball &... 4:45-Love handles vs. Body odor, bad breath, Keith Tower, & 2 other ... 5:30-Get off our tips vs. Sex 6:15-Dr. Edwin Justice & the Green Kareems vs. Boob Leffler & Shamokin Heat 
Stepan 4 4:00-Lenny's American Grill vs. R.P. Nes, Gozinya, & 3 intimate friends 4:45-Scum Bags vs. Sarin's Nephews 5:30-High Voelkage vs. Asmodeus & the clam eaters 6:15-4 Guys who like girls & a texan vs. We want to score 
Stepan 5 4:00-Medicine in Motion & History Guy vs. Lou's School of Driving 4:45-Clueless IV: The Final Chapter vs. 5 Dried Boogers on a shower stall wall 5:30-Manute Bot's 5 Shorter Brothers vs 1 Jim-Bob Daddy Otis & 4 Other ... 6:15-Physical Plant vs. Supreme Dorks 
Stepan 6 4:00-Malicious Prostitution vs. 4 Skins and a shirt 4:45-Slapping the holes vs. 5 Guys who can't score ins1de 5:30-Basses o· Death vs. The Monsters: The dis­ciples of the death ball 6:15-Phil, the man, & the dudes vs. The dorf, 2 geeks, & the salad bar freaks 
Bookstore 9 4:00-4 Drunks, and a driver out on bali vs. Pontious driver's nail driving 5 4:45-The 2nd Book ol Maccabees vs. Nads 5:30-OB's Pub vs. Teetles & the 4 rips 6:15-Butt-kickers & hand takers vs. Ocean Motion 
Bookstore 10 4:00-The fellas vs. 3-Man Team 4 45-Elvis is alive and well vs. Star's Studs 5:30-Freak vs. Activated Sludge 
6:15-Air Borden & the milkman vs. Too drunk to play 
lyons 11 4:00-Fightin Irish vs. Snapper Prisby & the leather monkeys 4:45-The Voilaters vs. 4 hamburgers 5:30-Bill the eat's bricklayers vs. The cotton club 6:15-Scooter McCutty's Humdog Sandwich ... vs. We can't think of a good name 
Lyons 12 4:00-The Papillona Viruses vs. The kids from the gritty streets 4:45-Flipper & the undertows II vs. Playing with madness 5:30-4 Drunks & a man called Zeller vs. Duggan & 4 Guys who've slept with ... 6:15-Meisterbrick vs. Nasty Norm & the grashing gnomes from hell 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Squash Tournament sign-ups will be Thursday, April 13, at 5 p.m. in the NVA office for the tourney to be held Friday, April 14 through Sunday, April 16. -The Ob­server 
A squash clinic featuring Pedro Galatas, the former No. 2 junior in Spain, will be held today at 4:30 p.m. on Joyce ACC courts 1 and 2. -The Observer 
Jordan Jammer captains' meeting will be held tonight at 7 p.m. at the Joyce ACC basketball courts. Bring team name and $3 if unpaid. Five teams are still needed. Call 277-1180 for information. -The Observer 
lnterhall wrestling matches will be held tonight at 7 p.m., in the Joyce ACC. Participants must attend a weigh­in Monday, April 10, at 6 p.m., in the NVA office. -The Observer 
Mud Volleyball workers and scorekeepers are needed. Call Ed Brooks at x3271 for more information. 
-The Observer 
An informational meeting for anyone interested in joining the windsurfing club on Wednesday, April 12, at 7 p.m., in Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. 1990 of­ficers will be chosen. call Carter Thomas at 289-1233 for more information. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club will hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. -The Observer 
Open soccer tournament entry deadline is Wednesday, April12. Play begins Saturday, April15. Turn in rosters with $10 fee at the NVA office. -The Observer 
Off-campus lacrosse has a game today at 9 p.m. on Cartier Field. call Bill at 287-5758 for more information. 
-The Observer 
The Bengal Bouts Banquet ·will be held for_ a,n boxers Wednesday, April19, at 5:30p.m., at St. Hedwig s Parish. Call Mike at x3386 for more information. -The 
Observer 
Mud Volleyball schedules have been posted in _the SUB Office on the second floor of LaFortune. The ftrst round of games will begin Friday, April 14. Any teams that have not paid should get its money to Ed Brooks, 213 Keenan, by Thursday, April 13. -The Observer 
• 
APARTHEID AWARENESS WEEK Aprill0-13 Prison Population--South Africa has the highest prison population in the world with 440 people jailed for every 100,000 of the population. The equivalent figure in the U.S. is 
189. 40% of the African prison population consists ofpeople who have violated pass laws, thus committing "crimes" that only Africans can commit. Why? Find out by seeing the film "Witness to Apartheid11 Monday, April 10 at 7pm in the esc, followed by a discussion with a fonner 11-year prisoner, Ezra S igwela who was finally freed largely by the efforts of the Notre Dame chapter of Amnesty International. 


Grad Students, Professors, Employees 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

Offers 
• 
Pool, Clubhouse • locked intercom entrances 

• 
Washer & dryer iii each apartment • flexible leases ( also -furnished executive suites ) 



!QUAl HOUSING

call for details -277-3731 
(J'I'OOTUNITY 


....,.


Golf teams brave bad weather over weekend 
The Observer I E.A. Weisenberger The Notre Dame men's golf team finished second at the Indianapolis Invitational this past weekend. The women did not fare as well, however, placing 14th out of 15 teams in Bloomington. 
Men place second in Indianapolis 
By DAVE McMAHON 
Sports Writer 
Pat Mohan shot a two-round 
total of 149 to lead the Irish 
men's golf team to a second­
place finish out of 12 teams at 
the Indianapolis Invitational 
over the weekend. 
After a poor performance 
last weekend in its opener at 
Purdue, Notre Dame 
rebounded at Eagle Creek Golf 
Course with a consistent effort, 
as the top four Irish golfers 
finished within five shots of 
each other. Despite poor wea­
ther for the second straight 
week, Mohan tied for second in 
medalist honors with his 72-77 
scores, while Doug Giorgio and 
Paul Nolta tied for fifth with 
150's. 
Irish assistant coach Joe Thomas had nothing but praise . for the team's performance. 
"They showed a lot, playing 
in such bitterly-cold weather," 
said Thomas. "We could have 
done better today, but our short 
game killed us. Overall, I was 
happy with our performance 
from tee to green." 
Ball State's Tony Soerries shot a 72-69 (141) to take the medalist title. Irish golfers Mike O'Connell (154), Pat Kusek (156), and Mike Crisanti 
(157) helped the team even its tournament record at 1-1. 
Columbus, Ohio, is the next stop on the Notre Dame schedule, as the powerful Buckeyes host the Kepler In­tercollegiate. 
•



Masters w1n lifts Faldo, Europeans 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga.--There was the green jacket of a Masters champion in the luggage Nick Faldo loaded into his car at the hotel Monday morning. 
It had been around his shoulders until the early mor­ning hours as Faldo basked in the aftermath of his playoff vic­tory over Scott Hoch. 
And it served as a prop when he was asked if the meaning of 
The Sullivan Principles, formed in 1976 as a voluntary 
f conduct for our firms operating in South Africa, were the basic justification for Notre Dame to continue its hold these companies. After ten years of this approach in 
1987, Leon Sullivan reversed his position, conceding that " pillars ofApartheid still remain, and blacks are still deni c human rights in their own country and are denied the ri vote." Why does Notre Dame continue to keep supporting these mpanies? What does it base this position on now? Come at the divestment panel discussion --April 11, 8:00 Cus uditorium. 

t 

his triumph had really dawned roll," the man from Surrey, on him. 
"Oh, yes," he said, paused and fingered the lapel of the jacket. He smiled, continued to caress the jacket and repeated: "Oh, yes." 
Before starting the two-hour drive through a steady rain to Hilton Head, S.C., and this week's Heritage Classic, Faldo considered some of the im­plications, both for himself and for European golf in general. 
"It proves we're still on a England said, a reference to the growing dominance of foreign players in world golf. 
His Masters victory marked the fifth time in the decade of the 1980s that a European player had won a green jacket. An American has not won the British Open in five years. The Europeans won the Ryder Cup competition against America's best the last two times the matches have been held, in 1985 and 1987. 
"We're slowly proving what we're made of," said Faldo, who won the 1987 British Open, lost. the 1988 U.S. Open in a playoff and now is the 1989 Masters winner. 
Feliz Cumpleanos Bernardo 
Te quiere mucho Mimi 

\Women fall 
.· 
"The world of international golf is very strong now," said Faldo, who holds membership in both the European and American tours. 
"Our tour (the European tour) has advanced tremen­dously. The standards definitely have been raised. 
''I honestly believe there are a half dozen men at the top of the game. I believe I am one of them." 
He ticked off the others: Seve Ballesteros of Spain, Greg Nor­man of Australia, Sandy Lyle of Scotland, Ian Woosnam of Wales and Curtis Strange, the only American on the list. 
way short in Bloomington 
By KEVIN KERNS 
Sports Writer 
The idea of a weekend of golf conjures up thoughts of sunny weather and rolling green fair­ways. 
If the Notre Dame women's golf team had similar visions for last weekend's Indiana In­vitational, it was in for a rude awakening. 
Snow, sleet and freezing rain drenched the Indiana Univer­sity Championship Golf Course in Bloomington. 
"It was awful, just awful," surmised Coach Tom Hanlon. Co-captain Melisssa Houk agreed. 
"It was horrible," she said. "With the cold, wind and rain, it made it almost impossible to play. It wasn't even like golf anymore.'' 
The poor conditions forced a cancellation of the first 18 scheduled holes on Saturday. The tournament originally was set for 36 holes on Saturday and 18 for Sunday. 
When play finally got under­way, the Irish dug themselves a hole out of which they would never be able to climb, ending the day 69 strokes off the pace set by Indiana. A Sunday total of 368 did little to lift the spirits of the Irish, who finished 14th in a field of 15. 
''You have to be disappointed anytime you shoot as high as we did," said Hanlon. "But these things happen." 
Freshman Kristine Lazar was the lone bright spot in a dismal Irish effort Saturday af­ternoon. Her score of 89 was adequate, considering the con­ditions. 
Lazar, however, was not pleased with her effort. 
"My scores (89, 93) are com­pletely unacceptable," Lazar said. "That's all I can say." 
Indiana captured the cham­pionship with a total of 620, 38 strokes ahead of second-place Northern Illinois. Debbie Lee of the Hoosiers earned individ­ual laurels with her score of 150. 
"We're disappointed," said Houk. "We knew we'd be facing quality opposition, but we were hoping to finish a little higher.'' 
After Friday's practice round, Hanlon felt optimistic about the tournament. 
"The girls were playing well," Hanlon said. "I really felt good about it." 
The Irish have a chance to right their ship this weekend at the Lady Buckeye Invitational in Columbus, Ohio. They're hoping Mother Nature will be kind to the Irish. 
Said sophmore Roberta Bryer, whose 88 on Sunday represented the team's top ef­fort for the tournament. 
"I think we'll be ready," Bryer said. "The weather should be better, so we'll have a more positive attitude going in." 
The Irish will challenge the 6,000-yard, par 71 Ohio State course in a 54-hole event Satur­day and Sunday, April 15 and 16. 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, April 11, 1989 



Fisher shakes 'interim' label 
Schembechler names former assistant his head coach 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich.-­

Finally, Steve Fisher is just 
plain coach. 
Named as Michigan's in­terim coach two days before the NCAA tournament, Fisher took the Wolverines to their
r 
first national championship, 
I· and he was officially rewarded on Monday when the "interim" was removed from his title. Fisher, an assistant for seven years, took over on March 15 after Bill Frieder accepted the job at Arizona State and was told he could not finish out the season with Michigan. The Wolverines responded with six victories, including an 80-79 overtime victory over Seton Hall in the title game at Seattle. 
"The dream lives on," Fis­t her, 44, said at a joint news con­\I ference with Bo Schembechler, ' the football coach who doubles 
as athletic director. "I said before, 'Pinch me on Tuesday,' but I didn't want to wake up. I still don't want to wake up. 
"This defies description in words. There's no finer job in America." 
There was overwhelming support for Fisher, both locally and by the national media, after the polite, red-faced man led a talented group of under­achievers through six tourna­ment games. But Schem-
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Quarterbacks Timm Rosenbach of Washing­ton State and Steve Walsh of Miami will bypass the April 23 NFL draft, %etting up a supple­mental draft in early summer with some real spring-like drama. 
Rosenbach's agent, Gary 

l -
Wichard, said Monday that his 
' 
client, who led the nation in passing last season, will definitely enter the supplemen­tal draft, to be held at the end of June or early in July. 
Wichard said he made the decision so that the fourth-year junior would be treated--and paid--like a No. 1 draft choice "rather than a guy taken sixth or seventh, depending on how things fall." 
Walsh, acting on the advice of Marvin Demoff, the Los Angeles-based agent who is ''a family attorney and advisor" let the 5 p.m. EDT deadline go by without filing. Earlier, Demoff had indicated he make that decision. 
Monday held more interest 
************* $1200 Scholarship Available ************** in return for eight weeks of service to the poor & needy in cities across the 
U.S. A few choice positions left. 
For more information stop into the Center for Social Concerns or cal1...239-7867 

bechler wouldn't be stampeded. 
"I wasn't going to be pressed into an emotional decision," Schembechler said. "I wanted to be cool, calculated, and study it from every angle. It always came up Steve Fisher." 
Schembechler, a beacon of integrity in big time college sports, wanted most of all to be sure rumors of improprieties in Frieder's program either were untrue or didn't involve Fisher. 
For example, a high school player whom Frieder had recruited for Michigan recently began driving a new Mustang. The prospect had to convince Schembechler his mother bought the car. 
"I think Steve is a forceful disciplinarian even though he doesn't give you that impres­sion," Schembechler said. "Let's face it, tomorrow the honeymoon is over and it'll really be over when the season starts next fall. Coaching's a tough business, I can tell you that." 
Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski and Evansville co­ach Jim Crews were believed to be other candidates in whom Michigan was interested, but they were never interviewed. 
"The more I thought about it, the more I was convinced we had the right guy right here," Schembechler said. "He was thrown into the breech and showed a lot of moxie." 
Terms weren't disclosed, but Fisher is expected to receive a one-year contract, which is standard for all Michigan coaches. Fisher probably will be paid about $85,000 a year, but an expected shoe contract worth about $100,000 plus money from basketball camps and radio shows could push Fis­her's income to an estimated $450,000 annually. 
"His contract is the same as mine, which is forever," Schembechler quipped. "And his pay will be commensurate with an institution of this kind. He'll be adequately paid, so he doesn't have to be worried about that." 
Fisher, who said he lost 15 pounds off an already-lean frame during the tournament and his subsequent wait, said he would retain Mike Boyd as his No. 1 assistant and move Brian Dutcher up to a full-time position. 
Boyd and Dutcher were brought into the program by Frieder, who angered Schem­bechler with the timing of his defection. 
Fisher was an assistant at Western Michigan• for three seasons before coming to Mic­higan. He began his coaching 
career  at  Rich  East  High  
School  in  Park  Forest, Ill.,  
where  he  coached  for  eight  
years.  


Walsh, Rosenbach wait it out 
than usual because of a chain of events set off by the depar­ture of Miami coach Jimmy Johnson for the Dallas Cow­boys. Johnson was replaced at Miami by Washington State co­ach Dennis Erickson, prompt­ing Rosenbach to pass up his senior year and eventually leading Walsh to make a similar decision. 
Rosenbach and Walsh, both of whom have a year of college eligibility left, almost ·surely would have been first-round choices had they entered the regular draft. They are rated behind only Troy Aikman of UCLA, who is expected to be the first pick--either by the Cowboys or by another team if Dallas decides to trade the top choice. 
Instead, both quarterbacks will go into the supplemental draft--in which the choices are weighted in tiers according to last year's standings. 
Under that system, the order of the first nine choices will be determined by picks from a drum in which there are 28 slips for 3-13 Dallas; 27 for 4-12 Green Bay and so on down to 20 for 6-10 Miami. The second nine are then determined by the same process, starting with 19 slips for 7-9 Phoenix down to 12 for 10-6 New Orleans with the third tier becoming the 10 playoff teams. 
A team making a pick in the first round of the supplemental draft loses its pick in the first round the next year. 
Demoff said the decision by Walsh, who will graduate this summer and needs no waiver from the NFL if he does, is based on NCAA rules that do not allow a team to work out players while they still have college eligibility left. 
"There's no desire on his part to manipulate the system," Demoff said. "Miami's semes­ter ends at the end of May and he can work out then and get a feel as to who might be inter­ested in him. Right now, there's a lack of information about him among NFL teams." 
.---------------------,
FREE SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR I STUDENTS WHO NEED 1 
MONEY FOR COLLEGE I 
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of I Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. 
I 

• We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, 
I

fellowships. grants, and loans. representing over $10 billion in private sector funding. 
I 

• Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic 
I

interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. 
I

• 
There's money available for students who have been newspaper car­

riers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ...etc. 

• 
Results GUARANTEED. 



I 

CALL For A Free Brochure • 




-J I I 

ANYTIME (800} 346-6401 -= I 
L-------------------~-~ 

AP Photo Michigan celebrated the national basketball championship under former assistant coach Steve Fisher this year, and will try to defend it next year under the same man. Fisher was named head coach Monday by Athletic Director Bo Schembechler. 
Sports promotions 
Special to The Observer 
The Sports Department of The Observer has an­nounced staff promotions for the 1989-90 year. 
Steve Megargee, a junior English major from Tal­lahassee, Fla., has been promoted to Associate Sports Editor. He previously served as Assistant Sports Editor. 
Greg Guffey, a sophomore Arts & Letters major from New Castle, Ind., will serve as an Assistant Sports Editor. Guffey was promoted from the position of Sports copy editor. 
Frank Pastor also has been promoted to Assistant Sports Editor. A sophomore American Studies major from Pittsburgh, Pastor for­merly served as a copy editor in the Sports Depart­ment. 
Molly Mahoney, a junior American Studies major from South Bend, will con­tinue in the position of Sports copy editor, as will Scott Brutocao, a sophomore from 
Claremont, Calif.,  who  is  
majoring  in  American  
Studies.  

Bob Mitchell, a sophomore Englislv'ALP A major from Bryn Mawr, Penn., has been promoted to Sports copy editor. 

Attention Engineers Engineers' Week Events 
Tuesday 
11: 30-2pm Ice Cream Social 4pm Egg Drop Contest Events will be held in EG Student Center 9pm Beacon Bowling 
Wednesday AM Special Dining Hall Lunch 

CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 

3:30p.m. ND Women's softball vs Saint Mary's College. 
6:30 p.m. International Dinner sponsored by the Ladies of Notre Dame and· Saint Mary's, Center for Continuing Educatiion. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents "Juniors: How to Fill Out the Profile Form," by Paul Reynolds, Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
7 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "Pickpocket," An­nenberg Auditorium. 
9 p.m. Comminication and Theatre film "Saturday Night and Sunday Morning," Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
2 p.m. Friends of the Library colloquium "The Problems and Opportunities of University Publishing,'' Keynote Address by James Langford, Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge. . 
4:15 p.m. Accountancy lecture "The Implications of the In­ternational Debt Burden for the Economic Development of African Economies," Room 120 Hayes-Healy. 
4:30 p.m. BBMB lecture "Studies on Cell Adhesion, I & II," by Saul Roseman of John Hopkins University, Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
7 p.m. SUB panel discussion in conjunction with Donald Wood's visit to raise issues about the liberation struggle in South Africa, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's
French Bread Pizza Stir Fry Bar Burrito Bar Fish Egg Foo Young Bean Burrito Baked Scrod Deli Bar 
ACROSS 28 Summers, in Sedan
1 Graze 29 City in NE Italy

6 C.P.A. 33Afeast­
10 Biblical famine

preposition 34 Sea mammal
14 "Ship of the desert" 35 U.S.S.R head 1917-24
15 Blackthorn 36 Mamba or
16 Poet's "at no rumba

time" 38 Bishopric
17 Idolize 40Saw
18 Christmas carol. with "The" 41 Berlin's "I 20 Xylophone's Poured My Heart -Song"
cousin 22 Stephen, in 42 Ended France 
44 Grandfather of 23 A-one Saul 25 Rely upon 45 Duped 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
=+-::+.-:-+.:-t 
--L....L....~ 

46 Sale condition 47 Kind of sandwich 48 Missing person in Buchanan's 
term 51 Guarantees 54 Profession of 

Nightingale 58 Area Lou Gehrig 
covered 60 Daisy's cousin 61 Wings on an avis 62 "The-of 
Texas ... " 63-nova 
(samba music) 64 Flag maker 65 W.W llcraft 66 Espies 
DOWN 
1 Rip-off 
2 "Mary­little ..." 
3 Love, in Le6n 4 Confirm 5 Varnish resin 6 -lightning 

(very swift) 7 Caesar's 151 8 Kitchen utensils 9 Seed 
integument 
1 0 Superf I uous 11 Light gas 

-
47 European mint 49 Confederate 
soldier 50 Slatterns 51 At a distance 52 Farm structure 53 Sp. titles 55 "Wishing ~!II 
make­56 Aerie 57 Mardi­59 Tennis unit 

COMICS 
BLOOM COUNTY 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Of:..D! DP...O.' 0\JT£R SP,.._C£ ~l\El'\S JUS\ LJ\~OED 1~ 11-\E B.ACK. ~f>..RO .' 
\ 

BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-. 
BILL WATTERSON 

01-\, REA.Ll'1. SJRi at UK~ DID -rn£'i S\!'KE '{()IJ'R£ 5:) WH~J 00 11\rf 8\G BP...KED SA"( W~~T BIJSi, '{0\l CAN 
LOOK UK.E? ~T~\0£5 W\11\ 11\E'{ Wi\t-\1? JIJS\ GN£. Th£ LASER. G~'S. 1'101'\t.~ 10 ME, I ~INK W£. A~tl t'l..l Tf\~ S\-IOIJLD 00 II O~R 10 '"~~\ -rul'( SA'(. lim:E:f:\:--. 1\-\EM. 
"So ... you wanna sell our pencils, do you?" 



AIJartheid 
Tues April 11 Divestment Panel Discussion featuring Prof. Peter Walshe, Dean David Link, Prof. James Carberry 7pm Library Aud 


Awareness 
Wed April12 film: "Cry Freedom" 
8 & 10:15pm Cushing 



Week 
Thurs April 13 discussion with Mr. Donald Woods author of "Biko", "Asking for Trouble" ­basis for film Cry Freedom 8pm Cushing 
l$2 tickets LaFortune Inf(J Desk 
12 Four or six follower 13 Wreath on a knight's helmet 19 Nominal 21 Scottish broth 24 Bony fish 25 "-our refuge ... ": Psalm46 26 Praying female figure 

27 African language group 30 Senseless 31 River in Mali 32 Juarez January 34 Like oceanic islands 37 Addles 39 State of depravity 43 Birthright loser 46 Analyzes 






Sports 
Tuesday, April 11 , 1989
page 16 

Swimmers use car to dunk, then get sunk in Bookstore 
By FRANK PASTOR senior Chris Petrillo, who con­much cause for celebration the Assistant Sports Editor tributed one of T.D.'s 11 points remainder of the game. The in the contest. Lollipop Boys hit only one more 
Five members of the Notre The sixth day of Bookstore shot in the game, losing 21-2. Dame men's swimming team, action was marked by ex­Murph Can't Dunk did them collectively known as T.D.'s tremes, as three games were one better less than two hours Blown Rap, put the word "fun"­decided by 22-20 scores while later by falling 21-1 to We are back into the game of basket­two others were more easily Better Than a Sharp Stick in ball Monday when they dunked decided. the Eye. Not only couldn't from the hood of a car in a Dan Quayle, Digger Phelps Murph dunk, he failed to score losing effort as Bookstore Bas­and Three Other Guys used in the game as Roy Gersten­ketball XVIII moved into its their influence to squeeze by berg hit the sole hoop for second week. the Doobie Brothers 22-20. Tom Murph Can't Dunk. 
Junior Tom Penn drove D'Andrea paced Dan Quayle Spectators at Stepan six "Honkey Lips," a 1976 Buick with eight buckets in the game. must have thought it was LeSabre painted green for St. B.V. Deviants edged Dar­raining basketballs Monday as Patrick's Day, onto the win's Failure by an identical 367 shots were put up in the first Bookstore court and team cap­22-20 score behind Mike two games played on that tain Dave "T.D." Thoman took Pointer's 10 hoops, and Not a court. Ebert and the Rockers off from the hood to dunk the Chance in Hell beat the odds by first knocked off Dan Quayle, ball. The spectacle briefly defeating Liquid Lunch, 22-20. Jane Fonda and Three Others stopped the momentum of The Members of the crowd threw in a game that took one hour Cavanaugh Fun Warriors and lollipops onto the court when and 17 minutes to complete. Rob, who breezed to an easy The Lollipop Boys scored their "We rebounded more than 21-11 first-round victory. first basket of the game against they did, especially on the de­
Bookstore Basketball opened its second week of play Monday afternoon "We can't play any sport The Mephistophelian fensive end," said Chris Ebert, as the first round of the tournament continued. that's out of the water," said Meatuses, but they didn't have see BOOKSTORE I page 11 
Irish win two against Big Ten foes, 
I 

up women's tennis record to 14-4 
By BARB MORAN Northwestern,'' said the coach. confidence and concentration Sports Writer "I knew it was going to be a back and came back to win. I'm tough match but I knew we had very pleased with her perfor­The Notre Dame women's an edge on them. We were the mance." 
tennis team improved its better team going into the Also putting in a strongrecord to 14-4 this past weekend match. singles effort against Michigan with a decisive 6-3 victory State was Kim Pacella. Pacella against Ohio State and a tough "I knew we had to be playing lost her first set 3-6, then won 5-4 win over Michigan State. at our very best at the top to her second set 7-6, pulling out 


The Irish started their Big win, and that's just what we a tough 7-2 tiebreaker. Al­Ten romp Friday at home did--I'm very pleased with our though she lost a rough 6-4 deci­against Ohio State. Notre players' performance.'' sion in the third set, Gelfman Dame's CeCe Cahill thrashed The Irish continued the win­praised Pacella highly for her 
Kelly Story, Ohio State's No. 1 ning over their Big Ten compe­gutsy play. singles player, by scores of 6-2, tition Sunday with a close vic­6-0. Cahill also combined with tory against Michigan State. "That was one of the most 
doubles partner Tracy Barton The Irish, again led by the outstanding matches I've ever 
to take a strong 6-3, 6-4 victory victorious Cahill-Barton duo, seen Kim play," said Gelfman. over Ohio State's top-seeded led 2-1 after doubles competi­"I'm very proud of her perfor­doubles team. tion. 
mance.'' "Our doubles team played In singles play, the lead Gelfman was pleased with very well," said Irish coach 

jumped back and forth between both wins and her team's over­i', Mi~hele Gelfman. "They the two rival schools until the all performance. 
I: II played to win and iorCcd the ~core stood tied at 4-4. Singles "I'm very excited about both other team to make a lot of er­player Kathy Br~d~h~w victories," said Gelfman. 
r; . rors." stepped in to take the deciding "These wins show that Gi.ii' pre"
Gelfman, somewhat ap­victory, winning in three sets gram has really turned around­prehensive going into the by scores of 1-6, 6-3, 6-4. -we're beginning to consistently
match, was pleased with her "I couldn't have written a beat teams which we lost to team's performance and the script for the match and had it before. 
f'.·· 
final outcome of the contest. come out better," said coach "It took a total team effort

li ,I' "I was a little worried about Gelfman. "Kathy was up 5-2 in to win both of these matches. The Notre Dame women's tennis team downed a pair of Big Ten foes, I Ohio State because they had the third set but then started to They really wanted to win and Michigan State and Ohio State, and extended its winning streak to 10 just come off a big win over waver a little. But she got her that's just what they did." matches over the weekend. 


ND sweeps Xavier in 2nd straight pair 
Special to The Observer nings to improve his record to 3-1. Xavier scored its only run 
Joe Binkiewicz hit three in the seventh and final inningdoubles and drove in three runs off freshman reliever Tom as the N lltre Dame baseball Gulka. team swept Midwest Collegiate Six Notre Dame players had Conference foe Xavier 12-1, 6-3 at least two hits as Notre Dame Monday in a doubleheader at pounded out a game total of 14 
Cincinnati, Ohio. hits. The Irish, who have won Binkiewicz, a freshman first 
eight of their last nine games, baseman, batted 2-of-3 with two 
improved their record to 20-6. doubles and three RBI. Junior 
Notre Dame has an 8-0 record outfielder Dan Peltier went 2­
in the MCC and a 4-0 record in of-3 with two doubles and two the MCC East Division. Xavier, RBI. which has lost 16 consecutive Notre Dame scored five runs games, dropped to 0-4 in the to take control of the error­East Division and 6-22 overall. filled second game. The Irish 


The Observer I Trey Raymond 
In the first game, freshman committed four errors in the
Freshman first baseman Joe Binkiewicz (right) led the Notre Dame baseball team to another doubleheader 
pitcher Brian Conway allowed 
sweep of Xavier with three doubles and three RBI. 
just four hits in six shutout in-see SWEEP I page 10 

.' 
_.:..._~ ---­



-~---------------~---....,..-.-----~·-..=--~__,.__..____~------~~~-----...----~--E:"'O---·-----­

, :!• -~ ...._.-..,,..;-.-:;w,._·-..-.•~=-1"--o~~·._.. .•..._...__...._~~...-..-Dil_.._.•••••._l....__--·--~----=·=--..t--...._........._...II··IIMII-~1 
----------------·.......•.1':..~11"S~-~·-1ft·II/0 ..... ~-· ...·~~--,.·1.:o.I'Y"!.-J~-.-.-· ···~' 



areers 
Brought to you by Career and Placement Services 
Career and Placement Services: The Accent On Service 
The Career and Placement 
Services office is probably best 
known to students as the place 
where job interviews are 
conducted. According to Kitty 
Arnold, Career and Placement 
Services director, the office is 
much more than that. "We're in 
the career development business 
as well as the job placement 
business. By that I mean that we 
try to help students decide on as 
well as implement their career 
goals." 
Assisting students determine 
which career to pursue requires a 
variety of approaches. 
Individuals are not alike in how 
they learn new material so it is 
not surprising that they arrive at 
decisions differently also. 
Therefore, Career and Placement 
Services offers both group and 
individual assistance to career 
planning. 
'The centerpiece of our 
service is individual career 
counseling," says Paul Reynolds, 
associate director. "Last year we 
counseled over 1,500 students. 
That number has increased 
dramatically in the past few 
years, indicating to me that 
individualized assistance is 
needed and that students have 
heard that we offer valuable 
advice on career concerns." 
There are others who, for 
whatever reason, are reluctant to 
see a counselor. Meeting the 
needs of those students demands 
alternative types of assistance, 
such as written materials. "This 
insert in The Observer is just one 
of the ways in which we try to 
communicate career issues to 
students. The Observer is one of 
the few vehicles which can 
potentially reach all students," 
according to assistant director Jeff 
Rice. 
Other types of written materials include the fall and spring issues of the Placement Manual, a booklet outlining the recruiting schedule and job search techniques; the Weekly Bulletin, an up-to-the-minute listing of organizations interviewing on campus; and the Weekly Events, a calendar of · career activities for the coming week. These publications are used primarily by seniors but are available to any interested student. 
Also open to any student is the Career Library across from the reception area in the Career and Placement Services office. The materials and books cover topics including how to choose a career, resume-writing, interviewing, and references on a wide variety of careers and employers. Internship materials and information on working in the not-for-profit sector are also maintained. 
During the 1988-89 school year, the Career and Placement Services office sponsored over 90 group programs and workshops. "We often bring in outside speakers representing various career areas. Our five Placement Nights, which kick off the campus interviewing season, feature speakers from three types of career options for the students in that particular area," reports assistant director Marilyn Bury. 
Another service which supports on-campus interviewing is the opportunity for students to practice their interviewing skills with experienced recruiters. "In addition to our professional staff, we invite corporate representatives to campus to videotape mock interviews with students. After an abbreviated interview, the recruiter offers suggestions and encouragement," according to Rice. "Both students and recruiters seem to find it a very rewarding and informative experience." 
The campus interviews are a very important part of the services of the office. 'This year approximately 475 employers will visit the campus. We anticipate that over 10,000 interviews will be held in our office. It is no wonder that students tend to think that campus recruiting is the only service we provide," Arnold commente11. The interviewing process itself is looked upon as an opportunity for personal growth by Brian Rafferty, regional personnel manager for Pfizer. "Interviewing is a 'real time ' experience. Students take the skills developed through hours of Study and practice and bring them all to bear in a 30 minute exchange with a verifiable goal -a job -in the balance. It's one of the best learning experiences college provides!" 
Career and Placement Services also provides supportive services for students looking ahead to graduate or professional school. Last year a special program on graduate study was developed in conjunction with the Office of Advanced Studies. It will be offered again this month. Interested students should mark their calendars for April 17 when a panel of faculty will discuss application techniques and graduate admissions procedures. Another cooperative effort was a program which brought a panel of medical school admissions 
----------------------·--·-----·--, 
I 
I

'lbe staff of Career and Placement Services looks forward to 
I

meeting you at some time during your college experience. 1 
·• Kitty Arnold • Carolyn Moser 
• 
Nancy Benjamin • Paul Reynolds 

• 
Marilyn Bury • Jeff Rice 

• 
Nancy Frazier • Phyllis Sandfort 

• 
Nancy Graham • Louise Schmaltz 

• 
Lori Hosford • Katie Wesolowski 

• 
Dell Lucas 



representatives to campus to help students prepare for medical school interviews. The Career and Placement Services office has also collaborated with the Pre-Law Society for many years to sponsor the Law Caravan, an opportunity for students to talk informally with representatives of numerous law schools. 
Disseminating information about summer jobs and internships is another part of the assistance offered by Career and Placement Services. About 60 firms and organizations actually conduct interviews on campus for summer employment, according to Nancy Graham, coordinator of the summer employment program. In addition to campus interviews, a summer job fair was held on campus for the first time this January. Bob Steinmetz, operations controller of Dow Corning, stated: "We thought that the Notre Dame Summer Job Fair was a very successful event. It helped us increase our visibility on campus because of the large number of students who took part, and we were very happy to have ultimately hired two Notre Dame students as 
interns for the coming summer." 
The Career and Placement Services office is located in the southeast corner of the lower level of the Hesburgh Library and is open Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Concluded career counselor Dell Lucas, "We are genuinely interested in providing the support that students need to facilitate their career development. It is our hope that even more will take advantage of what we have to offer." 
Q!<.~reer ano lEI larentent § eruir~s 
Dear Notre Dame Students, 
If you are like I was in college, you probably have a vague idea of what you hope to do with your life. You are also probably plagued with so rriany academic pressures that taking time away from more immediate deadlines seems foolish. I can certainly identify with the stress of completing lab reports, writing papers, reading mountains of material, and preparing for tests. Counseling with students who have just "pulled an all-nighter:" reminds me how happy Iam to be on this side of the desk! 
Although I am sympathetic to the pressures of academic life, I still strongly advocate devoting time to career exploration. My experience has shown me that it is crucial for most students to have a general sense of career direction. They are much more comfortable with their academic course of study if they can articulate some of the potential career avenues associated with that discipline. They express the belief that their kn.owledge of the. relationship between their academic and extracurricular pursuits and broad career areas ts a strong motivator to high achievement. 
There are some who would argue that college is not the time to consider vocational goals. They contend that trying to find a career niche too early in one's college experience defeats (or at the very least dilutes) the true purpose of higher education. To the extent that students attempt to plan their careers minutely, avoid challenging courses to maintain a higher grade point average, and restrict their studies to those which are career-specific, I agree. It d.oes not follow, however, that developing a love of learning for its own sake is mutually exclusive to career exploration. 
I believe that the work of Career and Placement Services supports the educational mission of the University. Our role is to provide you with information and resources on a wide range of careers and help you gain a thorough understanding of yourself with which to evaluate the suitability of the career areas under consideration. 
'The initiative to take action on your own behalf must come from you, however. We are not going to seek you out and force help on you. I urge you to reward yourself with increased self-understanding and career knowledge and invite you to participate in the many programs and services offered by our office. 
Sincerely yours, 

Kitty Arnold Director 



I
I 


Top: The workshops and employer presentations sponsored by Career and Placement Services offer opportunities for students to meet company representatives. Bottom: Dan Nye (right) of the NCNB Texas National Bank shares a light moment with senior Matt Azer during a campus interview. 

pages 2-3 Career and Placement Services specic: 
Employment for the International Student: Myth vs. Reality 
One of the hottest issues in the career planning and placement field within the last two years is the employment of international students. In November of 1986, President Reagan signed the Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA). The law requires all United States employers to have documentation showing that their employees have a legal right to work in this country. This legislation's intent is to control illegal immigration by sanctioning employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens. 
What, then, are the employment opportunities in the United States for an international student with an F-1 or j-1 visa (student visas)? According to Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placement Services, "some employers with international divisions look for students who want to work in their native countries. We're seeing that the chances of finding employment in the United States is greater for a student with a graduate degree in a technical field. Employers are more willing to assist these candidates in obtaining H-1 visas (distinguished merit and ability)." 
In order to hire a foreign national without a working visa, a company must agree to assist in the process of obtaining one. First a company assesses its hiring needs, and as the market appears today, there is more need for technical graduates. This is not to say that it is impossible for students of other educational backgrounds to obtain employment, but it is more difficult. 
Students who wish to gain experience in their fields through an internship may apply for a practical training visa. Practical training consists of a total of 12 months work experience prior to graduation and 12 months beyond graduation. 
"Employers in foreign countries appreciate the experience a student obtains in the United States. The information about American business techniques is valuable to them," says Art Grubert, director of International Student Affairs at Notre Dame. Grubert is in the position to authorize practical training. Currently, there are 32 international students from Notre 
"Students must have knowledge of the legalities, the viewpoint of employers, and the job market . . . " 
Dame working with this status. 
The difficulty in obtaining practical training can be found when looking at the long term benefits for a company. It is an investment on the part of the corporation and, unless a working visa can be obtained to extend employment, the company is not always willing to offer practical training experience. While conducting a job search, one must understand the employer's perspective and the realities of the job market. Some students have attempted to gain practical training, however, and have succeeded. 
Employers are not required to interview candidates without the legal right to work in the United States. Rochelle Kaplan, general counsel for the College Placement Council, points out that international students seeking practical training are not protected under !RCA's anti­discrimination provisions regarding citizenship status. "If an employer does not wish to interview a student who is not eligible or who does not possess authorization to work full­time in the United States, he or she is not required to do so." 
'lberefore, because it is the choice of the employer whether an interview will be granted, the student is asked to contact the employer personally to make arrangements to meet during a campus visit. 
The reality of the situation is that it is possible to obtain employment in the United States. It is difficult, however, and the student must have knowledge of the legalities, the viewpoint of employers, and the job market before beginning a job search. Members of the professional staff of Career and Placement Services provide counseling concerning job search and the use of a number of resources in the Career Library. With the proper knowledge and guidance, an international student will further understand the myths and realities of employment opportunities in the United States. 
Maintaining Perspective 
All people will experience moments of self-doubt throughout their lives. As a college student, you will undoubtedly encounter some self-doubt as graduation day draws near and you face the prospects of a "life beyond Notre Dame." In planning for a career, you will occasionally wonder whether you are pursuing the best possible outlet for your talents. If so, remember that practically every successful person has faced obstacles. 
Consider these facts: 
Both Atari and Hewlett-Packard turned down the Apple microcomputer. 
Henry Ford's first two automobile companies went bankrupt. 
Dr. Seuss' first children's book was rejected by 23 publishers. 
The Coca-Cola Company sold only 400 Cokes during its first year of operations. 
The Notre Dame football team lost four of its first five games with Lou Holtz as coach. 
A Career In Advertising: More The 
"I want to go into advertising or public relations because of the fast pace and glamour of the business." This is a quote heard from many students, according to Marilyn Bury, assistant director of Career and Placement Services. What makes advertising so glamorous? 'The advertising industry does offer an exciting and diverse opportunity for a creative individual," affirms Bury. "But it's important for students to also understand the tremendous challenges of this career." 
Within an advertising agency such as the Leo Burnett Company, the goal of the organization is to create superior advertising, to act as consultants for the clients, and to provide direct marketing for new products. The making of a commercial provides a look at the structure of Leo Burnett. 
In the development of a commercial, the path begins with the client services department which puts together a strategy. It then goes to the creative department 
Where Are You In Your Career Planning? 
This checklist is designed to help you find where you may be off target in your career planning. The way you answer the following questions may yield some important clues. Answer each question "Yes" or "No", then tally your "Yes" answers at the end of the checklist. If you wish to discuss your results with a Career and Placement Services counselor, please make an appointment. 
I. What You Know About Yourself 
1. 
Can you clearly state your career goals? 

2. 
Can you explain why you chose your major? 

3. 
Can you name at least five work skills or abilities you have? 

4. 
Have you clearly defined your geographic preferences and limitations? 

5. 
Have you determined the salary range you will consider? 


II. What You Know About Employers 
6. 
Can you name at least three field~ of employment which you might find satisfying? 

7. 
Can you name at least ten different organizations that might hire a person with your background and interests? 

8. 
Can you name at least four sources of information that could help you discover potential employers in a particular geographic area? 

9. 
Have you talked to at least three people who are employed in your fields of interest with the purpose of learning more about what they do? 


Ill. Your Career Search Strategies 
10. Have you prepared a resume with which you are satisfied? 
11 . Have you asked anyone for feedback on your resume? 
12. 
Do you know the questions employers are likely to ask you in an interview? 

13. 
Have you used any of the following methods to prepare for an interview: 


a. 
videotaped mock interview with a counselor in the placement office? 

b. 
writing out answers to common interview questions? 


Add up your Total score 12·14: "yes" answers:.___ 
On the right track. Keep up the good work! Total score 8·11 : Close. Why not discuss with a Career and Placement Services counselor? Total score 7 or below: 
where the executional ideas are developed. After agency approval the idea is presented tQ the client. If it's a "go" the legal department must approve the language, and production makes an estimate on cost which on the average is 
"Advertising is a different language. You must learn to deal with the fast pace, diversity and the unexpected." 
$200,000. The commercial is sent to an outside production company where actors are hired and filming is done. It will then appear on the television screen in your living room. 
While all this is happening, the media department is putting together a media plan. Entry level positions for those with 
undergraduate degrees are in  imagin  
media. Both the media and client  abilitie  
services positions begin here with  Candid  
buying and planning. This 12 -18  commt  
month period is spent learning  others,  
about Leo Burnett, the business of  charge.  
advertising, and how to think  
strategically. For those hired in  Lei  
media, the next step is a full-time  schools  
media buyer or planner, while those  talks at  
in client services progress to  Notre I  
assistant account executive in the  Notre I  
client services department.  from th  
achieve  
For people with MBA's and  here an  
other advanced degrees, who often  still ha~  
have more experience, the track  They w  
begins in client services as a client  
services associate. This also leads  In  
into an assistant account executive  such as  
position. From that point success  Agency  
depends on the individual.  Indiana  
County  
Robert Key, vice president /  service  
account supervisor for Leo Burnett  and sa],  
and a graduate of Notre Dame, visits  Cassidy  
campus to interview students.  Mary's  
When asked what it takes to be  account  
successful within Leo Burnett, he  some ol  
says: "We look for certain key  the job.  
attributes such as creativity,  languag  

Where Have All The En~ 
So you want to be an engineer? What does an engineer do, and what talents should a successful engineer possess? 
As far back as the Civil War era, the answers were easy. Engineers who built big things, like buildings and railroad bridges, were called civil engineers. Those who built smaller things, like guns and steam engines, were called mechanical engineers. While scientists were investigating the theoretical relationships that engineers needed to know, engineers were busy applying those concepts to build. 
In 1989, there are 1.6 million Americans who call themselves "engineers," and they are doing more than building. In fact, the only true "engineer" title remaining belongs to train-drivers, and there aren't many of them left. 
There is no hnger a strong bond of common interests, skills, or even working conditions that define what the technical engineer is, or what such people do for a living. Some work alone. Others work in small organizations where they are the only technically trained individual. Still others work as part of large teams in large organizations. 
According to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, in 1988 over one-half of all engineering jobs 
'II 
electronic equipment, machinery, intrigue aircraft and parts, scientific wanted instruments. chemicals, motor Fitzpatr vehicles, and primary metal mechan companies. Another one-third were "Eventu in non-manufacturing industries, decide primarily in architectural services, I would business and management mostd consulting services, a manu communications and utilities, and assistan construction. feel like 
learnin~ about e
"In order to avoid the 

manageconfusion, today's is that I engineering graduates from a I need to be prepared to Fib 
challen~
describe what their 

the dail:
specific degree really 

manage 
means to them." days lo< fluid dy track th 
Federal, state, and local machin1governments employed about crawlin~

175,000 engineers in 1988. In 

lookingaddition, about 40,000 persons held which nengineering faculty positions in 
raw cen
colleges and universities. 

you feelTo confuse things more, the other ti1
Dictionary of Occupational Titles lists 

colleagtover 500 individual titles for covereddifferent types of engineers. 
Graharr
So you still want to be an 

engineer? The "I realized after my first job speciali: interview in 1987 that companies various 
were located in manufacturing were less interested in why I chose exists. r
Definitely discuss with a Career and Placement Services counselor. 
industries -mostly in electrical and an engineeriRg major, and more undergt 
___________________________________________________..,.,__________________'"'' ·-·---­
~----------------------------.--.---~--~---------~~~--.-----~-.--------~--~----~~~----~~~--------------------------~-~I 
ces special advertising insert Tuesday, April 11,1989 
... 

te 
er an 
a 
1 is 
tes. It tudent 
taff of s 
~job 
·r of 
'{. 
ld lent rths 
Researching the United States job market is especially important for 1tes. international students. 
rhan Just Glamour 
imagination, problem solving abilities, and leadership skills. Candidates must have the ability to communicate well, to motivate others, to accept challenges and take charge." 
Leo Burnett is selective in the schools for which it recruits. Key talks about this relationship with Notre Dame. "We find people at Notre Dame and Leo Burnett are cut from the same cloth. We want achievers and performers. Students here are leaders -they're smart but still have their feet on the ground. They work hard and play hard." 
In comparison to a larger firm such as Leo Burnett, The Juhl Agency, located in Mishawaka, Indianapolis, and Westchester County in New York, is a full service advertising, public relations, and sales promotion agency. Kelly Cassidy, a 1985 graduate of Saint Mary's College and assistant account executive for Juhl, shares some of the excitement she finds on the job. "Advertising is a different language. You must learn to deal 
:ngineers Gone? 
intrigued with what I specifically wanted to do with it," says Kevin Fitzpatrick. a 1988 graduate in mechanical engineering. "Eventually, it was up to me to decide in which work environment I would find the job responsibilities most challenging and rewarding. As a manufacturing management assistant for General Mills, I often feel like I'm still in school. I'm learning something new every day about engineering and management. The biggest difference is that I'm learning from people, not from a book." 
Fitzpatrick finds himself challenged by the diversity within the daily tasks of his manufacturing management position. "I've spent days looking at heat transfer and fluid dynamic books in order to track the performance of a piece of machinery, and I've spent days crawling inside of a jet zone puffer looking for build-ups or blockages which may be causing scorched or raw cereal to be produced. At times you feel like a real engineer, and at other times you're laughing with colleagues because your body is covered with sticky Golden Grahams." 
The traditional route of specialization within any of the various engineering disciplines still exists. Many engineering undergraduates go on to graduate 
with the fast pace, diversity, and the 
unexpected." 
Another career option in the field of advertising is to work within the advertising/marketing department of a corporation, promoting only the products or services of that company. Prior to joining The Juhl Agency, Cassidy was a marketing manager for Utilimaster Corporation, a manufacturer of commercial vehicles. She comments on the differences of those experiences. "Within the marketing department of a corporation, we were only concerned with promoting our products. In an agency, however, we are working with more than one client, and therefore more than one product or service. It's a whole different ball game." 
When asked how she would describe the field of advertising, Cassidy responded, "Exciting, 
diverse, frustrating, and rewarding. It's challenging because it requires hard work and dedication. It can be difficult. But if you love it, it doesn't matter!" 
school to become more expert in 
chemical instrumentation, 
aeronautical materials, 
thermodynamics, and so forth. 
Another route, however, are the engineers like Fitzpatrick who are training to coordinate the specialists in large teams on large projects. The knowledge base is broader, but not uniformly deep. 
Obviously, it requires one personality type to work alone cramming thousands of transistors onto a chip of silicon, quite another to inspect 200-foot high bridge towers for stress, and still another to interact with colleagues on large design teams or with clients while on the road selling or consulting. 
The "engineer" title, though no longer a single entity, has been around a long, long time. In order to avoid the confusion, today's engineering graduates need to be prepared to describe what their specific degree really means to them. Says Fitzpatrick, "after nine months of job interviewing, it finally registered that the decision of where to work rested on my desire to be a manager of people and projects. I'm happy with my decision." 
As an engineering major, you will be happy too if you assess your own work style preferences and personal attributes before racking your brain over the Dictionary of Occupational Titles. Unless, of course, you want to drive a train. 
A Hint to Juniors: Pursue More Than One Option 
"I took four interviews on 
campus during the fall semester 
of my senior year. In November 
I sent about 10 resumes to 
corporations in the Chicago area. 
I had every intention of working 
for two or three years prior to 
enrolling in a full-time MBA 
program," states John Sheehy, a 
May 1988 marketing graduate 
and presently a first-year MBA 
student at the Krannert School of 
Management at Purdue 
University. 
Kevin McCarthy, a May 1988 electrical engineering graduate, asserts: "Going into my senior year, I felt that the best way for me to reach my long-term professional goals was to obtain my MBA immediately after graduation. I took the GMAT during the summer after my junior year, applied to five MBA programs, but also decided to take some interviews at Career and Placement Services." McCarthy is currently a test engineer with IBM in Rochester, Minnesota. 
Many students approach their senior year at Notre Dame with a single thought in mind regarding their plans after graduation: to accept an offer of employment, to enroll in a 
postgraduate degree program, or 
to unde'rtake a volunteer 
position. As can be seen from the 
two examples above, students 
often change their original plans. 
"Pursue more than one option," is a suggestion offered by Paul Reynolds, associate director of Career and Placement Services at Notre Dame. "Arts and Letters students frequently ask me if there are alternatives open to them other than attending graduate or law school after receiving their degrees. The answer, quite simply, is yes." 
More employers each year, whether they interview at the placement office or not, are impressed with the skills gained from a liberal arts education. As a result, organizations are very interested in considering many of these students for a wide variety of employment opportunities. 
Those students who believe they have made the decision by the end of their junior year to attend law school tell Reynolds that they will take the LSAT in October, apply to a number of law schools, and hope to be admitted to the school of their choice. 
"A few of these students return to my office two or three months prior to graduation. They have decided for any number of reasons not to attend law school and want to know when they can begin to take on-campus interviews," reports Reynolds. "Unfortunately, by this time in the academic year, 75 to 80 percent of the interviews have taken place." 
Robert Waddick, pre-law advisor and assistant dean in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, strongly encourages students, regardless of their major, not to put all of their eggs in one basket. "In your sophomore and junior years, when assessing yourself-your values, interests, abilities, strengths and weaknesses -you should begin to gain an awareness about the options which might best match your professional goals and remain open-minded when considering a number of these choices," suggests Waddick. Zeroing in or targeting one or two of these alternatives should then follow. 
A sage bit of advice for all students. 
A Preview For Juniors 
Your final year at Notre Dame will be filled with many significant experiences. It will also be a year when you'll make important decisions concerning your future. The Career and Placement Services office encourages full involvement on your part in facing these decisions. The events listed below, sponsored by Career and Placement Services, should be considered in your planning. When you return in late August, visit Career and Placement Services to obtain full details on these events. 

Jeff Rice , assistant director of Career and Placement Services, conducts a videotaped interview with Kendra Morrill, a senior American studies major. 









Nov

Sept Oct Dec 
Second interview workshops Sign-up orientations 
Registration for interviews Arts and Letters Career Day Resume workshops 
Interviewing workshops Mail campaign workshops 
Placement Nights MBA Panel Discussion Summer jobs and 
Videotaped mock interviews International Student internships registration 
Industry Day Orientation 
Networking workshop Law School Caravan 
Employer receptions On-campus interviews Counseling by appointment 
April
Jan 
MarFeb 

Interviewing workshops Videotaped mock interviews 
Government Career Day Graduate School Panel 

Mail campaign workshops Sign-up orientations 
Discussion 
Resume workshops Summer intern workshop 
Workshop: "Where Are You In Your Job Search?" 
Employer receptions 
On-campus interv1ews 
Counseling by appointment 
) 
• 

page 4 Career and Placement Services special advertising insert Tuesday, April11, 1989 
Searching for Jobs in the Nonprofit Sector 
Job search techniques for locating opportunities in the nonprofit sector closely parallel techniques used to find other types of employment. 
Perhaps a good place to start your search is in the Career and Placement Services library, where there are materials representing over 125 nonprofit organizations. A handy card file categorizes these materials by subject. Also, the Career Library contains books that offer further information on the nonprofit sector. 
Terry W. McAdam, in his book Gareers in the Nonprofit . Sector suggests other sources to identify nonprofit organizations. These include government agencies, yellow pages of 
"The nonprofit world is more than glamor­ous champagne receptions. It consists of demanding work in environments that need constant financial support." 
telephone directories, annual reports of organizations, and local chambers of commerce. 
McAdam emphasizes "knowing the territory you are about to explore." One of the most effective methods for obtaining general background information within any employment field is through informational (or exploratory) interviewing. By contacting and then meeting with nonprofit sector professionals, you gain first-hand knowledge of the field while meeting with key contact people at the same time. Dell Lucas, career counselor in the Career and Placement Services office, concurs: "I have found representatives of the nonprofit organizations." Lucas shares what he has learned from three nonprofit sector professionals. 
Ron Kramer, staff specialist in the federal government's Office of Personnel Management 
in Indianapolis, emphasizes that 
selection procedures for local 
government jobs are somewhat 
regimented. "Because we're 

looking for the best all-around 
candidates," says Kramer, "an 
applicant's academic major, for 
example, is not necessarily an 
exclusive consideration. As with 
the private sector, a cover letter 
and resume mailed to a specific 
agency will start the process-for 
obtaining an interview," says 
Kramer. But, students should 
expect a longer processing time 
than that experienced in the 
private sector. 

For a listing of federal government agencies and contact information, Kramer suggests referring to the United States Government Manual. Or, you can call (317) 226-7161 for current job information. 
John Shields, education coordinator for the Snite Museum of Art at Notre Dame, feels that finding a job in an art­related institution may be puzzling, but there are direct ways of seeking these nonprofit opportunities. Shields suggests obtaining an internship in a museum, historic house, or civic art commission. "An internship is the perfect opportunity to experience the real art world while making friends and professional contacts," states Shields. 
Although there are few high paying internships, it affords an opportunity to be personally involved in a variety of activities such as research, curatorial duties, or public relations. Shields stresses that "the nonprofit world is more than glamorous champagne receptions. It consists of demanding work in environments that need constant financial support." To become familiar with collections and exhibitions, Shields recommends that students visit 
art institutions and exhibits whenever possible. 

Kathleen Stiso Mullins, executive director of the Northern Indiana Historical Society, states that many job opportunities are concentrated in large museums with titles such as conservator, 

Employment in the United States can be divided into three parts, shown in the pie graph at left. 
It is important to know that the boundaries distinguishing the nonprofit sector from the government or private sectors are fuzzy at best. Some government jobs, for example, may not be nonprofit from an official regulatory point of view, yet are devoted to causes such as civil rights, environmental protection, etc. -~ 
Additional information on opportunities in the nonprofit sector can be obtained from the Career and Placement Services Career Library. 
Two examples of helpful resources available are: 
Careers in the Nonprofit Sector, 
by Terry W. McAdam. Discusses various strategies for obtaining employment in the nonprofit sector. 
The National Directory of Addresses and Telephone Numbers. 
This annual directory has a section on associations and foundations. 
SOME EXAMPLES 
of nonprofit organizations: 

• 
Common Cause 


• 
National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics 

• 
National Organization of Women 

• 
National Public Radio 

• 
Peace Corps 

• 
The Sierra Club 


• 
United Negro College Fund 

• 
United Way 



curator, educator, coordinator, preparator, and registrar. Mullins recommends two monthly publications for researching job openings in museums: Aviso, published by the American Association of Museums, and History News Dispatch, published by the American Association for State and Local History. 
Mullins affirms that "the procedures followed to locate employment with a museum are similar to those for exploring 
The Nonprofit Sector is a term describing the Internal Revenue Service's designation of organizations whose income is not used for the benefit or private gain of stockholders, directors, or any other persons with an interest in the company. A Nonprofit Organization has no private owners. Its business is conducted by salaried people. Any money that exceeds the operating expenses (which includes salaries) must be used for educational purposes or reinvested in the work of the organization. It cannot support partisan political causes or political candidates. 
employment opportunities in the private sector." These would include an effective resume and cover letter. 
Lucas reminds job seekers that "the resume's purpose is to get you in the door for an interview with someone who might have a job opening. When mailing or delivering your resume, keep the process organized." Lucas continues, "Develop a simple system to record name, title, telephone number, address and zip-code, type of contact you had with an employer, their response, and your follow-up action." 
The nonprofit sector can be an exciting option for students of all majors. The Career and Placement Services office can assist you with job search strategies, as well as finding information on a variety of opportunities in this growing sector. 

Peace -Corps and Notre Dame: A Perfect Match 
Notre Dame is one of the top producers of Peace Corps volunteers. Why is this? Notre Dame does not have a department of agriculture or a large student body when compared with state universities. Yet it had more graduates enter the Peace Corps last year than all but 10 universities in the country. 
Dan Smolka Area Manager --Chicago Peace Corps 
Over the past five years, an average of fifteen N6tre Dame graduates have entered the Peace Corps every year. Why do so many from Notre Dame choose to serve, and why are so many selected by the Peace Corps to perform overseas? 
John Goldrick, associate vice president for student affairs, has experienced the positive relationship between Notre Dame and the Peace Corps almost from its inception. "Many Notre Dame students share a conviction that they have talent they want to share," says Goldrick, a 1962 graduate of Notre Dame and, in 1963, a member of the sixth group of Peace Corps volunteers to serve in Thailand. 
Goldrick feels it is after a Peace Corps experience that volunteers realize the profound effect it may have on their careers and their future. "The breadth of 
~~·~· ··'"f ~ 

Jerry Pohlen, a 1986 Notre Dame graduate, serving in Benin, West Africa. 
international experience, the creativity they have exercised, and their ability to make something happen is what makes the Peace Corps experience such a plus with employers." 
Graduates with degrees in civil 
..engineering, mathematics, biology, chemistry, and other technical degrees are in great demand by developing countries. Those entering the Peace Corps frequently a large margin. Notre Dame students do extremely well in competing for these positions because of their experiences. Many have held positions of leadership in academic clubs or organizations on campus, or have been resident assistants in residence halls. These types of experiences are highly valued by the Peace Corps in considering candidates for "generalist" positions. 
Jerry Pohlen, a 1986 graduate, feels that the service concept at Notre Dame is what led him to the Peace Corps. "Had I not become involved with the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame, I may not have considered the idea of joining the Peace Corps." 
Pohlen graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering and accepted an assignment in Benin, West Africa. There he taught rural development extension workers the techniques of oresentation that would enable them to be educators in the design and promotion of fuel efficient mud stoves. 
The experiences graduates have gained at Notre Dame give them a strong chance for success in the challenging cross­cultural environment they will encounter in Peace Corps assignments. The Peace Corps wil1 continue to value Notre Dame graduates and hopes that they will continue to see the Peace Corps as an educational and highly rewarding employment opportunity. 
use their degree in positions of more far­reaching responsibilities than entry-level positions. in the United States. This degree­related experience, in turn, greatly enhances their marketability in the United States. 
Most Notre Dame graduates who enter the Peace Corps, however, have a liberal arts background -a background for which applicants outnumber programs by 




