
VOL. XXII, NO. 126 TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

An injured miner in Houthalen, Belguim, clenches his fists as he wants to attack a policeman, but a fellow protester restrains him during Monday's pitched battles which injured dozens. The strikers want to keep Belguim's last two mines going while management considers early closure. 
Japanese Prime Minister to resign 
Associated Press 
TOKYO-Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita announced Tuesday he will resign to take responsibility for a loss of public tr~st caused by a widen­ing political scandal, Chief Cabinet Secretary Keizo Obuchi said. 
Mter a Cabinet meeting, Takeshita told leaders of his Liberal Democratic Party he will step down, Obuchi said in a live television broadcast. 
Polls indicate the scandal and an unpopular sales tax, which went into effect April 1, have made Takeshita the most unpopular prime minister since World War II. 
"Prime Minister Takeshita announced that he would resign as soon as the budget is passed in order to clarify his responsi­bility for the public's distrust in politicians due to the Recruit question," Obuchi said. 
Parliament is expected to pass the budget by early May. 
Takeshita, 65, who became prime minister in November 1987, has denied wrongdoing but acknowledged receiving more than $1 million in what he called legal political dona­tions from the Recruit Co. News reports over the weekend said he also borrowed $381,700 from the information­publishing giant in 1987, return­ing the funds a few months later. 
At least, Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita has decided to resign as soon as Parliament 
see RESIGN I page 4 
Senate approves cabinet positions 
By JEFF SWANSON 
Staff Reporter 
The Student Senate approved the cabinet of Student Body President Matt Breslin and Vice President Dave Kinkopf Monday evening. 
Among the positions filled were positions in the legal de­partment and the executive council. Both of these are new departments. 
Megan Hines was named as the executive coordinator and Greg Volan was named as re­search department commis­sioner. Both positions are in the newly created legal depart­ment. 
Breslin said that the purpose of the legal department is to do research on issues affecting students and to report to the senate. 
The executive council for Na­tional Catholic Organization was set up to bring together students from American Cath­olic colleges and universities to discuss issues which are of common concern, Breslin said. He said that such issues might include academic freedom and co-residentiality. He said that he hopes that such a meeting could take place sometime next year at Notre Dame. 
In other business, district one Senator Chris Frigon reported that the senators were working on a plan to encourage the ad­ministration to extend library hours. Frigon said that he was told that the main problem with extending library hours was the difficulty in hiring proctors. 
The senators are also looking into organizing a shuttle to the Michiana Regional Airport at the beginning and end of breaks, said district four Senator Sigi Loya. 
The senate also approved the three members for the Hall Presidents' Council and Co­Chairwomen Diane Toohey and Megan Hanley. 


ND tuition to increase 9.6°/o 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Senior Staff Reporter 
According to a letter sent to all parents of Notre Dame undergraduates, tuition for the 1989-90 school year will increase by 9.6 percent to $11,315 and room, board and laundry will increase by 6.5 percent to $3,275. 
The letter, sent by Univer­sity President Father Ed­ward Malloy on April 17, said that tuition would in­crease by $990 and room, board and laundry by $200. 
"Compared to other private schools, it's a bar­gain," said Thomas Mason, vice president for Business Mfairs. "On an absolute basis, we're lower than 30 others," Mason said, point­ing out figures from tuition rankings of 35 "peer institu­tions" over the past seven years. 
The "peer institutions" 
surveyed include all Ivy 
League schools, Boston Col-


CO·ED HOUSING 
lege, Duke, Georgetown, 
Northwestern and roughly 
20 other private schools. 
According to the rankings, 
Notre Dame has been 
ranked either 29 or 30 out of 
35 schools in terms of tuition 
over the past seven years. 
Also, the University has 
been ranked dead last in 
terms of room and board 
Princeton ..... $13,380 Vale ................. 12,960 Chicago .......... 12,930 Harvard ........... 12,715 Northwestern.12,270 Duke ................ 11 ,950 Georgetown .... 11 ,900 Boston 


costs for the past seven years. 
In addition to the increase in undergraduate tuition, graduate tuition will rise 9.7 percent, to $11,195, Law School tuition will increase 
9.1 percent, to $11,905, and tuition for the MBA program will be raised 9.6 percent, to $11,295. 
"Parents and students might ask why tuition is in­creasing by 9.6 percent when inflation is increasing by ap­proximately 5.5 percent," said Mason. He went to cite four main reasons for the difference: 
• Faculty salaries. "We made a committment four or five years ago that the faculty should be in the first quartile (top 20 percent) of the American Association of University Professors," Mason said. He added that keeping the faculty in this quartile adds an extra 1.25 
see RISE I page 4 

Survey reveals majority of students favor coed housing 
By KELLEY TUTHILL and JOHN ZALLER Staff Reporters 
Editors note: This is the first of a three part series on co­educational housing. 
A random Observer tele­phone survey of 282 Notre Dame students showed that a majority of those surveyed are in favor of co-educational housing. 
78 percent of the students sur­veyed said they were in favor of coed housing, 17 percent were against and 5 percent were undecided. 
87 percent of the males sur­veyed were in favor of coed housing, as were 77 percent of the females. In total 155 males were called and 127 females. 
Students showed some con­cern about their dorm becom­ing coed, however, with 56 per­cent in favor, 36 percent against, and 8 percent un­decided. 
Most surveyed agreed that coed housing would improve relations between men and wo­·men at Notre Dame. 79 percent agreed, 16 percent disagreed · and 5 percent were undecided. In November of 1988 a report to the Board of Trustees on Co­residentiality had similar fin­dings. In their survey, 67 per­cent of the students surveyed were in favor of co-residential housing. In addition, 90 percent of the students felt that there was a need for improved rela­

-tions among Notre Dame males and females. 
The report listed specific concerns that the students sur­veyed mentioned. Some stu­dents, especially in the older dorms, were concerned about the tradition that their dorms had nurtured over the years. However, the report states that there was "overwhelming sup­port for this change, however, in some of the newer North quad dorms, particularly Siegfried, Knott, and Pasquerilla East and West." 
The report examined peer in­stitutions and how their cam­puses handled their housing. 
see COED I page 7 
:. _· ..:, .:.~~:.-,· :-··::.......: .: ·.··.. :·: ·. ··. -~-·.,.: .···.··.,~··,··· ·.. ···:·:.._,.. ~;~d~nt ~~~ey 
. . . ~ . . . .... . . . ~ .. . ,. . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. •..
~ 

Question 3: Would you want 
Question 2: 
Do you think co-ed yourdorm to go 
housing would co-ed? 
improved relations among NO malesundecided 

and females? 5% ecided 


The Observer I Mark Chapman 
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, April 25, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 

The new U.S. ambassador to Britain, Henry Catto, arrived Sunday promising to work on further strengthening the close ties between the two countries. "The American people cherish our nation's special relationship with the U.K.,". the Texas n_ative said after arriving at London's Heathrow Arrport, clutchmg a cream-colored Stetson. "I am honored to be a trustee of that valued partnership and promise to maintain and enhance it." 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

Three months ago The Who's Pete Townshend, inducting the Rolling Stones into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, took a swipe at the mercenary side of the Stones' upcoming reunion tour. "It won't be easy for the Stones the next time around, and if it wasn't for the vast sums of money they can make, they might not bother at all," Townshend jibed. " ... at least, Mick probably wouldn't. It's lucky for us fans that he has such expen­sive tastes." Now it's Mick Jagger's turn. Two generations after "My Generation," Townshend, Roger Daltrey and John Entwistle announced Monday they were reuniting for a 25th anniversary tour-their first since 1982-83's "Farewell Tour." The band also appeared in a one-shot reunion at Live Aid. Daltrey said they had decided against making an album to be released while they're touring. 
Hate your job? Love it? Part of the reason may be your genes, a study suggests. By studying identica! twins who grew up in different families, researchers found evidence that genes influence a worker's satisfaction with his job. That may be part of the reason some people seem happy no matter what they do, while others have trouble finding a satisfying job, said industrial psychologist Richard Arvey. The findings do not suggest that people who dislike their jobs are genetically doomed to unhap­piness at work. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

A honeymoon ended abruptly for an Indiana couple en route to Mexico. A jet on its way from Indianapolis to Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, made an unscheduled landing at the Little Rock airport Sunday morning, officials said. The couple, Gary and Michelle Orman of Franklin were escorted off the plane shortly after 10 a.m. and were later questioned by the FBI before they were released. No charges were lodged against the couple, who rented a car and were on their way back to Indiana Sunday night, an FBI spokesman said. The America~ Trans Air flight continued on its way to Mexico Sunday mornmg. 
The Clark County Council in New Albany has b~lked_ at paying more than $65,000 in court costs for a murder_ tnal with a tab that includes jurors' bowling lane fees, expensive meals, haircuts and a higher than usual daily stipend. The final bill for the trial of James Utley ultimately is expected to exceed $100,000, officials say. Utley, 20, of New Washington was sentenced last week to 170 years for two counts of murder and one of burglary in the February 1988 deaths of Karen Smith and her 3-year-old daughter Jacqueline, also of New Washington. Jurors, who were sequestered for nearly three weeks in Shelby County where the trial was moved because of extensive publicity, ate lobster and steak dinners, ran up lofty bar tabs and threw a $120 birthday party. One even charged a $59 haircut to the court. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 

Two new rectors for the 1989-90 school year have been announced. Father Steve Newton will be the rector of Sorin Hall. Newton is currently the director of the Shelter for the Home­less. Father Joseph Ross wi1l be the rector of Morrissey Hall. Ross currently serves as as5dstant rector of Fisher Hall. Both were ordained in April. 
WEATHER 
Cloudy and...rain? 

Mostly cloudy today, tonight and Wednesday with a 30 percent chance of thundershowers. Highs both days in the middle 70s. Lows tonight in the middle 50s. 

ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On April 25: e In 1859: Ground was broken for the Suez Canal. 
Dow Jones 
Industrial Average
e In 1980: The White House announced that an attempt to rescue •7.15 
Closed at 2402.31
the American hostages in Iran had failed, and that eight U.S. servicemen had died in the fiery collision of two S&P 500 +.92 to 308.69 aircraft. 
e In 1983: Soviet leader Yuri 
Currency exchange 

Andropov invited Samantha Smith to Mark +.0044 to 1.8522 OM/$ visit his country after receiving a 
Yen +0.05 to 131.51 ¥/$
letter from the Maine schoolgirl who had written about her fears of nuclear 
Poundf-.oo4to 1.7165$/£ 
war. e Ten Years Ago: Israeli 
Precious Metals 

and Egyptian representatives ex­changed documents ratifying their Gold f. $0.70 to $384.90 I oz. historic peace treaty at an American 
Silver+ 6.8¢ to $5.833 I oz.
surveillance station in the Sinai Desert, ending a 31-year state of war. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 
lnformat1on compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 



George, Dan, and Ron: A happy trio 
Yesterday marked President George Bush's lOOth day in office, but I'm sure all of you were so caught up in your celebration of the event 
'Dan didn't even that you didn't have time to reflect on the auspi­
get to attend the 

cious occasion. 
biggest funeral of

Not much can be said about George's first 100 days in the presidency and even less can the year, Hirohito's.' be said of his trusty sidekick Dan's reign as vice president so far. 
Chris Donnelly

Granted, in only 100 days George and Dan 
Editor-in-Chief

really couldn't do very much. It is too short a time to really get anything concrete accom­plished, but George has been unable even to set the tone for his presidency and he has failed on announced the nomination than accusations two of his biggest decisions so far. were flying and Tower's chances were looking
George has been working in Ron's shadow bleak. for eight years and he has not yet rid himself In the end, Tower was rejected by Congress of it. In his first few months, George has only and became the first cabinet nomination continued Ron's policies and has not made any rejected by Congress. Obviously, George had significant departures from what has been the either not anticipated such an in-depth investi­status quo for the past eight years. gation, or he had neglected to do his homework 
This is surprising coming from tlhe man who on his nomination's background. Sounds like spent the majority of his campaign pointing out the Dan Quayle fiasco to me. Won't he ever the differences between himself and Reagan. learn. Why, when he is finally on his own, does he Speaking of Danny Boy, what has he done so continue on the course set by Reagan? far? Quite honestly, less than George, which is 
Even more distressing than George's in­pretty hard to do. It's like dividing by zero. ability to take some initiative on policies of his Dan did't even get to attend the biggest fu­own, has been his failures in handling both the neral of the year, Hirohito's. The old pro,Alaskan oil spill and the Tower nomination. George, took the trip instead. Poor Dan. 
Less than a year ago, George was standing When asked about his first 100 days yester­in Boston Harbor proclaiming his love of the day, Dan replied that his biggest surprise was environment and chastising Dukakis for allow­how much he enjoyed foreign travel. Gee, in ing the harbor to go to pot. Everyone was just a few months Dan has gone from Indiana amazed that a Republican was adually con­boy to cosmopolitan jet-setter and he likes it. cerned with the environment. I'm glad he's our vice president and not some­
George must have forgotten how important one who would hate traveling because it would the environment was during the recent Alaskan keep him out of the action in Washington. We're oil spill. It took ten days for any action to be so lucky. taken by the executive branch, and in that time, All kidding aside, President Bush and Vice the oil spill had managed to eover more President Quayle have done very little in their coastline.around Alaska then the whole Atlantic first days in office, but this is not to say theycoastline. will never accomplish anything during their 
Mikey may have done little to stop the pollu­stay in office. The first 100 days is the tradi­tion of Boston Harbor but George did much less tional length by which a president is first mea­in stopping the pollution of the shores of our sured and judging on the past few months Bush biggest state. Actions do speak llouder than and Qualye still have a long way to go. words, don't they? Bush must begin to run the presidency his 
Bush's other debacle was his nomination of way, not the way Reagan did so before him. He John Tower for Secretary of D<efense. The must become his own man and begin to bring Tower nomination was met with unprecedented the country out of the Reagan era and into the resistance from Congress. No sooner had he Bush era. 
OF INTEREST 
The last CILA Dinner Rap will be today at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, LaFor­at South Dining Hall at 5 p.m. Father Dohar tune. will speak on choosing your vocation in life. 
Shakespeare film festival presents Ran, 
Kurosawa's King Lear, showing at 8 p.m. today The international festival video will be in the Engineering Auditorium. shown today at 7 p.m. in the ISO lounge, LaFor­tune Student Center. The tape is part of the Observer Of Interests and other public show performed last week at the Century Cen­service announcements may be submitted at ter's Bendix Theatre. The Observer main office on the third floor of 
LaFortune Student Center unti11 p.m. prior to Got the checkmarking blues? Then the date of publication. Of Interest announces come see Irish Accent perform Lone Star, a free, campus-wide events of general interest. comedy, followed by skits and improvisational Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local humor. Starts at 9:15p.m. today at Theodore's. lecturers. Campus announces other events of 
general interest, free or paid. The Observer 
reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­October break trip for juniors interested als and determine if and where announcements in going to Cancun, Mexico, should meet today will be published. 
Question: How ~do you reach over 
12,000 people daily? .· · Answer: Buy Ol>server ad space. Call 239-6900. 
Tuesday's Staff 
---Ih--. e-Obse---~ -~~r--&-=Y=.'-' ----Design Editor............................ Kathy Huston Design Assistant.................. Tricia Grohman Typesetters .................................... Tim Kiefer ......................................................... Chris Malin
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
News Editor ...................... Florentine Hoelker Copy Editor ............................... Missy Weber
(219) 239-/'471 
Sports Copy Editor ................ Scott Brutocao VIewpoint Layout ...................... Laura Manzi Accent Copy Editor ............... Paige Smoron Accent Designer....................... Paul lndeglia Typists........................................... Will Zamer
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
.................................................... Diane Bradley
during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
NO Day Editor ............... Margaret McCloskey 
University of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Maris College_ Subscriptions may be pur­
SMC Day Editor.................. Rozel Gaitmatan chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
Ads Designers .............................. Val Poletto The Observer is a member of The Associated Press_ All reproduction rights ...................................................... Mindy Breen are reserved ................................................ Tammy Martinez 

AP Photo
Overthrown 
Bullfighter assistant Fernando Martin flies into the air, as he is gored during a bullfight in Zaragoza, Spain, on Sunday. Martin was taken to the hospital in serious condition. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Psyc­hiatrists are up in arms about a new law allowing the military to train its psychologists to prescribe powerful drugs for depression and mental illness. 
It's the newest battlefield for a long-running dispute over who is qualified to write prescriptions. Psychiatrists, who have medical degrees, say their qualifications are indis­pensable. But psychologists, who don't have M.D.'s, suggest money is really at the heart of efforts to keep them out. 
Currently, no state permits psychologists to prescribe psychotropic drugs, which range from mild tranquilizers to anti-psychotic medications that can affect the cardiovas­cular motor systems. 
The new provision on mili­tary psychologists, pushed by Sen. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii, was included in a House-Senate conference report on the fiscal year 1989 appropriation for the Defense Department. Congress approved the measure Sept. 30, 1988, and it was signed by then­President Reagan the next day. 
"Given the importance of ad­dressing 'battle fatigue,' the conferees agree that the depar­tment should establish a demonstration pilot training program under which military psychologists may be trained 
JORDAN 

New & U$ed Cers & Trucks 
FORD 
Ellt. 687 
IoYOlA 
VOLVO 

Largest Ford Inventory #1 Selling Ford Dealer in Country For further information, call Elizabeth 
* This is in addHion to m 
and authorized to issue appro­priate psychotropic medica­tions under certain circum­stances," according to a legislative report accompany­ing the provision. 
Courtney Welton, an Army spokesman, said the service "is considering" the issue, in­cluding training procedures, but he did not know when such a program might be begun. 
Inouye's efforts on behalf of psychologists have been spurred by his administrative assistant, Patrick DeLeon, a trained psychologist and mem­ber of the board of the Ameri­can Psychological Association. 
DeLeon, in a written presentation last December, said it is "absurd, to put it mild­ly," to "proclaim that one needs to go to medical school and take all of their courses" in order to write prescriptions for psychotropic drugs. 
In a telephone interview, DeLeon said the Defense De­partment "seems a perfect place for this expansion" of psychologists' authority to prescribe drugs because of its training facilities and a high in­cidence of mental health prob­lems in the military. 
That's not how the medical community sees it. 
"To attempt to provide mili­tary psychologists with prescribing privileges without accredited medical education 
EUZABETH C. HOWL 
and post-graduate clinical residence training... trivializes medical diagnosis and judgment," said Dr. Mel­vin Shabshin, medical director of the American Psychiatric Association. 
Dr. Donald Bennett, director of the drug division at the American Medical Associa­tion, said simply, "We think it is inappropriate for psyc­hologists to prescribe psyc­hoactive drugs." 
K-Mart bomb victim is 'cheerful' 
Chinese students begin boycott 
Associated Press 
BEIJING-Students at most Beijing colleges exuberantly began a class boycott Monday to press for sweeping demo­cratic reforms, and they tried through speeches and posters to enlist workers in the cause. 
Authorities took no open steps to interfere, but sources said more than 10,000 soldiers from outlying counties moved into Beijing over the weekend in preparation for an eventual crackdown. 
The sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the troops had been used in the past to quash civil unrest. Some student leaders said they feared imminent arrest. 
The exact number of partici­pants in the boycott was not known, but students at a dozen schools with total enrollment of more than 50,000 said virtually all their classmates were strik­ing. 
The boycott was the largest in 40 years of communist rule, even though there were no reports of students joining in other cities as the student ac­tivists hoped. 
"Now is the time for an· stu­dents in Beijing and nationwide to united to fight for democracy!" a student speaker at Qinghua University yelled from a banner-strewn dormitory balcony to about 1,500 wildly cheering listeners. He ·proclaimed the balcony a "free speech platform" and in­vited orators with all views. 
Students from several schools marched around campus and on nearby streets, gave speeches on street cor­ners and plastered copies of the first edition of their own news­paper on lampposts and trees to publicize their demands for press freedom, an end to offi­cial privileges and corruption, and respect for human rights. 
The boycott marks a new phase in the campaign after a week in which the students, mourning the death of former reformist party chief Hu Yaobang, tried to confront the leadership directly. They marched repeatedly to central Beijing's Tiananmen Square and tried to storm Communist Party headquarters. 
Top officials, who have begun market-style economic reforms but insist China is not ready for democracy, refused to meet with them. 
Student leaders stressed Monday they wanted their protest to be peaceful and le­gal, .and that they were not seeking to overthrow the gov­ernment or party. 
However, many students said they want Premier Li Peng to resign, along with other party chief. 
The Western diplomat, who spoke privately, said Tues­day's meeting might focus on political reform and plans for the 2,250-seat parliament, whose first meeting is sched­uled for May 25. It is to elect a president as well as a full-time legislature. 
By SARA MARLEY 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The parents of Erin Bower, the 5-year-old injured in last week's explosion in an In­dianapolis K-Mart, are both from South Bend. 
Erin's father Kevin Bower and her mother Maureen Crowe Bower both graduated from Adams High School in South Bend. 
Her grandfather, Frederick Crowe, graduated from Notre Dame in 1949. He is a partner with Crowe, Chizek and Co. in South Bend, according to Alumni Office records. 
Thomas Crowe, Erin's uncle, graduated from the University in 1988. 
The Office of Campus Mini­stry said Frederick and Rosemary Crowe, grandparents of Erin and her younger sister, have been ac­tive in Campus Ministry for the past several years, offering the use of their home on Lake Mic­higan for student retreats. 
Erin's left hand was am­putated after it was severely damaged in the April 17 explo­sion. Her left eye was also damaged when a bomb con­cealed in a toothpaste con­tainer exploded after she picked it up from a shelf in the northside store. 
A hospital spokesman said Monday that the girl will prob­ably not be released for at least another week. 
David Richards, spokesman for Methodist Hospital in In· dianapolis, said "This past weekend she was cheerful. She 
Happy 23rd Birthday Angelo! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Steph, Popi, Nick, Mary, Geetz, Manoli, Dolly, and Mitzie. 
went to the playroom and played. Her grandparents and parents visited with her on Sun­day." 
Meanwhile, federal and local officials continued their inves­tigation into the bombing. 
Investigators still were trying to identify two men seen leaving the store suspiciously moments after the bombing. 
"We're still following up the 300 to 400 phone calls mention­ing names or incidents," said Lt. Joie Davis with the Marion County Sheriff's Department. 
The federal Bureau of Alco­hol, Tobacco and Firearms planned to bring in six out-of­state investigators this week, bringing the total number of detectives working full time on the case to 20. 
Also, fragments from the bomb are being analyzed at a federal forensic laboratory in Rockville, Md. 
Rewards totalling more than $35,000 have been offered for in­formation leading to the arrest and conviction of a suspect. The Associated Press contrib­uted to this story. 
liiiii 

The Observer
page 4 

AP Photo
Checking out the damage 
Ralph Irvin, a power worker at Ford Motor Co.'s Rouge Complex, looks over some of the damage caused by an explosion in an underground utility service tunnel early Monday morning at the complex in Dearborn, Mich. Workers are still missing after the explosion. 
Bush joins in mourning for fallen crewmen of USS Iowa 
Associated Press 
NORFOLK, Va.-Thousands of grieving friends and rela­tives of the fallen 47 crewmen from the battleship USS Iowa gathered quietly Monday and heard President Bush praise their loved ones as "brothers in eternity." 
"We join today in mourning for the 47 who perished, and in fact, for the 11 who survived," the president told a packed memorial service at Norfolk Naval Air Station. "They all were, in the words of a poet, 'the men behind the guns.' 
"They came from Hidalgo, Texas; Cleveland, Ohio; Tampa, Florida; Costa Mesa, California. They came to the Navy as strangers, served the Navy as shipmates and friends, and left the Navy as brothers in eternity. In the finest Navy tradition, they served proudly on a great battleship, the USS Iowa." 
The president, a World War II navy pilot, said he was proud to recommission the Iowa in 1984 and said it had earned'll battle stars in two wars. 
But with the still-

unexplained fire and explosion 
last Wednesday in the battles­
hip's No.2 gun turret, he said, 
"Fate has written a sorrowful 
chapter in the history of this 
great ship." 
Victims' relatives and 

hundreds of sailors and officers in dress blues were among the 6,000 people crowded into a hangar for the service. A bou­quet of red roses was placed in front of the podium; behind were an American flag and the 

PREGNANT 
MOTHERS: 
PLWE DON'T SMOKE! 
+AMERICAN CAHC£R SOCIETY' 

battleship's banners. Outside, another 2,000 people listened to the service on loudspeakers. 
The service came a day after the World War II-era battleship eased into its home port, its gun barrels scorched and its 1,500 crewmen at the rails in white uniforms and black armbands in memory of their dead ship­mates. 
Capt. Fred Moosally, com­mander of the Iowa, told the crow of mourners that he remembered the men of turret two. 
"I remember their faces as they toiled at their guns, sweat­ing an honest sweat that comes from young men dedicated to a great cause," he said. 
"I remember as they talked among themselves, looking so much like sailors of the past, sharing the exuberance of the times and the dreams of the fu­ture," he said. 
"They were the life, the spirit and the soul of our ship.... They made the ultimate sacrifice for us... The men of Turret Two will be part of the spirit of the Iowa forever.'' 
Bush recounted seeing the Iowa off the coast of the Philip­pines as a naval aviator in World War II, and the great sense of confidence the big ship lent to the fleet. · Addressing the children of the victims, he said: "You must never forget that your fa­ther was America's pride." 
At the end of the service, while the Navy Hymn was played, President and Bush greeted and consoled the families of the lost men. After the 45-minute service, 
families attended a private reception with Moosally. The Navy said 45 victims' families attended the service. 
At a press briefing following the reception, Moosally praised the hundreds of men who fought the fire for their courage. 
"God gave birth to 500 heroes," the captain said. "Fire on a ship is the most ter­rifying fear. . . you have nowhere to run. 
"Our extensive training paid off," he said. "Besides the firefighting crews, we had cooks, engineers, deck seamen, Marines all fighting to save the ship." 
Moosally said the blast oc­curred just as he was turning to Vice Adm. Jerome Johnson, commander of the 2nd Fleet, to tell him to watch the No. 2 tur­ret because it contained his best crew. 
"This was my best turret," Moosally said. He said the tur­ret's senior chief, Chief Gun­ner's Mate Reginald Owen Ziegler of Port Gibson, N.Y.," was the most meticulous of men. He was my No.1 chief of the 84 chiefs aboard. 
"Nobody in that turret did anything unless they were qualified,'' Moosally said. 
Tuesday, April 25, 1989 

Rise 
continued from page 1 
percent to the 5.5 percent base. 
• 
Student computing. "A year ago we made an an­nouncement that the Univer­sity was committing $27 millioh over the next five years to com­puting," Mason said. "It's a long process, but tuition is in­creasing next year by two per­cent for just computing." This two percent raises the increase to 8.25 perc.ent, he said. 

• 
Foreign Study Programs. "We had a problem with such things as the dollar exchange and the cost of doing business in Tokyo and London," Mason said. "We had to add another half of a percent because of that." 

• 
Enhancements. "We had to add about another three­quarters of a percent for every­thing else in the place, what we call 'enhancements,"' said Mason. 


In the past, according to Mason, enhancements have been used to hire another pro­fessor when one department has had an overload or when extra professors were needed 
Tuition on the Rise 
Notre Dame once again raises its price $1 
'84-'85 '85-'86 '86-'87 '87-'88 '88-'89 '89-'90 
after the College of Business Administration opened up classes to students in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters. "A lot of it also has to do with govern­ment regulations-EPA-type regulations that the University has to comply with," said Mason. 
"When you add all of these factors up, it comes out to about 9.5 percent, which ex­plains the difference from the 
5.5 percent inflation rate," Mason said. 
Mason attributed the 6.5 per­cent increase in room and board costs to an effort to im­prove the buildings on campus. 
"We have had a program for six or seven years to spend $2 million a year to renovate the dormitories, but now we want to start on a program of remodeling academic build­ings," Mason said. 
Mason said that Malloy in­tentionally sent out the notice early to let students know of the price increase before they left for summer. He said Mal­loy's "philosophy is to get the information out as soon as pos­sible, even though the Board of Trustees won't approve the in­crease until it meets on May 5." 

-Tuition Increase 1989-90: 9.6% c==J Room/Board/Laundry increase: 6.5% Overall Increase 1989 -90: 8.9% 
The Observer 1Laura Stanton 

Resign 
continued from page 1 
passes the budget for fiscal 1989, the mass circulation Mainichi Shimbun newspaper and the Japan Broadcasting Corp. reported Tuesday. 
The reports said Takeshita planned to make the announce­ment after a Cabinet meeting later Tuesday. 
Takeshita has chosen to resign because of low support ratings in opinion polls due to 
$1.00 off for ND/SMC students (with ID) 
a widening political scandal and an unpopular new sales tax, the reports said. 
Passage of the budget for fis­cal 1989, which began April 1, has been blocked by an opposi­tion boycott of deliberations in Parliament, but is expected to come late this month or soon after several national holidays end early in May. 
The reports said Takeshita, who became prime minist~r in November 1987, has also decided to cancel a trip to five southeast Asian nations. 
Kindergarten paddlings
Quayle addresses AP 
under investigation for
before second trip abroad 
Associated Press trip is to address these con­which will take him and his 
bruising of 2 children 
cerns head on ...," Quayle wife, Marilyn, to Indonesia, Associated Press 18 years and is continuingCHICAGO-Vice President said. "The United States is Singapore and Thailand as well her job at the school, accor­Dan Quayle, embarking on a focusing on the region as never as Australia, is to show that the TERRE HAUTE, Ind.­ding to her attorney, Eric 12-day trip to Australia and before." United States intends "to play The Vigo County prosecu­Abel. 
Southeast Asia, vowed Monday He said he intends to remind an important role in the tor's office is investigating "Parents for 18 years have . 
to address "head-on . . . con­the Asian allies "that the cur­Pacific." 
police reports that two stu­loved her," Abel said. 
cerns that the United States is rent wave of 'declinist' thought In a question-and-answer dents at a Baptist church "She's been a very good a nation in decline." in the United States is hardly session with the AP group, school were bruised when a teacher and one would ex­Before leaving the United a new phenomenon." Quayle said one of the things kindergarten teacher pect that to continue.
States on his second trip abroad Elaborating, the vice presi­he's most enjoyed about his paddled them, an official "I would think this matter since taking office, Quayle ad­dent said, "Books predicting first 100 days in office is his in­said Monday. is being blown out of propor­dressed the annual meeting of America's imminent fall from volvement in foreign policy. 
The boys, ages 5 and 6, tion," he said. The Associated Press. world leadership have made 
have been removed from Abel declined to discussHe told the newspaper pub­the best-seller list and prophets The vice president, who Freedom Baptist Academy, details in the case. He saidlishers his trip to Asia was de­of American decline have be­visited Central and South authorities said. Monday he had advised both signed to underscore the U.S. come virtual academic America soon after he was in­Jim Walker, chief deputy Wright and school officials commitment to the Pacific rim celebrities. augurated, said most of his 
prosecutor, said the office is not to comment.and gain ''firsthand "All of this naturally arouses trips as senator had been back 
reviewing the police reports 
familiarity" with the area. a good deal of apprehension home to Indiana. 
to determine whether bat­The Vigo County Sheriff's Moreover, he said some among our friends and allies in From Chicago, Quayle was 
tery charges should be filed. Department became in­American and Asian observers Asia." flying to Los Angeles for a 30­
He would not say what volved in the case after the wonder if the United States "is minute meeting with former prompted the paddlings or mothers took their sons to 
really a great nation in He did not identify any President Reagan before discuss details of the case·. Union Hospital, which decline," with high budget and "declinists" by name. leaving for Australia. 
"We can't talk about mat­notified the county Child trade deficits a sign of malaise. Periodically, he said, waves Also on the agenda in Los An­
ters under investigation," Protective Service$, said Those observers ask them­of pessimism have swept the geles were a speech to the 
Walker said Monday. sheriff's Detective Dennis 
selves, "Can we (the United United States. Yet, he added, Samoan community and two The paddlings took place Eisman. 
States) still be relied on to play such national introspection is fundraising events, a reception 
on April 18, according to · According to police a leadership role in the healthy because "It's usually a for the Ronald Reagan Library 
police reports. The kinder­rf!ports, Darla Smith said Pacific? and, if not, who else sign of renewal, not of decline." Foundation and a dinner at 
garten teacher involved, her 6-year-old son was is there to replace us? Quayle said the overall pur­which Reagan was to receive 
Joann Wright, has taught for spanked with a paddle.
''An important purpose of my pose of his whirlwind trip, an award. 
Bush claiims progress made during first 100 days 
Associated Press with Congress on the federal to Australia and Asia, also said the extra mile and do what we based budget agreement that 
budget and Contra aid. he had an opportunity to work can." he said would reduce the deficit 
CHICAGO-President Bush At the same timE!, he said closely with the president Chicago was a brief stop and while leaving his no-tax pledge 
on Monday pronounced himself defense and foreign policy every day "to see how he form­a long day for both Quayle and intact. 
"pleased with the progress reviews, environmental legis­ulates his policies." the president. Bush started in He urged the House to follow 
we've made" in 100 days in of­lation and a program to deal The Bush-Quayle team took Norfolk, Va., where he atten­the Senate's lead in enacting 
fice and said he will soon make with homelessness "are all on office on Jan. 20 and marks 100 ded a ceremony marking the his legislation to bail out the 
key arms control and foreign the near horizon." days on Saturday. deaths of 47 sailors killed in a savings and loan industry and 
policy decisions that will chart Bush spoke at the luncheon a gun turret explosion aboard the noted he had recommended 
a course for the future. short while after Vice Presi­Before reciting his own USS Iowa last week. From stronger ethics legislation. 
"In three short months we've dent Dan Quayle told The As­report card, Bush pledged to Chicago he was flying to Bis­He also cited his administra­
made a good start coming to sociated Press annual meeting "follow every intelligence lead marck, N.D., and then on to tion's war on drugs in the Dis­
grips with issues demanding that the biggest surprise of his in the effort to win freedom for California. trict of Columbia and his deci­
urgent attention and decisive first 100 days in office is the Terry Anderson." The AP's "We made a good start in sion to ban the import of 
action," he told newspaper enjoyment he receives from chief Middle East correspon­these first three months and certain semiautomatic weap­
publishers attending The foreign travel. The publishers dent has been held hostage there's more to come," the ons as achievements in his first 
Associated Press annual who attended the AP functions since disappearing io Beirut president told the AP luncheon. three months in office. 
luncheon. . were also in town for the annual more than four years ago. The On his list of accomplish­He also mentioned an initia­
He ticked off his savings and meetings of the American president said he was not able ments, he touted the agree­tive to deal with the problem 
loan legislation, ethics Newspaper Publishers Associ­to provide any good news on ment with Congress to provide of Third World debt and his an­
proposals, the beginning of a ation. Anderson's prospects for non-lethal aid to the Contra nouncement last week of fresh 
war on drugs and agreements Quayle, setting out on a trip freedom, but said, "We will go rebels as well as the broad-help for Poland. 

MUSr LIQUIDArE ENriRE SrOCK! 
MEN'S • WOMEN'S • CHILDREN'S 
Dress Shoes 
FROMssss 
9 West • Calico • Florshiem Bellini • Fan Fares • Freeman Nunn Bush • Georgio Brutini Buster Brown • Nickelodian WOMEN'S SUMMER $599 
SNAKESKIN $~ 999 SHOES FROM 
SHOES FR~ I MUCH MORE! 
Athletic Shoes 
NIKE • REEBOK • AVIA 
REEBOK~Ro~1995 
~eo%orr 
INCLUDING NIKE AIR CROSS TRAINERS & REEBOK ENERGY RETURN SYSTEMS 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. Take a lilesav1ng Red Cross CPR course.+American Red Cross !!!  
And FULLY FURNISHED EXECUTIVE SUITES ELEGANT & SPACIQUS 1, 2 and 3 bedroom apartments Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame Campus 1671 Riverside Dr. @ CALL 233-2212 ~  


Prices! 
To' fine tune you car. To .fine tune your skills. 
To do the job right, you need the right tools. 
Trte most effective tool for fine ttLning your skills will1Je available at up to 16% below the already rock bottom student price. Don't leave school this year without the advantage you ·will need this sum­mjer and in years to come, the ability to make your work stand out. 
Come test drive an Apple McLcintosh™ today. 
For more information, pleasE~ contact: Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Computer/Math Building l~oom 25 
8:00AM-5:00PM 239-?477 
® 

The Power to Be Your Best™ 


Supreme Court lets controversial chemical, EPA case diie in court 
Associated Press The court will hear appeals 
by state and county officials 
WASHINGTON-The Su­and school district taxpayers preme Court on Monday that U.S. District Judge Russell refused to intervene in the con­Clark acted improperly in dou­troversy over Alar, rejecting bling school property taxes and attempts to revive a lawsuit by imposing an income tax sur­Ralph Nader and others aimed charge. at banning use of the chemical The city's schools had been on apples. , segregated under Missouri law 
The suit, which the justices until 1954. In the ensuing three let die without comment, had decades, the percentage of sought to force the Environ­blacks students in the system mental Protection Agency to climbed from 22.5 to 67.7 per­immediately ban Alar, used cent. primarily to enhance apples' Clark ruled in 1987 that the color, ripening and shelf life. school facilities had "literally
Critics of the chemical say it rotted," ordered them poses a health hazard, partic­upgraded and imposed the tax ularly to children. Makers of hikes. District voters had apple juices and sauces say rejected higher taxes six times their tests show only traces of from 1970 to 1983. Alar in only a tiny fraction of In the Alar case, some their products. . studies show the chemical-also 
In another matter, the court called daminozide-can cause agreed to decide whether a cancer in test animals. federal judge has the authority The EPA has said that it in­to order higher property taxes tends to ban Alar, made by Uni­to help pay for racially royal Chemical Co., but that desegregating public schools in such action could be years Kansas City, Mo. The tax hike away. is designed to raise hundreds The EPA on Jan. 6, 1987, of millions of dollars to im­rejected a plea by environmen­prove decaying, talists and others, saying it predominantly black city lacked sufficient evidence to schools. order Alar off the market. 
SECURITY BEAT 

Basketball computing 
The Observer I Eric Bailey Paul Froning stands next to the computer that IBM donated to the cause of the Bookstore Basketball Tournament on Monday afternoon by the bookstore court. 
Wounded Soviet protestors ask for chemical antidote 
Associated Press since the demonstration in Ordzhonikidze, a poet and 
Tbilisi, capital of the southern museum director, said half of 
TBILISI, U.S.S.R.-Geor­republic. those still hospitalized were gians hospitalized with Several dozen of the approx­children from a contaminated damage to their central ner­imately 120 people still hospi­school next to the demonstra­vous systems asked the govern­talized signed a letter contain­tion site who became ill days ment Monday for an antidote ing the appeal to President after the clash. to whatever chemical soldiers Mikhail Gorbachev. Dr. Vakhtang Bochurishvili, used when dispersing a pro­Nodar Notadze, a literary who teaches at Tbilisi Medical independence demonstration. scholar and one of 40 members School, said Monday, "It is a 
Foreign Ministry spokesmen of a commission investigating crime that the military still will in Moscow have denied accusa­the attack on the protesters, not tell us what substances tions by Georgian activists that said Georgian representatives were used." troopers used chemical weap­would take the plea to a He was interviewed at Hospi­ons in the confrontation April meeting of the Communist tal No.2 of Health Ministry De­9, but the Georgian Communist Party Central Committee that partment No. 4, where most 
Party chief confirmed Monday begins Tuesday in Moscow. victims are being treated. The some of the 20 deaths were Nino Djavakhishvili, also on hospital usually is reserved for caused by gas. the commission, said at least the Georgian elite. 
The leader, Givi Gum­700 people were injured. Iza Bochurishvili said the armybaridze, spoke to some of the Ordzhonikidze, a third com­and Interior Ministry soldiers the first foreign correspon­mission member, said 600 of who broke up the protest "were 
dents allowed into Georgia them were poisoned. like Nazi troops, the SS." 
of gender stereotypes, an in­Walsh, Lyons, Badin, Sorin, creased feeling of security in Carroll, Holy Cross and the residents and a decrease in Cavanaugh's rectors said that vandalism." their dorms would not be 
Coed 
continued from page 1 
Rectors were also evaluated suitable to a coed set up. According to the report, of the during this report. Fifteen of 26 The final reccomendation 26 institutions interviewed, all rectors responded to the ques­begins stating, "Taking into ac­offered the option of coed tionnaire. Ten said that co­count the nature of the Univer­housing. Most changed to coed residential housing should be sity, the input from peer insti­housing as student demand in­offered, four said no and one tutions, the attitude of the creased. was ambiguous. "Of those who Rectors on campus and the 
The schools interviewed in­felt a tension exists between the opinion of the Student Body, cluded Boston College, Holy sexes, half thought coed we, as the investigating com­Cross College (Mass.), Mar­housing would alleviate this mittee, conclude that Notre quette, Georgetown and others. tension." Dame should implement co­The other schools said that According to the report, the residential housing." negative aspects of coed rectors of Siegfried, Farley, housing were problems con­Zahm, and Knott said that they The recommendation came verting bathroom facilities and thought their dorms would be in four parts: parental opposition. Positive conducive to a coed set up while • Parietals and the other rules aspects included "fostering a Pangborn, Fisher, Howard and stated in DuLac should be more realistic attitude toward Breen-Phillips's rectors felt strictly enforced. life after college, better cross­that with renovation their • This project should begin on sex friendships, the dissolution dorms could be coresidential. an experimental basis with the 

conversion of 4-6 dormitories. Due to the physical structure
LOOK OUT WORLD! 
of these dorms, we recommend the conversion of Siegfried, Knott, and any of the following dorms: Pasquerilla West,
JACK 
Pasquerilla East, Flanner, Grace, Stanford or Keenan.
BROGAN 
• We propose that the aforementioned dorms become co-residential section by sec­tion basis. (Due to "L" shape of 
IS 21 
these dorms.) 
TODAY! 
• The hall staff for the dorms
(Fianner Hall) 
would consist of a Rector and assistant rector of opposite sex, and on every floor a male RA
Love, 
in the male section, and a 
Mom, Dad, & Mike 
female RA in the female sec­tion. 
WED., APRIL 19 
10:00 pm A resident of Morrissey Hall reported the theft of his license plate from his vehicle while parked in the D-6 Lot sometime between 4/15 and 4/19. Total loss is estimated at $20.00. 
THURS., APRIL 20 
9:115 pm A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his motor vehicle from the D-2 parking lot sometime between 4/17 and 4/20. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 21 
3:30am Notre Dame Security reported vandalism done to a Holy Cross resident 's motor vehicle while parked in the D-6 parking lot sometime between 4/20 and 4/21. 
8:00 am AN otre Dame employee reported the theft of an 'open/close' sign from the lobby of the South dining Hall sometime between 7:00pm, 4/20 and 7:00 a, 4/21. 
4:30 pm A resident of Pasquerilla West reported the theft of an article of jewelry from inside her dorm room sometime after 4/18. Total loss is estimated at $200.00 
8:00 pm A resident of Zahm Hall reported the theft of his Compact Disc player from inside his dorm room sometime between 4/18 and 4/21. Total loss is estimated at $150. 
SAT., APRIL 22 
12:50 pm A Notre Dame Student was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for disregarding a stop sign at the intersection of Bulla and Ivy road. 
SUN., APRIL 23 
3:15 am Notre Dame Security reported that some unknown person(s) had broke off the gate arm in the South Dining Hall parking lot sometime between 1:45 am and 2:20 am. Total damages are unknown. 
9:45 pm A St. Mary's student reported that she witnessed a hit and run in which an unknown vehicle struck the rear of her car in the Library Circle causing damage to the rear bumper. Total damages are unknown. 
MON., APRIL 24 
4:49 am A Carroll Hall student reported the theft of his roommate's unsecured bicycle from the bike rack near the Architecture Building sometime between 1:20 and 4:49am. Total loss is estimated at $100.00 

Grad Students, Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

--·"­
Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, April 25, 1989 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
'1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Ba1ley OTS Director......•............ Angela Bellanca Controller ............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, V1ewpoint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Repr'ession to be addressed worldwide 
Well, our moralistic joyride is over. The anti-apartheid protesters are retreating from the mountaintop. They have received their tablets written with fire and brimstone, only they don't contain the Ten Com­mandments; 1,1pparently now there is only one, and it reads: "Get in step--divest now!" 
Rarely have we seen a campus so chock-full of bright, aware people be so dominated by a single political issue. No other political subject seems to merit solemn assemblies every Friday at noon on Father Mal­loy's doorstep; no other contro­versial question receives an en­tire week devoted to raising "awareness" of it.. Part of the answer undoubtedly lies in the fact that those of the liberal persuasion here at Notre Dame are being more active. The election of Mr. Bush has made them redouble their efforts to provide an active opposition. Still, this does not explain the exclusive attention paid to apartheid. What are the reasons for this single-issue focus, and how valid are they? 
The first reason advanced is the most obvious one: that apartheid is morally wrong.· It brutally discriminates against South African blacks. It per­petuates them as an economic underclass. It promotes "tor­ture, supression, and murder." No one questions this. On the other hand, South Africa is far from the only nation practicing torture, supression, and mur­der. Many neighboring countries in Africa, under black rule, are repressive one­party states; for that matter, any country in the world proclaiming Marxism­Leninism has plenty of blood on its hands. And we haven't 
DOONESBURY 
YOU'!?£ NOT 

AcaPTING I 
7H8 Aaot.JNT¥' KNOIAJ... 

Ml!</3, 88UOW5 aJUWFIRB YOU/ 
even mentioned psychopaths such as Khadaffi or the Ayatol­lah Khomeini. So, moral revul­sion seems an inadequate rea­son for making apartheid a priority. 
But, America is so involved in South Africa--American companies, etc.--that we have an opportunity to effect real change there, say the anti­apartheid crowds. By implica­tion, this means that we ap­parently lack the same kind of leverage with, say, a commu­nist country. But we sell the So­viet Union ton upon ton of grain, grain the Soviets see as indispensible. Wouldn't this be powerful leverage? Pepsi-Cola has a huge contract to sell its products in the USSR, yet strangely enough there are no calls to boycott Pepsi. In fact, the U.S. has economic, cul­tural, and diplomatic ties with a host of countries that practice some kind of repression. Using anti-apartheid logic, we should be demanding that the U.S. use this "influence" to demand sweeping changes across the globe. Again, it is hard to see why apartheid should be sin­gled out. 
Perhaps apartheid's racism is the deciding factor. Racism, after all, is a heinous practice; punishing someone due to skin color is irrational and brutaliz­ing, not only to its victims but also to its perpetrators. True; but why is racism worse than any other oppression? Throw­ing someone in prison due to his skin color is hateful, but so is imprisoning him due to the political opinions he holds. Repression is repression; its weight is no lighter upon a So­viet dissident in a "psychiatric hospital" than on a black ac­tivist in a Johannesburg jail. I 
Kevin Smant On politics 
would also hazard a guess that more states practice political oppression than racial oppres­sion, so it is not as though apar­theid is a worldwide problem. It certainly has no interna­tional "party" seeking to spread it. 
So why, then, does the apar­theid issue dominate discus­sion here? Two answers sug­
-gest themselves. First, clearly any oppression carried out in a Marxist or leftist state is seen as either necessary, un­avoidable, or both. One prominent anti-apartheid ac­tivist said the other night that, of course, the Soviet Union is a completely different issue-­after all, they provide basic economic rights for their people, they've reduced infant mortality, etc. One questions whether this is of much comfort to the literally millions who have been "liquidated" by the various Soviet rulers. But it s:hould be a lesson to South Africa's present government: Declare yourself tomorrow a Marxist state, and the anti­apartheid movement will be no more--no matter what policies you follow. 
Secondly, for many, the anti­apartheid movement is very convenient. College-aged stu­dents love to rebel against authority. Here we have an ad­ministration and board of trus­tees that proclaim the doctrine of "in loco parentis" and refuse to heed the cries of the Anti­Apartheid Network. Hence, ac­tivists can symbolically tweak the noses of the "establish­ment" while fulfilling one's daily requirement of protesting against racism, oppression, etc. 
Ah, what fun. Eventually, of course, people graduate and go on to their jobs and careers, se­cure in the knowledge that maybe their small role helped in forcing Congress to pass that tough sanctions bill a while ago; perhaps even tougher bills will follow. And what if their ideas were wrong? What if sanctions and divestment lead to a bloody civil war where no one wins? And what about the other oppressed peoples they didn't help? But you· see--their motives were good. Well, no one questions that. But we are responsible for what we do, for what we don't do, and for the consequences thereof. Remem­ber that--and remember that South Africa holds no patent on immorality. The real question is why so many around here seem to believe it does. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate stu­dent in history and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
LETTERS 
ND fails to providE~ for basic academic needs 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Ms. Marley's article, "Freshman Year Classes uniformly uninspir­ing" (April18, 1989), I can say that I partly sympathize with her argument. 
To many students, freshman 
. courses often seem like bad reruns which weren't too popular the first time around; and such courses, sadly, are of­ten taught by professors with better things to do, or by graduate assistants with too much to do (and nowhere to do it, as in the case of the Fresh­man Writing Program). Notre 
IF I f?O TH/5 CAM­PAIGN, I'MAN A(aJM­P/Xb TO PW/?1,/NG A f)RJJG THAT a.AIMS OV/31<. 300,axJ LJV/35 
A YeAR.' 
Dame should provide good teachers. No argument there. 
We differ where, early in her piece, she suggests that poor freshmen are alone in this gosh-darn-awful fix; in fact, graduate students as well as most undergrads suffer from the University's love of rheto­ric, sports, and money (pick two) and its failure to provide for its "family's" basic needs. 
It is also clear that by the time she sinks into the agony of her final sentences, she's missed the point of her own argument: while Notre Dame's athletes are world champion couriers of the Holy Ghost-­while every spring the ACC hosts what is probably by golly the world's largest Home and Garden Show--while an Irish president chit chats with an­other gold leaf donor, frustrated teachers hold office hours in LaFortune Student Center, teach classes to. dis­gruntled students like Ms. Mar­ley, and go to work in an under booked library. 
Well, maybe we don't dis­agree that much. 
Christopher Strathman Off-campus April 20, 1989 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'In these times you have to be an optimist to open your eyes in the morning.' 
Carl Sandburg 

Accent 
The best and worst in television 
T 
he Writers Strike of 1988 cost many people a great deal of money and almost prevented a new television season. Luckily, the strike ended, and the season that almost wasn't proved to be one of the best. Looking back, it was a season of fun, fascina­there is no "Best New Drama" this season. 
Most Improved Show: 
This is probably one of the most important categories, because it honors a show's constant dedication to quality and improvement. This year, there's a tie. With new producers and 
tions, and foolishness. Best Comedy: "The 
Wonder Years" (ABC) has Joe Bucolo 
delighted audiences since 
its start. The show never 
ceases to portray refresh­To Be Continued ... 

ing, original comedy and I 
wonderful characters. The show's ratings are proof that America wants quality entertainment. 
Best Drama: TV's smartest drama is CBS' "Wiseguy." A cop show with a twist, this series redefines the words "ac­tion" and "excitement." Its six and seven week plotline format adds an in­triguing and realistic di­mension to the battle against evil, and the show's musical guest stars, such as Glenn Fry and Deborah Harry, are only one example of the show's commitment to creativity. 
Best Prime Time Soap: 

The · · and 
writers, ABC's "Dynasty" is a totally new show. The dialogue is natural; the ridiculous glitz of the past has less of a sparkle; the plotlines are original and exciting. The return of Sable Colby more than compensated for the loss of Krystle, and the show has maintained respectable ratings despite its competi­tion and terrible lead-in shows. 
The other show that has improved is ABC's "Full House." The show no longer relies solely on the cute 11ttle girls to survive. 
New plotlines and fully developed characters are a refreshing addition to this show and, while it still has a way to go, the show is a wonderful start to ABC's powerhouse Friday lineup. 
Other Awards: The You Only Get What You Deserve award goes to "Moonlighting." The show treated viewers poorly last year so viewers treated the show poorly this year. "Moonlighting's" ratings have placed a frown upon the Man in the Moon. 
ABC's highly rated sit­com "Growing Pains" receives the Come On, You Can Do Better Than That award. This once zany and spontaneous show has fal­len into a rut of social com­mentaries and overdone plotlines. 
"The Golden Girls" of 
NBC receives the We Only 
Get Better With Age 
award. The show hasn't lost one ounce of its wit and charm since it began. These girls entertain audiences of all ages and will continue to be a golden hit for NBC. 
Finally, this year's Get Real! award goes to NBC's "The Hogan Family." Sup­posedly taking place in Chicago, the show presents scenes with palm trees, a cheap set representing O'Hare Airport, and a building with the word "Northwestern" on it to represent the prestigious university. And are viewers really supposed to believe that wisecracking David Hogan got into Northwestern, let alone chose to live at home? 
To date, the 1988-89 tele­vision season has been an intriguing one; however, there's more to come. With the nighttime soap clif­fhangers, "War and Remembrance," an Oliver North mini-series, the Tony awards, and several new sitcoms yet to come, the May ratings period will keep viewers on the edge of their seats. 
.--------_,____________ 
Tuesday, April 25, 1989 page 9 
An Tostal Entertainment 

Billy '"Stix" Nicks (seated) and The N's and Outs, (standing, from left to 
right) Robert Outley, Steve Parker, Ed "EZ" Wright, and Dwayne 
Lightner, will perform at the Picnic at Stepan Field on April 29th from 
11:00 am -1:30pm. 
Billy''Stix''Nicks 
and 
The N's andOuts 
ing champ is CBS' "Knots Landing." The characters are down to earth and real; the plotlines are in­genious and intelligent; the actors are talented and en­joyable. The show managed to tackle "L.A. Law" and win its Thursday timeslot. Part of the show's appeal stems from its younger cast. The series will continue to keep audiences in knots for years to come. 
Best New Comedy: While "Roseanne" is the ratings champ, NBC's "Dear John" presents a unique new premise for a sitcom. The show's intriguing char­acters and zany humor is a welcome addition to a lineup full of "copycats." 
Best New Drama: 
Believe it or not, there 
were so few new dramas 
this year, none of which 
were noteworthy, that 

JANICE ARCHER 
accent writer 
T 
hroughout An Tostal Week, different bands will be entertaining those on campus. But the picnic at Stepan Center on Saturday has a special feature for music fans. Billy "Stix" Nicks and the N's and Outs will be playing on the biggest day of this spring celebration. 
Billy "Stix" Nicks and the N's and Outs were fully formed a little over a year ago. Nicks has been working with his current bass player, Dwayne Lightner, for six years. They had been search­ing for dedicated musicians who were willing to make the strong committment that being a band member entails. 
After moving to the South Bend area from Los Angeles, Nicks found it difficult to find musicians who viewed music as more than just a hobby. "It seemed as if no one wanted to put in the effort and time needed for rehear­sals," explains Nicks. Ed "EZ" Wright joined Nicks and Lightner about four years ago as their vocalist, and guitarists Robert Outly and Dan Chamberlain became part of the group shortly after. Last April, Steve Parker, a keyboardist, was added to round out the group, and Billy "Stix" Nicks and theN's and Outs were born. 
Nicks, drummer and back­ground vocalist for the group, is a former recording artist. 
He went into the service in the 50's and toured Europe with the Third Infantry Divi­sion Band. In December of 
1965, he joined Junior Walker 
and the All-Stars after their 
hit song, "Shotgun." They 
made an album for Atlantic 
Records. 
In 1966, a year after the local station WNDU opened, Billy "Stix" Nicks and the Rhythm Rockers played for the TV show "Club 46." Every Saturday afternoon, viewers heard and watched their band perform Top 40 hits, R&B tunes, and rock songs. 
The list of superstar performers Nicks has played with is extensive. During 1966 and 1967, he appeared all over the country. He per­formed for seven days at the Apollo Theater in New York with the Spinners, at the Regal Theater in Chicago with the Temptations, and in Washington with the Four Tops at the Howard Theater. Nicks also worked with Mar­vin Gaye for seven days at the Apollo. 
Nicks has done several benefits and specialty shows. He has toured with Wilson Pickett, and in June 1966, they did four shows in Shea Stadium with "Batman's" Adam West and Frank Gor­shin in a vaudeville-type vari­ety show. Also in 1966, he played in a benefit for the United Negro College Fund, along with Sammy Davis Jr. and Louis Armstrong. 
Nicks and his new band are a perennial favorite on campus. Locally, they have entertained at the Holiday Inn of South Bend, and they regu­larly play at the Center Street Blues Cafe. They have played at the Alumni-Senior Club, and sang at Theodore's on St. Patrick's Day. Saturday's appearance for the An Tostal celebration is sure to attract many music fans who wish to 
..

see a performance by an art­ist with a rich and exciting musical past, and his band of the future. 

Tuesday, April 25, 1989

page 10 The Observer 
•

Deer hits HR 1n 9th off Twin's Reardon to win 5-4 
Associated Press 

MILWAUKEE--Rob Deer hit a two­
run homer with two outs in the ninth 
inning off Jeff Reardon to give the Mil­
waukee Brewers a 5-4 victory over the 
Minnesota Twins Monday night. 

The Twins had taken a 4-3 lead in 
the top of the ninth when Dan Gladden 
homered and Kent Hrbek hit a 
sacrifice fly off reliever Dan Plesac. 
Gary Sheffield singled in the ninth and scored on Deer's home run. 
Reardon fell to 0-1 and Dan Plesac, 1-0, pitched 1 2-3 innings for the vic­tory. 
The Brewers took a 3-2 lead off Frank Viola in the sixth inning when Dave Engle and B.J. suroff hit solo homers. Viola pitched 6 1-3 innings and allowed nine hits. 
TiQers 1, Mariners 0 

DETROIT--Doyle Alexander pitched a seven-hitter and Torey Lovullo hit a sacrifice fly in the seventh inning as the Detroit Tigers beat the Seattle Mariners 1-0 Monday night. 
Alexander, 3-0, walked five and struck out none. It was his 18th career shutout. 
Mark Langston, 2-3, gave up five hits, walked three and struck out four in seven innings. 
Chris Brown walked on a full count in the seventh inning. Brown, running on another full count, went to third on Mike Heath's single and scored on Lovullo's sacrifice fly to center field. 
Yankees 6, Indians 3 
CLEVELAND--Rickey Henderson drove in two runs with a bases-loaded single during a four-run fourth inning as the New York Yankees beat the Cleveland Indians 6-3 Monday night. 
Dave LaPoint, 2-1, allowed three runs on five hits in six-plus innings. Lee Guetterman pitched 2 1-3 innings and Dave Righetti got the last two outs for his second save. 
Bud Black, 1-3, gave up a single to Don Slaught and Wayne Tolleson drew a two-out walk. Alvaro Espinoza sin­gled off second baseman Jerry Browne's glove for one run, and Roberto Kelly then hit the catcher's mitt with his bat while hitting a foul ball and was awarded first to load the bases. 
Henderson's single scored two runs, and Steve Sax made it 4-0 with an RBI single. 
Phillies 8, Astros 4 

HOUSTON--Tommy Herr went 3­for-5 and scored three runs as the Philadelphia Phillies beat the Houston Astros 8-4 Monday night. 
Greg Harris, 1-0, pitched four in­nings of one-hit relief for the victory. 
With the score tied 1-1, the Phillies 
scored three runs in the third inning. 
Juan Samuel led off with a walk and 
moved to third on Herr's single and 
scored when reliever Bob Forsch, 1-1, 
balked. Mike Schmidt singled in Herr, 
and after a single by Ricky Jordan, 
Darren Daulton singled in another 
run. 
Forsch had relieved starter Jim Clancy, who left after two innings with an injury. Clancy, an 11-year veteran of the American League before com­ing to the Astros in the offseason, got his first major-league hit in the second inning but was removed when he suf­fered a strained left hamstring while running to first. 
Glenn Davis went 3-for-4 for the Astros with three RBis. 
Athletics 5, Blue Jays 4 
OAKLAND, Calif.--Tony Phillips doubled home the tying and winning runs with one out in the ninth inning to give Oakland a 5-4 victory over Toronto Monday night, extending the Athletics' winning streak to six games. 
The Athletics were trailing 4-3 when Tom Henke, 1-2, replaced starter Jimmy Key to start the ninth. 
Pinch-hitter Luis Polonia led off with a double and pinch-hitter Stan Javier walked. Henke got Walter Weiss on a fly to center field, but Phil­lips hit a 1-2·pitch up the right-center field alley to score Polonia and Javier. 
Gene Nelson, making his first ap­pearance since coming off the dis­abled list, pitched the ninth inning for his first victory. 
Angels 3, Orioles 2 
ANAHEIM, Calif.--Jim Abbott, who had struggled in his two previous starts, won his first major-league game Monday night with six strong innings as the California Angels beat the Baltimore Orioles 3-2. 
Abbott, the 1988 Olympic hero for the gold medal-winning American team, allowed the two runs on four hits and three walks. He struck out one and had one wild pitch. 
Abbott, who was born without a right hand, is only the 16th player in the draft era to go directly from amateur ball to the majors. 
Greg Minton replaced Abbott, who had thrown 97 pitches, to start the seventh inning and Bryan Harvey finished for his third save. 
Abbott had lost his first two outings, being roughed up for 15 hits and 10 runs in 10 2-3 innings. 
Against the Orioles, a solo homer by Lance Parrish, his first as an An­gel, and a run-scoring grounder by Johnny Ray rallied the Angels from a 2-1 deficit in the fifth inning. 
In other baseball action last night, the San Diego Padres defeated the At­lanta Braves by a score of 5-2 
The Observer accepts class1fleds every bus1ness day from 10 am until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame oH1ce. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 unlll 3 p m at the Saint Mary"s ofl1ce. Haggar College Center. Deadl1ne for next· day class1f1eds 1s 3 p m. All classifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepa1d The charge is 10 cents per f1ve characters per day 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for 
CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash 
or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. 
Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 
233-2342 
TYPING 
PICKUP & DELIVERY 
277-7406 
RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­vice anytime at 299-0063. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS VOCATION COUNSELING for the ONE­YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and other ministry opportunities. Contact: FR. JOHN CONLEY, CSC BOX 541 NOTRE DAME 239-6385 
Pray to St. Jude 
HOUSESITTING for Summer Respon­sible for: clean house, pets, plants, yard. Call Debbie 283-4500 
Secretary's Day Is TOMOBROW! THE COUNTRY HARVESTER (Lafortune Basement) has the perfect gift for your right-hand gal. Baskets, mugs, gourmet cocoas & cofleas. Open 12-5:30. 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
DO YOU HAVE A BLUE & WHITE WIL­SON GOLF UMBRELLA? IF YOU PICKED IT UP FROM NIEWLAND 127 BETWEEN 9:15 AND 10:45 ON THURSDAY, PLEASE RETURN IT TO ITS OWNER. X4927 PLEASE 
I lost a camera case on stepan courts last week. call 255-5152 if you found it. Thanks. 
FOUND-set of dorm keys in Cushing Hall. call 4328 to claim 
FOR RENT 

NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-6389, 683-8889. 
THERE'S STILL A HOUSE AVAILABLE IN GOOD CONDITION AND EXCEL­LENT LOCATION--SAFE AND CLOSE­4-5 BEDROOMS. FURNISHED. 233­9947 
APT. 2 PEOPLE GOOD NEIGHBOR­HOOD 288-09551.189-2331 
MALE GRADUATES FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272­ofitS. 
SUB-LEASING TURTLE CR. TWNHOUSE IF INTERESTED CALL TIMOAN x1066 
or LANCE x2458 

Turtle Creek Townhouse available fo summer.Price negoctiable 272-9298 .................................................. Moving to NYC? Lg 1 bdrm. apt. for rent Aug. 1. Good midtown foe. AC, DW & lg closets. Per­fect for share. Call Betsy or Jackie. (212) 582-4250. 
subleWAlonsmoke.Srendenwoodlt rm of 2 bdroomtheap-2875329 after 8pm 
WANTED 
GOVERNMENT JOBS! NOW HIRING THIS AREAl $10,213 TO $75,473. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 EXT F-2382H. 
Looking for a female housemate to share a 4 bedroom house located 6 miles north of campus. $225 plus utilities. Available May 1. Call Jayne after 5:30-272-8805. 
$$$$ NEED A SUMMER JOB? $$$$ Positions as sales reps. available Work near your home, fulf1>art time Commis­sion basis-you determine $$$$ For ap­pointment call Brad, 283-1246 
I am looking for a bike for grad school next year. Steve 3767 
RIDE NEEDED to and if possible from Madison, WI between finals & senior wk. call Denise 2541 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE lg. wooden couch and chair 75$ call LISETTE 271-9396,1eave msg 
......... ............... FOR SALE: Brother electronic type writer. Call Sue. 283-4910. 
'79 PINTO WAGON. STICK SHIFT, GOOD SHAPE, DEPENDABLE, HIGH MILES. $600. 277-6031. 
'81 Subaru, FWD. 108K. Best offer dad is giving me his-must sell 3554 
TICKETS 
$$$ GRAD TIX WANTED $$$ Call Michelle at 3196 
'''WANTED-I grad tix. will pay$$ Call # 3183 ••• 
... HAWAIIAN CLUB LUAU ... Saturday, April 29 So. Dining Hall 6-9 p.m. Tickets $5.00 On sale now at ISO office 
................................................................ 
I need 5 graduation tix-call Tom 3155 or 3157 
PLANE TICKET TO PHILADELPHIA MAY 12 $ 75: 239-6208(DAY) 287­1243(NIGHT) ······ ···················· 
$$Garduation Tickets Wanted-Big Sue Call Bob # 3467 
PERSONALS ] 
3 seconds away and you'd better not have a headache! !I!!! !I 
hi ag 

SCAP .... The Word of the Future !II Use 
it NOW!! 

............................. 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-800-343-8373. 
EYE CONTACT BRAND NAME LENSES START AT 19.95 EA. 1-800­255-2020. 
I need a ride to IU for Little 500 weekend. Can leave anytime, will pay for gas. Please call Kathleen at # 2666. 
I NEED GRAD TIXI CALL MIKE# 1558 
SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $279 each way on discounted scheduled airlines to Europe from Chicago. Call (800) 325-2222. 
································································ 
JUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS!!! 
Meeting for all interested in 
the October Break trip to 
CANCUN, MEXICO 
Tuesday,· Apr.25 
Montgomery Theater, Lafortune 
7:00 
JUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS!!! Meeting lor all interested in the October 
Break trip to 
CANCUN, MEXICO 
Tuesday, Apr.25 
Montgomery Theater, Lafortune 
7:00 
;;~;·ooN··o~~--w~rld.~hi~-~~ii·s:;gs····· 
.....SENIORs•••.. SENIOR MONTH IS HERE!!! 
DON'T MISS THE ACTION 
•••••sENIORS'.... 
DON'T BE A GEEK BE A SENIOR 
SENIOR MONTH SENIOR MONTH 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, 
JENNIFER AMESTOY 
HAVE A GREAT DAY!! 
LOVE, MOM & DAY 
MALE TO SHARE TOWNHOUSE NEAR NO. CALL TYLF.R 277-41131 OR 271­9360 
For anyone interested in helping out with the production of the St.Edward's Hall Players 90-91 production ol "Noises Off", there will be a short meeting on Tues. April 25th at 7:30 in the St. Eds party lounge. If you are interested in... Direct­Ing, Producing, Stage Managing, Publicity, Tech "Stuff" and Such 
please attend!!! 
THANK YOU ST. JUDEI GAR ....................................................... AN TOSTAL AN TOSTAL 
IMPERSONATIONS AND COMEDY SIGN UPS. SIGN UP FOR ONE, THE OTHER, OR BOTH CALL 284-5342 ASK FOR JULIE, PENNEY, OR KELLY. AN 
TOSTAL ....................................... SMC FRESHMAN FORMIIL BOXERS 
"APRIL SHOWEI~S" ON SALE NOW IN ROOM 507, 510 OF LEMAN! ONL V$5.00111 WHAT A BAR­GAIN! LIMITED SUPPLY-SO BUY NOW 
MY BAND NEEDS ME! I desperately need a ride anywhere near Cleveland the weekend of April 28. PLEASE CALL! x 1 07 4 
MACINTOSH OWNERS Are you plan­ning on storing your computer over the summer? Then you are the person I want! I would like to RENT your computer for the summer. Price negotiable. Call X1401 Ask for ERIC. 
so you think you're sly, cunning,& witty try & find me & I will prove you silly I'm Mr N.D. Bar, brown & square I've been faded by th1s chilly spring air 
MY ROOMMATE IS WEIRD 
ATTENTION: ANYONE LIVING IN N'IC AREA NEED THINGS SHIPPED HOME? CALL JOHN AT 271-11704 OR 283-1789 (AFTER I O:OOPM) 
Join the MARY KAY WAI.LER date of the day club. Membership Includes mass outings to Senior 13ar, with OJI· tlonal rides home to a vnrlt~ble bevy of new and exciting bedn. 
LIZ AND CANDY CANNOT BE STOPPED! OUR JUGGERNAUT IS SE­CURE SO BEWARE! LONG LIVE THE SWEENEY SISTERS!IIIII 
Friends, neighbors, countrymen & belles, Remember to vote for Regina's Winning Team: Cathy Fisher, president: Bridget Awe, vice-president; Chris Bacon, sec­retary: & Traci Zerbenski, treasurer. 
NEW YORK NEW YORK NEW YORK HELP! I NEED A RIDE HOME TO ANYWHERE IN THE STATE PREFERABLY SOMEWHERE BETW. ALBANY & NY LEAVING 5112, 13 OR 14 I pack light & will share expenses Please call x3719 
HOPING TO ADOPT We're a happily married, financially secure couple with a beautiful home and lots of love to share with a much­
wanted beby. If you are pregnant and considering adoption, please call us. Expen.,s paid. Confidential, legal. Please call Deborah and David collect day or night at 312-935-4088. 
VOTE DAN-0 YU FOR UMOC 
JUST LOOK AT HIS FRESHMAN DOG­G BOOK PICTURE(REMEMBER THE SWORD IN HIS FACE?) VOTE DAN-0 VOTE DAN-0 YU FOR UMOC 
VOTED MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED 
LEONA HELMSLEY: KELLY 
CAMPBELL SHE'S A B'..H ON 
WHEELS AND WOULD PROBABLY 
MAKE A NICE WIFE 
-BAD ATTITUDES 
LOOK OUT!!! FARLEY IS MAKIN' WAVES DURING AN TOSTAL 
TOMORROW FARLEY IS MAKIN' WAVES!!! 
................................................. 
HEY CLIQUE, 
Thanx for Everything! 
You guys are the greatest' 
and LIFE IS GOOD!!(thanx to you all Luv 
ya, Deb 
ATTENTION AN TOSTAL GOLFERS: STEVE SERRA is playing in the tourna­ment, and he's the man to beat! He shot a 73 the other day ... and did even better the next 9 holes! GO RA-MAN! 
-Paulie 
.............................................................. 
Eileen, This weekend meant the world to me. I love you--Fitz 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES I!!!! Want FREE ADMISSION to next year's Junior Class Events? 
Looking to meet more of your 
classmates? Looking to help our class as a photog­rapher at class events? Join the Class of 1991 Photography 
Group Contact Sean Scanlon at 283-1139 
............................................;................... 
SIMON origmal soundtrack recordings are now available at the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune for $7 each, or call Rob Meffe at # 3660 
DEANNE, GOOD LUCK ON FINALS. t LOVE YOU. GIVE ME ANOTHER CHANCE. OUR DIFFERENCES CAN MAKE FOR A VERY INTERESTING LIFETIME. 
Kerry & Matt YOU'RE GOING DOWN!!! --R.C, Chad. Doug. JonPaul, Patrick. Jeff. Ronny, Bobby, Ricky, and Mike. 
GOING TO FLORIDA??? Anyone looking for riders at the end of the school year to Orlando, Daytona. or Ft. Lauderdale, please call W1ll at 263­2089. 
MARK MANNING FOR UMOC 
.......................... VOTE MARK MANNING-UGLY MAN ON CAMPU 
Vote MICHAEL KIRKWOOD for Ugly Man on Campus '89 You'll be glad you did! 
FUTURE LEMANS HALLS RESIDENTS 89-90 VOTE FOR PRES. COLLEEN MCCARTHY, VP GINA SPEZIALE, SECRETARY NANCY CAMPBELL, & TREASURER EVE BARTOLONE. CONNECT WITH US TOMORROW! 
PARROT HEADS FOREVER 
It's getting UGLY Top UMOC vote winners so lar: t.Dan-0 Yu 2.Mark J. Hahn 
3. Steve Donovan 4.Mark Rizzieri S.Mike "Butt Ugly" Paese Lafortune voting: T-Th 7-9 next to info booth 
JENNIFER AMESTOY IS FINALLY LEGAL!II 
Dear Jen, We hope you had fun last night--not TOO much. Have a GREAT 21st!!! 
Love, The Mullins 
Need HOUSESITTING lor summer? I'm responsible for: clean house, pets, yard. Call Debbie 283-4500 
D, thanks for taking my last dip Marty S. loves the Tunnel of Bung Bob A. says "What have you guys been drinkin." No seriously, Anne isn't well blessed. Dan, did you take that offer from the Chicago Pipe Laying Inc. last weekend? Tim, Why is your roomate so freakin weird? (Father) Joe, How are those girls in your seminar lookin? 

----~-----------­

The Observer I Trey Reymond 
Bookstore Basketball is now down to the final32 teams. After today, the remaining number of teams will be 16. 
flict. The incident involving the crowd might have stemmed from a controversial jump ball call earlier in the contest where 
Upset 
continued from page 16 
some pushing occurred. 
Once peace was restored, "I didn't want to get too in-both Graham and Gauchos' volved in the game," said Pete DiGionanni were ejected referree Mike Pearl, "so I let from the game. Since it was de-some fouls go. On the jump 
termined that he didn't in-ball, there was some pushing. stigate the fight, DiGiovanni We told the players if anything will be eligible for Tuesday's happened, everyone involved game against The Good, the would be kicked out." Bad and the Laundry. In other action, Minahoonies 
"This was the first time in disposed of Whiskey Richard this tournament we've had to 21-18, Train and the Fuz­actually eject players," said zbusters blew away Hoopsters Bookstore assistant commis-From Hell 21-3. sioner Steve Perkins. Notes: Tomorrow's games 
Perkins characterized the scheduled for Bookstore 9 will game as physical from the out-be played on Stepan 2, and set and noted that few fouls those scheduled for Bookstore were called prior to the con-10 will be moved to Stepan 6. 
C
'ALCULUS... 
The Ultimate Sunscreen. 
You shouldn't be sitting in the sun during the middle of the day anyway. Try DePaul's summer programs -a wide range of transferable courses. You'll feel better, your skin won't look like a hand-tooled Moroccan saddle, and next year's schedule will be a lot easier. 
Science/Math: a full year of credit in ten weeks ...Calculus, Physics, Organic Chemistry 
Modern Languages: a full year of French in ten weeks 
Computer Science: 5-week courses from introductory to advanced 
And other 5-week courses in Art, Biology, Communications, English, Geography, History, Mathematics, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Religious Studies, Business. 
REGISTER NOW BY MAIL. 
CLASSES BEGIN JUNE 13. 
Call 312/341-8300, 1-800-4DEPAUL (out of state) or return the coupon to DePaul University, Office of Admissions, 25 E. Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, IL 60604. 

Please send me summer registration materials 
Name ss• 
Home-Address 
City State Zip 
Current College 
Irish track takes Kansas trip 
Kevin Watson leads crew at 90-degree Kansas Relays 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
Last weekend, the heat of competition was very great for the Notre Dame track team. If it was not the tough competi­tion of the Kansas Relays, it was the blistering 90 plus degree weather that limited the Irish. 
The weather may have been very hot in Lawrence, but one particular runner burned up the track and made it even hot­ter. Junior Glen Watson took second place in the 110-meter high hurdles with an outstand­ing time of 14.24 seconds. This was only .12 seconds off his per­sonal record. The second place finish was the highest of any Irish athlete at the meet. 
The sprint medley relay team also performed well, grabbing third place in a very competitive race. The relay 
team is made up of Richard 
Culp, Xavier Victor, Yan 
Searcy, and Brian Peppard. 
Sophmore John Cole nearly 
equaled his personal record in 
the high jump with a jump of 6 
feet, 11 inches. Cole, who is only 
six feet tall, took fifth place in 
the meet. In the 800-meters, 
two Irish runners placed in the 
top six. Senior David Warth 
took fourth and sophmore 
Mark Lavery crossed the line 
sixth with a personal record of 
1:51.62. 
The mile relay team was the only disapointment for the Irish. Although it finished fourth, Notre Dame coach Joe Piane expected them to fare better. 
"I was a little disapointed with the mile relay, but in defense of their performance, it was hotter then a pistol out there," stated Piane. "It was most unpleasant for the run­ners, but overall, it was a good meet for us." 
Closer to home, numerous Irish athletes competed in the highly competitive Indiana In­tercollegiate meet. John Stewart was the highest Irish finisher with a second place award in the javelin. Fresh­man Shawn Schneider also ran well, winning third place in the 5000 meters. The Philadelphia native has been running very consistently of late and should make an impact in future years. 
"Last weekend was very pro­ductive for us," stated Piane. "It should help us out for the remainder of the year." 
This weekend, the track team will again split up and at­tend seperate meets. Most will travel to the Ball State Relays while others will compete in one of the biggest meets of the season in the Drake Relays. 
Saint Mary's track team takes sixth at NAIA District meet 
By ANNE GALLAGHER Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team placed sixth in the NAIA Dis­trict meet on Saturday, April 22 at Taylor University. 
"We are very young and began the season with some dif­ficulties but we finished on a strong note," said Head Coach Larry Szczechowski. 
Taylor University won the meet with 193 points. Anderson placed second with 71.5 points and DePauw with 53 points was third. Manchester College inched by the Belles'40 points with 43 points and a 5th-place finish. 11 teams competed in the meet. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
going to be very effective. When they're not able to do that, they've had some prob­lems this year." 
More than anything, though, Notre Dame will be seeking to forget the blowout loss to Ohio Wesleyan and instead look to regain the form that propelled them to a record' seven con­secutive wins. 
In Saturday's game, Ohio Wesleyan outshot Notre Dame 45-32 and came up with a 56-44 edge on ground balls. Most im­
. pressively, though, the Bishops won 20 of 26 faceoffs on their way to putting the game out of reach. 
Sophomore John Capano led 
Saint Mary's sophomore, Nicole Hill, captured the Dis­trict Champion title for the 10,000-meter run with a time of 41 minutes, 19 seconds. Also Jeannette O'Neill set a school record and placed 2nd in the javelin event with a 16-foot, 5­inch throw. 
Saint Mary's set another record in the Sprint-Medley competition. Medley members Kerry Meehan, Sandi Macklin, Lianne Stevenson and Jenny Stimsom finished 5th with their record time of 202.4 seconds. The 4x400 meter relay with Heidi Finniff, Beth Seymour, Mary Cassidy and Maggie Daday ran away with an im­
both the Spartans and Ohio State after losing to the Buck­eyes 6-4 several days later. More recently, the Irish and Spartans battled to a 7-7 tie in a pre-season scrimmage that left Irish coach Kevin Corrigan wary of the physical Michigan State squad. 
"It'll be a physical game simply for what's at stake," Corrigan said. "They are a very physical and athletic team that and that's what they rely on." 
"They score most of their points on unsettled situations and try to get you into a fast­paced game where they control the tempo," he continued. "If they're able to do that, they're the Irish with two goals while junior Rob Lynn and senior defenseman Doug Spencer 
HAPPY21 ST BIRTHDAY 

JENNIFER AMESTOY 
LOVE, YOUR 845 GANG 
pressive 2nd place finish. 
Although the team continues to increase in number, as 17 competed compared to last year's nine, Saint Mary's was still underepresented this year at Districts. 
"We need sprinters, field event people and weight people," said Szczechowski. 
The team overcame its size this past weekend and sees an even stronger team in the fu­ture. 
"I'm so proud of the team. I've seen so much growth in our comittment and in the organi­zation of our coaching," said Nicole Hill. 
each chipped in a goal and as­sist. 
The turnstyle on the Irish at­tack line continued to turn as junior Dave Carey returned from a knee injury only to see his classmate Brian McHugh sit out the game with a deep thigh bruise. Freshman Mike Sullivan started for McHugh and Carey came off the bench to score a late goal. 
The Bishops were able to combine a fast-breaking of­fense with a stubborn and ag­gressive defense to frustrate the Irish all day. Continual Irish efforts to drive to the cage were foiled by tough interior defense while hurried outside shots often missed wide. 
The Irish captains and coach agreed, though, that Satur­day's loss should have little ef­fect on the game with Michigan State and on Saturday's equally significant battle at Ohio State. 
"I think we're in great shape. No one likes to lose like that, but we're already over it. The character of this team has been to take one game at a time," said senior tri-captain Kevin O'Connor. 
"I don't think the loss will in­terrupt our momentum at all. We realized what we did bad and we're going to work on that," he continued. "Even in the fourth quarter, when the game was over, we kept working hard and knew the most important thing was to get momentum for Michigan State. 

page 12 


The Observer I Trey Raymond 

The Notre Dame softball team, 24-20, won two games on Monday at Grace College. Prior to that, the Irish lost five straight at the Windy City Classic. 
AL East labelled 'AL Least' by critics 
Tuesday, April 25, 1989

The Observer 
ND softball team stays busy 
Irish win two at Grace after losing 5 straight in tourney 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
After a disappointing weekend, the Notre Dame softball team got back on track by winning two against Grace College Monday nigl)t. 
After losing five straight in the Windy City Classic over the weekend, Notre Dame beat Grace 6-0, 4-2 to raise its record to 24-20. 
In Monday's first game, Barb Mooney and Missy Linn combined to pitch a one-hitter in the 6-0 shutout. Rachel Cros­sen went 3-for-3 with 4 RBI. In the second, she belted a three­run homerun. 
In the second game, the Irish escaped with a 4-2 win in extra innings, when Crossen doubled home the game-winning run in the eighth. Missy Linn went all the way to improve her record to 18-13, allowing just three hits. 
Notre Dame went into the Windy City Classic competition having won seven of its last eight games, but lost all five games it played. Among the losses was a defeat under the hands of Loyola, a team the Irish had beaten three times earlier this year. 
Notre Dame opened the weekend tournament, which was held in Chicago, with a game against Wisconsin-Green Bay on Friday. The Phoenix had defeated the Irish twice previously this season, and the results were the same this time around. Phoenix pitcher Jody Radies held the Notre Dame players to just five hits and one run over seven innings to take the victory with a final score of 2-1. 
The only highlight of the game for the Irish was the per­formance of freshman second baseman Laurie Sommerlad, who was 2-for-3 and scored the lone run for the team. 
Notre Dame hoped to bounce back in the second game of the Classic against Loyola, whose record had been 1-29. The Ramblers had other ideas, however, and surprised the Irish to raise their record to 2­29. 
In the bottom of the fifth, with the Irish leading 3-0, Loyola scored three runs to tie, and added two runs in the bootom of the sixth to record the win. The game was shor­tened to six innings due to a time limit. 
Barb Mooney started the game for Notre Dame and lasted for 4 1-3 innings before being replaced by Linn. Linn took her second loss of the day after she allowed three hits and two earned runs. The final score was 5-3. 
On Saturday, the Irish were pounded for nine runs by the host team, DePaul, whose record going into the tourna­ment action was 25-12. 
Notre Dame came close to victory on Sunday with an early morning game against Drake (9-25 entering the tournament). Drake jumped out to an early 2-0 lead, but the Irish scored one run in both the second and third innings to tie the game. The battle went on into the sixth inning with both teams scoring a run before Drake put another run on the scoreboard in the seventh to win the game. 
Ruth Kmak had an RBI and also scored a run with a 1-for-2 day at the plate. Sommerlad had another good game, going 2-for-4, and Rachel Crossen and Mia Faust were both 1-for-3. 
One hour after the Drake game, Notre Dame lost to the eventual tournament cham­pion, Northern Iowa, by a score of 2-0. 
"Actually I was very pleased with our effort," said Notre Dame coach Joe Speybroek. "With the exception of the DePaul game, all the games were close. We played with the top teams in the area, the teams that have a full compli­ment of scholarships." 
Associated Press 
Maybe it's parity, but more likely it's mediocrity. The American League East is now the AL least. 
How lousy is it? The Bal­timore Orioles are in first place. That's because everyone else is below .500. 
"No one's got off to a good start, which is obvious," Bal­timore's Gregg Olson said. "We're just hangin' in." 
The Orioles, the worst team in baseball last season, are leading at 9-8. Toronto, Boston, Milwaukee and Cleveland are two games below the break­even point, New York is three under and Detroit is 5-10. 
Perhaps the AL west has fi­nally caught up. Three weeks into the season, Texas, Oak­land, Kansas City and Min­nesota are better than anyone in the East, once far-and-away the strongest division. 
Overall, the West is 33-18 in games against the East. Last year, East held a 568-563 mar­gin, its slimmest edge over the West since 1977. 
Texas is 13-4, all against East teams. The Rangers won their opening five road games for the first time in history, beating up Milwaukee and Detroit. Kansas City completed a weekend romp against the defending East champion Bos­ton Red Sox, the Royals' first three-game sweep at Fenway Park since 1971. Minnesota scored 35 runs in five games against New York. 
"I'm not too sure that there aren't four clubs in the West that might be as good as the top clubs in the East," Detroit manager Sparky Anderson said. "I do think the power shift has switched. It switched last year. Last year, the West was better, but that was after 15 years of the East being better. 
"I don't know that we're all 

< off to such a slow start," he said. "I think it's that the East clubs have had to play the West clubs." Injuries, for sure, are hurting 
I 10 °/o I I off your 

I 1 FIRST MONTHS I 1 RENTAL I I 816 E McKinley I I 259-0335 1 
I I 

I I CALL RYDER TRUCKS AT THESE LOCATIONS 
I I 

I I 2715 N. Bendix 277-3550 US33N 272-1669 I I 2306 Western Ave. 289-7515 2625 S. Main 232-6729 1914 Miami 289-6721 1129 N. Bendix 288-0316
I I 
I I 
RYDER® 
We're there at every tum."" 
the East. The Yankees are without Dave Winfield through the All-Star break, Toronto lost Tony Fernandez, Milwaukee started minus Ted Higuera, Paul Molitor and Juan Nieves, and Cleveland opened without John Farrell. 
But good teams win despite injuries. Oakland has a five­game winning streak without Jose Canseco and Mark McGwire. 
"The good thing about going bad the way we are right now is no one else in the AL east is hot," Boston's Jim Rice said. "No one is running away from us." 
The Red Sox won the division last year with 89 victories, the fewest ever for an AL east champion. Still, five East teams were above .500 last year compared to three in the West. 
Whether the trend continues 
might depend on the weather. 
fCUfif-1 

II OUT! I 
I and save I 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Off campus lacrosse plays Thursday, The Rowing Clubwillholdamandatory April 27, at 8 p.m. on Cartier Field against meeting on Wednesday, April26, at 7:30p.m. Alumni. Call Bill at 287-5758 for more infor­in Niewland, room 118. Money will be col­mation. -The Observer lected for Madison and the awards banquet. 
-The Observer 
The Sailing Club will hold a mandatory Sports Briefs are accepted in writing meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. in the boathouse. Sunday through Friday in The Observer of­Housing and race committee assignments fices on the third floor of LaFortune Student for the women's championships will be given. Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to -The Observer publication. -The Observer 
Leaving school has neverbeen soeasy 
It's not surprising that so many students move with Ryder. 
We've got sturdy, dependable trucks in all sizes. Many an~ automatics, with fY)\\"er steering, air conditioning, and FM on top of the AM. Plus, Hyder can help out with boxes, hand trucks, even moving tips. 
And we're easy on the wallet, too 

-~ --~ 

Flames sweep Los Angeles, Blackhawks beat St. Louis 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO--Steve Larmer scored on a rebound with 4: 19 to play Monday night and give Chicago a 3-2 victory over the St. Louis Blues and bring the Blackhawks within one game of the Norris Division title. 
Chicago leads the best-of­seven series 3-1 with Game five set for Wednesday night in St. Louis. 
Larmer converted the rebound of Dave Manson's slap shot from the point on a power play to give the Blackhawks, the team with the worst record of the 16 playoff participants, the lead for the first time in the game. 
Chicago's Keith Brown was called for holding with 4:05 to play but the Blues were unable to convert on the power play and the Blackhawks held off a final surge in the last minute when St. Louis pulled goaltender Greg Millen. 
St. Louis made it 2-1 midway through the second period on a 3-on-2 break by Bernie Federko, Brett Hull and Peter Zezel. Federko passed to Hull, who shot it across to the left side to Zezel, who fed it back to Federko waiting in front of the net. 
Federko shoveled the puck in the right side while goaltender Alain Chevrier, expecting a shot from Zezel, was guarding the left side. 
But Chicago, which had six power plays but scored only on the last one, tied it again at 15:45, when Bob Bassen passed to Keith Brown at the right point. Brown fired a slap shot that deflected off two St. Louis players before hitting the left post and bouncing in. 
Despite some early shaki­ness, Chevrier continued his outstanding play for the Black-hawks, stopping 25 shots, including a save on a breakaway by Hull. 
Flames 5, Kings 3 
INGLEWOOD, Calif.--Joe Mullen scored two goals as the Calgary Flames won 5-3 Mon­day night and swept the Smythe Division finals from the Los Angeles Kings and Wayne Gretzky, who became the all-time NHL playoff goal­scoring leader. ­
The Flames, w~o had the NHL's best record m the reg~­lar season, earned a ber~h m the Campbell Conference fmals against either Chicago or St. Louis. Chicago defeated ~t. Louis 3-2 and leads the senes 3-1. . 
Mullen . scored h~s sec~nd goal 4:59 mt? the third penod from 25 feet m front of the slot on a pass from Doug Gilmour to give the Flames a 4-2 lead. 
But defenseman Steve Due­hesne kept the Kings in it with his second score of the night, a 
_power play goal at 9:41 of the third on which Gretzky made his second assist of the game. 
Gary Roberts closed the door on the Kings by scoring an empty-net goal with three seconds remaining. 
''No matter how bad they are, Grandma loves to hear the latest jokes.'' 
Heck's desires draw attention in Seattle 
Associated Press 
KIRKLAND, Wash.-­Seattle Seahawks' first­round draft choice Andy Heck, an offensive tackle from Notre Dame, says it may be time for offensive linemen in the NFL to get paid as much as the players they're supposed to block. 
But the second offensive lineman taken in the draft says he's not going to echo the salary noises being made by the first one picked, Tony Mandarich, an offen­sive tackle who has said he wants to make more money than UCLA quarterback Troy Aikman. 
Aikman was the first player taken in the draft. Mandarich was the second. 
"I really don't know that much about what the salary structure is like, what offen­sive linemen make or have made or should make," Heck said Monday. "I'm 
You miss her sparkling sense of humor. She misses you and your jokes. Even the bad ones. That's one good reason to cal! long distance. AT&T Long Distance Service is another good reason. Be­cause it costs less than vou think to hear your grand­mother start to giggle be­fore you even get to the punch line. 
So \vhenever vou miss her laughter, bring' a smile to her face \Vith AT&T. Reach 
outandtouchsorneone~ 
If you'd like to know more ahc)ut AT&T products and setTices, like the AT&T Card, call us at 1 800 222-0300. 

AT&T 
The right choice. 
just going to leave that up to the guy who is going to rep­resent me." 
Heck, the 15th player cho­sen overall Sunday, said, "I just want what's fair. really have no idea what that is. Right now, I haven't even given it that much thought. 
Green Bay selected the 6­foot-6, 315-pound Mandarich in the first round after Dal­las went for Aikman with the No. 1 selection. Aikman signed a six-year, $11.037 million contract. · 
"Something I would think about that would make sense to me is defensive linemen, outside backers, rush guys are generally paid a little bit more than offensive linemen," he said. "You think an offensive lineman is expected to play at the same level as he is and block that guy, maybe he should be paid at the same level. 
Indiana's Edwards indicted 
A_ssociated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-­Beleaguered former Indiana University basketball star Jay Edwards was charged Monday with two preliminary mis­demeanor battery charges for an alleged attack on a woman at a Bloomington apartment. 
Beth Ann Irish, 20, of In­dianapolis told Bloomington police Edwards slapped her twice and punched her at a party Saturday night at Jack­son Heights apartments. A doc­tor's report said Ms. Irish suf­fered a bruised forehead. 
Edwards admitted slapping Ms. Irish once, but said she had rushed him. 
"It's going to hurt me, more bad publicity," Edwards said. "I'm going to get out of In­diana, period." 
Edwards was named in an arrest warrant issued Monday by Monroe Superior Court Judge Douglas Bridges. Bond was set at $500. 
Edwards, contacted in Marion at the home of his mot­her, Rosemary Edwards, said he first met Ms. Irish on Sat­urday at the apartment of In­diana teammate Lyndon Jones. 
"I don't know if she was drunk or something, but she rushed me. I just slapped her once and that was it. They pulled her off of me, and that was it. The next thing you know, I come home and it's all over TV," he said. 
Mrs. Edwards said she planned to hire an attorney and that she and her son would return to Bloomington to "clear this up." 
"It's all a frame-up," Mrs. Edwards said. "They were doing nothing but in Lyndon's apartment. There was five boys there. They're all wit­nesses." 
Edwards said Jones would corroborate his story. There was no answer at Jones' apart­ment Monday afternoon. 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, April 25, 1989 
Women's tennis falls short against Indiana 
By CHRIS COONEY ranked ninth in the nation, fell Sports Writer to Reece and partner Kelly Mulvihill 6-2, 6-1. The Reece­
The Notre Dame women's Mulvihill combination is the tennis team dropped its record second best collegiate doubles to 15-6 this weekend with a 9-0 pair in the United States. loss to Big Ten powerhouse In­"I felt our doubles teams diana last Saturday in played relatively well," ex­Bloomington. plained Gelfman, "but Indiana 
The Irish were unable to win had less unforced errors and even a set against the eighth­great strategy. Their team ranked Hoosiers who boast five played consistent, solid ten­players ranked in the top 75. nis." Katie Clark came the closest The meet showed Notre at number three singles, chal­Dame the type of play required lenging Stephanie Reece in order to be competitive with before falling 7-5, 6-4. Reece is nationally-ranked teams. Next No. 35 on the collegiate charts. year the Irish may upgrade 
"I thought we played as well their schedule to include as as could be expected," com­many as 12 of the top 20 teams mented Notre Dame head co­in the United States. ach Michele Gelfman. "We Gelfman feels her team has would have been lucky just to made steady progress towards take a match or two, but we becoming a national con­couldn't close it out." tender. 
Gelfman praised Clark for taking advantage of an injured "If we had played all teams Reece. like Indiana, we would have 
"Katie played an excellent gotten frustrated at losing," match but couldn't come up said Gelfman. "Overall, we've with the victory," said had an excellent season, Gelfman. "It seemed like IU beating many teams we had had no problem coming up with consistently lost to." the big points when they needed them. They're not eighth in the Gelfman added that her country for nothing." team, now on par with most of 
In the rest of the matches, no the Big Ten schools, will have Irish player could muster more to add more scholarship than four games from the op­players if they want to reach ponents. At the number one Indiana's level. doubles position, CeCe Cahill "We'll get there," Gelfman and Tracy Barton, currently said. 
Peet1e leads all 2nd-~day letdowns 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--For Rodney Peete, the quick pick came a day too late. 
The Reisman Trophy run­nerup from Southern Califor­nia was the second player taken Monday in the NFL draft--on the second day. 
Peete expected to go in the first two rounds of the draft on Sunday. Instead, he watched seven quarterbacks taken ahead of him and lamented: ''A day that was supposed to be one of the most exciting days of my life turned out to be the most devastating." 
But when the draft resumed Monday, he was the second player taken--albeit in the sixth round, chosen by the Detroit 

. Lions one pick after the Los An­geles Raiders had taken an­other quarterback, Jeff Francis of Tennessee. That made Peete the ninth quarterback to go al­though some scouting books had him rated second behind Troy Aikman, the top overall pick. "I went -from devastated to disappointed," said Peete, who may have lost $800,000 over four years by going from the second round to the sixth, one agent estimated. Peete's selection came on a day when teams began their annual search for sleepers after taking most of the blue­chip players in the first few rounds. In other words, it was a day for question marks and kick­ers, like Chris Jacke of Texas­El Paso, taken by Green Bay on the sixth round; Pete Stoyanovich, a one-time All­America soccer· player from Indiana, taken by Miami on the seventh, and Kendall Trainor 
of Arkansas, on the ninth by the Cardinals, who have spent a de­cade looking for someone reli­able to put the ball through the uprights. 
Also among those chosen was Byron Sanders of Northwes­tern, who was taken by Chicago on the ninth round. He is the older brother of Barry Sanders, the Reisman Trophy winner from Oklahoma State who was the third player taken--by Detroit--in the first round. 
The last player taken, by Minnesota, when the draft ended at 5:17 EDT after 16 hours and 56 minutes over two days was wide receiver Everett Ross of Ohio State, who was academically ineligible last year. 
Seattle used its lOth round pick on Derrick Fenner, a former North Carolina running back who led the Atlantic Coast Conference in rushing in 1986 but was charged with murder in Maryland a year later in what police said was a drug­related shooting death of a 19­year-old man. 
In November 1987, murder charges were dropped for in­sufficient evidence and he eventually pleaded guilty to one count of cocaine posses­sion. 
And Detroit took Jason Phil­lips of Houston, leading receiver in college football last season, with the second pick of the lOth round. 
Denver, meanwhile, took Melvin Bratton, former Uni­versity of Miami fullback who suffered a severe knee injury two years ago. 
Considered before the injury a possible first-round choice, Bratton was taken by the Miami Dolphins on the sixth round a year ago. 

Booksto1re: 32 and counting 
4'24's Results Stepan 5 
4'25's Games 

Stepan 1 4:00-Corporate Raiders over 4 Guys Who Like 
4:00-Rodan, Sky, & 3 others ... over Girls and a Dillonite by 7 Groundkeepers of Busch Gardens by 12 4:45-Murphy's Men over The Mephistophelian 4:45-One Jerk Too Many! over 5 Guys Who Get Meatuses by 12 
Their Dates Drunk by 2 ~~30-No "I" in Team over The Faculty Jokes by 
5:30-Unseeded Fertilizer over Naked Gunners b)' 2 6:15-Jerry's Kids over 4 Troopers and a Hairless 6:15-Bennitts Buffet over Digger Stiffed Me A Tip Wonder by 7 
by 6 Stepan 6 
Stepan 2 
4:00-4 Men and a Red-Headed Stepchild over 4:00-Khomeni's Bounty Hunters over 2 
Duck and the Dongs by 8 Third-Stringers by 10 
4:45-Adwork's All Stars over Flipper and the 4:45-As Salaam Alaikum over Sriarh by 5 
Undertows by 12 · 5:30-Touch-n-Go over Dick Vitale, Dick Enberg, 
5:30-MBA's over It's All About Dissin' Cous by 3 
Digger Phelps & 2 others by 9 
6:15-Air Check and Ground Support over CJ's 6:15-Rubber Cememt over Shooting Blanks by 7 
Pub by 3 Stepan 3 Bookstore 94:00-Clockwork Orange over Get Off Our Tips b)' 4:00-Murphy's Bar over The Brickmason by 8 
5 
4:45-Nice but Nasty over Gurus by 34:45-Lenny's American Grill over Medicine in 5:30-All the President's Men over Fire One by 13Motion and.. by 3 6:15· Killer Bees over Rainmakers by 2
5:30-Coach's over Mother Goose by 8 6:15-Swishkabob over The Big Dudes by 8 Bookstore 10 
Stepan 4 4:00-Fugitive Guys Finale over Chestnut Mousse 4:00-Malicious Prostitution over Tectles and 4 Lightning by 13 Rips by 9 4:45-Train and The Fuzzbusters over Hoopslers 4:45-The Cotton Club over The Fellas by 7 from Hell by 18 5:30-Gauchos over Kent's Getting Married by 8 5:30-Minahoonies over Whiskey Richard by 3 6:15-The Good, The Bad, and The Laundry over 6:15-Eddie and the Cruisers over Smell the Small But Huge by 6 Glove by 4 
Rugby C~lub ends 
I I
1mpress1\1e season 
The Rugby Club defeated a very tough Northwestern squad Saturday in easy fashion. The A side won 9-6, while the B side dominated 28-6. Northwestern, which was the Chicago area champion, could not hold up to the team­oriented play of the Irish. 
Greg Scheckenbach 
Club Corner 
"Lately, everyone has been playing very well," said club president Jim Lammers. "We don't have' one good player, but many players who are a good team." 
Earlier in the spring season, Notre Dame lost a tight match to Bowling Green in what turned out to be its toughest match of the season. Bowling Green was the top-ranked team in the Midwest, where Notre Dame was not even ranked. The Irish nearly duplicated the David and Goliath story, but came up one point short in their upset try against the Ohio state champions. 
Also in the spring season, Notre Dame played sixth­ranked Purdue. The Irish WE!re successful in taking away the state championship from the Boilermakers in another close match, 11-10. By beating Purdue, Notre Dame can claim the unofficial state championship of Indiana. 
With its performance this year, Notre Dame should be ranked at the beginning of next year. Although the Irish are losing 12 seniors, next year should be nearly as suc­cessful. 
"Since juniors make up most of the second team, we should do very well next year," said Lammers. 
This Saturday, Notre Dame will take on Michigan State, which is ranked eighth, at 1 p.m. behind Stepan Center. This is the last match of the season for the Irish and it will decide whether they have a winning season or not. 
The Squash Club recently had an INSILCO tournament at the D level in which ten pE~ople participated. The tourn­ament, which used to be a qualifying round for higher tour­naments, was held just to see who would have had a chance to compete at higher levels. In the finals, Markus Knipp beat Steve Guthrie in what was the last match of the year. 
The Crew Club will be travelling to the University of Wis­consin on Saturday, April 29 to participate in the Midwest Sprints. It will be the final race in the club's season. 
According to club president Brian Lapps, virtually all teams in the Midwest will be there. 

is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Ad Designers 
For more infonnation, contact Shannon Roach at 2:83-2608 or 239-5303 
Stepan 1 4:00-Rodan, Shy, and 3 others..vs_ One Jerk Too 
Many! 4:45-Unseeded Fertilizer vs. Bennitt's Bullet. 5:30-Khomeni's Bounty Hunters vs. As -Salaam 
-Aiaikum 6:15-Touch-n-go vs. Rubber Cement 
Stepan 2 4:00-Murphy's Bar vs. Nice But Nasty 4:45-Fugitive Guys Finale vs. Train and the Fuzzbusters 5:30-All the President's Men Ill vs. Killer Bees 6:15-Minahoonies vs. Eddie & the Cruisers 
Stepan 5 4:00-Clockwork Orange vs. Lenny's American Grill 4:45-Malicious Prostitution vs. The Cotton Club 5:30-Coach's vs. Swishkabob 6:15-Gauchos vs. The Good, The Bad, and the Laundry 
Stepan 6 4:00-Corporate Raiders vs. The Mephitophelian 4:45-4 Men and a Red-Headed ... vs. Adwork's All Stars 5:30-No "I" in Team vs. Jerry's Kids 6:15-MBA's vs. Air Chek & Ground Support 
The Observer 


page 15 

CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

BLOOM COUNTY BERKE BREATHED 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
9 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance," Annenberg Auditorium. 
10 p.m. Campus Ministry workshop for next fall's Eucharistic Ministers, Sacred Heart Church. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
10:30 a.m. Catholic Social Teachings symposium presents Ted Weber, Emory University, CCE. 
Noon Kellogg Institute brown bag lecture ''Structural Reform 
of Enterprises: Process of Privatization in China?" by Gao 
Xian, Room 131 Decio. 
2 p.m. "Managerial Responsibility and Socio-Economic Sys­tems: Assessing the Papal Encyclicals," by James Post, Bos­ton University, CCE. 
2:30 p.m. "Catholic Social Teaching and the Multinational Manager," by Lee Tavis, Notre Dame, CCE. 
3:30 
p.m. Catholic Social Teachings symposium presents Mi­chael Novak, American Enterprise Institute, CCE. 

3:30 
p.m. Chemical Engineering lecture "Organometallic Chemical Vapor Deposition of Metal Oxide Thin Films," by Glen Shrader, Iowa State, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 


4 p.m. "The Economics Encyclicals of Pope John Paul II: Theological and Economic Perspectives," by Philip Wogaman, Wesley Theological Seminary, CCE. 
4:15p.m. Reilly Center lecture "Reverse Engineering of the Nervous System: Brains and Computers," by James Bower, California Institute of Technology, Room 131 Decio. 
7:30 p.m. Catholic Social Teachings symposium presents Preston Williams, Harvard Divinity School, CCE. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Bacon & Mushroom Sandwich Baked Chicken Roast Turkey Breast Beef Burgundy Cajun Scrod Elegant Rice Stuffed Shells Deli Bar 
COMICS 
47 Voice of Mr. Magoo 50 Scheme 51 Bullfight cry 54 Muslim priest 
55 Husband of Joanne Woodward 
58 Second Greek letter 59 Regarding 60 Friars Club speciality 61 Privy to 62 Not one, in Dog patch 63 Feeling 
DOWN 1 Does a lawn job 2 Eileen Farrell offering 3 -contendere 4 Photog's product 5 "Babes in-," 
V. Herbert operetta 6 Fingerprint ridge 7 Kind of run 8 Author Levin 9 Pear-shaped instrument 10 Perkins role in 
"Psycho" 11 Iris part 
47 Actress Andersson 48TVsitcom 49 Roman statesman 50 Feline sound 51 Where Matrah is 52 Girl 53 Grafted: Her. 56 Santa--, Calif. 57 Calamity 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BLOOM COUNTY 
'<O\l CC\JU>'~£ BEEN Rt.J>...D'i OK TIME: ANO 1-\f...O ~ll ~()I)R 
1\\INGS 1068\-\ER, B\)T 'iOIJ 
F\JT IJP t>. f\JSS PoBO\JT 001t-1(; I 
M~O£. US Lt>.TE, f>INO 'lOU 
FORGOT 'IOOR TIGER. IT'S 
~CUR OWN ~f..IJLI. 


BILL WA HERSON 
BERKE BREATHED 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

ON£. CF NAJ\JRES 
t'ICST 1'£CIJL\~R.­~lNG CR£1\1\JR£5, 11-\E G\RAF~ 1':> ~IOOE.L'( Sl.l\TED 
lO 11"5 ffi~\la:>NMENT 
../ 
Cl1989 Unrverut Press Syndicale 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATTERSON 
•, 


ACROSS 1 "The Fifer" painter 6 Impulsive idea 10 Unfeeling 14 Site of U. of Maine 151sraeli dance 16 Ellipse 17 Lee J. Cobb role 19 Descartes 20-Paulo, Brazil 21 Learning 22 Exact 24 Frenchman 25 Caffein-rich nut 26 Attach 29 Tailor's chore 

33 Swing 34 City SSE of 
Sacramento 35 Smudge 36 Prong 37 " ... inhumanity 
-":Burns 38 Soprano Gluck 39 Chinese nurse 40Actorwho 
married Shirley Temple 41 Precipitous 42 Kin 44 Actor in "Skylark" 45 Coolidge and golfer Peete 46 Pasha and Baba 
12 Author of "The Magic Mountain" 
13 Ran, as madras 18 Earsplitting 23 Actor Wallach 24 He portrayed 
Popeye Doyle 25 Furniture wood 26 Fragrance 27 Principal 28 Kind of colony 29 Actress Ruth 30 Danube feeder 31 Spiritual force 32 Wine source 34 Identifying 
symbols · 37 Slump 
41 Black eyes 
43 Sigma follower 
44 Actor Arkin 
46 Kirstie of 
"Cheers" 


Sports 
Tuesday, April 25, 1989 

Bookstore action surprises 
Three upsets occur on Monday, field reduced to 32 
By FRANK PASTOR Bookstore tournament two The Mephistophelian Assistant Sports Editor years ago when they reached Meatuses were granted a vic­the round of 64 before losing to tory by forfeit and will continue 
There must be something eventual champion, The Brot­play in the tournament. 
special about reaching hers of Manhood. The Brothers Gauchos, a team made up of 
Bookstore Basketball's round of Manhood boasted varsity Stanford freshmen, soundly 
of 32. It brings out the best in athletes Tim Brown, Donald defeated Kent's Getting 
some participants and the Royal and Joel Williams on Married 21-13 in a game 
worst in others, as evidenced their roster. marred by several fights. Jerry 
by Monday's events. MBA's sho~ked All About Rullo shot 10-of-17 from the 
Killer Bees, a team com­Dissin' Cous 21-18 in the second field to lead Gauchos. posed entirely of law students, upset of the day, despite 10-of-"My fellow teammates set rallied from a 20-18. deficit to 18 shooting by Todd Lyght in awesome picks for me and left upset the highly-regarded the losing effort. Unseeded me wide open," said Rullo. Rainmakers 22-20 to advance to Fertilizers also beat the odds "Plus, the more shots I made, the round of 32 Monday in in exposing Naked Gunners 22-the more the crowd got into the Bookstore Basketball XVIII. 20 behind Mike Lakey's nine game and that gave me confi­Todd Leeson, who scored six baskets. dence." points in the contest, converted Murphy's Men learned Mon­Unfortunately, the crowd a steal into a layup to tie the day that it was disqualified played more than a support score at 20 before his team took from the tournament for using role in the contest. With the control. an illegal player. George -Gauchos clinging to a 6-4 lead 
"We didn't give up," said Ritchey, who scored nine early in the first half, Kent Mike Luzum, who also contrib­points in Murphy's Men's 21-10 Graham set a pick on an oppos­uted six baskets. "We were victory over The Mephistop­ing player. Pushing and able to hold them helian Meatuses, was ruled in­shoving ensued, precipitating a (Rainmakers) to one shot each eligible by the Bookstore com­melee in which fans stormed time down the court the whole mittee when it was determined the Stepan 4 court. second half." he had played for another team 
Killer Bees last played in the earlier in the tournament. see UPSET I page 11 
By STEVE MEGARGEE combine never got selected. Associate Sports Editor Streeter knew he would go either to the Bears or the Los 
Mter spending a lot of anx­Angeles Raiders. ious moments during the past "A lot of teams talked to me, two days, George Streeter but they were the most inter­received the ultimate reward ested," said Streeter, who for his patience. played more minutes than any 
The Notre Dame strong other Notre Dame defensive safety, who expected to go in player last fall. "As it got later the fifth or sixth round of the and later in rounds, I knew I NFL draft, did not hear anyth­wasn't going to the Raiders be­ing until the 11th and next-to­cause they didn't have any late­last round of the draft. But round picks and the Bears had when the call finally came, the a lot." Chicago native learned he would return home as a mem­ber of the Bears. 
"This is the place I wanted to play," said the 6-2, 212­pounder. "This is a team that's definitely going to be in the playoffs the next few years and probably in the Super Bowl for 
_a couple of those years." 
Linebacker Wes Pritchett, who led the Irish with 117 tackles last season, went to the Miami Dolphins in the sixth round as the NFL draft closed 
Freshman Mike Sullivan (right) and the Notre Dame offense were unable to drive effectively to the 
Monday. 
George Streeter 

cage against Ohio Wesleyan on Saturday. Tomorrow the Irish will take to the road to battle Michigan In Sunday's draft selectionsState. 
of Notre Dame players, Seattle The selection by the Bears took Andy Heck in the first still came as a present surprise round, the Los Angeles Rams to Streeter's mother.
Lacrosse falls to Ohio Wesleyan, 
chose Frank Starns in the "My mother was in tears," second round, and the Bears said the graduate of the Public picked Mark Green in the fifth League's Chicago Julian High
prepares to battle Michigan State 
round in Sunday's draft selec­School. "She kind of thought 
tions of Notre Dame players. that I'd end up in California,By PETE LaFLEUR Spartans went on to capture very good shot to go to the Chicago's selection of and at first it worried here. I've Sports Writer the western bid that year. NCAA's." Streeter ended a puzzling two got a few friends in Chicago,
But the Irish are entering The Irish are in the NCAA days for the Notre Dame defen­and they are quite happy today. 
The Notre Dame lacrosse this game with a different at­tournament "driver's seat" sive back. By Monday after­"They told me, 'Hey, we're 
team looks to forget Satur­titiude than in 1987, accor­largely due to a March 29 noon, Streeter wondered whe­not drafting you to be a token.
day's 18-5 to Ohio Wesleyan ding to senior tri-captain win over Air Force that ther he would ever receive the We're expecting you to contrib­as they travel to East Lan­
John Olmstead. launched the team on a all-important telephone call. ute,' " said Streeter. "They'resing, Michigan today for a seven-game winning-streak. "The whole draft was pretty one of the most physical teams game with Michigan State "When we played them Michigan State, meanwhile, weird and what I'm finding out in the league. The style of playWednesday. two years ago, we had the has likewise beat the Fal­is there were a few teams with­I have is conducive to the 
.· The NCAA. tournament's attitude that we would cons, but the Spartans have holding information from me," Bears, and they don't have western bid will be on the simply go up there and win. also lost to Kenyon and said Streeter. "There weren't many defensive backs." 
line as the Irish (7-4) at­Basically we took for 
Denison, both teams that the too many safeties drafted. Chicago had stressed its need 
tempt to improve on their 8-2 granted the importance of There were quite a few corner­
Irish beat. for defensive backs before the series advantage over the the game," Olmstead said. The Irish beat Michigan backs, but not a lot of safeties." draft. The Bears chose Clem­Spartans (5-5). Michigan "But now we know what State 10-7 at Loftus Sports In this "weird" draft, as son cornerback Donnell Wool­
State routed Notre Dame 16­

type of team they have and Center last season but Streeter termed it, some ford in the first round, but the5 in East Lansing two years we know it won't be easy. shared the league title with players who ranked ahead of only safety they took before ago under similar tourna­But we also know that if we 
Notre Dame's two-year starter Streeter was fourth-round pick ment circumstances. The win this game we have a see IRISH I page 11 in last month's NFL scouting Markus Paul of Syracuse. 
The Observer I Trey Raymond Bookstore Basketball XVIII entered into the final 64 on Monday, with all 32 teams battling it out for the more exclusive spots. 
Streeter, Pritchett go in 2nd-day draft 





