----------~----------------------------------~--------~--------------------------------------~--------------, 

Almost spring
Ietc. Music Review 
Sunny today and warmer. 
High near 30. Partly cloudy 
tonight and Saturday. Low 20 
to 25. High in the mid 30s.

IVIEWPOINT: A shameful campaign 
J4o1P...£ DAM! 
toLLECTIOJj. 

VOL. XXII, N0.84 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1989 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Three campus buildings slated to be built by 1991 
By NATASHA WILSON donor for the band building and Senior Staff Reporter until one is found it will be built with University funds," said 
Notre Dame plans to build Richard Conklin, assistant vice three new buildings on campus president of University rela­within the next two years, ac­tions. cording to University officials. The single-story facility In the works are a new ROTC spanning 25,000 gross square building, a band practice feet will contain a main rehear­facility, and a complex for the sal room with a band shell Hesburgh Institute for Interna­shaped ceiling. This room and tional Peace Studies. the two other rehearsal areas, 
The University presented the for the ensembles and jazz em­Casteel Construction Company sembles, will have separate of South Bend with the contract heating and cooling systems for the three new buildings. and sound proof walls for Casteel built Knott and acoustical purposes. Siegfried Halls and the Snite Student musicians will have Museum of Art. access to instrument lockers 
Casteel is currently laying which will surround the prac­the foundations for the new tice rooms. A large storage band building on University­room will house band uniforms owned land east of Juniper and additional instruments. Road and west of the Loftus The plans for the facility also Sports Center. include an outdoor patio and 
The band practice facility, to garden area as well as office be completed by March 1, 1990, space for band directors and of­will provide rehearsal space ficials. for not only the 226-member Construction on the ROTC Notre Dame marching band building will begin at the end but also for the 60-member con­of this month, Dedrick said. cert band, the three smaller The site for this facility is west varsity bands, two jazz bands, of the new band building. and the woodwind, brass and The new building faced in other ensembles. limestone and Notre Dame 
The total budget for the band brick will replace the 1943 pink building project will be approx­building near St. Mary's Lake imately $3.5 million, according as the home of the Notre Dame to Donald Dedrick, director of Air Force, Army and Navy the physical plant. 
see BUILD, page 6
"We are still looking for a 



HESBUMii PEACE 
II'ISTITUTE 
CLASSROOM 
BUIL.OII"C. 

PROPOSED 
ACADEMIc. MALL..
. 
-!'OSSIBLE SITE oF: 
PER.FOR.MIN(, ~RTS 
('.E'-JTEII. 


New 'Initiative' report will address problems of off-campus students 
By SHANNON RYAN crime, student-police relations, will be selected by committee News Staff transportation and information Chairman Heather Breiter, a dissemination. senior. The committee will so­
Student government will sub­"We expect this to be an all­licit student input through a mit a report concerning the encompassing, powerful report questionnaire before meeting problems of off-campus living that will tackle the issue of with Student Mfairs. to the Board of Trustees in late crime especially hard. We are "The Board of Trustees is our April. in search of recommendations most important vehicle of com­
"The report is going to deal for a better life. We want to find munication. If they agree that with the Notre Dame student out what the administration what we are saying is impor­in South Bend," said Mike can do to better support off­tant, they will endorse our Paese, student body vice­campus students and what the report and put pressure on the president. "We will discuss the individual student's responsi­administration to act," Paese quality of housing and other is­bilities are," said Paese. said. sues relative to off-campus stu­An ad hoc committee consist­
see OC, page 6

dent life." Such issues include ing of ten to twelve students 
Rise in dorm costs expected for '89 
By DAN MURPHY the normal inflation increase." dergraduate and 2027 graduate Senior Staff Reporter The Department of Business students live off-campus this Mfairs considers $3,075 as the year, according to Elizabeth The cost of living on campus average cost of living on Whaszczuki of the Notre Dame will probably rise by at least campus for the 1988-89 aca­Department of Student five or six percent next year, demic year, said Lyphout. This Residences. Turtle Creek said James Lyphout, Assistant figure includes the price of Apartments, Notre Dame Ave­Vice President for Business M­meals and laundry. A 21 meal nue Apartments and Campus fairs. plan costs $887.50 per semester View Apartments are most 
The Notre Dame Board of this year, and laundry service popular among students who Trustees will meet next week at St. Michael's Laundry costs choose to live "O.C." to discuss a proposed budget $50.00 per semester. "It's wonderful to find out 
The Observer I Mike Ury and address student housing Local apartment complexes women don't turn into costs for next year, according and houses offer an alternative pumpkins after 2:00 a.m.,"
Sophomore Pat "The Man Who Could Eat Anything on Tissue Paper" 
to Lyphout. He said he antici­to living on campus and paying said Chris Brown, a senior who 
Egan swallows flaming tissue paper during Flanner Hall's Talent Show 
pates an increase and expects housing costs determined by 
see COST, page 8

Thursday. His friend, senior Andy Carr, prepared tissues for him to eat. "it won't be too much beyond the University. About 1414 un­

page 2 The Observer Friday, February 10, 1989 
IN BRIEF 
Saint Mary's senior Kelly Glavin was admitted Thursday afternoon to Memorial Hospital and was in serious condition, Director of Student Activities Mary Smith said Thursday night. Glavin, social commissioner of the Senior Board, was taken to the hospital after a doctor's appointment but not as an emergency patient, Smith said. Further details were unavailable.-The Obser­ver 
The United Way Campaign overcame a loss and topped $3.35 million in a record setting effort. University Executive Vice President Father William Beauchamp, the 1988 United Way general campaign chairman, reported that $3,350,263 was raised in this year's effort, the most ever raised by the United Way in St. Joseph County. Beau­champ praised the campaign leadership, as well as the more than 2000 campaign volunteers for overcoming a stunning 10 percent loss of the total campaign dollar base due to plant closings, layoffs, and the growing trend in non-local ownership of area business. The record amount represented a 4 percent increase over last year, but in­cluded a 14 percent increase in new funds to offset the 10 percent loss. 
-The Observer 
Michael J. Fox received 5,000 threatening letters from a woman who was upset he got married. Tina Marie Led­better, 26, was arrested in Westlake Village last week, but was released after posting $100,000 bail, and faces a pos­sible charge of making terrorist threats, officials said. Fox began receiving unsigned letters last February and they continued after his marriage, said Al Albergate, spokesman for the Los Angeles County district attorney's office. -Associated Press 

Louisiana Gov. Buddy Roemer can rest assured that New Orleans tow truck drivers know their job. Mter all, they impounded his car. While the governor was in meetings Wednesday at the World Trade Center complex in the city's business district, parking officials towed his car, which was parked in a taxi zone. The car was im­pounded at about 1 p.m., but the governor's staff had it back before he left two hours later. -Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
Logan Center Council for the Retarded is having a Valentine's Dance today from 7:30 to 10:00 p.m. Van pickup at Saint Mary's at 6:45 and 7:10p.m. in front of Holy Cross Hall, and at Notre Dame at 6:55 and 7:20p.m. at the Main Circle. Questions, call Karen 283-4950. -The Observer 
Freshman and Transfer Orientation applications are now available in the student government office on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center. -The Ob­server 

Basketball tickets are needed for children who live at the Family and Children's Center. If you can donate your tickets for the USC game this Saturday, please bring them to the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
Delign Editor ___ -------·---·Laura Stanton Delign A11utcnt _____ ....... Janice O'Leary TIIP"•etter•--------·---______ Molly Schwartz ............................................ Dan Towers New• Editor......----------------Collen Cronin COJlll Editor---------------------Kelley Tuthill Sporto COJlll Editor............ Frank Pastor Viewpoint L<111out ----------Heidi Ho M011ier Etc. Editor----··------··········--·--John Blasi Etc. COJlll Editor ................. Mike Restle Etc. Deoigner......... . ------Tim Irvine Typi&t•·-------------_----------Sue Barton 
--··-······························-·---····Rosi Lozada 
ND Day Editor-·--------------Betsy Mennell SMC Doy Editor.. --Alisca Murphy
Photographer __________________________ Mike Ury 
Tile o..n.r (USPS 599 2~) is published Monday throqh Friday exgept c1uriJ1a cum aDd vacatioa periods. Tile Olllerwr is published by tbc students or tbc Uaivmity of Notre DuDe aDd Saint Mary's Collqc. Sublc:ripejoas may be purcbu­ed ror S40 per year (U5 per scmatcr) by writina 111t Ollllner, P.O. Box Q, Notre DuDe. ladiaaa 46556. 
Tile o..n.r is a member of Tile ~... Pn-. All rcproduc:tioll riahts ere 
racrved. 

INSIDE COLUMN 




Top 40 proves we're trapped in the '70s 
It will take a minor miracle for anything to replace the 1970s as the worst decade in the history of pop culture. 
But the 1980s certainly seem to be making a late charge in hopes of overtaking the decade that brought us disco, the leisure suit and pet rocks. 
How else can anyone explain what's been going on in the Top 40 lately? Two of the most recent songs to hit the number-one spot are perfect examples of what's wrong with the world today. 
First, Will to Power reaches the top of the charts by using the strategy Stars on 45 started years ago, recording a medley that remakes two old classics. 
This male-female duo had the audacity to remake Peter Frampton's "Baby I Love Your Way" and Lynyrd Skynyrd's "Freebird," and call it the "Freebird Medley." It's bad enough for someone to make a medley of two songs that have nothing to do with each other (except that they're both thousands of times better than anything Will to Power could ever dream of recording). 
But if the idea is bad, the record is worse. The female lead singer wails the lyrics away, with the guy banging out a Casio in the back­ground. Of course, this song has done better on the charts than either the original "Baby I Love Your Way" or "Freebird." So much for justice. 
By contrast, the current number-one song is harmless. It's an innocuous little ballad titled "When I'm With You," by a band called Sheriff. 
Nothing wrong with liking this song, eh? Think again. 
"When I'm With You" originally came out in 1977 and didn't make much of a dent on the charts. It came out in 1988, and reaches number one. Before this song got re-released a couple of months ago, you probably could find Sheriff albums for $1.99 at your favorite local record cutout stand. 
I used to love making fun of the records that came out around the late 1970s. This Sheriff saga has given me a new outlook on things. 
When the pop music competition included giants like Shaun Cassidy, the Baby's, Dan "Sometimes When We Touch" Hill, Player, the Bee Gees, Leif Garrett, the Village People and of course, the late great Andy Gibb, Sheriff never had a chance of receiving airplay. 
But in the age of Will to Power, a disc jockey can dust off any song that wasn't good enough for the '70s, put it on the turntable, and you've got a hit on your hands. 

Steve Megargee 
Assistant Sports Editor 

If this doesn't scare you enough, the news gets worse. The Will to Power remake of '70s songs and the resurrection of-"When I'm With You" may just be the start of things to come. 
You've got it--a '70's nostalgia craze. 
"I'm convinced the 1970s are going to be the next big thing," San Diego disc jockey Jason Garret told the Chicago Tribune last month. "Disco's on the comeback trail for sure." 

On the comeback trail? Anyone who's had to listen to hit songs by such non-talents as Paula Abdul, Samantha Fox, Taylor Dayne and Pebbles can attest that disco's been back for quite a while. 
These singers even make one almost wistfully long for the days of KC and the Sunshine Band. Of course, maybe I'm giving that band an early euology. 
"If KC and the Sunshine Band got back to­gether, and put out another album, it would sell millions of copies," Garret also said in the Tribune article. 
Heck, why not? It sure worked well with Sheriff, didn't it? 



=Ihe-=-Obset:Ver-_
--=== 

Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
News Editor Viewpoint Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Art Director Ad Design Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager Controller OTS Director 

A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Chris Donnelly by 5 p.m. Friday, February 10. 
Applications are still being accepted for the following position. No publication experience is necessary. 
Business Manager 
A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Chris Donnelly by 3 p.m. Tuesday, February 14. 
Friday, February 10, 1989 The Observer page 3 

New council hopes to improve campus events 
By BRADLEY GALKO main objectives: together." theme --as an example in "People come (to meetings) 
Staff Reporter •To coordinate a variety of In the letter, Reilly added which SUB and other campus as they need to come," said 
frequent campus events. that "common interests can be groups could pool their efforts. Reilly, adding that one of the 
The Student Union Board has •To promote events. found early, and co-production The Communication Council council's objectives is "to
established a new Communica­•To produce quality events. of an event can be successful." meets on the first Thursday of make people aware (of the 
tion Council as an open forum "Let's talk about events Similiar events sponsored by each month, with a special council) ... so they know it's
for all campus groups, said before we do them so we can different organizations could meeting this month on Feb. 23 out there for them." 
SUB Board Manager Brian do the best that we can do," also be coordinated in this fas­at 5:30 p.m. in 222 Hayes­
The meetings discuss

Reilly, who co-founded the Reilly said of the councils' phi­hion, he said. Healy. 
"primarily intellectual or

council. losophy. Another benefit of the coun­Some of the groups that at­
issue-related events" and so­

In a letter to all campus By presenting ideas and fu­cil. he said, is that "SUB can tended the council's first 
cial events, Reilly wrote.

groups and organizations ture plans to the council, a be a resource for the groups. meeting two weeks ago in­
Reilly said the council is an "ef~ group or organization may We've got the people who are cluded representatives from Reilly said the SUB is inter­fort to bring coherency and "spark interest in other specialized (in programming the Center for Social Concerns ested in getting academic de­cooperation to campus events groups," said Reilly, "(so that) events)." He cited "umbrella and the Law School, dorm partments and faculty to par­and activities." everybody could do a little part weeks"--weeks sponsored by presidents, rectors and SUB ticipate. All campus groups are He said the council has three ... in bringing it (an event) all SUB which promote a common commissioners. welcome to attend, he said. 

Priest speaks on prayer and life 1n• Medjugorje 
By REGIS COCCIA Senior Staff Reporter 
A Holy Cross priest working in Medjugorje, Yugoslavia, a small village where six adoles­cents claim to have seen the Blessed Virgin Mary, visited Notre Dame Wednesday to relate his experiences. 
Father Louis Rink, who has been working with thousands of pilgrims in Medjugorje for the last five months, said the main message of the alleged appari­tions is prayer. 
Rink told a group in the Engineering Auditorium he was deeply impressed by the villagers in Medjugorje who devote more than four hours a day to prayer and Holy Mass, in addition to working long hours. 

Villagers and thousands of visitors pack Medjugorje's small St. James Church at 5 
p.m. to hear Mass, Rink said. Visiting clergy have included priests, bishops and cardinals, 

AP Photo
Mountain disaster 
On Wednesday a Boeing 707 crashed in Santa Maria, leaving a tattered wing section and an empty engine Azores, killing 137 passengers and seven crew shell. 
INTERNATIONAL PEACE AND UNITY A Concert by ChaulaThacker 
An Internationally Known and Gifted Dancer 
Along with Mark Laudeman and Katherine Larson 
Saturday 
PlACE:

February 11, 1989 Morris Civic 
TIME: Auditorium 7:30P.M. South Bend, Indiana 
Master of Ceremony 
Gail M. Martin TICKETS: $20.00 Reserved Call Morris Civic at (219) 284-9190 
Sponsored by:
"'' 
CALL ABOUT ND I SMC DISCOUNT! i ­
~ · 
"'-9: ~
fi
~•. o,."" 

1=======--MARDi-GRAsBALL-===:_-=:=-l
1 
sponsored by: ND Liturgical Chior 
ll FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10 9:00pm -1:OOam SOUTH DINING HALL 
I1 featuring 
Johnny Knorr and His Orchestra 
L___P~~n:~:~~~:~~~~-----_ 
he added. 
Millions of people from all over the world have visited Medjugorje since June 24, 1981, when six children reported seeing the Blessed Virgin. Four of them still report daily ap­paritions, though two no longer receive the visions. 
The Roman Catholic Church is investigating the appari­tions, but has not made any judgment on their authenticity. 
The Church has not forbid Cat­holics from visiting the site, which has become popular for Marian pilgrimages. 
"The greatest puzzle in the whole mystery of Medjugorje is the duration of Our Lady's visit," Rink said. "We can con­clude that Our Lady's reason for staying there is to teach the children to follow the gospel and pray, serving as examples for us." 
A group of young people in Medjugorje gather for several hours every Tuesday night to pray and reflect on Mary's messages to the visionaries, Rink said. 
Two girls named Jelena and Marijana, who lead the group, receive locutions or private revelations during prayer, Rink said. Neither girl receives apparitions, but the messages delivered in both the locutions and apparitions relate to prayer, he added. 
"It is significant that Our Lady (during Lent in 1984) in­vited all the parishioners through Jelena to read a pas­sage from Scripture in which Jesus says to trust in God's loving Providence," Rink said. 
"Mary told the children, 'Pray that the Holy Spirit may inspire you that you may pray more. Pray with peace in your heart."' 
Rink said he will return in a few weeks to Medjugorje, where he will stay to help min­ister to pilgrims. 

Seating arrangements for JPW are finalized 
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
Seating has been finalized for Junior Parents Weekend, with "everyone who showed to sign up for tables being ac­comodated," said JPW Chair­person Christine Boron. 
"Juniors will find out the ex­act location of their seats at registration this Monday and Tuesday," said Boron. After problems with inconsistent forms at first, the Executive Committee changed arrange­ments for seating at the event. According to the new plan, juniors planning to attend the event signed up at the Center for Continuing Education with the Executive and Sophomore Committees. "Those who did not show up with ID's were ramdomly seated," Boron said. 
The Executive Committee, comprised of 15 juniors, has been planning the event for months. They are expecting 4,158 people for the Saturday night dinner and 3,699 are ex­pected for the Sunday brunch. 
Each year seating arrange­ments for JPW varies and, "the committee has yet to find the perfect system," said Boron. "JPW is often likened to graduation and seating is often the biggest hassle." 

Students: $6 .0(}'J>erson $lO.OOicouple 

PRIME RIB 
SEAFOOD ~IC 

~ 

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 


Nonstudents: $8.0(}'J>erson $ I ·--·------------l_s_.o_0'4_c_o_u_p_e_____, ••----• 
To \uh,.;ribc lUNa­tiona/ R"vieM! lclc­phone 1-l!00-341­1522. or wrile NR. 
P 0. Box 96639. 
~;~~fl~~­
o.c 


' 

page 4 

Drug restores ability of stroke patients 
; 
I Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A drug ap­proved for some stroke patients may also reinvigorate sluggish, aging brains with the quick-witted learning ability of youth, a group of Chicago re­searchers reported Thursday. 
In tests on groups of young and middle-aged rabbits at Northwestern University Medi­cal School, researchers said that a drug called nimodipine was able to correct age-related mental slowness so that the older rabbits could learn as well as the younger ones. 
"They (older rabbits receiv­ing the drug) actually learned at the same rate, if not a slightly faster rate, than the young rabbits," said John Dis­terhoft, an associate professor of cell biology at Northwestern, who directed the study. "Two­thirds of the control group (older rabbits not receiving the drug) never did learn the task." 
He said that although the ex­periment used only a labora­tory test of learning, there is "every reason to believe" that the results would also apply to human learning skills. 
The Northwestern experi­ment, reported in Friday's edi­tion of the journal Science, was conducted using four groups of rabbits. Two of the groups were about 30 months old, middle age for rabbits. The other two groups were young adult rab­bits. 
1 
f
( 
Nimodipine was adminis­tered to one of the older groups and to one of the younger groups. The others were kept free of the drug to provide con­trol, or comparison, groups. 
To test learning ability, all of the rabbits were exposed to the sound of a tone, immediately followed by a mild burst of air against the eye. The air burst causes the eye to blink. 
This process was repeated 80 times a day. The researchers measured how soon and how of­ten the rabbits learned to an­ticipate the burst of air by closing their eyes at the sound of the tone. Each group received 15 training sessions. 
Disterhoft said that four of six older rabbits who did not receive nimodipine never did learned to blink at the sound. 
· The other two did learn, but at a slower rate than the older rabbits receiving the drug. "All of the aging nimodipine animals learned the task in less than eight days of training,'' he said, and this was very slightly faster than the learning rate shown by both the groups of young rabbits. Disterhoft said nimodipine, however, did not make the younger rabbits any smarter. The drug appears to help only the aged brain. Disterhoft said the experi­ment was suggested after Ger­man doctors noticed that stroke patients seemed to recover some learning losses when they were treated with nimodipine. 



HfiPPY:~ltth 


BIRTHDAY 
FRfiNI Mom &Dad 


Sweet moment The 
in the Huddle. Harsh winter winds forced many A small child chews on a long licorice stick Thursday walking around campus to seek refuge indoors. 

Searchers in the Azores find voice recorder box from Wed. plane crash 
Associated Press Rescuers called off the the Boeing 707 directly into the 
search for the two bodies still mountain while trying to land 
VILA DO PORTO, Azores Is­missing saying it would be in fog. The seven-member lands -Authorities on Thursday impossible to find them on the American crew and the 137 pas­found the cockpit voice recor­heavily forested slopes of Pi.co sengers, italian to~rists head~d ~er of a chartered U.S. jetliner Alto mountain where the Jet across the Atlantic to a Carib-that slammed into a mountain crashed Wednesday. bean vacation, were killed. and killed all 144 people Antonio Alves of the Civilian aboard,andtheyrecoveredthe Aviation Authority said it was Pastor said the plane struck remains of all but two of the hoped the recorder would help the mountain at an altitude of dead. explain why the pilot steered about 1,700 feet. 

Here is your chance to develop few. You will take on respon­your professional skills by teach­sibilities and meet challenges ing children eager to learn ... in that would never be offered you a country where teachers are in a starting position in the United highly respected. More than 45 States. When you return. you will countries are asking for Peace find that your Peace Corps serv­Corps Volunteers in almost every ice will open new doors to you. field of education: Math and Educational institutions. intern a­Science. Primary. Vocational tiona] firms and government and Special Education and agencies value Peace Corps Industrial Arts. to name only a experience. 
25 years of PEACE CORPS The toughest job you'll ever love. 
Film Seminar, Wednesday, February 15th at 7 p.m., Center for Social Concerns. Interviews Tues. & Wed., February 28th & March 1st, Career and Placement Services, Memorial Library. Register Now! 
----------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------.--~~~~----------------------------~ 
Friday, February 10, 1989 The Observer page 5 

--~----~--~---~ ·----­
•



Chernobyl data IS finally released 
Associated Press "Glasnost and the democratization of public life 
MOSCOW -Fallout from the played no small role in the Chernobyl nuclear disaster making public the data on the contaminated one-fifth of radiation situation in the Byelorussia to the point that of­republic," he was quoted as ficials are monitoring the saying. health of more than 300,000 Yevtukh, a member of people, Tass, the official news Byelorussian Council of Minis­agency, reported Thursday. ters, said some time was 
Tass asked in its dispatch needed to analyze 40,000 soil why nearly three years passed samples after the accident in before those who lived just April1986. north of the stricken nuclear Last week, the government power plant were told how newspaper Izvestia said 20 seriously their health was Byelorussian villages were threatened. being abandoned. The number 
of people affected was not 

"Is this not too late to tell the given, but the newspaper said public the complete picture of 1,200 apartments would be built the radiation situation?" the for them. agency asked. 
Vladimir Yevtukh, chairman The contaminated area in the of the area disaster relief com­Byelorussian Republic is due mission, responded with a com­north of the Chernobyl nuclear ment that implied residents of power plant in the Ukraine and the area still might not know if twice the size of Massachu­
The Observer I Mike Ury 
President Mikhail Gorbachev setts. The article did not ad­gal Bouts, which will take place at Stepan Center on had not introduced his policy of dress contamination in the Uk­Feb. 19, 22 and 24. glasnost, or openness. rainian Republic. 
Terrorist bought supplies at discount stores to make bombs 
Associated Press Yu Kikumura, reputedly a Swiss bank account. for the 1986 U.S. bombing of point he would have made an­member of the Japanese Red "He didn't tell jokes, he Libya. other mistake," said Assistant 
NEWARK, N.J.-A Japanese Army who received terrorist didn't laugh, in fact, he looked New Jersey State Trooper U.S. Attorney John Lacey, who man allegedly came within two training in Lebanon's Bekka like a guy with a lot of prob­Robert Cieplensky said he helped prosecute the case. days of blowing up a Manhat­Valley, entered the United lems, with a lot of troubles on noticed Kikumura acting er­"But based on his experience tan building. States illegally last March 8 his mind," Carmen Brown, ratically. As Kikumura drove and background, I have very 
Documents reveal that he and then made his zigzag, 7,000-whose Huntington, W.Va., off, Cieplensky stopped him little doubt that he would have avoided suspicion by buying in­mile trek in a used Mazda. campground was one of the and found in the back seat a succeeded in killing people gredients for his deadly bombs Court papers show he stayed many places Kikumura stayed package containing three with those bombs." on a monthlong terrorist shop­at motels, bed and breakfast during his trip, said in a tele­bombs: hollowed-out fire extin­On Tuesday, Kikumura, ping spree to art supply, sport­rooms, and campgrounds-his phone interview with The As­guishers filled with gunpow­claiming the allegations ing goods and discount stores travels apparently financed in sociated Press. der, lead shot and with against him were fabricated, in 11 states. part by money drawn from a His odyssey ended at a New switches and triggers. He also was sentenced to 30 years in 
London School of Economics and Political Science 
A chance to study and live in London 
Junior-year programs, Postgraduate Diplomas, One­Year Master's Degrees and Research Opportunities in the Social Sciences. 
The wide range of subjects includes:­Accounting and Finance • Actuarial Science • Busi­
ness Studies • Economics • Econometrics • 
Economic History • European Studies • Geography • Government • Health Planning • Housing • Industrial Relations • International History • International Rela­tions • Law • Management Science • Operational Research • Philosophy, Logic & Scientific Method • Population Studies • Politics • Regional and Urban Planning • Sea-Use Policy • Social Administration • Social Anthropology • Social Planning in Developing Countries • Social Work • Sociology • Social Psychol­ogy • Statistical and Mathematical Sciences • Systems Analysis • 
Application forms from· Admissions Registrar. Room 10. l.S.E.• Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England, stating whether undergraduate or postgraduate. 
Jersey Turnpike rest stop on found a map which authorities prison for explosives and weap­April 12, two days before offi­later said showed possible ons charges and carrying false cials said he intended to bomb other targets, including three documents, including a pas­a Navy recruiting center New York City college cam­sport. Kikumura's attorney, housed in a Veterans Adminis­puses. civil rights lawyer William tration building in retaliation "I would hope that at some Kunstler, said an appeal was 
[X]~[p)[p))'f ~ ®LrlXJ ~U~LJlXJ[Q)~W [F~[N] 

LOVE MOM &DAD & MANDY 
planned. 
Investigators used receipts found in Kikumura's car to piece together his movements in the month before his arrest. His travels took him to road­side motels through America's heartland, across its colonial byways and into the Bible Belt. The documents show he spent time in Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, Ohio, Mic­higan, Illinois, Missouri, Ten­nessee, Kentucky, West Vir­ginia and Pennsylvania. 
Along the way, he bought items such as gas cans, a diet scale, flash bulbs, electrical wire and tape, cements, epoxy glue and fire extinguishers. 
PlACE: Morris Civic Auditorium 



INTERNATIONAL PEACE AND UNITY 
A Concert by ChaulaThacker South Bend, Indiana TIME:
An Internationally Known 
7:30P.M. 

and Gifted Dancer DATE: Saturday
Along with 
February 11, 1989

Mark Laudeman and Katherine Larson 
Sponsored by: 

Master of Ceremony 
Gail M. Martin Call Morris Civic at (219) 284-9190 CALL ABOUT NO I SMC DISCOUNT! 





-r-----­
page 6 The Observer Friday, February 10, 1989 
oc 
continued from page 1 
Griff 
continued from page 12 
you're commg on strong as a 
devil's advocate. I don't want 
to spend any more time exer­
cising my limited powers of 
discernment. The ideas I have are important to me; and I'm passing them on to you for whatever they're worth. 
I 
Whatever ails our century, the Church's mission is to preach the pure, undiluted Gospel of Christ, and not some version of it that we think pleasing to the court of Heaven. Whatever it meant if the pale moon danced at Med­jugorje with the garish sun 
across the firmament like 
Astaire and Rogers, it 
couldn't mean we should 
I 
preach any other gospel of salvation and love than the 
one that is preached. 
Cetrtainly we shouldn't spice ~ it up by adding to it an anti­
II 
gospel of fear. 
~ 
I 
The report is only one part of dents. Officers are also hoping an effort called the "Off-to meet with the South Bend 





181-4811

Campus Initiative." Recently, mayor and police chief to ex­student government began plore other possible measures publishing a bi-monthly that could be taken to improve newsletter for off-campus stu-living conditions. 
I don't think God's going to let the world slip out His hands, for He loves it too much. Louie Armstrong sings, "It's a wonderful world," and he speaks for me. Maybe if the Church could serve it with more love, we could help diminish the agony of the century we live in. 
vs
\7 HAPPY 
VALENTINES 


DAY! 

MICHIGAN 
u.ut a. ~u ~u 
C] a. 4{zUIAt ~ 

WOLVERINES 
CJ. 6 ••******* 
e..a (St7J 57~rrr4 ...tU ~ "Q/44 " ?lf<uU.Ute'ltt 1-114. -1 ~.LES 
e. k .tdtq-~ Ue 


FRIDAY FEBRUARY 10 AT THE 
'ltE'%"7 'DA'fl '71t '71t'Z>1A1fA 


(} ~~:~·;::~;~ ~ 
J.A.C.C.
rincludes IN deliven~J 

7:30 PM 

JUNIORS! MONDA V NIGHT CO-ED INNERTUBE WATER POLO 
Registration for JPW

FEB. 13 8-10:30PM 2-10pm

OPEN CHALLENGE TOURNEY 
,r -•ctl 
Feb 13-14

'e..:? 
CALL NVA 239-6100 G..~ 
Lafortune's Sarin Rm.

FOR MORE INFO. ~ 
you must bring ID's for ea. person

~~----~. 
that you register. 

l 
! I 
~ 
! 
Build 
conti~ued from page 1 
ROTC programs. The comple­
tion date for facility is May 1, 
1990. 
The classrooms for the ROTC 
programs will be located on the 
first floor. The upper floor will 
consist of administrative areas 
and faculty rooms. 
Frank Pasquerilla of Johnston, Pa., is underwriting the $5.75 million project budget cost for the ROTC building. The 
U.S. Department of Defense will present Pasquerilla with a citation for his gift, Conklin said. 
Pasquerilla previously donated the two female residence halls which bear his name. 
The Hesburgh Institute for International Peace Studies, currently residing in the Notre Dame Law School, will have a permanent location by Decem­ber 1990 in its new three build­ing complex on a site on Green Field across from the Univer­sity Club. 
Casteel will begin construct­ing the 60,000 square foot peace studies center in early June. 
The complex 'fill also house the Helen Kello~g Institute for International Studies which now operates in Decio Faculty Hall. 
"The complex is sort of a vil­lage complex. Visiting fellows and professors will be able to teach, attend conferences, and reside conveniently all in the same location," Dedrick said. 
The main building, which will face Notre Dame Avenue, will contain a 125 seat lecture hall, classrooms, conference rooms and a dining area. 
The second building, con­nected to the other two build­ings by inside corridors, will function as a two-story residental area consisting of 24 one-and two-bedroom apart­ments. 
The three floors of the last building will provide office space for peace studies admi­nistrators, foreign fellows and professors. 
The Kellogg Institute, di­rected by Father Ernest Bar­tell, will occupy the second floor. 
Joan Kroc, the widow of the founder of the McDonald's hamburger chain, is donating $6 million to cover the total cost of the complex. 
The University plans to landscape and build roads around the new ROTC and band buildings, Dedrick said. Also, walkways will connect the two facilities with the Hesburgh Li­brary and the Computing Cen­ter and Mathematics Building on the other side of Juniper Road. 
In the future, the University may develop an academic mall or quad on the site of Green Field near the peace studies complex, Dedrick said. "We 

Memoers of the SMC collegiate choir (left to right) 

Christine Uhoda, Linda Enright, Laulrrie.._M111alllliru.c._ut._aiillnllld----------------... 
are (currently) working on schematic designs for a new classroom building. We met with the designers every two or three weeks on it, but it is still in the planning stage." 
There is a possibility that a performing arts center will be built at the south end of the pro­posed quad, Dedrick said, add­ing that the development of the quad is still several years away. 
11010'1 PillA Fill DELIVERY 01 FRIDAYS CALL 
Katie Mainelli, warm up before practice. 

Friday, February 10, 1989 The Observer page 7 
'Goldilocks and Three Bears' teaches lesson 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE-They tried to throw the book at Goldilocks for her antics while the Bears were away --breaking and en­tering, theft and destruction of property. 
The Semmes, Bowen & Semmes law firm staged a trial 
Owner -Elizabeth Pullapilly ­
Wednesday at the Herring Run Middle School based on the childhood favorite to illustrate how the criminal justice sys­tem works. 
The jury of 83 sixth-and eighth-grade students heard testimony on how Mama, Papa and Baby Bear took a walk in the woods on a cold night while their soup cooled. They returned to find Baby Bear's chair in shambles. 

"Baby Bear's chair was ruined,'' Father Bear testified. 
On cross-examination, he ad­mitted he might have left the door unlocked. 
In her own defense, . Gol­dilocks claimed she was searching for leaves for a sci­ence project and got lost. "I was cold and hungry. I pressed against the door and it opened. I just wanted to use the phone. I didn't mean to do anything wrong," she testified. 
One thing led to another, she said, "And the next thing I knew, there were these three 
THE MALABAR 
Excellent Indian Cuisine Tuesday-Saturday: 5:00 p.m.-11:00 p.m. 1709 South Bend Avenue (Edison and U.S. 23) SMC I973 Reservations Desired-(219) 271-0115 
Malabar, the southwestern coastal region of India, has been legendary from time immemorial for its scenic beauty as well as its exotic spices. Ancient Egyptians, Romans and Greeks frequented these shores in search of cloves, cardamon, cinnamon, turmeric, saffron, coriander, ginger and, of course, black pepper. In the Middle Ages, however, the Muslim Arabs dominated the waterways from the Mediterranean Sea to the Arabian Sea and held the monopoly of spice trade. It was to break this Muslim monopoly that Europeans wanted to discooer a sea route India. Columbus' ooyage to Malabar landed him someplace else (you know where!). But Vasco da Gama finally went around Africa and reach., ed Calicut, the port of Malabar in 1498. The West suddenly became enchanted with the culinary ways of the Orient. 
FEATURING RIBS, STEAKS, CHICKEN, SEAFOOD 
272~5478 
52885 US 31 North Just North of Cleveland 
Rd. 
YOU'LL STICK TO OUR RIBS 
COLUMBUS BEST RIBS -OHIO MAGAZINE AND COLUMBUS MONTHLY MAGAZINE 
READERS CHOICE; BEST RIBS INDIANANAPOLIS MAGAZINE 

WINNER, CANTON RIB " BURN OFF '86" 
DOUBLE WINNER: RIBS & ONION RINGS BEST DISHES-COLUMBUS MONTHLY 

"'Rateu -Gilf6 {let all ~II FREE DELIVERY! 
• COME IN AND BROWSE 
lz= 
Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM 
Sundays9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon BHIDAL SERVICE 
SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S FRUIT BASKETS SERVING SO. BEND & MISHAWAKA OVER 60 YEARS FUNERAL TRIBUTES 
FAMILY RESTAURANT 
screaming bears." 
Teachers Robert Barnes and Macon Thornton played the bears and Goldilocks was portrayed by Muriel Ashley, a school system public relations employee who very con­veniently had long, curly blond hair. 
Semmes attorney Kristine Howanski was the prosecutor while Yvonne Harris, the firm's librarian, acted as the defense lawyer. Attorney Ber­nard Justis was the judge. 
The verdict: innocent on breaking and entering and theft, but guilty of destruction of property. 
"I wish I had never sat in that chair," Goldilocks lamented. 
Impress people 
Work for 
The


Happy 
"DAILY" BREAKFAST LUNCH DINNER SPECIALS 

Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students Since 1965. 
Now Serving an Extended Lunch and Dinner Menu. 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK AT 6:30A.M. 
. . .. . .. . . . ...... . . . .. . . . 
•  
APPLE PAN CAKE  •  ANY OMELETTE  
•  
SAVE $1.50  •  SAVE $1.00  
•  
Not Valid With Any Other Offer •  Not Valid With Any Other Offer  
Expires 3-31-89  •  Expires 3-31-89  
...  ·~  

•
·~ i 
w page 8 The Observer Friday, February 10, 1989 
\ 
t 
I, 
Libya's weapons are 
I 
( l 'beyond their needs' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-CIA Direc­tor William Webster told Congress on Thursday that Libya has acquired chemical weapons production capabili­ties far in excess of its own mil­itary needs, posing the possibility such weapons could be transferred to Middle East nations with past links to ter­rorists. 
Testifying before the Senate Governmental Mfairs Com­mittee, Webster also said that in recent years "the moral bar­rier to biological warfare has been breached," with at least 10 countries now working to produce both previously known and futuristic biological weap­ons. 
Webster said Libya has ex­perienced "at least one serious toxic chemical spill" at produc­tion facilities at an isolated site near Rabta, some 60 miles 
Cost 
continued from page 1 moved into Turtle Creek Apart­ments midway through his sophomore year. Brown moved out of Zahm Hall in search of more independence. "I wanted to do a little cooking, cleaning and entertaining without having someone peer over my shoulder," he said, "The main thing that bugged me about the dorm system was not being al­lowed to take responsibility for my own actions." 
Brown said he considers his apartment as a halfway house, a place to train for life in the "real world." Senior Sean McKessy agrees that living off campus provides a unique op­portunity to learn responsibil­ity. 
"I think it's a good idea to try and get some experience in the real world, to move off campus and take care of your­self," said McKessy, who moved into a house on Warrick Street at the beginning of his junior year. He said he prefers living in a house to living in an apartment. "It's easier for me to make my business my busi­ness here," McKessy said, "in an apartment you can't ask your whole breezeway to be quiet." 
The pros of living off campus outweigh the cons, according to senior Beth Switek, a Campus View Apartment resident. "There is a lot more freedom off campus," she said, "you don't feel like you're so shel­tered. It's nice being able to feel like you're at home, in­stead of having all the pre­ssures of school around you all the time." 
Drawbacks to living off campus include transportation and noise, said Switek. "If you don't have a car it's kind of dif­ficult to live off campus," she said. "Don't move into Campus View if if you want peace and quiet all the time and can't sleep with noise. There's nobody here to enforce quiet hours like in the dorms," she 
said. 
Rocco's Hair 

Styling 

531 N.Michigan St. Phone 233-4957 
southwest of Tripoli. 
He said that while such prob­lems are expected to continue, the Libyan plant should be ready soon to enter large-scale production of mustard gas and nerve agents, potentially at a rate of "tens of tons per day." 
Webster said the Libyan facility is the largest single fac­tory complex in the Third World capable of producing chemical weapons, although he said Iraq's overall chemical weapons potential is thought to be larger still. 
"We are concerned that the plant's production capabilities far, far exceed what Libya could use for its own military purposes," Webster said. 
"Therefore it becomes a po­tential brokering agent for other countries," in the Middle East with links to groups which may have past terrorist inten­tions, he said. 
Isolation is another problem facing some off-campus resi­dents. "The main drag with Turtle Creek is that I don't know everyone," said Brown, "I don't even know all the people in my own building. I don't feel like I'm part of campus," he said. 
"There are many things on­campus students take for granted," said McKessy, "like three meals of good food each day and laundry service. If people had to go to the Laundromat every time they needed to wash their clothes," he said, "they would realize what a great deal St. Michael's laundry is." 
Apartments are only avail­able on a 12-month basis at Turtle Creek. As of today a studio costs $349 per month, a one-bedroom unit costs $389, a two-bedroom unit costs $429 and a two-bedroom townhouse costs $429. These prices do not include utilities such as electricity and water, and the apartments are unfurnished. 

All apartments at Notre Dame A venue are two­bedroom units. Prices depend upon the number of students living in each apartment. A nine-month lease for next year­costs $240 for two people, $180 for three people and $140 for four people. These figures in­clude water and trash service. The Notre Dame Avenue units 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
A PROGRAM ARRANGED BY 
DEAN ANTHONY N. MICHEL AND THE DEPARTMENTS OF THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
6:30P.M., MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1989 ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
Junior John Tansey of Keenan Hall, reviews his on his dorm room couch. banking project for a business class as he leans back 
are furnished.  three people and $215 for four  houses depend upon the size  
Campus  View  Apartments  people.  and location of the particular  
offer  nine- or  twelve-month  Several  rooms  and  houses  house, and range from $280 to  
leases.  Rent  includes  all  -are available for rent through­ $800 per month. About 1414 un­ 
utilities and furniture, and all  out  South  Bend,  ·  said  dergraduate students and 2027  
apartments  are  two-bedroom  Whaszczuki. Rental prices for  graduate  students  live  off­ 
units. Prices for next year are:  rooms range from $110 to $300  campus this year, Whaszczuki  
$310 for two people, $255 for  per month. She said rates for  said.  

D~======================================~D 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
Applications are currently being accepted for the following position: 
Business Manager 
• 
Oversee production of a newspaper. 

• 
Work with these seven departments: Advertising, Circulation, Business, Production, Systems, Observer Typesetting, and Ad Design 

• 
Will be responsible for planning and implementing a balenced budget for the student newspaper. 

• 
Need to be a motivator, planner, and trouble shooter. 

• 
No previous newspaper publishing experience necessary. 


Call Chris Donnelly at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position. 
=Ihe=Obsenter----= 
o~======================================dc 
Viewpoint
Friday, February 10, 1989 
page 9 

Electoral campaign: A disgrace to US 
During the electoral campaign last year many of us were filled with a mix­ture of anger, shame, and frustration at the spectacle we saw before our eyes. It would be easy to forget--and much more desirable of course--but it may be helpful and instructive to reflect upon what we experienced then. I think that what that sorry episode shows is a deep­seated problem in our present society, one that touches the very fibre of this nation. 
Victor J. Krebs 
Metanoia 

Quite independently of its outcome, 
the electoral campaign was, in the 
opinion of many Democrats and 
Republicans, a disgrace to the country 
and an insult to the people. The candi­
dates were paraded in front of our tele­
vision screens talking about the most 
inane subjects; the questions they had 
to answer were of the same level as 
those asked of the candidates in a Miss 
America contest. And the presidential 
debates were with good reason just as 
disagreeable to many. 
It is no secret that the presidential 
candidates were prostituting them­
selves to the media, sacrificing in­
tegrity for the immediate impression. 
Polls taken daily measured the temper­
ature of the nation. Ironically those 
same polls also defined the opinion of 
the majority. And that is no surprise, 
for where conformity is good and dis­
agreement bad, where following the 
crowd is more valued than making up 
one's own mind, where will people go 
who have no time or reason to think? 
We are in an age when we are en­couraged to make our decisions on the basis of images rather than on sub­stance, and where we are growing more and more complacent with the way things are. 
We thought that the public conscience had been awakened with Watergate, yet we saw a proliferation of political scandals during the Reagan era that hardly made the nation stir. These past eight years have been as if America were asleep. Things seemed to happen as if in a dream. There is no question that this general attitude served the Reagan years well. The teflon factor, indeed. The electoral campaign simply magnified that fact.. .and made good use of it. 
There is a trend in our society now among our highest and most desirable goods. When George Bush was here at Notre Dame he attacked the single person that dared express his outrage at the farce we were all wit­nessing by condemning his difference of opinion and calling him a "fringe liberal." A fringe liberal? ! My good­ness, I thought, thank God I'm not one of them! I remember having flash­backs of the witch burnings at Salem, the persecution of Jews in Germany, of 
"communists"  in  McCarthy's  
America ... ("and  now?  What  do  we  
have  to  look forward  to?"  I  asked  

myself). Of course, now that I have the distance to judge more objectively, I know I was overreacting. But there was something about the general attitude in that rally that epitomized the prevail­ing atmosphere of the intolerance of the Reagan years, and that prompted those associations in me. 
There is, of course, nothing wrong with conformity unless it is achieved at the expense of education. That seems, unfortunately, the way in which it is sought these days. 
Take for example the celebrated campaign against drugs: a masterful use of the media, conveying images with strong emotional appeal. What's wrong with this? Certainly not the con­sequences but the principle behind it: 
[We are not expected to think. We are 
told what to do. And in the end we all follow ... But the ends do not justify the means. 
When Bruce Babbitt was here, he talked about a revival in America. What he had in mind was a time when the pioneering spirit of America, the spirit that founded this nation, rises again against any sort of intolerance of differing opinions--whether or not they are supported by the majority. I, too, believe it will come, but it won't come on its own. It is up to our generation to bring it about. And how? By shaking away our apathy and unambiguously reacting against any sign of in­tolerance, by demanding always to be treated as intelligent agents. We should never allow a candidate to our presidency, for example, to abuse with such impunity an individual expressing his disagreement. We should be out­raged at our presidential candidates feeding us contentless rhetoric. We should demand serious discussion, and we should not allow ourselves to be treated as merely passive viewers before the television. 
To allow the media to tell us what we ought and what we ought not to do, to allow it to manipulate our opinions just will not do. The only way in which we can counteract this numbing spirit that seems to have taken possession of the country is to assume our responsibility 
P.O. Box Q 
NO cultural diversity shines bright 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to thank all the people 
who took part in last week's Interna­
tional Festival. Around 170 people from 
over 30 countries participated in it, 
making it the biggest and best one the 
International Student Organization has 
ever produced. 

To every single performer and every single member of the crew, the ISO would like to express its gratitude for the countless hours and all the dedi­cated hard work that went into the making of the International Festival. The ISO would also like to thank The Observer and its staff for its coverage. Finally, thanks to our co-sponsors-the Minorities Com~ern Commission, stu­dent government, and the Multicultural Executive Council. Starting from next year, we plan to present the International Festival on a multi-night basis. With the success and support we received last Saturday, that prospect seems very plausible. In the year labeled as the Year of Cultural Diversity, and at a time when aware­ness of different cultures is being in­creasingly emphasized, we at the ISO take pride in having presented what we consider to be the best and most 
genuine  single-event multicultural  
show in town.  
Peter Pacheco  

ISO co-president Feb. 8, 1989 
Misuse of language leads to confusion 
Dear Editor: 
Chilled like many others by the return of very cold weather, I looked with interest at The Observer's front­page picture of three students coping with a "blistery day." A check of my and begin to exercise our freedom by becoming more critical of what goes on around us, by taking more active roles in our communities, and by learning to form our opinions on the basis of accu­rate information. 
Plato compared the human condition with that of prisoners in a cave. Most of the time we remain shackled in the cave deciding our opinions on shadows. We get used to making our decisions on images rather than on facts, on what people tell us rather than on what we believe. It is natural, for that is the easiest route, and life may seem easier and more enjoyable that way. The light is too much to handle when we are used to remaining in the dark. 
But it is our task to try to move towards the light--no matter how diffi­cult it may seem or how much effort it may require. To get an education does not mean to become able to eventually get a well-paying job, although many of us will. It means rather to learn who we are, what we believe, and how we ought to act. Only thus can we eventu­ally think and decide for ourselves. We need to start to move outside the cave towards the light, for only from there will we be able to recognize the shadows cast before our eyes for what they are. Victor J. Krebs is a graduate student in philosophy and is a regular View­point Columnist. 
own hands and feet revealed no blisters, fortunately, but shortness of breath convinced me that, yes, the cold winds have been very blustery. A few days ago, one of your captions showed a "perspective" student; what his perspectives were I couldn't tell. But I wondered whether you were insensitive to the prospective damage such misuse of words can lead to. 
Parents are currently shelling out near twelve thousand dollars a year to educate their children at Notre Dame. Your careless and front-page use of En­glish might lead a few parents to con­clude that illiteracy is incompatible with education and that some sort of fraud must be going on here. Please buy a dictionary and use it correctly. Or else all of us, faculty and students alike, might be out looking for jobs. Scam or not, let's not risk a good thing. 
Thomas Jemielity professor of English Feb. 7, 1989 


Doonesbury Gary Trudeau 
PIJUING OfJT YOUR. W&1V/3 (j(Jf' NOTHING 70 F&AR aPt{N/3 /£TT&I<5! fi?I)M A BUNCH OF OW l8T­YOU'/?& REAUY m<S. 9113 m.J'5!5M/3. ANl? 
'3TICKJN6/T 70 17FV'3THeR. IT'S JU5TNOT YOUR. OWtACJY/ A PR08teM. \ ~...., 
~~~ 
/::"' 
Quote of the Day 
"Be wiser than other people If you can, but do not tell them so." 

-Philip D. Stanhope (1694 -1773) 

'  

 Editorial Board  015erations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Edtlor·m·Chtef  Chris Murphy  Busmess Manager John Oxnder  
Managmg Edttor  Chns Donnelly  Advertrsmg Des1gn Manager Molly Killion  
News Edtlor  Regos Coccoa  Adverttsing Manager  Londa Gofdschn,dl  
The Observer os the ondependent newspaper publoshed by the students ot the Unoversoty ot  News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin  Productron Manager  Bernadelte Shifts  
Notre Dame du Lac and Saont Mary"s College It does not necessanly reflect the pohcoes of  V1ewpomt Ed1(01  ..... Dave Bruner  Systems Manager  Mark Rodgeway  
the admonostratoon of eother onstotutoon The news os reported as accurately and obJechvely as  Sports Edolor  Marty Strasen  Controller  Todd Hardoman  
possoble Unsogned edotonals represent the oponoon of the matonty ot the Edotonal Board  Accent Edttor  Beth Healy  Graphtc Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Comrnentanes. leiters and the lnsode Column present the voews ot theor authors Column  Samt Mary's Ed1tor  Sandy Cenmele  
space os avaolable to all members of the communoty and the free expressoon ot varyong  Photo Ed1tor  MIChael Moran  
op.noons on campus. through leiters. os encouraged  
Founded November 3,1966  




'I. 

GERRY SCIMECA accent writer 
T
onight, the 
Sophomore Literary Festival offers a special treat in the form of 
author Stuart Dybeck. 
Sophomore Literary Festival 
A short-story writer and poet, Dybek's artistic merit is napping comfortably in the upper-tier of today's writers, despite having published less in the past five years than 
:I Tommy Lasorda. In fact, ! ( among serious followers of I literature, Dybeck would be a
/,I 
household name if not for the
I

I i I huge chunks of time between his works. 
A highly revered and enig­matic presence in contempo­rary literature, the Lilliputian output of Dybek's work is matched only by the gargan­tuan volume of praise his work receives. While publish­ing only one or two stories a year, he always seem to cap­ture one of the major literary prizes, such as the 0. Henry Award or the Pushcart Prize-­three of which he has received. 
Information on Dybek is hard to come by, and despite his appearance at the fes­tival, he often maintains a low profile in the literary community. 
A native of Chicago, his col­lection of short stories, "Childhood and Other Neigh­borhoods," was greeted with unanimous praise. He kept the critics wide-eyed with his 
volume of collected poems, 
"Brass Knuckles." Dybeck 
now teaches in the English 
department at Western Mic­
higan Univesity. 
His next collection of short stories is highly anticipated and due soon. Despite the en­ticements from publishers for more of his work, Dybek operates under a code of ar­tistic integrity where the flawless threads of his fiction remain safe from the snags of 

A
outside pressure. Tonight will be a highlight in the Fes­
literary treasure. 

Ill. RQS,t>.L'(N! RIGI-IT. l'IJt. 00\ 1t> 5ruDi ~ ~R£ '(OO? toR ~ EXM<\ TO~OR~. SO ~"P..T AR£ '(00 I ~T IT 00\H TO~IGHT. IX>ING? ~£-GOT IT? r---7..______., 
'f.k)RK? 

NEW ORDER technique 
KEVIN WALSH accent writer 

I just heard the new New Order album, and I swear I heard an acoustic guitar in there somewhere. I SWEAR! 
I had given up any hope of ever hearing these guys use any organic sounds at all after hearing the opening track and first single "Fine Time," which sounds like somebody programmed a 
to sound like Pur­
tival's memory for years to come, and will provide an en­riching chance to hear a very 

getaway:
mysterious and private 

n the Ice House 
D 

MARK McLAUGHLIN
-

accent writer 
-·< 

:s last 
Q ncounter with the 
::J ce House was four 
~ years ago, whenM
Emil Hofman, dean
% of freshman year, offered us 
cr 
0 a bus ride there on Freshman Date Night. I finally made it 
cr 
there as a senior and found 
the Ice House worth the wait.
C1) 

The Ice House atmosphere
en 

is subdued and certainly not 
intrusive to a quiet dinner. 
Like most establishments in 
the 100 Center in Mishawaka, 

it is predominantly brickwork and wood furniture. The res­
taurant seats a hundred 
guests or so at open tables or 
side booths, arranged in two 
overlapping levels. 
The menu features an as­sortment of appetizers, ran­ging from potato skins and fried zucchini to Shrimp Dejonghe. The shrimp we or­dered were fairly good-sized and swimming in a buttery clear sauce. We found it tasty, although a bit more seasoning would have helped. 
We did not partake of the wine list, but there was a fairly wide selection of wines available, most of them in the $10-$15 a bottle range. 
A salad, bread, and choice of vegetable or several types of potato were included with all entrees, which ranged from $8.95 for teriyaki chicken to $15.95 for some of the more exotic seafood dishes. Entrees were primarily steaks and seafood items. 
The salad w~s very disappointing-it made our beloved dining hall's salad bar look scrumptious. The "salad" was actually a pile of 
records 
•
In 
•
review 
•
review 

warm 

not, is not its worst feature. I think New Order just decided to let a helicopter sit in as drummer on this song. The rest of the album is miles bet­ter. "Love Less," "Dream Attack," and "Run" are clas­sic New Order-tuneful, catchy and danceable. 
With the low, breathy vo­cals and brooding atmo­spheric tune, "Guilty Partner" could actually be a Joy Division song. On the other hand, "All The Way," as my next-door neighbor pointed out, lifts the bass-line straight from The Cure's "Just Like Heaven." 
Overall, Technique is pretty much in the groove that New Order has worn for itself. Fans will be more than 
Th1 recoi this: lem i ever~ 
have abou1 you.. but I you! follm after wort! can't SomE me... Falls look moth than see VI 
( 

e 
~ 
i r f ) 

c 

lettuce chunks with an onion or two, some soft croutons, and not enough of whatever dressing we ordered. The bread was mediocre, but was served piping hot. 

Our entrees were a substan­tial improvement, though. Portions were substantial without giving you the feeling you were wasting food. Just about everything we saw people eating looked good. 
I ordered the teriyaki chicken, which was served with a sweet orange sauce that was on the mild side but complemented the chicken well. The bed of rice under the chicken was superb, and the potato was large and gar­nished with real bacon bits and butter. My guest had the petit filet mignon, which was 
Friday, February 10, 1989 


VIOLENT FEMMES 
3 
The new Violent Femmes record goes something like this: "It seems that the prob­lem is very deep! 'cause every time I try to sleep! I have nightmares! thinking about getting together with you... I'm just like my father/ but I am much worse...I hope you got really fat.. .I've been following women around all afternoon ... there's nothing worth living for tonight...! can't help being careful/ Something might happen to me...l'm going down Niagara Falls in a barrel of fun ...You look like you could be the mother of a girl I hated more than any other ... surely you see what's inside of me." 

cooked properly and was quite tender. The steak fries, however, could have been tas­tier. 
The dessert tray was entic­ing, though we only had room to split the chocolate fudge cake. Judging from that cake, though, I would highly recom­mend dessert. 
Service was unobtrusive and struck that rare balance between being too slow and rushing you through the meal. Our waitress was pleasant, didn't bobble our order, and even got us our check promptly. 
With Valentine's Day com­ing up, the Ice House is one restaurant that would be just fine for a date with that cutie you've been eyeing across the quad. Go for it. 
THE REPLACEMENTS 

all over the stage. Their al­Tell A Soul is full of New Age
don't tell 

bums were similarly inconsis­Music. There are only two 
a soul tent. really slow numbers, includ­1986's Pleased To Meet Me -ing the Beach Boys-ish was the first real evidence of "They're Blind." 
Lenny Bruce once said, their musical maturity, which The album's single "I'll Be "There's nothing sadder than is why it should. come as no You" is fairly indicative of an aging hipster." In light of surprise that Don't Tell A the album's tenor. It wishes that, let's admit that there's Soul is not an album full of aloud to switch places with something pathetic about a pogo-thrash and adolescent somebody else, anybody else, 40-year-old man singing about angst. and includes the classic line "little girls" and prancing "I'm a rebel without a clue around a stage. A change is evident from Lest anyone think that 
This is what The Replace­the first song, the acoustic­Replacements have ments are trying to avoid on tinged "Talent Show," a out, "I Won't" is a rave-up Don't Tell A Soul. The goofy look at the band's early styled on an old rockabilly Replacements were arguably daze. It's funny, catchy and tune and kicks with anything at one time considered the almost wistful. Paul Wester­they've ever recorded. most promising and most im­berg's voice is still in top The Replacements are mature band around. Their form and the band rolls along trying to avoid the trap of the brilliant shows were inter­behind him with a surprising aging hipster. Whether their spersed with choppy, spotty amount of control. This isn't fans will allow them will be drunkfests, where they'd fall meant to imply that Don't interesting to see. 
•
preview 
A celebration ofpeace and unity 
JANICE ARCHER. States, Canada, Europe, and accent writer the Soviet Union. The whole troupe has been invited to 
O
n Saturday, perform in Beijing, Shanghai, Feb. 11 at 7:30 and Nanjing, in the People's p.m., in the Morris Republic of China during the Civic Auditorium, summer of 1989. internationally Thacker has received more known dancer Chaula than 65 awards for choreog­Thacker will lead a company raphy, costume design, direc­of 15-20 dancers in an evening tion, and performances. She of Indian dance. has also won special awards 
for community service as an 
Thacker will perform with artist, teacher, and choreog­guitar and vocal artists Kathy rapher. tistic director of Nadanta, In­Larson and Mark Laudeman. Thacker is a founding direc­c., a non-profit organization 
The concert is being spon­tor of the Chauladevi Institute dedicated to the preservation sored by the International of Dance, where she teaches and promotion of Indian Geeta Society to benefit a classical Indian dance to 100 dance forms. This work has Conference for World Peace children in southeastern Mic­been supported by the Mic­in Chicago in July. higan. higan Council for the Arts for 
The Peace and Unity cul­As a student of the classical the past two years. tural dance is one of many Indian dance discipline called Thacker has danced for that Thacker and her troupe Bharat Natyam, Thacker television audiences in India have performed. Thacker has helps to keep this cultural and the United States. She danced in India, the United tradition alive. She is the ar-performs not only classical dances, but also traditional folk and modern pieces, and 

musical dance dramas. 
Tickets for the Peace and Unity Concert are available at the Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office for $20. Students can get a 25 per­cent discount, and groups of twenty or more get a 10 per­cent discount. 


~------------~----------~------------------------------------------~--~..----------------~~.........................
If 
eage 12 etc. Friday, February 10, 1989 
Are Jesus and Mary calling you? 
T 
he last thing the world beyond doubt that if there needs to hear from the were not a God, somebody Church in the closing years of would invent Him; or that if this tragic century is a mes­He doesn't want to do the sage of gloom and doom. A work He cut out for Himself, "Sinners in the Hands of zealots could find someone Angry of God" theology could willing to fill the gap. They be the last nail in the coffin nominated the Mother of God, for the idea of God as a God so it seems; and for quite a of love. The human race has while, the Mother of God has so far survived the devasta-
been cameo 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

tion of war, famine, earthquakes, epidemics, holocausts, and the rest as well as its own wide-spread and terrible sinfulness. The 64-billion dollar question, tow­ering over all philosophies and theologies, has been: "Where is God? Does He care what's happening to us? Where has He been? Where is He anytime when horrors take over?" Halfway through the century, the silence of God was so absolute and ap­palling that believers trying to put their trust in God, who kept proving to be un­trustworthy or irresponsible, 
reached the reluctant conclu­
sion that the God of their fat­
hers was either irrelevant or 
dead. 
In the mean time, in a wild manifestation of the religious imagination working over­time, the Jesus-people of the Catholic persuasion proved 
fll'BOO'lJ I. 
Happy 21st Birthday to a @!Rl~~ir sister!! 

Love, Peg, 'Diet aru£ tlie rest oftlie 1'am!! 
1989 SOPHOMORE 

LITERARY  
FESTIVAL  
Friday Feb. 10  11:00 a.m.  Workshop with Lisel Mueller In the Library Lounge  
Saturday Feb. 11  8:00 p.m. Stuart Dybek Reading in the Library Auditorium 12:00 p.m. Workshop with Stuart Dybek In the Library Lounge  

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
• 

appearances in every meadow in which she can find children, and in every con­vent where she can find a sister who isn't crushed at being told of the Pope in chains. The news of the Blessed Mother riding off madly in all directions, plead­ing for conversions, would break the aching heart. 
Is Father Griffin attacking Medjugorje again? Listen, honey: Medjugorje is only one of a dozen pitstops on her itinerary, as you could see, if I wrote out her schedule as it appears in a publication called Jesus and Mary Are Calling You, in the issue "Warnings for Heaven," put out by the Christian Family Renewal in Clovis, California. In hundreds of places where Mary has not yet appeared, statues of Mary have been weeping real tears, and statues of Jesus have been sweating human blood. 
To put Medjugorje in the picture, the CFR publication reports "Yugoslavian Appari­tions." " ... The Madonna has repeatedly told the children that the world is on the the brink of a major catastrophe. She pleads with us to believe that the great catastrophe facing us can only be turned away through prayer, sacrifice, and pen­ance. The virgin has repeatedly stated ... that as long as man continues to ig­nore God, we will never have peace." "As long as man con­tinues to ignore God..."How ironic! Can God and man really be at such an impasse? While man has been wonder­ing when the funeral of the late, great departed Yahweh was held, the Lord's mother has been yelling at Yugos­lavians: "Why don't you call home?" 
Why are these scenarios of doom and gloom so painful to hear about? Because they ignore the central truth of our religion: There is news from God, there always has been and it is good news! It is Gospel! "For God so loved the world that He gave His only-begotten Son..." The Church's unique mission is to spread this good news, to make God's love real in the lives of people living through terrible times, who have started to fear the cosmic silence and the infinite spaces between the stars. 
Talent, technology, teamwork-
Talented people, sophisticated technologies and teamwork-its a combination that has one purpose: to maintain the Merrill Lynch standard of leadership in the financial services industry. 
Through the Corporate Systems Program, \._ candidates are given the training that not only develops skilled technical professionals, but also skilled leaders. 
Merrill Lynch is seeking graduates with majors in Business, Liberal Arts and Technical Subjects. Candidates should be technically-oriented, with a strong desire to learn computer technology. 
If interested in learning more about Merrill Lynch­We Will Be On Campus To Hold an Information Session 
Wednesday, February 15,1989 7:00p.m. to 9:00p.m. University Club 
Upper Lounge 
Menill Lynch makes the most of all three. 
~Merrill Lynch
A tradition of trust 
Merrill Lynch Is an equal employment opportunity employer. 
Is man a sinner? Why else did the Lamb of God die ex­cept to take away sin? Does Christ's death mean that man doesn't have to be account­able for his sins? Accoun­tability is the law of life; every human action has a consequence; if you care­lessly use your free will, you can ruin yourself. Christ's death means that God's mercy is always available as a pick-me-up. But if man in­sists on being self-destructive, God's grace may be the last thing he's willing to accept. 
But remember the scenarios of mercy that apply to all of us: "Father, forgive them, for they don't know what they are doing." Re­member the Mass, the memorial of Christ's death on the cross; the ritual, on which the sun never sets, which is efficacious as Christ's prayer to the Father, when He inter­cedes for us as our great' high priest. 
The Church exists to serve the Gospel. Medjugorje is an impertinence, because it in­trudes on the Church's gospel mission with threats and ul­timatums. Our L~iidY of Fatima said: "The Blessed Mother can no longer restrain the Hand of Her Son from striking the world with judge­ment for its many crimes." Protestants have always ob­jected that as an interces­ssory figure Mary gets in the way of Christ. With her on the scene, "sobbing piteous­ly," and begging: "Help! Help! Help me, my child." 
" ...to my torment, I have to watch so many of my children go to damnation," 
something could get lost in 
the translation. 
Isn't Medjugorje, with its warnnings to do penance and fast, a reiteration of the Gospel tradition? The Gospels talk of the disciples of John the Baptist fasting, and the disciples of Jesus not fasting, because the bridegroom was still with them. What has this got to do with six chidren in Yugoslavia? Do they eat locusts and wild honey? Do they fast for forty days in the desert? 
I would sound like St. Paul listing his credentials as a Jew if I once again told you of my devotion to Our Lady. I don't think that as a mother, she would show children vi­sions of hell. Medjugorje may well be lovely, and have an important meaning; but if Medjugorje means we must start re-writing the redemp­tive drama, then hasn't Med­jugorje become the tail wag­ging the dog? But I'm no great shakes as a saint or a scholar, so you don't have to believe me. 
I hope never to write about Medjugorje again. Devotion to the Blessed Virgin, like a deep fundamentalist attach­ment to the Bible, generates strong emotions, especially if 
see GRIFF, page 6 The Observer page 13 

Schwartz asserted herself as Margaret NowJm--ana shared a threat inside and out, tallying in the wealth, dishing out a
Women 
10 points as she lofted several game-high five assists.
Holtz 

continued from page 20 
soft shots from the perimeter
continued from page 20 

the press forced several and crashed the boards to keep "Tonight it was a matter ofofficially pronounce the Irish Evansville turnovers. the ball alive and give the Irish the defense getting the offense freshman: Daimon "Blood, Davis turned in another solid second-shot opportunities in started," said Liebscher. "WeSweet and Tears." 
performance as well, netting 12 the key. worked on man-to-man all Also making a strong bid points, snatching two steals Freshman point guard Karen week and it ended up being the 
For the facts call )1lur local Red Cross. or write, 
were Daimon "Oh, Sweet Child and helping the 5-8 Liebscher Robinson found the net for key to the game. Its good to get 
AIDS 
+
:\nlrrican Red Cross ==: 
1\I!Shington. DC 20006 
o' Mine" and Daimon in the paint by grabbing five eight points--as did senior win like this and get the team "Nutcracker" Sweet. rebounds. Diondra Toney and freshman going in the right direction." 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
SOPHOMORES RIDER NEEDED Kevin Sproule· This one's for you!!· • Jules" 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-F5 SUMMER PROGRAM SMC & NO 291-7153. LONDON F5 (MAY 24-JUNE 23) ROME 
SOPHOMORES One-way from Wesk:hesteof\IY!CT;NJ 
The DATING GAME is coming! back 1o NO on 3'11 or 3'12.
NOTICES 
(JUNE 18 F5 JULY 17). TRAVEL IN 
GONG SHOW TONIGHT!! HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D. IRELAND, F5 SCOTLAND, FRANCE, GONG SHOW TONIGHT!!
Dad will only let me bring the carlo school 683-8889-2n-3097. GERMANY, SWITZ F5 TAKE UP TO 9 
Beware Carroll Hall and Notre Dame. A nI travel wilh someone! Can Chris Walsh TYPING AVAILABLE CREDITS. F5 COURSES IN ART, BUSI· Only 2.00 buys a world ot entertainment,
heaton will be on the loose tonight. The x2n3 or 239-5313. 287-4082 NESS, EDU· F5 CATION, H!ST., ITAL· and-~·s for a good cause! 
BONER turns 19. IAN, JUSTICE. F5 INFO MEETING FEB. . GONG SHOW TONIGHT!! TyplngoWordprocesslng 13 IN 351 F5 MADELEVA. PASSPORT 
• • • • • • "" • • • • • • MARDI GRAS UVE MUSIC
WANTED 

GONG SHOW TONIGHT!! 237-1949 PICTURES F5 AVAILABLE. FOR INFO 
BALL • • MARDI GRAS BALL • • MARDI MCCORMICK'S 
GRAS BALL " • " " FRI., FEB. 10 • • TYPING term pllperatepOrta/ let­COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire OR 272-3726. SOUTH DIN. HALL " " " • COME HEAR 125 N. llllc:hlgen CALL PROF. F5 A.A. BLACK 284·4460 N.D'a Own: "Youth In Asia"
ters-t.aumes. Mls., West. Mass. Good Sal.,roorn & THE • • BIG BAND SOUND ' • • Happy Birthday, Julie Love, Kelley 
Frlday-10 pmPick up & delivery available. 2n-5134 bd,travel allowance, beautnul modem LOVE 

10AM-8PM. R & B with "Steel Shank'"
facil~.must love children & be able 1o 

stit;;t;;iifi·j·oo·.;;;;rt·~·iih·chi·;;;;;;;~;;;~ s.turday-11:30 pm
teach one of the following: Tennis, Need a ride BACK from Pi11sburgh on EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL W.S.l.,Sailing city kids-lllo 13 yes-at summer camp on break? can Beth 4071
Feb. 14th MRS. COKER, 233-70011. Watersl<i, Basebaii.Besketbaii,Soccer Lake Geneva(WI) Fun and great experi· 
LaCrosse,Wood,A&C,Rocketry, Photog­A Gift from The Country Harveatar ence Call Mark at 2185 for info NEED MONEY? Sell your textbool<s for raphy,Archery,Pioneering, PREPARING FOR SECOND INTER­
..yal LOVE YOU In a apeclal way. 
VIEWS

CASHII Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIM 19 SHOTS R CULTURAL DIVERSITY or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK Winadu,5 Glen La..Mamaroneck, NY LocatMI In tha uFortuna Studant AWAmNG YOU Ill LUV YOUR FAVOR· PAST,PRESENT,FUTURE
PLANNING FOR THE OFFICE 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. 10543. (914)381-5983 ITE SMC CHIC VISITtf'LANT TRIP. A PRESENTATION MONDAY
C.nterBaaament Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. MONDAY
GIVEN BY MARILYN BURY, ASSis­Houra: 12-5:30 Mon-Frl. 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEBBIE Ill! WE TANT DIRECTOR, CAREER & PLACE·
233-2342 ND uw achool atudenta to· be reps MONDAY
LOVE YOU 11111111 LOVE QUEENS MENT. HESBURGH UBRARYfor Kaplan-SlotH Bar Review cou.._. 
COURT 
LOUNGE, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13
Eam tree bar ravtaw cou,.. plus SS'a. 
AT 8:30P.M. WILL BE REPEATED ON Cell 272-4135. Ask for Sua. 

HELP! I NEED RIDE TO WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15 AT 8:30 Hey Dumpy in Badin, Do you put out?
BRIGHTEN YOUR LIFE!! MEET THAT
LOST/FOUND P.M.
MADISON,WI.ANY WEEKEND OR FOR COUNSELORS-Girls camp in Maine. SOMEONE SPECIAL THROUGH OUR SPRING BREAK. WILL PAY GAS. CALL Good sal,room & bd.,travel allowance, SINGLES CLUB. INTRO SINGLES 
5543. 
BALLOONS!! THEOOORE'5-7:00 car in C1. The importance of !hose disks children and be able to teach one of the LOST: 30 Macintosh diskettes from my beautiful modem facilily,must love CLUB, BOX 3006, BOSTON. MA 02130. 
STUDENT FORUM COME TO STEPHAN CENTER AND 
BALLOONS!I STUDENT FORUM ROCK YOUR BODY TO THEcannot be exagerated. $$$ for informa­following:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing 
STUDENT FORUM MUSICIIIII!! IT'S A FUNDRAISER FORtion leading to the return of them. Please Waterski,Soltbaii,Basketball, Soc· 
BALOONS FOR VALENTINE'S DAY!! MONDAY THE 1989 FASHION SHOW. A BAlil.E
call II 4936or 289-1628. Ornyou already cer,LaCrosse,A&C.Photography, Horse­
Sand a Valentine's Day Balloon to MONDAY OF THE DJS FOR YOU TO ENJOY.
have them. please return them to 230 back.Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp Singing Valentines!!! 
MONDAYKnott Hall. No questions asked. Cralt.Gymnaslics.Call or wnte:Camp Glee Club Singing Valentines Lei us anyone at NDSMC. S2 at Dining Hall

JUST $1.50 AT THE DOOR!II PLEASE Vega, Box 1n1 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 Serenade Your Sweetie! 
SUPPORT THE BCAF FASHION
LOST!-gold high school class ring!! any (617)934-6536 lynn-friends are forever. I miss you lots.
SHOW. SAT. FEB.11 9PMTO 12:45AM. 
CULTURAL DrVERSITYinfo PLEASE contact Jim x4048! let's kami. Iiska

SEE YA THERE Ill 
PAST,PRESENT,FUTURESummer job interview-Average earnings OVERSEAS MONDAY

LOST: TWO GOLD EARRINGS, ONE $3,100. Gain valuable experience in ad· JOBS.$900-2000 mo. HEY EVERYONE IT'S JULIE JACK­
CHICAGO BUS TRIP BETWEEN GRACE AND ST. ED'S, vertising,sales and public relations seUing OBOICE'S BIRTHOAYII CALL HER ATSummer, Yr.round.AII Countrlea,AII MONDAY 
"Windy City Shuttle" oponSONCI byAND THE OTHER IN A GOLD COUCH. yellow page advertising for the Univers~ 4818 TO WISH HER A HAPPY 19TH!!
flelda. FrM Into. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-MONDAY 
tha Student Activities Otllce, wtll runIN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 112625.
PLEASE SEE GINA IN 416 BADIN IF of Notre Dame Telephone Directory. Op­LOVE NORA
this Saturday, Feb. 11. The bus will 
FOUND. VERY GREAT SENTIMENTAL portun~ 1o travel nationwide. Complete leave the Main Circle at 9:45 em and Dave at SMC Weds. afternoon-may weVALUE. training program in North Carolina. Ex­Repunzal:
return at 10 pm. llckets .,.. available meet again.
penses paid training program in Chapel .....SENIORS...•• Sorry I haven't hed a lot of time 1o spend
for $10 at tha Information Desk. let
LOST: Blue 10 ca.. with NO ID and Hill, NC. Looking for enthusiastic, goal ori· CHICAGO TRIP with you lately, but I promise 1o call as
Floor LaFortune. Next ahuttle wtM run She's finally turning 21 Her reign of terror Mluourl Drivers UcanM on WM!naa­entad students for chaNenging well· WED., FEB. 15 soon as things start lo look "up"!
s.turday, Feb. 18. 
has just begun. She's the last one in ourday at JACC. Cell Marla 283-2823. paying summer job. Some internships $12 Love, Hanz quad To get lhe 10 checker's nod. We'llavailable. Interview on campus Monday, SIGNUPS WED.-FRI. 

GIPPERII You Need A Shoe Phone be out on the town So we all can boogieLOST: KEY CHAIN at Sr. Bar, with 3 February 13th. Sign up at Career and (FEB. i-10) You're Never Home!!l How About That down. She's witty, pretty and smart Nokeye labelled 1, 1, S2. LNV8 meaaege Placement Services in the lower level of IN SENIOR CLASS OFFICE ..DESPERATE!! Need ride to NEW OR­
Study Break And Game of Twister ?? 
one has a bigger heart. Hsomething can1 at 3409 or 3419. the Hesburgh Library. ---sENIORs-•• LEANS or vicin~. :W.3'12. Will share

Gimme a Call Your "Poe" Little Friend be found Just wa~ 'til she oomes 'round.
$$. call Tanja x1302 LOST: EYEGLASSES ON SUNDAY WANTED She's got a hot bod And she says, "Oh
HILL STREET knows that Friday means 100 DAYS TILL WE BUM RUSH THE ~·s
BEFORE GAME BETWEEN ALUMNI & NEED ROUNDTRIP AIR TO DENVER NMMC VALENTINE BALLOON SALE CANCUN TRIP-SPRING BREAK 5• my godl" Yes, you, RATIIYAI ACC. CALL SHANNON 2534. FROM CHICAGO OR DETROIT OVER SEND YOUR BOYFRIEND, SWEET· beach front hoteltound trip flight. spot Chicago men can1 wart to see ya'l
SHOW! 
SPRING BREAK CALL DAVE II 2248 HEART OR WHATEVER. A BALLOON left for gir1-S459 call Allison X1288 LOST A GOLD WATCH IN HAYES FOR VALENTINE'S DAY. ON SALE IN 
R. Bud says, "Friday means no OLD 
HEALY ON MONDAY. IF FOUND THE DINING HALLS. TONY A Mark U, I've noticed you, loO. Why not
SWILL and only 100 days till we BUM 
PLEASE CALL 2666. I hope you have liked your gifts give me 'a call this weel<Emd 1'1
RUSH THE SHOW111" FRESHMEN SKI TRIP so farl There is still more to oome
FOR SALE

WILL THE SCUM WHO TOOK MY COAT SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 19 AT SWISS KEVIN C. FROM THE SUB OFFICE,bet 10&12 VALLEY ncKETS GO ON SALE FEB 
IrS THE GONG SHOWII THE ASAKO DOLL IS SICKIIII Your mon,PLEASE RETURN MY GLASSES. 78 celica hatchback, 5 speed, air sun 7-10 IN THE FRESHMAN OFFICE ON LOVELY friends hope you feel I CAN'T SEE WO THEM. AT LEAST roof, 63k, mechanically sound, $950, call 2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. TONY A 
Coming this Friday to Notre Dame AWESOME soon... Genl<i deBU ka? TURN THEM IN TO LOST AND FOUND. 239-7178, 8 to 5 I AM OBSESSED WITH YOUII
Tockets at Junior Class Office SUMMER JOBS KEVIN C.
for 2.00 Lost: 10, detex, key and money at Mor­TWA $200 VOUCHER Best Offer Kevin ALL LANDWATER SPORTS rissey 3rd floor off campus SYR on Sat· x2334 PRESnGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL UPDATE 
GONG SHOW!! urday night. PLEASE return at least the ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS GONG SHOW!! SKI TRIPI SKI TRIPI SKI TRIPI NOSMC REPS:Get moving on producing the film 
10, detex, and key to 239 Siegfried, or For Sale:Roundtrip plane ticket to NEAR LAKE PLACID FROSH. Ski Trip-Feb.19,tix: N0-2nd which oould win fame and $ lor your mail them, no questions asked. Or call Newark,NJ from SB. REAL CHEJ\P! call CALL1~73 floor,LaFortune,frosh.office SMC-dining dorm. Some dorms have alraady x4826. Rob 3244 Happy 19th Birthday, Julie! hell, dinner Tix on sale Feb. 7-10 finished! 
Luv ya, Betsy) CLEAR,RIMMED VALENTINE'S DAY AT IRISH GAR· Janet: you· St. granting my
FOUND:PAIR OF SYNTHESIZER,YAMAHA OX7 drtigal· ································································ Thank Jude, for 
GLASSES SOMETIME LAST SEMES· DENS MON-SAT 12:30-5:30 BAL­YOUTH IN ASIA LIVE AT McCOR· I had a great time yasterday. Thanks for prayers. Pray to St. Jude when nothing
full midi call Greg 234-6355 

TER NEAR LYONS'MORRISSEY.CALL LOONS & FLOWERS NOSMC CAMPUS MICK'S the memories. else seems to work. ERIC AT 4147. IF YOU THINK THESE DELIVERY MCVISA Friday 10th 10:00pm. Love, RC
CONTINENTAL BUMP-ANYWHERE IN 

ARE YOURS,THEY PROBABLY ARE!II 
U.S.A cheap call steve x283-1079 

Sf SWIMSUIT ISSUES-FREE with a MIKE PIERRE HAPPY VALENTINE'SLOST: BLACK AND WHITE nNEED $100 Valentine's Day Purchase at IRISH 
round trip plane ticket March 4-12 KATE MC KENNA DAYILONG WOOL COAT. IF FOUND GARDENS
O'Har&f>alm Srings $368 Jane X1810 KATE MCKENNA The cheese hath matted ... The stage is -S.S.
PLEASE CALL KARIN AT 272·9903. 
KATE lAC KENNA set... The flower heth willed..
(LOST IN MADELEVA CLASSROOM FREE KEVIN COSTNER POSTERS with KATE MC KENNA Roger will bring forth deathLAST WEEK) a $100 Valentine's Day Purchase al KATE MC KENNA under the watchful eye of Satan,IRISH GARDENS IrS FRIUIDA Y NIGHT!!I
TICKETS

PEARL NECKLACE WITH BROKEN ................................................................. 
PAAAHHRTAAYIII CLASSIC ROCK BAND SEEKING
Tony and the Minions of Gozar BASSCLASP LOST AT JUNIOR FORMAL. AVOID THE RUSH! COME IN SOON shall seduce those weak of farth.
PLEASE CALL ANN AT 264-5405. TO TYPE IN YOUR VALENTINE'S
HELP I HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAYIII PLAYER. Cell 1187 (Stave) need TWO GA's for the Louisville 
CLASSIFIEDS. LOST Jim and the Walking Boots of Sodom 
game!! Ask for John at x3459. Bob, Student Night was amazing!
will lead us to lhe founlain,I lost my long, blue Aldollo over· coat at Remember your VALENTINE! or friend.

................................................................. Thanks, Jessica P .S. Can we do rt again?
Remember Valentine's DayHELP! I need sl<iA tkts for NDSMU b­
senior ber last Friday night. I've got some­Buy CANDYGRAMSI at both dining halls Pat shrouded in her majesty's robeone elsa's. Min has a name tag in ~-H Wed-Fri. ONLYIII $1
ball. Call Kelly, x2611 LOVE, EVELYN, JENNIFER hi eg
shall carouse again with Rasputinyou've got my coat and I've got yours, 

HEATHER AND JENNIFER call Scott Spurr 27HJ680 and we can CANDYGRAMS!II Ted, with the Jackal of Punjab 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
will wander amongst lheexchange them CANDYGRAMS!I!

I PERSONALS 

WHArS UP FOR VALENTINE'S DAY? prophecies of Nostradamus. 
Happy Valentine's Dey 1o Betsy, Carol, VALENTINE BALLOONSIIIWANTED: BASS PLAYER for Hard Rock Wendy, Colleen and Karin -JBUY YOUR BALLOONS FOR ONLY Tom will drink Vodka $2.00 TODAY IN THE DINING HALL. and all wiN be destroyed. 

FOR RENT I 
Hey Sexy-GET SOME outfit playing originals and some covers 
Must PLAY BASS and show for rehear· FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK­sal. Call Don x3068, or Paul x1847.
-Oiclated by Hormones A Warm Welcome to Wonder·
THEY WILL WILL BE DELIVERED Womanhood Cathy Stacy Too bad lhe 
..100 DAYS nLL WE BUM RUSH THE passion p~ is so far away FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL ANYWHERE ON NO OR SMC CAM· 
SHO ..FRIDAY NIGHT, HILL STREET. LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review ld.
FOR ALL NO Acnvt11ES. RESERVE PUSES.
GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID NOW FOR All UPCOMING EVENTS. GET YOURS TODAYIII
TOOAYII 12:15 OOME STEPS 111-471-5711. 
Mrly. Kaplen-SMH revlewa to many 

-available here In South Bend. Found: one very ripe banana 
Trenafw back home tor sum,_, Dis­HI Kitty end Rita! The countdown Ia

Thanks, Paull!!
counts for Kapten LSAT alumni. 

on for Daytona end It won't be shady.
TK&PG
HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT THE ~before March 2 Catl272-4135. ANTOSTAL IRISH B&B DURING JPW. LOCATED 2 MARY
Ask for Sua. ANTOSTAL Ml FROM N.D. FOR INFO. RING 272· ANTOSTAL 
GONG SHOW TONIGHTII GONG n38. T.G.I.F.II
Taka Time For Prayer ,F4WMI., Fab.
SUMMER JOBS GENERAL MEETING I 
SHOW TONIGHT!! 0nty 2.00 buys a15, &-11 p.m. In a mlnl-retrea lor _.

All LANDWATER SPORTS MONDAY FEB 13
T.G.F.T.A.T.:Thank God for Tina end world of entertainment, and-H's for a,_ at 1104 N. Notre Dame Ave (4
PRE5nGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 9:00 bike. IIOUih of the ctrcle.) A light IIIMI2 ROOM EFFICIENCY SINGLE PER· Tim! Frldaya on WVFt 3p-5p. 
good cause! GONG SHOW TONIGHT!! SON 288-{)955 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR HESBURG LIB AUD 
GONG SHOW TONIGHTIIwttl be Included. Donations eccept8d.

LAKE BALLOONS BALLOONSFor .-.Information contact Sr. Ar­

Apts. for rent: small studio and lovely 2 PLACID. CALL 1~73 VALENTINE SPECIAL $20 bedroom at 1320 Hillcrest (one mile west CAN'T AFFORD ROSES? A SCENTED To a premed throat: Hyou need a "crutch"
lene Knlola at 288-2885. of NO). 232-9506 for appt. 1o celebrate the end of your heU w-.
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spend BALLOON BOUQUET IS THE AN­Happy 21st Simmerwimp! We lovelet me know
7nta41daya at Spring B-k'a HOT· SOPHOMORES SWER you,cheeka, mooey moocho. MLB LAS
An efficierlcy225.00tnonth, all utilities in­SENOR KELLY'S 258-5133 OR 258-5115
TEST rMOrl. The Clarendon Plaza cluded. SB historical district 232·9506 for homa of Penrod'e'The Plantation Club ALL YOU CAN EAT TACO BAR, JUST FOR FREE DEUVERY OR PICK UP AT Tonight at THEODORE'S don't mias: appt. end the largest pool deck ON THE $4 513 E. MCKINLEY, MISHAWAKA. WE DONE PROPERLY Guest D.J.'s from New York rocking the
BEACH! $1115 par per80n limited THIS FRIDAY FROM 5:30 tiH 7:30 ALSO FEATURE MUGS & BASKETS Oh·all right, mother A 2 bedroonf house. One m~e west of MEET THERE OR TAKE THE BUS WITH EITHER HERSHEY KISSES OR house with your favorite music! Doors
apace. Cell todey B-kawey Tours 1­NO at 214 W. Anglea. 232-9506 lor appt. 1100-444-7384. FROM THE MAIN CIRCLE AT 5:30 TEOOY BEARS. open at !O:OOP.M. 

14 
The Observer 
Magic to miss All-Star Game 
Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. It was vintage Magic Johnson, a weaving drive through traffic resulting in a layup and two points for the Los Angeles Lakers. 
A work of art, until Johnson touched down and landed with a torn hamstring. 
Johnson gave a painful grimace and grabbed his left leg after the play, which oc­curred with 1:57 remaining in the third quarter of a 121-118 loss to Golden State Wednesday night. 
Johnson's m]ury was diagnosed as a partial tear of the left hamstring. Team
I 
physician Dr. Robert Kerlan 1 estimated that Johnson will be \ sidelined from seven to 10 days.
\ 
"He will be receiving treat­
l 
ment and will be re-evaluated 
next Monday," Lani Quon, a 
j 
public relations secretary for 
Distributor for 
Mountain Man 
Nut & Fruit Co. 
the Lakers, said Thursday. 
By Monday, the NBA all-Star Game will have been played. And the 6-foot-9 Johnson, a seven-time All-Star, will have missed it. 
"I think it happened when I planted to take off," said Johnson, who had 28 points, eight rebounds and 12 assists before leaving the game. "When I tried to run back downcourt it started getting painful. 

"Missing the All-Star Game is a big disappointment, not just the game but all of the fes­tivities that surround it." 
Johnson, 29, was the leading vote-getter in the Western Con­ference of the fans for Sunday's game at Houston. 
Ironically, the Lakers lost Johnson just as they were get­ting starting guard Byron Scott back. 
1 0% Discount to Students and Staff at NO and SMC 
18061 State Road 23 
Near Ironwood 
South Bend. Indiana 46637 

1 
CIIIIEIE·AIIDICAIIIESTAUUIIT l ·Authentic a.c:hu8ft and Hunen Tase. 
) ' Bestcrucml ~ll 7 dayst Moa.-Tbura.ll:30 am~ 10 pm. Fri.-&1.11:30 am to 11 pm only $4 95 S\111. &Holidan 11:30 am to 10 pm
l 
(Regular · $7 25) tLunch· es S tarting at-----$3•45I · Dinn t • $4 95
Fried ~old Honey Chickent ers S arting _at_-----• w1th th1s coupon Bllnquet-Roomsllll•ilable for up to 200 until Feb. 28;1989 130 Dixie Hwy.• Boscalcm«< (IMXI to Jlcmdall'•Ian) 
Best Tastet 
.. e' 
Best pnc . 
t Lunch special only $3.45 
t Includes: l 1_Daily sou ' P 
2. Egg Roll
l 3 F · d R'
' . ne 1ce
l 4. One Entree ' 
Z7Z..7375 
with a unique Valentine Gift e# from The Country Harvester 
~
Valentine Candies, Heart Baskets, 


Valentine Gift Bags & More 
Located in the basement of LaFortune Student Center rV') ... 12:00 -5:30 '--v/ ....,. Mon -Fri 

~ 
5tt Do~~
P(IV£ 
Don't drink and drive 

OPENUMOH.­
SAT.,1N-. 
• 
Fresh Cut Flowers • Tropical Plants 

• 
Floral Arrangements • Corsages 


• Group Discounts 16616 Edison Rd. Mishawaka, IN 46545 256-2129 

Just 2 of Notre Dame 

~~·~'U#~'lt..A't£~·.3~~ 
~ 1HE CALtco GARDEN 
Enjoy a festival of handmade gifts and country decor. potpourri and candles. Our unrque co-op concept features over 70 area craftspeople as well as

~ 
from all over the country· We're filled to the rafters ~ 0~ 259-9888 with fr-:sh ideas... for you' ~ ~ "'t:::--..~~ Open Mon. · Sat. 10 · 9. Sun. 12 · 5 ~ ~~ 100 Center, U.S. 33, Mtshawaka, IN ..)"4
..9'~·~-q-~1?1.~·~9·9'~·-Q-·V·~ 
Come Join 
Us For 

THE f10RRIS IN~ Valentine's Day 
Of NOTRE Ds\r1E 
New Dinner Menu 
Complimentary Valentine's Dessert with each dinner. 
Call for Reservations 234-0140 
Flower Market 
Buyers Market Place 
5901 N. Grape Rd 
Mishawaka, IN 
WHY PAY MORE? WE DELIVER TO CAMPUS AND NATIONWIDE
•
~AILIL(QXQ)N 1B3(Q)1UQ1U1E1f§ $9.95 local only plus delivery 


VISA, MASTER CARD, AMERICAN EXPRESS 
~ 
1 
l 1 
THE•EXTRAORDINARY·FLORAL·CQ 
\~ 
VALENTINE'S DAY FEB 14 
Roses, Fresh Flower Arrrangements, Balloons, Blooming Plants & Gifts 
20% off with Student I.D. 
Open 9-6 M-F; 9-5 Sat 703 W. Edison Rd Down the Road from the 
e Deliver 
256-7277 

Stadium 
The Country Harvester 
r# .. 
CJLOVED 
C) C? 
,Say I Love You 





AP Photo Michigan's Rumeal Robinson (21) moves toward the basket against Indiana's Joe Hillman In a game played earlier this season. Robinson and the Wolverines beat Iowa In double-overtime Thursday night. 
TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 
Notre 

7:30, 9:30 
Cinematheque 
The Observer page 15 
Michigan beats Iowa in 20T; Wolfpack whips N. Carolina 
Associated Press 
lOWA CITY, Iowa--Loy Vaught scored the final six Mic­higan points, including a layup with two seconds left in the second overtime, to give No. 10 Michigan a 108-~07 victory over N0'.·8 IOW¥8n ThBrsday night. 
Michigan, 18-4, blew an 18­point lead in the final 9 112 minutes of regulation, then rallied from deficits of six points in the first overtime and five in the second to remain tied for second place in the Big Ten with Illinois at 6-3, 2 112 games behind first-place In­diana. 
Iowa, which was down by as many as 20 points in the first half, fell to 17-5 and 5-4 with its first home loss of the season. 
Glen Rice led Michigan with 24 points. Sean Higgins scored 22, including three 3-pointers in the first overtime. Rumeal Robinson added 20. Vaught finished with 18 points and Terry Mills 12. 
Roy Marble topped Iowa with a career-high 32 points after going 1-for-7 with two points in the first half. B.J. armstrong and Ed Horton added 19 points each, while Ray Thompson had 15 and Matt Bullard 13. 
NC State 98, UNC 88 
RALEIGH, N.C.--Chucky Brown scored a career-high 29 points to lead five North Carolina State players in double figures Thursday night and 17th-ranked Wolfpack ran away fr.om No. 6 North Carolina for a 98-88 victory. 
The Wolfpack, 15-4, took over sole possession of first place in the Atlantic Coast Conference with a 6-2 mark. North 
LINCOLNWOOO MOTEL 3300 L.W.W. (US 20) Under New Management Open 24 hours 
All modem clean units (219) 234-4063 
AND 
YOUR 
PRINTED TO YOUR SPECIFICATIONS. CALL UMBRELLA GRAPHICS 
P.O. BOX 928 
234-4554

NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Carolina, 18-5, dropped to 5-3 and has lost its last two, both league games. 
Rodney Monroe shrugged off foul trouble to score 24 points for North Carolina State, while reserve Kelsey Weems had 17, and Brian Howard and Chris Corchiani added 12 each. 
The Wolfpack simply ran away from the Tar Heels, using an early spurt to take com­mand and getting another run late in the first half to run up a big lead. North Carolina, with just five points in the closing five minutes of the first half, battled back to within nine before running out of steam and time. 
Jeff Lebo had 22 points for North Carolina. 
Illinois 62, OSU 60 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill.--Nick An­derson scored 22 points for Il­linois and Ohio State's Jay Bur­son was held to less than 10 for the first time in 34 games Thursday night as the seventh­ranked Fighting Illini defeated the 16th-ranked Buckeyes 62­60. 
Ohio State had opportunities to tie the game in the final seconds, but Jerry Francis and Perry Carter each missed jump shots. Illinois finally con­trolled the ball with one second remaining to preserve the vic­tory and claim sole possession of second place in the Big Ten. 
The Fighting Illini improved to 19-3 overall and 6-3 in the con­ference, leaving them 2 1t2 games behind first-place In­diana. Ohio State fell to 16-6 and 5-4. 
Illinois went ahead for good with 2: 23 to play when Ken Bat­tle's driving layup gave the Fighting Illini a 60-58 lead. 
Burson, who was averaging 20 points per game, scored only five in the first half and nine in the game. 
MUCH MORE!l DESIGN SCREEN 
OU 112, Mizzou 105 
NORMAN, Okla.--Stacey King scored 32 points and made a crucial three-point play in the final minute as No. 5 Oklahoma beat No. 3 Missouri 112-105 Thursday night as the losing Tigers were forced to play without head coach Norm Stewart. 
Stewart was hospitalized Thursday afternoon for a bleeding ulcer, and school offi­cials said he watched the game from his hospital bed as assis­tant Rich Daly ran the team. Stewart's top assistant, Bob Sundvold, was suspended in­definitely by the school on Wed­nesday in the wake of reports he allegedly purchased a plane 
ticket for  former  Tiger  P.J.  
mays.  
The  victory  moved  the  

Sooners, 20-3 overall, into a tie 
with Missouri for first place in the Big Eight at 6-1. The Tigers, 20-4, had an 11-game winning streak snapped. 
Byron Irvin led Missouri with 22 points. 
Arizona 78, Oregon 57 
EUGENE, Ore.--Anthony Cook had 20 points and Matt Muehlebach scored Arizona's first eight points of the second half as the top-ranked Wildcats went on to their lOth straight victory, 78-57 over Oregon on Thursday night. 
Arizona led 47-33 at halftime, then Muehlebach went on his scoring tear. The Wildcats led by as much as 78-54 with 1:48 to play. 
The Wildcats improved to 18­2 overall and 12-1 in the Pac-10, good for a two-game lead over Stanford. 
Jud Buechler added 16 points for Arizona, while freshman guard Matt Othick had 15. 
Frank · Johnson; Richard Lucas and Keith Reynolds each had 12 for the Ducks, 8-13 and 3-8. Reynolds had 10 points in the first half. 


-~ -----~------~~~~----------------------------­
page 16 The Observer Friday, February 10, 1989 
Irish wrestling prepares to host intrastate rival Indiana 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Ranked in both major Top 20 polls, the Notre Dame wres­tling team has achieved its goal of achieving national respect. 
But state supremacy is what the Irish have on their mind tonight. Notre Dame (8-2) hosts Indiana University at 8 in the Joyce ACC. 
"This is (Indiana's) big meet because they want to dominate the state, and they know they have to beat Notre Dame and Purdue to do that," said Irish coach Fran McCann. "We want that too. We beat Purdue, so we have to do this." 
The Irish downed Purdue 23­15 Jan. 7 at West Lafayette. 
Notre Dame received some good news earlier this week with the release of the latest coaches' poll. The poll has the Irish ranked 20th, marking just the second time all year Notre Dame has been included in that Top 20. 
Amateur Wrestling News, which has been considerably more impressed with the Irish 
Trojans 
continued from page 20 
nipped USC earlier in this season by just one point. 
In fact, the 7-15 Trojans have lost only one game by more than ten points, dropping a 97­69 decision to this week's top­ranked college basketball team, Arizona. 
Despite the appearance of their record and losing streak, 
H the Trojans have been in nearly
ii every game until the final buz­
'i\ 
zer, with eight of their 15losses having been by five points or less. 
this season, has Notre Dame ranked 13th in its most recent Top 20 poll.
Indiana (9-8) has undergone a strange year. Ranked in the Top 20 early in the season, in­jury problems are keeping the Hoosiers from living up to that billing. 
Opposing teams have not 
· been too sympathetic to the Hoosiers' plight as Indiana has lost its last five dual meets, two of them coming to Top 10 foes Oklahoma and Oklahoma State. Despite Indiana's recent slide, McCann certainly isn't too confident. 
"We're going to have to wrestle a lot better than that to beat Indiana," McCann said after his team's 37-7 win over Miami (Ohio) Wednesday. 
The Irish never have had much luck on the mat with the Hoosiers. Indiana has won seven of the nine meetings be­tween the two teams, including a 41-9 romp two years ago and a 30-10 triumph last season. 
But Notre Dame is a much more effective dual-meet team 
Southern Cal head coach George Raveling, an assisant coach for the US Olympic bas­ketball team in 1984 and 1988, comes to Notre Dame with nine returning letterman and four starters from last year's 7-21 season. The Trojans return ex­perience and posted a 7-2 record during a summer tour in Brazil, but have yet to see results in the win column. 

than it has been in recent seasons. The Irish went 7-6last year and 1-11 in 1986-87, but this season appear headed for their most successful record since McCann arrived and upgraded the program in 1984. 
Notre Dame's only losses have come to eighth-ranked Oklahoma and 12th-ranked Ne­braska. 
The senior trio of 142-pound Pat Boyd (3-1 in dual meets, 16-3 overall), 134-pound Jerry Durso (8-1, 27-4) and 177-pound Chris Geneser (8-1, 25-5) and junior 118-pounder Andy Radenbaugh (8-1, 30-7) form the heart of Notre Dame's team. 
The Irish also have an effec­tive pair of sophomores in 150­pound Todd Layton (8-1, 22-7) and 158-pound Mark Gerardi (6-2, 17-11). 
Notre Dame also has three freshman starters in 126-pound Marcus Gowens (5-4, 19-12), 190-pound Curt Engler (2-4, 6-7) and heavyweight Chuck Weaver (5-4. 8-13). 
should be ready to come off the bench, as he did last season when he shot 35% from three­point land, canning 50 trifectas on the year. 
Among Southern Cal's other threats on offense are senior forward Chris Moore (12.6 points, 5.3 reb.), center Alan Pollard and sixth-man Chris Munk who give the Trojans rebounding strength. 
Student Manager Applications and 
Job Descriptions for 1989-90 
I' 
Are 

! 
Now Available. Pick them up in the Office of Student Activities 315 La Fortune 
Application deadline is March 1, 1989 
ND tennis to host first Quadrangular meet 
By BOB MITCHELL reach~d the 1~ Mid-Sports Writer Amencan Indoor Fmals, pos­sesses an excellent background 
On Saturday, the Notre and aggressive style of play. Dame men's tennis team will At 3:00, the Irish will con­be in a very unusual position.. tinue its 31-year rivalry with 
They will be favored to win. 
With a schedule full of nation­ally ranked opponents, the Irish will take a breather and play three lesser regional op­ponents. The Irish squad will host Akron, Toledo, and Bowling Green in the first ever Notre Dame Quadrangular. NotreDamehasacombined41­3 overall record against its three foes. 
"We find ourselves in an un­usual predicament on Satur­day," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss reflecting on the fact that his' team has been a heavy underdog in three out of its four mat~hes. "Having been under­dogs most of the year, being favored is a refreshing change." 
Realistically, Notre Dame should easily dispose of all three teams. In its first contest at 8 a.m., the sleepy Irish team will roll on the court to take on the Akron Zips. The Irish boast an unblemished 2-0 series record against the Zips, who they have not played since 1981. 
Next on the agenda for the Irish is the University of Toledo. The Rockets, who fell to the Irish in 1987-88, will try to end a 19-year losing streak. Toledo's No. 1 player, Brian Draxl, is one of the better players in the field. Draxl, who Bowling Green. Notre Dame will look to extend a nine-year winning streak. Last year, the Irish soundly rolled over Bowling Green by a 9-0 marg~. 
Against such stiff compeb­tion, the Irish (2-2) must take one match at a time. 
"Wehavetofocusonwinning the match at hand," said Bayliss, whose career record is 301-109. "You can't look ahead or back." 
There are two questions for the Irish ~s they prepare for play. One Is the status of No.2 player Brian Kalbas. Kalbas has been fighting a sore shoulder throughout the four­game season, and is q~estion­able for Saturday's action. The other question mark is the pos­sibility of a letdown after a 5-4 upset of Ohio State on Feb. 4. 
"I always worry about a let­down," said Bayliss. "But I hope not." 
It is not often that a team can pick up three wins in one day. Therefore, Bayliss believes that Saturday presents a golden opportunity for his team. 
"It is a chance to get some confidence," said Bayliss. "Saturday will be a chance f~r our players to pad therr records. Winning is contagious and it builds on itself." 
We want to know! 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 


page 17

Friday, February 10, 1989 The Observer 
Fencing teams look to maintain perfect marks 
Not really. In fact, DeCicco cannot understand why or where some of these fantastic athletes came from, amidst a sea of other opportunities. 
"Why do kids come to Notre Dame who haven't been recruited? I can't tell you. I wish I knew. We have guys like Phil Leary and Joel Clark, bona fide gold nuggets when it comes to fencing. What possessed them to come here? It's a mys­tery, and yet you pray that every student will make that kind of decision to go to a school for the right reason. 
The Irish will face another test in the Midwest this weekend as they travel to Evanston, Ill., for a meet against Northwestern, Vander­bilt, Case Western Reserve, CSU-Long Beach and Ohio State. Perhaps they will return with some answers to the ques­tions that DeCicco has been puzzled by. Perhaps they will return with new fencers rising to the forefront. Or perhaps they will just simply return, and continue their winning ways. 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
there, and we'll do our best." 
Notre Dame (9-23-2), which dropped two straight games to Michigan-Dearborn last weekend, will be without the services of three key players this weekend. 
Left wing Tim Kuehl will miss one game, while defen­semen Roy Bemiss and Tim Caddo will be out for the entire series, all because of discipli­nary reasons. 
Notre Dame will feel the loss of Kuehl especially, as he cur­rently leads the team with 18 goals and is second on the team in scoring with 33 points. 
"It certainly doesn't help our cause at all," said Schafer. "It's two senior defensemen and one junior. But that's just the way it is. We'll have to do our best without them." 
Michigan {17-11-4) is cur­rently in second place in the CCHA, trailing only Michigan State. The Wolverines are un­beaten in their last eight games (7-0-1), and have won their last seven road games. 
"Fans will have a chance to see a team like we'd like to be in a few years," said Schafer. "They are fast skaters, they're strong, and this will be an ex­ample of the type of team that we eventually want to have." 
The Wolverines are led by center Todd Brost (15 goals, 24 assists, 39 points), and left wings Denny Felsner (23-15-38) and Don Stone (21-12-33). Goalie Warren Sharphes owns a 15-7-2 record, a 3.61 goals­against av.erage and an .880 save percentage. 
"We're going to give it our best effort," said Schafer. "We are going to bow our heads, square our jaws, climb into the trenches, and give it all we've got. But we'll bring a white hanky just in case." 
\leneed someone with 
theronfJdmceofa~ 
thededicationof-amarathonerandthe rourageofanexplorer. 
'* need a Peace Cot"pS ~oUiunacer Call us 111-8QC-41U-8510, Ext. 9l. 
PeaceCorps.
• ........,...,..1__ 

By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
Something is happening to the Notre Dame fencing teams. What that something is, head coach Michael DeCicco wishes he knew. 
In a year initially tabbed as one of rebuilding, the Irish fen­cers are off to a flying start. But consider the odds: the men's teams lost six seniors from last year in addition to two more fencers this year as a result of academic in­eligibility. 
The women's team was hit hard by the loss of two seniors, including four-time All Ameri­can Molly Sullivan, not to men­tion the year-long absence of starter Anne Barreda in the foreign study program. 
Yet despite all this, they have combined records of 25-0 to date this season in meet com­petition. 
Could it be the presence of fresh new fencing coaches like Mike Marx? 
Decicco has consistently 
This SpringBreak, 
go Greyhound® instead. 
For just $49'.50 each way, 
you and your friends can afford to pile on Greyhound. Whether it's the beach, the slopes or your hometown, going Greyhound won't cramp your style. 
pointed to the noticeable ef­fects which Marx has had on the kids since being added to the staff last year. Last weekend, in addition to advis­ing Irish fencers during the home meet, Marx coached a small group of fencers from the upstart St. Mary's College pro­gram to a 2-0 finish in their first action of the season aga1nst teams from Oakland Univer­sity and Tri-State. 
As if this weren't enough, Marx officiated for the foil competition while keeping an eye on the women's competi­tion on the next strip. 
"I can't even begin to detail the influence that Mike Marx has had on the kids," stated DeCicco earlier this month. "He had raised the level of competition a full notch." 
Could it be the contribution of first and second-year fen­cers? Of the thirty-eight ath­letes listed on last weekend's rosters for the Irish, an as­tounding twenty-six are either freshmen, sophomores or with­out more than a full year of competitive experience. 

"Those kids have been a big boost to us this season," said DeCicco. "It creates a great deal of enthusiasm when people out of the physical edu­cation program can be given the chance to actually letter in a respectable sport at the var­sity level." 
Or, on the contrary, could it be the example of excellence set forth by the senior and junior starters? The members of this group have so far this year posted combined individ­ual records of 150-18, including two seniors (Derek Holeman, 13-0, and Tim Collins, 14-0) with unbeaten marks and two more seniors (Todd Griffee, 21-3, and Brenda Leiser, 21-4) already with more than twenty vic­tories. 
And lastly-but of utmost importance-could it be the true leadership qualities of the Irish captains? 
How about someone like junior foil captain Joel Clark (Hackettstown, NJ)? Clark is presently fourth man on the foil 
Must present vaiid coiiege I.D·card upon purchase. No other discounts appiy. Tickets are nuntransferabie and good oniy for travei on Grevhound and other parttctpaung earners. Offer Itmned. Greyhound a I so offers Iow Money Saver fares. Some restrictions appiy. Spring Break fare avaiiabie 2/1189 through 4/30189 and ts subJeCt to change wnhout notice. © I989 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
!4.9~ 
each way based on round-trip purchase. 
C.GOGREYHOUND
PIAmlecM! the driving to us= 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
squad, but first in DeCicco's eyes for what he does outside the gym. As captain, Clark has the last word on the formation of the top three starters for each weekend's competition in each weapon. In essence, Clark could put himself in the top foil spot each time and no one could challenge that. 
Yet each weekend, there's Clark at the number-four spot in the roster, unless he has decided for one reason or an­other to bump someone else ahead of him. The team is just that, a team first and individ­uals second. DeCicco admits that Clark has made his job in­finitely easier by Clark's abil­ity to put together the perfect mix of competitors for each meet in an unselfish and knowledgeable manner. 
Does the Irish fencing pro­gram provide lucrative benefits and national exposure to the extent that high school All-Americans are beating down the door to get in to Notre Dame? Does DeCicco wield some type of recruiting magic? 
I;
\: 
page 18 The Observer Friday, February 10, 1989 
'li 
r·,. 
·' 
j, 
Indoor track team ready for Central Collegiates
\' 
1!
,, 
\l 
t
,.. 
d 
t 
1: :' 
j, 
j!• 
1;: 
l )' 
I I ~ 
)'
·' 
ii 
il :
1. 
I 
l 
I 
1\ 
'l 
I 
) 
f ., 
L 
J' 
n
ti; 
I
( 
·.l \1} 
\,l 
~ : 
\, 
., 
< \ 
: 
·~~; 
~; 
I 
r.l 
ll\ \ 
li' 

I'
I 
:\ 
• I 
I 
! 
'I 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO "It's kind of a 'super confer­Sports Writer ence,' " said Assistant Coach Tim Connelly, "because it con­
Knute Rockne's legend lives sists of a few conferences put on in more than just football as together. There is a team a meet he founded as track co­championship, and since it's ach in the 1920's enters into its the 63rd meeting there's a lot 63rd year of existence, the of prestige involved." Central Collegiate Conference The meet will be held on Championships. Friday and Saturday on the 
Some of the best track teams Meyo track in the Loftus Cen­of the Midwest will be attend­ter. Over 20 teams will vie for ing this extravaganza, includ­top performances, and in the ing teams from the Big 10, Mid­process several atheletes will American, Midwestern qualify for post-season compe­Collegiate and Mission Valley tition at the IC4A champion­Conferences. Independent ships and the NCAA champion­teams like Notre Dame, Loyola ships. (Ill.) and Marquette will also "Every race is going to have be competing. a potential NCAA qualifier," 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The NO Men's Volleyball Club hosts the University of Guelph Saturday in the Joyce ACC. Gametime is set for 7:30p.m., and admission is free. -The Observer 
The NO Squash Club is seeking students to help organize the club for the upcoming year. Please call Bill Murray at x32ll for information. -The Observer i 
Off-Campus hockey has a game Monday night at 
11:45 against Morrissey. All those who have not paid their $5, please bring it. Those who can not make it to the game should call 289-1124. -The Observer 
The SMC-NO women's lacrosse club is looking for a volunteer coach. Anyone interested or wanting more information should call Kathryn Benz at 284-5482. -The Observer 
An advanced speed and conditioning class will be held at the Loftus Center beginning Monday and continuing through March 1. Classes will be Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays from 5:30 to 6:30p.m. Physical examinations are recommended before partici­pation. For more information, call Scott Rairdon at the weight room (239-7890). -The Observer 
The SMC-ND women's lacrosse club meeting will be Monday at 6:30p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone interested in joining should attend. -The Observer 
TheSMC lntramural3-on-3basketball tournament, co-sponsored by Schick, will begin Sunday at 1 p.m. -The Observer 
The NVA downhill ski trip has been rescheduled to today. The bus leaves the library circle at 5:30 p.m. New signees are welcome. The $17 fee covers equipment, a lift ticket and transportation. Register at the NVA office. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 

~~~[N] @Ui1~ U[}i)® ~(UJ[N] [K\~[N]@~ 
FRIDAY AT 10:00 
SATURDAY OPEN 9:00-2:00 AM 

Remember. 
FRIDAY LUNCH 12:00-2:00 pm 

said Connelly. Searcy and Ron Markezich, Dame atheletes expected to 
"The goal for our team is to both out due to injuries. Both shine at the meet. Freshman place as high as we can in the will be running today. phenom Raghib Ismail and meet and get some qualifying Sprinter Searcy will compete football teammate Rusty Set­times on the way to doing in the 500-meter sprint, and zer are again expected to make that," continued Connelly. senior distance runner the finals, and junior hurdler "Both the IC4A's and the Markezich will run the 5000. Glenn Wilson has been men­NCAA's are attainable, and we "Basically all I expect to do tioned by Connelly as a poten­said from the beginning of the is compete," said Searcy. "I've tial scorer. season that we'd like to win this missed the previous two meets Notre Dame will also be run­meet." and I'm out of shape. I'd just ning a middle-distance relay, 
Last week Notre Dame like to see how my leg holds up, with Richard Culp running the played host to the Meyo Invita-and see how I do against the quarter mile, Brian Peppard tional. In a meet where 17 competition." running the 880, Mike Rogan events were contested, 11 es-Notre Dame still, however, running the three-quarter mile, tablished meet records and will be without senior All-and Ryan Cahill finishing off eight set Meyo track records. American Dan Garrett. He con-with a mile run. 
Though Notre Dame got tinues to be sidelined with an Action kicks off at 3 p.m. several qualifying times, it did achilles heel injury. today and is followed by a Sat-it without co-captains Jan There will be many Notre urday starting time of 9 a.m. 
o~====================================~o 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
·Applications are currently being accepted for the following position: 
Controller 

• 
Aquire an understanding of the internal control of an overall accounting system. 

• 
Gain practical hands-on accounting experience. 

• 
Be directly responsible for the financial operations; including purchasing, payroll, receivables, and payables of a small business. 

• 
Gain knowledge of state, local, and federal taxes 

• 
Must be a junior accounting major. 


Call Chris Donnelly at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position. 
=Ihe=-Obser\{er-_
-·= 

.9Ln 'E~c{usive Invitation to Open 1louse 
COLDWELL BANKER Anchor Real Estate cordially invites the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Faculty and Staff to Tea on Sunday, the 14th of February from 2:00 -4:00 
558 East Angela, Residence of the Late Prof Duffy Department of English Literature 

YOUR HOSTS: James F. Peacock Lorna J. Busch 


Friday, February 10, 1989 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
monkshood 
Berke Breathed 

COMICS 
Bloom County 
Friday 
11 :00 a.m. Sophomore Literary Festival Workshop with Lisel Mueller, Library Lounge. 
&:00 p.m. Track: Central Collegiate Conference, Loftus Sports Center. 
7:30 p.m. ND Hockey vs. University of Michigan, Ice Arena. 
7:30p.m. Gong Show, Washington Hall. 
8:00 p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival Reading by Stuart Dybek, short story writer, Library Auditorium. 
SATURDAY 
8:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. NDM Tennis vs. University of Akron, Toledo, Bowling Green, Eck Pavilion. 
1:00 p.m. SMC Basketball vs. Grace College, Angela Athletic Facility. 
12:00 p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival Workshop with Stuart Dybek, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
1:00 p.m. NDM Basketball vs. US~, Joyce ACC. 
7:00p.m. Black Cultural Arts Talent Show, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. NDW Basketball vs. St. Louis, Joyce ACC. 
Noon-3:00 p.m. Track-Central Collegiate Conference, Loftus Sports Center. 
SUNDAY 
3:00 p.m. SMC Department of Music guest recital by Angela Cofer, soprano, Little Theatre. 
4:00 p.m. Department of Music Concert, Notre Dame Col­legium Musicum, Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Sunday 
10:30 a.m.Lecture during Sunday Liturgy, Associate of the Sisters, Church of Loretto, Saint Mary's. 7·8:30 p.m."Preparing to be Christian in the World of Work," Father Drew Christiansen, Keenan Chapel. 

15 U.S. illustrator 31 Donjons 49 "Jalousie" composer
20 "The-ofa 33 Demagogue's activity 50 Like a godwit 
Faun": Debussy 51 Correlative
35 Poet Ogden 

22 N. African 
52 Aim
falcons 36 Old Greek flask 54 Bus. word 
37 Harem24 Improvises 55 Profane, in

chambers 

25 Catchall abbr. Hawaii
38 Sodom evacuee 26 Agrippina's son 56 Manasseh, to 
43 Resolve Joseph27 Sketched 

44 Breadwinner 

57 Explosive 29 Baltic island 46 Sly 
59 Athens-to­30 Trainee: Abbr. 48 Theater parts Bucharest dir. 
ACROSS 
1 Young Atlantic codfish 6 Companies of singers 
12 "Sailing on obscene wings athwart-": Coleridge 
15 Illumined by brightest day 16 French playground 17 Beforehand 18 French friend 19 Feasts 21 Gusher 23 Salamander 24 Proceed on 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

28 Condiment from evaporated ocean water 
31 One who pads checks 32 Italian port city 34 Finnish lake, to a Swede 
35 "There midnight's all a-glimmer, and --":Yeats 
39 Nobel chemist Kurt: 1950 40 Pries 41 "--the rod 
42 Alfresco 
45 Myra or Rudolf 
46 Knows. in poesy 
47 Color or duck 
49 In need of a diet? 53 ---Magnan man 54 Connect for service 58 Midday stop for rest 
60 ". . destruction that wasteth at --": Psalm 91 
61 Spanish nobleman 
62 Horse's gait 
63 Malicious stares 
DOWN 
1 Hat or vote preceder 2 Some doorbells 3 Address abusively 4 U.S. maritime spy agcy. 5 One who accomplishes 
6 Young. inexperienced person 
7 --de combat 8 "A Chorus Line" song 9 SW Nigerian city 
10 Disencumber 
11 Pigs' place 
13 Norwegian 
wherewithal 

THIN6S ONE .SHOULD NEVE~ 5AY IN AN ITALIAN RESTAURANT 
1)"HEY, DID ANYONE 
HERE 51::E "THE 
UNTOllCtiABLES"? 
~~:. 
_... "' :..---=-------­
~" ·-~ . 


---~-----~-----------------­
~~-~-­

Sports
page 20 
Irish deal Aces 71-55 defeat 
By MOLLY MAHONEY the trap and got them on the team's juices flowing again at Sports Writer run," said Irish head coach 52-33. 
Muffet McGraw. "That was a And once the offense had Last night at the Joyce ACC, key part of the game, because been jump-started again, even the deck was stacked against once we grabbed a sizable lead, a slew of second-half fouls
l.~ 
the Aces. we never looked back." could not dent the lead that a
l 
\' 
The Notre Dame women's Six first-half steals and tight .530 shooting percentage and a 
I: 
basketball team produced a man-to-man defense may have 19-of-22 free-throw perfor­
I 
straight--its eighth straight been the catalyst for the Irish, mance had established. 
). ~ 
v 
Midwestern Collegiate but indefectible 8-of-8 free­With a slim 33-27 advantage Conference win-and left visit­throw shooting and .520 shoot­on the boards and six Irish\l{ ing Evansville flushed by its ing from the field kept the Aces players tallying eight points or even-handed scoring, winning at bay. more, Notre Dame grabbed the 
'l: 
n 
71-55. Notre Dame began the lead for keeps less than seven \ I The Irish got off to a sluggish second half where it left off, minutes after winning the start but gambled with a trap­reeling off eight unanswered tipoff and never looked back. llj!! ping press mid-way through points behind the rebound bas­"It was a good team effort," the first half to swing momen­kets of sophomores Sara said McGraw. "We got a little tum their way. Liebscher and Krissi Davis and sloppy at times, but in general Their furtiveness paid off, as junior Annie Schwartz to es­the man-to-man pressure did the Irish defense swiped four tablish a 25-point lead at 50-25 the job and we shot well from steals and stretched a two­less than five minutes into the the free-throW line, so I'm 
'l.: l point lead at 12-10 to 30~14 half. pleased with the win." before the Aces tried to regroup Liebscher's team-high 14 with a timeout. The Irish hit the doldrums points, five steals and five 
~~-Jll ~
~ l ~ 
The Irish held tough though, after an Evansville timeout, rebounds contributed to this The Observer I Trey Reymond ) : \ { after their 18-4 scoring spurt, however, and were outscored team effort and her hustle in Sara Llebscher scored 14 points, pulled down five rebounds and 
and went into the lockerroom 8-0 before senior co-captain 
had five steals In leading the Notre Dame women's basketball team 
\.· 
with a 34-21 lead. Lisa Kuhns canned her third see WOMEN, page 13 
to a 71-55 victory over Evansville Thursday night. 

"We came after them with jumper of the night to get the
{I' 'f 
.., 
1Oth-ranked 
Basketball squad
:U 
~~ ( 
)iJ Wolverines set for Trojan War 
)i 
L 
invade JACC 
By BRIAN O'GARA lege, LaSalle and Houston. Sports Writer The Irish are 8-2 at the Joyce 
By FRANK PASTOR 
ACC for the season, with losses 
~\ 
Sports Writer 
It isn't number one against coming to Syracuse and Duke. 
.,, 
number two and it could never The Blue Devils' 102 points last 
The Notre Dame hockey 
be billed as a game of the cen­Sunday were the most given up 
' 
team faces possibly its biggest 
tury. by a Phelps-coached Notre 
.. challenge of the season this
~ i. ': But it's just as important to Dame team.
weekend when it takes on loth­
the Notre Dame and Southern Southern Cal is desparately
ranked Michigan in a home­
Cal basketball teams to come seeking a win as it enters the
n. and-away series. out with a win. contest riding an 11-game
The Irish host the Wolverines 
, ( I On Saturday the 13-4 Irish losing streak. That is the
Friday night at 7:30 in the Joyce 
host the Trojans of USC at the second-longest losing streak in 
ACC. The two-game series then 
Joyce ACC in a game intitially USC history, bested only by a
concludes the following night in 
scheduled for a 1 pm tipoff but 16-game skid that stretched
\/; 
Ann Arbor, Mich.
)I! now slated to begin at 3 pm. from the 1975-76 season into the 
I-~ ) "We'll have our hands full," 
Notre Dame will enter the 1976-77 campaign.

said Irish coach Ric Schafer. 
contest on the wake of a 77-58 The Trojans lost to UCLA
"Michigan is a very powerful
;i: thumping of Fordham on Wed­Wednesday night, 68-65, in 
·­
hockey team playing good 
-· nesday night. Head Coach Dig­front of 10,000-plus at Pauley
hockey right now. But we'll be The Observer 1 Mike Moran 
---ger Phelps and the Irish return Pavilion. The Bruins had
~t 

;l\li 
l~ 
l \ \ 
I 
~H
-.\\ 
;,·,·,';-.. 
1.1 
lhl
',,
•'-.,) 
i/':! 

Tim Singleton and the Notre Dame men's basketball team face USC 
home for a four-game stand,

see HOCKEY, page 17 Saturday at 3 p.m. In the Joyce ACC. The Trojans carry an 11-game see TROJANS, page 16
which also includes Boston Col-

losing streak Into the contest. 
Holtz back in form after landing top recruits 
He stood under a large tent behind Sun Devil Stadium on the second night of the new year, speak­ing to hundreds of reporters after his 12th victory of the season. 
The words Lou Holtz spoke were almost as refreshing as the national championship itself. 
"I think this football team is what the Notre Dame spirit is all about," he said. "I can't say enough good things about them." 
What? Was this the same man who said before every game that his team was in trouble that week? The same Lou Holtz who, after each victory, could not see how his team could win another one? 
"Is this a great football team?" Holtz continued. "I'd have to say yes, because nobody proved that it wasn't. I don't know how you evaluate a football team, but this team has to go down as an exceptional one." 
But then, just when you thought it was safe to ask another question without getting one of those modest answers that sports writers have nightmares about, the new Lou Holtz turned back into the old one again. 
"What do you think about the possibility of being ranked No. 1 in the pre-season poll?" one of the scribes asked. 
Holtz paused a moment, smiled, and responded: "I think we've got some real problems on this team." 
Here we go again. 
Those problems just keep piling up for Holtz and the Irish, who signed what many consider the top recruiting class in the country Wednesday. Seven­teen of the 25 incoming freshmen were SuperPrep All-America selections. The next best school signed seven. 
Holtz's quotes must be getting tougher to come up with as all this talent continues rolling in, but 
Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 
somehow he manages to do his job. 
"You can't evaluate a recruiting class just based on one year," he said. "With the limited numbers, you have to evaluate it over a two-year period...I'm concerned about the skill positions because we don't have a lot of them in this group." 
Of course, there's reason to be concerned. Notre Dame only got the top quarterback recruit in Rick Mirer and the top tight end in Irv Smith. Four of the six linebackers signed were prep All­Americans. 
But perhaps they're only good on paper. 
"The people who will be on Notre Dame's campus next fall will be a rather talented group if you're going to measure it in 40-yard dash times or vertical jump figures," Holtz said. "That's how you evaluate an athlete, but not a football player." 
Instead of beaming with that same smile that emerged after the Irish won the national title at the Fiesta Bowl, Holtz said he hoped his recruits came to Notre Dame for the right reasons and wondered how well they would take to coaching. 
While everyone else talked and wrote about how Notre Dame had done it again, Holtz remained-­believe it or not--cautious in his appraisal of the new recruits. 
Don't worry about these guys, though. Before Notre Dame beat Rice 54-11 this past season, Holtz said the Rice game scared him as much as any game in his coaching career. 
That one didn't turn out too bad. 
And now, the announcement you've .all been waiting for: the winner of the Daimon Sweet nick­name contest. 
The winner was a write-in vote, which somehow missed the list of 10 finalists that appeared in last week's column. By student vote, we at The Observer 
see HOLTZ, page 13 








