
VOL. XXII, NO. 133 THURSDAY, MAY 4, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND settles suit with Umbrella Graphics 
By KENDRA MORRILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Umbrella Graphics can no longer use Notre Dame trademarks without the Uni­versity's written permission, according to a settlement agreement reached by Umbrella Graphics and the University last Thursday. 
The University filed a law­suit against the South Bend screen printing company in January alleging Umbrella Graphics infringed upon Notre Dame's federal, state and com­mon law trademarks and en­gaged in unfair competition un­der Indiana and federal law. 
A court order had allowed the seizure of goods bearing Notre Dame trademarks from the Umbrella Graphics store at 2925 Mishawaka A venue on Jan. 12. 
The University is satisfied with the outcome of the lawsuit, according to Carol Kaesebier, assistant general counsel. "As in any lawsuit these things take time," Kaesebier said, "but it went smoothly and was re­solved satisfactorily." 
Kaesebier would not com­ment on whether Umbrella Graphics was satisfied with the settlement. "They agreed to it," she said. 
Todd Garrison, a spokesman for Umbrella Graphics, said he could not comment on the case according to the terms of the agreement. 
The settlement states: "Umbrella Grap­hics...agrees to refrain from 
see SUIT 1 page 6 March by Monk The Observer/Tom Hassett Members of Navy ROTC parade by President Father Edward Malloy during the Presidential Pass and Review. All three military divisions participated in this annual event. 



TENURE: SET FOR LIFE 
Tenure important in terms of quality of the University 
By JOHN O'BRIEN  Martin is one of 60-70  those faculty who didn't  not only be be qualified but  their teaching," O'Meara  
Senior Staff Reporter  junior faculty members who  meet them.  must also have strong  said.  
is awaiting a tenure deci­ O'Meara added. "But at  qualifications. "There's no  O'Meara said that Notre  
Editor's note: This is the  sion. If she receives tenure,  the same time, I had two  point in rewarding unless  Dame has an added pres­ 
second part ofa two-part se­ she is, in effect, insured of a  missions: raise the stand­ you're getting better  sure to excel in research.  
ries on the Notre Dame ten­ job for life. If she is denied  ards, but also pay more."  quality," he said.  "At a university, scholar­ 
ure system.  tenure, however, she has one  According to Thomas  When speaking of quality,  ship and teaching are impor­ 
year to find another position.  Mason, vice-president for  O'Meara discussed both  last year to make up the dif­ 
After many years trying to  University Provost  business affairs, the salaries  quality of teaching and  ference. "If that's done  
balance research and teach­ Timothy O'Meara called  of Notre Dame faculty are  quality of scholarship and  again this year, I'm in favor  
ing, faculty members are  tenure "one of the most im­ among the top quartile (25  research.  of the idea," she said.  
waiting for the decision that  portant things in terms of  percent) of American uni­ According to O'Meara,  Morton Fuchs, chairman  
will confirm or terminate  the quality of a university."  versity professors.  Notre Dame tries to empha­ of the biological sciences de­ 
their careers at Notre  "The cost of living around  size both research and  partment, said that his de­ 
Dame.  "When I first became  here is so low compared to  teaching, unlike other insti­ partment's committee on  
"I wouldn't say I'm ner­ provost of the University, I  the East coast and West  tutions.  appointments and  
vous, but I am anxious,"  felt that the time had come  coast, and that makes Notre  promotions looks for both  
said Vicki Martin, assistant  to raise the standards of the  Dame an even more  "At some institutions,  teaching and research.  
professor of biological  University." O'Meara said  desirable place to work,"  pressure to publish and get  "I can't get into a person's  
sciences. "It's been a long  he accomplished this by re­ said O'Meara.  research grants is so strong  head, but I suppose the  
year with a lot of stress,"  quiring stronger qualifica­ O'Meara, however, said  that people get so preoc-­ 
. she said.  tions and denying tenure to  that a faculty member must  cupied that they neglect  see TENURE I page 6  


AP Photo 

State Troopers carry a striking UMW miner away from the entrance to Pittston Coal Company's Moss 3 mine in Carbo Virginia, Tuesday. Over one hundred miners were arrested when they blocked coal trucks. 
Zang leaves position of Investment Officer 
By MICHAEL WELLS 
Staff Reporter 
Father Richard Zang has left his position as the University's Investment Officer, effective this week. 
Scott Malpass, the assistant investment officer, has been named acting Investment Offi­cer until a replacement for Fa­ther Zang can be named. 
Zang, who received his B.B.A., A.B. in Philosophy, and 
M.B.A. from Notre Dame, ad­ministered University invest­ments for 18 years. According to the University's Office of Public Relations, Zang also acted as rector in student residence halls for 11 of the years he was here. 
"We are grateful for the stewardship of Father Zang during a period of unprece­dented growth in the Univer­sity's endowment, and we wish him well," said Father William Beauchamp, vice president of the University. 
Zang refused comment on his departure. 
The Investment Office administers the University's endowment, those funds donated by alumni and friends of Notre Dame. During the time Zang held the position of Investment Officer, the endow­ment has grown to a little under half a billion dollars, said Malpass. 
Malpass, a 1984 Notre Dame graduate, came to the office in August from his job as a portfolio manager with the Wall Street firm of Irving Trust Company. 
He said he believes that as the endowment grows, the of-
see ZANG I page 5 

page 2 The Observer Thursday, May 4, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Rolls of toilet paper were the prizes for the winners of a a lottery in the Ukrainian city of Stakhanov. The rolls didn't top the $115 million jackpot offered last week in Pennsylvania, but the winners seemed happy with their prizes. The newspaper Literary Gazette on Wednesday told the story of Ira, a girl who bought three tickets and walked away with several rolls of toilet paper, a towel and a small bowl. The lottery tickets cost 50 kopeks--about 81 cents--more than the actual price of many of the prizes. "But, don't forget that there are great shortages," Literary Gazette said. "In the city of Stakhanov, except for the lottery, one cannot get these goods." 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
The desperate Oral Roberts struggles to raise more than $4 million by Saturday to save Oral Roberts ministry, his religious empire of television evangelism. Roberts said in late March he had five weeks to raise $11 million to pay past-due bills or creditors would "start dismantling" the ministry. Richard Roberts, the evangelist's son, said more than $4 million still is needed by Saturday, when Oral Roberts University graduates nearly 1,000 of its 4,300 students. Roberts announced Tuesday he was pulling the university's athletic teams out of NCAA compe­tition and applying for admission in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics to save money. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Emerson Electric Co. of St. Louis has forwarded its first installment of a $100,000 commitment to the University of Notre Dame to establish a junior faculty fellows program in the College of Engineering's Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. "We are grateful to the Emerson Electric Co. for its timely and significant contribution to the work of a very important department in the University," said Father Edward Malloy, University President. Funds from the Emerson Electric Junior Faculty Fellows Program will be used to support the research of the department's young faculty members and also to underwrite fellowships for graduate as­sistants. 
The John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation's Selection Committee has selected 198 artists, scholars and scientists from among 3144 applicants for Fellowship awards totaling $5,251,000. Notre Dame Faculty members receiving the award include Kent Emery, assistant professor, Program of Liberal Studies, for his work on the life and works of Denys Ryckel, and Thomas Kselman, associate professor of history for his work on death and the afterlife in 19th-century France. Emery was also awarded a $65,000 grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities for a project entitled, "A Cri­tical Edition of Henry of Ghent's 'Quodlibet III."' 
Father Richard McBrien, Crowley-O'Brien-Walter professor and chairman of the University of Notre Dame's Department of Theology will receive an honorary doctorate of letters from Quincy College in Illinois on May 14. McBrien, a native of Hartford, Conn., was ordained a priest for that city's archdiocese in 1962. Mter receiving his doctorate in theology from the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome in 1967, he taught at Boston College and was a visiting professor at several Catholic colleges, universities and seminaries. He has been a member of Notre Dame's faculty and chairman of its theology department since 1980. Author of a syndicated column in the Catholic Press and a frequent commentator on ecclesial affairs, he is author of several articles and books on ecclesiology including the bestselling "Catholicism." 
WEATHER 

It May rain 
Sunny this morning but becoming cloudy with a 50 percent chance of thundershowers by late afternoon. Highs from the lower to middle 60s. A70 percent chance of thundershowers tonight. with lows near 50. 

ALMANAC 
On May 4: e In 1626: Dutch explorer Peter Minuit landed on Manhattan Island, 
later buying it from Indians for $24 worth of trinkets. e In 1776: Rhode Island de­
clared its freedom from England, two months before the Declaration of Independence was adopted. 
e In 1932: Mobster AI Capone, convicted of income-tax evasion, en­tered the federal penitentiary in At­lanta. e In 1946: A two-day riot at Alcatraz prison in San Francisco Bay ended, the violence having claimed 
the lives of five people. e In 1970: Ohio National Guardsmen opened fire on a crowd of anti-war protesters at Kent State Uni­versity, killing four students and wounding nine others. 
MARKET UPDATE 

S&P 500 i}-o.o4 to 308.16 
Currency exchange Mark +.0036 to 1 .8943 OM/$ 
Yen +0.27 to 134.41 ¥/$ 
Pound+ .0018 to 1.6800$/£ 
Precious Metals 
Gold f-$1.60 to $402.70 1oz. Silver+ 1.8¢ to $5.635 1oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 

Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
Cold fusion is a lofty illusion 
The recent claim by two scientists who said they achieved cold nuclear fusion has blown the fuses of their angry colleagues. 
B. Stanley Pons, a chemistry professor at the University of utah, and chemist Martin Fleischmann of the University of Southampton, England, said Mar. 23 that they achieved nu­clear fusion in a jar of water at room temper­ature. 
If true, their experiment could tap an un­limited source of cheap energy, or worse, the Congressional checkbook. That could mean an end to the energy crisis, inexpensive material for advanced nuclear weapons or research megabucks. 
That's power one doesn't trifle with. 
But physicists at a two-day conference of the American Physical Society in Baltimore, Md. fused together to show evidence debunking the claim. 
Dozens of attempts to reproduce the Pons­Fleischmann experiment have failed. Physicists at Caltech, MIT and other research institutions say Pons and Fleischmann's con­clusions were wrong. Some have even ques­tioned their colleagues' competence, making sarcastic remarks. 
One physicist was ingenuous enough to recite verse: Tens of millions of dollars at stake, Dear Bro­ther;/ Because some scientist put a ther­mometer/ At one place and not another. 
What are Pons and Fleischmann talking about? How can they be right and so many others wrong? Has science gone mad? 
But the only talking either scientist is doing is to the U.S. Congress, after the University of utah requested $25 million for further research. 
Small wonder. Mssrs. Pons and Fleischmann could get a lot of taxpayer dollars if they con­vince Congress that cold fusion research is worthwhile. 
Some things in this world are worth $25 mil­lion, but watching a jar of water for tempera­ture fluctuations isn't. 
Of course, if cold fusion can be achieved, the payback in energy savings might be worth it. 
OF INTEREST 
The Transfer Orientation Committee 
needs volunteers for next year. An organiza­tional meeting will be held today at 8 p.m. in the Student Government Office in LaFortune Student Center. For more information call 239­7136. 
Post graduate volunteer opportunities are still open with VIDA (Volunteers in Diocesan Action), Habitat for Humanity in Pit­tsburgh, and Andre Houses in Phoenix and Oak­land. Come to the Center for Social Concerns or call 239-5293 for more info. 
For seniors moving to a new city after graduation, Career and Placement Services would like to help you find that new room­mate1:1ousemate you need. Stop by the office and add your name to our "Information Ex­change." 
Yearbooks will be distributed today from 12-4 p.m. in the Yearbook Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Fr~day except during exam and vacahon penods The Observer is published by studenls of the University of Notre Dame and Sa1nl Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be pur· chased for $40 per year (S25 per semesler) by wr~llng The Observer 
The Observer is a member ol The Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 

'Some things in 
this world are worth 
$25 million, but 
watching a jar of 
water isn't.' 
·· jjj Aegis Coccia Managing Editor 

Yeah, yeah, without researching it, we'll never know. But without proof that cold fusion is possible, Congress shouldn't give out cold cash. 
Fusion, the opposite of atom-splitting, occurs when atoms join together, producing heat and neutrons. This usually happens at very high temperature, like 10 million-plus degrees Fah­renheit. 
Cold fusion, however, can be produced at room temperature with deuterium, a form of hydrogen, and palladium. At least that's what Pons and Fleischmann say. 
The effect of fusion is tremendous power, like the feeling military leaders got when it was developed for hydrogen bombs. 
Think what life could be a century from now, when tabletop fusion apparatus is available for fourth grade science projects. Everything elec­trical could be run on the marriage of two atoms. 
Cities could be powered for years without relying on Saudi Arabia. Who knows, in 2089 maybe the Middle East will have been obliterated by cold fusion bombs. 
Fusion could give a whole new meaning to "crude oil." Disinherited Saudis might need to buy our oil. OPEC would join the dinosaurs. Jazz would never be the same. 
And to think, it would all have started with two chemists keeping vigil over a jar of water. 
Regis Coccia is a junior American studies and French major and serves as managing editor of The Observer. 
On campus seniors are asked to put their names and ID numbers on their room deposit donation cards before they are returned to Stu­dent Residences, 311 Administration Building. 
Spring pottery sale today through Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Great Hall. 
The Northern Ireland Awareness 
group will show the video "Off Our Knees," about the last 20 years in Northern Ireland beginning with the Civil Rights movement of 1968, at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center untill p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. 
Design Editor ......................... Karen Newlove Design Assistant.................... Beth Peterson Typesetters .............. Bernard Brenninkmeyer ....................................................... Andy Schlidt News Editor ................................. Kelly Tuthill Copy Editor .•....•...•...................... Sarah Voigt Sports Copy Editor ................... Frank Pastor VIewpoint Copy Editor ................ Kim Skiles Accent Editor......................... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor.................. Man Murphy Accent Designer....................... Alison Cocks NO Day Editor .................... Jennifer Richards SMC Day Editor.................. Rozel Gatmiatan 



LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND HIVING. 
~ 

• ;~ -; I\. •
,. f •' I -! , f-­
' ,f. ) ,1
1 ."\.\·' ~-.. ~~,-->tl,.~-·
.. I/'

' -'/ I I ' "--!of" / ' 
...:_~-'-_-''J -r.'-\) /~':J~-..... -~ 
DOII'TOIM_,..,~wtOf.wmt.l.lllfM(WMOtol\ 
POSTAL JOB 

EARN OVER $25,000. YR. Excellent for Part-time work for students $10.63 hr Special announcement for all candidates planning to sign up for the POSTAL EXAMINATION given in your area. Last given in 1986 -since it won't be offered again for at least 3 years, don't miss out. 
4-HOUR WORKSHOP Now is the time to prepare. The pressure is on to score as high as possible to get the job. Career Postal Workers will now earn over $25,000. yr. Men and women, regardless of age, or education are eligible. The first step toward a postal career is getting your name onto the "Register of Eligibles," which is accomplished by passing this Exam. To be one of the first hired, you need to get one of the higher scores! This workship is being offered now, prior to the formal announcement of the examination dates, to give you adequate time to prepare for the test. Many post offices begin testing within a week of the announcement which isn't enough time to prepare properly. The workshop is free and the cost of materials is $49.00 including books and cassette. You will be placed on the postal hire list or your cost of materials will be 100% refunded. CALL 1-800-624-6353 Ext. 222 to reserve your seat. All questions answered at the workshop. Workshop to be held May 6th 1-5 pm at Roger B. Francis Branch Library 52655 Ironwood Drive, South Bend, IN The Learning Institute is an educational corporation dedicated to learning by preparation. Not affiliated with the U.S. Postal Service 
Thursday, May 4, 1989 The Observer 
lnnsbruck celebrates 25th 
By SARA MARLEY Senior Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame Foreign Study Program in In­nsbruck, Austria, recently marked its 25th anniver­sary. 
The 27 students currently on the program celebrated with representatives from Notre Dame and the Univer­sity of Innsbruck. 
The program was started in 1964 and a friendship agreement between Notre Dame and the University of Innsbruck was signed in 1982. 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, as· sociate provost, represented Notre Dame at the anniver­sary celebration, said Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of the Foreign Study Programs. 
A bilingual Mass, a com­
memorative tree planting 
Shuttle for Venus to launch on Thursday 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.­The countdown marched smoothly Wednesday toward a second attempt to launch the shuttle Atlantis with a crew of five and a space probe destined for Venus. NASA's only worry was a worsening weather forecast. 
"All in all, things look good for a 1:48 p.m. launch tomor­row (Thursday) and the start of our trip to Venus," launch test director Albert Sofge said of shuttle preparations. 
The weather outlook, however, was not the greatest, with forecasters saying Wed­nesday afternoon there was a 40 percent chance that either rain or high winds would prevent a launch during the available 64-minute launch period. That was up from 30 percent in the morning and 20 percent two days ago. 
The first launch attempt last Friday was aborted just 31 seconds before the planned lif­toff because of a short circuit in a fuel pump. NASA said the delay cost about $300,000. 
The mission to take the 
Magellan spacecraft into orbit . 
and a reception with the stu­dents were held on March 24. 
Each year between twenty and thirty students partici­pate in the program, al­though nearly sixty have participated at one point. They are joined by a profes­sor who serves as director. 
The current Austrian co­ordinator of the program is Helga Horak and the current director is Brian Pavlac. Past directors still at Notre Dame include Klaus Lanzinger, professor of modern languages, Albert Wimmer, assistant profes­sor of modern languages, David Schindler, associate professor in the Program of Liberal Studies, Norlin Rueschhoff, professor of ac­countancy, and Alexander Hahn, professor of mathe­matics. 
The Innsbruck Program is the oldest of Notre Dame's 
mant since the launch of Pioneer-Venus in 1978. 
"Mter an 11-year gap in the planetary program, we're anx­ious to get started," said John Gerpheide, project manager for Magellan. 
Shuttle chief Richard Truly opened an afternoon news con­ference with, "Here we are again, and we're ready to fly again. We've fixed our prob­lems. 
"The weather is not going to be as good as it was last Friday, but it appears it will be good." 
Air Force Capt. Thomas Strange, the shuttle meteorologist, said ''there is a 40 percent chance of a violation of weather constraints." 
He said the forecast called 
for a chance of rain showers. 
But of more concern, he said, 
was the possibility of cros­
swinds of more than 14 mph 
that could be dangerous if the 
shuttle had to make an emer­
gency landing on a runway 
near the launch pad. 
On Thursday, the shuttle 
must be launched by 2:52p.m., 
the end of a 64-minute "launch 
window," in order to have 
Magellan in the right position 
for a flight to Venus. If it isn't Foreign Studies Programs. Students may study in In­nsbruck; Angers, France; Tokyo; Mexico City; Cairo or Jerusalem. A summer program is also held in Tiajin, China. 

Two students are studying in Toledo, Spain, currently and eight will be next year as a part of an experimental program, according to Claudia Kselman, assistant director of Foreign Study Programs. 
Both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students may participate in the programs, and Notre Dame students are eligible for the Saint Mary's programs in Rome and Maynooth, Ireland. 
The Arts and Letters Lon­don Program and the Rome architecture program are run independently of the Foreign Study Office. 
before Earth and Venus are in the right position again. 
Technicians working around the clock replaced the fuel pump and a suspect fuel line in half the time expected, en­abling NASA to reschedule the launch for Thursday, at least a day earlier than officials thought was possible. 
Engineers had thought there was a leak in the fuel line that was replaced, but tests turned up nothing. They believe a vapor cloud seen spewing from the line, thought at first to be gas, was trapped water vapor. 
Sofge reported both new parts had been checked and certified for flight and that the engine compartment had been closed up. The launch team prepared to pump 528,000 gal­lons of liquid hydrogen and liq­uid oxygen into Atlantis' exter­nal fuel tank early Thursday. 
The five astronauts reviewed flight plans and honed their flying efficiency over central Florida in T-38 jet planes. 
"This time we're going to see if we can get it right," said David Walker, who will com­mand the mission. "We're ex­tremely pleased the folks here at the Cape were able to do such 
The ObserverI Tom Hassett

Big smile on a big wheel 
Jenny Wilson pauses from cruising the quad to pose sweetly for the camera. Remember the good old days of popsicles and big wheels? 
Grace Foundation gives $1 million to ND 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $1 million commitment from the Grace Foundation, Inc. for graduate fellowships in its Department of Chemistry. 
"Notre Dame is deeply grateful for this benefaction, which addresses a crucial priority of our Strategic Mo­ment fundraising campaign," said University President Fa­ther Edward Malloy. "The J. Peter Grace Prize Graduate Fellowships in Chemistry will insure that an already familiar name will endure in the memory and affections of the community." 
The Grace Foundation is the philanthropic agency of the 
W.R. Grace &Company, whose chairman and chief executive officer, J. Peter Grace, sits on the University's board of trus­tees. 
Among Grace's other Notre Dame benefactors have been an 11-story undergraduate men's dormitory on the north side of the University's campus and a complex of townhouses for women graduate students. Grace was the 1967 recipient of the Laetare Medal, the Univer­sity's highest honor. 

will revive a U.S. planetary launched by May 28, Magellan a good and quick job getting it 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, May 4, 1989 
Thousands of students march at Beijing Univ. 
Associated Press 
BEIJING-With a burst of 

firecrackers and the bang of a 
gong, thousands of Chinese stu­
dents marched for democracy 
and freedom Thursday on the 
70th anniversary of the first 
student movement in China. 
Students at Beijing Univer­

sity, China's most prestigious 
college, poured out of the 
campus gate at 8:30a.m. 
Ten minutes later at nearby 
People's University, several 
thousand students rolled out 
onto the streets, carrying doz­
ens of red and white banners 
calling for a free press and 
democratic reforms. One man 
wore a red headband that read: 
"mom, I'm not wrong." 
The marchers were cheered 
on by thousands of people along 
the way, much like last week 
when 150,000 students and sup­
porters staged a 20-mile march 
through the capital. 
The students said Tuesday they would march unless the government recognized their independent student organiza­tion. On Wednesday, the government refused. 
More than 40 universities 
around Beijing were expected 
to join in the march to Tianan­
men Square, China's symbolic 
seat of power, student leaders 
said. 
Most moved southward from the main university area in northwest Beijing, and thousands more from at least eight universities began a sep­arate march toward Tianan­men from the northeast section of the city. 
Since April 15, when the cur­rent demonstrations · began, students have successfully marched to the square on five different occasions. 
They also have boycotted classes the past two weeks in the largest protest Chinese Communist authorities have faced in their 40 years of rule. 
Police closed off the central square early Thursday, clear­ing all pedestrians off the vast 
fAMERICAN CANCERSOCIETYS 

The Observer 
100-acre plaza. Police were sta­
tioned about 15 feet apart 
around the perimeter to keep 
people off. 
About 2,000 international 
finance officials and bankers 
were to gather at the Great 
Hall of the People, on the west­
ern side of the square, 
Thursday morning for the 
opening of the annual meeting 
of Asian Development Bank. 
"They tried to close it (the square) on April 22, and look what happened then," Beijing Normal University student leader Wu'er Kaixi said Wed­nesday.Onthatday,morethan 150,000 students and supporters occupied the square in defiance of a police order. 
"Our protest tomorrow will show that Chinese democracy has arrived at a new stage," he said. "It will be a historic march." 
Several hundred police gath­ered at an intersection just south of Beijing Normal Uni­versity, a center for the pro­democracy student activism that has rocked the Chinese government since it began on April15. 
Police presence has been heavy at previous demonstra­tions, but police are unarmed and have made only minimal efforts to stop the marchers. 
Marches also were repor­tedly planned in Shanghai, Tianjin and other cities Thursday, the 70th anniversary of the May 4th Movement, China's first student appeal for democracy. 
About 60 journalists from state-run newspapers who signed a petition Wednesday for greater press freedom also said they planned a rally Thursday outside the gates of the official Xinhua News Agency. 
The tightly controlled press has barely covered the demonstrations and has ex­pressed the government line that the independent student unions formed by the activists are illegal. 
PRIME RIB .·.< .
m:AKS" 
SFAFOOD ~~~use 
HRf.STNJRAr<T 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 


WANTED 

POSITION: DIRECTOR OF FORENSICS (DEBATE & SPEECH COACH) 
FOR 1989-90 SEASON 

REQUIREMENTS: BACHELOR'S DEGREE. 
EXTENSIVE EXPERIEfliCE. IN COMPETITIVE SPEECH & DEBATE (LAW & GRAD STUDENTS ARE URGED TO APPLY.) 

INFORMATION: CALL 287-5087 OR 239-7753 OR WRITE DIRECTOR OF FORENSICS 302 LA FORTUNE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Spending on education is up but progress is at a standstill, Education Sec­retary Lauro Cavazos said Wednesday in releasing a report card that rates the na­tion's students as "merely average." 
"The good news is that the schools are not worse ; the bad news is that we are not making progress," Cavazos said as he stood before his department's sixth annual State Education Performance Chart. 
"We are standing still, and the problem is that it's been this way for three years in a row. Frankly, the situation scares me," he said. 
The figures show a decline this year in the national high school graduation rate and fal­ling scores on college entrance exams in half the states. 
In reaction, the Council of Chief State School Officers, while acknowledging that "the task ahead is gigantic," noted that 44 of the 50 states have made college entrance test gains since 1982 and 38 states have improved their high school completion rates since then. 
But Cavazos called the longer-term gains minimal. He said "scores on college en­trance exams are still substan­tially lower than they were in the 1960s" while the graduation rate has gone up less than two points. 
"As a nation our educational performance is merely average," Cavazos said. "People are still willing, ap­parently, to accept that we're not doing well and can't com­pete." 
If educational progress has stagnated, the Education De­partment's chart shows the same cannot be said of per­pupil spending. The national 
JUMP IN THE SADDLE FRIDAYSATURDAY BICYCLE ~sALE -suNDAY ­
·. \ ~-:'""~" __. 
Mountain Bikes from $210 Road Bikes from $223 choose from Raleigh, TREK, Bianchi 
Choose the best bike for yourselffrom your friends at OUTPOST SPORTS 
Receive a $50 gift certificate with the purchase of any retail priced bike 
Bike tune-up special $20. Free pickup & delivery in limited area 259-1000 
~ 
OUTPOST 


average was $3,977 per student in 1988, up from $3,165 in 1982--a 26 percent hike. 
"We are already spending more money per student than our major foreign competitors, Japan and Germany. And yet our students consistently fall behind the competition in com­petitive testing," Cavazos said. "Money alone is not the answer to our education deficit." 
Cavazos said he would write to state school chiefs, gover­nors and school board presi­dents and urge them to adopt specific goals such as boosting high school graduation rates to 90 percent and cutting in half the number of children who fail a grade. He said states and dis­tricts should issue annual reports on their progress toward such goals. 
Specifically, the depart­ment's chart shows that na­tional scores on the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) fell. 
THIS· 

Thursday, May 4, 1989 

Friendly escort The Observer /Tom Hassett Steve Roddy smiles for the camera as he pushes his laughing roommate Pat Reese across North quad. 
The Observer page 5 
South Korea to stop protestors 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea-Presi­dent Roh Tae-woo on Wednes­day threatened to invoke emer­gency powers, which could mean martial law, if students and workers continue the kind of violent protest in which six riot policemen were killed. 
He said his government was determined to stop the wave of radical protest that has bat­tered South Korea in recent weeks, but he did not outline specific action in a televised speech to the nation. 
"If violence and illegal acts endanger democracy and the future of the country, I would be obliged to invoke emergency measures as empowered by the constitution," he said. 
South Korea's constitution permits the president to rule by decree or impose martial law in cases of emergency. 
Rob's warning responded to the killing of six riot troopers early Wednesday at Dongui University in Pusan, a south­ern stronghold of the opposi­tion. 
People seldom are killed in South Korean protests. Riot of­ficers wear protective helmets and shields, along with fireproof fatigues, and nor­mally are armed only with tear gas and batons. 
The six who died were set afire when they broke into a room on the seventh floor of the university library to free five comrades held hostage. They were the first policemen killed since a riot officer died in June 1987. 
Authorities said students seized the hostages Tuesday after a violent demonstration against the firing of warning shots · by police on Monday when protesters menaced a police station. 
Students hurled firebombs and set fire to a barricade drenched with paint thinner as the policemen were climbing over it. Some officers wrapped in flames jumped out of win­dows and others were burned to death or asphyxiated, police said. 
Ten officers were in critical condition and police said they expected more to die. Officials said about 10 other policemen and students suffered minor in­juries. 
About 700 police raided the school, firing tear gas. Eighty­eight arrests were reported and the hostages later were freed unharmed. 
Jo Jong-suk, chief of the na· tional police, resigned after about 150 officers in Pusan con­ducted a sit-down protest . 


Ford Credit 

Jordan Ford-Lincoln Mercury 609 E. Jefferson Blvd. Mishawaka, IN 46545 phone 259-1981 

page 6 The Observer Thursday, May 4, 1989 
•

Infants die 1n dirty hospital 

Associated Press 
MOSCOW-Thirteen infants died in a two-week period in an Armenian hospital where cock­roaches scuttled around the cabinets and doctors set mousetraps under the operat­ing table, a newspaper revealed. 
In a blistering attack that ac­cused officials of indifference, incompetence and a coverup, the Armenian newspaper Kom­munist said 25 children born at the Krupskaya Scientific­Research Institute in the capi­tal of Yerevan had died this year, including 13 alone in the first two weeks of March. 
In another Yerevan mater­nity -hospital, three children died because they were given overdoses of medicine, accor­ding to the April 29 edition of the newspaper that reached Moscow on Wednesday. 
A government commission established that many of the in­fants died of infections caused by unsanitary conditions "on the operating table, in the birth area, in areas for premature babies, on nipples, oxygen niasks, breathing tubes, and even on medical lamps." 
Tenure 
continued from page 1 
average person looks for a bal­ance between the two," said Fuchs. 
While almost everyone seems to agree that research isn't the only thing, many agree it is vital nonetheless. 
O'Meara and Martin both said that quality research and quality teaching are intricately related. 
"Better researchers become better teachers," said Martin, who said that she talks to her students about her research. O'Meara added, "Scholarship is one way to keep the mind alert, provided it is not abused." 
"You'll find that the better teachers are also the better re­searchers," said Mary Jane Clancy, assistant professor of biological sciences. 
Clancy, the only member of the biological sciences depart­ment up for tenure last year, was denied tenure. 
Clancy said she didn't feel hindered by pressure to do re­search. "There is pressure to research, but one in my posi­tion wants to do research. As a scholar, I'm always trying to learn more," she said. 
Next year, Clancy will be a member of the faculty at the University of New Orleans. She said, "I'm glad to be leaving here," but refused to comment further on her reasons. 
According to O'Meara, his ef­forts to improve the University through tougher standards for tenure have worked. 

"We turned down far more people at tenure time ten years ago than we do now, which shows that our standards are being met," he said. 
"We're having to compete with faculty in other univer­sities who do nothing but re­search," said Martin. "Being able to keep up with them and still have a full teaching load says a lot for the quality of the faculty here." 
Thus, through an emphasis on tougher qualifications and on a balance between teaching ability and scholarship, O'Meara is trying to build a highly respected and well-paid faculty. 
Those faculty members who don't receive tenure must con­tinue their scholarly work else­where. Those who do, however, will be set for life. 
Suit 
continued from page 1 
making public statements to reporters for newsapers, magazines or television or radio stations regarding this case, this settlement or the Jan­uary 12, 1989, seizures which are inconsistent with the state­ments, acknowledgements and representations made in this agreement." 
"That's the best way of ex­plaining my position," said Garrison. 
"Whatever is in the agree­ment is what can be pub­lished," said Arvil Howe, Umbrella Graphics' attorney. "Notre Dame doesn't say anything; we don't say anyth­ing." 
Under other terms of the settlement, Umbrella Graph­ics: 
•acknowledged 
it had in­fringed upon Notre Dame's trademarks, engaged in unfair competition and, in at least one instance, had filled an order for approximately $15,000 in illegal products 

•waived 
all claims that its goods were improperly seized last January 


"Mothers say: cockroaches scuttle around the cabinets and under the operating table there is a mousetrap," Kommunist reported. 
The commission determined that about half of the 13 children who died in March were among the highest-risk group of newborns, but that"at least five or six of these children did not have to die," the newspaper said. 
It said nothing about the 12 other children born at the in­stitute who have died this year. 
The paper said the institute was closed, its director, G.G. Okoev, was fired, and other senior personnel were demoted. 
In an earlier interview, the paper said Okoev had blamed the high death rate on the high­risk nature of its patients and a flu epidemic among the mot­hers. 
Citing the case of the three other children who were given overdoses of medicine, the newspaper demanded: "is this coincidence, or is it the sys­tem? A deeper and more serious discussion is needed here." 

Mter many years of not publishing such statistics, the official press said a year ago the infant mortality rate was about 25 per 1,000 live births. In some areas of Central Asia, it is as high as 70 per 1,000. The infant mortality rate in the United States in 1986 was 10.3 per 1,000. 
The report came after other reports of abuse and neglect in recent months at maternity hospitals that shocked Soviets. 
Officials said in March that 49 mothers and babies had been infected with the AIDS virus at a hospital in Elista by nurses who used unsterile syringes 
Soviet officials acknowledge the free system of health care often is poor, and they are put­ting more money aside to im­prove it. The Tass news agency Wednesday quoted Health Min­ister Yevgeny Chazov as saying that much of that money would be targeted at care for mothers and children. 
"Considering the lag of mot­her and child care centers, it has been decided to spend 40 percent of public health's cap­ital investments for the devel­opment of these institutions," Tass said. 
•agreed not to honor orders which include University trademarks unless the cus­tomer has written authoriza­tion from the University's director of student activities 
The agreement conforms with Notre Dame's policy re­quiring all students or student groups to obtain authorization from the Office of Student Ac­tivities before using any of the University's trademarks. 

Non-students also must ob­tain a license or consent from the University before using any of its trademarks. 
Umbrella Graphics deals primarily with students, said Garrison. "Our intention all along has been to provide a cre­ative outlet for students," he said. 

$1.00 off for ND/SMC students (with ID) 
Packing and Shipping Supplies U.P .S.-BUS-Emery 
Next Day Service! 
/ Western Union / 


Thursday, May 4, 1989 The Observer page 7 
Lakeville, Ind. victims buried
ATTENTION MARKETING 


..............................................., 
MAJQRS 

Wanted Campus Representatives for Fortune 500 company. Put your intellectual knowledge to PRACTICAL use. 
CALL 234-4055 ...Ask for Bill 
Stop by for a philosophical laugh and an autograph! 
"15:-"'" ¢ ~ ·1::13/\ 3Hl. 'l.SV::JAG08 'l.SVOAG08 -... .•••....•.f.~,-J , DID U.No. I !.A".... ... ··~u~."~" ··----~--u". n:.... ..... 4Air.-You p Ll/(t:_ 
;<~~~~~! 8 UY CLASSIFl EDS;:·:;·"~;r~ 
~ ~ ~· ~ ~ ).~ ....( .,. '..() ,. VII "'S'" ..., u PLJ0• ,...,us SJ . (ON)
d.WOOVIII'ICI I. 

.,. ,s-~'0~~· cP~ 7-2 q,-1<-,~.,·.s: ~ st Campus View? PleQ. 11 Nfllf 1<Je,0 9~0'19$ 

HAMMES 

ND~~ME 
:•: 
t 
:• 

Scotch Package Mailing Tape $1.99 


• Scotch Clear Box : Sealing Tape : $2.59 
Associated Press 
LAKEVILLE, Ind.-As mourners crowded into a tiny rural church to pay their last respects Wednesday to the minister and three members of his family found shot to death, investigators continued to search the parsonage and countryside nearby, looking for clues. 
About 250 mourners filed into the Olive Branch Church of the United Brethren in Christ for the memorial service for the Rev. Robert L. Pelley, 38; his wife, Dawn, 32; and daughters, Janel, 8, and Jolene, 6. 
The Pelleys were shot to death in their home across the gravel parking lot from the church on Saturday. Their bodies were discovered Sunday morning by a church trustee. 
The Pelleys' three surviving children also attended the memorial service. 
In the eulogy, the Rev. Alfred 
G. Price, a regional superin­tendent of the church, read from the Bible's book of Isaiah: "the righteous are taken away 
Make reservations now {or graduation weekend. 
Hours Dinner-Tuesday-Saturday 4:00p.m. -11:00 p.m. 
Open Sunday May 21, 4:00pm-10:00pm 
• Private parties accepted up to 100 people. 
~


blJ • ., 
~'::if:::: ~ 0 r l 0 l 0
Ristorante 
1•12 South Bend Ave. -SouthotlheJAccon St. Rd. 23 South send 
219-232-4244 

~----~----~::~==:.________... 
to be spared from evil." 
"Though his ministry at Olive Branch was a short one-­two and a half years to be exact--it was a very successful one," Price said. "We, like all who know the Pelley family, are going to miss them greatly." 
C. Ray Miller, a bishop of the church, said the family had served Jesus Christ in a team ministry. 
"They are now in the actual presence of Jesus. Isn't that tre­mendous?" Miller said. 
The mourners sang ''Amaz­ing Grace," which was Mrs. Pelley's favorite hymn, and "What A friend We Have In Jesus," then filed quietly out of the church. 
Miller had urged the mourn­ers to keep the spirit of the memorial service and not talk about the deaths to each other or to the media. 
Many of the mourners drove the few miles to Southlawn Cemetery in South Bend, where the caskets had been taken di­
a e i+ 
i• 
: 


Scotch Strapping Tape $2.39 
rectly from the funeral home. 
At the cemetary, two larger bronze caskets rested beside two smaller silver caskets, all surrounded by sprays of roses, chrysanthemums, gladiolas and carnations. 
"We commit their bodies to the grave, and their spirits to God, who gave them," said Mil­ler in the brief graveside eul­ogy. 
Many of the mourners wept openly during the graveside service and embraced mem­bers of the victims' families who had traveled from Mic­higan and Kentucky. 
Robert "Jeff" Pelley, the couple's 17 year-old son, remained at the graveside for about 20 minutes after the ser­vices, accepting condolences from high school friends who surrounded him. 
Hours before the memorial service, police divers resumed their search for a weapon in farm ponds near the par­sonage, while a sheriff's horse patrol searched wooded areas nearby for additional evidence. 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke a hfesoving Red Cross CPR course. 
+AmericanRed.Cross 
~ 

................................................. 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, May 4, 1989

page 8 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 


1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-chief Chris Donnelly Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor-·· Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ••...•.•.••. Molly Killen 
Viewpoint Editor -·············· Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager •.••••• Shannon Roach Sports Editor·······-·············Theresa Kelly Production Manager •••.•.••... Alison Cocks Accent Editor ---················John Blasi Systems Manager-·-··-··· Mark Derwent Photo Editor·---·-················Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector••••••••••••••••••.Angela BeHanca 
Controller------···-······· Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni· varsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. Executive News Editor, VI8Wj)Oint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL LETTERS 
Faculty Senate reforms needed 
Recently some members of the faculty have been disgruntled at what they perceive as an inability of the Faculty Senate to have substantive influence in the decisions of the administration. They believe that faculty recommendations are either ignored or acted upon lethargically. 
Sadly, there is a large degree of truth in these per­ceptions. The University listens, even acknowledges to the faculty that their ideas have merit, then some­how loses sight of those ideas when University policy is implemented. 
One need not question the sincerity of some Uni­versity officials in their desire to improve conditions for the faculty to believe that faculty input has been brushed aside. Some individual members of the ad­ministration have shown a genuine willingness to hear input from the faculty. Instead, the source of the prob­lem is that the faculty voice is not heard when the actual decisions are being made. 
This situation is not unique to Notre Dame. At many peer institutions faculty members are upset over their lack of input in administrative matters. 
Most of these schools, however, do not see faculty unions as the solution to the problem. Similarly, any proposal to unionize the faculty at Notre Dame is misguided. The ultimate threat of a union lies in its ability to strike, an option inconsistent with a teaching mission and anathema to most faculty members. Dis­banding the Senate out of frustration is also not the answer to the problem. 
The solution lies in allowing the faculty some mea­sure of shared governance while leaving final author­ity in the hands of the administration. The emphasis should be on electing rather than appointing faculty members to positions of authority. Direct faculty elec­tion of an associate provost, for example, could give the faculty an important voice in the administration building while leaving ultimate authority unchanged. 
The need for improving the faculty voice is clear, but radical solutions such as unionization or the dis­banding of the senate are not the answer. 

DOONESBURY  
S4Y, M4RC/A, IX) YOU KNOW (qf(0TH8~­[)GNT 15? I  Jl.J,OF7H8 COUNTRY. YOUKNW, 7H& tl3Al?&R OFlHtFR/3&/A/ORJ£)Z /  OH,H/M.. . 11/&LL ... UM... lBTM89el3... I  UM...  
UP 70 HIS &Y&­8AU'i>IN7H8 IRAN-CONTRA 


U.S. citizens must help reform American politics 
Dear Editor: the importance of upholding the suicide of his aide, Ihei 
Where has American in­the law and realize the implica­Aoki, demonstrates the sig­tegrity gone? Over the past de­tions of a public official's viola­nificance that the Japanesecade, Americans have heard of tion. Our understanding must place on upright behavior. The an increasing number of scan­also include supporting shame they experience for dalous activities within our prosecutions of leaders who their disservice to their government. Although scan­break the law. By practicing country remains unmatched in dals are nothing new to any this standard, we protect our­the United States. We need to government, unethical behav­selves from the rise of emphasize this same sense of ior has dominated politics for demagogues who could easily pride within our society. Uneth­too long. Since the press started destroy our republic. Although ical behavior cannot be to openly criticize and reveal investigations into the integrity tolerated. more dishonest politicians in of James Wright and Oliver As we enter the next century, the early sixties, we are finally North place an incredible bur­these dishonest practices may becoming more aware of our den on the system, our support prove to be fatal to the country. elected officials' improper con­will discourage illegal activity With individuals simply duct. But these reports might in the future. working toward their self­only be the tip of the iceberg. We must encourage our fu­interests, the government'sAlthough President Bush ture leaders to develop a policy will be unsuccessful in promised to crack down on et­patriotic attitude while serving meeting the nation's needs. We hics, his effort might not be the country. A sense of honor must clean up our government enough to stop the established and pride should guide their ac­and begin forming proper corrupt practices which con­tivities rather than their self­goals. Corrupt policies cannot stantly deteriorate our govern­interests. Furthermore, the guide our nation into the future. ment. The nation's citizens disgrace placed on violators We must restore the dignity we must help reform American must exceed any personal gain once held. politics. that could be achieved from 
The government cannot cor­their positions. The recent res­Glenn Walberg rect the entire problem by it­ignation of Japanese Prime Grace Hall self. As citizens, we must learn Minister Noboru Takeshita and April 30, 1989 
Faculty unionization: A lesson for students 
Dear Editor: The Notre Dame faculty, the faculty's job is to teach they 
I had not been following the through its Senate, has each had the welfare of hisher talk of faculty unionization recently begun to complain of family to consider. closely until I read The Obser­this imbalance. Robert Kerby ver's front page article (May even mentioned the idea of fac­I believe that each is missing 2, 1989). What struck me as odd ulty unionization as· a method the most important issue. The was that, while at a university, of combatting this inequity. role of the faculty is to teach, the primary activity is the edu­However, the faculty seems but there is no better method cation of students by learned reluctant to consider this op­of education than that of exam­faculty, these groups have a tion as evidenced by Prof. ple. If the facuty believes that relatively minor share of the Kerby's statement in the May they deserve rights denied to power at Notre Dame. The ad­2 Observer. In reference to any them, then the faculty should ministration, whose role can possibility of a faculty strike, be willing to demand the rights only be secondary at best, holds he said, "A professorial faculty even to the point of unioniza­the lion's share of control over would be reluctant to take ac­tion. And, perhaps, the stu­the direction of the university. tion that would penalize teach­dents will follow. In recent years, this imbalance ing." Another member of the of power has led to conflict be­faculty senate, who requested Jim Bradford tween the Administration, fac­anonymity, took an opposing Off-campusulty, and students alike. view in claiming that although May 2, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
5CANPAL.. 
I 
I 
'True loving sacrifice goes so against our human grain that it is impossible for us to 
do alone.' 
J. Pella & M. Phillips 

Viewpoint
Thursday, May 4, 1989 
page 9 

Drunk driving: A senseless risk of life 
By R. Craig Spann 
Last Fall, I was looking for­ward to October Break with great anticipation. The day fi­nally arrived when I made the grueling trip to O'Hare for my flight home to San Antonio. Life was a little more "awesome" than usual then. Our football team had just beaten that un­speakable team from Florida, and we had a week off from classes. The week flew by too fast, as breaks always do, but I had experienced one of the best breaks in recent memory. 
Most of my friends were off at school, except the two who went to school in town. The three of us lived it up, for they didn't have all that much to do for school that particular week. Forgive the cliche, but we were were having the time of our lives without a care in the world. Well, Sunday came, and so did the trip back to the won­derful South Bend climate. Break was over; I said my goodbyes to friends and family, and off I went. 
Sounds like a pretty good time, huh? Well it was. School was back in session, and our football team had just become the most highly ranked team in the land. A few weeks had passed. I received a letter from one of those two friends with whom I spent my October Break, Tim. It was a typical letter from a friend. He told me the low down on some of our friends from high school, as well as the general happenings. Well I wasted no time writing him back (mail doesn't come my way all that often). 
Tim never got my letter. Not because of our wonderfully reliable mail delivery, but rather because of the choice of another individual. Seems funny how other people can have such a pronounced effect on us sometimes. Tim was on a county road travelling home one Friday night early in No­vember. The story goes that he was approaching a road onto which he was going to make a left hand turn. As he waited for the oncoming car, it began to swerve into Tim's lane. There was nothing he could do but sit there and accept what was going to happen. I'm not so sure 

Death is really hard to accept. In a way it's perpetual suffering, because it can never be resolved . ... It was really hard to accept the fact that I would never talk to him again. 
he even knew what happened. The truck which was headed toward him did in fact hit Tim head on. Tim died instantly at the age of 20. The driver of the other vehicle escaped with minor injuries. 
Death is really hard to ac­cept. In a way, it's perpetual suffering because it can never be resolved. I can't begin to describe the suffering and pain I went through after Tim died. It was really hard to accept the fact I would never talk to him again. 
During Junior Parents' 
LETTERS 
Instituting co-ed dorms at ND 
Change in attitude needed for co-ed dorms to work 
Dear Editor: " ...the report states that there when that dorm underwent a 
After reviewing the three­was 'overwhelming support for sex change, think again: part article on co-ed housing this change... in some of the relocating 180-195 men in 13-15 (April 25-27, 1989), I can cer­newer North quad dorms, par-male dorms is a little different tainly see both sides of the issue ticularly Siegfried, Knott, and from relocating 500 women in but wholeheartedly promote Pasquerilla East and West."' the remaining 7 female dorms. giving co-ed housing a chance. While it is true that the L-In order for co-ed housing to Perhaps by experimenting in a shaped structure of these work, we all have to be open to couple of dorms to begin with, dorms would be conducive to the possible idea of having our a better impression of the pos­going co-ed by section, surely dorm changed to co-ed, male sible success could be deter­they could not be the only and female alike. Any dorm on mined, both from a student and dorms mentioned by the report campus would be able to go co­administrative point of view. to go co-ed. The fact in num-ed by floor, which I bet would 
Right now, however, that bers remains that, for each be easier for the hall staff to success seems to be judged dorm mentioned (which houses monitor and to deal with than solely on the jump from "no­approximately 250 apiece) to a dorm co-ed by section. While ed" to co-ed. Possibly men­keep an even male-female ratio new undergraudate dorms tioned in the committee report close to 500 women would have most likely will not be built for but not emphasized enough in to be displaced. My guess is co-ed purposes in the near fu­the articles, were the problems both that there are not that ture, we have to work with the of the transition steps in the dif­many locations off -campus to ones we have now. There is also ficult process--that is, in decid­house that number of people the issue of who will be the ones ing which dorms will be the and that the next dorms to be to move out of the chosen "lucky ones" (or unlucky ones, built will be for graduate stu-dorms, which will be difficult depending on your point of dents. Will the Housing office enough as it is. In the mean­view) to be made co-ed. If the be willing to relocate that many time, co-ed dorms could never survey results (April 25, 1989) students on-campus, and at the be a reality unless there is a are an accurate indication of same time, will the admissions drastic change in the attitude overall attitudes towards the office be willing to lose that that "bringing members of the topic, it is interesting to note many spots in the next (few) opposite sex into our dorm that while 78% favor the co-ed freshman class(es)? I doubt it. would devalue the dorm." arrangement, 36% did not want For those who would argue how Cheryl Stoy their dorm to be the one . the· male Howard residents had Siegfried Hall 
It was a concern to see that to be relocated two years ago April 28, 1989 
Co-ed housing would give women equal access to ND 
Dear Editor: space availability in the same number of men. In this 
We, as alumnae and alumni residence halls (within the way, we would extend the and academic administrators single sex structure) has dic­proper offers of admission to of the University, praise The tated that the admitted and the applicants who demon­Observer's recent examination eventually enrolled classes of strate the strongest creden­of the complex issue of freshman have been 36% tials, regardless of gender.coresidential housing (The Ob­female, 64% male. As a result, We perceive single sex server, April25-7). Many valid females do not have equal residence hall space to be the opinions emerged concerning access to the University, nor do current obstacle to equal how such a policy change would they achieve even proportional access. Several halls ex­affect the lives of current Notre representation in the freshman perimenting with co­Dame students and staff. An class. While acknowledging the residentiality would help cor­equally important issue, strides that have been made in rect the present inequity. We 
however, is how such a policy realizing a greater female encourage all men and women change could affect applicants presence on the campus in of Notre Dame to consider for admission to the freshman recent years, we believe the these points as they form and classes of the 1990s. time is right for the next step. express their opinions on this 
Reapportioning the freshman important matter. 
The freshman applicant pool class along the time-tested for admission to Notre Dame lines of the applicant pool Kelly McConaghy has been 39% female, 61% male would add approximately 75 Undergraduate Admissions for several years. However, more women and subtract the May 2, 1989 

Student senators want input 
Dear Editor: working to set up an advisory 
Since taking office on April committee in each of our 2, we, the student senators, respective districts to help us have discussed many issues of accurately determine exactly importance for the Notre Dame what the student body desires. community. The five student We encourage you to get in­senators have pursued objec­volved in student government, tives such as extending the cur­and if you have any ideas, ques­rent library hours, providing a tions, or comments about the student 24-hour lounge in Student Senate, please contact LaFortune, evaluating the con­anyone of us at the student gov­tent of the Northeast Neighbor­ernment offices or call us per­hood rezoning plan, and sonally. formulating a realistic expan­Chris Frigon sion of United Limo services on District 1 campus, such as providing Mike Gaffney transporation of student's lug­District 2 gage to the Main Circle and Dan Hoag free shuttle service to and from District 3 the airport. Sigi Loya 
We want to work as a unified District 4 body to promote coherent John Krotzer goals. As of now, we are District 5 
Basketball fosters special spirit 
Dear Editor: 
When I first arrived at Notre Dame last August, I heard from many people that one of the greatest times I would have during my four years here would be playing in the Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment. Mter what I have expe­rienced over the last few weeks, I have finally come to 
realize the full feeling of this first game, so the stands were fantastic competition. Both of full. We brought our own con­the games that I was involved tingent to cheer us on, but it in had special significance to did not matter. We were me with memories that will not defeated by a pretty hefty soon be forgotten. amount, but we had fun despite 
the loss. 

In my team's first game, we played an overmatched team Even as I participate in the and were victorious by a lop­games as a fan now, I still feel sided score, beginning our the intensity of Bookstore Bas­Bookstore careers on a high ketball. I think it is great to see note. Our happiness did not last so many athletes get the oppor­long, though, because our next tunity to "show their stuff." I opponent was All The Presi­have viewed many highly com­dent's Men, a highly seeded petitive games, including the team led by none other than Fa­exciting championship game, ther "Monk" Malloy. We and I always went home think­realized our chances of victory ing the same thing: win or lose, were slim, but we knew that both teams left the court just the fact that we were knowing they were involved in playing against such a something special. respected figure was thrill Dominick Ritacco enough. Many curious spec­Keenan Hall tators showed up to see Monk's May 2, 1989 
Weekend, I had the pleasure of listening to a very intelligent man speak at the closing brunch. Lou Holtz told a story of his football awards cere­mony one year during high school. He told us of a speech in which his high school coach made one point which he remembered. It is a point which I will always try to re­member, too. Holtz's coach said that we should let people know how much they mean to us before it's too late. I never got a chance to say goodbye to Tim. I never got a chance to tell him how great a person and 
a friend he was. For this I will be forever sorry. 
Sometimes I really become angry when I recall what hap­pened. Tim's death, my suffer­ing and the suffering of his fam­ily and friends could have been avoided. The man who was driving the truck was driving under the influence of alcohol. Nothing in life should be so tough, but sometimes we make things tougher than they ought to be. We lose perspective. This man lost his perspective of how he should have behaved in the situation. And now his life has become much tougher than it should be. 
I share this story with you for one very specific reason. We live in a society in which we are free to drink to have some fun, and that can be good. We live in a society in which we are also free to get behind the wheel of a car after we have had our drink, and that is bad. I want you all to do me a favor. Summer is coming up soon and the rest of our lives after that. Please, if you are faced with this decision to drink and drive, or a friend is thinking about driving drunk, don't lose your perspective. It's not that tough to find a friend who isn't under the influence, or even to find a cab. You may think you're all right to drive, but why take that risk? Is it worth just that one little mistake that could change your life, and the lives of those around you, forever? If only that man who killed Tim had the chance to make a choice like you all have. 
Craig Spann is a junior electri­cal engineering major. 

---------------~-----­

[~~-T.IUffOmsrtta!!J~ II ! ;v.!_~~~:.. ~u_!h ar\<! ~ke -~quare On A
1 


" 
r 
r 
r r r r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r r  3  Bush ticket controversy  
r r  Preceding  then-Vice  President  George  
r  Bush's  visit  to  campus,  a  controversy  
r  arose regarding the distribution of the free  
r  tickets to the event.  A mix-up between the  
r  Office of Student Activities and the Public  
r  Information  office  caused  two  different  
r  times for the event to be announced.  A  
group of Republican students managed to  
take advantage of the situation, causing  
further controversy.  

7 
New computer labs open across campus 
Notre Dame went Macintosh in the 1988­1989 school year. Apple Computer do­nated $450,000 dollars to help Notre Dame provide personal computing facilities for the faculty and students. New computer labs opened in the LaFortune Student Cen­ter, O'Shaughnessey Hall, and the Archi­tecture Building. One result in the new popularity of the computers was long lines in all of the labs. 
THE YEAR 
The Top 10 News stories of 1988-89 
1 
Bush appears at ND 
Then-Vice President George Bush appeared at Notre Dame less than one week before his victory in the Presidential election of 1988. Bush's speech in the Stepan Center, sponsored by the Law School's White Center on Law and Government, stressed the "great divide" between himself and his Democratic opponent, Massachusets Gov. Michael Dukakis. 
New alcohol policy announced 
Students arriving back on campus in the fall faced a revision in the University's alcohol policy. The revisions followed recommendations put forth by the Task Force on Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of 
2
Alcohol. The most prominent changes included new restrictions on SYR hall semi-formals and a ban on advertisements for alcohol and 
bars in campus publications. 

4 
Bush, Hiler, Bayh win in 1988 races 
Republican candidates George Bush and Dan Quayle were successful in their bid for the White House. John Hiler (R) was re­elected to his 3rd District Congressional seat, and Evan Bayh became the first Democrat to occupy the Indiana governor's seat since 1964. At Notre Dame, a large turnout of student voters was somewhat thwarted by long lines at the one voting machine in Stepan Center. 

cAC(:INT_: I_~~~_ii,x~S$--;~~ ·1 ! 
_:'f_I_EWPO_I_IIT:_~~ _ ~-'-"'"" .. 
~e=O~~~ 
8 
Campus mourns Satterfield's death 
The day after the national championship Notre Dame football team visited President Reagan in the White House, Robert Satter­field, a senior cornerback, died from a seizure and cardiac arrest. It was later learned that Satterfield had a congenital birth defect which had gone unnoticed. Satterfield collapsed early Thursday, Jan 19. 
NO hostsHiler-Wardcongressional debate 
5 
Hiler-Ward debate 
held at NO 
Notre Dame played host to a debate be­tween the two candidates for the 3rd Dis­trict Congressional seat. Incumbent John Hiler (R) and two-time challenger Tom Ward 
(D) discussed topics, provided by a stu­dent panel, which ranged from foreign pol­icy to funding for higher education. The debate was part of a student government drive to increase students' political aware­ness. 
Pozner, Donahue talk on U.S./Soviet relations 

9 
Pozner and Donahue appear at JACC 
T.V. talk show host Phil Donahue and his counterpart from the Soviet Union, Vladimir Pozner, discussed the recent changes in U.S.-Soviet relations during an appearance at Notre Dame. Donahue, a Notre Dame alumnus, and Pozner stressed the need to change old attitudes and think about the future. The appearance, sponsored by the SUB, was part of the Year of Cultural Di­versity. 

6 
Breslin-Kinkopf win 
student elections 
Matt Breslin and Dave Kinkopf won the runoff election for student body president and vice president, defeating the ticket of Tom Rask and Melissa Smith. The Breslin­Kinkopf ticket won by a nearly 70-30 mar­gin. Breslin promised to continue the pro­grams of the Tom Doyle-Mike Paese ad­ministration which preceded him. 
10 
KofC 
suspended 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Knights ot Columbus was suspended in October 1988, amongst allegations of theft and fi­nancial misdoing. The KOC chapter was officially suspended by the University on November 1. Previously, the KOC had op­erated in an unusual relationship with the University, which included their own build­ing on South Quad. 


The Top 10 Sports ·stories of 1988-89 
1 
Irish win 8th national title 
No doubt about it. The Notre Dame football team soundly defeated the West Virginia Mountaineers 34-21 in the Fiesta Bowl to claim the National Championship. The Irish finished the year with a perfect 12-0 record, including wins over Miami, Michigan, USC and the Mountaineers, all of whom finished in the Final AP Top Ten. 
Miami game lives up to the hype 2
The Irish football team beat Miami 31-30 in a game that lived up to the incredible pre-game hype. The campus was overwhelmed for months by Hate-Miami fever and Jimmy Johnson bashing, but the Irish came through on Saturday as Pat Terrell knocked down a Steve Walsh pass to keep the Hurricanes from rallying to beat the eventual National 
Champions. 

Men's soccer4 gets its first bid as well 
The men's soccer team won the MCC tour­nament and followed it up with its first-ever appearance in the NCAA Tournament. The Irish finished the season with a 17-3-2 record ranked 15th in the nation. 

Sports 

Malicious Prostitution, Sparky's capture titles 
8 
Tradition continues in Bookstore 
Tournament 
Malicious Prostitution surprised Adworks' All-Stars and Sparky's Franchise II clob­bered An Angel, Sally's Comet and Three Other Heavenly Bodies to claim the men's and women's Bookstore Basketball cham­pionships. The tradition lived on as the an­nual tourney was played on the courts of Notre Dame in any and all weather condi­tions. 
3 
Irish volleyball 
makes first NCAA Tournament 
The Notre Dame volleyball team made the NCAA Tournament tor the first time. The Irish, led by senior Mary Kay Waller, fin­ished the season with a 19-12 record and defeated Penn State three games to one in the first round of the tournament before losing to fourth-ranked Illinois in the Sweet 16. 
7 Men's cross-country finishes ninth in nation 
The men's cross country team finished among the Top Ten teams in the nation for the second year in a row. Led by seniors Dan Garrett and Ron Markezich, the Notre Dame team placed ninth in the NCAA Championship meet after a second-place finish in the tough District IV competition. 

5 
Peltier, Pesavento 
lead Irish in 
banner season 
Led by junior Dan Peltier and senior Pat Pesavento, the Irish baseball team put to­gether one of its finest seasons ever. Looking to break the team record of 39 wins, the team's regular season highlights included early-season victories over na­tionally ranked Texas and a baseball re­match win over Miami. 

9 
Wrestlers ~rapple for national 
rankings 
The Notre Dame wrestling team sent se­niors Jerry Durso, Chns Geneser and Pat Boyd and junior Andy Radenbaugh to the NCAA Tournament. The Irish as a team finished 21st in the nation, led by Boyd, who finished fifth and Durso. eighth in their respective weight classes. Both were named All-Americans. 
Sports 


Sports 
Irish finish season 20·8, face Vandy In 1st round ND needs Uma Some surprises ~:~t.,;~ounds ~!L!~ Final 64 


6 
Young Irish team opens eyes in 
NCAA hoops 

The young Notre Dame basketball team im­plemented an up-tempo style and the tal­ents of five freshmen to race to a 21-9 record. Led by junior co-captain and team MVP Joe Fredrick and freshman standout LaPhonso Ellis, the Irish defeated Vander­bilt in the first round of the NCAA Tourna­ment before falling to Georgetown. 
.... 

10 
Fencers dominate foes through regular season 
The Notre Dame fencing teams continued to dominate their regular season oppo­nents, but were disappointed in the NCAA Tournament with performances than were nonetheless characteristic of the Irish po­sition as a national power. The men fin­ished fourth in the nation, the women third. Janice Hynes finished sixth individually for the Irish. 
~--------~-~~-­
------~---------­
... 

Accent
page 12 Thursday, May 4, 1989 
YUKO 
HO! 

We're heading for some snow! 
c:>
Good riddance to those grown-up ghouls! 
•· 

; /;~~l<;,alvin and lbbbes CsXk?ctiotr by Bill Watterson
We're leaving! Yukon Ho! 0 
COLLEEN CRONIN lection of Calvin's greatest ing the meaning of life--don't gravity bill. He claims his you've said, 
assistant accent editor moments. "Yukon Ho!" is the all little boys and their parents are communist be­And now it's going to stop! 
fourth Calvin anthology tigers? cause they make him go to Calvin is not always a 
T 
hose students who released, and each publica­Kids today can take valu­bed. He and Hobbes decide to deranged maniac--there are immediately turn tion has topped the previous able lessons from Calvin on secede from the family and some very touching moments 
to the inside back one in sales figures. such important matters as walk to the Yukon so they such as when he loses Hobbes 
page of the Obser­"Yukon. Ho!" contains some how to try to get away with don't have to deal with in the woods, or when he 
ver everyday to classic Calvin antics, such as eating cookies instead of din­totalitarianism any longer; of scratches a sleeping Hobbes catch that great little boy and his campaign for a new dad, ner, how to escape the course they pack chocolate just to make him smile. his tiger will be ecstatic to and trying to talk his mom dreaded bath, and just syrup sandwiches for nourish­"Yukon Ho!" will be a fa­hear that a brand new Calvin into letting him have a flame making life as difficult as ment. A verse from their vorite for Calvin and Hobbes and Hobbes anthology has thrower. Of course, Calvin possible for parents and "Yukon Song" declares: fans. Though lacking the been released. and Hobbes take their well­teachers. We're abandoning this life color strips of "The Essential 
Entitled "Yukon Ho! ", Bill known death-defying tobog­Calvin's excuse for not we've led! Calvin and Hobbes," this Watterson has managed to gan and wagon rides down doing homework is that his So long, Mom and Pop! book will still bring many put together a hilarious col-nearby hills while contemplat-parents forgot to pay the We're sick of doing what giggles and outright laughs. 
''50's diner wanna-be's'' beware--Bonnie Doon 
MATT GALLAGHER AND 

ing of the five stores, with SARA MARLEY about eight booths and a counter. 
accent writers 

M 
The ambiance is, well, ove over, 50's-diner genuine, with old-time sepa­wanna-be's. Bonnie sundaes, all priced inexpen­They must get a kick out of very good. rate drive-up windows that Doon is the real thing. sively from the Kiddie Sundae cleaning their tables, because We also sampled the look a little complicated. You 
At five locations in South ($1.10) to the Banana Boat the sundae was so full that Chicken Fillet ($2.25) for expect someone on roller Bend and Mishawaka ($2.25). Our request that a ice cream and syrup gushed those Domers who just can't skates to bring your food out, (mysteriously numbered ran­chocolate shake ($1.35) be out when we tried to take the get enough of them here. We but unfortunately they don't. domly from one through made with vanilla ice cream first few bites. recommend it, finding it more The restaurant is clean and seven), Bonnie Doon has been and chocolate syrup was met Bonnie Doon isn't just ice tender than its dining hall in an effort to keep its serving up good and cheap with a puzzled look from our cream as a varied and counterpart. employees the same there are burgers, hot dogs and sand­bleached-blond, hair-netted, equally inexpensive menu All of the platter entrees no fewer than three separate wiches, but most of all, ice white-clad waitress who said, backs up dessert. are also available as sand­signs in the bathroom remind­cream since before most of "That's the way they're We went with the standard wiches with reduced prices, ing them to wash their hands. the locals who frequent it can made." Bonnie Burger Platter ($2.80) including the Bonnie Burger Bonnie Doon is the perfect remember. The Tin Roof Sundae ($1.55) which presented us with two ($2.05) and the Chicken Fillet place for a finals study break, 
The Mishawaka-based com­is a perennial favorite made pa~ties, cheese, lettuce, ($1.50). offering an inexpensive and pany has an exclusive con­with an ice cream of choice, tomato and mayonnaise. Like Also available are soup, welcome change from the tract with Notre Dame, so all either chocolate syrup or hot all Bonnie Platters, the entree chicken and tuna salad, green Huddle and fast food. If you the ice cream served on fudge, spanish peanuts and came with two choices of salads, Fillet 0' Fish, B.L.T.s can't make it there by next campus is Bonnie Doon's. whipped cream. fries, cottage cheese, coles­and grilled cheese to name a week, store number 5 (the They manage to do things The Doon adds a few law, tomato and lettuce, ap­few. location, or indeed existence, with it though, that Univer­squirts of syrup in the bottom plesauce or peach slices. Store number 7 is located of a number 6 eludes us) is sity Food Services just can't. of the glass too and gives you The fries are of the thick on U.S. 31 North, just north of located on Lincoln Way West, 
This is the place to get a spoon just long enough to and slightly underdone vari­Denny's and Tivoli's. It is the just east of Michiana shakes, malts, floats and reach it. ety, but everything else was smallest and most unassum-Regional Airport. 
Bonnie Doon is the perfect place for a finals study break, offering an inexpensive and welcome change from the Huddle and fast food. 
Thursday, May 4, 1989 
The Observer page 13 
Montreal earns shutout, knots series with Flyers 
After dropping Game 1 , Canadians resume quest for Stanley Cup with 3-0 win over Philly 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL--Patrick Roy stopped 24 shots for his second career playoff shutout and Montreal's sputtering power play accounted for two goals as the Canadiens defeated the Philadelphia Flyers 3-0 Wed­nesday night, evening the Wales Conference finals at one win each. 
Roy, whose 34-game un­beaten streak at the Forum was ended in the opener. earned his first playoff shutout since a 3-0 victory over Calgary in Game 4 of the 1986 finals. 
The Canadiens, who entered the game 6-for-36 during the playoffs on the power play, got a first-period goal from Step­bane Richer during a 5-on-3 ad­vantage and added another from rookie defenseman Eric Desjardins in the second. 

Only the play of goaltender Ken Wregget, the hero of the Flyers' 3-1 opening-game vic­tory, kept the score down. Wregget made 36 saves as the Flyers were outshot 39-24. The series resumes Friday night in Philadelphia. 
Montreal, which has allowed only two power-play goals in 11 playoff games, shut down the Flyers' league-leading unit, holding Philadelphia scoreless on four attempts. The Flyers are 0-for-9 with the man­advantage in the first two games. 
Roy earned an assist on Ric­her's goal, which gave the Canadiens their first lead of the series. 
Richer took a pass from Roy, skated the length of the ice and fired a slap shot from 45 feet. Wregget made the save but Richer raced in and took the rebound away as Wregget tried to pull it under his pads with his stick. The Montreal for­ward flipped the puck into the open net at 5: 31. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.rn. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 until3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Sub-Leasing 2 Bdrm Apt for Summer FOR SALE: Wafer Bed, Small Fridge, HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­Two years ago the Board of Trustees MOLLY M --In response to your At Turtle Creek Entertainment Center, TOM, 287-5758 MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from claimed it would divest, ifthe situation in 
recent criticisms pertaining to my char­Call PauH<en 272-3694 Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland lor no

I NOTICES 
South Africa worsened. acter, I have several responses 1) Get a CAR TOP LUGGAGE CARRIER. $65. more then $180 with AIRHITCH (TM), It has. 
real hair stvle 2) I have vour underwear 239-5419. as reported In Consumer Reports, NY RALLY AGAINST APARTHEID --HappyTYPING AVAILABLE 
LIVE OFF CAMPUS 2 bedroom fur­Times, Let's Go, and national network THURS. 12:15 at Fieldhouse Mall 287-4082 
nished home for 1989-9 Safe & con­60 wt. Sony receiver bought new B mos morning ahowa. For details, call 212­venient area. Next to other NO rentals. ago. Best offer. Call Jeff-1474 864-2000 or write: AIRHITCH(TM), 
SHUT UP, MARY-ANNI

Private parking, large yard, basket ball 2901 Broadway, Suite 100G, NY, NY SO CAL TRUCK NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks lor 
court. Call Bruce: 288-5653 or 234-3831 Brand naw ELECTRONIC BATTLESHIP 10025. LOADING 5112 CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacl<sl Cash 
game for sale. Paid $45, asking $20 call STEPAN or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 
MOVE OFF CAMPUS 4 bedroom fur­Jana 258-0129 THANK YOU ST. JUDE 2-5 BOB Howard St. just off of N.D. 
nished home for 1989-9 Safe & con­HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!

Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 
venient area. Next to other NO rentals 1979 VW Rabbit. Perfect student car call -ATTENTION-To the babes of summer.
233-2342 234·6497 ANYONE WANTING TO TRANSPORT ATTENTION FINE MEN OF SOUTH 
JENNY LEDAICK ITEMS HOME ON THE QUAD: The finest women of north quadPrivate parking, large yard, basket ball 
July 30th NORTHWEST BAGGAGE TRUCK want to meet you under the Dome RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a court. Call Bruce 288-5653 or 234-3831 SUE VONLUHRTEcomputer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­DROP BY RM 358 ALUMNI TO GET RSVP 
August 6th FORMSvice anytime at 299-{1063. Need rooms lor grad. wkend? Three rms. 
[ TICKETS Love, Jerryavailable in house close to campus. Call LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLE BOSTON SUMMER APARTMENT, 1 HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS Tom 277 ·6380. 
QUESTION: CALL 1222 RAY BDAM., AVAILABLE WITH 2 SMC SHAWN-I know how uncertain you areVOCATION COUNSELING for the ONE­I need 5 graduation tix-call Torn 3155 1132 JOHN GRADS. JUNE TO SEPT. CALL KATHY 
abou1 your fulure, bu1 I am sure about 617-262-5001.
YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and TURTLE CR. APT FOR SUBLEASE or 3157 one thing-these have been the greatest
other ministry opportunities. Contact: FR. OVER Summer Mo. FURNISHED CALL JOHN CONLEY. CSC BOX 541 NOTRE MATT 3255 ATTN SRS! Need 3 grad tix for my 
FIRST TIME AT SAINT MARY'S Need one graduation ticket. Call three months, and it's all because of you.DAME 239-6385 grandparents coming from SEATTLE! 
ALAN SAVE & THE MCNEILS Rosemary # 2780 Thanks and Good Luck. LOVE, Ann NEED AN APT FOR SUMMER? I HAVE Will pay $$$-Call Michelle X3820 
FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1989 TYPING-tat drafts provided. 233-1485. ONE FURNISHED. CALL 2598. CHEAP! HAGGAR TERRACE HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY MAURA! 
2 blka. from campus. I NEED GRAD TIX! GRANDPARENTS FREE FOOD THE CLUB FRIDAY LUNCH SEAN AND Love, your roomies NEED HOUSE FOR FALL? FUAN. 3 COMIN FROM PUERTO RICO. 't-3 5:30-7:30 THE SUN KINGS 12-2 MAY 5TH LAST ST. LOUIS CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK BD., CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 289­
NEEDEDIIII!!! CALL FRED 272-4474 SPONSORED BY SMC CLASS OF '92. ONE 
Drop Off: Friday May 14 8539 
ALL ARE WELCOME. Hey Seidler-you may win at wrestling, Notre Dame: Stepan Courts 
NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS 277-SCRUBS! SCRUBS! SCRUBS! Jade but I am one up on you with sleep. Good 9:00a.m.-! :OOp.m. 
0593 Green Tops & Bottoms Low Prices Call luck with the experiment and exams. The St. Mary's: Front of LeMans 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER has gifts Tam my 284-5134 or Kathy 284-4332 one you call 'Dork' 4:00p.m. -6:00p.m. 
WANTED w·iii·p~y·t~~··g·;~d...ti~k~t·~:·~~ii·J~~-·~:;2~· for MOTHER's DAY, May 14. Stop in 
Any Questions Call Jim 283-3077 Do you have a bike to sell? I'm interested! 
7496 soon for the best selection in baskets, Jackie K. I've had "The time of my life" Call Laura x2811.
tins, and other collect· abies. WE SHIP and I owe it all to you. Dandng won't be HOUSESITTERS AVAILABLE FOR 89­
AGENTS NEEDED! $350.00 PER DAY I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS! CALL PACKAGES UPS DAILY! LET THE the same ~hout you. I'll miss you. Good
90 Adult, responsible, experienced. Fac­April 30, 1989 207 Campus View "I think PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! 
ROBERT 271-8323 COUNTRY HARVESTER help you get luck and God bless. I love you. 
ulty references. Marl< or Kristin 287-9616 God pu1 a spanish fly in my bodyr
those heavy boxes home NOW!!I 239· HarryPEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE SMA
HELP!!! I need graduation tickets and 6714 La Fortune Basement
NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1­TOMORROW IS THE LAST DAY OF have extra $$$. Want to trade? Call315-733·6063 EXTENSION P-2382.

PUBLICATION FOR THE OBSERVER. 
x3613 and leave a message. SKYDIVING LAST CHANCE TO TRY Robin, Could I possibly see you naked? 
IF YOU WANT TO GET A CLASSIFIED HEY JUDI K. WHO'S GONNA TAKE ME 
CAU DEAN 287-3024 Your BelovedROOMMATE WANTED FOR SUM·
IN FOR FRIDAY, YOU NEED TO BE UP TO THE ZOO? I'LL MISS YOU NEXT
PLANE TICKET TO PHILADELPHIAMERSCHOOL ALREADY HAVE TURT.
BY 3 PM TODAY. YEAR! & GOOD LUCK IN MEXICO ANH 
MAY 12 $75. 239-6208 (DAYS) 287· NEED RIDE TO SOUTH FLORIDA Katie, Could you bring bad< one of those CREEK LEASE CALL X1169 FOR INFO YIEU EM
1243 (NIGHTS). french bikinis next year? Love, Tom P.S. Help. Help. Help. I need a ride to Fort Don't tell Steve! 
THUY 
Need Ride to DC AREA 5'22, Mary 3745. LUNCH FRIDAY AT 
Lauderdale after exam week. Call Will atALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB SEAN AND

WANTED:10 SPEED BIK£.272-6306 

283-2089 if you have space. BANDS WANTED to play Senior Dis·
\ LOST/FOUND ) 
THE SUN KINGS Pup,Dimby,Legs,Woofit,Sexman,Shaggy orientation Week Picnic AUG. 28 ~inter­12-2 LAST 1WANTED: 

Ratty,Pumpkin,Gooch,Roba,Worm,Pat ested call Dianna 2639 Three piece cushion couch in rei. good
LOST: Wallet in Cushing Aud. on Mon Party Q,Cossy,and Neiers Thanks for 4124 11:OOam. PLEASE call2702 if you giving great parties, for coming to great TOM SCHLEGEL
cond. call x4003 WILL PAY FOR GRAD TIX. CALL 2533. 
have it-1 need my ID's and key! Mar· parties in Badin and for being great Good luck on your easy engineering
Need RIDE to DC AREA 51.11 

Thanks for being such an awesome friends over the past two years. Have a exams. I'll miss you over the summer. LOST...Help a blind woman see again I Mary 3745 roommate this year! great summer! Love, Ka~n Take cere. N. lost my blue framed glasses in a blue Love, Sarah case Fri nile! Please call Tracy X3199 
PERSONALS 
Celina Lenehan Loses! Just kidding, 

AMY and CATV: What would I heve done Ween. Thanx for a fun time on Saturday. FOUND: brown leather jacket in soul this year without you two cwazy girls? I Remember-WE WIN! John dining hall-to claim call x3528 with FOR SALE love you guys! You are the greatest!!
hi agdescription. Heh LIZ SWEENEY! I hope you're Love, Ka~tyn UVA Are you going to UVa next year? 
feeling better honey. Good luck on Need a roommate? I am and do. Chris LOST AFTER THE MCATS IN 303 CUS. LOFT-$45 ALL LANDWATER SPORTS finals and don't forget to take all your 288-1353 HING, WESTBEND TIMER. PLEASE GREY CARPET,LIKE NEW,8'x10'-$60 drugs. Lyss and Georgie: We tried to come up 
SUMMER JOBS 

PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS CALL GUY AT 283-4586. STEREO CABINET-$10 with a cute ad but you hed already stolen 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 4 DRAWER CHEST-$15 Summer jobs-Camp Winnebago boys all the good quotes. We love you guys
NEAR LAKE PLACID TRICIA CHAMBERS: Sorry I walked FOUND: AT BOOKSTORE ON FRIDAY, BLACK-WHITE RECLINER-$25 camp In Maine looking lor dynamic anyway. Get psyched for next year!
CALL 1-800-343-8373. right by and didn't say hi yesterday. Call ONE BASKETBALL JERSEY. CALL J.C. ~ dain bramage. Good lucl< on finals! Matt 
X3201 cering counselor Instructors. Can you AT 1001 TO IDENTIFY teach any of the following-tennis, C. 2 FISHER 3Way speakers good condi­swimming (ALS or WSI), soccer, Love,Ka~ and Nan
EYE CONTACT BRAND NAME LOST: black tux jacket from Senior For­tion Pete X4016 LENSES START AT 19.95 EA. 1-800-baseball, basketball, waterskiing, mal. Call Jim at 271-9812 255-2020. selling, canoeing, camping skills, LOT FOR SALE: Yogi Bear-Plymouth, AFTER HOURS Happy 19th Kevin Lennon!
dreme, radio, archery, or can you play LOST: Red CeBe Windbreaker at IN. See all Notre Dame Games, Camping ATTENTION: plano or do office work. Age 19 plus. SRUOH RETFA your (cheap) roommate at its best! Join Coast to Coast. 219-522-AFTER HOURS
Recess Fri. Night. Please call Mike at ANYONE LIVING IN NYC AREA Transportation provided. &17-817. x1562. NEED THINGS SHIPPED HOME?
3821 Call Phil Lilienthal BOG-252-1705 or Tonlght at Murphy'a Ia your Ia at One roommate needed for six man house
wrfte1606 Washington PIIWI, Reston, LARGE REFRIGERATOR JOHNX2193 chance thts year to gat rocked wtth for next year. Will have own bedroom. 
CAU JOHN AT 271-8704 OR 
LOST: SA FORMAL 35MM NIKON, HAS 283-1789 (AFTER !O:OOPM) VA 22090. 
AFTER HOURS! We'll be playing from Contact Rick or Mike at x3305.
ALL MY PIX. PLEASE CALL MARY 
BIG DISCOUNTS ON IBM PRODUCTS 1Opm 'Ill Retch can no longer pop hill
HEY DUDES & DUDETTES NO Computer Store 239-7 4 77 G-atrfng. 
ANNE 2595. 
HOPING TO ADOPT TICKET TO LOS ANGELES Leaving LOST: BLACK & GOLD WATCH AT We're happily married, financially THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER AFTER HOURS Monday after Graduation SBN to O'Hare, 
a SMC AN TOSTAL PICNIC. A SEN­secure couple with a beautHul home IS THIS FRIDAY, MAY 5. GET YOUR KNIRD NAC UOY LLA O'Hare to LAX $125 or best offer Call TIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. CALL FOR SALE: small fridge, bookcase, lg. and Iota of love to share with a much­GOODBYE CLASSIFIEDS IN EARLY. AFTER HOORS Heather at 283·2813 284-4319. dresser x3138 eves. wanted baby. If you are pregnant and 
DEADLINE FOR FRIDAY'S PAPER IS 

considering adoption, please call ua. 3 PM THURSDAY. TRY TO GET IN DO YOU NEED A RIDE HOME OR DO 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY PATRICK KEARNS
Lost AT SENIOR FORMAL: men's Panasonic M1n Bike. Uke New! Call Tom. Expenses paid. Confidential, legal. EARLIER THAN THAT. YOU HAVE THINGS TO SEU? TODAY 
The e~ is finally twenty. Now that you're
tuxedo jacket. Please call Jim at # 271-277-0725 Please cell Deborah and David collect IS THE LAST CHANCE TO GET YOUR 
mature does this mean no hot pink pants, 
98121 THANKS! day or night at 312-935-4088. MOTORCYCLE FOR SALE Honda CLASSIFIED IN FOR TOMORROW'S '80 Toyota Corolla air,AMFM 72,000 NightHawk 450cc Awesome cruiser! As· LAST ISSUE. THE DEADLINE IS 3 PM
mexican blankets or boxers to SYRs? I hope not...You could try jeans that f~
FOUND: Hacl<y Sack by STEPAN courts miles, excellent condijion.288-8130 JUNIORS king Under $400 call 287-5264 ask for TOOAY. DON'T SAY YOU HAVEN'T 
though! Have a great birthday, from the
Tues 4124. If ~·s yours, call 1501 JUNIORS Brian BEEN WARNED. 
BFA who plays in mud LIVING AT TURTtLE CREEK NEXT YR? IN PROFILE
································································ HAND COMPLETED 
worm 5 party (whrp) fri at stanford PHILADELPHIA 1YR.OLD BED,$100; 3-DRAWER FORM TO CAREER & PLACEMENT 
It was actually Gooch who fraudulated SET,$35 CALL JULIE# 272-2370 SERVICES OFACE BEFORE LEAVING 
that quot& abou1 coed housing -he just SOUTH JERSEY, S.E. PENNA.

WHAT'UP DOGS? I NEED A AIDE(WITH STUFF) 
FOR RENT 
CAMPUS THIS SPRING. 

looks innocent! WATERBED FOR SALE ... queen size in­
YOU KNOTT GIRLS ARE AWESOME ... CALL DAVE 2258Moving to NYC? cludes heater, bacl<board, and five year JUNIORS NOTIIIII! 
To the Members ol the Hawaii Club: Lg 1 bdrm. apt. for rent Aug. 1. Good warranty...Bmths old $120 call277-4416 GOOD LUCK ON RNALSt thank you for a great Luau: we all enjoyed 

JUNIORS -DEB'S MATT HAND IN COMPLETED PROFILE FRESHMENmidtown loc. AC, DW & lg closets. Per­the wonderful dances and the great food. 
fect for share. Call Betsy or Jackie. (212) '76 GRAND PRIX-AIR, CRUISE, PS, 582-4250. PB, EXCELLENT RUNNING COND. 
FORM TO CAREER & PLACEMENT DEBRA-I'LL MISS YOU II! FRESHMEN -a very pleased audience! 
SERVICES OFRCE BEFORE LEAVING YOU'RE THE BEST! FRESHMENI! CAMPUS THIS SPRING. Class Mass this SATURDAY at 4:00PM 
VERY RELIABLE. TRY IT OUT!! X3201 

LOVE, MATT at the Grotto with Fr. Monk Malloy Rain? 
SUMMER APARTMENT IN TURTLE $650 TO SCOTT F. JOHN P. AND FITZ 
CREEK. ONE ROOMMATE OR TWO THANKS FOR THE MONUMENTAL
Go to Stanford1<eenan Chapel 
SUBLETTERS NEEDED. CALL 284-CARPET COACHING. BUT NEXT TIME, LETS 4387 STACY OR JAN ENE AFTER 8 PM. PLUSH TEXTURED BROWN, LIKE LAST COMEDY ZONE OF THE YEAR!! PRACTICE PENALTY KICKS! SO ... NEWI FITS ANY SINGLE-$60 JUNIORS WHEN'S THE OLD BANQUET? AND
THURSDAY NIGHT AT THEODORE'S 

IN ALL SERIOUSNESS STUDIO APT PANASONIC HAND IN COMPLETED PROFILE CHIP SHAIA: All the members of the op­LOVE AND LICKS, FARLEY'S FINEST SUB-LEASING TURTLE CREEK STEREO JUNIORS WHO'S PAYING THE BILL? ... HA! HA! 
IN ALL SEAIOSNESS 
A COMEDY TROUPE THAT YOU

FOR SUMMER PRICE NEGOTIABLE CASSi!ECEIVERII'URNTABLE IN FORM TO CAREER & PLACEMENT posite sex long for a place in your heart. SOCCER TEAM 
DON'T WANT

CALL 272-0389 ONE-SPEAKERS INCL.-$75 SERVICES OFRCE BEFORE LEAVING Remember us when you are gone. -One 
X3201 CAMPUS THIS SPRING. TO MISS!! of your many secret admirers. SHOW STAATS AT 9:00 
2 BEDROOM HOUSE:on ND Ave also KEGERATOR FOR SALE SELL to BEST GO HOME! HEY DAN--Willy Nelaon and Pat O'Leary 
FURNISHED ROOMS near ND:$120 mo OFFER full size w' hoses,C02 call 287 • NEED A VEHICLE? GREAT VAN AND 1 TOLD YOU TO WATCH FOR IT!! ISNT will auction the original chains, whips, 272-6306 3024. TRUCK PRICES-ONE WAYS STILL IT NICE TO BE ABLE TO DEPEND CllN Harley helmets, and steriod syringes AVAIL. CALL X1143 FOR INFO. SOMEONE? HEY, AT LEAST I RENEw used by their mothers during an anti­
The boycott on Coke is over. The Sou1h

2 HOUSES FOR RENT 89-90 SCHOOL Carpet, Chest of Drawers, Fan Metal Book YOUR FAITH IN WOMEN AT NO! HAVE feminist march last week in Bangme,African government has cleaned up ~s
YEAR. SAFE NEIGHBORHOOilS. FOR She~.Shoe Aacl< Aatan Love Seat, Fridge CHAMPIONS Ia coming soon to the A GREAT DAY! Maine. Friday 4:00 344 Alumni. All their MORE INFO, CAU CHUCK GLORE Small Table w-Orawers Must Sell-Call NO Bookstore. Don't leave lor home LOVE SIS friend are welcome. 232-1776. 1667 without It! act! Catch the Wave! -Stewart Healy 
---~-----------------~~-·-~-~ 
page 14 The Observer Thursday, May 4, 1989 

THANKS FOR SHOPPING WITH US! 
THIRD ANNUAL 
Student Appreciation Sale 
10°/o Off Your Purchases* 
MAY 5, 1989 Just Show Your I.D. Card 
I I I I I 
t . 
~ --· 
t 
. . .. 11111111 
~----~·~--­

r-------,··--------­

1 HOT AIR I STEAM AND DRYT CLOTHES I 
I POPCORN I TRAVEL IRON I STEAMER I POPPER I I I I I I I 
!"·-1"-1"-i
1Address 1Address . 1Addft"NN 1I !Phone I Phone I Phone I 
I r--------1--------i---------t
STUFFED BEAR I WAGON BONUS ISTUDENT DRAWINGI I BONUS I I TABLE BONUS I 
I I
I 
I I I
I I Register to Win I Register to Win I a Drawing Table
II I I a I I 
,_ 
1 1 Radio Ayer Wagon I 1 I 
I IName , I Name 1Name_ I 
I 
1Address 1Address 1Address 1 1Phone 1Phone I Phone 1 
!---------~--------L--------J
THANKS FOR SHOPPING WITH US! 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
*NOT APPLICABLE TO-TEXTBOOKS, CASSETTES, CD'S, FILM, FILM PROCESSING & HEALTH AND BEAUTY AIDS. 
.-----------------------------------­
Thursday, May 4, 1989 
The Observer page 15 
Two straight Braves close flood gates against Phils for Mohan Smaltz tosses six-hitter, hits homer to help Atlanta end losing streak 
Special to The Observer 1 with his fifth home run in the from Juan Agosto for his second Brewers 7, Twins 2 second and Blauser's first home run.
Associated Press 

Notre Dame golfer Pat homer led off a three-run 
Indians 6, Royals 2
Mohan was recently named seventh.
ATLANTA--Rookie John MINNEAPOLIS--Gary Shef­to the Golf Coaches Associ­
Smoltz pitched a six-hitter and CLEVELAND--Shortstop field and Rob Deer each hit
Reds 6, Mets 4 
ation of America Academic 
hit his first career home run Kurt Stillwell dropped Joe two-run homers during a five­All-America team for the Wednesday night as the At­NEW YORK--Chris Sabo Carter's two-out pop fly, allow­run third inning as Milwaukeesecond-straight year with a lanta Braves ended an eight­snapped a seventh-inning tie ing two runs score during a beat Minnesota 7-2 Wednesday3.066 GPA in Accounting. 
game losing streak, beating the with a sacrifice fly and Barry three-run fourth inning, as night to snap a five-game losing Philadelphia Phillies 6-3. Larkin followed with another Cleveland beat Kansas City 6-2 streak.
Mohan is only the third Smoltz, 4-2, gave up Juan sacrifice fly Wednesday night, Wednesday night and snapped The Brewers sent the tum­Irish golfer to win this award Samuel's home run to start the leading the Cincinnati Reds the Royals' four-game winning bling Twins to their lOth loss in two years in a row. The 
others were John Anthony game but did not allow another past the New York Mets 6-4. streak. their last 11 games. Prior to ('84,'85) and Dick Connelly hit until the sixth inning. He Reds manager Pete Rose Tom Candiotti, 3-1, pitched a their losing streak, the struck out nine and walked two. missed his third consecutive seven-hitter for his second Brewers had swept a three­
('86,'87). 
Smoltz went 2-for-3 and his game with bronchitis and flu complete game, striking out six game series against the Twins two-run homer put Atlanta symptons. Coach Tommy and walking one to give the In­in Milwaukee, outscoring Min­Mohan, who finished with ahead 3-1 in the fifth. His 428-Helms is managing in his ab­dians their fifth victory in their nesota 27-8.
the best average on the team 
foot drive to center field came sence. last six games. 
for the second year in a row, 
also was named team MVP after Bruce Benedict singled Mariners 3, Tigers 2 for the second consecutive with two outs against Don Car­Expos 6, Astros 5 Blue Jays 2, Athletics 0 man, 1-4.
year. 
Dale Murphy and Jeff MONTREAL--Spike Owen TORONTO--Mike Flanagan SEATTLE--Jim Presley hit Blauser also homered for At­hit a two-run homer in the nth pitched a four-hitter for his 19th his first home run in 207 at-batsHe received All-MCC lanta. Murphy tied the score at inning Wednesday night, rally­career shutout as the Toronto and rookie Erik Hanson al­honors last fall 
ing the Montreal Expos over Blue Jays beat the Oakland lowed four hits in 6 2-3 innings Houston Astros 6-5. Athletics 2-0 Wednesday night. as the Seattle Mariners beat The Astros took a 5-4 lead in The Blue Jays entered the the Detroit Tigers 3-2 Wednes­
r:::==~--11!'1 ONCE UPON ATIME ••• 
the top of the nth on Ken game having lost four straight day to complete a three-game
When Notre Dame was not so big, nor nearly as famous as 

Caminiti's run-scoring single games and eight of their last sweep.
RHUCTIONS 
she is today. the makers of the "Notre Dame Mystique" walked 

before Montreal came back. nine. The victory was the first The last time the Mariners
the campus. Take a trip through time in the first-person singular with 

Nelson Santovenia singled with for Toronto over the A's in the swept a three-game series
IN ...,..._. 
twenty-four of Notre Dame's more distinguished writers, 

one out and Owen hit a 2-0 pitch last eight games at Exhibition from the Tigers was May 30­
-.-­
including Fr Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Prof. Ed Fischer,

TH( -­
Stadium. June 1, 1986, also in the
Prof. Tom Stritch, Prof. Robert Leader, Gov. john Gilligan. 

Angels 2, Orioles 0 Kingdome. Detroit has lost
Alumni writers include coach Ray Meyer, Ed Haggar, Con­

OOMl 
seven of its last eight games. "It's a nostalgic. impressionistic look at our university 
gressman Ron Mazzoli, Sally Stanton Mackenzie. and others. 

BALTIMORE--Jack Howell Hanson, 3-2, allowed two
'j 
L 
through the eyes of those who lived and taught here:· 

homered on Bob Milacki's first runs, one earned. He struck out 
-->-r 
To order REFL.ECfiONS IN THE DOME, complete the 

pitch of the ninth inning to snap six and walked four walks 
111111 ,, "'" 1 "'"" " coupon below and return it with your check (or charge it to 
a scoreless tie and California before Dennis Powell relieved postage and handling) to: Hammes Notre Dame' Bookstore, 
L__________, 
your credit card) for $11.95 per book (inlcudes $2.00 for 

beat Baltimore 2-0 Wednesday with the bases loaded in the Please send cop)·(ies) of Notre Dame, IN 46556. seventh.
night. RERECI'IONS IN TilE DOME: SIXTY YEARS OF LIFE AT NOTRE DAME Milacki, 1-2, pitched eight­Powell struck out pinch­
PLEASE PRINT: 
plus innings and allowed six hitter Gary Ward to end the in­NAME-------------------­hits in losing his first game in ning. Mike Schooler pitched 1 five career starts at Memorial 1-3 innings for his fourth save. 
MIDR~-------------------------------------­
Stadium.

CITY. mTE.7JP _________________ 
~UP~------------------------------------­
For aedit card charges. please complete the additional inbmation. 
CREDIT CARD#-----------EXPIRY-----­
SIGNATURE ___________________ 
HANDS DOWN, RA BOUND ... O'D WAS FACE DOWN! 




page 16 The Observer Thursday, May 4, 1989 
Kline 
continued from page 20 
Dame fanatic. "He's a true legend in Notre Dame baseball. I just hope I can touch half as many people as Jake has." 
Kline posted a lifetime coaching record of 558-449-5 at Notre Dame. His former players include future Hall of Fame inductee Carl Yastrzemski, Notre Dame Ath­letic Director Richard Rosen­thal, South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan and Montreal Expos President John McHale. 
All those former players learned a song about Kline that the Irish teams passed on from year to year. It dealt with a 1917 game against Michigan in which third baseman Kline hit three home runs. 
"We beat Michigan 14-6 that day," said Kline, who still has that afternoon's game ball in his South Bend apartment. "The kids used to sing 'Coach hit three home runs...and the fourth was foul by inches.' " 
Kline captained that 1917 team and also earned monograms in 1915 and 1916. The Williamsport, Pa., native posted a career average of around .350. 
That impressed the Pit­tsburgh Pirates enough to draft Kline, but he passed up the of­fer to go to France and serve with the 23rd Engineers in World War I. 
"I had small hands, but I could hit and had a good arm," said Kline, who also played In­terhall baseball against Knute Rockne. "I might have had a chance (in the pros) . " 
Notre Dame named Kline the Director of Athletics and of­fered him a teaching job in the math department when he came home. 
The Notre Dame job did not prevent Kline from doing some moonlighting in semipro leagues. 
"I managed baseball in Cal­ifornia, I won a pennant in the Southern Minnesota League, I played in Nova Scotia," said Kline. "I was a baseball bum." 
When the Notre Dame Ath­letic Department finally handed Kline a full-time job, however, it came in football. 

"When Rockne was killed in '31, Jess Harper met me on campus and asked me what I was doing," said Kline. "I told him I was teaching math. He asked if I would come out and coach freshman football." 
It did not take long before Kline got the opportunity to co­ach in the sport he enjoyed the most. The 39-year old Kline replaced George Keogan, who left in 1934 to concentrate on his job as basketball coach. 
Kline also continued jobs as freshman football coach and math professor, but his teams managed to win. After an 8-11 campaign in his debut season, the Irish assembled six con­secutive winning seasons. Notre Dame went on to earn its first berth to the NCAA playoffs in 1949. 
Kline's connections with the football team helped him put together strong teams with a limited amount of scholar­ships. 
One of the best players to take the field for Kline--Joe Theismann--earned more ac­claim as quarterback for Notre Dame and the Washington Redskins. 
"We made a southern trip, and the scouts there said, 'Jake, the kid with the best potential is that third baseman, Theis­mann,' " said Kline. "He hap­pened to be a quarterback, and when we got back, Ara said, 'Jake, I gotta have him.' " 
Notre Dame never played many more than 20 games per season in those days. The Uni­versity would not allow Kline to expand that schedule. 
"I played most of the Big Ten schools,'' said Kline. "With the schedule down to 20 games, you didn't have the chance to play anyone else.'' 
Because the University of­fered the baseball program as few as one or two scholarships, Kline also had to rely on inside contacts to draw athletes. 
Former Notre Dame player John McHale became one such inside contact. After ending his major league career, McHale started a career working on teams' staffs. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer )Mt advertising. JUt 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 
SUB'S R.EFRIGERATOR RETURN/SALE 
DATE: Friday, May 5th 
TIME: 2:30 PM-5:30 PM 
PLACE: Stephan Center 
NEED TO BRING: Refrigerator that is clean and defrosted to receive initial deposit OR money to buy your refrigerator; $25 for small and $40 for large. (We keep your deposit). 
SEE YOU THERE! 
"I knew Jake very well, and we've remained friends a long time," said McHale, who worked as farm director for the Detroit Tigers and as general manager with the Mil­waukee·Atlanta Braves before arriving at Montreal. "He told us about the people he liked. He was a very good judge of talent, and he saw a lot of good players because he was playing Big Ten teams." 
According to McHale, this practice also worked the other way around. McHale claims re­sponsibility for bringing Carl Yastrzemski to Notre Dame. 
"I encouraged Carl Yastrzemski to go to school there," said McHale, who worked with the Detroit Tigers at the time. "We had a bonus rule in the major leagues then which limited how much you could pay a person. We thought they'd repeal the bonus rule, which they did." 
Yastrzemski only stayed at Notre Dame for his first year, and freshmen were not eligible to play varsity sports at the time. He still managed to leave a lasting impression on Kline. 
''He came out on his own, and I told him that freshmen weren't eligible, but I let him walk on the freshman team,'' Kline said of Yastrzemski, who will enter the Baseball Hall of Fame in August. "When I saw his arm and the way he could hit, I told him I'd give him a scholarship for the next year. · 
"In his sophomore year, his family came to my office and told me he was getting profes­sional offers," Kline said. "I told him he'd better go see a lawyer. He signed with the Bos­ton Red Sox for $110,000. They certainly weren't the poor potato farmers they made themselves out to be." 
Yastrzemski, the only Amer­ican League player to have more than 400 career home runs and 3,000 career hits, never played for the Notre Dame varsity team or for McHale's team. 
"I called (McHale) and told him he ought to get this kid,'' said Kline. "He said he could get him $60,000. I told him, 'John, forget it.' " 


Jake Kline's sports interests are not limited to baseball alone. At top, he is pictured in 1954 with Irish captain Hal Reilly (right). Below, Kline (third from left) poses with the other members of the 1933 freshman football coaching staff. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore referees may pick up their checks next Wednesday or Thursday in the treasurer's office of student government. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Club of White Hall, Pennsylvania, is holding its annual picnic June 3. Fifteen members of the Irish national champions from that area have been invited to attend. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club annual awards banquet is tonight at the Rathskeller. Dinner is at 6 p.m. or meet at the boathouse at 5:15p.m. Bring friends, only $7. -The Observer 
The Rowing Club will hold a mandatory meeting today at 7:30p.m. in 208 Cushing for all women who wish to row on the varsity next year. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame softball team swept a doubleheader from North Central College Wednesday to run its record to 31-22 for the season. The Irish won the first game 12-2 and were victorious 8-5 in the nightcap. Details will appear in Friday's paper. -The Observer 

dontneed richparents togetacar forgraduation. 
Sentra 
Up to $1000 Rebate 

KILaLEA 
NI-SSAN 
Celebrating our 10th Year Anniversa 1979-1989 
;! .ren.....IIIYd. 
2101 Lincolnway, West 

J ........Aft i Mishawaka, IN' 46556 255-9644 
Pulsar $750 Rebate or 7.9o/0'9.9% financing* 
Get a Nissan• for no money down. No payments for 90 days. Just fill out this card and bring it to any participating Nlssan Dealer. 
r---------~------------­
Name: __________ 
Signature:_________ 
Address: __________ 
City: ---.....51St.a!J.atslii.·--""""-'Zill.i.R--­
School Name:-------­Dealer signature:________ 
Off~o.'f bi t;tttkt fnwm April I~. IWN thnwgh Scph..omb...·r )U l'Ml. Fin.1ncing subil"Ct 11..1 cn.....tit •'Pl'r\Woll. l'r..·vk,y,.~,-.unp.lr;tl1k• Crt.tdil is not f¥<{Uif'ed, 1\tlW\'Vl'f, ol.JV!..""'-' \."n.'\fil m.1y di."i4.JU.ll· ify. Off~..-r not \'lllid in New Je~v. LlmUed lo li~nscd 
drh't"f'518 ~ars uf age and uv...,·wilh wrifiable offeD of ....mpklymt."nl.1flcr ,;radualion. v ..•riflabh.• insurann• COWro\~\.0
·--.:•i=------------------.1 


---~--------~-----~-~~---~--~---·--~--_.,~---.-~~~------------~-~----..-------­
Thursday, May 4, 1989 
The Observer 

Peltier 
continued from page 20 
ally competitive team. Coming off a .414 batting average in his sophomore campaign, people had high expectations for him this year. 
He was a preseason All­America choice by the Copper­tone-Collegiate Baseball poll, and had the third-highest bat­ting average among all return­ing Division I baseball out­fielders. He also was named an Academic All-American, with a 3.4 GPA and a major in Ac­counting. 
With all of these expecta­tions, Peltier hasn't missed a beat. He leads the team with 
ppy Hickster, Debbie, Mel, Obie, Deidre, & Stacy 
111 ~~~~~~ ;;::::;::::;::::::;::;::;:;;::m:i:;;::::::;: 
----....,. 
~CLUB 

It's THURSDAY NIGHT so be sure to bring your CLUB CUP 
FRIDAY 
LOHCH 

tiOOtl-2:00 
CLOSED SATURDAY NIGHT FOR FINALS 
an amazing .458 batting average, and is also the team leader in home runs (9), doubles (20) RBI (57), hits (82), on-base percentage (.523), and slugging average (.754). 
And who says hard work and dedication don't pay off? Pel­tier has just been selected to be one of 40 players who will try out for the 25-member Team USA, a club that plays teams from around the world, including Mexico, Japan, Canada, Korea and Cuba. If he makes the team, Peltier will play 32 games from June through August, travelling to 11 different states and two foreign countries. 
"Dan Peltier leads the team with the bat," says Murphy. "Every game he's out there to play, and we can expect one or two hits a game from him. He's a fantastic, first class worker who has been a major con­tributor to our recent success in baseball." 

Murphy has ingrained an at­titude of winning into his team, and Peltier is no exception. 
"When I go to the plate," says the 6-1, 205-pound junior, "I have the attitude that I'm not going to get out. That's the attitude you've got to have, and that's what Coach Murphy has taught us to do. He's honestly the best coach I've ever had in any sport." 
Peltier has had his share of coaches, playing both baseball and football at Shenendehowa High School in New York. In baseball, he set a school record .554 batting average in his junior year, and was named MVP on the baseball team in his junior and senior years. 
Besides the honors in baseball, Peltier played quar­terback and led his high school team to a 10-0 record and state championship in his senior year. He was recognized for his contribution by being named to the New York All-State team. 
All of these accomplishments behind him, Peltier now has to look ahead to the possibility of pursuing a professional career in baseball. Professional teams have shown a great deal of in­terest in him, and Peltier has a tough decision ahead of him whether to turn pro this year or wait until he has graduated. 
rc-ufif-1 
II  OUT!  I  
I  and save  I  
I I  10°/o off your  II  
II FIRST MONTHS RENTALI 816 E McKinley  II1  

and a great situation to takeI 259-0335 I him away from the greatestI I university in the world," says Murphy. "Dan has to do what's1 I right for him right now. He's got to consider whether the or-
I 

l ganization, placement, andI I overall situation is right, andI 1 he has to thoroughly research1 what he's doing. 
I 


1.--"·T·h-er·e-'s-no_q.ue•s•t-io•n•h•e•c•a•n-g•o•o•d•t•h•in•g•s•w•i•ll•h•a•p•p•en_._,_.. 
I I II 
"It's all going to come down to whether it's right for me," says Peltier. "Obviously money is important, and the or­ganization has a lot to do with it. I'm going to have to weigh it (turning pro one year early) against finishing my educa­tion. 
"Whatever decision I make I know it will be the one that's right. If it's right, then I'll do it." 
His coach knows he has the talent to go to the professionals now, and only hopes Peltier throroughly considers his op­tions. 
"It will take a lot of money 
NOTRE DAME 
ROWING CLUB 
THE CREW NEEDS VARSITY AND NOVICE COACHES FOR NEXT YEAR. IF INTERESTED CALL BRIAN LAPPS AT283-1184 
hit in the pros. He could be put in double-A ball right now," continues Murphy. "He's the best college baseball hitter right now, that I've seen." 
Peltier should not be a high risk for professional scouts, be­cause he has maintained excel­lent performance against the best pitchers in the country, in­cluding a 4-for-4 effort last season against Andy Benes, the number one pick in last year's professional draft. Benes cur­rently has four wins and a 0.44 ERA at Wichita (San Diego's class AA affiliate). 
Peltier's dedication in the classroom makes it all the harder to leave prior to achiev­ing a degree. "They (baseball and educa­tion) are both important," says Peltier, "but this year I think my priorities have switched be­cause my baseball future is more definite, but in no way am I neglecting studies. "The bottom line is that if I'm well prepared, then I know 


~~----,
• 327UNC0lNWAYWEST 
Co! 232-3354 

BHIDAL SERVICE FRUIT BASKETS FUNERAL TRIBUTES 
"Recr• ... ~ fie,\ • ~II 
FREE DELIVERY! 
COME IN AND BROWSE ~ Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Sundays 9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon 
SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S SERVING SO. BEND & MISHAWAKA OVER 60 YEARS 

Nothing's certain in 
~9.9c~~!~~~h ;~~s¥rT.,8!~
The weather is unpredictable, the courts have fault lines and your first-round opponent could range from the defend­ing champions to five guys wearing tutus. 
About the only thing you can count on is that it takes 21 points to win. 
Until Sunday. 
While the Stepan crowd celebrated an apparent upset by Malicious Prostitution over Adworks All-Stars, one very important thing was overlooked. The game was not over. The score still stands Prostitution 20, Adworks 19. 
Brian O'Gara Marty Strasen 
Sports Writers 

Both WVFI radio and The Observer had 11-9 scores, and at least three known videotapes of the game verify a two­point Adworks halftime lead. 
The rest of the story is well-known. Prostitution rallied and won the game despite actually scoring only 20 points. 
"It's too bad that the tournament had to end that way," said Manning. "We had a conflict in the score, and we had to go with the official scorecard. We thought it was right. As it turned out, it was wrong." 
It was an honest mistake. It was unintentional. We're not trying to throw stones at the Bookstore officials or scorekeepers, and we're certainly not trying to diminish the accomplishments of Malicious Prostitution. They played like champions. 
But we want more Bookstore. 
One way to settle this is to pick up the game at 20-19 Prostitution. But the mistake was made much earlier, and it would be silly to send everyone back to Stepan for one or two points. 
We could start over at halftime, but we want to see more basketball than that. 
Let's play a best-of-five series, starting Monday. Next week is perfect. There are no classes, it couldn't possibly snow, and there would be no problem with biased coverage because The Observer is taking the week off. 
We could use the electronic scoring scanner from Pop-A­Shot, which automatically registers points when the ball falls through the net. 
Maybe Father Hesburgh could ref. How could you possibly give that guy a hassle? 
OK, perhaps this is a little far-fetched. All it would really take is for the two teams to get together with two hoops and a basketball--first to 21 wins. 
What do you say, guys? 
We'll keep score. 

19:~ears old...• Britstill.brlght &*gorgeous! 
!Jfrtppy rJ3irtfufay 
f!(?v 
Tyson 
continued from page 20 
University. The school 
(hereafter referred to as CSU) 
awarded Tyson an honorary 
doctorate of humane letters 
during commencement 
ceremonies. 
After Tyson was given his 
doctorate, he showed why he 
never has and never will earn 
any kind of degree on his own. 
"I don't know what kind of 
doctor I am," he said. "But 
watching all these beautiful 
sisters here. . .I'm debating 
whether I should be a 
gynecologist." 
The school, which shrugged 
off the comment, said it gave 
Tyson the degree "because of 
the circumstances he over­
came." What about all of the 
ones he has created? 
Tyson's new degree did not improve his common sense much. The next night, Albany, N.Y., police awarded Tyson a speeding ticket after his 1989 · Lamborghini was clocked at 71 
mph in a 30 mph zone.' 
Tyson was apparently drag­
ging a Chevrolet Blazer. Like 
most of his fights, Tyson really 
picked some tough competition 
in that race. If he was going to 
get a ticket, he should have at 
least dragged Jose Canseco in 
Jose's infamous Jaguar. 
The degree makes Tyson's 
resume that much more im­
pressive. Along with this pres~ 
tigious degree, Tyson can also 
boast of soundly beating under­
matched and helpless oppo­
nents, wives and mother-in­
laws. 
CSU continues to support its 
decision to give Tyson the 
degree. In fact, the school has 
already listed its candidates 
for honorary degrees in the 
coming years. 

Here's the list, to be finalized soon: 
Jay Edwards: CSU says it can sympathize with Edwards be­cause of all the people trying to set him up. And besides, CSU tried to lure Bobby Knight to coach its basketball team but he refused, if it even has a bas­ketball team. I doubt that it does because Digger would have had them on his schedule by now. 
Pete Rose: This degree depends on Rose being found guilty of betting on Cincinnati Reds baseball games. CSU says it admires a millionaire who wants to make more money, even if it means being banished from the game he dominated for years. If Rose is innocent, Art Schlichter is waiting in the wings. 
Ben Johnson: The school feels this will increase its com­mitment to foreign exchange students. No matter how many times you show those Olympic replays, Johnson always beats American Carl Lewis. 
Jimmy Johnson, Dennis Erick­son and Larry Brown: They get 
a joint doctorate for commit­ment to football and basket­ball. CSU says the commitment doesn't need to be with one school, just with the same sport within the same continent. 
Norby Walters and Lloyd Bloom: The above athletes and coaches need someone to rep­resent them. The degree may have to wait awhile, in case the two are serving time in a federal prison. 



The #1 Way to Remember ND•s #1 Sea_son­The Limited First Edition of CHAMPIONS: Lou Holtz's Fighting Irish It's the book on Notre Dame's 1988 National Championship year! Written by Bill Bilinski, as­sistant sports editor of the South Bend Tribune and ND's beat reporter, CHAMPIONS is the inside story of the Fighting Irish's return to gridiron glory. CHAMPIONS is an attractive 208-page, $16.95 hardcover, featuring 16 pages of photos and a foreword by Lou Holtz. Copies of the limited first edition of CHAMPIONS will be avail­able at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE next week! So don't leave for home without it! A great Father's Day gift! A publication of Diamond Communications, Inc. South Bend, Indiana ---­'Bill Bilinski's fine book really captures ' ' ~ ll r-..~ ~/ L1 f\J -1 '"' 4 1 r t,1 N S the magic ofan unbelievable season. All Notre Dal'TW fans will enjoy it. '!-Lou Holtz ' D  

r---------------------------~---------------------------------------------------~-----------------~-----------­
Thursday, May 4, 1989 
The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
9:15 a.m. Humanities Colloquium, "On Interdisciplinary 
ACROSS 24 Bobble the 46 Kin of aves. 
Study: Epistemology & Method," by Denis Goulet, Notre 
baseball

Dame professor, Hayes-Healy Room 20. 1 Meerschaum 48 Competitor 
25 Use the wrong 
49 Found5 Teases 

name 9 Plentiful 53 Mimosa tree 
12:30 p.m. Department of Economics Labor Workshop: "Car· 28 Varnish 
55 Mock serenade 

rots and Sticks: The Uses of Wage Discrimination," by 14 Preacher's component Amitava Dutt, Notre Dame professor, Room 131 Decio. sign-off 31 Laboratory 56 Actress Esther 15 Glossy paint: burners Abbr. 
33 Until now 57 Trunk occupant 
4:20 p.m. Department of Physics, "Superconductivity on One 16 Lemur called 34 At the peak 
58 Planetarium in

Dimension," by Nicholas Giordano, Purdue University pro­bashful Billy 
36 Bank customer Chicago
fessor, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
17 Supporters 

38 "Poema del Cid" 59 Unadulterated 19 Hooch is one 
60 Site of Phillips U. 8 p.m. ND Peace Studies Program, Department of History, 20 Self-centered 39 Shaker's 
61 Marble town in

Kellogg Institute and Reilly Center lecture: "Science and 21-floss companion 
Tuscany

Cultural Context: The Eugenics Movement in Latin 41 Begets
22 Old whitewall 62 Sacred chests 

America," by Nancy Stepan, Department of history, Colum­
with new life 43 Ordinal-number
bia University in the Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 63 Comprehends
ending Havana 44 Greene's "The CAMPUS EVENTS landmark Quiet-" DOWN 
23-Castle, 

4 p.m. Women's Softball vs. Valparaiso University. 1 First anniversary 
giftANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

7:30 p.m. Snite Museum of Art film "Singing in the Rain," 2 Mirror product Annenberg Auditorium. 
3 Texas billionaire Ross­4 Total 5 Begins again 

12 Minnelli 30 Protective 47 Declares clothing
6Grant·-13 Donkey. in 49 Hammerhead, Dusseldorf 32Twangy e.g.
(Federal 18 Rhone feeder 35 Athenian patron 
subsidy) so Triple
of the arts 7 Judge's bench 21 Author­51 Weird37 BreathesPassos8 Certain sizes: 40 Where the jet set 52 Gary Cooper 

23 Niggardly one gets wet Abbr. 
role 

25 Expert9 Edmonton is its 42 Kitchen 53 Ancient Syria capital 26 Kind of motif appliance 54 Closing chords 27 Engrave 
45 Monogram of occurrence 28 Tibetan monk 
55 Prod

the 21st U.S. 11 Original model 29 Particle President 57 Belgian resort 
COMICS 
BLOOM COUNTY BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
DIStributed by Univerul Preu Syndic.llll 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILLWATIERSON. 
~t.S ;> ~RE. '(OJ ~~ ~QIJ FOUHP ~liM! \bBBES, n~ li£R£? 'iOO''l£. G:>T TD IS l-IE OK?? ~GlAD 10 Bt SOMEWHERE ! HES NC)\ HURl. SEE '100!.' 
IS HE? bJ'Rt SA!=£ 



ANO SJJI'U>! ('5NIIT) AND 
\(lr,

t()W I ~M.. 
1t:O! 
,\(((,

5-'1 


239-7308 

Sports
page 20 Thursday, May 4, 1989 
Irish set for Wildcat attack 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
The Irish take their 37-12 record into Evanston, Ill., for their second game with the Northwestern Wildcats this season. 
The last time the two teams met, the Irish defeated the Wildcats on their home field on April19. In that game, the Irish overcame a mediocre perfor­mance and relied on help from underclassmen to win 10-8. 

Notre Dame possesses a 49-47 all-time record against the Wildcats. 
"Northwestern is an excel­lent Big 10 baseball team," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "Baseball is the best sport they have on campus. (Northwestern coach) Paul Stevens does an excellent job with that program." 
Northwestern currently owns a 19-25 record, 10-10 in the Big 10. On Wednesday, the Wildcats beat Valparaiso 5-2, a team that Notre Dame struggled to beat earlier in the week. 
The Irish will be trying to regain a little of the confidence that they had early in the season. In the last 13 games, the Irish are 8-4 and have dropped out of the Top 25. 
The Irish will also be limping into the contest, with starters Ed Lund (foot) and Mike Mos­hier (ankle) out with injuries. When they will return is uncer­tain, and the MCC tournament is ri~ht around the corner, May 17-20. 

Jake Kline an ND sports legend 
Editor's note: This is the first in a two-part series profiling Jake Kline, who coached the Notre Dame baseball team from 1934 to 1975. 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
Former University of Notre Dame Professor of Mathema­tics Clarence "Jake" Kline likes to play a numbers game whenever anyone asks his age. 
"I've only got six more years till I turn 100, but if you reverse the digits," I'm only 49," said Kline, who is better known for his 41 years as the Irish baseball coach. "I'll be only 59 next year." 
Kline used a similar trick in 1972, when sportswriters and peers wondered how a 77-year old could continue to coach ef­fectively. 
"I'm not 77," said Kline, born Feb. 18, 1895 (the same day as George Gipp). "You just mul­tiply seven times seven, and it comes out 49." 
Anywone who watched Kline coach at the time might have fallen for that line. Until he retired in 1975 at the age of 80, Kline still was hitting fungoes at infield practice and produc­ing winning teams. 
"I got goosebumps meeting him, "said current Irish coach Pat Murphy, a lifelong Notre 
see KLINE I page 16 


Tyson's behavior not worthy of doctorate I think it was Freud, or some other guy with a lot of time on his hands to do nothing, who said dreams are only fan­tasies that cannot come true. I hope Freud was right because the dream I had the other night turned into a nightmare. It was May 1989 at graduation ceremonies when Father Malloy began to distribute the honorary degrees. The first  
Greg Guffey Assistant Sports Editor  
names seemed deserving--President George Bush and former NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle. Then Malloy paused for the kicker. "It gives me great honor to award this diploma to heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson," Malloy said. Mike Tyson, the man involved in more fights outside the ring than in it? Mike Tyson, the man who probably could not even complete the application to get in here? While hopefully this could never happen at Notre Dame, it did unfortunately occur last week at Ohio's Central State see TYSON I page 18  

Obserrver Staff Report 
Quarterback Kent Graham has announced he is leaving Notre Dame and transfering to another school to continue his football career. 
Graham has narrowed his choices down to Ohio State and South Carolina. He has visited both schools in the past week. He will be required to sit out one season but will have two years of elegibility remaining. 
"My main reason for leaving is the offense going away from a passing style," Graham, a junior from Wheaton, Ill. said. "It's not because of the other quarterbacks coming in. I want to go to another offense and give it a shot. I just want to find an offense that's more suitable for my talents and abilities. 
"It was a hard decision. I love Notre Dame, and I love the players and the coaches. 


_§\/~od 's AII-Am~~LC?!l_ 
The Observer 1 Trey Raymond 

Dan Pe!Her, pictured earlier this season against Illinois-Chicago, is 
presently considering the possibility of pursuing a professional 
baseball career next season. 
Peltier brings meaning to term student-athlete 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Sports Writer 
Most people do not realize the kind of hitter Notre Dame has in Dan Peltier. 
"I don't think the players on the team realize that they're playing with one of the best hitters in the game," says Head Coach Pat Murphy. "Sometimes even I don't realize what a gem I've got." 
This statement may come as a surprise to someone not familiar with the junior centerfielder. After all, being called one of the "best hitters in the game" is no small compliment. But just ask his teammates. 
"People should come out and see for themselves," says leadoff hitter Pat Pesavento. "I love to watch him hit, and I like to get on base because I know he's going to knock me in." 
Indeed, the junior from Clifton Park, N.Y., has been com­ing through with the bat this season. He leads the team in seven offensive categories, and is second on the team in three more. 
"I like the feeling that people have faith in me," says Pe_ltier. "If people have confidence in my abilities, I'm gomg to perform better. You can't let the pressure build on you because if you do, you're not going to play as well." 
Thus far Peltier has dodged the pressure associated with being a star hitter on a nationally competitive team. Coming see PELTIER I page 17 
Graham leaving Notre Dame 
Quarterback seeks offense best fitting his passing style 
The education you get here is awesome." 
Graham was the No.2 quar­terback for Notre Dame's na­tional championship team, playing behind junior starter Tony Rice. He played in 17 
' t. 
Kent Graham 
games for the Irish, starting once, against Boston College in 1987. He completed 33 of 50 passes over the two seasons good for 402 yards. 
"Tony Rice has done such an awesome job," Graham said. "Coach (Lou) Holtz has been really cool about the whole thing. He helped me any way he could to come to a decision. 
"Only a couple of close friends on the team knew," he said. "I tried to hide it. I wasn't sure what I wanted to do. The guys helped me think about it. They understood where I was coming from." 
Graham said he wanted to have his transfer decision made as soon as possible, having other things on his mind. He's getting married May 20 to Courtney Krieg­baum, a student at Wheaton College. 
"I want to emphasize that I really love Notre Dame, and it is a really tough decision to leave. I'm still looking around, trying to find the best possibil­ity." 



