I ~--~-~¢: Januarv highs
J
Ietc.: "Ten Little Indians" review 
· tarm with highs in 
7 i r and cold Friday
(;:=.: / "5/ ::::9 
t· nL~.EC. T I oN:3 sunny and warm 
~ . ;:;. c r: I AL 
..11 t:., .... 
~· -11:· ,,. t.. R Y 'high of 50 . 

IVIEWPOINT: A unique summer jc I
--L··. n
Hr:·c; r::1Y:GH 
. ~F:t'

IN 4 :::.~· -' -· 
_;;> 
'I /1 X'~ " 
·;,... :" t 

VOL. XXII, N0.74 FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 1989 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Soviets massacre Afghan civilians in 'major atrocity' 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan--So­viet gunners wiped out Afghan villages and shelled a mountain tunnel, killing hundreds of civilians along the key highway carrying Red Army soldiers home from Afghanistan, West­ern diplomats said Thursday. 
In Washington, meanwhile, Secretary of State James Baker ordered the closing of the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, the Afghan capital, because of turmoil from the Soviet troop withdrawal. 
Western diplomats in Is­lamabad quoted Afghan sources and a witness as saying the Soviets and Afghan govern­ment troops committed a "major atrocity" on Monday in shelling both ends of the 10-mile Salang Tunnel. 
The tunnel, part of the cru­cial Salang Highway that con­nects Kabul to the Soviet Union, cuts through the Hindu Kush mountains about 60 miles north of the capital. 
The diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity, quoted a report from Kabul as saying: "After shelling the north and south ends of the Salang tunnel, Soviet and Afghan artillery obliterated all dwellings and villages south of the tunnel." 
In Washington, State Depar­tment spokesman Charles Red­man said, "There are eyewit­nesses who say no dwellings remain and hundreds of civilians were killed." 
see AFGHAN page 8 


--~~~-MS _linked
to v1rus like AIDS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON --A genetic test of cells in the blood of patients with multiple sclerosis suggests that the crippling dis­ease is closely associated with a virus similar to the AIDS virus, researchers report. 
E. Prem Kumar Reddy, are­searcher at Wistar Institute in Philadelphia, said the genetic study of blood samples from six multiple sclerosis patients pro­vides "direct proof" that the human T-lymphotropic virus, or HTLV-I, is involved in the MS disease process. 
"This test for the first time shows that if you do sensitive enough assays you can find HTLV in MS patients," Reddy said in an interview. The same tests on 20 healthy people, he 
seeMS page 6 

New bus will run directly from NO to University Park MaU 
By NATASHA WILSON Senior Staff Reporter 
Transpo, the public bus ser­vice of South Bend, recently added a route that runs from the University of Notre Dame to University Park Mall. 

The bus company initiated the new route Jan. 3 in response to numerous requests by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents for convenient public transportation to the mall, ac­cording to Transpo officials. 
The Route Seven Notre Dame-University Park Mall bus operates Monday through Friday on half hour intervals and also on an hourly basis every Saturday. 
Stopping first at Notre Dame's Main Circle, the bus goes to the Hesburgh Library, stops at Ironwood and State Road 23 and arrives at the mall within fifteen minutes of its departure from the library. 
A one-way fare costs 50 cents, and when Notre Dame is in ses­sion the inter-campus shuttle bus may be used to reach Saint Mary's College. 
The new route is a combina­tion of a downtowwtnall route and one which went from campus to downtown, said Transpo marketing and plan­ning manager Mary Beth McAdams 
Previously students had to take the bus to the downtown terminal and transfer to a bus going first to Miami Scottsdale Mall and then finally to Univer­sity Park Mall. 
The school bus which had transported students to the malls on weekends has not been in operation this school year and has been replaced by the Transpo route. 
"By combining the routes we will cut operational costs while 

The Observer I Jennifer Ott 

Logan Center. Logan Center volunteers spend Sat­
Seniors Karen Maier and Jim Mohan try to attract urday mornings working with the mentally handi­volunteers during the social concerns festival for capped in a recreation program. 
increasing our ridership," McAdams said. Transpo hopes to attract Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to the new route with its upcoming promotion, "Notre Dame Night at the Mall," she said. 
On Feb. 9 Transpo will transport students to the mall, where some of the stores will give discounts to students, McAdams said. 
Students will also be able to attend the theater at a special reduced price that night. 
"I'm hoping (the students) will try the bus and see how easy it is to get to the mall and will then continue to ride it," the manager said. 
On weekdays the first mall bus leaves the library circle at 7:35a.m. all at 9:25p.m. 
Monday through Friday Route seven interconnects with the Route eight Miami Scot­tsdale Mall Route. 
On Saturday the bus runs from 7:35a.m. to 5:55p.m. with the last one leaving the mall at 6:10p.m. 
Complete bus schedules can be found next to the Informa­tion Desk in the LaFortune Stu­dent Center. 


New Mac lab to open in library 
By MIKE O'CONNELL News Staff 
Final preparations are being made for the opening of a new computer lab in the Hesburgh Library which will replace the existing twenty-four hour Mac Lab at the Computer Math Build­ing. 
The new computer lab will consist of 40 Macintosh com­puters and 30 IBM PCs mostly from the Comput­eDMath Mac Lab. 
"The new lab will be open to all students with special software applications for ar­chitects and engineers, such as Generic CAD, Turbo Pas­cal, and Quick C," said Carolyn Goodnight of the Computing Center and Mathematics Building. 
"Once the computers have been moved to the new lab, one possibility would be to expand the Computer Repair Center into the exist­ing space." she said. 
Goodnight said she hopes to open the new lab by early March and complete it by May. 
But it remains uncertain whether or not there will be access to computers on a 24­hour basis. 
"We're aware of the prob­lem concerning students, and we hope to have 24-hour access in the LaFortune 
see MAC page 5 

------~­
page2 The Observer Friday, January 27, 1989 
IN BRIEF 
Two Notre Dame students have been named the first Exxon Scholars in a new program by the Exxon Research and Engineering Co. to assist minority students in engin­eering. Cheryl Gomez, a mechanical engineering junior from Pueblo, Colo. and Bruce Savage, an aerospace engin­eering sophomore from Chicago, will each receive a $3,000 tuition award for the spring semester and will continue through graduation. Both students have been offered sum­mer employment with Exxon, which has also given $5,000 to support the University's Minority Engineering Pro­gram. At Notre Dame, only one quarter of black Americans and half of Hispanics who enroll in engineering actually graduate in the field. The Minority Engineering Program, directed by Assistant Dean John Miles, provides individual counseling, tutoring, field trips, special workshops and visits by succesful minority engineers. -The Observer 
Andrew Hollander has been named assistant to Notre Dame's dean of administration. Hollander will maintain faculty data and supervise the microcomputer support of the office of the dean of administration and registrar. An entomologist, Hollander holds a doctorate from the Uni­versity of Massachusetts, a master's degree from Okla­homa State University and a bachelor's degree from Iowa State University. He came to Notre Dame in 1983 as a post-doctoral fellow in the Department of Biological Sciences for research on the developing and reproductive physiology of mosquitoes. He maintained computer opera­tions in the insect biochemistry lab. -The Observer 


OF INTEREST 
Lectors for the JPW Mass will be Richard Shank, Sara Marley, Rachel Dougherty and David Bruner. 
-The Observer 
Keenan Revue Tickets will be distributed today, at 3 p.m. at Gate 10 JACC for Notre Dame students, and at 5 p.m. in the Haggar Hall Lobby for Saint Mary's students. 
-The Observer 
Catholic Faith Series begins on Sunday, Jan. 29 in Keenan Chapel, 7-8:30. Sunday lectures are repeated on Tuesday evenings. Speakers are Katherine Tillman, Sister Regina Coli, Father Eugene Gorski, Father Drew Chris­tiansen and Father Michael Himes. -The Observer 

Mandatory Urban Plunge meeting will be help Sunday evening at 7 p.m. in the Library auditorium for all students who experienced the Urban Plunge over Christmas break. You will be breaking up into small dis­cussion groups. Please arrive early to check in and find your group assignment. -The Observer 
CILA's Annual Weekend Workshop takes place today from 6 to 8:30p.m. and tomorrow 10 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Today's discussion will be "Call to Action for Justice and Peace" by Kathy Osberger, co-founder of the Urban Plunge and Program coordinator for the National Assembly of Religious Wo­men. Tomorrow's discussion will be "Values: Definition and Exploration" by Father Michael Himes, followed by a panel discussion with Notre Dame alumni Brian and Andrea Schappell and Michael Lee. -The Observer 
Neighborhood Study Help Program tutors chil­dren in South Bend at schools and neighborhood centers. Sign-ups will continue· today at lunch and dinner in the dining halls, and our organizational meeting is Sunday at 6 p.m. in the multi-purpose room of the CSC. All those who have signed up should attend. Those who have not signed up yet, more sign-ups will be taken on Sunday at the meeting. -The Observer 
Logan Center Council for the Retarded wel­comes everyone to a dance tonight from 7:30 to 10 p.m. Van pickups at Saint Mary's are at 6:40 and 7:10p.m. in front of Holy Cross Hall and at Notre Dame's Main Circle at 6:50 and 7:15. Also, this Saturday we're going snow inner tubing. Please note: Our recreation will start at 10 
a.m. Van pickups will be at 9:30 a.m. for Saint Mary's and 9:45 for Notre Dame. Questions call Karen 4950. -The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



All-nighters: fantastic fun for everyone, 
All-nighters. 

They're an essential part of any complete col­lege career. But, sad to say, some people have never experienced the joy of all-nighters, while others approach them with fear and loathing, wailing and gnashing their teeth at the thought of a drugged-up, sleepless night. 
This trepidation is totally unnecessary. With tne proper information and tools, the all-nighter can be a fun, enlightening and enriching expe­rience. To help the neophytes out there, I've prepared a little question-and-answer guide to the perfect all-nighter. 
Which night should I pull an all-nighter? 

Any night is a good night! Sleep is for the weak! Some of the best all-nighters are those that are totally unnecessary. 
Besides, you might be surprised to discover that all-nighters actually relieve stress. Here's how. If you're planning on getting a few hours of sleep, you'll probably freak out because of the time pressure. 
Once you decide to pull the all-nighter, however, vast vistas of time stretch out before you. If you're a professional procrastinator, it gives you a few more hours to blow off. Imagine the immense sense of satisfaction you get when you say, "Sure, it's 3 a.m. and I haven't started my paper on Existential Angst and the Possible Presidency of Dan Quayle, but that's OK I still have plenty of time." 
What tools do I need? 

The main one is caffeine. By the way, it's about time to clear up some misconceptions about caffeine. Caffeine does not make you ner­vous or shaky. Caffeine turns you into an invin­cible studying Superman, a throating jugger­naut. Caffeine is your friend. 
There are two favored methods of caffeine doping: coffee and Mountain Dew. If you need a really quick jolt, try mixing four or five teaspoons of instant coffee grounds in a cup of boiling water instead of one. This tastes pretty vile, so add lots of sugar. If you can't drink it, pretend it's some new mixed drink at an OC party, and that people will really respect you as a party animal if you manage to choke it down. 
What if I start falling asleep? 
First of all, don't take a nap. You know deep 

Tim O'Keefe 
Assistant News Editor 



down inside that you're not .going to get back up, no matter what you tell yourself--you're deceiving yourself. Even if you do wake up, you won't feel any better. Imagine having all of your internal juices pumped out and replaced by a gooey green paste. That is what you'll feel like when you wake up. 
Instead, drink a cup of coffee. If this doesn't work, drink another cup ... 
Why not just get your work done far enough in advance so that you don't have to stay up all night? 
Balderdash! You have the rest of your life to be responsible--why start now? You're in col­lege, a time to do really perverse things for no apparent reason. When you're in the middle of your next all-nighter and trying hard to keep from slipping from a merely zombie-like stupor into total catatonia, remember that one day, years from now, you'll look back on your all­nighters with wistful nostalgia .... 
Zzzzzz.... 


Design Editor ............... Laura stanton Design A,.utant.. . .... Janice O'Leary TJiPeaettera.... .. ........ Molly Schwartz ........................................... Dan Towers Nt11>a Editor..................... Tim O'Keefe CopJi Editor ..... Regis Coccia Sparta CopJi Editor .......... Theresa Kelly 
Viewpoint CopJI Editor ... Janice O'Leary Etc Editor....... ....... John Blasi Etc copv Editor ................. Mike Restle Etc Derigner. ....................... Tim Irvine TJII>iat ................................. Sue Barton ND Dall Editor ......... Jennifer Richards Pllotographer ... .............. Jennifer Ott 
ne QMenw (USPS 599 2...000) is published Monday throuah Friday aoept durina cum and vacati011 periods. ne OWener is published by the studmu of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoiJeae. Subscriptions may be purcbu­ed for S40 per year~ per tcmeSta') by writina ne ~.P.o. Bo" Q, Notre o-c. llldiula 46556. 
ne o..n. is a -ber or ne AM• di!W ...... All reproducti011 riahts are .--1. 

Friday, January 27, 1989 The Observer page 3 

Tower questioned about defense ties 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON --Senate committees, working Thursday to fill vacancies at President Bush's Cabinet table, examined one nominee's relationships to defense con­tractors, heard another defend Bush's "flexible freeze" budget plan and got sugges­tions from a third on how he will manage America's open spaces. 
As the process unfolded, former Republican Sen. John Tower of Texas told the Senate Armed Services Committee that the $763,777 he made as a defense consultant over the past three years will not influ­ence his actions if he is con­firmed as Bush's secretary of defense. 
Michael Boskin, selected to be Bush's chief economic ad­viser, told the Senate Banking Committee he believes spend­ing cuts can be made in defense 
and health care spending and specific "flexible freeze" proposals when he addresses a joint meeting of Congress on Feb 9. 


Former Republican Rep. Manuel Lujan told the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that he views the job of secretary of the interior as one of "stewardship" and will, if confirmed, try to enlist thousands of volunteers as bel­pers in the national park and fish and wildlife systems. 
The energy panel voted to en­dorse the Lujan nomination and sent it to the full Senate where a vote is expected next Wednesday. 
Tower, a former Armed Ser­vices Committee chairman, told that panel Congress should slow down the "revolving door" through which some top defense officials pass on the way to high-paying civilian jobs in the defense industry. 

Pentagon officials should be barred, Tower said, "from profiting unfairly, unethically, Dave Ureeland, Alan Silvidi, James Maurek, Brian and William Clark try out for the Keenan Revue. 
Frth~a~t~B~u~s~h=w;1~·ll~be~~~;w;it;h=~~~~~or~in~o~rd~i~na~t~e~ly~"=·=ii Geraghty, Matt Meese, Chris Barnabo, Paul Kane Tickets for the Revue go on sale today. 
Dine at the Water's 
13runch or Lunch from $.3.95 Early Dinners from $5.95 Prime Rib or Shrimp $6.95 
Colfax at the River -East Oanl~ Reservations Welcome: 2.34-4477 
·~  ·.  ·  ··  ····.  ··.  TRETORN  •  
t  .  PRESENTS  t  
i  AMY  i  



I 'RANTI 
: MICHAEL W. SMITH: t GARY CHAPMAN t : lead me on tour:
. --. 
+ Fl • 
• 00~ • 
FEB.21 + 
7:30PM • 
JOYCE Ace• 
AT NOTRE DAME : 
------~~======:
Tickets available at Joyce ACC Box Office and + 
All Ticketmaster Locations including: L.S. Ayers 
at U.P. and Scottsdale Malls, Nightwinds in +.·.· North Village and Niles, Mi., Supersounds at t ;::: Concord Mall in Elkhart, Carson's in Michigan + 
City and Music Magic in Benton Harbor or · · 
Charge by Phone with Visa/MasterCard; +:::: 
800 I 284-3030 t ::~~ 


Bush to travel to China soon 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON --President Bush, who served as envoy to China during the rule of Mao Tse-Tung, will spend two days in Beijing next month after visiting Japan and may extend his travels to other countries, the White House said Thursday. 
There was speculation South Korea also would be on his itinerary. 

"I don't have full dates of the trip yet in terms of starting and ending, but it's clearly in an ex­panding mode here," said White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater. 
On his first overseas trip, Bush will travel to Japan for the Feb. 24 funeral of Emperor Hirohito. He will spend Feb. 25­
Available 

for 89-90 School Year Houses For Rent 
Inexpensive, safe, & close to campus 
702 St. LOUIS St. For more information call 733 .. Laura
734 ,. 801 .. 289-6621 919 South Bend Avo. 
\1 

CIIIEIE·AIIEIICAIIIESTAUUIT , AultenCk: ~and HuMn Tast.e ' lledCIUI'GDf ~D 7 days
t Mon.-Thura.ll:30 am~ 10 pm. Fri-Sat.ll:30 am to 11 pm only $4 95 Sun. &Holidcrvall:30 am to 10 pm(Regul~r $7 25) tLunches starting at_----$3.45 
. . tDinn tartin at $4 95
Fned <:>old Honey Chickoo ers S g . ------• with th1s coupon BsnqueUtooms svstlable for up to 200 until Feb. 28,1989 130 Dixie Hwy.• Roaelcmcl (aext to Randall'• blft) 
26 in China on a working visit, which traditionally has less pomp and ceremony than a full­blown state visit. 
Fitzwater left open the pos­sibility Bush would confer in Tokyo with other foreign leaders. 
"Obviously when a president goes to these kinds of events there are opportunities for bilateral meetings and obvi­ously there are a lot of countries who would like to have them, but we have to con­sider the time constraints in­volved in moving around --in this case moving on to China and protocol restraints associ­ated with the funeral," 
Best Taste!  
,  . e'eest pnc .  
'  Lunch special only $3.45  

t Includes: ' 1. Daily soup ' 
2
' 3· FE~gdRRo!l
' . ne ICe
' 4. One Entree ' 
272-7376 
·=:;=:=:=:=Is:::::f:f:fE:R:E-:::A:::::c::P:A:::IN::::::v:O::[ffi::::::i=:(Jfi:JR:E:?:':':-~ll 
~ 
1 
~ 



::. !:ij~:::~~=~:=:~:11.· ~·· 
on the campus of NOTRE DAME 
1:~ 

SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNT 
EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS 136 HAYES-HEALY 
A • .·.· PHONE 239-5285
••••••••••••••••••• ::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::::::::::::::::: 

-
~ ~­
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------... 
page4 
.··-~ AP Photo
Black flag or white? 
A Soviet soldier folds the Soviet flag at a Kabul airbase earlier this week as the Soviet military prepare for their final withdrawal from Afghanistan. The withdrawal went awry Friday as hundreds of civilians were killed when Soviet forces shelled the Salang Tunnel and several villages. Story page 1. 
Two British hostages may soon be released 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon --Radio and press reports Thursday said the release of two British hostages might be imminent, and British Ambassador Allan Ramsay crossed into Moslem West Beirut. 
After Ramsay's return to the British Embassy, in the Chris­tian sector of the divided capi­tal, an embassy official said, "We have no additional infor­mation." 
Asked whether a hostage release was expected, he said, "All I can tell you is that we're not on alert.'' The official spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Earlier, when asked by tele­phone if his trip was linked to the press reports, Ramsay said from the British consular office in the Moslem sector: "I often come to west Beirut and there's nothing significant in my cur­rent visit." 
An embassy spokesman had said the purpose of Ramsay's 
journey  was to check  the  
reports.  
1988-89  

V~Vr=()VMI~(; 
AVT§ 
§~l?l~§ 
THE LARK -­


QUARTET 
"one of the brightest string ensembles on the international horizon" 
Fri., Jan. 27, 8 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: $7.50, $6.50, $5.50 Reservations: 219/284-4626 
Visa, MasterCard accepted 
...___~%~---... nt Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
The British Embassy and Ramsay's residence are in east Beirut. Most hostages are believed held in west Beirut's Shiite Moslem slums. 
The reports said kidnapped British journalist John McCarthy and teacher Brian Keenan, who has Irish and British citizenship, could be freed within days. 
Patrick McCabe, who is Ireland's ambassador to Lebanon but is based in lraa. 
said he would fly to Beirut im­
mediately to investigate. 
McCarthy and Keenan are among 15 foreigners missing in Lebanon, who include two more Britons and nine Americans. Held longest is Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent of The As­
sociated Press, who was ab­
ducted March 16, 1985. 


NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP 
PROGRAM 


ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING SUNDAY, JANUARY 29 6:00PM IN THE CSC MULTIPURPOSE ROOM 
·Si 
in North C& D Line and South Dit1in HaUs 

• 

The Observer Friday, January 27, 1989 
Sakharov: Gorbachev will fall 
Associated Press 
PARIS --Soviet President 
Mikhail Gorbachev probably 
will be ousted because he has 
failed to seek popular support 
in direct elections, Andrei Sak­
harov and his wife were quoted 
as saying in an interview pub­
lished Thursday. 
"The conservatives will 
overthow Gorbachev or at least 
impose their views on him," 
the conservative French daily 
Le Figaro quoted Sakharov, 
the dean of the Soviet human 
rights movement, as saying. 
Le Figaro said the six-hour interview with Sakharov and his wife, Yelena Bonner, also a prominent rights activist, was conducted over three consecu­tive evenings at their Moscow home. 
............................................................... 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday Today is CHRIS D.'s birthday. Call him up and wish him a happy one. By the 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
way, CHRIS, we do expect to see you

11 
mashing on the Mariott steps tonight. II LaFortune. 
THE MINI MITES 
AND 

NOTRE DAME HOCKEY vs 
CANISIUS January 27 & 28 at 7:30 PM Featuring: The Mini-Mites during first period intermission 
on both nights 

N.D.--Mateo's Mug Night Saturday 
One free mug to first 1000 spectators 
ltl·§~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~§~~ 
The newspaper quoted Bon­ner as saying: "The only real defense for a chief of state is direct election. Why is Gorbac­hev afraid? We would elect him. Our country has no other leader. 
"I think he will be over­thrown soon," she was quoted as saying. "I would not bet 10 rubles on Gorbachev." 
Bonner said that if Gorbac­hev is ousted, "so will (be) all those who believed in perestroika," his program to restructure Soviet society and its economy, the paper re­ported. 
Sakharov, who won theNobel Peace Prize in 1975, said the West must continue to pressure the Soviet Union on rights is­sues, at least until an interna­tional human rights conference that is scheduled in Moscow in 1991. 
He said the meeting, which initially was opposed by Brit­ain and the United States, "should only take place if the (human rights) situation in the Soviet Union is truly satisfac­tory." 
Le Figaro quoted Sakharov as saying that perestroika was "absolutely necessary. There is no other solution. This doesn't mean that you have to support Gorbachev without reservation. To associate perestroika 100 percent with his name would not be fair. 
"Gorbachev could come un­der pressure. He could have other ideas," Sakharov was quoted as saying. 




SOPHOMORES AND JUNIORS 



MARKETING MANAGEMENT POSITION 
GAIN VALUABLE BUSINESS EXPERIENCE MAKE $3,000 TO $4,000 PART-·TIME 
Campus Marketing Associates (CMA) will visit the University of Notre Dame 
campus on Thursday, February 2 to interview students for a SPRING 
SEMESTER position in marketing management. CMA has developed a unique 
advertising concept that received unanimously favorable responses in its initial 
test markets. 
The ideal candidate will be a personable, well-organized, and highly-committed individual who has a genuine interest in marketing, manag.ement, or entrepreneurship. Responsibilities will include developing a marketing plan, making sales presentations, developing advertising strategies, managing account relationships, and reporting to a regional marketing director. Associates will need their own transportation. The company produces student directories and campus related advertising products. 
For more information, please see our job description and sign up for an interview in the Career and Placement Services office in the Hesburgh Library. 

INTERVIEWS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 14 APPLICANTS TO SIGN-UP ON THE SCHEDULE. 
Friday, January 27, 1989 
The Observer 






Borelli appointed to new post 
By JIM LANG groups which have previously 
News Staff been neglected," such as 
minorities, women, and the dis­
Mario Borelli, associate pro­abled. 
fessor of mathematics at Notre The search for funding, 
Dame, was recently appointed however, will not just be lim­
to the newly created position of ited to minority groups, Borelli 
Director of Special Instruc­said. 
tional Projects and Activities 
by Provost Timothy O'Meara. Others which will benefit 
"The role," Borelli said, from the new director's efforts 
"entails seeking sources of out-are gifted and talented high 
side funding for instructional school students, students 
activities which are aimed at working towards teacher cer­
improving the situation for tification, and teachers con­
~·•++++++++++++++++ 
: MEMORY LANE : 
+ BASEBALL CARD :
! !~£~2.M!S~£>£>~Jlf2!.. : 
t 2810 MISHAWAKA AVENUE : 
: SOUTH BEND,INDIANA 46615 : • 234-4446
•
:NEW COMICS 
: EVERY
•
:THURSDAY 
:oPEN 7 DAY-··­
+ •
! -Discount on all new books-' 
tinuing their education,he said. 
Borelli said that he would seek funding from federal and state agencies as well as private endowments and foundations, and even private firms. 
Prior to this appointment, O'Meara said, individual teachers, groups, or students were forced to seek and apply for funding on their own. 
Borelli was chosen for the role because of his "excellent track record" in seeking fun­ding for the math department, said O'Meara. 
Because of the broad and somewhat ambiguous duties of the new position, Borelli is of­ficially on leave of absence from the university for a se­mester, and will teach only half of his regular load for the next three years. 
"I hope to be able to do this work and still do at least a min­imal amount of teaching," he said. 

Happy 20th Birthday Monchichi. 
Oh, aren't you just ... so cute & cuddly. 
Love, All your friends. 

Mac 
continued from page 1 
Mac Lab," said Scott Cowdrey, director of user services. 
"There is also a possibility of making the library lab into a 24-hour computing center, but there are security problems and costs to consider," Cowdrey said. "The plan is to keep looking for new locations to meet the students' growing needs." 
Join The Observer 
The Observer Friday, January 27, 1989
pageS 
Ringo will become latest American children's TV Starr 
Associa~ Press pleted a cross-country promo­Starr is already a children's "I've always enjoyed on the television in another NEW YORK-The 8-year-old tional tour for "Shining Time star in England where he is children," Starr said. His own room. 
girl offers up a piece of paper Station," which has gotten heard but not seen as the nar­three children are grown and and a pen and pleads, "Could more than the usual dollop of rator on the popular tot-appeal he has a 3-year-old "I heard this voice being in­you just write one more?" publicity due even the most "Thomas the Tank Engine and granddaughter, Tatia. terviewed, and I thought, that's 
"You just want to be a big charming of children's pro­Friends," a storybook segment the voice of Thomas' storytel­
cheese in school, don't ya?" grams --which "Shining Time included in "Shining Time Sta-"The songs in the old days, I ler," she said. 
says Ringo Starr, cigarette Station" is--thanks to the pres­tion." , sort of went to the kiddie She calls the show 
dangling from his mouth, as he ence of the former Beatie in the "I'm savaged by 5-year­crowd, so it was sort of a nat­"storybook television --televi­
cheerfully signs another auto­cast. olds," he says, laughing. ural thing, you know," he said. sion programming that has 
graph. "We all know it's the truth. In the American show, Starr "But to be magic and little, it sort of qualities more akin to 
The girl, Nicole Leach, is no It's a lot of easier if I'm on the plays Mr. Conductor, a tiny was fabulous." those you'd find in children's
H 
n pint-size autograph hound, but tour, too, because people want special-effects figure who lives literature." one of Starr's co-stars on "Shin­to come and ask what you've in the walls of the train station, Britt Allcroft, co-creator and ing Time Station," a new PBS been doin' for the last 100 popping up occasionally to en­producer of the show with Rick Starr said he "can't wait" to children's series that years. But somewhere in there tertain the children and help Siggelkow, said she talked be as big a kiddie star in this premieres Saturday. they mention the show," said teach the simple lessons aimed Starr into narrating "Thomas country as he is in England. Starr, the rest of the cast and Starr, chatting in a suite over­at the program's target audi­the Tank Engine and Friends" Mter all, his career has not ex­the producers had just com-looking Central Park. ence, 4-to 7-year-olds. in England after hearing him actly been booming. Four injured in shooting at Washington school 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON --A gunman School system spokesman opened fire on a crowd of stu­Charles Seigel said two "out­dents outside a District of Co­siders" entered the school lumbia high school Thursday, about noon and were involved wounding four, police said. The in a "verbal altercation" with incident apparently erupted students. because of a dispute earlier in The students agreed to a fight the day. after school, Seigel said, and 
One witness said the man were on their way to the site "knew where he wanted to when the shootings occurred. shoot, and then he just started When asked if any of the vic­shooting at random." Police tims knew the assailants, Gales said the assailant seemed to said, "I think some of the vic­have targeted the students in­tims know who was involved." volved. The shootings at Wilson High 
There were no immediate ar­School in affluent northwest rests, but authorities were said Washington occurred about to be searching for three men. 2:30 p.m., moments after the 
The shooting "seemed to be students were dismissed for the the result of an altercation that day. None of the injuries was· 
had taken place earlier in the thought to be life-threatening, day," said Capt. Robert Gales although police said at least 
Freshmen Amy Lutz, center, and Ann Crawford prac­High Mass every Sunday morning at 10:00. of the District of Columbia one of the students was 
continued from page 1 
said, detected the virus in only one. 
A report on the study will be published Friday in the jour­nal, Science. 
Both HTLV-I and the human immunodeficiency virus <HIV) 






"DUNK ME" 
that causes AIDS, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, are retroviruses. Reddy said both of the viruses also appear TONITE to infect immune cells in the blood. 
"Even though these two AT THE LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
viruses are not causing the same disease, their basic mechanisms of infection are very, very similar. Something 
GATE 6 AT THE JACC 
that works for HIV should also work for HTLV-1," Reddy said. Multiple sclerosis is a dis­ease that attacks the brain and 
other parts of the central ner­TANK SCHEDULE 
vous system. It causes damage 
by destroying a tissue called 
myelin that covers the nerves. 9:00 PM TONY RICE -N.D. QB
There are about 250,000 MS 
9:30PM GEORGE WILLIAMS-HE DARES YOU
patients in the United States. The disease strikes most fre­
10:00 PM PAT COOKE-REMEMBER ... 
quently between the ages of 20 
and 40. In about a third of the 10:30 PM MICHELLE PARAISO-N.D. CHEERLEADER 
patients, the disease is very 
11:00 PM STEPHANIE HAYASHI-N.D. CHEERLEADER 
mild but for others, MS can 
caus~ great disability and_crip­11:30 AM CAPTAIN GEORGE DEWHIRST-UNARMED 
pling. Currently, there ts no 12:00 AM ­
MARTY STRASEN YOU'Ll READ ABOUT IT 
cure, though the dis~ as~ fre­
quently goes into remtsston. 12:30 AM BRIAN O'GARA -GET A PHOTOGRAPHER Reddy and his associates ~t 
1:00AM FRANK STAMS -I WILL REMEMBER
Wistar proved that there 1s HTLV-I in the blood cells of 1:30 AM THE LEPRECHAUN -RAY LOPEZ multiple sclerosis patients _by performing extremely prectse assays for the genetic pattern 
of the virus. 
As a control, similar assays were performed on blood samples from 20 healthy per­sons, 10 from Sweden and 10 in 
Philadelphia. 


Friday, January 27, 1989 
The Observer 

Furry jury sniffs at Soviet sausage 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW --Angry meat­packers are suing a newspaper for an article that said their sausage was so bad even cats can't stomach it, but editors said they turned to a furry, four-legged jury that proved their point. 
"Twenty-four sausage ex­perts don't eat it at all; five only eat high quality sausage or out of extreme hunger. Only one, the 2-month-old kitten Mura, you can say actually sits down to the sausage," the weekly Literaturnaya Gazeta said in announcing the feline findings. 
The dispute started with the literary weekly's story on June 15 titled "The Cat Doesn't Know ... " and was brought up recently in the Dzerzhinsky regional people's court. 
In a complaint signed by Yuri Luzhkov, chairman of the Mos­cow agroindustrial complex, officials demanded a retrac­tion of the newspaper's report that producers were breaking the law by putting protein ad­ditives in the sausage, known in Russian as "kolbasa." 
Because of a shortage of meat in many Soviet stores, fin­ding good quality sausage has become a fixation for many people. Acartoon in an October edition of the satire magazine 
ATTENTION MUSIC LOVERS 
AUDITIO~·lS for SMC-ND WIND ENSEMBLE 
WOO OWl NOS, BRASS and PERCUSSION 
Krokodil showed a line of shop­pers standing outside a theater, not to buy tickets but to buy the sausage for sale in the theater's buffet. 
The case also shows that the 
more aggressive style of 
reporting by the Soviet press 
under President Mikhail Gor­
bachev's encouragement of 
greater openness is likely to get 
it into occasional legal trouble. 
The Tass news agency said this 
week a court had dismissed a 
lawsuit against a film producer 
by a biochemical plant near 
Leningrad that objected to his 
documentary about pollution. 
Literaturnaya Gazeta re­
ported about its dispute with 
the sausage manufacturers in 
an article in this week's edition 
titled, "May the Cats Judge 
Us." It gave no indication that 
the case had gone any further 
than the initial complaint. 
It said that using the permis­sion of state quality control of­ficials to add protein additives, the factories were grinding up the skin and bones of cattle and throwing them into the sausage. 


Become 
ARax 
Preferred 
Customer 
PRESENT YOUR NDJ'ST MARY'S 
I.D. TO OUR CASHIER AND RECEIVE A TEN PERCENT DISCOUNT 
us 33 NORTH STORE ONLY OFFER ENDS 5'3(}-89 
~ 

......" ....................... _ ..............,_........-...................IC'.......................... 

E 
c 


A
u 
L

R 
L

0 


I 
; I
. ) 
.:~·· '· 
'-~ 
···-::·:···~......-·. 
~_......n.,,•' 

CHICAGO -LONDON
$29800 Ro~nd 
Tr1p 
For Your Winter Or Spring Trip To Europe, Your Europe Travel Specialists 
SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
525 North Michigan Street South Bend, IN 46601 
Tel: 219-232-7995 
Travel permitted to London Sun.-Wed. from London Mon.-Thurs. All travel must be completed by March 15,1989 

The Observer I Jennifer 011

Jukebox hero? 
Junior Chris Govekar sits in the LaFortune Student Center, trying to 
decide what song to select. 
• Campus View Five Points St. Louis & Corby• Main Circle Library Circle 
•
. 
WEEKEND WHEELS 
Rides Again Starting Tonight 
12:35  1:25  2:15  3:05  
12:50  1:40  2:30  3:20  
1:00  1:50  2:40  3:30  
1:10  2:00  2:50  3:40  
1:15  2:05  2:55  3:45  

Every Friday and Saturday Night! Have a good time... Leave your keys Behind! 
Griffin 
continued from page 12 
stand how beautiful he was as an athlete, leaving them in the springtime of his life when he, and they, were Number One, in their own eyes, and in the eyes of the world. 
The athlete dying young upstaged everything and everyone, including President Reagan; and he's on his way to becoming, in the metamor­phosis of time, larger than life. How long will it be before those players begin to reverence Bob as a hero who blessed them with Christ-like insights by dying young and almost--so it may seem-­sacrificially? 
Maybe the soul-filled pres­ence of so many blacks at Mass made me imaginative. I wouldn't want to canonize Bob without due process. I did feel I was face-to-face with the black Christ at that memorial service. His eye was on the fallen athlete, and all through the Mass, I'm sure He was watching me as 
• 
3:55 
•
: 

I ~-~ -~ ------------~------~--~---------------------------........ \; " 'I 
I 
The Observer Friday, January 27, 1989
page 8
'' 
~-~:?'_~ ~:u::: \. ~> t~~ flY'"·~\_~~ >-·----Curler craze
Bundy gives bodies' 
•"-J_ "'\' ~' J:.' f' ~ :. ~ ,\.,
locations on tape \,:· :· '~-~ -~--~..,:-l\ ;,~-;.· ·'i' shakes up 
~;.:... ~.; :;;s .: -~--~! _:~---;-·.: ;'-~--~· ,-~_, • -~ North Dakota
Associated Press 1975," Bundy said. "And that's as close as I can 
~ .. ~ J ·· -:• ~' } ·· ··, .· · "'<i politicians
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. --get it ... with the map and with Serial killer Ted Bundy, in a what we have here," said 

~ .~ ~ ~ · ~ ;. 1~ --'~ Associated Press
tape recording made 45 Bundy, who said he did not minutes before his execution know the name of his victim. BISMARCK, N.D.--Women and released by Florida's Bundy had been suspected in whose beauty salons have been governor on Thursday, dis-the death of Susan Curtis, 15, barred from using traditional closed where he left the bodies who was attending a youth con­brush curlers are making a of two victims in Colorado and ference at Brigham Young Uni­hair-raising noise in the state Utah. versity when she disappeared Legislature, which is consider­
Bundy's final confession in June 1975, according to The ing a bill to lift the ban. came in a five-minute con-Salt Lake Tribune. "This was the one thing we versation with Florida State found during our campaign Prison Warden Thomas Barton Bundy, 42, also directed an­that people were really op­
i at 6:15a.m. Tuesday, Jon Peck, other confession to Colorado posed to," said Rep. Wilbur

; \ 
,•' spokesman for Gov. Bob Mar­detectives about the killing of Vander Vorst. '' tinez, told The Associated Oliverson. The state Board of Cosmetol­
i 
! Press. "I believe the date was in ogy issued its edict banning 
Although he didn't know the April 1975," Bundy said. "The brush curlers last July. The identity of his Utah victim, young woman's body would board contended the curlers, Bundy said he believed the have been placed in the 

which are rather like little Colorado victim was Denise Colorado River five miles west round hairbrushes without 
Oliverson, 24, last seen riding of Grand Junction. It was not handles, are unsanitary be­her bicycle in April 1975 near buried." cause hair tends to stick in the her Grand Junction home. "That's all the ones that I can · bristles. 
Using a map, Bundy gave di­help you with," Bundy said. But many women prefer rections to the sites where he "The ones that I know about. them. left his victims. His memory of No missing ones outstanding Rep. Kathi Gilmore said the 
the Utah victim was detailed, that we haven't talked about." board should have sanctioned telling investigators to look for beauty parlors whose brush .li a dirt road between Price and Barton then continued with rollers were found to have 11 '·'I Green River, Utah. more queries from inves­stray hairs on them, rather .,il "About 200 yards in on the tigators in several other areas than banning a vital tool of the dirt road . . . and to the left, where Bundy was suspected in Clean up or else AP Photo trade. Gilmore, who is sponsor­

. I 
maybe 50 yards, there's the killing young women. ing legislation to lift the
Cleaners sweep the road while tanks approach the saluting base Friday 
remains of a young woman who "Ted, I have some inquiries prohibition, testified at a state 
on Republic Day in New Delhi, India. The two hour parade was reviewed
II disappeared from Brigham from Illinois and New Jersey," House committee hearing Wed-
by dignitaries and the public.

Young University in June of said Barton. nesday. 
Afghan 
continued from page 1 
A dispatch from Kabul received by one Western em­bassy quoted reports of wit­nesses seeing "Soviet tanks rol­ling over dead bodies of victims" along the highway, which runs for 250 miles be­tween Kabul and the Soviet bor­der. 

It said the report of all houses being destroyed came from three separate sources, includ­ing a diplomat who defends the Afghan government. 
Afghan media and military officers had reported 377 guer­rillas were killed Tuesday along the Salang Highway, where the insurgents have at­tacked many food and fuel con­voys trying to reach Kabul. 
'I 
·r Heavy snows also have 

'l; blocked parts of the road, and Kabul has suffered severe food and fuel shortages as the end of the Soviet military withdrawal approaches. 


OPEN HOUSE 
Monday Jan.30, 1989 7-9 pm UNIVERSITY CLUB 
Learn about one of America's Largest Paper 
Producers 

Explore Career Opportunities with recent Notre Dame 
graduates. 

NEED NOT BE ON INTERVIEW SCHEDULE TO ATTEND 
Friday Night: 

Dance to music played by great campus DJs-­Don't for et to use the request line to ensure that you hear your favorites! Begins at 10:00. Saturday Night: Beginning at 9:30 
-Doors open 9:00
Don't miss: 

N[}SMC I.D. RequiredLONDON U.S.A. Great food and drink at Ted's Hideaway! 
***playing mus c from Springsteen to INXS••• 
Viewpoint
Friday, January 27, 1989 page 9 
A Valuable Summer Experience 
For most people, summer vacation brings to mind the beach, baseball games, and a boring job at the mall. Last summer, however, my mind was on soup kitchens, underprivileged pre­schoolers and migrant worker families. I had never even considered visiting Grand Rapids, Michigan, but a week after I returned home from school, I found myself going off to this unknown city to spend two months of my break on a Summer Service Project. 
Audrey George 
guest column 
My project turned out to be a little different from the norm. Most students remain at one site for the entire eight weeks. My project was more like the extended dance mix version of an Ur­ban Plunge, however, since it involved a number of different sites. My project sites included a Head Start program, a soup kitchen, migrant worker camps, and a public elementary school and church which both worked to meet the needs of the Hispanic and migrant families living in Grand Rapids. 
I spent two or three weeks at each of the sites, working either full or over­lapping half days at each. My tasks were as varied as my project sites. I worked as a teacher aide at Head Start, helped older Hispanic children with their English at the elementary school, and taught a Bible School class for the church. I also visited the different mi­grant camps surrounding the city and worked as a server and kitchen worker at the soup kitchen. 
As one can probably imagine, I had many different experiences and learned so many different things throughout the course of my eight week project. I was able to see how various service programs were run and learn what made them work. Further, by in­teracting with both the helpers and the helped in the different programs, I was able to learn the various reasons the workers were participating in these service programs and to see just what those being served got of out the pro­grams as well. 
The most important lesson that I learned, though, was taught to me by the children I worked with at Head Start. These were children who just wanted to know that they were loved. Many of them did not receive much in­dividual attention at home, and it was amazing to see how much just a little extra outside interest in their lives really meant to them. Nathan, for ex­ample, usually just neded a hug and a smile to keep him going. Jermaine and Ebony lived for the chance to tell some­one about the newest excitement in their lives, and Ryan just wanted to know that he was doing a good job. These little perks may not seem as if they would be all that effective or im­portant with anyone other than a small child, but as I was to find out, this is far from the truth. 

I was going through one of those days. Disaster after disaster seemed to be occurring--everything from two of the boys getting into a fist fight to one of the girls wetting her pants in the middle of a large group. I was feeling in­credibly overwhelmed and upset over all that was happening until I looked up and saw Christopher, a boy I had grown very close to, with a big, warm smile on his face. As simple and incon­sequential as it may seem, that smile changed my entire attitude. It reminded me, first of all, that someone really cared about me and would be there for support, and, secondly, that the rest of these kids were counting on me to be there for them and to help perk up their day. 
I cannot explain in words the effect that one little boy with a big heart had on me, but the thought of him still puts a huge smile on my face, and I know that I will never forget him or the lesson I learned from him. Though our society often seems overwhelming and uncon­querable, Chris and the rest of the chidren taught me that I cannot let myself get discouraged because every little bit really does count. 
If you are looking for a different way to spend part of your summer vacation, consider doing your own Summer Ser­vice Project. Applications are avail­able at the Center for Social Concerns and are due Feb. 1. Feel free to call the Center if you have any questions. 
Audrey George is a junior majoring in psychology. 
P.O. Box Q 

Court to review abortion issue 
Dear Editor: 
America has the opportunity to take a big step toward affirming the belief that human life is sacred. The United States Supreme Court has agreed to hear Webster v. Reproductive Health Services. With this case the court can set aside Roe v. Wade. 
Life begins at conception when the male sperm fertilizes the female ovum. Two and a half weeks after conception, the child's heart begins to beat. Bet­weeen six and eight weeks after con­ception, the child's organs are fully formed. Ten weeks after conception, the child feels pain. 
Since 1973, when abortion on demand was decriminalized in the United States, more than 23 million babies have been killed in hospitals and abor­tion clinics; that is, one abortion every 21 seconds. These babies are innocent and defenseless. 
Unborn babies are human beings. A society that denies them their right to 
Doonesbury 
NIC£, 8(J()p5tt, VtRY NIC£/ BUT JU5T /?£­LAX A !JTTU3, OIG4Y,
j HONef2 \ 
life cannot call itself civilized. 
With Webster v. Reproductive Health 
Services, the Supreme Court has the 
opportunity to reconsider its decision 
in Roe v. Wade. According to our legal 
system, the Court decides what is cor­
rect and what is incorrect. But no mat­
ter what the Court decides, we all have 
to account for our behavior before the 
tribunal of God. 
Please write to the justices of the Su­
preme Court, your congressional rep­
resentatives, and your state legislators 
to encourage the overturning of Roe v. 
Wade. 
Off-Campus 
Jan. 25, 1989 
Workshop promotes social awareness 
Dear Editor: 
During the week of Jan. 6, we were among the 400 plus Notre Dame stu­dents who had the opportunity to devote 48 hours to cities across the country. Miami and New York were the sites we visited. Through the Urban Plunge we were brought face to face with the so­cial conditions prevalent in metropolitan areas, from the refugees in Krome Detention Center, Miami, to the homeless in the Bowery of Manhat­tan. We have become more aware of poverty and injustice; but now back at Notre Dame, many questions arise. How can we coordinate our experiences with the life we lead at this University? What are our opportunities for action? 

As one way to further pursue these questions, we would like to recommend the workshop "Values in Action" being held at the Center for Social Concerns this weekend, sponsored by the Com­munity for the Lay Apostulate (CILA). On Friday night from 6 to 8:30 p.m., the co-founder of Urban Plunge, Kathy 
Osberger, will be speaking. She will share her experiences working in Chile and Peru, and reflect with us on the importance of putting our values into action. On Saturday, Jan. 28, Father Mi­chael Himes will be speaking at 10 a.m. about defining and exploring values, followed by lunch and a panel discus­sion including several Notre Dame graduates. If you're seriously consid­ering how you should be living your values, this workshop will have a lot to offer you. In particular, if the Urban Plunge has given you more than 48 hours worth of experience to think about, please join us at the esc this weekend. Katie Clark Andrea Reilly Howard Hall Jan. 25, 1989 

Editorial Board Operations Board
-Ih_-e O_:bse_-_~~or__ 
--&.~•=-~ -----­
P_Q. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Ed1tor-m-Ch1el Chns Murphy Busmess Manager John O•nder 
Managmg Ed1tor Chns Donnelly Advert1smg Des1gn Manager Molly K1llen News Ed1tor Reg1s Cocc1a Advert1smg Manager L1nda Goldschmidt 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students· of the Un~vers1ty of News Ed1tor Mark Mclaughlin Product10r1 Manager Bernadene Sh1ns Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pollc1es of V1ewpomt Ed1t01 ..._Dave Bruner Systems Manager Mark R1dgeway the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther 1nslltullon The news IS reported as accurately and ob1ect1vely as Sports Ed1tar Marty Strasen Controller Todd Hardiman poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n~on of the ma1onty of the Ed1tonal Board Accent Ed1tor Beth Healy Graph1c Arts Manager Marga Bruns Commentanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the" authors Column Samt Mary's Ed1tor Sandy Cenmele space IS ava1lable to all members of the community and the free e•press1on of vary1ng Photo Ed1tor MIChael Moran op1n~ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Founded November 3,1966 
.. 
\1:i 
f 
li 
!!,
,__ 
'" 
·' t 
I 
,. 
'.
'··
!,; 'I'\'
. 
!' 
l j 
' 
i: 



FRIDAY 
Movies: "The Terminator" Eng. Audit. 8 and 10 p.m. "Colors" Annenburg Audit. 7:30 and 9:45 
"Ten Little Indians" by the St. Ed's Hall Players in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. Admission $2. 
Music: The Lark String Quartet in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 p.m. Tickets are $7.50, $6.50, $5.50 at the O'Laughlin Box Office. 
Late Night Olympics at the JACC: 9 p.m. Basketball, Water Lacrosse, Nerf Football, lnnertube Water polo, Raquetbaii--Singles, Dunk Tank--Tony Rice, indoor soccer. 10 p.m. Whiffle ball, volleyball. 
10:30 Open skating, table tennis, obstacle course relay, arm wrestling. 11 broom ball. For specific game times at the NVA office at 239-6100. 
SATURDAY 
Movies: "The Untouchables" in the Eng. Auditorium at 8 and 10. 
Music: London USA at Theodore's at 9 p.m. 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 


1n 
1 
"Anxiety and 

MICHELLE McNAMARA accent writer 
T
as one by or he St. Edward's mysteriously
Hall Players per­
the St. form "Ten Little with an eerie chj 
Indians" with the
Edward's same suspense as an eerie childhood rhyme author Agatha Christie about ten little Indians that originally intended in her lies above the mantel in the 
book "And Then There Were living room. None." But in addition to As the play advances we mere mystery, as the book learn more about the charac­
Hall Pia yers 
present 
and such spinoff movies as ters' questionable pasts and "Happy Birthday To Me" and their reasons for being sum­"April Fool's Day" contained, moned to the remote island. the play adds a successful Initially each vehemently 
Agatha 
comic twist. denies having committed Ten guests gather on an is­murder, but slowly their true land home off England after stories emerge. Between ac­
Christie's 
individually receiving a mys­cusations and nervous out­terious invitation for a bursts, the number of guests weekend holiday. Soon the decreases until those who guests discover their host is remain are afraid to leave 
TEN 
absent, and except for an each other:s company. ominous voice accusing each The one room set of "Ten of murder, they are alone Little Indians" was perfect
LITTLE 
without a boat on the island. for the paranoid fright Anxiety and terror increase generated by the plot. Despite as one by one the guests mys­strange lighting techniques in 
teriously die in accord with a few scenes, the decision to
INDIANS 



• 

~rev~~W. 
Mendelssohn and Mozart: the song of the Lark 
JANICE O'LEARY perhaps responsible for their accent writer 
entrance into the classical 
music world in 1985. Originat­
S 
tring four fantastic ing from MinneapoliS'S!. 
female musicians Paul, the quartet relocated to 
together with a New York City where they 
contemporary flair made their debut after win­all graduates of Juilliard to be e:l! 
and the result is ning the Self Magazine 1986 where the quartet worked as will be i the Lark String Quartet. "Fresh Start" contest. Since teaching assistants for a Quartet 
The Lark will be perform­then the youthful quartet has while, and Ms. Kruger is a "The D ing at Saint Mary's College fiddled, plucked and made Manhattan School of Music "Fundv this evening, at 8 p.m. in melodious music throughout alumna. and Me1 O'Laughlin auditorium. This Western Europe and was a Lark's repetoire is varied A Min01 dynamic quartet consists of top prize winner in the 1986 and interesting. They include Tickel four females: Robin Mayforth Banff International String pieces by traditional classical O'Laugland Eva Gruesser on violins, Quartet Competition. composers such as Beetho­at $7.50, Anna Kruger on viola and ven, Mozart, and Men­Phone o Laura Sewell on the cello. The women are m their mid delssohn, and they often have tercard The women bring a lively and to late twenties and are one music written specifically for number upbeat style to traditional of the more promising all­them by more contemporary (219) 2& classical music. female quartets of their age composers such as Libby Lar­be a be< 
The energy and imagination group. Ms. Mayforth, Ms. son. so makE in the group's performance is Gruesser and Ms. Sewell are The performance promises the mus 

Friday, January 27, 1989 

e 

•
1ans 
·and terror increase by one the guests )Usly die in accord ·ie childhood rhyme." 
•me eliminate light at the scariest s that moment of the play was un­in the qestionablly sucessful. In the 
past the play has been per­:s we formed with the lights on charac­during the scene, and it ts and definitely did not have the 1 sum­same effect.
~land. 
The character of William The Obeerver 1 Jennifer Ott 
In this scene, cast
lltly Blore, played by sophomore 
members Brennan
ted Tom Nientimp, provides most senior Duane DiFranco cer­lunatic at hand, and those 
Harvath (top left), 
eir true of the humorous touches. An tainly shone as an experi­who relied on Christie's 
Tim Flood, Jason 
!en ac-obnoxious and boisterous enced and talented actor. original ending were equally 
Winslade, Duane
out­policeman, Blore races Playing Sir Lawrence as surprised due to a change 
DIFranco, and Robin
guests around as the rest of the Wargrave with an air of dig­in the script. As a storm 
Maher discuss the 
.vho guests contemplate the end of nity and conceit, DiFranco raged outside and only three just-announced eave their lives. Captain Philip led the Players through the scared guests remained, the murder accusations. Lombard, played by sopho­fun and frightening play. exciting climax unfolded. 
"Ten more Brennan Harvath, also The most impressing aspect Screams, shots, and the !rfect adds a twisted sense of sar­of "Ten Little Indians" was timely ringing of the Sacred t casm to the seemingly bleak that it actually sustained an Heart bells all added to make 
Despite situation. element of surprise at its con­an unexpected and twisted en­iques in While no person stood out clusion. A close observer ding to a well-performedsion to as a bad performer, St. Ed's could not fully predict the play. 




to be exciting as the quartet will be playing Mozart's Quartet in C Major, K. 465, "The Dissonant," "Fundvogel" by John Deak, and Mendelssohn's Quartet in A Minor, Opus 13. 
Tickets are on sale at the O'Laughlin Box Office, priced at $7.50, $6.50 and $5.50. Phone orders by Visa or Mas­tercard are accepted. The number at the Box Office is 
(219) 284-4626. It promises to be a beautiful performance, so make an attempt to hear the music of the Lark. 
•
review 

II I II l u saz 
Good fortune awaits you at Hunan 
MARK McLAUGHLIN the meal, since we got them ally make an appearance. We more fortune cookies when 
accent writer without ordering them and were tempted to try the din­my guest wolfed both of them 
weren't charged for them. ner for two, with two main down the first time. Why he 
A 
ll right, so it's a Most of the dishes are in the dishes, pork fried rice, and did this, I don't know, since converted $6 to $7 range. many appetizers for $15.95. they were too thick and too 
McDonald's. The The appetizer list had all The Kun-Pao Shrimp we or­well done. 
food here will the usual standbys, with eg­dered instead, however, was We were at the Hunan for 
make you wish that grolls, fried shrimp, and the no disappointment. The dinner but did notice their more McDonald's would ever-popular combination shrimp in the dish were large lunch special, which offered a close. platters. We tried the eggrolls and tasty, spiced up by an as­choice of several dishes, soup 
The place is the Hunan Res­and the pot stickers, and sortment of vegetables and a and an egg roll for $3.50. taurant, located at 2620 Lin­were pleasantly surprised. peanut sauce that was mild Looked like a good deal to us. coln Way West. It looks ... The eggrolls were a bit for Szechwan but adequate But we would go back for din­well, like a McDonald's with greasy but quite large and for Midwest spice tastes. We ner as well, simply because curtains. But the inside is in tasty. The pot stickers were also sampled the beef fried the food is the best of South typical Chinese restaurant correctly prepared and the rice, and found it to be fairly Bend's admittedly limited decor, with red curtains, sauce was a good comple­flavorful even without soy Chinese food offerings. paper lanterns, and a Chinese ment, although a sugary sub­sauce. zodiacal calendar on the stance had crystallized in it Service was courteous, our To get there, just take Iron­placemat. The seats are by the time we were finished. order was not mixed up, and wood Drive south until you hit plastic-covered, for some The aforementioned free egg courses were brought out in Lincolnway1 then turn rightobscure reason, but the atmo­drop soup was a bit bland, the correct order, which puts and look on the right. They're sphere is otherwise not too but the biggest disappoint­the Hunan above most other open 7 days a week from obnoxious. ments were the condiments, Chinese restaurants I've been 11:00 a.m. to 9:30p.m.. 
The menu items range from with a chunky and too-sour to in the area. However, we Weekends tend to be crowded, $10 for a Hong Kong steak to sweet and sour sauce and a had to wait a little for our but otherwise don't worry $4.55 for egg foo young, with spicy but tasteless mustard. water glasses to be refilled (a about getting a table. Trust eggrolls ($2.00) and other ap­The main course menu is pet peeve of mine) and a lot me, it's worth the trip. It's petizers extra. Rice, tea, for­predominantly Hunan and for our check. Oh well, you not New York Chinatown, but tune cookies, and egg drop Szechwan, although dishes can't have everything. They it's the best you'll find around soup apparently come with from other regions occasion-were nice about giving us here. 

page 12 etc. Friday, January 27, 1989 
Thoughts for an athlete dying young 

A
poem by A.E. Housman Thinking then it would not because the real father is ab­speech from the gods if you called "To an Athlete lack! Precedent of pain to sent, killed in the war. Jesse wanted to be insightfully Dying Young" contains the guide iV ...Surely then this Jackson says, "Nobody will truthful in eulogizing the ath­verses: "Smart lad, to slip flesh would know/ Yours had save us for us but us." He lete who served his team­betimes away/ From fields borne a kindred woe... " tells young blacks to say, "I mates as a young Christ by where glory does not stay/ A century and a half ago, am somebody. I am God's dying young. The good, dying And early though the laurel Harriet Beecher Stowe wrote child." young, always remind us of grows! It withers quicker than "Uncle Tom's Cabin." The From the wonderful looks Christ. a rose." Uncle Tom she gave us is of­of the young blacks at the I don't know what 
Last week, attending the ten described as a black Mass for Bob Satterfield last memories the football players memorial Mass for Bob Sat­Christ; latter-day blacks are week, Afro-Americans may will have of themselves as terfield in Sacred Heart not comfortable with his be black, but they're not blue, national champions. Perhaps, Church, I decided that "To an image. Martin Luther King, nor should they be. for they in their memories, they will Athlete Dying Young" would whom we've been honoring in live in a world apart from the play every game of the 
Harlem Renaissance; and season over and over, today in America, black is remembering how happy they:Father Robert Griffin beautiful for all God's were with the final score. children. Perhaps they will discover, in 
Letters to a Lonely God You'd need poetry to a painful way that spoils their describe what went on as fun, that the paths of glory those certified football cham-lead but to the grave. 
have been embarrassingly the month of his birth, was pions filled the front pews of Preferably, they will remem­inappropriate as a reading. pictured after his martyrdom Sacred Heart Church to say ber the Fiesta Bowl as their The Notre Dame athlete as a black Christ. Jesse Jack-goodbye to one of their own: St. Crispin's day, and adopt taken from us early and the son has a powerful way of black and white together, too as their own King Harry's Shropshire lad of the poem reminding us of how the much at home with each great speech: lived in different worlds. blacks in America have had other as team buddies to be 
Today's blacks take pride to carry the cross, as though conscious of themselves ex-in saying, "Black is beauti­it were part of their destiny emplifying what Martin Lut-
The good, dying
ful." Earlier in the century, to be witnesses in their flesh her King had in mind when Countee Cullen (1903-1946), a and blood to the suffering he said, "I have a dream." young, always poet of the Harlem Renais­Christ. You'd need poetry fur-
remind \IS of
sance, wrote, "Yet do I mar­In the Temptations' "Papa nished to you like the gift of vel at this curious thing:/ To Was a Rollin' Stone," black tongues if you wanted to Christ. make a poet black, and bid song writers speak frankly describe without triteness the him sing!" In a poem called and explicitly about a key cooperaton that must go on "Heritage," he wrote in this black male stereotype: among players when they go vein: "Papa was a rolling stone! out to the field with their "He that shall see this dayI 
"Jesus of the twice-turned Wherever he laid his hat was hearts set on nailing down a Will yearly on the vigil feast cheek, Lamb of God, although his home! And when he died! miracle. You'd need the Irish his neighbors! ...Old men for-I speak/ With my mouth thus, All he left us was alone." gift of gab if you wanted to get; yet all shall be forgot( in my hearV Do I play a "Color Him Father" depicts speak without sentimentality But he'll remember with ad-double part( Ever at Thy an ideal male parent: steady, of a team bound together by vantages/What feats he did glowing altali Must my heart kind, protective and willing to the mutual loyalty and that day.. / ...From this day to grow sick and falter 1 Wishing struggle. The Winstons sing, respect that is a prelude to the ending of the world( But He I served were black( "I to color him father"--brotherly love. You'd need we in it shall be remem­bered;/We few, we happy few, we band of brothers..." 
"The tumult and the shout­ing dies," wrote Kipling. "The Captains and the Kings depart...Lord God of Hosts, be with us yeV Lest we forget­-lest we forget!" The name of the athlete dying young will be green with remembrance. "Now you will not swell the rouV Of lads that wore their honours out( Runners whom renown outraw And the name died before the man." 
The Mass for Bob Satter­field was beautiful, but I wonder if, from a black per­spective, it lacked soul. We needed Ethel Waters to liven things up with, "I sing be­cause I'm happy. I sing be­cause I'm free. His eye is on the sparrow, and I know He watches me." 
In life, we are never far from Christ, reminding us that we owe God a death. His watchful eye is on the spar­row; and the athlete dying young is of more value than many sparrows, according to Christ's word. Death is like a sacrament signifying that Christ is present, strengthen­ing the lad who leaves us with His grace. 
The members of that cham­pionship team will not forget Bob's death; as they grow older, they will remember how sad it was when the good died young. They will under-
see GRIFFIN page 7 

Friday, January 27, 1989 The Observer 
Walsh resigns as 49er coach 
Defensive coordinator Seifert gets nod from DeBartolo 
Associated Press 
MONTEREY, Calif.--Bill 
Walsh went out a winner 
Thursday when he resigned as 
coach of the San Francisco 
49ers and joined Vince Lom­
bardi as the only coaches to 
step down after winning a 
Super Bowl. 
Walsh also won the power 
struggle with owner Eddie 
DeBartolo Jr. as the 49ers se­
lected defensive coordinator 
George Seifert as their new 
head coach. DeBartolo was 
reportedly interested in getting 
a well-known coach to take 
over, while Walsh lobbied hard 
for Seifert. 
Walsh will stay on with the 
49ers as executive vice presi­
dent for football operations. 
Walsh coached the 49ers to 
their third Super Bowl champi­
onship of the 1980s last Sunday, 
beating the Cincinnati Bengals 
20-16. 
Lombardi led Green Bay to 
victories in the first two Super 
Bowls (1967-1968) and then 
retired to the Packers' front of­
fice. He later returned as head 
coach of the Washington 
Redskins.
-
Relations between Walsh and DeBartolo have frequently been frosty. Last season, when the 49ers lost to Minnesota in the first round of the playoffs after compiling the league's best regular-season record, Walsh lost his team president title. 
But DeBartolo denied that there was a serious rift be­tween the two. 
Earlier this month, he told reporters, "That's the furthest thing from the truth that I could imagine. Bill and I are friends, good friends." 
Walsh, who held the 49ers' coaching position longer than anyone else and is only the team's fourth coach with a win­ning record, had strongly en­dorsed Seifert, a 49-year-old San Francisco native who has been a 49ers' defensive aide since 1980 and before that as­sisted Walsh at Stanford. 
Walsh, who ended his career with an overall record of 102­63-1, including playoff games, joined the 49ers in 1979 after two years as head coach at Stanford, where he compiled a 17-7 record and won bowls at the end of both seasons. 
In his first season, the stum­bling 49ers matched their 1978 record of 2-14. The following year they were 6-10. 
Then the fun began. 
In 1981, the 49ers, with Joe Montana out of Notre Dame at quarterback, went 13-3 and defeated Cincinnati in the Super Bowl. 
In strike-shortened 1982, the 49ers went 3-6. But they bounced back to 10-6 in 1983 and in 1984 went 15-1, winning their second Super Bowl with a resounding victory over the Miami Dolphins. 
They went 10-6 in 1985, 10_-5-1 in 1986 and 13-2 in 1987 but seeds of dissent between Walsh and DeBartolo were sown when San Francisco lost first-round playoff games all three 
seasons. 
Last season looked to be 
more of the same, and the 49ers 
at one point were just 6-5, 
embroiled in a nasty quarter­
back controversy and all but 
written off for the playoffs. 
But Montana returned to 
form and sent Steve Young to 
the bench, the team won four 
of its last five to go 10-6 in the 
regular season. 
page 13 





AP Photo Bill Walsh became only the second NFL coach to quit with a Super Bowl trophy In hand as he announced his retirement from coaching Thursday. George Seifert will take over for Walsh. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
For Sale: SYNTHESIZER call Joe 1865 Interested in acting in a theater troupe? Do you like acting ICHTHUS ICHTHUS new group formmg on campus callx4603 COMEDY? DRAMA? IMPAOV? Meeting tonight library Lounge 6:30
NOTICES FOR RENT 
2 plane tix Chicago-St Louis ~ 5 $25 per or x3105 for audition details. then IRISH ACCENT wants you Tryots ICHTHUS ICHTHUS or best offer. Call 2395802 day 2773480 Tue. Jan. 31 call Doug x 4603 or Tim x EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU HOUSE FOR RENT 3 BLOCKS FROM 
night SUMMER JOBS 3105 MRS. COKER, 233-7009. NO 3 BEDROOMS-$475-MO 516 
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS 

··············-····· 
NAPOLEON 232-3616 ROUNDTRIP TICKET FROM IN­PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS AE YOU CREATIVE? IRISH ACCENT, HAPPY BIRTHDAY JULIE BROWN 21SEEKING MAGNAVOX ODESSEY 
DIANAPOLIS TO FORT LAUD. CALL ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR a n-theater troupe wants you. 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 HAPPYCARTRIDGES ESPECIALLY FOOT· 6 BDRM HSE AVAILABLE 89-90 
BRIAN AT X1750 LAKE TRYOUTS Jan. 31 No experience nec­BIRTHDAY JULIE BROWNBALL. THIS MIGHT NOT SEEM IMPOR­SCHOOL YEAR. 675-MO. 234-9384. 
PLACID. CAU 1-800-343-8373 essary call Doug x4603 or Tim x31 05 TANT. BUT BELIEVE ME. IT IS. IF YOU. 
FOR SALE: Boston Accoustics A 70 HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHELSEA OR ANYONE YOU KNOW CAN HELP, HOUSING FOR 6 STUDENTS. $125 
are you fun-loving, outgoing, and high­THE MONETARY REWARD WILL BE EACH MONTHLY PLUS DEPOSIT AND Satt. we love you and
spkrs. (pr.). SPECS: 90db. 45to 20000 Did you think that we would forget? Well 
hz.,8" woof.,1" tweet.,15to 75 wthan. spirited? Why not tryout for IRISH AC· don't look so SUPAISED!!!!GREAT. CALL 277-6224. UTIUTIES. CALL 288-2100232.01J18. and will miss you.
RETAIL $350. 3.5 yrs left on 5 yr. war­CENT? LOVE C. B & C 
The SchmeeeeeeeAs rantee. LIKE NEW!! Call Tony Troup atThe memory has been preserved. Order 

288-6603. Asking $250 o.b.o. NEGOTI· IRISH ACCENT 
your limited edition. laminated copy ol 
ABLE! The rest of my stereo stolen. CATHY SAVINO IS THE BEST
January 3rd"s TEMPE DAILY NEWS· YOUTH IN ASIA
MUST SELL!!I HAPPY BIRTHDAY AND 
sports page. Send $12.95 plus 2.00 WANTED YOUTH IN ASIA 
......................... KEENAN MEN!! Spots still open in "How HAPPY ANNIVERSARY 
postage and handling along with your SENIOR BAR
1986 TOYOTA TERCEL 2DA LIFTBACK to Accept Bribes 10 1". •••••••1 LOVE YOU ••••••• 
name and address to:DAH Products-Post OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Set. 10:00p.m.
EXC COND 25.000 MILES $3900. CALL me
Office Box 12999 Artington. VA 22209 Summer, Yr.round,AII Countries, All SENIOR BAR
JANET 284-5710 8-4:30 M-F .OLD TIME ROCK 'N' ROLL !felda. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· 
...... ················ 

TYPING AVAILABLE IN04-Corona Del Mer, CA 92625 
WEEKEND WHEELS RIDES AGAIN!! 287-4082 SPRINGBREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE 
WANTED:MAGNAVOX ODESSEY 50Ft. YACHTS BIMINI BAHAMAS Starting Friday and Saturday and con­To Cel (otherwise known as Juliet),
TICKETS

CARTRIDGES PARTICULARLY FOOT· GROUPS OF 8, $435.00 PP 7 DAYS HAPPY 22ND TO THE MOST
tinuing every weekend... Have a good time and leave your keys behind.
Typln!J'Wordproceaolng BALL. GOD WILL LOOK KINDLY UPON INCLUDES ALL MEALS AWESOME SISTER IN THE NEED 3 DUKE TICKETS. CALL ANNE See the schedule in Fnday's paper.
237-1949 YOU IF YOU HELP. YOU'LL BE PAID, 1-800-999-7245 ANYTIME WOALDI!IIEven though you are now TOO. CALL 277-6224 ORGANIZE & CRUISE FREE "over the hill," I still think that you are
It's lree!!! pretty cool!ltll(l think Romeo does too!) STAND IN LINE TODAY or bribe a COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshi"' Love Betsy King KEENAN guy tomorrow. Mts., West. Mass. Good Sal.,room & Thank you St. Jude lor helping me find 
3736 

NEED DUKE TIX: TODD X4384 O'hare to New Orleans Air Ticket bd,travel allowance. beautilul modern my preCIOUS 
for sale. ~-:Mi. $140 negotiable Bob lacility,must love children & be able to NEED 3 DUKE TICKETS-CALL SEAN Bias-­
1521. teach one ol the following: Tennis. 1398 The CHESS KING Gilt Certilicate expires W.S.I.,Sailing Hey 307 Farley soon. I know you've got everything they
S.U.B. PRESENTS
0 holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great Waterski,Basebaii,Basketbaii,Soccer Here's looking to Pop Fartey round 4. sell, but maybe you need two of some­
NEED 2 DUKE GAS CALL 2281 SOUTH PADRE OR VAIL SPRING in virtue and rich in m1ractes. near LaCrosse.Wood,A&C.Aocketry, Photog­Thanks for being the u~imate Fartey wo· thing.
························ BREAKS 
kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful interces­raphy,Archery,Pioneering, men. --Papa Bear
NEED 2 DUKE GAs-Kristin x1124 SIGN UP TONIGHT AT 7:30 PM sor of all who invoke your special Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp Jimmy 
LA FORTUNE MONTGOMERY 
patronage in time of need. To you I have Winadu,5 Glen La .. Mamaroneck. NY 
HELP!!!II!!II!!IIII!!!!!!!!!I!!I!! I REALLY THEATER recourse lrom the depth of my heart and 10543. (914)381-5983 Todey'a the dey, yea, the one we've
NEED TWO DUKE GA'S SOON! $$$ University Sanctioned so you'll get the humbly beg to whom God has given such 
PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 2163 AND TEN LITTLE INDIANS most for your money! all been wafting tor-great power to come to my present and NO lilw ochool otudenta to be reps LEAVE A MESSAGE $$$$$$$$$$$$$ tickets. This novena cost more than $2, KATERIKERWIN urgent petrtion. In return I promise to lor Keplan-SMH Bar Review couroes. so I should have just bought new tickets. tumo11111 So all you guys who've bean
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spendmake your name known and cause you Eorn free bar review course pluo SS's. NEED 4 GA's and 1 student tix for DUKE welting, give her a cell et 121144!1
7ntridayo at Sprtng Break's HOT­to be invoked. (3 Our Father's, 3 Hail Cell 272-4135. Ask lor Sue. RESORT HOTELS Cruiselines.Airtines & HAPPY BIRTHDAY KAT!! K&M
game--Please call x4980 TEST resort, The Clarendon Pleze 
Mary's, 3 Glona's). St. Jude pray for us Amusement Parks, NOW accepting ap­
home of Penrod'o!The Plantation Club and all who 1nvoke your aid. Amen. COUNSELORS-Girls camp in Maine. plications for spring and summer jobs, STUDENTS NEEDED TO ACT AS UVE
WE NEED THREE DUKE GA'S. end the largest pool deck ON THE Publication must be promised. This Good sal.room & bd.,travel allowance, PLEASE CALL RICK OR JOE AT 1644. 1ntennships,and career positions. For BEACH! $195 por peroon ltmlted STREET MUSICIANS AND STREET 
novena has never been known to fail. beautiful modem lacility,must love more information and an application: ENTERTAINERS. CALL BOB AT 239­
apace. Cell today Breakllwey Touro 1­
Say it lor 9 consecutive days My request children and be able to teach one of the write National Collegiate Recreation Ser­7254.
800-444-7384.
has been granted beyond all possible lollowing:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing vice PO Box 8074: HiHon Head SC 29938
-3 Temple tlcketo.belief.JPH. Waterski,Soltbaii,Basketball, Soc· Call (day) 237-2920 or night 272-7690. HAPPY 21st TO THE HODEA, BREAK YOUTH IN ASIA AT MCCORMICK'S cer,LaCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN! VALENTINE GLAMOUR Give that spe­OUT THE OOUBLE STUFFS AND 10:00 TONITE back,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp Cial guy the best gift of all-yoursen-in a 
CELEBRATE! 

Craft,Gymnastics.Call or write:Camp glamour portrart by Joe Ringer. Call lor 4:45ERS AND FRIENDS OF THE SEAS: Vega, Box 1771 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 Please, I desperately need 2 Duke Stud details and lree brochure. 28HJ613. Thanks tor the greet birthday! I was really 
.................... 
THANK YOU Jesus. Sts. Joseph, Jude, (617)934·6536 tix! Cengiz Searfoss x1658 & Anthony, & Mon. Escriva for granted 
surprised. You guys are the best!! Campus rocMlard rock band seeking Love,KU
intentions MAKE HUNDREDS IN YOUR SPARE 4 Temple & Duke tixs for sale. 272-6306 MALE VOCALIST. Call Steve or Pete at .............•...... TIME PLACING POSTERS. NO SELL· x1167. HI BOB! 
\ LOST/FOUND 
Anyone driving to or thru the MilwaukeeSEEKING MAGNAVOX ODESSEY 
tNGI CALL (918)33MONEY 
area the weekend of Feb. 3 have room CARTRIDGES, ESPECIALLY FOOT· II! HEY BAND GEEK !I Tonight's the To whoever sent the birthday note to
lor 2-4 riders to share expenses? Call BALL. THE IMPORTANCE OF FINDING ROOMMATE NEEDED AS 6TH MAN IN PERSONALS night! Disco Bus rocks Theodore's 11 :30! Chris or Paige fl 2923 ASAP. SUSSIE-You have aroused my THIS CANNOT BE OVERSTATED IF curiousity--please send into
HOUSE FOR NEXT YEAR. CALL DAN !! Rock the bus NO I! ............................................ more 
YOU CAN HELP. PLEASE CALL 277· X4079 OR GEOFF AT X4295 FOR (flowers would be nice toot)
STAND-IN LINE TODAY... or bribe6224 
DETAILS FREE PERM BY ZOTOS DESIGNER 
a KEENAN GUY tomorrow. ·················. ··················· MALE OR FEMALE Lost: ND Alumni Club ol Cincinnati Ban· WANTED:USED COMPACT DIS· PRAY TO ST. JUDE Models needed lor Zoto heir ohow on 
Gooch 
Gooch

ner at the Sheraton Scottsdale. Please 
C.WtPAY UP TO $7 EA. 291-4492 OR OF Feb. 6, 8 ""'· In South Benet For more ... OLD TIME ROCK 'N" ROLL return--no questions asked. 291·9044. trrto, cell Jan Swanoon elter 8 pm at GOOCHA 
256-0898. Happya Blrthdaya froma the sixa maneADOPT: Ana-a proyer lor your a the rests ola youra Alumnia boysa. P.S.
bob!J't:hlld to share JovMec:urtty In DILLON HALL 

Live Muolc Sarah, can Gooch ptay hoops on Satur·FOUND-a Smrth Carona typewriter FOR SALE hoppy home. Expen-poJdl con­VOTE VOTE VOTE VOTE day?
at the bus stop fri. before X-Mas break. lldentlal1egel. Cell collect 415-325-DILLON HOUSE Call and claim. x2297 9288. THIEL 
"Youth In Alia" 

Order your TEXTBOOKS 25% OFF! LEZYNSKI SPRING BREAK IN MAZATLAN. •••••• LOST ·•···· One pair of SAVE $$$ on paperbacks. 30% OFF! Hey Sexy-GET SOME PORTER MEXICO $450 round trip air fare IW1d
et McCormick'• tortoiseshell-rimmed glasses in Bridget's PANDORA'S BOOKS BOB Howard St. -Dictated by Hormones DONAHOE lodging. Deadline-Feb. 1. For more info,
125 N. Michigan 10 p.m.
or Commons last Sat. night(11.!1). Please Just 3 blocks from campus. PHI 233-call Kim x4420. 
FRIDAY NIGHT

call Kevin at 289-8415. Thanks. 2342 
LAW SCHOOL: Start your Ber Roovlew BANDS TOM SCHLEGEL: We've made rtthrough lost-pair of blaclt leather gloves on for sale CASIO KEYBOARD come try rt •rty. Keplen-SMH rev-. to many Bored Records is looking lor original ga­16months. Thanks lorthefuntimes Heve shuttle Jan. 20. Ptease-it's cold out! II out. call 4634 otatee available hare In South Bend. rag8'1111emative music to include on its a great weekend. N. 2804 Trenllfer beck home lor summer. Dll­midwest compilation project. Send tapa 
CANCUN

FOR SALE: Sears electric typewriter counte lor Keplen LSAT alumni. and a brief bio to Bored Records 1908 "Heep! I'm being held hostage. H you love 
There is no aubolilute
LOST: 0rgo lab Can:t--n lound calf wtorrection. Best off8f-RHerw before llerch 2 Cell272-4135. Salem St.,Lalayette,IN 47904. Entries me, go read the Denny's menu at The
Cell John x1694.

x"936. Trish x-4003 AU lor Sue. must be poetmall<ed by Feb. 15. Obee<ver. 1mia8 your Your bedlpeclc 

page 14 The Observer Friday, January 27, 1989 
Irish wrestler Jerry Durso, shown here In his win ~ i against Nebraska's Dave Droegmuller, can move Into first place on the Notre Dame all-time career 
'88 lnterhall hoops heat up 
By BARBARA MORAN Sports Writer As men's Inter hall basketball action con­tinues, several teams have emerged as leaders in their respective divisions. Keenan Hall is currently in first place in the Big Sky divi­sion with a record of 4-0 after its recent 62-53 win over Flan­ner. Captain Steve McCarthy cites a combination of rebound­ing strength and hard practice as the reasons for Keenan's success. "Gary Anderson and Joe Hip­pler are great on the boards," said McCarthy,'' and Tony Dill is a tough point guard and de­fensive player. We have three games left and a good shot at winning the division." Keenan will attempt to hold their _fir~ I>l~ ~lot against 

If)uire lP'~ to drink <11'£1 dri..e at least let the re-1 of lll> kncM. Reader's Digest 
"STAT£ DEPARTMENT policy had been .to describe the Salvadoran guerrilfas as 'leftists,' as if the peopllo of El Salvador were bt'­ing ..-orized by roving bands of McG?.vernites." 
~­
4­
To sub,.;ribe tc .'Ia· tiona/ Rev~·et4' call 
1-H00-341-1522, or 
write NR. IS() East 
35th Street, Nrw 
·-·--.. York. NY JOOJf>. 
Stanford on Monday. 
In the Big Ten league, unde­feated Fisher is holding first place. Fisher will face a chal­lenge when they play second place Pangborn in early February. Pangborn recently defeated Alumni to move into second place, and count on the play of high scorer Martin Somerville to move them into the playoffs. 
The ACC league is being led by undefeated Morrissey. They will face their greatest chal­
lenge against the strong off-
campus Invincibles. Second place in the ACC league is held by Carroll. Tough play by Bob Kloska and Joe Meyer has gained a 3-1 record for Carroll, with its only loss being a five point defeat at the hands of the talented Morrissey squad. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
DAY EDITOR TYPIST 
For further information contact Jim Winkler at The Observer (239-5303) 
HAPPY 19TH 
BIRTHDAY TO 
#8, 32, 19, 12 
MUCH LOVE, 
MOM, DAD, ED, CHRIS AND BRANDY 

Durso goes for record; Irish host Catholics 
By DAVE McMAHON suredly will occur when senior 
Sports Writer co-captain Jerry Durso takes 
the floor for his second match. 

An influx of Catholic univer-Durso, a starter from begin­
sities will invade the Joyce ACC ning the end of his four years 
at 7 p.m. Sunday as the Irish at Notre Dame, needs two more 
wrestling team hosts the Na-wins to break the record of 
tional Catholic Tournament. most wins in a career, which 
"Our goal is to put ten now stands at 118. 
wrestlers in the finals," said "Numbers aren't really im­
McCann. "We're better portant to me," said Durso, 
balanced than we were last ranked seventh in the nation. 
year and I think we can do it." "Istayedhealthyforfouryears 
The field of teams, including and the wins just came along." 
Marquette, Dayton, John Car-Durso credits his success to 
roll, Manhattan, Sienna both players and coaches of a 
Heights, and LaSalle, should program that has gained 
provide the Irish with a break ground over the last few years. 
from a schedule that has been "The new coaches were here 
one of the strongest nation-during my freshman year and 
wide. they started what has become 
"The schedule has been in-a stable program. We also have 
tense throughout the season, so some really good guys to work­
we're using this as a break," out with and that helps every­
said McCann. "But each team one," said Durso. 
has a few wrestlers who can "My greatest goal is to be­
get to the finals." come a National Champion or 
John Carroll, highly ranked All-American. I'd like to peak
in Division III, will present the towards the end of the season 
Irish with the most problems. so we can do well at nationals," 
Record breaking almost as-said the 134-pounder.
..____._________________., 
SUMMER 1989 
Like children? Like the outdoors? Like Water Activities? 
Be a counselor in Pine River, MN at CAMP FOLEY 
We Will Be On Campus Jan 30 1 0:00-3:00 O'Hara Lounge La Fortune 
Now hiring counselors in 14 areas including 
swimmimg, tennis, sailing, and many more_ 
Questions? Call Mike 283-3520 
CATHOLIC FAITHSERIES CATHOLIC FAITH AND DOUBT The Mind's Search for God 
Is the mind to stop asking questions and reason to be "left behind" In the commitment of religious faith? How does the Roman Catholic tradition 
· address these questions in the lives and writings of its holy and great thinkers? 

KATHERINE TILLMAN, 
Ph.D Associate Professor, Program of Liberal Studies will address these questions on Sunday, Jan 29 and on Tuesday, Jan. 31 in Keenan Chapel 7-8:30 pm. 
For further information call Sister Mary Curran, CSC, 
Campus Ministry 239-5242 

, 
d'ti-IM 
(niDAY, JAR 27 ) ~AftRDAY, JAN 2-D ~ 
·STUDENT· UN I ON· BOARD· 






Friday, January 27, 1989 The Observer page 15 
•

Irish hockey battles Canisius 1n weekend series 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team hopes to continue "doing the little things right" this weekend when it hosts Canisius in a two-game series at the Joyce ACC. 
Starting times for the Friday and Saturday games will be 7:30p.m. 
The Irish (7-21-2) have won three of their last four games, including last Saturday's 4-2 victory over Lake Forest. Ac­cording to Coach Ric Schafer, solid play away from the puck has been the key to Notre Dame's recent .string of vic­tories. 
"We've been paying particu­lar attention to the little things that make a difference," said Schafer, "Checking somebody away from the play, keeping them tied up so they can't break in for an open shot." 
"It's the plays away from the puck that win hockey games. We payed a little more atten­tion to that last Saturday night, and it payed dividends for us." 
Another factor that has con­tributed to Notre Dame's im­proved play is its increased 
1eneed someonewith 
theronfidenaofa~ 
thededicationor­
amarathonerandthe 
rourageofan explorer. 
We need a Peace: Corp-. WJiunlffr Call us all-800-ot24-8SSO. ExI. 9l 
Career Opportunities with ECOLAB 
Interested in career opportunities with a fast growing premium service company? Ecolab is the leading worldwide developer and marketer of premium institutional and residential services. Our worldwide institutional business includes cleaning products and services for the hospitality and food processing markets. Residential services are provided by our ChemLawn subsidiary. Ecolab is a $1.2 billion company positioned for rapid growth and is the market leader in each of its key businesses. 
On February 8 and 9, representatives from Ecolab will be on campus to discuss career opportunities for MBA Candidates in Treasury, Corporate Development, Financial Analysis, Audit and Management Reporting. We will be hosting a reception on Wednesday, February 8 from 7-9 pm in the Alumni Room. Interviews will take place the following day. 
Additional information is available in the placement office or contact our campus recruiting coordinator, JoAnn Butwinick (612 I 293-2812) 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4 8:00 PM 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
All seats reserved $15.50 Tickets available at the Civic Auditorium Box Office, Night Winds, Record Connection, and the usual outlets. 
productivity in the scoring department. 
Right wing Tim Kuehl, who leads the Irish with 16 goals this season, has scored seven goals in his last four games. Left wing Matt Hanzel, Notre Dame's second-leading scorer with 15 goals, has netted eight goals in his last eight games. 
"We scored more goals than we usually do," said Schafer. 
"That helped the cause--to be up and playing with confi­dence. It would be nice to jump out to a lead in both games this 

Women's tennis battles Minnesota 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
Two of the best women's ten­nis teams in the region will face off this Saturday when No.4 Notre Dame travels to Mil­waukee, Wis. to confront No.5 Minnesota. The Gophers are currently ranked fourth in the Big Ten. 
"We're going to have to give it everything we've got," said Irish head coach Michele Gelfman. "Our top players are just above theirs so the matches should be excellent." 
One such battle will occur when Notre Dame's No.1 player, CeCe Cahill, meets Minnesota's Ann Gordie. Cahill 
KEE"fl" ~EVOE 

ncKET DISTRIBOTIO" 
TODf'Y 

N.D. 3:00P.M.-GATE 10 JACC (no lines before 2:00) SMC 5:00 P.M. -HAGGAR HALL LOBBY (no lines before 4:00) TICKETS ARE FREE 
S1200 Scholarship for eight weeks of your summer 
devoted to service wort 
In clttes of Alumni Clubs all over the U.S. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FEBRUARY 1 
stop by the Center for 
Soclel Concerns for tnfo end appltutton 
is ranked fifth in the region while Gordie occupies the eighth position. 
The two have never played before and because they have such diverse styles, the out­come cannot be easily predicted. 
"CeCe is a baseliner, consis­tent, with finesse and a great lob,"said Gelfman. "Gordie, on the other hand, is a serve­and-volleyer. She's not afraid to approach the net and she has a sound midcourt game. Their opposing techniques should make the match exciting." 
In doubles, the top Irish com­bination of Cahill and Tracy Barton will take on Min­nesota's Gordie and Natalie weekend and then carry on from there." 
Canisius (10-6-1) is led by left wing Mike Sisti, who paces the team with 16 goals and 32 points. Right wing Dave Yablecki (8-15-23) and defen­seman Craig Jantzi (6-13-19) also play prominent roles for the Ice Griffs. Goalie Scott Diebold has posted a 9-5-1 record in 15 games this season, while giving up an average of 
3.50 goals ~r game. 
"We had two good games with them last year," said Schafer, referring to Notre Dame's 5-4 and 7-4 victories at 
Canisius. "They're a Division 
I hockey team as we are, but I 
don't think they have many 
scholarships, as we don't." 
"I think we're gonna have 
two good games this weekend. 
All we have to do is keep 
playing the way we did last Sat­
urday night." 
Notre Dame might have to play without the services of right wing Mark McClew this weekend. McClew has spent most of the week in the infir­mary and is listed as question­able for the weekend series. 
Breitag. Cahill and Barton are 
ranked sixth in the region while 
Gordie and Breitag are eighth. 
Notre Dame will be without No.4 singles player Kristy Doran, who is sick. The ad­justed line-up includes Cahill, followed by Barton, Katie Clark, Kim Pacella, Tyler Mus­leh and Natalie Illig. 
While the contest between Notre Dame and the Gophers is the first between the two schools, the Irish hold a 7-0 record over Marquette, the team they will face on Sunday. 
"I don't expect any problems with Marquette," said Gelfman. "Their best compet­itor will play Cahill and CeCe's beaten her before." 
The weekend matches are Notre Dame's first of the reg­ular season. The Irish hope to establish a winning pace right from the start. The team did not practice over winter vaca­tion; however, the women did play on their own. 
"Most of the girls played in tournaments and stuck to their lifting programs," said Gelfman. "Their break from school was not a break from tennis for them, so they are still on top of their games." 
Join The Observer 
STEAKS ~r-·.
PRIME RIB .. '.\_ . SEAFOOD ~IC " 
~ 

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 

page 16 The Observer Friday, January 27, 1989 
t: 
Irish race Cyclones, Badgers 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Saturday will definitely not be just another stroll in the park for the Notre Dame men's track team when it travels to Madison, Wis. to take on Big
! 
Ten powerhouse Wisconsin and ( Iowa State. But the Irish have momen­tum after beating Loyola last
It 
week to claim the Midwestern Collegiate Conference title and are ready to take on Wisconsin­-defending national cross country champion--on their home turf, as well as Iowa State, which finished the cross country season ranked sixth. 
Notre Dame too, has its share of polished distance runners, as it's harriers finished ninth in the nation, so the distance races should be the highlight of the tri-meet. 
"All three teams are strong in that area," said Irish assis­will try to repeat his perfor­mance against Loyola in which he tallied two first place finishes with 48.03 in the 400­meter dash and a 23.37 in the 200-meter dash. 
Searcy, who qualified for the IC4As in both events, will be joined in the sprinting corps by sophomore Robert Harris and a freshman speedster better known for his rocket-like speed on the football field than on the track--Raghib Ismail. 
The Irish will also be looking their field events to help rack up points tomorrow, especially sophomore John Cole who took first place and qualified for the IC4As in the high jump with a leap of 6-10. 
"I'm really excited about IC4As," said Cole, "but I still want to jump 7-() to make NCAAs. This weekend should help me do that too, because of the great competition, espe­cially from guys like Bruce Reynolds from Wisconsin." 
Fellow sophomores Jeff Smith, who won the long jump with a leap of 22-9 1/.! and finished fourth in the triple jump and Jim Varga, who won the 55-meter high hurdles with a time of 7.81 will need to turn in another strong performance. 
Junior Chris Bush and fresh­man Marc deManigold brought home wins against Loyola and will try tally another victory Saturday against Wisconsin and Iowa State. 
"We're not looking past this weekend," said Cole, "but we consider it more important right now to use the meet as a preparation for the bigger meets down the road rather than for the sake of a victory. Itwill be a good chance to mark our progress and try to get as many people qualified for fu­ture meets." 

tant coach Tim Connelly. "We r-------------------------1­
have (seniors) Dan Garrett and Ron Markezich, who both earned All-American honors during cross country, and guys 
(, 
like (sophomore) Ryan Cahill in the mile, so I think we'll run well." But with tight races expected in the distance races, the sprints and field events can­not be overlooked. "The dis­tance races will be outstand­ing," continued Connelly, "but we have good sprinters, throwers and jumpers too, who are training very hard so we're confident going into this weekend." 
Junior co-captain Yan Searcy, who shares his cap­

tain's duties with Markezich, -r-------------------------+-·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~8th Annual 
~WllRlllOO~ rnllru~!IK\ 
1989 


RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 


• BREAK WITH AWINNER • NO AIR MATTRESSES • CONFIRMED RESERVATIONS • 
j 
J 
l 

SHERATONCONDOORHOTEL, HOLIDAY INN, GULFVIEWOR 
tt4f1*

I' 
LANDFALL TOWER CONDOS • 5 OR 7 NIGHTS 
I 
STEAMBOAT 
SHADOW RUN CONDOS OR OVERLOOK HOTEL • 5 OR 7 NIGHTS LODGING-LIFTS-PICNIC-RACE-GOODIE BAG! 
DAYTONA BEACH 
TEXAN HOTEL AND KITCHENETTES 7NIGHTS 
PORT ROYAL CONDOS  ~  
5 OR 7NIGHTS  jroM  
HILTON HEAD ISLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND BEACH &TENNIS RESORT ?NIGHTS  r!10/*  
DON·r DELAY!  

-~nUil?r/lilhifrN,BiJJ;it• 
~130 * 

CENTRAL SPRING BREAK J~~~ INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 

• Oepe.r1dmg on brea4 dJtes and leoglh ot st.h' 
foil( 
7 
$113* 
fo/1( {,. 
$11'Q* 
foil( 
u 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
The NO swim teams won dual meets Thursday at Cleveland State. The men's team (6-2) defeated the Vikings 158-85 to win its fourth consecutive dual meet. The women's team (4-5) snapped a three-meet losing streak with its 191-105 victory. Both teams face St. Bonaventure in an away meet Saturday. -The Observer 
The University of Minnesota got 20 points and 13 rebounds from Willie Burton to upset No. 1 Illinois 69-62 Thursday at Minneapolis. In other games Thursday, North Carolina State hammered Duke 88-73, Louisville pounded Southern Mississippi 91-76, Arizona blasted Arizona State 96-71 and Florida State edged South Carolina 69-67. 
Associated Press 
The South Bend Mini-Mites will be playing between periods of the Notre Dame hockey team's series with Canisius this Friday and Saturday. Both Irish games start at 7:30 p.m. at the Joyce ACC, and the Mini-Mites will take the ice during the first-period intermissions on both nights. -The Observer 
Shorin-Ryu Karate will be holding a demonstration Saturday at 1 p.m. in the Joyce ACC fencing gym. Classes begin Jan. 30 and will be held every Monday and Wednes­day from 7 p.m. to 8:30p.m. in the JACC fencing gym. For further information, call 271-8405. -The Observer 
.----------------------• 
lOW 
Bruno's Free Delivery to CampusSl off any pizza 
Call this number 2811-4825 
Happy 21st Birthday 
Christopher D. Dierks (Sparky) 
Love you, Katie and the rest of your 
Christmas elves. 
Holy _jL_ 

Vocation 
CrossJK 

Discernment
Priests& Brothers Retreat 
For those who are considering a vocation to priesthood and religious life in Holy Cross as a possibility. 
Founders of the University of Notre Dame,Holy Cross Priests & Brothers serve in a variety of worldwide mini­stries: schools, foreign missions, parishes and auxiliary services. 
PURPOSE: To meet and pray with others who are also searching in a supportive atmosphere 
DISCERNMENT: Is the art of finding God's will; it is the process of discovering what we are called to be. 
PLACE: Fatima Retreat Center--Notre Dame campus DATE: Begins Friday, February lOth at 7:30PM 
Ends Saturday, February 11th at9:00 PM COST: No cost REGISTRATION: Call Vocation Office at239-6385 
ADWORKS 



Friday, January 27, 1989 The Observer page 17 
LNO Schedule 
9 p.m. 
Halfcourt Basketball Water Lacrosse Nerf Football lnnertube Water Polo Raquetball Singles Indoor Soccer Dunk Tank 
10 p.m. Whiffle Ball Volleyball 
10:30 p.m. Arm Wrestling Table Tennis 
Obstacle Course Relay Open Skating 
11 p.m. 
Broom ball 
Late Night Olympics returns 
NVA's big event is more than just a good time 
By BARBARAMORAN such as the celebrity dunking fit the St. Joseph County Special 
Sports Writer booth. The dunking booth will Olympics. In addition to the 
feature many Notre Dame money prize, the winning team 
For all you sports celebrities, including football will also receive a pizza party 
fans out there who hate pre-players Tony Rice, George Wil­donated by the Alumni Associ­
dawn jogging and 9:05 physical Iiams and Frank Starns and the ation. 
education classes, do not dis-Notre Dame leprechaun. Although over 1000 competi­
pair: the Late Night Olympics tors participated last year, an 
have finally arrived! All the events will be run si­even greater turnout is ex­
multaneously, and the game pected this year. 
The third annual Late Night length and format for each 
Olympics will be held tonight tournament will be determined "Last year we had to com­from 9 p.m. to 4 a.m. in the by the number of entries in pete with several SYRs and the JACC. each event. Keenan Revue," said NVA of­Spectators are also welcome ficial Matthew Haney, "so 
All 26 Notre Dame and St. and the charge for admission we're expecting a lot more Marys' halls are entered in the be 50 cents. The public will be people this year --it should be Olympics and will participate allowed to take part in several a lot of fun." in events ranging from inner-events, such as the dunk tank, Assistant NVA director Sally tube water polo to broomball to and there will be open skating Derengoski agreed: nerf football. on the ice rink after 10:30 PM. 
A concession stand will also be "We're expecting a bigger
Each dorm will be grouped open, and commerative t-shirts turnout this year. Team entries with two or three other dorms will be sold. for every sport but one have to make up each team. Teams gone up --it's very encouraging. 
will score points not only for The admission cost, together We're hoping for 1500-2000 winning events, but also for the with the $100.00 entry fee people to participate and to number of games they partici­donated by each team, will go raise over $2000 for the St. pate in, and for involvement in toward the grand prize for the Joseph's County Special Olym­the Not-Quite-Olympic games, winning team and also to bene-pics." 
Spring Break, 
go Greyhourxr 
For just $49.SO each way, you and your friends can afford to pile on Greyhound. Whether it's the beach, the slopes or your hometown, 
!49f!Q 
each way based on round-trip purchase. 
iUIGOGREYHOUND 
~Arxflemethedrivingrous: 
4671 Terminal Drive•287-6541 
.\1ust pn:s~nt \~a lid colkge I. D. card upon purchase. :--:o other discounts applv. Tickets are nontransferahle and good only ti>r travel on Greyhound and other partKipatmg carn~rs. Ofkr limnrd .llrevh~1und also offer~ low .\1onev Sawr fares. Some restrictions apply. Spring Break fare available 2 I SY through -1 30·89and IS suh1ect tu changdnthom notice. ©19llYGreyhound Lines, Inc. 
Owls 
continued from page 20 
does not mean less of a chal­
lenge for the Irish. 
"Their record this year is no 
indication of how well they're 
able to play in a game," Phelps 
said. "Knowing how good a co­
ach John Chaney is, and 
knowing how good Vreeswyk 
and Macon are as players, 
they'll shoot the ball as well as 
anybody we play. 
"They'll play smart defense, 
that match-up zone which 
they've done for years. I think 
we'll have to play with a lot of 
concentration. We have to 
know where the shooters are as 
well as where the gaps are." 
Temple looks for the deep 
jump shot frequently, hitting 
110 of 277 three-point tries this 
season, led by Macon (28-of-80) 
and Vreeswyk (47-of-112). Ot­
her starters for the Owls are 
6-6 forward Ernest Pollard, 6-7 
freshman forward Mik Kil­
gore, and 6-11 center Duane 
Causwell, who leads the team 
with 9.1 rebounds per game. 
Notre Dame may be without 
the services of junior co­
captain Jamere Jackson, who 
hyperextended his knee in a 
collision with teammate 
LaPhonso Ellis against Rut­
gers Tuesday night. Jackson 
did not practice Thursday, and 
his status is day-to-day. With­
out him, the Irish will look to 
two freshman guards from 
Texas, Elmer Bennett and 
Daimon Sweet. 
"If (Jackson) doesn't go, 
we've got to go with Elmer or 
Daimon," Phelps said. "We'll 
see what happens. The Texas 
Express is ready to go. 
"We're getting our depth to play with confidence. I think that's starting to show. The other night when Jamere got hurt, Sweet came off the bench and scored 15. We want to get eight or nine guys playing in that rhythm we want to play." 
Sophomore forward Kevin Ellery, who has missed action because of an outstanding grade, was still in limbo Thursday, with no decision yet being made on his eligibility. 
Rounding out the starters for the Irish will be forwards Ellis and Keith Robinson and guards Joe Fredrick and Tim Singleton. 
i \ 
I 1 
·.I \ 
. ( i \ 
1' 
lll 
Iii 
u 
l 
Tlll
\, 
·I 
l ·l 11 
il 
I 
l 
·' 
I 
t: 
1 
Sweet gets out on the spot 
Irish freshman responds with 15 points against Rutgers 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame basketball fans 
knew what they were losing 
when Jamere Jackson, one of 
their team's most consistent 
players, hyperextended his 
knee Tuesday night against 
Rutgers. ­
But they probably had no 
idea what they were getting in 
return. · 
Daimon Sweet, a 6-5 fresh­
man from Beaumont, Tex., 
who had scored a total of 22 
points in Notre Dame's first 11 
games, replaced Jackson and 
scored 15 points in his 31 
minutes on the floor. Sweet's 
performance helped turn what 
had been a close game into an 
85-63 Notre Dame runaway. 
"Daimon Sweet played his 
best game as far as playing 
time and quality playing 
time," said Irish coach Digger 
Phelps. "He did some good 
things that don't show up in the 
box score. When Jamere got 
hurt, Sweet made a lot of things 
happen for us." 
While Sweet's performance 
surprised many observers who 
had not seen him on the court 
yet for an extended period of 
time, it did not catch any of his 
teammates off guard. 
"He's been playing like that 
all year in practice," said Irish 
guard and co-captain Joe 
Fredrick. "It's just a matter of 
confidence. He played well, 
and we'll need him for the big 
games down the stretch." 
Sweet, who is seeing playing time at both guard and for­ward, is emerging as a major factor coming off the Irish bench at about the same time as classmate and fellow Texan Elmer Bennett. 
"I think Sweet and Bennett 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
clock buzzer. Further, the Irish inside strength took over, as Nowlin and sophomore Krissi Davis each scored nine in the half. 
"We started out well," said McGraw. "But then we just seemed to get lethargic. That one spurt was impressive." 
Simply, Xavier had trouble with the athleticism of the Irish team. Robinson's quickness on the press, Nowlin's strength and finesse inside, Davis' quick hands (five steals) and Com­alita Haysbert's speed on the break combined to run the Lady Musketeers (6-11) back to Ohio. 
Notre Dame, now 11-5 on the season and a perfect 5-0 in the MCC, will host Dayton on Sat­urday at 2:00 p.m. in another MCC contest. 

are getting more confidence as the season goes on," said Phelps. "As freshmen, I think they're doing an outstanding job to add to the back court." 
The two teammates, who both come from the Houston area, are were not exactly strangers before arriving at Notre Dame. 
Bennett, who led the state of Texas in scoring during his junior and senior seasons at Houston Bellaire High, met Sweet at the BCI (Basketball Congress International) All­Star Camp after both players had completed their junior years in high school. That started a friendship between the two players both on and off the court. 
"We'd been playing together on national teams, traveling to­gether and playing with the Greater Houston all-star team," said Sweet. "He (Bennett) was the main influ­ence on my decision to come here." 
Sweet almost went elsewhere for college basketball without even giving Notre Dame a second look. He had verbally committed to Southern Meth­odist and was waiting for his SAT scores to arrive when he decided to start looking at some other schools. 
About that time, the star of Beaumont Central High received a phone call from a friend in Houston. 
"Notre Dame really wasn't interested in me at first," said Sweet. "Elmer called me one night and said, 'Guess what, Notre Dame's interested in you. Coach (John) Shumate said he was going to give you a call this week.' 
"He (Shumate) called, and I was ovwerwhelmed by the fact he did call," Sweet continued. "We arranged a visit to come to the Notre Dame campus I came up one weekend, and I had a pretty nice time. I believe Fr. Malloy was here. I met him, Prof. DeCicco and a couple of other influential people. When I returned ·home, I decided to attend Notre Dame." 
Shumate, the Irish assistant coach last year who recruited Notre Dame's talented five­player freshman class, now is the new head coach at Southern Methodist. Ironically, Sweet's recent progress dates back to last week's 67-45 win over the school he almost attended and the coach who lured him away. 
"It was an emotional game, but I tried not to let it affect me," said Sweet. "I try to put those things aside when I'm playing. If you have a lot of things on your mind when you're playing and worry about anything besides basketball, it tends to mess you up." 
Since that time, Sweet has scored four points in 11 minutes against Syracuse, poured in 15 against Rutgers and even has earned one new nickname. Longtime Notre Dame public address announcer Jack Lloyd has started following Sweet baskets with the call "Nutra­Sweet." 
"People have given me a lot of nicknames, 'Too Sweet,' 'Brown Sugar,' all kinds of stuff," said Sweet, whose last name evidently is easy fodder for people who make up such things. "but I never heard this before." 
If Sweet continues to prog­ress like he has in the last two weeks, Notre Dame fans could be hearing it an awful lot over the next few ears. 
SEAN PENN ROBERT DUVALL 

COIDRS:"'COLORS' does lor the inner city cop what 'PLATOON' did lor the foot soldier in Vietnam....DENNIS HOPPER IS AliENIIJS.. ~ 
-N•chul 'Nl"dved. SNEAK PREVIEWS 
COIDRS:"TWO THUMBS UPr ... the lihn is a REVEIJTION~ 
-Gene Sub\, SlSI:.El & EBUT 
COIDRS:"!Hopper's! fusion ol sociology and action 
moVlemalting is llllGEIIT, HOIIOBABLE and VEBY WY. .. It isn't pretty, but 
you can't keep your eyes off it7 n ... d A ..... NEWSWEEK 
COIDRS:"* * * ....oneolthemost 
GRIPPING FILMS OF THE YEAR ...diamond-sharp perlormances by Robert Duvall and Sean Penn.. ': -M•nhall F1ne. GA.NNEn NF.WSPA.Pi.RS 

A ROeERT H SOW PRODUCTION A D£NNJS HOPP£R FILM SEAN PENN ROBEI1'T DUVALL 
TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 7:30, 9:45 



The Observer I E.G. Bailey 

Freshman Dalmon Sweet came off the bench Tuesday against Rut­gers to score 15 points and help the Irish to victory. Steve Megargee details Sweet'll performance at left. 
There could be rain & cold anywhere else... 
~~ 
~.~ 
frn([ffi)~ 
FROM$319 
includes8 
* 
r-t airfare, r-t transfers 

* 
7 nites hotel accomodations 

* 
beach parties 

* 
3-hr sunset cruise 


* more! ACT NOW! ACT FAST 
CALL JEFF X3580 -American Travel Campus rep. 


Friday, January 27, 1989 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 31 Needlefish 
32 Bedstaff 5 Praline 36 La's lead-in component 
1 More's the pityl 
37 He arouses a 10-morgana woman's fury 14 Bombay bigwig 40 O'Neill 
15 Bouquet monogram 16 Monumental 41 Egyptian king 17 Almost 
43 Egg Comb. 
simultaneously 
form 20 Circle measure 44 Endmg with nor' 21 Magistrate in or sou' 
ancient Rome 
46 -throat
22 Lawyer's thing 48 Actress Spacek
23 Laughed like a groupie 49 Coal miners 25 First name of a 52-Paul Wharton man Kruger. 28 Palette color Transvaal leader 29 Hellkites 53 Zones 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

7:30-8:00 a.m. Open Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
8:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. College of Business Administration Workshops on Diversity Awareness with Dr. Badi Foster, Center for Continuing Education. To register, call 239-6858. 4:30p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Instanton Homology," by Ron Fintushel, Michigan State University Room 226, Com­(}'Math Building ' 
7:30 
p.m. ND Hockey vs. Canisius, Ice Arena 

7:30 
and 9:45 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film, "Colors," Annenberg Auditorium 


8:00 p.m. John M. Duggan Performing Arts Series Presents the Lark Quartet, O'Laughlin Auditorium. For tickets call 284-4626. 
SATURDAY 
8:00 a.m. -3:00 p.m. Graduate Management Admission Test, .lj:ngineering Auditorium 
1:00 p.m. SMC Swimming and Diving vs. University of Chicago, Rockne Memorial 
2:00 p.m. NDW Basketball vs. Dayton, JACC 
7:30 p.m. ND Hockey vs. Canisius, Ice Arena 
SUNDAY . 
11 a.m. Misa en Espanol, Farley Hall Chapel 
4:00 p.m. NDM Basketball vs. Temple, JACC 
6:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns, Urban Plunge Meeting, 

54" . lay like-­taking his rest"· Wolfe 
58 How a cookie crumbles, with "the" 
61 Novel or sermon ending 
62 Clean or spotless, in Caen 
63-Seton. "My Theodosia" author 
64 Woodland creature 65 One of the 12 tribes of Israel 66 Grating sound 
DOWN 
1 Nickname of a 
famous Greek 2 Catch a carp 3 Oppositionist 4 Resembling part 

of Africa 5 Bullfighters' maneuvers 13 Felt pity for 33 TV's "-Make 51 Philippine a Deal" invasion point: 
6 Part of Q.E.D 18 Corrects a text 7 Tackle a 
34 Mellows 194419 Network in one's 
problem 35 Loyalist of '76 52 Judge's
body &"An-­38 Intimidates, in a demand 
24-over
Tragedy"· way 55 Stud stake 
(forsook)

Dreiser 39 Soak in again 56 O'Neill's 
25 Newts
9Collar 42 "It-than you daughter 10 Tributaries 26 Item kicked by think" 
57 B &0 , C &0., 
some motorists

11 Hardy's "-of 45 Resembling etc Blue Eyes" 27 The cops, to 47 Rinehart book 59 Alfonso XIII'S hoods 49 Aped a crow queen role 30 Orchestrate 50 Take the podium so Blockhead 
Library Auditorium 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Fried Clam Rolls Fish Nuggets Bourbon Baked Ham Apple Pancakes with toppings 
Saint Mary's 
Fish Parisienne Beef Tacos Vegetable Kabobs Deli Bar 
COMICS . 
Bloom County 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Jerks 
IN ~l_:,t'ON~L ru ACCu:.,l­nON~. TH/\T WC Af.:C Ill •\fill cMPrY CIII\RAC TEKS, wr ' 
HAVE f\E llfA~SE[) '' ulrLt 50NG AND !>IlNCE I'!OUrtNC 
()It,("))' NAM£ IS t<.EV, 1\Nll l'M :,o WILD, 
I. I'IJLLUI DFF SANTA's BU\RO WilEN r 'WI\S A CHILD/ 
Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 
QH. MY FRIENDS CALL M£ 
~ 
Mll:> 50 DO MY ENEMIES, THE. Y'R.E NOT f ONCE fiLLED MY TUB 
BUYING THIS fl.WW... 
WITH RABID SEA 1\NE/10 
AT ALL, MO.~
J 
n 


STUDENT UNION  BOARD  Presents ...  
Cushing Movie Series  All Shows 8 and 1 0 pm  
Friday  Saturday  
The  Terminator  The  Untouchables  

Coming February 24 --The first All-Campus SYRI! Watch for details ... 





Temple, however, comes into this year as opposing defenses plays Temple at 4 p.m. Sunday. 
A look at the sports department mailbox
) . 

-
The yams that we ate were so sweet, Frank Stams got his fill eating Peete. The papers they talked up the Heisman, Now, where are aU of those wisemen? 
--exerpt from "Ode to Rodney" 
Mike Harmon, Class of 1988 
No, Harmon's poem will never make the up­dated version of "Wake up the Echoes" as a legacy to Notre Dame's 1988 championship football season. It didn't even make The Observer, until now. 
In fact, it might soon be on its way to a trash can across the office--just another balled up piece of paper with three-point potential for a procras­tinating sports writer. 
But before anything gets cleaned up around here, some of the mail we've smiled at, shown to our friends and filed away deserves to be honored in print. Here it is, live and (mostly) uncensored: 
An Ode to Old Mail: 
It has been a great year for poetry. Besides Harmon's masterpiece, we received a work en­titled "Fulfilling the Gipper's Wildest Dream (A Tribute to Ronald Reagan)," from a Brookfield, Conn., man named E.J. White. 
It ends: 
He led his country, yard by yard, 
Into the end zone, battle-scarred, 
Sports 
Friday, January 27, 1989 

Irish break up Musketeers 
Freshman Nowlin keys victory with 17 points, 10 boards 

By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team followed the lead of freshman Margaret

1; 
Nowlin and cruised to a 66-52 conference victory over Xavier last night at the Joyce ACC. 
Nowlin, whose playing time

' 
has increased dramaticallyll' since senior captain Heidi I Bunek's season ended with a knee injury, poured in 17 points and grabbed 10 rebounds in the best performance of her short college career. The 6-1 center was averaging 2.5 points and 
2.5 rebounds entering the game. 
"She missed 10 days early with an ankle injury and then she had mono," noted Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "Now, with Heidi leaving, she's really coming into her own." 

; The Irish put the game away 
! : Karen Robinson (with ball) looks for the shot In Notre Dame's win with a 10-4 run to start the over the Xavier lady Musketeers at the Joyce ACC last night. Tim second half. Nowlin and soph-Sullivan details the action at right.
lj( ' i 
II ll ,,. Owls invade the Irish roost 
)\ 
li By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
jl; 
When the Notre Dame bas­the game nearly as green, are keying on him, but he still starting one freshman, three worries the Irish. sophomores and one senior. "I think we'll have to rotate 
One of the sophomores is people on Macon," Phelps said. Mark Macon, who helped lead "I don't think one guy can play the Owls to a 32-4 record, a No.1 him. I think he's proven ranking and a Final Eight ap-already that he's one of the pearance last season. But three premier guards in the country. key players from that team are I thought (Syracuse star) Sher-gone, so Macon and senior man Douglas was an example Mike Vreeswyk have had to of a guard just dominating a pick up the slack. game (in Notre Dame's 99-87 
loss to the Orangemen). That's 
Macon, a 6-5, 185-pound what Macon did last year and 
guard, is averaging 20.3 points that's what he does in big 
per game, shooting 42 percent games this year."
from the field and shooting 28-Vreeswyk, the only senior in 
of-80 from behing the three­the starting lineup for John 
point line. As a freshman, he Chaney's Owls, is second on the 
was named second team All­team with an 18.1 scoring
America by the Associated average. Temple, at 9-6, is not 
Press and was the Atlantic 10 racking up the victories the 
Freshman of the Year. way it did last season, but that 
Macon is feeling the pressure 
see OWLS, page 17 
And then he grinned and waved his arm And left the field with "winning" charm. 
"Let's win one for the Gipper, boys!" Cried Rockne, once, above the noise; Let's win another for the man Who finished whaf the first began. 

Much better than Harmon's in rhyme, meter and all those other poetry terms you learned in high school, but we like the humor, intentional or not, of "Ode to Rodney" a little better. 
Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 


We also received mail from the Gipper himself during football season, straight from the steps of Washington Hall. That's right, the real one. Or at least his ghost. He's probably almost as old as our former President by now. 
George (he said I could call him that) had been reading Irish Extra on Fridays and had noticed how incompetent The Observer's "Peerless Prog­nosticators" were at beating the point spread on college football games. He wanted a chance to be omore Karen Robinson each scored a pair of buckets in the spurt, which led to a Musketeer time-out. Notre Dame ex­tended that 17-point lead to as many as 21 during the half, before McGraw began sub­stituting liberally. 
Senior guard Lisa Kuhns put an exclamation mark on the second half with three long­range bombs to go along with two others in the first half. Her 5-7 shooting combined with Nowlin's 7-10 helped the Irish to a .560 shooting mark for the game. 
The Irish seemed to grab con­trol of the game from the opening tap, though they held only a four point lead with as little as 4 : 30 remaining in the first half. Robinson, who was celebrating her 20th birthday, combined her fast-paced floor leadership a11d flashy passing with Nowlin's power game to keep the Irish in the lead. 
But Xavier continued to stay 

Irish freshman Elmer Bennett will play a big role In Sunday's game against the Temple Owls as he and fellow freshman Dalmon Sweet help the Irish through an Injury to Jamere Jackson. Notre Dame 
the "Guest Celebrity," and said we could leave the list of games outside his Washington Hall home. 
Remembering that Gipp was quite a gambler in his day, we decided we couldn't stand being humiliated by another celebrity. We had Elvis Presley pick the games instead, and the King was 5-8-1. He only beat us by a few games. 
Some even send photos. Two were shots of cus­tomized license plates that included the word "IRISH" in some form or another. Talk about radi­cal. 
But by the time you read this (assuming you've made it this far), many of these memories will be gone. All but "Ode to Rodney," which we're keeping for inspirational purposes. 
I guess Peete got caught up in all the hoopla And forgot his teammate wasn't Smagala. 
What a gem. 
PICK OF THE WEEK: This week's pick is not a game, but a name. Help ban the Joyce ACC public address announcer's "Nutraaaaa Sweet" by com­ing up with a less foolish nickname for Irish fresh­man Daimon Sweet. There's got to be something better. Write or call The Observer sports depart­ment with your suggestion and we'll put it to a vote. 
close, despite a pesky Irish press and an aggressive 2-3 zone. The Lady Musketeers boasted the MCC Player of the Week in Kelly Benintendi and the MCC three-point percentage leader in Kim Blan­ton, but it was a third guard, senior Kerry Durham, who kept Xavier close with six first half points from the outside, key passes, and tough defense. 
"We were keying on 20 (Benintendi) and 3 (Blanton)," said McGraw, "and the other girl <Durham) wound up hur­ting us. It was kind of our (the coaches) fault." 
After a 6-0 Lady Musketeer run to close the score to 24-20 Irish and an Irish time-out, Notre Dame finished the half strongly for a 35-24 lead. The run highlighted a number of Irish strengths in the game. Xavier was consistently forced to rush shots at the 30-second 
see IRISH, page 18 
Tile Observer I E.G. Bailey 

\{ I 
t
,I I! 
1: .. 
ketball team faces the Temple Owls Sunday afternoon, it will be another in a series of "big games" for the Irish. 
"I think we're fortunate enough to be able to schedule power games," Irish head co­ach Digger Phelps said. "That gives us an opportunity to take this young team and let them play people, let them get used to what it's going to be like for them come March." 
Playing teams like the Owls is like training camp for the young Irish, who probably will start two freshmen, one sopho­more and two juniors when the game gets underway at 4 p.m. 



