
VOL. XXII, NO. 110 MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1989 : ~ _ /· . THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S _ 

Smoke covering Beirut 
Black smoke continues to ascend over the Lebanese Capital, from the exploded gas and fuel tanks at Dora's depot in Christian east Beirut, Friday. The tanks were hit during fierce artillery duels earlier this week between Christian units of the Lebanese army and Syrian gunners. At least 50,000 people have evacuated the area around the fuel depot. Story page 6. 

Soph. Sibs Weekend nixed 
By ALISON COCKS 
News Staff 
The 1989 Sophomore Sibs Weekend will not be held, ac­cording to Sophomore Class President Rob Pasin. 
The decision was based on financial considerations, said Pasin. "Typically, it is an event that runs into a lot of debt." 
Traditionally, Sophomore Sibs Weekend provides an op­portunity for students in ,the sophomore class to bring younger brothers and sisters to the campus and introduce them to the traditions of Notre Dame. Activities in recent years have included movies, a brunch, and a Casino Night. 
This year's Sophomore Sibs Weekend had been tentatively scheduled for the weekend of April 21, although this had not yet been approved by the Office 
· of Student Activities. 
Class president Rob Pasin said that the cancellation of this year's event would not 
CHANGING OF THE GUARD 
Doyle looks back on 'successful' year 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Editor's note: This is the first of a two-part series. 
"The past year in student government has been suc­cessful," said former Stu­dent Body President Tom Doyle, and despite disap­pointments, if given the chance, he would do it "all over again, in the same way." 
Doyle said he believes that he and Mike Paese, former student body vice president, have mostly succeeded in their original campaign promises of improving both intellectual life and improv­ing student services. 
"We made a big push in the direction of intellectual life," said Doyle. "We felt that a committment to intel­lectual life wasn't there, and we tried to change that." 
The well-publicized Iceberg Debates and Hiler­Ward debate were only a few of the events that student government worked on during the course of the past year to promote intellectual life. 

"We at student govern­ment worked with other or­ganizations to get events like the Hiler-Ward debate on campus for the students," said Doyle. "It was a real credit to those who worked on it." 
Student government cooperated with organiza­tions like the Student Union Board to bring guests like Michael Pozner and Bruce Babbit to campus, according to Doyle. "People like these come to campus with a di­versity of opinions and speak on them, which is yet another way to expand the intellectual life on campus." 
"Voter registration was another major project of ours. We disseminated infor­mation on the elections last fall, put up posters, and en-
see DOYLE I page 4 

prevent it from occurring in years to come. "It's something that has to be planned from the beginning of the year. Someone needs to be working on it from the start," Pasin said. 
When asked if it might be possible to schedule a similar event in the coming year for the junior class, Pasin replied, "It's a possibility. We thought since we couldn't do it this year maybe we could next year. I'm 
see SIBS I page 4 



40 guerrillas killed in Namibia 
Associated Press 
WINDHOEK, Namibia-Ter­ritorial police reported killing more than 40 guerrillas Sunday in widespread fighting that shattered a cease-fire and threatened to derail Namibia's day-old transition to indepen­dence from South Africa. 
South Africa accused the rebel South-West African People's Organization of launching the attacks, but SWAPO said its guerrillas were defending themselves. 
Since late Friday, the eve of the truce, more than 80 guer­rillas and four policemen have been killed, according to offi­cials from South Africa, which agreed to give up control of Namibia under a U.N.­monitored process that began Saturday. 

Namibian police said fight­ing continued into Sunday eve­ning, with more than 30 con­frontations during the day, but no details about the encounters were released. A police spokes­man, Kierie du Rand, said 44 guerrillas were killed Sunday and that the toll probably had risen past 50. 
Thirty-six guerrillas were re­ported killed in clashes late Friday. 
see GUERRILLAS I page 5 

Einloth is named this year's valedictorian 
By MAURA KRAUSE 
Staff Reporter 
Brian Einloth, an electrical engineering major, has been chosen valedictorian after maintaining a 3.992 GPA through seven semesters. 
Einloth's only blotch was a "B" that he received in a one­credit lab course his freshman year, he said. 
Einloth, a native of Pit­tsburgh, described being cho­sen valedictorian as a "great honor. You can't possibly fig­ure as a freshman that you can attain this honor. You don't think about it until it happens." 
"Being valedictorian is hard to talk about in a way because I've done the best I could. If I hadn't done as well, I'd be just as satisfied," Einloth said. 

"I really haven't felt I've had to sacrifice much. If anything I sacrificed sleep; a few times I got up early before a football game or held strange study hours," said Einloth. 
For Einloth, being valedic­torian is, "a great responsibil­ity. In giving the address I want to say something that will hit home with the other graduating seniors." 
Einloth will be working as an engineer for Delco Electronics Corp. in Kokomo, Ind. where he has interned for the past two summers. He also plans to "pursue an MBA at Harvard University, but Harvard re­quires job experience so they've preserved a spot in the class of '92 for me," said Ein­loth. 
The three highest ranking graduating seniors in each Col­lege of the University have also been named. 
In the College of Arts andlet­ters, these students are Karen Dwyer, an English major from Naples, Fla.; Theresa Rice, a modern languages and medieval studies major from Mishawaka; and Christopher Barker, an economics and computer applications major from Salem, Ore. 
In the college of Business Ad­ministration the highest ranking students are Michael Lawler, an accounting major from Jacksonville, Ill. ; Michael Collins, a finance major from Lancaster, N.Y.; and Charles Sacher, a management major from Miami, Fla. 
For Lawler, achieving such a high ranking called for, "a lot of hard work in the after­noons and late nights. 
. Howevel', I never let it cut into my social life. It's a nice honor; it's not something I worked at but I'm glad it happened. I 
see GPA I page 5 


page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 
A train collision killed six and critically injured more than 100 in a Sunday crash in the town of Damanhour, 75 miles north of Cairo, Egypt. A passenger train collided head-on with a trian carrying fuel oil, police said. Police sources, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity, said the collision caused a fire that burned the six to death. · · 
Named "Papa Cocaine" by the Italian media, 38-year-old Antonio Lancia has been sentenced to five years under house arrest and fined nearly $9,000 for giving cocaine to his girlfriend's 4-year-old son, news reports said. Lancia was arrested last spring after Daniela Tirelli told police he had abused her and forced her son, Stefano, as well as his own 5-year-old son to use cocaine. Investigators found traces of drugs in Stefano's scalp. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Four bodies were pulled from the Hatchie River after a 50-year-old U.S. highway bridge collapsed 45 miles north of Memphis, Tenn. At least seven people died when the bridge over 
U.S. highway 51 collapsed. The search for more victims continued but was hampered by bridge debris and muddy waters, said state Highway Patrol Lt. Larry Durham. The cause of the collapse was unknown. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
A South Bend man was found dead in his apartment Saturday, St. Joseph County police said Sunday. A county police officer found the body of Robert Gibson, 66, on Saturday. He had apparently died of a gunshot wound to the head and massive bleeding, police said. 
Jonathon Pollard is receiving $5,000 a month from Israel, according to the April 10 issue of Newsweek magazine. The former South Bend resident is currently serving a life sentence in federal prison in Illinois for stealing U.S. secrets for Israel. Each month $5,000 is put in an Israeli bank account for the former 
U.S. intelligence analyst, according to the article. 
Two men escaped from the Steuben County jail in the northeast corner of Indiana before noon Saturday. Still at large is James Mizner, 21, of Jackson, Mich., who was awaiting trial on armed robbery charges. He was described as white, 5-feet-11, 150 pounds, with a slender build, green eyes, collar-length brown hair anc\ a moustache. Search dogs lost his scent about 1: 15 a.m. Sunday some four miles south of Angola, Ind. It was not known whether he was armed, said dispatcher Cindy Snyder. An Ohio man who escaped with Mizner, 19-year-old Randy Bowen, was captured about 10 p.m. Saturday. Bowen was awaiting trial on burglary and theft charges. 
Giraffe Evie died Sunday morning in Evansville's Mesker Park Zoo some 11 hours after falling flat on her side, officials said. The 8-year-old female giraffe was taken to Purdue Univer­sity in West Lafayette for an autopsy, Grannon said. 
WEATHER 

Afternoon showers? 
Variable cloudiness and mild today with a 50 percent chance of afternoon thunderstorms. High in the upper 50s. Mild tonight with a 50 percent chance of thun­derstorms. Low in the low 40s. Mild Tuesday with a 30 percent chance of thunderstorms and highs in the 
upper 50s. 

ALMANAC 
On April 3: e In 1860: The legendary Pony Express began service between St. 
Joseph, Mo., and Sacramento, Calif. The service would last for only 1 and 1/2 years before giving way to the 
The Observer Monday, April 3, 1989 
Censorship assumes 
•

many gu1ses 
Censorship is a dirty word. 

One of the principles upon which the United States was founded is embodied in the First Amendment to the Consititution. "Congress shall make no law...abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press ..." 
The history of America has been one remarkably free of infringement on the freedom of the press. The Supreme Court has drawn the line over which the government can­not cross in this area. 
Freedom of the press has brought many benefits to the country. Some are major: the disclosure of Watergate and Iran-Contra; the uncovering of the Gary HartDonna Rice affair; and the Pentagon Papers, among others. 
Freedom of the press has also allowed the media to influence public policy to a degree never expected by the Founding Fathers. The advent of television news, aside from dramati­cally altering other forms of media, directly affected the United States' policy in Vietnam. TV serves to weed out presidential candidates; in order to have a chance, a candidate must pass the test of the media. 
Whether one considers these effects good or bad, freedom of the press has greatly opened up the flow of information in American society. The media's freedom has encouraged the greatest development of democracy possible. 
The Consitution's freedom of the press refers to government censorship and infringement. This type of censorship was the one most press­ing to the Founding Fathers; it was, and is, present in many of the countries of the world. 
However, there exist other forms of infringe­ment of the press's freedom. One type is par­ticularly important here, at Notre Dame. The University administration exercises a particu­lar type of censorship, not based on the ability to threaten the editorial copy of a media source, but rather based upon an economic threat to a newspaper. 
The Observer is a particularly good example of this, but is not alone among campus publica­tions. Readers of The Observer might have noticed that, in the past year, no advertise-
OF INTEREST 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for Friday, March 31 1 1989 
Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 
+12.28 
Closed at 2293.62 


LaFortune recruitment night for student applicants has been changed to Tuesday, March 4, from 7 to 8 p.m. in the Dooly Room, LaFor­tune Student Center. Applications are available in the Student Activities Office in room 315 LaFortune. The application deadline is April 14. 
Visions the fourth number of the English Department-sponsored student fiction maga­zine, is soliciting manuscripts for its 1989 edi­tion. Please submit two copies with the authors name on a removable first page to the English Department, room 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall, by 4 p.m. Tuesday. Questions can be directed to Professor O'Rourke, Department of English. 
Adult Children of Alcoholics will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Con­cerns. Meetings will now be held every Monday night until graduation. 
University Counseling Center is offering the first of two sessions of the Careeli Major Decision Making workshop on Monday through Thursday, April 3-6 from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. at the University Counseling Center, room 300. No pre-registration is necessary. The second ses­sion will be offered several evenings next week. 
Artists needed for decorating the Homeless shelter. Anyone interested should contact Step­hanie McNeill at 283-~814 as soon as possible. 

'The University 
administration 
exercises a particular type of censorship.' 
Matt Gallagher 
Exec. News Editor 

ments for alcohol have been on the pages of this paper. 
This was a result of a University Task Force report last fall. The report suggested, and the University decided, that no alcohol advertise­ments should run in campus publications. 
It is true: this decision does not inhibit The Observer's editorial freedom; the paper can print anything it wants in its written copy, but not in its advertisements. The administration is not editing the copy of the paper, saying what can and cannot run. 
The administration is, however, making a decision which directly affects what appears on the pages of The Observer. The Observer is not "The independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." It's independence is not total; control is exercised. 
The University exercises a very real control over campus publications in one important respect: as a private university, the adminis­tration can prohibit distribution of publications on campus. In other words, a campus media source's freedom to print what it wants is lim­ited by the University's freedom to ban that publication from campus. 
I do not mean to suggest that the University has ever suggested such a course of action; to my knowledge, it has not. However, it is a very real threat. 
Matt Gallagher is a junior Government!PPE major and Executive News Editor of The Ob­server. 
Perspectives on women's health and community resources will be discussed at a brown bag lunch Tuesday, April 14, at 12:15 
p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. Mary Roemer from South Bend's Omni Center, and Carol Seager, director of Notre Dame Health Services, will present information and answer questions. 
Technical Review staff is now accepting applications for assistant managing editor. Leave your name in the Engineering Student Center by Tuesday, April 5. 
The Dome is now accepting applications for the 1989-90 Yearbook staff. All positions, includ­ing sections editors, assistant editors, and photographers are open. Applications are avail­able in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, and are due by Friday, April 7. 
All Juniors should sign up for the senior portraits April 3-7 during lunch hours at the dining halls. Photos will be taken AprillO and 11. 
American Values' American Film: an exploration of contemporary ethical issues. Events include a showing of Cocktail, a Martin Sheen lecture April 4 at 8 p.m. in the Enginee­ring Auditorium, and a panel discussion with Gene Siskel on April 6 at 7 p.m. Tickets are available at the LaFortune information desk. 
transcontinental telegraph. e In 1882: the notorious outlaw Jesse James was shot to death in St. 
Joseph, Mo., by Robert Ford, a member of his own gang. 
e In 1982: Britain dispatched a large naval task force to the south At­lantic to reclaim the disputed Falkland Islands, which had been seized by Ar­gentina. 
e Ten years ago: Jane Byrne was elected mayor of Chicago, becom­ing the first woman chosen for the post 
Currency exchange 
Mark • to 1.8975 OM I $ 
Yen +to 132.80¥1$ 
Precious Metals Gold + $2.90 to $385.1 0 I oz. Silver + 4.3¢ to $5.823 1oz. 

Design Editor . . . . . . . . . . . Mark McLaughlin Design Assistants ............... Alison Cocks ....................................... Matt Gallagher . .......................................... Sara Marley Typesetters ........................ Andy Schlidt ............................................. Chris Malin 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 News Editor ........................ Greg Lucas Copy Editor ...................... Sarah Voight Sports Copy Editor ............. Greg Guffey 
(219) 239-7471 
Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Kelly Golden VIewpoint Layout ............... Kerri Owens Accent Editor ............... Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor .......... Paige Smoron 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepl Accent Designers .............. Alison Cocks ....................................... Matt Gallagher 
during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
Typists....... .................... Will Zamer
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­
........................................ Diana Bradley 
chased for $40 oer year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 

ND Day Editor ................... Katie Gugle The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights SMC Day Editor .......... Rozel Gatmaitan 
are reserved. 

Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 

The Groove takes first place in Nazz band competition 

AP Photo

Watching Bush pitch 
Various governors and others watch as President Bush pitches a horseshoe at the new pits on the White House lawn Saturday. From left are, Bush; Alabama Gov. Guy Hunt; South Carolina Gov. Carroll Campbell; Donald Titcomb; Maine Gov. John McKernan Jr.; Nebraska Gov. Kay Orr; Phyllis Negaard; and Michigan Gov. James Blanchard. 
Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW I683-1959] 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS •APPROX 2lf2.MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX tOO NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST UTILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 
ATTENTION JUNIORSII 
Sign-ups for your 
SENIOR PORTAITS 
will be held April 3,4,5,6, 7 Lunch hours at both North and South Dining Halls 
Photos To Be Taken AprillO,ll 
Student Union Board. band member Dave Geist. 
Over 100 participants in the The Nazz Competition is 16 bands took part and approx­named after a twenty-four hour imately 200 to 300 listeners at­lounge called the N azz which 
tended the Stepan Center was located in the basement of event. "It went very well and LaFortune Student Center. It the sound people did a good job was closed by the administra­considering the fact that there tion when LaFortune was were sixteen bands, " said remodeled, said Ford. "SUB 
Investigators say captain of Exxon Valdez admits drinking at mishap 
Associated Press 
VALDEZ, Alaska-The captain of the Exxon Valdez admitted drinking on board the tanker before it rammed a reef, investigators allege. 
When the first investigator on the scene of the nation's worst-ever oil spill boarded the vessel and asked Capt. Joseph Hazelwood what the problem was, he replied, "I think you're looking at it," according to court docu­
~----~~--~~~~~~. 

ND China summer program cancelled 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Senior Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame summer program in Tianjin, China has been cancelled for this summer due to low enrollment. 
Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of the foreign study program, said that the eight week program has been in place for five years and that this is the first time that it has been cancelled. 
"I was surprised, but the trip has been questionable other years," said Charles. She said that the $3,000 cost of the pro­gram, while not exorbitant, may have been contributed to the low enrollment. 
Another factor in the low en­rollment may have been that students are not interested in going so far away, said Charles. She did say that 5!l stu­
ments. 
The documents were filed in support of an arrest war­rant issued for the captain Friday on state mis­demeanor charges of oper­ating a ship while under the influence of alcohol, reck­less endangerment and negligent discharge of oil. 
Hazelwood remained at large Sunday as inves­tigators continued to look for the cause of the spill, which now covers size dents have travelled to China on the program over the past five summers. 

The program consists of six weeks of intensive language classes at the Tianjin Foreign Language Institute including lectures and tours that pertain to the Chinese culture, said Charles. 
The final ten days consist of rail and air travel to Hong Kong and other points of inter­est in China, said Charles. The students earn six credit hours for this program. 
She said that cancelling the program did not cost anything to the students who did sign up or to the University. 
The two faculty members who normally accompany the students are Dian Murray, as­sociate professor of history and Peter Moody, director of the Asian studies program. 
decided to name the event after the Nazz because musicians used to hang out and perform there," he said. 
Catholics in Bad Standing took second place, Mter Hours third, Dead Horse fourth, and Boathouse Blues Band placed fifth. 
of Rhode Island. 
The animal-rescue effort quickened as authorities kept an eye on a plume of oil headed for salmon fisheries and a national park more than 100 miles southwest of the accident site in once­pristine Prince William Sound. 
Scientists and fishermen brought in oil-smeared ot­ters in everything from air­line dog cages to boxes hur­riedly hammered together from plywood and chicken wire. A refrigerated trailer truck served as a morgue for dead otters and birds . 
An estimated 10.1 million 
gallons spilled in the March 
24 disaster and now cover 
parts of more than 1,000 
square miles. 
The captain lives in Hunt­
ington, N.Y. Peter Kelly, a 
spokesman for the Suffolk 
County, N.Y., police, said on 
Sunday, "We don't even 
know if he's in the state or 
not. He could be in Alaska 
or anywhere." 
Mfidavits filed in court 
said one of the first inves­
tigators to board the tanker, 
state Trooper Michael Fox, 
asked Hazelwood, 42, what 
the problem was. The cap­
tain replied, "I think you're 
looking at it," the court 
papers said. 
The documents also said a prosecutor in Valdez, Leonard Linton, reported that the captain admitted he had been drinking on board the tanker before it went aground. 
Hazelwood, the statement said, told troopers he had "one beer" in Valdez before going aboard. 
Exxon officials said the company would not com­ment on the crew's actions. 
By JEFF SWANSON Staff Reporter 
The Groove took first place in the Nazz band competition held on March 18. The sixteen campus bands in the competi­tion were judged on their en­thusiasm, musical ability, and stage presence. 
The annual Nazz competition was judged by sound engineers hired for the event. "The sound people were chosen to judge the event because we felt that they would be the most objective," said Mike Ford, musical enter­tainment commissioner for 

~age 4 The Observer 
AP Photo

Pulitzer Prize photo 
Ron Olshwanger, an amateur photographer in St. Louis, MO., poses with his 1989 Pulitzer Prize winning photo in the newsroom of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch building. The photo, which won in the spot news category, shows a St. Louis firefighter resusitating a 2-year-old girl. The photo ran in the Post-Dispatch 
Dec. 31, 1988. 
Doyle 
continued from page 1 
couraged students to vote." 
"We got over 2000 students registered, so I think that we were pretty successful in that respect," Doyle said. 
In respect to student ser­vices, Doyle stated that he and Paese made many steps in a positive direction. 
"For example, student gov­ernment got the 24-hour lounge started, and although it did not remain open, we have gotten the Administration to realize that it is a legitimate student need. This can only help things in the future," Doyle said. 
"The Board of Trustee Reports were also an impor­tant step," said Doyle. "The reports dealt with aspects of student life like co-ed housing, transportation, and campus so­cial life. The recommendations they made were designed to aid in the areas of student life were change is needed." 
"We also laid groundwork in the way the reports are made and dealt with," said Doyle. "Constant contact was main­tained with the Board of Trus­tees while the reports were being compiled, and we also received assurance from the Office of Student Affairs that they would follow up on the reports.'' 
Student government had a 
Sibs 
continued from page 1 
sure it wouldn't be a problem." 
This is not the first time prob­lems with the event have oc­curred. It was reinstituted by former class president Pat Cooke for the 1986-87 school year after it had been perma­nently cancelled, several years before, largely due to problems with drinking on the part of some of the siblings, said Pasin. 
The class of 1989 was permit­ted to hold the event, for that year only, with increased re­strictions placed to curtail similar problems. An age restriction was imposed, allow­ing only siblings between the ages of 10 and 15 to participate, and they were also required to check in at the dorms each night. 
"We didn't forsee a problem because last year it went so well," said Pasin. 
good relationship with the Uni­slowly things moved," Doyle versity Administration, said said. "You want instant results Doyle, which helped facilitate all the time but have to realize the goals that student govern­that things don't happen that ment had. fast.'' "Of course we disagreed with 
the Administration at times, but they were worked out in an orderly and cooperative man­
American 
ner," said Doyle. 
Red Cross

"The most frustrating thing about the past year was how 
Be a volunteer. 

ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
Tuesday April 4, 1989 Wednesday April 5, 1989 
Between 9:00 -4:00 at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Monday, April 3, 1989 

Haitian gov't. foils attempted coup 
Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti­The government said it foiled an attempt by rebel army offi­cers Sunday to overthrow Lt. Gen. Prosper Avril. U.S. offi­cials said loyal soldiers ap­parently rescued Avril as he was being driven away to be deported. 
A government communique read over state-run television said "certain officers be­sieged" the palace "and at­tempted to overthrow the gov­ernment." 
Earlier, sources in Haiti said military commanders had ousted the 6-month-old govern­ment. It would have been the third coup in this Caribbean country in less than a year. 
The communique did not ex­plain how the plot was suppressed but said "Lt. Gen. Prosper Avril is in control of the situation and guarantees peace in the streets and the se­curity of life and property." 
It said he would address the nation on television later. 
U.S. embassy spokeswoman Susan Clyde said reports indi­cated the coup attempt oc­curred about 4 or 5 a.m. and that Avril was detained for a time. 
"But it appears that when he was being taken to the airport to be deported . . . members of the presidential guard arrived at the airport and escorted him back to the palace to be presi­dent again," she said in a tele­phone interview from Port-au­Prince. 
She said there was ap­parently no bloodshed during the ouster attempt and that the city was calm. 
There was no word on the fate of the coup leaders, who included the army commander-in-chief, Maj. Gen. Herard Abraham. The at­tempt came four days after the discharge of four top army of­ficers accused of drug traffick­ing. 
In Washington, State Depar­tment spokesman Dennis Harter said the situation in Haiti "remains fluid." 

STUDENT BUSINESS BOARD 
is now taking applications for 
ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER 
Requirements: 

• 
Sophomore or Junior Business Major 

• 
Available 10-15 hours per week 


Responsibilities: 

• 
Assist the Gen. Manager in overseeing the operation of Irish Gardens, The Cellar, & Adworks 

• 
Perform accounting & financial duties 

• 
Participate in special projects 


Applications available at the Secretary's desk (2nd floor LaFortune). Completed applications due, same place, by Monday, AprillO at 5 pm 
For more information, call: 
Dan @ 239-8040 or Molly@ 283-4976 
Grad Students, 
Professors, 
Employees 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

ln the College of Science,
Duels rock Beirut Sunday 
these high ranking students are
GPA 

Michele Francoeur, a biologi­
continued from page 1

Airport and home of U.S. ambassador are struck 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Shellfire hit Beirut's airport Sunday, and radio reports said the home of the U.S. ambassador was struck during fierce duels be­tween Syrian gunners and Ch­ristian army units. Police re­ported 13 people were killed. 
Thunderous explosions rocked Beirut in what aut­horities called the heaviest ar­tillery duel since renewed fighting in the 14-year-old civil war erupted March 8. 
Syrian and allied Druse gun­ners poured more than 8,000 rounds, at a rate of up to 100 per minute, on east Beirut and the Christian suburbs north­east of the city in 24 hours, a police spokesman said. 
Christian soldiers of army commander Gen::.Michel Aoun struck back with 1'55mm howit­zers, firing at least 3,000 rounds on Syrian positions in Moslem west Beirut, the central moun­tains and east Lebanon's Bekaa valley, the spokesman said. 
He said Christian gunners also blasted the Beirut­Damascus highway in the mountainous Dahr al-Baidar region in an apparent bid to block the way of Syrian tanks poised to roll into Beirut. 
The spokesman, who cannot be named under standing rules, said eight people were killed and 20 wounded in the Christian side and five killed and seven wounded in Moslem west Beirut. 
The confrontation has ex­acerbated a political crisis that created competing Christian and Moslem governments and split the army on sectarian lines. 
"Have mercy on the helpless people," pleaded Acting Prime Minister Salim Hoss, who heads a mostly Moslem Cabinet vying for legitimacy with Aoun's Christian Cabinet. 
"I appeal to all those pulling gun triggers to stop shooting at once, stop this bloodbath, stop this massacre," he said in an appeal broadcast by Moslem radio stations. 
Aoun has declared a "war of liberation" against Syria, which has 40,000 troops in Lebanon and has become the country's main power broker during the civil war. 
Sunday's Moslem fatalities included four soldiers stationed at Beirut airport in south Beirut, which was bombarded by Christian shellfire. Police said fires broke out at the air­port, which was shut down 23 days ago because of the fight­ing. 
Christian-controlled radio 
stations said shellfire struck 
U.S. Ambassador John McCarthy's residence, damaged by a Syrian shell on Tuesday, and the Brazilian Embassy near the presidential palace. But police said they could not confirm the report. 
j 
never sat down and said I want 

Telephone calls to to be first in the class." McCarthy's residence and the Lawler has a job with Peat Brazilian Embassy went un­Marwik and eventually plans to answered. go to graduate school. 
The top ranking seniors in the Throughout Beirut and its College of Engineering are Ein­suburbs, tens of thousands of loth, John Abele, a materialsresidents remained huddled in science and engineering major underground shelters from from Kettering Ohio; Eric Lan­nightfall Saturday, when the ciault, an architecture majorshelling duel started. 

form Sidney, N.Y., and Har­

"I don't care who's fighting tono Sutanto, a chemical engin­who or why," screamed Yolla eering major from Chaker, a Christian. Y~gya~arta, Indonesia. 
cal sciences major from Zep­hyr Cove, Nev., Michael Brad­ley, a preprofessional studies major from Fort Wayne, and Martin Gallagher, a chemistry major from Palos Park, Ill. 
Francoeur, who plans to at­tend medical school at either the University of Nevada or Washington University in St. Louis, said she was "pretty surprised. I had always as­sumed that there was someone higher. I put in a couple of Friday nights, but not very many. You've got to have fun or it's not worth it." 
Swans form a long line as they leave their artificially heated pool when they were released from their winter quarters in Hamburg, West Germany, Thursday. The long-feathered white birds crowd the inland waters here during the summertime. 


is looking for motivated Saint Mary's students interested in serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community in the following paid positions: 
Saint Mary's Editor Asst. Saint Mary's Editor 
Responsible for daily coverage of Saint Mary's events and coordinating Observer staff there Newspaper experience helpful but not required Must commit time to work in Observer offices 
, in Haggar College Center and Lafortune ~For more information please contact Chris Donnelly or Regis Coccia at 239-5303 by Friday, April 7 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
FOR 

LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER STUDENT 
EMPLOYEES 

RECRUITMENT & INFORMATION NIGHT 
TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 7pm-8pm, DOOLEY ROOM, 1ST FLOOR 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE Building Supervisors Information Desk LaFortune Box Office Recreation Room Sound Technicians The present staff will be available April 3 to 
answer any questions for interested students. Applications will be accepted that night. Final application deadline will be APRIL 14. Applications should be returned to the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS All clubs & organizations must now re-register for the 1989-90 academic year. Applications are now available .in the Student Activities Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. Applications include: 
1) Registration Form 
2) Funding Request 
3) Office Space Request 
4) Football Concession Stand Request 
Applications deadline is APRIL 19. 

JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 1990 CHAIRPERSON 
now available in Office of St. Activities. Must be submitted by 5 pm. Friday, April 7th. 
Guerrillas 
continued from page 1 
The territorial army, due to 
be dismantled in mid-May as 
part of a U.N. accord, 
suspended its demobilization 
process Sunday because of the 
fighting and began reassem­
bling some units. 
South African's foreign min­ister, Pik Botha, accused SWAPO of ordering hundreds of insurgents to cross into nor­thern Namibia from Angola in violation of the U.N. agree­ment, which was reached in December. On Saturday, Botha said his government might order the 1,000 U.N. troops in Namibia to leave if it was not satisfied with a U.N. response to the fighting. SWAPO, which has waged a bush war for independence since 1966, accused South Africa of initiating the clashes and said its guerrillas "fired only in self -defense after being hunted down and attacked. "It is the earnest desire of SWAPO to scrupulously ob­serve the terms of the cease­fire agreement," SWAPO said in a statement from its headquarters in Angola. It did not explain why its fighters were inside Namibia. Until Friday, there had been no fighting between South Africa and SWAPO for more than six months as both sides observed an informal truce. SWAPO urged the United Na­tions to deploy more peacekeeping troops to moni­tor the truce "with seriousness and a sense of urgency." Thus 
far, only about 1,000 of the planned 4,650-member U.N. force is in Namibia as the ter­
ritory prepares for elections in November. 

The Observer Monday, April 3, 1989 
pa e 6 
CONSULTING WEEK 
APRIL 2-6, 1989 
AN OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE YOUR LAST MINUTE QUESTIONS ANSWERED BEFORE YOU MUST DECLARE YOUR COLLEGE PROGRAM 
SEE THE APRIL FRESHMAN DEAN'S NEWSLETTER FOR SCHEDULING DETAILS 
DON'T MISS THE OPPORTUNITY 
FRESHMEN 
FRESHMEN 
FRESHMEN 


AP Photo 

An Aeroflot crew walks past a huge portrait of Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev at the Jose Marti International Airport Saturday in Havana. This will be one of the first things Gorbachev will see when he arrives in Cuba Sunday on a four day visit with President Fidel Castro. The sign says "Welcome Comrade Mikhail Gorbachev." 
Gorbachev in Cuba to visit Castro 
Associated Press Castro, and the two stood side our own performance," Soviet by side on the tarmac as a mil­spokesman Gennady 
HAVANA-Soviet President itary band played the anthems Gerasimov told ABC-TV in an Mikhail Gorbachev arrived of their two countries. interview from Havana. "We Sunday in Cuba for talks with In Havana, Gorbachev will will exchange views and expe­President Fidel Castro, who hold lengthy discussions with riences." has criticized the Soviet Castro. Castro has criticized leader's new pragmatic brand Gorbachev's pragmatic Gorbachev's two-hour stop to of communism. reforms, and Soviet officials the politically neutral, 
Gorbachev's blue and white have said they may reduce aid staunchly Roman Catholic Aeroflot jetliner touched down in the future to the Caribbean Ireland was the first by a at Havana's airport about 6 nation. Kremlin leader. Itwas Gorbac­
p.m. EDT and was greeted by "We are going to discuss hev's first overseas visit since 
cheering crowds. Fidel Castro's performance, a December trip to the United Gorbachev was met by just as he is going to discuss States. 
FRESHMEN 
FRESHMEN 
Most ex-cons are soon rearrested 
Associated Press homicides, 17,000 robberies, 
36,000 burglaries and 46,000 

WASHINGTON-Nearly 63 drug offenses. percent of the inmates released Before their 1983 release, the from state prisons are rear­inmates averaged more than 12 rested for a serious crime criminal charges each, and al­within 3 years, according to a most two-thirds had served Justice Department study. previous jail or prison sen­
The department's Bureau of tences. The bureau estimated Justice Statistics examined the that the prisoners released in criminal records of more than the 11 states -representing 16,000 men and women who more than half of those were among 109,000 offenders released nationwide-had been released from the prisons of 11 charged with a total of 1.7 mil­states in 1983. lion serious crimes throughout 
It found that by the end of their lifetimes. About 265,000 of 1986, about 62.5 percent of the those were violent crimes. former inmates had been rear­Recidivism rates were high­rested for a felony or serious est for young prisoners and misdemeanor, that 47 percent those with extensive prior 
had been convicted of a new records. An estimated 68 per­crime and 41 percent had been cent of those younger than 25 sent back to prison or jail. at the time of their release 
were rearrested within 3 years, 

Acting Bureau Director compared to 40 percent for 
Joseph Bessette said the report, those 45 or older. Almost 79 per­
released late Sunday, cent of the former inmates with represented ''the most compre­11 or more previous arrests 
hensive and detailed were rearrested in the study recidivism study ever con­period, compared to 38 percent ducted." 
for first-time offenders. 

It tracked the records of A whopping 94 percent of 
people released from prisons in those younger than 25 who had 
California, Florida, Illinois, 11 or more prior arrests were 
Michigan, Minnesota, New Jer­rearrested. 
sey, New York, North Carolina, Recidivism rates were high­
Ohio, Oregon and Texas. est during the first year of 
release, with 25 percent of the 

According to projections former prisoners rearrested 
from the sample-with a margin within 6 months and 40 percent 
of error of plus or minus 1 within 1 year. 
percent-about 68,000 of the Former inmates were fre­
109,000 people released in those quently rearrested for the 
states were rearrested within 3 same offense for which they 
years and charged with 326,000 had been imprisoned in the first 
new crimes, including 2,300 place. 

FRESHMEN 
Monday, April 3, 1989 The Observer page 7 

Concerns 
Box F 

Notre Dame. IN 46556 
219-nlJ-"142 219-239 -5~19 
Ethics investigation of Wright to resume 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The ethics investigation of House Speaker Jim Wright resumes behind closed doors this week as Congress returns from its Easter recess to deal with that touchy matter and some major legislation, including a raise in the minimum wage. 
The House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct is scheduled to resume its private deliberations Tuesday. 
The  12-member  panel  -six  
Democrats  and  six  
Republicans  has  been  

Engineering Auditorium 

Thurs. April 6, 7 pm Engineering Auditorium 
(Tickets at information desk -LaFortune) 
"Modern War and the Christian Conscience" Dr. Gordon Zahn Tuesday, April 4, 4 pm Room 120 Law School 
"The Origins of Nonviolence in India" Michael O'Malley-ND '87 
Wed., April 5, 8 pm Chapel at esc 
" Communalism, Minorities and Nation States in the Middle East" 
Patrick Gaffney, C.S.C. 
Friday, April 7, 12 noon CSC -Friday Forum 
Universit \" of 
Notre Dame 
Mass for Middle East Peace Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
Wed., April 5, 10:30 pm Siegfried 
"Appalachia Women: Organizing in the Mountains" 

Barbara Greene Mountain Women's Exchange, TN Friday, April 7, 4 pm esc 
American Studies, Business Administration, Campus Ministry, CSC, Cummunication and Theater, Educational Media, English, Institute for International Peace Studies, Marketing, Pax Christi, ROTC, Sociology, Student Government, SUB, Women United for Justice and Peace. 

laboriously discussing dozens of areas where its outside coun­sel has found possible rules vi­olations, according to sources familiar with the probe. 
The uncertainty surrounding Wright, and whether he will be able to withstand whatever po­litical damage results from the panel's findings, will likely con­tinue for at least another week; the committee has tentatively scheduled meetings into the 
1
week of April 10. 
~ 

The case, involving charges that Wright abused his office for financial gain, has been in 
1 
the investigation phase since last June. The ethics committee 
1 
spent three weeks hearing pre­1 sentations by its outside coun­1 
1
sel and by Wright's lawyer, and 
1
put in another three days deliberating the charges before the Easter break. 
l 
The committee reportedly has focused most of its atten­tion on a book deal on which Wright made $55,000 in royalties, his use of a Fort Worth condominium at below­market rental rates and his dealings with business partner George Mallick. 
House Republican Whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia said on national television Sunday the House is "going to have a long and difficult spring" and repeated his prediction that Wright will be out as speaker by June. 
But House Majority Leader Thomas Foley, D-Wash., coun­tered that he is confident Wright will be cleared of any wrongdoing. 
Meanwhile, Wright over the weekend denied a report by the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, which quoted an unnamed 
source as saying 100 potential violations were cited in the in­vestigative report. "It is ab­solutely absurd to suggest that I have broken House rules on 100 occasions," Wright said in a letter to the paper. 
In the Senate, lawmakers resume debate Tuesday on legislation that would require President Bush to appoint an emergency board that would have up to 26 days to suggest a way to end the Eastern Airlines strike. 
The measure, favored by or­ganized labor, cleared the House last month with heavy Democratic support. But Bush has threatened to veto the bill, and both sides say it is unlikely to pass by a veto-proof, two­thirds margin. 
The Senate also is scheduled to take up legislation to in­crease the minimum wage, frozen at $3.35 an hour since 1981, to $4.65 over three years. 
The Democrat-backed bill is more generous than a version advanced by Bush, which would peg the new rate at $4.25. The president also wants a lower sub-minimum wage -op­posed by Democrats -which could be paid to employees during their first half-year of work. 
The House passed a compro­mise version two weeks ago that would boost base pay to $4.55 and allow a two-month sub-minimum rate. 
The Observer 

--~-------~--------~-­
Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, April 3, 1989 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-chief Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ......•..... Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ..•.............. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor .......•.............. Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .....•..•.•.•.....•....... John Blasi Systems Manager ......•...... Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Director...............•... Angela Bellanca Controller................••.........• Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor. Executive News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letter:;. is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
No student input is not neighborly 
No amount of student complaining is going to reverse the decision to rezone the Northeast Neigh­borhood. The water passed over the dam in October, 1988, when the ordinance rezoning the area from multi-family to single-family homes was passed. 
Now is not the time for input from the more than 800 Notre Dame students living in the Northeast Neighborhood or for the University to intervene. Stu­dents should have known about the rezoning when it was first proposed, not five months after the fact. 
Laying blame now, however, is not constructive. Let the omissions of the past stand as lessons for the future. The students who live in the Northeast Neigh­borhood should have been aware of rezoning plans. 
Student government and the campus media also should have known about a possible rezoning. The University, which clearly knew about the rezoning, should have notified students about it. 
Notre Dame's Director of Community Relations Jim Roemer said he told Father David Tyson about the rezoning immediately after he learned of the plan. If the matter was important enough for the Office of Student Affairs to know, why weren't students in the Northeast Neighborhood notified? 
The effects of the rezoning will become apparent in a few years, when students will no longer be able to rent houses in the area. The Northeast Neighbor­hood, according to Roemer, wants "a healthy mix, ethnically and demographically." Reading between the lines, the Northeast Neighborhood wants students 
out. But students in the Northeast Neighborhood are partly responsible for their lack of input in the rezon­ing process. The South Bend Tribune, which most area residents read, reported the rezoning plans, though The Observer did not. The University should have told the students but did not. The students should have been more involved in the neighborhood but were not. The moral of the Northeast Neighborhood story is simple: to be heard in your community, take an in­
terest in it. 

DOONESBURY 
BRIAN, WHAT THeY'!?&. JfT 6f3N­f/05PITAL AR/3 fi?AL. 7Hf3?E'R& 
TH05e [}(3AR. A ffl{lOTH/3R 
80Y5 AT? I FOI?M!il?. 5TAfftRS 
/A/ANT 7lJ 5£:Nl? 7HI3Re A'7WUL... 
FtOIA/eRS .., &P fKJ/38s_ AN!?Y UPPIN­(PTT.,. 
'-.. 

AN£71 l-IPPINCOTT? AN!?YHA5 .., Y85. AlPS? flJU-BWWN, A57H8Y\ .54YINTH& AI/J5 BIZ. 
~ 

Holtz's endorsement out of .place 
By JAY FARRAHER 

I decided back in January that I would put together a ticket for senior class office. I knew that elections would be held in March and that with a lot of hard work and an equal amount of good fortune, I would have at least an average shot in my campaign endeavor. Well, as fate would have it, my ticket for senior class office did not fare as well as I had hoped. Despite the polling results, I have no regrets, and, as I'm sure my parents would say, the whole experience was some sort of "character builder." Discussing the details of my campaign, however, is not the point of my writing this article. 
I think it is only fair to say from the very start of this ar­ticle that I have the greatest respect for the two tickets which ran against me in the senior class elections. Any fur­ther mention of them is done in order for the story to be told properly and is not an attempt to discredit their platforms or campaigns in any way. For days prior to the first round of voting for class office, rumors flew around campus that Coach Lou Holtz was going to endorse the senior class ticket of Rod West and Pat Eilers (known to a lot of people as "the football ticket"--primarily because both of these men are members of the Notre Dame football team). To say the least, I was 
shocked to hear this rumor. I was able to calm myself down by reasoning that the coach would never do anything such as endorsing a ticket--he must realize how influential his en­dorsement would be on this campus and how unfair such an action would be. 
At 8 p.m. on Tuesday, March 21, 1989, the evening before the run-off elections, St. Edward's Hall invited Coach Lou Holtz to be the feature speaker at that night's forum. Prior to ad­dressing his views about the Notre Dame football team's past and future season, Lou Holtz publicly endorsed the ticket of Rod West and Pat Eilers for senior class office. Paraphrasing the coach's words, he said, "I have known these players for some time now, and I think they would make excellent class officers, and they'll do a find job." Loosely translated, "Juniors, vote WestEilers tomorrow." I could not believe it! In front of 
YOU KNOW

OH,MY 
HIM? OH, HF3Y,

60[)... 
IM50RKY...

I \ 
a couple hundred people Lou Holtz, who to many on this campus is second only to God, made a public endorsement of a candidate. For once, a campus rumor had come true. 
Anyone who has ever heard Coach Holtz speak will attest to the fact that he has almost a magical way of making you feel good about yourself and your future, as well as Notre Dame and her national cham­pion football team. Needless to say, by the time it came for questions and answers, the au­dience was in the palm of the coach's hand. Inconcludinghistalk, the coach again urged all the people in the room to sup­port the WestEilers ticket. As one person said as he exited, 
"If everyone in that room had to vote right at this very mo­ment, Rod West and Pat Eilers would be the new senior class president and vice-president." How unfair, I thought, for the other ticket in the run-off, ReyKing, to have such an in­fluential figure endorse the op­posing ticket. How unprofes­sional, I thought, for a staff member to publicly meddle in a student election. 
I followed the coach to his car 
and proceeded to explain to 
him that I thought it was very 
unfair of him to use his influ­
ence with the student body in 
such a way as to influence 
people's votes. I argued that 
when a student seeks office he 
or she must work very 
diligently to put together ideas 
for a platform, print up posters 
and campaign door to door. 
When a candidate appears at 
your door, he or she should be 
there seeking your support 
based upon their merit. Candi­
dates are running on who they 
are and what they have done, 
not on how popular they are or 
who has said they like them. 
I proceeded to tell Mr. Holtz 
that his action, in principle, 
was not fair to those other tick­
ets which had put in the time 
and effort to fare well in the 
elections. As was his preroga­
tive, coach Holtz disagreed 
with me 100 percent. He 
claimed that the students of 
Notre Dame love football 
players but have a negative at­
titude towards them as student 
government participants. The 
coach said that he wanted to 
help dispel that attitude and to 
insure the student body that, if 
elected, Rod West and Pat 
Eilers would have plenty of 
time to devote to class office 
despite their commitment to the football team. "Football players are working against a terrible disadvantage in this respect," he said. 
I will not argue that there may be people who have claimed that they did not think that an "athletic ticket" would be able to effectively balance their studies, athletic en­deavors, and leadership com­mitments. But, to play devil's advocate, what about all the notoriety an athlete gets in the press, never mind how much attention a member of a Na­tional Championship football team must get. And lets face it--in politics, name recogni­tion means a lot. So one could say that these two facets kind of balance each other out. I still do not see the justification in Holtz's argument that he is trying to give his football players a better name. If Rod West and Pat Eilers are qualified for the position of senior class officers, they will be able to convey that theme when they campaign. 
The coach and I parted, nei­ther one of us any more con­vinced of the other's point of view than before. By approach­ing coach Holtz, I was attempt­ing to express a belief that, as far as campaigns here at Notre Dame are concerned, they are run by and for the students, and only students should have an input into the decision-making process. People in positions similar to that of Coach Lou Holtz, whose name draws people's interest, should refrain from active participa­tion in campus elections. It is blatantly unprofessional for any staff member, faculty member, or administrator to become publicly involved in a student campaign. 
Upon leaving, coach Holtz said to me, "If you don't agree with what I have done, why don't you go talk to someone who can do something about 
it." And so I make my appeal 
to others on this campus; mem­
bers of the faculty, sports 
coaches, administrators, and 
rectors, who have the power to 
sway votes--don't! Let the can­
didates do their own campaign­
ing; let their character and 
ability shine through. And 
student voters, please don't 
base your vote upon the sex or 
group a candidate belongs to-­
vote based upon the can­
didate's ability to do the best 
job possible. 
Jay Farraher is a junior in the college of Arts and Letters. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE Of THE DAY 
H&Y, C'MON, 8055, SOMC.­
ON&HAS7V 8RJN6YOUUP TO 5PUI) 
\ 

'The first principle is that you must not fool yourself­and you are the easiest 
person to fool.' 
Richard Feynman 

---~ 
It's South Bending

30 today. Clouds projected to 
continue for at least six

IVIEWPOINTLESS: The meaning of life months, with rain daily. 


VOLUME KNOB, NO. 69 
APRIL 1, 1989, SORT OF 


Security apprehends 'great Grotto candle caper' thief 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Liver quiverer 
Notre Dame Security ap­prehened a male student on Friday for repeatedly lighting large candles at the Grotto while only donating $.25, not the requested $1.00. 
"We received an anonymous phone call on Easter Sunday,'' said Phil Johnson, assistant director of security, "The cal­ler reported a young male who she saw placing a quarter in the donation box and lighting a large candle," said Johnson. 
Since Sunday, security offi­cers have been staking out the Grotto in nearby trees. The of­ficers, equipped with binoculars, carefully watched visitors at the Grotto to see if they could notice any strange behavior, said Johnson. 
"Because of the sacredness of our Grotto the officers did 
the irrelevant tabloid pawn of the administration 
Year of Sexual Perversity coming 
By SARA MARLEY S.I.Swimsuit Model 

The 198M)() school year has been declared the Year of Sexual Perversity, University President Father Edward Mal­loy announced Sunday. 
"Now that we've gotten to ap­preciate each other through the Year of Cultural Diversity, let's really get to know each other,'' said Malloy. 
In conjunction with the Year of Sexual Perversity, parietals have been abolished, Malloy said. 
Vice President of Student Af­fairs Father David Tyson is en­thusiastic about the upcoming year. 
"Let's just all loosen up and have some fun," said Tyson. 
"We don't want to see any of those tame Bookstore team names either,'' said Tyson. Team names which do not con­tain sexual innuendos will be censored, he said. 
Events planned for next year include lectures by Dr. Ruth Westheimer, Geraldo Rivera, Jimmy Swaggart and John Tower. 
A series of workshops will be held on premarital sex, contra­ception, bondage, beastiliaty, and sadomasochism, Tyson an­nounced. 
Non-varsity Athletics has gotten in on the Year of Sexual Perversity by announcing a change in format in the annual "LNO." Renamed "Late Night Orgy,'' the event will be held
Tyson's office late Friday. The 'ladies' pictured have 
in the South "Pleasure" Dome 
most recently been employed at the Mustang Ranch, 
of the JACC.

outside Reno, Nevada. 
Also in celebration of the Year of Sexual Perversity, con­dom dispensers have been in­
stalled  in  all  restrooms  on  
campus.  
"We  saw  the need for  an  

awareness of safe sex, partic­ularly at the freshman 'meat market,' Theodores. These stu­dents are especially impres­sionable,'' said Malloy. 
Likewise, in an effort to bring more sexually active and per­verse students to campus, mir­rors have been installed on the ceilings of all rooms in the so­called "Mod Quad" dorms. 
For an additional fee, stu­dents may request a room with a queen-sized water bed, soundproof walls and audiovisual equipment. 
Student Union Board jumps on the bandwagon of sexual perversity by sponsoring an X­rated film fest. 
"We felt we were losing too many perverse students and faculty to the art films at the Annenberg Auditorium," said an SUB super secret under­commissioner of the Ad Hoc Film Committee. 
Director of University Food Services Bill Hickey has planned special dining hall meals featuring aphrodisiacs and videos entitled "Sexual Fun with Food." 
The Hammes Bookstore will offer a new line of National Championship lingerie and blue and gold whips, chains and handcuffs. 
The LaFortune deli will carry edible underwear in the future. 

their best to remain inconspi­thing quiet as there wuz lots 'o cious while looking for the in­peoples prayin' and stuff down dividual that would commit there (by the Grotto),'' said such an absurd crime,'' said Billy Bob Redneck, security of­Johnson. He added that this ficer. "Nothin' like this eva 
crime is particularly terrible because the money donated goes to charity. 
According to Johnson, secur­ity officers spotted the suspect on two separate occasions. The student was spotted wearing a long dark trench coat and sun­glasses on Tuesday night by se­curity officers who were dis­guised as worshipping monks. Security was unable to ap­prehend the student at that 
time. 
The student was ap­prehended by two security of­ficers on Friday when an offi­cer clearly saw the student place a quarter into the dona­tion box and proceed to light a large candle, said Johnson. 
"We's tried to keep da 'ho 
Light my fire 
Grotto candles. The facts. Just the facts. 
happen'd when I's worked at A & M," said Brown. 
Security has since turned the student over to John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life, for disciplinary action. "I am appalled that a Notre Dame student would stoop to such levels," said Goldrick. "I can assure you that stiff disciplinary action will be taken." 
Goldrick would not specify the exact punishment, but he 
_ did say that Father David Tyson, vice president for stu­dent affairs, will supervise the student in his penace at Sacred Heart. 

Long and thin 
Cost: $1.00 
Advantages: Length, long­lasting, more sins per candle 
Disadvantages: expense, messy, width, difficult to fit 
Number bought in1988: 12 

Source: GOD The Absurder 
Short and fat 
Cost: $.25 
Advantages: Width, less filling, more economical, perfect for a quick fix, easier to find a spot for 
Disadvantages: short life, length, harder to find, less sins 
Number bought in1988: 43,000 



The Absurder is our pseudo-annual lampoon of some of the "sacred cows" on campus. It is meant tobe a )oke. 

r------~--~--------..--------~---­
satchel page The Absurder A long, long time ago .. 
Accident 
party Ill you puke 


Hot tubs and orgies in Fawn Hall 
policy change: "I like to break parietals. It makes me 
i'Y,'h.
feel naughty."
accidental couple of the week 
T 
Because of the new man­he Absurder has named dates, bathrooms are co-ed Fawn Hall Brothel of the and include contraceptive dis­Week in light of its lascivious pensers. Hot tubs have been activities. The administration installed in the study lounges was interested in testing out on the first floor. Swimsuits some of its latest policy are optional. changes on one dorm, and Fawn Hall's foodsales were Fawn Hall was the result. expanded recently to include 
Because the Knights of Co­strawberry-flavored whipped lumbus had been disbanded cream, motion lotion, edible by the University last semes­underwear, push-up pops, ter, their former clubhouse frozen bananas, and electric provided a natural spot for bomb pops. Hot fudge and experimental housing. Stu­chocolate-covered cherries dents were quick to volunteer, were also added to the menu. and the clubhouse was trans­Cosmopolitan magazine has formed into Fawn Hall. donated a free subscription to 
Fawn Hall has had an Open each of the residents of Fawn House Policy that allows Hall in honor of the Year of anything to live as a resident Sexual Perversity. Helen Gur­A sign outside newly created Fawn Hall advertises some of the illicit activities that are sponsored by the in the dorm. "We have tried ley Brown, editor of Cosmo, dorm. All night orgies, hot tub parties, and other such frivolities are typical social activities for residents. not to discriminate on the said, "I'm both pleased and enced upperclassmen choose feree, said, "I think 'Nightin-BYOBC (Bring Your Own basis of sex, sexual prefer­shocked by the residents of from quads and quints. In gales' is a quality show. It's Birth Control)." ence, or species. I think Fawn. I believe they repre­addition, anyone living in a five minutes of nursing and 55 Currently, there are 4000 we've had a lot of fun so far," sent the quintessential Cosmo single is provided with an in-minutes of nymphomatic students on the waiting list to said Fawn's androgynous rec­reader: the lover looking for flatable "bed mate." nurses in their lingerie. It's get into Fawn Hall, and all of toli ess, former Mayflower shallow relationships and Hall president and fifth-fantastic! It's even better the incoming freshmen have Madam, Sidney Biddle Bar­cheap thrills!" year senior Mike Paese spon-than Section Porns." requested living in Fawn 
As part of the Open House sors "Nightingales Night" in Paese plans to initiate big-Hall. Those students who arerows. 
Rooms are "co-ed by bed." Policy, Fawn Hall has imple­the TV lounge every Wednes-ger and better social activi-already in the dorm say they Parietals have been retained, mented a novel variation of day night. The sexually am-ties for Fawn Hall. "From consider themselves lucky. but never result in expulsion "Room Picks." Every Sunday biguous participants dress up now on, SYRs will be ob-The resident in the the sheer in order to keep the excite­after brunch, residents gather as their favorite "Nightin-served in the most literal lingerie summed up the resi­ment of breaking parietals. for "Bed Picks." Singles, gales" nurse and gather to sense," he said, "We will dents' sentiments well: "I One resident, scantily clad in doubles, and triples are avail­watch the popular TV show. sponsor a Screw Your Room-like Fawn Hall because I'm a sheer lingerie, commented on able for freshmen and sop­Alison Cocks, Farley tran-mate orgy on all home foot-bad, bad girl." 
the seemingly contradictory homores, while more experi-ball weekends. They'll be 
NO BRIEFS 
Why are we late with our annual joke issue, one might ask? In the spirit of giving, The Absurder decided to hold up its publication over the weekend to allow our fellow campus publications the chance to print their joke issues. Congratulations go out to our rival publications Common Sense, Juggler and Humanitas for putting out their joke issues, not just in April, but throughout the academic year. -The Absurder 
Common Sense is celebrating its two year, one month and ten day anniversary. You've come a long way, baby, from an eight page issue coming out every two months, filled with biased, slanted articles to a sixteen page issue coming out every two months, filled with biased, slanted articles. -The Absurder 
The flooding problem on campus is the subject of a report issued by the Ad Hoc Committee on Making Notre Dame a Dry Campus. The report, issued last week, said the sidewalks have sunk lower than the Office of Student Activities. Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson, a member of the committee, said only "I thought we were ad­dressing the alcohol problem again." -The Absurder 
Another ticket scandal erupted last week this time at Saint Mary's. Reminiscent of last semes~ ter's "Great Bush Ticket Fiasco," hundreds of stu­dents protested when they were closed out of the Gwendolyn Brooks poetry reading. "There was a reactionary plot by a bunch of right-wing English literature students to keep us engineers out," said a seventh-year aerospace/ psychology-finance/ market­ing-CAPP/PLSHonorsiPPE major. -The Absurder 
Another rezoning plan was announced today by the Northeast Neighborhood Housing Service. The proposed plan, currently before Mayor Joe Kernan, would rezone the entire Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses to single-family residential, with NO grandfather clause. Apparently Student Government was aware of this planned change, but made no moves to inform the Administration. "Hey, they can read the South Bend Trib, too," said Student Body President Tom Doyle. University President Father Edward Malloy, in reaction to the plan, said "Hey,
1 . it's no problem. We're just like a family--the Notre ~ Dame family. We treat the students like infants." 
0 -The Absurder
;; 
"' 
I love Notre Dame and its benevolent policies 
I have seen the light! After my last couple 
of columns, I got a call from His Holiness John 
Goldrick. He sent me to this place where men 
in little white coats attacked me with cattle 
prods. They were mean and they kept attacking 
me ... the pain ... MOMMY! HELP-
Sorry. As I was saying, I had a nice interview 
with a nice man in a white coat. He explained 
to J?e how the benevolent, omnipotent, and all­
lovmg Holy Cross Priesthood had set up Notre 
Dame for our own good. 
And now I have seen the light! 
Notre Dame, you see, has been in the hands of the University President since Father Ed­ward Sorin told his disciples: "If you forgive students' sins, they shall be forgiven. If you hold students' sins bound, they are expelled." His holy mission has been handed down through the ages from president to president. 
Women are treated as second-class citizens because Father Sorin, in his benevolent wis­dom, didn't name a woman president. If he had wanted to have women in the Notre Dame hierarchy, he would have named one president. 
Besides, they turn into gremlins after mid­night (two on weekends) . • 
And homosexuals and other deviants aren't treated as citizens because none of them have been president either. 
Notre Dame's off-campus policy is part of the Grand Plan as well. We don't have any restau­rants or bars near campus because they are dens of iniquity and evil. People can eat meat on Fridays there and thereby sin. Worse yet, they could relax with a few beers and then in­sta~tly get out of control, killing children, rapmg women and taking the name of the Lord 
in vain. Alcohol is the root of all evil, I always say. 

Mark Mclaughlin 
Back from Student Affairs 
It's a good thing the University makes us take Foundations of Christianity, too. Us simple stu­dents with such mediocre GPAs and SATs would have a hard time thinking without being told how to think in this fine survey course covering such a wide range of religious issues. 
And the food! In my former heathen state I thought the food was horrible here. Silly me. The food is actually deliberately the same everyday so that Notre Dame can do its part in fighting obesity, cholesterol buildup, and that disgusting display of muscle and skin so prevalent at large state schools. It prevents us from overindulgence, and of course, modera­tion is a virtue! Except for evil alcohol, of course. 
But the most profoundly decent thing the Uni­versity does for us is made manifest every month or so, when the Holy Cross Fathers and their lay help in the Dome make manifest their wisdom in new Task Forces, Directives, and dedicated Years. They hand down their pronouncements without troubling us with needless debate and discussion. I'm glad we traded in our parents for the Notre Dame fam­ily. They have God on their side. 
In fact, I'm sure this Year of Sexual Perver­sity is for our own good. They will let us see the error in our ways, then they will return us to the Notre Dame Blue and Gold Road. Oh, how lucky we are to be here! 
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame ... 

What subliminal campaign? 
drink beer 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN 
Has-been 
The Absurder was accused last month by the Notre Dame administration of running a vi­cious "subliminal message" campaign to convert the stu­dents of Notre Lame and Saint rumor," said Absurder First Citizen Chris drink beer Donnelly. "It has been consistently proven that advertising in­fluences brand choice but doesn't increase drinking. Without a doubt." 
Mary's  into  normal  alcohol­ 
conscious students.  
"There's  nothing  to  this  

But Ann Firth drink beer and some other officials disagreed. "That whole newspaper does nothing but drink beer shamelessly promote alcohol," Firth said. "They are trying to corrupt good little Catholic boys and girls and I won't have it." 
The powers of subliminal drink beer advertising have been debated in academic circles for years. Said Professor of Psy­chology Dan Lapsley: "Look at all those drink beer cigarette advertisements in the 50s and 60s. Those sure didn't affect me. I only smoke drink beer two or three packs a day." 
CRIME OF THE WEEK If you have seen or know the 
Roman king stabbed 

whereabouts of Brutus, call 565-STOP and you will be paid 
On March 15, 44 B.C., Julius $1000 upon arrest or indict­Caesar, Emperor of Rome, was ment. We'll assign you a name stabbed in Rome. He later died and we won't ask your code of his injuries. Authorities have number. named one Brutus as the Crime Stoppers. It works. suspected killer. Eventually. 
The Absurder Notre Lame office, located somewhere in the bowels of LaFortune next to the offices that were swiped from under us, accepts petrifieds on Tuesdays with a full moon from 6:45 a.m. to 6:47 a.m.. Lines are a problem, so get there early. Deadline for next day's petrifieds is 6:44 a.m.. If you can break into the Saint Mary's office, you can send petrifieds from there, too. Rate is 13 cents per 7 'e's per fortnight. 
Viewpointless 
Hanging questions need firm answers 
P.0. Box Quack 
Sexual perversity--What does it mean? How does one be­come sexually perverse? What does it mean to be sexually per­verse? Can only Domers be sexually perverse, and only in the '89-'90 academic year? What happens when the Year of Sexual Perversity has come and gone? Everyone will be doing it, but be sure to do it to them before they do it to you. 
C. Max Walsh 
unwelcomed guest 
Who really knows what goes on behind closed doors? And more importantly, is it against DuLac? 
Is anybody out there, and if so, can we use existential philosophical principles to prove he-Ehe really exists? I think not. . . POOF! If there really were a God, would he get lonely letters? 
Are plaid pants a prere­quisite for graduation? Are plaid boxers? 
Is Phil Donohue really an ND alum, or did he just tell that to NBC so that he could close Geraldo out of the spot? Did Oprah actually lose 500 pounds, or is that her evil twin? Is Connie Chung moving to West 57th for the money, or is she sick of being chased by Dave Letterman? Does Maureen McFadden exemplify the inde­pendent woman of the '80's, or did she take the sexual perver­sity theme to heart and just 
Goonsburied 
sleep her way to the top? 
Is it really dangerous to sniff grape magic markers? What about licorice ones? Which Crayolas are better: the short skinny ones or the big fat ones? Do artists really do it with style, or are women just drawn to them? Is Roger Rabbit the up-and-coming sexless symbol of the '90's? 
What is a Fine Young Can­nibal? Is it an adolescent who eats only celebrities, debutantes, and those with in­comes above $50,000 per year? Should 10,000 Maniacs be com­mitted? What does it mean to be a musician these days, and is Guns and Roses a rock group, or escaped members of a chain gang with a bad sense of fashion? Is it musical ability, or how well you can wear zebra-striped lycra? Can David Lee Roth really do that stuff, or does he hire a stunt stud? Can we get him to come to ND as a guest lecturer for the Year of Sexual Perversity? 
Are there any other presi­deqts in the world with a horse­shoe pit on their front lawn? Should Bush go ahead with his plans for building a shooting range in the back yard, and will he get the contruction plans from Kadahffi? Will Barbara Bush let the puppies sleep in her bed--and what about George? What happens if Bush dies? Who will take care of Danny Boy? 
If when it rains, it pours, what happens when it drizzles? 

If you mix Three Men and a Baby with One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, what do you get? --Ten Little Indians. 
Is Vanna the Goddess of Love, or is that just Pat's pet name? 
Why are NVA (Not Very Ath­letic) sports taken so serious­ly? Those guys just love to wear all that padding. 
If they're called 24-hour lounges, why do people only use them between the hours of 2 and 11 a.m.? 
What are the hourly rates at the Ritz, and more important­ly, does your SYR ·date know them? What is the Administra­tion implying by having Screw Your Roommate social gather­ings, when all dorms are single­sexed? 
What is a meatless cheeseburger? What is a bone­less rib sandwich? A Crunchberry? If we throw the stuff that we eat across the dining hall, can we honestly call it a "food" fight? 
If you drank two cases in two hours with two of your favorite football players driving through two stop signs, what are your chances of attending the University next year? 
Let's take a long, hard look, and ask, "Are we really ready for the Year of Sexual Perver­sity?" Ready or not, here it comes. 
C. Max Walsh is an Aerospace-M-A-R-K-E-T-I-N-G major, and an irregular View­pointless columnist. 
Facts in Brief 
Dear Editor: 
It has come to my attention that Professor Peter W alshe recently wrote a secret letter to the Fruit-of-the-Loom guys asking for their support. I have no doubt that a coverup is in the works. 
Father Oliver Williams 
Isn't that sweet? 
Dear Editor: 
Father Oliver Williams and I shared pizza and beer the other day and I just want you to know that I think he is swell. 
Professor Peter Walshe 
Perversity not welcomed at NO 
Dear Editor: 
The Year of Sexual Perver­
sity has succeded in raising the 
proportion of sexual abnor­
malities at Notre Dame to an 
alarmingly high level. It is ap­
palling for a University with 
such a morally upright position 
to have deviated from the long, 
narrow path of sexual good 
standing. The Year of Sexual 
Perversity is bearing down fast 
on the very origin of our being. 
The proponents of sexual per­
versity are really hitting below 
the belt when they say that 
their intentions are strictly 
honorable, and I for one have had enough. Though it is too late to change what was begun nine months ago, from now on, "Just say no." 

Ida Wannaseeit Committee to Keep It Away 
Never fear, sexual perversity is here 
Dear Editor: 
How many times have you returned from break after visiting other major univer­sities and wondered if Notre Dame would ever be able to match the standards those other schools set? 
Weep no more, kiddies, the year of Sexual Perversity is here. 
No longer will Notre Dame be the object of scorn and ridicule from schools more per­verse than we. Now we can show them Notre Dame will not be out-perversed by any other school at any other price. 
Creation of the Perversity In­stitute was the necessary first step in the scientific study of the many different and exciting forms of sexual perversity. Un­fortunately, the Perversity In­stitute's square footage may not be so massive at first, due to lack of funding, but we all know that size isn't the issue. 
Congratulations Notre Dame on your coming into your own. Be sure to keep the good work up. 
I. Likeit 

P.O. Box Quack, Notre Lame, IN 46556 Don't call us. We'll call you. 

The Absurder is the irrelevant tabloid pawn of the administration. We print only 
what we're told to print except for some occasional Inside Whining. It reflects the 
personal policies of the Office of Student Activities, the Office of Student Affairs, 
and the Office of Internal Propaganda. The news is reported with as much bias 
as can be found in human print. Column space is available to 
University-approved people only. Students not included. 
L__________________ 
News Editor .............................. Joq "Shaun" Cassidy Token Woman .......................... Theresa "Balls" Kelly Viewpoint Editor ...................... Ollie "North" Williams Saint Mary's Editor ............................................. TBA Sports Editor .................. Dickie "Richard" Rosenthal Mother Hen Figure ...................... John "Sugar" Bias Accent Editor .................................. Anne "Dry" Firth Film Exposer ............................... Eric "Frosh" Bailey Saint Mary's Editor ....... Dick "See No Evil" Chlebek Exec. Sweet Pooper ........ Matt "Schmeal'' Gallagher Photo Editor ............................. Phil "f·stop'" Johnson 
Found on November 3, 1966 Ha, ha, we're legal. 

1 
I 
\ 
-
-
·­

-~---~-~-~ -------~-...--------­

Today
page boy 

Sutton takes over for Digger 
Former Kentucky coach to ensure program's integrity 
By JOHN SMITH Steve Garvey's son 

Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal stunned the col­lege basketball world Sunday by firing veteran coach Digger Phelps and replacing him with former Kentucky coach Eddie Sutton. 
Rosenthal, who did not in­form Phelps of his decision un­til five minutes before the for­mal announcement, honored the 18-year Irish coach during the press conference. 
-
"I tell you, Eddie Sutton would be the first to tell you he couldn't carry Digger's water bucket," said Rosenthal. "However, I never would have left the banking profession if I didn't know Eddie Sutton would be my coach in a couple of years. 
"We want to make sure the Notre Dame basketball pro­gram can be at the level of the Kentucky program, both academically and athletical­ly." 
Upon his appointment as head coach, Sutton announced 
'Hate Miami' hypewon't compare to this 
With all the hype surrounding the biggest game of the year on the Notre Dame football team's 1989 schedule, Head Coach Lou Holtz held a special press conference Saturday to respond to all the requests for his views on the upcoming Nov. 11 battle. 
Martian Strasen 
Football Cliffnotes 

"Southern Methodist is a fine, fine football team," said Holtz. "And their coach is an awfully fine football coach. I think Forrest Gregg's track record at Green Bay speaks for itself. 
"Keep in mind that it's just a football game. But it's a game you'll remember for the rest of your life, and a game you have to live with for the rest of your life. This is what Notre Dame is all about. 
"I think the University of Southern Methodist is a better football team than last year," Holtz continued, "probably one of the top three or four football teams in the country. I see people saying we don't have a chance, and looking at the two teams, I might be inclned to agree with them, except for one thing--on a given Saturday we do have a chance. We can win this football game." 
JOCKEY BRIEFS 
Under the threat of "make us varsity or let us practice ~ith the men's team," Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal has merged the women's field hockey club with the men's varsity ice hockey team for the 1989-90 season.-The Absurder 
The South Bend Mini-Mites, despite outshooting the Irish 34-21, dropped a close 2-1 decision to Notre Dame in hockey action Saturday night at the Joyce ACC. -The Absurder 
Lewis Hall, winner of the the Interhall soccer, football and basketball championships over the last year, has received the NVA death penalty for steroid use and several other undisclosed but "extremely serious violations" of NVA regulations, according to an announcement made by NVA Saturday. -The Absurder 
The NO softball team, golf team, and rugby club were all in action this past weekend, we think, but we really don't kno~ how they did. -The Absurder 
The Sports Department ofThe Absurder has officially seceded from the rest of the newspaper. Citing the fact that "we just aren't annoying enough to work here," the
-Sports staff announced its separation by throwing a pipe bomb into Denny's, the popular hangout for members of other departments. -The Absurder 
that he was hiring former Ken­tucky assistant Dwayne Kasey to his staff. Since leaving the University of Kentucky under pressure, Kasey had been working at Emery, Inc., as the representative in charge of making sure things don't fall out of packages in the mail. 
Sutton's star-studded assis­tant coaching staff at Notre Dame also will include Larry Brown, who led Kansas to the national championship in 1988 before leaving for the NBA's San Antonio Spurs. 
"I finally feel like I'm home," said an excited Brown. "I know this is where I've belonged all these years." 
Brown, who has been known to leave coaching positions with regularity, emphasized he intended to stay at Notre Dame for the rest of his career. 
"Eddie and I are staying right here until we get this school on probation, I mean, to the national championship," said Brown. 
After the press conference, Sutton and Brown headed to the nearest truck stop to hire the rest of their assistants. 

"We want to make sure we have a bunch of truck drivers as our assistants, as long as they have sons with talent who are almost out of high school," said Sutton. 
Phelps still is mulling over future options, which include participating in next week's Fischoff National Chamber Music Competition. 
"A lot of people knew me as the Notre Dame basketball co­ach," said Phelps, "but not many of you know about my great appreciation for classical music." 
Phelps also has applied for the open coaching position at Butler vacated by the resigna­tion of Joe Sexton. Phelps' en­dorsement contract with Sprite is contingent on his staying at a university in Indiana. 
"I think I could create a lot of Butler moments over there,'' said Phelps, "and I could con­tinue my own personal rivalry with Valparaiso." 

Betting dooms O'Sullivan 
placed bets on Irish footballBy MIKE JOHNSON games
Another son of Steve Garvey 

"He would call one of us up 
Former Notre Dame golf co­and say to us, 'Notre Dame, ach Noel O'Sullivan has Notre Dame, Notre Dame,' " received a five-year prison sen­said a source from Alumni tence for his participation in a Hall. "For some reason, he multi-million dollar sports thought one of us would know gambling ring. who we could contact to place 
O'Sullivan left the court­a bet." house mumbling to himself something that sounded O'Sullivan also allegedly had vaguely like, "Notre Dame, betting contacts in his popular Notre Dame, Notre Dame." freshman physical education 
classes. He like to announce his 
Throughout his 15-year ten­prediction for the upcoming ure at Notre Dame, which Notre Dame football game ended last season, O'Sullivan each week. 

"I always used to think he was just predicting the games for fun," said Lisa Edwards, a Notre Dame sophomore and daughter of Steve Garvey who took O'Sullivan's golf lessons in phys ed last year. "Then I started noticing one funny­looking guy in a suit was al­ways there taking notes furiously. 
"Then, every Monday, that guy in the suit was always giving Coach something in an envelope, and Coach would start saying 'Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Notre Dame,' with a smile on his face." 


The Absurder 

Despite Keith Tower's efforts, Elmer Bennett of the Notre Dame varsity freeze-tag team mistakenly un-freezes a Louisville player in Sunday's game. LaPhonso Ellis' 24 tags while "it" were not enough for the Irish as the Cardinals won 96-72. 
Accent
Monday, April 3, 1989 page 9 
'Chances Are' 
H
MICHELLE BERNINGER attorney, is fatally hit by a Accent Copy Editor car, he annoys the "officials" in heaven just enough to get ow would you like to sent back to Earth much awaken one morning only sooner than usual. The only to remember a past life? problem occurs when, in his All those new places and haste to return to life, Louie new people that seem so coin­doesn't receive the proper cidentally familiar are actu­"innoculation of forgetful­ally part of a life you lived ness" administered so the years ago. But what if those reincarnated will not remem­"years ago" equal a mere 20 ber their past lives. years, and you realize that Twenty years later, Louie, your girlfriend is your now reborn as recent Yale daughter and her mother is graduate, Alex Finch (Robert your wife from that previous Downey, Jr.), unknowingly life? finds his way back to the 
Georgetown home of his past It also depicts not just wife, Corinne (Cybill Shep­herd) and the daughter he
the usual 'love 
never knew, Miranda (Marytriangle,' but instead, Stuart Masterson). Miranda, den protective attitude she portrayed in her "Moon­comes along.also a student at Yale, has towards her. lighting" days. Yet within a Masterson's part is so lim­
more of a ridiculous 
met Alex at the Yale library As if things aren't confusing single day, her actions ited that any outstanding act­'love rectangle.' just a short time earlier. enough already, it becomes change from those of a ma­ing abilities which she might The bulk of the plot in­evident that Louie's best ture business woman still tor­possess are obscured within 
In the midst of numerous volves Alex's realization of friend, Philip Train (Ryan mented by her husband's the confines of the script. popular movies presently his past identity and his at­O'Neal), loves and has al­death, to those of a teenager Miranda is seen as a youngshowing in the theatres, tempts to convince Corinne ways loved Corinne, but has in love, strolling hand-in-hand intellectual who is somewhat 
"Chances Are" explores such and Miranda of his reincarna­never been quite able to ex­with Alex and accidently socially immature, and the a predicament in a modern tion. It also depicts not just press his feelings. wearing mismatched clothing. audience is kept in the dark story of reincarnation. the usual "love triangle," but As for the other two, O'Neal as to what she really thinks Bearing a resemblance to the instead, more of a ridiculous Downey is, without a doubt, and Masterson, their parts about what is happeninglate 1970s film, "Heaven Can "love rectangle." At first, the savior of the film. His ac­are as mediocre and limited around her. Wait," the LobeU£ergman Alex falls in love with tions are as spontaneously as their displays of actingProduction for Tri-Star Miranda, but upon realizing humorous as those of Chevy talent. O'Neal plays a sensi­For such a bizarre mix of humorously presents the no­that he is actually her father, Chase in "Fletch," and he is tive ace reporter for The leading characters, and quite tion of life and love not en­falls in love with Corinne convincingly able to play two Washington Post. Despite his an unrealistic plot, "Chances 
ding with death, but continu­once again. Miranda, characters in one. good looks, however, he Are" does not fail to elicit ing and changing form. however, remains hopelessly For the majority of the comes off as a bit of a geek, laughs. It is a harmles~ ,When Louie Jeffries in love with her fellow Yalie, movie, Shepherd deviates too spineless to admit his romantic comedy, and 1t s (Christopher McDonald), a although unable to interpret little from the determined feelings even after 20 years-­corny, yet chances are, you'llnewlywed Washington, D.C. the true meaning of his sud-and rather uptight character that is, until his competition be entertained. 
'Live-In' should move out of CBS' new lineup 
C
BS has a thing about show cannot. Besides, the two-hour "Odd Couple" Australia. The network's American public deserves reunion movie next season. It
Joe Bucolo
first attempt to "cash in" on better. will star both Jack Klugman the Australian mystique ~ "Live-In" is an absurd, and Tony Randall. If the film 
;,

spawned by "Crocodile Dun­dreary situation comedy. The does well, ABC plans to air dee" was "Dolphin Cove." To Be Continued ... premise is silly--not to men­several "Odd Couple" films a While the show is ridiculous, 
~-~. tion a cliche; the characters season. This week's episode it at least provides a reason-­are two-dimensional. Even of "Dallas" takes viewers to albeit an absurd one--for its make a show of it. In theory, the older son a car, the the traditional "touching mo­Austria and Russia, where Australian locale. CBS' this insignificant premise younger brat replies, "He ments" cannot put the bounce J.R. and Cally are taking a newest Australia-related may have seemed feasible. In may be old, but he's not back in this kangaroo's jump. honeymoon, to set up this 
fiasco is "Live-In," a show as actuality, however, it holds a stupid." Gee, could anyone Of the house that is CBS, this season's cliffhanger. On dopey and dull as Australia is show together as well as the have predicted that com­"Live-In" should move out. "Dynasty," watch for Sable south of the equator. adhesive on Post-It notes. eback? Stay Tuned: ABC will air a to find out she is pregnant. 
"Live-In" airs on CBS Mon­Also, there is no reason what­In the same episode, which days at 7:00. The show fea­soever that Lisa be centers on Danny's passing tures the talented young star Australian--besides the at­his driver's test (another of Chris Young as Danny, the tempt to take advantage of the shows' attempts at oldest boy in a family that America's recent fascination originality), Ed explains Dan­hires an Australian live-in with residents of that country. ny's driving ability: "He's a housekeeper, Lisa (Lisa Yet, even if the live-in were great driver; he's a lousy Patrick). Ed (Hugh Maguire) Moses himself, he couldn't stopper." Maybe Danny and Sarah (Kimberly Farr) lead this show to the should drive through an ob­are Danny's parents and Promised Land. stacle course and stop as Peter <David Moscow) is his In addition to the barely close to an egg as possible for wisecracking brother. present premise, the show practice. (What? "The Brady 
It seems the creators of this lacks comedy (that somewhat Bunch" did it already? That show tuned into "Growing important element usually wouldn't stop this show.) Pains," liked the blossoming contained in a TV sitcom). Finally, the producers romance between Mike and Peter's sarcasm is pathetic-­portray these parents as the Seavers' new not witty. When Danny tells idiots. Maybe Steven Spiel­housekeeper, and decided to Peter that Ed intends to buy berg can pull that off, but this 
BUZZ MC FLATIOP 
iN IW £Ff"OI{f 70 StVCU.L£ }(£.65 oN!o ~LAST­
.•. ~c:-K.• I

N!(Jir; A IG?Wlbqr' 110v'£P 5/E.ALTJIILY ,D,UoS5 sr. l"fM('S L/ik£. . .. 
Hd.rRo5Ji! tiA1c-H 
()VI fOr< ~1.. --··­



page 10 
Reds, Dodgers set for season opener 
Associated Press American League Boston at Baltimore 
Baseball enters the 1989 season today missing some The Orioles lost their first 21 of its stars because of injuries games last season and winning and some of its mythical in­on opening day this year won't nocence, too. be easy, as Roger Clemens (18­
The "traditional" season 12) pitches for the Red Sox opener at Cincinnati starts at against Dave Schmidt (8-5). 2:05p.m. EDT as the Reds play President Bush will make the the World Series champion Los ceremonial first pitch and rock Angeles Dodgers. star Joan Jett will sing the na­
Orel Hershiser was sched­tional anthem. uled to start for the Dodgers, Toronto at Kansas City but he caught the flu and will pitch Wednesday. Hershiser Blue Jays left-bander Jimmy will be trying to extend his Key (12-5) may want to pitch record of 59 consecutive score­around the Royals' George less innings when he pitches Brett. Last year on opening against the Reds' Tom Brown­day, Key yielded a home run ing. to Brett in the first inning and 
Danny Jackson didn't allow another to a left­pitches for Cincinnati against handed batter the rest of the Tim Belcher. season. 
Winning could be even Mark Gubicza (20-8) allowed harder if the Dodgers have to five hits to Toronto first do it without left fielder Kirk baseman Fred McGriff last Gibson. season and three were home 
· Gibson, who led the club with runs. 25 home runs and 76 runs batted Milwaukee at Cleveland in last season, has not recovered from the knee injury Don August, 13-7 as a rookie he suffered in the playoffs last last season, gets the opening­October and played very little day assignment for the in spring training. Brewers against Greg Swindell 
(18-14). St. Louis at New York 
The Brewers' Paul Molitor is sidelined for a month after 
Dwight Gooden (18-9) starts finger surgery. for the Mets against left­Seattle at Oakland bander Joe Magrane (5-9, league-best 2.18 ERA) as New Jim Lefebvre makes his York begin defense of its NL debut as the Mariners' East championship. 
manager and sends Mark Langston (1541) against Dave 

The Mets have won 17 of their Stewart (21-12). Last season, last 19 season openers. They Lefebvre was a coach for the have not lost a home opener Athletics. since losing to Montreal in 1969. Oakland's Jose Canseco will San Francisco at San Diego, miss the first month of the 
10:05 p.m. season with a wrist injury. 
Monday, April 3, 1989
The Observer 

Bookstore Basketball: Day 1 
Bookstore Tournament 
Monday's Games Stepan 1 
4:00 -Five Henchmen vs. No. ! 
4:45 -The Lima Bean is struck vs. Bob Villa and the nail drivers 
5:30 -Four jerks and a couple of squirts vs. Anything 
6:15 -Trigger,Bronco and the 3 horsemen vs. 
The Winnie Quinn team Stepan 2 
4:00 -Four cheerleaders and a stiff vs. 4 studs and Brad 
4:45 -Rubber duckies vs. Lawson's meat market 
5:30 -Dry muck vs. We got the tools but not the talent 
6:15 -Sport Death vs. Adworks slow children Stepan 3 
4:00 -5 Larry Birds who can't shoot vs. A fireman,a gardner,and 3 guys ... 
4:45 -No,no,Mo! The other basket vs. 3 engaged guys and 2 wasting away... 
5:30 -The Brew's crew vs. Nestle Quick and the Bruise Brothers 
6:15 -Rick's future wife and 4 girls who wish they were vs. Mary 3.1415 
Stepan 4 

4:00 
-Goose's gang vs. We can't play,but we can coach better than Diger 

4:00 
-Goose's gang vs. We can't play,but we can coach better than Digger 


4:45 -The everlasting renob vs. Swish,swish,brick 
5:30 -La Pollaa Recors vs. Supreme darks 
6:15 -Siimer and the Apparitions vs. We can't 
think of a good name Stepan 5 
4:00 -Human tripods vs. Rigid structure 

4:45 -A work of art vs. Bad boys of bookstore 
5:30 -We dribble but Skiko scores vs. Col­leagues flowing with the TAO 
6:15 -Forteited vs. Pistachio Stu Stepan 6 
4:00 -MBA Bulls vs. The Posse 

4:45 -Women in cages vs. Men with the key 
5:30 -We are better than a sharp stick in the eye vs. Here to play 
6:15 -The screaming midgets from Hell-Live! vs. 
Copy Center Copycats Bookstore 9 

4:00 -But I bought you dinner vs. The moot points 
4:45 -Shooting blanks vs. Dial leg 5:30 -Wade Boggs & the heavy lumber-swingers vs. The Soj Barage 
6:15 -John Tower,Keith Tower & 3 other 
guys ... vs. J.T. Connection Bookstore 1 0 
4:00 -Goldrick's worst nightmare vs. The heat misers 
4:45 -Parrotheads forever vs. Snark 
5:30 -Spot us 19 vs. 5 dried boogers on a shower stall wall 
6:15 -4 hamburgers vs. The Bastards Lyons 11 
4:00 -Harmonizing hormones vs. Morris Inn keepers 
4:45 
-Work it Johnny, work it vs. The air diggers 

4:45 
-Work it Johnny, work it vs. The Air Daggers 


5:30 -Team saliva vs. Aldehyde & the Keytones with their financial. .. 
6:15 -We've got our trophy vs. The Exchange Lyons 12 
4:00 -Nuff said vs. Viable Choppers of America 
4:45 -Joint effort vs. Hoopsters from Hell 
5:30 -Mephistophelian Meatuses vs. Kermit & the California Ringworms 
6:15 -The Twin Towers, Fridge, Shorty, and me vs. Corrines 

own, as did former Irish bas­The commissioners have ketball players Athletic Direc­seeded the top 16 teams in the
Fame 

tor Dick Rosenthal and Univer­tournament, but in no particu­
continued from page 16 

sity President Edward lar order. Upon reaching the on those students instructed to "Monk" Malloy. round of 16, the teams will be do the same when picking up "We waived the rule banning reseeded. their tickets at January's a team from having two varsity 
Adworks, last year's cham­

Fiesta Bowl. basketball players on the same pions, will be a strong force inRice's throwing arm also team for this game," said Man­this spring's tournament field.
drew ridicule, even from his ning. The rule still remains in 
Kevin Keyes and John own teammates. On one occa­effect for the regular tourna­

"Booger" Buscher will joinsion, Rice elected to go in for ment field. 
newcomers Tony Rice, Derek a slam instead of dishing off to Holtz, who sealed the victory Brown and Derrick Johnson. 

a wide-open Holtz, prompting for the All-Stars with a reverse 
Although Adworks may bethe coach to remark, "He can't layup, was impressed by the one of the favorites, Rice does even pass on the basketball number of students who braved not feel any pressure.

court." · the weather to watch his team 
Bob Cihak, who led the Bush­play. "I just want to have a good men with six baskets, added to "It was bad enough that I time," Rice said. "If you lose, the ribbing by recreating was there," joked Holtz, "but you lose." Rice's first collegiate play I couldn't believe a school with Holtz will team with Cunnin­from scrimmage. The self­this much intelligence had that gham, former football player proclaimed "Bush Master" amount of people watching our John McCabe, Irish basketball lined up first behind left tackle game. I do believe that about assistant Jim Dolan and a and then left guard before fin­their social life now." player to be named later on Co­ding the center in the Bush­This year's tournament field ach's. men's makeshift offensive line. surpasses the previous record Other teams to watch include He then proceeded to over­of 666 set last spring. Manning Naked Guns (last year's Pop­throw a receiver streaking and his staff also upgraded the A-Shot at Senior Bar team), toward the unguarded net. compensation for officials and Malicious Prostitution (a 
Rice led the All-Stars in have attracted more than 20 group of law students), Sean scoring with eight baskets. women's teams, another Connor's Minahoonies and Holtz chipped in four of his record. Touch-N-Go. 
The Observer accepts classitieds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 until3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
SOPHOMORES !!! 

Are you ready lor advanced registra­tion on April 20th? Have you selected your major? II you answered no, consider register· lng lor the Caree....Uajor Decision Making Workshop starting the week of April 3rd at the University Counse~ lng Center. Call 239-7336 to register or lor more Information 
\ LOST/FOUND l 
LOST LOST LOST BUILDING STRUC­TURES TEXTBOOK GREY AND WHITE COVER HARDBOUND PLEASE CALL TERRY X2706 I REALLY NEED THIS BOOK!!! 
LOST: AEROBIE between SMC 'brare and dining hall on Easter Monday. If found, PLEASE call Patty at 284-4198 or leave at Regina Hall desk. Reward off ered!!!!!!! 
LOST-Black SEIKO watch the Thurs night before Spring Break, most likely at Bridget's. $REWARD$-x1142 
FOUND: One extremely revealing Spring Break photo outside NOH. Positive ID to claim. Bleached blondes only need bot­her. Discreetly reply here. 
LOST: Pair of keys. FSU and Notre Dame keychains. Call x4025 if found. 
FOUND: Set of keys in room 215 O'Shag. A University of Notre Dame Keychain­room 309. Call # 3688 to claim. 

LOST:Brown leather jacket at Senior Bar. Keep the jacket it you must, but I need my trout light key chain and the keys on it and the other stuff in the pockets. 
PLEASE CALL JULIE at 4929 or 277­3216. REWARD! No questions asked!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
LOST: glasses W'brown case, Wed. Mar. 29, somewhere between NOH, BP, and Holy Cross. Please call Jenny at 1293 if found. 
fOR RENT I 

------------' 
.. 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
219-291-7153. 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-6389, 683·8889. 
MALE GRADUATES FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272­0615. 
HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232-3616 
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED AND BREAKFAST CONVENIENTLY LO· CATED 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVITIES. 616-471· 5711. 
SUMMER LODGING IN SOUTH BEND SUMMER SCHOOL? WORKING HERE? YOU NEED PRIVACY TO STUDY, REST, AND PLAY AT YOUR BEST CHECK OUT A TURTLE CREEK STUDIO CALL JIM AT 272-4788 
WANTED 

CAMP MILLHOUSE NEEDS WATERFRONT, NATURALIST, FINE ARTS, MALE COUNSELORS. ROOM, BOARD, INSURANCE, TIME OFF, COMPETITIVE PAY. JUNE 9-AUGUST 19. LEA 234-1169. 
NEED BAND TO PLAY CARIB­BEAN-REGGAE MUSIC,FRI & SAT NIGHTS THRU APRIL CAPT ALEXAN­DER'S WARF. FOR MORE INFO.,CALL 234-4477. 
Triple A Student Painters Is Hiring for Summer Positions Call NOW !!I 239-3683 
I I
FORSALE 
BMW R900 Motorcycle. 1976 6 
thousand ong m1les, excellent cond1l1on, brown, stock, $2200. 872-7315. 
NEW LONDON LAKE CONDOMINIUM Condo laces pool that's surrounded by a lake stocked with bass. Features 2 large bdrms, 2 baths, all appliances, 2 car garage & new carpet throughout. Located on Ironwood at Bulla. Close to everything. sn,700. Call Janice Hll· dabrldle at Cressy & Everett 233-6141 or 233-8883. 
NEED A CAR? '81 SUBARU,FWD, 1 08K $925 OR DECENT OFFER CALL 3554 
For Sale: 1 way ticket from O'HARE to Portland,OR 5113 at 10 A.M.$175 Call Mary P. at X 4015. 
FORSALE-used motorcycle helmet, 1 yr NolanN33,red,like new,$7~.offer call Markus 256-7139 
'----TI_C~E:l~__] 
I need Grad. t1x 288-4160 
MONEY MONEY MONEY I NEED GRADUATION TIX and I can make it worth your while, call Dan at 3365. 
.................................. WE NEED A MIRACLE! I!!! AT LEAST 2 TIX WANTED FOR SHOWS IN LOUIS­VILLE AND CINCINNATI. CALL DAN OR CHRIS AT 4079 OR LEAVE MESSAGE. 
PERSONALS 
CW--"And me so undeserving" 
hlag 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373 
ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877­3574 
ADOPT: Happily married, professional couple wishes to provide wonderful home, secure future, much love for white newborn. Legal. Expenses paid. Call us collect 212-517·2696. 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­standing brother/sister sports camps on largest lake In New England near "ON GOLDEN POND" site seek stall. ALL TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: Roblndel (girls) 215-884-3326, Wlnaukee (boys) 203-227-4387 or see us on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 AM-2PM at Lafortune. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING DRUMMER FOR BAND NO METAL CALLx1749 
FOREIGN STUDENTS Job-Hunting Guide (Rev. 1989). Send $19.95 for the step-by-step guide. lvysoft, PO Box 241090, Memphis, TN 38124 
SCAP .... The Word of the Future!!! Use itNOWI! 
'"SENIORS'" JOIN US TUESDAY, APRIL 4 ALL YOU CAN EAT AT BARNABY'S FROM 5-7 
HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from Chicago Detroit, or Cleveland lor no more than $229, or from the East Coast lor no more than $160 with AIR­HITCH(TM), as reported In Consumer Reports, NY Times, Let's Go, and na· 
tlonal network morning shows. For 
details, call 212·864-2000 or write: AIRHITCH(TM) 2901 Broadway, Suite 100G, NY, NY 10025.. 

SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL 
LAST CHANCE TO BUY BIDS 
Wed. April 5, 7-9pm in LaFortune 
Get measured for tux, arrange table 
seating, and room reservations. 
NEED ANY DEROGATORY MIAMI FOOTBALL T SHIRT!!! PLEASE CALL RANDI X4977 
Thankyou St. Jude for a prayer an­swered. 
GRACE .... GRACE .... GRACE .... GRACE 
.... GRACE .... GRACE .... GRACE ... 
VOTE FOR 
SHAUN BARRY/LEE POLISANO 
CO-PRESIDENTS 
ARE YOU INTRIGUED BY EXOTIC PLACES, FOREIGN TRAVELS, DIF­
FERENT LANGUAGES, TRAINS, BOATS, MAPS, FOREIGN COINS, ETC? If so, then ND and SMC student governments invite you to a FREE Pizza Party WEDNESDAY APRIL 5. 4:30 PM IN THEODORE'S. ANYONE WHO HAS EVER STUDIED ABROAD, OR ANYONE WHO IS GOING NEXT YEAR IS INVITED! Get helpful hints, ask ques­tions, meet others who will be abroad, hear stories about how it will REALLY be! 
COME ON NOW MARY! I know you can do ttl Make Donald happy and 
reform now! The end Is near for the 
Trumps of the world! 
SENIORS Need 3 graduation ti>:. Will pa1 $$$ Call Tony 288-8345 
T&M CHANCES ARE. You'll be seeing more of The Moose! Thanks F 
""'SENIORS'"" SOUTH BEND WHITE SOX FRI APRIL 7 TIX ON SALE MON-THURS 3-5:30 SENIOR CLASS OFFICE $3 '""SENIORS"'" 
""'SENIORS""' CHICAGO TRIP WED APRIL 12 TIX ON SALE WED-FRI APR5-7 FROM 3-5PM SENIOR CLASS OFFICE ""'SENIORS"'" 
GRACE GRACE GRACE GRACE GRACE GRACE TYLER-SHERMAN FOR CO­
PRESIDENTS 
VOTE TODAY! 
Hurry! The highly acclaimed Z BALLS WEEK is now in its final week! Only 5 installments left! See Silver Babar exposed! You'll laugh as Ween Ted blows his horn! Call 3410 for reservations, but be as­sured, they have none! Ask zBalls if he'll give you a private screening. 
AN TOSTAL '89 • AN TOSTAL '89 ••• Sign up for JORDAN JAMMER Mim-hoop Tourney!!! 7-9 pm Monday, April 3 SUB Office, Lafortune--cali TIM at 2'77-1180 with questions. 
Ultimate speed. 
Ultimate action. 
ULTIMATE FRISBEE!!!!I!!!I!!!! Last chance sign ups Man 7-9 SUB Finals played in the Stadium $50 1st prize--call Tom 3264 if ??? 
HELPI I need one GRADUATION TICKET for my CUTE SISTER!!! Will pay $$$$$$$$! Please call Mike at 1082 
Hey Summer Campers!!! Have you 
salted your wombs lately? 
SOPHOMORES Applications lor Junior Parents' Weekend Chairperson available In Student Activities. Due Frfday, April 7 by 5 pm. 
SOPHOMORES!! 
TICKETS ON SALE TODAY FOR 
SPRING FORMAL FROM 3-5 IN THE 
SOPHOMORE CLASS OFFICE. DON'T 
MISS IT!! 
SOPHOMORES!! 
BP 
! SPIRIT WEEK ! 
APRIL 2-8 
BP BP BP BP BP BP BP 
page 11



[Ve ' 
~ 

Remember when Chicago was an hour behind us? Well, those times have changed. And so have United Limo's local departure and arrival times. 
So, clip out the new schedule below as a reminder. And the next time you need a reliable, comfortable ride to or from O'Hare, Midway or the Loop, call your favorite travel agent for reservations. Or call United Limo. We'll get you there. 
Ask about our improved service to Midway and the Loop! 
g 


United Limo 
TO O'HARE MIDWAY AIRPORTS & DOWNTOWN CHICAGO
' 

Reservations must 
LEAVE LEAVE LEAVE LEAVE LEAVE LEAVE ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE be made 24 hours 
HOLIDAY OSCEOLA TOWN & CTRY NOTRE MICHIANA laPORTE O'HARE MIDWAY CHICAGO WATER INN OFFICE SHOPPING DAME REGIONAL MICH CITY (All Terminals) AIRPORT CONGRESS HOTEL TOWER
in advance to 
ELKHART CENTER BUS AIRPORT AMOCO STA. Main Entrance PLACE 
assure seating 
MISHAWAKA SHELTER SOUTH BEND 1-94/20 & 35 Mich. & Congress 
. . .

2:30 a.m. 2:50a.m. 3:05a.m. 3:20a.m. 3:40a.m. 4:15a.m. 6:15a.m.
Allow One Hour 
4:30a.m. 4:50a.m. 5:05a.m. 5:20a.m. 5:40a.m. 6:15a.m. 8:15a.m. 7:45a.m. 7:40a.m. 7:55a.m. from our Arrival 
6:30a.m. 6:50a.m. 7:05a.m. 7:20a.m. 7:40a.m. 8:15 a.m. 10:15 a.m. 9:45a.m. 9:40a.m. 9:55a.m. Time to Flight Time 
8:30a.m. 8:50a.m. 9:05a.m. 9:20 a.m. 9:40a.m. 10:15 a.m. 12:15 p.m. 11:45 a.m. 11:40 a.m. 11:55 a.m. 
10:30 a.m. 10:50 a.m. 11:05 a.m. 11:20 a.m. 11:40 a.m. 12:15 p.m. 2:15p.m. 1:45 p.m. 1:40 p.m. 1:55 p.m. 
l 
12:30 p.m. 12:50 p.m. 1:05 p.m: 1:20 p.m. 1:40 p.m. 2:15 p.m. 4:15p.m. 3:45p.m. 3:40p.m. 3:55p.m. 2:30p.m. 4:30 p.m. 2:50 p.m. 3:05p.m. 3:20p.m. 3:40p.m. 4:15p.m. 6:15 p.m. 5:45p.m. 5:40p.m. 5:55p.m.
EFFECTIVE 
4:50p.m. 5:05 p.m. 5:20 p.m. 5:40 p.m. 6:15 p.m. 8:15p.m. 7:45p.m. 7:40p.m. 7:55p.m.
APRIL 2, 1989 thru 
6:30 p.m. 6:50p.m. 7:05 p.m. 7:20p.m. 7:40p.m. 8:15p.m. 10:15 p.m. 9:45p.m. 9:40p.m. 9:55p.m.
OCTOBER 28, 1989 

FROM O'HARE MIDWAY AIRPORTS & DOWNTOWN CHICAGO
.-­

' 

LEAVE DOWNTOWN CHICAGO 
ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE
LEAVE O'HARE 
LEAVE 

WATERTOWER CONGRESS HOTEL 
LA PORTE/ MICHIANA NOTRE TOWN & CTRY OSCEOLA HOLIDAY
(Lower Level) 
MIDWAY 
PLACE Congress &
UNITED CARSON'S 

MICH. CITY REGIONAL DAME SHOPPING OFFICE INN
AT 

TERMINAL RESTAURANT 
Chicago Ave. Michigan St. 

AMOCO STA. AIRPORT BUS CENTER ELKHART
DOLLAR 
RENT A CAR 

E. ol Michigan 
1-94/20 & 35 SOUTH BEND SHELTER MISHAWAKA
DOOR 1-G 
7:55a.m. 8:15a.m. 

9:40a.m. 10:35 a.m. 10:50 a.m. 11:05 a.m. 11:20 a.m. 11:35 a.m.
8:30a.m. 
8:15a.m. 8:30 a.m. 

11:40 a.m. 12:35 p.m. 12:50 p.m. 1:05 p.m. 1:20 p.m. 1:35 p.m.
9:55a.m. 10:15 a.m. 
10:30 a.m. 

10:15 a.m. 10:30 a.m. 
1:40 p.m. 2:35 p.m. 2:50p.m. 3:05p.m. 3:20p.m. 3:35p.m.
11:55 a.m. 12:15 p.m. 
12:30 p.m. 

12:15 p.m. 12:30 p.m. 
3:40p.m. 4:35p.m. 4:50p.m. 5:05p.m. 5:20p.m. 5:35p.m.
1:55 p.m. 2:15p.m. 
2:30p.m. 
2:15 p.m. 2:30p.m. 

5:40 p.m. 6:35p.m. 6:50p.m. 7:05p.m. 7:20p.m. 7:35p.m.
3:55 p.m. 4:15p.m. 
4:15p.m. 4:30p.m.
4:30p.m. 
5:55 p.m. 6:15 p.m. 

7:40p.m. 8:35p.m. 8:50p.m. 9:05p.m. 9:20p.m. 9:35p.m.
6:30p.m. 
6:15 p.m. 6:30 p.m. 
7:55 p.m. 8:15p.m. 

9:40 p.m. 10:35 p.m. 10:50 p.m. 11:05 p.m. 11:20 p.m. 11:35 p.m.
8:30 p.m. 
8:15p.m. 8:30p.m. 
9:55 p.m. 10:15 p.m. 

11:35 p.m. 12:15 a.m. 12:30 a.m. 12:45 a.m. 1:00 a.m. 1:15 a.m.
10:30 p.m. 

10:15 p.m. 10:30 p.m.
. .
.

11:55 p.m. 12:15 a.m. 
1:35 a.m. 2:15a.m. 2:30a.m. 2:45a.m 3:00a.m . 3:15a.m. 
*DENOTES NO MIDWAY OR DOWNTOWN CONNECTION All Arrivals & Departures on Local Time. SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. 
10844 McKinley Highway, P.O. Box 287 • Osceola, Indiana 46561• 219/674-6993 
United Limo 
We'll Get You There 

................................................................ 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday 

Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up 
and wish her a happy one. By the way 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing
11 LaFortune.
on pool tables tonight. 
ll 

NO softball splits pair of twinbills 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The women's softball team raised their record to 11-9 by picking up two wins last Friday and dropping a pair of games on Saturday. 
The Irish started their eight game homestand on a good note by rolling over the Ramblers of Loyola on both ends of a doubleheader, 5-1 and 12-2. Missy Linn pitched a com­plete game in the first contest to record another victory, striking out five and allowing only four hits. 
Despite not having any extra base hits, the Irish hit well. Laurie Sommerlad continued to excell at the lead off position, going three for four in the first game and driving in two of Notre Dame's runs. Marie Liddy was a perfect two for two and also drove in a run. 
"In the first game we came out and established ourselves," said head coach Brian Boulac. "We played extremely well, and Missy pitched an excep­tionally fine game." 
The second game was an easy win for the team as they took advantage of Loyola's wild pitcher who surendered eight walks and eight wild pitches. Boulac started some new faces and they did not dis­appoint him, scoring 12 runs. 
Dawn Boulac was one for 
two, driving in two runs and 
scoring another_ Monica Hel­
ler, Mia Faust, Terri Proksch 
and Stephanie Nomura also 
collected RBis for Notre 
Dame. 
The most important aspect of 
the game from Boulac's point 
of view was that Barb Mooney 
won the game, and hopefully is 
back on track for the team. 
Amy Raczkowski also pitched 
and inning so that Linn did not 
have to pitch at all in the second 
game. 
The second game against 
Loyola ran for only five in­
nings, and was called because 
of the 'ten-run rule' and be­
cause of darkness. 
The Irish were hoping for the same success on Saturday that they enjoyed against Loyola as they played Wisconsin-Green Bay in a doubleheader, but it was not to be. Wisconsin, one of the strongest teams in the midwest, played tough and swept Notre Dame by scores of 2-0 and 6-5. 
It was not hitting but pitching 
that doomed the Irish in the 
first game. Jodi Radies, the 
Wisconsin pitcher, shut Notre 
Dame out while pitching a com­
plete game. The Irish had only 
three hits. 
Meanwhile, Wisconsin took 
advantage of two miscues by 
Notre Dame players. Starting 
pitcher Linn hit a batter, and 
the batter later scored. An­
other player reached on an er­
ror and also scored, accounting 
for both Wisconsin runs. 
The doubleheader on Sunday against McHenry College was cancelled due to injwies on the opposing team, but the Irish still have two games scheduled today against neighbors to the north, Southwest Michigan. The game will take place at 
3:30 on the softball diamond be­hind the Eck Pavillion. 
Monday, April 3, 1989 

page 12 The Observer 
ND tennis falls to Ball State 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
MUNCIE --During the three­hour ride home on Saturday night to South Bend, Irish head coach Bob Bayliss turned to his team and said, "Remember how losing like this feels be­cause you are not going to feel this way for a long time." 
Nobody knows if they will feel this way soon or not but one thing is for sure, the Notre Dame men's tennis team will not soon forget their disap­pointing 7-2 loss to Ball St. Moreover, the squad will not soon forget that in a little over an hour of play the 15-9 Irish were down an insurmountable 3-0 deficit, dropping all three doubles' contests. Because of the absence of one-half of the No.1 doubles teams, Mike Wal­lace, Bayliss was forced to scramble his lineup. 
"I don't believe in making a big deal about Wallace's ab­sence," said Bayliss. "You have to play with the people that are able to play. Losing the first three matches put us on the defensive. I didn't think it was impossible to win the match, but everybody walked on the court with a little extra pressure." 
The makeshift No. 1 duo of Dave DiLucia-Walter Dolhare who is ranked No. 31 in the na­tion was suprised by the un­ranked Cardinal duo of John Nobel and Stefano Demarchi gruelling three set contest, 4-6, 6-2, 4-6. 
"Losing No. 1 doubles really suprised me," said a stunned Bayliss. "I expected to win at No.1, and be competitive in the other two matches. It was the first time will played doubles first. This wasn't a normal doubles lineup but that it isn't a good excuse." 
The only two Irish victories came at the No. 1 and No. 2 slots. Despite a sub-par perfor­mance, No. 1 Dave DiLucia earned a straight-set win over John Nobel, 6-3, 7-5. For the No. 51 player in collegiate tennis, it was his 20th consecutive com­plete singles victory. At the No. 2 position, junior Walter Dol­hare rebounded from dropping the first set to win in decisive fashion in three sets, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, over the Cardinal's Stefano Demarchi. 
For the 15-9 Irish, the loss marks the sixth defeat on the 
) 


graduate student union 
Officers 1989-90 
The Graduate Student Union is interested in dynamic graduate students to be GSU officers for the 1989-90 academic year, and the 1989 Summer Session. 
The Graduate Student Union is interested in dynamic graduate students to be GSU officers for the 1989-90 academic year, and the 1989 Summer Session. 
Positions available are: SECRETARY, INFORMATION OFFICER, and SOCIAL OFFICER. 
Applications and job descriptions are available from the GSU office, Room 307, LaFortune Student Centre. 
road as well as the third loss to an important regional foe. Pre­viously, Notre Dame has fallen to Wisconson, Miami (Ohio) and now Ball St. 
"I think we lost some win­nable matches but that is called playing on the road , and it is playing a team of roughly equal ability," said Bayliss. "Play­ing on their indoor courts is al­ways a difficult chore." 
In fact, Ball St. head coach Bill Richards was even suprised about the decisive­ness of his team's 11th of the season. 
" To tell you the truth, I would have been the happiest guy in the world to get a 5-4 victory," said Richards. "1 never expected to win all three doubles. I expected to go down to the last match. I was never confident until we got that fifth point." 
And how will this disappoint­ing loss affect the Irish in their four remaining matches and the MCC Tournament? 
"It was a match we could have won," reasoned Dave DiLucia. "Obviously, it hurts a little bit, it was a tough loss but this team has enough character to come together." 
Associated Press 

TACOMA, Wash. Olympic veteran Bridgette Gordon scored 16 of her 27 points in the first half, and Tenneessee shut down Auburn star Vickie Orr in the second half as the Lady Volunteers won their second national women's champi­onship in three years with a 76-60 victory Sunday. 
Tennessee rallied from an early five-point deficit to defeat its Southeastern Con­ference rival for the second time in three meetings this season, and they sent the Lady Tigers home as the second-place finisher for the second year in a row. 
Gordon, a member of the 
U.S. olympic team that won the gold medal at the Seoul Olympics, also helped Ten­nessee win the 1987 NCAA title. The Lady Volunteers finished 35-2, their best record ever. 
Auburn, which lost to 
Tennessee captures women's national title 
Louisiana Tech 56-54 in last year's championship game, stayed with Tennessee for three-fourths of the game, but eventually succumbed to the Lady Volunteers' intense man-to-man defense in the final 10 minutes. 
Gordon did most of her scoring on baseline jump shots over Auburn's zone defense and got help from two youngsters--freshman point guard Dena Head and sophomore reserve Daedra 
Charles. 
Head scored 15 of her 19 points in the second half and Charles added 13 points, in­cluding five in a 13-2 second half run that gave Tennessee control of the game. 
Orr, a three-time All­American, scored 10 points in the first half, but Tennees­see's 6-foot-4 Sheila Frost blocked two of her shots in the first 8 : 50 of the second half and that seemed to frustrate the 6-3 senior. She finished with 16 points. 

Happy
I21 st, 
Vall ·····Come and,. get her!
PREGNANT 
MOTHERS: 

PLWE Love, DON'T SMOKE! Your two daughters 
CANCER SOCIE'TY" 

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESENTS A SERIES OF LECTURES BY PROFESSOR ONORA O'NEILL DEPARTMENT OF PHILOSOPHY UNIVERSITY OF ESSEX 
Monday, April 3, 8:00 P.M. "Reasons and Politics in the Kantian Enterprise" Room 131 -Decio Hall 
(sponsored by the Philosophy Department) 
Tuesday, April 4, 4:00P.M. "Justice and Virtues" Room 220 -Law School Auditorium 
(sponsored by the Natural Law Forum) 
Wednesday, April 5, 12:00 noon 
"Paternalism and Partial Autononmy"Room 220 -Law School Auditorium (sponsored by the Thomas J. White Center) 
Thursday, April 6, 4:00P.M. " Gender and Moral Theory" Room 115 -Law School 
(sponsored by the Gender Studies Program) 
Spring 
continued from page 16 
Holtz and his assistants vigorously blew their whistles, indicating a stoppage of play. Defensive tackle Chris Zorich hit Rice just as the whistles sounded, and the junior quar­terback emerged from the pileup with a noticeable limp. 
"We don't protect Tony any more than we do anyone else," said Holtz, despite evidence to the contrary. "We need to be more than one dimensional on offense. We threw the ball more today than we have." 
Rice completed 7-of-13 passes for 97 yards on the day, despite a slow start. He hit Wat­ters over the middle for a 30­yard touchdown on a pattern similar to the one where he was hit by Terrell. 
Fullback Anthony Johnson also scored on an 11-yard run early in the scrimmage. 
Holtz devoted the beginning of practice strictly to the kick­ing game. Placekicker Billy Hackett, who converted a 30­yard field goal in the scrimmage, made seven of 11 attempts with punter Jim Sex­ton holding. Sexton recovered from a slow start to average 43 
on five 
('uft//J/I'f/tK/t/IH/fl'f\IJ/11///II'I'/11/III'/'IJI,/Ifllllfll ftlwtt /t'W'IMJIIIwdrr't/.\ hnmdl'l'.\ /f lftlll f~tlt'l "fii/W <J•Im'lltllf'luhPl}J !/fllltmlfhllttl~t•m.Jmml'f/ 
~· 

The Observer page 13 1 
I 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
----.L-=-Y~ ­
-Ih--e-0-bse---~~er-·-_ 
is holding a meeting for all current and prospective 
News Reporters 
Wednesday, AprilS, at7:30 p.m. at The Observer Office in Lafortune 
This meeting is mandatory for all current reporters and those interested in getting started at The Observer. 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS------....,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT: 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
family haircutters I

L-------------------, 
~ $1 ?e~~ STUDJ~~! 
Women's tennis rolls against weekend foes 
By VIC LOMBARDI higan. We just had more inten­Sports Writer sity and aggressiveness." Barton won yesterday's The Notre Dame women's number-two singles match 6-3, 
tennis team extended their 7-5 but lost in three sets 7-5, 5-7, dual-match win streak to eight 6-3 to SIU's Portia George. In as they dominated Eastern the number-three slot, fresh­
Michigan (8-1) and beat SIU­man Katie Clark triumphed 6­Edwardsville (5-2) after the 2, 6-1 and defeated her SIU op­Lady Cougars defaulted four ponent 6-1, 0-3 after an injury matches. forced her to default. 
"It has just been an outstand­"Katie Clark has beening weekend," said an elated showing a tremendous amountNotre Dame coach Michele of improvement in the past fewGelfman. "We had a few weeks," said Gelfman. "I thinkmatches here and there that 

Rolfs Aquatic Center will be open additionally from 4 to 6:30 p.m. weekdays. A long course (50 m) set-up will be in place Tues­day and Thursday during these hours. -The Ob­server 
lrishOutdOOI'SwillhaveameetingTuesday, April 4, at 7:30p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. Plans for the April 22 Dunes trip and a post-exam trip to Cumberland Island will be discussed -The Observer 
Ultimate Frisbee will have late signups today from 7 to 9 p.m., in the SUB office at Lafortune. Call Tom at x3281 for more infor­mation. -The Observer 
SMC-NDwomen'slacrossewillpractice at 4:15 p.m. today outside at SMC. Call Kathy at 284-5482 or Maria at x2577 for more informa­tion. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball teams may pick up schedules and rules from 2 to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday at the SUB office. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Baseball squad sweeps St. Louis 
Special to The Observer Rain forced the postpone­the doubleheader's only extra­many times Katie has been
were a bit spotty, but on the

ment of Sunday's scheduled base hit. 
overshadowed by the number­
whole the girls played out­

Erik Madsen hurled a two­doubleheader between the two Saint Louis (5-12) managed one and two players, but she
standing tennis. I think we're

hitter and James Sass had both teams. just two hits in each of Satur­
has made a lot of contributions
really starting to peak at the

game-winning RBI as the With a fierce wind blowing day's games. Madsen shut out to the team."
right time."

Notre Dame baseball team re­throughout the doubleheader, the Billikens in the first game, 
The Irish improved their

corded a 1-0, 6-2 doubleheader Saturday's two games saw a and Mike Coffey saved Mike The 20th ranked doubles
overall season mark to 61-38

sweep of Saint Louis on the total of only 12 hits. James Sass Passilla's victory in the second team of Cahill and Barton
and have been victorious in 11

road. doubled in the second game for game. didn't get a chance to play
of the last 13 matches.

Sass drove in the first game's SIU's highly lauded tandem of
In singles play, CeCe Cahill,

only run when his third-inning Bukelund and George since the 
Katie Clark, Kim Pacella and

groundout scored shortstop Pat Irish had already clinched the 
Cathy Bradshaw each were

Pesavento. In the nightcap, match before the doubles com­
victorious in both matches.

Sass drove in three runs with petition. But against the a two-run double in the first in­Cahill, the number-62 singles Hurons, the duo crushed their ning and an RBI single in the player in the nation, defeated opponents in a quick 6-1, 6-2 out­second. SIU-Edwardsville's number­ing. 
The senior outfielder from one singles Christina Bukeland "It was one of our best Louisville, Ky., now leads the 6-1, 7-6 (7-2) and Eastern Mic­matches in a while," said Bar­Irish with a .393 average and higan's ace Marta Varanda 6-1, ton. "We started off pretty poor 
has knocked in 18 runs with 6-0 to extend her overall record but once we started to focus we four gamewinning RBI in his to 21-5. gained the momentum. We last six games. "I felt kind of sluggish yes­have to keep playing at this 
Madsen allowed two runners terday," said Cahill, who on pace to get to the NCAA's." to reach scoring position in the Friday came back from 5-0 in first game to improve his the second set to edge Bukeland Also in yesterday's competi­record to 4-1. Passilla went to 7-6 in the tie-breaker. "But the tion, the doubles teams of team, as a whole, played a lot
2-1 and Coffey earned his fifth Clark-Pacella and Bradshaw­
save in the second game. better against Eastern Mic-Resa Kelly won their matches 
I'm so excited. Yahoo. Happy Birthday, Bea! 
Love,· Us 

6-1, 7-6 (7-3) and 3-6, 6-2, 6-4, respectively. 
The Irish begin a regional swing that opens this weekend with Ohio State and Michigan State at the Eck Pavillion. Gelfman says her team is anx­ious to play some of the tougher Big Ten squads, especially since the ITCA poll dropped the Irish from fourth to tenth in the ranks. 
"There's no way that we should have been dropped that low with the way we're playing right now," said Gelfman. "At this point we've just negated the poll. We're just worried about going out and letting our rackets speak for themselves.'' 
ND Finance Club 
presents 

THE THIRTY-FIRST ANNUAL FINANCE FORUM 
MONDAY, APRIL 3 AT 4:00pm MONTGOMERY THEATER LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
TOPIC: THE CHANGING ROLE OF COMMERCIAL BANKS 
IN A DEREGULATED ENVIRONMENT 

SPEAKERS: JAMES P. CONLEY 
r------------~------1 VICE-PRESIDENT-SPECIAL INDUSTRIES
!$5 OFF ANY~~ ! 
and MEL ROBINSON 

DIRECTOR-PRIVATE PLACEMENT GROUP 
~------------------~ 
OF PITTSBURGH NATIONAL BANK PNC FINANCIAL CORPORATION
MasterCLJis 
family haircutters 
PLEASE ATTEND

277-3770 
page 14 The Observer Monday, April 3, 1989 
Sluggish Irish lacrosse squad edges Wooster 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
COLUMBUS, Ohio --The Notre Dame lacrosse team was twice derailed before getting back on track to hold off Wooster College 8-7 here Satur­day. 
The Irish (4-3) were originally scheduled to play the Fighting Scots in Wooster, which is 50 miles north of Co­lumbus, but six inches of snow at Wooster forced the game to be moved to Buckeye Stadium. 
That wasn't the only surprise awaiting the Irish, though, as the Scots took advantage of an Irish letdown to keep the out­come continually in doubt. 
Wooster (3-4) gathered in more ground balls than Notre Dame and split the faceoffs with the Irish on its way to al­most pulling off the upset. Notre Dame usually has the edge on ground balls and faceoffs and failure in those areas has usually signalled an Irish defeat. 
But accodding to Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan, a lack of intensity following Wednes­day's emotional win over Air Force was most to blame for the lackluster effort. 
"For the most part we dominated in possession, al­though the ground balls gave them some possession," Cor­rigan said. "Our problem was just that the intensity was not there. That was reflected all over the field and caused the game to be as close as it was." 
The Irish were again led by the scoring of junior Brian McHugh and senior tri-captain John Olmstead, who each have 20 points for the season. The two attackmen combined for four of the last five Irish goals as McHugh had three goals in the game and Olmstead chipped in two goals and an as­sist. 
Olmstead's three points gave him 127 career points and moved him into third place on the Irish all-time scoring list, behind Bob Trocchi's 143 points and Joe Franklin's 161. 
Freshman goalie Tom Duane started his first game for the Irish, coming up with eight saves on 24 Wooster shots. Duane started strong, saving the first four Wooster shots. But the Scots struck back in the third quarter, scoring three goals in two minutes to deplete a comfortable 7-3 Irish lead. 
Scots' defensive midfielder Chris Dumont started the Wooster rally by scoring a fast­break goal with 3:40 left in the third quarter. Midfielder Steve Spitzer then found the Irish net 40 seconds later before Wooster attackman Steve Davidson scored his third of four goals, again on a fast break, with 1:35 remaining in the quarter. 

"The fact that Wooster scored most of their goals off transition plays shows that we weren't in the game mentally,'' explained senior tri-captain defenseman Kevin O'Connor. "Most of the times we simply were not in the right place where we should have been." 
Nonetheless, the Irish held on for the win on Olmstead's second goal with 9: 32 to play. The Notre Dame defense helped the effort in a big way, as they held off three Wooster man-up situations in the final quarter. . 

But the outcome still was not assured as Davidson scored his fourth goal for the Scots with :45 remaining. Several at­tempts by Wooster to get a game-tying score failed, though, as the Irish escaped with a win they said they knew should never have been that close. 
"We had some problems but the bottom line is that we won the game, and we won't slit our throats over a game we win," Corrigan said. "We made some plays that we needed to make, and that's important for a young team. 
"Early in the year we lost some games like this and that just shows that we've improved and have learned something from the earlier defeats." 
The Irish host Kenyon Col­lege Saturday at Edward W. "Moose" Krause Stadium. The Lords lost only two players off of last year's squad that lost 8-7 to the Irish in double overtime. 

Finals 
continued from page 16 
basket by Sean Higgins. The Wolverines' first success against the Fighting Illini this season in three meetings. 
Glen Rice led Michigan in scoring against Illinois with 28 points and he has 153 points in the tournament, 25 short of Bill Bradley's mark set with Princeton in 1965. 
Rice has shot 59.4 percent from the field, including a 22­for-37 mark from 3-point range. 
"I jumped on Glen Rice's back before the tournament and he's carried me this far," Fisher said. 
Seton Hall picked things up more than one notch in its semi­final victory over Duke. 
The Pirates trailed 26-8 12 minutes into the game and they looked more like one of P .J. car­lesimo's early teams at the New Jersey school when it was common for them to be the doormat of the Big East Con­ference. 
"I think we're getting respect and that comes from the kids playing unselfishly," Carlesimo said. "Defense is a big part of our game and that is critical for is to be success­ful." 
The defense has especially shined for the Pirates in the second half of their five NCAA victories as no team has managed to shoot better than 40 percent in the second half. 
Center Ramon Ramos credits the team's depth with the second-half success. 
"I don't think we do anything consciously about playing bet­ter defense in the second half," he said. "We have a real deep bench and they keep us fresh. 
98-36 in the tournament. 
"It's not unusual during a game to see more starters on the bench than on the floor," Carlesimo said. "We also know we can spread the scoring around because we have guys who can score 20 points one night and five the next but they still contribute." 

Culf/~atu.l'atlol(~ dl(?f'~ elf/~lf(el(t Ttitr & Ltirrla 1111tie btAft 
Lou-e, 
LMee, !toft,, Joe, Ole«;, e~ra1 Je, Lo~l(e, &-TJ,e Afoo&-e 

ATTENTION FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES 
DEPARTMENT PRESENTATIONS 
Monday 4t3  
4:30-5:30 AEi'ALPP  104 O'Shaughnessy  
Music  103 Crowley  
German & Russian  115 O'Shaughnessy  

Romance Languages 215O'Shaughnessy 
6:30-7:30 Mathematics 115 O'Shaughness 
7-8 Theology 215 O'Shaughnessy ALPA 104 O'Shaughnessy 8-9 History 104 O'Shaughnessy 
·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 
%e 1\pacf oftlie J{eart s'Desire 
A retreat weekend directed by Father John Dunne, CSC t 
WliEN:  April 7-9, 1989  
WH~ERE:  Crowe House  
CONTA.CT:  Cantpus Ministry Office  
239-5242  
COST:  $10.00 per person  

I

Sign up extended to April 6 I Openings available I

----..-I 

Lake Michigan I 
I 
I
(Badin Hall) 
OFFICE OF 
0MPUS 
MNISTRY 
University of Notre Dame 

When guys come in they keep the same intensity and we're fresh when we come back in." 
The Seton Hall reserves have outscored the opponents' subs 
NJtre Dame, IN 46556 
Library Concourse 219•239-6536 Badin Hall 219•239-5242 

Monday, April 3, 1989 The Observer 
page 15 

LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
8 p.m. AT&T Visiting Scholar series presents "The Battle for Human Nature," by Barry Schwartz, Swarthmore College, in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
8:15p.m. Graduate Student Union and the Center for Social Concerns present "The Spiritual and Cultural Question of the Lakota Sioux," by Michael O'Malley, Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Cheese French Toast Roast Turkey Baked Sole Sweet & Sour Pork Top Round of Beef Romaine Rice & Veggies Baked Potato Bar Deli Bar 


vehicle 47High­25 Competent 
36 Sand (gesture of 26 Hebrew body of triumph)
38 Repulsive guylaw 
48 "-Lisa"

39 Young Seaver's 27 Strength or receiver 49 Cry heard on talent, informally April15
41 Time-honored 28 Layers of paint favorite 50 Have the lead 
53 Jinx sidekick -!" 54 Zilch 
29 Lone Ranger's 42 "That's the 
COMICS 
BLOOM COUNTY 
BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..;..+:;+::::~ 
47 Datum 
48 Jan., Feb., etc. 
51 "-lay..me down ... 
52 What fraidy-cats do 
55 Sheltered at sea 
56 River-bank landing 
57 Peruvian Indian 
58-diem 
59 Put forth effort 
60 A memorable Bert 
DOWN 
1 Cries out loud 2 Ex-Yankee 
manager 3 Sole 4Chum 5 Produces a play 6 Display 7 Stir-fry vessels 8-themark 9 Elective 
1 0 Advice to an insomniac 11 "-ofthe Thousand Days" 12 Piece of wampum 15 Actress Glenn 
ACROSS 

1 Hunt for bargains 5 Took care of 10 Hack 13 Chaplin's widow 14 Boy Scout unit 15lce-cream container 16 Up day on Wall Street 18 Breed of moth 19 Milieu of some divers 20 Turkish chiefs 21 Pressed 23 Mouse, to an owl 24 Fight with lances 
25 Acropolis site 28 Bouts 31 Blackmore's 
"Lorna-" 32 Soft drinks 33 Torrid 34 Goofs 35 Kind of blazer 36 Wilder or Fowler 37 Faux­38 Greece's largest 
island 39 Garbo 40 Theses 42 Photographer's 
stand 43 Spunk 44 Mob scene 45 Poorly made 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATTERSON 
+\~~ susiE, 

~5Es qRE:. REd, 
A<lUp CRiMSoN \NE.. 
'N\.18.1 '(o\J Got il-l 'fov SvRt 'N£RE too .' 
"Q! Hq! C<li'JiN 

"And another thing  ...  I want  you  to  be  
more  assertive.  ...  I'm  tired  of  everyone  
calling  you  Alexander  the  Pretty-Good!"  

American Values IAmerican Film Discussion with Panel Discussion with mon, Martin Gene april 3 Sheen Siskel Tues, April 4 Thurs. April 6 Tickets for both discussions available at LaFortune Info Deskall events at Cushing Auditorium sponsored by College of Business Administration, Departments of English,American Studies, Student ~ Sociology,Comm.&Theater,Marketing, Educational Media Government ~  


f 
! 
I 
I I 
' 
---~--------------­
Sports
page 16 Monday, April 3, 1989 
The Observer 1 Matt Mittino 

The Primitive Bushmen exhibit one of their various offenses in the Hall of Fame game Sunday. In this offense, the Bushmen surrounded the ballhandler and protected him against the opposing defense. 
Record field set for tourney; Fame team survives antics 
By FRANK PASTOR and GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editors 
The dream begins today for a record 672 teams in Bookstore Basketball XVIII. 
320 teams will take to the 
courts this week in prelimi­
nary rounds to cut the field 
to 512 hopefuls. It's an an­
nual spring rite at Notre 
Dame, perhaps the only 
event that draws interest 
from every walk of campus 
life. 
But the real story in this tournament is the tradition, most notably playing all games outdoors in any wea­ther condition. Last year, teams played in rain, snow, strong winds and sunshine during the first four days. 
"Rain is the great equalizer," Bookstore Com­missioner Mike Manning said. "It puts teams at a dis­advantage. It slows teams down, and players cannot count on the outside shot be­cause of the high winds." 
But rain did not keep the favored team from winning Sunday's Hall of Fame game. The Hall of Fame team downed the Primitive Bushmen 21-12 in the annual affair. 
The Bushmen were out­matched from the beginning and didn't try hiding the fact. They set the tone for the game when they first ap­peared on the court dressed in grass skirts. 
The Bushmen were long on gimmicks and short on virtually all of their shots, converting only 12-of-47 at­tempts from the field. Irish 


Irish impress Holtz in first scrimmage 
By FRANK PASTOR Assistant Sports Editor 

Football was meant to be 
played outdoors. 

That is why it seemed so odd 
to see Notre Dame training in­
side the Loftus Sports Center 
when spring practice opened on 
March 16. 

The team returned to its ele­
ment Saturday afternoon at its 
first official scrimmage of the 
spring season outdoors in Notre 
Dame Stadium. The Irish wel­
comed the change by playing 
just under two hours of inspired 
football under the watchful eye 
of Head Coach Lou Holtz. 
One might think it would be difficult to get motivated for a spring scrimmage, especially after winning the National Championship the previous year. 
Guess again. 

The Irish came out hitting on Saturday. And running. And throwing. All the while havitng a remarkably good time. 
Holtz alternated between the first-and second-team offense and defense, giving the veter­ans work and the younger players a chance to prove themselves. · 
And while it is still early, many Irish reserves took ad­vantage of the opportunity and caught the attention of Holtz, who generously distributed ac­colades following the scrim­mage. 
"The defensive ends and out­side linebackers got better as the scrimmage went along," Holtz said. "(Cornerbacks) Todd Lyght and David Jandric (replacing Stan Smagala, who pulled a muscle) showed up well, which was encouraging. (Free safety) Pat Terrell made some plays when the opportu­nity was there. 
"But our offensive line--the longer we were out there, the more we seemed to lose our rhythm. We're not as consis­tent at tailback as we need to be." 
Terrell set the tone for the scrimmage when he levelled tailback Ricky Watters as he juggled a pass thrown over the middle by quarterback Tony Rice. 
Freshman tailback Kenny Spears broke loose on a couple of occasions, once taking a pass from Pete Graham on the run, eluding a couple of defenders and streaking down the sideline for a score. 
Defensive linemen Troy Ridgley, George Williams and Jeff Alm made their presence known in the offensive back­field all afternoon long. Minutes after sacking backup quarterback Kent Graham, Ridgley tipped a pass from Steve Belles and then pulled it down for the interception. Wil­liams sacked Belles late in the scrimmage and then recovered a fumble jarred loose by Alm, who also knocked down a pass from Rice. 
Rice, who was an untouch­able until Saturday, took his first hits of the spring season. He scrambled up the middle on one play and when a couple of defenders zeroed in on him, 
see SPRING I page 12 

Michigan, Seton Hall set for title showdown 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE --Steve Fisher has brought as much attention to the word interim as he has to the Michigan basketball team he has been coaching for the past five games. 
The storybook career of interim--there's that word again--head coach Fisher ends Monday night with the national championship game against Seton Hall regardless of the outcome. 
The final game of the entire college basketball season is an unlikely place for an interim coach to be and until last ' season it was just as an un­likely place for a Seton Hall team to be. 
Fisher's story started 48 hours before the tournament began when Bill Frieder was fired by Michigan after agree­ing to take over as the head co­
NCAA 
Championship Scores from the Past Ten Years 

1979 Michigan State 75, Indiana State 64 1980 louisville 59, UCLA 54 1981 Indiana 63, North Carolina 50 1982 North Carolina 63, Georgetown 62 1983 North Carolina State 54, Houston 52 1984 Georgetown 84, Houston 75 1985 Villanova 66, Georgetown 64 1986 louisville 72, Duke 69 1987 Indiana 74, Syracuse 73 1988 Kansas 83, Oklahoma 79 
football coach Lou Holtz, quarterback Tony Rice and ticket manager Bubba Cun­ningham were the object of most of their barbs. 
One of the most memorable moments of the contest occurred when Cun­ningham was accosted by a swarm of Bushmen demand­ing that he furnish an ID, the irony of which was not lost 
see FAME I page 10 

Men fencers take fourth in nation 
Special to The Observer competition--the third and final Columbia won the men's title event. with 88 points. Penn State was The Notre Dame men's fen­"We were hoping for a better second at 85, Penn third at 70 
cing team finished fourth in the placing for the team and also and Notre Dame fourth at 69. NCAA Championships Satur­
hoping for a better perfor­Columbia's Jon Normile won day in Evanston, Ill. 
mance from each of our indi­the epee individual title. 
viduals, but as we've seen hope The women's competition got 
Irish fencers Ted Fay and alone is not enough to win at under way Sunday, with Notre Todd Griffee finished 12th and the NCAAs," Irish coach Mike Dame facing North Carolina 18th respectively in the epee DeCicco said. and Penn State. 
ach at Arizona State next season. Since then, the Wol­verines have not only not lost but they have played their best basketball of the season and their best of any recent NCAA tournament. 
"Timing is everything and I jumped in at the right time," Fisher said Sunday, adding that he will not talk to Michigan athletic director and football coach Bo Schembechler about the head coaching position until 
AP/H. Yarrington 
after the championship game. "We have not been lucky in the tournament the last six years. Balls bounced off instead of in. We've gotten lucky but the players have put themselves ·in position to win games." 
The five victories included Saturday's breakneck 83-81 victory over Big Ten rival Illi­nois on a last-second rebound 
see FINALS I page 14 




