
---~------~ 

Snow?
IACCENT: Cavanaugh Hall's new play Mostly cloudy and mild today with a chance of showers. High near 50. Mostly cloudy tonight also with a
IVIEWPOINT: Computer lab closings 
chance of rain or snow. 


VOL. XXII, NO. 108 THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 1989 
-· --the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Dem. Long wins 4th district seat 
Associated Press involved in a tax raise," said Brad Senden, a consultant to 
FORT WAYNE--Local Long's campaign. "So he was politics overwhelmed even immediately involved in a con­heavy White House campaign­tradiction." ing in a special congressional Heath was safety director un­election where Democrats der Fort Wayne Mayor Paul wrested away the seat once Helmke, who recently en­held by Vice President Dan gineered the passage of a 0.2 Quayle. percent city income tax and 
sought annexation of a
National reaction, 
Republican-dominated county
page 4 
township, a move that would 
Jill Long, a business profes­mean higher property tax sor, used two county tax issues rates. in her successful race against Long used both issues in her 
~•• 

GOP opponent Dan Heath, a advertising, claiming the ad-• former city official. ministration's tactics belied •••••• Long's 1,700-vote margin Heath's campaign promise not 
•

reversed her fortunes from last to support tax increases. fall, when she lost the district In his concession speech, AP Photo 
. race by 50,000 votes. Heath conceded the attacks Jill Long wins the fourth district congressional seat, margin of 50,000 votes to incumbent Dan Coats who "(Heath) wanted to take the hurt his candidacy. "There are defeating Republican Dan Heath by 1,700 votes. left to fill the Senate seat vacated by Vice President George Bush tax pledge, but he Long lost the race for the same seat last fall by a Dan Quayle. 
• 2 Czech teens hijack plane; later surrender 
Associated Press lounge, fired several shots and threatened a stewardess. 
FRANKFURT, West About 100 people were re­Germany--Two Czechoslovak ported to be on Tupolev-154 of teen-agers shot their way onto the Hungarian airline Malev a jetliner Wednesday in Prague when the hijackers, aged 15 and and ordered it to the United 16, seized it about 10 a.m. States, but the crew convinced Oswald Neumann, a them it ~uldn't fly that far and Frankfurt police spokesman, they gave up in Frankfurt. said passengers reported that 
They surrendered when one youth fired a "warning American military would not shot'' out the door of the plane let them enter the U.S. Air before takeoff that ''was not Force base adjacent to aimed at anyone ... went into Frankfurt's commercial air­the air." port. Official Hungarian and Czec­
Police said no one was hurt hoslovak news agencies gave and the incident ended peace­the ages of the hijackers and fully less than three hours after said they initially demanded to its violent start in the Czechos­be flown to the United States. lovak capital, where nearly all The Hungarian agency MTI passengers were freed. said Lajos Taba, Hungarian

Plane Hi-jacking Witnesses at Ruzyne Airport consul general in Prague, West German border police mount a gangway to two armed youngsters in Prague Wednesday. The in Prague said the teen-agers boarded the aircraft and 
took a woman hostage, crashed

inspect the cockpit of the Malev (Hungarian air lines) hi-jackers, after landing, surrendered. The crew and 
through a glass wall of the VIP see HIJACK, page 4

Tupolev-154 passenger plane which was hijacked by about 10 passengers were unharmed. 
Victory Cheer 
had been in an administration see LONG, page 4 

Graduation tickets ready in April 
By CHRISTINE WALSH  tickets will most likely be in the  After all ticket requests are  
Staff Reporter  lower arena of the Joyce ACC,  filled, a lottery will be held to  
said Kil. Requests for blocks of  distribute  any  extra  tickets  
Commencement  tickets  for  four tickets will be filled last.  that become available.  
graduating seniors  and  their  "It is  not  guaranteed  that  In  order  to  be  eligible  to  
families  will  be available in  those requesting four  tickets  receive extra tickets, students  
mid-April, according to David  will receive all four tickets in  will be required to fill out a re­ 
Kil, assistant registrar.  a block together," although all  quest form, which will be used  
Ticket  applicationS'tequest  efforts will be made to make  for the lottery, said Kil.  
forms were due before Easter  that possible, said Kil.  Certain seats in the J ACC will  
break and are currently being  Other than the priority sys­ be "reserved for faculty mem­ 
considered.  Requests  will be  tem based on  the number of  bers  and  guests of honorary  
honored on a priority basis.  tickets requested, "seating as­ degree recipients," said Kil.  
Students could request from  signments will be by random  As in prior years, the May 21  
one  to four tickets each, and  selection," he said.  ceremonies will be broadcast  
enough tickets are set aside for  According to Kil, ticket ap­ on  closed-circuit television in  
every student to get the maxi­ plications  that  are  received  several rooms in the Center for  
mum of four tickets, said Kil.  late  will  be  considered  only  Continuing Education,  accor­ 
Requests for only one ticket  after  all  other  requests  are•  ding to Office of University Re­ 
will be filled first, and those  filled.  lations.  




'Rain. Man' winner on Oscar night 
Associated Press an award to Ronald Bass 
and Barry. Morrow for their 
LOS ANGELES-'~Rain original screenplay. Chris~ 
ManJ',.··the box:.office smash topher . Hampton's adapta" 
about a conniving car sales­tion of }lis play "Dangerous 
man who .learns· to love his Liaisons'' won for best 
autistic brother> won the Os­adaptation~ • 
car as best picture Wednes­Geena Davis, ·the free­
day night and brought top spirited· dog trainer in HThe 
honors for actor Dustin Hof * Accidental Tourist'' and 
fman and director Barry Kevin Kline, the wild*eyed, 
Levinson. oversexed safecracker in ''A 
Jodie Foster, the victim of Fish Called Wanda," were 
a gang rape in "The Ac­surprise winners in support .. 
cused," was named best ing roles at the 61st 
actress. 
'~Rain Man'' also brought see OSCAR, ·page 7 

-~ -------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, March 30, 1989
The Observer 


IN BRIEF 



Ex-superstars subject of 
Thomas Gordon Smith, an internationally known neoclassicist who teaches at the University of Illinois, Chicago, will be the new chairman of the University of 

'what ever became of...' 
Notre Dame School of Architecture, it was announced by Provost Timothy O'Meara. Smith, who received a B.A. in a painting and sculputre and a master of architecture degree from the University of California, Berkeley, has been an associate professor at the University of Illinois, Chicago, since September 1986 and will come to Notre Dame at the rank of full professor. He has also taught at UCLA and Yale University. His appointment is effective at the beginning of the 1989-90 academic year, and he succeeds Robert L. Amico, who will return to teaching and research. -The Observer 
Pessimists won't be holding their annual convention this year. The Benevolent and Loyal Order Of Pessimists has cancelled the yearly meeting because it wouldn't have been any fun, and besides, "Traditions require too much optimism," says President Jack Duvall. The group has been meeting each year since 1975 on a weekend closest to April 15, income tax day and also the anniversary of the sinking of the Titanic, which Duvall calls "a monument to optimism." "We just don't think you should get un­realistic hopes up," Duvall said. "You'll only make your­self unhappy." Duvall, which is not his real name, said he didn't want to divulge his identity or have his picture taken because he was worried about losing his job. · 

OF INTEREST 
Cavanaugh Hall Productions presents Woody Allen's "Don't Drink the Water," today, Friday, and Sat­urday at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
-The Observer 
A representative from Zimbabwe will be speaking at a meeting for the Overseas Development Network con­cerning the project and Grass Roots Development. The meeting will be held at the Center for Social Concerns tonight at 8 p.m. -The Observer 
Jesuit volunteer recruiter Kim McCombs will be on campus today to talk to students interested in doing volunteer work after graduation. She will be in the Res­burgh Library Concourse in the morning and at the Center for Social Concerns from 1-5 p.m. -The Observer 
Seniors interested in teaching after graduation should talk to Sister Deanna in the Hesburgh Library Con­course this morning or in the Center for Social Concerns from 1-5 p.m. -The Observer 
A Hospitality Lunch featuring Mexican food is being held at the Center for Social Concerns today between 11: 30 
a.m. and 1 p.m. -The Observer 
For all Clubs and Organizations, the last day to spend allocated club funds is Friday, April21, 1989. There will be no exceptions. Any questions should be directed to the Student Government Treasurer's Office at 239-7417 be­tween noon and 4 p.m. -The Observer 
Senior class is looking for seniors interested in helping serve dinner at the Shelter for the Homeless for the senior class service project. If interested contact the senior class office at 239-5136. -The Observer 
Les Miserable tickets for seniors for the 
Wednesday, April12 showing are still available Wednes­
day through Friday from 3-5 p.m. in the senior class office, 
second floor LaFortune. -The Observer 
A French Mass will be offered this Sunday, April 2, at 4:30p.m. in Alumni Hall. It is sponsored by LeCercle Francais and will be said by Fr. Andre Leveille. -The Observer 
The Italian Club will dine at Bruno's next Thursday, April 6, at 6:30 p.m. as part of Italian Cultural Week. Those interested should reserve a seat by calling Vienna at 283-1833 before Friday. -The Observer 


Design Editor ................ Karen Newlove Design Assistant ............... Allison Cocks Typesetters...... Bernard Brenninkmeyer .......................................... Andy Schlidt News Editor....................... Sara Marley Copy Editor .......... ........ Janice O'Leary Sports Copy Editor ......... Molly Mahoney Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Kim Skiles 
Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Accent Designer ................ Paul lndeglia Typist .................................. Will Zamer ........................................ Diane Bradley ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey SMC Day Editor .......... Roz.el Gatmaitan 
n. 011 II •• (USPS 599 Z..eoiJO) is pablisbal Monday throqb Friday acept duriaa exam aDd VK&Uon periods. ne Oliun• is published by the shldmts of the UniYenity of Notre Dule and Saint Mary's CoUqc. Subscriptions may be purcbu­ed for S40 per year ll2' per ICIDCitcr) bJ writina Tile 0'-••. P.O. Ben Q, Nocrc 
Dule, IDdiana 46556. 
n.011 •• is • member of ne A.ll .......... All reproduction ripu are rlllmld. 
Andy Warhol once said that everyone is fa­mous for at least 15 minutes of hisher life. In American popular culture, there are thousands of stars continually rising and falling with the passage of time. With only a few exceptions, most performers stay on top for a relatively short period of time. 
So what becomes of these stars after their 15 minutes are up? 
An interesting question--and last semester my roommate and I came up with some inter­esting answers. We developed a weekly display on our door entitled ''The Forgotten Star of the Week" which features those persons who were literally famous for 15 minutes or they simply overstayed their 15 minute welcome. Finally, those haunting questions concerning the whereabouts of old TV stars and disco kings could be answered, with the help of our de­mented imaginations. 
For those of you who are unfamiliar with our famous door, here is a sampling of what we came up with to answer the question, "Whatever became of..." 
ERIK ESTRADA: Erik suffered from am­nesia after a tragic roller-disco accident. He thought he was Julio Iglesias after the mirror­covered glitter ball fell and hit him on the head. 

SHAUN CASSIDY: Shaun is getting together with another singer of equal talent--or lack thereof--Tiffany. They are going on a world tour entitled "Remakes from Hell." 
THE BEE GEES: After the amazing success of their film "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" they continued with the Beatles motif for a documentary film, "Let it Bee ... Gee." The film recorded the behind the scenes process of picking out their wardrobe ("Which gold medallion?" "Which huge belt buckle?") for a performance on their baby brother's TV show "Solid Gold." When Andy Gibb died last year, the Bee Gees 
sang  some  of  their  best  loved  songs  with  
modified lyrics at the funeral.  
THE  PARTRIDGE  FAMILY:  Chris  and  

Tracy were kidnapped by a band of gypsies in 1975. No one realized that they were missing until 1980. Danny was shocked to learn that Reuben was his biological father ("I always wondered why I was the only kid with red hair"). GREG BRADY: Greg married Mar­cia and had six kids. In order to support his family, he turned to his very lucrative career 
Robyn Simmons 
Assistant Accent Editor 


as Johnny Bravo. He now plays in Las Vegas, weighs 300 lbs. and most people say he looks like the late Elvis Presley. 
GILLIGAN AND SKIPPER: They opened a clothing boutique that only sells red jerseys, blue shirts, white pants and sailor hats. 
WONDER WOMAN: She is currently George Bush's bodyguard, working for a "kinder, gentler, more sexy nation." 
DONNY OSMOND: All of his teeth fell out and he now has a full set of dentures. Look for him on the new Poly-Grip commercials. 
CAPTAIN AND TENNILLE: Captain spoke his first words and Tennille got a new hairdo-­a perm! 
TATTOO: Tattoo went the way of many for­gotten stars: he became a special guest star on game shows. He auditioned for the center square on "The Hollywood Squares" but was too short to be seen. 
Well, there you have it. I want to stress that these ideas were a purely collaborative effort; it's kind of a Lennon and McCartney thing. Per­haps 10 years from now, someone else will be featuring forgotten stars such as Vanna White, Tiffany, Debbie Gibson and Madonna. Only time will tell. 


.. 


H·Y· P·N·O·T·I·S·T 
Thursday, March 30 
Students provide the entertainment this week as they perform humorous antics under Jim Wand's hypnosis. Don't miss this show-


Thursday, March 30, 1989 
The Observer page 3 
Fed. MCorp bailout third largest ever 
Associated Press 
Washington--Federal regulators said Wednesday they had seized control of most of MCorp, an $18 billion, Dallas­based bank holding company, pumping in $300 million in what will likely become the third largest commercial bank res­cue ever. 
The Federal Deposit Insur­ance Corp. packaged 20 MCorp subsidiary banks into a new, government-owned institution with $15.4 billion in assets and $11.6 billion in deposits. Five still-solvent subsidiary banks and a trust company were left alone. 
L. William Seidman, chair­man of the FDIC, which insures commercial bank deposits up to $100,000, said the agency will seek buyers for the new insti­tution. 
He declined to estimate how much government aid will ul­timately be required, saying he did not want to reveal the fig­ure to potential bidders. 
Private analysts have said they expect the failure will cost the FDIC, already depleted by a post-Depression record of 221 bank failures last year, $1 bil­lion to $2 billion. 
That would make the trans­action the third most costly commercial bank rescue, after Continental Illinois of Chicago in 1984 and First Republic Bank of Dallas in 1988, which re­quired initial government pledges of $4.5 billion and $4 bil­lion, respectively. Both, like MCorp, were holding compan­ies. 
The FDIC insurance fund suffered its first loss ever in 
Join The Observer 

Are youdenying yourself a better shot at grad school? 
Okay, it may be too late to get a 4.0. But it's not too late to try to do better on your LSAT, GMAT, GRE, or MCAT. For that, there's Stanley H. Kaplan. 
No one has prepped more students than Stanley H. Kaplan.Our test-taking techniques and educational programs have prepared over 1 million students. 
So whatever grad school exam you're taking, call us. Remember, the person next to you during your exam might have taken a Kaplan course. 


!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL (H\lTER ITO. DON'T COMPETE Willi A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
219/272-=-4135 
1988, declining from $18.3 bil­
lion to $14 billion. Seidman said 
the fund should break even this 
year, even with spending for 
MCorp. 
As part of legislation to bail 
out the savings and loan indus­
try, President Bush is propos­
ing to build up the commercial 
bank insurance fund by nearly 
doubling the deposit insurance 
premium paid by banks. 
Earlier this year, when the 
FDIC was trying to sell MCorp 
in its entirety, the agency had 
set an April 3 deadline for of­
fers, but Seidman said that 
may be extended. 
"We are going to proceed with the sale as promptly as possible," he said. 
In Dallas, MCorp said the five remaining banks and the trust subsidiary "form the nu­cleus of a new beginning for MCorp," which intends to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. 
"While the nature of MCorp has been altered dramatically, a solid, healthy core remains,'' Chairman Gene H. Bishop said. 
Seidman said the failed banks opened for · business Wednesday and "as far as the customers are concerned it will be business as usual." 
MCorp, which has 86 offices, lost $903 million from its banking operations last year. It is the last of the large Texas banks needing to be recapi­talized, either through federal rescue or private merger. The bulk of the assets were in the subsidiaries in Dallas, $6.4 bil­lion, and Houston, $3.2 billion. 
Until last year, many analysts had thought MCorp, which had not invested as heav­ily in energy projects as other Texas banks, might survive. But heavy losses on real estate loans eventually dragged it un­der. 
Tennis Time 
Pablo Gonzales, Richard Reppert and student Dave Garlin put up wind breaking nets on the 
Judicial review procedure studied 
fence around the tennis courts. 
By LAURA DOWNS Staff Reporter 
The Judicial Review Board and continuance of campus SYRs were the two issues of discussion at the meeting of the Campus Life Council on Wed­nesday. 
The Council was composed of certain campus rectors, fac­ulty, and members of student government. Student Body President Tom Doyle chaired the committee and said the most time was dedicated to deliberating over the Judicial Review process. "Consensus was that the Review Board needs to be looked at again," Doyle said. 
The Judicial Review Board, whose power had been limited this year to approving appeals 
•
Moslem leader killed 1n 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS, Belgium--The leader of Moslems in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxem­bourg and his aide were shot and killed Wednesday, five weeks after the imam dis­tanced himself from Iran's death sentence for author Sal­man Rushdie. 
Imam Abdullah AI Ahdal, a 36-year-old Saudi Arabian and moderate Moslem, and Salem El Behir, a 40-year-old Tunisian who headed the Bru.s­sels mosque's social services 

Would you like to be in a Video for Notre Dame? 
We need a crowd on the steps of the .Administration Building at 3: 15· pril, Friday March 31. 
" 



BE THERE! 
and library, were shot at close range in the imam's office in the mosque, police said. 
No one immediately claimed responsibility, and no arrests were made. Police said there were no witnesses and that no one heard the gunshots. 
The two men each were shot twice, once in the head and once in the neck, police said. Unconfirmed reports said three hooded men were seen jumping from a van, entering the mosque and then coming out again. 
but not hearing the cases, went virtually unused, said Doyle. 
He said that the reason was probably due to the strict reg­ulations regarding grounds for appeals, and the fact that a case that was approved for ap­peal would end up right back in the hands of Student Affairs, where it had just come from. 
Doyle said that a committee had been appointed earlier to re-examine the judicial review 
process  at  Notre  Dame  and  
suggest  possible  improve­ 
ments.  Aristedes  Feles,  stu­ 

dent government judicial coordinator, worked with the committee and proposed possi­ble points for change at the Council meeting yesterday. 
Feles submitted five proposals for change in the Judicial Review Board yester­day, including an expansion of its powers and composition. Doyle said that no ultimate decision was made in regard to these proposals but a subcom­mittee of the CLC was ap­pointed to do further research on them. 
"It was frustrating because we looked like we would cover a lot of ground, but didn't," Doyle commented. "We felt stifled in regard to the Judicial Review Board issue." 
Doyle said that SYRs, which were undergoing a trial period this year, were approved for continuance by nearly all members of the Council and will continue in years to come. 
Brussels 
The bodies were found by members of the Islamic com­munity early Wednesday eve­ning. 
On Feb. 14, Iranian revolu­tionary patriarch Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini issued a death sentence for Rushdie for "The Satanic Verses," a novel many Moslems consider blas­phemous. 
In a Feb. 20 interview on RTBF, Belgium's French­language television network, Ahdal agreed that Rushdie's book was blasphemous. 

~ 
' 
' 
! 
page 4 The Observer 
j 

Democrats hail Long's victory in 1 traditionally Republican district 
I 
Associated Press
( 
t 
i 
WASHINGTON-­
~ 
Democrats rejoiced Wed­nesday over Jill Long's surprise victory in a nor­mally Republican congres­sional district in Indiana while both political parties turned their attention to elections next month in Ala­bama and Wyoming. 
I 
l 
Neither Democrats nor
\ 
l 
Republicans claimed any important national trend in
{ 
Tuesday's returns from In­diana, in which Long
} 
defeated Republican Dan Heath by about 1,700 votes 
J 
to capture the House seat once held by Vice President Dan Quayle. 
But Republican Party Chairman Lee Atwater said he was "ashamed" at the 

Lll 

ALUMNI 

::1: 


1­
Alumni-Senior CLUB 
BARTENDER 
Applications and Job descriptions are available in the Office of Student Activities, 3rd Floor LaFortune. 
( 
1 
I 
* Deadline is this Friday, March 31! 
Thursday, March 30, 1989 
Later, Long seemed to back 
away even from her cam­
paign's tax issue attacks, 
saying the city administra­
tion's chief failure was not 
seeking broader resident in­
volvement in the decision. "It's 
a style of management rather 
than the issue itself," she said. 
Long had lost by landslide margins both in 1986 and in her 1988 effort to oust GOP incum­bent Dan Coats. Some Democrats wrote off her poli­tical career after the second loss, but Long said she realized immediately that Coats, a former House aide to Quayle, might be appointed to fill his Senate seat. "We kept our cam­paign headquarters open and assembled a team of private advisers," she said. 
When Coats did resign in Jan­uary to take the Senate seat, Long was ready to go again. While Long had no opponents in the party nominating caucus, Heath, then relatively unknown even in the city, was running in a field of nine can­didates. 
AP Photo 


loss of the seat that had been. a safe one for the GOP, and conceded that the race looked "very tough" next week in a heavily Demo­cratic region of Alabama. Other Republicans insisted their candidate was an un­derdog in the Wyoming race, even though the seat has been in GOP hands for a de­cade. 
Democratic spokesman Mike McCurry said his side holds the upper hand going into the final week of the Al­abama campaign. He said if Atwater is ashamed of the outcome of the Indiana race, he'd be "apoplectic" if the Democrats followed up with wins in Alabama and Wyoming. 
In strict numerical terms, the outcome of the three races will make scant differ­ence in the House, where the Democratic majority will stand at 259-174 when Long is sworn. in next week. 
But that didn't stop the party professionals from scrutinizing the Indiana returns or vying for public relations advantage in the two elections to come. 
"It's hard to read this as a referendum on George Bush but on the other hand absent a strong national Re­publican agenda, these local candidates don't have much to stand on," McCurry said. 
"Obviously, we regret the loss," said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. He said that the race "reflected a lot of local issues. " 


grenade. 
•

: 
~ : : Happy Birthday : : Nancy Lauen (" NANBO") : : 22 years !! : 
: ................. u~~.nw~~:, 
. 

~~-*:~:=tt.~:='!<>.'>.=t:.-::::~:: 


ht2!1o~tge 1 
tirnes when onP must be 
sacrificed on the altar of good 
government, whether it be 
(tax) or annexation," he said. 
Long said her victory was not 
a rebuff for the White House or 
Quayle, who campaigned for 
Heath. "This was just a race 
between two individuals in 
northeast Indiana," she said. 
Quayle called Long with a message of congratulations. "He wished me well and con­gratulated me and offered to assist in any way because he's committed to the Fourth Dis­trict." she said. 
Long told Quayle she had gained valuable campaign ex­perience in her losing 1986 ef­fort to deny him a second Sen­ate term. "I believe we will be able to work together well be­cause I believe you have the Fourth District in your heart, just as I do," she told the vice president. 
agency, said the flight crew convinced the young hijackers the plane could not cross the ocean and they then demanded to be taken to Barcelona, Spain. 
After entering West German airspace, however, the youths told the pilot to land at Frankfurt because they wanted to deal with the Americans at nearby military facilities, said Hans-Ulrich Ohl, head of the federal flight safety office in Frankfurt. 
U.S. military authorities refused to allow the Hungarian jet onto Rhein-Main Air Base. Roland Desch, a police inves­
tigator, said a military truck was driven onto the taxiway to prevent them from entering the base. 
Karl-Heinz Wagner, another police spokesman, said the Head Shot 
teen-agers carried a sawed-off Van Hoa Pham of Australia accidently shot himself alive after having the 5 foot spear removed from shotgun, a rifle and a fake hand in the head while cleaning a speargun, but he is his skull. 
DORM DIALOGUE 
WEDNESDAY SERIES 
APRIL 5 -7:00p.m. 

CONCERN FOR ANOTHER'S DRINKING AVOIDING THE CARETAKER ROLE 
ARE YOU CONCERNED ABOUT SOMEONE'S DRINKING? LEARN TO DEAL WITH YOUR CONCERN. 
LOCATION: FLANNER 
HOST HALLS: FLANNERAND PASQUERILLA EAST PRESENTERS: MOLLY SULLIVIAN and STEVE NEWTON 
APRIL 12 -7:00 p.m . 

MEN, WOMEN AND ALCOHOL 
AN OVERVIEW OF MEN'S AND WOMEN's DRINKING PATIERNS. LEARN THE EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL ON THEIR BODIES AND OTHER HEALTH ISSUES 
LOCATION: LYONS 
HOST HALLS: L VONS AND SORIN PRESENTERS: MOLL V SULLIVIAN and STEVE NEWTON 
APRIL 19 -7:00p.m. 

RELATIONSHIPS 
LEARN HOW ALCOHOL EFFECTS PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS 
LOCATION: FARLEY 
HOST HALLS: FARLEY AND KEENAN PRESENTOR: MOLLY SULLIVIAN 
---~11
(s·\~FI=ICE ALCOI-ldl'""'
'\)) ANO ORUG OFEDUCATIO~lf../1 
Thursday, March 30, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Charity Ball nears fund-raising goal 
By MISSY WEBER 
News Staff 
The fundraising goal of $7,000 for the Notre Darnel Saint Mary's Charity Ball has nearly been reached, according to Shannon McAuliffe, ball com­mittee chairman. 
All proceeds will go toward Catholic Relief Services and the Food Bank of Michiana. 
"We have received a lot of community and corporation support, and the majority of our success is due to their cooperation," said McAuliffe. 
The ball, the fourth such event to be held here, will take place on Friday, March 31 in the South Dining Hall. No charity ball was held last year. 
The Junior and Sophomore classes are sponsoring the ball with cultural clubs on campus contributing expositional dis­plays. 
The ball's theme "We are one World" has been carried over from past years. 
"The Notre Darnel Saint Mary's Charity Ball began as a small flickering idea shared by a number of students in 1985. After pondering the various roles they could assume in the world hunger crisis, they opted for a joint campus family response and devise the con­cept of a charity ball," said McAuliffe. 
The inaugral event raised several thousand dollars for Catholic Relief Services to aid in alleviating hunger interna­tionally. This year, that tradi­tion continues and extends to the local community by donat­ing 50 percent of the proceeds to the Food Bank of Michiana, said McAuliffe. 
McAuliffe said she had two goals in organizing the event. "The first was to raise money for these worthwhile organiza­tions, and the second was to in­sure that Notre Darnel Saint Mary's students enjoy them­selves at a charitable event so that ten years from now when they are approached for similar events, they will not as­sociate a negative connotation to the word charity and they wtll help others as much as I have been helped in my ef­forts." 
TRACKS HAS CRACKED with the 



BEST SELECTION & LOWEST PRICES! 

~-----------------------­
TRACKS 
Mon-11'1 ~err l"'Mn.-9pm. 1631 Edison Road .Sun 11 am_.-7pm. · 
SECURITY BEAT 
MON., MARCH 20 
5:10p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported the theft of her hang-tag parking decal from her car which was parked parked in B-2 lot some­time before 4:45 p.m.. 
9 p.m. A Zahm resident reported the theft of his bookbag and its con­tents from the bookrack at North Dining Hall sometime between 
11:10 and 11:30 a.m..  Losses esti­ 
mated at $120.  
TUE.,  MARCH  21  

6:21 p.m. A resident of Ca­vanaugh Hall reported the theft of three sweatshirts from his un­locked dorm room sometime be­tween 8 and 9 p.m. on 3/19. Losses estimated at $75. 
WED., MARCH 22 
6:35 a.m. A Notre Dame employee reported vandalism to an office window in which unknown per­son(s) broke a double pane of glass. Damages estimated at $50. 
12:50 p.m. A graduate student reported that some unknown person (s) had slashed the left front tire of his motor vehicle while parked in C 2 lot sometime between 
8:30 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. on 3/21. Damages estimated at $40. 
1:42 p.m. Several students reported the theft of their bookbags and con­tents from the lobby of South Din­ing Hall sometime between noon and 12:30. Total losses estimated at $350. 
3:55 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of his backpack from the lobby of the bookstore sometime around 12:15. Losses es­timated at $59. 


THU., MARCH 23 
2:30 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident reported that unknown person(s) had broken out the passenger side window of his vehicle while parked in C -1 lot sometime within the week. Damages estimated at 
FRI., MARCH 24 
12:10 p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported that sometime between noon and 5 p.m. on 3/20 an un­known suspect vehicle collided into her vehicle in the C-2 lot. Damage estimates are unknown . 
4:20 p.m. Notre Dame Security reported the violation of Univer­sity rules and regulations in which a Notre Dame student was found carrying a case of beer in the basement of the Architecture building. Beer was confiscated. 
1 p.m. A resident of Alumni Hall reported the theft of his the license plate from his car while parked in the Green Field lot sometime be­tween 4:30 p.m., 3/23 and 10 a.m., 3/24. 
2:30 p.m. An employee of Pan­dora's books reported that two non­university students had sold sev­eral textbooks which were believed to be stolen. Notre Dame Security then recovered ten textbooks related to several larcenies on the Notre Dame campus. 
SAT., MARCH 25 
2 a.m. Notre Dame Security re­ported damage done to a slide bolt of one of the outer doors in the South Dining Hall sometime around 9:45 p.m.. Damage estimates are un­known. 
Sophomores and FreshJ1ten 

PHILOSOPHY: Meet Your .Majors 
Sunday, APRIL 2nd 
8:00-9:00 pm Room 104 
O'SHAG Refreshments Served 

For further information contact:· Prof. Tom Morris Room 337 O'SHAG, 7534 
liVE AN INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE 
Saint Louis University 
-1\1\ADRID­

AMERICAN EDUCATION WITH A PLUS 
UNDERGRADUATE COURSES: 
• 
Business Admi!list~atjon: Economics, ...Accounting, Statistics, Finance. 

• 
Computer Science. 

• 
Communications: P,dvertising. Journalism, ... Radio. 

• 
Hispanic Studies. 

• 
French, English, Spanish grammar. 

• 
Engineering. 

• 
TESOL: Tea~hing Eng. as a second language. 

• 
And thirty other choices. 



JOIN OUR SUMMER PROGRAM: JUNE 19 -JULY 28 
ENJOY: Our highly qualified instruction. Individual attention. Housing with Spanish families and dorms. Group trips around Spain. 

INFORMATION: Cl De Ia Vina, 3 -28003 MADRID Tel: 233-2032 or 233-2812 
9:20 p.m. A resident of Dillon Hail reported the theft of the license plate from his vehicle while parked in the D-1 lot sometime before 6 p.m. 
on  3/25.  Estimated  loss  is  un­ 
known.  
TUE.,  MARCH  28  

1 a.m. A Notre Dame student was issued a citation by Note Dame Se­curity for traveling 41 m.p.h. in a posted 25 m.p.h. on juniper road. 
6:18a.m. A Notre Dame employee reported that some unknown per· son(s) had entered her office in Cushing hall sometime around 3:10am. Other than some electrical equipment being unplugged, ev­erything in the office appeared to be in order. 
CRIME OF THE WEEK 
The Crime of the Week is the theft of four book bags taken from the South Dining Hail lobby on Wednesday, March 22, during the lunch hour. Security believes that two sus­pects, described as female, black approximately late 20's took the book bags from the Dining Hall. Some of the books were re­covered later that day from a local book retailer. If you have any information about these thefts or saw anyone hanging around the South Dining Hail Lobby on 3/22/89 call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. You won't be asked to give your name and you'll be eligible for a cash reward of $300. 
Doctors OK helping the terminally ill to end lives 
Associated Press 
BOSTON--Doctors can ethi­

cally  help  terminally  ill  
patients  commit  suicide  by  
prescribing sleeping pills  or  

other drugs and telling them what dose will end their lives, a panel of prominent doctors concludes. 
Doctors assisting patients in suicides ''is certainly not rare," although they don't of­ten talk about it, the group said. 
It added, however, that if doctors ease the way for death by carefully attending to the comfort and dignity of their hopelessly ill patients, requests for suicide should be rare. 
The suicide guidelines were part of a report outlining doc­tors' responsibilities toward their dying patients. Among other things, the paper urged doctors to give such patients as much pain medicine as they need to relieve their suffering, even if it hastens their deaths. 
"We really think that the physician has a responsibility to be actively involved in creat­ing an environment in which a peaceful death can occur. That does not just happen,'' said Dr. Sidney H. Wanzer, principal author of the report. 

The report, published in Thursday's New England Jour­nal of Medicine, is the second from a 12-member committee chaired by Dr. Daniel D. Federman of Harvard Medical School, former president of the American College of Physicians. The committee was convened by the Society for the Right to Die, a New York-based group. 
Its first report, issued five years ago, also dealt with the ethics of obeying patients' final wishes. 

~ ~ -------~-......----------~ -~--------~------~. -~---~--__.,.___.____...,.___~-.---------------------­


Thursday, March 30, 1989 
page 6 
The Observer 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN 
BECOMING INVOLVED IN 



H !1 
Student Government? 
l;
,. 
l \ 
WELL, STUDENT GOVERNMENT WANTS YOU!!
! 
r 
~ 
lit CABINET POSITIONS AVAILABLE: ij 
'i
ir 
p
., 
Executive Assistant Executive Coordinator -lntell. Life 
{ 
1 I 
f 
Chief of Staff
f 
\ Social Concerns 
I 
H I Cultural Concerns
H Student Government Secretary Academics
j} fl Intellectual Life 
;;: 
f{ Board of Trustees Coordinator Political Concerns 
" 
" 
;; 
Executive Coordinator -Student Life 

Executive Coordinator -National Women's Concerns Catholic Organization
Hall Presidents' Council Liaison Campus I nprovementS'Security Religious Concerns Minority Concerns Student Services 
Executiye Coordinator -Legal Department

Athletics 
Alcohol, Food, and Health Research Department University Documents 
Executive Coordinator -Public Relations 
Executive Coordinator -Special Projects 
Alumni Relations 
Special Projects Commissioners
ND!SMC Relations 
Director of Public Relations and Publicity Off-Campus Foreign Relations Student Government Photographer 
Applications Available at Student Government 
Secretary's Desk 
2nd Floor LaFortune 
Applications Due 


\ ( 
'./ ... 

-... ,. ., . ~ <: ... , • ,., { 
. -' 
page 7
Thursday, March 30, 1989 The Observer 
Judge orders South Bend landfill to close 
Associated Press against the landfill in 1987, 
claiming it was operating in 
SOUTH BEND--A federal violation of the federal judge ordered an Indianapolis Resource Conservation and company to close its northern Recovery Act of 1976. Indiana hazardous waste A group of residents, calling landfill Wednesday and pay themselves Supporters to Op­nearly $2.8 million in civil pose Pollution, or STOP, joined penalties. the suit later that year. 
U.S. District Court Judge Robert L. Miller Jr. ruled that Several STOP members Four County Landfill in Fulton maintained a prayer vigil out­County had been operating il­side the landfill Wednesday legally since 1985, and ordered morning, awaiting the judge's an immediate halt to the ruling. storage and disposal of hazar­"I hope I've seen the last dous wastes at the 61-acre toxic trucks driving past my facility. front window," said Dixie Sef­
The U.S. Environmental chek, who lives near the landfill Protection Agency filed suit and is president of STOP. 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 1990 CHAIRPERSON 
now available in Office of St. Activities. Must be submitted by 5 pm. Friday, April 7th. 
~*****~*************;~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
£ ~ ty [ . giltS 
~ STUDENT NIGHT 
~ . Every Thursday ~ Current Dance Music ~ OJ plays your requestsl 
~ Must be 21 to enter-ID's required ~ 123 N. Michigan Street ~ Downtown South Bend 
it* * 
~ ~ 
~*******************~ 

A Pyramid In Paris?  
This  glass  pyramid  with  666 diamond-shape  museum  in  Paris.  The  pyramid  was  built  by  
glasses  will  cap  the  entrance  of  the  Louvre  Chinese-American architect, I.M. Pei.  



£ ~ OOUYf~~ r ~~UR 
~ ~ 
iC iC 
~ 
~ 
iC 
~ 
~ ~ 
Selected Portraits from The Wisconsin Center for Film and Theater Research University of Wisconsin 
The Snite Museum of Art  Opening Reception  
University of Notre Dame  Saturday, April 1  
April 1 -May 21, 1989  from 6-9:30 pm  
9't'­ 
~  ~9  MOVIES OPENING NIGHT:  

,o. ~~ "Easter Parade; 1948, 7:00pm ~~9~ "Tarzan. Tt:e Ape Man." 19-32, 9:00 pm 
~~0~­

!"'~ BRING THIS COUPON TO THE RECEPTION: 
i--~ become a member of The Snite and ~G see the movies opening night for free! 
This exhibit Is sponsored by The Kathy and Richard Champlin Endowment. Movies ord lectures ore mode possible by The Allee Tully Endowment fOf the Arts. 
'''''''''''''''''''' 

Oscar 
continued from page 1 
Academy Awards. 

"Cruelty might be human and it might be cultural, but it's not acceptable, and that's what this movie is about," said Foster, a former child star who won her first Oscar. 
"I'm supposed to be jaded by this time, but I'm not," said Hoffman, who also won the award for "Kramer vs. Kramer" in 1979. He embraced loser Gene Hackman while on his way to the stage, where he received a standing ovation. 
No single picture dominated the first half of the show, with "Rain Man," the odds-on fa­vorite for best picture, coming up short in four categories. It lost the Oscar for film editing to "Who Framed Roger Rab­bit,'' while ''The Milagro Bean­field War" won for best score, 
"Dangerous Liaisons" won for art direction and "Mississippi Burning" for cinematography. 
"Liaisons," an ornate drama of drawing room seductions in pre-Revolutionary France, 
also  won  for its opulent  cos­ 
tumes.  
"Bird"  won  the  Oscar for  

best sound, "Who Framed Roger Rabbit" for sound ef­fects editing and "Beetlejuice" for makeup. 
Named best song of the year was Carly Simon's "Let the River Run" from "Working Girl." The academy could find only three songs to nominate this year, instead of the usual five, and didn't see fit to have them performed during the show. 
The year's best foreign lan­guage film was Denmark's "Pelle the Conqueror" about an exploited farmworker and his son. 
With Wednesday's ceremonies, the Academy dropped the traditional line "The winner is ..."in favor of ''And the Oscar goes to . . .'' The intent was to soften the sense of competition. 
*YEAR OF CULTURAL DIVERSITY LECTURE* 
Alfredo Campo, Asst. Deputy for Logistics Department of Defense Topic: GOVERNMENT/INDUSTRY BUSINESS PRACTICES, BUDGETS AND CONTROLS Time: Thursday, May 30th, 4:30pm Place: Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
Sponsored by the College of Business Administration. 
~ ~·~--.,....-..-~---~---------·~ 

e a~te 


,
Vt:UHe/SaUtt ~ e ~aa 
The Charity Ball Committee would like to thank the corporate sponsors who contributed to the 
success of this event: 
A M General Corporation Allied Screw Ameritech Corporation Automatic Molded Plastics, Inc. Carpenters Union Local 413 Center Management Chi-Chi" s Mexican Restaurant 
.· 
I Clark Equipment 
~· ~ 
~~j 
Coldwell Banker-Anchor Real Estate 'f Cole Associates, Inc. 
Corrugated Paper I Cressy and Everett Inc. Realtors I Data Link Systen1s 
Data Processing Managen1ent Garden City Fan Co. Gates Chevrolet Corporation Heritage Cablevision Hook Drug Foundation Hull Lift Truck IBM Jessen Manufacturing Jordan Ford, Toyota, Volvo, Lincoln Mercury Kroger Kuert Concrete Kuntz Wagner Etu 

Louie's Tux Shop Mishawaka Steel Fabricatinf.! 
... 

Notre Dan1e Credit Union Pawating Hospital Pete Fall Ford, Inc. Peterson Printing Corporation Price Waterhouse Ratnenda Masonry C'o. Real Estate Manage111 en t C <) rp<)rat i<) n Reith Riley Saint Joseph ~Iospital Saint Joseph's Medical Center Signature Group South Bend Marriott South Bend Medical Sturgis Iron and \1etal co111 '-pany, Inc. Superior Waste Systcrns 'reachers Credit L: nion 'rowne Air Freight 
L 

l'ravelrnore VerkleL llarry II. C_,ontractors Wells Alurninun1 WN l)L_..rv/Radil) WSB'T, Inc. 
Friday, March 31st
Students: $10/couple South Dining Hall 
$6/single 8:30 p.m.. -1:30 a.lll. 
Non-students: $20/couple $'12/singl.e 
Entertainment by The c;roove and In Cinq Multicultural bo<Jths with international foods Proceeds to benefit Catholic l~elief Services and thL\ Food Bank of Michiana 
Viewpoint
Thursday, March 30, 1989 page 9 
P.O. Box Q 
Ordinance limits student living 
Editor's note: The following is a letter from James Roemer, director of Com­munity Relations, to Student Body 
President Tom Doyle. 
Dear Tom: 
Thanks for sending me a copy of your 
letter to Father Malloy. You have 
raised several issues which are impor­
tant to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
students. These are also important is­
sues for the good people wh~ live full 
time in this historic northeast neighbor­
hood. This is their home away from 
home. They are often victims of crime 
and the police have not been able to 
keep their homes secure. This is regret­
table. 
This neighborhood is also home to 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty 
personnel, both active and retired. Just 
as important, many of the people who 
staff our University have lived there 
all their lives, whether they be maids, 
maintenance workers, plumbers, 
carpenters, dining hall employees, or 
other important and loyal people who 
devote their careers to working with 
students and with this University. 
How do I know these people? I was 
born in this neighborhood. I learned 
how to play all sports with the whites 
and blacks who live near us around 
Ruetz field and the "big" field where 
houses on East Peashway have now 
taken that space. I went to high school 
(Holy Cross Seminary) here at Notre 
Dame and I attended undergraduate 
school and law school at Notre Dame. 
I practiced law in South Bend and was 
City Attorney for this city in the mor­
ning and was General Counsel for Notre 
Dame in the afternoon. In this manner, 
I have had one foot on campus and the 
other foot in the northeast neighbor­
hood for my entire life. So I know both 
communities and their peoples as well as anyone else. 
These neighbors have a right to set limits on the student population that live next to them. For many, their homes are their only financial invest­ment. They don't mind 800 students. They want a mixed neighborhood of old and young, black and white, students and retired people, widows and kids. They don't want all elderly or all white or all black or all students ! This is 
healthy and the mixture makes for an 
attractive neighborhood that is appeal­
ing to everyone, not just to one segment 
of the population. 

They have a right to set reasonable 
limits and, frankly, I think the or­
dinance which was passed by the South 
Bend Common Council and was signed 
by the Mayor was such a reasonable 
limitation. 

This ordinance changed a small por­
tion of their neighborhood to "A" resi­
dential. Only two students can live in a 
home in an "A" residential neighbor­
hood. That's not unreasonable when 
you consider that they have "grandfat­
hered'' all the current residences where 
students live in excess of two per house. 
So all student group homes in that en­
tire neighborhood can remain as group 
homes indefinitely, unless the owner 
refrains from renting to a group of stu­
dents for more than one year. I doubt 
that many landlords will give up such 
lucrative locations, and so I think that 
we may lose only a handful of nearby 
student homes over the next five or ten 
years. 

The University has built four new 
residence halls in the past few years. 
If more off-campus housing becomes 
necessary in future years, the Univer­
sity may consider additional graduate 
and undergraduate residence halls. 
Tom, the neighbors and their associa­tions acted in a very responsible fas­hion by asking for an informal written refer_endum before the matter went into a series of public hearings. All of this was well-covered by the media at various stages. When they contacted me for a University opinion, I wrote Father Tyson, the vice president of Stu­dent Affairs, with' my recommendation in favor of the neighborhood stabiliza­tion at the present group home level. Basically I believe that the neighbor­hood had the right to say that they wanted to stay at the present level of the student population and that addi­tional group homes of students should not go into that particular area. (There is no limit to the amount of homes that can rent to two students per house.) 
Father Tyson wrote back and agreed with that position. So Sister Jean Lenz, the assistant vice president for Student Affairs, and I represented that position in subsequent neighborhood meetings. <She was on the Neighborhood Housing Services Board as Pat Doran, the as­sistant director of Residence Life, is 
now.) Students were invited to attend 
those N .H.S. and Northeast Neighbor­
hood Association meetings and the few 
who were interested did attend. 
I believe that social justice and fair­
ness prevailed. These northeast neigh­
bors, who also are Notre Darners in the 
true sense of the word, are proud of the 
fact that more than 800 of our students 
live among them and tutor their kids, 
shovel their walks, visit their sick, and 
will paint their homes on AprilS. Tom, 
this is a great South Bend neighborhood 
and Notre Dame is a proud part of their 
history and tradition--past, present, 
and future. 

James A. Roemer Director, Community Relations March 22, 1989 
Closing of labs hindered all 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing to address the fact that the three computer facilities on campus were closed for three consecutive days. I recognize that the closings were honoring a religious holiday, but I feel that this could have been implemented to a lesser degree. Perhaps those who decide whether the computer labs stay opened or closed could have left one lab open during the Easter weekend. An­other option would have been to leave the labs open Friday and Saturday, or just Saturday. 
These closings have hindered those who do not own computers and those who do not have access to computers. In the future, I urge those who open and close the labs to consider options other than a three day closing of all labs on campus. 
Mary Susan Twohy Lyons Hall March 25, 1989 
Students closed out of labs 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing to express my concern about the scheduling of computer labs over the Easter break. This is the second year that all computing facilities were closed for the greater portion of that weekend. 
In a university that is committed to excellence in research and that has recently invested a great sum in its computing facilities, it is unacceptable that the computer labs be unavailable for a period where so many of its stu­dents remain on campus, hoping to work. Many students, both graduate 1 and undergraduate, found this to be a ! 
I
disturbing and insensitive action that 
hindered their study plans. 
1
If the pool room in LaFortune Student 
I 
Center can remain open during the I break, this is surely true of the com­puting lab. Otherwise, where are our l priorities? 
Victor J. Krebs 
GS U President 
March 28, 1989 
Nazz entertains music lovers 
Dear Editor: 
The Observer usually does a fine job, overall, of reporting campus-wide events, but an unfortunate oversight has recently occurred in your decision not to cover "The Nazz," Notre Dame's annual talent show. I'd like to rectify that. 
"The Nazz," traditionally, is a chance for campus bands to play for the students, in the format of a "battle­of-the-bands" competition. Every year, anywhere from 10 to 20 bands perform at Stepan Center, playing at their best, just to be heard and recognized by the community. And every year it's free: four hours of free rock-n-roll jazz, pop, and blues. Also, every year at least 200 to 300 or more people attend this musi­cal fest. 
This year's Nazz took place on March 18, involving close to 20 bands. It was a glorious four hours of music, starting at eight (not nine, as was listed in the Observer), and boasting such solid acts as The Groove, Catholics in Bad Stand­ing, After Hours, Dead Horse, and many more. It is also a rare opportunity to hear original material, and some good honest "jamming." 
It is my sincere hope that next year's N azz will be covered. There are many readers, I'm sure, who have never even heard of it before this letter. Without any reporting, everyone loses out on the fun--the bands, the audience mem­bers, and the community of music lovers who are unaware of this great opportunity. Look for it next year. It's a lot of fun! 
Leonard DiGiovanna Bluesman, Boathouse Blues Flanner Hall March 23, 191l0 
Doonesbury 

IJ&AR FRJ&/1105, I 
tEARN&f? JUST TH/5MORN­ING THAT YeT ANOTHeR OW N&IGH80R OF MIN& HAS B££N 
a.AIMtf? 8Y TH& PiA6Ue THAT HAS 51AJ&PT7HROU6H THIS COMMUNITY... 
\ 
7Hc PR08LEM5 FAONG U5 AR/3 MA551V&'. HeA/..Tfl CAR& COSTS, THe tACK oF INSURANce, PIS­CRIMINATION. I'[J UKE TOFOalS CW ALL OF 711t7e 7DN/6HT IN A NO-HOUJ5·!3ARRW [)IAWW& ON... ON... 
~ ,___.,..,.,.........---.J 

... ON THe GReAT UNPtEASANTN&93. 
\ 

Garry Trudeau 
Her, 
C'tl10N, Pt:OM, SH&'5 
81. 
I 

Quote of the Day 
'Anger blows out the lamp of the mind.' 
-Robert Green lngersol 
1989-90 General Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-530.'3  Editor-in-Chief .................................... Chris Donnelly Managing Editor ................ ................. Regis Coccia  Business Manager ............... .............. Rich Iannelli Controller .............................................. Anne Lindner  
Exec. News Editor .................... Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Manager .............................. Molly Killen  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of  Viewpoint Editor .................................... Dave Bruner  Advertising Design Manager ......... Shannon Roach  
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of  Sports Editor ....................................... Theresa Kelly  Production Manager ............................ Alison Cocks  
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as  Accent Editor ....................... ; ................... John Blasi  Systems Manager .............................. Mark Derwent  
possible Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief,  Photo Editor ............................................. Eric Bailey  OTS Director ................................... Angela Bellanca  
Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo  
Editor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column  
space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions  Founded November 3, 1988  
on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  


;\ 
~' 
I il 
~ 'Il 

i. 
I· 
j 
l 
I 
CAVANAUGH HALL PRESENTS: 'DON'T DRINK THE WATER' 
KERRY COSTELLO accent writer 
C
avanaugh Hall's produc­tion of "Don't Drink the Water" opens tonight in the library auditorium. 
The play, based on Woody Allen's "Don't Drink the Water,'' takes place in an eastern European embassy. The ambassador departs on a trip and leaves his son in charge of the embassy. Mean­while, an American couple and their daughter are chased to the embassy, where the ambassador's son continually makes their situation worse. 
According to Steve Danek who is in charge of public re­lations for the play, there will be no admission charge, but donations will be accepted in the name of Andy Sowder, Cavanaugh Hall's president in 1979, who died of spinal menangitis before he 
Accent
page 10 
Thursday, March 30, 1989 


The ObserveliMatt Mlttlno Martin Schubert and Roseanne DeBenedetto portray Walter and Mariam Hollander in Cavanaugh Hall's production of Woody Allen's "Don't Drink the Water" which opens tonight at the library auditorium. 
XTC' s bittersweet new album 'Oranges and Lemons' 

graduated. 
When Sowder died in 1979, Cavanaugh established a scholarship fund in his name. The past seven plays have been performed in order to raise money for the scholar­ship, which is awarded to a Cavanaugh resident, usually from Texas where Sowder's family lives. 
Directing "Don't Drink the Water" is Maggie McDonald ·who performed in last year's Cavanaugh production of "The Best Man." 
The role of Axel McGee, the ambassador's son, will be played by freshman Nate Fitzgerald. Senior Martin Schubert is cast as the Amer­ican father, Walter Hollander, with Roseanne DeBenedetto playing his wife, Marian, and sophomore Kerrie Anna Shan­non as their daughter Susan. 
"Don't Drink the Water" will run through April 1. 

Calvin and Hobbes 
HOW 010 '{OIJ 
t-t>UtH '<OIJR 
INSECIS, SUSIE"? 
JOHN LANE 
accent writer 

X 
TC has recently released a new album, entitled Oranges & Lemons. Although it is a good, solid effort by the veteran English pop stars, Oranges & Lemons is some­what disappointing because it is not quite as good as past albums. 
XTC is a rather unusual and very eclectic group that writes about a variety of sub­jects and applies them to many different sounds. The result is usually successful, as in the case of Oranges & Lemons. 
In this album, the members write about such topics as coups by the military, in­security and apathy, and cynicism. However, the main theme of this album is love, not just between a man and a woman, but also between a family and between enemies. XTC seems to hold the view that unconditional love is the solution to the world's prob­lems. 
The real accomplishment of this album is the band's mixing of the lyrics with the music. It uses all sorts of 
Bill Watterson 

HMM ... I ~T Ht>..'l£ /1... @:)X OR Plt-lS. I G\lt:SS Ill.  COPS. Tf..P£ DcESNl ~ 100 Wt.lL. G~§ r.  -rnt: ~'{ '(OO'R£ ~~G. tM~~  
JUST S\ICK t't\'{ S\JGS ~ t()TE.SX>K PAPE.R.  \-lOPE I ON GEl ~It--\ PACK TOGE:rnER .  '101J'O PR£t& "' SI}..PI..£R .  
\  
~~~~  
"r  -­ '  ~  ~\;~  
_--...... .,_..,.,.-....---­l  - 

'Never been near a university. Never took a paper or learned a degree. And some of your friends think that's stupid of me. But it's nothing that I care about.' 
'The Mayor of Simpleton' 
-XTC 
sounds and instruments in a variety of ways which are reminiscent of its English Settlement days. 
Oranges & Lemons contains 15 songs, spanning nearly 60 minutes. "The Mayor of Simpleton," "One of the Mil­lions," "Hold Me My Daddy," and "Merely a Man" are ter­rific, typical XTC pop songs. "King For a Day," "The 
WVFI Top Ten 
Loving," and "Miniature Sun" are also good songs, and are slower, a bit more relax­ing, tunes. 
There are also quite a few bizarre songs. ''Across This Antheap" and "The Garden of Earthly Delights" are hard-rock songs that involve several instruments. "Here Comes Presidertt Kill Again," "Cynical Days:" and "Chalkhills and Children" are mellow, somewhat depressing songs. Finally, "Poor Skeleton Steps Out," "Scarecrow People," and "Pink Thing" are a bit mys­terious. 
Oranges & Lemons fails in a couple of areas. First of all, in terms of pure listening en­joyment, it does not match some of XTC's past albums, such as Skylarking and Black Sea. Oranges & Lemons does not flow as well as these al­bums. Secondly, the overuse of background vocals and repeated lyrics is annoying. Many of the ·songs would have been better if background vo­cals had been reduced or even left out altogether. 
Nevertheless, Oranges & Lemons is a fine, interesting album and a solid effort by XTC. 

1
. Robyn Hitchcock and the Egyptians, "Queen Elvis" 

2. 
Pogues, "Yeah, Yeah, Yeah, Yeah, Yeah" 

3. 
Wonder Stuff, "Eight Legged Groove Machine" 

4. 
House of Freaks, "Sun Gone Down" 

5. 
XTC, "Oranges and Lemons" 

6. 
Elvis Costello, "Spike" 

7. 
Joy Division, "Closer" 

8. 
Firehouse, "From Ohio" 

9. 
Indigo Girls, "Indigo Girls" 

1
0. Squires, "Form True House" 



,. 
Thursday, March 30, 1989 The Observer page 11 
St. John's takes record fifth NIT championship 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --Jayson Wil­liams made 11 of his first 12 shots and had 28 points and a career-high 18 rebounds Wed­nesday night, leading St. John's to a record fifth National Invi­tation Tournament title, 73-65 over St. Louis. 
Williams, named most valu­able player of the tournament, was scoreless in the first 10 minutes, but after that he con­tinually got free inside against the smaller Billikens, who won their only NIT title in 1948. 
St. John's, 20-13, which shared the record of four NIT titles with Bradley, was making its 25th tournament ap­pearance after a disappointing season in which the Redmen finished eighth in the nine-team Big East Conference. 
St. Louis, 27-10, got 21 points from Roland Gray but had foul problems at both ends of the court. The Billikens missed 12 of their first 17 free throws, and Monroe Douglass, who scored 25 points in a semifinal victory over Michigan State, missed most of the game with foul trou-
Classifieds 
ble and finished with two gin to 56-45. The Billikens got only one point in the next 5: 41 points. no closer than five the rest of as St. John's took a 32-25 lead. 
Jason Buchanan, one of three the way, the last time at 70-65 A 3-pointer by Gray got the freshmen in the St. John's start­with 33 seconds to go after a Billikens within four with 52 ing lineup, scored a career­3-point goal and free throw by seconds to go, but Williams, high 21 points. Jeff Luechtefeld. who scored all 12 of his first­
With St. John's leading 44-39 Two 3-point goals by Luech­half points in the final 9:23, got 
with 13: 18left, Williams scored tefeld gave St. Louis a 23-19 inside with a second remain­seven of the next 12 points as edge with 6:34 left in the first ing, giving the Redmen a 34-28 the Redmen extended the mar-half, but the Billikens scored advantage at halftime. 
................................................................ 
11 
Happy Birthday Today is Laura S. 's birthday. Call her up and w1sh her a happy one By the way Laura,we do expect to see you dancmg 
on pool tables tonight. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the· Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
LOST: AEROBIE between SMC 'brare ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure 
FREDDY JONES FREDDY JONES STONE PUPPIES LIVE LIVE LIVE!!!! ATTENTION SUMMER CAMPERS!!!!
and dining hall on Easter couple of Irish and Swed1sh ancestry
NOTICES 
FREDDY JONES FREDDY JONES SENOR KELLY'S SAT. NIGHT 10:00 How sad for us that summer camp is
I I 
Monday. If found, PLEASE call WISh to love, cherish. and raise your new­FREDDY JONES come by after the NCAA's over!! But. how happy for us that we have Patty at 284-4198 or leave at born child. Legal and confidential. Please so many North quad memorabilia toRegina Hall desk. Reward off call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-8n-AT HELP RAISE MONEY FOR MULTIPLE remind us of the happy times--Some of TYPING AVAILABLE eredtlltlll 3574 BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S THURS. 10:00 SCLEROSIS! us, (I won't mention who--also have
287-4082 FOR MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS 
·············· ······················ 
tropic tans too)--How sad for those of 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­RAFFLE RAFFLE RAFFFLE RAFFLE 
us who don't! Well. campers--looks likeLOST-Black SEIKO watch the Thurs standing brothei:'Sister sports camps Friday will be summer camp revival NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for night before Spring Break, most likely at on largest lake In New England near beginning with a good ole game of bas­CASH II Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash Bridget's. $REWARD$-x1142 "ON GOLDEN POND" site seek staff. 
PI DELTA LAMBDAS ketbaii(Yes Amy, you can be captain! 
or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK All TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: SPARKY. HELP!!! I can't find the Joeys would like to thank everyone who par­
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Roblndel (girls) 215--884-3326, ·•
anywhere. If they're with you please feed 

Ave.(walk1ng distance from campus) ph. Wlnaukee (boys) 203-227-4387 or see tlclpated In Phone Tag on Saturday, TO SOMEONE I HOLD DEAR: Thanks 
them and mail them back to me. Thank

233-2342 us on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 AM-2PM March 25, 1989. for a great Easter weekend. I'll never
FOR RENT 
you for a wonderful visit. I miss you. Love. 

at LaFortune. forget all the fun we had. let's go
I I 
MEA 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL kiting again soon!!! MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Anyone wanting to rent a Turtle Creek Love,
Vote MARCIE and JULIE

Apartment during the summer months NOTICE: In response to union pressures, A. Lemonjello
B.P. Co-Presidents tor 89-90 

contact Lisa at # 4886. the HALE COW WEEK portion of Z
The FUN and TRADITION continue!!!

Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms for BALLS WEEK has been cancelled. 5th
Local Not-For-Profit Organization has 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 floor library residents may now breathe All in favor say Aye ... CONGRATS C!
Open1ngs for Oualif1ed Persons in our SCAP..... The Word of the Future!!! Usenlghta with $100 deposit per room. a sigh of relief. However, the Daily Double You're now a DEMOCRATIC VIRGIN!
Res1denllal Homes. Residential Assis­itNOWtl
219-291-7153. 
Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., special will continue with WEEN TED ..... Yes, you too can be a virgin... JusttantS'Substitutes Prov1des care and treat­Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262·1581. WEEK substituting in the final 2 days. TAKE A VOTEI
ment for Developmentally Disabled SEAN & THE SUN KINGS 
..... ·············· 
Call Ween Ted at 3410 and tell him youadults. Flexible work schedules. Valid Friday at Club 23
NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 
HOPING TO ADOPT like the way he handles his driver. But APRIL FOOLS DAYDriver's L1cense and Transportation Live Acoustic Music
287-6389, 683-8889. 
We're a happily married, financially only l Balls knows how good his game
needed. Full-time, Part-time, and Sub­SEAN & THE SUN KINGS secure couple with a beautiful home really is. BEAUX ARTS BALL
stitutes. Reply to: LOGAN 1235 N. Eddy. 
MALE GRADUATES and lots of love to share with much­BEAUX ARTS BALLP.q Box 1049. South Bend, IN, 46624. 
FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, wanted baby. If you are pregnant and FREDDY JONES FREDDY JONES .
289-4831 FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272-Cavanaugh Hall Productions
considering placing your baby for FREDDY JONES THE FREDDY JONES "A FOOLS PARADISE" 
0615. presents
adoption, please call us. We can help BAND
SOPHOMORES !!! Woody Allen's you, and you can help us make our at BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S THURS. 10:00 SAT. APR. 1ST ARKIE BLDG.
DON'T DRINK THE WATER

HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE 
lives complete. Expenses paid. Con­TO FIGHT AGAINST M.S
Are you ready for advanced registra­SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232-3616 Thursday-Friday-Saturday
fidential, legal. Call Deborah and DON'T BE A FOOL AND MISS IT
tion on April 20th? library Aud1toriumDavid collect day or night at 312935-IT WILL BE A BALL
Have you selected your major? 7:30p.m.4088, or call our counselor collect at THE FREDDY JONES BAND F6 THE
If you answered no, consider register­Admission: FREE
312280-8744. FREDDY JONES BAND
Ing for the Career,Major Decision 
WANTED ·I 
BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S THURS. 10:00 HEATHER, I THINK YOU'RE THE BIG­Making Workshop starting the week BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S THURS. 10:00 GEST "B" IN THE WORLD AND THEof April 3rd at the University Counsel­To Stanford hall's Rick Astley: I danced HELP IN THE FIGHT AGAINST WAY YOU JERK DON AROUNDIng Center. Call 239-7336 to register CAMP MILLHOUSE NEEDS GET READY, THE FISHER HALL with you at the post-S! Pat's Day Dance 
MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS REALLY SUCKS!!! 
or for more information WATERFRONT. NATURALIST, FINE REGATTA IS COMING SOON. IF YOU in a room with a German flag on the wall. ARTS, MALE COUNSELORS. ROOM. WOULD LIKE TO COMPETE IN THIS Unfortun-ately, I do not remember your FREDDY JONES FREDDY JONES BOARD, INSURANCI!, TIME OFF, YEAR'S HOMEMADE BOAT RACE name but I would like to dance with you 
HELP TO END MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS COME OUT AND HAVE A BALLPLAYS FOR M.S. SOCIETY BRIDGET COMPETITIVE PAY. JUNE 9-AUGUST CONTACT YOUR HALL PRES. again. What floor do you live on? 
COME TO SEE FREDDY JONES BANDMCGUIRE'S THUR. 10:00 RAFFLE -Forgetful
19. LEA 234-1169. 
FREDDY JONES BAND FREDDY BEAUX ARTS BALLRAFFLE RAFFLE 
SMC ND ROME SUMMER PROGRAM 
JONES BAND Is anyone looking for a roommate FOR ALL COLLEGE STUDENTS. JUNE 
or AT BRIDGET MCQUIRE'S THURS. "A FOOLS PARADISE" 
congrats msu. beat be to advance to apartment in CHICAGO this SUMMER? 18-JULY 17. TRAVEL IN PARIS, GER-BOO-Congrats on the G.R. job offer! I THURS. 10:00 10:00 10:00hockey final four. love you!! BEAU
So am I! Call Dan at x4115. 
MANY. SWITZ. AND ITALY. COURSES APRIL FOOLS DAY ARK IE BLDG. IN HISTORY AND LANGUAGE. HELP FIGHT MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS !! 
NEED BAND TO PlAY CARIB­Going to DAYTON, Ohio??? I need a
MEETING APRIL 3 IN ROOM 349 WATCH THE FREDDY JONES BAND THE BACKSTREET BLUES BAND 
BEAN-REGGAE MUSIC.FRI & SAT ride there this weekend. Will help with
Need a baby sitter? MBA in need of extra MADELEVA. SLIDES. PIZZA. ETC. FOR THE FREDDY JONES BAND TIX: $3 dining halls $4 at door 
expenses... Call Eileen :3897

NIGHTS THRU APRIL GAPT ALEXAN­
$$ loves kids. Contact Maggie at 232-INFO CALL PROF. A.A. BLACK AT 284-THE FREDDY JONES BAND 9:30p-2:00a
DER'S WARF. FOR MORE INFO.,CALL
3372. 4460 OR 272-3726. 
234-4477. 
BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S THURS. 10:00 NOT JUST FOR ARKIES HELP FIGHT MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS AN TOSTAL'89 GENERAL MEETING THURS. 10:00 BUT FOR FOOLS AT BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S ND LIBRARY AUDITORIUM SUNDAY, THURSDAY 10:00 APRIL 2 9 P.M. AIAS-ND AlAS-NO AIAS-ND AlAS-NO
FOR SALE
THURSDAY 10:00 MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS NIGHT THURSDAY 10:00 HAVE A BALL, AT AT SENOR KELLY'S DON'T BE A FOOL AND MISS IT WITH THE FREDDY JONES BAND 
WE ARE ONE WORLD GOVERNMENT HOMES! From $1.00 (U ND-SMC CHARITY BALL
WITH THE FREDDY JONES BAND THE CHARITY BALL FEATURING: THE STONE PUPPIES 
Repair). Foreclosures, Repos, Tax
WITH THE FREDDY JONES BAND THE STONE PUPPIES THE STONE KNOTI HALL WOMEN 
Delinquent Properties. Now Selling with THE GROOVE
RAFFLE PRIZES. RAFFLE PRIZES !I!! Fri .. March 31 PUPPIES VOTE FOR MARY PAT & LISA WHEN
This Area! Call (Refundable 1-315-733­SATURDAY NIGHT 10:00 EXPERIENCE COUNTS, COUNT ON
6064 Ext G2382H For Current Listings! South Dining Hall us
SATURDAY NIGHT 10:00 LOCAL SWIMMING POOL COMPANY 
booths from around the world BMW R9(}6 Motorcycle. 1976. 6 semi-formal
STONE PUPPIES HAS OPENINGS FOR FULL-TIME CORBETT & MACKETT KNOTT HALL 
STONE PUPPIES thousand orig. miles, excellent condition, tix at LaFortune info deskEMPLOYEES . OUTSIDE WORK, NOTHING TO DO AFTER THE NCAA'S? PRES. AND V.PRES 
STONE PUPPIES brown, stock, $2200. 872-7315. $10 couple $6 single
GREAT EARNING POTENTIAL CALL NOTHING TO DO AFTER THE NCAA'S? SENOR KELLY'S SENOR KELLY'S SERGIO'S SUNGOD POOLS, 287-9283 NOTHING TO DO AFTER THE NCAA'S? NANCY KESMODEL
For Sale: 1 way ticket from O'HARE to ...
SENOR KELLY'S SENOR KELLY'S FOR APPT. WATCH THE STONE PUPPIES Is it wuv? Twue wuv?Portland,OR 5"13 at 10 A.M.$175 Call HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­
SENOR KELLY'S WATCH THE STONE PUPPIES Teddybears can do that to you­
Mary P. at X 4015. MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from
SATURDAY NIGHT 10:00 SATURDAY To the person whose car I backed into And do you know exactly WHERE and NIGHT 10:00 on March 17 call Bill x 2346 Chicago Detroit, or Cleveland for no AT SENOR KELLY'S SAT. 10:00 AT WHAT you intersect to the norMAL? I'm more than $229, or from the East Coast 
SENOR KELLY'S SAT. 10:00 questioning if "IT will find a way"!!!!! Will for no more than $160 with AIR­
..~_~·_·~c_ HI again, AG. you just?!-Bitsy
r-~o_..M_..~_·~-Y-AFT_ ..A_.A_·s_,..... T_IC_K_E_I_S
... _ER_r_ ~I___ __~ HITCH(TM), as reported In Consumer Reports, NY Times, Let's Go, and na­tional network morning shows. For PW and PE spirit week is coming!! Get
SMC MANAGEMENT CLUB HAPPY BIRTHDAY Mike Cunningham!
details, 212-864-2000 write: psyched for lots of fun next week!!!
I __U_N_o___.l PRESENTS call or Get the Love Loft ready! Your favorite 2
..._L_O_S_T_IFO '....~ ~'" ,, 288.:4160 
m 
DOUG MOSELL AIRHITCH(TM) 2901 Broadway, Suite roommates are coming over ·the BadinMONEY MONEY MONEY 
"THE ART OF LEADERSHIP" 1000, NY, NY 10025.. SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL Women LOST LOST LOST BUILDING STRUC­
I NEED GRADUATION TIX and I can 
MARCH 29 LAST CHANCE TO BUY BIDS 
TURES TEXTBOOK GREY AND WHITE make it worth your while, call Dan at BADINITES UNITE!!!!! Wed. April 5, 7-9pm in LaFortune
HAGGAR PARLOR, 6 PM STONE PUPPIES COVER HARDBOUND PLEASE CALL 
3365. 
Get measured for tux. arrange table STONE PUPPIES TERRY X2706 I REALLY NEED THIS 
seating, and room reservations. STONE PUPPIES BOOK I!! 
DESPERATELY SEEKING DRUMMER Two guys who don't do their own laundry­
NEED GRADUATION TIX! WILL PAY$$. 
FOR BAIN SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS ·live at Mateo's Friday n1ght. No geeks LOST IN ALUMNI HALL AT IRISH 
CALL 277-9'!50. 
BAND NO METAL CALLx1749 SPIRIT BUY SR. FORMAL BIDS APRIL 5TH allowed WAKE: small black purse with WEEK LAFORTUNE 7-9PM embroidered flowers. Keys inside # 224, WE NEED A MIRACLE!!!!! AT LEAST 2 Thank you Sacred Heart of Jesus. Thankyou St. Jude for a prayer an­no ID. PLEASE call 4228 at NO. TIX WANTED FOR SHOWS IN LOUIS­Blessed Mother, Saint Jude, and Saint IrS HERE!!!!!!!! swered. 
VILLE AND CINCINNATI. CALL DAN OR Joseph for prayers answered. MAGGIE MACDONALD: Best of luck to­LOST black. stylish Ray-Bans in Senior CHRIS AT 4079 OR LEAVE MESSAGE. fnight. love, all your second floor pals!! BODACIOUS BROAD Seeks Inter­Bar Sat. 3118. Not only were they expen­Little Steven is in step ested male for purely physical rei• 
sive. bu1 they were a gift from my room­ANYONE, ANYONE? Lost my key (231) BEAUX ARTS BALL tlonshlp. Serious replies only. Intelli­mates giving them high sentimental BEAUX ARTS BALL
on St. Pat's Day at St. Andrew's church. gence not necessary. Reply here. A.C. value. Please call Colleen 2682 or Mary EX NO STAFFER & SPOUSE DESIRE Please call x2866 if you found it!
PERSONALS 
1704. FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR SUM­SAT. APRIL 1ST ARCHITECTURE 
................................. Peppy, athletic male with sullen fe•
MER. REPLY 135 LAKEVIEW DR., BLDG. 
LOST: Long grayisM>Iack Cassidy coat Hey babe, life, nice bod. where'd lures seeks spirited female for fun and
mce MULBERRY, Fl 33860. STATE RENT HEH PHILL Y! Thank you for a wonder­
with speckled colors. Lost on Saturday REQUIRED INCLUDING UTILITIES. games. Must be willing to try different
you dig it up?-3 sees ful Easter weekend. I hope you enjoy "A FOOLS PARADISE" (gee that rhymes with something) your Mother's Day as much as I en­
the 18th. Contains ID and other valu­positions. Reply here. D.B. ables REWARD offered. Call Sara at MICHELLE "CHICKEN BUTT" LYNCH-­joyed Easter. TIX: $3 PRESALE $4 AT DOOR 4825. You make me SMILE!!!!!!! I hope your YOU WOULD BE A FOOL TO MISS IT DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE OR TO hi ag dale shows up for the formal... You are love, Molly SHARE AN APARTMENT IN DOWN­LOST· Black suede San Francisco Bay AWESOME!!!!!! 
TOWN CHICAGO THIS SUMMER? SO 
hat wrth brown leather trim. Lost Saturday SUMMER JOBS APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING AC­NEED ANY DEROGATORY MIAMI 
DO I-BUT YOU NEED TO BE A 18th Very recognizable. REWARD of· All LANDWATER SPORTS MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SOCIETY CEPTED FOR FRESHMAN ORIENTA­FOOTBALL T SHIRT!I! PLEASE CALL 
FEMALE. OR MY MOTHER WILL KILL 
fered. Call Sara at 4825. PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
and TION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE '89. RANDI X4977 ME! CALL TARA 284·4014 ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S Please pick them up Lost: Brown leather jacket at NAZZ. Last 
NEAR LAKE PLACID PRESENTS in the secretary's office, 2nd MITCHELL-YOU ARE DEAR SANDY. Dennis may be far away, name MRUZ in back. Please call lisa CALL 1-800-343-8373 FREDDY JONES FREDDY JONES floor of LaFortune. CRUISIN ... DUDE.. I RESPECT but I'll always be here to help you ou1. 
x1338. THURSDAY THURSDAY THURSDAY Applications due April 3rd. 5 p.m. THAT... SWEET!! ITALY# 1 Keep your chin up, buddy!! Love, Rozel 
~-~-~--~~~-~---------------------~~----­

page 12 The Observer Thursday, March 30, 1989 
Sass Shaffer resigns as MCC Commissioner
continued from page 20 



the team with 25 RBI in 18 
games, and he is 12-for-22 with 
15 RBI in his last six games. 
Catcher Ed Lund also en­
joyed a successful day at the 
plate, raising his average to 
.300 by collecting three hits in 
four at-bats and scoring two 
runs. 
"I said before the season that 
Sass and Lund have to play," 
said Murphy, "because we 
know what we're going to get 
out of Pesavento and (Dan) 
Peltier. (Mike) Moshier is 
steady, and we know our pitch­
ing staff is not real talented but 
steady. We need to get those 
guys to perform, and so far 
they have." 
Moshier and Pat Eilers both 
had solid days at the plate, with 
Moshier going 2-for-4 with one 
RBI and Eilers going 1-for-2 (a 
double), walking twice and 
~nocking in a run. 
With the Irish up 4-1 in the seventh inning, Notre Dame scored three runs on four hits. Pesavento hit a two-out double to left, and Sass singled him home. 
Lund then singled to left, sen­
ding Sass to third, and he took . second on the throw. Junior Dan Peltier then ripped a single to right, scoring Lund 
and Sass. 
Peltier now has 19 RBI on the 
season and 127 in his career. 
He needs only two more runs 
batted in to become Notre 
Dame's all-time leader. Tim 
Hutson, a 1988 grad, currently 
holds the team record with 128 
RBI. 
Special to The Observer 

INDIANAPOLIS--James W. Shaffer, the Midwestern Col­legiate Conference's first full­time commissioner, announced his resignation today to accept a position as vice president of public affairs at Butler Univer­sity. 
"Jim Shaffer brings strong credentials in public relations, and has a proven record in management," said Dr. Geof­frey Bannister, Butler Univer­sity president. "We've seen the results of Jim's energy and im­agination in the MCC and we know he will play an important role in further strengthening the university's joint commit-
March Thurs.---30 Dirty Harry Fri. ---31 Cocktail 
8: 00 pm and 10: 15 showtimes 
ment to academic and athletic development.'' 
As vice president of public af­fairs Shaffer will report di­rectly to President Bannister and have primary responsibil­ity for all public relations and public affairs matters concern­ing the university. This will in­clude all press and media rela­tions, government relations and responsibility for internal communications with faculty members, students, alumni and Trustees. 
Shaffer also will have over­sight of the university's ath­letics and publications depart­ments. 
"Our reaction to Jim's resig­nation is one of mixed emo­tions,'' said MCC President Jef­frey H. Fogelson, Xavier University director of ath­letics. "Selfishly, we are very sorry that he is departing. He has provided outstanding lead­ership to the MCC. 

"The growth of the confer­ence culminated this year with our most successful tourna­ment ever, two teams in the NCAA Tournament and Saint Louis competing for the NIT Championship," Fogelson con­tinued. 
Shaffer assumed his position as MCC commissioner in Sep­tember, 1984. During his ten­ure, the conference expanded to nine members with the ad­dition in the past two years of the University of .Dayton, Mar­quette UniversitY. and the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. The MCC has broadened its base as a Division I conference by add­ing women's athletics, and has increased its sports sponsor­ship to 15. 
"This is an outstanding op­portunity for my family and career," Shaffer said. "It has been a privilege to serve the MCC as its first full-time com­missioner. The conference has only positive growth ahead of itself. I have enjoyed working with first-class people at each of the MCC institutions and have appreciated their support of the conference an staff." 

Thursday, March 30, 1989 
The Observer page 13 
could be due to challenge meetings. They acquired two Outfielders Eric Davis and again. .300 hitters in first baseman Kal Daniels are determined to
AL West NL West
George Brett and Frank Rafael Palmeiro and second shed the label of "potential su­
continued from page 20 
White are still the cornerstones baseman Julio Franco. That continued from page 20 perstar" this season, and John 
Jose will get the chance to be­come Oakland's fourth straight Rookie of the Year. Jose hit .317 with 12 homers and 83 RBis in 133 games at Tacoma last year. 
Other big guns back for Oak­land are Mark McGwire (.260, 32, 99), All-Star MVP catcher Terry Steinbach, outfielder Dave Henderson, 1988 Rookie of the Year shortstop Walt Weiss and veteran third baseman Carney Lansford. Dave Stewart (21-12 last year) leads the pitching staff, while Dennis Eckersley is coming off a 45-save season in the bullpen. 
Those chasing the A's have their work cut out for them. The Kansas City Royals are the team of the 80s in the West and 
,._______________________ ture with the Mariners boast­

of the Royals. At 35, Brett hit .306 with 24 homers and 103 runs batted in. In order to con­tend, Kansas City needs a strong performance from Bo Jackson and a comeback from pitching ace Bret Saberhagen. 
The Minnesota Twins won more games last year than when they won the World Series in 1987, but that was still not good enough to beat the A's. Frank Viola, Gary Gaetti and Kirby Puckett have been three of the most consistent performers in baseball during the last few years. 
Down in Texas, the Rangers have a new look, having shocked baseball with a series of trades at the winter 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
FOR 
LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTERSTUDENT EMPLOYEES 
RECRUITMENT & INFORMATION NIGHT 
MONDAY, APRIL 3, 7pm-8pm, DOOLEY ROOM, 3RD FLOOR 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Building Supervisors 
Information Desk 
LaFortune Box Office 
Recreation Room 
Sound Technicians 
The present staff will be available April 3 to 
answer any questions for interested students. Applications will be accepted that night. Final application deadline will be APRIL 14. Applications should be returned to the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
should help their scoring woes, as they scored just 4.0 runs per game in '88. 
Texas hopes two old veterans still have some life in them. The Rangers signed fireballer Nolan Ryan and designated hit­ter Buddy Bell to contracts during the off-season. 
The California Angels are getting the most attention of any team this spring because of one-armed rookie pitcher Jim Abbott. The Angels need comeback years from Mike Witt and Wally Joyner to mount any challenge. 
At the bottom of the division are the Chicago White Sox and the Seattle Mariners. Both teams are gearing for the fu­
ing rookie hopeful 
Ken Griffey, Jr. 

Projected order of finish: Oakland, Kansas City, Min­nesota, Texas, California, Seattle and Chicago. 
and John Kruk, and second baseman Roberto Alomar. 
The Padres quite possibly have the two finest catchers in the majors in Benito Santiago and Sandy Alomar, Jr. San­tiago is unparalleled in throw­ing out baserunners, and Alomar can be used as trade bait in San Diego's quest to find a quality third baseman. 
If the Padres can avoid their propensity for slow starts, they should be able to hold off strong challenges from Cincinnati and Los Angeles to take the pen­nant. 
Cincinnati has finished second the last four years in a row. Better make that five. 
Strong pitching and offensive firepower will propel the Reds to the brink of first place, but manager Pete Rose's gam­bling problems and the ever­intrusive personality of owner Marge Schott will hold them back. 

2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Franco will prove beyond a doubt that he is the best lef­thanded reliever in the Na­tional Leae:ue. 
How far Los Angeles goes in its quest to repeat as World Se­ries champions will depend in large part on Gibson's right knee. If he is healthy, the Dodgers are capable of pulling off inspirational victories like those in last year's World Se­ries. 
If he is not, the focus will fall on two grizzled veterans: first baseman Eddie Murray and second baseman Willie Ran­dolph (who will replace the departed Steve Sax). 
Hershiser once again will win 20 games for the Dodgers, and catcher Mike Scioscia will con­tinue his steady play behind the plate, but a repeat of last season's stunning playoff drive is improbable. 
San Francisco also could challenge San Diego, Cincin­nati and Los Angeles for the pennant, but the Giants might have peaked too early when they won the division title in 1987. 
First baseman Will Clark and centerfielder Brett Butler key what's left of the Giant of­fense • 
Houston again boasts one of the finest pitching staffs in the majors, but the Astros did noth­ing in the offseason to improve their offense. 
Atlanta finds itself in the midst of yet another rebuilding year, but the Braves will re-. quire major renovations in 1989 
HAMMES 
DTREDAM 
Scotch 
8RANO 

~., ••• a.-.~•r• 
,........-.........­
I""''..,
.........--,.,... ,........ ,_ 
Scotch Magic Tape 
21$.99 
Post-it Memo Cubes Bright color pads will stick to almost anything­
$2.99 
Post-it Note Pads 3 pack 
$.99 

' . . . -. I
---~~---~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
' • 'f 
... "· Thursday, March 30, 1989
page 14 The Observer 
Hynes 
continued from page 18 
team. Sometimes I think she worries too much. But she takes her responsibilities very seriously, both as a fencer and a captain. Janice is the defini­tion of dedication." 
It has been exactly that dedication which has allowed Hynes to lead the women's team back into the national spotlight. After winning the NCAA championship two years ago, the Irish finished second last year to Wayne State. 
But this year they have rebounded with unexpected suddeness. As captain, Hynes has set the example for a young group of fencers whose top four spots consist of two seniors, a 
Quigley 
continued from page 20 
didn't execute that well, so that was a good strategy," Petoso said. 
Nonetheless, it looked as if the Falcons might fly away from the Irish with 10:04 remaining in the third quarter. Air Force broke loose from a 3-3 halftime score to tally two goals in 30 seconds and grab momentum. 
But the Irish answered a min­ute later in a man-up situation on freshman Chris Nelson's goal. They then tied the score on a transition goal with 2:55 left in the period. 
On that play, freshman Mike Sullivan sprinted down the field and passed to an open Olmstead on the left of the crease. Olmstead then whipped the ball ball across the crease to junior Brian McHugh, who finished off the picture-perfect fast break goal by beating Air Force goalie Michael Parent. 
But Air Force scored with :40 left in the third quarter to take a 6-5 lead and set-up the big Irish finish. 
Notre Dame came out fast in the final quarter, scoring three consecutive goals to earn a 8-6 advantage. 
Olmstead chipped in the third goal of that run with 8: 04 remaining when he fooled a Falcon defender by turning in­side towards the goal. 
"(Irish assistant coach) Gerry Byrne was noticing how they were overplaying my sophomore and a freshman. Yet the squad soundly defeated the defending national cham­pions from WSU in both dual meets this season. 
"I feel that our chances are as good as anyone," said Hynes. "We have a good, solid team this year and have already beat some top con­tenders. I know a lot of people on some of the other teams, but I can only think of one or two top people while we have three solid fencers." 
In the past two weeks, the Irish women have spent time training with some very elite fencers. Former national champion and Irish captain Molly Sullivan helped prepare the women's squad. In addi­tion, All American Caitlin Bilodeaux, featured in a Sports Illustrated article when she won the gold medal while at Co­lumbia, worked out with the women's team during their NCAA preparations. 
"It has been a long two weeks, but I don't think that it hurt us," said Hynes. "I think that we're finally unified. It all started when we beat Wayne State. Since then, we've been performing as a team." 
This year will be Hynes' last chance to lead the Irish to the championship. Nothing would be sweeter than to see four long years of hard work and deter­mination pay off with a na­tional title. 
"It's definitely a nice way to finish," said Hynes. "And at this point, I'm planning on it being that way." 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Irish Outdoors will have a meeting Tuesday, April 4, at 7:30p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. Plans for the April 22 Dunes trip and a post-exam trip to Cum­berland Island will be discussed. -The Observer 
The 7 -foot Jordan Jammer Mini-Hoops Tournament will have registrations Monday, April 3, from 7 to 9 p.m., in SUB office in Lafortune. The field is limited to 50, 3-person teams. The championship will be held before the Bookstore finals. Call Tim Healy at 277-1180 for more information. 
-The Observer 
Ultimate Frisbee will have late signups Monday, April 3, from 7 to 9 p.m., in the SUB office at Lafortune. Call Tom at x3281 for more information. -The Observer 
Off-Campus needs baseball players for its game this weekend. Call Chris at 277-7387 or Pete at 271-8311 for more information. -The Observer 
Off-campus lacrosse will practice at 4 p.m. Friday at Cartier Field. The next game is Tuesday, April 4, at 9 
p.m. against Dillon. Call Bill at 287-5758 for more informa­tion. -The Observer 
Markus Knipp defeated Steve Guthrie 3-0 to win the Insilco "D" Squash tourney held at the Joyce ACC. Knipp is eligible to compete in the regional tourney in April at Chicago. -The Observer 
lnterhall baseball needs umpires. $8 per game. Stop by the NVA office or call239-6100 if interested. -The Obser­ver 

right hand and he said I should be able to roll inside --and it worked," Olmstead explained. 
But Air Force wouldn't go away. Falcons' leading scorer John Dimento tallied his fourth goal of the game on an outside bounce shot with 3: 42 remain­ing, and it was then that the Irish had to keep their com­posure. 
Olmstead led the late charge by tallying two more goals to put the game out of reach. The first of those goals came off the faceoff following an Air Force score which had cut the lead to 8-7. 
On that play, Quigley scooped up the successful John Capano faceoff and raced downfield, drawing away Olmstead's defender before as­sisting the fourth all-time Irish scorer for the ninth Irish score. 

Applications are now being accepted for 
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE 1989 
They are available in LaFortune in the 2nd Floor (Secretary's Office). The deadline date for submitting the application is Monday, April 3 at 5:00pm. 

Thursday, March 30, 1989 

Save up to 50% off the Suggested Retail Price on Apple brand peripherals with the purchase of qualifying Macintosh® Systems. Rebates up to $800 per system. Hurry, offer expires March 31. 
I~... ull-titne Students, 
Faculty and Staff, Contact: Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25 Computing Center 
239-7477 
Hours: 9:00 -5:00 pm Monday thru Friday 
© 1989 Apple Computer, Inc. , Apple, the Apple logo and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 

I 
] 
i j 
J 
! 
. ~ 
I 
' 
I ~ 
.I 
1 
I 
I 
j 
--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Boston Red Sox will need pitcher Roger troversy and repeat as American League Division Clemens to be at his best this season if they are champions. to overcome the ever-present Wade Boggs con-
NL East 
continued from page 20 
other year. They're in the World Series one year and in the second division the next season. 
Well, if things hold true to form, the Redbirds will return to the Series in '89. The prob­lem is that in those other World Series years, the Cards had a legitimate power hitter in Jack Clark and a solid pitching staff. 
An aging Pedro Guerrero is no Jack Clark. In the starting rotation, Danny Cox is sidelined for the season with an elbow injury. Nonetheless, Joe Magrane (last year's earned run average leader) should emerge as a star this season, and no Whitey Herzog team could have two bad years in a row. 
If the Cards do return to form, New Yorkers had better look out.· As powerful as the Mets are, they still have not 
proved they  can  win  a  close  
divisional race.  
The  Pittsburgh  Pirates  

showed last year that they are a reputable ballclub, but they 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUfiON OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITIITION 
·n1c w,TJs "·e he tr-· 
' ' 
also gave every indication that they choke in big games. 
Every time the Bucs came close to the Mets, they would lose a series to New York and fall back with the rest of the pack. 
Unless they correct that, the Pirates will finish behind the Mets and a rejuvenated Car­dinal team. 
No matter where you pick the Montreal Expos, you always underestimate them. The big­gest underachievers of the late '70s and early '80s have become major overachievers. 
But with Pascual Perez back in a drug rehabilitation clinic, it's hard to picture big things coming from Montreal this season. And even if Tim Raines returns to form, can you really imagine Rex Hudler and Otis Nixon playing as well as they did in '88? 
Is the Chicago Cubs' decision to release Rich Gossage and AI Nipper a sign that they have decided these pitchers are stiffs or that they finally have realized their 1986 trades with San Diego and Boston were big mistakes? 
Either way, the Cubs made the right decision. Unfortun­ately, you can't take back those trades, and Lee Smith still pitches for Boston. 
In 1950, the Philadelphia Phillies called themselves the "Whiz Kids" as they won the National League pennant. For the last few years, the Phils have played like the "Diz Kids." 
Things shouldn't be too dif­ferent in Philly this summer. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
DAD! 
You'll always be *" 1 in my heart. 


Love, Your lil' Domer 
If you have more than 20 pages to read, don't forget the sunscreen. 
Mail this coupon, or call 1-800-FINDS-1'\U; in Ulinois, (312) 491-4114. 
AL East 
continued from page 20 
frot'n the right side. 
Catcher B.J. Surhoff will recover from his sophomore slump, and won't be back at third base unless perennial All­Star and perennial DL member Paul Molitor gets hurt again and moves to DH. Despite in­juries, Molitor hit .312 last season, scoring 190 runs, driving in 60 and stealing 41 bases. 
Not joining him on the infield is Robin Yount, who will again play outfield for the Brewers. Yount hit .306 with 91 RBis in 1988. The veterans are joined by a cast of young, talented players and a little-known manager who led Milwaukee to a surprising third-place finish last season. 
The Boston Red Sox are still smirking at the Chicago Cubs over the Lee Smith-for-Al­Nipper-and-Calvin-Schiraldi deal last year. The Cubs just released Nipper, and Smith is going to save 40 games and lead the Red Sox into a tight race with the Brewers for the AL East crown. 
Manager (The Other) Joe Morgan came in and put the once-floundering Sox into the American League Champion­ship Series. Morgan won't have the services of lefthander Bruce Hurst, who signed on with the Padres, but the pitch­ing is still on par with the rest of the division. 
Thursday, March 30, 1989 
The Margo Adams I Wade Boggs thing won't affect the Red Sox much, especially if Boggs gets traded, which is what General Manager Lou Gorman wants. But remem­ber, Gorman has gotten the best of his recent trades. 
The Toronto Blue Jays will come close once again, but the title will stay in the states. The Jays are on the way out, and haven't done much to replace the worn spots in the lineup, and a team can put up with a whiner like George Bell for only so long. 
The once awesome outfield is getting more and more mediocre, but the infield is get­ting better, especially first baseman Fred McGriff, who was second in the league with 34 home runs last year. 
Once again this year, the Yankees will pretend to be as good as they think they are, and once again, they will fail to prove it on the field. 
Detroit is okay. They have a terrific manager in Sparky An­derson, but he doesn't have the talent this year to battle with 
the  Brewers,  Sox  and  Blue  
Jays.  
Cleveland  and  Baltimore  
probably won't be  as  bad  as  

last year, but that's not saying much. It's a battle for the bot­tom for these two. 
t
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIE1Ys 





.....--.... ELIZABETH C. HOWLJORDAN New & Used Gars & Trucks FORD 
Ext. 667 
lOYOlA

~0~\) 
VOLVO 

~t;.~CD~'{ 
r..,Q 1\"\.)~\t. 09 E '"""w" ""'"'"' """"'""'"'·""
Q pt"'V Po Bo• 370 Elkhart Area CaP (219)674-9926?~ G~~~ L.:.lv1:...::.•s:...::.ha__:wa::__:ka_:_.__:IN_46;_:_54_::_5___1n_d_•an_a_To_n_Fr_ee_(800--'-)4_5_1-6_5:>_611 
0 
$400 REBATE* 
Largest Ford Inventory #1 Selling Ford Dealer in Country For furrther information, call Elizabeth 
* This is in addition to any present program 
Northwestern University Summer Session '89 Think or swim. 
2003 Sheridan Road Evanston, Illinois 60208-2650 
Save me a seat. Send me a free copy of the Summer Session '89 catalog with financial aid and registration information (available mid-March). 

------·-··------------­
School .-\ddress City State Zip 
·--·-----····-­

Home .\!!dress 
City State Zip 


Thursday, March 30, 1989 
The Observer 

Edwards leaving college early to pursue professional career 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.--­With his selection as Big Ten Conference player of the year and a second-team All­American, Jay Edwards felt he 
"had  nothing  more  to  ac­ 
complish"  at  Indiana,  assis­ 
tant  athletic  director  Steve  

Downing said Wednesday. 
The 6-foot-4 sophomore, who averaged 20 points a game and led the Hoosiers to the Big Ten title, announced his intention to pass up his final two years of college eligibililty and make himself available in the June 27 NBA draft, Downing said. 
In a statement released by the Indiana sports information office, Knight said: "I wish Jay the very best and hope his deci­sion works out well for him." 
The only other underclas­sman to leave early to play pro-
STEAKS 
fessional basketball during Knight's 18 years as coach was Isiah Thomas, who departed eight years ago after leading the Hoosiers to the second of their three NCAA champion­ships under Knight. 
George McGinnis also left In­diana after his sophomore season, a year before Knight became coach. 
Edwards led Marion High School to three straight state tourney titles from 1985-87 and shared the Indiana Mr. Basket­ball award with Hoosier team­mate Lyndon Jones. 
Bill Green, who coached Ed­wards and Jones at Marion and McGinnis at Indianapolis Washington 20 years ago, said Wednesday after learning of Edwards' decision: "Jay's not physically ready to go to the NBA. Talent-wise, he has the talent. It's going to be a learn­ing situation for Jay in the next few years." 
Comparing the 6-foot-8 McGinnis, who weighed 235 
Edwards-; who also was the Big Ten freshman of the year in 1988, had a two-year career 
average of about 18 points  a  
game.  
"Jay  told  me  today  he  is  

going to the NBA and apply for hardship," Downing said in a prepared statement. "He felt he had nothing more to ac­complish at Indiana. He said with his player of the year honor in the Big Ten, he would never be any hotter (as an NBA prospect) than he is now." 
Edwards, who said on Tues­day he expected to make a deci­sion within a week, declined further comment. He has had academic problems at Indiana and underwent a drug rehabilitation program last fall. 
He was suspended for five games in December 1987 be­cause of grades, and his ath­letic scholarship was revoked last summer because of more academic problems and unpaid library fines. 
In September, after testing positive for an undisclosed drug, Edwards was suspended from the team. Knight never officially announced his reinstatement, although Ed­wards was back with the team when practice began in Octo­ber. 
Fencer 
continued from page 18 
Olympian, and six-time Ottawa provincial Junior champion. 
Few items are left on the awards list of things to do for Nowosielski. Except a national championship or a gold medal. 
"Leszek is a great fencer," said Irish head coach Michael DeCicco. "He works both on a personal level when trying to win circuit events and individ­ual competitions and on a team level when he travels with Notre Dame. Leszek continues to amaze me by his never en­ding improvement as a fen­
unable  to  benefit  from  a  
workout  with  the  fencing  
alumnae.  

cer." 

After completing his second undefeated season, Nowosielski became the num­ber one seed out of the Midwest Region. 
: ~ ~ ~ 1 r ~ --.. ~ ..
AT,·rrE,·"NlTI·o·· N
' ,: -I ; i ! . .· ~ 
~ ! , : ' ·. -~ 
~'~ ~ . ='"'" 
JUNIORSII 
Sign-ups for your 
SENIOR PORTAITS 

will be held April 3,4,5,6,7 Lunch hours at both North and South Dining Halls 
Photos To Be Taken April 10,11 

"As far as I'm concerned, he's the number one sabre seed for the whole tournament," said DeCicco. "A lot of people are looking for him to take the gold medal this year.'' 
However, implicit in all of Nowosielski's international and circuit competitions are commitment and discipline. But during the last two weeks while the Irish had at their dis­posal the likes of former Irish All Americans Mike Sullivan and Tim Glass, Nowosielski found himself elsewhere and 
"Experience counts for a lot in fencing," said Nowosielski, "But college is still quite dif­ferent from the international level. On a given day, anything can happen. I think that the out­side help recently has helped the team quite a bit." 


at 
Date: March 30-April 4 Location: Evanston, Illinois Last year:Both Notre Dame teams finished 2nd at last year's championships. 
Always a national power, Irish h~ad for NCAAs 
duo of Leszek Nowosielski and Holeman will be joined by and Todd Griffee (39-8). Last Leiser (33-10), both membersBy CHRIS FILLIO David Kirby. Nowosielski has senior three time All-American year, Fay placed 18th overall of the 1987 national champion­
Sports Writer 
a vast wealth of experience on Yehuda Kovacs (31-1). At last while Griffee was the silver ship squad. Freshman Heidi The Irish men's and women's the international level, and year's matches, Kovacs placed medalist. DeCicco noted that Piper (30-5) and sophomore fencing teams will close out finished his second regular fourth overall. the key to an Irish champion­Lynn Kadri (38-8) will add
l 
~',.,. their respective seasons as season undefeated at 24-0, up­"Yehuda has been and con-ship could lie in the perfor­fresh talent to an already vet­
!. 
they travel to Northwestern ping his career record to 48-0. mance of the epee squad. eran team. University in Evanston, Ill., for Kirby as well had an outstand­lrisn ~tats ''Ted is improving with each "We could have had a better the NCAA Fencing Champion­ing season at 17-1, bringing his year," said DeCicco. "I believe season,'' said Auriol despite a 
Men's Foil

ships, to be held from March two-year total to 42-2. This will that if he wants it badly regular season record of 18-1
Fencer W-L Pet.

30 to April 4. be Kirby's first trip to the Yehuda Kovacs*** 31-1 969 enough, he will be a highly with but one loss at the hands This will mark the fifth year NCAA's, and Nowosielski's Derek Holeman 25-1 .962 competitive force at the of Ohio State. "But we are 
Men's Sabre

in a row for which the men's second. NCAA's this year. Todd Griffee going to the NCAA's with a
Leszek Nowosielski* 24-0 1.000

squads have qualified a maxi­"David has performed up to David Kirby 17-1 .944 could be the catalyst for this very strong team. People will mum field of six fencers, two my highest expectations this Men's Epee year's team. If he performs not be surprised if we win the 
Ted Fay* 33-2 943

in each weapon. In his twenty­season," said DeCicco. "He like he came around at last title or end up in the top three." 
Todd Griffee·· 39-8 .830

fifth season as head coach, Mi­has developed into a major year's NCAA's, we could win Most indications are that the
Women's Foil chael DeCicco has compiled a force on the sabre squad and Janice Hynes* 30-6 .833 the whole thing." men's team from Columbia Heidi Piper 30-5 .857
won-lost record of 547-41, in­should prove to be a formidable have the edge to emerge vic­
Kristin Kralicek** 27-6 .818

cluding a perfect 21-0 mark this asset to our team at the Head women's coach Yves torious once again and defend
Lynn Kadri 38-8 .826 year. NCAA's. But I see Leszek as Brenda Leiser 33-10 .767 Auriol has already garnered a their title. Other contenders in­
* denotes appearances in NCAA Champion­

It could be the year that the the definite favorite entering national championship and two clude the Irish, Penn, and Penn 
ships

Irish men put it all together this year's competition. He is second place finishes in his first State. However, a recent dis­after finishing second last expected to win top honors at tinues to be a key element of three years. This year's team pute between Penn sabremenI year. They boast experience, the tournament.'' this team," stated DeCicco. "I is in excellent position to once Chris Owen and his head coach 
I 
talent and a team which has The newest force on the Irish am hoping that this year not again make a run at the title. has led Owen to withdraw, and l been eagerly anticipating this appeared this season as Derek only will he repeat as an All­Leading the way for the wo­will severely · affects that weekend. Holeman. The junior foilist out American but take first place men will be senior captain team's chances. "I am extremely pleased of Beaverton, Ore., will make in the overall competition. I Janice Hynes (30-6). After a with the caliber of fencers who his first showing at the tourna­believe he has the talent to year's absence, Hynes has For the women's foil compe­make up the team for this ment after a solid 25-1 record. compete with the best that the returned to post impressive tition, both Columbia-Barnardl year's NCAA's," said DeCicco. "Derek has been primed all other schools have to offer.'' victories including wins over and the Irish are heavy J "We should be definite con­season for this competition," defending national champions favorites. Last year's winners, ' ' tenders at Northwestern." said DeCicco. "He has worked In the epee competition, the Wayne State. Competing with Wayne State, should also make 
The sabre team will be extremely hard and should put Irish will send two seniors in Hynes will be seniors Kristin a run at the title along with represented by the sophomore on quite a show." team captain Ted Fay (33-2) Kralicek (27-6) and Brenda Penn. 
~ Season Resu Its 
! 
Men's Fencing (21-Q) (Bouts: 481-86) 
i 
NO Opponent 25 Chicago 2 26 Lawrence 1 
! 
22 Wisconsin 5 27 Minnesota 0 22 Michigan-Dearborn 5 19 Wayne State 8 21 Detroit 6 27 Tri-State 0 19 Oakland 8 25 Eastern Michigan 2 23 Michigan 4 22 Cleveland State 5 25 Northwestern 2 21 Ohio State 6 24 Case Western Reserve 3 27 Vanderbilt 0 21 Cal State-Long Beach 6 19 Wayne State 8 22 Michigan State 5 20 Illinois 7 24 Purdue 3 
Women's Fencing (18-1) 
(Bouts: 253-51) NO Opponent 13 Lawrence 3 12 Wisconsin 4 16 Minnesota 0 10 Michigan-Dearborn 0 9 Wayne State 7 14 Detroit 2 
.. : 
15 Tri-State 15 Oakland 1 14 Eastern Michigan 2 12 Michigan 4 16 Cleveland State 0 13 Northwestern 3 
7 Ohio State 9 
16 Case Western Reserve 0 16 Vanderbilt 0 12 Cal State-Long Beach 4 10 Wayne State 6 t2 Eastern Michigan 4 15 Purdue 1 
Irish History 
Top Team Finishes In NCAA's 
Women's Fencing 1st·1987. 2nd ·1986, 88. 6th -1982. 9th -1985. 12th -1983. 
Men's Fencing 
1st -1977, 78, 86. 
2nd -1979, 83, 85, 88. 
3rd -1975, 76, 84. 
4th -1987. 
5th -1964, 81. 
6th ·1950, 58, 67, 68, 69, 71. 
7th -1953, 55, 60, 82 
8th -1954, 59, 70, 72, 80. 
9th -1957. 
10th -1951, 63. 
Hynes back in form 
Junior captain sets sight on medal 
By CHRIS FILLIO more mature after taking a Sports Writer year off from competition. 
Without a doubt she's strong 

It has been over a year since and has the proper material to Janice Hynes has competed in be a champion, if she fences up an NCAA competition of this to her potential." caliber. Yet for all that time After sitting out during her away from the sport, she has junior year, the senior from emerged in prime form. Peabody, Mass., posted an ex­
"That was the year that I got cellent 30-6 season mark. everything together,'' said Despite playing second­Hynes. "Right now I'd have to fiddle to four time All Ameri­say that I'm at the top of my can Molly Sullivan, Hynes ap­game. This is the best I've ever pears poised and ready to make felt about fencing." some waves of her own. But 
Head women's coach Yves now she finds herself in the Auriol has already guided the driver's seat of a team which Irish to a 77-3 record and one has been worrying many a co­National Championship in his ach from other championship first four seasons at Notre contenders. Dame. Right now, he likes the "I have great faith in Janice women's. chances with Hynes that she can lead the team," at the forefront. said Auriol. "She cares a great 
"Janice has a realistic deal about everyone on the chance to win a medal this year," said Auriol. "She's see Hynes, page 14 
NoWosielski leads with perfect record 
By CHRIS FILLIO looking at his unprecedented Sports Writer 48-0 regular season record over 
the two years. But when con­

In over fifty years of Irish sidering Nowosielski's back­fencing, no individual has ground, it is obvious to see that matched the career start of he is a breed apart. sophomore Leszek The first sabre All-American Nowosielski. In light of the as a freshman for the Irish numerous championships, All since Mike Sullivan in 1976. Americans, and uther honors Fourth at the NCAAs last year, which have been bestowed on first at the Great Lakes Mid­the Irish, that's saying quite a west Regionals. The third­bit. ranked sabreman in Canada. 
Indeed, it's hard to believe Three-time World Junior that the Ottawa, Canada, na­tive is only a sophomore when see Fencer, page 17 


Thursday, March 30, 1989 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
12:15 p.m. Gala-Kellogg Institute lecture "Brazil as a Rela­tional Study: Some Anthropological Considerations," by Prof. Roberto DaMatta, Room 131 Decio. 
4 p.m. ROTC and Peace Studies lecture "Ethical Dilemmas and the Military in the 1990s," by Col. Malham Wakin, U.S.A.F., Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
4 p.m. Psychology lecture "The Core of the Network as the Focus of lntervetion," by Carolyn Attneave, University of Washington, Haggar Hall Auditorium. 
4:30 p.m. Accounting lecture "GovernmenMndustry Business Practices, Budgets & Controls," by Alfredo Campo, Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. 
7 p.m. SMC Justice Education lecture "Diversity Among . People," Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. 
7:30 p.m. Holy Cross Justice and Peace lecture "Thoughts & Reflections of Easter Themes from the Book of Acts," by Rev. Daniel Berrigan, Moreau Seminary. 
8 p.m. AT&T Visiting Scholar series "The Evolution of the Human Psyche," by Richard Alexander, University of Mic­higan, Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's 
Knockwurst  Turkey Cutlet with Gravy 
BBQ Spare Ribs  Pork Sukiyaki  
Beef Stew  Manicotti  
Fettucini Alfredo  Deli Bar  

COMICS 
Bloom County 

Jerks 

'-.-;Hf!'; WE LAST SAW KEV, 
FIRST. TH£ USUAL ME THlJbs rlE W"'~ IN !>110(1( AT SE£1NG 
WERE U5£() TO R.EVIVE Hl11 ••• 
til~ 1\uO,..,I'lA TE GOB AS THE 
[!H TU: 80"\NY... 
.SC.ALbiNC. jJl1) HOT WATER 
~~~~..~ 
I tl •JII 
~ 

'\.' 
page 19
The Observer 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Moslem 54 Long-finned tuna reltgious leader 
58 "Maria--,"

1 Hermit. e.g 
30 Orwell's "-40's pop hit s Michaelmas Farm" 62 What George's

daisy 

34 Zeta follower ridtng master 10 --canto 
35 Ticks off told him in N.H.?, 13 Rochester's. love 37 Anklebones 65 Formerly, formerly
141sabel. e.g. 38 Wedding mishap at 66 More feeble 
15 Actor Rtohard Yosemite?
from 67 A party to 
42 Manolete'sPhtladelphia 68 Marshal ofadversary

16 Frustrating France: 1804-15
43 Weasel's kinscene fora 69 Streamlined44 Vietnamese New pyromantac in 10 Zola heroine 

Ariz.? Year 45 Mutations
19 To eat. in Er!urt 
48 "Mens sana in 
DOWN

20 Punctures ,, 
corpore-­21 Fruit drinks 1 Edible 
49 Articles mushroom

24 Naturalist so Baseball's Fossey Connie 2 These may be seeded
25 USA award 52 Level 
3 Letters' partner 4 Ky. college ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE s Sound from 
Sandy 6 Ktnd of whale 1 Bound 22 Actor Jannings 36 Shankar's 55 Scholar's 
acquisitiona "Our revels now instrument

23 Round of fire are-" Shak 39 Torpid · 56 Body or work
25 Obligations preceder9 Basketry fiber 40 Yakutsk's river 26 Rope sling for 57 Salinger girl 10 Mangel-wurzel cargo 41 Like 15 Down 59 Sicilian menace11 Gaelic 27 "Five Graves to 46 Dtplomat's asset 
12 "~ Make . 60 Koestler's
--," 1943 film 
47 Glowers "Darkness atLove," Monroe 29 Track even:s " 
film 51 S. African native 31 Valletta is its village· 61 Joyce's -­
15 Italian flavored capital Livia Plurabelle 

ice 53 British 32 Fred or Steve Museum's-­63 Haw's
17 Jawaharlal's marbles companion

daughter 33 Where knights tilted 54 Egyptian deity 64 Bother 
Berke Breathed 




FlNALL't, KE'V RE!>PONDE:D WHEN &08 .....,AVEO ~IS OLD THEN, THE VOI<.E OF REASON 

'r/A5 U~ED, WITt-\ NO ~E'.SULT5. SNEAKERS UNb€1t KEV'~ K£V, THERE' REALLY !} AN 
NO!.E. ••• r----_:...;,_~--1 
EA5TO 8lJNNY BUr H€''5 50 6U!.Y HE HAS HELPERS 
AT ALL f~E MALLS IN THE WO~Lll ••• 

"Stop! Stop! What's that sound? What's that sound?" 
American Values IAmerican Film 
fri, march 31 sat, april 1 man, april 3 
Discussion with Panel Discussion with 

Martin Gene 
~a~=~:~:i~~=~=~~~~w~~=~=~~~~:\f~ 
u:O-~K:t:Ol-:·:-:-:·
.... · ....·~... · ..·......·.·.·.· 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Sheen Siskel · 
Tues, April 4 Thurs, April 6 
Tickets for both discussions available at LaFortune Info Desk 
all events at Cushing Auditorium 
sponsored by College of Business Administration, Departments of English,American Studies, Student ~ Sociology,Comm.&Theater,Marketing, Educational Media 
Government ~ 





Sports

page 20 Thursday, March 30, 1989 
Irish baseball gets 7-1 home triumph over Chicago State 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO form, the pitching saved the mound," said Chicago State co­Sports Writer Irish on Wednesday when ach Kevin McCray. "He's junior Brian Piotrowicz went pretty crafty, and I can't take 
The Notre Dame baseball eight innings to improve his anything away from him." team opened its home season record to 3-2. The Irish had an errorless at Jake Kline Field to the tune The North Liberty, Ind., na­game defensively, highlighted of a 7-1 victory over Chicago tive and South Bend Washing­by senior shortstop Pat State behind pitcher Brian ton High graduate improved Pesavento's seven assists and Piotrowicz's 10 strikeouts and his team-leading earned run two putouts. James Sass's four hits. average to 1.91. Outfielder James Sass again 
· Despite the seven runs on 14 "I kept inside on my fastball provided Notre Dame's offen­hits that the 13-5 Irish com­and was going with a changeup sive punch. Sass went 4-for-5 on piled, Head Coach Pat Murphy and a slider," said Piotrowicz. the day with three RBI. He was not impressed with the of­"My slider was real sharp, and signed home Mike Coss and Pat fensive output in a game where that was pretty much my Pesavento in the third inning the Irish scored only four runs strikeout pitch the whole day. to put Notre Dame up 2-1, and in the first seven innings. The key was getting ahead in the Irish led the rest of the way. 

"It wasn't a real impressive the count and keeping in the in­Sass picked up his third RBI victory by any stretch of the side oart of the plate." of the day when he singled to imagination," said the second­Chicago State's hitters some­center in the eighth inning, year coach, "but a lot of credit times were forced to swing at scoring Pesavento from second has to go to our pitching and bad pitches because of base. 
defense.'' Piotrowicz's effective pitching In the process, Sass raised 
The Observer I E.G. Bailey
Pitching and defense seem to selection. his season average to .390. The 
"We thought we could have The Notre Dame baseball team raised its record to 13-5 Wednesday 
be the mainstays for this Irish Louisville, Ky., resident leads 
team that sometimes lacks of­done a little better job, but that with a 7-1 victory over Chicago State at Jake Kline Field. Pitcher fensive firepower. True to was a good pitcher on the see Sass, page 12 Brian Piotrowicz led the way with 10 strikeouts for the Irish. 
NO lacrosse takes a step toward an NCAA bid 
By PETE LaFLEUR is the character of the "What it comes down to is said senior tri-captain John faceoffs when we needed them. Sports Writer players,'' Irish head coach that (the win) doesn't meaq we Olmstead. But you really can't single out Kevin Corrigan said. "It says "I don't think we've ever ac­anyone because everyone con­
} ) The Notre Dame lacrosse a lot to come from 0-3 to this 
complished the first step before tributed. team took a big first step (the Air Force win). They've and now we know we can get "That's the kind of contribu­towards an NCAA tournament worked hard and now it's start­the bid. This win is by far one tion we need. We don't need one bid with a spirited 10-7 victory ing to pay off for them." of the biggest games ever for guy scoring eight goals, but we over Air Force at Edward W. The Irish outscored the Fal­the program." do need 10 guys out there Moose Krause Stadium Wed­cons 5-1 in the fourth quarter Olmstead led the Irish with playing well at all times," he nesday. to secure the win. Air Force at­four goals and an assist while continued. The Irish (3-3) hit the low tempted only 13 shots in the ... junior midfielder Mike Quigley Air Force coach Scott Petoso point of their season when they game as Notre Dame combined added a goal and three assists. cited Irish intensity and pres­lost their first three games. But a patient offense with consis­But according to Olmstead, the sure as the key differences be­they have bounced back with tent ball control and a harass­-play of many role players was tween this year's squad and the three straight wins, and yester­ing defense to frusrate the Fal­
the key to the win. Notre Dame team that Air day's win against last season's cons. "What won it for us was that Force beat 14-8 in Colorado NCAA western representative Victories against Division I so many people did so many Springs last year. best symbolizes the quick turn­western teams Michigan State things for us today," Olmstead "The only thing that they did around the team has experi­and Ohio State are apparently said. differently this year was put
Mike Quigley

enced. "I told our kids from all that stand between the Irish "John Titterton did a great more pressure on us, and we the first week that the best and their first trip to the NCAA are automatically going to the job killing penalties and Scott thing this team has going for it tournament. NCAA's, but it is the first step," Musa came up with good see Quigley, page 14 
Observer predictors like Brewers, Mets, A's, S D AL East NL East AL West NL West 
It's the division on the decline. The There's no way the New'York Mets To repeat as a champion at any level Don't look now, but the National once dominant American League can defend their National League is considered one of the most difficult League West is quickly emergingEast is falling on hard times and the East title. The Mets just have too tasks in professional sports. But don't from the shadow of its eastern West is moving from the laughable much controversy surrounding them tell that to the Oakland Athletics. nemesis, and looks to. provide one of 
half to the feared half. and will not recover from last year's After winning the pennant last the closest pennant races in 1989. But somebody's got to win it. Either playoff collapse. season, the A's are the team to beat It is no mere coincidence that last that, or they'll be a three-way tie for Dream on. in the American League West this season's World Series champion (Losthe division title. The Mets are the standout team in spring. They have the nucleus back Angeles), Most Valuable Player (Kirk
The Milwaukee Brewers will either this lackluster field, the only World from a team that won the division by Gibson), Cy Young Award winner win the division of fall apart trying. Series contender in a division full of 13 games a year ago. (Orel Hershiser) and batting champIf the Brew Crew can stay off the dis­pretenders. It may not be as easy for Oakland (Tony Gwynn) all came from the abled list, you'll be seeing them in the Shea Stadium houses candidates for this season, as the West is challenging West. Five of its six teams finished 
American League Championship Se­most valuable player and rookie of the the East for American League above .500 in 1988, and five of the top ries. The Brewers are the only team year in Darryl Strawberry and Gregg supremacy. Many of the teams have seven exhibition records this season in this division that is on the way up. Jefferies. They form part of a potent revamped their lineups in hopes of belong to NL West teams. 
The Brewers' pitching is sound, lineup that includes Keith Hernandez, catching the A's. With the offseason acquisition of their 3.45 ERA was second only to Howard Johnson and Kevin Oakland might have a head start, Jack Clark from the Yankees and Oakland last season. If the starters McReynolds. Couple that with the but the loss of Jose Canseco could take Bruce Hurst from the Red Sox, San are even average, the Milwaukee bul-best pitching staff in baseball, and you some of the punch out of the l~neup. Diego finally has what it takes to win 

Theresa Steve 
Greg Frank Kelly Megargee Guffey Pastor f!) 
l ~­
Associate Assistant Assistant Sports Editor .,; ~' 
R~' ­
Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor 
,,:-_.;.:,., 
lpen will win pennant for them. Lef­have yourself a prohibitive divisional Canseco (42 home runs, 124 runs the division title. thanded closer Don Plesac can domi­favorite. batted in last year) is out three to four The addition of Clark, in particular,nate if he can stay • healthy, and The St. Louis Cardinals have made weeks with an injured left wrist. supplements an already potent Padre 
sinkerballer Chuck Crim will come in a habit this decade of doing well every Thanks to Canseco's injury, Felix lineup featuring outfielders Gwynn 
see AL Ea~, page 16 see NL East, page 16 see AL West, page 13 see NL West, page 13 







