
VOL. XXIII NO. 52 WEDNESDAY , NOVEMBER 15, 1989 
• •1,. .. 
~ ·; . . . -· THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

W. Germany offers E. Germany financial aid 
BERLIN (AP) --West Ger­many said Tuesday it was will­ing to givn East Germany mas­sive financial aid in the style of the postwar U.S. Marshall Plan, but demanded political and economic reforms the Commu­nists have so far rejected. 
East Germany's new premier said the Berlin Wall must re­main. to keep AIDS, crime and other Western problems out of his country. lie promised a coalition government but did not say whether the opposition could join it. 
After a week of dramatic de­velopments in East European countries. President Mikhail Gorbachev of the Soviet Union said in Moscow: 
"Thny have a common direc­tion, which fosters the building of a European home, for it makes the eountries closer, more open and creates new op­portunities for human contact and an equal exchange." 
The Liberal Democrats, an East German party that is allied with the Communists but shows signs of independence, saia pro-democracy groups should be invited in "round-table" talks about East Germany's future. 
Discussions this spring be­tween Polish authorities and Solidarity, which were given that name, led to a non-Com­munist government in Poland. 
Mayor Walter Momper of West Berlin said the sudden opening of East Germany's borders was creating traffic jams, currency problems and other economic difficulties the two governments must resolve. 
Economics Minister Helmut llaussmann of West Germany announced a six-point aid plan including investments, joint ventures and modernizing East Germany's dilapidated com­munications and transport sys-terns. 
Haussmann did not name a figure for the aid and said East Germany must achieve "thorough change" in its cen­trally directed economy. 
Reforms promised so far by Communist Party leader Egon Krenz, who took over last month from hard-liner Erich llonecker, have resulted in more questions than answers, llaussmann said in Bonn. 
He compared his proposal to the Marshall Plan devised by Secretary of State George Mar­shall, which provided more than $12 billion in American aid in 1948-51 to help Europe recover from the war. 
East German authorities have rejected the idea of adopting a complete free-market system and new Premier Hans Modrow, a leading reformer, says he wants "step by step" economic changes. 
Modrow appears to want a streamlining of the bureau­cracy, but has given no indica­tion he will urge sweeping changes such as those in Hun­gary and Poland. 
He was quoted Tuesday in the West Germany newspaper Bild as saying the Berlin Wall can remain open to travel, but will not come down. 
"In our country there is little criminal activity . . . cases of AIDS and drugs are virtually unknown," he was quoted as saying. "Our people are asking themselves why they shouldn't just leave that as it is." 
ADN, the official news agency, said the government might open a part of the wall near the Brandenburg Gate as yet another passage between East and West Berlin. The high­columned monument is near the wall in East Berlin and is 
see GERMANY I page 4 

Smith named SMC Student Affairs dean 
By JULIE RYAN 
News Writer 

Mary Ellen Smith, director of Student Activities at Saint Mary's College, has been named acting dean of Student Affairs for the remainder of the 1989­90 academic year. 
Smith. who came to Saint Mary's in 1986, will replace Sr. Karol Jackowski. She will be responsible for a variety of du­ties within the student life area, including the administration of the departments of Counseling and Career Development, Health Services, Residence Life 
and Housing, Student Activi-Three main goals need to be 
ties, Campus Ministry, and Ath­letics and Recreation. 
Handling the two positions is challenging, said Smith. "Student activities is part of student affairs, so I'm familiar with both of these areas," Smith said. 
In the interim, Smith intends to maintain authority in the two fields. ''I'm keeping Student Activities rolling in the dean's office, while maintaining Stu­dent Affairs," she said 
Mimi Tuohy, a 1989 graduate of Saint Mary's is assisting Smith till the end of the 1989­90 year. 
fulfilled by Smith from now till the end of the year: 
•The Wellness Program, the first of these goals, is a pro­gram Saint Mary's will use to improve personal health. It will cover the mental, emotional, spiritual, and physical aspects of the body. 
A grant given to Saint Mary's from the government will allow the college to establish Regina Hall's basement as the center for the Wellness Program. There will be a library, com­puter room, conference room, and aerobics room, as well as a 


Preparing for battle 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey Cavanaugh football player Roger Ptak stays dry as he walks to practice on Tuesday with coach Ken Cotter (left) and teammate Phil Malloy. Cavanaugh faces Alumni in the interhall football championship on Sunday. 
ND seeks women for new faculty 

By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 
Encouraging departments to seek out women when hir­ing new faculty is part of the mission of Affirmative Ac­tion at Notre Dame. 
The Academic Affirmative Action Committee is respon­sible for the "internally driven" program at Notre Dame, said Thomas Swartz, professor of economics, col­legiate fellow and chairper­son of the Committee. 
In the past Affirmative Ac­tion meant federal quotas, he said. Now, Affirmative Action is part of the "mission of the University." 
The Committee was reor­ganized this year in light of the changing nature of Af­firmative Action at the Uni­versity, said Swartz. He said that there is a parallel or­ganization for staff on this campus. 
"We wanted to establish the credibility of the Committee," he said. "We are no longer a committee that generates reports for 
{ ( ( .,;· ..: · · ·· ( i ( ( / ( ( / ( ( ( { 
•· ··• 
··o 
the outside." 
In light of the importance that the Administration placed on Affirmative Action, the Committee size was doubled, Swartz said. 
Presently there are two representatives from each college and three from the College of Arts and Letters on the Committee. 
The focus of the program is the teaching and research faculty, said Swartz. "When reporting our success or lack (thereoO in terms of faculty it is understood that we mean tenure-track fac­ulty," he said. 
He said that the Committee does examine the hiring of other faculty, the main con­cern is for the teaching faculty. 
The Committee is looking 
at ways to increase aware­ness among the departments 
as to the University com­mitment to Affirmative Ac­tion and try to elicit their support, Swartz said. 
The Committee hopes to examine the availability of women by discipline to see how Notre Dame's hiring ef­forts compare to total avail­able women, he said. 
The Committee members are appointed by the Provost in concurrence with the Uni­versity President, said Swartz. "It's a wonderful committee, just dynamite." 
"The real problem is rais­ing awareness," he said. "Folks are not ill-willed, but there is a lot of pressure from all areas." 
Each department has a Committee on Appointments and Promotions (CAP), said Swartz. He said that Affir­mative Action tries to ensure that CAPs consider the Uni­versity's commitment to Af­firmative Action when hir­ing. 
Swartz said that many 
see WOMEN 1page 4 

ND computing systems are under major improvements 


By SARAH VOIGT 
News Writer 
Donald Spicer, appointed a year and a half ago to lead the campaign to upgrade comput­ers at Notre Dame, is currently coordinating some drastic im­provements of the computing network on campus. 
These changes are part of an extensive $27.2 million dollar plan to upgrade academic and administrative computing. Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy announced this ambitious five-year plan last October. 
Spicer explained that since computing was not a top prior­ity to the University before his arrival, technology had fallen far behind. "We were not even on the map. The mainframe computer on campus was not even in the used computer books," said Spicer. 
In addition to outdated tech­nology and limited capabilities, the computing situation on campus before the campaign lacked coordination and com­munication between depart­ments. 
Spicer said, "The different departments would work to improve their computers on their own. Those without grants or influence were conse­quently left out." 
Spicer perceived his appoint­ment as "an opportunity to jump-start the computing pro­gram. I saw this as a chance to get in on the ground floor. Notre Dame had reached a plateau and the plan needed vi­tality. It can be very exciting." 
The University is not trying to invent new computing technol­ogy, said Spicer. Instead it hopes to put the current inno­vations to use as quickly as they become available. 
The theory behind this cam-
see COMPUTE I page 5 

INSIDE COLUMN 



College paper ad censoring is disturbing 

expire when it reached 200 years-of age? Last week, the National Organiza­tion of Wom(m (NOW) approached several 
college newspapers with an advertisement Chris Donnelly for a pro-abortion Editor-in-Chief rally in Washington,--------­D.C. 
The student papers at Georgetown and Marquette chose to run the ad, and were censored by their administrations for it. 
Georgetown's dean of students told the paper that it could not be printed if it con­tained the ad. The paper responded by not publishing last week. 
After much negative publicity and numer­ous meetings with Georgetown's adminis­tration, the paper will resume regular pub­lication next week. Georgetown's Media Board, Committee on Free Speech and Ex­pression and several campus editors will establish publications guidelines for the future. 
At Marquette, however, the news is not so good. Its student newspaper published the controversial ad last week. The paper's edi­tor-in-chief and advertising manager have since been suspended until semester's end, and the director of student media has been fired. 
One wonders why these Catholic universi­ties reacted so strongly to an ad. It was an advertisement, not an editorial, and the event was covered extensively by the media. 
These schools, like Notre Dame, believe outwardly, at least, in respecting the free­dom of the press. Their media guidelines, however, have a catch-all clause that says they will respect the freedom of the press, if the publication is consistent with the highest standards of journalism and the mission of the university. 
These institutions fail to realize that by forbidding students to disagree with the in­stitution's mission or beliefs they are cen­soring the publication. 
Would Georgetown or Marquette forbid its newspapers from covering the rally or from publishing pro-abortion opinion columns? I certainly hope not, but with this precedent and the current guidelines it is possible. 
It is understandable that a school would want its publications to act professionally, but why is it necessary that they conform to Catholic beliefs? 
Because a campus newspaper prints something does not mean that the institu­tion believes in it. In fact, these publications state that their views do not necessarily reflect those of the administration. 
Universities are places where ideas should be freely expressed and exchanged. Forbid­ding papers from reporting or advertising on views contrary to those of the institution defeats the purpose of education. 
The Observer was not approached by NOW with the ad but we would have run it if we were. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's Staff 

Production News Sports 
Chris Labaree Florentine Hoelker Greg Guffey Greg Tice John O'Brien 
VIewpoint 
Accent 

Kim Skiles Ad Design Paige A. Smoron 
Colleen Stepan Amy Eckert Barbara Bryn Val Paletta Alison Cocks 
Systems Meg Callahan 
Tim Quinn Kathleen O'Conner 
Tim Kiefer Laura Rossi 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WEATHER 

Yesterday's high: 59 Yesterday's low: 52 Nation's high: 9 0 (McAllen, Tex.) Nation's low: 6 (Gunnison, Colo.) 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, November 15. 
Forecast: Cooler today, high in the lower to middle 40s. 
Cloudy, windy and sharply colder Wednes­day night with light rain or snow developing early, lows in the lower 30s. Windy and very cold Thursday with an 80 per­cent chance of snow, temperatures steady 
around 30. 
Pressure
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
WORLD 
President Bush declared his confidence Tues­The Namibian black nationalist movement in day that "Europe will some day be whole and free," that fought South African rule for 23 years won a solid saluting a decision by Czechoslovakia to ease travel majority Tuesday in national elections but will have to restrictions as just one more sign. Bush said he was bargain with rival parties in drafting a new constitu­not concerned about the dizzying pace of change tion. The leftist South-West Africa People's Organiza­sweeping Eastern Europe. "I don't think it's moving tion won 384,567 votes, or 57 percent of 670,830 bal­
too fast and I don't know of anybody in my adminis­lots cast, according to results announced Tuesday. 
tration that feels that it's moving too fast." SWAPO's leaders had predicted their movement would easily wjn the two-thirds majority that would have en­abled it to single-handedly write the constitution. 
NATIONAL 
Dennis Britton, deputy managing editor with the A liquor distributor and Boston models arn using Los Angeles Times, Tuesday was named editor of the a shimmering gold mesh dress to get the well-heeled to Chicago Sun-Times, the city's second-largest newspa­give money to those who can barely afford their next per. Britton, 49, will join the Sun-Times on Dec. 4, meal. Wednesday's fashion show will benefit the Mas­Publisher Charles Price announced. He succeeds Ken­sachusetts Coalition for the Homeless, a statewide neth Towers, who was named to the newly created post group that does everything from lobby for the home­of vice president of reader relations on Aug. 30. less to refinish furniture for people moving out of 
shelters. 

Retail sales fell a full 1 percent in October, $26.4 million was the record price paid for driven down by a slumping auto market, and industrial Edouard Manet's "La Rue Mosnier aux Drapeaux" at production dropped 0. 7 percent in its steepest fall in an art auction Tuesday in New York. Among other more than three years, the government said Tuesday. paintings and prices, Vincent Van Gogh's oil painting But some analysts said the reports were not as pes­"Le Vieil If," or "The Old Yew Tree," sold for $20.35 simistic as they would appear. They noted that except million to an anonymous buyer, and Pablo Picasso's for autos, most other sales categories rose and that "Famille de l'arlequin," a representation of the Cirque the drop in industrial output was due largely to an air­Medrano acrobats that characterizes the artist's Rose craft strike and factory disruptions after the California period, sold for $15.4 million to a U.S. dealer. earthquake. 
INDIANA 
A man who was murdered at his Munster A Fort Wayne man was being held Tuesday fol­home was described as a shrewd and aggressive real lowing the shooting death of a 26-year-old man, au­estate professional by employees. Donald Levine "was thorities said. DeWayne Townsend was fatally shot good in his field and he was a respected Realtor," said about 9:45 p.m. Monday in front of the TNT Tap near Stan Epstein, a real estate broker with Levine's downtown Fort Wayne, police said. About 1 a.m. Tues­Chicago-based company Commercial Retail Specialists. day, Jimmie Davis Jr., 33, was brought to police head­Levine, 55, and his wife, Marsha, 53, were shot to quarters by relatives. He was charged with felony bat­death as they prepared to go to work Thursday morn­tery pending further investigation, and was being held ing. in the City-County Lockup in lieu of $10,000 bond. 
OF INTEREST 

The CILA meeting at scheduled for today Closings for November 14 1989 at Saint Mary's has been cancelled. Instead, CILA members are encouraged to see "Romero," and a panel discussion afterwards. Meet at the buses at 

Volume in shares
7 p.m. tonight. 

143.17 Million 
Fast for a World Harvest begins today at 
7:15 p.m. with a presentation by Elaine 

NYSE Index
DesRosiers on poverty and hunger in Central 
187.51 {70.71
America at Saint Mary's College Hegina Hall 

S&P Composite
Chapel. 

337.99 {71.56 Dow Jones Industrials 2,610.25 {716.8
NO Combo Jazz will give a free concert to­day at 8 p.m. in Washington Ilall. Precious Metals Gold {r $2.40 to $394.90 I oz. 
Silver {r 9¢ to $5.408 I oz.
Juniors interested in the Senior Formal Chair next year should apply at the Student Activ­

Source: AP 
ities Office. Applications are due by Nov. 27. 
MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC 

On November 15: 
e In 1966: The flight of Gem­ini 12 ended successfully as the capsule -carrying astronauts James Lovell and Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin Jr. -splashed down in 
the Atlantic. e In 1969: 250,000 protesters staged a peaceful dmnonstra­tion in Washington against the Vietnam War. e In 1982: Funeral services were held in Moscow's Hed Square for the late Soviet Pres­ident Leonid Brezhnev. e In 1984: Baby Fan, the month-old infant who had re­ceived a baboon's heart to re­place her own congenitally de­formed one, died at a California medical center. 

-~-----~­

page 3 



Bush criticizes El Salvador rebels for recent 'senseless bloodshed' 
WASHINGTON (APJ -Presi­dent Bush on Thursday criti­cized the leftist rebels of El Sal­vador for "senseless blood­shed" in the all-out offensive that has crippled the capital of the Central American nation. 
lin also renewed a r.harge that the leftist Sandinista gov­ernnu~nt of Nicaragua is con­tinuing to arm the Salvadoran guerrillas, the Faribundo Marti National Liberation Front. 
In remarks to ministers of tlw Organization of Amnrican StatPs nweting here, Bush said hP wanted to rPiay "how upsPt I am that at a time wlwn wn'rn all trying to build pearl' in Cen­tral AmPrir.a through diplo­matic nwans. tlw FMI.N in El Salvador. aidnd and abetted by Nicaragua and tlw Cuban gov­Prnment, has n~sorted to sPnse­lnss bloodslwd and gross viola­tions of all the agreements r.eadwd to ~ro~ote pear.n in CPntral Amenca. 
Bush made a pitch for the dnmor.rar.ies that are membPrs of the OAS to pressure Nicaragua to stop aiding the FMI.N. 
"As democrats, we ought to be supporting the concept of stopping these weapons going in there," he said. 
The rebels mounted their largest offensive of El Sal­vador's 10-year civil war Sat­urday night, with the death 
Notre Dame Student Government Intellectual Committee presents 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 15 8:00pm Montgomery Theatre at LaFortune Student Center "Islam :Religion and Social Force in an Age of Nation-States. "Lecture by Professor Patrick Gaffney, C.S.C, an associate professor ofAnthrotx>logy at Notre Dame. H~ specialties include Islamic society and social movements. 
AOWORKS 



UNIORS 
Come Join Your Friends This Wednesday Night, Nov. 15 For Dinner and Dancing at 
Center Street Blues Cafe 

r.ount so far at 466 people as las had liberated parts of eight residents were trapped by com­of the country's 14 provinces. bat and government aircraft "I am delighted with the new that struck at rebel positions. moves toward democracy in 
Eastern Europe," Bush said. 
Despite government denials, "Despite the excitement, we're rebels clearly held parts of not going to neglect this hemi­northern and eastern neighbor­sphere. We're building the hoods in San Salvador, and a world's first democratic hemi­rebel communique said guerril-sphere." 
U.S. House votes on new versions of abortion bills 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A House committee on Tuesday endorsed new versions of two vetoed spending bills that com­ply with President Bush's de­mand that they maintain a ban on most federally funded abor­tions, including cases of rape or incest. 
House Speaker Thomas Foley said it was time for abortion­rights activists to "face the fact" that Bush would prevail this year in the dispute. But House Democrats who support abortion rights said they may continue their fight. 
A group of four pro-choice Hepubliran House women. meanwhile, met with the presi­dent to express their concern over his position on the federal abortion issue. 
And on still another abortion fight, the House backed away from risking a third Bush veto on a foreign aid bill that in­eludes $15 million for the U.N. Population Fund. The bill would reverse a five-year ban on U.S. aid to that agency, which pro­motes Third World family planning and birth control. 
Bush has threatened to veto the bill because of a provision fought by abortion opponents. They charged that because the agency operates in China, which has a one-child-per-family pol­icy, the money would indirectly support forced abortions there -despite a stipulation in the bill that the U.S. money not be used in China. 
The House voted against a move by anti-abortion forces to take out the population fund money, but then voted 219-203 to accept an amendment that allows Bush to block the money if he concludes it would be used for coerced abortions. 
The House Appropriations Committee voted unanimously and without debate to send to the floor a revised version of the $157 billion bill for fiscal 1990 appropriations for labor, education and health programs. Bush vetoed the bill last month because of a provision that would permit greater use of federal money for abortions for poor women, allowing them for victims of rape or incest. 
The panel also approved a re­vised bill appropriating $558 million for the District of Columbia government. Bush ve­toed that measure last month, 
objecting to provisions that 
would have allowed the D.C. 
government to use its own 
money to finance abortions for 
poor women. 
The House approved the 
larger spending bill last month 
after voting for the first time in 
a decade to broaden the prohi­
bitions on abortion financing. 
But the House failed by 51 
votes to override Bush's veto. 
"Without the votes to over­
turn that veto, we have to face 
the fact that there's going to be 
a denial of funds," Foley told 
reporters Tuesday, adding that 
pro-choice forces could try 
again next year. 
"The president has to take 
responsibilty for that decision," 
he said. 
Rep. Les AuCoin. D-Ore., a 
j
leader of the House abortion­
~
rights forces and a member of 
l
the appropriations committee, 
said it would have been futile 
for his side to try to amend the J 
bill in the committee. 
He said abortion opponents 
may easily thwart floor 
I
amendments using parliamen­
tary means as well. But he said 
abortion-rights forces in the 
Senate, who have a larger ma­
jority in that chamber, could 
force the debate to continue by 
voting again to permit financ­
ing in eases of rape or incest ­
an outcome that could for a 
second time send the bill to a 
House-Senate conference 
committee to work out differ­
ences. 
"That's where the end game 
is going to be fought -in the 
conference," AuCoin said. 
The abortion dispute is caught up in Congress' hurry to adjourn for the year, as well as concerns by some Republicans that anti-abortion positions hurt their candidates in last week's elections and could hurt them further in 1990. 
"The temperature is going to build, and we'll see how every­one feels when the temperature rises even further," AuCoin said. 
1 
1 
"I just have a feeling in my I bones that a lot of people who have been opposed to our pro­choice position are very eager to find a way to now support the victims of rape and incest, and we intend before it's all over to give them a chance," he said. 
l
3 smart ways to help pay for college 
Here's how the Army Reserve can help you pay for college. 
If qualified, the Montgomery Gl Bill can provide you with up to $5,040 for current college expenses. 
If you obtain a qualifying student loan, you can get it paid off at the rate of 15% per year, or $500, whichever is greater-up to a maximum of $10,000 for many specialties. Selecting certain specialty training can result in a $20,000 maximum. 
And here's how you can make even more part-time money while in college. Take Basic Training one summer. The next summer, complete skill training at an Army School. You'll earn over $1 ,250 for Basic and even more for skill training. Then you'll train with your Army Reserve unit near college, usually one weekend a month plus two weeks a year. You'll earn over $85 a weekend to start. 
Think about it. Then think about us. 
Then call us today . 
SGT Larry Holloway 
0
$3.00 Cover at the Door • 0 Featuring A Local Reggae Band 
Army Recruiting Station 
•• 0 
125 S. Hill Street, South Bend 
234-4187
BUS WILL LEAVE MAIN CIRCLE AT 7 P.M. 0 
AND RETURN AT lOP.M. 0 THE DEVASTATORS 
0 
Be All You Can Be. 
0 
ARMY RESERVE 

----------~-----------~ ---­



Women 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame students come 
from "narrow backgrounds" 
and need a faeulty that can of­
fer them a broader array of 
experienees. 
In the 1990's there will be a 
shortage of teachers; the de­
mand for eoll1~ge professors 
will exceed the supply, he said. 
"It mandates that we do our 
best today as the competition 
for women will become 
tougher." 
If students are ·unhappy 
about the number of female 
faculty members in their de­
partment, Swartz said that 
they should speak to the Chair. 
"Students do have a say." 
In regards to the Faculty Se­
nate Committee on the Status 
of Women report Swartz said, 
"It was one of the best I've 
heard at the University." lie said that it was well prepared and prnsented. 
In addition to Affirmative Ae­tion and the quality of life for women, the Committee on the Status of Women report men­tioned the Gender Studies Pro­gram as an area of eoneern. 
Specifically, the report men­tions University support for the Gender Studies Program; fos­tering research on women; in­corporating Gender Studies ap­proaehes into the curriculum; and ongoing development of li­brary resources in Gender Studies. 
Kathleen Hiddick. associate professor of history and co­chair of the Committee on the Status of Women, said "We need a stronger funded Gender Studies program." 
The Gender Studies Program was eonceived live years ago by Joan Aldous, William H. Kenan, 

Mailmen honor Bush 
AP Photo President Bush is presented a letter carrier's bag from Postmaster General Anthony Frank Monday in Washington as the President attended the opening of the 20th Congress of the Universal Postal Union. 
.Jr., professor of sociology, So­
nia Gernes, associate professor 
of English, and Sister Regina 
Coli, professional specialist and 
director of field education in 
theology, said Charlene Aval­
lone, assistant professor of 
English. 
This is the program's third 
semester. said Avallone._ The 
first offerings were in the fall 
of 1988. 
All of the program's funding is from a non-University grant, she said. Kate Halischak serves as the program's executive of­ficer. 
When centers start up they must be self-supportive, ac­cording to Provost Timothy O'Meara. Once a center is bet­ter integrated it can be eligible for the budget process, he said. 
Part of the program is a one credit, three semester collo­quium designed around the idea of an informal faculty/student exchange, Avallone said. 
She said that faculty mem­bers are not paid for their role in the colloquium. This can be problematic for some faculty members, said Avallone. 
Hoth males and females par­ticipate in the Gender Studies dasses, according to Avallone. "The faculty is excited about teaching." 
The first graduating class who had a concentration in the Gender Studies program did very well in regards to admis­sion to graduate programs, she said. 
The nature of the material demands that the program be interdisciplinary, said Avallone. "(One can use) gender-analysis to discuss any material." 
She said that the program needs more senior faculty members involved in teaehing the courses. "The program 
The Observer 
tends to be staffed by junior 
faculty." 
With financial support, inter­
ested faculty could be 
"retrained" in Gender Studies, 
according to Avallone. There's 
a problem when a senior fac­
ulty member has a desire to 
teach a Gender Studies course, 
but there's no funding to fur­
ther their education. 
As for possible agenda items, Avallone said the Gender Stud­ies program could re-examine the curriculum to see how women are represented in the classes. The program could ad­vise the committees that are re­sponsible for courses on how to make classes more gender inclusive. 
The program could also sup­port workshops for the faculty to inform them of new gender issues, said Avallone. 
In addition, "We could also monitor University conferences to see if they include scholar­ship by women," she said. 
She said that there is no funding for Gender Studies guest speakers. Funds for lec­tures are granted by the AT&T corporation. 
For students the program could "make sure that both un­dergraduate and graduate scholarships are getting in the hands of women," said Aval­lone. 
Margaret Porter, associate librarian, has been working on library resources in Gender Studies, Avallone said. 
Avallone said there are some sexist attitudes at Notre Dame that devalue the Gender Studies Program. In some cases at the University "there is a lack of responsiveness to women's concerns," she said. 
"We could certainly use more funding and support (for the program)," said Avallone. 
Wednesday, November 15, 1989 
AP Photo 
Hans Modrow poses in front of the East German official seal in the Volkskammer parliament building in East Berlin, Monday evening, after he was elected as the new East German prime minister. _ 

Germany 
continued from page1 
among the city's best-known symbols. 
Before East Germany op!'ned its borders Thursday, the gate had been a major rallying point for demonstrators s1wking freedom to travel to tlw West. llundreds of West Berliners gathered them Ttwsday in hopes a hole would be opened. 
A leader of New Forum, East Germany's main opposition group, said it could work with a revamped Communist Party but naming Modrow prPmiPr was not enough. 
"Then~ are still too many people in top positions with whom dialogue is not possibiP," Juergen Tallig, spokesman for the group in Leipzig, said in a West German radio int.-rview. 
More change could occur at a speeial party congn~ss in East Berlin on I>er. 15-17. The congress, which ran change tlw entire leadership, set policy and alter party statutes, was caiiPd late Monday by tlw party CPn­tral Committee. 
THE· EXTRA 0 R DIN A R Y • F L 0 R A L· C 0. 
Fresh Flowers 
Blooming&. 
Adivision of Green Plants 
Michael Angelo Gifts Bemacchi Corp. 

Balloons 
Order Your Holiday Dance Flowers Here! 
10°/o Discount with Student ID 
256-7277ALLMAJOR 
• 
CREDIT CARDS ACCEPTED 

JlM''J.A,~,.., ___i 
703 West Edison Rd., Mishawaka (1 block West of Grape Rd.) Hours: Mon. -Fri. 9 to 6, Sat. 9 to 5 
WE DELIVER DAILY 
Pro-democracy advocatl~s have held huge dmnonstrations demanding an end for tlw 40­year Communist monopoly on power. Although Modrow did not indicate wlwtlwr tlw oppo­sition would be allowed in his coalition, hP pledged to SPPk mom coopPration with tlw l'ou r small parties allied with the Communists. 
Guenter Srhabowski, one of tlw most promitwnt Politburo members and a IPading rt>­former, resigned as party chief for East BPrlin, ADN said, and was replarPd by llans AlbrPrht. 
Schabowski had indicatPd earlier lw might surrPndPr tlw post becausP of a lwavy work­load. liP still is tlw party pro­paganda chiP!' and political an­alysts bPiievP lw may get an im­portant job in Modrow's cabi­
JWt. 
GuPntlwr MaiPtHla, tlw JH'W, non-Communist SJH'akPr of Parlianwnt, said lw would SPPk to altPr tlw first articiP of tlw constitution. which dPiinPs tlw Communist Party's IPading rolP in soriPty. Tlw party has usPd tlw provision to dPfl'tHI its power monopoly. 

Wednesday, November 15, 1989 The Observer 

Smith 
continued from page 1 
calendar of events, Smith said. 
•Review, 
restructure, and rewrite, if needed, the judicial system of Saint Mary's. 

•Begin 
leadership workshops next fall that will be attended by student leaders of Saint Mary's. The leaders will come from different activities in the college, inducting government, athletics. ministry as well as dub prnsidents. 


Search for a full-time dean will begin in January of 1990. Students will be actively in­volwd in the selection process because there is a great deal of intr~raction between the dean of Student Affairs and the stu­dents, said Brett McLaughlin, director of Public Relations for the College. 
Compute 
continued from page 1 
paign to upgrade computing on campus is that the communica­tion of information through modern computers is an essen­tial part of education today. 
Spicer elaborated, "We are trying to get a good, solid, well­supported computing environ­ment where those who need to communicate have the modern tools to do it. That is what modern education is all about." 
According to Spicer, this plan is probably the most expensive single endeavor that the Uni­versity has undertaken with its own funds. Private donors do not usually find it attractive to give funds for new computer systems, Spicer said. 
"Notre Dame 'bit the bullet' and said that if it was going to be a national teaching and re­search university it would need the tools-and that means computers," Spicer stated. 
Many peer institutions have been integrating computers into their curriculums for years. Spicer was previously the Special Assistant to the Dean of Computing at Dart­mouth College. 
Spicer said that Dartmouth has been significantly using computers in support of under­graduate education for twenty five years. He also mentioned Carnegie-Mellon University as a school that was on the fore­front of modern computing technology. 
"At Dartmouth the direction was clear. The entire campus had already been networked so that all students and faculty could be hooked into the main­frame," said Spicer. 
Spicer compared his job to "a balancing act." He explained, "I have to balance available re­sources." 
The Ernest & Julio Gallo Winery 
Invites any students interested in our 
SALES MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
To attend a career and industry presentation 
DATE:  Thursday November 16, 1989  
TIME:  7:00 pm  
PLACE:  Notre Dame Room in LaFortune  

E & J Gallo Winery Management Representatives will present a brief review of the wine industry and discuss career opportunities in this dynamic growth industry. 
Resumes are encouraged Questions are welcomed Refreshments will be served 
Uncork Your Potential! 

page 5 
SUB sponsors forum on gender problems 
By PATRICK HEALY campus recently, Rakow said 
News Writer this was due to all crimes, re­
gardless of seriousness, being 
"Family Issues Week" reported to the public this year. continued last night with an He noted that this has resulted Student Union Board-spon-in more crimes being solved. sored forum on "Gender Prob-Rakow also noted that crimes lems and Stereotypes on Notre are often overblown because Dame and Saint Mary's Cam-such descriptions as "sex puses." offenses" covers numerous 
The forum, consisting of a acts, such as phone calls and six-member panel, SUB host sexual harassment. Rakow also Tony Lang, and a small but called the rumor mill at Notre participatory audience, Dame and Saint Mary's stressed that these problems "unbelievable" and also poten­will lessen only when women tially as damaging as an actual are given more respect by men incident. and by themselves, people stop Sexist language was also using discriminatory or sexist addressed, with Kourany stat­language and people rethink ing that a person's language their attitudes towards people reflected their thinking and will unlike themselves. be reflected in their actions. 
The forum discussed such She complained of exclusive problems as stereotypes of language such as "mankind", men, women and minorities, se-"a man's size job", and the curity on campus, sexist Ian-overall reference of humans in guage, and discriminatiOn. _A.-history as "man." topic debatea eaflyon'in the Suzanne Marilley, assistant lecture was whether or not professor of government, noted such forums are productive. that Notre Dame and Saint 
The group said that public Mary's students are often re­discussions "help", but aren't ferred to as "boys and girls" having much impact. The lack and "kids" by administration of attendance reinforced this and faculty. point, and was noted a number A topic she initiated was why of times. women here were often re-
A key point of the forum was ferred to as girls, while men that Notre Dame does not have were called men. gender problems and Rita Donley, staff psychol­stereotypes because it is a mi-ogist for the University Coun­crocosm of society, but rather, seling Center, concurred by as forum host Tony Lang saying students were often sur­noted, that attitudes prevalent prised when she addressed fe­at Notre Dame were male students as women. Nora "exacerbating" these problems. Melchert, a member of the Ju-
Discussing stereotypes, the nior Board at Saint Mary's, panel lamented over men being noted that this was due to the portrayed as the dominant sex common reference of males and while women were seen as females at Notre Dame as passive and weak. "girls and guys". 
Janet Kourany, associate professor of Philosophy and the A number of people at the Gender Studies Program, noted forum could cite some form of that stereotypes are acting discrimination in the class­negatively both ways on cam­room, some blunt and others pus. She said that while a more subtle. It was noted that woman walking alone on cam­reverse discrimination may oc­pus feels threatened by a man cur in the class if their is an approaching, the man feels re­imbalance in ratio and the in­sentful of her fear. structor gives too much atten­
Director of Security Rex tion to the minority. Rakow reinforced that by stat­The forum concluded on the ing that their was an unfortu­topic of awareness of these nate stereotype against men, problems. The group agreed that they are looked at more that there was heightened suspiciously by security than awareness, except on the part would be a woman. of groups not usually discrimi­
When asked why there nated against, notably hetero­seemed to be more crimes on sexual white males. 
Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 for details. 
SECURITY BEAT 
FRIDAY, NOV.10, 1989 
1:23 a.m. Notre Dame Police cited a Mishawaka man for speeding and Driv· mg While Intoxicated on Juniper Road. The defendant was arrested and trans­ported to St. Joseph Co. Jail. 
4:35p.m. A Stanford Hall resident re­ported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from the hallway outside his room sometime between 8·1 0 a.m. His loss is estimated at $300. 
10:30 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a resident of Michigan for exceeding the posted speed limit. The defendant had been travelling 44 mph in a 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
10:59 p.m. The Siegfried Hall Monitor reported that the phone outside the hall had been ripped off the wall and stolen. 
SATURDAY, NOV. 11 
11 :20 a.m. A number of persons were stopped and their merchandise confis­cated by Notre Dame Security when the individuals attempted to sell unlicensed Notre Dame merchandise. 
4:15p.m. A resident of Ohio reported that his car had been vandalized while parked in Orange Field. The unknown vandal(s) had broken a side mirror on the car. 
8:10 p.m. Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a two vehicle acci­dent on Douglas Road. No injuries were reported. 
8:30 p.m. A number of students re­ported that their vehicles had been van­dalized by unknown person(s) during the ND-SMU game. 
During the ND-SMU game, 18 people were ejected from the stadium for intoxi­cation or possession of alcoholic bever­ages. 
In addition, two injuries were reported as a result of students throwing objects in the stands. One woman had her con­tact smashed when she was hit in the eye with a plastic cup. Also, a small child was hit in the head with an orange. 
SUNDAY, NOV. 12 
9:21 a.m. Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a two vehicle acci­dent of a two vehicle accident on Dou­glas Road. No injuries were reported. 
4:15p.m. Notre Dame Police received a report of vandalism to the Cedar Grove Cemetery. Numerous tombstones were toppled and damaged. 
MONDAY, NOV. 13 
3 a.m. Notre Dame Police responded to the report of a two vehicle accident in the B-2 parking lot. No injuries were re­ported. 

Wednesday, November 15, 1989
The Observer 

Dart courses closed on Nov. 14 
Editor's note: The Ob­server publishes only those courses which have closed the day previous to publica­tion. This is not a complete 
list.  
0021  0032  0091  
0023  0037  0092  
0024  0051  0100  
0025  0055  0102  
0027  0056  0129  
0028  0057  0131  
0029  0083  0144  


0156  0752  1275  1624  2604  3269  5107  5282  5351  5505  
0166  0766  1276  1822  2645  3270  5112  5284  5375  5549  
0170  0805  1284  1826  2668  3273  5141  5298  [)407  5556  
0229  0891  1293  1834  2669  3274  51.42  5299  5410  
0233  0989  1296  1972  2790  :no4  5143  5:{01  5411  
0380  0990  1297  2016  2797  :n1o  5144  5302  5427  
0389  0999  1364  2117  2799  5008  5145  5303  5474  
0397  1072  1373  2118  2801  5009  5146  5304  5475  
0398  1077  1378  2252  2810  [;011  5149  ;;3o;;  [;480  
0399  1083  1379  2370  3134  [;014  5158  5:{06  5482  
0401  1085  1384  2375  3145  5015  5160  5:{07  54S3  
0402  1086  13S6  2377  3146  5017  5161  [)308  5485  
0464  1087  1389  2488  3148  50:l5  5162  5309  5487  
0465  1089  1395  2492  :l161  50:l6  5163  5311  5488  
0470  1090  1397  2496  3163  5o:J8  5165  5313  5489  
0471  1100  14SO  256S  3219  50:l9  5168  5314  5490  
0472  1248  1481  2579  3256  5040  5171  5326  5491  
0518  1249  1507  2580  3257  5045  5173  5328  [)492  
0572  1254  1508  2581  3260  [)048  5176  5337  [)499  
072S  1257  1512  2585  3261  5104  5226  5:n9  5501  
0741  1264  1587  2589  3263  5105  5235  5340  5502  
0749  1270  1619  2590  3268  5106  5253  5341  5503  


The 


Casualties of war 
AP Photo A makeshift morgue is set up in San Salvador Monday following the fighting between leftist guerrillas and government troops last weekend. The fighting is the heaviest in the 1 0-year-old civil war. Story page 3. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

To J.R. 
~®Dtru~®@J ~ ~rrlt[{i)cQJtroW \YAYJ~@[{i)@}@ 
Love, Mom, Dad &Jen 
Link 
Ifyou've achieved an outstanding academic record that has placed you in the top quarter of your class and you'd like to learn more about the rewards of working in management con­sulting before pursuing an advanced degree, we've got a link between the two -don't miss it: 
Research Associate Reception 
Upper Lounge, University Club 
Thursday, November 16, 1989 
6:00-8:00 p.m. 
Let us, as one ofthe nation's largest management consulting and accounting firms, show you what you're missing, on November 16th. Please don't forget to bring your resume. If· you cannot attend, please forward your resume to: Director ofResearch, Deloitte & Touche Management Consulting Group, Ill East Wicker Drive, Chicago, IL60601. DeloiJte & Touche will be interviewing on campus on }anuarv 29, 1990. Equal Opportunity Employer M/F. 
Deloitte 
&Touche 
Creating imaginative solutions. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------­

NEW ORLEANS (AP) -The nation's top public and private heart organizations released "overwhelming evidence" on cholesterol Tuesday that they said "more than justifies" the campaign to change the way Americans eat. 
The American Heart Associa­tion and the National Heart. Lung and Blood Institute pre­pared "The Cholesterol Facts" in reaction to an article in September's Atlantic Monthly called "The Cholesterol Myth." 
The article's author, Wash­ington writer Thomas Moore, analyzed a variety of research to make his point that the cholesterol scare has been overblown. 
The organizations marshaled the same studies and many more to reach the opposite conclusion: Americans should cut down on saturated fat and cholesterol in their diet to minimize their risk of heart disease. 
"If you give the message that cholesterol is a myth. it is wrong. It is important that we detect and treat it," said Dr. John LaHosa of George Wash­ington University. 
LaB.osa. who called Moore's work "sensational" and "not responsible," was one of six prominent heart experts who gathered at the annual meeting of the American Heart Associa­tion to present the case against cholesterol. 
Moore could not be reached to respond. There was no an­swer at his Washington office, the only location his publisher said he could be reached at. 
The doctors said Moore mis­interpreted some studies and ignored many others, such as animal research and findings that countries with low-fat di­ets have much lower heart at­tack rates. 
In their report, the doctors said they "intend to remove any doubts about the direct relation between cholesterol and heart disease" and to "dispel the cholesterol myths." 
They cited a variety of evi­dence to back their contention that people live longer if they cut their cholesterol. Among these was a Norwegian study showing that people who re­duced cholesterol by diet alone had 40 percent fewer deaths over an eight-year period. 
"There is overwhelming data that in addition to lessening your heart attack risk in your 40s, 50s and 60s, you will live a little longer by following a bet­ter diet," said another panel member, Dr. William Castelli of the Framingham Heart Study in 
Saint Mary's College Department of Communication &Theatre presents a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre production of 
Anton Chekhov's 
Tl}ree Sisters 
November 15, 16, 17, 18 at 8:10 p.m. November 19 at 3:10 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Box Office 284-4646 
. f!i---­
Satnt Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME ··INDIANA 
suburban Boston. 
Some strong new evidence in favor of lowering cholesterol also was presented during the meeting Tuesday. Doctors out­lined results of three studies showing that reducing choles­terol, either through medicine or diet, can actually shrink the buildups in blood vessels that underlies most heart disease. 
The studies, all conducted on people with advanced heart dis­ease, included: 
-Dr. Greg Brown of the Uni­versity of Washington put peo­ple on two combinations of cholesterol-lowering drugs. Over five years, the fatty buildups shrank in 35 percent and got bigger in 23 percent. 
page 7 
Family religious education discussed by Groeschel 
By JOE MOODY News Staff 
Various aspects of spiritual­ity in the family and in each in­dividual throughout various stages of life was one of the topics discussed last night in a lecture by Father Benedict Groeschel. 
"The Role of the Family in Religious Education: The First and Last Stand" was the title of the lecture. It was the first in a series from the Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life Committee on the subject of the family. The lecture was brought about by the chairman of the committee, Tom D'Andrea. 
Groeschel discussed, among other things, the subject of re­ligious education in the family. He said, "Religious education is supposed to make you think about death, about the end of life, about where you are go­ing." 
He mentioned how every child needed to know three essential things: Why am I here? Where am I going? And how do I get there? He pointed out how a good family must teach the faith through consistent exam­ple and by living it themselves. 
He explained how we can only teach about God in shadows, since we cannot yet see Him in his fullness. Children of 11 years old and younger should be taught through stories and concrete facts because they cannot yet comprehend the ab­stract, he said. 
Groeschel did deal extensively with the title of the lecture, as well as speaking in great detail about his dramatic and reveal­ing experiences while working with Mother Theresa, being Chaplian of a reform school in New York for 14 years, and his work in the Good Counsel homeless shelters that he founded in the New York metropolitan area. 
He received his doctorate in psychology from Columbia Uni­versity in 1971 and is currently Professor of Pastoral Psychol­ogy at lona College in New Rochelle, New York. 
McCartan elected to N D Board of Trustees 
Special to The Observer Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, which dates from the 
Cleveland attorney Patrick advent of lay governance at the McCartan has been elected a University in 1967, numbers 47 trustee of the University of persons and is headed by Don­Notre Dame. ald Keough, president and chief 
McCartan, a partner in Jones, operating officer of the Coca­Day, Reavis & Pogue, received Cola Company. his B.A. degree from Notre Dame in 1956 and his law de­gree from the University in 1959. He has been a member of the Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council since 1979. 

Another brick in the wall 
AP Photo 
An East German citizen holds a piece of the wall up to an East German border guard as he moves into the West at Wollankstrasse passage in West Berlin's district of Wadding Monday. 
~0 ~OU ~(~/£~ 'TO M>!1(J£ SO?tfl£ 
©~§~~~ 
The O'Shaughnessy, LaFortune, and Hesburgh Computer Labs need Consultants for 2nd Semester 
(Late nite shifts for LaFortune and non-consulting positions are also available) Macintosh and/or DOS experience required for all positions. Contact Carolyn Goodnight in Room 246 Hesburgh Library for an application by November 22, 1989. 
Qualified Candidates will be contacted for 

Getting Comfortable With a Zenith Laptop Now 
r 
, "' 
, 
r 
' 
' 
~ 
' 




r r 
l r Can Make for a Comfortable
' 
Future in the Real World 
Zenith Puts the Power of a Desktop in Your Lap 
For More Details Contact 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Math/Computer Building 239-7477 Mon. Fri. 9 -5 

Viewpoint 
page 9
Wednesday, November 15, 1989 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Regis Coccia  Rich Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor  Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Manager .........Molly Killen  
Viewpoint Editor  . .Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager .... Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor  Theresa Kelly  Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks  
Accent Editor  ..... John Blas1  Systems Mgr .  ..Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor  Enc Bailey  OTS Director  .Angela Bellanca  
Saint Mary's Editor  ..Chris!lne Gill  Controller  ...... Anne Lindner  

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not· necessarily reflect the pol­ICies of the admm1strat1on of e1ther mstitution The news IS reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as possible Uns1gned editorials represent. the opimon of the majority of the follow1ng. Ed1tor-in-Ch1ef. Managmg Editor. Executive News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Ed1tor. Commentaries, letters. and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free express1on of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Let market amend itself to female workforce 
When trying to reach an im­portant goal. one often neglects Raja Singhthe best possible means in ex­change for the quickest results. Ideas and Issues 
Such is the case with many of , 
the goals of the feminist move-\ ------------­ment under the direction of skills and viewpoints that the Eleanor Smeal. Smeal favors candidate possesses. The can­bringing women to the fore-dictates' positions on feminism front of politics by "flooding should rank as a high concern tickets" for elections and only when voting. But should it be voting for candidates that sup-the only concern? Smeal's port and work for feminist stance requires voting for pro­principles. Smeal. through her feminist candidates regardless support of the Equal Rights of their views on other issues, Amendment, also believes in such as the economy or inter­bolstering women's pay in sup-national relations. The feminist port of equal pay for equal candidate may improve condi­work even at the expense of lions for women while worsen­hindering our market economy. ing the positions of other is-
Although I strongly agree sues. with the end result that Smeal Similar reasoning can be ap­is seeking -equal opportunity plied to the strategy of flooding for women in all aspects of life election tickets with women -1 disagree with her approach. candidates. It is true that the Radical techniques, such as best man for the job may be a flooding tickets, voting based woman, but it is not simply be­on one issue, and setting pay cause she's a woman. Equal guidelines on jobs, are not done opportunities in education have in the best interest of all in-yielded a more intelligent and volved and are many times motivated woman work force detrimental to our nation as a that has all the abilities to per-whole. form equally as well as men. 
The principle behind voting For that reason, competition for positions in our government between candidates should be is to select the best person for based on skills and issues the job based on the variety of rather than the candidate's sex. 
The mere attribute of being a woman does not qualify one to be a good government officer, just as being a man does not either. Past experience, accom­
plishments and views on impor­tant issues, feminism being on of them, should transcend such criteria as sex in choosing gov­ernment officials. 
Equal pay for equal work has been a cornerstone of feminism since its beginnings, and, in theory, it is correct. The con­cept is that jobs that require equal skill and are of compara­ble worth, whether or not the jobs are the same, should re­ceive the same wage. However, in a market economy such as ours, wages are determined by the supply and demand for the job rather than just the skills required to perform the job. The key reason for lower wages in positions that are normally held by women is the oversupply of qualified applicants for a fixed number of positions. 
When women first began to enter the job market in large numbers during the 60's and 70's, the majority went into traditional women jobs, such as nursing, teaching and secretar­ial work. This influx flooded the job market and lowered wages in these positions. Other jobs that are normally held by men did not experience this oversupply and therefore re­tained their wage level even though they are of comparable skill level to the traditional women's jobs. 
By imposing wage guidelines on these positions based on equal skills and comparable worth, a disequilibrium would bfl created in the economy and demand for these positions would l:>e even higher. The cor­rect action is to let the job market adjust to the higher level of women in the work force. The initial effect, lower wages in traditional women's jobs, will prompt women to in­vestigate new positions de­manding new employees rather than to continue to chase the limited opportunities that have traditionally been available. 
In order to disagree with Smeal's approach to feminism, I feel that I must also outline an alternative. Approaches like flooding tickets and promoting feminist candidates for office are designed to make women influential, important, and most of all, respected. The way to achieve these goals is not by forcing acceptance but by opening opportunities. Results of opportunities in higher edu­cation have been tremendous; having women as a part of the learning community has given both genders an educated in­sight and respect for each 
other. 
Also as a result of education, women are entering fields of science, engineering and busi­ness, fields that offer wages ) higher than traditional women's jobs, at an increasing rate. Education is something that requires time. For this reason, it is not hard to believe that the economy is still adjust­ing to the oversupply in the 60's and 70's. 
The quick result tactics that Smeal advocates are not the answer to feminism's goals; they will produce only quick fixes at the expense of other important issues. These goals must be reached through the slow but effective process of education. This, however, is something that you should de­cide for yourself by investigat­ing both sides of the case. Smeal will be presenting her views tonight at 8:00 p.m. 
Raja Singh is a junior finance major. The Ideas and Issues column is sponsored by SUB. 

1 
,l 
,
,
LETTERS , 
1
Dance theme tempts students to degrade Christianity 
~ 
Dear Editor: Last Temptation of Christ" is our Lord. should, I unyieldingly demand , I am responding in disgust insulting not only to our This theme of "Your Last that the administration of the 
1
and revulsion to some advertis­intelligence but also to every Temptation" is an open invita­University and the School of ing I have been seeing lately in Christian student at this tion for people to mock our Architecture immediately bring ~ the dining halls and covering University. I had thought that Lord under the guise of a to an end this proposedthe campus of Our Lady's Uni­the issue of this film's. im-"Beaux Arts Ball," whatever rudeness and that those with versity. The students of the morality and inappropriateness that might be. I find this any sense of religious decorum ~ School of Architecture are gaily on this campus had been laid to patently offensive, and frankly, join me in a boycott of this pa­announcing their upcoming rest, but the students of the am baffled how the University gan ritual. dance with the theme "Your School of Architecture appar-and the School of Architecture Last Temptation." ently see fit to revive it in the could permit such a heresy on 
This thinly veiled reference to form of some sort of festival campus. Jonathan Hagerman the blasphemous and which blatantly condon.es and As I believe all students who Stanford Hall artistically worthless film "The encourages the degradation of-call themselves Christian Nov. 13, 1989 
lH&RE
)f){) 
H4'3N'T
IIAVE:N'T 
BeeN
"'1/'XP 
77Me.
HIM, 
7Hif~Ai.J,
PHI/,-:{ 
HAPPEJ.Jel)
I SO FAt;;!. 
\ 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
SON, IWfAueN 
IN /..OVe. I~ 60·
I /1./AS 
ING7DASK
AfRAJ() 
'rVUR. MOTHeR 'The one who loves the least 
OF THIS... 
FOR. A OIVOI?££;. 
\ 
controls the relationship.'
~ 
Dr. Robert Anthony 

Ace 
EXPO Student exhibi brings Rom
ROMA 
to Notre Da 
..
...... ­
...... 
,r 
SHONDA WILSON "only minutes from... struc­to mention the attraction that 
tures which effect architecture Home seems to have on 
to this day," says Kevin Keirn students, "every day (in Rome) xpo Homa is an who just last year participated was filled with powerful experi­Pxhibition for in this experience. ences," remarked Keirn. arehitPcture Studying at Daliazo Capran­But not only is Expo Homa a majors to display nica, a studio about two blocks means of advertisement for the mPmoriPs of from the Pantheon, the archi­Home trip, but it is also a thPir expnrienee tecturP majors take elasses in chance for architectural stu-· of studying in design studio, architecture the­dents to get together and re­HomP ThP ory. architecture history and hash past moments. "It was re­exhibition will various other courses. ally fun organizing the exhibit last until Thurs­But the "Rome experience" is because it brought back so 

not only academic. Yes, stu­many memories," says architec­
accent writer 
day and is located in tlw archi­
tecture building. dents want to have fun, too. ture major Kim Conrard, "like 
Founded in 1969 by Outside activities include lield sitting on Spanish steps and Francnseo Montana. Expo trip to such cities as Venice, singing with the people." Homa is prnsenting its 20th ex­Florence and Sicily. And while hibition. With various forms of "normal" Domers have gone Memories like these, which 
art such as sketehings, water­home for Christmas or will remain for this group when colors, and photos, a major at­midsemester breaks, these stu­the 1 OOth Expo Rom a is being 
taction for viewers will be a dents are allowed to travel celebrated, seem to make the model of Home crnated by sev­throughout Europe on their trip worthwhile alone, not to Pral graduatP students. own. Of course the cost is on mention the fact that sketches 
According to fourth year ar­their own also, but somehow of Rome are a plus for personal chitectural student Lucy these struggling students man­portfolios in the job market. Baraquio. "Expo Homa is a age. The Expo Roma is an oppor­great way to share the (Home) Some of the faculty responsi­tunity for the rest of the NO 
experience with others and give ble for making last year's trip a community to share not only in the program the exposure it success were director Gloria the architectural students' would not otherwise receive." Sarna, architectural historian memories, but also to see the 
This mandatory year of study Jeffery Blanchard, theory pro­influence Rome has had on 
in Home for architecture majors fessor Sally Schafer, painter their work. The exhibit is open is the only one like it in the Richard Piccolo, and NO archi­to all viewers in the architec­country. It provides students tecture professor Ken Feather­ture building until Thursday, 
with the opportunity to study stone. Through their efforts, not November 16. 
r 
r 
Board's pledge to protest Apartheid still not fulfilled
r 
r 
r feel angry and betrayed. and recipient of innumerable 
investments in the internal meaningful negotiations can r The University of Notre honorary doctorates, yet also economy do nothing but occur. The South African Dame Board of Trustees a man who cannot even vote bolster the infrastructure of Government must: I made a promise three in his own country due to the Two apartheid. The Board of 1.) Lift the State of 
years ago which they color of his skin. Neither can Trustees claims it desires Emergency. have failed to fulfill. They 7 4% of the population. South improvement in the conditions 2.) Release all detainees claimed that if conditions in When the Board of Trustees of Black South Africans, yet and political prisoners and 
South Africa did not improve remains silent, not only are they take no concrete steps to allow exiles to return home.
Africas
and that if the violence they turning their back on the serve as a catalyst for this im­3.) Disban the African 
continued, the University people of South Africa, they By Mike Schadek provement. The Board of National Congress and all 
would divest it's holdings with are also turning their back on Trustees claims it desires an other banned and restricted 
corporations doing business in the people of the University of end to the violence and political organizations. 
this pressure. The application
South Africa. The bitter Notre Dame. Notre Dame is oppression (both economic 4.) Guarantm~ free political
of various forms of economic
reality is that conditions have supposed to stand for such and political), yet they hide activity and amend the
and diplomatic pressure is the
not improved, the violence great values as compassion, behind a veil of secrecy and Internal Security Aet and all
only manner in which those 
has continued, and the Board justice and social apathy. other laws accordingly. 
outside South Africa can force
of Trustees has taken no responsibility, yet the Board of What has the Board of 5.) Repeal the Population 
the government to sit down 
action. Trustees simply ignores the Trustees done in the matter? Registration Act, the Separate
and bargain with the people.
I am perhaps most incensed suffering in South Africa. How can they justify their Amenities Aet, the Group 
Any other efforts are exercises
due to the fact that I traveled Sadly, we all implicitly inaction? We deserve Areas Act and all other laws
in futility. Thus, it is time for 
to South Africa and saw for condone the Board's answers, as do the people of which organize South African 
Notre Dame and the Board of
myself the ·harsh realities of abandonment of South Africa South Africa. If real change is society on the basis of race.
Trustees to add its voice to the
apartheid. I walked the de­when we fail to confront them. to occur in South Africa, it will It is time to revive the issue 
worldwide chorus of anti­
plorably dirty streets of a Our silence is our consent. require consistent pressure on of South Africa and deal with 
apartheid participants. To
shantytown and I sat in the The University of Notre the South African it in a conclusive manner. It is
continue the deadly silence 
rusty metal and cardboard Dame must fully support the Government, and the time for the Board of Trustees
and non participation of this
enclosures which so many struggle for freedom and University of Notre Dame has to live up to their end of the
University as it stands now is
individuals call home. I spoke democracy in South Africa, an obligation to exert some of bargain and for the University 
a bastardization of our role as 
to the mothers and fathers and ultimately this means that pressure. The University of Notre Dame to live up to its 
America's foremost Catholic 
who have had their children getting the South African must not only divest as it mission. It is time for divest­
university.
detained and tortured by the government to the bargaining claimed it would do three ment.
Notre Dame's inaction 
Security Police. I lived with table. This will only occur by years ago, but iL must demand Mike Schadek is a senior
perpetuates apartheid. The
Archbishop Tutu, the highest exerting pressure upon them, five fundamental concessions government major. This is the 
Board of Trustees claims it de­
Anglican leader in the nation, and sanctions are the only by the South African last in a series offiue columns 
sires an end to the racist 
a Nobel PeacP Prize winner non-violent vehicle to achieve Government before about South Africa. 
South African regime, yet our 



.j ,j -' 
-
nt 

•
ton e 

-
Photos courtesy of Andrew McCloskey. (Above Left) This pen and ink sketch is one of the many pieces of artwork on (Above) A b<mner of a Roman dome was made in a collaborative effort by Notre display at the exhibition in the Architecture building. Dame Arch!tecture students. The banner will be on display through Friday. 

.. • 

ers. It's not that we don't have enough variety. A friend and I counted the number of different brands of room air fresheners at the store the other day and there were 38 different kinds. We also counted cereal, 136 not including the hot variety. 
I should mention that jour­nalists feel very strongly about this issue since it affects all of us at one time or another, every weekend. And in that we can't think of anything else to write about and, besides we have to finish this before "Cheers" comes on. 
Anyway, the reason we bring this up (air fresheners, remem­ber?) is that we were at a party the other night. Now, I know you're thinking, "Golly Gee Whiz, Dan, you sure go to a lot of parties." Well, shut up! What are you my mother? So, we were at this party, and we feel it would be most appropriate right here and now to inform all of you that Mister Beau is NOT an acceptable beverage to offer a guest. Especially if you're 
DAN FONTANA 
The Real World ... 
This reminds us of another point. Coming in, that is. What do you that say we all agree to start instituting some organized plans for Traffic Patterns through these parties. Maybe if we started using theater ropes or something. We don't know. 
And how about beverage dis­tribution? Let's face it, the sin­gle garbage can in the corner isn't working. Halfway through the night all the ice melts, the darn thing has an undertow. People are getting sucked in. Swirled around. No wonder they're always running outside getting sick. 
Anyway, we got into this party and we soon began to detect a rather unpleasant aroma. Naturally, we thought the person next to us must have gone to the Taco Bar for dinner, so we moved to the other side of the room. Unfortunately, the stench followed us. We soon began to realize that our shoes were sticking to the floor and that everyone in the reom was sweating, especially the people dancing. Finally, we noticed that the door was shut because of some rule about letting parties extend beyond the room. 
As I'm sure you've figured out by now, the combination of sweat, barley, hops, and no ventilation created a smell very similar to that of, well, quite frankly, Hurricane Cheerlead­ers. 
Naturally, being Brilliant Minds of Tomorrow, we tried to find a way of getting rid of this smelL We had the mushroom­looking things going. The LysoL The Potpuorri burners. Nothing seemed to work. Now if someone doesn't do something quick we may just have to stop having par...ha ha, just kidding! We would NEVER do that. No, either the government inter­venes on this freshener thing or we actually start voting on elec­tion day. Imagine all the trouble THAT would cause all you 
-
politicians out there in good ol' 
reader land. 
Speaking of all you out there 
in reader land, I've been getting 
some letters and would like to 
respond to them. Yes. Yes. No. 
Yes. I'm not that kind of guy. 
No. No. Chill out! I was just 
kidding. Yes. And, lastly, what 
would you be wearing at the 
time? Now if you'll excuse me, I 
have to go buy some cereaL 
This could take all afternoon. 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Luther Darville was cited for contempt of court Tuesday for refusing to reveal the names of athletes to whom he claims to have given money before his firing by the University of Minnesota. 
"The court has determined that this evidence, and testi­mony. is relevant to the resolu­tion of this case and has ordered Mr. Darville to disclose this information," Hennepin County District Judge Patrick Fitzgerald told jurors at Darville's swindling trial. 
Although jurors were cleared from the courtroom when the citation was handed down. they received special instructions concerning Darville's refusal to respond. 
Fitzgerald told jurors that. during their deliberations, they should disregard Darville's possible reasons for refusing to answer. 
"You may also infer because of Mr. Darville's refusal to an­swer these questions that, had the evidence been disclosed, the evidence would have been ad­verse to the interest of Mr. Darville in the defense of his case," he said. 
For a second day, Darville cited loyalty to the athletes as his reason for refusing to iden­tify them .. 
"I can't violate the confidence of the players," Darville said. "I can't answer that." 
"You mean you won't answer that," retorted prosecutor Pete Connors. 
Fitzgerald said he would de­cide how to punish Darville for contempt after the trial is over. 
Darville, who headed the Office 
of Minority and Special Student 
Affairs until he was fired in 
April 1988, is on trial for al­
legedly stealing about $186,000 
from the university for his per­
sonal use. 
During cross examination Tuesday, Connors continued questioning Darville's credibil­ity. grilling him about discrep­ancies between original state­ments he made in 1988 and his later testimony in court. 
Connors also questioned Darville's handling of his per­sonal finances. 
Darville said he declared his mother as a dependant for tax years 1986-87 even though she is not a resident of the United States and was not residing with him at the time. Darville testified he did not understand that residency and citizenship were requirements to tax-de­pendent status. 
Connors also questioned Darville's actions when audi­tors discovered the missing funds. 
-page 12 The Observer Wednesday, November 15, 1989 Darville in contempt after refusal to release names 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the  
Classifieds  Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.  
- 
NOTICES Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 WOADPROCESSING 272·8827 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 WORDPROCESSING 272-8827  LOST: single key, no key chain. marked 209. Lost Sunday afternoon between 02 and North Quad. Call Cara x4917. WANTED Need ride to Hartford/NYC area for Thanksgiving leave 22NOV return 26 NOV call Chuck #2388 NEED ride to or near Long Island for thanksgiving! Please call Mary Ellen at 3561. will share $  1-WAY TICKET FROM SB TO DALLAS/FORT WORTH. LEAVES DEC 22.FEMALE ONLY. $160.CALL LISA AT 4916. Red 4 door 1980 Honda Accord Call '3619 CHEAP AT TIX SBEND(12122) to SACTO.CA RETURN(1/15) Marge 283-2898 MIAMI TIX for sale plus plane tic  need PSU ga's Rick #1795 Help! We really need tickets for PENN STATE x2631 PERSONALS ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901  Desp. seeking ride to IU BLOOMINGTON· Nov 17, 18 Pis. help-Will pay GAS 284-4167 • HAPPY22' TO JON GIOMETTI IT'S CRAB PARADISE! IT'S CRAB PARADISE! JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS  CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 HiAg! Need a ride to HARRISBURG ?? (or in the general area??) I need riders to help drive & share expenses forT-giving. Leaving Tues. 1 pm and returning Sun PLEASE call Beth X2722 ANTI-APARTHEID VIGIL EVERY  
THANKSGIVING SERVICE PROJECT: Join other students working at a shelter for the home­less in Chicago. Call Jim Cabot @ 277·9198 or Mike Afleck@ 239-7943. TEXTBOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD Pandora's Books corner of N.D. ave and Howard 233-2342 lots of paperbacks in stock! TYPING AVAILABLE. 287·4082. TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes Pick up & delivery available. 277­5134 10am-8pm RIDE NEEDED: To Indiana U. (Bloomington) weekend of Nov. 17-19. Will pay gas$$$. Call x 1502 & ask for John. LOST/FOUND Losl N.D. ring after fall break Please call Tim at 288-5320 FOUND: WATCH IN THE HEISBURGH PARKING LOT CALL DORTHY @ 239-6640  HELP! AIDE NEEDED FROM PHILADELPHIA-WILMINGTON AREA BACK TO NO Sun. 11/26 Call Greg X3254 I need Catholics vs. Convicts II T -shirts! Please call Kathleen at 284-5120 OVERSEAS JOBS.$900·2000 mo. Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 ATIENTION · HIRING! Government jobs · your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call1-602·838· 8885. Ext. A-6262. COUCH or LOVE SEAT NEEDED. IF U HAVE 1 TO SELL, CALL x3609. NEW JERSEY-NYC AREA: I need ride home & back for Thanksgiving Break. If you're going to NJ/NYC area, I will share expenses and driving. Please call Ray 234-4332 Leave message! GOVERNMENT JOBS! Now hiring in your area, both skilled and unskilled. For a current list of jobs and application, call1-615·383· 2627 ext. p306  john 1700 for info HOME STEREO system for sale. YAMAHA R-5 receiver, YAM AHA CD player and POLK AUDIO JR 5 speakers. Quality system for only $675 or best offer. Call 291-2918. 2 AT TIX F/ SB TO ST. LOUIS. $100 EACH, OR BEST OFFER. CALL LIZ@ 284-5199. Plane Ticket: Lv: 12121 O'Hare 11 :08 AM Ar: ROCHESTER, NY 1:34 PM $75orBO Call1329 TICKETS I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239·3714, leave a message. Thanks. I need 2 MIAMI tickets Call Tim at 288-5320 $$$HELP$$$ NEED MIAMI TIX  ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901 GOING ABROAD SALE IBM Proprinter XL ($250) & IBM PC Jr. w/256K ($300). (080) MANY PROGRAMS INCLUDED ... Call Christine 283-2845 ADOPTION · Well-educated couple eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home full of books. Flexible on sharing information with birth mother about child. Our adoption agency can provide counseling and references. Please call collect 309·827·3135 eveslwknds for profile/photo. James and Hollis. WIN A VCR I ANYONE CAN WIN! TICKETS ON SALE FOR $1 AT THE SENIOR/ALUMNI CLUB AND SENIOR CLASS OFFICES. OTHER PRIZES INCLUDE GIFT CERTIFICATES AT LOCAL RESTAURANTS. DRAWING NOV. 15. LENNY, WHERE CAN I FIND YOU! Q.T>  Dinner and Dancing Center Street Blues Cafe Wed. Nov. 15 $3 buses leave main circle at 7pm and return at 10. STUDENTS WANTED TO MARKET NO CALENDAR OF EVENTS. CALL ALLEN 277·4469. Need a ride to Richmond,VA. DC. or general area for Thanksgiving. Will help pay for gas. CaiiX2933 Look out Madison ! Here Need a ride to Mpls./St. Paul for Thanksgiving? Call Renee x4251 . Leaving Tues. aft. or Wed. Think about it.. Then let it happen. Forget all the trials and tribulations and late nights. This is it. This is what we've all been waiting for. THE GATHERING It's an occassion for those who call this newspaper home ...and it's coming soon.  FRI12:15 ADMIN BLDG STEPS PARROTHEADS FOREVER!!!! PARROTHEADS FOREVER!!!! Start your Christmas Shopping early! Ride the WINDY CITY SHUTILE and shop this Saturday in Chicago. Cost is $10.00 at the Information Desk in LaFortune. Miami! Miami! Miami! Miami! I need a ride to Miami for the game. I'm willing to share expenses and my food. If you're going and have some room, CALL MIKE AT 1789. If you need copies you need THE COPY SHOP THE COPY SHOP THE COPY SHOP THE COPY SHOP THE COPY SHOP in the basement of LaFortune TO MARYANN I LOVE YOU VERY MUCH. MIKEY OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer,Yr.round.AII Countries, All fields, Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona  
18 K necklace with charms lost··· Please return to Stephanie @ 284· 4431 Found: a lady's ring between North dining hall and Cavanaugh on November 7. Call Katie to identify at #4828! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ LOST AND NEEDS TO BE FOUND!I!IIIIIIIIII! JOHN CARLIN WANTS HIS SCAPULA WITH VERY IMPORTANT MEDALLION ATIACHED LOST TWO SUNDAYS AGO ON STEPAN FIELD DURING FOOTBALL GAME. HUGE MONEY PRIZES DO THE DEED AND CALL ME AT 283· 1178THANKS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  ATIENTION: EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868 Going to Penn State? I need ride to OH-PA border-will share expenses. Please call KRISTI · 3778! RIDERS NEEDED TO BOWLING GREEN,OHI0.11/17·11/19. CALL X 1675 I need a ride to Kansas City, MO for Thanksgiving. Will share espenses. Call Theresa at 2772. -------------------~--------·-------­December A&L or Business Grads Want to earn more $ than your engineering friends? Looking for personable, energetic individuals to build new branch of multi-billion  CALL 3516 FOR SALE: Many MIAMI Ga's Call Keira 2169 TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S 312-920-9350 NEED MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY$$$. CALL JIM HAGAN COLLECT 404­331-6039. CALL 404·351-7009 AFTER6 PM. I simply must have 2 Miami tickets call Ted@ 1204 WANTED: MIAMI GAs for lots o cash. Call John or Frank X1419 PENN STATE I NEED3 GAS SHAWN 271-9901  LENNY'S WHERE DOMER"S MEET. NOW OFFERING PIZZA, DELl SAND. , BURGERS, BEER. MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL WATCH THE GAME AT LENNY'S DAILY FOOD SPECIALS. Do you want to LEARN SELF-DEFENSE? MEET NICE PEOPLE? HAVE A LOT OF FUN? Come to JUDO CLASS!!! TONIGHT 8pm-1 Opm at ROCKNE room219 or call4053 WIN A MACINTOSH SE! Bring a raffle ticket to Theodore's WEDNESDAY, NOV.15, 7-10P.M. BROCCOLI  If you have ideas, suggestions, or time to offer, talk to Regis. If you have criticisms, keep them to yourself. -Jersey Babe So Jeannie... Were those really your panties? Driving Back to NO in January? I need a ride back from Ft. Lauderdale after Christmas Break. Will share expenses. Call Will at 283-1474. DILLON NIGHTS AT THE MOVIES -Each and Every Weekend­-FRIDAY· 9:00 Colors 11 :30 Planes, Trains, Automobiles -SATURDAY· 9:00 Aobocop  Del Mar CA 92625. Intellectual Life Committee invites you to view the film "ROMERO" at University Park East Wed., Nov. 15, 7:00 Admission $3.00 at door Free bus, 6:15, Main Circle Discussion at Keenan Chapel See the story of the martyred Archbishop of San Salvadore NEED AIDE: to Wash. DC area for Thanksgiving break CALL X1329 OR X1331 Jersey Boy (yeah you with the mane): Hey give me a call sometime... JUNIORS: Join your friends for  
LOST: Two Cross Pens bearing the AT&T logo. One lost on 10/16 in room 122 Hayes Healy, other  $ corp. Must be honest, ambitious, & eager to learn. For personal interview call271-0173 between 8am-4pm. Ask for Mr  Wanted 2 tickets for the Miami game. Call Bob at 312·832·3308 $$!  Model United Nations will meet Thursday, Nov. 16, at 7 pm for a simulation, in 220 Hayes-Healy.  11 :30 Good Morning, Vietnam -In the Dillon Party Room· -It's lun...and it's FREE!­ dinner and dancing this Wednesday at Center Street  
- lost in LaFortune. Have sentimental value. If found please call Joe@ 3804: REWARD  Firstenberger FOR RENT  .............•......•.....•.••••••••. WANTED MIAMI GA'S. TOP$$ PD. CALL 256·1034  BRENDAN "BONEHEAD" SHEEHAN IS 21 TODAYIII! CALL HIM AT 1692 AND SAY "HI I" WITH ALL HIS TESTS THIS  Ride needed from Pittsburgh to NO after Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. Call Karen x4929  Blues Cafe Featuring a local reggae band  
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• LOST I LOST MY WATCH IN C1 ON THUR. NOVEMBER 9 BETWEEN 9:00 AND 9:30A.M. I'LL PAY A REWARD. CALL STEVE AT 289·  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219·291-7153. FOR SALE  THANKS I •.........••••••••••..•....•••••••... ALUM in NEED of NO/MIAMI tickets !II Call on weekdays during the day COLLECT at# 202-457-5729. Do not hesitate to call. Your tickets will be bought!!  WEEK, HE HAS TO THINK, NOT DRINK. (UNTIL FRIDAY) AT THE COMMONS, WE WILL SEE IF HIS BUM KNEE WONT LET HIM P""l!l HAPPY BIRTHDAY FROM YOUR LOVING ROOMMATES: OGRE, SKI, AND PUNY!!!  BEAUX ARTS BALL BEAUX ARTS BALL BEAUX ARTS BALL its not just for arkies any more  $3 cover at the door Buses leave main circle at 7pm and return at 1Opm  
9710.  BOSTON ANYONE?  ...............•..•••••••.•...••••••.  . ..•••••••••••.•••..•••..•••••••••...  

•••••••••.••••••••••••••••••••••••••• roundtrip plane ticket SB to Boston HAVE TWO MIAMI GA'S "'LONG ISLAND" B A ~~g~T MY WATCH IN C1 ON ~~~~~n~~~;!~;o or bio ~~L~~6~u::ii~io1 ~~~~~~~~1~~~~Jl3Will share$. AT S yo~t 8i~!e~=~2SiC
EA THUR. NOVEMBER 9 BETWEEN ·····••·•·····•••••••·••••••••••••••• ..........•.•.•••••.......••••••.•... ····••·••···•···········••••.•••·••··· ~ temptation!!! Sponsored by Soph. Class 
9:00 AND 9:30A.M. I WILL MACINTOSH 512K MIAMI TIX NEEDED TOM RUST • Whether you marry . nx and Transportation $35 GLADLY PAY A REWARD. CALL Wi PRINTER & ACCESS. Rich Alum hates the 'Canes me or not. you will always be my liS ~etter to come en mass than Available in Soph. Class OffiCe 
~~~t:~~~?~·-··~"-··· . , ..;.....~~..~~;~~~:_~·~-:..........a •.··~~ .;~g~?-~~;~~:~~~~~;~~~;~-~:~; .....·:,~ .~:;;~:;~-~~~~~;~r~~~~~-~~ ....4;:~:~:~~~~~~~;~~;~~-~:~:':':~ ..........,. .....,.....,..:.·r.:·....w~'hranun.b~~~~,;,·lLI't~L;'··'.t.i'"~·.:&·~~"""" 
Wednesday, November 15, 1989 The Observer page 13 

:\lanw: 
Address: 
RAFFLE TICKET 
< 
J'hlll1L': 
Mac is what you make it. 
Between 7 and 10 pm tonight, come see what Macintosh® comptiters can do for you, and you could go home with a new comptiter! The Design Alliance is hosting a Macintosh computer expo at Theodore's with music, food, drink, and software demos. One lticky winner will leave with a free Macintosh SE ®... why not you? Bring your raffle ticket and please, join us. 
Drawing at 9 pm. 

Mac is What You Make It 
·~-·.· .....
·.... ..,-..... , ......... -· ~ • • -,~ "< L i ' ~ . 
Il)HlJ Ap-pk CompuiL"i·. Inc Appk. thi: 'Appk.k>go. ~bdntosh and \ladntosh SF. arl' rL"gistL'rL'd tradL"marks of Appk Computc·r. Inc 
Sports Wednesday
BASKETBALL TOP 25 SCOREBOARD_ NVA RESULTS SPORTS LIST 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Results from Nov. 8-14 Graduate League Results Associated Press· preseason college 
Volleyball (12-16) Championship Game 
basketball poll. w1th first·place votes in 
Extra! Extra!
Rigid Designators 24, Fourth &
parentheses. total pomts based on 25·24· Northwestern del. Notre Dame, 23·22·21·20·19·18·17·16·15-14·13·12· 15-12, 15-12,6-15, 14-16, 15-7 Long 12 
Top 1 0 baseball topics in 1980's sports pages* 
page 14 November 15, 1989 

11·1 0·9·8· 7-6·5·4·3-2-1, 1988-89 record and last year"s final ranking: Record Pts Pvs 1 UNLV (30) 29-8 1,555 15 2. LSU(14) 20·12 1,447 3. Syracuse (8) 30-8 1,431 7 4. Michigan (7) 30-7 1,415 10 5. Georgetown (4) 29-5 1,412 2 6. Arizona (1) 29-4 1,266 1 7. North Carolina 29-8 1,118 5 8. Illinois 31-5 1,116 3 9. Arkansas (1) 25-7 982 10. Duke 28-8 872 9 11. Missouri 29-8 867 6 12. Louisville 24-9 714 12 13. UCLA 21-10 713 14. Indiana 27-8 638 8 15. Temple 18-12 565 16. Oklahoma 30-6 564 4 17. Notre Dame 21-9 560 18. Pittsburgh 17-13 550 19. N. Carolina St. 22-9 405 19 20. Minnesota 19-12 327 21. Oklahoma St. 17-13 307 22. Georgia Tech 20-12 293 23. Florida 21-13 269 24. Memphis St. 21-11 217 25. St. John's 20-13 173 Other receiving votes: Ball St. 143, Texas-EI Paso 143, Clemson 142, Texas 115, Houston 104, Loyola Marymount 61, Rutgers 58, Florida St. 52, La Salle 43, Wake Forest 42, Alabama 36, Oregon St. 31. Kansas 30, Mississippi 28, Xavier, Ohio 28, Ohio St. 27, Michigan St. 26, Seton Hall 24, Villanova 23, New Mexico 21, Ala.-Birmingham 20, Ark.-Little Rock 20, S. Illinois 19, Pepperdine 14, DePaul 13, Kansas St. 10, James Madison 9, Iowa St. 8, Old Dominion 8, Middle Tenn. 7. Boston U. 6, Georgia 6, Evansville 5, UC Santa Barbara 5, Maryland 4, Idaho 3, Virginia 3, Austin Peay 2, Creighton 2, N. Iowa 2. Providence .2, West Virginia 2, E. Tennessee St. 1, Purdue 1. NFL TEAM STANDINGS AMERICAN CONFERENCE East w L T Pet. PF PA Buffalo 7 3 0 .700 279 217 Miami 6 4 0 .600 211 226 Indianapolis 4 6 0 .400 174 192 New England 3 7 0 .300 181 244 N.Y. Jets 2 8 0 .200 182 272 Central Cleveland 7 3 0 .700 250 150 Houston 6 4 0 .600 272 253 Cincinnati 5 5 0 .500 235 194 Pittsburgh 4 6 0 .400 123 240 West Denver 8 2 0 .800 234 153 L.A. Raiders 5 5 0 .500 218 169 Kansas City 4 6 0 .400 187 208 San Diego 4 6 0 .400 166 185 Seattle 4 6 0 .400 160 192 NATIONAL CONFERENCE East N.Y. Giants 8 2 0 .800 229 167 Philadelphia 6 4 0 .600 210 194 Phoenix 5 5 0 .500 193 213 Washington 5 5 0 .500 223 219 Vallas 1 9 0 .100 139 259 Central Minnesota 7 3 0 .700 207 168 Chicago 6 4 0 .600 252 187 Green Bay 5 5 0 .500 241 245 Tampa Bay 3 7 0 .300 212 274 Detroit 2 8 0 .200 180 250 West San Fran'sico 9 1 0 .900 291 161 L.A. Rams 6 4 0 .600 245 218 New Orleans 5 5 0 .500 236 198 Atlanta 3 7 0 .300 174 256  Notre Dame def. Illinois-Chicago, 15-9, 15-6, 7-15, 15-7 Texas-Arlington del. Notre Dame, 15-5,15-11,11-15,15-10 Hockey (5-1-0) Notre Dame 9-6, Michigan­Dearborn 4-4 Men's basketball Notre Dame 70, Israel 65 (exhibition) Women's basketball Bulgaria 78, Notre Dame 73 (exhibition) Cross Country Men's Notre Dame finished sixth in the NCAA District IV Meet; Mike O'Connor was the only Irish harrier to qualify for the NCAA Championships with an 8th place finish Women's Notre Dame finished 17th at the NCAA District IV Meet; the Irish were led by Lucy Nusrala and Jennifer Ledrick SWimming Men's (5-0) Notre Dame 129, Bowling Green 90 Women's (4-1) Bowling Green 151, Notre Dame 149 Men's Tennis Notre Dame tied 15th-ranked Northwestern for third place in the Wisconsin Invitational FOOTBALL TOP 25 POLL The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press college football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses. records through Nov. 11 , total points based on 25­24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17 ·16-15-14-13­12-11-1 0-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last week's ranking: Record Pts Pvs 1 . Notre Dame (57) 10-0-0 1,497 1 2. Colorado (3) 10-0·0 1,439 2 3. Michigan 8-1-0 1,360 3 4. Alabama 9-0-0 1,312 4 5. Florida St. 7-2-0 1,240 5 6. Nebraska 9-1-0 1,197 6 7. Miami. Fla. 8-1-0 1,163 7 8. Southern Cal 8·2·0 1,076 9 9. Tennessee 7-1-0 991 11 10. Arkansas 8-1-0 979 10 11. Auburn 7-2-0 866 12 12. Illinois 7-2-0 855 8 13. Houston 7-2-0 754 15 14. Texas A&M 7-2-0 680 16 15. Clemson 8-2-0 632 17 16. Virginia 9-2-0 564 18 17. Penn St. 6-2-1 425 13 18. West Virginia 7-2-1 393 19 19. Pittsburgh 5-2-1 379 14 20. Texas Tech 7-2-0 334 23 21. Brigham Young 8-2-0 310 21 22.0hioSt. 7-2-0 262 23. Fresno St. 10-0-0 233 24 24. Hawaii 8-2-0 131 25. Duke 7-3-0 114 Other receiving votes: Michigan St. 88, Georgia 81, Oklahoma 63, Florida 31, N. Carolina St. 14, Texas 12, Syracuse 7. Arizona 6. Arizona St. 5, South Carolina 3, Oregon 2, Kentucky 1, Mississippi 1.  Key plays: 1. Drug abuse (6,071 stories) RD's Jon Moody hit teammate 2. Contract and salary disputes (2,459)Steve Laumakis with a 39-yard TO 3. Player strikes (2,196) pass with his team down 6-0 to 4. Rules violations (1,601)give RD the lead for good. RD's 5. George Steinbrenner (1 ,592)Jay Thompson sealed the victory 6. Racism (1,381)with a 35-yard TO return of an 7. Pete Rose gambling case (1,364)interception. 8. Bo Jackson (1,083)Season statistics for Rigid 9. Wrigley Field lights (733)Designators: 10. Pete Rose breaks hit record (578)Passing 'Computer ~e$rel1 ot 650 media sl)i)ljcribers ol Nexis Information ServiceMoody ­85-138 for 1,116 yards, 21 TDs SPORTSReceiving Drug abuse rampant Laumakis ­33 receptions for 635 ----­----­----­----­yards (avg. 19.2), 15 TDs Miscellaneous RD outscored its opponents 214­0 until the championship game The title is AD's 4th consecutive league championship RD was 8-0 this season and is 27­1 over the past 4 years The Observer I Laura Stanton NFL INDIVIDUAL LEADERS NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Quarterbacks Quarterbacks All Com Yds TD tnt Att Com Yds m lnt Montana, S.F. 235 165 2195 17 3 Kelly, Buff. 214 131 1823 16 8 Hebert, N.O. 277 181 2284 14 9 Esiason, Gin. 235 131 1854 15 4 Everett, Rams 320 186 2514 17 12 Moon, Hou. 300 185 2453 15 9 Majkowski, G.B. 379 228 2959 19 15 Kosar, Clev 289 178 2074 14 9 Rypien, Wash. 281 157 2192 14 9 Brister, Pitt. 216 127 1472 7 6 Simms, Giants 228 140 1797 9 9 O'Brien, Jets 339 207 2595 9 13 Miller, All. 291 167 2012 6 2 Marino, Mia. 349 197 2607 16 18 Testaverde, T.B. 302 166 2111 15 14 DeBerg. K.C. 156 103 1282 4 10 Cunni"ham. Phil. 334 179 2181 14 11 McMahon, S.D. 250 139 1733 8 9 Rushers Rushers Att Yds Avg LG TD AIt Yds Avg LG TD Anderson, Chi. 192 870 4.5 53 9 Okoye, K.C. 214 936 4.4 59 8 B.Sanders, Det. 147 757 5.1 31 6 Thomas, Bull. 190 872 4.6 38 4 Bell, Rams 180 756 4.2 46 10 Brooks, Gin. 144 862 6.0 65 5 Hilliard, N.O. 197 722 3.7 25 10 Dickerson, Ind. 179 772 4.3 21 4 Anderson, Giants 215 705 3.3 36 8 Humphrey, Den. 154 607 3.9 40 6 Craig, S.F. 175 683 3.9 27 4 Jacks'n, Raiders 84 570 6.8 92 4 Walker, Mnn. 173 675 3.9 47 4 Stephens, N.E. 147 481 3.3 35 4 Riggs, Wash. 160 669 4.2 58 3 Metcalf. Clev. 123 452 3.7 43 4 Fullwood, G.B. 127 566 4.5 38 5 Warner, Sea. 132 419 3.2 21 2 Receivers Receivers NO Yds Avg LG TD NO Yds Avg LG TD J.Smith, Phoe. 62 778 12.5 31 5 Reed. Buff. 59 879 14.9 78 7 Ellard, Rams 56 1013 18.1 46 6 Blades. Sea. 50 680 13.6 32 4 Sharpe, G.B. 53 867 16.4 79 7 Williams, Sea. 46 337 7.3 25 4 Rice, S.F. 51 1043 20.5 68 13 Hill, Hou. 44 647 14 7 50 4 Sanders. Wash. 51 678 13.3 51 3 Johnson, Den. 42 687 16.4 68 5 Rathman, S.F. 50 415 8.3 36 1 Slaughter, Clev. 41 841 20.5 97 5 Monk, Wash. 49 692 14.1 55 4 Givins, Houston 39 604 15.5 48 3 Carrier. T.B. 45 697 15.5 43 4 A.Miller, S.D. 38 725 19.1 69 5 NBA STANDINGS EASTERN CONFERENCE WESTERN CONFERENCE Tuesday's Games Atlantic Division Midwest Division Late Games Not Included w L Pet GB w L Pet GB Boston 96, Philadelphia 94 Washington 5 2 .714 Utah 4 1 .800 Cleveland 103, New Jersey 92 New York 3 2 .600 1 Denver 3 2 .600 1 Charlotte 130, Orlando 116 Boston 4 3 .571 1 Houston 3 3 .500 1112 Miami 101. Houston 99 New Jersey 3 3 .500 1112 San Antonio 2 3 .400 2 Milwaukee 108, San Antonio 97 Miami 3 4 .429 2 Minnesota 2 4 .333 2112 Minnesota 101, Golden State 98 Philadelphia 2 3 .400 2 Dallas 1 4 .200 3 Dallas at Seattle, (n) Central Division Charlotte 1 5 .167 3 1/2 Denver at Los Angeles Clippers, (n) Indiana 4 0 1.000 Pacific Division Chicago at Sacramento, (n) Chicago 4 2 .667 1 L.A. Lakers 5 1 .833 New York at Portland, (n) Milwaukee 4 2 .667 1 Portland 4 2 .667 1 Wednesday's Games Detroit 3 3 .500 2 Seattle 3 3 .500 2 New Jersey at Boston, 7:30p.m. Atlanta 2 3 .400 2 112 Phoenix 2 2 .500 2 Charlotte at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. Cleveland 2 4 .333 3 Sacramento 2 3 .400 21/2 Golden State at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Orlando 2 5 .286 3 112 Golden State 2 4 .333 3 Miami at Detroit, 7:30 p.m.  
SPORTS CALENDAR  •  ·  .  .  
Sports Calendar Home games in all CAPS Wednesday Men's tennis at DuPont ITCA Clay Court Championships  Court Championships Friday Men's tennis at DuPont ITCA Clay Court Championships Hockey vs. ST. CLOUD STATE, 7:30p.m.  Milwaukee Volleyball at Western Michigan Invitational Saturday Men's tennis at DuPont ITCA Clay  Invitational Hockey vs. ST. CLOUD STATE, 7:30p.m. Wrestling at St. Louis Open Football at Penn State  Monday Men's cross country NCAA Championships (Mike O'Connor) Tuesday Volleyball vs. Bowling Green  


STUDENT ACTIYITIJ!S__B OARD: ·sal Hnytlling• starring John Cusack: tonight and tomorrow in Carroll Rud. at 9:00 and 11:15-$1 admission 
For all Sophomores-"A Night in Soho'-Chameleon Room in Haggar from 7:30-8:30-come socialize and have some goodies!! Informational Meetings for •Heighboring Tolents• co~ing soon-Wed., Dec. 6 at HO and Tues.J Dec. 5 at SMC­get your friends and ideas together! 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
TaeKwonDo/Hapkido Club will meet 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays in Room 219 Rockne Memorial. Sixth degree black belt Phil Hong will teach the classes. Beginners are welcome. 
NVA deadlines are Wednesday, Nov. 15 for advanced scuba, table tennis, water lacrosse and squash. For more information call 239-6100. 
The NO Boxing Club will hold a mandatory meeting for all 1990 Bengal Bouts participants, Thursday, Nov. 16 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium and the Joyce ACC. Enter Gate 2. 
Sherri Orlosky, a preseason All-American from Baltimore's Atholton High School, has signed a national let­ter of intent to play basketball for the Notre Dame women's basketball team. Kristen Knapp of Santa Barbara, Calif. signed with the Irish last week. 
Used hockey equipment will be sold frm 8 to 10 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 16, at the Joyce ACC. Cash and schecks only will be accepted. 
The Observer page 15 
Miami distracted by Notre Dame 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) ­Miami Hurricanes coach Dennis Erickson says one of his major concerns about Saturday's game against San Diego State is Notre Dame. 
The seventh-ranked Hurricanes (8-1) play host to San Diego State (6-3-1) on Saturday. Miami then concludes its regular season a week later at home against top-ranked Notre Dame. 
''There are a lot of distrac­tions, obviously, with the Notre Dame game looming," Erickson said Tuesday. 
"We can sit here and say, 'Gosh, I'd better not mention that game because this and that will happen.' But our play­ers know that on the 25th they're playing Notre Dame. 
"So we talk about it, and it's obviously a concern." The showdown with the de­
fending national champion Fighting Irish, who handed Miami its only loss last season, is just one of the potential dis­tractions this week. Another is bowl talk. 
Prospective pairings have the Hurricanes bound for the Sugar Bowl to face unbeaten Alabama. Erickson declined to comment on the possibility of that matchup. 
"The bowl speculation, to me, is really the last thing on our minds," Erickson said. "San Diego is first, and then Notre Dame probably is the most im­portant game regardless of what bowl we go to." 
A Miami loss to San Diego State -a four-touchdown un­derdog -could change the bowl picture and would elimi­nate the Hurricanes from the national championship race. 
"All I can tell our team is that if we look ahead to Notre Dame, we'll get beat," Erickson said. "We sure don't want that to happen. 
"The fear of losing this week is enough motivation for our people to focus in on it." 
The Hurricanes will be strong candidates for the national title if they win their final three games and Notre Dame beats No. 2 Colorado in the Orange Bowl. When Erickson was asked if he has thought about possible national championship scenarios, he said, "I just read what you guys write. It's good enough for me. 
"I know one thing we've got to do is beat San Diego." 
Miami lost control of its own destiny in the national champi­onship race when Florida State beat the Hurricanes 24-10 on Oct. 28. 
Paterno 
continued from page 20 
On the passing offense: "They have a passing game when they need it. They don't need it because their running game is so dominant." 
On Chris Zorich: "lie's one of the greatest nose guards we've played against. A very, very natural down guy who has great balance, plays pressure well and has great judgment when he sees the ball as to how to get there the best way." 
On the defensive linemen: "They're very big and disci­plined, and they don't make mistakes. They have big-play people , down, which is unusual. 
On the secondary: ''I've never seen a secondary that de­fends the run or tackles as well as Notre Dame. They're outstanding." 
Paterno evidently is not the only coach impressed with some of Notre Dame's players. 
Domi no's Pizza named Rice as one of the 10 finalists for the Coach's Choice Award, a trophy given to the top player in the country as chosen by a poll of the nation's coaches. 
Awards are given to the best players in Division I, 1-A, II and III. Barry Sanders won the Division I prize last season in the award's inaugural season. 
Other finalists include Air Force quarterback Dee Dowis, Baylor linebacker James Francis, West Virginiz quarter­back Major Harris, Alabama linebacker Keith McCants, Oregon quarterback Bill Musgrave, Florida running back Emmitt Smith, Penn State running back Blair Thomas, Indiana running back Anthony Thompson and Houston quarterback Andre Ware. 
Another Irish athlete came up short in the running for a national award last week, but that certainly shouldn't di­minish the accomplishments outfielder Dan Peltier made in his three years with the Notre Dame baseball team. 
Louisiana State's Ben McDonald, now with the Baltimore Orioles, won the Golden Spikes Award. Peltier was a finalist for the award, college baseball's equivalent of the Heisman Trophy. 
Peltier batted .453 for the Irish last season with 15 home runs and 90 runs batted in, leading the team to its first NCAA tournament appearance since 1970. 
More amazingly for Peltier, who holds the school's career batting average 
Now a Notre Dame senior and member of the Texas Rangers organization, Peltier became the first Fighting Irish baseball player to earn All­America status since Rich Gonski in 1964. 
The Clifton Park, N.Y., resident also was a two-time Academic All-America selection. 
Notre Dame was ranked 17th in the Associated Press pre­season top 25 basketball poll. Several college basketball publications like the Irish even more than that. 
Campus Communications has Notre Dame eighth in its pre­season prognostications and the U.S. Basketball Writers Association has the Irish lOth . 
Most of the other magazines put Notre Dame somewhere in the second 10. The Irish are ranked 15th by Sport and Inside Sports and are picked 19th by The Sporting News. 
Dick Vitale's Basketball and Streeet and Smith have two of the few top 20 lists that do not include Notre Dame. 
Vitale who has the Irish 27th, calls Notre Dame's schedule the toughest in the country. 
The Irish have road dates with eight of last season's NCAA tournament teams: Indiana, Creighton, LaSalle, Rutgers, Louisiana State, Duke Syracuse and DePaul. 


Passing the CPA Exam Open House -Half Price Course Drawing -Job Hunting Guide -Refreshments Served 
Wednesday, October 15 
6:00p.m. 
Sarin Room -LaFortune Center 
CONVISER DUFFY« MILLER 
1-800-274-EXAM 
... 

The Observer 
AP Photo 
Wayne Cooper and Jerome Kersey of the Portland Trail Blazers battled the New York Knicks in NBA action Tuesday night. In other action, the Charlotte Hornets earned their first victory of the season. 
Bird's jumper paces Celtics to win 
IIAHTFORD, Conn. (AP) ­Larry Hird's 10-foot jumper with one second left gave the Boston Celtics a 96-94 victory over the Philadelphia 76ers Tuesday night. 
Bird, who scored only 10 points in the game, took a pass from John Bagley out of a scramble and hit a jumper from the baseline. 
Bird's last-second basket stopped a Sixers rally that saw them come from five points down early in the fourth quar­ter to tie the score twice in the last two minutes. 
Charles Barkley, who had 16 points. tied the score 94-94 when he hit a short turnaround jumper with 27 seconds remaining. 
Kevin Mcllale's 15 points led six Celtics in double figures. Bagley and Kevin Gamble had 14 points; Dennis Johnson and Ed Pinckney added 12 and Bird had 10. 
Hem Anderson led the Sixers with 23 points and Hersey Hawkins added 17. 
In the first half, the Celtics opened a 30-21 after consecu­tive baskets by Pinckney and Hobert Parish. 
The Sixers mounted a come­back in the second quarter be­hind the shooting of Anderson, who scorPd 10 points in the pe-
Sawyer 
continued from page 20 
pll~asing to Schafer is the fact 
that his defensive skills com­
plement his scoring prowess. 
"Dan leads the team in open icc~ hits and is second on the team in blocked shots. lie's given up the puck a few times for breakaways. but just about everybody on the team has done that," Schafer remarks. 
Sawyer takes pride in deliver­ing a clean hard cheek on an opponent. At 5-11 and 205 pounds, he can really deliver a wallop to most of the smaller forwards who come cruising his way. 
"I don't go out of my way to take somPbody's head ofT," as­surc~s Sawyer, "But nothing fmds better than making a big hit on somebody, I~SJWdally if thpy're not expecting it." 
Sawyer is quick to stress that he loves Notre Dame, saying that there is no place that he'd rather btL In speaking with riod. 
The Sixers started the rally when Barkley sank two free throws and capped it when Anderson hit consecutive jumpers to tie the game 49-49 with 3:28 left in the half. 
Anderson gave the Sixers a brief 54-53 lead with 50 sec­onds left when he completed a three-point play. The Celtics re­gained the lead when Bagley sank two free throws with one second left. 
Hornets 130, Magic 116 CHAHLOTTE. N.C. -Hookie 
J.H. Heid had 25 points and 20 rebounds, leading the Charlotte llornets to their first victory of the season, 130-116 over the expansion Orlando Magic Tuesday night. 
Heid started a 17-4 scoring charge with an offensive re­bound basket with six minutes left in the game. 
The 6-foot-9 rookie from North Carolina scored eight more points in the next four minutes as Charlotte took con­trol of the game. Before the surge, neither team led by more than four points. 
Charlotte, the last winless team in the NBA, twice built leads of 26 in the final period. Kelly Tripucka scored 24 points, while Hex Chapman 
added 23 and Dell Curry 18 for 
the Hornets, who lost their first 
five games. 
For the Magic, Jerry Reynolds scored 22 points and rookie Nick Anderson 19. 
Cavaliers 103, Nets 92 
EAST RUTHERFOHD, N.J. ­Craig Ehlo scored 19 of his game-high 23 points in the sec­ond half and Hon Harper added 22 as the Cleveland Cavaliers pulled away in the third quarter and defeated the New Jersey Nets 103-92 Tuesday night. 
The win was the second straight for the injury-ridden Cavaliers, who opened the sea­son with four straight losses. 
Trailing 60-59 midway through the third quarter, the Cavaliers put together a 29-7 spurt for an 88-67 lead. Harper, who also had 12 re­bounds, started the burst with a layup and Tree Rollins added two free throws. 
Chris Morris hit a free throw for the Nets, but Harper drove the lane for a dunk and Ehlo made a short jumper, giving the Cavaliers a 67-61 advantage. A basket by Joe Barry Carroll pulled New Jersey within four, but Cleveland scored 21 of the next 25 points to break the game open. 
Wednesday, November 15, 1989 
Crew team captures season's last regatta 
What better way to spend a gorious 
fall afternoon than rowing on tlw St. Joeseph Hiver'? 
For the Rowing Club. which may call the river a "second home" with all the time they spend on it, Sunday was exceptional as it won the last rc~gatta of the year. The Irish brought honw 

the first place trophy at the !lead of 
The Elk by beating out a large liPid of MIKE KAMRADT 
teams including squads from Club Corner 
Michigan, Michigan St.. Purdue~. and 
the extremely talented team from 
Cincinnatti University. 
"Everyone rowed rnally well," said dub ~m~sid1~nt Brian 
Lapps. "We couldn't have asked for bPttPr results." 
The Irish men won the heavyweight four and finislwd 
second in the heavyweight eight. The four was coxswained 
by Paula Lukats while Steve Trzeciak, Dave Mnrcario, Cosar 
Gonzalez, and Greg Delauny provided the manpower. Tlw 
men also made a strong showing in the lightweight division 
as they won the four and eight races. 
The women also did well in their share of the days 14 races. The heavyweight four won as Monique Precheur guided the boat of Kendall Dorminey, Meg Taylor, Jenny Sievers, and Kathy Webb. The lightweight boat also fol­lowed precedent for the day as it took home a first place. The novice boats for the men and women gave strong showings as they both placed third. 
"It's hard to predict spring results from the fall." ex­plained Lapps. "This looked to be a rebuilding year. but it turned out to be a good season. Hopefully it will carry over to the spring." 
The WaterpoJo (Jub won its own tournament over the weekend, going 3-0 against teams from Eastern Michigan, Southern Illinois and Miami (Ohio). The Irish slipped by Eastern 14-12 and then beat SIU 14-11. The Irish once again tallied 14 goals in a 14-9 win over Miami. 
"Our continuity wasn't there," said club president Anthony Baerlocher. "But we showed in dose situations that we wanted to win and knew how to win." 
Jim 0' llalleron led the Irish in goals over the weekend while Mike Manning and Greg Garczynski also contributed key offensive inputs. Overall though. the Irish didn't play up to their capabilities. 
The Irish can't afford to be at anything but their bPst this weekend as they will compete at Northwestern in the Midwest Championships for the first time in recent mem­ory. The Irish will be in the same bracket as midwest pow­ers Minnesota, Northwestern. and Indiana. After the round-robin competition in that bracket, the Irish will hope to advance and play the favored Wolverines of Michigan. 
"This is a breakthrough point for our club," said Baerlocher. "Just being in the tournament will give us bet­ter recognition and a better reputation." 
After a long season of bruising competition, the Hughy Club wound up the season on a high note as it dPfeated Ball St. 32-0 on the A side and triumphed 1:{-4 in the B con­test. The victories were well received by the club as it has had a number of hard-fought matches this year where~ they fell short. 
"It's sort of a boost," said club presidtmt Mike Smiggen. "It will give us a good look at what we can do for the spring season. " 
Notre Dame experienced a change of pace as they seorPd quickly in the first half. The~ Irish moved out to 16-0 lead at the half and never looked back. Sean McNarnant had an­other outstanding game with two tries and two penalty kicks. Mike Moore also had two tries as did Jim DudlPy, who came off the bench late in game for an injurc~d playPr and scored twice in 5 minutes. 
In the B game the Irish played especially well considering the fact that they had many players who were playing for the first or second time. 

SOPHOMORES 
!Jol( 't~t s>ta.cl «1/tltoa.t alf,?tlttirj to rio ciW'tirj 
JalflOF P~e-lft~ U/ufelfcl 
JOIN THE JPW SOPHOMORE COMMITTEE 
Applications Now Available in the Office of Students Activities (3rd Floor Lafortune) Due Thursday, Nov. 16 by 5 P_M_ 
Schafer. it is obvious that this is true: in fact. it seems that Sawyer practically showed up at his doorstep. 
"It's funny how all this un­folded," Schafer says, "Two year's ago Dan's father called me and said. 'I have a hockey player here who belongs at Notre Dame.' Frankly I wa suspicious. as New Jersey is not exactly a hotbed of hockey, but Dan Sawyer has obviously learned the game well." 
Sawyer has played a crucial role in the revival of a hockey team which is 5-1 after a suf­fering through a dismal 10-26­2 season last year. Schafer ap­pears to be looking forward to three more years with Sawyer anchoring his defense. 
"Dan is a really nice guy," says Schafer, "He's a real gentleman and we're certainly glad to have him." 
Wednesday, November 15, 1989 The Observer page 17 
Vets control 
UNLV, Marymount set first round of for high-scoring game
Virginia Slims 
Last year, Loyola Marymount scoring games in NCAA history, 
was No. 1 in the nation in scar-beating U.S. International 162­
NEW YORK (APl -The ing. This season, Nevada-Las 144 on Jan. 7 and winning a heroines of the "geriatric gen-Vegas is No. 1 in the nation. rematch 181-150 on Jan. 31. eration" took the spotlight at These two high-scoring teams "They play a unique style of the Virginia S I i m s help begin the Big Apple play," Tarkanian said. Championships on Tuesday Nation a I In vita t ion "Nobody in the country plays night. Tournament Wednesday night like them.... We get most of 
After the teen-agers posted in a game that promises a few our points out of our defense. victories on Monday night, the stiff necks in the audience. They get theirs strictly on of­older set took charge Tuesday, If Loyola wins, it'll be a big fense." with 33-year-old Martina upset. If the two teams don't LSU gets to unveil its new in­Navratilova leading the way score 250 points between them, side-outside combination into the quarterfinals of the it might be an even bigger against Southern Mississippi. season-ending tennis tourna-upset. Sophomore guard. Chris ment. "The way they get up and Jackson, second in the country 
Navratilova, the oldest player down the court and shoot the in scoring last season and only in the elite 16-player singles ball, there's going to be a lot of the second freshman ever field and the No. 2 seed, ousted scoring," UNLV coach Jerry named All-America, should 1H-year-old Mary Joe Tarkanian said. "We're not go-have a lot more room to roam Fnrnandez 6-2, 6-3; fifth-ing to try and slow the game with the addition of 7-1 fresh­seeded Zina Garrison, 25, up. We're going to run." man Shaquille O'Neal and 7-0 stopped 19-year-old Helen The rest of Wednesday Prop 48 sophomore Stanley Kelesi of Canada 6-3, 6-1; and night's NIT schedule has Roberts. No. 7 Helena Sukova, 24, de-Southern Mississippi at second-"Our overall vision, from this fnated Raffaella Rcggi, 23, of ranked Louisiana State, day on, is to try to win a na­Italy 6-3, 7-5. Richmond at No. 19 North tional championship," Coach 
Monday's winners were 15-AP Photo Carolina State, Ohio State at Dale Brown said. 
year-old Monica Selcs, 17 -year-Zina Garrison led a group of veterans with wins in the opening round of DePaul, Air Force at California N.C. State is coming off a 22­old Arantxa Sanchez and 19-the Virginia Slims tourney in New York. Top-seeded Steffi Graf will and Alabama-Birmingham at 9 season in which the Wolfpack year-old Gabriela Sabatini. complete the first round of play Wednesday. Kansas. reached the Final 16 of the 
The first round will be com-Thursday night, it's North NCAA tournament, but Coach 
plet1~d Wednesday night when slow the net-rushing: tactics of Sabatini, the defending cham-Carolina A&T at No. 25 St. Jim Valvano doesn't dwell in 
top-seeded Steffi Graf meets Navratilova, the No. 2 seed pion, has never lost to Kelesi in John's, and Houston at Wichita the past. That may be good 
J an a Novo t n a of seeking her fifth title on the three career meetings. But she State. news for Richmond. 
Czechoslovakia and No. 8 Madison Square Garden court. had her hands full through the The quarterfinals will be "On balance, if I were going 
Manw~la Maleeva of Bulgaria Roaming the entire floor with first six games. Six times she played Friday and Saturday against my club this year as 
takes on Australia's Hana fluid grace, always advancing reached break point, only to nights with the semifinals and opposed to last year, I'd be a 
Mandlikova. to the net for putaway volleys have Kelesi slam the door shut. finals Nov. 22-24 at Madison lot less concerned as an oppo­
The tall and talented Sukova. or easy overheads, Navratilova But in the seventh game, the Square Garden in New York. nent," Valvano said. 
runnerup in the Slims kept the pressure on the right-two fought through four deuces At Nevada-Las Vegas, 6-foot­DePaul coach Joey Meyer 
Championships in 19H5, rode handcr from Miami. before Garrison closed out the 7 junior college transfer Larry faces the season without 
her powerful serve to easily "I really zeroed in on the ball service break for a 4-3 lead. Johnson joins four returning Terence Green and Stanley 
grab the opening set. Then and concentrated very hard," Kelesi, who turns 20 on starters in what may be the Brundy, both graduated, and 
Heggi sped out to a 4-0 lead in Navratilova said. "I try not to Wednesday, a day before best team Tarkanian ever has Brad Niemann, out for the sea­
thP second. building her advan-anticipate the ball but play the Garrison celebrates 26th birth-coached. At least, Tarkanian son with a back injury. It's not 
tage to 5-1. angles because she has such day, won only one more game likes his chances. a soothing prospect. 
But Sukova reeled off the great passing shots. I try to re-the rest of the way as Garrison "We have the ingredients to "We have a lot of puzzle 
next six games to close out the act to the ball, and I did that began dominating. be a great team," Tarkanian pieces, and it's not all put to­
victory. very well." "Her balls are more bark said. gether yet," he said. 
"I got up 5-1 and I started When Fernandez was able to than bite," Garrison said of And, he likes Johnson, who Ohio State will be without 
saying to myself. 'I can win the keep the left-bander pinned to Kelesi. "She hits really early so led the U.S. team to a gold starting forward Treg Lee, who 
second set."' Heggi said. "I the back of the court, she found it seems to have a lot of pace. medal victory over the Soviet will sit out a one-game NCAA 
should have takrm chances, but herself being passed with preci-But she hits like most of the Union in the World University suspension for playing in an 
I waited tlwre for her to make sion groundstrokes down the girls." Games. unsanctioned summer league 
mistakes." line or cross-court. "The balls seemed really big "He's the best player I've ever game. 
Instead. Sukova rushed the "I get the geriatric genera-to me," Garrison said. had," Tarkanian said. Air Force goes into its game 
net and HPggi rushPd her shots, ton," Navratilova said of the Kelesi took Garrison to deuce Loyola Marymount, led by the against California untested and 
so much so that Sukova will crowd's support. four times to begin the second nation's scoring and rebound-undaunted. 
fan~ tlw winner of the Graf-Navratilova's quarterfinal foe set before the Houston native ing leader Hank Gathers, is Kansas coach Roy Williams is 
Novotna match in th1~ quarter-will be Seles, a native of held. That was the last time coming off consecutive 20-vic-looking forward to the 
finals. Yugoslavia who now lives in Kelesi came dose as Garrison tory seasons. The Lions aver-Alabama-Birmingham game; 
FPnHtndPz just didn't have Bradenton, Fla. stepped up her attack, taking aged 112.5 points last season he's just not looking forward to 
enough tools or firepower to Garrison, who next will face the net at every chance. and played in the two highest-facing Blazers center Alan Ogg. 
~~:======-~-----=================~ had rolled to a stop, and the 
alert Jim Hawkins picked it up
Dogs 
for Cavanaugh, racing 94 yards continued from page 20 for a touchdown. The extra
1989 December week50V 
said Alumni captain Urban point was again missed, and 
Gillespie. "Also, our offense the Crusaders led 18-0. 
came through when they had
Mon 11 to, and we never gave up. Cavanaugh was not finished, 
Everyone counted us as an though, as quick on the heels of 
......X-14 AS 13 RE. At: S 1 AR 1 S underdog, but we pulled it out." that score, Eric Bailey drove 
In the day's second contest, three yards for another score, 
.......1 oDAY l l ..................................................... Cavanaugh earned its first trip putting Cavanaugh up for good, 
to Notre Dame Stadium since 25-0. 
_ 1967. as the Crusaders
....NEEtJ 10 EARN .llSSS l 
steamrolled over the Pangborn "This team was tired of being
9~ appt. to register Violence 25-0 . doormats," said Cavanaugh 
coach Ken Cotter. "We've had 
..... as a temp for immediate After a scoreless first tremendous support -over 200 fans, a leprechaun, and a band
._....¥/Orlc Qf 8XCif jnn downtOWn quartebr,k Cavanaubgl hd 
;, r' quarter ac Chris Fox ram e turned out at our last game. .....CHICAGO locations,,............... I 12 yards for a touchdown early This was easily our best game I in the second period of play. of the· year. We played with a lot of intensity, but more
·-r&.ey need college ................. The extra point attempt failed
r1 I and Cavanaugh led 6-0. Again, importantly, this team did not ... d f cJ 1 1 1c defenses dominated, as the want to let this opportunity slip 
e u c Q e em p s 0 w0 r away."
score remained 6-0 at the half. "Q S u.1 ord p ron eSS ors • .... The score did not remain 
'1'1' II.. .,. stagnate for long, as Cavanaugh and Alumni, who have already met once this
.... re nep f 1•0n I•S fS arJ cJ ................. 
Cavanaugh came out in the II.. second half and lit up the year, will clash Sunday at 2 
p.m. in the men's Interhall
L.elp 
proverbial scoreboard. In the
98 neraI 0 ff'·c 8 fl • third quarter, Chris Fox again championship game at Notre 
Dame Stadium. 
C ALl 10tJ A'J FOR h 0 RE found his way into the end 
., n IFf zone, and after a stymied two-Cavanaugh (5-0) the
MAT point attempt, Cavanaugh led was 
regular-season champ of the
···--..····' NFOR. ION'............. 12-PO.'angborn was .orce.. d to punt medium-dorm Leahy League at 
in the fourth quarter, kicking 4-0, followed by Alumni (5-1) at 
................ 7 ••••••••••••••••• the ball down to the six yard 3-1. Cavanaugh has won the 
last two meetings, both times 
3 I 2 -372-1'500 
1 
&. e c I,. 0 ,-ce for Tem p 0 ra r ,·e s line of Cavanaugh. However'
rJ JJ the Violence special teams returning interceptions for touchdowns.
•11..-----------------------------------~ failed to down the ball after it 
. -.. 


The Observer Wednesday, November 15, 1989
page 18 
Mark Davis receives NL Cy Young 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Mark tlw fourth reliever to win the Juno 6, the start of his only in­
Davis of the San Diego Padres NL Cy Young, joining Stnvl' consistent period this year. won the National League Cy Bedrosian ( 1987), Bruee Sutter From June h-24. he blew three Young Award on Tuesday, (1979) and Mike Marshall saves in six chances. easily beating Mike Scott of the ( 197 4). Davis is the third San 
Houston Astros. Diego player to win; Handy llis contract nngotiations Jones (1976) and Gaylord Perry with the l'adrns have not gone 
The 29-year-old Davis, who (1978) are tlw othnrs. wnll and Davis could bn tlw led the majors with 44 saves, first Cy Young winnnr to start got 19 first-place votes and Davis was 4-3 with a 1.85 the next season with a diiTerl'nt four seconds for 107 points earned-run average and 92 team. llis agents, Handy and from a 24-member panel of the strikeouts in 92 2-:{ innings and Alan llnndrieks, say tlwre is Baseball Writers Association of hfld a win or a save in 48 of only a 10-pnn~nnt chance he will Ameriea. Scott. the 1986 win­San Diego's 89 vietorins. lie rP-sign with San Dingo. ner, got four firsts, 14 seconds was dominating throughout the and three thirds for 65 points. season and finished just two Davis made $(J00,000 last 
short of Dave Righetti's major­season and didn't have any 
Greg Maddux of the Chicago league n~eorcl for saves and .one bonus dausns for tlw Cy Young. Cubs was third with tlmw sec­short of Bruce Sutter's NL Scott, howtwnr, got $50,000 for onds and eight thirds for 17 rncord. finishing sneond, raising his points. Ornl llershiser of the salary for tlw year to $1.375 Los Angeles Dodgers, the 1988 Davis ronwrtt~d 44 of 48 saw million linduding a $25.000 winner. was tied for fourth opportunities and allowPd just bonus for making tlw All-Star with one first and two thirds 13 of 75 inlwriti'CI runners to tPam). for seven points. along with .loP seorP. liP savnd 12 ganws from Magrann of the St. Louis Sept. 1 on and stranded his fi­Scott. in all. rnadt~ $525,000 
··.,.·,.·
'· Cardinals, who got onl' second nal 19 inherited runners, allow­in bonuses this year. In April lw 
. t "~' 
! 
and four thirds. ing just one of his last 29 to sigrwd a two-yt~ar contract ex­~,,k seore. lk finished the yt~ar with l<'nsion that lwgins in I1J90 and AP Photo Tim Belcher of the Dodgers a stwak of 24 2-3 scoreless in­called for base salaries of and Seott Garrelts of the San nings, and gave up just night $1.95 million. lin pitclwd 205
Michigan coach Bo Schembechler is still holding onto the slim 
Francisco Giants were tied for hits over the span. innings, triggering a $150,000
hope that the Wolverines could win his first-ever national title. 
sixth with four points, followed bonus for Pach of the next two
Notre Dame, Colorado and Alabama must lose for this to happen. 
by Hick Heuschel of the Giants Davis also was dominating at years, and tho All-Star and Cy with three points and Mike the start, beginning the season Young bonuses are rolled ovPr. Bielecki and Mitch Williams of with 17 saves in his first 17 op­making his base salarins
Bo clings to outside 
the Cubs with one point eaeh. portunities. Thn streak was $2.175 million for 1990 and Davis, a free agent, is only broken against Houston on 1991.
hope of national title 
Victim can't identify Sooner players
ANN AHBOH (AP) -It's a As for the long shot, long shot, but Michigan Michigan would then have to coach Bo Schembechler isn't defeat Southern Cal in the NORMAN, Okla. (AP)-A 20-Preston Trimble allowed a re­people were successful. ruling out chances for his Hose Bowl and hope that year-old Oklahoma City woman cess at the woman's request. When lights came on in the first national football somewhere along the way told jurors Tuesday that she She left the stand weeping. bedroom afterward. she said championship. No. 1 Notre Dame, No. 2 couldn't identify her attackers She testified she went to the she heard someone ask 
"It's conceivable," Colorado and No. 4 but un­but said she was raped at least dormitory with a girlfriend, "What's going on hen~'!" Schembechler said in the Big defeated Alabama would three times in the Oklahoma that she drank alcohol in Clay's "Then Nigel eame into my linn Ten eoaches weekly tele­lose. football dormitory on Jan. 21. room and that she was initially of vision ... I said 'What do you phone conference on Coach John Mackovic of The woman testified for grabbed by someone as she think's going on Nigel, they Tuesday, when asked about No. 12 Illinois, whose only about four hours in the first­came out of the bathroom. rapnd me,"' the woman tnsti­
his Wolvnrinns' chances to losses have been to Colorado degree rape trial of former "lie took hold of my shoul­fiPd. take it all. "A lot of circum­and Michigan, said he hadn't Sooner football players dPr. lie took me to the bed­The woman testified during stances have to happen and seen Notre Dame, but called Bernard Hall, Nigel Clay and room, took hold of my zipper cross-nxamination that thorn we have to have a lot of Michigan and Notre Dame Glen Bell. They were charged in and started moving it down were seven to nine pnople in friends vote for us. It's a "terrific teams who can play February in the alleged attack rnal fast," the woman said. She Clay's room the night of the al­real. real long shot. with anybody." on the woman. said she tried unsuccessfully to leged attack. She was not able 
"Our eoncern is to win the Mackovic also said Illinois The woman recounted details get away from the person. to identify more than a handful Big Tnn championship and hasn't given up its hopes of of the evening for the jury of "The next thing I know I was of thl' pnopln in thn room. tlw Hose Bowl. We can't look going to the Rose Bowl. live women and seven men se­on the noor and he was on top She said she wanted to leaw that far ahead now," he That. too, is a long shot. The lected Monday to hear the case of me," she said. the dorm room afterward and added. lllini have to win their next in Cleveland County District The woman said her under­drove away with her girlfriend 
No. 3 Michigan's only loss two games against Indiana Court. During cross-examina­wnar was rnmoved and the at­at one point. But she said her was 24-19 to No. 1 Notre and Northwestern and then tion by defense attorneys for tacker placed a hand over lwr friend insisted on returning to Dame in the season opennr. have Ohio State defeat the three men, she was some­mouth and nose and "then he the dorm and she relentnd 
The Wolverines, who took Michigan. times vague in her answers and started trying to rape me." partly because she was in no over sole possession of first often said she eouldn't remem­She said two pnople tried un­condition to drive. place in the Big Ten with a Ohio State still could get to ber or did not know the infor­successfully to rape her. A third During cross-examination by 24-10 vie tory at Illinois last the Hose Bowl by winning its mation sought. person was successful, she Hall's attorney, Fred Shaeffer. Saturday, still have last two games and have The woman, who has since said. She said she wasn't sure if the woman said she never used Minnesota and Ohio State to Illinois lose or tie one of its married, sobbed some and at a fourth person was successful, the telephone in Clay's room play. last two. one point District Judge but said attaeks by two more after the attack. 
r.lll.ll.ll.ll.ll.ll.ll.ll.ll.ll.ll·ll·ll·ll.ll.ll.ll.ll.ll.lll 
Grand Slam. The tournament is ble team member Ken Flach. 
the only national collegiate played on clay. "It will be a tough tourna­
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
.I The Becker I
ment for David," said Championships which will be Thn 32-player field includes Bayliss. "He is going to have to ­held Nov.17-19 at the Hod such sibling stars as Carl get used to playing on clay, and Laver Tennis Center in Hilton Chang, the older brother of the he needs to play with a little llead,S.C. I>iLucia, the No. 26 1988 French Open Champion more patience because of the 
ICPA Reviewl 
collegiate player, is one of 32 and ranked No. 32 nationally surface. David is quick and ­player who will compete in the and Doug Flach, the younger powerful so he should be able seeond leg of the Collegiate player of USA's Davis Cup dou-to make the adjustments." 
. .I Course -I 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
I will be having a I I presentation on i
. 
= November 15th i
. -­
I at 6:00pm I 
I in the i
. ­
i Montgomery Theatre ! i at LaFortune. !
.= i­
i ! 
i Come see how we can ! 
.i -i
= prepare you for the i i CPA Exam i 
i••••••••••n•n•••••••n•••••••n••••••••••n••••n•n••••l 

Wednesday, November 15, 1989 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
9 a.m. -5 p.m. University Libraries Book Sale, Hesburgh Library Concourse. 
12:10 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, lloly Cross House. 
8:10 p.m. ND/SMC Theatre presents, "Three Sisters," ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Wednesday 
3 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical engineering lecture, "Far-Field Noise Generated by Rockets," by Sally Mcin­erny, Cal State-Long Beach, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:20 p.m. Physics lecture, "Zzzzzz," by Barry Barish, California Institute of Technology, Room 118 Nieuwland Hall. 
4:30 p.m. German and Russian Language Department presents Heinz Keuhn on German Catholic writers, Hes­burgh Library Lounge. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Baked Cod Roast Turkey Stir Fry Beef Baked Ham Fettuchini Alfredo Shrimp Stir Fry Speidano Romany Deli Bar 

26 Kidnapper of 36 What inspired 54 Gibbons Helen Watt 
55 Sluggish 27Warn 
38 Possesses 56-Ben Adhem 28 Passover feast 
41 Scholarship 58 Former ruler of 29"Common given to Sen. IranSense" author Bradley 60Gioom31 Certain jet 42 Mud hen, e.g. 61 Arthur of the structures courts
32 Catchers' needs 47 In the course of 62 Kind of light 
33 Companion of 
49 Burns slightly 
each 64 Author Yutang 52 Rural fence 
34 Showed a 65 Charlemagne's program again 53 Old card game dom. 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\\f.-~\1--lG ~~ Pc.~ GAA~I\'1 ~~1\'1 ~~£1<5£\:) IS t>­I<EAL ~\l\S~CE. WJW /1..\-\ t G0\1-i~ TO G8" UP TO 
\We. R.CX>R ? 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
ACROSS 
1 Elec. unit 4 Spines 9lnsectphase 
14 Zodiacal sign 15 Me. town 16 U.S.-Can. 
defensive air command 11 Periodical item 20 Acronym for an aircraft 21 Solid: Comb. form 22 Men and boys 23 Bakery employees 25 U.S. econ. figure 21 Viper 
30 Black cuckoo 31 Visionary 35 Part of L.C.D. 37 "Of -ISing" 39 Split 40 Newspaper 
bigwig 43 Clair or 
Descartes 44lnnkeeper 45 "Ad-per 
aspera" (Kan. motto) 
46"Don't-me" (1775 U.S. flag statement) 
48 Faulkner's "­
Lay Dying" 50 With: Prefix 51 Slander 52 Drink greedily 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

12 Strong wind 13 Shelley products ..,..,....,.., 18 Ring name ::::+:;+.::+::EF-1 19 Sprouted again 24 Inspector Clouseau's servant 
:+::+=-F.-I 11 Remarque's "-of Triumph" 
54 Nabokov heroine 57"-peace" 59 Muscat is its capital 63 Book source 66 Conceal, as goods, in law 67 Author Horatio 68 Letter after pi 69 Hurled 70 Frankfurt's state 71 Understanding 
DOWN 
1 Donation to the poor 2 Gist 3 Kelly's possum 4 Dickens's pen name 5 Originated 6 Remorse 7 Joints injured by Namath 8 Emulate a hawk I Chant 10 "L'etat c'est 
BILL WATTERSON 
-rnt.RE.S NCi />.~tT\{\I{G ON i\IE CE\L\~6 1tl~\ 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
r C.c:JJLt> t.'JEN CL\t"-S UP. 
\{Qt.l "-tti r SUPPoSED TO lX::l ~~ ~E~ WI-\£N l"l'o\ "I"Q"PF£D ~ nit. 
CEIL\1-iG ~ IT's 11>\~SS\&LE. 
JAY HOSLER 
"So! ... You must be the one they call 'The Kid."' 



s 2 
Sports
page 20 Wednesday, November 15, 1989 
Coleman emerging as NO tennis force 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
On a rostPr that boasts the No. 26 player in collegiate ten­nis and a No. 2 playnr who was a two-time Argentinian na­tional agn group champion, freshman Chuck Coleman has the Notw Dame tennis world a buzz with excitement upon the conclusion of the Irish fall sea­son at the Wisconsin Invitational. 
Coleman, Notre Dame's top 19H9 recruit, has been the shining star of the challenging fall season. Coleman who plays at the No.3 singles position sparkled in the Wisconsin Invitational where he stunned Northwestern's Steve llerdoiza, the No. 14 player in college tennis, in two sets 7-5, 6-4. 
"It was my best match of the fall," said Coleman who posted a 11-5 cumulative fall record. "llerdoiza is a big hitter and I just tried to take away the pace on the ball. I tried to stick to my game plan and didn't give him a target. I mixed it up and tried to make him hit a lot of balls and luckily he missed some." 
"Chuck followed his gameplan to the letter which is very hard to do," said Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss. "Chuck is as fast as anyone in collegiate tennis. lie runs everything down. lie sliced it back a lot, kept it low and hit it particu­larly to the forehand." 
The Wisconsin Invitational reflected the fortune of Notre Dame's fall season-mixed re­sults. Notre Dame tied for third in the four-team tournament ynt the Irish tind with No. 15th Northwestern Wildcats. The Irish wern without the services of No. 1 player Dave DiLucia. who was suffering from shin splints. As a result, Notre Dame was forced to elevate each player up one spot in the singles competition. 
Walter Dolhare continued his less than spectacular fall play at the No.1 position where he fell to Wisconsin's Mark Schwartz. 7-5, 6-3. Dolhare's fall smtson has fallen short of expectations. Dolhare, the No.2 single player, has posted a 7-9 rneord. including two losses in the Invitational. 
"Walter can play better than hn has in the fall," explained Bayliss. "Walter will bring bet­tnr things in the spring. He doesn't have the same flash as last year." 
With hopes of national prominence going , the Irish doubles play is a major concern for Bayliss's squad for the 1990 spring season. According to Bayliss, this is the one area of the Notre Dame team that unquestionably needs to be im­proved if the Irish are to have a successful season. Bayliss has shuffled the doubles lineup the nntire fall with the intent of establishing three solid teams. 
"Our doubles has to get bet­ter." said Bayliss of his three doubles teams that compiled a 14-14 fall record. "We have not played well at all. We have not been fundamentally sound and we are not returning well and getting enough first serves in. We have to focus on an atten­tion to detail." 
NOTES: The Notre Dame men's tennis coaching staff has added a new member to the team. Brian Kalbas has joined Bayliss as an assistant coach. Last year, Kalbas was an inte­gral part of the 1988-1989 Irish squad. Kalbas, who played primarily at the No. 3 position in his final year, is the coach of the"B" team and as­sists in the recruiting chores. 
"Brian has been a tremendous help to our team this year," said Bayliss. "As a coach, he has already made a great contribution to Notre Dame tennis. He helps the players through their struggling times. And he is the best motivator by example. I can't say enough about what he means to our program." 
Notre Dame's No. 1 player Dave DiLucia received an at­large bid to the Du Pont National Clay Court 
see TENNIS I page 18 
The Observer I Trey Raymond Alumni edged Off-Campus in lnterhall football Sunday to advance to the championship game. 
Crusaders, Dogs in lnterhall final 

By DAVID DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The semifinal round of the 1989 men's Interhall football playoffs was full of sur­prises, as Cavanaugh decimated Pangborn 25-0 and Alumni edged Off-Campus 16-8 in overtime, earning the teams the right to battle for the championship. 
The first game of the day was an exciting spectacle, as Alumni and Off-Campus waged a defensive campaign, with the Alumni de­fense coming through in the squeeze. Play seesawed back and forth in the first half, as neither team could mount a sustained of­fensive drive. 
However, Alumni, with its usual flair for dramatics, opened the second half with a bang, as tight end Jack Donoghue hauled in a Jim Passinault pass at the Off-Campus 35­yard line, juked several defenders and flew into the end zone for a score. Jim Passinault added the two-point attempt, putting the Dogs up 8-0. 
For the next 15 minutes, neither team moved the ball effectively. But midway through the fourth quarter, on second and twenty-five, the Crime offense came up with a 
much-needed big play, setting up tailback 
Dave Cane's 13 yard touchdown run on a 
sweep to the left side. Cane tacked on the 
two-point conversion, tying the game H-H. 
Time ran out with the score tied at eight, 
sending the game into sudden-death over­
time. In sudden death, each team was given 
four attempts to score from the 10-yard line. 
Inspired by their defensive pnrformanee. 
Off-Campus elected to defend first. but 
Alumni drove to a fourth and goal on the five 
yard line. But just as doom loomed on the 
Dogs' horizon, Off-Campus was called for 
pass interference, giving Alumni a first-and­
goal on the two. On the next play, tailback 
Dave Ludwig swept around left tackle for six 
points, and again for a successful two-point 
conversion. 
Alumni's offense had put the Dogs up 16-8, 
but it was up to the Dog defense to preserve 
the win. The Alumni defense proved more 
than worthy to the task at hand, as an 
incompletion and two smothered running 
plays finished the Crime's season at the four-yard line. 
"Off-Campus played with a lot of class," 
see DOGS I page 17 

Paterno can't locate any Irish weakness 
Lou Holtz has achieved legendary status for his ability to tout the abilities of opposing teams. but the f'ighting Irish coach may have met his match in Joe Paterno. 
In his weekly conference call, Paterno, whose Penn State team hosts Notre Dame on Saturday, said this year's Irish group was "one of the Steve Megargee 
greatest teams ever to play college football." Paterno analyzed nearly ev-Irish Items ery facet of the top-ranked Irish and could not come up with a weakness anywhere. 
On Raghib "Rocket" Ismail: "He's the best kick return player I've ever seen, and he may be the best one in the country today, including the pros. And we've played against Timmy Brown too." 
On Anthony Johnson: "I think he's the best fullback in 
the country bar none." On Ricky Watters: "Tremendous breakaway potential." On Tony Rice: "If not the best quarterback in the coun­
try, certainly one of the two or three best." 
On Derek Brown: "f'ast enough to be a split end. lie can beat you if you get careless with any of their outside peo­ple." 
On the Irish offensive line: "Superb." 
see PATERNO I page 15 
Sawyer making impact with Irish 
Freshman putting possible pro career on hold for now 
By KEN TYSIAC 
hockey some day, but he has Sports Writer put those wishes on the back burner for the moment. 
There are less than five min­"I probably wasn't ready to utes remaining in a tight make the jump to the pros y11t," hockey game between Notre says Sawyer, who hails from Dame and Michigan Dearborn. Kinnelton, New Jersey, "While I The Wolves lead 4-3, but the .' was in high school, I played ju­Irish are on the power play. ,~ nior hockey against some 
Freshman Dan Sawyer winds pretty good competition, but it up to take a whack at a rolling would still have been too big a puck at the blue line. He drives jump for me to make, even if I a low, hard slapshot toward ~ was to play in the minor the Dearborn net, and right leagues.
Dan Sawyer
wing Mike Curry manages to "If possible, pro hockey is my get his stick on the puck. He de­sock 'em defenseman," praises goal, as it is for most hockey flects it into the net, and the Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer, players. But here at Notre score is tied. "He's got a good, hard, low Dame I'll still have a degree to 
Sawyer isn't finished yet. Less shot, and added to that, he fall back on if I don't make it in than one minute later, he finds knows that the puck ultimately professional hockey." himself with the puck at the top is to end up in or near the Since he came to Notre Dame, of the left face-off circle. He goal." Sawyer hasn't done anything to fires a snapshot toward the Schafer is not the only one to make the Flames regret draft­goal, and beats Dearborn recognize this. The Calgary ing him. In fact, he has scored goalie Hob Church on the short Flames of the NHL also showed five goals and added two as­side to give the Irish a 5-4 lead that they appreciate Sawyer's sists to lead all Irish defensll­which they will not relinquish. talents when they drafted him men with seven points in just 
Welcome to college hockey, in the ninth round of this past six games. But even more more Dan Sawyer. year's amateur draft. Sawyer "Dan is just a good rock 'em, wishes to play professional see SAWYER I page 16 
-




