

VOL. XXII, NO. 91 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1989 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
'Meet the Candidates Night' is held at SMC 
By BRIGID BRENNAN 
News Staff 
Diversity and security were the primary issues addressed by both campaign tickets during the Saint Mary's "Meet the Candidates Night" Monday night at Haggar Parlor. 
The McGowan ticket consists of Shannon McGowan running for student body president; Debbie Neiman, for vice pres­ident for academic affairs; and Kathy Sullivan, for vice presi­dent for student affairs. 
Throughout the debate, the candidates emphasized several issues, including student in­volvement and open communi­cation between Saint Mary's students, faculty members and Notre Dame students. Distri­bution of security newsletters was also suggested. 
The ticket's campaign slogans include, "Waddle you do without us?" and "Get your feet wet." 
The second ticket includes Lisa Catenacci for president; Deirdre Milon, for vice presi­dent for academic affairs; and Mary Beth Blajda, for vice president of student affairs. "Steer in the right direction" and "Ride with experience" are their slogans for the cam­paign. In their introduction, Catenacci spoke about the ticket's goal of extending dining hall hours and increas­ing security awareness. 
Seven questions were di­rected toward the candidates by Sai-rt Mary's current Stu­dent Body President Julie Parish. Parish's questions ranged from ways to encour­age individualism and create diversification at Saint Mary's to ways of eliminating stereotypes between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame wo­men. The candidates were al­lowed one and a half minutes for each answer. The Observer and the audience also had an opportunity to question the can­didates. 
Many new ideas for student involvement were presented by both tickets. Suggestions in­cluded continuing the diversity series with additional speakers and increased awareness, of­fering more courses centering on women and establishing pro­grams to promote healthy relationships between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame wo­men. Student art exhibits and "Major Nights," designed to help freshmen and sophomore students decide which course of study to pursue were also pro­posed. 
The student government elections will be held during all meals in SAGA on Wednesday, Feb. 22. Due to the large num­ber of students fasting at lunch during Lent, however, voting will also take place in Haggar Hall outside of the bookstore during lunch. Students may vote on the LeMans side of the dining hall during breakfast and dinner. 
A 50 percent majority and one additional vote is required to win the election. If neces­sary, a run-off will be held on Friday, Feb. 24. The run-off will follow the same procedure as the original election. 
Current Student Body Presi­dent Julie Parish said both tick­ets represented themselves well but also said the candi­dates could have answered the questions more directly. "The candidates danced around a little bit with their answers," Parish said. 





From the left, Kathleen Sullivan, Shannon McGowan, the Candidates Night, in Haggar Parlor Monday eve­Debbie Neiman, Mary Blajda, Lisa Catenacci and ning, to discuss issues relevant to the upcoming stu­Deirdre Milon participate in the Saint Mary's Meet dent government elections. 
By RON SEVERINO 
News Staff 
The Macintosh Computer Lab in the LaFortune Student Center will stay open 24 hours a day beginning in April, accor­ding to Carolyn Goodnight, a consultant analyst at the Com­puting Center and Mathema­tics Building. Goodnight said the new lab will replace the current 24-hour lab in the CCMB. 
When the LaFortune lab begins operating on a 24-hour basis, Goodnight said all the word processors in the CCMB will be moved to the second floor of the Hesburgh Library, near the Reserve Room. 

The target date for this proj­ect is April 1, said Goodnight, although she said she is still looking for students to staff the lab. 24-hour student staffing will be a new task for Good­night, who is primarily in­volved with employing stu­dents at the computer labs currently on campus. 
The 24-hour lab presently in the CCMB doesn't require stu­dent workers around the clock, since computer operators, who monitor mainframe com­puters, are present at night. 
There is more room for com­puters at the library than in the CCMB, and the location is more 
See LAB, page 4 

page 2 The Observer Tuesday, February 21, 1989 INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 

James Carberry, professor of chemical engineering at Notre Dame, has been elected to the National Academy of Engineering, it was announced Monday in Washington 
D.C. Carberry was among 90 U.S. engineers and seven foreign associates elected this year. Cited for fundamental contributions to chemical reaction and heterogeneous catalysis, he joins the total membership of 1,482 engineers and 122 foreign associates. In catalysis, a chemical reac­tion between two or more substances is enhanced by the presence of a third substance, the catalyst, which remains unchanged in the process. The catalyst either speeds up the chemical reaction or increases the yield of the desired compound by in check the production of nonessential prod­ucts. -The Observer 
Arctic explorer Sir Ranulph Fiennes left Monday on a third attempt to walk unaided to the North Pole-an adventure he likened to "climbing a horizontal Mount Everest without oxygen." Fiennes, 45, flew to Montreal with partner Mike Stroud, 33, to prepare their attempt to become the first to make the 425-mile trek without dogs or other support. They will make camp at Ward Hunt Island, the world's most northerly land point, and hope to set out March 7. -Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 

A depression workshop is offered by the University Counseling Center to help those who feel down or depressed to get in touch with themselves, today at 6:30p.m., Room 300 University Counseling Center. -The Observer 
The Environmental Action Club meets tonight at 9 
p.m. in the CSC. The club is also sponsoring a guest lec­turer, Dr. Ching, the director of the National Recycling Coalition. Dr. Ching will discuss the prospects for recy­cling at Notre Dame Wednesday, Feb. 22, at 4:30p.m. in the CSC. -The Observer 
Production crew workers are needed for the Notre Dame Theatre presentation of "The Power and The Glory." Those interested should meet today at 4:30p.m. in the Scenography Lab, first floor, Washington Hall. For more information call 239-7054. -The Observer 
Hospice of St. Joseph County announces the start of a volunteer training session that will begin Feb. 25 and con­clude March 4. Hospice offers this training to new volun­teers who would like to support terminally ill patients and their families. Call Don Clarke at 237-7835 for more infor­mation. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's seniors "Employment oppo~unities with the Marriott," will be held today, 7-8 p.m. m Room 303 Haggar College Center. -The Observer 
Minority business students interested in a sum~er internship should attend a company sponsored reception today at 8 p.m. at the University Club. Please bring resumes. -The Observer 
Student Union Board applications for 1989-90 terms of office are available from the SUB Secretary, second floor, LaFortune Student Center. Applications for board 
manager, controller, and directors of relations, program­ming, and marketing are due by Feb. 22. Those applying for commissioners or assistant commissioners of special events, movies, music entertainment, campus entertain­ment, cultural arts, services, publicity, or ideas and issues must submit their applications by March 15.. -The Observer 



Despite complaints, NO is still special 
For the past few months, whiners have run rampant on the Notre Dame campus. 
I've been as guilty of it as anyone else, espe­cially since I have been known to use this column space to rant and rave about what I feel are common problems at Notre Dame. 
Constant complaints about the food, the social life, the housing policy, the checkmarking sys­tem, the way the University allocates its funds, the evil administration out to do us all in and the intolerant, homogeneous student body have reached my ears. 
Granted, many of these are legitimate gripes, but anyone from outside the Notre Dame family who listens to us for a period of time probably concludes that life at Notre Dame is wonderful as long as no one has to eat, sleep, breathe, live in the dorms, have a social life or take classes. 
I have a pleasant surprise for all the whiners out there, who seem to feel that Notre Dame can do nothing right for them: it could be worse. 
Maybe I'm crazy, but I don't sEre, in the over­all scheme of things, that this campus has too many drastic problems. In fact, in many ways, we are awfully lucky. 
I am the first to admit that South Bend is not many people's idea of an ideal college town. Getting around is pretty inconvenient without a car, it doesn't have as many cultural activities as a lot of people would like, the DJ's of U93 have got to go and the winters would be great if only no one had to step outside. 
On the other hand, Notre Dame does not have some of the problems it would have if it were situated in a larger city, either. We like to com­plain about South Bend, but we also like to be able to leave our doors unlocked when we leave our rooms. Students attending colleges consid­ered to have more ideal locations also have to worry about walking around the campus alone after a certain hour. 
As for the social life complaints, which seem to go hand in hand with complaints about the size of South Bend, I can only say that there have been people who have tried to change things. The All-Campus SYR is the result of one such effort. Everyone kicked and screamed when the number of dances was curtailed, since it apparently curtails the amount of dating that goes on, yet I'd be willing place bets that very few tickets have been sold for this event. 
Ifthis type of solution is not a positive solution in the eyes of the majority, then maybe those who make up the majority should go over to student government and volunteer to help out to affect some changes that they do want. 
I'm not wild about some of the policies that have been handed down from on high, either. But after I've been standing on my soap box for awhile, preaching about how much better I could be doing if I made the decisions around here, I try to calm myself down by making 
Alison Cocks 
Assistant Production Manager 

myself count my blessings. I start to feel pretty petty after I watch the news and realize what I could be coping with, when all I have to worry about is whether I'll be allowed to carry an open beer in the hallway. 
When I first visited Notre Dame, and my tour­guide led me to the various points of interest around Notre Dame, I was impressed not only by the genuine love he had for this university and his open friendliness, but by the fact that I found these same positive qualities in every­one I encountered. The sense of unity and spirit that I detected immediately was a major factor in my decision to come here. 
Sometimes, when I listen to the conversation around me, I wonder if this is the same place, if these are the same students who turned out in force to cheer the football team to victory against Miami, who rallied around a prospec­tive freshman when she was injured in last year's keg toss, who greet strangers cheerfully on the quad. 
I know it's difficult to be cheerful in the middle of February when it's freezing cold and the backlog of reading is piling high. But in the midst of whining about life in general, it is im­portant to remember that, despite its problems, there is something about Notre Dame that brought us here, that keeps us here, and brings us back for years after graduation. Taking an active interest in student concerns is a positive thing, as long as we keep in mind that in spite of it all, this is a special place, and being here makes us luckier than most. 

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 thrqugh Observer advertising. tqr details. 

TONIGHT AT SAINT MARY·s 


Design Edito.-.................. Chris Labaree Viewpoint Design & Layout .................. . Design Assistant ............ Karen Newlove .. .. ..... ...... ... . . . ...... ... .. . . ..... .. .. Laura Manzi Typesetters ............ Tim tbe Parrot King Accent Editor ........................ John Blasi ........................................ Daniel Towers Accent Copy Editor ........... Matt Murphy News Editor....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Dall Typists ................................. Will Zamer Copy Edito.-.................. Christine Walsh ........................................ Diana Bradley Sports Copy Edito.-................ Pete Skiko ND Day Editor ... Christine Dumbrowski 
SMC Day Editor .......... Rozel Gatmaitan ~~~-~~~-~:.~..~~~~~ itili~·s;;h~~~b;;~g Any One Special ............ The Van Driver 
Tile <Millner (USPS 599 2--4000) i1 published Monday throuah Friday accpt durin& cum and vacation periods. Tile <Millner is published by tbe students or tbe Univcnity or Nocre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Sublcriptions may be purchu· ed ror S40 per year IS2' per semester) by writina ne Olllener, P.O. Boll Q, Notre Dame, lndiaaa 46.5S6. 
Tile 01111nw il a member or ne "-daaeel rn.. All reproduction ripts are 
racned. 

CARROLL AUDITORIUM 9pm FREE 
Blends Swing. Classic. Motown. Beatles and Current Top 40's into their own unique style. High degree of audience involvement. 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY SRI NT MARY'S STUDENT 60UERNMENT 
--------------------------~-~------------------------------------------------~--­
Tuesday, February 21, 1989  The Observer  page 3  
Zahm beats PE in  
Iceberg Debates  
By SARAH VOIGT  cited the availability of  con- 
Staff Reporter  traceptives as a realistic way  
Last night, in a heated semi- to attack the problem teenage pregnancy.  of  
final  round  of  the  Iceberg  Hudgins  and  English  used  
Debates,  Zahm  beat statistics  to  demonstrate the  
Pasquerilla East by a 3-0 deci­ high number of teenage preg­ 
sion. "Non-prescription con­traceptives should be made available to students through  . nancies in recent years. The pro team stated, "We are not advocating sex or abortion; we are just being realistic."  
their public high school's health clinic" was the official  Business Professor Edward Trubac, 1985 Notre Dame  
topic of the debate.  graduate  Lisa  Everett  and  
Pasquerilla East resident Kate English, right, confers Monday evening. with teammate Zak Hudgins during the Iceberg debate, and Debates' semi-final between Pasquerilla East (pro) ford. and Zahm (con), conducted in Pasquerilla East Hall  The team from Zahm won the will advance to the finals against Sta The winning team of Brad Young and Jim McCarthy from Zahm argued the con side of n­the issue. They repeatedly stressed that birth control and contraceptive distribution was a moral issue.  Notre Dame graduate student Richard Tighe judged the debate. Everett, who works in the Catholic Diocese in the Depar­tment of Family Life, said, "I am really glad to see this kind  



...------------~ ---~~-­


page 4 The Observer 
AP Photo
Kentucky flooding 

. Residents, from left, Nancy Dean, Jo Cozine, and Kentucky River crested Friday at 44.2 feet, more than 
Mike Rosenstein make their way past flooded houses 13 feet above flood stage. 
by boat, Friday morning in Frankfort, Kentucky. The 
Glee Club to perform at convention 
where a visit to Elvis Presley's old home, Graceland is planned. 
Members who tour with the group are chosen on a seniority basis. However, Scott said this year 52 of 70 members will tour instead of the usual 44, as the club recieved a grant from Stu­dent Affairs to cover the ex­penses of the convention and for an extra van. 
"This rare convention invita­tion represents all of Mr. Starn's (the conductor's) hard work. He took a club which remains a fraternal orginiza­tion and made it into a nation­ally renowned musical group. The club has lost none of it's spirit, and its music has been enhanced," said Scott. "He has impressed upon us the value of good music." 
many believed there would be no 24-hour computer lab on campus when the CCMB lab closed. "It was never in the minds of the computer people that we wouldn't have a 24-hour lab," said Goodnight. "The 'where' of the 24-hour lab is what we weren't sure of." 
~oeedsomoonewith theoonfidmreofa~ 
thededication ot amarathontr andthe cburage ofanexplortt. 
We need 1 Peace Corps vohlptCcr. Call us 11 t-800-42.4-MBO, Ext. 91. 
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will be performing at the "most prestigious national convention for choral groups, the Ameri­can Choral Directors' Associa­tion National Convention," from March 8-12, according to Fred Scott, president of the Notre Dame Glee Club. 
"The Glee Club's perfor­mance at the Regional Conven­tion last year merited an invi­tation to the National Convention... Many different choral groups will be represented at the convention, but ours will be the only ~ glee club there," said Scott. Scott continued, "Those present gen­erally hear classical and aca­demic music, but from us they'll hear, not only serious 
Lab 
continued from page 1 
convenient for students, said Goodnight. "It's the logical choice," she said. 
Goodnight said the hours in the O'Shaughnessy Macintosh lab will stay the same, and the total number of word processing labs will remain at three, despite the new changes. A new IBM PC lab in the Architecture Building is also scheduled to open when students return from Spring Break, said Good­night. However, she said the lab will not be a word processor 


IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO GET INVOLVED ON CAMPUS ... OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE WITH S.U.B. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY _II> 
Gain valuable LEADERSHIP AND MANAGERIAL EXPERIENCE as part of the Student Union Board. We create, advertise and carry out events that directly affect the entire Notre Dame community. Applications are available NOW for next year's SUB Executive Board positions and are due Feb. 22. Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner positions are due March 15. Pick up applications NOW from the S.U.B. Secretary's desk on the 2nd floor of Lafortune. 
works of renowned composers such as Poulenc and Millhaud, but also spirituals and folk songs. This added a breath of fresh air to the regional con­vention last year." 
The Glee Club will not only be the only glee club in atten­dance, but has also been asked to perform twice. The club will perform "first as a featured choral group, and then again as a demonstration choir at a special interest session on male choruses," according to a Uni­versity press release. 
The club will attend the con­vention during its spring break tour. Each year the club travels to different regions of the U.S. visiting alumni as­sociations. 
This year, the club will travel to St. Louis, Mo., Jackson, Miss. and Memphis, Tenn., 
lab, but, rather, one "geared toward architecture and engin­eering students." 
The only part of LaFortune that will stay open 24 hours is the hall immediately outside the computer lab, said Ceil Paulson, assistant director of Student Activities. He said the lower east door that leads to the lab will be the only un­locked outside door. 
According to Phil Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security, however, "Security plans haven't been finalized." 
Goodnight said there was some confusion among stu­dents concerning the labs, as 




FRESHMEN 
Do you want to play a vital role in one of the most influential and respected organizations on campus? 
Student Union Board needs and encourages interested freshmen to help us create, advertise and carry out the events that affect the entire Notre Dame Community. 
There's NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. Simply choose your area of interest and apply. 
Pick up applications NOW from the SUB Secretary's Desk on the 2nd Aoor of Lafortune. 
Tuesday, February 21, 1989 

Constitutional changes in HPC are discussed 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Staff Reporter 
Student Senate Monday eve­ning debated aspects of a pro­posed constitutional change dealing with the Student Union Board. 
The constitutional change, according to SUB manager Brian Reilly, is to ensure a bu­reaucracy that is more effi­cient and more qualified. This would guarantee better service to the students and would help clarify the exact nature of SUB members' powers. 
Debate Jver the proposed change originated from a dis­cussion whether or not a com­mittee should exist to review the general policies and finances of SUB on a regular basis. Any such committee would consist of several stu­dent government, SUB and Hall Presidents' Council mem­bers. 
Student Body President Tom Doyle said, "I think that since the Student Union Board is ul­timately resposible to the sen­ate and to the students, we (the senate) should know what's going on with its budget." He cited SUB as having the largest 
SObering Advice-;: . can save a~~~~~ 
Think Before You Drink /~~
Before You Drive .~~...­
r:f_R__E_E_--;;~;;p-;;;R-;;;; ;;R--, 
STUDENTS WHO NEED 

MONEY FOR COLLEGE 
Every Student Is Eligible tor Some Type of Financial 
Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fel­
lowships, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion in private sector funding. Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic 
interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. 
There's money available for students who have been newspaper 
carriers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ... etc. 
Results GUARANTEED. 
CALL For A Free Brochure ·-~ ANYTIME (800) 346-6401 fi__j 
~-------------------~ 
COMMISSIONER & ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER POSITIONS: 
Applications Due March 15 
Campus Entertainment Cultural Arts Ideas and Issues Movies Music Entertainment Publicity Services Special Events 

budget of any student organi­zation. 
Reilly agreed, but said that the creation of another group would be time-consuming and unneccesary. Reilly held that a regular report to the student 
government  treasurer  should  
suffice.  
"Accountability  is  neces­ 

sary, but at what cost?" asked Reilly. 
Concern was raised by Stu­dent Body Vice President Mike Paese that, with the present system, mismanagement in SUB could occur without the senate's immediate knowledge or intervention. 
Both Doyle and Paese con­cluded that SUB should be more directly accountable to student senate to better deal with any inconsistencies or abuses. However, the issue was tabled until next meeting due to time constraints. 
In other senate business, HPC said the date for hall gov­ernment elections is set for March 28. Both newly-elected and old hall presidents will at­tend HPC meetings for the two weeks after the elections to en­sure a smooth transition of power in the HPC. 

----~--.---------~----------------~~~~~.-~----------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, February 21, 1989 The Observer page 5 

Conditions for asylum in U.S. made more stringent 
Associated Press 
BROWNSVILLE, Texas-Central Americans applying for asylum will get an answer in as little as one day and will be subject to immediate im­prisonment if turned down, of­ficials said Monday. 
The Immigration and Naturalization Service staff in southern Texas will be in­creased by 500 to patrol the bor­der and speed up the weeding out of "frivolous" asylum claims, INS commissioner Alan Nelson announced. 
More jails will be built to hold people who are turned down pending their appeal or deportation, he said. 
"We intend to send a strong signal to those people who have the mistaken idea that by merely filing a frivolous asylum claim, they may stay in the United States," Nelson said. "This willful manipula­tion of America's generosity must stop." 
A group called the Brownsville Ad Hoc Refugee Committee criticized the new INS policy as a "mean-spirited attempt to deter political refugees from applying for po­litical asylum." 
The policy will be phased in over the next several weeks. Nelson said the INS hopes even­tually to process most asylum applications in the region in a sought asylum in fiscal year day or two. Currently, asylum 1988, compared with 7,063 in decisions can take months. 1985. 
"We hope to have same-day According to INS records, service," said INS spokes­3,136 people applied for asylum woman Virginia Kice. between Wednesday and Sun­
The changes came the same day at the agency's Port Isabel day the INS was allowed to Processing Center, a rural reinstate a policy restricting detention center 15 miles north­people seeking asylum from east of Brownsville, the main leaving southern Texas while entry point for asylum-seekers they await decisions. from war-torn and poverty­
Tens of thousands of Central stricken Central America. Americans are expected to cross the Rio Grande into But INS officials maintain southern Texas this year, ac­that most of the Central cording to the INS, which says Americans are here for eco­political asylum requests from nomic reasons and do not Central Americans have risen qualify for asylum from per­almost sevenfold over the past secution. four years. More than 50,000 Robert Rubin, lead council in 
Associated Press 
CRANSTON, R.I.-National Guard troops in combat fatigues bathed and fed patients Monday at state-run General Hospital after scores of nurses and attendants walked out in a contract dis­pute. 
The state, citing a law against strikes by state employees, sought a court or­der forcing workers to return to the 480-bed, mostly long­term-care hospital. Superior Court Judge Antonio Almeida said he would rule Tuesday. 
Thomas Romeo, director of the state Department of Mental Health, Retardation and Hospi­
Long ride home tals, accused the members of
AP Photo 
Local 1350, American Federa­
Trying to break the 1989 Guinness Book of World day at Memorial Park in Appleton, Wisconsin. 
tion of State, County and
Record's listing for record number of people to tobog­Lawrence University students participated in the 
Municip~l Employees, of 
gan, 187 people pack themselves onto a 120-foot­event as part of Appleton's Ice Fest. 
"walking away from patients" 
long toboggan and slide down a 220-foot course Sun-
and said patients' lives were threatened.
r-----------------------------------. "Not all the individuals up 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE there right now know exactly presehts 
what they're doing. There's not a lot of tolerance for error,"
THE POWER AND THE GLORY 
Romeo said. 
April 19,20,21,22,23 
Seven of the 110 Guard troops on duty Monday had nursing
ANYONE INTERESTED IN WORKING ON THE PRODUCTION CREW 
training; the rest were given
OF THE PLAY IS INVITED TO AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING. 
non-medical tasks like feeding, 
TUESDAY FEB. 21 4:30 p.m. 
washing and dressing patients. 
More than a dozen acute-care 
SCENOGRAPHY LAB, 1st FLOOR. WASHINGTON HALL. 
patients were transferred toL..-----------------------------------..other hospitals, and the facility 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 239-7054. 
,---------------------------------------------------------_,stopped admissions 
"I think this is totally un­
Third World Awareness Week 
called for," Connie Prior, 56, a quadriplegic who has been at

February 20th-24th 
the hospital for two years, said of the job action. "Number one Events for the week should be the patients." 
Monday Informal Discussion with Prof. Roberto Da Matta" On Third World Culture: 
A four-day sickout ended Jan. 
Notes from Brazil" 4:30 pm at the Center for Social Concerns coffeehouse 
31 when the Guard was called in.
Tuesday Informal Discussion with Prof. James Bellis and return volunteer Leslie Le 
Doctors on Monday reported 
May J'Culture in the tropics, a delicate balance: A West African Experience" 
4:30 pm C.S.C. Coffeehouse 
Wednesday Brown bag lunch discussion with Prof. Patrick Gattwey "Great Powers and 

small states in the Middle East" 12 noon C.S.C. Coffeehouse 
Thursday First'rhird World Banquet-cosponsored by World Hunger Coalition Take your chances and get a fancy 1st world dinner or a simple 3rd world meal. 5:30pm C.S.C. Coffeehouse Must buy tickets at C.S.C. by Wednesday ! 
and CILA presentation of ND student project in Mexico. See how you fellow students worked to help the needy in Mexico, 8 pm C.S.C. Multi-purpose room 
Friday Free showing of" Salvador" starring James woods 
8. pm Lecture Room 122 Hayes Healey Seating limited to first 140 people. 
the lawsuit that led to the restraining order, said INS detention "should be the excep­tion and not the rule for asylum seekers." He said the United States should show a ''humanitarian spirit.'' 
Roughly half of the Central Americans seeking asylum are from Nicaragua, Nelson said. 
"In a real sense," said Rubin, in San Francisco, "the INS has become a prisoner of its own policy. And that policy as recently as 1987 and 1988 was to encourage Nicaraguans to come to the United States be­cause they would be granted asylum. 
National Guard staffs hospital after workers walk out in Rl 
as usual, but about one-fifth of the 89 attendants and fewer than half the 13licensed practi­cal nurses showed up for the first shift, officials said. About half the 26 registered nurses honored the picket line, said Dan Caley, an MHRH spokes­man. 
Only one of 117 attendants scheduled to work at the state Institute of Mental Health, also staffed by union members, re­ported for work Monday mor­ning, said Romeo. 
Gov. Edward DiPrete called out the Guard late Sunday after the union voted four to one to reject a proposed 53-cent-an­hour raise offered in return for concessions on staffing, includ­ing a reduction in overtime and greater management leeway in transferring staffers from ward to ward. 
The union, which has 1,300 members, about half of whom work at General Hospital, is up­set with a new hospital policy not to replace absent employees to curb overtime. 
DiPrete has ordered the MHRH to erase a $3.5 million projected deficit by the July 1 end of the fiscal year. 
Negotiations broke down Friday, and no new talks were scheduled. 
About two dozen people ar­rived by late morning in response to a hospital appeal for volunteers, said a volunteer who would not give her name. 
National Guard member Sue McCabe, a registered nurse called in from her shift at War­wick's Kent County Memorial Hospital, said she was caring for about 10 patients, "so that's not really a big deal." 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Copy Editor 
For further information, please contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957.
Attend just ONE event this week, that's all we ask, for you to increase your awareness of life in other areas of the world! 
Sponsored by Overseas Development Network 
~-----------~-~ ------~--­





30/Month 
Call: 239-7477 Office of University Computing Notre Dame Computer Store Computer/Math Building Room 25 8:00 AM -5:00 PM 
® 1989 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 
---~-­
page 7 

Jury for North trial will be sworn in today 
Peppa, a member of the Beagle Brigade (part of the Deborah Perreira. Peppa sniffs out prohibited fruit and u.s. Department of Agriculture's Plant Protection and meat from the baggage of passengers arriving from Quarantine Division), is attended by canine officer overseas at the John F. Kennedy International Airport. 



The Observer 
California  Florida  Massachusetts  New Mexico  Texas  
Colorado  Illinois  Michigan  New York  Vermont  
Connecticut  Maine  New Hampshire  Pennsylvania  Virginia  
Dist. of Columbia  Maryland  New Jersey  Rhode Island  

STANLEY H. 

KAPIAN-SMH 
BAR REVIEW SERVICES 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135 
Associated Press 
WASHI!'JGTON-A_ jury ~ill be s~orn m Tuesda:y m the trial of Oliver North, With the pro­s~cution prepari~g a lin~up of Witnesses to testify he tned to co_ver up the Iran-Contra af­
farr. 
Lawyers for the fired presidential aide plan to rebut the prosecution's case by showing North had White House authorization for his ac­tivities. North, the key figure in the Iran-Contra affair, was indicted 11 months ago with former National Security Ad­viser John Poindexter and businessmen Richard Secord and Albert Hakim. 
The latter three will be tried separately. 
Two central charges against North, accusing him of conspir­acy and theft in diverting Iranian arms sale profits to the Nicaraguan guerrillas, were thrown out last month on na­tional security grounds. 
The jury of nine women and three men was selected Feb. 9. But the trial was delayed when the Justice Department protested that North might divulge classified material in the courtroom. After receiving assurances from Independent Counsel Lawrence Walsh, the department on Wednesday dropped efforts to delay the tri­al. 

The jurors have one thing in common: they had almost no exposure to North's nationally 
televised congressional tes­
timony in 1987 in which he ad­
mitted under limited immu­
nity f~om prosecution, many 
details touching on the crimes 
with which he is charged. 
The jurors include an electronics technician, a cas­hier, an clerical worker who says "I don't like the news" and an unemployed former of­fice manager who says she recalled that North was "sell­ing something to Iran." 
North, a decorated former Marine colonel, is accused of 12 criminal charges. 
Five include alleged lying to Congress in 1985 and 1986 by denying he was assisting the Contras. Four other counts al~ lege that he lied to Congress and the attorney general and that he destroyed documents in November 1986. 
North allegedly helped prepare false chronologies, saying no one in the U.S. gov­ernment learned before J anu­ary 1986 that Hawk missiles had been shipped to Iran in No­vember 1985. He also is accused of lying to the attorney general that the National Security Council was involved in divert­ing money from the arms sales to the Contras, and with falsify­ing documents showing his in­volvement with the Contras. 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Accent Copy Editors {3) 
Please contact Beth Healy at 283-1264 or John Blasi at 283-2163 or 239-5303 

------------~-­

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, February 21, 1989

page 8 
P.O. Box Q
Catenaccii ticket deserves your vote The Observer endorses the ticket of Lisa Catenacci for Saint Mary's student body president, Mary Beth Blajda for vice pres­ident for student affairs and Deirdre Milon for vice president for academic affairs. Experience in student government, visibility to the students, and a professional and practical approach to working with the administration sets the Catenacci ticket apart from the Shannon McGowan ticket. Catenacci currently serves as junior class president, Milon holds the position of junior class treasurer and Blajda was soph­omore class president. While experience alone does not make for a successful administration, i1t is vital for the student body officers to have a working knowledge of the bureaucracy. The Catenacci ticket has this knowledge and therefore the capability to continue the improvements that Juliie Parrish's administration has made. Student government's success depends on its visibility to each student. The Catenacci ticket has shown a willingness and dedication to listen to the student needs and a competency in acting upon these needs. Communicating student needs to the administration requires clearly defined goals and the professionalism to make these goals reality. As a result of their extensive experience with Saint Mary's administration, Catenacci, Blajda and Milon can develop pragmatic alternatives for student concerns. While neither ticket has addressed successfully the issues of security information problems and student diversity at Saint Mary's, the Catenacci ticket is more likely to push for necessary change. Exercise your right to make student government work for you. Vote for Lisa Catenacci, Mary Beth Blajda and Deirdre Milon on Wednesday. -The Observer  

Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends upon the participation of its readers. All members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community are encou.raged to submit commentary. Typewritten letters receive preference. All submissions are subject to editing. Address articles to Viewpoint, P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Letters may also be delivered in person to The Observer, Third Floor LaFortune Student Center.  

Campus-Wide SYR starts tradition 
Dear Editor: 
When -the Student Union Board took a survey last semester to find out what you, the student body, wanted to see and do on campus, the responses we received were outstanding. You said you wanted more opportunities to get out of the dorms, more weekend events to get away from the same old party­hopping, and more ways to meet people . of the opposite sex (What? At Notre Dame?) 
In keeping with the unified spirit and classy tradition that we've all come to enjoy, the Student Union Board is res­ponding to your suggestions in a big way. For the first time ever, the entire campus of Notre Dame is invited to come together for The Campus-Wide SYR. For one night, on Friday, Feb. 24, everyone on campus will be able to party together. The North Dining Com­mons will be the place to meet with your friends from all over campus, dance to the incredible music of the Rave from Chicago, and win prizes just for walking in the door. 
This SYR does have a twist. If you no longer trust your roommate's taste in dates and you want to meet that per­fect someone you've been waiting for during your entire college career, the SUB is providing a computerized dating service free of charge. Sign up for your­self or your entire section. The Campus­Wide SYR is the beginning of another great ND tradition. Tickets and com­puter date applications are available from your dorm SYR commissioners and at the LaFortune Information Desk. Friday, Feb. 24, The Campus­Wide SYR, a night to remember. 
....--t..isa Mackett Kelly Ruffner Student Union Board 
Feb. 15, 1989 

24 hour lounge not really needed 
Dear Editor: 
I'd like to respond to the column writ­ten by Matt Gallagher (Feb. 15), as well as all the students who wonder why the Oak Room is not open 24 hours. As an employee of the Oak Room, and a stu­dent who studies there regularly, I am glad the Oak Room is not open 24 hours. 
24-hour space is available in each dorm--and I realize that this is not ideal, but a successful social life is not dependent on where one can be social, rather, it depends on the individual. Most of the people I know have managed to enjoy their years at Notre Dame immensely even without a 24­hour Oak Room. 
I do not see the 24-hour service as necessary or even beneficial for Notre Dame as an institution or its student body. We know that, as an institution, Notre Dame can well afford to keep it open, so let us put financial considera­tions aside. 
As an employee, I saw the ugly side of the 24-hour facility. On any given Thursday, Friday or Saturday night I was called many an unflattering name because I refused to give someone more chips or fries without charging them extra. A large number of students sup­posedly from civil families stood on the tables and chairs, pointed towards what they wanted, demanded rather than asked, and that is if they were sober enough to speak for themselves. The students seem to forget that I am an employee providing a convenience, not a slave, and the Night Oak is not a necessity. 
I am also not being paid to police the students, but I sometimes must. Every nacho or fry that is passed out has to be watched to make sure it is not eaten before the student gets to the register. 
When I walk around to clean up the tables, I find empty beer cans with the beer, if not spilled on the floor, then filling a nacho dish to the rim. I then have to do a balancing act of getting it to the trash can without spilling it. Two trash cans sit at the exit but it seems a lot of students don't know how to clean up after themselves. Once things do get cleaned, a broken salad bar is found, a trashed bathroom, a kicked-in front door, and the list goes on. 
I enjoy working at the Night Oak on Friday and Saturday nights. I have fun with the people with whom I work. I even enjoy serving most of the stu­dents. But some students have to learn to be considerate and grateful for the Oak Room as a convenience, not abuse it and think it their right. The' 24-hour Oak Room is not a necessity. If the con­tinuation of a 24-hour service is going to make or break a person's social life, then that person better move to the city that never sleeps. 
Suzann Waters Badin Hall 
Feb. 17, 1989 

Doonesbury 
TillS JUST IN, CAMP&RS! 7H& FIRST "HIT PAPAP& Of ~HAM&" fROM TH/3 8U5H APMIN61RATION! 
I !<NOW, I KNOW, IT 5&C,Mq, A 
TAl? 8ARLY, WHAT AR& 
'-. YOU GO­
ING TO 
[)(}~ 


Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 

5e&WHAT HAPP&N5 UIH&N 
/A/& GO OFF TH& 
J08FOR A IAIIZK.? 
'Nobody will ever win the battle of the sexes. There's too much fraternization with the enemy.' 
-Henry Kissinger 

r  
-Ih-e-Obse..~~or-­-. ----.L-=-Y=-'-' __ ---­ Editorial Board  Or;erations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Ed1tor·m·Ch1el  .... Chns Murphy Busmess Manager John Oxnder  
Managmg Ed1tor  Chris Donnelly Advertismg Design Manager Molly Killen  
News Editor  Regis Cocc1a Advertising Manager Lmda Goldschm1dt  
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un~vers1ty of  News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager Bernadene Sh11ts  
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of  Viewpomt Ed11J;J1  ..... Dave Bruner Systems Manager Mark Ridgeway  
the adminiStration of either Institution. The news IS reported as accurately and obtectively as  Sports Editor  .Marty Strasen Controller. Todd Hardiman  
poss1ble. Unsigned editonals represent the opinion of the maJority of the Editonal Board  Accent Ed1tor  Beth Healy Graph1c Arts Manager .. Marga Bruns  
Commentanes. leners and the Inside Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column  Samt Mary's Ed1tor  Sandy Cerimele  
space IS ava1lable lo all members of the community and thE! free express1on of varying  Photo Editor  Michael Moran  
op1n1ons on campus. through letters, is encouraged.  
Founded November 3,1966  


-----·---· -­




Accent 
Tuesday, February 21, 1989 page 9 
'Simon'--a student creation 

HENRY MARK 
ception of stage presence." He 
accent writer 
added that it also helped him 
The dream of four college get an understanding of how seniors will finally come true voices are projected in an with the opening of "Simon". auditorium. This entirely student­Shawn Sturnick, one of produced, student-directed and Meffe's good friends from his student-written musical will be hometown, contributed to half presented in Washington Hall of the show's lyrics. His expe­February 22-25. riences on stage include roles 
In the musical, Simon is a in "The Crucible" and piano player in Shirley's Bar & "Twelfth Night". He has also Grill who falls in love with Emi­written a play, "Lope de ly, a visitor to the bar. He feels Vega", a musical that will be strongly for Emily, but has collaborated with Robert trouble expressing his emo­Meffe. tions in words and tries to ex­Mark Costanzi, the writer of press himself through his the script and a major in com­music. Other characters in­munications and theater, has 
clude Shirley, the bar's had readings of his playpropietress; Jeffrey, a singing, "Private Moments" and is tap-dancing bartender; and busy acting in Notre Dame I Annie, a waitress who enjoys Saint Mary's College Theater spending her time with Simon. with such roles as Creon in 
Three Notre Dame seniors: "Antigone" and Charley in Robert Meffe, Mark Costanzi, "Death of a Salesman". Brant Beckett and a senior at He said, "PlaywrightingSeton Hill College, Shawn Stur­gives you a whole new perspec­nick, have been working on this tive on the characters." He musical for almost two years. continued by saying that "As a 
Robert Meffe, a pre-med 1 playwright, you can do anyth­music major, is the executive ing, but when you are an actor, producer and writer of the you have no idea what the music in "Simon". He's had ex­playwright intended." Courtesy of K. Lynn Berryperience with music as student Brant Beckett who met 
Members of the cast of the play "Simon" pose during rehearsal
conductor of the Notre Dame Robert as a freshman, contrib­
for this upcoming student-run production
Glee Club for three years. He uted the other half of the lyrics has also worked on ten musi­and also serves as the director and Christopher Durang's composing the music about 
cals, five of which are with the of the Notre Dame production. "The Marriage of Bette and four years ago. He also stated Pittsburgh Civic Light Opera. 
A history major, Beckett has Boo". that there was no reason for 
He said, "Being in the Glee 
directed productions of Ed­writing the music, but theyClub helped me get a good con-ward Albee's "The Zoo Story" Meffe said that he started were iust reflections on a char-
Exploring relationship between students and teachers 
COLLEEN GANNON accent writer 
T 
he exploration of relation­ships between men and women has recently received a great deal of attention at Notre Dame. A different type of relationship found on the Notre Dame I Saint Mary's campus will soon be explored by the Saint Mary's Theater and Communications Depart­ment through their presenta­tion of "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie." 
The play opens on Wednes­day, February 22 and runs to Sunday, February 26 at St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Showtime will be at 8:10 p.m. Wednesday thru Teddy Lloyd (Mark Cos­Saturday. On Sunday, there tanzi), Sandy (Amy McFad­will be a special 3 p.m. den), Mackay (K. Lynn
matinee. Berry) and Mary (Kristen 
Saint Mary's junior Leisa Schumacher). The cast mem­Heintzelman stars as Miss bers have been rehearsingJean Brodie. Heintzelman is 
since the end of winter break. 
supported by a cast consisting "The Prime of Miss Jean 
entirely of Notre Dame and Brodie" is set at an all girl's 
Saint Mary's students. The school during the 1930's. This 
play deals with Jean Brodie's setting serves as a place to interactions with her students deeply explore the relation­ships between teachers and Bill Watterson students. The play centers around
I 1\.\INK. f\[S CRA.li. l Hf>..ll 
r OOT T\1\NK Or AHY'nllt-\6­

l ~T KNOW W\4~ 
Miss Jean Brodie, a teacher LIKt. TO l-1~\Jt. t.'lt.RiniiNG 
Wfi.\Tit-IG 1'01<. T\.\IN\;5. I 
I'D RAWER AN.TICIPI\IE \11A\-I I 'tlenii:R TR.~It-IG 
HI\~E R\GI-lT AWA'i. CAt-\ 'b-1? 1b HA~E: 1\ Lim£ who has devoted her life to IMM£DII\TI:.l'1. 
DISC\JSSION W\11\ her students. When a drastic 
'iO.J 'riH£N 'iOU'RE event occurs at the school, ALWA'IS 3::l MORBID. 
the audience finally realizes 
Miss Jean Brodie's true per­
sonality. This revelation 
sheds a new light on a rela­
tionship that has existed ever 
since people began teaching 
one another. 
Julie Jensen, professor of acter he created named Simon. 

So with the music that Robert 
already wrote and with the 
knowledge that three of his 
friends had some experience 
with stage and music, the four 
got together and "Simon" was 
finally finished last December. 
Costanzi said, "It's the music that makes it good and that's what people will remember." 
Appearing in the Notre Dame production will be Steve Weh­meyer as Simon, Jackie Bayliss as Emily, Mary Louisa Meehan as Shirley, Paul Savatoriello as Jeffrey and Stephanie Pile as Annie. David Foster, Lewis LaGrange and John McKee play regulars in the bar. 
Music direction is by Jeffrey McGarrity with choreography by Jilanne Klaus. Kevin Hof­fman and Dan Gore built and designed the set respectively. 
Tickets are $3 and can be pur­chased at the LaFortune Box Office, 239-5957. Visa and Mas­terCard are accepted. 
Costanzi explained that after the production, the musical will be revised and parts will be rewritten (if needed). Then the four hope to publish "Simon" and that it will someday make it in a great theater, or maybe even Broadway. 
communication and theater at Saint Mary's College is the director of "The Pride of Miss Jean Brodie." Jensen describes the play as a "complicated story about the relationship between students and teachers." According to Jensen, the play raises the question of "what to do in the face of an extremely powerful teacher." 
Tickets for the play will be sold for $4 to all students through the O'Laughlin Auditorium Box Office. Tick­ets will also be sold at the doors each night of the per­formance. 
According to Jensen, the significance of "The Pride of Miss Jean Brodie" extends beyond the academic sphere. The message of the play holds true for any situation in which one person becomes all too powerful. 

page 10 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
A squash film featuring the 1984 Boston Winterfest volleyball signups continue Open final between Jahangir Khan and Mark through Friday at the LaFortune information Talbott will be shown Thursday at 6:30p.m. at desk. People can sign up individually or as a the Joyce ACC football auditorium. -The Obser-six-person team. All games are Saturday, Feb. ver 25., in the afternoon. Student Union Board is 
sponsoring the event. -The Observer A women's track meet scheduled for 
Saturday at Meyo Tra~k needs volunteers to help officiate it. Anyone interested should con­tact Linda at x2563 or Wendy at 684-4052. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVIII signups are scheduled for Sunday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the Great Hall in O'Shaughnessy. Saint Mary's signups are Monday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Game Room in Haggar. Each team must pay a $5 registration fee, and all Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff are eligible. People with a questionable team name should bring another with them. -The Observer 
Off-Campus lacrosse players wanting to play for the Interhall team should attend a brief meeting today at 5 p.m. in the hockey bleachers of the Joyce ACC. Anvone who cannot attend should call Bill at 287-5758. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 in room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. All members are asked to attend. -The Observer 
WVFI-640 AM will air Sportsbeat tonight from 10 to 11. Join Greg Guffey, Jamey Rappis and Vic Lombardi as they discuss happenings in the world of sports. Call 239-6400 with ques­tions or comments. -The Observer 
Tuesday, February 21, 1989 

Gilbert wins Volvo, gains confidence 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn--Brad Gil­bert is serving warning that he is ready to make a major move up the tennis rankings ladder in 1989. 
Gilbert, a finalist two weeks sgo in Chicago, dominated Johan Kriek for two sets Sun­day and then captured the singles title in the $415,000 Volvo Tennis Indoor Champi­onship when a groin injury forced Kriek to retire. 
"It was an unfortunate way to end the tournament, but it feels good to be back in the win­ner's circle again," said Gil­bert, the No. 6 seed in the In­door and currently ranked 19th in the world. 
Gilbert had little problem handling No. 16 Kriek's power game, winning the first two sets by identical 6-2 scores. 
"I played consistently. I didn't really go for a lot of win­ners. I just played the ball back," said Gilbert, who defeated Kriek for the sixth time in seven meetings. 
"I played well all week. I just thought if I played one match at a time, things would fall into place," Gilbert said. 
Gilbert, a bronze medalist at the 1988 Olympics, earned $53,550 for the win, while Kriek took home $26,775. 
The Indoor title was the second for Gilbert, who defeated John McEnroe in 1982. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Typifi9Wonlproceulng 237-1948 
TYPING PICKUP & DEUVERY 277-7406 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks lor 
CASHII Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash 
or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. 

Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 
233-2342 
SAVE TIME! "How To Report On a Book You Haven~ Actually Read." Send $10: Box 15071 Columbus. OH 43215 
US SPRINT Fiber Optics Long distan-ce services Business Opportunity meeting today, Tuesday 3:30 & 4:30 p.m. in SORIN room LaFortune Stud. center. Part or Full time Income. 
Attention SMC Toastmaster's II; To-night is bowling night! Same time. and place (6:00pm Haggar) all those with cars please meet outside Haggar. 
I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: SOMEONE TOOK MY RED CW SKI JACKET FROM THE CCE SATUR­DAY NIGHT. PLEASE RETURN IT SINCE IT'S MY ONLY JACKET AND I CANT AFFORD A NEW ONE I'LL AS­SUME IT WAS AN HONEST MISTAKE. I'LL EVEN GIVE A REWARD FOR THE JACKET OR INFORMATION WHERE IT lSI PLEASE CALL SEAN-4784. 
LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­MILITARY FORMAL!! call BRET x1389 
LOST:Gold FRAME GLASSES since 1188 please contact Carla at 4803 
LOST:A BROWN PEN CASE(RENOMA)WITH 4 PENS(PERKER)ON 14TH IN O'SHAUGHNESS OR LAW SCOOL.I LOVE THEM!IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KEIKO(INT'L PEACE HOUSE 283· 3943.PLESE HELP POOR JAPANESE!! 
FOUND: A pair of purple ladies mittens in the ladies restroom at the Comp-Math Bldg. Mn.night. Call 3688 to identify. 
Can't read this ad? I found your glasses II Found: Gold wire-rimmed glasses in hard black case on February 9th in rm. 204 Nieuwland Science Hall. Call x3781 and see again! 
LOST! Set of keys on wooden name keychain, :W, evening, between O'Shag and BP. PLEASE call ~1363, Colleen, wany info, ASAP!! 
Lost black Casio dig~al watch (~ was in a Jan glasses case); please call Marl< at x1409. No questions asked. Reward. 
FOUND: digital watch outside of bus stop by circle, on Sun of JPW Call Tim at x1712 to identify 
I LOST MY FINANCE 231 BOOK-I left 
in HURLEY om Wed. 2'15 Pandora's will 
not buy ~ so please retum it. 
BILL 1436 
FOR RENT 

FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK­FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL FOR ALL ND ACnvJTIES. RESERVE NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. 818-471-5711. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291-7153. 
HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D. 
1183-8889-277-3097. 
WANTED 

COUNSELORs-Boys camp in Berl<shire Mts.. West. Mass. Good Sal.,roorn & bd,travel allcowance, beautiful modem lacility,must love children & be able to teach one of the following: Tennis, W.S.I.,Sailing Waterski,Basebaii,Basketbaii,Soccer LaCrosse,Wood,A&C,Rocketry, Photog­raphy,Archery,Pioneering, Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp Winadu,5 Glen La.,Mamaroneck, NY 10543. (914)381-5983 
NO Law scllool students to be reps lOr Kaplan-SMH Bar Ravl-coursee. Earn free bar rev-course plus $$'a. Call 272-4135. Ask lor Sue. 
COUNSELORS-Girls camp in Maine. Good sal,room & bd.,travel allowance, beaut~ul modem facility ,must love children and tle able to teach one ollhe lollowing:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing Waterski,Soltbaii,Basketball, Soc· cer,LaCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­back,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp Cralt,Gymnastics.Call or write:Camp Vega, Box 1771 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 (617)934-6536 
$$$ I NEED 5 LOUISVILLE TICKETS $$$ 283-2814 DAY /271-8639 NIGHT 
HELP! Ride needed to and from Boston area lor spring break. Call Katie X1335. 
WANTED-LEADERS: EARN ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIPS THIS SUMMER Contact Maj. Warrick 239-6264 
SUMMER JOBS!! Two of Mlnnnesota' finest summer you·th camps seek col­lage students to work as counselors and Instructors In sailing and English and Western riding. Employment from June 8 tllru August 13. For an appli­cation call 1-800-451-5270 ext. 410 
SUMMER JOBS 

GLACIER PARK MONTANA 
LARGE RESORT ON EAST ENTRANCE 
TO GLACIER PARK IS INTERVIEWING 
TODAY AND WEDNESDAY IN THE 
CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICE 
OFFICE. HURRY, THIS IS OUR ONLY 
VISIT THIS YEAR. 
RIDE NEEDED EAST ON 1-80 TOWARD NYC, PREFERABLY TO AREA OF WILKES-BARRE PA OR ELSE ANYONE HEADING TOWARDS PHILADELPHIA OR SYRACUSISeiNGHAMTON NY AREA PLEASE CALL NEll AT X4051 
HELP I need a ride to and from AUanta or Birmingham lor break will share gas Chris# 1425 
FOR SALE 

NEED AIRLINE TICKET! I'M SELLING ROUNDTRIP PASS TO ANYWHERE PIEDMONT FLYS IN U.S. CALL DIEGO 283-4050 
79 MIDGET EXC. COND. LOW MILAGE 294-5699 
small stereo lor sale call Jay x4662 
TICKETS 
need louiseville GA and Stu x3517 
For Sale:2 GAs lor DePaul,2 lor Louls­ville.Best offer lor either by 226.X2693 
PERSONALS 
MF--"Confidence is high. My state is peaking." 
LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review early. Kaplan-SMH revle-to many allllft aVIIIIable here In South Band. Tranahlr back !lome for summer. Dis­counts for Kaplan LSAT alumni. Reurve before March 2 Call272-4135. Ask lor Sua. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN$' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1~3-8373 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr.round.AII Countrlea,AII fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92825. 
hlag 

SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN$' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373 
ADOPTION Loving ,secure married couple unable to conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le· gal.medical exp. Pis call collect Chris & Susan, 7031276-9751 Completely con­fidential. 
ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877· 3574 
............................................,\.,,............... 
CORNELL GOING THAT WAY 314? RETURNING 3112? NEED A RIDER? X2966 
Thank you St. Jude lor the ordination of a female liberal black bishop. Now let's try lor one in the Roman church. 
I need a ride near CLEVELAND lor spring break.Anyone going east on rt 80 please call Brian x2124 will share $$. 
Someone who is 
NOT AFRAID TO BE HIMSELF would like to thank whoever sent me the card. Call me and let me know who you are! 
CHRIS MCCARTHY TURNS 21 TODAY! 21 ON THE 21ST-HE IS DYNAMITE TODAY! CALL CHRIS AT 1879 OR STOP BY FISHER 101-102 AND WISH HIM A HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! 
I desperately need ride back to NO from NJ on 3-12. Peter x2124 will share dri\Vexp. 
ATTN: SMC FRESHMEN '92 
VOTE 
LIZ VANDERSARL-PRES 
FRANNIE CAPPELLERI-VICE 
MARIA ALVAREZ-SEC 
DEBBIE WUNDER-TREAS 
SMC JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS VOTE VOTE WEDNESDAY ••RYAN " SCULLY " FARLEY MCGOWAN AT THE DINING HALL 
Come ride with us on the bus. Are you going to Wisconsin lor Spring Break? $25 round trip to Milwaukee Sign up· Wed., Feb. 22, 9:00 pm in main ftoor lobby of La Fortune. Questions-call Sarah (x3693) or Jim (x401 0) 
"Hey Rocky, watch me pull a rabb~ out of my hat. • Alter Hours at the Under· ground Sat. Feb. 25 9:30pm 
St. Joeaph'a Medical Center Ia cur­rently accepting applications lor Playca... Providers In our early pa,..nt­lng program. Reaponalbllltlea Include providing ca... for young chlld,..n while ps,..nts attend aarly psrantlng claasee. Succeaaful candidates must have prior experience In child care. Own transportation to report to varying locations. High school graduate preferred. AM, afternoon and early PM available. Claaaea are two hours long. lnqul,.. In peraon at St. Joseph's Employment Office, Pavilion II, Suite 092, 707 E. Cadar, SB. We are an equal opportunity employ­er. 
I need a ride to Rochester, N.Y. on March 3 or 4 and A:lr a return ride to N.D. on March 6 or 7. II you can help me out. call x1985 or x2876 (ask lor Beth) I will help with any expenses! 
EASTER BREAK IN PHOENIX 4 nonstop confirmed round trip tix with boarding passes, O'hare to Phoenix on American Airlines. Leave Good Friday(3124), return 31.31. $844 lor all 4. Elkhart, 293·4700, 8 am-5 pm, M·F 
SMC CLASS OF 90 DOCTOR UP YOUR SENIOR YEAR!! VOTE AMORE. EH­RET, BLONG, VITALE SENIOR CLASS OFFICERS 
SCRUBSII 
SCRUBSII 
SCRUBS!! JADE GREEN TOPS AND BOTTOMS CALL TAMMY 284·5134 
NO JUNIOR FORMAL· Did you lind a necklace (with a broken clasp) in your sportcoat afterwards? II so, please call 284-5405. 
To everyone who saw 
CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING 
Saturday night at Theodores, thanks lor coming out. You were 
the best crowd Catholics ever had. 
I'd like to especially thank: 
·Theodores lor letting us play. 
-Dan, Tom, and Matt lor doing a 
professional job with the sound. 
-Susan's roommates who sure could 
"Shake your tail leather." 
·The girl who sang the words to 
"Kick", because I sure did know 
know them. 
·Steve and Pete lor letting every­
one at the LeMans formal know 
about Catholics. 
-Karen, and all the rest of you who gave the band the wonderful 
compliments. -All my friends lor thier 
tremendous support. 
Thanks again everyone. We had the best time! NICK 
Thenks to who was responsible lor get­ting the bombed birthday boy home from the Rejection party last Friday. Anyone involved please call 1779 so I can thank you as well as uncover what occured that night! 
BAND WANTED 1 OR 2 PIECE BANDS TO PLAY AT RESTAURANT INQUIRE 271.0782 ASK FOR NANCY, NICK OR MATT 
SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
Meeting tonight 127 Nieuwland 6:30 Everyone should attend SCIENCE OUARTERL Y 
Suzanne-"lour days is like an eternity." 
I need a ride to Boston lor Spring Break. Will help pay gas! Call Susan X4434 
TO THE REDHEAD ON THE SECOND FLOOR OF THE LIBRARY WHO USED TO WEAR A CORNELL SWEATSHIRT: YOU LOOKED AWESOME AT THE JPW GALA FRIDAY NIGHT P.S. CAN ALL ME'S DANCE LIKE YOU? ·A. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY to the sexiest man on campus! Call JOHN at # 3410 and wish him a happy 21 stl 
autocratic rule is cool DAN FOR KING 
Interested in being a manager lor 
THEODORE'S next year? We are now 
accepting applications lor the following 
positions: 
GENERAL MANAGER 
PROGRAMMING MANAGER 
PROMOTIONS MANAGER 
OPERATIONS MANAGER 
ACCOUNTS MANAGER 
and 14 assistant managers. Applications 
available in Student Activities Office and 
due March 3. Have tun while gaining 
practical work experience!!! 
anyone going to NJ lor spring break need a rider? II so please call Cara x2521. Will pay! 
To our special friend. 
Thanks lor a wonderful time. Just 
remember. we're by your side. 
DEFINITELY 
From, 
The Dinner Club 
ST. JUDE: PRAY FOR US. 
BUGS get psyched lor TOADBUG b-day Friday!!!!BUUUUUUUUUGI!! 
JUNIORSIIIIIIII JUNIOR CLASS RETREAT-FRI.24-25 Sign up In Jr. Class OfflceM.F,1-3 ?'a-Contact STACY O'GRADY xt241 
Anne-The Doctor is IN 
GARBAGE I 
4:30 Wed esc 
Disgusted at Campus waste? lecture 
4:30 Wed esc 
Recycling Info 4:30 Wed CSC 
NEED A DATE?? Lat our computer choose your date lor the Campus-Wide SYR. Hurry!! COMPUTER DATING SERVICE Ia only available Ill Wednesday! 
VOTE VOTE WITH EXPERIENCE MELICHAR BERKOWSKI DIETZLER SCHNELL FOR A "MEMORABLE" SENIOR YEAR!! 
Ride needed to Ba!IQC area over Easter Break Prefer leaving earljj'teturning late Call Rob •1159 
HEY! Wanna have fun Feb. 24? Try the ALL CAMPUS SYR -Don't have a date? ·DONT WORRY! W~h computer dating we can match you up with someone special! Give it a try!! 
JUST SAY YES!!! 
JUST SAY YES ... to a monarchical student govt. DAN FOR KING!!! JUST SAY YES ... 
Hey you guys that hang out in 1016 Grace: Maybe we are geting psyched lor this. FIVE lEWis-STARS 
ATTENTION NO MEN: Shealyn McGuire will be 20 this week! 
STONE PUPPIES Acuostic Duo Saturday Night SENOR KELLY'S 
WANTED: DRUMMER lor acoustic folk-rock bend. Must have time, talent. & desire Call Joe# 1803 or 
# 2546. 
'WADDLE" YOU DO WITHOUT US?! 
McGOWAN 
NEIMAN 
SULLIVAN VOTE ON WED. FEB. 22 GET YOUR FEET WET!! 
Tom C.­Have a MERRY 20th!! 
'WADDLE" YOU DO WITHOUT US?! 
McGOWAN 
NEIMAN 
SULLIVAN 
VOTE WED. FEB 22 GET YOUR FEET 
WET!! 
ROSE, SANDY AND MOST ESPE· CIALL Y MIMI...THANKS FOR THE AD­VICE AND SUPPORT THAT I NEEDED FOR MY BIG WEEKEND. I'VE NEVER HAD SUCH SPECIAL FRIENDS AS YOU ... ESPECIALL Y YOU, MIMI!!(ha) love, rozel 
'WADDLE" YOU DO WITHOUT US?! 
McGOWAN 
NEIMAN 
SULLIVAN VOTE WED. FEB 22 STUDENT BODY OFFICERS GET YOUR FEET WET!! 
LEMANS FORMAL; EXPERIENCE POINTS IN THE GAME OF LIFE· -that hole! He's already talking to another girl! -OH S. Did you meet my "little sister?" -y'know, I can imagine licking your waist. -LINES. and tigers and bears. oh my -not in the chapel! -Did I ever tell you I'm a genetic throwbeck -I've had my principles defined since soph year HS and they don't include you! -Well C, they slam­dance very well. ·Really, he's not my big brother-hhe's my date -J, you're awful quiet bacl< there. -1 swear-it said 2:40! -Were you with my date TOO ?!? 
PARROT HEADS FOREVER END GO 
RIDE NEEDED TO FLORIDA FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL KAREN 284­5439. 
To Tracie 0. and all Swimmers­GOOD LUCK in West Virginia 
Yes, that includes you Amy 

-------~~~-------~----~­
Tuesday, February 21, 1989 The Observer 
Sooners still No.1 in AP poll 
made their first-ever appear~ three places with two victories
Associated Press 
ances in the poll. last week, were followed by St. Mary's, Calif., 22-3, joined Syracuse, which held the No.6 
Oklahoma on Monday be­the Top Twenty at No. 19, while spot, and Missouri, which came the first No. 1 team in Ball State, 21-2, took the final dropped from third after losing five weeks to hold the top spot spot in the rankings. at Iowa State last week. in The Associated Press college Arizona, 20-3, held second, Syracuse, 22-5, split two basketball poll. receiving two first-place votes games last week, losing to 
The Sooners did need some and 1,224 points. Georgetown and beating Prov­extra time, however, as they Georgetown, 20-3, improved idence. The Orangemen had were taken to overtime before one place from last week with 934 points, four more than Mis­beating Kansas 94-89last week. 1,146 points. Indiana, which souri, 22-5. That and a victory over beat Michigan at the buzzer in Louisville, 18-5, and Duke, 19­Colorado, also on the road, im­its only game last week, 4, each jumped two places from proved Sooners to 23-3 and jumped from ninth to fourth. last week. The Cardinals earned them 61 of the 65 first­The Hoosiers, 21-5, received moved to eighth with 852 points, place votes from the nation­one first-place vote and 976 while Duke had 810. wide panel of sportswriters and points, four more than North Illinois, fifth last week, broadcasters and 1,296 points. Carolina, 22-5. rounded out the Top Ten after 
Meanwhile, two schools The Tar Heels, who jumped losing 72-52 at Wisconsin. The 

THEY LOVED IT IN LONDON, RAVED ABOUT IT IN NEW YORK! 
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SOUTH BEND 
"AN EVENING OF SHEER HAPPINESS!" 
--New York T1mes 
JAMfS YOUNG 
"'ME AND MY GIRL' IS A 
SHERI GARY
HONEY! ILOVE IT!" 
-New York Post 
CaWART GAGE
"A BRIGHT, COLORFUL, BOISTEROUS, GIDDY ENTERTAINMENT! RADIATES GOOD CHEER!" 
-N. ~ Da•fy News 
"AN EVENING OF PURE FUN! WILL HAVE YOU HUMMING THE SONGS LONG AFTER YOU'VE LEFT THE THEATRE!" 
-Wall Street Journal 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM-SOUTH BEND 
February 24 -25 • 26 Friday 8 pm, Saturday 2 & 8 pm, Sunday 1:30 pm EST TICKETS: Eves.-$28.50 $24.50 $17.50 $13.50 Matinees-$25.50 $22.50 $16.50 $13.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE 
STUDENT CENTER OR 
BOX OFFICE OPEN -CALL 284-9190 Monday through Friday 10 a.m. • 5 p.m. 10 a.m. until curtain on show days 
Group & Student Discounts MasterCard & VISA Accepted $3.00 Senior Citizen Discount Matinees Only 
ABroadway Theatre League Pre~entation 
SHARE THE ROMANCE, FEEL THE MUSIC, ENJOY THE HIGH SOCIETY HIJINX! 
Fighting Illini, 21-4, had 696 votes, 105 more than West Vir­-. ginia, which led the Second Ten and holds the nation's current longest winning streak at 20 games. 
The Mountaineers were fol­lowed by Florida State, Mic­higan, Iowa, Seton Hall, Stan­ford, North Carolina State, Nevada-Las Vegas, St. Mary's and Ball State. 
Ohio State and Louisiana State both dropped from the Top Twenty. 
P-------------~----------~
Pre-Law Society Dayton 
continued from page 16
cepting Applications for: 
is questionable after receiving an elbow to his right eye during President the Houston game that re­quired seven stitches. Guard
Vice-President 
Tim Singleton has a thigh con­tusion, and guard Joe Fredrick 
Treasurer 
is just out of the infirmary after Secretary I News Letter Editor battling the flu. "The freshmen will be im­portant against Dayton," said
Applications can be picked up at 101 Phelps. "That depth is very im­portant to us. The confidence
O'Shaughnessy and returned by 
in that depth is what's going to Febru 24 make us that solid a basketball team." 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
A PROGRAM FOR FRESHMEN WHO WISH TO LEARN MORE ABOUT A MAJOR IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
6:30 P.M. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1989 
ROOM 122 HAVES-HEAL V BUILDING 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 

page 12 
Upsets make Pitt difficult to ignore 
Associated Press player. He was a great player when he was recruited and he's 
PITTSBURGH--Thanks to adjusted very well to his year Brian Shorter, who is having off. The thing that surprises me one of the best rookie seasons is he's only a sophomore." in Big East Conference history, Shorter is the No.2 scorer to upset specialist Pitt's season Wilt Chamberlain in Philadel­likely will be lasting a lot phia high school history and al­longer. most certainly would have bro­
When the Panthers, 14-10, ken the record if he hadn't surprised then-No. 12 Seton played his senior season at Oak Hall82-76last Saturday, it was Hill CVa.) Academy. their fifth victory this season over a nationally ranked op­Shorter sat out last season ponent. Pitt earlier upset then­because of Proposition 48. But No. 2 Syracuse, (No. 3) Okla­Pitt coach Paul Evans said homa, <No. 2) Georgetown and Shorter refused to sit around (No. 9) Seton Hall. while sitting out, and instead 
"I've heard they're an up­hit the weights--and the books. and-down team, but every time Shorter cut his weight from I see them, they're up," Seton 235 pounds to 217, trimmed his Hall coach P .J. Carlesimo said. body fat from 21 percent to 16 "To me, they're definitely an percent and put his grades in NCAA tournament team." order. 
One Panther who hasn't en­dured a roller-coaster season is "Basketball means so much Shorter, the 6-foot-6 sophomore more to him than it does to the forward who quickly has made other so-called superstars," Panthers fans forget about Evans said. "It's what got him backboard-shattering Jerome out of Philadelphia. A lot of Lane's premature departure to kids say, 'I want to be a pro,' the NBA. but they don't work hard at it, 
Shorter is averaging 19.9 they just want the glory. Brian points and 9.8 rebounds per really wants it." game a better rookie season than those of former Big East Shorter, second in the Big stars Patrick Ewing and Chris East in scoring and rebounding Mullin--and often has played prior to Monday night's game his best against the best teams. against Villanova, has been A His season-high 37 points came named the conference's New­
Mark Aguirre (dribbling), shown here In his first Houston 110-90, Chicago bested Portland 102-98, 
in Pitt's 99-91 upset of Okla­comer of the Week three times. 
game with the Detroit Pistons after being traded Denver took Detroit 103-101, New Jersey
homa, now No.1. That's more than any other 
from Dallas, scored eight points in his debut for quenched Miami 117-109, Atlanta trimmed the 
After Shorter had 26 points player, including freshmen 
Motown. Adrian Dantley, then player for whom L.A. Clippers 114-100, Dallas corralled San An­
and seven rebounds against stars Billy Owens of Syracuse 
Agulrre was traded, has yet to report to the tonto 105-93, Utah blasted Phoenix 118-92 and
Seton Hall, Carlesimo said, "I and Alonzo Mourning of Geor­
Mavericks. In the NBA last night, Cleveland beat the L.A. Lakers nipped Sacramento 100-97. 
senior captain Brian Kalbas. under, and played his best : • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • "It is the first time in my four ' 
match at Notre Dame." • *ACT NOW--LAST CHANCE TO SIGN-UP* : 
years that we had come back from a 4-2 deficit." According to Bayliss, his • • 
squad's success could be short­: DEADLINE TUESDAY, FEB. 21ST : 
No. 1 DiLucia and No. 3 Wal­lived because 8-1 Indiana Uni­• c•~U.C.Iio c•IIIUY • ter Dolhare posted the two versity is coming to the Eck • t~\... TOiil ~ • singles victories that gave the Pavillion today at 3 p.m. : ;?$ ==· P.O. Box 56 So. Bend, ln. 46624 : Irish the suprising victory. Already this season, the 
Hoosiers have conquered No. DiLucia found himself in a 15 Arkansas, a highly talented three-hour-and-ten-minute Oklahoma squad and No. 18 
think Brian Shorter is a great getown. 
r,=~~~==~~~~~~ 
lack. The 5-10 freshman came
Tennis 
up on the winning end in three sets, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3.

continued from page 16 
is currently accepting applications for the 
hours, faced the Tar Heels of "All weekend David was ex­
following position: 
North Carolina. North Carolina cellent in singles and doubles," holds the No. 1 spot in southeas­said Bayliss. "He has the tem­tern U.S., and has traditionally perament of a champion and a vied for a top ten spot in the great big heart." 
Assistant Production national poll. In this, the fourth meeting between the two No. 3 Walter Dolhare's play 
Manager
schools, the Irish fell into a 4-2 has come full circle and is deficit after the singles play. playing at a particularly high But the squad regrouped to level. In the UNC contest, Dol­sweep the doubles competition hare disposed of Brian Jones, 
for further information, contact Alison Cocks 
and upset UNC, 5-4. 4-6, 6..3, 6-3. 
at 239-5303 or 283-4042. 
"The three doubles teams "Walter had a career had to concentrate on their own match," said Bayliss. "He beat individual matches," said the No. 9 player in 18-and­
marathon against David Pol-Tennessee. 
NOTRE DAME 
BENGAL BOUTS SEMI-FINALS lVednesday,Feb.22 7:30p.m. 
.• ..COMEDIANS......... '" 

•
• 

• c,ZIP104wm 
• • ~ CC£1111 • •
• 

• «~n®» ~~o@~~® • 
• Prices 
• 

: Daytona Beach: $199 full package South Padre Island: $305 full •
•

: $125 Driving Pack $207 drive •
• • CALL NOW!I • 
BAHAMA ADVENTURE 
ORGANIZER GOES FREE 
SPRING BREAK SPECIAL 
YOU HAVE YOUR OWN SAILBOAT 
WITH CAPTAIN. SAIL TO NASSAU. 
ISLAND HOPPING BOAT LEAVES 
MIAMI. FL AT MIDNIGHT SATURDAY 
RETU"lNS AT B·OO AM. NEXT 
SATURDAY. ONE WEEK WITH 
MEALS AND ALL EXPENSES. 
535000 PER PERSON.NO EXTRAS 
BOATS SLEEP FROM TEN TO TWENTY YOU MUST ChARTER WHOLE BOAT NO PASSPORT 
REQUIRED CONTACT 
BAREFOOT ISLAND 
CRUISES 
P.O. BOX 1462. MIAMI. FL 33101 
-
305-379-8069 
~ 

---~---------~-~-------~ 
Tuesday, February 21, 1989 
Irish women lose to No. 3 Lady Vols 
Special to The Observer 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn.-­Sheila Frost scored 31 points and grabbed 12 rebounds as No. 3 Tennessee defeated Notre Dame 98-43 in wo­men's basketball Monday night. The loss was the most decisive ever suffered by the Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team. 
Tennessee improved to 25­2 with the victory while the Irish slipped to 15-8. 
The Lady Volunteers took an early 25-4 lead and led 43­16 at halftime. 
Tennesee scored 10 straight points to take a 41­point lead, 95-34, with 4:02 left. 
Bridgette Gordon added 21 points for Tennessee. 
Karen Robinson scored 12 points for Notre Dame. 
Tennessee now leads the series with Notre Dame 6-0, thrashing the Irish last year 91-71 at the JACC. The pre­vious worst loss ever dealt the Irish was also at the hands of the Lady Volun­teers, 90-55 duuring the 1986­87 season. 
Notre Dame next travels to Dayton on Thursday for a 
6:00 p.m. matchup with the Flyers. 


AP Pnoto 

New Jersey Devils goalie Sean Burke stops this Monday. The victory put the Rangers atop the shot by Ulf Dahlen of the New York Rangers, .but NHL's Patrick Division with a 31-22-8 record. the Rangers eventually exorcised the Devils 7-4 
Many Irish bound for IC4A's 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Page Editor 
For further information, contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO ual performances, which was Sports Writer the reason we were down there," said Head Coach Joe 
A handful of athletes on the Piane. "Needless to say, I was men's track team competed in pleased with the outcome." the Indiana Intercollegiates Highlighting Irish perfor­over the weekend in an attempt mances was Raghib Ismail, to qualify for upcoming meets who won the 55-meter dash in or to work on their events, and 6.26 seconds, just missing qual­the results were encouraging. ifying for the NCAA Champion­
The team was concerned ships by .03 seconds. The run with individual performances was Ismail's best to date. and had no regard for overall The freshman from Wilkes­team competition. Barre, Pa. also competed in the 
"We got some good individ-long jump for the first time of 
..--------------------------------• the season, and impressed
everybody by jumping 23-feet, 10-inches, good enough to qualify for the IC4A (Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Atheletes of America) Championships on March 4-5. 
Teammate Rusty Setzer qualified for the IC4A's in the 200 by finishing in 21.7 seconds. Setzer also made it to the final heat in the 55 meters with Is-
NOTRE DAME 
mail, but scratched coming out of the blocks. 
Sophomore Richard Culp ran the 400 meters in 49.23, which was sufficient to qualify him to the IC4A's in that event. 
Senior Dave Warth travelled to Bloomington to run the 600, in which he recorded a 120.23 time. Piane said this will give Warth some additional leg speed in the 800, his usual race. 
Freshman Sean Schneider just missed qualifying for the IC4A's in the mile, running it in 4:13.20. Schneider missed the qualifying mark by .06 seconds. 
Sophomore John Cole, who already qualified for the IC4A's in the high jump, surpassed his previous performance by jumping 6-feet, 10-inches. 
This weekend the Irish host the Alex Wilson Invitational, a high-powered meet with many NCAA qualifiers expected. 
FIGHTING IRISH 
The tlfiZZ Com etition 
vs Musical Acts interested in competing, pick up application at 
secretary's desk on 2nd floor LaFortune. 
WESTERN MICHIGAN 
BRONCOS 
Limited to first 15 acts. 
8:30-11 :30 p.m. Sat. March 18
TUESDAY FEBUARY 21 AT THE JACC 
at STEPAN CENTER CASH PRIZES
7:30PM 

----~ ~-­
-
Observer 21, 1989 
Irish hockey to end season 
Notre Dame faces off against Western Michigan in finale 

Baseball 
continued from page 16 
"He has as much potential as anybody in college baseball," said Murphy. "The two-year layoff has hurt him, but I look for Frank to have a great year." 
Freshmen Jason Martinez and Corey Mee will serve as utility players for the Irish. 
OUTFIELD 

Junior Dan Peltier (.414, 7, 70), a pre-season All-America selection by Copper­tone-Collegiate Baseball, moves from right field to cen­terfield. 
"Dan Peltier's a ballplayer," said Murphy. "We could stick him at shortstop, and he'd do the job ... and he's lefthanded. Moving him to center is going to give him the ability to have more leadership." 
Peltier set school records with 89 hits and 21 doubles in a 1988 season that saw the Clifton Park, N.Y., resident post a .581 on-base percentage. He will bat third in the Irish lineup. 
Freshman Craig Counsell of Whitefish Bay, Wise., will bat second in the lineup and play left field. The rest of the Irish lineup will shuffle according to various circumstances, such as whether the opposing pitcher is lefthanded or righthanded. 
"Craig's an infielder by trade, but he's got a great sense for baseball," said Murphy. "He's not exceptional in any one area, but he's a total player." 
James Sass (.301, 0, 13) returns to the outfield, moving from left field to right field. The senior from Louisville, Ky., posted impressive numbers late January. He had 44 points in 30 games. 
Presently, the Broncos are in seventh place in the CCHA with a 7-17-6 conference record and 10-21-6 overall. They've been especially cold of late, going 0­7-1 in their last eight games, including a sweep last weekend at the hands of the defending NCAA champions, the Lake Su­perior State Lakers. 
Since Green's injury, the scoring slack has been picked up by junior center Paul Polil­lo, with 12 goals, 38 assists, and 50 points, and senior winger Ron Hoover, 28-18-46. In the nets, senior Bill Horn has played 32 games (9-17-6) with a 4.27 goals-against average and .867 save percentage. Horn may, however, be rested tonight and replaced by fresh­man Rob Laurie, 1-4, 6.25 GAA, .795 save percentage. 
Still, the Irish have an oppor­tunity to show how far they have come this year since their 
automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. Murphy does not quite agree with that, espe­cially since defending confer­ence champion Evansville returns seven starters. 
"Our program has received a lot of recognition with the wins over Miami, and we deserve it," said Murphy, "but all the speculation doesn't mean a thing in baseball." 
The Irish open the season with road trips to the states of Texas, Florida and North Carolina. Along with the Miami and Texas games, Notre Dame will face 1988 NCAA partici­pant Pennsylvania and Sout­first game, an 8-2 loss at West­ern Michigan. Their strong showing against Michigan two weekends ago, coupled with their 7-2 bombardment of Lake Forest last Wednesday, has in­stilled some confidence in the team. 
"We had a great weekend of practice," said Irish coach Ric Schafer of this past weekend's outdoor practices forced by the unavailability of ice at the JACC. Schafer also indicated that he would go with basically the same line-up as he has all year rather than playing younger players just to give them some experience. "We have loyal seniors who deserve to play," 
Adding further interest to the game is freshman David Bankoske's effort to break the Notre Dame freshman assist record set in 1970 by John Noble. The record is 35. Going into the game, Bankoske has 34. 

-
The Observer I Scott McCann Defenseman Bill Hoelzel (3) and the Notre Dame hockey team close out the season tonight at the JACC against Western Michigan. Brian McMahon has a preview of the season finale at right. 
heaste'rn Conference team Vanderbilt. Notre Dame has 19 road games before its home opener March 29 . 
"Our schedule's much toug­her," said Murphy. "For us to try and repeat the record we had last year would be impossible, but I never put anything past these guys or anything past Notre Dame. 
"What we need to do is con­tinue our team identity of blue­
. collar, aggressive play. We want to leave the opponent with the feeling that when you strap it on against Notre Dame, you'd better be ready for a dog­fight." 
last season after switching from the football team to baseball. 
The Irish hope they can have more luck with football players this spring, as Notre Dame flanker Pat Eilers provides depth in the outfield. Eilers played baseball his freshman year at Yale before transfer­ring to Notre Dame. 
"I picture him the same way he is in football," said Murphy. "He finds a way to get on the field. He does everything cor­rectly, he works as hard as anyone, He's making that transition of not playing for a few years, but it's amazing he's 
made the rapid development he has." 
Sophomore outfielder Mike Rotkis (..372, 0, 12 in 28 games) has a good chance of starting at designated hitter. 
CATCHER 
What was a problem area early last season has turned 

By BRIAN McMAHON Sports Writer 
The University of Notre Dame hockey team wraps-up its regular season schedule tonight when the Western Mic­higan Broncos invade the JACC. 
Since the Irish will not com­pete in a postseason conference playoff this year, this is the last game of the year for Notre Dame, as well as the end of the careers of 10 Irish seniors. 
"This is it for us seniors," said senior co-captain Matt Hanzel. "We'd like to finish with a good taste in our mouths." 
The Broncos, like the Irish, have had a disappointing season. Predicted in preseason polls to finish as high as third place in the powerful Central Collegiate Hockey Association, they were decimated by injur­ies all year, including the loss of leading scorer Jeff Green in 
"Our object is to make the people hit it and give our defense a chance to make the plays and not walk anybody," said Murphy. "Great stuff doesn't make for great pitchers, you have to know how to pitch. That's what we're trying to impress upon these pitchers." 
RELIEF PITCHERS 
Junior Mike Coffey (2-0, 5.79) will try to replace the graduated Mike Harmon (6-4, 5.18, 5 saves) as Notre Dame's closer. 
Another junior, Tony Livorsi 
(3-1, 4.97) will serve as a setup l~!!!!~~~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l
man, as will freshmen Tom Gulka of Lake Oswego, Ore., and Dan Marzec of Palatine, Ill. 
"When you lose a guy with Harmon's temperament, similar to Hutson, it's very, very hard to replace," said 
Murphy. "He had that bulldog --=====~-:;;;::;::;:;:;~:;:=~-~==~~
mentality we're looking for in p 
1 9 8 9 W 0 R L D T 
WED. MARCH 8TH, 7:30 P.M. NOTRE DAME JOYCE ACC 
Prices: '11.00 & '9.00 *ASK ABOUT SPECIAL COURTSIDE SEATS'" 
into one of the most stable de­partments on the 1989 Notre Dame team. Junior Ed Lund (.285, 1, 30) is the man respon­sible for that transformation. 
"His development is as­tonishing," said Murphy. "He's come from being an also­ran to a frontrunner, and he's one of the better catchers in the Coffey or Livorsi right now." 

OUTLOOK 
In the wake of the sweep over Miami, both Collegiate Baseball and Baseball America have predicted the Irish to win the Midwest Col­legiate Conference and earn an 
nation." 
Martinez and freshman Matt Krall will back up Lund. 
STARTING PITCHERS 
Seniors Erik Madsen (8-4, 
3.74 ERA) and Mike Passilla (7-4, 5.30) and junior Brian Piotrowicz (7-3, 4.86) return to the rotation. Freshman Brian Conway of Indianapolis will join them, replacing the graduated Kevin Chenail. 

HolyCrossFathers 
Vocation Counseling 
How dol know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and formation program for becoming a priesti 
,.., . 
What scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 

What are the various 
AIR TRAVEL 

apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests::> 
IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS 
Hbwdo I pray if l"m thinking of a vocation to the priesthOO<'
TICKETS DELIVERED 
and I'm not sure? 
II For a personal, c~nfidential interview with no obligation.
CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 255-7272 
~ase wnte or call the vocation directo Rev. John Conley, CSC 
'"" .,;J ~· Rev. Paul Doyle, CSC
' ;~ ~ P.O. Box 541 
~ toursUtrGwl 

'-;;(7 ''-~~ Notre Da~e. Ind. 46556·0541 
For appomtment, 

117 S. MAIN STREET call between 8:30a.m. 
MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 and 4:00 p.m. 
._.......
,:~,m~~w.~~:: 
219 239·6385 





Tuesday, February 21, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

3 p.m. Tennis: Notre Dame vs. Indiana University, Eck Ten­nis Pavilion. · 
3:30p.m. Chemical engineering graduate seminar: "The Use of Surface-Active Agents in Protein Purification Methods," by Ruben Carbonell, North Carolina State University, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4 p.m. Kellogg Institute lecture "Reminiscences on Chile, 1985-1988," by Harry Barnes, former U.S. ambassador to Chile, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
7 p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre film "Mag­nificent Obsession," directed by Douglas Kirk, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30p.m. Hockey vs. Western Michigan, Joyce ACC Ice Arena. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
8 p.m. AT&T Visiting Scholar series "A Farewell to Welfare," by David Ellwood, Harvard University, Room 122 Hayes­Healy. 
8 p.m. Theology lecture: "Jesus' Mission and Death on the Cross," by Marinos DeJonge, University of Lieden, Nether­lands, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
9 p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre film "Little Big Man," directed by Arthur Penn, Annenberg Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
French Bread Pizza Burrito Bar Egg Foo Young Baked Scrod 
COMICS 
Buzz Mcflatop 
Saint Mary's 
Sliced Ham Cheese Enchiladas Shrimp Stir Fry Deli Bar 
''.5weeP.5 weeK:' II£.W5f'f/f7eK5 NllTIONWI~ liKe MOIV!TOKIN& THe KEI/l?eKSHff7 Kf/TfN&S OF THerK COMICS 
AU.. TH/5 WEeK. \ 
~ ~· ~ 
so mrs rs J115T llt7Ke­e-wt?a~ce THilT THe 
COfi'f'ORIITt f'llf7fff( 5HfJFFtlff(6 fN CONTT?OL OF llMet\fCil'S &Rti/T CKMT1Vt tl1et/'fllfl15
IlK€ A 8(/Mf3UN& /3(/NCH OF 80NtHei/ClS . 

Michael F. Muldoon 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ALAN 
D E L I 
f-7+-::::+:=~J..:=:+.,;,..J 
1-':+::+::B 
~-'=+=+='-~~ L..:.L:.:.&.:..:.~..=.L.:.r 
Berke Breathed 
12:30am ATIACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES 
SAT: WINTERFEST ICE SKATING
I 

10:30-12pm FREE SKATES & ADMISSION W/STUDENT ID FREE COOKIES & COCOA 
SAT: ALL NIGHT MOVIES -12:30am for $1 :00 

56 Early Irish writing system 57 Giver~-(try) 60 Anka or Newman 
61 Former name of a Colorado River site 
64 Other 65 Church 
projection 66 Artless 67-theline 
(conforms) 68 Baltic native 69 Discourage 
DOWN 1 Historian's subject 2 Canadian prov. 3 Celebrity 4 Chess pieces 5 Anoint, old style 6 Salad ingredient 24 Uppity one 33Havean-54-Alto 7 Stirs the ground 
25 German term of 55 A river at York s Pile address 35 Alarm signal 
56 Evict 9 North Sea 26 Tapestry 
39 Kismet 57 Mine entrance 
feeder 40 French painter 
27-powder 
58 Donated1771-183510 Metallic trim (scrammed) 41 Den 59 HeJ:)rew11 Writer Anita 28 Roman poet, 46 Wild As ran dogs measure 12 Siouan born in Sparn 

47 A fledgling in an 61 French sacral 13 Favorites 30 Type of rrng aerie event 
18 Engine parts 31 "Tellit­48 Fokker fighter in 62 Unclose, to the 22 Prepare Gath" WWI Bard leftovers 
32 Appomattox 52 Correct 63 Norma or 23 RoII top, e.g. figure 53 Small barracuda Charlotte 
ACROSS 
1-de Mallorca, . Spanish port 
6 Candy or sugar follower 1 o Hoof sound 14 Newcomer to the U.S.A. 15 Furniture style 16 Tabled'­
17 Mosslike herbs 19 Elihu, the statesman 20 Beach 
acquisition 21-Porsena 22 Derby winner's 
garland 
23 Example, for short 

24 A brother of Ham 26 Salt tree 29 Salisbury Plain monument 34 Stir up 36 River in SE Eire 37 "-pro nobis" 38 Symbol of strength 
42 Alias letters 43"-nome," Verdi ar;a 
44 Besmirch 45 Light brown shades 49 "-each life 
50 Makes haste 51 Little, e.g. 53 Number 3 wood 

inte 
FRIDAY: 

CAMPUS WIDE SYR 9:00-12:00am, NORTH DINING HALL 
SATURDAY: 
est 

Winter fun 
VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT 2:05am ANIMAL HOUSE 
12-4pm, SOUTH QUAD, 4:00am LIFE OF BRIAN SIGN UPS IN LaFORTUNE INFO. DESK AT CUSHING SIGN UP INDIVIDUALLY OR IN TEAMS 

Sports
page 16 Tuesday, February 21, 1989 
•

It's baseball season aga1n 
Pesavento, Peltier lead Pat Murphy's Irish on the field 
By STEVE MEGARGEE school records for home runs but for their leadership Assistant Sports Editor (18), runs batted in (74) and qualities, gives us a strong base total bases (148) in a season in the infield," said Murphy. 
The days of sneaking up on last year, is the most notable Pesavento, who had turned people are over for the Notre figure lost to graduation. down draft offers from the Bos­Dame baseball team. "Trying to replace Tim Hut­ton Red Sox and the Toronto 
A 39-22 1988 season and last son and the type of year he Blue Jays the last two years, fall's two-game sweep over a had," said Murphy, "you're not set a school record with 38 Miami team currently ranked going to do it. We have to find stolen bases last season and first in the country basically as­other people to pick up the will lead off the Irish batting sured that fact. It does not bot­slack in other areas." order. Baseball America rated her Irish coach Pat Murphy one Below is a position-by­the senior from Lockport, Ill., bit. position look at the Fighting as the eighth best shortstop in 
"That's a feather in our Irish team that opens its season the country. cap," said the second-year co­Thursday at Trinity. Freshman Joe Binkiewicz of ach, whose team set a school Wintersville, Ohio, should start record for consecutive wins INFIELD at first base, while sophomore 
(16) and wins in a season last Mike Coss (.230, 0, 16) returns year. "We don't want to sneak With last season's double­at third. up on people. We want to com­play combination of shortstop Murphy also is high on Frank pete against people when Pat Pesavento (.385, 1 home Jacobs, a tight end on the foot­they're at their best and run, 35 RBI last season) and ball team. Jacobs has not against the best." second baseman Mike Moshier played baseball since starring 
_,4!ifw' 

The Observer I David Fischer Notre Dame will face two of (.261, 2, 26) returning for a for Newport Catholic High Veterans Pat Pesavento (12) and Mike Moshier (3, In background) the nation's best teams this third year together, this looks School, but the sophomore form the returning double play tandem the Notre Dame baseball year in Miami and Texas year, to be Notre Dame's strongest could see time at first base or team will be counting heavily upon this season, especially early. but they'll do it without five of area. designated hitter. The Irish play their first 19 games on the road. Steve Megargee last year's starters. First "Having Pesavento and Mos­
baseman Tim Hutson, who set hier, not only for their abilities, see BASEBALL, page 14
previews the baseball season at right.. 
ND men's basketball team travels to Dayton for rematch 
By MOLLY MAHONEY ures, preventing Dayton from and 13, respectively, in a losing that they need a big win. Flyer points on the scoreboard. Sports Writer focusing on any one player. cause. "They'll be ready to play The combo has teamed with Ellis and Robinson wrecked But tonight the tables will be against the Irish." Corbitt, a 6-6 and a half, 215­
DAYTON, Ohio--The Dayton havoc upon the Flyers, tallying turned. Dayton fell to Saint Louis pound forward, who has estab­Flyers, who host the Notre 18 and 16 points, respectively. It is the Irish who must University on the road Feb. 18 lished himself as a force in the Dame men's basketball team Jackson contributed 11 to the travel, going to a University of and lost again on Feb. 21 to paint. tonight at 7:30, were not quite cause and Sweet and Bennett Davton Arena where Digger Evansville 109-83 behind Corbitt and 6-9 and a half, treated hospitably when they combined for 26 points off the Phelps' squads have had their Purple Ace sharpshooter Scott 220-pound senior forward Steve faced the Irish Jan. 31 : bench. troubles. Notre Dame has won Haffner's 65 points--the most Pittman, who can score inside 
In fact, five Irish players The Irish (16-5) made sure six of 12 contests at Dayton scored in 12 years in a Division or out, have been formidable went out of their way to make the visiting Flyers had a long during the Phelps era. I game. on the boards and will be sure that the Flyers went home ride back to Dayton by bruising The Flyers (11-12) take a two­Guards Knight and Ray looking to prevent the Irish seeing double after losing 85-75 them with a 46-28 rebound ad­game losing streak into Springer will try to get the dominance in the key that took in the Joyce ACC. vantage behind Robinson's tonight's contest. Flyers back on track tonight them out of the game earlier 
Notre Dame juniors Jamere team-leading 11 boards. "Dayton plays very, very and stop the Irish from gaining this season. Jackson and Keith Jackson and Dayton's Anthony Corbitt well at home," said Phelps. "I momentum after close wins The Irish will be battling in­freshmen LaPhonso Ellis, and Negele Knight were the think they're tired of losing. over LaSalle and Houston. jury and illness tonight. Ellis Daimon Sweet and Elmer Ben­only Flyers able to dent the They know before going into Both have done their share nett all scored in double fig-Irish armor as they scored 15 their conference tournament of scoring and passing to put see DAYTON, page 11 
Men's tennis to face Indiana 
Irish fresh off upset wins over Tarheels, Murray State 
By BOB MITCHELL taken a liking to playing an un­closer than the score indicates Sports Writer derdog role, with which they considering the fact that two of have been all too familiar late­the matches were decided byThe Notre Dame men's ten­ly. third-set tiebreakers that fell in nis heads into today's matchup "I think it is easier to play West Virginia's favor. with Indiana after having when you're on a roll," said Moreover, the Irish team was passed a small milestone over Bayliss. "And you have nothing without the services of their the weekend. to lose." No. 5 player Mike Wallace be­
The improved Irish stunned The Irish, who took a six cause of a nagging shoulder in­the No. 1 southeastern col­match winning streak into the jury.legiate team, North Carolina, contest, pummelled Murray "In fairness to West Virginia, 
and also knocked off perennial State 6-1. The Irish captured they were very inspired and power Murray State, while five singles victories ensuring played very well," said bowing to host West Virginia. them of their seventh victory. Bayliss. "The crowd was really 
Coming into the competition, The last two doubles matches into the match, and they were the young Irish squad could were not played because they just a little bit better than us." 
have easily played well and fell would not have altered the No. 1 Dave DiLucia earned to three top national teams. In­result of the competition. the sole Irish singles victory by stead, Notre Dame boosted its "When I saw Murray State decisively downing 27th­record to a suprising 8-3 mark. practicing, I thought there was ranked Joby Foley in straight
"The victories at West Vir­no place to hide," said Bayliss. sets, 6-3, 6-2. ginia are the highlights of my "But I thought we were well "Against West Virginia,brief coaching career at Notre prepared, and the courts were David was really on target and Dame," said Irish head coach much like our courts. The rea­totally disarmed Foley," said Bob Bayliss, who presently son we won is that we came out Bayliss of his No. 1 player'sholds a 307-110 career record. of the blocks very quickly." sixth consecutive win. "His "From hereafter, I'm not going Up next for Notre Dame was quickness was the difference 
to underestimate these guys." the West Virginia Moun­but he had some truly brilliant Notre Dame is in the midst taineers. The 20th-ranked passing shots." of rigorous 10-match stretch Mountaineers snapped the The Irish, taking on their Brian Kalbas leads the Notre Dame men's tennis team against Big 
during which, as of today, the Notre Dame's seven match third opponent in less than 48 Ten power Indiana tonight after the Irish won two of three matches Irish have won three out of winning streak by handing the at a tournament In West VIrginia over the weekend. Bob Mitchell four. The Irish seem to have Irish a 6-3 loss. The match was see TENNIS, page 12 has details at left. 







