
serY£r-
VOL. XXIII NO. 28 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Rebellion to oust Gen. Noriega fails, situation 'duly controlled' 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama­Troops loyal to Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega recaptured the headquarters of the Panama­nian Defense Forces on Tues­
• U.S. reaction to rebellion I page 5 
day and declared that they had crushed an attempted coup. 
Hebellious troopers seized the headquarters compound in the morning but apparently failed to capture Noriega, and loyal forces counterattacked. After a six-hour gunbattle, the gov­ernment elaimed vktory. 
"We want to underline that the situation in the eountry has bnen duly controllnd to guaran­tee the peace and tranquillity that the state should assure for its citizens," said a statement relnased by Justice and Interior Ministnr Olmedo Miranda. 
The United States has been trying to oust Noriega, the De­fense Forces chief who controls the government, for nearly two years. However, officials in Washington said they were not responsible for the attempted coup and U.S. troops were not involved. 
The Justice Department statement declared an 8 p.m.­to-5 a.m. curfew and said the news media could report only official statements on the re­volt. 
Panama's provisional presi­dent, Francisco Rodriguez, speaking to the U.N. General Assembly in New York, said an attempted coup against his government had been crushed. 
Rodriguez, in his midafter­noon address, did not accuse the United States of complicity in the revolt but said Washing­ton had undermined his nation with "financial terrorism, eco­nomic blackmail and political interference." 
It was the second unsuccess­ful attempt by Defense Forces dissidents to overthrow Nor­iega since March 1988, when a group of officers tried to re­move him. 
The United States has been been applying pressure on Panama, including economic sanctions, in an effort to force Noriega to step down. He was indicted by federal grand juries in Florida in February 1988 on drug charges. 
Rebel soldiers had seized the Defense Forces headquarters in downtown Panama City Tues­day morning. 
The rebels' claimed in a broadcast around noon that they had overthrown Noriega and retired top officers, but that communique was not re­peated. Loyalist forces later announced they were "ready to 
Gorbachev defeated in bid for ban on workers' strikes 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-President Mikhail Gorbachev suffered his first major policy defeat in the 4­month-old Soviet legislature Tuesday when it rejected his call for an emergency ban on workers' newly won right to strike. 
But Gorbachev told lawmak­ers he was satisfied with a compromise that imposes a se­lective ban on strikes in critical industries. He said it would "help restore a normal life." 
Gorbachev said Monday he wanted a ban on all strikes for the next 15 months to prevent anarchy from overwhelming the shaky Soviet economy. A wave of strikes, largely over ethnic and political conflicts, cost the country $6.5 billion in July and August alone. 
Strikes were ruthlessly sup­pressed for decades until Gor­bachev began his effort to turn the country from a dictatorship into one ruled by law. It was only last year that workers be­gan to succeed in pressuring for change by walking off the job. 
Gunman fires on pupils, kills custodian 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla.-A custodian was fatally shot Tuesday in front of about 100 children and teachers in an elementary school cafete­ria by a gunman who opened fire on pupils in the play· ground before he fled, police said. 
Police arrested Sylvester Ronald Mitchell, 24. who quit his job as a janitor at the school shortly before the shooting, warning that he was mad and that somebody would get hurt, said Leon~ County Undersheriff Larry Campbell. 
Harley Colvin, 35, was shot in the head with a .22-caliber rifle from across the cafete· ria, Campbell said. He died instantly as he sat on a stage. 
No children were injured at Killearn Lakes Elementary, but there was "total pande· monium for a short period of time," Campbell said. 
"We believe it was an em~ ployee-ex-employee situa­tion," he said. "There's been n{) indication as to any other motivation." 
Mitchell was arrested soon after the sho{)tjpg on charges of murder, aggra­vated assault and resisting arrest after a brief scuffie with police about five miles away and just 200 yards from another school. 
Mitchell quit his job. left the school, went to his car ~nd got a rifle; th~ij r~cCJ).· .•. tered the building through the cafeteria, Campbell said. •• ··· 
"One of the tea(!het$ was 
see SHOOTI page 4 

give their lives" in resistance. 
An officer loyal to Noriega later said the general was at an undisclosed location controlling the operations against the insurgents. 
White House spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater said Tuesday afternoon in Washington 'that officials had heard "rumblings" of the uprising. He said later it appeared that Noriega's forces "are back in control." 
A communique by loyalists, read over Channel 2 television, said, "The nationalist officers of all ranks and in all the bar­racks countrywide have con­firmed their loyalty to the fa­therland ... and to our Com­mander-in-Chief Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega." 
"The few who allowed them­selves to fall prey to cowardice, to foreign money and to trea­son are a minority who advo­cated foreign intervention," the communique added. "In the next few hours, this group will appear before justice, covered with shame." 
Firing around the Defense Forces headquarters tapered off in the early afternoon, but reporters were blocked from approaching the compound. 
Several ambulances were seen leaving the area, and witnesses 
see PANAMA I page 4 

It was the first time the new detailed law defining the right Supreme Soviet legislature to strike. stood up to the government and That could be as soon as opted for its own policy, though Monday, at the next session of it had previously rejected sev­the full legislature. Nearly half eral Cabinet nominees. The leg­the articles in the strike law islature's display of indepen­were approved Tuesday. dence was particularly signifi­The more controversial sec­cant because it came on a tions, which have yet to face package of emergency mea· floor debate, would ban strikes sures. that threaten human life or 
The compromise resolution, health, as well as any aimed at adopted by a vote of 364-6, overthrow of the government prohibits strikes in the trans­or violation of ethnic equality. port, energy, raw materials and It also would ban strikes in the metallurgy industries, but only transportation, communica­until the legislature passes a tions, energy and defense in­dustries, and among civil ser­vants. 
The draft also requires arbi­tration before a strike and al­lows the Supreme Soviet or its ruling Presidium to halt or de­lay strikes. 
It also says those found re­sponsible for a strike can be fired and fined up to three months' pay to help cover eco­nomic damages. It does not de­fine responsibility, leaving open the possibility that managers who fail to resolve labor dis­putes could be held as guilty as strike leaders. 

Junior class serves local social needs 
By MONICA YANT 
News Copy Editor 
The junior class has targeted the elderly, troubled teens and the family in designing their service projects this year. 
One way the class reaches out to senior citizens is through Student Advocate Volunteers for the Elderly (SAVE), a student group that visits nursing home residents once a week. The one and a half hour visits are designed to form a lasting relationship between the student and the resident, Chairwoman Christy Anderson said. 
Regular visits are essential, Anderson said, because "the person is counting on you." Whether the time is spent talk­ing or playing games, that brief interaction may be the bright spot in the resident's week, she said. 
Members of the junior class also travel four days a week to Safe Station, a temporary shel­ter for teens. The students pltty flag football, cards and watch MTV with the residents, Chair­woman Katie O'Connell said. 
"It's not like we get into in­depth discussions with them. It's more like a friend situa­tion. They like to talk to us. They can look up to us," she said. 
Residents of the Safe Station are young people between the ages of 12 and 17 who are temporarily removed, with parental permission, from their homes due to physical or men­tal abuse, although some may be dealing with drug problems. The Safe Station provides a temporary holding area, usu· ally for a less than two weeks, according O'Connell. 
Teens at Safe Station may be undergoing counseling, caught up in legal battles or experiencing the trauma of be­ing jostled from one foster home to another, while attend­ing school in most cases. 
"I don't think we play a big role in their rehabilitation," O'Connell said, "but we're a good release for them." 
The juniors have also planned a Christmas "Adopt-A-Family" project, which will provide a turkey dinner and gifts for local needy families. Five groups of students will each "adopt" a family chosen by the Salvation Army, and will purchase gifts for all the chil­dren, as well as prepare a holi­day dinner with turkey and canned goods. 
The adoptees will have no direct contact with the family until the day of the dinner, be· cause the Salvation Army feels 
see SERVICE I page 4 

page 2 The Observer Wednesday, October 4, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Pope John Paul II, with his travels to Africa and Asia, his peace initiatives and calls to forget the painful past, has made unprecedented openings to the Moslem world. Over the past two decades, and especially during John Paul's 11-year pontificate, the Roman Catholic Church has sought to erase the image of medieval crusades fought in the name of faith. "Moslems and Christians have generally understood each other badly and sometimes, in the past, have exhausted each other in polemics and wars," he said in Morocco four years ago as the first pontiff to set foot on Arab soil as an official state guest. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Angola's Marxist government and the U.S.-armed rebels opposing it are waging their battle in Washington's public relations arena this week. The Bush administration is holding open house for both sides, scheduling meetings with Angolan Foreign Minister Pedro van Dunem and a White House visit with President Bush for Jonas Savimbi, leader of the Angolan rebels. The U.S. diplomatic efforts are designed to head off a final collapse of Zairean-mediated truce accords reached last June between Savimbi, one of the largest recipients of U.S. covert aid, and the Soviet-backed government. 
"Smart toilets" and car radar will usher in the high-tech advances coming in the 1990s, while bad service, loud rock music and Mexican beer will become passe, says "The American Forecaster 1990." Other trends on the rise for 1990 are New Age radio, portraits commissioned for ego gratification and "wet" beer to serve on the rocks, says Kim Long, author of the yearly book. White will be the fashionable color in clothing for women, who will favor shorter hair, he says. Men will grow their hair longer and wear wider ties, the Forecaster predicts. 
Students In San Antonio's Edgewood Independent School District have learned what it means to struggle. At school, in buildings in need of extensive renovation, they have had few specialized classes and fewer sports programs. But their dropout rate is low. Their superintendent is recognized by educators statewide. This is where the battle began to topple Texas' public school finance system, to gain financial equality between rich and poor districts, and where students, educators, lawyers and legislators rejoiced Monday over the unanimous Texas Supreme Court ruling declaring the finance system unconstitutional. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
Alan Matheney is suing St. Joseph county officials, claim­ing they violated his constitutional rights while he was held on charges he killed his ex-wife during a furlough from a state prison. The suit was filed in U.S. District Court against the county police department, the jail physician, the county prosecutor and the deputy prosecutor assigned to try Matheney's case. Matheney, who is charged with the murder of his ex-wife, Lisa Bianco, claims he has been refused medical treatment and medication, denied ac­cess to a law library, denied exercise because he is kept in solitary confinement and denied the right to a fair trial. 
Four Allison Transmission employees from Indianapo­lis will drive 15 tons of food and two dump trucks to Charleston, S.C., this week to help victims of Hurricane Hugo. Allison's dis­tributor in Charleston, Dixie Power Systems, urged officials at the company's Indianapolis plants to participate in the relief efforts, Robert Clark, general manager of Allison, said in a letter dis­tributed Tuesday. "Our employees hastened to the call for help and donated about 15 tons of canned and boxed food items," Clark wrote. 
WEATHER 

Cool 

Sunny and cool today, highs from the middle to upper 50s. Clear and cool tonight, low in the upper 30s. Mostly sunny and warmer Thursday, high in the middle 60s. 
ALMANAC 
On October 4: 
e In 1777: George Washing­ton's troops launched an as­sault on the British at German­town, Pa. The Americans suf­fered heavy casualties. e In 1940: Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini conferred at Brenner Pass in the Alps, where the Nazi leader sought Italy's help in fighting the British. e In 1957: The Space Age be­gan as the Soviet Union launched into orbit Sputnik, the first manmade satellite. e ln 1958: The first trans-At­lantic passenger jetliner service was begun by British Overseas Airways Corporation with flights between London and New York. 
MARKET UPDATE 

llerllet Upclete for October 3, teatt 

Volume in shares 

150,850,750 
NYSE Index 

194.90 'to.93 
S&P Composite 

350.87 +1.72 
Dow Jones Industrials 

2,713.72 t-20.90 
Precious Metals Gold • $0.70 to $371.40 I oz. 
Silver+ 3.0¢ to $5.30 I oz. 
Source: AP 

lnformdfiOI1 comp1led from Observer Wlfes and Observer staff repons 
State of the University: Ther~'s room for bettering 
The gist of Father Edward Malloy's state of the University address Monday is that we're good now, but we need to get better in a few spots. 
Malloy told faculty that the University has made big improvements in its academic life but needs to work on the campus side. He cited a need for some new buildings and improvements to the Hesburgh Library, which was ranked near the bottom of several national surveys of research libraries. 
"Obviously bricks and mortar, while important, may not be a proper or adequate gauge of the academic direction and vitality of the institution," Malloy said. 
This is true. No amount of campus expansion and beautification will make a dime's worth of difference if faculty, academic programs and students aren't given attention. 
Nieuwland Science Hall's addition looks very nice, for example, but it doesn't mean much if the people inside don't have funds to conduct research or competently instruct students. 
Another concern is the University's graduate school. Father Malloy said that the next decade will be the time for graduate programs to reach their potential. He admitted that outsiders see 
N.D. as an "excellent undergraduate school with a few outstanding graduate programs." 
The University has about 1,500 graduate students. They received nearly $19 million in financial assistance and graduate fellowship 
programs  last  year,  more  than  $12,000  a  
student.  
Monetary  assistance  is  good,  but  grad  

students are alienated from the University's 7,600 undergrads. Except for those who live in residence halls as assistant rectors or resident assistants, few undergrads come in contact with graduate students. 
The two groups could learn a lot from each other, if they had opportunities to get together. Ice cream socials, cookouts and games on the quad are good ways for students to interact. Forums on campus issues with both groups is another way. 
Another of Father Malloy's concerns is the low number of minority faculty. He called the problem of recruiting minorities "a national disgrace." 
Hire more minority faculty, yes, but hire good faculty. Don't hire Africans, Hispanics, Indians or Orientals just to have them around. Hire them to make a difference in the commmunity, not be the difference. 
Academic diversity means different viewpoints, different backgrounds and different experiences. Very little can be learned from only one way of thinking. Faculty should respect the University's mission and philosophy, but should also be able to contribute their own experience of the world. 
There are few competent minority teachers out there because the educational environment 
OF INTEREST 

Picture ID's can be picked up beginning today in Room 215 of the Administration Building. Those students with an expiration date through Oct. 31 on their paper ID's may exchange their Temporary ID's for their picture ID's. You must bring both the paper temporary as well as your Vali-dine card in order to receive your picture ID. If you've lost either of them, there is a replacement fee. 
The Feast of St. Francis will be celebrated with Evening Prayer at 5 p.m. in the Siegfried Hall Chapel and a simple dinner at 6 
p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
"The Last Temptation of Christ" will be the topic of an open discussion with Ellen Weaver, Mary O'Neill, Mark Pilkinton and James Collins tonight at 7 p.m. in the Snite Museum. 

'Being the best doesn't mean that problems subside.' 
Regis Coccia Managing Editor 
in the United States this century hasn't been 
conducive to producing them. 
If minorities don't see opportunites as students, how can we expect them to search for jobs as teachers? It's time for colleges and universities to show minorities that they are accepted, not excepted, by the community. Getting minority professors and students to interact outside.the classroom would help. 
The way to build a community is to get people together and talking to each other. Group discussions between students and faculty on campus issues and personal experiences would promote understanding and awareness of different viewpoints. It would be a good lesson in life from other people's perspectives. 
Attracting faculty of any kind, however, requires money. Malloy said that higher hiring standards have put Notre Dame in a "better position to compete for research grants and to exercise leadership roles in scholarly societies." 
"Competing" is a key word in understanding the University. Colleges and universities compete to get funds, compete to keep them and compete for "prestige." Students compete to get into Notre Dame, they compete while they're here, they compete to get jobs and then compete in the working world. 
Oughtn't we stop to look at why we're competing? The University wants to be the best it can. Students want to get the best jobs. Academically, the best get the most -grants, praise, applications, quality people. 
Notre Dame can, and should, do all it can to be the best Catholic university in the world. That's all Father Hesburgh said he ever wanted. 
Being the best, however, doesn't mean that problems subside. Every university community should reflect the larger community outside it. Improving the inner community means striving to make the world itself better. 
Notre Dame will always have problems within its community, in either its academic or campus infrastructures. But that's the best part. The challenge of education is learning how to solve those problems. 
Regis Coccia is a senior American Studies major and managing editor of The Observer. The opinion expressed in the Inside column belongs to the author and is not necessarily that of The Observer. 
female auditions for St. Edward's Hall Players production of "Noises Otr' will be held at 7:30 p.m. in St. Ed's first floor lounge. Call Raul at 283-1515 for more information. 
Women United for Justice and Peace meet today at 8 p.m. in the Seigfried Lounge. Prof. Janet Kourany will speak on "What is Feminism?" All men and women of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are invited to attend. 
Acquaintance rape will be the subject or a lecture today at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. "Crossed Signals on a Saturday Night" will be delivered by Prof. Barry Burkhart of Auburn University, an expert in the field of acquaintance rape. 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except during exam and .vacat1on penods The Observer 1S published by students of the Umversity of Notre Dame and Sa1r1t Marys College Subscnpt1ons may be pur· chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wnl1ng The Observer 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 
~n Editor .................. Chris Labaree Design Assltant ···········----······Greg Tice Typesettllr.l ............................. Tim Kieler 
···················--·························--··--······Tim Quinn Asst. News EdltorFiorentine Hoelker News Copy Editor........... John O'Brien Sports Copy Editor......... Bob Mitchell ················----·· __ .................Mary Garino VIewpoint Copy Editor..... Kim Skiles VIewpoint Layout... .... Colleen Stepan Accent Editor ............. Paige A. Smoron Accent Copy Editor ...... Barbara Bryn Accent Designer ............. Alison Cocks Typlsts ........................................Will Zamer NO Day Editor ..................... Amy Leroux Photographer .................... Tom Hassett Ads Designer ................... Meg Callahan 
····--······----········...··· Val Paletta, Amy Eckert 

~ ·----~--~-~----------------­
Wednesday, October 4, 1989 The Observer 

Volunteers march through Seoul, South Korea with Olympic and IOC flags Tuesday in a downtown pa­rade marking the anniversary of Seoul's successful hosting of the 1988 Summer Olympics. 
Boeing union votes to strike 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE-Machinists at Boeing Co. voted overwhelm­ingly against a contract offer from the world's largest aerospace company Tuesday and reaffirmed a midnight strike deadline by an 85 percent margin. 
"At 12:01 a.m. (PDT) tonight the pickets will start," said Tom Baker, president of Dis­trict Lodge 751, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. 
Union leaders representing the 57,000 Machinists said they would notify a federal media­tor. who joined negotiations last weekend, that they would be willing to consider resuming negotiations. 
But Baker said the union would not be in favor of extending the strike deadline. 
Boeing spokesman Bill Clark declined comment, saying the company hadn't received offi­cial word of the union's deci­sion. 
Baker said the main reason for the strike vote was a feeling that Boeing workers deserved a greater share of the company's record prosperity. 
Boeing, the world's largest commercial airplane builder, is enjoying its fifth consecutive year of record jetliner orders, with carriers and leasing com­panies ordering 736 planes worth $38.5 billion so far this year. 
"We have gone through the hard times with this company," Baker said. "We just want to go through the good times with them as well as the hard times." Boeing offered an im­mediate raise of 4 percent, with 3 percent raises in 1990 and 1991. The proposed three-year contract also contained annual bonuses of 8 percent of a worker's gross earnings this year and 3 percent the next, in­surance improvements and re­duced compulsory overtime re­quirements to 160 hours a quarter. 
Workers filling more than half of the 65,000-seat King­dome jeered the offer and folded summaries of it into pa­per airplanes that sailed through the stadium. 
Boeing Machinists voting in Seattle, Wichita, Kan., Port­land, Ore., and elsewhere were asked to decide whether to ac­cept the contract. 
page 3 

HPC to host lecture series with 'Year of the Family' 
By ANGELA MCDONALD News Staff 
The Hall President's Council will be hosting a lecture series on family issues in conjunction with the 1989-90 Year of the Family. 
The series consists of all the male and female dorms being paired together and each of the respective pairs coming up with a theme. The lecture series, in which students discuss several diverse aspects of the family, begins today with the issue, "The Catholic Family in Modern Times," and is co-sponsored by Sorin and Walsh Halls in Sorin Hall at 7 p.m. 
Year of the Family Coordina­tor Roland Smith said that the series was sparked by Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy's announcement to fac­ulty and staff which designated this year as "The Year of the Family." 
Megan Hanley , co-chairper­son of the series said, "Since the University had no desig­nated group, such as the multi­cultural executive council, which planned the Year of Cul­tural Diversity for students, the HPC decided to implement a program which stimulates dis­
• cussions concerning the family by bringing it to a personal level within the dorms, which we consider home." 
Smith stated that Malloy ap­pointed a committee of faculty, staff and students to help initi­ate programs which would work toward the goal of stressing the importance of family. 
"One of our main goals is to raise the level of sensitivity to­wards the issue of balancing family and careers while also addressing issues relevant to students, faculty and staff," said Smith. 
The lectures will take place throughout the academic year. The basic goal is that every or­ganization which holds special events will try to incorporate the role of the family somehow into a few of its activities. 
The Year of the Family series not only consists of lectures, but workshops and support groups as well. 
"The types of issues that will be discussed will all focus on the family, yet the perspective from which they come will be different. As a committee we are attempting to be inclusive in our definition, which re­quires us to think of the family in the broadest of terms." said Smith. 

More fusion research urged 
Associated Press ratory, told a House panel that 
government leadership for the 

WASHINGTON-Leading ex­magnetic fusion program was perts on the potential for har­floundering just as scientists nessing the energy that makes neared the most important ex­the sun and stars shine told perimental stage in 40 years of Congress Tuesday the govern­work. ment should speed the pace of "At the moment, there is no experiments that could produce schedule" for beginning the a breakthrough in the next next key experiments, Furth decade. told the House Science, Space 
Harold Furth, director of the and Technology subcommittee Princeton Plasma Physics Labo-on investigations. 
How're you going to do it? 
~' /'j\:) 
___/''-..,.j ( ' \

.. I gue~l it's just you and me, Coach. f.t-eryune else i> atthe/B.\1 PSt2 l"uir." ,~.--.! __.......
. '< 
~
' •. . 
. \ \\ '· 
< ..... 

PS/2 it! 
Come to the Fair and save on the IBM PS/2. 
\!Pet the IBM Personal Svstem/2® and lind out how casv it i, to use. With the PS/2.<!> vou can get your work done and' still have timP for fun. )ou can organize your noll's, write und revise your paper;;. and create smart-looki!)g graph-ic·s to make a good report t•ven better. And best of all, AlliJ }.t!~ you ean get a PS/2 at a special student priet• thats ~~~;J more than fair. · · ~ 
Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Wednesday, Oct. 4 7 to 9 p.m. -or-Notre Dame Computer Store Computer Center and Math Building Monday thru Friday, 9a.m. to Sp.m. 
Register to win: Bruno's Pizza 1989 Jeep Wrangler (details at N.D. Computer Store) 

John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative • New Memberships or Transfers 
ILLIIIIOII• UIOIANA 
Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 
*************
.. W E S T Y L E A M E R C A" 
Shears 
atSears® 
HAIR SALON 
Op~rat~d by GLEMBY 
Fall Into a Great New Look 

Perm Wave or 
"High Flying Colors" Highlights ONLY 
Perm Waves include haircut, shampoo & style. Highlights include sh::tmpoo & style. Designer perms not included. 
University Park Mall 277-4800 ext.498 SEARS Offer good September 17 -October 28 ~~~. 

~-~-------­

A walker stands on the parched shoreline of the Ladybower Reservoir, near Sheffield, England, Tues­day, where the village of Derwent, submerged 40 years ago, has reappeared in the worst water shortage for a decade. Water chiefs said they are within six weeks of ordering standpipes to be set up throughout the Yorkshire region. 
Wednesday, October 4, 1989 

CBS under fire for allegedly using faked combat footage 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-A free-lance cameraman accused in a news­paper of faking combat footagn aired on "The CBS Evening News" met Tuesday with CBS News president David Burke, a representative of CBS News said. 
However, the CBS representa­tive declined comment when asked whether Burke and cam­eraman Mikn Hoover discussnd the accusations against Hoover, or whether another meeting has been scheduled. 
The New York Post reportnd claims last Wednesday that footage broadcast by CBS in 1984 was fake -that Hoover had staged scenes orguerrilla sabotage and had made a Pak­istani jet lighter on a training run appear to be a Soviet plane bombing Afghan villages. 
As a free-lancer, Hoover sold 
Shoot 

continued from page 1 very close to the victim," Campbell said. "When it hap­pened, the teacher hollered to somebody to call the office. The suspect looked at her, brought the rine around, stated 'If you call the office, you'll be next.' " 
The teacher ducked to the noor and Mitchell left the cafe­teria, Campbell said. 
The school's head custodian encountered Mitchell as he left the building and asked him what he was doing with a rine. Mitchell then fired twiee at the more than 50 children on the playground, Campbell said. 
Which college essential in this picture fits in your backpack? 
Service 
continued from page 1 
it could be risky. "Sometimes if the family gets hold of you, they'll ask for more than you can give," said Anderson, who also chairs this project. 
By selling M&M's Candy, the juniors hope to raise enough money to cover the expenses of the food and gifts, which are estimated at $70-100 per family. 
The idea for Notre Dame students to volunteer with the elderly was partially the brain­child of Anderson, who feels that "society tends to forget about them." Although SAVE has been in existence since the 1970s, its grant was not rn­the film to CBS News, which he said had approved his propos­als for trips inside Afghanistan to film the war there. Some of his footage also was used in a 1987 "CBS Reports" documen­tary, "The Battle for Afghanistan." 
The Post reported earlier Tuesday that lloover had nown in from New Zealand for the CBS interview and would be ac­companied by an attorney at the meeting. 
The cameraman, who last week did not return calls made by reporters to his residences in Los Angeles and Wyoming, was not available for comment Tuesday. 
Burke, too, was not available. On Tuesday afternoon, his sec­retary told one reporter sc1~king to interview thn news division president on the Post's claims: "We're not taking any press calls. 
newed in the spring of 1988. 
With th1~ aid of the Center for Social Concerns, the project grew from the concern of a few students to a team of 20 whieh is currently planning visits to Marian Hill and Cardinal Meridian nursing homes. 
Cathy Dillon, working for esc. ftwls tlw project is de­signed to providn studtmts who will "be a friend, be sonwo1w constant in their lives." 
Studt~nt volunteers are trained in an orientation pro­gram given by dirnctors of the nursing home. The program explains what kind of home tlw students will bP visiting, what the patients are like and givt~s a guide to working with the elderly. 

Panama 
continued from page 1 said there were some dead and wounded, but the number of casualties was not immediately known. .Jose Blandon, a Panamanian defector and former close aide to Noriega, said in Washington a leader of the assault told him by telephone Noriega was wounded and captured. lie said officers intended to send Noriega to the United States to face drug charges but that it would be difficult be­cause other officers in the De­fense Forces, which includes the military and police, also were involved in the drug trade. Troops of the U.S. Southern Command were put on Delta Alert, the highest level of readi­ness, and U.S. soldiers in com­bat gear took up positions only 600 yards from the barracks. President Bush told reporters 
in Washington: "There were rumors around that this was some American operation, and I can tell you that is not true. Nobody's sure what's happen­ing there." 
Shooting began with a few bursts of lire at about 7 a.m. (8 
a.m. EDT). 

Hebels took control of the military headquarters in a con­gested part of downtown Panama City. Those loyal to Noriega then went to the roofs of surrounding buildings, hurl­ing grenades and firing mor­tars and small arms into the compound. 
Several hours of heavy gun­f'ire inside and outside the headquarters preceded the rebel radio broadcast, which said the entire high command was forced into retirement by middle-ranking officers led by Maj. Moises Giraldi Vega, head of the Urraca battalion that handles security at Defense Forces headquarters. 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY, JIM M.! 
Take time out to celebrate... And always remember 
WHO LOVES YA BABY! 
Mom, Dad, Suzy, Chris, and the "Jinxer" 

Student discount I 
I
Solar Sculptured Nails 
The Castle 
I
Regular $40.00 

I
Now$20.00 272-8471 
I
St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood Suite 1A 
Bring in this ad for discount 
Convenient Parking I
by appointment only 

The Castle 272-0312 I 
exp. date 10131/89 

I 
--------------------------· 

T 
98Z llOdSJ;x:lns ,SW;!ISAS lnl!O ljliU;!£: l!utpnf:JU! ;~t..oqe ;!ljl jO liV :J()M.SUV 
ht Z.nilh SupnsPorl 286 ballery.powtr<d porLablt. '="J _l 1 .J L) 
The sPort that goes everywhere you and your backpack  For more infonnation on Zenith's full line of  I  
go.  And wuh all the power of a desktop.  computers. from laptops to desktops contact  r- 
As PC MAGAZINE, Oct '88 sLOtes:  "The SupersPort 286  

IS an incredible machine." Or as in INFQWORl D. Oct '88 says: "It embodies a combination of speed. weight, size, and bauery life that we've seen in no other laptop computer." 
See for yourself where the SupersPort 286 can 1.8ke you. Several portable models are available ranging in speed, hard drive capacity and price. S1udents, Facuhy and SLOff receive large discounts. Students, ask about our new loan program! 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Comput1ng Math/Computer Building 239-7477 
;$"',,.1 data

systems 
The world's #1 selling PC compatibles. Get the best for less. 

Wednesday, October 4, 1989 The Observer 
pageS 

Bush: U.S. not in Panama coup 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President Bush declared Tuesday that the attempted coup against Panama's Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega was not "some Ameri­can operation." Bush's spokesman said the government would continue seeking Nor­iega's ouster. 
"Nothing's changed. Every­thing remains the same. We'll continue to press for Noriega's removal" and his arrest to stand trial in the United States on drug charges, said spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. 
Late Tuesday, after a day of sorting out conflicting· reports on the coup attempt, Fitzwater said U.S. officials had deter­mined it had failed. Soon after, Noriega's officials claimed vic­tory in Panama City. 
Though the overthrow at­tempt, by members of the Panamanian Defense Forces, failed after a morning gun bat­tle at the forces' headquarters, Fitzwater said the attempt "shows the opposition to Nor­iega within Panama. It shows there is a strong faction at least within the PDF (Panamanian Defense Forces) that felt he should be removed." 
"We did not take any action that would have constituted di­rect involvement," said Fitzwa­ter. "We had helicopters that were in the air observing and we had some troops around one of the causeways there to protect access and rights and so forth." · 
Bush himself told reporters emphatically, "There were ru­mors around that this was some American operation and I can tell you that is not true." 
Fitzwater said a State De­partment official, Bernard Aronson, informed Bush after the president met with the visit­ing Soviet defense minister that Noriega's forces appeared to be prevailing. 
"He just said 'OK,' and went into another meeting," said Fitzwater. 
The spokesman said visiting Mexico President Carlos Salinas de Gortari in a meeting earlier Tuesday with Bush had "emphasized the integrity of the various countries in Central America, and we have respected that integrity and have not in­tervened." 
The Bush administration, like the Reagan administration be­fore it, has called repeatedly for Noriega's ouster. 
Bush, speaking to reporters before the outcome in Panama City was clear, appeared intent on influencing the situation in Panama in favor of the insur­rectionists. 
Asserting that he hoped his words would be "conveyed in­stantly" to Panama, Bush said, "We have no argument with the 
Panamanian Defense Forces. 
We've had good relations with 
the Panamanian Defense 
Forces. 
"Our argument has been, as have many other countries, with Mr. Noriega who aborted the democratic will of the peo­ple of Panama. And that's where our argument was and that's where our argument is." 
Last May, Bush had told re­porters, "I would love to see them get him out." 
Asked then if he were calling for the Panamanian Defense Forces to overthrow Noriega, Bush replied, "We'd like to see him out of there, not just the PDF, the will of the people of Panama. ... I would add no words of caution. The will of the people should be imple­mented." 
Fitzwater acknowledged that the United States had some ad­vance word that a coup attempt might be afoot but said he was unaware of Noriega's fate or even his whereabouts. 
"We had some indications this sort of thing was in the works, but until it happens, you never know," Fitzwater said. He characterized the prior in­formation as "rumblings." 
Secretary of State James Baker said the United States would move quickly toward normalizing relations with Panama if Noriega is deposed . 

Johnny Saxton, not Johnny Appleseed, searches for loot as he picks acorns behind Moreau Seminary on Tuesday. 
Notre Dame team wins 1st place in 1989 Annual1 OK Grape Stomp 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame's team came in first place in the 1989 Annual lOK Grape Stomp. 
Notre Dame's team earned nine team points in this run in which proceeds go to the up­keep of the bicycle and jogging paths in St. Patrick's County Park. 
According to Rod Goodchild, run founder and chairman, the run is the "largest corporate run in the tri-state area." This year 24 teams, a total of 1100 runners competed, he said. 
The Grape Stomp Corporate Cup Award ceremony was September 27. Pete Cordelli, of­fensive coach for the Notre Dame football team was a guest celebrity and Charlie "Big Guy" Adams, sports director, WSBT ,Channel 22, served as the announcer, said Goodchild. 
The Notre Dame team won the Corporate Cup lOK which will be displayed at the Joyce ACC, he said. 
Susan Kircher, a Notre Dame law student, took first place in the 24 & under category and teammate Tom Worth took first in the 25-29 mens' cate­gory. William Hickey, director of University Food Services and William Sexton, vice president for University Relations also ran in the race. 
This year the run took place 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SUMMER ENGINEERING FOREIGN s.
. . 
in 

LONDON, ENGLAND 
INFORMATION MEETING: ... > Wednesday, October 4, 1........01., ...,,,,,,,,.,.,.,,,.,, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00p.m. ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
t•::~:;:;r"'OONi:TOF~Hi'NMRN~iJ7ndiJ·;~..:~:;:7-''''''''''•• 
~~ TN/ST£8 tonight in Rngela, sign-ups start atI 5:00, rounds start at 6:00
I "The Gardens·-tomorrow night from 9-1 .be~ind ECDC $2.00 admission-2 forms of ID needed (hmlt 500) Sponsored by C.AR.E. :Dr. Bany Burkhartspeaks tmdghtat 7:00in the UbraryAud. Reminder: Juniors sign up for Crop Walk in Dining Hall Oct. 4-5 
I SEN\OR.I-pkft. ap len.i.ol" Da4·s paci&ts 'Ifa.u.l"s. ! ! ! 
on August 26 and marked the lOth anniversary of the race. "It's the oldest run in South Bend," he said. 
Goodchild said the "out and back" course runs through St. Patrick's and Madeline Ber­trand County Parks. 
Various corporate sponsors donate goods and prizes for the runners including yogurt and juices, said Goodchild. 
Goodchild explained that the name "Grape Stomp" comes from the wine producing vine­yard in St. Patrick's park. Southwest Michigan is famous for its fine grapes, he said. 
Goodchild is a two-time Olympic athlete who will soon strive to attain what he calls "Rod's Golden Dream." 
He says on April 28, 1990, after his 40th birthday, he will become the first human to run a mile under four minutes as a master runner. It will take place at 11 a.m. on Moose Krause Track. 
In the summer, Goodchild serves as the strength and con­ditioning coach for the Notre Dame football team. He said he knows he has the support of the team and of Coach Lou Holtz in reaching his goal. 

SENIOR CLUB BILLIARDS I-BALL 
3-CUSHION BILLIARDS SNOOKER 
WE HAVE THE BEST "SHOOTIN" TABLES IN THE AREA, WITH A QUIET PLAYING ATMOSPHERE. 
EVERYONE PLAYS "POOL" AT THE: SENIORS CLUB BILLIARDS 603 E. WASHINGTON SOUTH BEND 233-Q301 
OPEN MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 9 AM-? 

I
n 

STUDENT ACTIYITIESCD 
I 
.._, .L Ill ..... 
II
SAI•t IIART"S COLLSE 
I
I 

L~......................................................................................................................~........................................................................................................................J 
-----------------------------~ 

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, October 4, 1989 

Kemp calls for HUD management change 
Associated Press be subjected to intense public scrutiny through the publishing 
WASHINGTON-Housing of all funding and other major Secretary Jack Kemp on Tues­decisions in the Federal Hegis­day proposed major manage­ter. Kemp also promised to im­ment changes at the scandal­prove targeting of scarce HUD tarred Department of Housing funds to those most in need and and Urban Development, in­vowed to try to collect money cluding eliminating a program bilked from the agency in the and special fund he said were past. used to reward politically con­More proposals are likely, he nected developers. said, after additional reviews of 
"Many past funding decisions HUD management. were, frankly, based on political Initial reaction from mem­influence rather than merit," bers of Congress was favorable, Kemp said in releasing his 58-although there was opposition point plan to reform the to a Kemp proposal to kill the agency. "Under my steward­Section 8 Moderate He­ship, no decisions will be made habilitation Program, which at BUD for the political advan­HUD's inspector general said in tage or personal gain of any April was riddled with influence 
AP Photo
Search for trooper's assailant one person or of a political peddling by former agency offi­party." cials and prominent Republican 
Local law officers search the trunk of a car in their hunt for a man who shot and wounded an Oklahoma 
Kemp, in his first news con­consultants. 
Highway Patrol trooper over the weekend. More than 100 state and local authorities combed a wooded 
ference as secretary, also an­"I think the secretary's rec· 
area southeast of Woodward in western Oklahoma. 
nounced that BUD has barred ommendations with respect to from doing government busi­ethics, management reform, ness a mortgage lender whose tighter fiscal controls, the in­
Bakker fraud trial over, to go to jury today 
defaults in a BUD program to­troduction of a chief financial Associated Press pect justice under the law." Bakker raised $158 million tal more than $700 million. officer of !IUD, arc all exeel­Bakker, 49, is charged in U.S. through partnership sales. While praising the congres­lent," said Hep. Thomas Lan­
CIIAHLOTTE, N.C.-PTL District Court with 15 counts of Smith called Bakker the pros­sional investigation of influence tos, D-Calif., the chairman of a founder Jim Bakker is a wire fraud, eight counts of mail ecution's "star witness." peddling, fraud and misman­!louse subcommittee investiga­"world-class master of using fraud and one count of con­"There may have been a time agement at HUD during the tion of the department. half truths" and should be con­spiracy to commit wire and when Bakker was a man of Reagan administration, Kemp "When we come into the pro­victed of fraud and conspiracy, mail fraud. He is accused of di­good deeds back in the 1970s, said he did not believe it was gramatic field, I think we'll a prosecutor said Tuesday in verting more than $3.7 million but as time progressed into the necessary to appoint a special have to study those recommen­closing arguments at the fallen in PTL money for his own bene­1980s, he began to use people prosecutor, as suggested by dations much more carefully," minister's trial. fit and of conspiring to defraud to obtain possessions and some Republicans and said Lantos, among a number 
"lie lied to people, he used PTL followers of their money to power and keep it," she said. Democrats involved in the re­of lawmakers who said they half truths to manipulate peo­support a lifestyle. Bakker, who had sparred views. were not yet convinced the re­ple," said special prosecutor If convicted on all counts, he with Smith on the witness Kemp's proposed changes habilitation program should be Deborah Smith. "lie used his faces up to 120 years in prison stand, scribbled notes during range from regulatory and killed instead of reformed. position to maintain his power and more than $5 million in her arguments and glanced at administrative steps he can and wealth." fines. the screen when she played take immediately to more com­Many of Kemp's proposals 
Bakker's attorney, George Prosecutors contend that videotapes of his old television plex changes that would require mirror those in a largely ig­Davis, said Bakker was a victim Bakker solicited money for shows. congressional approval. nored 1984 General Accounting of circumstance and urged lifetime partnerships at his "You can't lie to people to The agency's Federal Housing Office report to Congress, while jurors to keep an open mind. Heritage USA retreat near send you money -it's that Administration and its multibil­others were molded after more 
"lie's facing the most serious here, but used the the money simple," she said. "You can't lion-dollar loan programs recent suggestions made in moment I'm sure he'll ever face for projects other than the tell half truths. If you do it, if would be significantly affected, Congress to limit the role of in his life," Davis said. "He lodging he promised. Lifetime you use the postal service and with several programs Kemp lobbyists and consultants in doesn't expect you to give him partners paid $1,000 for an the public airwaves you will said have deviated from helping government funding decisions. pity. lie doesn't expect you to annual guarantee of three night find yourself in federal court the needy eliminated outright. Still others came from Kemp give him sympathy. He does ex-and four days at Heritage USA. answering charges of fraud. And the entire agency would aides after their own review. 
rF®rnmtro~® ~M©mun@[ft)~ 
for the St. Edward's Hall Players production of Noises Off will be held Wednesday at 7:30 in the St. Ed's 1st floor lounge. 
cauRaul(1~~~s~i~~5~rk(1513)tor 
l''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
i DOMER DASH i i & DINE !
! Saturday, October 7 ! 
:==.=====;;;;;=;;===~-~ The Dash: 11:00 a.m.3 & 6 Mile Runs I ~ Pre-Football Game I ~ The Dine: Immediately Following ~ 
I <<<<<All You Can Eat>>>>> ~ 
~ I
I SPAGHETTI DINNER ~ 
; All before the Stanford Game ~ 
~ "Run for the Irish" I 
Saturday, Oct 

~ Men's Undergraduate Women's Undergraduate ~ s·oopm 
14 

~ Graduate Graduate ~ Morns C1v1c 
~ Faculty/Staff Faculty/Staff ~ A11riltarll 1m 
~ $4.00 In Advance ~ 
all seats reserved $16 50 

~ i ~~ $6.00 Day Of ~ 
Tickets on sale 

! -/:J; .... .,.. ~ 
NOW 

i fifJVf.-~ ---I
C1v1c Box Office.N1ghtwrnds. 

I ·\I /~] I,.·-I =<if I 
Record Connect1on & usual outlets 
~ /.~./~\ /,.} NoN v ,, . " . ·-"c ..., ~ 
CHARGE 284-9190 
~ C,._':~/r :y ---&--~ / ~ 
ill ±L · ~ 
................................................. ~......~ ~............................................................................................. 
r 
Wednesday, October 4, 1989 
House likely to repeal elderly insurance 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The House, bogged down with other legis­lation, postponed for one day, until Wednesday, its likely vote to repeal catastrophic health insurance for the nation's elderly. 
Proponents of the program, enacted a year ago in a rush of bipartisan fervor, acknowl­edged Tuesday that the best they could hope for was to sal­vage a sliver of the new bene­fits, which marked the first major expansion of Medicare in two decades. 
Since the program began, legislators have been buffeted by criticism from elderly Amer­icans upset about the cost of the insurance. 
The chamber had been ex­pected to vote on repealing the program Tuesday, but sched­uled debate on other legislation took so long that the vote was put off until Wednesday. 
Even if the House votes to re­peal the program, its fate won't be known until later in the fall, after negotiations with the Se­nate, which is expected to deal with the matter on its own later this week. 
At stake were significant new hospital and doctor-bill benefits for 33 million elderly and disabled Americans covered by Medicare. Many of the benefits do not take effect until January. 
The cry for repeal came from three quarters: 
-Retirees who complained their former employers were already giving them additional benefits they were being forced to purchase from Medicare. 
-Upper income retirees who objected to having to pay a dis­proportionate share of the costs -in the form of an income tax surcharge -to make up for a more modest assessment on the estimated 56 of 

The six-man and the Chicago Health Club would like to wish 
a Happy Birthday 
Medicare ~neficiaries who don't have enough money to owe any income taxes. 
-Those who complained that the program did not address the main need of elderly Ameri­cans: insurance for nursing home and other long-term care, a benefit that many studies have said would be as much as 10 times as costly. 
Ironically, House leaders said legislators' painful experience with this run at a major expan­sion of acute care health pro­tection probably would make them less inclined to pursue even more costly programs for the elderly in the future. 
"Future programs are going to have to be more carefully considered," House Speaker Thomas Foley told reporters shortly before debate was to have begun on the proposal to repeal catastrophic health in­surance. 
Earlier, Foley had described a "mood of frustration" as set­tling over House health policy leaders. 
Indeed, Rep. Fortney Stark, D-Calif., a major force behind the catastrophic program, said Monday that "I think they (lawmakers) feel they'd just like to get rid of this annoyance and they certainly are going to be very skeptical when I come to them in the future with a bill to help the senior citizens." 
Stark said catastrophic care supporters "lost the informa­tion battle" to groups that preyed on the fears of the elderly. 
"It's very easy to take very fragile, very insecure seniors who are easily confused and confuse them even further," he said. 
The income tax surcharge ranges up to $800 this year for Medicare-eligible people in up­per income ranges. 

Associated Press 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia­East Germany issued an order Tuesday banning free travel to Czechoslovakia but agreed that at least 10,000 of its citizens already in Prague could emi­grate to the West. 
East German leader Erich Honecker accused West Ger­many of "insolently breaking promises" by letting the East Germans into its embassies in Prague and Warsaw. 
"They believe in West Ger­many that they can destabilize East Germany with a broad­based attack, but it will not work," he said in his first ·ma­jor speech since returning to work after a long convalescence from gallbladder surgery. ADN, the official East German news agency, carried his remarks. 
The crackdown on travel came after hundreds of East Germans stormed through po-· lice lines to get inside the em­bassy in Prague. 
They climbed facades, rooftops and a fence to reach the crowded compound. Many were left blood-spattered by the police and some fell uncon­scious inside the grounds. 
Rudolf Seiters, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's chief of staff, said East German refugees would begin leaving Prague for West Germany by train Tuesday evening. He said the East Ger­man decision would allow an estimated 4,700 refugees in the the embassy and about 6,000 milling outside to travel west. 
Seiters said Kohl was in­formed of the East German de­cision by Premier Ladislav Adamec of Czechoslovakia. 
East Germany's decision ap­peared to be part of an effort to avoid possible embarrassing disturbances during celebra­tions of the communist state's 40th anniversary Saturday. So­viet President Mikhail Gobachev is scheduled to attend. 
Thousands of East Germans have streamed across the bor­der into neighboring Czechoslo­vakia and to other Soviet bloc countries in the last few weeks in an attempt to reach West Germany. 
ADN, the East German agency, said the travel ban stemmed from reports "that certain circles in West Germany are preparing provocations" in conjunction with the celebra­tions. 
Last weekend, East Germany agreed to the departure of about 7,000 refugees from the West German embassies in Prague and in Warsaw, Poland, but said it was a one-time ar­rangement. 
Previously, East Germans did not need a visa or passport to reach Czechoslovakia, but ADN said such documents would be required from now on. That ef­fectively bans all ordinary East Germans from traveling to Czechoslovakia. 
It also will make it much 
H. KAPlAN 
Our classroom instruction, home study materials and review tapes have all been COMPLETELY UPDATED to prepare you for the NEW LSAT. What has NOT CHANGED is our 50 years of test preparation experience, our skilled instructors, our small classes, our first rate study materials and our TEST-N-TAPE• labs. And our 135 Centers are still open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
CLASSES ARE FORMING NOW for the 1 2 -2 LSAT • 
1717 E. South Bend Avenue 
South Bend~ IN 46637 (219} 272•4135 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
more difficult for East Germans to reach Hungary, where the liberal leadership opened its western border Sept. 11, since the usual route to Hungary is through Czechoslovakia. 
West Germany closed its em­bassy early Tuesday after thou­sands of East Germans streamed into the compound overnight, bringing the total seeking asylum there to some 4,500. Red Cross officials said they feared sanitation prob­lems. 
After the East German deci­sion was announced, the em­bassy opened its doors, refugees said. 
Hundreds of East Germans hopeful of gaining access to the embassy had continued arriving throughout Tuesday, and they grew desperate as the day wore on. 
Police had blockaded the em­bassy garden fence, but nearly 300 refugees stormed the police lines, scaled the fence and fought off club-wielding police trying to keep them back. 
"They clubbed like mad," a Czechoslovak witness said. 
Witnesses .said many people were injured in scuffles with police. Others got caught on the sharp spikes at the top of the fence and still others jumped or fell head first to the ground. Some lay unconscious inside the compound, witnesses said. 
"This is pandemonium," said a Red Cross assistant handling injured refugees. Only a doctor and several refugees witnessed the incident . 


Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, October 4, 1989 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor......Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager............ Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor ......... .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager..........Alison Cocks Accent Editor. . .......... John Blasi Systems Manager............Mark Derwent Photo Editor... . . ............ Eric Bailey OTS Director. . .... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor... . ........ Christine Gill Controller. . . .... ... . .............. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol· icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, 
through letters, is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL  Priestly duty requires male  
Notre Dame needs  By Kevin McCormick  female baby inside it would seem ludicrous. As the highest  manity of Christ, Christ's gender is an  because integral  
a smoking policy  "Shouldn't the Catholic Church also ordain women?" If  sacraments and the symbol of Christ's sacrifice, the Eucharist as reenactment must be treated  part of that humanity. As hu­mans, we arc spiritually simi­lar, but we are physically dif­ 
the title didn't give it away, the  with  utmost  respect  because  ferent,  and  it is the  physical  
Smoking is a hazard to your health, according to the Surgeon General of the United States. Smoking ci­garettes has been shown to cause cancer, emphysema,  event itself would have relin­quished any doubt that this re­cent "open panel discussion" was probably as one-sided as  there is a difference. Now, if one were to say that Christ's maleness made no dif­ference to his being human,  presence of spiritual grace which is the entire reason for the Eucharistic celebration. Therefore, if the priest repre­ 
and damage to unborn fetuses.  Indeed,  some studies  ·any event could be and still be  then we must wonder whether  sents Christ, as human, at the  
indicate  that smoking is  a  hazard  to  non-smokers'  called a "discussion." Being one  or not Christ could have been a  Last Supper, he must be male.  
health as well, with so-called secondary smoke almost  of the few in attendance who  woman. If we believe in an om­ Why? Because it is an integral  
as dangerous as the smoke inhaled directly.  supports the Catholic Church  nipotent God, then clearly the  part of his humanity.  
and its dogma, I would like to  answer would have to be ­ yes,  I think it is imperative that  
The past decade has seen a dramatic decline in the  attempt to  shed a bit of light  Christ  could  have  been  a  the American Catholic com m u ·  
number of smokers in the United States, as more and more people become aware of the dangers of smoking. Notre Dame is no exception; it is apparent from even a cursory examination that few students and faculty smoke regularly.  on what has become a terribly clouded issue and focus on why the Church stands as it does. I think that the main problem with this issue is that those who speak in favor of women  woman -because to say otherwise would be to limit God to social standards of the time or some other earthly limita­tion. Therefore, we can only believe that God's choice of  nity recognize and understand this position. The qui~stion docs not involve the spiritual quality of the priest: it docs not include his manner, his kindness, his political opinions, his role as  
It is  now time for Notre Dame to adopt a  campus­ being ordained are presenting arguments which are irrelevant  Christ as man was not an arbi­trary one, but an intended and  Church administrator, his role as spiritual counselor. The  
wide  smoking policy.  A good University policy  on  to the Catholic Church's stance.  significant one.  question deals with his human­ 
smoking would include banning smoking in all indoor  In  terms of belief and dogma,  This Catholic belief is  not  a  ity and dearly we cannot sepa­ 
public  areas  of University buildings.  This  includes  the priest's primary role in the  statement of gender superiority  rate our gender from  our hu­ 
classrooms,  offices,  dining facilities,  hallways,  re­ Church  is  to  perform  the  any  more  than Christ's  man­ manity.  
strooms, and public spaces in dorms.  Eucharistic Prayer at the mass. The Eucharistic Prayer is' a  hood itself is. Hather, it is an acknowledgement of the hu- Kevin McCormick is a senior English major.  
This is not to begrudge the smoker his or her right to smoke; if the individual chooses to smoke, that is the individual's choice. However, when that choice puts others in danger and discomfort, it is no longer accept­ symbolic reenactment of the Last Supper, and its sacramen­tal value lies in the fact that it is our opportunity to experience Christ and the Grace of God  LETTERS Lessons from ND football history  
able. This is precisely what happens when  someone  through  this  physical  act  of  Dear Editor:  gram's  return  to  greatness. 
chooses to light up in a public place. All non-smokers  eating.  It  is  the  ultimate  While  I  enjoyed  Vic  The  point  is  that  we  should  
around a smoker are forced to inhale the smoke, caus­ combination  of the  spiritual  Lombardi's football flashback  never forget, because it is quite  
ing not only irritation, but also a potential health haz­ and physical, and  because of  (The Observer, Sept. 29),  the  possible that someday in  our  
ard.  this, we use the exact physical,  article did contain  one  major  lifetime,  Notre  Dame  football  
earthly elements which Christ  error.  While  1984 may  have  will fall  on  hard times again.  
In addition, the University Counseling Center should offer programs to help individuals quit smoking, just as they do for alcohol and drugs. Nicotine is a drug, as  used at the Last Supper, i.e. the sacraments are not beer and pizza, but bread and wine. Therefore, the physical, earthly  been Gerry Faust's best year at Notre Dame, the Irish definitely. did not defeat SMU in the Aloha Bowl of that year. In fact, the  Part of the greatness of last year's national champjonship is that it compensated somewhat for the sour years which pre­ 
harmful. if not more harmful, than any other.  representation of Christ at the  Mustangs topped Notre Dame  ceded  it.  So  let's  not  treat  
Freshmen should be asked to indicate on their hous­ mass (i.e. the priest) must be as  27-20 in the game. The Irish  lightly anything bad which hap­ 
ing form whether they prefer  a  non-smoking  room­ Christ was on earth -a man.  had a chance to win the game  pened to Notre Dame football  
mate. The University would agree to abide by this re­ This physical, earthly quality  in  the last minute, but Steve  in the past. If we never forget,  
quest.  of Christ is central to the expe­ Beuerlein overthrew  a  wide­ we  may  have  the  chance  to  
rience  of the  sacrament  be­ open Milt Jackson in the end  avoid r~peating the same mis­ 
It is now time for the University to recognize that smoking, while not a large problem in terms of num­bers, is nonetheless one which must be addressed.  cause the Eucharist is a reli­gious reenactment. If one were to reenact the manger scene by placing a man dressed in drag  zone. It's easy to forget anything that happened to Notre Dame football during the Faust years,  takes. If not, at least we'll sa­vor our victories even more. Richard Beck Law Student  
at the foot of a manger with a  especially in light of the pro- Sept. 30, 1989  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
8.!)., TH/5 M/93 !KXJP5TCIN U/IU. IS Jot/.­NPW A Re5T8tRJI?C PAV/5 MY ~L! t~Rt/l£*3/?!ReCtoR HtR W£9311¥3 /(()()M~ ON 7HC-. I UH... IT'S UP­1 5TAIRS.  
 'Silence is the ultimate weapon of power.'  


Charles de Gaulle  
(1890-1970)  


~--~-----~---~-----~~­
·-..,...

Accent
Wednesday, October 4, 1989 page 9 

Photo by Fanie Jason 

Archbishop Tutu often devotes part of his time to children as seen here at St. Paul's Primary School in Bo-Kaap, Cape Town. 
Tutu sure of peaceful end 
Archbishop motivated by God and not politics 

.... \:> ' \
'l,j 

Photo courtesy of South African Outlook 
I < 
~.

• * ·1 ,. 
"\:.,,

.. • ,)
The Archbishop leading a 
~

religious 
~ 
J

ceremony. 
v I ---..... ........+ 

efore I began my work with Arch­bishop Desmond Tutu, I was the victim of a dras­tic mis­conception. I was of the belief that 

Tutu was first and foremost a political leader. I thought poli­tics, specifically the liberation of his people, was the driving force behind the man. As win­ner of the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize, he had risen to world prominence as the leading spokesman against the brutal and repressive measures of the South African regime. Ulti­mately, I expected Archbishop Tutu to epitomize politics rath­er than religion. I was wrong. 
At risk of making a cliched generalization, Desmond Tutu is a true man of God. Ulti­mately, God is the controlling and dominant force in his life, and Archbisop Tutu believes the power of God will be the fi­nal salvation of his country. In the end, Tutu is first an Arch­bishop and then a political leader, but even that designa­tion makes him uncomfortable. He claims he does not have a political mandate and that he does not want one, yet all out­ward signs point to the fact that he does indeed have a mandate. When Archbishop Desmond Tutu is in one of the townships, the people swarm around him by the thousands. They may simply want a glimpse of him or hear him say a few words, but the fact re­mains that they follow him. Tutu, however, claims that he is driven by the power of the Almighty and that he is merely following the commands of God. There was a time when I 

would have scoffed at such a statement. After coming to know Archbishop Tutu, I accept it as fact. 
The man is magnetic in per­sonality and inspiring in de­meanor. He lights up a room, be it with two or two hundred people, and friends and foes alike readily admit his uncanny mastery of language, be it Eng­lish, Afrikaan, or Xhosa. I liter­ally found myself hanging onto every word he said, and when he wasn't speaking, he was usually laughing. He laughs more than anyone I have ever met, and he loves to joke . around with people whether he knows them or not. He is ex­ceptionally personable, and it seemed as if we were old friends the first time we met. 
Not everyone, however, is as impressed with Desmond Tutu as I am. Frankly, he is one of the most despised men by the South African government due to his outspoken criticisms of apartheid and his ceaseless calls for comprehensive sanc­tions against his country. I had not been aware of the extent to which the government will go to discredit Tutu, and his staff members explained that it is a constant game for local officials to discredit Tutu's reputation. 
One example presented itself 
the week before I arrived at 
Bishopscourt. Early one morn­
ing, two buses pulled up in front of the main gate and many poor, black South Africans filed out and began protesting. "How can you live like this?" and "Feed us, we are hungry!" they demanded. Tutu's staff mem­bers responded quickly by invit­ing all the protesters in for tea and cookies before the local newspaper photographers could arrive for their photo opportuni­ty. After the protesters had fin­ished eating and discussing, two of the men stayed behind and explained the incident. Appar­ently, earlier that morning the buses had come to their town­ship and a white official had paid the people five rands to get on the bus and go protest at Bishopscourt. In other words, the entire event had been com­pletely orchestrated by the gov­ernment to make Tutu look bad. 
Tutu accepts such events calmly and with a terrific sense of humor, and he responds by merely praying for the govern­ment officials. Prayer is his final refuge for dealing with a bitter and relentless government, and it is his faith in God which is the foundation for the stability in his life. The man is adamant that South Africa will be saved and that it will be accomplished peacefully without bloodshed. Ultimately, it is his faith in God which manifests his call for so­cial justice and equality for his people. And so the prayers con­tinue as do the international pleas to help save South Africa. There was a time when I would have thought the two acts were mutually exclusive. Archbishop Tutu taught me differently. 
Mike Schadek is a senior gov­ernment major. This is the sec­ond in a series ofarticles on South Africa. 

page 10 The Observer Wednesday, October 4, 1989 
The Observer accepts c1ass1ft8ds Bvery bustnes~ d.1y !rom tO ;1111 to 3 30 pi" .H :tu: Notre Dame oll1ce 314 LdFor1une. and !rom 12 30 to 3 p rn ~I 111e Sa1nt Mdry ~ ollll '' Haggar College Center Deadlme lor n"'' day ctass111eds IS 3 p 111 All classil~t.,c1~ mu~l h•· 
prepa1d TllP. charge 1S 2 cents pe1 clliHdcler per day ,nclud1119 spdcP.s
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS !!111111!11111111 
TYPING 
JACKIE BOGGS 
684-8793 
TYPING term 
papers/reports~eners/resumes. 
Pick up & delivery available. 277­
5134 10am-8pm. 
Spee-Dee 
Wordprocessing 
237-1949 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 
287-4082 
AD&D player with experience 
seeks party to join. Call George 
at x1782. 
1-V Christian Fellowship Meeting 
When: 7 pm; Fri. Oct. 6 
Where: If 6, O'Hara-Grace Apt. 
? Call Jim at 271-0456 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: MINOLTA FREEDOM 
ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAS-t" SEEN 
IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, 
NOT PAID FOR. VERY, VERY 
VALUABLE Ill CALL PETE AT 
11863 ANYTIME! $100.00 
REWARD. 
LOST: A Jaz watct. w/ black 
leather band on Fo'i. Sep 22 at 
perty at 817 NO Ave.~ found 
please call Chns at x1 069, no 
questions asked! 

NEWS FLASH: Synth programmer I airhead has misplaced a tan plastic box of 3.5" floppies containing 3 disks: 2 blank and 1 labled "Synth Disk", holding important documents. Would appreciate its immediate return. If found, please call Weazel at Wl65. 
Lost: Blue ND pouch w/ keys, 

detex, 10, driver's license, and 
pixes inside. 
REWARD -please call Andria at 

2903 or send to 11 2 Lyons 
FOUND: a set of keys in Howard 
Hall, room no. 342. call x2652. 
LOST -Black wallet in NOH 

middle line on Sunday, Oct 1 
I'd just like the wallet back, even if 
you keep the$. Call Bill Picht at 
1436 or drop rt by 711 Flanner or 

Lost and Found 
LOST: small black leather keychain pouch. Zipper compartment contatns Washrngton State Drivers Licesnse. Marquene University ID & Nautilus Membership card. Also room & mail key. Please call Katie, x3351. 
LOST: keys on brass Wimbleton key charn wrth blue rubber NDDD on it. Very important!! Call Katie x3351. 
R U honest, or? lost pr. black Vuarnets at Lafortune's auto bank teller. 9/11. Please call X4043 or leave w/ Carroll Hall rector. 
Lost: Black Aiwa Walkman w/ tape inside. If found call Joe @3804 Rewardll Rewardll Reward!! 
LOST: BLUE ND ID POUCH. 
Contains: ID. license. detex, and 

keys attached. Please call: 
BRENDA at x4272 or return to: 
331 Farley. Reward! 
FOUNND: Walkman in Hurley 
Hall. x1630. 

Found-Timex watch, black band, ladies. at Senior Bar on 9/29. Call 13467, Doug to claim 
Lost-Pinnacle 1 golf ball. Last seen flyrng rnto D-6 parking lot, 10/1 , 1 0 a.m. May have found way into parked vehicle. Call Kevin, lf3467 
WANTED 

NJ bound for Oct. break? I NEED A RIDE!!! Will share$$$. Call Angi at X1280. 
NEED RIDE to/from MILWAUKEE 10/6-8 THIS WEEKEND gas$ 284-4201 """NEEDED""" A RIDE TO MID.­
EAST PA AFTER THE USC 
GAME. WILLPAY. CALLSTEVE 
X1723 
I need a ride back and forth to PA 
tor break. Will pay. Call John 
x1838. 
HELP!! NEED RIDE TO MASS./ BOSTON AREA FOR OCT BREAK WILL SHARE $$.CALL LIZ AT X1293 
HelpII Need ride to Columbus, OH. Oct. 6-8. Will share expenses. Please call Laney x4830 
Experienced keyboard player lor 
Notre Dame Hockey Games. 
Call239-5050 or 5227. 
I need a ride back and forth to PA 
for Oct break. Will pay expenses. 
Call John at x1838. 
FOR RENT 
2 BDRM HOME 2 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.272-6306 
FOR SALE 
COLOR TV RENTALS 
19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR: 
25-INCH, $90/SEM. $160/YR 
FREE DELIVERY 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­
5959 
Plane Ticket: SB to Newark for 
Fall Break--Super cheap!!! 
Call J. at 1870 
OVATION" COUNTRY 
ARTIST',ELEC. HOOK-UP 255­
3355 
One way ticket, SB to ALBANY NY leaving Fri. 1 0/14 FOR SALE CHEAP Call x3442. 
3 dining room chairs $1 Oea 
Mark or Kiny 289-2011 
4-8pm 
Have 2 PITT stud. tix call X 1306 
FOR SALE: ROUND-TRIP 
TICKET FROM CHICAGO TO 
BOSTON FOR FALL BREAK­
$195!11 WHAT A DEAL II! CALL 
BRYAN AT 272-7313 
SONY port CD car/home use: 
$1 00; JVC auto rev port stereo: 
$1 00; TEAC Dolby C tape deck: 
$75 <call Mark at 271-0672>. 
DENVER! DENVER! DENVER! 
For Sale: Round trip tic from SOUTH BEND to DENVER. Leave OCT. 20 PM. A True Bargain! Call284-5010. 
MACE 
PROTECT YOURSELF 4" purse size w/clip $9 local retail your price $7 limited supply call now 234-Q51 5 
HELP!! I HAVE BRAND NEW 
FUNAI VCR W/REM FOR SALE 
PAID $300 ON 9/20 -ASKING 
$265 OR BEST OFFER INCL. 2YR WAR &2 CLEANINGS CALL 1850 
TICKETS 
Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case avarlable. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. 
Need two SMU tix please call 284­49301111111111 
NEED SEVERAL PITT GA'S PLEASE!! #2819 
NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVYIII!I PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321111 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'S PLEASE CALL 277-9281 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAMES. CALL MATT 272-3491. 
PLEASE HELP!! I desperately need an SMU student of GA ticket!! Thanks! Johanna at If 4456 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need SMU and NAVY GA's: Call Jim at 287-9854 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

NEED 2 SMU GA'S BADLVI 
Call Krista X1618 
I'll buy any tickets for any home 
game, or Miami. 
call JEFF at 239-3714, 
leave a message. Thanks. 

SO. CAL-NEED 6 TIC'S 
HAVE 2 PITT, NAVY, SO. METH 
WILL TRADE 
CALL 215-642-2765 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill 
277-3653 
BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS I NEED 10. STUDENT or GA Call FRANK 287-5320 
NEED 2 GA'S & 2 STUDS FOR 
USC! NICOLE X2818 
NEED 6 USC GA'SI 
PLEASE CALL x4933 
I NEED LOTS OF USC STUD 
TIX!!! 
Call Hales at 3640 
NEED GAS FOR PITT, 
NAVY & SMU $$$$ 
CALL TOM & MARTY 
X3185 
WANTED: 2 STD & 4 GA FOR 
USC GAME WILL TOP ANY 
OFFER BIG BUCKS $$$ 
CALL BRIAN "1026 ANYTIME 
NO PRICE TOO HIGH !!I!!! II 
NEED 3 Pm GA TIX 
$$ CALL: 4272 
HAVE TIX! will trade any 2 tix to 
any game for 2 USC GAs or studs 
call3668 
Help! We need 2 GAs and 2 Stud. 
tix for NAVY!! Call x1278 
WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PITT OR SMU. 800-323-7687. 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S FOR 
FATHER. WILL PAY GOOD 
MONEY. RON 1723. 
WE NEED USC STUDS. AND GA'S. WILL PAY GOOD$$$. CALL BOB OR PAT AT X2313 
NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 
I am Rob. I need four GA's for the 
Navy game and you've got them. 
Call #1804 and I'll buy them. 
It is impossible to be in more dire 
need of USC tickets. We need a 
couple students and plenty-e­
GA's. 
Call #1804. (Adam, Pat, Bri, or 
Rob) 
One Pitt student ticket. The word is "cheap." Call Brian at #1804 
Wanted: 4 USC STUD TIX WILL 
PAY CASH CALL BOB x1747 
W3nted: 4 USC STUD TIX WILL 
PI\Y CASH CALL BOB x1747 
Aaaaaaarrrrrggggghhhhh! I! I! 
I still need 3 USC GA's 
Call John x2005 
Rich Alumni from Golden State 
need Tix for The USC game 
Call Sean x4327 
I NEED JUST ONE U.S.C. GA-­
call John at x3501. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S Willing to trade 2 Pitt. GA's & 1 USC hotel reservation! Call Robin@2933 
WANTED: 2 or 3 tickets for Navy 
game. Write: Fr. Tom McGettrick, 
725 Sodville, Sinton, TX 78387 or 
call Collect: 512-364-2210. 
DESIRE: 
2 GA'S And 1 STUD. TX to ANY HOME GAME . PLEASE CALL MICHELLE at X 2922. 
I need 4 GA's (together) For SMU or Pins Game. I will pay good 
money. Please call 271 8862 
NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL BUY OR TRADE 2 SMU GA'S + $$. CALL DIANE X3477. 
The folks need 2 GA's for Pin--call Scon@x1651 
NEED NAVY GA'S CALL 271-9830 HELP I Need 2-4 GA Tickets to the USC game. Will pay good price. Call collect (612) 929-5405. 
2 USC tickets Call 502-354-8826 
collect. 

1 or 2 NO/USC tickets wanted. Call Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 nights 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PITT 
GAME! CALL VANESSA AT 
X4933.$$$$ 
NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY 
HOME GAME ---CALL 
PAUL X3406 
I NEED ST. TICKS FOR PITT -----PAUL X3406----­
NEED 8 USC TIX CALL2207 
Dad will disown me if I don1 get 2 
PITT GA's.Call Mike 232-4208 
I NEED 2 STUD TIX FOR USC ­
ALSO HAVE 2 AIR FORCE GAS 
TO SELL OR TRADE. 
CALL INGRID #1915 
NEED USC GA'S 
WILL PAY $150 FOR PAIR 
MIKE X2451 OR X2473 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S OR STUDS Will pay big $$$CALL BILL X11 03 
PITT or USC GAs needed desperately. Please call Mike at #2288. 
Help! Need 3 GA tickets to Pin 
game. 317-743-7208. 
Need TIXX to any home football 
game.Big $$$.Call John X1583 
NEED 2 USC GAS AND 7 NAVY GAS!!I!!I CALL JULIE X3141 !!!!!!! 
TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S 312-920-9350 
I NEED USC, MIAMI, & ALL HOME GAME TIX 272-6306 
WANTED 2 FOR USC WILL TRADE 2 PENN ST 301-949-4392 COLLECT 
NEED up to 6 USC GAs. $ no problem. Jim x1236 
WILL TRADE 2 PITT GA's FOR 2 USC GA's 2773097 
ANY PITT GAs? Please call Mary at x4822! Very negotiable on price. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 USC GA'S PLEASE CALL BETH X2722 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Have 2 USC Std Tckts and$$ to trade for 4 NAVY GA's. Call277­9869. 
WANTED: 3 TICKETS ND V. USC. GRAD OR G; CALL COLLECT, 606-273-3164, 8PM-10PM. 
NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY I need 5 G.A.'s or anything you have together 
NAME YOUR PRICE!!!! Call Kyle-#3775 
I need GAs to USC and PITT Call Dan at 271-9821 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS CALL MATT AT 1961 · $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
2 USC GA's FOR SALE + HOTEL 
ROOM USC WEEKEND! BEST OFFER. x1335 
NEED USC GA'S OR STUD TIX CALL KIM 2971 
NEED 2 USC GA'S 
MIKE x3501 
Need 1 0 student and 6 GA tickets 
for PITT-Call Man at #3361 
TRADE: 2 Senior tix (sec. 29) for 
any two GA's for USC-call Pete 
X1699 

NEEDED: 1 USC STUD TICKET 
CALL CHESTER x1861 
•need 2 USC ga's Rick #1795 I need 3 tickets 
UNDvs PITT 
Reasonable $$ 
Call K. Sherry 232-2051 
Will trade original Picasso for 
2 or 4 Pitt GAs. 
x2055 Nick 
NEED 6 SMU GA'S 
TIM 271-8795 
I need USC, PITT, & NAVY GA's. 
Please call Colin at x1930. 
Needed: 2USC GA's will pay call 
Erin x4541 
I will trade USC stud. ticket for USC GA. I also have a PITT stud. ticket 4 SALE. Call Kevin x3216. 
Need Two GA's to NAVY. 
Call Jim 234-3656. 
I need one good NAVY GA 
In a really big way 
And you wouldn't believe 
What I'm willing to pay 
call $con x1635 
I HAVE PITT STUDENT TICKET!! 
I really NEED USC Stud. or GAl!! 
Wanna trade?? Call Marcie-1275 
Help: I need 2 I 4 PENN State GA's PLEA$E call Pete X1716 
USC Tickets Needed 
3 GA's. Will pay$$$$. 
Call John at 283-2005. 
PLEASE SELL ME YOUR USC STUD TIX-NEED TWO.HAVE PITT TIX TO SELL. CALL 2612!!!1!!!!!1 
I need two student tickets to the 
USC game. Call Martha at x1331. 
!!Help!! 
I need 2 USC and 1 Pitt 
Stud or GA!!! 
Please call Julie X4931 
I need GA tixs for all home games 
Esp. for USC $$ 284-5227 Pany 
I need 2 USC GA's 
Please call , Mary Kay 284-5227 
NEED 1 USC STUD TIX !!!!! PLEASE CALL JOHN X 3106 
NEED TWO GA'S FOR PITT CALL HEIDI287-8133 
HELP!!! I NEED 2 USC GA'S 
WILL PAY$$ ANITA 4975 
NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STUD TIX TO usc $3526 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 1 GA FOR USC 
WILL PAY$$$$$$ 
CALL PAT AT 283-1875 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
ARE YOU LEAVING EARLY FOR BREAK? LET ME BUY YOUR USC STUDENT TICKET! II! CALL PAT AT 1875.• 
TICKETS FOR SALE: USC AND 
PITT. HURRY WHILE SUPPLIES LAST! CALL 4817. 
I need one USC stud. I have mucho dinero. Please call Heather at #3765. 
Have PITT & SMU tickets!!! Need USG-Will trade and pay $$$ Kay-1333. 
Can I please have 2 GA's and 1 student ticket for the USC football game and 4 student tickets for the Pinsburgh one? I'm Tom and my phone number is 1128. Thank you. 
Need 2 Tix For Air Force wltradeUSC or PITT Stud Tix Call John x3779 After11 PM 
PERSONALS 
COOlCOOLCOOL The countdown is: 2DAYS!!!! 
ADOPTION. Lovrng couple dreamrng of adopting white il'lfant. LET'S HELP EACH OTHER! Legal/confidential. Expenses pa1d. Call Lillian and Ed collect. ANYTIME (212) 645-4344 
MIAMI FLIGHTS • MIAMI 
FLIGHTS 
Round-trip airfares to Miami or 
Fort Lauderdale. Depart Nov. 22 
from Midway (Chicago); return 
Nov. 27 to Midway (Chi.). 
$239 for students, $265 for others. 
Tix sold on first-come. first-serve 
basis, and are non-refundable. 
Anthony Travel 1-800-7DOMERS 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
TO 
"EWE" 
SUE FOX 
Got a night a month w/ nothrng to 
do? Sign up@ the CSC for a 
Senior Rap-Up Group by 10/9. 
Great food, friends & rap@ a 
prof's home. 
TAKE THE PLUNGE!!!! 
Urban Plunge applications due 
OCTOBER 13TH 
#lflf#lf#lflflf##lf####lflf# 
!!!!!EGNULP EHT EKAT 
MAII.II/1.111111.1111111111.11./\/\IIIIIII\/1 
--------Just Do 11-·--·------­
Going to MIAMI of OHIO? I need a ride there the wknd. of Oct. 14. Will help with $. Call Sarah at 13484. 
Good evening ladies, step right up, 
step right up! 
It's time to taint the love loft: new 
sheets are in place as of the 
29th. Wouldn't you love to be the 
first person in the section to enjoy 
the experience?!? You know you 
would!! 
Take a ride wrth the Crurse 
Director--he can do the -less 
dance, the one, the only. 
SPALDING 
EXCUSE ME...PHIL KRAKER, 
Are you busy for the next fifty 
years? I hope not. I need a date 
Thanks for taking care of me Philly 
Phil, I hope I can return the favor. 
Love, 
Molly 
TO: THE BENTON HARBOR 
BIRTHDAY GIRL 
Yes you Jen Smith; this message contains NONE of the things you hold dear to your heart: chocolate. Dr. Seuss. chocolate, stuffed ducks with faulty ribbons, frozen yogurt and volleyball. All it has is a wish for the best birhday ever for one of the greatest and dearest persons I know! Love ya lots! TRUST 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 
Thomas Swartz 
Professor of Economics 
College Fellow reponds to "Does 
America Have a Place in the 
International Market Place?" 
Thursday -October 5 -7:00p.m. 
All are invited. 
Female Models needed for LA 
Hair Competition. Nov 10-14. All 
expenses paid. Call Cosima 277­
1875 
CAMPUS Representatives needed for "Spring Break 90" programs to Mexico-Bahmas-Fiorida & S Padre Island -Earn Free Vacation plus $$$$. Call 800-448-2421 
SPRING BREAK SAILING 
BAHAMAS 45ft Captained Yachts. 
Groups of Eight. Seven Days 
Barefoot in the Bahamas. 
$445.00pp All Accommodations & 
Meals SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE 
1-800-999-7245 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYEA AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901 
MATT GRAYSON: Happy Birthday from all your friends at The 0. Hope it was fun turning 211 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Prof. of Econ.Thomas Swartz College fellow responds to "Does America have a place in the International Marketplace?" Thursday, Oct. 5-7:00om 
see CLASS I page 13 
..

Sports Wednesday 
October 4, 1989 page 11 
TOP 25 POLL AL BASEBALL ScoREBOARD 
ATHLETICS 7, BLUE JAYS 3 Results from Sept. 27 to Oct. 3Record PtsPvs 
1. Notre Dame (57) 4-0-0 1,497 1 TORONTO OAKLAND 2. Miami, Fla. (-3) 4-0-0 1.426 2 
ct> r h bi ct> r h bi 
3. Colorado 4-0-0 1,344 5 
Moseby cf 4 0 0 0 RHrdsn If 2 1 0 0
4. Nebraska 4-0-0 1,324 3 Volleyball (3-8)
Wilson rf 3 0 1 0 Lansfrd 3b 5 1 2 2
5. Michigan 2-1-0 1,234 6 0 0 Canseco rf 4 0 0 06. Tennessee 4-0-0 1,193 12 McGriff 1b 4 0 Notre Dame del. Purdue, 8-15, 15-12, 
7. 
Arkansas 3-0-0 1,118 8 Bell If 4 1 1 0 Parker dh 4 0 1 1 

8. 
Pittsburgh 3-0-1 961 10 Fernndz ss 4 1 1 0 DHdrsn cf 4 1 2 1 


15-6, 15-5

9. Southern Cal 3-1-0 939 11 Whitt c 3 1 1 2 McGwir 1b 4 1 1 1 (tie) West Virginia 4-0-1 939 9 Gruber 3b 3 0 0 0 Steinbch c 4 0 1 0 11. Auburn 2-1-0 892 4 Soccer 
Mazzilli dh 3 0 0 0 Phillips 2b 3 1 2 0 
12. Houston 3-0-0 879 14 
Liriano 2b 2 0 1 1 Gallego ss 4 2 2 0
13. Alabama 3-0-0 807 13 Men's (5-4-1) 
Totals 34 7 11 5
Totals 3J 3 5 3 15. Clemson 4-1-0 665 7 14. N. Carolina St. 5-0-0 669 15 Indiana 3, Notre Dame 1 
16. 
Oklahoma 3-1-0 637 16 Toronto 020 100 000--3 

17. 
Syracuse 2-1-0 496 18 Oakland 010 013 02x-7 


Wisconsin 3, Notre Dame 1 (OT) 18.111inois 2-1-0 419 20 E-Liriano. DP-Oakland 1. LOB-Toronto 4, Oakland 8. 28-Phillips, Gallego. HR-D.Henderson (1 ), Whitt (1 ), 

19. Texas A&M 3-1-0 375 22 McGwire (1). SB-R.Henderson 2 (2), Fernandez (1), Liriano (1), Wilson (1), Lansford (1), Phillips (1). SF-Whitt. 
20. Air Force 5-0-0 371 24 21. Washington St. 4-1-0 334 19 
IP H R ER BB so
22. Florida St. 2-2-0 171 25 Women's (5-6) 23. Oregon 3-1-0 162 -
Toronlo 
24. 
Michigan St. 1-2-0 128 -Stieb L,0-1 51-3 8 4 4 2 6 Notre Dame 4, Indiana 1 

25. 
UCLA 2-2-0 103 -Acker 1 2-3 1 1 0 0 1 Other receiving votes: Virginia 86, Ward 1 2 2 2 2 2 


Notre Dame 4, Michigan 3 Arizona 48, Penn St. 47, South Carolina 

Oakland 
45, Washington 35, Louisville 34, Fresno Stewart W, 1-0 8 5 3 3 3 6 St. 29, Brigham Young 28, Georgia 15, Eckersley 1 0 0 0 0 0 Hawaii 12, LSU 11, Arizona St. 9, Ohio St. 
HBP-R.Henderson by Acker. WP-Ward. PB-Whitt.
6, Indiana 3, Duke 2, Florida 2, Mississippi Women's golf
Umpires-Home, Phillips; First, Morrison; Second, Ford; Third, Cousins; Left, Reed; Right, Palermo.
2, Army 1, E. Michigan 1, East Carolina 1. Notre Dame placed tenth in the 
SPORTS CALENDAR BASEBALL CALENDAR 
Michigan State Invitational with aSports Calendar 

PLAYOFFS WORLD SERIES American League National League Saturday, Oct. 14-at AL, 8:31 p.m. score of 1,016 for the 54-hole Home games in CAPS 
Tuesday, Oct. 3 Wednesday, Oct. 4 Sunday, Oct. 15-at AL, 8:28p.m. Oakland 7, Toronto 3, Oakland leads San Francisco (Garrelts 14-5) at Tuesday, Oct. 17-at NL, 8:31 p.m. tournament series 1-0 Chicago (Maddux 19-12), 8:24p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 18-at NL, 8:28 Wednesday, Oct. 4 Thursday, Oct. 5 p.m. Toronto (Stottlemyre 7-7) at Oakland San Francisco at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Thursday, Oct. 19 -at NL, 8:28 
Wednesday (Moore 19-7), 3:06p.m. Saturday, Oct. 7 p.m., if necessary Men's Tennis Friday, Oct. 6 Chicago at San Francisco, 8:20p.m. Saturday, Oct. 21 -at AL, 8:28 Volleyball at Ohio State, 7:30 p.m. 

Oakland at Toronto, 8:20p.m. Sunday, Oct. 8 p.m., if necessary Four Notre Dame freshman-Ryan Saturday, Oct. 7 Chicago at San Francisco, 8:20 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 22-at AL, 8:28p.m.,
Women's soccer vs. ST. JOSEPH, 5 
Oakland at Toronto, 1:06 p.m. Monday, Oct. 9 if necessary Lee, Ron Rosas, Andy Zurcher and Sunday, Oct. 8 Chicago at San Francisco, 3:06 p.m., 
p.m. 
Oakland at Toronto, 4:36 p.m., if if necessary Paul Anthony reached the finals in the necessary Wednesday, Oct. 11 Tuesday, Oct. 10 San Francisco at Chicago, 3:06p.m., Tom Fallon Invitational Toronto at Oakland, 8:20p.m., if if necessary necessary Thursday, Oct. 12 
NVA ACTION 

Wednesday, Oct. 11 San Francisco at Chicago, 8:35p.m.,
Thursday 

Toronto at Oakland, 8:20p.m., if if necessary Women's lnterhall Team-Singles necessary 
Quarter-finalsNo sports scheduled 

NFL STANDINGS 
Tracy Pycik over Miller 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 

Cathleen Haynes over Kristen EastFriday 
w L T Pet FT PA Home Away AFC f\FC Div 
Tortorella 

Buffalo 3 1 0 .750 119 103 1-1-0 2-0-0 3-1-0 0-0-0 2-0-0 
Semi-finalsVolleyball vs. NORTHERN ILLINOIS, lndnplis 2 2 0 .500 71 8) 1-1-0 1-1-0 1-0-0 1-2-0 1-0-0 

Miami 1 3 0 .250 88 116 0-2-0 1-1-0 1-3-0 0-0-0 1-2-0 Tracy Pycik over Cathleen Haynes7:30p.m. 
N England1 3 0 .250 50 103 0-2-0 1-1-0 1-3-0 0-0-0 1-2-0 NY Jets 1 3 0 .250 00 115 0-2-0 1-1-0 1-3-0 0-0-0 1-2-0 Graduate/Faculty Tennis Singles Women's soccer vs. MIAMI OF OHIO, Central 
Anals

Cincnnati 3 1 0 .750 97 58 2-0-0 1-1-0 3-0-0 0-1-0 2-0-0 
1 p.m. 
Cleveland 3 1 0 .750 119 58 2-0-0 1-1-0 3-1-0 0-0-0 1-1-0 
Benjamin Vicuna over Knock

Houston 2 2 0 .500 121 119 1-1-0 1-1-0 2-1-0 0-1-0 0-0-0 
Men's soccer vs. Cal State-Los Pittsbrgh 2 2 0 .500 60 109 1-1-0 1-1-0 0-2-0 2-0-0 0-2-0 West
Angeles at Santa Clara, 6 p.m. NVA Outdoor Volleyball
Denver 3 1 0 .750 106 71 2-0-0 1-1-0 3-1-0 0-0-0 2-0-0 San Diego2 2 0 .500 ffi ffi 1-1-0 1-1-0 1-2-0 1-0-0 1-1-0 
Women's and men's cross country in Seattle 2 2 0 .500 79 88 0-1-0 2-1-0 2-0-0 0-2-0 1-0-0 
P.B. Antelopes over Hogans Heros Kan. City 1 3 0 .250 67 g; 1-1-0 0-2-0 1-3-0 0-0-0 1-2-0 NOTRE DAME INVITATIONAL 
LA Raidrs 1 3 0 .250 100 ffi 1-1-0 0-2-0 1-3-0 0-0-0 1-3-0 
St. Ed's over Morrissey NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
East 
Bulger/Rooney over Facedown w L T Pet FT PA Home Away AFC NFC Div 
Saturday NY Giants4 0 0 1.000 116 58 2-0-0 2-0-0 0-0-0 4-0-0 3-0-0 Semi-finals
Phila 2 2 0 .500 114 109 1-1-0 1-1-0 1-0-0 1-2-0 1-0-0 Volleyball vs. EASTERN MICHIGAN, Phoenix 2 2 0 .500 70 95 0-1-0 2-1-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 0-1-0 Islanders over P.B. Antelopes
Washngtn\ 2 2 0 .500 107 00 0-2-0 2-0-0 0-0-0 2-2-0 1-2-0 
7:30p.m. Dallas 0 4 0 .000 41 115 0-2-0 0-2-0 0-0-0 0-4-0 0-2-0 St. Ed's over Bulger/Rooney
Central Football at Stanford Chicago 4 0 0 1.000 129 61 3-0-0 1-0-0 1-0-0 3-0-0 2-0-0 Green Bay 2 2 0 .500 117 119 2-1-0 0-1-0 0-0-0 2-2-0 0-1-0 
Golf Scramble Minnesota 2 2 0 .500 76 75 2-0-0 0-2-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 TampaBay2 2 0 .500 62 68 1-1-0 1-1-0 0-0-0 2-2-0 1-1-0 
1st place Mark Mieczkowski Detroit 0 4 0 .000 57 110 0-3-0 0-1-0 0-1-0 0-3-0 0-1-0
Sunday West 

& Ken Parch LA Rams 4 0 0 1.000 116 88 2-0-0 2-0-0 1-0-0 3-0-0 2-0-0Men's soccer at Santa Clara, 2 p.m. 
San Fran 3 1 0 .750 100 81 0-1-0 3-0-0 1-0-0 2-1-0 0-1-0 
2nd place John Adams & Jim Atlanta 1 3 0 .250 78 88 1-1-0 0-2-0 0-1-0 1-2-0 0-1-0
Men's golf at MCC Championships 
NewOrlns 1 3 0 .250 ffi 71 1-1-0 0-2-0 0-0-0 1-3-0 0-0-0 
Prisby 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
lnterhall football results and standings Men's Parsegian League Leahy League 
Monday 

as of Oct. 1 Rockne League Dillon 13, Morrissey 6 Cavanaugh 7, Holy Cross 0 
Men's golf at MCC Championships Women's Fisher 7, Carroll 0 Off-Campus 7, Flanner 0 Alumni 20, Stanford 0 
Farley (3-0) 14, Badin (0-3) 0 Sarin 12, St. Ed's 6 Grace 17, Keenan 0 
Tuesday Breen-Phillips (2-0) 14, Lyons (2-2) 12 Grace (2-0) 
Cavanaugh (2-0) 

Men's golf at MCC Championships Howard (3-1) 6, Pasquerilla East (0-2) Pangborn (1-0) Off-Campus (2-0) 
Alumni (1-0) 

Women's soccer vs. TRI-STATE, 7:30 0 Sarin (1-0) Dillon (1-1) Holy Cross (0-1-1) 
p.m. Siegfried (3-0) 26, Walsh (0-2) 14 Carroll (1-1) Flanner (0-1-1) Stanford (0-1-1) 
Oct. 11 Knott (1-2) 12, Pasquerilla West (0-3) 6 Fisher ( 1-1) Keenan (0-1-1) 
Zahm (0-1) 

No sports scheduled St. Ed's (0-2) Morrissey (0-2) 
The Observer Wednesday, October 4, 1989
page 12 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Ultimate Frisbee games will be played in Loftus Center from 9 to 11 p.m. weeknights. The rosters are due at the NVA office by Wednesday, Oct. 4. 
NVA swim relays will be held Wednesday, Oct. 12, at Rolfs Aquatics Center. Students must represent their own hall, and halls may have more than one team. The deadline for rosters is Wednesday, Oct. 4. 
Training sessions for Red Cross water safety instructors will begin at 6 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 5, in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. There will be six sessions of four hours each. The cost of texts and materials is $30. 
Irish Outdoors will have a meeting at 7 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 5, in Notre Dame Room of Lafortune. Any interested stu­dents should attend. Call 271-9901 for more information. 
Boxing Club needs a manager/trainer to help with work­outs, equipment and administrative responsibilities. No ex­perience is necessary, and either males or females may ap­ply. Call x1818 for more information. 
Women's track and field will hold a mandatory meeting at 7 p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 4, in the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC. Call x2870 for more information. 
Horseback riding trip is being sponsored by NVA on Sunday, Oct. 12, for students and staff. The cost of $10 in­cludes transportation. Register in advance at the NVA office or call 239-6100 for more information. 
Deadlines for NVA interhall racquetball and co-ree water polo are Friday, Oct. 6. Register in the NVA office. 
Salling Club will have a skipper's test review session fol­lowing the 6:30 p.m. Wednesday meeting. Dues must be paid 
before taking the test. 

Football 
continued from page 16 
Stepan North at 3 p.m., Carroll (1-1) and Pangborn (1-0) struggle at Stepan South at 3 p.m., while St. Ed's (0-2) has the day off. 
Finally, in Leahy League con­tention, Alumni (1-0) and Cavanaugh (2-0) clash in a battle of undefeateds . 
Experience could make difference 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO The San Francisco Giants have plenty of playoff experience and the Chicago Cubs have hardly any at all. 
So how important is it, any­way? 
"The more you're in it, the better you play under pressure," Giants manager Roger Craig said. "You don't see many teams come out of nowhere to win it all." 
"I don't see any advantage in experience," Cubs star Ryne Sandberg said. "What makes this so special is we weren't ex­pected to do anything." 
The Giants, with nearly 20 players who have been in the postseason, and the Cubs, with only six who have been there, open the National League play­offs Wednesday night. The weather at Wrigley Field is ex­pected to be clear but chilly, with the temperature dropping into the 40s because of the wind off Lake Michigan. 
Greg Maddux (19-8) will start for the Cubs against Scott Garrelts (14-5), the league earned run average champion. Garrelts is one of several Giants who have pitched in the playoffs, although he wasn't so great in the 1987 series against St. Louis. 
"They've got older pitchers," Maddux, 23, said. "I think they might be more relaxed on the mound than some of ours." 
But what good is playoff experience if it isn't so good? 
Rick Reuschel gave up seven runs on 15 hits in 10 innings of the 1987 playoffs and Robby Thompson hit only .100 in that series. Kevin Mitchell is only 12-for-46 with one home run in postseason play, Candy Maldonado is a career .179 hit­ter in the playoffs and Terry Kennedy batted .217 for San Diego in 1984. 
Luis Salazar is the only Chicago player who has been in the World Series. He helped the Padres beat Rick Sutcliffe in the deciding game of the 1984 playoffs. 
The Cubs' Andre Dawson would like to forget his only other postseason appearance, when he went 3-for-20 with Montreal in 1981. 

"You only get here so often, and some don't make it at all," Dawson said, referring to Cubs Hall of Famers Ernie Banks and Billy Williams. "But I have been in big games and I know a lot is expected from me." 
A few of the Cubs and Giants have done well. Sandberg, the only everyday starter left from the Cubs' 1984 team, batted .368 in that playoff series. 
"I've forgotten what that was like in 1984," Sandberg said. "That seems like a long time ago." 
Will Clark hit .360 with a home run for the Giants in the seven-game loss in 1987. Their star that series was Jeffrey Leonard, who was named most valuable player, then traded to Milwaukee the next season. 
Some of the Giants' best playoff performers may play little, if at all. Dave Dravecky, who has allowed only one earned run in 21 career postseason innings, is out with a broken arm. 
Reliever Craig Lefferts, who has pitched 12 shutout innings for San Diego in 1984 and the Giants in 1987, has a sore shoulder. 
"I proabably won't be able to use him as much as I'd like," Craig said. "We'll see how he feels." 
The same goes for Kennedy and pitcher Don Robinson. Kennedy is bothered by a sore arm and Craig said the left­handed hitting catcher might not start against all of the Cubs' right-handers. 
Robinson, bothered by stretched ligaments in his right knee, pitched batting practice during Tuesday's workouts. 
"We may be the only team in history to have a simulated game during the playoffs," Craig said. 
Robinson and Craig are among the Giants' postseason veterans. Robinson helped Pittsburgh win the 1979 World Series and was with the Giants in 1987. He has a 2-1 record despite a 5.40 ERA. 
Craig pitched in four World Series with the Brooklyn Dodgers, was the pitching coach for Detroit's World Series champions in 1984 and has managed the Giants twice into the playoffs. 
Cubs manager Don Zimmer was Craig's teammate in 1955, the only year Brooklyn won the World Series. He also coached under Craig in 1987. 
"He was one of the greatest third-base coaches ever," Craig said. "From the dugout, I used to send him signs, asking what he would do sometimes." 

HOW TO LAND A JOB BY GRADUATION 
A Nuts and Bolts Presentation on How To Interview on Campus 
...What Should Your Strategy Be? ...What Should You Say In An Interview? ...What Should Not Be Said? ...What Do Companies Look For? ...How Does Business Perceive Notre Dame Graduates? 
Tim Plunkett, National Director of College Recruiting for The May Department Stores Company, will conduct a practical, dpwn-to-earth, "what's it like from the company's point of view" presentation on college recruiting. Mr Plunkett brings 10 years of college recruiting experience and is a previous director of recruiting for a "Big 8" accounting firm. 
DATE:  Thursday, October 5, 1989  
TIME:  7:00p.m.  
PLACE:  Hayes-Healy Auditorium  

IIEill 

Wednesday, October 4, 1989 
Knott suprises PW,12-6; BP downs Lyons 
By JOHANNA KELLY Sports Writer 
This weekend proved to be one of intensity for the Women's lnterhall flag football teams. 
In Sunday's action, Pasquerilla West's women's interhall flag football team was upset 12-6 by Knott. Pasquerilla West sent two players to the hospital with injuries in this controversial game. The tie-breaking touchdown occurred in the final minutes of the game, giving Knott the lead. 
Knott far.es Farley at 7 p.m. 
Wednesday. Howard and Badin will square off after that contest. 
In another close game Wednesday, Breen-Phillips shaved Lyons Hall 14-12 in an intense match. B.P.'s Kristy Alkidas scored both of the Blitz's touchdowns. 
"We played really well," said B.P. captain Mary Beth Hoveda. "Lyons was a tough team to beat, and they gave us a run for our money.'' 
In other action, Farley defeated Badin 14-0, Iloward blanked Pasquerilla East 6-0 and Siegfried won a shootout with Walsh 26-14. 
---"--~-------~---~----­
-~-~--~--------------, 

The Observer page 13 
-

Class 
continued from page 1 0 
FEMALE AUDITIONS for Noises Off will be held wednesday in the St. Ed's 1st floor lounge at 7:30. Questions, call Raul (1515) or Mark (1513) 
HiAg! 
ERIC, Happy Belated 21st!!! RG 
Need 1 Northwest airline voucher .Will pay cash.Call Mike X2446 
An innocent D .A. R.T. turns into a bomb ... We live in hell! 
Michelle'2 

CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple in Midwest wishes to adopt newborn" We offer stable and happy home, financial security, welcoming extended family. PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 after 6:30 pm weekdays, anytime weekends"Attorney involved. 
JUNIOR CLASS FALL FORMAL 
Oct. 6 at Century Center Tickets ($20) available at Class Office (3-5 pm.) 
sold thru Oct. 4 
SENIOR CLASS CRUISE ON THE SPIRIT OF CHICAGO TIX ON SALE IN SR. CLASS OFFICE 3-5 MON-FRI LIMITED AMOUNT! 
Need student to teach our two daughters aged 8 and 9 , to play the piano. 4 mi. north of ND. Late afternoons, place negotiable. Call Kathy 277-7446. 
NEEDED: 4 OR 6 NAVY GA's CALL ANNETIE 284-4344 
HPC FAMILY FOCUS BEGINS TONIGHT WITH FR. HIMES SPEAKING ON "THE 
CATHOLIC FAMILY IN MODERN TIMES" AT 7 PM IN SORIN (SPONSORED BY SORIN AND WALSH) 
Wade and Matt-Thanks tor a great time at the SYR! Every time we see a Wall Street Journal, we'll think of you. Love, Theresa and Mary 
P.S. We loved your suits. Dr. Seuss would be proud! 
Box: 
I will pick up the eggs and milk on the way home from class. Signed, Your Loving Sock Drawer 
Drummer and Keyboardist looking to form a quality rock band Call Tom 3213 or Kevin 3216 
USC TIX NEEDED!!! 4 GA'S AND 2 STUD. CALL SHARON 238-5246 

T E L E c 0 M M u N I c A T I 0 N s 
If you think you've come far in the past four years, you won't believe how far you'll go in the next five. 
If you've spent the past four years developing a solid technical background, we have an extraordinary opportunity for your next five: The Travelers Telecommunications Technology Management Program (TTMP). 
The most comprehensive training pro­gram of its kind in the financial services indus­try, TTMP is a five-year introduction to a state-of-the-art telecommunications environ­ment. Through a variety of rotational assign­ments-and supplemental classroom study­TTMP is singly focused on developing the man­agers who will keep us on the cutting edge. 
TTMP is not easy and it's not for every­one. But, if you're looking to develop the full range of skills needed to manage the most sophisticated telecommunications technology available, there's simply no better place to begin your career. 
Find out more. Pick up a copy of our brochure in your placement office. We11 be on campus November 16th. Sign up by Tuesday, October 17th. Or send your resume to: John 
S. Breckenridge, The Travelers Companies, 1-30-CR, OneTower Square, Hartford, CT 06183. 
TheTravelersr' 
You're better off under the Umbrella~ 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 


----------------~ -~ -~--------~----------­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, October 4, 1989 
...

Irish try to change history 

By MOLLY MAHONEY Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame volleyball team is hoping that its series history with Ohio State won't hold true to its pattern. 
The Buckeyes were victorious in five games in the teams' first meeting in 1985 but the Irish avenged the loss the following year in a four-game match. 
After a two-year interruption in series, the squads met again in 1988 as the Irish came away with a three-game triumph, 15-5, 16-14, 15-7 to put Notre Dame ahead 2-1 in the series. 
But if the two teams continue to exchange wins and losses, this could be the Buckeyes year to even the score. 
Ohio State, now 11-3 with wins over Northwestern, Wisconsin, Purdue and Illinois-who was ranked seventh nationally last week, Is primed and ready to do just that. 
The Buckeyes are led by junior outside hitter Holly O'Lr,ary who has amassed 
Baseball 
continued from page 16 
was down to second in a flash and his slide caused Liriano to make a wild throw allowing two runs to score. 
"That was a situation we couldn't let get away," Henderson said. "That was the game." 
Lansford was given an RBI, but Henderson gets the credit. 
"It was a double play ball all the way," Toronto manager Cito Gaston said. "Nelson had a good grip. If he makes a good throw we have him." 
Henderson came back to Oakland on June 20 in a trade with New York Yankees and sparked the A's offense the rest of the season. He led the league with 77 steals, including 52 of 58 with Oakland. 
''I'm part of it, but it's our big guys who get it going," Henderson said. 
"That's our styl!r," Oakland manager Tony La Russa said. "We're a very aggressive team." 
Stewart allowed five hits, 
Working for Peace Our 

resource guide brings together a wide range ofapproachesinto one easy-to-use book covering peace organizations, arms control, personal diplomacy, peace studies, how to work through your church, school, business or local government, and lots more. For your reference and for friends who 
don't know where 
to 
begin. $5.95 per 
copy 

-


The Fund for Peace 
3t5 East .6th Stree~ New York 10017 
252 kills with a 4.52 kill per game average and teammates Audrey DiPronio and Dawn Douglas. 
DiPronio, a junior setter who has 637 assists and a 
13.0 assist per game average, and Douglas, a middle blocker who has tallied 72 total blocks for a team-high 1.30 block per game average, will try to take advantage of Notre Dame's recent shuffling in its lineup. 
Senior captain Kathy Cunningham, who has played every position on the court during her career, will take a stab at playing middle hitter after being switched from right side hitter. 
She will get some help from freshman outside hitter Alicia Turner, who leads the Irish with a team-high 136 kills per game average, 106 digs, 2.47 digs per game and 25 service aces. 
Senior setter Taryn Collins, who has tallied 282 assists for a 10.85 assist per game average, will try to keep putting well-placed sets within the reach of Turner and hitter Jessica Fiebelkorn. 
struck out six and walked three in eight innings. Stewart, who has three consecutive 20-game seasons, has won nine of his last 11 decisions against the Blue Jays. 
Dennis Eckersley, who had 33 saves, got the last three outs in a no-save situation. 
Game 2 of the playoffs is scheduled for 12:06 p.m. PDT Wednesday. Todd Stottlemyre (7-7} is scheduled to start for the Blue Jays against Mike Moore (19 -11}. 
The playoffs shift to the SkyDome on Friday. The Blue Jays won 20 of their last 26 home games. 
Ernie Whitt, the last original Blue Jay, gave the Blue Jays a 3-1 lead when he led off the fourth inning with a home run. 
Oakland closed to within 3-2 in the fifth when Lansford singled with one out, stole second and scored on Dave Parker's opposite-field, broken­bat single to left. In postseason play last season, Parker did not have an RBI in 27 at-bats. 
The pitching duel that was expected got off to a shaky start as neither Stewart nor Stieb had command. 

Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. ­

Miami Hurricanes freshman Gino Torretta has discovered that playing quarterback for the nation's second-ranked team is no laughing matter. 
Torretta will make his first collegiate start Saturday against Cincinnati. He's filling in for Craig Erickson, who broke a finger in the second quarter of last Saturday's 26­20 victory at Michigan State. 
Torretta's promotion has changed his personality. 
"I like joking around on the field more than Craig does," Torretta said Tuesday. "He's more serious. But I'll have to get more serious now that I'm a starter.... 
"Did I crack any jokes on Saturday? No." 
But he was all smiles after the game. In Miami's biggest win this season, Torretta completed 15 of 29 passes for 134 yards and one touchdown. 
He threw two interceptions that led directly to 14 Michigan State points, but he also had a hand in 23 Miami points. 
"Gino's performance, I thought, was admirable," Coach Dennis Erickson said. 
"Craig, to me, has the strongest arm in college foot­ball. But Gino has a way-above­average arm. There isn't a lot of difference between the two." Miami has averaged 47 passes in its first four games. 
"We're going to keep doing the same things," the coach said. "Nothing's going to change." 
Craig Erickson, who broke the lower knuckle on the index finger of his right (throwing} hand, is expected to be sidelined four weeks. He's doubtful for the Hurricanes' showdown Oct. 28 at .Florida State. 
Erickson is the first Miami starting quarterback to be sidelined with an injury since Vinny Testaverde fell off a motor scooter in 1986 and missed a game against East Carolina. Testaverde's replacement was Torretta's older brother, Geoff, who threw for 328 yards and three scores. "He had a week to prepare for East Carolina," Torretta said. "I had three minutes against Michigan State." 
Torretta, who turned 19 in August, said the confidence his teammates expressed in him provided a boost. 
"I had the jitters, but as soon as people started coming up to me and saying, 'You can do the job,' you forget about all that stuff,'' Torretta said. 'Til be ready to go against Cincinnati." The redshirt freshman from Pinole, Calif., threw only 13 passes in Miami's first three games. He'll now be backed up by highly regarded freshman Bryan Fortay, who has yet to take a snap in a game and might still be redshirted this season. 
"Bryan's on red-alert now," Coach Erickson said. 

Accounting and Finance Majors 
ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 
~ 
presents: 
Accounting Ain't Jt'hat It Used to Be A Look at the 1990~ & Beyond 
Guest Speaker: Jim Kackley Office Managing Partner -Chicago 
Wednesday, October 4, 1989 7:00p.m. Monogram Room Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center 
Reception to Follow Casual Dress 
Wednesday, October 4, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday ACROSS 28 Nipponese 47 Quaker's aborigine pronoun
1 Minnow's 
Noon & 4:30 p.m. "Culture on the Quad," Fieldhouse Mall. 29 Leprechaun 48 Yell
relative 5 Batman's aide 51 Parlor game 
32 A Mideast 5 p.m. Women's Soccer vs. St. Joseph's Rensselaer. sultanate
10 Rubber on a 55 The oak 
pitcher's mound 33 Quivering tree 
58 Followers of 
6 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a recep­14 Land of the 34 A Tai language 
C.SA's Robert
tion for Mathematics, E&CE, and Slavic and Eastern lan­Peacock Throne 
35 Bushy plants of 

59 Speechify
guage majors interested in discovering career opportuni­15 Aviator-states-southern Africa ties with the National Security Agency, 300 Math Building. man Balbo 60 Otherwise
39 Printers' 16 Helper 
measures 61 Over 17 A ribbonfish 
40 Fools 
62 Dads20 What's for 

41 An affected 

63 Legislativedinner
LECTURE CIRCUIT attitude assembly21 Haul over the 
42 Society-page

coals Wednesday 22 Gadabout word 
DOWN
43 Sediment

23 Asian tree 44 Kidnapper, e.g. 1 Flood fighter's 
4:20 p.m. Physics Department presents, "Calculations of 25 Dravidian 
barrier
the Properties of Carbon and Silicon at High Temperature people 46 This may thicken 
and Pressure," by Richard Martin, University of Illinois, 2 "Rigoletto" feature
Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Tilt; tip up 7 p.m. "Crossed Signals on a Saturday Night: Straight 
4 Attractive Talk about Dating," by Barry Burkhart, Auburn Univer­
5 Pillages 
sity Psychology Department, Hesburgh Library Audito­
6 Furry swimmer 
rium. 
19 Approximately 31 Vestibule 47 Greek letter 7 Remarks by 23 Gas lines 33 Advantage 48 Beehive
Scrooge 24 Lulu 36Start 49 Markings on 
a Seine sight 
MENUS 25 Subway rider's energetically bean seeds 9 Some votes need 37 Italian lake 50 Individuals 26 An ammonia 38 Seemed 51 Fellow derivative 
44 Irritates 52 Salami shop

27 Cleric's home 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 45 Plane or 
53 Existence

Oven Fried Chicken Beef-n-Bean Tostada 28 Fireplace dynamicresidue 
54 Let it be 

Chipped Beef Spinach Crepes beginning Veggie Chow Mein Chicken Paprika 29 Part of T.S.E. 46 Pacific Coast 56 Coxcomb Beer Steamed Brats Deli Bar ancient Greece 30 Riata sound 57 Refrain syllable 

COMICS 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 

1-10, I N1iM IOI'IT'~.D l3 )'
H£ y) :t WP6 6-JOOD tiJ 
M'( "Ttt~EAT 10 6!/VE
MY DA'I". WH'( WlotEN 
G-1"'1 ltL.l.. 1?lt131~5
:t HAD il:tE BAl-L 
I . 

ON( WA-NTeO 
GtOj:tR,D M~. \ 
I 


ReiDinders froiD SUB: 

are needed for the
Crr~rm~~\\7~ rP~©~~~ SUB Publicity Com~nittee 
Meetings every Thursday, 7:00PM, SUB Office 
Notice to the 
©lYlaUruHr~a ~flU® ©flu~©~@© IJrr~[F) ©©[]])[]])~UU®® 
Meeting TONIGHT at 5:00 PM in the SUB Office 

...... ~-­
Sports

page 16 Wednesday, October 4, 1989 
Dillon, Alumni post weekend wins 
By DAVID DIETEMAN successful two-point conver­less first half, Fisher came out Sports Writer sion, put the Dogs up 14-0. and swamped the Vermin in the Alumni's frustrating defense, second half. Interceptions by · 
Power football was the order bolstered by utility-man Tim Kaiser and Chris McCarthy of the day on the second Brenden Fitzpatrick, also ac­hampered Carroll's efforts, Sunday of men's Interhall foot­counted for a score, as Greg giving the Fisher offense all the ball, as Alumni, Dillon, and Culligan returned an intercep­room it would need, as Rick Fisher slugged their way to tion to the Stanford 5 yard line. Ebert connected with Jonathan convincing victories. Hyan Hoberts then cruised Jordan on a 50 yard touchdown In the Leahy League the across the goal line, ending the pass. Don McGahn then kicked 
Alumni Dogs, captained by scoring at 20-0. the extra point, giving the Urban Gillespie, rocked 1988 In Parseghian League action, Green Wave a 7-0 victory. runner-up Stanford 20-0, be­1988 champion Dillon evened In the day's other games, hind the dazzling performances its record at 1-1 with a 13-6 Sorin thumped St. Ed's 12-6, of backup quarterback Mark triumph over Morrissey, while Cavanaugh outdueled Holy Hoss and reserve tailback Ryan the Manor dropped to 0-2. The Cross 7-0, Off-Campus van­Hoberts. On Saturday night, Big Red held an early 7-0 lead, quished Flanner 7-0, and Grace Dogs regular quarterback Jim the result of a Michael Duddy ambushed Keenan 17-0. Passinault suffered a sprained touchdown and an Anthony Next Sunday in the ankle. To add to the plight, the Coury kick. Morrissey rolled Parseghian League, Grace (1-1) starting tailback came down back, narrowing the margin to meets Flanner (0-1-1) at with mononucleosis on Sunday 7-6, after a touchdown and un­Stepan North at 1 p.m., Keenan morning. successful two-point attempt. (0-1-1) will test Morrissey (0-2) 
Yet the reserves were a Dillon was able to break the big at Stepan North at 4 p.m., force of their own, as Alumni play at the end, as Scott Frigon while Dillon (1-1) and the Off­led 6-0 following a five yard rambled 60 yards to the end Campus Crime (2-0) collide at The Observer I Kevin Weise rush by Mark Ross and a failed zone, putting Dillon up for Stepan South at 1 p.m. two-point conversion. Ross good. In the Hockne League, Sorin Cavanaugh's Roger Ptak celebrates with teammate Flip Malloy in the then stunned the Stanford de­Meanwhile, Fisher topped (1-0) faces Fisher (1-1) at end-zone with a high flying high-five. Ptak returned an interception for fense, speeding 60 yards for a Carroll 7-0 in a key Hockne a touchdown which proved to be the difference in the game as score, which,. coupled with a League matchup. After a score--see FOOTBALL I page 12 Cavanaough defeated Holy Cross,?-0. 

OAKLAND. Calif.-Is there off with a long home run over
,. 
anything the Oakland Athletics the left-field fence to tic it. 
can't do?. One out later, Tony Phillips Power. Pitching. Speed. singled and stole second. Jim The dimension Hickey Acker replaced Stieb and Mike 
Henderson ad'ded to the A's Gallego legged out an infield was never more evident than in single. Game 1 of the best-of-7 Acker then hit I Ienderson on American League playoffs on the wrist to load the bases. Tuesday night. "It's got a little swelling, but 
Henderson broke up a it's OK," Henderson said. potential double play ball with Carney Lansford, who a hard slide into second finished second in batting in the baseman Nelson Liriano in the AL at .336, hit a hard grounder sixth inning as the A's rallied to to Tony Fernandez at short beat Toronto 7-3. that looked like a sure double 
"It was a great slide," play. The Oakland Athletics capitalized on a combination of power, speed and pitching to take Game 1 of the Henderson said. "With my Fernandez made the flip to American League Championship series. The A's rode an excellent pitching performance by Dave Stewart to speed I have to get down get the force, but Henderson a 7-3 victory in Oakland, Ca. The Blue Jays will try to even the series Wednesday afternoon in Oakland's there." Coliseum. Dave Stewart, who also see BASEBALL I page 14 
Holtz explains habit of putting opponent on pedestal 
Lou Holtz, who has gained a reputation for house what year a certain building was built and she speaking pessimistically about his own teams while had to correct him and say, 'Sorry, Coach.' " complimenting the opposition, explained his prac­Brown selected Notre Dame over Miami and the tices at a Tuesday press conference. University of Florida. 
"I try to be as honest as I can," said the Notre ••• Dame coach. "I don't try to con people. When I look Todd Lyght's first-quarter interception against at an opponent, I do not try to build them up for Purdue last weekend gave him four for the season. psychological gain, nor do I ever downplay our The last Notre Dame player with at least four inter­team. I try to look at the film of a football team and Notre Dame will need strong play from the ends at ceptions in a season was Dave Duerson, now of the see what level they are capable of playing. Then I Stanford. Although Dennis Green's team has a 1-3 Chicago Bears, who had seven in 1982. look at our football team and see how poor we are record, the Cardinal pro-style offense has averaged Lyght, a junior cornerback, started 10 games for capable of playing. over 260 passing yards per game. the Irish last season but did not have a single inter­
"I've never been involved in a game since I've been "Most of the pressure on the passer has to come ception. at Notre Dame where the other team played the best from the ends," said Holtz. "Stanford puts a lot of ••• they could and we played as poorly as we have pressure on your defensive ends." The Notre Dame-Southern California game is shown at times where we did not have severe prob­Senior tight end Rod West, who has missed the more than two weeks away, but some Trojan fans lems," Holtz continued. "If the other team plays the last three games with a knee injury, is practicing at apparently just can't wait for the two rivals to butt very best they're capable of playing and we play fullback. Anthony Johnson and Hyan Mihalko are heads. poorly and they still couldn't come close, then hey, the only healthy fullbacks now with any kind of col­A pair of morning disc jockeys from Los Angeles we're going to sit here and eat hot dogs. drink legiate experience. radio station KLOS make a habit of laying their rear Cokes, laugh and tell stories. But that's not really ••• ends on the field (or court, whatever the case may the case." •• • When Holtz introduced Derek Brown at the con­be) to bring good luck to their local NFL and NBA 
ference, he praised Brown's twin sisters Renae and teams. 
The biggest concerns Holtz has with his team Jenae. The twins seem to have had a big impact on right now are at running back and defensive end, the tight end's decision to attend Notre Dame. Reportedly, the deejays, who have the 6 a.m.-to-10 where he is concerned about a lack of depth. "Renae is very, very smart," said the sophomore a.m. Pacific Standard Time shift, are thinking of 
Holtz has said that sophomore defensive end from Merritt Island, Fla. "Jenae is too. Renae does a bringing their act to Notre Dame on Oct. 21 The re­Devon McDonald, one of the team's top pass rush­lot of reading, and she read everything that came to port says that they will try to sneak into Notre ers, is being bothered by a recurring knee problem. the house about Notre Dame, and she even knew the Dame Stadium and do their thing in hopes of helping Freshman Karl McGill is working at defensive end dates of when buildings were built, like 1830. end the six-year Irish hex on USC. this week. "She asked Coach Holtz when he came to my Stay tuned for details. 







