Associated Press  "Very clearly they believed the human sacrifices and the  At least one victim was kid­napped in Brownsville within  Contrary to officials' asser-r:-------....,----------, tions on Tuesday, Neck said  
MATAMOROS, Mexico -­Drug smugglers killed at least 12 people, including an Ameri­can college student, in satanic rites designed to bring demonic , • Murders not part of large Satanic cuiVpage 6  animal sacrifices put a magi­cal shield around them that protected them from evil or harm, even up to bullets," said Texas Attorney General Jim Mattox. Cameron County Sheriff Alex Perez said the scene was "like a human slaughterhouse." Mexican officials said five  the last month, and as many as three of the dead may be Amer­ican, officials said. Twelve bodies were dis­covered in a mass grave on Tuesday. The bodies were mut­ilated, and authorities said they found candles and kettles full of body parts and animal bones.  today there was no evidence of cannibalism. Constanzo apparently intro­duced a sort of voodoo or black magic to the area, Neck said. The ritual "has overtones of a religious cult that has been exported out of Cuba and Haiti as 'Santeria,"' Neck said, based on feathers and other L.----.....1---"""'-"......~~~  
protection to their illegal activ­ men have been arrested in the  evidence of rituals at the ranch  
ities, officials said today.  case, but U.S. officials listed  Suspects in Mexican custody  and the Matamoros home of a  spring  break,  Sheriff's  Lt.  
Police said they would con­ only four. Authorities on both  have told police of 14 human  woman sought by police.  George Gavito said.  
tinue  digging today  for  two  sides of the border are seeking  sacrifices, and evidence indi­ .The dead included 21-ye~r­ Kilroy apparently was cho­ 
more bodies believed buried at  the alleged ringleader, Adolfo  cates there may be more, said  old University of Texas student  sen  at random after the cult  
a ranch just below the Mexican  de Jesus Constanzo, a Cuban in  Or an Neck, U.S. Customs chief  Mark Kilroy, who vanished last  
border.  his late 40s.  agent in Brownsville.  month in Matamoros while on  see SATAN/ page 6  


VOL. XXII, NO. 118 THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Eastern purchase deal by Ueberroth collapses 
Associated Press airline until the sale was com­
pleted. The union proposal has 

NEW YORK --Peter V. been opposed Frank Lorenzo, Ueberroth's proposed $464 mil­chairman of Texas Air, who lion purchase of strike-bound would lose his authority over Eastern Airlines collapsed Eastern under the union plan over an impasse with its unions even if the Ueberroth deal and parent Texas Air Corp., the failed. former baseball commissioner "The major hurdle I defined announced Wednesday. as interim management and 
''We are deeply disappointed the bankruptcy process," this transaction collapsed last Ueberroth said. "We were not night and is done," Ueberroth able to bridge this hurdle al­told a news conference. "Our though both of us I think tried agreement with Texas Air is to do that." terminated, its finished, its Eastern's unions have ac­over." cused Lorenzo of gross mis­
Eastern President Phil management and of stripping Bakes said the Miami-based Eastern of vital assets since airline's strategy is to reor­Texas Air bought the airline in ganize as a smaller carrier ser­1986, and have expressed con­ving 50 percent to 60 percent of cern he would continue doing its pre-strike schedule of 1,040 so if left in charge. flights a day and employing U.S. bankruptcy Judge Bur­15,000 to 18,000 people, com­ton Lifland met Wednesday pared with 31,000 before the with attorneys for Eastern, its strike. unions and the Ueberroth 
The announcement that the group to try to save the deal Eastern has been flying only pilots participation in the Mac­have gone on strike if the Mac­Ueberroth deal had collapsed negotiated only days earlier, a fraction of its schedule since hinists strike. The ruling by hinists hadn't. came following days of intense saying it represented a historic its Machinists union began a U.S. district Judge Edward negotiations that continued opportunity to save one of the strike March 4 that has been Davis seriously hurt the com­The company said it would Wednesday as a federal bank­nation's biggest airlines. supported by its flight atten­pany's effort to get the airline ask the federal appeals court 
ruptcy judge tried to salvage dants and pilots unions. flying again. to overturn Davis, but pilotsthe sinking deal. Any deal required full agree­union attorneys said appellateA key issue blocking the deal ment from Ueberroth, In a related development Davis said in his opinion courts traditionally accept was whether an outside trustee Lorenzo, Eastern's three uni­Wednesday, a federal judge in there was no evidence the Air such findings of fact by lower 
Drug smugglers kill at least 12 in Satanic rites in Mexico 

should be appointed to run the ons and Eastern's creditors. 
•f!* 

-%t ~. 
j 
~
J. ···~. 
,t·~'\f\1~!1­
"· 
AP Photo

Buckley onboard 

U.S. writer and TV personality William Buckley, host of a British Airways round-the-world Concorde flight, aboard the plane Wednes­day, when it made an emergency landing at Sydney Airport after losing a portion of the tailplane. 
Miami upheld the Eastern's Line Pilots Association would court judges. 

'Wheel of Fortune' winners bring back loot for themselves and ND 
By MISSY WEBER Bannon plans to invest and $30,000 and play with the rest." Staff Reporter spend the rest of the money. Mohr said. Bannon said he tried out for 
Notre Dame's four victorious The Wheel of Fortune because Mohr said he tried out for The Wheel of Fortune contestants "It seemed like a neat thing to Wheel of Fortune because"! brought back winnings for both do." like to do dumb and useless the University and themselves. things, such as play games. I 
Junior Sean Bannon com­Sophomore Sharon Valus is also like to have fun." peted in the final round of the the big winner from Notre Mohr was also one of three college week competition on Dame with a cash total of people who represented Notre April 8 in Burbank which will $50,000. "I don't know what I'll Dame last year on ESPN's The be aired the week of May 15-20. do with the money yet. I'm Superbowl of Sports Trivia. He represented Notre Dame in plaiUling to take a trip to Italy Freshman Jill Jones won this round and won $13,000 for next year, and after that, I will $10,000 in cash. She plans to pay the University and two vans probably save and invest the tuition with it. Jones said she worth about $50,000 for use by rest." said Val us. tried out for the show to win the Center of Social Concerns. "I don't know why I tried out money. 
The four students each for the show. It never crossed The students left for Bur­played orie day for themselves my mind that I actually would bank, Cal. on Friday, taped the before the final round for the make the cuts." said Valus. college week shows on Satur­University. ·Sophomore Derek Mohr was day, left Burbank Monday mor­
Bannon won $40,500 in cash the only student who played on ning and arrived back at Notre for himself. He plans to spend a regular Wheel round and not Dame for dinner. the money paying off his car, on college week. He won $36,600 The winners will receive visa bill and tuition. After that. in cash. "I'll probably invest their money in 120 days. 
-~---------~-------~~---------~ 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, April 13, 1989
r 
I 
t 
WORLD BRIEFS 

I 
I Israeli army officials said Wednesday the arrest of four alleged leaders of the Palestinian uprising was a major blow to the 16-month-old revolt, but Palestinians said the captures would not end their struggle. Also Wednesday, police charged a Jewish settler leader, Rabbi Moshe Levinger, with manslaughter in the death last year of an Arab shopkeeper in the West Bank town of Hebron. In clashes in the occupied Gaza Strip, troops shot and wounded 15 Palestinians, including a 7-year-old boy, Arab hospi­tal officials said. The army confirmed five casualties. 
AsupersonicConcordejetcarryinglOOAmericansdropped a chunk of its tail over the South Pacific Wednesday during an attempt to set a speed record, but it landed safely and passengt;!rs were reported eager to try again. The 9-foot tail section of the British Airways plane ripped off about 25 minutes after the plane left Christchurch, New Zealand, for Sydney 1,000 miles away. Passengers said the plane shuddered, but the craft landed in Sydney about an hour later. No one was injured. The plane is attempting to set speed records for each of 12 parts of a three­week journey around the word. The passengers, who included commentator William F. Buckley Jr., each paid $39,000 for the trip, which began in London on April 1. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

Abbie Hoffman was found dead in his home Wednesday night, authorities said. Hoffman, 51, who founded the Yippie movement in the 1960s and became a symbol of liberal activism with his devotion to protests, was discovered at about 8:15p.m. fully dressed under the covers of his bed, Solebury Township Police Chief Richard Mangan said. Hoffman's death did not seem suspicous, Mangan said, but police are investigating. There was no apparent cause of death, he said, and an autopsy is scheduled for Thursday morning. 
Barbara Bush emerged jovially from a radioactiv treatment for a thyroid condition Wednesday, kidding around and hosting a White House reception with the Queen of Sweden. Mrs. Bush said she felt fine, and that her normal activities would not be curtailed except that she couldn't hold her grandchildren or her dog's new puppies for a few days, and "I'm not kissing anybody." 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

Organizers of Indiana University's Little 500 bicycle race are joining police in efforts to prevent the violence and arrests that marred last year's festivities. Police arrested 70 people during the three-day event last year and battled a near-riot at the Varsity Villas apartment complex. Fueled by too much alcohol, revelers threw glass bottles, overturned cars, started fires and spat and threw beer upon police officers. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 

College Mad House, a new game show, will be holding final auditions for contestants April14 at Stepan Center between 2 and 4 p.m. The show is loosely based upon the successful kids action game show Fun House. In the college version, teams compete against each other in messy stunts. One of the stunts used in the pilot was a tag team pillow fight on a horizontal pole greased down with Crisco and chocolate pudding. Applications to audition are available at the Information Desk in LaFortune. The appli­cations must be accompanied by a photograph. The deadline for applying is April 1. Since there are only 300 applications, come early and fill one out. The finalists will be the students who compete on April 14. 
WEATHER 


Sunny Smiles 
Mostly sunny and cool today. Highs around 
60. Increasing cloudiness and warmer tonight. Lows in the 40s. Warmer Friday with a 70 per­cent chance of showers. Highs in the 60s: 
ALMANAC 
On April 13: e In 1870: The Metropolitan 
Museum of Art was founded in New York City. e In 1961: The United Nations 
general assembly voted to condemn 
apartheid. e In 1970: A tank containing liquid oxygen burst aboard Apoll~ 13, then 4/5 of the way to the moon, crippling the spacecraft. Four days later the crew splashed down safely in the Pacific. 
e Ten years ago: Scientists and engineers began the final cooling process to bring the crippled Unit 2 re­actor of the Three Mile Island atomic power plant in Pennsylvania to a cold 
shutdown. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for Wed., Aprl112, 1989 


Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 
+8.07 
Closed at 2319.65 
S&P 500 i)..so to 298.99 
Currency exchange 
Mark •.0025 to 1.8828 DM I $ 
Yen +.32 to 133.03¥ I$ 
Precious Metals Gold +$2.20 to $392.10 I oz. Silver +3.2¢ to $5.8951 oz. 

! 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
f 
l '' r 


Democratic partisanship unfairly damages Bush 
Tuesday the United States Senate passed a bill authorizing an increase in the minimum wage to $4.55 within three years. President Bush had made it quite clear that he would veto such a large raise, and thus Tuesday's vote seemed to guarantee that a major face-off be­tween Bush and Congress will be forthcoming. 
The vote, largely along party lines, was led by Senate Democrats intent on confronting Bush early in his Presidency in an ill-conceived 
rattempt to determine whether his bite is as bad as his bark. 
Senate Democrats, along with their House colleagues who passed a similar bill earlier, believe they are in no-lose situation. If they can muster the votes necessary to override the in­evitable Bush veto, they will have dealt the president an extremely damaging political blow. Much more likely, Bush's veto will be sustained, and Congressional Democrats can harp to their labor special interest groups that they did all they could for the $4.55 wage. 
This has not been the only example of such obstinacy from Congress since Bush took the Oath of Office in January. The disgraceful han­dling of Senator Tower's nomination for Defense Secretary_ by our illustrious Senate is another instance in which ideology outweighed fairness. Whatever Senator Tower's alleged shortcomings, the members of the Senate com­mittee who took it upon themselves to act as judge and jury of another man's personal life went far beyond their constitutional mandate for confirmation. 
The case against Senator Tower was based largely on rumor and innuendo. For our elected officials to vote against Senator Tower on per­sonal grounds was certainly hypocritical. Can you imagine what would happen if these senators were required to be confirmed by an independent panel of judges before they them­selves could be seated in Congress? Could they all pass the same tests they have devised for presidential nominees? 
They could not, but fortunately for them, they are in the envious position of being their own judges. Witness the ongoing investigation into the doings of House Speaker Jim Wright. In 
OF INTEREST 

Fr. James McCurry speaks about "Relating to Mary in Today's Church," at 9 p.m. tonight in the Sorin Room, LaFortune. 
An African Lunch is being served today from 11:30 to 1 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The Community Service Commis­sioners and Student Group Leaders Social at the esc will be held from 7 to 8 p.m. as a pos­sible preliminary to the Donald Woods lecture at 8 p.m. tonight in the Engineering Auditorium. 
AISEC meets tonight at 6 p.m. in the Dooley Room, LaFortune. All members should attend. 
Accountants from area firms are joining Notre Dame accounting students this year in assisting low income citizens with preparation of their tax returns free of charge at neighbor­hood centers and libraries until the filing dead­line, April17. Further information is available by calling 239-5296. 
A Car Wash is being sponsored by the BSU at the First Source Bank on Lincoln Way in Osceola to support Summer Missions. Call Laurenteen at 283-4968 for more information. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
______________n____,____________ 
'Democrats in both houses of Congress 


are eager to challenge Bush from the outset...' 
Dave Bruner 
Viewpoint Editor 

comparison to the wringer through which Tower was put, the Ethics Committee's mis­handling of the Wright affair leaves much to be desired, and exposes a double standard to which some members of Congress hold them­selves. 
The larger issue underlying these incidents is simply this: for all of the rhetoric of a new era of bipartisanship, Democrats in both houses of Congress are eager to challenge Bush from the outset of his presidency. They believe (possibly rightly so) that if they can hand the new president a series of defeats on major is­sues from the outset of his term, the executive branch will for the next four years be weak and ineffectual. Democrats could then safely ad­vance their own agenda without fear of a presidential challenge. 
Bush brings to the Oval Office a pragmatism unseen in government for many years. The Bush administration seems willing and able to find practical solutions to the nation's pressing problems, and is eager to work with Congress to start making some real progress on national and international issues. 
Which is precisely what makes the recent in­transigent actions by the 101st Congress so reprehensible. One can only hope that the atti­tude shown by these Congressional Democrats will not persist for the remainder of Bush's term. 
Dave Bruner is a junior govern­mentlphilosophy!P.P.E. major and Viewpoint Editor for The Observer. 
A day of relaxation and appreciation of . nature at Potato Creek Park this Saturday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. is sponsored by the ND Envi­ronmental Action Club. Events include volley­ball, biking, and canoeing. Call James Dailey at 283-1770 for information. 
Service Guild holds its "Trinkets and Treasures" rummage sale this Saturday at Logan Center from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. to benefit mentally and physically handicapped children. 
All interested in seeing "Medjugorje: Miracles and Messages," a new film by Paddy Nolan are invited to the Hesburgh Library Auditorium tonight at 7. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events ,of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. 
Wednesday's Staff 
Design Editor......................... Karen Newlove Design Aaalatant ..•.....•........... Beth Peterson Typesetters.............. Bernard Brenninkmeyer .......................................................Andy Schlidt Nawa Editor ............................... Tim O'Keefe Copy Editor............................ Janice O'Leary Sports Copy Editor............... Molly Mahoney VI-point Copy Editor................ Kim Skiles VI-point Layout...................... Laura Manzi Accent Copy Editor .................. Matt Murphy Typist ............................................. Will Zamer .................................................... Diana Bradley NO Day Editor............... Margaret McCloskey SMC Day Editor.................. Rozel Gatmaitan Ada Designers..................... Shannon Roach . ......................................................... Chris Nel 


~----------------------~-.----------------~------~------------~------~..----------------------------------------------~-­
Thursday, April 13, 1989 

Dating situation topic of panel discussion 
By CINDY PETRITES Fears of gossip and rejection Staff Reporter were also mentioned as possi­ble reasons for the lack of Perceptions of dating in the dating at Notre Dame and Saint Notre Dame and St. Mary's Mary's. "There's nothing community was the topic of a worse than when someone you student panel discussion, "The don't know very well who you Dating Game." would like to know better says 
The six-member panel, 'Ciao, baby'," said panel mem­moderated by Daniel Lapsley, ber Pat Creadon. assistant professor of psychol­Other panel members com­ogy at Notre Dame, focused on mented on how Notre Dame's SYRs, stereotypes, sex, and small population blows the im­date rape, and attempted to portance of dating out of "come to grips with what is proportion and encourages gos­problematic in the dating sit­sip. "If someone sees you uation here at Notre Dame." eating dinner with someone of 
"Are the problems a function the opposite sex at the dining of Notre Dame's size? Its tradi­hall, it's a big deal." com­tions?" Lapsley asked the mented one audience member. panel, introducing a discussion Most agreed that the exagger­of Notre Dame's main dating ated awareness of couples was institution: the SYR. Most almost a "stigma" and dis­members of the panel and au­couraged campus dating. dience felt that while SYRs Stereotypes and views of sex present an opportunity to date were also examined for their and meet people, ''they are possible contribution to the really awkward if you don't dating problem. The panel know the person well." Other agreed that stereotypes are members of the audience com­used as an excuse for not mented on the "total lack of making the effort to meet spontaneity" in SYRs. "The people and the fact that "sex SYR is an event so scripted and is looked at with such horror" structured that it encourages makes for a huge lack of com­more superficial interaction," munication. said Lapsley, summarizing the The evening ended with a dis­panel's views. cussion on date rape: what it 
is, and the importance of recog­

other audience members nizing that it affects even Notre commented that SYRs had Dame and Saint Mary's stu­changed a lot since the change dents. "Date rape happens in the alcohol policy and here," acknowledged the panel "presented really stressful sit­members. They said, however, uations" because "there is a lot that because many victims suf­of pressure to find a good­fer from fear and guilt, many looking date." don't report the crimes. 
April Perm Special 
Receive your choice free with a full perm­
3/4" barrel curling iron or a difuser. 
University Hair Stylists 
·~·~
dli':. • ~ 1~-»~ -.t¥-5~. 00 !"~ti"1r. 0 
..;:»:5:.~~-. 0 ""'«.~~;r.·-:r..., 
9-9 M-F.....:. 1/.',..;~ . . , ,-··'~•­
' '"' •..j<:•'h • t ):A;"\k
!'·~.i.a.'Jo·~w .,>~;-..,.~'\~;,.~ 
9-4 Sat.~··:'.._'f{J-~: ·f.·..ri.>....,_,tx~~ 
-~~tl.~··J• r N:-..•~ ""~'fl\ 
·{\~~"'''.' -I·~~a
Make your appointment now for Sr. Formal & Graduation 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
The Power and the Glory 

by Dennis Cannan and Pierre Bost Adapted from the novel by Graham Greene 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Setting and Lighting designed by Willard Neuert Costumes designed by Richard E. Donnelly 
Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April19-8:10pm Thursday, April20-8:10pm Friday, April21 -8:10pm Saturday, April 22-8:10pm Sunday, April 23-3:10pm 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 *Students/Senior Citizens $4 
'(Wed., Thurs., Sun. only) 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office Weekdays, 12:15pm to 6pm 

MasterCard !Visa orders call 239-5957 
The Observer 

(.,~,.)~IJ!JA!l' JO 
&.~\bft-.11\ Ojb..\L ~Wlll ~~:~~i 1 
Photo 

Protesters outside Tbilisi's government house on Saturday demanded independence from the Soviet Union. 





Communist party chief in Georgia offers resignation 
Gorbachev calls for calm as unrest continues 
Associated Press funerals were readied for the watchdog organization Hel­
people who were killed during sinki Watch, called Gorbac­
MOSCOW --President Mik­the suppression of protests call­hev's appeal "very dry," and hail S. Gorbachev appealed ing for independence. expressed doubts it would be Wednesday for calm in Soviet Gennady Gerasimov, the enough to ease tensions. Georgia but rejected the Foreign Ministry spokesman, "All kinds of words, if not demands of local nationalists said party leader Dzhumber backed up by acts, are just and blamed them for igniting Patiashvili "asked to be empty demagoguery," lethal strife he said had relieved of his duties'' at a lead­Zhankarashvili said in a tele­damaged his drive for reform. ership meeting Tuesday night phone interview. 
Meanwhile, the Communist and that the party will now Foreign Minister Eduard A. Party chief of Soviet Georgia decide his fate. Shevardnadze, an ethnic Geor­offered to resign after the Gerasimov said Patiashvili gian, remained in his home republic's leaders met to dis­acted after widespread republic to help quell the un­cuss a clash between troops criticism of Georgian leaders, rest. He met with people on the and nationalist protesters that but the spokesman did not street and had a "heated but at left 19 people dead, a Foreign specify what prompted the the same time substantive Ministry spokesman said complaints. dialogue," Gerasimov said. today. Officials have said 18 The official Communist 
"The interests of the working civilians died in the violence Party newspaper Pravda said people have nothing in common Sunday, but Gerasimov today today that the mood remained with attempts to sever the said another girl had died Tues­"extremely tense" in Tbilisi, existing ties of friendship and day, bringing the death toll to the Georgian capital, and cooperation among our 19. Their funerals will be held several other cities in the peoples, (to) dismantle the Thursday, Friday and Satur­republic. socialist system in the republic day, he said. and push it into the slough of Pravda put the number of A church employee in Tbilisi, ethnic enmity," Gorbachev police and troops injured in a who demanded anonymity, said. clash Sunday between Soviet said in a telephone interview 
They were the Soviet leader's troops and pro-independence that the situation in the capital first direct public remarks on demonstrators at 91. Previ­is "more or less quiet now" and the unrest since at least 19 ously, officials had said 75 sol­that authorities had promised people were killed Sunday in a diers and police were hurt. to lift an overnight curfew. Aut­clash between pro­No reason was given for the horities continued to enforce a independence activists and se­change. ban on public gatherings. curity forces. Zurav Zhankarashvili, a The central square where the 
Scattered strikes continued Tbilisi resident and member of clash took place was covered in the southern republic and the Georgian human rights today in flowers, placed as 

Grad Students, Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

• 
Pool, Clubhouse • locked intercom entrances 

• 
Washer & dryer i;; each apartment • flexible leases 


( also -furnished executive suites ) call for details-277-3731 

EQUAL HOUSING 
!WOOTUNm 

memorial tributes to the dead, said Zhorab Lomidze, an editor at the Georgian news agency Gruzinform. 
President Mikhail Gorbac­hev was quoted Tuesday as saying he will oppose "extremism, anti-Soviet dis­plays and the destructive ac­tions of adventurist elements." 
About 200 people were ar­rested for violating the curfew, and police were confiscating 66,000 registered hunting rifles from the public, Gerasimov told reporters Tuesday. He did not give a reason. 
Demonstrations in the south­ern republic began April 4. 
Protesters had attacked calls from some members of the republic's ethnic Abkhazians minority to secede because of alleged discrimination by Georgians. 

~-----------~---~ ---­
page 4 The Observer Thursday, April 13, 1989 
Falling from the sky 
AP Photo A helicopter crashes along the Lake Michigan shoreline in the Mil­waukee neighborhood of Bay View on Tuesday after the pilot tried to remove an air conditioner from the top of a condominium tower. The pilot was taken to the hospital for treatment of a possible broken leg and facial injuries. 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
ELIZABETH C. HOWL

JORDAN 
New & Used Cars & Trucks 

FORD 
Ext. 667 

IoYOlA VOLVO
~0~\) 




~'C.~cD~'( 


~a 1\f\Df\\'C.  • __ .......,  71·"":f:..:C....  
Q pt"V  o Bo• 370  Elkhan Area Cal (219) 674-9926  
?~oG.~f\~  -·-·  ···-,~·--..·­ 



$400 REBATE* 
Largest Ford Inventory #1 Selling Ford Dealer in Country For further information, call Elizabeth 
* This is in addition to any present program 

Attention Engineers Engineer's Week Events 
Thursday 

3 pm Calculator Toss * 4 pm Pie Eating Contest Engineering Honor Ceremony Alumni Sr. Club night 
Friday AM 


11:30-2 pm Picnic & Volleyball* 
* Cushing Quad 
STUDENTSIll HERE'S THE BEST CUT YOU'LL MAKE ALLYEAR. 
FLY THE MIDWAY CONNECTION~ SAVE 10% 
The Midway Connection® takes you to Chicago Midway 
Airport-lliehassl::.:. ~ \ inairport. ~ ~ 
_,_ 
<0 1999 Midway Airlines. Inc. 
i ' / 
•• \1 

~,-j1 . ' 
.·· "-tA:$.s.JJ:s ·~·~' 
•



Fierce fighting flares up 1n Beirut residential areas 
Associated Press 

BEIRUT --Moslem and Chr­istian forces turned their howit­zers on residential areas of Beirut on Wednesday, killing 12 people in a withering attack on the eve of the civil war's 14th anniversary. 
The leader of the Christian army said the fighting had reduced Lebanon to "a cadaver in a coffin" and urged the su­perpowers to help end the fight­ing. 
The shelling duel was the fiercest since the Arab League called a cease-fire in Lebanon a week ago. It began a few minutes after a group of right­wing Christian politicians left Beirut for more peace talks in Kuwait. 
The barrage, which shat­tered an overnight lull, took civilians by surprise and forced them to rush back to bunkers and underground bomb shel­ters. 
Shopkeepers lowered their shutters, employees ran out of their offices and pedestrians ran in all directions seeking shelter. 
The whooshing sound of out­going rockets and the thuds of shell explosions rocked Beirut's Moslem and Christian sectors. 
Black smoke billowed from west Beirut's Corniche Mazraa commercial thoroughfare and the low-income Cola district. Fire engines raced to battle the blaze, police said. 
Motorists sped away after a shell slammed into the seaside boulevard near fish restau­rants in Moslem west Beirut's Raouche district. 
French Ambassador Paul Blanc told reporters a shell scored a direct hit on the French Embassy compound in the Christian suburb of Haz­miyeh. "It inflicted damage, but no casualties," Blanc said. 
A lebanese Christian secur­ity guard at the U.S. embassy was found shot to death near the embassy compound in a suburb north of Beirut Thursday, police reported. Elias Haddad, 24, was shot in the head, and his body was dumped in a building entrance about a mile from the com­pound in Aukar, they said. 
................................................................ 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday 
Today is Laura S."s birthday. Call her up 


and wish her a happy one. By the way 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura, we do expect to see you dancing


11 II LaFortune.
on pool tables tonight. 

.....---------~---·~-----~~---------------------~-------------------­

AP Photo

What's wrong with this picture? 
An embarrassing goof by the Ohio Department of Transportation's sign shop in Columbus, Ohio, produced this welcome message. The sign was installed Tuesday and removed quickly on Wednesday. 
Almost 1 million semi-automatic weapons could enter U.S. if Bush ends suspension 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON --Close to 1 million new semiautomatic assault-style rifles could flood the United States if the Bush administration decides to end its suspension of such imports. 
Gun importers have applica­tions to bring in 965,000 of the weapons pending at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, according to spokes­man Dick Pedersen. 
The import suspension was imposed March 14 after public and police outcries over the in­creased use of the weapons such as semiautomatic ver­sions of AK-47s and Uzi car­bines in drug-related violence, and the January slayings of five schoolchildren in Stockton, Calif.. 
The suspension covered some 400,000 weapons includ­ing about 300,000 for which im­port permits already had been approved. Last week, the ad­ministration expanded the suspension to cover 240,000 sep­arate weapons. 
"We noticed the increase in these showing up in crimes, an increase in demand, and we reacted to it," Pedersen said. "The main thing is that we might be nipping the semi­automatic assault-type rifle in the bud rather than have mil­lions of them flooding in here." 
Nevertheless, gun importers are continuing to submit appli­cations, he said Tuesday. 
"It appears there have been a lot more applications that came in after the ban,'' Peder­sen said. 
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms is re­quired by law to permit im­ports only of weapons suitable or adaptable to "sporting pur­poses," and it is studying the use of the semiautomatic rifles to determine how they are being used. The review should take two to three months more months. 
Despite the uproar over such weapons, FBI crime statistics reveal that most murders by firearms are still committed by people wielding handguns. Of the 17,859 murders committed nationwide in 1987, 10,556 were committed with firearms of which 7,807 were handguns, ac­cording to the FBI. 

Drug Enforcement Adminis­tration spokesman Con Doug­herty says that increasing numbers of powerful and sophisticated handguns such as the 9mm semiautomatic, par­ticularly guns such as the Uzi pistol, are being confiscated during arrests. 
Nevertheless, Pedersen said it is extremely unlikely that the current import suspension on rifles will be expanded to any handguns. 
"Handguns are used in sport, in target shooting, extensive­ly," Pedersen said. "That's negligible as far as assault weapons are concerned." 
Many local and federal police agencies have recently begun to arm themselves with foreign-made 9mm semi­automatic handguns, he said. 
page 5 




Senate passes $4.55 min. wage 
Bill likely to be vetoed by Bush 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON --The Senate voted 62-37 Wednesday in favor of raising the hourly minimum wage to $4.55 by October 1991, bringing the Democratic­controlled Congress closer to its first domestic policy show­down with President Bush. 
That confrontation, however, won't come immediately. 
A conference committee will be needed to resolve differ­ences between the Senate mea­sure and a House-passed bill which also sets a 1991 target of $4.55 for the minimum wage -­30 cents an hour higher than Bush has said he would sup­port. 
"I say simple decency, simple fairness ought to be our concern," Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell said in urging Bush to reconsider his repeated veto threats. "We're now arguing over 30 cents an hour for the poorest Americans who have not had an increase now in over eight years." 
The conference committee is unlikely to change major provi­sions of the bill before it is returned to both chambers, where the Democratic majorities have the votes to se­cure final passage. 
But Bush would only need the support of one-third of the members in either chamber to sustain a veto. In the Senate, that would be 34 votes. 
Ten Republicans joined 52 Democrats in supporting the Senate bill, while two Democrats and 35 Republicans voted against it. The only senator not voting was Sen. Al­bert Gore Jr., D-Tenn., whose son was seriously injured when struck by a car a week ago. 
The Senate vote came after a day of often cantankerous debate on nearly a dozen amendments, most of which had little or nothing to do with the minimum wage, and a day after Bush's proposal for a more modest increase was rejected. 
Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole made a last-ditch ef­fort to resurrect the Bush pro­posal. 
"The president will sign this proposal; he'll veto the other one," Dole said. 
But that attempt failed on a 56-43 vote and Senate then ap­proved the legislation spon­sored by Sen. Edward M. Ken­nedy, D-Mass. 
Drastic measures possible in Chicago ozone plan 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO --Efforts by U.S. environmental officials to reduce ozone pollution levels in the Chicago area could result in such drastic measures as auto use limitations or even gasoline rationing. 
"We haven't ruled any of those options off the plate, even some of those tough choices," David Kee, chief of the air and radiation division of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Midwest region, said during an interview Tuesday. 
Other possible ozone-fighting measures could include ex­panded auto-emissions testing, changes in types of gasolines sold, industry restrictions and incentives for mass transpor­tation use. 
"Residents of the Chicago area could be in for some very drastic lifestyle changes,'' said Will Flower, spokesman for the Illinois EPA. 
The EPA's Chicago anti­pollution plan, which would also cover northwestern In­diana, is expected to serve as the national model for other areas, including southern Cal­ifornia, although it's not ex­pected to be as severe as Los Angeles' because of that area's more serious smog problem, Kee said. 
Last summer, Chicago had 19 days of high ozone levels, the most in 11 years. 

r---------------------------.-------------~~------------------------------------.-----~-------------------------­
Thursday, April 13, 1989
page 6 The Observer 
The Mexican attorney gen­eral's office described Con­
Satan Slayings not part of widespread
stanzo as a "godfather" to members of the
continued from page 1 

voodoo-practicing sect, and members "were told to pick said he is believed to have fled 
Satanic church, says expert
one Anglo male that particular into the United States. Mattox 
night," Gavito said. said investigators believe the Associated Press gain demonic protection from ety and be accepted in a small The cult had been involved in cult had 10 members. police. peer group. 
human sacrifices for about nine months, the lieutenant said, and prayed to the devil "so the police would not arrest them, so bullets would not kill them and so they could make more money." 
Authorities would not iden­tify the other victims, but said all were males. 
Some victims were shot in the head, and others appeared to have been slain with mac­hetes or sledgehammers, Neck said. 
Perez said that the cult mem­bers removed some of the vic­tims' vertebrae to use them for necklaces, and that inves­tigators had also found bowls and a caldron from which brains, hearts and other organs of victims were eaten. 
Felipe Flores, spokesman for the Mexican attorney general's office, said he knew nothing about reports of cannibalism. 
But he added that during the ritual killings victims' brains were cut out and put on a fire, mixed with blood, herbs, rooster's feet, goat's heads and turtles. 
Impress 


The bodies were found Tues­MUNCIE, Ind. --Groups that Corbett, who researches the "The really scary part is that day morning in a field about 20 commit criminal acts such as philosophic basis of religions, people believe worshipping the miles west of Matamoros. the recent slayings and mass said what is often labeled as a devil gives them a license to 
"I've been an investigator 15 burial of 12 people in near satanic cult is a group of commit these acts," she said. years and it's one of the worst Matamoros, Mexico, are not troubled or mentally ill things I've ever seen," Gavitos part of a wide-based satanic re­teenagers who have no connec­Corbett stressed that even 
said. ligion, a Ball State University tion to the Church of Satan, though the groups committing 
Anthony Padilla, a photog­expert said Wednesday. which was founded in 1966. these crimes are not directly rapher with The Brownsville "Human and animal connected to the Church of Herald, said he saw Kilroy's sacrifices are not practiced by Corbett sai<t the devil image Satan, they are still dangerous. body at a Matamoros funeral the Church of Satan," said Julia in Christianity, Judaism and Is­"The persons in these groups home. "There was nothing in­Corbett, a philosophy professor lam is not only an image of evil, do not have a coherent philos­side the skull," Padilla said. at Ball State University. but also the ultimate image of ophy of devil worship," she 
His father, James Kilroy, Members of what has been rebellion. She said youth said. "But there are mentally said, "We feel like Mark was called "a voodoo cult of drug "teetering on the edge" some­ill people out there convinced killed 12 hours after he was smugglers," arrested in . at times find that calling them­that the devil speaks to tbem. captured," Kilroy said. "He least 12 ritual slayings, said selves Satan worshipers is an And those people are a danger­had 12 hours to pray. they sacrificed their victims to easy way to rebel against soci-ous force to be reckoned with." 
"Mark's with God --no prob­lem. We can accept that. If he 
Michigan House names official state soil
had died of a drug overdose or in a robbery, we couldn't have Associated Press sandy soil, one of about 450 soil higan, with only a small accepted that." 
types, is located across both amount found in northern Wis­In Santa Fe, Texas, the Kil­Michigan would have an offi­peninsulas and covers 500,000 consin. 
roys' hometown, a yellow rib­cial state soil to nourish its of­acres of the state's 35 million Some lawmakers expressedbon ceremony had been sched­ficial state tree and state acres. concerns about approvinguled for today to draw attention 
flower under legislation passed The soil type is named for legislation that voters could to Kilroy's disappearance. Wednesday by the state Senate. Kalkaska County, where it first regard as trivial. But at least After Tuesday's discovery, the The bill, approved 25-8 and was found by state soil re­none proposed an official state 
ceremony was designated a sent to the House, would honor searchers in 1927. The soil is manure to fertilize the state 
memorial service. 

the Kalkaska soil series. The practically exclusive to Mic-soil. 

ANDERSEN 
/


CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO. 

Interviewing Skills Workshop 
Andersen Consulting will conduct Interviewing Skills Workshops june 12-16, August 30-31, September 1 & September 6-8 at our Center for Professional Education in St. Charles, Illinois. 
The purpose of this workshop is two-fold. First, it will assist our recruiters in developing the art of conducting an analytical type ofemployment interview designed to evaluate interviewees. Second, this program can offer valuable experience to students prior to the campus interviewing process this fall. 
As part of the seminar, each recruiter will conduct a 30-minute practice interview with each of two different students. Each interview will be video-taped for the purpose ofcritiquing the interviewer. Each student will be invited to view their tape and be critiqued. In addition to the practice interviews, we will also conduct an interviewing class which will cover aspects of the interviewing process from resume writing to evaluating job offers. 
Ideal candidates for these interviews are engineering, computer science, business and MBA students entering their last year of school next fall. 
The workshop will take place each business day listed above from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. Participants should plan on arriving at St. Charles between 6:00p.m. and 8:00p.m. the evening prior to the workshop. We will provide you with overnight accommodations and meals at our Center in St. Charles. Participants will also be paid $25 for services as a practice interviewee. 
Ifyou are interested in participating, please forward a cover letter, resume and the date you are interested in attending by May 1, 1989 to: 
Julie Arndorfer 
Andersen Consulting 

Interviewing Skills Workshop 
33 West Monroe Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60603 
Selected candidates will receive a letter with further details. 
f' f' • f ' • 0 • I , • F -, 00 0 " • •,. f I
~ ... . ... ... . ' ~ 




The coffin with the body of Khalid Shawish is carried by youths through one of the alleyways of the Old of Jerusalem. Shawish was shot dead by an unknown gunman Monday. 
Key School provides innovative education 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS --Seven­year-old Chauncey Duff doesn't seem like the same shy little boy who entered the Key School Option Program one year ago, his mother said. 
"He wants to be a part of what's going on there now. I can't believe it's the same child," Myra Duff said of her son, a second-grader. 
Like other elementary school children, the 150 students at the Key School on the city's near eastside are taught the three R's. 
In addition, the kindergarten through sixth-grade students participate almost daily in physical education, Spanish, visual arts and vocal and instrumental music courses. 
The elementary magnet --the only one of its kind in the nation--was created by Prin­cipal Patricia J. Bolanos and seven other teachers who wanted to spark the intrinsic motivation in all students to learn. 
Student Union Board Presents 
A NIGHT OF THE BlUES featuring 

"People have called from across the nation and Canada asking for information about the Key School," Mrs. Bolanos said. Many teachers and par­ents want to begin such a school in their area, she said. 
The teachers used Howard Gardner's theory of multiple intelligences as the basis for their proposal to Indianapolis Public Schools. 
Gardner, a cognitive psy­chologist at Harvard Univer­sity, argues in his book "Frames of Mind" that people have at least seven kinds of in­tellectual ability. 
These include the linguistic and logical-mathematical faculties usually developed in school. 
He adds musical intelli­gence; spatial intelligence; in­terpersonal intelligence; in­trapersonal intelligence, or understanding one's own feelings; and bodily­kinesthetic intelligence, which is the ability to control the body. 

Under a grant from the Lilly Endowment, the group developed a program in which each of the intelligences would receive equal emphasis, allow­ing each child to discover and develop his strengths. 
They won a three-year finan­cial commitment from IPS sup­erintendent James A. Adams and the Key School was on its way. 
Students at the 2-year-old Key School were randomly se­lected through a computer lot­tery that followed desegrega­tion guidelines. 
"We have a wide range, with slow learners, but yes, we do have some gifted students," Mrs. Bolanos said. 
Multi-aged "pod" groups -­which students and parents select--emphasize work in one of the cognitive areas. Exam­ples include the architecture pod, actors unlimited, the video pod and the entrepreneurship pod. 
. page 7 


Rostropovich to return to USSR for concerts 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON --Soviet-born conductor Mstislav Rostropovich, tearfully hailing a new era of artistic freedom in his homeland, announced Wednesday he will return to the Soviet Union for a concert tour with the National Symphony Orchestra next February. 
It will be his first visit to the Soviet Union --except for a brief, unnoticed stopover in the Moscow airport a few years ago--since he fled into exile with his wife, soprano Galina Vishnevskaya, in 1974. They were stripped of their Soviet citizenship four years later. 
Rostropovich, 62, a world­renowned cellist who has been music director of the National Symphony since 1977, told reporters at the Kennedy Cen­ter he was "very excited and very nervous" about visiting the homeland where he for­merly was reviled and harassed by Soviet authorities. 
He and Soviet ambassador Yuri Dubinin, tears streaming down their faces, embraced after the news conference. Dubinin hinted broadly that if Rostropovich gave a signal, the Kremlin would be willing to in­itiate the process of restoring his Soviet citizenship. 
But Rostropovich carefully avoided giving any indication of his future intentions, choos­ing instead to lavish praise on Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's reform policies. 
"The Soviet people have so much more freedom, so much more glasnost, than before Mr. Gorbachev ," he said. "For ar­tistic freedom, there has been enormous change." 
Rostropovich acknowledged that he had once vowed never to return to his homeland until there were major changes in the Soviet system. But he said Wednesday that Gorbachev's far-reaching reforms "give me the moral right to go there." 
Mter the National Symphony completes a two-week tour of Japan in late January and early February, Rostropovich and the 103-member orchestra will fly to the Soviet Union for two concerts in Moscow and two in Leningrad in about a week. 
Although the concert pro­grams for the Soviet tour were undecided, Rostropovich said his first choices were Antonin Dvorak's double concerto for cello and orchestra, with him­self at the cello, and Dmitri Shostakovich's Fifth Sym­phony, a powerful musical denunciation of the political and human rights abuses of the Stalin era. 
It was unclear Wednesday whether Rostropovich's wife would join the Soviet tour. 

Dubinin said the tour will be "a very, very important page for his biography, for develop­ment of cultural exchanges ... and for deep changes in our so­ciety and our relations with the United States." 

Source: Impact newsletter APfT. Dean Caple 





j******&~*&~i~;;·····l 
~ -STUDENT NIGHT-~ ~ -EVERY THURSDAY-~ : -NO COVER CHARGE-: ~ -DJ Plays your Requests-~ • -Dance Floor-• ~ -Specials-~ ~ Downtown South Bend -across from Marriott ~ ~ Must be 21 to enter-ID's required ~ ************************************• 

The Observer Thursday, April 13, 1989
page 8 



ODAYS FOR 


0 GREA7 DEALS! 
Think 
Sunday Thick Double Thursday Feature $5.00 . $4.49 
Get one 12" Get Two 10"
Pan Pizza loaded with extra cheese, Cheese Pizzas pepperoni, and thick crust For only For only $5.00 $4.49 
Valid only on Thursday Valid only on Sunday No coupon Necessary! No coupon Necessary! 



Call Us Now! 277-2151 
® 1835 South Bend Ave. 
® 

1989 Domino's

Limited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00 Pizza, Inc. 
-~­
~-=-••-w----.------­



Viewpoint
Thursday, April 13, 1989 page 9 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219}239-5303 

1989-90 General Board 
Editor-ln..Chief Chris Donnelly Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector................... Angela Bellanca Controller ............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged 

LETTERS 

Christmas In April Residents appreciate student help 
Dear Editor: to talk or play with the children 
As a resident of the Northeast in the areas they were working­Neighborhood, I would like to a piggyback ride here, a quick thank all the Notre Dame stu­game of basketball there, even dents who worked so hard for a little amateur skateboarding. us this past weekend. I work in The students, instead of being one of the dorms on campus, just an army of workers, were and I know how precious the more like family and friends. weekends are for sleeping in Notre Dame should be proud after a week of getting up early of its students for the effort for classes. But last Saturday, they gave last weekend. Father hundreds of Notre Dame stu­Malloy, your community has dents volunteered for the often stated its commitment to 
Christmas in April project, and helping others, and in projects we saw them working on like Christmas in April, that houses at seven in the morning. commitment comes through Neither the cold weather nor for people who really need the the long hours showed ·any help. There is a lot of grum­signs of lessening their spirits, bling in the Northeast Neigh­and we are very thankful. borhood about ill-mannered 
Although my house was not and inconsiderate students, one of those targeted by the and maybe after a night at the project for aid, I saw students bars, there is some truth to that working up and down my street grumbling. But I hope all the, from the early hours of the complainers were there to see morning until late afternoon. the work-the hard work and They re-roofed houses, pumped the good work-that these same water out of basements, "inconsiderate" students did repainted interiors, cleared for the neighborhood this past brush and debris, and gener­weekend. My thanks to every­ally worked their tails off. The one who was involved. students were cheerful and Mana Holdeman smiling the whole time, even Building Services though the work was difficult. Lyons Hall Many students even made time April17, 1989 
True demonstration of NO spirit 
Dear Editor: sonal gift to those in great need. 
On April 8, over 2,000 volun­There is no doubt in my mind teers participated in the that your efforts prevented the Christmas in April project. number of homeless in South Most of those who gave of their Bend from rising. time were Notre Dame-Saint The "Notre Dame spirit" is Mary's students. exhibited in many areas of Uni­
The basic purpose of the proj­versity life. However, when a ect was to clean and renovate Notre Dame education turns to the homes of those residents service, the spirit of the place who could not accomplish these is displayed at its best. The best tasks on their own. However, of the spirit was very obvious Christmas in April also pro­on Saturday, April 8. I am con­vided an opportunity for mem­fident that this project will be­bers of the Notre Dame com­come one of our proudest tradi­munity to work in collaboration tions. with our South Bend neighbors To all who participated, I ex­to assist those who are very tend my profound gratituae for much in need. your excellent expression of 
Having had the opportunity service. to visit most of the sites, I should like to congratulate the Father David Tyson many students who gave oi. Christmas in Apnl their time and talents to mah.t! L:o-c: . ..~otrman Christmas in April a great suc­Vt<.:e Presutent Jot cess. Each of you should take Student AfJatrs satisfaction from your per-Apru 11, 1989 
Concern for Lebanese human rights violations 
Dear Editdr: floating hospital, but the crisis situation. In a more gen­
For the past month, the Syrians have vowed to shell the eral sense, the attempt to an­Syrian army has mercilessly boats if they attempt to unload. nihilate a nation's Christian shelled the Christian commu­As of yet, there has been no of­population should not go nity in Lebanon. According to fer of aid from the U.S. The unnoticed, especially not by a the latest AP reports, 6,000 American media has been Catholic community which has shells daily strike an area the equally unresponsive, making been so vocal on the subject of size of Manhattan, sparing no scant mention of the current human rights issues in other civilian targets or crisis. countries. humanitarian institutions. The community, now without fuel, I am writing to you because, The Christian population in has retreated to dark bomb as a member of the Lebanese­Lebanon is facing extermina­shelters and prays for safety. American community at Notre tion without the United States This region has withstood 15 Dame, I would like you to taking any measures to years of war, but the current report on this situation more of­prevent it. At least, do not let attack amounts to no less than ten and fully. On a personal these people die unnoticed. genocide. The French are at­level, many students and fac­tempting to send two relief ulty are concerned about fam­Liz Reeves boats, one carrying fuel and ily and friends in Lebanon and Siegfried Hall medication and the other a are anxiously following the . April12, 1989 

NO seniors deserve their day in the sun 
Dear Editor: 
ceremony was that if it rained, 
I was sitting around at lunch those individuals receiving a week or so ago talking with honorary degrees from the Uni­some buddies of mine who, like versity, as well as the principle myself, will be graduating in speaker, might not be able to May. We got to talking about or want to wait around those why, given we have undoubt­extra 2-3 hours while the cere­edly one of the most beautiful mony was moved indoors. I college campuses in the entire would hope, however, that country, graduation is indoors, these individuals could make in the Joyce ACC. Tradition the sacrifice for the graduates alone isn't a good enough rea­celebrating the successful son because if a tradition stinks completion of years of demand­it should end. We thought that ing work. either the football stadium or the South Quad would be a far I hope other seniors feel as more enjoyable setting on a strongly about this as I do. nice spring day than the JACC. Graduation is still a month and Also, and perhaps more impor­a half away, and unless they've tantly, all friends and relatives started putting up the podium wanting to attend graduation in the JACC, I don't think it's could do so, unlike the way it too late to change. Perhaps the stands now. University officials could con­
sider an outdoor graduation 

I told my friends that, a while that afternoon (say 4 p.m.) in­regardless of weather, and back, I had looked into the pos­doors, with only those having have an awning over the stage sibility of an outdoor gradua­been given tickets able to at­in case of rain. tion (as did, incidentally, a fel­tend. (Graduating students low senior who, last year, got would each have given the 4 Seniors, remember this is a petition going around to have tickets to whomever he or she our commencement ceremony, graduation outdoors). I went chose to attend in case of rain.) not the Administration's. We directly to the Commencement Of course, prior set-up would should be able to graduate the Chairperson and asked her be necessary at the JACC in way we want. I urge those point-blank what would be case of rain, and could be com­seniors interested to write a wrong with an outdoor gradua­pleted that day. brief note to the Commence­tion. She said the number one ment Chairperson, 202 Admin­problem (obviously) would be The Commencement Chair­istration Building. If enough the threat of rain. person then responded that support is shown, perhaps 
those who had traveled great University officials will actu­

While it might be highly un­distances to see graduation yet ally break with this senseless usual for the administration to who would not be among the 4 tradition of having graduation take a risk, I proposed what my given tickets would be unable indoors at this beautiful univer­high school sensibly does every to see the ceremony--just as sity. year for graduation: plan a 1 they are unable to do now. 
p.m. outdoor ceremony, and in Paul Sughrue case of heavy rain, have an al­The third and final reason Carroll Hall ternative arrangement later she offered against an outdoor April 6, 1989 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 13, 1989
pag_e 10 


Honors Program denies equal opportunity 
It is an odd thing to find Notre 
Dame possessing an Honors 
Program. Normally, one would 
find an honors program at a 
very large state university 
where the quality of students 
varies considerably. Typically, 
honors programs serve as 
"selling-points" whereby a 
mediocre state school can lure 
bright students to campus. As 
a top-notch high school senior, 
one might be much attracted 
to an honors program because 
it would mean not having to 
face the large lecture classes 
typically associated with an 
enormous state university. 

At Notre Dame, these reasons serve as inadequate justification for an honors pro­gram. Notre Dame does not have a yariable pool of stu­dents. By and large everyone has a considerable degree of academic talent. Bright stu­dents do not have to be enticed to campus with the perk of spe­cial treatment. Beyond that, students are told of their ad­mission into the program only after having matriculated to Notre Dame. Whatever use an Honors Program would have as a recruitment tool is effectively nullified by this method of se­lection. 
Even if Notre Dame wanted to attract the absolute best, the regular program seems to be of sufficient rigor and quality. Further, freshman year class sizes, although varying greatly by department, are kept rea­sonably small. In any case, 
class size beyond the freshman 
year is not much of a problem 
at Notre Dame. 

Why then does Notre Dame 
have an Honors Program? This 
is rather straightforward ques­
tion that no one seems to ask 
around campus. Does an 
honors program contribute sig­
nificantly to the intellectual life 
of the University as a whole? 

Does it render any benefits 
to those students who are not 
members of the Program? If it 
does contribute so much to the 
University, why is the program 
only in the Colleges of Science 
and Arts and Letters? Why 
isn't there a program in busi­
ness and engineering as well? 
Again, these questions never seem to be asked. Perhaps one of the reasons these questions are not asked is because the Honors Program is run almost covertly. One would have to look very hard in the Academic Course Booklet to find any class marked "Honors Pro­gram Students Only." There does not seem to be much publicity when the Honors Pro­gram students are named. Fur­thermore, no one quite seems to know just how this small group of students is selected. The 40 or so students in each class are obviously bright, maybe even the most intelli­gent 40 students in each class. But there seems to be a veil of ignorance on the admissions criteria and the selection process. 
Although the University has had the Program for six years 
Rob Henning 
Ruby Tuesday 
now, there does not seem to be any publicity about it at all. It is almost as if the Honors Pro­gram has taken on Masonic secrecy, complete with private, closed-door meetings and secretive handshakes. Why is the Honors Program run so secretively? Is there something to hide? 
The University might be keeping the program under wraps because no one would like to be accused of fostering an elitist program. Notre Dame is well known for going out of its way in other areas to promote egalitarianism among the student body: Notre Dame contends it does not have spe­cial "jock" classes. Yet, having special "nerd" classes seems just as elitist. The Honors Program has an isolat­ing quality that smacks of in­tellectual snobbery. 
A major booster of the Honors Program on campus is Professor David Soloman. Mr. Soloman served as director of the Program for its earliest years (a space currently taken by Professor William Krier). Apparently, Professor Soloman fought very hard for the creation of the program. 
In discussing the program with an alumna who had the pleasure of taking a course from Professor Soloman when he directed the London Pro­gram, she claims Soloman ac­tively discriminated in his grading practices due to mem­bership in the program. One would hate to accuse Professor Soloman of ethical lapses in his grading policies and I am no doubt sure he has a very good explanation for this occur­rence, if it indeed happened. 

But one is tempted to wonder whether preferential grading of Honors Program students is not a common practice throughout the University. Knowing a student to be marked in the top five percent of his class as an Honors Pro­gram member could certainly lead to some grade inflation. 
There is a need for greater intellectual stimulation on campus. This is a project I heartily endorse. But it would seem Notre Dame needs sus­tained efforts to improve the general intellectual quality of all classes for all students. This is a project which should go beyond a small group of stu­dents in the Arts and Letters and Science Colleges to embrace all students in all of the four colleges. 
By focusing the UniversitY's attention on the Honors Pro­gram, we are denying precious resources to this more broad effort. Every dollar spent on the Honors Program means one less dollar to improve edu­cation across the board. The time and effort maintaining such a program could be con­centrated elsewhere. 
Moreover, by selecting the most senior professors to teach Honors Program classes, non­program students are being denied their equal opportunity to those same professors. Non­program students are often denied the chance to take a course from a Kozak or a Delaney. This actually might serve to demote the quality of the general course offering. 
Perhaps there are sound jus­tifications for an Honors Pro­gram at Notre Dame. Surely the program would not have been instituted without good reason. For its members,• the Honors Program no doubt serves as a stimulating and academically rigorous educa­tion that may have not been available in the general curriculum. Faculty might also enjoy teaching honors courses. 
Unfortunately, by running the program in a secretive way, none of these accomplish­ments are ever heard. The in­tellectual debate that is so vi­tally a part of all academic life is denied by not allowing the program to be open to careful scrutiny. One will never know whether the program serves the best interests of the Univer­sity until it is brought out into the light of inquiry. 
If, in the end, the Honors Pro­gram is a good thing, the Uni­versity should stop hiding it. If not, it should be disbanded. 
Rob Henning is a senior eco­nomics major and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 



Remembering the good old days 
By Julie Courtney 

Elliot pulled on his mask before stepping out into the bright sunlight. It was neces­sarily tinted, as they all were, to protect his eyes from the damaging, ultra-violet rays. He walked leisurely to his new auto flyer and raised the wing. The bulk of his ozone suit was always a hindrance when trying to settle into the small machine. Being a material en­gineer, Elliot hoped to one day create a suit that was more lean and flexible, but for now one had no choice but to. wear bulky ones. He hated them, thought they too closely resembled those ancient "space suits," in the pictures Grandma had shown him of the first men to walk on the moon. And to think that now there were space suits. And to think that there were people actually inhabiting the moon. Mter all, it really wasn't all that differ­ent from the Earth except for the aspect of gravity. And 
DOONESBURY 

He was approaching the Rio poorwill in the neighboring Grande. Usually there were wood. huge billboards along bridges. Though he was only about 10 Elliot supposed it was to spare minutes from his home, Elliot the drivers the hideous sight of was feeling a little drowsy. He the rivers, now so efficient in knew it was probably because removing human waste off the of the heady day-dreaming he land and into the oceans. had been engagine in this whole Grandma said they were once time. He shook his head trying 
· clean and filled with plants and to rid himself of the sleep animals and were actually feeling but it did not work. He used for swimming and drink­eyelids began to droop as his ing water. head nodded. A hazy thought A small whistling sound was penetrated the fog in his brain. · emanating from his dash. El­He tried to make his hand liot, immersed in thought, reach for his mask but it was glanced around absend­too heavy. Elliot's head hit the mindedly, and dismissed it as steering wheel as the auto flyer the outside wind. Though the careened into the side of a can­sun was now nearly set, the sky yon. The autoflyer's was still aglow from all the vacuumization systems were cities. Elliot had never known not yet perfected. Unfortunate­utter darkness, though ly, Elliot had neglected to read Grandma had tried to describe the warning in his owner's it to him. As a girl, she'd lain manual. on the ground at night and been able to make out stars and even Julie Courtney is a humanistic constellations. She reminisced studies and English major at the cool, dank earth against her Saint Mary's College and is a back, the wet grass on her member of the Environmental cheek, and the sound of a Whip-Action Club. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
people only had to deal with gravity if they ventured out­side, which, from what Elliot had heart, was a rare oc­curance. Like the Earthlings, Lunarites had to don big bulky suits, but they were for gravita­tional reasons, not because of ozone damage and toxic pollu­tion. 
Grandma was really begin­ning to get to him lately ... al­ways moaning about the days when she could walk outside without a mask, eye tints, or ozone suit. It was hard for El­liot to imagine what it would be like to bare his flesh to the sun's harsh rays. Grandma said people used to "lay out" under the sun with scarcely anything on and called it "sun bathing.'' 
He settled into the auto flyer, started the engine and moved out onto the airway. There was so much traffic these days they had to have certain routes. Grandma said they're a lot like the auto fares of the old days. 
Elliot relaxed as the traffic 
... 8UT I {)()KNOW IT'5 NOT lf!<Eft,Y 7D (j() ON1NlJeFINITE3LY. HIS SUFF&RJNG tJ.JIU !313aJME3 TOO MON5TRDU5. IM GLAD­
ANI? I'M SUR/3 HE'5 GLAI?-YOU 
SAW HIM AT 7H15 ~AG&. 
\ 
began to thin out. He was heading west, out the metrop­olis to his home, a mere hundred miles away. It would take about 30 minutes to get there. Now that he had begun thinking about Grandma, he could not stop. He looked out over the dead wasteland that had supposedly once been green with trees and plants like the ones in the museums. Grandma said the replicas weren't half as pretty as the ones that had grown naturally. She had shown him pictures of one of her summer "camping" trips to Glacier National Park in Montana. That area had since been destroyed by ero­'>ion. water and air pollution. 
Elliot was getting tired of wearing his mask so he pulled a lever to empty his chamber of the toxins in the air. There was a loud vacuum sound as the air was neutralized for human intake. A blinking red light told Elliot it was safe to take off his mask. He lit a cig­arette and exhaled slowly. 

t..trreR, He COUW GO 8l!Nl), lOSe H/5 HAIR, OR 5HRIVEL. UP1.-11<8 A RA/5/N FROM JJ&HYCJf?ATION. AI{)S PATI£N75 CAN £Vl3N l?tVE3/..0P RJN6AL...INFCCTION5 NORMAUY 
FOUNI? IN OIICXEN5 ANI? 
""-. 
'The next world war will be fought with stones.' 
Albert Einstein 



-,--~----~------~--A------------------~-~~-------~-,-----------~-----~----~~ 


Accent
Thursday, April 13, 1989 
page 11 


50's-style dining at Sh-Booms Grille 
Speaking out against 
COLLEEN CRONIN assistant accent writer 

D
onald Woods, whose expe­rience was the basis for the movie "Cry Freedom", will speak tonight in Cushing Auditorium, in conjunction with Apartheid Week 
Woods studied law at the University of Capetown, en­tered into journalism, and in 1965, at age thirty-one, be­came the Editor-in-Chief of The Daily Dispatch, a long­established South African newspaper. 
During his twelve-year stay as Editor, he· was prosecuted in court seven times due to his editorial attacks on the South African racial policy. The country has stringent publication laws restricting criticisms of government policies. 
In 1977 a friend of his, the young black leader Steven Biko, was killed. Woods pub­lished the details of this mur­der and was subsequently ar­rested and punished without 
BUZZ MC FLA TIOP 
010 YoU /UA,l) IN 05A TODAY ,A&£,)'(' flU. /1{£.5£ 
~o~CAU£tJ ~II<AU£.'5{' 



1r?\ 

''t.IK£. 1'1(£. IMI/4.€ ~J"E~vS /1Pf£AI<IIIItf. IN<4 iOIO?t-t.,tJ, '' 
~ 7J(Ar~ Jfi y t-£/'lo I 
I . 
months after his arrest, fol­legal process. than one person at a time. 
He was banned from These banning orders were lowing personal attacks on h1s writing, speaking in public, imposed upon him for five wife and five children, he being quoted in the press, years. managed to escape with his 
speaking with more than one But Woods did not wait for family across the border into person at a time, and even five years, he didn't even the country of Lethoso, which being in a room with more wait for one year. Three is officially under black rule. 
MARK McLAUGHLIN J accent writer 
T 
he 50's diner hits the shopping mall. 
That's Sh-Booms Grille in a nutshell. The decQt is hip, music is old, and the food diner-stuff. 
The decor is really pretty cool. There's some of those booths with the individual juke boxes, chock full of music that is frankly very before my time. It soundJd good but I couldn't recoghize it most of the time. The floor is black and white checker­board, the waitresses wear bobby sox, and the neon signs advertise "black cows." .r That's root beer Jioats, for those of you who didn't know. I didn't. 
All this is a bit spoiled by the late 80's shopping plaza window in the front, but youl can't have everything. 
We tried out the hamburgers, their specialty. The bacon cheeseburger deluxe ($4.20) was quite a meal. The deluxe ,natters come with fries and ice cream, and all the burgers come with lots of toppings if you want them. 
The burgers are huge (way bigger than the bun), and 
BoY/~5 l"fY ~ /lt.Jfl-('! tJI{o'5 6:oT11{£ 
13£N-~y? 
/ I/£SfWS.I 
....__ 
C~T{f£f~!( 

South Africa's racism 
definitely "hand-formed 
too stuffed to brave ground beef with no salt Fresh pies and your added," as advert~ed. The fudge brownie fries were fried iffthis out­"mud slide" rageous battery stuff that om1aE:~a especially made them rather unique. I good. although my Sh-Boom's slow spot was 
that they ~the service. A very slow spot, 

JU>JJUUU<;;U 
the fries taste like the onion rings. * 
The other ourgers were equally filling. The the house looked double ($4.75). 
uoc•u""~"""<1~'M· 
"".''"""'" 
the usual 
chili, fries, 

chili ($1.50) was good for complementing burgers, hot dogs and f~¥ts... but was too ta~t{l~r~\~l own. P28{1c~<t~~fon loaf ($2.9s,'halfild¥ $1.75) unless you're really hungry. 
The dessert menu featured 
ice cream sodas, sundaes, 
shakes and floats, but we 
WVFI Top Ten Albums 
Mar 26-Apr 1 , 1989 
1
. XTC, "Oranges and Lemons" 

2. 
The Pogues, "Yeah, Yeah,..." 

3. 
The Connells, "Fun & Games" 

4. 
The Clean, "Compilation" 

5. 
The Cult, "Firewoman" (single) 

6. 
Fugazi, "Fugazi" 

7. 
Leaving Trains, "Transportational d.vices" 

8. 
Firehose, "from Ohio" 

9. 
Robyn Hitchcock, "Queen Elvis" 

10. 
Mystic Eyes, "Our ·Time to Leave!" 


In 1978, the Woods family reached London, England where they still live today. Donald Woods presently works as a writer, a broadcaster, and a lecturer on apartheid. 
Woods also has penned three books on South Africa: "Biko" is a biography about his young friend of the same name, "Black and White" describes South Africa's ra­cial situation, and "Asking For Trouble" is his autobiog­raphy. Due to his experience, he travels throughout the world, briefing governments and addressing audiences on the subject of apartheid. 
For the past several years, though, Woods has mainly toured American campuses, stressing the need to place economic pressure on the South African government through divestment. 
Woods' lecture tonight is at 8 p.m. and there is a $2.00 admission charge. It is spon­sored by the Student Union Board. 
actually. Our order was taken 15 minutes after we got in, some of the food was cool 
en brought out and our 
itress never asked us how our food was until we ,.,u.ot~::.t:ocu her for more water. 
was not especially polite ,pr~~heery, either. LL~-Booms is located in the Indian Ridge Plaza on Grape Road, which is..roughly across Grape from Toys-R-Us. Their ho~ are: Monday through Thursday, 10:30 a.m. to 9 p.m., Friday and Saturday 
10:30 
a.m. to 10 p.m., Sunday 

10:30 
a.m. to 6 p.m. 


So if you're hungry, broke and tired of Top 40 music, Sh-Booms Grille is definitely worth a trip. Bring quarters for tht juke box. 


..,,....._____.,.....___~-----·----------~-=--=•w-....--------~----~------._.........___._..,.__..____..,__ ~ -~ 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, April 13, 1989 


'Sugar Ray' Robinson dead at 67 
Associated Press heavyweight champion and a appreciated the fact that he volved because it had been friend for nearly 50 years. "Ali gave me the chance to win the some time since Robinson had 
CULVER CITY, Calif. got a lot of his style from Rob­championship. He was a classy seen his private physician, Sugar Ray Robinson, whose inson. . . We'll all miss him. I fighter." Dambacher said. name and style spawned a gen­know I'll miss him." Former heavyweight cham­"We will be investigating the eration of imitators, died Wed­Robinson won the mid­pion Larry Holmes, reached by circumstances surrounding his nesday, remembered as the dleweight title when he stopped telephone in Philadelphia, des­demise and taking care of the real "Sugar Ray," the best Jake LaMotta in the 13th round cribed Robinson as a pioneer cause and manner of death," fighter pound-for-pound who on Feb. 14, 1951, in Chicago. and "the greatest little fighter he said. "It does not appear at ever lived. When he met LaMotta, his that I've known." this time there will be an 
Robinson, who held both the record already was 119-1-2. Said Holmes : "a lot of times autopsy. We will know more to­world welterweight and mid­Perhaps his most people say Muhammad Ali was morrow." dleweight titles, died after a memorable rivalry was with the greatest of all time. He was long illness at the age of 67. Al­Gene Fullmer, whom he beat the greatest of his time. Larry Judy Davis, the public rela­though details were not imme­only once in four meetings. He Holmes was the greatest of his tions at Brotman Memorial, diately available, Robinson lost the middleweight title to time. Mike Tyson is the said Robinson was brought to had been reported to be suffer­Fullmer on Jan. 2, 1957, on a greatest of his time. the hospital's emergency room ing from Alzheimer's disease 15-round decision, then "Sugar Ray Robinson was by paramedics at 9:55 a.m., as well as diabetes and hyper­regained it on May 1 in Chicago the man, along with Joe Louis. along with his wife Millie. tension. with one of the most famous Those two guys opened the door Davis declined to describe 
Robinson retired from one-punch knockouts in boxing for the rest of us. Anytime you his symptoms. boxing in 1965 after a record of history, ending that fight in the get into a conversation about "His family called 175-19-6 with 110 knockouts. He fifth round. old-time greats, those are the paramedics this morning, they won the vacant world welter­He and Fullmer fought to a two people everyone talks brought him in," she said. "We weight, title on Dec. 20, 1946, draw on Dec. 3, 1960, and he about." can't comment beyond that." with a 15-round decision over lost a 15-round decision to Ful­Los Angeles County Tommy Bell and never lost a lmer on March 4, 1961 in Las coroner's spokesman Bob In Las Vegas, boxing fight to a welterweight the rest Vegas. Dambacher said Robinson was promoter Bob Arum said Rob­
of his career. "He was a good fighter, prob­pronounced dead at 10:09 a.m. inson had been in poor health 
"Generations of fighters ably one of the best," Fullmer at Brotman Memorial. "It ap­for some time. copied his style, including said. "He was rangy. He was pears to be of natural causes," "Sugar Ray Robinson was Muhammad Ali," said Archie fast, quick and smart. he said. the greatest boxer that ever Moore, former light "I always admired him and The coroner's office was in-lived," Arum said. 
N D golf prepares for Kepler Invite's Scarlet Course 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team will face its toug­hest challenge of the season when it travels to Columbus, Ohio to compete in the 21st annual Robert Kepler Invi­tational on April14-16. 
The 54-hole tournament will be held at Ohio State's Scarlet Course and will fea­ture the top teams from the Big Ten and Mid-American Conference. 
The Irish had a difficult time last year in the Kepler as they compiled rounds of 333-328-336 for a 997. Doug Giorgio (Savannah, Ga.) was the highlight of the 
tournament  for  the  Irish  
after he fired  a  74 in the  
second round.  

Notre Dame achieved its best finish in the tournament in 1978 when the golf team placed fourth out of 26 teams with rounds of 396-378-394 for a 1,168. 
The Observer accepts classif1eds every busmess day from 10 a.m until 4 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 un1113 p.m at the Sa1nt Mary's off1ce. 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class1f1eds 1S 3 p.m All classif1eds must
Classifieds be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per f1ve characters per day. 
NOTICES  FOUND: Lady's ring near Grotto. Call Jan 234-3548 evening to Identity.  ATTENTION-HIRING! Government Job•·your area. $17,840-$89,485. Call  :SCAP..... The Word of the Futurell! Use rtNOWII  Top Ten Reasons to take Gender Studies Classes  ATTENTION ALL MARY MAHONEY FANS: MR. STANFORD WAS FIXED!  
1-*12-&8-8885. Ext. R6262.  10l Look good on resume  AFTER  FUR  THER  REVIEW  BY  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  FOR RENT  I have a job, but I need a place to live. Looking lor roommate(s) to share costs  SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  9JNon-checkmarked classes 8)Free refreshments at GS recep­tions  REPLAY OFACIALS, IT HAS BEEN DETERMINED THAT MARY MAHONEY IS IN FACT MR. STANFORD.  
...  NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available' PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a computer, Call Sue'• Secretarial Ser· vtce anytime Ill 299-0063. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. SKI TEAMSKI CLUB YEAR END BAN· OUETThis Thursday,April13. Meet 7:30 Bruno's Pizza( next to Bridget's) All mem· bers & trip participants invited!! More In· to? call 288·5423 Typing.Wordprocessing 277·5014 LOST/FOUND FOUND: Set of keys in room 215 O'Shag. A University of Notre Dame Keychain­room 309. Call II 3688 to claim. WEDDING RING LOST WEDNESDAY, PROBABLY NEAR HAYE$-HEALY. WIDE BAND, SILVER. CALL PROF. SAYRE 239-7124. REWARD FOUND: ONE SET OF KEYS ON SOLrrHQUAD BENCH OLrrSIDE ALUMNI HALL ON THURS. PLEASE CALL J.C. AT 1001 TO CLAIM. LOST: Gold Bracelet in North Dining Haii­Fianner area. It is a promise bracelet from my boyfriend; you can see why it has great sentimental value and is irreplace· able. II you find it or have any information, PLEASE call Jennifer at x3590. REWARD. LOST: SET OF KEYS room 213. Call Julie at II 3567. LOST: GOLD WEDDING RING SOME· WHERE BETWEEN Dl AND DILLON. IT HAS DEEP SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL·.283·2447 IF FOUND. WILL PAY A REWARD OF CASH OR OTHER SERVICES SHALL BE AEN· DERED. ······················· LOST Gray Ladies SWATCH..s~i: ..L.;,.t on or near South Quad. II found please call 284·5504. ······································· LOST--Yellow Minoha ~~~ii;;;;;;~;;.;l camera at Stepan courts % REWARD contact Geoff Weidner 283-2213  on apArtment in Chicago Call Keith x4197 NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. WANTED: Kegerator lor 89-90287-&89, 683-8889. Call 283-1758 fiouse··--Fc;R'····fi"ENr··--ovE·;;··--;:HE SUMMER· NEAR CAMPUS. 232·3616 GRADUATE STUDENT BeautHul room, private bath, laundry, kitchen prlvllegea, aecurity system, 12 FOR SALE mlns. from campus. 272-5989. MALE GRADUATES ATTENTlON-GOVERNMENT HOMESFurnished rooma, air, kitchen, fridge, from $1 (U-repalr). Dallnquent tax5 min. N. campua. 272-()615. property. Repo...sslona. Call 1'*12· ································································ 838-8685 Ext. GH-6262.Staying for the summer? Need a place to sleep? Sublease our APT!! II!! TURTLE ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZEDCREEK! FULLY FURNISHED! call 277· VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mar­3346. cedes Corvettes, Chevya. Surplus MARION·s;:Fi·eEr ;FFi.\1-'fi'ouse;·FaR Buyers Guide. 1 -*12-113&-8885 Ext. A­RENT 9person oc· 6262. cupancy,2baths,bsktbllcrt pool tbl,3rd floor bar&party room 3 car garage,fire Macintosh (128K) For Sale! Includes im· place,washer&dryr must see this agewriter, numeric keyboard, dust covers home!call 289·1233 and mouse pad. Call Brennan at x1808. ····················································· SUMMER·:A:PT~2··aR·:·;:~~~·c;;k·F~i~ BUICK Skyhawk; 1986; 38,000 miles; Ex· furnished-call 2598 cellent condrtion: $5,500. Call Ranjini at 233·5718 Turtte ··c~~k ·'APt··f~~---~~-b~~-~~~ ···d·~·;i·~ ........................................ summer months; call Felix 3368 or Man "PASSPORT" RADAR DETECTOR 3255 RATED # 1 IN WORLD ················································ ALL ACCESSORIES INCL PAID OVER 710 REX STREET $400 X3201 $300 &0 CLEAN HOME, 3-5 BEDROOMS, 2 MOVING OFF-CAMPUS? Recliner, sofa and other misc. furniture BATHS 89-90 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL lor sale. For more info, call Jana 258·0129 CHUCK GLORE AT 232·1778. MOVING OFF-CAMPUS? OWN ROOM. Apt. W excel. amenities. Recliner, sofa and other misc. furniture Built in deskollhelves. Considerate male lor sale. For more info, call Jana 258·0129 or female non-smoker. $195 ¢ 112 uti!. ···························································· Call 256-1538. 1986 FORD T·BIRD, 3.8 V-6, white 41,000 miles. Under extended war· Rooms lor rent, S121»no; ALSO 2 ranty (until 57000 miles). $7100 Call Bedroom home lor rent on NO Ava 277-5316 evening, 239-7388 day272~ 10 speed bike lor sale good condrtion WANTED I ~0 or best offer call 283·3582 FRUSTRATED? I TICKETS Need Money? Part time, 13K·53K year. Now seeking highly motivated people lor NEED 3 GRAD TIX $$$ PAT opportunities in management and sales . 277.0548 I need help now! Call Phil219·232·4783 CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE WANTED FOR AIRLINE SERVING SOUTH BEND. PLEASE CONTACT PERSONALS] J.GEDRA, CONTINENTAL EXPAES STANDARD OIL BLDG, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135. MF··"Conlidence is high. My state is peaking." I NEED GRADUATION TIX IN A BIG BIG WAYII CALL DAN II 3495 $$$$$$$$ hi ag ······································· AN TOSTAL'89 GENERAL MEETING CLERKS ND LIBRARY AUDITORIUM MONDAY  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373. Desmond Tutu is IN STEP NY, NJ, MA, and Ml are IN STEP Little Steven is IN STEP U of California, U of Massachusetts U of WiS<;vnsin, Georgetown, Harvard, and Columbia are IN STEP The Holy Cross Fathers are IN STEP All of the above are IN STEP becaus they support divestment & sanctions in South Africa. Are you IN STEP?? II so, come to a musical celebration with the Anti-Apartheid Network and ALAN FAYE & THE McNEILLSI!!! FRIDAY ··6 to 8 PM· -DOME STEPS!! JJUNIOAS·JUNIOAS·JUNIORS­JUNIORS... Save your money, senior trip sign ups coming soon !!!!! JJUNIOAS·JUNIORS·JUNIORS­JUNIORS ... "Triple A Student Painters" now hiring college and high school students for sum· mer. Good wages. Call 291·2158. LIVE IT, LOVE IT ZEPFEST Ill 1628 PORTAGE AVE. THIS FRI. (4:00P.M.) AND SAT. (3:00 P.M.) GET THE LED OUT!!! CALCUTTA RAIN Saturday at Club 23 Get Wener!-10 p.m. My dearest Phil Kraker: I want you to stroke my blonde hair on the elevator whare no one can disturb us, espe­cially Molly. I luated lor you In the car and I dream of tha nlte we can con­summate our love. Please teke a walk wHh me on the path of love. I want you to lather my children. Love you always, Robbie II anyone io staying in South Bend for the summer and ne!+ds a roommate or would like to gel an apa,•ment, call Tony at x1537 I need three Graduation tickets Will pay big bucks. call Chuck at 1173 Ithaca NY, Cornell vicinity I need a ride 4-27·511 call Molly at 4190 SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES APPLICATIONS FOR NEXT YEAR CABINET POSTITIONS DUE FRIDAYfl SOPHOMORES SSOPHOMORES To Phi We Cant Slamma Jamma Just a  ?)Opportunity to understand the mo· lives behind fat jokes 6)Chance to buy textbooks from obscure presses 5JHelps understand jokes in Com­mon Sense 4JHelps make ND a kinder, gentler campus 3)Provides new arguments for dis­cussing the Sports Illustrated swim­suit issue 2JLearn when a cigar is just a cigar 1lChance to meet people willing to use the word "c " and "p " in a personal ad. "'"'"""IRISH SPRING RUN"••••••• 3 AND 6 MILE RUNS SATURDAY. APRIL 15 RUNS START AT 11:00 SIGN UP IN THE NV A OFFICE CALL239-6100 FOR MORE INFO. T·SHIRTS TO BE GIVEN TO THOSE WHO COMPLETE THE RACE THE KINSEY REPORT THE KINSEY REPORT THE KINSEY REPORT THE KINSEY REPORT will be playing their style of blues at THEO's on Sat. April15 at 10 pm. FREE FREE FREE ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS will ba at Northwestern U $25 TIX include transpo and concert ticket. These will go on sale Fri. April 14 at 3pm at the S.U.B. office. Concert is April 22 BARBARA BILLINGSL YS OINTMENT BARBARA BILLINGSL YS OINTMENT FRIDAY AT McCORMICK$ 10pm I need a ride to IU lor Little 500 weekend. Can leave anytime, will pay lor gas. Please call Kathleen at # 2666. John and I need a ride to the Unlv. of Dayton this weekend. Will pay. Call Paul at II 3610. Looking lor a ride to Miami of Ohio this weekend. Will help with costs. Call Sarah at 1825. AIDE NEEDED­DAYTON,CINN,COLUMBUS AREA· WEEKEND OF 4-21 CARRIE 284-5415 the I love drac I an club. 1. Sac 2. Nag 3. Slag 4. Dippy 5. Kansas 6. Dom 7. Big Ed 8. Boots 9. Rockel and 10. Diane CAROL BETH STANTON Happy Blrthdaylllllll!Ill! Welcome to adulthood! . ......... se;;:N·&·:r·He ..suN..i<iNG·s··--······ live at club 23 come hear the music l"day night at 10pm DRINKS,FUN AND MUSIC FRIDAY AT CLUB 23  '  -BRONCO BUSTER Heh Sara Llebscher, Krlssl· Davis and Annie Schwartz-those three gor­geous basketball babas that dine In NOH on Wednesday mornings. I've worshiped you all from a far, lor three years and now It Is time to let you know. I'd love to get you alone In the weight room and teach you the meaning of the word respect -a secret admirer Liz Sweeney, I won the bet. You missed our big date by hanging out w1 big John until the wee hours and beyond, but I'll forgive you. You owe me. I though we were a lot closer than this alter tha big tour of Lowell and Father Doody. The $20 spot Is mine now. -PJK ENGINEERS' WEEK Treasure Hunt--Clue # 4 Don't tire. Don't put out your lire. Keep searching You're almost there. To the 'swell" g1rl who left a note on my book in SMC library on Tues nite. Sorry I didn't reply. I know your lace, not your name. Figure my name out and I'll take you to Tippecanoe brunch. -JG ELISA DUNN Lose the attitude or the magnitude. Mommy says you can'l have both. HEY, SLIDE! (why do they call you that?) A frivolous flower, fleeing, Flying, Run· ning away ... And a tallest tower, treating, Trying, Lonely today ... But the truly gentle knight ·he knows Bringing, warming, when lhe cold wind blows As all other means fail from the start There is but one way to win her heart He presents not trinkets tied in bows But seff: this sweet and wonderful rose. You know, You REALLY make me NEA· VOUS! MR. VICE ..................... ···················· Harry "PSYCHO" Neidig turns ~1 tn1s weekend. The world quivers at the threat of impending doom. Call this "ROTC god"/'ballroom dancer extraordinaire" a call at 2287 to wish him a happy Bday. STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES Thurs. NHe  

M·F 10pm to 5am;5am to 12m 4.25otlr APRIL 17 9 P.M. FOUND: Gold·lealed watch·:;;_; ... 
···························· reminder to you sloths who think you can SEAN & THE SUN KINGSM·F 9am to 4pm 4.00tu Great Uttle Food hoop. Thurs. Stepan 2 4:45 We're gonna CLUB 23Inscription: "REEG'S ON THE Store 12760 US 23 Granger 277·8102 FOREIGN STUDENTS Job-Hunting Kick your <>II •&%11 From Emma 
THANK YOU ST JIJDE Fri. NHeISLAND" 

Guide (Rev. 1989). Send $19.951or the Weekend Warrior Fan Club 
MAT::iO'S on Ironwood ACT IN TV COMMERCIALS. NO EXPE· step-by-step guide. lvysolt, PO Box Good Afternoon Robert Houlihan,Sir! We 
RIENCE. ALL AGES. CHILDREN, 241090, Memphis, TN 38124 (under 21 welcome at Mateo's)
HOW WELL DO YOU KNOW. YOUR know you read the personals ... 
Lost: REEG'S on the ISLAND GOLD TEENS, YOUNG ADULTS, FAMILIES, 
····································-··········· ROOMMATE? Find out and have some ············--:rj;··s:roilii··;;u·;;Pies····WATCH ETC. HIGH PAY TV ADVERTISING. The Holy Cross Fathers are in step. fun this THURS 7PM at PW's annual Please return, Engagement gift w great CALL FOR CASTING IIIFORMATION. ND··GET IN STEPIII 
THURS. NITE 

ROOMMATE GAMEIII HEY -to the guy on the rider board offering sentimental value. CALL Francis: x1436. CHARM STUDIOS, (313) 542-8400 EXT. 
at CLUB 23NDMN (who will be the NEW .... BRALESS a ride to D.C. on the 28th if you still need FRI. NITEBIG REWARD $$$$$. 2283. 

WONDER???) a rider, call Braff at x2034. thanx at MATEO's 
......................~-~-~~-~-;·:·~·:·~=·-·:·~··::·~·-__ ----~-~---:·.·:··:·~~--~·-.:·:··.:·-~·-:··:··~---~--~---~--~··:·-~·: ..:··~--~··:·~·-~ ..~·-:··~ -----·:..:··:··:··~··:··~¥·~:·~--~--~~~::;··~······· 

Thursday, April 13, 1989 The Observer 
PEACHES HAS CHANGED ITS NAME TO COCONUTS MUSIC AND MOVIES. 
But what's in a name? As Coconuts you'll still find our great selection of hits on sale everyday, as well as over 20,000 items to choose from including the area's best selection of compact discs! And if you stop in to Coconuts now you can get additional savings on your favorite music using the coupons below, proving once again that no matter what our name is, it spells super low prices for you! 
I # COUPON 2
~------.,COUPON 1 I~------.,# 
I 1 
I  ANY  II  ANY  I  
1 WSETTE OR LP I I COMPACT DISC 1 ssaa II SJJ88  I  
I  Present this coupon at Coconuts Music & Movies and receive any cassette or LP  I II  Present. this coupo? at Coconuts Music & Mov1es and rece1ve any compact d1sc  II  

(regularly priced up to $9.99) for just $5.88. (regularly priced up to $15.99) for ~us_t Not valid with other offers. Limit 3. $11.88. Not valid with other offers. L1mtt~3. Expires 4/15/8Q. Expires 4/15/89.
.J L









L-----------­
Also get these top college hits on sale now (no coupon required): 

CS/LP $5.88; CD $11.88 

CS/LP $5.88; CD $11.88 CS/LP $5.88; CD $11.88 
PUCHES IS NOW COCONUTS 
MUSIC & MOVIES 
Mishawaka. 5784 N. Grape Road, Indian Ridge Plaza. (1/2 mile west of University Mall), 271-9715 
• 

T0489-037 
page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Blue-Gold Game will be held Saturday, April 22, at 1:30p.m. in the stadium. NotreDameandSaintMary's students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at gates 15 and 16. Spouses and children must have a ticket. General admission tickets for the public are available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday at gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Adult tickets are $3 in advance and $4 game day. Youth tickets are $1.50 in advance and $2 the day of the game. -The Observer 
• 

Squash Tournament sign-ups will be today at 5 p.m. in the NVA office for the tourney to be held Friday, April 14 through Sunday, April16. -The Observer 
Mud Volleyball workers and scorekeepers are needed. Call Ed Brooks at x3271 for more information. -The Observer 
Jordan Jammer team captain's meeting will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. Bring $3 and a team name. -The Observer 
The Bengal Bouts Banquet will be held for all boxers Wednesday, April19, at 5:30p.m., at St. Hedwig's Parish. Call Mike at x3386 for more information. -The Ob­server 
Mud Volleyball schedules have been posted in the SUB Office on the second floor of LaFortune. The first round of games will begin Friday, April14. Any teams that have not paid should get its money to Ed Brooks, 213 Keenan, by Thursday, April13. -The Observer 
SMC intramural tennis tournament will be held Friday and Saturday, April 14-15. Divisions include open, advanced, beginner and faculty-staff. The entry deadline is Wednesday, April 12, at 5 p.m., at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
Witness testifies in hearing; OU rape case continues 
Associated Press heard a scream and he, Clay, 
Keith Traylor and Bell ran into 
NORMAN --An Oklahoma the bedroom. football player told a judge He said Hall tried unsucces~ Wednesday he witnessed the fully to have intercourse with sexual assault of an Oklahoma the woman and then Clay at­City woman by teammates tempted to have intercourse Nigel Clay, Bernard Hall and with the woman while Hall sat Glen Bell in an athletic dor­on her upper body. Fennell said mitory Jan. 21. the woman told Hall '"take 
Clay, Hall and Bell are ac­your hand off my mouth. I can't cused of first-degree rape in the breathe. I'll do anything you alleged gang assault. Hall and want."' Clay also are accused of two Clay then got up, Fennell counts of furnishing liquor to a said, and Hall took his place minor. and "that's when he penetrated 
Jimmy Fennell testified in her." the third day of a preliminary "She said, 'Please, no, don't hearing for the three former do this. I've never been with a Sooners. Special District Judge guy before,"' Fennell said. Gary Purcell will decide if the Fennell said Clay and Bell three should stand trial on the then had sex with the woman, charges filed against them but he did not. Feb. 10. He said Traylor was off in a 
Fennell admitted to District corner of the room during the Attorney Tully McCoy that he attack. originally told authorities he Fennell said before the at­knew nothing about the alleged tack Hall had told him "if we rapes, but said he testified at have to we're going to take the urging of friends who said some from her" McCoy asked it was the right thing to do. Fennell what Hall meant by 
Fennell told the court he was "some," Fennell said "sex." in the bedroom of Clay's dorm Fennell testified he went to suite the night the woman said his own room after the attack. she was attacked. He said the Under cross-examination by woman did not resist when Hall attorney Fred Shaeffer, Fen­led her back to the bedroom nell said he gave investigators after she came out of the bath­from McCoy's office different room. stories the first two times he 
"I think he said 'I want to was interviewed. talk to you . . . and she just "!told him (the investigator) walked in with him,"' Fennell twice two different ones. The said. third time I came out and told ·-" 
The woman had testified him everything," Fennell said. Monday that someone grabbed her and led her into the dark­Fennell also said the victim ened bedroom and began unzip­was drunk. The woman's friend ping her dress. Fennell said the "had to keep reminding her. zipper, which ran diagonally (The woman) was sitting down across the front of the dress, and every now and then she was not unzipped. would open her legs up and (the 
Fennell said Hall turned out friend) would have to say the lights in the bedroom. Soon, 'watch yourself,"' Fennell he and others in the front room said. 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS SlOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

.­

page 14 
Humphrey opts for NFL; bids farewell to Alabama 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA --Bobby Humphrey, saying the pres­sure was "getting a little mind-boggling,'' announced Wednesday that he is giving up his final season at Ala­bama to make himself avail­able for the NFL supplemen­tal draft in July. 
The all-time leading Ala­bama runner said he has no preference which team he plays for, "just as long as the team pays money." 
Humphrey is the latest in a series of players to opt this month for the pros rather than stay at school. 
Barry Sanders, the Reis­man Trophy winning run­ning back from Oklahoma State, received special ap­proval from the NFL, re­quired because he is a true junior. He will be available for the regui<:~r April 23 draft. 
Quarterbacks Steve Walsh of Miami and Timm Rosen­bach of Washington State missed the filing deadline for the regular draft to be available for the supplemen­tal draft. As in Humphrey's case, they needed no special permission from the league. 
Humphrey  has  been  at  
school for four years.  
Although  he  suffered  a  

foot injury last fall, the Ala­bama running back said his doctors have given him per­mission to run at full speed. Turning pro, he said, 

Lund 
continued from page 20 

Lund has worked hard to master the defensive aspect of the catcher's position. "Block­ing balls is probably what I do best," he says, "And that's something we work at every day in practice. Lately I've been a little more successful with my throws--in the past I've been a little wild." 
Lund hasn't always been a catcher, though. At St. Francis High School in Pasadena, Cal­ifornia, Ed played outfield most of the time, but also backed up St. Francis's regular catcher, who went to USC on a full scholarship. 
An injury to Dave Yawman forced Ed to take over behind the plate as a sophomore at Notre Dame. "When coach Murphy came along last year, our first string catcher (Yawman) got hurt, so he put me back there," says Lund. 
"We stuck him out there one "gives me an opportunity to do something I haven't done since I was raised --to take care of me and my family." 


Coach Bill Curry said that Murry Hill, running at the No. 1 tailback spot in spring training, will start next fall. 
Hill, in three previous seasons, rushed for 981 yards for a 5.7-yard average. 
Humphrey said his deci­sion came after "a lot of ad­vice --some telling me to stay and some telling me to go, but I made it myself be­cause I have to live with it. It was totally my decision." 
Although he said he had "a lot of sadness" about ending his Alabama career, "I feel the opportunity is here, right in my grasp, and I'm going to grab at it." 
Had he decided to stay at Alabama, Humphrey said, "the Reisman Trophy could have been accomplished, but who knows?" 
True Alabama fans, he said, "will stand behind me 100 percent, and those who think otherwise are not true Alabama fans." 
Humphrey said he had "been under a lot of pressure over the last six months. It was getting a little mind­boggling, so I decided to get it over with." 
He said he has not settled on an asking price for an NFL contract, and that he will leave that to whichever agent he picks. 
to be our catcher," says Murphy, "And he picked it up on his own. You have to give Dave Yawman a lot of credit for pushing him and helping out our younger catchers." 
The Irish hope Yawman's training will help Ed Lund lead his team to a pair of victories against Butler this afternoon. Lund's improved offensive pro-
The ~""C;erver 

ND softball takes two from Bethel 

By MARY GARINO 
Sports Writer 
After sweeping St. Mary's in a doubleheader on Tuesday, the Notre Dame softball team stayed on the winning track by winning a pair of games from Bethel College in Mishawaka yesterday. 
The Irish (18c13) extended their winning streak to four games by defeating Bethel 15­10 and 13-2. The Notre Dame offense was in full gear in the first game, collecting 14 hits. 
Senior Tammy Goodwin was one of the hitting stars for the team, scoring three runs and going 2-3, including a home run. Dawn Boulac also scored three runs, and freshman lead-off hitter Laurie Sommerlad was 2-3. Amy Raczkowski pitched her first complete game, strik­ing out five as she won her first game of the year. 
Katheryn Vernetti paced the Irish in the second game with a 2-3 performance, and sopho­more Megan Fay added a home run for Notre Dame. The Irish scored their 13 runs in only five innings, as the game was cut short due to the ten-run rule. 
"In the second game we played much better as a team," Head coach Brian Boulac said. "In the first game, the pitcher was a little slow and all of the girls were trying to hit home runs." 
Senior Barb Mooney gave the Notre Dame pitching corps its second complete game of the day as she raised her record to 
against Xavier this weekend. 
Looking ahead to Butler, Murphy says, "Anything could happen. We caught them with their fifth and sixth best pitchers three weeks ago and beat them pretty good. But I'm reasonably sure we'll catch their best pitchers this time around." 
The Irish pounded the Bul­

duction (one home run and ·ldogs 15-1 and 12-3 at Butler seven RBI, including two game March 23. But if shortstop John winners) helped the Irish Nies gets hot for the Bulldogs, sweep a four game series the Irish could be in trouble. 
• 

BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 
tiijUj~ I~ 1: I 
BICYCLES •EXERCISERS .,.BMX HEADQUARTERS SALES-SERVICE -PARTS -ACCESSORIES 
SUMMER STORAGE 
ClOSED SIINDAY & MONOAY 
TUESDAY lOAM 7PM WWNESOAY-SATUROAY IO.'.M 5 30PM 
AVAILABLE 
ROSELAND 
MISHAWAKA 



277-8866 259-4862 
(()/tit-fl(«.e~ lov-e 

;tfo~ Oa" &/e, & Cofd'tlfe! [)(?fe~ too 

3-4. She allowed only three hits in the games today." over the five innings and struck "We'll have to concentrate a out six. bit more than we did today," 
The Irish will be on the road added infielder Laurie Som­again today as they play a merlad. game at Valparaiso at 4:00. Valpo is a member of the North Saturday the Irish will have Star Conference, which is very a home game against Lake strong in softball. Earlier in the County, a team that the Irish year, the Irish were defeated have faced in the past without twice by Wisconsin-Green Bay, much success. the last place team in the con-"We've been playing with ference. them for a couple of years, and 
"We have to upgrade our per-we lost to them last year," said formance a notch," Boulac senior Mia Faust. "I still feel said. "We have to be prepared confident that we can beat to play. I think the girls realize them because our program has that they played a notch lower been upgraded." 


r---------------------,
FREE 
SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS WHO NEED 


MONEY FOR COLLEGE 
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. 
• 
We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fellowships, grants, and loans. representing over $10 billion in private sector funding. 

• 
Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. 

• 
There's money available for students who have been newspaper car­riers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ...etc. 

• 
Results GUARANTEED. 


CALL For A Free Brochure • •] 
ANYTIME (800) 346·6401 ti 
L-------------------~-~ 
.1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111. 
=  SUMMER STORAGE  
FOR STUDENTS  
=  - 


---------~----------~----------------------~----------~--~--~-----.--~-------------------------------­Thursday, April 13, 1989 The Observer page 15 
The Tradition next stop on Senior tour White Sox's Fisk 
on disabled list 

Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE --Twenty­seven winners of major golf titles, including eight former Masters champions, are in the 72-man field for The Tradition, a new stop on the Senior PGA tour. 
"We hope this will become a Seniors Masters," said current Senior PGA champion Larry Mowry. "It's the perfect golf course for it." 
The tournament will be played on the 6,837-yard, par-72 Cochise Course at Desert Mountain. The course is one of three being built on 8,000 acres of scenic desert terrain. 
Almost every hole is consid­ered a difficult one with several featuring elevated tees leading to secluded greens. 
The $600,000 tournament begins Thursday and ends Sun­day with the winner getting $90,000. 
Among those entered in the 72-hole event are past Masters' winners Arnold Palmer, Gary Player, Tommy Aaron, Gay Brewer, Billy Casper, Charles Coody, Doug Ford and Bob Goalby. 
"This course is not going to yield a lot of low scores," said Mowry. "Those who have worked hard on studying the yardages and hit consistent yardages with their shots will score well." 
The course was the site for 
last April's four-man Desert 
Scramble and was designed by 
Jack Nicklaus, who turns 50 on 

Jan. 21 and has already com-there," said Player, a South come one of the premier stops mitted to play in The Tradition Mrican who has won 130 cham­on the tour. It's got the poten­in 1990. pionships around the world in-tial and certainly has a great Player, 53, and Palmer, 59, eluding the Masters in 1961, field and a very nice purse." will be playing in this area for 1974 and 1978 and 12 Seniors The Tradition's purse is the the first time since the 1984 titles. fifth-highest on the tour but Skins Game at nearby Desert "Jack has told me what a Palmer said he entered be­Highlands--another Nicklaus-great course we'll be playing. cause the tournament is designed course. If Jack tells me it's a great "something unique in the world 
"I love the desert. It's been course, well, I'm excited," of golf and I want to support a while since I've been out added Player. "This should be-this commendable proj~ct." 

with hand injury 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO --Chicago White Sox catcher Carlton Fisk has again fractured his right hand and could miss as many as 10 weeks --the same length of time he was sidelined after breaking the same hand last season, the team said today. 
Fisk was placed on the 15-day disabled list after Tuesday's game in Seattle. But the 41­year-old catcher said he believes the injury actually dates back to a March 11 spring training contest, when he sin­gled on a tight pitch from Toronto's Dave Stieb. 
The injury was then thought to be a jammed index finger and Fisk didn't take hitting practice for nearly two weeks. 
"Ever since it happened in spring training, it never felt the same," Fisk said. "Something happened then that went un­detected.'' 
Trainer Herm Schneider said the hand may be put in a cast, or that pins may be used to help fuse the fracture. The break is in the top portion of the hand, adjacent to the healed break that caused Fisk to miss 70 games in 1988. 
Catcher Matt Merullo, whose contract was purchased from Vancouver, will take Fisk's spot on the roster. 
Fisk caught six of seven games played this season. He is hitting .240 with two home runs and four RBis. 

Happy 20th Birthday, Maureen Lillis! 

Love, Your friends 
•
lD 


103Sorin 


Hoosier 
continued from page 20 
is to give the Hoosier Award to the best shooter in this year's tourney, based on five attempts per game with at least three games played. 
Continue to give an award for worst shooter, but just change the name. How about the Mon­tana Award or the South Dakota Award? Or better yet the Maine Award or the Ver­mont Award? 
How many All-Americans or NCAA champions have come from these states in the 1980s? The only time residents of those states have seen good basket­ball was when "Hoosiers" debuted at the local drive-in. 
I don't know why, but it's hard to prevent people from gunning for this worst shooter award. Some players in Bookstore are really bad, but can someone hit 1-of-23 shots while trying to score? 
An alternative is to mvent a new award. How about the Steve Nicgorski Award for the most original shot, the Bill Frieder Award for deserting your team in the round of 64, the Lou Henson Award for the team that chokes when the chips are down or the Jim Boeheim Award for the player or team that cries and com­plains the most. 
Even if no new awards are inaugurated, the Hoosier Award definitely needs to go. 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
~=~:·:~-~~~:i~~~:~~:::.·~~;l··~:·:·~p 
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing 

LaFortune.


ll II
on pocl tables tomght 
: Tonight Lecture by : • Donald Woods. • 
: Lecture on apartheid in : • the movie "Cry Freedom" • 
• 8 pm Cushing Aud. e : Tickets available at information desk •. • in LaFortune -$2.00 • 
e Co-sponsored by SUB and the e 
• Year of Cultural Diversity. e 
• 

~---~~~--------­
page 16 The Observer Thursday, April 13, 1989 
Bookstore schedule, results 
Bookstore Tournament 
Late Tuesday Results 
Stepan 1 4:00--Ted Bundy... over Licensed to Brick by 13 4:45-Snark over Posse in Effect by 13 5:30--We may not win ... over We dribble before by 
7 6:15-Swish Swish Brick over The Chubbies by 14 
Stepan 2 4:00--Clockwork Orange over Freedom Rock by 18 4:45-Stinky Pinkys over I hale to see her.~. by 5 5:30--Maureen McFadden ... over Malodorous Bad~~ by 2 
6:15--Maui Wowie over Short, slow ... by 4 
Stepan 3 4:00--The Plumbers over Kevin Mechem ... by forleit 4:45--Love Handles over Body Odor. Bad Breath... by 2 5:30--Get off our tips over Sex by 14 6:15--Boob Leffler.~ over Dr. Edwin Justice ... by 2 
Stepan 4 4:00-Lenny's American~ .. over R.P. Nes... by 11 4:45--Scum Bags over Sorin's Nephews by 11 5:30-Asmodeus.~~ over High Voelkage by 12 
Stepan 5 4:00--Medicine in Motion... over Lou's School... by 
10 
4:45--Clueless IV... over 5 Dried Boogers... by 7 5:30--1 Jim-Bob Daddy Otis.~~ over Manute Bel's 5 ... by 15 6:15--Supreme Dorks over Physical Plant by 12 
Stepan 6 ~ 
4:00--Malicious Prostitution over 4 Skins ... by 17 4:45-5 Guys who can't score over Slapping ... by forleit 
5:30--The Monsters ... over Basses o' Death by 4 6:15--Phil, the man... over The dorl, 2 geeks ... by 12 
Lyons 11 4:00--Fightin' Iris over Strapper Prisby ... by 3 4:45--The Violaters over 4 Hamburgers by 10 5:30--The Cotton Club over Bill the Cal's ... by 18 6:15--We can't think of a... over Scooter McCully's 
by9 
Lyons 12 
4:00--The Kids foam the Gritty .. over The Papil­loma ... by 11 4:45--Flipper... over Playing with Madness by 10 5:30--Duggan and guys~ .. over 4 Drunks and a man ... by 12 6:15--Nasty Norm and the gnashing ... over Meis­
terbrick by 10 
Bookstore 9 4:00--Pontius Pilate's... over 4 Drunks ... by 17 4:45--The 2nd Book of Maccabees over Nads by 
6 
5:30--Teetles and the four rips over OB's Pub by 
7 
6:15--Ocean Motion over Butt-kickers... by 2 
Bookstore 10 4:00--The Fellas over 3-Man Team by 9 4:45--Star's Studs over Elvis is Alive ... by 7 5:30--Freak over Activated Sludge by 3 6:15--Air Borden and the Milkmen over Too Drunk ... by 13 
Wednesday's Results Stepan 1 4:00--Two Third Stringers over We Double Pump 
by 10 4:45--John Towers Drinking Buddies over The Four Amazon Love Slaves by 12 6:15--Wade Boggs and the Heavy~ .over Playing Make-up Wearing by 8 
Stepan 2 4:QO--We Got Cut From Adworks over Upside Down Margaritas..by 10 4:45--Mike & the Minstrel Cycles over 4 Who Never Had it...by 5 5:30--The Fish that Saved Pittsburgh over Will Pad­dock or Egg~.bY 1 6:15--Swishkabob over Nestle Quik and the Bruise Brothers by 9 
Stepan 3 4:00--Pants Without Zippers over 4 People John Likes and.. Red Witch by 9 4:45--Khomeni's Bounty Hunters over Club 23 by 20 5:30--Kent's Getting Married over The Archy Jug­gernaut by forleit 6:15--"X" over Fletch Lives by 17 
Stepan 4 4:00--Wally, Eddy, Ward and 2 other.. over Min­nesota Minus 1 by 5 4:45--The Master Thespians ober Kerndog's Crew by 6 5:30--KicherS'I<isses over The Rim Greepers by 13 6:15--Marvery Firesteine and 4 other..over Raulston's Running Rebels by 11 
Stepan 5 
4:00--As-Salaam Akikum over Rodents of Unusual Size by 12 4:45--Slobbering Mabradogs over Gungakurt and the Dolls by 2 5:30--The Travelling Diggerberries over Tartar 
Sauce by 12 6:15--Gauchos over Greco-Roman All-Stars by 16 
Stepan 6 4:00--John Tower's Boys over John Tower, Keith Tower, and 3 others by 2 4:45--Vanilla Thunder over Totally CAWKS by 4 5:30--Doctor Love and the Passion Quartet over Prima Facie by 7 . 
Lyons 11 4:00--The Morning Missiles over Floor Lambeer by 10 4:45--Nuff Said over TV Tom and the Yardmen Messiahs by 11 
5:30--Physical Plant II over Hugh Jayris and the Probes by 3 
6:15--MBA's over Check Our Briefs by 19 
Lyons 12 4:00--Rubber Duckies over Ahura Mazda and the Zorastriars by 12 4:45--Gurus over MBA Bulls by 14 5:30--Barry Switzer, AI Capone and 5 others over Belchers and Kentucky..by 12 6:15--Logan and 4 Guys Without..over You'll Be Glad We Don't Wear Speedos by 9 
Bookstore 9 4:00--Ball-headed big daddy and the BDs over 4 Guys With a Future by 16 4:45--We're Shirts over Pareto Optimalists by 2 5:30--It's All about Dissih Cous over Sherpa's Army by 14 6:15--Slo-punch over Gordon Gekko and the inside Traders by 9 
Bookstore 10 4:00--The President, Beer, and 3 Guys over Chum by 19 
4:45--Nice but Nasty over Panama Frank and the 
Harlots by 17 5:30--Taller Lying Down over The Shmoosers by 15 
6:15--5 Guys Who Can Fill..over 4 Miscreants and 
a Quagmire by 5  
Stepan 6 6:15-­War Pigs Revenge Dingleberries by 3 Thursday's Games Stepan 1 4:00-­The Unoleums: We Groundkeepers at Busch Gardens  o ver Got  Dribbling Laid..vs.  

4:45--The Ultimate Set of Tools vs. LiNing, Beer, Chicks 5:30--Mele Mele Kiki Bobo vs. Mother Goose 6:15--Mookie's Elbows vs. 5 Guys that Go To the Hole With Authority Again 
Stepan 2 4:00--Pseudo tofu vs. Hey Elmer, Giver Me Your Lunch Money 4:45--Emma Weekend Warriors vs. Phi We Can't Slamma Jamma 5:30--The Bum Rush vs. Lotuses 6:15--4 Bartenders and Norm vs. And Besides You Ain't Got Nothing~~~ 

Stepan 3 4:00--Burning Discharge vs. One Jerk Too Many! 4:45--Passion Riders vs. What's Mayo Burning 5:3Q--Team Phlegm vs. Help! Can't Buy Me Love, The Night Before ... 6:15--One Point or Bust vs. So Much Like the Beatles ... 
Bookstore 9 4:00--Murphy's Bar vs. lggy Pop at the Buzzer 4:45--4 Studs and a Canuk vs. 4 Dribblers and a Shoot 5:30--Fighting Kernals vs~ Maureen McFadden Pas­
sion Seekers 
6:15--The Bar 0' Cash vs. Running Scared 
Bookstore f 0 Rushdic Stands a Better Chance vs. Howie's Heroes 4:45--We're Better in Bed vs. Development Dawgs 5:30--We Would Rather Win Games Than Have Friends vs. Jerry's Kids 6:15--Aip Side vs. Tex Toomey's Last Chance Cafe: 
Stepan 4 4:00--Global Video Trotters vs. John Tower's Drink­ing Buddies 4:45--EE's Know How To Use Their Hardware vs. Down is Smooth 5:30--Next Best Thing to a Bye vs~ Melancholy 6:15--Coaches vs. L.G.B.N. and F. 
Stepan 5 4:00--Fast Eddy and the Technicolor Yawns vs. Dirty Dogs and a Good Reason.. 4:45--The Dangerous Heat-Ons vs. we Can't Play But We Coach Better.. 5:30--4 Guys Who Wish They Could Play ..vs~ Non­oxynol 5 6:15--The Big Dudes vs. Jerry Atric, AI Zhymers, and ... I forger 
Stepan 6 5:30--5 Nondescript Guys vs. Transport Phenomena 6:15--The Cheese Farmers vs. Lunch With Claire 
Next Stop 5000 Miles Lyons 11 4:00--Snapperheads vs. The Staggering Deficits 
4:45--Team Marty Moose vs. We Have Armadillos In Our Trousers 5:30--Don't Shoot Skippy vs. 4 Guys You'd Like to 
Know and A Hoosier 6:15--Coach's Boys vs. Team Salva Lyons 12 
4:00--What the Heck's a Meatless Cheeseburger? vs. Rise and Fall of the Tower.. 4:45--Store-wreckers and Dishpan Hands vs. The 
Brickmasons 

5:30--He-man and The Women Haters Club vs. 
Anything 6:15--4 Troopers and the Hairless Wonder vs. We Dribble But Skiko Scores 
Tourney 
continued from page 20 
In some of the day's less monumental games, Pareto Optimalists, led by Jerry Sauder and Gary Scott, were pushed to the brink by We're Shirts, but won 21-19. The Fish That Saved Pittsburgh sur­vived without the services of Julius Erving and squeeked out a 21-19 victory. The fish of the day was senior Kevin Mochen who dropped in 10 buckets and pulled down five rebounds. An all senior team who has played 
together  for  four  years,  
watches  the  movie  before  
every game.  

In a game marred by physi­cal play, Harvey Firestine and 4 Other Guys Who Just Want To be Loved got a second chance by beating Raulston's Running Rebels, 21-10. The victors were paced by Joe Profy and Tony Iovine who contributed eight and seven points respectively. 

PREGNANT 
MOTHERS: 
PLEASE 
DON'T SMOKE! 
+AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY' 
is looking for qualified and interested persons to fill the following positions: 
NEWS-STAFF DIRECTOR
MUSIC DIRECTOR INFORMATION SYSTEMS MANAGER CHIEF ENGINEER
CHIEF ANNOUNCER PRODUCTION ENGINEER
SPECIALTY PROGRAMS DIRECTOR TECHNICAL ENGINEER
NOCTURNE NIGHTFLIGHT DIRECTOR I OPERATIONS ENGINEER 
~ 
I 

BUSINESS MANAGER MARKETING AND PUBLICITY DIRECTOR 
*P[ease direct a[[ questions to Christina 2\f,infian£ tef. # 2915 or Lisa McMahon, te[ # 4230. 

---------------~ -­
Thursday, April 13, 1989 
The Observer I Don Pan Punter Jim Sexton has averaged 41-42 yards per punt during the Notre Dame football team's spring workouts. He has been the only punter during spring practices, while Billy Hackett has been dueling with Rusty Ranallo for placekicking duties. 
Norman tries to rebound from disappointment 
Associated Press 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. --Another near-miss at the Masters this year was a more severe disappointment to Greg Norman than his previous losses at the Augusta National course. 
"It was the greatest disappointment of my life," Norman said Wednesday before a final practice round for the defense of his title in the $800,000 Heritage Classic. 
"More than when Jack beat me. Even more than when Mize beat me." 
Norman's last-hole bogey left him one stroke back of Jack Nicklaus in the 1986 Masters. He also lost the 1987 Masters to Larry Mize's historic playoff pitch-in. 
"This one hurt more because I knew I was playing better," said Norman, who again bogeyed the 72nd hole and missed a playoff by a single stroke. 
"In '86 and '87 I wasn't playing as well as I was this year. 
"I'd birdied four holes in a row to get back in it. I was leading the tournament when I played the 18th hole. "And I hit the perfect golf shot." But his 5-iron shot came up short of the green and he 
failed to get it up and down. 
"It was the right club and I hit it perfectly. When it's in the air, I said 'This one is close.' But the rain or something just made it fall out of the air. 


The Observer page 17 

Hackett, Sexton thinking big 
Irish have experience in both sections of kicking game 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
If Jim Sexton and Billy Hack ett had their way, the 1989 Irish football season would begin right now. 
The two are Notre Dame's re­turning punter and placekick­er, respectively, and, as some would say, both have been kick­ing "the dog" out of ball at this spring's football practices. 
Sexton and Hackett feel their kicking has improved tremen­dously this spring. 
"I'm in a groove right now," said Sexton, who averaged 38.7 yards per punt last year as he 
SPRING •
FOOTBALL 

PRACTICE 
handled 38 of Notre Dame's 44 punts. In work-outs this spring, Sexton's punts have averaged 41-42 yards. 
In the first Irish scrimmage this spring, Sexton had five punts for 215 yards. Sexton gunned the longest of these for 48 yards and averaged 43 yards. During the April 7th con­
test,  Sexton  averaged  41.9  
yards  and  had  one  punt  
blocked.  

Sexton stated that the recent cold weather has affected his practice because the chilly air makes the ball harder, making the results more difficult to judge. Despite the problem, Sexton fires between 40 and 60 punts almost every practice. 
Hackett, who with the graduation of Reggie Ho will be Notre Dame's only return­ing placekicker, also thinks he is kicking much better than last year. 
The improvement is due in part to a change in NCAA rules. Instead of kicking field goals out of a tee, next year the ball will be held and kicked off the ground. Hackett feels this dif­ference enhances his particu­lar style of kicking and makes him more consistent. 
"This is much more produc­tive with the way I kick," said Hackett. "It's a lot more flowing than kicking from a tee." 
Hackett emphasized the in­creased importance of the holder in the new system. This spring Sexton has taken over the role filled by Pete Graham last season. 
"It's more crucial that there's a good hold," explained Hackett. "The snap has to be there and the tilt must be just right." 
Irish coach Vinnie Cerrato echoed Hackett's comments. 
"The holder has a bigger job and Billy has to concentrate a lot more," said Cerrato. "Jim and Billy have been working well together this spring." 
Neither Hackett nor Cerrato would speculate if Sexton would continue to hold the ball next season, although Cerrato noted that "it's ideal if the punter can hold because they work together everyday." 
The two have lifted weights together all spring to improve the muscles in their legs. The work has paid off for Hackett. In the first scrimmage, the junior completed 7-11 field goals from 37 yards and 1-1 from 27 yards. In the most recent battle, Hackett made a field goal from 46 yards. 
Both kickers feel last year's experience has helped them, especially with the mental aspect of the game. Cerrato agreed, adding that the confi­dence level of both kickers has been a key factor in their im­provement this spring. 
"Both had lots of game expe­rience last year and know what it takes," said Cerrato. "They're a year older and a year stronger." 
Cerrato added that the per­
formance of both players at the 
Fiesta Bowl has carried over 
into the spring. 
"Jim kicked the ball well down there and Billy's field goal really added to their con­fidence," Cerrato said of Hack­ett's 45-yarder to open the scoring in that game. 
While Sexton does not have any rivals for his position this spring, walk-on Rusty Ranallo is trying out for the placekick­ing job. Hackett said he enjoys having someone to kick with. 
"Even though he hasn't got­ten any game experience, he's kicking real well," Hackett commented. 

Both Sexton and Hackett will face some stiff competition next fall when freshman Craig Henrich comes to Notre Dame. The Alton, Ill. native has been touted as the top kicking ­recruit in the country. Henrich, who will challenge for both the punting and place kicking pos­itions, averaged 47 yards a punt during his senior year and lauched four field goals of 50 yards or longer. 
Sexton and Hackett say these impressive numbers do not threaten them. In fact, they welcome the talent. 
"I need the competition to push me," said Sexton. 
"He'll make us perform bet­ter," added Hackett. "He may be the best in the country, but lots of us were the best in the country when we came here. It's a major transition from high school to college." 
While Sexton and Hackett anxiously await the 1989 foot­ball season, they feel Irish fans can rest assured that the kick­ing game will be experienced, solid and consistent when Notre Dame takes the field next year. 
IRISH ITEMS: Defensive lineman Bryan Flannery and quarterback Pete Graham both are out for the remainder of the spring drills. Flannery suffered a knee injury last week and Graham suffered a shoulder separation in Friday's scrimmage. 



NEW FROM ESTEE LAUDER 
ACTIVE SKIN SOLUTIONS I=OR OILY SKIN 

FACEWASH Self-Foaming System. The revolutionary, refreshing gel cleanser that creates a super lather all on its own in seconds. Measurably reduces surface oil and shine via new micro-sponge technology. Deep-cleanses. Gently exfoliates. Leaves skin with smoother texture, less visible pores. 6 oz. 15.00. 
IN-CONTROL T-Zone Solution. The breakthrough control system that delivers continuing action regulation of shine and related surface production up to 20% in one week, 33% in two weeks. Helps control acne and prevent breakout. 1.75 oz. 15.00. 
EQUALIZER Oil-free Hydrogel. The height of technological perfection for oily skin nourishment. Continuing action to reduce oiliness and shine. Monitors and disperses excess oil concentration. Improves firmness. Helps prevent and reduce the appearance of existing lines and wrinkles. 1.75 oz. 25.00. 
All ACTIVE SKIN SOLUTIONS are Non-comedogenic. Oil-free. 
fragrance-free. Come learn how Active Skin Solutions can come between you and your oily skin problems, at the Estee Lauder counter at Ayres University Park, 277-2950, ext. 2889; or Scottsdale Mall, 291-7700, ext 2624. 
-
LS·AYRES 
page 18 The Observer Thursday, April 13, 1989 
Ryan throws another near no-hitter; Rangers win 


i 
~ 
I 
I I 
' 
I ­
' 

Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE--Nolan Ryan allowed one hit in eight shutout innings and struck out a team-record 15 batters Wednesday night as the Texas Rangers beat the Milwaukee Brewers 8-1. 
Ryan, who has pitched a record five no-hitters, did not give up a hit until Terry Francona singled in the eighth after a walk to Glenn Braggs. Ryan retired the next three batters. 
Reliever Craig McMurtry gave up a run on three hits in the ninth. 
Ryan, 42, raised his all-time strikeout record to 4,798. He surpassed the Texas single-game mark of 14 strikeouts by Bert Blyleven and Jim Bibby, the only two Rangers to pitch no-hitters. 
Ryan, who has never pitched a per­fect game, did not permit a runner until Robin Yount walked on a 3-2 pitch with two outs in the seventh. The walk came after Yount's catchable foul popup fell between two fielders. 
Yankees 5, Blue Jays 3 
NEW YORK--Rickey Henderson's two-run single snapped a sixth-inning tie Wednesday night, leading New York past the Toronto Blue Jays 5-3 and _en­ding the Yankees' seven-game losmg streak. 
John Candelaria pitched four-hit ball for eight innings as the Yankees won for the first time since their opening day. They had been outscored 59-19 coming into the game. 
Cubs 3, Cardinals 2 

CHICAGO--Mitch Williams stymied a ninth-inning comeback, getting his fourth save as the Chicago Cubs beat the St. Louis Cardinals 3-2 Wednesday night for their fifth straight victory. 
Kilgus, 1-1, was backed by four double plays in posting his first Na­tional League victory. Scott Terry, 0-1, took the loss but was hit by a pitch in the third inning and left the game in fourth when his right knee stiffened. 
Angels 5, Athletics 0 
ANAHEIM, Calif.--Kirk McCaskill and Greg Minton combined on ~ three­hitter Wednesday night as the Califor­nia Angels defeated the Oakland Ath­letics 5-0. 
Mark McLemore's two-run triple broke a scoreless tie in the fifth inning. 
McCaskill, 2-0, left the game after the sixth because of stiffness in his left up­per back. He gave up singles in the fourth to Dave Henderson and to Walt Weiss in the fifth while walking three and striking out one. 
Braves 5, Padres 0 
SAN DIEGO--Dale Murphy hit his first home run of the season and drove in his first run, and left-bander Tom Glavine pitched a six-hitter as the At­lanta Braves shut out the San Diego Padres 5-0 Wednesday night. 
Murphy, who was moved out of the cleanup spot to No. 2 in the order, hit his home run in the first inning off starter Dennis Rasmussen. Murphy had gone 27 at bats without a home run or RBI. Lonnie Smith had opened the game with a single and scored just ahead of Murphy, who hit his 335th career home run. 
Mariners 9, White Sox 1 
SEATTLE--Rookie Erik Hanson pitched eight shutout innings and rookie Greg Briley drove in four runs Wednes­day night as the Seattle Mariners beat the Chicago White Sox 9-1. 
Hanson, 1-1, gave up five hits, struck out six and walked two. The 23-year-old right-hander was making his eighth major-league start. 
Phillies 6, Expos 3 
PHILADELPHIA--Mike Schmidt, Von Hayes and Ron Jones homered in the third inning off former teammate Kevin Gross as the Philadelphia Phillies beat the Montreal Expos 6-3 Wednesday night. 
The Phillies, winners of three straight, had four home runs, three doubles and a triple off Gross, 1-1, who was traded to Montreal in the of­fseason. 
After the Phillies took a 2-0 lead in the second on Darren Daulton's third home run of the season, they boosted it to 5-0 in the third with the three solo home runs. 
Gross worked 4 1-3 innings, giving up six runs on seven hits, walking two and striking out six. 
Don Carman, 1-0, was the benefactor 
Reds 3, Astros 1 
HOUSTON--Paul O'Neill hit a three­run double with none out in the ninth inning to give the Cincinnati Reds a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros on Wednesday. 
Astros starter Rick Rhoden and reliever Larry Andersen had combined pn a five-hit shutout over eight innings oefore Dave Smith started the ninth. 
Eric Davis led off the ninth with a single off Smith, 0-1, and advanced to third when first baseman Glenn Davis made a two-base throwing error on Kal Daniels' grounder. 
Giants 3, Dodgers 1 
SAN FRANCISCO--Kevin Mitchell hit a three-run homer off Fernando Valenzuela and Scott Garrelts earned his first victory as a starter in three years as San Francisco beat Los An­geles 3-1 Wednesday night. 
Mitchell's third home run and fourth of his career off Valenzuela went deep to left field on a 3-0 pitch in the first inning as the Giants won two of the three games in the series with the Dodgers. 
Garrelts, 1-0, converted to a starter after having a 15.00 ERA as the closer in exhibition play, gave up three hits and four walks in five-plus innings. It was just his second start, both this season, since he went 5-7 in his first extended stint as a starter for the Giants in 1986. 
' 

Orioles 5, Royals 4 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.--The Baltimore Orioles ended a 15-game losing streak against Kansas City, beating the Royals 5-4 in 15 innings Wednesday night on a sacrifice fly by Mike Devereaux. 
The Orioles last defeated Kansas City on July 26, 1987. 
Baltimore blew a 4-1 lead in the ninth before coming back to win. Joe Orsulak opened the 15th with a single, stole second and moved to third on Cal Rip­ken's fly ball. Devereaux followed with a sacrifice fly to left field. 
Gregg Olson, 1-0, pitched the 14th for the victory after Mark Williamson pitched five perfect innings, getting a double play from his first batter and retiring 14 in a row. 
Steve Farr, 0-1, took the loss. 
=Rm~
SEAFOODii~ 
~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 
SUMMER CAMP 
POSITIONS Counselors: 21+, coed, sleepaway camp, Mass. Berkshires. WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, drama, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, judo, dance, photography, computers, nature, wilderness, model rocketry, guitar, yearbook, woodworking, RN, typist, 
Write: Camp Emerson, 
5 Brassie Rd, 
Eastchester, NY 10707 
or call 914/779-9406 

IllALUMNI .· :·
CLUBS & ORGANIZATJON3 All clubs & organizations must now re-register tor the 1989-90 academic year. Applications 
~CLUBare now available .in the Student Activities Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. Applications include: 
rrJi'll!RS'lJ.9lY IS . ..
1) Registration Form 
2) Funding Request 
3) Office Space Request 
4) Football Concession Stand Request 
Applications deadline is APRIL 19. 
Congratu[ations I on your 
~~~12-2:00 pm FRIDAY LUNCH 
10:00 pm The Blue Light Specials 
engagement! 
'Best wislies 
Love, 

* Closed SAT April 15th 
Your j'riends 
f 

Thursday, April 13, 1989 The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Noon White Center lecture "Serious Juvenile Crime," by Ira Schwartz, Law School Courtroom. 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering lecture "A Shot Through Rocket Plumes, NASP, and All That," by Dr. Paul Marrone, Room 325 Cushing. 
4:15 p.m. Snite Museum lecture "Hollywood and the Heartland," by Maxine Fleckner Ducey, Annen berg Auditorium. 
4:30 p.m. Mathmatics colloquium "Recent Advances in Al­gebraic K-Theory," by Dr. Manfred Kolster, Room 326 Math Building. 
8 p.m. PLS Student-Faculty evening "Shakespeare and the Heritage of Greek Tragedy," by Donald Stump, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
11 :30 a.m. Hospitality Lunch for Women United for Justice and Peace, CSC. 
1 p.m. Baseball vs. Butler University. 
7 p.m. Intervarsity Christian Fellowship Bible Study, Room 317 Lewis Hall. 
7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 202 CCE. 
8 p.m. SUB movie "Cry Freedom," Engineering Auditorium. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Gyro French Bread Pizza Pork Loin Salisbury Steak London Broil Potato Pancakes Baked Ziti Deli Bar 

ACROSS 24 Commotions 1 Home, to some 26 Late author Ayn potatoes 6 Wear well 27 Where The 10 Something to Kingston Trio's 
Charlie rode 
eat, sometimes 14II's after James 31 Niobe, for one or before jar 35 Entre­15 Head or heart 38 Troubled planet condition 38V.IP.'swheels 16 Role tor Jose 39 Antiquity, to Poe Ferrer 40 Houston 17 Goodbye, amigo baseball player 18 Strip 41 Big bird 19 Biblical port 42 Upon 20 Pertaining to 44 Sound from a distance brooder 22 Gives to the 45 Sweetsop press 46 Great fear 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~~ 
..;,...o.;;.;...L;..,;.&,.;;,, 
48 Disconnected 50 A grandson of 
Eve 52 Fender blemish 53 Sped 57 Opposite of 
disassociate 61Jai­62 Malayan 
outrigger 64 Gold, silver or 
bronze object 65 Cripple 66 All tied up 67 French river 68 What to make 
meet 69 Take five 10 Type of tea 
DOWN 
1 Moslem priest 2 Miami's county 3 "-was in the 
beginning . " 4 Cheering words 5 One kind of kick 6lnthe-of 
luxury 1 Maple genus 8 Diaphanous 9 Come up with a 
b1g lie 10 Fortress 11 Beta and 
gamma 12 Fee-taw-fum 

-
13 Miseries 32 Michelangelo 53 Willing and able 
21 Fail masterpiece 54 Arkin or Thicke 
23 Compass dir. 33 Irish patriot 55 Deposited
25 Put into a 34lncite 56 Hindshidey-hole 37 In a corner 58 Summer
27-atime 
43 Bouts before the refreshers
28 Actor Nick from finals, for short 59 ResidenceOmaha 
45 Na'ive created by M.
29 English dynasty 47Yoko-Mitchell
30 Namesakes of comedian 49 Lack of vigor 60 Kind of sch. Johnson 51 Cater to 63 Colony dweller 
0 
mt.. 7H£ 6r/Y 10 T71K£ A t.ON& Wflt.K OFF A 
.5hrJf?T !'Ia{ IWCJ flU& IW OCTlJf'f/5./ 

VIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
BI:Q!j':£ ~\)\~ 'M. To~IG\\TS Slt)R'{ BEDTIM~ 5mR'I \':. 1\\E IS Ctlli.El>, "W\\'1 PADs JO~. I'RI\1\C't. CI-\I!.W\Il'IG ST~'IE.I) S\1-\Gl£."
\ 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

'

---==·=-=======_..., -== == 
0 1980 Chronicle Features D1~tributed by Ufuversat Pres• Syndicate 4-13 
"Just keep him calm for a couple of days .... he's got lockbody." 

Apartheid Awareness Week 
Thurs April13 
Discussion with Mr. Donald Woods, a 
writer whose family, including his five 
year old daughter, was personally 
harassed by the South African 
Government because he published 
editorial attacks on the racial policy of 

Cushing

apartheid -he had no choice but to flee the country. ~~-$2__t_i_c_k_e_t_s_L_a_F_o_r_t_u_n_e__ln_f_o__D_e_s~kl 


-
Sports
page 20 Thursday, April 13, 1989 
Fletch Lives dies in second week of Bookstore tourney 
By BOB MITCHELL "Fletch F. Fletch" rolled on people. But I do think it was a the courts with a pair of tight game up until the last 20
Sports Writer 

rollerskates purchased from points. Maybe the new Fletch 
What is it about the the Salvation Army. Billy Sul­characters would have helped Bookstore Tournament that livan, "Fletch F. Fletch" us." captures the attention of Notre managed to get off six shots Not only did Wednesday's ac­Dame for three weeks in without falling down the entire tion provide entertainment, but spring? Could it be the creative game, but not finding the rim provided the first ever win for names that somehow slip by once. Not only did Sullivan don members of War Pig Revenge. the censors. Or the sheer talent the rollerskates but dressed up Last year, this squad had the that is displayed by the play­as the "modern day shep­dubious honor of being the only ground players who get to dis­hard", putting on a long black team shutout of the tourna­play their talents in a semi­beard and a long nightgown. ment. Who did the War Pig official environment? No, the Sullivan was joined by Revenge take out their aggres­main reason is the antics that Gordo, Mr. Poon, Kareem Ab­sions on? The Revenge out-a handful of teams perform dul Fletch complete with a scored the Dribbling each year during a basketball Lakers' uniform and four-inch Dingleberries, 21-18. The game. afro, and Cocktoastin, all char­Revenge who shot 21 for 87 (24 
Usually that quintet puts acters from the first Fletch percent) were led to victory by aside the notion of winning the movie. And why did they do it? Peter Paraskos, who chipped game, and concentrates on the "Fletch was the best movie in 12 baskets and snatched 
lighter side of the game. ever and it was much better down 12 rebounds. 
On the third day of the first than On Golden Pond,"said "It felt good to win," said round of Bookstore XVIII, Eric "Mr. Poon" Hendrickson Paraskos. "We just wanted to Fletch Lives put on a show that who expressed grief about his score. We didn't expect to win. was undeniably the best of the team's 21-4 defeat to "X". "I We were contemplating just tournament. Emerging from think we were robbed, the rules scoring and then leaving. We Flanner Hall just before their say you have to win by two, and just got lucky." 
6: 15 tip off time, five different we lost by sixteen. We might 
see TOURNEY I page 16

Fletches took the court. take it up with the Bookstore 
Consistency behind the plate 
Junior Ed Lund's .284 average, steady glove spark NO 
By KEN TYSIAC average to give Notre Dame co­the pitching staff has been a ach Pat Murphy a tough com­key factor in the Irish resur­
Sports Writer 

petitor at baseball's toughest gence this year. Notre Dame's 
The Notre Dame Baseball position. staff boasts a 3.43 ERA, while team is on a roll heading into "Ed leads our team through their opponents have allowed today's 1:00 doubleheader defensive consistency," says 6.84 earned runs per game against Butler at Jake Kline Murphy, "We're not the same against the Irish. Field. The Irish have won eight team when somebody else is of their last nine games going behind the plate." "I've worked with most of 
t into last night's doubleheader Senior second baseman Mike these guys for two years now," at Illinois-Chicago, and boast a Moshier agrees. "Defensively, says Lund, "So I think I have 22-6 record overall. Eddie is a fantastic catcher. He a pretty good relationship with No player typifies the suc­is a leader on the field and he the pitchers. I usually have a
f 

cess of the Irish better than handles all the pitchers very good idea of what pitches to call junior catcher Ed Lund. Lund well. They all love to throw to in certain ~ituations." combines outstanding defen­him," says Moshier. 
see LUND I page 14

sive skills with a .284 batting Indeed, Lund's handling of 

.. 
I 
I 

~ 
Junior catcher Ed Lund's .284 batting average has helped the Notre Dame baseball team sport a 20-6 record heading into Wednesday night's double-header with Illinois-Chicago. At this time last season, the 
Irish were 14-12. 
I •
I 

I Funderburke not at IU signings 
-
I Associated Press Saturday, the McDonald's year two years ago. Derby Festival Classic. Indiana officials indicated Guard Todd Leary of state However, Funderburke said they still planned to sign him. champion Lawrence North he still planned to sign with In­"Indiana called a while back signed a basketball letter of in­diana. to get his full name and social tent with Indiana University on "I plan on signing either to­security number, apparently to Wednesday, but another morrow (Thursday) or next type up the letter of intent," Hoosier prospect was a no­week. The reason I didn't sign said Wehrle coach Chuck show. today is my mother wanted me Kemper. "But when he was 
Lawrence Funderburke of to wait until I came home from going to (sign), I don't know." Columbus (Ohio) Wehrle, who the all-star game," Funder­Funderburke, who averaged earlier gave the Hoosiers aver­burke told The Louisville 25.3 points a game as a junior bal commitment, did not sign Courier-Journal. in leading Wehrle to the state 
a letter of intent Wednesday be­The 6-foot-8 Funderburke small-school championship in cause he was in Louisville, Ky., was The Associated Press' 1987-88, was dismissed from the preparing for an all-star game Ohio Division IV player of the team early this past season. 
r 
I
L_

_____________________________________________________________________________________________j 
The Observer 1 
Bookstore basketball action continued Wednesday, but team and not spectacular play made the day notable. Fletch Lives ,....,,,.,,,.~,,., perhaps the most unusual performance in its 21-4 loss to X. 
Hoosier Award needs to change its name 
~hen. someon~ says H_oosie_r, two images jump into my mmd--e1ther Indiana Umvers1ty or the state of Indiana in general. 
Those two images are associated first and foremost with the art of basketball. Indiana is basketball and basketball is Indiana. 
Sorry Tobacco Road. Sorry Adolph Rupp. While others may consider it a game, Hoosiers consider basketball the official state religion. 
If you don't like or play basketball in Indiana, you might as well look for another native state. The big challenge in the Hoosier state is to find a home without a basketball goal in the driveway. 
When it comes to winners in basketball, Indiana has more than its share. 
John Wooden, the winner of more NCAA basketball titles than any other coach in hardwood history, has Indiana ties. The state had four teams advance to the second round of the NCAA tourney this year. 
Greg Guffey 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Indiana high schools and colleges have turned out such greats as Larry Bird, Oscar Robertson, George McGinnis Isiah Thomas and Austin Carr. Even Gene Keady couldn't lose the big one with that team. 
On March 18 more than 100,000 people watched some form of basketball in Indiana. The NCAA Tournament was in the Hoosier Dome in Indianapolis, the Pacers played the Bulls before a sold-out crowd in Indianapolis and high school semistates were played before almost 50 000 fans at four sites throughout the state. ' 
So why in the name of Bobby Knight does Bookstore Bas­ketball persist in giving the Hoosier Award to the worst shooter in the annual tourney? 
It's like giving the Wimbledon Award to the worst tennis player on tour, the Babe Ruth Award to the worst power hitter in the majors, the Augusta Award to the worst golfer on tour and the Vince Lombardi Award to the football coach with the worst record in the NFL. 
A history of the award further confuses the situation. The fir~t Hoosier Award for Gunning debuted in the 1975 tourney, while the name was changed to the Hoosier Award for Ex­otic Shot Selection in 1976. Later, the name was shortened to the present-day Hoosier Award. 
Last year's winner Ooser?) of the award shot 1-of-23 from the field. If an Indiana player shot just 1-of-10 he would find himself sitting next to Knight. A 1-of-23 pe~formance might provoke Knight to search for the infamous chair. 
M~ybe the init~al inventors of the award didn't yet ap­preciate the quality and devotion to basketball in Indiana. No one can now claim ignorance as an excuse for giving this "honor." 
The solution to this problem is really twofold. Part one 
see HOOSIER I page 15 







