
VOL. XXIII NO. 6 MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 4, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
NO to open new foreign study programs in Spain, Japan 
Ortega y Gasset Foundation's headquarters of Toyota is in
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter Program of Spanish Language, Nagoya. Latin American and European Charles said that Notre Dame 
Notre Dame will offer two Studies, according to a press will maintain its 22 year rela­new foreign study programs in release. Toledo is located about tionship with Sophia University Nagoya, Japan and Toledo, 40 miles south of Madrid. primarily through graduate Spain beginning in the fall Once in Toledo students will students in programs such as semester of 1990. be required to take 15 credits the Institute for International 
per semester, including at least Peace Studies. 
According to Isabel Charles, one course each semester in Students in Japan will enroll associate provost and director Spanish language or Spanish or in a mandatory intensive of foreign study progams, both Latin-American literature, ac­Japanese language course and programs are a year long and cording . to the brochure. three or four other courses. designed for sophomores, Students have the option of liv­The Center for Japanese although juniors may partici­ing in a residence hall or with a Studies will coordinate a home­pate with permission. The Spanish family. stay program for Notre Dame Japan program, formerly lo­The Japan program operates students. Some qualified stu­cated at Sophia University in in conjunction with the Center dents from Nanzan will come to Tokyo, moved to Nanzan for Japanese Studies at Nanzan Notre Dame as well. University in Nagoyo, Japan. University. Nanzan is a Catholic 
Prior to studying in Japan University founded in 1949 by "We presented the programs 
The Observer/Gerard Watson 
students must take one year of the Society of the Divine Word. at freshmen orientation and 
How much longer?
Japanese, said Charles. For Robert Riemer, president of students expressed a great deal Spain. students must demon­Nanzan, holds a doctorate in of interest," said Charles. She strate an intermediate level of sociology from Notre Dame. said they will continue to pub­
Students enter the gates of the Joyce ACC early Saturday morn­
proficiency in Spanish. Nagoya is located in the center licize the programs and that in­
ing to purchase tickets for a concert by the group R.E.M. The stu­
The Toledo program will be of Honshu, Japan's main island, terested students should keep 
dents participated in a lottery to determine the order in which they 
made possible by an affiliation midway between Tokyo and 
would purchase tickets for the September 29 show in the JACC. 
between Notre Dame and the Kyoto. The corporate see FOREIGN I page 4 

Freshman Writing Program supported by endowment 
By NATASHA WILSON wanted to honor his professor, Freshmen Writing Program." help enhance and expand sev­velopment workshops on the Senior Staff Reporter said Edward Kline, who will be Kline said O'Malley would be eral projects of the Freshmen teaching of writing, Kline said. the first Frank O'Malley pleased that the memorial gift Writing Program. Every semester at least one ex­The Freshmen Writing Director of the Freshmen will benefit the Freshmen "We are among the pioneers pert on writing instruction will Program is the recipient of an Writing Program. Kline, a pro­Writing Program. "When I first in the United States· in using address the 98 faculty mem­anonymous endowment, de­fessor of English at Notre met (O'Malley) upon joining the computer programs as a bers of the Freshmen Writing signed to support both the Dame, has directed the pro­faculty, he told me that the teaching device to review Program. The first O'Malley teaching and the administra­gram since its inception in the most important thing I'd ever grammar , spelling and other lecture will feature Barbara tion of the program. fall semester of 1977. do here is teach freshmen," the writing skills," he said. "Now Weaver, dean of University 
The gift memorializes Francis "The gift will support the director recalls. The endow­we'll be able to purchase addi­College at Ball State University (Frank) O'Malley, who was for salary of the director and will ment, in fact, requires the di­tional computer programs on on October 9. two generations of students provide a discretionary fund to rector to teach one freshmen the writing process to comple­Kline said the program will one of Notre Dame's most fa­enrich the program," said English course every semester ment the material freshmen use some of the money to pur­mous and admired faculty Michael Loux, dean of the in honor of O'Malley's commit­learn in the writing courses." chase additional resource ma­members. The donor of the College of Arts and Letters. "It ment to instructing first year The endowment will also sup­terials for the program's writ-undisclosed amount is a former was also permit the director to students. port the O'Malley Distinguished student of O'Malley who devote all of his time to the Kline said the endowment will Lecture Series and faculty de-see ENDOW I page 5 
U.S. military aid starts arriving in Colombia 
Associated Press 
Alfonso Amaya Maldonado, said the C-130s "will be used in BOGOTA, Colombia -The the fight in which we are en­United States on Sunday began gaged ... to re-establish order." shipping a $65 million package The high-tailed C-130s can of military aircraft and take off and land on 3,000-foot weapons to help Colombia fight runways, even those with no its war against powerful co­paving, and presumably could caine empires. be used in raids on remote 
coca-leaf plantations and clan­
• Battle of nerves rages in destine cocaine-refining labora­tories. By contrast, passenger
Medellin/ page 5 
jets such as 747s and DC-lOs need runways of 9,000-10,000 
Also Sunday, President feet. Virigilo Barco fired the chief of Also on their way to this the anti-drug effort in Medellin, South American country, ac­the headquarters for many of cording to the Pentagon, were Colombia's drug traffickers. A five UH-lH transport heli­source said he was ousted for copters and eight A-37 recon­having dealings with drug naissance jets. The A-37s can lords. be outfitted with machine guns 
Two U.S. C-130B transport and rockets. planes arrived in the capital to­The United States also has day, along with other equip­promised Colombia rifles, pis­ment Washington is sending to tols, machine guns, rockets and Colombia. grenades -even bulletproof 
U.S. Ambassador Thomas vests fnr Colombian officials McNamara, at a Bogota mili­and judges who prosecute drug tary air base where the trans­traffickers.


Bomb attack 
ports landed, said the big jets The government gave no rea­"are in excellent condition and son for removing police Col. should serve the Colombian Antonio Sanchez as chief of a 



A Colombian army soldier at a gas station that was bombed early Saturday that killed one person and injured 79. The blast was set next to the newspaper El Espectador. Last week the cocaine cartel declared war on  armed forces for many years." The commander of  special  4,000-member  anti- 
the Colombian government as a result of their efforts to seize cartel members' property.  Colombia's  air  force,  Gen.  see COLOMBIA I page 5  

----~-----------------~~ ~ ~-~ --~ 
Monday, September 4, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
WORLD BRIEFS 



Old-fashioned chivalry
Thousands of blacks marched, picnicked and waded at a "whites-only" beach Sunday near Durban, South Africa. Police made at least 58 arrests, but waited more than two hours before 
faces modern problems
breaking up the protest. The crowd, estimated at 5,000 to 
10,000, stretched for more than a mile along the shore, the biggest beach protnst nver in South Africa. 
Three of the four Roman Catholic cardinals who signed an agreement with Jewish leaders to move a convent away from thn Auschwitz death camp said Sunday the pact must be car­rind out. In a statement, the French and Bnlgian church leaders said Cardinal Josef Glemp, the primate of Poland, "could only have been speaking for himself' -not for the church -in sug­gesting a renegotiation of the accord. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Half of Americans say workers are better off with unions than without, but more people regard management favorably than view unions favorably, a poll has found. Many respondents in the Media General-Associated Press poll saw unions as weakening, and few objected to that trend. Still, by a 49 percent to 31 percent margin, they said workers are better off with a union than with­out one. 
Former President Carter. in the mode of his Camp David triumph, is staging talks in Atlanta this week between the Ethiopian government and Eritrean rebels on the 28-year-old war that has killed hundreds of thousands. "In the history of political affairs, the most significant single step is the first meeting," Carter said last month in announcing the talks. 
Areas of social concern -child care, minimum wage, parental leave and greater opportunities for the disabled -will be among the issues facing Congress when it returns this week, but no one is predicting quick action. Child care legislation, the issue that became a focus of the 1988 presidential campaign, has passed the Senate. The bill calls for direct grants to child care providers and would establish non-binding federal guidelines. But in the House, a companion bill is embroiled in a dispute between two committees with jurisdiction over it. 
Country singer Willie Nelson said he's in the battle to help farmers "for the duration" as he announced his fourth Farm Aid concert will be held somewhere in the Midwest next spring. Nelson is founder and chairman of Farm Aid Inc., which has raised $12 million with three concerts to support family farmers in the United States. He said he intends to continue holding Farm Aid concerts until the farm crisis is over. 
Although Jack Nicholson is not moving in with her, ac­tress Anjelica Huston reportedly paid nearly $2 million for Hichard Chamberlain's house, which the actor is giving up to move to Hawaii for his new TV series "Island Son," the Los Angeles Times reported Sunday. "Miss Huston will live in her new home without Jack Nicholson, her boyfriend of several years," her real estate agent, Joe Coons, was quoted as saying. "When I asked her why they lived apart, she said, 'It just works out better that way."' Miss Huston recently finished a movie with Woody Allen and will attend this month's Emmy Awards ceremonies as a nominee for her role in the miniseries "Lonesome Dove." 
President Bush was called on to deliver his own im­promptu sermon at church in Kennebunkport, Maine Sunday and promptly went out and caught a fish -the first of his vacation. "The jinx is broken!" a jubilant president exclaimed as he came ashore with a two-foot-long bluefish. He had started the day at St. Ann's Episcopal Church where the Rev. Laman Bruner Jr., after his own sermon, turned the pulpit over to the president, who told his fellow parishioners he was ready for the end of summer. 

WEATHER 

Cloudy 

Sunny today, with a high near 80 degrees. Getting cloudy later in the day, with a chance of thundershowers after midnight. Cloudy Tuesday, with a small chance of rain. Highs Tuesday will be in the mid-80s. 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
"Guys at Notre Dame are so rude. What ever happened to chivalry? Where are the guys who threw their coats over puddles and spent evenings serenading their girlfriends?" remarked a friend of mine at dinner the other night. 
All I could muster up in defense of males at Notre Dame was the tired cliche, "Don't you think you're being a little demanding? Besides, chivalry is not dead." 
"No, I hate to disappoint you, but it died years ago," she rnplied. 
Now I was on the spot. I wasn't prepared to defend ye 'ol' clichn. Aftnr a few silent snconds all I could come up with was, "No, it's still around; it's just harder to find. Modern society complicates it too much." 
That, thank God, was enough to satisfy her for the duration of the meal. I don't know why she didn't ask, "How do you mean 'complicates' it?" It's just as well, because I didn't have an answer for it. 
With the thought of chivalry still on my mind, I made an effort to open a door for my companion on our way out of the dining hall. I was confronted with the dreaded double-door dilemma: how do you open the first set of doors without running or having the woman wait? 
All of a sudden I realized I had a reason why chivalry is more difficult today -doors probably weren't as close together in the old days. Two days went by without further examples of the problems of chivalry, and I was giving up hope of finding more. That night, however, I hit a gold mine. 
Some friends and I went out for dinner with our dates before an SYR. Upon arriving at our table, I pulled out the chair for my date. After that show of chivalry I tried to push the chair in, but it wouldn't move. I'm hardly accusing my date of being heavyset, but she obviously didn't realize that it would be of immense help if she did not let all her weight rest on the chair. I had found my second reason -women today arn not as prepared for chivalrous deeds. 
After dinner, I paid for both of us. I was happy to do it. All of a sudden I realized what a long-term financial commitment a long-term girlfriend would be in college. I'd have to pay for a lot of meals and flowers if I wanted to treat her thn way I thought she desnrved. 
In the middle of my financial sorrow, 


OF INTEREST 
Senior class picnic rescheduled to to­day due to rain-out. Seniors mix and mingle on Holy Cross Field Monday, September 4, from 5 to 7 p.m. OJ and free food. 
Pre -Law Meeting for seniors today at 
6:30 pm in the Hesburgh Memorial Library Auditorium. Dean Link of the Notre Dame Law School will speak to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's seniors preparing for or considering a law school education. Attendance is important. Dues will be collected for the Pre-Law Society and materials will be distributed. 


'I was getting carried away with this new interest in being chivalrous.' 
Chris Donnelly 
Editor-in-Chief 

realized that I had found reason Number Three: college students cannot afford to be overly chivalrous, thus making chivalry rarer than some guys would like. 
I was getting carried away with this renewed interest in being chivalrous. Women were really charmed with the extra attention. 
About two days later I discovered problem Number Four. By this time I'd become overzealous in my attempts to be chivalrous. I spotted a woman carrying a large load of bags and I offered to help carry them. 
"What, do you think women are inferior to men?" she said curtly. I was taken aback. "I was just trying to help," I said in my defense. She only said, "Oh, so you think women are weaker than men." 
It was no use. I had run into an avid feminist, although I must admit she probably didn't need help from me. From then on I was more wary of what I did and for whom I did it. Whose dinner do I pay for? This was yet another difficulty with being chivalrous; you don't know how some women will respond to your actions. 
A week had passed and I found my myself walking back from dinner with the girl who had started this whole chivalry problem. As we entered her dorm I opened the first set of doors for her, and I just made it to the second set without looking rushed. Despite our conversation a week ago, she didn't seem to notice this act of chivalry. After we were inside she turned and said, "My girlfriends and I were discussing your remark about chivalry the other day. What do you mean by 'more complicated'?" 
"Well, let me tell ya ... " 
This column appeared in The Observer on Nov. 11, 1987. 
Volunteer tutors are needed immedi­ately for elementary and high school "at risk" students, on Tuesdays, 6:00 to 7:00 pm, September 5 through December 5 in Madeleva Hall. The orientation meeting is September 4, from 6 to 7 pm in Room 324 Madeleva Hall, St. Mary's College. If unable to make the meeting call Sue Bryant 284-4126 or 284-4485. 
Seniors Going to Cancun: Final pay­ment is due TODAY . Payments can be made in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. Questions? Call Michele Feick at 283-4109. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 

The Observer (USPS 599 <'-4000) IS published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacatior, p&riods. The Observer is published by students ot the Umversity of Notre Dame and Samt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wr~llng The Observer 
The Observer is a mernber of The Assoc1ated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 
Design Editor~~·· . ·····~~ ......... Kathy Gliwa 
Design Assistant. ... Wendy Cunningham Typesetters.~. ······~~·············Patrick Daleiden News Editor ................................. Tim O'Keefe News Copy Editor.~ ............. Matt Gallagher Sports Copy Editors ..... Steve Megargee ........................................................... Theresa Kelly Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Dave Bruner Accent Editor ...................... Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ............ Paige Smoron Accent Designer ..................... Alison Cocks NO Day Editor ............................Janet Herold Photographer .................................. Pat Kusek Ads Designers ... ~ ....................... Mindy Breen ..................................................................Val Poleno .............................................................. Anita Covelli ...................................................... Shannon Roach 
...................~~-~~~ ..~;~·~~~;..................11 Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
ll 
Today.lslauraS.sblrthday. Call her up 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offl"ces 314 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way • Laura,we do expect to see you dancing LaFortune 
on pool tables tomght. • 

Question: How do you reach over 
12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 
Monday, September 4, 1989 
WORLD WAR II: 50 YEARS LATER 
British, French mark WWII anniversary 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Britons lis­tened to declarations of war on the radio. swapped sto­ries and went to church to forgive their former enemies on Sunday, the 50th anniver­sary of Britain's entry into World War II. 
France marked the an­niversary of its declaration of war against Germany in a brief, subdued ceremony be­neath the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. 
At 11:15 a.m. in Britain, the British Broadcasting Corp. replayed Prime Minis­ter Neville Chamberlain's ra­dio announcement that Bri­tain had declared war on Germany, exactly 50 years to the minute after it first aired. 
"This morning the British ambassador in Berlin handed the German govern­ment the final note stating that unless we heard from them by 11 o'clock that they were prepared at once to withdraw their troops from Poland, a state of war will exist between us," Chamber­lain told the nation .. 
"I have to tell you now that no such undertaking has been received and that con­sequently, this country is at war with Germany." 
Also broadcast on radio and television was a speech by Adolf Hitler attempting to justify the war and remarks by 13-year-old Princess Eliz­abeth-now Britain's queen -expressing sympathy with children evacuated from London for safety from the expected bombing raids. 
In Coventry, which endured the longest single bombing raid in Britain during the war, 500 people gathered in a new building next to the ruins of a 700-year-old cathedral to pray for their 
see WWII I page 4 

Happy 21st! 
Leslie Astorga 

Love, Mom, Dad, Mack& Holly 
The Observer page 3 

The Observer/Gerard Watson

Monk mass 

Students who participated in Summer Service Projects this past summer listen to a mass Saturday given by University President Father Edward Malloy. The Summer Service Projects are sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. Former participants were involved with day long activities Saturday, in­cluding the mass, a lunch and workshops. 
Baby panda dies two days after birth 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The fifth cub born to giant panda Ling­Ling died Sunday after 39 hours of fighting an infection transmitted from its mother, but disappointed zoo officials said they haven't given up hope for a successful birth. 
As her human handlers recounted Ling-Ling's latest travails at a news conference, the black-and-white animal sat in her nest cradling apples put there in place of her missing baby. 
The never-named tiny cub, weighing only 3.1 ounces, was born prematurely Friday at the National Zoo and taken from its 250-pound mother six hours later because of concern of infection. 

Zoo officials said the cub, a male, first began showing signs of strength, but then weakened despite around-the-clock efforts by zoo veterinarians as well as from pediatric experts enlisted from nearby Children's Hospital. 
The cub was placed in an incubator, fed a special formula through a tube into its stomach and given antibiotics to fight the infection, officials said. 
"Every effort was made to pull this cub through its illness," said zoo director Michael Robinson. 
At one point, when zoo officials managed to suc­cessfully separate the cub from a sedated mother, Robinson recalled, "I thought we'd won." 
But Mitchell Bush, chief veterinarian at the zoo, said the cub's survival was an uphill struggle because of the premature birth and the infection. During most of its 39 hours of life the care given the cub was similar to what a prematurely born child would 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••receive. 

SHENANIGANS 

Notre Dame's Singing & Dancing Ensemble will be holding an interest meeting Wed., Sept. 6th 7:00p.m. 204 0' Shag· For more information, stop by our booth at Student Activities Night or call Julie x2645, Kevin x2325 
Bush said there had been concern from the start that the cub might have caught an infection from its mother, which has had problems periodically with a kidney infection since 1983 and had a reoccurrence only a week ago. The tiny cub's chances of sur­vival were reduced further because it weighed only about three-fourths of what a normal panda cub would weigh, officials said. 
Three of the four previous cubs born to Ling-Ling also died of infection shortly after birth with the longest-living cub 
-~··••••••••••••••••••••• surviving for four days in 1987. 
page 4 


Foreign 
continued from page 1 
their eyes and ears open for 
more information. 
A meeting about the Toledo 
program will be held on 
Tuesday, September 5, at 4:30 
p.m. in Room 114 in O'Shaugnessy Hall. Angel Delgado-Gomez, associate pro­fessor of Romance Languages and Literature, the on-campus coordinator for the program, will be present to answer ques­tions, said Charles. Charles and students who participated in an experimental version of this program will also be present at the meeting. 
Father George Minamiki, as­sociate professor of modern and classical languages, is presently teaching Japanese to the students who are consider­ing traveling to Japan. 
"Both will be highly competi­tive programs as there is a limited number of students we will be able to accept in each of them," said Charles. 
With the addition of the Spain program, Notre Dame now of­fers eight foreign study pro­grams. 
Charles said that there will be 
JUST WHEN YOU NEED IT 
The Navy has 530.000 or more 10 help you finish }'OUr Jasl IWO years of college. 
The Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (NROTC) Two­Year Scholarship Program can pay your ruition, rextbooks and instructional fees, plus give you a monthly $100 taX-free allowance during your las! 20 momhs of mllege. 
Upon graduation you'll be commissioned a Navy officer and er~oy the benefiiS and opponunities offered, such as advanced education in any of the Navy's high-rech fields. 
NROTC rwo-year scholarships are highly competitive. Applications must be tumed in early in your sophomore year. For more information, see or call: 
LT Dan Cochran 
239-7274 


NAVY ROTC 
You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 
The Observer 


Monday, September 4, 1989 
near Leeds, northern England. 
Surrounded by old pho­
WWII 
continued from page 3 

former enemies. The cathedral was destroyed and 568 people died during an 11­hour German raid on the city center on Nov. 14, 1940. Through a British Broad­casting Corp. linkup, the worshipers came together with those in a church in Dresden, East Germany. to offer forgiveness to one another. Dresden was bombed and up to 135,000 people killed by the Allies in 1945. Thirty veterans, including George Booth, the first British serviceman to be captured by the Germans, swapped wartime stories at his housing complex 
tographs, gas masks and other memorabilia, the veterans recounted their experiences. 
"It was a very short-lived war for me. It was very frustrating being in a camp without a gun or anything," said Booth, 79. "I am in a unique position, being the first to be captured and, though I don't feel proud about it, I'm not ashamed." 
Booth was the navigator of a Blenheim bomber that crashed into the Kiel Canal only 12 hours after Britain was at war. He was picked up 40 minutes later by a German launch and 
spent  the  next  six  years  in  
German  prisone r-of-war  
camps.  

Come and join The Macri's Deli Family 
FUN ENVIRONMENT WITH OPPORTUNITY TO GROW Positions Available: cooks dishwashers busboys hostesses 
work days or nights! 
Apply in person Located in University Center 

Get off to a good start... Buy that special person a flower. Irish Gardens 

is OPEN Mon.-Sat. 12:30-5:30 in basement of LaFortune 
ELED Majors Meeting 
Mandatory For .aiLcurrent and new students of the Department. 
Sept. 7, Thursday at 6:30-8:00 P.M. Science Building, Room 105, Saint Mary's 
We need students to work Movie Ticket Box 
Thurs., Fri., Sat., nights 8:00 & 10:15 I $4.00/hr. 
Pick up applications 2nd floor LaFortune 
S.U.B. Due 9/5 
several informational meeting for other foreign studies pro­grams. A meeting for the Tianjin, China program will be Tuesday, September 5, at 4:30 
p.m. in the satellite room in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Charles said that she doesn't expect any problems with the China pro­gram in light of the recent crackdown, but that she would deal with the problem when it arose. 
A meeting for the Mexico City, Mexico program will be held on Wednesday, September 6, at 
4:30 p.m. in Room 109 O'Shaugnessy Hall. Charles 
On Wednesday, September 6, at 4:30 p.m. in the Satellite room of O'Shaughnessy there will be a meeting for the Jerusalem program. Sister Mary Aguinn O'Neill who is the on-site coordinator for the program will be present, said Charles. Students who partici­pated in the program last semester will also be in atten­dance. 



Be an 
ambassador 
of the Admissions Office 
to your high school as part of the Undergraduate Schools Committee 

•
IDe 
For More Information ... Call Tim X2346 or Chelsea X3391 

...Or stop by the Admissions Office( 113 Admin. Bldg.) 
ADWORKS 


Monday, September 4, 1989 
The Observer 
a e 5 

bosses, also on Sunday took a helicopter flight over the wreckage of the Bogota news­
Colombia Daily blasts rock Medellin as war 
continued from page 1 
paper El Espectador, which on drug unit in Medellin. A source Saturday was bombed by drug­
of nerves 'in Colombia continues 
at national police headquarters in Bogota, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said he was ousted for dealing with drug traffickers. 
Sanchez was the third colonel fired from the national police in a crackdown on corruption that began in January. He was replaced by Col. Humberto Canero Maldonado. 
Barco, who has vowed not to back down from the cocaine cartel terrorists. 
Eighty-four people were in­jured in the blast. The paper printed a smaller edition from a makeshift newsroom. 
"We will continue moving forward!" the front page pro­claimed. "In its 102 years, El Espectador has always gone ahead, overcoming all adversi­ties," said the paper, whose publisher was assassinated in 1986 by drug traffickers. 
Don't miss this golden opportunity to save on a Balfour College Class Ring! • $300FF lOK • $500FF14K • $700FF18K Hurry! Offered for a limited time only! 
See your Balfour Representative 
During "Ring Week" Tuesday through Friday September 5th-8th from 10:00-4:30 
In the Haggar College Center Game Room 

Deoosit Required 219/872-0346 
I 
I 
I 
I 
II 
Ii1!1 
Associated Press 
MEDELLIN, Colombia -In the cocaine capital 'Of the world, the new war between the government and traffickers is one of nerves as well as fire­power. 
An industrial city of 2 million, cradled in lush green moun­tains, Medellin suffers almost daily bombings and burnings by the henchmen of drug bosses in a war that began with the Aug. 18 assassination of a presiden­tial candidate. 
But bloodshed since that killing has been limited to un­lucky bystanders in the past two weeks. Property, not peo­ple, has been the principal tar­get, fear the main weapon. 
The city continues to function, its shops opening each day and its workers and businessmen filling the streets, factories and offices. But fear and tension is pervasive. 
"There's no direct con­frontation, but instead subver­sive actions . . . sporadic and surprising," Mayor Juan Gomez Martinez said. "It's harder to combat them than in a regular war." 
The government has arrested thousands of people and seized hundreds of millions of dollars in assets since it declared a 

NEWS ANALYSIS 
crackdown on drug kingpins on the same day presidential hope­ful Luis Carlos Galan was as­sassinated. Drug traffickers have responded with more shootings and bombings. 
In response to the traffickers' campaign of terror, Martinez last week imposed a strict 10 p.m.-to-6 a.m. citywide curfew. He concedes that the measure was as much psychological as tactical. 
"The curfew is not just to prevent the attacks, the bombs," he told foreign re­porters at a news conference. "It's also so that the entire community knows that we have a problem." 
For a city like Medellin, it's a drastic measure. The towns­people are known for a kind of restless joy of life and the night has always been vibrant, with the bars and dance halls full of loud music and people, drinking shots of the licorice-flavored local "aguardiente." 
For the moment, the party's over. 
At 10 p.m. the city's 4,000 po­lice aided by thousands of army soldiers take over the streets, armed with automatic and 
In future years, the director said, the Freshmen Writing
Endow 

Program will publish an annual continued from page 1 magazine featuring literature 
written by students in freshmen ing reference library and video English courses. He said the tapes for the audio-visual li­program will also sponsor a brary. competition for the best papers 
Wllt=i.,.,64
Oh no, they're back! 
/ 
~~­
L "J~I·­
JI~ 
1 South Bend, IN 46637 
I I I I I I 

semi-automatic rifles. They round up curfew violators at gunpoint, hustling them down the streets to gathering points and packing them into city dumptrucks headed for a vol­leyball arena. 
Most of the violators are ill­dressed, sometimes barefoot drunks and tramps, as well as male and female prostitutes. Many stumble and sway, their eyes glazed by cheap alcohol. They yell and whistle derisively at their military guards, creat­ing a din in the tin-roofed arena. 
The violators are held until the curfew ends at 6 a.m. Those found to have criminal charges pending are shipped to the po­lice jailhouse. The rest are set free. 
"This is just what the city needed. Now there are no more wounded, there are no more dead at night," said an army officer. "Now the people can sleep in peace." 
But real peace has remained elusive. The morning after the curfew first took effect Wednesday, a bomb strapped to a juice vendor's bicycle blew up in broad daylight. Several people were injured. 
written by freshmen. 
The Freshman Writing pro­gram includes writing courses in which every freshman stu­dent at Notre Dame is en­rolled.The program, which was established nine years ago by the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, consists of four di­VISions: English 109, "Composition and Literature," Freshmen Seminar 180, Humanities Seminar 185-186, and, new in the 1983-84 aca­demic year, English 195, "Honors Seminar." 
O'Malley died in 197 4 after serving 42 years as a member of the University's English de­partment, where he specialized in the relationship between re­ligious belief and literary imag­ination. His "Modern Catholic Writers" and other English courses were among the most popular classes at Notre Dame, Kline said. O'Malley , he said, was a "perfect gentleman in the 19th century tradition. He was a perfect role model for stu­dents." 
A scholar of Middle-English, Kline joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1966.An early user of computer technology in lan­guage study and teaching, Kline has published articles on the teaching of writing aided by computers. He has served on several University committees and is president of the Indiana Teachers of Writing organiza­tion for 1988-89. 
Kline's other professional in­terest is church music. Since 1966, he has been director of music at St. Matthew's Cathedral in South Bend, and he served as acting chairman of Notre Dame's Department of Music during the 1987-88 aca­demic year. 

Viewpoint 
Monday, September 4, 1989

page 6 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Edltor-ln.Chlef Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Edltor.................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Edltor....................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor........................... .John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Edltor.............................. Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector ................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Edltor.......•....... Christine Gill Controller............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob· jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

JIM BORGMAN AND FRIENDS 

That's Jim Borgman at his art table surrounded by his 
friends. And a few enemtes. Jim is a unique and exciting political cartoonist. And he's not concerned with who his friends are. He is concerned with what's right, wrong, interesting. 
Jim Borgman 
appears two or three times weekly in Viewpoint 
DOONESBURY 
Y5T C!FJJIAL1TY Hh5 !T5 UM/75, ANCJ CW~MCRNIM3 TH~YARE UN/3XPee!WiY 7!35TW... 
LETTERS 

Big Brothers/Big Sisters rewards its participants 
Dear Editor: 
Tuesday night is Activities Night for the fall semester at Notre Dame. One of the many worthwhile activities available is Big Brothers/Big Sisters, an organization which matches a Notre Dame student with a child in the South Bend area who comes from a single-par­ent family. The intent of Big Brothers/Big Sisters is to pro­vide another source of adult influence in the child's life, thus helping to establish a certain balance of adult guidance nor­mally present in a two-parent family, all the while giving the child opportunities to learn and have fun. 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters sponsors many activities for the children and their matches such as: annual trips to educa­tional facilities like the plane­tarium and museums in Chicago, a picnic for the matches and their families, a Christmas party and magic show, pizza parties, and Bowling for Kids' Sake. The South Bend Jaycees even pro­vide some financially disadvan­taged kids with gift certificates at the University Park Mall, so they can buy their families Christmas presents. 

In addition to the sponsored activities, the matches spend time alone together as well, horsing around or just talking. The organization asks that the matches spend at least five hours together per week. 
My little brother, Tabias, and I have been matched for over two years. Before he entered the program, Tabias had never eaten a banana split, never played pool, nor had he been to a bowling alley or movie the­atre, much less a museum, aquarium, or zoo. Coming from a poor, single-parent family, it was just never possible. The program has not only given Tabias the chance to do all these things, but it has also given him a male influence in his life, something he has not had since his father left. 
The benefits the program has afforded Tabias are obvious. The rewards I have received are more subtle. Big Brothers/ Big Sisters makes me realize how much I take for granted con­cerning my family and my life here under the Dome. It makes me appreciate the opportunities I've had, and inspires me to help the disadvantaged. Finally, it is a great joy to see the wide smile of a little kid who is happy because he is doing something for himself or his family that he never dreamed was possible. 
There is a long list of children waiting to get into the pro­gram; they only need to be matched to someone who cares. If you're interested, talk to us Tuesday night. 
Norm D. Smith Vice President Big Brothers/Big Sisters September 3, 1989 

Honor Code teaches what is important in life 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in reference to the Honor Code at the University of Notre Dame. There has been much criticism of the code as being im­plemented by the administra­tion rather than by the stu­dents and therefore not wanted by the students. The major issue is student apathy toward turning in a fellow student who cheats. This is not the goal of the Honor Code. The goal is to make students responsible for their own actions. If all students maintain their own honor, the system works. When you cheat on your own honor, you cheat yourself. 
My criticism of the Honor 
.,, /AJH&N, MN6H3R. [)AJL-Y51A/IM, THe fiRST LA!7tf3Nt1){)NTei<S A M05r fJNIQCUI)Me GUe:iT... 

Code is that it does not depend on students' honor, as it should. Professors should not instruct students where to sit, print two or more different versions of the tests, or moni­tor tests. The University should trust the students more, and put the responsibility on the students. 
Sure, some students may still cheat and get away with it. But what they get away with now will hurt them later in life. They may get a better grade and get into medical or law school be­cause of it, but what they get out of it now will come back to haunt them. When a patient dies, or you can't answer your kid's calculus question, the A-you got on the intro level class will mean nothing, and you will suffer a different kind of humil­iation than a bad grade. 
The Honor Code simply means study for tests, learn as much as you can to help yourself, and then take the grade you deserve. If you cheat and do better on tests that I, you may get a better job than I, but I'll go farther in life because I've learned, while you've just gotten an A. Some students will still say, "So what?" I say they've got a lot to learn about what is important in life. 
Scott K. Kluge Cavanaugh Hall May 12,1989 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'MOmtN6, M/?5. 8! 
MINI? IFI JOIN YOU'? 
\ 

'It is easy to get everything you want, provided you first learn to do without the things you cannot 
get.' 
Elbert Hubbard 


Accent 
JENNIFER ALBRECHT 
accent writer 
This past spring, I graduated from high school. Another era of my life ended. I was finished with the geekish days of being a freshman, the not-so-much­better-but-more-informed days of being a sophomore, the new­found experience of being an upperclassmen as a junior, and the glorious days of being the cool class of seniors. This vi­cious cycle had finally ended because I was leaving for col­lege. 
....--.: College: I had dreamt about it
-
for years. A place where studying is done when either an urge comes on, which is very 

0 rare, or when it absolutely has to be done. A place where one controls their own life and makes decisions without the consent of a parent. A place where the fme art of partying is studied religiously. A place where curfews do not exist. And a place to join thousands of people all screaming for a
THE BIG 
football team that can't be seen because everyone is standing 
Everything was set to go. All my things were stuffed in boxes and packed into the van. I had

DIFFICULT up. 
called all my friends for the last time. My relatives all came to wish me luck and give me ad­vice about surviving the wild yet 
Sometimes getting 
studious life at college. And I 
had happily quit my job. Now 
all we had to do was to get 
there. Easier said than done.
into college isn't 
We departed at 2 p.m. for South Bend and things went down from there. My mother
astough as 
finally realized that she was 
about to leave her first child in 
a savage jungle without her
getting there 
protection and began to panic, grasping at her fleeting moth­erly authority. She made up for 
the four years of motherhood she would be deprived of by ad­vising, tidying, and pestering me. 

At about 2:30, we ran into the typical Chicago gapers' block, a phenomenal traffic jam created by motorists who are more in­terested in looking at an acci­
'China Beach' too close to 'Thirtysomething...' 
Hollywood has a way of beating a topic to death. It's bad enough when the subject JOEBUCOLO matter is fictitious, but it's often revolting when the subject 
To Be Continued... 
is a human tragedy such as 
Vietnam. ABC's "China Beach" 
is only another of Hollywood's 
attempts to "cash in" on the brother who is missing in ac­haps more agonizing to the 
military incident. tion. He tells Cherry her viewers than Vietnam itself. "China Beach" airs brother is fine and that if she'll The plots unravel slowly and Wednesdays at 9 p.m. It pre­help him escape, he'll get her in each episode's climax, if one sents a group of young men touch with her brother. Cherry exists, is evident to only the and women coping with life takes pity upon the man and, most careful of viewers. during the crisis. Dana against the advice of K.C. Another problem with the Delaney stars as Lieutenant (Mary Helgenberger), decides show is the way it trivializes the McMurphy, the uplifting driving to help him--until she discovers situation in which the charac­force who keeps her friends he's been lying. ters find themselves. They are sane and calm in the midst of Another plotline presents the in the midst of one of history's military turmoil. Other charac­cast members trying to help most brutal and terrifying con­ters are Cherry (Nan Woods), Beckett fight depression. They flicts; yet viewers may often the show's pacing and intrigue. an innocent volunteer, Beckett take him to the beach and en­wonder if they're watching The dialogue is so predictable (Michael Boatman), a young courage him to date; but it's a Vietnam or "thirtysomething... " and trite--and the action so man coping with the mental young Vietnamese girl who fi­in camouflage. So many of the slow--that wonderful music is stresses of war, and Lulu nally breaks down the emo­plotlines involve romantic rela­used to keep the viewers tuned (Concetta Tomei), a realistic tional walls surrounding tionships and personal prob­in. If audiences want good mu­and strong-willed woman. Beckett. lems that one would not be sic along with--not in place of-­
One episode presents a dis­In theory--and perhaps even surprised if the characters good entertainment, they turbed man who wants to re­in the brief synopses presented pulled out some Perrier and should watch "The Wonder turn to America. He decides to here--"China Beach" sounds in­wore paisley. Years." play ofT Cherry's emotions by teresting; however, the pro-It's obvious that even the claiming he's a friend of her gram is actually a bore, per-producers are concerned about The cast of "China Beach" is 
a e 7 

dent than driving. Their curios­ity results in a slower rate of travel, approximately five miles per hour. Thus, the traffic jam. So, we backtracked into the city to find another alternative. To my dismay, it still took two ex­tra hours. I began to wonder if I would ever get to college. Things couldn't get worse, but they did. 
Eventually, we were exactly 30 minutes away with exactly 30 minutes to go before the admissions office closed for the day. We pulled into a gas sta­tion to refill. My dad pumped the gas, my mom paid, and my sister and I ran to the bath­room. These tasks took two minutes flat altogether, yet this wasn't fast enough for my par­ents, who wanted to get to the business office before it closed. 
My sister and I ran out of the bathroom to find our van nowhere in sight. It didn't take long for us to figure·out that we had been left behind. We were stranded. 
Would I ever make it to Saint Mary's? I thought about the college life I would miss: the parties, the exams, the football games, the freedom. I had never even been given the chance to get to college. 
Meanwhile, my parents sped to get to the business office be­fore it closed. 20 minutes later and two miles from the exit, my mother turned to ask me which building we should report to for registration. At first she was shocked to find us missing, then she burst into tears. My father started to laugh hysteri­cally. Five minutes later, the of­fice, my dorm, the tollbooths, and the state police were all in search of two teens with blond ponytails. 
About an hour and a half later, our van rolled to a stop in front of us. My mom, still crying, and my dad, still laugh­ing, jumped out. What a first day at college we had had! When we fmally arrived in the Saint Mary's parking lot, I re­minded my dad that it would have been easier to take me to college if I had been in the car. 
-

a good one. There's little doubt they could effectively handle the rage and trauma of Vietnam; however, actors only act out what the writers put into the script. The writers and pro­ducers need to re-evaluate the focus of the show. Is "China Beach" a dramatic portrayal of life in Vietnam or an excuse to put good music and current­day issues in an exotic locale? 


----------------~--~ --~ ---­
page 8 The Observer 
Evert beats Seles in straight sets 
Becker knocks off Pernfors, faces Noah in quarterfinals 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Chris Evert, playing nearly perfect tennis against a teenager who wasn't quite ready for prime time, postponed retirement Sunday and kept her impossible dream of a final U.S. Open champi­onship alive. 
Wimbledon champion Boris Becker, though, struggled again in his bid for his first 
U.S. Open title, losing the first set before taking 27 of 30 points in a crucial stretch to beat Sweden's Mikael Pernfors 5-7. 6-3, 6-2. 6-1. 
Becker's 3 1/2-hour victory put him into the quarterfinals against unseeded Yannick Noah. who upset 1Oth-seeded Albert Mancini 6-3, 3-6, 6-7, 6­3,6-3. 
Evert. 34, looked as youthful in pink and white. with a rose ribbon in her short ponytail, as her opponent, 12th-seeded, 15­year-old Monica Seles. But Evert showed greater patience 
and  precision  to  reach  the  
quarterfinals  for  the  19th  
straight year.  

Evert, the fourth seed and six-time Open winner, moved Seles around the c'lurt like a puppet on a string, sending her chasing balls from corner to corner. in and out, to win 6-0, 6-2. 
ln rallies that sometimes lasted more than 50 shots, Evert matched the moonballs and power strokes of the grunting, squealing Seles, and wore her down with angled and deep shots that frequently kissed the lines. 
"I don't know where it came from," Evert said. "l haven't seen that form all year." 
The only trouble Evert en­countered came in the fifth game of the first set when Seles had six break points on Evert's service. But Evert hung in, while Seles wasted her opportunities with forehands in the net, and capitalized on her first advantage to put the game away. 
"I felt if she had won that game, she would have gotten back in there," Evert said. 
Evert said she felt like Margaret Court, the former Open and Wimbledon champion who was at the peak of her ca­reer when Evert first played and beat her at age 15. 
"Up until two days ago, l didn't expect to win the match, 

Classifieds 
the way I've been playing," she said. 
"When I first saw that I would be playing her, I said, 'Isn't it ironic. It would be my last big match, and I'd lose to her.' Maybe that was fate ... it entered my mind for one sec­ond. All those things made me more determined. I concen­trated well, I moved well. I'm so pleased it happened today." 
Seles, who had said she was worried about the match and might feel sad if she were the one to end Evert's career in major tournaments, didn't play close to her own potential. 
Seles, a left-hander with two­fisted shots on forehands and backhands, certainly was not the player who beat Evert in the finals of a tournament in Houston this year. That match was on clay, this one on a faster hard court. 
"I was prepared to win, I was prepared to lose," Seles said. "I was pretty prepared, going into the match, that everyone would be on her side. I've never been in that situation, so it was a lit­tle strange." 
Seles said Evert "wasn't missing any balls at all. She was hitting hard on every ball. 
Monday, September 4, 1989 


AP Photo 

Boris Becker again struggled Sunday in the U.S. Open, but he managed to defeat Mikael Pernfors in four sets to advance to the quarterfinals. Becker, the Wimbledon champion, will face Yannick Noah in the next round. 
.-M~·--------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. unlil 4 p.m. at the illotre Dame offoce. 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 unlit 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's offoce. Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. An classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES 

STUDENT COMEDIANS all ages . interested in performing for Alumni Sr. Club leave name and number with what you do at 277-3653 or 239 7521 ... 
If you are interested in making close friends and learning more about God through the Bible, then our group is for you. We are lntervarsity Christian Fellowship. an interdenominatioal organization that will have its first meeting on Thursday, Sept. 7 at 7:30PM at a place yet to be announced. Our picnic is on Saturday. Sept. 9 at 2:00. We will meet at the main circle at 1:30. Watch the OBSERVER or call Jim at 271-0456 for more information. 
--------------,..·-------------------­
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS !!1!1!!!111!11!!1 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 
287-4082. 
~-I..OST/FOUNDj 
Lost: Ladies gray leather wallet on Mon. between 9 am & 12 in JACC Hockey Arena. Reward offered. Very important imigration papers. Contace Susan Maxins-277-4469. 
Picked up wrong bag of BOOKS at the bookstore on Wed. 8/30. They were in the cubby holes in the front of the store. Several Archie & Italian books. I have them in my room. Call Jeff Engelmeier x2274. 
LOST HEWLETI PACKARD CALCULATOR MONDAY AUGUST 28 BETWEEN LIBRARY AND PARKING LOT. CALL 239­7308 NANCY. 
WANTED 

University Pizza Delivery is completing their expansion!!' We are now hiring pizza/submakers and delivery drivers (15 positions available). Flexible hours and good pay in a fast-paced. FUN environment. Join the BEST student-run business around. APPLY NOW IN PERSON at University Pizza, 18055 State Road #23. 
WANTED: bass player for the folk­rock band "Life is Elsewhere" Contact Jenny at #2572. 
Can you play piano bar type music,jazz, blues or anything in the coffeehouse type style Alumni Sr. Club wants you .. leave name and number at 277-3653 or 239-7521. 
CAMPUS BANDS CAMPUS ·BANDS........ Alumni Sr. Club wants 
to keep you busy... leave name, 
number and name of band at 277­
3653 or 239 -7521 
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 EXTENSION P-2382H. 
SOUND SYSTEM TECHNICIANS are needed to operate portable sound system. Please inquire at Student Activities Office, 239-7308 
FORRENT~ 

FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, 
AIR, KITCHEN. 5 MINS. NORTH 
CAMPUS. 272-0615. 
2 Bdrm HOME on ND ave.272­
6306 
APT. UTILITIES PAID GOOD 
NEIGHBORHOOD MALE 
PREFERRED 288-0955 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
219-291-7153. 
[ _____FOR SALE__] 
COLOR TV RENTALS 
13-INCH. $50/SEM. $80/YR; 
19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 
25-INCH, $90/SEM. $160/YR 
CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE 
DELIVERY 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­
5959 
COUCH FOR SALE.272-6306 
1980 Triumph TR7 
CONVERTIBLE 
Looks and runs great. Must sell, 
plates expire soon! $2900 
Call Dan 239-7666 
1983 toyota tercel SR5 5 speed am/fm stereo, air, sunroof new everything--call 233-5789 evenings--leave message 
MEN'S UNIVEGA 12 SPD. 
MOUNTAIN BIKE. 2 MOS. OLD. 
287-2440. OFFER. 
LOFT FOR SALE CALL DIANE­2702 
TICKETS 
SB TO HARTFORD. NW AND UAL. 1-WAY. SEPT. 2 AND 6. 239-7603 OR 291-6962. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEEDED: 2 General Admission Tickets for the USC Game and 2 General Admission Tickets for the SMU Game. Please call 259-8215. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 4 TIX FOR Ml STATE! PLEASE CALL #3803 
WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN,4 
NAVY, 4 SMU TICKETS FOR USC OR PITI. 
PH. 419-4335334 EVENINGS. 
HAVE (2) GA TIX PITI & PENN ST. NEED (2) GA USC. BILL (617) 328-6898. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL TIM, FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143. 
NEED 2 USC & 2MICH ST. TIX PLEASE!! X1058 
WANTED-"10" PITI-NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SAT. 10/28/89. PLEASE CALL PAT COLLECT AT (412) 372-3000. 
I'LL BUY YOUR FOOTBALL TIX APPL OR TRADE A SA APPL FOR 2 SOPH OR JR ONES. CALL KATIE AT X1344. 
HELPI Need 3 Mich. St. tix. Plez call Patty X3848 
i WANTED--l
L _.J 
2 GA Tix to the Mich game. vall x3029 and leave a message. 
WANTED: 2 GA TIX FOR MICH. STATE GAME. WILL TRADE 2 STUDENT TIX. CALL 233-8273 ASK FOR BRO. RICHARD HILLIS. 
NEED 4 GA & 2 STU TIX FOR PITIGAME. HAVE 1 USC GAME TIK TO SELL OR EXCHANGE. CALL SARAH 2930. 
Yo Dutch, you got some Pitt tickets (GA's) for me? I need 4. Pick up 
the phone, dial3117 and ask for Steve Curtis. You will be assigned a code# and you will not be asked your name. Pitt sucks. 
NEED 3 GA's for U of MICH! 
Kathleen 283-4930 
1 Need Michgan Tix!! 
Call Dan at 271-9821 
See the ROLLING STONES 
at Alpine Valley on 9/11. 
4 GA's for sale. $33.00 ea. 
Call Quinn after 5 at 291-2918. 
TIX! TIX! TIX! TIX! 
GA'S TO PUR PITI NAVY SMU 
AVAIL NEED TIX TO USC. CALL 
JM 714-792-8919 DAY, 714-792­
5859 EVE. 
714-675-8368 WKND. 
$$$ WANTED: TIX FOR ANY 
HOME GAME. WILL PAY 
TOP$$$!! 
$ CALL KRIS #4340 $ 
CALIFORNIA LAWYER NEEDS 
1-4 GENERAL ADM. TICKETS!!!! 
PLEASE CALL AMBER x2529!!!! 
If you're not gonna· buy your football tickets, I will. Call Dan at 288-5448 
If you're not gonna' buy your 
football tickets, I will, Call Dan. 
288-5448 
NEED 4 GAs AND 1 STU FOR 
MICH ST. WILL PAY$$$! x2966 
I REALLY NEED 2 MICHIGAN 
STATE GA'S. CALL BETH AT 
X4852. 
NEED 2 TIX TO NO-MICH. ST. 
$$ CALL #1899 
NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. ST PLEASE!!!!!! MY UTILE SIS IS COMING OUT + PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF SHE DOES'NT GO. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE TIX! CALL MATI #3489 
PERSONALS 
HiAg 
SITIER NEEDED, PART TIME, KNOLLWOOD AREA, PREFER YOU HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION. CALL 277­8380. 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR CLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
Campus Hard Rock band seeks bassist. Experience a must. Call Glenn at X3064 or Vu at X1809. 

PRE-LAW PRE-LAW PRE-LAW Important meeting for seniors on Mon., Sept. 4 in the Library Aud. at 6:30P.M. 
RIDE NEEDED: Columbus OH leave 9/8 return 9110, will help pay Please call: Laura 284-4322 
CYCLING CLUBI!!!!!!!!I! CYCLING CLUB!I!!!!IIII! 
The N D CYCLING CLUB is currently planning rides for fun. fitness. and sport. Don't be left behind!! Call DARREN BUCK at #3472 for info on upcoming activities and meetings. 
Gears, TREKKIE 
CHAMPS RESTAURANT NOW HIRING WAITRESSES. UP TO $5 HR.+ TIPS. APPLY AT 3421 W. SAMPLE AFTER 3:30 PM. 
ADOPTION. A LOVING ALTERNATIVE. Btl ALUM WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT. LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO ADOPT. EXPENSES PAID. CAN BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT 602-482-0905. 
DAVID WIRTHMAN­THANKS FOR THE NO TOUR! CAN WE DOlT AGAIN...(REMEMBER, I DON'T BEG). LOVE, YOUR MAIDEN. 
THE BEST PEOPLE...SERVING PEOPLE BEST 
The Best hotel in South Bend is looking for the best employees. We seek friendly, hospitable people, not necessarily experienced people. We offer an excellent benefits package, starting wage, advancement potential. and unique working environment. Flexible hours. full and part time available. 
Apply in person, Human Resource Department, Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday 9am­4pm. 
SOUTH BEND MARRIOTI HOTEL 
123 N. St. Joseph St. South Bend, IN 46601 
Body blow. body blow.left and 
SODA POPINSKIIS DOWN! John 
Fletcher has shook up the world! 
THE EIGHT is rockin'! Tyson 
next.. 
. Tune in next semester, sports 
fans. WHEN THE FLETCH BEAST 
RETURNS. Good luck, good 
health. and remember-the Stones 
at Shea October 26. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
WELCOME BACK PICNIC TONIGHT!! 5-7PM HOLY CROSS FIELD 
Mike F. goes both ways!!!! He is now both a Business and Arts and Letter major. 
I NEED A RIDE TO INDIANAPOLIS FRI. SEPT. 8 FOR THE R.E.M. CONCERT. I CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 12:30 PM. PLEASE CALL KELLY 284­4372. 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere. daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 
How're you going to do it? 
...when you need color? 
LESLIE-ANNIE ASTORGA Happy 21st !!! Now you can drink at our wedding! Love, Mollie and Alex 
P.S. Will you be our maid of honor? 
There was an old lady who lived in a shoe. She had so many kids... her uterus fell out, and I mean that, Babe. WATCH OUT JACKSON!!! Oh. yeah ....oh. I gotta have that! ain't leavin' the beach until I've seen him!!!! SEE YOU GUYS NEXT 
SEMESTER 
SENIORS FINAL PAYMENT FOR THE CLASS TRIP TO CANCUN IS DUE TODAY, SEPT 4. ANY SENIOR CAN STILL SIGN UP, MAKING PAYMENT IN FULL $509. 

Monday, September 4, 1989 The Observer 
page 9 

Kansas City punches out Texas in game marred by brawl 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Tex.-Jim Eisenreich keyed a five-run second inning with a two-run single and Bo Jackson homered for the third straight game. The contest included a record-tying seven hit batters and an eighth-inning brawl. 
The Royals won for the 16th time in 19 games and remained 2 1/2 games behind first-place Oakland in the AL West. 
The fight erupted when Texas reliever Craig McMurtry, who yielded five runs in the sev­enth, hit Mike Macfarlane in the ribs. It was the fifth batter hit by a Texas pitcher and the sev­enth in the game, tying the AL record. Macfarlane was ejected after charging the mound. Texas starter Kevin Brown and Drew Hall each hit two batters. 
Yankees 5, Angels 2 
Don Mattingly went 4-for-4, including a single that started a five-run rally in the sixth in­ning. The Yankees won their fourth straight game, tying their longest winning streak of the season. California, which trails Oakland by 4 1/2 games in the American League West, has lost four in a row and 10 of 14. 
White Sox 4, Orioles 2 
Melido Perez held Baltimore to six hits in 7 1-3 innings and Carlton Fisk hit a two-run sin­gle as the Orioles were pre­vented from climbing into a first-place tie in the AL East. They remained one game behind Toronto. 
Thigpen recorded his 29th 
IUIIIM1 ·IIOIAU 
CHICAGO
•
MOTOR
CLUB 
John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative 
New Memberships or Transfers Auto & Property Insurance 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 5922 GRAPE ROAD INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 
save. 
Loser Jeff Ballard, 15-7, who 
had won his last four starts, 
allowed all the Chicago runs in 
the first four innings. 
Athletics 5, Brewers 0 
Carney Lansford doubled and singled and Walt Weiss drove in two runs to support the combined eight-hit pitching of Storm Davis and Gene Nelson. Davis, 16-6, left the game in the seventh inning after twisting his right knee. 
Giants 4, Mets 0 
Matt Williams continued his home run rampage and Don Robinson pitched a seven-hit­ter to lead San Francisco to a 4-0 victory and a three-game sweep of punchless New York. 
Williams' two-run homer in the sixth inning off Bob Ojeda, 10-10, was his second in as many days, 15th of the season and 11th in the last 23 games. Williams also hit 26 at AAA Phoenix for a season total of 
41. 
Expos 4, Dodgers 0 
Kevin Gross pitched a six­hitter and Montreal capitalized on four Los Angeles errors in the first two innings to defeat the Dodgers and run-starved Ore! Hershiser. 
Braves 8, Cubs 5 
The Chicago Cubs saw enough of Atlanta's Jeff Blauser over the last two weekends to last them for a 
intended to reduce the need for overnight lines, according to 
Associate Ticket Manager Jim Bell. 
"Camping over is discouraged," said Bell. "In the mornings, we'll be as flexible as we can be, as long as the lines are orderly and the area is kept clean." 
Tickets 

long time. 
The Braves' third baseman had three singles and drove in three runs, including a key two-run single in a five-run fourth inning that carried Atlanta to an 8-5 victory over the Cubs Sunday. 
Padres 9, Phillies 5 
Rookie pitcher Andy Benes hit a two-run homer en route to his third consecutive vfctory and Benito Santiago hit his second career grand slam as surging San Diego beat Philadelphia. 
Benes' second-inning homer 
gave the Padres a 3-0 lead in the second inning. Santiago's slam capped a five­run seventh against Philadelphia reliever Jeff Parrett. 
tickets for spouses at the student price, but proof of marriage is required . 
Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students who have not received their season ticket applications in the mail should get in touch with the ticket office to receive a copy of the application form. Students who do not have a local (Michiana­area) address should also contact the ticket office for their applications. 

WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
·n,e w,,rds we live ~· 
Newly Constructed Home near Notre Dame 
$84,900 

call Janice Hildabridle 233-6141 233-8883 
ATTENTION PRE-LAW SOCIETY: 
There is an important meeting tonight at 6:30 in the Library Auditorium for SENIORS preparing for the LSAT and Law School. 

__j 
~~~--------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r------------------------------~M~o~nd=a~y~·~S~e~pt~e~m~b~e~r~4~·~19~8~9 
~ ­
SPORTS BRIEFS 
WVFI-AM 640 will hold a meeting for all returning sports staff members at 7 p.m. Monday in the station of­fice. Call x2265 or x2924 for more information. -The Observer 
The varsity golf team will host the Notre Dame Campus Championship Golf Tournament on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 9-10 and 16-17. The tourney is open to faculty, staff. administration and students. Entry forms and more information are available at the golf pro shop. The entry fee is $5 with a deadline of 5 p.m. Monday. The tourney is also an open tryout for the men's and women's teams. -The Observer 
The Observer Sports Department will have a me~ting for returning sportswriters tonight at 8 p.m. and for new writers Tuesday, also at 8, both at The Observer offices, 3rd floor LaFortune. -The Observer 
The South Bend White Sox· defeated the Springfield Cardinals 3-2 in 10 innings Sunday to capture the Midwest League championship. -The Observer 
The Rowing Club will hold a brief meeting for varsity members to collect insurance information and dues at 7:30 
p.m. Monday, Sept. 4, in 118 Niewland. -The Observer 
Lyons Volleyball Tournament will be held Sat~rday, Sept. 9. Signups will be Monday and Tuesday m the cafeteria. The entry fee is $9 for a team of six players with a minimum of two girls. For more information, call x2851. -The Observer 
Blue and Gold cards, a season pass for all sports except football and men's basketball, will be sold at student activities night and at football ticket distribution. The cost of the card is $10. -The Observer 
1COME JOIN THE FUN A '"" THE ANNUAL 
JACC FIELDHOUSE 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. (Enter through Gate 3) · 
SPONSORED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES 10FFICE, CENTER FO SOCIAL CONCERNS, NON-VARSITY ATHELTICS 

Vincent had flown the commis­areas.
Giamatti 


sioner to Martha's Vineyard
continued from page 12 

only hours before Giamatti be­"I know something about Zane, medical examiner for came ill. running things properly," Barnstable County, said "This is a terrifically tragic Vincent said in a recent inter­Giamatti. an overweight chain­day for me," Vincent told NBC view. "I have a background as a smoker, might have suffered on Saturday. "I lost a great chief executive. I have experi­his first heart attack at some friend, I lost a partner, and it's ence dealing with the govern­point several years ago without difficult to talk about the fu­ment." realizing it. ture. I will be happy to serve as 
His death was caused by con­interim commissioner. The executive council, au­strictive coronary heart dis­Vincent, 50, joined Columbia thorized by baseball rules to ease, Zane said. in 1978. During his tenure, assume responsibility for the 
"The manner of death is nat­Columbia released "Ghandi," commissioner's office when ural," Zane said. "Tootsie," and "Kramer vs. needed, delegated authority to 
Giamatti, a former president Kramer." Vincent following a conference of Yale University, died after call. being stricken at his summer Coca-Cola bought Columbia in residence in Edgartown, Mass., 1983 and Vincent continued as A search committee may be on the resort island of head of the company. He also formed to consider candidates Martha's Vineyard. was made an executive vice as the new commissioner. For 
Vincent, a former CEO of president of Coca-Cola, but re­election, a vote of three-quar­Columbia Pictures, and signed last July after he was ters of the major-league clubs Giamatti were close friends. assigned to non-entertainment is required. 
SaintMa~'s College 
NOTRE DAME o I NOlANA 
Department of Communication and Theatre at Saint Mary's College announces Repertory/Performance 
Dance Workshop 
Auditions 
Tuesday, September 5th 7:30pm Regina Hall Dance Studio Variable credit is offered and participation requires a two-semester commitment. For more information contact: Professor lndi Dieckgrafe 284-4643 
aerobics '89 
~  
get fit  
- 

SAMPLE NVA AEROBICS SIGN UP NOW IN THE NVA OFFICE JACC 
SAMPLE ALL CLASSES SEPTEMBER 6-10 TO DECIDE WHICH YOU WOULD LIKE TO PERMANENTLY AITEND. MONDAY SEPTEMBER 11 YOU MUST HAVE REGISTRATION CARD TO PARTICWATE. LOTS OF NEW CLASSES ADDED. SCHEDULES AND DESCRIPTIONS AVAILABLE AT NVA. INSURANCE INFORMATION REQUIRED. 
Monday, September 4, 1989 
The Observer page 11 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
CROSSWORD 


C 1G80 Chronicle F ..tur• Oiltrlbuted by Univerul Pr... Syndlclile 

ACROSS 21 Hazelnuts 52 Young child 32 Put in sod 53 Group of 
1 Yearn musicians
35 Opposite of 
5 Ornamental aweather 55 Shoshonean
scheme 36 M1nk's cousin 57 Rib
10 Spoken 61 Advocate
38 A Gershwin 62 Low-lying fields 14 Small pond 
39 Prison term along a 15 Irregular 
40 Extort
16 P1laf ingredient 
watercourse 11 Star comedians 
41 Ardor 
65 Lascivious look 19 Site of the Taj 42 Posed 
66 Trial's partner Mahal 43 Famous woman 
67 Actor Ray 20 Adolescents of Troy 
68 Taverns 21 Take part 1n a 44 Otherwise 
69 Judgeswinter sport 
45 A Kennedy 
70 Aerie, e.g. 
22 At that t1me 
47 Caused to 23 Oolong, e.g. remember 25 Cravat 50 Notions 
DOWN 
1 Appropriate 2 Foolish one ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Hospital ship 4 River to the 

North Sea 5 More compact 6 Stat for Gooden 1 Those against 8 Japanese 18 Prefix for 34 Passe 53 Underground 
"I'm afraid you've got cows, Mr. Farnsworth." 
seaport penultimate 37 Doctrine bud 9 Put up a 24 Coral island 54 Length x width, 
40 Overdecorated struggle 26 Mongrel perhaps
41 Layer
~~+=-H 10 Eloquent public 21 Bogus 56 French being 
43 Charlemagne's
speaker 28 A series of 58 Aida or Ladd
realm: Abbr. 
11 Position Mel Ott disasters 59 Special offering 
46 Vipers
Join 

played 29 Radical 60 Partners of odds 48 Goes by auto 
-=+:=+=+:-:-t 12 43,560 square 30 Spelling contest 63 Watson of the 
The Observer 
feet 31 Guide 49 List part PGA ~.;.,&.;;;.~ 13Tilt 33 Wipe out 51 Put away 64 Dowry 

COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
iOJR MOM S~RE W~S C\-\E't.PJ\JL 1\.1\S t<'ORN\NG. 
BUZZ MC FLATTOP 
l"JE ~t.'-11:1<. S't.tN 1-\E.R Hl.lt.\M\NG ~D Sr>.S\-\M\NG 
/>.Rcl\JND T\-\t. 1<.\TC\\EN. 
l\K.t. 11-\~T. 
BILL WATIERSON 
1 T\-\\~1<:. MCM 
PVT ME OIJT 1-\t.R£ 11-\\S Ef>..I<.Li 0~ 
PVRPOSE 
9·4 
MICHAEL F. MULDOON 


THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Things that go bump in the night. 
The Student Union Board 
would like to thank 

Kristine Male  Marty Hull  Missy Dillon  
Laura La Velie  Carole Ruff  Catherine  
Emily Chua  John Van Markin  Megan  
Colleen Timons  Joe Adams  

And Especially Kara Lenahan 
-

GREAT JOB ON FALL MALL 
Sports 
Monday, September 4, 1989 

pa e 12 
Irish soccer loses first two games of season 
Ticket sales 

-
I 
I 
r 
I 

Associated Press goals for the Cavaliers. with Notre Uame fell to 0-2 and ward Dave Toural evened the 
this week

senior back Jeff Bynum assist­next meets Detroit on score for the Billikens with a BLOOMINGTON -Freshman ing on both scores. Wednesday. 16-yard blast. 
Special to The Observer

Ben Crawley volleyed a rebound Notre Dame's offense for the Both teams had chances to into the upper left corner late first 20 minutes consisted In other Classic action, end it in regulation. Sommer in the first half Sunday to lead mostly of long balls from the Brilliant saves by goalies turned away a 10-yard shot 
Distribution of season No. 2 Virginia to a 3-0 victory back as they fought a method­Juergen Sommer of Indiana from St. Louis midfielder 
football tickets begins over Notre Dame in thn Adidas­ical Virginia attack. But the and Kevin Johnston of St. Louis Johnny Johnson with less than 
Tuesday at the Joyce ACC Metropolitan Life Soccer Irish settled into a tighter ensured a 1-1 tie for the top­three minutes left. 
ticket booth, with seniors Classic. passing game that brought ranked Hoosiers and No. 12 
getting first shot at 50-yard Freshman Brad Agoos had some good scoring chances. Billikens Sunday afternoon. Then, in the waning moments 
line seats. worked free and attempted a Closer marking in the second of regulation, Snow's brother 
This year's prices for the shot from 10 yards on the left half enabled the Cavaliers to Neither Indiana nor St. Louis Steve found the end of a boom­
five-game home season are side of the goal. but Notre break up that passing game, mounted much of a threat in 30 ing Sommer punt just 5 yards 
$57.50 for Notre Dame Dame keeper Danny Lyons de­forcing the unranked Irish back minutes of extra time as both out, and Johnston made a spec­
students and $77 for Saint flected it up. Crawley, who as­into an offense relying mostly defenses played cautiously. tacular save on Snow's header 
Mary's students. All sisted on Virginia's goal on the long ball. with just three seconds left. 
applications must be Saturday night as the Cavaliers Virginia, which had never Ken Snow staked host 
accompanied by student beat top-ranked Indiana, won in Bill Armstrong Stadium Indiana to a 1-0 lead with 11 The defending national 
identification cards. scored on the deflection with before this weekend, boosted seconds to play in the first half, champion Hoosiers, now 0-1-1, 
Ticket windows will be 

open from 1:30 p.m. to 8 John Maessner and Richie Tuesday match at Longwood With barely two minutes gone the Billikens, 1-0-1, responded Williams added second-half College in Farmville, Va. in the second half, junior for-with 12. 
6:37 left. its record to 2-0 going into a but the lead lasted just 2:16. took 21 shots at Johnston and 
see TICKETS I page 9 
Vincent replaces Giamatti 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Baseball moved quickly Saturday to fill the void left by the death of A. Bartlett Giamatti, elevating Fay Vincent from deputy to acting commissioner while the game's hierarchy seeks a permanent successor. 
The announcement by base­ball's executive council came less than 24 hours after Giamatti, 51, died of a heart attack at his vacation home on Martha's Vineyard. An autopsy Saturday showed that he had suffered a prior heart attack several years ago. 
The executive council said it had assumed full responsibility of the commissioner's office until a formal meeting next Friday. 
"The council unanimously delegated full authority to Deputy Commissioner Francis 
T. Vincent Jr. in the interim," the council said in a statement. "Mr. Vincent will serve as act­ing commissioner and will re­port directly to the executive council." 

The Notre Dame soccer team dropped its first two games of the Drury (22) and Paul LaVigne (23), Irish veterans and members of the 
In Falmouth, Mass., William 

season this weekend, falling to Saint Louis and Virginia in the Indiana 1988 squad that advanced to the NCAA tournament. Classic at Bloomington. Pictured above are Dave Augustyn (14), Mike see GIAMAm 1page 1 0 
From Notre Dame to Montana, Peltier's still a hit 
With thoughts of grandeur and the dream come Who would have thought that he would need a one more stop on Peltier's baseball yellow brick true of a professional baseball career ahead of him, snow-blower more than a bat when he arrived in road. Dan Peltier, simply dressed in a short-sleeved shirt Butte? Consider that Peltier rejected the initial otTer made and slacks, stepped into the airplane at Albany un­by the Rangers. Not to be defeated, the franchise der a sunny June sky. boosted its offer and included a signing bonus, at 
When the former Notre Dame baseball star I •Scott which time Peltier accepted. And one can be fairly stepped out of the plane in Butte, Mont., it had been sure that the offer amounted to more than $24 and snowing. In fact, the game he was supposed to play Brutocao trinkets. in that day had been snowed out. Next on Peltier's chain of good fortune was a veri­
"It was crazy," smiles Peltier. "I thought they had Sports Correspondent table ransacking of the Pioneer Rookie League, sent me to hell." sending the Rangers' front office into a frenzy. And 
Though it was not quite like hell, he was not as just as he was leading the league in batting average, lucky as many of his counterparts who had been Who would have thought he'd break his collarbone the Good Ranger of the Southwest came down upon assigned to more accommodating climates like from a fly baH hitting him in the back? Peltier and allotted him with a minor (although Florida and South Carolina. Instead, Peltier found That's right. A routine, practice fly baH did him in. painful) injury that sent him home two weeks early himself amid a frosty flurry for his first minor The same exact type of ball that Peltier smacked to enjoy the company of his friends and family be­league game. around for the last three years at Notre Dame; the fore going back to school. 
Peltier didn't expect that. same type of ball around which Peltier formed his With the imprint that the ball entrenched on 
But for that matter, almost nothing that happened smooth and natural swing; and the same type of ball Peltier's back, he was given word that he'd have a this summer could have been expected, except Peltier was beating into submission in the Pioneer guaranteed spot on the 1990 Ranger spring training maybe that he would be playing baseball. League. roster as well as his tuition paid for at Notre Dame. 
Who would have thought, after a horrendous 1­for-19 start, Peltier would bounce back and hit .414 That diabolical fly ball sailed innocently through But not every situation was ideal for the Irish with five home runs and 19 RB!s in his first 19 the air and pelted the center fielder with his back slugger. He did get stationed in Butte, which neces­games? turned. Before he could react to the "heads up!" sitated him to bring a parka instead of suntan oil. 
Who would have thought that he would be leading warning from the gaHery the ball had swatted him But even in this, Peltier has found a trace of enthu­the entire rookie league with a .405 batting aver­in the back. Not very fair play, right? siasm. age? "It was alright." he says casually. "Pretty nice. Who would have thought he'd be assigned to So it would seem. But even such a disastrous in­Nice country, anyway." Butte? jury as a broken collarbone turned out to be just That's the way, Dan. 





