
VOL. XXIII NO. 55 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Czechs denounce police's brutality 
30,000 call for gov't to resign 
PHAGUE. Czm~hoslovakia (AP) demonstrators Friday. -About 30.000 demonstrators "We don't let you murder Sunday denounced police bru­us!" the crowd chanted. They tality and demanded that the also chanted such slogans as government and top Communist "Write Truthfully," "Free officials resign. Authorities ar­Unions" and "Jakes to the n~sted 10 dissidents but left the Dustbin." marchNs alone. Milos Jakes is the hard-line 
Tlw government denied re­leader of the ruling Communist ports that police killed a stu­Party and, unlike most East dent in bloody dashes Friday. bloc leaders, has resisted re­when hundreds were beaten. forms orchestrated by Soviet tPar-gassPd and attacked by President Mikhail Gorbachev. dogs in the largest demonstra­tion in 20 years. About 2,000 demonstrators 
Sunday's rally began with a split away and crossed a bridge few thousand protesters gath­over the Vltava river in an ap­ering on downtown Wenceslas parent attempt to reach the Square, but the crowd grew to hillside presidential residence. 30,000 as demonstrators Police did not interfere in the reached Narodini Street, where white-helmeted riot police beat see CZECH I page 4 
Tens of thousands continue to protest in East Germany 
DHESDEN. East Germany just visiting for the day. as a formal political party. other opinion, then they should participated in an unauthorized (AI') -Tens of thousands of Ferry service across the Elbe Wolfgang Schnur, in an in­find another general secre­march from the Alexanderplatz protesters in at least eight ci­River, which forms part of the terview with West Germany's tary," he said at his East Berlin square to Parliament, calling ties braved icy winds Sunday to border, resumed Sunday at ARD television network, said home. for sweeping reforms and keep the heat on the Communist Hitzacker, about 80 miles his Democratic Awakening op­ADN said 50,000 people par­abolition of the Communist Iead1~rship. despite open bor­southeast of Hamburg, for the position group will meet Dec. ticipated in Dresden's first offi­Party's guaranteed monopoly ders and the election of a re­first time since April 23, 1945. 16-17 -the same time the cially authorized protest rally. on power. form-minded Cabinet one day In other changes, the official Communist Party will be hold­Other estimates of the crowd Parliament on Saturday con­earlier. ADN news agency reported that ing a special session in East size ranged up to 100,000. firmed a reform-minded Cabi­
Nearly 3 million East Ger­the roles of the party and the Berlin to look at further lead­"Lord don't forgive them be­net of Communist Premier Hans mans crossed into West Berlin government in East Germany's ership changes. cause they knew what they Modrow and created a commit­and West Germany between armed forces will be separated. Communist chief Egon Krenz did," said one banner in the tee to study possible constitu­Friday and Sunday, the second Also Sunday, an opposition assured East Germans in a southern city, making a biting tional changes, including drop­weekend since the government leader said his pro-democracy televised interview late Sunday play on words from Jesus ping_ a law guaranteeing Com-opened borders to the West, group would hold a convention that he will fight for political Christ's agony on the cross. border police said. Most were next month to establish itself reform. "If the party is of an-In East Berlin, thousands see PROTEST I page 4 
.Vigil for slain Jesuit priests tonight 

BY JOHN O'BRIEN 

not just move around freely,"
News Writer 

he said. ·:They keep saying they're [the 
A mass and a candlelight vigil 
priestsl so-called leftists and will be held tonight to raise they're on the side of the awareness of the slaying of six rebels," Ross said. "If that's 
Jesuit priests in El Salvador on true, why would the leftists kill Thursday. them?" According to Father Joseph According to published re­ports, the extreme right has for 
"' • Priests buried/ page 3 
more than a decade accused lo­
• U.S. aid could be cut/ page 3 
cal Jesuits and their university of "fostering subversive ideol­Ross, rector of Morrissey Hall ogy."
Reverend Ignacio Ellacuria was
and one of the event's organiz­Ross said that the priests 
one of the six priests slain .
. ers, there will be a mass in the were killed because they advo­Alumni Hall chapel at 5 p.m. to their house at a leading Univer­cate two dangerous issues in El remember the six priests. sity in San Salvador on Thurs­Salvador: literacy and land re­
At 9:15 p.m., there will be a day. form. prayer service in the Pas­Among those killed were Ig­"The majority of land is querilla West chapel followed nacio Ellacuria, rector of Jose owned by a small group of peo­by a candlelight procession to Simeon Canas Central American ple and mentioning land reform the Grotto and back, said Ross. University, and vice-rector Ig­is a dangerous thing," he said, 
"We want to find any kinds of nacio Martin-Baro, the coun­adding that the priests' posi­ways to relay their story and to try's leading expert on polls tion regarding land reform has remember them in any ways we and polling procedures. Also earned them the label of can," said Ross. ".Most immedi­killed were four other priests, "communists." ately that means prayer and all educators, a servant and her "Literacy in a country like El continuing to teach and to 15-year-old daughter. Salvador is also a dangerous preach about what their lives Ross said that he doubted the idea because once people learn were about and why it is that Salvadoran government's to read they want to vote and they died." assertion that the victims were them they want more of a share 
"We want to dramatize it murdered by leftist forces pos­of the power," he said. "The more by asking people to get ing as members of right-wing government, however, doesn't outside, to move, to stand to­death squads in an effort to want to share." gether and to pray in more of a frame .the government. "It's According to Ross, Salvado­profound way than the tradi­about as likely as me going to ran President Alfredo Cristiani, tional ways," said Ross. the moon," he said. if not responsible for the 
The priests, along with their "The section of San Salvador killings, is still a member of the housekeeper and her daughter, where the killings happened is ARENA party. "Its founder is were killed and mutilated by under extremely tight security armed men who stormed into and thirty uniformed men could 
see VIGIU page 5 




---------------------------------···--------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer Monday, November 20, 1989 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Guys are on their own now with laundry 
Humor has it that thn underwear and soek departments at 
L.S. Ayres, Hudson's, and Penney's were the places to be this wenknnd. Apparnntly many Notre Dame guys were replenish­ing their stock after St. Michael's Laundry burned down Thursday night. 

For the first time since I've been at Notre Dame I am very glad that girls do not have the option of giving their laundry to St. Mkhael's. 
Notre Dame is finally being punished, either by God or some feminist group, for its chauvinistic ways. 
At least Phyllis Schlafly is definitely not a suspect -she probably feels women should now willingly aecept'guys' laundry and do it free. 
Actually, for those of us who have the time, this is a great entrepreneurial oppor­tunity. 
We could charge $2 per load, in addition to the money it takes to operate the washers and dryers, and make a good deal of money. 
Unfortunately. I think the guys realize that we will take them for everything they are worth, so we will be seeing many men in our already overcrowded laundry rooms. 
For those guys who naively entrusted all their laundry to St. Michael's and have never done laundry before, here are some tips: 
•Despite 
the popular myth, all of your dirty laundry cannot go into the washing maching at one time. 

•Unless 
you are very fond of wearing pink, do not wash anything red with any­thing not n~d. 

•Don't 
forget to put fabric softener in the dryer; otherwise you might be walking around with a sock clinging to your shirt. 

•Unless 
you want to revive the once­trendy "floods," don't put all your jeans in the dryer, especially if they're new. 

•Bleach, 
that magical, mysterious liquid, is used to whiten clothing. This means that it should not be used to get the dirt out of the knees on your favorite jeans. 

•When 
deciding how much detergent to put in, always remember that episode of the Brady Bunch when Peter put in too much soap and flooded the laundry room. 

•If 
all else fails, call Mom. Maybe the destruction of St. Michael's isn't so bad after all. Who knows'? This crisis could really unite males and females on campus. 


It could be just what the University is looking for. It may be the start of a new trend: laundry room bonding. 
The views expressed are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Production  Today's Staff:  Accent  
Karen Newlove  Robyn Simmons  
Wendy Cunnigham  Shonda Wilson  
Joe Zadrozny  
VIewpoint  Graphics  
Kim Skiles  radford J. Boehm  
Dave Brunner  
Melissa Gorham  Day Staff  Ad Design  
Julie Parker  Maria Blohm  
Systems  Shannon Roach  
Tim Keifer  News  Ryan Roberts  
Dan Towers  Tiim O"Keefe  Kerry Clain  
Sandra Wiegand  
Business  
Matt Gallagher  Spor1s  
Maureen Gallagher  Molly Mahoney  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
& 

Janice O'Leary News Copy Editor 
WEATHER Lines show high temperatures. 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY ©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc 
Pressure
®© ~~~l ~ rn CJ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Assoc1ated Press Graph1csNet 
OF INTEREST 
A show of "Black Images" will be presented at 8 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium by the Black Cultural Art Council. Song, poetry, dance, and skits relating to Afriean Americans will be included. 
WORLD 
Brazil's presidential election runoff in DecembPr will include Marxist Luis Inacio Lula da Silva who edged out a leftist rival Sunday and will run against a conserva­tive candidate in the runoff. The Superior Electoral Court said with 97 percent of the ballots counted da Silva, of the socialist Workers Party, was in second place with 11.3 million votes, for 16.1 percent, while left-wing populist Leone! Brizola had 11.1 million votes, for 15.7 percent. 
Soviet Georgia retains the right to secede from the Soviet Union and to cancel Soviet laws that are not in the best interest of the republic, since its incorpo­ration into the Soviet Union nearly 70 years ago resulted from a military intervention, the republic's legislature declared Sunday. The strong statements further compli­cate the Kremlin's attempts to rein in the 15 Soviet re­publics at a time when ethnic tensions and drives for in­dependence are mounting. 
NATIONAL 
The oldest, most faraway object yet found in the universe has been discovered by astronomers in Pasadena, Calif. It is a star-like body called a quasar about 14 billion light years or 82 trillion billion miles from Earth. "We are now seeing an object as it was a lit­tle over 1 billion years after the beginning of the uni­verse." said astronomer Maarten Schmidt of the Califor­nia Institute of Technology. 
A veiled countdown for launching the shuttle Discovery at Cape Canaveral on Thanksgiving Eve with five astronauts and a secret spy satellite began Sunday as NASA faced a tight schedule. Launch director Bob Sieck gave the go-ahead to start the countdown Sunday after­noon even though workers at the pad were several hours behind schedule in doing final checks and dosing up pan­els on the lower part of the two solid fuel booster rockets. 
INDIANA 


Indiana pro-choice advocates 
marched to the Statehouse in Indianapolis on Sunday to send lawmakers a message that they will not tolerate any curbs on abortion rights. A crowd estimated at 4,500 people held a worship service at the Indiana War Memorial downtown. 
Former congressional aide to south Bend Rep. John Hiler, Tyrone Walford will remain in custody until his March 9 trial on charges of immigration violations and intimidating witnesses. Watford is now on unpaid leave from his job in Hiler's office. 
U.S. District Judge Allen Sharp ruled Friday that Watford poses a danger to the community and that no combination of conditions of release could reasonably as­sure the safety of witnesses in the case. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for November 20, 1989 

Volume in shares 
151.02 Million 
NYSE Index 189.28 {} .53 S&P Composite 341.61 {} 1.03 Dow Jones Industrials 2,652.66 {} 17.0 
Precious Metals 
Gold {} $3.9 to $395.8 I oz. 
Silver{} 9.6¢ to $5.685 I oz. 
Source: AP 
Thousands of flag-waving Spaniards demon­strated in downtown Madrid on Sunday to commemorat1~ the 14th anniversary of the death of Gen. Franciseo Franco. The rally, led by Franco's only daughWr, Carnwn Franco Polo, was organized by veterans who fought with Franco during the 1936-39 Spanish Civil War. 
A new relationship with East European na­tions in the midst of political and economic roforms is be­ing formed by leaders of the 12 European Community na­tions. At a summit dinner Saturday given by President Francois Mitterrand, the 12 Western leaders agreed to consider forming a development bank for Eastern EuropP and to help train managPrs in the newly emerging democ­racies. 
Kitty Dukakis was away from the hospital this weekend to spend time with family and friends, after be­ing hospitalized two weeks ago when she swallowed some rubbing alcohol. Mrs. Dukakis left New England Dea­coness Hospital in Boston on Friday night. "She will be back and forth to the hospital for furthnr treatment." said Mindy Lubber, spokeswoman for Gov. Michael Dukakis. 
Lech Walesa drew cheers in Philadelphia on Sunday when he held aloft the city's Freedom Award, which martial law had stopped him from collecting in 1981, and declared, "We are free now." In the morning, the Solidarity leader paused from his goodwill tour of the United States to pray at the National Shrine of our Lady of Czestochowa in suburban Doylestown, where he was joined by an estimated crowd of 10,000 who shouted 
"Welcome!" in Polish. 
Of Interests may be submitted to The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. weekdays. Of Interests are free, one-time events of inter­est to the student body in general. 
ALMANAC 

On November 20: 
e In 1789: New Jersey became 
the first state to ratify the Bill 
of Rights. e In 1945: 24 Nazi leaders were put on trial before an in­
ternational war crimes tribunal in Nuremberg, Germany. e In 1969: The Nixon admin­istration announced a halt to residential use of the pesticide DDT as part of a total phase­out that was to take effect by 1971. e In 1975: After nearly four decades of absolute rule, Spain's Gen. Francisco Franco died in Madrid, two weeks be­fore his 83rd birthday. 
Yesterday's high: 46 Yesterday's low: 19 Nation's high: 91 (San Luis Obispo, Calif.) Nation's low: -6 (fargo, N.D. and International Falls, Minn.) 
Forecast: 

Cloudy and windy to­day with 30 percent chance of rain showers late in the morning and snow showers by late afternoon. High in the upper 40s, falling into the 30s in the after­noon. Variable cloudi­ness, windy and colder tonight with 40 percent chance of snow show­ers. Low near 25. Vari­able cloudiness and cold Tuesday with 40 pereent chance of morning snow show­ers. Becoming mostly sunny in th1~ aftPrnoon. High in the uppPr 30s. 
Monday, November20, 1989 The Observer page 3 



Priests buried in El Salvador as fighting sputters on 
Gov't says bishops incited violence, asks Pope to remove them 'for their own good' 
SAN SALVADOB. El Salvador (AP) -About 800 mourners gathered for the burial of six Jesuit priests, their cook and her teen-age daughter. who were slain Thursday and their bodies mutilated. President AI­fredo Cristiani and U.S. Ambas­sador William Walker were among those who attended the funeral Mass. 
The United States has pressed rightist President AI­frndo Cristiani for a full inves­ligation of the killings. and a 
U.S. s1~nator warned U.S. aid to El Salvador could be curtailed if Cristiani cannot control right-wing death squads from operating in the coun{ry. 
Archbishop Arturo Hivera Damas said before the funeral service that "there exists the vehement presumption that the murders were committed by members of the armed forces or people in intimate con­nivance with them." 
Hivera Damas was asked about a letter sent by Attorney (;eneral Mauricio Colorado to Pope John Paul II asking that some bishops be removed from El Salvador for their own safety. Colorado claimed the bishops were fomenting vio­fence. 
The archbishop said he did not have the text of the letter, which was published by Sunday newspapers, but added, "Certainly, I have received some terse threats that refer to my person." 
Colorado said he sent the let­tnr as a private citizen. I le men-tinned no names in the letter but told reporters Sunday that he was rPI'erring to Hivera Damas and auxiliary bishop Gregorio Hosa Chavez. Col­orado claimed he had informa­tion "confirming there is a plan to attempt against (the lives) of these ehureh dignitaries." 
ThPy could be assassinated by 
any "resentful person," Coi­orado said. 
The United States has pres­sured Cristiani to investigate and prosecute those responsible for the killings. In Washington, Sen. Christopher Dodd, D­Conn., said Sunday that Congress is likely to impose conditions on further U.S. aid to El Salvador if Cristiani fails to demonstrate by January that he is firmly in control. 
At the Vatican, the pope, speaking to thousands of peo­pie in St. Peter's Square, said the world was viewing "with profound apprehension the tragic events" in El Salvador. 
He said six Jesuit priests "were barbarically assassi­nated" and that many other in­nocent people were killed in the "fratricidal fighting." He made no mention of Colorado's ap­peal. 
Members of Cristiani's right-wing Bepublican Nationalist Al­liance have frequently criticized Jesuit priests as being sympa­thetic to the rebels. 
In his regular Sunday homily, Rivera Damas called the rebel offensive "useless and unjusti­liable" and said the military re­sponse was "excessive." 
Leftist guerrillas withdrew from San Salvador's outskirts Sunday, winding down their biggest offensive of the civil war and pulling back to their mountain strongholds. 
Rivera Damas said that with the guerrilla withdrawal "a dreadful wave of revenge, re­pression and witch hunting may follow." The attorney general said Rivera Damas and a Bo­man Catholic auxiliary bishop should leave El Salvador for their own safety. 
"Monsignor Rosa Chavez has participated, even his brothers are part of the guerrillas. which is known by everyone and Monsignor Rivera Damas have 
-------------------------------------------,
F R E E 
SCHOlARSHIP INFORMATION FOR 
STUDENTS WHO NEED 




MONEY FOR COU1GE 
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. 
• 
We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fellowships, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion In private sector funding. 

• 
Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic interests, career plans. family heritage and place of residence. 

• 
There's money available lor students who have been newspaper car· riers, grocery clerks. cheerleaders, non-smokers ... etc. 

• 
Results QUARANTEED. 


I 
CALL For A Free Brochure • .,J ~A_N_n_IM_E____~(8_0_0~)_3_4_~__4_rn__~ 

Juniors Juniors Juniors 
Your parents could be staying on campus for Junior Parents Weekend. Register for the Morris Inn Lottery 
Tuesday, Nov. 28 and Wednesday, Nov. 29 6-9p.m, room 108 LaFortune 
any questions? call Maryann x2055 or Steve x3131 


Juniors Juniors Juniors 
expressed some controversial and very objectionable opinions ... and this places them at grave risk," he added. 
There was virtually no gun­fire in the capital as troops re­gained control of the working­class districts of Zacamil and Metropolis on the north side, Mejicanos in the northeast and Soyapango on the eastern edge of the city. 
Army patrols moved through the shattered streets, strewn with the rubble of fighting. On some streets, several burned bodies could be seen. 
Later Sunday, security troops raided for the second time in a week a small church in the capital harboring refugees from the fighting. 
A military news release gave a tentative count of nearly 1,000 soldiers and guerrillas killed since the rebels launched their offensive in San Salvador and other cities in the country Nov. 11. 
The military said 784 guerril­las were killed, 527 wounded and 129 captured and govern­ment forces lost 208 killed and 627 wounded. 
Radio Venceremos, the 
Farabundo Marti National Lib­eration Front's clandestine ra­dio station, claimed 827 sol­diers were killed or wounded but gave no breakdown. 
Neither the military nor rebels gave an estimate of ca­sualties among civilians, who suffered heavily in the block-by­block fighting. The Red Cross said an estimate was difficult because many bodies are still in the streets. 
For the first time in more than a week the skies over San Salvador were clear of war­planes and helicopter gunships raiding rebel positions. 


AP Photo 

A housing project in the Zacamil neighborhood in San Salvador is under automatic weapon and rocket fire from army troops. Most residents have fled from the project. 

U.S. support of El Salvador could be cut 
WASHINGTON (AP) Congress is~ likely to impose conditions cin further U.S. aid to El Salvador if the embattled Central American country's President Alfredo Cristiani fails to demonstrate by January that he is firmly in control, Sen. Christopher Dodd said Sunday. 
The Connecticut Democrat, who is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommit­tee on Western hemisphere af­fairs, said on NBC's "Meet the Press" that he doesn't favor any immediate move to cut back aid in the wake of last week's slayings of six Jesuit priests in El Salvador. 

"I see no action being taken over the next several days, prior to adjournment," he said. "So this period between the end of November and January (when Congress reconvenes) will be a critical period." 
Dodd said that "if President Cristiani demonstrates that he can regain control, that he's not going to allow the death squads to operate, then I think you minimize the possibility of reducing aid." 
However, he said, if Cristiani is not in "political control" by January, "there will certainly be some conditionality placed cin that aid when Congress comes back." 
Sen. Connie Mack, B-Fla., in­terviewed on the same pro­gram, said about the killing of the priests that "President Cristiani has already come for­ward and said he thought that this was a barbaric act, that there should be investigations. He asked for assistance." 
The slayings came during the biggest offensive mounted by leftist guerrillas of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front during the 10­year-old war. Fighting has 
raged in the cap1tal of San Salvador and throughout the country since it was launched a week ago. 
Mack said that "I think we ought to be concentrating on what in fact the guerrillas have been up to. Their intentions, I think, were clear -to try to decapitate the Cristiani gov­ernment. This is an act of des­peration, I believe." 



ORANGE BOWL 
TRAVEL PACKAGE INCLUDES GAME TICKET! See the Fighting Irish BEAT the Colorado Buffs! 
$ 598 

Your complete travel/game package includes all of these features: 
~rpersonquod DR d . 'rf f Ch" . E . . .
(4peopleperroom) oun tnp a1 are rom tcago vta astem Atrltnes, departing trtple. double orsingle December 31 and returning January 2. other dates available ovollobleonrequest D Deluxe accommodations at a Miami Dadeland Marriott Hotel 
American Travel D Alamo rental car with unlimited free mileage. Gas. tax. insurance Mem.beroltheAmerx:anSocietyotTroveiAgenls extra. Minimum age requirements apply. Airport transfers available. andtheAmericanMarketingAssn D ORANGE BOWL GAME TICKET-seat location subject to availability 
CollegeBowlandAlumniSpecialists D Hotel and airline taxes included l-80().92MIAMJ For 3 shonng. 56481'()(h. 2 shormg. 5698 eaCh. smgle. 5798 Space 15/lffilted at these pnces on<115 available on (1-800-926-4264 TOll-FREE) o ftrst-come. /list-served bosrs. Stmtlar hotel may be substttutt'd Standard travel package terms apply 

---------~------.---~-------------------------------------------.--------~--------~---------------------------------------~--------------~ 
The Observer Monday, November 20, 1989 
Testers torture toys 
GAJTHERSBUHG, Md. (APJ -tential safety hazards to chil­Even Scrooge, on his worst dren. bah-humbug days, might have llundemer estimates that shed a tear at the sight. more than two-thirds -many 
What appears at first glance of them mass-produeed imports to be a jolly Santa's workshop from Mexieo or the Far East ­in this Washington suburb is flunk the commission's aetually a torture chamber for stringent standards. They are Christmas toys that is worthy either recalled for rndnsigning of the Spanish Inquisition. or bamwd from the market as 
Working behind closed doors unfit for putting under the in a small room stacked high Christmas tree. with Yuletide goodies, Bob Last year, 245 toys were vol­llundemer, the Torquemada of untarily recalled by manufac­the toy business, is gleefully turers at the agency's urging. wrenching the nose off a cuddly Some of the worst offl~ndnrs teddy bear. will be displayed at a Dec. I 
Nearby, a bespectad1~d helper news conference, wlwn the is calmly dismembering a stack commission will give its annual of dolls with blonde tresses, Christmas warning to toy-buy­yanking off their arms without ing parents. a trace of emotion. At his elbow By far, the biggest threat are the shattered remains of posed by hazardous toys, which dump trucks, airplanes. and accounted for 142,000 injuries baby rattles, and bits of stuff­and a minimum of 22 deaths ing from disemboweled toy an­last year, are small parts that imals. children can easily detach with 
They are working in the toy their teeth or fingers and put in testing laboratory of the U.S. their mouths, eausing choking Consumer Product Safety or asphyxiation. Commission, and their tables are crowded with diabolical de­Most choking deaths involve vices specifically designed to balloons. marbles and other fold, spindle and mutilate -or small balls, says John Preston, worse. a mechanical engineer who de­
of thousands of East German visitors take advantage of their new travelling liberties. Clamps and torque wrenches signed many of the agency's are applied to the eyes of lov­toy-testing procedures. But able toy monkeys. Teething balloons and marbles are ex­
who was replaced by Krenz Oct. 20,000 people in Erfurt, 10,000 rings are dropped in pots of empt from government safety18. in Meiningen, also 10,000 in
Protest 

boiling water. Stuffed bears are regulations because of theirKrenz was quoted by a West Frankfurt an der Oder, 3,000 in 
continued from page1 battered with finger-like universal popularity as chil­
German newspaper as saying Schwedt and 2,000 in Neustre­
probes. dren's playthings.
munist rule. Honecker is one of those under litz. The official agency said Is this guy the Grinch who "Can we tolerate the 10"We won't let ourselves be investigation by a parliamen­"thousands" protested in Karl stole Christmas, or what? deaths of children every yearblinded by the open borders," tary commission. Marx Stadt but did not give a "No, I feel more like the good from choking on balloons?"
said one protest banner. "Swap Just outside the capital, more precise crowd estimate 
witch of the North," says Hun­Preston asked. "On the otherDDH (East Germany) for about 30,000 Communist Party for the march there or in East demer, chief of the two-man hand, we don't believe theMickey Mouse," said another. backers demonstrated in Pots­Berlin. 
laboratory which is housed in world is ready to accept a bandam to show their support for the drab former barracks of an on balloons and marbles. We're
One sign suggested. the government's announced abandoned Nike missile site perplexed about what we ean"Jionecker to court," and reform program, ADN said. At least some demonstrators 
about 15 miles northwest of do."
speakers called for prosecution were cool to the idea of unifying Washington.
of the country's former leaders, ADN reported other pro­the two Germanies, a subject of With extra help to cope with llundemer says lw hasincluding ousted president and democracy rallies Sunday in a much debate since East German the Christmas rush, llundemer "compelling masons" for his
party chief Erich llonecker, half-dozen cities and towns: borders opened Nov. 9. 
and his assistant, Garfield personal interest in toy safety 
Jenkins, work full time testing as tlw parent of two small chil­
about 900 toys annually for po-dren. 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT ACTIUITIES BOARD: TONIGHT IN CARROLL AUD. FROM 7:30 UNTIL 10:00 
Dr. John Gordon 
speaking on the Robert Kennedy and John Kennedy assassinations 
AP Photo 
A seemingly endless line of East German cars squeezes through a passage of the Berlin Wall as hundreds 
Some prominent dissidents met the Civil Forum will back a



Czech 

such as Hana Marvanova of the two-hour general strike Nov. 
continued from page1 Independent Peace Association, 27. A representative of a stu­march but did block access to Emanuel Mandler of the Demo­dent group told the meeting the hill. cratic Initiative and Anna students would begin sit-in 
Those arrested included Petr Sabatova, a senior member of strikes at several universities Uhl, a leading human rights ac­Charter 77, also were arrested, Monday. tivist, who was charged in con­the sources said. nection with the spreading of On Sunday night, about 300 Among those attending the news about the alleged death of people from a dozen political meeting were representatives of Martin Smid at police hands groups met, formed an organi­the Socialist Party and People's Friday. The state news agency zation called the Civil Forum Party, both allied with the CTK said he was charged with and adopted a resolution that Communists. "the crimes of harming the in­demands the resignation of terests of the republic abroad Communist Party Politburo Protests also took place in at and spreading 1llarming news." members "responsible for the least eight East German cities 
Uhl, a veteran member of the 1968 invasion," including Pres­Sunday and in the Bulgarian Charter 77 human rights ident Gustav Husak and Jakes. capital, Sofia. As in Prague, the group, is associated with VIA, a The Soviet-led invasion in Au­demonstrators demanded dissident news service active in gust 1968 crushed a liberal democratic reforms but also several East European coun­Communist government. punishment of recently ousted tries. If convicted, he could be leaders -Todor Zhivkov in sentenced to 3 1/2 years in The resolution also calls for Bulgaria and Erich Honecker in prison. the removal of officials respon­East Germany. 
Dissident sources in Prague sible for suppressing Friday's and Vienna told The Associated demonstration, establishes a Plainclothes police in Prague Press that police also arrested commission to investigate po­prevented several reporters Drahomira Drazska, who said lice brutality and demands the from attending a scheduled she was Smid's girlfriend. She release of all "prisoners of news conference on the Smid claimed he was killed by special conscience." case in the home of Charter 77 police Friday. It said if the demands are not spokeswoman Dana Nemcova. 


r----@---.. 
THE HEALY COMPANY 
OFFERS YOU LOW COST TERM LIFE INSURANCE 
to help provide your family or business with the NEEDED protection. 
Annual Premiums for '260,000" Coverage• Ac• llale Female 25 '174 $163 36 '180 fl74 46 '2U $209 66 $383'w 
66 $1413 $688 
The H~11ly Co. brillfS !JOII •~~at tlw i11611r~U~U illll,.try #Ia to olfrT. 
For more information caD Matthew J. McGraw, at 219/289-4061. 
...........,..,...... -_ I'Dm -.f...I ItOpoliq lilc. ~,_-.....a.w...,.,.""'i'-· 

Go Irish. Beat Miami. 
(COMING SOON-"WORKING GIRL", "ABOUT LAST NIGHT" CLUB TUESDAY NEXT WEEK with MIKE RAYBURN!!) 
....
-------------~----~-------~-~---­
The Observer page 5 

S. Africa desegregation opposed 

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -There are in­creasing signs the government's pledge to end racial segregation of beaches and public amenities could lead to conflict as well as reconciliation. 
A right-wing politician says the move will fuel a "spirit of rebellion" among whites op­posed to integration. 
And liberals are questioning the government's sincerity fol­lowing a Cabinet minister's comment that "sensitive" facili­ties such as health clinics, swimming pools and camp­grounds might remain segre­gated. 
The initial reaction to Presi­dent F.W. de Klerk's an­nouncement Thursday was gen­erally positive, with the pre­dictable exception of the far-right Conservative Party. 
However, de Klerk's pledge that the Separate Amenities Act would be scrapped as soon as possible was undercut the next day, when Provincial Affairs Minister Hernus Kriel said the repeal might not occur in the upcoming parliamentary ses­sion. 
Kriel said there was uncer­tainty in the C.abinet about how 
Cheney: Less defense spending needed 
WASHINGTON (APl -De­fense Secretary Dick Cheney said Sunday he was planning to cut Pentagon spending next year because "the likelihood of all-out conflict between the U.S. and the Soviet Union ... is probably lower now than it's been at just about any time since the end of World War II." 
"You can't watch the events unfold in Eastern Europe, the development of governments headed by non-communists, the possibilities of free elections, of opposition parties. and not be­lieve that that will have some long-term impact upon the se­curity situation in Europe," Ch­eney said in a television inter­view. 
Cheney's assessment that the Soviets were cutting military spending, and that further U.S. defense reductions were ac­ceptable, marks a shift from his position of as recently as two weeks ago, and appears to be based on recent analysis by the Central Intelligence Agency. 
"Given the changes that we see today in Eastern Europe, I think it's possible to contem­plate the possibility over the next few years that we may, in­deed, be able to reduce the level of our deployments in Western Europe," Cheney said on the ABC-TV program "This Week With David Brinkley." 
The Soviets have reduced their spending on conventional arms, Cheney said, but continue to modernize their strategic nuclear force and have "a long way to go to clean up their act in the Third World." 
He said the Soviet Union was in part to blame for the guer­rilla offensive in El Salvador 
Happy 21st Birthday 

because Moscow supports Cuba and Nicaragua, two nations the Bush administration has ac­cused of aiding the Salvadoran rebels. 
Cheney said he would forward 
his recommendations on the de­
fen,se budget to President Bush 
in early December, about the 
time the president is hold his 
first summit with Soviet Presi­
dent Mikhail Gorbachev. The 
budget package will be sent to Capitol Hill in January, said Ch­eney. 
The decision to plan for the cuts was driven in part by the perception that the Soviet threat was diminishing and in part by the U.S. budget crunch. Cheney has maintained that So­viet military spending has risen by 3 percent annually from 1985 to 1988, and that Pen­tagon spending has fallen 11 percent. 
Cheney predicted the axe would fall on some programs that were popular with mem­bers of the Congress, and that some military bases would be closed, a prospect that in the past has aroused opposition from congressmen whose dis­tricts would be affected. 
"What I've done is asked the services to get back to me with what I think are estimates of how much we would spend and what we would spend it on given realistic assumptions about how much money we'll have," he said. 
·~;E~~~;-;-;;;~~ '-~~~~~~~~~~~~~=!\




I~ -~~
Tour includes all of the tolowing fo[ gne low g>st:1*Round trip AIRFARE: Chicago -London via British Airways. 1 *Round trip TRANSFERS: Airport -Hotel 1•a NIGHTS: The Royal National Hotel-all rooms with private I 
bath & continental breakfast. 1 *7 day London Regional Transport Visitor Travelcard. *Full Day Guided Tour: Stratford-on-Avon and Oxford 
*Experienced Guides to Assist with: 1 theatre bookings, shopping, sightseeing 1 **Total Cost per ~n: $975.00 1~Call SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL, South Bend, for details~ 
L------·~~~~~~~~~~----­
to deal with "sensitive areas" and suggested that some facili­ties, including swimming pools, might be reserved solely for the use of local residents. 
Since residential areas are racially segregated, this would effectively maintain the whites­only status of swimming pools in white areas, even if the Sepa­rate Amenities Act were re­pealed. 
Tian van der Merwe, chair­man of the anti-apartheid Democratic Party, said Kriel's remarks suggested de Klerk's announcement may have been little more than a publicity stunt. 
"The government is showing it is sensitive to racial obses­sion and that it is unable to do away with apartheid," he said. "It is contemptible." 
Kriel said the governing Na­tiona! Party did not want to move so fast that racial conflict resulted. 
"This is a transitional 
phase," he said. "If something 
goes wrong during this phase. 
it could seriously retard the re­
form process." 
However, right-wing whites already have signaled they are 

' 
Acting with emotion 
ready for confrontation. They include Johann Oosthuisen, mayor of the Conservative Party-controlled town of Mossel Bay, who wants to keep the local beach off limits to blacks. 
"I want to warn the govern­ment that there is beginning a spirit of rebellion amongst the whites throughout South Africa," Oosthuisen sad in a de­fiant statement after de Kled called for immediate opening ol all beaches. 
Oosthuisen complained that the government was threaten­ing court action against white officials who resisted beach in­tegration while taking no ac­tion when banners of the out­lawed South African Commu­nist Party were displayed at re­cent black opposition rallies. 
"The Conservative Party is ready, as always. to protect the rights of whites, come what may," the mayor said. He sug­gested that National Party members were, for the first time, "grasping the full impli­cations of the government's re­form program" and might de­cide to defect. 
The Observer/Kevin Weise 
Junior Fred Tombar performs in a skit in the "Black Images" pre­sentation Saturday night, titled "Wake Up! Where's Daddy Gone?" 

Vigil 
continued from page1 

Robert D'Aubuisson, who has clearly established ties to the death squads as well as to the plans and the execution of Archbishop Romero." 
According to Ross, the vigil and mass are not protests. "We're just trying to find some way to help people enter into this reality better, to tell their [the priests'] story again and to try to teach that we have to be doing the same things." 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 
--------------------------~~----------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Business
page 6 Monday, November 20, 1989 
ND grad student opens copy shop in basement of LaFortune Center 
By JEFF SWANSON fpaturP of tlw full sPrvirn ropiPr !\olrP l>anw and prl'sently a Business Writer ran lw a rpaf lifP savPr if sonw­gradual!' studPnl enroiiPd in onP IH'Pds a lot of copi<'s of a :\otrP Danw's four yPar M.B.A./ 
Sine!' Octolwr ]Oth NotrP multi-pag~• rPport for tlwir nPxt law dPgrPP program. rP­DamP studt>nts ha\'(' no longPr rlass. "Stapling by hand can SParclwd tlw local nwrkPt in had to go ofT campus to f'ulf'ill takl' a long Limn," lw said. South BPtHI l'or copying sPr­thl'ir copying and printing Fofpy was giwn pPrmission to vicPs. "\Vp try to lw COillJWiitiw ni'Pds. l.ocatl'd in tlw basl'mPnt rl'nl tlw spacP by tlw Uniwr­so JWoplP don't haw to go ofT of tlw l.ahH·turw StudPnt Cl'n­sity. Through a bidding pro­campus." lw said. tl'r. Thl' Copy Shop has lwPn CPSS, Fofpy and his idPa for a In addition to tlw copying providing thPSP sPrvicl's. copy shop. Wl'n' sPIPcll'd. "Tiw Sl'rViCPS, lfH' shop sl'ffs suppfiPS 
Owrwd and OJWratl'd by grad­Univl'rsily saw a tHwd for a ranging from highlightPrs to ual!' studPnt llan FoiPy, tlw printing ~<;Prvin•. llowl'vPr, in computPr disks. Fofpy also shop has thrPP sl'lf-sPrvicl~ addition to thn ni'Pd for a hopps that ThP Copy Shop will copil'rs. a fascimill' machinl', printing SPrvicP I saw a nPPd lwconw a cPntPr for studPnts to binding sPrvicPs and a statP-of­for a copying sPrvicn," Fofpy purchasP coursP packl'h dl'­tltP-art full sPrvicl' photocopy­said. sigrwd by tlwir prof'Pssors. A 
ing machinP which makPs Fo!Py Pxplairwd that studPnt lot of his businPss so f'ar has ninPly-two copiPs a minutP groups nPPd a printing sPrvicn. ronw from studPnl groups and whiiP it stapll's and collatl's. In hut a lot of studl'nts rwnd a lw lwlieves that this sPctor will add iLion to lhl'sl' sl'rVicl's tlw copying sPrvirP. contimu• to grovv. shop will Sl'rvicP printing nPPds By charging six l'Pnts a copy through a lontl printPr. on thrPP sPlf-snrvit'l' copinrs, Tlw Copy Shop has sPvPn Plll­
"\Vp calPr to tlw last minutP­which Folny claims makn bnttPr ploye,~s. nxduding Foley, who tvpP custonwr. " Fofpy said. "A copins than otlwr copit~rs avail­lwlp staff llw shop during tlw ,;,, of pPopiP that coniP in lwrP abiP to studPnts on campus, lw ninnty-orw hours that it is OJWn 
think that if llwy nPPd a lot of lwlinvPs that st udPnts will rP­Parh WPI'k. Folny said that copiPs tlwy will haw to pick spond. TlwrP are always pPopfl~ busirwss has benn going wPII thnm up tomorrow, hut wP can on staff at Tlw Copy Shop to since opPning. but that lw has do tlwm right away if thny nPPd dnal with any problnms that had to put a lot of work into tlwm in a hur-rv." lw said. may arisn with tlw copiPrs. gPlting started and maintaining 
FolPy said that tlw stapling FoiPy, an '1\9 gradualn of it. 
La 
t Stock Bu cks 
Boeing Co. and Machinists Union 
Here are the 10 largest individual U.S. corporate stock buyback programs ever announced, according to IDD Information Services. The programs have not necessarily been completed and do not include other buyback programs the 
agree to new tentative contract 
companies may have announced previously or subsequently. 
SEATTLE (API -Boeing Co. tial improvPml'nl" ovPr prPvi­at'l'PptatH'I', Bakl'l' said.
$10.0 billion 

and Machinists union negotia­ous offprs, said Tom BakPr. Tlw strikP, whirh bPgan Ort. tors, spurred by an unusual prnsidtmt of SPattiP-arPa Dis­4. brought production at BoP­move by a federal nwdiator. trict Lodgn 751, which rPprP­ing to a virtual hall, dPiaying agreed to a tentative contract sents nnarly RO pnrePnt of' tlw dPiiwriPs to airlinPs worldwidP Sunday that could end the 4 7-Boeing workPrs covnrnd by tlw amid rising l'oncPrn ovPr aging day-old strike by 57,000 work­Machinists contract. passPngt~r jPts. ers in nine states. Most tnrms wnrl' withlwld, MPdiator Doug llammond 
After 14 hours of talks that but Baknr said that a.ftnr rP­said lw proposPd tlw dna! a fP\\' ended about 3:30 a.m., chinf peatPd assertions by Boning hours aflPr talks n•sumPd Sat­Boeing negotiator Larry McK­that there would be no incrnas1~ urday for tlw first timP in two 
:: ,•,• ean said the production work­in thP. company's pre-strikn fi­Wl~l~ks. liP said submitting his 
;: ;:· 

ers could be back on the job as nancial offnr, thn settlement own rProm nwndation, ratlwr early as Wednesday at the "has new morwy." than lwlping thn two sidPs to­world's No. 1 maker of passen­NP-gotiators for thn union ward a snttlnnwnt. was "an ger jets. werP. divided, saying argunwnts unusual and for ml' a rarP 
"At this point we're looking for and against ratification stnp." forward to a favorable vote on would bn prnsnnted wlwn nwm­Ill~ said lw had usPd that tar­this contract and a return to bers meet to vote on thP. thren­tie onlv oncn bdorP in his 15 normal operations," he said. year pact Monday. But most years ~ith tlw FPdnral MPdia­
"This proposal is a substan-negotiators arn recommP.nding tion and Conriliation SPrvicP. 
AP/Karl Tate Source: IDD Information Services 


eyond euphoria: What events in Berlin may truly mean 
In 1955, as a GI stationed in (;ermany, I took what was then the tourist trip through East BPrlin-riding the U­Bahn train into shabby precincts that WPre failing eonspinrously to deep pacP economically with tlw city's Wt~stnrn Sl'l'tors. 
Economies isn't evP.rything, wn were told: things were "fairer" umll'r socialism. You bnteha. Six yl'ars latnr, again in Europe, I watched the Communist overlords in what should have b<wn tlw ultimate proof of tlwir fail urn: P.reeting an obscene wall to keep thnir people from tasting freedom. 
It has taken nearly threP. more decades to end. at least temporarily, the threat of be­ing shot for wanting to move to a better life. Yet now, as euphoria swePps the planet in tlw wake of thrilling sePnes that would have sP.emed fan­tastie only a few weeks ago. it may IH' timely to step bark from tlw undPrstandahly tearful Pnthusiasm to assess what tlwsP changes may 

really mean. Three thoughts occur: 
(1) Thl.' cold war isn't ov..r yi.'L 
0( course we wish it were; we always do. Since the death of Stalin, each change in the Soviet Union has stirred wild hopes -and wishful analy­sis-that our "military-indus­trial compfp,x" can now be safely dismantlt~d. freeing re­sourc<~s for morp, compas­sionate uses. This yp,arning to retire into peaceful isolation plays to a profound historical American yearning, which the Soviets havn often seemed to understand (and exploit) bet­ter than we do ourselves. 
And so, in this latest in­
stallnwnt of what has been a continual Soviet policy of al­ternating "freeze" and "thaw." we are told. as we always are, that this time is different. Let us hope it is true. But nwanwhile we must d1•al with rnality: (a) despite the rww llurry of Pxdtenwnt 
Louis Rukeyser 
Tribune Media.Services 

about a possible reduction or Soviet arms spending to "only" 14 to 16 perc1~nt of gross national product, this is still dramatically abovn th<~ 
U.S. level of 5.1\ pPrcent; (b) 1wen if Mikhail Gorbachev sticks to his (slightly reducPdl guns production, his own future is uncertain in a country where the formidabln military is alrnady grumbling, and (c) Soviet mischief­making as close to our shores as Cnntral Am1~rica and the Caribbean continues apace. 
Some reduction of U.S. arms spending was already in the works. and will surely continue. But to dream of a nirvana in which wP. need no longp,r maintain a strong world dP.fense posture is to dream of a world that does not ypt exist. 
(2) Karl Marx is d(•ad. 

For the past two gPnera­tions, studnnts in this country havn bP.nn taught that frPP marknts wnrn outdatnd and that governmental rPdistribu­Lion, a Ia Marx. was tlw waw of tlw fulun~. Soml' wavn! On nvnry continent wlwrP.vnr capitalism and socialism haw had an authentic eompntition. Adam Smith has wipnd thn ground with Karl Marx. 
The superiority of' Peonomir liberty and opportunity is searcPiy up for dnbalP on ni­thPr side of tlw Iron Curtain today. Ninntnenth-cPnlury class-war idnology is on thn run from Berlin to Binning­ham, from Budapest to Bom­bay: one of these days it may even bP. put to rout in Wash­ington, D.C. 
(3) The U.S. roll.' should b(• friendly but rl'alistieally dis­tanced. 
We cannot afford an Anwri­ean Solution to PVPry problPm, PvPn if we could 
obtain it. Ironically. though. many who prPviously dPnigratPd U.S. involvPmPnt on llw Co nli rw n t a r P demanding now that wn flood Eastern l:uropt• with tn~asurn. Such dPmands mock tlw prinripiPs by which WI' haw prospl'rPd and prPvaill'd. If tlw htst wants to movP truly and fully to a markPt economy, it will not havP to bPg filr U.S. inwslnwnt: it will merit it. Similarly, Third World rountrins that havn profited cynically by playing ofT onP SUJWrpowPr against another may find that. surh posturing must hPnceforth bP rnplacml by a morn w~nuirwly opPn economy. 
To tho nxtPnt we havn bnl'n able to influPnee nvnnts. WI' havn donn so primarily by maintaining a strong defnnsn and nurturing a demonstrably lwtlPr eeonomy-tlw pincnrs that finally squnnzl'd Hast t:u­ropn into tlw conclusion that it nPPdPd pnarn and frPPdom if it hopPd to l'ompl't.P. 
Viewpoint
Monday, November 20, 1989 page 7 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chns Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis CoCCia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor. . Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager .... Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .... .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .. Shannon Roach Sports Editor ... Theresa Kelly Production Manager... .. .. Alison Cocks Accent Editor ................. John Blasi Systems Mgr ...... .Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor. . ...... Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector ................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor .. .... Christme Gill Controller............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­Jectively as pcssible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Ch1ef, Managing Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpcint Editor, Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters, and the lns1de Column present the views of the1r authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
THE U&LY AFTERMATH 
Divestment wreaks havoc on South Africa 
recently that "Sanctions, di­The annual divestment debate vestment, and disinvestment
has started again at Notre Rick Acker 
are doing nothing but turningDame. Th1~rn was a panel dis­South Africa into an economiccussion recently in Grace Hall Freedom and Justice wasteland." The head of theand I have heard that rallies, Zulu nation (the largest tribe inletter writing campaigns. and South Africa) and Inkatha (theotlwr activities are presently deaths from police brutality oldest and, according to thebPing discussed. As W(J confront have increased. and the number 
Economist, largest anti­
tlw divPstment issue again. WI' of political prisoners in South 
. apartheid group in South
must kPPp one cPntral question Africa's jails has more than Africa), Chief Gasha Butheleziin front of us: "Dol's divPstmPnt tripled. 
promotP justin• in South Ironically. it is only now, 
was even less diplomatic. lie said,"To hell with divestment!"
Africa'!" years after the divestment 
Apparently, the only place di­l>iVI'stnw nt, simply statl'd, is movement peaked in 1985-86, vestment remains popular isn•fusing to hold stork in rom­that the South African govern­America.
pan ins that do busirwss with or ment is resuming the cautious in South Africa. Tlw rationale reform program it started in Opposing divestment is nei­
ther popular nor easy. Oppo­bPhind it is that companies fac­thP 1970s. Helen Susman, the 
most promim~nt white anti­nents of divestment are regu­
ing massivl' divestnwnt cam­paigns in Anwrica will cut their apartheid activist inside South but must pay royalties to the .cent of South African blacks larly accused of greed, insensi­
til's with South Africa. This in Africa. takes an even stronger former owners. oppose continued divestment tivity, and even racism, but if turn puts Pconomic pressure on line against divestment. She ar­All of this is making divest­and economic sanctions. Notre Dame really wants to gues that the divestment ment increasingly unpopular in Prominent moderate anti­promote justice in South Africa, 
tlw South African govprnm1•nt, 
South Africa itself. A poll per­apartheid leaders are beginning it must resist the call to divest.
forcing it to takP steps towards mov1~ment actually prevented 
scrapping apartlwid. reform by causing such eco­formed last May by Gallup (one to reflect this shift in popular Tlw first part of the divest­nomic and political turmoil that of the most accurate pollsters opinion. Rick Acker is a second-year 
nwnt Pquation worked well. thn government was forced to in the world) in South Africa Helen Susman said on the law student and is a regular found that a staggering 85 per-
Droves of <'ompanies pulled out shelve its reform efforts to de­Macneil/Lehrer Newshour Viewpoint columnist. of South Afriea. (;prwral Mo­vote mon~ energy to restoring 
tors. Kodak. Cora Cola. and 
prosperity and law and order. IBM arP just thP biggPst namPs. EVPn more disheartening are LETTERS Scores of small<•r companiPs thl' stories of what actually Staff of Lewis Hall tion and patience during a very Kindness after fire havl' IPI't too. In fact. well ovPr happened when the various long night. It is during such a billion dollars of American companies divested. When GM, extends gratitude times that the true meaning of dese~es notice inwstml'nt in South Africa has thP American company m~,>st Dear Editor: the Notre Dame community Dear Editor: bPen dumpPd or removed since h1~avily invested in South Africa, The staff of Lewis Hall would shows itself. Waking up at 2:00 am Thurs­
tlw divestment campaign n~ally pulled out, it was forced to sell like to extend our sincere Chris Mengucci day morning to raging names 
got rolling in tlw early 19ROs. its assets in South Africa at thanks to all the members of Rector not more than one hundred TruP. poor business conditions rock-bottom prices to a newly the Notre Dame community Maura Dougherty yards aw;;ty was quite a scare. in South Africa certainly con­formed company which called who donated their time and Assistant Rector Even more upsetting was the 
tributed to tlw Pxodus. but itself Delta Motors. As soon as support during the fire at St. fact that it was 30 degrees and Anwriran divPstrnent efforts GM was gone, Delta ended its Michael's Laundry. In particu­Keli Bedics Jill Coakley snewing outside. wPn' at IPast partially respon­aflirmative action policy, fired lar, we would like to express Monica Letoto Steffanie Keller Fortunately for the residents 500 black workers, and started of Lewis Hall, the rectors, resi­
sible. our gratitude to the staff and Kirsten Johnson Mary Rielly 
UnfortunatPiy. this was a doing business with the South residents of P.E., P.W., Breen­Bridget Gillespie Linda Romero dents assistants, and students hollow victory. Tlw night of Afriean government (something Phillips, Farley, Knott and Lewis Hall in the Closest dorms were more AmPrican companies was not GM. had always refused to do). Siegfried Halls, who opened Nov. 16, 1989 than hospitable. Offering beds 
followed by a crumbling of Similarly, Ford and Kodak their doors to Lewis· residents, and blankets, many dorms kept
Viewpoint welcomes 
more than a few startled Amrwsty lnt1~rnational. repn~s­businessmen who have gutted Notre Dame Fire Department 
apartlwid. According to sold their operations to local as well as members of the 
Lewisites for the night. So, sion has actually gottl'n worse pre-existing racial justice pro­and Notre Dame Security, 
letters and columns on 
thanks to everyone who was so
a variety of issues. 
helpful to all the girls from
during tlw past decade of di­grams. Other companies, such whose professionalism kept the 
Send your ·thoughts to: 
Lewis.

wstmPnt. A state of emergency as Coca Cola, simply turned 
situation under control. 
Colleen Hogan
Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q,
was declared. the United their South African subsidiaries 
Cristin McCarthy 
Democratic Front and into franchises and sold them We would also like to express 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Congress of South African to local companies, which can our thanks to the residents of 
46556.
Trade Unions were banned, run them however they wish, Lewis Hall for their coopera-DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
e6AJ)l tOOK ATTHIS 8lfT I THINK
ITCM.' 7lf6Y'VC 
rr''3 NIC/3 7HI3
OPeNW UP 1He 

WAY YOU INTeR­
8/!RUN WAUl 
ACT WITH 7H/3 New'3, f}()CJ<S.

I \ 
Lewis Hall 
Nov. 16, 1989 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'A laugh is a precious thing. Why, sometimes it is the only thing we have.' 
Roger Rabbit -Who Framed Roger Rabbit? 
Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, November20, 1989 
Leftist rebels brutalize to ensure U.S. pullout 
By Kevin Smant 
Tlw lwadlirws blarP tlw rwws: "LPI'tists Launch Of'fl~nsive in Iii Salvador." Tlw n•bPis. who an~ actually a coalition of various groups in an umbrPlla organi­zation caliPd tlw Faribundo Marti National Libnration Front (FMLNl. SPizPd Pndav!'s in Sl'wral citiPs, inflicted signif­icant rasualtins on govprnmnnt troops, and I'VI'Il attacked the rnsidl'ncl' of 1·:1 Salvadoran PresidPnt AlfrNio Cristiani. A byproduct of tlwsl' attacks in urban an•as. of rourse. in­eludnd injurins, death and homl'll~ssrwss for hundrPds of civilians. 
Clearly tlw n•lwls krww that civilians would be in the cross­lire during their offl~nsive; in fart. this Vl~ry liknly was a de­

libnratP tactir. :vtarxist-LPninist n•volutionaries for ynars havn usnd tl11~ gnneral populace both as a shiPid and as a wPapon. 
llow, you may ask. can tlw pPopiP bl' used as a weapon? Tlw answer lies within tlw na­tun~ of the typical opponnnts faced by :VIarxist nwolutionar­ies. WPstPrners and "liberals" havn moral standards; if thoy know substantial numbers of civilians will bl' hurt by attacks on rnbel positions. tlwrn will be at the least sncond thoughts about launching such attacks. In fact. many will urgn quitting such a brutal struggle. 
Thus, the curTnnt fascination and not-so-subtle weeping by Amorican news nwdia over civilian deaths in tho El Salvadoran fighting plays right into r1'b1~l hands. Makn thn war barbaric enough (after all, anything is moral if it advancns the "nwolution"), and them will inevitably lw pressurl' on the anti-Marxist sido to quit-and concndn to thn rnbels victorins, which must ultimatnly mnan fi­nal victory. 
Thus far. howewr, tlw El Sal­vadoran govnrnnwnt stands firm, and it is possibli• that it will havn the will to survivn. What is <'VI'n morn intnn~sting is to obsnrve the attitude of tho Amoricans left. "Stay out of Nicaragua." they shout. "Allow all Latin America to run tlwir affairs as thoy see fit. Givn peace a chancn." ntc .. ntc. 
So what will tlwir rnsponsl' bo to this latost rl'rwwal of fighting in El Salvador? Tlw FMLN, as is widPiy known, has its lwadquartl'rs in downtown Manaqua, Niraragua. Cll'arly this latest offpnsivn has hnnn aidnd, supplied, and nncouragnd by thn OrlPga governnwnt. WlwrP, then. arP tlw ITiPs of "Ortega Out of Iii Salvador'"! What 1~vnr happnrwd to "Giw PnacP a Chancn'"! 
Tlw absenrP of any IPftist protnst suggests that tlwir stated goal of "pnarn" is nwrP rlwtorie. What tlwy want in this situation is prPI'isPiy what tlwir ancestors wantPd in ViPtnam: not pnarn, but an ultimatn U.S. pullout and a Communist vir­tory. Most lwliPvPd surh an outronw in YiPlnam would IPad to "ppare and justin•"; tlw fart that it self-nvidnntly has not, dol's not dPtnr tlw fpft from hoping for morl' Marxist virto­rii'S. 
DrPams apparPntly havl' a long lifn-span. So doPs Tom llaydPn-.IPrry Huhin styiP knPP­jPrk anti-Anwriranism. ThP n•­sult'! ThosP on tlw Jpft nying "pparp" do indPPd want it. if your n•ginw is sn1•n as a "Ld'tist" gowrnnH•nt. But tlwy will sanction war against any­orw Sl'l'n as a "rightist". It is as simpll' as that. 
A"erin .')man! is a graduate student in history. 
LETTERS 

Women deserve a chance to pursue any path 
Dear l:'ditor: stabln nor happy. If nitlwr of 
Pdy'! Is tlw woman to ignorf' 
I am writing to express my my parents were not working. I lwr natural taiPnts and JHII'Sllf' disagrennwnt with the views would not be at Notre Damn a rarPnr shl' finds distastPful expressed by Phyllis Schlally in right now. and I feel that most and/or unfull"illing'! \1rs. her lerturo Monday night. I do studnnts are in a similar situa­Srhlally dol's say that a woman not consider myself to bn a tion. may JHirsuP such a carPPr al'tt•r radical feminist, but I was My second disagnwment is lwr rhildrPn an~ grown and nonnthel1~ss profoundly dis­with Mrs. Schlafly's claim that gorw-hut how largP is tlw job turbPd by snvnral Schlafly the only way for a women to markl't for !iO-yPar-old woml'n claims and quotos printed in stay out of poverty is to "get with no PXJWrii'IH'f' in tlwir 
fil'ld ')

the artirlo cowring the lecture married and stay married." (The Obsnrver. Nov. 14). Mrs. This statemnnt is not only de­I find Mrs. Srhlafly's argu­Schlally, it s1•ems, is doing lwr meaning, but blatantly false. I nwnts unfair, dPmPaning, nar­best to destroy women's hard­know of many single women row-mindl'd, and illogical. I'm fought-for lib1~ration, to roplace who hold their own extremely all for marriagP, and I think it with archaic and illogieal well, and who are likely to have it's wondPrful wlwn a womPn values. continued success, whether they rhooSI'S to lwronw a housPwifn, 
I have problems with several marry or not. In addition, Mrs. or lwr spousP is a housPhus­points which Mrs. Schlafly Schlally seems to be implying n ng, rng, a writing. than a 1·.arenr sing? band. But I find it1•qually won• touchnd upon. First is her claim that one should marry for pri­Only these careers, she claims, Also, shouldn't tho father sharp dPrful that tlw tinw has t'Oilll' that tlw single-incomo houso­marily economic reasons. What will allow the flexibility that the rosponsibility of raising a wlwn a woman who wislws to hold rmnains thP best and most is a women to do if she reaches women need to raise her family. family, and thernfore also be rhoosP anotlwr path of lifP may stable form of family life. Un­thirty years and hasn't found a First of all, this elaim is responsible to get a job with do so. Tlw wonwn of my gt•nnr­less the couple is childless, this man she truly loves-marry the completely illogical. What is the flexible hours? ation an~ tlw first to haw tlwsl' 
elaim makes snnse if nitlwr of 11rst rich man sho can find to diffprence between a women My second problem with this opportunitiPs availabiP to tlwm, 
the onn inconw is around save herself from Mrs. working forty hours per week claim is that writing, house­and I find it discouraging that $110,000, or if tlw children do Schlafly's prPdictPd impover­as a nudoar physicist or forty koeping, teaching and nursing onP of our own is fighting to not plan to pursw~ higlwr ~~du­ishnwnt? hours per week as a nurse? I aro lirw for somP. but what if a takl' tlwm away. eation. If one partner's not My third and strongest dis­admit, a job with flexibility woman is predisposed toward working eaus1~s great nconomie agnwnwnt lies with Mrs. would b<' a great asset wlwn engineering or law. or has a 1/arbara ivforan 
strain on the housnhold, tlwn Sehlally's approval of only em­raising a family, but how is a natural flair for coaching bas­.<.,'ierlf"ried !fall the family lifP will bP nnitlwr lain jobs for women-namely career in tnaching morn flexible ketball or for stand-up rom-Nol'. 1:!, llJ89 
AI OS myths approach epidemic proportions 
Dear Hditor: AIDS vietims or carriers. To rn­heinous crime shol.(ld be "psychological counselling and It is truly frightening that 
"Humors an~ spn~ading fast<'f itnratn, casual contact does not strongly punished. But, it is as medical treatment of hormonal people within this community of than AIDS" states an ad for spn~ad AIDS, so there is no ridiculous to extrapolate this imbalance"-shock thnrapy and supposPdly Pdurated pl'opiP AIDS odueation. If one has read logical preclusion to compas­kind of action to all homosexu­testosterone shots?-to c.urn hold and 1~spousn viP.ws as radi­the recent artide "Engaging in sionatn integrated care for als as it would be to condnmn homosnxuals. .Just as tlwir cal and misinf'ornwd as those Deviant Sexual Bl'havior Only thosn so afflicted. all heterosexuals for, say, ma­understanding of AIDS consists of the authors. It continually Spreads AII>S" (Tiw Observer, Tho harmful and baseless chine gunning children in a of little more tlwn reckless beronws obvious that only Nov. HJ), one ran easily sec myths continue as Messrs. llol­school yard. misinformation and rumor, through constant education can that it is mentalities such as loway, Marzolf, and Daniel their concnpts of homosexuality ignorance and prejudiee be those of Messrs. Daninl, Hol­claim that the virus "mutates" In conclusion, Messrs. Mar­are equally sk!'wed. Studios and eradicatnd; tlwn-only then­loway, and Marzolf that are "in the absencn of vaginal flu­zolf, Daniel, and Holloway ox­res.earch have proven that ho­can we begin to effectiwly light chiolly rnsponsible for the epi­ids." That is, plain and simple, plain how homosexuals should mosexuality is not the result of the scourge of AII>S. demic spread of rumor and untrue. The virus does not· bo denied acceptance and un­hormonal imbalance or do­misinformation on our campus. "mutate" within non-traditional derstanding because "they are formed psyche, but is ratlwr an Mike W. Miller 
The entire pn~mise of the (read: anything other than man a danger to everyone's health." orientation with which orw is .'-itanford //all first half of tlwir IPlter is based and woman. missionary-style) Hather, the authors recommend either born or is not. Nol'. 17. JCJRCJ on the ill comparison between sex, nor is vaginal fluid some Hansen's disease-more com­sort of neutralizing agent 
Administrations exercise ad censorship
monly known as IPprosy-and against the virus. The AIDS AIDS. llans1~n's disease is virus is presont in vaginal fluid Dear Editor: zation of Women (NOW) to run the Notre Danw community transmitted by "pxtended peri­and may be caught and spread I read with interest the Inside the ad in question, he would partakP oO whiiP thoy refuse to ods of closo contact." state tho through vaginal contact. Column by Chris Donnelly (The have printed it. I lind this hard advertise aleohol, a product authors. Unless your pnriods of Hegarding blood donations, it Obsorver, Nov. 15). He wroto to believe in light of tlw f'aet which the majority of The Ob­close contact with the A[[}S-in­should l'irst be strnssod, loudly that he was disappointed by the that The Observer does not run servl'r's roaders use'! Don't feetcd include gnnital-anal eon­and clearly, that there is decision of the administrations advertisements for alcoholic claim 'editorial backbone' on tact or intravenous drug use, presently no danger in giving or of :vtarquette and Georgetown beverages because the adminis­an issue which does not evl'n then~ is statistically no risk of rneeiving blood in America. Universities to disallow their tration told them not to. In apply to this rwwspaper when transmission. Since March of 1985, all blood student newspapers to run ad­fact, even tho Alumni-Senior past events have shown this 
has bnon screened and is AIDS­vertisnmonts for a pro-abortion Club, a University-owned bar, fortitude to be lacking. 
Isolation and ostracism may fn~e. rally. I agree completely with cannot use the names of alco­have been the Middle Ages' For proper sensationalism, his point that these newspapers holic beverages in its ads. method for dealing with the authors bring up the issue should be free of administrative How can The Observer claim Todd Graves Hansen's disease in lieu of a of infected persons knowingly censorship in this regard. that it would stand up to tho Graduate .'·itudenl more scientific approach, but and maliciously donating blood. However, Mr. Donnelly states administration on a controver­Department of Aerospace and these are entirely unacceptable Of course, this is a terrible that if The Observer had been sial issue such as abortion Mechanical Engineering as modern day treatment of thing, and anyone guilty of this asked by the National Organi-rights (rights which very few in Nov. 15. 1989 
Accent
Monday, November20, 1989 page 9 

'Romero ' not ·ust a Catholic movie 

Tlw sPtting is 1-:1 Salvador. Ft•bruary 1977. tlw tinw of PIPrtions. SnipPrs. guPrillas. and tlw military arP pn~wnting tlw rommon pPopiP from rPach i ng tlw polls. from c;PIP­brating Mass in publie. and PvPrywlwn~ signs announrn, "Tiw PIPrtions havn bnPn stolen from us." Into this d!'liratn sit­uation. liiiPd with division and uprisings. stnps Archbishop Oscar Honwro. a rnodnrat!' bookworm. a middln-of-tlw­road guy. liP won't rork tlw boat. or incitP tlw pnopl!', or call for governrm~ntal rdorm. Oscar Honwro. sornnonP nice and safP. both for tlw Church and thn governnwnt. Wrong. 
Oscar Hornero was not and a bnlinvPr in the Salvadoran poor. lie was also shot whilP cPlnbrating Mass on March 24, 1<JSO for doing precisely that. 
ThP film, "Romero, " now showing at University Park East, traces Romfwo's story from his appointrnP.nt as Arch­bishop of San Salvador to his death. "Homero" is a power­ful. gripping film. From senne orw, it is violent, and the vio­lPnce--n!'ither gratuitous nor fictional--never stops. It is real. It happened, and the vio­lnnce depicted in the film hap­pnns still. But the film, like its title character. has its gentle moments, too. which show Homero's intimate relationship with the Salvadoran people. In one particularly moving scene, Homero. having just mourned death-squad, asks a young woman who has come to him for help, "What do you think I should do?" "It's so bad here," she says. "Someone has to take a stand." 
Romero does, and his trans­formation from quiet. cautious priest to activist of conviction is portrayed superbly by Raul Julia. Julia, best known for his starring role in the film "Kiss of the Spider-Woman," accepted one-seventh of his usual salary for his starring role. According to producer Father Ellwood Keiser, "In a very real way, he became Oscar Homero." 
Julia's portrayal of the Arch­bishop is powerful precisely be­cause it is so believable. 

Romero was no superhero. When he leads the people past armed soldiers to repossess a church that the military has oc­cupied, he is terrified. He gets impatient and tired. He gets angry, he loses his temper. He is deceived and lied to. He is often wrong. And yet, he is a hero. And not just in the eyes of those who supported him at the start. In of the film's most powerful moments, a guerilla­supporting priest, who origi­nally hated Romero confesses to him and eventually learns to respect and support him. 
Despite the religion and its characters, "Romero" is not just a film for Catholics. It is a film which attests to the power of the individual in the face of injustice, and it raises the con­sciousness of its viewer to the violence which was then and continues now in El Salvador. It has, in the words of Variety, the magazine of the film indus­try, "the potential to become one of the most politically influ­ential films of the 1980's." But in order to realize this potential "Romero" must be seen. It should be seen. 

,J~ CBS hopes 'Major Dad' turns into a major hit 
CBS' Monday night comedy lineup boasts of some of TV's best entertainment. The newest addition to the lineup is "Major Dad." a show that manages to uphold the night's commitment 
JOE BUCOLO 

To be continued 
to quality. 
Gerald McRaney stars as Ma­jor Mac MacGillis on "Major Dad." which airs at 9 p.m. Con­servative and in uniform, Mac marries liberal Polly Cooper (Shanna Reed). A widow, Polly has three daughters who never would have guessed their lives would turn into a scene from "The Sound of Music." Luckily, the live get along very well and it's smooth sailing, much to Mac's liking. 
The storylines explore a mix of topics from family problems to Mac's struggle to keep con­trol of both his family and his Marines. In one episode, Eliza­beth (Marissa Ryan). the oldest daughter, gets tickets to a Fine Young Cannibals concert; how­ever, at the last minute, her date cancels. Mac asks Lt. Holowachuk (Matt Hubren), a young Marine, if he'll escort Elizabeth to the concert. 
The conversation between the two men is hilarious. Mac needs the favor but doesn't want to "owe" Holowachuk a favor in return. The major manages to turn the situation around and makes it seem like he's doing the lieutenant a favor instead. Later, Mac states that there's no need for Holowachuk to ever repay him because that would start an endless chain of fa­vors for one another. "Before you know it," Mac says, "you're delivering a eulogy for someone you don't even like." Holowachuk agrees: "Got it, Sir. I do you a favor and you make my life a living hell." 
Everything seems to go smoothly until, at the concert, Elizabeth gets a crush on Holowaehuk. Polly freaks out at the thought of her daughter being a slave to a sex-crazed Marine. Mac assures her that the lieutenant isn't interested in Elizabeth. "Why don't I give her the good news?" Polly asks. "And you wait outside her win­dow to cateh her when she jumps." 
Mac brings the predicament to Holowachuk's attention. The lieutenant immediately recog­nizes the problem as a result of the famous Holowachuk "twinkle." He explains it's a certain look in his eyes that women can't resist. "Doesn't work on men, Sir," he says. 
"Except on cousin Dwight." 

When Holowachuk goes to Elizabeth's room to handle the problem, he begins by telling her, "Do me a favor. Look me in the nose while I'm talking." After he tells her she's nice, Elizabeth asks, "Then why are you coming here to give me the 'I like you, but not that way' speech?" He replies, "Because I like you ...but not that way." 
The whole situation finally sorts itself out, but not before Elizabeth pulls a prank. Still concerned about her daughter's well-being, Polly enters the room where Holowachuk and Elizabeth are talking. The daughter greets her mother by saying, "It's too late, Mom. I'm pregnant." 
The performances on "Major Dad" are well-done. McRaney and Reed are quite talented and work well together. The premise also adds an interest­ing twist to the traditional family sit-com set-up, while the writing is fresh and witty. 
ABC's "Power Tuesdays" have become unbeatable sources of quality comedy. With shows like "Major Dad" added to its al­ready strong Monday lineup, CBS is well on its way to "Power Mondays." "Major Dad" is a funny and unique comedy, probably one of the season's best. "Major Dad" is a major hit. 
-
----------------~ 
1 page 1 0 The Observer Monday, November20, 1989 ! O'Connor ready to represent ND in cross country NCAAs 

By MARY GARINO 
Sports Writer 

When cross country All­Americans Dan Garrett and Ron Markezich graduated last year, not too many people expected the Notre Dame men's cross country team to be too successful in 1989. 
Enter captain Mike O'Connor. 
O'Connor, a native of Brightwater, N.Y., was the top finisher for the Irish in every meet this year, leading the team to four victories over some of the top teams in the nation while only losing once. His performance was particularly remarkable considering he missed most of last year with stress fractures in his right leg. 
Today O'Connor will be racing in the NCAA Championships in Anapolis, 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Don Grimm will bP the guest on Sportstalk tonight from 8 to 9 p.m. on WVFI-AM 640. Join co-hosts Jamey Rappis, Vic Lombardi and Mike Sieja as they preview the Miami game. QuPstions and comments are welcome at 239-6400. 
lnterhall football equipment will not be taken at the NVA office. The next return date will be after Thanksgiving. 
Irish Insanity will meet at 7:30p.m. tonight in Montgomery Theatre of Lafortune. Basketball cheering section shirts will be sold during the meeting. 
Women's track and field will meet at 7:30p.m. tonight in the Lyons Hall lounge to discuss the beginning of practice. Call x2870 for more information. 
---------·-----------------­
Md., looking to become the sophomore year despite being "He's a horse in practice," third Irish All-American in overshadowed by Garrett and noted junior runner Paul three years. Markezich. Finger. "He comes in and takes 
The team captain will be The loss of O'Connor to injury charge and that's good for the representing an Irish team that last season combined with a young team we have, especially had an awesome season but fell season ending injury to Pat the freshmen." short of qualifying for the Kearns meant that the Irish Today's NCAAs will be a NCAAs. could have had an even better tough test for O'Connor, who 
season then they already did, has to place in the top 25 to 
"We had a strong team, but when they placed ninth in the qualify as an All-American. unfortunately cross country NCAAs. "He can attack this race season comes down to one day But O'Connor bounced back completely differently than if and we didn't race well," this season and took command we had a team that qualified," O'Connor said of the District IV of the Irish. Piane noted. "All he has to do is meet last weekend. O'Connor· "He's been the most run to run well. instead of qualified as an individual. consistent runner for us all worrying about placing in the 
O'Connor, an accounting season, as predicted," said top 10." 
major, came to Notre Dame Irish head coach Joe Piane. O'Connor's leadership ability because of the combination of "He's a leader not only at the does not go unnoticed athletics and academics and meets but in practice. He tries immediately had an impact on to convince the other runners "He's a horse in practice," 
the cross country squad. He to do their best." noted junior runner Paul was the first Irish finisher in all Finger. "lie comes in and takes but one race during his O'Connor's leadership ability charge and that's good for the freshman season, and does not go unnoticed among young team we have, especially continued run well his his teammates. the fmshmen." 
U.S. soccer qualifies for finals with 1-0 win 
PORT OF SPAIN,  throw-in and Caligiuri  victory on May 19, 1985 at  
TRINIDAD (AP) -The  raced down the left side  Torrance, Calif.  
United States advanced to  before sending a curving,  The United States, which  
the World Cup finals for  dipping shot that went into  played in the 1930, 1934  
the first time in 40 years by  the upper right corner.  and 1950 World Cups,  
beating Trinidad and  Michael Maurice, the  beeame the 24th and final  
Tobago 1-0 Sunday on Paul  Trinidad goalkeeper, was  team to qualify for next  
Caligiuri's goal in the 30th  in the middle of the net and  year's finals, which begin  
minute.  had no chance to stop the  June 8, 1990 in Milan, Italy.  
Trinidad, playing before  shot.  Cameroon qualified  
a boisterous overflow  earlier Sunday, beating  
crowd of 35,000 at  Caligiuri is a 25-year-old  Tunisia 1-0.  
National Stadium, needed  from Diamond Bar, Calif.,  
only a tie to become the  who played for SV Meppen  The North and Central  
smallest nation ever to  of the West German second  American and Carribean  
qualify for the World Cup.  division before rejoining  region gets two spots in the  
But Caligiuri spoiled the  the National Team full-time  24-team field. Costa Rica  
national celebration with a  in May. He also beat  finished first at 5-2-1 and  
spectacular left-footed  Trinidad, and Maurice, by  the Americans were second  
shot.  scoring the only goal in a  at 4-1-3. Trinidad ended up  
Tab Ramos made a  1-0 World Cup qualifying  with a 3-2-3 record.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day trom 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
TOP TEN REASONS TO GET TO 
Red 4 door 1980 Honda Accord PARAOTHEADS FOREVER!!!! KNOW AL BETIER: LOST: Man's NO antiqued class 
ring, has my name inside. If found Call "3619
I NOTICES PERSONALS 
1o. Bakes a mean zucchini bread 
HiAg! 9.Knows how to handle Mr. Hand
please contact Pat Kujawa at 723 
WOADPROCESSJNG Flanner (x1159). Reward offered. ADOPTION, A LOVING 272-8827 Thank you! One way plane ticket from ALTERNATIVE. 81 L ALUM OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 8.Knows almost everyone Hartford, CT to South Bend WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT. mo.Summer, Yr.round,AII 
?.Always has great stories to tell WORDPAOCESSING January 15, 1990. $150 or best LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO Countries,AII fields, Free info. 6.Has a pumpkin full of candy 272·8827 
offer. Call277·7157 and leave ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona 5.Sharp as a tack message. BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF Del Mar CA 92625. 
WANTED 

4.0oesn'tlike beer, but drinks it TEXTBOOKS ATIENTION: EXCELLENT YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW 
anyway BOUGHT AND SOLD INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, Driving Back to NO in January? 3.Free for dinner on Tues. nights Pandora's Books WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646·1700 CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT
Wanna get home quick for 2.Knows Oompa-Loompa song by corner of N.D. ave and Howard DEPT. P5868 602-482-0905. I need a ride back from Ft.
THANKSGIVING I have a heart one-way ticket to PHILA­1.Awesome smile (KEY attribute) 
Lauderdale after Christmas Break. lots of papertlacks in stock! BE ON T.V. many needed for GOING ABROAD SALE Will share expenses. Call Will at 
233-2342 

DELPHIA airport-TUES.21 JOEY. I only know one Joey, how
CHEAP! #272-9455 many do you know? It is over commercials. Now hiring all ages. 283·1474. 
For casting info. call (615) 779-IBM Proprinter XL ($250) & thank God!! So, when are you
7111 Ext. T-1481 IBM PC Jr. w/ 256K ($300), (OBO) Watch out all you chicks, 
going to give me the $50?
GIRL SCOUT COOKIES. 
Fitness USA 

WOWERS is 21 and has a new HELP ME GO TO HORSE CAMP. 
ATIENTION ·HIRING! MANY PROGRAMS INCLUDED ... haircut !!! Buy him a cold one or
Ladies Division 

To Steve, Joel, Tommy and Dan $2/BOX.
Government jobs -your area. Call Christine 283-2845 ten. Happy B-Day BIG DAN. 
Is looking for Aerobic Instructors Thanks for the awesome turkeyCALL ANGELA 234-9669 OR LV. 

$17,840-$69.485. Call 1-602-838­dinner Thursday night. Here'sand part·time Fitness Instructors MESSAGE.
8885. EXT A6262. EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK another toast to friends.
Call 291-8800 Mon. Wed. Fri. 

READING BOOKS AT HOME. 
Love, T ricia 
or277·3131 Tues. Thurs. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B340. Send a personal to a friend 
Tracie 
Wanted to Buy: studying abroad. Call Kara at 1825 
Karen
TICKETS 
TYPING AVAILABLE. Political Buttons and Posters ADOPTION · Well-educated for details. 287·4082. Old and New couple eager to adopt a baby.
My brother needs one or two Going to Pittsburgh forT-giving?
Contact: Rob Wulf 283·1480 Cheerful home full of books. Terry, you were great, especially Miami tickets. Please call Tim at Please give us a ride. Call4914 
TYPING term Flexible on sharing information the improv! 
288-5320 as soon as possible
papers/reports/letters/resumes with birthmother about child. Our -a secret admirer 
Losing an Apart. or Housemate at TAICIA
Pick up & delivery available. 277 · adoption agency can provide
the semester? I'm interested in FOR SALE: Sorry 1 took so long .Please reply 
5134 10am-8pm counseling and references. Please Hairy and Dum·dum, 
taking his spot. Danny x 1513 Many MIAMI Ga's with your number,soon. 
Bake me brownies and I'll Call Keira 2169 Steve(the OJ at Marks St) call collect 309-827 ·3135 do your laundry for you. 
eves/wknds for profile/photo. 
-The Dragonlady 
James and Hollis. 
LOST/FOUND 

An umbrella ... A watch ... 
FOR RENT 

FOUND: WATCH IN THE TOP$ ""LONG ISLAND"" 
2 BEDROOM HOUSE 5 MINUTES A teddy bear named Aloyisius ...
HEISBUAGH PARKING LOT ALL HOME GA'S Need ride T-giving. Will share$. 
FROM CAMPUS. 200 DEPOSIT, and $5 worth of quarters. 
CALL DORTHY @ 239-6640 312-920·9350 PLEASE!! Joni 2773 
325 MONTH. 236-3616. 
Happy Thanksgiving! TPL survives the exodus. 
Lost NO ring call Tim at 288·5320 ...Please Male/female housemate needed I simply must have This weekend is the perfect 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY PHILIP ButwhataboutJake???
for next semester. Own bedroom, 2 f',1iami tickets opportunity to discuss buying an 
ALEXANDER! Maybe, just maybe, 
18 K necklace with charms lost--­close to campus, house in great caiiTed@ 1204 IBM PS/2. 
if you're lucky, I'll be nice to you ps: Yer unlikely shade of red hairPlease return to Stephanie @ 284· condition. 120/mo. +Uiil. 
seeing as. it is your birthday. But looked really good throughout the 
4431 please call 289-4621 ALUM in NEED of NO/MIAMI The PS/2 can help you get 
then again, you're tough, you can night.
tickets!!! Call on weekdays during coursework done more quickly so 
take it, even though you aren't
FOUND: NO ACADEMIC BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. the day COLLECT at# that you'll have more time for 
even going to be around for the big Aide to ROCHESTER, NY needed 
EXCELLENCE T-SH1AT IN 219·291-7153. 202-457-5729. Do not hesitate to yourself and finals. 
2·1 on the 22nd. Have fun in Miami for break x2039NORTH DINING HALL ON NOV. 6. call. Your tickets will be bought!! 
and again Happy Birthday. 
CALL CHRIS 1072. PS/2's are available for immediate 
(need I sign this?? Does the fact TOP 10 QUOTES FROM ROOM
delivery so you can start saving
FOR SALE 

that it is positively dripping with 274, QUEEN'S COURT: 
WATCH FOUND BETWEEN time right away. 
MIAMI TIX NEEDED sarcasm in parts give it away?) 10. HONKIN'
NIEWLANO SCIENCE AND BOSTON ANYONE? Rich Alum hates the 'Canes 9. AWAY WITH YOU. 
LA FORTUNE ON MON 11/13/89 roundtrip plane ticket SB to Boston This weekend talk to your parents 
Call Ted 256-5727 8. LIVE A UTILE.
leaving 11/21·$150 or b/o STUDENTS WANTED TO about purchasing a PS/2 and then 
7. I WANT A TOY BOX FULL. 
CALL 2489 TO IDENTIFY call Myndy @2472 MARKET NO CALENDAR OF come talk to us ....... RIT from SB to Orlando 6. NO EXERTION. 
EVENTS. CALL ALLEN 277-4469. 
Nov. 23·28; $150???? 5.ANAGAV.
LOST: gold nng with 3 sm rubies MACINTOSH 512K IBM PS/2 Demonstration 
Call Pam x2732 or x2741 4. DON'T HATE ME BECAUSE I'M 
somewhere between 'brare, WI PRINTER & ACCESS. CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable LaFortune Hall BEAUTIFUL.
O'Shag. North, and Lewis on $750 272·2172 atmosphere, daily & weekly Sorin Room 3. TOO MUCH CHATIER.
11/15. Please call x 4161. Thank specials, pool table, English darts, Thursday, November 30th 2. YOU'LL PAY .....HEAVY FINES. 
you and great company. 234-3541 7-9pm 1. WE LIKE IT HERE. 
-

----------.-----------~--------­
Monday, November20, 1989 The Observer page 11 
Browns tie Kansas City 10-.1 0 to stay atop AFC Central 
tAP)-Surprise! Nick Lowery Igwebuike's fourth field goal misses three field goals in the of the game ended a five-game 
\I

final seconds Sunday. losing streak for Tampa Bay 
Surprise! A great day for the that started after a victory over Bays: The Packers win in their Chicago Oct. 8. first visit to Candlestick Park in 15 years and the Buccaneers Eagles 10, Vikings 9 win at Soldier Field for the first Randall Cunningham's time since 1979. deflected pass turned into a 3­
"We blew it," Cleveland yard touchdown to Cris Carter defensive lineman Michael Dean with 2:32 remaining and Perry said after the first tie of Philadelphia won at home. the NFL season, 10-10 with Minnesota's Herschel Walker Kansas City. returned the opening kickoff 93 
Actually, Lowery blew it for yards for a touchdown. The tlw Chiefs. lie bP-gan the sp,ason Eagles rallied to win with their as thP second-most accurate first offensive touchdown in kiekPr in history. but missed eight quarters. Both teams are twice with four seconds left in 7-4. regulation and missed again with thrPe sP-conds left in Rams 3 7, Cardinals 14 overtime. Jim Everett passed for 308 
"This is a tough stadium to yards, including a pair of kick in," Lowery said of muddy touchdown strikes to Hen!"} Cleveland Stadium. "The last Ellard. and Los Angeles routed kiek in overtimP was like trying Phoenix at home. to kick out of a sand trap." Michael Stewart made a 41­
ThP Browns, with their first yard interception return for a tie since 1973. stayed on top of touchdown on the third play the AFC Central at 7-3-1. from scrimmage. The Rams, Luis Zendejas missed a 53-yard recoveries to beat visiting Los 20 points in the last eight 
Kansas City. led by former who picked off three other field goal attempt on the final Angeles. minutes. ClevPland coach Marty passes. led 24-0 at halftime. play of the game for the The Oilers (7-4) won their Jason Staurovsky's third field SchottPnheimPr, is 4-6-l. Cowboys (1-10). third straight game for the goal, a 34-yarder, cut Buffalo's
Colts 27, Jets 10 Sammie Smith's 1-yard TO first time since 1985. lead to 24-23 with 3:06 to go.Packers 21, 49ers 17 At Indianapolis, Jack run early in the fourth quarter Hurst intercepted a pass by Jim 
Don Majkowski scooted eight Trudeau passed for 255 yards helped the Dolphins (7 -4) Saints 26, Falcons 17 Kelly on the next play.yards on a quarterback draw and a touchdown and Eric overcome a 14-10 deficit. Buford Jordan scored two for the go-ahead score with Dickerson became the first touchdowns in the fourth Steelers 2p7Chargers 
11:55 to play. his second runner this season to gain Giants 15 Seahawks quarter and Dalton Hilliard ran touchdown run. more than 1 00 yards against 3 for a career-high 158 yards as Pittsburgh's offense, held 
The Packers (6-5) stopped a the Jets. Phil Simms threw a 16-yard New Orleans won at Atlanta. without a touchdown for nine six-game winning streak by the Dickerson, bothered most of touchdown pass to Howard Jordan's 1-yard TO run with quarters, moved 91 yards and 49ers (9-2). the season by a sore hamstring, Cross on the game's opening 2:38 left clinched the fifth scored on Merril Hoge's 1-yard 
rushed for 131 yards and one series and New York held victory in six games for the run with 6:17 remaining as the
Bucs 32, Bears 31 
TO, his second highest rushing Seattle in check at the Saints (6-5). New Orleans has Steelers won at home. total of the season. Meadowlands. won six straight against the Rod Woodson also scored on Falcons (3-8). an 84-yard kickoff return for
Tampa Bay beat Chicago 
Dolphins 17, Cowboys the Steelers (5-6). Jim
twice in a season for the first 
Patriots 33, Bills 24 McMahon threw two
14 Oilers 23, Raiders 7
time. The visiting Buccaneers Dan Marino completed his Warren Moon threw two Maurice Hurst returned an touchdown passes to Anthony
(4-7) rallied after Mike 
Tomczak's third touchdown second "Hail Mary" pass for a touchdown passes and Houston interception 16 yards for the Miller for San Diego (4-7). The touchdown this season and took advantage of three go-ahead touchdown with 2:49 teams began the game as the
pass in the final 4:27 for the 
Miami went on to win in Dallas. interceptions and two fumble left as Ne~ England ralli(:ld for NFL's worst two offenses.
Bears (6-5). 

A MEMORIAL MASS WILL BE OFFERED AT FIVE O'CLOCK THIS AFTERNOON IN THE CHAPEL OF ALUMNI HALL BY REV. EDWARD A. MALLOY, C.S.C. PRESIDENT, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOR THE SIX JESUIT PRIESTS AND TWO WOMEN MURDERED LAST THURSDAY IN EL SALVADOR. 
__________._,________ 
page 12 The Observer Monday, November 20, 1989 
ND men's, women's swim teams have successful weekend 
The women's team was not as 
higher level of competition." 
By MARY GARINO 

fortunate as the men on Friday Welsh pointed :-out that the
Sports Writer 

night. With a double dual meet, 400-yard relay broke the Notre the Irish faced both Wisconsin Dame record set last week in
Both Notre Dame swim teams came close to having perfect 
and University of Northern that event, while Shauna Michigan. Despite obliterating Stephens and Becky Wood both
weekends. 

The men's and women's swim Wisconsin 113-27, the Irish equalled their personal best teams continued to turn in 
could not defeat Northern times in two events. stellar performances, but the Michigan. In one of the closest results were mixed. races of the year, the Irish lost On Saturday night, the men's 
The women's team (5-2) split 71-69. squad completed a good a double dual meet on Friday "The double dual meet weekend with a 143-62 victory night in Milwaukee, losing to resulted in a lopsided score for over Loyola at Rolfs Aquatic Northern Michigan by two us," Welsh said. "We couldn't Center. The Irish lost only one points despite record-setting line up to beat both t(ilams. We event, the 200-yard breastroke, 
Tom Penn Becky Wood
times, while blowing away the had to try and beat one team en route to the victory. University of Wisconsin­head coach Tim Welsh said of and take what we could get Irish squad and those four 
Welsh said that one of the
Milwaukee. his team's performance. He against the other. The result seconds decided the meet. The men's team racked up singled out Brian Rini, who had was that we came out of the Becky Wood had two firsts primary goals of the evening 
and Tanya Williams had three was to give swimmers a chancetheir seventh win without a two victories, and Tom Penn, meet with Wisconsin with a to swim in different events, anddefeat by beating Wisconsin who helped the Irish 400-yard lopsided score." in the Irish effort. 
and Midwestern Welsh considerable the results impressive.
Collegiate relay to a lirst place linish on had were Conference rival Loyola. the lirst event of the meet. Wisconsin did not win one praise for Jenny Kipp and the Freshman Bill Campbell won 
The Irish men lost only live The Irish did not lose an event on the evening, and rest of the divers. Kipp won the 200-yard freestyle, races as they pounded event until the lifth race. the meanwhile, the Irish were both the one meter and the although he is usually a Wisconsin 177-118 on Friday 1 00-yard breaststroke. swimming for their lives three meter competitions, distance swimmer, while Greg night in Milwaukee. Eight against Northern Michigan. keeping the Irish close enough Cornick placed second in the 
different Irish swimmers had at "Looking over the meet UNM won the lirst three events, so that they could still pull out 200-yard individual medley. least one lirst place linish and results, I see a difference in the and the Irish battled back with a victory. Ed Veome won the three meter two teams," Welsh said. "It's three firsts of their own. The The meets marked the last diving event as the Irish cruised primarily a difference in meet was so close that the last "What was a key factor for tests for the Irish before the 
to another victory. balance. Our program has been event was the deciding factor. us was that we swam very well National Catholics next month. 
"Because of injuries, we left a able to grow with a balanced In the 400-freestyle relay. and I know we're going to win Welsh said that there would be few swimmers home and entry in each event. Their four seconds separated the one of these close meets one a time trial today for both important swimmers stepped program has grown, but it has first place Northern Michigan day," Welsh noted. "In the teams to help determine the up to take their places," Irish holes in it." squad from the second place process we're stepping up to a rosters. 
them," said Schafer. " We certainly could use a bigger
Hockey 

guy. Does anyone know if Chris continued from page 16 Zorich has a pair of ice skates?" 
The Huskies were linally able The Irish needed Zorich or to pierce Madson's armor and some kind of bigger bodies tie the score at one 2:35 into Saturday night as the bigger St. the third period. Cloud players put some 
But the Irish sent the crowd tremendous hits on the smaller into a frenzy with a goal by Irish. Notre Dame held their Sterling Black at 8:41. Pat own in that respect, but St. Arendt passed out of the corner Cloud State registered an 8-2 to Hob Copeland who was win. eirele-high along the right boards. Copeland then slid the The Huskies broke out of the puck across the slot .to Black gate quickly and scored three who was camped on the goals in the lirst 10 minutes. goalie's doorstep, and put it The Irish cut the lead to 3-1 by past him on the left side. the end of the period as the 
streaking Kevin Patrick took a 
Dan Sawyer was sent off for pass from David Bankoske at high sticking at 9:58, but the 13:45 and slid it into the net. Irish used the shorthanded The Irish needed to get the situation to their advantage. lirst goal of the second period, Bankoske picked up the puck at but St Cloud St. struck early at his own blue line and raced up 3:43 of the period. Madson the right side. He then passed made the initial save on Jordan across to Lou Zadra on the left Wingate, but Herm Finnegan wing, and Zadra fired a low was there to poke in the shot past St. Cloud goalie Mike rebound. O'Hara. 
The Huskies extended the 
This proved to be the biggest lead to 5-1 at 16:14 when goal of the game as the Huskies Leonard Esau's slapshot narrowed the Irish lead to 3-2 bounced off Madson's shoulder at the end of the power play. into the net. Sterling Black There was a scramble in front scored the other Irish goal in of the net and Brian Cook was the third period. able to push the puck under Madson's pads. The Irish Overall, Schafer was happy defense rose to the occasion with the split for the weekend. again and stymied the Huskies "We had a very emotional over the last eight minutes to effort last night, and tonight preserve the victory. we couldn't muster that same 
emotion," said Schafer. "For 
After the game Schafer was the weekend I'd say mission pleased. but also realized the accomplished and lesson Irish had another game to play learned. As we play against top the next night. Division I teams more, we have 
" We didn't dominate them to remember it's a two game and we didn't out-muscle effort." 
Happy Birthda 

21 years later and still not afraid to march to the beat of a different drummer! 
Love, Mom and Dad 

Monday, November 20, 1989 The Observer page 13 
South Bend. "Every time we go 31-17 with 13:13 left in the toward the goal line, he's the game.
Line 
one we give the ball to." The Irish added another field continued from page 16 Notre Dame continued to goal in the fourth quarter as waltz across Beaver Stadium in Watters' 34-yard scamper 
After Penn State's next drive the second half. The Irish drove down the sideline set up a 19­resulted in a 38-yard Ray 6 7 yards to the Penn State 4-yarder from Hackett. Tarasi field goal early in the yard line in their opening drive Penn State scored once more, ­second quarter, the Irish after the intermission, but Jim with a series of Thomas carries reached the end zone again. Deter's interception of a Rice setting up a five-yard Hice and Watters opened the pass ended the threat. touchdown pass from Bill to series with runs of 17 and 19 But Stan Smagala, who led Terry Smith. After missing a yards, respectively. and the Irish with eight tackles, two-p.oint conversion, Penn Watters went 12 yards around recovered a Gerry Collier State trailed 34-23 with 4:31 to right to give the Irish a 14-10 fumble two plays later, and play. lead. Notre Dame went 14 yards for The Lions' attempted onside 
"I thought we rose to the the score, making it 28-10. Rice kick failed to go the required challenge," said Holtz. "They faked a handoff to Raghib 10 yards, and the Irish ran scored. and we came back and Ismail and leaned back from most of the clock on a 44-yard scored. and then we did it after the 1-yard line for the score. drive that ended with a Pat the field goal." Tom Bill, who replaced Sacca Eilers fumble on the Penn State 
From there, Notre Dame's late in the first half, directed 4-yard line. 
defense took charge, holding the Lions to a 65-yard Penn State to a total of nine touchdown on Penn State's By that time, the Irish already yards in the Lions' final three ensuing series. Bill finished 6-had wrapped up their first win 
possessions of the half. of-14 passing for 56 yards; at Penn State since 1913 and Anthonv Johnson and Scott Sacca was 4-of-6 for 46 yards. were looking ahead to a huge Kowalkowski also partially contest next weekend. blocked consecutive Doug "I was going to play both "Every time we travel, we're llelkowski punts, leaving the quarterbacks," said Paterno. going to see people wanting to Irish with excellent field "They both had practiced well. upset the number-one team," position for the remainder of They're both coming along said offensive guard Tim the half. nicely, and I thought they both Grunhard, one of the leaders of 
Notre Dame scored once played well." the offensive line that keyed more in the half, when Anthony Notre Dame again answered Saturday's triumph. "We play Johnson cashed in from the one a Penn State score with points Penn State and hear how it's on a 4th-and-goal situation. of its own. The Irish moved 84 the seniors' last game and Blair Johnson carried the ball five yards in a drive that consumed Thomas' last game. Miami can times in the nine-play drive. more than six minutes and say all they want. We're going 
"We call him 'Money,' " Rice ended in a Bill Hackett 22-yard to do our talking with our said of the senior fullback from field goal that put the Irish up helmets-on the field." 
were the mainstay of this game. They've always come 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
through when we've needed 
"They're good and have a lot them." of diffenmt options, a lot of Johnson echoed the Rocket's offense, and they have a lot of comments. guns," said Penn State coach "In all the big games, the Joe Paterno. "I think Johnson offensive line has come through is the best fullback in the for us," said the senior country. There are an awful lot fullback. "If you look at our of people in there that can films, our backs hardly get really run." touched until two to three 
Paterno thought his team's yards past the line of problems came from poor scrimmage." tackling, not from Penn State Notre Dame's starting problems at the line of lineman averages more than scrimmage. 270 pounds per person. But the 
"I thought we blocked them Irish benefitted most from pretty well," he said. "It wasn't their experience on the line. as if they jammed it down our Holtz said early in the week throat. We handled a lot of that he was concerned about their straight-ahead stuff Penn State's defense because pretty well. We didn't tackle the Lions could throw so many well." different fronts at an offense. 
Paterno would have had a That's where experience made hard time finding anyone to an impact. agree with him on that count. Guards Tim Grunhard and The general assumption after Tim Ryan, center Mike Heldt the game was that Notre Dame and tackle Dean Brown all had won because of its played together on the line last dominance in the trenches. year, with tackle Mike Brennan 
"They were tremendous," the only first-year starter. _ said Ismail. "They did "Penn State showed a lot of exceptionally well and definitely different fronts, and if you 
lines up between Heldt and
· Are you stuck in South Bend lor Thanksgiving1 
Brown. "I knew exactly what Dean and Mike were thinking." 
That kind of experience also makes a line ready for any defensive strategy. 
"We've seen about any
Here•s your salvation: 
defense possible," said Brown. "I'd be interested in seeing another defense because,
LI..L?@f;jfumJGJw ©nGJf;jf;j ©cvrnw®~naf;j 
frankly I think we've seen just about everything." Said Watters: "They're 
seasoned veterans, and they play like it. They make calls on the field, make che'ckoffs, they 
~L!1 fur~I])LEf;j~~\!7~W~ 1r~~~ U® @fu~®GJ~® 
• know what they're doing and are just very businesslike." 
GO WILD AT THE LOOP! 
Even Penn State's Blair Thomas, a pretty good tailback in his own right, could sense
You can Christmas shop in a real mall. visit 
the Irish dominance on the line as he watched from the 
museums and other places of interest. • sideline. 
"Our defense didn't play well today," said Thomas, "but you have to give their offensive line 
Buses leave at 9:00a.m. on Friday. November 24. • a lot of credit for the holes they 
• were making for their running
Make your reservations by Tuesday. November 21 backs and quarterback. You have to give Notre Dame credit 
at the Freshman Year of Studies. 
for a lot of things they did today." · 




The Observer Monday, November 20, 1989
page 14 

Howard defeats defendi 
By RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 
There is a new champion in women's interhall football, as Howard defeated defending champion Lewis 14-7 to garner the 1989 crown. The game remained close throughout. with the outcome decided in the final minute. 
On their opening two drives both teams played cautiously, sticking to their running games. 
Lewis put together an impressive drive on "their third possession. Sophomore running back Colleen Danaher had a 20­yard run and tight end Sue Lippa added two receptions to move the ball down to the Howard's 20. 
Then a surprise call caught Howard off guard. Center Christine Wallrneyer executed the eenter sneak to perfection and ran 20 yards for the score. Lippa added the extra point to give Lewis the early 7-0 lead. 
On the ensuing kickoff, freshman Marianne Haggerty did a great impression of another Irish kick returner. by nying for a 60-yard return down to the Lewis five yard line. 
"We try to do that every time-go with the blocks and see what comes out of it," said Haggerty describing her run. 
Running back Becky Miller appeared to score on the next 

~~~~ 
The Observer 1Trey Raymond 
Alumni intercepted a pass from Cavanaugh's quarterback Chris Fox to give Alumni the ball on the 40 yard line. Alumni could not convert the turnover for points but held on to win the championship 16-6. 
Hoosiers win 103-91 over Soviets 
play, but the touchdown was wiped out by an inadve-rtent whistle. Miller would not be denied, though, and ran it in on the next play. Howard went for the two-point conversion, but Miller was stopped this time. 
It remained a defensive battle into the second half. but Howard scored on its second possession of the second half. 
Again, Haggerty was in the middle of it, sweeping down the side line on a 20-yard reverse for the touchdown. The score was set up by an 18-yard run by Miller. Howard again went for the two-point conversion, but this time Miller dived in for the score giving her team the lead at 14-7. 
Lewis looked to strike right 
back  on  the  next series. Two  
runs  by Danaher and  an  18­ 
yard  reception  by  Lippa  

brought the ball down to the Howard 10 yard line. 
After three running plays, . Lewis had the ball at the two yard line. Down by a touchdown with only 3:30 remaining, they needed a touchdown and went for it on fourth down. 
A power right formation was set up and quarterback Lynn Arnold scored what appeared to be the tying touchdown. Unfortunately a Chicken was nagged for illegal motion and the score was wiped out. 
The ball was moved back to the seven for the game deciding 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (APJ ­Freshman Chris Beynolds scored six of his 15 points in a decisive second-half spurt Sunday, helping No. 14 Indiana defeat the Soviet National Team I 03-91. 
Indiana led only 76-74 with 
8:42 to play, but outscored the Soviets 13-2 over the next 4:10, capping the surge when Chris Lawson made two free throws to give the Hoosiers an 89-76 lead with 4::~2 to play. 
The Soviets. 0-7 on their currnnt tour of the United Statns. pulled within 94-89 on a 3-pointer by Valeri Tikhonenko with I:56 to play but could draw no closer. 
Freshman Lawrence Fundnrburkn led Indiana's 

balanced scoring with 19 points and Pat Graham. another of the Hoosiers' eight freshmen, had 
16. Matt Nover, who was red­shirted last year and has four years of elibibility, and Calbert 
Cheaney.  another  freshman.  
had 12 points each.  
Guards  Gundars  Vetra  and  

Tiit Sokk scored 25 points each for the Soviets and Tikhonenko added 23. 
The Soviets, who won on a forfeit when Indiana coach Bob Knight was ejected with three technicals in 1987 and then refused to allow his team to play the second half, opened a nine-point lead in the first half with the help of two technkals called against Knight. 
Indiana trailed 19-18 after a basket by Georgi Retsov with 

13:06 to play. Knight was then called for back-to-hack technicals 15 seconds apart and Sokk made all four free throws. The Soviets then got the ball out of bounds and Sokk made two more free throws after he was fouled by Heynolds with 12:49 to play. 
The Soviets went on to lead 27-18 on a layup by Tikhonenko, but Indiana rallied to tie the game at 33 on a 3­pointer by Pat Leary and held a 4 7-45 halftime lead on another Leary 3-pointer at the buzzer. 
The Hoosiers, who open their regular season at home against Miami of Ohio on Saturday. took the lead for good 77-76 on a Cheaney free throw with 7:04 to play. 
The Observer I Trey Raymond 
Howard grabbed the women's interhall football title over Lewis, the defending champions, by keeping the ball on the ground. Howard's Becky Miller was the catalyst ic its 14-7 win. 
play. Arnold faded back and · and proceeded to run the clock noated a pass to Lippa in the out by giving the ball to Miller. corner of the endzone, but the ball was just out of her reach, "We carne up with the big falling harmlessly to the plays when we needed them. We ground. had the linebackers blitzing all 
"We figured they'd pass on game to stop their run up the fourth and seven and go to Sue. middle and it worked," said A lot of credit goes to defensive llardar on his defensive coordinator Chris Hardar," strategy. said Howard coach Tom Zidar on the deciding play. Lewis captain Jill Bnth Hayns 
Howard took over on downs was gracious in defeat, saying, 
Alumni IH champions with 16-6 win 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

On an ice cold November afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium. in front of hundreds of rowdy fans, Alumni (6-1) topped Cavanaugh (5-1 J 16-6 to seize the 1989 men's interhall football crown. 
On its first possession. Alumni drove 65 yards in 13 plays, thanks largely to the running abilities of tailback Dave Ludwig, and scored when fullback Mark Boss swept around the right side into the end zone. Quarterback Jim Passinault, who did not play in Alumni's 7-0 loss to Cavanaugh during the regular season, then added the two-point conversion, giving the Dogs an early 8-0 lead. 
Turnovers hampered the offensive efforts of both teams. On the third play from scrimmage, Cavanaugh quarterback Chris Fox had his first pass of the game intercepted, giving Alumni the ball inside the Cavanaugh 40 yard line. However, the Dogs were unable to capitalize on the miscue, as Mark Boss fumbled 
on second down. putting the 
ball back in the hands of 
Cavanaugh. 

This time it was the Crusaders who failed to capitalize, as they were forced to punt. Alumni then took over at its own 30 yard line, traveling 70 yards in five plays for its second touchdown. Alumni quarterback Jim Passinault hit tight end John Carretta coming out of the backfield for the score. /\gain, Passinault added the two-point conversion, and Alumni IPd 16­0 at the half. 
Howevnr, Cavanaugh was not to be written off. as they rambled 65 yards in six plays. Slashing runs by Trent Boneau and Marty Kelly set up a first and 10 at the Alumni 40 yard line, when quarterback Chris Fox hit a streaking Roger Ptak, putting Cavanaugh on the board. The swarming Alumni 
·defense held on the two-point 
eonversion, preserving the lead 
at 16-6. 

The rest of the contest was a defensive struggle, as both quarterbacks were sacked a combined total of four times. 
~ 

An MBA degree from Ohio State can bring you greater opportunities, 
What 
income, and career challenges. Our nationally recognized MBA program 
Can An offers merit-based fmancial aid and has no prerequisites. We enroll both business and nonbusiness majors. 
MBA 
And many of our graduates have gone on to jobs with established 
Degree leaders like IBM, Goldman Sachs, AT&T, and Procter & Gamble. For a free brochure about our programs,
Do For 
please write or call: 

You? 
Director, MBA Programs The Ohio State University 
112 Hageny Hall 
1775 College Road 

T · H · E 
OHIO 
Columbus, OH 43210-1399
STA1E 
614-292-8511

UNIVERSITY 
"They were a really good wam and deserved to win, but I think our tnarn tri1>-d tlwir best and they gave thnir all, never giving up." 
"It was really a team effort. Sheila Kennan. Marianrw Haggerty, and th1~ offnnsiv1~ line really played well. but we'w really pleasnd with everyone's effort," said Zidar of his winning team. 
Neither team was able to run 
the ball with consistency, dun 
not only to the slippery fiPid 
conditions, hut also to tlw 
tremendous nl'forts of both 
defensive units. Again. 
turnovers were a problem, as 
Chris Fox was intereepted a 
serond tinw, Cavanaugh 
fumbled the toss on an option 
play, and Jim Passinault was 
intPreepWd in tlw Pnd zonP. 
Both teams wrappPd up highly sucn~ssful sPasons. as Cavanaugh won thP Leahy LPaguP titll•. with Alurmii placing second. 
"We didn't do anything diffPrPnt," said Alumni captain Urban CillespiP. "Wn took tlw prPssure off of ourselves by scoring early, and that put prnssure on Cavanaugh to eonw from behind. We played as a team. just like we've dorw all year. Consisteney has really been the key to our suecPss." 
On the Cavanaugh side, coach Ken Cotter stated that "It would have been nieP to havP won for the seniors. but offensive coordinator Dave Porter and I agree that Cavanaugh has proven itself by getting tb.is-far." 

Monday, November 20, 1989 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Monday, November 20 
7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Moral Language and the Writer's Hesponsibility," Barry Lopez, Visiting Welsh Professor of American Studies. Main auditorium, Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by CCE and Dept. of American Studies. 
Tuesday, November 21 
12 p.m. Kellogg Seminar (Brown Bag Lunch), "The Question of Democratization in China: A Heflection on the Past and Prospects for the Future," Gao Xian, Distin­guished Faculty Fellow of the Kellogg Institute. 131 Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. 
2:30 p.m. Lectum, "Developing Research Libraries in Latin America,"William Jackson, Professor of Library Science, University of Texas, Austin. 131 Decio Faculty llall. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute with the University Libraries. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame menu 
Pot roast a Ia mode Grilled sole Olympian sandwich 

ACROSS 33 Hangman's 50 Fin halter 
54 Pcur
1 Young seal 
34 Protection 

58 Concept 35 Sound from the 
4 Strike 
59 Saw
9 Countenance 

13 At the peak cote 60 Border 
36 Bog

15 Monster: Comb. 61 Cub Scout units 
37 Millay and 

form· 62 Former Times 
Ferber

16 Land west of Square hotel 
38 Favorites

Pakistan 63 Superlative
39 Doctrine

17 Bare ending 40 Actor Keith 
20 lroquoian Indians 41 Sharp ridge 
21 Eurasian 

DOWN
mountains 42 Out of it 22 Egyptian king, 45 Choler 1 Seek gold for short 46 Be under the 2 Actress Hagen 23 "-Blue?": weather etal. 1929 song 47 Loser to Dwight 3Jab 241ngenuous in the 50's 
4 Sweet spice: Ex. 30:34 5 Tableland ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Authors Levin and Wolfert 7 Muslim cap 8 Greek letter 9 Small filament 
~~-E-1 10 Oratorio highlight 11 Reiner or Sandburg 
"1~~~··· 12 Odds' partner
~':-t:::+=+=-il-::~:--. 14 A carbohydrate 1-':+;:::.r.,....,. 18 Tie, in tennis lilt::7t::+::-+=-! 19 Ariz. Indians -.::+.::-r.:::t:-~:::+:=+.:-+=-! 23 Sale terms 
r.::-t-::+.=+::+."-.::++.=+:~+=-B 24 "Glorious the sun --career": Smart 

25 Racket 26 Southern constellation 27 Gymnast Comanici 28 Coffee-break 

time, for some 29 Guam's capital 30 Eastern notable 31 Smelting 
product 32 City on the Rhine 37 Gaelic 
38 Overture 
40 Pertaining to atmospheric weight 
41 Twoof­(poker holding) 
43 Namesakes of the hunt goddess 
44 Preserver 47 Parched 48 Miami's county 49 Mortgage so High schoolers' 

exam 51 Drama villain 52 Deposit 53 0va 55 Motorists' org. 56 N.F. L. scores 57 Place 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 




WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 
"I've got it again, Larry ... an eerie feeling like there's something on top of the bed." 

Congratulations  to  
Winners of Notre Dame·s Greek Week  Special THANKS  
to all  
Applications are now being accepted for  who helped!  

CamJJus IJJtertaiJmtlf lsslstaJt CommlssloJer 
Pick the up atthe secretary's desk, 2nd Floor Lafortune 
_.
Applications due Monday, November 27 

Sports
page 16 

Monday, November 20, 1989 
Irish overpower Lions 34-23 first win in Beaver Stadium 
Rice, Watters dominate despite cold 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
UNIVEHSITY PAHK, Pa. ­Penn StatP was eager Saturday to demonstrate a couple of reasons why Notre Dame had 
rwver  won before at  Beaver  
Stadium.  
Tlw  weather  
I!i  to  20  

.. 
)>. 

years)," said Penn State coach Joe Paterno. who watched the Lions fall to 6-3-1. "They're an outstanding football team." 
Tony Hice (26 carries, 141 yards) and Ricky Watters ( 16, 
128) led a 425-yard Irish rushing attack. the most yards any Penn State team ever had given up on the ground. Top­ranked Notre Dame, 11-0, had not had two backs rush for more than 100 yards in the same game since 1983, when Allen Pinkett and Greg Bell did 
it in  a  28-23 loss to Michigan  
State.  
That  rushing  attack  offset  

another fine outing by Penn State's Thomas. who gained 
I :n yards on 26 carries and afterward rated it as his best game of the season. The senior tailback bm:amn the first player to rush for more than 100 yards against Notre Damn since his own 214-yard game in 1987, a 21-20 Penn State win. 
"I never thought this would be an offensive game," said Irish coach Lou Holtz, whose team extended its school­record winning streak to 23 games. "I was disappointed in the defense, but you have to give Penn State credit. Blair Thomas is an excellent back." 
Penn State, which had scored 
The Observer I Scott McGann 

Anthony Johnson proves why Penn State coach Joe Paterno called him the "best fullback in the country" as he bulls ahead for a few of his 45 yards. 

more than 20 points in a game going in from one yard out for only twice before Saturday, the score. showed some muscle on offense "Early on, we were feeling early. real good," said Thomas, who 
After Notre Dame stalled on scored two touchdowns in his its opening drive, often­final game at Beaver Stadium. maligned Lion quarterback "We were moving the ball on Tony Sacca directed a 79-yard them. They were lining up touchdown drive, with Thomas where we expected them to be . 
We wern executing thn things wn wnrn trying to do." 
Notre Dame answered that score with a 65-yard touchdown march, as Hicn skirtfld fivn yards around thP right nnd for the tying scorn. 
see LINE I page 13 
ND oounds Penn State on ground 
Irish olfensive line clears the way for 425-yards rushing 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

UNIVERSITY PAHK, Pa. -This was supposed to be the week when the Notre Dame rushing attack finally would meet its mateh. 
Aftpr racking up a total of 100 points against lightweight opponents thfl past two weeks, the Irish were facing the best defense in the land Saturday. Penn State entered the weekend with the nation's bflst scoring dPfense, allowing just 
9.2 points per game. 

Evidently, the opposition's statistics have no effect on the Notre Dame rushing gamn. Thfl way the Irish offensive linfl and runners dominated Saturday's 34-23 win at Beaver Stadium, it looked almost as though they were playing Navy or Southern Methodist again. 
"I thought going into thn gamfl that it would bP tough, and we Wflrfl rPally going to havn to tighten up," said Irish tailback lUcky WattPrs, who rushed for 128 yards on 16 carries with a touchdown. "But the offensive linn did a great job. There were times I saw three holes and would havfl to make a choice." 
A look at Penn Statp's dnfensive numbers for the season and Notre Dame's rushing stats for the garnfl rellnc:t the Irish dominance on oiTensP. 
Yards per carry: Penn StatP had bPen allowing just 2.8 yard pPr rush. Notm DamP gairwd 6.0 Saturday. 
Rushing touchdowns: I'Pnn State had allowPd only two touchdowns on thn ground all season. Notrn Dame had four rushing touchdowns Saturday. 
Points: The most Pnnn Stall~ had allowed this year was 17 against Alabama. NotrP DamP put 34 on the scornboard. 
Onl.'-hundred yard rushl'rs: Nobody had rushed for 100 yards in a gamP against PPnn State this season. Tlw Irish had two backs go ovnr the century mark. 
Tlw most telling statistir canw in thP amount or rushing yards NotrP Damn garrwrPd against the Lions. Tlw Irish ran for 425 yards, rnorP than any Penn State opporwnt in history. 
"I wouldn't expPrt to run for that many yards in a marathon," quippPd Irish coach Lou Holtz. 
Bien ran for 141 yards on 26 carriPs, pairing with WattPrs as Notn~ Danw's first 100-yard rushing duo in a gamn sinen 1<J8:~. Haghib "HockPt" Ismail adciPd 84 yards on nirw rarriPs, whill' fullback Anthony Johnson, doing most of his running insidP on short-yardag~~ situations, gainnd 45 yards on 1!i earrins. 
ND hockey splits with Huskies over weekend 
By MIKE KAMRADT 
Sports Writer 
For thn almost 1,200 fans who came out hoping to sfle some great colleg(~ hockey, Friday night's game with St. Cloud State was no disappointrm~nt. 
Notre DamP scored two goals in the third pnriod and held off a potent St. Cloud attack to post a thrilling 3-2 vic:tory. The vietory was keyed by some opportunistic offense, a solid, tight-chncking defense and outstanding goaltending. 
"This wa~ an extremely big win for us." said Irish hPad coaeh Hie Schafer. " I'm extrPmely proud of the effort of our players tonight. It tClok our absolute best effort from goalie to forwards to beat this !Pam." The two teams established 

what kind of game it would bP early in thfl first period as thfl two teams played tough defensfl that induded a great dflal of big cheeks. Thfl Irish killed off two penalties in thfl first 10 minutes and then went on the powpr play at 11:17 when Lc(mard Esau of St. Cloud was sent off for hooking. 
The Irish's Dan Sawyer had a good chance of scoring 30 seconds into the p1malty, but tlw Jluskie goalie kicked it away. With 37 seconds left on the initial power play, St. Cloud was whistled again and the Irish had a two-man advantage. 
Tim Kuehl came very close to putting the Irish on the board first as he took a pass in the left slot and firfld, only to have the goalie steer it away. One minute later, with the Irish still on the power play, Kuehl rattled the crossbar with a blistering slapshot from the point. 
Th1~ Irish defense rose to the occasion ncar the end of the period. Goalie Lance Madson made a good kiek save of a shot with 4:34 left and then defenseman Dan Sawyer brokfl up a two-on-one with 2:20 to play. Madson madp anothflr outstanding save at 18:05, one of 18 he made in the period and 47 for the game. 
"Where would we have bPen without Lance Madson?" ponderfld Schafer. " What would the score have been at the end of the first period?" 
The Irish had a power play less than one minute into the second period and although they had a good offensive set with good puck movement, they couldn't manage a goal. Tlw Irish continued to control their own blufl line and maintain good offensive pressure through the early stages of the period. 
The Irish were finally able to break the icn at 14:33 of the period. The Irish were on the power play when Tim KuPhl sent the puck to David Bankoske along the right boards. The sophomore center then sent a pprfect pass to Pat Arendt streaking up the slot who thfln slipped the puck by the goalie on the left side. 
The score stayed at 1-0 the rest of the period thanks to Madson and the defensive play of the Irish, particularly Janicke, who broke up a three­on-one break. 
see HOCKEY I page 12 
see IRISH I page 13 
NO swimmers 
compete on home and on road, page 12 
lnterhall champs 
for men's and women's football decided over weekend, page 14 
Mike O'Connor 
will run in cross country NCAAs today, page 10 





