
VOL. XXIII NO.1 ~I~J WEDNESDAY , SEPTEMBER 20, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
McFarlane defends 
U.S. Iran/Contra affair 
By MATTHEW GALLAGHER 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Fornwr Reagan Administra­tion National Security Advisor Holwrt MeFarlann said the U.S. involwment in tlw Iran/Contra alTair was aimed at the right Pnds. but the means usPd were' wrong. 
• McFarlane Lecture I page 3 
In a press conference Tues­day. McFarlane said the U.S. may have achieved some of its goals in thn scheme to arm the Nicaraguan Contra rebels with profits dnrived from arm sales to Iran. 
"It isn't clear now... that, since those in power now in Iran. who are seeking to break out of thnir isolation and re­storn a normal, pnacnful rela­tionship. the same prlOple the Beagan Administration was seeking to reach, that it was a wrong-headed idea in the first place," McFarlane said. 
McFarlane also defended the Beagan Administration's sup­port of the Contra rebels, but said that covert action was an inappropriate means of aiding them. 
"At the corP of the problem was the failure of our leader­ship ... to recognize that you can never undertake any policy un­less the American people un­derstand it and support it, and it is the responsibility of the president to help them under­stand it," McFarlane said. 
"Helying on covert activity to pursue your policy means you're never going to have Americans understand what it's all about, and thus they will never support it," McFarlane 
see FARLANE I page 4 

DART registration to beginfor 1990 spring semester 

AP Photo A large passenger craft is beached in the port of Pointe-a-Pitre, Guadaloupe Monday. The hurricane Hugo killed five and injured some 80 people on the French island. 
DC-1 0 airliner bound for Paris missing with 170 on board 
Associated Press A State Department source in and France, which has a small said, speaking on condition of An explosion in the tail engine 
Washington, who spoke on force in Chad. anonymity. of a United Airlines DC-1 0 on 
PAHIS-A DC-1 0 airliner condition of anonymity, con­The last radio contact be-The flight left N'Djamena at July 19 severed hydraulic lines bound from thn Congo to Paris firmed Mrs. Pugh was aboard. tween the plane and air traffic 1:13 p.m. (8:13 a.m. EDT) and operating the airplane's con­with 170 people aboard disap­The French news agency controllers, 40 to 50 minutes should have arrived at Charles trols, forcing the pilots to make pnan~d on Tuesday. probably Agence France-Presse, quoting after leaving the airport at De Gaulle-Hoissy International an emergency landing near owr tlw West African country unidentified sources, said Cha­N'Djamena, indicated every-Airport at 7:15 p.m. (1:15 p.m. Sioux City, Iowa, in which 112 of Nignr, tlw Frnnch airline dian Planning Minister Ma­thing was normal, the airline EDT). people died. UTA said. hamat Soumahila was also said. UTA purchased the aircraft Both FAA Administrator 
A U.S. ambassador's wife aboard. bound for the annual UTA said that would be in 1973 and it logged 60,000 James Busey and National was among tlw passengers, and meeting of the International enough flight time to take the hours in the air. No indications Transportation Safety Board a Chadian Cabirwt minister also Monetary Fund in Washington. plane over the border into of mechanical failure surfaced Chairman James Kolstad de­was n~portPd on board. The report was not con­neighboring Niger. It reported before the plane left Chad, UTA clared the DC-1 0 to be safe. 
UTA said thnrP was no sign firmed, and UTA did not im­no unusual weather in the area said. A Korean Air Lines DC-1 0 of tlw plane's fate~ by nightfall, mndiately issue a passenger at the time. Keith Takahashi, a crashed on landing July 27 at mon• than live hours aftnr con­list. The French navy dispatched a spokesman for the Douglas Tripoli, Libya, killing 78 pas­tart was lost. UTA Flight 772, with 155 Dassault-Breguet Atlantique Aircraft Co. in Long Beach, sengers and four people on the 
Bonnie Pugh. wifn of U.S. passengers and 15 crew, origi­patrol aircraft from Dakar, Calif., identified the aircraft as ground. Ambassador to Chad Hobert nated in the Congolese capital Senegal. to join the search, the a DC-1 0-30, a popular model in Northern Chad was long the Pugh. was aboard. according to of BrazzaviliP and made a Defense Ministry said. the DC-1 0 series. scene of battles between gov­Holwrt Ayling. thn dnputy chief stopover in N'Djamena. The Foreign Ministry formed The disappearance came the ernment forces and Libyan­of miss ion. reaclwd by tele­The airline said it believed the a crisis team to maintain con-same day the Federal Aviation backed rebels, but has been phorw in !'J'DjamPna. Chad. lie search focused on Niger. along tact with the countries over Authority in Washington calm for two years. Chad and said it appeared a full-scale the path the plane would have which the plane could have ordered a detailed inspection in Libya have restored diplomaticsearch would havn to wait until taken, and could involve mili­flown, including Niger and AI-the fan disks of all DC-1 0 relations and agreed to settle daylight Wednesday. tary forces from Chad, Niger geria, a ministry spokesman engines. their territorial dispute. 

By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
This fall students will 
register for their spring 
classes using the new on-line 
telephone registration 
system. 
Th1l system, called Direct Access· Registration by Telephone fDAHT), is still in its final stag<'s of testing, but Daniel Winirur. dean of administration and registrar said hn is conf'idHnt DART will be ready fQr registration. 
Hegistration for the 1990 spring semester will take place between October 30 and November 17, 1989, said Winieur. 
After this time DAHT will continue to be available for adding and dropping courses through January 25, th<> first week of spring semPster, said Winicur. 
Winicur said a I 0 minute video will be presented to all students between September 25 and October 11. He s11id a question/answer period 'rill follow the video. 
Winicur said each student will receive a schedule of video presentations in the mail. He said that there are copies of the video available in the Hegistrar's office that will be available to any group that would like a private showing. 
The Schedule of Courses and Student Academic In f o r m a ti o n bo o kl e t eontains all the information necessary to register, said Winicur. He said the booklet will be available on October 9. 
Senior registration will be on October 30-November 3, Juniors register November 6-10 and sophomores on November 13-17. 
Each student will be assigned an appointmen(for access to DART aml.....a personal identification 
see DART I page 6 

Hurricane Hugo nears Florida 
Associated Press 
MIAMI-Hurricane Hugo, the Caribbean killer blamed for 25 deaths, seethed past the Bahamas Tuesday on an uncer­tain path that threatens an area from Florida to North Carolina by Friday. 
• Hurricane history I page 5 
Disaster teams found death and destruction in Puerto Hico and a string of resort islands clobbered by the mightiest storm in a decade in the north­eastern Caribbean. More than 50,000 people were homeless, and military planes ferried ra­dios, drinking water, genera­tors, chainsaws and other equipment to stricken areas that pleaded for more help. 
"Whole buildings just picked up and left," said James Gris­sim, a resident of Water Island in St. Thomas. He recalled "sheet metal roofing flying through the air, singing as it went, and glass, the sound of glass breaking all over the place." 
Forecasters used computers, satellites and charts of old storms but could not predict Hugo's wobbly path. It lurched to the north and west because other weather systems seemed to be blocking it from heading into the open Atlantic. 
At 6 p.m. EDT, the hurri­cane's center was near latitude 
23.3 degrees north and longi­tude 68.9 west, about 185 miles east-northeast of Grand Turk Island, a British island in the southern Bahamas, according to the National Weather Ser­vice. 
It had maximum sustained winds of 105 mph and was moving northwest at 12 mph, forecasters said. But Hugo was re-organizing over open seas where warm tropical air fueled its engine, and forecasters ex­pected fluctuations in strength. 
Hurricane warnings were downgraded to storm warnings for the southern Bahamas as Hugo skirted past, but the Ba­hamian government issued warnings for the central islands of the archipelago. Islanders boarded up their homes as a precaution. 
"No one is relaxing their vigil because it can change direc­tion," said Bill Kalis, press sec­retary for the government's in­formation office. 
In Florida, NASA officials said they would wait until Wednesday before deciding to move the space shuttle Atlantis, scheduled for launch Oct. 12, from its launch pad and into shelter. They also put off a de­cision on whether to remove a Navy communications satellite from an Atlas-Centaur rocket on another launch pad until more is known about Hugo's path. 
"I think Hugo has certainly got people nervous," said Kathleen Hale, director of the Dade County Office of Emer­gency Management. 
see HUGO 1page 6 
~·--~ 

-----~------------~--~------~ 

page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Cambodia's rulers decorated departing Vietnamese mili­tary chiefs Tuesday and said Vietnam's 11-year occupation was not only legal but also "humanitarian" because it stopped mas­sacres by the Khmer Houge. In a ceremony. authorities presented the Angkor Order -a top Cambodian military distinction -to commanders of the eight army. navy and air force units that are to begin leaving Thursday in what Vietnam says will be the pullout of its last 26,000 troops. Chea Sim, the No. 2 man in Phnom' Penh's ruling Communist Party, praised the officers for having toppled the fanatical Communist Khmer Houge regime in late 1978. 
The Vatican said Tuesday that a convent on the site of the Ausehwitz death camp that has offended Jewish groups should be moved and that it would help pay to construct a new prayer center outside the camp. The statement from the Vatican's Commission for Heligious Helations with Judaism was the first ptlblic dedara­tion by the Homan Catholic Church hierarchy and clearly had the approval of Pope John Paul II. The controversy has severely strained Catholic-Jewish relations and resulted in a highly unusual public split among Catholic eardinals. In its communique, the Vat­ican diplomatically but firmly rejected the position held by Poland's primate, Cardinal Jozef Glemp, who has been accused of making anti-Semitic remarks recently and has called the proposed removal of the nuns "a scandal." 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
President Bush. sharing a platform with House Speaker Tom Foley at a centennial tree-planting ceremony in Spokane, Wash. on Tuesday prodded the Democratic-controlled Congress to move more quickly on his elean-air proposals. Bush challenged Demoeratic leaders to finish work on his proposed overhaul of the Clean Air Act of 1974 this year-a target Foley, the nation's top­ranking elected D11mocrat, had called possible but "unlikely." Suggesting his legislation had been languishing in House and Sen­ate committees, Bush dedared, "Every day that passes is another day we'rn postponing progress on clean air." 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
The Warsaw Community School Board has dropped a program that awarded students with perfect attendance with a 2 percent increase in gradns. Students who attend every class in­stead will receive free merchandise from the school bookstore. The school board approved the 2 percent increase to encourage students to stop skipping class, but the policy was attacked by some of the top students who said they could be unfairly penalized by the policy. Excused absences for illness or other reasons were still counted as missed days and disqualified a student from re­ceiving the grade bonus. A committee of administrators and school board members recommended the 2 percent policy be dropped. 
Molly Yard, president of the National Organization for Women, will speak Thursday at a rally in Anderson to inform the public on the recent U.S. Supreme Court decision on abortion. The rally for "Heproductive Freedom: Every Body's Choice," also will include speeches by Jane Stout, president of the Indiana Pro­Choice Action League and the director of the Women's Clinic in In­dianapolis; Pamela Hall-Morrison, director of human services, housing and economic development for the Indianapolis Urban League; and Jill Chambers, president of the Indiana NOW Political Action League. The rally will be at noon at State Theatre. 
WEATHER 
l ~ Sunny
fiJ Mostly sunny and pleasant today, high in ther 
70s. Low tonight in the lower 50s. Partly sunny and mild Thursday, High around 80.
~ 
~ 
ALMANAC 
On September 20: 
e In 1519: Portuguese naviga­tor Ferdinand Magellan set out from Spain on a voyage to find a western passage to the Indies. Magellan was killed en route, but one of his ships eventually circled the globe. e In 1958: Civil Rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. was se­riously wounded in New York City when an apparently deranged black woman stabbed him in the chest. e In 1962: James Meredith, a black, was blocked from en­rolling in the University of Mis­sissippi by Gov. Hoss Barnett. Meredith was later admitted. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for Tues., Sept. 19, 1989 


S&P 500 ~ o.6o to 351.35 
Currency exchange Mark {? .10to51.21 $1DM Yen -!} .1 0 to 68.58 $/¥ Pound~ .0010 to 1.5710$1£ 
Precious Metals 

Gold {!r $0.30 to $366.20 I oz. Silver{} 0.3¢ to $5.1600 I oz. 
Source: Prudenltal Bache Securities 

lnformat•on compiled lrom Observer w~res and Observer staff reports 
The Observer Wednesday, September 20, 1989 

Change hard but necessary at Notre Dame 
NEWS FLASH: ND GOES COED 
Don't count on it-Poor Father Sorin would 
roll over in his grave. 
In 1972, the· University took the boldest move 
since its founding in 1842 by allowing females 
to join the Notre Dame family. Women suddenly 
could be an integral part of the rich tradition 
built by Father Sorin nearly 150 years ago, and 
passed on through legends like Knute Hockne, 
and protected by the likes of Father Theodore 
Hesburgh. Our Lady should be proud indeed. 
Unfortunately, change at Notre Dame is the 
exception, and by no means a rule (unless of 
course we include the University's never-ending 
construction plans). 
Some call it tradition. Sadly, tradition has be­come the guise for the arcane rules and regula­tions imposed on this student body by the Uni­versity supposedly in loco parentis. It's nice to know that we will be looked after, when many of us are far away from home. But, when was the last time you had to kick a member of the oppo­site sex out of your house because the 2 o'clock alarm went off? 
Parictals are an easy target, but certainly not the only remaining bastion of archaic ideas and forms of Catholic suppression to remain intact beneath the glow of the Dome as we approach the 1990s. 
And it's not just that the University needs to change its attitude with regard to male/female relations. They need to reassess the charter of a Catholic institution of higher education in a world that is undoubtedly more complex than the one that existed when classes were regularly conducted in Old College. It's one thing to de­velop in a caring Catholic environment, and quite another to be stifled by a well-meaning authority. 
The University has declared this the Year of the Family, and with it, is hoping to foster the special spirit of the 'Notre Dame family' among all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. For this, the University should be commended. I know of no other school who tries so earnestly to make her students feel such a strong sense of belonging. 
However, I wonder whether all of this talk about the Notre Dame family will ever develop into anything concrete. 
Saint Mary's is right across the street, and yet in my three years here, I could count the number of times that I have been on that campus on one hand. Saint Mary's students are often treated like second-class citizens, with regard to every­thing from purchasing football tickets, to' get­ting coverage in this very paper. There must be a better way to unite the two campuses to truly make us a singular Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
Are we really a united community, or has the administration and the student body gone their separate ways? This is evident in the adoption of an honor code that students had little, if any, 
OF INTEREST 
The Saint Mary's students interested in being photographers for The Observer should meet in the Holy Cross Hall lobby at 6:30 p.m. today. If you have any questions, call Susy at 284-4352. 
Science Quarterly Magazine writers should meet at 7 p.m. in Hoom 180 of Nieuwland Science Hall. For more information, call Pat McLaughlin at 283-1786. 
Notre Dame Judicial Council will meet in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune, at 5:30 
p.m. today. 
Juniors interested in participating in the class service project should meet at 7:30p.m. in the Sorin Hoom, LaFortune. Call Terry Loughran at 283-1712 for more information. 

'Unfortunately, change at Notre Dame is the exception and not 
the rule.' 
Christine Walsh Asst. News Editor 

say in. but were then expected to follow. It's not 
convincing enough simply to tell us, "It's for 
your own good." This is not the way strong re­
lationships are maintained. 
Furthermore, the idea of residcntiality does help to foster lasting relationships and a dorm identity. We are expected to live in the same place for our stay at the University. Friendships formed within the dorm have the potential to last a lifetime. The University discourages inter­dorm transfers for fear that this sense of fra­ternity will be lost. However. judging by all of the alumni who proudly give tours of all their former rooms to their children on football weekends, I don't think they arc any the worse for the former housing arrangiJments. Once again, the University has some idea of how we should live, and what they say goes. 
Although undergraduates numbnr only about 8,000, it's hard to remember at times that we are indeed more than our student I.D. numbers. It would be ridiculous for me to address my sis­tnr as 104-29-2886, but the registrar's office knows us in no other way. I need my student 
I.D. for everything from cashing a check to eat­ing a meal to registering for classes. 
Maybe there is not a more efficient way of dealing with such a large number of studnnts, but certainly there must be a more personal ap­proach out there worth pursuing. The officers of this University should not have to be bureau­cratic policemen, and we as young adults should not be treated like bands of unwitting children. It would be fitting that the nation's most presti­gious Catholic college strive to make this the most caring place that it can without making this like Catholic grammar school revisited. 
Somewhere along the way, Notre Dame has failed to keep up with the changing needs of her students. We have rules that were originally de­signed to ensure the best living and academic environment possible for all of Our Lady's chil­dren. However, as we approach a new decade I think it's imperative that the administration re­consider its objectives in student-student and student-University relations. 
Change is never easy, especially when we fear that our identity and trnasured traditions may be lost in the process. There is always a better way-And it's the responsibility of everyone at this university to help find it. 
Recyclin' Irish will meet at 7 p.m. today in 
the  Dooley  Room,  LaFortune.  All  dorm  
representatives attend.  and  commissioners  should  

Notre Dame Security will hold an open forum for students concerned about security today at 7 p.m. in Theodore's. 
Clubs wishing to appeal the Budget Committee's decision on funding must return their appeal forms by Friday. Forms are still available at the Treasurer's Office, LaFortune, from noon to 4 p.m. 
Freshmen are asked to please pick up their Freshman Hegistrar (Dog Book) in Room 315 LaFortune as soon as possible. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Editor .................. Chris Labaree Design Assltant ..................... Greg Tice Typesetters_ ............................ Tim Kiefer .......................................................... Tim Quinn Asst. News EdltorFiorentine Hoelker News Copy Editor ........... John O'Brien Sports Copy Editor...... Theresa Kelly ......................................................Mary Garino VIewpoint Copy Editor..... Kim Skiles Vlewpolnl Layout....... Colleen Stepan Accent Editor ............. Paige A. Smoron Accent Copy Editor ...... Barbara Bryn Accent Designer ............. Alison Cocks Typists ........................................Will Zamer NO Day Editor ..................... Amy Leroux Photographer .................... Tom Hassett Ads Designer ........ Kathleen O'Connor ...................... Meg Callahan, Kristie Rolke _ Val Paletta. Amy Eckert, Laura Rossi 

~-----~---~---------~-------­
Wednesday, September 20, 1989 The Observer page 3 
McFarlane says U.S. contributed Bostwick wins District One 
seat with 51 °/o of votes 


to evolution of global power 
By MICHELLE DALL 
News Editor 
Robert McFarlane, who served as National Security Advisor under Ronald Reagan between 1983 and 1985, spoke about the changing distribution of global power at a lecture in Washington Hall last night. 
The evolution of global power, McFarlane said, "represents one of the most important ideological changes in modern history." 
He used three Second-World regions to illustrate the "profound evolution" of global power: China, the Soviet Union, and Eastern Europe. 
"The world is collectively moving from a period in which international tensions threat­ened the possible annihilation of mankind to a time in which peaceful discourse between na­tions in solving their differ­ences has become the norm," he said. 
McFarlane attributed this 
trend toward peace to several 
factors, including communist 
leaders gradually coming to the 
realization that alternative sys­
tems of governance have 
yielded more prosperity than 
their own. "They have awak­
ened to the realization than the 
U.S. system is better than theirs in regard to new ideas, new technologies and the wel­fare of all its citizens," McFar­lane said. 
Furthermore, "(Communist) leaders have recognized the condition of their own coun­tries is worsening, and there is no feasible way to hide this fact from their citizens," he said. 
The U.S. has also contributed to this increasing level of awareness, McFarlane said. "The United States has been influential due to a conscious set of policies designed to en­courage change in the USSR," he said. One of these policies, in which McFarlane himself is involved, is an investment strategy, in which the United States would invest money in businesses in the USSR. The purpose of this strategy, Mc­Farlane said, is to demonstrate to Soviet leaders that, unless they remain open to the possi­bility of U.S. investment in their country, they could go down in 

Robert McFarlane 
history as presiding over the inevitable decline of Soviet global power. 
While McFarlane said he was generally optimistic about the prospects of success in China and Eastern Europe, he said his confidence did not extend to the Soviet Union. He cited in­ternal opposition by party ma­chinery and the government establishment in both Moscow itself and the individual re­publics as obstacles to success­ful reform. 
"The Soviet state must ap­pease the status quo," accord­ing to McFarlane. The people need some assurance that their standards of living will improve over the course of their life­times, he said. 
The inability of the govern­ment to establish a stable and reliable set of prices has under­mined economic reform in the area, he said. 

Another impediment to Soviet prosperity, according to Mc­Farlane, is its Slavic history. In such a society, he explained, "Change constitutes a threat.. .. These people's lives, through­out history, have largely been dictated by higher authori­ties .... From the cradle to the grave, their decisions have ba­sically been made for them.... When they realize they may have to compete for jobs, orga­nize themselves into primaries for voting and discover that not everyone will automatically be guaranteed housing and food, the system doesn't seem as attractive, he said. 
McFarlane said he felt the possibilities for successful re­form in both China and Eastern Europe were generally opti­mistic. China has developed a solid strategy to improve the nation's productivity -through manufacturing, services, and ­most importantly -agricul­ture, McFarlane said. 
The main problem in China, according to McFarlane, is cor­ruption in the public sector. McFarlane said this was the primary contributing factor in the student protests in the re­gion last spring. 
McFarlane said that, although the Chinese Army may be able to maintain order in the country for a short pe­riod, reform will eventually tri­umph. He said this is largely because the Chinese economy will begin to suffer as foreign countries, protesting Chinese policies, divest from the area. 
McFarlane predicted that, by the turn of the century, China will adopt a mixed economy , as well as a more liberal ad­ministration. 
In Eastern Eutope, the 
see LECTURE I page 7 

By SANDRA WIEGAND Staff Reporter 
Sophomore Lisa Bostwick was elected the new District One student senator Tuesday, receiving 51.38% of the votes. 
''I'm really excited. I was ex­pecting to have a run-off elec­tion. I thought it would be re­ally close." Bostwick said. 
The other candidates were Zachary Hudgins and Joseph Lacher. The halls in District One include: Alumni, Holy Cross, Lewis, Keenan, Sorin, Stanford, and Walsh. 
Bostwick received a total of 390 of the 759 votes cast. 
"One thing I was not happy about was the low turnout of voters," she said, "I wish more people took an interest; there are a lot of issues for which much more student impact is possible," she said. 
Bostwick's campaign plat­form included a plan for an al­ternative meal plan, and a plan for a security escort service on campus. 
The alternative meal plan would allow students to buy a lesser number of meals on campus. The present plan in­cludes 21 meals per week; ac­cording to Bostwick, most stu­dents only eat about 14 meals in the dining halls. 
In her plan for a security escort service, Bostwick urged the hall presidents of male dorms to offer their services as security escorts, stressing that the plan cannot work without student support. 
As a student senator, Bost­wick plans on playing a strong roll in the student government duties of providing a forum for student body discussion, help­ing students to obtain funding for activities, and serving as a medium between students and administration. 

Hall Presidents discuss phone line and Irish Insanity 
ByANGELA MCDONALD Staff Reporter 
Irish Insanity's promotion of 
school spirit, the HPC phone line and the Campus Challenge -contest were the main topics of discussion at Tuesday's Hall 
Presidents' Council meeting. 
Irish Insanity urged people to 
wear blue to this Saturday's 
home game, and to take advan­
tage of the free face painting 
that will be offered to students 
from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the flag 
pole near the Law School 
Building. They also encouraged 
the students to support the 
football team by placing the 
posters that were distributed 
this week in the windows of 
their respective dorms. 
Irish Insanity meets every Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Room of LaFor­tune. 
The recent incidents of stu­dents being attacked on campus sparked the idea of HPC phone lines. This was created so that 
i 
if an incident happened during 1the weekend, each of the hall presidents will be notified and I they in turn will notify the residents of their hall. 
j 
1 
Brian O'Gara, marketing as­sistant in the athletic depart­ment, discussed the campus challenge contest. The contest is geared to promote some of the sports that get little atten­tion. "Some of our less recog­
see HPC 1page 4 


,...------------------------------.--~--------------~-~-~----~~-------------­
page 4 

Man who killed, boiled lover reveals locale of body parts 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-A man accused of killing his girlfriend, then dismembering and boiling some of her remains, calmly told in­vestigators where to find a bucket filled with her body parts, detectives said Tuesday. 
Daniel Hakowitz, 28, awaited arraignment later Tuesday on a charge of murdering Swiss dancer Monika Beerle, said po­lice Sgt. John Clifford, a de­partment spokesman. 
The victim's remains, reduced to a skull and bones left in a five-gallon bucket, were found in the baggage claim of the Port Authority bus terminal and handed ovm to the medical examiner. No findings were ex­peeled before Wednesday. 
Beerle, 26, came to New York last year from St. Gallen, Switzerland, to study with the Martha Graham School of Con­temporary Dance and took up residence in east Greenwich 
HPC 
continued from page 3 
nized sports have put out some excellent pnrformanees and this is a sports crazy campus, so we antieipate a lot of student sup­port," said O'Gara. 

~ir Richard's 
Village. 

Hakowitz, a short-order cook who drifted from job to job, moved in with Beerle about two months ago and they shared the apartment with an­other woman, said Deputy Chief Ronald Fenrich, commander of Manhattan detectives. 
lie declined to say where the other woman was or what she saw. 
When Beerle decided to break off with Hakowitz and told him to leave on Aug. 19, Hakowitz beat and stabbed her to death, then worked for the next week at disposing of the body, !-'enrich said. 
He boiled the parts to sepa­rate nesh from bone and "flushed the skin down the toi­let," Clifford said. Word of the grisly killing got around the neighborhood and eventually reached police, Fenrich said. 
One of Rakowitz's neighbors said Rakowitz had bragged that he would kill his girlfriend. 
Each of the dorms decided on a designated night to attend a sporting event and will compete against other dorms to see who has the highest percentage of attendance. 
The three dorms with the highest percentage will win sporting goods equipment for their respective dorms. 
3­
~ 

HAIR DESIGNS ... 
~

277-0734Men & Women's Cuts, Perms, Styles  'rP'  
417 DlxleWay.North (Roseland)  ~­ - 
South Bend, IN 46637  J  
25% off Nexus, ThermaFuse  

&Paul Mitchel Products with this coupon. 
MON-THURS 11:30AM-9:30PM FRI-SAT 11:30AM-10:30PM SUNDAY 11 :30AM-9PM SUNDAY BUFFET 11 :30AM-3PM 
*N.o.~ 
0.  
~  U.S. 20 E.  
293-0126  c  
1308 S. Nappanee St.  0- 
Elkhart, IN  46516  <D  

(/) 
IJ¥JLI -~-~~ Szechwan Gard~~ 
* 
Wednesday, September 20, 1989
The Observer 

Farlane 
continued from page 1 
said. 
"I think it is fair to criticize, and it should be criticized, the internal political abuses within the government on how the de­cisions were made, but as for the motives of President Rea­gan, I don't think they can be criticized in the least." 
McFarlane also defended his personal role in the Iran/Contra affair, and he said that former Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North was not used as a fall guy for administration officials. 
"I have acknowledged my own errors, and in the case of the North trial, I have taken re­sponsibility for whatever it was he did," McFarlane said. 
McFarlane said he believes the Iran/Contra affair will not be a significant blemish on the Reagan Administration's his­torical legacy. 
"Over time, I think that episode will not appear to be as serious a problem as in the present day." 
The Reagan administration's two greatest contributions were its improvement of Ameri­can economy and the reduction in world tensions, McFarlane said. 
"This change that is occur­ring...away from a cold-war position...toward peace, and where peaceful discourse be­
~~~~~-:~-~~~::~i~~~:~~==:·~~;~··~~~·~p 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way Laura, we do expect to see you danc1ng


Jl l'
on pool tables ton1ght 

tween our countries can reach 
peace, has proven that things 
have gotten better, and the 
Reagan administration can 
take credit for that, although 
surely much of the credit can be 
taken on the Soviet side," Mc­
Farlane said. 
The Reagan years will also be 
remembered for "fixing the 
economy. That, too, has made a 
big difference in our ability to 
lead internationally." 
The new Bush administration has "perhaps the most talented collection of advisors in the foreign policy area that we have seen for a long, long time." 
McFarlane said "competence and experience makes a differ­ence", and the Bush adminis­tration has the opportunity to make a substantial impact on foreign policy, although it is too early in his term to point to specific accomplishments. 
McFarlane said speaking at a university was particularly ap­propriate for a former gov­ernment official. 
"We are privileged to live in a time of incredible change and evolution ... in which the face and character of what to follow is going to vary in China, in Moscow and in Eastern Eu­rope," McFarlane said. 
"It is the students that will take part in shaping the face of change... Each will have in his own way the ability to influence what kind of relationship be­
tween the United States and 
these countries, which are in 
such flux, will take place." 
McFarlane emphasized the 
importance of the study of 
comparative politics, history 
and economics for current stu­
dents. 
Notre Dame already pos­
sesses strong programs in 
these areas, McFarlane said. 
He also said a "strong em­phasis on religious training, an indoctrination to .I udeo-Chris­tian values must forever have a solid place in any institution." 
McFarlane said it was impor­tant for all students to receive a strong education in these ar­eas, as many will be future leaders of the nation. "Government is not the only place you can serve, although it is a worthy calling." 
"They understand one system works better than another, and they want to be a part of the one that works better: the West." 
The changes taking place in Eastern Europe are encourag­ing for the United States, Mc­Farlane said. 
"The United States recognizes the core problem of Soviet life today is the unworkability of its eco:1omy." I le recommended joint business ventures as the best way for Americans to sup­port the change currently un­derway in the Soviet Union. 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
Teaching math or science as  Peace Corps Volunteer. you will  
a Peace Corps Volunteer will  handle responsibilities and meet  
develop your professional skills in  challenges far greater than  
the classroom and beyond. You  those that might be offered in a  
might teach basic math to rural  starting position in the United  
students in Belize ... and after  States. When you return, your  
school set up a vegetable gar­ Peace Corps experience may  
den to improve nutrition. Or be  open new doors to you. Educa­ 
assigned as a physics teacher  tional institutions, international  
in Lesotho. In addition, help  firms and government agencies  
local women market handicrafts  value someone with your  
to earn school fees. As a  experience.  

~ars of PEACE CORPS 

The toughest job you'll ever love. 
See our free film Thursday, September 28th, 7 p.m., Center for Social Concern. Interviews, Wednesday & Thursday, October 4th & 5th Career & Placement Services 
~---------~--~-------------~--------­
Wednesday, September 20, 1989 The Observer 
page 5 

Hurricanes have history of threatening East Coast 
Associated Press 
Hurricanes that ravage the Caribbean tend to spin into the Gulf of Mexico or north into the Atlantic along the East Coast of the United States. Here is a list of some of the worst storms that, like Hugo, have threatened the Eastern seaboard: 
Sept. 12-17, 1928 -Called the Lake Okeechobee hurricane, this storm killed 5,000 people in the Caribbean before moving into Florida. Lake Okeechobee, Florida's largest lake, whipped by 160 mph winds, overflowed into populated areas, killing 1 ,836 more people. 
Sept. 21, 1938-This fast­moving storm attacked with lit­tle warning, hitting Cape Hat­teras, N.C., early in the morn­ing. With winds clocked at more than 180 mph, it ram­paged northward along the coast into New England, killing more than 600 people across seven states and destroying over 20,000 buildings. 
Sept. 12-16, 1944 -When this storm struck from North Carolina to New England, 40 people were killed on land, and some 350 drowned when the high winds and seas devastated wartime shipping. 
CAROL: Aug. 30, 1954-This storm left a trail of 68 dead from Cape Hatteras to Quebec. Wind gusts of 135 mph ripped off the steeple of Boston's Old North Church, where lanterns were hung to signal Paul Re­vere's famous ride. 
HAZEL: Oct. 12-13, 1954­Hazel hit North and South Carolina after killing hundreds in Haiti. A total of 34 7 people died, 95 of them in the United States. 
CONNIE: Aug. 12-13, 1955­Hurricane Connie struck North Carolina, veered northward into Virginia and Maryland, and finally moved out to sea after brushing Long Island. Forty-three people died in the United States. 
DIANE: Aug. 18-19, 1955­Diane struck a week after Con­nie and although it was a weaker storm, killed 184 peo­ple, dumping heavy rains and causing extensive flooding from North Carolina to New Eng­land. 
DONNA: Sept. 4-12, 1960­Hurricane Donna crossed the Florida Keys, savaged North Carolina, bounced back to sea, and then turned again to hit New York City with the strongest winds the city had ever experienced. Manhattan was inundated with 10-foot 


tides. An estimated 148 people died. 

DAVID: Aug. 30-Sept. 13, 1979 -Traveling from the Associated Press Dominican Republic to Florida up to eastern Canada, Hurri­HARRISBURG, Pa.-A coali­cane David killed 1,200 people, tion of pro-choice lawmakers 19 of them in the United States. Tuesday proposed legislation 
GLORIA: Sept. 16-27, 1985-designed to strengthen Gloria struck the mid-Atlantic women's rights to abortion in coast, came ashore on Long Is­Pennsylvania and to preempt a land, N.Y., and swept through planned attempt to toughen ex­New England to Canada. More isting laws restricting abortion. than 200,000 people in the na­tion's most populated area Pennsylvania is widely viewed were evacuated in preparation as a key battleground state fol­for what was billed as "the lowing the U.S. Supreme Court storm of the century." However decision in July that gave states Gloria came ashore at low tide more leeway in addressing the with diminished winds, so dam­abortion issue. Historically, the age was moderate and only two state General Assembly has deaths were attributed to the overwhelmingly approved bills storm. restricting abortions, but many 

MAY IS JUST AROUND 
Here we are talking about May and Lou hasn't played USC. Digger has yet to hold a basketball practice. And you haven't a single clue where you'll spend Spring Break. 
The hard reality of life is that your senior year will be over before you realize it (Doesn't it seem like just Y'-Sterday that you were w?.1dering around South Pend as a freshman?) 

That's where we come in. Each year The May Depart­ment Stores Company hires bright, energetic, success­ful seniors from schools like Penn, Berkeley and Notre Dame. And we'd really like to meet vou. 
Wednesday, September 20, we 'II be in the Dooley Room of the LaFortune Student Center (first floor) from IO:OQ to 4:00. 
of the provisions have been struck down in court. 
The new nine-bill package in­cludes measures calling for a state constitutional amendment giving women the right to an abortion, restoring state-subsi­dized funding for all "medically necessary" abortions, and wiping out an existing law re­quiring rape and incest victims to file a police report before re­ceiving subsidized abortions. 
The centerpiece bill, spon­sored by state Rep. Karen Rit­ter, says government should not interfere with "a woman's personal choice to commence, prevent or continue a preg­nancy or have an abortion" be­fore the fetus is viable. 
The proposal mirrors existing law in saying an abortion on a viable fetus is allowed only if the mother's life or health is threatened by the pregnancy. Under the proposal, a fetus is considered viable if the woman's doctor rules there is "a reasonable likelihood of sustained survival ... outside the woman's uterus." 
In an attempt to placate some abortion opponents, Ritter said the bill would also require doc­tors to ask teen-age patients to notify at least one parent be­fore having an abortion. 

We'll answer questions like: What will I do on a typical day? Will you train me? Can I use my major in this job? 
And maybe most importantly, you'll meet a bunch of folks, who this time last year were worried about how they were going to get to the Fiesta Bowl and where they were going to spend Spring Break! 
~ 
= 
~ 

The May Department Stores Company 
Lord & Taylor, 14 States Robinson's, Los Angeles May Company, Ohio Meier & Frank, Portland, Ore. Foley's, Houston Kaufmann's, Pittsburgh G. Fox, Hartford Sibley's, Rochester, N.Y. May Company, California Famous-Barr, St. Louis L.S. Ayres, Indianapolis Volume Shoe Corporation, 43 States Hecht's, Washington, D.C. Filene's, Boston May D&F, Denver May Merchandising Corporation, New York 
l I 
~ 
1 1 

------~-~ ~--~---------­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, September 20, 1989 


Dart 
continued from page 1 
number (PIN), said Winicur. lie said the registrar will mail the student's appointment time on October 16. 
Winicur said the computer assigns access times when stu­dents do not have scheduled dasses. 
Individual departments will be rnsponsible for handing out PIN numbers to their students, said Winicur. lie said that somn departments may elect to combinn academic counseling with the distribution of PINs. 
Cnrtain classes will be "by permission only," meaning that studnnts must get permission from the department offering the class. The department will give students an authorization number that is necessary when registering for permission only classes, Winicur said. 
Onee students have read the sehedulc of courses and re­trieved their PIN and any nee­essary permission for autho­rization only dasses, they can fill out the DAHT worksheet. 
Winicur said the DAHT work­shent is dnsignnd to make using DAHT easier. Students write out course numbers and alter­nates prior to calling the sys­tem, he said. 
Students are all assigned to a 15 minute session to register between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. Stu­dents may register at their as­signed time from any touchtone telephone or a terminal in the Hegistrar's Offiee, said Wini­cur. 
Students will call DART and 
they will be asked to enter their 
nine-digit student identification 
number, their four-digit PIN 
number, and the semester code, 
Winicur said. 

Next, students will enter the 
call number for each of their 
courses, said Winicur. lie said 
the number will be listed in the 
Course Selection Booklet. 

The computer will tell the student immediately whether he or she got the class or not, said Winicur. "DAHT will eliminate the problem of not knowing what you've got until six weeks later," Winicur said. 
The computer also calculates the student's total credit hours and will not let students regis­ter for more than their college allows, Winicur said. 
If students are unable to reg­ister at the assigned time or want to add or drop a class, they may call back DART dur­ing the unrestricted call-back times-Monday-Friday 7 p.m. to 2 a.m. beginning the first day of registration and contin­uing through the first week of spring semester, said Winicur. 
Winicur said that students may not use the call-back op­tion until after their scheduled time. According to Winieur, the computer will not allow a stu­dent access until their sched­uled time. 
Each day during registration the courses and sections which are closed, added or reopened will be published in The Ob­server, in the Hegistrar's Office and in the departmental offices, said Winicur. 

9/25 Faculty, advisors, AL Seniors AL Seniors 
.!· 
chairs, deans, etc. (A-L) (M-Z) 
9/26 BA Seniors BA Seniors (T-Z) SC Seniors
) ; 
(A-S) EG Seniors MBA

' 
:~: : 
::·: 
9/27 Grad Students Grad Students Grad Students (A-A) (H-N) (0-Z) 
jl 10/2 LAW LAW BA Juniors (A-A) (S-Z) (A-S) 
10/3 ALJuniors AL Juniors (M-Z) BA Juniors ::· (A-L) EG Juniors (T-Z) 
10/9 SC Juniors AL Sophs AL Sophs (A-L) (M-Z) 
10/10 Faculty, advisors, BA Sophs SC Sophs ., ·:. chairs, deans, etc. (A-S) BA Sophs (T-Z) 
:~; ~ 
10/11
·::. 
.;: ::: :··. 
..• ·: ·:: 
Saturday. Oct. 14 8:00pm Morr1s C1v1c 
Allrii!O[IIIOJ 
all seats reserved 
$16 50 
Tickets on sale 
NOW 
C1v1c Box 
OffJce.NJghlwlnds. 
Record Connect1on & usual outlets CHARGE 284-9190 


The DART system has several features that will require some 
changes  in  the  way  that  
courses  are  set  up,  said  
Winicur  in  a  letter to  

department Chairmen. 
The DAHT system will auto­matically cut off enrollment at the maximum set by the De­partment, said Winicur. lie said that Chairmen will not have the chance to review the class list as in the past. 
In the letter Winicur said DART will automatically allo­cate the students into sections in multi-section courses. lie said it will no longer be neces­sary to use checkmarking for multi-section courses. 
Winicur said if Departments still want to maintain control over students who enroll in a course they may designate the class "Hegistration by Permis­sion." 
"I won't approve a permis­sion only course unless there is a good reason," said Winicur. lie said he expects there will be less "permission only" courses than there were checkmarked classes in the past. 
The letter also said that DAHT can automatically ex­clude any group of students from a course. For example, a dass that requires a pre-requi­site or is for seniors only. 
"We will need the cooperation of departments and students," said Winicur. "We need people to tell us how to make it (DART) better. We want feed­back from those who have tried the system." 
After registration both stu­dents and their advisors will receive a paper copy of the stu­dent's schedule, said Winicur. "Anytime a student wants to see what courses they regis­tered for, they can call up the system," he said. 
Winicur said that he will ask students to write their final schedules on a form so that his office will have the schedules on paper in case any problems should arise. 
He said that this will proba­bly be the only semester that students have to make a hard copy as this is the first time the computer has been used for registration. 
Winicur stressed the impor­tance of students attending the scheduled video presentation and reading the information in the Course Selection booklet as the system will be easier to use if students know how to use it correctly. 

Greg Boughton watches a color guard of ROTC students at the flag pole on South Quad as they practice for a POW/MIA retreat that will be held Thursday at 4:30 p.m. 




Hugo 
continued from page 1 
Fred Krounse, spokesman at Brevard County's emergency management office in Hock­ledge, Fla., said volunteers were getting 100 telephone calls an hour. 
Cruise ships steamed out of the way, while American Air­lines' heavy Caribbean service, which uses San Juan as its hub, was suspended. 
In San Juan, National Guardsmen with automatic ri­
fles  patrolled  streets  to  help  
police  with  rescue  and  to  
prevent  looting.  Police  

spokesman Tony Santiago said 40 businesses reported looting, much of which occurred at the height of the storm. Police had arrested 30 people on looting charge, he said. 
Looting by machete-wielding mobs was also reported on the island of St. Thomas in the U.S. 
Virgin Islands. 
Helie!' offieials asked for cots and plastic sheetings to use for shelters for the thousands of islanders whose homes were crumpled by II ugo, the fourth hurricane of the season and the first to hit Puerto Hico sincn 1956. 
Coast Guard vessels from Puerto Hico would scour the waters off the island because of reports "there are a lot of peo­ple stranded (on boats) out in the water," said Coast Guard Lt. Stan Douglas. 
Hugo walloped the northeast­ern part of the island, then skirted its populous northern coast on Monday. It churned on to the northwest and toward open water. It whirled past but missed the Dominican Republic. 
At least 25 people in the Caribbean died from the storm, said Cizanette Hivera, a spokeswoman for the Civil De­fense in Puerto Hico. 




(conoco) 
MARKETING, NORTH AMERICA 
December, May, and August graduates of the COLLEGE OF BUSINESS are invited to attend a presentation/reception on career opportunities with Marketing, North America 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1989 6:00-B:OOp.m. 
Upper Lounge, University Club Refreshments Served 
We also plan to participate in "Meet the Firms Night" on Sept. 19 from 6:00-10:00 in the monogram room and concourse of the JACC, so please plan to come by and visit with our representative at CONOCO's booth! 
Wednesday, September 20, 1989 The Observer 
Foremost among these prior­ities are the Third World debt

Lecture N.D. receives $1.3 M in grants 
crisis, the drug problem, the

continued from page 3 
nuclear issue and environmen­


prospects of success are also tal concerns, he said. Special to The Observer of aerospace and mechanical to Poland for the 19th Sympo­encouraging, according to Mc­McFarlane has worked in 
engineering, on a novel breath-sium on Fluid Mechanics for Farlane. This is due to the re­diplomatic and policy spheres The University of Notre Dame ing cooling device. Albin Szewczyk, professor of gion's solid infrastructure and for the past 30 years. He received $1,354,728 in grants $28,000 from the National aerospace and mechanical the availability of Western aid. served as a commander in Viet­during August for the support Institutes of Health for enzyme­engineering.A literate population comprised nam, as the military assistant of research and various pro-assisted synthesis of beta-lac­Awards for facilities and largely of relatively skilled to former Secretary of State grams. Research funds totaled tam antibiotics by Marvin equipment totaled $39,782, in­workers who are well-educated Henry Kissinger, as a senior $920,862, including: Miller, professor of chemistry, cluding:will also aid the effort, said staff advisor to the Senate $158,162 from the National and Albert Minnick, postdoc­$24,782 from the National 
McFarlane. Armed Services Committee, as Institutes of Health for molecu-toral student. Institutes of Health for a small 
As a result of the changing an assistant to Alexander Haig lar analysis of phototransduc-$28,000 from the J.S. instrumental program adminis­global power structures, Mc­in the State Department, and tion in Drosophila by David Guggenheim Memorial Founda­tered by Thomas Nowak, pro­Farlane also predicted the So­as a deputy advisor under Na­Hyde, assistant professor of tion for research by ThQmas fessor of chemistry. viet Union's international influ­tional Security Advisor William biological sciences. Kselman, associate professor $~ 5,000 from the National 
ence will decline and the United Clark. $117,577 from Occidental of history, on views of death Institutes· of Health for a grantStates will emerge as the sole He is currently the director of Chemical Corp. for research on and the afterlife in nineteenth supplement administered bysuper-power by the turn of the the Strategic Policy Discussion biodegradative activities of century France. Cornelius Browne, professor of century. He questioned Group, a bi-partisan group of bacteria in liquid/solid phase by $15,000 from the American physics.whether the United States was international affairs experts Charles Kulpa, associate pro-Council for a Learned Society Awards for instructional ready for this power shift and and statesmen that provides· fessor of biological sciences. for research by Paolo Visona, programs totaled $211,272 for also wondered how foreign policy recommendations for de­$90,744 from the National assistant professor of classical a program in experimentalcountries -particularly U.S. al­terring nuclear war to the Bush Institutes of Health for re-oriental language and litera­parasitology and vector biologylies -would react to this situa­administration. search by Sunny Boyd, assis-tures, on Carthaginian bronze administered by Karamijit Rai, tion. "Will they be comfort­McFarlane's lecture was tant professor of biological coinage. professor of biologicalable with the U,S. as the sponsored by the Ideas and Is­sciences, on sexual dimorphism $15,000 from the National sciences. biggest tiger on the block?" he sues Committee of the Student in neuropeptide systems. Science Foundation for re-Awards for service programsasked. Union Board $72,429 from Amoco Chemi-search by Victor Nee, professor totaled $29,977 from private 
cal Research Center for re-of aerospace and mechanical benefactors for programs of search on phthalic acid degra-engineering, on a structure the Institute for Pastoral and
SECURITY BEAT 
dation in anaerobic biofilms by safety monitoring system. Social Ministry, the Center for Charles Kulpa, associate pro-$8,500 from the National Social Concerns, and the Notre
9:55 p.m.: A resident of Breen-Phillips reported the theft of her gas cap and 8

TUESDAY, SEPT. 12 
fessor of biological sciences. Science Foundation for a coop-Dame Center for Pastoral Li­
gallons of gasoline while her vehicle was2:45 p.m.: Notre Dame Security re­

$70,150 from Occidental erative study of subsurface turgy.
parked in the D-2 lot sometime between ceived a report of a suspicious person 

Chemical Corp. for research on flow and transport simulation Awards for other programs
6 p.m. on 9/7 and 10 a.m. on 9/14.

near Courtney Lanes. The man report­
radiolytic destruction of organ-by William Gray, professor of totaled $152,835, including: 
edly asked for assistance in reaching his car and appeared to be faking a limp. 
11:41 p.m: Notre Dame Police were 

ics by Robert Irvine, professor civil engineering. $73,000 from the National 
called to the scene of a one car accident 

of civil engineering, Charles $6,000 from Dumbarton Science Foundation for a grad­
on Angela Blvd. The driver apparently7:50 p.m.: Notre Dame Security re­

Kulpa, associate professor of Oaks for a senior fellowship in uate research fellowship pro­
lost control on the wet pavement andceived a report of an attempted theft 

biological sciences, and William Byzantine studies for Daniel gram administered by Chau Le, 
struck the fence around Burke Memorialoutside the law school. The victim was Golf Course. No injuries were reported. 

Gray, professor of civil engi-Sheering, professor of classical assistant vice president for ad­
approached by a white male subject on 
roller skates who attempted to snatch 
neering. oriental languages and litera-vanced studies. 
the victim's briefcase. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15 
$62,500 from the National tures. $47,820 from the National Science Foundation for re-$5,000 from Chevron Re­Endowment for the Humanities
8:20 a.m.: Notre Dame Security re­ceived several larceny reports of stereos 

WEDNESDAY,SEPT13 
search by Jeffrey Kantor, asso-search Co. for research by for a summer program on Pas­
in vehicles parked in the St. Joseph Hall 

ciate professor of chemical Mark McCready, assistant pro­cal's Pensees and faith, reason,
11:10 a.m.: An off campus student re­lot. The thefts occurred sometime be­ported the theft of his locked bike from 
engineering, on process dynam-fessor of chemical engineering, and the meaning of life admin­
tween 1 and 8:10a.m. 

the front of the Earth Science Building 
ics and control. on capillary effects in gas-liquid istered by Thomas Morris, as­
sometime between 8 p.m. on 9/12 and 
$62,500 from the National flows. sociate professor of philoso­
1 p.m.: A Grace Hall resident reported Midnight on 9/13. The victim's loss is es­the theft of a pair of running tights from 

Science Foundation for re-$4,000 from the National phy.
timated to be $100. 
outside his room sometime between 

search by Hsueh-Chia Chang, Science Foundation for inesca­
9:30p.m. on 9/14 and 1 p.m. on 9/15. His6 p.m.: Notre Dame Security received a 

professor of chemical engineer-ble shock and feedback re­$31,165 from the U.S. De­
loss is estimated at $20. 

report of a two vehicle accident in the D­
ing, on nonlinear techniques. search on the role of feedback partment of Education for a
6 lot. No injuries were reported. 
$55,000 from the U.S. Navy stimulus by D. Chris Anderson, Jacob Javitz fellowship pro­
SATURDAY, SEPT.16 

6:05 p.m.: A Grace Hall resident re­
for analysis of large structure professor of psychology, and gram administered by Chau Le,
ported the theft of his laundry from out­
surbulence by Hafiz Atassi, Joseph Torrez, graduate stu­assistant vice president for ad­
7:45 a.m.: Notre Dame Police recov­side his room sometime between 9/12 ered a vehicle stolen from South Bend. 

professor of aerospace and dent. vanced studies. 
and 9/13. His loss is estimated at $250. 
The vehicle was located in the C-1 lot. 

mechanical engineering. $3,179 from the National In-$750 from the National En­$52,266 from the National stitutes of Health for x-ray and dowment for the Humanities
THURSDAY, SEPT. 14 7:30 p.m.: A Fisher Hall resident re­ported the theft of his watch and cash 
Science Foundation for re-chemical studies of metallopor­for a critical ediction of Gram­
from his unlocked room sometime be­

search by Daniel Costello, pro-phyrins by W. Robert Scheidt, sci's prison notebooks adminis­
3:15p.m.: A resident of Pasquerilla East 
tween 2:30 and 6 p.m. 

reported the theft of cash from her room 
fessor of electrical and com-professor of chemistry. tered by Joseph Buttigieg, as­
sometime between 10 a.m. on 9/9 and 2 
puter engineering. $2,000 from Argonne Na-sociate professor of English. 
p.m. on 9/14. SUNDAY, SEPT. 17 
$32,483 from Lilly Endow-tiona! Laboratory for physics Supercomputing time from 
ment for research on the his-research by James Kolata, pro-the National Center of Super­
3:45 p.m.: A South Bend resident re­
6:00p.m.: A resident of Lyons Hall re­

ported the theft of his stereo system 
tory of the Hispanic Catholic fessor of physics. computing for research on flow
ported that her bicycle had been stolenfrom his unlocked car while it was parked 

parish by Jay Dolan, professor $1,272 from the National In­instabilities, bifurcations, and
from the bike rack outside Lyons Hallin the B-2 lot sometime between 11 :15 sometime between 9/15 and 9/17. Her 

of history, and Sr. Mary Ewens, stitutes of Health for research chaos by Kwang-Tzu Yang,
a.m. and 1 p.m. The victim's loss is esti­loss is estimated to be $200. 
adjunct professor in the arts by Paul Huber, assistant pro­Hank professor of aerospace
mated to be $300. 
9:00p.m.: A law student reported me 

and letters core courses. fessor of chemistry, on protein and mechanical engineering,
5:30p.m.: Notre Dame Security recov­theft of his unlocked bicycle from the 
$30,000 from the National binding sites. and Joseph Londino and Deva­
ered a stolen auto in the D-2 lot. The front of the law school. His loss is esti­
Science Foundation for ·re-$1,100 from the National datta Mukutmoni, graduate
auto had been stolen from Niles on 9/11. mated to be $150. 
search by Victor Nee, professor Science Foundation for travel students.
r-----------------------------------1
I · bl Now Delivering to Notre Dame Campus!I ~l3:rI o8ta~ TryourNE~ SuperThinPizza&GourmetCookies I 
I 277-5300
1 Delivery Hours 1I
1 FAST, FREE
1 DELIVERY FROM Man-Sun 5:00-10:00 Breadsticks * Handtossed Pizza* II1 Deep Dish Pizza* Super Thin Pizza* Dine In or Carry Out Salads* Sandwiches* Beverages* 1 I also available Fresh Baked Gourmet Cookies 1 
II I .______ I 





--------r--------T---------1I 
I $4 00 Off , IDinner for 2 I $9.99 Pan pizza $6.99 Super Thin Pizza I
I . d -r. 20 . Just $5.99 Dinner Speruu with. 3 FREE TOPPINGS 
I 
I Han -.l.OSSed Paza Includes your choice ofa small D=p· . . .. I S4.00 offour 20" fund-Tossed Round Dish Sic:ilian or 12· Hand·Tosscd Round ~~8"' ~-D=p:~IShSo~ or Choose up to 3 toppings for free I pizz:twith thr=ormorc toppings. oc IO" Pm Bno•wimone topping and and two~~":s:ads~~ ppmg when you purchase a 14" Super one order ofBrcadsucks. Thin Cheese Pizza I 
I =-. I
I --..~~"" ~...:.~; ~'Mlhl~. =;;_:-:E:"" ~hi ~--~........nr ..""' 
~..,:. ..._. r-on.'Nobl . Dec.3o, 1989 'l(oj}laQS Qtk,...,.,._...· 0 &8 ~..:.~= <Noble. I
I Dec. 30,1989 'l@lttaru1 •I''.. I Dec. 30,1989 ~f,l?~fU Dec. 30,1989 ~omar~ I
I BS-A • I ' '.. ~ BS-C • I '
BS-B BS-D ' .. 


w ---------------~---~----·--------~ 
r-----------------------------------------~------------------,----------------------------------------------------~--­

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, September 20, 1989

page_e 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor ....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor ....................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager...: ........ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Ma.rk Derwent Photo Editor... . ....................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .................. Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Edltor ............... Christine Gill Controller ............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob· jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, 
"W~EN DIDTJ.IEY PVT 11-IAT TllERE 9"
through letters, is encouraged. 
Shakespeare translation takes to the streets 

Hcccntly it has been brought to my attention by a professor of English that Barron's, the company that prints guide­books to just about everything, has unveiled the latest marvel of the age: street-English translations of Shakespeare's major works. The brochure, whieh pushes these latest ca­pitulations to the world of lit­crary barbarism, claims that the Barron play translations, free of 'confusing' meter. verse and archaic language, are in use in a high percentage of American high schools in lieu of the real thing. 
Huminating over the logical conclusions of such a step by the good people at Barron's, I came upon an interesting thought. If Shakespeare may be thus rendered 'easy to digest' for the general public, play by play, why not make it even easier to digest by creating 'regional translations' and combine all his plays and char­acters in one small volume? As a result, people would really be able to feel that the events therein were taking place right in their own colorful environs, say, for instance, in the apart­ment hallway or the room of some noisy neighbors. The lan­guage, moreover, would be in their own tongue, and much te­dious reading would be spared by the synthesis of plays. As a case in point, a Canadian edi­tion would go something like this: "It's the winter of our discontent, you hoser, eh?" 
Very often I have been wrongly accused of having a 'New Jersey' accent, when in fact no such thing exists. Back before the dawn of history, immigrants from the Far East, namely Brooklyn and Staten Island, invaded New Jersey, de­stroying the Garden State's se­mantic splendor. Thus, the ac­cent would better be labelled 
Glenn G. Fogarty 
With No Apologies 

the. 'New York Metropolitan 
Area' or 'Brooklyn' accent. 
Feeling superbly qualified in the 
nuances of this dialect, I have 
set about writing. in hope of 
securing big bucks from 
Barron's, the greatest transla­
tion of them all, 'Shakespeare 
in Brooklyn' and am releasing 
this excerpt to whet the ap­
petites of those untold millions 
who have been waiting for 
something just like it. 

(Scene: Somewhere in 
Brooklyn. Enter Hamlet.) 

Hamlet: Is I to be, or is I 
ain't? That's what I's as kin. Is 
it better to sits here like a 
couch potato or somethin', or 
go down like to Prospect Park 
and mug those two little punks, 
Rosen and Gildenstein? Whats 
do I do, you know? This con­
science stuff makes .... 
(Enter Macbeth) 

Macbeth: Life ain't nothin' 
but a walkin' shadow, a lousy 
actor who struts around like he 
was John Travolta or some­
thin', worries a lot, and then ya 
don't hear of him no more. It's 
a tale told by a guy from 
Bedford-Stuyvesant, chock-full 
of noise and stuff, signifyin' 
nothin'. 

Hamlet: Yo, you in the plaid dress. Who in the hell is you? Like, dis is my solioqueasy, ya know. 
Macbeth: It's in the script, pal. Barronspeare says I's sup­posed to come in. Chill, man. 
Hamlet: Well, whad'ys ex­pects me to do. It's my big scene, likes. Bys the way, yous speakin' it all wrong. Ya gotta do it with fee lin'. Dis is hi-cul­toor stuff, ya knows. 
(Enter Ophelia) 

Ophelia: My lawd, I guts stuff 

A5 YOU KN(}f,(), f,l,l;.AJ?& tfXJKJNG TO CA!3T TH/3 FEMAt./3 CO-H05T 7V­
/JAY. lAT/3~ IN THe l?AY, M~. TRUMP ai/U-.8£3 COMIN6 IN 70 
'- PeRSONALLY  
f?eVIW 7Ht3  
FINAUSP3!  
i  
~  
r  
~  
~  


of yus that I's been waitins to delivus. 
Hamlet: You ain't supposed to come in yet. I ain't done! Go down, Gina, and do some more manicures on those babes with the blue hair. 
Ophelia: You know, Vinny, I is get tin' sick of be in' yelled at by youse. I is gonna be an artiste, a great actress, like Madonnas or somethin'. Ya know'? 
Hamlet: You? You are nothin'. Nothin' but a big mouth with teased hair. 
Ophelia: Just go on with da play, Vinny. 
Hamlet: Okay. Yo, Ophelia, babe, gets yuself to a convent. And get that mousse out of ya hair. Go to the Joisey shore or Lawng Ilind or somethin'. 
Ophelia: Vinny, ya know, you is gonna be the next Lorance Ollyvey or somethin'. 
Hamlet: Who's he? Was he the guy on Cheers? Macbeth: Who's this? . (Enter Richard III) Richard: Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this son of York. And all the clouds that loured upon our house In the deep bosom of the ocean buried. 
Macbeth: Just what, ya know, do ya think lw says by that? 
Hamlet: I ain't got no clue, what, so, or ever. 
Ophelia: He's like spcakin' in eye-amm-buck pentimimeters or somethin'. Barronspeare says we ain't to do that, you know? 
Richard: (Turns to Ophelia) Was ever woman in this humor wooed? Was ever woman in this humor won? 
Ophelia: Yo, Vinny! I thinks this creep is makin' a pass at 
me or somethin'. Call Bellevue. Richard: Jlave done thy charms, thou hateful moussed 
hag.  
(Enter Ralph  Kramden  and  
Ed  Norton.  from  The  
Honeymooners)  

Ed: lley, !ley, Halphy boy! Who am these people'? 
Halph: Probably Alice's friends, Norton. One of these days ... Aliee... Pow! Hight in the Kisser! 
Hamlet: This ain't in the script! Let's get out of here, ya know? 
{Exeunt Jlamlet. Macbeth, Ophelia) 
I couldn't think of a good end­ing, so I'm stopping here for now. That is, until a big check from the people at Barron's (those literary dynamos) ar­rives in the mail. 
Glenn G. Fogarty is a junior History/ALPA major and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

LETTERS 
SMC students unfairly afflicted by vaccination problem 
Dear Editor: 
On Sept. 8, The Observer ran a front page headline concern­ing the measles emergency and free immunizations offered at Notre Dame. Being a Saint Mary's senior nursing student, I have never felt more com­pelled to write and express my frustration at the way this emergency was and is continu­ing to be taken care of. 
Since the CDC determined that "more than 10,000 cases of measles have been reported (key word here) in the U.S. since January," perhaps Health Services at Saint Mary's might have slightly anticipated an outbreak. Granted, a notice was sent home to all students alerting us to have our measles vaccinations updated. That's great. 
My concern is for how the emergency is being handled now. Health Services offered free vaccinations last Monday for an hour and a half for 1800 women. When I proceeded to call for information, I was told that they are "Out... today and tomorrow, and you can't go to Notre Dame either. " Now it's going to cost us $30.00 and we don't know when we'll have them--maybe sometime next week. "First come, first serve." 
We are a community, or so I thought. Why can't Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Health Services work together on this issue? I don't mind paying the extra $25.00 for the football tickets, but $30.00 because Saint Mary's wasn't, as one nurse at Saint Mary's said, "lucky enough, like Notre Dame was, to receive ample amounts of the vaccine."? To my knowledge, Saint Mary's hasn't had an outbreak yet, but it's only a matter of time. 
We socialize, take classes, communicate, and have family over at Notre Dame. Instead of having more luck, let's just prevent the spread by lengthen­ing the vaccination times avail­able and continuing to provide current, accurate information so rumors of quarantine won't continue. 
Or haven't you heard the lat­est? 
Peggy McGuire LeMans llall Sept. 11, 1989 
'Each friend represents a world in us, a world possibly not born until they arrive, and it is only by this meeting that a new world is 
born.' 



Anais Nin 
----------------------. 


Accent
Wednesday, September 20, 1989 paqe 9 


'The movies don't give you any sense of the terror and the fatalism of combat. They certainly don't give you any sense of what it's like to kill another human being.' 
ROBYN SIMMONS 
assistant accent editor 
John Powers still remembers Sept. 1, 1939-the day World War II broke out. 
"I was just a kid pushing twelve, but that's the kind of thing you don't forget," he said. 'The thing was so encompass­ing and millions died that a kid who was 11 pushing 12 was in it before it was over." 
By the end of the war, Powers was a 17 -year-old paratrooper. "Paratroopers tend to be very disciplined units," he explained. "I did it rather well, and that's what bothers you for the rest of your life." 
Now an adjunct associate pro­fessor of American Studies and executive editor of the South Bend Tribune, Powers is one of several Notre Dame faculty members who served in World War II. The experiences Powers recalls from the war hardly re­semble the glorified tales of courage depicted in the John Wayne war movies. 
"[The movies) don't give you any sense of the terror and the fatalism of combat. They cer­tainly don't give you any sense of what it's like to kill another human being," said Powers. 
Howard Saz, a professor of bi­ological sciences, also had war experiences which in no way par­allel Hollywood's treatment of World War II. Saz was missing in action (MIA) for four months and a prisoner of war (POW) for six months in a German camp. 
Saz was captured along with six other members of his infantry unit in late 1944 close to the French-Austrian border. "Our pa­trol started to come through this opening...the Germans were on both flanks upon a hill, a platoon of them, and they pinned us down. So we destroyed our radio and we were captured." 
For any American soldier cap­tured by the Germans, the out­look was certainly grim, but Saz was in even greater danger: he was Jewish. 
"One of the first things I did was to destroy my dog tags (be­cause) they have your religion on it," said Saz. "I claimed I was Presbyterian; I didn't even know what it meant. 
"One of the people was a fellow from the Bronx, New York, who unfortunately was also Jewish," he said. "They interrogated all of us, and we all went to prison camp together except for him. We never saw him again. Maybe he didn't throw away his dog tags-! don't know. 


WORLDW*A*R 

"We were moved around and moved in those big freight cars. They took us to Stalag 12A and Stalag 3A. Stalag 3A was close to the Polish border. And they actually marched us, and this was in the winter. 
"They marched us by foot to Stalag 3B which was a little bit south of Berlin," said Saz. "I know it took many days. I don't know whether it was one week or two weeks ...a lot of prison­ers never made it." 
Saz was still in Stalag 3B when President Franklin D. Roosevelt died. "That's when the German guards came in and announced to us that America's number one Jewish gangster had died. They called him Ro­senfeld instead of Roosevelt," he said. 
Both Saz and Powers have vivid recollections of the end of the war in both the European and Pacific theaters. 
Saz and his fellow prisoners were liberated when the Rus­sian tanks rolled into their camp. "They held us for a cou­ple of weeks before they made contact with the American lines, and they treated us very well," said Saz. 'They were very sym­pathetic. 
'They finally did make contact to the American lines .. .I was under 90 pounds. The Germans barely fed us, and when we got to the American lines we were deloused and our clothes were burned." 
Saz was taken to Camp Lucky Strike in Southern France be­fore returning home. "They wouldn't take us home because we were so malnourished," he said. "They were afraid that people in the states would see what we looked like. We finally put on enough weight and they shipped us home." 
Thousands of miles away and a few months later, the war ended in Japan. 
"Most of us-let me shock you-welcomed the news of the bomb," said Powers. "The war was over and we felt very re­lieved. 
"When we saw Japan and what they had waiting for us, it reinforced our view that we were glad they dropped the bomb," said Powers. 
"Those of us who were young enough to stay for the occupa­tion had a pretty terrible opin­ion about the Japanese," said Powers. "But when you stay two and a half years...(we) wound up with a very interesting love/ hate relationship with the Japa­nese." 
Now, almost 50 years after the war's end, the images of World War II still remain in the memories of those who fought in it. For these men, the reality of war proved to be more hor­rible than any battle recreated for the big screen. 
"The best way to see the downside of war is to look at a soldier that just stepped on a land mine," said Powers. "You either start to believe in God or blow your brains out. And both happened. 
"We all thought we were all doing the right thing," said Pow­ers. "Basically, the whole coun­try was for it, the whole mood was different. ..Maybe the way we look at 'Nam is the way we should look at war. It's just a bad way to settle anything." 
Colleen Cronin also con­tributed to this story. 

The Observer accepts class1l1eds every busmess day I rom t 0 a.m. to 3:30pm att11e Notre Dame off1ce. 3t4 LaFortune. and from t2:30 to 3 p.m at the Samt Marys office Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class1f1eds IS 3 p.m. All class11ieds must be 
prepaid The charge 1s 2 cents per character per day. 1ncludmg spaces 
Classifieds 
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, September 20, 1989 

NOTICES  Desperately seeking 4 MSU and 4 PittGA's Call Jenny at 284-4213  Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC  WE DESPERATELY NEED TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME. WILLING TO PAY BIG$$! PLEASE  I'VE GOT FIFTY REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD SELL ME YOUR MICH ST GA OR STUD TIX.  HEY! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU CALLJOHN X1761  
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS 1111111111!111!11  We need a couch/sofa ASAP. If you'd like to sell yours, please call x3442.  and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at  HELP! CALL X1338 ASK FOR JENNIFER OR EVELYN I NEED 6 PITT TICKETS CALL 277-9281 OR X2760. WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$  call Mark 427 4 $$$NEED 2 PITT OR SMU GAs Cheryl x2629  HAVE 2 GA'S FOR NAVY AND 2 FOR PITT---WILL TRADE FOR 3 USC. CALL ANNE AT 2670. NEED 3 MSU GA's  
Word processing experience plus BA in English 271-0682. THE NORTHERN IRELAND AWARENESS GROUP WILL HOLD ITS FIRST MEETING OF  Need ride to Pittsburgh (just one way) for October break. Need to leave Sunday morn. the 22 (after the USC game). Will help with expenses. Call Nicole 2784. PART-TIME ASSISTANT COACH  1-800-828-8955 today. WANTED: 4 NO/USC tickets. Pat Burns (317)848-1500 or (317)  Need two SMU tix please call 284­493011!1!1!!!1 NEED 2 GA AND 1 STU TICKET FOR MICH ST. CALL CHRIS AT X1067.  USC TICKETS RICH ALUM NEEDS STUDENT AND GA TICKETS TO USC GAME WILL PAY BIG$$$ NANCY 277-7593  Have$$$ Call Tariq@ X3475 I need USC GA's. Will beat best oHer. Ann x2830  
THE YEAR ON THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 21ST AT 7:30pm IN THE MONTGOMERY THEATRE, LaFORTUNE CENTRE. FOR MORE INFO. Pis. call 289-2843.  NEEDED FOR LOCAL AGE GROUP SWIM TEAM. 2-3 NIGHTS PER WEEK. PREVIOUS COACHING/SWIM LESSON EXPERIENCE HELPFUL. CALL  758-4056 (nights). Need 1 tix for Michigan State Student or G.A. $Cash$ or trade( USC or PITT)  NEED SEVERAL PITT GA'S PLEASEII #2819  HELP Need 6 GA's and 2 students, cousins think I have pull Don't let them change their mind ... call Bill 277-3653 thanks  Need Pitt student tix (3). Call Nicole 2784. 2 Pitt stud tickets for sale! x1804  
233-1366 OR 232-0589.  Call Mike 2031  HAVE TWO PITT G.A. TICKETS  Call Dan at 271-9821  
TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 684-6793 LEGAL SECRETARY WILL DO TYPING/WORD PROCESSING. PICK UP & DELIVERY AVAILABLE. CALL 255-1726. SAINT MARY'S RIDING CLUBII!I CLASSES NOW FORMING • ENGLISH AND WESTERN • INTERCOLLIGIATE SHOWING • P.E. CREDIT AVAILIABLE <CALL EMILY AT 284-5085> OR SHERRIE AT 663-3066  Yo ! Even if your a member of the "BMX Accosters," I will buy plenty of your MSU student tix. Call Kelley at 1786 to increase your cash supply so you can rent a real date I Ride wanted for beginning of Oct. break 10/20 or 10/21. Going to Northwest New Jersey near Allentown PA. area. Please call Sandy at 3890. Will share cost and driving. Now hiring part time waitress for IIIIlCh and dinner hours. Apply 2-Spm at Oriental Express 6329 University Commons ~ust _,o1 Univ Pwt< Malt on State  Need up to 4 Mich St & 8 Pitt TIX Money no problem!! Mike X1236 NEED 2 SMU TIX-GA OR STU. NAME YOUR PRICE!!! CALL MATT #3489 MICHIGAN STATE GA TIC NEEDED FOR DAD. WILL PAY BIG$$$. CALL 1224. need 8 Mich St Ga's. Rick #1795 IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 MICH ST GA'S CALL CHERIE  ANDWOULD LIKE TO TRADE FOR TWO USC G.A.'S. PLEASE CALL X4023 NEEDED TWO MICHIGAN STATE TIX -STUD OR GA. HELP TWO ALUMNI. CALL #4041 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 4 STU. & 4 GA TIX FOR MIG. ST. X232-9857 NEED 4 OR 5 GA's FOR USC!!! CALL MIKE 232-5571  The Units need USC Tix! Call Amy at 2640. BIG$$$! .... NEED 4 USC TIX '"' call 283-3035 • leave a message ..... I NEED 2 USC GA'S'"FOR BIG$$ CALLS. MARK 277-6087 Help I need 2 G.A.'s for U.S.C. Price is no object. Tara 284-5195 HAVE 1 MICH ST STUD FOR SALE OR TRADE NEED 2 GA AND 2 STUD FOR USC call 3095 or 1735  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DESPERATELY NEEDED­MICHIGAN STATE TIX!!!! NEED 3 STUDENT TIX AND 4 GA'S. BIG MONEY BIG MONEY!!II CALL JONPAUL AT X1603 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. ST PLEASE!!!!!! MY LITTLE SIS IS COMING OUT+ PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF SHE DOES'NT GO. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE TIX! CALL MATT #3489 NEED UP TO 6 USC TICKETS. MONEY IS NO PROBLEM. CALL JIM AT X1236.  
RECYCLIN' IRISH dorm reps 2nite-LaFortune Dooley Am. -7pm TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. Word Processing available. Reasonable rates. 277-6091  Road 23, next 1o Kroger. 272-6702 FOR RENT 6 BEDROOM HSE 8 BLKS FROM NO. ROOMS FOR RENT OR TAKE ENTIRE HSE. 288-3613.  X4969 NEED 5 MICH ST. TIX CALL DAVE 283-1417 I NEED 3 MICH. ST. GA'S CALL BILL X4274  I need 10 Mich. St. Tix!! I have 2 Pitt Tix to sell Pat x1857 NEED TICKETS FOR ALL N.D. GAMES. 272-9772 AFTER -P.M. Pitt tix desperately needed I! call KEVIN 1636 DESPERATELY NEED MICH.  HELP A SAD LITTLE GIRL!!! I need a MICH. ST. ticket for my 12 year old sister , otherwise she can't come with Mom & Dad. Call Pat at x1159. HAVE 1 MICH ST GA WILL TRADE FOR 1 USC GA CALL 1655 OR 4224  I  Need up to 4 Mich State. Good $$$ oHered. Kevin 1663. ---------------············-----····· I REALLY NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S. PLEASE CALL BETH-X4852 I REALLY NEED 4 MSU TICKETS. CALL BEN AT 1126.  

 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  STATE GA TIX. CALL LAURA 284­ NEED CASH ???  Sell me 2 GA's  
LOST/FOUND FOUND: PR. OF HARD CONTACTS outside of LYONS HALL. Please see Sister Jeannine of Lyons if they are yours.  219-291-7153. HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT THE "IRISH B&B" FOR FOOTBALL WEEKEND8-RING 272-7738  HELP! I NEED 2 MICH ST TIX. PLEASE CALL KRIS X2674 DESPARATE FOR 2 MSU GA'S AND USC STUD. WILL TRADE A PITT JOHN2207  5204. YOU NEED MSU STUD TIC. I NEED GAS$$$$. CALL WATTS X3500 & LEAVE YOUR OFFER.  for MICHIGAN ST Call Laura x2851 Have 1 Mich. St. and 1 Pitt stud ticket. BEST OFFER. DENNIS OR MATT X2371.  Help' I Need Tickets! I need 12 SMU G.A.'s , and a student ticket to any home game for my sister at West Virginia University who wants to see a real football game. Call Gina at X2690.  
FOUND: MIKE FROM MAINE, I FOUND YOUR WALLET IN C1/D1 LOT ON 9/11. TO CLAIM CALL 1069. LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH RING OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND STONE REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF FOUND. LOST: JEAN JACKET WITH CORDUROY COLLAR. JACKET HAS A TEAR BEHIND THE NECK AND HAS A 1988 US OLYMPIC PIN ON THE LEFT POCKET. REWARD OFFERED FOR  FOR SALE COLOR TV RENTALS 13-INCH, $50/SEM, $80/YR; 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959 '89 ND GRAD SELLING '82 OLDS WAGON. GOOD CONDITION, RUNS WELL. NO PROBLEMS STARTING OR MAINTAINING. $1200 (NEG.) GREAT FOR  I NEED 8 MSU GA'S. CALL BRIAN 288-8527 OR KIM 284-4169. LET'S TRADE I HAVE: HOTEL ROOMS FOR MICHIGAN STATE WEEKEND. NEED: 2 NO/USC GA'S. MEGAN 4825. NEED 4 USC GA'S. CALL 271­9830. DESPERATELY SEEKING 5 USC GA'S. PLEASE CALL CARl 2855. NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL JACK 2366.  Need 1 Mich. State stud. or G.A. Todd #277-9469 Need many MIAMI tix. $ $ $ $ Barry 289-8417. Need 2 GA's to either NAVY or SMU. Please call Dave-#3313.  NEED 2 USC GA'S CALL CAROLYN X4510 ROADTRIP BOOKLETS STILL AVAILABLE in the Senior Class OHice from 3-5 daily only $2 DON'T MISS OUT ! ! ! ! I DEMAND 6 stud tix and 2 GA's for the PITT game--Pete L.x1791 I NEED MICH. ST. TIX x1758 WANTED: 2 Mich St GA's You name the price Call Kevin at 3279  Need 2 GA's for MICH ST & up to 4 PITT. Will Pay. Call Beth 3706 Need GAs or STU Tix to ANY HOME GAME esp USC Have GAs & STU Tix SMU Will trade/bargain/Buy for MORE $ than anyone else CALL ROB #1305 PITT or USC GAs needed desparately. Please call Mike at #2288. NEED SEVERAL PITT TIX  
RETURN. CALL MARK . X3467 LOST I! GOLD CHAIN WITH CROSS, sometime Thurs 9/14 MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE PLEASE call Christine at 2905  SCHOOL. BETTER FOR GETTING TO & FROM. CALL CHRIS AT (312) 935-8368 AFTER 7PM.  H.......E.....L.....P NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER) FOR ANY GAME. WILL PAY BIG MOOLAH ($$).PLEASE CALL JEFF 277-3998.  I N~ED USC GA'S!!!!I!!!!!I! Am willing to trade Mich St. Pitt, Navy, SMU, and Purdue or pay big doughII call (219) 283-3571  I need Mich. St. tix. Please call Allison, x2741. I have 2 MBA student tickets for Southern Cal, Pitt, Navy and SMU.  PLEASEII #2819 NEED 2 MSU GA'S AND 4 STUDENT TIX BADLY. WILL PAY BIG$$$. CALL MITCH AT 2061.  
if found. Reward. LOST: Minella camara in a tan  73 Kawasaki 250 Enduro; runs great. Askng $300; KEN 233-9106  NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITT. CALL DAVE 1597.  I need 4 GA's for NAVY and 2 Student Tix for PITT.$$$$$$$ call Tom@ 267-8648  I need 2 Navy GA's. Let's dealll Call 256-2264 but not after 10pm.  I want to buy your PURDUE tickets call Will 4048  
case. VERY VALUABLE! LARGE REWARD I Call283·1863 FOUND: 4 keys on ring, in lront of Fisher Hall Fri 16SEP. call Patrick #2383, describe and claim. LOST: Set ol5 keys, on 9/18 P.M., on road between Stepan Center and Power Plant. Call Mike, x2010.  1980 4 door Honda Accord Call #3619­Price Negotiable Sale I MSU, SMU, Pitt stu. tix. 271­9714 Hurry I 19" Color TV, Microwave, size 10 Fur Coat, Refrigerator, $80 each. Pub signs. 233-4935 before 1Opm. 2 Pitt stud tickets for sale-best oHer!  HELP! I NEED 2 TIX TO THE MICH. STATE GAME. PLS. CALL MAURA X288-0885. HELP! I NEED TICKETS 12SMU 2USC AND A TICKET TO ANY HOME GAME FOR MY SISTER AT WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY WHO WANTS TO SEE A REAL FOOTBALL GAME. CALL GINA AT 2690  Helpl Help! Help! I need to find two Mich St GA's or student tix and am wiling to pay mucho $$ Call Mike at x2002 Please save me from the wrath of my sister. I will trade pitt stud tix and/or pay lots of $$for Michigan State studs or gas! Call Tim 1064. ••••••••••••••"TRADE''''""''''  MICHIGAN STATE STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE. CALL RENEE AT 4817 WILL ACCEPT BEST OFFER. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'S PLEASE CALL 277-9281 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ "TRADE" HAVE: 2 MICH ST GAS NEED: 2 USC GAS CHRIS X3460  Help Two Brothers coming in for Mich St Need two tckts Stud or GA Willing to pay call Keven #2300 Need 2 GAs to USC. Have 2 Mich. St. GAs to trade. Evenings 239­7998 NEED 2 USC GA'S Please Call Vin x-2015  
....  LOST: IF ANY ONE PICKED UP MY JEAN JACKET AT SENIOR BAR WEDNESDAY NIGHT, PLEASE CALL JOHN OWENS #3087. IT HAS MY LAUNDRY TAG ON IT. THANKS. LOST: Pair of Prescription GLASSES in a brown. felt case. Please call Stacy x4120 if found. FOUND: BLACK CAT by the law school. Call 283-2637 to claim. WANTED SHENANIGANS is looking for  call x1804 f TICKETS NEED 4 TIX FOR Ml STATE! PLEASE CALL #3803 NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR USC, 2 GA'S FOR NAVYORPAYCASH.CALL TIM, FLANNER HALL, EXT. 1143. HELP ME I NEED MtCH ST. & USC TIX 2 G.A.'S & 4STUDS. CALL NICOLE X2818  I ABSOLUTELY MUST HAVE 2 GA'S FOR SMU!! GRANDPARENTS; PLEASE CALL STEVE X2400 HELP. THE WHOLE FAMILY IS COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED LOTS OF TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN OR ERIK AT 1622 HELP! NEED 2 MICH ST. TIX! $X1308 IF YOU HAVE MICH. ST. TIX TO SELL CALL 1308 NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME WILL PAY$$$$ CALL BILL 271-8483  Have: 2 Mich. St.(30 yard line G.A.) Need: 2 U.S. C. Call Tom #3444 ................TRADE'''''••••••• I need MICHIGAN ST. GA's. If you can help me out, please call Nelson at x3278. Need STU Tx for Mich St Will buy or trade Pitt Call Maureen 2674 NEED 4 NAVY GAs X3500-WATTS HEY NOW! HAVES: 3 Michigan State GA's NEEDS: USC GA's or student tix call Dan at 233-8574 to trade  CA LAWYER NEEDS USC GA'SIII PLEASE CALL AMBER x2529111111 I need 3 USC GA's-call Jahnelle x2979 I have two(2) Michigan State GA's for sale ...will sell or trade for MIAMI or Pitt GA's ... Call JeH soon..x3555 HELPI!!II I NEED 4 USC GA's for my family I Please call Bryan at 2265. Help!!!!! I need a student or GA for USC for my brother.Piease call Steve-2285  have stud tix (2, sec 30) for all home games x3202 I NEED AS MANY TICKETS TO USC AS YOU CAN GIVE ME ! STUDENTS OR GA'S. I WILL PAY GOOD $$$.CALL BOB AT x2313. I NEED 3 GAS (PREFERABLY TOGETHER) FOR ANY HOME GAME. CALL KAREN @ 284· 4173. I need 2 MSU GAs & 1 stud. WILL PAY BIG$$$ Call Shannon at 284-5244.  
spirited bass, piano, sax, and horn players. Interested? call Walter@ 271-0756.  NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA OR STUDENT BADLY . WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL ERICH AT X1622.  NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH ST. HAVE PITT & BIG$$ CALL JIM X1653 HELP EDUCATE MY  MICHIGAN ST. TICKETS I need student ticket(s) for Saturday's game. Please help! Call Monica 283-4823  WANTED TWO USC AND TWO  WANTED: USC vs. .NO TICKETS  
V-Tapes all1988-89 N.D. football games. Please call Paul Roy 232­7602  TRADE 2 MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS FOR 2 USC TICKETS CALL X2766  CULTURALLY REPRESSED RELATIVES FROM WYOMING BY SELLING ME 2 GA'S TO MICH ST. X1859  NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVY!!!!! PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 !!!  AIR FORCE GA's WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL MIKE AT 2508.  24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home 1213\422-2812  

l 
I

Wednesday, September 20, 1989 The Observer page 11 
IN DIRE NEED OF 4 MICHIGAN I NEED MSU TIXS. GA'S AND TRANSVESTITE DANCERS Mike F will loose!! JUDOGI STATE STUDENT TICKETS!!! STUD. PLEASE CALL ROB AT come see the BOOM BOOM He is nothing!! FOR SALE
Class PLEASE CALL JOE @ 1849 X1617. GIRLS at the DILLON PEP RALLY The true god will rise up and Size 3. Call Laura, x3887. 
continued 
BELIEVE IT OR NOT ... desparately seeking 3 SMU tickets. It's my family's last chance to catch an ND game before I graduate. Come on, they lost to Rice! I'll even pay you for them. $$$$$Julie x4419 
PARENTS ARE COMING! NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITT! CALL TIM 4043 
Save dad's job! Boss and family need 2-4 USC GA or stdnt tix. PLEASE call Pete at X1699-l'd like to stay at ND.$$ 
TICKETS FOR SALE: 
1 stud. USC and 1 stud. PITT 
Best Offer So Call Now! 
Cynthia x1282 
My life will end if I can't get Mich. St. tix. will pay top price x1791 
Desperate! Will give my first born or any$ for 2 USC GAs Chris B #1484 
HELP! Need 4 Pitt GAs for my 
family Call Chad x1132 
NEED 4 MSU GA'S-CALL MIKE 
AND TOM at 1694. 
NEED 2 GA's FOR prrr or NAVY Please Call Vin x-2015 
HELP!!!!! 
I NEED ONE USC GA FOR DAD 
I'LL PAY BIG BUCS!!!! 
CALL CHRIS AT X4050 
CALL ANYTIME!!!!! 
Need one stu. ticket for USC. 
Call Mike at #3205. 
WANTED: TWO MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS FOR TWO ND GRADS. LETS MAKE A DEAL! CALL AMY AT 2640. 
DO YOU REALLY THINK WE STAND A CHANCE AGAINST MSU ? ME NEITHER, BUT MY SISTER AND HER BOYFRIEND BEG TO DIFFER. HELP ME OUT WITH 2 GA OR STU. TIX. CALL JOHN AT X 1684. 
Tickets For Sale: 1 stud. USC and 1 stud. Pitt Best Offer Call Now! Katie x1281 
Need 4 GA's for SMU: parents are coming. Please help. Call Brittany 3821! 
I NEED 2 PITT GA'S (FOR MY PARENTS) II! CALL CARYN 4830. 
NEED 4 PITT GA'S CALL DAVE 283-1417 
$$$$$$$$$$$$ 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD. NEEDED FOR MICH ST. GAME. CALL MATT X4280 $$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE-JAMES X1860 
TICKETS .......................... TICKETS I AM SELLING TICKETS TO ALL HOME GAMES. CALL JOHN MAC. AT 271-8309. 
FOR SALE MICH STATE GA'S -BEST OFFER CALL 277-1878 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR SMU. WILL PAY GOOD$$$$$! CALL STEVE AT X4289 
I NEED MICH ST TIX WILL PAY$ or TRADE USC I PITT! #1 023 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH. ST. WILL PAY GOOD$$. BRAD X3507 
SEX 
NEEDED & 3 MICH ST, STUDENT CALL MARK 271-8860 
NEED LOTS OF TICKETS FOR MSU-STUD. & GA. CALL 1644 
ELVIS IS DEAD and so am I if I can't find 3 GA tickets to the Pitt game. 317-743-7208. 
Help! Need 3 GA tickets to Pitt game. 317-743-7208. 
$$$$ Free Beer !! Free Beer$$$$ 
You can come to my tailgater and get it if you sell me 3 USC GA's or Student tickets for my desperate parents and wonderful brother!!! Please call Cathi or Kelly at "4985 $$Free Beer$$$ I WANTED TO GO TO THE MICHIGAN ST. GAME THIS WEEKEND, BUT I'M BEING FORCED TO GO TO A!#$%@'&"! WEDDING. IF YOU WANT TO BUY 

MY STUDENT TICKET CALL 287­4546. 
Money. It's hard to live without it. 
We could make your life a little 
easier. We need Michigan State 
student or GA tickets. Call Molly 
or Andi at 3885. 

NEED 1 MSU GA for Grandma!!! 
call Dan x1801. 

Need TIXX to any home football 
game.Big $$$.Call John X1583 
WANTED: USC vs. .NO TICKETS 
24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home 1213).422-2812 
PERSONALS 
DILLON PEP RALLY!! 
DILLON PEP RALLY!! 
THURSDAY 7:30 
BE THERE!! 

** *** *** ** ••••• *"' ...................... . TAKE A LOAD OFF! Rent a locker in LaFortune--only $5 per year. For details stop at the Information Desk, LaFortune. 
VALUE CHECK COUPON BOOKS are still available. If you have not picked your book up, or wish to buy a book, stop by the LaFortune Information Desk. Weekdays 9am­9pm, Weekends Noon-9pm. 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
GOT A GREAT IDEA? 
SEND AN ARTICLE TO 
COMMON SENSE 
P.O. BOX957 

NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
DEADLINE: SEPT 30. 
come see: TONY RICE 
DEAN BROWN 
DON GRIMM 
at the DILLON PEP RALLY!! 

PICNIC For ALL students who have transferred to N.D. over the LAST 3 YRS. Sept. 21 at 6:00 Holy Cross Field 
Can we buy your 
couch/sofa/chair? 
Please call x3442. 
FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENTS College preferred no experience necessary. For application information call (219) 757-5757 Ext. C-313 8 am-8 pm, 7 days. 
CONGRATS TO THE IRISH OFFENSIVE LINE GREAT JOBII! 
TRANSFERS-OLD AND NEW 
PICNIC-HOLY CROSS FIELD 
THURS 9/21 6PM-COME SHARE 
YOUR TRANSFER 'HELL STORIES! 
HELP! I need your Michigan St. tickets. Call Tina at x4840 
Thank you St. Jude, pray for me-J 
Take ride into Chicago on Saturdays. Ride the WINDY CITY 
SHUTTLE. Tickets $10-available 
at the Information Desk, 
LaFortune or call 239-7442 for 
more information. 
Model United Nations will have 
a very important meeting tonight 
at 7pm , at 220 Hayes-Healey. 
All members should attend, and 
new members are welcome!! 
DO YOU HAVE A PILOT'S 
CERTIFICATE OR WISH TO 
BECOME A STUDENT OR 
PRIVATE PILOT? CALL MIKE 
2215. 
UN-HI YA MOLLY !!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 
IF I DO SAY SO MY DAMN SELF 
I LOVE YA AWFUL!!!!!!!! 
THANKS FOR ALL YOU DO 
LOVE ALWAYS------PJ conquerhim!! 

I love you, Annie. crs 
Dorm reps for RECYCLIN' IRISH 2nite-Dooley room-Lafortune 7pm 
Hi Ag 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table·, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 
Do you have a pilot's certificate or wish to become a student or private pilot?lntersested in starting a flying club? Call Mike x2215 
ROUND TRIP TICKET S. BEND TO DENVER FOR FALL BREAK FOR SALE AMY X3717 
TOMMY-I LOVE YOU! Y.L.P. 
SENIOR FORMAL 
If interested in planning Senior Formal 1990, fill out an interest sheet in the Office of Student Activities by Weds. 9/20. 
A COMPUTER? COME SEE THE IBM PERSONAL SYSTEM 2 FAMILY OF COMPUTERS. THERE WILL BE A DEMONSTRATION ON WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 20, IN MONTGOMERY THEATRE FROM 
7:00 to 9:00pm. ALL ARE INVITED TO ATTEND. 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple in Midwest wishes to adopt newborn. We offer stable and happy home, financial security, welcoming extended family. PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 after 6:30pm weekdays, anytime weekends.Attorney involved. 
HELPI NEED 1 MSU STUD. OR GA. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE PITT & BIG BUCKS! CALL LIZ X2798 
HEY TRACY BURKE, HOPE YOU ARE STILL ALIVE AT THE END OF THIS ONE. 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! 
TRACY 8 , LETS USE A TOILET THIS TIME RATHER THAN THE BUSHES. AND USE TOILET PAPER TOO PLEASE THE POST OFFICE WASN'T TOO HAPPY THE LAST TIME. 
KEEP IT A SOBER 21ST YOU SLOPPY DRUNK! 
SPACY BURKE, GET A JOB FOR 
A FOREIGN COMPANY NEXT 
YEAR SO THAT PEOPLE WILL 
BUY AMERICAN AGAIN. 
!HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! 
LOVE, THE WALKING WOUNDED 
OF KENTUCKY AND FRIENDS. 
Ruth, Congrats on making your 
first hole-in-one! Wanna 
tryfortwo? 
The Ace 
Novena to St. Jude 
0 holy St. Jude, apostle and 
martyr, near kinsman of Jesus 
Christ . Faithful intercessor of all 
who invoke your special 
patronage in time of need. To you 
I have recourse and from the 
depth of my heart, I humbly beg 
whom God has given such power 
to come to my assistance. Help 
me in my urgent petition ...ln 
return, 
I promise to make your name 
known and your cause to be 
invoked. Say:3 Our Father's,3 
Hail Marys,3 Glories for 9 
consecutive days. Publication 
must be promised.St. Jude pray 
for us and all who invoke your 
name.This novena has never 
been known to fail. 
Thanks St. Jude 
TO THE COLOR PURPLE ..... . THANKS GUYS, I'M THINKING OF 
YOU. 
LOVE, LIZ 
Mr. Deltoid: Is that clear? Alex: As an unmuddied lake. As clear as an azul sky in the deepest summer. You can count on me. 

All Engineers are invited to_the 





Fitzpatrick Lobby 
Summer Opportunities! Full-time Jobs! 
Bring RESUMES for over 35 companie.s! 
ADWORKS 

-

Sports Wednesday 
Page 12 September 20, 1989 
~----­

BASEBALL 
·l 
Toronto 
Baltimore 
Milwaukee 
Boston 
New York 
Cleveland 
Detroit 
Oakland 
California 
Kansas City 
Texas 
Minnesota 
Seattle Chicago 
Chicago St. Louis New York Montreal Pittsburgh Philadelphia 
San Francisco San Diego Houston Los Angeles Cincinnati Atlanta w L 83 68 82 70 76 74 74 76 68 82 67 84 57 95 
w L 90 60 88 63 86 64 76 73 76 75 66 83 64 86 
w L 85 66 81 70 79 71 78 73 70 80 61 90 
w L 86 64 82 69 81 70 72 78 70 81 59 92 

z-denotes first game was a win 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Monday's Games Oakland 4, Cleveland 2, 10 innings Boston 6, Toronto 3 California 6, Minnesota 3 Chicago 4, Kansas City 2 Texas 5, Seattle 2 Only games scheduled 
Tuesday's Games 
Late Games Not Included Milwaukee at New York, ppd., rain Baltimore 6, Detroit 2 Oakland 5, Cleveland 1 California 7, Minnesota 3 Boston at Toronto, (late) Chicago at Kansas City, (late) Seattle at Texas. (late) 
Wednesday's Games 
-
Milwaukee at New York Detroit at Baltimore Oakland at Cleveland Boston at Toronto California at Minnesota Chicago at Kansas City Seattle at Texas 
Thursday's Games California at CIE!veland Oakland at Minnesota Seattle at Texas Only games scheduled 
American League 
East Division 
Pet  GB  L10  
.550  5-5  
.539  11/2  5-5  
.507  61/2  z-8-2  
.493  81/2  4-6  
.453  141/2  z-4-6  
.444  16  2-8  
.375  261/2  z-4-6  
West Division  
Pet  GB  L10  
.600  5-5  
.583  21/2  z-8-2  
.573  4  z-5-5  
.510  131/2  z-5-5  
.503  141/2  z-6-4  
.443  231/2  5-5  
.427  26  z-6-4  

National League 
East Division Pet GB L10 .563 z-7-3 .536 4 4-6 .527 51/2 4-6 .517 7 z-3-7 .467 14 1/2 z-9-1 .404 24 z-4-6 
West Division 
Pet .573 .543 .536 .480 
.464 
.391 
GB L10 
5-5 41/2 z-7-3 51/2 z-6-4 14 6-4 161/2 1-9 271/2 z-4-6 

Streak  Home  Away  
Lost  1  43-33  40-35  
Won  1  45-32  37-38  
Lost  1  42-33  34-41  
Won  4  41-33  33-43  
Lost  1  38-38  30-44  
Lost  5  37-39  30-45  
Lost  1  37-38  20-57  
Streak  Home  Away  
Won  2  49-25  41-351t  
Won  3  50-25  38-38  
Lost  1  52-23  34-41  
Won  2  41-34  35-39  
Lost  3  44-32  32-43  
Lost  1  36-39  30-44  
Won  1  32-42  32-44  
Streak  Home  Away  
Lost  1  44-32  41-34  
Won  3  41-32  40-38  
Won  1  48-27  31-44  
Lost  2  43-35  35-38  
Won  4  35-37  35-43  
Lost  3  35-42  26-48  
Streak  Home  Away  
Lost  1  48-27  38-37  
Won  2  43-32  39-37  
Lost  1  46-33  35-37  
Won  3  40-35  32-43  
Lost  8  37-39  33-42  
Won  1  31-42  28-50  

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Monday's Games Pittsburgh 6, Philadelphia 2 Chicago 10, New York 6 St. Louis 3, Montreal 2 Only games scheduled 
Tuesday's Games 

Late Game Not Included New York 5, Chicago 2 St. Louis 5, Montreal 0 Pittsburgh 4, Philadelphia 2 San Diego 5, Cincinnati 1 Atlanta 3, Houston 0 Los Angeles at San Francisco, (late) 
Wednesday's Games Philadelphia at Chicago Montreal at Pittsburgh San Diego at Cincinnati Houston at Atlanta New York at St. Louis Los Angeles at San Francisco 
Thursday's Games San Diego at Cincinnati Philadelphia at Chicago Houston at Atlanta Montreal at Pittsburgh New York at St. Louis Los Angeles at San Francisco 
SCOREBOARD SPORTS LIST 
Results for Sept 13-Sept-20 
Football (2-0) 

Hollywood Sports
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 19 

Sports most often the subject of American Fil
Volleyball (1-6) Western Michigan def. Notre Dame, 8­15,6-15,15-5,15-9,11-15. 
1.Boxing
Pittsburgh def. Notre Dame, 7-15, 3­15, 5-15. 
179 films 
Pacificdef. Notre Dame, 7-15,5-15,7­
2.Horse racing 
15. 

118films
Soccer 
Men's (3-2) 

3.American football 
Notre Dame 3, Detroit 1 

103 films 
Notre Dame 1 , Marquette 0 Notre Dame at Loyola (late) 

4.Motor racing 
Women's 

82 films 
Minnesota 1, Notre Dame 0  
Notre Dame vs. IUSB, rescheduled  
Cross Country  
Men's (1-0)  
Notre Dame 22, Georgetown 33  
Women's (0-1)  
Georgetown 17, Notre Dame 46  
Women's golf  
Notre Dame placed 1Oth out of a 20­ 
team  field  at  the  Illinois  State  
Invitational with a score of 684.  
SPORTS CALENDAR  NL LEADERS  
Home game in CAPS  
Wednesday  
Men's soccer at Loyala, 4 p.m.  
Thursday Women's golf at Lady Invitational  Greyhound  TGwynn SO WCiarkSF LSmith Atl  
Grace Chi  
Friday Men's soccer vs. MICHIGAN STATE, 7:30p.m. Volleyball at LSU Tournament  Guerrero StL Walton Chi Oquendo StL KMitchell SF MThmpsn StL  
Saturday  Raines Mon  
Football vs. MICHIGAN STATE  AL LEADERS  
Volleyball at LSU Tournament  
Sunday  
Men's soccer vs. MARQUETTE, 1 p.m.  
Monday  Puckett Min  
Men's golf at  Indiana Intercollegiate  Lansford Oak  
Meet  Boggs Bsn  
ADavis Sea  
Tuesday  Baines Tex  
No sports scheduled.  Sax NY  
Yount Mil  
Sept. 27  Franco Tex  
Volleyball vs. PURDUE, 7:30p.m.  Greenwell Bsn  
Browne Cle  

G 147 150 126 130 149 112 150 142 142 134 
G 147 135 145 128 136 147 148 146 
132 140 The Observer I Laura Stanton 
BASEBALL'S TOP TEN 
Based on 428 at Bats. NATIONAL LEAGUE AB R H Pet. 563 79 191 .339 556 101 188 .338 458 !D 144 .314 469 ffi 146 .311 527 !'£ 164 .311 462 63 137 .297 514 !'£ 151 .294 500 w 146 .292 497 'S1 145 .292 476 73 139 .292 
BASEBALL'S TOP TEN 
Based on 428 at Bats. AMERICAN LEAGUE AB R H Pet. 585 71 198 .338 504 71 170 .337 572 00 187 .327 450 78 143 .318 472 73 150 .318 606 !D 191 .315 571 ~ 180 .315 538 78 169 .314 529 81 165 .312 548 74 169 .308 


TRACY BURKE, 
only you would


NOT DEBATE MEETING~ 
celebrate your 21st with such style!

WEDNESDAY SEPT. 20 8-9 P.M. 
l}{]~~~w ~~ ®~ 


DOOLEY ROOM OF LAFORTUNE 

~~ [R11JI}{] [Q)~w~ 
Love, The Joker & his trusty Sidekicks

ALL STUDENTS WELCOME 
(Mike, Bryan, Ben & Steve'.

Researchers and Debaters 






showing Tonight and Tomorrow Night at 9:00 and11:15 in Carroll Auditorium SMC $ 1.00 Admission 
Coming soon Fall Fest : including a Picnic, Caricatures, Twister, The ? Gardens, and "Rain Man " I I 


All activities sponsored by Student Activities Board 
-----~---------------------,l 
I I 

Wednesday, September 20, 1989 The Observer 
throwing error helped the Chili Davis hit a three-run

Pennant 
Chicago White Sox rally for homer as California won for 
three runs in the ninth inning the eighth time in 11 games and
continued from page 16 
and beat Kansas City, dropping kept pace with first-placeRed Sox 6, Blue Jays 3 the Royals 3 1/2 games back in Oakland. The Twins were The Boston Red Sox, unable the American League West. mathematically eliminated from 
to defeat Toronto at home Kansas City fell farther be­the race. since 1987, beat the first-place hind first-place Oakland, which Blue Jays as Nick Esasky beat Cleveland 4-2 in 10 in­Rangers 5, Mariners 2 homered during a five-run third nings. California won and Fred Manrique's tiebreaking, 
inning. stayed in second place, 2 1/2 two-run double in the eighth 
Toronto had its three-game games back. inning sent the Texas Rangers winning streak stopped and its over the Seattle Mariners. lead in the American League Angels 6, Twins 3 East cut to two games over Bert Blyleven pitched eight Texas' Nolan Ryan got a no­Baltimore. The Red Sox won strong innings and the decision, giving up two runs on their fourth straight and pulled California Angels remained 2 three hits in 7 1-3 innings. The to 8 1/2 back. 1/2 games back in the American all-time strikeout leader fanned 
White Sox 4, Royals 2 League West, beating the just two, his lowest total since Reliever Jeff Montgomery's Minnesota Twins. Aug. 15, 1988. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
~=~~·::·~~~:;~~~:~~==:·~~;~··~:~·~p 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura,we do expect to see you danc1ng 

LaFortune.




ll II
on pool tables tomght 


page 13 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Sailing Club will give lessons today at the boathouse for all interested members. Bring a check for dues. 
Rugby Club will have its first home game at 2 p.m. Sunday, Sept. 24, at Stepan Field against Bowling Green. 
Squash Club will hold clinics beginning at 7 p.m. tonight in court 1 of the Joyce ACC. Call x2862 for more informa­tion. 
Non-Varsity Athletics needs officials for soccer and women's football. Applications are available at the NVA of­fice. Call 239-6100 for more information. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at the Observer of­fice from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. 

Where can Morgan's Audit-Plus ll-aining Program lead you? 
Each year we hire a small team leading corporations and finance, economics, or other 
J.P Morgan & Co. Incorpo­of college graduates to partici­governments. Our business business subjects should have rated, 23 Wall Street, New 
pate in a unique management requires specialized support at least two courses in account­York, NY 10015. 
training program. Our pro­in areas such as risk analysis, ing for the general manage­
gram, Audit-Plus, offers a control evaluation, accounting ment path and four courses for 
career path in either financial policies, and taxation. As an the financial management path. 
or general management at Audit-Plus trainee, your role Please plan to attend our 
J.P. Morgan. will be vital in providing this upcoming information session. 
Career
J.P. Morgan develops and essential management support. Watch for the time and location 

Opportunities
executes complex financial To qualify, graduates with on campus. Or contactJudith transactions for the world's concentrations in accounting, Lmnin, Financial Recruiting, at Morgan 
© 1989 J.P. M....,. 1 Co. l"""'l""*d. J,P. Morpn Kkntif-tlw-MH'IdwMk-b111ine. and len'ices of 
J.P. Morpn a: Co., lncorponted, Morpn Guaranty Trull Company, J.P. Morpn Set::uritiee Inc., and otherJ.P. Morgan 
.uh.idiariel. 



JPMorgan 
-


page 14 The Observer Wednesday, September 20, 1989 

Rugby team loses, ties Wolverines 
The weekend in Ann Arbor was a huge success "We're looking forward to playing them," for the football team and the students who commented Smiggen. " Before last year they'd roadtripped to the game. For the Rugby Club, been to the nationals two years in a row." though, the weekend wasn't as good as they had After last weekend's 8th place finish in the 14 hoped. The A side finished in a 10-10 tie with team Irish Invitational, the key word for the the Wolverines while the B side lost 18-12. Sailing Club this weekend was improvement. Michigan was supposed to put up three sides The Irish took great strides to becoming a force against the Irish, but they could only manage on the water with a 3rd place finish in the Davis two teams. Cup Regatta at the University of Iowa and a 2nd 
overall finish at the Forrester Memorial Regatta 
at Lake Forest College (north of Chicago). 
At the Iowa regatta, the Irish finished behind 

Mike Kamradt Purdue and Western Michigan. The Irish beat 
out Wisconsin for 4th place and also placed
Club Corner 
ahead of Michigan (what else will we beat them in?) , Iowa State, and Illinois Wesleyan. 
The A game started out promising for Notre The A team, which finished 2nd overall, was Dame, but didn't end that way. skippered by Paige Cooper and had Tom 
"We were disappointed in the quality of their Wiltberger for the crew. team," said club president and A side starter "I really hoped we 'd do well and I was excited Mike Smiggen. "We put some big hits on them we did as well as we did," said Cooper. early and we intimidated them." The B team, skippered by Lisa Fox and 
Bob McGuire scored the first four point try crewed by Moira Sullivan, finished 4th in the early in the mateh. An omen of bad things to two day event. After four races on Saturday, come happened ten minutes into the match when Notre Dame was 4th overall. starter Mike Smiggen was hurt and taken to the "Saturday was a tough day to sail because hospital. Later in the half Vic "IIardo" Pisani there was light air." observed Cooper. Sunday hulled his way for a four point score. Shaun proved to be a better day as the sunny skies of McNamarra added the two point conversion Saturday were accompanied by better winds. kiek to make the score 10-0. The Irish did well enough in the 5 races to im­
The score was the same as the seeond 40 prove to a 3rd place overall finish and take minute half got under way, but things soon home a trophy. turnf1d against the Irish. The main blow was de­Notre Dame also sent two teams to the re­livered not by the Wolverine attack, but by in­gatta at Lake Forest. Notre Dame brought juries. home a 2nd place finish after being edged out by 
"We lost three more starters to injury. Wisconsin by 3 points. The Irish finished ahead Without these key positions we didn't have the of Marquette, Lake Forest and Wabash. Skipper team we thought we needed to compete with Watts Hudgens and crew Kathleen Hallorhan them," said Smiggen. brought home a first place in the A division. 
A few penalties swung the momentum in Margie Meagher (skipper) and Chris Knapp Miehigan's favor and the Wolverines were able (crew) finished 3rd overall in the B division. to scratch for the tie. 
The B side lost a hard fought battle 18-12. "We expected to do well," said Hudgens. "This Since Michigan couldn't put up a C side, Notre was the first regatta that Lake Forest has had Dame played its B side in the first half and the C and it wasn't as big as the regatta at Iowa. " in the second. Smiggen was pleased with the The Sailing club will hope to continue its suc­second game. cess this weekend as they host Michigan and 
"It was a good experience for our guys es­Western Michigan in preparation for their next pecially because it was the first action in a real big regatta at Michigan on October 1. Hudgens game for a lot of them. They just out-experi­thinks that the past weekend will be important enced us." to the future success of the Sailing Club. 
Mike O'Connell scored for the B side in the "We're getting people with experience in first half. racing and that will be a key in the future." 
The Rugby Club will have its first home match The Crew Team will have its Alumni row this of the year this Sunday at Stepan Field at 2 p.m. Saturday. The first big regatta of the year will The Irish will send three sides against top five be the Head of the Ohio on Saturday, September rated Bowling Green. 30th in Pittsburgh. 
WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812 
NO TICKETS NEEDED 
.AU. 
Games 

Call TODAY for immediate CASH 
1-800-828-8955 
Peterson & Co. Consulting Get ready for the
A GROWING NATIONAL CONSULTING FIRM 
helping solve business problems 


home opener 
• 
Accounting 

• 
Finance 


MBAs 


JOIN US FOR AN INFORMATIONAL PRESENTATION Friday-No Lunch 
Thursday, September 21 
6:00p.m. 
at the University Club 

refreshments immediately following presentation 

!!~~!.ge" 
gain 99 yards on 16 rushes. 
It's the physical strength of Michigan State that impresses Holtz. 
"I don't know of any team that's so strong year in and year out," said Holtz. "We know they'll control the line of 
scrimmage."  
The Notre  Dame  lines  may  
have  something  to  say about  

that. Notre Dame has a couple of 
•••••••M _.. -··•••••••••••••1 

i KILCILEA i 
I Q L 0 S • N I S S A N ~ Jefferson Blvd. I 
: Celebrating our 1Oth Year Anniversary I i, : I 1979-1989 ! MlshawakiAve. -I 
I LUBE & OIL I I CHANGE I
I I I KILLILEA I
I $9. 9 5 1 ll!IIXN I I ~~ I
I MOST DOMESTIC & FOREIGN CARS I I DIESEL EXCLUDED I 
VALID ANYTIME II CALL FOR AI'I'OINTMFNT I 2102 Lincolnway. West· M1shawa~.1. IN 46544 • 2'>5-!l€-44 I 
Backs 
continued from page 16 
trampled for a total of 146 
yards on 38 carries for a 3.8 
average, including 80 yards on 
20 carries against the much 
heralded Michigan defensive 
line. Not only is Johnson the 
Irish leading ground gainer but 
he is once again resuming the 
role of the go-to man on the 
goaline situations. Johnson has 
plowed over the touchdown line 
twice this season and is on the 
track to lead the Irish in touch­
downs for the second straight 
season. Last year, Johnson 
plunged in 11 touchdowns, four 
more than any other Irish 
player. But Johnson's duties do 
not end on the field. 
"No doubt, he is the guy who 
everyone looks to because he 
has been in all the big games, " 
gleamed Strong. "lie is the 
spokesman of the group. He is 
a very mature person on and 
off the field." 
There is little question about Johnson's importance to the 1989 squad. But what would happen if Johnson could not fulfill his duties? Coming into the season, the Irish coaching staff was looking to junior Ryan Mihalko to fill the second team slot upon hearing that Braxston Banks was not physi­cally fit to play. However, the 6­2, 234 pound New Hampshire native has not quite nailed 
rl) 
winning streaks on the line Saturday. Dating back to last year, the Irish have won 14 consecutive games for the sixth-longest winning string in school history. The record is a 21-game streak from 1946 to 1948. 
The Irish also have won 12 home games in a row. The last time they lost at Notre Dame Stadium was a 24-19 decision to eventual national champion Penn State in the last home game of the 1986 season. Notre Dame has a 15-3 home record during the Holtz tenure. 
down the slot. In fact he has 
now is rotating guys. said 
only carried two games.  the  ball  once  in  
"What  we  are  doing  "  right  

Strong. "You could say that the seareh is still on. Mihalko is running some second team but we tried Heggie Brooks and 
Busty Setzer today at fullbaek. We are still looking for the right chemistry. someone to be productive. Nobody has eome to the forp,front as of yet and said 'this is my job, this is my position."' 
At the tailback position, Strong is faced with a pleasur­able dilemma. Strong has the privilege to call on the elusive Hieky Watters or the more physical Hodney Culver to fill the slot vaeated by the talented Mark Green. At this point in the season, Watters is first on the Irish depth chart and de­servedly so. In the Virginia game, the Harrisburg Pa. na­tive scampered for 80 yards on only 12 earries while scoring one touchdown. As for Culver, the hard-nose tailback has rumbled for 82 yards on 16 earries against the Irish's two opponents. Although Watters and Culver may battle for the starting spot the entire year, they will undoubtedly combine to provide the consistency and dependability that Strong is longing for. 

·------------------------­
Membership does have its privileges 

Wednesday-Discuss foreign policy with your favorite foreigners 9-2 Thursday-Club Cup Nite 9-2 
The Post Pep Rally Place 9-2 Saturday-Open a half hour after the game til 2 a.m. Celebrate the victory right Live Band-Bad Apple 
r 
I I I 
-
-~----~-~---------­
Wednesday, September 20, 1989 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
12:15 p.m. Women Exploring Beauty lecture, "The Sins of the Cornishmen: Poems, Stones & Other Objects," by Sonia Gernes, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
4:20 p.m. "The Be Superscript Plus Atomic Clock: A Test of Non-Linear Quantum Mechanics," by John Bollinger, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4:30 p.m. AT&T Visiting Scholar Series presents Alfred Doppler from the University of lnnsbruck on the Austrian novelist Hobert Musil. Lecture is in German. Room 202 Center for Continuing Education. 
8 p.m. "Appropriate Responses of Government Officials to Wrongful War," by Daniel Ellsberg, Washington Hall. 




'e•o• 
Don't feel lost 
.

1n space... 

join The Observer and help make a difference in your world! 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
... SO MO£. STOLE M'{ '\'RUCK, AND W\-\£1'1 l \Rit.D TO GET IT 
13ACK., t.\OE Wt>.N\t:D TO Flc;~T 1-A.t. FOR IT. I 1>101'\'t Wt\NT m FIG\-\T, SC l Wt\LK£D AW,.._~ ANI) t#()£ KEPT Mi TR\IC.K.. 
I DOK.'\' UN~R'S\~ND IT, 140BB£S. W\1~\ M~I<E.S 
SOME P£01'\.E. Sc GI<ITD'< 
1\t-\D MEP-1'1? 

ACROSS 
1 No-no 5 "Crucifixion" painter 
9 Morose 13 List entry 14John, in 

Cardigan 15 Ring enclosure 17 Coffee chasers 20 I hope: Lat. 21 Pitched, in 
music 22 Old French coin 23 Pierre's female 
friend 25 Chaste 27 Diaghilev 

presentation 
30 Sound when a batter misses a pitch 
32 In past time 33 "M*A*S*H" role 35 Kauai neighbor 39 Milk chasers 43 " . . -laidthe 
odds "· Hamlet 44 Made a collar 45 Yalie 46 Pasty 49 Be com­punctious 51 Golfer's position 54 Minor preceder 55 Slip 56 Tall or short follower 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.:,:..+.:~+=-! 
~;+:,:.~.;.+:,;.~ ~;:+:;:.~ .::::.+=..:+::+.;.~ 


59 Hang loosely 63 Tea chasers 66 Habitation 67Smell-(be 
suspicious) 68 What a vacationer 

drops 69 Greek love god 70 Carte before the 
course 71 Advantage 
DOWN 

1 Tout's suggestions 2 On the summit 3-noire 4 Like a phantom 5 Cleveland's Ruby 6 Vigilant 7 The Caspian Sea is one aAtramentous 9 A,b,c,d,e,f, e.g. 10 Abraham's nephew 11 Unnerve 12 Birthplace of Mohammed 16 Synagogue 18 Cesar, of flicks 19 Jacob's third son 

24 It borders Aust. 26 Type of steward 27 Scarlatti 
contemporary 28 Turkish title 29 Spoils 30 He smote Job 31 Noted architect 34 Virginia-, 
early American 36 Citizen of U.S. or Can. 
37 He wrote "The Man Without a Country" 
38 Army division 40 Film sleuth 41 Knights' titles 42 An Iroquois 47 Monkey-trial 
figure 48 Olympic queen 50 Throat freshener 51 Bristle 52 Phyle 53 It has couters 
and beavers 54 Indo-European descendant 57 Three scruples, 
e.g 58 To be, in Belley 60 Kind of rock or 
rain 61 Boxlike sleigh 62 Blunt sword 64 Tokyo, formerly 65 Heat meas. 

W\\'( IS IT 1\-lf>.T ~E ~ 
OON.i' CARE W14t>-l's WRON.G f...~I) RIGI-\P W\\i 001-\'\ PE.OP\£ TR'I TO BE N.IC.£ TO Et--(}1 On\ER? ,....,...,~ 

BILL WATTERSON 

T\\E PRoBLEI-\ ~In\ I'£OPLE \5 T\-\~T TI4E'f'Rt ONL~ 1-\\11<\Mt THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"See, Agnes? ... It's just Kevin." 

SUB presents FOREIGN POLICY WEEK 
Wed., Sept. 20th  Thurs., Sept. 21st  
Lecture by Dr. Daniel Ells berg:  Address by David and Marjorie Ransom:  
"Appropriate Responses of  "Making the Dual Career Family Work:  
Government Officials to Unlawful War"  Perspectives from the Foreign Service"  
Washington Hall, 8 p.m.  122 Hayes-Healy  8 p.m.  
Tix on sale at LaFortune Info Desk,  
$2 NO Community, Others $4  

I 
I 

--~ --'-------"--~~---'-------­
" 





Sports
page 16 Wednesday, September 20, 1989 

Taking it on the run 
NO depends on its backs 
By BOB MITCHELL have accounted for 513 of thn Sports Writer (>96 total of'fnnsive yards. in­ducting 213 out of 219 total of­
It was 6:25 p.m. on Cartier fensive yards in the Michigan field and Coach Holtz had just contest. Onn wo1Hinrs if the dismissed the players from Irish backfinld can kenp carry­praetice when offensivn coordi­ing thn ofTtmsive load. nator and backfield eoach Jim "Wlwn you arP a running Strong called the running football team you should be backs over to the side for a productive," said Strong. who small talk. Or that is what it is in his second year at Notre appeared to be. Within minutes Dame. "Our playPrs arP willing all the running barks were to do anything it takPs to win, hurling their bodies at tackling if' it is a running back gaining dummies and landing 11at on I00 yards or laying threP rriti­their stomachs. So mueh for ral blocks. Whatewr our role is the notion that running backs WP must nxncutn." have it easy. At this early stage of thP sna­
"Jinre at Notre Dame. we son tlw lnad executioner stH'IIIS strive that they bceontc better to be tri-captain/f'ullbaek players without thn ball." ex­Anthony Johnson . .Johnson, plained Strong. "We work each rPnownnd for his bulldozing week so that the individual gets running style and quint dP­better and as each player gets meanor on and off the liPid. is better the team gets better." the leading rusher in the Irish 
So far this season. the Notre backfield except for quartnr­Dame backfield has done quite baek Tony Hice. Johnson has well with the ball. In thn first two games the running backs see BACKS/ page 14 
punchless Cincinnati.
Associated Press 
The victory, coupled with Houston's 
CHICAGO -Gary Carter hit his first 3-0 loss to Atlanta, gave San Diego sole home run in five months and Dwight possession of second place. The Padres Gooden earned his first major-league and Astros entered play five games be­save as the New York Mcts kept their hind front-running San Francisco, slim title hopes alive Tuesday with a 5-2 which played Los Angeles in a late victory over the Chicago Cubs. game. 
The victory ended a three-game losing Braves 3, Astros 0 streak and pullt>d the third-place Mets Gary Eave, making his first major­within 5 1/2 games of thf~ first-place league start. outpitched 20-game win­Cubs in the National League East. ncr Mike Scott as Atlanta topped 
Bob Ojeda, 13-10, pitched five innings. Houston, ending the Astros' five-game Gooden. who eanw off the disabled list winning streak. two WPPks ago, pitched the final four. Mets nuumgPr Davey Johnson bnnchcd Pirates 4, Phillies 2 )) a r r y I S t raw b~~ r r y an d K c v i n Jose Lind and Gary Hedus had three McHeynolds for leaving tlw dugout in hits apiece as Pittsburgh won for the tlw ninth inning of Monday night's loss. ninth time in 10 games. KPith Miller replaced Strawberry and Lind had two HBis and Hedus seored hit a solo homnr in the third. two runs in support of Jeff Hobinson, 7­
Cardinals 5, Expos 0 11. Hobinson allowed five hits in five 
Bob Tnwksburv, recalled from tlw mi­innings. Bill Landrum, the fourth nors Sept. 2, pitched a four-hittnr and Pittsburgh pitcher, worked the ninth for singlnd in a run as sm:ond-plaee St. his 24th save. Louis movnd within four gamns of Chkago. A's 4, Indians 2 
The Cardinals have 11 games left. in­Dave Stewart must be wondering duding three with the Cubs in St. Louis what it's going to take to win one more to finish the season. The fourth-plaee game. So is Dennis Eckersley. Expos rpmained seven games behind For the second straight time, Chieago. Eckersley blew a chance in the ninth in­
Padres 5, Reds 1 ning for Stewart's 20th vietory of the 
Bookie Andy Benes won his fifth season and 1OOth of his career. Leftfielder Jim Eisenreich of the Kansas City Royals makes a catch as Kurt Stillwell and straight decision as surging San Diego Willie Wilson look on.The Royals are still alive in the American League West, but lost helped its cause in the West by beating see PENNANT/ page 13 ground as they lost to the White Sox 4-2. 

, 
He's no dummy: Perles won't kick to Rocket 
Michigan Statn football coach George Perles has a pretty good id1~a about his kickoff strategy for this wnnkPnd. 
After watehing Notre Dame's Haghib "Rocknt" Ismail scorn two touchdown returns in last Saturday's 24-19 Irish win over Michigan, the Spartan roach has all but made up his mind. 
"Tiw question arises, 'Arc you going to kick it off to Hockct Ismail'!' Of eourst~ I'm not," said l'nrlcs. ''I've sPnn ~~nough from that last ganw." 
Pnrles did agree with Michigan coach Bo Schernbnehler's decision to kick it off to Ismail again in the seeond half after the Wolverinfls had cut Notm Damn's lead to 17-13. 
Ismail rntunwd the ensuing kickoff 92 yards for anothPr Irish score, and Schcrnbechler has bflnn critirizPd for not calling a squib kick in that in­stance. 
"If you ask me would I havP kicked it to him (lsmaill again lik1~ Bo did, I probably would have," said PNlns. "I wouldn't think he had a magic wand and could do it evnry time." 
lloltz used Tunsday's prnss conf1~nmce as an op-
Steve Megargee Irish Items 

portunity to praisfl the entire kickoff rnturn team, which also includes Pat Eilers, Frank Jacobs, Anthony Johnson, Eric Jones, Scott K·owalkowski, Hyan Mihalko, Stan Smagala, Michael Smalls, Irv Smith and Shawn Smith. 
"They really take pride in what they do." said Holtz, "and if you have an outstanding returner, the rest of the football players arn anxious to block bn­cause they know there's a chance something good will happen," 
The Notre Dame-Michigan State contest will mark the homecoming of Jeff Pearson, the former Irish offensivn guard who transferrnd to the East Lansing campus. 
Pearson started as a sophomore in 19H7 on a se-­nior-dominated offensive line that helped lead the 
Irish to an H-4 record and Cotton Bowl appearann•. 
He left for Michigan State the 1wxt year. citing per­
sonal reasons. 
"Thern were two seniors on the second team that 
year, but he started for us," said Irish eoaeh Lou 
Holtz. "I think that says it enough. wlwn you start 
on a team that goes to the Cotton Bowl with four 
seniors on the line." 
Forced to sit out thn 19HH season as a transfer. 

Pearson has moved to enntnr at Michigan State. 
Perles calls thn 6-foot-3. 265-pound junior thP 
strongest playnr on his team. Aecording to PerlPs, 
Pearson ean bnnch-press up to 500 pounds. 
Michigan State eonws into this Wl~ekend as some­

thing of a mystery team. It's tough to rate a squad 
when its only game has eonw against a tPam as 
weak as Miami of Ohio. 
The Spartans' statistics certainly looked impres­sive in their 49-0 season-opening win. Starting tail­back Blake Ezor gained 130 yards on I H carries, and reserve Scott Selzer came off the sidelines to 
see ITEMS I page 14 






