VOL. XXIII NO. 49 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
E. Germany frees citizens 
Berlin Wall opened 
BERLIN (API -East Germany opened the 
Berlin Wall and its other borders Thursday, and 
its cheering citizens crossed freely to the West 
for the first time since 1961. Hundreds of people 
danced on the wall. 
Late Thursday and early Friday, exultant East 
Germans coursed through Berlin Wall check­
points and others entered West Germany at 
other border crossings. 
Near Brandenburg Gate, East Germans raced 
through streams of police water cannon and 
were pulled up the wall by the young West Ger­
mans atop it. Some Germans used hammers to 
chip away at the barrier for keepsakes or in 
their own small way try to destroy the infamous 
symbol of East-West division. 
The sight of jubilant people prancing and 
dancing atop the wall, so heavily guarded for 
years. had been unthinkable only hours earlier. 
About 100 East Berliners at the Brandenburg 
Gate chanted: "Open the gate! Open the gate!" 
llundreds of West Berliners took advantage of 
the newly opened borders during the carnival­
like atmosphere to head in the opposite direc­
tion and catch a glimpse of the other side of the 
divided city. 
"What joy! This is the best thing that hap­
p(med in 100 years!" yelled a West Berlin man 
as he crossed into what had once been forbidden 
tf~rritory. 
II undreds were seen on the Friedrichstrasse 
subway in West Berlin, and East Germans also 
were allowed for the first time at Checkpoint 
Charlie. the famed Friedrichstrasse crossing run 
by the Allied military. 
Many hugged and kissed strangers, while cars 
packed with East Germans and others paraded 
down the streets of West Berlin. 
"It's crazy! It's crazy!" shouted one young 
man as he sat in the back seat of a car with his 
parents after a brief trip past the once-impene­
trable Berlin Wall. 
see THE WALL I page 8 


Church's beauty is restored 
By SARAH VOIGT 
News Writer 
The restoration of the price­less stained glass windows and painted frescoes in Sacred Heart Church is slated to be completed by the reopening of the church· in September 1990, according to Physical Plant Di­rector Donald Dedrick. 
The renovations of the art­work in the church are part of the last phase of a wide-scale seven million dollar improve­ment plan that began in 1986 with the slate roof replacement. 
An anonymous donor supplied a substantial portion of the funds for this project which is among the objectives of the University's $300 million "Strategic Moment" develop­ment campaign, said Michael Garvey, assistant director of Public Relations and Informa­tion. 
Conrad Schmitt Studios of Berlin, Wis. were contracted to restore the 11 7 year-old Sacred Heart to its 1871 condition as authentically as possible, said Dedrick. 
The installation of a safety sprinkler system, an air condi­tioning system and a new elec­trical system that will better il­luminate the frescoes on the ceiling have all been completed, stated Dedrick. 
Currently, workers from Con­rad Schmitt Studios are remov­
see CHURCH I page 4 

Individual behavior key to preventing spread of AIDS 
SMC receives AIDS education 
By CHRISTINE GILL 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Lori Jacob, chairperson of the AIDS Task Force of St. Joseph County, addressed Saint Mary's College faculty, staff 
• SMC AIDS Policy I page 3 
and administration in a pro­gram on basic AIDS informa­tion Thursday. 
Jacob spoke to a small group on the transmission, symptoms and definitions of AIDS and the HIV virus. She is also the direc-


Saint Mary's Wellness Com­mittee, established this fall, notified faculty and staff of the national event and encouraged their participation. 
The video-teleconference's objective is "to bring together staff from all departments to discuss issues and policies that relate to the growing AIDS cri­sis among college youth," ac­cording to a memo from the Wellness Committee. The video­teleconference is scheduled for Nov. 16. 
see SMC/ AIDS I page 9 


By KAREN NEWLOVE 
News Writer 
There is no cure and no vac­cine for Acquired Immune Defi­ciency Syndrome (AIDS); only through personal behavioral changes can an individual pre­vent the spreading of the virus. 
AIDS is becoming one of the greatest public health concerns for the 1990s and beyond. 
Currently there are 110,000 individuals with confirmed rases of AIDS in the United States. It is estimated that over one million individuals are car­riers and potential spreaders of the virus, according to a repre­sentative from the National AIDS Hotline. 
Most of the one million carri­ers do not even know that they carry the virus, he said. 
It is estimated that by the end of 1991, over 270,000 cases of AIDS will have been diagnosed. In that same year, 145,000 people will need health care which will cost an estimated $8 to 16 billion. 
Of the 270,000 cases re­ported, most victims were in the prime of life-90 percent between the ages of 20 and 49. 
If citizens know the facts about AIDS it can be prevented. AIDS and its related virus, 
tor of Health and Safety Ser­vices of the St. Joseph County Chapter of American Red Cross. 
The program was designed as an introductory and prepara­tory session for those individu­als considering attending a na­tional video-teleconference on AIDS next week at Indiana Uni­versity at South Bend (IUSB). 
human t-lyphotropic, type III (HTLV III) are preventable. The Surgeon General states that risky behavior such as certain types of homosexual and heterosexual activities or shar­ing intravenous drug equipment can lead to infection by the AIDS virus. To control the spreading of AIDS it is essential that all persons take necessary precautions. 

The U.S. Public Health Service recommends that individuals: 
•do 
not have sex with multiple partners or with persons who have multiple partners. 

•avoid 
sex with persons with AIDS. 

•use 
condoms during inter­course. 

•avoid 
anal intercourse. 

•do 
not use intravenous drugs. If you do, do not share needles. 


The transmission of the dis­ease can not be seen through the naked eye. It usually enters into a person's circulatory sys­tem through their penis, rectum or vagina. A visible tear in the tissue or the occurrence of blood is not necessarily a sign of transmission. 
The Center for Disease Con­trol (CDC) strongly recom­mends the use of condoms. They are the best preventive measure against the virus, as well as other sexually transmit­ted diseases, besides absti­nence. The CDC published guidelines for condom use. 
CDC suggests using condoms made of Latex rubber. A sper­micidal condom may provide additional protection. Condom use is safer with a water based 
see NO/AIDS I page 4 

Football weekend activities 
Friday 7 p.m. Pep rally, JACC-North Dome. 
Saturday 9 a.m. Notre Dame & Saint Mary's alumni, family & friends are invited to the Alumni Hospitality Center, JACC-North Dome. 9:30a.m. Shenanigans performance, JACC-North Dome. 10 a.m. Glee Club performance, JACC-North Dome. 
10:30 a.m. Band concert, steps of Main Building. 11 a.m. Pom-pon performance, JACC-North Dome. 
12:10 p.m. Kickoff, Notre Dame vs. SMU, Stadium. Following the game Notre Dame & Saint Mary's alumni, family & friends are invited to the Alumni Hospitality Center. JACC-North Dome. 8:30-11:30 p.m. Parents, faculty, staff, and students are invited to a coffee and dessert buffet at South Dining Hall. 

----------~------------­
OF INTEREST 

The Glee Club will hold an open re­hearsal today at 4:45 p.m. in Crowley Hall. 
Tri-Military retreat ceremony in honor of Veterans Day will be held today at the South Quad flagpole. 
Expo Roma '89, presented by the fourth year architecture class, is on display until Nov. 17 in the Architecture Building lobby. 
Sophomore Applications for Junior Parents' Weekend Sophomore Committee Chairperson are due today at 5 p.m. in the Office of Student Activities. 
ALMANAC 
On November 10: 

e In 1871: Journalist and ex­plorer Henry Stanley found missing Scottish missionary David Livingstone in central Africa. Stanley delivered his now-famous greeting: "Dr. Liv­ingstone, I presume?" Living­stone replied: "Yes, and I feel thankful that I am here to wel­come you." e In 1928: Hirohito was en­throned as the emperor of Japan. e In 1969: The children's edu­cational program "Sesame Street" made its debut on PBS. e In 1975: The ore-hauling ship Edmund Fitzgerald and its crew of 29 vanished during a storm in Lake Superior. 

MARKET UPDATE 
Cloalnga for November 9, 1989 

Volume in shares 

143.39 Million 
NVSE Index 

186.75 "Oo.73 S&P Composite .n. _ 336.58 v 1 57 Dow Jones Industrials 
2,603.89 {719.47 
Precious Metals Gold {7 $1.80 to $389.00 I oz. 
Silver '(} 1.3¢ to $5.308 I oz. 
Source: AP 
page 2 
-
INSIDE COLUMN 


ND visitors must watch alcohol abuse 
We'vP. all hP-ard Sergeant Tim Mc­Carthy of the Indiana State Police warn fans about drinking and driving at all of the home football games. As college 

students, we hear a 
lot about the dangers Robyn Simmons of drunk driving, and Assistant Accent Editor the University makes it quite clear that they don1t trust us enou~h to hold an open can of bee. while walking across campus, even during home football weekends. 
The University doesn't trust students, but it does trust the thousands of alumni and other out of-town fans who come to campus, to drink before, during and after the game, and then drive home. Who poses the greater danger-the student who drinks on campus and stays on campus, or the alumni and other fans who drink on campus and weave their way home a few hours later? 
Case in point: after the USC game my par­ents and I were driving back home along with hundreds of other ND fans on the Chicago Skyway. As we approached the toll booth, we noticed that at least one fellow fan was having a considerable amount of trouble getting past the booth. 
First of all. the man was trying to use dollar bills to get through the exact change lane. His car had already passed up the basket where he was supposed to toss in the coins, so he tried handing a fistful of bills to the attendant in the booth. There was one small problem: there was no attendant in the booth. When an attendant finally did walk over to see what was the matter, the guy staggered out of his car. This guy cer­tainly was pathetic, and he was well over 
21. If it weren't for the fact that he tumbled out of a shiny new Cadillac, I would have mistaken him for a wino on the street. 
This isn't the kind of person I want shar­ing the expressway with me, and I don't think he was the only visitor who poured himself into his car after the game and de­cided that he was sober enough to drive. The University is really good at limiting the alcohol consumption of the students, but they turn the other way when their favorite sons return to party. 
When the party's over the students will still be on campus, but the visitors will be on the road. I think a lot of students here are smart enough to let some else drive if they're going to drink, but l don't think the message has hit home for some of our older fans. It wouldn't hurt any of the inebriated fans to wait a few hours to sober up before hitting the road (or hitting someone else.) 
So if there are any visiting fans out there who plan on waddling back to their cars and driving home while they're still well-lit, keep this mind: if you get yourself killed your family has to live with it, if you kill someone else you have to live with it. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre uame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7 4 71  
Friday's Staff  
Production  
News Kelley Tuthill  Joe Zadrozny Cristina Oritz  Spor1s Steve Megargee  
Monica Yant  
Systems  Irish Extra EdHor  
Ad Design Amy Eckert  Molly Schwartz Michael Gargiulo  Theresa Kelly Catherine Danahy  
Val Poletto  
Meg Callahan Anita Covelli Jeanne Naylor  VIewpoint Christine Walsh Janice O'Leary Kate Foster  Accent Robyn Simmons Liz Havael Brian Grunert  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday hrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The )bserver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction ·ights are reserved. 

The Observer Friday, November 10, 1989 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, November 10. 
Lines show high temperatures. 

~-----------------------------------------------.
Pressure
®© I~S:-l ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
WORLD 

Deng Xiaoping, China's senior leader, passed his last formal leader­ship post to his chosen successor, Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin, Thursday. Foreign diplomats and Chi­nese sources agree Deng is likely to remain the leading voice in party and government affairs, as he has been since leaving the Politburo and Central Committee in 1987. 


Seventeen million dollars in artwork stolen from Pablo Picasso's granddaughter were recovered by investi­gators Thursday, finding them at the home of a restaura­teur in Grasse, France, who was then arrested, police said. Police identified the missing works only as seven paintings by Pablo Picasso, a Breughel, an Odilon Redon, three lesser-known 19th century works and a bust by sculptor August Rodin. 
NATIONAL 

Teaching chastity, not condom education in public schools, was the focus of an AIDS statement ap­proved in a 219-4 vote by secret ballot at the National Conference of Catholic Bishops. The bishops also called upon the United States to press for Middle East talks leading to an independent Palestinian homeland in their Thursday statement in Baltimore. In other business, the bishops approved a rite allowing laypeople to conduct Sunday services, though not Mass, and endorsed a plan to increase the participation of black Catholics in the church. 
INDIANA 

An assailant posing as a delivery man forced his way into a Munster, IN. home Thursday, then shot and killed the couple who lived there. The couple's son was pistol-whipped by the attacker, but was able to escape and run to a nearby school to call police. The slayings were the first in Munster in eight years, Police Chief William Sudsbury said. 
Nicaragua's foreign minister said Thursday his government will meet Contra demands for a truce and amnesty if the rebels agree to begin disbanding by the end of the month. In the first private talks in more than a year between the warring groups, the U.S.-backed Con­tras countered with a plan to restore the cease-fire with the leftist Sandinista government and discuss other condi­tions -such as demobilization -later. Neither proposal was accepted. 
Former Indian activist Robert Satiacum was ordered deported to the United States on Thursday, hours after he was convicted of fondling a 1 0-year-old girl in an unrelated case in Vancouver. The U.S. government has been trying to extradite the former chairman of the Puyallup Indian Tribe in Washington state for several years on embezzlement and racketeering convictions.The deportation hearing did not deal with Satiacum's convic­tion for sexual touching for which faces a maximum sen­tence of 10 years. 
The infant boy born in an emergency Caesarian sec­tion to a pregnant shooting victim died Thursday, two weeks after his mother was shot to death and his father wounded when they were held up outside a childbirth class. Carol Stuart, 30, a lawyer who was seven months pregnant, was shot in the head by a gunman who held up 
the couple in their car after they left a Boston hospital Oct. 23. Charles Stuart, 29, who managed to contact res­cuers with his cellular car telephone, was shot in the ab­domen and listed in stable condition Thursday. 
Students who park in the Dl or Cl lots must move their cars into White Field North or the D2 lot for the SMU football game. Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security, said that students with Dl or Cl decals may not park in the D6 lot. 
Forecast: 

Mostly cloudy today with a 30 percent chance of' morning flurries. High in the lower to middle 40s. Mostly cloudy tonight. Low in the middle to upper 30s. Mostly cloudy and warmer Saturday. High near 55. 
Yesterday's high: 46 Yesterday's low: 36 Nation's high: 9 5 
(Brownsville, Texas.) 

Nation's low: 1 8 (Flagstaff, Ariz. and Gallup, N.M.) 
~--------------------------------..------------------------­
Friday, November 10, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Navy fighter explodes, crashes into building 
SMYRNA, Ga. (AP)-A Navy 

fighter jet exploded and crashed into an apartment complex while attempting to land near this Atlanta suburb Thursday evening, engulfing several buildings in a fireball that left five people missing. 
Smyrna police Lt. J.L. Martin said officers believed at least one man was trapped and killed in the fire that engulfed three apartment buildings. Officials gave conflicting estimates of the number of injured ranging from four to 12 people. 
"My first officer on the scene said he heard screams, but the building was engulfed in flames and he couldn't get in," Martin said. 
A search of the first nine of 12 apartment units that were demolished revealed no bodies, said John Patterson. the Cobb County emergency management director. 
Capt. George Brogdon of the Smyrna Police Department said several injuries were serious. Among the injured was the pi­lot. who was in critical condi­tion with burns and internal in­juries after ejecting from the plane. 
Authorities said the A-7E Corsair II attack jet crashed shortly after 6 p.m. into the Pine Village Apartments off Windy Hill Road, a heavily trav­eled thoroughfare lined with scores of apartment complexes and businesses. 
Witnesses said the plane landed in a parking lot, setting several cars on fire and spew­ing burning fuel over the build­ings. The fire was under con­trol about two hours after the crash. 
Several witnesses said the jet 

exploded in the air. 
"I saw it out my kitchen win­

dow. It was stable, then it just 
exploded in the air and went 
straight down," said Tawanna 
Washington, who lives in an 
adjacent apartment complex. 
"When I went outside, I saw a 

ball of fire heading toward the 
ground," said eyewitness Terry 
Scott. "After the second or 
N.C. 


S.C. 
ALA. 

GEORGIA 

.;:>..•.,.. _,.,.,::;···· ··· ... FLA. 1100 miles 
third explosion, the pilot ejected himself from the seat." 
Scott said he saw the pilot's parachute deploy when he was just about 100 feet above the ground. "When I got to the pi­lot to give him CPR, he had mul­tiple contusions and was bleed­ing profusely from the nose and mouth. I gave him CPR and got him as comfortable as possi­ble." 
Navy spokesman Kerry Honore said the pilot, a Naval reservist, was attempting to land at Dobbins Air Force Base, about 15 miles north of Atlanta, but crashed 2.5 miles short of the runway. The jet is based at the Naval Air Station, which is located at Dobbins. 
Honore, who said the plane carried no ammunition, could not confirm that the jet ex­ploded in the air. He said au­thorities did not know what caused the crash. 
A Navy Department spokesman, Cmdr. Mark Baker, said he presumed the plane was on a routine training mission. 
Joy Schmiedt, who lives two miles from the complex, said she heard two explosions and her TV blinked off. 
"I went to door and saw flames in the air. (I) went over there and (the place) was just totally engulfed in flames," she said. 
Schmiedt, a nurse, ran to the scene and offered help. "It was a horrible sight. I'm convinced there are people still in their apartments they haven't found." 
The Co-op Advantage UIC's MBAConsider the benefits of your MBA from UIC. A program that works with you: Gain management experience while earning a salary through co-op. You'll enhance your resume and you could land a great job. Excellent teaching and research in 11 concentrations comple­ment your co-op learning experience. A dynamic location for learning and living: Chicago's exciting business environ­ment is in our front yard-and our backyard. Our campus is easily accessed by car and public transportation. A valuable alternative: Chicago's only state-supported, AACSB-accredited MBA program helps you reach your goals without losing your shirt. For details, write or call 312-996-4573. ~ ~RSITY ~l~ The MBA Program (M/C CJ77) College of Business Administration Box 4348 Chicago, Illinois 60680 A representative will be on campus November 15th. Please sign up at your placement office.  

ND/SMC community takes back the night 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 

in the office, we're not our than an increase in the fre­
News Writer 

whole selves." quency of the crime itself. 
"Take Back the Night," a "I want to claim for us the Despite the increased campus march to promote ability to not be afraid, and :twareness by both faculty awareness of and protest to be our whole selves," she and students, Twohy said, "I violence against women, at­said. don't think it's completely tracted about 50 men and Two students then did a safe; I don't think it'll be women Thursday. brief skit to emphasize the completely safe on this cam­
The march began at the trauma that rape victims are pus 20 years from now." "Woman at the Well" statue often put through when they "But you've got to recog­in front of O'Shaughnessy press charges. They enacted nize the good that's oc­Hall, then continued on Saint the trial of a robbery victim, curred." she added. Mary's or "Rape Road" ironically asking the ques­Some areas on campus which connects Notre Dame tions many rape victims are that Twohy perceived as un­to Saint Mary's College and asked such as, "What were safe include "Rape Road," finally returned to the you wearing?" and "Why the areas around the lakes, Rockne Memorial at Notre were you out alone so late?" and the route from graduate Dame. At Saint Mary's College school housing to the li­
The route was two students spoke. brary. intentionally designed to go "As incoming freshmen we "I would not walk from through areas where assault were told, 'That's Rape Club 23 to Notre Dame has occurred in the past. Road.' No one questioned it. alone." she said. There was an approximately Why weren't we immediately Before the march last equal showing by both sexes outraged?" said Laurie night, a "speakout," with on the march. Vickel. intentionally low profile and 
Marchers chanted phrases Mary Twohy, a Notre open only to women, took such as "Woman unite -Dame representative of place. The purpose of the take back the night!" and Women United for Justice speakout was to allow stopped periodically to sing and Peace, said that the pur­women to share their expe­songs including "Bread and pose of the march was not riences and fears regarding Roses." to create animosity assault, Twohy said. 
Before the march began, throughout campus, but to three women spoke briefly. "recognize the increased "Women can basically say "Fear is something we just awareness" of security what they want without the 
can't live with," said Kathy issues taking place. fear of men being offended," Royer, coordinator for ser­Twohy said that the in­said Twohy, "It's a very em­vice/social action groups at creased number of reported powering experience." the Center for Social Con­assaults this year was a mo­The march was sponsored cerns. "It doesn't just mean tivation to have the march. by Women United for Justice we're afraid to walk out at She said that she believes and PP-ace and the Women's night; it means that when we this increase is due to Concerns Commission of go to class and when we're greater awareness rather Student Government. 
SMC AIDS policy stresses needs of victim 
advised to contact Student
cally address the issue of AIDS Saint Mary's Editor and student activities, housing Health Services. or classroom attendance, Saint 

By CHRISTINE GILL 

Gloria Chelminiak, director of Mary's will help to "assist... in 
health services, said that edu­
An AIDS policy instituted by receiving medical and health cation is key to addressing the 
Saint Mary's College two years care" and "if students are un­problem of AIDS. Health Ser­
ago outlines the role of the col­able to pursue their normal re­vices has a variety of informa­
lege in dealing with AIDS in the sponsibilities...assistance will tion available to those who are 
College community. be provided in arranging a interested. 
"Persons in the Saint Mary's medical leave of absence." Testing for the HIV virus 
community with evidence of the For faculty and staff, the through Health Services is pos­
HTLV III antibodies or Ac­policy is similar in content: "If sible, though according to 
quired Immune Deficiency Syn­individuals are unable to per­Chelminiak, no one has ever re­
drome (AIDS) will be given the form their normal job respon­quested this service of the cen­
same attention and under­sibilities, another job may be ter. 
standing that is given to any arranged" or "if the person is Next semester there will be 
individual with a serious health unable to perform any other peer education training courses 
problem," says the policy, reasonable duties, a medical on AIDS. This on-going training 
which is listed in the student leave may be granted." program for students will focus 
and personnel handbooks. Both versions stress the con­on AIDS as a "social, as well as 
fidentiality of the individual as health issue," Chelminiak said. 
The policy stresses that each it applies to any person with a Counseling and Career Devel­
case will be considered serious health problem. 
opment and Campus Ministry 
"unique" and handled according Any member of the College are also available for advice or 
to the individual's needs. community seeking medical or counseling of a non-medical 
Although it does not specifi-health information on AIDS is nature. 




··~·-·····~···~··~·~ 

22-POINT SAFETYI SERVICE INSPECTION 
+ 

WYNN'S POWER FLUSH 
Get Ready For Fall And Wlntw


$4995 
For loth hrvfc..

The Killilea Connnitmlllt . .. 
r\"P-

Satisfaction Guarantlld. 
Keep that g..-GM tM11ng with genuine OM perta. 


KILffLEA 

II 
OLDS •-NISSAN
/u..? .~2102 Llncolnway West, Mishawaka IN 46544 
(219) 255-9644 
• ~ .-• • • • .a • a .. • a • & • .a tt&Jl.&: 
.-----------------~-------------------~--------------------~--------­
page 4 


Church 
continued from page 1 
ing all 42 stained glass win­dows so that they can clean and restore the antique glass. Ac­cording to Dedrick, Father Sorin ordered this stained glass from the Carmelite nuns of Le Mans, France in 1872. 
"Because many examples of it were destroyed during the Sec­ond World War, those windows represent the finest coHection of this 19th century French stained glass in the world," said Dedrick. The windows contain 114 life size figures and 106 smaller figures. 
Dedrick said that the tedious process of stained glass restoration has been going on for about 16 months and will probably continu~ for another year. 
In addition. Conrad Schmitt Studios is now touching up the frescoes on the ceiling and high walls of Sacred Heart tc re­semble their original colors, said Dedrick. 

For thr facts call )OW local~ Cross, or writt: AIDS 
+
Alnerbn ~ Cross 1::'!1:: \\ashlngton, DC 20006 
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYLING FOR 
MEN•.
..I~OMEN 
I ­
I , : 
531 N: Michigan St. Ph 


These paintings were done 
over a four year period by Luigi 
Gregori, the Vatican artist who 
lived and worked at Notre 
Dame from 1874 to 1891, ac­
cording to Garvey. 
This is the first time that these Gregori frescoes have been cleaned, said Dedrick. The gold leaves and intricate sten­cils in the wall designs are fi­nally becoming visible again, he added. 
Dedrick said the renovations include the replacement of the old pews with carved pews that are "more in the spirit of the period." An updated sound sys-tern and new carpeting will also be added. 
The Gregori designed stations of the cross will be reguilded, said Dedrick. The 18th century Bernini altar, purchased in Rome in 1886, will also be im­proved to match its original splendor, said Garvey. 
..A restored Sacred Heart adds a great deal to campus heritage. The church is a price­less historical sanctuary that should be important to all Notre Dame students," said Dedrick. 



N D/AI OS 
· 
continued from page 1 
lubricant as opposed to oil-based. 

Within dating situations, it is safer if individuals do not be­come sexually active too quickly, according to the CDC. One can not physically tell if someone is infected with the AIDS virus. However, individu­als can talk with a prospective partner. 
"If you know someone well enough to have sex, you should be able to talk about AIDS," said Otis Bowen, M.D. and Robert Windom, M.D., from Health and Human Services. 
AIDS can be transmitted through oral sex, said a repre­sentative from the National AIDS Hotline. 
The virus no longer is con­tained within the homosexual communities of America. It has infected heterosexuals, infants, school age children, poor and wealthy, black, Hispanic and white. 
Seventy percent of those di­

~KKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKM 
~ NOTRE DAME PARENTS 
~ 
~HAVE YOUR SON OR DAUGHTER LIVE 
~  IN A  
~  CONDOMINIUM WHILE AT SCHOOL  
~  
~  *1 mile from Notre Dame*  
~  *New Construction*  
~  *Tax Abatement*  
~  *Security Systems*  
~  **A profitable investment**  
~  **Many tax benefits**  
~  
~  call  
~  TARIPP DEVELOPMENT CORP.  
~  Contact Christopher Matteo  
~  (219) 232-8256  


1Lli.OII · I•DtUA 
CHICAGO
•
MOTOR 
CLUB 

(formerly Lenny's American Grill) 
ALL NEW ITEMS: Pizza Gyros I Phili Steak Sandwiches Burgers
I assorted soups, salads, and appetizers 
I I Bring this coupon in for 25% off 
I of any food purchase. 
I I Under 21 always welcome 
The Observer 
~ 

---·---------------.~~--------~----------­
Friday, November 10, 1989 
agnosed with AIDS die within two years. Usually their lives deteriorate very rapidly. Germs, bacteria, protozoa, fungi, and malignancies are all able to infiltrate the AIDS in­fected body. 
However, one does not catch AIDS like a cold or flu. The Surgeon General explicitly re­minds the nation that AIDS cannot be transmitted through everyday contact such as: 
•kissing 
•donating 
blood 

•saliva, 
sweat, urine, tears or bowel movements 

• 
toilet seats, telephones 

•shaking 
hands, swimming in pools, or sharing bed linens. 


In receiving blood, one should remember that all blood after March of 1985 has been screened. It is estimated by the Surgeon General that infection 
from blood transfusions occurs 
in less than one of I00,000 do­
nations. 
"It is an epidemic that has al­ready killed thousands of peo­ple, mostly young, productive Americans. It is the responsibil­ity of every citizen to be in­formed about AIDS and to ex­ercise the appropriate preven­tative measures," said former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop, M.D. 
All information was gathered from the Surgeon General's He­port on AIDS and Health and Human Services Heports. 
For more information about AIDS contact University Health Services at 239-7497. In South Bend call the St. Joseph County Health Department's AIDS in­formation line at 284-9781. The number for the National AIDS Hotline is (800)342-AIDS. 
TRIDENT NAVAL SOCIETY 
is sponsoring a 

to raise money for the 




SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
10:00am Friday-10:00am Saturday= = e = 

:~iE"Show your support for the I 
= Special Olympics by iW' bringing donations to ~ the tent set up ~ ~ at Stonehenge. ~




'II,

= -= -W TM ­
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 

CASH IN ON GOOD GRADES. 
U you're a freshman or sophomore with 
good grades, apply now for a three-year or 
two-year scholarship. From Army ROTC. 
Army ROTC scholarships pay tuition, most books and fees, plus $100 per school month. They also pay off with leadership experience and officer credentials impressive to future employers. 
i 
ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU W TAKE. 

Contact Major Weiss 239-6264 

--------lllllli 
Friday, November 10, 1989 The Observer page 5 

Fiery clash AP Photo Radical students in Seoul hurl firebombs at a police vehicle during an uprising at Konduk University. 
Islamic fundamentalists score victory in Jordan 
AMMAN, Jordan (AP) -Is­lamic fundamentalists stunned pro-government candidates by taking 34 of the 80 seats in Parliament in Jordan's first general election in 22 years, ac­cording to results reported Thursday. 
Fundamentalists rolled up huge totals in Wednesday's election while powerful former government officials struggled to win and sometimes failed. 
The outcome appeared a set­back for King Hussein, who urged voters not to mix religion with politics. 
It also was a disappointment to Jordanian women, who ran and voted in their first national election. None won of the 12 women among 647 parliamen­tary candidates won. 

Victors included men once imprisoned on political grounds and one convicted in an attack on an Israeli airline office in Athens. 
The new Parliament seems certain to be more assertive than the often passive legisla­ture dissolved last year. Hus­sein retains ultimate power, however, and martial law in ef­feet since the 196 7 Arab-Israeli war continues. 
Parliament must approve all laws and can dismiss govern­ments, but the king can dissolve the legislature and rule without it, as he has done for much of the past 15 years. 
Israeli officials, who regard Hussein as a moderate Arab leader, expressed some concern about the election results. One said, on condition of anonymity: "What we are speaking about is a substantial opposition to the king from the right. ... This might bring a problem for the king." 
In the vanguard of the fun­damentalist campaign was the Moslem Brotherhood. Its 26 declared and sevmal allied can­didates called for social justice, stricter Islamic morality and the destruction of Israel. 
"The people want Islam and it is not strange ... to have such a large number of Moslem can­didates winning," Brotherhood spokesman Ziad Abu Ghanimeh said. 
Fundamentalists often have allied themselves with Hussein, a descendant of the prophet Mohammed, against secular leftists, but have pressed him 
and 

OPEN  QUEEN OF PEACE MINISTRIES  for restrictions on Western­type entertainment, more social  
Tue. -SCit. 5:00pm 'fhs M,\L,\BA  MEDJUGORJE PRAYER MEETING FATIMA RETREAT CENTER every SUNDAY EVENING!  welfare programs and greater separation of the sexes. Final results gave 22 seats to Brotherhood randidates. Other Islamists won 12 seats,  
Excellent  Medjugorje introductory session 7:00 P.M. to 7:30 P.M.  some of the 20 or so pro-gov­ks 
1ndi.an CuLsLne  Medjugorje Prayer Meeting.........7:30 P.M. to 9:00P.M.  ernment figures also had linto the Islamic movement.  
R.IttR'P~noMSlltS\RtD 1709 SOUTJl BEND .tVE. (EDUtl?hMU.S. 2!) (219)271-11115  "If I wasn't a Pope, I'd be in Medjugorje already!" -John Paul II  Leftists, Arab nationalists, tribal leaders and others took the rest of the seats.  
ARTHUR ANDERSEN &ID ------presents-----­PERSONAL FINANCIAL PLANNING FOR THE NEW COLLEGE GRADUATE Tuesday) November 14) 1989 Hayes-Healy Auditorium 4:15p.m. Room122  


Friday, November 10, 19691page 6 The Observer Student Government sponsors family social 
DART courses closed on Nov. 9 
Editor's note: The Ob­server publishes only those 1826 5157 courses which have dosed 2056 5160 
2118 5163

the day previous to publica­
2375 5165

tion. This is not a complete 2491 5171 list. 2568 5226 2604 5253
0008 0518 1357 2669 53010015 0619 1358 2799 53130037 0844 1360 2810 53280054 1000 1362 2816 53410055 1072 1364 3161 53510129 1077 1365 3219 54070144 1085 1366 3263 54100156 1087 1373 3268 54740170 1090 1378

AP Photo 
5007 5475

Faithfut supporters 
0397 1257 1395 5009 54820398 1264 1502 5010 5485

East German communist party members applaud and send a pro-government message during a demon­
0464 1270 1813 5017 5487

stration Wednesday. The party's central committee was in East Berlin to elect new politburo members. 
0465 1276 1814 5142 55020475 1297 1817 
eti' r?teA
eee·e 
E.CE8.51.2J<t ~.51.S&Jl8E <Jl<JlESE<lJ<"IS 


* WHOLESALE PRICES * 

SWEATERS! 


YOU'RE IN FOR MORE THAN YOU EXPECTED IF YOU JUST EXPECTED SWEATERS! WOOL SCAIRVES, FISHERMAN KNITS, HEAVY AND LIGHT SKI SWEATERS; OVER 15 STYLES. WE ARE A MOTHER-DAUGHTER COMPANY COMMITTED TO PROVIDING A HIGH QUALITY PRODUCT FOR A COLLEGE STUDENT'S BUDGET. ALL OF OUR SWEATERS ARE FULLY GUARANTEED. PERIOD. WE EVEN PUT OUR PHONE NUMBER ON THE LABEL. MASTERCARD, VISA, AND PERSONAL CHECKS ACCEPTED 
WHERE: LaFortune Center WHEN: Nov. 8-9-10 &11 (Sat) 

Cutting Edge Review Sharpens Study Skills 
By MONICA YANT News Writer 

Parents, students, faculty, staff and administration can share dessert and coffee, while listening to the Glee Club Sat­urday, 8:30-11:30 p.m. 
Wendy Burek of student gov­ernment says this Saturday might be the start of something that "could be an annual event." 
Burek said that parents' weekend has traditionally con­sisted of only a football game in which parents receive tickets. A social function of some type was needed, "so that when par­ents come for the game, they have something to do with their students," she said. 
The coffee and dPssert will bP held in South Dining Hall. Cost is $5 dollars per family, or $2 dollars per person. 
CHICAGO-Viewed by the industry as the most progressive CPA review program in the country, Conviser Duffy continues to make unprecedented achieve­ments in applying accelerated learning techniques. 
Michael J. Duffy, National Program Director, feels that the learning method used by their lecturers ~~eliminates the mental block that inhibits most students' natural learning ability. As the student becomes more relaxed, his or her ability to recall increases." 
Duffy feels that his program exercises the ability of the CPA candidate to both visualize their goal (passing the CPA exam) and realize it. How? By learning to do the following: 
-Create a relaxed study environment -Make the mental associations upon which visual learning depends -Rehearse and immediately reinforce information -Organize and group ideas -Interact with the lecturer. 

The above points are neatly tied together with Conviser Duffy's live/video presentation, comprehensive textbooks, workbook, tape make-up facilities and unconditional guarantee. 
Says Duffy, 44Preparing for the CPA 
a1

exam is serious business and it takes serious commitment from both parties to succeed.,, All this is powerful news for the accountant who wants to gain his certification with the most professional streamline review on the market. 
Further information may be obtained by phoning 1-800-274-EXAM. 
BOSTON (AP) Kitty Dukakis remained hospitalized Thursday, recovering from the effects of drinking rubbing al­cohol. but Gov. Michael Dukakis refused to speculate on whether the gesture was a 



TRACKS 
RECORDS 
1631 E. Edison 277-8338 
Buy -Sell -Trade -COs -LPs -Tapes BEST SELECTION OF COs IN INDIANA 
Hits On Sale Daily 1 0.99 CD $6.99 TAPE 
BULLET LAVOLTA 

"Prepare to be utterly overwhelmed, beaten over the head, and left begging for more," says Rockpool. According to Sounds, "bonds don't come any cooler." Bullet lovo\to\ album, ''The Gift;' now on RCA Records with two additional tracks: "Over The Shoulder," and "Dead Wrong." 

L___ _......__.__...J changed the shape of doting ... " 

RECORDS 
.I 
THE PRIMITIVES 
Rolling Stone said of their debut album, "lovely," "in 
operfect world, every song on this record would be a hit."... And the fi~t single, "(rash;' was. The new album from the #1alternative bond is pure Primitives. "Pure:' featuring "Sick Of It" and "Secrets." 

THE DEL FUEGO$ 
Roots rock for the people, of the people and by none 
other than The Del Fuegos. They rocked the masses 
with afree concert in New York's Central Pork. College 
Music Journal says of their new album, "Smoking In 
The fields"" breathes with life and vigor, capturing 
the string-busting guts and sweat that they hove been 
busting out on stages and in bo~ for so long:' 

THE STONE ROSES 

Stone Roses cut deep. Tear into fresh rock from this guitar-driven Manchester bond who hove already inspired a huge core of fanatical followe~. Their debut album, ''The Stone Roses" cuts right to the bone, starting with "She Bongs The Drums" and "Elephant Stone." 


GRAHAM PARKER 
He's one of the few artists with two albums in Rolling Stone's Top 60 Albums of All Time. Now he reveals his real and surreal side on "Human Soul;' his new album on which no one escapes Parker's scrutiny, from the American media to AIDS and little "Green Monkeys:' "In alob somewhere a rodent pair were busy mating/As their D.N.A. got blown away it 

SPECIAL OFFER 
To get a specially priced casseHo featuring tho music of all these artists, plus Peter Murphy, Pop Will Eat Itself and Michael Penn, send $3.50 plus S1.50 postage and handling ($5 in totaij, and your name and address Ia: Dr. ROCK, Dept. E 
RCA RECORDS 
P.O. BOX 164. INDIANAPOU$, IN 46291 
It'll be the best 5 bucks you'll ever spend. 
u..Xs.. On RCA Records casseHes, com pad discs and albums. !@) ~-'~'J 
@~ I mil(!)® legi!lmd • MoKo(s)legistrodo(s) RU(orp<"otion. BMG logo® BMG Muor • © 1989 BMG Muor 
relapse of an alcoholic or a self-destructive act. 
Mrs. Dukakis was treated for alcoholism earlier this year, and has previously admitted to a 26-year addiction to diet pills. She has been lauded for her 

Friday, November 10, 1989 The Observer page 7 

Experts say that alcoholics will drink any type of alcohol 
candor about her chemical de­propyl alcohol can be lethal, family physician, said Mrs. pendency and her efforts at re­said Alan Woolf, director of the Dukakis had been taking anti­covery. Massachusetts Poison Center at depressants prescribed by her 
Several alcohol and drug Children's Hospital in Boston. psychiatrist but tests indicated abuse experts said recovering Mrs. Dukakis was taken to no other drugs or alcoholic alcoholics will drink anything the hospital by ambulance after beverages were involved in her containing alcohol if liquor experiencing "severe reaction" current illness. isn't available when the craving to drinking rubbing alcohol Mrs. Dukakis was said to be hits. Monday night, which she swal­suffering from exhaustion 
"Rubbing alcohol is not un­lowed in a state of exhaustion stemming from a hectic sched­common," said Dominic Ci­with flu symptoms and depres­ule of speaking engagements raulo, a senior consultant in sion, her doctor said. and work on her upcoming substance abuse at New Eng­She had been asleep for sev­book. She recently returned land Medical Center in Boston. eral hours when the governor from a trip to Colorado, where "People drink shaving lotion, returned home, said Dukakis' she participated in an Outward mouthwash, you name it. Some­press secretary, Mindy Lubber. Bound program. times the craving for alcohol Dukakis woke his wife when becomes so intense that they she received a phone call; it was Dukakis, who returned to ignore the risks." upon awakening that Mrs. work Thursday after two days
Rubbing alcohol is normally Dukakis said she felt groggy by his wife's side, issued a about 70 percent isopropyl al­and sick, Lubber said. statement saying I:J.e would cohol, and 10 ounces of iso-Gerald Plotkin, the Dukakis stand by her. 

AP Photo 

Kitty and Gov. Michael Dukakis answer questions during a March 1989 news conference after her release from an alcoholic treatment center. Mrs. Dukakis was admitted to a Boston hospital Monday after consum­ing an undetermined amount of rubbing alcohol. 


Fordham Universit Graduate School of Business Administration 
ExTRAORDINARY OPPORTUNITY! 
We Are Recruiting For A Unique MBA Program In Taxation And Accounting 
WHAT? This is a new program with scholarships that results in an MBA degree in Taxation and Accounting while qualifying its graduates to sit for the CPA exam. 
WHO? We are seeking a select group of high-achieving, analyt(cal, strategic thinkers with liberal arts or science backgrounds to enter this full-time (2 year) program. 
WHY? No other program prepares its graduates to function immediately in both taxation and accounting; our students "hit the ground running." Haskell Edelstein, Senior Vice President of Citibank says,"The kind of people this program will graduate are the. kind of people who ha"e the greatest chance to go far in a company like ours." 
WHEN? Dr. Walter O'Connor, former Vice Chairman International of Peat & Marwick, is the Director of the Fordham Taxation and Accounting 
WHERE? Program and will be interviewing candidates in person on: Date: Thursday, November 16, 1989 Time: !O:OOam Place: Career and Placement Services 
Theodore Hcsburgh Library (Lower Level) Contact: Phyllis Sandfort (219) 239· 5200 


page 8  The Observer  Friday, November 10, 1989  
The Wall continued from page 1  The wa·ll, a symbol of oppression  
BERLIN (AP)  -The jagged,  Hundreds of brave East Ger­ sweeping in from Moscow and  
llis  parents  said  they just  gray concrete wall that divides  mans tried to scale the wall or  striking reforms taking place in  
wanted to see the West -and then drive back. They declined to give their names. "We heard it on TV, we just decided to go over and have a look," said the young man's fa­ther. "We want to show our  Berlin is a Cold War symbol of freedom denied. It was built under the direc­tion of Erich Honecker to stop the hemorrhage of East Ger­mans fleeing to the West -about 2.5 million escaped to  tunnel under it or crash through a checkpoint. Many died in the attempt. The 28-mile-long wall is only a part of elaborate fortifica­tions that stretch all along the 860-mile border between East  nearby Poland and Hungary, the discredited and hard-line East Germany was finally over­whelmed by a popular revolt. From barbed wire and simple barricades started in 1961, the wall has grown in some areas  
son a little bit of Kurfuersten­damm."  freedom between Aug. 13, 1961.  1949  and  Germany and West Germany. A barrier of barbed wire, armed  to a pair of parallel concrete barriers with a "death strip" in  
The Kurfuerstendam.n is one  Now,  in  one  of  history's  guards, death strips and eerie  between.  
of Europe's most elegant shop­ ironies, the flight to freedom of  lights that played over the bor­ Many escape attempts have  
ping strips. For decades, East Germans locked up behind the  hundreds of thousands of East Germans around the wall and  der at night. But it was the cold concrete  ended with freedom-seekers ly­ing dead in the shadows of the  
now-crumbling Iron Curtain could only dream of seein·g it. /\II apparently were arriving  through neighboring countries has forced the Communist gov­ernment to back down and de­ wall in Berlin, which is sur­rounded by East German terri­tory, that became the symbol.  Berlin Wall or somewhere along the frontier between the two countries.  
without visas, although visas technkally were necess.ary un­ clare free travel will be allowed. And 77-year-old Erich Ho­ "We kept telling ourselves, 'You cannot put a wall right through  Running, driving and even swimming, thousands of Pf'Ople  
der regulations announced ear­ necker has been swept out as  a  major city,"'  said  Helmut  have been caught trying to flee  
lier Thursday. A spokesman for  Communist Party leader by the.  Haar  on  the  wall's  25th  an­ from  East Germany  over  the  
the West German border police in Briwnschweig said the East  exodus and by protests by East Germans demanding demo­ niversary. "Now we're used to it. ..  Berlin Wall or across fortifica­tions along the border with  
Germans had been allowed over  cratic reforms.  Visiting presidents and prime  West Germany.  
the border then' without visas. East German radio an­nounced that East Germans would be rP.quin~d to get a visa for such trips beginning Friday morning. With decades of fortified frontiers apparently at an end,  housing for 980 people in three off-base installations. The surprise move to open the borders came at a Central Committee meeting Thursday. The Central Committen  The 15-foot high structure cut through the city divides families, friend from friend, Berliner from Berliner and communism from capitalism. It drew American presidents like John F. Kennedy who de­clared: "lch bin ein Berliner." It  ministers climbed a special stand to peer ovPr the wall into East Germany. Many called for the wall to be dismantled. But East Germany insisted they dared not open the wall. Honecker said time and again, "The wall will remain as long  Mention of the Berlin Wail conjures up memories not only of desperate escape attempts, but also of major spy swaps between East and West. For years. norder guards watching out for escapes had shoot-to-kill orders, but earlier  
the wall that for decades repre­sented the literal division be­ scheduled a Communist Party conference -the first since  drew tourists like people visit­ing the scene of a grim acci­ as the conditions that led to is construction endure."  this year the East Germans an­nounced that the orders had  



tween the East and West may 1956-for Dec. 15-17. dent. With the political change been lifted. become a mere monument to 
~~~~~~~

the Cold War. 

Ir---------------------,FREE SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR
Since it suddenly appeared during an August night 28 years ago and East Germany's 
1 STUDENTS WHO NEED
borders were sealed, 191 people 


I{£J.IY51

are known to have died while 
MEXICAN • IRISH CAFE 

fleeing to the West. 
IMONEY FOR COWGE
President Bush said if East Germany makes good on its I Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of promise to allow free emigra­
Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. 
I Ir------------·tion, "this wall built in '61 will 
• We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, $1.00 off dinner I 
have very little relevance." 
fellowships, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion In private 
sector funding. I with this coupon I 
i

The White !louse announced 
• Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic
later that Bush had ordered 
Interests, career plans, family-heritage and place of residence. I Expires 11115189 I
U.S. military units in West 
• There's money available for students who have been newspaper car­
Germany to give "all possible 
riers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ...etc. 
L------------1
• Results GUARANTEED. 

assistance" to the West German 
government, which is struggling 
CALL For AFree Brochure • •]
to cope with a flood of East 
ANYTIME 

(800 346-6401 -...::.German refugees. The Pentagon 
~------~~~~~---~ 
said it was making available 
Downtown South !end 
119 N. tldligM 
(~Fhi~Hotel) 
(211123U30 

ATTEN'I'ION 

STUDENTS: 

VIC'S SUBS DELIVERS BEFORE DURING AFTER 
Before the game order During the game, relax After the game don't your favorite Vic's sub and enjoyl Let Vic's light the traffic, let early and we'll deliver deliver to your door so VIc's deliver to you. by game time. We take you won't miss anv ol We take orders until orders at 8:30 a.m. the Irish victory. 1 a.m. 

Free Delivery 
113 Dixie Way North -Roseland) 
Giant 6 Ft. Pany Subs available for tailgating. Order by 6 p.m. Friday. 

Open F« Dinner 
CMrv Outa AWIIable. Sen1tnQ your favotlte wne and cocktail Y....... • RillI rte Plart.l 

"THE ITAUAN RISTORANTE" 
Pasta Dishes • Chicken Cacciatore (211)232-4244 • Veal •Manlcottl • Lasagna 
•Fettuccine Alfredo • Fish • Shrimp
1412loulh 8end Ave. 
•Pizza • .......,.•• & Private Partlee up to 100 


NOTRE DAME Wallpaper and Team Border IN STOCK 
-We h~ly fill rnell and phone orders -an txcelent Christmas Glftl -see ND wellpeper &border In lower level of u Fortune Student Center 
5776 Grape Across from Phar-Mor 


INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA





wallpaper,to 
L WHERE BEAUTIFUL ROOMS BEGIN" 
-------~___..1 
Friday, November 10, 1989 
SECURITY BEAT 
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 8 
A ring was found in the Snite Museum on Saturday, 11/04/89 and was turned in to Security. 
7:47 a.m. Security discovered a vehicle in the D02 Lot that was vandalized. Estimate of damage is unknown at this time. 
12 p.m. An administrator re­ported finding a bike near Alumni Hall. The bike was taken to Secu­rity. 
2:10p.m. A University employee reported that a floor jack had been taken from Galvin Life Science sometime during the past six weeks. 
8:40p.m. An Iowa resident was cited for exceeding the speed limit. The vehicle was traveling at 44 mph in a 25 mph zone on Juniper near Dorr Road. 
9:40p.m. A South Bend resident was cited for exceeding the speed limit. The vehicle was traveling 44 mph. in a 25 mph. zone on Juniper near Dorr Road. 

THURSDAY, NOV. 9 
10:20 a.m. Security responded to a non-injury traffic accident on Old Juniper Road near Lake Road. 
A resident of P.W. reported that her car was broken into in the D02 lot sometime between 5:30 p.m. on 11/2 and 9 a.m. on 11/7. A radio system valued at $300 was taken from the vehicle. 
Crime of the Week 
The Crime of the Week is the the theft of Notre Dame's Golf Course Pro Shop sign. Security reports that the sign. valued at several hundred dollars, was taken some­time between 11/4/89 and 11/5/89. Crime Stoppers wants to know who took this sign and will pay a cash reward for information. If you know about this or any crime at Notre Dame, call Crime Stoppers at 288­STOP. You won't be asked to give your name. 
LOVE, 


GRETCHEN AND BILL 
The Observer 

~------------~·-=------~~--~~-~~-..----~-­
page 9 


RESUMESTYPESET AND PRINTED 
325 DIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BEND [219) 277-3355 215 S. 11TH STREET • NILES 
616 684-2080 

SMC/AIDS 
continued from page 1 
Thursday's meeting was to inform and educate individuals on the most recent facts about AIDS in preparation for next week's event. Jacob discussed and clarified the definition of HIV and AIDS, transmission, symptoms and treatment. She stressed that there is no vac­cine or cure for the disease and said that "it is universally fa­tal." 
"Anybody can choose whether or not to put themselves at risk," Jacob said, referring to high-risk behaviors, such as sharing intravenous drug nee­dles or having sex with some­one you don't know. 
The Wellness Committee at Saint Mary's, which emphasizes physical and mental fitness as 
well as spiritual growth, spon­
sored Thursday's meeting. 


____________________j 
·------------­
page 10 The Observer Friday, November 10, 1989 
Getting Comfortable With a Zenith Laptop Now 


Can Make for a Comfortable Future in the Real World 
Zenith Puts the Power of a Desktop in Your Lap 
For More Details Contact 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Math/Computer Building 239-7477 Mon. Fri. 9 -5 

=· 
·­

Viewpoint
Friday, November 10, 1989 
page 11 
4 


 T UiOTTfl t< /JJ N AM£ D MVR F'lfY ON /ltG Lll'i £; NICE?  
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303  NAUtnltTY o~  
1989-90 General Board Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a R1ch Iannelli Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor . .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager... Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blast Systems Mgr Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Batley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor.. .Christine Gill Controller Anne Lindner The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1n1stration of either institution. The news IS reported as accurately and ob­ 
Jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opin1on of the majority of the follow1ng. Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Satnt Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of vary1ng opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  TftE AMAZINcn S£CRET 51::HlND DART  

LETTERS 

ROTC provides financial wherewithal to attend ND 
/Jear l:'clitor: pation in military training and 
DavP Hedmann's response of subseqw~nt military service. It Nov. 2 to Kurt ;v!ills' article on goes without saying that Amer­BOTC at Notn• Damn tOrt. 31) icans are free to choose mili­was right on targl't. The rhinf tary service and some may wish issuPs do not rnvolvn around to do so as a earner. Perhaps a rl'ligious objections to mili­significant portion of Notre tarism. Notrn Danw's identity Damn's many HOTC students as a Catholic institution, and have already made this choice tlw inronsistnnry of the Univer­bdorn seeking admission. I sity's pfforts to establish peare havn no quarrnl with these stu­studiPs whiiP sponsoring <me of dents. tlw largPst HOTC programs in tlw country. Mr. HPdmann puts In fact, I would like to em­
phasize that some of the best students I have had the plea­'The U.S. military has sur<' of tPaehing at Notre Dame haw bePn non: students. Peo­
become a major factor in 
ple from a variety of sodo-eeo­

determining access to 
nomir and cultural back­

higher education.' grounds Pnrieh the intellectual 
life of an academic community tlw Pmphasis squarl'ly where it and the NotrP Dame adminis­hPiongs wlwn lw notes that tration seems to be genuinely HOTC "pays tlw tuition for a interested in working to create largP numbnr of studnnts. sonw a less homogeneous atmo­of whom might not bn here sphere. However. while I ap­without it." plaud Notre Dame's recent suc­
Otw of out tPn students at­cesses in minority recruitment, tend Notn~ Damn on a HOTC I am troubled by the Univer­"scholarship." Hndmann cor­sity's dependency on military rPrtly obsPrvns that these dollars to help it shape the un­"srholarships an~ not given by dergraduate student body. Notre Dame; tlw Army. Navy. Air Foree giw students schol­The necessity of having a arships to attnnd any accred­military per se and therefore ited university." In other words. condoning its presence at Notre the U.S. military has become a Dame seems to me to miss the major factor in determining ac­point. As Mr. Redmann ob­cess to higher education. This serves, "the military is neces­is particularly true at Notre sary to defend the country" and Dame. "if all else fails ... we need a way 
to defend ourselves." What is of 

The University's efforts in re­great concern, however, is the cruitment. admissions, and fi­degree to which the military nancial aid need to be examined dominates the U.S. economy in light of the significant mili­and the way in which the mili­tary presence on campus. ROTC tary values reach into our soci­docs not "give scholarships." ety: studies indicate that 50 HOTC pays tuition and provides percent of our Federal income a subsistence allowance in re­tax dollars are spent on mili­turn for the student's partici-tary and past war debts and 
DOONESBURY 
011? TH& 5UR6WV 6CN&I<At IMPUCATe Me IN~ AeaJT 395,000, P/6HT~ ANI? YeT 50Cif37Y l-itl? t&,IJ.RNf/) 70 /.JV£3 • 
IAJITH Me ANI? 
MYaJSTl3!.........___ 



MeANWH/1,&, POOR MR. JAY 
IZL TEU.. YOU fA/HAT... r:JOe7N7 HAVe A SINGU /JMTH 
~HAD<!: ... fA/HAT... 70 H/'3 CREilrT, ANI? YOU !3PENV 
:;COf.k7Hif U/HfiR£'5 8/U/ONS FAIUN6 
MY GUM? /AIH&Re'S70 eR.Af?ICATe 
'Football should develop in the

MY I?AMN GUM~ 
HIM! WHAT 
/ 
young men initiative,

GIV6S~ ~ 
~lAM, 
resourcefulness, and the ability

/ B4BY.' ClJ'rle 7DM4MA ... 
to think for themselves.' 
Knute Rockne 

Israelis inflict suffering on innocent families 
for the alleged activism of one By Carl Loesch member, or making entire villages or regions pay for the When I first met Yousef in actions of a few demonstrators. Jerusalem last semester, he Although over 1500 homes have was teaching us about Islam been destroyed by the Israelis for our Middle East politics since 1967, Yousefs house was course. He was only a year or the first one to be demolished two older than the Notre Dame in Bethlehem. The soldiers and Saint Mary's students he loaded his house with dynamite was teaching. He had one year and blew it up while Yousef and of college to finish at Bethle­his family watched from a hem University, but he had to nearby hill. After the house was wait because the schools had destroyed, Yousefs family was been closed since the Israeli not allowed to rebuild on the military saw them as hotbeds same property. He and his of political activity in the In­family lived in tents for a few 
tifada-the uprising. I felt weeks before moving into an 
sorry for Yousef because he apartment nearby. 
was denied the basic human Why do I tell this story to the 
right to an education; only a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
few weeks later did I learn community? First, Yousef 
what Yousef and his family re­asked me to tell what I saw to 
ally suffered. the people back home in the 
Only July 4, 1988 while the United States. He realizes that majority of Americans were the people of the United States celebrating with firecrackers, are generally pretty ignorant of Yousefs family suffered a ter­what is going on in the Middle rible injustice. Yousef was East; he wants the truth to be home with his widowed mother, known. Secondly, this week is his sister, and his grandparents Middle East week at No.tre when he heard the sound of Dame, and I want to share a many vehicles outside his personal experience of my last house. He went outside to see semester in Jerusalem. Thirdly what was happening. An Israeli as members of this university it soldier asked him where his is our responsibility to learn as brother Ibrahim was. Yousef much as we ean about areas of told the soldier that his brother injustice around the world. As was in prison already. (Ibrahim citizens of the lJnited States we was in prison for the third time have the ability to change injus­since the start of the uprising tice throughout the world ei­for alleged involvement in ille­ther through exercising our gal activity.) Then the soldier right to vote or JY participating showed Yousef an official mili­in the political system as a rep­tary order to demolish the resentative. And lastly, I tell family home and gave him 20 this story to encourage every­minutes to empty the house. one to pray for peace and an 
Because he lived in Bethlehem, end to the suffering of the a city heavily visited by tourists, Palestinians and Israelis. Yousef thought he would be safe from the Israeli policy of collective punishment, the Carl Loesch is a senior theol­practice of making families pay ogy and math maJor. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
that 35 percent of our scientists and engineers currently work on military-related projects. 
The military aspect of life at Notre Dame refleets and con­tributes to the high level of militarism in American society. To be sure. given that we live in a militaristic society and par­ticipate in an economy based on war, perhaps we should not be surprised that ROTC pays the way for a tenth of Notre Dame's undergraduate stu­dents. At the same time, we must acknowledge that ROTC money is qualitatively different from the scholarships and fi­nancial aid which allow other needy students to enroll here. Notre Dame's (official or unof­ficial?) policy of relying so heavily on ROTC has a tremen­dous impact on the lives of its students. This salient feature of the Notre Dame experience should not go unexamined. 
John Welle Associate Professor Romance Languages and Literatures Nov. 3, 1989 


~ ·~---. ::.---~ 
r~--------.-~~--~..~~~--~------------------~----------~--~~·--------­
THIS FALL'S N 

'Look Who's Talking' a hit 


 MUSIC Boathouse Blues Band, Theodore's, 10 p.m. -1 a.m. Robert Noll Blues Band, Center Street Blues Supper Club, 9:30 p.m. Hymn to St. Cecilia, Notre Dame Chorale concert, Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m. Blue light Special, Alumni Senior Club, 9 p.m.-2 a.m. Pre-Sweat ltchies, Duffy's, 1Op.m. ART Expo Roma, opening day for exhibit of student works from the 1988-89 Rome Studies Program. 5 p.m;, Architecture Building lobby. Exhibit runs through Nov. 17. ON CAMPUS Sorin Hall talent show, In front of Sorin Hall, 8:30 p.m. Obstacle course, Part of Greek Week festivities, South Quad, 4 p.m.  

 MUSIC Dance party, Theodore's, 10 p.m.-2 a.m. Robert Noll Blues Band, Center Street Blues Supper Club, 9:30p.m. Blue Light Special, Alumni Senior Club, 9 p.m.-2 a.m. Pre-Sweat ltchies with Barley Boys, McCormick's, 9p.m. ON CAMPUS Parents Weekend family buffet, South Dining Hall, 8:30-11 p.m. $5 per family or $2 per person. Includes performance by the Glee Club. OFF CAMPUS Festival of trees, Century Center, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.  
NOTRF n 11 ~E Friday "Say Anything," Engineering Auditorium, 8 & 10:15 p.m. "The Accused," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM "The Last Hurrah" Part of the "Experience the Palace" film series, Saturday at 7:30 p.m. UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "limit Up" 5:30, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. "In Country" 9:15p.m. "Second Sight" 5:10, 7:10 & 9:10p.m. "Shocker" 5:20, 7:35 & 9:50p.m. "Worth Winning" 5, 7:10 & 9:20 p.m. "An Innocent Man" 7 p.m. "Gross Anatomy" 5:30, 7:40, & 9:50p.m. "Romero" 5:20, 7:30 & 9:40 p.m. UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "When Harry Met Sally" 5:35, 7:40 & 9:45 p.m. ''Look Who's Talking" 5:35, 7:40 & 9:50p.m. "Phantom of the Opera" 5:45, 7:45 & 9:45 p.m.  

James (John Travolta) demonstrates a dance step for Mikey (Jason Schaller) in the romantic comedy , "Look Who's Talking." 
Mollie (Kirstie Alley ,) an unmarried working mother, starts to fall for James (John Travolta,) an easy­going cab driver, who she meets on route to the hospital to deliver her baby in" Look Who's Talking." 
ROBYN SIMMONS assistant accent editor 


II babies have a mind of their own, but how many ean say what's on their mind'? Baby Mikey has a lot 
to say, even if 

he is too young to speak. The 
thoughts of a one-year-old ex­
pressed through thr, voicr,-ovr,r 
talents of Bruce Willis steal the 
show in the new romantic com­
r,dy "Look Who's Talking." 
Th1~ movie opens with Mollie 
(Kirstie Alley) an accountant, 
who is having an affair with her 
client Albert (Georgn Segal,) 
who is a very married man. Al­
bert keeps promising he'llleave 
his wife as soon as she gets 
over her bulemia, and when 
Mollie becomes pregnant he 
keeps his promise and leaves 
his wife-for his interior deco­
rator. Albert explains to Mollie 
that he can't help support Mol­
lie or her unborn baby because 
he's going through "a selfish 
phase." 
Even in the womb, Mikey's mind is pretty active (even the sperm get a chance to speak their mind in this movie) as he's going through the various stages of fetal development. Through the "voice of Mikey," Willis does a outstanding job of bringing Mikey's character to life even before he is born. 
When Mollie finally goes into labor, the first person available to take her to the hospital is James (John Travolta) a rather likable cab driver. In a wild driving sequence that only Hol­lywood can dish up, James gets Mollie "safely" to the hospital, and he even accompanies Mollie into the dPiivery room. One of the funniest scenes in the movie is right beforn Mollie delivers, when Mikey reacts to the painkiller the doctor gives Mollie. 
James' interest in Mollie and lwr baby does not end with Mikey's birth. James bnconws Mikny's baby-sitlPr, and hn is clearly interested in Mollie. but MolliP is busy dating otlwr men in an dfort to find tlw pPrfect father for Mikey. Mikey, on the other hand, has already made 
... 

P'· ~ 
,-r 
-

up his mind-he wants James to be his daddy. Unfortunatdy, Mikey is unable to articulatn his feelings to the adults in his life. 
Apparently, Mikey isn't tlw only kid on the block who's "talking." In one seerw, Mollin takes Mikey for a stroll in downtown New York City, where Mikey gets a char1cn to try out his baby talk on tlw other kids in stroiiPrs. Travolta doesn't appear in this SPQUPJH'P, but lw should have, bncausP tlw song playing in the background is "Staying Aliv1~." 
Both Allny and Travolta arP good in tlwir rPspPrtiw roiPs, but tlw movie wouldn't lw rwarly as funny without tlw voien-owrs of Willis. Willis' dia­logue adds life to tlw moviP, making Mikny the real star of the movie. The result must have 
<-)" 
been intentional on the writPrs' part, because Mikny gets all of the best lines. The actors who portray Mikey at various stagns in his babyhood (from a fmv hours old to orw-ymtr-old) arP cute enough, but tlwy probably would not have b1~en as appeal­ing to tlw audiPnce if tlwy WPI'l' not backPd up by Willis' hu­morous n•nmrks. 
"Look Who's Talking" is not tlw first lilm to rPntPr around an infant. but it is tlw lirst moviP that triPs to seP things from a baby's point of viPw. It is doubtful that anyone will PWr lw abiP to tPII exactly what's going on in a baby's 'mind until tlw child IParns to spPak. hut tlw writPrs PvidPnlly had a lot of fun gtll'ssing, and tlw audiencP will also haw fun watching "Look Who's Talking." 


IRISH EXTRA 

Aug. 31 Sept. 16 Sept. 23 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 
Notre Dame (9-0) at Southern Methodist (2-6) 
Saturday, November 11, 1989 
12:10 p.m. in South Bend 
Sports Channel America WNDU-TV (Jack Nolan, Jeff Jeffers) Mutual Radio Network 
The game is sold out. 
Notre Dame leads 9-3 

ND 36, Virginia 13 ND 24, Michigan 19 ND 21, Michigan St. 13 ND 40, Purdue 7 ND 27, Stanford 17 ND 41, Air Force 27 ND 28, Southern Cal 24 ND 45, Pitt 7 ND 41, Navy 0 SMU at Penn State at Miami 

Sept. 2 
Sept. 16 
Sept. 23 
Sept. 30 
Oct. 14 
Oct. 21 
Oct. 28 
Nov. 4 
Nov. 11 
Nov. 18 
Dec. 2 
LAST WEEK 
Five Navy football coaches, six U.S. Presidents nd 26 years have come and gone since the 
idshipmen last found a way to defeat Notre 
arne. Notre Dame has played a school-record 21 
onsecutive football games without finding a ay to lose to anyone. The beat went on for both of those streaks 
aturday at Notre Dame Stadium, as Ricky 
atters' 134 yards led a 414-yard team rushing erformance that drove the top-ranked Fighting rish, 9-0, to a 41-0 shutout of the Middies. 
Notre Dame's victory, its first shutout of a earn in six years, left the Irish with a 53-9-1 dvantage in the all-time series between the two earns and left Navy coach Elliot Uzelac won­ering why the nation's longest intersectional 
ivalry had to continue. 
of Notre Dame's elder statesman, D'Juan Francisco. The Observer 1 Eric Bailey 
Francisco getting older, but still getting better
SMU SCHEDULE 
Said junior cornerback Todd Lyght, "We always give him a hard time because he's the oldest player on the team. We call him Grandad." Francisco, a fifth-year senior strong safety, has learned to take it all in stride. At 22, he is not the oldest player on the Notre Dame  "'We had some guys wno were al­ready on the (Notre Dame) team from Moeller, but people did not necessarily expect you to come here," said Fran­cisco. "I came up here to visit my brother a co11ple of timt1s, and I got to see what it was like here without them rolling out the red carpet for me.~  
football  team (that honor goes to  Francisco remembers just how much  
Pat Eilers, born Sept. 3, 1966). But  having an older brother on the team  
no player gets more ribbing about  helped him during his first year at  
his age.  school.  
"They tease me about it, but it's all in fun," said Francisco "It's positive. I love all these guys, and we're just having a good time." Age hasn't exactly caught up to Francisco, who ranks third in the team with three interceptions. In fact, hardly anyone is able to catch up with the Cincinnati native.  D'Juan Francisco  "We'd -really grown close at Moeller," said Francisco. "I knew he'd be here, and being able to play with him was a thrill. As a freshman, espedally first semester, I felt homesick, and he helped me go ;:Jlace!> off-campus like the mall and do things a lot of freshmen can't do right away,"  

Rice 35, SMU 6 SMU 31, Connecticut 30 Texas 45, SMU 13 TCU 28, SMU 10 Baylor 49, SMU 3 Houston 95, SMU 21 SMU 35, North Texas 9 Texas A&M 63, SMU 14 at Notre Dame Texas Tech at Arkansas 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

D'Juan Francisco has grown accustomed to taking the jokes from his teammates this year. "You know his uniform number represents his age," says one player, pointing to the No. 32 on Francisco's 
The older Francisco sibling also had come to Notre Dame, where he followed his former high school coach Gerry Faust. D'Juan Francisco says that the Moeller/Notre Dame connection did aot put too much pressure on his own college selection, but visits to see his older brother did hP-lp attract him to the Fighting Irish. 
jersey. 

Francisco ran a 4.35 in the 40 last spring, one year after his 4.33 time made him the fastest player on the 1988 national championship squad. 
Notre Dame secondary coach Chuck Heater is quite aware of how that speed benefits Francisco's play. 
"He gives you some opportunities on coverage that you wouldn't normally have because safeties don't usually run that fast," said Heater. 
Francisco actually had come to Notre Dame as a run­ning back after breaking the Moeller High School records for rushing yards in a season (1,658) and ca­reer (4,032). He broke the marks that had been set just a couple of years earlier by his brother Hiawatha. 
Francisco's brother, who spent much of his Notre Dame career hampered by knee injuries, may have pro­vided even more help in another area, After seeing his older brother move from tailback to the defensive back­field, D'Juan Francisco knew the same thing could hap­pen to him. 
"I anticipated it in a sense," the younger Francisco said of his own move to the defense. "(Hiawathal was a Mr. Everything in high school, :md when he switched po­sitions, I knew anything could happen." 
After a freshman season that saw him carr.y the ball 18 times for 84 yards, D'Juan Francisco moved to the secondary the spring before his sophomore season. 
see D'JUAN I page 4 

IRISH EXTRA 
Friday, November 10, 1989 
The Game ... 
By KEN TYSIAC SMU Offense Sports Writer vs. Notre Dame Defense 
The Mustangs from SMU will SMU quarterback Mike 
ride into town Saturday to see Homo, a redshirt freshman, has 
if they can prevent Lou 11ohz's had quite a bit of success 
Fighting Irish football squad throwing the football this year. 
from notching a school record To date he has completed 189 
22nd straight vir.tory at Notre of :H2 passes for a total of 
Dame Stadium. 2,061 yards. 
Before they became the first "I think that Mike Homo is 
football team to be repri­really and truly going to be 
manded for rules violations outstanding," says Holtz, "lie 
with the NCAA's dreaded Death has a quick release and a 
Penalty, the Mustangs wern a strong arm. I don't think 
Southern powerhouse. Now, there's any question they're go­
they are 2-6 and scheduling ing to throw the ball against 
teams like Connecticut and us. They'll throw the ball 55 or 
North Texas. Ntwertheless, 60 times, and they'll throw for 
lloltz has oncP again managed some yardage-they have 
to make his overmatched oppo­against everybody else." 
nents sound like they are actu­Homo spreads the ball out 
ally a decent football team. pretty evenly among his re­
''I've never gone into a foot­ceivers. Four players have ball game where we were such caught at least 30 passes for an overwhelming favorite," the Mustangs, including senior concedes Holtz, "Hut that co-captain Mitchell Gliebcr, a doesn't mean much to me. I'm wide receiver who has hauled in not going to insult your intelli­37 receptions for 432 yards. gence, that's not my intention, When the Mustangs aren't it's just that any timP you play passing the ball, they will most an opponent, you always get likely hand off to freshman scared. and you get nervous. running back Kevin Love. Love, 
"There's no doubt that SMU who has rushed 79 times for 
has good young athletes. They 290 yards and three touch­
play hard, they're well coached, downs, has a bruised shoulder 
and I think they're going to be but is expected to start against 
an outstanding football team in the Irish. 
the future." Junior Michael Bowen will 
That's right, Lou. in the fu­most likely return kickoffs and ture, they will be a good foot­punts for SMU. Bowen, who led ball team. Hight now. however, the Mustangs in rushing, they are setting records for fu­receiving, kickoff return and tility. In a 95-21 loss to Hous­punt return yardage last week 
ton on October 21, the Mus­against Texas A&M, averages tangs gave up an NCAA reeord 8.8 yards per punt return and 
1.021 total yards. Houston's 22.6 yards per kickoff return. 
lleisman-hopeful quarterback Matt Lomenick will do all of Andre Ware completed 25 of 41 the placekicking for the Ponies. passes in the first half of that Lomenick has converted six out game for 517 yards, obliterat­of 10 field goals this year, the ing the old NCAA mark for longest being a 43-yarder passing yardage in a half. The against TCU on September 30. previous record, held by Jim Holtz's defensive troops are McMahon, was 372 yards. nursing quite a few bumps and 
Notre Dame offered to let bruises this week. Although se­nior cornerback Stan Smagala
;Mu back out of this game, but will return to the lineup and.;Mu officials refused. Mustang may start. the Irish are short~oach Forrest Gregg. who once on healthy bodies at linebacker.
Jiloted the Green Bay Packers, Junior Donn Grimm, who isNill try to extract something currently second on the team)OSitive from the carnage with 46 tackles, has a bad hipNhich is sure to result from and may sit out the game. 
this contest. 
If Grimm can't play, fresh­"It will be a great experience man Nick Smith will have tofor our kids playing against the start in his place becausertumber one team in the na­Grimm's backup, sophomoretion," says Gregg, "It will be Michael Smalls, is also out withmmething they'll always re­an injury. As if Notre Dame'smember. I think they'll learn a linebacking woes weren't badlot. Playing Notre Dame in enough, Holtz says that seniorSouth Bend is something a lot co-captain Ned Bolcar is "really of our kids probably never banged up," but should start.

dreamed would happen to 
The Irish secondary has re­them. From that standpoint, it bounderl to silence critks whocan be a positive experience." 

PLAYERS TO WATCt-1 
-
.said that they weren't playing 
up to their potential earlier in 
the year in victories over Michi­
gan State and Stanford. All­
American candidate Todd 
Lyght, whom Holtz calls "the 
most talented defensive back 
I've ever been around," leads 
Notre Dame with eight inter­
ceptions, while senior free 
safety Pat Terrell has six. 
Outland Trophy candidate 
Chris Zorich, a 6-1, 268 pound 
junior, anchors the Irish defen­
sive line. which also features 6­
7 human flyswatter Jeff Aim. 
Aim has used his big paws to 
knock down six passes this 
season, and he also has re­
turned an interception for a 
touchdown. Sophomore defen­
sive end Devon McDonald will 
miss the game with a knee in­
jury. 
Freshman Craig Hentrich will 

handle both the punting and 
kicking chores for the Irish. 
Hentrich averages 45.7 yards 
per punt and has connected on 
8-15 field goals this season. 
Notre Dame Offense 
vs. 
SMUDefense 

The youth and inexperience of 
the Mustangs is especially evi­
dent on defense, where they 
start nine freshmen. This is al­
most an entirely homegrown 
unit, as 10 of the 11 starters 
hail from the state of Texas. 
These lads from the Lone Star State have not had much success this season. They have allowed an average of 44 points and 542 yards per contest en route to losing six of their first eight games. 
Linebacker Bill Kiely and free safety Corey Brabham lead the team in tackles with 68 and 6 7, respectively. Kiely also shares the team lead in interceptions with reserve safety Ron Hagan. They have picked off two passes apiece. 
The Mustangs enter this game remarkably free from in­juries. Cornerback Marcus Malonson (bruised lower leg) is their only casualty, and will probably be replaced by fellow freshman Mark Martinez. 
Punter Casey Clyce has been one of the bright spots for SMU, averaging 38.3 yards on 49 punts to date. 
The Mustangs will have their hands full with the Irish of­fense. Holtz can be expected to run the ball on almost every down in order to keep the clock moving and get this one over with. For the season, Notre Dame has gone to the ground on almost 80 percent of their plays from scrimmage. 

Junior Ricky Watters has done a lot of damage coming out of the backfield lately. He exploded for a career best 13 7 yards on nine carries last week against Navy and has run with increased confidence and au­thority as the season has pro­gressed. Dependable senior An­thony Johnson (105 rushes, 433 yards) will start at fullback. 
Heisman candidate Tony Rice will quarterback the Irish at­tack. Rice has completed just 51 of his 104 pass attempts this year, but leads all Notre Dame rushers with 653 yards on 121 carries. When he does get the opportunity to throw the ball, Rice's favorite re­ceivers are speedy flanker Haghib Ismail (20 catches, 204 yards), and powerful tight end Derek Brown (1 0 receptions, 167 yards). 
Ismail, a sophomore from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, will also handle kickoff returns for the Irish. Ismail leads the NCAA with an average of 35.6 yards per kickoff return, and returned two kickoffs for touchdowns in a 24-19 victory over Michigan in Ann Arbor on September 16. Ismail and Wat­ters will most likely share the punt returning duties for Holtz's squad. 
The offensive line is healthy entering this contest, and will feature three graduating se­niors (tackles Mike Brennan and Dean Brown, and guard Tim Grunhard) performing in their last game at Notre Dame Stadium. 






Forrest Gregg BIUI<illr Michael Bowen
MlkeRomo

Coach UL8 WR/RB
QB 

Formerly with the Green Bay Kiely has a team-high 68 Bowen, a junior, returned to
The mainstay of the Mustang

Packers, Gregg has taken on A senior co-captain, Gleiber tackles on the season, with SMU after a year at Georgia.
offense, Romo threw for 450

the task of resurrecting the caught a game-high six one sack and three tackles He plays all over the field for 
yards against North Texas. A

SMU program. He is a member passes last week against for loss. 44 have been unas­the Irish, he is second on the
freshman, he has passed for

of the Pro Football Hall of Texas A&M to raise his team­sisted. He is also tied for the team in receptions and tops in 
over 2000 yards this season.

Fame. leading total to 37. team lead in interceptions punt and kickoff returns. with two. 

IRISH EXTRA 
November 10, 1989 

You can bet on it: 
Smagala returns to get his interception 
Almost, but not quite: Mustangs edge Irish in '84 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
Early in the season, the de­fensive backs on the Notre Dame football team had a wa­ger with each other. Whoever intercepted a pass on a given weekend would be treated to dinner after the game by the other members of the sec­ondary. 
Stan Smagala is sure glad that bet was put on the back burner. 
''I'd have paid for a lot of dinners by now if the bet was still on," he laughs, "Because the rest of the guys all have quite a few interceptions and I don't have my first pick-off yet." 
Although the senior corner­back from Burbank, Illinois has not picked off any passes, he has been a steady performer all year in the Irish secondary. 
;. Smagala has punished many an 
' enemy receiver in his years un­der Lou Holtz's tutelage. Sma­gala will be on the Notre Dame field for the last time as a 
---·-
player Saturday. "It's already sunk in for me, and it's really not that big a deal." says Smagala, 'Til miss it, but we have three more games after SMU, and I think I'll enjoy it no matter where we play." Smagala is especially anxious to play this week because he has missed the last two weeks with a hip injury suffered late in the game against USC. On the critical fourth down play from the Irish seven yard line, 
The Observer I Andrew Moskop 

quarterback Todd Marinovich Stan Smagala, eying the opposition's offense. threw the ball in Smagala's di­
rection. 


By VIC LOMBARDI 
Sports Writer 
Sure, they're considered schedule patsies nowadays. But it wasn't too long ago when the 
Time Capsule 
Southern Methodist football team gave Notre Dame a run for its money .. 
After the old Pony Express backfield (Eric Dickerson and Craig James) migrated to the NFL in the early 1980's, the Mustangs still fielded some pretty talented football teams. 
TAILBACK 
12 Ricky Watters · 4 Dorsey Levens 
MUSTANG
OFFENSE
FULLBACK 22 Anthony Johnson · 5 Rodney Culver SPLITEND 
13 Pat Eilers QUARTERBACK 14 Ray Griggs 

TIGHT END TACKLE a 9 Tony ~1ce 86 Derek Brown 64 Mike Brennan ~ 3 R1ck Mlrer 
' 

43Rod;. J."J:'' ' 
.  GUARD  CENTER  
52 Tim Ryan  55 Mike Heldt  
56 Ted Healy  76 Gene McGuire  

INSIDE LINEBACKER 42 Bill Kiely 47 Drew Randall 
CORNERBACK .
~: 
4 Richie Butler · ~ • 
28 Marcello Simmons FREE SAFETY :<J!D · .;.
40 Cary Brabham . ·· ·· 12 Ron Hagan ·). 
Of course, back then SMU stood for Slip da Money Under da table-indicative of the Mustang's numerous recruiting violations. 
But the Mustangs still managed to win big games. 
The Mustangs fended off a late Notre Dame rally in the 1984 Aloha Bowl to defeat the Irish 27-20 before 41,000 fans in balmy Honolulu, Hawaii. 
The story was all too familiar for Irish fans: The poised young quarterback mounts a late-desperation drive to set-up the game-winning touchdown. But when Steve Beuerlein's pass 
INSIDE LINEBACKER INSIDE LINj:BACKER ~ ~ INSIDE LINEBACKER 20 Jason Bednarz 

36 Donn Gnmm 47 Ned Bolcar 
, .,,,,.,."....... 53 Stephen Thomas 

30 Nick Smith 48 Michael Smalls 
...
··. i4[, 
CORNERBACK • 1 Todd Lyght A ,. ;~.. CORNERBACK

.. 

19 Shawn Davis .; . ' STRONG SAFETY 9 Marcus Malonson 
FREE SAFETY bA 
. ' . . 7 Malcolm Borlenghi 1 Mark Martinez 
15 Pat Terrell U 
· 12 Ron Hagan 

27 George Poorman 
TACKLE ~ 
71 Dean Brown . ' 

I 73 Curtis Eldridge 
,.J~~""' 
< 
GUARD 

WIDE RECEIVER GUARD 62 Marty Solombrino GUARD 75 Tim Grunhard 
83 Mitchell Glieber 57 Oscar Rosales 67 Matt Hart 
74 Mirko Jurkovic 

13 Greg Ballard 60 Joe Wells 68 Robby Risko NOSE TACKLE
MUSTANG 
IRISH DEFENSE 
50 Chris Zorich 

TACKLE 99 Troy Ridgley TACKLE 93 Bob Dahl 90JeffAim 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 
DEFENSE 
DEFENSIVE END 

92 :gFlan:J ~ ~ 8:;J Joi;~~~;~~w~~~wski
96 Mike Ostos 7 Andre Jones 51 Mike Henderson 98 Shawn Smith 
~~--~ 

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 85EncSimlen 
flew past the outstretched hands of flanker Milt Jackson on the last play of the game, the classic comeback was ruined. 
The Mustang's option-oriented attack featured mobile quarterback Don King and the speedy tailback tandem of Reggie Dupard and Jeff Atkins. Altogether, the backfield allotted for 345 total yards, as both Dupard and Atkins rushed for more than 100 yards each against the Irish. 
Southern Methodist took an early 14-0 lead on its first two possessions. The Ponies 

Stan Smagala 
''I'm not sure exactly how I did it, but on that play I dove for the ball, and I might have run into Pat (Terrell), but I'm not sure exactly what hap­pened." 
No matter what happened to Smagala, he can take some so­lace in the fact that the pass was broken up and the fragile 28-24 Notre Dame lead was preserved. Now he is preparing to make a triumphant return against SMU, and fellow cornerback Todd Lyght says that his defensive backfield mate will be ready to go against the Mustangs. 
"Stan has recovered form his 
injury really well," says Lyght, 
"He appears to be in great 
shape and ready to play some 
ball. Stan just has outstanding 
speed and is incredibly strong 
for his size. His unusual combi­
nation of speed, strength, size 
and quickness makes him one 
of the best defensive backs in 
the nation." 
With this in mind, Smagala 
marched 78 yards in 10 plays to jump on the scoreboard on the opening drive. Atkins, the eventual offensive MVP, crossed the goal line on a seven-yard run. 
The next time they had the ball, the Mustangs drove 80 yards in 14 plays to set-up a 21-yard touchdown toss from King to Cobby Morrison. 
Two possessions. Two touchdowns. 
But after Tim Brown took the ensuing kickoff 53 yards to the SMU 47, the Irish offense went to work. Tailback Allen Pinkett (24 carries for 136 yards) hammered the ball to the Pony 17 before splitting the seam on a 17-yard touchdown pass from Beuerlein. That cut the deficit to 14-7. 
After the defense held, the Irish put three more points on the board with a 51-yard field goal by John Carney (the longest of his career and an Aloha Bowl record). But SMU's Brandy Brownlee countered with a 47-yarder just before the first-half whistle to make it 17­10. 
The Notre Dame defense shut 
. TACKLE 
·· 74 Kyle 79 Trey 
hopes NFL scouts are watching him in his senior season. Whereas NFL contracts are a near certainty for such players as Anthony Johnson, Pat Ter­rell, and Ned Bolcar, Smagala seems to realize that there is a possibility that he won't be drafted. 
"I hope I have the opportu­nity to play for some teams after I graduate," he says, "But I guess I'll have to wait for draft day to find out. If I don't get drafted, I plan to graduate with my business degree, so I'll have that to fall back on." 
But for the time being, Sma­gala will concentrate on SMU. Even though SMU comes into Notre Dame Stadium as a 56­point underdog, Smagala says he and his teammates will not take the Mustangs lightly at all. 
"Actually, our practices have been very difficult this week," he says, "Their quarterback (Mike Romo) is rank~d very highly in terms of completion percentage. In the secondary we're looking to see if we can get some big hits." 
And some interceptions? 
"Definitely. I hope I get the opportunity to pick one off this Saturday." 
SMU is expected to throw the ball early and often, so maybe Smagala will get his wish. 
"They (the Mustangs) have a similar attack to the one em­ployed by Miami, so we'll use this game to prepare for the Hurricanes," says Lyght, "In the secondary we'll look at it as a chance to break on the ball and create some turnovers." 
And in Stan Smagala's case, wriggle off the hook in the in­terception contest. 

IRISH EXTRA 
Friday, November 10, 1989 

IRISH STATS said Lyght. "He's not one to give 
speeches, but one to lead by example

D'Juan
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP 
Belles 11 60 5.4 1 13 
through his play on and off the field."

TOTAL OFFENSE 3526 2707 Brooks 13 45 3.5 0 11 
Total Plays 635 624 Boyd 6 36 6.0 0 13 continued from page 1 Heater also likes what he's seen from Yards per Play 5.7 4.3 Mihalko 9 35 3.9 0 7 Francisco.
Even then, he saw most of his playing
30 3.3 11
Yards per Game 391.7 300.7 Mirer 9 0 "He's one of our most consistent
time come on special teams. Francisco
PENAL TIES-YARDS 41-349 45-340 Setzer 12 26 2.2 0 11 
players," Heater said. "He does his job

FUMBLES-LOST 15-12 13-13 Jarrell 2 24 12.0 0 21 finally became something of a regular 
every day and always has a funny line.

TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 186 157 Eilers 3 13 4.3 0 8 last season at cornerback. By Rushing 141 57 Graham 3 8 2.7 0 5 He keeps everyone really loose." 
Francisco started two games and 
By Passing 40 88 McNamara 1 1 1.0 1 1 
played a big role in the secondary, There have been times this season
By Penalty 5 12 R.Griggs 2 0 0.0 0 2 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV. 56-122 52-137 •NO 503 2527 5.0 32 53 backing up Todd Lyght. when the defensive backs have needed % .459 .380 Opp. 317 942 3.0 2 36 In his fifth year, Francisco finally has somebody to keep them loose. After POSSESSION TIME 283:49 256:11 PASSING C A % YOS TO INT LG a starting assignment, following an­Stanford, Air Force and USC combined 
Per Game 31:54 28:06 
Rice 51 104 .490 886 2 6 52 other position switch. Francisco is for 921 passing yards against Notre SCORING TO R P R PA FG TP Mirer 12 26 .462 105 0 1 18 
playing strong safety to replace the Dame, the Irish secondary received 
Johnson 11 9 2 0 0-0 0-0 66 Graham 1 2 .500 8 0 0 8 
8-15 56 graduated George Streeter. heavy criticism. 
Hentrich o 0 0 0 32-33 NO 64 132 .485 999 2 7 52 
Watters 8 8 0 0 0-0 0-0 48 Opp. 176 307 .5731765 14 20 61 Because he had not seen too much "A lot of people don't understand that Rice 5 5 0 0 1-2 0-0 32 RECEIVING tel YOS AVG TO LG game duty until last season, Francisco sometimes we're not trying to put pres­Ismail 5 2 0 3 0-0 0-0 30 Ismail 20 424 21.2 0 52 
does not really think of himself as an sure on the quarterback or maybe we're 
Culver 5 5 0 0 0-0 0-0 30 Brown 10 167 16.7 0 38 
2-2 9 experienced leader in the secondary. in a zone and they see something," said 
Hackett 0 0 0 0 3-4 Watters 9 142 15.87 0 32 
Aim 1 0 0 1 0-0 0-0 6 Brown 8 147 18.3 0 38 "As far as on the field, I'm probably Francisco. "We're facing a lot of great 
Belles 1 1 0 0 0-0 0-0 6 Johnson 6 72 12.0 2 27 the one with the least experience out quarterbacks and great receivers." Levens 1 1 0 0 0-0 0-0 6 Eilers 4 43 10.7 0 20 
there, so they help me," said Francisco. In the last two games, Notre Dame 
McNamara 1 1 0 0 0-0 0-0 6 Jarrell 3 28 9.3 0 16 
0-0 6 The other defensive backs do not has intercepted five passes and allowed
Terrell 1 0 0 1 0-0 Belles 3 28 9.3 0 16 NO 39 32 2 5 36-39 10-17303 I. Smith 2 24 12.0 0 18 quite see it that way. an average of just 146 passing yards 
Opp. 12 2 10 0 8-12 5-5 96 Levens 2 16 8.0 0 12 "He's been around the program when per contest. RUSHING tel YOS AVG TO LG Mihalko 2 11 5.5 0 6 
it lost, and he always reminds us that Maybe Francisco and the secondary
Rice 121 653 5.4 5 38 Pollard 1 28 28.0 0 28 
any team is capable of knocking us off," will have the last laugh aftnr all. 
Watters 87 562 6.5 8 53 T. Smith 1 8 8.0 0 8 Johnson 105 433 4.1 9 35 R. Griggs 1 7 7.0 0 7 Ismail 49 330 6.7 2 50 Carney's 31-yard field goal cut the
NO 64 999 15.6 2 52
Culver 54 209 3.9 5 15 Opp. 176 1765 10.0 14 61 deficit to seven. Levens 16 68 4.3 1 21 
SMU 
The Irish got the ball back with 2:42 continued from page 3 left on the clock. All the attention was
MUSTANG STATS 
down the Mustang's option attark for on Beuerlein. TEAM STATISTICS SMU OPP Ramo 59 -176 -3.0 0 9 most of the third period, forcing them Things looked good at first. Beuerlein SMU 233 427 1.8 7 33 to punt on their first three possessions. moved the Irish from their own 23 all 
TOTAL OFFENSE 2196 4335 Opp. 348 1941 5.6 ?n S4 
Gerry Faust's squad tied the contest the way down to the SMU 17 with a
Total Plays 617 609 PASSING C A % YOS TO INT LG 
Yards per Play 4.2 7.1 when Mark Brooks capped a 49-yard barrage of passes to such reliable tar­
Ramo 189 342.553 2061 10 13 50 
Yards per Game 324.5 541.9 Freiburger 1 2 27.444 59 0 1 14 drive with an 11-yard touchdown jaunt gets as Mark Bavaro, .Joe Howard and 
PENAL TIES-YARDS 48-463 83-668 Clyce 7 14 7 .500 0 1 13 late in the quarter. Tim Brown. lie threw 11 passes in onlyFl IMBLES-LOST 18-10 23-7 .000 0 1 0
Wolf 1 0 0 But the Mustangs stormed right back 2:19.
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 143 196 SMU 208 384.542 2169 10 16 50 
with a commanding, 19-play drive that On second and nine with the clock
By Rushing 31 97 Opp. 156 261 .590 2394 27 7 87 
By Passing 100 89 exhausted more than seven minutes off ticking away, Beucrlein's throw for
RECEIVING tel YOS AVG TO LG
By Penalty 12 10 Gleiber 37 432 11.7 1 43 the clock. Brownlee's 30-yarder gave Howard near the goal line caught him 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV. 50-138 46-104 
Bowen 33 352 10.7 1 33 the Ponies a three-point advantage with leaning the wrong way. On third down,
% .362 .442 
Wolf 31 365 11.8 2 41 11 :47 remaining in the game. Beucrlein's toss to Brown was tipped
POSSESSION TIME 233:42 236:18 
Beard 31 318 10.6 1 34
AVG 30:28 29:32 After the Irish failed to move the ball, away by SMU safety Tim Green. On the
Bergfeld 22 252 11.5 4 38 
RUSHING tel YOS AVG TO LG the Mustangs stampeded 50 yards in final desperation play, Beuerlein
R.Hill 12 138 11.5 0 26
290 3.7 3 33

Love 79 Love 11 54 4.9 0 19 seven straight running plays to score serambled to his right and found Jack­
lson 27 82 3.0 0 18 
Ballard 7 35 5.0 1 12 what appeared to be the clinching son open in the endzone. He fired away.
Wolf 24 19 3.0 4 9 lson 7 9 1.3 0 7
O.Thompson 1 9 49 2.6 0 8 touchdown. Dupard plunged in from The ball-and the game-slipped past
Knight 5 76 15.2 0 50
Bowen 8 46 5.8 0 17 Harraman 4 27 6.8 0 13 two yards out to make it 27-17 at the the outstretched hands of .Jackson with 25 4.2 0 13
Kidd 6 Ware 4 91 22.8 0 35 6:13 mark. 23 seconds remaining.
R.Hill 5 22 4.4 0 15 O.Thompson 2 2 
1.0 0 3 The Irish countered with a ground
Clyce 3 18 6.0 0 17 B.Lovetl 1 11 11.0 0 11
6 6.0 0 6 game of their own, rushing nine
N1abel 1 Kidd 1 8 8.0 0 8 
Freiburger 2 -2 -1.0 0 3 Niabet 1 -1 1.0 0 -1 straight times in a 2:57 period before 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE SMU DEFENSE SMU OFFENSE 
SE 13 Pat Ellon 5-11 193 Sr. RE 37 Scott Kowalkl<owMI 6-2 226 .... LE 99 Kenny Rea 6-2 270 Fr. \lEI 15 Andy Bergfeld 6-3 180 Fr. 14 Ray Gnggs 6-3 180 Fr. 85 Eric Simien 6-3 226 Fr. 85 Bruce Van Derven 6-8 245 Fr. 10 Stmeon Knighl 6-1 175 Fr. 
OT 64 Mike Brennan 6-5 260 Sr. LT 93 Bob Dahl 6-5 263 .... NT 64 Steve Benottl 6-1 235 Fr. FIB 33 Jason Wolf 6-0 195 Fr. 
53 Winston Sandn 6-4 275 Jr. 92 Bryan Flannery 6-3 253 Sr. 45 Geoff King 5-10 220 Fr. 23 Rongea Hill 5-10 170 Fr. 00 52 Tim Ryan 6-4 259 .... NT 50 Chrta Zorich 6-1 268 .... RE 98 Uzo Dkeke 6-1 250 Fr. LT 74 Kyle Carroll 6-4 275 Fr. 
56 Ted Healy 6-4 265 Sr. 99 Troy Ridgley 6-4 250 So. 85 Bruce Van Derven 6-3 245 Fr. 79 Trey Cowan 6-8 285 Fr. c 55 Mike Heldt 6·4 265 .... RT 90 Jell Am 6-7 270 Sr. lOLB 46 Chris Collins 6-3 220 Fr. LG 67 Man Hart 6-3 270 Fr. 76 Gene McGuire 6-5 259 So. 81 Eric Jones 6-6 225 Fr. 84 Darren Harringlon 6-4 220 Fr. 68 Robby Risko 6-4 260 Fr 
TG 75 Tim GnJnherd 6-3 292 Sr. DE 7 Andre .Jones 6-4 215 .... LL8 42 BIH Kiely 6-0 230 Fr. C 52 Matt Wisenbaker 6-2 260 Fr. 74 Mirl<o Jurt<Ovic 6-5 279 So. 98 Shawn Smith 6-3 206 Fr. 4 7 Drew Randall 6-3 230 fr. 62 Marty Solombrino 6-4 255 Fr. TT 71 Dean Brown 6-3 291 Sr. B.B 36 DomGrtrMI 6-2 231 .... RI.B 20 Jason Bednarz 6-2 220 Fr. R3 57 oacar Rosales 5-11 255 So. 
73 Justin Hall 6-3 296 So. 30 Nick Smith 6-3 225 Fr. 53 Stephen Thomas 6-1 220 Fr. 60 Joe Wells 6-5 265 Fr 'IE 85 o.ni<Brown 6-7 235 So. ....a 47 Ned Bolcar 6-2 229 Sr. ROI..B96 MlkeOstos 6-1 210 Fr. RT 75 Tre Giller 6-6 275 .... 43 Rod West 6-3 246 Sr. 48 Mtchael Smalls 6-3 223 So. 51 Mike Henderson 6-2 200 Fr. 73 Curtis Eldridge 6-5 260 Fr. 
Cll 9 Tony Rice 
6-1 200 Sr. FCB 1 Todd lyght 6-1 181 So. LCB 4 Riehle Butler 5-11 170 Fr. \lEI 17 Michael Bowen 5-9 180 .... 
3 Rick Mirer 6-3 205 Fr. 19 Shawn Davia 6-0 181 So. 28 Marcello Simmons 6-1 175 Fr. 2 Korey Bears 6-1 175 Fr. Rl 22 AnthOny Joh,.,., 6-0 220 Sr. SCB 21 Rod Smith 6-1 183 So. RC8 9 Marcus Mafonson 5-8 160 Fr. \lEI 83 Mitchell Gll-6-0 180 Sr. 
5 Rodney Culver 6-0 219 So. 19 Shawn Davis 6-0 181 So. Mark Martinez 6-1 175 Fr. 13 Greg Ballard 6-4 195 Fr 18 12 Ricky W8ltenl 6-2 199 .... ss 32 D'Juan Francisco 5-11 182 Sr. S S 7 Malcolm Borlenghl 6-3 195 So. Cll 5 Mike Romo 6-0 185 Fr. 4 Dorsey Levens 6-2 202 Fr. 26 Greg Davis 6-1 198 Jr. 12 Ron Hagan 6-0 185 Fr. 11 Casey Clyce 5-11 185 Fr Fl 25 Raghlb lwnall 5-10 175 So. FS 15 Pat T811'1111 6-0 1115 Sr. FS 40 Cary Brabham 6-1 195 Fr. SB 34 Kevin Love 6-2 215 Fr. Steve Belies 6-4 217 Sr. 27 George PC!Orman 6-2 191 So. 12 Ron Hagan 6·0 185 Fr. 43 Sluart lson 5-11 210 Fr.
8 K 28 Craig Hentrlch 6-1 175 Fr. p 28 Cralgltlnlrlltl 8-1 175 Fr. P 11 Caey Clyce 5-11 185 Fr. 18 Btliy Hackett 6-1 194 Jr. 16 Jim Sexton 6-0 183 .... I 4 Ryan Lawson 6-2 175 Fr. 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS . . 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some well­known figure in the Notre Dame com­munity predict the outcomes of the week's major college football games. 

t 

Records are compiled as to how each MOly Mllhonev 
GregGun.y 

Sieve a.tnA·I"I!IIIIIR 
Heather Atkinson
Theresa Kelly Dana Schaltz Marty Strasen
Assistant Assistant
person does against the spread. In Associate SMC
Sports Editor Random Student Guest Celebrity Sports Editor
other words, it isn't enough to pick Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor 
49-48-1 49-35 44-53-1
55-42-1 52-45-1 51-46-1 47-50-1
the winner of a given game. The per­
.495 .583 .454 
son must pick the winner and give the .567 .536 .528 .485
Last week: Last week: Last week: 
Last Week: Last week: Last week: Last week: 
underdog points. 
9-4-1 4-9-1 7-6-1
8-5-1 6-7-1 

8-5-1 5-8-1
DUKE 3 over N.Carolina St. Wolfpack Wallpack Blue Oevus Wolfpack Wolfpack Blue Devils Wallpack Georgia pick'em at FLORIDA Gators Bulldogs Gators Gators Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Penn Sl 7 over MARYLAND Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Terrapins Nittany Lions Nittany Lions OHIO STATE 6.5 over Iowa Buckeyes Buckeyes Hawkeyes Buckeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Miami 9 over PITT Hurricanes Panthers Panthers Hurricanes Panthers Hurricanes Hurricanes Arkansas 12.5 over Baylor Razorbacks Razorbacks Bears Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Bears BYU 2.5 over Air Force Falcons Falcons Cougars Falcons Cougars Falcons Cougars 
.. Michigan 2.5 over ILLINOIS Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Colorado 21.5 over OKLAHOMA ST. Buffaloes Cowboys Cowboys Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Cowboys Southern Cal6 over ARIZONA Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Wildcats Trojans TrojansHOUSTON 20.5 over Texas Cougars Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Cougars Longhorns LonghornsOregon 1.5 over UCLA Ducks Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins· Bruins Alabama 4 over LSU Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tfde Crimson Tide Tigers Crimson Tide Crimson Tide NOTRE DAME 53 over S.Methodist Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs MustanQs Irish Irish Irish 

.....~-~-------------~ ~~--------------_,..~-~--~-~-~--------·--·1 page 13 
W FLICKS AND TUNES 
A strong new LP from Kate Bush 
ALISON COCKS accent writer 
K 
atn Bush succnssfully 
combinns hnr 
original musical 
stvln with tlw 
in1agination of a tiction writPr onen again in lwr latest album rPIPasP. ThP Snn­sual World. 
Four yPars havP passPd sincP tlw rPIPasP of lwr grPatnst hits album. Tlw WholP Storv. tinw slw spnnt compiling nuttPrial for lwr nnw album. ThP rPstdt is a coiiPction of powPrful songs charartPrizPd by Bush's four octavP soprano which joins with lwr lyrics to Pvokn strong Pmotions in lwr listmwrs. 
IIPr songs. rdnrred to by Bush as short storins. pwsnnt nnw scnnarios nach time. Her rlnvPr combinations of lyrics and words rrnatP vivid imagns. 
ThP titiP track is. to say tlw lnast. sndurtive. Basnd on a soliloquy from Jam1~s Joyce's "Ulysses," it tPils the erotic story of a woman's expnrienr.e with hPr lover. It sNs the tmw for tlw album whir.h is a telling Pxploration of mature human rnlationships and emotions. 
"llnads We're Dancing," a prmetrating, fast tune tells the story of a young girl in 1939 who meets a snductive man at a dance. She is shocked the next morning when she reads the papPr to discover her charming nnw friPnd is i\doii'Jiitler. "Tlwy say tlw Devil is a r.harm­
ing man/And just like you I bet lw can dall(~n." accuses Bush in hPr lyrics. 
Bush also addmsses anger and its expression in "Between a Man and a Woman" and "Love and Anger." ller tone is furious. lwr rhythm fast as she confronts an unwanted inter­loper in "Between a Man and a Woman" and struggles to re­lease pent-up fury in "Love and Anger." 
Tracks such as "Deeper Un­derstanding," about a lonely person who finds solace in the voice console of a r.omputer, "The Fog," whose imagery de­picts loss of innocence in the transition from childhood to independnnce,and thetende~ rngret-lilled "This Woman's Work," an expression of a man's tumult of emotions as he rnalizcs his wife might be 


'Baker Boys' offers steam but no depth 
DEBBIE CHARLESWORTH accent writer 
Fabulous Baknr Boys" opPnsin
''T lw 
an empty 
smokP­IiiiPd loungP with two mPn playing on two grand pianos. Ttw two nwn . .Jpf'f' and Bnau BridgPs, portray "Tiw Fabulous BakPr Boys." a chPPsy piano ar.t wPdgPd in nwdiorrity. This act surviws through tlw goodwill of nightclub and hotPl mnwrs and on tPn yPars of Pndurancn in tlw busirwss. Their act mPrPiy providns background noisn at dubs wlwrP thn main attPntion of thn patrons is for.usnd on bad jokPs, eh1~ap booze and propositions. 
Although the art is tolerable at bnst. tlw movi1~ fenbly at­tnmpts to show the audience that .Jpf'f' Bridg1~s is in fact a sti­llml gnnius. OvPrshadowed by his oldnr brothpr's prar.tiral in­stinct. the younger Bridgns re­mains in thP rut of the Fabulous Baknr Boys. instpad of fostering his supposPd musical grnius. lkau Bridgns. the practical brotlwr. der.ides a female sing1~r will add glamour to their failing and bland act. The art introduces Michelle Pfeiffpr who plays Susie Diamond. the panacea for the troubled Bak£'r Boys. Thn sir.kly act soars to rww !wights with tlw hot addi­tion of Pfniffer flesh. 
Susie Diamond portrays a hardened street girl who is supposed to sing well, however. lwr sultry voice and lip-licking docs not equal talent. just sexi­ness. Fortunately for the act. 

Pfeiffer wears dresses that show more skin than material 
which is supposed to compen­sate for her sub par voice. De­spit!~ the half-hearted effort to show the act as actually popu­lar. it does not deserve to play beyond the lounge of a Holiday 
Inn. 
The development of the rela­tionship between the two brothers shows the actors to be as deep as an empty wading pool. The relationship between .Jeff and Beau Bridges larks substance. The rplationship frustrates the audiPnee, be­cause it never fully devnlops. .Just when the audience thinks all is lost. a list light erupts between the two, venting ten years of pent up frustrations. /\side from that one attempt. little is done to inform the audi­ence of the feelings the common human emotions with depth and sensitivity. Her use of symbolism and vivid imagery and her original musical style makes her album a pleasure to listen to. Bush's unique style is refreshing at a time when lack of originality has become all too common. "The Sensual World" is a triumphant addition to Kate Bush's impressive collection of innovative LP's. 

brothers have for each other. 
On the other hand, the relationship between Pfeiffer and the younger Bridges pro­duces chemistry which erupts into a steamy massage scene in an empty smoke-filled lounge after a New Year's Eve perfor­mance. The relationship be­tween Pfeiffer and Bridges is subtle, yet the audience is al­ways aware of the attraction the two share. If nothing else. the deVf~lopment of their rela­tionship will make you stay in your chair to watch the end of the movie, no matter how unin­terested you may be in what goes on between the Baker Boys. 
Although it has potential to be good, the movie just misses. There are better movies to sec. Unless you love the seductive Pfeiffer or the pensive Jeff Bridges, wait for this one to come out on video. 



~~~~-p~:=•g•e-1-:--~c~·-~---·~~---.~~..-.~~--~----~~---------T~h-e-O~bs_e_N_e_r--~~----~--~-•-=-~--~·~•---­
Friday, November 10, 1989 

On listening to symphonies of the air• 
A wm~k ago, I went to St. Ed's that every creature that can stir anger and gracefulness hang very quick learner. finished. with each of us telling to attend the forum on racial has its own vocabulary. which out like a charm. I didn't spend ymtrs of my life the horror stories of his or her 
tension at Notre Dame. My it uses to demand its place in 
hearing has never been good, the sun. 
so last spring I was fitted with At St. Ed's, I sat quietly as 
a pair of hearing-aids, one for the students discussed the ex­
each ear, whieh are sensitive perience of the minorities. Ev-
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
enough to pick up the sounds of eryone spoke 

bats squeaking subliminally on there were no shootouts. Be­
Mars. I only wear them on oc­cause I was wearing hearing 
casions when I don't want to aids, I started listening for the 
miss a trick. 
voices of the other minorities I'm glad that I wore them at from the rainbow coalition who St. Ed's because I heard some­were not even in the building; thing beautiful which could be when you're wearing those described, in Wordsworth's bugs in your ears, you become 
phrase as, "The still, and sad highly imaginative about bring­
music of humanity/Nor harsh ing the outside in, adding the 
nor grating. though of ample cries of the poor, for example, 
power!ro chasten and subdue." to the Jews-for-Jesus, hoping 
Let me tell you something the combination will sound like about hearing-aids. They pick a chorus. up the noises you want to hear, I'm not going to try to tell the noises you don't want to you what the black students 
hear, and the noises. you would said, because I'm not eloquent have been listening for all of enough, nor sensitive enough to your life. if you had only known reproduce the emotional nu­
they were there. Sometimes ances of their speech. I didn't 
now, I take walks with my bat­hear any of them asking. in tery-powered ears perked up, that song out of llarlem, "Why so that I can hear the song of am I so black and blue?'' 
Nature; bird calls. and the I've read a lot of black litera­sounds of woodpeckers and of ture. but this was more power­squirnds gnawing on frozen ful. and something rare, be­pizza crusts; and the melody sides. It may have been the first the wind makes when it's using time in my life -except for a few tlw trees for a harp. Everything bull sessions in my digs -that I coalesces into a unity until it's ever sat for two hours listening like a rock'n'roll tune with one to young, gifted blacks saying of the stereo tracks missing, what it means to be alive and 
that you hPar from a tape on well and feeling good (or bad) your Walkrnan. Elvis, it ain't, in America: letting their wit, hut it's comforting to diseowr humor, courage, frustration, 
Why am I writing this? Am I trying to do public penance for the open letter to black stu­dents published in this space three weeks ago? I'm in a no­win situation over that letter. I will be damned if I mention it, if it's just as well forgotten; damned if I don't, if people think I'm writing all this, hop­ing it will take the bad taste out of their mouths. 
I'm not ashamed of the letter. It was written in defense of a friend about to be rendered hors de combat. I was afraid, because of the emotions that were swirling around him. By the time the letter appeared, the Donnybrook had been peacefully settled, and so I had egg on my face, but not much. I really do hate mentioning that letter, though I'm willing to ex­plain anything in it, to anyone, at any time, to show it was written with love and respect for students for gathering in­formation in a way that that I thought was unfair. 
I would be honestly proud to be the close friend of any black student willing to give me their time of day. Since I'm 64 and opinionated, though not in mat­ters of color, I think the friend­ship would be less awkward if the partners to it took turns being right, though I don't need to be right more than 15% of the time. I don't believe in infal­libility. least of all my own. and . sometimes, not even the Pope's. I would never presume to tell a black person what it means to be black in America. I have the humility to listen, with or with­out mv hearing-aids, and I'm a teaching urchins to sing, "Jesus loves the little children/ All the children of the world. /Hcd and yellow, black and white/ they are precious in His sight./Jesus loves the little children of the the world," so that they could grow up to lind out I've bncomn a bigot in my old age. I'm available to anyone who can stand to listen to me. I live on the second floor of Stanford, at the top of the stairs. My room has the only door in the dorm with a "Beware of the dog" sign on it. But. I didn't intend, when I began this piece, to offer my­self as the oldest active teddy bear -kind of person living at Notre Dame. 
At St. Ed's, I listened, in my imagination, to the symphony of humanity. I know of number of minority students at Notre Dame; Marxist nephews of the late Ayatollah; Hosicrucians on the lam; a colony of hobbits who pass as Franciscans, and probably some Martians who wear golf caps to keep their an­tennae covered; for you don't have to b1~ gay to stay in the closet. A number of gays hen~. I think, would like to be allowed to hold public forums at St. Ed's. Women in the Catholic Church feel pushed around. It's sad for everyone if the only fo­rum available to them is in the pages of a newspapPr, where everything turns out sounding angry. It's not PVPn easy to be a priest at Notre Dame (we're considerably outnumben~d.l wlwn you hear of the priest­bashing and Pope bashing that goes on in classrooms. 
When the monologues aw 

choice, then the dialogue can begin, in which each one starts listening to the others, as well as asking to be listened to him­self. As soon as you start lis­tening . your education begins. Any good school should want to be famous as a listening place. People should go to a university to listen and talk, the way peo­ple used to listen and talk at the village well. 
Notre Damn, being Catholic, has no strong title to shape it­self. because of the religion. into a talkathon, or a town meeting, or to collect funds to endow conversation pits. But, since it is Christian, students have a right to expect the kind of healing that is most avail­able through education. I have no great vision of what Notre Dame's future could be like, if the school became all things to all comers. 
Instead of a vision. I have this great pair of hearing-aids which keep trying to bring harmony out of several levels of discourse which dissents. What I heard at St. Ed's last week may have been the beginning of the first movement of tlw "Unfinished Symphony," or the last notes of "Nearer, My God, To Thee." I think thern was much promise of some great black GospPI music. Let's hope that all of us can join in a mov­ing rendition of "We shall over­come," with nobody off-kPy. 
If you rmwt me on campus. for God's sake, don't conw up to me and holh~r. unl1~ss I ask you to. If those ear bugs are in plan~ turrwd up high, you could blast nw into orbit. 
..... 

MONDAY NOVEMBER 13 
"Introduction 

to the Arab world" and "Israel: The Story of the Jewish People.. 
Two short length films. The first Explores the diversity and unity, cultural traditions, and contemporary concerns of the Arab world. 
The second explains the historical and cultural role of the Jewish people in the Middle East. 
MONDAY NOVEMBER 13 7:00p.m HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 14 
"The Arab-Israeli Conflict: A Palestinian Perspective" Lecture given by Dr. Raj-ae Busailah, a Palestinian refugee born in Jerusalem.. Dr. Busailah received his Ph.D from New York University and is now an English professor at 
Indiana University at Kokomo. 
7:00 p.m. 124 Hayes-Healy. 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 15 
"Islam : Religion and Social Force in an Age of Nation-States." Lecture by Professor Patrick Gaffney, C.S.C, an associate professor of Anthropology at Notre Dame. His specialties include Islamic society and social movements. 
7:00 at the Montgomery Theater at LaFortune Student Center. 
An Israeli Perspective" Lecture by Professor Alan Dowty, from the Government and International Studies Department at Notre Dame. Professor Dowty taught in the International Relations Department at Hebrew University in Jerusalem from 1963-1975 and also served as chairman of the department. 
7:00p.m. Montgomery Theatre at LaFortune Student Center 
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 17 
"Middle Eastern Meal" Includes informal discussion with students who participated in the Jerusalem program last semester, plus displays of their travel pictures and Arab and Jewish cultural artifacts. 
The Blue Room of North Dining Hall Make reservations with the Student Government Secretary -2nd floor LaFortune 

---~--~-------------~-------------~-­
Friday, November 10, 1989 The Observer 
page 15 


Wings continue their winless string 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP) Toronto stopped Philadelphia Minnesota's three first-period 
-Dave Gagner and rookie 4-1, Chicago edged Pittsburgh goals. 
Mike Modano scored two goals 4-3 and Montreal tied St. Louis Gagner gave the North Stars 
each Thursday night as the 1-1. the lead at 5:08 when he eluded 
Minnesota North Stars ex­Mokosak and beat Stefan with 
tended Detroit's winless streak Jon Casey made 26 saves as a backhand between the 
to nine with a 5-1 victory over _Minnesota improved to 7-1-0 at goalie's pads. Six minutes later, 
the Hed Wings. home, the third-best home Gagner got behind Mokosak 
The last-place Red Wings, 0-record in the NHL. and took a pass from Gaetan 
6-3 in their last nine, are on Duchesne as Gagner broke be­
their longest winless streak Detroit goaltender Greg tween the faceoff circles. 
since they went 0-10-2 from Stefan had his second straight Gagner deflected the puck to­
Dec. 29, 1984, to Jan. 21, 1985. shaky outing since returning to ward the goal with his skates, 
In other NHL action the Detroit roster after a back and as Mokosak held up 
Thursday, Boston beat injury. He wasn't helped by de­Gagner, the puck slid under 
Edmonton 6-2, Quebec topped fenseman John Mokosak, who Stefan, who missed the puck as 
the New York Islanders 7-5, was beaten on each of he lunged at it with his stick. 
Classifieds 
NEED 4 SMU GAs 
2 MIAMI GA'S 4SALE 
Call X1862
CALL STEVE X3013 

NOTICES WANTED 
I Need SMU Tix! Call Bob at 
I need SMU GA's ....#1128.

Spee-Dee #1758.
MIDWAY AIRLINES CAMPUS REP 

Wordprocessing 
Notre Dame home sports schedule 

November 1 0-12, 1989  
Friday Friday  Basketball vs. Israel, 7:30 p.m. Volleyball vs. UIC, 7:30 p.m. at Joyce ACC Pit  

Friday Hockey vs. Dearborn, 7:30p.m. Saturday Football vs. SMU, 12:10 p.ni. Saturday Volleyball vs. UT-Arlington, 7:30p.m. 
Beach Volleyball Night at Joyce ACC Main Arena 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Dear Family, SINGING TELEGRAMS, 255-3355 BELL YGRAMS, BALLOONS, 
Glad you could make it out for the game. Hope your weekend is HiAg! 
great, and I look fprward to spending the weekend with you. 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY Kurt 

. Salary and limited free passes. SMU STUDENT TICKET FOR 237-1949 
TOP$ KRIS TORTORELLA! 
. Promote travel among student SALE. CALL CHRIS x4078 
ALL HOME GA'S organizations.


WORDPROCESSING EDDIE DIAPER! 
312-920-9350 STUDY IN JAPAN THIS SUMMER. 
. Possible full-time employment I need LOTS of SMU stud. TIX 
272-8827 WEISER-WOO!
LEARN ABOUT JAPANESE 

upon graduation. call rob @ 232-9469. 
PAUL FINGER-BUST A MOVE! 

2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale CULTURE, BUSINESS & 
Send resume to: Pat Stamper 

THANKSGIVING SERVICE CURTIS INTERRUPTIS! 
272-5092 SOCIETY. LIVE WITH A HOST MIDWAY AIRLINES SALES DEPT. 
PROJECT: Join other students JIM TOOHEY-HOW'S ERIE/ANN
FAMILY. OTHER SPECIAL 5959 S. Cicero

working at a shelter for the home­NEED 2 GAs FOR NAVY ARBOR?
FEATURES. CALL INT'L 
Chicago, IL 60638 

less in Chicago. Call Jim Cabot CALL ANN 284-4223 INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS, 1-800-WANT SOME CHEESE CURLS? @ 277-9198 or Mike Affeck@ HELP I I need 3SMU student THEY'RE GOOOOOODI 
869-7056, FOR DETAILS. 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo.

239-7943. tickets. Please call Tom@ 1714. HIO.
Summer. Yr. round, All Countries, LOUD JERKS RULE THE DT! 
HELP!
All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO

TYPING AVAILABLE. I NEED MIAMI TICKETS! BUCKY HAS A CHAINSAW. 
I NEED 3 GA'S FOR PITT.
BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 
JERRY X1998 

287-4082. WILL TRADE 50-YD LINE PITT Going to Florida for CHRISTMAS? 
STUD & $$. JULIE X3789 I need a ride. Can leave any1imeTYPING Wish KRIS TORTORELLA a
after Wed. Will pay gas, etc, but I RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCH. NY

PICKUP & DELIVERY HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY 11/11!
need to know by 11/10 THANK. BK.-ANDY 3114 277-7406 

TAKE A BREAK! I'LL BUY YOUR 11-18 PENN STATE SKTS. CALL CALL TRISH x4121
I NEED TO TRADE 4 SMU GA'S HEY TRISH BABE ! COLLECT: 609-390-0456. FOR 4 SMU STUDENT TIX!!! That's right, the Corn-Cob is the 1-V CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP HELP PLEASEI!I first to go. From Caroline to the
COUCH or LOVE SEAT NEEDED. 

PRESENTS I NEED NAVY,SMU,PENN ST, & CALL CATHI OR KELLY Feldrick chix, he's made his mark, 
IF U HAVE 1 TO SELL, CALL @4985MIAMI TIXS.272-6306 
the most attractive of which wasx3609.

"The Call to the Marketplace·· REAL men wear kilts the 3-D spew. But the best is yet Your Career and Your Christianity 
Snow. Cold , Wet. Miserable. Sell • IRISH GUARD FAN CLUB • to come, John -Kachzmakazies 
me your SMU student tickets I Call are on us, Stan or no Stan. Happy6 O'Hara-Grace (x-2692) 
John @22991 NOTRE DAME LODGING FOR Birthday, Bullhead. 10 NOV. 7-8:30 PM DON'T MISS THE LAST HOME 
PENN STATE GAME Luxurious FOR SALE Need 3 SMU GA's. condominiums at hotel prices. Hey Don! 
GAME! TWO SMU STUDENT TIX! Will pay big bucks. Call 234-2359 After an exhilarating game, return X4043. ask for Mark. to Blue Knob Ski & Country Club My law books get TWO walls WANTED MIAMI GA'S. and enjoy dining at The Village Inn of the library! By the way. 
1-WAY TICKET FROM SB TO 

Wordprocessing, TOP$$ PD.
NEED MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY$$$. Restaurant, end the evening by HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! 
DALLAS/FORT WORTH. LEAVES

call Marge 239-6347 CALL 256-1 034 
CALL JIM HAGAN COLLECT 404-celebrating in the Lounge. To DEC 22.FEMALE ONLY. 
THANKS I 

331-6039. CALL 404-351-7009 complete the day relax in one of Love Paula$160.CALL LISA AT 4916. 
AFTER 6 PM. our indoor pools, hot tubs, saunas,
LOST/FOUND 
& steam rooms. Bus transportation 1975 EL CAMINO. RUNS GOOD. 

Poor slob needs lots o' SMU TIX available depending on
$1500 FIRM. PAT 3598. 

FOUND: WATCH IN THE 
to fend off major depression. occupancy. For further information HEISBURGH PARKING LOT 
Please call Matt 277-9485 PERSONALS please call Blue Knob Ski & CALL DORTHY @ 239-6640 
Country Club at 814-239-5191 CHRISSY CLASSICS 1 I think sober guys are sexyRed 4 door 1980 Honda Accord 

Found a camera near the library NEEDED: Small Couch or Love 2 Come to me if u want a hole
I simply must have Call '3619the week before fall break. Call 

2 Miami tickets Seat Please Call x3609. burnt in your underwear 
Now hiring technicians to operate

x 1593 and ask for David. call Ted@ 1204 3 What's on the window siii?(BF) 
professioal Sound System. 
Please stop by the DESSERT 4 Is he a football playing dentist 

CHEAP RT TIX SBEND(12/22) to Some experience required, LOST: Sony DISCMAN at 
2 MIAMI GA's 4 SALE BUFFET with your Mom and Pop named Biff? LOFTUS. Saturday morning MATT 271-9576 5 What does -------a raccoon 
SACTO.CA RETURN(1/15) Marge additional training provided. 
283-2898 Inquire at the Student Activities Sat night between 8:30 and 11 :00
before the Navy game. REWARD! mean?
Office, 315 LaFortune. at the South Dining Hall!
Please call Monica x4917. 6 Please don't beat me that way 
MIAMI TIX Or call 239-7308. $2/person or $5/family. 
I Need 2 SMU GA's 7 Wordydird-walking enormfor sale plus 
missing : road bicycle Please call Scott X4113 8 Are u a homosexual stripper? 
plane tic thank you lord Jesus for answered Need a ride to HARRISBURG ?? 
white astro-daminer 9 There's a beak in there and pits 
john 1700 prayer (or in the general area??) 
no ieft brake or toe clip in those cherries 
for info Miami Ticket I need riders to help drive & 
call : 277:1631 no questions 1 0 I'd rather do it inside 
Miami Ticket GOING ABROAD SALE share expenses for T -giving. 
reward : $50.00 Miami Ticket 11 I know TaeKwonDo & I'll hung 
Leaving Tues. 1 pm and returning SEE ND BEAT MIAMI !!!!! IBM Proprinter XL ($250) & Sun
Miami Ticket chop u Found: a lady's ring between 12 When am I going to Pakistan?
FOR 2 LOW PRICED PLANE IBM PC Jr. w/ 256K ($300), (OBO) PLEASE call Beth X2722 
North dining hall and Cavanaugh 13 Swing on this
I need 4 Miami Tickets. Please
TIX-CALL# 4923 

on November 7. Call Katie to help me. I'm just your average ND MANY PROGRAMS INCLUDED ... GAYS AND LESBIANS AT 14 The infamous bankcard#(don't identify at #48281 peak)
student looking to support my ND/SMC invites you to its
Call Christine 283-2845 

team. Call Will at 283-1474. 15 I hope u like drunk guys, too! 
Fly to the sun I Los Angeles I November general meeting. 6PM Sunday, November 12, at the Thanksforyoursupport.
AIRPLANE TICKET FOR SALE!! Runaway Bay clubhouse. $50. REWARD!!!!! FOR THE ADOPTION -Well-educated
ROUNDTRIP TICKET TO LA For more info. call James x4256 RETURN OF A BLUE BOOK BAG NEED 2 SMU TIX couple eager to adopt a baby.
FOR THANKSGIVING! GLND/SMC AND ITS CONTENTS LOST Call Liz at X4273 Cheerful home full of books. HI KATHY!!!
P.O. BOX194 MONDAY NIGHT BY HOLY Flexible on sharing information
Leaves South Bend Nov. 22nd NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
CROSS' PORCH AT ST. MARYS. WANTED: MIAMI GAs for lots o with birthmother about child. Our
Returns to South Bend Nov. 28th NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL cash. Call John or Frank X1419 adoption agency can provide 
283-2261 OR 283-2319 AND ASK counseling and references. Please.
1 paid $200.00 I will take best ANTI-APARTHEID VIGIL EVERY 
FOR DON. FOR SALE I 2 SMU GA'S call collect 309-827-3135 ANTI-APARTHEID PRAYER VIGIL
offer. If interested call 283-3536 FRI12:15 ADMIN BLDG STEPS 
BEST OFFER BY FRIDAY, 5:00PM eves/wknds for profile/photo. FRI 6:00 ADMIN BLDG STEPS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL KELI X2636 James and Hollis. LOST AND NEEDS TO BE ·Ride needed to Washington DC
AIRLINE TICKET SO .BEND TO 

FOUNDI!!!!!!!!!!!!! area for Thanksgiving break. Will
1!!!!!1!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 Need Penn St. Tix. Please call help with driving and expenses. 
ORLANDO ROUND TRIP NOV. 

!!!!!!!!! Nelson at 3278. Big $$$. PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES CALL X1329 JOHN CARLIN WANTS HIS NEED RIDE BACK TO NYC OVER 
18-27. $180.00. 291-5857 

PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES SCAPULA WITH VERY I need SMU GA's and stud tix BREAK! CALL Cesar #1584 So are you the north or the south 
IMPORTANT MEDALLION TICKETS Colin x4057 pole?
at DUFFY'S ATTACHED LOST TWO 
SUNDAYS AGO ON STEPAN WANTED:SMU GA'S 10pm FRIDAY NOV. 10
FRIDAY NOV.10 FIELD DURING FOOTBALL I'll buy any tickets for any home X3690 JOHN CURRAN ND QUARTER MILE-COME
11!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!! GAME. HUGE MONEY PRIZES DO game. or Miami. SHOW YOUR SUPPORT!
I!!!!!!!!
BUST A MOVE ON ME!! 

THE DEED AND CALL ME AT 283-call JEFF at 239-3714, 1178THANKS leave a message. Thanks. *****************•******'***!***** $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ND QUARTER MILE 
You need TXTS. call277-3653 I need 6 SMU tickets -call Mary Jo ND QUARTER MILE LOST: Blue Notre Dame Pouch x2638 FRIDAY NOV. 10!!!! with valedine and detex. Please STUDENT-MADE FOOTBALL T­PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES 
call x2922. Need two SMU tix please call 284-SHIRTS WANTED. CALL TOM Saturday Saturday Saturday TODAY!! ND QUARTER MILE 
4930!!!!!!!!!! COLLECT AT (602) 948-7610 McCORMICK'S 9pm DILLON QUAD!!!! LOST: Two Cross Pens bearing MUST SELL: 2 Miami GAs. WITH DESCRIPTION. w/Barley Boys from NYC the AT&T logo. One lost on 10/16 You need TXTS. call277-3653 Call Tim X1423 ESPECIALLY WANT CATHOLICS 
in room 122 Hayes Healy, other vs. CONDOMS. WILL PAY Come and SEE ... The 
Big 4 Classic

lost in LaFortune. Have PENN STATE $12.50/SHIRT. BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND sentimental value. If found please $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
DecerTt>er 2 call Joe@ 3804: REWARD I NEED 3 MIAMI TICKETS SHAWN 271-9901 CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable Friday, 10th 10-1:00 
I NEED3 GAS live aL THEODORE'S 
Sponsored by Soph. Class I HAVE BIG BUCKS TO OFFER atmosphere, daily & weekly 
Tix and Transportation $35 CALL JEFF X3555 Need 2 SMU ticks. Student or GA. specials, pool table, English darts, 
Available in Soph. Class OffiCe $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Marty at x1868 and great company. 234-3541 
thrnunh 11/15 


-~ -~-----~-­


page 16 The Observer 
McDonald wins Golden Spike prize 
NEW YORK (API -Former Louisiana State pitching star Ben McDonald was selected Thursday the winner of the Golden Spikes Award, presented annually by the United States Baseball Federation to the top amateur player. 
Dan Peltier, an All-American outlinldtlr for Notre Dame last spring, had been a finalist for the award. 
McDonald, who was 14-4 for LSU this season, was the Baltimore Orioles' No. 1 draft pick in June and spent part of September in thP major leagues. 
'It's very meaningful for me," McDonald said. "I think it's the biggest amateur award, and I'm wal pleased about it. It's a goal I set for myself. to try to 
Runners 
continued from page 24 a surprising Ball State team also have received votes in the NCAA poll. But as Irish head coach .Joe Piane pointed out, it is perfor­mance, not rankings, that will determine who gets to make the trip to Annapolis later this month for the NCMs. "I think that there are 10 teams with a legitimate shot, but it matters not what you're ranked going in, it's how you're ranked going out that counts," he said. Notre Dame is definitely a team with a legitimate shot. The Irish finished second to Wisconsin in the District Meet last year, and Piane was named the district's coach of the year for the second season in a row. The Irish went on to place ninth in the NCAA<>. So far in 1989, the Irish have been having a stellar year, win­ning every meet except the Notre Dame Invitational, when Central Michigan nipped the host team by two points. lJistrict IV produced 11 All-
will be interviewing on an open and invitational schedule on Thursday, November 16, 1989 for the follow­~ng position~: 
STAFF ACCOUNTANT -Entry level account coding reconcilliation, fixed asset control & journal preparation. December, May, or August graduates in Accountancy or Rnance will be interviewed. 
APPLICATION PROGRAMMER -Work in entry level programming debugging, maintenance operation will work in COBOL-OS/MVS environment. December, May, or August graduates in Computer Applications (CAPP) and MIS will be inter1iewed. 
INTERNAL AUDITOR -Entry level involvement with auditing all facets of company -policies, procedure, financial and internal controls. December, May, or Au­gust graduates will be interviewed. 
These majors are invited to attend Kimball International's presentation on Wednesday, November 15, 1989 from 
6:00 P.M. -8:00 P.M. For more information contact Place­ment and Services Office, Notre Dame. 
.2_ Kirmalllntemational 
._. 1600 Royal Street Jasper, IN 4 7546 
An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action E"l))oyer 
achieve it I think it just tops off a good amateur career." 
McDonald was one of nine fi­nalists for the award. The others were Scott Bryant of Texas, John Byington of Texas A&M, Alex Fernandez of Miami, Tom Goodwin of Fresno State, Peltier, Eric Wedge of Wichita State, Dan Wilson of Minnesota and Alan Zinter of Arizona. 
'This was the final thing. The final award. It tops off a good amateur career," McDonald said. "The last several months I've been really Iucky -the Olympic team, that really got me going, got to be in three or four different countries and 24 diffenmt cities in a matter of three and a half months. I ma­tured a lot as an individual on the road trips, and I matured a 
Americans last year, and some of them will be returning this time. The Irish will have to be on the lookout for Bob Kennedy from Indiana and Mark Croghun from Ohio University. 
Notre Dame has some im­pressive runners of its own. 
Senior captain Mike O'Connor has finished first for the team in every meet this season, and he has been backed up by J.T. Burke, Tom O'Rourke and Pat 

HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 
lot as a baseball player. It's something I'll never forget." 
In three years at LSU, McDonald was 29-4 with six saves, and struck out 373 in 308 1-3 innings. 
The Orioles and McDonald spent much of the summer ne­gotiating his contract, and he didn't make his first major league appearance until Sept. 7. 

llis father, Larry McDonald, represented him through most of the talks, which began shortly after the draft. 
During a lull in negotiations with the Orioles, McDonald spent a week playing with other top U.S. amateurs in the Cape Cod League, but returned horne soon afterward because of what he said was media dis­traction. 
Kearns. Burke and O'Hourke have had solid races all year, while Kearns has been improv­ing with each outing. 

.Junior Ryan Cahill has been strong for the Irish, while freshman .John Coyle has re­cently come alive. Coyle broke into the Notre Dame top five for the first time in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships at the end of October. 
w~ ©&[Ntrr ~~[lJ~W~ ~u ~~uD=O~lR1~ ~[R1~~~ 

How're you going to do it? 
···tnd I IHIIJIIu '''!'"~" ,,. dt•t'f'~' 
/1-lt indt-IJI,..dm•."' und !!mtitw/t· to "'' /,Sf:!.. It helpt·tl mt• J!t'l mtm• tltmt• -MI I hwlmon•11mr• ,,, Jim.'' 
PS/2 it! 

You don't have to be the valedictorian to know eollege is no picnic. But the IBM Personal System/2® can bt• a big help. It lets you get more dont" in less time. You can organiz.-your 
""""· .n...... ~;~ ....~..... ere•"' •m•rt-1""';"" 
graphic.s to make a good report even bettPr. All in all, tlw IBM PS/2® can make your school lift> a lot easier. And after school, it can give you a ht"ad start on your /;;;~· •; • ~ 
career. Because !heres a good chanct> you'll be work-~l{!!ip~~~ ing with a PS/2 wherever you work after college. ~ 
And right now, as a student you haw an advanta~'· You can g<'l the IBM PS/2 at a terrific low price. So save money and makt• a smart career decision at the same time. 
Coming soon: IMMEDIATE DELIVERY! 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE Office of University Computing Computing Center and Math Building 
239-7477 § : =i-::~~ 

IBM, Personal System/2 and PS/2 are reg1slered trademarks ollnterna11onal Busmess Machines CorporahOn ©IBM Corp 1gag 
Friday, November 10, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's basketball team is looking for walk-ems for the corning season. Interested players should report to the .Joyce ACC arena at 11 a.m. Sunday, Nov. 12. 
300 single tickets for Saturday's Notre Dame-SMU game went on sale today at 9 a.m. at Gate 10 of thn .Joyce ACC. 
Big Four Classic student tickets will go on saln from 9 a.rn.to 5 p.m. Monday and Tuesday at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. The tickets arc $25 for the games. Notre Dame will play Louisville and Indiana will meet K.entucky in thn g.ames on Dec. 2. Students may buy one ticket per ID with a maximum of four IDs. 
Water Polo Club will host its invitational this Friday and Saturday. The Irish will play Eastern Michigan at 8:30 p.m. Friday at Rolfs, Southern Illinois at 9 a.m. Saturday at Hockne and Miami of Ohio at 5 p.m. Saturday at Hockne. 
WVFI-AM 640 will broadcast tonight's hockey game between Notre Dame and Michigan-Dearborn beginning at 7:30p.m. .Join .Jamey Rappis and Will Clark for the action. 
STEAKS 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA
PRIME RIB 
Featuring Friday night seafood bullet SEAFOOD 
and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 

·~l' FREE TANNING
)~ ~ with every Purchase! r ·,~~-\ FOR AVERY UMITED nME!
" -1• 
(WITH THIS AD)
~ / ~ 
~~ . ~ FOR .DETAILS •••
', / \l' ~ stop 1n to see our \ ·----~ (t. salon, or call us at ... I~".\·~ ~ 272•7653 k-·r~\ ~Expires May, 1990 
lp\d F~W~~IL 
University Commons, St. Rd. 2:.1. South Bend, ln. 


Friday, November 10, 1989 The Observer page 17 


Macintosh Plus/Hard Disk Bundle 
• 
68000 microprocessor, 1 megabyte of memory 

• 
'5 expansion ports 

• 
1 internal HOOK floppy disk drive 

• 
Apple' Hard Disk 20SC 

• 
HyperCard• software 

• 
Microsoft' Word 4.0 

• 
Macintosh Plus keyboard 


Was $1650 Now $1522 
Save $128 
+~~!n€mWd/UJ /
· ... ·· ..~ 

Macintosh SE/Hard Disk/ImageWriter Bundle 
• 
68000 microprocessor, 1 megabyte of memory 

• 
1 expansion slot, 7 ports 

• 
1.4-megahyte internal floppy disk drive 

• 
20-megabyte internal hard disk 

• 
HyperCard software 

• 
Microsoft Word 4.0 

• 
Standard keyboard 

• 
Apple ImageWriter II primer 


Was $2593 Now $2313 
Save $280 
Macintosh Hex/Hard Disk/LaserWriter Bundle 
• 
68030 processor, 68882 math coprocessor 

• 
1 megabyte of memory 

• 
40-megabyte internal hard disk 

• 
1.4-megabyte internal floppy disk drive 

• 
3 expansion slots, 7 ports 

• 
AppleColor RGB monitor & 8-bit video card 

• 
HyperCard software 

• 
Microsoft Word 4.0 

• 
Standard keyboard 

• 
Apple LaserWriter" IISC printer 


Was $6530 Now $6075 
Macintosh SE/ImageWriter Bundle 
• 
68000 microprocessor, 1 megabyte of memory 

• 
1 expansion slot, 7 ports 

• 
2 internal 1.4-megabyte floppy disk drives 

• 
HyperCard software 

• 
Microsoft Word 4.0 

• 
Standard keyboard 

• 
Apple ImageWriter II printer 


Was $2260 Now $2005 
Save $255 
......................:~--:· 
._.. 

Macintosh llcx Hard Disk/ImageWriter Bundle 
• 
68030 microprocessor, 68882 math coprocessor 

• 
1 megabyte of memory 

• 
40-megabyte internal hard disk 

• 
1.4-megabyte internal floppy disk drive 

• 
3 expansion slot<>, 7 pon..'i 

• 
AppleColor'" RGB monitor & 8-bit video card 

• 
HyperCard software 

• 
Microsoft Word 4.0 

• 
Standard keyboard 

• 
Apple ImageWriter II printer 


Was $5111 Now $4773 
Save $338 
Macintosh Plus Hard Disk/lmageWriter Bundle 
• 
68000 microprocessor, 1 megabyte of memory 

• 
5 expansion ports 

• 
1 internal 800K floppy disk drive 

• 
Apple Hard Disk 20SC 

• 
HyperCard software 

• 
Microsoft Word 4.0 

• 
Macintosh Plus keyboard • Apple ImageWriter41 11 printer 


Was $2115 Now $1900 Save $215 
Macintosh SE/30 Hard Disk/ImageWriter Bundle 
• 
68030 microprocessor, 68882 math coprocessor 

• 
1 megabyte of memory 

• 
1 expansion slot, 7 ports 

• 
1.4-megabyte internal floppy disk drive 

• 
40-megabyte internal hard disk 

• 
HyperCard software 

• 
Microsoft Word 4.0 

• 
Standard keyboard 

• 
Apple lmageWriter II printer 


Was $3692 Now $3409 
Save $283 
For more information on how 
you can save hundreds of dollars 
on a variety ofApple Macintosh 
computers and peripherals, 
contact the: 
NOTRE DA.1\1E 
COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center I Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 

No-w throughJanuary 26 
Friday, November 10, 1989

page 18 
College bowl picture starts getting clearer 
(AP) -Bowl bids won't be an­nounced until Nov. 25, but the postseason picture is already coming into focus. 
Pending the results of several games, here are the most likely matchups in the Jan. 1 bowls: 
ORANGE: Colorado vs. Notre Dame. 
SUGAR: The Southeastern Conference champion vs. Miami. 
COTTON: The Southwest Conference champion vs. Nebraska, Michigan-Illinois loser or SEC runner-up. 
ROSE: Pacific 10 champion vs. Big Ten champion. 
FIESTA: Florida St. vs. Nebraska, SEC runner-up, Penn State or Michigan. 
CITRUS: Tennessee, Alabama or Virginia vs. Nebraska, Illinois or Penn State. 
liALL OF FAME: Florida, Auburn, or Virginia vs. Penn State, West Virginia, Ohio St. or Pittsburgh. 
Top-ranked Notre Dame and No. 2 Colorado are almost cer­tain to play in the Orange Bowl, with the national championship probably at stake. All Colorado has to do to lock up the Big Eight bid is beat Oklahoma State and Kansas State. Notre Dame has difficult games re­
maining against Penn State and Miami, but the Irish will probably go to the Orange even if they lose both. 
Why? Because a loss to Penn State would still give Notre Dame an impressive 10-1 record heading into the Miami game. And that game won't be ' t" t . ; . 
over until after the bids are an­nounced. 

• I ~J@I),)/1!]~1 &ge~M IQ 4.
Orange Bowl president Tom • ~ h u -·.,-.. "'
"-•••••••, 

Wood admits that Notre Dame APPhoto has the inside track. Illinois and Southern California both are expected to play in New Year's Day bowls, and they may have a "It's hard to go wrong with rematch at the Rose Bowl. The lllini surprised the Trojans 14-13 early this season in Los Angeles. 
Notre Dame," he said. "They're the Su~ar Bowl win?er could be the top draw in college foot­the natiOnal champiOn. ball." "That's certainly something 
The Sugar Bowl is the only w~'ve talked abou~ " .said 
other bowl with a shot at a na­Mtckey Holmes, executtve dtrec­tional title game. Here's the tor of the Sugar Bowl. "It's a scenario: Miami beats Notre roll of the dice, but it's defi-Dame, finishes 10-1 and plays nitely a possibility." 
undefeated Alabama in New Holmes also thinks there's Orleans. Notre Dame then still a chance for a Notre beats undefeated Colorado in Dame-Alabama matchup in the the Orange Bowl. In that case, Sugar. But that seems highly 
Darville's lawyer begins ~estimony 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) Everybody knew Luther Darville was diverting funds from the University of Minnesota to give to student-athletes "and no­body objected," Darville's at­torney said Thursday as the de­
fpnse  opened  its  case  in  
Darville's theft trial.  
"Money passed through  his  

(Darville's) hands to students with the adviee, consent and full knowledge of many people at the university, including Dr. Frank Wilderson," Lawton said. referring to the former univnrsity vice president of stu­dent development who was Darville's boss. 
Lawton said he would call just two witnesses: Darville and Hon Edwards. former head of the Minneapolis Urban League. 
Darville is charged with three felony counts of theft by swin-
London $215.00 
Madrid $235.00 
Frankfurt $225.00 
Scheduled carriers! Book anytime! Fares 1/2 AT from Chicago. Some restrictions apply. lnt'l Teacher J.D.; hostel passes; overseas foreign language refresher courses for teachers. Call for FREE Travel Catalog. 
die in the disappearance of $186,000 from the university's Office of Minority and Special Student Affairs, which he headed before being fired last year. 
The prosecution, which rested its ease this morning after call­ing 32 witnesses, contends that Darville stole the money for his personal use, but Darville has said he gave the money to needy students and student-athletes at the behest of his superiors. 
Wilderson, in testifying for the prosecution, denied that he ordered Darville to make such payments and said he had no knowledge of them. 
In his opening statement, Lawton said Darville would tes­tify that, at the request of Wilderson, he became involved with helping sort out problems 
in the university's athletic de­
partment. 
"He'll testify that Dr. Wilderson relied on him greatly to see what was going on, to aet as his eyes and ears," Lawton said. 
Darville also will tell of a pat­tern of recruitment, which in­cluded promises for many things, Lawton said. "They were promised the use of ears. They were promised jobs. They were promised money on the side," the attorney said. 
Darville will testify he was assigned to help reduee racial tensions in athleties and to im­prove academic standing, Lawton said, adding that Darville was to do this through eneouragement and financial support to athletes. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, 
CHARMAINE! 
LOVE, 
MOM, DAD, AND MARK 
unlikely unless Colorado loses much longer putts, but two of one of its final two games and them are sidehill with a couple drops out of the national title of breaks." chase. To keep its title hopes 
The Fiesta, which has hosted
alive, Alabama must beat 
national championship gamesLouisiana State, Southern 
two of the last three years,
Mississippi and Auburn. 
could have a rematch of its 1988 Florida State-Nebraska"Colorado is two short 
game. Also on the short list are
straight putts away from a 
Miami, Penn Stall~. Alabamachampionship game," Holmes said. "Alabama not only has and Tennessee. 

~~~ 
8 CJ F~ JJ\J J-J ;. \ L L ~ -r;.\LEJ\rr 8 J-Jo~v is TONIGHT 
Showtime is 8:30p.m. in front of Sorin Hall After the SMU Pep Railey. 
All are welcome. :-: 
----·~-~-~~-.~.-.~-.·...~~...~~.........................-:. 

Happy 2nd Birthday KINKO'S!!!!! 
To Celebrate KINKO'S is having a Free Copy Day! 1 00 Free Copies Today only Sale applies to 8.5 x 11 20# white only. Self serve or auto fed ONL Y.Offer good on 11/20 only. Limit one per customer per visit Not to be used with any other offers or discounts 
18187 State Rd. 23 271-0398 M-F 7am-11 pm
the copy center Sat-Sun 9-6 
r----@-----. 
THE HEALY COMPANY 
OFFERS YOU LOW COST TERM LIFE INSURANCE 
to help provide your family or business with the NEEDED protection. 
Annual Premiums for '250,()()011 Coverage* 
Age  Kale  Female  
~  s1u  n~  
~  ttoo  ~u  
45  '234  $209  
M  $ 525  $363  
M  ~~3  ~  

The Healy Co. brings you the best the insurance industry has to offer. For more information call Matthew J. McGraw, at219/289-4061. 
ONoa.~ p<d<nul nu:l. Priat Uadudco I UO poUq lie<. Smol«r ,_. II< tnibblc..,..,. r<q.,_, ­
Go Irish Beat SMU 

---------------~.---------------------------~~----~ 
Friday, November 10, 1989 The Observer page 19 
NO tennis enters Wise. Invite, eyes brutal spring schedule 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
It was 3:15 Thursday after­noon in Notre Dame men's tennis coach Bob Bayliss' office when Paul Odland, last year's No. 5 player, walked in and put on Rob Base's "It swict Two" over the PA system. 
"Coach, can I put on this mo­tivational music?" Odland asked Bayliss. "You'll love it," the Irish junior added as the sound began to vibrate in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Whether or not Bayliss would enjoy this music is definitely in doubt. but one thing for sure is that this year's Irish tennis squad will need every possible source of motivation it can gather up. 
Notre Dame takes on such national powers as Georgia, Texas, SMU and USC ( whom they fell to 5-4 already) in dual matches this season. 
The Irish will take all their motivation and more than two players to take on the top three Midwestern regional powers (Northwestern, Ball St. and host Wisconsin) in the Wisconsin Invitational this weekend at Madison, Wise. 
"This event gives us a chance to play some excellent teams in our region," said Bayliss. "We've faced players from all these teams throughout the fall so it gives us another chance to 

SHOP &.. DINE•••ONTHE 
EAST "'""""'""" 

~ ~BANK 
PRIME RIB •SEAFOOD/ ~ 
234-9000 . -../ 
-t::f:lt<lr+m=-t 

ArtGitW Cards 
BrtW Childrm's Comer 
Crystal Col/ectiblts 
D«ort~tiw Accessories David Winter Collages 
D«oys 

Dolls Men's Gifts
fwelry 
Kaltidoscopa Picture Frames 
Music Boxa 
CRABTREE &: EVELYN

Tom Clark's Gnomes 
Prints & Utho1raphs 
,_

Wind Chimes 
Pa-i1hts 
SoQps • Lctions

Year-around Christmas 
Silk FIOW<rJ 
Shampoos • Potpourri
Swarovsk/ Crystal 
Gourmtt Foods & Candies 

Free Giflwrappins .....Wc Ship Anywhere .....VISA, MASTERCARD 
12.1 S. Niles, Downtown South Bend Tdcphonc (21~ 232-8488 Monday • Saturday I 0:00 -9:00 Sunday I :00 -$:()() 
-


''THE GOLDEN DOME'' 
BY SCOTT L. HENDRIE 
LIMITED EDITION COMMEMORATIVE REMARQUE The Limited Edition is a 5-color lithograph. The Remarque of the football player is hand-drawn by the artist in pencil and colored pencil. PRICE $10ooo• 
GOLDEN DOME WITHOUT REMARQUE 950 in Edition/50 artist proofs PRICE $45°0 • 
Send check or VISA/MasterCard information to: 
HENDRIE DESIGN STUDIO • P.O. Box 0966 • Elkhart, IN 46515 Include your Name, Address, City, State, Zip Code&! Phone, Credit Card Number&! Expiration Date. 'All Christmas orders must be placed by December 6th, 1989. Price Includes shipping and handling. Indiana residents must add Indiana. 6% sales ta.x. 
see how we stack up. Without 
question, these teams are defi­
nitely at the top of the region. 
"It is going to be a challeng­
ing event; any one of our play­
ers could finish fourth or first 
(in their individual flight)." 
The top player in the field is 
Todd Martin of Northwestern. 
Martin is one of the top 15 
players in collegiate tennis, and 
he knocked off teammate Steve 
llerdoiza to capture the 1989 
Rolex Regional No. 1 flight 
Championship earlier this fall 
in Bloomington, Ind. 
According to Bayliss, Martin is the odds-on favorite to win the No. 1 flight. 
As for Bayliss & Co., the Irish are coming off an impressive showing in the Rolex Regional where they placed three players in the final 16 of the tourna­ment and an encouraging loss to No. 11 Southern Cal. 
Once again, Notre Dame will sport an extremely young team. Four of the six single spots and three of the six doubles posi­tions are filled by Notre Dame's best freshman class in history. 
The Irish boast one of the top three recruiting classes in col­legiate tennis. The headliner of the show is the Irish's No. 3 player Chuck Coleman. 
"Chuck is tremendously tal­ented," said Bayliss. "He has great wheels. Chuck can hurt you off both wings, but he 
defense," said Bankoske. "They like to hit, and they have a lot
Hockey 
of great skaters, so we have to continued from page 24 play solid defensive hockey." The Irish will depend on 
Dearborn faced off against 
Bankoske and linemates Tim 
the Irish six times last year, 
Kuehl (3 goals, 5 assists) and 
winning four and tying one. The 
Lou Zadra to do most of the 
lone Irish victory, a 4-1victory 
scoring this weekend. Bankoske 
last Nov. 4, occurred in the 
credits Zadra and Kuehl for 
first meeting between the two 
much of his success this sea­
teams. 
son. 

"If we're going to beat 
"Without them, I would never 
Dearborn this weekend, we're 
see the puck," says Bankoske,
going to have to tighten up on 
"Tim Kuehl is one of the hard-
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 
tiHU~~1:1:1 
BICYCLES •EXERCISERS ..BMX HEAUQUARTERS 
SALES -SERVICE ­

WINTER STORAGE AVAILABLE 
ROSELAND 

277-8866 
135 DIXIE WAYS. 

OFFICE OF 
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 
UniversiTy ol Notre Dome Notre Dome. IN 46556 
Llbrcr, Concoorw 119·1J9·6~J6 11oOon Hoii119•2J9-~2·2 
P!-RTS-ACCESSORIES 
... 

CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAy TUESDAY 10 AM-7 PM WEDNESDAY-SATURDAY 10 AM-5:30PM 
MISHAWAKA 
259-4862 
3835 LWE 
needs to be more consistent and play within himself. He is a tremendous talent. 
"(The freshmen) really give our team depth," continues Bayliss."We have the ability to handle injuri~s this year unlike last year. Moreover,' they are so talented that they are continu­ally pressuring each other. If you don't perform at a high level, you know someone is ready to step in." 
The influx of talent also has caused Bayliss to experiment with the doubles lineups the entire fall. 
"I don't thing I have ever jug­gled the lineup this much in my life." says Bayliss, 
est working right wings I've ever played with, and Lou Zadra has no qualms about banging somebody around in the corners to get that puck." 
Bankoske, Kuehl and com­pany have spent a great deal of time working on their power play the past two weeks. Schafer was disappointed with the way that the power play unit let him down two weeks ago in a 7-3 loss to Rochester Institute of Technology, and he has been stressing the importance of scoring with the man advantage ever since. 
"Our power play is still not perfected by any means," ad­mits Schafer. "We're trying to find the right combination. When you have the man advan­tage you have to find that extra man unguarded. If all else fails, we need to try the blast and crash approach, that is, we'll shoot often and go hard to the net for the rebound." 
St. Michael's Ukrainian ~yzantine Catholic Church 712 E. Lawrence St., Mishawaka 259-7173 Come worship with us... Sunday Divine Liturgy 9 AM 

Welcome Bishop D'Arcy 
Solemn Mass, 10:00 am, Sunday, November 12, 1989 
All the members of the Notre Dame family are warmly welcomed to participate in this special Mass, on the occasion of our bishop's annual pastoral visit to the University 
ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ATTENTION STUDENTS!! 
NOTRE DAME'S DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER NOW HIRING FOR THE 1990 SPRING SEMESTER 
20-30 Student Positions Available $4.70 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 6:45-1 0:45 All interested are invited to an informal Open House/Information Session at the Development Phone Center (southeast corner of Badin Hall) Monday November 13 or Tuesday November 14 From 4:00pm -5:00pm 
PLEASE JOIN US 
For more information, call Carol McClory 239-7938 or Mike Brach 239-7241 
• 

~------------~-­
page 20 The Observer Friday, November 10, 1989 
Irish fencers set to open season 
By CHRIS ALLIO Sports Writer 
Beginning tlwir JIJS9-90 sna­sons, the 1\:otrP Damn nwn's and wonwn's fPrH·ing tPams will trawl to Uniwrsity Park, Pa.. this WPI'kPml for tlw PPnn Stall' Opnn. 
Tlw Irish will eompntn against fifty sehools from both tho U.S. and Carmela. including traditional powPrhouses such as tlw Univnrsity of Pennsylvania, Columbia. and host PPnn State. 
"Though it is not tlw first collngiate l'VI'nt of thn season," said Irish ht>ad coach Mikn DnCiceo. "it is tlw first collnge tournanwnt of quality. This rornpPtition should serw as a yardstick for our progrnss." 
DeCicco is Pntnring his 29th sPason as hnad roach for the Irish. liP guidPd the mpn's squad last SPason to a pnrfnrt 21-0 nwPl reeord. along with first plan• honors in the Great l.ak11s rhampionships and an ovnrall fourth-place finish in thn nation. 
For the first time in recent memory, the foil team will have to do without the services of graduated four-time All­American Yehuda Kovaes. Freshmen Noel Young and Jeff Piper. both Australian natives, appear ready to piek up some of the slack. 
"Those two guys look like they will really be making a serious contribution." stated DnCieco. 
In addition. the Irish foil tPam has some top returnees in junior Phil Lnary and senior foil captain Joel Clark. Snnior Colin (;urnbs (Freeport, N.Y.) will travel as the fifth man on the foil squad. 
The Irish epee team is wide open following the losses of seniors Todd Griffee and Ted Fay, both NCAA championship participants last year. Sophomore David Calderhead seems hPir apparent to the munb11r-one position. 
"David this ynar is rnurh strongnr." said DnCieco, "and lw's also a lot quicker. I think we will hav11 a nic11 year from him." 
Sophomore Jubba Beshin (Orange, N.J.) should also add some dPpth to tlw epen team as he comes oiT a year of aca­demic ineligibility. A forrnnr foilist, senior DerPk llolernan is making thP transition to epee for this season. 
"()prpk can fpnce both foil and ep1w quite well," rmnarked DeCicco. "llownver. we feel that his personality and tnrnpera­rnPnt suit him better for the epee weapon." 
Matt Mergen returns after a year abroad. and will be joirwd this weekend by fellow epeeists GPoff Perhinsky (Danvers, Mass.) and Ben Finley. 
Tlw men's sabre team as well. suffl•red a tnrnporary setback wht~n top man Leszek Nowosielski opted to remain in Ottawa. Canada, for the dura­tion of the semester in order to qualify for international corn­petition with the Canadian na­tional team. Last year Nowosiclski, who will return in January, completed his seeond straight undefeated season for the Irish. 
Returning from last season for the sabre team will be brothers Ed and Chris Baguer (captain), sophomore Mark 
Lawless. junior Dave Kirby and senior Dan Yu. Ed Baguer is just rneently coming oiT compe­tition in Cuba at the Junior Pan-Am Gamns. Also joining the squad as a Holy Cross Junior Collnge transfer is James Taliaferro. 
"While Jim is quick on the fenei ng strip, he's still not as disciplined," stat11d DeCireo. "But his athll~tic ability should rnakn him very competitivn. Ultimately, the newcomers should ali b11 polislwd sabrn­rnen." 
Tlw women's foil team comes 
off it's first season out of the 
top-two in the NCAAs since 
Yv11s Auriol assunwd the reigns, 
despitn an 1S-1 season r11corcl. 
Fifth-year senior Kristin Kralicek brings much expnri­ence back to this ynar's team. Joining her am returrwrs IIPidi Piper (so ph., Brisbane, Australia), Lynn Kadri (junior. Chatham, N.J.), and Tara Kelly (soph.. Ft. Sam Houston. Tnx.) 
"llnidi Piper is fencing even a littln better than last year, per­haps from the pressure that she knows that she will have to come through," said DeCieeo. "She's definit11ly an integral part of our entire program." 

The Irish also will look to senior captain Anne Barreda in her first year back from Angers, France. 
''I'm anxious to see how Anne will do after a full year ofT," said DeCicco. "Shn's certainly 
got th11 talent and expPriencl1." 

WEEK-END LITURGIES AT STEPAN: 
Saturday, November 11: Eucharist, 5:00 PM at Stepan Center. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, 
C.S.C. presider. Faculty string trio. Sunday, November 12: Eucharist, 10:00 AM at Stepan Center. Most Rev. John D'Arcy, presider. Notre Dame Liturgical Choir, Liturgical Brass Eucharist, 11 :45 AM at Stepan Center. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. presider. Notre Dame Folk Choir 


Ol{1ENTAL t:YPR\:55 
Ch~es~ We~ameseand 
American Food 

Fresh Ingredients f>:'>29 l:lli\l'l'>ll\ (Oilli1Hll1' No Mass Productions ')outt1 tkll(t I·" 
272-6702 

I 
r 
TONIGHT 7:30 , 9:45
I 
I 
I 
t***** 
****************l 
~ 

iC -tc HIT THE BEACH! iC
iC 

~ Show your volleyball talent... ~ and take on the best beach volleyball duo in iC on the JACC Arena court
iC

iC Notre Dame's iC Beach Volleyball Night
iC 
iC 
iC 
~ 

iC 7:30 pm 
~ •Join the Irish, ~ volleyball 
iC 


The O:lserver I File Photo After a year that saw the men's squad post an undefeated regular­season record, the Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams open the 1989-90 campaign this weekend in the Penn State Open. 


Notre Dame 
Texas~:;lington 
iC 
iC 
I a,vball ~ iC 
~ 
South Bend iC iC ~ ~ 
-tc iC iC iC 
~ 

'First 1,000 fans  get free  32  oz.  Coca-Cola  squeeze  bottles!  
iC  The  Outpost  "Locals"  Challenge  ~  
~  'Sign up a team of up to four students at the Gate 10 entrance  ~  
~iCiC  •Five teams will be chosen to take on the best local male-female duo 'Beat the locals to 3 & win a valuable Outpost Sports gilt certificatel 'Come dressed to play--athletic shoes are mandatory!  ~ • ~  
iCiC  'Wear sunglasses to become eligible for the Notre Dame Serving Contest: win Notre Dame & Outpost sportwear or a Fisher stereo  ~ ~  
~ •  'Join the  Irish for a post-match Coca-Cola reception in above the court during the Outpost Challenge!  the  concourse  ~iC  
~ ~  COST: Just $2 for adults and $1 for students & youths under 16 Free Parking Enter Joyce ACC Gate 10  iCiC  
~  DON'T MISS THIS GREAT NIGHT OF NOTRE DAME VOLLEYBALL  •  

~******************;~********~ 
Saturday, Nov. 11 JACC iC 
Outpost Sports and Zip 104 for great intercollegiate iC as the Irish host the nation's 11th-ranked team 
iC iC 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 10, 1989 The Observer page 21 
NBC gets NBA package Milwaukee finally outlasts Seattle 
NEW YORK (AP)-NBC ec':'tive.. director of players' 
following five periods of overtime 
took the NBA away from umon. We were close to the 
CBS Thursday with a $600 million, four-year contract that could push average pro basketball salaries into the $1 million range next sea­son. 
The NBA is in the final season of a four-year, $173 million deal with CBS, which refused to meet the league's new pricetag. 
"It's a big increase, but one I think is justified," NBA commissioner David Stern said. 
'This makes the owners and players very happy," said Charles Grantham, ex-

BeAn OrangeBowl Buster 
$1 million per player pro­jected when the collective­bargaining agreement was signed" in 1988. 
Under the agreement be­tween the league and the NBA Players Association, 53 percent of the gross rev­enues go to player salaries. 
Stern said that for pur­poses of the salary cap, the contract was evaluated at $126 million for 1990-91. Under the formula, the salary cap would rise from $9.8 million to at least $11.5 million per team. It would increase even more if non­television revenues rise. 
MIAMI 
HURRICANES 
-VS­FIGHTING IRISH of NOTRE DAME 
Nov. 25, 1989 

Come on down to Miami /or this Football Classic. 
Special Room Rate Available Nov. 24th & 25th 
$57 
PerRoom Not PerPerson 


Single, Double, Quad. Centrally located only 5 minutes from the Orange Bowl. 
AIWo~.,\\arrtott. 
1201 Northwest LeJeune Road, Miami, Florida 33126 (305) 649-5000 

MARIGOLD MARKET 
• 

f~f:t~ 
~furop~Vl Meats 
·Ple~;.e a!IIaheM for 5Pet.i~ Iorders +requests· 

f ·, I \ I \ I ' J \ 
I 1. ' "· ; ' 

MILWAUKEE (AP) -Tony Brown's 3-point shot with 1:10 left in the fifth overtime put Milwaukee ahead to stay and the Bucks defeated the Seattle SuperSonics 155-154 Thursday night in the longest NBA game since the adoption of the 24­second clock 35 years ago. 
With the score tied 146-146, the Bucks outscored the Sonics 9-0, starting with Brown's 3­pointer from the left corner and ending with 34 seconds remaining on Jeff Grayer's lay­up which made the _score 155­146. 
Ricky Pierce had a career­high 36 points for Milwaukee before fouling out in the first overtime. Alvin Robertson added 28 points. Dale Ellis scored a career-high 53 points for Seattle, including 20 in the five overtimes, and Xavier McDaniel added 35. 
After Milwaukee's 9-0 run, Seattle countered with a 3­point basket by Dana Barros, a free throw by Nate McMillan and Sedale Threatt's rebound which made it 155-152. Seattle had a chance to tie the game but McDaniel's desperation 3­point shot missed. He was fouled by Humphries as time expired and his two free throws made it 155-154. 
Knicks 107, Nets 105 
NEW YORK (AP) -Charles Oakley had 17 of his 22 points and 11 of his 18 rebounds in the second half and Patrick Ewing's dunk with 1:22 left gave New York its first lead of the game. 
The Knicks, who trailed 62­42 in the final minute of the first half, came back from a 1 0-point deficit in the last nine minutes. They finally pulled ahead 106-105 on Ewing's dunk off an inbounds pass, giv­ing him 20 points in the game. New Jersey got 21 points from Chris Morris and 20 from Dennis Hopson. 
Nuggets 12t 
Rockets 121 
HOUSTON (AP) -Alex English hit an eight-foot jumper with four seconds left in overtime to give Denver the vic­tory. Fat Lever had only one point, seven assists and four rebounds at halftime but fin­ished with 19 points, 10 assists and 14 rebounds for his second consecutive triple-double. 
Reserve forward Bill Hanzlik scored eight of his 16 points in the fourth quarter as the Nuggets outscored 'the Rockets 30-24 to force the overtime. Otis Thorpe and Akeem Olajuwon each scored 33 points for the Rockets, who led by 18 in the first half. 
Lakers 10611­
Warriors 9a 
OAKLAND, Calif. -A.C. Green scored 24 points and grabbed 16 rebounds and Michael Cooper and Magic Johnson led a fourth-quarter Los Angeles runaway. 
The Lakers took advantage of the absence of Warriors center Alton Lister, out for the season with a a ruptured Achilles ten­don, to dominate the boards, 69-34, against their smaller opponents. 
Johnson had 19 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists and Cooper scored eight of his 11 points in the fourth quarter. Chris Mullin led the Warriors with 31 points and Mitch Richmond added 19. 

I~-------------------------------------·I 
1 F~T~~SS U~l~~HT~D A!E~O~~CS C~~T~R I 
I 

: Announces New Student Discount 
1 $2.00 per class * 
I LOW Impact Aerobics: Mon., Wed., Fri., Sun. 
I Mon., Wed. 
I HI I Low Impact Aerobics: Tues. & Thurs. 
: Super Shaping (no aerobics): Tues. & Thurs. Call 277-6329 for a complete
1 : \•_,; schedule 
: ,.FITNESS UNLIMITED ' Georgetown Center 
1 l (next to Shenanigan's)
1 

1 • Shock absorbent aerobics floor I •Trained, certified instructors I •Great workouts!! 
: * Full time students -show school I.D. ..• Bring this Ad in for one FREE workout (1st time customers, please) • ·­
0 IWANT TO GOTO GRADUATE SCHOOL. 0 PEOPLE SAY ISHOULD GO TO GRADUATE SCHOOL. 0 I'M NOT SURE. 
0 IWANT TO GO TO AMAJOR UNIVERSI1Y. 0 I PREFER ASMALL SCHOOL SEITING. D I'D LIKE BOTH. 
0 IWANT TO STIJDY FULL-TIME. 0 IWANT TO STIJDY PART-TIME. 0 I'M NOT SURE. 
D LOW TIJITION IS IMPORTANT TOME. 0 ASSISTANTSHIPS ARE IMPORTANT TO ME. 0 THEY'RE BOTH IMPORTANT. 

WYOLA E; •.I ~ UNIVERSITY
i: · -; CHICAGO 
~ 0 0B 
~"~~~.nc..~
<:,v1 JJV GRADUATE SCHOOL 
I 
: 
1 
4:15pm I 6:45pm I 7:45pm I 6:45pm : 
1 
I : 
1
1 
1 I 
II 

Loyola has more of what you program of scholarships, fellow­want in a graduate school. The ships, assistantships and grants feeling of a small, close-knit we lavish on full-time students. community in the heart of a The Graduate School Catalog great university. The cultural tells you about our 28 graduate and professional opportunities programs, and a lot more. Send offered by a cosmopolitan city. for it now. Or call312-508-3396. The possibilities of rewarding Mention this ad and we'll send employment for part-time stu­you a pencil, too! dents. And the $2 million 
,----------l 
1 Name 
I I 
Address______________ 

I City. State. ZiP------------­
1 College/Graduation Date __________ I
L ___ _ ______ j 
Send coupon to address below. 
Loyola University Chicago The Graduate School 6525 N. Sheridan Rd. Chicago. Il 60626 

. .__.................,......,.~~~~..,.-:--":"":"":""::"":-:-:_~-=--~-~-~-~-~-~-~----------_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--_-_-_-_-_-_.....­

Friday, November 10, 1989
The Observer 

Swim teams face Bowling Green after good peformance in Relays 
By JANICE ARCHER 
Sports Writer 
In their first road trip of the year. the Notre Dame men and women's swimming teams will take on Bowling Green at 4 
p.m. today. 
It will mark the 24th time the teams have competed against each other. with Bowling Green leading the series 16-7. 
Based on their impressive performance in the Notre Dame Relays last Friday. the Irish are well prepared to meet the Falcons. The Notre Dame men n~captured the crown from Texas Christian University in the 25th anniversary of the event. 
"It meant a lot to the team to win the title back for the silver anniversary," said captain Tom Penn. 
In the relays, the men's team scored 216 points to defeat Wabash. which earned second 
place in the six-team field with 
176 points. Notre Dame took 
nine first-place finishes, with victories in the 400-yard freestyle relay. the 500-yard crescendo relays, and a record­setting time of 4:08.44 in the 400-yard breaststroke, led by the squad of Ken Winko, Jay Nash, Greg Cornie and Ed Broderick. 
The two-man team of Bill Campbell and John Godfrey posted a win in the 1000-yard freestyle relay with a time of 10:00.48, and the duo of Ed Veome and Pat Dugan swept the one-meter and three-meter diving relay contests. 
"The victory was definitely a measurement of our improved depth and balance," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. 
The team is nearing the end of a period of intense training. 
,· 
-... 

The <hleNerI File Pholo Jamere Jackson repeats his duties as a co-captain of the Notre Dame basketball team this season. Joe Fredrick, the leading scorer on last season's 21-9 squad, also is a returning co-captain for the Irish. 

Israel 
continued from page 24 
game last year, while Jackson scored at a 13.5 dip. 
The remaining seniors are Keith Robinson (12.3 ppg, 9.3 rebounds) and Scott Paddock 
(2.7 ppg, 4 rebounds). 
"We've got seniors who know it's their last shot," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "This team has a lot of confidence. I thought last year we really showed a lot of improvement as a basketball team as the season went along." 

Over the six days of fall break, the swimmers logged 75,000 meters. They are building to­ward the National Catholic Meet, held at Fordham during the first week of December. The meet at Bowling Green today will allow them to find out just how much the grueling prac­tices have helped them. 
"Hopefully, we will see our hard training pay off," says Penn. 
After the teams return, their practices will be tapered down in yardage and in intensity. 
The meet today holds an added significance for Coach Welsh. The trip to Bowling Green was his first road trip event with Notre Dame. 
"It is a water mark for me because this was my first away meet five years ago," said Welsh. "It will be interesting to see what our improvement has been in the last five years." 
Flanner, Zahm in IH soccer finals 
By CHRIS FILLIO 
Sports Writer 

Defending champion Flanner will play Zahm A for the lnterhall soccer title Sunday afternoop. 
The championship match is scheduled for 1 p.m. at Stepan Fields. 
Flanner and Zahm reached the finals after a week full of playoff action at the Stepan fields. 
On Tuesday, Dillon A knocked off previously unbeaten 
Irish 
continued from page 24 

can think of, they're good at." 
Texas-Arlington is led by Chris Rudiger, who has 337 kills and 302 digs, both team highs. Shawn Sweeten has ac­cumulated 1,047 assists from the setter position. 
Notre Dame will be coming into the match looking to end a three-match losing streak by creating a stronger service game. 
"We must serve better if we expect to win," said Perez. "Along with that, if we play like 
Pangborn, while Flanner 
handily defeated Alumni. 
"Pangborn was really a good 
team," said Flanner coach Sean 
Fieber, "with some players who 
used to play varsity." 
Those results set up a con­·test between Dillon A and Zahm 
A for the right to face Flanner 
in the final game. Dillon's goal 
came with approximately eight 
minutes left in the first half on 
a crossing shot that eluded the 
Dillon keeper. 
"Zahm really controlled the play in the first half," said 
we are capable of playing, we should have no problems." 
As of late, the Irish have been very slow starters, losing the first two games in many of their matches. Against Iowa. Illinois, and Northwestern, the Irish have fallen behind early, but rallied to push the match to five games before losing. 
This type of match has proved to be very exciting in most aspects exeept in the win column. 
"For us to win, we must focus our energy on ourselves," said Perez. "It should be an exciting weekend if we play up to our potential and reaeh our goals." stated Perez. "Whatever you Dillon's Brnndan Sheehan, "but we came baek in the second. The conditions were a factor somewhat. with the rain and the darkness." 

Sheehan also noted that the speed of the Zahm squad, along with a shorthanded 12-man Dillon team, contributed to the Zahm vietory. 
Flanner coach Sean FiebN is confident about his team's chances of repeating as cham­pions. 
"I think that all-around, we have the best team," said Fieber. 
District 
continued from page 24 

nationals. citing Lucy Nusrala as the likely top finisher for the Irish. Nusrala, a sophomore, has placed first for Notre Dame in every race this season. 
"If Lucy finishes in the top 10, then she will have run very well," said Connelly. "but that's not a realistic goal -we're just not at that caliber yet. We'd just like to go out there and represent Notre Dame well." 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
Distinctive Golf Apparel & Equipment With Exclusive Notre Dame Logos 
Open This Weekend 
Friday 6:30am -4:00pm Saturday 6:00am -1 hour before game time Sunday 6:00am -4:00pm 
LOCATED "ON THE CURVE" IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 

WASHINGTON HALL
•••••••A 
J m i s s ion i s free 



Friday, November 10, 1989 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 
"You guys are both witnesses .•. He laughed when my marshmallow caught on fire." 




Friday 
4 p.m. Peace Studies presents, "After the Cold War: What?" by Seyom Brown, Brandeis University, Room 121 Law School. 
8:15p.m. Notre Dame Chorale in concert, Washington Hall. 
Saturday 
9:30 a.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous and At-Anon, Center for Social Concerns. 
Sunday 
4 p.m. Film, "Peace Keeping Up: Ending Nicaragua's Other War," Center for Social Concerns. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Chicken Fried Steak Batter Fried Fish Chicken Tettrazini Beef Pot Pie Mushroom Stroganoff Cheese & Veggie Strata Law School Grill Deli Bar 
ACROSS 33 Temporary loss 51 Do a double of breath take
1 Author Hamill 34 Neck and neck 54 Equivoke

5Con­(tenderly) 35 Moroccan 57 End of the quip mountains 
so To the sheltered 36 Screams, to side 10 Wire measure 
13 Satanic Simone 61 Ade book 14 Patten's cousin 
37 Obey the alarm 

62 Hebrides island 15 Lagomorph 38 Compressed
16 Start of a quip 63 Part of r.p.m. 
cotton pad 

19 Coterie 64 Lowly laborers 
39 Kady or petasus 20 Twin in "The 65 Cry of disgust 
40 Punkie

Other" 41 Usher's beat 
21 Noel Coward's "To Step-" 42 More of the quip DOWN 
22 Conditions 46 Started the 1 Throws 
bridge game 

23 Sluggard's 2 Cry at Pan's 
suggested role 47 Tidbit for Seattle 
partiesmodel Slew 
3 Joust 24 More of the quip 48 Unflappable 
4 Sprite 5 Town near Perugia 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE s Shopping center 7 Drama award 8 South Korean 
G.l's 9 Juin, juillet et 
aout 10 Dress length 11 Angered 12 --majeste 
-=-t:::::-f.::+.::-1 15 Waste maker 
17 Below: Prefix 18 Chinese dynasty 22 Roman dates 
-:':+7+.:':+.:'-1 23 Tops -=+:-:+~:=-! 24 Trump's Princess, e.g. 
25 Talk-show hostess Winfrey 26Wed 27 Early sci-fi writer 28 Kind of mineral 
water 29 Seed coat 30 Claptrap 
31 Nobleman's 
inheritance 32 Frequently 37 Like good 
cheese 
38 Bollard 41 ".. -which will live in infamy 
...": F.D.R. 43 Dance smoothly 44 Receipt, in 
Reims 45Buenas­(good night, in 
Granada) 48 Exchange 49 Mah-jongg 
piece 50 Nonesuch 51 To laugh, in Lille 52 Within: Comb. 
form 53 Squire in "The Faerie Queene" 54 Adjective for 
Yorick 55 Forearfn bone 56 Bandbox 58 Baby food 59 Secreted 

f~\VA~-4:C!>~ 
obs-tnG\tCDucst-~Gu<rl 
fUNf7Ai-Nw. 12. <rtti::I:K 7TR~AK 'fl1 -~~~~ 
r\t\d~M{M\'l~V\ up ~:DO $S b\~ 1ft. Ruvt 4:OC fRll1~\tb> for runrt5 
V\9'1\~: (FnQny) 11 S~~ ~Ni1l\\N~ 11 ~n\~ 1\ud\tor\uW\ e:oo ~ \b:\S s2ro 
_. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

• 
Sports
page 24 Friday, November 10, 1989 
NO cross country teams readyfor District Meets 
Men are competing for berth to NCAAs 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
It's do or die time for the Notre Dame men's cross r.ountry tnam. 
Tlw Irish travel to Ypsilanti, Mich., this week­end to eompetn in the NCAA District IV meet on Saturday, hoping to earn a berth at the NCAA Championships scheduled for Nov. 20. 
The District Meet qualifies only four teams out of :-19 to participate in the NCAAs, which means that unless the Irish finish in the top four tomorrow, they can hang up their sneakers for the rest of the year. 
That doesn't seem like it would bn any prob­lem for the Irish, the ninth-ranked team in the lat11st national coaches' poll. But the competi­tion may have other ideas. 
The Irish an~ racing in the toughest district in the nation. with two teams besides Notre Dame ranked in the top 20, including Big Ten cham­pion Wisconsin. The Badgers have won the na­tional championship for the last two years, and should be the obvious favorites in Saturday's race. 
Also vying for an NCAA berth will be Central Michigan, another top 20 team and the only 

Irish women wanting to end year strongly 
By BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Damn women's cross country team will face its last test of the season Saturday in the NCAA Distriet Mnnt at Eastern Michigan University. 
Having placed 15th in this meet last year, thP Irish hope to fare better thil' year against an equally strong field. 
"We'd like to improve from last year," said Irish coach Tim Connelly. "If every kid runs the race of their life, then it's possible we could be in the top I 0, but that's what it will take." 
Said senior captain Wendy Murray, "Our goal is to be in the top 10, but it's going to be a really competitive meet." 
Murray added that the team's disappointing 
second-place finish at the MCC championships 
two weeks ago may help boost the team's 
performance at the upcoming meet. 
"No one on the team wants to end the season 
on a down note," said Murray. "We know that 
we can do better than wn'vn dorw, and we'rn 
really ready to do well. We've had some good 
practices sinee our last meet, and we're 
mentally ready for this race." 

sehool this ynar to have defeated the Irish. In this weekend's District IV Meet, the Notre Dame men's cross Connelly thinks it unlikely that any individual Illinois, Western Michigan, Ohio University and country will be looking to claim its third consecutive trip to the NCAA runners from Notre Dame will qualify for Championships. The Irish have finished among the top 1 0 in the nation 
see DISTRICT I page 22 

see RUNNERS I page 16 each of the last two seasons. 
Irish hockev to play UM-Dearborn 
Bankoske follows through on vow, leads team in scoring 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
It's time for Dave Bankoske and the Notre Dame hockey team to switch gears. 
After pummeling hapless Holy Cross by scores of 10-4 and 9-2 last weekend. Bankoske and his teammates will face a very tough Michigan-Dearborn squad in a horne-and-home series this Friday and Saturday night. 
The Irish will take on the Wolves tonight at 8:30 in the north dome of the Joyce ACC, and then travel to Dearborn for 7 p.m. rnatchup Saturday. 
Bankoske, a sophomore cen­ter from Williamsville, N.Y., has started the season off with a bang. lie leads the team in scoring with 10 points {7 goals, 3 assists) and recorded his first hat trick of his collegiate ca­reer by netting three goals against Holy Cross last week­end. 
.. 
• 

Dave Bankoske 
This goal-scoring outburst came as a bit of a surprise to ~me of those familiar with Bankoske's style of play, as he had served primarily as a playrnaker last year in his first season with the Irish. 
The smooth-skating center made up his mind not to pass up scoring opportunities this season, however, and so far he has kept his vow. 
"You can never score enough goals," remarks Bankoske. 
The Observer I Steve Moskop 
"We're facing a couple of very strong teams these next two weekends, and chances will not be as plentiful, so I plan to take advantage of the scoring op­portunities that I do have." 
This attitude pleases Irish coach Ric Schafer immensely. 
"We've been encouraging Dave to shoot more since he carne here last year," says Schafer, "He is a very gifted hockey player with the innate ability to score goals. We need him to do just that -score goals -because he'll probably log more ice time than any other player this year." 
Bankoske's goal-scoring prowess will be in great de­mand against Dearborn. The Wolves enter the weekend with a 4-4 record (the Irish are 3-1 ), and are coming off last week­end's two-game sweep of Iowa State in which they outscored the Cyclones by a total of 14-1. 
see HOCKEY I page 19 
Irish basketball team to face Israeli squad 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
After playing against each other for the past month, the Notre Dame men's basketball team finally gets a chance tonight to see how it fares against some outside competition. 
The Irish will meet lfapoel Galil Elyon Club, better known as Israel, at 7:30 
p.m. Friday in the Joyce ACC. It will be the only preseason contest for Notre Dame. 
The Irish had been sched­uled to play the Sibenik team from Yugoslavia, but a change in the conference schedule forced that team to stay home. Notre Dame de­feated Yugoslavia 81-78 last year. 
This will be the first stop in a H)-game tour for Isra1~l. The remainder of the sched­ule includes DePaul. Loyola, Cleveland State and a group of teams from the Mid American Conference. 
Israel boasts three players with collegiate experience in America. Andrew Kennedy playnd at Virginia, David Blatt at Princeton, Stephen Malovic at Arizona State and Brad Leaf at Evansville. 
Notre Dame will bB with­out the services of sopho­more LaPhonso Ellis, who is academically ineligible at least until the end of this semester. Ellis scored 21 points for the Green team in Sunday's intrasquad scrim­mage. 
The Irish return all of their players from last season's 21-9 squad. Co­captains Joe Fredrick and Jamere Jackson lead the returnees. Fredriek averaged 16.7 points per 
see ISRAEU page 2~ 


Running into the good and the bad 
NO volleyball hosts weak UIC, No. 10 Texas-Arlington 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
Both the best and the worst of college volleyball will be on display at the Joyce ACC this weekend to challenge a struggling Notre Dame squad. 
Illinois-Chicago, the team on the weaker end of the spec­trum, will face the Irish at 7:30 tonight in the Joyce ACC Pit, rather than the Main Arena which houses most of Notre Dame's home matches. 
The following evening, Notre Dame, 12-15, will challenge tonight's match holding an 11­16 record, with most of the Flames' wins corning against area opponents. 
Earlier in the year, Illinois­Chicago lost in five games to Big Ten representative Northwestern, a team that beat the Irish this week in five games 15-12, 15-12, 6-15, 14­16, 15-7. 
"We are going to have to play as if they are national champi­ons," said Notre Dame assis­tant Maria Perez. "If we take them lightly, they'll come at us and keep coming at us." 
strong arm of Dee Dee Erieks, who has recorded 437 kills and a team high 414 digs. Carolyn Fisk will handle the setting du­ties for Illinois-Chicago. 
"They are not a tall team. but they are scrappy and rnlent­less," stated Perez. "We must focus in on ourselves if we plan to beat this team." 
On Saturday night, the scene changes for the Irish as they take on a strong Texas­Arlington team. The Mavericks sport an impressive 21-3 record and are in the midst of a 

1Oth-ranked Texas-Arlington The Irish lead the lifetime 15-ma~ch winning streak.
Alicia Turner (9) and the Notre Dame volleyball team have a pair of 
at 7:30 p.m. in the .JACC Main series 2-0 with wins in 1986 "They are a very good team,"
home matches this weekend, facing Illinois-Chicago and Texas­
Arena. and 1987.
Arlington. The freshman duo of Turner and Jessica Fiebelkorn has 
Illinois-Chicago comes into Illinois-Chicago is led by the see IRISH I page 22 
been one of the brightest points of the season for the Irish. 




