
Cool rays
Ietc.: Astronaut profile Cold and sunny today with highs around 22. Saturday sunny and warmer, high of 35.
IVIEWPOINT: Keeping King's dream alive 



VOL. XXII, N0.94 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1989 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Petition protests 350 percent raise, fee increase by GSU 
By BRADLEY GALKO Staff Reporter 
Graduate students this week petitioned University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy to protest a Feb. 14 GSU vote in­creasing the 1989 budget, which would include a 350 percent stipend raise for GSU officers and an activity fee increase. 
The 29-member Graduate Student Union Council voted 11 to 5 to raise both the annual salary of each officer 350 per­cent, from $400 to $1,400 and student activity fee from $20 to $25, said GSU President Victor Krebs. 
Krebs did not specify what the increased budget would be used for, but said the salary in­creases were intended to at­
tract  "responsible  and  com­ 
mitted  leaders"  as  GSU  
officers.  

"(The increased salaries) al­low people to see this as an al­ternative part-time job, which 
Number seeking asylum declines under new laws 
Associated Press 
BAYVIEW, Texas • The number of Central Americans seeking pblitical asylum declined again Thursday under tough new immigration rules that place most of them in jail. 
Critics of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Rio Grande policy said refugees would just be driven to other border cross­ing points or go under­ground. 

is what it should be seen as," 
he said.  
"(The  petition)  suggests  
rather  misleadingly  that  we  
are  trying  to  raise  our  own  

salaries," Krebs said. 
He said this was not the case because, despite nominations, none of the current officers will run for re-election next year. 
"There are no graduate stu­dents that consider this as a vi­able option, because they don't have the time," Krebs said. 
Chris Kennedy, a graduate physics student who organized the petition, said the GSU mis­handled the Feb. 14 meeting which decided the increases, failing to notify council repre­sentatives about either the meeting or the issues. 
No mention was made in the Feb. 14 "Grad News" newslet­ter about the magnitude of the raise or the fact that a vote would be taken about the raise that evening, Kennedy said. 
Because the meeting was 

Only eight applicants were processed Thursday mor­ning, cOmpared to some 50 Wednesday and 233 Tues~ day, the day the tougher rules went into effect. 
Of all those applicants, · only two had been granted asylum by Thursday and the rest were put in barracks at the INS Port Isabel Service Processing Center here~ 15 miles from Brownsville, or in a Red Cross Shelter in Brownsville. 
see ASYLUM, page 9 
held on Valentine's Day during a Notre Dame home basketball game, many representatives did not attend, he said. 

Details were not published in the newsletter because "noth­ing had been decided prior to the meeting," Krebs said, but added that departmental rep­resentatives were informed of the meeting. 
The representatives are re­quired to attend monthly GSU meetings and are reminded by mail with the issues for discus­sion, Krebs said. The newslet­ter also invited all grad stu­dents to attend, he added. 
Only 18 council members at­tended the Feb.14 meeting and two abstained from the vote to increase the GSU officers' stipends and activity fee, Krebs said. Only 62 percent of the council's 29 members atten­ded, he said. Thirteen of the 24 graduate department repre­sentatives attended. 
see GSU, page 4 


Senate committee votes to reject Tower nomination 
Associated Press vote, majority Democrats said they felt no joy in opposing WASHINGTON-The Senate 
Armed Services Committee voted Thursday to reject John Tower's nomination as defense secretary, splitting 11-9 along party lines as it handed Presi­dent Bush the first major defeat of his administration. 
The full Senate is expected to make a final decision on the nomination next week. 
During two and one-half hours of debate, mostly in the form of speeches before the 

Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., chairman of the Senate hour closed-door session to discuss the nomination Armed Services Committee, right, meets with of John Tower as Defense Secretary. Sen. John reporters on Capitol Hill Wednesday after a three-Warner, R-Va., looks on at left. Story above right. 
Set them free The Observer1 ZOitan ury 

'­
Michelle Byrne, a junior, writes a letter for the annual NOOMC Amnesty International Write-A-Thon. The letters are written on behalf of Amnesty's South African and death penalty cases. 
Tower but were compelled to do so. Some cited allegations over the past month of ex­cessive drinking and of womanizing. 
Republicans alleged par­tisanship and suggested Tower was held to too high a standard. Sen. Malcolm Wallop of Wyoming said, "The majority believes we are confirming a defense god, not a defense sec­retary." 
· In Tokyo, where Bush was at-


World leaders at funeral of Hirohito 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -The world's royal and powerful joined Japan on Friday in a final farewell to Hirohito, the emperor-god who was made mortal by a dis­astrous war and died in J anu­ary after a reign of 62 years. 
Nine Shinto priests in white robes waved holy branches 
related story, page 4 

· Thursday to purify the mausoleum in a hilly wooded area where the former Son of Heaven will be buried. 
At the Imperial Palace priests performed a private Shinto rite inside that began 13 hours of funeral ceremonies. 
Heads of state including President Bush, royalty and other representatives of 163 countries were present for the funeral. They were protected by 32,000 police. 
The officers checked cars and patrolled streets in case of attacks by foreign terrorists or by Japanese radical groups that threatened to disrupt the ceremonies. 
Police in Nagasaki said a let­ter containing a bullet and a death threat was sent on Wed­nesday to Mayor Hitoshi Motoshima, who had said Hirohito bore some responsibil­ity for World War II. The mayor was in Tokyo for the fu­neral. 
Opponents of the Imperial system held at least three peaceful rallies Thursday eve-
see FUNERAL, page 7 
tending the funeral of Japanese Emperor Hirohito, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the president was sticking by Tower and "there's no consideration of any change, period." 
"We now go to the floor" of the Senate, Fitzwater declared. He said the commit­tee had "every right to look into" allegations about Tower. But he also complained, "We hear vague talk about concern 
see TOWER, page 7 


-
page 2 
IN BRIEF 
Touche Ross & Co. has made a $250,000 commitment to Notre Dame to establish an endowed fund for the faculty of the department of accountancy. "We are grateful to Touche Ross for this important commitment, and we look forward to the many ways in which it will benefit the whole University by invigorating the study of accountancy at Notre Dame," said University President Father Ed­ward Malloy. 
-The Observer 
OF INTEREST 
The Observer Friday, February 24, 1989 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Advice to freshmen applies to seniors, too 
Last semester, I had an interesting conversa­tion with a freshman who lived in my dorm. Beth She was experiencing the rituals of freshman registration and orientation and wanted to hear Healy firsthand, from an upperclassman who had ac­tually survived freshman year, what was in 
Accent Editor 
store for her. Not only was she overwhelmed 

Third World Awareness Week concludes today 
with a free showing of "Salvador" at 8 p.m. in Hayes­
Healy, room 122. 
-The Observer 

Logan Center Snow lnnertubing will take place Saturday from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Van pick up at St. Mary's Holy Cross Hall at 9:30a.m. and at ND Main Circle at 9:45a.m. For more information, call Jim at 283-3795 or Karen at 283-4950. 
-The Observer 

A Stage Manager is needed for the Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Produdion of "The Power and the Glory." See COTH Chairman Mark Pilkinton in 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall to apply. 
-The Observer 

Auditions for the Notre Dame Communication and Theatre production of "The Power and the Glory" will be held Sunday at 1:00 p.m. in the Laboratory Theatre of Washington Hall. They will continue Monday at 7:00 p.m. on the main stage. Call-backs will be Tuesday. 
-The Observer 

Absentee voting for student body ]presidential elections will take place today until4: 00 p.m. AU interested in voting must go to the secretary on the 2nd floor of LaFortune to pick up a ballot. 
-The Observer 

March on Washington is a re-enactment of the August 28, 1963 march that will take place tonight. The march is sponsored by the NMMC clilapter of the NAACP and will commence from the North and South Dining Halls and the Main Circle at 6:00p.m. The group will meet on the steps of the Administration Building or at the CSC if weather is unfavorable. Bring candles for the vigil. 
-The Observer 

Scholastic Football Review is now available to off-campus students from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the Scholastic office in room 303 of LaFortune. -The Observer 
J-Board Chairpersons materials for Student Body Elections will be available in the Student Government offices today. 
-The Observer 

The Morrissey Manor Film Festival will be held today at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. The festival will feature short films made by each dor­mitory and awards honoring the best entries will be pre­sented. 
-The Observer 

Notre Dame Chorale and Orchestra present Maurice Durufle's "Requiem" and Gabriel Faure's "Can­tique de Jean Racine" on February 26, at 8:00 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
-The Observer 

Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune~ Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campu~ and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials arid determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor .................. Laura Stanton Etc. Editor ............................ John Blasi Deoign Assistant ............. Janice O'Leary Etc. Copy Editor ................. Mike Restle Typesetters .................... Molly Schwartz Etc. Designer..... Tim 'Moon Dog' Irvine ............................................ Dan Towers Typists ... ............................. Sue Barton News Editor ....................... Tim O'Keefe ............................................ Rosi Lozada Copy Editor .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. Kelley Tuthill ND Day Editor ................ Betsy Mennen Sparta Copy Editor ........... Theresa Kelly SMC Day Editor ............. Alissa Murphy Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Janice O'Leary Photographer ........................ Zoltan Ury Viewpoint Layout .......... Tricia Grohman 
'AI o..n. (USPS S99 2-4000) is publislled Monday throuab Friday except durina cum and vacation periods. n.Ollllnw is published by the students of the University of Nocrc o.mc and Saint Mary's CoiJeac. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per scmcstcr) by wrilinl 'AI o..n.. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dune, Indiana 46556. 
'AI Ollllnw is a member of 'AI ~... ...._ All reproduction ripta arc ..-ved. 
by the new policies, faces, names and Notre ----~------::-:::=::----~~:::-1 
Dame in general, but she was also worried that {~ 
she didn't know exactly what she wanted to do '-~./ 
after college. 

"I can't decide whether I want to go into in­
ternational law with a subspecialty in contracts 
and banking, or if I want. to work for National 
Geographic. What should I major in?" she said. 
"Why don't you wait until October break to 
decide how you want to spend your life?" I said. 
"That will take some of the pressure off." 
Then she asked me what I was going to do 
after I graduated. I told her that I had a variety 
of options, but like her, I didn't know what I 
wanted to do. 

"Well, aren't you nervous about not 
knowing?" she asked. 


x;•. ,,
I told her that I'd rather wait than make a 
rash decision. I remember as a freshman I also 
had elaborate plans for an exciting career after 
graduation. The threat of uncertainty was 
something that worried me more than the im-'--""------------~-----' 
mediate threat of Chemistry 101. It was ab­
solutely necessary that I know what I could do too late to change anymore. They won't believe 
with this education after graduation, otherwise you, even if you and all of your friends have 
I would have no purpose or reason to do well. experienced it. I have a friend who has declared 
It didn't take me long to change my goals, a major in every college at Notre Dame, from however, from specific plans to uncertain architecture, to pre-med, to anthropology to plans. I had been so afraid of failing in life that business. She finally decided on biology when 
I had overlooked what was happening to me she was a junior.
right then. When I started my last year at Notre Dame I wanted so badly to succeed that I needed this fall, I admit that I was nervous about choos­to pick something that sounded good, and then ing the right path in life. I wanted to make the 
succeed at it, instead of trying different things right decision because, after all, that's what I and just letting things take their own course. I would be doing for the rest of my life. found that I had interests in things that surprised me and it also eased my fears of un­It took me awhile, but I finally came to the certainty that loomed in my future. conclusion that not many decisions are written 
It was as important for me to select a career, in stone, I could always try something different as well as a major, as soon as possible. I didn't if I didn't like it. I didn't have to plan out the want to be one of "those" seniors who didn't rest of my life at 22. I didn't have to decide have definite plans in life. I talked to my R.A. everything immediately. as a freshman, and explained to her my uneasi­ness about life after graduation. She laughed I realized, after talking to this freshman, that and guaranteed that I would change my mind I was trying to do again what I had done as a about everything I thought I wanted. freshman. I was trying to do everything at once, 
Of course, I didn't believe her. Now as a in order to avoid uncertainty. It only took a senior, I'm on the other side of the field. confused freshman to remind an even more con­
Try to tell freshmen that they will change fused senior that sooner or later, I would figure their minds at least twice a semester until it is it all out. 
BRING THIS COUPON r--------------------------------------·ALL COMPACT DISCS i Z: ~I ~ $2 OFF ~I rn 0 1 ~ c:: I ~ ALL CDS PRICED $10.99 & OP••NO LIMIT (3 I t­:Z I EXCLUDES SALES ITEMS AND USED CDS 1I I L-~~~2~22~~.!!!;!.:~.!-N.?.!-~2!!!!1!1-~~~1!..2~!!~--J maxell XLII 90 11 pack now $20.88 maxell XLIIS 90 11 pack now $23.88  
10-9 Daily Cor. of Edison 11-7 Sunday & So. Bend Ave.TRACKS 277-8338 Just off Notre Dame campus  

-~----~------~----------~ 
Friday, February 24, 1989 
Rep. indicted for sex with teenager 

Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -U.S. Rep. Donald Lukens, a conser­vative Republican, was in­dicted Thursday on a mis­demeanor charge that he had sex with a teen-age girl. 
The 58-year-old congress­man, who is divorced, declared he was innocent. 
The charge stems from a meeting, secretly videotaped by a television station, between Lukens and the girl's mother, who contended Lukens paid for sex with her daughter four years ago when the girl was 13 and again last November. 
The four-term congressman was charged with contributing to the unruliness and delin­quency of a child. The offense carries up to six months in jail and a $1,000 fine. 
A state grand jury accused him of having sex with the girl on Nov. 6, when she was 16, in his Columbus apartment. The girl is now 17. 
In a statement issued in Washington, Lukens said: "I do categorically deny that I contributed to the delinquency and unruliness of a minor at any time, and I further categorically deny the ac­curacy of the alleged facts upon which the charge was ap­parently based. I am innocent of the charge brought forth today." 
Lukens, who is from Mid­dletown, about 30 miles north of Cincinnati, and represents a rural district, said he was "pleased that the grand jury found no evidence for the basis of serious charges." 
The House Ethics Commit­tee, which has the jurisdiction over allegations of wrongdoing by lawmakers, typically waits for the outcome before taking an action in cases where mem­bers have been charged in court. 
A criminal conviction does not automatically bar a legis­lator from sitting in Congress. 
Franklin County Prosecutor Michael Miller said he had rec­ommended a different charge than the one returned, but he would not elaborate. Miller also said he recommended an additional charge against Lukens for an alleged incident in 1985, when the girl was 13. Jurors determined there was insufficient evidence because of conflicting testimony from the girl, he said. 
No date for a court appear­ance was set for Lukens. 
Columbus television station WSYX on Feb. 1 broadcast a videotape that showed Lukens apparently offering a govern­ment job to Anna Coffman after she asked why he was "mess­ing around" with her daughter. The station videotaped the Nov. 11 meeting at a fast-food' restaurant in Columbus after Coffman contacted the station. 
Lukens told Coffman he thought her daughter was an adult, according to the videotape. "Well, first of all, I didn't really know she was a teen-ager. I didn't know that, no. I do now, of course," Lukens said. 
The FBI and prosecutors reviewed the tape but said they found no evidence of bribery. 
Lukens was first elected to Congress in 1966 and served two terms. He lost a bid for governor in the 1970 GOP pri­mary. He returned to Congress in 1986 and was re-elected in November. 



ATTENTION: Grad Students, Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

The Observer I .loltan Ury 

which included parody and music, also encouraged audience participation. 
Fed will ease way for bank holding companies to buy troubled S&Ls 
.Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan, saying a sepa­rately regulated thrift industry may not be needed in the fu­ture, told Congress Thursday that the Fed will make it easier for bank holding companies to buy troubled Savings and Loans. 
Greenspan, testifying before the Senate Banking Commit­tee, also said the central bank and the Treasury Department have arranged to support the Federal Home Loan Bank sys­tem in the event of runs on S&Ls. 
The Fed Chairman's com­ments came as opposition to President Bush's 333-page S&L proposal grew among mem­bers of Congress fighting to preserve a separate S&L indus­try.

At a hearing of the House Banking Committee, Rep. Richard Lehman, D-Calif., complained that Bush would give banks preference in buying up S&Ls and turn the oversight and regulation of the thrifts over to bank regulators. 
"Rather than heal the wounds, your plan might actu­ally put it (the S&L industry) out of its misery,'' Lehman told Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady. 
The secretary denied any "intention on our part to deliver up the S&L industry to the banking industry." 
Earlier. Brady had said that S&Ls are an important part of the nation's commitment to af­fordable housing and that the administration ''assures the emergence of a healthy and strong S&L industry." 
Sen. Donald Riegle, D-Mich., chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, said Brady's evaluation seems to conflict with comments by Greenspan, who said the ad­ministration's proposal does not prejudge whether the thrift industry will survive. 
"My own judgment is that, at the end of the day, thrifts will look a lot more like banks than they do now, but there will still be thrifts," Greenspan said. "Ultimately it's going to be the markets that are going to determine the banking struc­ture in this country." 
In November and December, a record $15 billion flowed out of the nation's S&Ls. 

JUST LOOK AT WHAT YOU COULD WIN AT ..... . 
'DINNER FOR TWO AT CHI CHI'S 
'GIFT CERTIFICATE FOR FUN· TAN (GREAT JUST BEFORE BREAK) 'DINNER FOR TWO AT THE MORRIS INN 'GIFTCERTIFICATE FOR YOUR FAVORITE RECORDS AND TAPES 'MOVIE PASSES ON AND OFF CAMPUS­' A GUMBALL FISH TANK 'ANN D FIESTA BOWL GIFT PACKAGE 'DINNER FOR TWO AT MACRI'S 'AND MORE!!!!! 
(j{RJI.'J{'!J pqUZ'E MI'lJW(jJf'T '1J1?JI.WI7{(i 
CHAUFFEI'I DRIVEN LIMOUSINE ALL THE WAY TO CHICAGO FOR DINNER AT THE PAVILION RESTAURANT AND TICKETS TO A CHICAGO THEATRE PRODUCTION FOR YOU AND YOUR DATE. 
TICKETS AVAlLABLE AT THE DOOR FOR $3.00. COME WITH OR WITHOUT A DATE FOR YOUR CHANCE AT THESE GREAT PRIZES TO BE GIVEN AWAY EVERY FIFTEEN MINUTES. 
FRIDAY AT THE NORTH DINING COMMONS AT 9:00PM 

Friday, February 24, 1989 
Bush meets with Arab leaders during funeral 

Associated Press 

TOKYO -President Bush used the occasion of Friday's imperial Japanese funeral to pursue a Middle East peace, while his secretary of state challenged the Soviet Union to pitch in with deeds instead of "simply rhetorical exercises." 
On the eve of the services for the late Emperor Hirohito, Bush engaged in a round of fast-paced diplomacy, meeting with a succession of world leaders inlcuding Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, Is­raeli President Chaim Herzog and Jordan's King Hussein. 
After Bush's round of meetings on Thursday, Secre­tary of State James Baker sug­gested the Soviets should con­tribute to the peace process in a "concrete way" by establish­ing full diplomatic relations 
Hosni Mubarak, president of Egypt, makes a point are in Tokyo to attend the funeral of Emperor Hirohito. with Israel, using its influence during a meeting Thursday with President Bush at Story right. in Syria and denouncing "radi­
GSU 
continued from page 1 
A quorum was taken, but "(attendance was) the lowest we've had all year," Krebs said. "I don't know what the reason for that was." 
Kennedy also said Krebs denied a request to postpone the vote on the budget increase until representatives could speak with their constituents. 
"We needed this...decision to be made prior to the elec­tions which are coming up next meeting," Krebs said. 
None of the department rep­resentatives who voted against the proposal to raise GSU offi­cer stipends could be reached for comment. 
The 1989 budget is waiting final approval from Robert Gordon, assistant vice presi­dent for advanced studies, said Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for student affairs. 
Gordon and Lenz oversee the Graduate Student Union budget's academic and social expenditures. 
Gordon could not reached for comment. 
Lenz said she felt the GSU officers deserved a salary in­crease because they had made many improvements and shown dedication. She said the increase was adequate com­pensation for their work. 
Lenz said she could not say whether the budget would be approved. 
Join The Observer 

SPRING BREAK 'B 

LAST CHANCE! 
L'VE GoT TO CALL TODAY! 
I • 

L IXJN'r wANr 
~ ·~.~~,.I. 70 8£ 5TtKK IN ' ·.~I') NOTRE. "PAM£/ 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ,,oms149" STEAMBOAT ''"'"s213" DAYTONA BEACH troms118' MUSTANG ISLAND troms136" HILTON HEAD ISLAND troms10T DON'T WAIT 'TIL U'S TOO LATE! 
CALL TOLL FREE TODAY 

1·800-321-5911 

cal countries" such as Libya. Gardens.
the American ambassador's residence. Both leaders




P--------------------------------------------, 
This 
Spring Break, 

gn Greyhound® instead. 
·For just $49.50 each way, you and your friends can afford to pile on Greyhound. Whether it's the beach, the slopes or your hometown, going Greyhound won't cramp your style. 
~9~ 
each way based on round-trip purchase. 
~GO GREYHOUND
1!1.Amleave the driving to us: 4671 Terminal Drive •287-6541 
Must present ":al_id c?llege I.D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good only for travel on Greyhound and other parnctpallng earners. Offer hmned. Greyhound also offers low Money Saver fares. Some restrictions apply. Spring Break fare available 2/l/89through 4/30/89 and is subject to change without notice. © 1989 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
Baker said a "new dynamic" for peace existed in the area and that Bush hoped to nurture it. The president's sessions with Mideast leaders provided a counterpoint to Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze's 10-day tour through the region, where he attempted to advance Mos­cow's. role. 
A cold drizzle fell Friday as Bush and other leaders from 163 nations prepared to pay their final respect to Hirohito. An estimated 10,000 official guests were to fill two large tents at the funeral site and hundreds of thousands more to line the streets to witness the funeral procession. 
The 13-hour funeral began in the early morning with a private ceremony at the Im­perial Palace, to be followed later by a solemn ceremony in two giant, open-sided tents at Tokyo's Shinjuku Imperial 



-------~---­

24, 1989 Observer 

Williams speaks at forum, favors selective divestment from S. Africa 



Are you interested in helping to manage and account for $400,000? 
If you are a SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJOR who enjoys working with 
money and people, STUDENT GOVERNMENT needs you as the 
Student Body Assistant Treasurer. 
-Student Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body Treasurer in disbursing funds for: 
Student Government Student Union Board Halls Clubs and Organizations 

This is in preparation for your becoming THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER the following year. 
-Applications are available in the Treasurer's office 2nd floor LaFortune between 12-4:00 pm. Due on Thursday, March 2 by 4:00pm. 
-Any questions, contact Guy Weismantel at 239-7 417. 

fflOUBLE 6EmN6 HIRED? GET THE INTERVIEWIN6 ED6E 
Success in interviewing is not luck -it is a skill YOU can master. Increase your chance of being hired on the FIRST interview. Master proven interviewing techniques that will answer those "hard to answer" questions. Presented by a skilled trainer who has taught the people who may be interviewing you!! Fee: $25.00 MAY BE THE BEST MONEY YOU WILL EVER SPEND!!! Brin 
5 to: 
UBRARY AUD"ORIUM FEBRUARY 25, 1989 1:30-3:30 
ADWORKS 

~ •· :: " ­' ' " ' •"' ,:
~ .., • f ,_ 

,'# .. 1 * . .. " 
1

• * 1 " ,.1 
• • ~ .. 1 "' ~ ,' ' , • • 1 
#"' ,.
\\. * 
·'t -~ • ' 

· -, ' • 1 
Peace be with you 
AP Photo Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and the Chairman of the PLO Vasser Arafat clasp hands as Arafat arrived at the Soviet embassy in Cairo on Thursday. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer advertising. 
Our Vacation is over and we are ready to serve you once again. A New Season in Harbor Country and Beyond the Sea Crabhouse has some surprises for you. Come join us. Reopening March 1st New Hours: Tues-Thurs 3-10 pm Fri-Sun 3-11 pm Closed Monday Check out "Early Apps" between 3-5 pm Tues -Fri 
Beyond the Sea Crabhouse Red Arrow Highway Union Pier, Ml 
616 469-0200 



HEY! MARCH 1st is the last day to register for CLUB MEMBERSHIPS this year 

By COLLEEN CONLEY 
News Staff 
Speaking on the Apartheid crisis, Associate Provost Fa­ther Oliver Williams called for selective divestment in South Mrica and stressed the need for development of internal power among blacks. 
Speaking at the St. Edward's Hall forum, Williams spoke on the ethics of Apartheid and em­phasized that its elimination is "essential and non­negotiable," but that withdrawal of foreign invest­ment is not the best way to change the existing racial hierarchy. He said that the U.S. has significant leverage in the country and that this power should be used in the most ef­fective way to dismantle Apar­theid. 
According to Williams, there are two major arguments 
Father Oliver Williams 
made by those who favor com­plete divestment, and both con­tain disputable facts. The first, the .rational economic argu­ment, advocates crippling the economy by divesting and thus bringing the white leaders to the negotiating table. Williams said this theory is based on the "disputed thesis" that U.S. withdrawal could cripple the economy. 
Williams also said that he does not agree that U.S. divest­ment would cause such countries as Great Britain and Japan to follow suit, stating that there is "very little 

evidence to support that so far , 
. 

Williams faulted the logic of the symbolic threat argument, which suggests that the best means of overturning Apar­theid is by threatening white South Mrica with U.S. rejec­tion and withdrawal. Williams pointed out that "it is much more important to try to use the power we have by staying in South Mrica." 
Mter having traveled to South Mrica earlier this month as a member of a national ad­visory commission, Williams concluded that "most blacks do not favor withdrawal of foreign investments if it means loss of jobs." 

--~­
6 
House bill proposes castration as option for sexual offenders 


of the campus band The Groove, which place dance and funk music. 
Howto getthrou collegewith 
moneyto spare: 

-:------------~11 
1. Buy aMacintosh. 2. Add aperipheral. 

3. Get anice, fat check. 
Now through March 31, when you buy selected Macintosh®SE or Macintosh II computers, you'll get a rebate fOr up to half the suggested retail price of the Apple® peripherals you add on-so you ·n save up to $800. Ask for details today where computers are sold on campus. 
ti® Apple Pays Half 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computer Center/Math Building 
IC 1989 Apple Computer; Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered lrtldemarks qfAppk CompUier, Inc. Certm/1 reslricliolls app!l' All >T!bal&· subjf.'<1 to s1ric1 compliance wilh the 1/!rrns and Co11dilions qfthe 'ilpflk lt{ys Half' Progmm Guidelines, m•ai/able.ftvm_your aulhorized Apple n?Seller. Offer mitl u1Jerr! prohibited~· !au: 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -An In­diana House committee ap­proved a bill Thursday that would permit the jail sentence to be suspended for a convicted rapist, criminal deviate or child molester who underwent surgical castration. 
Mter a 45-minute hearing marked by procedural squabbles, the House County and Township Committee voted 5 to 3 for House Bill1299 sponsored by Rep. Richard Worden (R-New Haven). The measure now goes to the full House. 
Worden, an investigator for the public defender in Allen County and a former constable, said he introduced the bill out of frustration that current cri­minal sanctions against rapists and child molesters don't deter criminals from committing those acts again. 
The crimes now carry prison sentences of six to 50 years, depending on the circum­stances. 
Noting that many of the of­fenders get suspended sen­tences, Worden said of his bill, "This says, if you're going to walk the streets of Indiana, you're going to walk the streets without the ability to rape again." 
The bill calls for a convicted 
rapist, child molester or cri­
minal deviate to be set free if 
after sentencing the person vol­unteers for surgical castration. 

"You take the part from the man that starts the process in the first place," said Worden. 
Acknowledging he has taken criticism for bill, Worden said he believes he has support but his supporters are reluctant to come forward. 
"I feel like Gary Cooper in 'High Noon.' Everybody's be­hind you, but when you turn around, where are they?" said Worden, who has received na­tional publicity for introducing the measure~ 
Opponents noted that Wor­den's bill calls for an extraordi­nary punishment that wouldn't solve the problem its author seeks to address. 
Ruth Peters Civil Liberties Union said rape often is a crime of violence, not one motivated by drives. She argued that under Worden's proposal a convicted rapist who had been castrated could go free to commit other violent acts. 
Rep. John Gregg Sandborn) pointed out many child molestation cases don't involve intercourse. Of­fenders castrated after those crimes might still commit child molestation again, he said. 
"I don't think we ought to be setting our policy in Indiana to follow Islamic countries," said Gregg. 
the Washington Hall Annex. Tallarida is a member 

The Observer I Zoltan Ury

Lights, camera, action 
Junior Zachary Hudgins films "Creating Images of Keenan" for his dorm's entry in the Morrissey Film Festival. The Festival is scheduled to take place tonight in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
,.._~ ,. ~ ~~" ~"• •J•vAVVQ ••"vAvvu .••••:.::;<<=fJJ.tv-' U/Q. ,, ""'U./ (Jv ·~
'\;' t-c,· ''"'~..~,...,..,,...,.,... .• ,..,.., •• ,.....,..,....,,,. n!)... ····· ""' rOup "E 
:~,~~~~! 8 UY CLASS I Fl E os;:'·:~-~~i>[
~.3tfb• ~ ~ J.~-'( ·v ~ .()._.. .L. Qnoou•••o VII 1. "fS~ ...,. U /J(J • r-tvs SJ · (ON) 
~ 
... ,...~ .41 /,.. -·y, . '"'.:.-~----":~-~~ ~-8 ••··· 04J~,-9Jton.,..... 

239-6264 
The Observer 

SECURITY BEAT 
THURS., FEB. 9 
2:00 a.m.-Several St. Joseph Hall residents reponed that their vehicles were broken into while parked in the St. Joseph Hall parking lot sometime between II: 15 
p.m. on 2/8 and 12:15 a.m. on 2/9. Their combined losses are estimated. at $600.00 
11:00 a.m.-A South Bend resident reponed that his coat was stolen from the University Club between 5:30 and 7:30 p.m. on 2/8. His loss is estimated. at $195.00 
10:15 p.m.-A Siegfried Hall resident repotred that several items were stolen from her unlocked room at about 10:00 p.m. Her loss is estimated. at $80.00 
11:20 p.m.-A South Bend resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for traveling 40 m.p.h. in a posted 25 m.p.h. zone on Juniper Rd. 
FRI., FEB. 10 
I :35 p.m.-A Zahm Hall resident reponed that his car was vandalized while parked in the D2 Lot between 9:00 p.m. on 2/9 and I: 15 p.m. on 2/10. Damage estimates are unknown 
4:19 p.m.-A Hanner Hall resident reported that his car was vandalized while parked in the D2 Lot at about 4:00 p.m. Damages are estimated at $150.00 
SAT., FEB. 11 
12:20 a.m.-A Granger resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for traveling 46 m.p.h. in a posted 25 m.p.h. zone on Juniper Rd. 
I :45 p.m.-A Dillon Hall resident reponed that his wallet and contents were stolen from the Rockne basketball gym between 7:00 and 8:00 p.m. on 2/10. His loss is estimated. at $30.00 
5:59 p.m.-Several residents of Zahm Hall reponed that 30 compact discs were stolen from their unlocked room about 2:00 
a.m. Their loss is $450.00 
SUN., FEB. 12 
7:35 p.m.-A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported that his bike was stolen from Crowley Hall between 6:30 and 7:35 p.m. His loss is estimated. at $400.00 
3:30 p.m.-A University employee reponed that a computer was stolen from the Math and Computing Center sometime between I 0:30 p.m. on 2/11 and I :00 p.m. on 2/12. The loss is estimated at $2630.00 
MON., FEB. 13 
5:30 p.m.-Several Dillon Hall residents reponed that their wallets and contents were stolen from their rooms sometime during the morning. Their combined losses are estimated at $32.00 
TUES., FEB. 14 
12:45 p.m.-A St. Edwards Hall resident reponed that his car was vandalized while parked in the D2 Lot sometime between 
II :50 p.m. on 2/12 and 6:30 p.m. on 2/13. Damage estimates are unknown 
THURS., FEB. 16 
2:00 a.m.-Several Notre Dame students reponed that their coats were stolen from the coat room in the Alumni-Senior Club sometime during the evening. Their combined loss is estimated at $300.00 
5:42 p.m.-A Stanford Hall resident reponed that his books were stolen from the 13th floor of the Hesburgh Library at about 
II :00 p.m. on 2/12. His loss is estimated at $139.00 
FRI., FEB. 17 
2:00 a.m.-A Niles, MI. resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for traveling 54 m.p.h. in a posted 25 m.p.h. zone on Juniper Rd. 
4:09 a.m.-An Off-Campus student reponed that his car was vandalized while parked in the Red West Lot (near the Alumni-Senior Club) between 12:15 and 2:00 
a.m. Damages are estimated at $105.00 
SAT., FEB. 18 
1:00 a.m.-A Mishawaka resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for traveling 51 m.p.h. in a posted 30 m.p.h. zone on Edison Rd. 
I :20 a.m.-A South Bend resident was 
· issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for traveling 65 m.p.h. in a posted 30 m.p.h. zone on Edison Rd. 
MON., FEB. 20 
5:45 p.m.-A Lewis Hall resident 1:-eponed that her car was broken into while parked in the D2 Lot between 12:00 p.m. on 2/16 and 8:00 a.in. on 2/17. Her loss is estimated at $95.00 

Hirohito to Adolf Hitler. Hirohito, who died of cancer Jan. 7 at age 87, presided over


Funeral 
the rise of Japanese militarism, 
continued from page 1 
the crushing defeat in World War II and a remarkable 
ning. One group of about 100 
postwar transformation into
marchers in central Tokyo 
one of the world's leading eco­
carried a placard likening 
nomic powers. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant News Editors News Copy Editors 
A one-page personal statement is due to Matt Gallagher by 5p.m., Fri., Feb 24. Any questions, contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957 
IllALUMNI ==~:::::::::::::::::=:=::~:::::::e::~~~=~=:=:::::::. SEN lOR ::;::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::;:::::::~::~:::;r::::::;::~:;:::;::::: 


~CLUB 
A JOB & AN ADVENTURE 
Apply today for Manager at the Club. 
Applications & job descriptions are available in the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor La Fortune 
DUE DATE is Wed MARCH 1st 

page 7 
TUES., FEB. 21 
10:30 p.m.-A Holy Cross Hall resident reponed that his bookbag and contents were stolen from the South Dining Hall between 
II :50 a.m. and I :00 p.m. His loss is estimated at $95.00 
10:25 p.m.-A Carroll Hall resident reponed that his car was broken into while parked in the D6 Lot sometime during the day on 2/21. His loss is unknown 
10:30 a.m.-A Dillon Hall resident reponed that his bookbag and contents were stolen from the South Dining Hall at about 
10:00 am. His loss is estimated at $77.00 
WED., FEB. 22 
9:08 a.m.-A Lyons Hall resident reported that her bike was stolen from the Morrissey Hall bike rack on or about 12/17/88. Her loss is estimated at $200.00 
I :35 p.m.-An Off-Campus student reponed that his bookbag and contents were stolen from the South Dining Hall at about 
12:15 p.m. on 2/21. His loss is estimated at $170.00 
4:35 p.m.-A Siegfried Hall resident reponed that her bookbag and contents were stolen from the 5th floor of the Hesburgh Library at about 3:10 p.m. Her loss is estimated at $64.00 
10:00 p.m.-A Knott Hall resident reponed that her car tires were stolen while parked in the C5 Lot. The larceny occurred at about 10:00 p.m. Her loss is estimated at $500.00 
Crime of the Week 
The Crime of the Week is the theft of 
computer equipment from O'Shaughnessey 
Hall. Security reports that someJime 
between 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on 
02/02/89 an unknown person or persons 
entered the computer lab on the second 
floor O'Shaughnessey Hall and stole five 
Macintosh SE computers valued at $15,000. 
If you have any information about this or 
any crime at Notre Dame, call Crime 
Stoppers at 288-STOP. You don't have to 
give your name and you 'II be eligible for a 
cash reward. 
Those who planned Japan's event of the century made Friday a day of processions through streets closed to traf­fic: the first, of 32 vehicles, taking the emperor's body from the palace to the Shinjuku Imperial Gardens for the fu­neral, and the second to the mausoleum in Hachioji, 30 
miles west of Tokyo. 
Two giant open-sided tents 
were built in the Imperial Gar­
dens to accomodate 10,000 
people for nearly two hours of 
religious and state funeral ser­
vices. A hearse was provided 
for the trip to the mausoleum; 
oxen pulled the cart of 
Hirohito's father. 
On Thursday, workmen 
painted guardrails and cleaned 
the roadside for the million 
people expected to line the 
route to Hachioji. __ 
Japanese officials say partic­
ipation by 163 nations make this 
the largest state funeral or gat­
hering of international leaders 
in modern history. 
Many of the dignitaries used 
Thursday, the day before the 
funeral, for meetings with offi­
cials from Japan and other na­
tions. 


Tower 
continued from page 1 
about his personal habits and we think this debate ought to be on a slightly higher level than that." 
If the full Senate should turn down Tower, it would be the first time in history a newly elected president had suffered a rejection of a nominee to his first Cabinet. In all, eight Cabinet nominations have been rejected, the most recent 30 years ago. 
Before the committee vote, most of the panel's 11 Democrats and nine Republicans explained their positions in lengthy comments. 
-------~---~~ 
The Observer 
Apple Says_ 


"YES" to Spr·ng Break! 

Purchase a Qualifying Apple System by March 31st and receive a rebate of up to 50°/o off the suggested retail price on peripherals... 
Qualifying Purchased Maximum System Peripheral? Rebate 
Macintosh SE yes $150 or 50%** 
Nlli19~H=,Sifl1)2Q<i ' : : : .,y~s :, =' ,,, ' >$r200'9~ so~,!i:::;:::::, :: 
Macintosh SE 2/40 $250 or 50%** 
Macintosh II HD 40* yes . $800 or 50%** 
:f=la<:l.t~aHln=41in~' :, : .ye$ : :· ,,,:::::::::q=:::::: =.$.1Xlht50.ii!:::;r;1;::,:: 
Macintosh Ilx* yes $500 or 50%** 
i:lm~®ll=U~~8o~< · < ,, &~.$-t' :, .=,:::::::i'ii,'::::::::::::::::=:::'::::::::::::;::::::=::::::,::::::J:::::::::$.~f.l:ll:iillll~::::::::::::::::::::::::
• 

* Must be purchased with monitor and video card **Whichever is less 
Qualifying Peripherals
Apple Image Writer Printers AppleShare File Server Apple Laser Writers Apple Scanner Apple External Disk Drives· and Backup Systems 2MB Memory Expansion Kit Apple Modems 4MB Memory Expansion Kit 
Office of University Computing Notre Dame Computer Store Computer I Math Building • Room 25 8:00AM-5:00PM • 239-7477 
Please Note: 1/2 Off Rebate available on Individual or Departmental purchases 
Friday, February 24, 1989 

Doctor's license suspended for impregnating patients 
Did unauthorized abort1ons afterwards 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Emotions erupted in the audience as members of the Indiana Medi­cal Licensing Board voted un­nanimously Thursday to temporarily suspend the medi­cal license of a Fr~ton physician for alleged sexual and ethical misconduct. 
The board suspended Dr. Pravin Thakkar's license on an emergency basis for 90 days after hearing testimony from 12 of Thakkar's former female patients. 
Thakkar, an obstetrician­gynecologist, has been accused in lawsuits by two former patients of impregnating them, then performing abortions without their knowledge. Thak­kar wasn't contacted about the hearing until an hour after it began and he did not attend. 
Attorney General Linley Pearson, whose office brought the case to the licensing board, said the board determined that Thakkar presented a "clear and immediate danger to the public health and safety." 
"Certainly this type of be­havior was not unknown," said board president Dr. John Mil­ler. "I'm concerned that it hasn't been brought to our at­tention before. 

"The potential damage to young women, well, women of all ages, but particularly young women, is just tremendous," he said. 
Several women said Thakkar asked to perform pelvic exams on them despite their medical condition. One woman said Thakkar wanted to perform a pelvic examination on her when she sought help for a strep throat. 
"This is probably the worst abuse of physician-patient trust that I've seen since I've been on the board," said Dr. John Hinton. 
Carmen Brutchen Hertzinger of Anderson and Kathy Collins of Madison, the women suing Thakkar, were the first to testify at the four hour hearing. 
Hertzinger said she became pregnant with Thakkar's child in February 1983. Thakkar is accused of administering d,rugs to Hertzinger, causing her to deliver the fetus at his home eight months later. He told her the baby was stillborn and he had taken care of it, Hertzinger said. 
However, Hertzinger claims that she was conscious during part of the procedure and heard Pat McClanahan, a junior, irons his dress shirt in his room in Keenan before going out for the night. 

a baby's cry. 

;tf(){!!EtTlllttvEEtt:· 
. . .\..5).··········.····.·····
... ··•·•·· 



Times: 8 & 10:15 pm Engineering Auditoroum $2 


hearings before an INS admin­istrative judge. 

Hundreds of INS officials have been sent to the Rio They were held on bail $1,000 Grande Valley to process cases 
to $4,000 while they await the day they are submitted. 


~!Xot~ag~ 
AIR TRAVEL 
IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS 
TICKETS DELIVERED 


CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 255-7272 
._........,~,m~~~.~.·.·.•~ 

~ tours&travel .. 
117 S. MAIN STREET MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 


I 

I Every Sunday 

I Super sub Sunday 
14" sub sm chips Only $4.9.9 
271-0SUB 


-~ ~-----~ 
Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, February 24, 1989 
Legacy of American leaders lives on 
A social visionary concerns himself one (justifiably in my mind) has little even though the violence was coming that he was imprisoned over 200 times with finding pathways to "social re­or no lasting effect on American public generally from one direction. in his public life. creation." Generally, they are activist opinion.) A minister's purpose after ordination A perusal of Dr. King's writings, par­scholars; studying throughout their If Dr. King had not expressed his is spreading the Word of God. King, like ticularly his "letters and notes from the lives and shaping their studies into con­views with genuine finesse, he would Lincoln, once the struggle began, had Birmingham jail," clearly showed his crete activity. have evenutally found himself without this major aspect of his life fall away intense study of American political
They are usually strong but tender colleagues and without consistent tele­from him; ·he became instead an or­thought. Interestingly, there was al­persons; often divided from the thought vision and newspaper coverage. dained American personage. ways the slightest sprinkling of Chris­of the rest of society. This astuteness was equal to Lin­Both King and Lincoln knew how to tian Marxism in his papers. 
In the extreme state, some social coln's; both were superb political address the multitudes about hard Could we explain to our children and visionaries become counter-culture minds with tender sentiments, as realities without being heavy-handed, young people that if Dr. King were alive theoreticians, ranging from Karl Marx evidenced by the precision and passion and, in fact, they united factions . that today he may very well have shifted to Mahatma Gandhi. of their public actions. would not normally have united, under his base of operation to South Mrica? 
As with Lincoln, King believed in the any conditions. Lincoln did so near the And why?John Chesire basic integrity of the American system. end of the Civil War and King nearly To be fair, King's life is a union now If he had not, like Gandhi, he would throughout his 15-year public life. for many of us, but we need to remind
guest column 
have challenged America as a colonial King took on the establishment. He ourselves that King entered our lives power oppressing people who should be has been the only American ever to do through the "back door" of discord and entirely free of the dominant body this with such magnitude and success. death. We did not shake his hand at the In America, three men come to mind: politic. Dr. King, standing in the midst of front door. In our schools, this appears Abraham Lincoln, Eugene V. Debs (the Are we not all indebted to Dr. King many black leadership groups, accom­to be another well-hidden adult thought. union organizer), and Martin Luther in some way? Have we adults cleared plished this with the skill of an experi­Lincoln did not have to enter through 
.. King. None of them is an extremist. our heads enough to learn what our debt enced mediator. the "back door," but he earned his Each was a "reconciler," even though is and then teach it to our children? We are teaching in some of our place on center-stage as King did. Thus, their activities often highlighted a Lincoln was a peaceful man, some­schools that Dr. King stirred with great they died on center-stage because they divided American society. what Quaker-like. Even though he was vigor the pot of America's peacefulness prefered not to move. America exacts a heavy price for a an active "reconciler," he had to take and unity or that he was a one man Dr. King's life and death did touch visionary's rise to prominence and in­in hand the reins of military power. source of moral education on the sub­the American spirit. So America lives fluence: Dr. King had to very clearly King was an active pacifist whose re­ject of equality. on, educated, tattered, but surviving. and carefully articulate who he was and ligious beliefs were also blurred by the Dr. King knew all too well the legal why his cause deserved the attention frenzy and length of the civil rights boundaries that governed civil dis­John Chesire is a 1966 graduate ofNotre of the American public. (Otherwise, struggle, which in reality was a war, obedience. Our children should know Dame. 
New grading scale offers advantages 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to take this opportunity to address several of the concerns voiced by Bob Brutvan in his Feb. 20 Viewpoint column on the Notre Dame grading scale. As a member of the Aca­demic Council, I voted for the approval of the plus-minus grading scale. 
As many Observer readers might know, the plus-minus grading system dominated the attention of the Student Senate last year. The Senate had con­ducted a survey on campus life in which over 70 percent of the students polled preferred a plus-minus system over the old minus system. Amazingly enough, the Registrar agreed with the plus­minus system, as the vast majority of our peer institutions currently have plus-minus grading scales. In fact, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were the only institutions in the country to have a minus-only system. Converting to a plus-minus system would give our graduates equal footing with graduates of other schools in terms of applying for graduate schools, law schools and jobs. I might also note that the majority of our peer institutions do not have A+grades, which Mr. Brutvan counts as a shortcoming. 
A plus-minus grading scale also al­lows the professor to more accurately and fairly evaluate the student's per­formance in the classrom. Although I share Mr. Brutvan's ambivalence towards grades, I believe that the old system allowed for great dis­crepancies. Some students may have performed much better than other stu­dents, but received the same grade. I 
P.O. Box Q 
hope that the plus-minus system al­leviates these shortcomings. I also must argue that the University should not hand down universal guidelines for grading. There is too much diversity in terms of course requirements and styles for that to have any positive ef­fect. 
Mr. Brutvan must also realize that a B-of a year ago is not equal to a B-of today, due to the addition of the C +and B + . The fact that it is more difficult to earn a high GPA here than at a state university cannot be attributed to the grading system, but to the higher quality of the school. I realize that the system is not perfect, but I believe that 
its neg positive atives.  attributes  outweigh  the  
Daniel Gerlach Off-campus Feb. 20, 1989  

Service program fosters unity 
Dear Editor: 

Over spring break I will be speaking on Notre Dame's Urban Plunge at the 
C.O.O.L. Conference at Fordham Uni­versity in New York. C.O.O.L. is the Campus Outreach Opportunity League, a national, non-profit organization which promotes and supports student involvement in community service and action. 
The goals of the March 9-12 confer­ence are to demonstrate the strength of the service movement and to allow students from across the nation to come together and exchange programs and ideas. 
If anyone is interested in attending, please contact me by Feb. 28. Due to the large amount of media attention and the benefit concert on March 11 featuring the group 10,000 Maniacs and other nationally known bands, the or­ganizers are expecting over· 1,000 stu­dents, administrators, and community leaders to attend. 
Patrick Creadon Off-campus Feb. 23, 1989 

Common Sense two years old 
Dear Editor: 
The "other" campus newspaper, Common Sense, has just celebrated its second birthday. The Observer has not, as far as I can tell, taken notice of this. It has been, understandably, busy reporting on other events which have put Notre Dame in the national limelight--e.g. the national football championship, the giving away of the real Gipp's jersey to the fictional Gip­per, etc. 
Your readers may or may not be pleased to know that Common Sense has been attracting considerable na­tional attention as well. In a very recent book, New Voices: Student Political Ac­tivism in the 80s and 90s, the author T. Vellela devotes a couple of pages to Notre Dame. He explains that even at Notre Dame there is a fledgling pro­gressive opposition and Common Sense is its voice. 
Common Sense has not had an easy time during its early years. It is kept going on a shoestring budget by a group of selfless student and faculty volun­teers. Yet it has made its mark on our campus because it constitutes the only genuine alternative to the overwhelm­ingly bland journalism that is available locally. It is provocative, critical, proudly independent and unusually well-written--qualities which we theoretically extol in a university con­text but rarely cultivate. 
This year the University of Notre Dame has invested a huge amount of money and energy in an effort to celebrate and foster "cultural diver­sity." In the meantime, the voice of di­versity which has been with us for two years continues to receive scant notice from the official and semi-official or­gans of the University. It is not hard to understand why: difference makes us very uncomfortable when we have to accept it into our midst. As long as the "different other" can be viewed from a distance it remains safe; indeed, it appears exotic, interesting, even desirable. But once "difference" sets up its dwelling among us, it becomes disturbing, undesirable, and threaten­ing. And some may wish to throw it into the dumpster--as certain students did with Common Sense a while back. 
Common Sense has contributed sig­nificantly to cultural diversity at Notre Dame. It has also shown that "dif­ference" is fraught with difficulty. For this reason it deserves a "happy birthday" and the support which will ensure that it will have countless other birthdays. 
Joseph A. Buttigieg Chair Department of English Feb. 9, 1989 



---. ----~-=Y~'-' --­
-Ih-e-Obse.-~~r-­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Umvers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa111t Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of the adm1mstration of e1ther 1nst1tution. The news IS reported as accurately and ObJectively as poss1ble. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the maJOrity of the Editorial Board Commentanes. leHers and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expreSSIOn of varying op1mons on campus. through leners, IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board  015erations Board  
Editor-m-Ch1ef  Chris Murphy  Business Manager  John Oxnder  
Managmg Ed1tor  Chris Donnelly  Advertising Des1gn Manager  Molly K1IIP.n  
News Editor  Regis Coccia  Advertising Manager  L1nda Goldschmidt  
News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin  Production Manager  Bernadene ShiHs  
Viewpomt Edit...  .... Dave Bruner  Systems Manager  Mark Ridgeway  
Sports Ed1tor  Marty Strasen  Controller.  Todd Hardiman  
Accent Ed1tbr  Beth Healy  GraphiC Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Samt Mary's Ed1tor  Sandy Cerimele  
Photo E<;hlor  Michael Moran  

Founded November 3,1966 

Viewpoint
Friday, February 24, 1989 page 11 
P.O. Box Q 

Late Night Oak 
caters to need 
Dear Editor: 

In response to Suzann Waters' article on the lack of necessity for the Late Night Oak Room: Over the past weekend I took an informal poll and I found that many students are very dis­appointed that the Oak Room doesn't stay open late. I agree that it was not profitable to keep it open all week; however, the Oak Room does well on weekends for there is always an abun­dance of students there. Most students are up later on weekend nights than during the week. Mter parietals and dances are over many students get the "munchies" or just want to "hang out" and that Late Night Oak used to be the place to go. Thus, a sensible solution would be to have it open a few hours later on the weekends when there is a demand. 
Even though there are 24-hour lounges in the dorms there is still a need for food which the vending machines just can't satisfy. Also, it is great to be able to meet all your friends in one place. Unfortunately, many students are ri'ow forced to go off campus for snacks. This is not only an inconveni­ence for some people but also a bad choice for those who have been out partying. A Late Night Oak is in great demand especially during the winter when it is tougher to get off campus. 
I agree that some students abused the Oak Room privilege and I do not condone this behavior, but it is not fair to punish the majority of the student body. Other restaurants cater to similar crowds and they don't just close down. "Where there is a will there is a way." Reopening the Late Night Oak on weekends would help to ensure the livelihood of the students while raising profits for the University. 
Susan Schleiter 
Walsh Hall Feb. 23, 1989 
Irish justice rally voices discontent 
Dear Editor: 

Joseph Patrick Doherty, a native of Belfast, Northern Ireland, has been held in jail in the U.S. for over five years, without ever being charged of a crime in this country. This is, of course, in violation of the U.S. Constitution and a threat to the civil rights of all Americans. 
The British government is trying to 
extradite Mr. Doherty for trial in Brit­
ain. Joe is seeking political asylum in 
the U.S. Despite the fact that five dis­
trict judges have ruled that his actions 
against the British forces who occupy 
Northern Ireland were "of a political 
nature to the highest degree," he still 
remains incarcerated. 

A rally for justice will be held Sunday 
Feb. 26th at the Irish Heritage Center 
in Chicago from 3-6 p.m. to let the new 
Bush administration know that Irish 
Americans will not tolerate this blatant miscarriage of justice at the command of the British government whose court systems have been condemned by legal and human rights organizations throughout the world for failing to pro­vide Irish subjects with fair legal proceedings. 
Maura O'Siochain Off-campus Feb. 21, 1989 
Student resents sexist column 
Dear Editor: 

In Matt Cleary's "Letters From the Orient" I noticed a rather disturbing attitude. Mr. Cleary, in his commen­tary on sexism in Japan, indicated that the complaints of American women are invalid because of the fact that the treatment of Japanese women is much worse. 
I resent the implication in Mr. Cleary's article that because a situation may not be the worst possible im­aginable I have no justification for criticizing or trying to improve it. If situation "A" is wrong, it does not fol­low logically that because situation "B" is more wrong, those in situation "A" should be complacent and satisfied with their lot. Racial discrimination still exists in the United States, but since it is much worse in South Mrica does this mean we in the U.S. should do nothing about discrimination? Surely not. This "shut-up-and-be­happy-it-could-be-worse" attitude is not only ridiculous, it is offensive. 
Mary Brown Farley Hall Feb. 21, 1989 
Article conveys appalling views 
Dear Editor: 

While reading Matt Cleary's article "Sexism abounds in Japanese culture," I was appalled to read the statement " ...but then I'm a sexist." This seems to be an acceptable viewpoint not only on this campus, but throughout the pnited States. However, it would be considered unacceptable to write an ar­tiCle and plainly state that one is a racist. I ask, what is the difference? Both are forms of discrimination, equally bad. Being sexist is no better than being a white supremacist. 
Cleary writes that when he returns to the States he will "have no tolerance for the petty complaints of American girls. They don't know how easy they've got it ! " Is he going to tell the unwed mother strugging to hold onto a minimum-wage job while taking care of her children that she has it easy? Is he going to tell me that I shouldn't demand equal pay for equal work just because I have more opportunity than a Japanese woman? 
Jill Jones Lewis Hall Feb. 20, 1989 
American women deserve equality 
Dear Editor: 
I did not appreciate the "Letter from the Orient" by Matt Cleary. Although he did admit he is a sexist, I do not find that to be an excuse for labeling the complaints about inequality of Notre Dame or American women as "petty," or just "that 'you don't treat me fairly' nagging." Just because Japanese cul­ture does not see or treat women as equal to men in any way does not take away the right of American women to insist on equal treatment. 
The United States has come a long way, granted. But we still have a long way to go. We have removed many of the physical barriers that prevent wo­men from advancing themselves as they wish, as we can see from the atti­tude Mr. Cleary proudly holds. However, the most difficult obstacles have yet to be overcome: the subtle (or not so subtle) attitudes of men, and even some women, which inhibit wo­men are even harder to eliminate than a difference in a paycheck. 
American women do not "have it easy." They may have it easier than Japanese women, but the situation is still not as it should be. And so, I would appreciate it if a self -proclaimed sexist, or anyone else for that matter, refrained from so proudly trying to halt our progress. 
Monica Rodriquez Lyons Hall Feb. 21, 1989 
Thanks and love abound at JPW 
Dear Editor: 
I have never considered myself par­ticularly sentimental, nor very emo­tional. Junior Parents' Weekend, however, was an occasion filled with an abundance of each sensation. Quite simply, the event was one of my more enjoyable and memorable experiences here at Notre Dame, and I feel it nec­essary to take the time to express my gratitude and appreciation to all those individuals responsible for making the event such a tremendous success, es­pecially chairperson Christine Boron. 
It is neither a cliche nor an under­statement to claim that too often we don't take time to appreciate all that we are given in this life. For me, the 1989 JPW was an opportunity to reflect upon just how fortunate I am. At the risk of sounding corny, I was "moved" this past weekend. It was fantastic to simply spend time with my mom and celebrate the joy of being at Notre Dame. It was fantastic to meet the par­ents of friends. It was fantastic not to have any of the pressures and anxieties of either Freshman Orientation or Senior Graduation. Ultimately, it was fantastic to be able to express to my mom in word and action my sincere gratitude and love for all that she has given me. 
Ifone thing stands out about this past weekend, it is the common denominator which most of the Juniors shared: fan~ tastic parents. Without exception, each parent I met was sincerely kind and caring, and it was obvious nearly every parent there was brimming with pride and love for their sons and daughters. It was their weekend probably more than it was the students', and that is the way it should have been. They deserved the opportunity to be told that their lives have indeed been a success, 
because how could it be anything less when they have a child attending the University of Notre Dame? JPW was . the vehicle to express just a small por­tion of our thanks and love, and I for one am confident my mom received that message. 
Upon rereading this article, I realize it is a little sentimental and even a little corny, but in all honesty, I really don't care. I make no apologies for express­ing I,llY feelings. The 1989 JPW was a truly special event, a "Notre Dame Mo­ment" in its grandest form. 
Michael Schadek Grace Hall Feb. 20, 1989 
NO social life requires effort 
Dear Editor: 
Junior Parents' Weekend has come and gone and it was one of the more memorable weekends of my tenure at Notre Dame. Junior Parents' Weekend, like graduation, is a time reserved for a specific group at Notre Dame, that is, next year's graduates and their par­ents. JPW gave me the chance to show my parents my gratitude and apprecia­tion for the opportunity to attend Notre Dame. 
Christine Walsh's weekend was not so memorable. I, too, have been faced with, and will be again, the prospect of an impending, boring Junior Parents' Weekend, but I had the initiative to do something about it. Granted, at this time of year we all are feeling the con­straints of a low cash flow and that can limit the options for escaping JPW, but does that justify sitting around and whining? Ms. Walsh's article is yet an­other rendering of the age-old argu­ment against the social life here at Notre Dame which we are all guilty of at one time or another. The fun is not always, nor should it be, provided for you. Prima donnas who sit around, complain and wait for acceptable social activities to be provided for them have only themselves to blame. 
We all have bad weekends and they can also, at times, be due to circum­stances beyond our control. The prob­lem is that Ms. Walsh's weekend was bad because she chose for it to be that way. If you can't find the initiative to even try to have a good time, you don't deserve to have one. 
Rick Meyer Keenan Hall Feb. 22, 1989 
Doonesbury 

I lA/HAT [)(}f35 IT 5AYBOTTOM
UN8, CAMP&RS... A8011TG80R.613 8/JSH 7HAT H& PICKS A 5l?C:I?&TA!<Y OF 1?8­
F&N581A/ITH A HI5!Dfzy 
ut-,.U.W'HUL. A8UGl3." 

... THAT 1-1& PICKS AN £THIC5 CJI18F WHO FAitS 70 R&POR:r INCOMe, ANI)A 5ECReTARY 
OF H&AtTH ANP HUMAN9ei<­V!Cb"5 WHO TRJ8S 70 l?OUW VIP?"\_ 
Garry Trudeau 
IT5AY5 mN QUAY/.£ YOU tvASN'T A PEa<BJ! 
FLUKE! 
I
I 
Quote of the Day 
'It is never safe to look into the future with eyes of fear.' 
-Edward H. Harriman 


CINDY PETRITES Mullane has flown since he deafening. Two answered NASA's call for a Liftoff.
accent writer 

shuttle mission non-pilot 11 When you come to, he sun sets 16 years ago. After a six-year out the window of times a day wait, he made his first flight All you ean see is when you're aboard the space shuttle Dis­denly it goes from in space. covery in 1984. blue to black . .u••a...:ll•o::• First it's total "Crews live and breathe for you can imagine. black. Then a getting on a mission," he like glass--no noise, horizontal said. "Getting on a mission is silence and the thread of deep, deep purple the most important thing in g-forces in your emerges on the horizon and an astronaut's life." When that's just the 8.5 begins to expand. Bands of you launch, he continued, you took to catapult into red, then orange, then yellow, feel like you've done it a For the next five then green, then blue follow. thousand times before; but al­are cramped with It's like a rainbow ~n the though no one prepares you astronauts into a 
horizon, only a thousand as well as NASA, not even the size of an ............ . times more intense, with NASA can prepare you for single. Not only stark dividing lines separat­this ride. cause of your wcuw1~• ing the colored layers. Then, your spine relaxes, 
it disappears. grow an inch or so.
Five seconds.

"It's the most beautiful, worry about room, most memorable thing, your The liquid rocket you can sleep in a first sunset in orbit;" says Air boosters activate. the ceiling. Force Colonel Richard Clothes are one of
Four seconds.

"Mike" Mullane. "You just things that stay the wish you could stop every­The craft begins After the initial thing right there." to shake. you can trade the 
Mullane is a NASA for a T -shirt and 
Three seconds. 

astronaut and mission spe­Other things .........61• cialist who served on the The noise goes don't walk, don't flight of the space shuttle At­from loud to float. Everything lantis last December. He is too, including the 
deafening.

JANICE ARCHER foster dorm unity. By giving also the father of junior tube, too small to 
Patrick Mullane, who jokes Two. One. Liftoff. to Velcro, whichaccent writer students who might not other­
that while most students' brushing your wise know each other an op­dads go out of town on busi­Five seconds. The liquid minute game of
I 
f you are a "non-junior" portunity to work together, ness, "my dad goes out of rocket boosters activate. Four seek. Going to thestill trying to recover better relations are created in 
this world." seconds. The craft begins to is akin to using afrom the boredom of the dorm and for the univer­The Atlantis mission was shake. Three seconds. The cleaner' and hmuo••".
JPW, and are anxiously sity as a whole. Making such the second of two missions noise goes from loud to impossible. The food
awaiting the upcoming a movie provides students weekend, have no fear. Mor­with a fun, creative way for rissey Manor is providing all expressing themselves, their • students with what promises ideas, and their visions of life to be an entertaining evening on campus. Tighe said, "We 
rev1ew

with the Morrissey Film Fes­hope this festival is an oppor­tival. This contest for dorm­tunity for inspiring dorm produced movies will be held unity and spirit, while provid­at 7:30 tonight in the library ing a creative outlet for stu­auditorium. dents." 
The Festival's committee, Morrissey also incorporates with Tom King and Leo Tighe a service aspect into the eve­as its commissioners, con­ning's activities. Admission to MARK McLAUGHLIN onions, but the jokes weretacted all the dorms two the one hour and forty-five accent writer quiet and subtle. If you feltmonths ago. Each dorm was minute show is free, but as is like ignoring the whole dis­able to produce and submit a described in the program, a 
I 
never thought I'd see a play, it was no problem, butmovie with a required length collection will be taken at the Japanese reataurant in we found it quite · ·of eight to ten minutes. The end of the show. The students South Bend. Then I You do pay quite a bit for movies were to have a theme in Morrissey are currently never thought the Japan­the entertainment. The Tep­of life at Notre Dame, and sponsoring ten Chilean or­ese restaurant in South pan Chicken ($9.75) was thewhile many of them are com­phans at the Hoquar Santa Bend would be any good. Silly least expensive dinner item, edies, one or two do have a Cruz orphanage in Santiago, 
me. and most were more in the 
serious tone. Chile. The collection at the 
While Tighe says the end of the contest is for these $15 range. If you're really movies are all well-done, the orphans, and all proceeds Hanayori of Japan, on hungry, the Crown Dinner Morrissey Hall Staff, acting from the donations will go Grape Road just south of ($18.50) features filet mignon 
as judges, will make their directly to them in Chile. Edison, is certainly a differ­and a lobster boat, along decisions based on the enter­In its first year, the Morris­ent dining experience. For plum wine after dinner. 
tainment value of the videos. sey Film Festival has those of you who have never Lunch prices are much lower A $100 prize will be awarded received a great amount of been to a Teppanyaki restau­averaging about $6. 
to the dorm with the best positive feedback. This en­rant, the food is prepared in movie, and T-shirts will also couraging response leads the front of you on an iron plate. All the dinners come with be given out. committee to believe that this Guests sit around the table shrimp, soup and salad, fried 
This event, while allowing event has the potential to be­and watch as Japanese chefs rice, vegetables, and green for comedic and artistic ex­come an annual Notre Dame slice, dice, toss and throw the tea. The meals don't look pression, also aspires to tradition. food and cutlery, magically there's much to them, but 
creating excellent cuisine. both myself and my guest were stuffed by night's end. The chefs at Hanayori are Much of the food is preparedCalvin and fantastic. Ever try flipping with varying amounts of shrimp five feet directly onto ginger, which is a bit sharp Hobbes by Bill Watterson someone's plate? They make but not hot like Mexican it look easy. Our chef was l 1\\INK OUR 
also quite adept at twirling One "must" at Hanayori is 
SKO'+I FOR1S M~£ 
sharp objects at light speed, the sake ($2), pronounced100 ~R APr>.RT. 
flipping a vat full of butter "SAK-e," a traditional rice four times to catch it behind wine that is served hot. It his back, and slicing up our certainly warms you up and meals faster than a food pro­complements the Japanese cessor. He was also a com­cooking well. edian, throwing out one-liners The decor is a bit along with the squash and and open, although the 
·'""'­-Do 


a c-.c. .C\ 
n. .c-D ..o .0 .0.0.£:\ 
-.0 ~D. 
Um~er~&l Press ~yndtcale 



Friday, February 24, 1989 

-
wor!ld~ 

bad: meat and potatoes, seafood, Chicken a Ia King, 
cherry cobbler, ice cream--all 
freeze-dried or dehydrated. 
Not exactly Swill Stroganoff, 
but not Mom's home cooking, 
either. 
Going to the 
bathroom is 
akin to using 
a vacuum 
cleaner, and 
showers are 
impossible. 
The worst part? "Coming home," says Mullane without hesitation. "On the last day of the mission; we were all praying for bad weather so we can stay up longer." 
Despite the discomfort, the sacrifice, and the close calls he personally has experienced (he once had to abort a mis­sion and the shuttle caught fire) Mullane definitely feels that the space program is worth the risk to human life and $10 billion yearly expense it involves. Mullane, who per­sonally knew each member of the Challenger crew and flew with victim Judy Resnick on the Discovery mission, still agrees that the space pro­gram is worth continuing. 

too "Every morning you wake up, the Soviets are in orbit," says Mullane, citing little­known strengths of the Rus­sian space program. "They have a robot spacecraft orbit­
ing Mars, a rendezvous with Halley's comet, a very robust space program." While Mul­lane agrees that the U.S. is technically superior to the So­viet Union, he notes, "If America stopped the space program now, in a few years we'd be a third world country." 
Currently, NASA has no plans to halt the space pro­gram, and will begin con­struction of a space station in five years scheduled to be operable by 1998. 
In the meantime, NASA is going full speed ahead with its shuttle program, in which Mullane hopes to fly again soon. For now, however, Mul­lane serves in a support capacity for astronauts cur­rently in training, and enjoys the Earth-bound benefits of being an astronaut. One of these benefits, Mullane's per­sonal "claim to fame," was a hug from model Christie Brinkley. 
But, according to Mullane, some rewards must be earned. Says son Patrick, "Dad tells me I shouldn't be getting girls just because he's an astronaut. He never did." 

• 

dinner 
the lobby to the restau­proper was a nice touch. walls are hung with 
,.,._.......-looking Japanese and artifacts, and a 13th century helmet entranceway. This is but the overly-bright doesn't seem to fit. of the cooking setup, are often seated at mon tables, but we didn't this to be a problem. 
at Hanayori was ,.,......a.JJc. Aside from the the rest of the staff sincerely dedicated to Someone offered to our coats for us, our and drinks were brought and and we were even 
•
sitting down to 
\

this place as if it were own home." 
• 
t

if you've got a few bucks 
' 
Sr. Thea Bowman to lead Knott Hall 
•

prayer session 
and want food you think would ever be anywhere near Notre I recommend of Japan. It's open 5-9 Monday Thursday, 5-10 
and Saturday, 5-9 Sun­hours are 11-2, 

Franciscan Sister Thea Bowman will be leading a prayer group
through Friday. You 

tomorrow at the Knott Hall chapel.
pleasantly surprised. 




Special to The Observer 
S 
ister Thea Bow­man, of Canton, 
Mississippi, will 
lead an ecumenical 
gathering in an evening session of prayer and song entitled "Black Spirituality: We've Come 
0 VEAlR o
~CUlTURAl~ 
d i v ~][' a ; ay 
This Far by Faith" tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the Knott Hall chapel. 
The granddaughter of a slave, Bowman is a lecturer, evangelist, poet and singer who has read, spoken and sung before hundreds of gath­erings nationwide, as well as in Nigeria, Kenya and Canada. She holds masters and doctoral degrees in En­glish and linguistics from Catholic University of America and has published, in addition to several articles on black spirituality and ecumenical relations, articles on the writings of St. Thomas Moore. 
Mflicted by cancer for the last four years, Bowman is confined to a wheelchair. She recently appeared on the CBS Television program "60 Minutes," whose host, Mike Wallace, dubbed her "the Mrican-robed priest." Res­ponding to the new title, she replied, "You know women don't preach in the Catholic Church. But whom do you lis­ten to first, your minister or your momma?" 
Appearing with Bowman in the Knott Ha~l chapel will be Notre Dame's ensemble, Voices of Faith, a 32-member black gospel choir which celebrates its seventh an­niversary this year. 
This event is sponsored by Knott Hall, Voices of Faith, the Black Cultural Arts Coun­cil, the Office of Minority M­fairs, the Office of the Presi­dent and the Year of Cultural Diversity. 


-
-
etc. Friday, February 24, 1989
page 14 

The Archbishop and 'Jews for Jesus' 
n Britain recently, the its Founder to preach the traditions and his children. the child a favor if they could with him as though he were
I Jewish leaders asked the Gospel and baptize; and so The rabbis teach that he who persuade him to become a the Torah. And they all joined
Archbishop of Canterbury to the Jews for Jesus were only teaches the Torah to the son Christian, though the conver­in; they all sang and danced 
use his influence to dis­doing their duty. The Jewish of his fellow Jew is considered sion would break the hearts and cried. They cried but 
courage the kind of leaders replied that they can as if he had given birth to the of the members of his family. they sang with fervor. Never 
proselytism among young understand the mission Chris­child. Somewhere here is a before had Jews celebrated 
Jews that some of the fun­tians feel they have, but what lesson that Catholics who A Russian Jew tells a story Simhat Torah with such fer­
damentalist groups are en­chiefly bothered them was the stand as godparents to the of the celebration on the day vor. 
gaging in. The Jews for Jesus, way in which zealots try to children of their friends of his Simhat Torah, when the 
for example, have been brainwash scarcely-grown might take to heart. lectionary cycle of the Torah Do you think that the old 
taking out full-page ads in the Jewish children with George Steiner mentions is completed. On that day, the Jew who danced with the boy 
newspapers promoting con­propaganda full of distortions the famous instances in which last portion of Deuteronomy was very far away from the 
versions from Judaism to and lies. Jews killed their children to is read, and the readings Kingdom of God? Jesus c~me 
Christianity, assuring the po-[t's not for me to say how prevent their being baptized start all over again in out of this Jewish tradition 
during pogroms: "desperate Genesis. Before the reading, which has such a love for the 
infanticide," Steiner calls it, all the scrolls of the Torah children. I would be happy to
Father Robert Griffin 
"in the face of forced conver-are taken from the ark, and hear that the Archbishop in 
sions." This happened during the Jews dance with them England gave a directive, in 
Letters to c Lonely God the massacres of Jews by seven times around the His name, and for His sake, 
Crusaders in the Rhineland at synagogue. to the Jews for Jesus: "Touch 
the time of the First Crusade. So it was that in a barracks not the holiness !" 
tential converts that instead present-day Jews should feel The parents also killed them-in Russia, "the kingdom of 
of being a betrayal of their about present-day Christians, selves, and their aim was to night," on the threshold of the I don't suppose that the 
Jewish heritage, Christianity but I half-remember Alfred save rather than lose the death chambers, several Jews for Jesus pay much at­
is the direction they must go Kazin's reaction to a German children. hundred Jews gathered to tention to the bishops of the 
in to be fulfilled as Jews. policeman encountered in Like the Irish grandmot-celebrate Simhat Torah. But Established Church, or that 
The Jewish leaders had this Germany immediately after hers who will not mention there was no Torah scroll, so those Established Bishops 
complaint: "It confuses us the war. The policeman, I their children or how could they organize the care much what I think. But, 
when the great Christian believe, told Kazin to make grandchildren without adding traditional dance? As they after all these blood-stained 
leaders tell us of their ad-sure that he registered with a phrase like, "God bless were trying to solve the prob-Christian centuries, would it 
miration, respect, and the police upon entering a them," there are Jews, I'm lem, an old man noticed a be -un-Christian for those bis­
tolerance for Judaism as a town. Kazin's reaction was told, who will not answer the young boy, standing there hops to trust God to take care 
world religion; and then they that, after all the recent un-question, "How many dreamy-eyed. of the people of His chosen 
encourage and bless the ef-pleasantness, no Jew in his children do you have?" for "Do you remember what nation, without assistance 
forts of evangelizers who are right mind could be expected fear of bringing evil on them. you learned?" asked the old from the street preacher;;:;? 
dishonest and deceptive in to trust a German wearing a If Jews are fearful of the dqrk man. 
their approach to our young uniform. Maybe when a Jew forces in the world that are "Yes, I do," replied the Hands off the holiness! 
people." in England looks at a bishop, jealous of a child, why young lad. God's people have had their 
A spokesman at Canterbury he wonders if he's seeing a wouldn't they regard with "Really? You really re-baptism--a baptism of fire! 
reported the Archbishop's un-shepherd or a wolf in shep-horror the Jews for Jesus who member 'Sh'ma Yisroel?"' The Jews for Jesus and the 
willingness to become in-herd's clothing. approach Jewish children "I remember much more," rest of us should not ask, 
volved in the controversy, on sporting yarmulkes and dis-said the boy. "What can we tell them?" 
the grounds that Christianity You don't have to be very playing the Star of David? "'Sh'ma Yisroel' is The question should be, 
is admittedly a proselytizing well-informed as a goy to Catching them off-guard, they enough," said the old man, "What, from their great, an-
religion, which must be know that the two great loves begin hyping the Gospel as and he lifted the boy from his cient religion, can they tell 
obedient to the command of a Jrew has is his religious though they would be doing ground and began dancing us?"
,................................................~ 
:sefore you THE MORRI~~EY FILM FE~TIVAL : 
.•t90 out... ---1 .•• 
~

. . 
• Check out ~ ~ • : what films /, This approximately:
iND dorms 1 ~o~r event i • d d' t Will Include: •
• pro uce . · • 
•• Laughs •• 
: Thrills : :"I laughed, I cried. Prizes : : It was better Free Admission: • than Cats.***'"'" ••• Roger Siskel •• 
: TONIGHT 7:30 : t LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
....4;············································.. : 

Friday, February 24, 1989 The Observer page 15 
The' Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 

$5 DOZENS $5 DOZENS $5 DOZENS 4 months were magical, Filled wijh ex­VOTE CHRIS FRIGON FOR SENATOR Welcome to SMC John! (Cont.) Those FIRST DISTRICT RESIDENTS BUY A DOZEN OF SELECTED ROSES 
\ FOR $5 AT IRISH GARDENS! NOTICES '--W_A_N_TE_D_____..\1.___PE_RSO_N_AL_S-J periences which were invaluable, And 
Memories which will never fade. But now we're back in reality, Unaware VOTE FRIGON IN FIRST DISTRICT 
FORGOT YOUR VALENTINE?BUY 

COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire CW--"You're so good to me" 
HIM+iER A DOZEN OF SELECTED Mts.. West. Mass. Good Sal.,room &
TYPING AVAILABLE of what the future will bring, But one thing CHRIS FRIGON FOR SENATOR ROSES FOR ONLY $5 AT IRISH GAR­
287-4082 is for sure, I LOVE YOU more than anyth­
bd,travel allowance, beautiful modern LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review 
DENS facilijy,must love children & be able to eerty. Keplan-SMH revle-fo many 
ing. I Love your personality I Love your 
body and mind I Love your zest for life
teach one of the following: Tennis, -available here In South Bend. 
TyplngWordproceulng I Love your thoughtful ways But most of FIL OH MY GOD, HI MIKEl 
W.S.I.,Sailing Trenafer beck home for aummer. Dill­237-1949 all, I LOVE YOU for YOU!! I Love you : Happy B-Day to my favooe wastoidl 
Waterski,Basebaii,Basketbali,Socoer count• for Kaplan LSAT alumni. 
Mike says: Nuke the poor. No-NUKE"JUST THE WAY YOU ARE!" Love al­HAPPY BIRTHDAY

L.aCrosse,Wood,A&C,Rocketry, Pholog­ReNMI before Merch 2 Call272-4135. 
MIKE raphy,Archery,Pioneering, Aek for Sue. 
waya, Doreen 
TYPING term paper&teportat I* FIL
Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp ··················sUiiiiiiicn··JVu~··················· GROWN MAN REVERTS TO HELP­
ter&Tesumea. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO DC I LOVE YOU
Winadu,S Glen L.a.,Mamaroneck, NY 
ALL LANDWATER SPDRTS LESS CHILD Steve "Candyfand"
Pick up & delivery evelleble. 277-513'\/ AREA FOR BREAK $-GAS CAUL NBC 10AM-8PM. ' BRIDGET 284-5112
10543. (914)381-5983 PRESTIGE CHILORENS' CAMPS Donovan of Keenan 4-south mysteriously 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS turned 12 year old in a bizarre toy gun NO Lew achOcii 8tildenta to b8 repa NEAR LAKE PLACID accident I We almost noticed. Also, Casey 
································································ 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL CHEAP THRILLS! MRS. COKER, 233-7009. CHEAP THRILLS!
for Keplen-SMH Bar Revl-couraee. CALL 1-800-343-8373 "Chix dig me• Moore just turned 21 I CaB Eem free bar navlew course plua $$'•· To?????: CAMPUS-WIDE SYR Case (if you dare) and wish him a Happy NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks lor Cell 272-4135. Aak for Sue. I'm sorry this is so late! I LIVE BAND I FOODI PRIZES! B-dayl 
ADOPTION truly appreciated your Valentine! 
CASHII Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash TIX AVAIL. AT DOOR FOR ONLY $3 
Loving,secure married couple unable to So, who are you? Don't be shy! Ned a ride to Hartford, CT area. Leave
or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK ea. 
COUNSELORS-Gi~s camp in Maine. conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le­Sincerely, March 4. Return March 11/f 2 Willing to808 Howard St. just off of N.D. 
Good sal,room & bd.,travel allowance, gal,medical exp. Pis call collect Chris & Kathleen share expenses. Ask for Tom. x3366Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 
beautiful modem facility,must love Susan, 703-276-9751 Completely con­children and be able to teach one of the fidential. ski mask on the 1st floor of the 'brare: SHEA--Happy 20th Birthday! Hope you'll following:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing After months and months of Do you remember me? enjoy your Rorida present! Love, your Waterski,Soltbaii,Baskelball, Soc­ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure preparation, we would like to 
233-2342 To the red-haired guy wearing a purple 
The mystery caller w' a sexy voice Rochester connection. cer,L.aCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry introduce an event that needs
Wordproceulng-Typing 272-3827 back,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropas Camp wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­no introduction. We give you To the sexy caller, I could never forget "Seyfin" Happy Birthday to my OLDER Cralt,Gymnastics.Call or write:Camp born child. Legal and confidential. Please The Cempua-Wide SYR that voice that made my skin crawl with sister! Have a great 20th! Love, Katelyn Vega, Box 1771 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 call Linda and Craig COLILECT: 212-877-Frtdey, Feb. 24, 9:00pm exc~e men\! Who are you? Don't keep(617)934-6536 3574
SAVE TIMEI"How To Report On a Book me in suspense! You Haven't Actually Read." Send Your mad-masked man
To the cute dessert giM in A-line $$$ I NEED 5 LOUISVILLE TICKETS Come rock with Alter Hours, "The band The way you scoopad pudding 
$10: Box 15071 Columbus, OH 43215 Hi Betsyl
$$$283-2814 DAY /271-8639 NIGHT your mother warned you about• Tomor­MADE ME SWEAT 
This weekend will be row night at The Underground I'll aweat even more If you'll go Red-Haired Guy, pretty SWOOI, huh? HELP! Ride needed to and from Boston
MARCHANT RESUMES Cover letters, to the I'm desperatl> to meet you I life updating free consultations appoint­
area for spring break. Call Katie X1335. I need a ride to Boston for Spring Break. Cempua-Wide SYR Let's rendez-vous Fri at the Campus ment only (219) 287-7343 Wide SYR. Meet me at NOH 9pm sharp! 
Will help pay gas! Call Susan X4434 with me on Frtdey RIDE NEEDED EAST ON 1-80 TOWARD 
It wllf only coat you S3 Word Processing 277-5014 1 need ride to MinneapoliS'S!. Paul for Allo Omar!
NYC, PREFERABLY TO AREA OF US SPRINT /Network 2000·needs Inde­
• 

WILKES-BARRE PA OR ELSE ANYONE 
pendent Marketing Reps. Find out about break. I can leave alter noon on Fri. Look a' ijl Just HEADING TOWARDS PHILADELPHIA our remarkable Residual Income Oppor­NOTRE DAME CHORALE and OR­looook a' ij, ij's 
March 3. Brad 3170 

OR SYRACUS&BINGHAMTON NY tunity! 234-5723 CHESTRA pertectl Accept rt AREA PLEASE CALL NEIL AT X4051 present Durufle's Requiem 
o' nwill destroy you! ST. JUDE: PRAY FOR US. Sunday, Feb. 26 Matt Brealln and Dave Kfnkopt You two 
are on your way to the top of SUB. Every­
LOST/FOUND 

HELP I need a ride to and from Atlanta Sacred Heart Church one will follow the lead of the Observer! 
or Birmingham tor break will share gas STONE PUPPIES Acuostic Duo 8:00PM 
We love you boys! ST. LOUIS BOUND

Chris# 1425 Saturday Night Free Admission FOR SPRING BREAK SENOR KELLY'S Theresa, Heidi, and Monica!!!! You gi~s I'm loOking for a ride!
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENTLOST: SOMEONE TOOK MY RED CW are beautiful!! I love youii(Cheezy huh?) Will share expenses.
FISHERIES. Earn $600¢-Week in can­
SKI JACKET FROM THE CCE SATUR­HELP HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO BOS­I NEED A RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA OR Call Laura x3948nery. $8,000-12,000¢ for two months on
DAY NIGHT. PLEASE RETURN IT TON FOR SPRING BREAK!! PLEASE NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK-WILIL t. Saturday night turned out to be tricky, fishing vessel. Over 8,000 opanings. No
SINCE ITS MY ONLY JACKET AND I CALL SANDY 284-5493. SHARE EXPENSES-FLEXIBLE DATES. 
ask Mike about his HICKEY. 2. "It would 

CAN'T AFFORD A NEW ONE I'LL AS­experience necessary. MALE OR CALL ROSI AT X3567. Counselors tor MR camp, 20 miles NW
take five of my pres-idents to satisify

SUME IT WAS AN HONEST MISTAKE. FEMALE For 52-page employment book­HELP ME PLEASE I !I I need a ride to the O~ando June 3-Aug. 12, Camp Thunder­
Barbie." Shawn 3. "What a coinky-dink,

I'LL EVEN GIVE A REWARD FOR THE let, send '$6.95 to M&L Research, Box BuffaiC>flochester NY area for Spring SOPHOMORESISOPHOMORESI bird 909 East Welch Road, Apopka, FL 
rts Nat-ional Condom Week and Rich's84008, Seattle, WA 98124. 30 day, un­

JACKET OR INFORMATION WHERE IT Break. I can leave anytime and will help Come see members of your class look 32712 ( 407)889-8088 
21st birthday. 4. "Roses are red, violets lSI PLEASE CALL SEAN-4784. condijional, 100% money back guarantee with driving and$$$ call BRETT at x2034. stupid as they answer personal questions are blue sugar is sweet and so is Shawn's about their sex life in an attempt to get spoo." Anne the slut 5. "I get lost in Annes ONCE AGAIN!

LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­matched up on the 
thighs." The pretty pios P.E. papist

need ride to D.C. area for break will pay. Call x1919 
MILITARY FORMALI! call BRET x1389 FEEL THE BLUES DATING GAME has cycled another year away.
BILLY 'STIX' NICKS & THE Frt Feb 24 Ill 6:30 Ill Senior Ber 
Rich, Happy 21st 8-D! The Motel 6 and Happy Birthday, Ruth!! 

I LOST MY FINANCE 231 BOOK-I left N'a end OUTS PI'OCeeda to Iranian eeaasaln fund I wish you the best, just as you've given one fifth of a century
WANTED TO BUY: FINITE MATH TEXT to us! Love, Amy Love. Slime
in HURLEY om Wed. 2115 Pandora's will FRI & SAT 10:00 Jtlf PI'OCeeda to runaway ahetter. 
If you have a Math 1 04 book to sell, call
not buy ij so please return it. ................................................................ 
Dan at 3436. Soon. To the "not ladies": Why settle for Bx10's? 
BILL 1436 KING DAN: YOU HAVE OUR HIGHEST 
APPROVAL TO SUCCEED TO THE Need ride to Harrisburg, PA or close by We've got movies. We've got the real 
RANK OF CAMPUS MONARCH!lll To the MAN WITH THE QUIVERING
Portable state-of-the-art sound system thing! Come over anytime. We'd gladly
on 31.3 or 314, # 3348 Rob may be reserved from the Student Activ­impress youl L.amda Tau Pi brothers will 
A little boy Ia devaateted. We loat our BEST REGARDS, THE UNITED RIGHT EYEBROW: get ready for the 
email white dog with Ohio lege. With­STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTA­SYR of your life. Make sure you're not
tties Office. The system has 24 channel seek revenge: We seek little sisters!
The recent influx of parents for JPW decreased our numbers by 33%. We 
out a apeclel diet, ahe'll become very TIVES AND CONGRESS. TOO tired. 
Soundcralt mixing console, community Ill. SIZeable reward. Please call 234-speakers, and full range of microphones. TOGETHER NOT APARTheid t-ahlrta
need 3 roommates (preferably very cool) ATTENTION ALL THOSE WHO ARE
1814. Only charge is for operating technicians Will be on aale In the dining hella
to live with us in the old Sigma Pi house 
POLITICALLY CONCERNED .......... THE on Marion for the 89-90 school year. C'mon, tell Ag Hello in person! OKI
Must be officially recognized organization Mon., Tuea. LUNCH & Wed. DINNER 
EARLY POLLS ARE IN, AND KING DAN 
LOST 2 KEYS on a pink keychain at to reserve system and ij must be reserved 
call Dav&f'itz 1608 IS LEADING BY NEARLY 3 TO 1II LONG
Morrissey SYR. If found please call 1 0 days in advance of event. 
LIVE THE KING!!!
X2853. 

Tim and Russ need a ride RIDE needed to WASHINGTON D.C. on ••• LOST ••• 
to anywhere in Florida. Spring Break. Please call Peggy atAlter the Bengals, go 15 rounds w'ZETO 

a Dark Olive Leather Will share expenses. 277-1180 x1264.
AND THE HEAT-ONS at McCormicl<s Fri 
LOST: Gold Chain of much sentimental jacket Senior Bar last Thurs. nile ... If value somewhere between Siegfried and FOR SALE found, please bring soooooo Don't
nile, Feb 24th at 1OPM. 
He's CUTEIIIIIIII! you !)'Shag. $Reward$ x-4802 to Stepan Center Lost & Found. (No ALAN FAYE AND THE MCNEILL'S think so?
ZETOI!! 79 MIDGET EXC. COND. LOW MILAGE 
Questions Asked). PLAYING SAT. NIGHT AT CLUB 23 LOST NAVY BLUE BACKPACK IN 
ZETOIII 

294-5699 Thanks. 10:30 Don't forget to check in wijh your sex SOUTH DINING HALL, TUE LUNCH therapist.
and the HEAT-ONSI! 
CALL JOHN AT 277-3615 ALAN FAYE AND THE MCNEILL'S
small ste(eo for sale call Jay x4662 RIDE needed to York PA SAT. NIGHT 10:30 PM . CAMPUS PAINTERS INC. NOW HIRING 
FRIDAY at CLUB 23
FOUND SET OF 5 KEYS WITH LARGE or general area (SE or SCentral PA, Batt., CLUB 23 NOVICE AND EXPERIENCED
SPRING BREAK IN COLORADO!!!! 
FRIDAY at CLUB 23 Roundtrip from Chicago to Denver.
GREEN KEY. PLEASE BE PREPARED 

etc) Will share exp. PAINTERS FOR SUMMER HOUSE
SEAN & THE SUN KINGS
TO PROVE OWNERSHIP. REWARD Kelly x4416 PAINTING IN CHICAGO NORTH SUB­
Leave 314. Return 3l't 2. Call 2533. Price 
SATURDAY at SENOR KELLY'S
ACCEPTED--CALL 5876 DEAR IDON'TWANNAGROWUP YOU URBS. CAU TO ARRANGE AN INTER­
negotiable. 

SATURDAY at SENOR KELLY'S 
ARE NEVER GIVEN A WISH WITHOUT VIEW 312-251-o151. MAILING 

SEAN & THE SUN KINGS ROUND TRIP VOUCHER ANYWHERE 
HEY STUDS! ALSO BEING GIVEN THE POWER TO ADDRESSIS:2901 CENTRAL STREET­LOST!!\ one pair of black earmuffs on comming soon MAKE IT TRUE. YOU MAY HAVE TO -EVANSTON, IL 60201 
IN THE COUNTRY. BEST OFFER. CALL 2-21 somewhere in the vicinijy of LaFor­the WORK FOR IT HOWEVER. GOOD
JEAN: 284-5421 ST. JUDE: PRAY FOR DAN

tune comp. lab. Please call Dawn at 1292 SPANDEX GODDESS LUCK TONIGHT-WORK HARDII LOVE, it found Stretch; does Fr. Vi know??????? YOUR MOST DEVOTED ILLUSION To the sexy, low-class ttalian who sent
Gemeinhardt Flute M2; Emerson Linear 
SUCCESS IN INTERVIEWING IS me a dozen roses last week : I love you!II 
Tracking Auto Turntable CDT1 00; Joe FOUND: Gold-rtmmed gl..... In herd denali• It seturday, yet?
NOT LUCK I want your toes!!! Thank you for being
2062 

IT IS A SKILL YOU CAN MASTER my pooh-bear!
black pt..tlc case. Found In rm. 204· HEH PHIL KRAKER! Thanks for being 

GET THE INTERVIEWING EDGE Love always, your hon
Nleuwland Science Hell on H. C•ll Microwave & Cabinet-Litton II Gelle(a­my Clarence In dlegulse; everybody ABOUT SAT. NIGHT: Was rt a phone
SAT. FROM 1:30-3:30 OOOOOOOGGGGAAAAAA
x3781 end see egelnl disconnection or a message on a ma­
tion, 2 memories, probe, rack cookbook. needa a guardia angel every once In 
LIBRARY AUDITORIUM; FEE-$25.00. BOOOOOGGGGAAAAII
........................................................~ ....... chine?
Like new-$200. Large cabinet-Excellent awhile. condition. $100. Phone 234-4263 alter 
Kim-How 'bout that sense of direction ... Experienced guitariSWocalist seeks to 12 noon -Molly 
Try this: North, South East, Wesll It will Welcome to Johnl I've been join classic rock band. Call Glenn at take you where you want to go!. K&.M X3083. 
SMC 
waijing for this day for weeks, And it has 

HEY, who is Ag in the personals? Why 
finally arrived, When you fly in on thenot say HELLO today!

L--FO_R_RE_NT__.j -TJCKEJS--~ 
Hey,hey,heylll Could this be some per­SUMMER JOBS American Ai~ines side. I'll be there, wijh son's special day? A birthday perhaps? 

1 

H you have nothing to do alter the my coupon in hand, In hopes that you'll Why ... ij's Ruth "Let me shout ij to the
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK· Bengel Boule thla weekend then greb ALL LANDWATER SPDRTS redeem it right there and then. 
world" Piatz's 20th birthday today. Ruth­

FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL 4 Louisville GA's for sale.272-6306 a date and go to the Cempue Wide PRESTIGE CHILDREN$' CAMPS I've planned a great weekend for us, -how does ij feel to be so "old"? Can all
FOR ALL NO ACTIVITIES. RESERVE SYR or juat go with a group of frtenda. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR We're sure to have a blast, Just like all of us get such "mysterious packages" in 
NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. I need 1 or 2 LOUISVILLE GA's Call Tlx ere available at the door. LAKE the times we've had in the pastil! 
the mail for our birthdays? We hope not.

616-471-5711. Todd x3677 PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373 It's Iunny when you think about it, We've Hope you enjoy your b-elay to the fullest 
10:30-Midnlte traveled haH way 'round the worid to because it won't come again tor another 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-Thla SATURDAY NITE meet, Boy was that a fabulous 'down 364 days! Happy Birthday,Ruth! Love,291-7153. LOUISVILLE TICKETS SKATE for FREE at the ACC under' treatl
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. your roomie. I have 5 GA's! Call Steve at 2354. Winteriest Summer, Yr.round.AII Countrtee,AII Everything happens for a reason (that's HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D. fields. Free Info. Wrtte IJC, PO Bx 52-what you tell me), And I look back when 
RIDE NEEDED! To ROCHESTER, Buf­

683-3889-277-3097. LOUISVILLE student ticket--l've got ij, I IN04, Corona Del Mer, CA 82825. we were in Oz, And I remember how falo, Syracuse March 2, or to Pittsburgh
know you want it. Ron x4642. AITENTION UCAM MEMBERS! Yea, much we enjoyed each othe(s company. 
March 2 or 3. Pay$$. Call Mary 284-5128 

FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BEDRM we ere finally going to have a meeting 
hi ag. 
or 5117.

HOME NEAR CAMPUS.272-Q06 " SELLING ROUNDTRIP TICKETS TO end a ahort movl-SO GET EX­Matt Breslin(a.k.a. Tom Cruise) and his •• •• BOSTON FOR FRIDAY 3369 •• •• CITED! The meeting wUI be Ill Bpm In trusty side-kick, Dave Kinkopf! Good luck 
GRAD. STUDENT LOOKING FOR TO SUNDAY 3369 •• •• CALL BRIAN the Lewla Hall party room on Mondey, to you on Monday ROOMMATE TO SHARE 2 BDRM APT. AT X1360 •• •• THEY'RE CHEAP !IIIII Feb. 27. All memberS please come end PLEASE, I desperately need a ride to MAIT BRESUN AND DAVE NICE AREA CLOSE TO NO. START brtng gueata, frtenda, atrengere, Central PA for B(eak. Will share toll and SPRING BREAK BUS TO MN CALL KINKOPFII BEST OF LUCK TO YOU MAY 1. CALL MARIA 239-5859. NE'iio.i:ou.isiiii:i:E··:rix·c:i--·\382......... gas$$$. call Guy at x3883. GUYS!t You'll do a great job!! 
anyone, just comeflll!flllllllllll DIANE X2985 OR KAROL 612-452-4679 


Question: How do you reach over 12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 


page 16 

Calcavecchia at -7 in first round of Doral 
Associated Press 
MIAMI --Mark Calcavec­chia, the dominant figure in golf this season, shot a 7-under­par 65 and established a two­shot lead Thursday in the first round of the $1.3 million Doral Open Golf Tournament. 
"I didn't make a bogey so that makes it a good day. A lot of good shots, a lot of good putts, a lot of good everything," said Calcavecchia, who has won two of six starts this year and missed a playoff for an­other title by a single stroke. 
"I thought I played great, but I come in and look at the board and the whole world is under par," he said. 
"I didn't think it played that easy, but I guess this is prob­ably the easiest wind you can have." 
Some of the game's leading lights found the chilly, gusty winds less than easy, however. 
Jack Nicklaus, playing in the same group with Calcavecchia, struggled to a 78. 
"He just didn't have the feel on the greens td(lfay," Cal­cavecchia said. 
But he wasn't alone. None of the current holders of the lUg Four titles could break par-72 on the famed Blue Monster course at the Doral Country Club. 
PGA champion Jeff Sluman shot a 75. U.S. open title-holder 

Curtis Strange had a 73. Masters champion Sandy Lyle of Scotland took a 74, and British Open champ Seve Bal­lesteros of Spain had a 73 in his first American start of the year. 
A trio of Texas buddies --Ben Crenshaw, Bruce Lietzke and Tom Kite --were Calcavec­chia's closest pursuers. Playing in a threesome, Cren­shaw had a 67, Lietzke a 68 and Kite a 69. 
Crenshaw, the defending champion in this chase for a $234,000 first prize, was l-over for the day when the group, which started from the lOth tee, made the turn to the front side. 
But he holed a 60-yard sand wedge shot for an eagle-3 on the first hole. 
He needed only nine putts over the last nine holes, dropped one from 35 feet, and played that side in 30. 
Wayne Levi was tied with Lietzke at 68. 
All played in the morning before the winds increased and swept away the hopes of any would-be challengers among the late starters. 
''The winds were really gusty, hard to figure. It was about as windy as it's been in any tournament this year," said John Huston, whose ·69 ranked among the best of the afternoon scores. 
appy Birthday Pochito 
The Greatest Brother in the World 
I LOVB YOU! 


Pre-Law Society 
ng Applications for: 
President Vice-President Treasurer Secretary I News Letter Editor 
Applications can be picked up at 101 O'Shaughnessy and returned by Februa 24 
The Observer 
I Scott McC.nn 


Loftus Sports Center will be the site of the Alex Several Irish athletes will be attempting to qualify 
Wilson Invitational, to be held this Saturday. for the NCAA meet. 
GOTO MEDICA~ HJIOOL 
tUl1\0ti\ 
PAlD j
--~rf&lllb 6 

Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and fees paid in full-plus earn more than $600 a month while you attend school. Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the Army, Navy or Air Force. 
If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as a commissioned officer in the Reserves. 
After graduation, you'll serve three years or more-depending on the Service you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive-as a respected Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical technology. 
If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice­and want to cut the expense of medical school-send for more information today.
.,

1 YES1Send me full details on how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program 
• can help cut my medical school expenses. I meet the age requirements noted below I understand I am under no obligation. Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces ScholarshipS, P.O. Box 2865 Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102 9014
I I
Check up to three: 0 Army ONaV'j 0 Air Fon:e (111-35 years ol age) (21·38 years ol age) (111-34 years ol age) Please pnnt all informatiOn clearly and completely. 
Name--,-F,-:-st--------;-;:M,-,-..ddl-:oe,=""'"'"''-------,,-::,,.;----D Male D Female
I I
Address; ______________Apt.# _____ 
Cityr_________State, _____Zipl I I I I I 
Phone DTI DTI Ll-'---'--'-......JI Soc. Sec. No. DTI [I] I I I I I
I I
Area Code Number 
College, ____________Birth Date CD [I] [I] 
Mo ~Year 

Field of Study ___________ Graduation Date Ll.__j [I] 
Mo Year The information you voluntarily provide will be used for recru1ting purposes only. The more complete 1t IS, the bener we can respond lo your request. IAuthonty. 10 USC 503). 
... I _------.. I 

Friday, February 24, 1989 The Observer page 17 
Wrestlers close home season against Marquette 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team will host Marquette in its last match of the season Satur­day at 4 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. 
Currently, the Irish are 9-3 in dual meets, which is the best record since Head Coach Fran McCann took over in 1984. 
The last time Notre Dame met Marquette in a dual meet, the Irish crushed the Warriors 41-7 the 1988 season finale. Since then, Notre Dame has wrestled against Marquette in the National Catholic Tourna­ment, where the Warriors placed second to the Irish. 
"They will be much tougher this time," stated McCann. "The improvement since last year has been tremendous and it should be an exciting match." 
There are two key individual matches that highlight the meet. At 126 pounds, Marcus Gowens will try to avenge an earlier loss to Mike Posdo in the National Catholics while Mark Gerardi will look to do the same against Brian Cham­bers at 158 pounds. Both Irish losses came in the champion­ship match at the Catholic Na­tionals. 

"Those two bouts will be very important in the seeding for the upcoming · regional tourna­ment," said McCann. The overall series between the two schools, which dates back to 1956, is 17-12-2 in favor of the Irish. Notre Dame is 3-0 against the Warriors in the Fran McCann era. 
Notre Dame will participate in the NCAA Western Regionals March 3-4 in Des Moines, Iowa. This is a quali­fying meet for the National Tournament held in Oklahoma City, OK. on March 16-18. Last year, the Irish sent six wrestlers to the National Tournament which was held at Iowa State. Five of those six wrestlers will be looking to at­tend the tournament again this year. 
Michael Sragow, The San Francisco Examiner Jay Carr, Boston Globe 
"****" 
"CAPTIVATING:' 
Janet Maslin, The New York Times 
"RAPTUROUSLY GOOO:' 
Sheila Benson, Los Angeles Times 
"ENTRANCING. 
Pauline Kael, The New Yorker 
"FUNNY, WISE, DEEPLY AFFECTING. 
Rex Reed 
"TWO THUMBS UP. 
Siskel & Ebert & The Movies 


W1St1 YOU WERE HERE I 
" NOTRE 7:30, 9:30 .,DAME 
COMMUNICATIO'I 
AND THEATRE 

Some people march to the beat of a different drummer. lynda"s got her own brass band. 
Cinematheque 

The Obselver I Paul Compton The Notre Dame wrestling team will compete for terlng the friendly confines of the JACC Pit to the last time at home Saturday, once again en-battle the Marquette Warriors. 
Fisher advances to lnterhall final 
Special to The Observer 
Fisher advanced to the men's Interhall basketball champion­ship with a 57-48 victory over Morrissey in the winners' bracket Thursday night at the Joyce ACC. 
LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL 3300 L.W.W. (US 20) Under New Management 
The Green Wave, which sports a 9-1 record, used an ag­gressive man-to-man defense to hand the Manor its first loss of the season. 
Morrissey now faces Alumni in the losers' bracket semifinal for the right to meet Fisher in Tuesday night's final in the JACC Pit. 
Fisher's guard duo of Todd Wagenblast and Paul Fulling sparked the Wave in the scoring column, while the defense of Colin Lahiff and Keith Szymanski held Morris­sey's big guns at bay. 
The Manor also was hurt by a first-quarter knee injury to guard Steve Corr, who sat out the rest of the game. 
Morrissey was led in scoring by Derrick Johnson and Kevin Keyes. 
The winner of the Morrissey­Alumni game must defeat Fis­her twice to claim the champi-

HTTICK OF THE KILLER TOMIITOEI 
1z:~o 

NOTIONAL LHMPDON'S 
2:05 HNIMHL HOUSE 


4:00 MDNTV PYTHON'§ LIFE UF HHIHN 

SliD All NIGHT~ HAND STAMPED CIJSHilJG AJIQIIQR!lJPJI 
at notre Dame Februarg 21-25 

---------~---·· ---· 
ND, SMC fencers wrap up regular season 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing teams will wrap up the regular season this weekend as they travel to Detroit and then East Lansing, Michigan. At the first stop the Irish will take on Mid­west rivals Wayne State. 
On Saturday the teams will travel to the home of the Mic­higan State Spartans, facing the host team as well as Illinois and Purdue. 
"I think that the big chal­lenge will be against Wayne State," said Irish head coach Michael DeCicco. "If the men can duplicate what we did at our home meet this year, we 
Bengals 
continued from page 24 the record which Noone will at­tempt to match. 
Reardon Sr. won his four titles from 1960-63, while his son lost a split decision in last year's final. Tim Jr. will meet Dave "Sugar" Cane in tonight's final. 
The two Cruiserweight finals 

--cruiser and super-cruiser--will Shane Hitzeman in the third 
n;tatch showcase a pair of giant killers. In the Cruiserweight class, first-year fighter Pat Fay will

i• 
meet freshman Mike O'Neil. 

I 
.Fay ~pset ~efe_nding cham­pm Chns Balmt m one of the most interesting fights on the semi-final card. Fay used his 
reach advantage against the 
stocky, relentless Balint, a strategy ~hich ?e'l_l have to repeat agamst 0 Ne~l. . 
The . Super-Crmserwetght cl~ss, will_ match '!'om "the Rmg . Kmg angamst Sam 
Elston m a very even contest. 
Elst~n !Jpset . defending champ10~ Bill Angnck on Wed­nesday n~ght. . 
~he , frrst two ftghts of torught s card feature two of th~ . best ni~kname_s in the ortgmal104-fighter field. 
Tom "Ball" Berens will bat-

Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Obs~3rver offices, 314 LaFortune. 
should fare pretty well." 
In the only home meet of the year earlier this month, the Irish handily defeated Wayne State, and will look to repeat that performance. 
Saint Mary's head coach Mike Marx will also bring a squad of five to the competi­tion. The men's team will bring the regular contingency of fencers, but will be at some­what of a disadvantage due to some injuries. 
Sabreman Tim Collins has been sidelined for several weeks with ankle problems. In addition, freshman sabreman Ed Baguer will sit out this week's competition due to a pulled hamstring from last 
tle Joe Dieterle in the Flyweight class, while Feat­herweight Bill "The Mercen­ary" Hession will meet Dan Schier!. 
Two hard-hitting Welter­weiglb.ts will collide in what could be the most exciting fight of the evening. 
Both Dan Schneider and Matt Raulston punished their semi­final opponents convincingly. Schneider pounded freshman 
round of their match-up, while 
Raulston withstood a challenge 
from sophomore Norm Con­
ley ... and then pounded him. 
Pat Griffin will take on Rick 
~urcell in the Heavyweight 
fmal. Both fighters will try to 
take advantage of their fine 
physiques, but that compari­
son, as well as the fight, may 
be a toss-up. 
Three years from now the winner of tonight's Mid­dleweight bout may be vying to join an elite fraternity at Notre Dame --undefeated, four-time champions. 
Sound familiar? 

Well, Kerry Wate and Colin Mullaney may be on their way to following in the footsteps of Noom~ and four other boxers as they participate in their first --and Noone's last--edition of a Notre Dame tradition. 
weekend's Junior Olympics. 
The women's team as well will be at less than full strength. Freshman surprise Heidi Piper has been out all week due to strep throat. Piper was a key element in the wo­men's earlier season victory over the defending national champions from WSU. 
Wayne State head coach Gil Paiser will seek revenge on the Irish. Along with the home­court advantage, he will have top-ranked Lauredona Ranza back from illness. 
"If the kids fence up to their potential, that matchup with Wayne State will dictate our chances at the Great Lakes 
Champi~~~~~-. ~pd the 

Camp Vega 
FOR GIRLS P.O. BOX 1771 DUXBURY, MA. 02332 617-934-6536 

STAFFING NOW FOR THE 1989 SUMMER SEASON 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER COUNSELORS 
WHO LOVE CHILDREN AND HAVE STRONC SKILLS AND ABILITY TO TEACH ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: 
Archery, Arts &crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, computer Science, Dance, Dramatics, Field Hockey, General counselors, Guitar, Gymnastics, Lacrosse, Photography, Piano, Pioneering, Riding, Rocketry, Ropes course, Sailing, soccer, Softball, support staff, Swimming, Tennis, Track, Volleyball, waterskiing, Weight Training, Windsurfing, woodworking, Yearbook. 
FULL EICHT WEEK SEASON DROP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW: 
La Fortune Student Union February 27, 28 March 1 -Room 108 
11 :00 am to 6:00 pm -Winadu & Vega 
-~----~--~--~-----­
The Obaerver I 

NCAAs," said DeCicco. 
On Saturday, the Irish will meet one of the most powerful teams in the Midwest and per­haps the country in the likes of Illinois. 
"We need our best effort of 
the year to beat Illinois," said 
DeCicco in a lengthy pep talk 
before yesterday's practice. 
"In order for us to do that, we 
have to fence well in every 
weapon. They have excellent 
individuals, but not the balance 
like we do." 
DeCicco wrapped up his talk 
in a very brief and succinct 
manner. 
"Make it simple, make it 
quick, and make it good." 
Friday, February 24, 1989 
Pacers lose 12th straight 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA --Dominique Wilkins scored 26 points, all in the second half, as the Atlanta Hawks trimmed Indiana 100-97 Thursday night, handing the Pacers a club record-tying 12th consecutive loss. 
The Hawks, who trailed much of the first half, went ahead to stay four minutes into the third quarter, but almost blew a 12-point lead in the final two minutes of the game. 
The Pacers cut the lead to 
100-97  with  six  seconds  left.  
Mter  Atlanta's  Cliff  
Levingston  missed  two  free  

throws, Chuck Person's 30­footer bounced off the rim just before the buzzer. 
The Pacers, now 1-26 on the road this season, had two other 12-game losing streaks--in 1983 and 1985. 
The Hawks took the lead for good on Wilkins' 18-footer with 
9:03 left in the third quarter, snapping a 54-54 tie. Atlanta stretched its lead to 77-67 before the end of the quarter and led by four or more until Vern Fleming's three-point play cut the lead to the final margin. 
Wilkins was 0-for-7 from the field in the first half, then hit his first seven shots after inter­mission. 
Moses Malone added 24 points and 17 rebounds, and Reggie Theus 17 points for the Hawks. 
Detlef Schremp£, acquired from the Dallas Mavericks on 
Tuesday, made his first ap­pearance with the Pacers and scored 18 points, hitting 7 of 8 shots. Fleming added 17. 


LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke a l1fesov1ng 
Red Cross CPR course. 
~ +American Red Cross 
=RIB.
SEAFOOD~~~ 
H~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 

The Observer page 19 
•

Irish face Xavier 1n MCC play 
Final games will determine place in tournament 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Sports Writer 
Last Saturday night, the Notre Dame women's basket­ball team met Loyola in a Mid­western Collegiate Conference showdown pitting the top two teams in the conference. The Irish lost that game 108-77 but had already clinched a spot in the MCC Championships, to be held March 10-11 in Dayton, Ohio. 
This weekend, Notre Dame has an opportunity to deter­mine just who it will face in that tournament when it takes on Xavier, a team currently fighting for the fourth and final playoff spot in the MCC tourn­ament. Detroit and Dayton also remain in contention for that final berth. 
"(The MCC) only takes the top four teams for the tourna­ment," said second-year Irish coach Muffet McGraw, whose team joins Loyola and Evansville in qualifying for the post-season tourney. "Right now, both of these teams, Xavier and Dayton, have a shot at making the tournament. They need to win. They're going to be all fired up and ready to play us this weekend. 
The Irish, who took a 9-1 con­ference record (15-8 overall) 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Bookstore Basketball registration and signups are Wednesday, March 14, in Room 002 in the· basement of LaFortune from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. There is a $5 registration fee. Referees are needed and will be paid $5 per game. Scorekeepers are also needed. Any questions should be directed to Nancy at x3487 or Julie at x2667. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVIII signups are scheduled for Sunday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the Great Hall in O'Shaughnessy. Saint Mary's signups are Monday from 6 
p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Game Room in Haggar. Each team must pay a $5 registration fee, and all Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff are eligible. People with a questionable team name should bring an­other with them. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus lacrosse team will practice Tuesday at 10 p.m. at the Loftus Center. Any questions should be directed to Bill at 287-5758. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby Club will hold a meeting Tuesday at 5 p.m. in the Haggar Auditorium tor anyone interested in playing this spring. No skill or playing experience is into Thursday night's game against Dayton, conclude a four-game, eight-day road trip Saturday at 7 p.m. when they battle Xavier in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Notre Dame defeated the Lady Musketeers 66-52 earlier this season at the Joyce ACC behind freshman Margaret Nowlin's team-leading 17 points and 10 rebounds. McGraw was impressed with Xavier's play in that game and notes that it will have even more incentive entering Satur­day's contest. 
"I thought Xavier was one of the better teams in the confer­ence," she said. "They played pretty well against us here the last time we played. They've got some good inside players and a couple of good perimeter shooters." 
McGraw planned to start a younger lineup featuring three sophomores and two freshmen Thursday against Dayton. Sophomore guards Karen Rob­inson (13.6 points per game, 5.5 assists per game entering the week) and Sara Liebscher (9.86, 4.0 rebounds per game), and forward Krissi Davis (8.5, 
5.8) were to maintain their starting positions. 
Freshmen Comalita Hays­bert (6.9, 3.6) and Nowlin (4.2, 
3.5) were new inserts into the Irish lineup. Their status for Saturday's game against Xavier is contingent upon Thursday night's perfor­mances. 
"Margaret's a little bit stronger inside, and Comalita helps our running game," said McGraw. "We're going to try a little more transition, so we'll see if that can get us going." 
Although Notre Dame has 
already clinched an MCC tournament berth, Saturday's game carries other long-term implications. A win would serve as an important confidence-booster and give the Irish momentum heading into post-season play. Follow­ing consecutive losses to Loyola and third-ranked Ten­nessee in which they were out­scored by a comined total of 86 points and were virtually eliminated from both the NCAA and NIT tournaments, the Irish aim to regain the early-season form that guided them to the top of the MCC. 
"We've got to get out of the slump we're in and play a little defense," said McGraw. "We've been embarrassed twice and we need a win this weekend to boost our spirits a little bit. We need to get back on the winning track." 

The ND Water Polo Club is hosting a tournament this weekend featuring Iowa, Iowa State, Michigan State and Purdue. Action starts Friday night and continues all Saturday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Notre Dame A team faces Purdue Friday at 7 p.m. and meets Iowa Sat­urday at 10:30 a.m. -The Observer 
A women's track meet scheduled for Saturday at Meyo Track needs volunteers to help officiate it. Anyone interested should contact Linda at x2563 or Wendy at 684­4052. -The Observer 
Cross-country ski equipment rental checkouts are from 4:30p.m. to 5:30p.m. on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays and also 12 noon to 1 p.m. on Saturdays. Rates are $3 overnight, $5 for two nights and $6 for three nights at the Burke Memorial Golf Course pro shop. -The Obser­ver 
Winteriest volleyball signups end today at the LaFortune information desk. People can sign up individ­ually or as a six-person team. All games are Saturday, Feb. 25., in the afternoon. Student Union Board is spon­soring the event. -The Observer 
I I I 
j I I 
I 
l 
I 
~ 
J 
l 4 
~ 
l I l I I l I I I I I I I I I 
I 



By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team begins a stretch of six straight away matches this weekend when it travels to Ox­ford, Ohio to take Miami of Ohio. 
Although the Redskins may not have the sports reputation of the Florida school, they do boast an excellent women's tennis team. Miami has won the Mid-American Conference the last eight years and are 5-3 so far this season. 
The Irish (1-2) will have to be in their best form if they are going to overcome a team that beat them 6-3 last year. The Redskins have been successful against Notre Dame in the past, holding a 5-1 record over the Irish. 

Despite troubles against Miami in recent years, Irish head c:oach Michele Gelfman is optimilstic about the meet. Notre Dame already faced the Miami doubles teams at the Eck Doubles Classic earlier this year. At that tournament the Irlish finished ahead of the Redskins in three of the four brackets. 
"Our success at the Eck will really help," said Gelfman. "In tight matches, we may be at 3-3 or 4-2 going into the doubles. We can be confiqent that our doubles teams are on par with theirs.'' 
Gelfman has much respect for Miami, however, and realizes that her team will have to play its best in order to win. 
"Although they lost some key seniors, they have some good freshmen that bolstered their team," Gelfman commented. "They're solid at doubles, have depth at singles and are well­coached. I expect the match to be close." 
CeCe Cahill will be back in the line-up for Notre Dame, after missing Wed~esday's match against Illinois State. Kim Pacella is questionable for the Irish because she is sick with the flu. Otherwise the roster will be back to normal. 
Gelfman especially looks for Redskin junior Meg Boyle to challenge Cahill at the number one position. 
"She's solid off the baseline," Gelfman said, "and she mixes her shots well. CeCe will have to be playing her best to beat her." 

DeCicco earns USOC Kelly award 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame men's fencing coach Mike DeCicco was awarded the 1988 Jack Kelly Fair Play Award by the United States Olympic Committee at the USOC's quadrennial meeting Feb. 18 in Portland, Ore. 
DeCicco displayed exemp­lary sportsmanship and diplomacy at the 1988 fencing world championship, held at Notre Dame, when he averted a potentially serious interna­tional incident. 
During the opening ceremonies, each country's athletes were to march into the stadium and mount a stage while that country's national anthem was played. When the Cuban team marched into the arena, its national anthem was not played due to an error on the schedule of the technical staff at the arena. The Cuban delegation, offended by the omission, decided immediately to leave the arena and withdraw from the competi­tion. 
DeCicco interrupted the team's exit, however, stopping Cuban leader Rafaela Gon­zalez and convincing her that a technical error had caused the omission of the anthem. DeCicco then escorted the Cuban team back to the stadium, carrying the team's banner and thereby restoring peace and goodwill to the tourn­ament. 

DeCicco is in his 28th year as the head men's fencing coach at Notre Dame. He has won three national coach-of -the­year awards and has guided the Irish to three NCAA champion­ships, 26 winning seasons, win­ning streaks of 98 and 122 meets, and a 27-year record of 526-41. 
He was the United States world fencing team coach in 1970 and was elected to the Helms Hall of Fame in Janu­ary, 1973. 
The Jack Kelly Fair Play Award was established in 1985 to honor former USOC presi­dent the late John B. Kelly, Jr., and is presented by the USOC Education Committee each year to an athlete, coach or of­ficial for an outstanding act of sportsmanship. Kelly was an Olympic rower and bronze medalist. 
Marie Liddy Typical ND chick 
Happy 20th! 
Love, Your Million Roomies 
Think or swim. 
We give you credit for making tough choices. 
Mail this coupon, or calll-800-FINDs-NU; in Illinois, (312) 491-4114. 
.;..~· 
The Observer I Mtl<e Moo au 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team Is optimistic heading Into a contest with a tough Miami Redsklns team. The meet will be the 
start of six straight road contests for th~rlsh 
Saini M;try's College Department of Communor.~tion & Theatre presents tile Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre f)roduction of 
by Jay Presson Allen from the novel by Muriel Spark directed by Julie Jensen; designed by Unda H. Wigley 


O'Laughl1n Aud1tonum February 22. 23, 24, 25 al8:10 pm ttl--­February 26 at3:10 pm • , II Tickets: SS/'5 Students and Senior Citizens: "4 Salilt Mary~e_ tnlorm,tion coli O'Laughtin Box Ollice: 284·4626 NOT 1\ E DAME • I N 0 IAN A 

Northwestern University Summer Session '89 Think or swim. 
2003 Sheridan Road Evanston, Illinois 00208-2650 
Save me a seat. Send me a free copy of the Summ.er Session '89 catalog with financial aid and registration infonnation (available mid·March). 
Please send the catalog to 0 my home. 0 my school. 
Name  
. 5coool Address  
City  Stine  Zip  
Home Address  
City  State  Zip  

The Observer page 21 
Tennis team battling injuries during tough matches at Eck 

By BOB MITCHELL falos decisively downed the the baseline and that helps us." Sports Writer trish 3-6 last year. Colorado's The Iowa Hawkeyes will be players are a variety of styles. Notre Dame's third opponent in Last year, the men's tennis No.1 James Johnson, ranked less than 24 hours. Iowa returns team did not respond well when No. 60 in the nation, is a decep­all their player from last year's times were tough. Times could tively good player with a good squad that handed the Irish a be getting tough this year. touch and outstanding athletic 7-2 de(eat. The Hawkeyes who 
This weekend, the No. 7 col­ability. are ranked No.6 in the Midwest legiate team in the Midwest, "As a whole, Colorado is an 
are a better team on paper than 

Notre Dame, faces three tough aggressive team as are most of the 8-4 Irish. "Matches are opponents at the Eck Pavilion-­the teams from high altitudes, not played oh paper," said Colorado, Southern Illinois and and are fundamentally sound.'' Bayliss in his 20th year as a Iowa. All three teams are un­said Bayliss who also dis­collegiate coach. "Iowa will be ranked but on the fringe of missed the effects of last year's a good measuring stick to see making the Top 20. loss. "We are better than last 
how we have progressed. They 

The three formidable foes year, and it is not going to bot­have a legitimate shot at the 
are not the only thing that her us." Big Ten title. makes the Irish task difficult. On Saturday morning, the One of the major forces be­Two of Notre Dame's top six Irish will take the court against hind the Iowa's strength is singles players are hampered Southern Illinois. Notre Dame Mike Kuyett who holds the 
The Observer I Trey Reymond by reccuring injuries. No. 2 will attempt to avenge last Hawkeye's No. 1 position. The Irish men's tennis team will battle Injuries as well as opponents Brian Kalbas is suffering from year's 4-5 loss. The Saluki's Kuyett is a an aggressive Colorado, Iowa and Southern Illinois this weekend at the Eck Tennis a sore hamstring. Mike· Wal­roster mainly consists of South player who utilizes his power 
Pavillion. Bob Mitchell previews the action at right. 
MERRill lYNCH CAPITAL MARKETS CHICAGO REGIONAL OFFICE 
is currently accepting applications for the position of 
FINANCIAL ANALYST 
within the Midwest Corporate Finance Department. 
In selecting applicants for the position of Financial Analyst, Merrill Lynch looks for a record of outstanding academic achievement, extracurricular involvement and work experience, and demonstrated leadership qualities. Analysts must be exceptionally articulate, able to write effectively, and able to work well with others. Although no particular academic majors are required, some background in accounting or statistics and familiarity with computers is helpful in indicating an ability to readily acquire the tools needed for quantitative analytic work. · 
Upon completion of this two year program, Financial Analysts are generally able to enter a graduate business or law degree program at a leading 
university. completing professional careers  Many return to Merrill Lynch their advanced degrees to build in investment banking.  after their  
If y Becoming a Candidate: ou are interested in being considered for this program, send resume to:  
Jenny Grantham Merrill Lynch Capital Markets 5500 Sears Tower Chicago,.JL 60606  
Please respond before March 10, 1989.  

COMEDY 
cot~tEO~ 

lace, No.5 player, is battling a American players who boast to overwhelm his opponent. sore shoulder that has been big forehands, and excellent For the Irish, Dave DiLucia, plaging him the entire season. touches from the baseline. No. 1 player, will look to extend According to Bayliss, both SIU's Jarro Aldano, the No. 1 his eight match winning streak. players will take the court in player, is a spectator's delight According to Bayliss, the bot­all three matches. with his quickness and mastery tom three singles players, the 
"Everybody is banged up but of the baseline game. health of his team, and three you have to play the hand that "The key a victory against doubles duos will play a pivotalis dealt to you," said Bayliss. Southern Illinois is to stay even role in this weekend's action. "My philosophy is that if you're with them in the singles, and "The bottom three haven't hurt you don't play but if you win it in the doubles," said enjoyed success and its impor­play you're not hurt." Bayliss who believes that the tant for them to get started," 
Today, the Irish will face Saluki's style of play is to his said Bayliss. "Our doubles Colorado for the second team's advantage. "Southern have gotten us this far and I straight year at home. The Buf-Illinois' instincts are rooted .at hope it holds up." 

n1vers1ty o 

·cHORALE ORCHESTRA 
present: 
Durufle 's Requiem 

Sunday, February 26 8:00pm _ Sacred Heart Church free admission 
THEODORE'S is looking for ENTHUSIASTIC students to fill positions for the 1989-90 school year! 
\le needsomeone with 
the confidenceofa~ 
the dedicationor­
amarathoner andthe 
courage ofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer Call us_all-~24-8580. Ext. 9~. 

Rocco's Hair 

Styling 
531 N.Michigan St. Phone 233-4957 
oJs 

General Manager Programming Manager Operations Manager Promotions Manager Accounts Manager AND •••••••••••• 14 Assistant Managers Applications and job descriptions available in 315 La Fortune (Student Activities Office) Deadline March 3rd Have fun while gaining Practical Work Experience!! 
page 22 The Observer Friday, February 24, 1989 
Brawl mars Witchita St. win 
Associated Press team's bencnes onto the floor. higan State 76-65 ThursdayLiles was thrown out of the night for its sixth straight vic-
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -game, along with nine of his tory. . Sasha Radunovich scored 18 teammates. Wichita State's The Hoosiers, 22-5, improved points as Wichita State beat In­John Cooper also was ejected to 12-1 in the Big Ten and res­diana State 84-69 in the Mis­for punching Liles. tored their three-game lead souri Valley Conference on Mter the fighting subsided, over Illinois. Michigan State is Thursday after a first-half Wichita State ended the half 3-10 and 12-11. brawl left just four Indiana with a 46-31 lead. In other college basketball State players to complete the Despite having just four action Thursday, Duke 
game. players, Indiana State put to­dumped North Carolina State 
Wichita State led 41-25 when gether a 28-18 run to open the 86-65 at Durham, N.C. Indiana State's Darrin Liles seco][ld half. punched Radunovich with 1:46 Stephen Scheffler had 20
Indiana 76, MSU 65
left in the first half. The players points and Tony Jones added 15 collided as Liles was called for Jay Edwards got eight of his as Purdue took an early lead a foul. 21 points during a key first-half and beat Minnesota 78-63 in the The fight brought both burst as No.4 Indiana beat Mic-Big Ten on Thursday night. 
looked like they could be beaten Francisco and a Boston College by select high school teams team that had lost eight games 
Hoops 

from their respective states. in a row. How Digger keptThe Irish beat big names that talking about the "Battle to
continued from page 24 

were not playing their usual big Seattle" through those dis­
that has made for some close games. asters remains a mystery. battles in the past, Notre Dame But that was before the lacked something much big­LaSalle game. That was before 
Georgia Tech, DePaul and 
ger: I was convinced by a last­Louisville were much scarier LaPhonso Ellis. second jumper, the confident before Fredrick's jumper than Without their top rebounder survivaL of a uniform scandal they are now. I'm not about to and third-leading scorer, the and a road victory without the predict Notre Dame victories Irish put together a second-half team's super-frosh. 
through the NCAA tournament. 
surge and turned a three-point When ranked teams like halftime deficit into a convic­Syraeuse and Duke visited a But even though the ing victory in Dayton. loud Joyce ACC, Notre Dame meaningful part of the 
Before the LaSalle game, the found itself silenced by super­schedule still awaits, the Irish Irish did not prove much. ior talent. seem less doomed than they did They ran into Kentucky and And then there were those when Simmons eyed his free Indiana when those squads games against Valparaiso, San throws. 
\UrAL(.. 
Best Taste/ . e'
Tl eest pnc . CIIIIDE-..=.:-~Hunen Taste t Lunch special only $3.45 t lleliknucml ~ 7 days t Includes: 
D. . I l Mcm.-Tbllft.11:30 am to 10 pm. Fri.-&l.11:30 am to 11 pm • 1 Daily soup
1nner spec1a ' Slm. &llalidcm 11:30 am to 10 pm ' · 
f~Z9~~;~7 .25 ) tL~ches st~g at.-'--.$3.45 t ~: ~~~dR~~~e Fried Gold Honey Chickoot Dinners Starting at_ -----$4.95 t 4. One Entree with this coupon BsftqcHJ,t..Rooms .vallllble for up to 200 272 7376 until Feb. 28,1989 130 Dixie Hwy., Roseland (MXI to llcmllall'• IDa) · • 
Irish volleyball gets four recruits 

Special to The Observer 
Four high-school volley­ball players, including a first-team Reebok All­America selection, have signed national letters of in­tent to enroll at Notre Dame this fall and continue their volleyball careers with the Irish. 
Alicia Turner of the Uni­versity of San Diego (Calif.) High School, Jessica Fiebelkorn of Osseo (Minn.) High School, Marilyn Cragin of Miraleste (Calif.) High School in Rancho Palos Verdes and Cynthia May of Roselyn (N.Y.) High School all have announced plans to attend Notre Dame. 
Turner, a 5-10 outside hit­ter, was named first-team All-American by Reebok this year after leading her school to the California state 2A title during her sopho­more and junior seasons. She was twice named the San Diego CIF 2A player of the year and was an honor student. 
Fiebelkorn was a highly­regarded volleyball and bas­ketball player. The 5-10 middle blocker was an all-state volleyball selection in Minnesota and was twice was named· first-team all­state in basketball. USA Today named her honorable mention All-American bas­ketball team last year. 
Cragin was a standout vol­leyball and track performer. She finished third in the Cal­ifornia state high jump com­petition with a leap of 5-8 last year. Cragin competed on a select volleyball team last summer that traveled to the 
Soviet Union, Sweden  and  
Finland.  
May  competed  on  the  

Long Island Big Apple Vol­leyball Club which advanced to the National Junior Olym­pic tournament. 
"I am pleased with the group we have signed," said Notre Dame head coach Art Lambert, who guided the Irish to the Final 16 of the NCAA tournament this year before losing to eventual Final Four participant Illi­nois. "This year's class is a very athletic group who will have a chance to help us out next year because we graduated four senior players." 
A Weekend Full of the 
Blues ... 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY at 10:00 p.m. 
Billy 'Stix' Nicks and the N's and OUTS -featuring vocalist 'EZ' ED WRIGHT 
Don't miss these dudes! 
They're Back! 


-------. ~~~ 
~---------~------~-~-------------­
Friday, February 24, 1989 The Observer page 23 

Jerks 
OUR HEROES 5E'ARC.H FOR THE PERSON IN PERIL ... 
Friday: Campus SYR 9-12, N. Dining Hall Saturday: Ice Skating 10:30-12pm, free skates, free cookies & cocoa 
Volleyball Tourney 12-4pm, S. Quad Thursday: All Night Movies Cartoon Night 
12:30am Attack of the Killer Tomatoes Friday: 2:05am Animal House Crossing Delancy 4:00am Life of Brian Saturday: Cushing, $1 Top Gun (sponsored by GSU) Engineering Aud., 8 & 10:15, $2 


CAMPUS 
7:30 & 9:30 p.m. "Wish You Were Here," Annenberg
Auditorium. 
8:00p.m. "Simon," Washington Hall. 
8:10 p.m. "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie" O'Laughlin
Auditorium. ' 
SATURDAY 
11:00 a.m. Track, Alex Wilson Invitational, Loftus Center. 
7:00p.m. "American Pictures," Little Theatre, SMC. 
8:00p.m. "Simon," Washington Hall. 
8:10 p.m. "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie," O'Laugh · Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
9:0o-10:30 a.m. "American 'Pluralism: A Condition or a Goal?" by Walter Nicgorski, Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
12:oo-1:00 p.m. "Culture of Poverty: Myth or Reality?" by Jennifer Warlick, Center for Social Concerns, Room 124. 
12:00 p.m. "The Short Run Effects of Family Disruption for Children," by Suzanne Bianchi, ND Graduate Lecturer, Cen­ter for Demographic Studies, Cushing Hall, Room 323. 
2:0o-3:00 p.m. "Secular Humanism in Public School Textbooks: Thou Shalt Have No other God (Except Thyself)," by B. Douglas Hayes, ND Law School, Center for Continuing Education. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Three Cheese Croissant Cheese Enchiladas Fried Perch Vegetable Kabobs Seafood Newberg-Shell Poached Fillet of Cod Choc. Chip Pancakes Deli Bar 
COMICS 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Prepare fodder 56 Most distressing . 
1 Jezebel's 34 Mowbray of 60 Cry expressing husband 
films grief 
35 Very large 61 Short, ma~al.­like lyric • 
5 Desiccated 37 Gun a motor10 Irritate 64 Beginning38 Still
14 Hamstring 39 Molfify 
65 Title for a 15 Radical 
descendant of 41 Black cuckoo 
Mohammed 42 Pindar opus 
16 Commercial 
center in 66 Stigma Hungary 43 Continued sans 
67 Tweed foe interruption11 Lullaby 68 "Mr. -Goes44 Stew
19 Apportion to Town" 45 "Divine 
20 Choice 69 Settled
Comedy" stanza gradually21 Company 
47 Simple melody 23 Of a specific 
50 Rent district DOWN 
51 American 26 Type of relief Abstract · 1 Small, 
· Expressionist long-haired dog
27 Gallant's night music 52 Fiendish 2 Clarsach 3 Latin I word .... 4 Dress gaudily 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 Chaperon 6 "Kidnapped" auth. 22 Pirogue 36 Shortcut for a 54 What a priest
1 Former ship says
24 Creator of statesman commercials 39 Doll up 55 Christie's "They 25 Canadian 
Japanese 
B Marine 40 Having crossed -to predators humorist strips Baghdad" 9 King of the 27 Wooden work 57 Site of Vulcan's 
44 Sound systems Franks 628-39 
shoe forge 46 Kind of drama 

10 Unduly lenient 28 Escape notice 58 Confound 48 Croupiers'
11 Scenarist James 29 Judge 59 Chore
headgear12 Paving stone 31 Native of Bam 62 Lorna Ridd,­49 Ever and­

-'-+~~~ 13 Mouse, to a 32 V.I. Ulyanov Doone skunk 52 Oh heck! 
33 Webber-Rice 63 Londoner's last ~~;;.&.;..;..a.::;..! 18 Simpleton musical 53 Aka Lamb letter 
The Far Side Gary Larson 


"One of the nicest evenings I've ever spent at the Wilsons ... and then you had to go and do that on the rug!" 


-----~---------,~----­
Sports
page 24 


Georgia Tech Sports Information Georgia Tech's Tom Hammonds returned to the against the Irish Saturday. Hammonds Is averag­llneupthlaweekandwlllleadtheRambllngWreck lng 21.7 points and 7.8 rebounds per game. 
Hammonds returns as Tech faces ND 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
ATLANTA--Call it a knack or just plain bad luck, but the Notre Dame basketball team has an uncanny ability for playing a top-flight opponent at the worst possible time. 
First, Syracuse's Sherman Douglas fights off a back injury just in time to score 26 points and help his team end a four­game losing streak with a 99-87 win over the Irish. Then, Duke's Danny Ferry also recovers from a back injury and leads a Blue Devil team that had lost four of its last five to a 102-80 victory at Notre Dame. 
Now Georgia Tech's All­America candidate Tom Ham­monds, who saw his team lose two straight while he nursed a knee injury, is at full strength just as the Irish prepare to face the Yellow Jackets Saturday. Tipoff for this nationally-televised contest is 2:30p.m. at Alexander Memorial Coliseum. 

"Tech's as good as any team we'lll play all year, and we're lookilng forward to that chal­lenge," said Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. "We're both looking at this game as if we have to win." 
Hammonds leads the Yellow Jackets with 21.7 points and 7.8 rebounds per game. With the 6-9 forward from Crestview, Fla., sidelined last week, Tech fell to Atlantic Conference foes North Carolina State and Duke. The slump ended upon Ham­monds' return Wednesday, as the Jackets downed Virginia 73­65 behind the senior's 25 points and six rebounds. 
"Watching their game last night against Virginia with Hammonds back in the lineup, obviously he's a great player," said Phelps. "I think he's a lot-, tery pick." 
see TECH, page 22 



The Observer I E.G. Bailey
·~ 
The 59th annual Bengal Bouts will draw to a close Stepan Center. Tim Sullivan previews the finals this weekend as the finals take place tonight at below. 
Bengal finals this weekend 
Noone looks for fourth title, faces sophomore Bottini 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Eight times Notre Dame has won national football cham­pionships. 
Seven Irish football players have earned distinction as Heisman Trophy award win­ners. 
But tonight, Notre Dame's Mike Noone will attempt to en­ter an even more limited Irish fraternity, that of undefeated, four-time Bengal Bouts Cham­pions. 
Just four men have earned that distiction in the 59-year history of the Bouts. 
Noone is aiming to become the fifth. 
His match-up against upset­minded sophomore Pete Bot­tini will highlight a 14-fight card beginning at 8:00 PM at Stepan Center. 
"It's something you think about for four years,'' said 

\ 
Noone, "coming down to six minutes --an intense six minutes .... 
Noone, the President of the Notre Dame Boxing Club will be able to watch three of his fellow officers as they battle for championships of their own. 
Mike "Candyman" Canavan will be battling Troy Duncan in the Lightweight Division; Vance Becklund will look to continue his string of knockouts against Steve Riedl; and Doug Biolchini will try for his second title in as many tries versus Kurt. "Lights Out" Lauber. 
Becklund and Riedl have met in each Bengals tournaments since 1987. Their fight this eve­ning should hold no surprises for either fighter. Becklund won both earlier match-ups on three-round decisions. 
The last fight of tonight's card may hold the greatest po­tential for pain. 
Sophomore Super-Heavyweight defending cham­pion Brian Shannon will battle senior Steve Roddy, and the supports of the Stepan Center ring will be severely tested. 
Shannon proved his might last year by taking away Dan Quinn's title, while Roddy made his mark against the same fighter in Wednesday night's semi-finals. 
Roddy's vicious first-round right hand to Quinn's head ended their. fight and sent a powerful message to Shannon, who hasn't fought since last year's Bengals. 
Biolchini and junior Tim Reardon will fighting for more than just the Championship jacket. Both fighter's fathers won their own Bengal Bouts Championships in the 1960's. In fact, the elder Reardon holds 
see BENGALS, page 18 
Irish open season with wins 
Special to The Observer Ed Lund homered in a seven­The Notre Dame baseball, run fifth inning. team opened its season with a Notre Dame took the second doubleheader sweep of Trinity game 12-4 as Mike Coffey 
Thursday at San Antonio, Tex., earned the save. 
behind the pitching of fresh­
men Brian Conway and Dan Relieving starter and even­
Marzec. tual winner Marzec, Coffey struck out the side in the fifth 
In the first game, Conway with the tying runs in scoring 
struck out five and walked none position. 
as the Irish won 12-2 over Jason Martinez and Dan Pel­
Trinity (0-6). tier each hit home runs. 
Maybe they're OK, after all 
The Irish were doomed...again. 
Lionel Simmons, then the nation's second-leading scorer, stood at the 'foul line with 10 seconds on the clock and the score tied. It looked as though Notre Dame would continue its losing ways against strong teams. 
It's not that the Irish were a bad team before Simmons lost his composure, missed two free throws and gave Notre Dame a chance to win the LaSalle game last week. And it's not like every solid team in the country could step all over the Irish before Joe Fredrick hit his jumper with two ticks left on the clock to sink the Explorers. 
But the really good teams did walk on the Irish when they had to, and the bad ones (with apologies to mighty Valpo and the San Francisco Dons) even found a way to win. 
Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 


No one has since. 
I know, I know--the Irish have only played twice since then. There's no reason to get on that "Battle to Seattle" kick that Digger's been on all season. 
But there is reason to believe that a Notre Dame bas­ketball team may be coming together at the right time for once. And before the 80-78 victory over LaSalle, there wasn't. 
Those two victories proved something. 
First, the Irish beat a Houston team that not only came in with a wealth of talent, but also pulled the old "Red Uniform Trick" for a lift at the intermission. But the Cougars might have considered sticking with the gold uni­forms even after their lost luggage was returned from the airport, as Notre Dame finished off the red-clad visitors 89-80. 
Tuesday's 83-66 Irish victory over Dayton was another run-in with adversity. While the Flyers may lack the talent 
see HOOPS, page 22 



