
VOL. XXIII NO. 45 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Lebanese compromise, elect president 
Peace plan approved to try to end 14 years of civil war 
KLEIAT, Lebanon (AP) -Le­banese lawmakers elected a new Christian president Sunday and approved a peace plan de­signed to end 14 years of civil war, despite threats by a Christian general to punish them for "conspiracy." 
The legislators elected Deputy Hene Mouawad. a 32-year vet­eran of Lebanese politics and a 64-year-old Maronite Christian, to be president. They first stripped the presidency of some power, giving more authority to Moslems who would fill other top government posts. 
Fifty-eight of Parliament's 73 surviving lawmakers attended the special session in this northern town, which is under Syrian security. On the second ballot 52 voted for Mouawad and six abstained. 
Lebanon has had no president since Sept. 22, 1988, when President Amin Gemayel's six­year term expired with Parlia­ment unable to decide on a suc­cessor. 
The legislators also re-elected Parliament Speaker Hussein llusseini, a Shiite Moslem, for a one-year term. lie has held the post since October 1984. 
Christian leader Gen. Michel Aoun, whom Gemayel appointed to head an interim Cabinet until 
a  new  president  could  be  
named,  rejected  Mouawad's  
election.  

"What happened in Kleiat is an unconstitutional act and is null and void," Aoun said in a statement issued from his command bunker at the presi­dential palace in Beirut's sub­urb of Baabda. 
"We are determined to thwart the conspiracy which is being hatched to eliminate what is left of Lebanon's sovereignty and territorial integrity," he said. 
Aoun rejected the Arab League-brokered peace plan, first approved by the lawmak­ers at a session last month in Saudi Arabia. because it failed to guarantee a withdrawal of the 40,000 Syrian troops who control much of Lebanon. 
lie considers the Syrians an occupying army and fought them for six months until a Sept. 22 cease-fire called by the Arab League. Police say 930 people were killed and 2,744 wounded, most of them civil­ians, in fierce artillery battles. 
The general declared Satur­day that he had dissolved Par­liament. Most legislators de­clared his move illegal, noting that under Lebanon's constitu­tion, only the president can dis­solve Parliament. 
Aoun has called the legisla­tors traitors and threatened to punish them for approving the accord without his consent. 
Syria was the first foreign country to react to the election of Mouawad, whose first prior­ity is to form a national recon­ciliation government to end the civil war. 
An official source in Damas­cus, Sytia, quoted President Ilafez Assad as saying: "I am most glad to address to you my hearty congratulations. What was achieved today is a great accomplishment on the way to end Lebanon's long ordeal." 
In Washington, President Bush welcomed Mouawad's election and urged Aoun and other Lebanese to back his ef­forts to end the civil war. The State Department asked all parties "to refrain from vio­lence and intimidation and aid President Mouawad in reunify­ing Lebanon." 
France praised the decision and urged the Lebanese to "write a new page in. their his­tory." In Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, King Fahd expressed his "extreme joy" at the election and appealed to the world community to help rebuild Le­banon. 

AP 
The new president, the ninth Moslems, a wider share in deci­
since Lebanon's independence sion making. from France in 1943, was im­The peace plan shifts political mediately sworn in, underscor­power to the Moslem majority ing Parliament's desire to start from the Christians, who were the process of reunifying the believed to be in the majority country as quickly as possible. when the existing political sys­
tem was devised in the 1940's. 
The unanimously approved peace plan stripped the Chris­The 58 parliamentarians tian president of some power to were nine more than the quo­give the prime minister and rum of 49 needed to elect a Parliament speaker, both president. 

New fabric hangings adorn library concourse 

BY JOE MOODY 
news staff 
New fabric hangings, specifically designed for their site in the Hesburgh Library , sybollically depict some of the ways in which human beings have recorded knowledge through the ages. 
"Knowledge has no ending." . .. "Apart from God there is nothing to fear." -are two of the messages conveyed by the new hangings now displayed in the library concourse. 
Created by Barbara Peterson, adjunct assistant professor of art, art history and design at Notre Dame, "Kite-Likes and 
Letters"  were  formally  
dedicated  last  Saturday,  
November  4. The hangings  

were commissioned by Robert 
C. Miller, director of University libraries. 
Peterson, who has worked with kites and kite forms since 1983, has chosen the medium because of the feelings they can bring. "Everybody seems to relate to kites, no matter what culture they're from," she says. "They communicate happy, joyful feelings. And to me they symbolize high, soaring aspirations. They're earth­bound, but they strain against their line to go higher." 
The kites and kite forms were constucted of rip-stop nylon and fiberglass fabric. While the gold hangings merely retain the action of kite tails in the breezy concourse., the deltas could actually fly if the proper keels, spars and bridle lines were added, says the artist. 
Each of the gold kite tails bears a blue symbol. The first tail contains representations of memory aids used by primitive cultures. 
Other messages and 
see KITES I page 7 

Notre Dame AIDs· guidelines stress need for education 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER 
and KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editors 
Notre Dame established AIDS guidelines three years ago stressing the need to educate the community and handle inci­dents on a case-by-case basis. 
The guidelines, finalized in August, 1986, state that "there is no evidence that the virus is spread by casual interpersonal contact such as sharing aca­demic, social, residential facili­ties or activities." 
The "guideline statement" explains that the guidelines ap­ply to students and staff of the University who have been diag­nosed as having AIDS, AIDS Related Complex (ARC), a less severe abnormality of the im­mune system, or have tested serum positive (S+). 
The term "serum positive" refers to those who may be carriers of the disease although they may exhibit no symptoms. According to the guidelines, such persons may be able to transmit the disease. 
"It is believed that responsible guidelines and actions based on the facts will reduce the panic and emotion which have typically been present when dealing with AIDS/ARC/S+ individuals and issues," state the guidelines. 
According to the guidelines, the purpose of this document is twofold: "First, to provide only a framework within which deci­sions can be directed. The Uni­versity must analyze and re­spond to each incident of AIDS/ARCIS+ on a case-by-case basis according to its own par­ticular facts." 
"Secondly, this document ad­dresses the responsibility of the University to educate its com­munity ... the only tool available in controlling the AIDS/ARC 


and the University 
First in a five-part series 

epidemic is education," accord­ing to the guidelines. 
The responsibility of AIDS education thus far has fallen mainly on University Health Services. 
According to Carol Seager, director of University Health Services, many efforts have been made in an effort to edu­cate students on AIDS. She said that in the past a seminar with experts from the community, AIDS patients and counselors was held at Notre Dame. 
Seager said she was disap­pointed with the turnout-only 20 to 25 people attended the seminar. 
After that, Health Services went to every dorm and offered to hold in-dorm education pro­grams. Only eight to ten dorms responded with a total turnout of 20 to 25 individuals, accord­
ing to Seager. 
Finally, Health Services set­up information booths on cam­pus and distributed pamphlets on the AIDS virus and other health issues, she said. 
"When the information is hidden so that other students can't see that an individual specifically is investigating AIDS, information is more widely distributed," said Sea­ger. She added that AIDS in­formation is available at Health Services. 
This year Seager said Health Services has designated March, 1990, "AIDS month" in an ef­fort to heighten AIDS aware­ness on campus. Dr. Richard Keeling, chairman of the Col­lege Health Association Com­mittee, will be the featured speaker on the 27th of March. 
Health Services is currently working with the Indiana State Board of Health to help dis­tribute information to students, said Seager. In February, rep­resentatives from the Board of Health will attempt to train University students to become "facilitators of AIDS informa­tion," she said. In turn these students can work to educate the student body. 
As for AIDS testing, the guidelines state that mandatory testing of employees and stu­dents is not recommended. Those interested in being tested, according to the guide­lines, may be tested and coun­seled at the St. Joseph County Health Department located in the County-City Building. 
In regards to confidentiality, the guidelines state the follow­ing: 
•No person, group or agency should be provided medical in­formation without the prior written consent of the patient. 
see AIDS I page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Beware: You can get hooked to the lottery 
"Just Say No." The advice is easy to understand, but hard to follow. 
I first became addicted on the ride home after Notre 


Dame's 28-24 victory 
over Southern 
California on Oct. 21. 
A passenger in the 
car said the first one Greg Guffey 
was on him, to settle Assistant Sports Ed 
a small debt. 
As I scratched that first lottery ticket in the new "Hoosier Millionaire" game, I felt a dif­ferent high. Not necessarily the thrill of win­ning the top prize of $5,000, but just the thrill of playing. 
It was more than money. It became man vs. gamecard, man vs. odds, man vs. a money­grubbing state looking to take advantage of naive I Ioosiers. 
It meant only the chance of competing on the "Hoosier Millionaire" television show, which offers a grand prize of $1 million. 
The first half of this game was profitable, with more than $60 in wins on just $20 worth of tickets. But the game always has two halves, which can be a scary thing. 
Thus far, the second half has not been one to savor. I need a "Win One for Pete Rose" speech. 
It started as a night out, good fellowship and maybe just one chance at that $5,000 jackpot. It ended as a lesson in gambling ­quit while you're ahead. Or better yet, don't play at all. 
The first $5 brought in $6 and six more tickets. Eventually I fell $11 in debt, but two wins put me $1· ahead. 
Instead of quitting, I thought of former Notre Dame coach Ara Parseghian's battle with Michigan State in 1966. With time run­ning out, he played conservatively and settled for a 10-10 tie. 
"Twelve more tickets," I said, hoping that a big winner somehow ended up at a run-down bar in South Bend where you can still spit and throw your peanut shells on the floor. 
An hour, another beer and 38 tickets later, I called it a night. The final total was $0 up, $16 down. 
As I watched my investment go down the drain, my companions also sported long faces and thin wallets. 
One scratched with such a fervor that the numbers were barely legible, and dropped $13. The other, who slowly scratched the final number with the certainty of death, lost $11. 
All told, we lost $40. We left like three beat dogs and lamented the entire trip home about our lost fortunes. 
For a while we chased a dream that we knew would never materialize. But isn't that what life is about, searching for that impossible fantasy? 
Five thousand dollars. Five thousand bones. Five thousand big ones. 
You can do a lot of things with $5,000. 
But then again, if I ever win it, I'll probably take the payoff in tickets. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's Staff:  
Production  Busnlss  Accent  
Karen Newlove  Liz Panzicia  Robyn Simmons  
Wendy Cunnigham  Lauren Deluca  Shonda Wilson  
Maureen Gallagner  Joe Zadrozny  
Vil!wpolnt  
Janice O'Leary  Graphics  Ad Design  
Melissa Gorham  Bradford J. Boehm  Shannon Roach  
Val Poletto  
Syslllms  Day Staff  Meg Callahan  
Chrs Zaback  Julie Parker  Mindy Breen  
Dsn Towers  Erin Oneil  Sheila Jones  
News  Erin Shirtzinger  Mary Sain  
Tim O'Keefe Sandra Weigand  Sports Ken Tysiac  Ryan Roberts Anita Covelli  

The Ooserver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Monday, November 6, 1989 

WEATHER Lines show high temperatures. 40  50  
60 Pressure®© HIGH LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  Yesterday's high: 60 Yesterday's low: 42 Forecast: Partly sunny and cooler today with a high of 45 to 50. Increasing clouds tonight with a 40 percent chance of show­ers and a low of 35 to 40. Cloudy Tuesday with a 60 percent chance of show­ers during the morning and a high of 45 to 50. CLOUDY  

Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said sh~ORLD The Soviet military was cut by 235,500 soldiers will try to win one more term of office and then end her this year, and more than 7,000 tanks and 700 air­spectacular career after more than a decade in power, planes were withdrawn from Europe under a plan by according to a newspaper interview published Sunday. President Mikhail Gorbachev, the Communist Party Thatcher's popularity is the lowest of any prime minis-newspaper Pravda said Sunday. "The attack capability ter since opinion polls began in Britain 50 years ago. of Warsaw Pact forces in Central Europe has dimin­
ished," reported Pravda. 

The resignation of the Communist Party's ruling Politburo was called for by an East German Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega made Cabinet minister on Sunday. Another minister an­a campaign swing Sunday through northern areas nounced that East Germans will be allowed to travel in where the government launched a major offensive the West for 30 days a year under a new law. The against rebel forces. A day earlier, before thousands of state-run news agency ADN quoted Culture Minister people at Rio Blanco's main plaza, Ortega presented Hans-Joachim Hoffmann as saying: "We need as women who claimed their family members were killed quickly as possible a new government." or missing in Contra attacks. Ortega told the rebels to 
"stop· being an instrument .of the war-like U.S. 
government policy." 
NATIONAL 

The nation's first memorial to martyrs of the Mothers who breast-feed their babies while civil rights movement was unveiled in Montgomery, AI-taking tranquilizers or other drugs to combat the abama Sunday, a generation after Medgar Evers and "baby blues" arc subjecting their infants to unknown Martin Luther King were killed, as relatives expressed health risks and should check with their doctors, says hope that young people will carry on the spirit of that a report issued in Chicago Sunday. The report, a policy turbulent era. The memorial was made by the same statement by the American Academy of Pediatrics, says architect as the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Wash-use of tranquilizers such as diazepam, antidepressants ington. such as imipramine, and 17 other similar medications 
"may be of concern" to nursing mothers. 

OF INTEREST The administration vs. students volleyball game will be today at 5:00 p.m. in the Mod Quad vol­"They Shoot Students-Don't They?" is the leyball pit. The University Administration will challenge title of an Amnesty International presentation on the Mod Quad presidents to a 3 game volleyball match. The effect of international human rights issues on students. game will serve as the dedication of the newly reno­Panelists include students from Brazil, the People's vated "East Quad." Republic of China, India and Panama. The presentation will be at 7:00 p.m. tonight, at the Center for Social Concerns.
The Holy Cross Associates Program in Chile has its deadline for application today. Contact Mary Ann Roemer, 239-5293, or Jane Pitz 239-5521. 
A panel discussion with international pro­

Male volunteers for an educational video on fessionals will be at 6:30 p.m. tonight at Saint Mary's the problem of acquaintance rape are needed. If you in the Regina North Lounge. Meet South Bend men and ?ave .any video taping experience or are just interested women involved in various international careers and m bemg part of the solution to this problem, come to explore international career opportunities. The dis­an informational meeting in the Center for Social cussion will take place at 6:30 p.m. Concerns Lounge at 7:00 p.m. tonight. 
ALMANACINDIANA MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for November 3, 1989 

On November 6: 

Indiana's death rate for both white and 
e In 1869: The first officialnon-white infants rose last year despite pro­intercollegiate football gamegrams to provide better health services and nu­

Volume in shares 
was played in New Brunswick,trition to low-income pregnant women and their N.J. Rutgers beat Princeton, six

131.5 Million

babies. Nevertheless, state officials and a staff goals to four.
member of the Children's Defense Fund said it was premature to draw conclusions from the 
e In 1977: 39 people were State Board of Health statistics. 
killed when an earthen dam 187.28 .(J, .36 
NYSE Index 
burst, sending a 30-foot wall of S&P Composite 
water through the campus of 384.77 {71.19 
Toccoa Falls Bible College in

Mollusks are muscling their way into be­
Georgia.
Dow Jones Industrials 

coming a serious threat to the environment, ac­e In 1978: Two days after thecording to the Great Lakes Commission. At risk 2,639.51 +2.05 
Iranian hostage crisis began,are municipal water supplies, valuable fish breed­

Precious Metals 
Prime Minister Mehdi Bazarganing grounds and native lake life. Intake pipes for 

Gold f-1.90 to $381 1oz. 
and his government resigned,industrial plants and municipal water companies leaving Ayatollah Khomeini andare among favorite breeding grounds for the 2-Silver f-2.5¢ to $5.26 I oz. 

his Revolutionary Council in

inch-Iong greenish striped mollusk of European Source: AP control of Iran. 
extraction. 


~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII m~~~e~~a;re~ ~~~c ;~1 ~g~:6. 
N 
Often hailed as one of the !)J)Ui)~~®@] l:F®I1'Ui1il W!/@11'~®11'@ @miD~ ~@'Jj©©im greatest concert pianists, -llflln ndl fL!l fFI> n~{}~ = Horowitz emigrated from Rus­\'1\'/@lru\QJ truMUi:l~®U' ~@@uuLJ.u@Ui) sia in 1928 and played his first 
American concert seven days 

b411(41m'J later. 
~ = Horowitz was the model for a
-~ ­
= = generation of pianists and theUelhRQ;ItW highest-paid classical pianist in = =the world. By 1978, he was 
~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllnllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfii ~~~=i~ean~ ·~ :~~~~~~ treasure" by 

~ulUJ[Q)~[N]u &©u~w~u~~~ ~©&[R1[Q) 
ATTENTION ALL SMC AND ND WOMEN: INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS LATER THIS MONTH FOR "NEIGHBORING TALENTS" MARCH 2-3 AT O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM-GET YOUR IDEAS READY! ACTIVITIES COMING UP: CLUB TUESDAY-TOMAR ROW IN HAGGAR PARLOR WITH CAMPUS TALENT-9-11 PM 
MOVIES, ROOMMATE GAME, STEf lEN BAIRD, AND MUCH MORf 
'.·· •. • .. :r_ .,: • ., .• :-~. ' .... :.. 
.COMING THI$ v1AONTH!! 
.• 

~:---------------­
Monday, NovemberS, 1989 

No party gains majority in Greece's elections 
ATHENS, Greece (AP)-The conservative New Democracy Party led in national elections Sunday but narrowly missed a parliamentary majority, throw­ing Greece into its second pe­riod of political uncertainty in five months. 
With 86.3 percent of the votes counted, New Democracy, led by Constantine Mitsotakis, had 
46.6 percent. It was followed by former Premier Andreas Pa­pandreou's Panhellenic Socialist Movement with 40.8 percent and the Coalition of the Left and Progress, headed by Com­munist Harilaos Florakis, with 
10.6 percent. The rest went to small parties. Official returns were broadcast by state televi­sion. 
New Democracy needed 151 seats in the 300-seat single­chamber Parliament to control 

MODELS NEEDED Trend Update Seminar The Latest in: PERMS-CUTS-COLOR FREE All work done by Licensed Professionals CALL NOW OR VISIT THE 
LEMBY SALON SALON AT U.P. MALL 
271-6166 *25% Student Discount r.7 w:nunn1 
.._________________._.. 
:=:: 
= 
-

Call to Peacemaking Week 
November 5-10 -They Shoot Students. Don't They? 
Mondat\8, N©vsmb"er 6 7~n~.m. esc 
3 IF 
-fPaliT'OS~ diSCIUISSi©ll"' WDtit1l illiltSrnattli©ll"'al~ Stll.JKdiSil"'1ts 
-
Amnesty ~ntsrnattli©llilat~ 
_ = T H E 
-The Wrath of Grapes 

HEAl 

·· [J'nn='(fl!Q\w WJ©W®Ui1il0011' (J (Jro\[liJ'ilg ~© 
51

~~m{UiJ'il @Ui)@J @l~@©(!IJ@®~@; @~ 
the government after eight years of socialist rule and a brief coalition administration. 
Government projections showed New Democracy with 148 seats, 128 seats going to the socialists and 22 to the left­ist Coalition. One seat would go to an independent and another to an environmentalist. 
A tough period of bargaining was expected to begin shortly on forming a new government. The leading parties are widely divided over such major issues as economic policy and the presence of U.S. military bases in Greece. 
Mitsotakis told a news con­ference his party would "act in a way that is best for the na­tion" but did not spell out his plans for working out a coali­tion. 
The Observer 
The Observer/Kevin Weise 
Ready to race 
Robert Hollis enters his car before the Dodge Driving Competition which took place in the JACC parking lot on Friday. The event was intended to promote safe driving habits in young drivers. 
Pianist Vladmir Horowitz dies at 85 
NEW YORK (AP) -Vladimir afternoon of a heart attack at Horowitz, the Russian-born his home in Manhattan. virtuoso who brought He said Horowitz had been in "controlled thunder" to the pi-good health recently and as re­ano in a glorious career that cently as last week was record­spanned most of the century, ing, his living room trans-died Sunday at his home, his formed into a studio as was his manager said. He was 85. custom. Less than three weeks
The manager, Peter Gelb, said ago, hundreds of admirers Horowitz died in the early filled a midtown record store 
Gelb said, when he played at = New York's Lincoln Center and the reopening of the refur­= bished Carnegie Hall. 
= He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Wanda, the daughter 
~~!~:~~edconductor,Arturo 
In a letter of condolence to Mrs. Horowitz, composer and = conductor Leonard Bernstein called the temperamental pi­
= anist "this amazing man." 
"He was not only a super pi­
anist, but a super musician = with all the mortal fallibilities = such geniuses have," Bernstein wrote. = Pianist Andre Watts said, "It would be hard to come up with = an equivalent. There isn't an­other Horowitz. Thank God for 
=recordings." He likened him to "a demon barely under control out there on the stage." 
for an album-signing session. 
Horowitz's last public per­formances were in the spring of 1987 in Berlin, Hamburg and Amsterdam, Gelb said. The year before, he had returned to Moscow for the first time in 61 years for an emotional, memo­rable concert shown on Ameri­can television. 
-------~­

page 4 Monday, November 6, 1989 

Referendum victory sets up
Link between 
battle over Gary gambling 

Francisco General Hospital. 

brain disorders still a 
GARY, Ind. (AP) -Casino 
gambling supporters, fresh from a victory in a citywide ref­erendum, plan to emphasize economic development and local control when they ask a skeptical Gov. Evan Bayh and the Indiana General Assembly to approve gambling legisla­tion. 
Voters in this economically depressed steel town endorsed casino gambling by a wide margin on Saturday, setting the stage for a legislative battle in the 1990 General Assembly over the proposal to allow casino­hotels to be built on the Lake Michigan shore. 
"J\n opportunitv for iobs and economic revitalization ­

AIDS 
continued from page1 
•The 
duty of the University physicians and other health care providers to protect the confidentiality of information can only be superseded by the necessity to protect others in very specific, threatening cir­cumstances. 

•The 
number of people at the University who are aware of the identity of the AIDS/ARCIS+ individuals should be kept to a minimum both to protect the confidentiality and privacy rights of the individuals and to avoid the generation of unnec­essary fear and anxiety within the University community. 


"Each case would be individ­
ualized," said Seager. "We want 
to respond to the needs of the 
individual as they arise. As for 
who would know if a student 
had AIDS, that would vary 
from person to person." 
"Since people do not contract 
AIDS from casual contact, it's 
not necessary for students who 
are not in close contact with 
the AIDS victim to know," she 
said. 
In addition, the guidelines 
specifically address the every­
day issues of campus life and 
how they would affect an AIDS­
infected individual. 
In regards to campus em­
ployment, the guidelines state 
that AIDS-afflicted individuals 
should retain their jobs as long 
as they are able to perform job 
duties. 
Concerning student activities, 
"There is no medical justifica­
tion for restricting the access 
of AIDS/ARC/S+ individuals to 
campus facilities/activities such 
as the dining halls, student ac­
tivity facilities, swimming 
pools, recreational facilities or 
other common areas," accord­
ing to the guidelines. 
In the area of student hous­ing, the guidelines state that "The best current available medical information does not support the existence of a risk to those sharing dormitories with AIDS/ARC/S+ individu­als ... there is no medical neces­sity to advise others living in the dormitory of the pres­ence/identity of an AIDS/ARCIS+ individual(s)." 
Finally. as for classroom at­tendance, the guidelines state that the AIDS/ARCIS+ individual should be allowed to attend class in an unrestricted manner as long as he/she is physically able. 
that's going to be the pitch," said Rep. Earline Rogers, D­Gary. "In the absence of the state coming up with a way to solve our problems, we've come up with something ourselves." 
Mayor Thomas Barnes and other Gary casino advocates, including representatives of the gambling industry, believe the city could support five lakefront casino-hotels, which would produce 25,000 casino-related jobs and another 10,000 jobs for construction workers. 
Those figures, coupled with a 
60.4 percent vote in favor of casinos by Gary residents in the non-binding referendum, make a strong case, casino advocates believe. 

WALLYBALL ••• 
VOLLEYBALL IN ARACQUETBALL COURT 
REGISTER AT NVA DEADLINE: NOV. 8 

Thanksgiving Break Volunteer Opportunities 
Friday, November 24 
Miami, Florida 
service project with U. of Miami students before the game >Free Housing Available< 
4 Da.vs in Chicago 
serving the homeless at The House of The Poor 
4 davs in Toronto, Canada 
with a Henri Nowen's Daybreak L'ARCHE Community 
0Ui)~@[f[ffii)@~~@Ui) [M~@j[ffi~ lFUJJ~~[Q)~w 
Nov. 7 7p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns 

For the facts call }Uur local Red Cross. or write, AIDS 
+
1\merican Red Cross t:n= Wishington. OC 20006 

Monday, 
November 6, 1989 The Observer page 5 
,~:~~ 
r' Lawyers do not search for truth, 

IS IT FAtR? 
Protest banner The Observer/Kevin Weise Siegfried Hall residents show their dissatisfaction with the recent loss of matching funds through one of a number of banners from hall windows on campus. 
Closed DART courses as of Nov. 3 
0008  0229  1276  2053  5105  5308  
0010  0401  1357  2055  5143  5311  
0013  0402  1358  2377  5144  5474  
0015  0572  1359  3148  5145  5475  
0030  0749  1360  3219  5146  5487  
0051  0752  1361  3257  5149  5502  
0083  0805  1365  3273  5284  5549  
0091  1248  1814  3274  5303  
0092  1249  1817  3350  5304  
0100  1254  1818  5035  5305  
0166  1264  1834  5038  5307  

CAN YOU FILL THIS UNIFORM? 
NON-VARSITY NEEDS BASKETBALL REFEREES GOOD PAY FLEXIBLE HOURS SIGN-UP AT NVA IN THE .JACC 
just provide service, says ND grad 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 

The function of a lawyer is not to search for truth, accord­ing to contingent fee and trial lawyer Phil Corboy, but rather to carry out the responsibility of providing a service for a client under the rules of the Constitution. 
Corboy, a Notre Dame grad­uate who practices law in Chicago, gave a lecture entitled "How To Do Well and Do Good: Can They Be Done at the Same Time?" to graduate law stu­dents on Friday. 
Corboy has practised law for about forty years, and is presently representing the plaintiff in a case regarding the recent Sioux City airplane crash. 
"If a person has the respon­sibility of seeking damages, as I do ... " he said, "that respon­sibility is to seek damages. My job is not to supply the bottom line of truth, but rather whether or not a jury can be s with sufficient infor­mation to find legal responsibility." 
Corboy warned the students about some obstacles to the practice of "good" law, includ­ing the fact that the number of lawyers in the United States is increasing immensely. 
"Those that survive will do well," he said, "but I don't know how you can do good when there are that many peo­ple around." 
Another obstacle Corboy mentioned was the practice of calling or writing potential clients or advertising in such a way that encourages people to sue for damages when they would not have otherwise con­sidered others at fault for their injuries. 
"That tells the world if you hurt go see this guy." he said. 
He said that although these practices are legal, the)' are an obstacle to doing good. 
N arne-calling, said Corboy, is another impediment to the practice of good law. Since lawyers are often stereotyped as lacking in ethics, a lawyer can feel unloved, he said. 

"If you want to be told that you're important, hang around with your peers and don't go out in the real world." he said. 
Money, Corboy said, is also an obstacle. The average in­come of an attorney has been increasing more rapidly than a rise in the cost-of-living alone would justify, he said, and this can be an improper motivation for lawyers. 
Lawyers feel obliged to win at any cost, and this encourages them to cut corners, he said, because "Clients don't come to losers." 
Despite all the obstacles, Corboy said, it is still possible and desirable to practice good law. 
"With your education, with your affinity for what you know is right, that you started long, long ago, through your parents, teachers, jobs you had, you know what's right and what's wrong." he said. 
"You apply. the same respon­sible attitude for the practice of law that you've learned in the last quarter of a century." 
Ol{1ENTAL t:YPRt55 
Fresh Ingredients No Mass Productions 
272-6702 
Chinese, Vietnamese and American Food 
r,_)29 t:niu·r~ill COJ1111ll111' '>oulh t~eml I·" 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
.------·COUPON SAVINGS------...,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts : 
L--------------~~~~-1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I MasterCuts I
I Reg. $8 family haircuttes
r-------------------1I 
I ssoFF ANY PERM I 
I MasterCuts I
I family haircuttes I 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters University Park Mall 277-3770 


''l'/1 . ~· . t:\r!T

\ !'m.F:n 
Monday, November 6, 1989
The Observer

page 6 
····················································································~ 
•
•
•
•
•
• •
• •
•
•
•

• 
•

•
• 
5• KIDDER, PEABODY & CO. !• i Incorporated !
• 
••

• •
•
•
• l •
: cordial y invites :
•

. : 
• 

5 NOTRE DAME SENIORS i
• • 
• 
• • 
• 

!• to attend a presentation on the two-year !• •
• 

• i• INVESTMENT BANKING i• 
• 
!• FINANCIAL ANALYST PROGRAM !• 
• • i Monday, November 6,1989 i 
i 7:00 -9:00P.M. i !• Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 5• • 
•

• i Reception to follow presentation. i
•

•
• 
•
• 
•

•
: .
. : 
!.··············································································································! 
~-----~----~----------------------~-----------------~----------------~~~ 
Monday, November 6, 1989 The Observer page 7 
College profs disdain administration, students, says survey 
NEW YORK (AP) -College Three-quarters consider their of its kind since 1969. flattering about their bosses: teachers are generally satisfied students "seriously unprepared Fifty-five percent agreed that 64 percent rated the adminis­with their jobs but disdain au­in basic skills," and 68 percent most undergraduates at their tration on their campus either tocratic administrators and feel colleges spend too much schools "only do enough to get "fair" or "poor," a percentage lazy, grade-grubbing students time and money. teaching stu­by," 70 percent believed stu­hardly changed from two simi­who lack basic skills, according dents what they should have dents have become more grade­lar surveys in 1984 and 1975. to a survey released Sunday. learned in high school. conscious, and 84 percent Sixty-nine percent regarded 
Two-thirds of the 5,450 cam­"Public education, despite six agreed that students have be­administrators as pus faculty polled by the years of reform, is still produc­come more careerist in their "autocratic." Only half felt Carnegie Foundation for the ing inadequately prepared stu­concerns. their college or university is Advancement of Teaching be­dents," concluded the survey, Forty-three percent felt stu­managed effectively. lieve there has been a "The Condition of the Professo­dents are more willing to cheat On the other hand, more col­widespread lowering of stan­riate: Attitudes and Trends, to get good grades. lege faculty expressed overall dards in U.S. higher education. 1989." It was the fourth survey Professors were hardly more satisfaction with their profes-
FRANK W. LUERSSEN Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Inland Steel Industries 
will present a public address titled 

"Restructuring for Global Competitiveness" 

Monday, November 6 4:15 p.m. Hayes-Healy Auditorium Manville Executive-In-Residence Program College of Business Administration 
sional lives than five years ago. 
Only 20 percent thought that this is a poor time for young people to consider academic careers, compared with 50 per­cent in 1984. 
Seventy-seven percent felt ex­citing things were taking place in their disciplines, and an iden­tical percentage disagreed with the statement, "If I had it to do over again, I would not become a college teacher." 
Kites 
continued from page 1 
meanings conveyed by the 
hangings include an Aramaic 
square script carrying the 
Hebrew lewtter that form the 
word "Knowledge" as well as a literary script from a tenth century gospel lectionary bearing the greek work "Wisdom". 
The fifth tail, in the latin words "incipit liber," meaning "here begins the book" refers to the work of Celtic Christian scribes between 790 and 830 AD. 
The eighth tail is a reference 
to UNLOC, The University of 
Notre Dame Libraries' Online 
Catalog, that brings the 
knowledge symbols intop the 
computer age. 
"liF£8 ABEACH... 
(lutilllu•Jhx11lllr/ll'r.i. uf t1 hmi/Utllt' 1 lflil'l'tlm/lt 11111'11. lt•nJ>n g lmmJ.rl'fL~ 1umwlt'S.' If11111 rwil '~!"In' 'i(rtl/t'lUI/I'(.OJii'{JI 1/fl/1 fJ/1(/Iif/rJ/Jt rl.JUJI/II't/ 
=+ 



4:30 Greek Streak (sign up at 2:30 at Fieldhouse Mall) 8:00& 
10:15 Animal House -Cushing Auditorium 
QEA,NE~AAY 
Wednesday 
4:30 Earthbt.ll -·White Field SuperSkis -South Quad Skateboard & Plunger Relays -Stepan Couru Scavenger Hunt -·Campus Wide 
5:30 Tug'O War -White Field 
8:00 & 
10:15 Revenge of the Nerds ·-Cushing Auditorium 
THY}'};M'f 
Thursday 
4:00 Pudding. Jello, & Pie Eating Contests --Fieldhouse Mall 3 Legged Races, Mattress Races, Dizz:y lu:y Races -· North Quad 
..PIM'f 
Friday 
4:00 Oostacle Course ··South Quad 

---------------------------------~------------~---------~ -----------­
Business 
page 8 Monday, November 6, 1989 
Cyberphobia strikes, 
Unemployment holds steady

Wall Street afflicted 
WASHINGTON (AP)­manufacturing slump spills it might relax its hold on credit Unemployment held steady at over into related services indus­when its policy-makers meet 

NEW YORK (AP)-Among "We are not waxing nostalgic 5.3 percent last month as the tries. next week, when the govern­its many other affiictions, Wall for the good old days," DeVoe economy added 233,000 jobs, They also said the unexpected ment will have issued new infla­Street lately has come down declared. "But something is the government said Friday in a job growth and fresh evidence tion data. with a new and acute case of terribly wrong. The capital and report that stifled talk of an of persistent wage inflation cyberphobia. stock markets used by a small imminent drop in interest rates. would keep the Federal Reserve "The economy is clear!y 
The term, defined simply as number of players are being The surprising economic from easing its hold on credit, slowing down but once agam the fear of computers, was ruined for everyone else." strength to begin the fourth which in turn would have trig­there's no recession in these coined decades ago when scien­quarter -which came despite gered lower interest rates for numbers," said Michael Evans, tists first began to experiment While those issues were de­the seventh consecutive monthly consumers. head of a Washington forecast­with electronic methods of bated, stock prices managed to decline in manufacturing -The Labor Department said ing firm. "There is, however, handling information and con­cut their October losses a bit in was largely attributed to con­average hourly earnings rose continued sign of accelerating ducting business. the past week. The Dow Jones tinued local government hiring 0. 7 percent in October. Most wages and the Fed is worried 
Now it is focusing on the average of 30 industrials closed for the school year. analysts had anticipated job­about that, so they couldn't computer-driven tactics, such Friday at 2,629.51, up 32.79 Automobile manufacturing growth of about 150,000 and a possibly ease as a result of this as multiple transactions involv­from the week before. led the overall decline in the in­0.4 percent boost in hourly report." ing stock-index futures and in­The New York Stock Ex­dustrial sector. earnings. dividual stocks, that are collec­change composite index rose Analysts interpreted the data "The Fed will be in a no­Initial reaction in financial tively known as program trad­1.68 to 187.28; the NASDAQ as proof no recession would change stance at least until the markets to the stronger-than­ing, and are feared to be composite index for the over­come this year although some next unemployment report," expected report was muted; threatening severe harm to the the-counter market gained 0.64 said the economy would flirt said Allen Sinai of Boston Co. both the stock and bond mar­integrity of the markets. to 452.97, and the American with one early next year if the Economic Advisers. Others said kets were little changed. 
The latest outcry began in Stock Exchange market value last month's "Friday the 13th index was up 1.78 at 371.79. Massacre" when the Dow Jones Average volume on the Big 
Japanese may be buying America,

industrial average fell more Board came to 148.18 million than 190 points. shares a day, against 175.01 The market was perceived to million the week before. 
but U.S. big in foreign market buys

be at the mercy of mindless The question of whether computer-generated transac­computers ought to play some tions, governed only by a few role in stock trading seems to NEW YOHK (AP)-The billion. The truth is that companiesnimsy, untested safeguards have been settled for good. Japanese will own 51 percent of The Japanese have more ca­in all the major industrialized adopted since the Crash of Without the capacity they pro­the Christmas tree in Hocke­pacity to invest abroad because nations are investing overseas,1987. vided to process all types of feller Center this winter, 51 of their towering trade sur­hoping to establish beachheads 
"This is insanity," said Hay­orders, everybody agrees, the percent of Hadio City Music pluses, but the Americans are in each other's markets and mond F. DeVoe .Jr. in a com­markets would surely have been Hall and 51 percent of the Art making certain not to lose out transform themselves into mentary for Legg Mason Wood overwhelmed on Black Monday Deco skyscraper where Tom in the global acquisition game. global competitors. Walker Inc. "The stock ex­in 1987 or in this year's selloff. Brokaw and David Letterman Most U.S. overseas purchases Ford, for example, already is 
change has become a casino for Furthermore, the idea of work. scarcely make news. Few no­much more entrenched in Eu­'players,' with everyone else outlawing program trading is The $846 million investment ticed this past week when Totes rope than Nissan Motor Co. taking it on the chin." nowhere near as simple as, say, in Hockefeller Group Inc. this Inc. of Ohio bought a West Ltd. or Toyota Motor Corp. is Or as .Jay Donnaruma at banning speeding on a highway past week by Mitsubishi Estate German umbrella distributor in the United States. IBM is so First Albany Corp. in Albany, or smoking in a restaurant. Co. provoked a fresh spate of and renamed it Totes Deutsch­well planted in foreign markets N.Y., put it: "Some kind of Stock-index arbitrage is a headlines about how foreign­land. Or when International that it is perceived as a local 
compromise should be reached broad and flexible strategy that ers, Japanese in particular, Business Machines Corp. company.before there is nothing left but could, at least in theory, be were buying up America. bought one-fifth of a Dutch "This is not something that computers trading with other carried out in a lot of other The headlines were under­software company, Delaware started today or this week or computers." places in the world if it weren't standable. The deal involved the Computing, from its Belgian last week. The most dynamicActually, most critics of the permitted in U.S. markets. If first family of American capi­parent. element of international eco­new trading techniques protest index futures were outlawed, talism as well as a major But despite the lack of public­nomic transactions over the 
that they aren't cyberphobes at substitutes to serve the same tourist and media center. It 
ity back home, Americans were past decade or two decades has all. It's not the use of comput­purpose might quickly appear. came a month after Sony the biggest cross-border buyer been foreign direct investment," 
ers they object to, they say, but Faced with such obstacles, Corp.'s agreement to buy an­of companies in Europe in the said Peter Hansen, executive di­the abuse of new systems for opponents of program trading other cultural symbol, Columbia first half of 1989, according to rector of the United Nations' 
purposes never intended in the have turned of late, with some Pictures Entertainment Inc. British-American Deal Review. Center on Transnational Corpo­markets. apparent success, to political What was often missed, "When Americans fear that rations. 
And besides, they say, you pressure and moral suasion. though, is that while the their landmark real estate and don't call it a phobia when the Japanese are buying in the their top corporations are be­The foreign investment that danger you fear is real. Money managers at a few in­United States, Americans are ing consumed by foreign preda­some Americans fear is a prob­
vesting institutions have with­buying overseas as well. A case tors, they must remember that lem that most Third World na­
Many brokerage llrms have drawn, or threatened to with­in point is Ford Motor Co.'s at the very same time America tions would love to have. Theyresponded by vowing to swear draw, their business from bro­agreement this past week to is the largest acquirer in Eu­can't get foreign money to build off or at least cut down on kers that engage in program buy the British luxury au­rope," said Mark Dixon, the re­essential factories, roads and program activity. activity. tomaker Jaguar PLC for $2.5 vinw's editor. bridges. 
Grandchild told to keep eyes open, avoid infant's 'hot tips' 
An open letter to my first You, on the other hand, R between rocket science and are not to be trusted, now or grandchild: are in a marvelous position Louis Ukeyser brain surgery before you are in the future.) Dear Samantha, to observe and decide for weaned; it is only to suggest Most of all, I hope that as 
I don't know why every­yourself. You arc embarking Tribune Media Services that the earnestness with your economic knowledge in­body says grandparents arc on the live best learning which you undertake your creases along with all the soppy and prejudiced. After years of your life, to be fol-would much rather still be education is not unrelated to other things you will be ab­taking my first look at you, I lowed immediately by the rocking in your cradle. So I what will come your way sorbing that you will learn think any objective obsnrver, second-best five years. And hope you will indeed follow later on. to keep envy in check. It is even one wholly unrelated, you are lucky to have bright, your heart, because that And I hope you will, along the most destructive would have to conclude that loving and supportive par-oddly will point the way your the way, gain an emotion, in economics as in you were about the cutest ents. head should be going, but I understanding of money that other human activities. thing on the planet. No bias My wish for you is that, hope you will also under-so frequently eludes most Ignore those whose lives are there: just honest reporting. while nurturing the proudly stand that part of the edu-people. It should be neither crippled by bitterness 
But I would lose my cre­individual personality that is cational process is to make your obsession nor the toward the success of dentials as a professional every human's right and yourself economically sal-object of your ideological others; keep focusing,deep thinker if I did not now destiny, you will develop able-rather than counting, disdain. Money is a tool, instead, on your own pause to offer you some both your heart and mind. as so many silly people did, useful for buying things beautiful star. sage advice on economics, Some foolish grown-ups act on the empty promise of (including stuffed pandas, finance and other subjects of as if those two goals are some politician to guarantee and bassinets) and capable Meanwhile, though, take a profound importance to one somehow in conflict, but the them a good job. of doing much good in this few days off and enjoy life. It of your obvious promise. reverse is true; neither can You may regard such ca-world, including keeping you has a lot to offer to a smart 
So my first piece of grand­be fully achieved without the reer advice as premature. off the welfare rolls. You kid who will keep her eyesfatherly advice is to be wary other. (The Japanese, generally will eventually even want to open in between naps. But of all such advice. One of the "Love is all you need," thought of as the most seri-start saving some of it, you know all that already,first things you are likely to sang the bards of the '60s, ous of nations, believe in in-though the size of your Samantha; after all younotice, if you keep those but they were wrong, as the dulging babies until they are allowance may seem to make weren't born yesterday. You gorgeous at-Ieast-tempo­ensuing years so cruelly 5, then throwing them this a discouragingly were born last Thursday. raily-blue eyes open, is that proved. You also need intel-headlong into a competitive difficult prospect for a Lots of love, people travel around the ligence, and marketable society. Count me as an while. (Avoid those fellows GRANDPA world and see nothing; skills, and a willingness to American gradualist on that who come up to you on the others journey through life show up and be productive, one.) My intention is not to playground and offer to give ©1989 Tribune Media Ser­with all their biases intact. sometimes on days when you pretend that ou must decide you a "hot tip"; such infants vices 
------~------~~~~~~~--~~~~~~==~--~~~--------------~ 
___------!..6...------------' ••a!...,~'& • •.. ,...,. ·a • ··~.. -..'a ·a-·· -a·· ------·---• -•--• • • • • -• • • • • • -• ...... --­

Viewpoint
Monday, NovemberS, 1989 
page 9 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager.........Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor . . ........Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .....Shannon Roach Sports Editor ......... :.Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor... ................John Blasi Systems Mgr ....... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......Eric Bailey OTS Director . . ...... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor . . Christine Gill Controller... . ................... Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspape1 published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol· 1c1es of the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther institution. The news.1s reported as accurately and ob· Jecllvely as poss1ble Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the maJority of lhe follow1ng Editor-m-Ch1ef. Managmg Editor. Executive News Editor. V1ewp01nt Editor, Sports Ed1tor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters, and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the community and the lree express1on of varymg op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 


Brady Bunch syndrome strikes administration 
and race relations, to name a you can get out of my house."? thirty minutes. We, however, them. Closed-minded conde­By Brendan Short few. Will these problems simply Certainly abortion is a more live in a real world with real scendence from those who be­fade to black? What will the pressing problem than getting problems. Unfortunately, the lieve they are God's mouthpiece 
Some people like to think of Notre Dame family do to re­hit in the nose with a football. Notre Dame family all too often has been at the heart of most Notre Dame as one great big solve them? What if these is­Maybe the Jeffersons could looks for a scriptwriter's magic discussions over the issues. happy family-the Brady sues arose on "The Brady move in next door. Possibly pen to resolve all disputes and Rather than opening their Bunch, if you will, of all univer­Bunch"? What would Mr. Brady Carol would make an ambigu­restore the University to its minds to diverse attitudes, sity families. Whereas other do? ous statement that George golden image. these people merely present schools struggle daily to com­What if Peter Brady said, "I would perceive as being racist. The Notre Dame family's what they see as accurate solu­bat serious issues that tear at realize that when it's time to Would Mr. Brady method of problem-solving tions to the "problems" of the very fibre of campus life, change then it's time to change "affectionately" call Mr. usually consists of the follow­others. some at Notre Dame think that into who you are and what Jefferson "Nigger George" and ing. If you disagree with us, you So what are the answers? I our "family," being under the you're going to be. Well, I fi­say that, since Carol is a kind, are wrong. Go to the Grotto, don't know; I don't think any­sanctity of the Dome, can easily nally know who I am. Dad, I'm gentle women, she obviously talk to a priest, say a prayer, one does. In fact, I'm not sure overcome the few problems we gay."? Would Mike Brady indi­meant nothing by the com­think it over. If you rectify your if we even need the answers. do have. A visit to the Grotto, a rectly compare his son to a ment? Would he then state that misguided beliefs, we will wel­These issues are so ambiguous game of basketball, a cultural criminal? Would he get up on the Jeffersons should appreci­come you back with open arms at times that they often lack awareness week, a National his chair shout that he, Greg, ate the community's benevo­and forget the past. definite solutions. We do, how­Championship-all these are and Bobby are not homosexu­lence for allowing them to move Some problems, however, ever, need a collective under­viewed as remedies to prob­als? Would he tell Sam the into the neighborhood? Maybe cannot and should not be ad­standing that our beliefs are lems. Just as every problem Butcher to crank call and ha­Mike Brady would merely say dressed in such a sympathetic not infallible. We should also that arises on "The Brady rass his son? Maybe he would that George is on a witch hunt yet narrow-minded fashion. respect and be attentive to the Bunch" is solved and disap­just ignore Peter and pretend and should keep his mouth Homosexuality, abortion, and thoughts and beliefs of others. pears forever, all problems at he heard nothing. Hmmm ... I shut. Or the Brady's might try racial issues are not clear-cut If we open our minds and our our university, some believe, wonder. to appease the Jeffersons by topics. Questions rarely lead to hearts, maybe the Notre Dame eventually vanish, never to Perhaps Marsha would join inviting them over for a "soul concrete answers; they only family will cease to be an im­reappear. the National Organization for food dinner." lead to more questions. age-conscious, TV-type family 
Recently, some who may not Women and adopt a pro-choice "The Brady Bunch," by any Recently, students and faculty and become a real one. consider themselves accepted view of abortion. Would Mr. standards, was a silly show. In members have thrust these im­Brendan Short is a juniormembers of the Notre Dame Brady say, "God says no to the fantasy land of television, portant issues upon the campus majoring in American Studies family have raised serious is­abortion; I must say no too. problems have a way of community. So far, few seem with concentrations in sues: homosexuality, abortion Case closed. If you don't like it, miraculously disappearing in willing to seriously discuss ~Communications and History. 
LETTERS 

Suspension of funds doesn't match-up with ~rime; administration is 'hurting the innocent' 
Dear Editor: Before snow was even pre­dent of the relevant policies and each dorm. Nor did it say any­of the $50 security deposit that 
I am responding to the recent dicted, dorms received approval where this particular policy of thing concerning the suspen­each student must pay each suspension of matching funds to make specific purchases for removing funds is printed. sion of matching funds. Yet, by year go towards the repairs? to the students as a punishment their dorm's improvement. Be­Granted, a letter was posted in taking this action, everyone is What exactly are the dorms for the snowball fight which lieving they would receive two­each dorm, yet how many stu­being punished and necessary that have already spent their occurred on Oct. 19. This ac­thirds reimbursement, many dents actually saw it three dorm impro~ements are not money going to do? Why tion could cause devastating ef­dorms, including Pasquerilla hours before the snowball fight going to be made. I believe that weren't the students given ad­fects for the dorms that have West, Siegfried, Flanner, Dil­occurred? The Administration the administration is trying to vance warning of the policies already made purchases, such lon, and Alumni, went ahead was given ample time to print put the blame on someone, but concerning snowball fights? as the loss of an SYR or the and make purchases. Yet now an article in the newspaper or instead of punishing those in­Who is the action really hurt­loss of funding for community with the loss of these funds, the post snowball fight regulations volved, they are hurting the in­ing? These questions need to be service projects, academics or dorms are expected to pay for in the dorms in advance. The nocent. answered by the administration dorm athletics, an·d is in the items themselves. weatherman was predicting Will the entire $20,000 allo­and upon answering these 
-essence punishing the wrong In addition to the question of snow three days before anyone cated for matching funds be questions an alternative pun­individuals. A minute number of how dorms who spent money saw the letter. used for repairing the damage ishment needs to be found. students were involved in the will pay for the items, I would Also, the letter spoke of pun­resulting form the snowball 
Katie Pamenter 

incident, and yet all must suf­like to know why students were ishing only the individuals in­fight? If not where will this Breen-Phillips Hall fer? not informed prior to the inci-volved, not every member of money go? Couldn't a portion Nov. 1, 1989 
DOONESBURY 
------.. 
IJIUY BOY! I HeARIJ TH& 
WHAT A BIZARRe TURN OF 

Ntu/5 fRO'rl MIS5 Nla<te l 
/3vet-ITS! 1MeAN,HeRe's7H&

I'M 5000 SOf?I<Y YOU'Re 
NATION~ llRJJ6CZARO~t¥i 

?TIU AlJlJICTW 7D A MUl-TI-8/UION-IlO/..JAR&FfORT NICOTIN&' ~ TO Pf?&VEfNT P/30PU3 fi?OM USING IJANG8R/Jll3 
[Jf<U6'3 ... \ ---._ 
~ 

... /A/Hil-t BACI< IN H/5 OFFice, He 
f3PeNP5 AUPAYCHOMPIN6 ON 
AN At/<AI.()IIJ 50 FfJ150NOUS fT's 
COMMONl-Y tJ~A51NSI!C17CJIJE! 
GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
I 8E6 YOUR PARIXJN! \  OH... 50RRY, M1'35 NICKle. I f)Jf?NTMtAN YOU~ \  ' .By caring for the young, we create a blue print for our survival.'  

Anonymous 

..---..---------------------------------~-~---~-------~------­
Viewpoint

page 10 Monday, November 6, 1989 

East German unrest poses no easy solutions 
By Joseph Novak 
In the last several weeks East 
Germany has been shaken to its 
core. Thousands of its citizens 
havn ruslwd embassy gatos in 
Budapest and Prague with 
50,000 ultimately escaping to 
the West. Meanwhile, large 
demonstrations have taken 
place throughout the country­
on Oct. 30 alone, 300,000 
people marched through the 
streets of Leipzig shouting 
"Gorby" and "We want to stay." 
The twin shocks of interna­
tional embarrassment and in­
tnrnal discontent have even 
taken its toll on the previously 
rock-solid German Communist 
party. Erich llonecker. party 
leader for almost two decades, 
was forced to resign and make 
way for Egon Krnnz, a younger 
hard-linnr. 
The dilemma faced by the East German leadership is not difficult to fathom. Essentially, East Germany can follow one of two paths. The first involves the adoption of Gorbachev-style reforms like glasnost for the press and perestroika for the economy. The other involves the affirmation of the communist values that made East Germany a "worker's paradise," if only to its leaders. 
Both choices are risky. If East Germany opens up its political system while adopting variations of free market eco­nomics, its entire reason for being could disappear. Unlike Poland or Hungary, East Germany has no independent existence beyond being "the first workers and peasants state on German soil." Simply put, the closer the East German system moves to meet the Western model the more sensi­ble the idea of German re-unifi­cation becomes. 
On the other hand, a "rejectionist" stand against re­form taken along with China, Czechoslovakia, Cuba and Homania could cause a massive swell of discontent. While the 
'Mace' puts sting in crime fighting 
Dear Editor: 
The threat of assault on campus is becoming more and more ominous, especially to women. Among the various crimes which have been re­ported since school resumed in August, a Saint Mary's student was mugged in the well-lit 
LeMans parking lot,  and  two  
women  were  individually  ac­ 
costed in the North Quad.  

Fortunately, the ND/SMC community gives students the opportunity to protect them­selves and to stay informed. Saint Mary's students receive crime reports from campus se­curity following on-campus crimes. The "Security Beat" section of The Observer ac­counts all reported crimes of the preceding week. The shuttle and security provide rides be­tween campuses. Father Griffin and his trusty dog O'Gill and others have proposed to initiate an escort service. 
In a community ostensibly concerned for the safety of all its students, I was shocked when the Saint Mary's student government refused to grant my club permission to sell mace as a fund raiser. Both the ath­letic council and campus secu­rity condoned its sale. 
Student government claims that women will believe that the 
WlLL Tli~ LA.~T ON~ TO L~AV£ PLf"~ BLOW OUT n.u; C~DlfS? 

East German states' power to the travel ban to Simultaneously, West enforce an ideological regimen Czechoslovakia indicate that Germans are not so keen that should not be underestimated, Krenz is attempting to make the re-unification they have such a policy would not stop good on his promise that there sought for so long will actually the restlessness of the educated will be a "turnaround" in his occur any time soon. The West young. Their demands for plu­government's policies. Given German economy is Europe's ralism and the "good life" they Krenz's recent expression of strongest and richest and taken see on West German television support for the Chinese gov­as a whole, West Germany is would continue unabated. Since ernment's June crackdown, this politically very stable. In many an estimated 1.5 million East is positive news. ways, West Germany would be Germans, almost 10 percent of Krenz has also tried to con­just as content to concentrate the population, have at one vince the West, specifically on continuing the task of time applied for visas to go to West Germany, that he is fully integrating itself into the the West, the rush to leave to­in charge and willing to make European Community's single day could become a stampede the necessary reforms. In a market while remaining under tomorrow. telephone call with West the U.S. strategic umbrella. 
I<or the moment, party leader German Chancellor Helmut This is why Chancellor Kohl has Krenz appears to be opting for Kohl he expressed his view that consistently urged that East internal and external concilia­East Germany was stable and Germany reform itself. He has tion. His government recently only going through a short pe­offered millions in expanded announced a general amnesty riod of "questioning." West. German credits to help for those who have left and West Germany is not so sure. this process along. want to come back. There are What they see across the bor­However, East German events few takers. More significantly, der is extremely worrisome. might be moving too quickly for the government has agreed to There is realization that if re­partial reform. Just ask release several thousand im­forms do not occur in East Mikhail Gorvachev, who after prisoned East Germans who Germany there could be thou­loosening the heavy reins of were caught trying to leave. sands of more refugees coming party control in the U.S.S.H., 
Hepresentatives of the West. It is true that the latest now finds himself contending government have also met with group of refugees has been with the powerful force of eth­leaders of the internal welcomed. But, to some ob­nic nationalism. Clearly. reform opposition and promised that servers, severe economic and only breeds new demands. the dialogue would continue. All social dislocations could result Already, events in East this coupled with the lifting of if many more refugees arrive. Germany seem to be spinning 
LETTERS 


assuage the risks one assumes by walking and, thus, will walk when they would otherwise have received a ride. The gov­ernment also claims that mace creates a potential hazard of being misused experimentally or accidentally. 
First of all, judging by the full capacity of the shuttle bus on the most temperate, weekend evenings, it seems unlikely that by possessing mace a student will feel more inclined to walk to any distant destination, especially in the cold winter months to come. 
By the same token, students who do not ride presently (i.e. joggers, fitness walkers) will continue to do so, despite the student government's decision. These people should be pro­tected. 
Furthermore, assault is as 
cannot tread as it is where they are permitted. Although a stu­dent may ride long distances, she is still vulnerable from the car door to the front door of her house, from the parking lot to her dorm, and between buildings. The incident in the LeMans parking lot and those in the North Quad exemplify the necessity of protection, even over short distances. 
But just to make sure, all mace cans come complete with a "safety-lock" feature for those who can't keep their hands ofT the button. 
In short, I believe that provid­ing students with the opportu­nity to protect themselves would be beneficial, not detri­mental, to our safety. 
Devon Marcuson Regina Hall Oct. 30, 1989 
out of control. On Oct. 29, 20,000 East Germans attended a government sponsored rally in which harsh criticism of the government was heard. Even Marcus Wold, former head of the East German secret service and the chief nemesis of the West in John Le Carre novels, is urging-domestic reform and perhaps future merger with West Germany. Suddenly the possibility of German re­unification is being considered very seriously and could happen relatively soon if East Germany devolves further. 
The United States, Britain and France arc not particularly happy about this prospect. !\ Germany of 80 million people with an even larger economy and a huge, if non-nuclear, army could prove an outsized power in Europe. Certainly, there is strong support for the East German peoples' desire for Western freedoms. The concern is that events have moved so far, so fast and have implications so profound for the post-war world order that great thought must be given before change occurs. 
Nature abhors a vacuum and with the United States and the Soviet Union developing cordial, almost friendly relations, the fact remains that the division of Germany is beginning to look outdated. While this division has proved the most stable solution yet found on how to handle Germany, especially in light of prior German aggres­sion in this century, it may be untenable. 
Krenz should be extended good luck if he sincerely at­tempts to reform East Germany. Let no one be fooled though. The real issue is not so much what happens to East Germany per se. The real issue is how to answer the "German" question. Once again that cat is out of the bag. 
Joseph Novak is a second year law student. 
Security must tighten in parking· lots 
Dear Editor: 
Over the last three weeks, have empathized with victims of on and off-campus assaults. and with people rightfully frightened that they will be vic­timized in the future. In articles and letters to The Observer, they have called for and helped foster increased student awareness of such crimes, so that students might do all they can to avoid them. 
Despite all personal precau­tions, one cannot be completely self-sufficient in crime preven­tion. One needs external assis­tance. The improved lighting in parking lots and the escort service are both reasonable student suggestions, imple­mented to meet security needs. 
However, another campus crime, vandalism in student parking lots, has yet to be remedied, and, according to the security guard with whom I spoke, it happens year after year with ridiculous regularity. Two hours after I parked my car in the 02 lot at 9 p.m.-di­rectly under one of the bright lights-it was vandalized There 
was  a  fist  sized  hole  in  one  
window  and  the  stereo  was  
missing.  

Those damages should never have been incurred, had there been adequate patrolling of the parking lots. The security guard told me he patrols the lot 
in his car frequently, with mall 
spotlight It seems quite obvious 
that this mode of patrolling 
cannot do anything but uncover 
such acts of vandalism after 
the fact. A potential thief simply 
is too well forewarned by a 
motor and moving headlights; 
he has plenty of time to nee or 
hide. 
It seems that the only effec­tive deterrents of car vandalism would be either constant pa­trolling by car or the construc­tion of additional security sta­tions in parking lots. Ideally, such stations would be elevated and equipped with surveillance systems. But, for the practical 
short run, the mere constant presence of guards in the lots could discourage vandalism and theft. 
Perhaps there are other solu­tions. It is time for active dis­cussion among students,and in the administration to search for those solutions. We can prevent future crimes and victimization through reasonable security measures now. I believe that students who pay to park their cars in Notre Dame parking lots have a right to expect security there. It is time for Notre Dame to fulfill that obligation. 
Michael Byrne 
Stanford Hall 
Oct. 17, 1989 

-----~--------­
Accent
Monday, November 6, 1989 
'PeopleNext Door'
should move off the air 
A 
!though 
many won't admit it, 
most Americans have, at one time or another, spied 

on_ their next d.oor JOE BUCQLQ 
nmghbors. CBS offers a glimpse To be continued ... of those crazy "wackos" who share the property line in its new sitcom "The People Next Door." 
Popping onto screens at 8:30 p.m. on Mondays, "The People Next Door" stars Jeffrey Jones as Walter Kellogg, a car­toonist responsible for a "Far Side" type comic strip. Walter has two children, Matthew (Chance Quinn) and Aurora (Jaclyn Bernstein), and a new wife, Abi­gail (Mary Gross). To this point, the show seems believable; however, pro­ducers add the insanity next. Walter has a weird psychic power: he can make things appear or come to life just by imagining they do so. And they say there's nothing good on television .... 
This strange psycho power, of course, brings more characters into play. Mr. Id is Walter's "evil half." A small man in a trench coat, Id, advises Walter to "do the wrong thing." Another small char­acter lives in Walter's answering machine. Some celebrities even pop into Walter's house as he imagines them. Steve Allen and Casey Kasem are just two who have appeared on the show. 
Ironically, it isn't the premise that makes this show so bad; it's everything else. The story lines and various plots are the same ones viewers have come to expect from first year sit-coms. One episode presents Walter coping with his birthday. As usual, he tells everyone not to make a fuss over the special day. Cissy (Christina Pickles), Abigail's sister, tells Walter, "Then you'lllove what I didn't get you." 
As the episode progresses, Walter decides he wants to have another child. 

ELIZABETH WHOLIHAN accent writer 
C 
ulture is a major focus on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses this year. A primary opportunity for exposure to various cultures is a trip abroad for either a semester or a year. An upcoming lecture series at Saint Mary's campus will feature the insights of stu­dents who have taken ad­vantage of the chance to be educated abroad. 
There will be several lectures over the course of the year, which will include discussions on trips to Columbia and France., but not all of the dates have been finalized. The first discussion, "Irish Eyes­American Eyes," is set for tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Sta­pleton Lounge in Saint Mary's Le Mans Hall. The panel discussion is sponsored by Saint Mary's College Foreign Affairs Commission and the History Club. The Saint Mary's sponsored trip to Ireland will be the topic of discussion. 
Five panelists will be present to discuss cultural differences, education, politics, and daily life as they experienced it for a year in Ireland. The evening could hold some interesting dis­cussions since two points of 
Above: Walter Kellogg (Jefferey Jones) dances with his wife (Mary Gross) to music played by Henny Youngman.Below: 'The 
In an absurd scene, he imagines what it would be like to be pregnant. Immedi­ately his abdomen enlarges, and he puts his hands behind his waist for support. Matthew enters the room saying, "Don't you believe in birth control?" Many may want to ask the same question of the writer who gave birth to this show. 
Those who seek out Abigail for coun­seling should be referred to Dr. Seaver on "Growing Pains." Abby explains to Aurora that sometimes people say the exact opposite of what they mean. That's why she's throwing a party for Walter; however, after she discovers Walter really doesn't want a party, Abi­gail reconsiders. Aurora questions Abby's change of mind and receives the reply, "I was wrong. Stop living in the past." 
The performances on the show are terrible. Jeffrey Jones, who performed quite well in "Ferris Bueller" and "Beetlejuice," seems ill-at-ease before TV cameras. His delivery is ineffective, and his gestures seem forced. Mary Gross' performance makes Jones seem like Emmy material. She speaks too slowly. A soap opera character could go in and out of a coma in the time it takes Gross to complete a sentence. Also, her portrayal of Abby seems more of a 
mockery than a realistic one. Maybe someone should tell her she's not on 
"Saturday Night Live" anymore. 
And who names their child Aurora? Of course, the princess in "Sleeping Beauty" had the name Aurora. Are the producers trying to say something? One thing's for sure: it takes more than a kiss to wake viewers of this show. CBS just may have discovered the cure for insomnia. 
Finally, the imaginary characters are crass and cruel. The funny little people in "Willow" won over their audience with cute comments and genuinely funny actions and dialogues. These characters are underdeveloped rip-offs. 
"The People Next Door" is definitely one of this season's worst creations. Poor performances and dismal dia­logue, plague this program. CBS exec­utives should have made a show about the people next door to "The People Next Door." 


Students gain insightafter studying in Ireland 
SMC Lecture 

"The Irish have a radically different Series: perception of America, their own Irish culture, and education than Americans Irish Eyes would suspect." American Eyes 
view will be presented; that of ences. He says he finds the cul­a Catholic school.. .it's because American students and that of tural and educational differ­we're American. Americans native Irish who are studying ences very interesting. "The don't understand alcohol." here. Irish have a radically different In Ireland on the other hand, For instance, senior Jim perception of America, their the social life centers around McCarthy, a government major own Irish culture, and edu­conversation and friendship, at Notre Dame, found several cation than Americans would and alcohol is just a part of a 
great cultural differences be­suspect. People who never go larger cultural context. The tween the Americans and Irish abroad are unaware of the Irish have a "much more open in attitudes about education other viewpoints ... that's the minded and mature attitude 
and alcohol. Ulick Stafford, a most interesting part of the toward drinking." From the native of Ireland studying trip." Irish perspective, Stafford chemical engineering as a The topic of alcohol, as it re­agrees with these points stat­graduate student at Notre lates to the social aspect of cul­ing, "People start drinking Dame, finds "no massive cul­ture truly differs from the before the age of eighteen, but tural differences" between the American viewpoint, according it's not an issue. They drink at two countries, though he ad­to McCarthy. "It pertains to a young age, but they're drink­mits some do exist. Notre Dame especially because ing as mature adults...lt may 
From an American's per­students here have such a not be the healthiest thing in spective, McCarthy has much twisted view of alcohol. Our the world, but there is greater praise for the Irish experience school isn't promoting a mature public and social acceptance of and appreciates the differ-attitude. It's not because we're it [alcohol]." 
Education also drew great attention from McCarthy. Ac­cording to him, less pressure is placed on the college students in Ireland. He believes they may actually learn a little more than college students in the United States. In explanation of this, Stafford commented, "There is higher pressure on high school students, so they ease up a little in college." Regarding whether or not Irish students learn more, Stafford noted that in Ireland more material is covered, but per­haps not as thoroughly and this gives each student an opportunity to focus on subjects of interest. 
Stafford and McCarthy both have much to say about life in Ireland and with an additional 
;three panelists, the discussion could become, as McCarthy said, "pretty lively." Hopefully discussion about cultural dif­ferences from a student's per­spective will create interest in the various study-abroad pro­grams. The purpose of fostering cul­tural awareness for education's sake is just as important. Questions from those who at­tend are welcome and will make up a good part of the dis­cussion. As McCarthy said, "The Ireland program is one of Saint Mary's best kept secrets." 

page 12 The Observer Monday, November 6, 1989 
Merriweather's safety in OT keys Vikings' win over Rams 
Associated Press Angeles has lost four straight Minnesota's 34-yard line to the to Henry Ellard with 7:20 left York Jets beat New England games after opening with five Rams' 23. and Greg Bell's a 2-yard touch­27-26, Houston beat Detroit Never, in 16 years of over­straight victories. "I've played this game long down run with 28 seconds re­35-31, Cleveland beat Tampatime, had a game ended with a Karlis' 40-yard field goal enough that I know I just gotta maining. Bay 42-31, Miami beat safety. with eight seconds left in regu­do the job," said Karlis, who "This was unbelievable," Indianapolis 19-13 and Kansas Until Sunday. lation tied the game and also kicked field goals of 20, Everett said. "I hope we can City beat Seattle 20-10, the Los Minnesota's Mike equaled Jim Bakken's 22-year­24, 22, 25, 29 and 36 yards. keep the will to win. It's so Angeles Raiders beat Cincinnati Merriweather blocked Dale old NFL record of seven in a "I've hit uprights. I've missed emotionally frustrating. You 28-7, the New York Giants beat Hatcher's punt 2:14 into over­game. The kick, just 20 seconds with games on the line. There's think you've got it and all of a Phoenix 20-13, San Diego beat time for a safety after Rich after Los Angeles went ahead nothing immortal about me." sudden, it evaporates." Philadelphia 20-17 and Denver 
Karlis had kicked seven field 21-18, was set up by Wade Minnesota (6-3) Jed 18-7 be­In other games, Green Bay beat Pittsburgh 34-7. Dallas goals as the Vikings beat the Wilson's 43-yard desperation fore Jim Everett's 6-yard, beat Chicago 14-13, Atlanta was at Washington for a night Los Angeles Rams 23-21. Los pass to Hassan Jones from fourth-down touchdown pass beat Buffalo 30-28, the New game. 
------------------------------------------~~~
The Observer accepts classrfreds every busmess day from 10 a 111 to 3 30 p rn ;1t tht: Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from t2.30 to 3 p.m at t11e Sarnt Marys offrce Haggar College Center Deadlrne for next-day classrfreds rs 3 p m All classrfreds musl be 
prepard The charge rs 2 cents per character per day. rncludrng spaces

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 
WORDPROCESSING 
272-8827 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 
WORD PROCESSING 
272-8827 
ADOPTION: Happily married white couple wishes to share love and security with newborn. We are both architects and will provide joyful and creative home. Expenses paid. Legal. Call Margaret and Jerry collect 718­858-6250 evenings and weekends. 
Big 4 Classic 
Decermer2 Sponsored by Soph. Class Tix and Transportation $35 Available in Soph. Class Office throuah 11/J 5 
ATIENTION MAC USERS 
MADMACS MEETING 
TUESDAY, NOV 7 7:00PM ROOM 300. COMP-MATH BLDG 
DOOR PRIZES 
ATIENTION MAC USERS 
MADMACS MEETING 
TUESDAY, NOV 7 7:00PM ROOM 300 COMP MATH BLDG 
PUBLIC DOMAIN DISKS CHEAP 
ATIENTION MAC USERS 
MADMACS MEETING 
TUESDAY, NOV 7 7:00PM ROOM 300, COMP MATH BLDG 
CHEAP SONY DISKS 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 
287-4082. 
ATIENTION MAC USERS 
MADMACS MEETING 
TUESDAY, NOV 7 7:00PM ROOM 300 COMP MATH BLDG 
MICROSOFT WORD 4.0 DEMO 
ATIENTION MAC USERS 
MADMACS MEETING 
TUESDAY, NOV7 7:00PM ROOM 300 COMP MATH BLDG 
MAC PORTABLE REVEALED 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: A black Columbia ski jacket the week of the USC game. If you've seen it, please call Kelly Olinger at 277-2944. 
Help! I lost my father's blue coat at 
the sophmore formal at SMC in 
Haggar and I need~ back. his a 
44R and has tissue in the left 
pocket If you mistakenly took rt, 
please call Chris at 288-4420. 
Lost: Last Sunday 10/15 , 1 :00 , 
S. Stepan Football Field , During a lnterHall football game Scapula with First Communion Medalion anached. If anyone knows rt's whereabouts, Please calf John Carlin at 1178, Serious sentamental value, "Cabbage" will be paid 1111!!11111 
LOST: Ladies CORVAIR BIKE. White wrth blue trim, BIG basket on the front ... Great sentimental value. Any info-no questions asked!­call Bridget at 283-2457. 
I LOST MY CAMERA ON GREEN FIELD DURING THE PITI GAME. I WOULD REALLY LIKE IT BACK AS IT HAS GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL MONICA AT 27641F YOU KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT IT. NO MEMORIES FOR ME WITHOUT ITII 
Found a camera near the library the week before fall break. Call x 1593 and ask for David. 
WANTED 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000/YEAR POTENTIAL. DETAILS. (1) 602­838-8885 EXT. BK 6262 
GOVERNMENT JOBS! NOW HIRING IN YOUR AREA BOTH SKILLED AND UNSKILLED. FOR A CURRENT LIST OF JOBS AND APPLICATION, CALL 1-615-383­2627 EXT. P306. 
WANT TO PARTY? FREE TRIPS, CASH, INTENSIVE FUNII Student sun/ski tour operator seeks fun-loving campus representatives. Call HI-LIFE 1-800-263-5604. 
RIDE NEEDED to southwest Virginia/ Roanoke Area for Thanksgiving. Call Tom@ 2299 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, All fields. Free info. Wrrte IJC, PO BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 
RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCH. NY THANK. BK.-ANDY 3114 
FOR RENT 
BOUGHT HOUSE, NEED ROOMMATE. QUIET, NEAR CAMPUS. ROOM FURNISHED OR UNFURNISHED. MUST BE MATURE, NON-SMOKER. $200 MO + 112 UTIL. CALL 232-9952. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
FOR SALE 
80 VW VANAGON. REBUILT ENGINE. BODY EXCELLENT. VERY RELIABLE. $2000. 234­8507. 
ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES FROM $100. FORDS, MERCEDES, CORVETIES, CHEVYS. SURPLUS BUYERS GUIDE. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
FOR SALE 76 Ford Granada,73,000 m1les.need to sell ASAP Call Mukul or Claire 239-5545;287­7746. 
GO TO THE MIAMI GAMEl!! 2 PLANE TIX FOR SALE CALL CHAR ITO #4923 
1-WAY TICKET FROM SB TO DALLAS/FORT WORTH. LEAVES DEC 22.FEMALE ONLY $160.CALL LISA AT 4916. 
IBM PROPRINTER XL & IBM PC Jr. w/256K FOR SALE 
Asking $250 for printer I $300 for computer, or best offer-must sell before going abroad for spring semester. Call Christine 283·2845. 

1-way plane ticket from O'hare to LaGuardia, N.Y. Leaves Nov. 21 Call Tricia #4029 
Newt Sale! Navy & SMU stu'tix 
271-9714 
1975 EL CAMINO. RUNS GOOD. $1500 FIRM. PAT 3598. 
Red 4 door 1980 Honda Accord Call '3619 
TICKETS 

I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks. 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill 
277-3653 
You need TXTS. call277-3653 
Need two SMU tix please call 284­493011111111!1 
DESPERATELY NEED: 
GA'S FOR NAVY AND USC 
STUD FOR USC AND PITI. 
$$$$$ ABSOLUTE $$$$$ 
TOP DOLILAR PAID! 
CALL DAN x1300 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill 
277-3653 
You need TXTS. call277-3653 
I WANT TO TRADE TWO PITI GA'S FOR TWO USC GA'S. CALL AMY 283-1265. 
NEED 4 SMU GA'S 
TIM 271-8795 
'"WANTED: PENN ST & MIAMI 
TIX CALL Dennis x2002 
I NEED TWO SMU GA'S AND 
TWO SMU STUD'S! CALL 
ELAINE x4209 
BADLY NEED 4-6 PENN ST. GA'S. CALL MIKE 232-4208. 
I NEED 4 SMU GA'S. PLEASE 
CALL MARY 288-0885. 
I NEED 
NAVY/SMU GA'S 
NAVY/SMU GA'S 
JEFF 3073. 
I NEED TWO SMU TICKETS-­STUDENT OR GA--CALL COOP @4245 
SMWho? Exactly how I feel, but for some odd reason my parents want to see this game. Please sell me your SMU GA's and make my dad very happy on his birthday. Call Brigid@ 284-4101. 
I NEED 2GA'S AND 1 STUD. FOR SMU. CALLMARK@X.1722. 
I NEED 2 SMU GA'S AND 1 SMU STUD TICKET. CALL AARON AT 3314. 
HELP! I NEED NAVY STUD. AND SMU GA AND STUD. BILL X3346 Hey zers, I need 2 SMU GA's call 
Amy at 284-5532 
I need 2 SMU stud. tix in a bi,(l 
way! Mike 3501 
I need 1 SMU GA. Please call 
Brian at x1217. 
DESPARA TEL Y seeking one Stud for SMU . Please help. Dennis x 17 42 
Wanted: SMU GA's at any price! 
Kevin #1373 
favors or money from yuppie couple for SMU GA's. Please call, or I'll be up a creek. Money is no object, as they are yuppies. My name is Flo and I can make all your dreams come true. x4076. Thanks. 
WE NEED 7 SMU GA'S FOR $$$ 
SINGLES,PAIRS,ETC ARE FINE 
MARC X3375 OR DAVE X3387 
I NEED GA'S FOR SMU. CALL JOE AT 255-7770. 
*"' ..........FREE 
TICKET**••••••••• 
Your ticket to fitness is at JUST AEROBICS. Try a free co-ed workout at 4:15 on Tuesday Nov. 7 w/ Jenny. Must show ND or SMC I.D. Call259-1465forinfo. 
NEED SMU TIX: 3 GA'S & 1 STU 
CALL DAVE #1417 
I need 1-3 SMU stud tixll 
Call Chris, 233-0057. 
I NEED 2 SMU GA'S YOU NAME YOUR PRICE CALL RICK AT 289-3905 
$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$ 
HELP! I NEED 6 SMU GA's! 
Call Greg at 1653 
PLEASE!!! I NEED SMU STUDENT TICKETS!! I CALL NEIL AT x2794 
Need 2 GA's for SMU Phil 271-5691 
2 SMU GA'S FOR SALE. CALL 
DAN 714-738-3775. 
$150 FIRST 3 SMU GA'S Jim #1717 
I NEED 3 SMU ga's. Have a heart and make my linle brothers birthday. Call Jim x-3107, or Tessa 271-9895 
NEED 2 SMU GA'S AND 1 STU HAVE 2 PENN ST. WOULD LIKE TO MAKE TRADE. DOUG X2226 
TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S 312-920-9350 
2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale 272-5092 
NEED smu ga's 277-5934 
TAKE A BREAK! I'LL BUY YOUR 11-18 PENN STATE SKTS. CALL COLLECT: 609-390-0456. 
I NEED NAVY,SMU,PENN ST, & MIAMI TIXS.272-6306 
I NEED 2 SMU TICKETS, EITHER STUD OR GA CALL SEAN X4332 HELPIII NEED 2 GA'S FOR SMU 
CALL KIM AT 284-4269. THANXI 
need 3 smu ga's please call kris x2568 
Snow, Cold , Wet, Miserable. Sell me your SMU student tickets! Call John @2299! 
I NEED ONE STUDENT TICKET 
FOR SMU. CALL CHRIS X3360 
WOULD LIKE many SMU tix GAs and ST. x4352 Ted 
NEED 8 GAs FOR NAVY 
OR SMU. CALL DOYLE x1652 
Need 3 SMU G.A.'s. 
Will pay big bucks. 
X4043, ask for Mark. 
Don't need your SMU HOTEL RESERVATIONS? x3883 
Desparately need two student SMUtix. ask for Kristin, 2784 
I need 1 SMU stud. ticket. 
Call John at 2379 
$$$$$$$$$$$ MIAMI $$$$$$$$$$ I need MIAMI tix-call Jeff at 3555 $$$$$$$$$$$MIAMI$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED SMU GA'S CALL x1424 
NEED 2 SMU GA'S X4969 
NEED MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY$$$. CALL JIM HAGAN COLLECT 404­331-6039. CALL 404-351-7009 AFTER6 PM. 
Need 3 SMU GA's. Have 2 Stud. 
tick. plus cash. 
Call Jamie 272-1112 
need 2 SMU tix real bad call me 
now@ 1765 
Need one SMU GA or Student 
Ticket. Call Laura at x3887 or 
x3220. 
I PERSONALS 
ADOPTION, A LOVING ALTERNATIVE. 81 L ALUM WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT. LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT 602-482-0905. 
Need X-MAS or bar cash? University Pizza is NOW HIRING drivers and inside help. We'll work with any schedule (8-40 hrsiwk). Good pay, great people!! I Apply at 18055 St. Rd. #23 (opposite Coach's & 3 drs closer to the mall). 
NAVY AND SMU TICKETS FOR 
INNER CITY KIDS. ST. STEPHEN'S CHURCH WOULD LIKE TO GIVE KIDS A CHANCE TO SEE ND PLAY. LIKE TO DONATE A TICKET? WRITE OR CALL ED LANGLOIS, CSC AT MOREAU SEMINARY, 239-7735. 
HELP... I NEED 10+ SMU TICKETS. Please call Eric at #3543. 
MODELS NEEDED FOR BEAUTY SHOW NOV. 13TH, CENTURY CENTER. L'OREAL EXPERTS WILL HELP YOU CHOOSE THE CHIC NEW HAIRCUT, HIGHLIGHTS, COLOR OR PERM YOU DESIRE. ALL SERVICES ARE FREE "BECAUSE YOU'RE WORTH IT." MODEL CALL-THURSDAY, NOV. 9TH, 7 PM, MARRIOTI HOTEL, SOUTH BEND. 
TOP TEN QUOTES FROM FALL BREAK IN D.C. 
10. That sleep sucked. 
9. Yeah, we're all seniors 
8. To Jon our fearless leader! 
7. To Jon ... and BEER! 
6. Where are we going now? 
5. It's Joe! It's Joe!! 
4. Isn't this against du Lac? 
3. Let me tell you something, being a nun is a really weird thing. 
2. I always think with my eyes closed. 
1. h was just TOO HOT!!I!III! 
Actors/Actresses needed for a student produced film. Contact Tom Howley,#1430. 
SPEND 8 WEEKS IN SPAIN, SPRING 1990. SHARE AMERICAN CULTURE WITH TEACHERS & STUDENTS.CONTACTINrL INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS, 1-800­869-7056 FOR DETAILS. 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 
HiAg! 
RE:CYCLIN' IRISH meeting Mon. Nov. 6@ 6pm in Montgomery Theatre (LaFortune)-Everyonell 
Bo may not know Diddley, but do you know BILLIARDS? Sign up for the 8-Ball Tourney in the Games floom in LaFortune today! 
I need someone give me a ride to go to New York city during Thanksgiving break, will share $$! 
Call Leo 1143. 
STUDY IN JAPAN TH1S SUMMER. LEARN ABOUT JAPANESE CULTURE, BUSINESS & SOCIETY. LIVE WITH A HOST FAMILY. OTHER SPECIAL FEATURES. CALL INT'L INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS, 1-800­869-7056, FOR DETAILS. 
61t copies 61t copies 61t copies THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune is open late for your convenience! 6¢ copies 6¢ copies 6¢ copies OVERHEAD TRANSPARENCIES Phone # 239-8138 FAX# (219) 239-8139 
Top PHILLY CREW Quotes: -The Dry White Season (Karen's prediction of her winter) -It's not how you row, it's how you LOOK -Puddin' pants -JUST DO IT -Show 'em what your made of! -Whitman's hot mix -Celebration -crew: the most sexually frustrated team -90% of all backrubs lead to something sexual-sorry Cesar! -Staph: "Pat me on the back hard­NOW!" -"Ride 'em cowboy" -Gerry's gening some Iovin' -Karen: "I feel so close to the trailer now..l" -Where's Cesar? He must be changing his pants. 
~-----­ ----------~-------­-~-··­---~-----------------.  
The Observ er  page 13  
Notre  Dame  wrestling  team  won  SPORTS the  BRIEFS Off-campus students interested in playing  


Monday, November 6, 1989 
Hoops scrimmage ends in tie 
Michigan State Invitational Sunday with on the basketball or hockey teams should 102,50 points. Michigan State took second contact John Koch at 271-8309. Deadline for with 73.75 points. Individual champions for registration is Wednesday, Nov. 8. Notre Dame were Andy Radenbaugh at 118, Marcus Gowens at 126, Pat Boyd at 142 and Taekwondo Club members who wish to Mark Gerardi at 167. Complete details of the purchase sweatshirts should be at practice meet will appear in Tuesday's Observer. Tuesday. Signups will be held for the annual 
NATKDA tourney and the awards banquet. 
Rowing Club will meet at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday in 104 O'Shag to collect money and Novice women's crew team will meet at 8 discuss the next race. p.m. tonight in 123 Nieuwland. Call 271-9130 
for more information. 

By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
It was fitting that no one won the men's basketball intrasquad scrimmage Sunday night at the Joyce ACC. 
In a game in which both teams traded players at will, the Green tied the White 73-73 in a 30-minute session before 1,310 pre-season fans. 
"I think it was good for them and Scott Paddock 10 each. 
Fredrick, a co-captain along with Jackson, left the game un­der his own power with 11:30 to play with a lower back in­jury. It did not appear to be se­vere. 
The white team starters­Fredrick, Jackson, Singleton, Robinson and Paddock-opened up a 27-20 lead before Phelps began switching the members of each team. 

to go 30 minutes at that pace," The lead grew to 47-33 be­Ricky, and they liked what they ondary, so you'd better run 
Notre Dame coach Digger fore the Green team began to Ricky saw as much as Navy didn't like hard.' 
Phelps said. mount a comeback. The Green it. "There was awesome block­Both teams pressed for 20 eventually took a 73-69 lead on continued from page 20 "He's running much harder, ing. It was like the Red Sea," minutes and then fell back into a hoop by Robinson, but going more north and south Watters continued, speaking a zone for the remainder of the Bennett and Williams hit to tie out that Watters dances and stopping the shake and about the 48 yard touchdown contest. the game at 73-73. around on the football field but bake, which he can do well, but run. "I can't even make my LaPhonso Ellis, who is aca­The Irish will host Israel that he doesn't get the gains he's also added a physical part arms as wide as that hole was." that the Irish need. to his game," noted tight end This time last year, Watters
demically ineligible until at Friday night at the Joyce ACC> 
least the conclusion of this ••• For one game at least, Derek Brown. was running patterns instead semester, led all scorers with Women's Game -The White Watters put that talk to rest. The formula for Watters' of driving through the holes "Coach Holtz, before the Air first half performance was one that the offensive line made. In
21 points for the Green team. defeated the Blue 44-32 in the 
He was the only player who annual intrasquad scrimmage Force game, issued a little part Watters and one part the 1988, the Irish were blessed 
participated with just one team. Sunday night. challenge to me," Watters efforts of the offensive line. The with a wealth of running backs, Every player scored at least Junior guard Karen Robinson stated. "He said I wasn't having holes that the line created but with the graduation of su­nine points. Keith Robinson fin­led the White with 14 points, a bad year, but I wasn't having meant that Watters was getting perstar Mark Green, now with ished with 18 points followed while Margaret Nowlin added the kind of year he thought I'd tackled by the Navy secondary, the Chicago Bears, Holtz by Elmer Bennett with 16, 10 points and six rebounds. have. Since then I've been run­not the linebackers, and needed a tailback, and he freshman Monty Williams with Lisa Kuhns led the Blue team ning harder. I've been going Watters gave the line credit. tabbed Watters for the job. 15 and Keith Tower with 14. with 11 points. down hill --no more east west "They're awesome," he said. Since then, Watters has rolled 
or herky jerky stuff." "They told me before the first up impressive numbers as a
Daimon Sweet tallied 12 The Irish will host Bulgaria 
points, Joe Fredrick 11 and Saturday afternoon at 4:30 Holtz and the rest of his play-they knew I'd get the call tailback, with a season total of p.m.
Keith Adkins, Tim Singleton teammates noticed the new -they said, 'you'll be in the sec-428 yards on 78 carries going into the Navy game. He hasn't given up on his receiving skills either, with eight catches for 133 yards. And in his spare time, he still manages to return punts for the Irish. 
Fortunately for Navy, Watters didn't see much action in the second half. He did enough damage in the first half, so he could watch from the sidelines as the Irish rolled to their 21st consecutive win, the longest current winning streak in college football. 
"Right now we're playing with a lot of togetherness and a lot of love," Watters said "Most of our success is due to that. It is not like you are doing it for yourself out there, you are thinking of the team and espe­cially the seniors." 


Smith Corona presents three products that can you can have the convenience of word processing help make schoolwork academic. features with the simplicity of a typewriter. The Smith Corona PWP 2000 Personal Word Of course, the pocket-size Spell-Right'" 300P Processor is in a class by itself. It's so compact it can also comes with impeccable references. In this 
London $215.00 Paris $225.00 

fit in the most compact dorm room.Yet, thanks to case, a built-in electronic dictionary, a thesaurus, 
Madrid $235.00 Rome $275.00

features like a built-in disk drive, 100,000 character a calculator, even a collection of challenging 
Frankfurt $225.00 

DataDisk capacity, and a crystal clear display, it word games. 
Scheduled carriers! Book anytime! Fares 1/2 RT from Chicago. Some

makes it easy to transform B's into Ns. So if you're thinking Magna Cum Laude at 
restrictions apply. lnt'l Teacher I.D.;

For those who prefer an electronic typewriter, the end of this year, 
hostel passes; overseas foreign language refresher courses tor

the Smith Corona XD 4600 is the typewriter of don't forget to think SMITI-1 . preference. With its 16 character display and ap­Smith Corona at the CQRQNI'.: 



TOMORRON'STECHNOLOGY proximately 7,000 characters of editable memory, beginning of this year. ATYOURTOUCH'" 
For more information on these products, wnte to Smith Corona Corporation, 65 Locust Avenue, New Canaan, CT 06840 or Smith Corona Canada, 440 Tapscott Road. Scarborough, Ontario, Canada M!B !Y4. 
Join The Observer 
N.D./MIAMI
GAME 
NOV. 24-26, 1989 
ssgg~~ ~gerton's 2~30 McK'lr:-~.:.~7 1-800-552-2811 (IND.) 1-100-643-44104 (U.S.A.) 

page 14 
The Observer Monday, November 6, 1989 

Irish lax falls to Washington College despite valiant effort 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
"Challenging Tradition" has become the catch phrase of the Notre Dame lacrosse squad since Kevin Corrigan became coach a year ago. Friday they did just that, making an im­pressive run at Washington College before bowing 14-11 to the Shoremen in an exhibition match held at the Loftus All­Sports Center. 
Playing in the second annual "Fall Lacrosse Classic," the Irish posed a surprising chal­lenge to their traditionally dominant Division Ill opponent. Washington College annually contends for the NCAA divi­sional title and is recognized for its tradition of winning. Friday the Shoremen had trou­ble keeping the Irish under con­trol, and they were forced to goals while sophomore Mike Sullivan netted one score and assisted on three of McHugh's goals. Senior co-captain Mike Quigley contributed two second­half goals and an assist from his midfield position while sophomore middie Chris Nelson chipped in two scores. Sophomore goalie Tom Duane came up with four saves for the Irish in the first half while freshman Chris Parent had nine stops in the second half. 
stave  off several  Irish  rallies  
throughout the game.  
Senior  attackman  Brian  

The Irish intensity was not indicative of their past play against the nation's elite teams. Last season Washington College took Ohio Wesleyan to overtime before bowing to the Division III powerhouse. That same Ohio Wesleyan squad de­feated the Irish 18-5 last spring. Obviously, things have changed for the better as far as Notre Dame is concerned. 
"In the past, when we played against a very good team, if they got a couple of goals we 
McHugh led the Irish with five tended to let down and lose our 
"HilARIOUSI ONE OF THE WILDEST,WEIRDEST PICK-ME-UPS OF THE YEARI''-PEOPLE, Perer Travers "Brilliant! A triumph! Provocative, dizzying, satisfying and, above all, tremendous fun!" .... 
-N.Y. DAILY NEWS MAGAZINE. 
Susin Shapiro 
DISTRIBL'TED BY WARNER BROS. A \l'Aitt.:H nU.tMU..:IC ATill~S t"ll~trA"'' @ C>I'M6 W~r Brot. In<. All R11hu RnotrvH
ffi 
Cinema at the Snite 

TONIGHT 7:00 
concentration," said Corrigan. "But this time we had people out there with the attitude that they were not going to let the game get away from them." 
"I was certainly happy with the way we played and the competitiveness we showed throughout the game," he said. "We didn't back down in one instance." 
McHugh, a three-year starter and one of Notre Dame's all­time leading scorers, worked especially well with Sullivan on the Irish attack. The first three Irish goals were the result of some crisp passing by the Irish, with Sullivan feeding McHugh for all three scores. Sullivan later came up with a score of his own at the start of the sec­ond half. 
The Irish needed the fire­power from McHugh and Sullivan from the opening whis­tle. Washington College jumped out to a quick lead over their hosts, with two goals in the first 1:34. What had the poten­tial to be a rout by the Shoremen turned into a chase, with the Irish nipping at the Shoremen's heels until the final gun. 
Just as quickly as the Shoremen had scored, the Irish struck back. Breaking down­field, the Irish worked the ball around the cage before Sullivan found McHugh on the right side of the crease. McHugh then beat Shoremen goalie David Slomkowski for what would be only one of his four first half goals. 
Four minutes later McHugh tied the game at two, but that was as close as the Irish would get. Several times Washington College seemed to be pulling away, only to see the Irish come back. Three straight goals by the Shoremen in the third quar­ter put them up 11-7 and the Irish never threatened again, trading goals with Washington College for the remainder of the contest and settling for the knowledge that they gave their hAst. 
People needed to compile Board of Trustees Report on the role of women at the University of Notre Dame to be presented in May. 
Call Amy Weber at 283-1315 or submit your name to the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune Student Center. 


During this month of prayers for our deceased the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry and the Institute for International Peace Studies encourage your viewing of the film ROMERO. 
It will be shown at UNIVERSITY PARK EAST CINEMA 
... ­
beginning November 10, 1989. 



··~ 
For more Information call (219) 277-7336 
,~--­
10 P.P.·t .fl 1<1rlmsvoi.., .vdm0M · '"·'·~ ··"'rlr' '" ~T Monday, NovemberS, 1989 The Observer page 15 
' 

Blinded by Science? 

Documentation Frustration Configuration 

® 


Jubilation 

Drawing, graphing, and calculating can frustrate any scientist. Avoid frustration with the versatility of the Macintosh computer. Programs like Excel~ChemDraw~and Superpoint®make the Mac apowerful scientific tool. Make the Mac work for you. 


Mac is what you make it 

The Observer Monday, November6, 1989

page 16 
Opportunities at First Boston Investment Banking First Boston, a special bracket investment banking firm, headquartered in New York, will be recruiting for its financial analyst program. Positions are available in the Investment Banking, Mergers and Acquisitions, Real Estate and Public Finance Departments. All Seniors are cordially invited to attend a. presentation. Presentation: Thesday, November 7, 1989 Alumni Room-Morris Inn 7-9 p.m. On Campus Interviews: February 5, 1990 -­--­--­--­-·­.. ·­For further information and inquiries, please feel free to contact: ----------­-... ··­. . -~:.-..:..---J:#--Chris McCabe Investment Banking 227 W Monroe (312) 750-3071 Chicago, Illinois 60606  

CAMPUS MEDIA DISCUSSION TUESDAY NOVEMBER 7, 1989 8:00P.M. HAVES-HEALY 

PANELISTS FROM EACH MAJOR MEDIA SOURCE ON CAMPUS 
SPONSORED BY SUB 
Navy 
continued from page 20 
marching 64 yards for the seore. An 11-yard burst up the middle by Rodney Culver capped a drive that was highlighted by Haghib "Hocket" Ismail's 30­yard sideline run. 
Ismail left the game later in the lirst quarter with a groin injury. 
"They took us out of our of­fensive game plan when they scored a lot early," said Uzelac. "I don't think we necessarily played poorly, but we looked it because of the difference in the size and speed of the teams." 
Hice, who linished the game just 1-of-6 passing for 28 yards, threw an interception to David Lerch. It was Notre Dame's only offensive series in the lirst half where the Irish did not score. 
Notre Dame came baek with an 80-yard drive the next time it got the ball, as Watters ran up the middle and eluded three would-be Navy tacklers for a 48-yard touchdown spurt. Wat­ters ended the lirst half with 120 yards on six carries. 
With the entire second-team offense in the game for the last drive of the half, the Irish went 49 yards in 14 plays. A Billy Hackett 27-yard lield goal put Notre IJame ahead 24-0 at the intermission. 
"It was a very methodical game," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. "We came out not so lircd up or cxeitcd, but they just came out and played like they liked the game. I'm glad to win and am satislied today." 
Notre Dame's defense got its shutout -the third time it's held Navy seoreless this decade -by exhibiting the "bend-but-don't­break" philosophy it's talked 
about all season. Navy consis­tently moved the ball until it got the game. Rusty Setzer made within 10 yards of scoring some nice runs. Hick Mirer range, where the Irish defense threw the ball well and ran the would stiffen. team well. Dorsey Levens 
The backups on defense and showed signs of a good running offense got to see plenty of ac­back." tion Saturday, with thP starters In the linal quarter, the Notre getting to rest for much of the Dame reserves did themselves second half. The starters did proud with a pair of touch­
not mind the break, and the downs. Levens, who rushed for 
coach didn't mind the results. 45 yards on nine carries, had a 
"It was relaxing," said Rice, two-yard touchdown dive on "just getting to watch other the second play of the quarter. people play. And there was no The touchdown was set up on 
slackoff." a fumble recovery by Troy Said Holtz, "It was nice to see Ridgley after Eric Simien jarred some of the younger players in the ball away from Navy 
fullback Kwame Moultrie on the Middie 15-yard line. 
"We were all kidding each other this week about who would be the lirst freshman of the season to score a touch­down," said Levens, who hails from Syracuse, N.Y. "I didn't really consider myself as one of the guys who would do it. I just happened to be at the right place at the right time." 
The same could be said of Irish fullback Ted "Tank" Mc­Namara. The senior walkon from Dallas had a one-yard touchdown run on what, ac­cording to Notre Dame ofli­eials, was his first collegiate carry. McNamara's run closed out an 81-yard Irish drive and ended the scoring at 41-0 with 
4:40 left in the contest. 
"(Holtz) sent me in with the play, so I knew I'd get the ball," said McNamara, crowded by reporters after the game. "I was scared to death. lie told me to hang on to the ball and sent me in. This is probably one of the greatest moments of my life." 


IMonday,November6, 1989 The Observer page 17 
Men, women swimmers take first at Notre Dame Relays 

WithMacintosh 
unnlllllllllllllllllllllllnmuuuuumuuuuuumuuuuuuuuunulnnuuuuuuuunnlnnuuunmlnnunnnlnnumumlnuu~uumumununuu~uumuuunun~unmumnunnuuumnrnuuunun~uumuuunuununnmnrnl~ 
IIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIHIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIH 
youcan 
evendo this: 
New Open ... Close 
Quit ~Q 


By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The men's and women's swimming teams got tough last Friday to take back the victory at the Notre Dame Relays. 
The Irish lost their own meet last year, and they were deter­mined to recapture the title this season. This year, they didn't just win the Relays at Rolfs Aquatic Center-they set sev­eral meet records in the pro­cess. 
The women's team tallied 214 points and defeated their clos­est opponent, University of Illinois-Chicago, by 30 points. Butler and Saint Mary's tied for third in the six team field with 132 points each. 
The Irish came in second in the first relay of the meet, the 200 yard freestyle, but they roared back with a record set­ting performance in the 400 yard medley. Shan Stephens, Becky Wood, Tanya Williams and Kim Steel combined to fin­ish with a time of 4:08 to set a new meet record. 
The Notre Dame women fin­ished behind Illinois in each event until the 500 yard crescendo relay, the fifth race on the program, but then placed first in the next four re­lays to catch up to UIC. It con­tinued to be a close race to the end. 
The Irish won one more swimming event than UIC and both of the diving events to seal the victory. 

"We were very pleased to ac­complish our goals," said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "We swam sharp and aggressively." 
The women's team also set records in the 400 yard butter­fly (4:16), the 400 yard breast­stroke (4:45) and the 1000 yard freestyle (10:34). 
Saint Mary's never finished higher than third in any event but managed to hold on to third place. The Belles' finish marks an improvement over last year, when they placed fourth with 112 points. 
The Notre Dame men's team won the first event on the pro­gram and went on to beat out a surprising Wabash squad, 216­176. North Central placed third, while usual rival UIC was a disappointing fourth out of the seven team line-up in the 25th annual Relays. 
The Irish were inconsistent at first, finishing second in the second event and, after winning the 800 yard freestyle, placing third in the 400 yard I.M. Relay. But the team went on to win six of the next eight relays to win. 
The Relays are especially im­portant in the Irish script be­cause the dual meet competi­tions begin this week. Welsh hoped that the Relays would indicate how far both teams have come, and he was not dis­appointed with the results. 
"All the signs of progress are in the right place," he stated. 
"It was an encouraging sign for how hard people are working, and it gives us a spirit of healthy competition." 
Welsh was pleased with the efforts of the younger members of the squads, as freshmen con­tributed in 18 of 26 events. He also noted that the seniors added leadership. 
"(Captain) Tom Penn had an outstanding day, and (captain) Mary Acampora was part of a key transition that turned the meet around," Welsh said. "It's neat when the seniors do that." 
The next competition for both Irish teams will be a dual meet at Bowling Green this Friday. 
34 on Friday and 63-31 on Saturday. But the Irish offen­sive display was not the only

Hockey 
continued from page 20 
thing which pleased Notre the Holy Cross goaltenders, Dame coach Ric Schafer. outshooting the Crusaders 54-"It's great that we've won 
r---------------------,
FREE 
SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS WHO NEED 
MONEY FOR COLLEGE 
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of Financial Aid Regardless of G.-ades or Parental Income. 
• 
We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fellowships, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion in private sector funding. 

• 
Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. 

• 
There's money available for students who have been newspaper car­riers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ...etc. 

• 
Results GUARANTEED. 


CALL For A Free Brochure • 
.-J 

ANYTIME (800) 346·6401 tiJ 
L-------------------~-~ 
Macintosh"computers have always been easy to use. But they've never been this easy to own. 
Presenting The Macintosh Sale. 
ThroughJanuary 31, you can save hundreds ofdollars on avariety ofApple" Macintosh computers and peripherals. 
So now there's no reason to settle for an ordinary PC.With The 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Math/Computing Center 239-7477 
three out of four (thus far this The people off the puck have to season)," says Schafer, "But do their jobs, too." more importantly, it's good to The Irish still suffered from a see that at times we can play couple of defensive lapses and sound hockey, which means gave up six goals in two games more than just scoring goals. to a very weak Holy Cross 
------11111111!!~
Bill got quite a thrill when he had the shoe to fill but his thrill as you can see was done illegally so now it's time for fun 'cause he's turning 211 Happy Birthday Bill Rudnick! 
We love you­Melissa, Sue, Kristin &Jen 
Macintosh Sale, you can wind up with much more ofacomputer. 
Without spending alot more money 

squad. Schafer vows to con­tinue working on this phase of the game. 
"Win or lose, we edit game film," he says, "We show high­lights and lowlights of each game, and we take a look at what happened every time the other team scores." 
Schafer hopes that the high­lights will continue to feature Bankoske and Keuhl. 
"We'll need their scoring prowess," he says. "Especially in the two weeks to come when we play Dearborn and St. Cloud. This weekend was a re­ally good example of how they can pounce on their oppo­nents." 
The Irish will meet Michigan­Dearborn at 8:30 Friday night at the JACC, and then will travel to Dearborn on Saturday night for the second game of the home-and-home series. 

© 1989 Apple Computer; f11c. Apple, the Apple logo, a11d .1/acilllosb are registered trademarks ofApple Computer; l11c. 


page 18 The Observer Monday, November 6, 19B:l 
Irish volleyball drops 2 out of 3 weekend matches at home 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH 
Sports Writer 
The sun did not shine too brightly for the Notre Dame Volleyball team this weekend as they hosted the second annual Golden Dome Classic on Friday and Saturday and then battled the perennial volleyball power­house from Kentucky on Sunday. 
Although the Irish pounded Rhode Island in their opening game in the Classic, they lost in the finals to a very impressive Iowa squad, and then lost a heartbreaker against Kentucky on Sunday. 
On Friday, Notre Dame took on an upbeat program from Hhode Island and soundly crushed them by a score of 15­7, 5-15, 15-4, 15-9 in just over an hour. After a disappointing second game, the Irish never looked back, as freshmen Jessica Fiebelkorn and Alicia Turner recorded 13 and 12 kills respectively. Senior captain Kathy Cunningham also con­tributed 10 kills and a game high eight total blocks. Sophomore Christine Choquette led the Irish with 11 digs. 
The Rams were led by their jump serving middle blocker Michelle Drerup, who nailed 10 kills, while Irish setter Taryn Collins had a game high three service aces along with numer­ous sets that foiled the Ram blockers. 
The victory for the Irish cou­pled with an Iowa win over Southwest Texas State set up the Irish-Hawkeye final on Saturday night. It was at this point where things took a nose dive for the hosts. 
Iowa could do no wrong in the first game as they were all over the Irish 15-6. The second game was a totally different story as Notre Dame domi­nated both physically and emo-
r-----------------------~------~ 
From thosG who know aurnd love you ~~n Wyomi~ng, 
Texas, 

Ca~ifomia, and 
Utah 


.. TAKE FLIGHT IN
B'! 
TODAY'S AIR 
• FORCE. 

~ Acc."pt the uiUmate 
career cnallenge as an Air 

Force pilot or navigator. If you are a college gra,fuate and you qualify for Officer Training School, you can receive: 
• 
great pay 

• 
full medical and dental care 


year • opportunities to advance 
Find out if you Ql! tlify for a career in flight in the Ail "'orce. Call OFFICER PR' ~GRAMS 
1-800-423·USAF 
TOll.. FREE 

CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* 
(CBS) 


"... there are all sorts ofservice robe done, 
bur always co tire same Lord; working in all 
sorts of diffuent ways in different people

(?MPUS I Cor. 12.· 4,5 
MINISTRY 
JOIN US AS WF. CONTINUE INTO THE SECOND SEMESTER 
II sturle11ts invited to ntte•ttl 011c Hour Sessions Ecullle11icnl Bible Stllrf!J Briug your own I.Jii.Jlc 
Every Tuesdny -7:00 p.m. Office of Cnmpus Mi11istry Co11fcre11cc Room-Bndi11 Hnll 
Directed IJy: Rev. AI D'AIOIIZO, esc For ndditioun 1 iuforuur tiou ca11:.239-5955 
·, 239-5?42 
~·-:: •f.:; ·.· 
.I 
tionally. Aided by a season­high attendance mark, the en­thusiasm in the second game surpassed anything the Irish have experienced this year. 
Sporting a new back row at­tack, the Irish were led by Turner and Fiebelkorn. This new twist in the game plan en­abled Notre Dame to jump out to an early lead which lasted for both the second and third games. The Irish dominated the two games 15-9, 15-6. 
Then the hammer fell on the high spirited Notre Dame squad. The hammer was Iowa hitter Karie Hamel, who blasted a match total 19 kills, most of which were in the last two games. The Hawkeyes ended the Irish championship hopes in the fourth and fifth games, winning them both 15­6. 
Turner recorded a game high 20 kills from the outside hitter position along with a modest 12 digs. Fiebelkorn spanked 16 kills against Iowa and 29 kills for the tournament. Junior sparkplug Tracy Shelton con­tributed 10 kills in the losing cause. Once again, Cunningham dominated the net for the Irish blocking six Hawkeye balls to the ground and also grabbing 
17 digs. 
Cunningham and Collins, the only seniors on the Irish squad, both received all-tournament honors as voted by the coaches. Collins provided 93 assists for Notre Dame hitters in the weekend tournament. 
On Sunday, the victory cigar was just out of reach again for Notre Dame as they hosted vol­leyball power Kentucky. Heartbreak has seemed to be the worst medicine for the Irish throughout the last couple of weeks. They lost 15-12, 13-15, 15-7, 15-13. 
Although the first game was very close. Trish roach Art Lambert made some critical line-up changes in an attempt to revive his team. lie inserted sophomore Jennifer Slosar and Junior Colleen Wagner to try and spark the emotionally drained Irish. 
Using this new baek row at­tack, Lambert directed most of his sets to Fiebelkorn and Slosar. Both of them recorded 16 kills, most of which were from the back row. Cunningham also continued her improved play by slicing 10 kills by the Wildcat blockers. 
Kentucky was led by their usual workhorse, Stephanie Green who had a game high 19 kills. 
Notre Dame's third loss in four matches dropped their record to 11-14, while Kentucky won their 20th game against only 8 losses. The Irish will look to bounce back against Northwestern on Wednesday in Evanston. 
STERLING SILVER JEWELRY AND WOOL SWEATER SALE 
10 A.M. 5 p . Ivl • NOVEMBER 6 10 


Monday,November6, 1989 The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 "-, see how 50 Tricycle, for short they runl" 51 " . I am whatMonday, November 6 1 Seashore 30 Fish eggs -":I Cor. 
6 Warble 
31 Farm wagon 15:10 

4:15p.m. in Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Lecture by Frank 10 --facto 
32 Some N.T. 52 "Rub-a-dub-dub/Luerssen, Chairman and CEO of Inland Steel, 14 Fifth-largest 

writings

"Restructuring for Global Competitiveness." Sponsored by planet 56---la-la
33 Western Indian 

the College of Business Administration, Manville 15 Coconut fiber 34 Golf club 57 New: Comb. form Executive-in-Residence Program. 16 Absorbed 58 Directs
35 Amatory 17 Use a rudder 59 A-one review 
39 Prison rooms 18 Looplike 41 Snare 61 Pull anatomical 63 Musical
43 "Moderation structure --things" composition 
19 Grow together, Terence 67 Thought
MENUS 
as broken bones 
44 Dinsmore and 68 This, in Madrid 20 Bnde's face DeWolfe 
69 At no time cover 
46 Cincinnati nine

Notre Dame Menu 70 Confined 
22 Black cuckoo 48 Cato's 102 
71 Breed Southern Fried Chicken 24 Japanese 49 Unit of elec. 72 Copy, in a way statesman current
Shepherd's Pie Mar Flank Steak Sandwich 
DOWN ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 These, in Paris 2 Cereal grain 3 "You--My Sunshine" 
M 
4 Allen or Martin 21 Rolled-steel 
36 Silent 53 Shelter 5 Magi section

A 37 Sugarcane 54 Type of code 6 Green onion 23 Incarceration disease in Hawaii 
55 Daisylike flower 

T 
7 Charged particle 25 Suspension of 38 Emulate Hillary 

56 JourneyH a Jew1sh month hostilities 40 Prevaricator 
60 Haas's "-to 9 SpanisP 26 Cesar Ritz 42 Adolescent Win" nobleman structure 

45 State trooper's 62 " .. strain­1 -.=+±-+=-~':'+.:::+.:-+=-! 1 o Annoy 27 Spins prey gnat .. "· Matt. 11 Widespread fear 28 Encourage 47 Year in the 2324
0 
12111 will papacy of 64 Grape

29 "When the frost 1 13 German -the punkin Vigil ius 65 Month after Nov. 
emperor .":Riley 52 Barter 66 Before, in poesy 



CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\.\1 SUS\£:. ~~-~~~ D\0 YOIJ BR\N<q R)R l\JNC.\-1 TODA.'i" 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

R~\.A't, 5\lS\£. II f>.l'l'tARS 1Cl BE Cl~r><R B\JTTS lf\1 ~ Gf>.U..S\Ot{E SNJC.L 
JAY HOSLER 




tarting rromorrow: 
at 
~eaturing: 
Greek Streak --Tuesday at 4:30 Sign up at 2:30 at Fieldhouse Mall Greek Olympics --Thursday Sign up with your dorm rep . 
.......... ...... ............ ..., .... :.......... ~ ..................... ': ................ ":
~ ~ 




--------------------------l
Sports

~e20 Monday, NovemberS, 1989 
Irish shut out Navy, tie consecutive win record 
• Reserves impressive in second half

~­
By STEVE MEGARGEE lost the last 2(> meetings. Associate Sports Editor "When you win, you see some things very positive in the 
Five Navy football coaches, game. When you lose, no matter six U.S. Presidents and 26 what happens, you don't really years have come and gone since get much out of it." the Midshipmen last found a Notre Dame showed on its way to defeat Notre Dame. first play from scrimmage that 
Notre Dame has played a it had just too many weapons school-record 21 consecutive for the Naval Academy, which football games without finding fell to 2-6 on the season. On a way to lose to anyone. that opening play, Watters ran 
The beat went on for both of through a giant hole up the those streaks Saturday at middle for a 43-yard gain. It Notre Dame Stadium, as Hieky set the tone. Watters' 134 yards led a 414-"The linemen were awnsome," yard team rushing performance said Watters, who had the first that drove the top-ranked 1 00-yard rushing performance Fighting Irish, 9-0, to a 41-0 by a Notre Dame back this shutout of the Middies. year. "They said before the 
Notre Dame's victory, its first 'play that I would be in the sec­shutout of a team in six years, ondary." left the Irish with a 53-9-1 ad­Notre Dame scored three vantage in the all-time series plays later on a six-yard quar­between the two teams and left terback keeper by Tony Hiee. Navy coach Elliot Uzelac won­The extra-point kick by Craig dering why the nation's longest llentrich gave the Irish a 7-0 intersectional rivalry had to lead. continue. The second Notre Dame 
"I don't have anything to do series was similar to the first, with that; powers beyond me with the Irish getting all their determine it," Uzelac said yardage on the ground and about Navy's willingness to continue a series in which it has 
see NAVY I page 16 
..

Watters runs Middies aground 
By MARY GARINO myself that I can run the ball," Sports Writer Watters said after the game. "It's kind of frustrating when The first time Notre Dame you keep getting 80, 80, 80 got the ball on Saturday, Navy (yards per game). I thought I needed to send up a distress had a good game against Air signal. Force, and played pretty well 
Junior tailback Hicky Watters against USC because they have took the handoff from Tony a pretty good defense, but this Rice on the first play from has to be the best so far." scrimmage. for the Irish and No one on the Navy defense cruised into Midshipmen terri­would argue with that. Watters tory for a 43 yard gain. This rushed for 120 yards in the set a precedent for a game in first half alone, including a 48 which Navy defenders spent yard touchdown run in the most of the rest of the after­middle of the second quarter. noon watching Irish running Watters faked out three de­backs racing up and down the fenders on that play, making field. Navy's tacklers look extremelt 
In a game that saw Notre weak. Dame rack up a total of 414 Watters picked up two first rushing yards, Watters turned downs for the Irish in that first in one of the best days of his half, eluding Navy tacklers to college career. lie gained over gain valuable yards for Notre 100 yards on the ground, the Dame. The knock on Watters' first Irish player this season to performances recently has been do so, and his 134 yards sur­that he runs for a lot of yards, passed his personal best of 96 but he doesn't run in the right yards from this year's Air direction. Critics have pointed The Observer/ Andrew McCloskey Force game. 
Todd Lyght heads upfield after intercepting his eighth pass of the 

"It's kind of nice to prove to see RICKY I page 13 
season. 

Bankoske, lead ND hockey past Holy CrQss 
NO swimmers 
Compete in Notre Dame 

By KEN TVSIAC  Friday night  before Holy Cross  2 in the second period on a goal  year's team," says  Bankoske,  Relays, page 17  
Sports Writer  finally put one past Madson to erase the goose egg next to its  by freshman Todd Elliot, but the Crusaders could get no  "Between the two of them, Matt Hanzel and Bobby Herber ac­ 
The Notre Dame hockey team  name on the scoreboard. Notre  closer, as Madson was flawless  counted for 30 or 40 goals, so  
exploded on offense this week­ Dame, hardly panic-stricken by  the  rest  of the  way  and  the  now  that they're gone,  some­ 
end  to  thrash  the  Holy Cross  the goal, cruised to a 10-4 vic­ Irish exploded for four goals in  body has to put it in the net."  
Crusaders by scores of 10-4 on  tory.  the third period.  Keuhl  also  had  success  
Friday and 9-2 Saturday at the Joyce ACC. Dave Bankoske and Tim  Bankoske did most of the damage for the Irish in that game, tallying three goals for  · Bankoske chalked up two more goals Saturday, increas­ing his weekend total to five  putting the puck in the net after only recording one assist in two games last weekend.  Irish volleyball Drops two out of three  
Keuhl.  Notre  Dame's top  re­ his first hat trick since his se­ goals  and  two  assists.  The  "It feels great to get my first  over weekend, page 18  
turning  scorers,  helped  the  nior year in high school.  Keuhl  sophomore from Williamsville,  and second goals of the year  
Irish improve their recor.d to 3­ made his presence felt as well,  N.Y.,  now leads the Irish with  after hitting a couple of pipes  
1 for the season by bombarding  recording  two  goals and  two  seven goals on the season.  last weekend," says the Irish  
Holy Cross goalies Rob Arena  assists.  Bankoske  primarily  was  a  captain, "But we  didn't really  
and Matt Poska for eight goals  The Irish again jumped out to  playmaker in the past 111 goals  do anything different tonight. If  
and six assists between them in  an impressive early advantage  and 35 assists last year), and  we  just play  our  game  we  
the two games. Senior goalie Lance Madson lowered his  the following night. When Bankoske backhanded the re­ he credits his recent goal-scor­ing binge to the fact that he  should be able to beat a team like Holy Cross."  ND  lacrosse  
goals-against average to 4.82 and received credit for both victories. The Irish jumped out to a 6-0  bound of a Lou Zadra shot past Arena at the 13:28 mark of the first period; Notre Dame led 4­0.  knows he can no longer rely on somebody else to put the puck in the net. "We lost a Jot of seniors who  Indeed, Holy Cross appeared· to be out of its league this weekend. Notre Dame peppered  Loses hearbreaker to Washington College, page 14  
lead early in the second period  Holy Cross made the score  5­ scored  a  lot of goals for last  see HOCKEY I page 17  

~~------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
1ne uoserverl Anarew NcCioskey Ricky Watters streaks toward the end zone on a 48 yard touchdown run to give the Irish a 21-0 lead against Navy. Watters finished the day with a career high 134 yards on just 9 carries. 






