
VOL. XXII, NO. 134 FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Notre Dame The Coming of the Quad.I ven $3 3 m.II. The $33 million DeBartolo quadrangle to be completed by 1992
g EDWARD .I. DeBARTOLO CLASSROOM FACILITY 
Money will build new quad ~~----r--=,_..--:::JIII ----..,.,,.----~..,_..j E:~!!~·~~:~~:~s.seminarrooms, 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame has been given $33 million, the 18th largest gift to higher educa­tion, for construction of a new quadrangle on the area which is presently Green field and parking lots. 
Edward DeBartolo of Youngstown, Ohio is donat­
• Profile of the DeBartolo family I page 7 
ing the $16 million Edward 
J. BeBartolo Classroom facility and the $14 million Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The performing arts building is named after his wife who passed away in 1987. 
The DeBartolo gift is the largest in the history of Notre Dame. Previously the $12 million donated by Mrs. Joan Kroc for the Institute for International Peace Studies was the largest gift from an individual. 
The gift was announced at a press conference Thursday. DeBartolo, chair­man and chief executive of­ficer of the Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation; his son Edward DeBartolo, Jr., president and chief adminis­trative officer of the corpo­ration; Donald Keough, chairman of Notre Dame's trustees and president and 
chief  operating  officer  of  
The  Coca-Cola  Company,  
and  University  President  

Father Edward Malloy were present to answer questions about the new quad. 
"This is a historic moment and a historic occasion in the life of the University," said Keogh. "It is historical be­cause the fruits of this ex­traordinary generosity, two major buildings anchoring the new academic quad­rangle, will be completed as we celebrate our sesquicen­tennial in the year 1992." Malloy said the classi,"oom 
see MONEY I page 6 

lecture halls, audio-visual and computer ~ ___.,....," , equipment To be completed: early 1992 
Features: Auditorium seating for over 800, musical and theatrical study areas To be completed: late 1992 

~-.. 
The Observer I Laura Stanton 

Major construction will transform look of NO campus 
By NATASHA WILSON 
Senior Staff Reporter 
When students return in August they will discover several new features on Notre Dame's campus, including the beginnings of two new quads. In the works are a band practice facility and a ROTC building on the new east mall and a complex for the Hesburgh In­stitute for International Peace Studies, the Edward J. DeBartolo Classroom Facility and the Marie P. 
DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts on the new south academic mall. 
The University presented the Cas­teel Construction Company of South Bend with the contract for the new ROTC building and the band practice facility. Casteel built Knott and Siegfried Halls and the Snite Museum of Art. 
The band facility, currently under ·construction on University-owned land east of Juniper Road and west of the Loftus Sports Center will be named the John W. Koons, Jr. Rehear­sal Hall. 
Casteel will have completed all of the exterior masonry on the building by the time the students return in the fall and University officials expect the construction company to finish the rehearsal hall by March 1990. 
"Construction has gone smoothly so far. But, there's a lot of interior finish­ing for acoustical effects for that building which will take a long time to complete," said Donald Dedrick, director of the physical plant. 
In addition to the 226 members of the Marching Band, the Koons Rehearsal Hall will house the 60­member Concert Band, three smaller varsity bands, two jazz bands and woodwind, brass and ensemble bands. 
Koons, a 1965 alumnus of Notre Dame, has donated $3.5 million to cover the total budget for the band building project. 
see BUILD I page 6 



Oliver North convicted on three counts, could go to jail 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Oliver North, the Marine at the center of the Reagan administration's secret effort to arm the Nicaragua Contras, was con­victed Thursday of shredding documents and two other charges in the Iran-Contra af­fair. He was acquitted on nine other counts. 
North said he would appeal the jury's decision: "we're ab­solutely confident of the final outcome. As a Marine, I was taught to fight and fight hard for as long as it takes to the verdict without any show of emotion. But a congressal sup­porter described him as "ab­solutely elated" at the jury's decision. 
Mter judge and jury had left the room, North walked to a railing separating him from his wife, Betsy, and kissed her lightly on the cheek. Mrs. North had been sitting in the front row with a clergyman. 
It was the first trial born of the scandal that marred the last two years of Ronald Reagan's presidency and raised questions about then­Vice President George Bush's change for their support for the Contras. The White House said Bush would have no comment on the verdict. 
In Los Angeles, former PresidentReagan also declined commt!nt. 
North's defense was that he had been a good soldier loyally carrying out what he knew his commander-in-chief, the pres­ident, wanted. 
"The principle that no man is above the law has been vind­icated," said prosecutor John Keker, who refused to answer 
see NORTH I page 4 

prevail." involvment in the administra­
"We will continue this battle tion's clandestine effort to arm . . . and we will be fully vind­the Contras. icated," he told reporters in a Even as the jury was return­statement at his lawyer's of­ing its verdict, Bush told fice. He did not take questions. reporters at the White House 
The former Marine, who that he did not participate in faces up to 10 years in prison any arrangement to expedite on the convictions, accepted aid to other countries in ex-
Final Issue 

This is the last regular issue of The Observer for the 1988-89 academic year. Good luck on finals, and have a really nice summer. 
page 2 The Observer Friday, May 5, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 


Brown's special courses 
A U.S. military helicopter crashed and exploded in southern France after it hit a high-tension power line on a night training flight, killing all five Marines aboard, officials said 

I ift it above Notre Dame 
Thursday. The UH-1 Huey fell about 200 feet and then crashed into a mountain stream and exploded at about 9:45 p.m. Wed­nesday near Rougon, a village 60 miles northwest of Nice. The craft was from the amphibious assault ship Guadalcanal, in port in Toulon, and was assigned to Marine Medium Helicopter Squadron 162 based at the New River, N.C., marine Corps Air Station. The pilots were using night-vision goggles, but military officials said there was no reason to suspect the goggles played a role in the crash. A marine official in Washington, however, said the goggles do not permit pilots to see power lines. The Army recently ordered a safety inspection of its night-vision goggles after several crashes. 
Two West German doctors were kidnapped Thursday in the southern Lebanese port city of Sidon, according to a Moslem militia official in the area. The men were doing humanitarian work in Lebanon. He said the two, a man and a woman, were seized "by unknown gunmen between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. just beyond the Sinique Bridge" on the southern edge of Sidon, 25 miles south of Beirut, the capital. Police said they could not confirm the abduction. If the kidnappings are confirmed, they would raise the number of foreigners missing and believed held hostage in Lebanon to 17. The woman doctor would become the first woman hostage. The abduction came less than a week after the prosecution in West Germany demanded a life sentence for Mohammed Ali Hamadi, a Lebanese Shiite, for his role in the 1985 hijacking of a TWA plane and the murder of a U.S. Navy diver who was aboard. 
Young women who take birth control pills for more than four years run a significantly increased risk of breast can­cer, according to a major British study published Friday. The researchers said that among women younger than 36, they found a 43 percent increase in the risk of breast cancer after four years of pill use and a 74 percent increase after eight years. They called on doctors to tell women about the possible risks of breast cancer before they prescribe contraceptive pills, but they did not adv­ocate avoiding oral contraceptives. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
An Indiana iron foundry had an accidental death rate more than five times as high as the annual average for the most dan­gerous occupation in the United States, federal health officials reported Thursday. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control in At­lanta said in its weekly report Thursday that six workers at the foundry had been killed over the 12 years between 1974-1986, an unusually high rate for a work force of about 250 employees. According to the CDC, that corresponds to an annual mortality rate of 185 deaths for every 100,000 workers, compared to 30.1 deaths per 100,000 workers per year in mining--the most hazar­dous occupation. The rate of deaths in general manufacturing every year is 4.2 deaths per 100,000 workers, according to the CDC. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
The National Conference on Medjugorje, sponsored by the Queen of Peace Ministries, will be held May 13 and 14 at the Joyce A.C.C. Up to 8,000 people are expected. It is the first national conference on the alleged apparitions of the Virgin Mary, first reported by children in the Yugoslavian village on June 25, 1981. 
WEATHER 

Fitting for finals Cloudy and windy today with a 50 percent chance of showers, high of 60. More of the same tonight with a 30 percent chance of rain, low in the 30s. Partly sunny and cool Saturday, high 
in the 40s. 

ALMANAC 
On May 5: e In 1912: The first issue of the Soviet Communist Party newspaper 
Pravda was published. e In 1925: John Scopes was ar· 
rested in Tennessee for teaching Dar­win's theory of evolution. e In 1955: West Germany be­
came a sovreign state. e In 1980: A siege at the Iranian embassy in London ended as British 
commandos and police stormed the building. e In 1981: Irish Republican Army hunger-striker Bobby Sands 
died at the Maze Prison in Northern 
Ireland in his 66th day without food. e Ten Years Ago: With lines at California service stations getting longer and gasoline shortages being reported nationwide, President Carter said during a visit to Los Angeles that he's ordered Energy Secretary James Schlesinger to look into the situation. 
MARKET UPDATE 

S&P 500 +o.39 to 307.77 
Currency exchange 
Mark +.0014 to 1.8957 OM/$ 
Yen +0.25 to 134.16 ¥/$ 
Poundi} .0010 to 1.6810$/£ 
Precious Metals Gold +$070 to $377.701 oz. Silver+ 2.2¢ to $5.613 I oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 

lnformatron compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
They say Brown University is the hardest school in the country to get into and the easiest to graduate from. 
Notre Dame could learn a lot from this leader among I vies in the courses they offer their stu­dents. 
Mter three years at Notre Dame the good courses seem harder and harder to find. At Brown the students produce a semesterly review of courses called the Critical Review to help the students choose their courses. The Review offer comments made by students on the various courses offered. 
As I was paging through the Review, I realized why Brown is such a better school. It was not because they offer students copies of the Critical Review but rather that they offer these so-called extra departmental courses. Notre Dame is sadly lacking these types of courses. 
One such course that Notre Dame should em­ulate is Brown's course entitled "The Life of Birds." I am serious folks. According the the Critical Review the course studies the physiol­ogy, morphology, and behavior of birds. 
"Professor Ellis, teaching the class for the first time, won the approval of most of his stu­dents ... The students did like his frequent slide shows, which they felt kept the material engag­ingly visual," the Review commented. 
All of the extra departmental courses are not this great but the Brown guide does provide us with a good place to start. Although Notre Dame does not offer extra departmental courses per se, we would not have to set up a special program for these courses like Brown does because most of them would fit into our current departmental system. 
This course, for example, would fit quite nicely into the American Studies program. Per­haps American Studies could offer a three part mini course on American birds. They could be called American Birds: the Robin, American Birds: the Blue jay, and American Birds: the Pigeon. Additional birds of interest could be added later and any three course would count as a three credit course. 
This Brown course could be the start of a whole new breed of classes at Notre Dame. Of course we are only in the initial planning stages and more courses could be added later but I do have two other courses that would get us off to 
OF INTEREST 

FreshmanCiassMasswillbeheldtomorrow at 4 p.m. at the Grotto with Fr. Malloy. Bring blankets to sit on. If it rains, mass will be in the Stanford-Keenan Chapel. 
Last Class Night Jazz Jam will be held in Washington Hall tonight at 7:30, featuring the Larry Dwyer-Les Petz Quartet. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on­campus and local lecturers. Campus an­nounces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materials and determine if and where announcements will be published. -The Observer 

'I realized why Brown is such a better school ...they offer...extra departmental courses." 
Chris Donnelly 
Editor-in-Chief 
a good start. 

ART 101: Glassmaking. This course would 
teach the students the basic methods behind 
making glass. Students would only be required 
to do work during class since the glass making 
materials could not be taken home and the high 
temperatures need could not be acheived in the 
dorm rooms. 

The class's final would consist of make the 
most efficient bong possible. The final would 
not only test the students mastery of the meth­
ods of glassmaking but would also test their 
ability to adapt these methods to the needs of 
the world peace. 
PHIL 499: Philosophy and Wine Tasting. This 
course would discuss the central issue of 
philosophy--what kind of wine or drugs should 
we be ~sing when we are philosophizing. The 
class will feature frequent field trips to the wine 
and drug making facilities in and around In­
diana. 

For the class's midterm the students have a 
choice of one of two topics. They may either go 
to South America and do a report on drug pro­
duction or they may fly to Napa Valley and 
study methods of wine making. 
The class's mandatory final will be a trip to France to experience philosophy and wine first hand. Students will be required to do a reflective 
piece on the trip. 
I'm sure you will agree that these types of course are sadly lacking at Notre Dame. Per­haps if the students rose up and stormed the administration building they could force the university into submission. Nab, it will never happen. 
Chris Donnelly is a junior philosophy major and serves as Editor-in-Chie.ffor The Observer. 
Final Misaen EspanolwillbesaidSunday at 11 a.m. in Farley Hall's chapel, featuring the teen-age choir from St. Stephen's Church, La Vida. 
Studentsare needed toworkthissummer in the Alumni Association's Alumni Family Hall June 11-August 6, 1989 and during Reunion '89 Weekend June 8-11. Pick up your application now in 201 Administration Build­ing. 
Neighborhood Help Study Program T-shirts are here. All tutors can pick up one in Room 339 Breen-Phillips until the end of finals week. 
Gr~duating Seniors Moving to Chicago who are looking for good liturgies, continuing spiritual formation, and social con­cerns programs, should seek out Old St. Patrick's Church, 700 West Adams Street. For more info call 239-5293. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· chased for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Assocrated Press. All reproduction rrghts are reserved. 
Dealgn Editor........................... Chris Labaree Dealgn Aaalatant.......................... C ris Oritz Typeaettera ............................ Molly Schwartz ....................................................... Dan Towers Newa Editor ......... _ .................... Tim O'Keefe Copy Editor............................... John O'Brien Sporta Copy Editor............. Steve Megargee VIewpoint Copy Editor ......... Janice O'Leary VI-point L8yout ................. Tricia Grohman Etc. Editor ............................ Robyn Simmons Etc. Copy Editor......................... Missy Irving Etc. Dealgner ............................ Brian Grunert Typlata.......................................... Sue Barton ....................................................... Rosi Lozada NO Day Editor.......................... Betsy Mennell SMC Day Editor....................... Alissa Murphy Photographer................................ Eric Bailey Ada. Dealgnera .................... Shannon Roach .......................................................... Kerry Clair ....................................................... Todd Figura 
................................................................ 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up and wish her a happy one. By the way 


9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura, we do expect to see you dancing

11 on pool tables tonight. II LaFortune. 

Friday, May 5, 1989 The Observer page 3 

Foul play feared in I Panama elections 
AP Photo Panamanians run from an opposition rally after shots were fired into the air to disperse the crowd. Tens of thousands had gathered for the close of the Democratic Opposition Alliance (ADO) campaign, whose 
leaders had already charged the government with fraud. Several people were plainclothes men. 
A\ ..Jl~ &~~m?cmQQ
..rnllllll@~ ~00 

We'll miss you, Carrie! 
but at least our red sweaters will be safe! 
Love ya, Colleen, Denise, Kristen, Terry, Kathleen, ]oni, Beth, ]en, Sharon, Cheryl L, Audrey, Wendy, Laura, Liza, fen, & Monica 
Fine Irish Imports 

Does Your Mother Come From Ireland? 
Don't Forget Mother's Day May 14 
We have a fine selection of Irish Claddagh Jewelery, Glassware, Perfumes, Music, Books, Videos CO's, Sun Catchers, Door Knockers, Windsocks, Mugs & Sweatshirts. Come in and see our Little Irish Superstore at University Park Mall opposite Milady Shop Tel 272-6757 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
CLASS MASS AT THE GROTTO Saturday, May 6 4:00 P.M. 
with FR. MALLOY 
BRING BLANKETS 
Celebrate together as we did during Freshman Orientation 


(RAIN LOCATION: STANFORil1<EENAN CHAPEL 
injured by club-wielding 


Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama-The opposition closed its presidential campaign with some supporters predicting victory in Sunday's vote over the handpicked candidate of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega-­or bloodshed. 
"Count the votes or count the dead," read one of the opposi­tion coalition's signs Wednes­day at a rally attended by 100,000 flag-waving people on Via Espana in downtown Panama City. 
President Bush, opposition candidates and others predict that Noriega, the Defense Forces chief and Panama's de facto ruler, will steal the elec­tions. The government prom­ises clean elections. 
Opposition presidential can­didate Guillermo Endara said that if the public will is denied through vote-rigging, "Panamanians will march in defense of liberty.'' 
Never again, Endara said in reference to Noriega, "will the will of one man be above the will of the Panamanian people." 
The opposition candidates say there is no hope of 
Morris given one of seven fellowships 
Special to The Observer 
Thomas Morris, associate professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, has been selected as a Howard Foundation Fellow of the 1989 to 1990 academic year. He is one of seven fellows selected nationally from nominated ap­plicants. 
The George A. and Eliza Gardner Howard Foundation is administered by Brown Uni­versity. Established in 1952, its mission is "to aide the personal development of promising indi­viduals at the crucial middle stages of their careers." 
A specialist in philosophy of religion, Morris is best known for his book "The Logic of God 
FRESHMEN 
democracy in Panama as long as Noriega, indicted in Florida last year on charges of drug smuggling and money launder­ing, remains in power. Noriega has denied the charges. 
Opposition supporters snake­
. danced through the crowd Wed­nesday night with a black coffin pasted with a smiling picture of Noriega and a pineapple at­tached atop. "Pineapple face," a derogatory name the opposi­tion uses for Noriega, refers to his rough complexion. The pro-government coati­tion closes its presidential cam­paign tonight with a rally. Its ticket is headed by Carlos Duque Jaen, a close business associate of Noriega. 
The central issue of the cam­paign has been Noriega, and not Panama's protracted eco­nomic and social problems. 
The opposition contends gov­ernment workers, representing about 20 percent of the labor force, are being pressured by Noriega forces to attend the rally tonight and that the gov­ernment will truck thousands into the capital to swell the ranks. 
Incarnate," which iias made him a leading apologist for the incarnation of Jesus Christ. He has seven other volunes as well, including "Understand­ing Identity Statements," "The Concept of God," and "Philosophy and the Christian Faith." 
The focus of Morris's re­search for the coming year will be on the seventeenth century French philosopher and math­ematician, Blaise Pascal, and Pascal's "Pensees," particu­larly on the relevance of the "Pensees" to the modern quest for meaning in life. He hopes, as a culmination of this re­search, to write a ninth book, entitled "Faith, Reason and the Meaning of Life." 
As a result of being awarded this fellowship, Professor Mor­ris will not be teaching classes at Notre Dame next year. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-------------------------------------­
page 4 
Correction 

In the second part of the se­ries on tenure which ap­peared in The Observer Thursday, a section of the story was accidently omitted. The following paragraphs should be in­serted following "an added pressure to excel in re­search." 
"At a University, scholar­

ship and teaching are impor­
tant," he said. "Because we 
are a Catholic university, we 
must be a representative in 
the university world, thus 
we have an obligation to do 
both." 
He disagreed with the adage that one must "publish or perish." "I'd say it's more 'publish and teach, or perish'," he joked. 
Martin said that teaching and research are stressed but that "we're told that re­search is the main thing. They are constantly ad­dressing your research po­tential. 
Evidence of the impor­tance of research to a fac­ulty member's career is seen in a practice common to many academic depart­ments. In these depart­ments, junior faculty are 
given a year off from teach­ing in order to concentrate on research. 
"I think it's an excellent idea," said Martin. "If the University is willing to give someone a year off to better their dossier, it's excellent." 
Martin did concede that giving a faculty member a year off prevents them from teaching. 
"I had many of my stu­dents complain to me about a lack of courses to take. If five professors go on leave next year, there'll be even less," she said. 
However, Martin said that the Dean of the College of Science had provided funds to bring outside teachers in last year to make up the dif­ference. "If that's done again this year, I'm in favor of the idea," she said. 
Join The Observer 
North 
continued from page 1 
reporters' questions. 

Keker, in a brief statement on the courthouse steps, told reporters, "Some said the sys­tem of justice could not deal effectively with this case. Some even said it could not be tried. Col. North has been convicted of three very serious charges. The jury has spoken." 
North, 45, was pale and smiling nervously as he en­tered the courtroom where his trial began with jury selection more than three months ago. 
Correction 

Donald Costello, professor and chairman of American Studies and Communication Arts and professor of En­glish was omitted from the list of past directors of the Innsbruck Foreign Study Program. 
OVERSEXED 
BUT 
UNDERAGED 

Happy Birthday Pat 
The Observer Friday, May 5, 1989 
Warner to head Campus Ministry 
Special to The Observer 

Father Richard Warner, counselor to the president at the University, has been asked to assume responsibility for the Office of Campus Ministry, ef­fecive July 1. 
Rev. Andre Leveille an­nounced earlier that he was stepping down from the posi­tion of director of campus ministry, and he will return to the University in another capacity following a sabbatical break. 
Warner will include campus ministry among his other duties, which relate to the Cath­olic dimension of the Univer-
The Observer 
sity, including its relationship to the Church and to other Cath­olic colleges and universities, as well as the role of its found­ing religious community, the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Father Malloy said that put­ting campus ministry under Father signified its importance in the overall life of the Univer­sity, and he said the change had been approved by the officers of the University. Warner remains a member of the offi­cers group and will report to Malloy as his counselor and to Father David Tyson, vice pres­ident of student affairs, as director of campus ministry. 
Warner will continue to chair the Task Force on Evangeliza­tion Pastoral Ministry and So­cial Values. He said a new po­sition of associate director would be added to the campus ministry staff and that further 
expansion of personnel and programs would await the report of the task force. 
Warner, a trustee emeritus of the University, served as provincial superior of the In­diana Province of Holy Cross from 1979 to 1988. He assumed his counselor's position in Au­gust 1988. 
AVOID THE 
RUSH! 

Wish Audrey a Happy Birthday now. Don't wait till July. 
l' .


1 This notice may be 
blamed on Dad, Mom, Stephanie, Kristen, Gerry and Rachel. 
Happy 19th, A-P. 

WANTED 
POSITION: DIRECTOR OF FORENSICS (DEBATE & SPEECH COACH) FOR 1989-90 SEASON 
REQUIREMENTS: BACHELOR'S DEGREE. 
EXTENSIVE EXPERIEI,iCE. IN COMPETITIVE SPEECH & DEBATE (LAW & GRAD STUDENTS ARE URGED TO APPLY.) 
INFORMATION: 

CALL 287-5087 OR 239-7753 
OR WRITE DIRECTOR OF FORENSICS 302 LA FORTUNE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
r---,!~PYP~A~LU~MN~I========r---1 *••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
*
~~ 

~CLUB a 
FINALS? BAH! * 
* 

We're open~~~ FRI LUNCH a 
FRI NIGHT * *CLOSED SATURDAY May 6 ~ SENIOR Week HOURS: ~
*
* 

ay 12 and SAT May 13: *
* 

9-2:00 a.m. lt
* 

Wed • Sat: 9:00 • 2:00 a.m. ~ 
~1
RI M 

~. j 
• 

"Goin'out in a blaze of glory·· 
t 

Congrats and Good Luck to ie
•

wvr:;a"' t 
64 
ie 

senior Disk Jockeys t 
~ 

Tony Bonfiglio, Chris Brown, Rob Fisher, Mike Ford, "" Brian Gant, Andy Hughes, Matt Hyland, Mike Iannelli, iC Heather Ingraham, Dan Janick, Dave Kidder, Chris Koster, ~ 
Kate Lentz, Sandra McBride, Chris McGuire, Joe Medel, Tim Mulrooney, Jan Nerv.da, Brian Roche, Mike Stefanchlk, ~ Rod Strickland, Carrie Thomas, Tom Tlsa, Todd Waffner, it Christine Wassell, Bill Welnshelmer, &Sharon Young 
t 

~--(M--ay__I_7_-_M_a_y__2_o_)__~\****************************' 

Friday, May 5, 19_8_9___________________....:..T.:..:h=-e-=O:..:b:..::s.=.erv~e;_r_______________________.cPa::.;gz.::e=-..=5 

McCormick to receive two honorary degrees 
End-of-year work swamps camp labs 
By JOHN O'BRIEN "We think that it will ease off 
Senior Staff Reporter by next week," said Amy Har­
ron, also an employee of the La 
Fortune lab. 
The long waits and big Jannotta said that there was 
crowds at campus computer also a rush last semester at 
labs are only a result of a pre­finals time. "The week before 
finals week rush, said Donald finals last semester was hor­
Spicer, associate provost for rible." 
university computing. A new computer lab to be lo­
Students have reported waits cated in the Hesburgh Library 
at the 24-hour LaFortune com­is set to open in June. "It's all 
puting lab of up to two hours. physically there, but they're 
"I was at LaFortune Wednes­are still some pieces missing," 
day night at 1: 30 am and I still said Spicer. "It depends on 
had to wait for an hour," said some delivery times." 
freshman Blair O'Connor. Spicer said that keeping 
Spicer said that the lines are enough computers to satisfy
long because "it happens to be even peak demands is un­
the high peak time of the year" economical. "The university is 
for computer usage. He added aiming for a ratio of one com­
that there has been a period of puter for every 20 students," 
peak usage for the last 10 days. he said. 
Dana Jannotta, an employee 
of the LaFortune lab, said that Spicer added that current 
the average wait over the last campus computing facilities 
week has reached up to "an are at a ratio of one computer 
hour to an hour and a half." to 30 students. 
Catholic bioethicist, entered the Society of Jesus in 1940 and was graduated from Loyola University five years later. He obtained a master's degree from Loyola in 1950, and in 1953 he was ordained to the pries­thood. In 1957, he obtained a doctoral degree from the Gregorian University in Rome. Before joining· Notre Dame's faciulty in 1986, McCormick had been, since 1973, Rose F. Kennedy Professor of Christ­ian Ethics at Georgetown Uni­versity's Kennedy Center for Bioethics. For the previous sixteen years, he had been a professor of moral theology at the Jesuit School of Theology in Chicago. 
Shuttle launches with probe 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.-Atlantis found a hole in the clouds and thundered into orbit Thursday, sailing 184 miles above Earth where five astronauts prepared to propel NASA's state-of-the­art Magellan probe on a mapmaking journey to Venus. 
Scientists hoped the $550 million project would open a new "golden age,; for an American planetary pro­gram dormant for a decade. 
In a spectacular start, the winged spaceplane vaulted away from its seaside launch pad at 2:47 p.m. EDT, after being delayed a cliff-hanging 59 minutes by shifting clouds and winds that had threatened a second postponement in six days. 
The astronauts quickly turned to remotely checking Magellan before its sched­uled release later Thursday into an independent orbit. 
page 6 The Observer 
College. "The family style and a Business School building.
Money 
the success of our family really Malloy said it would be prema­
continued from page 1 
stems from being involved in ture to speak about any other building will contam state-of­the University of Notre possible buildings. 
Dame," said DeBartolo. The issue of parking is athe-art computer and "volatile" one, said Malloy.
audiovisual equipment as well as classrooms of various sizes. Malloy said in order to have "We recognize the need for "Now we have the opportunity a quadrangle in the real sense short range and long range 
planning with regards to
not only to bring to the campus of the word, "there will have performing groups of various to be a relocation of possibly parking," said Malloy. "We kinds, but also to attract an the post office." "The Univer­have plenty of property that we 
can expand the parking into but even stronger faculty," said sity Club at some point prob­it will be less convenient thanMalloy. He also said that the ably would have to be moved," 
performing arts center will be said Malloy. He did say that the it is presently." The possibility of a physical structure is also
"cultural center" for the Mic­Center for Continuing Educa­being looked into, according to hiana community. tion will remain. 
Malloy.

DeBartolo, Sr., said he had been approached by University Notre Dame A venue will President Emeritus Father remain open, but cars will no Malloy said it was unclear at Theodore Hesburgh and Fa­longer be allowed to take a this point how the construction ther Edward Joyce about a right at the post office on Dorr would effect parking for the donations in the past. Jokingly, Road, said Malloy. The traffic next football season. he said, "they never quite gave will instead go around the us the snow job that Father perimeter of the campus, be­Keogh said the performing Malloy gave us." hind the stadium, according to arts center and a new class­
"We hope that the thousands Malloy. room building were top of students who follow us will priorities. Now that the funds benefit from the enhancement The other buildings on the have been committed, Keogh of the quality of educational op­quad will include the Hesburgh said the library and scholar­portunities at Notre Dame," Center for International ship funds will take top 

said DeBartolo. 
DeBartolo and his son graduated from the University and his daughter, Marie graduated from Saint Mary's Studies, which has already been funded, said Malloy. He also said the University has been in negotiations with friends of the University about priority. The "Strategic Mo­ment" campaign has a long way to go, according to Keogh, and they are currently seeking alumni support. 
The Observer I Florentine Hoelker 

Chairman of the University Board of Trustees Donald Keough, (from left) University President Father Edward Malloy and Edward DeBartolo, Sr. field questions at a press conference on Thursday. The conference was called to announce DeBartolo's $33 million gift to the University. 
Build 
continued from page 1 
The single-story facility spanning 25,000 gross square feet will contain a main rehear­sal room with a band shell shaped ceiling, storage areas, a sheet music library and of­fices for band directors and stu­dent officers. 
Casteel began construction on the ROTC building in February and has already laid the foundations and most of the foundation walls. Dedrick said the construction company will probably be working on ex­terior mansonry for the build­ing in September. The project is currently on schedule and should be completed by April 1990, he noted. 
The new building faced in limestone and Notre Dame brick will replace the 1943 pink building near St. Mary's Lake as the home of the Notre Dame Air Force, Army and Navy ROTC programs. 
Frank Pasquerilla will un­derwrite the $5.75 million cost of the ROTC building. Pasquerilla previously donated the two female residence halls which bear his name. 
The University will open bids soon for the peace studies cen­ter and construction for the 60,000 square foot complex will probably begin in early June, said Dedrick. 
"The complex is sort of a vil­lage concept. Visiting fellows and professors will be able to teach, attend conferences and reside conveniently all in the same location," he said. The complex, consisting of three buildings connected by inside corridors, will be located on Notre Dame Avenue. 
Joan Kroc, the widow of the founder of the McDonald's hamburger chain, is donating $6 million to cover the total cost of the complex. 
Rocco's Hair 

Styling 
531 N.Michigan St. Phone 233-4957 

The new wing on Nieuwland Science Hall will be ready for occupation in three months, said Dedrick. The three floor addition will consist of physics classrooms and labs, faculty offices and research space. The wing's basement will eventu­ally house the University Ad­ministrative Computer, said Dedrick. 
In addition to the construc­tion projects the University will also expand the under­ground utilities this summer to accomodate the new buildings. 



JUMP IN THE SADDLE FRIDAY SATURDAY BICYCLE SALE SUNDAY 
Mountain Bikes from $210 Road Bikes from $223 choose frorn Raleigh, TREK, Bianchi 
Choose the best bike for yourselffrom your friends at OUTPOST SPORTS 
Receive a $50 gift certificate with the purchase of any retail priced bike 
Bike tune-up special $20. Free pickup & delivery in limited area 
259-1000 

I'll Miss you guys!! Love, Patti 
THIS 
RHUCTIONS 
IN 
THI -----­
OOMI 

""" '' uo11 1 '""" " 

When Notre Dame was not so big, nor nearly as famous as she is today, the makers tithe "Notre Dame Mystique" walked the campus. 
Take a trip through time in the first-person singular with twenty-four of Notre Dame'~ more distinguished writers, including Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Prof. Ed Fischer, Prof. Tom Stritch, Prof. Robert leader, Gov. John Gilligan. Alumni writers include coach Ray Meyer, Ed Haggar, Con­gressman Ron Mazzoli, Sally Stanton Mackenzie, and others. 
"It's a nostalgic, ifr¥essionistic look at our university through the eyes of those who li~ed and taught here." Th order REFLECTIONS IN THE DOME, complete the coupon below and return it with your check (or charge it to 
t.______...r  yuur credit card) for $11.95 per book (inlcudes $2.00 for  
postage and handling) to: Hammes Notre Dame' Bookstore,  
Please send  cop)·(ies) of  Notre Dame, IN 46556.  

REFLECJ'IONS IN TilE DOME: SIXTY YEARS Of UFE AT NOTRE DAME PLEASE PRINT: 
NAME-----·-------------­
MID~------------------------------------­
CITY, m-re,1Jp _________________ 
~----------------------------------­
For Cftdit ani cfw-Bes, please complete the additional inbmalion. CREDIT CARD# _________EXPIRY----­
SIGNATIJRE __________________ 
Friday, May 5, 1989 The Observer page 7 
DeBartolo family has close ND ties
Concert and lecture 
By COLLEEN CONLEY Staff Reporter 
Saint Mary's member James Johnson ternately lectuted and formed selectiOns Mozart, Beethoven Schumann, intended to the height of classicism romanticism. 
Johnson, anassociate fessor of humanistic entitled "Passion Classicism." sought to address the tions that arise from music such as "Can express passion? How music express Whose passions are Because the ideal of sicism is "some sort of son or balance/' the classicist period is regarded as lacking in sion, Johnson said. 
··m.bin·ed 

dispi~~es the theory classicism is without xJ>a~sion." He went on to 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Senior Staff Reporter 
Edward J. DeBartolo, the contributor of $33 million to the University for the construuc­tion of a new academic quad, is a graduate of the Notre Dame class of 1932. 
DeBartolo, who presented the gift Thursday morning, graduated from the University with a degree in civil enginee­ring. He then proceeded, over the next forty years, to build a corportation which controls over 86 million square feet of retail space and which is worth over $1 billion. 
His business, the Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation, is headquartered in Youngstown, Ohio. DeBartolo serves as the chairman and chief executive officer of the corporation. Youngstown, which is DeBar­tolo's hometown, also served as the site of DeBartolo's first shopping mall. 
The DeBartolo Corporation is reputed to be the world's largest developer asnd manager of shopping malls. The corporation directs the de­velopment of the 14 department and specialty stores which 
SECURITY BEAT 

Edward DeBartolo, Sr. 
comprise the Higbee Company in partnership with Dillard De­partment Stores, Inc. 
The firm is also involved in the furthur development of the Cincinatti-based Allied Federated Department Stores, Inc. which includes Bloomingdale's, The Bon, Goldsmith's, Lazarus, and Maas Brothers, among others. 
The DeBartolo family, in­cluding Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., who serves as the president and chief administrative offi­cer in his father's corporation, 
Edward DeBartolo, Jr. 
is one of the top investors in sports enterprises. The firm operates two thoroughbred horse racing facilities, owns the NHL Pittsburgh Penguins, and owns the San Francisco 49ers. 
Edward J. DeBartolo Jr. is a 1968 Notre Dame graduate, and has served in his present posi­tion since 1979. 
DeBartolo Sr.'s wife, Mrs. Marie Patricia DeBartolo, died in August 1987 of a respiratory ailment. 
Security for travelling 52 mph in a from the D-2 student parking lot. The
MAY 1 
posted 25 mph zone on Juniper road. vehicle was last seen approximately two 
I:51 p.m. An off campus student weeks ago. Total losses are estimated reponed the theft of his books from his at $13,000. 
MAY 3
unsecured locker in the basement of
Best Wishes 
10:25 p.m. Notre Dame Security 4:09 p.m. A resident of Grace HallHayes-Healy sometime between 5:30 reponed vandalism done to the gate to reponed that some unknown person(s)p.m., 4/27 and 3:00 p.m., 4/30. Total
on your 

the Maintenance Warehouse sometime had damaged the windshield wiper and losses are estimated at $130. 
within the week. Total damages are cracked the front window of his vehicle 
engagement, 

estimated at $200. while parked in the D-2 lot sometime MAY 2 12:30 p.m. Three Grace Hall residents between 4/30 and 5/2. Total damages
Mike & Christie 
4:00 p.m. An off-campus student reponed the theft of personal propeny are estimated at $215. reponed the theft of his bicycle from from their unsecured dorm room outside of University Village apts. sometime between 3 and 7 p.m. on 
4:30 pm A resident of Stanford Hall sometime between 4/25 and 5/2. Total 4/29. Total losses are estimated at 
reponed the theft of his video cassette losses are estimated at $70. $500.
··Love, 

recorder from his dorm room sometime 
6:55 p.m. A Fisher Hall student was 2:32 p.m. A Grace Hall resident 
prior to 4:00p.m. on 4/3.Total losses issued a citation by Notre Dame reponed the theft of his motor vehicle are estimated at $240. 
.the Grace guys & 
thePEgirls 

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINIUNG AND DRIVING,
Join The Observer 

COMING HOME TO CHICAGO THIS SOMMER'? 
We have jobs waiting!l! 
Full-time, part-time, day-time, night-time Jobs to fit your summer schedule! 
• General Office • Wordprocessing • Secretarial • • Customer Service • Telemarketing • Typing • • Reception • Data Entry • Factory • • Ught Industry • and more! • 
We offer great pay, benefits & bonuses! Call today for more information! 
Downtown .. Oak Brook 
Personnel Pool~
781-7220 Temporary S.Mc.et 571-3900 
Al•flaiiiiLIMI•. r,...,..,., 

Eight locations to serve you throughout the Chicagoland area: Downtown (Michigan Ave. & Randolph St.), Oak Lawn, River Forest, Oak Brook, Aurora, Hanover Park and Skokie 
,~GR£AT  
~\YALL  Reservations for Graduation Special Party Rooms Available  
SPECIAL MOTHER'S DAY BUFFET  8.95  
All you can eat  Sun May 14 thru May 18  

Includes Saup, Appetizer, 8 Entrees and Dessert (Othe( menu items also available) 130 Dixie WayS., South Bend (next to Randllll's lnnl-272-7376 
POSTALJOB 
EARN OVER $25,000. YR. Excellent for Part-time work for students $10.63 hr Special announcement for all candidates planning to sign up for the POSTAL EXAMINATION given in your area. Last given in 1986 -since it won't be offered again for at least 3 years, don't miss out. 
4-HOUR WORKSHOP Now is the time to prepare. The pressure is on to score as high as possible to get the job. Career Postal Workers will now earn over $25,000. yr. Men and women, regardless of age, or education are eligible. The first step toward a postal career is getting your name onto the "Register of Eligibles," which is accomplished by passing this Exam. To be one of the first hired, you need to get one of the higher scores! This workship is being offered now, prior to the formal announcement of the examination dates, to give you adequate time to prepare for the test. Many post offices begin testing within a week of the announcement which isn't enough time to prepare properly. The workshop is free and the cost of materials is $49.00 including books and cassette. You will be placed on the postal hire list or your cost of materials will be 100% refunded. CALL 1-800-624-6353 Ext. 222 to reserve your seat. All questions answered at the workshop. Workshop to be held May 6th 1-5 pm at Roger B. Francis Branch library 52655 Ironwood Drive, South Bend, IN The Learning Institute Is an educational corporation dedicated to learning by preparation. Not affiliated with the U.S. Postal Service 

~-------~ ----------~-~--­
------------~-------------~­
page 8 The Observer Friday, May 5, 1989 

The Observer I E.G. Bailey

Feeding the poor 
Michael Noone, Boxing Club President (middle, with envelope) presents a check for $15,000 to Father James Ferguson as Andy Panelli (left) and Walt Rogers watch. The check represents the proceeds from the 1989 Bengal Bouts and is said to be enough money to feed 4000 people for a week in drought-stricken Bengladesh. 
Ohio State president to visit ND 
By NATHAN FITZGERALD Staff Reporter of their affiliation-with Notre 1981, Jennings became the Dame. Because of this, Tidrick tenth president of Ohio State. Dr. Edward Jennings, presi­said, "I'm trying to tie our ac­Jennings is co-author of a 
dent of Ohio State University, tivities in with the University finance textbook, "Fundamen­will make his first visit to Notre of Notre Dame." tals of Investments," which is Dame to meet with University Jennings began his career in in its fourth printing, and con­
President Father Edward Mal­1969, as an assistant professor tinues to teach finance courses loy and Notre Dame's College of finance at the University of from time to time to keep in of Business Administration Iowa. Not long after, he earned touch with students. faculty on May 24. the position of vice president Although Jennings' visit 
"The purpose of the visit is for for finance and university comes between semesters for two-fold," said Assistant Pro­services. In 1979, he became Notre Dame, Tidrick said that fessor of accountancy Donald president of the University of anyone interested from the Tidrick. "He's going to be the Wyoming, only ten years after Notre Dame family who will be guest of honor at Michiana's receiving his Ph.D. from the in the area on May 24 would be Ohio State alumni club spring University of Michi~an. and in welcome. banquet, and also, it's an op­potunity for Ohio State Univer­sity and Notre Dame to get to 
Happy 21st 

know each other as institu­
Birthday

tions." 
After meeting with Malloy, Jennings will speak to mem­bers of the College of Business 
Fuzzy

Administration faculty on "Issues in Higher Education in 
and

the 21st Century." Following a campus tour, he 
Seanster

will attend a reception at and a dinner in the Monogram Room of the Joyce ACC for local Ohio State alumni and other 
From-

friends in the area. 
The Roommates
Tidrick said he feels that of all the Ohio State alumni clubs, 
from Hell 

Michiana's is unique because 
Surgeon General Koop plans July retirement 
GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPOS TUESDAY, MAY 9th THRO SUNDAY, MAY 14th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS, & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME 
GREYHOUND TRUCK WILL BE BEHIND BOOKSTORE MAY 9th THRO MAY 14th FROM 1O:OOA.M UNTIL 4:30 PM SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET .MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDMDOAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED lOofa. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS.· 
.i/o·,-,::-----~ ----------­
::J.%.J ., ..... (;HEYfiOUND

..Lt£...r , .~KAGE EYPRESS 
,----1-~~ --------1 
~­

-..­
~~-~---~--.-b 
l--------------------------------------------------~ 

ieiNplij(eltJ 

TAKING A STUDY BREAK?
SJ~I=t: 
CAMPUS 

Purse Wallet Keys Backpack Pocket calculator 
TAKE YOUR STUFF WITH YOU. 
TAKE ABITE OUT OF This message from NOTRE DAME the Notional Crime Prevention Council mode possible by o generous
~liME 

grant from MasterCard lnternolionol 
NOTRE DAME CRIME STOPPERS 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Dr. C. Everett Koop, whose cam­paigns against smoking and AIDS marked an often­controversial seven years as surgeon general, told Presi­dent Bush today he will leave office in July. 
Koop, in a brief letter to the White House, said he had told Bush in February that he would not serve out his full second term, which ends in November. The surgeon general said he will leave July 13. 
Koop, 72, was appointed the government's top health offi­cer by President Reagan and was sworn into office in J anu­ary 1982. 
In his letter, Koop said James Mason, assistant secretary for health at the Department of Health and Human Services, will name an acting surgeon general after he leaves. The surgeon general heads the Public Health Service's Com­missioned Corps in the Depar­tment of Health and Human Services. 

Well! Albie Damm You're 21 Today. 

Love Mom, Dad, and the whole DammFamily 




Viewpoint
Friday, May 5, 1989 page 9 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-IIH:hlef Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor ..•. Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager •••••.••.••• Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ••••••. Shannon Roach Sports Editor ••••.•.......•....•••• Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector ................... Angela Bellanca Controller ............................ Anne Undner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL LETTERS 
'Green Quad' a needed addition 
Thursday morning, the University announced that the Edward DeBartolo family will donate $33 million for the construction of a new classroom building and a performing arts center. 
These two buildings, along with the soon-to-be-built Institute for International Peace Studies funded by Joan Kroc, will form the basis of a new Quad of aca­demic buildings on Green Field. This new 'Green Quad' will be completed and be ready for student use by 1992. 
This gift by the DeBartolo family was quite generous. It was the largest single gift ever received by Notre Dame, with Kroc's gift of $12 million the second largest. The DeBartolo's gift was the 18th larg­est single gift ever given to any university. 
The new buildings are an answer to two main prob­lems the University faces. First, the new classroom building will help relieve the space shortage which has plagued the College of Arts and Letters. O'Shaughnessy Hall is clearly inadequate for the College. As a result, Arts and Letters classes are held all over campus. The building of new classroom facilities will hopefully relieve some of the space pre­ssures the large size of the College of Arts and Letters has caused. 
The second building, a performing arts center, will help improve an area in which Notre Dame is weak. Washington Hall, the current performing arts center, is not sufficient if the University wishes to develop a thriving performing arts program. The addition of up-to-date facilities hopefully signals the beginning of a new commitment to the fine arts. 
The building of this new quad signifies that the ad­ministration is truthful in its stated desire to improve the academic quality of the University. The addition of these facilities should spur the building of further classroom and laboratory facilities on this new quad. 
Student network seeks to eradicate apartheid 
Dear Editor: we will still be here. As long as We, on the board of the net­
As co-chairperson of the South Africa practices a sys­work, have put much time and Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid tem of apartheid, we will be effort into the Anti-Apartheid Network, I would like to clarify here. movement because we believe the purpose of the Notre Dame Our main goal is to end apar­this is a movement in which we chapter. Unlike Amy Eckert's theid. Divestment and dis~ can have a direct impact. claim in her May 3 letter to the investement are simply tools editor, our goal goes beyond as­that we believe should be used Finally, we did not get in­king the University of Notre toward that end. volved because it was the Dame to divest from its hold­Awareness of the plight of popular thing to do. We a are ings in companies operating in four-fifths of all South Africans involved because we cannot sit South Africa. We do believe is the first step towards dis­back and let the people of South "Apartheid to be morally mantling apartheid. Apartheid Africa continue to suffer when wrong," and we do "feel invest­Awareness Week was a very it is within our power to make ing in a nation which practices positive step towards educat­a difference. apartheid is morally wrong and ing the people of Notre Dame. inherently contradictory to Yes, there are many other is­Maeve O'Donovan Notre Dame's values"; sues that need to be discussed, Co-Chair, Notre Dame however, if the University of and the network supports Anti-Apartheid Network Notre Dame divests tomorrow raising awareness in general. May 3,1989 
Fundraiser makes tuition increase superfluous 
Dear Editor: tional counterparts throughout will aid the Institute for Pas­
Currently the fundraiser, the United States, Notre Dame toral Social Ministry, the uni­"Notre Dame: A Strategic Mo­ranks 29 out of 35 in tuition versity's graduate program, ment," has collected $339.7 mil­price. endowed professorships, the lion. The bulk of the funding is Why does Notre Dame need upgrading of various physicalsupposedly going to help im­to raise its tuition just because facilities, and the mission toes­prove the undergraduate pro­'other Catholic universities' tablish Notre Dame as a great gram through greater endow­tuitions are even higher? $339.7 research university. Where ments of scholarships. This is million is a great sum of will the money raised by next great news--Notre Dame is money, especially when con­year's tuition hike go? From moving ahead. Also moving sidering that the figure is likely the looks of it all, Notre Dame ahead, however, is the rise of to escalate substantially seems to be askingior what it tuition-to the tune of 9.6 per­throughout the year and a half doesn't need. cent for the 1989-90 school year. remaining for the fundraiser. Tim J. Anderson Of course, in comparison to We are told that the funding Fisher Hall Notre Dame's Catholic institu-from "A Strategic Moment" May 2, 1989 
Misleading report perpetuates myths about rape 
Dear Editor: director of security, in deeming It is a myth that this campus 
In response to the May 3 ar­'88-'89 a "good school year" on has not had a rape in three ticle "Security shows major the premise that no news is years. Furthermore, the crimes down in '88-89" by Kel­good news? publishing of misleading secur­ley Tuthill : The under-reporting of rape ity reports, like the one on May 
Where is the logic in finding and related sexual offenses is 3, can only serve to perpetuate relief in that "there has been a nation-wide dilemma. The this myth and ignore the crisis no campus rape reported in latest report is that assaults af­at hand. three years?" Has not an in­fect one out of four college wo­Barbara Sachar credible leap in assumption men, yet few of these assaults Off-campus been made by Rex Rakow, are officially recorded. May 4, 1989 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'It one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.' 
Henry David Thoreau 

. . . 
... " ~ J • t ) 

Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, May 5, 1989 
Sex counts only with serious commitment 
Fornication is an ugly word. In fact, it is a word that has effectively dropped out of our vocabulary. Its euphemistic renderings : "cohabitation," "shacking up," and other less positive equivalents appear to have won the day. And sexual activity prior to marriage is rarely preached against, from the pulpit or elsewhere. And those who do condemn it are instantly branded, scoffed at, and generally held in low es­teem. 
But let's look at the facts and what is really at stake. Chris­tianity tells us that the gift of one's self in sexual intimacy is a non-trivial thing. Sex without love is bestial--a thing for animals. (We're free to be animals, but then again its our loss: actions have their conse­quences). Sex without per­manent commitment is a lie: it pretends to give completely while at the same time holds back. Somehow, the Gospel keeps trying to tell us that we must put sex, with all its allure­ment and enjoyment, in its true place. 
Sex without per­manent commit­ment is a lie: it pretends to give completely ... 

Sexual passion isn't the best thing there is. It's good--God doesn't create what isn't, but it isn't the high point of human existence. And what's more, it isn't close. Only losers in the game of human development think otherwise. This is be­
cause minds preoccupied with sex, and it doesn't take much, miss out on a hell of a lot of other and better things. The wisdom literature of all 
Thomas D'Andrea 
Inside Out 

developed civilizations attests to this. Sex when not a servant tyrannizes. Thus have spoken wise men of all ages. 
Sex is a powerful thing: it can bring human beings endowed with immortal souls into exis­tence and can wreak psychic havoc in otherwise positive in­terpersonal relations. But with all the rules and seeming taboos that govern the interac­tion of the sexes, a certain illu­sion can be created--that sex, a forbidden fruit jealously guarded, must be a treasure of tremendous worth. Our sex­obsessed age has even produced some pseudo­theology that would have it that Adam and Eve's first act of dis­obedience before God involved sex. As if sex were the only or the most fundamental way human beings could alienate themselves from God. 
Temptations to engage in il­licit sexual activity, like all temptations, do have similar form to that very different temptation undergone by our first parents. One hears whispered in one's ear, "Try it and ye shall be as gods." But this is deceit. Sexual pleasure itself is of some, but not much, worth. It is as an expression of the love between a man and a woman permanently commit­ted that sex counts. And with that love, sex's glory and greatest worth lies in its 
procreative power. It is the most profound form of co­creation man can engage in without God. 
So there must be mores governing sexual activity. Wit­ness what the outbreak of "sexual freedom" has done to family and civic life, in inner city as well as suburb, in this country alone: abortions, divorces, family violence, and a long string of broken families and broken homes. These mores, dictates of Christian morality itself, exist not to coerce us but to instruct us and to help our weak wills. They en­lighten us in advance about sex's proper place and poten­tial dangers. 
Any clever animal can break the "rules" concerning sex. To do so is not to rob the store but to rob oneself. Christian sexual morality exists to help us use our freedom well. So we should love it and defend it against the many who are duped into think­ing it enslaves or inhibits us. 
Thomas D'Andrea is a graduate student in philosophy and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 

Faculty unionization ignores education 
By Charles E. Rice ability of the senate, as a cor­an escalating tuition, beyond would worsen the position of through a new format. The porate body, to govern anyth­the rate of inflation, every the students and their families. members of the Faculty Senate The Faculty Senate has voted ing. William F. Buckley once year. It is not fair to impose on We do not need a faculty are able and conscientious 
to explore the issue of faculty said that he would rather be students and their families the share in the actual governance professionals. They deserve unionization. In his forthright governed by the first 250 names burden of paying for research of Notre Dame. And we do not better than to be patronized by and perceptive analysis of the in the Boston phone book than prestige than bears only a mar­need a faculty union. Rather we their participation in the futile status of the Senate, published by the Harvard faculty. My ginal relation, if any, to the need to recover our historical exercise that the senate has be­in The Observer, April 26, Fac­sentiments are similar. education of undergraduates. mission in various respects. We come. ulty Senator Robert Kerby of­The discontent in the Faculty How does the move for fac­are, strangely, a "Catholic" fered three alternative courses Senate, however, is a reflection ulty unionization fit into the pic­university with a de facto or­But unionization is not the an­of action: 1) continuation ofthe of a more basic unease. The ture? As at other universities, thodoxy of dissent. We are a swer. Rather, the answer lies status quo in which the senate primary historical focus of the senior faculty have gone residential university with in a rededication to governance is regarded by the administra­Notre Dame has been the edu­along with the pursuit of re­policies that tend to drive even in the tradition of Notre Dame. 
tion as practically irrelevant; cation of undergraduates, with search prestige as their pay non-drinking students off What matters is not what they 
2) dissolution of the Faculty research and graduate studies has steadily increased. Sadly, campus for social activities. think of us at Princeton or Senate; and 3) unionization of playing a balanced and impor­and perhaps comically, the The Holy Cross priests, whose Yale, but the quality of the ser­the faculty. tant role in the overall mission senate was roused from its tor­predecessors founded and built vice we provide for our stu­
At both the April and May of the University. Now, por, not by any substantive this institution, have relin­dents. We are entitled to hope meetings of the Senate, I however, Notre Dame is pursu­issue but by the temerity of the quished the principal offices that the Holy Cross priests, who moved that the senate be dis­ing prestige as a great administration in reducing the controlling academics, theol­are 6 of the 12 Fellows of the solved. Any organization has "research university." While medical and related benefits ogy and admissions. I believe University, will reflect on the the power to dissolve itself, if the official rhetoric empha­package. The bottom line in the we are worse off as a result. In history of this institution and only by adjourning sine die. sizes that teaching and re­unionization move is a money the process, they may be return it to its primary function The Kerby analysis is correct search are equally important, line. Unionization is a tactic to squandering a heritage that which is the education of stu­in that the senate, in its current the undergraduate students preserve and improve the eco­was not theirs to diminish. The dents in the Catholic tradition. mode, is a practically useless know better. And so do the fac­nomic position of the faculty. faculty should not govern. But 
waste of time. The status quo ulty, especially those who are It would perpetuate the they should be effectively con­is unacceptable. However, I untenured and who realisti­devaluation of teaching in the sulted and their advice Charles E. Rice i8 a professor voted to disband the senate be­cally conclude that the building of "a great research seriously considered, whether of Law at the Notre Dame Law cause the alternative of faculty procurement of grants and the university." If anything, it through the Faculty Senate or School. unionization is wholly objec­generation of publications tionable. To unionize is to ac­count more heavily for career LETTERS cept the ultimate weapon of the purposes than time spent with strike. A teacher, at whatever students. 
University should support use of contraceptives 
level and especially in a uni­The students pay the price versity, has a fiduciary duty for the pursuit of prestige in Dear Editor: the university is concerned for hand. AIDS, venereal diseases, which is inconsistent with the more frequent mega-sections, Notre Dame is a university its members. Notre Dame and unwanted pregnancies are calling of a strike. more reliance on teaching as­that refuses to accept the fact should follow the example of problems that can be 
Although the senate has sistants and increased diffi­that student sexual activity these universities despite the prevented. For uneducated and voted only for a "preliminary culty in gaining entrance to exists. Though Notre Dame is fact that it is mostly, yet not uncaring individuals to deploreinvestigation," the reality is desired courses. "When I was a Catholic university and the entirely, a Catholic institution. the use of contraceptives is a that the senate has set itself on a freshman here at Notre teachings of Catholicism College is a time for young crime, but in an institution a path toward advocacy of uni­Dame," wrote senior Jack strongly oppose the ideas of adults to develop and experi­where it is believed some of the onization. Rather than see the McLaughlin in his Observer pre-marital sex and birth con­ence feelings and emotions world's most intelligent and in­senate used for this purpose letter of January 26, "my trol, condoms are no longer a heretofore unknown to them. tellectual persons study and and rather than see it continue average class size (excluding question of morals, they have For the University of Notre teach, it is a sin. as the useless enterprise it has Chemistry) was somewhere become a question of life or Dame to condemn the use of become, I would disband it. between 25 and 30. That year, death. With the growing threat contraceptives is to revert Sean M. Howley 
The move toward unioniza­it cost approximately $10,800 to of sexually transmitted dis­back to the Dark Ages, when Grace Hall tion is intended to promote fac­attend this university. This eases, AIDS in particular, it is ignorance ruled with an iron May 2, 1989 ulty governance of the Univer­year, as a senior, I am taking my opinion that Notre Dame sity. Senator Kerby prefaced the most important classes of publicly realize its students are his endorsement of unioniza­my academic career. My sexually active and make con­Church morals altered at ND tion with the comment, "Or, average class size is some­doms available on campus. Not Dear Editor: priest in my Medical Ethics third, the senate can just take where between 70 and 80, with only for the prevention of these In 1968, Pope Paul VI wrote class proposes all of these a leaf from the Continental no class (excluding a Navy deadly viruses, but for the his encyclical letter "Humanae above practices as morally ac­Congress, and just start Management class) containing promotion of safe sexual con­Vitae," in which the use of all ceptable despite the Magis­governing." While Notre Dame fewer than 50 students. This duct as well. methods of artificial birth con­terium's clear, official teach­is an excellent institution, we education costs over $15,000 a A number of institutions trol was declared morally il­ing. Presumably, one thing do have problems. But the an­year. The University is effec­across the United States, such licit. Then, in 1987, the Congre­that a Catholic does is accept swer to those problems will not tively charging us much more as the University of Michigan gation for the Doctrine of the what the Church's teaching au­be found in a greater faculty for much less." and the University of Southern Faith came out with an thority proposes for his or her role in actual governance. My The number of faculty is in­California, have already taken "Instruction on Respect for belief. What's going on here? service on the senate is a form creasing but no one can con­steps to educate their students Human Life" in which in vitro Is a new church starting up at of "jury duty." I have enjoyed vincingly argue that direct ser­about the need for contracep­fertilization procedures and Notre Dame? 
the company of the senators vice to students is keeping tives. Along with seminars most methods of artificial in­and for each of them individu­pace. The one thing that stu­open to the entire student pop­semination were declared Michael Kipp ally I have a very high regard. dents and their families can ulation, free samples are given morally illicit. I find it distress­Off-campus But I have no confidence in the rely upon is that they will pay away to make them aware that ing, therefore, that a Catholic May 2, 1989 


Reflections on the effectiveness of the year of diversity 
CINDY PETRITES Accent Writer 

I 
f 19881989 has been a year of events, then 
surely this has been the 
event of the year. More 

than the Miami Game, the 1988 Presidential elec­tions, more than even the Sports Illustrated contro­versy, the Year of Cultural Diversity has defined the year at Notre Dame, touching the lives of its students, fac­ulty, administration and alumni in areas from academics to entertainment. 
"It has been a great suc­cess," said Notre Dame uni­versity president, Father Edward 'Monk' Malloy, "it went beyond what we'd en­visaged as feasible in one year." 
The Year of Cultural Diver­sity was originally the prod­uct of a special Committee on Minority Students appointed by the Provost in 1986 to ad­vise on strategies for enhanc­ing all aspects of the pres­ence of minority undergraduate and graduate students. 
After University officers studied this report, Malloy responded with a comprehen­sive plan designed "to create a Notre Dame community en­riched by increased minority presence among students, fac­ulty and adrninstration." Part of the plan was the creation of the Year of Cultural Diver­sity with its goal: "to raise the level of consciousness of all members of the Notre Dame community to the im­portance of minorities in American life and culture," through a series of ongoing pastoral, academic and social programs. 
Empowered by university funds, senior administrator Father Oliver Williams, fac­ulty, staff and students made up a Committee on The Year of Cultural Diversity and or­ganized a list of 79 speakers and events ranging from the performance of the Ballet Folkorico Azul y Oro to celebrate Mexican Indepen­dence Day, to the Hispanic Show at half-time of the Purdue football game, to the weeklong Aetna-sponsored seminar on Strength through Diversity. 
"The two single most im­portant aspects of the year were, first, the wide variety of speakers, programs, events and activities that were of­fered and, second, the fact that we began the process showing how greater diver­sity in the maker,.~ of the stu­dent body and faculty could contribute to the quality of education here at Notre Dame," remarked Malloy. 
Other highlights of the year included the Miriam Makeba and Hugh Masekela concent which attracted more than 2,000 students to listen to the South African singer and trurnpeteer. Another particu­larly successful event was the evening of prayer and song with Sister Thea Bowman in Knott Hall chapel entitled, "Bla~k Spirituality: We've Come This Far by Faith." Through this program, accor­ding to Malloy, "many stu­dents carne to appreciate black spirituality in a way they didn't know otherwise." 
Maria Fuentes and Robert Bartolo, members of the Stu­dent Planning Committee, thought the Cultural Diversity Forum at Theodore's on the theme, "Cultural Diversity: Past, Present, and Future," was particularly successful. ''A lot of things were aired out and more discussion was opened up," Fuentes ob­served. 
Another highpoint in the year was the Night of Spirituals held at Sacred Heart Church in which the Notre Dame Glee Club, Chorale, Folk Choir and role to play in irJcreasing stu­dent awareness. He cited the panel discussions on racism held in Morrissey and Stan­ford Halls as particularly im­portant because they actively involved students on a per­sonal level and felt that dorm activities would be an impor­tant future direction to pursue. 

Fuentes and Bartolo also felt the dorm events were key because they attacked the false stereotypes which exist between students and influ­ence their daily interactions. "The labels definitely contrib­ute to the sense of separation and lack of identification minority students feel," Fuentes said. 
Many agreed with Fuentes' and Bartolo's view and feel that, though the Year of Cul­tural Diversity has been a good start in increasing over­all awareness, much remains to be done. "The stereotypes have not left," said Director of Minority Student Affairs Kenneth Durgans. "It's subtle, but it exists." 
Durgans feels that the Year of Cultural Diversity was an important step, but increas­ing student awareness on a larger scale will demand more than just cultural pro­grams. "We've just hit the 


Photo courtesy of Father Oliver Williams 

Singer Miriam Makeba entertains in an evening performance 
Voices of Faith Gospel Choir surface. Now it's time to hit joined their voices to issues--not delicately--but as celebrate the anniversary of they are." Durgans also felt the death of Martin Luther that the most positive aspect King, Jr. "It was a packed of the year was the increase church," said Williams, who in minority faculty interviews added that the event and the increase in minority generated the most letters of students. This year, said Dur­any of the programs in the gans, as many as 40 or 50 new Year of Cultural Diversity. minority students joined the "So many people were Notre Dame community, and touched," he said. together with an increase in 
However, Williams ac­minority faculty interviews, knowledged that the smaller this was a significant sign of events also had an important progress. 
Durgens also felt that intro­ducing multiculturalism into the required curriculum would be an effective way to increase awareness on a broad scale. "To hit a lot of people, you have to hit the curriculum," Durgans remarked. 
One academic aspect of the Year of Cultural Diversity pursued by some profssors was the introduction of themes of cultural diversity into the Freshman Seminar classes. Malloy, who himself taught two sections of Fresh­man Seminar on the topics of cultural and religious diver­sity, found that students responded well to the topics introduced. Not only did the class encourage cultural di­versity through the choice of topics, but also in the spon­taneous response of students in the class to each other. "There is no better way to encourage diversity than to become friends," Malloy said. 
Increasing awareness through friendship is one area where clubs come into play in the Year of Cultural Diver­sity. Though many of the clubs organized activities in­dependently, several were encouraged by the Year of Cultural Diversity theme to increase the number of activi­ties they held. Said Japan Club co-president Todd Tilton, "This year we have been more active than we've ever 
been.'' International Student Organization president Peter 
Pacheco also felt that publicizing this year as the Year of Cultural Diversity 
made it easier for the clubs to reach larger numbers of the Notre Dame population. "We've made a lot of people stand back and realize that their way of doing things is not the only way." 
Though the Year of Cultural Diversity is drawing to a close, club members and other students, faculty and administration will continue the ongoing struggle of in­creasing awareness and ap­preciation of the minority contribution to campus life. The Administration will con­tinue raising funds, giving priority to minority recruit­ment of faculty and students, and according to Williams, will appoint an ongoing com­mittee to monitor progress toward multiculturalism goals. "The Year of Cultural Diversity was an important step forward," said Williams, "hut many remain to be taken." 
~--~~.---------------·-----------------------·------~~--~~-.~~------------------------------------------~~4----~--------·-----­



RES 
Scott McCann,.Suzanne Poch 
ABOVE The Marine Corps took a group of Notre Dame students flying over campus in the spring. 
RIGHT Notre Dame won its 8th national championship in football. The victory over West Virginia 34-21 in the Fiesta Bowl capped off an undefeated season, which included victory's over USC, Michigan and Miami. 
BELOW Then-Vice President George Bush visited campus less than one week 
before his victory over Gov. Michael Dukakis in the presidential election. In his . speech in Stepan Center, Bush high­lighted the "great divide" between himself 
----------------------~a~n~d~h~is~op~p=o~n~e~nt. 
~~­

etc. 
page 14 

Notre Dame student will visit Tutu in May 

JOE BUCOLO 
accent writer 

S 
orne people never grow up; some ac­tors never play in mature roles. Case in point: John Cusack. How many times is he going to graduate from high school? The answer: once more, this time in his new film, "Say Anything ..." 
John Cusack stars as Lloyd Dobler, a high school graduate hoping to be a pro­fessional kickboxer. (Sure, there's a future in that.) Of course, there's a love inter­est; this time she's Diane Court, played by lone Skye. Diane is a brilliant bookworm of a girl whose father James (John Mahoney) pushes her to settle for nothing but the best. 
The romance begins as Lloyd takes Diane to a graduation party. It's the first time that Diane has inter­acted with her peers socially, and she appreciates Lloyd's help in doing so. The love birds continue to interact and grow together until a dark se­cret from James' past begins to interfere. This conflict, coupled with Diane's upcom­ing fellowship in London, forces the two to make a decision about their future. 
The film is supposed to be a comedy. The key word there is "supposed." In reality, the film is dismal and dull. It poorly imitates teen movies of the past and makes little attempt to break new ground. 
As for the humor, it is non­existent. 
The chemistry between Llyod and Diane is sour. Cusack is too old and un­believable in his role while Skye's portrayal of Diane is more bratty than brilliant. Also, given that James is a driven, directed father, he would never permit Diane to "see" Lloyd at all. 
Ironically, the supporting characters are more interest­ing than the main ones. Mrs. Court (Lois Chiles) appears in one quick, short scene that serves only to puzzle the audi­ence. Lloyd's friends Corey (Lili Taylor) and Mike (Jason Gould) are eccentric and fun to watch. Even Lloyd's sourpuss sister (played by Cusack's real life sister, Joan) is enjoyable. 
These characters are inter­esting, real, and ignored. Most of Lloyd's friends are highly visible at the movie's start. However, either the producers ran out of money or just plain forgot about them, because they are vir­tually non-existent in the film's second half. Even worse is the fact that Mrs. Court's presence in the film is unnecessary and unexplained. 
The film contains one noteworthy sign of the times. While attending the gradua­tion party, Lloyd assumes the role of Key Master. He greets guests as they enter and takes their car keys. As guests leave, Lloyd deter­mines if they are in a condi-
SARAH VOIGT expressing his desire to learn How did Schadek make the Accent Writer more about apartheid. travel arrangements to visit Schadek wrote the letter one of the most politically 
M 
completely on his own initia­volatile countries in the any students tive. He explains, "I wanted world? That answer is a little read articles and to go one step beyond reading more complicated. Schadek editorials that and being informed. The let­applied for a Visa so that he analyze the jus­ter was an attempt to do could go to South Africa in tice of the apar­that." March of 1988. His Visa was theid government in South He continues, "I wanted to denied without explanation. Africa. Some of them develop speak to him (Archbishop strong convictions about the Tutu) about his views on When Schadek was in Lon­issue and express their moral sanctions. As a church repre­don last semester he reap­outrage through discussions sentative he's been a very ef­plied for a Visa through the and demonstrations on fective spokesperson for South African Embassy in campus. One student will take non-violent means to end 
London. When he still not had 

his curiosity about the anti­apartheid." 
recieved his Visa last month 

apartheid movement and his What does Schadek hope to he almost gave up hope. 
concern for the black South gain from his brief two week "Then I opened my mailbox Africans one step further this stay in South Africa? "I hope 
two weeks ago and the Visa summer. to become a more effective was there. I couldn't believe 

Mike Schadek, a junior advocate and spokesperson it," said Schadek. Government major, will visit for divestment." 
"I assume that I had so 

Capetown, South Africa for Schadek, a regular View­much trouble because the two weeks in May to stay at point columnist and the chair­South African government Archbishop Tutu's court. person for the College 
finds it suspicious that an 

Schadek will serve as a vo­Democrats, hopes to share his American student wants to luntary staff member. "I will first hand experience with spend time with Archbishop be watching and witnessing apartheid with other students Tutu." how the Archbishop and his when he gets back to campusworkers are approaching a next fall. The Administration, Grace non-violent response to apar­"The topic of apartheid, un­Hall, Student Government, theid." fortunately is somewhat like and the Office of Campus 
How did Schadek get in­a fad. It is only periodically Ministry all contributed vited to the court of an indi­in the news so people are only money to pay for Schadek's vidual that the South African occasionally confronted with $1600 airfare. "The fact that government despises for his the situation in South Africa. these groups have sponsered 
non-violent assault against However, it is one of the me in this venture says a lot apartheid? The answer is great tragedies of our time about them. They have helped simple. Schadek wrote a one because its evils go on every me follow through on this op­page letter to the archbishop day." portunity of a lifetime." 
•

review 
but 'Say Anything...' 
tion to drive and, if not, he tential. The minor characters of the plotline, that involving 
drives them home. This so­are not developed enough and James, arrives too late into cially conscious scene is one the main characters are un­the film to save it. In short, 
of the movie's only redeeming believable. All of the film's see anything but "Say Anyth­qualities. humor is present in the film's 
ing..." 

"Say Anything ..." is a per-30 second TV advertisement. fect of unrealized the •~•-•~··•-·~ "'~-··~.. 
w ---~--------~-------------------~----------~------, 
etc.

Friday, May 5, 1989 page 15 
For God, country and Notre Dame ?• 

of the visible universe, looking for something com­mensurate to their capacity to wonder. 
Is there nothing wonderful about God, country, or Notre Dame? To find out that there is woudn't surprise me, though you may feel I'm flying off toward a different orbit when I say that the great adventure of them all is love--and love songs, you may have noticed, are often ex­travagant with imagery bor­rowed from the astonishing things man has seen as a hitchhiker in the cosmos. 
It's not easy to write poetry without rhyme, or play tennis without a net. It's not possible to be a lover moping by your­self in a vacuum. That's why we need a religion, a country, and an affiliation to a com­munity like a club, lodge, or school. 
The Church, which serves as a frame to the portrait, of the Artist as a young God, enjoys only a reflected glory, which Christ confers upon it, to give it dignity and authen­ticity. But as Faulkner wrote, at the dingdong of doom, mankind will prevail, and Kil­roy will be there, and the Church will be there after him, to read the Gospel at Kilroy's funeral. 
I'm sorry for the Church's sins, politics, tunnel-vision, and foot-dragging, and for the flawed humanity of its leaders. The Church and its human element are in con­stant need for forgiveness from God and man alike, but would not the world be poorer without the Church's kind of truth? Oddly enough the Church often gives us the truth we use when we set out to prove that the Church is wrong. Doesn't the Church bring sinners in need of redemption face to face with something commensurate with their capacity for love? 
Doesn't this country of ours 
bring Americans face to face with something commen­surate with their capacity of hope? Maybe it's hard--if you're the member of a minority group--to believe in hope. The poverty among us is a scandal, and the drugs are a tragedy, but we have an American dream, and hope is the thing dreams are made of. "I hear America singing-the varied carols I hear," wrote Whitman. 
Even when Lincoln died, the "sweetest, wisest soul of all my days and land," the carols continued. "I saw the battle corpses ... and the white skeletons of young men... the debris of all the slain soldiers of the war...The living remain'd and suffer'd ..., and the mot­her suffer'dt'And the wife and the child ..." During the Viet­nam era, I used to read this Civil War poem, and under­stood it as an elegy, and not as a dirge for a country whose dream has died. 
Notre Dame's miracle is not a miracle that Sorin, Rockne, or the C.S.C.'s can take credit for. What good would the halls of ivy be if it were not for the students coming here like an army every year, from homes where love does not hide its face, and faith in God is alive and strong? Notre Dame is the miracle that Sorin, Rockne, and the rest are in debt for, to parents who cared enough to give their kids the very best. 
Students come here to live and learn with other students as privileged and blessed as themselves. In the exchange of friendships that goes on, 
they learn to have faith in themselves and in their own kind of goodness. Notre Dame is far from perfect, but stu­dents remember it as a kinder, gentler place than the real world is, where the prevailing law is the survival of the fittest. 
God, country, and Notre Dame isn't suitable only as a cheer at a pep rally, though the cynics may tell you that. Don't feel brain-washed if the mention of God, country, and Notre Dame fit together in your mind like faith, hope, and love. Don't feel that you've wasted your youth, if you leave here believing faith, hope, and love are the greatest lessons taught at Notre Dame; and that of these three, love is the greatest. 
U 
nless you say it fast, the phrase, "God, Country, and Notre Dame," seems to end anti-climactically. It's as though you were to say, "The Father, the Son, and John Paul 11"--the Pope would be the first to tell you he doesn't 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
belong in a lineup with the Persons of the Trinity. To the disgust of his critics, the loyal Domer will declare his alle­giance to his Alma Mater as though it were one of the cir­cling stars he must set his course by as he starts out on the journey lasting a lifetime in the direction, he hopes, of the Enchanted Isles. 
Why should any of the sons and daughters of the morning burden themselves with the idea of God as He is pre­sented in the Creeds of the Church, or on the pages of the King James Bible? Why should they take any pride in being patriots of a country that has a lengthening track record of crimes against humanity that began with the mistreatment of the Indians and the introduction of slavery? Why should they take seriously this Coney Is­land of the mind, this Dis­neyland of the spirit that we call Notre Dame. 
On the final page of Gats by, Fitzgerald wrote, "For a transitory enchanted moment, man must have held his breath in the presence of this continent. .. face to face for the last time in history with something commensurate to his capacity to wonder." 
You could define human beings as creatures endowed with a matchless capacity for infinite wonder. Man must have held his breath in the presence of this unspoiled continent. But was unspoiled America, the new Eden, really "the last and greatest of all human dreams?'' Fin­ding that he had no more worlds left to conquer, no new frontiers to reach, didn't man set his sights on the distant galaxies, which he hopes to explore as a space-traveller? Following the pathway of the sun in its westward course, adventurers have explored the planet until they finally overtook the sun rising out of the east to begin its new day. 
So, in further search for adventure, they began the excursions to the tops of high mountains, and to the floors of the seven seas. Curiosity will always keep human beings restless to become sight-seers discovering the worlds that lie on the far side 

EXAM SPECIAL -FREE COFFEE Limited Issue of Plastic Resuable Coffee Cups $.25 
May 5,6,7,8,9, 10,11, 12, 1989 
7:00 p.m. until closing 
Huddle Pit (library) 
Provided by University Food Services 
___...

and Maxwell ou 
---~---~----~--­
-------------------------------------·--­
page 16 The Observer Friday, May 5, 1989 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHice, 314laFortune. and from 12:30 until3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available' PANDORA'S BOOK 
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 
Wordprocesslng-Typing 272-8827 
RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­vice anytime at 299-0063. 
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS VOCATION COUNSELING lor the ONE­YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and other ministry opportunities. Contact: FR. JOHN CONLEY. CSC BOX 541 NOTRE DAME 239-6385 
TYPING-I st drafts provided. 233-1485. 2 blks. from campus. 
HOUSESITTERS AVAILABLE FOR 89­90 Adult, responsible, experienced. Fac­ulty references. Mark or Kristin 287-9616 

' LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: Wallet in Cushing Aud. on Mon ¥.!4 11 :OOam. PLEASE call2702 if you have ~-1 need my ID's and key! 

LOST...Help a blind woman see again I lost my blue framed glasses in a blue case Fri n~e! Please call Tracy X3199 
FOUND: brown leather jacket in soul dining hall-to claim call x3528 with description. 

LOST AFTER THE MCA TS IN 303 CUs­HING, WESTBEND TIMER. PLEASE CALL GUY AT 283-4586. 
FOUND: AT BOOKSTORE ON FRIDAY, ONE BASKETBALL JERSEY. CALLJ.C. AT 1001 TO IDENTIFY 
LOST: Red CeBe Windbreaker at Recess Fri. Night. Please call Mike at x1562. 
LOST: SR FORMAL 35MM NIKON, HAS ALL MY PIX. PLEASE CALL MARY ANNE 2595. 

LOST: BLACK & GOLD WATCH AT SMC AN TOSTAL PICNIC. A SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. CALL 284-4319. 
Lost AT SENIOR FORMAL: men's tuxedo jacket. Please call Jim at # 271­9812! THANKS! 
FOUND: Hacky Sack by STEPAN courts Tues ¥.!4. ff it's yours. call 1501 
LOST: BROWN LEATHER JACKET AT SHENANIGAN'S. $$REWARD CALL KEVIN 1179 
LOST: Black leather jacket. Reward it found. Call 4807 
FOR RENT 

FOUR FLAGS FARM BED AND BREAKFAST CONVENIENTLY LO­CATED 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVITIES. 616-471­5711. 
Moving to NYC? Lg 1 bdrm. apt. for rent Aug. 1. Good midtown loc. AC, OW & lg closets. Per­fect for share. Call Betsy or Jackie. (212) 582-4250. 
SUMMER APARTMENT IN TURTLE CREEK. ONE ROOMMATE OR TWO SUBLETTERS NEEDED. CALL 284­4367 STACY OR JAN ENE AFTER 8 PM. 
2 BEDROOM HOUSE.·on ND Ave also FURNISHED ROOMS near ND:$120 mo 
272-6306 
2 HOUSES FOR RENT 89-90 SCHOOL YEAR. SAFE NEIGHBORHOODS. FOR MORE INFO, CALL CHUCK GLORE 232-1n&. 
Sub-Leasing 2 Bdrm Apt for Summer At Turtle Creek Call Paul1<en 272-3894 

LIVE OFF CAMPUS 2 bedroom fur­nished home for 1989-9 Safe & con­venient area. Next to other NO rentals. Private parking, large yard, basket ball court. Call Bruce: 288-5653 or 234-3831 
NEED AN APT FOR SUMMER? I HAVE ONE FURNISHED. CALL 2598. CHEAPI 
NEED HOUSE FOR FALL? FURN. 3 BD., CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 289­8539 
SUMMER SCHOOL SPECIAL-NOTRE DAME AVE., $35WK PLUS SHARE OF ELEC., FURNISHED. 259-7801 OR 255­5852. 
WANTED 

WANTED: Three piece cushion couch in rei. good cond. call x4003 
Need RIDE to DC AREA 521 Mary 3745 
AGENTS NEEDED! $350.00 PER DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1­315-733-6063 EXTENSION P-2382. 
ROOMMATE WANTED FOR SUM­MERSCHOOL ALREADY HAVE TURT. CREEK LEASE CALL X1169 FOR INFO 
Need Ride to DC AREA 522, Mary·3745. 
WANTED:10 SPEED BIKE.272-6306 
FOR SALE 
LOFT-$45 GREY CARPET,LIKE NEW,8'x10'-$60 STEREO CABINET-$10 4 DRAWER CHEST-$15 
BLACK-WHITE RECLINER-$25 X3201 
LOT FOR SALE: Yogi Bear-Plymouth, IN. See all Notre Dame Games, Camping at its best! Join Coast to Coast. 219-522­3821 
BIG DISCOUNTS ON IBM PRODUCTS NO Computer Store 239-74n 
Panasonic Mtn Bike. Like New I Call Tom. 277-0725 
'80 Toyota Corolla air.AMFM 72.000 miles, excellent condition.288-8130 
LIVING AT TURTLE CREEK NEXT YR? 1YR.OLD BED,$100; 3-DRAWER SET,$35 CALL JULIE# 272-2370 
WATERBED FOR SALE...queen size in­cludes heater, backboard, and five year warranty ... 8 mths old $120 call277-4416 
'76 GRAND PRIX-AIR, CRUISE, PS, PB, EXCELLENT RUNNING COND. VERY RELIABLE. TRY IT OUTII X3201 $650 
CARPET PLUSH TEXTURED BROWN, LIKE NEW! FITS ANY SINGLE-$80 STEREO PANASONIC CAS&RECEIVEMURNTABLE IN ONE-SPEAKERS INCL.-$75 X3201 
KEGERATOR FOR SALE SELL to BEST OFFER full size wt hoses,C02 call 287­3024. 
FOR SALE: Water Bed, Small Fridge, Entertainment Center. TOM, 287-5758 
CAR TOP LUGGAGE CARRIER. $65. 239-5419. 
60 wt. Sony receiver bought new 8 mos ago. Best offer. Call Jeff-1474 
Brand new ELECTRONIC BATTLESHIP game for sale. Paid $45, asking $20 call Jana 258-0129 
Apartment fum~ure clearance sale! 287­3024 
f 979 VW Rabbit. Pertect student car call 234-6497 
LARGE FRIDGE 12 SPEED ALLAN# 3111 
................................................................ 
,.
L TICKETS 
I need 5 graduation tix-<:all Tom 3155 
or 3157 
ATTN SRSI Need 3 grad tix for my grandparents coming from SEATTLE! Will pay $$$-Call Michelle X3820 
I NEED GRAD TIX! GRANDPARENTS COMIN FROM PUERTO RICO, 1-3 NEEDED!IIIIII CALL FRED 272-4474 
NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS 2n­0593 
I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS! CALL ROBERT 271-8323 
HELP!!! I need graduation tickets and have extra $$$. Want to trade? Call x3613 and leave a message. 
PLANE TICKET TO PHILADELPHIA MAY 12 $75. 239-6208 (DAYS) 287­1243 (NIGHTS). 
WILL PAY FOR GRAD TIX. CALL 2533. 
PERSONALS 
Mike, good luck on your finals. You are an aero-soc god so don't worry, be hap­py. 
hlag 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1~3-8373. 
HOPING TO ADOPT We're a happily married, financially secure couple with a beautHul home and lots of love to ahara with a much­wanted baby. II you are pregnant and considering edoptlon, please call ua. Expenses paid. Confidential, legal. Please cell Deborah and David collect day or night at 312-935-4088. 

ATTENTION: ANYONE LIVING IN NYC AREA NEED THINGS SHIPPED HOME? CALL JOHN AT 271-8704 OR 283-1789 (AFTER 10:00PM) 
GO HOMEI NEED A VEHICLE? GREAT VAN AND TRUCK PRICES-ONE WAYS STILL AVAIL. CALL X1143 FOR INFO. 
CHAMPIONS Ia coming soon to the NO Bookstore. Don't leave lor home without It! 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
FIRST TIME AT SAINT MARY'S ALAN SAYE & THE MCNEILS FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1989 HAGGAR TERRACE FREE FOOD 5:3G-7:30 SPONSORED BY SMC CLASS OF '92. ALL ARE WELCOME. 
SKYDIVING LAST CHANCE TO TRY CALL DEAN 287-3024 
NEED RIDE TO SOUTH FLORIDA 
Help. Help. Help. I need a ride to Fort Lauderdale after exam week. Call Will at 283-2089 if you have space. 
Heh LIZ SWEENEY! I hopa you're feeling batter honey. Good luck on finals and don't forget to take all your drugs. 
MOTORCYCLE FOR SALE Honda NightHawk 450cc Awesome cruiser' As­king Under $400 call 287-5264 ask for Brian 
WHAT'UP DOGS? YOU KNOTT GIRLS ARE AWESOME ... NOT!!!!II GOOD LUCK ON FINALS! 
-DEB'S MATT 
DEBRA-I'LL MISS YOUIII YOU'RE THE BEST! LOVE, MATT 
SO CAL TRUCK LOADING 5112 STEPAN 2-5 

ANNE GALEHOUSE GOOD LUCK NEXT SEMESTER IN ROMEIII WE'LL MISS YOU! LOVE· YOUR ROOMMATES 
BOSTON SUMMER APARTMENT, 1 BDRM., AVAILABLE WITH 2 SMC GRADS. JUNE TO SEPT. CALL KATHY 617-262-5001. 
Need one graduation ticket. Call Rosemary # 2780 
SCRUBS! SCRUBS! SCRUBS! Jade Green Tops & Bottoms low Prices Call Tammy 284-5134 or Kathy 284-4332 
Jackie K. I've had "The time of my life" and I owe ~ all to you. Dancing won't be the same without you. I'll miss you. Good luck and God bless. I love you. 
Harry 

Robin, Of course it's me. Who else would it be? Good Luckl -Beasley and A3 of Fall'87 
PHILADELPHIA SOUTH JERSEY, S.E. PENNA. I NEED A RIDE(WITH STUFF) CALL DAVE 2258 
FRESHMEN 
FRESHMEN 

FRESHMENII Class Mass this SATURDAY at 4:00PM at the Grotto with Fr. Monk Malloy Rain? Go to StanforOI<eenan Chapel 
CHIP SHAIA: All the members of the op­posite sex long for a place in your heart. Remember us when you are gone. -One of your many secret admirers. 

MAZIE Thanks lor making my lour years hare batter than I could have ever Imagined. Hang In there next weeki We're going to do awesome. 
Love, Geno 

PARTY BABES Thanks lor hanging out with us. We'd have been totally lost on the dan­cefloor without you guys. We all love you lots. 
THE GUYS IN 305 
MOM AND DAD Thanks lor all you've done lor me and my roommates these past years. The football weekends and basketbal games were too much fun. Can't walt 
to see you lor gred. Love Genolll 
To the Prop Woman: Thanks for every­thing you've done this semester--see you this summer. Love, the Priest 
Do you have a bike to sell? I'm interested! Call Laura x2811. 
Hllll, HOW ARE YOOOU ? We just wanted to thank you guys for a wonderiul year. Next year will be even better I Have a great summer and we'll be thinking of you while we're away. LOVE, Megan & Lynn 
April30, 1989 207 Campus View "I think God put a spanish fly in my body!" SMA 
BANDS WANTED to play Senior Dis­orientation Week Picnic AUG. 28 If inter­ested call Dianna 2639 
Terr. AM, Nancy, Liesl, Mary·-HOLA FROM MEXICO!! Even tho' I'm having a great time, I think about you all a lot. Can't wait for senior yearlll 
Love, Carrie "LE" Yauch 
UVA Are you going to UVa next year? Need a roommate? I am and do. Chris 288-1353 
Walter Dolhare: It's too bad that you don't read the personals because now you'll never know how madly in • "I am with you. Those fireworks are going to be deadly Ill 
Marie: Have a great time in London! I'm go to miss you tremendously! In honor of your leaving, I'm giving up carmel apples after football games! Bon Voyage Ill 
Me 
One roommate needed for six man house for next year. Will have own bedroom. Contact Rick or Mike at x3305. 
P-Kin, This has been the best year of my life. I am going to miss you so much next year, but I promise that I'll be there for you. I Love You. I always will. T-Bear 
NEED A RIDE TO PITTSBURGH? I'm leaving after exams on Friday or Sat­urday. Call x4826 or x4828 and leave a message. 
Most Honorable Anne Marie Finch, To my favorite JD (to be): You're a won­dertul person and a great friend! Thanks for sharing the good times (and the many bad ones) with me. Good luck in your future I 
Love, BRL 
Thank you St. Jude. 
To my lying maniac wierdo, I'll miss you too Perche credo che io ti ami I 
Miss C. 
L(H)AURA--Think of us as you enjoy co­ed dorms, no parietals, and all that Ger­man beer. Love Pita, Hisa and Hoolie. 
Chester (Jew) for how to are you? Thanks for making this year so great. See you in the summer! Love, Chester too. 
Anne S. thanks for always being such a good friend. I'll miss youl Love, KB 
Hi babyl You are the greatest. Good luck this summer-1'11 miss youl Love Always and Forever Yours, Sunshine 
TIFFANY, Good luck in LONDON!!! Don't spend all your time in the PUBS! Have a mce day!!-Chris 
Hey, SHEA! Good luck in CANADA!! -Chris 
KATE, ERWIN, & SKIPPER, HAVE A GREAT SUMMERII 
Love, Chris 
Joe, Thanks for an awesome year. I love you, BBE, Kelley 
Farewell to the HOLY FOUR! Colleen, Muffy. Nikie, and Meg The world will never be the samel Neither will South Bend! 
CCLEARANCE--CLEARANCE-­CLEARANCE Must sell-BOOKSTORE B-BALL T'S 
ONLY $5 'WHERE THE SUN DOESN'T SHINE" call # 3281, # 3283 229 keena 
Sorry 'Cole you owe us both a good tag team rip session 
we luv u ... 
KeC 

p.s. really, your hair looks fine 
To The Stanford Studs Spring Break was Great Senior Week will be better God Bless & Good Luck "Keep the Faith" See You at Graduation 
DOYLE AND HEFF HEY, HEY, HEY! JUST WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW THAT IT HAS BEEN GREAT ROOMING WITH YOU THIS YEAR. WE HAVE SOME GREAT MEMORIES FROM THIS YEAR: AESTA BOWL("WHERE IS THAT KEY?"), CHRISTMAS FORMAL (WELL, SOME OF US DON'T HAVE ANY MEMORIES OF THAT NIGHT), 
THE VICTORY PARTY(WHERE IS 
EVERYONE AND WHY AM I 
WASHING TISA'S DISHES?), AND 
MANY MORE. DOYLE, YOU'RE A 
SMOOZ AND HEFF, YOU'RE A 
LITTLE KID AT HEART, AND THAT 
WHY IT HAS BEEN SUCH A GREAT 
YEAR. BEST OF LUCK IN ALL 
YOU DO. IT WON'T BE THE SAME 
WITHOUT YOU NEXT YEAR. 
GOOD LUCK ALWAYS! 
YOUR ROOMIE, "LINK" BREZ 

DON'T WORRY, HEFF, WE'LL COME 
VISIT YOU NEXT YEAR I 
JUKE Wishing you the best of luck next year. Remember, no matter where you go, you'll never get away from us, Paulll Love you lots! Mari.a,Debby Monty,Boog, Chris,Maurine,Eileen, Christy, and Mic­helle. 
ROOM 337 WALSH You guys were awesome this year!! Love you guys!! Your roommie,Maria 
Dimby Who are you kidding? I'll alway 

be one step ahead of you. Although all 
truth was left out, I appreciat getting my 
name in print. Thanks 
Dave McDonald 

Joey Dimberio (A.K.A "Cupcake") 
I heard you and Susan are really 
serious. Please don't do it, break the en­
gagement! You know I want you more 
than she ever could! 
Guess Who? 

Beej, Scoots, Stew. Mibs, Schub, E.C.• Soda, Wheat & Woody Good luck & Thanks for everything! I am going to miss you guys!! WOG 
Robin Given's Academy 
1. Stacie "Rude A " Bailey 2. Yolanda "Doo-Doo" Caroll 3. Larae "Is she really 
a v· 
Simpson 

4. Lanette "Gremlin" Dumas 5. Michelle's 
Steele "Spacklin" Dishonorable Mention: Randy "Roundie" Ross 
Cute as a Button; Only nine days til 22! Good Luck on finals I know you'll do well I LOVE YOU 
Hey L.A. W finally a personal for you. where's the wu wu man? I don't mind when it's hot... uh-oh... what about vail?? thanx for a great year! shaka! JLF. 
Stew, Beej, Scoots, Schub-sorry that the time we partied together I passed out-but it was no indica!-ion of how much fun I have with you guys. Congratulations, Good Luck, and I will miss you. Love, A.B. 
JEN SLOZAR HAPPY BIRTHDAY! bet 
you thought you weren't going to get one. 
Re-read on the 25th. 
love, Heather 

MARY DITTRICH Happy Birthday a couple months early. We've been through a lot this year. Thanks for every­thing I You're the greatest I Love You Luv, H 
what do sluts.hics,smokes,chiqurtas dd.scorign,ape man,tex,the man,hick lizard,sheb,fb hou,absolut,chicugo. stlou,sthou,plystr,strippers,pirate pranks,frnknstn.syrs,motels,dghou.m dry,fbgames,bridgets,bridges.azars, dennys,pitchers,chichis.dunes,dudes 
/r&fake ids have, in common?theyall made 1 un4gtble lr.yriiLYALL!LVLUSH 
To all you Lewisites and Cavanaugh 
The Donny Osmond Fan Club Join now He's so sexy 
Farley look out.. The quint is going to put the roof on fire next year! ANDI, MOLLY, MARY. THERESA AND COYLAI 
ANNE GALEHOUSE HAVE A BLAST IN ROME NEXT SE­MESTER! WE'LL MISS YOUII! DON'T FORGET YOUR DORITOS. LOVE, BETH, SARA AND TASH. 
TO THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE (you know who you are) I've longed for you for what seems like an enternity. I've seen you often at the salad ba but nerves prevented me from saying hello. The weight I've shed has added immensely to my confidence. Now I feel like I'm man enough to approach you-see you soon! Love, Dave McDonald 
BUSCH sign for sale,best offer 2448 
Gracias Dios y St. Judas! JMS 
Katie & Jeff: Good luck on finals! Thanks for all the moral suport; you guys are the greatest! I I'm gonna miss having you two around next year ... Love & Prayers! Janette 
Mea, This past week has been great. I'm really glad I met you. Too bad ~ was so late in the year. Let's make the best of the rest of the year. There's going to be severe withdrawal symptoms over the summer Let's pick up next year where we leave off. 
Love, 
Brian 
AGGIE 

Agnes Silver Weinberg the pell-mell teradactyl W of the Virgin Mary HOUSEPLANT and ever-so-lucky roommate for one year of 
Jell 

The other half of the Virgin Mary (aha...which half is which?) 
HAPPY 21at BIRTHDAY 
Hey, thanks for a great year, wish I coulda 
been there ... l wanna know What are YOU 
doing heeeeeere? 

Love Ya!!! 
----Jeffish 
HIAg 
HIAg 
HIAg 
HIAg 
HIAg 

These are all the Hi Ags for finals week, for everyone who would miss them. 
Old Hogs Never Die 
They Just Pork Away 
Frank Pastor Who has wound up in the personals before.. Happy Birthday Mr. Sports Wednesday -TK 
FELIX. I LOVE THOSE LEGS! LUV, YOUR TEDDY BEAR 
JAMES MCKENNA I've watched you from afar: now I'd to get closer' A Secret Admirer 
KELLY JURAS, 
Good luck with Graduation! 
Joe 
TO KENDRA--Congratulations. Pruden­tial will never be the same!! I will miss you --John 
Catherine--London? Why London? Good Luck next semester! I love you --JAB 
F-THANK YOU FOR BEING EVERY­THING I COULD ASK FOR IN A FRIEND. I KNOW THAT I HAVE NEVER LOVED YOU AS MUCH AS I LOVE YOU TODAY. LOVE ALWAYS, B 
WHO IS THE GIRL AT THE BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL GAME WEARING HER SLIPPERS!!!!!! 
TRACY LOWERY and 
AGNES PETERSON I'm really going to miss you two wild women. You've given me some great memories to hold onto & I couldn't have mede It through the year wi:J youl!l! Thankslll! 
ANGIE BELLNCA U R the best room M8 I could have ever hed & a G8 best lrtend!Thanks 4 always being there! Wake up cells 4 next yr? I'll miss you! 
GINA PEREZ UR a goddessI Thanks lor being Ul 
HEY TomDaveJimlisaDonnaJenErinJill (& others at Lewis) SeanRoy&Sarah· THANX for putt1ng up with me all year. Esp. Lisa&Donna for CHEERING ME UP! Have a great summer 
ALL OF YOU!! Mark 
ATTENTION To the chivalrous gentleman who helped me with my groceries in front of Flanner in Tuesday: I didn't get your name. but I want to thank you again. You have res­tored my faith in men. Thank you. 
The Blond Damsel in Distress from Farley 
YOGURT WENCH 
DEXTER & SINISTER-keep your ear to the ground on Saturday' 
Calcutta Rain is conducting an intense search for a drummer for next year. We're pushing originality & style Influences should include Peart, Bruford or some other excellent dude. Call Brian(3893) or Don(3068) today!! Calcutta Rain 
To Becky E• , the voluptuous dumb blond Did you accidently shave someth­ing off in the shower? No matter--we will miss you anyway. Good Luck at Colgate. Love, Your worshiping throng. 
Storen. take off, you knobl From all the first floor hoseheads, See ya, eh. 
hi jeff 
CLASS OF '89: 
THANKS FOR THE YEAR FOLKS; YOU'VE BEEN SUPER! KNOCK 'EM DEAD OUT THERE IN THE "REAL WORLD". 
LOVE VA, KATIE "CAREER" 
SCAPPIEST 2-SOUTH QUOTES OF THE YR. 1. SUZANNE BROWN, ARE YOU SOBER? 2. EXCUSE ME, I HAVE TO GO CUP MY 
TOENAILS. 
3. 
I WANT A PICTURE OF ME AND MY 

BIG SISTER MELISSA. OOPS! SHE'S PASSED OUT... 

4. 
I'LL ONLY HAVE 2 BEERS. I SWEAR. WELL, MAYBE 3 

5. 
OH MY GOD, R-6. A""HOLE IS AN AFFECTIONATE TERM. 7. ASAKO'S F­BACKI 8. SERIOUSLY-I GAVE UP DRINKING 


YEAH RIGHT, BENNETT. 
9. NOI YOU MAY NOT POSSESS ME. 10 CAPITAL F,G,D,P,L 11.1 WANNABE A DEN MOTHER. 12.SCHMOO, SCHMOO. GET A CLUE 13.YOU'RE THE BEST, ROSI. 14.MARGARITA, ASK THE KEEBLER ELF 
HOW HE GOT THE BUTTERY TASTE IN THOSE TOWN HOUSE CRACKERS. L'IL SPROUT & HIS GOLDEN NIBLETS 
15.1 SEE A FOOTBALL TEAM, BOTH OFFENSE AND DEFENSE. 
Mike-Thanks for a great 8 weeks. Prom­ise me you'll LIGHT MY FIRE again in the fall. Love, C 
see PERSONALS I 20 


Friday, May 5, 1989 The Observer page 17 
ND leads MCC honor roll 
Notre Dame's members of the 1988-89 MCC Academic Honor Roll: 
Baseball Erik Madsen, Jr., Pre-Professional Dan Peltier, Jr., Accounting James Sass, Gr., MSA 
Women's Basketball Lisa Kuhns, Sr., American Studies Sara Liebscher, So., Arts and Letters Annie Schwartz, Jr., Psychology 
Men's Cross Country William Borgos, So., Pre­Professional Kevin Buhrfiend, So., Business Robert Fern, Jr., Biology Dan Garrett, Gr., MSA Chris Lucey, Sr., English Lit. Tom Macken, Jr., Biology Rick Mulvey, Gr., MBA Mike Rogan, Jr., Psychology 
Women's Cross Country Susan Kammer, So., Pre­Professional Wendy Murray, Jr., Mathema­tics Theresa Rice, Sr., Modern Lan­guages Suzanne VonLuhrte, So., Pre­Professional 
Men's Golf Terry Berland, Jr., Mathema­tics 
W11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 llllllllllllllllllllll!h::;,~~~~~~mm~i't'l!.l:~m~m"·'-"~i!l.'m=~-~-llllllllllllilllllllll!l.'mlllllll!lllillllllllllllllilllllllllllliliJII 
1

I 7 "" 7 ' ~ IIJ-{anny 19tli
= • '11..1. • =~ r r. 
= = ~
IoPENINGs sTILL AVAILABLE II tBirtfu{ay 
~ fOR THE COMING YEAR! ~ I
!sPEND oNE YEAR TEACHING !1 Wendy 


~ ENGLISH IN KYOTO, JAPANi ~ ~ SEE Father Graham McDonnell ~I § ON § t ~ Wednesday 10 May ~ ~ • 
~ Thursday 11 May ~ ~ ~ at the Center for Social Concerns § ~1 ~ Contact Mary Ann Roemer 2.39-7949 ~ ~~ 
• 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111. §):::$:"$».~'®\%.0:::..'®~~~"<~:\\tl,'~~---------· 
'lRSAt W~LL . e'
Best Taste! 

CIIIIDE·AIBIC&II mTAIUIT 
6 -Aulhentlo 8MChuaft end Hunen Tn.. ' BeSbnucml OJMD 7 days
A Mcn-'thUft.ll~ am to 10 pm. Fri..-&L 11~ am to l1 pm' Sun. &Holidan 11~ am to 10 pm 
only $4.95 AL ch tartin at $3 45 
(Regular $7 25) ' un es S 9 -----•
· · Dinn tartin• at Cl"A 95
Fned Gold Honey Chickeot ers S 9 ------~. with this coupon Ba1Qu6t.Rooma "'•llllble for up to 200 
until Feb. 28,1989 130 Dixie Hwy., Bosalcmd (..: tolaDolcaU"alaD) 
GRAND OPENING AT 

MATEO'S PLAYING FIELD 
Men's Soccr Dave Augustyn, Jr., Accounting 
Softball Terri Proksch, Sr., Architecture Mary Verardi, So., Pre­Professional Kathryn Vernetti, So., Arts and Letters 
Swimming and Diving Tanya Kne, Sr., Biology Kay Richter, Jr., Pre-Professional Amy Tri, So., Business Thomas Penn, Jr., Economics 
Brian Rini, So., Professional David Thoman, Jr., Professional  Pre-Pre­ 
Tennis  

Walter Dolhare, Jr., Marketing Tim Kalbas, So., Business Dave Reiter, Sr., Government Ryan Wenger, So., Pre­Professional Cathy Bradshaw, So., Pre­Professional Anne-Marie Dega, So., Pre­Professional Alice Lohrer, Jr., Marketing Patricia O'Byrne, Jr., Econom­ics Maura Weidner, Jr., English Lit. 
Irish baseball hosts tourney 
NO tries to earn first berth in NCAA playoffs since 1970 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
Not many people will say that the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference is the cream of the col­legiate baseball crop, but cer­tain MCC players have been catching national attention recently. 
There is Evansville's Andy Benes, the number-one pick last year in last June's draft. Benes, pitching for San Diego's class AA affiliate in Wichita, Kan., has four wins and a 0.44 ERA with 55 strikeouts in the early going of his first minor league season. 
Then there is Notre Dame's Dan Peltier, who will be drafted this June. Peltier has a .458 batting average and must decide whether or not to skip his senior year at Notre Dame and pursue a professional career one year early. 
There are other notables. 
Notre Dame's Pat Pesavento 
and James Sass will most likely 
CLUB DANJEa§
t sest PnG ··· Lunch special only $3.45 
salutes
t Includes· 
~ D . · 
1 1 

JOE SULLIVAN 
· a1 Ysoup 2 Egg Roll
t 3. F · d A" 
one ofits finest 
. ne 1ce

t4 One E t · n ree members. Thanks 
272-737'6 
for everything joe and good luck! 

Alex, Nick, Chris, Bill &john 
{May 10} 
n. "om an f ('f)-f 
:JVLI u :uuu 
Poppy and Xjm 

be drafted, and Xavier's Scott Gordon, who can perform both at the plate and on the mound, has a shot. 
In this year's MCC playoffs on May 17-20, Notre Dame (37­12-1, 11-5 in the MCC East) will be looking to win the tourna­ment and receive a bid to the NCAA playoffs. If the Irish are successful, it will be the first time that they have reached the NCAAs since 1970. 
Notre Dame will receive stiff competition from the likes of Eastern Division rival Detroit and Western Division power Evansville. Detroit is currently 19-16, but 10-4 and in first place in the MCC East. The Titans also have won seven of their last eight games. Evansville, which plays the toughest schedule in the conference, is 21-23 overall, 6-2 and in first place in the less competitive MCC West. 
Notre Dame, according to Xavier Head Coach Larry Red­wine, is the "premier team" in the conference. That does not mean that the Irish will be seeded first in the playoffs, however, as they are currently in second place in the East 
Notre Dame Head Coach Pat Murphy claims his troops will beat Detroit in the clutch, and that prediction will come to the front this weekend when the Irish play four games against the Titans at Detroit. Last time the two teams met at Coveleski, the Titans took three of four from the Irish. 
The Irish lead the MCC in both hitting and pitching. Detroit and Evansville are both 37 points off the pace of Notre Dame's .326 team batting average, and no team comes close to the 3.72 team ERA of the Irish . 
Since the playoffs will be taking place during senior week, seniors will be admitted for $1 on Wednesday, May 17. A tournament pass, which gets the owner into all the games, can be purchased for $8. At reg­ular prices, each game will cost $3 for adults and $2 for students and persons under 16 years. 
Tickets will go on sale at the 
Notre Dame ticket office and 
the Coveleski Stadium box of­
fice starting next week. 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
A conference tournament victory means a trip to the NCAA Tournament. Senior Week just won't be fulfilled without a trip to Coveleski to watch Pat Murphy's Irish. 
Oh, and by the way, don't believe the movie review in an­other section of this paper . "Say Anything..." is great. Go see it. 
(THE OUTDOOR EATING & DRINKING EXPERIENCE) 
SUB'S REFRIGERATOR 
all 7" SUBS only 

RETURN/SALE
$1.99 and other specials. 
-in house customers only-

DATE: Friday, May 5th Thursday, Friday & Saturday 11 :00-8:00 pm 
TIME: 2:30 PM-5:30 PM PLACE: Stephan Center 
Featuring: Sean &. the Sun Kings 
NEED TO BRING: Refrigerator that 
friday & Saturaay Night 
is clean and defrosted to 
on the Patio 

receive initial deposit OR 
6:00 -9:00 pm 

money to buy your refrigerator; $25 for small and $40 for large. (We keep your deposit). 
SEE YOU THERE! 
ednesday, May 17 
Game 1 --1:00 p.m. Game 2 --4:00 p.m. Game 3 --7:00 p.m. 
Friday, May 19 
Game 8 --11 :00 a.m. Game 7 --2:00 p.m. Ga111e 10 --6:00 p.m. Game 9 --9:00p.m. 
Game 11  12:00 p.m.  
Game 12 -­ 3:00 p.m.  
Game 13 -­ if necessary,  


------~---, 
page 18 

Friday, May 5, 1989 
1989 MCC BASEBALL TOURNAMENT 

Midwestern Collegiate Conference 


II 

Thursday, May 18 
Game 4 --1 :00 p.m. Game 5 --4:00p.m. Game 6 --7:00p.m. 
Saturday, May 2 
immediately following previous contest 
page 19
The Observer

Friday, May 5, 1989 
Brewers stop Twins as Viola takes another loss 
Associated Press one out in the lOth inning Thursday scoreless ninth, got the victory and innings, and keeping his ERA at 0.00. night, leading New York past Cincin­Dave Smith retired the side in the lOth Greg Minto pitched the bottom of the 
MINNEAPOLIS--Winless Frank nati 3-2 for the Mets' ninth victory in for his fifth save. lOth for his third save. Viola suffered his fifth consecutive set­their last 11 games. The Astros battled back from a 4-0 back as the Milwaukee Brewers beat Dibble, 3-1, replaced Norm Charlton deficit to tie the score in the eighth in­Braves 3, Phillies 0 the slumping Minnesota Twins 3-2 to start the lOth, struck out Mookie Wil­ning. Rafael Ramirez singled, moved ATLANTA--Tom Glavine pitched a Thursday night on RBI singles by Gary son and then allowed Johnson's fifth to third on Doran's single, and scored two-hitter for his second shutout of the Sheffield and Robin Yount and Don Au­home run of the season, a drive over on Glenn Davis' sacrifice fly. season as the Atlanta Braves beat the gust's strong pitching. the rightfield wall. Philadelphia Phillies 3-0 Thursday
Angels 3, Blue Jays 2
August allowed one run and six hits It was the first loss for the Reds in night. in seven innings but came out after is­five extra-inning games and the first TORONTO--Lance Parrish led off the Glavine, 4-0, walked none and struck suing a leadoff walk in the eighth. victory for New York in three this lOth inning with a double and eventu­out two. He retired the last 13 batters Chuck Crim retired the only batter he season. ally scored on Dante Bichette's he faced to record his third complete faced and Dan Plesac took over for his Astros 5, Expos 4 sacrifice fly as the California Angels game of the season. fifth save although he yielded a home MONTREAL--Bill Doran hit a home rallied to defeat the Toronto Blue Jays The Braves took a 1-0 lead in the first 
run to Brian Harper. run with one out in the lOth inning to 3-2 Thursday night. inning when Ron Gant homered against Viola, last year's American League give the Houston Astros a 5-4 victory Toronto's Junior Felix became the Mike Maddux, 1-1. They added two runs Cy Young Award winner when he was over the Montreal Expos on Thursday 53rd player in major-league history to in the seventh on on Jeff Treadway'~ 
24-7 with a 2.64 ERA, allowed eight hits night. hit a home run in his first at-bat with sacrifice fly and a wild pitch by Mad­
and lowered his ERA to 4.84. Reliever Joe Hesketh, 3-1, struck out a third-inning shot off Kirk McCaskill. dux. August, 2-4 after going 13-7 as a rookie Rafael Ramirez to start the lOth, but C b 
last year, broke a personal three-game Doran hit a 3-2 pitch into the left-field Parrish doubled off Duane Ward, 1-5, U S 4, Padres 0 losing streak and helped hand Min­bleachers. who relieved Toronto starter Jimmy SAN DIEGO--Mike Bielecki threw a nesota its 11th loss in 12 games. It continued a rough week for Hes-Key in the eighth inning. He was five-hit shutout and Andre Dawson 
keth who allowed nine runs in 1 2-3 sacrificed to third by Chili Davis before went 4-for-4, including a pair of triples,
Mets 3, Reds 2 

inni~gs in his previous outing against Bichette hit a line drive to deep left. to lead the Chicago Cubs to a 4-0 victory the Reds Monday night. Brian Harvey, 1-0, got the win in over San Diego Thursday and a sweepNEW YORK--Howard Johnson 
homered off reliever Rob Dibble with Danny Darwin. 3-1, w.,.h..o_p!::;i;.;;,tc;;;h,;;e;.;d~a-.;;.re.;.;;l.;.;;ie;.;;.f,:..h;;.;;.o.;.;;l.;;dl;;,;;,·n~g._T~o:-:r..;.o~nt.;.;;o~h~i~tl~e,;;;;ss.....in;;...;;.2.;;2;.;;-3~:"'o_f~t-he.;..ir~tw~o-~g:.;;;a~m~e~s~e;.;;.r;;.;;ie;;;.s;...~~~~ 
ATTENTION MARKETING 
MAJQRS 
Wanted Campus Representatives for Fortune 500 company. Put your intellectual knowledge to PRACTICAL use. 
CALL 234-4055 ...Ask for Bill 

STUDENTS SAVE 
10% 

AND LOfS OF TIME-Let us pack and ship your belongings back home for the summer, or to wherever your new career leads vou! 
NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALL! 
=-BDXESP.Ll/5 
SHIFPING + PACKING + CRATING 
MOV.'NG & S10RAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PU!AS£ PRESENT ntiS 
COUPON AT THE TillE OF 
PURCHASE OR SHIPPING 
M·F 9AM·7PM SAT 10AM·S:30Pt.' SUN NOON-5:30PM 

Marie Liddy was caught for the Central College (23-4) on Wed­third out, ending the Irish nesday. The Irish took the first 
Valpo 
threat. game 12-2 and staved off a late Notre Dame had a chance to rally by the Cardinals to win
continued from page 24 
tie the score in the last inning the second game 8-5. own in the bottom of the same when Sommerlad walked and Both teams scored in the first inning. Mia Faust led off with was moved to second on a inning of game one, but the a double to left, and advanced sacrifice by Rachel Crossen, Irish exploded for six runs in to third on a single by first the team's RBI leader. Som-the bottom of the third. They baseman Dawn Boulac. merlad advanced to third on a later added five runs in the Catcher Amy Folsom drove in passed ball, but was left sixth inning to end the game on Faust with a shot into left field. stranded as Mia Faust popped the ten-run rule. 
The Crusaders added an-out and Megan Fay bounced to Notre Dame had some hot other run in the fifth on two third. bats, including Rachel eros­hits. Once again, Notre Dame Linn took the loss for the sen, who was 3-for-4 with two battled back with a run of its Irish, bringing her final record runs scored, and Ruth Kmak, own in the same inning. With to 22-15. She allowed seven hits who had two RBis. Marie Liddy one out, Laurie Sommerlad sin-in seven innings. also collected two RBis with a gled, followed by another Notre Dame went into the 2-for-3 performance. Tammy single by Mia Faust. An error Valpo game with plenty of con-Goodwin went 2-for-3 with two by the pitcher scored Sommer-fidence after sweeping a runs and two RBis. lad, but a drive to right by doubleheader from North Amy Raczkowski started the 
1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~~~~11111-.. second game, substituting for 
Barb Mooney, who was ill. 
$1.00 off for ND/SMC students (with ID) 
Raczkowski took the win, pitch­ing six good innings until she ran into trouble in the seventh with the Irish up 8-1. The Car­dinals scored four runs before
ALLIED SHIPPING SERVICE 
the last out of the game. Both Fay and Sommerlad 
turned in 2-for-2 efforts at the 
University Commons Mon.· Fri. 9:00-5:30 
plate, and Kmak was 3-for-4. 
"Our kids proved we areca­pable to play with good teams,'' Boulac stated. "I'm really pleased with Amy. She came 
277-7616 
out and pitched really well." Boulac was more than happy 
Packing and Shipping 
Supplies 
with the success of the Irish 
this season. Their preseason goal had been to have a .500 record, and they exceeded this by eight games. 
"We accomplished what we 
U.P.S.-BUS-Emery 
Next Day Service! 
wanted to," he continued. "We established ourselves, and we'll continue to improve. I'm
Western Union 
pleased with the effort our kids put out this year." 
The #:1 Way to R,eme:mber ND's #1 Sea.son­
The Limited First Edition of 
CHAMPIONS: Lou Holtz's Fighting Irish 
It's the book on Notre Dame's 1988 National Championship year! Written by Bill Bilinski, as­
sistant sports editor of the South Bend Tribune and ND's beat reporter, CHAMPIONS is the 
inside story of the Fighting lriil,.'s return to gridiron glory. 
CHAMPIONS is an attractive 208-page, $16.95 hardcover, featuring 16 pages of photos and a 
foreword by Lou Holtz. Copies of the limited first edition of CHAMPIONS will be avail­
able at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE next week! So don't leave for home without it! A 
great Father's Day gift! 

A publication of Diamond Communications, Inc. South Bend, Indiana 
''Bill Bilinski's fine book really captures 
[J ,\ rv• 1 1 ~J D C ' 1 tv1 rv' ' ' ~J ~ · 
the magic ofan unbelievable season. All Notre Dame fans will enjoy it.'!-Lou Holtz 
' D 
------~-------------------------------------------~~--~----------~~----­
page 20 

Personals 
continued from page 16 
TFH: see you soon ... thanks for a great year. "YOU'RE THE BESr !! 
VICKY E.: smile!!! 
KAJ, I will miss you dearly. Thanks for keeping me sane. Love you, "'Lefty" 
Ooooo MICHAEL!! 
JACK-Thanks for a great semester! Can't wait to spear them carpi!! 
Love Amy PS-Keep your hands away from Gretchen's cap! 
TO THE PEACE QUEEN WHO WE ALL KNOW AND LOVE: All HAPPY BIRTHDAY-MAY 12 
WELL HERE IT IS, KAREN, YOUR VERY OWN PERSONEL HAPPY BIRTHDAY! THANKS FOR MAKING IT A GREAT YEAR! 
LOVE, JUUE & MARYANN 
TO MICHELLE, PATRICIA F., THERE­SA, KATIE, CHRISSY, AMY, BARB, LAURA, AND SARAH. YOU ARE THE GREATEST FRIENDS. GOOD LUCK ON FINALS. I"LL MISS YOU GUYS THIS SUMMER. 
LOVE YA, DOREEN 
WHAT WOULD I HAVE DONE THIS YEAR WITHOUT YOU, CARE, OFRAH AND AL? I'LL MISS YOU ALL THIS SUMMER! 
BRITTLEY 
MOD SCOOTER RUN IN D.C. JUNE 16 THRU 18. CALL ROB AT301-948-7359. 
TO OUR H.C. STRIP WOO BUDS.. YOU SURE LOOKED GOOD "IN YOUR B-DAY SUITS!" LOVE, T AND N 
DAN # 42 AND PAT # 15, YOUR EYES SPARKLE LIKE CLUB SODA. WE'VE ENJOYED WATCHING EVERYSINGLE HOME GAME. GOOD LUCK IN THE TOURNEY GO IRISH BASEBALL! 
K&K 
TO THE BEST ROOMIES A SNAKE COULD HAVE-THANKS FOR A GREAT YEAR! I'LL MISS VAl 
LOVE, PEG 
TO DAD, BIF, TONE, AND MY E.P. OFFICER-THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES, PARTIES, AND TALKS, ABOUT KIDS AND PICKLES! 
LOVE, SNAKE 
CONGRATS SMC SENIOR NURSING STUDENTS AND GOOD LUCK IN THE FUTURE! 
SNA 
CHRIS, HAPPY 21ST B-DAYI LOVE, DEB 
TO THE 111-MAN IN PNGBN. WANTED 2 SAY THANX FOR EVERY­THING, INCLUDING THE PUNCH. MIKE-WHArS THE WORD? YOU ARE MR. T. PHIL-SHALOM RYAN-NAME THAT TUNE! LOU SAYS HI! ARTIE-FARTlE; ART1E-FART1E. JIM-QUIT MEXICAN, START UR PAPER. STU-LUV YOUR TOGA. PAT-WATCH OUT FOR THE PIRANHA. 
CHUCK-PARTY WITH YOU NEXT YEAR-YOU ANIMAL YOU! STEVE-MISS VA-GOOD LUCK! WOODY-IrS ALL IN THE NAME. SEE YOU SOON, LUV, K & L 
SUE, BARB (2), USA, KAR, CATH, AND ALL MY SMC FRIENDS, CONGRATS AND THANKS FOR FOUR YEARS OF COLLEGE FUN. I'LL MISS YOU! 
KAREN 
DEAR JAESON, JOHN, BARB, BRIAN, RICH, VITO, JODY, NATE, KER­RYANNE, ROSEANNE, SCHUBE, CHRISTOPHER, MATT MATT, JERRY, JERRY, AMY, AND THE REST OF CAVANAUGH-LOVE YOU. GOOD LUCK-YOUR FAVORITE REDHEAD. 
i;iii<:e;··waVii··;:w:.ciE··iii..ON"i:i..YiE.i:ii<::. 
MAKE THAT TWICE IN FOUR YEARS! I LOVE YOU VERY MUCH AND WISH YOU THE BEST OF LUCK ON YOUR RNALS. 
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: JUST A SIIAL.L THANKS TO SOME VERY SPECIAL PEOPLE. CHRIS. THANKS FOR BEING SUCH A GREAT BROTHER. CONGRATS ON GRADUATING AND I WISH YOU MUCH 
LUCK IN THE FUTURE. GET A JOB. 
TO MY MCCANDLESS BUDDIES. 
THANKS FOR ALL THE WILD AND 
CRAZY TIMES AND FOR BEING SUCH 
GREAT FRIENDS. 
MY ROOMIES-MANY, MANY 
MEMORIES ''1liE KNOB!" AND PUT­
TING UP WITH ME FOR THE YEAR! 
CHRIS. FOR ALL THE TIMES TO­
GETHER -YOU MEAN SO MUCH TO 
ME. 
GOOD LUCK ON RNALS EVERYONE. 
LOVE, AUSSA GENO, I'M GLAD I COULD BE A PART OF YOU YOUR FOUR YEARS AT NOTRE DAME FROM START TO FINISH.! AM REALLY PROUD OF YOU. CONGRATS ON GRADUATING. I LOVE YOU MUCHO. 
MAZIE 
································································ 
BECKY, CATH, AND DAWN, HAPPY EARLY 21ST BIRTHDAY! HAVE A GREAT ONE! 
LOVE, MAR AND MAUREEN 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: Coming this August 29&30: The FALL MALL SUB's Back-to School Sale. All items will be sold at DISCOUNT prices including car­pets. lofts, fumi· ture,sweaters,fridges,plants, and posters. Wait to buy your Back· to-School items!!! 
NAN KESMODEL-Just a few things to cavenberg:Do you always stand on the wardrobe? Fred can beat the hell out of Mackil 241 Dillon. EN. Vodka. Angie & Steven. HoHest cultural events in S.Bend. Pizza. Too Pieces-over & over again. Let"s play! But what ii...Will you just?! Want to go to break1ast? Hour Power SYRS. Foodsales. Hot tubbing. Jello rainbow. They were ALL in your English class! W.Palm Beach-walks. Music mixes(we have a lot of tapes) Bruises! He was average-there've been beHer. Austir>Drezelda. 2 out ol 8 isn't bad! And we made them squirm! Thanks for being the best roommate and friend! Hey! When there's no one else who can make you laugh just think:That was a very expensive vase,you b I Wuv twue wuv-Marwaige! Luv yai-Georgie & Happy B-day July 141 
JOE, ARCHIE, AND DUANE, 
GOOD LUCK IN MED SCHOOL-YOU 
ARE GOING TO DO AWESOME! CON­
GRAYS ON GRADUATING. I LOVE 
YOU GUYS AND WILL MISS YOUI 
MUREEN 
Live rt up on your birthday Ag--Wear those gold hoops and toss that unlikely shade of red hair!!! 
T-BEAR JUST WANTED TO SAY HOW DO AND LET YOU KNOW HOW MUCH I LOVE YOU. GOOD LUCK NEXT YEAR AND REMEMBER "I"LL BE THERE FOR YOU". P-KIN 
································································ 
JOE, ARCHIE, GENE, DUANE & MARK 
HAPPY GRADUATION! CHICAGO IS 
WHERE IT'S AT "hint, hint, Archie". 
LOVE, THE PARTY BABES 
JOHN (FUZZV HEAD) ROSSMILLER, 
HAPPY EARLY 21ST B·DAYI I HOPE 
YOUR B·DAY IS AS GREAT AS THE 
LAST SIX MONTHS HAVE BEEN FOR 
MEl 
I LOVE YOU! 
CATHY 
MICHELLE, 
THANKS FOR BEING MY BEST 
FRIEND. 
LOVE, V ..... WOMAN 
DEAREST DAN, 
THANKS FOR AN AWESOME TWO 
WEEKS. WOW! GOOD LUCK ON 
FINALS. 
MY N-WILL MISS YOU THIS SUM­
MER. 
LUV, DOR (K) 
SENIORS YOU CAN STILL PUT IN YOUR GOODBYE CLASSIREDS FOR THE SENIOR ISSUE ON MAY 19. COME UP TO THE OBSERVER BEFORE 3 PM ON THURSDAY, MAY 18. 

LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL ACCEPTING RESERVATIONS for Notre Dame Graduation 
May 19, 20, 21 (219) 234-4063 
The Observer 
GGabyGwe· 
nlisaEvelynKateDeandraMurial Lyn­
nJenKateHeatherJennifer 
Thanks for the PAAAHHTAY year!! 
BONGO 
BONGO-BONGO!! KISS HOT LIPS AMY SELOVER TODAY BEFORE YOU LOSE YOUR CHANCE. WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!II 
BRYAN w•· IS THE SEX GOD OF NORTH QUAD CUTE FURRY ANIMALS LOVE HIM HAVE A JESUS DAYIIIII 
SENIORS 
YOU CAN STILL PUT IN YOUR GOODBYE CLASSIFIEDS FOR THE SENIOR ISSUE ON MAY 19. COME UP TO THE OBSERVER BEFORE 3 PM ON MAY 18. 
A MONTH AWAY UNTIL THE BIG DAY. HAPPY EARLY 21ST BIRTHDAY, SHANNON. LOVE, PA, MOM, PATSY AND MOLLY 
David Wirth(hu)man I want your body (we'll talk about this later, dear) lov AG 
Love-Amy & Anne PS-JackieEieanorCyndie Have fun frolicking with those foreign men! IIIII 
ANITA VARKEY IS GOING TO LON· DON!III Bon Voyage from your favorite roommate (I couldn't write a personal without references to ME) and say Hi to the Python gang while you're there. Never before in the history of mankind has anyone been as cool as you-· you can't help it! Love, Rockin' Robyn P.S. ERIK ESTRADA IS MINE!!!! 
To Mine and ScoHo, Thanks for all of the "Boss" times See you guys in Miami! the Muchach 
MJM,LOML I don't think I could have sur­vived the year wt>ut you,especially now since you mean so much. No one else could turn a bear into a BEAR. Am looking forward to THE SURPRISE of YOUR life. Love always, Loretta 
HH· Always remember, a penny saved is a penny earned ... 
MARK "KORZ" Of course I had to wait until the last day! Don't get your hopes up, though-I'm not going to call you dreamboat or say you're alright. But I have to admit that you play a mean piano. How about a backrub sometime? Your future roomie 


BHIDAL SERVICE FRUIT BASKETS 

"Raweu fUIIL Giif& 6M oft ~, FREE DELIVERY! 
COME IN AND BROWSE === 
Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM f;undaya 9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon 
SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S 
SERVING SCr. BEND & MISHAWAKA OVER 60 YEARS
FUNERAL TRIBUTES 
IJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!I 
~ ~  ~:.:1  [MI  ~~@~6i) • • ' ~~ @J J a r t 0 t 0 Ui  c~ir;'~~;;; f~::~Je Serving your favorite  ~ ~  
~ i  ~  ~ ~ "THE ITALIAN RISTORANTE"  wine and cocktails Your host -Roberto Parisi  ~ ~  
I=  SPECIAL OPENING  GRADOATION SUNDAY 4-10 PM MAY 21  i~_  
~ =  1412 South Bend Avenue  Tuesday -Saturday 4-11 p.m. (219) 232-4244  S. of JACC on St. Rd. 23  ~ =  

Enjoy an Italian Feast from a menu featuring authentic northern and southern Italian cuisine. 
Prepared for you by Mama Parisi, dinners include Veal entres, Fettuccine Alfredo, Stuffed Shrimp, Rounder or Red Snapper, Lasagna, Prime Rib and traditional pasta dishes. Accentuating the casual and candlelite ambiance of the dining room Parisi's exclusive overview of the University of Notre Dame skyline and its outdoor patios and Bocce ball court. 
~ Reservations for graduation weekend are recommended. ~ illlllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Friday, May 5, 1989 

lnterhall spring sports crown their champs 
Observer Staff Report 

With the school year winding down, several spring Interhall sports have wrapped up their seasons. 
In baseball, Flanner defeated defending champ Morrissey to take the title. 
Flanner had beaten Pangborn in the semi-finals, while Morrissey defeated Car­roll. Scores are unavailable. 
In men's soccer action, Pangborn needs to beat ISO once to claim the title, ISO needs to beat Pangborn twice to take it all. They played Thursday night. No score was available. 
Breen-Phillips won the wo­men's soccer title. 
In men's softball, the OC Vikings will play Dillon's Master Batters for the title. 
Badin and Lyons played for the women's softball title Thursday night. 
In lacrosse action, Morrissey beat OC in the A Division cham­pionship, Pangborn defeated Flanner to claim the B Division title. Scores were unavailable. 
John Moody is playing Mic­hale Stanis for the putting tournament title on Friday. 
Happy Birthday Michael Lee! 
Love Gillian 


Photo courtesy Notre Dame Sports lnfonnation Department 
Jake Kline receives honors at Notre Dame's "Jake Kline Day" in 1975. Surrounding Kline are former Irish player and assistant coach Chuck Lennon, Kline's wife Edith Mae, former University Executive Vice President Edmund Joyce and former Athletic Director Edward W. "Moose" Krause. 
Kline kept his position with 

30-game slates. 
Dine at the Water's 
"I've never taken anything 
udontneed richparents togetacar forgraduation 
Friday, May 5, 1989 
Kline 
continued from page 24 
long ball?" 
Kline replied, "I guess he 
could, son. It was that little 
round one that gave him trou­
ble." 
Although Jake Kline the co­
ach wanted his teams to have 
fun playing the game, Clarence 
Kline the math professor made 
sure to stress academics in any 
setting. 
"He took his books on every 
road trip," said Lennon. "You 
always had kind of an aca­
demic atmosphere around the 
bus." 
Kline still has records of all 
his teams and classes. Mention 
a name to him, and he can look 
up just how good a player or 
student the person was while 
at Notre Dame. Kline never 
played favorites in the clas­
sroom...with one exception. 
"People used to kid me about 
the seminarians I had in class 
in the early days, if I ever 
flunked them," said Kline. "I 
said, 'Hell, no. Someday they 
may become president and fire 
me." 
If Kline had coached just a 
few more years, his prediction 
may have come true. Rev. Ed­
ward "Monk" Malloy, who con­
sistently scored in the 90s on 
Kline's quizzes, became Uni­
versity president in 1987. 
Sentra . 
Up to $1000 Rebate 

KILaLEA 
NISSAN 

Celebrating our 10th Year Anniversa 1979-1989 
:! _..._ 
2101 Lincolnway, West 

J-· i 
Mishawaka, IN' 46556 255-9644 

the math department until 1970. At 75, he decided to con­centrate solely on baseball.. 
"A lot of professors won­dered how does that guy stay around," said Kline. "You're supposed to retire when you're 60 or 65." 
At this point, Kline was far from retirement. He had quite a battle with the University in trying to keep the baseball pro­gram alive. After the glory years in the 1950s, the Irish ad­vanced to NCAA post-season play only twice in the following decade. One of the few high points of that period came with Kline's induction into the Col­lege Baseball Hall of Fame. 
Kline took the Irish back to the NCAAs in 1970, despite rumors that the University was attempting to drop the baseball program. Notre Dame has never returned to the NCAA playoffs since that season. 
"There was always a discus­sion that baseball, since it only helped 30 peole, could be bro­ken up, and the money could be used for intramural sports, where more people would play," said Lennon. 
With assistance from Ed­ward W. "Moose" Krause, then the Notre Dame athletic direc­tor, Kline managed to maintain the stability of the baseball pro­gram. 
"I wrote enough alumni and friends of mine who put a stop to that," said Kline. "I knew 
The Observer 
Pulsar 

$750 Rebate or 7.9o/a'9.9% financing* 
Cet a Nissan• for no money down. No payments for 90 days. Ju•t fill outthi1 card and bring it to any participating Nissan Dealer. 
r----------------------­
Na~'--------------------­
Signature:___________________ 
Address: ____________________ 
City: _____.Si:lltalllite._·___-'rlzil.ll.R·;....___ 
School Name: ____________ 
Dealer signature:_________ 
Ofrt.-rboK'o•-' fn"" Arril1~. 1WN lhmugh Scph.-mbcrJQlllfW. 
Fin.u\Cing sut+,cct lu m.Jit •'PI'n'''•''· l'r"·vklll" a1mp.lra.,k' Credit is not noquift'd, fltlWt.•V~o.•r, oldY\..,..,. \.-n.'\lit m.ly di~JWII• ify. Offt.or nett \'alklln Nt..ow Jcf'!oo('~·. Llrntted to lkmscd drh~n 18 )"Nrs .,{ a,r;e and U\'t.'r wilh Yt.'1ifi.1blc aff~rs of '-'mployii'M.'"t aftl'T graduati<•n. Vt.•rifiablt.• insuran~ covcri1~'-' 
--~~~------------------~ 

opposed to Notre Dame's 20 or 
some of the trustees, and the 'big shots,' as they call them. They went to bat for me." 
Kline managed to coach the Irish for five more seasons, which consisted of few high­lights for his mediocre 1970s teams but several milestones for the coach. 
In 1972, Kline became only the sixth collegiate coach to win 500 games. Four of the five previous coaches to reach that plateau had worked in Arizona or California, where the teams played 50-game schedules as poverty. Well, I did too, only I was allowed to wear a necktie." 
Notre Dame honored the former coach and professor with a "Jake Kline Day" on May 6, 1976, the year after Tom Kelly finally replaced Kline as the Irish baseball coach. On that day, the University renamed the old Cartier Field as "Jake Kline Field," marking the first time that Notre Dame had named an athletic complex after a living person. 
Kline continues to follow the Notre Dame Athletic Depart­ment and regularly attends the baseball team's annual alumni game, but age finally is taking its toll. Kline wears a hearing aid and uses a walker to move around the apartment he shares with his wife--the 
OPEN M-F 9-6 SAT 9-5 

ADIVISION OF MICHAEL ANGELO BERNACCHI CORP. 703 W. EDISON RD.• MISHAWAKA, IN 46545• (219) 256-7277 
COLLEGE GRADS 
INTERES1'ED JN INVFSfiNG YOUR DEGREE 
JN A REWARDING CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
85% of the beHer paying ••• 
more creative positions ore not to be found in any published source. If you ore deserving of a better income or better opportunity, you need to access the "UNPUBLISHED NONADVERTISED" jobs in Indiana and Nation wide. 
Send your resume, letter or call today for a free and confidential car~r asses.:menl 
9100 Key•tone "' th~ Crouing 
6­
lndionopoli•, IN .462.40 
1-8.00-759-6997 

317_84 8888 
INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANTS IN CAREER 
MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE OUTPLACEMENT Alao located in Clevele~nd, Colum!Jua, Ciadnncrti, Laulavllle, Boaton, Long bland, PhllacleiDhl... ..cl Plf~lbut-gh 
Call 1·. Brown for an appolati'ih~nt 
page 21 

former Edith Mae Hamilton. They will celebrate their 65th anniversary in June. 
"I could hit fungoes up until I was 80," said Kline. "I felt good, and I was in shape then. These 90s are pretty tough." 
Kline injured his hand at last October's Notre Dame-Miami exhibition baseball game, when he fell down the stairs at South Bend's new Coveleski Stadium. Kline prefers to talk about how the Irish beat the powerful Miami team. 
"I thought they were going to get licked," said Kline. "This Pat Murphy is doing a great job." 
But it's not quite the same without the crusty veteran Kline hitting pre-game infield practice. 
10% Discount on all floral arrangements with Student I. D. 

[3runch or Lunch from $3.95 Early Dinners from $5.95 Prime Rib or Shrimp $7.95 
seriously in my life except for the kids," Kline said as his career neared an end. "They're what kept me here. It wasn't the lure of gold. A lot of priests take the vow of 
=Rm~
SEAF00Di4~
~!t!RAI'1 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 

page 22 The Observer Friday, May 5, 1989 
Markezich set on NCAA title 
NO track team will stay busy long after school year ends 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 

A single runner will cross the finish line at Brigham Young University ahead of the pack in the 10,000 meters June 2 to claim an NCAA championship. 
Ron Markezich hopes to be the athlete who makes that dream come true. Earlier this year in Tennessee, Markezich set the Notre Dame record in the 10,000, finishing with a time of 28:44. That time is faster than last year's winning time in the NCAA's. 
"Ron has as good a shot (to win this race) as anybody in the country," says Irish track coach Joe Piane, "Ronny is very fit, and winning the NCAA championship is his goal." 
Ron's main competition will come from defending cham­pion John Schere of Michigan and Harry Green of Texas, who has run an even better time this year in the 10,000 than Markezich. The Irish star is not at all intimidated by these op­ponents, and has formed a plan for success. 
"I plan to go out in the first half of the race and stay with everyone in the pack," said Markezich. "Later on in the race I'll just start hammering, and I'll try to drop some people." 
The NCAAs will culminate a very rewarding season for the Notre Dame track team, which will be very busy in the next few weeks. The Irish will travel to Indianapolis this weekend for the National Invitationals, kicking off a hectic month of May. 
This meet will be on the campus of Indiana Univer­sity-Purdue University at In­dianapolis, which hosted the 1988 Olympic Trials. 
"It will be a great meet at what might be the best track facility in the country," said Piane. 
One week later, the team will travel to the Wisconsin Invita­tional. 
"We'll just take a few guys to Wisconsin," said Piane. "We'll take some guys who have qualified for the IC4As but need another race, and some guys who haven't yet qualified for the IC4As and need another opportunity to race." 
The big meet for many of the Notre Dame striders will be the IC4A Championships on May 20-21. Since several Irish ath­letes already have qualified for the IC4As, Piane will take an impressive squad to this meet at Villanova University. 
Irish distance runners who already have qualified for IC4As include Markezich, who will miss the meet because of graduation, Tom O'Rourke in the 3,000 meter steeplechase, Mike Rogan in the 1,500 meters and Ryan Cahill in the 5,000. 
Other qualifiers include sprinters Rich Culp, Pete DeMeo and Yan Searcy (all in the 400), hurdler Glenn Watson, high jumper John Cole and long jumper Jeff Smith. 
"I think there's also the pos­sibility of other kids qualify­ing," says Piane. He especially has high hopes for Xavier Vic­tor in the long jump, as well as Mark Lavery, David Warth and Brian Peppard in the 800. 
After the IC4As, the Irish will train for the Central Col­legiates, scheduled for May 26 at Illinois. About 25 schools will compete in the Central Col­legiates, where the Irish placed second last year. 
The season will conclude with the NCAAs. So far, Markezich is the only Notre Dame athlete to qualify, but a 110-meter hurdler by the name of Glenn Watson would like to join Ron on the trip to BYU. 
"I need to run the perfect race," Watson said about his chances of qualifying. "I need to run against good competi­tion, have good weather and not make any mistakes." 
An excellen opportunity for the perfect race will come this Saturday in Indianapolis which boasts one of the fastest tracks in the country. 
Summer Sessions at Indiana University at South Bend May 15 · June 26 July 5 ·August 15 
For your copy of the schedule call237-4455 IUSB Admissions Office 1700 Mishawaka Avenue 

Happy 21st Birthday POPI 
L6H !fu~ /}a~ f't.~ 
#fJ.I(ut·& /}u!t, 

Take off with low fares. • Unlimited Mileage on One-Way Our offer is only goad through Rentals June 1 , 1989 , so get a • 24-Hr. Emergency Road Service move on. • Full Range of Truck Sizes For quality, comfort, cost and • Clean, Smooth-Running Trucks convenience, no other rental truck • Many Trucks With Auto Trans­can move you like aHertz Penske mission and Air Conditioning truck. Hertz 4311 North Mayflower Rd. South Bend, IN 46628-9743 219-277-0144 2220 T aledo Road Elkhart, IN 46516-5538 219-293-0541 THE WINNING TEAM: HERTZ PENSKE AND YOU. Not all trucks available at all locations. All local and one·way rentals subject to Hertz Penske standard rental qualifications. ©Hertz Penske Truck leasing. Inc. 1985. You pay for gas, to:ces, tolls, colliston damage waiver, ond parking and dri~tng vioklttons. Drop it off at any participating Hertz Penske Truck Rentallocatton.  Tillle to celebrate! Congratulation~~ You mad<' it to graduation and now it's timf' to prepare for the future. The IBM Personal System/2' Model 30 286 helps you progrPss from lt>rm papers and lah reports to prt>scntations and spreadsheets with pizzazz. ' . The PS/2l\lodcl.30 286 has exciting, specially selected . . . tIJ · software that is easy to usP, loadeel a~c~ ready_to go. So · ! ·; ·, take advantage of tillS mcrcdJhiP offer. .. c: ·-:-J:::.-~-.J • ·,~ and stop in and s«·c~ us today. Hurry!1·····--·..-·--' . ·-·-~­. OffcrcxpircsJunc30,1989.1 E"'~t-.~.. . • .2·:~~ Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing FREE T -SHIRT Computing Center Room 25while supplies last 239-7477 8uy now and tell us send it to my hometown IBM dealer 'This oiler is limited lo qualified sludenls, lacully and stall who order an IBM PS/2 Model B530·E21 on or belore June 30. 1989. Microsoft Word is the Academic Edition. Prices quoted do notmclude sales tax, handling and/or processing chn~ges. Check with your inslitulion regarding lhese charges. Orders are subjecllo availability. IBM may withdraw the promotion at any time without written notice. IBM ~rsonal Sysl~m/2 and PS/2 are regrsrefe(l trademarks ollnlernahonar Busmess Machtnes Corporahon MtCrosoll t! a reg•stertod trademark ol MICI'OSOII Cc.tri)Ofa!IO" hOC Wmdows Express rs a trademark ol the hOC Compute• Corpora1100  

Friday, May 5, 1989 The Observer page 23 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
3:30p.m. ND Dept. of Philosophy, "In the Wake of the Ana­lytical Revolution: The Case of William Whewall,'' by Menac­hem Fisch, University of Tel Aviv. Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
4:30 p.m. ND Dept of Mathematics Colloquium, "A Mathe­matician's Visit to Kaluza-Klein Theory," by Jean Pierre Bourguignon, Ecole Polytechnique and Ohio State Univer­sity. Room 226 Computing Center. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's
End Of Year Celebration Batter Fried Perch NY Strip Steak Beef Stroganof£Noodles Chicken Normandy Savory Rice-Spinach Bake 
Fish Nuggets Deli Bar 
Wish your friends a happy 
birthday with Observer )Mt advertising. ~ ~ Call 239-6900 C 
\ i 
~\tv. 
DUID 


A public service message from The Observer 
ACROSS 
1 Tent made from animal skins 6Mai-,rum drink 9 Custer's N.Y. alma mater 13 The diamond's Tony 
14 Elimination game via coin tossing 
17 Bonanzas 18 Colo. boomtown in the 19th century 
19 Massages 
21 Seat of a sort 
22 Avant-garde 
U.S. composer 24 Greenback 

26 Former Brazilian 
money 
27 June bug 
28 Toughen or temper 
30 John of "Tumbleweed Connection" 
32 "The Last-" 1933 ballad ' 38 Rabbitlike rodents 41 Navajo baby 42 End of a famed trail 43 Senior 44 Ho Chi Minh City, formerly 48 Lyricist Kahn 49 Honeymoon spoiler 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

16 Declare 20 Writer Beattie 22 Concepts 
23 Europe's longest river 25 Frontier law enforcer 28 Broadway org. 29 Seat of Wayne County, Utah 31 Issued, as a book 33 Well informed about 34--pros (court entry) 

53 Deceive, in slanguage 54 -Le Moko of fiction 55 Locust tree 
57 Ancient Mexican 59 Bat-, former 
U.S. marshal 61 Loos or Louise 64 Wrangle 65 Not now! 66 Expedited 67 Coquettish 68 Glasgow's river 
DOWN 
1 Gobbler 2 Whitney 3 Famous U.S. 
detective: 1819-84 4 Ties up 5 Comfort 6 Tattled 7 "-Fideles" 8 Neighbor of Wyo. 9 Band together 10 Conductor Georg 11 Lounging slippers 
12 Suit to­
35 "The Cowboy Capital" 36 Consume 37 Intrinsically 38 Unknown conditions 40 Homophone for seize 45 Wholly 46 Black-footed albatross 47 Ruru, e.g. 49 Tonsure area 
so Fake gem 51 Emulated Martin 
Sheen 52 Row 54 Subject to 
punishment 55 Amo, -,amat 56 Rainbow 58 Soft mineral 60 An Okla. native 62 A memorable 
Knight 63 Modern art 

COMICS 

"What? No tartar sauce? You'd forget your own head if it wasn't bolted on!" 

239-7308 
Sports
page 24 Friday, May 5, 1989 
ND baseball looks to Detroit after tie with 'Cats 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Livorsi in the seventh. However, the Irish first must set thPir status is uncertain as well. 
Sports Writer Now the Irish will be looking to close sights to the next two weekends, be­Looking ahead to Detroit, the Irish out the regular season with strong cause all of their remaining games are will be looking to avoid the same kind Mter playing seven innings on a showings against Detroit and Dayton. against MCC teams. And this will not of situation as when the Titans took muddy Northwestern field, the Notre The team has eight remaining games, be easy, for two reasons. three of four from the Irish on April
Dame baseball team settled for a 5-5 all with MCC East teams. This First, half of their remaining games 22-23. weekend, the Irish are at Detroit for are against Detroit. The Irish have al­
• MCC tourney preview I page 17 two doubleheaders, and next weekend ways struggled against Detroit, and are "Detroit is an experienced class of
(May 13-14) the team will close out the 1-3 against them this year. Detroit, 9-4 
athletes," said Head Coach Pattie with the Wildcats on Thursday. regular season with four games against in the MCC East, just swept four games Murphy. "As far as I've seen themNotre Dame (37-12-1} scored first Dayton at Jake Kline Field. from Dayton last weekend. 
think we'll beat them come crun~hwith a three-run fourth inning. Irish Mter the regular season comes Second, the Irish are injured. Catcher time."
pitcher Joe Binkiewicz, in his first star1 postseason play, and the Irish will play Ed Lund's achilles heel is botheringof the year, threw three shutout in­host to the MCC tournament. All games him, and his participation in this Head Coach Pat Murphy also mustnings. will be at Coveleski Stadium during the weekend's games is questionable. 
be concerned with the team's current
The Irish still led 5-2 before period of May 17-20, and the winner of Second baseman Mike Moshier injured confidence level. Despite winning five 
Northwestern (19-25-3) rallied for three the tournament receives an automatic his ankle trying to turn a double play of their last six games, the Irish are 
runs off Notre Dame reliever Tony bid to the NCAA tournament. against Valparaiso on Tuesday, and his only 8-5 in their last 13 games. 
ND softball 
Kline beat the odds
ends year 

to produce winners
at 31-23 

Coach worked with few scholarships
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
By STEVE MEGARGEE and basketball player who also Associate Sports Editor 
had a short career with the Na­The Notre Dame softball tional Basketball Association's 
team ended its first varsity Editor's Note: This is the tast Detroit Pistons. season with a loss to Valparaiso of a two-part series profiling Kline's approach to the game at home yesterday, bringing its Jake Kline, who coached the probably helped convince final record to 31-23. Notre Dame baseball team many football and basketball 
Earlier in the season, the from 1934 to 1975. players to join the baseball Crusaders and the Irish had Jake Kline enjoyed the most club. split a pair of one-run games, success of his coaching career "He loved to win, and he felt so yesterday's contest during the 1950s, which saw the having people work hard at 
promised to be close. It lived Irish become regular partici­winning was important, but he up to that billing, as Valpo won pants in the NCAA playoffs. also ensured you had fun," said by a 3-2 score. Beginning in 1956, Notre Rosenthal, who doubled as a 
"Our kids kept playing hard Dame advanced to the NCAAs hard-hitting first baseman and up to the final out," said Irish for five consecutive seasons. All-America basketball player. coach Brian Boulac. "We had Notre Dame went to the College Kline showed that attitude 
some opportunities to score, World Series in Omaha, Neb., through some memorable com­but we couldn't capitalize on all in 1957, placing fourth in the na­ments he made both on and off 
of them. We're disappointed to tion. the field during his coachinglose 3-2, but we were competi­"We always played the top career. tive with them." teams," said Chuck Lennon, There was the time when 
Valpo pitcher Lori who worked with Kline as a Kline's team practiced during 
Pajakowski outdueled Notre player and assistant coach, a snowy April day in South Dame's Missy Linn to take her "yet Jake Kline consistently Bend. second victory over the Irish won with two scholarships." "What's that white stuff this season. The last time Linn Much of that was due to blowing?" Kline said after­and Pajakowski faced each Kline's keen eye for talent. His wards. "Someone must have 
other, the game was scoreless 
ability to see athletic potential run over a white chicken over for seven innings until the 
helped Kline decide which ath­on Juniper Road." 
Crusaders scored a run off Linn letes playing football or basket­On another occasion, one of in the bottom of the eighth. 
ball for Notre Dame might Kline's former players had 
Valparaiso got on the 
make good baseball players. stretched the truth a bit when scoreboard first Thursday with 
Kline sent dozens of his telling his son about hisDerrick Smith and the Philadelphia Flyers continue their Wales Con-two runs on three hits in the top baseball accomplishments.
ference final against the Montreal Canadians tonight at the Spectrum, former players to the major
of the fourth inning. The Irish 
leagues. One of the players to The man's son asked Kline, "Is fought back with a run of their 
with each team having won a game. In the Campbell Conference achieve the greatest success in 
it true, could Dad really hit the 

final Thursday, the Chicago Blackhawks doused the Calgary Flames the professional ranks was Ron 
see V ALPO I page 19 see KLINE I page 21
.1-4_-_2_to_e_ve_n_th_e_ir_s_e_rie_s_a_t_1_-_1._____________. Reed, a Notre Dame pitcher 
Senior class has left its mark on Irish sports 
A farewell to the Notre Dame Class of 1989. From 
as a full time student, and have a minimum 3.25 the perspective of sports, these seniors won't be Theresa GPA. forgotten for a while. Of the 11 men's indoor track honorees, seven were 
The Irish volleyball and soccer teams grew into Kelly from Notre Dame: Steve Culbert, Frank Montal­impressive competitors on the national level, bon, Richard Noble, John Reilly, Anthony Smith, thanks mostly to the four-year performances of the Sports Editor Scott VandenBerg and Kevin Whelan. current seniors. A complete list of the honorees appears on page 17. 
Several· sports did not even exist at the varsity But the style of the team changed, and his abilities Interhall sports are wrapping up, but admittedly, level when this graudating class entered Notre didn't match the new style. An understandable the coverage in The Observer has been lacking.Dame. desire to compete will take him to a program that The problem lies in the fact that NVA does not have 
And, of course, these are the only students left can use his drop-back passing style better, or in his any information, and when we get reports from the who were here to experience the low point of Irish case, be able to use it at all. participants, they usually contradict each other. football (Miami 58, Notre Dame 7) and the demise Irish quarterbacks credit each other for their suc­To remedy this problem next semester, NVA of Gerry Faust. But hey, wasn't it worth it on Jan. cesses, and Graham's presence for two years should be more organized, the team captains should 2? benefited the passing game in ways not apparent communicate better with NVA, and The Observer 
The only sport in which the seniors won't be on the playing field. We wish him luck. will do its best to cover every sport in order to keep 
missed is the men's basketball team, which didn't the nasty phone calls to a minimum. have any, and didn't do too badly without them. ••• ••• 
Pick of the Week: Or rather, Pick of the Month.••• Notre Dame not only won the Midwestern Col­The Notre Dame baseball team will host the Mid­legiate Conference all-sports championship, but led western Collegiate Conference baseball tournament Another good-bye, this one to Kent Graham, Notre in student-athletes on the MCC Academic Honor May 17-20 at Coveleski Stadium in downtown South Dame's back-up quarterback for the last two years, Roll as well. Bend. The Irish have the best record in the Confer­who has left in search of an offense better suited Forty-five Irish made the list of 220 student­ence at 35-12, but five conference losses have the 
to his abilities. Like many high school quarter­athletes, outdistancing Xavier and Butler, with 35 Irish running a close second to Detroit in the Eas­
backs, Graham looked at Notre Dame as the best each. Qualifying standards were participation in a tern Division standings. 
place to play collegiate football. conference sport, complete at least three semesters see IRISH I page 17 
---~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 





