
VOL. XXIII NO. 17 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

ND male shot near bar 
South Bend teen will face trial 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Trenary of the South Bend Senior Staff Reporter Police Department's homicide division. Hurley said that 
Anthony Darden, 19, of South although Trenary is a compe­Bend, is scheduled to go to trial tent investigator, he is very next month facing charges of a busy with other cases. Class C felony for allegedly Hurley said he spoke to shooting a Notre Dame student Trenary and was able to essen­on June 24. tially take over the cases. 
Hurley said Dennis Neverre of 
Darden is going to trial be­Notre Dame Security worked cause of a joint investigation on the case as well. between Notre Dame Security and the South Bend Police "We felt it was very impor­Department. tant to get the case solved be­
According to Charles Hurley, fore the students returned," assistant director of Security, said Hurley. Hurley said he was the shooting occurred at 1:25 optimistic about solving the 
a.m. in front of Bridget case because there was a large McGuire's Filling Station. Two number of suspects. students, Michael Crounse and "As this was a violent crime Steven Huffman drove separate to an individual and one we be­cars to Bridget's that evening. lieved to be unprovoked, we
Elephants and donkeys Hurley said Crounse arrived wanted to be sure the people at Bridget's first and as he responsible were charged," said went inside he said he noticed a Hurley.
The college republicans and democrats held a debate. ~oncerning foreign rel~tions at Theodore's on 
large group across the street.
Monday night. From left to right: Mike Shadek, John Lanc1a (speaker), and Jenn1fer Schneider. 
According to Hurley, Crounse He said the investigation in­"did not think much of it at the volved working in the local time." neighborhoods and developing suspects. Whereas there was a
Hugo leaves at least 14 dead 
Huffman arrived a moment large number of youths in­later and said one member of volved Hurley said it was diffi­Associated Press least 27,900 people were made "About two days from now, the. group threw a bottle at cult to pin down who actuallyhomeless by the storm. three days from now, it'll be him. Crounse came out of was responsible for the shoot­SAN JUAN. Puerto Hico -Colon and Police Superinten­out in the Bahamas, and about Bridget's and found a group of ing.
llurril'ann Hugo's 125 mph dent lsmael Betancourt said Wednesday, we'll be making de­15 around Huffman, said "We did not have all of thewinds pounded Puerto Rico there were no immediate re­cisions as to whether or not we Hurley. concrete facts to go on," said
Monday after ripping across ports of hurricane-related need any (hurricane) 'Yatches 
Two other students were with Hurley.
othPr islands in the eastern deaths but that poor communi­or warnings for anywhere Huffman and Crounse and theyCaribbean. leaving at least 14 cations across the island pre­along the U.S. coast," he said. 
went into Bridget's to call the Hurley said he was able torwopln dead and tens of thou­vented any definitive reports on Sheets said forecasting mod­police, said Hurley. use the records of the Southsands homeless. damages or casualties. els indicate the hurricane will Bend Police Department. HeTlw National Weatlwr Service Hugo is expected to hit the travel in a northwestern direc­Crounse assisted Huffman, said the break in the investiga­said Hugo, the most powerful northeastern coast of the Do­tion for several hours and then said Hurley, and punches were tion came when Crime Stoppers storm to hit the region this minican Hepublic, which shares "our best (hurricane computer thrown. "One individual pulled received three different callsdecadP. slammed into the east­the island of Hispaniola with projection) models indicate that out a handgun and fired what about the crime. 
Prn tip of PuPrto Rico and llaiti. Civil defense authorities it will turn back" toward the we believe to be four shots. One The male who was chargedskirted the northern coast be­in the Dominican Republic de­U.S. mainland. 
missed Huffman and Crounse will be charged as an adult andfore roaring to the west­clared a state of emergency and At 9 p.m. EDT, the center of was shot three times. He was Hurley said a Class C felony cannorthwest toward the edge of the country's four international the hurricane was near latitude shot once in the leg and twice in result in up to 5 years in prison thn Dominican Republic and the airports were closed. 19.8 degrees north and longi­the stomach," said Hurley. and a $10,000 fine. Three yearsBahamas. Bob Sheets, director of the tude 6 7.1 west, about 110 miles Shortly after police arrived can be added for aggravatingLatP Monday, Puerto Hico National Hurricane Center in northwest of San Juan, accord­the crowd broke up, said circumstances, said Hurley.
(;ov. Hernandez Colon said he Coral Gables, Fla., said Monday ing to the National Weather Hurley. He said Crounse was The others in the group whowill "ask PresidPnt Bush to de­evening it's still too early to tell Service in Florida. 
taken to the hospital and police ranged in ages from 14-17 have clare the island a disaster if Hugo will strike the U.S. 
searched for the suspects.
area" af'tm a tour showPd at mainland. see HUGO I page 4 Hurley said he spoke to Tom see SHOT I page 4 

Almost 40 companies to be represented at Industry Day 
By JANICE O'LEARY These events are solely for Staff Reporter engineers as registration was required,Templin said. 
Industry Day , sponsored by Guest speaker, Joe Rancourt, tlw Joint Engineering Council of Boston's Rancourt Consult­(JEC) and the Society of Women ing, will talk on "Creative vs. Engineers (SWE). is being held Linear Thinking." Also attend­on Wed., Sept. 20. ing are Dean Marley and Dean 
According to Collmm Templin, Michel. vice pn~sident of SWE. Industry Students are seated with a Day consists of two parts. In preferred company related to thn first half of the day there their major, Templin said. One­will bP a job fair held on the hundred twenty students are first and sncond noors of the expected to attend the banquet. Fitzpatrick llall of Engineering There will be one company from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. per table, usually 2 or 3 repre­
The fair provides students sentatives from that company, with the opportunity to give and approximately 5 or 6 stu­companies their resumes. dents. This arrangement allows Almost 40 companies will be the students to get a closer represented, more than any look at certain companies and other year, Templin stated. to discover what they are look­
The job fair will be "focusing ing for, according to Templin. on engineering students, but The companies represent all everybody's welcome," she ex­fields of engineering, and also a 
AP Photo
plained. few outside of engineering. 
The second portion of Indus­They include: IBM, Ford, Gen­try Day includes a mixer at 6 eral Motors, Proctor & Gamble, 
A group of Vietnamese soldiers riding atop an armoured personnel carrier as they tour downtown Phnom 
p.m. followed by a banquet at 
Penh in Cambodia.
6:30 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. see JEC I page 4 

Tuesday, September 19, 1989
r 
page 2 The Observer 
Ethics enforcement is not only the job of the executive 


WORLD BRIEFS 
A woman construction worker in Cairns. Australia filed a lawsuit Monday claiming she was fired .because her good looks distracted male employees and caused them to have accidents on the job. "Is it my fault? I shouldn't get the sack because men can't keep their minds on the job," said 24-year-old Tanya Graovac, who brought the action at the Human Rights and Equal Opportu­nity Commission. Ms. Graovac, who was dismissed in June, told the paper she didn't mind "wolf whistles" and suggestive remarks from male workers but that she was not prepared to accept being fired for being too good-looking. 
One of Italy's leading museums has called the extermi­nator to halt an invasion of woodworms, officials said Mon­day.The Borghese Gallery, located in Villa Borghese Park near the Piazza del Popolo, will be closed Sept. 26 to Oct. 10 for extensive wood worm extermination, said Luigi Conte of the Ministry of Cul­ture.The museum displays paintings and sculptures dating from Roman times to the 19th century, including masterpieces by Botti­celli and Caravaggio. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
The United States intends to give Hungary permanent most-favored nation trade status, President Bush said Monday. In Budapest, Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher said the United States was negotiating toward a comprehensive pact to "support Hungary's efforts to develop a freer political system and to create and expand private enterprise," said Mosbacher, who is in Bu­dapest for talks with Hungarian officials. 
Dorothy Walker Bush, the president's 88-year-old mother, was admitted to Greenwich Hospital in Conn. with pneumonia Monday. a White House spokeswoman said."She's in stable condi­tion and is expected to improve." said Alixe Glen."She had not been feeling well last week. She had been suffering a mild respira­tory condition," Brown said. Mrs. Bush was "resting comfort­ably" Monday afternoon, Brown said. 
Actor Efrem Zimbalist Jr. of "The FBI" television series, testified Monday in Charlotte, N.C. that the PTL board of direc­tors. on which he once served, was little more than a rubber stamp for television evangelist Jim Bakker."It was called a board of dimctors, but at no time did it operate like one," said Zimbal­ist. Asked if he recalled approving a $390,000 bonus for Bakker, Zimbalist said, "Oh no. oh no." 
Zsa Zsa Gabor kept her lip buttoned Monday regarding hAr trial on a charge of slapping a policeman. taking to heart a judge's warning that further comments about the case could land hAr in trouble.'Tm under gagging order," Miss Gabor told re­porters at Beverly Hills Municipal Court, where her trial began its second week.She is charged with four misdemeanor charges: bat­tery on a police officer, disobeying an officer's orders, driving with an expired license and having an open container of alcohol in her car. If convicted, she faces a possible 18 months in jaii.Last week, Miss Gabor said she was afraid of going to jail because of lesbians there. 
WEATHER 
Sunny 
Sunny and mild today with highs in the upper 70's. 


ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On September 19: 
Closings for Monday, Sept. 18, 1989

e In 1881: James Madison, the 
20th president of the U.S. died 
of wounds inflicted by an as­
sassin eleven weeks earlier. 
e In 1959: Soviet leader Nikita Khruschev became angered during a visit to Los Angeles 

S&P 500 {} 2.35 to 352.00 

that -for security reasons -he 
Currency exchange

would not be allowed to visit Disneyland. 
Mark {} .44 to 51.30 DMI$ e In 1985: The first of a pair 
Yen if .38 to 68.68 ¥1$ 

of devastating earthquakes 
Pound 1/-.0075 to 1.5725 $1£

that claimed at least 6,000 lives struck Mexico City. 
Precious Metals

e Ten years ago: The U.S. House of Representatives first 
Gold -.Q. $2.40 to $366.50 I oz. 

passed, then rejected, an 
Silver-.Q. 2.2¢ to $516.30 I oz.

amendment giving itself and top-paid government bureau­
Source: Prudential Bache Secunt1es 

crats a 7 percent cost-of-living pay increase. 
Information comp1led from Observer w~res and Observer staff reports 
Just a few short weeks ago the United 
States Department of Housing and Urban De­
velopment came under fire for wrongdoing and 
misuse of funds, problems which apparently 
have plagued the department since the Carter 
administration and are just now coming to 
light. 
Ironically, the wrongdoing was uncovered 
by the current administration and exposed 
problems which occurred largely during the 
Reagan administration. Congress. however, 
jumped at the chance to pick up the ball and 
throw shots at the executive branch agency. 
asking how and why such ethical misdeeds could 
possibly have taken place. 
What were the allegations of wrongdoing at 
BUD? In sum, that money did not go where it 
was needed. Federal money which could have 
made a sizable impact in helping the poor find 
housing went instead for development projects 
which were unneeded and benefitted only the de­
velopers. The criteria often used in the dis­
bursement of funds was who knew who, not 
where the money would be best spent. 
On the surface these problems seem serious 
and hefty indeed. The waste by government of 
billions of taxpayer dollars deserves the atten­
tion of every American, and demands an investi­
gation. What is even more serious, however, is 
that Congress is just as guilty in the BUD scan­
dal yet will probably slip by without any blame 
for its role in the sticky affair. . 
The charges at HUD are influence peddling, 
yet Congress engages in its own influence ped­
dling openly, at HUD and at other executive 
branch agencies, on a daily basis, and without 
a word of protest from the media or the Ameri­
can public. Top-level HUD officials are accused 
of being "lobbied" by powerful outside interests 
(an accusation which is true), yet Congress lob­
bies executive branch agencies daily on behalf of 
its constituents without any political backfire. 
Congressmen are encouraged and even ex­pected by their constituents to use their influ­ence in securing lucrative federal grants or de­velopment projects for their home district. In the public's eyes, the securing of a BUD grant worth millions of dollars by a Congressman for his district is not only good but will help ensure his reelection. In contrast, the same practice by those outside the government is referred to as unethical. Of course, they are both unethical. Whence the double standard? 
The HUD affair is a good example of how on a larger scale Congress has used a double standard to judge the activities of the executive branch, a standard it would never dream of ap­plying to itself. The double standard often turns up in the "criminalization" of policy differences between members of Congress and members of the administration. This criminalization dates back to the 1978 Ethics in Government Act, one of the many constitutionally suspect laws passed during the post-Watergate and post­Vietnam war era when presidential power was at its lowest point in our history (other suspect 
'The waste... of billions of taxpayer dollars deserves the attention of every American.' 
Dave Bruner Viewpoint Editor 
laws include the War Powers Resolution and 
the Budget and Impoundment Act.) The Ethics 
in Government Act launched the era of the inde­
pendent counsel, or more accurately, the special 
prosecutor. 

Special prosecutors enjoy nearly limitless power to investigate alleged "ethical" lapses of executive branch officials without any thought of due process. The appointment of a special prosecutor is triggered automatically by law whenever there is the "grounds to investigate" a particular person, not whether there is probable cause that a crime has been committed. This so turns the traditional standard of justice on its head as to threaten the stability of our constitu­tionally created government, and seriously threatens civil rights often taken for granted in this country. A crime is not investigated to find a guilty party, but rather a person is investi­gated to determine if he or she has committed a crime. 
Government arguably has no greater power over the citizens of this country than the power to prosecute. The power to check prosecutors was given to the executive branch, to prevent a prosecutor from being overtaken by an excess of ambition, but independent counsels are inten­tionally freed from such oversight so that they may target executive branch officials. This has made it possible for members of Congress, most notably Democratic members, to target admin­istration officials with criminal investigations when little or no evidence of wrongdoing exists. Even if the special prosecutor. using his or her nearly unlimited resources, fails to turn up any evidence, the damage done to a person's reputa­tion is long-lasting. After being cleared of any wrongdoing after a zealous special prosecutor investigation, for example, former Labor Secre­tary Ray Donovan could only ask which office he could go to to "get his reputation back." 
Certainly not to the offices of the members of Congress. With the special prosecutor the legislative branch has usurped the constitutional perogatives of the executive {though with a certain degree of presidential acquiescence.) Congress should recognize its mistake and abolish the special prosecutor, and President Bush should begin now to protect his administration from political attacks from Congress disguised as charges of ethical wrongdoing. 
OF INTEREST 
All Saint Mary's students interested in being photographers for The Observilr should attend a meeting Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. in the Holy Cross Hall lobby. If you have any questions call Susy at 284-4352. 
WVFI staff meeting is today at s p.m. in the Montgomery Theater of LaFortune. All DJ's and substitutes must attend or call Tim at 239­6888. 
Women United for Justice and Peace will hold their first meeting today at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. All interested women and men of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are invited to attend and discuss plans for the semester. 
Campus Bible Study's first meeting will be held today, Sept. 19, at 7 p.m. (Bring your bible). 
Juniors interested in getting involved with a class service project should come to the in­formational and sign-up meeting today at 7:30 
p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. For more information call Terry Loughran 283-1712 or Christy Anderson 283-3938. 
Voting for District One senator is today from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. and 5-7 p.m.. District One includes Alumni, Holy Cross, Keenan, Lewis, Sorin, Stanford, Walsh, and Old College. Candidates are Zack Hudgins and Joe Lacher of Keenan Hall and Lisa Bostwick of Walsh Hall. 
The Northern Indiana Council would like to keep in contact with all Eagle Scouts. Please contact David Michael at 221 Flanner (283-1 008) with your name and campus ad­dress, or the council office at 1-800-62SCOUT. 

Design Editor ....................... Kathy Gliwa Design Assitant .......... Cheever Griffin Typesetters. Bernard Brenninkmeyer ...................................................... Dan Towers 
News Editor ........•..•. Christine Walsh News Copy Editor....... Janice O'Leary 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Sports Copy Editor... Molly Mahoney Viewpoint Copy Editor..... Kim Skiles
(219) 239-7471 
Viewpoint Layout. ...... Molly Schwartz Accent Designer ............... Sarah Fiske Photographer ......................... Eric Bailey Ads Deslgner .......................... Val PolettoThe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
.................. Mindy Breen,Shannon Roach
during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
........................ Ryan Roberts,Shelia Jones 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­···············-···········--Mary Sain,Anita Covelli 
chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wr~ing The Observer. The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

~---------------------·-~--~ ------------------------~­
Tuesday, September 19, 1989 The Observer page 3 

1989-1990 
OLD COLLEGE NICtiTo 

THE OLD COLLEGE "Credle of the University" 
f'>uilt in 1843 !I monthly time of shared hospitality. di€>Cussion and prayer welcomif18 colle5e students and others who are explorin8 an interest in pursuin8 a process of di€>Cernin8 a vocation to ministry and reli5ious life in Iioly Cross. 
Notre Dame students are invited lo each and all of these evenif18S. Each presentation be5ins al 7:00 pm and concludes at 8:00 pm. 6hared prayer or celebration of the Eucharist will follow al 8:15 pm and all are welcome as welL 
Old Colle5e is localed on the Notre Dame campus facif18 6t. Mary Lake immediately behind lhe Lo8 Chapel and Architecture ])ui\difi8. 
'No kickbacks' with Mich. tix 
By SARA MARLEY Senior Staff Reporter 
The results of a Student Union Board investigation into alleged misconduct during the distribution of student tickets for the football game against Michigan were announced at Monday's Student Senate meet­ing. 
SUB manager Raja Singh concluded that no kickbacks were offered in return for identification cards to enter in the ticket lottery, as was al­leged in a letter which appeared in The Observer on Sept. 12. 
The letter's writer alleged that SUB members entered 
i.d.'s into the lottery with the intent of giving kickbacks to the card's holder should the student win tickets. 
According to Student Body President Matt Breslin, "No kickbacks were planned. Ap­proximately ten i.d. 's were en­tered without the person actu­ally coming into the office. None of the tickets won. It was an unfortunate incident, but it was not as serious as the inci­dent two years ago." 
Singh and Breslin believe the SUB member in question en­tered i.d. cards in the lottery without the card's holder com­ing to the SUB office but did not plan or deliver any reward for this and was unaware that such activity was not allowed. 
Due to the long hours offered for students to enter the lottery and the long lines, a number of students worked the lottery who were unfamiliar with the 
The Observer Is always lqqklng fqr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 
Tuesday. &pL 19 7:00 pm Opportunities for ministry 
in the Church today Tuesday. Ocl. 10 7:00 pm Discerning a Vocation: 
How to Make a Decision Tuesday. Nov. 14 7:00 pm Religious Life: Why Take Vows~ 
Tuesday. Dec 12 7:00 pm Priesthood: What is a Priest'? 
Tuesday. Jan. 23 7:00 pm Brotherhood in tloly Cross: What il\ a brother'? 
Tuesday. Feb. 20 7:00 pm Enlerin3 Holy CfCJ<'>I\ II ND '81 Ilium's Perspective 'l'uc-.hC!ay, March 20 7:00 pm Holy Cross 0 Nolre Dame: 150 Years of History Tuesday. April 17 7.00 pm 'llle MiliSionary Church: tlo\y Cross in Easl llfrica 
For more information: fr. John Conley. C6C Box 541 Notre Dame. IN 
(219) 239-6385 
ticket distribution policy. 
SUB concluded that the inci­dent resulted from the ticket policy being unclear. 
A new policy, which should be completed by the time tickets for the Purdue game go on sale next week, tentatively will allow each student to present only his own i.d. and one other. 
Also, only a limited number of SUB members wlll nave access to the list of students who have entered the lottery and fewer hours will be offered so only students familiar with ticket distribution will staff the pro­cedure. 
Singh also said that the hotel portion of the roadtrip package had to be cancelled due to a miscommunication with the ho­tel. Those tickets were sold on a first-come, first-served basis and the students who pur­chased the package were pro­vided with a game ticket and bus trip to Ann Arbor. 
Victor DeFrancis of Om­budsman (OBUD) announced the candidates for the District 1 Student Senate election to be held today from 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
District 1 includes Alumni, Holy Cross, Keenan, Lewis, Old College, Sorin, Stanford and Walsh. 
Zack Hudgins and Joe Lacher of Keenan and Lisa Bostwick of Walsh are running for the seat. 
Breslin and District 2 Student Senator Mike Gaffney met with Gina Mahony, a transfer stu­dent who wants to implement a student escort service at Notre 

Holy+ fr. Paul Doyle. C6C Old Colle5e
Cross~ 

Notre Dame, IN
Priests& 

(219) 239-6302 Dame similar to that at the in­stitution from which she trans­ferred. 

The service would consist of students who ,request an escort to be accompanied to their destinations on campus from dusk until midnight or 1 a.m. 
Breslin spoke to Assistant Di­rector of Security Phil Johnson, who supports such a plan and said Security would cooperate with the service. 
Breslin also has a meeting scheduled with Thomas Mason, vice president for business af­fairs, about possibly receiving University funds to run a stu­dent escort service. 
In other business, appoint­ments for senior portraits can still be made this week for sit­tings next week. 
Tickets are also still available for tonight's lecture by Robert McFarlane and Wednesday's lecture by Daniel Ellsberg. Tickets may be purchased at the LaFortune information desk. 
Fr. Richard Warner. C&C Director. Campus Ministry Fr. Nicholas llyo. CoC AssL Prof. P.L.o. or. Jean Lenz. Oof AssL VP otudenl 1\fTairl\ Fr. Michael Himel\ llsroc. Pro!'.. Theolo8)' Bro. John Plalle. COC Bro J=ph Codfrey. C&. · Bro. 6tephen Noni. C&..' 
t'r Jame~> Kms. C&.:: llssi. Rector. Dilkln Hall Dr. Thonms 6chlerelh Prof. American 6t.udiel\ t'r. Charles Cordon. CoC llssi. Rector. tloly Croos Hall 
Grad. student to get NASA grant 
Special to the Observer tant professor of English at the 
University of Notre Dame, has 
Lance Charles Perez of been appointed executive officer Springfield, Va., a graduate and coordinator of the Gender student in electrical and com­Studies Program in the College puter engineering at the Uni­of Arts and Letters. versity of Notre Dame, has re­Halischak graduated from ceived a training grant from Bowling Green University and the National Aeronautics and obtained a master's degree Space Administration (NASA). there before earning a Ph. D. in 
Perez, who began graduate English from Notre Dame in study at Notre Dame in 1987, is 1982. Her dissertation topic pursuing a doctoral degree un­was the history of feminist lit­der the direction of Daniel erary criticism. From 1982 to Costello, chairman and profes­1984 she was assistant profes­sor of electrical and computer sor of English at the University engineering at Notre Dame. His of Colorado in Colorado NASA grant will support his re­Springs, teaching courses on search in the performance of women's literature and serving bandwidth efficient trellis­on women's studies and codes in concatenated coding women's lecture committees. 
systems. She returned to Notre Dame in Kathleen Halischak, academic 1984 to teach courses on gen­advisor andlllliiillijl-.ijiiilliiliimr 
der in literature and to serve as 

The Observer/M.D. Short
The candy kid 
Daniel Boughton, a second-grader at St. Joe's, sells candy to Kevin Christiano, professor of sociology, to raise money for school. 
an academic advisor. In 1987, Halischak served as moderator for a special lecture series ti­tled "Feminist Criticism: The Literary Virtues of Re-reading." 
The College of Arts and Let­ters' Gender Studies Program was instituted last year. In ad­dition to sponsoring a variety of lectures and seminars exam­ining gender in societalrela-=­tionships, the program is re­sponsible for a 15-credit, inter­disciplinary Gender Studies concentration which draws faculty and course offerings from most departments in the College. 
Join The Observer 
page 4 

The Observer Tuesday, September 19, 1989 
College students watch fewer hours of TV 
Associated Press last spring of 1 ,014 students for daytime soap opnras. NEW YOHK-NBC, in what ages 18-24 at 50 four-year may not prove a surprise, colleges and universities na­
NBC's study was the latest 
asserted Monday that college tionwide. in recent network efforts to students like television. 
study viewing audiences that 
The network also said col­Among other things, the traditionally haven't been in­lege students are under· study found that 96 percent of cluded in the national Nielsen counted in the Nielsen ratings the students it polled wateh audience cstimatm;. and would have a substantial TV; they watch it 1.8 hours a impact in the Nielsens were day compared to the national 
The national NiAisens onlythey included in national audi· viewing average of nearly count viewers in homes, not in ence estimates. seven hours; more mains 
eollege dorms, hotel rooms, NBC's conclusions were watch late-night TV than fe· and such places as sports based on a telephone survey males, and the opposite is trun bars. 
Shot 
continued from page 1 
had their eases referred to thn Park Vinw juvenile systPrn, said Hurley. lie said Park View will review thn cases and then make a deeision n~garding the youths. 
"It's not hard for anyone to gnt a gun anywhere," said llurley. lie said the suspect probably got the gun in a bur­glary or through the black market. "Thern 's far too many handguns out tlwre in the pos­session of thn wrong pnopln." 
llurley said he does not think the incident was gang-related, 

Hugo 
::ontinued from page 1 It said hurricane warnings were discontinued for Puerto Hico and the U.S. and British Virgin Islands but warnings remain in effect for northeast­ern Dominican Hnpublic and the southern Bahamas including the Turks and Caicos islands. Hugo appears to be on a 
but that there were different 
little groups in the area. lle 
said the suspects did not neces­
sarily know each other. 

"South Bend is not unlike any other city," said Hurley. "Don't walk in unfamiliar neigbor­hoods late at night." I le added that students are especially vulnerable after they have been drinking alchohol. 
"This incident happened when 15 people confronted two large people in a well-lit, well-trav­eled area-use your head," said Hurley. 
Hurley said students need to take juvenile crimes more seri­ously and they should not hesis­tate to call Security. 
course to the northwest at 12 mph; that general motion is ex­pected to continue for 24 hours, the forecast said. 
It said maximum sustained winds are near 115 mph with hurricane-force winds extend­ing up to 75 miles from the cen­ter with tropical storm-winds extending for up to 200 miles. 
Tropical Storm Iris rose in the wake of Hugo and forecast­ers advised residents of the 
[}={]~~~w ~~ (Rilf[}={][Q)~w '¥'~©~~~ 
-WELL,MA YBE NOT THIS HAPPY­
[L(Q)VJ~~W©GJJ~ 
~©©ffi'al~~~ 


We are fallll•ly 
Notre Dame has proclaimed academic year 1989-90 to be the YEAR OF THE FAMILY. What family? Yours? Sly's? Ward and )une and Wally and the Beaver, or Eddie's family (did he really have one?)? 
The stated purpose of the Year of the Family is to focus and reflect on the family from a number of perspectives, including communica­tion, celebration, deliberation, education and action. 
One of the most quickly developing new areas of growth in the mental health field is the area of family systems, with particular emphasis on dysfunctional and shame-based family systems. 
Our first view of life and our frame of refer­ence for the world comes through what's being called our family system. Sometimes that view is quite healthy. It suggests that each person in the family, while an important member, is also a full individual in his or her own right. While each member has responsibilities to the family unit, each member also has rights and an iden­tity that set him or her apart from the family unit. 
In the fully functional family, members sup­port each others' rights and identity without smothering. Each member is committed (or learns to become committed, to the degree age and personal development allow), to the well being of each other member's growth to full, individual potential. 
In the healthy, functional family there is a balance between autonomy and dependence. Self-esteem is attained and social and sexual training is well begun. Individuals are allowed and encouraged to develop what the field calls "clearly marked ego boundaries." That means members have the right to appropriately say "no" as well as "yes" without being shamed, to appropriately say "I won't " or "I want" without guilt, punishment or abuse. 
But chances are, the experts say, the fully functional family doesn't exist. Maybe not any­where. Maybe it never did. Maybe it never will. The suggestion is that all families have some battered Leeward Islands to keep a close watch on the new storm. They said Iris, with 50 mph winds, was about 300 miles east of the Leeward Is­lands Monday night and was moving north-northwest at about 18 mph. 

The Hurricane Center said swirling weather patterns left by Hugo made further strengthening unlikely for Iris through Tuesday evening. 
JEC 
continued from page 1 
Boeing, Exxon, Arthur Ander­son, and Solomon Brothers. Kathryn Pirrotta, in charge of advertising for Industry Day, 
Join The 

said, "We're really hoping all the engineers attend beeause it's an excellent opportunity for future employment." 
Pirrotta was offered a sum­mer internship herself with Dow Corning as a result of last year's Industry Day. 
Observer 
SPEECH MEETING 
TUESDAY, SEPT. 19 8-10 PM FOSTER ROOM IN LAFORTUNE 
Calllpus Ministry and You 

0f\.'1PUS

----------------------MINISW
•' 

level of dysfunction, if compared to the pro­
posed norms of functionality and health. 
So what are we celebrating this year? A fig­ment? A non-entity? An impossibility? Just as we celebrate mythical national championships, so we celebrate the mythical family? 
Let's accept the suggestion that the fully func­tioning family is conceptual theory and does not exist in practice. Rather, what seem to exist are families in varying degrees of health. For the moment, let's accept that. 
Then for us the year of the family can be a time to deliberate on where our own families are on the functional scale and how that place­ment has affected us and our outlook on life. 
It can be a time to educate ourselves on the role family plays in our development and out­look, and make some personal decisions about how we want those developments and outlooks to continue or change. 
During the year of the family it might be of value to read some books that particularly ad­dress these issues, both so we can begin a pro· gram of recovery from dysfunctionality if such is called for and so we can begin to plan for how we will raise our own families, should we have them. Such a book list might include Fac­ing Shame: Families in Recovery by Merle Fos­sum and Marily Mason and Bradshaw on: the Family, A revolutionary way of self-discovery by John Bradshaw (Bradshaw's famed PBS series is also on videotape, and can be arranged for viewing through the Office of Campus Ministry). 
It might be of value to discuss some of these issues with a trusted advisor or spiritual direc­tor. Or join one of the groups offen~d at the Counseling Center. They have conf}dential sup­port groups for persons whose lives have been affected by the drinking or oth~ behaviors or pathologies of family members. 
Finally, we might get to a point during the year where honest appreciation and love can be communicated to our family in some new, meaningful ways and we can celebrate with Sly and his family that WE ARE FAMILY! Dysfunc­tional, perhaps. Imperfect, certainly! Broken, maybe. But, still, we celebrate that we are and we want to be family. 
Year of the Family  

UPCOMING ACTIVITIES Related to the Year of the Family Adult Choldren of Alcoholics Groups Mondays 3:30 · 5 p.m. and Tues­days 3. 4:30p.m. Counseling Cenrer. Please call for a screening appoint­ment (239-7336). September 20th: Parenring Education Classes/S~pport Group· Child Care. Noon· 1:15 pm. Notre Dame Room of La Fortune. September 21st: Follow·up discussion of Sept. 20th class. Noon·1: 15 pm, Sorin Room. LaFortune. September 22nd "Legislation and Family Values· by Thomas Long. 3 p.m .. Hayes· Healy Auditorium. Other September 20th Meeting of persons interested in issues concerning Jewish students at Notre Dame, especially planning tor holiday services and social involve­ments. 7p.m.. Campus Ministry Conference Room. Badin. Lecture: "Appropnate Responses of Government Officials to Wrongful War.· Oanoel Ellsberg. 8 p.m .. Washongton Hall. September 23rd: 5 p.m. Celebration of Eucharist. Stepan Center. Father Daniel Jenky presiding. September 24th: 10 a.m. Celebration of the Euchanst. Stepan Center. Father Danoel Jenky. presiding 1 t :45 am Celebration of the Eucharist. Stepan Center. Father E. Wm. Beauchamp, presiding.  

Brought to you weekly by the Office of Campus Ministry and The Observer 
L_ 
--~------~--.........-~--------------------~ ~ -~----~------~--------------­
Tuesday, September 19, 1989 The Observer 
page 5 
Hesburgh helps expose South African murder 
By BRADLEY GALKO 
Commission on Independence

Staff Reporter 
for Namibia, of which Hes­

President Emeritus Father burgh is a member. The com­Theodore llesburgh exposed a mission includes other such secret murder by the South dignitaries as Congressman Afriean-backed police of that Howard Wolpe (D-Mich.), nation while working on a former ambassador to the commission that investigated United Nations Donald Henry, political conditions in the and former attorney general southwest African country of and secretary of defense Elliot Namibia in August. Richardson. 
"Thn really big thing we did." The Commission is a project said llesburgh, "was put the of the Lawyers' Committee for finger on the Koveoet." The Civil Rights Under Law, which Kovnoet is the mostly black, is a Washington D.C. based South African-backed com­group of lawyers, explafned mando troop unit, explained llesburgh. He was one of 12 llnsburgh, that is part of the observers drawn from the Namibian police force. commission who traveled to 
According to llesburgh, they Namibia in August to assist the sn<TPtly killed a former leader United Nations and Namibia in of tlw South West African Peo­their progress toward the plp's Organization (tlw leading establishment of a freely opposition party in Namibia) in elected government this thP middlt~ of th1~ night. November. 
Tlw arrnst and incarceration llesburgh said the commis­of tlw Koveont was largely the sion is attempting to resolve n~sult of tlw actions of the "the problems of an election, a 
'I love New York' credit card supported by assemblyman 
Associated Press competitivn interest rates. But 
the cards would be embossed 

BUFFALO, N.Y. -When with different tourist attrac­shoppers say "charge it," a tions, said Schimminger. statn lawmaker wants them to For example, a card issued in say "I Love New York" at the Niagara Falls would have a same time. picture of the famous cascade 
An "I Love New York" credit and a card issued in New York card could raise money for the City would have the Empire state. boost state pride and State Building, Schimminger promotn tourism, says Assem­said. blyman Hobin Schimminger, who is promoting the idea. "This is a way to raise mil­
The card would work in the lions of dollars in revenue with­same way any major credit out hiking taxes," he said Mon­card operates and would have day. 
constituent assembly after the peal the birth certificate re­counting (of votes)." Verifica­election. and the writing of a quirement.. tion is done by matching voter constitution." "To get all those people regis­thumb prints due to high illit­"We traveled the whole coun­tered is a big job," said Hes­eracy, explained Hesburgh, a try," said Hesburgh, "and vis­burgh. However, he felt that 70 very lengthy process. However ited just anyone who had any­to 80 percent could be regis­the initial counting of votes thing to do with this (election)." tered through the commission's could be done in each voting Political parties, local officials, use of mobile registration facil­district, he explained, thus 
U.N. officials, unions, media, ities. speeding the process and cut­and local residents were among Hesburgh explained that the ting down on the likelihood of the groups that Hesburgh said job of the commission is two­tampering of the results, the observers spoke with. fold. "First, to get everyone adding credibility to the elec­
"The big problem... was to registered and that's largely tion. get these people (Namibian citi­been done," he said, "second, to "For more than a decade, zens) registered because 60 get a free election." He added Namibia (also known as South­percent of them are illiterate," that there are " a lot of obsta­West Africa) has been the scene said Hesburgh. He said a fur­cles fighting them... (but) I sus­of a war between the occupying ther obstacle to voter registra­pect we'll get some of those forces of South Africa and tion was a government re­changed." guerillas of the South-West quirement of birth or baptismal To help insure a free election, Africa People's Organization certificates for registration. Hesburgh said, "We insisted (to (SWAPO). 
U.N. and local government offi­South Africa's occupation 
"These people weren't born in cials) that both political parties and administration of the coun­hospitals," explained Hesburgh, be there all day long during the try has been declared illegal by "they were born out in the voting process and present both the U.N. and the Interna­bush," but he added that pres­when the votes are counted." tional Court of Justice. Cur­sure from the commission He said, "We also insisted on rently, a U.N.-supervised cease caused the government to re-a separate verification and fire is in place. 
Ky. teen takes classmates hostage 
an.d another at a window, who was described as a good
Associated Press 
student. 

McKEE, Ky. -An armed Police said they were unsure te.en-ager apparently acting The teen-ager, whose only what charges would be lodged out the scenario to a Stephen request to police was to speak state police said. 
against Pierce. He was taken King novel stalked into a high tohis father, told his hostages 
to a juvenile holding center in school classroom and took 11 .he did not want to hurt any­the Clay County Jail in nearby
classmates hostage Monday, one. The final two hostages 
Manchester. McKee is a town 
After a daylong standoff, he were freed shortly after 5 p.m. of 250 people about 50 miles released them all and surren­EDT, and the youth gave up southeast of Lexington in the 
dered. an hour and a half later, au­Appalachian foothills. 
No one was injured tn the dtorities said. 
confrontation, which ):)egan 
"He was unbalanced," said about 9:50a.m. and ended ·hostll;ge-taker was state police Detective Bob 6:3!1 p.m.. · police said. ] by police as Dustin Stephens, who negotiated with youth fired two shots, on~fat. ce~a.17·year~old senior at Pierce throughout the day at the ceiling of the classroom kson County High School Jackson County High School. 
MAY IS JUST AROUND 
Ht>re we are talking about May and Lou hasn't playt>d USC. Digger has yet to hold a

• 
basketball practice. And you havfn'! !l single clue where you'll spend Spring Bre!lk. 
The hard realitv of life is that vour senior vear will be over 
. . 
before you realize it. (Doesn't it seem like just yesterday that you were wandering around South Bend as a freshman'? I That's where we come in. Each year The May Depart­ment Stores Company hires bright, energetic, success­ful seniors from schools like Penn, Berkeley and Notre Dame. And we'd reallv like 

to meet rou. 
Wednesday, September 20, we'II be in the Dooley Room of the LaFortune Student Center (first floor) from 10:00 to 4:00. 
We'll answer questions like: 
What will I do on a typical 
day'? Will you train me'? Can 
I use my major in this job? 
And maybe most importantly, 
you'll meet a bunch of folks, 
who this time last year were worried about how they were going to get !o the Fiesta Bowl and where they were going to spend Spring Break! 
~ 
= 
~ 


The May Department Stores Company  
Lord & Taylor. 14 :-itat.. s  Robinson's. Los Angeles  May Company. Ohio  Meier & Frank, Portland. Ore.  
h,I..v's. Houston  Kaufmann's, Pittsburgh  G. Fox. Hartford  Sibley's. Rochester, N.Y.  
May Company. California  Famous-Barr, St. Louis  L.S. Ayrt>s, Indianapolis  Volume Shoe Corporation. 43 States  
Hecht's. WashinJ~;ton. ll.C.  Filene's, Boston  May D&E Denvt>r  May Merchandising Corporation, New York  

The Observer Tuesday, September 19, 1989
page 6 

We're BP America, one of the largest companies in the nation and part of the third largest oil company in the free world. But we're much more than oil. We're service 



• stations, chemicals, animal nutrition and industrial
mePIC8... 

products. And the heritage 
of two fine companies, the 
original Standard Oil
loP Accounting GPaduattJs 
Company and the U.S. 
operations of BP 
International, is behind us 
as we build a bright new 
future. 
BP America is seeking the 
best and brightest 
accountants from 
the 1989-90 class. We 
offer excellent career 
opportunities. 
We will be interviewing on 
campus on Wednesday, 
October 41h. Please visit 
Career and Placement 
Services for further 

information and to sign up 
BPAMERICA on our schedule. 
·--·-----·--­
---------.~-------­
Tuesday, September 19, 1989 The Observer 
page 7 


APPhoto

Rubble trouble 
The remains of the 7-story Mokdad Building which collapsed on its underground bunker, killing three people and wounding seven in Beirut. 

More funds for education unlikely 
Governors seek more 'flexibility' in spending 
Associated Press tion. We want to spend it as those federal dollars." wisely as p6ssible. ''I'm certainly not asking the "We want to make sure that president to reduce those fed­
WASHINGTON -Most gov­
when the federal government eral dollars bv anv mP.ans P.i­ernors are not expecting a does provide money to states ther," added Carruthers. "But commitment from President and local school districts it there are things that can be 
Bush to shell out more federal provides enough flexibility to done with deregulation that can 
dollars for the nation's schools, meet the needs of those local free up money that can be more two leaders of the National students in the schools," he properly utilized in the states." Governors' Association said said. Monday. 
For example, Carruthers Branstad said Bush already suggested that Medicaid, the 
NGA President Terry has indicated a "willingness to government health care pro­Branstad of Iowa and New do some more in helping 'at­gram for the poor, "become the Mexico Gov. Garrey Carruthers, risk' kids and programs like principle responsibility of the chairman of the Education the Head Start programs." federal government and educa­Commission of the States, said "The main focus of this will tion continue to be the principle 
most of the 50 governors at­not be on additional dollars but responsibility of the state gov­tending the education summit there will be discussions about ernment.'' next week in Charlottesville, it," Branstad said of the Va., will seek mainly to loosen summit. "There are some gov­According to Branstad, "Our the stranglehold of federal ernors who do feel strongly hope is that the summit will 
rules and regulations. Branstad about it and other governors help us focus attention of this and Carruthers are Republi­feel that is not a major area." nation on the critical issues of cans. education and will help us draw ''I'm not coming to the the support of the American Admitting that money is a summit to ask the president of people for some of the most 
sensitive issue that few can the United States for more fed­important and pressing chal­agree on, Branstad said, "I eral dollars," Carruthers said. lenges that we face." think there is a feeling that "I think that's wrong. I think 'The key to the future will be 
there is considerable amount of there's a lot of things that can goals that we establish in this money being spent on educa-be done without asking him for coming year," he added. 
1----Coupon expires 9/25/89---1 
' 21or1S)Jetial ' 
I 
I Bring this when buying a large cup ~ I of Colombo frozen yogurt and get a jsecond of equal or lesser value free. , :; 
0

I 
Coupon redeemable only at: ·~ " I Yes Its Yogurt :;~'
I Indian Ridge Pl~za FROZEN YOGURT I 
NO TICKETS NEEDED 
.AI.L.. 
Games 

Call TODAY for immediate CASH 
Grape Road Mishawaka 
1-800-828-8955
L __ _j ..__________•
Limit 1 per~m~ v~ithany other prom~ ~e~e~h-._ 

.......................................................... 
=~ WELCOME :
·r---•
to

·-' . 
: 

,. ..The integration of justice and peace concerns e
• 
~~ 
.

• ~ into everyday life CALENDAR OF EVENTS • e through formative educational experiences. (FOR INFORMATION: 239-5293) e 
• Sept. 20-Wednesday "Appropriate Responses of Government Officials to • • This is the overall purpose of the Center for Social 8:00p.m. Wrongful War"-Daniel Ellsberg-Co-sponsored by • 
e Concerns. It opened its doors in January 1983-a Washington Hall Student Union Board • e visible sign of the University's commitment to social • 
Sept. 22-Friday Application deadline for: • concerns. Appalachian Seminar (Oct. 22-28) • • Washington Seminar (Oct. 22-28) • 
e Under the auspices of the University's Institute for • Pastoral and Social Ministry, the Center offers a variety Sept. 25-Monday Urban Plunge registration begins (Forms at CSC) • 
• of service and social action opportunities, programs, Sept. 28 _Thursday Peace Corps Presentation e seminars and courses for students, faculty, alumni and 7:00-9:oo p.m. e 
• 
~­
.

• Oct. 3 _Tuesday Post-Graduation Service Opportunities Fair • • 7:00 -9:00 p.m. • 
_... • • ~ ~ FROM THE CENTER STAFF
• = • ~ ~ Oct. 4-Wednesday Celebration of the Feast of St. Francis • • te (Details will follow) • 
~ 1hope you will find this Calendar helpful. • ~ UDu The Center collaborates with many Oct. 6 _ Friday Friday Forum (for faculty and staff) •• to ~ Ur.,;. individuals and groups in providing 12:15-1:00 p.m. "Families and Our Worries About Them"-Joan Aldous • 
• D. ~ead ;r-· programs related to social concerns. An • Dt'hc:!t.ht insert in The Observer in the very near Oct. 6-8 COOL Conference (Campus Outreach Opportunity • 
League)
• 
future will provide details on our 

• 
n~


W'l~V'9. programs. Oct. 8 _Sunday CROP Walk-South Bend Community (Contact Hall • • ~~~ ~r ~ Community Service Commissioners for details) • 
• to ~ hc.lei.Hs We welcome your advice concerning •
• p ~ other programs and needs you see. You Oct. 10 _Tuesday Washington Seminar Orientation ~ 'u might also have been involved before 7:00-11:00 p.m. •
• 
~ eft, coming to Notre Dame with programs we •• in _\I~5t iC€. might develop here. Drop by and visit us. Oct. 11-Wednesday Appalachian Seminar Orientation • • ~ lL.-7:00-11:00p.m. • 
• Fill: We collaborate with all service programs oPPreSSed §o and other groups on campus to provide a Oct. 12-Thursday Hospitality Lunch-Logan Volunteer Guardians •
• ru e. comprehensive response to your desires 11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. • • to serve and increase your social Oct. 13 _Friday Urban Plunge registration closes • 
• awareness. Please call on us! • The Staff Oct. 17-Tuesday Washington Seminar Orientation • 
-· .
• __..,_ _ _.,...._..,..,,..,.___..,...._ of the Center for Social Concerns 7:00-11:00 p.m. •
..... . ...
~ 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 19, 1989
oage 8 




P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor ...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ....Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor ..... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor.. .. ................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ................. Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor .............. Christine Gill Controller ............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters. and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
LETTERS 
SUB clarifies football ticket controversy
/Jear Hditor: 
Thn Studnnt Union Board hasns its daily dndsions on a singln rritnrion: what will bnst suit tlw nPPds and wants of thn Notrn DamP studnnt body. In tlw rasn of thP Michigan tirkct lottl~ry, t~otHiut·tpd last wnnk by our organization, wn bnlinvnd that wn wnrP fulfilling this cri­tPrion. Tlw lottPry was sprPad owr fiw days to insurP that all studPnts wmild lw abln to entnr: ticknt numbPrs wPrn n~conlPd. and studPnt Ill's WPrP rnquin~d. and f'inally, if rhosnn, thn stu­dnnt would lw n~quirnd to pick up thn tirknts in pnrson with tlwir II> and tirkPt stub. In light of thn controls listPd abov1~. wn wnrn shorkPd to lwar of the wrong doing that was outlined in Mr . .Josnph Mnynr's IPtter on Snpt. 12. 11JHIJ. 
Action was taken immediatt~ly by the SUB l·:xecutive Council and Student Body President Matt Breslin to investigate the matter. and the individual within SUB was located. In contrast to Mr. Meyer's account, the action was the result of an individual rather than the entire organization, and the extent of the matter was much less severe than previously described. The result was that ten students were signed up for the lottery by an SUB member without coming to our offices in person. Of particular note, no football tickets were to be given to the SUB member if the lottery tickets were winners, thus confirming that no kick-backs were involved. Also, none of the tickets registered in this manner won the lottery. SUB does not, however, wish to jus­tify the actions of the individual by lessening the incident. In 
DOONESBURY 
rntrospnct, our system did al­
low a loophole that we did not 
foresee, and we sineerPiy apol­
ogize for any inequity it may 
have caused. 
In nwiewing our procedure 
for the lottery, we identified the 
primary problem as being a 
much greater dPmand than ex­
pected. At tlw onset of tlw dis­
tribution, our intent was to have a full-time staff person handle the pror~edurn every day. In liPu of the huge dPmand, we began to use SUB members for the distribution which resulted in more members having access to thn listings than prnviously plamwd and those members not being fully aware of our poli­eies. Wn believe that, although thn action was wrong, there was not intent on bnhalf of the individual to corrupt the sys­tem. We have also taken this opportunity to correct the loophole so that such an inci­dent will not occur again. 
In response to an additional error in the lottery, only 72 ticket numbers were published as winners when 75 sets were available. The additional three sets were sold to the alternates that were drawn and published on the same day as the original winners. 
If you have any further ques­tions regarding the details of the lottery or any other Student Union Board matter, please feel free to contact me at the SUB office, 2nd Floor LaFortune. Again, we apologize for our mistake and hope that, in the future, you will continue to trust the integrity of our orga­nization. 
Raja Singh Student Union Board Manager Sept. 14, 1989 

It takes two to raise a child 

Recycling preserves nature's beauty 
Dear Hditor: 
The misogynous nditorial cartoon which appnarPd on Sept. 14, '" You've come a long way baby... and so has your baby" is disgusting. It hlanws working women for thP (IP­plorabiP situation of latrh-kny childrPn and those with alrohol and drug probll'ms. It shows womPn awkwardly fulfilling tlwir role in soeinty. It suggnsts tlw pi<L<'P of a woman is at honw whiiP tlw mnn makn dl'ri­sions and arP the br!'ad-win­ners. 
Amazingly. tlw figun• of tlw fathPr is ronspiruously ahsl'nt. llavP WI' forgottnn it takns two to makl' and raisn a child'? MPn and woml'n arn Pqually I'P­sponsibiP for tlw WPII !wing ol' tlwir childrPn. It is only whPn WI' undPrstand that mr;n haw to partiripatP artiwly in !'hild rParing that wP arP going to I'OITI'rt thl' injusticns twrpP­tratPd against our most prP­l'ious n•sourrPs: tlw rhildn•n. 
.\'ill'ia U. /\nadon 
Romance l.anguagps /Jept. 
Sept. 15. I tJSCJ 
Dear h'ditor: 
The opening of thP 19H9-11J90 school year represents the start of a whole new tradition at Notre Dame ... recyding. Thanks to the efforts of dedicated stu­dents and the support of the University administration, col­lection bins for aluminum cans have been placed in all dormi­tories and most classroom buildings on campus. Only the start of a program which will eventually collect newspapers, glass, cardboard, computer paper, and plastics, this pro­gram relies on your continued cooperation for its success. 
The containers for cans are on all floors of most campus buildings. Please place only empty aluminum cans in these bins. A student representative will soon be available in every dorm to answer questions, promote your dorm's participa­tion, and coordinate all volun­teers. But you don't have to volunteer to help us out. All we ask is that you walk a few extra steps to the nearest collection bin, help maintain the cardboard containers, and be considerate of the efforts of 
your fnllow studr~nts. 
The nntirP Notre DamP com­munity can take pride in this program for it signil'ins a strong commitment to promot­ing rnsouren conservation and social responsibility. As politi­cians and world leaders come to grips with looming environ­mental problems, such as global warming (the green­house effect), ozone dnpletion (CFC'sJ. chemical dumping, and our national problem of landfill shortages, we as concerned in­dividuals can 'do our part'. For instance, recycled aluminum takes 95 percent less energy to produce, and whole forests can be saved through recycling pa­per products. In 1986 enough energy was saved through recy­cling aluminum to light Pitts­
burgh for six months, yet enough aluminum is thrown away in one year to replace an entire commercial airline fleet. By recycling our waste we can rPducl' tlw Pmissions of gn·Pn­housn gas1~s. thus bProming part of thP solution to a prob­lnm that thrPatnns to wrPak havor with rlimatns, growing 
an~as,  eronomies,  and  third  
world dnvdopnwnt.  
Hernember this is  our  rocy­ 

cling program. ono that is establishing an important tra­dition with implications far be­yond our campus. Your ro­sponse so far has bnen fantas­tic and wn are optimistic about the future of the "Hecyclin' lrish"--our campus wide reey­cling program. In the weeks to come we will keop you posted on where to bring other recy­clables for collection as we progress. Till then, be happy and join the "Heeyclin' Irish." 
Paul Ruesch and James Dailey Environmental Action Club "Recyclin' Irish" Team Sept. 15, 1989 
Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. Send your written thoughts to: 
Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
TtUM/3 

HONt;ST!-Y, 
5/[). [X) Y(}(JTHINK 
I'Vt;GOT A '3f-KJTAT 
7H&JOB~ 
[)0 YOU~ NO ON8 HOT. A IA/HO's AU-(])()Pte OF5QtlP IJITIONING ACT~. 7HI3 /389/IJe: U9.JALIJIMIJOSFROM M/3? 7H& OTH!iR. RX:I'Ut;7.1 
I !XJN'T 
THINK 
9-115 UJ4S CAUW
\ ;N. 

/A/HAT A 
/?UI&F. SHe f,(,()()W'V& O?CAMWM&. 
l'Mll3UIM3 
YaJ,BA88­
THISGI6'S YOURS TO 
LOSI31 
'The betrayal of a belief is not the same thing as ceasing to believe. If this were not so, there would be no moral standards in the world at all.' 
James Baldwin 
1924­

-----~---­

Accent
Tuesday, September 19, 1989 oal1e 9 
Aspects of World War II 
Two profs explore the effect of the war on their lives and ND 
PAIGE SMORON assistant accent editor 
"Politics. religion, and foot­ball tickets-they start wars." Maybe only in the eyes of Notre Dame's retired ticket man­ager-it's doubtful that two tickets to thn fiesta Bowl would have even prompted po­lice action-but maybe Bob Cahill knows something we don't. 

THE 50th ANNIVERSARY 
World War II was the first and last tinw Cahill IPI't the campus sinre 1928. and (lJ1P of tlw many IPssons lw IParrwd from it ~vas that NotrP Dame football tirkPts are Pqually in­fluential in wartinw. "NPar thn end of' tlw war. I was stationnd in North Carolina. rPally in the rniddiP of' nowlwrn. and I was dPspPrate to gPt bark anywhere rwar NotrP Dame. WPII. I got to talking with this of!irPr, and wlwn lw found out I was INotJ·n I>anw'sl tirkPt managPr, lw told mP how murh lw 'd always wantPd to S(H' !\iotrP DamP play Army at Yank(•p Stadium. I told him. '.Jprry, you gPt Ill<' to ()fPnviPw, you ran haw tirkets for lifp."' Cahill got to GIPnviPw. 
Cahill is only orw of the many nwn who )pft :'>Jotrn Dame for tlw war. .John FitzgPrald was a young profpssor at thP out­break of' tlw war. and he no­ticPd changps in the rlassroorn. "Tiw students were under great pressure...All students from 18 and up were eligible for the draft unless they were in the sciences, particularly physics. If the students were in good standing, they could get a de­ferment." 
Fitzgerald, like Cahill. also saw his share of the war. Each approached Navy Captain Burnett, who was in charge of the cadets on campus, and through him, they each went to Harvard for a six month pro­
rram in Naval was stationed at Port de Bouc had no choice about going in, in preparation for the invasion but I had a choice about what of Southern France. "I was in door I went in," emphasized charge of the Naval Fitzgerald. In that way, they Communications there for the consider themselves lucky to reception of ammunition," he have gotten a commission in said. "Our real function at that the Navy. But it was still " ... a point was communications with wrenching experience," Cahill the great convoys coming in for recalled. "I can remember leav­the Southern France invasion." ing on the ship, leaving my wife 
For Fitzgerald, one of his on the dock, going farther and most memorable wartime expe-farther away. But I can re­riences was a chance meeting member coming back, too." with the 'oint Commander-in-Even after the war ended, its 
"Later...friends would ask, 'Where were you in the war?' 'The New Hebrides Islands,' I'd tell them, and they'd give me a vague, 'Oh,: of course.' I told 'em, 'Hell, you don't know where the old ones are. 
Communications. Too soon, they received their assignments. 
Fitzgerald traveled all over the world. from Pearl Harbor to France, Italy, and even North Africa. Cahill was stationed for most of the war in the Southwest Pacific. "Later," he said, "friends would ask, 'Where were you in the war?' 'The New Hebrides Islands,' I'd tell them, and they'd give me a vague, 'Oh, of course.' I told 'em, 'Hell. you don't know where the old ones are."' 
Cahill and Fitzgerald saw rel­atively little combat, but they made large contributions be­hind the scenes. Part of Fitzgerald's team, for example, Chief of the Mediterranean forces, Field Marshall Alexander. Shortly after the fighting ended in Europe, Fitzgerald was invited to Alexander's villa on the Bay of Naples. "He came over and talked to me and started to tell me about the Potsdam Meeting ... this was before the peace treaty,'' he said. "The British knew that we had the bomb but the Russians didn't know it yet-so we thought. Alexander said the Russians did know and would be entering quickly against Japan." 
It was a devastating change to be faced with the reality of war after living on Notre Dame's sheltered campus. "I impact was felt on Notre Dame's campus. According to Fitzgerald, half of the student population consisted of return­ing veterans. For Fitzgerald, the war meant, even though he received a fellowship to study in Europe in 1939, that he didn't get there until 194 7. 

People everywhere put their lives on hold for the war, and the lucky ones kept their lives. Cahill, for one, lived to battle with those who might arguably be even more formidable than the Germans or the Japanese: Notre Dame Alumni who de­mand to see Michigan State. 
Robyn Simmons also con­tributed to this story. 

In 1945 the S.S. Notre Dame Victory was the 1OOOth wartime vessel ~l:_:::a:::,u~nc:::h.:.::e:.::d:_:i_:_:n__:_t~he::_:__P_:o.:..:rt::.:la:.:_n:.:d:..._-V.:..:a=:n.:..:c:.:o-=u-=-ve.:::...r_a_:_r_:e_:.:a_.---------~ 
Bold additions to art collection 
MICHAEL BAECHLER accent writer 
The Snite Museum of Art 
added a new sculpture to its 
permanent collection this week­
end as part of the opening of 
two new exhibitions,"David 
Hayes: Sculptures, Maquettes 
and Gouaches," and"Three 
Universities Collect: 20th 
Century Works on Paper." 
The Hayes exhibit was high­lighted Sunday by the unveiling of "Griffon," the 30-foot per­manent sculpture on the southwest lawn of the Suite Museum. 
Hayes, a 1953 Notre Dame alumnus, said, "In the last 20 years there's been a resurgence of art in public places. When art is a viable part of the cul­ture, not just confined to mu­seum interiors, anyone and ev­eryone sees that piece of sculp­ture. A little bit rubs off on you. That is the culture and aesthetic of art--it's unavoid­able." 
Other works by Hayes, includ­ing other sculptures and studies on paper, will also be dis­played. The show runs through Dec. 31. Both the Hayes exhibit and the 20th Century Art ex­hibit are free and open to the public. 
Besides learning a little bit more about the enormous sculpture in front of the mu­
seum, a visit to the galleries 

will offer a viewer the chance t 
see the works of a variety of 
well-known 20th century 
artists. 

The 20th Century show is a cooperative exhibit featuring works from Indiana University, the University of Kentucky and the University of Notre Dame. Approximately 120 works will be shown representing many of the styles of 20th century art. 
Works by Picasso, Warhol, Matisse, Kandinsky, Stella, 

Pollock and Jasper Johns are just a sample of those on dis­play. A variety of styles, from etchings to watercolor to pape construction can be seen. The show will run through Nov. 12. 
Two related lectures are scheduled at the Snite Museum: "Selected 20th Century Art and Artists: Themes and Variations" by Harold Zisla on Oct. 5 at 4:15 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium and "20th Century Works on Paper: Stylistic Trends from Cubism t the Present" by Barbara Bartosik on Oct. 24 at noon in the O'Shaughnessy Gallery. Both lectures are free and ope to the public. 
The Snite Museum of Art is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Sunday from 1 to 4 p.m .. 
-

Tuesday, September 19, 1989
The Observer
page 10 

The Observer accepts classif1eds every bus1ness day from 1oam. until 4 p m at the Notre Dame off1ce. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 un1113 p m. at the Sa1nt Mary's office Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class1f1eds IS 3 p.m. All class1f1eds must
Classifieds be prepa1d The charge IS 10 cents per f1ve characters per day 

6 BEDROOM HSE 8 BLKS FROM HELP EDUCATE MY NEED 4 TIX FOR Ml STATE! NEEDED: Stu. NAVY. Have PITT or NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. ST 
ND. ROOMS FOR RENT OR TAKE CULTURALLY REPRESSED PLEASE CALL #3803 $$$. Contact Matt X2647 Sleds PLEASE!! I!!! MY LITTLE SIS IS 
NOTICES 

ENTIRE HSE. 288-3613. RELATIVES FROM WYOMING BY COMING OUT+ PARENTS WILL SELLING ME 2 GA'S TO MICH ST. NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN KILL ME IF SHE DOES'NT GO. 
TYPING 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY X1859 STATE GAME~ ~ILL PAY CASH need 8 Mich St Ga's. Rick #1795 WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE Pickup & Delivery 
219-291-7153. OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR TIXI CALL MATT #3489 277-7406 
WE DESPERATELY NEED NAVY GAME. CALL TIM, IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME. FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143. MICH ST GA'S CALL CHERIE NEED UP TO 6 USC TICKETS. 
WANTED 

WILLING TO PAY BIG$$! PLEASE X4969 MONEY IS NO PROBLEM. CALL PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 
HELP! CALL X1338 ASK FOR NEED MICH. STATE TIX!! JIM AT X1236.
3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 

ATTENTION: EXCELLENT JENNIFER OR EVELYN Stud. orGA NEED 5 MICH ST. TIX 
$$$FOR YOUR BOOKS 

INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY CALL Mike #2742 CALL DAVE 283-1417 
WE BUY AND SELL USED 


WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 I NEED 6 PITT TICKETS CALL Need up to 4 Mich State. GoodTEXTBOOKS !!1!!!!!!1!!!!!!! 
DEPT. P5868. 277-9261 OR X2760. NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN I NEED 3 MICH. ST. GA'S $$$offered. Kevin 1663. WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$ STATE GAME. WILL EXCHANGE CALL BILL X4274My husband & I are longing to 
SHENANIGANS is looking for 2 GA'S FOR USC, 2 GA'S FOR adopt a child. We have gone 
spirited bass, piano, sax, and Need two SMU tix please call 264-NAVY OR PAY CASH. CALL TIM, IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 through a home study and have horn players. Interested? call 49301!!!!!!!!! FLANNER HALL, EXT. 1143. MICH ST GA'S CALL CHERIEbeen approved by a licensed 
Walter@ 271-0758. HELP! I NEED 2 MICH ST TIX. 4969.
agency. If you should know of 

NEED 2 GA AND 1 STU TICKET PLEASE CALL KRIS X2674 anyone who is considering 
FOR MICH ST. CALL CHRIS HELP ME $$$ NEED 2 PITT OR 2 SMU releasing a child for adoption, V-Tapes all 1988-89 N.D. football AT X1067. I NEED MICH ST. & USC TIX DESPARATE FOR 2 MSU GA'S TIX "PAY BIG$$$ please call Marie or Rick collect 
games. Please call Paul Roy 232-2 GA'S & 4STUDS. AND USC STUD. WILL TRADE A CALL CHERYL X2629 (219) 259-0160 
7602 NEED SEVERAL PITT GA'S CALL NICOLE X2618 PITT PLEASEI! #2619 JOHN2207Word processing experience plus 
WANTED: Male or female student I REALLY NEED 2 MICHIGAN BA in English 271-0682. 
photographer, experienced in all WE NEED MICHIGAN STATE I NEED 8 MSU GA'S. CALL BRIAN 
phases of photography including TICKETS: 2 GA AND 2 STUDENT. 288-8527 OR KIM 284-4169. STATE GA'S. PLEASE CALL THE NORTHERN IRELAND 
darkroom, to work 12 hours/week HAVE TWO PITT GA TICKETS CALL RICHARD OR ANDREA BETH-X4852AWARENESS GROUP WILL 
in ultra-modern University ANDWOULD LIKE TO TRADE AT 271-0519. LET'S TRADE! 
HOLD ITS FIRST MEETING OF 

photographic facility. Call Bruce FOR TWO USC G.A.'S. HAVE: HOTEL ROOMS FOR I REALLY NEED 4 MSU TICKETS. 
THE YEAR ON THURSDAY 

Harlan or Jaime Cripe 239-7350. PLEASE CALL X4023 NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA OR MICHIGAN STATE WEEKEND. CALL BEN AT 1126.
SEPTEMBER 21ST AT 7:30pm IN STUDENT BADLY . WILLING TO THE MONTGOMERY THEATRE, X3500 & LEAVE YOUR OFFER. 

NEEDED TWO MICHIGAN STATE PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL ERICH AT NEED 2 TIX TO ND-MICH ST.
LaFORTUNE CENTRE. FOR 

Desperately seeking 4 MSU and 4 TIX -STUD OR GA. HELP TWO X1622. $$CALL #1899MORE INFO. Pis. call 289-2843. 
PittGA's ALUMNI. CALL #4041 Need 1 Mich. State stud. or GA
Call Jenny at 284-4213 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ TRADE 2 MICHIGAN STATE Helpl I Need Tickets! I need 12 Todd #277-9469
TICKETS FOR 2 USC TICKETS SMU GA's, and a student ticket TYPING 
MOM NEEDS RESPONSIBLE CALL X2766 to any home game for my sister atJACKIE BOGGS 
STUDENT TO HELP W/ 9 YR OLD MY UNCLE NEEDS 4 GA'S TO West Virginia University who 684-8793 Need many MIAMI tix.
BOY. MUST HAVE OWN USC. CHRIS X3526 WILL TRADE 2 MICH.ST.!ND wants to see a real football game. $ $ $ $

FOOTBALL TIX AND/OR 1 HOTEL Call Gina at X2690.
Student Comedy, Bands and 


Barry 289-8417.
WANTED: USC vs. 

NEED 4 STU. & 4 GA TIX FOR ROOM FOR NO/USC WEEKEND 
coffehouse call 277-3653 Alumni 

MIC. ST. X232-9657 FOR 2 NO/USC FOOTBALL TIX. I ABSOLUTELY MUST HAVE 2 
.NO TICKETS 
Sr. Club wants you .... 
Need 2 GA's to either NAVY or

CAL (407) 727-6354 SMU GA'S!! (GRANDPARENTS 
24hr. answering service 
SMU. Please call Dave-#3313. 

COMING!) PLEASE CALL STEVE 
(213) 487-4161 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Travel Tour Operator needs x2400.
TYPING AVAILABLE. 
I NEED USC GA'S!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Home i213)422-2812 

I NEED GAs FOR STATE tickets for all N.D. games-home
287-4082. 
Am willing to trade Mich St. Pitt,

IT'LL HELP ME GET A MATE. and away, especially MSU, USC 
Navy, SMU, and Purdue or pay big 

TRANSPO. FOR MORE INFO SO CALL 2600 AND LEAVE A and Miami. Premium price paid. 
CALL BETH@ 234-7444. MESSAGE. Immediate case available. Will Need 2 GA's for MICH ST & up todough!! call (219) 283-3571
LOST/FOUND 

trade for all major sporting events 4 PITT. Will Pay. Call Beth 3706 
NEED one Mich. St. Student Ticket. 

including Final 4, Indy 500 and Please call Megan, 2518
We need a couch/sofa ASAP. If bowl game, etc. Will also buy PITT or USC GAs needed 
Lost: pr. black Vuarnets. Left at NEED 4 OR 5 GA's FOR USC!!! 
you'd like to sell yours, please call CALL MIKE 232-5571 season tickets. Please call Dave at desparately. Please call LaFortune's Auto-bank teller on 
x3442. I need 4 GA's for NAVY and 2 Student Tix for PITT.$$$$$$$ call 
9/11, at 11 :05 AM . Call Tim X4043 1-600-628-8955 today. Mike at #2288. 
Will TRADE: PITT, NAVY, or SMU Tom@ 287-8648
FOUND: PR. OF HARD I need 10 Mich. St. Tix!! I have 2 WANTED: 4 NO/USC tickets. Pat NEED SEVERAL PITI TIX 
CONTACTS outside of LYONS STU TIC for MSU TIC Pitt Tix to sell Pat x1857 Burns (317)848-1500 or (317) PLEASE!! #2819 HALL. Please see Sister Jeannine 
or will pay $$CASH$$ 758-4056 (nights). of Lyons if they are yours. NEED TICKETS FOR ALL N.D. 
Call Kelly @4853. NEED 2 MSU GA'S AND 4 Help! Help! Help!
GAMES. 272-9772 AFTER-P.M. HELP FULFILL MY STUDENT TIX BADLY. WILL PAY I need to find two Mich St GA's or
PART-TIME ASSISTANT COACH BIG$$$. CALL MITCH AT 2061. student tix and am wiling to pay 
FOUND: MIKE FROM MAINE, I GRANDPARENT'S LIFELONG 
NEEDEDFORLOCALAGE mucho $$ Call Mike at x2002
FOUND YOUR WALLET IN Ct/01 TICKETS WANTED: 4 SO. CAL. DREAM. SELL ME 2 MICHIGAN 
LOT ON 9/11. TO CLAIM CALL GROUP SWIM TEAM. 2-3 NIGHTS (318) 942-9771, (W); (318) 942-STATE GAS. CALL PETE 288-I want to buy your PURDUE tickets 1069. 7164, (H). CALL COLLECT. 
PER WEEK. PREVIOUS 2348 AFTER 6 PM . call Will 4048 
COACHING/SWIM LESSON 
NEED 2 SMU GA's Call Joe: 2647

FOUND: TAN PUPPY WITH EXPERIENCE HELPFUL. CALL Pitt tix desperately needed!! $$$$USC TICKETS NEEDED$$$ I NEED ONE USC STUDENT 
LEATHER COLLAR NEAR 233-1366 OR 232-0589. call KEVIN 1636 GA'S OR STUDENT TICKET-PLEASE CALL 
TURTLE CREEK. CALL 272-8124 IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE BILL AT 3340 
I need MICHIGAN ST. GA's. If you

Yo I Even if your a member of the CALL CAROL AT 283-4220. 
"BMX Accosters," I will buy plenty 

OR 272-7759. HELP! I NEED STUDENT&GA TIX can help me out, please call FOR USC.$$$CALL MIKE AFTER Nelson at x3278.
of your MSU student tix. Call Kelley Help Two Brothers coming in for 
WITIGER ON FACE & STATE at 1786 to increase your cash Help, the whole family is coming Mich St Need two tckts Stud or GA Need STU T x for Mich St 
LOST -GOLD HS CLASS RING 8PM AT 289-9811. 
CHAMPIONSHIP RING, BOTH supply so you can rent a real date! DESPERATELY NEED MICH. for USC, so we need lots of tickets. Willing to pay call Keven #2300 
Will buy or trade Pitt

FROM ROCK SPRINGS HIGH STATE GA TIX. CALL LAURA 284-Willing to pay big bucks. Call John Call Maureen 2674
5204. or Erich at x1622. OFFERED. X1861 
SCHOOL. LARGE REWARD Need 2 GAs to USC. Have 2 Mich. St. GAs to trade. Evenings 239­Now hiring part time waitress for 

YOU NEED MSU STUD TIC. 
ANTED: USC vs. 
I NEED GAS$$$$. CALL WATTS lunch and dinner hours. Apply 79982-5pm at Oriental Express 
NO TICKETS
LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH RING 

I need GA tickets to SMU. Family OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND 
6329 University Commons is coming out from Boston. Please hr. answering service NEED 2 USC GA'S BELIEVE IT OR NOT... desparately 

STONE !Just -s! of Univ Pari< Mall on State 

HELP!!!!!!!! (213) 467· 4161 
Please Call Vin x-2015 seeking 3 SMU tickets. It's my
Road 23, next to Kroger. 272-6702
REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE 

family's last chance to catch an ND Call John at 277-6530 Home 213 422-2812 CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF game before I graduate. Come on,FOUND. 
-they lost to Rice! I'll even pay you ••••• I NEED 2 USC GA'S"""FOR i desparately need michigan st. for them. $$$$$Julie x4419 Need 1 tix for Michigan State BIG$$ CALLS. MARK 277-6087 or USC GA's ; call bill x3363 
LOST: JEAN JACKET WITH 
FOR SALE 

Student or GACORDUROY COLLAR. JACKET 
???? MSU GA ???? $Cash$ or trade( USC or PITT) need 2 NAVY ga's. Will trade for HAS A TEAR BEHIND THE NECK 
COLOR TV RENTALS Call Mike 2031 stud tix (any game) or buy. x3202. 
AND HAS A 1988 US OLYMPIC 

13-INCH, $50/SEM, $80/YR; Need 4 Ga'sl!!!! Call Lloyd HELP A SAD LITTLE GIRL!!!
PIN ON THE LEFT POCKET. 

19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; at x1684 NEED GA's: 2 for Pitt I need a MICH. ST. ticket for my 12 have stud tix (2, sec 30) for all REWARD OFFERED FOR 
25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR and3forUSC year old sister , otherwise she can't home games x3202 RETURN. CALL MARK . X3467 CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE PARENTS ARE COMING! NEED 2 call Sue x2485 come with Mom & Dad. Call Pat at DELIVERY GA'S FOR PITT! CALL TIM 4043 x1159. I NEED AS MANY TICKETS TO 
LOST II GOLD CHAIN WITH 

USC AS YOU CAN GIVE ME ICOLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­CROSS, sometime Thurs 9/14 
5959 My life will end if I can't get Mich. St. HAVE 1MICH ST GA WILL STUDENTS OR GA'S. I WILL MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE 
tix. will pay top price x1791 Desperate! Will give my first born TRADE FOR 1 USC GA CALL PAY GOOD $$$.CALL BOB AT PLEASE call Christine at 2905 
Is It True ....... Jeeps for $44 through or any$ for 2 USC GAs Chris B 1655 OR 4224 x2313. 
if found. Reward. 

the Government? Call for facts! 1-NEED 4 MSU GA'S-CALL MIKE #1484 
312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. AND TOM at 1694. 
I NEED 3 GAS (PREFERABLY 
LOST: Minolta camara in a tan TOGETHER) FOR ANY HOME Have 1 Mich. St. and 1 Pitt stud case. VERY VALUABLE! LARGE 

'69 ND GRAD SELLING '62 OLDS NEED 2 GA's FOR NEED 2 MICH ST GAS--WILLING ticket. BEST OFFER. DENNIS OR GAME. CALL KAREN @ 284­REWARD! Call283-1863 WAGON. GOOD CONDITION, PITT or NAVY TO PAY. CALL MATT X2371. 4173. 
RUNS WELL. NO PROBLEMS 

Please Call Vin x-2015 AMY AT2654. 
FOUND: 4 keys on ring, in front of 

I need 2 MSU GAs & 1 stud. 
STARTING OR MAINTAINING.
Fisher Hall Fri 16SEP. 

$1200 (NEG.) GREAT FOR NEED 2 USC GA'S WILL PAY BIG$$$ Call Shannon call Patrick #2383, describe and 
SCHOOL, BETTER FOR IN DIRE NEED OF 4 MICHIGAN HELP! Need 4 Pitt GAs for my CALL CAROLYN X4510 at 284-5244. 
claim. 

GETTING TO & FROM. CALL STATE STUDENT TICKETS! II family Call Chad x1132 
CHRIS AT (312) 935-6366 AFTER PLEASE CALL JOE @ 1849 ROADTRIP BOOKLETS STILL 
I NEED 2 PITT GA'S (FOR MY 7 PM. Need 1 STU for Mich Stand 4 SMU AVAILABLE in the Senior Class 
PARENTS)!!! CALL CARYN 4830. HELP!!!!! GAS Kim3881 Office from 3-5 daily only $2 
LOST: IF ANY ONE PICKED UP 
MY JEAN JACKET AT SENIOR 

DON'T MISS OUT ! I ! ! NEED 4 PITT GA'S BAR WEDNESDAY NIGHT, 
'73 Kawasaki 250 Enduro; runs I NEED ONE USC GA FOR DAD Need up to 4 Mich St & 8 Pitt TIX 
CALL DAVE 283-1417 great. Askng $300; KEN 233-9106 Money no problem!! Mike X1236 WANTED: 2 Mich St GA's PLEASE CALL JOHN OWENS 
#3087. IT HAS MY LAUNDRY TAG I'LL PAY BIG BUCS!!!! 

You name the price ON IT. THANKS. 

Call Kevin at 3279 $$$$$$$$$$$$ Sale I MSU, SMU, Pitt stu. tix. 271-CALL CHRIS AT X4050 I Need Tix For Any Home Game, 
2 GA'S AND 1 STUD. 9714 Hurry! GA or Student. Call Matt 283-3372 
NEEDED FOR MICH ST.
LOST: Pair of Prescription CALL ANYTIME!!!!! 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

GAME. CALL MATT X4280 I need Mich. state tix--GAs DESPERATELY NEEDED­GLASSES in a brown, felt case. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$ 19" Color TV, Microwave, size 10 and student tix for my wealthy MICHIGAN STATE TIX!II! Fur Coat, Refrigerator, $60 each. INEED 1 USC TICKET AND MY girlfriend and her family. NEED 3 STUDENT TIX AND 4 NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN Please call Stacy x4120 if found. 
FOUND: BLACK CAT by the law 

Pub signs. 233-4935 before 1Opm. ROOMMATE NEEDS A DATE. Please call John at 3586 GA'S. STATE -JAMES X1860school. Call 283-2637 to claim. 
CALL SHANA 2720! and leave a message. BIG MONEY BIG MONEYI!!! CALL JONPAUL AT X1603 
TICKETS..........................TICKETS NEED 2 SMU TIX-GA OR STU. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I AM SELLING TICKETS TO ALL 
~FOR_RE_NT____..l ( TICKETS I 

Need one stu. ticket for USC. NAME YOUR PRICE!!! 
HOME GAMES. CALL JOHN MAC. 
Call Mike at 13205. CALL MATT #3489 
The Units need USC Tix! Call Amy AT 271-8309. at 2640. BJG $$$1 HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT 
THE "IRISH B&B" FOR 

MICHIGAN STATE GA TIC Need 3 GA's & 1 stud 4 USC FOOTBALL WEEKEND5-RING 
• • • • NEED 4 USC TIX • • • • NEED 4 NAVY GAs X3500-WATTS NEEDED FOR DAD. WILL PAY game. Will pay finder's fee. Call
272-7738 

BIG $$$. CALL 1224. Dave 277-3687 
-~all-~6_3:~_?3_5__ ·_ -~~~~e a message 

.­
---~-~--------~-....-----­
Tuesday, September 19, 1989 The Observer page 11 
To the Man with the Strength of 10 
Do you have a pilot's certificate or
NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH ST. HAVE 

NEED: 2 NO/USC GA'S. Me· and the Man with the 28 lb. 
wish to become a student or

PERSONALS
PITI & BIG $$ CALL JIM X1653 

MEGAN 4825. .re package --We like you more 
private pilot?lntersested in starting
class 
t1 .an "perfect" chocolate 
a flying club? Call Mike x2215 

PLEASE! FAMILY COMING FROM NEED 4 USC GA'S. CALL 271-HiAg chip cookies! 
continued from page 0 
CA. NEED MICH. ST. OR USC TIX. 9830. 
ROUND TRIP TICKET S. BEND 

FOR SALE MICH STATE GA'S -BEST OFFER CALL 277-1878 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR 
SMU. WILL PAY GOOD$$$$$! 
CALL STEVE AT X4289 
HELP! I NEED TICKETS 
12SMU 
2USC 
AND A TICKET TO ANY HOME 
GAME FOR MY SISTER AT WEST 
VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY WHO 
WANTS TO SEE A REAL 
FOOTBALL GAME. CALL GINA 
AT 2690 
I NEED GA'S FOR ALL HOME 
GAMES AND MIAMI. WILL PAY 
BIG. X2335 
I ABSOLUTELY MUST HAVE 2 GA'S FOR SMU!! GRANDPARENTS; PLEASE CALL STEVE X2400 
~E~-p:-~-~-E·w~-oLE-FAM-I~v-1_1 
COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED LOTS OF TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN OR ERIK AT 1622 
HELP' NEED 2 MICH ST. TIX! 
$X1308 
IF YOU HAVE MICH. ST. TIX TO 
SELL CALL 1308 
NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME WILL PAY$$$$ CALL BILL 271-8483 HAVE $$ OR TIX TO TRADE. PLS. CALL CRAIG EGAN 3383. THANX. 
I NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S. BIG MONEY OR TRADE FOR PITI TICKETS. CALL LANCE 1382. 
HELP! NEED 2 MSU GA'S AND 3 
USC GA'S! LARGE EXPENSE 
ACCOUNT. CALL K. 2597. 
HEY NOW! HAVES: 3 Michigan State GA's NEEDS: USC GA's or student tix call Dan at 233-8574 to trade 
MICHIGAN ST. TICKETS I need student ticket(s) for Saturday's game. Please help! Call Monica 283-4823 
I'VE GOT FIFTY REASONS WHY 
YOU SHOULD SELL ME YOUR 
MICH ST GA OR STUD TIX. 
call Mark 427 4 
$$$NEED 2 PITI OR SMU GAs Cheryl x2629 
USC TICKETS RICH ALUM NEEDS STUDENT AND GA TICKETS TO USC GAME WILL PAY BIG$$$ NANCY 277-7593 
HELP Need 6 GA's and 2 students, cousins think I have pull Don't let them change their mind ... call Bill 277-3653 thanks FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TO DENVER FOR FALL BREAK DESPERATELY SEEKING 5 USC ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE 

AGENTS 
FOR SALE AMY X3717 GA'S. PLEASE CALL CARl 2855. OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS 

College preferred no experienceCOMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A 
necessary. For application NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY TOP CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: information call (219) 757-5757 
SECS Roadtrip Notables: $$$. CALL JACK 2366. Ext.C-3138am-8pm, 7days.
POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY Col-"1 feel SO WET!" 
RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
"AIRBORNE!"
H.......E.....L.....P 
"The Bitch Mobile"NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER) Attention NO Students! 

"JD, What's your secret?" 

FOR ANY GAME. WILL PAY BIG $4.50 Haircuts 
Barbara R. 
Ter-"GROSS! There's somethingMOOLAH ($$). PLEASE CALL VITO'S BARBERSHOP Do you know I love you? 
wet between my legs!" 

JEFF 277-3998. M-F 8-5 
Marl< 
1 & 1 WE HAD SOME FUN ON Sat. 8-4 THE ROADTRIP .

NEED 1 MICH. ST. STUDENT, 1 Closed Wed. CONGRATS TO THE IRISH USC TIC, HAVE 1 SMU STUD.$$ 
OFF'ENSIVE LINE GREAT JOB!!! CHRIS 1861. DO YOU HAVE A PILOT'S PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPCERTIFICATE OR WISH TO HAPPY BIRTHDAY TINNER NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITI. BECOME A STUDENT OR TRANSFERS-OLD AND NEW NOW THAT YOU'RE OLD YOU CALL DAVE 1597. PRIVATE PILOT? CALL MIKE PICNIC-HOLY CROSS FIELD REALLY HAVE TO START CON­2215. 
THURS 9/21 6PM-COME SHARE TROLLING YOUR ACTIONS!!!!!!!!
HELP! I NEED 2 TIX TO THE YOUR TRANSFER 'HELL HAVE A GREAT DAY-LOTS OFMICH. STATE GAME. PLS. CALL DILLON PEP RALLY!! . 
STORIES! 
LOVE LAMB &CO. 

MAURA X288-0885. DILLON PEP RALLY!! 
PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPTHURSDAY 7:30 
HELP! I need your Michigan St. BE THERE!! TOMMY-I LOVE YOU! Y.L.P 
tickets. Call Tina at x4840DO YOU REALLY THINK WE STAND A CHANCE AGAINST Thank you St. Jude, pray for me-JMSU ? ME NEITHER, BUT MY TOP 10 QUOTES FROM SISTER AND HER BOYFRIEND MICHIGAN: 
BEG TO DIFFER. HELP ME OUT TRANSVESTITE DANCERS 10) I'm hot please unlock the 
To all my well-wishers and fervent WITH 2 GA OR STU. TIX. CALL come see the BOOM BOOM windows. 9) Oh geez, oh geez, oh
supporters:JOHN AT X 1684. 
GIRLS at the DILLON PEP RALLY geez. 8.) I want to run naked thru 
Thanks so much for your thoughts, prayers and cards. You really the cornfields. 7) Let's go WANTED: TWO MICHIGAN 
cowtipping. 6) Jody, there are STATE TICKETS FOR TWO NO .......*************** *** ******** *** * people in the car. 5) I don't want to made my week. I hope I can return 
the favor sometime. It's great to beGRADS. LETS MAKE A DEAL! 
lick the pickle. 4) I can't get it in the CALL AMY AT 2640. 
back and it's great to have friends 
come see; TONY RICE hole. 3) The catholic girls start
like you! 
DEAN BROWN much too late. 2) We can't stop & 
Love, Regis Tickets For Sale; DON GRIMM reverse on the highway. 1) She's 1 stud. USC and 1 stud. Pitt at the DILLON PEP RALLY!! just mad because her pom-poms Best Offer Call Now! 
are wet.

CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable Katie x1281 Can we buy your 
atmosphere, daily & weekly Need 4 GA's for SMU: parents specials, pool table, English darts, 
couch/sofa/chair? SENIOR FORMAL Please call x3442. 
are coming. Please help. Call and great company. 234-3541 If interested in planning Senior Brittany 3821 ! 
Formal1990, fill out an interest 
sheet in the Office of Student Activities by Weds. 9/20. 

''I don't want 
alotof hype. 
"THANKSGIVING BREAK ON MIAMI BEACH"
Ijustwant 
N.D. VS MIAMI 

something I 
(219) 237-5334 ATLAS TOURS 

can count on..,., 

'78 Jrlump Sp!ltf!re 49,000 miles 3 tops, Pioneer Stereo Dependable and economical $4500-Price negotiable 
232-7665 
Earn $200.300 weekly.

Some long distance 
Travel tour operator needs 

companies promise you 
four students immediately.

the moon, but what you 
1-800-828-8955 

really want is dependable, 
high-quality service. That's 
just what you'll get when 
you choose AT&T Long 
Distance Service, at a cost 
that's a lot less than you 
think You can expect low 
long distance rates, 24-hour 
operator assistance, clear 
connections and immediate 
credit for wrong numbers. 
And the assurance that 
virtually all of your calls will 
go through the first time. 
That's the genius of the 
AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network 
When it's time to choose, forget the gimmicks and make the intelligent choice-AT&T 
If you'd like to know more about our products or services, like International Calling and the AT&T Card, call us at 1800 222-0300. 

ATs.T ­
The right choice. 

--------~-~----------­

Tuesday, September 19, 1989
page 12 The Observer 
Irish football still No. 1 in nation 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press college football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses. records through Sept. 16, total points based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17­16-15-14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2­
1 and last week's ranking:  
Record  Pts Pvs  
1. Notre Dame (57) 2-0-0  1,497 1  
2. Miami, Fla. (3)  2-0-0  1,424 3  
3. Nebraska  2-0-0  1,308 4  
4. Auburn  2-0-0  1,290 5  
5. Michigan  0-1-0  1,224 2  
6. Colorado  3-0-0  1,218 8  
7. Clemson  3-0-0  1 '166 7  
8. Arkansas  1-0-0  1 .o5g 9  
9. West Virginia  3-0-0  926 12  
10. Syracuse  2-0-0  848 11  
11. Washington  2-0-0  790 15  
12.SouthernCal  1-1-0  746 13  
13. Pittsburgh  2-0-0  704 14  
14. Tennessee  3-0-0  695 17  
15. Alabama  1-0-0  640 16  
16. Oklahoma  2-1-0  531 6  
17. Houston  1-0-0  471 18  
18. N. Carolina St.  3-0-0  449 19  
19. Washington St.  3-0-0  339 23  
20. Illinois  1-1 -0  314 10  
21. TexasA&M  2-1-0  259 22  
22. Oregon  2-0-0  245  
23. Arizona  2-1-0  236  
24. UCLA  1-1-0  188 20  
25. Ohio St.  1-0-0  182  

Other receiving votes: Georgia 122, Michigan St. 115, Mississippi St. 108, Florida St. 103, Air Force 78, Mississippi 44, Louisville 40, Penn St. 38, Kentucky 30, Virginia 24, Fresno St. 18, LSU 12, Florida 10, S. Mississippi 4, Texas Tech 4. Minnesota 1. 
+ 
Ainerican 
Red Cross 

A COMPUTER? 
Broncos grab early lead, class COME SEE THE IBM PERSONAL SYSTEM 2 FAMILY OF 
COMPUTERS. THERE WILL BE A
fight off Bi11's to win 28-14 continued from page 11 DEMONSTRATION ON 
Associated Press 

OHCIIAHD PAHK, N.Y. Denver's big-play defense, sparked by interceptions from Wymon Henderson and Tyrone Braxton, helped the Broncos build a 21-0 lead and they held on for a 28-14 victory over the Buffalo Bills on Monday night. 
Denver. which had lost 10 of its last 11 Monday night road games and its last eight games on artificial turf. turned all those negatives around with some positive defense. Just as in tlwir opening victory over Kansas City, the Broncos forced turnovers and converted them into points. 
The defense, which ranked 22nd in the NFL last year, con­tributed two points on a first­quarter safety and set up 13 more points. Those points came on Vance Johnson's 9-yard re­ception from John Elway and 11eld goals of 46 and 24 yards by David Treadwell. 
The rookie also hit from 33 and 22 yards. 
That same defense began to wilt, though, as Buffalo went to a hurry-up offense -the same ploy Bills coach Marv Levy had criticized as unethical when Cincinnati used it last year. Jim Kelly led the Bills on drives of 77 and 66 yards against a sud­denly confused Denver defense. 
But the Broncos again came up with crucial plays after Elway was intercepted early in 
CAMPLTS BIBLE STUDY* (CBS) 
-
" ... there are all sorrs ofservice to be done, 
bw always ro the same Lord; working in a/. 
sorts ofdifferent woys in different people 
(Z\MPUS I Cor. 12:4,5 
MINISTRY 
l'lHST t'viEETJNG TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 7:00 ]7.111. 
\II strrrlcnls invited to ntlt•nrl 
Ouc Hour Sessions LCtllncniclll IJi[J/t' Study 
Bri11g yorrr ow11 /.Ji/Jlc 
Every Tuesrfny -7:00 p.m. Office of Cn111p11s Ministry Co11fereuce Roo111-Bndi11 1-Inll 
Directed uy: Rev. AI D'Alollzo, CSC For nrf rf iti011 n l infor111 nti011 cnll: 239-5955 
239-5242 

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 20, IN  
the fourth quarter_ Mark Kelso  TOP MICHIGAN QUOTES  MONTGOMERY THEATRE FROM  
picked off Elway's overthrown pass at the Buffalo 31 and Kelly got the Bills to the Denver  1) "THUMP!" OH WHAT'S THAT I SMELL? OH NO, SHOWERS WITH TOMATO JUICE!  7:00 to 9:00pm. ALL ARE INVITED TOATIEND. ADOPTION: Loving, professional  
41.  2)1 CAN SMELL IT! I CAN SMELL  couple in Midwest wishes to adopt  
Simon Fletcher then sacked Kelly, Braxton -who scored on an interception return last  IT! 3)1 FEEL BAD, I DON'T LIKE ALMONDS. BUT I DIDN'T WANT TO GIVE IT BACK!-I DON'T  newborn. We offer stable and happy home, financial security, welcoming extended family. PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711  
week  - broke  up  a  pass  to  LIKE THEM EITHER, BUT THAT  after 6:30 pm weekdays, anytime  
Ronnie Harmon in the end zone with a diving swipe, and rookie Warren Powers sacked the  DOESNT STOP ME! 4)WOW, QUEENSIZE BUNKBEDS...AND MY HOW THEY SQUEAK!  weekends. Attorney involved. HELP! NEED 1 MSU STUD. OR GA. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR  
quarterback.  5) STEPH, YOU CHARMER,  TRADE PITI & BIG BUCKS! CALL  
Elway hit Johnson for 25 yards on third-and-12 and he scrambled for 31 yards to the  GETIING US INTO DOOLEY'S 6)BRIGID-MY MOM ONCE SAID "IF YOU'RE EVER GOING TO RUN AWAY. YOU'LL LEAVE THE  LIZ X2798 JUDOGI FOR SALE  
Buffalo  5 when  Denver  took  WAY YOU CAME-NAKED AND  Size 3. Call Laura, x3887.  
over. Rookie Bobby Humphrey scored from the 5 to clinch it and silence the crowd of 78,176 at the first prime time game here since 1984.  WITH NO MONEY! ?)HOT-TUB BUZZI 8)WE WERE WAY IN CONTROL! 9)1 GUESS THAT MEANS NO DANCING ON THE TABLETOPS 10)ND IS#1!  ""MARCH ON WASHINGTON"" AGAINST HOMELESSNESS OCT. 6-8 The challenge is GETTING THERE!  
The Broncos last won on arti­ MEETING: Sept. 21, 7:00 PM at  
ficial turf at Philadelphia in the  esc to discuss transportation  
third week of the 1986 season.  

They had beaten only 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday
Pittsburgh, three years ago, in all their Monday night road 
thrQugh Observer advertising. 
games. 
Call 239·5303 fQr details.

Buffalo, which won all its home games in taking the AFC East crown in 1988, lost here for the first time since Dec. 20, 1987 against New England. BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
(conOco) 
MARKETING, NORTH AMERICA 
December, May, and August graduates of the COLLEGE OF BUSINESS are invited to attend a presentation/reception on career opportunities with Marketing, North America 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1989 
6:00-S:OOp.m. 
Upper Lounge, University Club Refreshments Served 
We also plan to participate in "Meet the Firms Night" on Sept 19 from 6:00-10:00 in the monogram room and concourse of the JACC, so please plan to come by and visit with our representative at CONOCO's booth! 
Saturday. Oct 14 
B·OOpm 
Morrrs C1v1c 
Alldi!OCIIIOl a11 seats rP.servc:c1 
;, 1 b SCJ 
Tickets on sale 
NOW 
C1v1c Box

-
Office. N1ghtwmds Record Connection . & usual outlets CHARGE 284-9190 


~T Fl~NA
J..., 


TONIGHT AT 7:00pm 2nd Annual Finance Club "CAREER NIGHT" 
Over Twenty firms which actively recruit ND Business Majors will be present to talk about career opportu~ities available. 
Finance Majors and others are encouraged to attend! 
ADWORKS 
Tuesday, September 19, 1989 The Observer page 13 
NO women's golf places in top 1 0 of ISU Invitational 
"The scores were very high 

BY JOHANNA KELLY 
overall," remarked Hanlon.

Sports Writer 
In the individual 

The Irish proved as good competition, the Irish fared 
as their word this past well with Roberta Bryer
weekend as they placed 1Oth placing 34th with a score of 
out of 20 teams at the 
169, Allison Wojnas takingIllinois State Women's Golf 39th with170, Kathy Phares Invitational this weekend. 

placing 47th with172,

"We finished about where I Pandora Fecko taking 54th thought we would," said with174, and Heidi Hansan Irish coach Tom Hanlon. 
earning 69th with 181. 

After the first round on Individual honors went to 
Saturday, Indiana University 
Debbie Lee of Indiana 

led with a score of 315, the University, who scored 153,hosting team, Illinois State, as she defeated teammate 
held second place at 328, Shannon Hardesty in a tie­and the Irish earned the breaker. 
ninth slot at 343. 
In final action on Sunday, The Irish's next match will 
Indiana took first place with take place in Indianapolis 
a team total of 620 and and the Irish are confident 
Northern Illinois University that they will do well. 
placed second with 646. The ''I'm pretty much pleased 
Irish finished with a score of that we're getting more 
684 and took 1Oth place. competitive," Hanlon said. 
SMC Shaheen Bookstore 
Giant Booksale Prices $1.00 & up! 

!1--------------,
1 Take an additional So/o off 1
1 
any backpack in stock 1

1
I_______________expires Sept. 30 ..1 
Cubs win 10-6 over Mets; A's stay atop AL West, beat Indians 4-2 
Burke, a freshman from best time in the country in the Portland, Connecticut. Burke outdoor mile last year.
victory 
was fourth for the Irish and Junior Pat Kearns also
continued from page 16 
seventh overall, and his ran well and rounded out the 
One of Piane's concerns performance in his first college scoring for the Irish by placing had been who would fill in the meet was impressive. Burke ninth in the race. behind the top three runners, had been an All-American in ''I'm not surprised at the and he got an answer from J.T. high school and recorded the top five but to be a better team 
..---------------~...........-~~--.. we're going to have to position 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Luis Salazar had 
an advantage the rest of his 
teammates lacked. He had 
batted against Frank Viola 
before in the American League. 
Salazar hit an offspeed pitch for a two-run homer to cap a four-run fifth inning Monday night that wiped out a three­run deficit and started the Chicago Cubs to a wild 10-6 victory over the New York Mets. 
The victory reduced Chicago's magic number to eight. Any combination of Chicago victories or St. Louis defeats totalling eight will give the Cubs the division crown. The second­-place Cardinals trail the Cubs by five games. Montreal is fourth, seven games back. 
Cardinals 3, Expos 2 
Jose DeLeon pitched a strong game and Milt Thompson hit a two-run double for St. Louis, which won for only the fourth time in 12 games. 
The fourth-place Expos have won only three of their last 11 games. 
DeLeon, 16-11, blanked Montreal until running into control trouble in the eighth. 
Athletics 4, Indians 2 
Dave Stewart must be wondering what it's going to take to win one more game. So is Dennis Eckersley. 
For the second straight time, Eckersley blew a chance in the ninth inning for Stewart's 20th victory of the season and 1OOth of his career. And for the second straight time, Eckersley wound up with the victory when Dave Henderson got the winning hit for the Oakland Athletics. 
Henderson hit a tiebreaking single in the 1Oth inning Monday night as the A's beat the Cleveland Indians 4-2. 
Red Sox 6, Blue Jays 3 
The Boston Red Sox, unable to defeat Toronto at home since 1987, beat the first-place Blue Jays as Nick Esasky homered during a five-run third inning. 
Toronto had its three-game winning streak stopped and its lead in the American League East cut to two games over Baltimore. The Red Sox won their fourth straight and pulled to 8 1/2 back. 
P O'M 11 
our fourth through seventh
JQ hfl • a ey runners better," Piane stated. 

The victory marked the Sales Representative third consecutive time that the New Memberships or Transfers Irish have defeated the Hoyas, 
a streak that Piane hopes toAuto & Property Insurance keep alive in the future. 
ILLINOIS. INDIANA 
CHICAGO 
AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB The Irish now begin
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD preparations and training to
CLUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA host the 11th annual National MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 Catholic Meet on Sept. 29. Notre Dame will try to defend
RES 219/288 0980
219/277-5790 ·: -their title in the race against Please ask for John O'Malley. the likes ofLoyola and 

,_:t'• 

• ........., ~. •. • • "· •• &, • • • • •. • ..._ ­
-

-------------------~ ----­
page 14 

Saint Mary's tennis finishes second in own invitational 
BY CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team plaeed second overall in this weekend's Saint Mary's Invitational. 
The Belles ended the tourna­ment with a total of 37 overall points, receiving four second­place, four third-place and one fifth-place finishes. Butler University placed first overall with 51 total points. Of the seven teams that competed, Saint Mary's was the only divi­sion three team. 
" I felt that we played very well in this tournament. The teams provided good competi­tion. We are a NAIA-3 and NCAA-3 team. The rest are NCAA-1 schools and all of their girls are on scholarship. Because we did so well, it indi­cates that we can do well against other schools that don't have as strong pro­grams," said Belles Coach Charlene Szajko. 
" I think it's great to play Division-1 schools in the tour­nament. It gives us great prac­tice," said junior co-captain Sarah Mayer. 
In the singles competition, senior co-captain Jennifer Block placed second in the number-one singles category, after losing a close third set , 6-1, 2-6, 5-7, to Butler University. 
Mayer placed second in the number-two singles competi­tion after losing 2-6, 6-7 (7-9 tie breaker). 

"Jennifer played very well, taking her opponent to the third set. Sarah played consis­tent and she took her opponent to a tie-breaker" said Szajko. 
Freshman Denise McDonald placed third in the number­three singles category, beating her Xavier University opponent by default. 
Sophomore Ellen Mayer de­feated her Butler opponent in straight sets, 6-2, 6-3. She took third in the number-four sin­gles category. 
Sophomore Marie Koscielski placed third in the number-five singles competition after de­feating her Valparaiso oppo­nent 8-3, in a pro-set. 
Freshman Natalie Kloepfer was defeated by her Akron op­ponent in straight sets, 2-6, 1­
6. She placed fifth in the num­ber-six competition. 
In doubles competition, Block and Mayer defeated Akron in a pro-set, 8-6. They placed third in the number-one doubles cat­egory. 
Koseielski and McDonald placed second in the number­two doubles category after los­ing in straight sets to Butler, 1­6, 3-6. 
Mayer and Kloepfer placed second in the number-three doubles category after losing to Akron in straight sets, 4-6, 1-6. 
" The girls did very well and they played up to their poten­tial. We are a very young team, but we have the talent and I think we can go far with this team," said Szajko. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Sailing Club will give lessons today through Wednesday at the boathouse for all interested members. Bring a cheek for dues. 
Cycling Club will meet at 4 p.m. Tuesday at the main circle. Call x3472 for more information. 
Non-Varsity Athletics needs officials for soccer and women's football. Applications are available at the NVA office. Call 239-6100 for more information. 
NOW! WE HAVE DELIVERY 
Call 277-7744 
Subway is delivering to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses during the following times: 
12 Noon-12 Midnight Sat. & Sun. 5 p.m.-12 Midnight Mon.-Fri. 

-
4!;:1IJ;It•I;\~ 
State Road 23 and Ironwood 


The Observer Tuesday, September 19, 1989 

BY COLLEEN KRENZER 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's soccer team extended it's winning record to 5-0, after defeating Tri-State University, 8-0, and Wheaton College, 1-0, in last week's action. 
The team headed to Tri-State University on September 13 for a match that belonged solely to the Belles. Saint Mary's offense continually challenged the Tri­State goalie, getting off 21 shots, eight of which produced goals. 
"We exhibited superiority the entire game," said senior Mollie Meehan, one of seven players to score in the Belles' victory. Sophomore Kelly Fraleigh had two, freshman April Ehret, junior Trish Troester, senior Kathy Revane and sophomore Janet Libbing each had one. and Greer Gilliland had a goal 
and a assist. 
Saturday's game proved to be more of a challenge as Wheaton College came into town with a perfect record and the two undefeated teams battled for the right to stay that way. In the end, it was Saint Mary's coming out on top as freshman Kristin Crowley blasted home the winning goal 
YOU'RE INVITED 
meet 

the sculptor--David Hayes '53 
hear 

him speak on the creative process -­from 12 tons of steel --Griffon 
Tuesday, September 19, 4:15 The Snite Museum auditorium 
check out two new exhibitions 
in the last three minutes of the game, with the assist from Trish Troester. 
"It was an evenly matched game," said Troester, "but I feel that we dominated and it showed right at the end of the game." 
The Belles look to continue their winning streak on Wednesday, September 20 against Ilopc College, at home. On Saturday, September 23, the team. will travel to the University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee in hopes of spoiling the UWM homeeoming game. 

David Hayes: Sculptures, Maquettes and Gouaches 
and 

Three Universities Collect: 20 th-Century Works on Paper 
Tuesday, September 19, 1989 The Observer page 15 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Moved, 63 Vehicle starring nautically Orson Welles: 
1 Walk in the 36 Auction ending 1938woods 37-Kringle 66 Broadway lass 5 Ululate 38 Condo 67 Soprano Mills 9 Insults residence 68 Algerian seaport 14 Roberts of Tulsa 39 Rustling sound 

69 "Mr.--Goes
15 "The-Love 42 Promontory to Town" Belongs. " 43 Diving duck 70 Small fishing 16 "Cheers" 45 Sault, to a boatbarmaid Michigander 71 A national 46 U.N. member 17 Weather symbol of forecast 47 They give a leg Scotland 
up

20 Official decree 51 Regret
21 Lapland "cattle" 52 Mario or I. M. DOWN22 Mrs Gump 53 D.D.E. 
1 Expression of 23 Soft, as a sound predecessor ennui26 G.l. 's oasis 56 Trading ship of 2 Baghdad native: 27Wordsof yore Var.
applause 61 Group in a loft 
3 Elia or Lainie 4 Cities in Minn. and Nev. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 Half a greeting 
call 6 Can. province 7 Stand up under 
use 40 Item provided in 56"-the8 Form a queue bars Craziest 9 Dope 

41 Sharpen Dream," 1942 10 Praise 
song 11 Poilu's weapon personified? 48 Deadened 57 Hawaiian goose 12 Ballerina's bend 29 Hades 49 Adapted 58 lsak Dinesen, for 
one 44 Penzance group 
50 "lch Liebe-"· Grieg 30 Narrow inlets 59 Crocus, e.g. 

31 Vipers 60 Famed fiddler 53 Nymph of 32 River of Flanders 
Muslim paradise 62 Snare 33 "Be qu1et!" 
54 Agave fiber 64 "-forthe G 34 Fairy-tale starter 
55 River in central String": Bach 35 Small bottle England 65 Typewriter lever 





COMICS 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON I'M NoT GO\N~ \b F\~~T 
iO'J'Rt. 1\.\E ON£ W\.10 lifiS TO 

'(OIJ, t-\0£.! IF~ W()lT OK, tnql\k'5 .'
L\IJE Wrrn iCIJRSElf .' I 

Gl'lE ME 1'1\i TR\JCK BAO::., 
lleh heh.
CA.t--~1 1'\~KE '10\l 00 W\.\~TS 
I 



BUZZ MC FLAITOP MICHAEL F. MULDOON 


Hon. Robert c. McFarlane 
Present Director of the Strategic Policy Discussion Group ­a bi-partisan group of international affairs experts and statesmen, providing policy recommendations for deterring nuclear war 
Lecturing tonight in Washington Hall on STUDENT UNION BOARD "The Changing Distribution of Global Power" 
8:00PM -30 years of experience in diplomatic and policy circles Tickets on Sale for $3 -National Security Council Advisor under President Reagan 1983-1985 at the LaFortune Box Office 



• 
,.. 

.­
Sports
page 16 Tuesday, September 19, 1989 
Irish men's, women's cross country off and running in '89 
NO men's cross country Women's cross country downs Georgetown 33-22 falls to Hoyas in opener 
BY MARY GARINO BY BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer Sports Writer 
Tlw Nutre Damn nwn's cross country team Some of' the Irish sports tnams had a rougher proved that they could still run with the top wenknnd than the football tnam. teams in the nation by dE~feating Georgetown The overmatched wonwn's cross country tPam 33-22 on Saturday in rainy weather in lost a tough match to (;norgl~town I 7 -4(>. Maryland, Georgetown grabbed night of tlH• lop [I'll plan•s, 
Notre Damn apparPntly did not miss including the top tlm•e spots. with Iloya Christy graduatPd All-Americans Dan Garrett and Hon Constantinn taking first ovnrall with a timP of Markezich as much as anticipated. Senior 17:55 f'or tho 5,()()() llll'll'r CoUrSE'. captain Mike O'Connor paeed the Irish with a "The nwet was pretty much what I expertPd, first-place finish and was followPd by Tom to be horwst." said Irish !wad coach Tim O'Hourke and Hyan Cahill who took second and Comwlly. "GnorgPtown is one of ttw top teams in third, respectively. the country. and we're just not at that IPvPI 
Georgetown's big guns were expncted to give right now. We were pretty llllH~h overmatdwd." Notro. Daml' some trouble, but thn Irish rose to Notre Damn had two finishnrs, l.uc.y Nusrala thP occasion to hold onto the victory. This and Terosn Lemanski, in thn top ten. Nusrala year's victory for the Irish was not as decisive took l'ourth with a timn of' 1 H:40, while as last snason. when Notre Damn embarrassed Lemanski plaeed tenth. finishing in 19:2:{. Other the lloyas at the Burke Golf Course, but !lead top 15 finishers l'or the Irish wnrn WPndy Coach Joe Piane was plnasPd with the team's Murray, 12th and Amy Blaising, 14th. effort. ";\II the girls ran prntty nHH'h what tlwy WPrP 
"I fPit that wP could win. but I didn't think capable." said Connelly. Lucy IN usraJa I ran that we could win that big," he said. "Our top really hard-she's a talented runner and a thre1~ ran well." really good compPtitor -sh1~ doPsn't back 
Piane added that he was surprised that the down from anybody. Amy Blaising also ran Wl'll lloyas did not put up a bPtter light, especially for her first race." Mike Donahue, one of their leading runners. Despite tlw painful loss, Conrwlly rPmained Donahue finished fourteenth and had no effect optimistie about tlw rest of the sEmson. on the scoring. John Trautman, as expected, "We'll definitely eontirnw to improve was the top finisher for Georgetown. throughout tlw season," said Connelly. "If you 
Through the 11rst half of the race, three don't knep improving then tlwn~'s no SPllSI' in Notre Damn runners ran in a group with four going out them." Georgetown rumwrs. At this point, the race was 
Tlw Irish will open thPir honw season with tlwup for grabs but the Irish had a strong second 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team, led by Mike O'Connor, 1\;ational Catholics, which will takn ptm~e SPpt.
half to take the top three spots. 

forefront. and Ryan Cahill, on his heels, tallied its third consecutive 24 and tlwn host the Notre Danw Invitational see VICTORY/ page 13 

Northfield twins verbally commit to N D basketball 
Special to The Observer 
Jop and Jon Hoss. identical twins from Northfield High 
School  made  a  verbal  
commitnwnt  today  to  play  
for  the  Notre  Dame  

baskntball team during the 1990-1 <J91 snason. 
The high school snniors, who led Northlleld to a 23-2 record last season before losing to Marion in the regional finals, may sign the NCAA Iotter of intent on Nov. R. 
Jon averaged IR.R points per game, while .Joe averagPd 14.9 and both are expnctPd to be the backbone of tlu~ squad this winter, 
.Jon, 6-foot-9 1/2 and 210 pounds. shot 5R perc1~nt from ttw 11eld and 5!J percent f'r<im the free throw line. while averaging R.1 rebounds. llis brotlwr. who stands a half-inch shorter than .Jon and wnighs a meager 205 pounds, shot 6:i perc1~nt from the field and 62 JH~rcEmt from thn charity stripe while averaging R.3 rPbounds pPr ganw. 
"The family is to be eomplimentPCI the way thPy have handiPd the n~cruiting." said Northfield roach Stnvn McClure. "The boys have bm~n recruited by quality schools. and made visits to Purdue. Vanderbilt and Northwf~stern. But other schools couldn't touch tho atmosphere at Notre Dame. 
"Sometimes as coaches we tend to be critical of these decisions, but academically I believe they made a smart decision. Athletically, you can only project and time will tell." 

victory over Georgetown last weekend by outracing the Hoyas 33-22. on Oct. 6 and MarquettE~ on Oct. 21. 
Irish soccer, Lyons shut out Marquette 1-0 
BY KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's soccer team climbed above the .500 mark with its third straight win Sunday. blanking the Marquette Warriors 1-0 in Milwaukee, Wis. 
Tom Connaghan's goal with just 2:50 left in regulation gave Irish goalkeeper Danny Lyons all of the offensive support he needed as he recorded his first shutout of the season and the 14th of his career. 
Lyons only needed to make 4 saves against the Warriors, who fell to 3-2-1 on the season. Consequently, it is not too sur­prising that he gives the defense much of the credit for keeping Marquette scoreless. 
"The defense played really tough," Lyons said. "It was probably our best defensive performance of the year. They had a couple shots but they were all wide, really. I didn't have to do a whole lot." 
Lyons, unspoiled by success, stayed late for practice yester­mark to gain a lead. Tom Senior goalies Jim Ambrosn We'v1~ had trouble thern in the day. "Danny always stays late," Connaghan, who just missed a and Brian Closs have combined past, so we don't expect this says Irish coach Dnnnis Grace, goal when he blasted a shot off for 18 shutouts in thnir careers one to be nasy at all." 
"lin's a real workaholic, and the crossbar in Notre Dame's with Loyola and will anchor an you can't deny him a thing. previous game against Detroit, experienced defense. Grace did a lot of nxperi­Marquette didn't test him too scored the game-winner for the Sophomore halfback Landon menting during the MarquPttP 
much, but if they did, Danny Irish. McEwan and senior forward ganw. Forward Danny Stebbins Lyons would have stopped "Tom Connaghan has nnver Paul Smith will atWrnpt to bust in particular may havn he1~n a them." done much up top at the for­through the Irish defense and bit surprised, as he played mosl 
Both Gracn and Irish co-cap­ward position," says Grace, knock the ball past Lyons. of the game in tlw backfield. tain Holfe Behrjc indicated that "But he is very. very dangerous Loyola coach Hay O'Connell is Grace was pleased with the re­they are confident that Notre from his midfield position. I a Notre Dame graduate and a sults of his dforts, though, Dame will continue to shut out would really hate to coach close friend of Grace, who is saying they worked to his opponents. against Torn Connaghan right concerned about playing this team's bnnelit ... 
"It's time to start our string now." game on the road. "Loyola is -Lyons needs only 13 more of shutouts, Behrje said. "We Next up for the Irish is an­very dangerous at horne," says contest appearances to break wanted to shut out Marquette, other MCC match on the road. Grace, "The last three times the all-time record held by and sure enough, we shut out Grace's crew will travel to we've played at Loyola the former Irish goalie John 
Marquette. If we shut people Chicago on Wednesday to meet games have gone into over· Milligan. Lyons has made 47 out, we're not going to lose." the Loyola Ramblers. The time."-appearances thus far in his ca­But to win in soccer, you need Ramblers currently hold a 3-2 "Piaying Notre Dame is one reer... to score goals. Despite holding record and haye several key of their biggest games of the -~idfielder Steve LaVignethe Waaiors in check, Lyons players returning from last year," adds Lyons, "They'll def­contmues to lead Notre Dame had to wait until the 87:10 year's team. initely be looking for the upset. in goals and scoring. 

., 


