
Slush abounds
IACCENT: Streisand album review Snow, sleet and freezing rain Monday, changing to rain by afternoon. High in the 30s. Rain will change to ligl"lt snow,
IVIEWPOINT: Anything for the team 
ending around midnight. 



VOL. XXII, NO. 85 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1989 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Protesters Hungary opts for storm U.S. 
multiparty -sy~tem
building in 
Associated Press on Hungarian radio late Satur­day and due for full broadcast
Pakistan BUDAPEST, Hungary--Hun­Sunday evening. gary's ruling Communist The system is expected to be 
Associated Press 
Party has moved toward legal under a new constitution sharing power with other poli­to be written next year.
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan-­tical groups by becoming the Grosz said he expected thePolice fired on hundreds of 
protesters who stormed a U.S. first Eastern European constitution to require new par­government office Sunday, to country to endorse a multi­-ties to operate "on a socialist party system. basis."
demand the United States ban a novel they consider offensive Party leader Karoly Grosz "If they do not accept the to Moslems. announced after a two-day constitution, then they cannot 
At least five people died and meeting of the Central Com­operate legally," he said. He 
mittee that the policy-making did not elaborate.
65 were injured, doctors said. 
body had decided a multiparty No date has been announced 
Police repeatedly fired semi­automatic weapons, rifles and system was the only way to for multiparty local or national shotguns at charging guarantee political pluralism parliamentary elections, but 
protesters who yelled in Hungary. both are due by the end of 1990. He also indicated the party Grosz's remarks indicated
"American dogs!" and hurled 
rocks and bricks during three had revised its view of the 1956 that dozens of political move­hours of fierce clashes. anti-Soviet revolt to acknowl­ments, many of which have 
The rioting erupted when edge the uprising started with begun in recent months, will be more than 2,000 fundamen­good intentions but went sour. allowed to participate. talists tried to march to the A multiparty system would Unlike alternative parties in 
U.S. information Center to "certainly provide an opportu­East Germany, Czechos­demand the United States ban nity for alliances" and partici­lovakia and Poland, Hungary's "Satanic Verses," a novel by pation by groups the Commu­groups are independent of the Salman Rushdie. nists would not be able to Communists. 
mobilize on their own, Grosz 
gee HUNGARY page 6see RIOT page 7 
said in an interview excerpted 


North tri_al postponed until Friday by Rehnquist 
Associated Press North's trial from Monday's classified material. district court enter an addi­A jury in the case was selec­scheduled start until Friday, If the proposal is approved tional protective order pre­
ted Thursday and returns toWASHINGTON--The chief 
when the full Supreme Court is by the judge handling the case, venting the release of classified court Monday morning. 
justice on Sunday ordered a scheduled to consider the de­U.S. District Judge Gerhard information vital to U.S. na­delay in the start of Oliver partment's objections to the Gesell, the Justice Department tional security interests," the Walsh, whose office is
North's Iran-Contra trial, but planned release of classified will ask the Supreme Court to Justice· Department said in a 
prosecuting North, had op­
the independent prosecutor material by North's defense. lift the stay so that the North statement. 
posed the Justice Department's 
and Justice Department later Hours later, Attorney Gen­trial may proceed, according to Rehnquist on Sunday or­efforts to delay the trial and
agreed on a plan aimed at let­eral Dick Thornburgh and in­statements issued-by the de­dered "that the trial proceed­wanted to proceed immedi­ting the trial go ahead. dependent counsel Lawrence partment and Walsh. ings in United States 
versus ately with opening arguments, Chief Justice William Walsh agreed to a proposal that Walsh and the department Oliver North. . . be stayed" saying that national securityRehnquist granted a .Justice would impose more stringent filed a sealed motion with pending consideration by the concerns had been amply ad­
Department request to delay safeguards on North's use of Gesell "which requests that the full Supreme Court on Friday. dressed. 
fv1eeting for candidates for student government set 
By BRIDGET ident, and a forty-five doiliif GOEYVAERTS spending limit for the senate. News Staff •There is no limit as to the 
number of posters, but the size Campaigning will begin at is limited to 11 inches by 17 
12:01 a.m., Feb. 20, for those inches. students running for positions •Posters will be restricted as student body class officers from certain areas · such as and off-campus commissioner. trees and classrooms, and the 
All students interested in tearing down of other candi­running for office must attend dates' posters is strictly a mandatory meeting sched­prohibited. uled for Feb. 14 at 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Any rule violations will be 
Any full-time Notre Dame dealt with by a three-member undergraduate in good aca­panel within the student gov­demic standing (with a GPA of ernment. 
2.0 or better) may run in the "The turn out at the first elections. election information meeting 
The election date is set for was by far less than last Feb. 27. Students must present years," said head Ombudsman ID's, and may vote in their own John Wilson, who is in charge residence halls. Students of the elections. studying abroad may also vote. 
The rules for campaining are "There are few interested in the same as last year: running for student body pres­
Acoustic Kings
•There is a one-hundred and ident, but we expect more to twenty-five dollar spending 
come to the meeting on the Sean and the Sun Kings, a campus band, plays at · ularly features campus and iocal bands during the 
limit for the student body pres-14th?' 
the Alumni Senior Club, Friday night. The Club reg-weekend. 
The Observer Monday, February 13, 1989
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

IN BRIEF 
John Burke has been named Oustanding Alumnus of the Year by the Notre Dame chapter of Beta Alpha Psi, a national association of accountants. In 1986 he was elected chairman of the executive committee of Grant Thornton. As chairman of the firm's board of directors, he is responsible for its national policies and pr?cedures. Burke has been active in a number of professional and civic groups, including the Economic_ Developme~t Coun­cil of Greater Kansas City, the Busmess Council of the Nelson Gallery and the American Heart Association. He is a former president of the Missouri Society of CPAs and a past member of the council of AICPA. -The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received the first installment of a $75,000 commitment from the USX Foundation Inc. in support of its new Center for Sensor Materials. :'We are grateful for this gift and gratified by the USX Foundation's recognition of the importance of this unique center,'' said University President Father Ed­ward Malloy. Notre Dame's Center for ~ensor ~a~e~ials involves University scientists from a variety of diSCiplmes 
. in research which contributes to the newly emerging sen­sor technologies. Its initial concentration is the develop­ment of metal oxide semiconducting materials for poten­tial use as gas sensors. -The Observer 
Barry Lopez, 1966 Notre Dame graduate and author of several books, essays, and articles on natural history, has been appointed visiting W: Harold and ~arth~ Welch Pro­fessor of American Studies at the Umversity of Notre Dame for the fall 1989 semester by Professor Timothy O'Meara University provost. Lopez has published several essays a~d articles in a variety of journals incl1Jding No~re Dame Magazine, and six books, the most recent of which is entitled Arctic Dreams. -The Observer 

OF INTEREST 
Student government car:tdida~~s for presidential, vice-presidential, and senatonal positions must attend a mandatory meeting in the Sorin Room of the LaFortune Student Center at 7:30p.m., Tuesday. Petitions for signa­tures will be distributed. -The Observer 
Proposition 42 is the topic of discussion in the Iceberg Debates today from 9-10 p.m. Semifinals will take place Feb. 20, and the final will be held Feb. 28. -The Observer 
Beta Alpha Psi Initiation Banquet will be .held today at 6:30p.m. at the University Ciub. All new initiates are required to attend. -The Observer 
Mandatory French and Spanish place!Dent e_xams will be given on Feb. 21 and Feb. 28, respectively, m the ianguage lab, Room 202 O'Sha~gh~essr Hall. Students who have studied French or Spamsh m high school but have not yet taken a course in those language_s at ~otre !>arne must take a placement exam prior to r~gistra~IOn. Sign-up sheets and more information are available m Room 251 O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
Freshman and transfer orientation applications are now available in the student government office, second floort LaFortune. Applicants will be notified as to the time of their interview. -The Observer 
Juniors may register for Junior Parents' Weekend today and Tuesday from 2-10 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. You must bring IDs for each person you reg­ister_ All JPW participants must be registered by 10 p.m. Tuesday_ -The Obseroer 
WSND-FU is looking for classical music announcers. No prior experience is necessary. Call Tara Creedon at 283-3867orLisaMeMahooat283-4230 for more information. -The Obsener 
Fallw Robert Pefton director of the Insitute for Pastarai and Soda) Kinistry, presents a film and discu..e­sim m "Diversity in Resolutions for Peace,'! ai: 8 p.m. today in Carroll .Auditorium, Made"furva Hall. -The Obser­ver 

........ JrAM.r ___ Usa Tugman .....,............, __ B&:t.iiideUeShilts 'I' a .tim Xereurio 
.:_Uilolr_____ ='o~ 
ClopJ JrAM.r ____ Cbrilitine Walsh __..,. ~ Editor __ GftR Guffey 
Vietl>poiwt Copy EditOt" .. ~Walsh Aceeat EditOt" ............... Robyn SJJDmons Aceeat Copy EditOt" ............. Mike Restle 
~-~~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ..~:Wi5 
ND Day EditOt" ........... Jennifer Photographer ........................... Don Pan 
'Dill..._.tuSP5 599 2-4000) is published Monday tbroup Friday acept .....__ _.~periads. 111e o..ner is published by the students of the U • • ~!lime lllllls.iat Mary's Collqc. Sublcriptions may be purcbu­..,_,_i,_,_,~ per -.tcr) by writina 'l1le o..ner, P.O. Box Q, Noue 
DIIIDe, b6Ba.e6$56. . . 'Dit~ila -bcr of 'l1le ~...__ All rcproductlOD nlhts arc

__,_ 



'Soul Food Cookin' ' reinforces stereotypes 
Last Thursday the dining halls decided to make a contribution to the Year of Cultural Diversity with "Soul Food Cookin'." 
While a videotape of Martin Luther King Jr. played in the corner of South Dining Hall, so­called authentic black dishes such as catfish, ribs, and best of all, watermelon were served. 
The incredible crassness of this is amazing. At a time when Notre Dame is trying to make the campus more diverse, it shows just how f_ar 
we still have to go.One of President Malloy's goals when he took office was to increase minority enrollment. Even though the campus is still overwhelm­ingly white, he has made some progress in this area. Just bringing more minorities into the school is not enough, however, to solve the prob­lem and make the campus racially harmonious. 
For that to happen, there has to be interaction · between different groups of people, who learn from one another, and learn to respect one an­
other's differences--and that isn't happening. 
Look around the dining hall right now, or look at the Huddle the next time you're walking through LaFortune Student Center. In general, the white people sit together, the black people sit together, and so forth. There are exceptions, of course, but it's amazing how we segregate ourselves. 
Numbers alone won't change people's atti­tudes. I know this from my own experience. My high school was much more racially diverse than Notre Dame, but the same problem oc­cured there. People divided themselves up along racial lines, and stereotypes flourished. 
Before the situation at Notre Dame can truly change, there has to be a change in the atmo­sphere here. Most of the students at Notre Dame come from predominantly white, upper-middle­class backgrounds. They either went to mostly white Catholic schools or mostly white subur­ban public schools. 
Once again, there are exceptions to this, but if anyone checks the student body profile, they'll see that it's true. The 1987 student body 
survey showed that 92 percent of Notre Dame 
students are white. Eighty-nine percent are 
Catholic-. Ninety percent come from families 
whose income is above $30,000 a year, and 61 
percent over $50,000 a year. . , 
With such a homogenous stu~ent body, Its 
not surprising that people who fall outside the 

Tim O'Keefe 
Assistant News Editor 



able. Even I, one of those white middle-class students from a Catholic background, get surprised sometimes. 
When I was at the dining hall Thursday, a few of us were talking about how tacky and tasteless it was to serve watermelon. One of the students sitting next to me turned and asked why anyone would get offended by the dining hall serving watermelon during "Soul Food Cookin' " night. He wasn't aware that there 
was any connection between the two. 

Before there can be meaningful progress in making Notre Dame truly diverse, the Univer­sity must become the sort of place that wei­comes differences, that makes cultural and ra­cial minorities feel at home. Right now, Notre Dame admits minorities, but they are not inte­grated into the campus community. Notre Dame's identity is still solidly white and middle­class. 
I don't know how to changE~ the atmosphere on campus. The Administration can admit more minorities, but it can't legislate people's atti­tudes. 
A farce like "Soul Food Cookin' "atthe dining hall, however, doesn't help. Far from promot­ing cultural diversity, it only reinforces the 

narrow "typical" range m~ feel uncomfort-_ stereotypes that block understanding. 
~need someone with theronfidmreofa~ 
thededicationof amaratbooerandthe ~ofanexplore£ 
W: heed a face Corps wluneeer. Call us ul.-...24-8580, &t. 9~. 
~'tareCorps. 


Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer JMt advertising. JUt 
C Call 239-6900 ~ 
uOOO~ t7~~~ tJ~[IDa u~ ~ i1TJ{1M~~ n® Sophomores ore selling shot glosses ~it the dining holl for S1. 
GET.READY TO CHASE A W A V1YOUR FEBRUAIRV BLUES 
NEXT WEEK, FEB. 19-24 WE'VE GOT SOME FUN 
PLANNED FOR VOUt 
SundaY-1 <l-Basketba11 game 2pm Ange1 a food raffle at halftime. Monday:20-STEVE KIMBROUGH and a Washington birthday party. 9:15 Haggar PlJ1r1or 
, 
Tuesday: 21-REGENCY singing group 9pm Carroll Auditorium FREE 
Wed,Thur,Fri-BIG S1 9& 11 pm Carroll Aud Jhrusday: 23-RAGTIME, Free Hoggor Gome Room 7pm 

1989 Spring jlij_Jtlf::: Program Guide {Requests: 239-6400) 
••,.


MON  ,.UES  WED  rauas  FBI  SUN  
7am­9am  Sharon Young  Craig Mayeux  Chris Malin  Jeff Jotz  Maria Sullivan  ~ C><  
9am­11am  Kate Lentz  Mike Ford  Mark Bintinger  Greg Athas  Mike Roe & Paul Hart  10am-1pm Christine  10am-1pm Joe •• .... ·•  
11am­1pm  Mike McMahon  Chris Walter "Cooking with Wine"  11am-12pm Matt Hylanda  Chris Brown  11am-12pm Matt Hylanda  Wassell  & Brian Gant  
12pm-1pm Brian Roche  12pm-1pm Brian Roche  
1pm­3pm  John Straunton  Hugh Gallagher  Jason Winslade ''The Yin Yang Conspiracy"  Paul Saiz  Paul Czarnecki  Pat Kujawa "P.K. & Kid Dexter"  Chris Betils  
3pm­Spm  Jeff Henderson  Jeff Brinker "Caveman Show"  Neil Higgins  Paul Brauweiler  Tina Valicenti & Tim Frommer  Paul Keffler  Ann Seifert  
Spm­7pm  Dave Kidder  Mike Pierre  Kelly Boglarsky & Kristen Baumler  Tony Bonfiglio & Rob Fisher  Jeff Gerlach  Brian Roche  Dan Janick "Spam a Ia carte"  
7pm­9pm  Carrie Thomas  Bill ~einshelmer  Heather Ingraham  Sandra McBride  Luis Munoz  Ted Leo & ~hris Infante Out of Step"  Chris McGuin ''Thrashing, Bashing, & Banging"  
9pm­11pm  Rod Strickland  9pm-10pm Issues '89 1Opm-11 pm Soortsbeat  Julie Courtney  Tim Fitzpatrick  Shawn Nowierski  Mike Scanlan  Chris Knaus  
~1pm­~am  Tim Mulrooney  Dave McMahon  Erich Straub  Mike Stefanchik  Kevin Flaherty  Kathy Morrey  Scott Tallarida  

Specialty Shows 7pm-9pm: 
Tuesday: Reggae Thursday: New Releases 
& Cheap Trick  
Friday:  Dance Trax  
Saturday:  Hardcore  
Sunday:  Heavy Metal  


-----~--~---­
Monday, February 13, 1989 The Observer 
Dance of many nations 
International students stage adance performance for Continuing Education. 
faculty members Saturday evening at the Center for 





Soviets turn over last outpost near Kabul in final withdrawal 
Associated Press 
KABUL, Afghanistan--So­viet soldiers on Sunday handed over their last and most dan­gerous outpost, as they prepared to return home and leave the Afghan army to defend the capital against Mos­lem guerrillas. 
The Soviet-backed Afghan government renewed its offer to negotiate with the guerrillas. 
A Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman said the remaining 300 Soviet soldiers in Kabul would leave Tuesday, weather permitting. 
The departure would be a day ahead of the deadline set by a U.N.-sponsored accord to end nine years of Soviet interven­tion in Afghanistan. 
The last soldiers were guard­ing the Kabul airport while the Soviets completed a food airlift to the capital, which the guer­rillas are expected to besiege when the Red Army is gone. 
A U.N. airlift of food, medicine and blankets was suspended Sunday after Et­hiopia pulled out of the pro­gram, officials said. 
An Ethiopian airliner made one flight to Kabul, unloaded 32 tons of wheat and then refused to return to the city, said Sadruddin Aga Khan, co­ordinator of the U.N. office of Economic and Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan. 
"I'm not able to say if or when the next flight will be," Aga Khan said at a news con­ference in Islamabad, Pakis­
tan. 
page 3 


Baker opens talks on nuclear strategy 
Associated Press 
BONN, West Germany--Sec­retary of State James Baker on Sunday opened critical talks with West German leaders who have balked at a NATO plan to upgrade short-range nuclear missiles in Europe. 
Baker flew in from London after sessions with British leaders and immediately met with Foreign Minister Hans­Dietrich Genscher, a strong advocate of reducing nuclear tensions in Europe. 
Baker, on a six-day trip to visit the 15 U.S. Nato allies, told reporters during the flight he was not worried about West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's statement last week that 
the  Lance  missiles  now  
deployed  are  adequate  until  
1995.  

Under the proposal before the North Atlantic Treaty Or­ganization, the current 70-mile range would be extended with new rockets that could hit tar­gets about 320 miles away. 
"I think what we need to do is to find out exactly what the German government's position is going to be," Baker told reporters. 
Genscher, greeting Baker at rain-swept Bonn-Cologne air­port, pledged to "work cooperatively together." 
Commenting on his meetings earlier Sunday with Priine Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain and Sir Geoffrey Howe, the foreign secretary, Baker said he received support on many NATO issues. 
"So far, it seems to me, we've got agreement on a broad range of issues, ranging from broad East-West themes to regional issues," he said. 
He declined to report spec if­ically what was said about the NATO plan during those meetings. 
Earlier, Baker had cautioned that his tour is "primarily an agenda-setting trip" while President Bush's administra­tion formulates its foreign and defense policies. 
However, Baker's visit to West Germany comes after its leaders hinted in recent weeks they were unhappy with the NATO proposal to begin replac­ing the short-range missiles in Europe. 
West German leaders are 
concerned that upgrading the 
missiles could poison the atmo­
sphere for further progress in 
East-West disarmament talks. 
NATO Secretary-General 
Manfred Woerner tried to give 
the NATO proposal another 
boost Sunday. 
In a radio interview with the 
British Broadcasting Corp., he 
said the plan would not provoke 
the Soviet Union. 
Woerner said the Soviet 
Union had just finished its 
short-range modernization by 
deploying its new SS-21 mis­
siles in East Germany. 
NATO is expected to make a 
decision on its plan in three 
months. 
Bonn is Baker's fourth stop 
on his six-day trip that began 
in Canada and took him to 
Iceland on Saturday. 


page 4 The Observer Monday, February 13, 1989 
Yacht sails New York to San Francisco in record tiime 
Associated Press SAN FRANCISCO--The yacht Thursday's Child sailed triumphantly under the Golden Gate Bridge on Sunday after a voyage from New York, by way of Cape Horn, that shattered a 135-year-old record for sailing ships by eight days. The 60-foot sloop crossed the finish line at 12:32 p.m. PST and was met by cheers and yells from hundreds of spec­tators. Thursday's Child set sail Nov. 23. 
The three crew members were all on deck and waved to the crowd after bettering the 229-foot clipper ship Flying Cloud's 189-day trip during the Gold Rush. 
The crew decided to dock at Blossom Rock, about 2 miles from the Golden Gate, because they said the submerged point is where old clipper ships used to drop anchor. 
About 80 ships were out on San Francisco Bay to greet the acht while other s ectators 
gathered on the roof of Fort Point and at the south tower of the Golden Gate Bridge. A biplane flew overhead trailing a sign that read: "We love you TC." 
Thursday's Child's entrance into the Bay was delayed for hours by a four-knot outgoing tide and by a lack of wind that had left the crew frustrated. 
The crew tried everything, including putting out a large sail called spinnaker, but all its sails droo ed limply. Finally, under a bright, cloudless sky the yacht was able to sail under the Golden Gate. 

Dozens of sailboats and powerboats headed out the Golden Gate to greet the yacht, which has logged 15,000 miles in its quest to better Flying Cloud's 189-day voyage. The expected Sunday arrival would break the record by eight days. 
The Coast Guard sent a 95­foot cutter and four utility boats to escort the yacht into the Golden Gate and lessen the danger of a spectator boat ac­cidentically ramming Thursday's Child. 
In a ship-to-shore interview Sunday, Thursday's Child crew member Courtney Hazleton told The Associated Press he had "that coming-home feeling." 
"It's kind of like a mixed bag of emotions right now," said Hazleton. "Both relief, let­down, . that the whole thing's over, and just a general feeling of accomplishment." 

New }brk City Seattle Phoenix $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip Denver Chicago Boston $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip RJrt Lauderdale San Francisco LosAngeles$99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip $99 rolllldtrip airfares on Northwest Airlines. Aspecial offer for students,only for Arilerican Express Cardmembers. Ifyou want to go places, it's time for the American And, of course, you'll enjoy all the exceptionalExpress® Card. benefits and personal service you would expect from Because now you can take advantage of new travel American Express. privileges on Northwest Airlines onlyforfull-time The only requirements for privileged travel: you students who carry the American Express Card must be aCardmember, you must be afull-time stu­Travel privileges that offer: dent, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines .~ 7Wo $99 roundtrip tickets-fly to any of tickets with the Card.* NORTI-IWEST the more than 180 cities served by North-Getting the Card is easier than ever because now AIRLINES west in th~ contiguous 48 United .states. you can apply by phone. Just calll-800-942-AMEX. LOOK ro us Only one t1cket may be used per SIX-We'll take your application and begin to process it month period. right away. What's more, with our Automatic SpecialQuarterlyNorthux!st Destination Disrounts Approval offers, throughout1989-up to 25% off the lowest available fare. you can qualify now 5,000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORLDPERKS® while you're still in free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets school. you afree roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies Apply now. Fly later in the contiguous 48 United States or Canada. -for less. Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX *Some restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. Current student Cardmember.; automatically receive two $99 voucher.; in the maiL © 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.  


---~--------------~------~--~ --­


ICEBERG DEBATES 

Proposition  42  at  its  
convention  in  1990"  
FARLEY (CON)  hosts  FISHER (PRO)  
STANFORD (PRO)  hosts  LEWIS  (CON)  
ZAHM (PRO)  hosts  SORIN (CON)  


"That the NCAA should adopt 
* P.E. GETS A BYE TO SEMI FINALS SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT AND THE CENTER FO~ SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Monday, February 13, 1989 
Swaggart says his TV ministry may fold 
Associated Press 
BATON Rouge, La.--Evan­gelist Jimmy Swaggart, who has accused "pornographers" of trying to ruin him, says his television ministry will end this month unless he receives an in­flux of donations. 
"If for whatever reason this week, you close the door in my face or you pass me by ... Feb. 26 will be the final telecast for this ministry," Swaggart said in his television program dis­tributed for broadcast this weekend. 
"You are making a choice today, a choice between the pornographers that are working more diligently than you will ever know... It's either the pornographers or it's us, it's either the devil or dark­ness, or it's God and light," Swaggart said. 
In the latest edition of Pen­thouse magazine, a New Or­leans stripper said she per­formed sex acts for Swaggart while he watched. The allega­tions leveled by Catherine Mary Kampen were similar to those of Debra Murphree that led to Swaggart's ouster last year from the Assemblies of God. Murphree, who has lived in Patoka, Ind., has also been a New Orleans prostitute, and said she performed pornograp­hic acts for Swaggart. 
Swaggart has said that he never met Kampen and that Penthouse published the arti­cle even though the ministry presented the magazine with evidence that the allegations 
were false. Attorneys for Swag­gart have said a libel suit will be filed against the magazine. 
Kampen's employer at a "strip-o-gram" service has said that Kampen told her sister that she made up the story after seeing a similar story last year involving Murphree, who had attended Princeton Community High School in Gibson County, Ind. Murphree left the Gibson County community of Patoka in southern Indiana in 1982. 
Kampen has said she stands by her allegations. 
In a tearful confession to his congregation last February, Swaggart said he had sinned, but did not reveal specifics. He was defrocked by the Assem­blies after refusing to stay away from the pulpit for at least one year. 
During his television show, Swaggart said there is "not one shred of truth in what they did, said, portrayed or printed." He also said the stories of sexual misconduct had been dis­tributed by "pornographers aided, sadly to say, by some preachers." 
"It's either the pornog­raphers or us. They will have their way and eliminate Jimmy Swaggart from television. That's what they wanted to do," Swaggart said. 
Swaggart has said that Pen­thouse publisher Bob Guccione was angry because of the min­istry's involvement in a drive to get convenience stores to quit carrying Penthouse and other men's magazines. 

A man cries over the coffin of one of the victims of Saturday. One hundred forty-four, including an Amer­the air crash in the Azores, Wednesday, when the ican crew of seven, perished in the disaster. first 15 bodies were returned to Bergamo, Italy early 

~ 
r 
r 
~e.6________________________-_-_ 

Armed Israeli soldiers on alert in Arab east Jerusalem Friday where additional troops were brought in after reports of possible protest demonstrations. A group 
Chocolate gives 'sensual pleasure' 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I.-The romantic effect of giving some­one a heart-shaped box of choc­olates on Valentine's Day could be more than sentimental. 
"Chocolate does have amorous value," said George Higgins, a pastry chef instruc­tor at the 8,000-student Johnson & Wales University in Provi­dence, one of the biggest cooking schools in the world. 
"A chemical in the chocolate hits a pleasure center in the brain," Higgins said. "As a gift from a lover to a lover, it would certainly help do the trick." 
"The taste of chocolate is a sensual pleasure in itself, exist­ing in the same world as sex," sex therapist Ruth Westheimer wrote in her column, ''Ask Dr. Ruth." 
Chocolate contains phenylet­hylamine, or PEA, a natural 
Hungary 
continued from page 1 
A new pro-Marxist group with an anti-Stalinist platform was founded Saturday. An­other group, named after a leader of the national peasants' party quashed in the Commu­nist takeover in 1948, an­nounced plans to form a party calling for individual land ownership. 
Hungarians from the altern­ative groups and Western diplomats saw Grosz's state­ment as a victory for Commu­nist Party reformers. They in­~lude Politburo member Imre 
__ -_-__ __

-_--_-_-_-_-_-_-_~~~~~-------T~h~e~O~b~se~N~e~r____________ ~--~~~~---------------------~------~M--o~n~d-~a~y~,_F_e_bru a~~1_3~,_19_8_9 
Jewish settler·s hold sit-in pro~test 
mood-altering chemical also found in the human brain. 
"Win a lottery, get a promo­tion, fall in love, especially fall in love, and your PEA level shoots up. You're optimistic, sociable, and peppy," accor­ding to Chocolate, An 11­lustrated History, by Marcia and Fredrick Morton. "But if things go wrong, especially if something goes wrong in your love life, you turn listless and depressed because your PEA level is down." 
Cocoa butter melts at about body temperature, "so when you put good chocolate in your mouth it begins to melt, it be­comes a sensual thing," said Gayle Steinhart, of Gayle's Chocolates in Newport, in a telephone interview from her store in Royal Oak, Mich. She said her sales are 20 times nor­mal on Valentine's Day and the day before. 
Pozsgay, who two weeks ago presented a startling reassess­ment of the 1956 anti-Soviet revolt. 
Pozsgay stunned the nation by saying the revolt was a popular uprising, not a counter­revolution as it has been offi­cially called for 32 years. 
An unprecedented discussion in the media and society fol­lowed. 
Grosz said Pozsgay had been too hasty in announcing his views. 
A source, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said Pozsgay had told the Central Committee his statement was his "personal view,' a switch 
But there's also an argument against the romantic effects of chocolate. 
"I really wonder whether giving chocolate for Valen­tine's Day is really the best type of gift if one wants to pursue any type of intense, romantic affair," said Judith Wurtman, a research scientist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology's department of nutrition and food sciences. "The high fat and the high sugar content may make you very sleepy." 
"If you're dealing in a situa­tion where the woman is being pursued by the man, it might slow her down theoretically enough that she can be caught," she added. 
Whatever the real effect of chocolate, the ongms of chocolate-giving on Valentine's Day are obscure. 
from his earlier position that he based his statements on a party report. 
Grosz indicated the commit­tee had reached a compromise on the official view of the 1956 revolt. 
He said it started as an upris­ing in which many "honest people" fought against a dated regime, but ended with "coun­terrevolutionary elements'' gradually gaining strength. 
During the past 30 years the official view had become dis­torted, and "we forgot those popular elements," he said. 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM--About 40 Jewish settlers protested stonings and bombings with a sit-in at a Palestinian mayor's office Sunday, and five Arabs were injured in clashes with soldiers, Israeli and Arab reports said. 
The protest underscored in­creasing settler vigilance that this month included angry rampages into Arab towns and stoning of Arab cars. 
"Me and my friends decided we should get the message across to Qalqilya and the mayor that we have lost our pa­tience," settler Shlomo Katan told Israel radio after the group barged into Mayor Mahmoud Abu Sneineh's office in the West Bank city of Qalqilya. 
The settlers warned Abu Sneineh they would riot if he did not stop Palestinians from stoning and firebombing their cars which pass through Qalqilya to and from the West Bank. 
Katan, council head in Alfe Mena~he settlement, said the settlers wanted to talk with Sneineh "in a good atmo­sphere." But Israel radio said soldiers spirited the mayor out of the office before talks could take place. 
A military officer forced the settlers out of the office about three hours later, the reports said. 
Meanwhile, two left-wing members of Parliament sent a letter to Attorney General Yosef Harislh, claiming the sit­in in Qalqilya was part of a well-planned strategy by a newly creat,ed settlers' militia of "a few hundred" members. 
The daily Israeli Haaretz re­ported Sunday that children from Kedumim and Karnei Shomron settlements, both near Qalqilya, have begun stoning Arabs from their school buses in response to the at­tacks. 
+ 
.American 
B~dCross 
Be a volunteer. 

, BRUNO'S ORIGINAL PIZZA and Family Restaurant 

Free Delivery Daily Call 289-4625 *Dinner Entrees Startin!~ Today! 
82.00 off ANY PIZZA 
With this coupon This Monday, Tuesday, or W'ednesday 
*Coupon Good for dining in Restaurant only 

Applications for 
Are now available in the ~tudent Government Office -2nd floor Lafortune 
You will be contacted as to the time of your interview. 
Monday, February 13, 1989 
Pravda: NATO thinks East Bloc economy falling behind 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW--Pravda told its Soviet readers on Sunday that NATO believes the East Bloc economies are doing so poorly that they will fall further be­hind the West for another two decades. 
In a short answer to a reader's question, the official Communist Party newspaper said Voice of America did not lie when it reported the pes­simistic economic projections given by NATO official Hen­ning Waggoner. 
But Pravda said the conclu­sions in the report were "on Waggoner's conscience." 
Pravda summarized the NATO report, saying it projected no more than 2 per~ cent economic growth per year and a widening economic gap between East and West until well into the next century. 
"The system's deficiencies are so obvious that (the Soviet Union) has no choice but to con­tinue reforms. This signifi­cantly reduces its opportuni­ties to use national funds for military affairs," Pravda said in explaining Waggoner's stand. 
Pravda said the official rec­ommended against any West­ern aid to the Soviet Union. 
Film about Norwegian seal killing stirs major protests 

Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden-­Hundreds of angry television viewers called the Norwegian Embassy, major newspapers and conservationists to react to a film about Norwegian seal hunting, Swedish media re­ported Sunday. 
The documentary ran on Swedish television Saturday night and showed seal puppies being clubbed to death and 

~fiiiDlr~~ff~~lr 
at notre Dame February 21-25 
Four Events to Warm-Up Winter 
:·.·· .•.•:·::.,.J:,::· .·:··· 
Sponsored bg Student Union Board · · 
D~======================================~D 


ATTENTION JUNIORS 
Applications are currently being accepted for the following position: 
Controller 
•Acquire 
an understanding of the internal control of an overall accounting system. 

• 
Gain practical hands-on accounting experience. 

• 
Be directly responsible for the financial operations; including purchasing, payroll, receivables, and payables of a small business. 

• 
Gain knowledge of state, local, and federal taxes 

• 
Must be a junior accounting major. 


Call Chris Donnelly at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position. 
=Ihe-=ObserYer-_
-·= 
seals apparently being skinned 
alive. 
"I have never seen anything 
as disgusting. I am boycotting 
Norway," 23-year-old Freddie 
Karlsson told the Mtonbladet 
daily. 
Some viewers called police to 
threaten attacks on Norwegian 
installations, said Swedish 
radio. 
It has not been shown in Nor­way, which is lobbying to end a 1983 European Community ban on importing seal pup skin. 

Stone cold  The Obselver I Donald Pan  
Freshman Kevin Flanigan gives incoming freshman  sculpture prominently displayed along the steps of  
Kathleen Collins a tour of the campus, including the  the Edna and Leo Riley Hall of Art and Design.  

Riot 
continued from page 1 
Pakistan banned the novel on grounds that it offends Mos­lems by suggesting the prophet Mohammed was fallible. India also banned the novel. 
In Kennebunkport, Maine, where President Bush was spending the weekend, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said U.S. officials were monitoring the Is­lamabad situation closely. Fitzwater said the national se­curity adviser, Brent Scowcroft, telephoned Bush early Sunday to tell him of the riot. 
"God is great!" protesters screamed as they smashed windows and started fires after driving off scores of police. 
They tore down the Ameri­
can flag at the center and danced in delight as it was burned, along with effigies representing the Indian-born Rushdie and the United States. "Hang Salman Rushdie," one man yelled. 
Three U.S. diplomats and 15 Pakistanis employeed at the center were in the building at the time but were not hurt, U.S. diplomats said. 
"There was a pitched battle going on outside," said Kent Obee, head of the center, which contains a public library and dispenses information about the United States. 
Doctors at area hospitals, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said at least five people had been killed by police gunfire and 65 protesters shot and wounded. 
They said the injured in­cluded Moslem theology stu­dents and about 20 police hit by rocks or beaten by the rampag­ing crowd. 
Sing{e 1\pse ~{oris 
o/a[entine 's 1JatJ Specia[ 
Carnations Boxed-$1S'.50 7 dozen 
Also available: roses and plants 
Delivery Available 
Order by Phone 289-7673 
0 
or come 1n 511 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend 
D~======================================~D 
page 8 The Observer Monday, February 13, 1989 


30/Month 
Call: 239-7477 

® 1989 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Viewpoint 
page 9
Monday, February 13, 1989 
Football groupies play crucial roles 

It seems like only yesterday that the football team won the national cham­pionship. Needless to say, I was ec­static about their achievements, imme­diately claiming their victory at the Fiesta Bowl as a personal triumph. Friends at home soon realized the im­portant role I played in this national championship, as I so often reminded them. Of course, the rally last Tuesday is not the end of our university-wide self-congratulations. There will be a parade, I understand, on Saint Patrick's Day so that others may com­pliment us as hardily as we can our­selves. 
Rob Hennig 
ruby tuesday 
Surely with all of this celebration, we regular students (but still the collective twelfth man on the team) should not forget our proper place. The student body at Notre Dame is among the brightest, most talented group in the nation. This is why I stand incredulous when I hear of people leaving notes on football players doors, stealing pic­tures, and even going so far as intro­ducing themselves, without proper notice. 
Can such a student who would engage in such actions be from the same insti­tution of higher learning that I myself attend? Surely not. Even with alumni connections, the committee on under­graduate admissions would not admit a football groupie of such questionable manners and intelligence. But alas, this must have been the case. 
How one could hold such ill-founded opinions of the role of football players vis-a-vis their fellow students, is beyond me. This is not just a sign of a "typical freshman geek" but of a seriously abnormal tendency. This in­cident did serve the purpose of getting me to think of whether this is not a more general malaise. 
So that such a mistake does not hap­pen again, I have composed some rules of thumb which might serve as guidelines for future reference. (Please clip and save.) 
1) . In meeting a football player, all freshman women should· immediately offer themselves as possible dates. A player should not have to ask you, you should volunteer your services for the good of the team. Sometimes this may involve seeking out players, following them around campus, or relaying mes­sages through friends. Under no cir­cumstances is any freshman female to leave a note on a player's door. Notes may be left, however, with the coaching staff who will then direct you in your proper role. Women have a vital role to play in the successful nurturing of the team. Football can be a tough sport and without the availability of female groupies to take some of the pressure off, it is doubtful any player could long endure. Although this may require some sacrifices, just remember na­tional championships are won or lost by the willingness of freshmen women to meet every player's desire, or at least those players who start. 
2). Guys should be aware of any foot­ball players in the dorm. Sometimes, you might be asked to perform favors, late-night runs to the Oak Room, bor­rowing of miscellaneous items like shampoo, soap, stereo equipment, etc. Think nothing of it. Although not every­one· can be fortunate enough to have a football player live down the hall or (if you are lucky enough) right next door, 
you can make up for it by locating the player in nearest proximity to you and offer your services. Guys with sisters or girlfriends may wish to offer these ladies to players, should freshmen wo­men not be readily available. 
3). Geeks, throats, and anyone with a GPA above a 3.8, should locate all of the football players in their classes. For midterm and final examinations, please sit directly in front of any player and offer your assistance. Although it has been known that football players like to sit among themselves for tests, it is your duty to ensure this behavioral tendency does not bring down the grades of the entire cluster of players. Accordingly, it may help to arrange sig­nals before class. Although taking tests outright or handing in papers for our lads is not condoned, one would hate to hold you responsible when certain players are ruled academically in­eligible. 
4). Faculty can do their part by hel­ping to make Notre Dame a university our football team can be proud to at­tend. It is not my place here to suggest which specific methods should be used to pass all the players. Nevertheless, take-home exams for athletes, making the final optional and extra credit for minutes played have all been effective tools. While the geek tutoring our players during exams can help, one should not leave such important mat­ters to chance. 
5). Perhaps the most vital role is that of the administration in insuring that proper focus is maintained. While it is important to maintain a legitimate pro­gram, one should never let mere con­ventions get in the way of winning. While student and faculty groupies can do a lot, they can only go so far as the administration lets them. Accordingly, the administration must see to it that 
winning becomes the first priority. Sometimes this may involve recruiting in a shady manner. More often than not, however, simply placing our foot­ball players on a pedestal above regu­lar students can achieve the desired ef­fect. 
We all know "meeting football players at ND is sort of like meeting movie stars in Hollywood ... the thrill and excitement is great. I mean, what else is there to do in South Bend?" It is perhaps the greatest tragedy that these players are still students, meaning they must be labeled in the same category as regular commoners like myself. Although there is little we can do to rectify this situation in the near future, by granting football players godlike status in the minds of other students, maybe we can ease this burden. 
One should not allow a faux pas on the part of some freshmen girls to ruin the whole barrel. Because these few do not know the rules, it should not be al­lowed to obscure the role everyone else must play. By following these easy steps, I guarantee the proper focus of football at Notre Dame will be main­tained, not just for freshmen women, but for the University as a whole. 
Rob Hennig is a senior economics major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
P.O. Box Q

Serving soul food spreads stereotype 
Dear Editor: 
Hooray for soul food day! The one day I decide to skip dinner, I heard they served my kind of food. 
The dinner in honor of Black history only harbored cultural stereotypes, not cultural diversities. Neckbones, greens, barbecue ribs, catfish--and I cannot forget the watermelon--were among the foods served. How can one operationally define "soul food?" I don't particularly care for many of the items on the list. And tell me how did they manage to get watermelon in the wintertime? . 
I was appalled and disgraced when I heard of the attempt they made to em­ulate "soul food cookin'." That meal only served to heighten the awareness of stereotypes. It seems the only thing University Food Services forgot to dis­play around was cotton. I am sorry I missed a dinner about my stereotypes, oh, I mean my culture. 
Chelsea Latimer Lewis Hall Feb. 10, 1989 
Doonesbury 
IA/tU/JM/3. 8AO<. !A£'RE: H&R& TAIJ(JN6 70 &l?rTORIAL-CAR­700NI5T HARVFJfF?XJT8 fJJ30fJT 
! 7H& ''CAF<TOONI%' : MOON IIJlZK.''l 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un~verslty of Notre Dame duLac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of the adm1n~strat10n of e1ther 1nstotut1on. The news is reported as accurately and obrect1vely as poss1ble Unsigned ed1tonals represent the opin~on of the maJOnty of the Editorial Board Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the community and the free express1on of varying 
Gary Trudeau 
ffS A//30 OUR. l.fJN6 
a'AYOF fORMAUY OV&f<J?U£, 
7HANJ<JN6 l?U5H IF YOU FOR. /?AN QUAYt/3. A51< M&. 
I 
Editorial Board  
Edttor·m-Chief  . . .  Chris Murphy  
Managmg Editor  Chns Donnelly  
News Editor  . . . . Regis Coccia  
News Editor  Mark Mclaughlin  
Viewpoint EdttDI  .... Dave Bruner  
Sports Editor  . Marty Strasen  
Accent Editor  Beth Healy  
Saint Mary·s Edttor.  Sandy Cerimele  
Photo Editor . .  Michael Moran  

Quote of the Day 
"Good communication is just as stimulating as black coffee, and just as hard to sleep after." 
-Anne Morrow Lindbergh 
Osserations Board 
Business Manager John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager . Molly Killen Advertising Manager L1nda Goldschnldl Production Manager Bernadette Shifts Systems Manager .. Mark Ridgeway Controller Todd Hardiman Graphic Arts Manager Marga Bruns 
op1n1ons on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
--~~---...-.---------~-----------~­
Accent
pag_e 10 Monday, February 13, 1989 
More than just 'A Fine Romance' 
A 
fine man. A fine woman. one episode, for example, an ments in the style of "Moon­A fine romance. These FBI agent mistakes Michael lighting" permeate every three objects are carefully for a Soviet spy. One can aspect of the show. Friday brought together in a witty, easily imagine the situations has her head in the clouds; zany European adventure­that arise from the mixup, Louisa is pushy and sarcas­comedy. During a season of and the show leaves no stones tic; Ernie is always "in the "copycat" new series and of possible plot twists un­dark." These are fun; real deteriorating popular series, turned. characters that will entertain ABC's new dramedy, "A Fine A fine aspect of the pro­and amuse the audience. Romance," is a fine piece of gram is the delightful fact entertainment. that things are seldom as 
Probably the best aspect of 
this refreshing program is its JOE BUCOLO 
uncanny ability to present a 
good story. The show's pro­
ducers realize that without 
good scripts, even the best of 
actors will flounder. In one
To Be Continued... 
plot, Michael is given a doll, 
The crazy antics of this they seem. Michael and which Louisa rips open. She "Romance" trip into Louisa seem to be a couple, returns it to a store where the households at 8 p.m. on yet they are divorced; they owner notices a mark on the Thursdays in ABC's seem to hate each other, yet doll's foot. He immediately r "deathslot," a name referring become jealous when the hands Louisa a coin, of which to the fact that its competi­other has a date. In the previ­she thinks nothing; however, tion is NBC's powerhouse, ously mentioned episode, the the viewers realize the coin is "The Cosby Show." The fine FBI agent is really a crimin­a clue to the plot. Later, romance exists between Mi­al. Two sailors Friday and Louisa learns that Michael is chael (Christopher Cazenove) Louisa date turn out to be about to be poisoned. She and Louisa (Margaret Whit­after Michael, while Mi­thwarts the plan of Michael's ton), a divorced couple who chael's date is a KGB assas­assailant, whom the couple co-host a television travel sin in disguise. This constant later finds stabbed to death. show. George (Ernie Sabella) game of true and false iden­This fast-paced, constant en­and Friday (Dinah Lenney) titiE~s becomes quite fun and tanglement of the storyline is produce the show, and Miles entertaining for the viewer. a fine alternative to any of (Kevin Moore), an assistant, the show's competition--espe­is also a show regular. The show adds a touch of cially the now dull "Cosby
The romance (if it can be humor and a great deal of Show." called that) which exists be­zany insanity to its otherwise "A Fine Romance" is a tween the show's hero and dramatic storylines. "A Fine witty new dramedy that will 
Christopher new
heroine develops each week Romance" rekindles the entertain audiences in a fine 
comedy "A Fine Romance," in which the divorced-yet-still-in-love 
as the two find themselves in crazy spirit of old comedy way. ABC has more than a 
couple travel throughout Europe and manage to get Into trouble
new adventures while taping films, such as those of the fine show; it has a fine segments of their show. In Marx Brothers. Witty com-achievement. nearly everywhere they go. 

Barb's latest makes a great valentine 
· TRISHA CHAMBERS paced song in the collection the emotion in her voice when and puts you in a good mood she says, "say you'll share 
assistant accent editor 
as you learn that love must with me one love, one 
B
arbara Streisand's, Till I exist when you see "little lifetime ... that's all I ask of 
Loved You, is the perfect children laughing and playing you." 
album for this time of year, cause they haven't learned to The second side of the al­
particularly for those of you start hating." bum is different from the 
The tempo slows down on first in that it deals with celebrating Valentine's Day 
tomorrow. the next one, "On my Way to losing love, and so has a Fans of this versatile singer You," as Streisand finds her more somber tone. It is also 
won't be disappointed, be­love in this touching song. weaker than the first, be­
The piano accompanies her cause the fe!W hopeful songscause she adds some beauti­
fully written songs to her perfectly as she sings about seem to have elements of the 
repertoire. In fact, some of wanting to "rewrite" the past other songs in them or old 
the lyrics were contributed by and then belts out the chorus, adages, like! "if you love 
"if I had changed a single something, let it go free" inthe phenomenal song-writing 
team of Burt Bacharach and day ... I may have never found "Some Good Things Never 
Carole Bayer Sager. my way to you." Last." 
In the controversial "Till I The best song on the second 
The first side of the album Loved You," Streisand is side has Streisand using her 
is much stronger than the joined by Don Johnson in a commanding stage voice to 
second, because it is more song about hoping for an end sing the sad, yet reassuring 
optimistic as it describes the to their searching. Despite a "Why Let it Go?" The lyrics 
search for true love and the scratchy voice at times, are unique and realistic as 
experience of falling in love. Johnson does a fair job, but it they offer hope: "we may 
Streisand begins with "The is really Streisand who have come too close too fast, 
Places You Find Love," an carries the song as her voice but if we really care, so much 
upbeat, uplifting song which sometimes overpowers his. is there, why let it go?" 
starts the mysterious, The lyrics are romantic and But Streisand does better 
whispering echo from playful, and the light music with the more original and 
"Somewhere" on her Broad­seems easy to dance to. They creative lyrics of the first 
way album. Here, she really enjoy singing it and the side, partic:ularly "You and 
listener can relate to their Me for Always" with its Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson hopeful question, "could the chorus of "remember it's all 
one to save me possibly be there is, remember it's all 
O.ll/1~, '(()IJ'I/E GO\ !NO 
~OJ KNOW, RoSr>.L'(t-1, I'D you?" there was, the answer is right
SIJGGt:SI '(()IJ ADO?T At<\OR£.
SK<JNDS 10 l.lNLOCK "ffiiS 
Perhaps the most beautiful here in our hands." This song 
1XX>R I>M> G\\/'t. ME BKK 
"UMBL£. .A.TIIT\JDE. '(O\l 
song on the album is "All I would have been a more ap­
\<\'( SCIENCE NOTES! 
WCl\llDNT Wt>..t·n A!ff\IUNG 
Ask of You" from the musi­propriate ending song be­
10 HA!fEH Tt> n\E.SE ~ITS. 
l'"r-1rrr--:.,...,!t"\ Ymi.D ~0\l? cal, "Phantom of the Opera." cause of its optimistic tone 
The song has been changed a and originality. 
little to fit her style so that it So if you're wondering what 
is still a moving love song, to buy your valentine, or 
but it is different from the you're a hopeful romantic at 
emotional imploring which heart, Barbra Streisand's 
the Phantom gave it. It is "Till I Loved You" should be 
sung like she is on stage, with the next album in your collec­
appropriate music to match tion. · aescribes the searching for love and, like the songs to come, shares some of her self with the audience. In fact every listener will be able to understand her as she 

• 
page 11 
Monday, February 13, 1989 The Observer 
Voice of Blues dies of cancer 
Associated Press 
Dan Kelly, voice of the St. Louis Blues since 1968 and widely regarded as one of the best hockey announcers in the world, died Friday of cancer. He was 52. 
Kelly left the broadcast booth shortly after an examination for back problems led to the discovery of his illness late last year. His last broadcast was a Blues-Vancouver game Nov. 19. 
Kelly was known for his dis­tinctive call, "He shoots ... he scores," a phrase he actually borrowed from veteran Foster Hewitt. 
He was one of three men honored in December with the 1989 Lester Patrick Award, given annually by the NHL and New York Rangers for out­standing service to hockey in the United States. Kelly will be inducted into the broadcasting wing of the Hockey Hall of Fame in September. 
"I've often said, when Dan Kelly's doing a hockey game, I can shut my eyes, and I can see the game," NHL President John Ziegler said recently. "We have had no greater evangelist, no greater preacher, no greater teacher than Dan Kelly over the past 21 years." 
A profile in Sports Illustrated several years ago said Kelly dominated his sport like no other announcer. 
"There's the stout Irishman, and then there's the rest of the hockey announcing universe," 
said the article, written by 
media critic William Taaffe. 
"Kelly is the purest, most 
knowledgeable, most accurate 
voice around." 
NBC's Bob Costas, speaking at a tribute dinner for Kelly last month, described the Blues an­nouncer as a "colossus" of the sport. 
"Somebody once said that a broadcast of a hockey game, even a good broadcast, just sounds like a three hour-long mistake," Costas said. "There's only one man who can sort it out with such ringing clarity, and that man is Dan Kelly.'' 
Costas called Kelly "singular in his greatness." 
Kelly is survived by his wife, Fran, and six children. His son, John, has bet!n working as a broadcaster for Madison Square Garden Network doing play-by-play for the New York Rangers. 
Kelly began his career in 1955, hosting a country music show and using the handle "Dangerous Dan" for radio station CJET in Smith's Falls, Ontario, a small town about 50 miles from his Ottawa home. His hockey broadcasting career began when he talked CJET management into spon­soring the local amateur hockey team. He eventually moved up to announcing Montreal Canadiens games. 
At his peak, Kelly was in con­stant demand, traveling more than 100,000 miles a year. He worked NHL games for CBS from 1969 to 1972, the USA Net­work from 1981 to 1985 and ESPN from 1985 to 1987. He an­nounced the NHL playoffs in 1987 and 1988 and the Canada Cup Series in 1987 for the Global TV Network. 
Former administrator captures court battle 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, --A Jeffer­son Circuit Court jury has ruled that the University of Louisville did not hold a proper hearing for an asso­ciate athletic director. 
The jury ruled Saturday that the failure to provide a proper hearing occurred before Kenneth A. Lindsey was reassigned and his pay reduced as punishment for involvement in a bonus­payment plan after the 1985 Metro Conference basket­ball tournament. 
The jury deliberated nearly three hours before awarding Lindsey $41,350 in wages lost due to his reas­signment. The jury awarded Lindsey nothing for pain and suffering, although he could have received damages up to $500,000. 
Lindsey sued U of L pres­ident Donald Swain and former Vice President Ed­ward Hammond in October 1986 after he was dis­ciplined. Lindsey said he never ree!fived the proper hearing to which he was en­titled to explain his actions. 
Jefferson Circuit Judge Edwin A. Schroering Jr. ruled that the jury could not consider Lindsey's claims that he was treated more harshly than Athletic Direc­tor Bill Olsen, or that his name and reputation were damaged by Swain and Hammond, now president of Fort Hays State University in Kansas. 
Robert Miller, an attorney for Swain and Hammond, declined to comment on the verdict. 
Thomas H. Lyons, the uni­versity's attorney, called the verdict disappointing. He said that an appeal of the decision is likely and that he did not know who would pay the $41,350 award if the ap­peal is unsuccessful. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The -­charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TyplngWordprocesslng 237-1949 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for 
CASH II Hardbound & paperbacks' Cash 
or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 
808 Howard St. just off ol N.D. 
Ave.(walki11ij distance from campus) ph. 
233-2342 
ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1(U-Repslr). Delinquent tax property. RepoSMsslona. Call 602­838-8885 Ext. GH6262 
SAVE TIME! "How To Report On a Book You Haven't Actually Read." Send $1 0: Box 15071 Columbus, OH 43215 
I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: 30 Macintosh diskettes from my car in C 1 . The importance of those disks cannot be exagerated. $$$ for informa­tion leading to the return of them. Please call# 4936or289-1628. Or if you already have them, please return them to 230 Knott Hall. No questions asked. 
····················································· 
LOST: EYEGLASSES ON SUNDAY BEFORE GAME BETWEEN ALUMNI I ACC. CALL SHANNON 2534. 
LOST A GOLD WATCH IN HAYES HEALY ON MONDAY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 2666. 
WILL THE SCUM WHO TOOK MY COAT FROM THE SUB OFFICE,bet 10&12 mon,PLEASE RETURN MY GLASSES. I CAN'T SEE WO THEM. AT LEAST TURN THEM IN TO LOSTAND FOUND. 
FOUND:PAIR OF CLEAR,AIMMED GLASSES SOMETIME LAST SEMEs­TER NEAR LYONSIMORRISSEY.CALL ERIC AT 4147. IF YOU THINK THESE ARE YOURS, THEY PROBABLY AREII! 
LOST: BLACK AND WHITE TWEED LONG WOOL COAT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KARIN AT 272·9903. (LOST IN MADELEVA CLASSROOM 
LAST WEEK) 
PEARL NECKLACE WITH BROKEN CLASP LOST AT JUNIOR FORMAL PLEASE CALL ANN AT 284-5405. 
LOST I lost my long, blue Aldoffo over-coat at senior bar last Friday night. I've got some­one else's. Min has a name tag in rt. ff you've got my coat and I've got yours, call Scott Spurr 271-0680 and we can exchange them. 
LOST: I lost a gold bracelet that my par­ents gave to me this X-mas somewhere between South Dining Hall and 06. If found, please call Chris x2894. $$$ 
LOST GRAY GLOVE AT CUSHING ON LAST FRIDAY IF HAVE, PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 2132 
LOST: A PAIR OF BURGUNDY GLASSES IN A CASE SOMEWHERE BElWEEN HAGGAR AND 02 P-LOT AT NO OR SOMEWHERE AROUND MCCANDLESS, ITS PARKING LOT, OR THE DINING HALL AT ST. MARY'S. ANY INFO, PLEASE CALL 284-5409 
LOST: A BLACK EELSKIN WALLET THURSDAY NIGHT EITHER IN FRONT OF BRIDGETS OR SOMEWHERE BE­TWEEN D-1 PARKING LOT AND BADIN HALL IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO 329 BADIN OR CALL SHANNON AT 3690. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
······························································ 
FOR RENT 
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK­FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVmES. RESERVE NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. 616-471-5711. 
2 ROOM EFFICIENCY SINGLE PER­SON 288-0955 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 218­291-7153. 
HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D. 683-8889-2n-3097. 
WANTED 
COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire Mts., West. Mass. Good Sal.,room & bd,travel allowance, beautiful modern facility,must love children & be able to teach one of the following: Tennis, W.S.L,Sailing Waterski,Basebaii,Basketbaii,Soccer LaCrosse,Wood,A&C,Rocketry, Photog­raphy,Archery,Pioneering, Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp Winadu,5 Glen La.,Mamaroneck, NY 10543. (914)381-5983 
NO Lsw school students to be reps for Kaplan-SMH Bsr Revl-cour-. Earn free bar review course plus $$'s. Csll 272-4135. Ask for Sue. 
COUNSELORS-Gi~s camp in Maine. Good sal,room & bd.,travel allowance, beautiful modern facility,must love children and be able to teach one of the following:Tennis, W.S.T..Sailing Waterski,Softbaii,Basketball. Soc­cer,LaCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­beck,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp Craft,Gymnastics.Call or write:Camp Vega, Box 1n1 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 (617)934-6536 
ATTENTION-HIRING! Government jobs-your area $17,840-$69,485. Call 1­602-838-688 Ext. R6262 
GOVERNMENT JOBS! NOW HIRING THIS AREA! $10,213 TO $75,4T3. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315­733-6062 EXT. F-2382H. 
Workers needed to run SUB movies 
$25 for 4 hours work 4 nights a month on Thurs., Fri., Sat. from 8-12 pm Call239-7757 ask for Maria 
MANPOWER NEEDED 6-9 PM MON­FRI. $StiR. PLUS PRODUCTION BONUSES. CALL 3-5 PM 616-683­8191. 
NEED EXTRA INCOME? Find out about our Remarkable Residual Income Opper· tunityl US SPRINT provides the best value long distance ser-vice in America ... because it's the ONLY wholly-owned nationwide 100% FIBER OPTIC Net­work. Become an Independent Marketing Rep for Network 2000 TODAY! 219'234­5723 
FOR SALE 
ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mer­cedes Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 602-838-8885 ext. A6262 
SYNTHESIZER,YAMAHA DX7 ditigal­full midi call Greg 234-6355 
CONTINENTAL BUMP-ANYWHERE IN 
U.S.A cheap call steve x283-1079 
round trip plane ti~k~i--·;,:;~;~;;···4:·;2 O'Haref'alm Srings $368 Jane X1810 
TICKETS ·l 
NEED HOUSTON TIX PREF. LOWER ARENA 272-7690 NTS,237-2920 DYS 
PERSONALS 
LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review early. Kapllln-SMH reviews to many states evallable here In South Bend. Transfer back home for summer. Dis­count• for Keplan LSAT alumni. Reserve before March 2 Call 272-4135. Ask for Sue. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-63T3 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spend 7ntddaya at Spring Break'a HOT­TEST resort, The Clarendon Plaza home of Penrod'a/The Plantation Club and the largest pool deck ON THE BEACH! $195 per peraon limited space. Cell today Breakaway Tours 1­
1100-444-7384. 
BRIGHTEN YOUR LIFEII MEET THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL THROUGH OUR SINGLES CLUB. INTRO SINGLES CLUB, BOX 3006, BOSTON, MA 02130. 
JUNIORS-JPW WEEKEND REGISTRA­TION is February 13-14, from 2-10pm in the Sorin Room of Lafortune. You must bring an ID for each person that you reg· ister. 
hlag 
RIGHT TO LIFE RIGHT TO LIFE WOMEN'S CARE CENTER PHONE-A­THON FEB. 6-9 I 13-16 2ND FLOOR ADMIN BLD, 6:30-9:30 GIVE LIFE A FIGHTING CHANCE ALL VOLUNTEERS WELCOME 
OVERSEAS JOBS.S91J0.2000 mo. Summer,Yr.round.AII Countrtes,AII fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04, Corone Del Mer, CA 92625. 
································································ 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-4100-343-11373 
VALENTINE'S DAY AT IRISH GAR­DENS MON-SAT 12:30-5:30 BAL­LOONS & FLOWERS NOOMC CAMPUS DELIVERY MOVISA 
Sl SWIMSUIT ISSUES-FREE with a $100 Valentine's Day Purchase at IRISH GARDENS 
FREE KEVIN COSTNER POSTERS with a $100 Valentine's Day Purchase at IRISH GARDENS 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD IN­FORMATION MEETING WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 15 7:00PM MEMORIAL LI­BRARY AUDITORIUM BE THERE!! 
Thanks, Paul!!! TK&PG 
······································· 
Take Time For Prayer ,F4Wed., Feb. 15, 6-11 p.m. In a mlnl-retrea for wo­men at 1104 N. Notre Dame Ave (4 blks. south of the circle.) A light meal will be Included. Donations accepted. For more Information contact Sr. Ar­lene Knlola at 288-2665. 
BALLOONS BALLOONS 
VALENTINE SPECIAL $20 
CAN'T AFFORD ROSES? A SCENTED 
BALLOON BOUQUET IS THE AN­
SWER 258-5133 OR 258-5115 
FOR FREE DELIVERY OR PICK UP AT 
513 E. MCKINLEY, MISHAWAKA. WE 
ALSO FEATURE MUGS I BASKETS 
WITH EITHER HERSHEY KISSES OR 
TEDDY BEARS. 
PREPARING FOR SECOND INTER­VIEWS PLANNING FOR THE OFFICE VISfTA'LANT TRIP. A PRESENTATION GIVEN BY MARILYN BURY, ASSis­TANT DIRECTOR, CAREER I PLACE· MENT. HESBURGH LIBRARY LOUNGE, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13 AT 6:30P.M. WILL BE REPEATED ON WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15 AT 6:30 P.M. 
PREPARING FOR SECOND INTER­VIEWS PLANNING FOR THE OFFICE VISITA'LANT TRIP. A PRESENTATION GIVEN BY MARILYN BURY, ASSis­TANT DIRECTOR, CAREER I PLACE­MENT. HESBURGH LIBRARY 
LOUNGE, TODAY AT 6:30P.M. WILL BE REPEATED ON WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15 AT 6:30P.M. 
SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES The DATING GAME is coming! 
..DESPERATE!! Need ride to NEW OR­LEANS or vicinity. 314-312. Will share $$.call Tania x1302 
CANCUN TRIP-SPRING BREAK s• beach front hotel-tound trip flight. spot left for gi~-$459 call Allison X1268 
ANTOSTAL ANTOSTAL ANTOSTAL GENERAL MEETING ! MONDAY FEB 13 9:00 HESBURG LIB AUD 
M.P.-THE WILD THING YOU'RE AN UNFAITHFUL LYING JUDAS , I think I...No. You deserve the man you're gonna marry. Nobody told me you were a demon from hell. How does it feel to be some­body's possession ? -FUBAR-1 
SKIP!!!! HOW WAS THE WILD WEEKEND?? 
MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL UPDATE REPS:Get moving on producing the film which could win fame and $ for your dorm. Some dorms have already finished! ........................................................... MIKE PIERRE HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! 
-s.s. 
Katie and Daniellel Did you leave your window open?! love ya, your roomies 
I need a ride to St. Louis this weekend (17th). I will share expenses and driving. Please call Jennifer X2982 .....................................................L ....... 
JUNIORS 
WE NEED A SENIOR FORMAL 
CHAIRPERSON 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT CLASS OFFICE 1-3PM DUE ON WED. 
JUNIORS FORMAL PROOFS ARE HERE COME SEE YOUR MUG SHOTS AND PLACE ORDERS AT THE CLASS OFFICE THIS WEEK 1-3PM 
MIKE HARAZIN My sweater was red Your shirt wh~e & blue Standing on the couch at Ranner Is when I first saw you At second glance my interest peaked And now it is your attention I seek So Hyou were curious when you saw 
me last Thurs. night Respond here & you'll get a SYR INVITE!!! 
Blond Guy W'glaSMa­1st, you DO NOTknow who lam; we've never met. And 2nd, be at the exact seme spot alone where I uw you In Dec. In the NOH tomorrow noon. I'll find you. Expectantly yours, M 
................................................................ 
LEANNE I SHEILA 
GREETINGS FROM L.A. 
BRIDGET McCARTHY Don't forget you've only got 62 days! 
CAPT. STEROID, ANGELA THINKS THE BEST WAY TO WARM UP THE JET ON A COOL EVE­NING IN SOUTH BEND IS VIA H.B.I.D.S. 
Greg V. of HC How was the big SYR? What lima did ~ really happen at? 3rd floor Badin wants to know! 
Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou amoung women and blessed is the frurt of thy womb Jesus. Holy Mary mother of God pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death amen. Thanks 
HEH GREG GUFFEY! Thanks for the valentine Gut!. You saved me from the great Observer copy editing abyss. 
-HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! Molly 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY PHILI Thanks for being • bright apot In my hectic schedule. You always know how to make me smile, 
Molly 
ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new~ born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Unda and Craig COLLECT: 212-8n­3574 
Keny and Bridget-Sat. wae a-ome. I spent mora time drinking the river. But then, maybe that was my fete. Thanks, • 
Andy 
MAMITW I LOVE YOU Ill TMILWITW 
sP.FiiN·G-iiR.EAi<sPFiiN·G·iiR·E.:\-.<5j;'fiiN'C. 
CANCUN -6" hotel on the beach, and much more. 6 spaces lett. call John x1694. 
SPRINGBREAKSPRINGBREAKSPRING 
Monica, 
Who was that guide-townie in your room Saturday night? Why was he taking off his clothes? Couldn't you have peid him to stop? Hope your birthday was a happy one! 
Monica, Hope your 22nd birlhday was happy and full of 6urprisesll We love you! 
,....._________""'_._
____,__w_..o..---·~-~~--~~---------------.-~-~------·-----------~~-.._--~-~~~-

LaPhonso Ellis scores the final two points during Notre Dame's 83-74 win over USC Saturday afternoon. Ellis scored eight points as the Irish Improved to 14-4. 
The Observer Monday, February 13, 1989 
Injuries doom NO track team in 63rd Central Collegiiates 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
The men's indoor track team hobbled onto the Meyo Track in the Loftus All-Sports Center this weekend only to be outdone by its competition in the Central Collegiate Track Championships. 
The Irish, plagued by injur­ies and lack of depth, finished 15th out of 22 teams in the 63rd annual meet, accumulating 
15.5 points. Illinois emerged the winner, gathering 120.5 points. 
"The kids competed well," said Irish coach Joe Piane, "but I don't think people realize how great that meet was. It was really an excellent meet." 
The caliber of the atheletes attending the Central Col­legiates was certainly impres­sive, and the combination of · this fact and Notre Dame's in­juries kept the Irish out of con­tention for the top spots. 
"I'd say Illinois was awfully good, but we had the flu, sick­ness and injury to fight against," said Piane. "Natural disasters hit us." 
Several players were unable to compete. Co-captain Jan Searcy, despite qualifying for · the IC4A (Intercollegiate Asso­ciation of Amateur Atheletes of America) outdoor champion­ships in the 500 meters in a pre­liminary heat, had to be scratched from the final run be­cause of a sore leg. 
Fifth-year senior and All­American Dan Garrett was un­able to compete because of ten­donitis in his foot. 
Freshman sprinter Rusty Setzer did not run because of a bout with the flu. 
Despite InJUries, several Irish times were right on the mark, with several qualifiers to the IC4A's. ' 
Notre Dame gained 10 of its points when freshman Raghib "Rocket" Ismail made good his name and propelled past the competition in the 55-meter dash, crossing the finish line in 
6.29 seconds. 
Despite the fact that Rusty Setzer, the second part of Notre Dame's freshman 55-meter dynamic duo, was out with the flu, Ismail did not try to over­compensate for his teammate. 
"I don't try to make any meet bigger than it is," said Ismail. "I just wanted to concentrate on my race and run the best I could." 
Ismail's 6.29-second clocking missed qualifying for the NCAA Championships by 0.06 seconds, but in the future he hopes his time will drop. 
"Hopefully I can make it (his time) drop," said Ismail. "I really )lave to work on getting out of the blocks quickly. When I get involved in really good competition I expect the times to drop." 
Senior co-captain Ron Markezich, competing in his first meet of the season, cap­tured two points for the Irish in. the 5000-meter finals by finishing fifth in 14:24.68, which qualified him to the IC4A's. 
In the 1000 meters, junior Marik: Lavery and senior Dave Warth finished fifth and sixth respectively, combining for thre1e points. These two also qualified for the IC4A's. 
Rounding out the scoring for the lrish was high jumper John Cole, who cleared the 6-foot, 8 314 inch marker, good enough for a tie for sixth. 
Other qualifiers for the IC4A's were Richard Culp in the soo meters, Tom O'Rourke in the 5000, Ismail in the 55 meters, and the Distance Med­ley Relay squad (Richard Culp, Brian Peppard, Mike Rogan and Ryan Cahill). 
Piane liked what he saw, but there just wasn't enough of it. 
"I"m obviously disap­poin1ted," said Piane, "but it's not the end of the world." 
Bennett 
continued from page 20 
"That three point shot was 
incredible," noted Phelps. 
"Since he made the move to 
second guard Elmer has shown 
nothing but confidence." 
Bennett, previously consid­
ered a steady backup to Irish 
point guard Tim Singleton, 
made the smooth transition to the shooting guard and found himself on the floor at the same time as Singleton rather than waiting to substitute for him. 
"Playing alongside Tim makes me a lot more comfort­able out there," said Bennett. "And my shots were falling--it felt good out there today." 
And it felt good for Irish fans who knew that Bennett would be a weapon in Notre Dame's arsenal for three more years. 
Soviet regains record in pole vault 
Associated Press record-holder at 19-lOlh and the 
two-time world outdoor cham­
OSAKA, Japan--Sergei pion, bettered the previous Bubka of the Soviet Union world indoor record of 19-9 set regained the world indoor pole by compatriot Rodion Gataul­vault record Saturday, then lin Feb. 4 at Gomel, U.S.S.R. failed three times at clearing "Today's performance was 20 feet in the Yomiuri-Chitose not so good technically, but my indoor track and field meet. physical condition was good," 
Bubka, using the same pole Bubka said. "I also like this as the one he used in winning arena." the gold medal at the 1988 Seoul Although Bubka came up Olympics, soared 19-9lh on his short in his attempt to clear the third and final attempt before 20-foot barrier, he said, "If all approximately 11,000 fans at conditions are fit for me, it will Castle Hall. be possible to clear 6.20 meters 
Bubka, the world outdoor (20-4% this season). I did it during training." 
American Tim Bright finished second, clearing 18­8%. 
Other men's winners in­
cluded Americans Joe DeLoach 
in the 60-meter dash, Danny 
Everett in the 400 meters, Mike 
Powell in the long jump and 
Williie Banks in the triple jump, 
and :Sweden's Patrik Sjoberg in 
the high jump. 
Women's winners included American Evelyn Ashford in the 60 and Tamara Bykova of the Soviet Union in the high jump. 
usc 
continued from page 20 
with me on my free throws,'' 
said Fredrick, who entered the game shooting 66 percent from the stripe. "But I'm an up­perclassman now. I'm sup­posed to be providing leader­ship. At the end of the game, I want to be shooting free throws." 
two with 3:55 left. Moore hit for six in that streak, but he also failed to convert a three-point play when Southern Cal could have closed to one. 
"Maybe we're playing as well as we're capable of," Raveling said. "Maybe we're kidding ourselves that we haven't reached capabilities yet. It's another carbon copy." 
While an upperclassman sealed the win, two freshmen 
Remember These? 
played a vital roles. Daimon Sweet started in place of an in­
·So PadrE 
Vailjured Jamere Jackson and 
scored six points in 28 minutes. Elmer Bennet had a career­high 19 coming off the bench. Bennet hit for six points in a 10-0 Irish spree in the first half. At one point the freshman from Houston hit nine-straight at­tempts from the floor. 
Chris Moore led Southern Cal with 23 points, while Anthony Pendleton had 20. 
"This was a carbon copy of our previous games," said USC head coach George Raveling. 
Get Involved In These! 
"We're like a salesman. We make a great presentation but can't close the sale. The guys give as much as they have but don't make a right decision at a key point or miss a foul shot at a key time. 
"We would make a run and they would shut it down. Some 
~;.,\:..~ " 
of the shots they were taking 
~,.,e.~~ ~ 
were good from a a coaching 
esl> . " ~ ,;oN} April23·30standpoint, but they kept -,:e.'!\ I 11\ \0 \l\0 . 
J>.'Oil> ' X\$\~c\e < s~
knocking them down from out­a1{\ c a.i>,~,o s . 
• "' '10!\ v
side." 
~\sv~ 1:)~()1.19 ..~ 
The Trojans made their most '\ '\ll' ~ 
threatening run with just over ~~ Organizational Meeting Wednesday Feb 15. 6:30 prn. five minutes to play. Trailing SUB office, 2nd Floor LaFortune -All interested please attend 70-61, the men of Troy went on a 7-0 scoring streak to close to 
Monday, February 13, 1989 The Observer page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Sluggish Lendl bests Gilbert 
A squash film dealing with the fundamentals of the game will be shown Wednesday at 6:30p.m. at the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC. For more information, please call Bill Murray at x3211. -The Observer 
The NO Squash Club is seeking students to help organize the club for the upcoming year. Please call Bill Murray at x3211 for information. -The Observer 
Off-Campus hockey has a game tonight at 11:45 against Morrissey. All those who have not paid their $5, please bring it. Those who can not make it to the game should call 289-1124. -The Observer 
The SMC-ND women's lacrosse club is looking for a volunteer coach. Anyone interested or wanting more information should call Kathryn Benz at 284-5482. -The Observer 
The SMC-ND women's lacrosse club meeting will be tonight at 6:30 at Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone interested in joining should attend. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-Ivan Lendl sur­vived a rocky start and a close finish, outlasting Brad Gilbert in a baseline battle Sunday to claim a 6-2,7-6 (7-3) victory and the championship of the $350,000 Volvo tennis tourna­ment. 
The world's top-ranked player came in against Gilbert after staving off two match points in a late Saturday night semifinal victory over defend­ing champion Tim Mayotte, and looked lethargic in the early going. 
Fortunately for Lendl, the 20th-ranked Gilbert wasn't much sharper, although he had an easier semifinal match against Horacio de la Pena. 
Gilbert lost his opening ser­vice Sunday despite delivering two of his five aces and one of 15 service winners he collected on the day. 
Lendl gave the break back in the next game, but Gilbert lost the last four points on his next service-three on unforced errors--and Lendl quickly turned the 2-1 advantage into a decisive 5-2 edge with another break in the seventh game. 
He served for the set and won it with a backhand passing shot that was typical of his domi­nant ground strokes at that juncture of the match. 
And when Lendl broke Gil­bert in the opening game of the second set, he appeared on the fast track toward the $60,000 first-place prize. 
But Gilbert, who came into the match having lost all14 pre­vious meetings against the Czech, broke back on Lendl's second serve of the set, held his serve after winning an ex­change of volleys at the net, and again broke Lendl in the sixth game for a 4-2 lead. 
It turned out to be short­lived. Lendl capitalized on three unforced errors by Gil­bert in the next game, drew even at 4-4, and held on as the match stayed on service into the tie-breaker. 
Then, Lendl won the first three points, rolled quickly to a 6-3 advantage, before win­ning the match with a cleverly disguised half-volley of the forehand side. 
Gilbert received $25,000. 
Simons deny rumor to sell Pacers 

Associated Press "I came into this thing with­
out a great desire to be an 
HOUSTON-Despite the In-owner, but I've learned to injoy diana Pacers' 11-35 record, it through the ups and downs. owners Mel and Herb Simon It's important for the city to say they have no plans to sell have a team, and I still have a the NBA franchise or replace bug to see the team get better has done has been with sound logic. I have no problem with the job he's done." 
Still, he admitted, "It's get­ting discouraging to lose, but I'm still optimistic about the team's potential. We're going 
General Manager Donnie and win a championship," to do something. I don't know Walsh. Simon said. what, but we will do something. 
"There really has been no He said he supports Walsh. "I think you always have to thought to sell," Herb Simon, "If Donnie's job is in consider a trade if you have a in Houston for Sunday's NBA jeopardy, then my job is in chance to better your team. To all-Star game, told the In-jeopardy," Simon said. "He's trade for the sake of trading I 
-.t*:CENTURY 
diana polis Star. been open and everything he ~on't think is a good idea." 
~==~r=H=E~A~RM:Y~C~A~N==~
-.•cOMPANIES 
destroyed by his opponent
HELP YOU GET 
when he lost on a technical fall. 
Indiana
WIOF AMERIC~M 
"Layton never would have
A $25,200 EDGE 
continued from page 20 
given up a technical fall to this 
ON COLLEGE. ' 
bronchitis, squeaked by with a. kid if he had been healthy,"
The Army can help you get an edge on life and earn up to $25,200 for 
3-2 win in a match that came said McCann. "I knew the 
college through the Montgomery Gl 
down to the very end. match would be won by the
CENTURY COMPANIES OF. AMERICA 
Bill Plus the Army College Fund. 
Gowens won his 20th match team that had more bonus 
Here's how it works. You contribute 
of the season 4-2 over Louis Sil­points."
$100 a month for the first year from
FINANCIAL SERVICES 
verman. The victory improved Indiana accumulated more 
your $630-plus monthly starting 
his dual meet record to 6-4. bonus points then Notre Dame. 
salary. The government then contri­
A Career in Sales 
Senior co-captain Jerry Durso McCann felt that if his lighter
butes its share, $9,600 from the 
(9-1, 28-4) also won a close wrestlers were healthy, they
Montgomery Gl Bill plus $14,400 
from the Army College Fund for a 
match 4-3. Durso is the all-time would have grabbed those es­
"OPEN INFORMATION MEETING" 
four-year enlistment 
career leader in wins and is a sential bonus points. "We've 
Army opportunities get better every 
favorite to qualify for the got to hand it to them," said
day. If you qualify, you could train in one of over 250 challenging and 
1 Hour 
NCAA tournament. Senior Pat McCann. "They just wanted to 
Boyd (4-1, 17-3) won the 142-win more then we did."
rewarding high-tech skills.
Monday, February 13th, 7 Pm 
It makes sense to earn while you 
pound match with relative ease In the next two matches, 
learn. For more information about 
8-2, while also suffering from Mark Gerardi and Todd 
getting money for college, call your 
bronchitis. Tomazic both lost by large
Room 113 -O'Saughnessy Hall 
Army Recruiter today. 
At this point, Notre Dame amounts, 12-4 and 10-3 respec­
SGT Robert Hackley 
was in command 12-0. Then the tively. This tied up the team 
234-4187 
Irish fell apart, losing five of score at 12-12. At 177 pounds,
ARMY. 
the next six matches. Chris Geneser (9-1, 26-5) won
ALL ARE WELCOME 
Todd Layton, another victim easily 14-2 in a match that was of bronchitis, was being a blowout from the start. This victory was the last for the 
. Irish. 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
With the score 16-12, all the pressure was on the final two matches of the night. Both of them ended up in favor of the Hoosiers. At 190-pounds, Curt Engler lost a close 2-1 decision while Heavyweight Chuck
EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
Weaver lost 5-1. The two losses gave Indiana six points and an upset victory at Notre Dame. 
The bronchitis situation will
A PROGRAM ARRANGED BY 
be taken an a day by day basis. A few of the wrestlers will be held out of practice until they
DEAN ANTHONY N. MICHEL AND THE DEPARTMENTS OF 
recover. The next few matches will be vital for Notre Dame as
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
they prepare for the Western Regional and the NCAA Tourn­ament. 
"All our guys should be ready for the final few matches,"
6:30 P.M., MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1989 
stated McCann. "The bronchitis deal will only last a
ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 
few more days and it should not effect our effort in the final matches." 
IAMERICAN 
f~.
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
page 14 The Observer Monday, February 13, 1989 
Deadline approaches for Sanders' decision 
Associated Press 
NEW HAVEN, Conn--This is Barry Sanders' dilemma­-take the NFL's money and run or take his Heisman Trophy and try for two. 
"I have a lot to gain by coming back; I have a lot to gain if I leave,'' Sanders said Saturday when asked if he will return to Oklahoma State for his senior year. "It's a situation where both sides look good." 
The All-American running back said while he pondered the options, his family was exploring the legal avenues he could take to become el­igible for the NFL draft. 
Sanders, having already collected the Heisman Trophy and the Maxwell Award, was honored as Player of the Year at the Walter Camp Football Foun­dation's annual banquet. 
Reports about his plans have been even more numerous than his awards. 
After setting NCAA records last fall by rushing for 2,628 yards and scoring 39 touchdowns, Sanders in­dicated he would be back in 1989. 
Last weekend, the Dallas Morning News reported that Sanders had told an NFL team he intended to turn pro. Then he told The Associated Press he had made a deci­sion but declined to say what it was. 
Next, he was quoted in the Wichita Eagle-Beacon, his hometown newspaper, as saying he planned to return to Oklahoma State. On Tues­day, when he received the Maxwell Trophy in Philadel­phia, he waffled on his plans. 
"Basically, I've stuck to the same story," Sanders said Saturdaay. "First I said I was staying, and the only other thing I've said is I'm weighing my options--if I wanted to leave, I might think about it if the opportu­nity was there." 
Oklahoma State begins spring practice on Feb. 27 and Sanders plans to be there. 
The NFL says he has until April10 to apply for the April 23-24 draft. Since he is a true junior who has never been redshirted, he would need special permission to ent~r either the regular draft or the summer supplemental draft. 
If the NFL turns him down, his other option would be in the courts and Sanders said his family has been "in­vestigating the legal aspects--what I'd have to go through. 
"At first, we were under the impression that I'd have to sign with an agent to be­come ineligible for thf: NCAA and that would make me automatically eligibie for the draft. A few days ago (my father) said he's not sure that's the case." 
Sanders hasn't lacked for advice. His father, William, and brother, Byron, a run­ning back at Northwestern who has declared for the draft as a fourth-year junior), want him to turn pro. His mother, Shirley, would prefer that he stay in school. Either way, it will be Sanders' decision. 
GMAT 
Directions: For the following question. select the best 
answer choice provided. 
1. Only if we know human nature can we know the na­ture of the true good for human beings. And only if we know the nature of the true good for human beings can we arrive at an idea of the truly just society. Thus, if we know human nature and the na­ture. of the good for human beings, we can arrive at an idea of the truly just society. 
Which of the following points out a potential flaw in the reasoning above? 
(A) 
What one human being thinks is good might well be something that another human being thinks is not good. 

(B) 
Many people have arrived at ideas of the just soci­ety, and all of them have been slightly different. 

(C) 
It is quite possible to know human nature without in any way being able to know what is the good for human beings. 

(D) 
Philosophers have argued for centuries over what specifically defines human nature, without coming to a general agreement. 

(E) 
Arriving at an idea of the just society may re­quire more than knowledge of human nature and knowledge of the good for human beings. 


IF YOU THINK THIS YEAR'S NEW GMAT SECTION IS EASY, TRY READING THIS. 
Go ahead. Try it impossible, new section. By anticipat-
Not so easy, huh? Especially when ing and teaching all the changes all you realize just how much is at stake the tim~. . when you're taking yourGMAT. Which means, If you had to !ookfor 
That's why you need Stanley the correct answer to the question at 
H. Kaplan. Only we offer li KAPLAN ~e bottom of the pa~e, i~'s aprepcoursethathelps cA time you began looking mto you prepare for this year's STAIIIIY H.IAPLAMEDUU1101W a11111 LTD. Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Questioa developed by Stanley H. K.ap!IID Educaliooal CcDter Ltd 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135 
Michigan takes pair from ND 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team dropped two games to Michigan this weekend, but it came away with a moral vic­tory in the process. 
The Irish (9-25-2) entered the home-and-away series with the lOth-ranked Wolverines (19-11­
4) intent on determining how they matched up against one of the finest teams in the country. They came out of the two-game series with a pair of losses, a great deal of respect for Mic­higan and the satisfaction of a job well done. 
"We played about as well as we can against a very powerful team," said Irish coach Ric Schafer following Friday night's 6-2 loss to the Wol­verines. "Look for them in the national tournament this year." 
Michigan controlled the puck for much of the first period Friday night but didn't break into the scoring column until the 15:56 mark, when defen­seman Alex Roberts scored from the left face-off circle. Left wing Ryan Pardoski doubled the Wolverine lead just over two minutes later when he redirected Ted Kramer's shot past Irish goalie Lance Mad­son. 
Michigan extended its lead to 5-0 in the second stanza, once again waiting until the 15­minute mark before unleash­ing a flurry of shots on Madson. Ted Kramer, Mike Moes and Denny Felsner scored for the Wolverines in the period. 
Notre Dame could easily have packed their bags and left the Joyce ACC, but the Irish showed character in coming back to score two quick goals at the beginning of the third period. 
Kevin Patrick split two Mic­higan defensemen and flipped a backhanded shot over the shoulder of Wolverine goalie Tim Keough five minutes and 34 seconds into the third period. Just 24 seconds later, Bill Hoel­zel scored on yet another back­handed shot as he was dragged to the ice by a Michigan defen­seman. 
"That (the two goals) gave them life, and they played well in the third period," said Wol­verine coach Red Berenson of Notre Dame's modest third­period comeback. "I'll give them credit, they didn't quit, they hung in there and they played hard even though they were down five goals. The game picked up at that point." 
Wolverine center Rob Brown closed out the scoring with a power-play goal with just over 10 minutes remaining in the contest. 
The series, coming one week after Notre Dame's physical battle against Michigan­Dearborn, was one of the cleanest in recent memory. Both coaches agreed they would like to see more of the type of play prevalent this weekend in the future. 
"It was a clean hockey 
"It was the cleanest series we've been in, with both teams keeping their heads and sticks down," reiterated Berenson. 
The outcome of Saturday's 5­2 Irish loss remained in doubt for much of the first two peri­ods, as Notre Dame answered each Michigan goal with one of its own. 
Kramer started the scoring for the Wolverines at 1:31 of the first period, but Irish left wing Matt Hanzel tied the game 14 minutes later. Mike Helber then seored at the 18: 11 mark to giv1~ Michigan a 2-1 lead going into the first intermis­sion. 
Don Stone added to the Mic­higan lead five minutes into the second. period before Irish defenseman Kevin Markovitz brought Notre Dame back once again. The 3-2 deficit was as close as the Irish would get, however, as Michigan netted the last two goals of the game. 
Schafer credited the play of the defense, which has been suspect at best throughout much of the season. The same defense that gave up over 60 shots in games against Mer­rimaclk: and Air Force earlier this season held Michigan's ex­plosive offensive attack to only 29 shots on goal Saturday night. 
"I think we really minimized our mistakes," said Schafer. "By and large, I thought we did a good job of moving the puck 

game," said Schafer. "The out of our zone, not holding on game took about two hours, to it too long, not taking it back which is phenomenal. I don't into our zone and behind our like losing, but I'd play a team own goal. ?Je just made the 
-------~~----------------~-----~-----­
Monday, February 13, 1989 The Observer page 15 
First half propels West to NBA All-Star victory 
Teammates key victory 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON--Playing without 
the real Magic, Karl Malone 
and John Stockton created 
some magic of their own Sun­
day, carrying the West to a 143­
134 victory over the East in the 
NBA all-Star Game. 
Stockton, the only point 
guard on the West team after 
scheduled starter Magic 
Johnson was injured on Wed­
neday night, directed a record­
breaking attack in the first 
half, wowing a record All-Star 
crowd at the Astrodome. 
The West led by as many as 
31 points en route to an 87-59 
halftime lead, breaking by one 
the All-Star record for points in 
a half set by the West in 1962. 
The East got as close as seven 
in the fourth quarter before fal­
tering. 
Stockton had an All-Star 
record nine assists in the first 
quarter, breaking Johnson's 
1984 mark of eight, although he 
didn't play the last 3:18. 
Malone, Stockton's Utah Jazz 
teammate, scored 18 of his 28 
points in the first half and was 
8-for-9 from the field in the first 
two periods, most of them on 
dunks or feathery layups. 
Malone was selected the 
game's Most Valuable Player. 
Dale Ellis scored 27 points 
and Alex English 16 for for the 
West. Stockton finished with 11 
points and 17 assists. 
Michael Jordan scored 12 of 
his 28 points in the fourth quar­
ter to lead the East, which still 
leads the All-Star series 25-14. 
The East had won seven of the 
previous nine games. Isiah 
Thomas added 19 points and 14 
assists for the East. 
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar in his 

Utah's John Stockton helped the West to a victory 
crowds ever, edged only by the Sllverdome In 
over the East In the NBA All-Star Game Sunday 
Pontiac, Michigan. 
In Houston's Astrodome. It was one of the largest 
20th and last season, appeared in his 18th All-Star Game, mis­sing his first five shots and scoring four points. He set the career All-Star scoring record last year. 
The attendance of 44,735 broke the All-Star record of 43,146 at the Indianapolis Hoosier Dome in 1985. It was the largest NBA crowd ever away from the Pontiac Silver-dome, which has the four larg­est ever. 
The West broke away from a 12-12 tie by outscoring the East 35-19 in the last 8: 14 of the first period. 
The spurt started with a 13-2 run durin which Malone 
.IKAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL C£NT£R LTD. 
KAPLAN OFFERS YOU CONTINUOUS NCLEX REVIEW RIGHT HERE IN SOUTH BEND! OURS IS NOT A WEEK-END CRAM COURSE. YOU CAN THOROUGHLY PREPARE TO DO YOUR BEST. DON'T TAKE A CHANCE ON YOUR FUTURE. CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION OR STOP BY FOR A FREE LESSON. 
**** 
KAPLAN TEST PREP CENTER 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
219/272-4135 
NCLEX-RN CGFNS 
Licensure Preparation 
scored six consecutive points and Ellis five. 
With Stockton out, the West offense hardly slowed down. Chris Mullin, a 6-foot-7 for­ward, took over at point guard, but got help bringing the ball upcourt from 6-10 Tom Cham­bers, who scored 12 points in 
5: 14, helping the West increase its margin to 57-33 with 8: 44left in the first half. 
Only the outside shooting of Ellis and English, who had 10 points in the first quarter, kept the game from being a com­plete fastbreak, slam-dunk fest for the West. 
While the West was blowing by them, the East players couldn't get in synch. Their most memorable play was on a botched alley-oop bounce pass by Thomas in the first quarter. 
With the East missing 10 of 14 free throws in the second period, the West expanded its lead to 76-45 before settling for a 28-point halftime bulge. 
The East rallied in the third period as Thomas directed the offense and scored eight points himself. 
The West saw the East nar­row the margin to 109-96late in the third period on a dunk by Moses Malone, finishing off an 11-0 run. 
The West scored six consecu­tive points after that for a 115­96 advantage, but the East responded with a 20-8 run, making its deficit only 123-116 with 5: 56 left. 
Ellis then scored five points and Malone four in less than a minute's time to put the game out of reach. 
STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN 
Several colleges of Oxford University have Invited The Washington International Studies Center to recommend quallfled students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower status Is requiN'd. and grao.Juatr study Is avallable. Students are directly enrolled In thPh· mil'""'"" I and receive traJlscl1pt• from Htclr Oxford college: this Is NOTa program conducted by a U.S. lege In Oxford. A Spt'•:Jal sum;ner session is directed by WlSC. 
INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON 
WISC offers summer Internships with Congress. with the White House. with the media and with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by senior-level government officials. who are also scholars, and by experienced journalists. Similar opportunities In public policy internships are offered (with academic credit) In London (Fall. Spring and Summer) 
The Wuhington IDterD&tlonalStadlee Center 214 Massachusetts Ave.. N.E. Suite 230 Washington. D.C. 20002 (202)547·3275 
Wi'ISC 

Jabbar nails hook in finale 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON --With 14 seconds left in his last NBA all-Star Game, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar finally hit a sky hook. 
A beautiful shot that he made so simple for two decades took painfully long to make in his final All-Star appearance. 
Mter missing five sky hooks in the game, he made his sixth to score the West's final field goal and cement a 143-134 vic­tory over the East. 
A last-minute replacement for Los Angeles Laker team­mate Magic Johnson, Abdul­Jabbar played on Sunday like he's played much of this season--only too aware his time has past. 
"I would have been disap­pointed if it hadn't dropped," he said. "I wanted to get a field goal." 
At the start of the game, Abdul-Jabbar responded to a deafening ovation from the crowd with both index fingers thrust high, but his four-point contribution will not be remem­bered. 
Abdul-Jabbar went 0-for-4 from the field before hitting a pair of free throws with two seconds left in the third quar­ter. 
With a towel wrapped around his neck, he sat until the final two minutes of the game, when West coach Pat Riley asked if he wanted one last change to score from the field. 
"I wanted to see that last sky hook in an All-Star e:ame e:o in, and it did," said Riley, who has seen his legendary player suf­fer through a trying final pro season in which he has averaged less than 10 points per game. 
NBA crowns new champs
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -With perennial champions Larry Bird and Mi­chael Jordan sidelined by in­jury, two new champions and one old favorite dominated the NBAs glitz and glamor events on Saturday. 
Dale Ellis won the 3-point shootout and Kenny "Sky" Walker the slam-dunk contest. Earlier, former Houston star Calvin Murphy electrified the crowd in the Legends game. 
Walker, who stayed in the slam-dunk event despite the death of his father three days before, took advantage of the absence of past champions Jor­dan, Dominique Wilkins and Larry Nance. 
Ellis, the runner-up when Bird won the 3-point contest for the third straight time in 1988, had a final-round score that would have beaten the injured Boston Celtics star a year ago in Chicago. 
Ellis said Bird's absence had an effect on the 3-point compe­tition. 
"You've got to expect the defending champion to win again after three years in a row," Ellis said. "I felt my chances to win were good with him not here." 
Ellis was a model of consis­tency, scoring 19, 18 and 19 points, respectively, in the three rounds. 
-~ -------~-~~---~--~---­-Monday, February 13, 1989age 16pTrenary winsEdwards lifts IU sk:ating title Special to The Observer over Boilermakers Associated Press Favored Jill Trenary won the Big Ten atandlnga United States women's figureCont. OverallBLOOMINGTON--Indiana Team record record skating championship Satur­1. Indiana 10-1coach Bob Knight called it one 20-5 day at Baltimore, but Kristi 2. Illinois 7-3 20-3of the best shots he'd ever seen 3. Michigan 6-4 18-5 Yamaguchi stamped herself as 4. Ohio State 6-4 17-6under the circumstances. the star of the future. 5. Minnesota 6-5 14-7Jay Edwards said it simply 6. Iowa 5-5 17-6 Yamaguchi, who combined 7. Wisconsin 5-6 13-7felt good. with Rudi Galindo to upset Kim 8. Michigan St. 3-7 10-13Edwards made an 18-foot 9. Purdue 3-7 10-13 and Wayne Seybold for the 10. Northwestern 1-10 8-13jumper with four seconds left pairs championship Friday, unday, lifting No. 13 IndianaSclearly outskated and out­past Purdue. to knock them down." scor1ed Trenary in the four and "I thought I shot it a little Purdue coach Gene Keady a half-minute free skating early, but I had a good feeling," cringed at losing another close finale. But an eighth-place said Edwards, who scored 27 one. Purdue is 3-8 in games finish in compulsories Wednes­points. "It felt good once I decided by five points or less, day and a second behind Tren­released it." while Indiana is 5-0. ary in the short program While Edwards was soft­"This is the same thing that Thursday left her too far back spoken of the basket that has been happening all year," to challenge for the title. carried Big Ten-leading In­Keady said. "I hope that at the Trenary attempted just four diana to its 14th consecutive end of the season we are a toug­tripl1es and landed only three of ome victory over two seasons,hher and smarter team. It's just them clearly, losing her bal­Knight was truly impressed. a shame. Our kids work hard ance on a split to a triple toe "Jay's shot under pressure all game and then always find loop combination. After that er­was about as good a shot as I've a way to lose at the end." ror, which came early in the seen a kid take under those cir­Indiana, 20-5 and 10-1, rallied program, Trenary's skating cumstances," Knight said. "I from an 11-point deficit mid­.. became less spirited, almost new it was good when it went kway through the second half to AP Photo perfunctory.Jamal Meeks and the Indiana Hoosiers stayed atop the Big Ten with Tanya Harding, 18, finishedthrough the net. Before that I take a 2-game advantage over a two-point victory over Purdue Sunday In Bloomington. Jay Ed-third. in the long program andwasn't sure." second-place Illionis in the con­wards hit the game-winner In the waning seconds. third. overall.With Purdue plagued by ference standings. Purdue, 10­fouls, eventually losing for­13 and 3-7, has lost six of seven. to Meeks to pull us within one," parts of the second half with all Jeri Campbell, 18, who was ward Melvin McCants and The Boilermakers led 59-51 Knight said. "Only a great five starters on the bench with fifth in the overall standings, guard Keith Stewart to dis­with 4:56 left but Indiana player can make that play." four fouls. Indiana also had foul was forced to withdraw before qualifications, Indiana out­scored six straight on two free Hillman, who scored 17, then problems, losing their two the long program because of scored the Boilermakers 23-16 throws by Brian Sloan, two made a 3-pointer to give In-leading big men, center Todd torn ligaments in her right foot. on free throws. But the more by Edwards and Joe Hil­dianaa62-60leadwith1:02left. Jadlow and forward Eric An-Compiled from staff, wire Hoosiers squandered several lman's layup off a steal that Purdue's Tony Jones tied the derson, on disqualifications repo1rts. ne-and-one situations by mis­omade it 59-57 with 2:49 left. score on a bank shot with 27 with 8:56 left in the game. sing the first shot. McCants added a free throw seconds left before Edwards, But it was the Indiana back­"We did a poor job against for Purdue before Edwards after an Indiana timeout, hit court that was the key to the Purdue's foul problems, al­grabbed another steal for In­the ~arne-winner. Hoosiers' victory, and the tri­though that was probably the diana and threw a pass to Ktp Jones came off the bench umph marked the 23rd time in eciding factor in the game,"dJamal Meeks for a layup that to lead Purdue with 11 points, 25 starts Indiana has won by Knight said. "Our objective made 60-59. and no other Boilermaker starting its three-guard lineup was to get 40 (foul shots). But "That was a great play by scored in double figures. of Edwards Hillman and Lyn-when you get them, you have Edwards when he got the ball The Boilermakers played don Jones. '  
Dr. Tavel's Premium Optical says SAVE ON EYECARE & EYEWEAR Nobody beats our price and our quality can't be better. The Masculine Look New Generation $998 ~ SOUTH BEND ONLY Broadmoor Plaza 1111 E. Ireland Road 291-4000 Hours: Take an additional S10 off the contact lens sale prices listed belowMon & Thurs with this coupon. .9-8 Tues. Wed, Fri_& Sat 1 9-6 ®/...J Examinations Available 1 -_.-· ': ...J No appointment I ' necessary I ...J. Bring your Dr.'s Rx IBausch&LouilorSoftmate ...J Let us duplicate your 1ctearDallyorErtendedWear current glasses , -------~,....;.-~-­Preferred Vision ProviderSM :~':nJ:~rale:.s~· 2 2 $QQ98: program-Metropolitan Ior Sofhnate Bonly. PAiiB 1 1 Cootact lms eye rnm rrqrlrlll. Care kit net lndudtd. Some pilftf 1 rrsl!ldlllls IRJiy. C4Up~~~ must be (l'esmled 11 Ume oC order. L-----------------J 25°/o Off Prescription Lenses with Frame Pu1rchase. Prices for Frame Only. Many frames available in each price cateS!:ory. Other frames available at various prices. All sales are final. No refunds or exchan~es. We reserve the right to restrict quantities purchased. No wholesale dealers please.No ofher discounts, previous orders or sale Items apply.  



The Observer page 17 
Sooners could be No. 1 again 
Belles come up short against Grace College 
By KRISTINE GREGORY Sports Writer 
A second half rally sparked by a vicious full-court press didn't prove to be enough as the Saint Mary's basketball team suffered a narrow 64-59 loss to Grace College Saturday. 
The Belles struggled on of­fense, hitting only 17-for-55 (31 percent) from the field, their 
lowest of the season. 
BY THE NEXT BULL MARKET YOU COULD BE A BROKER ON YOUR WAY TO A SIX FIGURE INCOME WITH l============Ki d de r. Peabody & co==========l 
Incorporated 
Established in 1865, we are owned by GE, one of the largest
THE WEALTH 
corporations in the world. With 50 offices, 1500 brokers, we 
BUILDING COMPANY 
serve a sophisticated, affluent clientele with our superior research and financial capabilities. 
Solid, professional training. Commited sales support Superior
WHAT YOO CAN product acceptance by knowledgeable clients. And excellent 
Help ~revent Birth Defects
EXPECT FROM 
~ Support the
commissions that could put you into a six-figure income
KIDDER, PEABODY 
within three to five years. 
~ ~!~J?!J2tm!!§ 
WHAT KIDDER, We seek individuals who are self-motivated, ambitious entreprenurial and want a full-time career as a broker. 
Q HAPPY
PEABODY EXPECTS 
Professional attitude a must. 
VALENTINES
FROM YOO 
DAY! 
We are interviewing only for positions in Toledo, Ohio. We'll 
u.ut ... ~ ~(6 
() 4 4{Uel4t ~
WHERE be interviewing at Notre Dame on February 27. 
C) 6 .................. 
e.tt (S17} 575-KU4 ...U ,.._ "Z'144 " ?/(.o•te.ec...t 
Call collect (419)243-8888 and speak to two very successftll 
ENDORSEMENTS Notre Dame MBA graduates in our office. 
p. US. -1 ~.LES
Neil Garrison-1987 Seth Mason-1986 
e. k .UU...-.t 1M "'tETl 'Z'A'fl 'l1e 'l?tZ>1A1tA 
~ ........................ [)
To explore this superb opportunity, send a full resume to: 
Joseph T. O'Leary, Vice Pres. 
ONLY $19.95 0)
.Kidder, Peabody & Co. Incorporated 
fincludes fN delivenrJ Suite 1000 First Federal Plaza Toledo, Ohio 43624 (419) 243-8888 

Associated Press 
In college basketball this season, it's not good to be the king. No sooner do you get to the throne than someone comes 
' up and lops off your head. 
Arizona became the third team in three weeks to reach the top and lose within a week when it lost 82-80 to No. 5 Okla­homa Sunday. , 
Since Oklahoma beat No. 3 Missouri this week, secon<l ranked Georgetown lost to Pit!­tsburgh and fourth-rankeM Louisville lost to Florida Sta•t and UCLA, the Sooners prol>­ably will retake the top spoil in the Associated Press poll Mon­day. 
"We volunteered last week," Oklahoma coach Billy Tubbs said. "Any time you need us for No. 1, we'll do it. Someone's got to do it." 
Stacey King scored 24 pointl; and Oklahoma overcame ta seven-point second-half deficit. 
Tubbs thinks his team, whi~h also beat Arizona in the na­tional semifinals last spring, should be No. 1. 
"When you really got do\ftl to it, and I had to be fair, fd probably put us in there,'~ he said. 
In other games Sunday in­volving ranked teams, UCLA ·beat No. 4 Louisville 77-75,~No. 6 North Carolina beat Virginia 
85-67,  No.  13  Indiana  beat  
IFEBRUARY 15 I  ©  2 3  
NVA SWIM RELAYS OPEN RACQUETBALL  !A ~ ~  9 6 1 0  
FLOOR HOCKEY  0  


Purdue 64-62, No. 19 Nevada­Las Vegas beat No. 17 NOfth Carolina State 79-70 and No.' 18 Stanford beat Washington 82-74 in overtime. 
In beating Arizona, Okla­homa won its 27th consecutive home game. Sean Elliott scored 26 points for Arizona, 18­3, which had its 10-game win­ning streak snapped. 
UCLA 77, Louisville 75 
Pervis Ellison was called for 
goaltending on Pooh Richard­
son's 8-footer with one second 
left and Louisville lost for the 
second time in a week. 
The Bruins, 16-5, scored five 
points in the last 1: 10 to over­
come a 75-72 deficit, taking ad­
vantage of two bad passes by 
the Cardinals, 17-5. 
Trevor Wilson made two free 
throws with 70 seconds remain­
ing. Kenny Payne threw away 
a pass and Derrick Martin tied 
it on a free throw with 41 
seconds to go. 
Wilson scored 21 points and grabbed 13 rebounds for UCLA. payne scored 22 for Louisville and Ellison added 19. 
North Carolina 85, Vir­ginia 67 
Cavaliers last month. 
North Carolina, 19-5 and 6-3 in the Atlantic Coast Confer­ence, made eight of its first 11 shots while Virginia made just two of its first 12. The Cavaliers, 13-8 and 5-4, never got the deficit below seven points after that. 
Bryant Stith scored 20 points for Virginia. 
89, N. Carolina
UNLV State 80 
David Butler scored 21 points, including 15 in the first half, as the Runnin' Rebels took a 49-34 halftime lead. 
Stacey Augmon added 20 points for Nevada-Las Vegas, 16-6, who led 26-9 midway through the first half. 
Rodney Monroe scored 37 points for the Wolfpack, 15-5, who closed to 68-66 with 7: 12 remaining before the Tar Heels went on a 12-6 spurt. 
Stanford 82, Washing­ton 74, OT 
Stanford's Todd Lichti scored 19 points, including half of his team's 16 points in over­time. Lichti made two field goals and four consecutive free throws during the overtime for the Cardinal, 19-5 and 10-3 in the Pac 10. 
ND dominates Quadrangular 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
In the Notre Dame Quadran­gular, the Notre Dame men's tennis team earned more vic­tories in one day than they had all season. 
Coming into the match, the Irish had posted two wins, but in the Quadrangular the young Irish squad defeated three les­ser regional foes. Notre Dame catapulted their record to 5-2 by thrashing Akron, Toledo and Bowling Green. The favored Irish accumulated 20 individ­ual wins while dropping only one. 
"In the past, we haven't al­ways gone out and taken care of business," said head coach Bob Bayliss. "I was impressed that almost each player went out and methodically and surgically beat their opponent. It is one thing to know you're better and something else to go out and prove it." 
Bowling Green head coach Gene Orlando had these im­pressions after his team suf­fered a convincing 7-0 loss to the Irish. 
"They have a great team and coach who are definitely headed in the right direction,'' said Orlando. "They are on the way to building a national pro­gram. My players are ponies and Notre Dame's are thoroughbreds. 
According to Bayliss, the best team performance of the day for the Irish was against Akron. Notre Dame thumped the Zips, 6-1, in the first match of the day. 
The Akron contest was the setting for the debut of two new faces into the Irish lineup. Freshmen John Silk, a baseliner from Toledo and John Ehrling, another baseliner with a good forehand, earned the first single victories of their bright careers. 
The early rising Irish stayed awake to hand Toledo a 7-0 loss. Notre Dame did not drop one set in this lopsided affair. 
Two of the many standout performances were turned in by No.1 Dave DiLucia and No. 5 Ryan Wenger. 
"I was very impressed with David," said Bayliss. "On oc­casion he has allowed a lesser opponent to stay in the match. But today he was overwhelm­
ing. Ryan Wenger played ex­
ceptionally well." 
As a team, Notre Dame emerged from the Quadran­gular with some much needed confidence. The Irish will need the confidence considering their next ten foes are all na­tional level programs who are more than capable of,beating the Irish. 
"The wins will give us moti­vation," sais Brian Kalbas, senior captain and No.2 player. "We can use these as a step­pingstone for our goal." 
No. 1 Dave DiLucia had this to say about Saturday's action. 
"We didn't have a letdown" said DiLucia, a freshman fro~ Norristown, Pa. "We pulled to­gether and we will continuely do that throughout the season." 
Bayliss echoed his player's thoughts on the impact of the day's events. 
"We will go in the stretch with a respectable record," said the second-year head coa­ch. "It feels pretty good to get three wins in one day. So far this season, we have played three good teams so we will not see anything we haven't seen before." 


The Observer I Paul Compton 
The Irish men's tennis team lost only one match In the Notre Dame Quadrangular Saturday at Eck Pavillion. Bob Mitchell details the action at left. 
Sauers wins tourney 
with chip on final hole 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU--Gene Sauers 
chipped in for birdie on the 
final hole Sunday to win the 
weather-shortened Hawaiian 
Open golf tournament. 
Sauers took the lead with a 
12-foot birdie putt on the 17th 
hole, then finished off a final­
round 65 by chipping in from 
just off the back fringe of the 
green for the second victory in 
his six-year PGA career. 
He finished the rain­abbreviated 54-hole event in 19­under-par 197, the best three­round score on the Tour this season. The tournament was reduced to a three-round, 54­hole format by heavy rains that disrupted play Friday and Sat­urday. 
The weather cleared Sunday, but the Waialae Country Club course remained saturated, with puddles of water dotting the fairways. Players came off the course mud-spattered to the knees. The extremely wet conditions prompted officials to allow players to lift, clean and place balls in the fairways. 
"It was very wet and very muddy out there," Don Reese said. "But since we were able to clean and place the ball, it really didn't matter." 
Sauers broke a tie for the top spot with David Ogrin and Dave Rummells when he ran in the birdie putt on the 17th. 
Rummells, playing in front of Ogrin and Sauers, finished at 17-under-par 199. Ogrin was 17­under and Sauers 18-under when they went to the tee on the par-5 18th. 
Neither was able to reach the green in two. Ogrin pitched onto the green about 10 feet below the cup. Sauers lofted his third shot over the green. But it was blocked by the gallery and came to rest just off the fringe. 
With Ogrin facing a potential birdie putt, Sauers apparently needed to get it up and down to force a playoff. Instead, he put it in the hole from about 18-20 feet for the winning birdie. 
The victory was worth $135,000 from the total purse of $750,000 and pushed Sauers' earnings for the year to $178,393. His only other Tour triumph came in the 1986 Bank of Boston Classic. 
Ogrin made his birdie putt to finish off a 66 and was second at 198. He was followed by Rummells, who had a 64 and matched his career-best finish. 
Jim Carter, who led through 36 holes, could do no better than a closing 70 and drifted back to fourth at 200. 
Reese, making his second try on the Tour after spending five seasons as a club pro in upstate New York, also had a 64 and was tied at 202 with Chip Beck. 
Join The Observer 
o~====================================~o 
ATTENTION JUNIO:RS 
Applications are currently being accepted for the following position: 
Business Manager 
• 
Oversee production of a newspaper. 

• 
Work with these seven departments: Advertising, Circulation, Business, Production, Systems, Observer Typesetting, and Ad Design 

• 
Will be responsible for planning and implementing a balanced budget for the student newspaper. 

• 
Need to be a motivator, planner, and trouble shooter. 

• 
No previous newspaper publishing experience necessary. 


Call Chris Donnelly at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position. 
=Ihe=-Obser.Yer-___
= 
You are coraiaf{y invitee£ to.... 
rr/ie Campus-Wide 
S'Y2( 
J"eaturing tfie C~icago tJ3anc£ :J\(prtfi 'Dining Commons J"e6ruary 24, 1989
q-f,uJ 3l'(@tWI!J 
9:00-2:00a.m. Prize 'Drawings lieU tlirougfwut tlie niglit 
'lic/(gts $3 per person 9vfianigfit 'Drawing: avaifa6Ce at La:Jortune Infonnantion 'Desk_ 'Evening for two in Cliicago ana from you.r aomt S'YJ( commissioner induaing fimousine, ainner, ana sliow 
Monday, February 13, 1989 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
6:30 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents "Prepar­ing for Office Visits-Plant Trips," with Marilyn Bury, Res­burgh Library Lounge. 
7 p.m. Communication and theatre film: "The Killers," di­rected by Robert Siadmark, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7 p.m. London and Rome summer programs, Rooms 351 and 351 Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
9 p.m. Communication and theatre film: "Window Water Baby Moving-Report-Castro StreeWalentin De Las Sierras," Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
11 :30 a.m. Economics lecture entitled, ''The Informal Sector in South Mrica," by Ranjini Thaver, Room 131 Decio Faculty 
Hall. 
7 p.m. Cultural diversity forum: "Cultural Diversity: Past, Present, and Future," moderated by Father Theodore Res­burgh, in Theodore's, LaFortune Student Center. 
Noon, Tuesday Achille Mbembe of Columbia University will speak on "The Politics of the IMF's Structured Adjustment in Mrica," in Room 131, Decio Faculty Hall. He will also lecture on "Religion and Politics in Post-Colonial Mrica" Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Cheese French Toast Veal Cordon Bleu Baked Sole Lasagna Meatless Baked Ziti Cheese Souffle Top Round of Beef Deli Bar 
ACROSS  28 Art category  51 Curve  
1 Kind of brake or  30 Mail  53 Northern  
camera  34 Musical  56 Smudged.  
5 Expunge  instrument  60Yield  
10 Brogan 14 Venezuelan copper center  36Adam's giveaway 37 5vfa  62Wan 63 Adam's second son  
15 Message-sending  39 Total corporate liabilities  64 Fortification  
method 16 Sharpen  42 Handsome . Greek  65 Eye 66 Unit of force  
17 Slightly wet  43 Muscular spasm  67 Respectable kin  
18 Whimsical  44 Keyhole  of ain't  
20 Smiled  45 Pace  68 Close by  
derisively 22 Large antelopes 23 Hairpiece  46 Glossy proof, for short 48 Before, to the  DOWN  
24 Unique person  Bard  1 Fathers  
25 Ancient  49 Trudge  2 Land once  
called Persia  
3 Indefinite  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  quantity  
4Antic  
5 King of Siam's  
repeaters  
6lnterpret  
7 High mountain  
a Calm  
9 Banish  
10 Front of a leg  
13 Some M.IT.  
alumni  
21 Syncopated  
music  


COMICS 
Bloom County 
rP UK€ 10 llflJtfJ&IZ€ RJR '£51Y?I?IIY"S WHCUY IINMNCT!ON6fl MTIK!CIIt. ATTACK ON 1H€ VIC€­
fKe5!tJarr~ LOveLY Wife. 
Bloom County 
fJON7f/11!;7 f/P (JfJ 1HIIT'5 1?/&HT... IM A
t+!e ff¢JVN, IVANA / fENNit.t55 CI/T NOW. .. -· 11/?eti'T I .JI/5T115 LOVI/&6 11 WY WITHOfiT ?He$600 Mit. ?,/ 
lr-'5 Jtf£... 81/rI'M ~TIU M~l.. 
YOiiR PQVtl{.fJ./ 


,. 
.. 
Berke Breathed 
0!3V!OfJ5t.Y, Ht Wl/5 IIN/li#AR€ 1HIITJHe 
Cf/RmJN TfiX 13/U.. 15 (/f FO!? f/?65/t?eN11fl{.. '6TO 1li15 we@<.• 
J(lll Hll / 
24 Glenn and Schirra did it 25 Killer whale 26 Guides 27 Train station 29 Nothing 31 Elevator inventor 32 Long scarf 33 Pavarotti or Popov 35 Eat 
The Far Side 
37 Baptism, e.g 38 A Borgia in-law 40 Scarf with long 
ends 41 Vim; vigor 46 Kind of skate or 
coaster 47 Mine find 50 Webb-Tierney 
film: 1944 52 Fattened cockerel 
, 
53 Infant 54 Unsealed 55 Miff 56 Laurel or 
Musial 57 Frenzy 58 Fitzgerald of 
songdom 59 Cervine anim< 60 Bounder 61 Lemon 
appendage 
Gary Larson 

Applications for SUB Comedy Zone 

Taylor Mason comes to NDExecutive Committee Comedian, musician and
& 
ventriliquist all rolled Commissioners 
up in one
can be picked up 2nd floor Feb. 16th, 9:00pm LaFortune, Due Feb. 22 Theodore's --FREE 
SUB Open House 
Wed. the 15th at 6:30pm SUB office 

~-------------------------------~----------------------------­
Sports
Monday, February 13, 1989 !Jage 20 
Irish improve to 14-4 with win over Trojan 
USC losing streak at 12 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Writer 
Close, but no cigar. Same old song and dance. Been down that road before. You name the cliche and it applies to South­ern Cal's 83-74 loss to Notre Dame Saturday afternoon at the Joyce ACC. 
Although the Trojans had lost 11 straight games entering the contest, the Irish knew that meant little. 
"All we wanted to do was win and get out," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps, who saw his team improve to 14-4. '"They have a talented team. We were fortunate enough to capitalize on their mistakes. I'm happy to get out with the 
win." 
Until the final buzzer, the 
Irish could never seem to put 
away the Trojans. In the first 
half, Notre Dame led by as 
much as 12 at 27-15 only to see 
that lead shrink to 41-37 at half. 
In the final minute, the 
Trojans, thanks to another poor 
Irish free-throw shooting per­
formance, trailed 77-74. But as 
has been their want, the 
Trojans (7-16) couldn't hit the 
shot to put them over the edge. 
Notre Dame's Joe Fredrick, 
who led the Irish with 23 points, 
hit four foul shots and LaP­
honso Ellis finished the game
with ci~ exclamation mark with 
a monster jan! !or the final 
margin. 
"Coach has been working 
see USC, page 12 Women still perfect after rout of Billikens 
By TIM SULLIVAN got the break going and took Sports Writer advantage of their mistakes." 
., 
While the Lady Billikens A rout. were having trouble with the A killing. Irish man defense, Notre Dame 78-34. was slowly picking away at the 'Nuf said. St. Louis zone. If the Irish in­Notre Dame women's bas­side players weren't finding
ketball coach Muffet McGraw openings inside, then ran a glorified practice Satur­sharpshooters like Lisa Kuhns day afternoon at the JACC, as (3-4, including a 3-pointer) and 
.. her squad re-defined the word Annie Schwartz were bombing'rout' with a 78-34 conference away from deep.victory over St. Louis. Further evidence of the Irish 
Playing before its largest domination comes straighthome crowd of the season (598 from the stat sheet--the Btl­fans), the Irish utilized an ag­likens shot .307 from the field gressive man-to-man press and in the game (.273 in the first a balanced scoring attack to half), .476 from the line, and dismantle an over-matched committed 36 turnovers in the St.Louis team. contest. 
Diondra Toney led the first The second half saw McGraw half charge with triple-double empty her bench early. In fact, caliber numbers. As the Irish just two players failed to reach were running to a 41-15 lead, double figures in minutes, and the senior forward racked up only one player (ironically, the 
eight points, six rebouunds, team leader in minutes, Mar­and five steals. She played just garet Nowlin) did not score. 17 total minutes, but still Freshman walk-on Maureen finished with probably her best Nelligan provided the late numbers of the season. game excitement, as the 5-7 
A 16-0 Irish run early in the guard nailed her first two field first half transformed a 9-6 goals of the season with silkyIrish lead into a 19 point differ­smooth jumpers. ence, and the large crowd The game continued two began to enjoy the Corpus streaks--the Lady Billiken's Christi Elementary School remain winless in the MCC, Cheerleader's sideshow. while Notre Dame's has yet to 
"Our defense keyed that," lose in it's first season of MCC said McGraw of the run. "We play. 

Bennett ignites NID offense as injury sidelines Jackson 
By BRIAN O'GARA is that you've got guys who can . Sports Writer come in and hit the pressure shots." 
It was homecoming day for Bennett cooly sank several 
Irish basketball legends John pressure shots--nine in a row 
Paxson and David Rivers, but as a matter of fact--to give the 
there was a new kid on the Irish the spark they needed to 
block who stole the show. fight off the fiesty Trojans. 
An opportunistic Elmer Ben­"That's as good a perfor­
nett poured in 19 timely points, mance from a freshman com­
a career high for a just-budding ing off the bench since I've 
career, in Notre Dame's 83-74 been here," said Phelps, the 
win over Southern Cal at the same man who has coached 
Joyce ACC on Saturday after­Rivers, Paxson and Adrian 
noon. Dantlley as freshmen. 
"We were concerned not Bennett took off his warmups 
having Jamere Jackson in just six minutes into the game 
there," said Notre Dame head and preceded to find his com­
coach Digger Phelps, "but the rade Sweet on an alley-oop 
'Texas Express' came through layup only 14 seconds later. A 
today. They were the heroes." minute later the path from Ben­
The Texas Express is the nett's hands to the net would 
freshmen tandem of Bennett be much quicker. 
and Daimon Sweet. Both hail With Southern Cal closing the 
from the Lone Star State gap to 15-13, Bennett nailed 
<Bennett from Houston; Sweet four straight jumper:; from 
from Beaumont) and both have varying distances to open up 
played a key role in 14-4 Notre Notre Dame's biggest lead of 
Dame's success so far this the game. 
season. The Trojans refused to fold 
Jackson sat out Saturday's and battled back in the second 
contest after suffering from half, only to be foiled again by 
back spasms in practice on the 6·1 freshman. Down by just 
Friday. With the junior co­three, Southern Cal saw Ben­
captain (and his 22-point nett <:an his seventh and eighth 
average in the last three consE!cutive field goals on the 
games) out of the lineup, some­afternoon to halt the Trojans' 
one had to fill the gap. surge. 
Sweet drew the start but Ben­But it was Bennett's first col­
nett, who turns 19 today, would legiate three-pointer, with his 
do the finishing. team up by just two and only 
"I told the bench that it was 3:40 on the clock, that broke the 
their day and they would have camel's back. 
to be ready," said Phelps. 
"What makes this a great team seet BENNETI, page 12 

i 
The Ob8erver I Paul Complon 
The Notre Dame wrestling team lost a tough deci­week and It affected th11ir performances against sion to visiting lfldlana Friday night. The Irish the Hoosiers. have been bothered by Illness during the past 
Hoosiers edge ND wrestlers 
By GREG but also a severe case of to 8-3 while Indiana improved SCHECKENBACH bronchitis. The decision to let its dual meet record to 11-8. Sports Writer some of the wrestlers compete In the first four individual 
and that all the matches except matclhes of the night, the Irish Decisions. Decisions. Deci­one were won by decision made did nothing more than shut out sions. this an especially tough loss for the Hlth-ranked Hoosiers. With Surely, that is what the Irish the Irish. wins by Andy Radenbaugh,wrestlers were thinking about "I was real disappointed Marcus Gowens, Jerry Durso, after their stunning 18-16 loss about the match because I and Pat Boyd, Notre Dame was to Indiana Friday night at the believe our health cost us the ahead 12-0. Radenbaugh (9-1,
Joyce ACC. victory," said coach Fran 31-7), who was suffering from Notre Dame was not only bat­McCann. tling the Hoosiers Friday night, Notre Dame's record droped se1~ INDIANA, page 13 







