----~ -------------~~---·---­
VOL. XXIII NO. 8 WEDNESDAY , SEPTEMBER 6, 1989 
.. . THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush asks $7.9 billion for drug war 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush, calling drugs "the gravest domestic threat facing our nation," Tuesday night proposed a $7.9 billion war on narcotics emphasizing harsher penalties for users and more money for prisons, treatment programs and education. 
Bush warned Latin American drug lords that "the rules have changed'·' and for the first time pledged U.S. military help to any government that requests it. 
"Drugs are sapping our strength as a nation," the 
• U.S. helicopters arrive in Columbia I page 5 
president said in his first na­tionally televised addressed from the Oval Office. He punc­tuated his address by displaying a plastic bag of crack cocaine seized across the street from the White House. 
To attack cocaine at its source, Bush proposed a four­fold increase in the amount of military and law enforcement aid for Colombia, Bolivia and Peru. to $261.2 million in 1990. He called it the downpayment on a $2 billion, five-year pro­gram for the Andean region, with allocations earmarked on the basis of progress in eradi­cating drugs. 
To help offset the cost of his program, Bush proposed diverting $751 million from other areas. including juvenile justice, housing, immigration and economic development pro­grams. 
"We can pay for this fight against drugs without raising taxes or adding to the budget deficit," he said. 
He singled out for praise President Virgilio Barco of Colombia, where drug barons have declared war on the gov­ernment. "We have a responsi­
r· r l : I . 
~-\. " l~ 
Lavatory preparations 
bility not to leave our brave friends in Colombia to fight alone," Bush said. 
With cocaine and crack deal­ing creating violence and record homicide rates across the country, Americans appear ready for a new assault against drugs. 
A Gallup Poll released at the White House last month said a record 27 percent of Americans consider drugs the most impor­tant problem facing the nation, above poverty, the economy, the environment and fear of war. 
"All of us agree that the gravest domestic threat facing our nation today is drugs," Bush said. 
Bush held up the bag of co­caine, and said it was as "innocent looking as candy." But the president added, "If we fight this war as a divided na­tion, then the war is lost. But if we face this evil as a nation united, this will be nothing but a handful of useless chemi­cals." 
Although overall cocaine use is down, frequent use has al­most doubled in recent years. "Roughly 8 million people have used cocaine in the last year," the president said. Almost 1 million of them used the drug at least once a week. 
Even before the speech, Bush's program was praised by the head of the International Association of Chiefs of Police, Charles D. Reynolds, who said in a statement that "the crimi­nal justice recommendations of this report are responsive to critical needs." 
However, Rep. Don Edwards, the Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's civil rights subcommittee, said the plan "proposes more of al­most everything that hasn't worked -more arrests, more prisons, tougher sentences." He said a proposal to expand drug testing and step up arrests of users "poses serious threats to civil liberties.''' 


AP Photo

More arrests 
A Virginia Beach policeman subdues a suspect with the help of his police dog during minor disturbances on the resort strip in Virginia Beach Monday night. 
Hurricane approaches E. Coast 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Giant Hurricane Gabrielle, its tail winds swamping homes and businesses as far south as Barbados, strengthened Tuesday as it skirted the U.S. Caribbean islands and turned 135 mph winds toward the mainland East Coast. 
Gabrielle, already the season's biggest hurricane, was expected to grow stronger still. Forecasters said it rivaled last year's record-setting Hurricane Gilbert at the same stage, but was on a path similar to 1985's powerful Hurricane Gloria, which did $900 million in damage as it raced up the East Coast and into New England. 
Hurricane forecasters said Gabrielle appeared to be heading toward the British island of Bermuda in the Atlantic, but was still at least three days away and on an uncertain course that seemed 
Workers of the West German Red Cross prepare transportable lavatories in a tent city in Vilshofan, Sunday. Five tent cities were built for refugees from East Germany, who are expected to arrive from Hungary this week. 
to be moving from a northwesterly course to northward. 
"The biggest threat now is for Bermuda ... Anybody on the East Coast should watch this storm," said Bob Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center in suburban Coral Gables. 
Sheets said Gabrielle was unlikely to come near South Florida. 
Gabrielle, already this season's biggest hurricane, was upgraded Tuesday evening to a Category 4 hurricane, with 5 the strongest. 
Sheets compared Gabrielle's size to that of Gilbert of 1988, which became "the storm of the century" and devastated the island of Jamaica. 
As of 6 p.m. EDT, Gabrielle was centered near 21.7 north latitude and 58.5 west longitude, about 500 miles east-northeast of San Juan, Puerto Rico. It was moving northwest at 12 mph. 
The governments of the Leeward Islands countries urged small craft to stay in port and issued heavy surf warnings as Gabrielle pushed 7 4 mph winds as far as 100 mph away from its center. 
In Barbados, the easternmost Caribbean island 550 miles southeast of Puerto Rico, Gabrielle's tail caused 1 0-foot waves and rough seas on the island's east coast Monday. Some beachfront homes and businesses in the capital of Bridgetown were flooded Tuesday. 
No injuries or serious damages were reported. 
Forecaster John Toohey said the hurricane would have no effect on the Virgin Islands. 

Gloria, the last major hurricane on the U.S. East Coast in Sept. 16-0ct. 1, 1985, started on a track similar to Gabrielle. 
Suspicious man complains of injuries, asks for help 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
A man wearing a navy blue running suit has stopped sev­eral women on campus com­plaining of false injuries and seeking their help. 
According to Charles Hurley, assistant director of security, the man is described as a white male, approxiamately 23 years old, five feet, 10 inches, 165 pounds, dark brown or black short hair and usually wears a navy two-piece running suit. 
The first incident occurred at 
9:25 p.m. last Thursday evening. Two female students were walking from Dillon Hall to the Huddle. According to the women, a man came jogging up from behind them and stopped them to ask for their help. 
Hurley said according to the women, the man said he was having trouble breathing and asked if one of the women would bend over so he could lean on her back and catch his breath. The women left the scene and fled to LaFortune Student Center where they called Security. 
Security tried to locate the man, but were unable to find him, stated Hurley. The women said that they had had a similar experience with the same man last year that they never re­ported, he continued. 
A man bearing the same de­scription was seen Monday night in the C1 lot near the sta­dium, said Hurley. A Notre Dame female student was walking to her car when a jog­ger approached her. 
According to the woman, the man said, "I know this is going to sound funny but I've been running and my stomach mus-
see MAN I page 4 

AP Photo 
-----------------. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 6, 1989
page 2 
~ 


WORLD BRIEFS 

Police commanders and army generals who fight them often say Colombia's billionaire cocaine barons have the best weapons and politicians money can buy.Colombian soldiers seldom are a match for the well-paid private armies of drug lords. They are poorly trained, equipped, and paid, typically earning only $2 a month, and most are teen-age farm boys who just want to get home alive, whereas drug lords have plenty of the latest small weapons and even airplanes and helicopters armed with machine guns. 

NATIONAL BRIEFS 
What makes it hard to win a war on drugs is that those who usc them like them -or need them -and are willing to go to criminal lengths to get them.That's what George Bush confronts as the country turns with him to the conclusion that the drug problem won't be solved as long as people want drugs and will kill for them and die for them.A survey of college students found only 6 percent acknowledged "occasional" use of cocaine in 1988 ­almost half the level from the previous year. 
The blockbuster action film "Batman" and the comedies "Honey, I Shrunk the Kids" and "Parenthood" helped Hollywood rack up a record summer gate of $2.05 billion, according to fig­ures released Tuesday.Box-office revenues from Memorial Day to Labor Day were up 20 percent from last summer's record $1.7 billion."Batman" emerged as at least the sixth-biggest smash in movie history with ticket sales to date of $238.6 million. 
A 5-year-old boy's game of hide-and-seek turned into hide-and-stuck when he climbed into a washing machine that kicked on when he closed the lid.It took two men 15 minutes to ex­tract the 35-pound Donovan Redden of Orlando, Florida, from the machine in the laundry room at an apartment complex where he and his sister and three cousins were playing Monday. 

INDIANA BRIEFS 
Alcohol-related arrests at Indiana Dunes State Park have declined since the park declared a ban on alcohol July 7, po­lice said.Attendance is also down since the ban, which followed the July 4 beating of a Chicago man in what police said was as gang­related incident.Prior to the ban, officers were arresting as many as 50 people -most of them minors with alcohol -at the park on busy Saturdays. "Since the ban there have been fewer fights and disputes," said Lt. Larry Hunter, Northwest Indiana supervi­sor of the law enforcement division of the Indiana Department of Natural Resources."Folks just seem to get along better," he said. 

WEATHER 


Cloudy, but warm 
Partly cloudy and warm today. Highs in the upper 80s. Partly cloudy tonight. Lows in the upper 60s. Partly cloudy and warm Thursday. Highs in the upper 80s. 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
Student ticket distribution: Getting there is half the fun 

Every year about this time the campus goes into a frenzy over football tickets. 
For four days each September it seems there's nothing more important than getting good seats in the stadium. Seniors, the first to get student tickets, traditionally go to the greatest lengths to get seats near the 50-yard line. 
They line up outside the JACC a day in advance and camp out to be the first in line when the ticket window opens. 
Seniors bring sleeping bags, blankets, games and music, of course. On Monday night, the scene outside Gate 10 was like an outdoor slumber party. 
People camped out and talked, listened to music and some ordered pizza. That's just the thing for waiting all night in line. Before midnight, at least four Domino's trucks made deliveries outside the JACC. Imagine the confusion of a pizza deliveryman confronted by dozens of hungry college students. 
Security kept an eye on the groups to ensure the overnight waiting was orderly. 
Notre Dame (and some Saint Mary's) students stay up all night so they can see a few games in the stadium. 
Are students at other schools as Joyal to their football teams? Probably not. But other schools aren't Notre Dame, either. 
Seniors at ND know all about spirit and the feeling that goes with football games in the "House that Rock Built." They are more than witnesses to history; they are helping to make it. 
What other university's students wait all night to get tickets, and then stand up during games in fair and foul weather? 
Two years ago, the Fighting Irish played at Penn State when it was 20 below zero. Early in the second half, Beaver Stadium was about two­thirds full. Penn State's students had left the stadium. 
Notre Dame, however, has a very loyal following. Even during the lean years when Gerry Faust coached the Irish to a 30-26-1 record, ND students scrambled to get tickets. Now that the Irish are back on top, good seats are in high demand. 
Every season brings lots of speculation about the team's chances. A preseason Number Two ranking from the Associated Press is a little hard to swallow for fans of a team that has some of the best talent around. 


OF INTEREST 
CILA's first official meeting will be held today at 6:15 p.m. on the second floor of the Center for Social Concerns. All those who signed up at Activities Night or any other interested people are encouraged to attend. 
Shenanigans is holding a meeting for everyone interested in trying out for Shenanigans, Notre Dame's singing and dancing ensemble, will be held at 7 p.m. tonight in Room 204 O'Shaughnessy. If you are unable to attend, contact Julie Bruce at 283-2645. 
Football Concession Stand packets are available at the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, for all student groups that have been awarded a stand. Please pick up your organization's packet today. 
'Now that the Irish 
are back on top, good seats are in high demand.' 
Regis Coccia 
Managing Editor 

Notre Dame's romp over Virginia in the Kickoff Classic showed the team still has what it took to become national champions. Will Notre Dame repeat as national champions'? Like Lou says. it takes desire to win. 
The players in 1988 showed that they wanted to win, and they did. The students this year want the team to win again. 
That's why they're willing to wait in line for hours and voice their support during football games. 
But waiting for tickets isn't all bad. It's a social event that one would call "collegiate." When will students be able to camp out for football tickets again? It's the kind of thing one oughta do at least once in a lifetime. 
Everyone outside the JACC is anxious to get their tickets and eager to storm the doors. That's where the trouble of waiting in line enters the picture. 
Nobody wants to move away from the head of the line, not even to let ushers open the doors. The crowd roars its disapproval when told to back up, or when a few are let inside to purchase tickets. 
Tickets are usually distributed without incident, but why wait for an accident to happen? There seems to be a better way to ac­commodate students anxious for tickets. 
Students could be a little more patient and form orderly lines. The ticket office could also take steps to cordon off the distribution area so that everyone has room to breathe, move, etc. Pity the ticket managers; theirs is a thankless job. 
Students should cooperate during ticket distribution at the JACC so that everybody can get their tickets and live to enjoy the games across the street. 
Foodshare Volunteers who signed up at Activities Night or any student or faculty member who would like to volunteer to transport food to South Bend shelters once a week, please attend our organizational meeting tonight at 9:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. If you have any questions, please contact Tom Kelly at 283-1405 or Vibha Monteiro at 283-4376. 
Student Government Handbooks, a guide to life on and off campus, are now available through your Hall Presidents and Section Leaders. Off-campus students may pick up their booklets at Marie's desk on the second floor of LaFortune, Monday through Friday, 9 
a.m. to 4 p.m. If there are any questions, please contact Wendy Burek at 283-2798 or Malini Chablani at 283-4042. 



Wednesday, September 6, 1989 
Students participate in community service 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Staff 
In the tradition of community service that has long been a hallmark of Notre Dame, ninety four University students spent eight weeks during this past summer participating in Summer Service Projects coor­dinated by Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 
The students were involved in a wide variety of projects all over the United States. The projects undertaken ranged from work in soup kitchens and homeless shelters to the sum­mer camp counseling of handi­capped and inner-city children. Students were assigned their projects by the esc, which re­ceives service ideas from Notre Dame alumni clubs from across the country. 
Alumni clubs served as hosts for service volunteers who came to work in their areas, providing logistical help to the students as well as room and board in some cases. The clubs also aided participants in the Summer Service Projects by contributing money to pay for the $1200 scholarship each student will receive for com­pleting a service project. Additional money for the schol­arship will come from the Jim Andrews Memorial Scholarship Fund. 
Sue Cunningham, coordinator of the Summer Service Projects, praised the participants in last summer's projects. "They were very enthusiastic about what they were doing," she said. "They lived to help people, but they also learned much more (about social problems and the people affected by them), than they expected to when they started." 
Those sentiments were echoed by Stephen Zayko, a Notre Dame sophomore who spent eight weeks as a child care worker at St. Vincent's Home for Children in Lansing, Michigan. The home houses approximately thirty emotion­ally impaired youngsters re­ferred there by family courts or 


Correction 
Saint Mary's Activities Night will be held tonight from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. at the Angela Athletic facility. The date announced in Tuesday's Observer was incorrect. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FOREIGN 
STUDY 
PROGRAM IN 
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 
Professor Maria Rosa Olivera-Williams 
Wednesday, September 6, 1989 4:30P.M. Room 109 O'Shaughnessy 

ALL ARE WELCOME! 
other authorities. Zayko told of two children who scheduled visits to their families for the Fourth of July week­end. One boy's visit was canceled because his mother spent the money she intended to spend on food for her son on alcohol for herself, the other boy stayed at the Home because his parents decided to throw a big party for their adult friends and did not want to be bothered with caring for their son. 
"The kids at the home come from all kinds of backgrounds, but they all have suffered traumas that make it hard for them to interact with people normally," said Zayko. "They needed help to overcome their emotional problems, and it was a gratifying experience for me to be there to help them." 
Sean Maxwell, another Notre Dame sophomore, served for eight weeks at the Neighborhood Service Center, a community center that assists Hispanic and Cambodian immi­grants in Santa Ana, California. Maxwell said he spent most of his time doing clerical work, but he said talking with the center's clients made his project rewarding. "I found it very in­teresting to learn about the ex­periences of the people at the center," he said. 
Besides gaining personal sat­isfaction and scholarship money for their service, partic­ipants can obtain course credit by attending post-project semi­nars. The seminars are de­signed to help students reflect on their service project experi­ences. 
The apparent success of the Summer Service Projects pro­gram has allowed it to grow in size from the three student programs it began as in 1980. Stanford University plans to begin a similar program for its students, and many other col­leges have expressed interest about it. 
Cunnigham said that the CSC plans to begin advertising for next summer's program in December. She hopes many more Notre Dame Students choose to participate in it. 



LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke a l1fesov1ng 
Red Cross CPR course
+American Red Cross 

The Observer page 3 

Thousands of Russian speakers, some carrying banners, during a mass demonstration in Tiraspol's main square on Sunday. Russian speakers have been on strike for almost two weeks in protest against a law making Moldavian the official language of the Republic. 
ND ranks 3rd in NEH fellowships 
Special to the Observer faculty fellows during the five­awarded to Notre Dame faculty year period. Only Harvard and members in both 1986-87 and Princeton, each with 21 had 1987-88, 3 in 1985-86 and for 
The University of Notre Dame more, while the University of the upcoming academic year, ranks third nationally among Chicago and Columbia and 2 in 1988-89. Winners of private universities in the num­University each had 16. When the fellowships in 1989-90 are ber of National Endowment for public universities are included, Richard Foley, chairman and the Humanities (NEH) fellow­Notre Dame, Chicago, and professor of philosophy; ships won by its faculty from Columbia are tied for sixth in Jacqueline Brogan, associate 1985-90, according to statistics the rankings. professor of English; and provided by NEH. Michael DePaul, assistant pro­
Notre Dame had 16 NEH Four NEH fellowships were fessor of philosophy. 
Bush administration backs new proposal for Palestinian elections 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration, eager to break a diplomatic impasse in the Middle East, is quietly backing a 10-point proposal by Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak for Palestinian elec­tions, U.S. officials said Tuesday. 
But it was not clear whether the proposal, which modifies a plan by Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, is acceptable to Israel or to the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
The administration supports the Shamir plan but has been unable to sell it to the PLO, which has the power to block Palestinians living on the West Bank and in Gaza from cooper­ating in the election. 
Shamir's idea is to have elected Palestinians negotiate with Israel a temporary ar­rangement for self-rule in the territories; This would be fol-
DISCUSSION 
with 

lowed by talks on an overall Middle East settlement involv­ing also Jordan and Egypt. 
Among Mubarak's sugges­tions, said an official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, were the temporary withdrawal of Israeli troops from polling areas and partici­pation in the balloting by Palestinians who live in East Jerusalem. 
Also, leaders of the Palestinian insurrection on the West Bank and in Gaza who have been deported would have a role to play by conveying their negotiating ideas to Palestinian residents. 
Israel, which has vowed never to relinquish control of Jerusalem, its capital, is op­posed to balloting by Palestinians who live in the city. It is one of the main sticking points in the so-far unsuccess­ful U.S. effort to launch negoti­ations. 
Mubarak's idea, the official Arab governments. 
Come and join The Macri's Deli Family 
FUN ENVIRONMENT WITH OPPORTUNITY TO GROW Positions Available: cooks dishwashers busboys hostesses 
work days or nights! 
Apply in person Located in University Center 


~ir Richerd's 

HAIR DESIGNS 

277-0734 
Men & Women's Cuts, Perms, Styles Z1417 DixieWay North (Roseland) ~ South Bend, IN 46637 ' 25% off Nexus, Thermafuse & Paul Mitchel Products with this coupon. 
said, is to have the Palestinians vote outside Jerusalem and then return to their homes. 
The PLO, meanwhile, has de­nounced the election plan as a ploy to ward off establishment of a Palestinian state. 
In light of these and other differences, Mubarak's pro­posal was warmly received by the Bush administration. 
"Mubarak's approach is a way of getting the election pro­posal to take a few steps for­ward," the official said. "He has offered himself as a media­tor, to bridge the gap." 
Another U.S. official, also in­sisting on anonymity, said: "These are interesting ideas. The Egyptians are trying to help the process of getting to elections." 
The officials said American diplomats had taken up the proposal with Israel and with 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 6, 1989
page 4 The Observer 

AIDS mistake victim files suit against M.D. 
Associated press pointed to hear the case, Marsha 
Harrison, chief counsel for the 
INDIANAPOLIS -A woman medical malpractice division, who planned her funeral, was said Tuesday. evicted from her trailer and lost Dr. l~obert Goulet and another her boyfriend after two tests had physician named in Gray's com­mistakenly shown she had the plaint, Dr. Richard Kohler, said AIDS virus has filed a complaint an attorney had told them not to against the hospital and doctors discuss the case. A third physi­involved. cian named in the complaint, Dr. 
"It should never have happened Lawrence Wheat, did not return and I don't think it ever ought to telephone calls placed to his of· happen again," Gayla Gray said lice Tuesday. in a recent interview with The Gray's lawyer. Michael Van Indianapolis News. "I wouldn't Treese, believes the mistake wish this on someone I de-could have occurred in one of spised." two ways. 
Gray, 33, of Noblesville, was The tests for the AIDS virus hospitalized for peritonitis in could have registered false posi­1987 and was tested for AIDS tives. In that case, Treese said, antibodies when she failed to re-doctors should have retested spond to antibiotic treatment. Gray's blood earlier than they The first test was positive, as did, since the number ofT-cells was a second, more sophisti-present was much higher than cated test on the same blood usual for HIV-positive tests. sample. A second possibility is that 
Thirteen months later, doctors Gray's blood sample could have discovered those tests were been confused with another pa­wrong when a routine test on tient's. "This other person could 
Associated Press competent to stand trial. during that testimony, and
Gray's blood came up negative have been told they do not have Attorneys and others in the Bakker suffered his emotionalfor the HIV antibody. They re-the virus, and they have now CHARLOTTE, N.C. case are forbidden to discuss it collapse the next day. 
tested the original blood sample spread that further in the com­Evangelist Jim Bakker, facing a under a gag order. Tammy Faye Bakker said herthat had been stored at Indiana munity," he said. 
hearing on whether his fraud Defense lawyer Harold husband "was so out of it thatUniversity Hospital and it tested and conspiracy trial will con­Bender filed the mistrial motion he thought they were takingnegative. Before Gray even left the hospi­tinue, suffered stress and not just before the court closed him to an animal hospital"In the meantime, Gray's tal after recovering from peri­mental illness when he col­Tuesday. when he was sent to a prisonboyfriend broke up with her, tonitis, she learned she had been lapsed, his wife said Tuesday. The motion said it was likely hospital last week. 
friends and neighbors shunned evicted from her trailer. Her Also Tuesday, Bakker's that jurors would blame de­"After 2 112 years of sheerher and her teen-age daughter landlord said it was because the lawyers filed a motion seeking fense attorneys for Steve mental torture, he was justwas taunted by schoolmates. grass hadn't been cared for. 
a mistrial on grounds that the Nelson's collapse since he stressed out," Mrs. Bakker said Gray, a nurse, had not been Later, several people told her collapse of a witness during de­passed out during cross exami­in a taped statement broadcastworking during the period be­the landlord had burned the fense cross examination last nation by the defense. Tuesday on the Jim and Tammy cause of other health problems. trailer because no one wanted to week prejudiced the jury. Nelson, a former PTL official, Show.
Iler complaint, which seeks an live where an AIDS patient had The U.S. Marshal's Office testified he had warned Bakkerunspecified amount of damages~ lived. 
said a hearing would be held at that someone could go to Bakker resigned from thewas pending before the medical Gray said her father, her two 10:30 a.m. on Wednesday to de­prison because of financial PTL ministry in March 1987 in
malpractice division of the sisters and other family mem­
termine if Bakker is mentally practices at PTL. He collapsed a sex and money scandal.
Indiana State Insurance bers rallied around her. but her 

Commission. If the case is not settled by the panel, it will pro­ceed to court. 
Neither party has yet requested a medical review panel be ap­boyfriend couldn't accept her having the AIDS virus. 
"I had told him that if he de­cided to break up, I certainly would understand," Gray said. 
Need to Get Away? TAKE THE WINDY CITY 
Spend the Day  SHUTTLE in Chicago-Cost is only $10.00  
Corne to 1st. Floo~  the information Desk LaFortune, for details  



~\..~~\~G "The Sure Thing" 
Wednesday &Thursday Nights 9:00 and 11 :15 Carroll Auditorium $1.00 Admission 
Don't Forget Activities Night Tonight! at Angela 8:00p.m. Sponsored By Student Activities Board 
Man 
continued from page 1 

cles are tight. Would you hit me in the stomach to loosen it up?" The student refused to hit his stomach and proceeded to no­tify Security, Hurley stated. The suspect fled and security tried to locate him. 
The third jogger incident oc­curred later Monday evening on Saint Mary's Road. A man with the same description was re­ported as jumping out of the bushes chasing and trying to touch three students. There were 15 girls in the area who said they saw the suspicious man, said Hurley. 
According to Hurley, when the man saw the headlights of the Security vehicle he fled into the woods towards the Fatima Retreat house. Security officers followed him on foot, but could not apprehend the man. 
Hurley said if anyone sees the suspcious man to please notify Security. 
ND/SMC PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
There is an important Personal Statement Seminar for seniors on Thurs., Sept. 7 and 
Mon., Sept. 11. Both sessions are mandatory and will be held at 7:00 in the Library Auditorium 
-----~---------~----~-~-------~ 
Wednesday, September 6, 1989 
Columbia receives 5 U.S. helicopters for drug war 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA, Colombia -Two gunmen killed an army colonel's wife outside a super­market Tuesday, and Washington delivered five heli­copters to help the government break the drug lords' violent grip on the country. 
A police source said the gov­ernment's 2 1/2-week-old crackdown on traffickers has virtually paralyzed the nation's cocaine-producing laboratories. A newspaper predicted rising prices and a shortage of the coveted drug in the United States. 
Meanwhile a man suspected of being one of the chief money launderers for Colombia's co­caine cartel faced a deadline Wednesday for appealing his extradition to the United States. 
Police gave no motive for the slaying of Angela de Guerrero, 
32. She was shot four times as she sat in her small sedan out­side a supermarket in the northern suburbs by two gun­men who fled in a white car. 
Television footage showed a carton of eggs beside the slain woman and hysterical shoppers near the scene. 
The victim was identified as the wife of Col. Carlos Guerrero, a logistics planning officer for the joint military forces. 
"Right now we're not con­cerned about motive," said a Defense Ministry spokesman, Col. Eduardo Arevalo. "We're concerned about catching the killers." 
Police have blamed previous instances of random violence on drug traffickers retaliating for the government crackdown. 
The United States delivered five UH-1H "Huey" transport helicopters, modified versions of the combat choppers that gained prominence during the Vietnam war. 
They arrived in a huge C-5 transport plane at Bogota's El Dorado airport, the last of the big-ticket items in President 
Bush's $65 million package to help the government fight its drug war. 
In recent days, the United States has sent Colombia five C­130 transport planes and eight A37 reconnaissance and attack jets. The aid also includes ma­chine guns, bulletproof vests, grenades, boats and trucks. 
Drug lords have waged a campaign of bombings, assas­sinations and threats, largely to intimidate the government into refusing to extradite drug traffickers wanted in the United States. Colombia's pow­erful cartels are believed to supply the United States with 80 percent of its cocaine. 
The drug war began in earnest Aug. 18, when an as­sassination squad believed hired by drug czars killed lead­ing presidential candidate Luis Carlos Galan. 
Shortly after the helicopters were unloaded, an apparent bomb threat caused airport se­curity agents to remove pas­sengers and luggage from a jet of Colombia's Avianca Airlines about to take off for Miami. Soldiers cleared the airport and brought in bomb-sniffing dogs. 
A suspicious suitcase, shown on local TV newscasts, turned out to be full of rocks. 
The National Police said Tuesday that since the crack­down began, cocaine produc­tion in Colombia has practically stopped and that prices should go up as a result. 
"Cocaine-processing plants in Magdalena Medio, Vichada and the eastern plains are inactive," said a police official, who in­sisted his name not be used. 
So far this year, Colombian authorities say they have de­stroyed 252 cocaine labs, mostly in those three remote regions. 
The Bogota newspaper El Tiempo, citing unidentified po­lice sources, on Tuesday fore­cast a cocaine shortage in the United States "within 30 days at most." 

WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTilUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTilUTION 
The words we live by 
'f,, learn nwre about the Cc,nstitution \vtitc: Constitution. Washington. r.wl 
D.C. 20)99· The Commissic)n on the Bicentennial ofThc Ll.S. Constitution. ~S 
The Observer 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Navy's long-awaited report into the USS Iowa explosion that claimed 47 lives will point to the "probability" that human intervention may have touched off the explosion, but will not cite a specific reason for the blast, Defense officials said Tuesday. 
Top Navy officials plan to formally release their report Thursday at the Pentagon. It culminates a more than four­month investigation into the April 19 tragedy, when powder exploded in the battleship's No. 2 gun turret during open seas gunnery practice near Puerto Rico. 
Defense Department officials, speaking privately, say the report is not expected to pinpoint a singular cause of the blast. Investigators were ham­
pered  by  the  fact  that  no  
witnesses  survived  the  ex­ 
plosion.  

"There is no specific cause cited," said one official, who spoke on condition his name not be used. 
"It's very complicated, and the report goes into a considerable amount of detail," said the official. "It's very complex.'' 
Another official, who also spoke on background, said the 
\leneed someonewith the confidenceofa~,the dedicationoC amarathonerandthe rourageofan explorer. 
We Tle(:d a Peace Corps volunteer Call us all-800-<424-8580, Ext. 9~. 


Be part of the team that gets the word out 
Join The Observer as: 
AP Courier  Driver/Deliveryman  
If you have a car, you can:  * flexible schedule  
*earn money  *shifts start at late morning  
*work a few hours a week  *start at $5/hour  
*set a flexible schedule  

For information, contact Regis Coccia or Rich Iannelli at 239-5303 
report "cites a probability" that human action, calculated or otherwise, could have caused the explosion. 
"When they can't find a mechanical reason in an in­vestigation, they look to see whether there was a human factor involved," the second official said. 
The second defense official stressed that investigators sought to look at all the circumstances that may have led to the explosion, but that none appears to have been the overriding reason for the disaster. 
The Naval Investigative Service launched a criminal investigation into the alle­gations of murder and sabotage, but failed to come up with any solid conclusions, and will instead provide a summary of the evidence compiled through interviews, statements and other research, the official said. 
The official said he was told the report will show a number of "lapses in procedures," about such problems as the maintenance of the gun turret, or that some of the sailors had not been properly certified to operate the ship's complex firing mechanism. 
But such problems were discounted as the primary causes of the explosion, both officials said. 
At his daily briefing, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said the report is 1,100 pages in length, and will be discussed by the Vice Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Leon Edney and the investigating officer, Rear Adm. Richard Milligan, at a formal Pentagon briefing. 
"It will be a very thorough 
page 5 
briefing," Williams said. 

The spokesman declined to discuss any details of the report in advance. 
Milligan, who has conducted the investigation, was chosen because he formerly commanded the battleship New Jersey and was familiar with the ship's powerful 16-inch guns. 
He will be joined at the briefing by the head of the NIS, Rear Adm. William Schachte. 
The long-awaited study has been the subject of much speculation, including numerous television and newspaper reports, over the past several months. 
Officially, the Navy has withheld comment on the investigation, as reports contended investigators were looking into the possibility that suicide or murder was involved in the explosion. 
In the latest twist, Seaman David Smith said in an interview carried by ABC-TV on Monday that Navy investigators browbeat him into implicating shipmate Clayton Hartwig in the explosion. Hartwig, a 25­year-old gunner's mate, died in the blast with the other sailors. 
According to other reports earlier this summer, Smith told naval investigators that Hartwig had made sexual advances to him the night before the explosion and that on other occasions Hartwig had talked about how to set off explosions and showed him a timer device. 
In his ABC News interview, Smith said he did not receive a homosexual proposition from Hartwig and never heard of any timing device owned by Hartwig. 

is now accepting applications for 
Day Editors 
For further information, please contact Janet Herold at 239-5303 or 283-4164. 

The Observer Wednesday, September 6, 1989
page 6 

Nowxourhomework 
wont lookhome 

•wt&iM" ··=· Now after you put in an And with your own llsc, you'll never
'i 

---···~ ·~"" ~ all-nighter, your have to trek over and line up disk in hand at .~ ..N·····,rwrwPMiN.···~ homework won't the computer lab or the copystore. 
come out looking the way you do. So ifexperience has taught you that Not once you get Apples"' personal Laser­neatness does count,we suggest you check Writer~ out of the box: the LaserWriter llsc. out the affordable LaserWriter llsc.The neat­
Having one can make your work look est way ever devised to put out your output crisp, clear, and tastefully together Even on those mornings when you roll into class crumpled, glassy-eyed, and dry of mouth. The power to be your bese 


© 1988~Ompuli!r.lnc ~.the A{f!le Vf?O antil.a.wrWriJer arr regislemi lradernarlis ofanti '7befW£r /o be.)WT' best' is a trademark ofA{f!le Canpuler.lnc 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Computing Center, Math Building 

F'nONL l(a.f1<a 
1 <)24). ttw yUgl. 
QoDIII<\ .,._ust. ,..._ plir.ful· <i 
~-.littll 
i1.JilW\ '~""' 
•llit.to>f\Ul.e'l 
~!Ill....,.,..,...,to st.~ _.,m:..~ tl~t..,. ~r.u.81id' 
\>ldlU!Ito ).AJ,O 
~},.""""' 
--t.,..ottl 
tnst .tu.\11 l(e 
~fi\.bld" 
h<ood>l'l9"" )UnKI sufte ortil..,sly a oftt.;m!l1'<» k>OO<Ji.• an· 
nus 
_,....,._, 
..a;c1;.JA<r<' 
IS\ 191~ •• 
!<atl<a ..." 

Student Kelly Matheson Courso Anthropology 101 lnstruttor Professor A Osstrman 
anic Chemisrry 101

The Neanderthals: 
A New Look at an Old Face 
Anthropologists crawl around on their hands and knees, sifting through piles of rubble, slate, and bedrock looking for bits and pieces of ancient human bone. After collecting hun­
dreds of bone fragments, some barely larger than small rocks or pebbles, these scientists make broad, sweeping assertions about how this, that, or the other part of human anatomy looked one, two, or three million years ago. Understandably, considering the amount of evidence that they have to work 
with, anthropologists occasionally make mistakes. In the case of Neanderthal man, they made a doozy. For, unlike the com­
Above. A Neanderthal skull. Notice the 
mon representation, Neanderthal man was not a bcctle­large cranial capacity and massive Jaws. browed, hunch-backed, knuckle-dragging, muscle-bound savage at all. In fact, if recent findings prove correct, he more closely resembles a broad-foreheaded, long-anned, buff mental midget like those found in todays weight rooms. Granted, it's not a heck of an improvement but it's one that warrants further discussion and research. 


At one time, before the theory of gravity existed, it was thought the earth (being flat as a pancake) was supported in mid-air on the shoulders of a giant, who in tum stood squarely on-you guessed it--the back of a tremendous tortoise. The point being. human progress is based on scientists righting the intellectual wrongs of the past. In which case, today's anthropologists have their work cut out for them. For, as scien­tist Jim Avery recently stated in the Wnkly National Star,"Our 

Wednesday, September 6, 1989 
The Observer page 7 

Soviet space program blasts off 
Associated Press vacant orbital station Mir. But "If we had colossal sums, we from the way their mission has could have had the two modules BAIKONUR COSMODROME, been promoted, the public rela­on time, but we have limited re­
U.S.S.R. -Two cosmonauts tions aspects are also impor­sources like everyone else," Lt. riding an advertising-embla­tant. Gen. Vladimir Shatalov, head of zoned rocket blasted off early Soviet officials have stressed cosmonaut training, told The Wednesday in search of a repeatedly that such space­Associated Press. Soviet space success following a flights can yield practical divi­Deciding to leave the Mir series of failures and bitter dends sorely needed in a coun­unoccupied for only the second public disputes over costs. try now struggling with eco­time since it was launched in 
Interrupting its regular pro­nomic and environmental woes, February 1986 showed a new gramming, official Radio and pounded home the theme in sensitivity to public opinion by Moscow reported "A Soviet the final hours before the cos­the Soviet space bureaucracy, space craft with a crew of two monauts' liftoff. which generally has been more blasted off from the Baikonur To help their country's space interested in matching or sur­Cosmodrome." program pay more of its own passing the U.S. space pro­
As the countdown progressed way, the Soviets have even al­gram. toward the launch time of 1:38 lowed commercial advertising Gorbachev's political reforms Moscow time Wednesday (5:38 on the flight. have given space officials 
p.m. EDT Tuesday). soldiers One of three stages of the something in common with the had gathered around bonfires 150-foot booster rocket, U.S. National Aeronautics and under crystal-clear skies to painted orange, carried an ad Space Administration: opposi­watch the launch. for the Italian insurance com­tion from a skeptical public and The blastoff was televised live pany Generali. Others, for a from legislators trying to trim on Cable News Network in the Soviet electronics company and a budget deficit of 120 billion United States. "New Dawn" perfume, were rubles ($192 billion at the offi­
The white Soyuz TM-8 cap­displayed on a side of the cial exchange rate.) sule, resting on a gray booster launch pad and in a room Space officials invited re­rocket. sat in the middle of the where the cosmonauts met re­porters from all 15 Soviet re­Central Asian desert, with no porters Monday night. publics and several Western other structures or space vehi­The 20-ton Mir was designed countries to the huge Baikonur cles nearby. Correspondents to be permanently manned, and Cosmodrome, 1,560 miles watched the countdown from a two cosmonauts ended a year southeast of Moscow in viewing stand about a mile on the space station in 1988. Kazakhstan, to watch the away. It was unexpectedly moth­blastoff. 
Mission commander balled in April, however, be­They also showed off the new Alexander Viktorenko and cause two add-on modules were space shuttle Buran and its engineer Alexander Serebrov not ready and the Kremlin did ground facilities, gave news have a busy schedule of space not want to keep a crew aboard conferences and allowed re­construction and science laid while legislators and ordinary porters to roam freely in the out for them during their six­people were demanding more once restricted nearby city of month mission aboard the now spending at home. Leninsk. 


Climbing to freedom AP Photo Vietnamese boat people clamber over a newly erected fence Monday at a detention center which houses 7,000 Vietnamese. One Vietnamese was killed and 14 others injured during a brawl between 200 Vietnamese at the camp on Sunday. 
Pluto probe could ride with sun explorer, says NASA 
Associated Press would have to be carried 
around Jupiter. 

LOS ANGELES -A rocket Farquhar said a lightweight designed to send a probe to the Pluto probe could be carried on sun also could hurl an un­the same Titan rocket. Once manned spaceship to Pluto, a they reach Jupiter, the two relatively cheap, quick way to probes would part company for visit the solar system's only un­their respective targets. The explored planet, said a NASA Pluto probe, given a boost by engineer. Jupiter's gravity, would reach 
"It's a free ride," Robert Pluto around 2014. Farquhar, who manages the Pluto normally is the ninth small-missions program at and most distant planet from NASA headquarters in the sun. But Neptune now is Washington, was quoted as temporarily in that position be­saying in Tuesday's Los Angeles cause of Pluto's elongated ellip­Times. tical orbit. 
Voyager 2's flight past Farquhar's proposal is being Neptune last week leaves Pluto taken very seriously at NASA the only planet unvisited by an headquarters, the Times said. · Earth spacecraft. There are no "I find it a very interesting plans for a Pluto mission, and possibility," said physicist such a flight won't be finan­Bruce Tsurutani of NASA's Jet cially feasible for decades, Propulsion Laboratory in NASA officials have said. Pasadena, who is planning the 
Farquhar, who masterminded solar probe. Tsurutani said the flight of the first spacecraft Farquhar's proposal should re­to visit a comet, said he's come ceive strong consideration. 
up with a way of launching a probe toward Pluto within about a dozen years and for less than $150 million. That's cheap compared with the twin­spacecraft Voyager mission that visited four planets for $865 million. 
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration plans to send a probe through the sun's searing atmosphere right after the turn of the century. 
To approach the sun at an angle that would allow scien­tists to monitor the probe throughout its flight, it fir~.t 
Correction 

Due to a redistricting last year, the dorms listed under District 1 in Tuesday's Observer were incorrect. District 1 now consists of Alumni, Holy Cross, Keenan, Lewis, Sorin, Stanford and Walsh Halls. A special elec­tion will be held within the next two weeks to elect a new senator for the district. 
Sales Representative • New Memberships or Transfers 
ILLitiOIS • ltiOIANA 

Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 

AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 

5922 GRAPE ROAD 
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 


Viewpoint 
Wednesday, September 6, 1989
page 8 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief 


Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regos Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Edltor....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Edltor.................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Alison Cocks Accent Edltor............................. John Blasi Systems Manager.. ............ Mark Derwent Photo Edltor.............................. Eric Bailey OTS Director.. . ............. .Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Edltor............... Christine Gill Controller............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objective­ly as possible. Unsigned edrtorials represent the opinion of the majorrty of the following: Ed­itor-in-Chief. Managong Editor, Executive News Editor, Voewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Ac­cent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
PJN'T FIRE. 'TlL YOU ~E THE WHITE~ 
OF THEIR 
NOSE~l 

Academic schizophrenia seizes the unwary 
Do we know why we come to know what we want? And how . To be able to hear that voien growth rather than tlw pursuit get a university education? Too Victor J. Krebs can "'e know what we want un­is what people refer to when of nxternal success, for in the many of us are under the illu­less we take time to find out? they speak of "finding one's vo­Pnd. Pxternal sueeess is Pmpty sion that the purpose of our Metanoia What we are told to choose, cation." if it is not rooted in a dear four years of college is to land while it may be very good for The confusion of seeing our knowlPdgt~ of 01w's self. a good-paying job after gradu­our soeial life should extend those that tell us to choose it, education as aimed at getting a To bP educated is to haw dis­ation. into our classrooms. To think may in fact not be so good for job instead of at self-knowledge eoverpd our own voice and to 
It is not surprising, therefore, otherwise is to bn under the il­us. But we are told so many shows a forgetfulness of the live a life that follows its com­that from the very first weeks lusion that the goal of an edu­times what we ought to want, importance of finding our voca­mand. It is to align our lives in sehool we take it as natural cation is to get a job. that we end up believing that tion. In the end, such forgetful­with a single principle, a single that we must live schizophrenic Education is not the same as we ourselves actually want it. ness leads to the incapacity to and overarching goal. That dis­lives. On the one hand, we have job training. An education is di­listen to the voices within. covery is what makes us ablP to our tedious academic obliga­rected towards finding out live aceording to our own con­
Education is not the
tions. and. on the other hand, what we want to do with our The split between our social victions and to recognize that we have our social life. They lives. The Greeks fully realized same as job training. life and our academic life is the right in others. It is, in short. nevnr intersect. and nobody that to "Know Thyself'/ is the result of the pernicious influ­what allows us to live a good
An education is

thinks they should. We go to indispensable requireml:)ht for a ence of a system that places life. classes to get respectable worthwhile life. To know one­directed towards more value in efficiency and enough credentials to get a self is in fact the essential pur­finding out what we productivity than on self-un­We can't begin to live well, or good job. We tell ourselves that pose of an education. But in derstanding. It is the result of "successfully" until we have
want to do with our

the sacrifice is worth it. But our society we are forgetting forgetting that finding out helped ourselves out of our own our "education" is seen as a that, and in the process, we are lives. what we want to do with our blindness, our own prejudices, sacrifice, and we end up looking losing a sense of our own lives is more important than and our own misunderstand­for excitement and fulfillment selves. The sad fact is that we spend fitting into a given system, no ings. But we ean't do that un­not in our academics but in our If you don't think so, try little (if any) time ever matter how successful we may less we make the effort to un­social life. telling people you want to questioning what we are given, be told it is. derstand first who we are, 
Most of us think that's the spend four years of your life because we are too busy trying what we believe, and why. That way it is supposed to be. In that "finding yourself." They will to fit in, too busy keeping pace To belong to a university above all is the reason we come way, we spend four years of laugh at you. Not only will you with a set of values we have community is to belong to a to the university. our lives (and sometimes five) sound hopelessly naive and never had a chance to choose. community that is inspired by This article previously living only part-time, living de­stupid, but worst of all, you will Before we know it, we find the goal of wisdom. A university appeared in The Observer on spite being students ... and be considered wasteful and im­ourselves in a place without any should foster our personal March 29, 1989. suffering for it. practical. Most likely the kind means to go back. 
But this is all absurd. What of (and often patronizing) ad­In failing to distinguish be­we do in class should not be di­vice you will get is, "first make tween our education and our 
LETTERS

vorced from our lives; it should a living and then you can spend job training, we are becoming not stand apart from what is your time 'finding out who you the victims of a system that 
exciting and fulfilling to us. are'." robs us of our own identity. Postal workers displayed kindness What we do in class should not But how can we choose how To see our lives at school as end in class, and what we do in "to make a living" if we don't divided into two distinct and in­Dear Editor: many foolish questions with pa­
compatible sides is a sign of the We would like to call atten­tience, helped us with various 
,....------------------.. spiritual fragmentation that is tion to the passing of another problems with their knowledge 
DOONESBURY 

IF IAJ/3 OPT 7D APPCAS& TH/3 RifT; ITCOIJW 8NCOURA.Ge FUWR/3 ACTIVITY. ON 7H8 0771ER HANPt If YOU 0/5PATCH 17; YOU MIGHT /NC1JR. 7He WRATH OF7H/3 ANI­
MAL.. RIGHTS GROUP5. 
\ 
9-b 

rampant in our society. We are significant era in the traditions and always gave us a feeling of no longer in touch with who we at Our Lady's University. Two fellowship and joy when we are because we never give our­Holy Cross Brothers who have were with them. selves the time to find out who served all of us so very well at we are. the Notre Dame Post Office re­Let us express our thanks to 
Throughout history, peoples tired at the end of August. them for their years of faithful have recognized deep within the service and wish them well in human consciousness a direc­Brother Tom and Brother Bill their future endeavors. Our tive, a sort of natural compass will be lovingly remembered by Notre Dame Post Office will not that shows us our way. students, faculty, staff and be the same without them. Everybody has it. Some hear it friends as caring men who as a voice that speaks to them. maintained a sense of peace to Kay and Bob Sanford Socrates is said to have had the hectic demands of the SMC and NIJ Alumni one. All the prophets heard it .. postal service. They answered September 3, 1989 
JOHN, I R8A[) YOU, IAJHIG-f 15 WHY I'M !3A51CAUY IN A CAUTION MOre Hf3RE. I'rJW</3 70 GeT 5011& &XPti<T OPINION IN H&R&, 50MeON8 fAMI/..IAR 
WITH V8RMIN EJ8HAVIOR.. 
I 

A RAT? N{X)() GReAT! PROBi£MO! t&T raPLAY M8TA/..K7V (j(J(}f) 7HATOI-'80Y. C[)pf 
I 
I 

'Faith is to believe what you do not yet see; the reward for this faith is to see what you believe.' 
St. Augustine (A.D. 354-430) 

-~-------------­
Accent
Wednesday, September 6, 1989 
FALL FILMS 
J 




A look at the upcoming releases . .. 
finished with a stinker," he
Associated Press 

added regretfully. Paul Newman, whose last film 
LOS ANGELES-Among the was his Academy Award­myriad of returning actors and winning 'The Color of Money," actresses, Marlon Brando, Paul will star in two movies this fall. Newman, Gregory Peck and In the first, "Fat Man and Little Audn~y IIPpburn will reappnar Boy.' Newman takes part in the on tlw big scrPPn this fall, building of the first atomic adding starpower to nnw films bomb. In "Blaze," however, he that are expected to continue becomes Louisiana governor the industry's record-breaking Earl K. Long, who has a much­year at tlw nation's theaters. publicized romance with a 
"The autumn movies look stripper, Blaze Starr (Lolita better than last year's; every Davidovich). company has promising films," In addition, Gregory Peck re­lives falls Michelle Pfeiffer. Penn undertake comedy in Hoffman and Matthew commented John Krier of turns in "Old Gringo," playing •And for one of the biggest "We're No Angels," based on Broderick play three gen­Exhibitor Relations Co., which the American iconoclast star casts in years, see "Steel the Humphrey Bogart-Aido Ray erations of robbers who eompiles box-office figures. Ambrose Bierce in a Mexican Magnolias," from the hit play movie about escaped cons. attempt a big heist in "Family 
Krier added, "In addition to revolution adventure also by Robert Harling about life in •Glenn Close and James Business.'' •Broderick and the new films, several of the starring Jane Fonda and Jimmy a Southern beauty parlor. The Woods also abandon drama for Denzel Washington star in summer movies will continue Smits. players include Sally Field, a humorous look at parenthood "Glory," about a black fighting 
into the fall. 'Batman' and Curiosity will arise in Steven Dolly Parton, Shirley MacLaine, in "Immediate Family." regiment in the Civil War. 'Lethal Weapon 2' are holding Spielberg fans with the Daryl Hannah, Olympia •Michael J. Fox and the whole •Michael Douglas is a New well. and there is also strength introduction of his new film Dukakis, Julia Roberts, Tom gang return in "Back to the York cop who braves the in 'Parenthood.' 'When Harry entitled "Always," which is Skerritt and Sam Shepard. Future Part II." Look for Part Japanese underworld in "Black Met Sally .. .' and 'sex, lies and loosely based on the World War Comedy is definitely not III next year. Rain." videotape."' II fantasy, "A Guy Named Joe.'' overlooked. Woody Allen re­•Monty Python's Terry Jones •Sylvester Stallone is back in 
Drama is the strong suit in Other star turns include: turns in a film untitled as yet, directs a spoof, "Erik the the slammer again in "Tango the Hollywood autumn this •Jessica Lange as a criminal but he has revealed the cast: Viking," with buddy John Cleese and Cash," along with Kurt year. The most anticipated lawyer defending her father on himself, Alan Aida, Daryl and Tim Robbins. Russell; they're rival Los return is that of Marlon war crime charges in "Music Hannah, Anjelica Huston and •"Worth Winning" stars Angeles cops framed by drug Brando -missing from the Box." Sam Waterston. Mark Harmon as a handsome dealers. screen for nine years. He will •Jack Nicholson in "The Two •Eddie Murphy and Richard TV weatherman whose dating •"Next of Kin" offers Patrick star with Donald Sutherland in Jakes," the long-postponed Pryor will appear in "Harlem habits are put to the test when Swayze and Liam Neeson in a "A Dry White Season," about a sequel to "Chinatown." Nights," written and directed a friend bets that he can't get Chicago police story. white family and a black family •AI Pacino and Ellen Barkin by Murphy who was also ex­engaged to three women within Lastly, two new animated in 1976 South Africa. in "Sea of Love," described as ecutive producer. three months. features will provide some 
Brando has also just finished "an erotic suspense thriller." •"The War of the Roses" •Chevy Chase and Beverly entertainment for the younger 
shooting "The Freshman" with •Tom Cruise in "Born on the features Michael Douglas, D'Angelo return as the troubled crowd and their parents: "The Matthew Broderick in Canada. Fourth of July," based on the Kathleen Turner and Danny Griswolds in "National Little Mermaid," the first He predicted the movie would life of the handicapped Vietnam DeVito in a comedy directed by Lampoon's Christmas Disney fairy tale since be a flop, announced to the veteran Ron Kovic. DeVito. Douglas and Turner Vacation." "Sleeping Beauty" in 1958 and 
Canadian press that he was fed •"The Fabulous Baker Boys" star as a wealthy couple whose Adventure, on the other hand, "All Dogs Go to Heaven." from 
up with moviemaking, and stars Jeff and Beau Bridges as divorce attorney is played by is in fairly short supply. This Don Bluth, who also directed revealed 'The Freshman" was brothers who are cocktail­DeVito. limited film list includes: "An American Tail" and "The his last film. "I wish I hadn't lounge piano players. Into their •Robert De Niro and Sean •Sean Connery, Dustin Land before Time." 
Chicago's stuffed pizza makes its debut in town 
JOHN BLASI crust is covered with an inch of 
Edwardo's only offers pizzas 
cheesecake ($2.25) which accent editor cheese and your choice of in two sizes-regular, serving although small in size, was so stuffings. This layer of cheese two to three, and deluxe, serv­
rich that two could barely finish and stuffing is covered by an­ing three to four -so bring a 
it. Plain cheesecake and Every city has its own per­other paper-thin crust smoth­hearty appetite. We found that homemade cookies also com­sonal ongoing pizza war, and ered with a liberal helping of even the regular can be too prise the desert list. 
-
South Bend is no exception. In Edwardo's delicious fresh much for two people. 
The service was prompt and the stuffed pizza realm, the tomato sauce. 

Beyond the traditional and courteous. We didn't have tobest may very well be spinach stuffings, Edwardo's ask for water, and our crackerEdwardo's spinach pizza with We tried the fresh spinach The pepperoni stuffed, com­offers some titillating choices: basket was replenished as soonwhole wheat crust, or perhaps stuffed pizza ($9.95 regular, pared with the spinach stuffed, broccoli, the Special (sausage, as it was devoured.
the stuffed pepperoni with reg­$12.95 deluxe) with whole is filled with more liberal mushrooms, green peppers, Edwardo's serves soft drinks,
ular crust. or maybe the vege­wheat crust (.7 5 extra). the amounts of thickly sliced pep­and onions), and pesto. domestic and imported beers, tarian special. .. stuffed pepperoni ($9 .15 regu­peroni, its flavor being more Although famous for their and wine. Reservations are ac­lar, $11.90 deluxe) with a regu­appealing to the spice-lover. stuffed pizzas, thin crust pizzas cepted for parties of 10 or Noted by Chicagoans as serv­lar crust, and the stuffed pep­The pepperoni and sausage can also be had with the same more, but rushed diners can 
ing some of the city's be~t . peroni and sausage ($10.25 stuffed was a little skimpy on toppings and crust selection as call ahead to place an order, as stuffed pizzas, Edwardo s piz­regular, $13.00 deluxe). The the pepperoni, but was also ex­the stuffed. A small, distinctive stuffed pizzas usually take zas, pastas, and desserts can spinach stuffed, the specialty of cellent. selection of salads and pastas about 45 minutes. Edwardo's 
now be found in downtown Edwardo's, was excellent round out the menu with the does deliver, but will probably South Bend. though the spinach was used The stuffed pizzas are filling fresh basil salad ($2.50) take around an hour to arrive 

sparingly. The whole wheat and rich so be careful not to sounding the most intriguing. . due to the cooking time. 
1\dwardo's delicious stuffed crust proved a tasty change eat too many of the unlimited And if by some remote chance Edwardo's is located at 235 pizzas are more like cheese pies from the plain variety, and garlic pizza dough crackers you are still hungry after all the S. Michigan in the heart of than traditional deep dish seemed thinner and less provided as appetizers. We pizza, dessert is waiting. We downtown South Bend, and the pizza. The thin layer of bottom doughy. found them very addicting. sampled the chocolate chip phone is 233-1000. 
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, September 6, 1989 
Irish, Wolverines pull switcheroo atop AP Poll 
NO gets 31 first-place votes 
Associated Press 

Notre Dame took over the 
No. ranking with an 
impressive win in the Kickoff 
Classic, while opening losses 
dropped Southern California, 
florida State and Louisiana 
State out of the Top 10 
Tuesday in The Associated 
Press' college football poll. 
The fighting Irish, who 
routed Virginia 36-13 last 
Thursday, replaced Michigan in 
the top spot in the first 
regular-season Top 25. 
Michigan opens at home 
against Notre Dame on Sept. 
16. 

The last time No. 1 met No. 2 
was last Nov. 26. when top­
ranked Notre Dame beat 
Southern Cal 27-10. 

Notre Dame received 31 first­place votes and 1.430 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. Michigan was second with 18 first-place votes and 1.419 points. 
Informed of the media's vote, Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said: "I just hope they're right for a change." 
Miami was ranked No. 3, followed by four other teams that have yet to play a game ­Nebraska, Auburn, UCLA and Arkansas. Miami received four first-place votes, while Nebraska was No. 1 on six ballots. No other teams received first-place votes. 
Oklahoma. Colorado and Clemson round out the Top 10. Oklahoma moved up seven spots after crushing New Mexico State 73-3. Colorado jumped from No. 14 to No. 9 after beating Texas 27-6 and Clemson rose from No. 12 to No. 10 following a 30-0 win over furman, the defending Division 1-M champion. 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Asso­ciated Press college football poll, with first­place votes in parenthese~, records through Sept. 4. total points based on 25-24-23-22­2t-20-t9-t8-t7-t6-t5-t4-t3-12-tt-t0-9­8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last week's ranking: 
Record  Pts  Pvs  
1. Notre Dame (31)  1-0-0  1,430  2  
2. Michigan (18)  0-0-0  1,419  
3. Miami. Fla. (4)  0-0-0  1,342  4  
4. Nebraska (6)  0-0-0  1,335  3  
5. Auburn  0-0-0  1,149  8  
6. UCLA  0-0-0  1,110  9  
7. Arkansas  0-0-0  968  10  
8. Oklahoma  1-0-0  886  15  
9. Colorado  1-0-0  860  14  
10. Clemson  1-0-0  812  12  
11. Illinois  1-0-0  811  22  
12. Penn St.  0-0-0  774  11  
13. Southern Cal  0-1-0  650  5  
t4. Syracuse  0-0-0  606  13  
15. Texas A&M  1-0-0  569  
16. Florida St.  0-1-0  548  6  
17. West Virginia  1-0-0  515  17  
18. S. Mississippi  1-0-0  486  
19. Alabama  0-0-0  434  16  
20. Arizona  1-0-0  396  18  
21.LSU  0-1-0  369  7  
22. Houston  1-0-0  326  21  
23. Pittsburgh  1-0-0  319  20  
24. Brigham Young  1-0-0  272  19  
25. N. Carolina St.  1-0-0  157  24  

Other receiving votes: Iowa 154, Ohio St. 98, Georgia 68, Michigan St. 53, Washington 49, Louisville 41, Florida 24, Tennessee 24, Air Force 21, Washington St. 20, Kentucky 17, Oklahoma St. 13, Indiana 11, Baylor 9, Fresno St. 9, Texas 8, Oregon 6, Hawaii 3, Arizona St. 2, Western Michigan 1 ,Wyoming 
1. 


The Observer accepts classil1eds every bus1ness day from 10 a m unt1l 4 p.m al the Notre Dame olf1ce. 314 LaFor1une, and from 12:30 untll3 p m at the Sa1nt Mary's olf1ce. Haggar College C::nter. Deadline fo,-next-day classifieds IS 3 p m All class1f1eds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid The charge 1s 10 cents per five characters per day 
NOTICES  -~  CAMPUS BANDS CAMPUS BANDS ........ Alumni Sr. Club wants to keep you busy ... leave name,  TICKETS  l  NEED 3 GA's for U of Kathleen 283-4930  MICH!  NEED 2 TIX TO NO-MICH. ST. $$CALL #t899  ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A  
STUDENT COMEDIANS all ages ... interested in performing for Alumni Sr. Club leave name and number with what you do at 277-3653 or 239 7521 ...  number and name of band at 277­3653 or 239-7521 $350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE  WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN,4 NAVY, 4 SMU TICKETS FOR USC OR Pin. PH. 419-4335334 EVENINGS.  WE Desperately need ANY tickets for ANY home game!!!!!!! Willing to pay big $$$$$$$$$!!1!!!!1! Please help us I  NEED t GA FOR MICH. ST PLEASEI!!!!! MY UTILE SIS IS COMING OUT + PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF SHE DOES'NT GO. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE  CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, tt75 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 4690t. Campus Hard Rock band seeks bassist. Experience .I must. Call  
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS 11!!111111111111! TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. Did your parents buy you a VALUE CHECK COUPON BOOK?  NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-3t5-733-6062 EXTENSION P-2382H. SOUND SYSTEM TECHNICIANS are needed to operate portable sound system. Please inquire at Student Activities Office, 239-7308 FOR RENT  HAVE (2) GA TIX PIIT & PENN ST. NEED (2) GA USC. BILL (617) 328-6898. NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL TIM, FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143.  PERSONALS NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM ... Tutor South Bend children in the NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM ... sign up in the dining halls this week!!  TIX! CALL MATI #3489 wanted: 2 pitt tickets; will trade for 2 mich state ticks-chris 277-9609 NEED UP TO 6 USC TICKETS. MONEY IS NO PROBLEM. CALL JIM AT Xt236.  Glenn at X3064 or Vu at X1809. RIDE NEEDED: Columbus OH leave 9/8 return 9/10, will help pay Please call: Laura 284-4322 CYCLING CLUB!!!!I!!!!!! CYCLING CLUB!!!!!!!!!!!  
Stop by the Information Desk in LaFortune between 12noon-9pm to pick up your book. LOST/FOUND  FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NORTH CAMPUS. 272-0615. 2 Bdrm HOME on NO ave.272­6306  NEED 2 USC & 2MICH ST. TIX PLEASE!! X1058 WANTED -"10" PIIT-NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SAT. 10/28/89. PLEASE CALL PAT COLLECT AT (412) 372-3000.  NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM... TIX! TIX! TIX! TIX! GA'S TO PUR PITT NAVY SMU AVAIL. NEED TIX TO USC. CALL JM 714-792-8919 DAY, 714-792­ DON'T LIKE FOOTBALL? I'D LIKE TO PURCHASE YOUR FOOTBALL TICKET APPLICATION. PLEASE CALL JERE AT 283-3227. NEEDED: t USC STU TICKET  The N D CYCLING CLUB is currently planning rides for fun, fitness, and sport. Don't be left behindII Call DARREN BUCK at #3472 for info on upcoming activities and meetings.  
- Picked up wrong bag of BOOKS at the bookstore on Wed. 8/30. They were in the cubby holes in the front of the store. Several Archie & Italian books. I have them in my room. Call Jeff Engelmeier x2274. LOST HEWLETT PACKARD CALCULATOR MONDAY AUGUST 28 BETWEEN LIBRARY  APT. UTILITIES PAID GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD MALE PREFERRED 288-0955 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153.  HELP! Need 3 Mich. St. tix. Plez call Patty X3848 NEEDED: USC General Admission ticketslll Will trade Mich St., Pitt, Navy, SMU, Purdue, and even MIAMI!II Please call 283-3571  5859 EVE, 714-675-8368 WKND. $$$ WANTED: TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$1! $ CALL KRIS #4340 $ CALIFORNIA LAWYER NEEDS 1-4 GENERAL ADM. TICKETS!!!! PLEASE CALL AMBER x2529!1!1  will pay cash or trade for Pitt stu ticket + $. Call Karin at x2565. SliTER NEEDED, PART TIME, KNOLLWOOD AREA, PREFER YOU HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION. CALL 277­8380.  Gears, TREKKIE CHAMPS RESTAURANT NOW HIRING WAITRESSES. UP TO $5 HR. + TIPS. APPLY AT 3421 W. SAMPLE AFTER 3:30 PM.  
AND PARKING LOT. CALL 239­7308 NANCY. Found: Ladies watch in 01, found at 4:00PM. Call Brian at 1217 to claim.  FOR SALE COLOR TV RENTALS 13-INCH, $50/SEM, $80/YR; 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959  WANTED: 2 GA TIX FOR MICH. STATE GAME. WILL TRADE 2 STUDENT TIX. CALL 233-8273 ASK FOR BRO. RICHARD HILLIS. NEED 4 GA & 2 STU TIX FOR PIIT GAME. HAVE 1 USC GAME TIK TO SELL OR EXCHANGE.  If you're not gonna' buy your football tickets, I will, Call Dan at 288-5448 NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STU TIX FOR MICH GAME CALL DIANE-2702 NEED 4 GAs AND 1 STU FOR MICH ST. WILL PAY$$$! x2966  Need up to 4 Mich State. Good $$$ offered. Kevin t663. I need two General Admission tickets lor the MICHIGAN STATE game. Please call Mike at t694. ROLLING STONES TICKETS !!! 4 tix for sale for the Sat., Sept. 9 concert at Alpine Valley, WI (45 minutes north of Chicago). Call Pat (xtt59) or Kevin (xt 023).  CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts. and great company. 234-3541 How're you going to do it? ...when you need color?  
l__W_ANT_.E_D_j Can you play piano bar type music.iazz. blues or anything in th,e coffeehouse type style Alumni Sr. Club wants you .. leave name and number at 277-3653 or 239-7521.  1980 Triumph TR7 CONVERTIBLE Looks and runs great. Must sell, plates expire soon! $2900 Call Dan 239-7666 MEN'S UNIVEGA 12 SPD. MOUNTAIN BIKE. 2 MOS. OLD.  CALL SARAH 2930. Yo Dutch, you got some Pitt tickets (GA's) for me? I need 4. Pick up the phone, dial31t7 and ask for Steve Curtis. You will be assigned a code# and you will not be asked your name.  I REALLY NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S. CALL BETH AT X4852. NEED: 2 USC GAs for Mom & Dad PLEASE CALL: Pete x1716 Tom x3258  I ABSOLUTELY MUST HAVE 2 GA'S FOR SMU GAME. PLEASE HELP! CALL STEVE X2400. HiAg  Anyone who wants to see the sold out ROLLING STONES last Chicago concert, 9/11, I have 5 tix. Call Mick at 289-5605. JUNIORS Need to sell your cruise tix? We want it.  
287-2440. OFFER.  Thanks.  Call x4121  

---------~-----------­
Wednesday, Septembe~r~6~·~1~9~89~---------------------------T~h~e~O~bs~e~N~e~r--------------------------------·--------------~pa~g~e 11 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
-------------------------~. 
A Family Tennis Clinic will be held by the NO varsity tennis programs to celebrate the Year of the Family. The clinic is open to staff and students of Notre Dame and their families, Saturday, Sept. 9, from 1-3 p.m. at the Courtney Courts (Eck Tennis Pavilion if rain). The clinic is free of charge and there will be instruction, competition and games. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Boxing Club will start the novice boxing program fqr all beginners at 4 p.m. Monday, Sept. 11, in the boxing room at the Joyce ACC. For more information, call Doug at x1818. -The Observer 
Water Polo Club will hold a meeting for new and returning members at 9:30\ p.m. Thursday, Sept. 7, in Montgomery Theatre. For more information, call x2457. ­
The Observer 

The Rowing Club will hold a meeting for novices at 7:30 
p.m. Thursday, Sept. 7, in Cushing Auditorium. No experience is necessary. -The Observer 
A Tennis Mixer. held by the Irish varsity tennis teams, will be held Friday, Sept. 8, from 6-8 p.m. Students can sign up as individuals and will be paired with a varsity tennis player for the competition. All students are invited. Prizes and refreshments are available. Sign up at NVA before the event. -The Observer 
Lyons Volleyball Tournament scheduled for Saturday, Sept. 9, is still accepting entries. Call x2851 to enter a team. Teams must have six members with at least two girls. The entry fee is $9 per team. -The Observer 
lnterhall football captain's meetings will be Thursday, Sept. 7, in the football auditorium of the Joyce. The women's meeting begins at 4 p.m. followed by the men's at 4:30 p.m. Call NVA at 239-6100 for more information. -The Observer 
Varsity Softball tryouts will be from 4 to 6 p.m. Thursday and Friday, Sept. 6-7, at the softball field in front of the tennis pavilion. -The Observer 
SMC co-ed football captains will meet at 4 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 7, in Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
NVA deadlines 
These Non-Varsity Athletics signups end today: 
Men's lnterhall Football Women's lnterhall Football Men's lnterhalr Tennis Singles Women's lnterhall Tennis Singles Undergrad Mixed Tennis Doubles 16-lnch Softball Men's Grad/Faculty Tennis Women's Grad/Faculty Tennis Grad/Faculty Tennis Mixed Doubles 
NVA aerobics classes begin today. For more information, call 239-6100. 
Attention Seniors Preparing for the LSAT 
The MOCK LSATwill be held on Sat., Sept. 9 at 8:30 a.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Please sign-up in 101 O'Shag if interested. 
Mets, Expos stay close with wins ___ 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Mets ain't dead yet. The Chicago Cubs couldn't finish them off. 
With their pennant hopes about to fade, the Mets beat the Cubs 3-2 Tuesday night behind Sid Fernandez' six-hitter and Juan Samuel's game-winning single in the ninth. New York once again closed to within 3 112 games of first-place Chicago in the National League East. 
"We had to win," said Tim Teufel, whose ninth-inning double started the winning rally. "This was a true test of this club, winning like this." 
Teufel, batting for Fernandez, hit a drive that bounced off the center-field fence and off center fielder Jerome Walton for a double. 
"I tried to catch it any way I could," said Walton, whose bad throw led to New York's first run. "It's a hard catch." 
Gregg Jefferies flied to center, sending pinch-runner Lou Thornton to third and 
Samuel  followed  with  a  line  
single  to  right  off  Mitch  
Williams, 4-3.  

"It's hard to lose a game like this," Williams said. "We came back to tie the game, put them in line for a sweep and I screw it up. It's demoralizing." 
Expos 6, Cardinals 2 
With one swing of the bat, Tim Wallach breathed new life into the Montreal Expos. 
Wallach's seventh-inning grand slam broke open a one­run game in a victory over the St. Louis Cardinals Tuesday night. Wallach, who entered the night hitting .189 against St. Louis, had three hits and five RBis and Pascual Perez gave up six hits in 8 1-3 innings as the Expos won for only the 11th time in 31 games. 
The loss ended a three-game winning streak for the Cardinals. 
"We swung the bats better tonight than we had in a long time," said Wallach, who hit his fourth career grand slam off Ken Hill in the seventh inning to snap an 0-for-8 slump with the bases loaded since July 24. It was also the Expos' first home run since Andres Galarraga hit a grand slam Aug. 27. 
"The pitch got on me a little bit," Wallach said. "I hit it through." 

Wallach, who had four RBis in the first 15 games against St. Louis, pulled to within one of team leader Galarraga, who has 72 RBis. Perez, 8-12, struck out seven and walked one as Montreal beat St. Louis for only the fifth time in 16 games. 
Reds 6, Giants 5 

The San Francisco Giants' latest comeback fell a few inches short. 
Jim Weaver missed a game­tying homer by a few inches in the eighth inning, giving the Cincinnati Reds the break they needed to beat the Giants 6-5 Tuesday night. 
The Giants fell behind 5-0 before rallying with two runs in the fourth and three in the eighth, highlighted by Weaver's two-run double off the right­field wall. But Weaver was stranded at second as Donell Nixon struck out to end the inning. 
"Weaver's ball hit off the top of the fence," Manager Roger Craig said. "We almost battled back again." 
John Franco, who took the loss for Cincinnati on Monday night, retired the side in order in the ninth to snap the Giants' five-game winning streak. 
Padres 7, Braves 5 
Tim Flannery's pinch RBI single in the 1Oth inning snapped a 5-5 tie Tuesday night and the San Diego Padres beat the Atlanta Braves for their 12 victory in 13 games. 
With National League West­leading San Francisco losing to Cincinnati, the Padres moved within six games of first place. 
Roberto Alomar led off the 10th inning with a single against Joe Boever, 4-8, the Braves' fifth pitcher. Alomar went to second on Tony Gwynn's grounder, and, following an intentional walk to Jack Clark, scored on Flannery's single to right. 
Astros 3, Dodgers 2 
Glenn Wilson singled with two outs in the eighth inning for the winning run as Houston came from behind to beat the Los Angeles Dodgers Tuesday night in a game critical to the 
-------------------------, 

with the purchase of 14" or 18" Sub. Good September 5 through 10 1989 
FREt DELIVERY' 
z?r-ott3 
113 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
~ 

~ar't-:,t'o 
~ %otor-ant<2-A; <I 
~ 

Now Hiring full time experienced waitresses able to start at 3:00 pm, pizza makers, line cooks and part time banquet waitresses. 
Astros' chances in the National League West. 
The victory, only the Astros' fourth in 14 games, enabled Houston to remain tied with San Diego for second place and to move within six games of division-leading San Francisco. TM Giants lost to Cincinnati. 
Orioles 3, Indians 1 

Baltimore's Cal Ripken became the first shortstop in baseball history to hit 20 or more home runs in eight consecutive seasons and then doubled home the tie-breaking run in a two-run seventh. 
Winner Bob Milacki, 10-12, scattered seven hits in 7 1-3 innings, including Cory Snyder's fourth-inning homer. Gregg Olson picked up his rookie­record 24th save with 1 2-3 scoreless innings. 
Twins 8, Rangers 4 

Carmen Castillo's second home run of the game, a two­run shot, triggered a tie­breaking four-run seventh inning and the Minnesota Twins went on to defeat the Texas Rangers Tuesday night as Kevin Tapani scattered six hits over seven innings in his first major-league start. 
Tapani, 1-0, a 25-year-old right-hander who made three brief relief appearances for the New York Mets before they traded him in the Frank Viola deal, walked one and struck out three before giving way to Tim Drummond, who also came over in the Viola trade. 
Blue Jays 6, Chisox 1 
Toronto's Dave Stieb pitched a three-hitter over seven scoreless innings and beat Chicago for the 18th time in 22 decisions as the Blue Jays remained one game ahead of Baltimore in the American League East. 
Tigers 10, Royals 2 

The Tigers won their fifth straight game for the first time since June 1988 as rookie Kevin Ritz pitched seven strong innings and Doug Strange's two-run double keyed a six-run first. 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 

get eleven players to play to­
gether offensively and defen­
sively." 

Adds co-captain Dave Augustyn, "We just need a lot of experience. Some of our players haven't had the big­time collegiate experience like the guys did last year." 
The Irish will gain some of that valuable experience against Detroit. "They're a young, quick team who has played together a lot," says Behrje, "We'll have to play our best game to beat them." 
~~ 


-------~~ -~ --­
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, September 6, 1989 

Johnson loses records after ruling 
Associated Press also would fall, Holt said the doping tests and the concept 
IAAF Council, its policy board, that one country can challenge 
HAHCELONA, Spain (AP) -would "discuss the next logical the drug status of another's Hen Johnson lost his track step" at its next meeting this athletes. world records Tuesday in a winter. Those parts passed with no raucous meeting that included Officially, the IAAF voted to negative debate. Speaker after charges of racism and ended take away world records from speaker pledged support for with the opposition leader any athlete who admits under ridding track and field of stalking out of the hall. oath or in writing to drug use. drugs. 
Thn International Amateur Johnson. however. is the only But taking away records on Athletic Federation voted to record-holder in that position, an athlete's confession was an­strip Johnson of his world having testified at a Canadian other story. records in the 100 meters and government inquiry last June Arne Ljungqvist, the head of thn indoor 60 meters, with that he starting using drugs in the IAAF's medical committee, Americans Carl Lewis and Lee 1981 and was taking massive said admissions such as McHan getting them instead. doses in 1987, when he set the Johnson's were as good as 
Johnson and other athletes world records. positive urine samples for find­who have testified under oath Other athletes, including ing drug cheats. to drug use undetected by tests American javelin thrower "The real solution will be a also will be stripped of world, Dianne Williams and Canadian change of attitude," Ljungqvist regional and national titles and hurdlers Mark McKoy and said. "If we continue and rec­medals, the IAAF's general sec­Anjela Issajenko, also have ognize results achieved by con­retary John Holt said. lie said admitted drug use in sworn tes­fessed drug takers, we can final action on those penalties timony and face the loss of never change the attitude.... would come late this year or various titles and medals. It's a dirty area, a backyard early next. That Canadian hearing was area, but we must get rid of it." 
No ballot figures were avail­called after Johnson tested pos­able for the stripping measure, itive for steroids at the Primo Nebiolo, the IAAF which took 3 1/2 hours of de­Olympics last summer and was president who controlled the bate and two mysterious votes stripped of his gold medal and meeting with an iron hand, said to resolve. world-record time of 9. 79 sec­the sport had to adopt the 
The voting was so chaotic onds. He passed doping tests revolutionary rule for its own that Amadeo Francis, a Puerto after setting the remaining protection. Rican member of the federa­world records of 9.83 second "We started this fight and we tion's ruling council who made for the 100 at the world must keep in the vanguard of an eloquent speech against the championships in Home in people fighting against dop­change, described it as "a trav­August 1987 and 6.41 seconds ing," he said. "These are not esty of justice" after storming in the 60 at the world indoor proposals against anybody but from the meeting room. championships in Indianapolis proposals to reinforce our 
The record changes take ef­that February. fight, to reinforce our image." fect when the IAAF issues its When the new lists come out, At least three dozen delegates annual world-records list Jan. Carl Lewis of the United States took the floor, with a large 1, 1990. But officials and fellow will have the 100-meter record percentage -led by Johnson's athletes said Johnson had been at 9.92 seconds, while coun­home of Canada and his native stripped of much more. tryman Lee McRae will have the Caribbean -speaking out 
"Ultimately, he's lost every­60-meter mark at 6.50. strongly against stripping. thing," Edwin Moses, the two­The world-record stripping "What we are trying to do is time Olympic hurdles champion was part of a far-reaching to use one black individual to from the United States, said. anti-drug program adopted by show the world we mean busi­"Everyone knows it." the IAAF, which also included ness," said Vera Bird, from 
Asked if titles and medals worldwide out-of-competition Anti qua. 
former Olympians and some of coach who spent six months the world's best volleyball play-coaching a men's Swiss volley­
Waller 

ers. ball team, believes Waller will continued from page 16 If her Mulhouse squad have a lot to smile about after 
wins the league title, she will her inaugural season with Waller may able to name her face teams from each country Mulhouse. price when negotiating her con­in Europe-all competing for "Mary Kay is a credit to tract next year. the prestigious European Cup. Art Lambert's ability to coach," 
"I am delighted and thrilled Players get bonuses for Perez said. "Art's done a won­for Mary Kay," Lambert smiled. exceptional play but may also derful job preparing Mary Kay "This is a great opportunity for feel the monetary squeeze if for this level of competition and her to make a name for herself their play does not meet expec­I think Mary Kay will be able to here and abroad and its a good tations, so Waller may face the make an immediate impact step for our volleyball pro­first serious test of her ability abroad. gram." to smile through even the most "She will be a phenomenal 
Waller will have a chance severe pitfalls. player in France and may really to prove herself immediately as help open doors for other play in the eight-team French Maria Perez, Notre Notre Dame volleyball players league will pit her against Dame's first-year assistant in the future." 
people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FOREIGN 

PRESENTATION STUDY 
By Sr. Aquin O'Neill
PROGRAM IN 


Director of the Program 
JERUSALEM 
VVednesday,Septennber6, 1989 4:30P.M. Room 242 O'Shaughnessy 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 

Chile~n soccer goalie Roberto Rojas lies in the smoke after being hit by a firecracker thrown from the crowd. Chilean soccer officials have protested the Qame to the FIFA. 
Chile protests soccer game after fireworks injure player 
Associated Press green signal flare that fell near 
goalie Roberto Rojas. The visi­
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil -A tors left the field, claiming the delegate of FIFA, soccer's flare had struck and injured world governing body, said in a Rojas. published interview Tuesday The 1-0 result would have that Chile had no reason to eliminated Chile and qualified walk off the field in its World Brazil for the 1990 World Cup Cup qualifying game with Brazil in Italy. But Chilean officials on Sunday and rejected Chile's asked FIFA to annul the game claims that a signal flare hit and declare sanctions against goalie Roberto Rojas. the Brazilian Soccer 
Augustin Dominguez of Confederation and Maracana Spain, one of two FIFA rep­Stadium. resentatives at the game, de­Dominguez upheld Brazilian nied the Chilean team faced a claims that the flare never security risk. He said he and struck Rojas. FIFA observer Eduardo Rocca "It didn't hit the goalie. I've Couture of Uruguay offered been reflecting since yesterday personal guarantees of safety, how he could have caused that but Chile rejected them. cut on his eyebrow," 
Dominguez said. 

"I and Rocca even gave our A report by Brazilian doctors word that everything was calm, who examined Hojas after the but the Chilean directors re­game said his injury was fused to reconsider," caused by a "cutting object" Dominguez said in an interview and ''definitively denies any with the newspaper Folha de lesions caused by thermal or Sao Paulo. explosive action." 
Asked to rate security at The Rio newspaper 0 Globo Rio's Maracana Stadium, the on Tuesday published a se­site of the game, Dominguez quence of six photos showing said, "On a scale of 1 to 10, I the flare landing behind Hojas,give it 10." and the goalie falling backward 
Chile was losing 1-0 after 69 and rolling onto the flare with minutes when a fan set off a his hands covering his face. 
Returning members of the 
Undergraduate Schools Commi ee 
If you missed the W ng, and still want to visit 
t ylounge 
r stop by the issions Office ( 113 Administration Building) 
ADWORKS 



~-~-----~----~---~---~-~---~ 
~~~------l 
1 
I 
I 
J 
1 
Wednesday, September 6, 1989 The Observer 
page 13 

Building the perfect beast, NFL style 
Associated Press 
The search for the complete football player would be so much easier if scouts could just build their own from individual parts of today's pro stars. 
Here's how one might look: 

Eyes: Eri(l Dickerson, the be­goggled Indianapolis Colts run­ning back and all-time NFL single-season rushing champ­ion. "What makes Eric so great is that he has the ability to see the entire football field, and not just from tackle to tackle," Colts coach Hon Meyer said. 
Feet: Rod Woodson, Pittsburgh Steelers cornerback­kick returner and world-class hurdler at Purdue University. If not the fastest man in the league -he finished second to Washington cornerback Darrell Green in the NFL's Fastest Man competition in 1988 -he has the quickest and most agile feet, running backward or for­ward. "With his quick feet," says Steelers defensive backs coach John Fox, "Rod Woodson has the greatest clos­ing speed of any football player I've ever seen." 
Left Leg: Morten Andersen, New Or:eans Saints kicker who is 8 for 19 from 50 yards and out the last four years. His 111 field goals overall are most in the league for the past four seasons. He hit at least one field goal in 23 straight games from 1986-88 and hit 20 straight in 1985-86, both third­best in NFL history. His train­ing regimen: 120 miles a week on a bicycle in the offseason, no more than 25 kicks a day after camp opens in July. 
Brain: Bernie Kosar, Cleveland Browns quarterback, graduated with honors from the University of Miami in just 
SHENANIGANS 
Notre Dame's Singing & Dancing Ensemble will be holding an interest meeting Wed., Sept. 6th 7:00p.m. 2040' Shag For more information, stop by our booth at Student Activities Night or call Julie x2645, Kevin x2325 
over three years with a 3.36 grade-point average and a double major of finance and economics. Browns coach Bud Carson is glad he's on Kosar's side now, instead of trying to devise a defense against him. "No matter what we tried to hide," Carson recalled of his days as defensive coordinator for the New York Jets, "he seemed to figure it out by the time the ball was snapped." 
Game Face: Ronnie Lott, San Francisco 49ers safety. "There's no mistaking the look in his eyes when Ronnie is in a game, and when he gets that look, there is nobody that can control him," said Eric Wright, his longtime partner in the sec­ondary. "It's a possessed look. It's just like a wild pit bull would be when he locks onto something and attacks." 
Neck: Tom Newberry, Los Angeles Rams guard, 20 1/2 inches. For comparison, Mike Tyson's neck measured 19 3/4 inches when he first fought for the heavyweight boxing champ­ionship. 
Shoulders: Bo Jackson, Los Angeles Raiders running back on the "reserve, did not report" list while finishing the baseball season for the Kansas City Royals. There are broader shoulders, for sure, but none developed any better than Bo's, which take extra large shoulder pads. "He's like a stone block," said Raiders trainer· George Anderson. 
Chest: Michael Carter, San Francisco 49ers nose tackle who wears a size 54 coat. "Michael Carter definitely would do well in sumo," said 49ers center Jesse Sapolu, who practices against Carter. 
Heart: Tim Krumrie, Cincinnati Bengals nose tackle. 
~" ~ 
\ "'~ ···~ .•. 

AP Photo Morten Andersen of the New Orleans Saints shows the most perfect leg in the NFL. If he combined the features of Bernie "'the Brain" Kosar, Boomer Esiason, Ronnie "Game Face" Lott and others, Andersen 
could be the most feared man in the league. 
Early in last January's Super Bowl, he broke both the tibia and fibula in his right leg but stayed in the lockerroom for almost three hours, watching the game on television, before doctors convinced him to go to a hospital at the start of the fourth quarter. "I wanted to stay for the whole game, but they thought I might go into 
shock," Krumrie said. 
Guts: Anthony Carter, Minnesota Vikings wide re­ceiver. At 5-foot-11, 189 pounds, Carter is undaunted catching in a crowd. "When you think about that slant pattern, a lot of them won't go," Vikings All-Pro cornerback Carl Lee said. "AC is fearless." 
Right Arm: John Elway, Denver Broncos quarterback with the 36-37 -inch sleeve, who once threw a football 7 5 yards in a game and insists "I've never really turned it loose." Former Raider cornerback Lester Hayes used to contend Elway frustrated secondaries with "95 mph fastballs." 
~=:~·:~-~~~::~:~~~:~~:::·~~~~·~:~-~p ll 

II 
and wtsh her a happy one By lhe way Laura. we do expect to see you danctng 
on pool tables lomght 

Bruno's Pizza 921 North Eddy (Goodwill Plaza) South Bend, IN 289-4625 
Delivery Available 
this week's special: 
18inch large pizza 1 item $1.00 off 
Receivers boast of displaying the "Elway cross," the "x" left after he drills the point of the ball into their chests. Last year, he completed 55.5 percent of his passes for 3,309 yards and 17 touchdowns. 
Left Arm: Boomer Esiason, Cincinnati Bengals quarterback who succeeded Elway as AP's MVP last season after hitting 
57.5 percent of his passes for 3,572 yards and 28 touch­downs. He led the NFL with an average gain of 9.21 yards per pass. As a pitcher on his high school baseball team, he was 15-0 his senior year and at­tracted scouts from the Seattle Mariners among others. 
Wrist: Dan Marino, Miami Dolphins quarterback with the quickest release in football. He wasn't sacked in the final 12 games last year, an NFL record. While there are no of­ficial records, the Miami Herald timed 20 Marino pass plays of varying patterns in 1988 and found the average time from snap to pass was 2.15 seconds. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
A quarterback should get rid of 
the ball within 2 1/2 seconds, 
depending on the pattern. 

Hands: Steve Largent, Seattle Seahawks wide receiver. He holds NFL records of 167 consecutive games with a re­ception, 791 career catches, 12,686 career receiving yards, 10 seasons with 50 or more catches and eight seasons with 1,000 or more yards. 
Thighs: Stump Mitchell, Phoenix Cardinals running back who says one thigh is about 27 inches around, just four inches smaller than his waist. 
Knees: Anthony Munoz, Cincinnati Bengals tackle con­sidered the best offensive line­man in the league. He is 6-foot­6, 278 pounds, but the power comes from strong knees that drive him from the crouch. 

Calves: Randall McDaniel, Minnesota Vikings guard, 18 1/2 inches, the same as the neck of Herschel Walker, the mus­cular Dallas Cowboys running back. 

page 14 

Mandarich signs pact, ends 45-day holdout 
Associated Press "It was just a compromise on 
both sides." Braatz said when 
GHEEN HAY, Wis. (AP) -asked about the terms of the 
Tony Mandarich, who wanted contract. 
to fight Mike Tyson, decided it The Green Bay Press-Gazette 
might be safer on the football reported Tuesday in a copyright 
field and agreed to l!mtative story that Mandarich had 
contract terms with the Green agreed to sign a four-year deal 
Bay Packers on Tuesday.~ worth about $4.3 million. The 
Mandarkh, the No. 2 pick newspaper quoted an unidenti­
overall in the NFL draft, ar­fied source that said the con­
rived at the Packers' headquar­tract contained considerable 
ters about 10 a.m., took a amounts of deferred money. 
physical and then met with of­The 6-foot-5, 310-pound of­
fensivn line coach Charlie Davis. fensive lineman from Michigan 
Mandarich missed all of the State had been seeking nearly 
Packers' training camp. lie $2 million a year, but recently 
spent the time in weight train­said he was reducing his de­
ing and doing a little boxing. mand to between $1.4 million 
The boxing was just for fun. and $1.5 million. 
"We have agreed on the num­The latest offer by the 
bers but we have not agreed on Packers was reported to be a 
the terminology and how the four-year deal worth about 
money will be paid," said Torn $3.85 million, for an annual 
Braatz, tlw Packers vice presi­salary of $962,500. 
dent of football operations. At nearly $1.1 million a year, 
Braatz said Mandarich's Mandarieh would become one 
agent. Vern Sharbaugh. was of the highest paid offensive 
traveling to Green Bay to com­lineman in the NFL. 
plete the contract, which is ex­Paul Gruber, an offensive 
pected to be signed by tackle drafted in the first round 
Wednesday. The agreement in 1988 by Tampa Bay, signed a 
would end Mandarich's 45-day five-year deal worth $3.8 mil­
holdout. lion, or $760,000 per year. 
Giamatti showed the signs of his illness, doctor says 
Associated Press experience with in 50 years as a 
doctor. lie is senior attending 
NEW YOHK-The doctor was surgeon at Memorial Sloan horrified by what he saw on the Kettering Cancer Center. giant television screen. It was Cahan contacted Dr. Hobby only a 1 0-second glimpse but it Brown, the American League was enough for him to say. president and a cardiologist. "Giamatti's dying." and they agreed Cahan would 
Twelve days later, and a day send a letter to Brown after being told of the doctor's suggesting he urge Giamatti to warning, baseball get a chest X-ray and to quit commissioner A. Bartlett smoking. Giarnatti died of a heart attack. Brown relayed the warning 
What Dr. William G. Cahan last Thursday. "He smiled that saw during a telecast of a smile and told me it sounded Dodgers-Mets game was a like a good idea," Brown was telltale sign on Giamatti's right quoted as saying by sports hand that could indicate a columnist Mike Lupica of the serious health problem. It is New York Daily News. called clubbing of the The next day, Giamatti fingernails. suffered a fatal heart attack at 
As Cahan watched on his 45-his summer home on Martha's inch screen, the camera zoomed Vineyard. He was 51. in for a closeup of Giamatti at Lupica asked Cahan if 
the game on Aug. 20 at Shea Giamatti might have been saved 
Stadium. The commissioner, a by a chest examination. chain-smoker, brought a "I don't know," the doctor cigarette to his lips, and that said. "We've all heard about disturbed Cahan, who is a lung the guy leaving the doctor's cancer specialist. Then, he saw office and going horne and 
Giarnatti's fingers. The having a heart attack. I want to fingernails were curved up think it might have saved him. from the sides and the front, But I just don't know." where the nail joins the cuticle, Lung disease is just one area the result of expansion of tho where clubbing of the first joint in the finger. fingernails can be an early sign 
"Giarnatti's dying," Cahan that something is wrong, said was to tell a friend. Dr. Mark Lavietes, 
Among the diseases pulmonulogist and an associate associated with clubbing of the professor of medicine at the fingernails are lung cancer and University of Medicine and emphysema, both of which Dentistry of New Jersey Cahan has had extensive Newark. 
Happy:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:··-·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.
::::::::;:::~:;:::::::~: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:::::;::_:::::: 
Birthday '""'i"''Ititt 
tr,,,,,,,,,:, 

, , 'mtrPoopsie! 
Wednesday, September 6, 1989
The Observer 


AP Photo 
Chris Evert bowed out of the tennis world with a straight-set loss to Zina Garrison in the U.S. Oper. Although she will compete in the Federation Cup in Tokyo next month, Evert's tournament career ended Tuesday. 
Garrison's win ends Evert's reign 
Associated Press courtside seat and got her Garrison. 25, tempernd IH~r equipment together as the fans servo-and-volley style NEW YORK -Goodbye, gave her a standing ovation. somewhat, but won most of her Chrissie. It's been great. Finally, Evert stood. her big points by coming to the net. 
Chris Evert's illustrious tennis bag over her shoulder, She broke Evert in the career ended Tuesday in the and waved once to the crowd. third game of the second set, quarterfinals of the U.S. Open, As the fans roared, she walked but Evert broke right back. beaten by Zina Garrison, 7-6, to Garrison, they hugged, and Despite the urging of the 6-2. The classy master of the walked off together. 20,901 fans not wishing to see two-handed backhand, with "I felt really sad," Garrison a star extinguished, Evert was peerless baseline groundstrokes said. "I knew I was beating a broken again in the fifth and and a nearly stoic on-court champion we will never get to sevnnth games and Garrison demeanor, is leaving the tennis see again. servnd out the match. tour. "When match point was over, Evert will represent the 
The end, at the tournament I sat down and a tear carne to United States in thn Fedf'ration where she first made her mark my eye." Cup at Tokyo next month. She by reaching the semifinals as a Earlier in the tournament, might play in some otl.nr tour­1 6-year-old in 1971, was not a Evert became the first player namnnts in the future, but hnr surprise. Garrison, seeded fifth, with 100 victories in the Opnn. career on tour is over. is ranked just behind Evert and When she routed 12th-seedPd "If I want to go play in a 
beat Martina Navratilova in the Monica Seles 6-0, 6-2 in the tournament in Stuttgart, I same round last year. The quarterfinals for her 101st win, will," she said. "This is my last crowd clearly was on the 34-it seemed the six-time Open major tournament." year-old Evert's side. But time champion was peaking for a no longer is. last hurrah. 
Evert rwver nxpected to win 
Evert's final shot at a major 
But Garrison, storming back this Open after devoting so event -she won 18 of them from a 2-5 hole in the first set, little of her time to tennis this
-was a forehand return of serve crashed the party. She won year.into the net. She shook hands four straight games, then took "I wanted to make a goodwith Garrison, walked to her the tie-breaker 7-1. 
showing and enjoy it," she said. 

Wednesday, September 6, 1989 The Observer page 15 THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 

CROSSWORD 
C11MKl Chronicle FAiurn 

Dlllribu!Ml by Unl"rul Pr... Syndlc8ht 

ACROSS 28 Treat wood 49 Oahu garlands 30 Pallid 50 LL.B. holder 
1 Smelting refuse 33 Real 52 Singer Farrell 
5 Buffalo hockey player 35 Ending for east 55 Tactic used 1n 1().Churlish child 
or west some campaigns
36 Fibula or ulna 59 Memorable14 Sw1ss-cheese 
feature 37--down 
bandleader
(resign) 61 Concept15 Skull part 
38 Day's march 62 Watch over 16 Body of 
knowledge 40 Entreat 63 Marner of 
17 Israeli 41 Body of an Raveloe
statesman organism 64 Muse of history 
18 Famed 42 "-longa, vita 
trumpeter brevis" 65 Mine finds 
66 He played
20--George 
43 Moved obliquely Gobel Judge Hardy 
45 Printers' 22 --corpus 
67 "-hath no
measures 

fury. " 23 Hawai1an wind 
46"Biue-," 24 Slips up Berlin song 25 Scott1sh 48 In a strange DOWN landowner manner 
1 Gram my w1nner Silverstein 2"Rio-,"
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Wayne film 3 Astronaut Bean ll·l~ 
4 Memorable 
21 Kind of cracker 32 Impoverished 52 This: Sp.
drummer or fountain 
34 Sieve quality 53 Road, to 24 OK Corral figure Romulus 5 Garfunkel's 
partner, once 36 Memorable 25 Track star Viren 54 Kegler's arena
drummer 26 Lord-, 55 WW. II French 
6 Las-, Colo. 
7 Choler 39 Speaker of 
MENUS English historian battle s1te
Hubbard, Tex.
a Cav1ar, e.g. 
27 Gossip morsels 56 Unoccupied
44 Tittle9 Cherishes 
Notre Dame 
Saint Mary's 29 Ride 57 Diamond or
46 Search for Sed aka li(l~$··· 10 Spills the beans 30 "We Are the 
Bourbon Baked Ham II! 11 Wander 47 Tutuila citizen 
Beef Tostada -," 1985 58 "The Ballad of Veal Parmesian Grinder Spinach Crepes ~=+=-+=-! 12 Song for Aprile song 49 Gives Reading-": Veggie-Rice Casserole Millo temporarily Wilde
Chicken Paprika 31 -Martin, Jim Deli Bar -=+:::...t:-+:::-i 13 Actress Harper Rockford 51 Pluperfect, for 60 Coli. basketball .,;:;,.&,;:..L.::.~ 19 Mend sidekick one contest 

"Now stay calm ... Let's hear what they said to Bill." 
COMICS 
BILL WATTERSON  
W\11>.1 DID ~t. SUPREME ctYJRJ  I'M Ol'll~  \-\ERE B£.0.\JS'i:: M~  ~  S\G\-\\.1~\.\4<  
DECIDE A~IJT 11-li>,\;. \':> 1\.1\5  Pf:>.R~l'lll;  Mil-K£ I'll.£ <;a .'  t  I  CAl'\'I Bt.L\t.Vt.  
A PRA~ER?  \)()1'{'\ ~0\l \.11-.\/E  ~T Wf:>J'{i m Bt: f>... TE.S\  liS "OT t.~EN  
RE,I.,\) ME M~ RIG\.1\S? I \Xlt·(t  CJ.S£ .'  I  ~'I £~1'1 Kt{QW  8:\5 '1.£.1.  
KEEP \lP W\1~ nus Si\JFF'  W\-\~1  G:lilR\ \l\'3\R\a t!o\ \1'1!  
I'!'<\ ..1\JSI ~>, \<.\\).'  ~ \  ~  C~\1. 00 '3JM£0Nt:. E.l'3E!  
"  '-',r '\{  
.~  '  ~  
BUZZ MC FLATTOP  MICHAEL F. MULDOON  
--The Observer  - -5£NP ~ ~$i$S 70: 7}16. C6SER.V~  
KIDNAPPED!  P.o. 8oX 6? /lrnJ: F1AJP BVZZ!  
tfFLAITOP~ ft.MUCT£0 0  !Wr~ P/fMEJ IN 'lb~56  
il~~  BYocr6~  
REWARD OFFERED ~ aa:=-o ~~~~  Flll.S-r:~-,-tia~ {IJ!TJ.{~.117tW) 4}/N_S i£JJ ~llXJA,~!!  

Notre Dame-Michigan Football Ticket Lottery 
' Sign -ups at the SUB secretary office 

THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 
D1Siributecl by Universal Press Syodteale 


until Friday. 2nd Floor LaFortune, 1 :00 -4:00 p.m. i!il Student ID required. 
-~-­
Sports 

Wednesday, September 6, 1989
page 16 

Irish soccer battles MCC foe Detroit 
By KEN TYSIAC 6-0 shellacking in the MCC ship athletes and a lot of tal­Sports Writer tournament. ent," says Grace, "It would Junior forward Pete make their season to beat 
The Notre Dame Men's Tangalos, who set Detroit Notre Dame, so they'll be ready Soccer team travels to the records for goals (9) and for this one." University of Detroit today in points (22) last season, will Irish co-captain Rolfe Behrje hopes of winning for the first lead the Titans' quest for their says today's game is crucial to time this season. first victory of the season. the Irish as well. "It's im­
If the Irish beat their MCC ri­Detroit lost their first game of portant for us (to beat Detroit) vals from the Motor City, they the season last Sunday against in order to get a winning atti­will secure a 1OOth collegiate DePaul. tude going," he says. win for Dennis Grace, who is Goalie Don Koontz, who "We're going to have to come 
99-58-15 while coaching in the started 17 games last year, will together and win as a team." college ranks. attempt to build on his prede­Behrje continues, "We're not 
The outlook for today's 3:00 cessors' tendencies to frustrate going to win by having one per­game is promising for the boys the Irish in the goal-scoring son skate around people. in blue and gold. The Irish beat department. Notre Dame has Instead we're going to have to the Titans twice last season, yet to score a goal this season. the second victory coming in a "Detroit has seven scholar-see SOCCER/ page 11 
Waller jumps to European volleyball 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

What does a Notre Dame graduate with a marketing de­gree do when faced with the harsh realities of the real world? 
Well, if you happen to be a 6 '1 middle blocker who has etched her name into the Irish record books as the all-time leader in service aces, total blocks, block solos and assists while leading the Notre Dame women's volleyball team to an NCM bid and its highest NCM ranking ever, perhaps the world of professional volleyball is more alluring than a nine-to­five job in a marketing firm. 
The otTer is even more entic­ing when it comes from over­seas-something that Danny Ferry himself couldn't resist. 
Mary Kay Waller began re­ceiving inquiries about playing volleyball in Europe before even 
The Observer 1File Photo
turning the tassel on her mor­
Former Irish volleyball standout Mary Kay Waller has joined the ranks
tarboard in May and left 
of the professional athletes as she is playing in Europe with a French
Sunday to join the ranks of 
team.

former Irish athletes in the world of professional sports. if Waller decides to click her cess of $60,000 a year and may 
Four teams were vying for heels three times and take the only have to endure three to Waller's skills, but when the second half of her free round­four practices a week in addi­French A League-the Division trip airplane ticket back to tion to games to collect their I of French professional volley­Kansas, a year of professional booty. ball-offered Waller a com­volleyball in France may earn Waller may have been de­fortable salary, a car, an her a chance at playing on the prived of her All-American sta­apartment and free meals, it United States national team or tus by clerical errors here in didn't take long for the allow her to get a higher paying the United States, but if she Lawrence, Kan. native to join job in the lucrative Italian vol­makes the impact Irish head the European ranks. leyball league. coach Art Lambert expects, 
With a yearly contract re­Some of the top players in newed on an annual basis, even the Italian A League earn in ex-see WALLER I page 12 

Ticket Sale Information 

Juniors: Today Sophomores: Sept. 7 Freshmen: Sept. 8 
Sales begin at 1:30 p.m. 
The Observer 
Fifty-yard line mania. strikes ND seniors; juniors await their turn 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 

Despite a chorus of com­plaints from frustrated seniors, 
the first student football tick­ets were distributed for the 102nd season of Notre Dame football. Amidst suggestions by students of fellow students jumping in line, day one of ticket distributions carried on without any major hitches. 
"I commend the students on their behavior," said Bubba Cunningham, Director of Promotions. "Overall the lines were well handled and the area was well-kept. They were a good crowd." 
The only controversy of the day centered around the moving of the lines at approximately noon. At that time Tom Rask of the Obudsman, which monitored the behavior of the lines, moved the first group of students into position to pur­chase tickets. This prompted some students to jockey for better positioning and coinci­dentally irritated those in the front of the line including the first man in line, Pangborn res­ident Doug Pritchett. 
"The line was a mess, "proclaimed Pritchett. "People were pushing to get up to the front of the line. The line be­came short and fat. It was a lot like last year's Keenan Heview ticket line when everyono rushed the door." 
llow1wer, Cunningham dis­missed these complaints. 
"Not anything too bad,"said Cunningham. "When I was down there, I spoke to crowd control and it was not a big problem. No moro than twenty people changed places. Eighty percent of the people who were in front got section 28. Jim Bell( Assoeiate Ticket Manager ) spoke to students and asked if there were any questions or problems. No one ha~ come to my office with a problem. Alumni would kill to get in sec­tion 29. If they (seniors) are worried about a three row dif­ferenee they should wait 'till next year when they try to get tickets as alumni." 
Kelley Tuthill contributed to this story. 
This year, it's the defense that has to dominate 
Following an early-season win over Michigan State last year, Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz warned that his team would need to average over 200 passing yards a game to become a national contender. 
"We can't even think about being a complete football team until we prove we can throw the ball." Holtz predicted. 
Although the Irish did not average anything close to those types of numbers through the air, an improvnd passing game was one key to the 1988 na­tional championship. 
After last week's 36-13 Kickoff Classic rout of Virginia. lloltz issued a similar warning to a differ­ent area of the team. 
"We're not going to become a good football team until we become dominant on defense," said the al­ways-concerned Iloltz. 
The thousands of fans who turned off their televi­sion sets at halftime last Thursday might want to argue tbat the Irish defense looks downright intimi­dating. A defense can't fare too much better than Notre Dame's first-string unit did in the first half­allowing no points and just 60 net yards of total of­fense. 
"Our first team played okay," said junior nose tackle Chris Zorich, "but we need help from our sec­ond-team guys." 
It was the shaky play of the second-string defense, which led to two Virginia touchdowns, that left Notre Dame coaches concerned. Even though the contest was long since decided by the time Virginia reached the end zone, the second-unit defense could not escape criticism. 
Steve Megargee 
. '
Irish Items 
n 

"We weren't pleased with the way they played," said assistant head coach Barry Alvarez. "There was a lack of concentration and intensity." 
A lack of experience also. Since the Irish lost three defensive starters in August, a number of true freshmen have moved up to second on the Notre Dame depth chart. 
"A lot of them are very young," said Alvarez, last year's defensive coordinator. "Some of them had their first plane trip last week." 
Unfamiliar names like defensive end Karl McGill (from Clearwater, Fla.) and Shawn Smith (Minotola, N.J.), tackles .Junior Bryant (Omaha, Neb.) and Erie Jones (Portage, Ind.) and linebacker Nick Smith (Cincinnati) each have been ranked second on the Irish depth chart at one time or another. All of thPm are wearing a college uniform for the first time this fall. 
Nonetheless, the reserve defenders appear to have made strides in practices early this week. 
"We had a really good practice (Monday)," Alvarez said. "I think they're improving. They're picking up things really well." 
The learning experience of Virginia just might end up helping the underclassmen, if only for the extra practices they received to prepare for the Aug. 31 game. 
"The length of two-a-days allowed them more ex­perience to get to this level," said Alvarez. "If we'd started practice two weeks ago, they just wouldn't have had enough time." 
And the starters on defense seem willing to make sure there is continued improvement from the un­derclassmen. 
"I promise we're never going to play like we did in the second half of the Kickoff Classic ever again," said starting nose tackle Chris Zorich. 


