
VOL. XXIII NO. 35 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Group of 8 presidents band against drugs 
Associated Press coca-producing Andean nations of Colombia, Peru and Bolivia 
ICA, Peru-Seven Latin in their battle against the re­American presidents pledged gion's cocaine cartels. The Thursday to fight international three nations produce nearly all drug trafficking and con­of the world's cocaine. demned the regime of Gen. "The elimination of these ac­Manuel Antonio Noriega of tivities requires an integral fo­Panama. cus, the coordination between 
In a declaration issued at the producing countries and con­end of a two-day summit, the suming countries, and the elab­Group of Eight presidents also oration of special proposals," urged that Cuba be re-admitted the declaration said. to the Organization of Ameri­It did not specifically mention 
can States. It did not elaborate. U.S. drug policy, but the presi­
The OAS expelled Cuba in dents said repeatedly during 1961 after accusing Fidel Cas­the meeting that President tro of openly exporting revolu­Bush's emphasis on using police tion. The communique issued by and the military to stop cocaine the Latin American presidents smuggling in the Andean 
marked the first formal sug­countries was insufficient to gestion that Cuba be allowed to halt the drug traffic. rejoin the group. "We won't get anywhere 
The "Declaration of lea" was putting the brakes on produc­issued by presidents Carlos tion of the raw material in Menem of Argentina, Alan Gar­countries like Peru, Colombia
The Observer/Trey Reymond 

The golden arch 
cia of Peru, Carlos Salinas de and Bolivia if the United States Gortari of Mexico, Carlos An­does not provide help and re­
Helen Read and Ann Puetz take a leisurely stroll under the arch at Lyons Hall on an Indian summer 
dres Perez of Venezuela, Vir­sources for substituting this
afternoon. 
gilio Barco of Colombia, Jose type of product in the produc­Sarney of Brazil and Julio San­ing countries," Menem said at a guinetti of Uruguay after the news conference earlier Thurs­
Quality in engineering subject of lecture 
meeting in this remote desert day. city 180 miles southeast of In his welcoming address, By MONICA YANT "Academia will create a voice Japanese industrial counter­Lima. Garcia said: "The origin of this News Copy Editor to say that we, as a resource of parts. While an American au­The communique expressed problem is in the demand in the 
this country, have a large part tomobile manufacturer might the presidents' regret over "the large industrialized nations." 
Academic institutions need to to play in changing (the qual­spend 10 years on just one car, violation of human rights and Perez was even stronger in implement changes in engineer­ity)," he said. the Japanese can produce top­the absence of democracy" in his criticism of the focus of ing curricula to emphasize the Guzzi represents the Air quality automobiles in just 40 Panama and said they would Bush's strategy, which provides 
quality methods behind tech­Force's Reliability and Main­months, he said. ask the OAS to send a commis­for $261 million in aid, mainly nology, said Air Force Major tainability 2000 program Guzzi believes college gradu­sion to that nation to investi­in the form of helicopters and James Guzzi. (R&M), designed to involve in­ates represent the future lead­gate. weapons, to Colombia, Peru Total quality management is dustry, government, and ers of the country's quality rev­The presidents said Panama and Bolivia. necessary to initiate change in academia to maximize perfor­olution. At present, "We have a would remain suspended from "The more demand grows in American industry, he said. mance of the highest quality. lot of managers, but very few the Group of Eight, formed two the North, the more production 
In his lecture, "American This includes cost-cutting and leaders," he said. years ago as a regional will grow in the South. Police Technology Can Be Competi­product improvements, he said. Quality management needs consulting organization, until it actions will be useless unless tive," Guzzi stressed the con­"Quality equals productivity, those who can be both man­"respects once again the demo­demand is reduced," Perez said 
cept of quality management which equals competitiveness, agers and leaders. cratic guarantees that today Wednesday. and how it relates to the engi­which equals a strong country," R&M focuses on manage· are absolutely ignored." Garcia, Barco and President neering community. Guzzi said. ment's role of keeping indus­Noriega foiled a coup attempt Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia 
The quality of organization, Without competitiveness, the trial and quality objectives on last week. met here Tuesday before the combined with technical United States will be "left out in target. Without quality man-The declaration also said the beginning of the Group of Eight prowess, creates a total quality the cold," said Guzzi, referring presidents will use "all re­gathering and agreed to invite 
environment. to the phenomenal success of see QUALITY I page 7 sources available" to help the Bush to a drug summit. 
'Hoosier Millionaire' ticket sale kicks-off Indiana lottery 
Associated Press Lottery managers expect to ''I'm not that much of a lot­sell the 75 million tickets tery person," he said Thursday. 
INDIANAPOLIS-Indiana gets ordered for the first game ''I'm too cheap maybe. I'd back into the lottery game Fri­within six to eight weeks and rather control my odds than day after sitting on the sidelines have projected first-day sales take someone else's." for over a century. could go up to 5 million. Borst said he worked for a 
The first instant-winner, Crawford said he expects up lottery because his constituents scratch-off tickets of the to 60 percent of Hoosier adults wanted it and because it helped "Hoosier Millionaire" game go to play the game in its first pave the way for pari-mutuel on sale at 12:10 p.m. EST at weeks. wagering on horse racing. about 6,600 retail outlets, But as lottery officials have Borst got pari-mutuel legisla­marking the first time since the tried to drum up enthusiasm by tion through the General state's infancy that Indiana has advertising with the slogan, Assembly in the 1970s, but the had a state-sanctioned form of "You Just Can't Hide the Ex­state Supreme Court later ruled wagering. citement," many prominent that pari-mutuel constituted a 
"It's going to be an exciting Hoosiers, including the gover­lottery and lotteries were time for its historic value," said nor and legislators who helped banned in the 1851 state Con­mutuel, both approved by the County prosecutor appointed by Hoosier Lottery Director Jack push through a lottery law, stitution. Legislature this year. Bayh to head the new game, Crawford. have said they won't play the Before that constitutional Borst's longtime co-sponsors, said recently, "I think I respect 
Indiana's lottery will be the game. provision was adopted, Indiana Democratic Sen. Louis Mahern that there's a strong conserva­32nd in the United States, fol­Democratic Gov. Evan Bayh sanctioned two lotteries. One in of Indianapolis and House Re­tive element in the state that lowing the lead of 30 other said recently, "I don't intend to 1816 was designed to raise publican Speaker Paul Man­doesn't like the lottery." states and the District of play the lottery. That's a per­money for Vincennes University nweiler of Indianapolis, also However, Crawford said he Columbia. sonal choice .... I'm a tightwad. and another in 1818 was in­said they don't plan to buy lot­hopes to win over skeptics by 
Lottery officials said Thurs­I would rather save the dollar tended to raise money for canal tery tickets. running an honest game and day that about 40 million of the or go out with Susan (his wife) projects, according to the Indi­"I have never purchased a playing on traditional Hoosier $1 tickets will be delivered to to have a meal or see a movie." ana State Library. lottery ticket, and I probably interests. Games or promotions retailers by Friday. Sales will Sen. Lawrence Borst, the In­A little more than 62 percent won't purchase one here," said using basketball and racing begin during the lunch hour as dianapolis Republican who led of Hoosier voters agreed last Mannweiler. "The odds are not themes are planned in the fu­celebrations are held in eight a decade-long fight for a lot­November to repeal the consti­in my favor. I don't think it's a •re, he said. cities to mark the beginning of tery, said he doesn't plan to tutional prohibition and clear wise investment." the game. play the game either. .the way for a lottery and pari-Crawford, the former Lake see LOTTERY I page 6 

.---------------------------------------------------------------~ ~ -­
page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 

An East German official in Berlin rejected the democratic reforms some Soviet bloc allies have embraced and said Thursday that communism will continue to dominate society. Another said the government will listen to "all parts of the population" clamor­ing for change as long as they do not insist on scrapping the cur­rent social order. 
A Pablo Picasso masterpiece from his "blue period," long thought to have disappeared, is expected to become the world's most expensive painting when sold at auction on Nov. 30, an auctioneer in Paris said Thursday. "Les Noces de Pierrette" {"Pierrette's Wedding"), executed in 1904-05 in Montmartre, is expected to bring $46 million to $61 million. 
Beneath a London parking lot, under a mulch of hazel­nuts perhaps left by snacking drama patrons, archaeologists be­lieve they have found the remains of William Shakespeare's Globe Theater Thursday. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
An Iowa farmer received $116,000 for finding a 400­pound engine disk that may hold the key to July's DC-10 crash in Sioux City, while a neighbor discovered the disk's missing part Thursday, officials in Alta, Iowa said. 
Technicians worked six at a time in a cramped engine compartment Thursday to remove a flawed computer in time to meet Cape Canaveral's Tuesday target for launching the shuttle Atlantis and its Galileo space probe. At the same time, a federal judge rejected a request by environmental groups to halt the night for fear the nuclear-powered probe could scatter plutonium over Florida if the shuttle exploded. 
The House voted overwhelming approval Thursday for a federal ban on nag burning, just four months after a Supreme Court decision allowing destruction of an American flag as political protest. However, President Bush and many Republi­cans in Washington say Congress must do more than pass a mere statute, and they have been pressing for a constitutional amend­ment to outlaw nag destruction or desecration. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
Gov. Evan Bayh announced Thursday in Indianapolis that he will ask the 1990 session of the General Assembly to endorse four new education goals, including maintaining drug and vio­lence-free schools and combating illiteracy. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
The Urban Plunge application deadline is today. Learning agreements and registration applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns or from dorm representatives. 
George Pletcher, a graduate of Notre Dame Law School, was named by Forbes Magazine as one of America's best paid trial lawyers. The 61-year-old lawyer from Houston, Texas, had an estimated income of $2 million in 1987. 
WEATHER 
-o-
Warmer ,.' 


Mostly sunny and very mild today. Highs in the middle 70s. Mostly clear and warmer tonight and Saturday. Lows tonight in the lower 50s. Highs Sat\lrday in the upper 70s. 
ALMANAC 
On October 13: 
e In 1792: The cornerstone of the executive mansion, later to bn known as the White House, was laid during a ceremony in the District of Columbia. e In 1775: The United States Navy was born as the Continen­tal Congress ordered construc­
tion of a fleet. e In 1845: Texas ratified a state constitution. e In 1943: Italy declared war on Germany, its one-time Axis 
partner. e In 1982: The International Olympic Committee announced it would restore the two gold medals taken from Jim Thorpe after he admitted having been 
paid to play baseball. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Ctoalnga for October 12, 1989 


Volume in shares 
160.12 Million 
NYSE Index 
196.98 ~ .83 
S&P Composite 


355.39 +1.60 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,759.84 +13.52 
Precious Metals Gold if $1.50 to $363.40 I oz. 
Silver+ 1.4¢ to $5.153 I oz. 
Source: AP 

tntormat•on comp1led from Observer wJTes and Observer stall reports 
The Observer Friday, October 13, 1989 



Big hair and other symbols of a superficial society 

The headline in the Indiana Daily Student read, 'Hey, hey, ho,ho, big hair has to go.' 
Intrigued, I read on. Since my own hair has often been labelled a 'mane' I wondered why David Burton of Indiana University could possi­bly be taking issue with hair like mine. 
Burton, it turns out, was "talking about those women who have so much hair piled on their heads...that they give fundamental laws of grav­ity a run for their money. Hair so vast and deep it might well be supporting an ecosystem of its own." 
"Whoever said such an abundant coiffure 
looks good?" continued Burton. 

I'm amazed that as I walk across the quad men stare after me and are turned off before I've even had a chance to offend them. 
Two possible motives exist for choosing to express oneself through such big hair, accord­ing to Burton. They are: 
1. 
That "women think more hair and more makeup cause them to be attractive to men." 

2. 
An "even more likely reason for this great preoccupation with appearance...is not competi­tion for men but a sense of competition and prestige among themselves." 


In other words, Burton continues, not merely a desire to attract men, but also for a sense of popularity among friends. 
Aside from fear that he will light a cigarette in bar one day and be blown to bits because of large amounts of aerosol in the Big Hair around him, Burton expresses genuine concern for the way women perceive their roles in society. Why, he asksi must people be concerned with appear­ances as a way to gain acceptance? 
At the end of this article, presumably to save himself from being tarred and feathered by any feminists on IU's campus, he hastily points out that he could just as easily have made his point using male body builders. 
While I don't necessarily like the way he ap­proached the subject, since it wasn't until the end of the column that I realized that he wasn't trying to offend women, but was attempting to 
'Ours is a 

materialistic culture, which tends to affect our values. ' 
Alison Cocks Production Manager 

make a point concerning an issue that affects 
many college students, I had to echo his con­
cern. Why is everyone so preoccupied with ap­
pearances? 

Yes, it's important to maintain a neat per­sonal appearance. That in itself says to some­one, "I am confident enough in myself to want to present myself in a positive manner to other people." However, people tend to take this prin­ciple too far. Not only is a neat personal ap­pearance necessary, an individual must set about it in a certain way. Style, and, I'm sorry to say, money receive a great deal of emphasis. Some individuals even embrace the philosophy, 'if it's not expensive and prestigious, it's not worth having,' and a few consider others worthless if they too cannot afford expensive status symbols. 
Whether it's manifested through big hair, ex­pensive cars, or designer labels, the problem remains the same: ours is a materialistic cul­ture, which tends to affect our values and our perceptions of ourselves and others. Material possessions, physical appearances, and other superficial attributes about a person should be kept in their superficial perspectives. The person underneath rarely has anything to do with them. 
Alison Cocks is a junior American Studies major. The views expressed are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Design ~........................Joe Zadrozny Design Assitart.. .................. Cristina Ortiz Type9BIIers ......................... Chris Zaback 
....................................................Fritz Valsainl Nsws ~............................. Kelley Tuthill 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 NswsCopyEdiDr ................Monica Yant Sports Copy Editor ...... Steve Megargee
(219) 239-7471 
V18Vp0int Editor •............. Christine Walsh Vlawpolnt Copy Editor ...Janice O'Leary Vlawpolnt Layout ............Colleen Stepan Accent Editor ............... Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ........... ,......... Liz Havel Accent Designers ...............,Alison Cocks ...................................................Brian Grunert 1'ypi9ls......................................... .WiII Zamer NO Day Editor ................Karen Balcerzak 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publ1shed Monday through Fr~day except , l"hh*lggapla......................Colin McAteer dur~ng exam and vacation periods The Observer IS published by students ot lhP Irish Extra Editor.. , .............. Theresa Kelly Un•vers1ty ol Notre Dame and Saini Mary"s College Subscnpllons may be pur Irish Extralayout..................Jeanne Blasi chased lor $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wn\lng The Observer .......................................... Catherine Danahy 
The Observer 1s a member ol The Assoc•ated Press All reproduction 11ghts CSC Sect ion Layout •........ Regis Coccia are reserved 

PREGNANT 

MOTHERS: 
PLWE DON'T SMOKE! 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY' 

Friday, October 13, 1989 The Observer page 3 
ND professor wins Walker Award 
Special to The Observer 
James Carberry, professor of chemical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been selected to receive the 1989 William H. Walker Award for Excellence in Contribution to Chemical Engineering Litera­ture. 
The award, sponsored by Monsanto Co., will be presented to Carberry at the annual meeting of the American Insti­tute of Chemical Engineers, November 6 to 10. 
A specialist in chemical reac­tion and heterogeneous cataly­sis, Carberry is the author of the text Chemical and Catalytic Reaction Engineering (MacGraw-Hill, 1976) and co­editor of Catalysis Reviews­Science and Engineering. In 1964 Carberry developed the Carberry Reactor, a swirling basket catalytic reactor now universally employed. 
In catalysis, a chemical reac­tion between two or more sub­stances is enhanced by the presence of a third substance, the catalyst, which remains un­changed in the process. The catalyst either speeds up the chemical reaction or increases the yield of the desired com­pound by keeping in check the production of nonessential products. 
Depending on the application, the scale of the catalytic reac­tion can range from the small, as in an automobile's catalytic converter, to the very large, building-sized reactors used in the oil industry. 
Earlier this year Carberry was induced into the National Academy of Engineering for his contribution to chemical reac­tion. He is also a Mellon fellow, a fellow at the Royal Society of Arts and a recently-elected life fellow at Clare Hall College at Cambridge.. 
He as earned a Fullbright se­nior scholar award and a Na­tional Science Foundation se­nior scholar fellowship, in addi­tion to other awards, and twice he has been designated a Sir Winston Churchill Fellow at the Autoclave Engineers Novel Re­actor Award, created by Auto­clave Engineers Inc. to recog­nize outstanding contributions in the area of novel laboratory reactor concepts, design and their elevation to reality. 
A native of New York City, Carberry received his under­graduate degree at Notre Dame following service in the U.S. Navy during World War II. He received his doctorate at Yale. He was a process engineer and then a senior research engineer with E.l. DuPont de Nemours Inc. for several years before he joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1961. 
Panamanian widow blames U.S. for death 


Assocatled Press 
MIAMI-The widow of the of­ficer who led the failed coup against Panama's Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega said Thursday that U.S. officials were notified of the attempt and agreed to help, then caused a fatal delay. 
Adela Bonilla de Giroldi, 36, took refuge at a U.S. base dur­ing the coup and later fled the country after her husband, Maj. Moises Giroldi, was executed by Noriega loyalists. 
On Oct. 1, two days before the coup, Mrs. Giroldi had a friend arrange a meeting with a U.S. army colonel at the friend's house to inform them and ask for help in isolating Noriega's downtown headquarters. 
"What my husband wanted was for them to overfly 
s 
Q u 



E E z E 

(Panamanian) air force bases ... so that no one could leave," she said. "And also to close off the roads" around the head­quarters. 
The colonel made arrange­ments with two civilian-clad 
U.S. officials, who then met privately with her husband, she said. After the meeting, without revealing details, her husband said everything had been agreed and that the coup would be Oct. 3, according to Mrs. Giroldi, who did not attend the meeting. 
"My husband told me they made an agreement," she said. "He told me there were no problems, we were going ahead, and that everything would turn out well." 
The U.S. officials gave him a number, she said, telling him to 

~~~~~ 
~co~~ cc ~O~#'~ 
. 


~~ ~ 
,s~\.o~ ~~-<; 

TICKETSS~\)Q 
on Sale 
8:00am Gate 10 OCTOBER17 
$8 Your NO ID can buy 6 
~Q <pO~ 
tickets. 

Roll call will be taken 
The person in line must have their own ID. After October 17, you may purchase as many tickets as you like with your ID. 
with: KATRINA &THE WAVES 
call them any time during the coup to request help. 
But during the coup, when the rebels seized temporary control of the headquarters and im­prisoned Noriega, her hus­band's ally, Capt. Javier Licona, had little success when he picked up the phone. 
"When the call was made to tell them that Capt. Licona wanted to talk to them, to re­port, they didn't believe the call," she said. "He had to go to Fort Clayton to assure them he was himself. A lot of time was lost." · 
By the time Licona reached the U.S. base and convinced them of his identity, he could no longer reach Giroldi. Nor­iega sympathizers apparently had retaken control of the headquarters. Because of the confusion, Licona survived, the highest-ranking officer to do so, and is now in hiding in the United States. 
-' "ff ~ 

~-------....afamily 

AP Photo 
''V'' is for victory 

Gene~al Manuel Noriega raises his arms in victory after an anti­Amencan speech Wednesday in which he accused the United States of maintaining a military presence in Panama in order to control the region. 
Miles, Inc. donates $2.5 million to Notre Dame 
Special to The Observer 
Miles Inc., the Elkhart­based pharmaceuticals and medicals supplies company, has donated $2.5 million to Notre Dame to support studies in science and engineering. 
In announcing the gift Wednesday, University offi­cials said the donation was the largest ever given to Notre Dame by a corpora­tion with no family ties to the school. 
The Miles Foundation, the philanthropic arm of the company, will give $1 million to endow a professorship in bioengineering, said Dr. Klaus Risse, Miles president and chief executive officer. 
The gift also includes $800,000 to endow graduate fellowships, $450,000 for undergraduate scholarships, and $250,000 discretionary fund. 


Happy 21st 
Saving

Birthday, babies is

PAUL 
our goal!

Love and Best 
Wishes, 
Mom, Dad, Jimmy, Lynne, and all the 
----------~--~--------------------------------~-------.~~-------~-----------------------------~--------~---------------~ -­page 4 The Observer Friday, October 13, 1989 

AP Photo
Electric youth 

Children play with fallen electrical wires in Manila after typhoon Dan swept through southern Luzon Thursday, killing at least 21. 
HPC-sponsored Weekend Wheels continues to run 
By PAUL PEARSON A complete schedule is News Staff available at the Student Gov­ernment Office. 
The Hall Presidents Council The name of the program provides a free weekend trans­was changed three years ago to portation service for students Weekend Wheels. under the influence of alcohol. Before that, it was known 
The program, known as as the Buzz Bus, Hanley said. Weekend Wheels, consists of a "The University didn't like that school bus that goes through name too much." South Bend for "students who Despite having very little otherwise would not be able to publicity, Hanley said that the get back to campus safely," program helps between 30 and said Megan Hanley, the co­40 people each night. chairperson of the Hall Presi­
dents' Council. This year, the HPC is trying
The bus stops at 5 different to launch a large publicity points: Campus View, Five campaign for Weekend Wheels. Points, St. Louis & Corby, Main One of the ideas they are con­Circle, and Library Circle. The sidering is making and dis­stops occur at 45-minute inter­tributing keychains with the vals on Friday and Saturday program's schedule printed on nights, starting at 12:35 a.m. them. 
Computer virus fears run rampant 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Fears that a computer virus will trash in­formation on some personal computers are overblown, ex­perts said Thursday, but some alarmed users have taken steps to make sure they don't wake up Friday the 13th with the in­fection. 
"Our advice to people is stop worrying," said Dennis Stein­auer of the National Institute of Standards and Technology. "People should make a backup copy of their files and don't call me in the morning. There's vir­tually no way it can spread around and cause any signifi­cant damage at all." 
But others feel the threat is real from the so-called Colum­bus Day virus, programmed to activate after computers' inter­nal clocks hit 12:01 a.m. Friday and begin doing its dirty work when an operator begins using an infected program. 
"We're talking about a com­municable disease that is abso­lutely indiscriminate," said Winn Schwartau, president of American Computer Security Industries in Nashville, Tenn. 

"It's not going to be Ar­mageddon today or tomorrow. But if you ignore it and you're infected, the risk is high for getting your data destroyed," Schwartau said. 
By coincidence, more than 2,000 of the nation's top com­puter security experts convened their annual meeting Thursday in Baltimore, Md. 
Few, if any, opted to stay on the job because of the virus threat, according to the spon­soring National Institute of Standards and Technology and the National Computer Security Center. 
Only a tiny fraction of the na­tion's 40 million users of per­sonal computers are expected to catch the virus, officials said at a news conference. 
"We want to send a calming message to people that if they take reasonable precautions, this virus poses no more danger than any other," said Thomas Malarkey, deputy chief of the computer service office of the federal National Computer Se­curity Center. 
A computer virus is the elec­tronic equivalent of a biological bug. It is a malevolent program designed to sneak through a computer system on infected disks or in programs copied over networks from electronic bulletin boards. 
Once activated, the rogue program eopies itself like a breeding germ, eating away processing power and storage space or even destroying infor­mation. About 30 viruses are known to exist, not counting strains and mutations. 
The Columbus Day virus, also known as Dataerime, is pro­grammed to scramble indexing information in IBM or IBM­compatible personal comput­ers. It would be the equivalent of zapping index cards in a li­brary so books would be im­possible to locate. 
The virus, of unknown origin, has been identified about 12 times since March 1, when ex­perts discovered suspicious strings of code that had at­tached themselves to programs. The confirmed eases of Colum­bus Day viruses were discov­ered before they did any real damage. A number of pro­grammers, including IBM, have developed ways to detect if a disk or program has been con­taminated. 



Four American scientists win Nobel Prizes 
Associated Press University. They showed inde­
pendently in the 1970s and 

Four American scientists re­early 1980s that RNA, then acted with delight Thursday at thought to be merely a genetic being named Nobel Prize win­messenger inside the cell, could ners for their work in physics rearrange itself and produce and chemistry, and one said it chemical reactions. was time to "go back to the lab Half the physics prize will go and do more work." to Hamsey, 74. The other half 
The physics award was given will be shared by the German­to Norman Hamsey of Harvard born Dehmelt, 67, of the Uni­University for measurement versity of Washington in Seat­techniques that led to the ce­tle, and Paul, 76, of the Univer­sium atomic clock, and to Hans sity of Bonn. Each Nobel Prize Dehmelt of the University of is worth $469,000. Washington and Wolfgang Paul "I am obviously excited about of West Germany for a method it," said Ceeh, who was visiting to isolate single atoms and Boston to receive a prize for make exacting measurements genetic work from Mas­of them. sachusetts General Hospital. 
The Nobel Prize in chemistry "It was something that every­is shared by Thomas Cech, 41, body has been telling me would of the University of Colorado, happen, but I had no way of and Sidney Altman, 50, of Yale knowing when." 
While Nobel Prize celebra­tions may be relatively common in the Boston area, Cech pointed out they are rarer elsewhere. 
"My main emotion is that this is a great thing for the Univer­sity of Colorado and the state of Colorado," he said. "This is not the sort of thing that hap­pens annually in the mountains the way it does in Boston. That gives me a really good feeling." 
Asked about his plans for the money, he said: "I have two young daughters who are very good at spending money." 
Dehmelt said he didn't mind being awakened at 4 a.m. by a caller from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences to be told of the award. 

Friday the 13th Is Your Lucky Day! 
Smile••. 

frozenyoe:urt

thattasteSlike
•

1cecream. 

©fRU~W [Q)~W ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION 
All Toppings & Waffle Cones 
13¢ each Friday Only 

e Raffle Drawings eln Store Specials all weekend eFree Student Discount Cards eFree Samples of the Finest Gourmet Yogurt in Town 
I Can't Believe It's YOGURT! 1635 Edison Rd. South Bend, Indiana 46637 219-271-9540 
GJ..IA! !ASH -IIIA!'UIALLY. 2 blocks East of N.D. stadium 



Estimated Amount Volume Recycled 125,000 cans during first six 
weeks. 








spenc~ 
~~ 
Friday, October 13, 1989 The Observer 

Shop Spencer Gifts, America's Halloween Headquarters featuring our exclusive FRIGHT STUFF Halloween line of masks, costumes, make-up and novelty accessories. 
STOP IN AND ASK FOR OUR FREE 1989 FRIGHT STUFF FULL COLOR BROCHURE. 
page 5 

121 sailors arrested in U.S./British brawl 
Associated Press had to be hospitalized for in­juries such as damaged spleens 
LISBON, Portugal-A bar or possible concussions. fight exploded into a brawling Williams said the brawl was rampage involving hundreds of being investigated but that American and British seamen there were several versions of that left cars overturned, win-what he called "a very confused dows smashed and more than situation." 100 people injured, police said Portuguese police said four Thursday. police officers and three civil-
Police said they arrested 121 ians were among the injured. 
U.S. and British sailors after Paulino Cardoso, duty officer an estimated 500 seamen and at Lisbon's security police, said scores of police brawled the melee broke out after three Wednesday night along Lisbon's black American seamen at­seedy, bar-dotted dockside. tacked a white U.S. sailor at 
The sailors were released to the Passport Bar in the gaudy, their ships Thursday morning neon-lighted Cais do Sodre and a British aircraft carrier area. That account could not be cut short a courtesy call and confirmed. left for home because of the A Pentagon official who fighting. asked not to be identified said 
U.S. Embassy officials in-the injured included officers, a sisted that most if not all in-chaplain and intelligence offi­juries were caused by police. cers who were trying to calm a Portuguese police said sailors confrontation that arose when fought among themselves, then police tried to clear an area of turned on officers trying to sailors following some type of break up the melees. disturbance. 
In Washington, Pentagon The official said there were spokesman Pete Williams said reports that indicated police 142 U.S. sailors were treated were responsible for "severe for injuries. He said 40 sailors indiscriminate beatings." 
.-------------~
Recycling Update 


NOTRE DAME 

[{j'jZd!Z.'li.·V?/1 

Waste Systems, would congratulate students, and staff on their suc:ce:ssl stages of the program. 

The university, in six weeks, recycled over 72,000 aluminum cans, an accomplishment you should all be proud of. 
bar graph below will show September's results. 
AMERICA'S HALLOWEEN HEADQUARTERS SUPERIOR WASTE SYSTEMS A Waste Management Company 
Scottsdale Mall (219) 291-4563 
University Park (219) 272-5705 
Concord Mall (219) 875-8032 
The Orchards (616) 925-8420 ••••••••••••••• 
Visa • Mastercard • Discover • American ss 
Friday, October 13, 1989
page 6 The Observer 
Smoking habits in 



U.S. decline slowly 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA-The rate of smoking among Amerieans continues to dedine slowly but steadily, but the nation isn't likely to reaeh a federal goal of 75 percent non-smokers by next year. fedPral health offi­cials said Thursday. 
A faec-to-face survey of adult Anwrir.ans, condueted in I 987, shows that 28.8 percent arc ci­garette smokers, thP national Centers for Disease Control re­ported. 
That's down from 30.1 per­cent in a similar 1985 survey, but the deeline is apparently not enough for government re­searehers to project meeting the official federal goal of less than 25 percent by 1990. 
"We're getting pretty close," said Dr. Hon Davis, director of the CDC's Office of Smoking and Health. "We're making progress, and we're heading in the right direction." 
CDC officials believed two years ago that the 1990 goal ­one of several federal health targets set as this decade be­gan -could be reaehed, partly because of a 1986 survey showing a national smoking rate of 26.5 percent. 
But that survey, conducted by telephone, probably wasn't as precise as the face-to-face sur­vey reported Thursday, Davis said. 
The CDC said Thursday that smoking rates continue to fall by a steady half percentage point a year as they've done since 1964 -the year of the 
Lottery 
continued from page 1 
Crawford said lottery officials 

will also remind Hoosiers that 
money spent on tickets helps 
the state. Most of the lottery 
profits, expeeted to exceed 
$200 million during the state's 
current two-year budget period, 
will go into the Build Indiana 
Fund to pay for capital im­
provement projects for state 
and local governments. 
A portion of the proceeds will 

go to retirement funds for 
sehool teaehers, poliee and fire­
lighters. 
"The sole justification (for 

Tobacco Use by Age 
Cigarettes (all adults) IIIIIIIMen 

SourCB: Centers lor Disease Control AP Graphic 

surgeon general's landmark 
warning that smoking causes 
cancer and heart disease. At 
that time, 40 percent of the 
country's adults smoked. 

The number of Americans 
who smoke will continue to 
drop, possibly until just a small 
"hard-core" band of smokers 
is left, Davis predicted. 

"So far, we haven't seen any 
evidence of a leveling ofT (in 
smoking's decline)," he said. 

"We need to intensify our ef­forts. ... Smokers tomorrow may be more resistant to our message than smokers today," Davis said. "We still have al­most 400,000 Americans dying every year because of smoking­related disease. 
the lottery) is the revenue that will be generated and the good that can come to the public as a result of that revenue," said Bayh. 
About 50 percent of the money wagered will be returned to ticket buyers in prizes. The scratch-off tickets offer prizes of $1, $2, $5, $10, $25, $500 and $5,000. The odds for win­ning some kind of prize are 1 in 7.17. 
For every million tickets sold, one contestant will be selected to compete for a top prize of $1 million on the weekly lottery television show scheduled to debut Oct. 28. 


SWEATER SALE 
100°/o WOOL-HANDMADE IMPORTED FROM GREECE 
October 9-13, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 108 LaFortune Student Center 
CORINTHIAN TRADING COMPANY 

·~ 
AP Photo 

A five-story, eight-ton replica of the Great Sphinx of Egypt slides past the Statue of Liberty in New York harbor Wednesday as it was being towed upstream. The sphinx will be a centerpiece in the production of the opera "Aida," to take place in Giant Stadium next year. 


Korean's attack ambassador's house 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea-Hadi­cal students armed with fire­bombs and tear gas broke into 
U.S. Ambassador Donald Gregg's residence early Friday before riot police dragged them out about a half-hour later, of­ficials said. 
Gregg and his wife were not injured in the attack. 
Police said six male students belonging to an "anti-U.S. death squad" scaled the walls of Gregg's residential com­pound about one mile from the 
U.S. 
Embassy and hurled tear gas at guards who tried to stop them from rushing the home. 

U.S. 
officials said the attack­ers diverted police guards by setting off "homemade lire­cracker-like noise bombs" and, once inside, ransacked the liv­


ing room, smashing pottery and artwork. 
The students, who locked themselves inside the building, held off riot police for 30 min­utes before troops firing tear gas smashed down a door and seized them, police said. 
"Drive out the Yankees!" the students screamed as police hustled them away. 
At New Jersey's Newark In­ternational Airport, where President Bush was boarding a plane to return to Washington after a day of eampaign ap­pearances, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters Bush "just asked if they (the Greggs) were safe and I assured him they were." 
"I wouldn't expect it to have any impact on relations be­tween the countries," Fitzwater said. 

A statement by the State De­partment in Washington said Foreign Minister Ho .Joon Choi "phoned the ambassador to express his eoncern and sympa­thy." 
Gregg and his wife, Meg, said at a news eonferenee they were in bed about 6:30 a.m. when they heard a blast and a guard warned them by telephone that intruders had ent1~red the com­pound. 
The Greggs said they heard the intruders on the oth1~r side of their locked bedroom door, but were able to escape the house by another entranee and avoid an em~ounter with the students. 
The ambassador said the in­cident would have no impaet on U.S.-South Korean relations and that the students repre­sented a voeal minority. 

Friday, October 13 at  6:30 pm  
in the Blue Room at  North  
Dining  Hall  
(North End)  

Chinese Meal and Father Hesburgh's Reflections on China Father Theodore Hesburgh will speak about his experiences in US-Chinese Relations. *Attendance at this function is limited. Reservations for the dinner must be obtained from the Student Government Secretary on the 2nd Floor of the LaFortune Student Center. Those without a meal plan should prepare to pay $6.50 at the door. 
~~ 
AQWQRKS 


AP Photo 
Choosing to smile 

Pro-choice advocate and House Health Care Committee Chairper­son Elaine Gordon, D-North Miami, celebrates with supporters after Florida's special session of the legislature ended Wednes­
-day without taking up any abortion related bills. 


-Ihe _Qbset:Ver­
= 

is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Day Editors 
For information, please contact Erin O'Neill at 239-5303 or 283-4215 
SHOP ~ DINE•••ONTHE 
EAST ...-.... 

~ ~BANK 
PRIME RIB • SEAFOOD/ ) 234-9000 -~ -Ji±lj,H++=.-... 




W:he JIDlole :Mole 
FOR GIFTS THAT EXPRESS YOUR GOOD TASTE 
Art Gla.u Brass Crystal lkcorDtive Accessories V.coys Dolls Kol<idoscopa Music Boxes 
Prints & Uthotraphs L<llftll:l< Papuwcithts Soap~ • Lotions Silk F/ow<n Shampoos • Potpourri Sworovskl Cryslal Gourm<l Foods & Candies 
Free Giftwrapping ..... We Ship Anywhere.....VISA, MASTERCARD Ill S. Niles, Downtown South Bend Telephone (21'lj232-8488 Monday· Saturday 10;00 • 9:00 Sunday 1:00 • ':00 
Friday, October 13, 1989 
The Observer page 7 
Bishops speak on AIDS and sex 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The U.S. Ro­man Catholic Church should drop its qualified support for teaching about condoms in public schools as a way of pre­venting AIDS, and should urge that youngsters be taught chastity instead, a committee of bishops said Thursday. 
"There is no such thing as safe, or safer, sex. That's an il­lusion," said Archbishop Roger Mahony of Los Angeles, chair­man of the Ad Hoc Committee on the HIV Statement. HIV is the virus that causes AIDS. 
The committee's draft state­ment, which was criticized by an AIDS activist who said keeping information from chil­dren would be "abandoning them to death," revises an ear­lier document released by the church's 50-member Adminis­trative Board in December 1987. 
The 1987 document said the church could tolerate public schools' providing information about condoms as long as sex­ual abstinence outside of mar­riage was presented as the "only morally correct and med­ically sure way" to prevent AIDS. 
After it was released, it was criticized by some conservative 
U.S. bishops who said it would be misinterpreted as condoning sex outside marriage and arti­ficial birth control. Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, head of the Vatican Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, also chastised the administrative board for not consulting with the Vatican. 
In spring 1988, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops decided to draw up a new statement. 
The revised statement ­"Called to Compassion: A Re­sponse to the HIV-AIDS Crisis" -will be presented to the con­ference at its fall meeting Nov. 6-9 in Baltimore. The commit­tee drafting the statement was made up of Mahony, Cardinal Joseph L. Bernardin of Chicago, Cardinal Bernard F. Law of Boston, Archbishop William H. Keeler of Baltimore and Bishop Raymod W. Lessard of Savan­nah, Ga. 
The wide-ranging statement also opposes universal manda­tory AIDS testing, calls for in­creasing federal funds for AIDS research, and denounces vio­lence and discrimination against AIDS victims as im­moral. 
"We are called to be a people of compassion, after the teach­ings of Jesus," Mahony said. 
Richard McCormick, a pro­fessor of Christian ethics at the University of Notre Dame, said the new document "may well be an attempt to achieve some kind of political peace within the (bishops') conference." 
McCormick said telling stu­dents who refuse to be sexually inactive to use condoms to try to save lives is not an invitation to immoral behavior, any more than telling students not to drive drunk is an invitation to insobriety. Where the new statement dif­fers from the earlier document, titled "The Many Faces of AIDS: A Gospel Response," is mainly in its stand on condom education in public schools, and in a larger sense the role of Catholic bishops in public policy debates. 
The first document ap­proached condom education as the lesser of two evils in reduc­ing the risk of AIDS in students who are unlikely to remain chaste. It said the bishops did not approve of condom use but were willing to join with others in a society of diverse religious beliefs in a dialogue on how sexuality "might be communi­cated in our public schools and elsewhere." 
Bishop William A. Hughes of Covington, Ky., chairman of the task force that drew up the original statement, said at the time: "We're offering to work with members of other faiths and people of good will on moral values that we can make part of the presentation (on AIDS)." 
Hughes was not available Thursday afternoon to respond to the new report, his office said. 
SECURITY BEAT 
TUESDAY, OCT.10 
1:36 p.m. A resident of Dillon Hall reported the theft of his back pack and contents from the lobby of the South Dining Hall sometime be­tween 12:10 and 12:40 p.m. His loss is estimated to be $75.00. 
4 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident re­ported the theft of his unlocked bi­cycle from the front of Flanner Hall. The theft occurred on 9/10. The victim's loss is estimated to be $80.00. 
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 11 
4:45 p.m. A resident of Fisher Hall reported the theft of his locked bi­cycle from the bike rack between Fisher and South Dining Hall. The theft occurred sometime between 1 0/10 and 1 0/11. The victim's loss is estimated at $325.00. 
9:55 p.m. Notre Dame Security chased and apprehended a South Bend youth after he allegedly at­tempted to steal two bicycles from the campus. 
10:45 p.m. A Michigan resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for Operating on Expired Licensed Plates. The defendant had been driving on Notre Dame Avenue. 
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYLING FOR 
Cooler Rental Free Delivery 
For Same Day Service Call 674-9992 
before 10:00 AM Monday through Friday 

Quality 
continued from page 1 agement, Guzzi said, technical success is unimportant, be­cause the entire process is un­connected from top to bottom. 
R&M was developed after a 1987 study by the aeronautical systems division of the Air Force which addressed the question, "What are companies doing in terms of quality main­tenance?" 
The survey of aerospace, engineering, missile, and avionic companies, as well as the other three branches of the armed forces, revealed that no one really knew what should be done about quality mainte­nance. 
Notre Dame will be partici­pating in the first total quality management symposium this November. 
In addition, Notre Dame will co-sponsor with West Virginia University a national academic symposium in August, 1990. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 for details. 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
Feahuing Friday nighl seafood buflel and Sunday brunc:h 
219-259-9925 

MON-THURS 11 :30AM-9:30PM FRI-SAT 11:30AM-10:30PM SUNDAY 11 :30AM-9PM SUNDAY BUFFET 11 :30AM-3PM 
*N.D. a 
~ 
a. 
..;,~..._u_._s...;;2;.;.o.;;e~._ 

293-0126 
1308 S. Nappanee St. 
..... ; ::i 

Elkhart, IN 46516 ~-~~;;-) 
* L.. .., 

J,);'!f,J liiJ ~~~~~ Szechwan Garden ~~~~~~~~~~~~H 


m ~~--------~ 







Viewpoint 
Friday, October 13, 1989
£>899 8 


The Observer-
P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ...Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager .Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor Eric Bailey OTS Director. Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Christine Gill Controller. Anne L1ndner 
The Observer 1S the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Umversl­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICieS of the admm1stra110n of e1ther mst1tut1on The news IS reported as accurately and ob­JSCtlvely as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opm1on of the maJority of the follow1ng Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef. Manag1ng Ed1tor. Execut1ve News Editor. V1ewpomt Editor, Sports Ed1tor Accent Ed1tor Photo Ed1tor. Samt Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes. letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors Column space IS available to all members of the community and the free express1on of varying opm1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
.AH CAnlT trNNE&STAND THA'T 
Human rights not 'distant concept' 
The numbers vary, but an es­own youth, the Chinese Com­
Darren Kew timated 2,000 died and 10,000 munist government has crushed 
were injured as the army fired its future as well. The old 
On Human Rights upon the crowds. Hepression Communist leaders will die out 
has continued throughout the soon. If they continue to alien­
I will never forget picking up summer as well. Asia Watch, a ate themselves from the the newspaper that morning. publication on human rights in younger generation, we may The front page of June 5, 1989, Asia, reported (July 19, 1989) very well see a diminished or was littered with pictures and that the Chinese government is dead Chinese Communist Party stories of the massacre of Chi­sentencing punishments rang­in the years to come. nese students on Tiananmen ing from years in "re-educa­Certainly we all feel a degree Square the day before. I can tion" labor camps to death for of shock and anger at the June still see an old man flying a kite even such non-violent acts as 4 massacre. At the same time, in the same spot on Tiananmen "spreading rumors" or being on the other side of the where months later tanks "distributing counter-revolu­globe it is difficult not to feel would crush the tents in which tionary handbills." Asia Watch powerless to do anything sub­students were sleeping during also states that "there has been stantial about the situation. the protest. no mention in the press of any The greatest good we here can 
I am not Chinese, nor am I an defense council." Prisoners do now for the Chinese students authority on China. I had the have been paraded through the is to remember the dream of a opportunity to spend some time streets, beaten until they better future they were willing in Beijing this spring about a "confessed" crimes, taken be­to die for. Our generation will month before the students oc­fore firing squads, or con­have the ability to shape this cupied the Square, and have demned to years of forced labor world to an extent like none be­done my best to follow events and solitary confinement. fore us. This is no exaggera­
since that time. But one does For what reason? Distribut­tion. We are living in an age of not have to be an expert to ing leaflets? Holding a sit-in? tremendous changes in commu­assess the massacre on Obviously. the Communist gov­nication, international eco­Tiananmen this year. ernment saw the students as a nomics, and world politics such 
Think for a moment about threat to the Party's position, a that each individual will have a what did happen. Chinese stu­threat grave enough to justify a greater say in the course of dents, young people like you massacre. I remember an old global events. 
and me, organized a peaceful Confucian proverb which goes The fact that you are getting demonstration calling for more something along the lines of a college education gives you an democratic freedoms and the "the man who resorts to vio­even stronger voice. You will resignation of corrupt leaders lence admits the weakness of have an opportunity to shape in in the government. The students his argument." some way the world in the fu­never called for a revolution or If Tiananmen proves any­ture. Make sure you do it right. the ousting of the Chinese thing, it is the invalidity of the Human rights is not some dis­Communist Party. In fact, some Chinese Communist Party lead­tant concept that will never of the students themselves were ership. They could not refute· have bearing on your life. Hu­Party members. The call was the students, so they murdered man rights is an attitude, a for reforms within the Com­and imprisoned as many as state of mind of care and con­munist Party-no revolution, possible. Citing the killings as a cern for your peers. If you ap­no violence. This was a state­necessary means for preserving proach life with this attitude, ment of disapproval, demand­the Party does not excuse the then you will improve this ing that the government clean Communists' actions. Instead, world in anything and every­up its act. The students were the leaders have proven their thing that you do. Remember joined by thousands of citizens own illegitimacy by defending those of our generation who from Beijing, and demonstra­their position with unjustifiable have already died for the vision tions spread to other cities acts. Tiananmen was about of a better future. Don't prove across China. The government more than just demonstrations them wrong. declared martial law on May and leaflets. The massacre was Darren Kew is a junior gov­20, and when the students re­an explicit reflection by the ernment and Japanese major, fused to leave Tiananmen, the government of its own claim to and a member of the Coalition leaders cracked down on June be a representative of the Chi­for /Iuman Rights, sponsors of 
4. nese people. And by crushing its the On Human Rights column. 
LETTERS 

Support of all art forms is essential 
Dear Editor: ing "significant literary or 
I was disturbed to read Regis artistic merit." Warhol had a Coccia's editorial (The Ob­substantial following in Amer­server, Oct. 2) on the federal ica that would surely protest bill which cuts funding of this. artists whose work is judged Art is an expression of emo­"offensive." Of course this bill tion. Many of Vincent Van does not establish censorship Gogh's paintings portray feel­as a process, that would be ings which an~ painful and ugly, blatantly unconstitutional. In­but I doubt that Mr. Coccia stead, the bill is presented as a would discredit Van Gogh's way to channel public funds artistic merit. One function of into areas that the majority of art is to challenge those that the public accepts. The effect witness it. Whether or not an will be similar to the damage audience enjoys experiencing a caused by censorship. piece of art, they can learn 
The significant majority of from it. artists rely on support and It is the American way to promotion that are provided by support, especially those who our government. If their works are not mainstream, because are not shown through this they are the ones who need outlet, there are few other op­support. Americans who keep portunities. Thus, the artist is within the parameters of the left without means to gain an law have the right to deviate audience, much less an income. from majority opinion, free Now, only those artists that from the condemnation of the create aesthetically pleasing government. Congress has works will gain aid. This is clearly violated this right by clearly censorship. passing this bill. 
Andy Warhol's soup can paintings are not beautiful, and Emily Neufeld would not probably fall into the Lewis /Jail non-funded category for· lack-Oct. 2, 1989 
Harassment at ND is inexcusable 
Dear Editor: the fact that if the other Mike 
Hecently a letter was pub­Miller's experience has been lished in Viewpoint (The Ob­anything like mine, then he has server, Oct. 11) in which several recieved many anonymous students declared their homo­phone calls and abusive re­sexuality or their support for marks. it. One of the authors of the If these few people truly feel letter was Mike W. Miller, a se­that they must harass someone nior engineering major from who has written a letter to The Stanford Hall. My name is Observer, no matter what the Michael J. Miller, and I am a subject, I would suggest they junior economics and philoso­think about the consequences phy major from California who of their actions before they act; lives in Flanner Hall. but if they still must call, they 
I want to clarify that I am not might want to at least make a homosexual but a heterosex­sure they have the right person. ual. I am writing this letter to distinguish myself from the Michael J. Miller Mike W. Miller who wrote the Flanner //all article, and also to point out Oct. 12, 1989 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Superstition is a senseless fear of God.' 
George Santayana 


--~~----~----~-----~--------·1*~------_.------~--..------~-----,
r------------~-~ ~ --------~----------­

Viewpoint
Friday, October 13, 1989 page 9 
Risks of legal abortion are too great to accept 

Sovereignty or sacrifice: the abortion debate 
Right to life is not only for the wealthy ~~ 
Dear hditor: the protection of pre-born life. of the founders of the Rescue 
Paul Peralez, in his letter to I am not opposed to Movement, writes that there the editor (The Observer, Oct. sovereignty, but sovereignty in are "No Cheap Solutions" to the 6), asserts that there is "no a civilized society should not problem of unplanned and un­moral justification for a mean that you can kill innocent wanted pregnancies in our soci­woman to give birth to a child human beings. Our rights of ety. Either we permit the indis­to whom she can give only a life sovereignty begin to interfere criminate killing of one-third of of extremity." Mr. Peralez de­with the sovereignty of others. an entire class of innocent hu­lineates moral justifications for Mr. Peralez values freedom. man beings or we commit our­determining who and who lie places that freedom above selves to the protection of the should not pass through the the sanctity and infinite value most vulnerable and helpless in birth canal. This assertion, of each individual human life. our society. The cost of this taken to its logical end, would Just as slavery interferes with a commitment is high; expectant mean that only the well-off born person's freedom to live mothers will demand attention, should be permitted to give and pursue happiness, abortion and we must be prepared to re­Dear Editor: fetus is a genetically unique birth. This is precisely what interferes with a pre-born per­spond to their needs in charity I read the Viewpoint article human being that privacy could Margaret Sanger, founder of son's freedom to live and pur­and love. by Mr. Paul Peralez (The Ob­possibly be favored over life. Planned Parenthood, envi­sue happiness. One word sums up this server, Oct. 6) with both inter­In a philosophical sense, it sioned. Mr. Peralez's arguments re­commitment: sacrifice. The est and dismay. The specious makes no difference that the 
Mr. Peralez classifies anti­garding the Constitution are word is rarely heard today in arguments aside, I commend Supreme Court proclaims that abortionists as the same people unpersuasive. Protection of our materialistic culture, but it Mr. Peralez for including more "an unborn child is not a citizen who oppose prenatal care for prenatal life does not require is precisely what is demanded if truth in expressing his view­of the United States" because poverty stricken pregnant the granting of citizenship to we are to live in a society where point than most abortion advo­that Court can only decide mat­women. Perhaps it would be a zygotes, blastulas, and fetuses. all innocent human life is re­cates. ters of law, not of morality. In good idea for Mr. Peralez to Citizens of Canada, Germany spected. Mother Theresa has Throughout the article he a pragmatic sense, however, it talk with one of the thousands and Japan, et a!, visit this coun­called abortion the greatest de­talks about the gift of "life" makes a big difference because of human beings who have try. They are not citizens of the stroyer of peace in the world and the birth of a "child." How­many people simply presume risked everything by placing United States, but they still en­today. She has also reminded ever, like most abortion advo­that what the Court declares to themselves vulnerably between joy the right not to be deprived us that "giving is not giving cates, he focuses on one very be legal must also be moral. abortionists and pre-born chil­of life. liberty, or property until it hurts." Mr. Peralez may important issue -a woman's The presumption is noble but dren during a mother-child res­without due process of law. think that allowing children al­freedom -while not directly not necessarily correct. cue attempt. A discussion with As for the argument that ready conceivPd to be born discussing the other fundamen­As members of a university any one of them would reveal wealthy women can go off and would "overburden" our soci­tal issue in the abortion debate: community seeking the whole the depth of their commitment seek a "safe and dignified" ety; this would not be thP case the fact that one human life is truth, we must face the issue of to help women in need. Also, abortion in a foreign country: if we all, including Mr. Peralez, destroyed in every abortion. fetal human life as well as the pregnancy help centers, such as 1) abortion is never safe for the would respond to these mothers Mr. Peralez is correct in say­issue of a woman's free­the Women's Care Center in pre-born !'hild, and 2) the and children in need and give to ing that the 1973 "Roe vs. dom/privacy when discussing South Bend, now outnumber killing of the innocent is never them the love and respect that Wade" Supreme Court decision abortion. When we do so, I pre­abortion clinics in this country. dignified. Further, the fact that is due to those created in the gives priority to privacy rather sume that all people will con­These non-profit centers pro­it is easier for someone with image and likeness of God. than to life and denies legal clude that life is clearly more vide a range of services for wealth to obtain something status (and therefore protec­fundamental than freedom. mothers in need and are staffed that is wrong does not justify tion of life) to unborn human almost entirely by volunteers. facilitating the obtaining of Keith Rothfus life. The Supreme Court could 
Mr. Peralez then cites that wrong for those with less Chairman, not have said the first without Father Ronald J. Wasowski "women's sovereignty" as a wealth. Law School Right-to-Life the second; it is only by ignor­Department of Earth Sciences more compelling "issue" than John Cavanaugh-O'Keefe, one Oct. 6, 1989 ing or denying the fact that the Oct. 8, 1989 
Court cannot decide on moral issues 
By Rick Acker 
Is a fetus a person? This question was asked at a recent law school debate between a pro-choice leader and a pro-life leader. Both gave heated and indignant responses. 
The pro-choice leader de­clared that "A fetus is a lump of tissue, not a human being. It is totally dependent on the woman carrying it. You can't even talk about it being a hu­man being until it can exist outside the womb." The pro-life lead!)r responded by pulling out a lurid picture of a nearly fully developed fetus and asked: "llow can you say that's not a person? Life begins at concep­tion." Both of these statements make great slogans, but neither gives much help in answering the crucial question of fetal personhood. 
Whether or not a fetus is a person is the issue at thr heart of the abortion debate. If a fe­tus is not a person, then abor­tions are about as immoral as appendectomies and society has no business restricting them. If, on the other hand, a fetus is a person, then abortion is murder and cannot be tolerated by an civilized society. Before we can form an opinion on abortion we must first think long and hard on this question. There are simple answers and there are good answers, but there are no answers that are both simple and good. 
What, for instance, is so morally significant about a 
LETTERS 
baby being able to live outside the womb? Why should this stage in development mean anymore than when the fetu, first kicks? Or when it is born? Or when it learns to walk? Some babies are born with malformed lungs or other problems and die at birth or soon after. Do their physical defects keep them from being persons? If science discovers a way to savl' them, will they suddenly miraculously become persons? 
Some pro-choicers will argue that it is not the biological state of tlw fetus that matters, rather, it is the fetus' total re­liance on the mother for sup­port. As long as she is its sole source of support, they claim, she should be able to terminate it anytime she wants. Aside from the self-centeredness of this position, it is doomed by the simple fact that the depen­dence of the fetus on the mother does not end at birth. Indeed, this definition consid­ered, I know of some "fetuses" in their mid-twenties who are still totally dependent on their mothers. 
The argument of the pro-life debates does not fare much better. Why should a fertilized egg be a person? Is it because a fertilized egg has the full ge­netic code of a human being? If this is true, then every time we take a shower we are commit­ting mass murder against all the skin cells (which also have the full genetic code of a human being) we wash down the drain. Is it because a fertilized egg will develop into a fully grown human being? If this is true, then it seems we must also claim that an acorn is an oak tree and an egg is a chicken. Some fertilized eggs attach themselves to the uterus im­properly and become malignant tumors rather than babies. Are these tumors persons too? 
These two positions do have some merit. They would not be defended by many thoughtful philosophers and theologians if they did not. My point, however, is that they also have serious problems, and that reasonable men and women can disagree about them. Moreover, there are a number of other positions which also have merit. Some people argue that a fetus be­comes a person when brain ac­tivity starts. Others think it happens when the heart begins beating. Still others are con­vinced that personhood de­pends on having a brain devel­oped enough to use reason. All of these positions have good points, and all have problems. 
The importance of all this is that it means we can never be totally sure if a fetus is a per­son or not. This does not mean, however, that we can have not opinion on the abortion issue. What it comes down to is a question of risk. If the pro-lif­ers win and are wrong, women will have an important, but very narrow, right stripped from them unjustly. If, on the other hand, the pro-choicers win and are wrong, then we will con­tinue to commit genocide on a scale that dwarfs Hitler's Holo­caust. 
In essence, we are given a choice of risks. We can risk taking away one of women's hard earned reproductive rights, or we can risk murder­ing millions of babies every year. I do not like the idea of oppressing women, but I do not see how any Christian can ac­cept the terrible risk of keeping abortion legal. 
Rick Acker is a student in the Notre Dame Law School. 
--~------~-------~ -~--~-­
Friday, October 13, 1989 
MUSIC Zeto and the Heat-Ons, Theodore's, 10 p.m. -1 a.m. Calcutta Rain, Alumni Senior Club, 9 p.m. 
Robert Noll Blues Band, Center Street Blues Supper 
Club, 9:30p.m. 

THEATER "Tartuffe," Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m. 
MUSIC XYZ Affair, Theodore's, 10 p.m. -1 a.m. John Kennedy and Friends, Club 23, 9 p.m. 
Robert Noll Blues Band, Center Street Blues Supper 
Club, 9:30 p.m. 

THEATER "Tartuffe," Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m. 
OFF CAMPUS Steven Wright, Morris Civic Auditorium, 8 p.m. 
MUSIC David Burge guest piano recital, Annenberg Auditori­um, 2 p.m. $5 general admission, $2 for students and senior citizens. 
THEATER "Tartuffe," Washington Hall, 3:10p.m. 
NOTRE DAME Friday "Pet Sematary," Engineering Auditorium, 8 p.m. 
"The Omen," Engineering Auditorium, 10:10 p.m. 
"The Shining," Engineering Auditorium, 12:20 a.m. 
"Hellralser," Engineering Auditorium, 2:30 a.m. "New York Stories," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 and 9:30p.m. Saturday 
"Rebel Without a Cause," Engineering Auditorium, 8 
and 10:15 p.m. 

UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "sex, lies and videotape" 5:30, 7:40 & 9:50p.m. "Johnny Handsome" 5:40, 7:45 & 9:50 p.m. 
"Turner and Hooch" 5:30, 7:30 & 9:30p.m. "Lethal Weapon II" 7:15 & 9:45p.m. "An Innocent Man" 7 & 9:30p.m. "Uncle Buck" 5:45, 7:45 & 9:45 p.m. UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "When Harry Met Sally" 5:35, 7:40 & 9:45p.m. "Kickboxer" 5:40, 7:40 & 9:45p.m. "In Country" 7 & 9:30p.m. 

The 

MISSY IRVING accent writer 
he Malabar, "where 
T 
the aroma of gentle spices awaits you," 
does a laudable job 
of presenting Indian 
cuisine for a domes­tic clientele. The Malabar lacks the foreign spicing and daunt­ing character encountered in more authentic restaurants, but this becomes an asset. It allows for a comfortable and appealing introduction to Indian food, served with sophistication in a moderately exotic setting. Thus, nothing about The Malabar, lo­cated at 1709 South Bend Av­enue, is overwhelming, but, rather subtle and inviting. 
The small, but cozy dining room contains only eleven ta­bles, simply adorned with fresh flowers and candles. The sub­dued lighting and soft, chant­ing, Indian flute music provide an almost hallucinogenic atmo­sphere, as if one had suddenly entered the banquet room on the island of the Lotus Eaters. A fertility goddess stands in the 
JANICE ARCHER accent writer 
I 
f you would like to feast on chocolate free of guilt, then the second annual Chocolate Festival is the 
place for you. At the Choc­
olate Festival you can splurge 
to your heart's content, know­
ing that it is all for a good 
cause. The Festival, which will take place from 1 to 6 p.m. on Sun­day, Oct.15 in the Century Cen­ter, is a benefit for the non­profit organization, Friends of the Unemployed. 
background as the patroness of an enjoyable evening. 
There is no need to order ap­petizers unless you are excep­tionally hungry, as unlimited supplies of papadams will be brought to your table. These "fresh, cracked lentil wafers" are paper-thin and either spiced with onion, poppy seed, or saffron. They are exquisitely fried and immediately addic­tive. Nevertheless, the two pre­entree offerings on the menu are both priced under $2.50. 
Each evening, Tuesday through Saturday, a different assortment of about four en­trees is offered, with the prices ranging from $8.95 to $11.95. Generally, one may chose from a chicken, pork, lamb or beef dish. All dinners are accompa­nied by basmati rice, toasted pita bread, potato bhaji (Indian potato salad), katehumber (chopped onions, tomatoes. and peppers in dressing), and a small dish of tangy yogurt sauce to use as you please.We visited on a Tuesday and received cheerful, attentive service and advice from our waitress. which belies the possibility that The Malabar would ever be willfuily 
~f!Y~'?i. 
Chocolate Lov 








PARAD1 
October 15 at the Centur! 
Murgh Curry claims to b( "select pieces of chicken m; nated" in herbs and ~e.rved j a yogurt sauce. The p~ecesi chicken turned out to be 0111 medium sized leg, yet, the · sauce was aromatic and fla'l ful. Nevertheless, the ehick• was plump, well cooked, ari had a mildly pungent navm 1 The Murgh Tandoor was vi I ally indistinguishable from I Curry. except for its tangy 1 pery aroma. Both of my fri£ who ordered these dishes, 1 marked that the portion of meat, a ~ingle leg, could h;l been a b1t more, yet, the qt. ty of side dishes kept them feeling hungry afterwards. · 
The beef curry is a better choice than the lamb, the o curry dish offered that nigh! primarily because of the pr~ $8.95 for the beef. $11.95 f~ the lamb. Furthermore, the beef was already cubed anq zled in a generous amount~ rich curry sauce. It was tenl and succulent, although one again, there could have bee1 few more pieces. 
The main dishes are whe~ 
The Malabar shows its tale with the difficult art of spic" The point to keep in mind Indian cuisine is that one w experience tastes never be~. encountered and spices so 
• 

This organization, founded in 1982, provides free job search and motivational assistance to the unemployed of Michiana. Their services in the praCtical and psychological aspects of a job search are available to any­one, for there are no eligibility requirements. Cathy Nafe, ex­ecutive director of Friends of the Unemployed, explained the four primary services the orga­nization provides. "We help with resume preparation, inter­viewing techniques, writing thank-you notes and eover let­ters, and showing how to mar­ket oneself to potential employ­ers." They are funded by grants, private donations, an fund-raising events such as t Chocolate Festival. 
Thirty local restaurants, gr eery stores, and confectioner will be offering their favorite ehocolate specialties on Sum For the admission price, one can sample desserts or pur­chase larger versions of the samples. There arc free bal­loons and activities planned children, and opportunities f photos with the Chocolate Moose. The Hershey pastry e will provide a demonstration and recipes from various ch1 late manufaeturers will be 




ISH 
__XTRA 
Notre Dame vs. Air Force Friday, October 13, 1989 
THE GAME 
The Game Time TV & Radio 
Tickets 
Notre Dame (5-0) at Air Force (6-0) 
Saturday, Oct. 14 5 p.m. MDT, 6 p.m. in South Bend 
ESPN: Ron Franklin, Kevin Kiley WNDU-16 in South Bend: Jack Nolan, Jeff Jeffers Mutual Radio Network, Tom Pagna, Tony Roberts 
The game is sold out. 
AP Rankings 
Series Notre Dame leads 14-4 
Aug. 31 ND 36, Virginia 13 Sept. 16 ND 24, Michigan 19 Sept. 23 ND 21, Michigan St. 19 Sept. 30 ND 40, Purdue 7 Oct. 7 Notre Dame 27, Stanford 17 Oct. 14 at Air Force Oct. 21 usc Oct. 28 PITTSBURGH Nov. 4 NAVY Nov. 11 SMU Nov. 18 at Penn State Nov. 25 at Miami 
AIR FORCE SCHEDULE 
Sept. 2 Sept. 10 Sept. 16 Sept. 23 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Oct. 21 Nov. 4 Nov. 11 Nov. 25 Dec. 9 
_ 

Air Force 52, S.D. State 36 Air Force 45, Wyoming 7 Air Force 48, Northwestern 31 Air Force 43, UTEP 26 Air Force 46, Colorado St. 21 Air Force 35, Navy 7 NOTRE DAME at Texas Christian ARMY at BYU at Utah at Hawaii 
LAST WEEK ­
PALO ALTO, Calif.-No one told Notre Dame 
about the change in the schedule Saturday. The 
Irish expected Stanford. What they got was an 
air force. 
Notre Dame won the thriller 27-17, but 
Stanford quarterback Steve Smith gave the Irish 
fits, never letting up on an aerial attack that 
included 39 completions in 68 attempts for 282 
yards. 
"We knew they were a passing team," said 
Irish free safety Pat Terrell, "but this was 
something we couldn't predict. In the 
secondary, you just have to hit them as soon as 
you can and let them know who hit them." 
Terrell's two interceptions late in the tense 
fourth quarter helped the Notre Dame overcome 
the Cardinal passing attack and a penalty­
marred performance to record their 17th 
consecutive victory and raise their record to 5­
0. Stanford fell to 1-4. 
The Observer I Eric Bailey 
Irish defensive end Scott Kowalkowski, shown here in full uniform, has made an impression on opposing ballcarriers. He has accounted for 24 tackles and 1.5 sacks for the Irish this season. 

Kowalkowski's ritual: 
New meaning to stretching before a game 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
Superstitions make people do crazy things and sometimes very ordinary things in a peculiar fash­ion. Irish head coach Lou Holtz drinks a strawberry milkshake be­fore every game. In the world of baseball, Wade Boggs of the Boston Red Sox devours boneless chicken during his batting streaks (on the field). Bjorn Borg never shaved during his annual two-week reign as the 'King of Wimbledon' from 1976-1980. But above and be­yond the realm of normalcy, Irish defensive end Scott Kowalkowski has a superstition that is without compare. 
For three years, it has been Kowalkowski's custom to arrive very early to the game and put on his football pants-and that's it. In a nomadic fashion, Kowalkowski moseys around the locker room for twenty minutes and then takes them off, only to put on all his equipment, in its entirety. One may think this is a very odd thing to do, and even Kowalkowsi admits his pre-game ritual is a bit strange. 
"It is weird," says the 6-2, 226­
pound defensive end. "I don't know 
why I do it. I think it originated be­
cause my pants were too tight. So, I 
would put them on, walk around, 
stretch them, take them off and 
then put all my stuff on again. Now 
it is just something I do." 
The oddness of this ritual even 
struck the colorful and and some­
what eccentric Frank Starns as be­
ing somewhat off-the-wall. 
"You know Scott is Polish and you 
have to understand the Polish cul­
ture," said Starns, who has taken 
his services to the NFL's Los Ange­
les Rams. "They do everything 
backwards. No wonder he was al-

Scott Kowalkowski 
ways the last one out of the tunnel. 
But that pre-game ritual is plain 
weird." 
Although this is not you run-of­
the-mill superstition, it has evi­dently has performed magic for the Farmington Hills, Mich. native. Kowalkowski's ascent to the first­string defense is not that uncom­mon with regard to Notre Dame football. After a highly successful campaign at Orchard Lake St. Mary's High School, he was low man on the totem pole on the Irish depth charts during his freshman year. He paid his dues on the special teams (kickoff team) in his first two years, and during his sopho­more year his role took on another dimension. Kowalkowski was the top backup to All-American Frank Starns at rush end. 
But the 1989 season is a different story w,ith Starns and veteran Flash Gordon absent from the Irish roster. It is Kowalkowski's turn. The waiting is over. Kowalkowski is center stage for the defending 
champions and No. 1-ranked colle­
giate team. 
"I attribute my success to my 
coaches," professes Kowalkowski. 
"Also, I put in long hours and work 
hard. I take pride in being an in­
tense person on the field and a hard 
worker. L also think it is really im­
portant to know my assignments 
and use my ability to the best of my 
ability. I just try to use all that I 
have." 
In the Notre Dame's quest to de­
fend the national championship, 
Kowalkowski has been a steady, 
reliable force at both the rush end 
and drop end slots on defense. He 
has started all five games for Notre 
Dame-three at the rush end slot 
and two at the drop slot. During 
the five games, he has amassed 10 
solo tackles, 14 assists, including 
four for losses. This versatile 
player has recorded one-an-half 
sacks as well as pounced on one 
fumble recovery for the oppor­
tunistic Irish defense. 
"Scott is a real intense guy that 
knows what to do," says Jay Hayes, 
the Notre Dame defensive end 
coach. "Scott does what it takes to 
win. His ability to play at both end 
positions has helped out tremen­
dously. Without him we would be in 
a tough situation." 
Tough , indeed. Coming into the 
season, Coach Holtz and his staff 
stated that the defensive ends were one of the 'crucial' concerns, and justifiably so. The Irish coaching c.oaching staff had to replace both Starns and Gordon. To make mat­ters worse, freshman sensation Arnold Ale packed up his bags and headed back home to California and UCLA. But the woes continued for the coaching staff, as the season went on injuries plagued the end 
see DEFENSE, page 4 
-----------~--­
IRISH EXTRA Friday, October 13, 1989 
..--------......--_.._____________ 
The Game .•• 

Photo Courtesy of Air Force Sports Information 
Inside linebacker Brian Hill makes the tackle for the Falcons 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
At the Air Foree Academy. the standards are high. 
The Academy admits just 11 perennt of its applicants, pre­pares students to defend Amer­ica and boasts of attracting some of the top academic talent in the country. 
Perhaps that explains why 1989 was not acceptable for anyone, espt)cially Air Force football coach Fisher DeBerry. The Falcons struggled to a 5-7 record. losing four games by seven points or less and posting the school's first losing mark 


Greg Johnson 
since 1981. 
"We came off a very dis­appointing season last year," DeBerry said. "I told our play­ers those weren't acceptable 
standards for the Academy." 
Like the Air Force planes, DeBerry aims for the stars. The sky is the limit for DeBerry, de­spite admittedly being at a re­cruiting disadvantage. 
And just one year after that disappointing 5-7 season, De­Berry has the Falcons nying high again. They have steam­rolled through a lightweight schedule to a 6-0 start and have vaulted into the Top 20, coming in this week at No. 17. 
Saturday at home against 
top-ranked Notre Dame (6 p.m. 
South Bend time, WNDU-16), 
Air Force will finally get the 
chance to prove the schedule­
raving critics incorrect. 
"It's not every day you get to 
play the No. 1 team in the coun­
try," DeBerry said. "If you're 
competitive, that's something 
you dream about." 
Air Force is not experienced 
when it comes to playing the 
top-ranked team. This will be 
the first time the No. 1 team 
has played in Falcon Stadium. 
DeBerry hopes the Irish will not 
PLAYERS TO WATCH 
leave as the top team. 
"Notre Dame will be the na­tional champions until some­body beats it," DeBerry said. "(But) the target on your chest gets bigger and bigger each week. When you're Notre Dame, people arc going to play a little bit harder. 
"College football is so com­petitive that any team is ca­pable of beating any other team on a given weekend. There is great parity in colleg~ football." 
The Air Force schedule-San Diego State, Wyoming, North­western, UTEP, Colorado State and Navy-has not been overly impressive, but the Air Force team has. 
In those six games, the Fal­cons have outscored their op­ponents by a 269-128 count. They have dominated teams throughout the young season, the closest game a 52-36 sea­son-opening win over San Diego State. 
But DeBerry knows this week's opponent is Notre Dame, the defending national champions, the holders of a 17­game winning streak, the team with more mystique than an F­12. 
"They're solid at every posi­tion," DeBerry said. "Lou won't tell you that but they are. Every coach would like to have what he's got at every position. That's why they've won 17 in a row." 
After Saturday, DeBerry hopes the only streak that mat­ters will be Air Force's seven consecutive wins. 
Air Force offense vs. Notre Dame defense 
The game is already being billed as the October showdown for the Heisman Trophy be­tween Air Force's Dee Dowis and Notre Dame's Tony Rice. 
Dowis is the backbone of the 
Air Force wishbone offense, a short quarterback with big stats. He ranks fourth in the nation in rushing with 133.7 yards per game and fourth in scoring at 13 points per game. Dowis has gained 802 yards on 74 carries and is just 172 yards away from becoming the all­time NCAA leader in rushing yards by a quarterback. 
The Air Force offensive at­tack is not limited solely to Dowis. The wishbone gives the Falcons the opportunity to showcase their backfield, something Notre Dame must 
stop early in the game. The Falcons gain 449 yards per game on the ground, tops in the nation and rank third in total 
offense  at  526.2  yards  per  
game.  
Near  the  goal line,  Dowis  

often looks to senior halfback Greg Johnson. Johnson has gained 396 yards on 66 carries with 12 touchdowns. Junior fullback Hodney Lewis has gained 584 yards on 81 carries and sophomore fullback Jason Jones has registered 333 yards and a touchdown on 55 carries. 
Notre Dame will be well-pre­pared to stop the run. The Irish rank 13th in rushing defense, giving up just 93.8 yards per game. They surrender just 
262.6 total yards per game. 
The lowest amount of points scored by Air Force in one game this season is 35. The most allowed by the Notre Dame defense in one game is 
19. Something will have to give here. 
"The defense might be the strength of the Notre Dame team," DeBerry said. "You be­come a great football team with great defense." 
On paper, the Irish have a definite advantage in the trenches. The average Notre Dame defensive lineman is 6­foot-4 and 264 pounds com­pared to the average Air Force offensive lineman at 6-foot-1 and 240 pounds. 
If the Falcons are forced to 
throw the ball, they do have 
some capable receivers. Senior 
Steve Senn has pulled down 11 
passes for 236 yards, capped 
by last week's live catches for 
116 yards and two touchdowns. 
That was the first time an Air 
Force receiver has gained morn 
than 100 yards since 1965. 
Notre Dame offense vs. Air Force defense 
While the Notre Dame defense will concentrate on Dowis, the Air Force defense will have its hands full with Hiee, another option quarterback. 
Hice has carried the ball 68 times for 365 yards and com­pleted 35-of-60 passes for 615 yards with two interceptions. Rice is always ready for the big games, and a showdown with Dowis should prove no differ­ent. 
Rice will benelit from Notre Dame's size advantage on the line. The average Irish offensive lineman is 6-foot-4 and 273 pounds. while the average Fal­con def1msive linnman is (J-foot­3 and 238 pounds. 
"Tony Hic1~ has those red­woods in front of him," De­Berry said. "It's hard to lind him behind that massive offen­sive line. Tony Hice gets the ball in the endzonn. That's what makes him a great quarter­back." 
Hiee may be more w~rsatile than Dowis, and he has a more talented supporting east. An­thony Johnson and Hieky Wat­ters provide the punch in the backfield. Look for Haghib Is­mail and Derek Brown to play big roles if the Air Force de­fense stops the running game early. 
Lost in the shuflle of the Hien­Dowis showdown an~ thn two top kick-off returners in the country-Notre Dame's Ismail and Air Force's Hon Gray. While everyone talks of not kicking to Ismail, Notre Dame may want to kick away from Gray. The second leading kick­off returner in the country, 
Gray averages 33.8 yards per return. 
Ismail still leads the nation with 44.6 yards per return and two touchdowns. He ran a kick 
back 66 yards last week against Stanford to give the Irish a big boost in their 27-17 victory. 





Fisher DeBerry Ron Gray Steve Senn Rod";tLewis Terry Walker Coach HB WR LB 
Piling up the numbers within
DeBerry has coached the Halfback Gray has accumu­Lewis is second on the team Walker leads the Falcon de­high-powered Falcon wish­lated 181 yards rushing this the limited Falcon passing to Dee Dowis in all-purpose fense, amassing 60 tackles in game, Senn has 11 recep­
bone game into a scoring ma­season, on 29 carries, good yardage, earning 584 yards six games. He also has one 
tions for 236 yards, a 39.3
chine. He has a career mark for a 6.2 average. on 81 plays. He is a bomb interception and one sack on 
yards per catch average. He
of 40-21 with Air Force, a 65.6 ready to explode, having not the year. 
has scored two Falcon TDs. 
winning percentage. scored a TO this year. 

Members of World Hunger Coalition purchase and deliver food to South Bend 
l111iurnil1! 11f ~tllrr Damr 
~tuilrnl ll'lourrmnrnt 
:\t•lrr Dnmr, Jnbiaua ·lfiHLi 
(219) 23\1-itHill 
.ffiatthrb1 J. llrrtlin D:lllil'l W. ~iulwpf (tiutJ(t), nTrismantrl ~~~~~rnl llt'l'll.! f.lrnil'lrnl Stul'lrnl lltll'l!,! llirr-lJrnil'lrnt Stul'lrul l1obu [rrmmrrr 
Fall 1989 
Uear Notre Dame Students, 
Through the Center for Social Concerns, dozens of service and social action groups and organizations really make a diffcrence in our communitv. Innovative and energetic students make it all possible. 
Within this insert are descriptions of these> organizations, each with its specific goal or purpose. We encourage you to look over this information and find an organization that suits your talents and interests. 
Being involved at Notre Dame" is more than just meetings, These organizations meet vital needs in our community, actively helping hundreds. Commitments vary; you can spend just a few hours a week and !Hill experience the benefits of helping others. 
Whatever you decide to do, your contribution does have an impact. Change is always possible when concerned people join tog€'ther and take action. In addition to helping others, your involvement with one of these groups or organizations m.1.y be one of the greatest educational experiences you have in college. 
Student Government commends you on your intere1>t and concern. Your participation shows that the Notre Dame student body n•allv does care about its community. . 
Matt Breslin Student Body President 
navE' Kinkopf Student Body \'i ce-PrC's!dent 
Student Government 
Social Concerns Commissioners: Bill Mordan 402 Keenan Barb lzzo 420 Lewis Chris Fillio 312 Carroll Beth Apone 151 Farley 
3340 3468 4078 4298 

a ~ A
• 
The Center for Social Concerns 


Part of a new generation 
Are students of the '80's really devoted only to the pursuit of pleasure and good jobs? Some would say a resounding no! The February 8, 1988 issue of Newsweek puts it this way: "BMWs and the Almighty Buck are out. The new Yuppie rallying cry is volunteerism. Tired of the excesses of the Me Generation and searching for balance and companionship, young professionals are penciling compassion into their appointment books. • More and more college students are putting community service into their academic schedules. Here at Notre Dame and at Saint Mary's many students rmd what they are looking for through the Center for Social Concerns. Approximately 1,500 students are doing some kind of community service or social justice activity here this year. The activities vary from visits to the elderly to writing letters on behalf of political prisoners to organizing recycling efforts. 
This generation of students is rmding more and varied ways of 'balancing academics with service. Twenty-five years ago there was one organized service opportunity for students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's --tutoring. Now in addition to a large and active tutoring program there are approximately thirty groups that enable students to add community service to student life. There are also programs that allow students to both learn and serve during their breaks. An increasing number of students are spending their Spring or Fall break in Appalachia or two days of their Christmas break in the inner city. A growing number of students --94 in 1989 --spend eight weeks in the summer working at Summer Service Projects all over the U.S. 
Just as many young professionals find volunteering more 
satisfying than a self-centered pursuit of success, students rmd 
involvement in service gratifying and energizing. Many students 
who give community service a serious effort while they are in 
school, find that it becomes a way of life. Often those same 
students who participate in an Urban Plunge or spend time with 
an elderly person while they are in school, volunteer in an inner 
city parish or a soup kitchen when they enter the working world. 
In fact, some eight percent of ND graduates choose to spend a 
year or more in full-time service. 
All this is to say that at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, students 
have the opportunity through the Center for Social Concerns for 
an involvement in service or social action programs which keeps 
them in tune with the times. They leave Notre Dame with a fine 
education that prepares them for the professional world and a 
first hand awareness of the value and importance of "penciling 
compassion into their appointment books" --and more than this ­
-integrating it into their lives. 
Kathy Royer 
'The Beauty Is What They Did For Us' 
"We left Appalachia exactly as we found it:· an impoverished area rich in natural resources. What had changed, though; was us; we were not the same, selfish, microcosmic people after the experience. The mountain folk afforded us the opportunity to explore issues beyond our own narrow scope (how many job offers we received or what percentage of the girls on campus are dieting, for example), which is the special part of the experience. The beauty of the program is not what we did for the Appalachian people, but rather, what they did for us. • Joe Meyer '90 

'A Place Where Mind And Heart Can Come Together...' 
I would like students and alumni to think about the Center for Social Concerns as a kind of symbol of what we are as a University. This is a place where the mind and heart can come together; where we can take our training and our intellectual development and focus everything in such a way as to make a difference. 
We can think about the systematic and structural changes that are necessary. and at the same time, respond more instantaneously and spontaneously to the neighbor who comes to our door. 
Universities are especially. able to offer society and the Church a focus and sustained reflection about these great social problems. At the same time, there are people rubbing shoulders with the people who will be affected by their thinking. 
All of this together will really allow Notre Dame to be the kind of specialinstitution that it has been in the past. 
Rev. EdwardA. Malloy, C.S.C. President From a 1988 videotape interview 
The Center is a component of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry of the University of Notre Dame. 
1989-90 DIRECTORY 
OF 
SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION GROUPS 
Amnesty International ND Anti-Apartheid Network Big Brothers/Sisters Center for Basic Learning Center for the Homeless CILA Coalition for Human 
Rights Coundl for Fun & Learn Council for the Retarded Dismas House Environmental Action 
Club Food Share Habitat for Humanity Hispanic-American Org. Logan Center Madison Center NAACP ND/SMC Headstart Neighborhood Housing 
Services Neighborhood Study Help Program Northern Indiana State Developmental Center Overseas Development 
Network Pax Christi Right to Life SAVE (Student Advocates 
Volunteers for the Elderly) Shelter for the Homeless STEP (Student Tutorial Education Program) St. Hedwig's Neighborhood Center Women United for Justice & Peace Women's Care Center World Hunger Coalition YWCA Women's Shelter 
[t'~~y(X y·ll] 
Center lor Social Concerns paid advertisement The Observer page 2 
Groups Enrich Students and Community 
ECOLOGY Environmental Action Club Objective: To organize the collection of used aluminum Needs: Volunteers to help plan for collection Contact: James Dailey -283-1860 ELDERLY, SERVICES TO THE Student Advocates Volunteers for the Elderly (SAVE): 
Home visits: Objective: To visit elderly people who have little contact with the outside world Needs: Volunteers to visit about once per week for one hour Contact: Cathi Dillon -283-4985 
Nursing Home Visits: Objective: To visit people who are confined to a nursing home Needs: Volunteers to visit one or two nursing home residents on a weekly basis Contact: Leslie Astorga -283-4204 
One Time Service Projects: Objective: To do tasks for Elderly people that need to be done on an irregular basis--leaf raking, snow-shoveling, etc. Needs: Volunteers willing to be listed to be called when needed Contact: Cathi Dillon -283-4985 
Respite Care Program: Objective: To relieve caretakers of elderly people in their homes on a regular or on call basis Needs: Volunteers who would be willing to be called when needed Contact: Leslie Astorga -283-4204 
ETHNIC CONCERNS 
Hispanic-American Organization Objective: To raise awareness and to provide services to the Hispanic community 
Needs: Volunteers to plan programs and to work on projects Contact: Diana Fuentes -283-4003 NAACP (National Assoc. for the Advancement of Colored People) Objective: To combine the energies and talents of all to act on issues which affect minorities on campus and in society at large Needs: Volunteers to plan and to work on projects Contact: Joe Watson-283-3804 
HANDICAPPED, SERVICES TO THE Council for the Retarded Saturday Recreation: Objective: To provide activities for mentally handicapped people in the community on a regular basis Needs: Volunteers for every Saturday morning for two hours Contact: John VanHarken-283-1881 Dances: Objective: To provide a setting for social interaction for mentally handicapped people Needs: Volunteers to participate in and plan monthly dances at Logan Center Contact: Peggy Hoban -284-4357 Friday Bowling: Objective: To provide an opportunity for mentally handicapped people to get out into the community for recreation Needs: Volunteers every Friday from 3-5 
p.m. to accompany bowling party Contact: John VanHarken-283-1881 
·~ft ..~·
...,..,...••= 
Logan Center Volunteers: Objective: To provide one-to-one support to clients of Logan Center Needs: Volunteers to work with Logan clients to be scheduled individually Contact: Ann Logamarcino -289-4831 
Northern Indiana State Development Center Objective: To work with mentally retarded children and adolescents who are residents of NISDC 
Needs: Volunteers to work on projects and one-to-one with NISDC residents Contact: William O'Mahony-283-1765 HOMELESS, SERVICES TO THE Broadway Christian Parish: Objective: To provide one meal per week on Sunday noon Needs: Volunteers to help prepare and serve meal on Sundays Contact: Sara Webb Phillips -289-0333 Center for the Homeless: 
Overnight Volunteers: Objective: To stay with guests at the Center for the Homeless during the night Needs: Four volunteers every night from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. 
Daytime Volunteers: Objective: To help with the program for 


Michiana Community Recognizes Students' Service 
The work of students through the Center in the local community has been recognized in a variety of ways. In the photo above, Barbara Crawford, General Manager of the Scottsdale Mall, South Bend, is pictured with students Vibha Monteiro, Co-leader, Foodshare Program, and Phil Kraker, Leader of the Student Tutorial Educational Program (STEP). Throughout 1989 the Center is the recipient of the coins from the fountains of the Scottsdale Mall. Additional local support has been recently provided by the Schurz Communication Foundation (South Bend Tribune) and the Kroger Company Foundation, among others. 
the Homeless during the daytime hours Needs: Volunteers to serve meals, take care of the desk or spend time one-to­one with residents 
Volunteers to transport food: Objective: To collect fresh food from donors and deliver to Center for the Homeless Needs: Volunteers in morning from 8-9. No vehicle necessary Contact: Diane Ricker -283-3950 HOUSING 

HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 
Objective: To provide affordaole housing to low-income people Needs: Volunteers to renovate houses Contact: Kevin Mundy -234-8465 Neighborhood Housing Services: Objective: To promote home improvements in the Near Northwest and 
Northeast neighborhoods of South Bend Needs: Volunteers to work on home improvement projects Contact: Neighborhood Housing Services -233-8335 HUNGER CONCERNS Foods hare: Objective: To feed the hungry in the South Bend area with food left over from the NO dining hall Needs: Volunteers to transport food after dinner Contact: Vibha Monteiro -283-4376 Overseas Development Network (ODN): Objective: To respond creatively to problems of world hunger and poverty 
see GROUPS/Page 4 
19R9 LEACUE LEADERS 
CAMPUS OUTREACH OPPORTUNITY LEAGUE 
(Wishes to recognize... 
FoodShare Program University of Notre Dame 
5'ls an inaiviaua{project wfiicfi addresses a particu{ar community need and ena6{es creative and vita{ worf(6y stuaents 
I
' >/ ~-1 >'/ 
•. '--4.-t-l.l.--...u,....­
-~!UL4~ IJJ __ 
---. -------,.--------­
fuha K S<'atliff. F.x('('UhVl' ;;otJor Jack H.a~aw.a, Chair COOl Board 



SERVICE/SOCIAL ACTION GROUP LEADERS -1989-90 
American Red Cross Patti Weed 5171 Logan Center John VanHarken 1881 Jeff Genato 3134 SMC Peggy Hoban 284-4357 Matt Burke 1989 NAACP Joe Watson 3804 
Amnesty International Jackie Uhll 2631 Corey Collins 1743 Anti-Apartheid Network John~auiCheckett 271-0742 ND/SMC Headstart Denise Talotta 2535 
Maeve O'Donovan 2650 NISDC (NISH) William O'Mahony 1765 Arnold Air Society (HQ) Chris Shank 2050 NSHP Jennifer Thoene 3725 Arnold Air Society (SQ) Vic Fehrenbach 3626 Patty Wogan 4231 Big Brothers/Big Sisters Brian Torok 1772 ODN Gina Perez 3445 
Trocy Swetz 287-9644 Pax Christi Jeff Long 2362 Center for Basic Learning Frank llgner 2355 Drew Buscareno 1722 CILA Mike McNerney 271-8860 
Right to Life Kathy Polachek 2509Greg Scheckler 1517 Michael Napierkowski 1722Circle K Nick Perry 2055 
Darryl Martin 4408 SAVE Cathi Dillon 4985 Coalition for Human Rights Jim DeMarco 3312 Council for Fun 'n Learn Peter Smith 3659 Shelter for the Homeless Diane Ricker 3950 
Kelly Morrisson 2620 Steve Raymond 287-2833 Laura Olszewski 2620 
STEP Brad Wolcott 3142Environmental Action Club James Dailey 1860 Food share Lisa Mackett 4937 Women United for Justice/Peace Theresa Berg 1348Habitat for Humanity Kevin MJndy 234-8465 
Kristin Komyatte 3812
Hispanic American Organization Diana Fuentes 4003 Jose Martinez 1062 World Hunger Coalition Meleah Potter 4229 Rachel Reyna 4900 Jackie Uhll 2631 
Center for Social Concerns paid advertisement 
WELCOME! 
Please take some time to read about these Center programs. 
The Center staff and I. have the privilege of being involved with students, faculty, and staff in these programs and other collaborative efforts each year. We hope you will come to know personally some of the special people and places described in this handout. 
I meet many alumni of CSC involvements who stress the importance of service, social action, and experiential learning for their current work in law. business, medicine, engineering, counseling, etc. 
Although we are well into the academic year, there are still many opportunities available through the Center. Please stop in at the Center, explore the challenges open to you. and propose new ideas and possibilities! 

Don McNeill. C.S.C.
1989 Summer Service Project participants gathered In September for liturgy 
Director 
and lunch with Fr. Malloy, followed by an afternoon of reflection. SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT: FILLING THE GAP 
"I think It is only fair to begin this report The Summer Service Projects are eight by saying that I have just had the best week sessions of community service set up summer of my entire life. There is through Alumni Clubs all over the country. something about Misericordia that becomes Ninety-four Notre Dame students took part a part of you once you have spent any length this summer. A tuition scholarship Is of time there. I never thought that one place awarded to each participating student. The or one group of people could have such a scholarships are provided by Notre Dame profound impact on my life. and, for the first Alumni Clubs and the James F. Andrews time, I feel like I might have made a Endowment. Every project is different. di!Terence in the lives of those I came into Students work in shelters for the homeless, contact with. There was something that soup kitchens, homes for abused children, seemed to be missing in my life before I came spouse abuse shelters, Headstart programs, to Misericordia, but that gap is now full--full camps for inner city children, etc., etc. An of love, friendship, memories, and Information Meeting for the 1990 SSP will be compassion. held at the Center on December 12 at 7:00 
Chris Hegg. SSP '89, Chicago. 1/1. P.M. Application deadline is February 2. 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES 
Workshops, seminars and other meetings enable seniors to consider the integration of service into their chosen careers and/or the advantages of a year or two of volunteer service, e.g. Peace Corps, Holy Cross Associates. Contact Mary Ann Roemer {239-5293). 
SENIOR RAP UP GROUPS 
Notre Dame seniors are invited to join about eight to ten of their classmates to form a senior rap up group. Approximately 125 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors participate in senior rap up groups. They gather approximately once a month in a faculty or staff home where they plan and prepare a meal followed by informal discussion that focuses on the plans and concerns that students have as they approach graduation. Contact Mary Ann Roemer (239-5293). 
ACADEMIC COURSES 
Theology Courses (Don McNeill, C.S.C. and stafO: Reading and reflection on issues raised by service experiences. Courses include: "Church and Social Action," "Theology and Community Service," "Reflections on Service," "Theology and Social Ministry." Other Justice and Peace Courses (Kathleen Maas Weigert): Study and analysis of contemporary ethical and moral issues related to justice and peace: "Introduction to Peace Studies," "Peace Movements in America," "Social Concerns in America: Homelessness." 
1989-90 Community Service Commissioners 
Alumni Ray Cihak 1150 Matt Cronin 1150 Badin Andrea Wong 3816 Breen-Phillips Theresa Berg 1348 Martha Clowdsley 1331 Carroll Coleman McMahon 4280 Cavanaugh Greg Miller 1489 Dillon Chris Poppe 1623 Farley Kate Monahan 4042 Fisher Joe Moreland 1872 Flanner Barry Shulock 1474 Grace Ralph Calico 1791 Holy Cross Paul Amann 3174 John Kinsella 3175 Howard Laura Cattaneo 2577 Keenan Bill Mordan 3340 Brian Davis 3367 Knott Lisa Mackett 4937 Lewis Barb lzzo 3468 Lyons Melanie Mason 2939 Morrissey Jeff Applewhite 3632 Tom Veltz 3626 Pangborn Jeff Long 2362 Mike Bossone 2385 Pasquerilla East Molly Rhadigan 4544 
Jenny Coyne 3829 Pasquerilla West Stephanie Seaman 3719 Siegfried Kelley Tuthill 4821 
Jill Miller 4821 Sarin Hall Kevin Kennedy St. Edward's Tom Hassett 1690 
Rob Pritchard 1717 Stanford Greg Butruss 2072 Walsh Leslie McCloskey 2630 Zahm Julio de Ia Rosa 4334 
ON LEARNING FROM THE PLUNGE 
"The mothers stressed how lucky the Notre Dame students are to be receiving such an education, and they hoped that we would be able to contribute to society to improve the lives of others. That, for me, was the important lesson of the Urban Plunge -the realization that we are getting an education not only for ourselves, but to make a contribution to society." 
This observation of a recent Urban Plunger is typical of the awareness of other students who make the Plunge. Early this year 388 students at 61 sites in 41 cities took part in the Urban Plunge -a 48-hour immersion into the kind of life most Notre Dame students have never seen. This year's Plunge will occur sometime during the week of January 6-13. Registration deadline is October 13. 
The purpose of the Plunge: to experience injustice, apathy and poverty; to increase awareness of people who are working to improve these situations; and to witness and reflect on ways to address Gospel concerns regarding the oppressed. 
Working Side by Side: APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Appalachia, the region of mountains that form the spiny backbone of the Eastern United States, are alive with nature's freedom and hill peoples' song. The mountains also tell a story of poverty and struggle. Coal is king there, they say. The story of Appalachia is one of hope. That hope is carried by students from Notre Dame, who each semester break, travel to Kentucky to share their gifts, celebrate the cultural richness of Appalachia, and work side by side with people yearning for justice. To be a part of the Appalachia Seminar, contact Mike Affieck, 239-7943. 
An Insider's Look: WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Over the fall break and again in the spring, 24 students from Notre Dame take an outsider's look at a frrst world capital in a third world city, Washington, D.C. For six very full days, you'll meet with the decision-makers in Congress, at the Pentagon and in the Church to discuss the human consequences of government policy. There is time and room enough for all points of view. There is time as well simply to visit Washington and take in a play at the Kennedy Center. The Washington Seminar-raising the issues with the people who know. For more information, contact Mike Affleck, 239-7943. 
CALL TO PEACEMAKING WEEK: November 5-11 
Each fall semester student organizations host a campus-wide series of events to discuss the issues surrounding our call to make peace. Through special guests, films, seminars and retreats, opportunities to explore the possibilities of a world at peace are yours. In the spring, the focus will shift to Central America in March and the Environment and the 20th Anniversary of Earth Day in April. Everyone is invited. For more information, call Mike Affieck at 239-7943. 
AND MORE ..• 
Hispanic Community Concerns (StafO: Opportunities for contact with programs serving the Hispanic community in South Bend and elsewhere. 
Latin America Programs (Staffl: Students study in Mexico for a semester or a year at the Universidad Iberoamericana or in the Program in Global Community of Cuernevaca. 

Pictured above (left to right): Mary Ann Roemer, Coordinator: Senior/Alumni Programs; Eugene McClory, Associate Director; Carol Porter, Secretary; Sue Cunningham, Coordinator: Urban Plunge and SUmmer Service Projects; Sandy Barton, Administrative Assistant; Kathleen Maas Weigert, Faculty Liaison/Academic Coordinator; Patty Flynn, Secretary-Receptionist; Michael Affleck, Coordinator: Justice and Peace Programming and Education; Ardis King, Secretary; Don McNeill, C.S.C., Director; Kathy Royer, Coordinator: Service/Social Action Groups. The work of the Center Is also facilitated by student managers and student assistants, by resource persons, and volunteers. 
1989-90 Center for Social Concerns 
For more information, call 239-5293 
I I '/' \._ _j i 
page3 

Center for Social Concerns paid advertisement ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••page 4 
Faculty And Staff Advisors To Student Groups 
American Red Cross Peter Womer




The Faculty And Center Activities 
Amnesty International NO Alan Howard 239-7412 
A variety of faculty-related activities is available through the Center. The FRIDAY FOIWM, a faculty-led talk/discussion series, meets three or four times each semester to examine a particular theme. 
The fall semester focuses on the university's theme, "The Year of the Family. • A university-wide faculty workshop on "Sexism and Racism in the Classroom • is being planned for the January break and the possibility of college-wide workshops is being explored. 
Faculty can offer their services for Center programs. Some serve as hosts and discussion leaders for the January follow-up session for the URBAN PLUNGE; in opening their homes for an evening to ·Plungers,• faculty offer the opportunity for students to reflect on and begin 
G~oups 
continued from page 2 
Needs: Volunteers for meetings and projects Contact: Gina Perez -283-3445 
...._ld h~<a!lihm 
Objective: To educate the community on issues related to world hunger and raise money for hunger relief Needs: Volunteers to fast every Wednesday for the noon meal in the dining hall Contact: Meleah Potter -283­4229 
PEACE AND JUSTICE CONCERNS 
~ AloiHESTY INTERNATIONAl 
Objective: To advocate human rights, work to free prisoners of conscience, stop torture and execution Needs: Volunteers for letter­writing to publicize in community and raise funds Contact: Jackie Uhll-283-2631 Anti-Apartheid Network: Objective: To increase awareness about the oppressive government of South Africa Needs: Volunteers to meet regularly and work on action projects Contact: John Paul Checkett ­271-0742 
CILA (Community for the International Lay Apostolate): 
Objective: To live a Christian service-oriented life-style through education, service projects, spiritual and social activities Needs: Volunteers to attend weekly meetings and to plan and participate in projects Contact: Greg Scheckler-283­1517 Coalition for Human Rights: Objective: To provide coordination of peace and justice events and activities Needs: Volunteers Contact: Jim DeMarco -283­
.. 3312 
Overseas Development 
Network (ODN): Objective: To respond constructively to problems of 
world hunger and poverty Needs: Volunteers for meetings and projects Contact: Gina Perez -283-3445 
r 
Pi!X 
0 b j e c t 1v e : 
the analysis of their Urban Plunge experience. 
Other faculty host small groups of seniors in the SENIOR RAP UP program; seniors meet in the faculty's home four or five times in the spring semester to converse about their undergraduate years at Notre Dame and to examine how social concerns are and will be integrated into their lives upon graduation. Still others volunteer to serve as advisors to the various service/social action groups affiliated with the Center. Finally, some faculty are invited to be speakers in such programs as the CALL TO PEACEMAKING (Fall semester) and PEACE WITH JUSTICE (Spring semester) weeks. 
If you are interested in getting involved in any of these opportunities, please contact Kathleen Maas Weigert (239-5319). 
Ch L
rifl i To raise 
consciousness on peace and justice issues Needs: Volunteers for bi­weekly meetings Contact: Jeff Long-283-2362 Right to Life: Objective: To educate the Notre Dame community about the issues of abortion Needs: Volunteers to plan programs and attend meetings Contact: Michael Napierkowski­283-2793 
~ WOMEN UNITED FOR ~ JUSTICE AND PEACE 
Objective: To educate the community on the power of common sisterhood to understand responsibilities in the world today and take appropriate action Needs: Volunteers to plan programs and attend meetings Contact: Theresa Berg -283­1348 
World Hunger Coalition: Objective: To educate the community on issues related to world hunger and to raise money for hunger relief Needs: Volunteers to fast every Wednesday noon to raise money for hunger relief Contact: Meleah Potter -283­4229 
PRISONERS, WORK WITH 
& 
DISMAS,Inc. Objective: To operate a community of former prisoners and students Needs: Students to live in the community and volunteers to cook and help maintain house Contact: Sal or Leo Harris ­233-8522 TUTORING/LITERACY PROGRAMS 
Center for Basic Learning Skills: Objective: To teach literacy skills to adults on a one-to-one 
basis Needs: Volunteers to work two hours one morning per week Contact: Frank llgner -283­2355 
Neighborhood Study Help Program: Objective: To tutor area children from kindergarten through high school Needs: Volunteers for one hour 
SOCIAL CONCERNS LUNCHES 
The Center Invites you to local and our global community. participate In our Social Concerns The sponsoring group prepares Lunches. The Center staff assists and serves a meal which generates students and social service groups proceeds that are used by the 
to sponsor lunches which focus on group to support their service Issues of social concern both In our programs. 
Center facilities include ••• 
. a coffee house, . a large multi-purpose room, . seminar rooms, . a resource room, 
• a library, and . a reflection room. Contact the Center receptionist to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, and other gatherings. 
t ' .~ I 1-J ' ~
-·~ ........................................ -.. -----..... --·----­
twice a week 
Contact: Jennifer Thoene -283­3725 
St. Hedwig's Neighborhood Center: Objective: To tutor children from the neighborhood served by St. Hedwig's Needs: Volunteers to tutor two hours per week Contact: Jeff Applewhite-283­3632 STEP (Student Tutorial Education Program): Objective: To tutor and provide support to young people who are in the South Bend Juvenile Detention Center Needs: Volunteer tutors two hours per week minimum Contact: Brad Wolcott -283­3142 VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AND PROBLEM PREGNANCY, SERVICES TO 
~ MADISON CENTER 
Objective: To provide crisis counseling and education for victims of rape Needs: Volunteers to respond to rape crisis situations and to give ongoing support to rape victims Contact: Laurel Eslinger -234­0061 Women's Care Center: Objective: To provide support and counseling to women who are experiencing problem pregnancies Needs: Volunteers to work with clients 
Anti-Apartheid Network  Peter Walshe  239-5099  
Arnold Air Society  Sheila Carty  239-6634  
Big Brothers/Sisters  Howard Saz  239-5543  
Center for Basic Learning  J. Keith Rigby  239-6245  
GILA  Don McNeill, C.S.C.  239-5319  
Cirde K  
Council for Fun & Learn  Sr. Jean Claire  
Council for the Retarded  William Thomas  
Dismas House  Leo and Sal Harris  
FoodShare  
G.A.L.A.  Albert LeMay  239-7109  
Habitat for Humanity  TomWerge  239-5398  
Hispanic American Org.  
NAACP  Erskine Peters  239-7269  
ND/SMC Headstart Program  Lois Clark  234-2150  
NISH  Ann Logamarcino  283-1765  
NSHP  James Roemer  239-6614  
mN  
Pax Christi  Rita Kopczynski  239-6483  
Right to Life  Janet Smith  239-7222  
SAVE  John Santos  239-5278  
Shelter for the Homeless  John Wilson, C.S.C.  239-6310  
STEP  Robert Vasoli  239-5091  
Thomas More Society  John Robinson  239-6980  
Women United for Justice  
& Peace  Kathleen Maas Weigert  239-5142  
World Hunger Coalition  Basil O'Leary  283-4538  

Contact: Women's Care Center­
234-0363 
Youth Services Bureau: 
Objective: To provide a safe 
place for teenaged children who 
cannot stay at home on a 
temporary basis 
Needs: Volunteers to spend 
time with Safe Station residents 
Contact: Youth Services 
Bureau -284-9396 
YWCA Women's Shelter: 
Objective: To give shelter to 
women in crisis as a result of 
physical abuse 
Needs: Volunteers to work at 
shelter and to collect soap, 
toiletries and nightwear 
Contact: YWCA-233-9491 
YOUNG CHILDREN, 
SERVICES TO / ,, 


G=;~-~ 
Objective: To provide a setting for shared time and friendship between a student and a child Needs: Student volunteers Contact: Brian Torok -283-1772 CILA (EI Campito Daycare Center): Objective: To give young children a safe, healthy environment while their parents are working Needs: Volunteers once a week for two hours to spend time with 
children one-to-one Contact: Mike McNerney -271­8860 Council for Fun and Learn: Objective: To provide a recreational/socialization program for 6-16 year old children Needs: Volunteers on Saturday from 9-11:30 a.m. Contact: Peter Smith -283-3659 
Headstart Program: •••.,. 0 b j e c t I v e : To 
::':~:' 
prepare young 
children for school 
Needs: Volunteers 
to work two hours 
per week in ----
Headstart classrooms with children on a one-to-one basis Contact: Denise Talotta -283­2335 
Madison Center (Day treatment for children) Objective: To create a healing 
environment for emotionally disturbed elementary school age children Needs: Volunteers to work in the classroom on a one-to-one basis Contact: Laurel Eslinger -234­0061 
1989 Martin Luther King Awareness Week 

One of the events of 1989 Martin Luther King Awareness Week was the film showing of King's "I Have a Dream" speech followed by a panel discussion, sponsored by NAACP and the Black Cultural Arts Council at the Center. Panelists pictured, left to right: Kenneth Durgans, Director of Minority Student Affairs· Jennifer Smith, Aetna Life Insurance; Dr. Roland Smith, Executive Assistant to Father Malloy, 'c.S.C.; Traci Aaron, Notre Dame Senior, President, Black Cultural Arts Council; Tony Rice, Notre Dame Quarterback; Lionel Coleman, Notre Dame Senior, President, NAACP. 

From The Editor's Desk 
This four-page special on the Calendar published several Center for Social Concerns times through the year in The focuses on the student service Observer. and through the CSC and social action groups and Newsletter, mailed primarily to 
social concerns programs and Center alumni. activities connected with the 
This paid advertisement isCenter for Social Concerns. 
made possible through theThere are other programs and cooperation of:activities conducted under the auspices of dorms and other 
The Observer staff who 
groups. 
assisted in its production. Current Information on Notre Dame Student Center programs and activities Government, which partiallyis available through the esc defrayed the cost. 
---------" 
' -----...... ·-... --·-·-....................................................-·-....... -· ··-·-···---· -·-·--------·---­
-The student groups that provided a writeup on their organizations. 
-Center Staff who shared material on their programs. 
-And you, the reader, whose interest and followup make all of this worthwhile. 
Thank you. 
Eugene J. McClory 

Friday, October 13, 1989 IRISH EXTRA 

Photo Courtesy of Air Force Sports Information 
Falcon QB Dee Dowis runs the unchecked wishbone offense. 
Dowis powers the potent Falcon wishbone offense 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
When he first recruited Dee Dowis, Air Force football coach Fisher DeBerry heard all of the stories. 
"He's too small." "He will never make it in Division 1." "He can't even see over the steering column of an F-12." 
At first, DeBerry didn't be­lieve the stories. A high school all-star with intentions of play­ing against the top teams in the country could not be this small. Then, DeBerry visited Dowis in his hometown of Royston, Ga. 
" I was told he wasn't very 
big, and when I got there he wasn't very big," DeBerry said. "I said to myself, 'He is small."' 
But DeBerry had an instinct that Dowis could make an im­pact in the Falcon program. He offered him a spot on the team, perhaps the best decision De-Berry has made in his six sea­sons at Air Force. 
"I didn't really think about my size that much," Dowis said. 
"I · JUSt wanted the chance to play somewhere and I got that
h E b d · 
c ance. very o y IS big in re­lation to me. When the game gets started, you don't have
· h' k b · 
t1me tot .m a out 1t." 
Dowis IS giving opposing de­fenses plenty to think about this season. He has led the Fa!­cons to a 6-0 start and a No.
. 17 ranking m the nation. Dowis averages 133.6 rushing yards per game, has scored 16 touch­downs and has passed for 369 yards. 
Those numbers have solidi-lied Dowis as a leading con­tender for the Reisman Trophy. He is now considered possibly the best option quarterback in 
the country. 
But it didn't start out that way for Dowis. He came out of high school at 5-foot-10, 147 pounds. The surprising aspect 
is that, after four years at Air Force, Dowis has gained just five pounds. 
"''ve tried eating a lot, and I still eat a lot, but I can't put on weight," Dowis said. ''I've tried them ~II, but they don't seem to work. 
Running the option leaves Dowis open to the big hit. Thus far, he has avoided that hit, leaving defenders puzzled as to how a quarterback like Dowis can stay away from defenders twice his size. 
"I feel real fortunate not to have been hurt," Dowis said. "That's part of the game. If you can't take a hit, you really shouldn't be playing. Size can
b d 
e an a vantage and a disad­vantage. Maybe they can't see you at times behind the line­
" 
men. 
Said DeBerry, "He has an un­canny ability to avoid the big hit. He understands what's happening in front of him. He can make instant decisions." 
In his freshman season, Dowis played in five games, 
IRISH OFFENSE ~f?:·':: 
,..-··_, 
"r"":.>f.' 
rushed 24 times for 39 yardsand one touchdown. The following year, he started 11 of 12 games and rushed for 1,315 yards, an NCAA rushing record for quarterbacks. In 1988, when Air Force fin­ished a disappointing 5-7, Dowis gained 972 yards on the ground and scored 12 touch­downs. Dowis passed for 870 
yards in 1988 and set an NCAA record for most completions in a game without an interception 
when he was 11-for-11 against Northwestern. 
But even with those impres" sive numbers, the critics still have a field day with Dowis. They still say he is too short, that he has not proven himself against the great teams. 
Dowis is in the perfect situa­tion to change that. He plays top-ranked Notre Dame Satur· day evening, at home, on na­tiona! television. And, best of all, he's on a roll. 
If Dowis can star against the Irish defense, he will surely be considered worthy of the Heis­man Trophy. 
"Once Dee Dowis gets on the perimeter, he has excellent quickness and he'll sprint to the corner and outrun most peo­pie," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "If he's not on the perimeter, he'll let you outrun him, tuck it under and out-sprint everybody." 
This game is also being billed as the battle of the option quarterbacks-Dowis and Notre 
.-~----------------~~~~----~~~~----~~ 
TACKLE 
61 Pat McNelis 
74 Thomas Maurer 
LINEBACKER~
95 J. T. Tokish 59 Mark Lyons 
NOSE GUARD 
75 Tom Kafka TACKLE 
96 Steve Brennan 81 Lane Beene 
86 Dan Mullins 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
INSIDE LINEBACKER~ 
42 Terry Walker 41 Bill Price 


CORNERBACK~ 
27 Eric Faison bJ 14 Bobby Thomas FREE SAFETY ~ 
18 Mario Mathis 25 Shannon Yates ~ INSIDE LINEBACKER 
46 Brian Hill 51 Doug Young 
"f!4 
~ CORNERBACK STRONG SAFETY 5 Rob Uetzke 
19 Mike Betance 151van Pickett 21 Mike Jurries 
AIR FORCE DEFENSE 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER
45 Randle Gladney 98 Clifton Lovelace 
CORNERBACK 1 Todd Ly9ht21 Rod Sm1th 
AF dominates in early '80s 
By VIC LOMBARDI Sports Writer 
Remember when Air Force football ruled over Notre Dame? 
The Falcons swept four straight victories from the Irish during-ahem, you guessed it-the Faust era. Those four losses (1982-85), which followed a decade of Notre Dame dominance, rep­resent the only losses on a 14-4 Irish series advantage. 
Time Capsule 
The Falcons were no longer patsies. Beating the Irish for the first time at Colorado Springs in 1982 gave them confidence and momentum. The following season, the cadets even had the gall to come into Notre Dame's imposing home con­fines and defeat Faust's 
squad 23-22. Falcon defensive lineman Chris Funk blocked Mike Johnston's potential game-
winning field goal with four seconds left to give Notre Dame its third straight loss 
of a dismal 6-5 season. The1983 tailspin marked the first time since 1963 that the Irish couldn't reach the .500 mark in Notre Dame Sta­dium. 
Air Force opened the game with a fly-by, naturally. The Falcons flew to a quick 10-0 lead on a 45-yard field goal by Sean Pavlich and a two-yard TD run by John Kersh­
ner. On the touchdown drive, 
the Falcons caught the Irish defense off guard with a fake field goal attempt. Pavlich set up for the field goal on fourth and three from the 10-yard line, but his holder Greg Zolninger took the snap and whipped it to Von Cameron, who scam­pered to the five yard line for the first down. Kershner punched it in two plays later. 
Midway through the sec­ond quarter, senior Blair Kiel replaced freshman starter Steve Beuerlein at quarterback. Kiel got the Irish on the board in a hurry. After a couple of long tosses to Milt Jackson and Chris Smith, Kiel handed off to tailback Allen Pinkett for a 41-yard gallop to the seven-yard line. On the next play Pinkett, who had 120 of his game-high 197 yards in the first half, scored with a seven-yard jaunt around the left end. 
A 14-point underdog, Air Force earned some early re­spect with a 10-7 halftime edge over there biggest nemesis. 
But the Irish got it going in the second half, scoring on three straight possessions. Johnston capped a 61-yard third­quarter drive with a 37 -yard field goal to knot the game at 10. Pinkett accounted for 57 yards in the drive, in­cluding a 37 -yard haul over the middle. 
A Kiel to Jackson touch­down toss gave Notre Dame a 16-10 edge on its very next possession. On third and goal, Kiel lofted a high pass to the right corner of the endzone where Jackson hauled it down for the touchdown. But the Falcons blocked what proved to be a crucial extra point attempt on the next play. 
No problem. The Notre Dame defense stopped the Ground Force running at­tack on the next series. Kiel, enjoying a career day 285 yards passing and two touchdowns, picked up where he left off by hitting 
see CAPSULE, page 4 
Dame's Tony Rt'ce. Both are h h · 
w en e Is putting up Heisman-legitimate Reisman candidates, like numbers and playing the and the wt'nners of Saturday's t k d · h
op-ran e team m t e country.
contest could possibly jump in "As far as me, I haven't the driver's seat. changed," Dowis said. "The "It's not a 1-on-1 tht'ng," sat'd d h' h
way we o t mgs asn't
Dow1's, who wants to be a changed. I·t s just a lot busier. graduate assistant next season. "I don't like to Jose. We're "It's Air Force against Notre going out there and do our Dame. I th1'nk Tony would say best.They can talk about the the same tht'ng." H · aII want. It
etsman theyDowt's prefers to stay 1·n the doesn•t matter to me if I get 1 shadows of his team. That is yard or 100, as long as we win becoming increasingly difficult the game." 
r------------~----~~--~~~~~-----------­
AIR FORCE 
HALFBACK ~ 
OFFENSE 34 Chris Howard 
24 DeShawn Durham WIDE RECEIVER 83 Steve Senn
11 Dan Zdroik ~ TACKLE
f.!"' 
67 Terry Carr 


ww.,~~,"-" ·~·J 
90 Lee Jones GUARD 
62 Steve Wilson 77 Steve Heinlein 
HALFBACK ,. 40 Greg Johnson 4 Ron Gray 
FULLBACK 29 Rodney Lewis 30 Jason Jones 
QUARTERBACK -6Deepowis 
~ 7 Lance McDowell 


" " ,_~~~~
CENTER GUARD 56 Paul Walski 53 Kevin Bell 69 Brent Merritt 63 Greg Burger 
IRISH DEFENSE NQSETACKLE 
50 Chris Zorich TACKLE 99 Troy Ridgley TACKLE 
93 Bob Dahl 90Jeff Aim 
:!~~~~YE~~D' ~5~.niorBry~ M ~~8~/oi;~:IVE
Y ~ ~ Y V 45 Devon~~~~~:~t; INGSIDE LIN!SBACKER A P. INSIDE LINEBACKER
3 Donn Gnmm 47 Ned Bolcar 30 Nick Smith 48 Michael Smalls

P. ; , : 
FREE SAFETY ~ 
15 Pat Terrell 00 27 Poorman 
IRISH EXTRA Friday, October 13, 1989 
down." son fielded the ball at his own one-yard touchdown plunge This Saturday against Air nine-yard line, swept through a and Pavlich gave the Falcons a
Defense apsu e 
Force's wishbone offense, swarm of Falcon jerseys and 23-22 lead on the point-after.
continued from page 1 
continued from page 3 
Kowalkowsi will be put on the dashed 91 yards to the endzone. Notre Dame had one more 
the opportunity to play. But one spot because of Air Force's ex­end Joe Howard on a 67-yard Dozens of exuberant Irish fans shot with 1:30 remaining. play does stand out in my mind, ceptionally talented quarter­scoring bomb. But the Irish swarmed the field in jubilation. Beuerlein completed three first­it is the first play of the season back Dee Dowis, the conductor again failed on the point-after Game over, right? down passes to Pinkett for 16, when I made the first hit of this dangerous attack. when a Kiel to Jackson two­Nope. The touchdown was 13, and 10 yards to move the against Virginia, my father's "I'll tell you Air force is a point conversion attempt fell called back because of a clip­ball to the Air Force 14-yard alma-mater." good team," explains incomplete. That made the ping penalty. And those impa­line. With :28 seconds left, 
Has Kowalkowski's adjust­Kowalkowski. "Dee Dowis is a score 22-10, Notre Dame. tient fans roaming the playing Faust let the clock tick all the 
heck of a talent. He is real elu­triggered huge way down to
ment from a backup role to an field a un­:04 seconds. Air integrate part of the Irish de­sive and no one has gotten a The Ground Force revved sportsmanlike penalty to boot. force then called a timeout. 
good lick on him this year.! their engines in the fourth pe­
fense been difficult'? With their backs against the hoping to ice the senior kicker. "Well, to tell you the truth, look at it as a challenge and the riod. It took quarterback Marty wall, the Irish were forced to "We called an extra timeout 
the first game I played tentativ~ option is my responsibility. Air Louthan six plays to produce punt. and told some of our players to 
six points. The Falcons made
for the first part of the first Force is a good team.It will be go for the block and some to go quarter," said Kowalkowski. a hard fought battle but if the score 22-16 when Louthan The Ground Force took the high because he's a low kicker," 
things go right we will come nailed a wide-open Mike Kirby lead with an 11-play, 74-yard
"Coming out of the tunnel in the said Falcon coach Ken 
out on top." with a 48-yard touchdown toss. touchdown drive. Halfback
Meadowlands, I had the worst llatfield. 
And one can help but believe Pavlich's extra-point flew wide Mike Brown (148 yards) and Funk jumped high over the
ease of butterflies.lt was my 
him. That is, if he doesn't for­right as both kickers had trou­fullback Kershner plowed Notre Dame and pawed the ball
first game that I started and it was in front of 80,000 people get that strange pre-game ble splitting the uprights. through the Irish defense on to the turf. The block was his 
ritual with his pants. Moreover. On the ensuing kickoff, Notre nine straight rushing plays. second of the afternoon, t.hP
and national television. But Kershner tied the game with a
after the first hit, I settled one can't argue with success. Dame freshman Alonzo Jeffer-third for thn Falcons. 
IRISH ST ATS FALCONS STATS 
TEAM STATISTICS OPP RECEIVING NO YOS AVG TO LG TEAM STATISTICS AF OPP PASSING C A % YOS TO INT LG 
Ismail 14 308 22.0 0 52 Dowis 21 48 .435 369 3 0 44 
TOTAL OFFENSE 1869 1313 Watters 7 121 17.3 0 32 TOTAL OFFENSE 3157 2241 McDowell 3 4 .750 52 1 0 26 
Total Plays 353 339 Brown 6 113 18.8 0 38 Total Plays 434 409 Gray 1 1 1.000 42 0 0 42 
Yards per Play 5.3 3.9 Johnson 5 45 9.0 1 18 Yards per Play 7.3 5.5 AF 25 53 .472 463 4 0 44 
Yards per Game 241.0 93.8 Belles 2 25 12.5 0 17 Yards per Game 526.2 373.5 Opponents111 192 .5761579 9 7 NA 
PENALTIES· YARDS 26-241 19-144 I. Smith 1 18 18.0 0 18 PENAL TIES-YARDS 25-189 41-292 
FUMBLEs-LOST 7-6 13-7 Eilers 1 9 9.0 0 9 FUMBLES-LOST 11-6 9-5 RUSHING NO YOS AVG TO LG 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 97 81 T. Smith 1 8 8.0 0 8 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 152 118 Dowis 74 802 10.8 13 60 'I 
By Rushing 69 28 R. Griggs 1 7 7.0 0 7 By Rushing 124 40 Lewis 81 584 7.2 0 54 
By Passing 25 42 Mihalko 1 6 6.0 0 6 By Passing 20 72 Johnson 66 396 6.0 12 32 
By Penalty 3 11 Levens 1 4 4.0 0 4 By Penalty 8 6 Gray 29 181 6.2 1 45 
THIRD OOWNS·CONV. 23-72 27-79 NO 40 664 16.6 1 52 THIRD OOWNS-CONV. 78-41 82-33 Howard 29 152 5.2 3 35 
% .444 .342 Opponents 101 544 8.4 8 30 % .526 .402 McDowell 11 77 7.0 1 23 
POSSESSION TIME 161:43 137:17 POSSESSION TIME 3:10:35 2:50:25 Zdroik 2 53 26.5 0 36 
Per Game 32:24 27:36 Rich 13 38 2.9 0 11 
RUSHING NO YOS AVG TO LG Durham 8 30 3.8 0 7 
SCORING TO R P R PA FG TP Rice 68 365 5.4 2 38 Wosilus 7 29 4.1 0 9
SCORING TO Ru. P Rt PA FG TP 
Johnson 8 7 1 0 0-0 0-0 48 Johnson 74 291 3.9 7 25 Worthington 3 9 3.0 0 4
Dowis 13 13 0 0 0 0 78 
Hentrich 0 0 0 0 15-16 6·1 0 33 Watters 49 223 4.6 4 53 Kuhl 2 8 4.0 0 4
Johnson 12 1 2 0 0 0 0 72 
Watters 4 4 0 0 0-0 0-0 24 Culver 27 123 4.6 2 15 Neal 1 2 2.0 0 2
Wood 0 0 0 0 30 7 51 
Ismail 2 0 0 2 0-0 0-0 12 Ismail 22 95 4.3 0 25 AF 381 2694 7.1 31 60
Howard 3 3 0 0 1 0 20 
Rice 2 2 0 0 0-1 0-0 12 Mirer 7 25 3.6 0 11 Opponents 217 662 3.1 9 NA
Senn 2 0 2 0 0 0 12 
Culver 2 2 0 0 0-0 0-0 12 Brooks 9 24 2.7 0 8 McDowell 1 1 0 0 1 0 8 
Aim 1 0 0 1 0-0 0-0 6 Mihalko 5 20 4.0 0 7 1 1 0 0 6 YOS AVG TO LG
Jones 0 0 RECEIVING NO 
Hackett 0 0 0 0 1-2 0-0 1 Belles 4 13 3.3 0 6 Gray 1 1 0 0 0 0 6 11 236 21.5 2 42 NO 19 15 1 3 16-19 6-10148 Eilers 3 13 4.3 0 8 VanHuizen 1 0 1 0 0 0 6 Senn 8 131 16.4 1 44
VanHuizen
Opponents 8 0 8 0 5-8 5-5 69 Graham 1 5 5.0 0 5 0 0 2 20.0 0 26
Jones 1 0 1 0 6 40
Wocxi>
Setzer 5 4 0.8 0 4 
Lewis 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 1 10 10.0 0 10
ZdroikLevens 3 4 1.3 0 4
PASSING C A % YOS TO INT LG AF 35 31 4 0 33 7 267 Howard 1 14 14.0 0 14 Rice 35 60 .583 615 1 2 52 Boyd 1 2 2.0 0 2 Opp. 18 9 9 0 11 2 128 Johnson 1 16 16.0 0 16 
A. Griggs 1 -2 -2.0 0 -2 1 16
1 16 16.0
Mirer 4 12 .333 41 0 1 18 Jones
NO 279 1205 4.3 15 53 2 44
463 Opponents 162 469 2.9 0 36 9 NA 
Graham 1 2 .500 8 0 0 8 AF 25 18.5 
NO 40 74 .541 664 1 3 52 Opponents 111 1579 14.2 Opponents101 1 77 .571 844 8 11 30 
DEPTH CHARTS 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE AIR FORCE DEFENSE AIR FORCE OFFENSE 
SE 13 Pat Ellers 5-11 193 Sr. RE 37 Scott KowalkkoW!Ikl 6·2 226 ..... CLB 95 J.T. Toklsh 6-2 225 ..... Wl 83 Steve Sann 5-10 160 Sr. 63 Tony Smith 6·2 187 So. 45 Devon McDonald 6-3 226 So. 59 Marl< Lyons 6·1 240 Sr. 11 Dan Zdroik 5·10 160 Jr. ar 64 Mike Brennan 6-5 260 Sr. LT 93 Bob Dahl 6-5 263 ..... DT 61 Pat McNelis 6-2 245 Fr. TE 82 Trent Van Hulzen 6-3 220 Sr. 53 Winston Sandri 6·4 275 Jr. 95 Junior Bryant 6-5 270 Fr. 71 Thomas Maurer 6·4 240 So. 90 Lee Jones 6-3 215 Jr. 00 52 Tin RyiWl 6·4 259 ..... NT 50 Chris ZOrich 6-1 268 ..... ILB 42 Terry Walker 6-1 207 Sr. L T 79 Scott Hollister 6-1 245 Sr. 61 Tom Gorman 6·6 265 Sr. 99 Troy Ridgley 6·4 250 So. 41 Bill Price 5·10 215 Jr. 56 Mike Lehnhardt 5·11 230 Jr. 
c 55 Mike Heldt 6-4 265 ..... Rr 90 Jell Am 6-7 270 Sr. NG 75 Tom Kalka 6-4 250 Sr. LG 53 Kevin Bell 6-3 240 Sr. 
76 Gene McGuire 6·5 259 So. 81 Eric Jones 6-6 225 Fr. 96 Steve Brennan 6·1 215 Jr., 63 Greg Burger 6·1 249 Jr. 
TG 75 Tlm Grunhard 6-3 292 Sr. DE 7 Andre Jones 6-4 215 ..... ILB 46 Brian Hill 5-11 205 ..... C 56 Paul Walski 6-0 235 ..... 
74 Mirl<o Juri<Ovic 6-5 279 So. 98 Shawn Smith 6-3 206 Fr. 51 Doug Young 6-1 215 Jr. 69 Brent Merritt 6·1 235 Sr. 
TT 71 Dean Brown 6-3 291 Sr. ElB 36 DonnGr1mm 6·2 231 ..... DT 81 Lane Beene 6·3 225 ..... FG 62 Steve Wilson 6·2 245 Sr. 
72 Joe Allen 6·4 288 Jr. 30 Nick Smith 6-3 225 Fr. 46 Dan Mullins 6-2 230 Sr. 77 Steve Heinlein 6·6 230 So. 
TE 85 Denlk Brown 6-7 235 So. t.t..S 47 Ned Bolcar 6·2 229 Sr. OLB 45 Randle Gladney 6·0 200 Sr. Rr 87 Terry Carr 6-1 235 Sr. 
68 Frank JacobS 6-5 234 Jr. 48 Michael Smalls 6-3 223 So. 96 Clifton Lovelace 6·4 210 .... 57 David Young 6·1 220 So. 
(JI 9 Tony Aloe 6·1 200 Sr. FCB 1 ToddLyghl 6-1 181 So. FAL 19 Mike Balance 6·2 196 Sr. <JI 6 Dee Dowis 5-10 153 Sr. 
3 R1ck M~rer 6·3 205 Fr. 21 Rod Smith 6-1 183 So. 21 Mike Jurries 6-0 190 Sr. 7 Lance McDowell 5·8 170 Sr. 
FB 22 Anthony JohntiOI'I 6-0 220 Sr. SCB 29 Stan Smagala 5-11 186 Sr. FS 18 Mario Mathis 6·0 200 Sr. LHB 40 Greg Johnaon 6-3 196 Sr. 
35 Ryan M1halko 6·2 234 Jr. 19 Shawn Davis 6-0 181 So. 25 Shannon Yates 6-0 200 Sr. 4 Ron Gray 5·10 185 So. 18 12 Rk:ky Watton~ 6-2 199 ..... ss 32 D'Juan Francisco 5-11 182 Sr. sc 5 Rob Lietzke 6-1 185 Sr. FHI 34 Chris Howard 5-11 185 ..... 
5 Rodney Culver 6·0 219 So. 26 Greg Davis 6-1 198 Jr. 15 Ivan Pickett 6-0 196 Fr. 24 DeShawn Durham 5-6 178 So. 
R. 25 Raghlblt11T1811 5-10 175 So. FS 15 Pat Terrell 6·0 195 Sr. we 21 Eric FalcOn 6-0 172 ..... FB 29 Rodney Lewis 6·1 190 ..... 8 Steve Belles 6-4 217 Sr. 27 George Poorman 6·2 191 So. 14 Bobby Thomas 5·8 163 So. 30 Jason Jones 5·10 195 So. 
K 28 Craig Hentrlch 6-1 175 Fr. p 28 Craig Hentrlch 6-1 175 Fr. 18 Bll H ck tt 6 1 194 Jr 16 Jim Saxton 6 0 183 Jr 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS .:~·-. ::~~ 
are compiled as to how each 
Steve Megargee Molly Mahoney Greg Guffey ieather Atkinson Theresa Kelly Margaret Haugh Jim Nantz
person does against the spread. In 
Associate Assistant Assistant SMC
other words, it isn't enough to Sports Editor Random Student Guest Celebrity 
Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor 27-29 33-23 26-30pick the winner of a given game. 
34-22 33-23 32-24 28-28 .482 .589 .464
The person must pick the winner 
.589 .571 .500
an_d give the underdog points. .607 Last week: Last week: Last week: 
Last week: Last Week: Last week: Last week: 7-7 8-6 7-79-5 
9-5 9-5 6-8 Colorado 26.5 over IOWA ST. Cyclones Buffalos Cyclones Cyclones Cyclones Buffalos Cyclones WASHINGTON 4 over Oregon Huskies Huskies Huskies Ducks Huskies Ducks Huskies Arkansas 9 over TEXAS TECH Red Raiders Razorbacks Red Raiders Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Red Raiders Baylor 29 over SMU Mustangs Bears Mustangs Bears Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs Aorlda St. 16 over VIRGINIA TECH Seminoles Seminoles Hokies Hokies Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Ucla 1 over ARIZONA Bruins Wildcats Bruins Bruins Wildcats Bruins Wildcats Houston 9 over TEXAS A&M Cougars Cougars Aggies Aggies Cougars Aggies Cougars Oklahoma 18 over TEXAS Sooners Sooners Longhorns Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners AUBURN 9 over Louisiana St. Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers SYRACUSE 3 over Penn St. Orangemen Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Orangemen Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions PITISBURGH 26 over Navy Panthers Panthers Panthers Midshipmen Panthers Midshipmen Panthers Michigan 6 over MICHIGAN ST. Spartans Spartans Wolverines Spartans Wolverines Wolverines Spartans OHIO ST. 2.5 over Indiana Hoosiers Hoos1ers Hoosiers Buckeyes Hoosiers Buckeyes Hoosiers Notre Dame 13 over AIR FORCE Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 


Friday, October 13, 1989 page 11 

Indian cuisine 
in a hypnotic atmosphere 


that large amounts of water will be needed to quench an in­flamed mouth. The Malabar chef is careful to temper these flavors for patrons who have not had much acquaintance with this sort of food. 
It is in the side dishes, how­ever, that the cooking staff fal­ters almost to the point of me­diocrity. The basmati rice appears to be no more than dry, nearly bland, yellow saf­fron rice. The yogurt sauce is welcome here for extra moist­ness. The pita bread, called "nan" on the menu, doesn't even deserve comment. The katchumber was replaced by 
.e. frozen broccoli on our night, r and seemed inconsistent with the rest of the food on the gi­
siz-gantic plates. Yet, the potato 
1f bhaji was a blessing. Perfectly 
'er cooked potato chunks are 
[e mixed with fresh pHas in a 
r1 a translucent piquant dressing. If there had beHn more bhaji, we e could have done without the t unremarkable rice and broe­
g. coli. ith On weekends, the menu be­ll eomcs a little more varied with 
re prawn and fish dishes. The Mal­ot, abar fish eurry sounds and 
rs' 

yCenter 
available. 
At 5 p.m., winning raffle tick­ets will be chosen. Donations for tickets arB $1 for one, or $5 
)-for six. The grand prize is a two night stay for a family of four at the Hotel Hershey in Penn­
liy. sylvania. Second prize is two Notre Dame/Navy tickets, and the third place winner will re­ceive a free weekend stay at the Marriott. 
lr Admission is $5 for adults, $3 r for children under 12, and free for those under two. So, get 
ltef there early before all the good desserts arc gone, and satisfy your sweet tooth while helping out a charity. 
promises to be delightful, "spe­cially selected pieees of fish marinated in spices and co­conut milk and simmered over a fire." 
Your best course of action at the Malabar is to engage heav­ily in the complimentary pa­padams, drink some wine, and order a less expensive dish, as a higher price does not seem to be an indicator of greater quali­ty or quantity. In addition, ask the waitress to give you a dou­ble serving of potato bhaji in­stead of the basmati rice. The katchumber, if you receive it, would probably be a pleasant complement for the pita bread. 
Overall, the excellent service, hypnotic aura, and delightful array of unknown foods make the Malabar a welcome addi­tion to the South Bend com­munity. Perhaps, in a year or so, the side dishes will reach the same level of sophistication as the main courses. Until then papadams, papadams, pa­padams, and beware Dean Waddick, Father Griffin and eompany --the entire restaurant is non-smoking! 
r--------------------------.. style (I wonder if something 
M was lost in the translation.) 
L­
5 In addition to the silvery cov­er and the white outfits the band wears, several songs also deal with a slick, streamlined, Jetsons-like future. In "Speed is the Key," Bjork sings of being the "future woman" and a "space girl," and the future theme is continued in "Dear Plastic" and "Planet." Some songs can get quite confused and muddled at times, espe­cially in "Dream TV," in which life is a rerun, "Nail," in which Bjork denies being an "emotion­al biscuit." "Shoot Him" is so in­undated with noises and screams that one wonders why it was even included on the al­bum. Better songs include the more upbeat "Bee," "A Day Called Zero," and "Eat the Menu," a song dealing with the theme of too much choice in life, covered by the previous al­bum's title, "Life's Too Good." 
The best songs are the most melodic, when Einar is the qui­etest and Bjork displays her ex­traordinary vocal talent, some­times hidden by the harsh aspects of the Cubes' music. "Pump" is a slower, Latin­tinged song with some haunt­ing wind instruments, combin­

•






review 
Progressive bands streamline their sounds 
JASON WINSLADE accent writer 
The SugatCubes ''Here Today, Tomorrow, Next Week" 
Y
ou may know plenty of American bands. You are probably aware of the British invasion. But, how about those crazy Icelandic bands? You don't know any, you say? Well, one of the hottest under­ground bands today hails (no pun intended) from that cold lit­tle country up north. They are the Sugar Cubes. Recently returning from a tour opening for Public Image Ltd. and New Order, the Cubes have released their second American album, "Here, Today, Tomorrow, Next Week," the follow-up to their extremely popular "Life's Too Good." The Cubes have now es­tablished their own brand of Icelandic rock 'n' roll, made notorious by the child-like, yet powerful and sexual voice of lead singer Bjork, and by the raspy, insane shouts of vocalist and trumpeter Einar. The Sugar Cubes continue 
their ecleetic style on "Here To­
day...," progressing as most 
bands do, with increased key­
board usage, a trumpet section 
and string selections. Unfortu­
nately, Einar's annoying voice 
is more prevalent on this al­
bum, and may prove to be the 
album's downfall. 
"Here Today ..." opens with the island-influenced "Tidal Wave," complete with steel drum sounds. It is followed by the album's first single "Regi­na" which has a catchy chorus and demands "Give me lobster and fame!," adhering to the Cubes' usual off-the-wall lyrical 
ing sexual imagery with food. 
"Water" is an atmospheric song 
in which even Einar mellows 
out. The best track on the al­
bum is the final one, "Planet," 
in which Bjork sings of "the 
planets, the universe, and me." 
The song contains an ethereal 
string section, which aetually 
puts the listener in the mind of 
floating through space. 
"Here, Today, Tomorrow, 
Next Week" is an enjoyable al­
bum. Once one gets through 
some of the confusion and 
shouts, some very talented mu­
sicians ean be found. Excellent 
guitar work is present on the al­
bum, whieh features acoustic 
and mellow styles along with 
the band's usual harsh sound. 
Bjork's voice can be both rivet­
ing and haunting. Einar's voice 
presents an interesting con­
trast, with a subliminal mes­
sage beyond the regular lyrics. 
Through the album's title and 
themes as well as the style of 
the album cover, the Sugar 
Cubes try to be the band of the 
future. They might even suc­
ceed. 
The Mighty Lemondrops "Laughter" 
"Laughter~ is the fourth al­bum by the British rock/pop band, The Mighty Lemon­Drops. The album presents the next logical step in their pro­gression as a band highly in­fluenced by early 60s British bands and such modern bands as Echo and the Bunnymen. Im­proving on the rough edges heard on previous efforts, the Drops have expanded their con­stricted style to take in more variations on voice, guitar, and rhythms. The album opens with the quick yet melodic "At Midnight." Songs, like the driv­ing, "The Heartbreak Thing" and the catchy. "Into the Heart of Love" are more indicative of the band's faster, club-oriented style. "Where Do We Go From Heaven" is an example of a more acoustic and haunting sound, and "The Real World" presents a more stylish pop sound replete with horns. "All That I Can Do" is a purely acoustic, blues-tinged ditty, adding to the newer contrasting styles. 
The album as a whole pre­sents a more sophisticated style with better mixing, more sound variation, and an underlying unity shown by the ease in which the songs are mixed into each other at the beginnings and ends. Lead vocalist and gui­tarist, Paul Marsh, backs him­self up in a more polished vocal style, which, together with im­proved mixing , lend a very lis­tenable and enjoyable sound to the album. More sophisticated effects, keyboard, harmonica, and horn additions supplement the band's improved style. The Mighty Lemon-Drops prove with "Laughter," that they are an excellent studio band as well as being an extremely talented live club band. 
·r~-·----p-a·:-e-,-2-------------~----------r-h_e_o_b_s_eN_e_r----------~------R~:o.~1~19~ 
An open letter to black students on campus 
A flyer that begins, "Yo! stroyed careers and shattered take their heads ofT. You may witch hunt to search out big­if blacks came, the Southerners 
B.C.A.C. members," has been lives, because the late, highly ask, "Were you ever in his otry. I will tell them that they would leave Notre Dame to at­circulating on campus. It says, imaginative Senator Joe Mc­class?" The answer is, "No, and are too powerful as a minority tend secular colleges, where "Many students in Rev. George Carthy claimed to have evidence I've never seen 'The Last group to be comfortable about their souls would be endan­Wiskirchen's lntro to Jazz class that the Commies had invaded Temptation of Christ' either, carrying witch hunts when they gered. Maybe this seems sillyhave reported that they have the government. but I haven't hesitated to de­feel offended. The spectacle of now, but that's because you 
heard Rev. Wiskirehen make Now some representative fend it. I've never been to Med­a witch hunt directed against a don't understand what the 
jugorje either, but I have not teacher could come back to Catholic ghetto mind was like. hesitated to attack it. What haunt blacks, unless their in­Father Hesburgh, thank God,Father Robert Griffin kind of fool does that make tention is to traumatize the turned things around, and Fa­me?" faculty with an exhibition of ther Malloy is trying to turn 
Letters to a Lonely God I know from teaching English Black Power. them around even more. how sensitive a teacher must be Other minorities, you see, can A number ofyears ago, I no­about stepping on black sensi­complain to their heart's con­ticed, from their report eards, derogatory eomments about black leaders are advertising tivities. Out of deference to the tent of discrimination, but who that a number of blaek athletes black music and the black race. for students, black or white, feelings of his students, the really cares? But nothing stops were enrolled in a Latin course, ..Two attempts have already willing to testify that Father teacher discussing "Huck the presses quicker than a though none of them knew an been made to resolve this prob­Wiskirchen has been making Finn," might rightfully refer to black student shouting ablative absolute from a hole in lem by directly confronting Hev. racist remarks to his classes. the black hero as "Jim," rather "Bacism!" Why is this so? Be­the ground. They wen~ taking a Wiskirchen, as well as meeting In over 40 years at Notre than "Nigger Jim," as he's cause Notre Dame needs the dead languagn, apparently as a with school authorities. How­Dame, I've never seen anything called in the novel. But yet, it blaek students more than the cultural experienee. bncause ever we are not satisfied with that looks so much like the should be remembered that he's black students need Notre this kind of exposurP didn't re­their response to our complaint opening manifesto of a witch a runaway slave; without being Dame? Every college in the quirl' them to do the homework 
... and will pursue the matter fur­hunt as the black statement an Uncle Tom, he's as gentle as country needs its blacks and of learning grammar. A mind is ther. Any of you who have had printed on green paper. What a a black Christ figure. lluck, the other racial minorities. Even a tnrribln thing to waste. The this eourse and have felt that load of injustice can be dumped Southern white boy who knows the Ivy League schools have black community knows this his lectures have presented on this gentle priest, if imagi­this slave as "Nigger Jim," quotas which their admissions better than anyone; that's whyblack music and the black raee native students-too young to makes a solemn decision to go ofliees can't fill. thPy search for funds to send negatively, please eontact the know what he's talking about to hell rather than send him The head count of blacks on the children to colleg1~. If the offkers of the B.C.A.C. Only when he refers to black culture baek to slavery. You could campus is important, not just colleges waste the minds of the with your cooperation will we as it was 50 or 100 years ago­rewrite the text. but why would for the sake of the school's im­children who enroll then~. this be able to present a strong ar­are enticed into dissecting his you want to? Maybe black peo­age, but because of the per­is a crime calling out to heaven 
gument and begin to eliminate lectures in a search for the in­ple don't need lessons in how sonal treasure those blacks for vengeance. This is the rrirn1~ all forms of racial injustice on sults. Whitey has treated the blacks, bring with them when they black students should be vigi­the Notre Dame campus." I don't believe for a moment but the white students right come. Because they are so lant in stopping.
I'm happy to take the black that Father Wiskirchen is a here at Notre Dame need them; needed, the University is willing FathPr George does not need students at their word when racist, and I've known him for as the saying goes, "Those to fall over backwards to meet me to eome to his assistance. they express an interest in since we were together in the who forget history are doomed their needs when they get here. lie's a lovable man and a faith­eliminating racial injustice at seminary. He's a comie, a co­to repeat it." Any minority group that has ful priest, who never knowinglyNotre Dame. But when has a median, and a mimic with a tal­What happens in a literature sueh eollective power should bl) hurt anybody, least of all his witch hunt ever been anything ent for making fun of stereo­class can happen mutatis mu­careful about throwing their students. Every lloly Cross other than counter-productive? types; but in the end, he makes tandis in a music class. If Fa­weight around. prinst and brother is proud of The witeh hunt in Salem ended sure that truth has the last ther George's fault has been The old Notre Dame didn't tlw black students at Notrl' with blameless old women being word. I've never heard him pointing out things that parallel have a great track reeord in Dame; but nonn of us is happy hanged, after they were speak derogatorily of blacks saying "Nigger Jim," instead of anti-discrimination. For many to seP a community membPr convicted-on the evidence and their culture, and I don't keeping to plain "Jim," do you years, blacks weren't allowed hurt, or the black students d­given by imaginative children­think he would be tolerant of really want to start a witch in, because one lifth of the stu­thcr, bceaus1~ of a regn~table of trafficking with the devil. any racist who made such hunt to stop him? dents admitted were Catholics misunderstanding which raring The witch hunt that went on in derogatory remarks in his I will not tell blacks that they from the South. The University peopln should be abll) to resolw Washington in the 1950s de-presence; in fact, I think he'd are "too good" to instigate a administration was afraid that without a witch hunt. 

Happy 21st Elizabeth! 
Enjoy your first beer ever... Let us know how it tastes! 
Saturday. Oct 
14 
s·oopm 
Morns Clv1c 
AiidiiOrliiOJ 
all seats reservea 
SJ6 50 
Tickets on sale 
NOW 
C1v1c Box Off1ce N1ghtwmds. Record Connection & usual outlets CHARGE 284-9190 

Manufacturers Bank will be on campus to present career opportunities 1n Commercial Lending and Financial Analysis 
Tuesday October 17, 1989 7:00pm to 9:00pm Alumni Room Morris Inn 

Please see the Placement Office for further details 
Friday, October 13, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Th" Observer accepts class1f1eds every,bu: •. n8ss day frorn 10 a'" to 3 30 p n' at the Notre Dame off1ce. 314 LaFortune. C~nd from 12 30 to 3 p m at the Sa~nt Marys off1ce. Haggar College Center Deadline for next day clas"f,eds 1s 3 p m All class1f1eds must be 
prepa1d The charge IS 2 cents per character per day ~nclud1ng spac8'­


Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
TYPING term papers/reports/letts rs/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277­5134 10am-8pm. 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 
Typing. Term papers, resumes, etc. on IBM PC. Call Sue's Secretarial Service at 299-0063. 
WORDPROCESSING 272-8827 
TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277­5134 10am-8pm. 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 
Typing. Term papers. resumes. etc. on IBM PC. Call Sue's Secretarial Service at 299-0063. 
WORDPROCESSING 272-8827 
VALUE CHECKS are available at the lnfonmation Desk . If you have ordered one, please pick your book up at the Information Desk. 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
This Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vig1! at 12:15 p.m. Every Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vigils at 12:15 p.m. Admim. building 
WILLA CATHER. OSCAR WILDE. GERTRUDE STEIN. TCHAIKOVSKY. DO YOU BELONG TO THIS ELITE GROUP? 
CONTACT US. GLND/SMC PO BOX194 
NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
AVON Xmas show & product sale 10/15 6-8pm Turtle Crk Office bldg 277-5934 4 details 
SENIORSI SENIORS! SENIORS! JOin friends at Sr. Bar for the FRIDAY THE THIRSTEENTH 
bash! 
SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! 
ROCKET SHIRTS ? 277-5647 EVENINGS 
A DIRTY TANK IS A MAJOR CRIME­
CALL "TANKS ALOT" TO CLEAN YOUR SLIME! 'TANKS ALOT' 
Aquarium Service Call Mike at 255-2368 

LOST/FOUND 
LOST: MINOLTA FREEDOM ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED. NOT PAID FOR, VERY, VERY VALUABLE!!! CALL PETE AT #1863 ANYTIME! $100.00 REWARD. 
LOST: Signet Ring with initials WFH lost in south quad by Alumni. Important sentimental reasons. Please call Bill at 1553. You will be rewarded , I promise Thank you very much. 
LOST: MINOLTA FREEDOM ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, NOT PAID FOR, VERY, VERY VALUABLE!!! CALL PETE AT #1863 ANYTIME! $100.00 REWARD 
LOST: Signet Ring wrth initials WFH lost in south quad by Alumni. Important sentimental reasons. Please call Bill at 1553. You will be rewarded , I promise Thank you very much. 
Fri. night Club 23 I don't care about the coat, I only want the silver flowered barrett in the pocket PLEASE!! only momenta of deceased mother mo 3536 Springbrook Drive 
SB, IN 46614 (291-6428) 
LOST: A BLUE NOTRE DAME POUCH CONTAINING IMPORTANT PRESONAL IDENTIFICATION--NOTHING ELSE! REWARD UPON RETURN. NO QUESTIONS ASKED!!! CALL #4921. ASK FOR REGINA. 
LOST: Silver chain-link bracelet. Lost somewhere between Farley Hall and D2 parking 
lot. 
Please call Chris at 1836 Great sentimental value. 
A $20 reward for manila envelope (8 1/2 x 11 1/2) containing Spanish translations in process. Call 239-6166 or evenings 277­7043. 
LOST: THE FACE PART OF A HELBROS QUARTZ WATCH. IT FELL OFF THE BAND, ETC. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL KRISTEN AT #4865 AND I WILL THINK YOU ARE COOL. 
IF YOU FOUND A BASKETBALL NEAR THE BOOKSTORE COURTS ON SATURDAY NIGHT OCTOBER 7, I WOULD REALLY APPRECIATE GETIING IT BACK IT WAS MY ROOMMATE'S. THANKS FOR YOUR HELP. CALL MIKE AT 2318. 
LOST: A REWARD IS OFFERED TO ANYONE WHO FOUND MY HEWLETI-PACKARD CALCULATOR (MAYBE IN NSH). THIS WAS A GRADUATION PRESENT AND I NEED IT FOR BOTH CLASSES AND SENTIMENTAL REASONS. PLEASE CALL COLLEEN X2634. I CAN IDENTIFY IT. 
MY BROWN LEATHER JACKET AND DUKE SWEATSHIRT WERE TAKEN FROM THE ROCKNE BUILDING ON 10/5 BETWEEN 2 AND 3 O'CLOCK. THEY HAVE MUCH PERSONAL VALUE TO ME-PLEASE RETURN, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. REWARD GIVEN. CINDY. 220 KNOTI, #4928. 
FOUND -3 keys on a wooden ND key chain at party on ND Ave. They are dorm keys. Call 2798 
"Lost": Woman's Corvair Bike .. .White with blue trim. Big Basket. Great sentimental value. Any info call Bridget at 2547. 
Lost TAN, POLO JACKET at the SENIOR CLASS CRUISE on FRIDAY. PLEASE CALL GEORGE at 1694 if you have found the jacket. THANK YOU. 
FOUND: Calculator in 206 Cushing. Call Richard at x3263 and discribe rt. If not, I have a new calculator. 

WANTED 
ATIENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Callt-602­838-8885. Ext R6262 
SPRING BREAK 1990-Individual or student organization needed to promote our Spring Break trips. Earn money, free trips and valuable work experience. APPLY NOW!! Call Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013. 
ATIENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Callt-602­838-8885. Ext R6262 
SPRING BREAK 1990 -Individual or student organization needed to promote our Spring Break trips. Earn money, free trips and valuable work experience. APPLY NOW!! Call Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013. 
SICK OF LIVING ON-CAMPUS?? --WE NEED EACH OTHER-­•• NEED TWO ROOMMATES .. FOR A GREAT HOUSE FOR SPRING SEMESTER 1990. 
GREAT LOCATION ON ANGELA BLVD. 1/4 MILE FROM CAMPUS!! -CHEAP RENT 
FUN ROOMMATES!! CALL KARIN, KELLY, OR JULIE @287-9378 
Need ride from NJ to ND on Oct. 
29. Will share expenses. Jerry 272-7449 
WANTED: Bass player for a classic/alternate rock band. Call John at 4282. 
......NEW AD***** 
I NEED!!!!!! 2USCGA's!l 2 SMU GA's or studs A ride to Pittsburgh after USC 
Call Debbie 1880 or 3735. 
•••• CASH TODAY •••• for USC ,PITI tix stu or ga -Mark 271­5691. 
Need two Navy Ga's together Call Wally at 1388 
WANTED-ride to Ohio on 80-90 E. leaving after USC game, will share expenses please call Kevin x1647 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 
-1 am looking for any USCvs.ND T-shirts. Call Chris at x. 1692. 
NEED RIDE TO PITIS AREA FOR BREAK! WILL HELP WITH EXPENSES. Sheri x3567 
HELP!! I need a ride to Tx. (Dallas area) over Fall Break. Will help with driving & expenses. Diane x5470 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 

FORSALE .J 
COLOR TV RENTALS 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959 
ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1 ­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
TEAC Dolby B&C Tape Deck:$50; JVC Auto Reverse Boom Box:$75; GE 19"ColorTV:$150; Call Mark at 271-0672 
SELLING ST. TKTS. 272-9719 
ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
Dolby B&C Tape Deck:$50; Auto Reverse Boom Box:$75; 19" Color TV:$200; Call Mark at 271-0672 
For Sale: One-way to Tulsa from 
S.B. on 10/21. Price CHEAP! Call Stacy x4914 
NEW YORK NEW YORK-1 WAY TICKET SB TO ALBANY, NY LEAVING THIS SAT. 10/14,9:30 AM FOR SALE ONLY $50. CALL X3442. 
TANDY COMPUTER, COLOR MONITOR, DOT MATRIX PRINTER, DESK/HUTCH & CHAIR $2,000.00 OR BEST OFFER. CALL AFTER 6PM 234-3131. 
Winter is coming. For sale 1 00%, great, cheap leather jackets. Call Pedro xt 002 

TICKETS ] 
Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. 
I'll buy any tickets for any home 
game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks. 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653 
NEED GAS FOR PITI, NAVY & SMU $$$$ CALL TOM & MARTY X3185 
WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PITI OR SMU. 800-323-7687. 
NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 
NEED 2 USC tickets Call 502-354­8826 collect. 
1 or 2ND/USC tickets wanted. Call Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 nights 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PITI 
GAMEl CALL VANESSA AT 
X4933.$$$$ 
NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY 
HOME GAME ---CALL 
PAUL X3406 
I NEED ST 
TICKS FOR PITI -----PAUL X3406----­
NEED 8 USC TIX 
CALL2207 -----------------------------NEED 2 PITIGAs CALL xi662 -----------------------------Need 2 SMU GA's.Call Sue x4702 
Need 4 Miami Ga's, and/or USC stud tix. Mike x2093. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S CALL BETH 
283-2722 
PLEASE!!!!!!! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I WANT TO TRADE A PITI TICKET OR MY ROOMMATE FOR A USC TICKEL ..........CALL ME AT 3385 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NOTRE DAME/USC GAME. PLEASE CALL COLLECT 619/565-8303. ASK FOR LARRY CORRIGAN. 
Looking to trade 2-4 Pitt GA's for 
2-4 Penn St. tix. Please call Bo 
at x2352 if interested. 
HELP!! My Dad, Agamemnon, just hates the Trojans. I need 4GAstoUSC Please call Marty at 277-4392 
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, I NEED 2 
SMU GA's, I'LL EVEN PAY$$ 
x2629 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S 
WILL PAY TOP$ 
PLEASE CALL KEVIN x3170 
PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI 
PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI 
I need 4 GA's and 2 Stud's for the 
PITI game. Call Mike@ x1714. 
PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI 
PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOTH PITI. 
AND NAVY CALL CHERIE 4969 
NEED TIX NEED TIX NEED TIX 4 Navy and 4 SMU, all stud tix. Please help! Jenny/Colleen x1330 
-1 need a USC GA worse than all 
the rest of these lying schmucks!! 
John, 277-7450. PLEASE! 
-HEY YOU! Yeah, you. The one with the USC GA's. Call John at (219)-283-2005 for $$$$ or 2 SMU GA's. 
SORRY Alumni SR. club is going to be closed Sat Oct. 14th due to administrative reasons ... 
Need student tickets for USC. 
Will pay$$$$. Call Bill, 271-8483 
I NEED 1 USC GA 
Please call Tim @ 1772 
FOR SALE:! USC & 1 PITI ST TIK CHRIS X3360 
I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs 
Mike 287-3087 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WANTED: 2 OR 3 PITI GA'S 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!! 
CALL MOLLY AT 4992 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED USC TICKETS 2 G A's , 2 STUD's Call x4266 or 277-2290 
I need 4 SMU GA's KIM 3881 
Need 2 USC GA's or STUD 
and 2 PITI GA's or STUD 
(Parents will pay BIG $$$$) 
Call CHRIS at x3278 
Need two SMU tix please call 284­4930!!!!!!!!1! 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill 
277-3653 
BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS 
I NEED 10. STUDENT or GA 
Call FRANK 287-5320 
NEED GAS FOR PITI, 
NAVY & SMU $$$$ 
CALL TOM & MARTY 
X3185 WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE E;ND ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PITI OR SMU. 800-323-7687. 
NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 
NEED 2 USC tickets Call 502-354­8826 collect. 
1 or 2 ND/USC tickets wanted. Call Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 nights 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PITI GAME! CALL VANESSA AT X4933.$$$$ 
NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME ---CALL 
PAUL X3406 
I NEED ST. TICKS FOR PITI -----PAUL X3406----­
NEED 8 USC TIX CALL2207 
NEED 2 PITI GAs 
CALL x1662 
Need 2 SMU GA's.Call Sue x4702 
Need 4 Miami Ga's, and/or USC 
stud tix. Mike x2093. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S 
CALL BETH 
283-2722 
PLEASE!!!!!!! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I WANT TO TRADE A PITI TICKET OR MY ROOMMATE FOR A USC TICKET .............CALL ME AT 3385 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NOTRE DAME/USC GAME. PLEASE CALL COLLECT 619/565-8303. ASK FOR LARRY CORRIGAN. 
Looking to trade 2-4 Pitt GA's for 
2-4 Penn St. tix. Please call Bo 
at x2352 if interested. 
HELP!! My Dad, Agamemnon, just hates the Trojans. I need 4GAstoUSC Please call Marty at 277-4392 
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, I NEED 2 
SMU GA's, I'LL EVEN PAY$$ 
x2629 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S 
WILL PAY TOP$ 
PLEASE CALL KEVIN x3170 
PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI 
PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI 
I need 4 GA's and 2 Stud's for the 
PITI game. Call Mike@ x1714. 
PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI 
PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOTH PITI. 
AND NAVY CALL CHERIE 4969 
NEED TIX NEED TIX NEED TIX 4 Navy and 4 SMU, all stud tix. Please help! Jenny/Colleen x1330 
I need a USC GA worse than all the rest of these lying schmucks!! John, 277-7450. PLEASE! 
HEY YOU! Yeah, you. The one with the USC GA's. Call John at (219)-283-2005 for$$$$ or 2 SMU GA's. 
SORRY Alumni SR. club is going to be closed Sat Oct. 14th due to administrative reasons ... 
Need student tickets for USC. 
Will pay $$$$. Call Bill, 271-8483 
NEED 2 USC GA'S BADLY! 
CALL MOLLY X3885 
I NEED 1 USC GA 
Please call Tim @ 1772 
FOR SALE:! USC & 1 PITI ST TIK CHRIS X3360 
I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs 
Mike 287-3087 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WANTED: 2 OR 3 PITI GA'S 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!! 
CALL MOLLY AT 4992 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED USC TICKETS 2 G A's , 2 STUD's Call x4266 or 277-2290 
I NEED FOUR USC STUD. TIX 
BIG $$$ CALL PETE 232-4208 
I need 4 SMU GA's KIM 3881 
Need 2 USC GA's or STUD 
and 2 PITI GA's or STUD 
(Parents will pay BIG$$$$) 
Call CHRIS at x3278 
AS WELL AS GA'S CALL LLOYD AT xt684 
FOR SALE: 1 USC & 1 PITI STUD riX · CALL NOW!!!! x255a 
Need two USC and two PITI tix. Call Luke x3113 
TICKETS WANTED FOR PITI-ND GAME. 312-655-4595. 
HAVE: 4 stud Pitt tics NEED TO TRADE FOR: 4 Pitt GA's call Chris @ #1306 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $ LUST, GREED, HATE! $ $ FOR WHATEVER REASON, $ PLEASE SELL PITI GA'S $ CALL MARK--271-8860 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$----­
I NEED USC, PITI AND MIAMI TIX CHUCK X3302 
RICH UNCLE NEEDS 1 USC-GA 
or stud. ticket. call MARK@ 3546 
If you don~ sell me 9 PITI GAs, !will BLOW UP THE STADIUM AND THEN NO ONE CAN WATCH THE GAME!!!! Pete Lx1791 
$$ FRENZIED ALUMS $$ 
Need USC tix! Will pay BIG bucks! 
Call John @2299 
Have 3 PITI STUD 4289 
YO! POTATOHEADS ARE 
COMING ALL THE WAY FROM 
IDAHO TO SEE THE USC GAME. 
SELL ME STUD OR GA'S. CALL 
scon@ 272-2596. 
NEED 1 PITI STUDENT 
2NAVYGA 
MONEY NO PROB. 
PAT 1236 
HAVE USC PITI 
STUDENTS 
BEST OFFER 
MIKE 1380 
I NEED MIAMI +ANY HOME GA'S HELP CALL X3516. 
NEED PITI GAs WILL PAY BIG 
$$$.CALL KEVIN 277-7167 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. BIG$$$$. 
277-9869. 
FOR SALE: 1 USC STUD 
BEST OFFER call joe 2647 
HAVE TWO SMU GAS! I NEED TWO NAVY GAS. LETS SWAP! BOBX3324 
NEED 2 GAs FOR NAVY CALL ANN 284-4223 
SMU GA's I will buy them. x2077 
I NEED USC TIX 
2GA's 
2STUDS 
KRIST! -3778 
LETS MAKE ADEAL My PITI for your USC(stud. only) CaiiX3474 
I need 1 USC Ticket call Dan x1417 
PARENTS' ANNIVERSARY 
NEED 2 USC GA'S BAD 
CALL MIKE #271-8860 
NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND-USC 
PLEASE HELP! CALL COLLECT 
216-247-2828 RODGER 
TRADE 1 PITI GA FOR 1 USC 
GA CALL 1655 OR 4224 
-----------------------------1 
need 3 GAs for the SMU game, in section 1 -5 or 36. Also need one stud tx for the same game. Call Jerry at x4113. 
NEED 2 PITI GAs Tracy-X2985 
NEED 2 USC GA'S. CALL MIKE 
312-871-3270. 
NEED 4 PITI GA'S & 2 USC TIX. 
MONEY NO PROBLEM! MIKE 
X1236. 
TOP$ 
ALL HOME GA'S 
312-920-9350 
-----------------------------1 
NEED USC, MIAMI, & ALL HOME GAME TIX 272-6306 
NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY 
I need 5 G.A.'s 
or anything you have together 
NAME YOUR PRICE!!!! 
Call Kyle-#3775 
see CLASS I page 14 
Friday, October 13, 1989
page 14 The Observer 
fhe Obsen.rr" .1~ ( t~pts classJ!ieds every bu~.111t~~:.._. cldy trL1fll 10 am to 3 30 p rn .11 ttu· Noire Darn•· nil''-" .ll ~ LaFortune and from 12 30 10 3 p 111 ;1! lilH Sa1nl M;ory s off"" Hdgg;;r Coll<>ge C"nter Dt:ddl~rie for next day dossofoeds og 3 p 111 All classlllf"Js rnust tl" 
prep~1d Til!? ch,Jrqt• 1S 2 ce111s ~er character pw cJ.oy . .ncludillg spaces


Classifieds 
HEY ALL YOU REALLY COOL
"'PETITE NATURE ... OFF-CAMPUS SENIORs­
DESPERATELY IN NEED OF 3 I NEED 1 USC STUD. FEZ 
Happy Birthday! Remember you
USC TICKETS OR AS MANY AS MIKE#4057 NEVER ASK OF MONEY SPENT 
CHECK OUT THE BULLETIN
Class 
are only as old as you think you
SOMEONE HAS TO OFFER WHERE THE SPENDER THINKS 
BOARD BETWEEN THE HUDDLE
are. From,
MONEY NO PROBLEM. CALL IF YOU'RE RICH AND YOU LOVE IT WENT.
continued from page 13 AND LAFORTUNE FOR
... PETITE TETE ...
CARl AT 271-5651 THE IRISH CALL 3817 TO SEE NOBODY WAS EVER MEANT 
CURRENT AND UPCOMING
THEM BEAT USC !II TO REMEMBER OR INVENT CLASS EVENTS
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DILLON HALL CORDIALLY 
Help 2 ND GRADS driving from WHAT HE DID WITH EVERYWANTED MIAMI TICKETS INVITES YOU TO SPEND THE
Houston.Need 2 USC tix-GA or CENT. -FROST
CALL MATT AT 1961 WEEKEND WITH
student. Will pay $$$. Call Dena or GET PSYCHED!! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CLINT EASTWOOD
Eric collect (713 )669-8326. SELL US 2 U.S.C. TIX NOW! LUV, A-L FEZZETTES FRIDAY­
FLAVORED POPCORN SALTS $$usc$$ FOR SALE!! CALL JENN TO 
9:00 DIRTY HARRY
NEED NAVY TIX!!! HAVE SMU call J. orT.@ 1870.
I NEED YOU, YOU NEED ME !! PURCHASE-X4885
11:30 HEARTBREAK RIDGE I've PITT Tix, You've 3 USC GA's -SATURDAY------------------------------1
FOR SALE !I! X2880 NEED 2 USC TIX. MAURA
Let's DEAL some$$$ Flow !I! Call 9:00 EVERY WHICH WAY BUT RISH MUSIC: THE WORD TOUR 
288-0885.
Matt x1304 !!!VICTORY SALE!!! JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS
LOOSE 
10% off your purchases Saturday SATURDAY AT CLUB 2311 :30 OUTLAW JOSEY WAles PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT 
11-2
I need 3 tickets FREE--IN THE DILLON PARTY
NEED 4 GA'S CALL TIM #1699
UNDvs PITT NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
I WANT YOU TO MAKE MY DAY!
Reasonable $$ I need 4 GA's and 2 Stud tickets ROOM BASEMENT LAFORTUNE Vivacious blonde chic needs ride Call K. Sherry 232-2051 for NAVYI! Call Steve@ x1661! to Western PA eve. 10/19 or morn NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY """Make A Difference!"'"" CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable 10/20. Share driving and$. Call NEED 6 SMU GA'S TAKE THE PLUNGE atmosphere, daily & weekly 
x2627. TIM 271-8795 USC TKTS FOR SALE. MAKE US Urban Plunge Applications due this specials, pool table, English darts, AN OFFER!277-6896 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13TH and great company. 234-3541 
"SELLING PITT STUD TIX" I NEED 1 USC AND 1 PITT CALL CARMINA #2890 
at esc---meet the challenge! HELP! MOM AND DAD WILL KILL TICKET. GA'S OR STUD. 
#######Urban Plunge######## USC Tickets Needed 
ME IF I DON'T GET 2 GA'S FOR CALL MIKE AT X. 1751 ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
3 GA's Will pay $$$$ 
PITT! YOU HAVE TICKETS, I Macintosh extravaganza is
Call John at 283-2005. WHY DO STARS
HAVE$$$. PLEASE CALL X3832. NEED MANY USC GA'S OR STUD. coming! November 15. Be on the TIX X232-9857 
SUDDENLY APPEAR... 
watch!
1need two student lockets to the WHEN 'YOU' ARE ADOPTION: Loving, professional 
-----------------------------1 
USC game. Call Martha at x1331 · NEAR? couple in Midwest wishes to adopt
NEED USC, AND NAVY GA'S FOR MAC IS WHAT YOU MAKE IL
-----------------------------1 MY PARENTS COMING IN FOR newborn. We offer stable and Think about it. .
need GA tixs for all home games happy home, financial security,
THEIR FIRST FOOTBALL Esp. for USC $$ 284-5227 Patty NEED 4 NAVY GA's welcoming extended family. 
GAMES. I ALSO NEED TWO PITT ANYONE INTERESTED INPLEASE CALL KARIN PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 STUDENT TICKETS. PLEASE HELPING OUT WITH PAPERADOPTION: Loving couple Can 1 please have 2 GA's and 1 x1321 after 6:30 pm weekdays, anytime CALL JOHN AT 3586. 
RECYCLING, PLEASE CALLstudent ticket for the USC football weekends.Attorney involved.
dreaming of adopting white infant. 
LAURA MANZI AT X3484. 
game and 4 student tickets for the NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S 
LET'S HELP EACH OTHER! Pittsburgh one? I'm Tom and my 1 PITTSTUD 
Legal/confidential. Expenses paid. 
SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! 
phone number is 1128. Thank you. $$$$ TRACY X2613 Call Lillian and Ed collect, join friends at Sr. Bar for aNEED GA AND STU TIX FOR USC ANYTIME (212) 645-4344 FRIDAY THE THIRSTEENTH
NEED 4USC AND PITT. CALL CHRIS 
bash!
2NAVY AT x1067 SENIORS' SENIORS! SENIORS! 
2 SMU TIX NOW !$!$!$ -----------------------------1 CALL STEVE #1650 have USC & Pitt studs. Best offer. BELL YGRAMS, BALLOONS, Mom and Dad are kind of weird. Call Chris@ x2727. SINGING TELEGRAMS, 255-3355 Even after seeing the bonng 
We need USC student tickets and Nl SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS' Students: Check out the MacintoshPurdue game, they rarin' to see 2 Navy GA's. Please call Brian or Have USC & Pitt St. tickets watch the ND/AIR FORCE gameLoan-to-Own program for smart &more ND football. Help them out. 
Matt at x.1695. Ca11Tom4180 at Gippers ,U.S. 31 NorthI
inexpensive financing. 5 cent HOT DOGS and ...home game. I NEED ... 4 MIAMI ga's I need USC tix 
They'll buy any two G.A.s for any FROSTY MUGS'need ride from StL to ND on 10/26
Call #3714 and leave a message. Call Matt
... 2 PITT ga's .. 1 USC stud SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! 
#1701 will pay $/drive. Dave X1808 
I HAVE $$$$ Call Jeff at 3555 October Break Ride needed to Detroit Area for 
········································ 
TO THE GUYS IN FLANNER 624 
October Break. Will share gas. 
(ESP. SPARKEY, PAT. AND 
Want to leave after USC game and
HAPPY 21st B-DAY, TINA!!! OUR SKIING STAR)· THANKS 
NEED 2 or 4 Pitt GA's return anytime after Thursday. 
USC GRAD WANTS TO SEE HIS -----------------------------1 Sorry I'm missing it, but Gretch & I FOR KNOWING THE TRUE 
Call Eric x1 008 Please call
TEAM GET STOMPED. Wants to have 1 PITT STUD. ticket. will be celebrating with you in MEANING OF "FRIEND". 
Matt @x1650
pay for the pleasure. Call X4897 . Best offer by 10/16. spirit!! Have a GREAT day!! WE LOVE YOU I NEED 1 USC & 1 PITT GA CALL 2 GAs needed ... 233 6298 Leave message. Love, THE FARLEY GIRLS 1655 OR 4224 
Steph I need GA's and STUD TIX for Top ten quotes from the twelve's 
HELPI BROS COMING FROM USC and PITT will pay$$$ TEXAS,NEED 2 USC GA'S X2481 trip to Pat's Pub Call Tim 1478 10. Truck mode! 
HiAg! 
9. Hey, you know wind goes nght Want USC stud. tix. Will trade SMU through rayon 
Your NAVY GAs. give them to me! NEED USC -Have PITT HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY, 
Or, at least sell them. I'll pay BIG Will trade or pay$$!! AMY BACH.!! 
THE GANGSTER OF LOVE:or$$$ X4708
BUCKS to get as many of them as 1333 Kay. Hope it's a good one. Don't eat LOOKING FOR A PARTNER IN 
8. Anyone that can move their
possible. Call1527 ASAP. too many "scoops" of ice cream "CRIME." CALL X4783. ASK FOR hand, flip them off
with your cake! 
THE GANGSTER. 
7. I was just propositioned by the
I NEED PITT, SMU GA'S Love, Tina, Scarlett, and Annie entire night shift of McDonald's
PLEASEII #2819 
PERSONALS
Win a trip for two to 
NEED 1 or 3 USC GA's. 
6 .... for better hallway vision HAVE 2 PITT and 1 SMU 
5. Does she know I have a steady STUD. For SALE
the Miami game 
girlfriend back home?
$1 for 1 chance 
OH, AND NANG, Call WENDY at 2798
NEED RIDE to Miami for 4. Well we did it more than once I LOVE YOU! 
Thanksgiving break/game -will 3. Equals, equals, equals ..
$3 for 5 chances
NEED PITT GA'S 
share driving and$ Jim X1748 2. Thanks a lot-I'll save them aBETH 3706 Going to MIAMI of OHIO?
$5 for 1 0 chances 
walk 
I need a ride there the wknd. of 
THANKS ST. JUDE FOR FAVOR'S 1. Gee, I'm glad I'm not Chris' date 
Contact Sophomore 
have 2 USC GA's; will trade for 2 Oct. 14. Will help wrth $. Call 
GRANTED. DE & CE
Pitt GA's; call Mark x3331 or x3332 
Sarah at #3484. NEEDED: RIDE FOR 2 TO
Class Office 
BEST OF LUCK TO LONDON-----------------------------Will trade 2 BUFFALO AREA AFTER USC PROGRAM ALUMS:
239-5525
SMU GA's for Pitt or 
Greed is good but money is better. GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL KEITH MATTHEW GRAYSONUSC GA's; call Mark x3331 or 
M-F 3-~ 
Help celebrate AT X1045. 
DAVID KINKOPFx3332 ''The year of Money'' REGIS, REGIS, REGIS, REGIS, 
NICHOLAS ROSSIMIAMI FLIGHTS' MIAMI FLIGHTS
REGIS, REGIS, REGIS. HEY, MATTHEW SLAUGHTERRound-trip airfares to Miami or
HAVE A GROOVY WEEKEND. IN THE NEXT STAGE OF THE V&E. 
Fort Lauderdale. Depart 
RHODES/MARSHALL
November 23 from Midway
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ COMPETITIONS. FROM THE
(Chicago ); return November 27 to
Need Pitt GAs and Studs LONDON PROGRAM.
NEED A RIDE TO MPLS/ST. PAUL Midway (Chi.). $239 for students, call Jeff or Marty 277-1180 
I need 1 USC stud tix; call Bill FOR OCT. BREAK! WILL HELP 
$265 for others. Tix sold on first ­x3363 WITH GAS $$ CALL LARA 
come, first-serve basis, and are
NEED: many USC student tickets, PEGGY DONNELLY
X4526 OR MICHELLE X2696 non-refundable. Anthony Travel 
call Megan 2518 Coming back after break from New
Need 1 USC ticket-stud. or GA Welcome back to the Bend!!!!!! 
1-800-7DOMERS Jersey??Need a ride on Sunday.
Call Wendy x4036 Elizabeth-Anne Crisp, We missed you ... 
Call Eric 1628 to share expenses. 
Chris&Max Need SMU Ga's happiest days of our lives, October 15, 1968 was one of the 
$50 $50 $50 $50 WANNA FLY
Call Mark 1890 We are very proud of you and we TO NEW YORK THIS WEEKEND
Rich Alumni Father love you very much. ADOPTION is a beautiful 
FOR $50? I'M SELLING A 1 WAY
2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale Needs USC GAs Have a terrific time on your 21st beginning. Your baby will thrive as
'""ERIC FRANCIS'"" 
TICKET TO ALBANY LEAVING 
272-5092 $$$ reward for your help! Birthday! a loved member of our happy
Your b-day is soon, during break SAT. 10/14, 9:30AM FROM S.
Call Tim X2037 Mom and Dad family. Our family can't grow any 
Alas, no friends to eat your cake 
BEND. CALL X3442. Fortunately you have me, Mel 
other way. Medical/counseling Need Navy GAs. Call John Welle. OH, AND NANG, expenses paid. Call collect anytime 
Without whom life would be hell # 7204 am. #6885 1-5 pm. 233-ILOVEYOUI 0-317-497-9939.
What am I saying, what is my tale? 3412evenings. 
Be free on sat. at 5 for more mail ATTENTION II HAVE SMC -ND STUDENTS SUMMER To my favorite roomate (this year); RESERVATIONS FOR STEVE
PROGRAMS -LONDON (MAY 23­GRADUATION 1990 WILL "DEAL" Have a Happy 21st Birthday!!! 
RUSSMAXA G.A.'S FOR ANY '89 HOME GAME happy21st birthday tonight May you always grow older, but NEED smu ga's 277-5934 Take off to CHICAGO for a
CALL DEBBIE AT 284-5202 -I'll send you're cake to the 1/bmry.­never mature I Have a great one. 
Saturday! Take the 
Your roomie.
thrt JUNE 22) ROME (JUNE 17-JULY
I NEED 2, 4, or 6 GA's for USC WINDY CITY SHUTTLE-$10
I NEED A NAVY GA FOR MOM 16) TRAVEL IN IRE., SCOT,
Call "the Scooter" or Jim at Tickets available at Information
MONEY NO PROBLEM FRANCE, GER , & SWITZ. JACK-
the Moneystore #4274 Desk, Lafortune.
call Scott x1635 after 8:30pm CLASSES IN BIO., BUEC, HIST., WHY ARE YOU SO EVIL??? SOC., & ITALIAN. MEETING MON. 
-THE HUDDLE CREW
NEED G.A.'S AND STUDENT TIX 
OCT.16AT7:00 P.M. INFOR USC!I WILL PAY$$$! CALL 
NEED A RIDE TO MPLS/ST. PAUL CARROLL HALL (SMC), PIZZA,MIKE AT 277-9187. 
FOR OCT. BREAK! WILL HELP DEE SNYDER LIVES!!!!!!! SLIDES, FORMER ALLO, FOCME!
WITH GAS $$ CALL LARA PARTICIPANTS, FACULTY, & IF YOU HAVE A USC STUDENT X4526 OR MICHELLE X2696 FEZ AHHHSOOOOO!I!!!!!!!t
PASSPORT PHOTOS. FOR TICKET TO SELL PLEASE CALL NEVER ASK OF MONEY SPENT -PSYCHO....
MORE INFO. CALL DR. BLACK LISA 4937 NEED LOTS OF NAVY TIX-GA'S Elizabeth-Anne Crisp, WHERE THE SPENDER THINKS 284-4460 OR 272-3762 or STUD. CALL TOM-1694. October 15, 1968 was one of the IT WENT. A.EW-K-MART SUCKS!!-M.B. USC and NAVY happiest days of our lives, NOBODY WAS EVER MEANT G.A.'s and Student needed I NEED USC TICKETS We are very proud of you and we TO REMEMBER OR INVENT IVE GOT THE MONEY IF YOU'VE x1927 GA'S OR STUDENT love you very much. WHAT HE DID WITH EVERY GOT 2-3 USC GA OR STU TIX
NEEDED: RIDE TO NEW LOTS OF CASH TO BURN CENT -FROST ORLEANS AREA FOR OCTOBER JODI X4090
Have a terrific time on your 21st I have 2 GA's for both Pitt and EARN SOME DOUGH Birthday! GET PSYCHED!!!!!!!!!!! BREAK. WILL HELP WITH $ USC Best Offer 703-528-4367 CALL DAN, 239-5472 Mom and Dad LUV, A-L FEZZETTE 
CALL MATT@ X3106 

Friday, October 13, 1989 Th& Observer page 15 
HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY DOGGIE!!!! **************** LOVE, DONNA  
SUSAN "you're my friend" MORIARITY Love, The Oliver North Fan Club "Bye, Bye"  

By DAVID DIETEMAN Sports Writer · 
After rattling off a record streak of seven consecutive vic­tories, the Notre Dame women's soccer team looks to continue its winning ways when it takes on Alma College at 5 
p.m. Friday at Moose Krause Stadium. 
!laving just defeated Tri­State and Indiana University at South Bend. the Irish, 9-6, plan to "keep up th!) winning streak and the hard work," said senior co-captain Joy Sisolak. "We've b1wn working well together, and we've noticed more skills on our team. which gives us a lot more to work with." 
!lead coach Dennis Grace has 



Irish look to extend 7-game streak 
.---COMPACT DISC-COMPACT DISC-COMPACT DISC---. 
0 
(f) 
0 
1­0 
<( 0.... 
~ 
0 
0 
I 
0 
(f) 
0 
1­0 
<( 0.... 
~ 
0 
0 
I 
0 
(f) 
0 1­0 
<( 
a_ 
~ 
0 
0 
J
(f) 
0 
1­0 
<( 0.... 
~ 
0 
0 
I 
1631 E. Edison St. 

Hours 
At the corner of 
10 to 9 daily 
Edison & St. Rd. 23 
11 to 7 Sunday 
Just off N.D. campus 
Ph. 277-8338 
STOREWIDE CD SALE 
ALL CDS $13.99 $15.99 ON SALE $11.99 PLUS $2.00 OFF ALL THE REST 


NEW RELEASES 
BY 

Tracy Chapman Cure Aerosmith Linda Ronstadt Motley Crue Tina Turner 
attributed the team's recent successful play to their unwill­ingness to give up after the season started disappointingly. 
"We need to keep our positive mental attitude, and things will fall into place," said Grace. "Our schedule was tough early in the season, but we showed poise and kept our heads to­gether. Many teams that started the season by going 2-6 would have quit, but these girls never gave up. Things look pretty good right now." 
That they do. After breaking seven records and tying three others in a 17-0 rout of the Tri­State Women of Troy, on Tuesday, the Notre Dame women broke yet another record on Thursday night, 
beating !USB 5-0 for their sev­ 
enth consecutive win.  
The  Irish  can  boast  of  a  
mighty offense, bolstered by a  
dominating midfield that has a  
penchant for controlling play.  
Senior  co-captains  K.T.  
Sullivan and Joy Sisolak, along  
with juniors Bernie Holland and  
Mimi  Suba  and  sophomore  
Susie Zilvitis pose  a  constant  
scoring threat.  
Meanwhile. the st.inl!v defen­ 
sive  corps  of Marta Roemer,  
Molly  Lennon  and  Kelly  
Hanratty  will  do  its  part  to  
keep opposing players far away  
from  goalkeepers  Michelle  
Lodyga and Cara Lewis.  
"A big key for us is our tough work ethic," said Grace.  

The OJserverI Tami Lowery 
The Saint Mary's soccer team fell to Sienna Heights 2-1 in overtime Thursday afternoon. 

By MIKE KAMRADT Sports Writer 
Fresh off its second consecu­
tive Midwestern Collegiate () Conference championship, the 0 Notre Dame golf team will ~ travel to Ohio State this week­-o end for the Buckeye )> Invitational. ~ The competition at the 
Scarlet Course will likely include 
0 
teams from Army and 
(f) Mississippi, as well as most of () the Big Ten and the Mid-
America Conference. "This is as tough as we face,"
I 
() said fifth-year senior Pat 0 Mohan, referring to the level of ~ competition. -u Notre Dame last competed at )> the Scarlet Course was last () spring in the Kepler -I lntercollegiates. In that tour­0 nament, the Irish were surpris­
(J) ingly as high as third place () after the first two rounds. 
The Irish did not have a goodI third round and finished sev­() enth in the Kepler tournament. The Scarlet Course itself@probably had something to do -u with Notre Dame's tough third )> round. The course plays about () -I 0 (f) () 
() 
0 
~ 
-u 
)> 
() 
-I 
0 
(f) 
() 
I 
7,000 yards and is tight in the fairways with a lot of woods. Mix in a few water holes, and it could make for a rough round if a golfer is not on top of his game. 
"This is one of the toughest courses we play," said Mohan. 
The Irish will use the same five golfers this weekend that they used in the MCC champi­onship. Mohan leads the group that also includes freshmen Joe Dennen and Dave Rignier, ju­nior Paul Nolta and sophomore Mike O'Connell. 
The Irish played consistent golf last Monday and Tuesday at the MCC championships, with the five golfers finishing only six strokes apart for the tour­nament. 
Notre Dame's success this 
weekend hinges on the fact that 
all the golfers keep up that 
same consistent play. 
"Our fourth and fifth men have been playing well," said Mohan. "That's important be­cause then we don't have to rely on real low scores from the top guys." 

--~-~--------------~----------~---------------­
The Observer Friday, October 13, 1989 

N~ tennis going against the best 
Bayliss sends 4 frosh, 2 veterans to prestigious Volvos 


a PROCTER & GAMBLE

~~~~~;.==;;;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
If you want to be the best, you have to play the best. 
This motto has been the philosophy of Notre Dame men's tennis coach Bob Bayliss since he took over the controls of this aspiring program in the summer of 1987. Bayliss has scheduled his teams against the top collegiate powers in the country for two years, and this weekend will be no exception. 
Bayliss is sending six of his players to the most prestigious fall event in collegiate tennis ­the Volvo Tennis/Collegiate Championships in Athens, Ga. 
The Irish players traveling include four freshmen, along with the team's top-seeded singles player Dave DiLueia and second-seeded Walter Dolhare. 
Dolhare and the four fresh­men -Chuck Coleman, Mark 
Schmidt, Ronnie Rossass and 
Andy Zurker -will take off for 
Georgia on Friday in order to 
participate in the Pre-Qualifier 
and Qualifier events . 
They will compete with 126 of the best collegiate players for four open berths to participate in the main draw, scheduled for Oct. 19-22 at the University of Georgia's famed Henry Field Stadium. 
"The idea is to expose them to the highest level of competi­tion possible," said Bayliss. "We will do well with them in the next four years and I hope that by surrounding them with the best players in collegiate tennis, playing USC will be big no deal. I am telling them to just keep it basic and execute the things in practice.'' 
Notre Dame will face USC in an exhibition match Oct. 20 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Notre Dame's 1989 recruiting class is by far the best in school history and is one of the top three in all of collegiate tennis, with only Duke and Stanford boasting better classes. The Irish freshman class consists of seven nationally-ranked players from the 18-and-under age cat­egory. 
"I don't know anyone that had a better class," said Bayliss. "Depth-wise, I think our class was the best. They are high-level national players. I am pretty excited about them." 
DiLucia, who is ranked No. 26 in the preseason Volvo Tennis/Collegiate Rankings, has been selected by the Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches Association to play in the event as an at-large entry. DiLucia was one of 27 players who were awarded this type of bid. 
Green 
continued from page 20 
this weekend. 
Despite the Bears' disheart­ening 42-35 loss to Tampa Bay last Sunday, Green remains optimistic about his team's chances, citing another impor­tant difference between college and the National Football League. 
"The games here are a lot more pressure-filled," Green says. "But it's a different feel­ing. In college ball, if you lose a game-that's it. You're done. You're playing for a bowl game. It's a dream down the 
IHIceficdlft lliiJr®.§ltiiDJlJk 
fi§ ~112 

Congratulations, you finally look like youriD! 
Love, Annette. Meg, Julie. 
Lisa and Mary 
.. :FINANCE
-
= 

PEOPLE :~~e~;~/~~~:toAttend ~t:;,~:: ~~;~'Z' October 16, 1989 
OUR PRIMARY INVESTMENT We encourage casual dress-Place: University Club, upper lounge =-_"""" please come as you are Key Speaker.· C."'. Clarl< 
tubes in today's college game. 
"We lost last weekend, but that's just a loss. We're still going to win the Super Bowl. You get every opportunity to win, even after you've lost. 
"The team looks real good," Green continues. "I feel very lucky to have been chosen by the Bears. The sky is the limit for this team." 
The Bears were under fire right from the start, playing the best teams in the preseason in the first few weeks. 
"Seeing the caliber of teams we've played-Philadelphia, Minnesota, Cincinnati-They're supposed to be the best in the league," Green says. "We han­died them very well. You can see it.. .I think we can beat any team in the league. 
"But you could see last week that on any given day any team can beat another. The talent is good on every team. It's very competitive." 
Green, as you can tell, is an upbeat man, and his optimism extends to Notre Dame foot­ball, as well. 
"I think they look great," he says. "No one can beat them. They always find a way to win, be it special teams or defense or a big play on offense. No one on their schedule can beat them. They are a great team.'' 








PLOtiGE 
Registration ends Oct. 13 
Texas 
continued from page 20 The Lady Longhorns arrive with a very balanced attack. Errica Hibben is leading the team with 186 kills; Dagmara Szyszczak and Nikki Busch both have 170 kills. Although Texas lost three key players in-eluding their setter from last year's championship team, the team is still as strong as ever. This was considered to be a 

-1::131\ 3Hl .lSVOAG08 'lS'vOA008 '·· -...... If:/~: 0 N 
··~u~·~~~ ..~~ .. ~"u" n:... ··.......f4N,:,_ ID 'r'ouD.f(ll(r:: 
~o\..~:;,~~ <}:BUY CLASS I FlEDS:.c:!..~.~.:~:.,.~~ 
_ IC/ uar1 If:![
~~..,<-..-.~.~·.a'~ a.nt~ov•••ov••• lfS "-~V .,..,Vb. -forv· IN q, "'J-.·..s: ~ at Campus View? PreQ-Ire IV1:t1r Puo<uer0 SJe~o,1 8.} 
The people of Procter & Gamble present an overview of our Finance organization and employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to learn more about us so we can learn more about you. 
rebuilding year for the Longhorns, but their perfor­mance thus far have proved the experts wrong. 
Notre Dame is riding a two-match winning streak with four wins in its past six matches. The Irish also are gaining nec­essary experience to challenge the teams on their very difficult schedule. 
"We are improving everyday in practice," stated Lambert. "The Eastern Michigan match may be a turning point for us." 


T1ckets ava,table at the door or 1n advance at Lalortune iiiiili ,--, 
S:uoenl Comer Box OM~• Ma"erCard and v.sa Orders 239-7442 Refreshments and food to follow Comptroller
_..__._.._-================•~= ..........~~...............................................................~.ooa..~.nn~·re~&~L~od;g~m;g~P~ro~d~u~ct~s..~~~ 
Friday, October 13, 1989 The Observer page 17 
Giants, A's make final preparations for Series 
Mitchell back after missing one practice 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Kevin Mitchell showed up at the Giants' workout Thursday, admitting he deserved a fine for missing Wednesday's practice but saying the matter was overblown. 
Mitchell said he planned to apologize to his teammates for the "misunderstanding," which attracted considerable atten­tion as San Francisco prepares for its first World Series since 1962. 
"I was wrong -I missed practice," Mitchell said. "It's no big deal. "I've got to pay a fine, and the case is closed." 
The Giants' left fielder, who led the major leagues with 47 home runs, was disconcerted by the heavy publicity his absence created. 
"It's too big of a deal -this, all this," he said, gesturing to the crowd of about 100 re­porters and photographers surrounding him at a press conference inside Candlestick Park. 
"I tell you, I can't even walk around without something wrong," he said. "I've been to the World Series before, but I've never seen this." 
For the second day in a row, Mitchell was the big news at the Giants' workout. But there was more: Manager Roger Craig named Candy Maldonado his starting right fielder for Game 1 Saturday night in Oakland. 
Maldonado, who hit only .217 with nine homers this season, drew a key walk in the game­winning rally in Game 5 against the Chicago Cubs on Monday. 
"lie had a hell of an at-bat 
the other day to help us win a 
ballgame," Craig said. "He's 
had a rough year, but I'm play­
ing a hunch." 
Mitchell was assessed what 
Craig described as a stiff fine for missing the first World Rosen and Craig met with or any other Oakland pitcher Series workout. He offered no Mitchell Wednesday morning to frisked by the umpires unless excuse for his absence except inform him of the fine. he sees evidence of cheating. to say that he didn't find out But when asked if he thinks anv about it until 1:45 p.m. "He's like a little kid who got A's pitcher is a cheater, he Wednesday at home in San caught in a cookie jar," said coyly declined to answer. Diego, 15 minutes before the Craig, who was visibly angry The issue arose when workout started. about the incident a day earlier. Toronto manager Cito Gaston 


"He's being punished, and it's had Eckersley checked for a 
That conflicted with what hit­over with. foreign substance during the ting coach Dusty Baker had ninth inning of Game 5 of the told reporters Wednesday. "The first thing I said when AL playoffs on Sunday. Baker said he told Mitchell he walked in was 'How's my fa­about the workout Tuesday vorite son?' He shook my hand. "Hopefully nobody's going to night. He was hurt. He felt bad about be cheating," he said. "But if 
But the Giants' management it." somebody cheats, I'm going to said the issue was settled satis­Also Wednesday, Craig said catch you -I promise youfactorily. General Manager AI he won't have Dennis Eckersley that." 
Canseco not taking things too seriously 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Whether the Oakland Athletics win or lose the World Series, Jose Canseco isn't going to let what others say get to him. 
Last season, the A's won the West division by 13 games and then swept the Boston Red Sox for the American League pen­nant. 
Canseco led the way, becom­ing the first major leaguer ever to hit 40 homers and steal 40 bases in one season. Both Canseco and the A's seemed in­vincible. 
In Game 1 of the World Series against Los Angeles, Canseco hit a grand slam in the second inning at Dodger Stadium to give the A's a 4-2 lead. Oakland went on to lose the game and the Series in five games. 
After his slam, Canseco went 
0-for-19. 
"Anybody who says I lost that World Series doesn't know what they're talking about," Canseco said. 
Canseco was voted unani­
mously the AL's Most Valuable 
Player, but the postseason fail­
ure followed him all winter. 
On March 7 in spring train­
ing, he broke a bone in his left 
hand and reinjured the hand on 
March 22. 
Canseco missed 88 games, 
but that wasn't his biggest 
problem. 
There were brushes with the 
law over speeding, improper 
vehicle papers and gun posses­
sion violations. 
"People would stop me and ask what happened in the World Series," Canseco said. "What could I say? This year could have broke me, but it taught me a lot. Everything in my life has happened for a rea­son." 
Ladies of ND, Be Sure to wish VIC DeFRANCIS (Little Man On Campus) a 
Happy 20th Birthday Today! 
*Vic -Paybacks are hell ­negatives exist. 
Have a great one ­Your Roomies 
• 


--~----------------, 
Friday, October 13, 1989
The Observer
page 18 
-
NO swim teams set to tackle tougher, longer schedule 
By MARY GARINO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's swimming teams are looking to make a splash Saturday as they open their season with a Midwestern Collegiate Conference meet at the Holfs Aquatic Center. 
The MCC Dual Meet this weekend. a new competition that Welsh is hoping will be­come an annual event, is the first step on a long road for both Irish squads. The season continues until March, and in­cludes races against strong teams like Bowling Green and Northwestern. 
Duke and North Carolina State have also been added to the schedule, in addition to the traditional Irish opponents. 
"The good news for us is that we think the team is strong enough to handle the challenges of the schedule," said Welsh, who took over as Irish coach four years ago. "We think that we have a stronger and faster team than last year." 
The men's team will be trying to improve on last season's 8-3 record, while the women hope to better their 6-6 mark. Despite the quality of the grad­uated seniors, Welsh thinks that both teams can rise to the occasion and produce winning seasons. · "We have some very solid re­turning people," the coach noted. 
On the men's side, Welsh pointed to the junior trio of Jim Byrne, Paul Godfrey and Brian Rini as the core of the team. Between them, they hold six school records in individual events. Captains Tom Penn and Mark Lowery also are expected to contribute. 
The strength of the women's team also lies in the junior class. University record holders Christy Moston and Becky Wood will be hoping to repeat 

Tim Welsh 
their performances of last year, 
while  Amy  Tri  and  Tracie  
O'Connell also should  add  to  
the Irish effort.  

Mary Acampora and Erin Tierney, the captains for the Irish, will add leadership to the squad. 
"We have some good leader­ship on the team," Welsh said·.. "The combination of the junior and senior classes is a strong, dependable group." 
It's official...Walker dealt to Vikes 
Cowboys get five players, seven draft picks in wild trade 
Associated Press 
EDEN PHAIRIE, Minn. Herschel Walker shed his Dallas blues Thursday, moving to Minnesota in a blockbuster deal that gave the Cowboys five players and seven draft choices and may have given the Vikings a chance at returning to the Super Bowl in the near future. 
"Depending on how things work out over the next three years, yes, we could have mort­gaged our future for the good of the 1989 and 1990 teams," Vikings general manager Mike Lynn said after completing the trade which was speculated about this week. 
The deal for the All-Pro run­ning back is one of the biggest trades in NFL history. 
Going to the Cowboys were four Viking regulars, if not al­ways starters: linebackers Jesse Solomon and David Howard, cornerback Ike Holt and running back Darrin Nelson. Rookie defensive end Alex Stewart, who has spent the entire year on the disabled list, was included in the deal. 
In addition, the Vikings gave up their first-round draft choice in 1992. 
The Cowboys also got six "conditional" draft choices over the next three years -two first-round picks, three second­round choices and one third­round pick. 
"We have the right to decide at any time what those condi­tions are," Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said. "Everything must be settled over the next three years. It's our call. This is a draft-oriented trade.~. 
Said Lynn: "We're ,not going 
to give a detailed br~· kdown of the conditions. It'll t e you un­til 1993 to figure it ut." 
Nelson at first saJd he might not report to Dallas. But after talking to Nelson, Cowboys coach Jimmy Johnson said: "Darrin was upset, but he's going to be here." 
Nelson said the Cowboys got the best of the deal: "We gave up too much. We gave up an awful lot on defense." 
Counting the draft choices as players, the Vikings, in effect, gave up 12 plavers for one. 
Tennessee's top runner is kicked off team 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Reggie Cobb, the top rusher for sixth­ranked Tennessee, was kicked off the team Thursday by coach .Johnny Majors for an unspeci­fied violation of team rules. 
Majors did not say what the violation was, but that the dismissal is permanent. 
"I regret that action is neces­sary," Majors said. "But our rules are for the welfare of the 
• 
team and the total university. They must be obeyed." 
Cobb, a junior from Knoxville, was suspended by Majors in February for an un­specified violation of team rules. Newspaper accounts said the violation involved testing positive for illegal drugs. 
There were several reports that Thursday's dismissal was for a drug-related violation, but the athletics department would not confirm that. 
Cobb was reinstated to the team before fall practice started. Majors said at the time Cobb had "done all he was re­quired to do" and was rein­stated in good standing. 
Cobb has been the main of­fensive threat in the undefeated Vols' five victories. He rushed for 616 yards and six touch­downs this season, including a career-best 225 yards two weeks ago against Auburn. 

Friday 9-2 
~~~ ~~~~N~ ;~~:::;:;;;,~:;,~:;:;;.;:;:;::; 




~!:CLUB 
Thirsty 13th 
Live... 
©®~©Mttit® lR1®0[fi) 
Don't forget Lunch Noon-2 (NOW) Closed Saturday 14th ...Sorry 
Ed Veome and Kay Richter return to give experience to the Irish diving corps, which will be guided by a new face this year as Tracy Brennan takes over as diving coach. 
As much as Welsh looks to­ward the upperclassmen for strong performances in the new season, the sophomores and the incoming freshmen might have an impact very soon as well. 
"Several freshmen entered Notre Dame with times faster than our own University records," Welsh noted. ''I'm confident that we will break a lot of records this year. It's even possible that we might see some new University records this weekend." 
The Irish, the defending MCC Champions for both men and women, will have to turn in good performances tomorrow to fight off an upstart Evansville team. Evansville was the runner-up in the conference last year, and will be looking for a bit of revenge against the Irish. 
The men will also face four other teams, while the women will be racing in a field of five teams. 
"Early-season meets are al­ways interesting," Welsh stated. "No one is settled in yet, but both in size and depth you would have to favor Notre Dame. 
"One objective of the Meet is to help unify the Conference," Welsh continued. "It will be the formal beginning of the MCC year." 
This weekend's meet will be an preview of the MCC Championship meet, which will be held at Notre Dame for the first time since the Irish joined the conference. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
SMC varsity basketball will begin from 6 to 8 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 15, in Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone interested may attend. 
ND women's basketball will begin tryouts at 6 a.m. Monday, Oct. 16, in the Joyce ACC main arena. 
Bengal Bouts novice tournament will be 4:30p.m. Friday, Oct. 13. There will be 15 bouts. 
ND basketball ticket sales begin Monday. Oct. 30. Prices are $55 for arena seats for 11 home games and $44 for bleacher seats. The schedule: Seniors on Monday, Oct. 30; Juniors on Tuesday, Oct. 31; Sophomores, grad and law students on Wednesday, Nov. 1; and Freshmen on Thursday, Nov. 2. Applications will be sent ot all students. 
Ski Club will meet at 8 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 17, in Room 118 of Nieuwland. Signups and deposits will be collected for the Christmas trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Call x3662 or x2962 for more information. 
In NHL action Thursday, the Philadelphia Flyers beat the Quebec Nordiques 4-2, the Detroit Red Wings edged the Winnipeg Jets 5-4, the Minnesota North Stars blanked the St. Louis Blues 3-0 and the Chicago Blackhawks outscored the Toronto Maple Leafs 9-6. 

Friday, October 13, 1989 The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Sunday 
2 p.m. Nathaniel Angel will speak on "Racism in Corpo­rate America" in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. Sponsored by the League of Black Business Students. 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
Friday 
5 p.m. Women's soccer vs. Alma. 
6:30 p.m. "Reflections on China" dinner with Father 
Theodore Hesburgh, North Dining Hall, Blue Room. 7:30p.m. Volleyball vs. Illinois State. 
7:30 &9:30p.m. Film, "New York Stories," Annenberg. 
8:10 p.m. "Tartuffe," Washington Hall. 
Saturday 
Noon Swim meet, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 1 p.m. SMC Soccer vs. Calvin College. 
7:30 p.m. Volleyball vs. University of Texas. 8:10p.m. "Tartuffe," Washington Hall. 
Sunday 
2 p.m. Piano Recital by David Burge, Annenberg. 3:10p.m. "Tartuffe," Washington Hall. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Top Round of Beef Baked Haddock Baked Sole Chicken Enchiladas Cheese Enchiladas Chili Nachos Tuna Muffins Deli Bar 
49 Liz's "--All the Time" 56 Traditional knowledge 57 Sacco and Vanzetti 59 Breakfast cereal 
so Typesetting machine, for short 
61 Irish patriot 
62 Witticism 
63 J.FK speedsters· 
64 Poet Lizette 
DOWN 
1 Part of a wk. 2 Actor Teeter 3 Follower of here 
or there 4lgnite 5 Enlighten 6 Ta-ta, in Turino 7 Civil-rights org. a-Beach, 
north of Boca 
Raton 
9"-Poor Richard": Franklin 
10 Oriental nurse 11 Nat or Natalie 
12 An anagram for 
seat 13 Cambodian coin 
21 See red 24 Pale purple 
ACROSS 
1 Stroke of luck 
6 Ratters 
1 o King toppers 
14 Swift 
15 "--Journey to 
Antarctica"· Pyne 16 Speck of dust 17 With sarcasm 
19 Comedian King 
20 "Ruffles-," by 43Across 
22 Soap component 
23 Chemical suffix 
24 Like George Apley 
27 Bizarre English singer 
33 Pocatello campus 34 But, in Bonn 36 Tex. longhorns 
37 First Lady who employed 43 Across as press secretary 
40"Not­stirring": Shak. 
41 Author Raphael Gibbs, to his friends 
42 "--Got a Crush on You" 43 Author Liz from 
Austin 45 Five breakers 46 Compass point 47 Methuselah, to 
Enoch 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


49 Author Vidal 
50 Historic periods 
51 Scenite's home 
52 "Look 
Homeward, Angel" hero 
53 Mills, Smiths or Wrights: Abbr. 
54 Salinger girl 
55 Hwys. 
56 V.P. aided by 43 Across 
58 Sault -Marie 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
u11 o'rt, ns to\~ ""'"'"'-,~.t: .....o~ 0\liC\::L'i, STVP£NPIJUS JIM' 
MON·LAPY.' lE.h.PS \N\0 -rnt. CLOSET TC:> 
5\.\E CAN'\ G\fo,NGE. Br..CK \NTh 1-\\S DI5CO'lE.R ~-i'CJ..Q.·OLD ALTER EGO, 
~\LD-Mr-.NNER~D Cf.L~\N .'
""~ SE.CR£1' 
IDENHN.' 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
~~~\-\\)(}\Do iO\l W~T toR Yl1V~ cru£GION? I'll GNE. ~OJ f>, OOAA~R. ...OR 1-\tR£., 3::) CEtUS. 
I SPENT ~ tiQ«H ~11\IS! 
26 Architectural style 27 Ger. metropolis 28 Order, in Orleans 29 Wine: Comb. form 30 Varnish ingredient 31 Orchard 32 Feudal slaves 
35 Plants that last two years 38 Slangy assent 39 Where the cookie crumbles 44 Steffi Graf's game 45 Prompt 47 Like Chablis 48 Harrington's "The -America" 

"Arnold! The bird! The bird! ... You get back up there and get the bird!" 

is coming... But first it's Friday the 13th steiJhen kinlls.. 8:00 PM 




::;3~~jl!~ili~ 
THE OMEN 
THE SHINING 12:20 AM 

10:10 PM 
HELLRAISER 2:30AM 
All movies in Cushing Auditorium (§)o@[pJ@ [Ji)®@ ~@@] ~w ®[!JJLID ?!}[ji)@] • 
I 
.. 


Sports
page 20 Friday, October 13, 1989 
National champs visit Joyce ACC 
NO volleyball hosting Ill. State, defending titleholder Texas 

By GREG SCHECKENBACH 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will continue its homestand against Illinois State tonight and defending na­tional champion Texas on Saturday. 
Both matches are scheduled for 7:30p.m. at the Joyce ACC. 
Currently, the Irish are 2-0 in their five-match home stretch with victories over Northern Illinois and Eastern Michigan. Overall, Notre Dame has com.­
piled  a  disappointing  5-9  
record.  
Illinois  State  comes  to  the  

Joyce ACC with an impressive 10-7 record and what Irish coach Art Lambert says is an outstanding team. 
"They really know their way around the court," said Lambert. "They are well coached and very patient, which means that we are expecting long rallies." 
The key to victory for Notre Dame is ball control . If the Irish can keep from making passing errors and continue to put pressure on the opponents, Lambert believes his team's tal­ent should lift the Irish over many more experienced teams like the senior-dominated Redbirds. 

Green's attitude the same in NFL 
Mark Green, Notre Dame's ebullient tri­captain for the 1988 national championship team, now is trying to help a team with simi­lar goals, similar national attention and a singular purpose -to reach the top of the football world again. 
But playing football in the pros is different from the college ranks, even more so because Green is now a member of the legendary Chicago Bears. 

"What really helped me was my ability to play special teams," Green says. "That was very important. I can do more for them than carry the ball. I can run both kickoff and punt returns, and that's the advantage I have over some players." 
The versatile Green could have played flanker or defensive back during his Notre Dame career, had he not settled in at tail­back, leading a backfield that included such standouts as current tri-captain Anthony Johnson and rushing leader Tony Brooks. 
He is one of those guys you like to see suc­ceed. He was a team leader by attitude as well as by example last season, his always upbeat nature rubbing off on his teammates. 
The transition, for Green, was a move to a higher level of all-around play. Even at its ul­timate best, college ball doesn't match up. 
"The main difference I see is that the game is speeded up a notch," Green says. "The guys are all faster, and they seem bigger, too. I remember once you left high school, college ball was speeded up, and the pros take it to another level entirely." 
Green has continued the Irish tradition of producing excellent returners, seeing time primarily on special teams. Mike Ditka's Bears are doing their best to make Chicago forget baseball, currently riding atop the NFC Central Division, with a 4-1 record. The Bears travel to Houston to play the Oilers 
see GREEN I page 16 


Sliding soccer team faces Akron 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY 
Sports Writer 
Looking to end a live-game winless streak, the Notre Dame men's soccer team returns to action Friday night. hosting the Akron Zips at 7:30 at Krause Stadium 
team," said Irish coach Dennis Grace. "We've never beaten them (the series record is 0-6­1). We tied them once three years ago, the night my son was born." 
Although the statistics do not look good for Notre Dame, Grace remains confident. 
"This is one of those situa­tions where years ago Akron was the yardstick that everyone measured themselves by," said Grace. "However, we've been fortunate to play a lot of good teams this year and I think we can play with them." 
The Irish, 5-5-2, have had a full week of practice after re­turning from a weekend road­trip in which they did not score, tying Cal. State Los Angeles 0­0 and losing to Santa Clara 4­0. 
"In California, we did enough to score; it just didn't happen," said Grace. "We're not panick­ing. The thing you want to do is create scoring opportunities. We've been able to do that." 
Grace will be looking to se­nior goalkeeper Danny Lyons to lead the defense against the Zips. Lyons needs only five more matches to break the Notre Dame career game ap­pearance record, which stands at 60. 
"We caught Santa Clara at a really bad time. No one should score four goals on us," said Grace. 

Alicia Turner 
"We ;an win if we have team play," ;;aid Lambert. "Every in­dividual must help somewhere for us to compete." 
The starting squad will re­main intact for the Irish this weekend. Freshmen Alicia Turner and Jessica Fiebelkorn will try to continue their mur­derous ways. They are cur­rently ranked first and second in kills for Notre Dame with 183 and 153, respectively. 
Senior setter Taryn Collins will try to add to her school­record career assist total. Junior sparkplug Tracey Shelton will try to match her career-high 27 kills recorded last weekend. Chris Choquette and Kathy Cunningham also will contribute to the Irish at­tack. 

Illinois State is led by the 
swing of Tracy Young, who has 
recorded an unbelievable 500 
kills in 17 matches. Lisa McAtee 
is not far behind with 395 kills. 
The Irish and the Redbirds 
have both played Purdue in the 
last few weeks, with Notre 
Dame emerging victorious and 
Illinois St. not being as fortu­
nate. 
The real fun begins for the Irish Saturday night when they grapple with defending national champion Texas. The Longhorns hold a 12-5 record with losses to the likes of top­ranked UCLA and number-two Hawaii. 
Last season, Notre Dame took Texas to live games be­fore losing. 
"If we have the enthusiasm. intensity, and focus we had against Eastern Michigan, especially in the last game, we can challenge anyone," said Lambert. 
The young Irish squad might easily be intimidated by such a formidable opponent. Lambert thinks otherwise. 
"Every game we play this year is tough. We have to want to play every game or we just won't do very well," said Lambert. 
see TEXAS I page 16 
APPhoto 
National League playoff MVP Will Clark will be pointing the way as the San Francisco Giants meet the American League champion Oakland Athletics in the first All-Bay Area World Series. The Series begins 
Saturday at Oakland-Alameda County Stadium. 
October 13-15, 1989 
Friday Women's soccer vs. Alma, 5 p.m. Friday Men's soccer vs. Akron, 7:30 p.m. Friday Volleyball vs. Ill. State, 7:30 p.m. Saturday Volleyball vs. Texas, 7:30p.m. 
• 
~ 
• Women vs. Alma I page 15 
In their last live games, the Irish have three losses and two ties. Akron, ranked third in the Great Lakes Region, brings to the game an 8-3-1 record and an eight-year history of beating Notre Dame. 
"Akron is a tremendous 






