
VOL. XXIII NO. 1 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1989 
..' ~~. ' ~.., 
· THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Martinez flown to U.S. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Reputed Medellin cocaine cartel money launderer Eduardo Martinez Romero was flown Wednesday night by U.S. officials out of Colombia bound for the United States, an administration offi· cia! disclosed. 
Drug Enforcement Administration agent Frank Shults said. "He's in the air; coming into the United States sometime in the early morn­ing." 
Martinez was flown out of Bogota on a DEA plane, Shults said. 
Shults did not say where the plane would land. 
Martinez was arrested during the first weekend after Colombia President Virgilio Barco launched a crackdown on drug traffickers in his coun­try triggered by the Aug. 18 as­sassination of leading presiden­tial candidate Luis Carlos Galan, an outspoken foe of the drug trade. 
The Bogota newspaper El Tiempo quoted Martinez after his arrest as saying he was in­nocent. 
"At no time have I had links to the Medellin cartel and I don't know any of its mem­bers," the newspaper quoted him as saying. 
In the emergency measures imposed by Barco was a re-in­stitution of the extradition agreement with the United States that had been thrown out by the Colombian Supreme Court in 1987. 
Martinez, 35, was indicted in March in Atlanta as a result of an investigation code-named "Oporation Polar Cap" that 
see MARTINEZ/ page 3 

Registration abroad changes 
By JOHN ZALLER 
Staff Reporter 
The Office of Foreign Studies will change its registration pol­icy for overseas students this year, according to Isabel Charles, director of foreign study programs. 
Charles said the change comes because of the University's new on-line regis­tration. The on-line registra­tion will make it possible for students to register for their classes by phone and confirm almost immediately their course schedules for the follow­ing year. 
"The actual use of telephones overseas (to register) may be a problem." said Charles. She touchtone phones, which are necessary for registration, or enough phones to accommodate students overseas. 
Charles added that if tele­phones were not a possibility for registration that either a FAX machine or an express courier would be used for re­turning the students schedules to the University for faster processing of schedules. 
The former registration pro­cess entailed sending a member of the faculty to the foreign study sites where he or she would collect the schedules and bring them back to the University. 
"We hope overseas students will have the same shot at 



The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

Waliflower 
Sophomore Marc Cerrone ponders which piece of contemporary wall art he should buy to hang in his room in Holy Cross. Cerrone is one of many students to buy posters at the annual poster sale, which runs until Frida on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune. 
By VALLI VAIRAVAN 
Staff Reporter 
Over the course of two years, campus housing has switched from a situation of overcrowd­ing and freshmen boarding in study lounges to empty and partially filled rooms all over campus. 
The Office of Student Residences expected some over­crowding to occur this year, according to Director Evelyn Reinebold. In preparation for this, the office sent out a bul­letin last year to all dormitory residents stating that a lottery might be used to determine who could reside in the dorms this year. 
Reinbold said, "I don't really know for certain what hap­pened... I think there were more people who moved off campus and who didn't return to the university. That took care of the problem for us." 
"We have about 52 empty male beds and 64 empty female beds," said Reinebold, adding, "the reason for the number of female beds is because of the new [women's] dorms." 
The cause of the 52 empty male beds is due to Holy Cross Hall remaining open this year. No freshmen were placed in Holy Cross because it will be closed this spring, Reinbold said. 
Farley Hall is one example of the turnaround in housing. Its capacity is 248 residents and it presently holds 243 residents. Sister Mary Louise Gude, rec­tress of Farley said, ''I'm very pleased that the returning resi­dents (from Farley who are studying abroad) will all have rooms here. This is really a wonderful situation for us...I'm 
enjoying this flexibility." 
A major cause of the new flexibility in housing has to do with the two new women's dorms, Siegfried and Knott Halls. For the first time in 
Notre Dame history, all female transfer students were able to be housed, Gude said. 
Sister Patricia Clark, rectress of Knott Hall said, "Our situation is very good. We have about 235 girls with just a few empty spaces." 
Both Knott and Siegfried have a relatively large number of freshmen (over 100) , com­pared to other dorms. Over the next two to three years, how­ever, Clark said she anticipates a greater class balance. 
According to the Office of Student Residences, the University has the capacity to house over 6,300 students. 

SMC student survives plane crash 
By CHAD KERLIN 
News Staff 
One of the worst disasters of the year, the Sioux City, Iowa crash of a United Airlines DC­1 0, holds special significance for Saint Mary's College senior Kari Milford. 
She is a survivor -one of the 186 who were lucky enough to live through the crash and its fiery aftermath. There were 11 0 others who were not so lucky. 
Milford was flying home to Marion, Ind. after a visit with her sister in Denver, Colo. last July 19 when disaster struck. The flight from Denver to Chicago went horribly wrong when the plane experienced "complete hydraulic failure" due to an explosion in the rear engine. The plane, just seconds short of a level emergency landing, plowed into the earth in a cloud of dirt, smoke and flying metal. 
"I clearly remember all the flying glass and smoke every­where. And the noise ... I guess I've just managed to block most of that out," Milford said. 
Milford was travelling beside one of her nephews, her older brother and another nephew across the aisle in the second to the last row of the plane. 
"On my other side were two old ladies. I remember they shared their Oreos with us." Milford recalled, adding, "They didn't survive. I guess it's stuff like that that really bothers me so much." 
In fact, only a handful of people in her section survived-­both her nephews and her brother were among the lucky. 
The first indications of trou­ble came over the intercom when the captain reported that they were going to have to make "a rough landing." 
Milford recalls, "I didn't re­ally realize how rough they meant. I thought it was going to be like speedbumps or some­thing. i just prayed all the way down and hoped for the best. All the passengers were great­apprehensively calm. You could tell it was serious, though, by the looks on the faces and in the eyes of the stewardesses." 
"Instead of speedbumps, the impact shook us so much that I felt like I was in a dryer, being rolled over and over. We were told to assume the crash posi­tion and even though I tried as hard as I could, my head was still flung all around." 
"When the plane settled, the stewardesses just kept yelling, 'Unfasten your seatbelts and get out; it might blow!"' 
In the confusion, Milford didn't know if her brother and nephew across the aisle were alive or even where they were, 
see SURVIVOR/ page 3 

j 
The Observer Thursday, September 7, 1989

page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 
A sense of compassion 

A passenger boat with 175 people on board sank in rough seas off eastern Java, Indonesia and at least 28 people 
exists at Notre Dame

drowned, police said Wednesday. At least 101 people were missing 
after the boat sank in the Madura Straits on Friday,. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Wu'er Kaixi was among China's best, a promising student at Beijing Normal University when the June events at Tiananmen Square thrust him into the forefront and then into a night for his life. Wu'er, 21, is now at Harvard University, where he will try to keep the reform movement alive. He knows he may have started a life of permanent exile, but he said Wednesday that the horror of watching his friends massacred will keep him going. He and his girlfriend completed their escape from China in June. The China Information Center at Harvard has become his home. It is through this hub's telephones, fax machines and computers that he works to effect change in his native land. 
Students and teachers infected with the AIDS virus should be free to attend class without fear their disease will be made public, a new guide for the nation's schools said Wednesday. "Someone At School Has AIDS," released by the National Association of State Boards of Education, said the deadly virus "is not transmitted by casual, everyday contact" so confidentiality should be school policy. Parents shouldn't have to reveal their child's infection if the decision is sanctioned by a physician, who finds the child does not have secondary infections, such as tuberculosis, said the guidelines. The report suggests that school superintendents be notified, but even those "decisions should be approved by the infected person and a student's parents or guardians." 
WEATHER 

Partly Cloudy 
Partly cloudy today with a 30 percent chance of thundershowers, highs in the 80s. Partly cloudy Thursday night with a 30 percent chance of thundershowers, lows in the 60s. Partly cloudy and warm Friday with a 30 percent chance of thundershowers. Highs in the middle 80s. 
l'lformauon compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
Help.
Our Cities. Our Oceans. Our Trees. Our Towns. Our Forests. Our Rivers. Our Air. Our Mountains. Our Plants. Our Fishes. Our Streams. Our Deserts. Our Lakes. Our Tomorrows. 
Give a hoot. Don't pollute. 
Forest Service, U.S.D.A.ri1Ei 
"Sometimes I feel like I am going crazy. I've got all this sex-drive going in me, pounding in me. burning in me. tantalizing me. It delights and yet disturbs me; it confuses me and bewilders me. What I do about it often bothers me and makes me feel rotten about myself " 
A line from a Judy Blume novel? No, not quite. Actually it's a prayer called "For Good Attitudes Towards Sex," from the "Day by Day" prayer book. Campus Ministry puts out this gem once a year filled with prayers for the Notre Dame student. 
The book has something for everyone including one "For a Pre-med," "A Nurse's Prayer," and "Cadet Prayer." One may pray "The Party" prayer prior to going out and in the morning try "Prayer before Examinations" in case you didn't get a chance to study. 
My personal favorite is "The Cafeteria" which begins "Today I complained about the food in the cafeteria. Forgive me, Lord." My guess is Bill Hickey likes this one, too. 
You're probably wondering if I have a point to all this or if I'm just trying to get a cheap laugh. I personally would not pull out this book and try to find the prayer for the lame journalist, but the book does present a larger point about Notre Dame. Notre Dame is a Catholic University and "Day by Day" is just a small symbol of that fact. A prayer book like this is available to those who chose to express their religion as such, but Christianity is found in so many other ways at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame is a place where you can find a friend who will walk to the Grotto and light a candle for someone you love. At a small mass in a Notre Dame dorm fellow students will listen as you offer a personal petition and they will pray for you. Here students have rectors, assistant rectors and RA's that will listen to their problems and even sometimes offer unsolicited advice just because they care. 
You cannot attend mass with the President of the University at the Grotto just anywhere. And at Notre Dame this occurs fairly often. At Notre Dame people know when someone is in need and they send cards and hold masses. In Chapels across campus people hold all-night vigils when fellow students face death 
OF INTEREST 
The Society of Women Engineers is holding a s'mores party today at 7:30 pm in the Lewis Courtyard for all current members, freshmen, intents, and anyone interested in joining SWE. Call Jane at x4673 for more in­formation. 
Brigadier General Bruce Miketinac, Chief of the Army's Medical Corps and Director of Health Care Operations office of the Surgeon General, will discuss administrative and profes­sional health care career opportunities on Thursday, September 7, 4:30 pm, Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
The Council for Fun and Learning volun­teer orientation meeting will be tonight from 
5:30 to 7 pm in the CSC's multi-purpose room. Any questions? Call Peter Smith at x3659. 
Neighborhood Study Help Program sign-ups will continue Thursday and Friday in the dining halls. Our organizational meeting is Sunday, September 10, at 6:30 pm in the multi­purpose room of the CSC. Tutoring begins Monday Sept. 11 and Tuesday, Sept. 12. Call Jennifer at x3725 or Patty at x4231 if you have any questions. 

'You cannot attend mass with the President of the University at the Grotto just anywhere.' 
Kelley Tuthill 
Assistant News Editor 
prematurely. 
Students at Notre Dame give hours a week to volunteer just because they enjoy the pleasure they can give to others. It's not uncommon to hear of students who are excellent students, athletes, involved in dorm and campus activities, yet still find time to volunteer in various service activities. How many campuses had a Christmas in April where students gave up a day to clean up the local area? 
From Campus Ministry to the residence halls to the Center for Social Concerns a Christian atmosphere pervades throughout the University. One does not need the "Day by Day" prayer book or even to go to mass to experience the feeling of caring at Notre Dame-the caring that is an integral part of what Christianity at Notre Dame is all about. 
For a long time I didn't understand what it was to go to a Catholic university, I didn't think it meant anything different from going to any other school. But to you freshmen who don't yet realize why you're at a Catholic school, you'll soon find out. Wait until something goes wrong-you'll find help and kindness all around you whether you ask for it or not. 
You'll soon realize why you felt a certain way after the first time you visited this place. You'll know why you decided that you just had to come here. Notre Dame is a great university, but more importantly Notre Dame is a great Catholic University. It's hard to explain, but anyone who has been in need and been at Notre Dame has certainly felt what is so special about a Catholic university, especially this one. 
The formal opening of the school year will take place in Stepan Center at 10 a.m. Sunday, Sept. 10, with a concelebrated mass. The presiding celebrant will be University President Father Edward Malloy. All members of the faculty are expected to attend the opening mass and to participate in the academic proces­sion in academic robes. For further informa­tion, contact Associate Provost Isabel Charles. 
Anyone interested in volunteering at the Center for the Homeless is required to at­tend one of the organizational meetings. The meetings are being held from 7 to 8:30 pm at the CSC on the following days: Thursday, Sept. 7; Monday, Sept. 11; and Wednesday, Sept. 13. Call Diane Ricker x4986 or Steve Raymond at 283-2833 for more information. 
The N.D. Martial Arts Institute will have beginner classes Thursday and Sunday from 
6:30 to 8:30 pm in Room 219 at the Rockne Memorial. Anyone interested is invited to attend. No experience needed. 
All South Dining Hall employees are asked to attend a mandatory meeting tonight at 
7:15 pm in the South Dining Hall. 
--·l 

Design Edhor .................. Chris Labaree Design Assftant ........... Kristin Costello Typesetters ......................... Dan Towers ................................................ Molly Schwartz 
News Editor ........................... Greg Lucas 
News Copy Editor .•..•.•• John O'Brien 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Sports Copy Editor......... Greg Guffey VIewpoint Editor......•. Christine Walsh 
(219) 239-7471 
VIewpoint Copy Editor. Dave Bruner VIewpoint Layout......•••. Katie Foster Accent Edhor ............•.... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor ..........Terri Walsh The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
Accent Designer ............. Alison Cocks 
during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
Typists ....................................Janet Herold 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· 
.................................................... Lisa Bourdon 
chased for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
...........................-...................Erin Shirtzinger 
The Observer is a member of The Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction rights 
NO Day Editor ....................Janet Herold 
are reserved. 
Photographer....... Andrew McCios~ 

Thursday, September 7, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Psychiatrists establish program for satanic teenagers 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO-Psychiatrists and psychologists at Hartgrove Hospital bristled Wednesday at being called modern-day exor­cists, but they are creating one of the nation's first treatment programs to wean teenagers from Satanism. 
"In no way are we compara­ble to the old exorcists," said Michael Weiss, an adolescent psychologist at the North Side hospital, which plans to begin offering the program this month. 
"The kids who will be admit­ted will be here primarily be­cause of their behavioral and 
Survivor 
continued from page 1 
but her first instinct was to get the other nephew to safety. They jumped through a hole formed where four seats and the aisle had been. 
"I told my nephew, 'Run! Run as fast as you can!' All around me were people I just knew were dead; some of them were still strapped in their seats. It emotional problems. No one will be hospitalized for strange beliefs or unusual values that we would disagree with," Weiss said. 
"I don't think there is any doubt Satanism is a growing problem," said social worker Dale Trahan, who has been re­searching satanic beliefs for three years and was contracted to organize the program for Hartgrove's new Center for the Treatment of Ritualistic Deviance. 
"We don't know the percent­ages because so much is secre­tive, but we do know .. .it is be­ginning to show up throughout the country," Trahan said. 
was horrible." 
Milford didn't get to the hos­pital for about an hour where they quickly set about scrub­bing the tar from her many wounds and setting her badly crushed left hand. 
Milford spent eight days in the hospital in Sioux City be­fore returning to Marion. There she had daily three-hour ses­sions with doctors until return­ing to Saint Mary's. She contin­ues to see doctors each week. 

niE§IHIMIEN 
RAFTING ON THE EAST RACE SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1989 9:00am until11:30am 
Bus Leaves NO Main Circle at 8:30,9:00,9:30, I O:OOam East Race at 10:30 and I 1:30am 
NO TICKETS NO CHARGE 
More such programs will be needed as police, teachers and parents learn to recognize in­volvement, said Jerry Simandl, a Chicago police youth officer and expert on satanic cults, who has helped train Hartgrove staff. 
"That's been the problem. There aren't places to take the kids," Simandl said. 
In the program, teenagers will spend four to eight weeks as in-patients and undergo in­dividual and group counseling. Most of the youths will be ad­mitted voluntarily. 
Hartgrove's facility -to be staffed by ~pecially trained psy­chiatrists, p:;;ychologists, social workers and nurses -should receive its first patients in two to four weeks, and initially will take as many as six patients at a time, Weiss said. A similar program exists at Denver's Bethesda PsychHealth. 
The new program will seek to undermine Satanism's underly­ing belief system, which ham­pers conventional treatment. 
Satanism "gives them the promise of power and privilege beyond anything they ever imagined. Not only can they have everything they want ... but can do so while totally in­dulging themselves in drugs, sex or any momentary plea­sure," Weiss said. 
"We try to help them see how unrealistic the promises are. Our ultimate goal is to make them able to function in the world so they can have a rea­sonable and successful life for themselves and not harm any­one else." 
Youngsters involved in Satanism often exhibit unusual behavior, which can include suicide attempts, violent rages, rejection of family, drug use, sexual promiscuity, a drastic drop in grades, intensified re­bellion, a strong interest in heavy-metal music, role-playing games or horror films, and the use of occult symbols such as "666" or upside-down crosses. 

SMC Board discusses Alcohol Awareness 
By LAUREL VITALE 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance met Wednesday to discuss plans for Alcohol Awareness Week and cultural diversity seminars to be held this semester. 
Student Body President, Lisa Catenacci, and student govern­ment leaders are involved in planning the Alcohol Awareness Week, which is scheduled for October 15-21. The activities are being directed toward peo­ple who are "aware of the po­tential dangers of alcohol but don't realize hvw easiiy over­whelming it can be," Catenacci said. 
There will be an alcohol and relationships panel consisting of students and faculty to re­late personal stories and ideas on alcohol and how it can be enjoyed but not abused. 
A cultural diversity seminar will be held October 12 with ac­tor Gene Carlo Esposito. The star of the movie "Do the Right Thing" will be facilitating a dis­cussion at Saint Mary's con­cerning cultural diversification on Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's campuses. 
rw cyar-t{) ['o ~~ ~ %ctor-an.te.. A; <~
~ 

Now Hiring full time experienced waitresses able to start at 3:00 pm, pizza makers, line cooks and part time banquet waitresses. 
Saint Mary's student govern­ment also discussed "Over-the­Hump-Day Health Break" to be held September 13. Members of student government will be serving health foods to students from 11a.m. to 4p.m. in front of Haggar College Center. 
"The health break is a strat­egy for the government leaders to become more familiar to the entire student body," Catenacci expressed. 
The Board of Governance will continue meeting every Wednesday evening this semester. 
Martinez 
continued from page 1 
federal officials said revealed 
an operation that laundered 
billions of dollars in cocaine 
profits through U.S. and for­
eign banks. 
Drug traffickers in Colombia 
fear extradition to the 
United States because they be­
lieve they will not be able to 
escape conviction. 


.. 
INVITATION

OFFICE OF 
([\MPUS 
TO SACRAMENTAL

MINISTRY 
PREPARATION 

BAPTISM, FULL COMMUNION, CONFIRMATION in the Roman Catholic Church 
INFORMATION SESSIONS: 
Tuesday. September 12: 
7 pm: -for unbaptized people interested in joining the Roman Catholic Church and their sponsors. 
-for baptized people interested in Full Communion in the Roman CatholicTradition and their sponsors. 
-for baptized Catholics willing to volunteer to join with and act as sponsors for persons who wish to become Roman Catholics. 
Wednesday. September 13: 
7 pm: -for Roman Catholics interested in receiving the sacrament of Confirmation and their sponsors. 
-for volunteer sponsors for Catholics preparing for Confirmation. 

Meeting Place: COUNSELING CENTER MEETING ROOM Third Floor, Student Health Center 
Call: Sr. Mary Curran, CSC -Badin Hall -239-5242 

Thursday, September 7, 1989
The Observer

page 4 
Foreign 
continued from page 1  
checkmarked classeCharles referring to policy.  s," the  said new  

The change in registration comes at a time when some students ·are unhappy with the current foreign study registra­tion po !icy. 
"I was very satisfied with my course selection, but I know other students who had prob­lems, especially with the English department," said Mike Donovan. a senior philosophy major who studied in London during the spring semester. "There were quite a few dissat­isfied English majors in London," he added. 
"The problems that oceurred in London were the same prob­lems here," said Anastasia Gutting, director of the London Program. According to Gutting, the policy of eheckmarking courses makes course selection very uncertain even for those on campus. 
The London Program, inde­pendent of the Offiee of Foreign Studies, has already initiated using an express courier to re­turn sehedules for prompt reg­istration. The main problem with registering students, said Gutting, is the lack of personnel in the London Program office. 
"Hight now we have two peo­ple in the office to deal with 80 students eaeh semester and the Hegistrar's Office didn't seem conscious of that until last year," Gutting said. 
"We will see to it that stu­dents on the London Program have the same advantage (for registration) as all other stu­dents at Notre Dame," said Gutting. 



Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
llliWIMI · t•OIA•A 
Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD 
CLUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 
Nation reacts to Bush plan to combat drugs 
Associated Press 
President Bush's pledge to fight drugs "block by block, child by child" was a popular sound bite on newscasts Wednesday, but when young people on one bloek were asked if the war on drugs could be won. most were pessimistic. 
"It's going to take a lot, because it's not just the students, it's like everybody, you know, policemen, people like that, the big people," said Yolanda Brown, 17, one of a group of students interviewed Wednesday outside T.C. 
Williams High School in Alexandria, Va., about Bush's speech the night before. 
The chairman of the Chicago Housing Authority, Vince Lane, said on "CBS This Morning" that the president had taken an important step by throwing down the gauntlet. 
"I was surprised to hear that we did get $50 million alloeated to public housing ....With about $30 million here in Chicago I can clean up every troubled 
high-rise  in  the  city.  So  the  
money  will  be  very  much  
appreciated."  

Correction 
In an article on the Student Senate which appeared in the September 5 edition of The Observer, it was incorrectly reported that Student Activ­ities would be opening a coffee shop in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. The information re­ported by The Observer was confirmed by a source in student government. The Of­fice of Student Affairs is opening a copy center in the basement of LaFortune in the near future. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
Need to Get Away? 
TAKE THE WINDY CITY SHUTTLE 
Spend the Day in Chicago -Cost is only $10.00 
Come to the Information Desk, 1st. Floor LaFortune, for details 

r=~~~;;;:::::=.'=: 


"THE ITALIAN RISTORANTE" 
Open for Dinner 

Carry Outs Available. Serving your favorite wine and cocktail Yow hMt -Roberto ...,._. 
Pasta Dishes • Chicken Cacciatore 
• Veal •Manicotti • Lasagna 
•Fettuccine Alfredo • Fish • Shrimp 
•Pizza • Banquet• & Prlute P•rties up to 100 
South of N.D. Golden Dome 


~:1 llH 
1412 South Bend Ave. (219)232-4244 Tuesday-Saturday 4-11 pm NOW OPEN SUNDAYS 4-9pm 

JUST WHEN YOU NEED IT 
The Navy has 530.000 or more to help vou finish your last two n:ars of college. 
The Naval ReserYe Officers Tr.lining Corps (NROTC) Tw~ Year Scholarship Program can pay your ruilion, textbooks and insuuclional fees, plus gi\'e you a monthlv SI 00 ta.x·free allowance eluting ).our last 20 months of college. 
Upon gro~dualion you'll be commissioned a Navy officer and et~oy t.he benefits and opponunilies offered, such as advanced education in any of the Navy's high·tech fields. 
NROTC rwo-year scholarships 
arc highly competiti\'e. 
Applications must be tumed in 
early in your sophomore year. For 
more infonnalion. see or call: 
LT Dan Cochran 
239-7274 
NAVY ROTC 
You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 
I 

I 
Business 
Thursday, September 7, 1989 page 5 
Stocks drop, dollar retreats, but healthy bonds slow slide 
Associated Press 
Jones average fall nearly 40 ket analyst at Merrill Lynch & 
points around midday. At the Co. He was referring to com­
NEW YORK -The stock close the average was down puterized trading strategies market on Wednesday suffered 24.89 points at 2, 719.79. that buy and sell stocks based the first sizable drop since Analysts said there was no on predetermined formulas. reaching all-time highs last major economic news to ac­It was an inauspicious begin­month, but the Dow Jones in­count for the stock market's ning for the post-vacation au­dustrial average remained retreat, which followed a rally tumn trading season after the within striking distance of that pushed up the widely sluggish activity surrounding record levels. watched industrial average 150 the Labor Day holiday. 
In other markets, the dollar points from late July to late "Most traders were looking retreated after its recent surge August. toward a pickup of the market and bond prices improved. "You had some sell programs with the big players probably 
The healthy bond market in a market that was ripe for all back, so it was rather dis­helped arrest the slide in some R&R anyway," said appointing," said Charles stocks, which saw the Dow Walter Murphy, a senior mar-Jensen, an analyst at MKI 
Coors to introduce new Keystone beer by featuring male fantasies 
Associated Press during professional football level" than the $11 million to and major league baseball $12 million that the Stroh 
GOLDEN, Colo. -Adolph games Sept. 16-17. Brewery Co. spends on Coors Co. plans to unveil its Popular-priced beers -such Milwaukee brand, the nation's new Keystone beer this month as Old Milwaukee, Meister Brau No. 1 popular-priced beer, with a high-priced advertising and Milwaukee's Best-are a Klugman said. campaign designed to attract bit cheaper than the premium The ad campaign, designed by male buyers by featuring their beers, but more expensive than Foote, Cone & Belding of perceived fantasies. economy beers. Chicago, features fantasies of 
The beer, the brewer's first Although popular-priced men photographing woman entry into the "popular-priced" beers have lost market share in candidates for a sports category, will be touted as recent years, Coors decided to magazine's swimsuit issue, "bottled-beer taste in a can" go ahead with Keystone be­pinch-hitting a home run in the 
and will sell for about $10.45 cause "we didn't think that World Series and winning bil­to $11.50 a case, a Coors we'd pick up that volume with a lions of dollars. spokeswoman said. Coors is premium beer," said Robert scheduled to begin selling the Klugman, company vice presi­Klugman said Coors officials beer Monday. dent of development. believe the advertisements "will 
The beer will get its multi­"We promised our distribu­not be found by most reason­
million dollar advertising debut tors we'd spend at a greater able people to be offensive." 
Securities Corp. and to reports that Japan's 
In the bond market, the central bank was continuing to Treasury's benchmark 30-year sell dollars to knock the cur­bond rose more than $3 for ev­rency down. ery $1,000 in face value. Its But Earl Johnson, a trader yield, which falls when the price for Harris Trust & Co. in rises, dropped to 8.1 percent. Chicago, said overall demand The improvement came in spite for the dollar remained strong. of persistent concerns that the "We're just seeing a technical Federal Reserve will not move retrenchment," he said. to lower interest rates anytime The stock market is behaving soon. differently from two years ago. 
The dollar's decline was at­In 1987, the Dow Jones indus­tributed partly to speculation trial average hit an all-time that West Germany and Japan high on Aug. 25 and then snow­might hike their interest rates, balled downward. 
Government only observer in airline takeover attempt 
Associated Press 
add United to its watch list. 
Skinner said he should have a 
Transportation Secretary better idea in a couple of weeks Samuel Skinner met Wednesday about what, if any, action his with the head of United Airlines department should take on the in Washington but said the buyout trend. He said he may government is merely an ob­make some recommendations server in the proposed em­to President Bush. ployee-management takeover. The transportation secretary 
recently expressed concern 
"I haven't prejudged any­about potential foreign in­thing," Skinner said before volvement in U.S. airline meeting with Stephen Wolf, takeovers. British Airways PLC chairman of United parent UAL is expected to help finance the Corp., on plans for the nation's $300-a-share labor-manage­second-largest carrier. ment UAL buyout offer. 
Skinner said one of the de­partment's top priorities has The $6.75 billion offer for been scrutinizing the proposed Chicago-based UAL is spear­takeover of Northwest Airlines headed by United pilots who by Los Angeles investor Alfred belong to the Air Line Pilots Checchi. He said his staff will Association. 


''AN EVENING WITH HENRI NOUWEN AND THE L'ARCHE COMMUNITY: EXPERIENCING GOD'S LOVE IN CARE AND COMMUNITY'' 
Thursday, September 7, 1989 8:00P.M. Washington Hall -Admission Free 

r--r~-:--=-:--::-7'::-~~r~:r...-~~~.,..,.,. This pNHalalloa Is 
e for students, faculty, and staff 

Henri Nouwen, a well-known spiritual writer, priest, and one-time Notre Dame 
who work with the mentally

professor, will visit Notre Dame accompanied by four companions and 
handicapped or who have c members of the LJ\rche Daybreak community near Toronto: two are mentally handicapped family member handicapped, Gregory Lannan and Karen Neale, and two are staff, Joe 
e for members of the local com·

Vorstermans and John Guido. 
munity who are Interested in service and mb:dslry of any kind 

This L'Arcbe community/family will share with the Notre Dame family e for all who are wUllng to be 
challenged to a deeper

their experience of care and God's love, an integral part of the L'Arche com­
appreciation of God's love

munities founded by Jean Vanier in France twenty years ago. There are now 
and gifts

Henri NolllftD aud BlU .ibJI BlUeD al Daybreak, the L~e c:ommuaJty Ia Toronto Ing stronger faith In and through work and dally Ufe 

A unique opportunity! Henri Nouwen and his companions will share  
their reflections on experiencing God's love in care and community. There  
will be an opportunity for questions and interaction.  
CO-SPONSORS:  
University of Notre Dame  St. Mary's College  LOGAN  
Center for Social Concerns  Office of Campus Ministry  Emmaus: A Conunun.ity with  
Office of Campus Ministry  Psychology Department  the Mentally Handicapped  
Student Government  Moreau Seminary  
Year  and other University departments  
of the Family  FOR MORE INFORMATION: 239-5293  


Viewpoint
page 6 Thursday, September 7, '1989 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Reg1s Coccia 
Exec. News Edltor....... Matthew Gallagher VIewpoint Edltor.................... Dave Bruner Sports Editor...................... Theresa Kelly Accent Editor.............................John Blasi Photo Edltor.............................. Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Edltor............... Christine Gill 
Business Manager Rich Iannelli 
Advertising Manager............. Molly Killen Ad Design Manager........ Shannon Roach Production Manager . . . . ....Alison Cocks Systems Manager.............. Mark Derwent OTS Director.............Angela Bellanca Controller.. . . . .............. Anne Lindner 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objective­ly as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Ed­itor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Ed1tor, Sports Ed1tor, Ac­cent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Making the grade without making the sacrifice 
It's 10:58 and you have two minutes to finish your pop tart, brush your teeth, pack your books and high-tail it to class. Though life may be a bit hectic at this moment, you may still have time to ask yourself one very important question. 
Why did l choose such an early class? Or possibly, why am l even going to class at all? 
Answering such a question might require more than a modicum of thought. After all, you've been in school for nearly all of your life, so there must be some reason for forcing yourself to make the trek to class. To get a good job? To make mom and dad proud? 
flow about because you might enjoy learning? Sorry, not on this campus. Saying those words at most parties is an offense punishable by expulsion, or at least, banishment to a corner by yourself. 
You're safe, however, if you 
Dave Bruner 
Viewpoint Editor 
answered. "I like to learn, but only in class. Outside of class I like to have fun." 
The column by Victor Krebs which appeared in Viewpoint yesterday gave a fitting answer. "What we do in class should not end in class, and what we do in our social life should extend into our class­rooms." We are the same people both in the classroom and out. If you view your education as a sacrifice, you might as well not be at Notre Dame. 
The desire to learn and the desire to have fun aren't mu­tually exclusive. The problem occurs when we separate our lives into "study mode" and "party mode." Both the desire to learn and the desire to have fun should exist side by side. Have fun while you're learning and learn while you're having fun. 
Learn while you're having 
M L 
6 


DOONESBURY 
fun? Why not? All that's necessary is a little change in attitude. Be open to ~arning wherever you are, whether in a classroom, or in the dorm hallway talking politics at 
3:00 a.m., or at the Commons on Saturday night. 
You could even be learning at an off-campus party. What can you learn at an off­campus party? Much, though maybe not the same kinds of things you might learn in class. If one of the reasons you're going out is to meet new people you're already on the right track. 
Find out about other people. Find out what is important to them and what you like about them. Are they serving two kinds of beer? Find out which kind you like best. All this falls under "learning" as much as any classroom. You can learn even when you're not making an effort to learn, as long as you leave yourself open 
Notre Dame abounds with opportunities to expand your horizons. There is a wealth of information here, all free for the taking (or for $14,000, depending on how you look at it).Many of the resources that are available here will be much harder to come by after you leave. Make your learning fun and you won't let a day go by without discovering some­thing new. 

LETTERS 
Graduated tax falls short 
Dear Editor: 
Last Wednesday, Leona Helmsley was pronounced guilty of evading 2 percent of her federal income taxes between 1983 and 1985. Her lawyers disagree, claiming that the tax laws are written in such a way that she may not really have been legally responsible for that 2 percent. For the purposes of this letter, l will assume that the tax laws in this country are clear as a bell, and Leona Helmsley did fail to pay $1.2 million out of the $59.9 million that many people refer to as "her fair share." I wish to address the question: Is it "fair" that some people pay $59.9 million in taxes when they use less governmental ser­vices than the people who pay only a few thousand or, for that matter, no taxes at all? I also wish to examine the philo­sophical implications of a graduated income tax. 
Politicians long ago figured out that they could promise all kinds of special interest groups all kinds of money in order to get elected. I have never under­stood why it is considered a bribe to offer a politician money in return for a favor, but it is not a bribe when the politician offers money in re­turn for votes. The big swindle lies in the fact that the govern­ment does not make any money of its own. Every penny that it gives out, it must take from somewhere else. 
Right now, the majority of your tax dollars does not bene­fit you. Instead, they are spent on others all around the globe, on programs that in many cases are counter-productive to their causes. Hundreds of bil­lions of our dollars each year go to welfare programs in this country and others. To ask for money and help for people in need is the proper, moral way to conduct such business. To hold a gun to our heads and say, "pay up or go to jail" is stealing. Also, to the extent that you involuntarily work for other people, you are a slave. Is Leona the real criminal in this game? 
The concept of a graduated income tax is worse than a flat tax percentage. A graduated income tax essentially punishes the productive for being pro­ductive: the more someone pro­duces, the more that is taken from him or her. In this coun­try, the businesses that make the most money are the ones that have the most value to so­ciety. They produce the best products (if they didn't, they wouldn't be the ones making a lot of money), and they provide the most jobs. Their products, inventions, and ingenuity have made our standard of living the highest in the world. These are the people that, by our current tax laws, must pay the most taxes and the highest percent­age. 
On the other hand, there are people who never acquired the knowledge to be productive enough to support even them­selves. There are people who never stopped to think that they should not have children before they could afford them. These people do not pay taxes; instead they are paid out of tax dollars. The system ends up punishing the competent for being competent and rewarding the incompetent for being in­competent. A system that holds thinking and producing as vices and nonthinking and nonpro­ducing as virtues is doomed for destruction. 
Richard lachetta Sorin Hall September 4, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 


'Lean too much on the approval of people, and it
I ~~~ 
becomes a bed of thorns.' 
Tehyl Hsieh 



-

Accent
Thursday, September 7, 1989 
page 7 

Fr. Nouwen shares his L'Arche family with NO 
.,;;· 

Father Henri Nouwen (I) and companion Bill Van Buren at L'Arche community in Toronto. Nouwen discusses 

the L'Arche experience tonight in Washington Hall. 
CINDY PETRITES accent writer 
Father Henri Nouwen is a man of passion. When he speaks, his hands fly. He points, waves, pounds on the podium, engaging and enthralling his audience. But it is not the former Notre Dame professor's pronounced Dutch accent or his wild gesticulations which captivate the crowd. He may be fascinating to watch, but his words are electric. At 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall, Nouwen kicks off the Year of the Family as he returns with four members of his new family, the L'Arche Daybreak community, to share his story of involvement with L'Arche, his journey to Daybreak, and his reflections on the theme of "God's love in care and community." 
Nouwen, one of today's foremost spiritual writers and a former professor at Harvard, Yale, and Notre Dame, is currently spiritual leader of the L'Arche community in Toronto. He is accompanied by Gregory Lannan, Karen Neale, Joe Vorstermans, and John Guido who are members of L'Arche. An international network of more than 80 communities, L'Arche was founded 20 years ago by Frenchman Jean Vanier for mentally ~andicapped persons and their assistants to live together accordmg to the gospel. Nouwen and his companions live and work at Daybreak, the first L'Arche community in North America. 
Says Nouwen, "It's not an institution. It's not a group home. It's not even an organization which wants to help as many mentally handicapped persons as possible. It's a spiritual community where handicapped people are in the center. L'Arche 
Characters, stories in 'Night' give NBC a hit 
In the heat of the night, methods don't always comply there's passion. In the heat of with the "laid back" methods of the night, there's power. In the the South. While Tibbs heat of the night, there's pain. searches for facts and follows NBC presents all these elements "the book," Gillespie allows -and others --intricately hunches and feelings to solve combined in its explosive the mysteries. Other regulars drama, "In the Heat of the include Sergeant Skinner (Alan Night." Autry), Deputy Jamison (Hugh 

JOEBUCOLO 
To be Continued 
Airing at 8:00 p.m. on Wednesdays, "Night" presents the adventures and scandals faced by the police force of a small Southern town. Inspired by a movie of the same title, this program fills each episode with clever writing, powerful storylines, and compelling characters. Carroll O'Connor (from "All In The Family") stars as Chief Gillespie, and his partner, Virgil Tibbs (Howard Rollins), is a police officer from Philadelphia whose fast-paced O'Connor), and Sergeant Parker (David Hart). 
The writers chose to deal with quite intense subjects, and they are aggressively portrayed. One episode, for example, copes with the problem of wife abuse. The storyline graphically presents the cruel and violent nature of this very real problem; however, the writers manage to add a twist to the plot, as they do in most of the episodes. 
As the mystery surrounding a 

It's a spiritual community where handicapped people are in the center. L'Arche exists not to help the mentally handicapped get 'normal,' but to help them share their spiritual gifts with the world. 
Southern woman's bruises evolves, so too does a mystery surrounding Tibbs' childhood. When the episode ends, the woman comes to grips with the fact that her husband --and 
exists not to help the mentally handicapped get 'normal,' but to help them share their spiritual gifts with world." Nouwen's words echo those of Notre Dame sophomore Anna Wiese who recently completed a nine-week Summer Service Project at the Daybreak community. Said she of her project, "It gave me a better understanding of what the handicapped have to offer to society. They are not so much disabled as they are differently abled." 
One of the individuals accompanying Nouwen is Gregory Lannan, 34. After suffering a stroke at age five and living in an institution for mentally handicapped people in Canada, he moved to L'Arche ten years ago. Lannan now works for a grocery store and will present reflections on his life from the institution to L'Arche tonight. Friday afternoon, he will also make presentations to a small group of interested students and faculty for the Psychology Department and to Father Patrick Gaffney's anthropology course. 
"Most people don't realize what the handicapped are capable of," agrees Center for Social Concerns Director Father Don McNeill. He stresses that Nouwen's talk will interest anyone who has worked with the mentally handicapped, who has a mentally handicapped family member, or who wants to learn more about the developmentally disabled. "There is so much beauty to be found in those considered the least of our brothers and sisters. There is so much they can teach us." 
Tonight in Washington Hall, Nouwen and his companions will attempt to share that beauty, to transmit that passion, and to show Notre Dame another example of God's love and care in the community which they call home. 
Adding to the intense realism depicted on "In the Heat of the Night" are the characters. Chief Gillespie is a compassion­ate, caring gentleman who uses all the resources at hand -­even if it means dealing with criminals to catch other crimi­nals. Tibbs, on the other hand, is an urban family man. He cares deeply for his wife and children, but puts everything in the back of his mind when dealing with a case. 
A review of "Heat" wouldn't be complete without a comment on Carroll O'Connor. His pres­ence in the program is flawless. His Southern accent is quite believable. Fans of "All in the Family" will be amazed at O'Connor's switch of character. He's genuine and superb. 
NBC's "In the Heat of the Night" is a compelling program 
not herself--has the problem, of the highest quality. In the 
and Tibbs copes with the brutal heat of the night, there's ex­
murder of his sister many years citement. In the heat of the 
ago. It is precisely this creative night, there's energy. "In the 
plot-weaving that puts~ heat Heat of the Night," there's ex­
in "Night." cellence. 


page B The Observer Thursday, September 7, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS

Giamatti buried in private service 
Associated Press 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. -A. Bartlett Giamatti, major league baseball commissioner and a president of Yale, was laid to rest Wednesday after a private graveside service attended only by his family and closest friends. 
Burial was in the Grove Street Cemetery, traditional burial site for Yale presidents. Entrance to the cemetery was closely guarded during the service, and the gates were locked immedi­ately after the mourners left. 
At least 50 relatives and 
Baseball 
continued from page 12 
Langston yielded three runs 
and eight hits in six innings. 
The Expos took a quick 2-0 
lead against Randy Kramer. 
Tim Haines walked to start the 
bottom of the first, stole sec­
ond and third and, after 
Marquis Grissom also walked, 
scored on Andres Galarraga's 
groundout. Grissom scored on 
Brooks' single. 
Giants 7, Braves 2 
ATLANTA -Will Clark 
reached 100 RBis with a two­
run homer in the first inning 
and Scott Garrelts scattered 
eight hits. The Giants main­
tained their six-game lead over 
San Diego in the NL West. 
After Robby Thompson sin­gled with one out in the first, Clark hit his 22nd home run of the season off Derek Lilliquist. 
Rangers 3, Twins 2 
AHLINGTON, Texas 
Charlie Hough scattered seven 
hits over six innings to improve 
his record to 5-1 since coming 
off the disabled list on Aug. 4 
as the Texas Hangers beat the 
Minnesota Twins 3-2. 
Reds 9, Dodgers 5 
CINCINNATI -Barry Larkin tied the game with a two-run pinch single in the sixth inning and Joe Oliver's two-run double put Cincinnati ahead in the sev­enth. 
friends, including Yale President Benno C. Schmidt Jr. and Mayor Biagio DiLieto, at­tended the 25-minute service. The Rev. Harry B. Adams, the Yale chaplain, officiated. 
Giamatti, who was 51, died last Friday after suffering a heart attack at his summer home on Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts. He is survived by his wife, Toni, and three children, Marcus Bartlett, Paul Edward Valentine and Elena Walton Giamatti. 
The graveside service began about 11 :05 a.m., and less than a half hour later, two police-
Tigers 11, Royals 5 

DETROIT -Tiger Stadium, one of the great hitter's parks in baseball, looks like a grave­yard to the Kansas City Royals. 
The Royals lost their 13th consecutive game in Tiger Stadium as Detroit, combining homers by Mike Brumley and Lou Whitaker with three Royals errors, ran its winning streak to six with an 11-5 triumph Wednesday night. 
Indians 9, Orioles 0 

BALTIMORE -Bud Black pitched a four-hitter and his Cleveland teammates erupted for 15 hits, including home runs by Dion James, Cory Snyder and Brad Komminsk, en route to a 9-0 rout of the Baltimore Orioles. 
Yankees 5, Mariners 3 

SEATTLE -Mel Hall and Bob Geren each hit a two-run homer off Seattle starter Brian Holman in the seventh inning as the New York Yankees rallied for a 5-3 decision over the Seattle Mariners for their sev­enth straight victory. 
Padres 3, Astros 2 

HOUSTON -Calvin Schiraldi held Houston to one run and two hits over six innings in his first game with San Diego as the Padres moved into sole pos­session of second place in the NL West for the first time since May 5. The Padres have won six straight and 12 of 13 to drop the Astros into third place for the first time since June 6. 
men on motorcycles led a pro­cession of five cars carrying family members and relatives out of the cemetery. 
Mourners who left on foot declined to discuss the service. 
The burial coincided with the opening of classes at Yale, and many passing students wanted to know what was going on. There had been no announce­ment about the time or even the date of the funeral. 
The service was kept private at the request of the Giamatti family. A public memorial ser­vice is being planned, but no date has been set. 
Athletics 7, Red Sox 5 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Dave Parker hit his first American League grand slam and Bob Welch won his fifth consecutive decision as the Oakland Athletics beat the Boston Red Sox 7-5. 
Welch, 16-7, allowed five hits and two runs, one unearned, in five innings before leaving with a slight abdominal strain. He has allowed just four earned runs in his last 35 innings, an ERA of 1.03. 
Brewers 7, Angels 4 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Rookie George Canale, Robin Yount and Chris Speier homered as the Milwaukee Brewers beat California 7-4 Wednesday night and dealt another blow to the Angels' staggering pennant hopes. 
James paced the Indians' at­tack with three hits and three RBI, while Joe Carter had three hits and two RBI. Paul Zuvella had a career-high four hits, and three other Indians drove in runs against six Baltimore pitchers. 
Blue Jays 4, White Sox 2 
CHICAGO -Todd Stottlemyre pitched a six-hitter for seven innings, for his fifth straight win as the Blue Jays defeated the Chicago White Sox 4-2. 
The victory, coupled with Baltimore's 9-0 loss to Cleveland, boosted the front­running Blue Jays two games ahead of the Orioles in the American League East. 
A Family Tennis Clinic will be held by the ND varsity tennis programs to celebrate the Year of the Family. The clinic is open to staff and students of Notre Dame and their families, Saturday, Sept. 9, from 1-3 p.m. at the Courtney Courts (Eck Tennis Pavilion if rain). The clinic is free of charge and there will be instruction, competition and games. -The Observer 
Water Polo Club will hold a meeting for new and returning members at 9:30\ p.m. tonight in Montgomery Theatre. For more information, call x2457. -The Observer 
The Rowing Club will hold a meeting for novices at 
7:30 p.m. tonight in Cushing Auditorium. No experience is necessary. -The Observer 
A Tennis Mixer, held by the Irish varsity tennis teams, will be held Friday, Sept. 8, from 6-8 p.m. Students can sign up as individuals and will be paired with a varsity tennis player for the competition. All students are invited. Prizes and refreshments are available. Sign up at NVA before the event. -The Observer 
Lyons Volleyball Tournament scheduled for Saturday, Sept. 9, is still accepting entries. Call x2851 to enter a team. Teams must have six members with at least two girls. The entry fee is $9 per team. -The Observer 
Interhall football captain's meetings will be today in the football auditorium of the Joyce. The women's meeting begins at 4 p.m. followed by the men's at 4:30 p.m. Call NVA at 239-6100 for more information. -The Observer 
Varsity SoftbaJJ tryouts will be from 4 to 6 p.m. today and Friday, Sept. 6-7, at the softball field in front of the tennis pavilion. -The Observer 
SMC co-ed football captains will meet at 4 p.m. today in Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
Off-Campus football will hold its first practice at 4:30 
p.m. today on Stepan Field. Call 287-9849 for more infor­mation. -The Observer 
The student manager's organization, which serves the varsity athletic teams, will hold an organizational meeting at 8 p.m. tonight in the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC. Enter Gate 2. -The Observer 
The SMC basketball team will have a meeting for any interested players at 7 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 7, in the Angela Athletic Facility Lounge. -The Observer 
The SMC volleyball team will begin its season today at 7 p.m. by hosting Francis College at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
Men's Volleyball Club will have tryouts at 1 p.m. Sunday in the Joyce ACC pit. Call x2333 or x2093 for more 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 

Classifieds prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN Hi Ag
TIX! TIX! TIX! TIX! NEED: 2 USC GAs for Mom & Dad 

219-291-7153. STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH 
GA'S TO PUR PITI NAVY SMU PLEASE CALL: Pete x1716 OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR CHAMPS RESTAURANT NOW 
NOTICES 
AVAIL. NEED TIX TO USC. CALL Tom x3258 

NAVY GAME. CALL TIM, HIRING WAITRESSES. UP TO $5 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard JM 714-792-8919 DAY, 714-792-Thanks. 
FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143. HR.+ TIPS. APPLY AT 3421 W.
5859 EVE,

3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 SAMPLE AFTER 3:30PM. 
$$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS 714-675-8368 WKND. Need up to 4 Mich State. Good WE BUY AND SELL USED $$$offered. Kevin 1663.
FORSALE ] 
CYCLING CLUB!!!IIIIIII! 

NEED 2 USC & 2MICH ST. TIX
TEXTBOOKS !II!JJ!!Il!I!JJJJ $$$ WANTED: TIX FOR ANY CYCLING CLUB!!!!!!!!!!! 
PLEASE!!
COLOR TV RENTALS HOME GAME. WILL PAY I need two General Admission 
X1058
TYPING AVAILABLE. 13-INCH, $50/SEM. $80/YR; TOP $$$1! tickets for the MICHIGAN STATE The N 0 CYCLING CLUB 
287-4082.c 19·1NCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; $ CALL KRIS #4340 $ game. Please call Mike at 1694. WANTED· "10" PITI-NOTRE is currently planning rides for fun, 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR fitness, and sport. Don't be left
DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SAT. 10/28/89. PLEASE CALL PAT 
CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE CALIFORNIA LAWYER NEEDS ROLLING STONES TICKETS I!! 
behind!! 

DELIVERY 1·4 GENERAL ADM. TICKETS!!!! 4 tix for sale for the Sat., Sept. 9 COLLECT AT (412) 372-3000. 
Call DARREN BUCK at #3472 

COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272· PLEASE CALL AMBER x2529!!!! concert at Alpine Valley, WI (45 
for info on upcoming activities and 

5959 minutes north of Chicago). Call Pat 
meetings.

LOST/FOUND 
If you're not gonna' buy your (x1159) or Kevin (x1 023).NEEDED:
1980 Triumph TR7 football Gears.
LOST HEWLETI PACKARD USC General Admission tickets!!! 
CONVERTIBLE tickets, I will, Call Dan at 288-5448 9/17 1:35pm $65 Call 289-6412. CALCULATOR MONDAY Will trade Mich St., Pitt, Navy, TREKKIE 
Looks and runs great. Must sell, 

AUGUST 28 BETWEEN LIBRARY SMU, Purdue, and even MIAMI!!! NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STU TIX FOR 
plates expire soon! $2900 CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable 
AND PARKING LOT. CALL 239· Please call 283-3571 MICH GAME CALL DIANE-2702 
Call Dan 239-7666 atmosphere, daily & weekly7308 NANCY. 
PERSONALS specials, pool table, English darts, MEN'S UNIVEGA 12 SPD. and great company. 234-3541
Found: Ladies watch in D1. found NEED 4 GA & 2 STU TIX FOR ­
NEED 4 GAs AND 1 STU FOR SITIER NEEDED, PART TIME, at 4:00PM. Call Brian at 1217 to MOUNTAIN BIKE. 2 MOS. OLD. 
PITI GAME. HAVE 1 USC GAME MICH ST. WILL PAY$$$! x2966 KNOLL WOOD AREA, PREFER claim. TIK TO SELL OR EXCHANGE. YOU HAVE OWN 287-2440. OFFER. 
How're you going to do it? 
I REALLY NEED 2 MICHIGAN 

CALL SARAH 2930. TRANSPORTATION. CALL 277­
STATE GA'S. CALLBETH AT 8380. 
...when you need color? 
X4852.

Yo Dutch, you got some Pitt tickets (GA's) for me? I need 4. Pick up ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE Anyone who wants to see the
NEED 2 TIX TO NO-MICH. ST. 

~~--~--m~l f___nc_K_a_s~l the phone, dial 3117 and ask for OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS sold out ROLLING STONES
$$CALL #1899

Steve Curtis. You will be assigned COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A last Chicago concert, 9/11 , I have 
FURNISHED APT.·LIKE ROOM, a code# and you will not CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: 5 tix. Call Mick at 289-5605.
WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN,4 AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. N.ORTH NAVY, POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY
be asked your name. Pitt sucks. NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. ST
CAMPUS. 272·0615. 4 SMU TICKETS FOR USC OR RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. Top 2+2 reasons why Debbie
PLEASE!! I!!! MY UTILE SIS IS 

PITI. should not drink:
COMING OUT + PARENTS WILL 

$$$$$$$$$$$$~$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Campus Hard Rock band seeks 
2 Bdrm HOME on ND ave.272-PH. 419-4335334 EVENINGS. 4. 2 avoid giving her 2 cents to the
DESPERATELY NEEDED -KILL ME IF SHE DOES'NT GO. 
bassist. Experience a must. Call

6306 2 RA's
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE 

MICHIGAN STATE TIXII!! Glenn at X3064 or Vu at Xl809. 
HAVE (2) GA TIX PITI & PENN 3. Rape Road is 2 far away to be
NEED 3 STUDENT TIX AND 4 TIX! CALL MATI #3489 
APT. UTILITIES PAID GOOD ST. NEED (2) GA USC. BILL (617) carried home by 2 people.
GA'S. RIDE NEEDED: Columbus OH 
NEIGHBORHOOD MALE 328-6898. 2. Her 2 nurses live on floor 2.
BIG MONEY BIG MONEY!! I! NEED UP TO 6 USC TICKETS. leave 9/8 return 9/10, will help pay 
PREFERRED 288-0955 1. Her roomates were 2 drunk to
CALL JON PAUL AT X1603 MONEY IS NO PROBLEM. CALL Please call: Laura 284-4322 operate the 2 sPeed wheelchair. 
JIM AT X1236.

$$$$$$$~~~!~~~~!~~~~~~~$$$ 

Thursday, September 7, 1989 The Observer page 9 
Becker displays dominating form in victory over Noah ­
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Boris Becker, beginning to look as dominant at the U.S. Open as he has at Wimbledon, surged into the semifinals with a 6-3, 6-3, 6-2 victory over Yannick Noah Wednesday night. 
The three-time Wimbledon champion qualified for the Open semis for the second time 
Notre Dame Communication~ncj Th_eatre 

SPACE .CLOS~T
:___ MAID

ALTERNATIVES 
11 ,gtuaentJ -Ot:tani]• lfou't ,gtot:a1• ,gpace!" 
• 
INDIVIDUAL OR STACKING BASKET SYSTEMS 

• 
FREE STANDING MODULAR STORAGE SYSTEMS 

• 
ACCESSORIES FREE STANDING SHOE RACKS TIE & BELT RACKS 



SHOW STUDENTID FOR DISCOUNT! 

4609 GRAPE RD. JMS PlAZA 
Mishawaka, IN 
DIRECTLY SOUTH Of RYAN'S STEAK HOUSE 
272-5404 
.. 
OFFICEOF TAKE SOME TIME
0MPUS 
MINISTRY TO ENRICH 
YOIJR MARRIAGE THIS YEAR 
The Office..,.= ~aP-'; "' ~ lVJinistry, in conjunction with the Notre Dame Year of the Family, 1~ off~~ing a Marriage Enrichment Program this semester. 
This 2-part program involves the married couple taking the ENRICH Marriage Inventory, (a 125 item questionndre), followed by a structured discussion session for each couple to process their answers. 
PRE-REGISTRATION is required by Monday, Sept. 11th. More detailed information about this program is available. If interested, call Campus Ministry at 239-5242 for a brochure. 
-he also got there in 1986 ­and he ended Noah's string of five-set victories and surprising success at Flushing Meadow. 
Just a week ago, Becker was headed out of the tournament he has never come close to win­ning. He was down two match points in the second round to Derrick Rostagno. But, with great help from a net cord, the second seed rallied and has gotten stronger since. 

For Noah, once ranked fourth in the world and now 23rd, it was a prime-time dis­appointment. The Frenchman had overcome a two-set deficit to beat Amos Mansdorf in a bitter third-round match. Then he outlasted No. 10 Alberto Mancini in another emotional match. 
But he had nothing left for Becker and once again failed to make a Grand Slam semifinal; Noah hasn't gotten to the final four of a major tournament since his French Open title in 1983. ­
On the women's side, Steffi Graf and Gabriela Sabatini, last year's finalists, took different routes into the semifinals. 
Graf, the top seed and defending champion, needed only 44 minutes to rout No. 8 Helena Sukova, 6-1, 6-1. It was the 11th straight victory over Sukova for Graf, winner of six 
of the l-ast  seven  Grand Slam  
events.  
Sabatini,  seeded  third,  and  

Arantxa Sanchez Vicario went more than 44 minutes in the first set alone. The baseliners played extended points throughout their 2-hour, 17­minute match, won by Sabatini 3-6, 6-4, 6-1. 
Graf and Sabatini, who are doubles partners and have reached the semifinals here, will meet in Friday's semifinals. No. 2 Martina Navratilova and 


first meeting at 7:00PM Thursday, September 7 
217 l 8\1\JiS Hall 
call Jim or Jamie at 271-0456, Sea.n at x-Jl.997 

Returning members of the 
Undergraduate Schools Commi 
ng, 
ADWORKS 

her conqueror in last year's Open, No. 5 Zina Garrison, are in the other. Garrison ended Chris Evert's Grand Slam ca­reer on Tuesday. 
In a men's quarterfinal, No. 11 Jay Berger retired with se­vere leg cramps in the fourth set against No. 14 Aaron Krickstein. Berger won the first set 6-3, lost the second 6-4 and was trailing 3-2 in the third set when the cramps hit. 
He let three of Krickstein's 
serves go by in that game, 
served underhanded in the sev­
enth game to fall behind 5-2, 
then sat in his courtside chair 
during the break, drinking. 
Berger limped back onto the 
court, carrying a water bottle. 
Falcons close to agreement with Sanders 
Associated Press 
SUWANEE, Ga. -Deion Sanders said goodbye to the New York Yankees Wednesday night and apparently headed for the Atlanta Falcons with whom he reached a tentative contract agreement earlier in the evening. 
The Falcons announced the 
agreement with the defensive 
back from Florida State, their 
No. 1 draft choice and the 
NFL's fifth overall, just as the 
Yankees were starting their 
game in Seattle with Sanders as 
the left fielder. 
Falcons spokesman Charlie Taylor said Sanders' agent was trying to reach the athlete and that the team wanted him in training camp Thursday to take his physical and begin practice. 
After striking out in the sixth 
inning, Sanders went down the 
Yankees dugout shaking hands 
and then was seen heading for 
the locker room carrying two 
bats and his glove. Luis Polonia 
replaced Sanders in left in the 
bottom of the inning. 
There are two late evening flights from Seattle to Atlanta. 
Taylor said the agreement came about 10 p.m. EDT after eight hours of negotiations in Suwanee between team finan­cial officer Jim Hay and Sanders' agent, Steve Zucker. 
No contract details were re­leased. 



page 10 The Observer Thursday, September 7, 1989 
-
NC State receives NCAA report 
Ticket Sale Information 


Many of the Soviets had much The Irish also took an eye­to learn about life in the States. opening 14-hour train ride
Wrestle 
"They thought some of our from Minsk to Leningrad. 
continued from page 12 movies like The Terminator "We got to go through the played a brand of sportsman-and Rambo and other fictional country areas and saw some of ship that the Irish never could things had really happened over the poverty there," said have imagined. here," said Weaver. Radenbaugh. "In the cities, they 
"Everybody's seen Rocky IV, The Irish also were able to made sure to show us the good and all these people blood-see plenty of the Soviet Union. parts, but they couldn't really thirsty for Americans," said Tours included visits to Red hide anything on the train." Hadenbaugh. "It was a 180-de-Square, a Russian opera and There wasn't time for too gree difference. We were broth-the Hermitage -the largest much touring, as the Soviet ers in wrestling, and everyone palace in Leningrad and now an hosts kept the team's schedule was in good spirits." art museum. busy throughout the trip. 
In faet, many people from the "They had a whole room full host cities seemed almost a lit-of Van Goghs," said McCann. "I was impressed because it tie too jovial. Wherever the "They claim if you spent one was so organized," said Irish went, they ran into Soviets minute at each exhibit there it McCann. "Every moment was wanting to exchang!1 items would take you seven years to taken. We couldn't have asked from their home countries. The see it all." for anything better." 
Sophomores: Today Freshmen: Sept. 8 Sales begin at 1 :30 p.m. 
The Observer 
Sophomores, grad students and law students may purchase football tickets today beginning at 1 :30 p.m. The sale will end Friday when freshmen may buy their season passes. Blue-Gold cards may be purchased for $1 0 when buying football tickets. 
[L@~@ [fli(ill[TI)@ 
©~@[TI) [K)@(ill@@ 

wrestlers all returned to the ...----------------------• 
United States in late May with 
* * Mechanical Engineers * * 
the customary Soviet fur hats 
A. S. M. E.
in their suitcases. "They were bananas over blue 
Join the Nationwide Society of 
jeans, T-shirts and shoes," said 
Mechanical Engineers 
sophomore heavyweight Chuck Weav!1r. 
New and Old Members Welcome! First meeting: 
Although only the Soviets' knowledge of English was lim­ited, the Irish did get to talk to 
TONIGHT! 
them about their native coun­
THURSDAY, SEPT. 7, 7:00 PM 
try. "The ones who could speak a 
RM. 356 FITZPATRIC HALL 
little English all wanted to 
FREE REFRESHMENTS
learn about the United States," said McCann. "They all wanted to come over here. They talked -Plant Tours-Weekend Trips -Social Functions/Parties about how they liked America, -Job Placement -A.S. M. E. Publicationsand you could tell it wasn't -Get Involved and build Your Resume ­phony." 
September 7th 11 a.m. -3p.m. "'Come See What We Got" 
Free Pool Free Videos from 1 -2p.m. "Hoops" Contest Lots of Giveaways 
STUDENT ORGANIZATION INFO AND MUCH MUCH MORE 
Magic by Kevin Wilson Clowning by Lester 



Associated Press 
HALEIGII, N.C.-The NCAA's preliminary report on possible rules violations in the North Carolina State basketball pro­gram contains serious allega­tions but does not support elaims of drug abuse or grade changing, the school's ehancel­lor said Wednesday. 
The report, released to re­porters with the names of play­ers blacked out, focuses on claims that players sold com­plimentary basketball tickets and athletic shoes, received dis­counts not available to other students and accepted free food and lodging from athletic boosters. 
!lead basketball coach Jim Valvano said he did not know players were selling tickets and shoes, but said he could under­stand why they would. 
"If you don't have any money 
00. 

and you only get room, board. books, tuition and fees, what do you do? How do you
oo. 

go home for the holidays? How do you buy a birthday present? 
000 

So when someone said 'Why . would a kid sell a ticket?' I as­
sume the answer is -for the money," Valvano said. "Now does that make it right? I didn't say that, no. It's a viola­tion. 
000" 
Valvano said he was ready to suffer any penalties the NCAA handed down. 
The university will now try to follow up on the claims before going before the NCAA's Committee on Infractions. 
"I want to assure you we are taking these as very serious matters," Chancellor Bruce Poulton said at a news confer­ence. 

-----·~--------~-----------­
Thursday, September 7, 1989 The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
The ND-SMC Equestrian Club will meet at 8 p.m. tonight in room 22 at the Notre Dame library. -The Observer 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Thursday 
4pm 
"Brazilian Politics: Sixty Days before the Election." Elio Gaspari, Camoes Center for Portuguese Speaking World, Col~mbia University. 131 Decio. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. 
4:30pm 
"Estimate of the lower bound of the Levi form and its ap­plications." Zhihua Chen, Jiao Tong University. Room 226 Computer-Math Building. Sponsored by the Department of Mathematics. 
8 p.m. 
"An evening with Henri Nouwen and the L'Arche commu­nity: Experiencing God's love in care and community." Washington Hall. Sponsored by the Year of the Family. 
Divine Freedom and Human Freedom in the Context of Creation--an Interfaith Colloquium. (All sessions will be held in the auditorium of the Continuing Education Center) 
8 pm "The Freedom of Creatures of a Free Creator" 
MENUS 
Chicken Mozzarella Baked Sole with Dressing Cheese Enchiladas Hot Meatloaf Sandwich 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Dallas inst. 27 Religious school 
1 Cole accom­paniment 30 Privately 
5 Prunes financed US satellite

9 Chevalier vehicle 32 Upright 13 Secretary's error 34 Ireland, to a Gael 14--New 35 American Guinea foreign policy re 15 Town inS France 
business interests

16 Saudi Arabian prov1nce 41 Yours, to P1erre 17 Change for the 42 "Vice" mecca on better TV 18 Allege as a fact 43 Tropical birds 19 Small-t1me 47 Arise 
22 Massage 51 Twilight time, to 23 Part of a door Tennyson 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

52 Costly 54 Word on a Czech's check 55 Refused to be clement 
59 Caesar's road 
61 Opening 
62 Jot 
63 --nostrum 
64 N. Y island 
65 Aromatic herb of the Bible 66 Kisser 67 Colored 68 Honshu city 
DOWN 
1 Former infielder, called The Brat 2 Important amino 
acid 3 Pinnacles 4 He sleeps with 
his briefcase 5 Tibetan priest 6 Unclogs 


COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOABE$ 
n.lE ITf!..Rlf.SS SPACEMf!..~ 
IS BEING P\JR'SU@ ACS<.C/55 T\\E Gfl..LJ:>.)('i B'{ t>R£J:>.I)El> 
~u~ Bt:lt-.IGS' 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1\\HR.£ GM-l\~G! SPII=FS OOli Cl-\f>.NCE: lb LOSt 1\.\EM 
IS TCl Rt=.LE:As£ A GIANI 
'St<\0~ CLOOD 13£1-\\l{t> 11\S 
S~q.CRfl..F\ .' OJR 1-\E~ 
n.I~WS 11-\E LEIJER! 
7 Hindu savant 
aImpose a burden 9 One of the 
Marianas 10 Official Soviet 
newspaper 11 Turn right 12 Medii. country 14 Joey, e.g. 20 Suburb of 
Minneapolis 21 Not in the pink 25 Grape residue 26 Nobelist in 

1-\H\ 1-181 ... J\JSI U\-\, CLAPPING 11\E ERASERS,1-1m 1-lE\-\ ... (COV~\1)  BILL WATIERSON  
•,), ©1989 Un1versa1· Press Synd1cale  
BILL WATTERSON  

Chemistry: 1934 28 Sight, in Sevilla 29 Connective 31 Embryo cleric 33 Darken 35 Point in time 36 Nebraska Indian 37 Indolent ones 
38 Key lime, e.g. 390nthe­(gangland phrase) 40 City on the 
Missouri 44 Gram. form 45 Lack1ng 46 In a rational 
manner 48 Part of Hamburg 49 Waver 50 Printers' 
mistakes 53 Whiteoak 56 Father of 
Hippolyte 57 A pound, in 
Soho 58 Earlydos 59 Little devil so Greek letter 
THE FAR· SIDE GARY LARSON 



In the days before television 

SCUMMt£1( C.919vfP SYlf!'CU1(tJJYl'Y 
12:00-5:00 Around St. Joe's Lake Tie-dying...arts and crafts.••canoeing•..smores... 





Sports
page 12 Thursday, September 7, 1989 
ND soccer works overtime to edge MCC foe Detroit 
Steve Belles fires a pass during the 1988 Blue-Gold Game in Notre Dame Stadium. Belles has added to his impressive Irish resume after starting at flanker against Virginia. 
Belles adds to football resume 

By KEN TVSIAC Sports Writer 
Freshman Kevin Pendergast's goal exactly 10 minutes into overtime Wednesday afternoon allowed the Notre Dame men's soccer team to escape the the James K. Campbell Athletic Complex at the University of Detroit with a 4-3 victory in a Midwestern Collegiate Conferenc!1 contest. 
Stormy conditions caused problems for the Irish, who blew a 3-1 halftime lead when Detroit freshman Pancho 
ND wrestlers benefit from Soviet Union trip 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
It started out simply enough. 
A group of members from the Notre Dame wrestling team, touring the Soviet Union last summer. went outside with a bat and ball while staying at an Olympic training center in the eity of Minsk. 
The next thing they knew, they were introducing a large contingent of Soviet athletes to the game of softball. 
"We started playing, and all the Hussian kids started watching," Irish coach Fran McCann wrote in a journal he kept during the trip. "One by om1, they started to play until we had a bunch. It was like 
Good Morning Vietnam." 
That eventually led to a game between the Soviets and the Fighting Irish, who began their 10-day tour on May 22. the day after seniors Pat Boyd, Jerry Durson and Chris Geneser graduated. This game had quite a few moments of high comedy. 
"They were doing things we wouldn't even think of," said senior 118-pounder Andy Radenbaugh. "There were these shot putters there, and all they wanted to do was hit the ball. They'd just hit it, then sit there, laugh and watch the ball. They would forget to run." 
While that game lacked a lit­tle in the way of competion, Notre Dame's exhibition 
Cubs lose to Phillies; Cardinals gain ground 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPHIA -Bruce Ruffin scattered eight hits for his first complete game since May 8 of last year and Darren Daulton and Dickie Thon each drove in three runs as the last­place Philadelphia Phillies beat
-the first-place Chicago Cubs 9-1 Wednesday night. The Cubs' lead over St. Louis in the National League East was sliced to one-half game when the Cardinals beat the New York Mets. Huffin, who is making a
-gradual comeback after a wild streak that almost ended his career, walked three and struck out four. Meanwhile, the Phillies rapped out 17 hits against Greg Maddux, 16-11, and three relievers. 
Cardinals 3, Mets 2 NEW YORK Pedro 
Guerrero drove in the tying and 
winning runs and the Cardinals 
took advantage of two New 
York errors for their 16th vic­
tory in 23 games. 

With the score tied 2-2, Mets 
second baseman Gregg 
Jefferies muffed Ozzie Smith's 
grounder to start the eighth in­
ning. Smith went to third on 
Jose Oquendo's hit-and-run 
single and scored on Guerrero's 
grounder. Guerrero also dou­
bled home the tying run with 
two out in the sixth. 
Expos 11, Pirates 6 

MONTREAL -Hubie Brooks drove in four runs with a first­inning single and a three-run homer in the second. The out­burst enabled Mark Langston to snap a personal three-game losing streak am: '.'.';i, f:;r the first time since Aug. 11. 
see BASEBALL' page 8 
Victory boosts Irish to 1-2 in young season 
Koneval scored at the 67:36 mark. Pendergast's overtime heroics allowed the Irish to notch their first victory of the season. 
Notre Dame coach Dennis Grace was glad to notch the 1OOth victory of his collegiate career, but was not too pleased with his team's performance. 
"It's a win. I'll take it," Grace said, "But we were lucky to come out on top. I was disap­pointed with the three goals we 
wrestling matches with Soviet club teams turned out much closer than McCann ever could have hoped. Notre Dame was the first collegiate wrestling team to make a competitive tour of the Soviet Union. 
"We were going over there just trying to be competitive and not be embarrassed," said McCann. "As it turned out, we easily could have won every match." 
The Notre Dame team, which finished 21st in the nation last year. had to com pete in freestyle wresting in the Soviet Union. The freestyle method differs somewhat from the col­legiate style the Fighting Irish practice in the States. 
Notre Dame still won one of four matches, coming within striking distance in each of the losses. 
The Irish lost 7-5 in two matches at Moscow, won 6-5 at Minsk and lost 8-4 to Leningrad, the fourth best club team in the Soviet Union. Pat Boyd, an All-American last spring at Notre Dame, went through the tour undefeated. 
"They were in season at the time too," said McCann, whose Notre Dame team had closed its season in March. "You'd figure that they'd be so much better conditioned than us, but it wasn't the case." 
The Soviet wrestlers also dis-
see WRESTLE I page 1 0 
gave up. We were simply unable performance on the weather to mark up and play team de­conditions," said Grace, "I fense." don't think the team would ei­
The Irish played well in the ther." first half. Junior Steve LaVigne On paper, it appears as scored Notre Dame's first goal though the Irish dominated the of the season to stake the Irish game, as they outshot the out to an early 1-0 lead. Before Titans 27-16 and attempted 16 the half was over. LaVigne had corner kicks compared to tallied again, as had freshman Detroit's 9. But Detroit man­Jeff Rhodes. aged to tie the game up in the 
But Notre Dame defensive second half despite being out­letdowns cost the Irish in the played, and the Irish were in semnd half. "I can't blame our desperate need of a savior. 
It didn't take long for Pendergast to come to the res­cue. Although he is the smallest member of tho team at 5'8" and 145 pounds, Kevin possesses the skills coach Grace has boen looking for on the front line. 
His first collegiate goal, on an assist from Mitch Kern, was a big one for the Irish. The men in blue and gold had to endure an intense thunderstorm on the way home, but if it hadn't been for the heroics of a 5'8" fresh­man from Simsbury, Connecticut, the bus ride home might have been a lot stormier. 

After toiling for four seasons as a backup quarterback, Steve Belles finally got his first start last week -at flanker. 
Actually, that start wasn't any great cause for celebration. He earned the starting role after Raghib Ismail had missed two days of practice with bruised toes. and left soon afterward to watch the Rocket put on a vir­tuoso performance (five catches for 121 yards) against an outmanned Virginia sec­ondary. 
"Rocket's our money man." said Belles. "If we're going uptown, we're going with him." 
Nonetheless, the new position allowed Belles, who has earned respect from Irish coaches and fans for his versatility, to add to his ever-growing resume. 
Upon arriving at Notre Dame from Phoenix (Ariz.) St. Mary's, where he quarter­backed the Knights to a state championship in 1984, Belles spent all his time on the side­lines backing up Steve Beuerlein and Terry Andrysiak at quarterback. 
Belles, the second leading passer in Arizona high school history, never has spent much time quarterbacking at Notre Dame, with a career total of three completions in seven attempts for 111 yards. two touchdowns and an interception. 
But over the last three years, the fifth-year senior has done everything possible to add to the Irish fortunes. He became a rarity among collegiate quarterbacks by contributing on special teams, and he has gained 143 yards on 38 career carries during his occasional turns at tailback. 
He even combined the two talents last sea­son against Air Force, lining up at tailback and taking a pitch from quarterback Tony Rice, then throwing a 50-yard touchdown bomb to Ricky Watters. 
The former high school free safety has even helped out on defense, making a tackle for a loss of one yard against Miami last season when the Hurricanes attempted to fake a punt. 
In his Fiesta Bowl homecoming, he gained 
Steve Megargee 
Football Notebook 
10 yards on three carries as the Irish won a national championship in his hometown. 
Now. with four years of experience and an economics degree in hand, Notre Dame's resident nomad may have finally found a po­sition he can call his own. 
With the Irish suffering from a lack of depth at the wideout positions and the emer­gence of freshman quarterbacks Riek Mirer and Jake Kelchner, Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz moved Belles to flanker two weeks be­fore the Kickoff Classic. 
"It's a lot more tiring here," said Belles. ''I've got to block instead of shying away. I've lost like eight pounds." 
The switch, to a position Belles has never played. probably spells the end for his days at quarterback and tailback. 
"It's fun," Belles said of his new position. "Instead of being more finesse and just knowing the situation, I had a chance to hit somebody. I really don't have any troubles catching the ball." 
Belles says he has received several tips from Notre Dame's starting receivers ­Ismail and split end Pat Eilers. Belles is listed as the number-two flanker with sophomore Tony Smith the second-team split end. 
Although he knows he needs some work at his new position, particularly in blocking, Belles is confident of succeeding at 11anker. From his years at quarterback, he knows what he likes in receivers. 
"If you know somebody can catch the ball well, you feel confident that if you throw it to them, they'll do the job," Belles said. "I know that as a quarterback. Tony (Rice) said he liked throwing to me, and that's all that mat­ters." 




