Spring break-3
IACCENT: Costello, Orbison album reviews Cloudy and not as cold today with a chance of light snow. 
Highs in the lower 30s. Cloudy and cold tonight with a
J VIEWPOINT: Grad student raise debate 
char.ce of snow showers. 


VOL. XXII, NO. 96 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1989 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Breslin, Rask to compete in run-off election 
District One Senate race also in Wednesday vote 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Staff Reporter 
Failure of a candidate to receive more than 50 percent of the votes in Monday's campus wide election has forced a run-off election for stu­dent body president and vice president and District One stu­dent senator. 
The run-off election, which will be held Wednesday, will be between the student body pres­ident/vice presidential tickets of Matt Breslin and Dave Kinkopf, and Tom Rask and Melissa Smith. 
In the District One Student Senate run-off, Scott Murray will face Chris Frigon. 
"Obviously we were happy we were able to get so many votes, but it would have been nice to have it all over with tonight," said Breslin who, with Kinkopf received 1,845 votes or 49.72 percent of the vote total. 
"We're very pleased, we're very excited to be in it this far,'' said Rask. He and Smith 
received 781 votes or 21.05 per­
cent of the vote total. 
In the District One Senate race, Frigon received 407 votes or 43.72 percent of the total vote. Murray received 302 votes or 32.44 percent. 
"Going into the race with · three candidates, the probabil­ity of a run-off was high," said Frigon. "I was encouraged by the voter turnout and the amount of votes that I received," he said. 
Murray said his "initial re­action was to get out there and get some posters out." 
A third candidate, Jim Nelis received 222 votes or 23.85 per­cent, but failed to win enough votes to include him in the run­off. 
In the District Two Senate race, Michael Gaffney defeated Megan Hines by a margin of 436 to 344 votes or 
55.9 percent to 44.1 percent. In District Four, Sigi Loy a 
see RUN-OFF, page 3 
Tlle OblerwrI Don Pan 

Kristen Mole, Michelle Tambor and Jay Wasinda count election ballots Monday night at the student government office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. The run off is scheduled for Wednesday. 
ELECTION RESULTS 
Student Body President/Vice President 
Rask!Smith 
Breslln/Kinkopf 
McTamaney /Russell Fahey 


% 10 20 30 40 50 
Student Senate District 1 District 4 
Scott Murray 32.4% Sean Scanlon 
40.2% Jim Nelis 23.9% Slgi Loya 59.2o/o 
Chris Frigon 
43.7% District 3 
Dan Hoag 
District 2 

(no opponent) 
Megan Hines 44.1% District 5 John Krotzer Mike Gaffney 55.9% (no opponent) 
Source: Ombudsman Observer Graphic 

Problems with Fisher voting procedure 

By MARK MCLAUGHLIN Senior Staff Reporter 
A lack of regular student election proceedings at Fisher Hall may have played a part in the subsequent runoff election for student body president. 
Voting was not opened in Fis­her at all on Monday, forcing Ombudsman Rules Committee chairman Pat Stadter to start a door-to-door vote drive on Monday night. The regular voting did not take place be­cause of "miscommunica­tion," according to hall Judicial Board chairman Mike Stein­lage. 
"(Matt) Breslin and (Tom) Rask were about even in Fis­her," Stadter said. He added that no one could be sure whe­
see FISHER, page 6 


Tony Brooks arrested for Sunday hit-and-run accident 
Observer Staff Report 
Sophomore tailback Tony Brooks, the second-leading rus­her on the national champion Fighting Irish football team, was arrested and ticketed for a hit-and-run accident and driving with a suspended license, South Bend police said Monday. 
No one was injured in the ac­cident, which occurred Sunday at 3:18a.m. when a car driven by a South Bend man was sides­wiped as a car ahead of him attempted a U-turn, police said. 
The auto struck the right side of a car driven by Kevin Cole­man, 39, and fled the scene. Coleman reported the car's description and a partial Indiana license plate number, police said. 
South Bend police inves­tigated a damaged car on the Notre Dame campus Sunday morning matching the descrip­tion after a Security officer re­ported it, Director of Security Rex Rakow said. 
"They came out to look at the car, and evidently Tony was cleaning out some stuff in it, and he admitted then being in­volved in an accident," said Rakow. 
The accident occurred in front of Memorial Hospital, where teammate Michael Stonebreaker is recovering from a Saturday accident when his car struck a sign pole. 
Brooks, 19, of Tulsa, Okla., was arrested on campus about nine hours after the accident was reported, said South Bend police Lt. Larry Bloom. 
He was released on the spot, and the arrest report was for­warded to the St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes, police said. Barnes said he has not seen the report. 
Police Spokesman Sgt. Jeff Korros could not be reached for comment on what penalties the 
see BROOKS, page 4 

Stonebreaker case forwarded to prosecutor, decision by Wednesday 
Associated Press 
The investigation report into a car accident involving Notre Dame linebacker Michael Stonebreaker was forwarded Monday to the county prosecu­tor, who may decide within 48 hours whether to file charges, police said. 
Stonebreaker, 22, of River Ridge, La., and a passenger in his car1 Ursula Garzia, 20, of Foxboro, Mass., were injured early Saturday when Stonebreaker's car left the road less than a mile north of campus and struck a sign pole on Route 33. 
Stonebreaker, an All-America selection on the na­tional championship Notre Dame football team, was in fair condition Monday at Memorial Hospital with a broken right knee and dislocated right hip. Garzia remained in serious condition with internal injur­ies. No other details were released. 
Tests showed Stonebreaker had a blood-alcohol level of .157 percent after the accident. In­diana's legal intoxication level is .10 percent. 
The test results and accident report were given to St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes, said Cpl. Charles Feir­rell of the county sheriff's of­fice. 
Barnes could decide by Wed­nesday how to handle the case, 
see CASE, page 4 page 2 The Observer Tuesday, February 28, 1989 


INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 

Good things come in threes at Rocky Haven Farm, in Clear Spring, Md. where triplet brothers Donald, Robert and John Smith acted like proud papas after their 1,300­pound Holstein named Candy gave birth to triplet calves. 
David Burrows, the brothers' veterinarian, said cows give birth to triplets about one in every 50,000 births. Bur­rows said he usually sees at least one set of triplet cows a year-none owned by triplet farmers. -Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 

my inability to find my room keys and I.D. I hastily concluded that my roommate, in a

The Scholastic Football Issue is available for 
devious plot to destroy my sanity, had hiddengraduate students in the Graduate Student Union office them from me or else had stolen them because at Room 307, LaFortune Student Center during office he couldn't find his own. I couldn't have
hours. -The Observer 

"misplaced" "mislaid" or even "lost" them. I am a college student--! would never do some­
The ND Preprofessional Society is sponsoring a 
thing so stupid, so mindless, so inconsistent with discussion with oncologist Dr. Ronald Sapiente on the fu­all of my other actions. . . or at least so Iture of cancer research and cancer in the medical profes­thought.
sion today at 7 p.m. in the Siegfried Hall meeting room. 
So I raged and bitched and proceeded to tear
-The Observer 

apart my room, until in the thralls of a pas­sionate fit, I caught my pocket on my well­Father Edmund Joyce, executive vice president constructed loft. To my dismay, and my room­emeritus of the University, is the special guest of ISSUES mate's delight, the keys tumbled out of my'89 today at 9 p.m. on WVFI. -The Observer ripped pocket onto the floor fell with a mocking clang.
A $25 prize will be awarded for the best T -shirt design But instead of being upset or enraged withfor Amnesty International. Entries must be submitted to my own stupidity, I experienced a revelationRoom 325 Knott Hall by March 17. For more information, of sorts. Suddenly I began to see a pattern in
call 283-4969. -The Observer 

my behavior. I began to reflect over the other "misfor­
For all interested in class office, a mandatory 
tunes" in my life and realized that there wasmeeting for prospective candidates on March 2 in the a clear and distinct pattern to my irrationalMontgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. -The actions.
Observer 

For instance there was the time last Friday, when I went to the end of the earth (read Mil­But once again, some mysterious force
The Theology Department announces the addition 
ford, Indiana) for a field trip at 5 a.m. I had seemed to draw me to act unreasonably andin the summer session of a second course at the level of been up all Thursday night working at The Ob­procrastinate. The week before the paper wassecond theology requirement, Theo 260--Christian Ethics, server and was expected to meet my parents due, I was doing everything but my philosophy with Leslie Griffin, 9:10-10:10 a.m. MTWTF. For more at the Morris Inn at 6 p.m. Now any rational paper from hell. I decided it was time to get in information, contact the Theology Department office at soul would have skipped the field trip to the end shape and so spent my afternoons grunting and 
239-7811. -The Observer 

of the earth and gone home to bed. However, I sweating and grunting at the Rock and myobviously was not a rational soul at this point evenings revelling at the Commons. 
Michael Harrington will be the guest at a Brown Bag in the morning. So when my friend Tim offered Well about 9:00 the night before the paperLunch at noon Wednesday. Harrington is presently co­·me half of a bottle of Stolis' vodka en route to was due, I had yet to start writing my paper.
chairman of the Democratic Socialists of America and Milford, I was only too happy to help him finish Of course, I didn't begin writing until midnight author of numerous books and articles including "The it. and ended up pulling an all nighter. The paper Other America (1963)." Call239-6974 for more information. 
Needless to say, I was still reeling from my was turned in on time, but I was once again
-The Observer 

vodka punch at 5:50 that evening--ten minutes bewildered and furious with my inability to ac­before my parents were to arrive for the much complish my goal. 
Marjorie Zolkoski, a 1988 graduate of the University, anticipated JPW weekend. I then realized that I had an evil twin named will be recruiting for the Christian Appalachian Project, Of course I was cursing my luck and anything Jon Blon Jazi. This evil twin assumed my iden an interdenominational service agency in eastern Ken­else I could think of at that moment when I tity and was making my life a living hell. Hetucky. Short-term and long-term volunteers are welcome. 
realilzed my own "lack of foresight." hid my keys in my pocket, and worked out atShe will be in the Hesburgh Library concourse today from Then a more recent example flashed before the Rock and drank beer at the Commons9 a.m.-1 p.m. and in the Center for Social Concerns from my eyes. About two weeks ago one of my more during the week before my paper was due.
1-5 p.m. -The Observer 

demanding professors assigned us THE paper In fact, all of my "misfortunes" and mistakes from Hell. It was, of course, a philosophy paper. could be attributed to my evil twin Blon Jazi. 
C.O.O.L. (Campus Outreach Opportunity League), a Now my initial reaction when I first received So if you find you've been procrastinating,non-profit organization which promotes and supports stu­the assignment was shock, anger and even ter­partying or just acting irrationally you maydent involvement in community service and action, will ror. Somehow, I managed to calm down and have an evil twin too. Explain this dilemma tohold its annual three day conference at Fordham Univer­accept the fact that the difficulty of the paper your professors, friends and family so that they sity in New York from March 9-12. The benefit concert on REQUIRED that I start it several days before are aware of the problem. I am sure they willMarch 11 will feature "10,000 Maniacs." For more infor­it was due. understand.
mation call 289-1233. -The Observer 
$1 00 advance enrollment deposits are due March 
1. All undergraduates who plan to enroll for the fall se­mester, 1989-90, must returnn the Advance Enrollment Form along with the deposit to Student Accounts. Do not use campus mail. A $20 late fee will be charged if the form 



CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
and the $100 deposit are not turned in by March 1. -The Observer 
Sophomore business majors interested in the position of Assistant Student Body Treasurer for 1989-1990 
* 

should pick up an application in the Treasurer's office, second floor of LaFortune Student Center, between 12-4 

* 
p.m. All applications are due March 2 by 4 p.m. Any ques­tions, call 239-7417. -The Observer 
~ * * 
EVERYONE IS DOING
* 
IT' HELP REPAIR A 
* HOUSE OF A NEEDY
* 

SOUTH BEND 
Design Editor ...... Kathy Huston Viewpoint Copy Editor ... J. Scharfenberg Design Assi8tant ............. Janice O'Leary Accent Copy Editor ............. Mike Restle 
* FAMILY. 
Typesetters.......................... Tim Kiefer Typi8ts.. .... . .. . . . . ... . . . . . . . ... .. Diana Bradley ............................................. Mike Kolar ............................................. Will Zamer 
* 

News Editor...................... Sara Marley ND Day Editor ... Christine Dombrowski Copy Editor ....................... Missy Weber SMC Day Editor .......... Rozel Gatmaitan Sports Copy Editor ................ Pete Skiko Photographer........... . .. Don Pan 
* 
* 
* 

De o..n. (USPS 599 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday accpt duriq exam IIIII vacation periods. neot.ner is published by the students of the Uaivcnity of Notre O..CIJIII Saint Mary'J Cof.leac. Sublc:riptions may be pun:bu­ed for $40 per year (S25 per semester) by writilll De o..n., P.O. Box Q, Notre 
CONTACT YOUR HALL COUNCIL AT SAINT MARY'S
0.... IDdiaaa 46556. De~ is I manbcr of De ~--..._, All reproduction fiahll are 
'Evil twin' is responsible for irrational behavior 
The other day while pondering over my latest irrational act I experienced a flash of enlighten­John ment. It wasn't me who committed these rash acts of stupidity, it was my evil twin Jon Blon Blasi Jazi. 
The source of my frustration was a result of Assistant Accent Editor 


--~-~---------------~ --~--­
---------------------------------~----­
Tuesday, February 28, 1989 The Observer page 3 

SMC Board looks at poor attendance 
By LAUREL VITALE News Staff 
Poor attendance at campus events this semester was the topic of Monday's Saint Mary's Programming Board meeting. 
Lisa Hill, vice president for Student Affairs, expressed her disappointment with the low student body turn-out to last week's Winteriest activities. Hill believes that the publicity for planned campus activities has been thorough and the en­tertainment has been of high quality. 
"We hope to get more future support from the student body for the hard work put into events by the Student Activities Board and the entertainers themselves," said Hill. 
The Board will sell St. Patrick's Day T-shirts begin­ning March 12. The shirts will be sold in the in Haggar College Center game room and will cost approximately $7. 
Student government is also co-sponsoring with Logan Cen­ter the sale of green clown noses forSt. Patrick's Day. The noses are $1 and available now in Haggar game room or from board members. 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
YOUR FIRST STEP TOWARD SUCCESS IS THE ONE YOU COULD TAKE THIS SUMMER. 
Anny ROTC Camp Challenge. It's exciting and it may beyour last opportunity to grad­uate with an Anny Officer's commission. 


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 

Interested? Call Major Warrick 
239-6264 

pected Aliens Processed 
Some of the seventy-nine suspected illegal aliens the Immigration and Naturalization Service in apprehended Monday at Hartsfield Atlanta lnterna-Decatur, Ga. tional Airport are photographed and fingerprinted at 



Student Senate clarifies SUB role 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Staff Reporter 
Student Senate resolved arguments concerning pro­posed constitutional changes for the Student Union Board Monday and then voted unani­mously to approve the changes. 
The issue of SUB constitu­tional changes, tabled from last week, were controversial because "there was no context in the constitution to under­stand what's going on in the or­ganization (SUB)," said Stu­dent Body Vice President Mike Paese. 

IAMERICAN 
t~­



A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
WHEN: September 16-18, 1988 
*November 11-13, 1988 February 3-5, 1989 March 31-April 2, 1989 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office (Badin Hall) 239-5242 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: February 24-March 3rd 

OFFICE OF 
0MPUS

COST: $15.00 MINISTRY 
Although provisions were proposed to clarify the finan­cial activities of SUB, Paese objected that they would not be enough. 
Student Body President Tom Doyle emphasized that since SUB board members are not elected by the student body and because SUB has the largest budget of any student organi­zation, both their financial and their general policies should be under closer scrutiny of the senate. 
SUB manager Brian Reilly held that the provision to review the financial activities would suffice, but student gov­ernment and other members of senate disagreed. 
The issue was resolved with 
a proposal to add a new article 
to the constitution. The new ar­
ticle would create a council 
composed of the student body president, the SUB manager, and the Hall President Council chairperson. 
This council would discuss the policies of each represented organization, including SUB, and would report any mis­management to senate. 
The new constitutional arti­cle was unanimously ap­proved, along with other minor changes regarding SUB. 
dent, received 506 votes or 13.64 percent.





Run-off 
continued from page 1 
All four candidates in the received 538 votes (59.78 per-run-off elections were optimis­cent) in defeating Sean Scan-tic of their chances in the run­lou, who received 362 votes and offs. 
40.22 percent. "I've seen many elections 
In the two uncontested Sen-and I've seen where the candi­ate races, Dan Hoag and John dates who comes in second in Krotzer won Districts Three the primaries comes over the and Five respectively. top and that's what we're going 
In the presidential race, the to do," said Smith. ticket of Dan (King) Fahey received 579 votes or 15.60 per­"It's a brand new ball game. cent of the total. The ticket of There's two of us now and the Bob McTamaney, president, choice (hopefully) will be very and Pat Russell, vice presi-clear," added Rask. 
The Alumni Association Snite Museum and Student Government 
Present 

9.:r ­

~ 
I~ ~. 
ANNUAL 

STUDENT 

--~_:R:.r-. 
.·EX·HJB.lr•· 


on March 20, 21, and 22 Only flat works with a maximum size of 3'x 3' accepted First purchase prize: $200 
Second and third prize: $100 each Deadline for submittance of artwork is Tuesday, March 14 Applications con be picked up at the Office of Student Activities. 
page 4  The Observer  Tuesday, February 28, 1989  
Brooks continued from page 1 tickets carry. Bloom said South Bend police have requested Brooks's Okla­homa driving record from the motor vehicle bureau in Okla­ had barred Brooks from all ex­tracurricular activities, includ­ing spring practice, for an un­disclosed reason, according to Sports Information Director John Heisler. Heisler could not be reached for comment.  Stonebreaker; Tony Brooks will probably not participate in spring practice and who knows what else will happen as you go along," Holtz said in New York in assessing prospects for the Irish in 1989.  
homa City. Previously,  the  University  "We've already lost an out­standing linebacker, Michael  The Associated Press tributed to this story.  con­ 



Case 
continued from page 1 
Feirrell said. No charges had been filed by Monday. 
Barnes said his office would further investigate the acci­dent. "Mter that's done and we review some of the informa­tion, I'll be in a better position to make a decision," he said. "We're under no time con­straints. He remains hospi­talized. There's no urgency with regard to the matter." 
University rules require evaulation and counseling of students who abuse alcohol and the possible loss of campus driving privileges for alcohol­related driving offenses, said Denny Moore, assistant direc­tor of public relations and in­formation. 
Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal was out of town and not available for comment. Football coach Lou Holtz was in New York for a press con­ference with Virginia coach George Welsh on the Aug. 31 pre-season Kickoff Classic. 
Dr. David Bankoff, an or­thopedic surgeon who operated on Stonebreaker, said the 6­foot-1, 228-pound junior could recover sufficiently to play this fall. Bankoff said 10 to 15 per­cent of patients with dislocated hips develop arthritis or prob­lems with blood circulation to the bone. 
Doctors say Stonebreaker could be discharged later this week and transferred to the Notre Dame infirmary to con­tinue his recovery. Bankoff said he will be on crutches for a month. 

If)OO're gJi~ to drink am dri..e at least let tre rest of 1.15 kro.v. Reader's Digest 

r---------------------------­


BUc;;LE ~ 
ofJOY 
is 22!! 
Happy Birthday Suzanne!! 
We Love You!! Mon,Dad 
AP Photo 
and Vinnie 
MICHAEL HARRINGTON 
Co-Chairman of the Democratic Socialists of America 
Author of The Other America (1963) 
"THE OTHER AMERICA REVISITED" 
7:00p.m. Tuesday, February 28, 1989 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
and 
BROWN BAG LUNCH 
"A Conversation with Michael Harrington" 
12:00 p.m. Wednesday, March 1, 1989 Center for Social Concerns 
All Invited 
Co-sponsored by: The Helen Kellogg Institute for lnternatio11al Studies, The Department of Government and International Studies, Student Government. 
r-----------~--------------------------------~-----------------------·---· 
Tuesday, February 28, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Supreme Court paves way for local affirmative action trial 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind.-The city administration and a rejected fire department applicant may go to trial over an affirmative action hiring plan, officials said Monday. 
The U.S. Supreme Court, without comment, let stand a ruling that struck down the plan after it was challenged by a white man who was denied a job as a firefighter. 
Last December, the 7th U.S. 
Circuit Court of Appeals ruled the South Bend plan amounted to unlawful reverse discrimi­nation. 
The appeals court said a dis­parity between the percentage of black employees in safety jobs and the percentage in the city's population was too vague to warrant denying jobs to white applicants. 
The suit was brought by Timothy Janowiak, who claimed he was unfairly denied 
Our Vacation is over and we are ready to serve you once again. A New Season in Harbor Country and Beyond the Sea Crabhouse has some surprises for you. Come join us. Reopening March 1st New Hours: Tues-Thurs 3-10 pm Fri-Sun 3-11 pm Closed Monday Check out "Early Apps" between 3-5 pm Tues -Fri 
Beyond the Sea Crabhouse Red Arrow Highway Union Pier, Ml 

616 469-0200 
a fire department job because of race. 
"We are now set to come back down here and get ready for trial," said Thomas Bod­nar, chief deputy city attorney.· 
The city has new evidence not presented in the original case to support the need for the plan, said Bodnar. It includes figures showing the percentage of minorities in the city workforce, rather than in the general population. The city had been unable to provide that figure when the courts asked for it earlier, he said. 

It could be at least a year 
before the trial begins, Bodnar 
said. 
Janowiak's attorney, Patrick McFadden, said his client would consider discussing a settlement with the city. A tri­al, if one is held, might be lim­ited to issues of damages or Janowiak's employment by the department, McFadden added. 
The challenged affirmative action plan has remained in place during litigation, Bodnar said. Black and Hispanic employees currently make up about 17 percent of the police department and 13 percent of the fire department, he said. 
Census statistics from 1980 indicated the minority popula­tion of the city was about 20 percent. The percentage of minorities in the workforce may vary from that figure by 1 percent or 2 percent, he said. 

Indiana House passes bill to ban random drug testing in workplace 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Random drug tests of most employees, job applicants and student ath­letes would be banned under a bill narrowly approved Mon­day by the Indiana House. 
Lawmakers voted 53-47 for House Bill 1691, sponsored by Rep. Jerome Kearns, D-Terre Haute. Last week, the bill failed by one vote, 50-49, to ob­tain the constitutional majority needed for passage but because it wasn't defeated, it was eligi­ble for another vote. 

Meanwhile, the Senate ap­proved a drug-testing measure that would permit random test­ing of workers and job appli­cants but establish a rigid protocol for the tests. 
Kearns called the testing ban bill "of high importance." He argued that it protects citizen's right to privacy and assures them of their constitutional 

''Iwasnt rubbing
it in-I just wanted Eddie to know the score of last nights game.~~ 

Go ahead and gloat. You can rub it in all the way to Chicago with AT&T Long Distance Service. Besides, your best friend Eddie was the one who said your team could never win three straight. 
So give him acall. It costs a lot less than you think to let him know who's headed for the Playoffs. Reach out and touch someone~ 
If youtllike to know more about AT&T products and services, like International Calling and the AT&T Card, call us at 1800 222-0300. 

ATs.T 
The right choice. 
protection against unreasona­ble searches and seizures. 
The bill, which now goes to the Senate, would permit drug tests only when there was probable cause to believe a worker, job applicant or stu­dent athlete was abusing drugs. 
High school and college ath­letes, including those now un­der school or NCAA-ordered random tests, would be protected from random testing under the legislation. 
However, the bill does not cover professional athletes whose collective bargaining agreements permit random testing and world-class amateurs who must take tests to compete in international competitions such as the Olym­pics and Pan American games. 
Mass transit workers also could be tested. New federal regulations call for testing of those workers. 
Rep. Jerome Reppa, R­Munster, called the bill "a ter­rible piece of legislation." 
"I wonder what kind of mes­sage we're sending to our children with this kind of bill," said Reppa. 
Reppa also said the bill would undo two Tippecanoe County high schools' drug testing pro­grams that have been upheld by federal courts. A federal dis­trict court and the 7th U.S. Cir­cuit Court of Appeals have up­held the plan of Lafayette Harrison and McCutcheon high schools to test athletes and cheerleaders. 
Reppa said lawmakers should instead support Senate Bill 265, which would permit drug testing of employees and job applicants but establish a protocol for conducting the tests. The measure doesn't ap­ply to students. 
That bill sponsored by Sen. Patricia Miller, R­Indianapolis, passed the Sen­ate Monday on a 26-24 vote. 
The bill would require com­panies to put their drug testing policies in writing; use specific testing methods and safeguards to ensure samples were not altered; allow re­testing if a sample tested pos­itive; and allow employers to discipline, fire, refuse to hire or require rehabilitation for workers who tested positive for drugs. 
The bill also would set out an appeals process for employees but would make employers who acted in good faith immune from civil lawsuits by employees who had false­positive test results. 
Sen. John Bushemi, D-Gary, said he opposed the bill because it would allow testing to be con­ducted randomly and without probable cause. 


AP Photo 

Defense Secretary-designate John Tower is all smiles 
going public with his campaign to become defense 
prior to the taping of ABC-TV's "This Week with David 
secretary despite a vote by the Senate Armed Ser­
Brinkley" in Washington Sunday morning. Tower is 
vices Committee last week to reject the nomination. 



Fisher 
continued from page 1 
ther there would have been a 
runoff if Fisher's election 
process been run normally. 
The Breslin ticket was 11 
votes short of a majority of 
votes cast campus-wide. The 
totals of the door-to-door poll of 
Fisher residents were 30 for 
Breslin and 27 for Rask, with 
12 for the Dan Fahey ticket and 
5 for the Bob McTamaney 
ticket. Fisher's • total 
percentage of students casting 
votes was below the dorm 
average, according to Stadter. 
Mike Paese, student body 
vice president, said "they 
made the correct decision" to 
hold a runoff election. "We'd 
rather err on the side of ... 
being conservative and let the 
voters decide." 
Stadter said he heard from 
an unknown source at 5 p.m. 
Monday that there had been no 
elections in Fisher. "We 
decided to go around Fisher 
and give people the opportunity 
to vote," Stadter said. Accor­
ding to Stadter, a door-to-door 
vote was taken by Ombudsman 
Steering Committee member 
Vic DeFrancis, starting around 
7:30 p.m. and lasting for two hours. One person carried a ballot box and a voting check­list with him. 
These votes were tallied and 
counted as Fisher's votes. 
There was some discussion as to whether a second try at getting Fisher student votes was necessary, especially since the Fisher vote turnout was low and the runoff election was possible. 
"We decided in the end that we had given them (students in Fisher) ample opportunity to vote," Stadter said. "They didn't inform us until5 o'clock" that the regular election had not taken place, he added. 
The head of the Judicial Board in each dorm is respon­sible for overseeing all student government elections, Stadter said. 
Junior Matt Gallagher was listed as the J-board coordina­tor for Fisher, Stadter said. But Gallagher said he had resigned his position early last week, and that he had forwarded all mail relating to J-board mat­ters to current J-board chair­man Steinlage. 
"The chair position switched hands last week," said Stein­lage, and as a result, he had 
not attended earlier meetings ernment office, said Stadter. for J-board chairmen with Judi­Steinlage said he had picked upcial Board coordinator Arty the ballot materials, but that Feles. Feles said that he had there was no mention of the 
"nothing to do with the elec­election times and dates in the tions other than keeping the J­ballot materials. board chairs informed." 
"It was my responsibility to 
find out," said Steinlage. He 

Fisher Judicial Board mem­said he did not hear that elec­bers were supposed to pick up tions were today until the Om­their ballot materials on budsman door-to-door poll Friday from the student gov-Monday night. 

Grad Students, Professors, Employees 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

* Pool, Clubhouse * locked intercom entrances 
• Washer & dryer in each apartment * flexible leases 
( also -furnished executive suites ) call for details-277-3731 

March 14-N.D. LaFortune 6-10 pm 15-N.D. LaFortune 6-10 pm 16-S.M.C. LeMans 5-9 pm 
Don't Forget . 
• 
$70.00 per Bid 

• 
Get measured for Tux 

• 
Buy Flowers 

• 
Arrange Roommates and Dinner Seating 


Tuesday, February 28, 1989 



Bush returns after 5-day Asian trip 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President Bush returned home Monday night from a five-day Asian voyage that he pronounced a "productive and rewarding" journey and moved to take per­sonal command of the struggle to win confirmation for John Tower as defense secretary. 
In a prepared statement he read at the foot of the ramp to Air Force One, Bush said his trip to Japan, China and South Korea demonstrated that the United States "is and will remain a Pacific power." 
"It's great to be home. God bless the United States of America," Bush said in the chilly darkness at Andrews Air Force Base in suburban Maryland. Vice President Dan Quayle was on hand to welcome the president back from his first overseas voyage. 
In his brief statement, the president said he had held "thoughtful and candid con­versations" with world leaders, including the several he met with in Japan, where he attended the funeral of Em­peror Hirohito. From there he went to China for two days, fol­lowed by a five-hour stopover in Seoul. 
"I return tonight pleased with the progress made toward lasting and mutually beneficial relationships," Bush said. He said work remains to be done toward encouraging the growth of democracy, working for human rights and strengthen­ing international alliances. 
Bush made no direct refer­ence to the Tower nomination in his airport statement. 
But in comments to reporters just before his plane touched down, he said, "No one has challenged his qualifications to head the Pentagon." 
"I don't have any predictions nor do I plan to except to say I haven't wavered one iota and I don't intend to," he said. 
Asked whether Tower's weekend vow of alcohol 
abstinence  would  help  his  
chances,  Bush  laughed  and  
said, "I don't know."  


Shealyn McGuire ­
Roses are Red, Shamrocks are Green On the 26th You won't be a Teen! 

CONGRATOLATOINS! 
HAPPY 20th!I 
LOVE, 
Mon, Dad and Katelyn 




~R~OB~~~EM~;. 
ha"ef\ights
Marv's student. g theY 

d a St. ~ssunnn 
-tudent an . Chicago. k what
Datne s . ort tn ing brea ' 
~"Notre o'\:\are ~trP inute of spr et frotn to catch at n'}oY e"erY tn \d theY use tog
nt toe . shoU
both wa 0 rtatton ode of transP O'\:\are1 . \ ~irport
tn h Bend to Regtona
Sout Michiana 
a) car flight frotn 
tnuter 
b) cotn d L'tnO 
c)Unite ' 

U"t\ON;



sot: 

e• clea<IV ,uake -k' gcharg
d nar tn
tolls an ..-t answer. lution, CitY tr.afft~, car an incorrec tn to be a good~~nd could tra"ehng Y . "b" tnaY see in South a 
~ d whtle k' d of delaY orse yet, ' 
nb that anY tn 0'\:\are· Or, w we\\, \et s retnett't ~rsing flights a~ nd cou\d tnean• .. n tnlS S th ue•· \ 
tnea \ tion in ou . httnare· . , "Not on y
cancel a \d be a ntg atu\attons· orta• 
. t saY it cou d "c" congr ode of transP h JUS \t you answere os~ re\iab\e tn est {are and t e 
. d LitnO the tn Hers the \oW .nt for the is \Jntteo'\:\are, it a\so 0 ture/ arri"a\ pol \ts in no tion tO nient depar c· c\e This resU ' 
tnost con"e "ND Main tr f he students d nts • the . · ation ° t
stu e d tnallttn17. 
hassles an 
• .,tnent·
'
0
en} 

Why learn this lesson the hard way? If you need to get to O'Hare, 
count on UNITED LIMO. We'll get you there. Call674·6993 for schedule and reservations. Or call your travel agent. 
United Limo 
We'll Get You There 
IMPORTANT: Due to limited seating, we request that you make reservations at least 24 hours in ad~·ance. 
Tuesday, February 28, 1989 
The Observer page 7 
FAA has 'no plans' for new cargo door locks on 747s 
Associated Press even though investigators are strengthen damaged locks on were going over flight data and other airline were stepping up looking at a door malfunction older models of the jumbo jet. cockpit voice recorders from inspections of the cargo door 
WASHINGTON-The Federal as the most likely cause of the As for Friday's incident, in Flight 811. locks. Others said they already Aviation Administration said accident that killed nine people which part of the right side of had made the changes ordered Monday it has no plans to speed over the Pacific Ocean. a United Airlines 747 ripped off, The recorders contain data by the FAA. up mandatory changes in cargo The FAA last summer gave taking two rows of seats with from sensors throughout the United officials said mec­door locks on older Boeing 747s airlines up to tw_o years to it, FAA spokesman Fred Far­aircraft, voices and other hanics had !!tspected all of the 
rar said, "first of all, we've got noises that might add to infor­fleet's 31 747s and found no to find out what happened" mation about the incident, cargo door defects. Nonethe­
before issuing additional or­which left a 10-by-20-foot hole less, the airline was assigning ders. in the plane. mechanics to check the doors Experts from the National Despite the lack of federal ur­before each flight.
Kaplan LSAT prep­
Transportation Safety Board gency, United and at least one The change had not yet been made on the United 747 used on 
AIR TRAVEL 


We plead guilty! 

Flight 811 before Friday's inci­dent, airline officials said. 
IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS 
Northwest Airlines began
The first, the biggest, the best. We plead guilty 
precautionary inspections of
TICKETS DELIVERED 

on all counts to giving LSAT candidates like you 
cargo doors on Sunday, said

the finest test preparation possible. 
spokesman Bob Gibbons, and
255-7272

Every year, Stanley H. Kaplan preps more men CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 
......intends to complete them on the 
and women for the LSAT than anyone else. Why? 
Ill•••••••.. international• 26 affected planes by Tuesday 
... It's simple! Our teachers are LSAT specialists 
..........<8· toursf/,...,._1·.......night. Improved locks had ear-
who know what it takes to score. Our research • • lier been installed on 15 other staff keeps you on top of the latest test changes. 117 S. MAIN STREET jumbo jets. 
MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 
Our home study pack and audio study lab lets you get as much LSAT practice as you need. Want proofl Call or visit any of our over 130 nationwide locations. Ask about our free repeat 
HolyCrossFathers 
policy and our scholarship programs. You'll find the professionalism your future deserves. Beyond 
VocationCounseling
the shadow of a doubt. 
Howdolknow





I KAPLAN 

if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL UNTER LTD. 

Wat is the academic 
II

6/12/89 LSAT Prep Class Starts 3/16/89 aftd formation program for becoming a priest? For a personal, confidential interview with no obligatlc:>n,l please write or call the vocation director. What scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. 
What are the various Rev. John Conley, CSC 
apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? Rev. Paul Doyle, CSC
SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 P.O. Box 541 
Notre Dame, Ind. qo:;,:;o-\J:J<+J How do I pray 
219/272-4135 

For appointment, if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood call between 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
arhd I'm not sure?. 
219 239-6385 

What Did Man Do Before 



We are now taking Appl cations for the 1989-90 
school year for the following positions: GENERAL MANAGER OPERATIONS MANAGER PROGRAMMING MANAGER ACCOUNT MANAGER PROMOTIONS MANAGER 14 ASSISTANT MANAGE 
Applications available in the Student Activities Office (3rd Floor Lafortune) and due March 3 -ick one u Today! 



ICEBERG DEBATES 

Library Auditorium 9-10 P.M. 
FINAL ROUND 

STANFORD VS ZAHM 
"That U.S. Econo~nic Aid to a Latin A~nerican country should be tied to the improvement of that country's record of upholding the human rights of its citizens" 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT AND THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 


Tuesday, February 28, 1989 
The Observer page 9 

'Jokester' released to mother after alleged airplane bomb threat 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-A self­described jokester accused of making an airplane bomb threat that forced an emer­gency landing in Indianapolis was released to his mother's custody Monday. 
Anthony G. Pierson, 23, of Rochester Hills, Mich., had been held in the City-County Lockup in Indianapolis since his arrest Saturday on charges of violating the false informa­tion act and making threats. 
Pierson is scheduled to ap-

Airline fined for security failures 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-An Indianapolis-based airlines was fined $1,000 last year after federal agents smuggled a weapon past security guards at a passenger checkpoint, accor­ding to federal reports. 
The Federal Aviation Admin­istration fined American Trans Air in October for the lapse by employees of the airline's se­curity firm, Globe Security 
Two-Buck Tuesday is Back! 
Get any 7" eub for only $2.00 every Tuesday. No coupon necessary lleatbell Monday r--..... 5Q4 off 14" or 18" ··-··" Y
Purchase any sub and meatball sub 
receive a large beverage FREEl 
Two-lluck Tue.day 

Super Sub Sunday Any 14" sub and small Why Not WK~Madayf 
ch1ps only $4.99 Why not order any cold 
10th In'*'• Special
sub and receive 25• off After 10 p.m. order any T' 

your .purcf:lase 

sub. small chips and large beverage tor only $4.50 
211-0SUB 
pear before U.S. Magistrate J. Patrick Endsley on March 15 for a preliminary hearing. 
Pierson allegedly made a threat on an American Trans Air charter L-1011 Saturday carrying 339 passengers and 12 crew members from Detroit to Cancun, Mexico. 
If convicted, he could face a sentence of up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. 
No explosives were found in a search after Flight 309 made an emergency landing at In­dianapolis International Air­port. Passengers were told the 
Systems Co., at the In­dianapolis International Airport, the reports said. 
It was the third such violation by the airline in seven months, according to federal records. The previous violations oc­curred in November 1987. 
Written reports show that Globe workers failed to detect a "test device" carried by FAA agent David Kane at the Con­course B and C passenger screening point on May 6, 1988. 

MATEO'S 
plane was making an un­scheduled landing because of possible mechanical problems. 
The FBI says Pierson told authorities he had told the flight attendant he had prop­hylactics, but Indiana State Police Sgt. John Wheeler said many witnesses reported Pier­son had said he had plastic ex­plosives. 

The object in question turned out to be a briefcase containing a camcorder that a seatmate had borrowed from another friend. 
Airline and FAA officials declined to release further details of the incident. 
"The FAA daily sends people with test devices around the country, and the vast majority are found,'' said David Recker, chief executive officer for the airline. 
"This time, we got caught. We catch most of them, but here's one we missed," Recker said. 
American flag fronts a huge crowd 
Democrats 'unmoved' on Tower 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Senate Democrats remained unmoved Monday on John Tower's nomination as defense secre­tary despite his unprecedented pledge to abstain from alcohol if confirmed. 
Senators trekked to a special committee hearing room to read the latest FBI report on Tower, while those members the Bush administration hopes to sway indicated they are either undecided or leaning against confirmation. 
Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., considered by some a swing vote, told reporters in Miami that Tower's pledge helps but "it's not just the drinking which is a problem to me." 
"It's a pattern of bad judgment-bad judgment in the 1970s in drinking, bad judg­ment by placing himself in compromising positions as the 
U.S. arms negotiator in Geneva in the mid-80s, bad judgment in accepting large sums from the defense industry in the late 1980s," Graham said. 
The Democratic-controlled Senate Armed Services Com­mittee voted 11-9 along party lines last Thursday to recom­mend that the full Senate reject the nomination, with panel chairman Sen. Sam Nunn, D­Ga., citing Tower's drinking habits among other concerns. 
Tower on Sunday sought to allay the fears of his former colleagues by issuing an ex­traordinary pledge not to take a single drink if he is con­firmed. The full Senate is ex­pected to take up the nomina­tion Wednesday. 
Democrats hold a 55-45 majority in the Senate, meaning Bush must pick up at least five Democrats and hold all Republicans to assure con­





Viewpoint
pa_ge 10 Tuesday, February 28, 1989 
Grad Student Council now up to par 
As has been made public through an article in The Observer last Friday Feb. 24, and in a letter from the GSU to the graduate student body submitted to The Observer on Wednesday, Feb. 22, during its last regular meeting the Graduate Student Council approved (1) the proposed 1989-90 budget, which in­cluded a raise in the officer stipends, as well as raises in almost all other budgetary categories of the GSU (by 12 votes to 5), and (2) the recommenda­tion to the University Administration to increase the graduate student activ­ities fee from $20 to $25 (by 10 votes to 5, with two abstentions). 
Victor J. Krebs 
Graduate Student Union 
Chris Kennedy, graduate student in physics, has made allegations that "the GSU mishandled the Feb. 14 meeting... failing to notify council rep­resentatives about either the meeting or the issues." These allegations are false. Council representatives were reminded of the regular monthly meeting through the customary GSU memorandum. This reminder included not only a summary of the items to be discussed but also stressed the impor­tance of the representatives' atten­dance at the meeting. Furthermore, the monthly newsletter, Grad News, states that " (GSU) holds its meetings on the second Tuesday of every month at 7 
Problems with Grad Student budget 
Dear Editor: 
On Tuesday, Feb. 14, the Graudate Student Union pased its budget for the 1989-90 academic year. This budget con­tained two items that have raised my ire. These items are upsetting not only because they are in the budget but also because of the way they were passed. These two items are a 25 percent in­crease in the Graduate Student Activity Fee (from $20 to $25) and a 350 percent increase in the salaries for the Graudate Student Union officers ($400 to $1400 per year). The salary increase and the addition of an office worker's salary to the GSU brings salaries to almost 30 percent of the total GSU budget, and almost 50 percent of the budget if travel grant money is not in­cluded. 
As stated above there are several points in the enacting of these items with which I take exception. First, no mention was made in the Grad News which came out last Tuesday of the magnitude of the raise, the fact that a vote would be taken about the raise that evening, or that the GSU was planning to hire an office worker. The Grad News p.m. in the Notre Dame Room," and the last issue was distributed only two days before the Feb. meeting. 
The quorum required by the consti­tution is a minimum representation of five departments. Fifteen departments out of 26 were represented in the last council meeting, and (not including the five officers and travel grant chair) 17 Council members attended the meeting (not 13 as The Observer quoted). 
With our efforts this year attendance to the council meetings has dramati­cally increased. Although attendance at the last meeting was the lowest our administration has had this year, it was well above the average attendance last year, as Kennedy, having been an offi­cer of the GSU himself during that per­iod, is well aware. More importantly, the attendance at that meeting was well above the minimum quorum required by the constitution. 
Kennedy is also quoted in The Obser­ver article as claiming that "Krebs denied a request to postpone the vote on the budget increase until represen­tatives could speak to their constitu­ents." This, again, is false. In answer to the suggestion made by the physics representative to delay the vote, as chair of the meeting I explained that the vote was needed before the elec­tions and that therefore representa­tives should consider making the deci­sion at the current meeting. Representatives then agreed to con­sider the vote without delay, and no mo­tion was made to the contrary. They moreover requested a week to inform their constituencies before we made any public statement. That is the rea­son why the GSU letter to the graduate student body was not submitted to The Observer until Wednesday, Feb. 22. 
Kennedy also circulated a petition that "strongly opposed. . . the Graduate Student Union's plan to give their officers a 350 percent raise," and obtained signatures from six out of the 26 departments in the graduate school. But the petition falsely suggested that the increase would benefit the present 
officers of the GSU. None of the present officers will be running for those posi­tions. 
The decisions taken by the council were based on the judgment shared by the executive board that they were in the best interest of the graduate student body. As the vote shows, the council agrees that it is necessary to have an organization that effectively caters to the social needs of graduate students and represents their special concerns to the university administration. The votes also indicate their judgment that an effective organization is virtually impossible without offering incentives for the officer positions. 
What the executive board suggested in the proposed 1989-90 budget is a radi­cal change. We are transforming what were merely nominal stipends to a modest but reasonable remuneration for the work required by the officer pos­itions. Hence the approximately 250 percent (not 350 percent as the petition 

P.O. Box Q 
is the GSU's publication which is sup­posed to inform the graduate student population if issues pertaining to them. The only mention of a possible raise was in Victor Krebs' column where he advocated a raise in general. Since he has repeatedly called for a raise for GSU officers, no one would have any particular reason to believe that this editorial would be followed by a vote. 
Second, several departmental repre­sentatives were not informed of the meeting or the issues to be discussed. Since the meeting was held the evening of Valentine's Day, during a Notre Dame basketball game, many repre­sentatives did not attend. Several rep­resentatives have stated that they would have opposed the raises in fees and salaries had they known of the vote. 
Third, I have heard independently from four people that when a sugges­tion was amde to delay the vote so that representative could poll their depart­ments, Mr. Krebs said that the graduate population in general does not known what is going on and that the representatives should therefore per­suade departments that what the GSU does is good for them. Fourth and fi­nally, the enactment of this plan has not been publicized ahead of time in The Observer. Obviously news of an issue of this magnitude should be relayed as quickly as possible to the people it affects. In this case, it would probably would have been proper for the GSU to use The Observer for this purpose. 
I will be the first to admit that events can conspire to make things appear as they actually are not. If incorrect con­clusion have been drawn I apologize. I also warn members of the GSU that to the casual observer these facts would indicate that someone was trying to pull a fast one and they should not judge too harshly anyone who, correctly or not, come to this conclusion. 
I have been given a copy of the 1989-90 budget and here is how it breaks down: 
Total Budget: $29,700-100% 
Travel Grant: $12,000-40.4% 
Salaries: $8,700-29.3% 
All other expenses: $9,000-30.3% 
Once the information concerning these raises reached the physics and chemistry departments, there was very strong opposition to them. Sentiments generally ran between petitioning the University to block these raises and fol­lowing the example of the business school and withdrawing from the GSU. Perhaps the physics and chemistry de­partments are not a representative sample of the graduate student popula­states) raise in salaries. They con­stitute a remuneration of $3.10 per hour, on a very conservative estimate of 15 hours of work per week. 
It has been the aim of the present officers of the GSU throughout the year to make the Graudate Student Union a serious representative organization of graduate student interests. For anybody that has been following the news, or anybody involved with the stu­dent organizations or with the admin­istration, it has been apparent that great strides have been made in that direction. 
With the budget increase the GSU will have the ability to increase the fre­quency of social activities as well as continue the task of graduate student representation at all levels that we have begun. 
We have not received any personal benefits from this work, nor did we ex­pect to. We believe that we have estab­lished a solid groundwork for the future growth of the Graduate Student Union. With the support of graduate students and their active involvement the GSU can help improve graduate student life in all its aspects. 
We can only hope that the confusion and ill feelings caused by the action of one individual does not prevent graduate students from discerning what is in their best interest. 
Victor J. Krebs is president of the Graduate Student Union and is a regu­lar Viewpoint columnist. 
tion. If so, then withdrawing from the GSU appears to be the correct option since the GSU does not represent graduate students. On the other hand, if the reaction of these departments is representative ·of the views of the graduate student population in general, then the GSU is no longer serving is purpose of "representing the views of the graduate students." 
The main question of "do the GSU officers deserve a 350 percent raise?" still needs to be addressed. The only answer I have gotten from GSU repre­sentatives is that the purpose of this raise is to attract quality people to serve as GSU officers. There are many arguments about whether a raise will actually attract 'quality people' and what size of raise is needed. My per­sonal feelings are that a raise would not attract these people and that may actually be counterproductive. I hope that the current and future GSU ad­ministrations are willing to listen and respond to the people and thus elimi­nate the appearance of wrong that this episode seems to have brought. 
Chris Kennedy Off-campus Feb. 20, 1989 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 
THAT tut/'7 MY /AIHY? I'LL MOTHtiNN·/..4MI. D&T H/3'5 5HI3'511J'PAJ,/BJ GREifTlf/fTH 'THAT /A/5 Hl!?EI? fT! I l{)NK&R. 70Ht:I.P 
/AIITH TH/3 8ABY. 
7V HER, IT'5 !NaJNU!VA&& 
THAT ZON!<&R M16HT HAV& OIAN6W, 7HATH& M16HT 
HAVB TURNW IN7V 90M£0N& (A/()f{JH'f OFOUR.FUU­
ZONKIR! 
WHAT A?& YOU 

00/NG?
I 

'Finding Christ is not a destination: it is a journey.' 
-Anonymous 

-------------------~--~ --~--~----------. 
Tuesday, February 28, 1989 page 11



Viewpoint Education should have global flavor 
In all fields of learning except busi­other American schools into an standing about a subject. The forum by labeling those axes with yen instead ness, college students study to one internationally-oriented mindset, will provide the student body, as well of dollars, which in no way reduces the degree or another the practices and his­weaving a global flavor through class as the faculty, with an excellent oppor­American perspective in the class­tory of other people. Such studies range studies, student body and faculty tunity for such discussion. We are room, but instead contributes to a world from world history, to philisophy and makeup, and campus activities. One serious about our studies, for we realize of knowledge. theology, international medical prac­such activity is the College of Business that whatever investment is made in In doing so, we students will begin to tices, ancient architecture, and classi­Administration Student Globalization us today will reveal itself as a return see ourselves not only as "Domers" cal and contemporary languages and Forum. This forum will act as a tomorrow. With the help of events such here at Notre Dame, or as Americans; music. With America's comparatively catalyst to establish an overriding in­as the Globalization Forum and a but as human beings existing in a vast short existence, students necessarily ternational atmosphere and will help campus-wide, internationally-minded world, with a greater appreciation for look to other cultures and past ages for Notre Dame live up to its worldly atmosphere, a complete investment cultural diversity. Our cultural and eth­education, for therein lie the greatest reputation. will produce graduates who are syner­ical positions do not have to be com­riches in any of these endeavors. The We are calling for Notre Dame to gistically capable as globally-oriented promised in this process; but other pos­one field in which American riches, catch a wave and ride it, instead of leaders. itions do need to be reviewed and both education and financial, have waiting to be hit by it. It is foolish for respected. Only then can society be bet­surpassed other countries is business. us to hide in the middle of America, It is foolish for us to hide tered in two ways; first, comparative
U.S. business has in roughly 200 years letting our fears control our actions, in the middle of America, advantages can be determined, thus in­established itself as the world leader. and our arrogance control our inaction. creasing a theoretical GWP (gross
letting our fears control
We as Americans exude a haughty We cannot worry, on a smaller geo­world product); and second, the main­­pride about this; therefore, no real need graphical scale, that the permeation of our actions, and our tenance of world peace can be insured to study the rest of the world's business our American campuses by foreign cul­arrogance control our to a far greater extent. Surely the con­practices has been deemed necessary. ture will destroy our ideals. What we tinuance of an American air of superi­

inaction.

as students and tomorrow's leaders ority is greatly outweighed by theseFred Botel must realize is that the only way to But any talk of return must also in­possible gains. strengthen a belief is to challenge it; clude risk. A justifiable concern is the But actions speak louder than words. 
guest column 

the belief will either be lost to a better possible reduction of emphasis and Yes, Notre Dame students are pres­
one, or it will be solidified. time devoted to American points of ently afforded some nations' native 
Our colonial states' boundaries fell to view. This may be our American ego dress and dance for an hour or so on 
But times have changed and, to be the higher, common good of the nation, speaking. Some business school profes­an afternoon, and a small number of 
trite, the world is getting smaller every and presently we find our nation's sors argue that the study of supply and foreign study openings exist. But these 
day. The United States is no longer oceanic demarcations not sufficient to demand or risk and return is common efforts fall short of fulfilling the overall · 
alone atop the business world. For this keep out foreign influence. In this light, to all countries around the world, need. We as a unified student body 
reason, our narrow-minded air of supe­our universities must not help promote changed merely by the labeling of should ask not to walk through a 
riority must be reshaped into a pride fear about this process, but rather graphs' axes from dollars to, say, yen museum to view other cultures without 
in learning about other cultures, should lead America through this or pounds. With this in mind, these pro­breaking stride. Rather, we should 
producing quality products and making transitional period toward a global at­fessors question whether the melding desire to be immersed in cultures, 
decisions that are competitive in the titude. Notre Dame, in its repected po­of a global perspective into our now walking and living with people from 
global world. Business education today sition, has the responsibility to make solely Americanized business studies other lands, and studying and ap­
must include a global perspective for its presence felt in this regard and to would be beneficial. preciating others' ways and values. 
the purpose of adequately equipping made a difference. While acting upon the knowledge that This globalization process must be in­
today's students for tomorrow's One special characteristic that Notre Japanese businessmen, for example, itiated educationally at the University 
careers. Dame students possess is a genuine exchange gifts before dealing and of Notre Dame, and the forum is only 
Notre Dame students realize this desire to learn; for we know that we do never say no to a person's face may a beginning. All students should point 
fact. We have chosen this university not understand everything. Attempting increase initial transaction costs and to a culturally diverse learning envi­
over countless others because of Notre to hide ignorance under a guise of some consume valuable time, these costs are ronment which further increases the 
Dame's Catholic background, aca­haughty national, or even school, pride negligible when compared to the loss importance of the Globalization Forum demic excellence, and world renowned is ignorant and dangerous in itself. realized upon not being able to do busi­as the starting point and as the richest reputation. These factors place Notre Notre Dame students, even more than ness because of cultural ignorance and source of discussion, education, and Dame at the forefront in ethical ground­those of other universities, seem to en­apparent disrespect on our part. The available opportunity. ing and educational pursuit. As such, joy in-depth conversation and debate, point lies, therefore, in taking the time Fred Botel is a senior in the College of this university has the obligation to lead which are means of increasing under-and initiative to learn. This can start Business Administration. 


Boxing not a sport, but a spectacle 
The 1989 Bengal Bouts are finished, Some would respond that all sport is ring? United States) subsides.in the minds of and not a moment too soon. I was tired violent to some degree, yet this is a I realize there are many people who most. We go along in our merry way,of politely refusing invitations from feeble misapplication of terminology. may agree that boxing is barbaric and worrying more about our next exam friends to go and view Notre Dame stu­There is a broad and conclusive separa­irrational, but they still defend the Ben­grade or our spring break location dents beat the hell out of each other, tion between competition and violence, gal Bounts because it is "for a good more than we do about the standard of all in the name of charity. Never did I and boxing is clearly representing the cause." Undoubtedly it is for a good living of less fortunate human beings.reveal my true disgust and repulsion latter category. While football and cause, and I am well aware of the fact I am as guilty as the rest, yet I realize for boxing, nor did I expound upon the wrestling and other assorted events that a great deal of money has been the only vehicle for positive change will utter ridiculousness of the sport--and I may result in violent behavior, they are raised for hungry people. Still, this in be a political solution. For now, use this term with reluctance. not definitively ingrained with non-stop no way justifies or lessens the violent however, the hungry will continue to go
punching as is boxing. Furthermore, no aspect of boxing. There are countless hungry and the Notre Dame BengalMichael A. Schadek other "sport" has as its primary objec­non-violent events which could raise as Bout boxers will continue to hurt each tive to leave the competition lying on much if not more money than a boxing others, all in the name of charity.
like it or not 

the floor, preferably bleeding. Boxing event. The point is that the end does 
is the epitome of rampant brutalily, and not justify the means. Just because It is time for boxing to be recognized 
it is simply wrong. money is raised for the hungry does not for what it truly is: barbaric violence. 
Simply stated, boxing is barbaric. Boxing is also an extremely sexist mean that the vehicle of funding--men Men have been killed because of it, and How could it be anything but barbaric event. Only men can partake in this beating the hell out of each other--is countless individuals have suffered se­when two individuals enter a ring and revered form of maculinity. Boxing en­justified. vere brain damage and other debilitat­proceed to punch each other until one thusiasts would claim it ridiculous for ing effects. It is time to take a step of the participants can no longer con­two women to enter the ring and fight In theory the Bengal Bouts are a forward in our humanity as a society tinue? There is something terribly to prove their femininity. Yet, it is per­noble and admirable event. The sym­and outlaw this ridiculous event. In the 
wrong with the notion that such blatant violence is acceptable. Is it really "sport" to watch two human beings engage in non-stop punching and jab­bing? I think not. Rather, boxing has somehow become condoned violence in which it is deemed acceptable for two people to try to hurt the other partici­pant. 
fectly understandable why two men would wish to engage in unadulterated violence. After all, that is what men do--they fight to prove their self-worth! Maybe it does take courage and strength and endurance of a true man to enter the ring. Or, perhaps all that is required is a little ignorance; would a rational man really enter the boxing bolism of the "strong" fighting to feed the "weak" is powerful. It is an attempt to alleviate hunger and starvation. Ul­timately, however, it is not enough. The real problem is not being addressed. Unfortunately, after the last boxer hangs up his gloves and the last spec­tator leaves Stepan Center, the issue of hunger (not only in Bengal but in these meantime, the organizers of the Bengal Bouts should redirect their time and energy into a more compassionate and civil fund-raising event for the hungry of Bangladesh. 

Michael A. Schadek is a junior govern­ment major and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

-Ih-e-0bse~--­. _L-J -_-~~r-­&.~Y=.'-' ---­ Editorial Board  O~Serations  Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Edrtor-m-Chref Managmg Editor News Editor  Chns Murphy Chns Donnelly Reg1s Cocc1a  Busmes~ Manager Advertising Desrgn Manager Advertising Manager  John Oxnder Molly Killfon L1nda Goldschnvdt  - 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un,verSity of  News Edrtor  Mark Mclaughlin  Production Manager  Bernadene shins  
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College. h does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of  Viewpomt Edrtet.  .... Dave Bruner  Systems Manager  Mark Ridgeway  
the adm1n1Strat1on of e1ther. 1nstitut1on. The news 1s reported as accurately and objeCtively as  Sports Editor  Marty Strasen  Controller  Todd Hardiman  
poss1ble. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the majonty of the Ed1tonal Board  Accent Editor  Beth Healy  Graphrc Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Commentanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the~r authors. Column  Saint Mary's Editor  Sandy Cerimele  
SIJaCe IS ava1lable to all members of the community and the free express1on of vary1ng  Photo Editor  Michael Moran  
op1n1ons on campus. through letters. 15 encouraged.  Founded November 3,1966  




Accent 

-
-
-
-
-
p:ge 12 

Elvis Costello Spike 
Spike's unusual cast of characters shows Elvis' incredible diversity. 
KEVIN WALSH 
accent writer 
I 
f you put all the characters on 
Elvis Costello's new album Spike in one room, you'd probably have a riot on your hands. At the very least, you'd have a roomful of weird people. 
You'd have the disillusioned enter­tainer of "This Town"; _Bentley and Craig, the two convicted murderers from "Let Him Dangle"; Veronica, a senile old lady; and a dead priest, now working as God's court jester in "God's Comic." (Not to mention a God who wonders if he "should have given the world to the monkeys.") 
The room would also contain a mail-order bride and her new hus­band; a husband who knows his wife is cheating on him; Miss MacBeth, an old witch who terrorizes little kids in a neighborhood; a British soldier questioning his duty in Ireland; and a little boy whose father is leaving. 
If you added in all the musicians who helped out on the album, includ­ing Paul McCartney, Chrissy Hynde, Roger McGuinn, and T-Bone Burnett, you'd have a really noisy room. 

So if this United Nations of a cast doesn't already clue you in to this, Spike is an incredible demonstration of Elvis's diversity. His now classic early work was straight ahead rock and roll, but Spike combines musical styles as diverse as Irish folk music, torch songs, swing-jazz, and plain old classic rock and pop. 
"Veronica," the single off the al­bum, is a good starting place for the next volume of the popular Elvis Costello's Greatest Hits. A solid, driving pop song, co-written and per­formed with McCartney, this song sports a great melodic line and tight harmonies. Other notable songs in­clude "This Town," another great song in the more pop vein; "Pads, Paws, and Claws," a psuedo­rockabilly workout; and the in­strumental "Stalin Malone." 
With Spike, Elvis Costello renews his artistic license and matures into all the promise that his early work hinted at. It is a cohesive, ambitious and mature work that ranks with the best he's ever done. 
Tuesday, February 28, 1989 
Roy Orbison Mystery Girl New release brings that classic Orbison sound into the Eighties. 

KEVIN WALSH 
accent writer 
T 
here's always been something essentially weird about Roy Or­bison. The black clothes, the sun­glasses, the cheesy toupee. The fact that Letterman could dress Larry "Bud" Melman up to look just like him. 
Then there's the ghostly voice and the heartbreaking songs. Anybody who saw the movie "Blue Velvet" will never forget the dark aura his song "In Dreams" created. 
In the grand traditions of great comeback albums, Mystery Girl takes Orbison's classic style, his sound and his voice and places them all in an Eighties context. This is not revivalism, it's an update. Even the song titles sound similar: "Blue Bayou" into "California Blue," "Dream Baby" into "Dream You," and "Only The Lonely" becomes "The Only One." 
Similarly, the music purposely mimics many of Orbison's old songs. There's the almost-spoken intro, the classic booming snare keeping the backbeat, and the woo-woo backing vocals. 
"In the Real World," is probably the most effective song on the album. With his voice shaking into the upper registers, he sings a genuinely beauti­ful and horribly sad song, including the line "In the real world! we must say real goodbyes." It really works well. 
The two songs which are drawing the most attention on the album are the ones written by Bono and Elvis Costello. Bono's "She's A Mystery To Me" is surprisingly Orbison-like, but the biblical imagery and sneaky hook reveal it as a U2 song. 
Elvis Costello, who owes a more obvious musical debt to Orbison, turns in "The Comedians," a story about a guy who is trapped at the top of a Ferris wheel while his girlfriend runs off with the operator. It has some great lyrics, including the chorus line "I should be drinking a toast to absent friends instead of these comedians." 
Mystery Girl proves Orbison to be a real, vital talent and it's a real tragedy that his untimely death cut a promising comeback short. 


~~~~~~~-~ovie ~eview 
Some good points, but 'True Believer' gets a fair rating 

Calvin and Hobbes 

13\JT 1\S FO!!:TiflfP GI'JE MEt>.. LOOK, 1\ SA'lS 
Win\ t.IG\\1 

8R£AK. 1\\1':> 
R\Gf\1 Ot-1 n-It. 
E~\1/>,L 

I~ UKE 
BJX, "PARI OF 

Ell.1lt-IG A 
A W\\O\.f.S0\1\t, IT'S G:X)t) 
mAMI~S. '20 
N\lTRinC\lS,

&:i«L cr 
R:lR ~OIJ. 
Bf>.LANC.ED

MILk DUDS. 
BREAK~I\ST ." 

DAN RUSSELL 
accent writer 

W
ell, February is almost behind us, and if you haven't been thinking about JPW, the Bengal Bouts, that tough midterm coming up or packing your bags for Padre, then you might be someone who remembers that there are still new movies out there to be seen. 
The latest big release is en­titled "True Believer." In it, James Woods stars as Eddie Dodd, a college activist­turned-lawyer, renowned for taking on and winning the cases nobody else wanted. But with time, a change in philosophy and the smell of money, Dodd has since con­verted to defending guilty drug dealers for handsome cash rewards. 
Bill Watterson Enter Roger Barron (Robert Downey Jr.), a
A~D nt£'( 

~ov ~c:w.~ 't·m~ 
yuppie fresh out of Michigan
'(OJ S\1~'0: L\1(£ Ei>.TING HIJt. 
sw:~w t>. Gil~ 

Law School. He was recruited
TI-I~T? ~\lAM It{ 
GAAP£FRU\TS, by all the big Wall Street ACoWl 
DEfiOENC'I, 
l'lL BE\. 
firms but chose instead to 
BRA!'\ M\lFH~S ... ..._,,____..-1 
work for Dodd, the man he idolized throughout law school, in defending those who might otherwise go un­defended. In little time, unfor­tunately, he realizes that his hero has degenerated into a pot smoking, drug dealing defense lawyer, and it ap­pears the honeymoon is over. 
With impeccable timing, though, a case just like the Eddie Dodd cases of old comes along, and Barron con­vinces Dodd to take it. Of course it's a murder case, and as with most murder trial movies, it is long, compl­icated, and features a surprise "whodunnit" ending. Crediting Barron for making him see the light, Dodd returns to his old self, and the two become good friends. 
James Woods is energetic, but Robert Downey is im­memorable. The writing is a bit dry--a fair dose of gore, no sex, half-hearted attempts at comedy, and some neat black-and-white flashback scenes--but it will keep you going if you give it your full attention. 
Directed by newcomer Joseph Ruben, this film isn't bad (in fact, I highly recom­mend it for you murder mys­tery fans), it just doesn't reach out and grab you like the many stellar productions released over these past few months. So if you see it, take a date, sit in the back, and don't order any popcorn. About an hour into this one, you'll be enjoying yourself one way or another .... 
Tuesday, February 28, 1989 The Observer page 13 
-




Holtz looking toward next year with skeptical eye 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­-Notre Dame's 1988 national championship football season officially will be over in about two weeks. 
"We're going to start spring practice March 15, have a ban­quet on the 17th and then the rest of it'll be history," Coach Lou Holtz said. "The rest of it'll be for the scrapbooks. We will never talk about it or think about it after that. 
"We're not going to even try to remain there. We're back on the ground and all we're going to try to do is fight for that sucker just like we did last year. That's the only way I know how to do it." 
Although the Aug. 31 season­opening Kickoff Classic is six months off, Holtz and Virginia coach George Welsh held a news conference Monday to start the hype for what is ex­pected to be the first sellout in the game's seven-year history (the first Kickoff Classic be­tween Nebraska and Penn State in 1983 drew 71,123 spec­tators to 76,891-seat Giants Stadium). 
Notre Dame conceivably could start out ranked No. 1 again, but Holtz, like every co­ach before him, would rather be No. 1 on Jan. 1 than Sept. 1. 
"I love to come to press con­ferences because then I find out what's going on at Notre Dame," Holtz said with a chuckle, fingering a preseason prospectus that said, "Veteran '89 Notre Dame grid squad ready to defend '88 national crown." 
"You'd think that we owned a paper factory up there," 

Lou Holtz 

Holtz said. "I've never seen so much information and facts put out by one university. 
"The SID's office can always be very optimistic and I hate to question the validity of all this work and this information, but we don't plan on defending anything. We plan on starting out this year and fighting for it just like we did last year. 
"To think we're going to be a good football team because we have some people coming back (46 of 58 lettermen, in­cluding 16 starters) would be as asinine and ridiculous as it was to feel that we were going to be a poor football team last year because we didn't have anybody coming back. 
"We've already lost an out­standing linebacker, Michael Stonebreaker (injured in an au­tomobile accident); (tailback) Tony Brooks will probably not participate in spring practice and who knows what else will happen as you go along. 
"We know we're going to have a difficult road ahead of us, and if something were to happen to (quarterback) Tony Rice, people have no idea how severe a predicament we would be in." 
Holtz also predicted that Vir­ginia would be in the preseason Top Ten, although that prob­ably is far-fetched since the Cavaliers are not a traditional power. 
They do return 18 starters from last year's 7-4 team that won its last five games and finished second in the Atlantic Coast Conference for the second year in a row. 
"We should have a good foot­ball team," Welsh said. "I'm not going to downplay things for us. " 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center. accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is
Classifieds ­3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 2B7·40B2 TyplngWordprocesslng  LOST:FUGI CAMERA WITH FLASH¢FILM My camera was lost at my party on Navarre St. Friday night. Please return it and if you absolutely have to have ~. please return the the film. No questions will be asked. Please return it!!! Call Tim at 2BB·0426 or 288-5423 LOST:FUGI CAMERA WITH FLASH¢ FILM  FOR SALE Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps tor $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ex­1.7316  I NEED A RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA OR NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK-WILL SHARE EXPENSES-FLEXIBLE DATES. CALL AOSI AT X3567. Experienced guitarisWocalist seeks to join classic rock band. Call Glenn at X3083.  NO TOASTMASTERS!! No meeting this week. The next meeting will be after break, 3'1 5. 223 Hayes-Healy 7:30. ALL WELCOME!! Michelle H. Best of luck w~h your inter­view in NY.C. I'll be thinking about you. By the way, I've been known to keep women awake 5 seconds.  AGNES OF GOD WED & THURS MAR 1 & 2 BPM WASHINGTON HALL LAB THEATER Free Rest up Rest up Rest up  
237-1949 TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 2n-7406  MISSING: BRIGHT RED BACKPACK FROM SOUTH DINING HALL WITH KEYS AND IMPORTANT CLASS NOTES. PLEASE CALL Ann x4217  79 MIDGET EXC. COND. LOW MILAGE 294·5699 Microwave & Cabinet-Litton II Genera· tion, 2 memories, probe, rack cookbook. Like new-$200. Large cabinet-Excellent  I need ride to Minneapolis-St. Paul for break. I can leave after noon on Fri. March 3. Brad 3170 TOGETHER NOT APARTheid t-shlrts Will be on sale In the dining halls  Love Always, Chip HAPPY BIRTHDAY SUZANNE POCHI Everyone, be sure to wtsh Sue  its coming ... St. Pat's Day Under the Dome!!! Rest up Rest up  
condition. $100. Phone 234-4263 after  Mon., Tues. LUNCH & Wed. DINNER  a Happy Birthday!  Rest up  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  CALL  LOST--Taupe Liz Claiborne keychain-nif found PLEASE, PLEASE call x2297.  12 noon MIAMI!! For Sale;round trip; South Bend·  Need ride to MPLSSt. PAUL for Spring  Have a great day,Suel  its coming ... St. Pat's Day Under the Dome!!!  
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks lor CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks' Cash or Credit available' PANDORA'S BOOK BOB Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233·2342 MARCHANT RESUMES Cover letters. life updating free consultations appoint­ LOST: BLACK TAFFETA BOW AT OIL· LON FORMAL ON 2-25. IF YOU ARE THE GIRL WHO HAS IT, PLEASE CALL 2B4·5085. ................................................................ I FQR RENT I  Miami;:Y.l-3'1 2;call Susan 272· 0389.Must Sell. ································································I TICKETS 4 Louisville GA's for sale.272-6306  Break. Please call 284-4430. AIDE needed to WASHINGTON D.C. on Spring Break. Please call Peggy at x1264. CAMPUS PAINTERS INC. NOW HIRING NOVICE AND EXPERIENCED PAINTERS FOR SUMMER HOUSE PAINTING IN CHICAGO NORTH SUB·  happy 22nd, lisa marie! have a beautiful day! love, marita Way to go Livorsi! What a "relier -Christina Some balls are held for charity, and some for fancy dress, but the one whose name is Z BALLS He's the one that I like best!  Gina Grando~o Images of you in my mind Feelings you don't have in kind One day I hope you might But now, I cry myself awake each night  
ment only (219) 2B7-7343 SHARE THE EXCITEMENT! Be part of Affluent Caucasian Awaren9ss Week! Beginning February 30, 19B9 at Aryan Hills Country Club. Want more info? Dial 555-IZOD.  FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N eREAK· FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVITIES. RESERVE NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. 616-471-5711.  NEED 3 LVILLE GA'S x1063 Help!l need 3 Louisville GA's and 2 stu· dent tix. Call Mike at 4075 Need 1 LOUISVILLE GA Call Paul 3767  UABS. CALL TO ARRANGE AN INTER­VIEW 312-251-0151. MAILING ADDRESS IS: 2901 CENTRAL STREET­-EVANSTON, ll 60201 Counselors for MR camp, 20 miles NW Orlando June 3-Aug. 12, Camp Thunder­ Then again, maybe not. Remember, it is Z BALLS WEEK so call him at 3410 and tell him he sucks at lntellevision Baseball. To the cute red headed girl who rode the bus to and from the mall on Fri: I'd love to meet you for an evening of romance  Need rider to Texas for Easter leaving 17th, back on 27th call Jon 272-7496 ag·l just wanted to say hi too. -THE BR  
PARROT HEADS FOREVER  HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D.  I have two stud. tix for Louisville game. Best offer by midnight Thurs. Call Kevin  bird 909 East Welch Road, Apopka, FL 32712 (407)B89-80BB  Charlie Brown  David D.· Let us know when you get the movie NASTY DOCTORS!!!!!  
\ LOST/FOUND I LOST: SOMEONE TOOK MY RED CW SKI JACKET FROM THE CCE SATUR­DAY NIGHT. PLEASE RETURN IT SINCE IT'S MY ONLY JACKET AND I CAN'T AFFORD A NEW ONE I'LL AS­SUME IT WAS AN HONEST MISTAKE. I'LL EVEN GIVE A REWARD FOR THE JACKET OR INFORMATION WHERE IT IS! PLEASE CALL SEAN-47B4. LOST·BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­MILITARY FORMAL!! call BRET x1389 A little boy Is devastated. We lost our small white dog with Ohio tags. With­out a special diet, she'll become very  683-888&-277 -3097. FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BEDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.272~306 L...--W_A_N_TE_D___.l NO Law school atudants to be reps for Kaplan-SMH ear Review courses. Earn tree bar review course plus SS's. Call 272-4135. Ask lor Sue. AIDE NEEDED EAST ON 1·80 TOWARD NYC, PREFERABLY TO AREA OF WILKES-BARRE PA OR ELSE ANYONE HEADING TOWARDS PHILADELPHIA OR SYAACUS5eiNGHAMTON NY AREA PLEASE CALL NEIL AT X4051  x3316. DESPARATE, I need 2 Grad Tix. will pay $ please call nm 2B7. 7607 (.___PE_RSO_N_AL_S__, 3 seconds away and you'd better not have a headache!!l!!lll LAW SCHOOL: Start your ear Review earty. Kaplan-SMH reviews to many states available here In South Bend. Transfer back home tor summer. Dis· counts tor Kaplan LSAT alumni. Reserve before March 2 Call272-4135. Ask tor Sue.  $5 DOZENS $5 DOZENS $5 DOZENS BUY A DOZEN OF SELECTED ROSES FOR $5 AT IRISH GARDENS! FORGOT YOUR VALENTINE?BUY HIMHER A DOZEN OF SELECTED ROSES FOR ONLY $5 AT IRISH GAR­DENS The Rush is ON Senior Formal 19B9 Bid Sales Get Your Date Now 14 Days left until Bid Sales Seniors Seniors Seniors 14 Days is All You Got To Get THAT Date Senior For· mal B9 Bid Sales NEED RIDE TO & FROM COL, OH FOR BREAK.WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL KATHY x3714  JENNY:So you called for counceline tape 21; well you don't look like a homosexual male to me, but if you are, you're the cutest one I've met I'm glad you decided to take the chance too. Had a great lime Fri, would love to do it again soon. PAT IN DIRE NEED FOR RIDE TO ST. LOUIS AREA. WILL PAY DEARLY. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURS. TOM x42B7 HEY YA MESS WITH AG YA MESS WITH ME -T.BASS Aide needed from Pittsburgh to NO Sun· day 3'1 2. Will share expenses. Call Karen x4121. DESPERATELY Need Ride to Chicago,  I am. I am. I am SUPERCHARGE! And I can jump anyone!! Hey MICKEY!!!! Walch those California girls... You don't know what they'll do lo an innocent boy like youlllll Yo! Give Little Pete a ride to PHILLY for break! x4016 AIDE NEEDED TO ROCHESTER, NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK Call John at 2290 Ride Needed TO Rochester New York for Spring Break Call John at 2290. HAPPY BIRTHDAY MATT K. LOVE, THE ZONKER  
Ill. Sizeable reward. Please call 234­ SUMMER JOBS  Milwaukee,  Madison.  or Appleton  For  
1814. LOST 2 KEYS on a pink keychain at Morrissey SYR. If found please call X2B53.  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT FISHERIES. Earn $6000Week in can· nery, $8,D00-12.000¢ for two months on fishing vessel. Over B,OOO openings. No experience necessary. MALE OR FEMALE For 52-page employment book·  ALL LANIVNATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373  DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE to Columbu s, OH (or ANYWHERE near there) for spr. break. Is there somebody out there who doesn't mind having some body else pay for the gas? call Mike at 209B, PLEASE  Spring Break. Will Share Expenses. Nicole x487 4 LOUD,semiskilled gu~arist seeks similar drummer,bassist to form VU­oishAEMishHuskerDuish band.NO  MICHAEL· Thanks For Making Our V-Day & Anniv. So Special. Good Luck On Your Tests This Week. And Congrats On Your Job-I'M So Proud Of You!! I Love You, Steph  
LOST: Gold Chain of much sentimental value somewhere between Siegfried and O'Shag. $Reward$ x·4802 LOSTIII one pair of black earmuffs on 2-21 somewhere in the vicinity of LaFor­tune camp. lab. Please call Dawn at 1292 if found FOUND: Gold-rimmed glasses In hard black plastic case. Found In rm. 204 Nleuwland Science Hall on :MI. Call x3781 and see again! FOUND:SCARF IN EIGHT FLOOR SEM­ let. send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box 8400B. Seattle, WA 98124. 30 day, un­conditional, 100% money back guarantee $3500AY PROCESSING PHONE OR· DERS PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPE· RIENCE NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDAeLE) 315-733-6063 EXTEN­SION P·2382·H. CRUISESHIP JOBS $300 TO $900 WEEKLY CALL LINDA 9-5 WEEKDAYS 1·612· 456-0884 EXT. C-40BO  OVERSEAS JOeS.$900-2000 mo. Summer,Yr.round.AII Countrtes,AII fields. Free Into. Write IJC, PO ex 52· IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. hlag SUMMER JOBS ALL LAN!VNATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL HICI0-343-8373  THE COUNTDOWN IS! FIVE DAYS LEFT Tl DAYTONA! Girls of PE unite In anticipation o spandlng the week with that stud Mike York! Kitty and Rita will get some..... . SUN! love your sexy friend Mary GOING TO PITTSBURGH? HELP! TWO AIDES NEEDED WILL PAY EXP. CALL LIZ AT 4387  METAL. Call Marsh x1749 ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS SEEKING SUMMER EMPLOYMENT IN THE CHICAGO AREA Domer Temporaries Inc, is a new tern porary employment agency offering Notre Dame students job opportunit ies with Notre Dame alumni in the Chicago area. Students are guaranteed good jobs at quality rates. If interested, please call Domer Temporaries 283-2320 WANTED: New NFL team to root for due  BC GRACE Thanks For Wisking Us Away And Taking Care Of Us. You Made Our Night. Love, Erica, Kelly, Jan & Nicole P.S. You Looked GREAT!! YUGUVIE J. MALMSTEEN, I'D Like To Thank You In Person For The Rose And Chocolates, So How About Calling Me? Lisa Totten TO MOLLIE, BRIDGET, KATIE, MEREDITH ANN, GEN, AMY,  
INAR ROOM OF LIBRARY ON THURSDAY FEB 23. CALL x1900 TO  HELP! Need ride to Buffalo lor break.  JUNIORS  to recent coaching change. Please call. ..  CHRISTIE, ANN, LIBBY LIANN & MARGY, THANKS A MIL FOR SATUA·  
CLAIM  Will share costs. Call Shawn at X2380.  Did you miss the JPW T-Shirts?  Tom L. x1076  DAY NIGHT. I HAD A BLAST!! Love,  
LOST-A MODERN, SILVER WATCH WITH BLUE TOPAZ FRIDAY NIGHT. COULD HAVE BEEN FOUND IN DILLON OR THE ELK'S CLUB. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JEN AT 2550. REWARD WILL BE GIVEN. IF YOU ATTENDED LAST FRIDAY'S SMC JUNIOR FORMAL AND WORE A GREY TWEED SPORTCOAT, PLEASE CHECK AND SEE IF YOU BROUGHT HOME THE RIGHT ONE. IF YOU BROUGHT HOME A HARRIS TWEED INSTEAD OF YOUR OAKMONT, CALL ME AT X2264 AND WE'LL TRADE.  HELP! I need a ride to Chicago-0-Hare. by 2:30p. Friday. Will help with gas. Please Call Patty X4179. RIDE NEEDED FOR TWO TO ROCHESTER NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL John (2290) or Molly (2729) Ride desperately needed to FORT LAUDERDALE or SE FL. will help wtcost & driving. leave after noon Fri 31.3 return Sal or Sun Tim 1899 PARROT HEADS FOREVER  ADOPTION Loving,secure married couple unable to conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le· gal, medical exp. Pis call collect Chris & Susan, 70:¥.!76-9751 Completely con· fidential. ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-Bn· 3574 Ride needed to BalillC area over Easter Break Prefer leaving earljl'teturning late Call Rob x1159 PLEASE, I desperately need a ride to Central PA for Break. Will share toll and gas$$$. call Guy at x3BB3.  Call Mike (x11B5) or James (x3265) to order yours today--only $6 to benefit St. Hedwig's! NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP T·SHIRTS T·SHIRTS T-SHIRTS PERFECT FOR SPRING BREAK!!! MON,TUES,WED AT DINNING HALLS A funny thing happened on the way to Denny's Friday... "Where is my car? I thought I left it by the tree." What would I have done w~hout you? Thanks for keeping me company. Let"s take your car next. SUMMER INTERNSHIP AVAILABLE For a NO or SMC Junior accounting major in the D.C. area. If interested contact Mary (x1343) as soon as possible.  Roger S. x1 070 FRANKLIN: Think carefully and respond by tomorrow. Who had a better time? Ae· member, think carefully ... D ································································ MELEAH-THANKS FOR A WONDER· FUL JPW. THE ROOM, THE FLOWERS & YOUR FRIENDS WERE ALL SUPER. HAVE A GREAT BREAK. "Ladies, Ladies." 1 need a date to the senior formal. I am a good looking Don Johnson type of a guy. I will pay all expenses and more!t Mark Lieber II 1937 Strike Two  Kerry Have You Ever Experienced Pain And Discomfort W~h HEALS? Had Shooting Pains? Experienced Numbness? Developed Bad Posture? 4 Out Of 5 Doc· tors Recommend Sw~ching To Flats ... Or Running W~h BOOTIES! MARYA, HAPPY 20TH!! LOVE, MOM AND DAD PARROT HEADS FOREVER RIDE NEEDED! To ROCHESTER, Buf­falo, Syracuse March 2, or to Pittsburgh March 2 or 3. Pay$$. Call Mary 284-5128 or 5117.  ·~.  

..... 
page 14 The Observer 
-
************************************** 
* ~ C*H*R*I*S*T*M*A*S E * i* In APRIL i* i* 1 9 8 9 i* 
* *
! South Bend, Indiana ! 
* * 
* * 
* *
* *
* *
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* *
! What Is It? ;
-
* *
* *
! CHRISTMAS in APRIL is a one-day work session during which the ~ ~ homes of the needy, elderly, and handicapped residents of the Northeast : : Neighborhood will be renovated and repaired by teams of volunteers. The South ~ ~*· Bend Community has joined forces with the students, faculty, and staff of the ~ 
* University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's to make Christmas in April a reality for # ~ some Northeast Neighborhood homeowners. It will be followed by a picnic. ~ 
* * 
* * 
: t 
* * 
: (i~ ~ 
: Who can volunteer for tilt~ ! 
* *
i CHRISTMAS in APRIL? ~ 
* *
! Anyone eighteen or older can be a Christmas in April volunteer. : : Volunteers come from churches, businesses, schools, community service ~ ! organizations, corporations, associations, and interested individuals. They t : represent all professions. Volunteers need not be skilled at home repairs, but ! * !*
! those who are will be well placed. * * 
* * 
* * 
* * * ' *
~ 1What repairs are done? ~ 
* *
! Each scope of repairs is tailored to the need of the individual participant and !! the capacity of the volunteers recruited for the Christmas in April. It is ! ! anticipated that roofs, weatherization, plumbing, heating, and electrical needs ! ! will be addressed. Yards will receive a Spring cleaning and, if needed, the ! ! painting of home exteriors to give a new face to the neighborhood. ! * * 
* * 
* * 
* *
i ~What can vou do???1r ~ 
* *
* *
! $All we ask is a donation of one day of your time and energy. Any special : ; talents you have, such as carpentry, or electrical or plumbing skills, would be ~ *! greatly appreciated... : * ~ $ Enthusiasm, thought, is the most important contribution you can make. ! ! Anyone and everyone can handle a paintbrush! ! ! $.We are also in the process of seeking contributions of materials and ~ ~ supplies, as well as monetary donations to cover our necessary expenses. ! * * 
* * 
* *
£ $There will sign up opportunities within your ball. For more information £ 
!contactyour hall president or community service commissioner! ! 
* * 
*· * 
*

*•*•*•*•*•*•*•*•*•*•*******•*•*•*•*•*•*•*•** 
~~-­
~------------------­
Tuesday, February 28, 1989 The Observer page 15 

AP Photo 

Ex-Miami Hurricanes head coach Jimmy Johnson had ever had, Tom Landry. A related story ap­will "go pro" next season to coach the Dallas pears at right and Greg Guffey bemoans the us­Cowboys, replacing the only coach the Cowboys hering In of a new era In Big D on the back page. 

is now taking applications for 
GENERAL MANAGER 
Sophomores and juniors are welcome to apply 
Not just a resume builder, it's the best business experience on campus 
Oversee the three student-run businesses­Adworks, the Cellar, and Irish Gardens -and a $160,000 budget 
Applications & job descriptions available at the Secretary's desk (2nd floor LaFortune). 
Completed applications due March 3 at 5 pm. 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN  
EDUCATION IN  
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS  
A program arranged by Dean Nathan 0. Hatch and the Faculty of The College of Arts and Letters 6:30P.M., Tuesday, February 28, 1989-Engineering (Cushing) Auditorium  
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN  





Cowboys, Landry bid tearful farewell 
Associated Press 
one in the team's history. His teams won two NFL champion­IRVING, Tx.--Tom Landry ships and set a league-record tearfully bid farewell to the of 20 consecutive winningDallas Cowboys Monday, seasons. The team went 3-13 saying he loved them and as­last year, worst in the NFL, but king them to give their best for Landry had hoped to eventu­new coach Jimmy Johnson. ally take them to another Super 
Bowl, the Cowboys' sixth. 
"It was hard to keep your emotions under control," said Landry cleaned out his desk a red-eyed Landry afterward. on Sunday, making room for "I tried to tell them that this Johnson, who also said goodbye crisis will pass, that you have to a football team Monday, the to keep moving forward." University of Miami Hur­
ricanes. He coached at Miami 
The 64-year-old Landry five seasons, leading them to choked up and couldn't finish the national championship in his speech to the players as­1987. sembled in the lecture hall. ­
"It was one of the most dif­Johnson, a college roommate ficult things I've had to do," and football teammate of new Landry said. "It was hard owner Jerry Jones on the un­saying goodbye to the beaten 1964 Arkansas Razor­players." backs, will meet the Cowboys
Landry spent 29 years as the on Tuesday. He has scheduled Cowboys' head coach, the only a 1 p.m. press conference: 

ND women swimmers 
By MARY GARINO "There are different grades Sports Writer of excellence, and to get both time and place is ideal," Welsh 
Sophomore Becky Wood said. grabbed two victories for the The performances of Wood, women's swim team and Tri, Moston and two freshmen, helped give the Irish a fifth Kathy McKinney and Jackie place finish at the Eastern In­Jones, are a good sign for the tercollegiate Championships future, according to Welsh. The , over the weekend. sophomore class especially 
West Virginia, the host team, turned in a very good meet per­captured first place from formance as it dominated the among the ten teams compet­point scoring for the Irish. ing with 570.5 points, a slim Welsh also pointed out that margin over second place the diving team competed well Duke. Notre Dame totaled 405 during the championships. points. Three of the divers earned 
Wood set two University places in the championship records and swam her best finals, Kay Richter in the one­times ever as she won both the meter event, and Allison Baker 100 and 200-yard breaststroke and Jenny Kipp, both in the races. Two of her classmates, three-meter event. Ami Tri and Christy Moston, "Their performances helped also swam well for the Irish. to demonstrate that we are a Until the last night of competi­championship team in the tion, Tri was among the top 10 diving field," Welsh said. scorers in the meet. This was the last meet for the 
Coach Tim Welsh noted that Irish women's team, and the ~ Wood has improved with every seniors on the team finished£ meet, and her victories com­their Notre Dame swimming ..:0 bined with the record-setting careers with strong meets. The 
times made her performance co-capitans, Tracy Johnson and 
especially outstanding Kelly Quinn, helped the 200­yard medley relay team to a second place finish on the first event of the championships. Johnson later also placed third in the 50-yard freestyle race. 
Overall, Coach Welsh was satisfied with what he called a "solid, dependable perfor­mance." Notre Dame had gone into the meet thinking that their swimmers would be in the middle of the ten teams, and a fifth place finish did nothing to dispute that. The Irish found out that they could be compet­itive with some very strong teams. 
"We were less than 40 points from fourth place, and about 60 points from third," Welsh pointed out. "We also had some very good races between Duke, the second place team, and Notre Dame." 
The women's swim team will take a break for a while and then resume practice after spring break with a training program. They will also look forward to next year and hope to improve on their final record for 1988-89 of 6-6. 

---------~----~-------­
Tuesday, February 28, 1989 page 16 
Irish women gain split over weekend 
AP Photo 
tal to boxing" by "stealing" Tyson from Cayton. Cayton is asking the New York State Athletic Com­mission to fine King and order him to stop inter­fering with Tyson. 
Gelfman explained that •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.. 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
A battered and bruised wo­men's tennis team came within a game of upsetting Miami of Ohio this weekend, but Notre Dame's makeshift line-up could not achieve the victory. 
Mter decisively downing Il­linois 7-2 on Saturday, the Irish fell to the Redskins of Miami 5-4 in a match charged with emotion. Notre Dame, marred with injuries, had to readjust the roster halfway through the meet. 
Number four singles player, Kristy Doran, succumbed mid­match to a knee ailment that

-
left her struggling to walk in the third set of her match. Doran had won the first set 7-5 when the impairment began to hamper her performance. By the third set, she could hardly reach the ball and was forced to default. 
That left the Irish at 3-3 after the singles competition and with a position to fill at number two doubles. Resa Kelly com­bined with Doran's regular partner, Katie Clark, but the 

-tandem lost 6-2, 7-5. The top pair of CeCe Cahill and Tracy Barton won their match, set­ting the stage for the deciding contest at the number three spot. 
Playing at number three were Cathy Bradshaw and Kim Pacella. Pacella had the flu and sat out of the singles round, but felt strong enough for the doubles and wanted to make 
her contribution. The duo lost the first set 3-6, but came back with a 6-4 score in the second to split sets. In the third, Brad­shaw and Pacella were serving for the match and the meet, but could not seal the victory and lost 5-7. 
Despite the disappointing loss, Irish head coach Michele Gelfman had nothing but praise for her 2-3 squad, which lost to Miami 8-1 last year. 
"Every year we've gotten closer and closer and this year we were really ready to take it," said Gelfman. "The girls played their hearts out. At the end, we had Kim Pacella diving into the net going after balls. I can't ask for much more than that. 
"It was down to the wire and I really thought we had them. There were at least twelve deuces in the last game but we couldn't pull out the victory. With a full line-up, we had a legitimate shot." 
Doran was dominating her match when her knee, injured last week, began to wear from 


Fencing 
continued from page 20 
The women's team was lead by senior captain Janice Hynes (5-0) and freshman Tara Kelly (7-0). The freshmen duo of Heidi Piper (4-1) and Mary Westrick (6-2) also had good meets. Lynn Kadri finished at 7-4, while seniors Kristin Kralicek (6-2) and Brenda Leiser (2-2) had respectable finishes. 
This past weekend's action finishes out the regular season for the Irish fencing teams. 

Press herefor a great



data processingcareer. 
The right time.The right place. State Farm is hiring. 
If you're a senior with a data processing, computer science or math background, there may be a very special career opportunity waiting for you in one of the largest corporate data proce~­ing facilities in the country. 
There are actuarial and audit­ing jobs open, too. 
STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES. Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
the constant pounding it was 
taking on the court. 
"Kristy would have won if she was healthy, but she couldn't even walk, much less run, by the end of the match," Gelfman commented. 
Saturday's meet against Illi­nois was a much different story as the Irish trounced the Illini. Notre Dame lost to them by an identical 7-2 score last year. 
"I think that meet demonstrates the tremendous strides we've made since last year," said Gelfman. "Even Mike Tyson, shown here pummelling Frank Bruno with our young team of mostly Saturday night, is in the middle of more litigation. sophomores and freshmen, we His ex-manager Bill Cayton has charged Tyson's had more depth than they did.'' latest mentor, Don , with "conduct detrimen-
Gelfman was especially pleased that the Irish, after winning the singles 4-2, swept the doubles. 
"That was exactly what I was hoping for," Gelfman com­mented. "We were stronger at the top than them, but we proved our all-around strength in the doubles. Right now we know our potential and we realize that the wins will come." 

Blue Chip. Green light. State Farm is one of America's leading insurance companies. Through innovative marketing and a proud service tradition it has become the nation's leading auto and homeowner's insurer; and one of the top life insurance companies in the country. 
You'll receive expert training. You'll work on state-of-the-art 
data processing equipment You'll go as far and as fast as you can. You couldn't have a more solid 
base to build a career on. Contact your Placement Director. Our recruiter will be on campus March 14 & 15 
Or write Ron Prewitt, Assistant Director; Home Office Personnel Relations, One State Farm Plaza, Bloomington, Illinois 61701. 


r-------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, February 28, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Bookstore Basketball registration and signups are Wednesday, March 15, in Room 002 in the basement of LaFortune from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. There is a $5 registration fee. Referees are needed and will be paid $5 per game. Scorekeepers are also needed. Any questions should be directed to Nancy at x3487 or Julie at x2667. -The Observer 
Men's Bookstore Basketball late signups are today from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m: and Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the SUB office on the second floor of LaFortune. The registration fee is $5. Any questions should be directed to Mike Manning at 283-3305. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 in Room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. All race team members should attend. -The Observer 
Cross-country ski equipment rental checkouts are from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays and also 12 noon to 1 p.m. on Saturdays. Rates are $3 overnight, $5 for two nights and $6 for three nights at the Burke Memorial Golf Course pro shop. -The Obser­ver 
The Off-Campus lacrosse team will practice tonight at 10 at the Loftus Center. Any questions should be directed to Bill at 287-5758. -The Observer 
The NO Rugby Club will hold a meeting today at 5 p.m. in the Haggar Auditorium for anyone interested in playing this spring. No skill or playing experience is nec­essary. Any questions should be directed.to Jim at x1776. 
-The Observer 
Happy 
21st 

Birthday! 

FOR BOYS 5 GLEN LANE 

MAMARONECK, N.Y. 10543 914·381-5983 

STAFFING NOW FOR THE 1989 SUMMER SEASON 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER COUNSELORS 
WHO LOVE CHILDREN AND HAVE STRONC SKILLS AND ABILITY TO TEACH ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: 
Archerv, Arts & crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, computer Science, Dance, Dramatics, Field Hockey, General counselors, Guitar, Gymnastics, Lacrosse, Photography, Piano, Pioneering, Riding, Rocketry, Ropes course, Sailing, soccer, Softball, support Staff, Swimming, Tennis, Track, Volleyball, waterskiing, Weight Training, Windsurfing, Woodworking, Yearbook. 
FULL EIGHT WEEK SEASON DROP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW: 
TODAY and TOMORROW at La Fortune Student Union, Room 108, from 11:00 AM to 6:00 PM. 
~---------------------------------------------------------­



Camp Vega 
FOR GIRLS P.O. BOX 1771 DUXBURY, MA. 02332 617-934·6536 
page 17 

-
AP Photo

Arizona's Sean Rooks (left) defenas Stanford star 
Twenty poll by virtue of their narrow one-point Todd Llchti in a Pac-10 game played earlier this 
win over Duke Sunday and Oklahoma's loss to year. The Wildcats rose to the top of the AP Top Missouri. 
Arizona reluctantly takes top spot 

Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz.--When it comes to the top ranking in col­lege basketball, the first time around is best, says Arizona co­ach Lute Olson. 
Olson's Wildcats moved up a notch to No. 1 this week after a 77-75 victory Sunday over No. 9 Duke in East Rutherford, N.J. it was Arizona's second time on top this year and fourth in the past two seasons. 
"I don't know that it will have much effect on us," Olson said Monday. "I think our players have been there, not just this year but, with most of them, a year ago. 
"We'd like to finish the total season ranked No. 1," he said. 
Arizona, 22-3, the fourth team 
~ 
~ 
• ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ 

~r==rr~~~~~~~=, 
~ 
iC 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
"?'

~~======~=============d 
1~-~1:, 1d1Znt 5overnrrtRnl: 
~~ 

Are you interested In helping to manage and account for $400,000? 
If you are a SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJOR who enjoys working with. 
money and people, STUDENT GOVERNMENT needs you as the 
Sludent Body Assistant Treasurer. 
-Student Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body Treasurer in disbursing funds for: 
Student Government Student Union Board Halls Clubs and Organizations 
This is in preparation for your becoming THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER the following year. 
-Applications are available in the Treasurer's office 2nd floor LaFortune between 12-4:00 pm. Due on Thursday, March 2 by 4:00 pm. 
-Any questions, contact Guy Weismantel at 239-7417. 
~~~ 
rs@J~@/t(~ 
to be honored as No. 1 this season, spent only one week on top the first time before an 82­80 loss to Oklahoma on Feb. 12. The Sooners then held the top rung for two weeks but dropped to fourth after a 97-84 loss Sat­urday at Missouri. 
Georgetown and Indiana moved up one spot each to second and third as no teams dropped from or broke into the Top Twenty. 
Duke held the top spot from the preseason through the first nine polls. Illinois replaced the Blue Devils for a week, fol­lowed by Oklahoma and then Arizona the first time around. 
Oklahoma's loss cleared the way for the Wildcats to regain the No. 1 ranking, and Sean El­liott made a 3-pointer and an­other oasket in the last 53 seconds as Arizona seized the opportunity against Duke. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. )MtC Call 239-6900 ~ 
Elliott had made only four of 19 shots before his 20-footer from the top of the key, but Ol­son said he had no doubt the 6-foot-8 senior would come through. 
Duke's Danny Ferry, who was guarding Elliott when the Arizona star sank the clutch 3­pointer, said after the game he expected to see the Wildcats regain the top spot. 
Olson, whose squad made the Final Four last season after a total of six weeks atop the poll, said he'd like to have seen the voters pick Georgetown, which received five first-place votes and 1,219 points to Arizona's 54 first-place votes and 1,305 points. 
He said was more concerned with a season-ending road trip Thursday at Washington State and UCLA this weekend. 
Tuesday, February 28, 1989
page 18 The Observer 
~-·----~ 

ND Water Polo Club win.s 
The Water Polo Club competed in their first qualified for competition. The meet was based tournament of the season last weekend at Notre strictly on invitation, only taking the top 15 Dame. Teams representing Iowa, Iowa State, marks in each event. Theresa Rice grabbed 5th Purdue, and Michigan State all competed in place in the mile with an impressive time of Notre Dame's first ever water polo tournament. 4:57, while teammate Lucy Nusralla placed 7th The Irish were victorious in all three of their in the half mile. In the 3000m, Terry Kibelstis matches in winning the tournament. finished 7th in one of her better performances 
of the indoor season. Last weekend, Notre Dame hosted an indoor 
meet at Mayo track where numerous varsity teams competed against Notre Dame's clubScheckenbach 
team. Eastern power Villanova along with Mar­quette, Loyola, and N.Y. Tech all were present Club Corner at the meet. Wendy Murray, who is co-president of the club, finished 5th in the 3000m, while Nusralla again ran well, taking 3rd in the BOOm. In the first match, Notre Dame crushed in­Lemanski crossed the finish line second in the 
Greg 

trastate rival Purdue 18-9 with the help of four 1000 and Shelia Stewart won the shotput with a talented freshmen, Nick Costello, Kelly Tam­toss of 10.26m. Sing, Andy Cavallari, and Kevin Kelleher. The second match was just as easy for the Irish as Men's Volleyball Club had a very diffi­they cruised to a 16-7 over Iowa. Senior cult time last week losing two of three matches. 
-
goaltender Sam Bailey performed outstand­Against Wheaton College, the Irish were very
ingly while also providing the leadership for successful winning 15-5, 11-15, 15-10, and 15-5. the Irish. Against Michigan State in the finals, Pat Burke, Sean Stack, and Mike Sheedy all Notre Dame drubbed the overmatched Spar­led Notre Dame with seven kills. tans 20-6 to complete a sweep in the tourney. Then the trouble began for the Irish as they
Later this semester, the club will be involved faced two of the top varsity teams in the in many tournaments including another one at country. In a match with top-ten ranked Notre Dame. Indiana-Purdue, Notre Dame was crushed 15-2, 15-3, 15-4. Later in the week, the Irish traveled ••• to Ohio State to face the Buckeyes. Again, Notre 
Women's Track Club traveled to the In­Dame could not end the varsity jinx by losing diana Intercollegiate Meet at Indiana Univer­15-1, 15-5, 15-2. During Spring Break, the club sity two weekends ago bringing six runners who will travel to Californiafor a few matches. 
Morrissey, Fisher in IH men's final 

Lewis reaches IH basketball finals 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 

The Rebels from Lewis Hall advanced to the finals of the women's Interhall basketball playoffs with an intense come­from-behind victory over Pasquerilla East on Monday night. 
The Rebels, who lost to P.E. on Sunday, have to beat Breen­Phillips tonight and again later in the week in order to win this double elimination tourna­ment, in which B.P. has yet to lose. 
It certainly didn't look good for Lewis in the first half. P.E. used its superior inside strength and balanced scoring to run out to a 19-9 halftime lead. P.E.'s zone defense frustrated the Rebels, who looked like they needed a miracle to come back in the second half. 
That miracle appeared off the bench early in the third quarter in the form of reserv.e guard Lori Ciccone. Ciccone h1t two three-pointers and was per­fect from the field in five at­tempts. Largely on the strength of Ciccone's shooting, Lewis closed the gap to 29-24 after three quarters. 
In the fourth quarter, Lewis's full court press really began to take its toll on Pasquerilla East, and when Ellen Mouch made two free throws with less than two minutes to play, Lewis had its first lead of the ball game at 33-31. P.E. countered quickly with a power layup by Colleen O'Connor. 
But Sue Lippa answered with an inside bucket for Lewis with one minute to play and the Rebels used good foul shooting to kill any hopes P.E. might have had of catching up. Lippa and Marcie Powell, who consis­tently burned P.E. with baseline jump shots, each had 13 points for Lewis, while Cic­cone finished with 12. 
Tonight's matchup against Breen-Phillips should be an even greater challenge for Lewis. The Blitz are even more talented than P.E. inside, and have not had a close game yet in the playoffs. 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
Mter battling their way through rigorous post-season action, Morrissey and Fisher meet tonight in the pit of the Joyce ACC to possibly deter­mine the men's Interhall baket­ball champion. 
A win tonight by Morrissey would lead to a second game Thursday night to decide the champion. 
Morrissey, after losing in the winner's bracket of the playoffs to Fisher, defeated Alumni 72-50 to gain the berth against the Green Wave, 10-1 going into the contest. 
An up-tempo style and strong defense key the Manor attack, led by returning starters Tom Veltz, Kevin Keyes, and Der­rick Johnson. Kevin Cade and Rod Culver also start for the Manor. 

"Our offense is strongest on the fastbreak and we'll need to prevent Todd Wagenblast and Paul Fulling from getting off the shots they want," said Veltz. 
Morissey went undefeated through the regular season last year before losing its first two playoff games. 
"We came out overconfident after going undefeated through the season and didn't play well at all," said Veltz. 
Fisher, relying on a stingy 
-

I I  MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL MARKETS CHICAGO REGIONAL OFFICE Is currently accepting applications for the position or FINANCIAL ANALYST within the Midwest Corporate Finance Department. In selecting applicants for the position of Financial Analyst, Merrill Lynch looks for a record of outstanding academic achievement, extracurricular involvement and work experience, and demonstrated leadership qualities. Analysts must be exceptionally articulate, able to write effectively, and able to work well with others. Although no particular academic majors are required, some background in accounting or statistics and familiarity with computers is helpful in indicating an ability to readily acquire the tools needed for quantitative analytic work. Upon completion of this two year program, Financial Analysts are generally able to enter a graduate business or law degree program at a leading university. Many return to Merrill Lynch after completing their advanced degrees to build their professional careers in investment banking. Becoming a Candidate: If you are interested in being considered for this program, send resume to: Jenny Grantham Merrill Lynch Capital Markets 5500 Sears Tower Chicago, IL 60606 Please respond before March 10, 1989.  :  

man-to-man defense, will look for a stellar all-around perfor­mance to come out with the win. 
"Playing in the pit will help Morrissey's fastbreak offense, so our biggest task will be to slow the tempo down," said Fisher's Sean Krieble. "We'll have to stay even on the boards and look for Todd and Paul to do the job during crunch time." 
John Piecyk and Collin Lahiff start for the Green Wave, along with Krieble, W agenblast, and 

California  Florida  Massachusetts  New Mexico  Texas  
Colorado  Illinois  Michigan  New York  Vermont  
Connecticut  Maine  New Hampshire  Pennsylvania  Virginia  
Dist. of Columbia  Maryland  New Jersey  Rhode Island  


STANLEY H. 


KAPIAN-SMH 
BAR REVIEW SERVICES 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135 
Tuesday, February 28, 1989 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
3:30p.m. Department of chemical engineering seminar "Ap­plication of Diffuse Reflectance IR to Characterize Carbon Supported Metal Clusters and Particles," M. Vannice, Penn­sylvania State University. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:15p.m. Cushwa Center for American Catholicism seminar "The Black Catholic Community Prior to the Civil War," Professor Cyprian Davis, St. Meinrad College. Hesburgh Li­brary Lounge. . 
4:30 p.m. Biological science lecture "Molecular Genetic Analyst of the Role of the Daughterless Gene Drosophila Sex Determination and Development," Claire Cronmiller, Princeton. Biological Science Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Notre Dame Communications and Theatre film "The Westerner," 1940, BW, 100 minutes, Annenburg Auditorium. 
9 p.m. Iceberg Debates Final in Library Auditorium. Zahm 
vs. Stanford on the issue of U.S. Foreign Aid and Human 
Rights improvements. 

LECTURE CIRCUIT 
7 p.m. Michael Harrington, co-chairman of the Democratic Socialists of America will lecture on "The Other America Revisited" today in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 7 p.m. Professor Donald Kommers, the Notre Dame Law School lectures "Missoui Law: A Challenge to Roe v. Wade" in Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. 

DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Yankee Bean Soup Thin Steak Sandwich Pasta Bar Baked Stuffed Turbot 


COMICS 
Bloom County 
Buzz McFiattop 





is C I G 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Mike Muldoon 



27 Notable time 29 Malt kiln 30 Elevator cage 33 Machinist's need 36 Receptacle for 
tools 37 Unclose, 
poetically 38 Introduction 39 Intellect 40 Fencing term 42 River to the 
Rhine 43 Storage box 44 Pair used for 
bending wire 45 Triangle side 46 "The--of 
Hiawatha" 47 Article for a Berliner 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

. 

48 Most of the atmosphere 51 Peggy of early TV 55 Upright stone slabs 57 Pot topper 58 Knievel 59 Small SA monkey 60 Twofold 62 Actress Ekberg 63 Architectural pier 64 Peak in Thessaly 65 Stupefy with alcohol 66 Actress Donna 67 Place for a mizzen royal 68 Endangered layer 
DOWN 
1 Go wrong 
2 Hackneyed 
1oSell tickets 32 Electrical units 50 Israeli port 
3 Slacken 
illegally 

33 Girasol 52 Dispatch boat 
4 Optical­
11 Galileo used one

instrument part 34Dies-53-Hall, 5 Letter 12 Blue-pencil 35 Opera glasses college in N.J. afterthoughts 13 Legumes 39 A certain derelict 54 Early writing 6 Chemical tablet
21 Actor Richard 40 "The Greatest" compound 
from San 

41 Spectacles of a 55 Antares or 
7 Carroll's Francisco 
sort Deneb "Through-" 
23 Hatch or cracker 

43 Ennui 56 Prong
8 Chessmaster preceder 
44 Await judgment 61 National
Mikhail 
26 Cool one's heels 

46 Dep. monogram
9 Aeschylus's 
28 Aries

"Seven­49 Partner of the 62 Three blood 
Thebes" 31 Copycat "Odyssey" groups 

ACROSS 
1 --throat, common ailment 6 Kelt of comics 10 Stairway unit 14 Dice throws 15 Catch fly balls 
16 Relinquish 17 Covers with hoarfrost 
18 Anatomical tissue 
191nter-­(among other things) 
20 Eagerly expecting 21 Lamprey 22 Rias 24 Tibetan ogre 25 Adults 

-----------------~~--~­



Sports 
Tuesday, February 28, 1989
page 20 
ND fencing teams finish year in style 
By CHRIS FILLIO Ironically, the Irish buries Il­linois 20-7 in a surprisingly easy 

Sports Writer 
matchup. 

The Notre Dame fencing The Irish men's foilists had teams wrapped up the regular a veritable field day. Four fen­season with a weekend sweep cers went undefeated for the 
at Detroit and East Lansing. weekend. Foil captain Joel 
On Friday the Irish were Clark was 4-0 as was juniorhosted by the team from Wayne Colin Gumbs, while All­State. The men's team went 19-American Yehuda Kovacs (7­8, with both foil and sabre win­0) and sophomore Phil Learyning while the epee team (6-0) were also perfect. dropped a close contest at 4-5. Seniors Ted Fay (7-1) and The women's team reinforced Todd Griffee (9-3) led the way their claim as a midwestern for the epee team. Freshman 
power by defeating WSU for the David Calderhead experienced 
second time this season by a his first disappointing outing at score of 10-6. The women's vic­5-6, while junior Mark Gugel tory was all the sweeter in light was 2-3. of the fact that WSU had re­As with the foil team, the turning to their lineup interna­Irish Sabre boasted a plethorationally ranked Loredana of undefeated individual Ranza. finishes. The sophomore
The Irish traveled to the Mic­sabremen headed the chargehigan State campus on Satur­with Leszek Nowosielski (6-0)day. Once again the men and David Kirby (5-0) havingcruised to easy victories over spotless records, as did seniors Purdue (24-3), Illinois (20-7) Tim Collins ( 2-0) , Jim Kowalski 
and host Michigan State (22-5). (3-0) and Steve Rawlings (4-0).The women's team likewise Freshman Henry Chou and polished off Eastern Michigan senior Bill Pietruusiak were (12-4) and Purdue (15-1). both 2-1, while Geoff Rossi went 

Last week, Head Coach Mike 3-2 for the weekend. 
DeCicco was quite skeptical Senior fencing manager Bob 
about the men's teams chances Keane made his debut on the 
against the Fighting Illini. strip and emerged victorious 
"You're not going to beat Il­two out of three times, with vic­
linois this time by a score of tories against both WSU and 
21-6,'' stated DeCicco in a team Purdue. 
meeting last Thursday.
big wins while sweeping meets at Detroit and squads. Chris Fllllo has the story at right. 
see FENCING, page 16
"Maybe 17-10, at best."
East Lansing over the weekend. The meets were 
SMC basketball beats Dearborn, makes NAIA tourney 
By HEATHER ATKINSON 8 at the Angela Athletic the clock and suffered the 15-Saint Mary's had four ment. Eight teams are invited 
Sports Writer Facility in the first round of the point loss. players in double figures. to the single-elimination tourney. Once again the bench con­Kathy Restovich led the team playoffs and the Belles are The Saint Mary's Basketball Saint Mary's dominated the tributed significantly to the with 16 points, followed by Jen seeded second. team defeated the University entire game against the Belles' victory. Every player Harte with 15, Julie Radke with 
of Michigan-Dearborn 91-76 at Wolves. for Saint Mary's got playing 13 and Amy Baranko with 10. 
"We all have • a positivehome Saturday and also time and each performed Baranko also pulled down 11 frame of mind going into thislearned that it had qualified for The Belles led 44-32 at the equally well. rebounds and Radke had 7 as­game," said Wood. "We willthe NAJA District 21 tourna­half and stretched the margain "We are really happy to be sists. 
need to improve our offense,ment by virtue of its 14-7 to as much as 68-43 at one point. in the position we are in," said get more shots off, sharpen our record. Michigan rallied to close the head coach Marvin Wood. "It Because of its successful 
passing and foul less in orderThe Belles take on Purdue gap toward the end of the was nice to finish our season season the team qualified for to beat them this time,
University-Calumet tonight at game, but was unable to beat with a victory at home." tbe NAIA District 21 tourna-though." 


Cowboys just won't be the same without Landry 
When I was one and didn't know any better, I wore But there won't be another chance for Landry be­his ability to win admirers. Having Jimmy Johnson a Chicago Bears sweatsuit. My parents bought it for cause last Saturday the pro football world really did as the coach of America's Team is like having Lyndon me, my dad being a diehard Chicago fan. pass him by. New Cowboy owner and Arkansas oil­LaRouche as President of the United States. 
When I could walk, talk and realize what was going man Jerry Jones fired Landry and named Miami men­Johnson leaves Miami just weeks before the start on, I switched to America's team--the Dallas Cow­tor Jimmy Johnson as the new coach. of spring practice, taking up to six assistants with boys. There seemed to be an art to picking a favorite At first I read with disbelief. How could you fire him and leaving a group of recruits searching for team, a team that you would stick by no matter what the only coach in the 29-year history of the organi­answers. Jones better hope those old friendship ties the tally in the win-loss column. zation? How could you justify Landry learning the are good for some loyalty at Dallas. 
With the Cowboys, the times were always good-­news from a reporter? almost too good. I could take Steve Pelleur throwing interceptions Dallas defensive end Jim Jeffcoat said it was a Dallas played in five Super Bowls during that span 
"sad day for the Dallas Cowboys." and won two . They introduced the concept of pro It may have been even a sadder day for all of pro
cheerleaders, gained imitators in the Atlanta Braves Greg football, especially the Dallas fans. The legend may and took pro football to another level. It wasn't hard be gone, but the memory won't soon fade. to be on that bandwagon. Guffey When Dallas is mentioned, the image of Landry 
solemnly pacing the sidelines will always remain.
Sports Writer
But the sign of a true fan is the one who hangs on L' Landry spoke softly, but commanded attention. He when times are tough and touchdowns are few and insisted on calling the plays, even with Roger far between. And that test has come during the past Staubach behind the center. few years. game after game, and I could accept the fact that Landry foresaw himself leading Dallas into the 
The magic suddenly came to an end, and the Cow­Randy White wasn't quite as graceful as he used to 1990s. There was never a doubt in his mind. Jones boys fell on hard times. To be more precise, they hit be. Under no conditions, though, could I accept left little doubt Saturday that he didn't want Landry rock bottom after recording the worst record in the Landry being dismissed in that manner. to end the 1980s. 
NFL last season. It seemed like time had passed by Landry was the Cowboys, and he was pro football. It may be time to put all of the Dallas memorabilia the Dallas Cowboys. The game just won't be the same without Landry, out for the next rummage sale. I just cannot foresee 
Somehow, though, I still had hope in this organi­clad in suit and hat, pacing the sidelines each game. myself cheering for Dallas with Johnson on the zation that had delivered so many last-second vic­Landry brought a certain style and class to the game, sidelines. It would seem so much like cheering for tories in the past. From those ashes a world champion a flair that made pro football lucky to have him. the Miami Hurricanes. would rise again because of one man in particular-­And now Jones has chosen to replace class and Suddenly, that Chicago Bear sweatsuit doesn't look Tom Landry. tradition with a college coach not exactly known for so bad. 





