
VOL. XXIII NO. 1 
SATURDAY, AUGUST 26, 1989 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ·. ;7 
ND and SMC welcome Class of 1993 
ND freshmen defy the odds 
By SARA MARLEY Senior Staff Reporter 
Morn than livn students applied for 
narh of tlw 1.820 spots in the 
Univnrsity of Notre Dame Class of 
I 993. 
A rneord 9.930 applicants vied for a 
place in thn class, which Director of 
Admissions Knvin Hooney ealled among 
tho strongest academically in the 
UnivPrsity's history. 
Minority nnrollmnnt in this freshman rlass is llw highnst Pvnr, 16 percent. This I'XC!'I'ds tlw pnwiously set goal of 15 pPrrPnt by 1991. \1inority rr~prPsPntation in last year's rlass was 13 pPrrPnt. 
Tlw LnivPrsity n•gisternd its third ronsi'I'Utiw yPar of rPeord applications, d1'spit1• a dPrlirw in intl'rPstnd students witrH'SSI'd by romparabiP universities nationwidn. 
Hoorwv ITI'dits P!Torts to inen~asn llw numlwr· of minoritiPs and women for tl11• risl'. 
".'\lmosl tlw Pntirl' I1JH9 applications inrrl'asl' ran bl' attributPd to incrnasnd minority applications." Hooney said. 
Tlw Univl'rsity's dPcision to inernasn tlw proportion of wonwn in thn student ~ody also uppPd tlw numbnr of applica­tions. 
Following that dPcision, applications jumpPd from about h,700 in 19H6 to 
see NO I page 4 

ORIENTATION 



EVENTS 
Notre Dame 
Saturday, August 26 

1, 2, 3, 4 p.m. Campus tours, leave from steps of the Administration Bldg. 7:30p.m. Welcome and introductory Ceremony, Joyce ACC 9p.m. Freshmen meet with their hall rectors and staff 9p.m. Parent orientation, Joyce ACC 
Sunday, August 27 
8:30a.m. 9:30a.m. 9:30a.m. 11 a.m. Noon 12:45-2 p.m. 2:15p.m. 2:15p.m. 7p.m. 9p.m. 

Introduction to academic program, Joyce ACC Continental breakfast, parents, Monogram Room of Joyce ACC General guidance sessions for freshmen Welcome mass, Joyce ACC Picnic lunch, Joyce ACC Introduction to student activities, Joyce ACC Foreign Study information meeting, Joyce ACC ROTC information meeting, Joyce ACC Special orientation for Freshmen women, Washington Hall Casino night and dance, Joyce ACC concourse 
Saint Mary's 
Saturday, August 26 

9, 10:30 a.m. Freshman pre-registration briefing, Regina Hall 9, 10:30 a.m. Campus tours, leaving from Haggar College Center 
10:30 a.m. Social survival session, Haggar Parlor 1-2:30 p.m. College open house, Angela Athletic Facility 2p.m. Financial aid briefing, Moreau Hall 6p.m. Camp S.M.C. picnic, Library Green 
Sunday, August 27 

9:30a.m. Opening of school liturgy, Angela Athletic Facility 11 a.m. Brunch 4p.m. Survival leader skits, Carroll Auditorium 

L----------------------------------------~ 


465 enter SMC freshman class 
By CHRISTINE GILL Senior Staff Reporter 
Saint Mary's College welcomes 465 freshman to campus this fall, repre­senting 34 states and four foreign countries. 
The incoming freshman join the 1805 full-time students enrolled for the fall semester and come to the College with strong academic backgrounds. 
More than a quarter of the students were in the top 10 percent of their graduating classes, and 50 percent fin­ished in the top one-fifth. 
Forty percent of the students were also members of the National Honor Society. 
A significant development for the College was in the area of minority ap­plications, where that number has tri.pled since 1986, with 28 minority students at the College this fall. 
Mary Ann Rowan, director of admis­sions, said that the entire College-­faculty, staff and students--is pleased with the increase and hope to continue efforts to bring diversity to Saint Mary's. 
This freshman class brings with them the desire to participate in student gov­ernment and activities, as many were club and class presidents. 
There was also a prevailing interest in social justice issues, said Rowan, who sees the incoming freshman as a "class of leaders." 

Construction continues across N D campus 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Senior Staff Reporter 
Construction around campus is progressing on schedule and in some cases ahead of schedule. 
Donald Dedrick, director of the physical plant, said the top priority right now is the com­pletion of the new wing of Nieuwland Science Hall in time for classes next week. He said he would like classes to be conducted in the building with minimal disruptions. 
The construction of th'e new $33 million DeBartolo quad, band building and ROTC building are underway, and interior restoration is taking place in Sacred Heart Church. 
Construction crews are working on the underground utilities for the new DeBartolo quad located between Notre Dame Avenue and the stadium. 
The steam tunnel to the Hesburgh Institute for International Peace Studies is under construction. Dedrick said the tunnel will eventually serve the new Edward J. DeBartolo Classroom Facility and any other buildings in the quad: 
A tunnel containing storm and sanitary sewers, electric, telephone and computer capabilities was completed and sealed. 
Crews are now restoring the curbs and pavement, which will be finished in time for the first home football game on Sept. 22, said Dedrick. 

The foundation for the Hesburgh Institute was laid and the basement walls have been poured, according to Dedrick. 
Two floors in the new ROTC building have been poured and presently the attic floor is being poured, said Dedrick. Some 
exterior masonry work has be­gun. This building is being built east of Juniper Road. 
The band building, located next to the ROTC building, is al­most enclosed, said Dedrick. He said that the construction is ahead of schedule. A storm sewer is being installed under Juniper Road that will take the rain water from the new quad to the St. Joseph's Lake. The area in front of the Computing Center/ Mathematics Building was excavated to enable the construction of this tunnel. 
Interior refurbishing continues in Sacred Heart Church, said Dedrick. The pews have been removed and scaffolding is in place inside. A new lighting and sound system will be installed. Dedrick added that the church will not be used this year. 
Additional construction lies in the University's future. Work on the Edward J. DeBartolo Classroom Facility will begin 
see BUILD/ page 4 
Saturday, August 26, 1989

The Observer
page 2 
OF INTEREST 
Freshmen interested in theater are invited to a party and organizational meeting at Washington Hall Wednesday, Aug. 30 at 7 p.m. Auditions for the October production of Tartuffe will be held Wed. Aug. 30 and Thurs. Aug. 31. The party and auditions are sponsored by the Notre Dame department of Communication and Theater. 
All undergraduate students should have a copy of the Academic Code of Honor Handbook. For those who did not ob­tain one, copies are available in the Registrar's Office, Room 215 Administration Building. All undergraduate students, except se­niors, are governed by the procedures outlined in the Academic Code of Honor Handbook. All courses without any seniors en­rolled will follow the provisions outlined in the Handbook. Courses with only seniors enrolled will follow these procedures if all the students in the class approve. Courses with seniors and other undergraduate enrolled are governed by the provisions of the Code subject to the discretion of the department offering the course. 
The Band of the Fighting Irish is holding auditions. There are openings on all instruments. For registration and complete information, come to the band office in Washington Hall as soon as possible. There will be an orientation meeting in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium today at 4:30 p.m. 
Jose Cardenas. a graduate of Chicago's James Bowen High School, will attend Notre Dame this fall as a recipient of the Gerrits/Pepsi-Cola Foundation's annually awarded scholarship. Cardenas is the third recipient of the $32,000 scholarship, which is awarded to non-athletes who are incoming freshmen at institutions of higher education whose football teams have won the United Press International Coaches Trophy. Notre Dame's did so after its victory over West Virginia in this year's Fiesta Bowl game. 
Thomas Morris, associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, has been selected as a Howard Foundation Fellow for the 1989 to 1990 academic year. He is one of seven fellows selected nationally from nominated applicants. The focus of Morris's re­search for the coming academic year will be on the seventeenth century philosopher and mathematician, Blaise Pascal. He hopes, as a culmination of this research, to write a ninth book, entitled Faith, Reason, and the Meaning of Life. 
The fall schedule of Masses has been announced by the Office of Campus Ministry. At Stepan Center, which will be used for liturgies while Sacred Heart Church is closed for renovation, a Vigil Mass will take place each Saturday at 5 p.m. Each Sunday, Masses will take place at Stepan Center at 10 a.m. and 11:45 a.m. In the Crypt of Sacred Heart Church, Sunday Masses will take place at 6 a.m., 7 a.m., 8 a.m., 9:30 a.m. and 11 a.m. Daily Masses will take place in the Crypt at 6:30 a.m., 7:15 a.m., 11:15 a.m., 12:10 a.m. and 5:15p.m. The schedule for Vigil Masses may be disrupted by campus activities during some Notre Dame home football game weekends. If so, schedule changes will be announced beforehand. 

There's more to life at ND/SMC than just football 

There is a new advertisement gracing the wall 
of the Michiana Regional Airport in South Bend. 
The ad shows a picture of a gold Notre Dame 
football helmet and states some to the effect of, 
"If this is all you know about Notre Dame you 
have a lot to learn." Truer words may never 
have been said. 

The ad brings up an important point about 
Notre Dame. The problem, like at many schools, 
is that everyone, incoming students included, 
tend to see colleges in only one light. One may 
associate Harvard with academic excellence, 
USC with beautiful weather, and some connect 
Notre Dame only with athletic excellence. 
No university,however, should be thought of 
so narrow-mindedly. Many of incoming fresh­
men may not realize it yet but their next four 
years at Notre Dame will be some of the most 
enjoyable of their life. Notre Dame is not just a 
football school and it is also not just an aca­
demic institution. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
cannot be cubbyholed this easily. 
When most of you leave in four years you will not only have learned about science or English, or how to cheer at football and basketball games, but you will also have made a lot of new lifetime friends, learned how to better interact in the world, and discovered many of your hid­den talents. You will have become a part of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and this will stay with you for the rest of your life. 
In the simple but elegant words of one of Notre Dame's faculty, "There is more to college than books." Don't allow yourselves to become so devoted to your studies or any other single activity, make sure you save time to experience college life in total, not in single parts. 
The wonderful thing about college life is that everyone can take advantage of it differently. Not everyone has to take the same courses and join the same clubs. There are enough activities to interest anyone. 
Freshman year is a great time to explore all the facets of college life. There is no need to de­cide right away what major you're going into (you have two whole years) and you don't have 
r­
'The wonderful thing about college life is that everyone can take advantage of it differently' 
Chris Donnelly Editor-in-chief 

to stay in every club you join. Experiment now while you have the time because time goes by much quicker than you think. 
I realize that college life might seem a little overwhelming at first but just give yourself time to get acquainted to your new surroundings, roommates, and classes an in time you will feel 
perfectly at home. In the words of a previous editor of this paper, "grow to love this commu­nity for what it really is, not what you think it might be." 
Finally, I want to be one of the thousands who welcome to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's family. The Observer looks forward to serving you for the next four years and we hope you enjoy the paper. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and we need your help. If you are inter­ested in becoming involved in the paper please feel free to stop by anytime, I or someone else will be happy to answer any questions you may 
'\ 
have. 

Don't worry if you don't think you can write well. The Observer needs people in all of its de­partments and writers are only a fraction of our entire staff. Positions, however, do fill up quickly so if you are interested act soon. 
Thank you and good luck. And remember to try and enjoy every minute at Notre Dame be­cause time really does go too fast. 

Oes6gn Editor ... Chns Labaree Design AssUant ............ Alison Cocks Typesetters ..... Mark Derwent 
News Ectttor Matt Gallagher News Copy Editor John O'Brien ....................................................... Kelley tuthill Sports Copy Editor. .. Theresa Kelly .........-................................. Steve Megargee 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 239-7471 
VIewpoint Copy Editor .... C. Walsh Viewpoint Layoul.. ........... Dave Bruner Accent Editor . .. .. .. John Blasi Accent Copy Editor ....... Alison Cocks 
Accent Designer .......... Laura Stanton Typists. .............. M1Ch1elle Dall NO Day Editor ....... Florentine Hoelker 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
during exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by students of the 
.................................................... Marga Bruns University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­Photographer ............ Eric Bailey 
chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
Ads Designer .. . . Shannon Roach 

The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Here's what our satisfied subscribers are saying about us: 
•"We all enjoy reading The Observer throughout the school year. No other communication from the University keeps us as informed on a
Wish your friends a happy 
real current basis." 

birthday with Observer 

• "The Observer keeps our family in St. Louis in touch with the daily world that our son is in on campus. It was impressive to see the

~ advertising. ~ 
eagerness with which ND students read The Observer at lunch."
0 Call 239-6900 0 
•"You 
continue to publish an excellent paper. As one who comes to campus twice a year to teach, it keeps me in touch with my audience." 

• 
"The Observer was a wonderful addition to our family last year and it



~IRELAND 

kept us up-to-date on all the exciting events on campus. Thanks for 
doing such a fine job!" 

~PROGRAM 

•"We love the sports coverage!'1 
Information Sessions 

Keep up with the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's
SMC ND 

community with an Observer subscription.
Fri., Aug. 25 Sun., Aug 27 1:30 p.m. 2:00p.m. 
For $25 per semester or $40 per year you can be up-to-date on all the 
Little Theatre ACC 
current news, sports, and issues affecting the Notre Dame and Saint
(after general session) 

Mary's communities. Send a check to The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 

Parents Welcome! 


Saturday, August 26, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Nine Saint Mary's freshmen in temporary housing 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Reporter 
For the second year in a row, no freshmen are being housed in temporary housing, accord­ing to the Office of Student Residences. 
Last year was the first year in 17 years that freshmen were 
Welcome Baptist Students 
BAPTIST Student Union 

Bible Study -un 
September , 1989
Join Time: 7 pm Place: Bulla House 
Us! 

Phone: Debbie 1-784-2078 








MISHAWAKA FURNITURE 
CORP. 

We've got the furniture for your room or apartment *Chairs-your choice $75.00 *Love seats-$175.00 *Tables -$50.00 *Lamps and chests 
402 Lincolnway West _ (2 blocks east of the 100 Center , in Mishawaka) Open every night until 8:30 Saturday & Sunday until 5:30 259-5494 
not forced into temporary spokesman for the Office of Pasquerilla West. housing in study lounges. Student Residences confirmed that no freshmen are living in According to Minni Owens, 
Last year, Director of Student study lounges. coordinator of housing for Residences Evelyn Reinebold at­Saint Mary's College, 9 fresh­tributed this to the decision to In 1987-88, the last year to men are being housed in tempo­keep Holy Cross Hall open and have freshmen in temporary rary housing. only a slight increase in class housing, 111 freshmen spent size. either part or all of their year "The rooms that these stu­
Reinebold could not be in study lounges in Planner, dents are in, however," said reached for comment, but a Grace, Pasquerilla East, and Owens,"were built especially for 
190 transfer students to enroll at Notre Dame 
By CHRISTINE WALSH Senior Staff reporter 
In addition to the freshman class numbering between 1820 and 1830 students, approxi­mately 190 transfer students will be enrolled at Notre Dame for the 1989-90 academic year. 
This year marks an increase in the number of transfers ac­cepted, up from 155 in 1988. 
The number of transfer stu­dents accepted depends largely upon space available and the current housing situation, ac­cording to Susan Joyce, trans­
• South Bend, IN 46637 
1

I I I I I 

temporary housing and are ac­tually quite nice." 
Owens said that the 9 stu­dents are living in three sepa­rate rooms, each with a bath­room. She added that even when given an opportunity to leave, the students usually choose to stay in those rooms for the entire year. 
fer coordinator and assistant director of admissions. 
Since the opening of Siegfried and Knott Halls, it has been slightly easier to accept female transfer students, said Joyce. 
"No woman who requested to live on-campus was denied such housing," Joyce said. 
Not all men who requested on-campus housing were able to get it, whereas in the past it was generally the women who were at such a disadvantage, Joyce said. 
One of the most frequently cited reasons for transferring to Notre Dame was to experi­ence dorm and campus life, said Joyce. 
Adjustment to a new school and environment is difficult, and transfers must "face extra trials living off campus," Joyce said. 
Being a transfer student is like "entering a movie after it's begun," according to Roland Smith, executive assistant to the president. 
Female transfer students are distributed among the dorms across the campus, while many of the male transfers can be found residing in Holy Cross Hall. 
The men were given the op­tion to live in Holy Cross , said Joyce, although the dorm is slated to close after this aca­demic year. 
Those transfer students living in Holy Cross this year "may not be able to live on campus next year, depending on hous­ing availability," said Joyce. "Everyone (all Holy Cross resi­dents) will be displaced next year," Joyce said. 
According to Joyce, "The feeling of community at Notre Dame ... the Notre Dame tradi­tion, the spirit" is what at­tracts the typical transfer stu­dent. 
"Obviously academics (are the primary attraction). Students view a Notre Dame diploma as a way of getting ahead. They are looking for a challenge," Joyce added. 
When applying for transfer status, students are largely judged on a combination of both course work completed at their previous institution and grades. The school from which the student is transferring is also considered, said Joyce. 
Unlike freshmen, transfer students apply to the individual colleges, which then conduct the primary evaluation of the perspective student. 
The most difficult college to enter as a transfer is the College of Arts and Letters, said Joyce. This is because "approximately 40 percent of the freshmen choose to enter the College of Arts and Letters, leaving no room for transfer students." 
Only about 35 of the 85 transfer students who are ju­niors, and no sophomores, were able to get into the College 
see TRANSFER I page 4 


page 4 The Observer Saturday, August 26, 1989 
Malloy works on NO-Australia, Vatican documents over summer 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Reporter 
While many students used the past summer to vacation and to prepare for college, University President Father Edward Malloy spent much of the sum­mer attending to important matters. 
Besides addressing com­mencement ceremonies at vari­ous institutions and speaking with alumni, Malloy also con­tinued work on revising a Vatican document and planning the University of Notre Dame­Australia. 
Malloy, along with University Provost Timothy O'Meara and Executive Vice-President William Beauchamp, travelled to Australia from June 27 to July 16 to continue planning of the new university. 
According to Roland Smith, executive assistant to the pres­ident, Malloy and O'Meara are serving on the new university's planning board and Beauchamp 

Transfer 
continued from page 3 
of Arts and Letters, added Joyce. 
"The College of Business Administration took the lion's share (of transfers)," Joyce said. 
Although the minimum GPA requirement for a potential transfer is a 3.0, the average transfer student applies with close to a 3.5, said Joyce. 
Various improvements have been made this year in provid­ing more helpful and extensive orientation and counseling pro­grams for transfers, said Joyce. 
"The orientation, organized by Kevin Keane, chair of the student government committee on transfers, has gotten better each year. This year shows how good it (the orientation pro­gram) can be," Joyce said. 
"Transfers are in no way sec­ond class citizens. They bring to Notre Dame the best of what they have seen before. They make this a more heteroge­neous community," said Joyce. 
Build 
continued from page 1 
next year, Dedrick said. 
Also coming next year is the Fischer Graduate Student Hesidenee, consisting of graduate apartments and a community eenter to be built north and east of the O'llara­Graee Graduate Hesidences. 
ND 
continued from page 1 
almost 8,000 in 1987, to more than 9,600 in 1988. 
Another faetor in the upward trend is the favorable press ex­posure the University has re­ceived with the end of the 35­year administration of University President-emeritus Father Theodore llesburgh and the first two years of the tenure of University President Father Edward Malloy, Hooney said. 
+ 
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

is serving as a consultant. 
"They are planning to have the university established by 1992, but I'm not sure how re­alistic that is," Smith said. "The timetable is the key ques­tion," he added. 
When established, the University of Notre Dame­Australia will become Australia's first private univer­sity, a fact which is causing lo­cal problems in Australia, Smith said. 
In late June, Malloy received the fourth draft of the docu­ment, "The Schema on Catholic Higher Education," which was first proposed in 1985 by the Vatican Congregation for Catholic Education. 
In May, Malloy was elected as one of three North American members of a 15-member commission created by a world congress of Catholic educators. The commission was created in order to assist in revising the document. 
According to Malloy, the doc­ument is "supposed to address the question of the role of Catholic higher education, the relationship between the insti­tutions and the local bishop and national groups of bishops, the role of various component parts like the theology depart­





ment, or the way that science ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.
and technology are ap­
proached." 

Malloy's review of the April meeting of the congress ap­peared in the June 10 issue of the Catholic weekly, America. In the review, Malloy wrote that he expected the new draft to be substantially changed as a re­sult of the April meeting. 
Among those recommenda­tions were proposals that the document be more "positive, in­spirational and future-ori­ented," and that the "full au­tonomy" and "freedom of re­search and teaching" of Catholic universities be clearly affirmed. 
I 
Kimmerly's 


CiltiA·s PIZZA 
DELIVERY fitfD CARRY OOT 
With hand rolled crust as only Gina's makes It 
As Near As Your Phone 
~~~,~!~~ 
Friday and Saturday 4-12 p.m. : : Wednesday, Thursday, I ~o\ (i• ~mmenyp'' • 1 Sunday 4-11 p.m. (Mich. Time) I Ina s IZZQ I 
L------------------~ 
and 

PARTY STORE 
2640 South 3rd. at Bertrand Road Niles, Michigan 
r-------------------, 
j Sl0,2~ff
@) Tues., Wed., Thurs. j 
Ifyou canfind aMacintosh 
intfiis ropm,we mightputone 
myours. Free. 

In what will surely be the easiest test ofyour intellect this tenn, Apple invites you to.try wi~ng afree Apple~ Macintosh" Plus personal computer merely by finding it in this draWing. 
We'll even give you ahint: It's not the table, the lamp, or the chair. Now you're on your own. To register, look for contest details where Macintosh computers are sold on your 
campus. Oh, all right, we'll give you ahint for that, too: Look at the bottom ofthis ad. But do it really, really fas~. Because only one Macintosh is being given away on 
this campus, and it's going to happen soon. Soon, as in right away. Pronto. Quick-like. But hey, you can take ahint. 
Somebodys going to win afree Macintosh. 
Enter August 25th-September 15th Notre Dame Computer Store, Office of University Computing, Math/Computing Bldg. Notre Dame, IN 
0 1989 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Madmosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, lnc.lllustraiion 0 1989 Man Gmening. One entry per person, please. Only fullume students, faculty, and staffare eligible to win. 

.------------------------~----------~--------------------------------------------------------~~---.~----~--~~----------~ 
Saturday, August 26, 1989 
The Observer 

Breslin, Kinkopf set high goals for 1989-90 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Senior Staff Reporter 
The main goal of student government for the 1989-90 school year will be to provide services to students while pro­moting intellectual life on cam­pus. 
Balancing intellectual life and services is the primary purpose of student government, and the current student government will strive to provide both of 
these things for students, said 
Student  Body President  Matt  
Breslin.  
"Our goal  is  to  make  sure  

there is a balance of services from student government, along with a healthy intellectual life," said Breslin. "We plan to continue activities such as the Iceberg Debates, while hope­fully improving some services." 
One improvement is the Blue and Gold Pages, which is a di­rectory of information for nearly anything imaginable, de­signed for students, Breslin said. The Blue and Gold Pages will have information like phone numbers of important places on campus, general in­formation on the campus, and will also provide information on off-campus locales. 
"A guide like this is good, especially for freshmen who have questions about things they're not quite sure about," said Breslin. 
Student government plans to continue efforts to construct a 24-hour lounge, and Breslin said that he and Student Body Vice-President Dave Kinkopf will soon meet with their cabi­net to establish other long-term goals. 
Over the summer, Breslin and Kinkopf held a meeting on campus with representatives of six other Catholic colleges and universities to create the National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities. 


BOOKS/ BOOKS! BOOKS! 
For your convenience Textbooks are now arranged by course number. 
Extended bookstore hours on Tuesday, August 29th and Wednesday, August 30th 9 am to 7 pm 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
LET JCPENNEY HELP YOU MAKE IT \ YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME... 
• Luxury Bath Towels, 3.99 
• Saxony Bath Rug Set, 19.99~~--_......_---"'1 
•
Vinyl Shower Liners, $6 

• 
Plain Hem Sheets, 6.99 

• 
Bed Pillows, 4.99 

•
Throw Blankets, $15 


CATCH THE TEAM SPIRIT! 
NOTRE DAME APPAREL 
FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY 
You"ll be rooting for your favorite 
college athletic team in style. 
JCPenney has one of the most 
complete collections of Notre Dame 
Team Apparel in the area. 
Check us out! 

You're looking smarter 
Charge it at: University Park Mall-Mishawaka Phone 277-6000 
page 5 
Kolman named as newND associate provost 
Special to The Observer 

Eileen Kolman has been named associate provost at the University of Notre Dame, filling the vacancy left by Sister John Miriam Jones. 
Jones left the University to return to her religious com­munity as spiritual director. 
Before assuming the post on Aug. 1, Kolman was as­sociate academic dean and coordinator of institutional planning at the College of Mount St. Joseph, Cincinnati. 
She received her bachelor's degree in mathematics in 1968 from Ohio Dominican 
College in Columbus, her M.Ed. in religious studies in 197 5 from Boston College and her Ph.D. in higher edu­cation in 1987 from Loyola University, Chicago. 
Previously, Kolman was in­volved in institutional plan­ning at Elmhurst (Ill.) College and Loyola, Chicago. 
From 1980 to 1983 she was dean of students at Saint Xavier College in Chicago and held that posi­tion and other administra­tive posts at Albertus Magnus College in New Haven, Conn., from 1972 ­1980. 

!"""-----------------------------------~ -~-~-­
page 6 The Observer Saturday, August 26, 1989 
SMC government begins new year 
Classifieds 
Notices 
!!!!! USED TEXBOOKS 1111! ORDERED IN 3 DAYS 25% OFF LIST PRICE! II 
Pandora's Books 808 Howard St,. 3 Blks. from NO 
233-2342 
We have paperbacks in stock from Aristotle to Zola, Fromm to Yoder! II PANDORA'S BUYS USED TEXTS TOO! 

$350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 EXTENSION P-2382H. ORGANIZATION THAT WOULD LIKE TO MAKE $500-$1,000 FOR A ONE WEEK ON-CAMPUS MARKETING PROJECT. MUST BE ORGANIZED AND HARDWORKING. CALL JOE OR MYRA AT (800) 592-2121. 
Tickets 

By CHRISTINE GILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
College diversity, security 
department relations and in­
creased interest in Saint 
Mary's sports are some of 
the issues the student gov­
ernment will be covering this 
year. 
Lisa Catenacci, student 
body president and chair of 
the Board of Governance, 
said these are areas of con­
cern expressed in a survey of 
student leaders last 
semester. 
Increased communication 
with the security depart­
ment, including the issues of 
security procedures and 
parking regulations, was a 
prominent topic and will be a 
focus of the governmental 
boards when they meet this 
fall. 
Continuing college diversity 
and increasing student sup­
port of the athletic teams 
are also goals the student 
leaders will work toward. 
The major difference in 
student government this year is the change of the title of the Programming Board to the Board of Student Affairs (BOSA). 
Although the positions in­cluded on this board remain the same, with the addition of a Health Commissioner and Campus Clubs Commissioner, the change in name also reflects efforts to include the total student lifestyle into student gov­ernment at Saint Mary's. 
Vice President for Academic Affairs. Mary Beth Blajda, is the head of BOSA, which also includes the Student Activities Board. 
Saint Mary's Academic Council, led by Deirdre Milon, vice-president for Academic Affairs and College Relations, will continue to make decisions about aca­demic programs and poli­cies. 
The governing bodies begin the fall semester with meet­ings on Sept. 4 for BOSA and Sept.6 for the Board of Governance. 
WE ALWAYS NEED LFADERS 
CAPTGAGUO 
317-238-6834 
COLLECT 
R.FOi:CE • 
-·-..: --:: : > 

t---Foreign Study Programs--.. 
UNIVERSitY OF NOTRE DAME INVITES YOU TO ATIEND A GENERAliNFOflMA TION SESSION 

WHEN: SUNDAY, AUGUST 27, 1989 WI-ERE: JACC, ARENA, Sections 4/5/6 (Purple and Orange) TIME: 2:15P.M. 
lmrnedi11lely lollowing the general information session, individual sessions for each program will be held in the following rooms: 
~  COORDINATOR  ElXM  
Angers, France  Or. Louis MacKenzie  Gate 10, Gym  
lnnsbruck, Austria  Dr. Albert Wimmer  C14  
Jerusalem  Sr. Aquin O'Neill  C124  
Maynooth, Ireland  Ms. Roxann Brown  Monogram Room B  
Saint Mary's College  
Mexico City. Mexico  Dr. Otivera-Williams  Monogram Room C  
Nagoya, Japan  Fr. George Minamiki, SJ  Pool, Rolrs  
Aquatic Center  
People's Republic of China  Dr. Dian Murray  C-101, Administrative  
Summer Program  Conference Room  
Rome, Italy  Or. Peter Checca  GateS, Gym  
Saint Mary's College  
Toledo, Spain  Dr. Claudia Kselman  Rolrs Aquatic Center.  
Spectator Area  

Former student participants wiH also be on hand to discuss their experiences, offer comments and answer questions. 
How're you going to do it? 
Paul Seckinger, Welcome to the Dome! Hope You like. 
Those Who Have Gone Before 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 
2 Tickets for
287-4082. 
MSU No Matter the costHow're you going to do it? 
Call James Fisher 
LEARN 
Collect at 914 -338 -7188 

Wanted Personal 
CPR,
LOOKING FOR A FRATERNITY, 

SORORITY OR STUDENT Buy Observer Classifieds ORGANIZATION THAT WOULD LIKE TO MAKE $500-$1,000 FOR My Dearest Allison: 
PLEASE. 

A ONE WEEK ON-CAMPUS Toke o l,lesov1ng
MARKETING PROJECT. MUST Red Cross CPR course.

BE ORGANIZED AND HARDWORKING. We'll be listening for "noises" CALL JOE OR coming from the MYRA AT (800) 592-2121. 
+American Red Cross 
BATCAVE!II 

Notre Dame 
Newsstand Price 
Every day the Chicago Tribune puts the world Feel the action with Sports. Follow your at your fingertips...with the Midwest's best favorites with the Midwest's most colorful news writing, sports coverage and business coverage of college, prep and pro sports! Get reporting. It's transmitted via satellite to a award-winning action photography, plus printing site near you so that you get up-to­expert commentary from Bob Verdi, Bernie the-minute information on global and Lincicome and Jon Margolis. national events. 
Enjoy Tempo. Every day, enjoy articles about science, arts, literature, current events and interesting people, plus comics, puzzles and the Chicago Tribune crossword puzzle. 
Compare opinions with award-winning columnists. 
When it comes to forming an opinion, these 
Chicago Tribune columnists have very 
definite ideas: Mike Royko, Bob Greene, Ann 
Landers and Dear Abby. 
Stay on top of the world with national news. Chicago Tribune journalists cover the world with the kind of depth and analysis you just can't get from radio or television.

: Track your future in Business. Complete financial tables and the Midwest's largest business writing staff enable you to make
Order now to have the Midwest's best sound decisions on your future-from thenewspaper delivered to your dorm or 
career path you follow to the stocks you wantapartment at 40% off the regular newsstand 
to buy.
price! 

Call now to receive the Chicago Tribune at 40°/o off: 
(21 9) 232-3205 or 1-800-TRIBUNE. Ask for Operator 36. 

Viewpoint
Saturday, August 26, 1989 page 7 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor............................. John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor.............................. Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor............... Christine Gill Controller............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objective­ly as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Ed­itor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Ac­cent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS

New faces now a part of the ND community Malloy welcomes class of 1993 to ND 
Dear Class of 1993: school career many outstanding way. Take advantage of their Welcome to Notre Dame. Dave Bruner I am happy to welcome you to attributes. All of you were presence and allow them to be­This is the weekend to find Notre Dame on behalf of the scholars but in addition many come part of your extended 
your way around your new sur­Viewpoint Editor faculty, staff and administra­of you were leaders of your community. May the coming roundings. If you've visited tion of the University. You are student bodies in many student­year and all those that follow here before you already know Start in your dorm with the now part of the rich heritage oriented activities. I hope that be a time of real growth in the what a beautiful campus this people in your section. These and tradition of Notre Dame. I you continue this involvement life of the mind and in the ways is. If not, then take advantage are the people with whom you'll am sure that each of you will at Notre Dame. I also encour­of God. of the free time you have this be up 'till 3:30 discussing nu­find a way to make a distinctive age you to consider participa­weekend to stroll around and clear proliferation and Stealth contribution to the life of the tion in many of the social ser­explore. technology or maybe just last campus as we approach the cel­vice projects available on cam­
Saturday's date. Long after this ebration of our sesquicenten­pus. 
Enjoy the warm weather group has moved apart you will nial. There are many people here Father Edward Malloy while it lasts, for arctic cold is still consider yourselves some­You have already displayed who who will be happy to be of University President only a few short weeks away. If thing of a fraternity or a during the course of your high assistance to you along the August 26, 1989 you've never experienced a sorority. South Bend winter there is really no way to describe it for · 
Hickey invites freshmen to get involved 
you except to say that words Though graduation may seem such as freezing and arctic like an eternity away, any se­cold don't do it justice. nior will tell you that the time Dear Class of 1993: you intellectually and to guide what will become some of the 
goes by quickly. One day you're Welcome to Saint Mary's you academically.. They are most special and treasured 
This is now your home away sitting in Freshman chemistry College! You are about to begin your mentors, and you will find friendships of your lifetime. from home. No matter what and wondering if you'll ever what we hope will be one of the that learning from them your background or where turn twenty-one and the next most rewarding four-year peri­extends far beyond the doors of 
We realize that the transition
you've come from you are now you're applying to medical ods of your life. We are excited the classroom. to college is not easy. But we a part of a unique community-­school and wondering where all to have you here. 
want you to know that we arethe Notre Dame family. You the time went. Saint Mary's College is dedi­here to help you through it. 
are now officially a "Domer." Notre Dame abounds with In selecting a liberal arts ed­cated to helping you develop Counselors, faculty, adminis­
opportunities to get involved-­ucation, you have decided to your talents, not only academi­trators, and Sisters alike, 
we Just what is a "Domer?" Ask Non-Varsity Athletics, Student explore the many educational cally but also spiritually, cul­want you to succeed and to get
ten different seniors and you'll Government, The Observer, avenues which will give you a turally, and as a human being. over the hurdle. Seek us out, if get ten different answers. community service projects, solid foundation for the life you You have selected a Catholic you need us. 
Being a Domer means being a and many others. Find out will live after Saint Mary's. This college and are truly blessed to part of the best Catholic uni­what interests you and get education will prepare you for be studying in a caring, As you begin your first year versity in the world. It means involved. No one can study 24 a lifetime of learning. Christian community. There are at Saint Mary's, I challenge you an opportunity to challenge hours a day. Outside activities many ways on this campus for to take advantage of the won­your values and beliefs. It can be a way to have fun, to I encourage you-to probe, you to explore your religious derful opportunities awaiting 
means a chance to explore who learn something new, to meet question, search, grow-­heritage. Take advantage of you. Persevere. Take strives you are and to change what you new people and a way to keep stretch your mind and take full these opportunities; your faith forward and grow as a total don't like about yourself. your sanity. Don't wait until advantage of the knowledge can be renewed and deepened person. Soon these few short your senior year to decide that that is just waiting to be during your stay with us. years will be past. Let them be 
Of course, there's more to it you want to participate in all discovered. well spent so that when you than that. As a Domer you are the many extracurricular leave, you will set out with con­
now a part of a close knit activities which can be found An important part of this Saint Mary's has many clubs fidence toward making our group of students and alumni under the Dome. process will be the interaction and organizations for every in­world a bstter place. who stick together long after Above all, remember that you you will have with your terest. There are varsity intra­graduation. Start this weekend are the newest members of the professors. Take the time to mural sports, the campus pa­
to go out and make new Notre Dame community, a get to know them well. They per, yearbook, literary 
William Hickey 

friends, for you will find that membership which will last a care deeply about you, as a magazine, and student govern­many of your new friendships lifetime. You've earned it, so be person and as a student. Give ment. We encourage you to get President, Saint Mary's College 
will last a lifetime. 
DOONESBURY 
... ANfJ FINAUY, ?He 15/.AMIC 
O<!TIC.'? C/Ra£3 0/?J?&RS I?MTH 8Y 57DNING fOR. UO8(}S(JI6UA, 
8/?JCA JONG ANI? I?ONAU? 
WLJMPI 

.
' 
proud. 
THAT 15A/.L. t11AYAUAH'5 U//t-/,88 OON&. 
I 
August 26, 1989

them the chance to challenge involved and to enjoy developing 
tuHAT? HUH? THAT'S 
o IT? 
0 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
H&Y!IAIHAT 
ABOUT Vt:AI1/ANI?Y TWirl. 
RIJON/5Yf 
'It is better to know some 
of the questions than all 
of the answers.' 
James Thurber (1894-1961) 

Bookstore 1. No, you can't buy condoms at the bookstore. Also the place for students to buy their books and start their collection of Notre Dame sweatshirts. 2. The place where flocks of alumni and en­thusiastic fans go to buy Notre Dame paraphernalia. 3. -­Basketball tournament The name of the springtime basket­ball extravaganza involving al­most everyone on campus in­cluding Lou Holtz and Monk Malloy. 
BP An abbreviation for Breen-Phillips Hall. Located on North Quad next to Farley Hall, its indistinguishable neighbor. 
'Brare Also known as the Theodore M. llesburgh Library. Harely populated by students aside from exam week and only then if the streakers are com­ing. As a general rule, the first two floors are for social stud­ies, we think the third floor is the Bat Cave, and we've heard that the other floors are for academic warriors. 
Bridget's One of the two bars near campus most fre­quented by Domers. Bridget's is the bar with the "We love Lou" sign painted on the outside wall. Often referred to as a bar for "beautiful people." 
CCE Located across from the Morris Inn, the Center for Continuing Education looks like the house in the great Hitchcock movie "North by Northwest." 
CHEGS These zany people are chemical engineering ma­jors. Often found on the 12th floor of the library hunched over their periodic tables, these students have the luxury of easy classes and great looking calculators. 
Choke Room The technical name of this pay cafeteria is the Oak Room. The Oak Hoom's food always manages to taste better than the food in the South Dining Hall's, yet both come from the same kitchen. 
Circus Lunch While dubbed by some critics as "Lunch on a Stick," it is actually one of the better special meals offered by the dining hall, such as "Swamp Night (Maalox delight)." 
Common Sense A monthly rag thrown together by people who are anti-everything. Look to Common Sense for anything but its namesake. 



DICTIONARY 
happy campus. 

Alumni Clad in blue and gold plaid pants and Notre Dame paraphernalia, these former students are best identified by their vociferous rah-rah spirit. Often found in flocks outside the bookstore,the alumni may try to torment you by showing their exhausted families their former haunts in your room. 

American Studies Program Often dubbed as the easiest major at Notre Dame, AMST majors receive a broad-based, diverse education. ranging from courses like "The Frisbee and Middle America's Post­
Modern  Consciousness:  A  
Meeting  of  the  Minds,"  to  
"Batman as Pop Hero."  

An Tostal Notre Dame's spring fling before the hell of second semester finals week. This is the weekend of the mud pits. chariot races and jello wrestling. 
Archies (ARK-ees) Mysterious creatures who sleep most of the day, and only ven­ture forth at night to toil on design projects. 
Beer Goggles 1. The phe­nomenon which makes mem­bers of the opposite sex appear more attractive in proportion to the amount of alcohol ingested. 2. An excuse. 
Benders Residents of the booming metropolis known as South Bend. Keep your South Bend slams to a minimum though--Father Sorin could have just as easily founded this fine institution in Gary. 

-~-~---~-------------~­
... 

Saturday, August 26, 1989 
The Commons The other of two most frequented bars ar campus. The proprietor Pasquale created quite a stir hen he installed condom machines in the wash­. Patrons like to say that the beautiful people go to 
!Bridget's and everyone else goes to The Commons. The un­common meet at The Commons. Come join us for a beer. 
Comp Math The little build­ing behind the library where most of your Calculus labs will be. A fantastic example of func­tionalist architecture. 
Crunchy An adjective describ­ing those students who dress like they've just raided a Third World Bazaar. They commune in front of O'Shag, play guitars and get absorbed into the Universal Consciousness. 
CSC The little building next to the library is the home of the Center for Social Concerns. The CSC directs such programs as the Neighborhood Help Study Program. 
Cushing Auditorium 1. By day, a rather uncomfortable classroom. This very classroom was once the sight of the dreaded Chemistry quizzes known to most seniors as "Emits." 2. By night, a movie theater featuring great flicks like " 9 and 1/2 Weeks" and "Bull Durham." 
Digger The nickname of Notre Dame's basketball coach. Digger Phelps' fashion sense is amazing. Check out some pho­tos of him from the 1970's if you want to see something re­ally disco. 
Dog book Remember those horrible graduation photos that you sent in to school over the summer with other details about your life? Those photos and that information will ap­pear in a pictorial guide of the class of '93. Watch out for people without photos, they might have been to ugly to put in the dog book. Actually they probably forgot to send their pictures in so don't worry. 
Domers Congratulations. You can now include yourself as one of these creatures. 
Double Domer Burgers This culinary masterpiece is com­posed of two burgers of ques­tionable quality carefully placed between a greasy bun with an extra piece of bread. 
Du Lac The handbook of How to, When to . and Where to. Learn it , Love it. Live it. 
Duck Island The island in the middle of St. Joseph's Lake is often frequented by duck watchers on warm weekend nights. Also known as Treasure Island because of the number of chests that have been uncov­ered. 
EE s (double eez) 1 . Electrical Engineering majors. 
2. The middle two letters in the word "geek." 3. Freshmen soon to enter the College of Business Administration. 
Emil The legendary chem­istry professor retired from teaching in '87 but continues to serve as the dean of the Freshmen Year of Studies. Emil T. Hofman's dreaded Friday morning quizzes were the bane of existence for many a freshman. 
Ethanol The pungent aroma that permeates the Notre Dame campus when the wind blows from the direction of the ethanol plant in town. Students claim the aroma smells like ev­erything from stale beer to french toast. 
HTH 1. Home Town Honey 
2. A standard excuse for blowing off undesirable SYR dates or unusually aggressive companions. 
JACC The Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Hosts such talented groups as Whitesnake, Cinderella, and Frank Sinatra. ' 
K-9 corps Favored method of the South Bend police to break up Off-Campus parties. They reserve tear gas for extreme cases. 
Life in Hell 1. A cartoon with a one-eared rabbit in it. 2. The part of the weekly magazine Scholastic that is read. 3. Finding out that you have a 20­page research paper due in a class that you haven't attended since Spring Break. 
Loftus Center The Taj-Ma­Holtz 
Meatless cheeseburgers Yes, we know it is an oxymoron, but the dining hall served these mystery patties during Lent last year. So be on the lookout for creative cooking on the meatless Fridays in Lent . You never have the opportunity to feel tempted. Big Brother even feeds you the "right" food. 
Monk Malloy President of the University of Notre Dame. Monk Malloy is a resident of Sorin Hall and can be seen burning up the courts at Moreau during Monk Hoops. 
O.C. Denotes 'Off-Campus' and includes anything located outside the boundaries of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses. 2. Going O.C. On weekends, this expression refers to a search for a fulfill­ing 'social gathering' at off­campus locations once the on­campus possibilities have been exhausted. 
O'Shag An abbreviation for O'Shaughnessy Hall, home of the College of Arts and Letters. 

P.E. 1. One of the most re­warding of the University's graduation requirements, open only to freshmen, this provides students with the opportunity of relieving academic stress in activities ranging from brain­bashing to social dance. Prerequisite: successful com­pletion of a 'survival-of-the­fittest' swim test without drowning. 2. The abbreviation for Pasquerilla East, one of the aesthetically pleasing dormi­tory structures located on the Mod Quad. Another glorious example of functionalist archi­tecture. 
P.W. Stands for Pasquerilla West. Also located on the Mod Quad, this dorm is only distin­guishable from P.E. by its greater proximity to the center of campus and its competitive interhall flag football team. 
Parietals 1. Strictly enforced times during which no students may be present in the rooms of members of the opposite sex, instituted in honor of the old adage: "Remember, every room is a bedroom." These times are midnight on weeknights and 2 a.m. on weekends. Since no self-respecting Domer should have any pressing business in a member of the opposite sex's bedroom at night, this should not prove a hindrance to campus social life. 
2. Breaking Parietals Although the University takes a serious view of this offense, which is punishable by death by crucifixion after a 'fair' trial is conducted by Notre Dame's special Spanish Inquisition Task Force, those who have actually succeeded in doing so attain a special status within the student body. Their success implies that the amoral cretins have been engaging in the S­word at risk of life and limb, or at least endless hours of community service. 
Pit The social snack bar lo­cated in the basement of the li­brary. This is frequented at least every half-hour by every library goer with a sense of priorities. Serious study is sec­ondary; scoping and complain­ing about the five twenty page papers due tomorrow that one hasn't even begun to research take precedence. Real students are rarely glimpsed here. 2. The lower-level P.E. aerobics torture chamber in the Joyce ACC located near the soda/vending machines. 
Passion Pit Almost every 24­hour-lounge area on campus takes on the title of 'Passion Pit' after parietals, particularly on weekends. Couples with some sense of what is morally right and wrong at this univer­sity find their way to these 'social areas' both to see and be seen. Keep all four feet on the floor, folks, we don't want to scandalize the security guards! 
Passion Pit 

Program of Liberal Studies 
a.k.a PLS If you enjoy the pseudo-intellectual life, com­bined with a certain amount of expulsion of hot air, this major is perfect for you. Those who find themselves among the elite group participating in this 'Great Books' program tend to excuse any lack of GPA by re­minding their peers that they could have followed the American Studies path had they not seen the light and instead chosen this higher intellectual plane. 
Quad Notre Dame has four main quads, known to its in­habitants as North, South, Mod, and God quads. A fifth quad, referred to as 'Green' quad is in the works, on the site of the student tailgaters during football season. These are ex­tremely useful for sunbathing and scoping. 
Rent-a-cop Term of endearment used by students to refer to campus security, who thoughtfully makes sure that students know when they're illegally parked. 
Right, Right, Left, Left This particular set of directions can be heard in South dining hall when students attempt to verify rendezvous points for dinner dates with friends. 
Rock Short for the Rockne Memorial, located on South Quad, this tribute to the le­gendary Knute Rockne houses sports facilities such as rac­quetball courts and a swimming pool. 
Rolfs Aquatic Center If you can take the trouble to walk out to the JACC (an exercise of questionable value for residents of South Quad), you can swim in Notre Dame's multimillion dollar Olympic size swimming pool. When it's functioning, that is. 
ROTC Reserve Officer Training Corps. They have guns. Big guns. 
SAGA 1. An abbreviation for 'Soviet Attempt to Gag America' 2. The name of the catering company which used to run the SMC dining halls. Although SAGA is no longer with them, the dining hall is still referred to as SAGA as an affectionate tribute to the many years of quality food service they provided. 
Scamming This is often the result of a night's carousing, particularly if beer goggles have been donned by both par­ticipants. You may be embar­rassed to show your face on the quad the next morning, but this popular post-party activity is legal in the eyes of the Czars under the Dome provided pari­etals are not broken, articles of clothing are seemingly intact, and S-word activities are not indulged in. Single hitters only, please. 
Scoping This is often a fore­
runner of the above entry, as it 
entails shopping for a potential 
conquest in dining halls, dog 
books, classes, and on quads. 
This is a superficial activity; 
looks are favored, brains and 
personality are optional. 
Shuttle These can be picked 
up in several spots around the 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
campuses and are the most ef­
fective mode of transport be­
tween campuses, aside from a 
car. 
SMC 1. Abbreviation for 
Saint Mary's College. 2. If 
pronounced Smick, refers to 
any student of Saint Mary's 
College. 
Stonehenge Modeled on the 
ancient ruin over in England, 
this peace memorial adorns 
North Quad and is a tribute to 
Notre Dame men who gave 
their lives in World War II, 
Korea, and Vietnam. Its foun­
tain can be a satisfactory 
source of a midnight swim, and 
watch out for soap bubbles ... 
Study Breaks Essential to 
maintain the sanity of even the 
die-hard Throats. 
Unfortunately the amount of 
time spent on study breaks is 
often inversely proportional to 
the quality of GPA. 
SYR Abbreviation for 'Screw 
Your Roommate'; refers to the 
all-hall semi-formals each 
dorm holds throughout the 
semester. Get your revenge for 
all the nasty habits you are 
forced to endure by setting 
your roommate up with the 
blind date of the century. 
~­
~ 
~ ' ' 
,_
I' 

Throats Academic Warriors 
whose home is the library. If 
they surface from their books 
for extended periods of time, 
they experience serious with­
drawal symptoms. 
Touchdown Jesus Our irrev­. erent but affectionate nickname 
for the 14-story mural on the 
side of the Hesburgh Library 
which faces the stadium. Jesus' 
arms are raised in the tradi­
tional Touchdown position, 
confirming the popular campus 
myth that God really is on our 
side. 
Towers The twin high-rise 
men's dormitories on the Mod 
Quad, Flanner and Grace halls. 
'Za One of the few true dis­
tortions of the English lan­
guage. Rumor has it that there 
are Domers who actually use 
this in reference to pizza, but 
fortunately they are few and 
far between. 
-




WELCOME BACK STUDENTS! It's time to Count On Domino's Pizza!® 
1 2 
r--~~------------,
r----------------,
I -MONDAY'S-I I -THURSDAY'S-I I Beat the Clock! The time on I I THINK THICK! I 
..-I the clock Is the price you pay! I I I 
Get One Medium Pan Pizza 
I I I I 
Call from 6pm -7pm order Two 10" One-topping pizzas 
I I I loaded with cheese, I
and the time you call is the price you pay! I Call from 7pm-Spm order Two 12" One-topping pizzas I I and pepperoni I and the time you call is the price you pay! 
I I I I
Call from 8pm-9pm order Two 14" One-topping pizzas 
ell ~ 
I and the time you call is the price you pay! I I FOR ONLY I Call from 9pm -10pm order Two One-topping Pan Pizzas
I I I I
pizza and the time you call Ia the price you pay! :~¢~ $6.00 
I I I I 
1 · coupon per order. eu.tomer pays 1 I Offer valid only on Thursday. One coupon per order. IoaJee tax. Valid a! listed
~~ --~~-~ LCustomer pays sales tax. Valid at listed locations. J
locations. Umhed dellwry area. 
Umited delivery area. C>1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
L--_=_ ~----::.o:::..:·-J 
,. 3 4 
r----------------,
I r----~ANvoAv~----1
-SUNDAY'S­

I I I I
Count on Domino's Pizza® 
I DOUBLE FEATURE! I I I
to supply you with
I Get Two Small Cheese Pizzas! I I I
Two Large Cheese Pizzas 
I I I I
anyday of the week! 
I I I I
FOR ONLY
I I I I
e~~ ~~ ¢g.FOR ONLY
I I I I
$4.49
I I I : ~~~ $8.89 I 
I I I I
Offer valid only on Sunday. One coupon per order. 
Offer valid anyday of the week! One coupon per order. 
I Customer pays sales tax. Valid at listed locations. I I I
Customer pays sales tax. Valid at listed locations. 
.. l JUmited delivery area. C1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc. I Umited delivery area. C1989 Domino's pizza, Inc . I 
----------------L----------------J 
J 

What in the world are you waitin' for!?! 
...
CALL NOW! 
Notre Dame University 
271-0300 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Saturday, August 26, 1989 The Observer page 11 
Saint Mary's joins NCAA Division Ill ranks 
Special to The Observer 
Saint Mary's College will compete at the NCAA's Division lii level in each of the school's seven varsity sports beginning this fall, according to athletic director Jo-Ann Nester. 
Previously, Saint Mary's had competed as a member of the NAIA. The Belles will fulfill their present scheduling com­mitments by maintaining a dual NCAA/NAIA membership for the coming year. 
Nester said the switch re­sulted from a desire for a more consistent level of competition with an emphasis on scheduling schools more comparable to Saint Mary's in terms of struc­ture of their academic and ath­letic programs 
"As an NCAA Division III af­filiate, we now have the oppor­tunity to compete in a non­scholarship division, among schools with athletic and aca­demic philosophies similar to ours," Nester said. "This kind of peer scheduling clearly will allow our teams to be more competitive in post-season play at the district, regional and national level. 
Saint Mary's received written verification of its acceptance in a letter from the NCAA The membership is effective Sept 1. 
Saint Mary's fields varsity teams in basketball, soccer, softball, swimming and diving, tennis and volleyball. 

Here's your season ticket to Irish athletics ..... 
THE 1989-90 BLUE & GOLD CARD 
Join the Irish for a variety of top-notch 

varsity sports as Notre Dame hosts the best in college athletics. With a $10 purchase of the Blue & Gold Card, Notre Dame students gain free admission to all home games for soccer, volleyball, hockey, women's basketball, wrestling, 
baseball and lacrosse. 
The South Bend Marriott has joined the Notre Dame Athletic Department to present this offer to Irish fans. Besides entry to all home games for the above-mentioned sports, your Blue & Gold card entitles you to 20°/o off food purchases at the South Bend Marriott's Terrace Lounge and Looking Glass Restaurant and an informative monthly newsletter on Irish athletics. 
--------------...--------------------­
THE 1989-90 BLUE &GOLD CARD ORDER FORM 
ORDER YOUR CARD TODAY!! 
Send me --Blue & Gold Card(s) at this address: NAME _____________DAYTIME PHONE NO.________ 
ADDRESS _____________~~~--------~~~~-------------­
CIT...!Y_________________..:STATE.....________;ZIP CODE 
make checks payable to the University of Notre Dame 
Mail to: Notre Dame Blue & Gold Card; Athletic Marketing, Joyce ACC Notre Dame, IN 46556 Inquiries: call (219) 239-7362 
(for quicker service mail through the U.S. Post Office, not campus mail) 

ESTEE LAUDER 

Aug.  31  Virginia*  
Sept. 16  at Michigan  
Sept.23  MICHIGAN STATE  
Sept. 30  at Purdue  
Oct.  7  at Stanford  
Oct.  14  at Air Force  
Oct.  21  usc  
Oct.  28  PITTSBURGH  
Nov.  4  NAVY  
Nov. 11  SMU  
Nov.  18  at Penn State  
Nov.  25  at Miami  

* 1989 Kickoff Classic 


1989 Notre Dame Football Schedule 
The Observer I Laura Stanton 

Irish earn many honors during summer break 
Special to The Observer 
Winning the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tourna­ment in most unusual fashion, the Notre Dame baseball team advanced to the NCAA tourna­ment this spring for the first time since 1970. 
The Irish won one game be­fore being eliminated from the double-elimination NCAA West II Regional at Fresno, Calif. Notre Dame lost to host Fresno State 9-8 in the first round, failing to hold a ninth-inning 8­6 lead. Notre Dame later de~ feated Portland in extra in­nings, then fell to Fresno State 11-4. 
Wichita State, the eventual winner of the West II Regional, went on to capture the national championship. 
Notre Dame, which closed the 
season at 48-19-1, received an 
automatic bid to the NCAAs by 
taking the MCC tournament. It 
required an all-day, all-night 
effort by the Irish. 
After losing 16-15 to Detroit 
in the double-elimination tour­
nament, Notre Dame defeated 
Saint Louis 10-6. The Irish then 
Leaves Blush. Pumpkins Ripen. It must be time for A DAY IN THE COUNTRY 

East Rutherford, NJ Ann Arbor, Ml NOTRE DAME West Lafayette, IN Palo Alto, CA Colorado Springs, CO NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME University Park, PA Miami, FL 
faced Dayton in a game that did not begin until 1:38 a.m. because of rain delays. · 
The Irish prevailed 20-4 over the Flyers, in a game that did not end until well after 4 a.m., then took the championship by winning three games the following day. Notre Dame eliminated Evansville 11-2, then swept a pair of games from season-long nemesis Detroit. 
In all, Notre Dame won four 
games in  a  time-span of 22  
hours  to  earn  the  trip  to  
Fresno.  

Notre Dame outfielder Dan Peltier, who batted .453 with 15 home runs and 90 runs batted in, was a consensus first-team All-America selection. Peltier and pitcher Erik Madsen each earned second-team Academic All-America honors. 
Peltier now is a member of the Texas Rangers organiza­tion, which selected him in the third round of the professional draft in May. The Detroit Tigers selected shortstop Pat Pesavento in the 17th round. 
Baseball players were not the only Notre Dame athletes to earn honors over the summer. 
David DiLucia of the men's tennis team competed in the NCAA tournament, where he was eliminated in the first round. DiLucia, who posted a 38-9 singles record, was named Region IV Volvo Tennis Rookie of the Year. Teammate Dave Reiter was named to the Volvo Tennis Scholar Athlete team. Reiter had a 3.56 cumulative grade point average as a gov­ernm{mt major, while earning a career singles record of 62-51. 
Theresa Rice of the cross country team was named a first-team at-large Academic All-American by the College Sports Information Directors of America. Rice, an all-confer­ence runner for the Irish, re­ceived a 3.95 cumulative grade point average while pursuing two degrees in modern lan­guages and medieval studies. Rice is curently working toward her Ph.D. at Notre Dame in medieval philosophy. 
Ron Markezich, who had qualifed for the NCAA outdoor championships in the 5,000 me­ter run by setting a school record in the event, was forced to withdraw from the race due to a stress fracture in his leg. Markezich was seeded second in the NCAA field. 
The Observer 

~----~---~-------­
page 12 The Observer Saturday, August 26, 1989 
Coach 
continued from page 13 
ment last season under Lambert. The Irish went 19-12 and was among the final 16 teams left in the tournament. 
Jay Louderback: After coaching the Iowa State men's and women's tennis teams the past three seasons, Louderback debuts as the Notre Dame women's coach this year. 
Louderback has a 10-year ca­reer coaching record of 204­

179. Before his tenure at Iowa State, Louderback led the pro­gram at his alma mater Series. 
In two seasons at Notre Dame, MtJrphy has compiled a total record of 87-41-1, includ­ing a 48-19-1 mark last season. 
Digger Phelps: The win­ningest Notre Dame basketball coach of all time, Phelps has a 365-164 record in 18 years with the Irish. Phelps, whose actual first name is Richard, also is known a.s one of the most outspoken coaches in dis­cussing the relationship be­tween academics and athletics in collegiate sports. 
Phelps led the Irish to a Final Four appearance in the 1979­80 season. 
Joe Piane: The Notre Dame men's cross country team has finished among the nation's top 10 teams each of the past two seasons under Piane. The Irish placed ninth last fall despite in­jury problems and recorded a surprising seventh-place finish in 1987. 
Piane also coaches the men's track team and is in his 15th year directing both squads. 
Ric Schafer: A former player and assistant coach of the Notre Dame hockey team, Schafer is a third-year head coach trying to bring the pro­gram back to the stature it en­joyed a decade ago. 
The Irish posted a best-ever 27-4-2 record in Schafer's de­but season of 1987-88. Notre Dame slumped to 10-26-2 last season facing a much tougher schedule. 
Schafer coached for seven 
years at Alaska-Fairbanks be­
fore getting the head coaching 
job at Notre Dame. 
George Thomas: This 
Michigan City native is set to 
begin his second year as coach 
of the Notre Dame men's golf 
team. Thomas, the golf pro at 
Elkhart's Elcona Country Club, 
upgraded the team's schedule 
last spring in a season which saw the Irish show steady im­provement. 
Thomas has qualified for two 
U.S. Opens as a player and was the subject of a Sports Illustrated piece titled "A Nobody At the Open" in 1965. The article focused on Thomas because he was the player at the Open with the least amount of tour experience. 
Tim Welsh: After coaching both the men's and women's swim teams at Johns llopkins for eight years, Welsh is enter­ing this fourth year holding the same positions at Notre Dame. 
Wichita State. 
Fran McCann: The Notre Dame wrestling team finished 21st in the nation and had two 

l············~;tQ)jO)~~if~~············i
All-Americans, another step forward in McCann's plan to make the Irish one of the na­tion's elite. McCann has brought Notre Dame's program to national attention with his 

: Still need items for your room? : aggressive recruiting and scheduling. The Irish host tra­ditional powers Iowa and Oklahoma this year. 
: At the FALL MALL you can rent or purchase: :
Muffet McGraw: Despite an injury to top player Heidi Bunek, McGraw led the Notre 

: Furniture, Refrigerators, Carpets, Sweaters, Plants, : Dame women's basketball team to the NIT in her second year at 
: Posters, Computers, Elevated Beds, Pillows : 
the helm last winter. McGraw has a 41-19 record since arriv­

• and a whole lot more! •
ing at Notre Dame. 
Before coaching the Irish, McGraw led the Lehigh pro­gram to a total record of 88-41 in five years. 

: FALL MALL August 29 & 30 from noon-6 pm : 
Pat Murphy: The energetic Murphy led the Notre Dame 

: at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center : 
baseball team to its first NCAA tournament appearance since 1970 last spring and guided first-team All-American Dan Peltier. During the season, the Irish defeated Texas and 

=••••••Sponsored by the Student Union Board ••••••= Miami, which both advanced to the eight-team College World 
Open Daily 10-5:30pm Sat 10-5 Directions: _____.. g•NO -Edison ~ McKinley __..,..0 Mishawaka c.*  Carpet your dorm room with thick, beautiful carpet, but not empty your pocketbook! Sizes from 6x9, 12x7, 12x9, 12x12, 12x13, 12x14, 12x15, 12x16, 12x18, and up. Bring Your Measurements Visa and Mastercard accepted 234-5148  

Saturday, August 26, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Plenty of athletic facilities available for active students 
Special to The Observer 
From racquetball courts to golf courses, from skating rinks to swimming pools, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's cam­pus has the athletic facilities to fit the needs of any sports en­thusiast. 
The quads are available in the fall and spring for various ac­tivities, and there are plenty of indoor athletic shelters worth a visit during the winter months. 

Here is a list of facilities available to students on both campuses: 
Edmund P. Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center (JACC)-The double-domed Joyce ACC, located east of the football stadium, contains more area than the Houston Astrodome. 
The South Dome houses the basketball arena used by the men's and women's basketball teams, the volleyball team and 
Happy 21st Birthday Jim 

the Irish wrestlers. The hockey Rolfs Aquatic Center-This team's home ice is located in three-year-old natatorium, lo­the North Dome, also known as cated at the east end of the the Fieldhouse. The JACC JACC, features a 50-meter pool Auxiliary Gym, known as 'The which is usually divided into Pit' is between the domes. three sections during recre­
The building also contains ational swimming times. basketball, handball, racquet­ball, squash, tennis and volley­The diving section features ball courts that usually are three one-meter and two three­open to the public, the reserva­meter springboards. The recre­tions are required for most of ational swimming section is 25 the courts. yards in length and has eight 
For those interested in lanes for swimming laps. The Fighting Irish sports history, final section is used for water the Sports Heritage basketball and water polo.
Foundation, located on the sec­Angela Athletic Facility­ond floor between the domes, is Located north of McCandless home to many awards, pho­Hall on the Saint Mary's cam­tographs and momentos from pus, Angela includes basketball, Notre Dame's history. racquetball, volleyball and in-
For a great selection in gifts visit: 
The Country Harvester 
LaFortune Lower Level 239-6714 
Baskets, Crates, Potpourri, Cards, Candles 
''Idon't want 
alotof hype.Ijustwant something I can count on.~~ 

Some long distance companies promise you the moon, but what you really want is dependable, high-quality service. That's just what you'll get when you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at acost that's alot less than you think. You can expect low long distance rates, 24-hour operator assistance, clear connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. And the assurance that virtually all ofyour calls will go through the first time. That's the genius ofthe AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network. 
When it's time to choose, forget the gimmicks and make the intelligent choice-AT&T. 
Ifyouti like to know more about our products or services, like International Calling and the AT&T Card, call us at 1800 222-0300. 

ATs.T 
The right choice. 
door tennis courts, and also 
has a carpeted jogging track 
around the courts. 
Weight machines, fitness and 
gymnastic equipment also are 
housed in the facility, while 
more basketball and tennis 
courts are just outside the 
building. 
The facility is open to all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students upon the presentation of a student ID. Reservations are required for the racquetball courts. 
Eck Tennis Pavilion-This in­
door facility, completed in the 
fall of 1987, is the home court 
for the Notre Dame men's and 
women's tennis teams. Located 
east of the out door Courtney 
Courts, the Eck is country club 
quality, housing six laykold 
courts and an observation 
deck. 
Court time can be reserved in 75-minute blocks by calling 239-6929. The facility is cur­rently opened 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., but will stay open until 11 p.m. beginning in September. Fees are $1 for students, $2 for fac­ulty and staff and $4 for alumni and guests. 
Loftus Indoor Athletic Facility-This new facility east of Jake Kline Field houses an artificial-turf football field (Meyo Field), a six land, 300­plus meter track and an im­pressive varsity weight room. Loftus is used primarily for varsity team practices. 
Burke Memorial Golf Course-On the west end of the Notre Dame campus is the 18­hole, par 71 University golf course, which is open until late fall and reopens in early spring. 
During the winter, the course is occasionally opened for cross country skiing. 
Knute Rockne Memorial­Located at the west end of South Quad, 'The Rock' is the center for the physical educa­tion program. The brick struc­ture contains basketball courts, handball and racquetball courts, a weight room, a light apparatus room, a swimming pool and the golf pro shop. 
Use of the Rockne Memorial is free to all students and fac­ulty members upon presenta­tion of a University identifica­tion card. Closing time is 11 
p.m. daily. Regina Pool-This small swimming pool is located in the middle of Regina Hall on the Saint Mary's campus. Bookstore Courts-Notre Dame's renowned Bookstore Basketball, one of the largest tournaments in the world with nearly 700 teams participating 
each year, owes its name to these two courts. 
ND golf hosts tournament 
Notre Dame's varsity men's and women's golf teams, in conjunction with the Burke memorial Golf Course on campus, are hosting a golf tournament on Two successive weekends, September 9 and 10, and 16 and 17. 
The Notre Dame Campus Championship Golf Tournament is open to faculty, staff administration and students. 
The tournament is also an open tryout for the men's and women's varsity golf teams. 
Entry forms and information are available at the Burke Pro Shop or the Starters Hut. The entry fee is $5, and entries must be received by 5 p.m., 
______________. Monday, September 4. 
Meet the major names in ND sports 
Special to The Observer 
These are some of the major figures who will lead the University of Notre Dame Athletic Department in the 1989-90 school year: 
Father E. William Beauchamp: Beginning his third year as Notre Dame's ex­ecutive vice president, Beauchamp heads the faculty board in control of athletics. This body is responsible for overseeing Notre Dame athlet­
ics. 
Richard Rosenthal: A former two-time Notre Dame All­America basketball player, Hosenthal is in his third year as Notre Dame athletic director. Hosenthal's first two years at the position have seen the women's golf, soccer, softball and track teams gain varsity status. 

Hosenthal helped Notre Dame land a lucrative cable television package with Sports Channel America last May. 
Yves Auriol: In four seasons as Notre Dame women's fenc­ing coach, Auriol has guided his squad to one national team title and two national individual ti­tles. The Frenchman coached the United States Olympic teams in 1980, 1984 and 1988. 
Bob Bayliss: Since replacing Tom Fallon, who led the Notre Dame men's tennis team for 35 seasons, Bayliss has signifi­cantly upgraded the Irish schedule. 
Bayliss led his team to 19-9 season last year that included three victories over nationally­ranked opponents, and fresh­man David DiLucia reached the NCAA tournament. 
Brian Boulac: A former tight end on the Irish football team, Boulac coaches the women's softball team and serves as as­sistant athletic director. 
The softball team finished 31­23 in in its inaugural season last spring. 
Before gaining his adminis­trative duties, Boulac worked 13 years on the Notre Dame football coaching staff. 
Tim Connolly: A 1983 Notre Dame graduate, the 28-year­old Connolly is the second-year head coach of the women's cross country team. 
Kevin Corrigan: After barely missing an NCAA tournament berth in his debut season, Corrigan enters his second year as the Notre Dame lacrosse coach. 
JUST WHEN YOU NEED IT 
The Navy has S30.000 or more to help you finish your last two years of college. 
The Naval Rcser\"e Officers Tr.1.ining Corps (NROTC) Two­Year Scholarship Program can pay your ruilion, textbooks and ins1mclional fees, plus give you a momhly SIOO 1a.x-free allowance during your last 20 months of college. 
Upon graduation you'll be commissioned a Navy officer and enjoy the benefiiS and opponunilies offered, such as advanced education in any of the Navy's high-tech fields. 
NROTC two-year scholarships are highly competitive. Applications must be tumed in early in your sophomore year. For more information, see or call: 
LT Dan Cochran 
239-7274 
NAVY ROTC 
You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 


CARPET REMNANT SALE 
1,000 REMNANTS 10°/o TO 20°/o OFF 

Corrigan, the son of former ND athletic director Gene Corrigan, was an assistant coach at Virginia for two years before coming to Notre Dame. 
Mike DeCicco: This 1949 ND alum doubles as coach of the national power men's fencing team and academic advisor for all Notre Dame athletes. 
Much of the credit for Notre Dame's high graduation rate among its athletes goes to DeCicco, who assists more than 500 athletes. 
In 28 years as the Irish fenc­ing coach, DeCicco's teams have won national champi­onships in 1977, 1978 and 1986. 
Dennis Grace: The 36-year­old Grace led the Notre Dame soccer team to its first NCAA tournament appearance last fall without the benefit of a single scholarship. In the past two years, Grace's Irish hold a 1-0-1 record against rival Indiana. the 1988 national champion. 
Grace also assisted the women's soccer team in its in­augural season last year. 
Lou HoJtz: Famous for reestablishing the football pro­grams at North Carolina State, Arkansas and Minnesota, Holtz has done his best repair job yet at Notre Dame. 
In just three seasons under Holtz, the Irish have gone from a 5-6 season to a national championship. Holtz also has guided the Irish to consecutive appearances in New Year's Day bowls, coached a Heisman Trophy winner in Tim Brown and has led the Irish to a 31-30 grudge-match victory over arch-rival Miami. 
Holtz also has coached at William and Mary and had a one-year stint as head coach of the National Football Leagues's New York Jets. 
Art Lambert: The Notre Dame volleyball team made its first trip to the NCAA tourna­
see COACH I page 12 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTilUfiON OF THE UNITED STATES. 
TI-lE CONSTilUfiON 
'The \'V\.""~rds '"'<'lin·~· 
For tht facts call your local Red Cross. or writ<'· 
AIDS 
+
American Red Cross tm:: 
W..Shington. IX 20006 

Happy 18th Birthday Kim Cenedella 
We love you Mom, Dad, Maryann and Liz 

I 
I 
~ 
Saturday, August 26, 1989 The Observer page 15 
COMICS 
CROSSWORD 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
ACROSS 28 Record1ng ribbon

1 Site of a Miami 29 Acknowledge
PGA 
tournament 30 Double-bogey on a par-five 
6 Declare hole10 Intention 31 Australian bird 13 Sun-dried brick 34 British Open 14 Entice 
champ 1988 15 -time (never) 
38 Chemical suffix 16 Corners of 
39 October 

concern to birthstones 
carpenters 40 Prong18 Shakespearean 41 Cuts off 
king 42 Spinets, e.g. 
1~ Kind of well 44 House-to-house
20 Capital of Cuba poll22 Building wing 48-Simpson,23 Chewy candy 
Southern Open 24 Wanderers champ: 1985 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
CALVIN AND HOBBE$ 



49 Woodwind player 50 Sketching material 55 Evaluate 56 Lawful 58 Hole-in-one golf scores 59 Level 60 Strike 61 Cover 62 Withered 63 Hourly 
DOWN 
1 Facts 2 Scent 3 Subterranean 
plant part 4 Competent 5 Rented 6 Related to 
seaweeds 7Wound: 
Heraldry a Before, in poesy 9 Forms anew 23 Grottoes 33 Hires 45 Beaded 
10 TV series with 24 Outer-space 35 Gauchos' calculators Mr. T agcy. weapons 46 Famous 11 Foolish 25 Pizzeria fixture 
47 Contends 12 Ethical 26 Change location 
36 Christ's followers 48 Threefold 
15Thomas-27 Profound 
37 Seventh Greek 50 Ripening agent Edison respect letter 51 Bullets and 17 Zeros 28 Relates 42 The Great shells, for short 21 "Where there 30 Smacks Commoner 52 Couple -noTen 31 Leprechaun's 43 Mischievous 53 Kelt of comics Command­land 
ments. "· 32 Cosmetician 44-Gables 
54 Stagger Kipling Madeleine-(Miami suburb) 57 First woman 
~\\~ ON E.t>.Rrn WOULO 
'1CYJ Rf..~E.R G£1 fl.. "(" 1W>.N r>.N "fl.." f'! 

I'm g:>nna pound you G£1 'iOOR I<.IC.KS ~. 'iOO 
In g~rn c\Qss, s'nrimp. G\.A~~\lV..R fREf>.'l(, S£0.\ISE. ONC:t. '10J G~'+l UP ~00 CA.~'{ 00 &,r..\1N.6 !'£<:lPI.£ UP FoR 1'\0 R£/>.SON! 
Welcome, you're now a part of the many fine traditions of the University of Notre Dame, among which is the rich history of Fighting Irish football. Under the leadership of Coach Lou Holtz, ND football has recap­tured the magic and makeup of champions! Here, in CHAMPIONS, is the full, remarkable story of how Coach Holtz returned the glory to the Blue & Gold's gridiron. 
Written by the South Bend Tribune's Bill Bilinski, the sportswriter closest to the Notre Dame football scene for the last 5 years, CHAMPIONS is an attractive 208-page, $16.95 hardcover, featuring 16 pages of photos and a foreword by Lou Holtz. For Fighting Irish Tradition 101, it's recommended reading not only for every 
freshman...but for everyone! Available in the book department of the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE ''CHAMPIONS makes an excellent fan's keepsake.'!.._USA Today
AFAN'S BEST FRIEND 

''Bill BililUiki's fine book really captures the magic ofan unbelievable
A publication of Diamond Communications, Inc. 
season. All Notre Dame falUI will enjoy it.'!_Lou Holtz
South Bend, Indiana 
BILL WATIERSON 


I 1'=1~0 M~ LIF£ 1'5 A LOT £1\SI~R 1\\£ LOWER l ~.t.EP £VtR'iOt-lt'5 'EXI>t.Gf>.i\ON.S. 
\1-1~1 REM.l~ \'j~S~'I 't\\\~1 l 'to\tl'l~i ~~ M.l... 
-. 

Sports
page 16 Saturd!Y· August 26, 1989 
Irish will begin title defense without several key players 
THERESA KELLY Sports Editor 
Hepeating as National Champions is difficult enough, but the first week of fall drills proved how tough the task facing the Notre Dame football team will bP. 
Seven players on the first and seeond teams left the team for various reasons, including 1988 All-American linebacker Mike Stonebreaker and the second­leading ground gainer for the Irish. tailback Tony Brooks. 
"I thought we had a chance to return as an excellent football team," said Irish head coach I.ou Holtz. "but we lost some exeellent players. Now I don't know. Right now, we are not what I would call an excellent football team." 
Stonebreaker violated the
--......_....
' ­

conditions of his University probation by driving on eampus. The probation was the 
Tony Brooks 
result of a drunk driving incident late last winter. Ile has indicated he will stay at Notre Dame and graduate with his 
?~~~-... 
........... ~-~ ~ ·#-­
~ ,--~ 
........ 
~~
.. .. ­

it's only a matter of time before legendary Notre Dame Stadium becomes this full with students, alumni and subway alumni ~inging the Victory March and cheering on the defending 
class in May. miss the 1989 season due to a Brooks withdrew in the knee injury. Banks can spring and was not permitted petition for another year ol 

Michael Stonebreaker George Williams 
re-entry into the University. He eligibility for next season. 
reportedly will reapply next Defensive standout George year. Backfield mate Braxston Williams is academically Banks, a fullback, will also ineligible for participation this 
.......---­
~""'1~......~ 
File Photo 
national champions. The Fighting Irish football team opens its 
home schedule Sept. 23 against Michigan State. Five of Notre 
Dame's 112 games are at home.. 
ND fall sports teams have tough act to follow 
Special to The Observer 
Even if the football team had not won the national champi­onship, I988 would have been considered a banner year for Notre Dame's first-semester sports. 
The volleyball and men's soc­cer team each received their first invitations to NCAA tour­nament play. The women's soc­cer team went 13-6-1 in its in­augural season. The wrestling team finished a best-ever 21st place in the nation. And the men's cross country squad placed in the top 10 for a sec­ond consecutive year. 
Judging from each of those team's schedules. the 1989 fall season could be just as interesting for Notre Dame athletics. 
Men's soccer: The defending Midwestern Collegiate Conference champions open the season at the Indiana Classic in Bloomington, where the Irish face Virginia and MCC foe Saint Louis. 
,.. 
Notre Dame's home schedule will include defending national champion Indiana and MCC ri­val Akron. The Irish also will travel to the West Coast to face Cal. State-Los Angeles and Santa Clara. 
The MCC tournament cham­pion receives an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament this season. The Irish reached the NCAAs last year and were elim­inated by Southern Methodist in the first round. 
Notre Dame loses its two all­time leading scorers this fall in Bruce "Tiger" McCourt and Handy Morris, but standout keeper Danny Lyons returns for his senior season. 
Women's soccer: After faring impressively in its inaugural season, an upgraded schedule this fall includes Duke and Virginia of the Atlantic Coast Conference and Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan of the Big Ten. 
The Irish no longer face Saint Mary's. Notre Dame won and tied in its two meetings with the Belles last year. 
Wrestling: Irish coach Fran McCann sent his team to the Soviet Union over the summer to face some top international competition. 
Over the winter, the Joyce ACC will be welcoming some of the most traditionally success­ful collegiate programs in the United States. 
Iowa, which has won nine NCAA titles in the last decade, comes to Notre Dame on Feb. 
25. Oklahoma, one of the best teams in the wrestling-rich Big Eight Conference, will visit on Jan. 8. 
The Irish also will host Ohio State and Purdue, and will travel to Nebraska. 
The wrestling team opens its season in the first semester, but the season highlights come after the winter holidays. For the men's and women's basket­ball teams, the schedule looks difficult in both semesters. 
Men's basketball: Every sin­gle player from last year's 21-9 team returns to Notre Dame 
this season. Monty Williams, a 6-7 all-state forward at Maryland, will join them. 
The Irish play 13 games against teams that competed in last year's NCAA tournament. Notre Dame hosts Georgia Tech, UCLA and Missouri, while the Irish will visit Indiana, LaSalle, Duke and Syracuse. 
The schedule includes a pair of feature dates -a meeting with Louisville at the Hoosier Dome Dec. 2 in the Big Four Classic and a contest with LSU 
Jan.  20  at  the  New  Orleans  
Superdome.  
Women's  basketball:  The  

fireworks start early for the Irish this season. Defending na­tional champion Tennessee comes to the JACC on Dec. 3. The Irish, looking for their first-ever bid to the NCAA tournament, will travel to Old Dominion on Jan. 12. 
The Irish return seven mono­gram winners from last year's squad. 
year. lie will remain at Notre Dame. Defensive end Arnold Ale has transferred from Notre Dame to UCLA. Linebacker .John Foley has not recovered from a bicep injury sul'l'ercd in the Cotton Bowl in 1988 and has retired from football. Finally, offensive taekle Petfl Hausch, a junior. left the team August 11. 
"That's an awful lot of talent to lose," lloltz said, "especially if you're trying to replace it with people who have only btwn here 18 days." 
"I think it may have hurt the morale at first," said Irish tri­eaptain Ned Bolcar. "I don't know if we can really replace what we've lost, but we have guys who can eome in and play well." 
NO football ticket sales on the way 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame athletir dP­partment ticket oflicc has an­nouneed procedures for 1989 season football ticknt sah~s to students. Ticket applirations will hi' in Notre Dame studl'nt mailboxes early rwxt wet~k. and Saint Mary's students will receive their applications at registration. 
Any students who do not re­ceive their applications by Thursday, Aug. ;{ 1, should get in touch with the tickt~t office to receive a copy of the appli­cation form. Students who do not have a local (Michiana­area) address should also 
contact  the  ticket  office  for  
their applications.  
Distribution  begins  

Tuesday, Sept. 5, at the Joyce ACC ticket booth, with seniors getting first shot at 50-yard line seats. This year's prices for the five-game home season are $57.50 for Notre Dame students and $77 for Saint Mary's students. All applications must be accompanied by student IDs. 
The windows will be open from 1:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. September 5th through thll 8th. Juniors can get their tickets September 6, sopho­mores, law students and grad students September 7, and freshmen September 8. One student may bring as many as four applications and IDs. Married students may pur­chase tickets for spouses at the student price, but proof of marriage is required. 
The 1:30 starting time is in­tended to reduce the ne!ld for overnight lines, according to Associate Ticket Manager Jim Bell. 
"Camping over is discour­aged," Bell said. "In the mornings, we'll be as flexible as we can be as long as the lines are orderly and the area is kept clean. But we don't need the furniture and stuff out all night like we've had in the past." 
Security will be on duty at the Joyce ACC during the ticket distribution process. 






