

VOL. XXIII NO. 64 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp 
Browsing and buying 

Saint Mary's students Sarah Burke (left) and Greer Gilliland (right) sell a pair of Notre Dame gloves to Kim Lederman at the Saint Mary's Christmas Bazaar held in the lobby of Lemans Hall Tuesday. 
Rifleman kills 14 and wounds 12 in Montreal 
MONTREAL (AP) -A young rifleman invaded the University of Montreal engineering school on Wednesday and singled out females for his targets, killing 14 women and wounding 12 people before committing sui­cide, police said. 
Montreal Police Director Claude St. Laurent said the killer, clad in a hunting outfit, rushed into a packed classroom on the second floor and yelled in French, "You're all a bunch of feminists!" before beginning his murderous rampage. 
Witnesses said the man di­vided the students in the class­room by sex and sent the men into the corridor before open­ing fire on the women. 
Six women were shot dead in that room, and a seventh in an­other room. Then the man, car­rying what looked like a .22 
caliber rifle, left in search of more victims, St. Laurent said. 
The gunman prowled the halls, killing three women in the cafeteria and four more women in the corridor of the third floor, where he then shot him­self. 
One police officer called to the scene found his daughter was among the dead. 
St. Laurent at one point told reporters police were looking for two accomplices but said later he was mistaken and the man acted alone. 
"I saw the bodies of the peo­ple who were slain -they were all women," said Louis Courville, director of the engi­neering school, his voice shak­ing. 
One student said a bullet 
see SHOOT I page 5 

Aquino declares emergency state in Manila Wednesday 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­President Corazon Aquino de­clared a state of emergency Wednesday and evoked the "people power" revolution in appealing for support against mutinous soldiers bent on over­throwing her government. 
"I am telling you now that I have put so much at stake for democracy: I have lost my hus­band," Mrs. Aquino said in a nationally televised address, appearing tired on the sixth day of an attempted coup. 
"Why did I become pn~sident? It was because you believed in me. and in spite of all of the coup attempts. you have stuck by me" against enemies who want "to kill me ... so that they can rule our land," she said. 
Mrs. Aquino's husband, Be­nigno Aquino Jr., was slain in 1983 as he arrived from self-imposed exile in the United States to challenge President Ferdinand Marcos. She took his place as the opposition presi­dential candidate and was swept into office in February 1986 by a civilian-military uprising. 
After her speech Wednesday, the government announced that Mrs. Aquino had proclaimed a national state of emergency, giving her broad powers to cope with the rebellion launched Friday by thousands of soldiers. 
On Wednesday, rebels still held parts of the Makati finan­cial district in Manila and the Mactan Air Base in Cebu, 350 miles south the capital. At least 79 people have been reported killed and more than 570 wounded since Friday. 
The emergency declaration came after a cease-fire ar­ranged by rebel and loyalist forces so about 1,800 foreign­ers, including about 250 Ameri­cans, could be evacuated from Makati, scene of heavy fighting since Saturday. 
In Washington, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater 


Salvadorian plane destroyed 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador lAP)­Leftist guerrillas shot down a military observation plane, and scattered lighting killed live rebels and two gov­ernment soldiers, the army said Wednesday. 
The 0-2 observation plane was shot down by rebel rifle fire Tuesday near the town of Ozatlan, 88 miles southeast of the capital, killing the pilot, the army said. 
The rebel clandestine Radio Venceremos said the plane -the second downed in the past month ­was shot down as it was firing rockets at rebel position. 
An A-37 jet fighter-bomber was similarly shot down by the rebels Nov. 18 in the eastern province of San Miguel. 
The Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front broadcast said the rebels have damaged 23 government aircraft during a new offensive they launched Nov. 11, but the claim could not be independently verified and military sources refused to confirm or deny it. 
30 Notre Dame women visit SMC 
By ALISSA MURPHY 
News Writer 
Approximately 30 sophomore Notre Dame women attended a get­acquainted dinner at Saint Mary"s on Tuesday and Wednesday this week. 
The dinner took place at Saint Mary's dining hall and provided an opportunity for a social exchange between Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s women. On Wednesday night the Notre Dame women were taken on a brief tour of the campus. 
"An Impression of St. Mary's," was the theme of an invitation to all sopho­more Notre Dame women to dine and experience life at Saint Mary's. 
The Saint Mary's sophomore student government board described the event as an effort to break some of the nega­tive stereotypes between schools by inviting Notre Dame women to dinner and giving them the opportunity to visit the campus. 
Wendy Garret. vice-president of the St. Mary's sophomore class, described the event as "giving both St. Mary's and Notre Dame women an opportunity to interact and the first step in trying to break the barriers". 
Earlier this week board members vis­ited the Notre Dame dorms inviting sophomores to visit campus. 
Liz Tootley, the sophomore represen­tative for Walsh stated, "I thought it was a great idea, I only wish that more Notre Dame girls had taken the oppor­tunity to do it." 
The Saint Mary's sophomore board has been discussing plans for another activity with the Notre Dame women to occur next semester, with the possibility of a lecture pertinent to women. 
said the the U.S. Embassy "is working to help these individu­als with their travel plans." He said the evacuation was man­aged without incident, and "all Americans were reported safe and we have no reports of in­juries." 
Rebel leaders, angered by 
U.S. military support for Mrs. Aquino, said Tuesday some Americans might be held, and on Wednesday threatened those who remain in the country. 
After the evacuation, rebel and army representatives be­gan talks on ending the rebel­lion. Sporadic sniping resumed, but the cease-fire generally held through the day. 
It was unclear what new powers Mrs. Aquino would have. Cabinet officials insisted personal liberties would not be curtailed, but said special pow­ers were needed to deal with the economic and social crisis caused by the coup. 
Public confidence has been shaken far more than by any of the five other coup attempts. 
Jose Fernandez, governor of the Central Bank, said Wednes­day two billion pesos ($91 mil­lion) had been withdrawn in runs on Manila banks in the past two days and many parts of the archipelago had cash shortages because domestic air service had been suspended. 


AP Photo 


Only catching air 
A sweat shirt-clad pup named Madison Rockwell misses a frisbee tossed high into the chilly air Tuesday in Philadelphia, where milder temperatures are forecast for the next few days. 
-
INSIDE COLUMN 
~­

page 2 
Careful readers are aware of world events 

golden opportunity to expand our world, but often we only read the comics and toss them away. 
Newspapers and news magazines come to our doors every 
day with all the 
information to put us Liz Panzica in touch with events, Business Editor but we are somehow--------­too busy expanding our educational horizons on Aristotle to take a couple minutes to read it. By neglecting current events we are forgetting the very reason we are in school. 
Education gives us the tools and ability to 
piece together the events around us in an 
intelligent manner. Teachers aren't here to 
tell us exactly what happened and 
newspapers don't clearly lay out why things 
happen. 
As educated adults it is up to us to take 
the information around us and draw our 
own conclusions. We can't do that without 
media or education. The two go hand in 
hand. 
It is not a coincidence that The Wall 
Street Journal, The New York Times, 
Newsweek magazine and the likes offer 
student rates. These publications are 
creating their future market. Don't think 
the discount is out of charity. No, the big 
boys know better. Reading habits formed in 
college follow us through life. 
Students often feel as if they don't have time to be informed right now, but when they get out of college they will have the time to read the paper every morning. That is a very unlikely scenario. If we are lazy now, we will never get motivated. There is no excuse for a student at a nationally acclaimed university to be ignorant of current affairs. 
Television does a great job bringing a little information to a lot of people. A six­second blip on a television screen, however, doesn't make one enlightened. Television should really just give the base and newspapers and magazines can fill in the details. Yet most of America is content to let the tube do it all. 
Newspapers, magazines and TV should not be considered completely objective. People write for the media and try as they might to avoid it, they cannot be totally without biases. When reading, it's admirable to be skeptical, but never indifferent. 
But an educated populace, as a campus should be, ought to be able to sort through everything the media brings it. Knowledge doesn't come only from a textbook. 
Newspapers always give background on an occurrence, if you read the stories to the end. If you stop at the third paragraph and skip to Calvin and Hobbes you're not going to find out how the chain of events got started. 
Only an avid newspaper reader would have made it this far, so go ahead, you deserve it -turn to Calvin and Hobbes. 

P0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 ElusirEss
Greg Lucas Today's Staff: 
Liz Panzicia Malt Gallagher Dave Klawiter John O'Brien 
Mike Kolar Production Tricia Grohman 
Accent 
Jeanne Blasi 
Barbara Bryn Colleen Cronin Day Slaff
VIewpoint 
John Wa~on
Christine Walsh 
Erin Shirtzinger 
Janice O'Leary Ad Dlllllgn Katie Foster Jeanne Naylor Sheila Jones Systems 
Sports
Shannon Roach Molly Schwartz Steve MegargeeDsn Towers 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS publ1shed Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS a member ol the Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 
The Observer Thursday, December 7, 1989 
WEATHER 
Yesterday's high: 39 Yesterday's low: 22 Nation's high: 92 Woodland Hills, Cal. Nation's low: -6 Hulton, Me. 
Forecast: 
Partly sunny and much colder today. Highs in the lower 20s. Partly cloudy and cold tonight. Lows around 10. Partly sunny and not as cold Friday. Highs in the upper 20s. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1s Associated Press Graph1csNet 


OF INTEREST 

A lunch for El Salvador is being served at the Women's Plight in the Church will be the topie of 
C.S.C. from 11:30 to 1 :30p.m. All proceeds will benefit two a videotape at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. parishes in El Salvador. Come enjoy good food and help a Theresa Kane, previous President of the Leadership Con­good cause. ference of Women Religious, will reflect on the plight of 
women in the Church. 

Fiesta music and fun will accompany the Super CPT Pickering, U.S. Army, will discuss medical Combo Pan Americano at Theodore's December 9, 8:30 school opportunities under the Health Professional to 1 a.m. Scholarship Program at 4:30 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy auditorium. 
WORLD 

Nearly a year after a bomb blew apart Pan It was not a happy landing for Nigeria's Am Flight 103 over Scotland and killed 270 people, foreign minister. As the private jet carrying Maj.-Gen. little has been done to improve airport security Ike Nwachukwu descended over Lusaka, Zambia worldwide, according to a report published Wednesday International Airport on Nov. 16, the pilot broke the from London. Paul Wilkinson, the author of the report news: the runway landing lights were off, the airport and an expert on international terrorism, said obsolete was dark and there was no response from the control security measures cannot detect modern plastic tower. The crew managed to call the airport fire explosives used by terrorists. "We are way behind in station and made and emergency landing, aided by the taking the necessary measures that will help to prevent lights from four fire trucks President Kenneth Kaunda this kind of tragedy happening again," said Wilkinson, set up a commission to investigate the affair. The a professor at Scotland's University of St. Andrews. state-owned Times of Zambia reported on the inquiry 
in its Wednesday editions. 
NATIONAL 

A man wearing two gold chains around his holds the world rights to "Gone with the Wind," had neck, several gold rings and a diamond ear stud asked sought $833,000 from Ms. Deforges and her publisher, for a court-appointed attorney, but a judge denied the Editions Ramsay. "Let's put it this way: 'The Blue request and told him to sell his jewelry in Wichita, Bicycle' is a historical novel smattered with psychology Kansas. Terry Franklin, 20, appeared Tuesday in Wi­and emotion while 'Gone With the Wind' is a chita Municipal Court on two misdemeanor marijuana pyschological novel cloaked with history," he said. possession charges and a count of illegal gambling. "I . just said, 'If you want an attorney, sell your jewelry.' Prostitute Stephen Gobie testified behind This guy was dressed so nice and had all of this gold closed doors for more than four hours Wednesday in jewelry on that I thought he ought to hire his own," Washington, DC about his relationship with Rep. Judge Thomas Bush said. Barney Frank, D-Mass., a man Gobie called "one of the 
best people" in Congress. Appearing without an 
Charged with plagiarizing the classic "Gone attorney before two members of the House ethics with the Wind" was novelist Regine Deforgrs of Paris, committee, Gobie told reporters, ''I've got nothing to France for her best-seller "The Blue Bicycle," a court hide." The committee chairman, Rep. Julian Dixon, D­ruled Wednesday, ordering her and her publisher to Calif., said Gobie's statements under oath did not pay Margaret Mitchell's heirs $333,000 in damages extend the committee's investigation to any other and interest. The American Trust Co. Bank, which members of Congress. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC 
On December 7: 
e In 1787: Delaware became

Vice President Dan Quayle has a 
the first state to ratify the Con­"strange" attitude toward the Soviet Union and stitution.

appeared to be standing still in a fast-moving world, a Foreign Ministry spokesman from Moscow said Wednesday. Gennady Gerasimov, e In 1941: The Japanese at­reacting to a Quayle interview in The Washington tack Pearl Harbor. Post on Tuesday, said the vice president resisted 
S&P Composite

adapting to the changes taking place in the Soviet Union. In the interview, Quayle said, "You're still 348.55 ..(1 1.03 e In 1972: Apollo 17, the last dealing with a totalitarian government" that Dow Jones Industrials of the Apollo moon series was wants to "create instability" in other nations. "I 2736.77 ..(1 4.91 launched. don't think they've changed much in foreign pol­
Precious Metals

icy," Quayle was quoted as saying.'' 
e In 1979: President Carter
Gold '1) $1.40 to $404.90 1oz. 

replaces NRC Chairman Joseph Silver'!) 2.2¢ to $5.555 I oz. Hendrie with John Ahearne. 
Source: AP 



Thursday, December 7, 1989 
The Observer page 3 

AP Photo

More questions? 
Romanian gymnast Nadia Comaneci sticks out her tongue playfully at a press conference in Hollywood, Fla. early Tuesday. The recently defected Comaneci told the media that she hopes to settle down in South Florida with her friend Constantin Panait, also a defector from Romania. 
KIEV, U.S.S.H. (AP}-Presi­dent Francois Mitterrand of France met with Mikhail Gor­bachev on Wednesday and sounded a note of caution later about German reunification. 
He flew to Kiev, the Ukrainian capital 465 miles south of Moscow, for a six­hour working visit and talks with Gorbachev about the polit­ical changes in Eastern Europe. The Soviet president briefed Mitterrand on his two-day Malta summit with President Bush. 
Mitterrand later told a joint news conference West Germany must be more firmly anchored to its European partners. 
"The evolution of the East 
must lead the West toward its 
own structures," he said. 
Gorbachev said he and the 
French president had a 
"substantial discussion" on the 
future of Germany, which di­
vided into two nations after 
World War II. 
On Tuesday in Moscow, Gor-




SMC board discusses hall chapel renovation 
By COLLEEN TRAVERS 
News Writer 
The possibility of celebrating mass again following chapel renovations in Le Mans Hall was discussed at Wednesday's Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance meeting. 
Henovations of the chapel are currently underway and will be completed by the end of Febru­ary. 
Generally, students' reactions have bem1 supportive to the prospect of mass being held there. Some students feel that it is the only traditional chapel on campus and should be used not only for mass but also as a place for quiet reflection, said board members. 
However, according to board 
member Amy Hushin, Campus 
featuring... BAR-B-QUE Jamaican/American Cuisine 
Ministry is less than enthusias­tic about the idea. "They really don't want mass there at all," she said. 
Saint Mary's Campus Ministry claims that the space is too long and narrow. "It is very hard to get priests to do mass there,"said Rushin. 
Campus Ministry stressed that nothing has been decided and further discussions will be underway, Hushin added. 
Also discussed were plans for the Wellness Program, which will deal with promoting better health of the mind, body, and spirit. It has not yet been de­cided where the Wellness center will be located. Some possibili­ties suggested were the Haggar College Center or the Hegina Hall basement. 
RIBS RIB TIPS CHICKEN 


Location: Corner of Main & Fifth Niles, Ml 683-3317 
NOTRE DAME PARENTS 
HAVE YOUR SON OR DAUGHTER LIVE IN A CONDOMINIUM WHILE AT SCHOOL *1 mile from Notre Dame *New Construction *Tax Abatement *Security Systems *A Profitable Investment *Many Tax Benefits 
call TARIPP DEVELOPMENT CORP. Contact Christopher Matteo 
(219) 232-8256 

Gorbachev meets with Mitterrand in Russia 
bachev told the West German foreign minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the Soviet Union re­gards East Germany as a "faithful ally, important guar­antor of peace and stability in Europe." In Kiev, he said Mit­terrand's visit had not changed his view. 
The Soviet position has been that the existence of two Ger­manys has helped stabilize Eu­rope since the war. 
In restating it, Gorbachev said: "Any artificial prodding and pushing of this question (German reunification} could only make the processes taking place more difficult." 
He did not rule out the possi­bility of a unified German in the future, but said the issue was "not topical" now. 
Mitterrand holds the revolv­ing chairmanship of the 12-na­tion European Community. He has voiced support for the pos­
see KIEV I page 4 


Return from Malta 
APPhoto 

President Bush is applauded by members of his Cabinet and senior staff Tuesday as he arrived to convene a Cabinet meeting at the White House. Bush arrived back in Washington last night from Malta where he met with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. 

Gene coding for brain function discovered 
NEW YORK (AP) -Re-cells, and when it is exposed to tor studies may lead to devel­searchers have found the first a substance called glutamate, it opment of drugs that limit gene of a type crucial for brain makes the cell more prone to brain damage from strokes, 
'==-
Ih-= " e=Obse_"_" _rwr___ The Accent Staff 
is looking for a few intellectually Hip people to fill the following positions: 
1. 
Copy Editor 

2. 
Assistant Accent Editor 


Call John Blasi·at The Observer, 239-5303. 
head injury or repeated 
seizures, and to new under­
standing about learning and 
memory, the scientists said. 
Heinemann and colleagues at 
the Salk Institute for Biological 
Studies in San Diego report in 
Thursday's issue of the British 
journal Nature that they iso­
lated key portions of a rat glu­
tamate receptor gene. 
The same issue carries re­
ports of similar findings in 
frogs and chicks by scientists 
at the Salk Institute, the Na­
tional Institutes of Health in 
Bethesda, Md., and the Weiz­
~eahno~o~~~~~t:~~ of Science in 
Stevens wrote an editorial ac­companying the reports. 
In a telephone interview, Heinemann said his group went on to isolate the entire gene. Finding the human counter­parts of rat glutamate receptor genes for further research should be relatively easy, he said. 
He said he hopes the work will lead to finding the gene for another type of glutamate re­ceptor, called the NMDA recep­tor because it binds to a man­made chemical called N-methyl­0-aspartate. 

function, an advance that could lead to improved treatment for strokes and better understand­ing of how the brain learns and remembers, scientists say. 
"This discovery is extremely important, ' ' commented Charles Stevens of Yale Medical School. 
The gene is one of several that tell brain cells how to make a protein called a gluta­mate receptor. The receptor sits on the surface of brain fire off messages to neighbor­ing brain cells. 
That process is a fundamen­tal regulator of brain cell communication. 
The new discovery can be used to find genes for the other kinds of glutamate receptor, said study co-author Stephen Heinemann. Finding the gene is a first step toward studying a receptor's structure and behav­ior. 
Eventually, glutamate recep­
-----~------------­
Sandinista newspaper threatens Honduras 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) 
-Honduras "will pay" for al­
lowing Contra rebels to remain 
on its territory, the official 
Sandinista newspaper Barri­
r.ada said Wednesday. 
Tho newspaper's warning 
came a day after a regionally 
approved deadline for disman­
tling the U.S.-backed rebels 
passed. It was also issued the 
same day the Bush administra­
tion said the rebels should re­
main wh1~re they are ber.ause 
Nicaragua has not met its part 
of the regional accords. 
Honduras claims Nicaraguan 
f'ore!JS have been massing on 
the border near the Contra 
camps. 
The ruling Sandinista paper also said Wednesday that El Salvador will be "fanning the fire" of its 1 0-year-old civil war unless it finds a negotiated so­lution. Leftist rebels in that country are battling a U.S.­baeked right-wing government. 
The editorial in Barricada re­flected a sentiment, expressed in private conversations by government and party officials, that Nicaragua has been fulfill­ing its part of regional peace pacts, while other countries have not. 
Undnr thn Aug. 7 accord rnaehed by Cnntral American presidents in Tela, Honduras, tho Contras were supposed to 
Kiev 
continued from page 3 
sibility of a united Cormany, but on Wednesday seenwd to say Wnsl Cormany should par­ticipate in movns the French lnadnr champions for a more unilnd Western Europe. 
"The most urgent question is to strengthen the European Community," Millerrand said. "This will establish a new ele­mont in the European reality." 
lie has pushed for a federal Europe that would tie the economies of Common Markel nations dosnr together through voluntarily dismantle their Honduras jungle camps by Dec. 
5. In exchange, Nicaragua moved up the date of its presi­dential elections to Feb. 25. 
However, the rebels were not part of the Tela accord and have said they will go home only after a general amnesty or the elections. 
The Barrir.ada editorial said Honduras's "old practice of turning a dnaf ear and a blind eye" to the presence of the Con­tras is a "boomerang" that hurts Honduras, not Nicaragua. 
It said Honduras' president­elect, Rafael Leonardo Callejas, already was feeling pressure from Hondurans to oust the Contras. The editorial praised Callejas, saying he was echoing Nicaragua's call for disbanding the Contras. 
"If the Contras continue in Honduras, it will be lfonduras which will pay now for the bro­ken dishes of its godfathering" the rebels, the editorial said. It did not elaborate. 
U.S. officials have expressed fears that Nicaragua might in­vade Honduras in an effort to wipe out the Contras. 
monetary union by the mid­1990s, and eventually a single 
curn~ncy. 
Germany invaded both France and lhP Soviet Union in World War II, and Mitterrand said current German rulers must consider the opinions of other EuropP.an nations on the reuni­fication issue. 
It is premature now to think of redrawing boundaries, he said, and appeared to give Gor­bachev a pledge that France would seek restraint from West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl on German confederation. 

---Ih--e-Obse----. ~~r--A.-=Y:.'-' -­
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement to Matt Gallagher (239-5303) no later than noon on Friday, December 8, 1989. A decision will be posted in The Observer office bv Monday December 11 1989 
Happy Birthday. 
[M]@~!! 
Party 'til you drop! 
Love. )en. Doe. La. Dad. Ma. Tom. Kathy. Johnny.Timmy. Mikczy. Bwian. and of coorse Me 


AP Photo

Taking shape 
Kevin Massey of Bowling Green, employee of S.R. Blanton Construction, carries two boxes of nails to the second floor of a house being built at The Courtyard, a part of the residential development at Hartland. 
Merrill Lynch, a leader in the financial services industry is seeking college students with leadership p;:>tential to join the Corporate Systems Progrcnn. This 14-week Business Applications Training Class provides you with the business and technical knowledge to become a business applications programmer. Throughout the progrcnn, there is.a strong emphasis not only on developing technical skills, but also on developing leadership skills and the ability to effectively work as pent of a team. 
What We Look For 

This unique progrcnn is designed for a select group of individuals with undergradu­ate majors in computer science, engineering, mathematics. management iniormation systems or liberal arts, with a serious interest in pursuing a ccrreer in computer technolo­gy and business applications progrcnnming. Evaluation of candidates will focus on proven leadership skills and superior performance in academic, extracurricular and work envi­ronments. We are looking for motivated individuals with the desire and p;:>tential to contribute to our technological push into the 21st century. 
Corporate Systems Program Will be on CampusJanucny 29, 1990 to conduct interviews 
Interested students are invited to obtain more iniormation from the Placement Office. 
~Merrill Lynch
A tradition of trust. Merrill Lynch is an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer. 

-----~--­
Thursday, December 7, 1989 page 5
The Observer 

J 
i J 
i , I
.. ' .
) '• 
-i 
' j 
AP Photo
Parents testify 
Janey Fair, whose daughter Shannon was one of the 27 people killed in the Carrollton bus crash, testifies in the Larry Mahoney murder trial, Tuesday in Carrollton, Ky. Parents of 17 children and relatives of two adults testified in the trial Tuesday. 
Palestinian barred from West Bank 
.JERUSALEM (AP) -The leading spokesman for Pales­tinians was barred Wednesday from entering the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and Israeli De­fense Minister Yitzhak Rabin said the Arab uprising might last another two years. 
Troops opened fire in the West Bank town of Nablus to disperse demonstrators, wounding eight Palestinians, hospital officials said. Six Arabs were shot by troops in stone-throwing clashes in Gaza, they said. 
The army imposed a curfew that will confine Gaza's 750,000 residents to their homes beginning Thursday to head off possible protests Fri­day, when the uprising enters its third year. A similar curfew was expected for the West Bank. 
Soldiers also demolished three houses of Palestinians suspected in attacks on Israeli soldiers and civilians. 
Palestinian spokesman Faisal Husseini, who lives in the Arab sector of Jerusalem annexed by Israel, was banned by the army from entering the occupied ter­ritories for six months. He ac­cused authorities of trying to increase tension among Pales­tinians in the occupied territo­ries. 

The army orders said the travel ban against Husseini, 49, was taken "for the sake of en­suring public peace, the defense of the area and the establish­ment of public order." 
A military official said Hus­setm was involved in "incitement against the author­ities, against the army." The official. who insisted on anonymity, gave no details. 
Husseini, a pro-PLO activist, was released from prison in January after being held for 18 months without charge or trial. 
35 killed in Bogota truck bomb incident 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) -A truck bomb containing half a ton of dynamite exploded out­side secret police headquarters during the morning rush hour Wednesday, killing at least 35 people and wounding hundreds. 
The bomb, presumably the work of drug gangs, was the most powerful to strike the capital since Colombia's cocaine traffickers began a wave of terror after the government declared war on them 16 weeks ago. 
A spokesman for President Virgilio Barco said the bombing might be the start of a new campaign of mass killings by the drug traffickers, but that the government would fight on. 
The blast, which tore open a crater 20 feet deep and de­stroyed or heavily damaged a score of buildings, occurred less than 24 hours after gov­ernment investigators said a bomb caused the crash of a Colombian jetliner last month that killed 107 people. 
No one claimed responsibility directly for Wednesday's explo­sion, but Gen. Faruk Yanine, Bogota police chief, said it was undoubtedly the work of drug traffickers. 
A statement from the so­called Extraditables delivered to newspapers and radio sta­tions in Medellin, base of the most powerful drug cartel, said: "We will stop the war only when the Senate understands the people must be our judge." 
The reference was to a bill that would permit a national referendum on extraditing drug trafficking suspects wanted in the United States. The House of Representatives approved it Tuesday night. 
Barco's government opposes 
the measure, contending the 
drug barons would step up ter­
rorism before a referendum to 
frighten voters into rejecting 
extradition. 
In their statement, the Ex­
traditables said: "The president 
should not fear what the 
congress decides, because the 
congress is the voice of the 
people, and the voice of the 
people is the voice of God." 
Minister of Government Car­los Lemos Simmonds told re­porters after the bombing: "The slaughter that we warned of when the House approved extradition in the plebiscite has started." He is acting president while President Virgilio Barco is on a state visit to Japan. 
The bomb went off at 7:30 
a.m. in an area crowded with people bound for work on foot and in cars. 
So powerful was the explo­sion that it broke windows in a building across the street from the U.S. Embassy seven miles away. The broadcast network Caracol quoted sources with explosives experts at the scene as saying the truck was packed with 1,100 pounds of dynamite. 
Reports on the number of dead and wounded varied, and rescuers were pulling bodies from the rubble of buildings hours after the blast. 
Health Minister Eduardo Diaz said in an interview with Cara­col that at least 35 people were killed, 250 seriously wounded and 750 treated for cuts, abra­sions, shock and shock. Uncon­firmed reports gave higher death tolls. 
. ! 

Imagine what would happen if he didn't have a spare pair ofglasses. 
Shoot 
continued from page 1 
passed his leg and he brought his hands up in a pleading ges­ture. The gunman left him alone. 
"He was clearly gunning for the women," the student said. "All I know is that a crazy 
guy  came  in here and began  
shooting  at  anything  that  
moved,"  said  Dominique  

Berube, 22, one of scores of 
terrified students who ran from the building. "It's our friends who have been killed." 
She said some people threw themselves on the floor while others stood paralyzed. 
The injured, several in critical condition, were taken to four hospitals. 
Frenzied parents rushed to the university and were told to gather at a central location. 
"I saw death close up and I 
The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street Mishawaka 
259-6322 
Hours: 7:30a.m. ·9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
WASHER.S ONLV 85¢ 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash Wednesday: Drop-off · 40¢ per pound Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up, wash. dry, fold. deliver SAME DAY SERVICE 
shook," said student Vanthona Ouy, 22. 
Witnesses told police the gunman entered the classroom at about 5:20 p.m. 
Students said the man emerged from the classroom, fired three or four shots at a group of people and ran up a flight of stairs. 
Student Francois Bordeleau said he had to drag people by the collar to keep them from going in the man's direction. 
He said he heard 20 to 30 shots and the man appeared to be aiming mainly at women. 
"I heard the gunman say: 'I want the women,"' said Borde­leau. 
Several other witnesses con­firmed that the gunman said that. 
Student Eric Chavarie said the gunman "told us to stop ev­erything. And then when we looked at him we thought it was a joke, but he fired a shot in the air and separated us into two groups, the guys in one 
corner  and  the  girls  in  
(another) corner.  
"When  that  was  done  he  

asked the guys to leave, he left the girls in there." 

Not having your glasses when you need them can have terrible consequences. That's why Dr. Tavel offers you a spare pair of Premium ila11e1 for only a S1, when you buy a pair ofFashlon Collection glasses. 
No other dlec:ounta, ~orc:Sen. or •lc ltema apply. 
"""'"" 12/30/1!18 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
Softmate Dally, Tinted, Dally, 
Flext·Wearor F1cxt-Wearor 
f:xtended Weu Extended Wear 
saOO§ 2.~~~ 
Help a friend avoid the perils of poor vision with a gtft certificate In any amount for eyewear or eyecare. The special Spare for a $1 offer. will be honored throughout 1990 If a giftcertificate purchased this holiday season Is used! Ask for details. 
--
GIFT
11';-.A:ve L:''' 
' 
1 11
!lllu.. ' '' ,url!!l CFRTIFICAIE 
Thb gflt <krtf/tca-te:"''-===
In tJw amount of: _ 
F'ronc -----,-­
<!til«: ""'--
IJiillilll"""" DOCTOR """'"IIIIIIIIJI' 


Military issues warning in E. Berlin 
EAST BEHLIN (AP) -The quit on Wednesday, less than Erich llonecker was ousted fol­military issued its first warning 24 hours after the leadership of lowing 18 years as Communist Wednesday in the turmoil that the once-dreaded secret police Party chief. Since then, a popu­has convulsed East Germany, quit. lar uprising and a flood of and a non-Communist took The oflicial ADN news agency refugees to the West forced the over as head of state to end a reported late Wednesday the government to open East Ger­40-year lock the Communists suicide of an official caught many's borders and the Berlin held on the presidency. two days earlier trying to lnave Wall to let citizens travel freely. 
The government reported a government building with two East Germans also have been signs that angry citizens were suitcases stuffed with East promised open elections, but storming army installations, German and West German the country's overall direction and military leaders pledged to money. remains unclear. repel any attempts to seize ADN did not give his name, Pro-democracy opposition wnapons and munitions. but said he was connected to groups so far lack the coordi­
Manfred Gnrlach, lnadnr of the ease of fugitive Alexander nation to fill the power vacuum the Liberal Dnmocratic Party, Schalck-Golodkowski, the left by the Communists' hasty replaced Egon Krenz as interim former top East German for­retreat. president. the first time a non­eign trade official accused of For days, reports surfaced of 
Communist had become presi­running a weapons-selling ring. furious citizens barging into 
dent since East Germany's Manfred St)idel, the No. 2 of­secret police offices. including founding in 1949. Gerlach's ficial in that scandal-plagued storming one building in the party recently broke off its long office, was arrested on suspi­southern city of Gera on alliance with the Communists cion of having smuggled $110 Wednesday. after weeks of spearheading million out of the country. wforms. The Christian Democrats, a A citizens committee pressing 
The Communists advanced small party that recently broke for reforms in Leipzig occupied their emergency session one with the Communists, said regional state security head­week to Friday to overhaul the growing financial scandals quarters there on Monday, and party's structure. were making East Germany an ADN report suggested the 
Shedding such "Stalinist" op­look like a "banana republic." activists still controlled the erations as the Central Commit­The government announced a building. tee and ruling Politburo is one partial amnesty Wednesday, possibility. Breaking up the following hunger strikes The assaults were meant to party is another. spreading to penal institutions stop destruction of documents 
In seven weeks, the country nationwide. It applies to those needed in prosecuting former has faced a virtual revolution sentenced to three years or less Communist officials. that first ousted a hard-line and excludes prisoners con­leadership and then threw out victed of "rowdiness," a term An investigative commission senior Communist Party chiefs. once applied to pro-democracy recommended criminal charges A 25-member committee of demonstrators but also some­against former secret police Communists now runs the na­times used for more serious of­boss Erich Mielke, 81, for police tion. fenders. attacks against demonstrators 
The National Defense Council, The reform movement ex­in October that touched off tne in charge of the armed forces, ploded here after hard-liner revolutionary changes. 
'-r 


Ski the Mississippi Tour #1 -Jan. 3-5 Tour #2-Feb. 9-11 Call today! 1-264-3984 Deadline: Dec. 14 

Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAy 7:30 9:30
I 


100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 
Where dil the Three Wise Men stop before headinginto Bethlehem? 
Obviously, at Irish Gardens to pick upf1oV\eiS for the Cbristmas ce~bration! 
flowers • • greeting 'We now have Christmas cards!" 
Basement of LaFortune Mon.-Sat. 12:30-5:30pm 

The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp 
Cramming 
Saint Mary's freshman Dana Van Paemel (left) and Kerry Peterson 
sneak one last peek at their math notes before plunging into the 
exam. What they don't know now they'll never know. 

Lebanese president tells general to leave 
BEIHUT, Lebanon (AP) ­President Elias llrawi was quoted Wednesday as saying he would give Gen. Michel Aoun, the rebellious army commander he fired. two weeks to leave the pn~sidential palaee peacefully. 
Leaders of the Nationalist Front, a loose alliance of Syr­ian-backed Moslmn and leftist factions, called for a general strike Thursday to protest "Aoun's attempts to partition Lebanon." 
llrawi, a MaronitP Catholic like the general. said Moslem army units under Gen. Emile Lahoud, the new commander, were preparing a plan to invade the Christian enelave where Aoun is entn~ndwd and dis­lodge him if neenssary. 


Soldiers loyal to Aoun fought Syrian-backed Moslem militias Wednesday for a second day in Beirut and hills above thn eity. Police reported one pPrson killed and thren wounded. 
Tlw independent newspapPr An-Nahar quoted llrawi as saying in an interview: "I'm giving goodwill mediators a week or two to produce fruitful results." 
But he stressed that lw will not "compromise n~gard ing unity of the legal authorities." 
"The presidential palace in Baabda has become a symbol that should not be given away to anyone," llrawi said. 
ADVENT 
LESSONS AND CAROLS 

with the 
The Notre Dame Liturgical Choirs and Brass Works by Palestrina, Guerrero, Handel, Distler, and Brillero 



Business
Thursday, December 7, 1989 page 7 
Students learn about global market in Europe 
By Mike Kolar Busmess Wnter 
In today's business world, there is much talk of the orientation toward a global markr!tplace, as well as the impact of the birth of the Europr!an Economic Community in 1992. 
In this changing environment, a global awareness, and an increased r!mphasis on international business education is important to students planning to enter the corporate world upon graduation. 
At Notre Damn, one way of obtaining a morf! global business perspective is the European Business Smninar. 
Approximately three wneks in length, this summer program allows students to travel to some of Europe's greatest cities and sights, and to visit many well known rompaniPs engaged in business in Europe. Since it was first offnred at Notre Dame in the summer of 1988. the program has grown in popularity under the direction of Terry Clark, Assistant Professor of Marketing. 
While the logistics of travel. hotel accommodations, and seminar activities are handled by International Business Seminars, Notre Dame arranges its own preparation and course work before the seminar. The course work involves weekly classes, as well as a major test and paper. Through the seminar program, students are eligible
f t h d · t · 
or ree ere 1 s In International Business if they desire, or they may participate merely for their own personal benefits. 
The 1989 seminar included visits to London, Paris, Lyon. Nice, Monte Carlo, Geneva, Cologne, Stuttgart, and Amsterdam, with all of the transportation on the continent being by motor coach. During their travel, the participants had ample free time to shop, sight see, and acquaint themselves with the local culture and people. 
The major benefits of the trip, however, lie in the education received in visiting with the men and women who are engaged in international business, and hearing their views on the issues facing their respective entities. 
Last year's participants visited such well known corporations as Price Waterhouse, Steinway & Sons, Cadbury, and Mercedes-Benz, in addition to the British Banker's Association and the ADN Bank. At each of these, the group was very well received, and heard top executives address the issues important to their companies, the European market as a whole, and the coming changes in 1992. 
In addition to the education received, many participants find that prospective employers are impressed by their seminar experience. Senior Megan 


.. 
Terry Clark/The Observer European seminar participants hold an important business meeting on the roof tops of Monte Carlo. Monte Carlo was one of their many stops on a three week trip through Europe's centers. The students visited multinational corporations such as Mercedes-Benz and Price Waterhouse. 
Hanley, a marketing and Clark feels the prepared, and participated 
psychology major feels the program holds numerous more actively in seminar seminar, coupled with her work benefits for its participants. discussions. "My colleagues experience in London gives her, "First of all, it is a lot of fun. In from Baylor University were so "a good feeling for what is addition, there are the cultural impressed, they plan to going on in the European benefits, the business introduce our program of market." Mary Bernard, a education, and the unique preparation to their student junior accounting major, opportunity to get a look inside next year, " Clark said. agreed with Hanley that the some of Europe's major Plans are already seminar."really makes you corporations." under way for the 1990 stand out (from other business While Notre Dame was seminar, and the majority of majors). It's something that not the only school represented the slots available to ND catches their (prospective on the seminar trip, they were, students are filled, according to employers) attention." according to Clark, the best Clark. 

If you have a car and are interested become an Associated Press courier for 
Join e team 
in making some extra money, The Observer. 
that brings ND/SMC 
For more information, call Regis Coccia at 239-5303 
The Observer 

"Holiday Headquarters" 
for 
Packing
and 
Shipping 
UPS, DHL, and Others 
Postal, Business and Communication Services 
MAll. BOXES E I C.~ 

On State Route 23, Next to the Subway Phone (219) 277-MAIL FAX (219) 277-7679 


St. Nick's Bazaar 
St. Mary's College, Le Mans Hall Open daily this week, 10-5 

• wood crafts •decorated baskets •wreaths 
Come to booth 117 and receive 10% discount with this ad. 
A WEEKEND 
RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
GUIDED BY 
STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your v•lues, your rel•tlonshlp with Christ, your experience of Chrlstl•n community and service. 
WHEN: Seplember 15-17, 1989 November 17-19, 1989 • January 19-21, 1990 March 2-4, 1990 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office (Hesburgh Library) 
239-7800 
USIGNUP ~EADLINE: !JecembeJt. 4 -11 
COST: $20.00 

Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, December 7, 1989 
~The -Obset:Ver-=-= 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regos Coccoa Roch Iannello 
Exec. News Editor Manhew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Bias• Systems Mgr Bernard Brenntnkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Bailey OTS Director .Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnshne Goll Controller Anne Londner 
The Observer os the ondependent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saont Mary"s College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ocoes of the admonostratoon of eother onstotutoon The news os reported as accurately and ob­Jectively as posstble Unsogned edotonals represent the oponoon of the maJority of the followong. Editor-on-Choef. Managong Edotor. Executove News Edotor. Voewpoint Editor, Sports Editor. Accent Edotor. Photo Edotor Saont Mary's Edotor Commentaries. letters. and the lnsode Column present the voews at theor authors Column space os available to all members of the communoty and the free expressoon of varyong oponoons on campus. through letters, os encouraged 

LETTERS 
Women presiders do not diminish 'Catholic character' 
Dear Editor: 
The understandable alien­ation of millions of faithful Catholic women deserves a thoughtful response. The Pope's own Biblical Commission could find no reason for ex-eluding women from the priest­hood; neither could the Catholic Theological Society of America. 
• 
Women in the Church concluded that the exclusion of women from ordination is the most blatant example of "anti-femi­nine bias" in Church law. 
While many parishes throughout the world must cope with priestless Sundays, the Notre Dame community eel­ebrates thousands of masses each year. We very modestly request that one occasion 


set aside for a service in which women can be full presiders. · 
Will forgoing -one Mass among the thousands dilute Notre Dame's Catholic identity. as Fred Freddoso facetiously implies in his letter to the editor (The Observer, Nov. 21)? Can Fred Freddoso seriously sug­gest that opening the school year with a non-Eucharistic ~rvice of the Word will start us down the slippery slope to-women's ordination as wards Brown and Yale's god-"schismatic." less secularism? My proposal that we substi­
tute a liturgy of the Word for 

Ridicule and sarcasm must t~e Eucharist at the opening give way to serious discussion ntual ~f th? s_c~ool year ~as of the women's ordination is-met w1th mv1dwus labeling sue. if the Church is to respond ("absurd," "ridiculous") instead to the charge of shameful sex-of reasons and arguments. ism. It is sadly ironic that the Clark Power featured editorial in the new Associate Professor magazine Dialogue, refers to Program of Liberal Studies the campus discussion of Dec. 1, 1989 
Considering the plight of St. Michael's Laundry workers 
Dear Editor: 
I am disturbed as to what was not said or was inadver­tently omitted by The Observer as to the tragic loss of St. Michael's Laundry a few weeks ago. 
The Canon Law Society's Committee on the Status of 
St. Miehael's Laundry was a precious landmark to many of us here on the campus, past and present. It was unique in so 
DOONESBURY 
many ways, as were the won­derful dedicated men, women and Holy Cross Sisters who la­bored there throughout the decades. These dedicated people have made a unique contri­bution to this University, the students, faculty and Holy Cross priests, brothers and sis­ters. 
Our debt to these employees past and present is infinite. 

Vandalism and leisurely strolls: Defacing Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: 
I was disturbed to read in The Observer (Dec. 1) that both the LaFortune Student Center and the Christmas tree at the corner of Notre Dame Avenue and Angela Boulevard were re­cently vandalized. Although there is apparently no com­pelling reason to believe that the LaFortune vandalism was done by Notre Dame students, the discovery of footprints leading from the Christmas tree back to campus suggests that some of our own are vandals. 
But whether the vandalism comes from "Benders" or "Domers," we should be outraged. What kind of per­sonal gratification vandals 
derived from deliberate defac­
ing of things that others find 
beautiful and enjoyable is sim­
ply my understanding. It illus­
trates yet again that some peo­
ple are not content simply to be 
immature. They insist on dis­
playing that immaturity for all 
the world to see. 
Another thing that disturbs me is the apparently acceptable defacing of our campus by countless people walking across lawns. I have had the opportunity to visit many col­lege campuses nationwide, and very few are as beautiful as ours. Yet so many people on the Notre Dame campus seem to­tally unconcerned about the de­structive consequences of their casual, repeated. leisurely straight-line strolls from their 
point of origin to their destina­tion. 
I do not believe this is imma­turity, but it is wanton can~­lessness. Such carelessness is unbecoming of an academic community that takes justifi­able pride not only in learning but in values, not so much in personal conv1~nience as in the rights and needs of others. Since we are about to begin a new year, perhaps we ean all resolve to use paved rather 
than grassy surfaces as our walkways, and to encourage our friends to do the same. 
Father Ronald Wasowski Associate Professor Department of Earth Sciences Dec. 4. 1989 

They went about their task of sorting soiled linen and sundry tasks with little or no thanks or recognition. No matter how much money is spent on re­building another laundry. you can never replace the unique beauty of what was lost. In my 40 years near and around this campus. I consider myself for­tunate in knowing so many of these totally dedieated people, and my life has been enriched 
fourfold by our mutual friend­
ship. 
Also, it is with much vexation 
of spirit that I take issue with 
Mr. Joe Zadronzny in his article 
"Fire Leaves Mark on Men's 
Fashion at ND," whieh ap­
peared in The Observer, Nov. 
28. I found his article rather silly, immature and unfeeling in light of losing our laundry and 
. the disruption of the lives of the employees who labored there. It could b1~ doubly trying for many because Christmas is so near. 
Mr. Zadrozny has inadver­tantly omitted the sadness and saf effeet on the lives of the laundry employees. May St. Miehanl come to our assistance in our loss. 
Brother Edward Courtney Columba Hall 
Nov. 29, 1989 


.GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'To have beauty is to have only that, but to have goodness is to be beautiful too.' 
Sappho 

L__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ --­


Accent
ursday, December 7, 1989 
9 

Misfits in Disguise 
Local students make comedy debut with 'SNL'-type skits at Alumni Senior Bar 
CAROL DOMINGUEZ hers, was tired of "conforming through." Perry, however, hop­accent writer to the main issues on campus." ing one day to perform in Sec­The Misfits, through occasional ond City and Saturday Night 
Thc group is Misfits in Dis­risky jokes, aims to poke fun at Live, participates in campus guise, but unlike their name. racial and sexual stereotypes -comedy with this goal in mind. they arc not a bunch of malad­they hope to break down barri­Soon Misfits in Disguise justcd students in camouflage. ers with their comedy. If the would like to perform for a Thcy are an exciting, new five­audience laughs, then the com­broader audience at Washing­member comedy company that pany's subtle statements of so­ton Hall with SUB's endorse­-­rcprescnts a cross-section of cial criticism are getting ment. Until then, the lucky thc Notre Dame community. through. Above all, they focus twenty-one and over crowd can 
Brad Perry, founder and on fun and seriously "hope that catch the company starting this leader of the Misfits, attends nobody is offended." Saturday at Alumni Senior Bar. Holy Cross Junior College, Although they are not affili­Rohling speaks for Misfits Alyssa Moehle and Annie ated with Notre Dame and re­when he says, "Give us a chance Parker are Saint Mary's stu­ceive no aid from the Univer­-try something new. We'll sur­dents, and Brian Maggio and sity, Misfits still seeks to recruit prise you." 
students or other interested, 

Right: Five members of Misfits in
"We're fresh and talented people to join the 
Disguise in the midst of one of 
company. Eventually, Perry 

entertaining -their skits. They can be seen this
would like to branch into four 

Saturday at 9:30 p.m. at Senior
something new for groups of five members each. 
Alumni Club. 
With a larger staff, Misfits

people to do on a Below: The six members of Misfits 
could expand as fully as they 

in Disguise clockwise from top:
weekend night. We now plan. The group's ultimate 
Brad Perry, Alyssa Moehle, Brian
think we're funny, we goal is to perform on television 
Maggio, Karl Rohling, John 
and to travel to other colleges, 

hope we're funny, we Zeman, and Annie Parker.
keeping Alumni Senior Club asknow we're funny!" their base. 

Photos by Eric Bailey. 
Though their comedy is not Karl Hohling are seniors at restricted to student humor, Notre Dame. John Zeman, a Misfits believe that crowd in­1988 ND graduate and impro­volvement is the key to success. visational pianist, enhances the Moehle says that if the · impromptu character by pro­"atmosphere is laid back. then viding a "musical mood" for the people will enjoy the show each skit. Since late fall, these more." But the group will rely studcnts have been meeting more on their talent and hard twice a week to prepare for work to draw crowds, rather their first pcrformance that than becoming dependent solely will bc at 9:30 p.m. on Satur­on the bar scene. Bohling con­day, Dccember 9, at thP Alumni fidently states, "We're fresh Senior Club. and entertaining-something 
Perry, dcscribcd by the com­new for people to do on a pany as a "versatile kind of weekend night. We think we're guy," formed the Misfits for funny, we hope we're funny, we definite reasons. lie and three know we're funny!" other membcrs previously par­Each Misfit is a dynamic, en­ticipated in Irish Accent, a thusiastic individual with a hid­campus organized improve den desire for the stage. With troupe, but they broke away friends' encouragement, Parker when they felt restricted by decided to utilize her comic tal­University policies. They bclieve ents, make new friends, and that a crowd in a bar atmo­conquer an unexplored interest. sphcrn will be more rcceptive to Rohling, though not planning their Second City/ Saturday on an improvisational career, Night Live type of humor. admits that "if doors are openBohling, likc the other mcm-because of this, I'll put my foot 
The Green Album: Gumb·y should stick to cartoons 
MATTHEW SPATZ Buena Vista records felt it had meaningless lyrics and less One slightly imaginative song Gumby" which tells the gripping accent writer enough of a market for an than imiovative melodies. by Flo & Eddie is the tale of our green sheriff: "He alternative Gumby concept At this point, let me make it Beatlesque "We· All Are was a hell of a gun but the hot 
I suppose somebody album. Basically, it is a novelty clear that I like Gumby. That Gumby", complete with cello midday sun was a burnin dirty somewhere has been waiting which will be outdated before it said, let me continue by saying backup and the now­and green/ And it's harder to for it and sooner or later it had is reviewed. Nonetheless, there that, if it weren't for scheming, immortalized Tears for Fears shoot when your guns hot to to come. It did. The Green are a few things which should trend-creating, money-grubbing trumpet riff. It begins with boot and your hand's custom Album, a collection of mostly be pointed out. producers like Shep Stern, the ''I'm not green and you're not green plasticine.'' After LaGoon new melodies celebrating the Zappa siblings would be green, but he is green and insults Gumby's saying "you've little plastic green hero of our The album starts with a passing out flowers on behalf plasticine to boot" and got feet of clay", he shoots childhood: Gumby. Ranging in slightly more-than-catchy but of the Church semi­continues "all that we are Gumby through the hat. When musical styles from pop/rock to frankly less-than-enduring self­consciousness in the lobby of really saying is 'give Gumby a Gumby comes to, he says "I'm zydeco, and reggae to polka to proclaimed "speed metal" tune L.A.X. (where they belong). chance.' " In the conclusion, really O.K., LaGoon missed me rhythm & blues, the album by Dweezil and Moon Unit Someone should isolate that there is an incessant chant of today, his shot went this-a-way features such greats as the Zappa called "In Love With You gene pool now. "Gumby! Gumby! Everybody's but, my head slopes that-a­Zappa siblings, Frank Sinatra Gumby". After stating that Gumby!" and even an allusion to way." Cute. Jr.(yes, the son of Old Blue "You're bendable, dependable, There are two 60's remakes, the "Pokie is dead" rumor with Eyes), Flo & Eddie, Sly & most of all befriendable/ three if you count the original an atmospheric "Cranberry The most classy piece is ­Robbie (sorry, no Bert & Gangly and green, you're tall theme song by Sinatra. Eddie Pokie" or "I buried Pokie" (it's the remake of the show's Ernie), Brave Combo, and a and you're lean/ Kissable, miss­Wade, who producer Stern too difficult to figure out). theme "The Gumby Heart couple of other people you've able, you're so permissable/ claims has legions of fans, Song". Frank Sinatra's never heard. Everybody wants you if you performs the old favorite (??) Other less-than-memorable son belts out a fine melody 
It is supposedly a response to know what I mean," Moon Unit "Concrete and Clay". Donna songs include "Zydeco Gumby accompanied by a full 36­the growing Gumby trend pleads to her newfound lover to McElroy, another unknown Ya Ya", "Don't be blue if you piece jazz orchestra in 
-
sweeping the college campus "Show me the stuff that your with a tremendous voice does should be green/ Do what the which Plas Johnson takes circuit from which, I suppose, made of, 'cause I think I'm in her version of (appropriately Cajun's do," and "Pokey's the sax solo. On the whole, Notre Dame has been love." The bad news is, it enough) "Bend Me, Shape Me". Polka" by Brave Combo, who however, The Green Album graciously spared. But in doesn't get much better than These songs aren't too horrible describe themselves as "the could quite possibly be the California, where these things this. The album is packed to and deserve at least one or two first nuclear polka band". worst musical tragedy I've seem to make a difference, the brim with silly and listens. There is also "The Ballad of encountered. 
r----------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, December 7, 1989
The Observer
page 10 

Padres, Tribe finish deal; Mets, Reds trade closers 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) ­Joe Carter finally was traded and baseball's winter meetings finished with a flourish Wednesday as free agent Kent 
Hrbek  stayed  with  the  
Minnesota  Twins  while  Jeff  
Reardon left for Boston.  

Bill Gullickson returned from Japan to sign with Houston in the morning and the slower­than-usual meetings then hit full speed in late afternoon. 
In a deal of high-profile relief pitchers Wednesday night, the New York Mets dealt Randy Myers to the Cincinnati Reds for John Franco. 
With trade rumors circulating about Mike Greenwell, Von Hayes. Lee Smith and others big names, most teams planned to stay in town past the official ending. 
Cleveland and San Diego, which conditionally agreed to trade Carter on Monday night, finished their business soon be­fore the deadline to complete the deal. 
The Indians sent Carter, one of baseball's top hitters, to the Padres for catcher Sandy Alomar Jr., the minor league player of the year, plus Chris James and prospect Carlos Baerga. 
''I'm definitely relieved," Carter said from his home in Kansas. "I know San Diego is a good ballclub and it's a chance to compete on a contender." 
Carter, 29, hit 35 home runs -most for the Indians since Rocky Colavito's 42 in 1959 ­drove in 105 runs and batted .243. He averaged 31 homers and 108 RBls in the last four seasons with Cleveland. 
Carter was not signed for next year and indicated he would leave the Indians when 
he became eligible for free 
agency after the 1990 season. 
The Padres got permission to 
negotiate with Carter and were 
given until mid-afternoon to 
work out a deal. 
Carter got a three-year con­
tract worth $9.2 million, mak­
ing him the highest-paid posi­
tion player in baseball history. 
"The Padres answered all of 
our concerns positively and it 
was a situation that Joe really 
liked," Carter's agent, Jim 
Turner said. ''I'm glad everyone 
was able to get it done." 
So were the Padres. 
"Joe's numbers speak for 
themselves over the last few 
seasons," Padres manager and 
vice president Jack McKeon 
said. ''I'm sure we 'II find a 
place for him." 
Carter will play center field and join an offense that in-eludes Tony Gwynn and Jack 
Clark. 
Alomar, 23, was never able to 
break into the Padres' lineup 
because they already had All­
Star catcher Benito Santiago. 
Alomar hit .306 with 101 RBis 
at Class AAA Las Vegas last 
season and Indians general 
manager Hank Peters said, 
"We've already received three 
or four offers for him." 
Baerga, 21, is a switch-hit­ting third baseman who batted .275 with 74 RBis at Las Vegas. James, 27, hit .243 with 13 home runs and 65 HBis for Philadelphia and San Diego. 
The Twins, meanwhile, got a split with their high-priced free agents as Hrbek and Reardon each made hometown moves. 
llrbek got a five-year, $14 million contract to re-sign with Minnesota. Detroit and Seattle each offered about $15 million, but Hrbek, born and raised in 

the Twin Cities, turned them 
down. 

''I'm happy to be staying in 
Minnesota," Hrbek said. "Being 
at home was the determining 
factor." 

The Twins appreciated their 
first baseman's loyalty. 

''I'd like to thank Kent Hrbek 
for making a concession in dol­
lars," general manager Andy 
MacPhail said. "We're a small­
city market and only have a fi­
nite amount of resources avail­
able." 

Hrbek, 29, broke into the majors with Minnesota in 1981 and is a lifetime .290 hitter with 201 home runs and 724 RBis. Last season, lw hit .272 with 25 homers and 84 RB!s. 
Reardon, who led the majors with 264 saves in the 1980s, took a three-year, $6.8 million 
offl~r by Boston. 

The Observer accepts ctassifieds every business day from 10 a.m to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All class1fieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces

Classifieds 

Get your shopping done now ... 
f AM WILLING TO PAY BIG before its too late! SENIOR FORMAL THEME BUCKS FOR AN ORANGE BOWL 

LwANTED 

Take a trip to Chicago on the CONTEST ..... 
8 Orange Bowl 
NOTICES 

GA. PLEASE CALL KELLY AT WINDY CITY SHUTILE. Submit a theme 1dea and win #1342OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 mo. 
tickets for sale 
Tickets $1 0--available at the dinner for 2 at TIPPECANOE! 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Summer,yr.round,AII Countries, All 
LaFortune Information Desk. Submit entries to Student MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
-all seats together.
fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx Activities (NDISMC) before SENIORS SENIORS 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar CA 

Mon. Dec.11 Pick up Weekly Bulletin at WORDPROCESSING 
Excellent seats! 
92625. 

Attention Juniors: Career & Placement Services 
Row 28 between 15 
272-8827 
Roll TIDE, Roll!!! Hand in two profiles for the GOING TO THE ORANGE BOWL? 
Anyone interested in helping with invitational interviews during the TYPING AVAILABLE ARE YOU DRIVING? 
and 20 yard line. 
the Cocktail Dance for first two weeks of the Spring 
Roll TIDE. Roll!!!

Call Steve between 
287-4082 I need a ride BACK to anywhere on 
J.P.W. please contact semester. DEADLINE: Friday, the east coast after the game. I'm 
Michelle at 2855 Dec. 15
9:30 and 4:30 
Roll TIDE, Roll!!! TEXTBOOKS fun. I'll make great conversation & 
or
Wed, Thurs. or Fri.
BOUGHT AND SOLD I'll even pay & drive. Please call Jen B at 4041 
Roll TIDE, Rolli!! PANDORA'S BOOKS Karenx1511. 
before December 12! CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND 
(305) 591-9335 
SANTA IS COMING HOWARD RIDERS NEEDED­
SPUNK LORD: ICEBERG DEBATES SANTA IS COMING 233-2342 I'M DRIVING HOME TO WASH. 
Put me in Hardy-Weinberg, you Deadline to turn in GET YOUR PICTURE TAKEN LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN DC WED. DEC 20TH. WILL TAKE 
virile genetic god. applications to Hall WITH SANTA ON DEC. 14 STOCK! RIDERS. CALL 151 1. 
THE DIABOLICAL ONE Presidents is Dec. 1 0 FROM NOON-5PM IN Get involved now! 
LAFORTUNE TYPING 
MILK TOAST BABY., SANTA IS COMING 
ICEBERG DEBATES PICKUP & DELIVERY 
ROOMMATE WANTED· Female 

word up. may faulkner invite you to 277-7406 
(24) seeks non-smoker to share smoke a stogie with him and DEAR CRAZY PAT, THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune MALACHIA his possum. 6¢ Copies, Binding, FAX

apartment near NO. Will move in 
with you or find place together. 

''Christmas Concert" 
Happy Burble Day WE LOVE YOU, AND WILL OPEN EARL Y,LATE,&WEEKENDS Notre Dame's singing and dancing 
Colleen 3503. 

-penis MISS YOU FOREVER!!! ensemble, Shenanigans, will be 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY performing their annual Christmas 
Mr. Dickinson, LOVE, The Gorch Games Room staff concert Friday, Dec.8, at 7:00p.m. 
READING BOOKS! $32,000/YEAR 

Good luck with ambiguous genitilia EVERYONE would like to congratulate the in Washington Hall. Tickets are 
INCOME POTENTIAL DETAILS. 

on this, the day of your zygotic following winners of the free and can be picked up at the 
(1) 602·838-8885 EXT. BK 6262. 

emergence. -------------------------------------pool tournament: door. 
Harvy Celebrate Christmas With The Grinch, Heat Miser 1st Place · Kevin Bailey 
[ FORRENT 

roberto-and Dillon! ' 2nd Place-G.P. Schmidtke 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
this is the day, the height of your 3rd Place-R.G. Straman 
rk****** 
virility. harv says they come in two ·Friday and Saturday-4th Place -Bill Correlle NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable, SPRING BREAK flavors; you choose one. meet me 7:00 Rudolph the Red-Nosed GOOD JOB! 
LOST: BLACK TOILETRY BAG and furnished apartments: Guaranteed Lowest Prices! Get at the grotto, you know where. ReindeerWITH MY CONTACTS. CALL • 755 South Bend Ave. efficiency· 
DOUG#2341. 
Early Bird Savings.Third year 
mo 7:50 A Year Without A Santa $225, 1 bedroom-$265. 
running to Cancun, Rio, Bermuda 
Claus Buy Observer Classifieds! 

• 607 1/2 E. Corby, 1 bedroom­Lost: Cross Fell Tip Pen bearing 
8:40 Frosty the Snowman People will get the message.

and the Bahamas Call Doug at: the AT&T logo. II has sentimental Deposit. references . 
$295. 

Laura in 114 Farley-9:05 Charlie Brown Christmas Value. It found please call Joe @ 
283-1818 your christmas elf sends ho has 9:30 life & Adventures of616-483-9572. 
x3804. and all that jazz. Santa Claus SENIORS
REWARD!! REWARD!! REWARDIII MALE/FEMALE HOUSEMATE do you know who i am? 10:20 How the Grinch Stole SENIORS
PERSONALS
NEEDED FOR NEXT SEMESTER. Christmas 
SENIORS..

"'SECRET SANTAS'" 
Buy your roommate, friend or 
OWN BEDROOM, CLOSE TO 10:45 'Twas the Night Before 
CAMPUS, HOUSE IN GREAT Christmas
ORANGE BOWL FLIGHTS 
sweetie a holiday bag of goodies The Senior Class is sponsoring aCONDITION. 120/MO. +UTIL CALL 1-800-7DOMERS 
LOST : Navy I cream down coat at for $1. Sold-Dining halls Dec 5,6,7. trip to Chicago on Sun. Dec. 10 to 
PLEASE CALL 289-4621. -Friday· 
see "The Nutcracker.· Tickets cost 
ND Ave. Apts. It found, please call Delivered Dec. 8th. Support BP 11 :30 ScroogedChicago · $295 and El Campito and help put a $32.50 and may be purchased in 
Whitney@ x-2744. Thanks. 
CLEAN 3-BDRM HOUSE, 2 BLKS. 

Cincinnati · $245 smile on a child's face this 
FROM NO. $4751MO. 232-3972. -Saturday-the Class Office from 3·5 p.m. any
Cleveland-$311 Christmas!!! 
11 :30 It's a Wonderful Life day this week. 

Dallas · $320 FOUND 4 BR, N.D. AVE., furnished house 
Denver -$351 Single room key on a gold for rent beginning AUG. They're FREE and Christmas 
Washington, D.C. Club Bus Detroit -$280 
square key chain with a D on it. wouldn't be the same without
'90. GRAD STUDENTS OR SRS. 

Louisville · $245 Bus sign-ups, Thursday Dec. 7
Found Friday nile in D-2. RESERVE NOW! 259-7801 days them! In Dillon's Party Room. SENIORS
Philadelphia · $270 Flanner Pit -8:00pmCall x3890 to claim. or 255-5852 evenings/wknds. 
New Orleans · $200 Price · $95/50 (RI/1 way) 
"To the GLEE CLus·· 'THE NUTCRACKER" House available 1990·91 school A great big thank you to the 
LaGuardia · $31 0 
Boston -$328 Washington, D. C. Club 
LOST: I LOST SOMETHING AT year. Furnished. well maintained, Pittsburgh -$320 members of the Glee Club who DEC. 10 IN CHICAGO THE ST. MARY'S JUNIOR secure home. 5 bedrooms. WID, came to Portage Manor on
Los Angeles -$440 For Sale 36 inch wreaths. Only
FORMAL AND IT'S NOT WHAT close to campus. Competitive rent. Monday night. Thank you so much JUST DO IT !! ! YOU'RE PROBABLY THINKING­
$10
Call 264-601 o for spreading some Christmas joy
CALL 1-800-7DOMERS Call Katie 284-4390 
IT WAS MY BLACK OVERCOAT. to the residents. They loved it. Jeanne shimmies naked.
MOST FLIGHTS 12/29 AND 1/3.If you accidentally took home with Nice furnished homes for next SEATS ARE LIMITED. Merry Christmas to all of you. you please call me. Has large label school year. Close to ND. 277· Going toward Dayton, Springfield, Thanks to you Ralph for being the 
"1 00% Cashmiere" inside. $50+ 3097. Cincinnati or Columbus Friday organizer. SENIORS SENIORS reward. Please call T. J. CLARK Dec. 8? We REALLY need a ride!!! -The women of Siegfried. Pick up Weekly Bulletin at 
Leave Dec. 8, return Dec. 10. CallFOR SALE Gia at5271 or Kathy at 5264 at MIDDLE EASTERN DINNER Hand in two profiles for the 
283·1738 Career & Placement Services 
FOUND: VIVITAR CAMERA ADOPTION, A LOVING SMC Friday, Dec 8 at Club 23 invitational interviews during the 
S.E. corner of Badin on sidewalk, ALTERNATIVE. 81 L ALUM 6pm -all you can eat · $5 first two weeks of the Spring 
'86 HONDA ACCORD, 4 DOOR. 

Sat. night. Call x3466 to describe WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT. ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily semester. DEADLINE: Friday,
A/C, AMIFM STEREO TAPE. 

and claim. LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO married, warm, seek white Dec. 15
STICK, 1 OWNER. TOP 

ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN newborn to love and cherish. 
CONDITION. $6300. 277-2560. 

-
BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF Legal, confidential. Please call 
Attention all women: Pat Muck is 
YOU OR SOMEONE YOU IS Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864· PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES!! on the market again! He is a hot'78 TOYOTA COROLLA $1800.
HELP Ill Lost one brown leather CONSIDERING ADOPTION, CALL 5512 
PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES!!J commodity. His assets include: bomber jacket Saturday night at MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT 602-1. He's cute 
287-2062. 

! AT theWormll 482-0905. PHILADELPHIA CLUB 
CLUB23 2. A car In the pockets were my I.D.'s, CHRISTMAS BUS 
CLUB23 3. Almost average height glasses, and a Kodak camera! TICKETS ADOPTION -Well-educated Sign-ups: Monday Dec. 11 
4. Most importantly he's a Please call if you have any couple eager to adopt a baby. 1st floor Lafortune VERMIN!
TONITE: THURSDAY 10 PM 

-
information concerning this coat!! 
Cheerful home full of books. 7:30pm cost:$85 
Buy while the price is low. For more Call: 
Flexible on sharing information ??? call Shanon 4091 or information call #4051 
Daytona Beach 

Mark 288-3133 adoption agency can provide Get your Christmas Shopping Tina @284-5199 with birthmother about child. Our 
Spring'90 

counseling and references. Please GOING TO THE ORANGE BOWL? done early ... ride the Windy Lost: Rhinestone necklace with 
Just do it! 
Monica Yant ·

call collect 309-827-3135 I HAVE A 1 WAY PLANE TICK. 4 City Shuttle to Chicago. Tickets black stone in the center. It you 
$239 complete 

eveslwknds tor profile/photo. SALE. JAN 9 FROM MIAMI TO available for $10.00 Suprise. suprise !
xll95 Shane 

James and Hollis. Just a note to say "Hi!" 
have any information please 
WASHINGTON/SALT. VERY at the contact Angela Smith or Laine 
xl874 Jeff or Ken 

· Kris Kringle Hickey at x3705, 345 Badin. 
284-4407 Jennifer 

CHEAP! CALL 151 1. LaFortune Information Desk. 
HIAG! 



Thursday, December 7, 1989 
There's a PS/2® that's right for you. 
Model30 286 8530-E21  
Memory Processor 3.5-lnch diskette drive  1Mb 80286 (10 MHz) 1.44Mb  2Mb 80386SXTM ( 16Mhz) 1.44Mb  Options with any order,  
Fixed disk drive Micro ChanneiT11 architecture  20Mb  30Mb Yes  Lotus 1·2-3 $100  
Display Software  Monochrome 0083.3 WordPerfect  Monochrome DOS3.3 WordPerfect  Color Monitors $230  
Price  $1,995  $2,950  

Now with Immediate Delivery! 
Three of the most popular IBM Proprinters™ are available now at special low prices, and slightly longer delivery. 
-
Proprinter III w/Cable (420l/003) $406 Proprinter X24E w/Cable ( 4207 /002) $549 Proprinter XL24E w/Cable (4208/002) $736 Start out the new year right. Check out all 
these special savings now-before it's too late! 

How're you going to do it? PS/2 it! 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computing Center and Math Building 239-7477 
==-= .::® 
~
_-_.._,_--­


•This offer is limited to qualified students, faculty and staff who order an IBM PS/2 Model 8530-E21 or 8555-031 through December 31, 1989. Prices quoted do not include sales tax. Prices above do include a handling charge. Check with your institution regarding this charge. •IBM and PS/2 are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation TMProprinter and Micro Channel are trademarks of International Business Machtnes Corporation. r"80386SX and 80386 are trademarks of Intel Corporation. Prices are subject to change and IBM may withdraw the promotion at any time without written notice. Immediate delivery for cash and cashiers check payment only. Allow approximately 7 days for personal check orders. 

t 
Syracuse nips Duke in Challenge contest 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. 
Everick Sullivan seored nine 
points as No. 11 Louisville 
opened with a 14-0 run and 
was never headed in beating 
Vanderbilt 101-75 
Wednesday night. 
It was the second straight 
time Louisville (5-1) hit the 
century mark, having beaten 
Cleveland State 104-77 on 
Monday. 
Sullivan, who scored 13 of 
his 20 points in the first half. 
hit two jump shots, a 3-point 
shot and a slam dunk during 
the opening spurt, which was 
capped by a Tony Kimbro 
free throw at the 14:1 7 
mark. 
Louisville's full-court 
pressure defense forced 
Vanderbilt (2-2) to miss its 
first eight shots and commit 
three turnovers before 
Derriek Wilcox broke the 
drought with a jumper from 
the top of the key with 13:55 
left in the half. 
Louisville then upped its 
advantage to 26-6 over the 
next three minutes on the 
strength of two 3-pointers 
from LaBradford Smith, who 
had 10 points in the half, one 
from Keith Williams and a 
three-point play from 
Cornelius Holden. 
Vanderbilt pulled within 11 
points three times, the last 
at :i8-27 at the 2:51 mark. 
before Louisville scored 10 
of the final 14 points in the 
half for a 48-31 lead at the 
break. 
Kansas 86, SMU 53 
DALLAS-Terry Brown hit four 3-pointers and scored 14 points to lead second­ranked Kansas to an 86-53 victory Wednesday night over badly-outshot Southern Methodist. 
Kansas (8-0) trailed only once as it had six players in double figures. Mark Handall, Pekka Markkanen, and Kevin Pritchard had 12 points apieee while Freeman West and Mike Maddox added 1 0 each. 
SMU (1-4) was led by Heginald Muhammad who had 13 points and Vernon Perdue, who chipped in with 10. 
Kansas outshot SMU 57 percent to 37 percent and outrebounded the Mustangs 33-28. 
Missouri 106,
Hawaii Loa 48 
COLUMBIA, Mo.-Fourth­
ranked Missouri shot a 
school-record 75 percent 
and Doug Smith scored 17 
points to lead five players in 
double figures as the Tigers 
beat NAJA member Hawaii 
Loa 106-48 Wednesday 
night. 
Missouri (6-0), which won 
its 20th straight home game, 
opened the game with a 23-4 
burst, led by Nathan 
Buntin's 13 points. The 
Tigers led 56-23 at halftime 
while shooting 83 pereent. 
The 75 percent for the game 
broke the record of 73 
percent against Iowa State 
in 1982. 
Michigan 100, 
Central Michigan 51 
ANN ARBOH, Mich. ­
Michigan led the nation in 
field goal percentage last 
season, hitting 56.6 percent 
of its shots en route to the 
national championship, and 
it appears the Wolverines 
are trying for that 
distinction again. 
The eighth-ranked 
Wolverines shot 80 pereent 
in the first half and 56 
percent overall en route to a 
100-51 victory over Central 
Miehigan on Wednesday 
night. 
"We got good shots and 
made them," Michigan coach 
Steve Fisher said. "It was a 
game that was a little easier 
than we thought it would 
be." 
Terry Mills scored all his 17 points in the first half, helping Michigan to a 53-24 halftime lead. Sean Higgins led the Wolverines with 18 points, Rumeal Robinson had 17 and Loy Vaught 12 as the Wolverines won their fourth straight after dropping their opening game. 
"They feel good about themselves," Fisher said of his starters. "They know they played well. They know they played hard. It's another step in the direction we want to go." 
Central Michigan, which is 1-14 against Michigan and has dropped the last 11 meetings, made only 19 of67 shots for 28.4 pereent, well below its season average of 47.6. 

Duran wants to end 'No mas' talk 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -Roberto 
Duran wears the pride of his 
accomplishments for everyone 
to see. He tries to cover his dis­
grace with a verbal blanket. 
That blanket, however, has 
grown ragged with use. 
Thursday night, outdoors at 
the Mirage, Duran, 38, will try 
to put a final bright patch on 
his crazy quilt career by beating 
Sugar Ray Leonard. 
"Hey, Sugar Hay Robinson 
(the late welterweight and mid­
dleweight champion) and 
Hoberto Duran are the two 
greatest fighters ever to step 
into a ring," Duran said. 
"I get tired of people asking 
me about New Orleans." 
In the eighth round at New Orleans Nov. 25, 1980, Duran, who had beaten Leonard on a close but unanimous decision in 15 rounds six months earlier at Montreal, waved his right fist in resignation and muttered, "No mas." 
"After the New Orleans fight, I won two more titles," Duran said. "I beat Davey Moore (for the World Boxing Association junior middleweight crown) and Iran Barkley (for the World Boxing Council middleweight championship), but all that people talk about is 'no mas.' " 
'The two words became part of boxing's lexicon. They were used in routines by late night television hosts and standup comics. 
Duran, who had ruled the lightweight division for eight years during the 1970s and was known as "Hands of Stone," was ridiculed as "Belly of Jelly." 
He claimed at the time he suf­fered stomach cramps. 
Now he says, 'Til tell the press after I beat Leonard why I quit." 
Leonard, 33, has said, "I think I just frustrated him." That is the generally accepted theory. 
Leonard, who had gone toe­to-toe with Duran at Montreal, used his speed and had Duran lunging and lurching at New Orleans. In the round before Duran surprisingly auit, Leonard taunted and mocked the king of machismo. 

APPhokJ 
Sugar Ray Leonard and Roberto Duran pose at a news conference promoting their fight for the WBC super middleweight championship. Leonard and Duran, who have split two previous meetings, will square 
off Thursday night at Las Vegas. 
The victory, however, was a 
hollow one for Leonard, whose 
pride has been fired by five 
world championships and his 
position as the premier fighter 
of the 1980s despite three re­
tirements. 
"I was never given credit for 
that," Leonard said. "I beat 
him fair and square. lie was 
the star. He got more play than 
I did. It was Duran's doing, not 
Ray's doing. That's what ticked 
me off. 
"That (Duran's act) robbed me of my accomplishment." Leonard is a 2-1 favorite to win the rubber match. 
There was no immediate rub­ber match because Leonard was afraid the public might view Duran's action as being calculated to set up a third fight. 
Then, Leonard retired for the first time in 1982 after retinal surgery on his left eye and Duran's career went into de­cline. Leonard has said he might not fight again after Thursday night, but that there will not be a retirement an­nouncement. 
"Nobody would believe me anyway," he said. 
Now that it's finally here, the rubber mateh is much bigger than it would have been had Leonard won a decision at New Orleans and if it had been held soon after that. 
"If it wouldn't have been for that bizarre ending, it wouldn't be this big," Leonard said. 
"This will be the biggest event in the history of boxing," pro­moter Bob Arum said. 
The scheduled 12-round match at a 16,:i05-seat stadium will begin about 7:40 p.m. PST and will be shown on pay-per­view and closed-cireuit televi­sion. 
Arum said 13 million homes will be available for pay-per­view TV at an average price of $32. 
The most homes available previously were nine million for the Leonard-Thomas Hearns fight June 12 and the biggest sales percentage was nine per­
eent for the Leonard-Marvelous Marvin Hagler match in 1987, according to Arum. 
The promoter said Leonard, who is guaranteed $15 million, could make as much as $21 million. 

Z!ETO ~ T!Hl!E 
!HIE~ 7f~O!NJS fLOW® ~11 
Friday night 10:00 -1:00 ~~5 
NIGHTCI.US 



Thursday, December 7, 1989 The Observer page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

BYU lineman wins Outland award 
The NO women's basketball team defeated Indiana 74-67 Wednesday night at Bloomington, Ind. 
Women's Lacrosse Club will have a meeting for anyone interested in joining the club Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Center. Anyone with questions should call 284-4027 or 284-4117. 
In the NBA Wednesday, Boston bounced New York 113­98, Philadelphia hammered Miami 121-98. Atlanta tripped Orlando 118-11 0, Indiana trounced Denver 136-117 and San Antonio edged Golden State 121-119. 
In Wednesday's NHL action, the New York Islanders beat Hartford 4-3, the New York Rangers defeated New Jersey 5­;{, Pittsburgh sliced Washington 5-3, Montreal slapped Minnesota 4-1, Chicago knocked off Toronto 6-4, Winnipeg shaved Calgary 4-3 and Los Angeles slipped by Vancouver 5­4 in overtime. 
NEW YORK (AP) Mohammed "Moe" Elewonibi was minding his business, hav-· ing a little fun booting a soccer ball around on the campus of Snow Junior College in Ephraim, Utah, when the foot­ball coach wandered by, caught a glimpse of him and led him away. 
Two years later, the 6-foot-5, 
290-pounder found himself at 
Brigham Young University and 
Wednesday he was named win­
ner of the Outland Trophy as 
the best college lineman in 
America. 
Elewonibi beat out Morris "Moe" Gardner, junior nose tackle from Illinois and Michael Tanks, senior center from Florida State for the award presented by the Football Writers Association of America. He is BYU's second Outland winner in four years, following Jason Buck of the Cincinnati Bengals, who took the award in 1986. 
Elewonibi, a native of Nigeria who grew up in Kamloops, British Columbia, never played high school football. "I was small when I came to Canada," he said. "I wasn't even tall enough to play basketball." 
Soccer was his game but when he got to Snow JC, he found the sport limited to club status. "There were guys from the Middle East and Africa and 

"The Travelers helps you develop your own talents, but we work as a team here. 
We learn a lot from each other." 
Ernesto Jaramillo, Programmer/Analyst-Data Processing. University of Southwestern Louisiana, Class of 1984 
At The Travelers, you'll hear our employees talk a lot about cooperation. They enjoy the mutu­ally supportive environment that makes our work more rewarding. And helps make The Travelers one of the most competitive insurance and finan­cial services companies in the business. 
Right now, we have a diverse range of entry­level positions for college graduates with Ernesto's brand of enthusiasm. Careers in finance, under­writing, data processing, engineering, actuarial and more. All offering outstanding growth potential. 
And, no matter where you start at The Trav­elers, we're committed to providing you with the training you need to develop professionally. In fact, we've built a state-of-the-art education center for just that purpose. 
The Travelers is a $50 billion leader in the rapidly changing insurance and financial services industry. If you have the ability and ambition to help our team compete in an exciting, dynamic business, find out more about the many challeng­ing opportunities and training programs we offer. 
Sign up for an interview at your placement office. Or send your resume and a copy of your transcript to: Antonia Nabholz, Assistant Director, College Relations, The Travelers Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. 
INTERVIEWS: 2/13 & 14, '90 SIGN UP BEFORE: 1/17/90 
TheTravelerSJ' 
You're better off under the Umbrella'!' 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183 An Equal Opportunity Employer 
we played a little pickup soc­cer," he said. " But there were no other teams for us to play. We even played BYU once and lost 13-0." 
By then, though, he had grown large enough to try other things. So he had no hesi­tation about playing football. His first game was less than a rousing success, however, with Snow losing, 41-7. 
"I was emotional thinking about it, thinking if I did this or that," he said. ''I'm competitive by nature. I don't like to lose. I worked on my technique and my footwork and by the end of the season, I was as good as you can get in junior college." 
Meetings 
continued from page 16 
in years before. It should be intriguing to see the results of the Joe Carter trade. I wonder how Carter could help a team he actually enjoys playing for, particularly a potential contender like San Diego (provided the Padres do not once again choose to start their season around late August). We also finally will realize whether Sandy Alomar is as good as everybody has been saying for the last couple of years. 
Boston seems to have made one of the biggest moves of all by signing Jeff Reardon. That should shore up the Red Sox bullpen woes, created when Lee Smith's career burned out faster than expected. It still remains to be seen whether the Sox will deal Mike Greenwell or Ellis Burks for some starting pitchers. 
W: ~a Peace Corps volun&eer. CaJI us all-.80()...424-8580, Est. 9::1. 


----~-----~~-------~­

Gerardi's newfound confidence leads to productive start 
start has done a tot for his eon-competmg at 15H the past two 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Gerardi has recorded individ-fidence. seasons, adds that the change Associate Sports Editor ual championships in the "We go to the tournament at in weight div.i~.ions also may 
Michigan State Invitational and 
Mark (iPrardi has b1wn 
the St. Louis Open. Most re-

wrestling since tlw age of 
eently, Gerardi placed fourth in 
seven. but his attraction to the 
the 16 7 -pound bracket at last 
sport wasn't exactly love at 
weekend's prestigious Las 
first sight. 
Vngas Invitational. 

"My dad had done some 
Gerardi's early accomplish-wrestling in high school, so he 
ments this season are all the 
brought my brother and me 
more remarkable in that they
down to some local high 
follow what some may have 
school." recalls Notre Dame's 
considered a disappointing
167-pound wrestler. "I hated it 
sophomore season. Following a at first. We went to a few tour­
29-H freshman campaign in naments whnre my brother 
which he was named to the 
wrestled, but it took a couple of 
Amateur Wrestling News Mark Gerardi
them before I entered one." 
Freshman All-Star team, As far as Irish coach Fran
Fortunately for Fran McCann Gerardi fell victim to the McCann is concerned, Gerardi'sand the Fighting Irish wrestling sophomore jinx, dropping to rejuvenation is all a matter of 
team, Gerardi eventually 
21-14 last season. renewed confidence. 
changed his attitude. The junior "I can't put my linger on it, "We felt he's always had thefrom El Cajon, Calif., has but I really didn't wrestle as talent to do really well," saidstarted all three years at Notre well as I could," said Gerardi. McCann. "It's been a confidenceDame and is off to his best "Now I'm starting to get back thing. Getting off to a goodstart ever this season. to where I was freshman year." 
Darville gets 18-month sentence 
MINNEAPOLIS (API -LuthPr house for contempt of court. Fitzgerald said the circum­
Darville was snntenced The workhouse term will be stances merited a stiffer pun­
Wednesday to 1 H months at served after the prison sentence ishment. 
Stillwater state prison for is completed. "The position of trust that 
stealing $186,000 from the The contempt sentence was Mr. Darville had at the 
University of Minnesota when for failing to obey a court University of Minnesota was vi­
he headed its minority affairs order that Darville reveal olated," he said. 
office. names of athletes he said had "The offenses were com mit­
A jury last month convicted given the money to. ted with a high degree of plan­Darville of' thren felony counts Darville, 37, was sentenced to ning over an extended and of theft by swindle despite his 1 H months in prison on one lengthy period of time," the testimony that he gave the count, 15 months on the second judge added. money to student-athletes and eount and one yHar and one day other students on orders from on the third count. Fitzgerald Prosecutor Pete Connors had his superiors at the university. then ordered the sentences to sought a minimum sentence of The prosecution contended he run concurrently, said the 54 months. took the money for his personal judge's law clerk, John Conley. use and univHrsity officials de­Darville will get credit for Darville showed little emotion nied knowledge of any such time already served in jail, when the verdict was read. payments. which totals about 111 days, Before sentencing, he spoke on 
Hennepin County District Conley said. his own behalf, thanking the .Judge Patrick Fitzgerald also Under Minnesota sentencing court for "the gracious manner sentfmced Darville to six guidelines. Darville could have 
in which (Fitzgerald) executHd months at the county work-n~eeived probation. But the trial." 
Phelps says it hurt "for us to trying to run an up-tnmpo of­
Phelps 
have 16 turnovers (in the first fense.
continued from page 16 
half against Indiana) where we 

"ThH exact game plan was to since we don't have LaPhonso only scored 29 points. If you drive on Indiana." said Phelps. Ellis inside." score shooting 50 percent on "Forget the perimeter shooting, 
Last year Ellery provided eight of those 16 possessions, drive on Indiana, force them to some much-needed spark early you have the possibility of get­help, kick it back and shoot. I in the season, particularly in ting another 16 points, well think that's where we rushed the Big Four Classic against then, you actually are what we too many shots and we made Kentucky, when he scored 15 were in the second half, when too many turnovers on transi­points and wHnt 4 for 6 from Wf~ only had 5 turnovers and tion scores or turnovers on half behind the three-point stripe. scored 43 points." court situations by playing too Mkhigan State. where he's al­ways done well but had never won, and he wins it. Then, he'd never done all that well in St. Louis, and he wins that too.That has helped his conli­
dence a lot." 
McCann and assistant coach Ricky Stewart continually em­phasizes the importance of eon­
fidence to all his wrestlers, Gerardi says. 
"They tell us that if you don't think you can win, you won't be able to do it," said Gerardi, who had a California state record 128 consecutive wins while in high school. "You have to have faith in your abilities and know when you go out there that you can win." 
Gerardi, who is wrestling at 167 pounds this year after 
haVI~ made a dlflen~nee. 
"My first year, 15H was about right for me, but last year was the first time I had to get down to my weight," said GPrardi. "I kept it down to my wrestling weight, but it may have had an 
effect  on  me. This  ( 16 71  is  
fairly  close  to  my  natural  
weight."  

McCann also believes that the change in weight elasses might have played a factor in Gerardi's improvement. 
"It might have helped," said McCann. "lie seems a little stronger. lin didn't really have to cut lots of weight, but it has given him o.~e less thing to worry about. 



The Observer I John Cluver 
Daimon Sweet (22) led Notre Dame in scoring and rebounding Tuesday night at Indiana with 16 points and six boards. Sweet will get the second start of his Notre Dame career Saturday. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
lliE CONSTITIITION 
'Il1c w,>r.:is we li\·c l:tl· 
J , , ,••o·:n•l 
·'~ ....... t 

---------------~--------­
------l 
December 7, 1989 The Observer 
15 I 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Lecture, "Oxidation-Reduction Reactions of
!fur-Containing Radicals and Contributions to Building Scale of Reduction Potentials," Prof. David Armstrong, 
adiation Laboratory, NO. Conference Theatre, Radiation .ab. 
CAMPUS 

9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Annual UNICEF card and gift sale. lesburgh Library. 
7 p.m. Video presentation, "One Woman's Voice: A Helleetion by Theresa Kane, HSM," followed by a prayer serviee on women's role in the Church. Multi-purpose room, Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by the Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women. 
7 p.m. Saint Mary's Madrigal Dinner. Regina Hall, North Lounge. 
MENUS 

Notre Dame 
BBQ Hibs Baked Cajun Cod Hot Pastrami Sandwich Vineyard Veg w/ Cheese 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
BILL WATTERSON 
0\-\ R\GIH! ~0\J 'ffi\1'\K 1'\<\ 

T\-\E.t~ A.\.1.. itEm ~ND FI>.Ll\NG-RlR TIIAT?.' Wl-\0 
DIGES\IIJE TAAC.T'. l'-lCl A'rll l. TALKI/Ir; TC:l IF i\4ER£. 
SI<P-11'-\S ~~ 1>.\.L. ARENt ~'( \IQNSIERS [)OV.I~ n\ERE ?.' 
JAY HOSLER 
CROSSWORD 

24 "Creek Mary's 34 Barrier for 47 Author Turin et Blood" author Becker al. -Brown 48 Chao-chaos:
38 Signifying 25 Personate . Abbr.
39Chou En-­
51 Tolerate27 Playwrights' 
40 "Spring ahead" 
52 Fake it divs. 
period in N.Y.C. 
53 Beginning28 Paid athlete 42 Desert shrub 55"The-the 
30 "Abraham limit"
43"-on
Lincoln" Indolence": 58 Ye-shoppe
dramatist 
Keats 59 Ship's dining 32 "So few," to room
44 Prepare a table 
W.S.C. 
61 Pershing's W.W. 
45 Not dilatory 
33 Teacher of I command Samuel 46 Able; skillful 62 Erwin of movies 
ACROSS 
1-Smithof 
N.F.L. fame &Singer­James 10 River to the Baltic 14 Rubber capital, 
once 15lndigo 16 Indian antelope 17 -ofburden 18 Of a kind of 
schizophrenia 20 Kind of prof. 21 Rope fiber 22 Emulate Cicero 23 Food leavened 
with sour milk 26 Anderson's "High-" 

27 Small harpsichord 29 Apple juices 31 -suzette 32 Lease signer 35 Mediocre 36 Sometimes it's on draft 371n between jobs 41 A basis for capitalism 44 Three-time P GA champ 45-out (eliminated) 48 Fasten anew 49 Energy unit 50 Doris Day film: 
1950 
54 Tubby 56 Nolackies 57 Mighty mite 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.-.,:.;.:+:.....,_, t=t::o:+:::+::-1 
,II! ••m~-~~tllitt!l..I,:; 


60 Cowgirls? 62 Door part 63 Shaw opus 64 Selvage 
65 Baby-sits 66 Polanski film 67 Places for 
loafers 68 Pressures, in a way 
DOWN 1-aurhum 2 Haw. guitars 3 Number 2 woods for Trevino 4 John Williams ensemble 5 Pismire 6 Sculptor Epstein 7 "I lived-": Frost 8 Saltpeter, to Englishmen 9 Dock workers' org. 10"-of honeysuckle ...": 0. Henry 11 Please a fund-raiser 12 Bawd ler was 
one
13 Speedy ones 19 "-,to sleep ...":Hamlet 21 Bombay or jaguarundi 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



~ ~t4NS N~P! ON6-~ -r--SH 112:r 'f ON~ T~A­
.SCO~ CO~--· @ I.VSI+J~ ldf.P~VI1nz_,u;>: s=ct., *w11s-s;HOw,r..~'-5 A'Pf4e~ JCN I $. S,..CD
~~ 
£Jb 

~lJ13Mtr VDVIZ.. ~·'tN~ -ro QJB CIF'F&ee 
~ \4./JSD.,~ ~­****************************••····~··~~··~~~­
Sports 


Thursday, December 7, 1989 
Texas Express reaches prime time 
Bennett, Sweet get starting nod over Fredrick, Jackson 
By KEN TYSIAC played very well in (last year's donsn 't make a difference how Sports Writer NCAA) tournament. many pPople are in the arena, 
"We've got to try to get Sweet says of playing in 
Sophomore guards Elmer something going early. We've Assembly Hall in Bloomington, Bennett and Daimon Sweet, been sluggish, and I want those "You don't think about the tra­
guys relaxed. I want it (the dition of the place. You just
who make up Notre Dame's 
lineup change) as a positive, want to go in, do your job, win, 
"Texas Express" backcourt, 
sparkled Tuesday against not a negative. I don't want and leave. Unfortunately we Indiana, earning the right to people saying they've lost their didn't win, but we still had to start for the Irish on Saturday job. They haven't lost their job. leave." 
against Marquette. Those two guys are due to ex­••• plode and they will explode." 
Bennett and Sweet will re­Phelps says he plans on using Irish forward Kevin Ellery, place slumping senior co-cap­a live-man rotation at those who sum~red an ankle injury in tains Joe Fredrick and Jamere guard positions n~gardless of the first half against Indiana, Jackson in the starting lineup who starts, so hedrick and probably will not play against at the Bradley Center in Jackson need not worry about Marquette. According to Milwaukee. Irish coach Digger a lack of playing time. But he Phelps, Ellery's ankle has been Phelps is concerned about the believes that Sweet and Bennett bothering him for the past play of Fredrick (1 0.0 ppg) and should be proud of their ac­three weeks. Jackson (6. 7 ppg), but he feels complishments thus far. that they may play better com­"They've earned it. They're "I know we're going to miss 
Kevin Ellery," says Phelps, "We
ing off the bench. hot," he praises. 
Sweet was more than hot needed to get Kevin back into a "You try a different bat if against Indiana. lie was on groove because he played very you're in a slump, or you may lire, hitting 8 out of 9 shots well for us last fall against from the field and finishing Kentucky and Indiana, as well
have to open your stance a little The Olserver I John Cluver bit more in baseball, but you with a team-high 16 points and as UCLA. He's so powerful for Fresh off a 15-point performance Tuesday night at Indiana, Elmer keep swinging," says Phelps. 7 rebounds. Bennett also shot us inside, and that's something Bennett (12) will get his first start of the year Saturday at Marquette. "But in Fred's situation, (we'd well, scoring 15 points and we need right now, especially Bennett and fellow sophomore Daimon Sweet will replace Irish co­like to) go back to where he connecting on 6 out of 11 from captains Joe Fredrick and Jamere Jackson, who have slumped in came off the bench against the field. losses to Louisville and Indiana. Vanderbilt and Georgetown and "After your first season it see PHELPS I page 14 
Holtz says Irish ought to be No. 1 if they top Colorado in bowl game 
NEW YORK (AP) -Notre the time of the game) and we said. "And Colorado has done Dame coach Lou Holtz got in were ranked No. 1 for 12 well in big games this season. his first -and supposedly last straight weeks.... But we're not They beat Oklahoma, they beat -words Wednesday on the going to campaign for No. 1. Nebraska and they beat a national championship debate This is the last time I'm going pretty good Illinois team 38-7. in college football. to talk about it." "Let's face it, no team is in­
Holtz said the fourth-ranked Colorado coach Bill volved in games of this magni­
Fighting Irish could make a McCartney, who attended NBC's tude very often. We didn't have "strong case" for the title by Orange Bowl news conference, that much experience last yearbeating top-ranked Colorado in knows his 11-0 Buffaloes can when we won the national the Orange Bowl even if No. 2 clinch the national title by championship."Miami defeats Alabama in the beating Notre Dame. But he Colorado, the only major un­Sugar Bowl and No. 3 Michigan thinks Notre Dame may need defeated team in the country,
beats Southern Cal in the Rose help to win its second straight will be playing for its first na­Bowl. title. tional title. 
According to Holtz, the "If Miami beats Alabama and "This is a new experience for biggest argument in Notre Notre Dame beats us, I'd have us," McCartney said. "It would Dame's favor is its backbreak­to go with Miami because they be easy for us to say, 'We're ing schedule. Colorado is the beat Notre Dame," McCartney going to the Orange Bowl,' and 
ninth bowl team the righting said. "However, I agree with be satisfied with that. But Irish will play in their 13-game Lou that Notre Dame played that's not going to happen be­season. the most difficult schedule." cause we realize what's at 
"We've had as big a mountain Although Notre Dame has stake. to climb as anybody in a long more big-game experience than time," Holtz said via speaker­Colorado, Holtz doesn't con­"This is a very special time phone from his vacation home sider that a major factor. for Colorado. We haven't been in Orlando, Pia. "Coach McCartney was in a in this position before. The en­
"We played four teams who lot of big games (as an assis­tire state and the city of were ranked in the Top 10 (at tant coach) at Michigan," Holtz Boulder are electrified." 
Bowls should wait until after season before making bids 
Last weekend's Georgia­
That doesn't ring true when you look at how each The only poetic justice about this is that now the Georgia Tech game perfectly team fared against those schedules. One of Peach Bowl is stuck with one of the worst matchups demonstrated why bowls never Georgia's losses was to a weak South Carolina in the postseason. How many peopln are really should be allowed to extend team, and Florida was the only decent team that the looking forward to a Georgia-Syracuse eontl~st? invitations to teams before the Bulldogs managed to defeat. ••• season is completely over. Tech also fell to South Carolina when the Jackets Aside from Kansas' upsets of LSU and UNLV in 
Georgia Tech whipped its underwent an 0-3 start to their season. After that, the Dodge NIT last month, the first trun college 
intrastate rival 33-22 to close the Jackets won seven of their remaining eight basketball excitement of the season has comn from out the season at 7-4. With the games, including a 30-14 upset of Clemson. Georgia this week's ACC-Big East Challenge. loss, the Bulldogs fell to 6-5. did not beat a single team of that stature. Georgia Tech's last-second win over Pitt and Seton 
In the twisted logic of the Steve Megargee I used to think that one of the major positive llall's overtime victory against Wake Forest have bowl committees, that means Assistant Sports points about second-tier bowl games (the ones not provided a refreshing change after having to endure Georgia will play a bowl while Editor played on New Year's Day) was that it gave the those traditionally weak early-season matehups like 
Georgia Tech will not. --------:~ Wisconsins and Wake Forests of the world a reward Georgetown-Hawaii Loa and Kansas-Tennessee­
had a better record than (;eorgia and soundly for the occasional 7-4 season. National powers like Martin. defeated the Bulldogs, yet Georgia gets the Peach Pitt and Texas A&M might consider the post-season Of course, another interesting early-season tour­Bowl berth. Peaeh Bowl scouts, obviously assuming trip to El Paso for something called the John nament could arise if you gathered up all of that Georgia would knock off Tech, already had Hancock Bowl a disappointment, but Duke and Oklahoma's pre-conference opponents and had them given an invitation to the Bulldogs a full week Texas Tech probably aren't bothered with traveling play a round robin tournament. First-round beforehand. to Birmingham, Ala., for the All-American Bowl. matchups could include Northeastern Illinois vs. 
The problem is that in this case, the Peach Bowl Traditional powers who annually make New Alaska-Anchorage and U.S. International vs. Angelo scouts weren't the best predictors in the world. Year's Day bowl appearances the season goal won't State. 
One could argue that Georgia's loss to Tech was a be satisfied with anything less. The only teams truly ••• fluke, and the only reason the Bulldogs had a worse happy about going to ordinary cities for minor bowl These winter baseball meetings seem to have fea­record was because they played in a tougher confer­games are those schools that are unaccustomed to tured more dealing of big-name players than ence (Georgia is a Southeastern Conference member, any type of postseason. The Peach Bowl seemed to while Tech plays in the Atlantic Coast Conference). forget that when it gave Georgia an early invitation. see MEETINGS I page 13 








