
VOL. XXII, NO. 131 TUESDAY, MAY 2, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

May Day rallies gather worldwide 
Associated Press holding a poster of Soviet Pres­
ident Mikhail Gorbachev was 
Poles shouted "Down with dragged away by police in communism!" at a May Day Czechoslovakia. march in Warsaw, Soviet Ar­menians defied a ban on Around the world, thousands demonstrations, and rallies be­gathered on the international came riots in South Korea and labor day to celebrate their Czechoslovakia as workers gains with banners and bal­Monday marked their loons, or protest their losses worldwide holiday._ with hurled rocks and smashed 
windows. 
Clashes in Turkey left 36 Up to 100,000 Solidarity sup­people injured, riot squads porters marched through War­fired tear gas when leftists saw in the union's first legal tried to march on the U.S. em­May Day gathering since it was bassy in the Philippines, and suppressed eight years ago. thousands burned U.S. flags in Workers chanted "Down with Honduras. communism!" during the im­
pressive show of strength. 
The Soviet Union held a tradi­"We not only can organize tional parade through Red uprisings . . . we can also build Square, China used the occa­a normal democratric order," sion to try to ease a burgeoning 
see MAY I page 3 
student uprising, and a man 
NO faculty unionization may encounter 'major difficulties' 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER for the faculty, is currently a union and I myself have ber argued that although the in December of 1988. The task Senior Staff Reporter limited to formulating the profound reservations about faculty's main function was to force, according to the resolu­opinions of the faculty, but it." teach, they also had families tion, "neither consulted nor Editor's note: This is the can not make real changes in Kerby said that the ul­and loved ones to consider if included" members of the second part of a two-part University policy. timate direction unions take their benefits or lifestyles senate's Benefits Committee story on the possible unioniza­Kerby said that although sometimes is the possibility of were threatened. before recommending that in­tion of the Notre Dame fac­changes are needed in the a strike, and to do so would The senator, who requested creased costs in health care ulty. present system of faculty in­jeopardize the educational anonymity, cited the recent benefits be passed on to fac­
Unionizing the Notre Dame fluence in University policy, function of professors. change in faculty health ulty members. faculty may not be the ideal and a faculty union might be "A professorial faculty benefits as evidence that the The general opinion of the solution to the current dissat­implemented if nothing else is would be reluctant to take ac­faculty is not well-served by faculty on the issue has not isfaction some faculty mem­done to improve the situation, tion that would penalize the administration. Increases yet been surveyed by the Fac­bers have with their lack of unions may not be the best op­teaching," said Kerby. in health benefits were ulty Senate. Senator influence in University policy, tion. Some faculty members recently passed on to the fac­Mohamed Gad-el-Hak said according to Faculty Senator "My main thrust in speak­agree with Kerby, saying that ulty, despite resolutions given that the senate does not pres­Robert Kerby. ing about faculty unionization to strike would hurt the stu­to the administration request­ently have time to survey the 
Many faculty are upset with is to get more faculty input in dents far more than it might ing they not be. faculty, but that it would be a 
the present condition of their the decision-making help the faculty. Some profes­An administrative task priority next year. say in matters of concern to processes of the University," sors see this as contrary to force on faculty benefits was Gad-el-Hak agreed with the University. Faculty Sen­said Kerby. "However, I can their goal as teachers. critcized in a resolution ate, the representative body see some major difficulties in However, one senate mem-passed by the Faculty Senate see UNION I page 4 
Awards announced for Annual Art Exhibition 
By CATHY GLENN The Annual Student Art Ex­News Staff hibition has been handled dif­
ferently throughout the years 
Twelve student art exhibition in terms of judging. At times it awards and five departmental has been judged by faculty, out-awards were announced April siders, and sometimes was not 28, kicking off the Annual Stu­judged at all. dent Art Exhibition, which Herbert Hintze's work en­takes place from April 28-May titled "Large Black Gate" 
21. received the Walter R. 
The works in the exhibition Beardsley Award (Best of are done by graduate and un­Show). Others receiving dergraduate students who have awards were Melanie Micozzi, taken or are presently enrolled Rosalind Winner, Tracy Dippo, in an art department course. Troy Gerth, Julie Brown, Amy 
The exhibits were judged by Taschler, Patrick Dunne, Jose Professor Robert Leader, pro­Perez, Teresa Westfall, Rich­fessor of art and design at ard Skendzel, Mary Feliz, Notre Dame. "The students got Timothy Irvine, Brian to submit something and then Doherty, Greg Malcolm, and it was juried," said Leader in Michele Koch. explaining how the works were The winning exhibits and accepted for the exhibit. Many others can be seen at the Isis 

The at.erver I Helen! Korwek 
students submitted three or Gallery in the the Riley Hall of 
Art students have the opportunity to display their work in the Art Building's Isis Gallery during the Student
four works, but not all were ac­Art and Design from 8:30a.m.­cepted for the exhibition. 5 p.m. through Friday. Art Exhibit. 
----------~ --­
page 2-The Observer Tuesday, May 2, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Quality of campus media The West German government began a new effort Monday to rally NATO allies behind its proposal for superpower talks on reducing short-range nuclear weapons, which has caused a dis­
is everyone's concern 
pute with the United States and Britain. Foreign Minister Hans­
Dietrich Genscher was quoted as saying West Germany's argu­ment must have "special weight" because it is the alliance's front line, and a war with such battlefield-range weapons would be fought on its territory. Both the United States and Britain say the negotiations proposed by Chancellor Helmut Kohl might endanger Western security. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
The space shuttle Atlantis has been rescheduled for launch by NASA for Thursday afternoon after technicians working around the clock did a "bang-up job" in replacing two faulty fuel system parts. The space agency said that they were optimistic about the launch and gave the signal to start a new countdown Tuesday morning. 
"Bloom County" will be discontiued on Aug. 6, and its creator, Berke Breathed, will begin a new, Sunday-only strip the next month, according to an announcement from the Washington Post Writers Group. Breathed was quoted as saying that "A good comic strip is no more eternal than a ripe melon." Breathed has reportedly been considering discontinuing the comic strip for over a year. 
Thousands of youngsters nationwide went silent Monday when a $7 million science project whisked them to the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea, live and in color. Television screens showed them the satellite-relayed view of a camera-equipped submersible robot being towed over the ocean floor. It was the first of two weeks of live broadcasts to an expected 250,000 stu­dents at 13 museums from British Columbia to Florida. The project suffered a temporary setback last week when the 7-foot­long robot Jason, a newer version of the camera-carrying sub­mersible that explored the sunken ocean liner Titanic, sank among the ruins of an ancient Roman trading ship off the coast of Italy. The project sponsors include Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Turner Broadcasting System Inc., the National Geo­graphic Society and Electronic Data Systems. 
New gas taxes maybe implemented by the Bush administration despite Bush's "read my lips" pledge against new taxes. The administration is considering higher gasoline taxes for 1991 as part of a possible trade for concessions such as a lower capital 
gains tax, officials said Monday. Bush, however, told the annual meeting of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce that "I mean to live by what I've said: no new taxes." 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
The other day, an incident occured which 
caused me to reexamine exactly why I am 
working at The Observer. 
A professor of mine, in the middle of his lec­
ture to our class, launched into a five minute 
diatribe against The Observer. He lambasted 
our coverage of news events on campus, claim­
ing that The Observer failed to incite students' 
anger over a speaker who is coming to campus 
in the fall. 
It was improper for that professor to waste 
five minutes of our class time expounding on 
his personal views of The Observer. His lec­
tures, in the past, had been interesting and in­
formative; he did not need to try to spice them 
up with a little sensationalism. 
However, this incident raised a larger ques­
tion of attitudes towards campus media sources 
on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Another event which highlights the problem 
that exists was the event of WVFI's going off 
the air in the past weeks. Even people at The 
Observer who supposedly are well-informed of 
campus events, much less the average ND stu­
dent, for the most part failed to notice this oc­
curance. 
Campus media at Notre Dame is viewed in 
a poor light by the general community (if it is 
viewed1istened to at all). This is not a phenom­
enon restricted solely to The Observer and 
WVFI; Common Sense, Scholastic, and the 
other student-run media sources are the con­
stant subjects of abuse. 
There are two possible causes of this abuse. 
First, the media sources on campus may just 
be genuinely bad. Second, the media sources 
themselves may be alright; it just may be the 
attitudes of the community members which 
need to be changed. 
If the first cause is true, it is partially the 
fault of those currently in charge of campus 
media, including myself. However, it is also partially the responsibility of those complaining to do something about it. 
With a few exceptions, campus media at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is entirely student-run. The Observer, for example, has no advisor or professors guiding us ; the only adult who works for or with The Observer is our office manager. This sets us apart from most other school newspapers, who have full-time advisors or faculty members guiding them. As far as I 
OF INTEREST 

'It is entirely up to students to correct their media, if they feel it is lacking in quality or accuracy.' 
Matt Gallagher Executive News Editor 
------------------­
know, other media at Notre Dame also runs with little-to-no direction from non-students (although there are exceptions). 
Thus, it is entirely up to students to correct their media, if they feel it is lacking in quality or accuracy. Almost all campus media sources provide a forum such as The Observer's P.O. Box Qfor such feedback, an outlet which is also available to faculty and staff. Of course, the ideal way for a student who has a complaint regarding a campus media outlet to vent that complaint would be for them to join that media organization and work on fixing it. 
If the second cause for complaints is true, namely poor attitudes on the part of members of the community, it falls on the media to work on correcting those attitudes. The Observer is not the New York Tim~s; we do not pretend to be. Scholastic is not Newsweek; WVFI is not U93. Students haven't the resources or skill to approach that level of journalism. 
However, we do try to do what we do as well as we can. One thing relied upon by the media is feedback from its viewers1"eaders1isteners. A classroom or the dining hall is an inappro­priate forum for complaints about campus media. Not only is it not the function of those environments, but such feedback does not often reach those who can make changes for the bet­ter. It only happened that there were a large number of Observer employees in the class I mention above; if there were not, that profes­sor's valid opinions (however inappropriate the timing) would have never reached the attention of those who can implement changes. 
Matt Gallagher is a junior governmentiPPE major and Executive News Editor of The Ob­server. 
A triple suicide was committed by three young men in North Judson Saturday. Their bodies were found in a Starke County pole barn Saturday. A memorial service was held Monday at Winamac High School for the young men found dead in an ap­parent suicide pact. Autopsies conducted Sunday revealed they died of asphyxiation from carbon monoxide poisoning, according to Coroner Douglas O'Donnell. Derek W. Gilman, 18; Christian 
J. Blameuser, 19; and Douglas R. Frinkle, 20, had tucked suicide notes under the windshield wiper of a car left running in the barn, O'Donnell said. 
WEATHER 

Cool and cloudy 
Cloudy today with a 30 percent chance of showers, highs near 55. Gradual clearing in the evening, lows in the middle 30s. Partly sunny Wednesday with highs from 55 to 60. 
ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 

On May 2: e In 1863: Confederate General Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson was acci­dentally wounded by his own men during the battle of Chancellorsville, Va.. Jackson died eight days later of 
complications resulting from his wounds. e In 1945: The Soviet Union 
announced the fall of Berlin, and the Allies announced the surrender of Nazi troops in Italy and parts of Aus­tria. 
e In 1974: Former Vice Presi­dent Spiro Agnew was disbarred by the Maryland Court of Appeals, effectively preventing him from practicing law 
anywhere in the U.S. e Ten Years Ago: After hint­ing he might step down, "Tonight" show host Johnny Carson announced on his program that he would con­tinue as host "possibly into next year." 
S&P 500 +2.29 to 311.55 Currency exchange 
Mark.........006 to 1.8795 DM/$ Yen........+0.80 to 132.80¥/$ Pound... +.0010 to 1.689 $/£ 
Precious Metals 
Gold -47$3.15 to$380.70/oz. Silveri-0.045¢ to $5.646 I oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 
Juniors of all majors are strongly encouraged to bring their completed profile form and one copy to the Career and Placement Services of­fice prior to leaving campus this semester. 
SUB Musical Entertainment is looking for any one interested in programming musical entertainment events for next year. Come to a short meeting today at 6:30 in the Dooley Room, LaFortune. 
Summer Service Projects with $1200 scholarships are still available for eight weeks of work with the poor or disadvantaged in cities like Los Angeles, Peoria, Buffalo, Dallas and more. Stop by the Center for Social Concerns or call Sue Cunningham at 239-7867 for details. 
Transfer Orientation volunteers needed for next year. There will be an information meeting Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the student government offices. Call Dan at 283-1786 for niore information. 
Yearbook distribution continues today in the Dome office, LaFortune, from noon to 4 p.m. 
Seniors who received room deposit donation cards are asked to put their name and ID num­ber on this card and return it to Student Residences, Room 311 Administration Building. 
Iceberg D.ebate committee positions are being filled for next year. Those interested in any aspect of the debates are encouraged to contact Joe McKenna or the student body pres­ident or vice-president. 
Geographical clubs sponsoring baggage trucks must register with the Student Activities Office by May 3 in Room 315 LaFortune. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. -The Observer 

Tuesday's Staff 
Design Editor............................ Kathy Huston
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Design Assistant.................. Tricia Grohman Typesetters .........••...............•......... Tim Kiefer 
(219) 239-7471 ~···~·~~····~········~···································~Mike Kolar 
News Editor •...••.•..•.....•••... Florentine Hoelker Copy Editor............................... Laura Downs Sports Copy Editor .........•...... Scott Brutocao Accent Copy Editor............... Paige Smoron 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except Typists ........................................... Will Zamer dunng exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by students of the ··· ·····························•····· .............. Diana Bradley Umversity of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary·s College. Subscnptions may be pur­
ND Day Editor .............•. Margaret McCloskey Ads Designers .•...•........................ Val Poletto
chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wnting The Observe'r. ·~·~~~···~~··· ······~~·~~····Tammy Martinez
The Observer is a member of The Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 
InformatiOn comp1led from Observer wires and Observer staff reports 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 
Tuesday, May 2, 1989 
The Observer page 3 
Student Senate approves Student Activity Fee budget 
By JEFF SWANSON 
Staff Reporter 
The Student Senate approved the Student Activity Fee Budget for the 1989-1990 school year Monday evening. 
The total budget is $410,000, with $149,125 going towards al­locations, $171,425 to the Stu­dent Union Board, and $89,450 for Student Government. 
$63,625 of allocations will go to clubs and organizations. Also included under the alloca­tions heading are the budgets for each class and the Hall Presidents' Council. 
Student Body Treasurer Guy Weismantel said, "There should be no financial trouble next year." He said that there should be a substantial amount of money left over from last year's budget which will be set aside in a carry-over contin­gency fund in the General Ac­counting Office. 
The fund exists for any un­planned events which may re­quire funding, he said. "Ifclubs have a situation in which they need to appeal for more money, the contingency fund may be used," Weismantel said. 
In other business, District 4 Senator Sigi Loya said that the "beautification" of the Mod Quad will take place during the summer. Loy a said that he would. appreciate any sugges­tions that he could pass on to the maintenance department. 
In the process Loya said that the volleyball sand court may be relocated. "The administra­tion does not like residence areas to be used for recrea­tional purposes," he said. 
The senators also announced 
a tentative schedule for a 
shuttle from .the airport and the 
Post­


Graduate Credit 
Jordan Automall
from 
Answer the Following Test Questions True or False 
1. You have graduated, or will graduate, with a Bachelor's or Advanced degree between October 1, 1988 and January 31, 1990. 
True/False. 
2. 
Pre-approved financing from Ford Credit Is available. True/False. 

3. 
$400 cash back from Ford Motor Company can be yours. True/False. 

4. 
You must purchase or lease an eligible vehicle from stock by December 31, 1989. True/False. 


If you answered true to all of the above, you're on your way to 



Jordan Ford-Lincoln Mercury 609 E. Jefferson Blvd. Mishawaka, IN 46545 phone 259-1981 
purchasing a new Ford [Lincoln­Mercury). To qualify for pre­approved credit: 1. You must have verifiable employment beginning within 120 days after vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient to cover ordinary living expenses, as well as a car payment. 2. A prior credit history is not necessary, but if you have one, It must be satisfactory. 
Come in to [Dealer Name], a total quality Ford [Lincoln-Mercury] dealer for complete details. 
Ford Credit Gets You Going 
Warsaw Solidarity leader Zbig­niew Bujak told the crowd, re­ferring to recent reforms that resulted in Solidarity's legalization and opposition par­ticipation in elections. 
Warsaw's main events were peaceful, but violent clashes were reported in the cities of Wroclaw and Gdansk when militant Solidarity splinter groups held demonstrations in those cities, dissident sources said. Street fighting in Gdansk lasted several hours. 
In the Philippines, police swung truncheons and frred tear gas to break up crowds marching to the U.S. embassy in Manila after a rally in which union leaders threatened a nationwide strike to press for a higher minimum wage. 
Riot police in South Korea frred tear gas in a battle with about 5,000 striking workers in Masan and nearby Changwon after protesters tried to stage a May Day rally, police said. About 200 workers were ar­rested. 
Police said about 6,600 people were arrested in Seoul when police blocked a rally Sunday 
part government protests that broke out during the official May Day parade in Prague. One protester was arrested as he carried a poster of Gorbac­hev, whose reforms go further than those desired by Czechos­lovakia's leaders. 
An additional 18 were ar­rested during rallies in the city of Brno, said activist Anna Sabatova. 
BBC reporter Misha Glenny said he was punched in the face and held for five hours as he photographed an arrest in Prague. Britain's Foreign Of­fice said it would protest to Czechoslovakia. 
In the Soviet Union, an ac­tivist in the Soviet Republic of Armenia said residents in the capital, Yerevan, defied a ban and held a large, peaceful ral­ly. 
May Day celebrations were banned in the Yerevan and Tbilisi, capital of Soviet Geor­gia, because of recent pro­independence unrest in both cities and the devastating earthquake in Armenia. 
GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPOS TUESDAY, MAY 9th THRO SUNDAY, MAY 14th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS, & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME 
GREYHOUND TRUCK WILL BE BEHIND BOOKSTORE MAY 9th THR(] MAY 14th FROM 1O:OOAM UNTIL 4:30 PM SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDMDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED IO()IJ. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 


The Observer Tuesday, May 2, 1989
SECURITY BEAT
Union 
continuedfrom page 1 
WED., APRIL 26 loss is estimated at $18.00. Hall reported the theft of personal a.m., 4/30. Total damages are un­
6:52 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident 4:25p.m. An employee of Notre property from her unlocked dorm known. 
Kerby in that a union may not be the best solution to the prob­lem of faculty input. "There can be no union," said Gad-el­Hak, "but there should be a greater voice for the senate, so that it has more influence." 
"If it comes to a vote and the union is voted down, that means that the solution is un­acceptable, and there is a bet­ter solution to the problem," said Gad-el-Hak. 
"Perhaps the final answer is in between the union and the present state of the senate," suggested Gad-el-Hak. He said that a group composed like the Faculty Senate, but with the powers of the Academic Coun­cil, might be the best answer. 
Students honored in 1989 Eng. ceremony 
f5Special to the Observer 
The 1989 University of Notre Dame College of Engineering Outstanding Students were named at the college's annual Honors Award Ceremony held April13. 
They are: John Abele, who received the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner Prize; Julie Bernhardt, the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner Prize; Rafael Carreira, the Al­pha Rho Chi Medal from the School of Architecture; Timothy Connors, the Basil R. Myers Award from the depar­tment of electrical and com­puter engineering; Brian Ein­loth, University valedictorian, the James L. Massey Award from the department of electri­cal and computer engineering, the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner Prize, and named General Motors Scholar; Michael Flynn, named a John J. Reilly Scholar in arts and letters and engineering; Henry Harbury, the Laurence F. Stauder Award from the department of electrical and computer engin­eering; Andrew Kraus, named the John J. Reilly Scholar in arts and letters and engineeri­ng. 
Also, Karl Krueger, the Andrew F. Kervick Award for 
Crass of1990 Senior Cfass CJ:rip 
Cancun, Me~co 
will include: hicago's O'Hare Air­port and non-stop, round trip air service to Cancun. 
* 
8 days7 nights accomodations at the Oasis Cancun. 

* 
All taxes, gratuities, and departure tax. 


The Oasis Cancun offers: 
* 
A prime location on 30 acres of Caribbean beach. 

* 
114 mile network of swimming pools (with swim-up bars). 

* 
many other benefits 


Sign-ups with $150 deposit payable to Univ. of N. D are in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, until May 12. 
Hurry and reserve your spot NOW! Any questions? Call John MacQuarrie or Michele Feick. 
reported that some unknown person(s) had removed the rear license plate from his vehicle while parked in the D-2 parking lot sometime between 11 p.m., 4/20 and noon, 4/21. Total loss is esti­mated at $25. 
TIIU., APRIL 27 
7:53a.m. A Notre Dame employee reported vandalism done to a weather recording instrument in the Hesburgh Memorial li­brary on 4/25 around 1 p.m.. Total damages are estimated at $600. 
FRI., APRIL 28 
12:05 p.m. A Holy Cross resident reported the theft of his license plate from his vehicle while parked in the D-6 parking lot sometime after 12:30 a.m.. 
10:30 a.m. A Notre Dame em­ployee reported the theft of a small item from the glass display case on the second floor of the Riley Art building sometime between 6:30 p.m., 4/27 and 7 am, 4/28. Total 
Drawing from the School of Ar­chitecture; Eric Lanciault, the American Institute of Ar­chitects Award, the Ralph Sol­litt Award from the School of Architecture and the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner Prize; James Lynn, the Salter L. Shilts Prize from the department of civil engineering; Anne McCormack, the American So­ciety of Civil Engineers Activ­ity Award; Duncan McRoberts, the Andrew F. Kervick Award for Drawing from the School of Architec­ture; and Steven Morita, the Rambusch Prize in Architec­ture. 
Also, Michael Nolan, named a John J. Reilly Scholar in Arts and Letters in Engineering; Mary O'Neil, the Ray Stuermer Memorial Award for Excel­lence in Design from the School of Architecture; Shawn Patter­son, named a General Motors Scholar; Joye Reno, the Alpha Rho Chi Medal from the School of Architecture; Michael Ringrose, the James A. McCarthy Scholarship from the department of civil engine­ering; Andrew Shearon, the Zahm Prize for Aeronautical Engineering; Richard Skendzel, the Chairman's Award for Advanced Design 
Dame reported the theft of her hang tag decal from her vehicle while parked off campus some­time on 4/27. 
10:40 p.m. An off campus stu­dent reported vandalism done to the front windshield of her vehi­cle while parked in the Flanner Hall parking lot sometime around 10:40 p.m.. Total damages are estimated at $200. 
11:20 p.m. A resident of Lewis Hall reported the theft of her friend's bicycle from the south side of Lewis Hall around 11 p.m. Total loss is estimated at $100. 
11:30 p.m. A Notre Dame stu­dent was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for travel­ing 46 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper road. 
SAT., APRIL 29 
12:40 a.m. Notre Dame Security issued a Notre Dame student a ci­tation for traveling 47 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper road. 
6:33 p.m. A resident of Walsh 
Excellence in Architecture; Timothy Slatter, the Frank Montana Rome Scholarship from the School of Architec­ture; and William Spedding, Leroy D. Graves Academic Im­provement Award in the depar­tment of civil engineering. 
Also, William Sullivan, named a John J. Reilly Scholar in Arts and Letters and Engin­eering; Hartono Sutanto, the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner Prize and the Chemical Engineering Faculty Award; J. Patrick Tedesco, the Gertrud S. Sollitt Award from the School of Ar­chitecture; Jeffrey Terrell, the Nellie Wynn Kervick Award for Architecture; Marta Verhoff, the American Institute of Chemical Engineers Scholar­ship Award; and Jeffrey Zawada, the American In­stitute of Chemists Award. 
TiiTie to celebrate! 
Congratulation'~ You mad<' it to graduation and now it's tinw to prqwn· 
• :.for tlw lutun~. The IBM Personal System/2' Mod,· I:30 2B(J helps you progn•ss 
from t•·rm papers and lab ~··port.s to prP~f'ntutions a.nd spr:•·.urlsheets_ with pizzazz. · ~ 1 h<' PS/2 ~lodcl30 286 has cxcrtmg, spccrally sf'lected 
•> ., · f.,;: ;-~~-: software that is easy to usP.Ioacbl and ready to go. So 
I 1i -" · ... ~..:..__1· I J 1• 
__:___. ''"""'. r·-· 
___ ...-.... ___,.._ P,... ~. ... P·:~~~­
FREET-SHIRT while supplies last 
Buy now and tell us send it to my hometown IBM dealer 
'This offer is hmited to qualified students. faculty and staff who order an IBM PS/2 Modei8530·E21 on or before June 30. 1989. M1crosolt Word is the Academ•c Edition. Prices quoted do not Include sales tax. handling and/or process1ng charges. Check with your institution regarding these charges. Orders are subject to availability. IBM may withdraw the promotion at any lime w1thout written notice. 
IBM Personal Syslemr2 otnd PSr2 are reg1s1ered lraclemarks ollnlernahonal Bus1ness Mact11nes Corporallon M1crosoii1S a reg1s1ered trademark of Mocrosolt CorporatiOn hOC W1ndows E•press IS a trademark ol !he hOC Compuler CorporatiOn 
room sometime between 3 and 3:15p.m. Total losses are estimated at $50. 
3:20p.m. A Notre Dame Security officer reported damage done to a window in the southeast corner of H<~ggar Hall . It is unknown as to the time of the occurrence. Total damages are estimated at $20. 
12:30 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported the theft of her book bag and its contents from a study car­rell on the first floor of the Res­burgh Memorial Library some­time between 11 and 11:30 a.m. Total losses are estimated at $120. 
SUN., APRIL 30 
5:18 a.m. A resident of Walsh Hall reported the theft of her jacket from the coat room of Alumni­Senior Club sometime around 2 
a.m. on 4/27. Total loss is esti­mated at $65.00. 
6:38 a.m. A Notre Dame Security officer reported vandalism done with spraypaint to a tower just north of the ROTC building sometime between 4/29 and 4:30 
SUB'S REFRIGERATOR RETURN/SALE 
DATE: Friday, May 5th 
TIME: 2:30 PM-5:30 PM 
PLACE: Stephan Center 
NEED TO BRING: Refrigerator that is clean and defrosted to receive initial deposit OR money to buy your refrigerator; $25 for small and $40 for large. (We keep your deposit). 
SEE YOU THERE! 
take udvantagc of this inercdihlt• offf'r 
and stop in and St'l' us today. Burry! 
Offcrcxpircs]unc30,1989. 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
Office of University Computing Computing Center Room 25 ---­
= --~';'§:
239-7477 
3:30 p.m. A resident of Ca­vanaugh Hall reported the theft of his compact disc player from his unlocked dorm room sometime between 9 and 12 p.m. on 4/29. Total loss is estimated at $250. 
9:11 p.m. A Notre Dame Security officer reported the break-in to several vehicles in the D-2 lot in which car stereos were removed or gas was syphoned sometime between 8:15 and 9:15p.m.. Total losses are unknown at this time. 
MON., MAY 1 
3:48a.m. ANotre Dame employee reported the vandalism done to a piece of plaster sculpture in the foyer of Riley School of Art some­time between around 11 p.m., 4/29.Total damages are estimated at$100. 
6:45a.m. A Notre Dame Security Officer reported the vandalism done to a vehicle parked in the D-1 lot sometime around 11:16 p.m. on 4/30. Total damages are un­known. 

--------~-------------­
Viewpoint
Tuesday, May 2, 1989 page 5 

•· P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... SI)annon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager .•••.•.•.•.•• Mark Derwent Photo Editor ........ -................ Eric Bailey OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca Controller ............................ Anne Undner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notr!!_Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pohc•es of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to ail members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged_ · 
EDITORIAL 
Students' voices ring out in China 
The protests by more than 150,000 university stu­dents in Beijing, China, have finally drawn the atten­tion of Chinese government officials, who Saturday offered to formally discuss the demonstrators' demands for democracy and greater freedom. 
Adamant about democratic reform, freedom of the press, increased education funding and an end to gov­ernment corruption, the students refused the offer of dialogue. 
To its credit, the Chinese government has permitted the demonstrations to continue and on Saturday generously authorized official media to report the protests, after ignoring the demonstrations for a week. 
But now that China's officials have agreed to hear them out, the students should voice their complaints in formal dialogue. It may be constructive and even produce change. 
The demonstrations have so far been peaceful and well-organized, but the large gathering of angry stu­dents is getting growing support from workers. No doubt Chinese officials are worried the crowd may turn violent. 
Student organizers could allay these fears by sitting down to talk with government officials. Rational dis­cussion of the students' concerns could lead to political and economic progress, perhaps even dismantle the nation's communist system. 
The impact of even limited democracy in China would be enormous, considering more than one billion people live there, next to the world's largest commu­nist power--the Soviet Union. 
One can only guess at the effect a democratic China would have on its communist neighbor. Perhaps one day both nations will accept democracy and make the world's people a unified plurality. 
Chinese students are fighting for rights most stu­dents in the United States take for granted. The demonstrators obviously feel democracy is worth fighting for, maybe enough to die for it. The marchers have made their point in numbers, but they should use the opportunity to put it on paper. 
DOONESBURY 
LETTERS 
Those in need should be helped, not condemned 
Dear Editor: tently applied this to all who fertility cycle and scientific 
I write this letter in response sin. measurements of temperature to a view expressed by Patrick A good example of this may to determine when pregnancy Mullane on April 27th which is be found in our own communi-is most likely to occur. The a misconception many Cat-ty. The Women's Care Center method is 98% effective, better holies here appear to hold. Mr. on St. Louis Street is operated than some forms of the Pill. Mullane suggests that because by Notre Dame and Saint While some people may con­the Catholic Church forbids Mary's volunteers who help demn women who become birth control, this drives Cath-women with unexpected preg-pregnant out of wedlock, Cat­olic women to have abortions nancies to choose life for their holies in general do not. This is rather than be labeled a "sin-children. They provide real a dangerous misconception ner." support: clothing, medical aid, which causes women to con-
First of all, what does he free pregnancy tests, and coun-sider abortion. If the truth is mean when he says "the Cath-seling. Clearly, these women revealed, that Catholics want olic Church?" The Pope? Our are not being labeled as "sin-to help those in need, this will bishop? A priest friend? Other ners.'' Instead, they are being do more to end abortion than Catholics? The Vatican has helped when they need it most. getting a message from the never labeled people as "sin-Secondly, Catholics do have Vatican that artificial birth ners," rather we are instructed a birth control option open to control methods are "per­what is sinful. People are not them: Natural Family Plan-mitted." evil because they sin, but be-ning. This is not the old cause the things they do are "rhythm method" you may David M. Condron evil. This is Christ's teaching have been taught. It involves Cavanaugh Hall and Catholics have consis-an understanding of the natural April 27, 1989 
Tuition increase could exclude many from NO 
Dear Editor: 
When my mother called the other night, she asked me if I knew that the university is raising our tuition again. I said "Yes, someone I know just recently wrote a letter to The Observer objecting to the in­crease" (The Observer, April 5). 
Later that night, my mind kept coming back to the subject of the tuition increase. Why didn't the administration reply to the student's letter? Why weren't his questions an­swered? Is it fair for the Uni­
· versity to raise our already enormous tuition further? I have come to the conclusion that raising our tuition will not only hurt the students but it will also eventually hurt the Uni­versity. We will reach the point where no one can afford to at­tend this school. Present stu­dents are already being forced to leave because they can't pay, and prospective students are choosing less expensive and often lesser-acclaimed schools simply because of the price. This situation deprives a large number of students from outstanding educational and social opportunities as well as depriving the University of its most valuable resource, namely top quality students. I state that many students won't be able to afford tuition. Who are these people? The list· 
is extensive. To begin with, to pay a little more. Is that many middle class students what they want? What hap­don't qualify for scholarships. pened to "cultural diversity?" Their families already Does Notre Dame only wantthe sacrifice so that they can rich culturally diverse? Will receive a superior education at the University of Notre Dame one of the best universities in become a homogeneous society the country. Many of these that excludes scholars if they young adults help finance at can't afford to be one of the least part of their tuition with elite? their summer earnings, which Maybe the increase can be must also stretch to pay for any justified. Mter all, we've got extra expenses for the year like the National Championship SYRs and formals. (Now we football team. Why shouldn't know why they tightened the al-we charge more to become part cobol policy and took away of the spirit and tradition that some SYRs--so we can pay began with Knute Rockne? But more of our summer salaries Knute Rockne wasn't rich. for tuition.) These students What would he think of this? cannot, in good conscience, ask Would he think it's just? their families to sacrifice any We also have to increase the more. professors' salaries, the money 
The increase also affects for research grants, and the minorities and poorer students. number of books in the Res­One might simply believe that burgh Library (it's only this added expense will be cov-seventy-fourth on the list). But ered by their scholarships. On what good will these professors the surface, this assumption is and books do if no one can af­correct, but with further anal-ford to take advantage of these ysis, one begins to realize that opportunities? for every increase in one I don't know what more we scholarsip, the money supply can do if the administration for scholarships is diminished won't listen to our pleas. I love and fewer people can receive this school, and I just want it those benefits. If the university to show that it loves me back adds to this by raising tuition, so that I can continue my edu­many more young adults will cation and eventually become not be able to afford to attend an alumna of the great Univer-Notre Dame. sity of Notre Dame. 
Who's left now? All this Catherine Kane school will have is the more af-Siegfried Hall fluent students who can afford April 25, 1989 
Presence of condoms should be applauded 
Dear Editor: chase them is up to the individ-should also boycott every bar, 
The presence of condoms in ual. drug store, and convenience a local bar should be ap: In Les Syren's letter of April store that sells or distributes plauded, not condemned. Con-28, he equated condom dis-condoms. I imagine he'd have doms prevent numerous com-pensers with needle dispensers a tough time getting his municable diseases, as well as for drug addicts and free bul-prescriptions filled. protecting against the contrac-lets for murderers. This state­tion of AIDS. The need for con-ment defies logic. He won't go A. Veritasi dom use has never -been to The Commons because they Off-Campus greater, and the option to pur-sell condoms. Therefore, he April 29, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

HO/AJ COUWA 51n7N6 f'RE;Sif)eNT !3«.01rf!3 9JIRJ<el/3VANT THAT 90UTOF IOAMEI<IcANSHAV8 
~ FOR6077l?N AU, FWR. OF HIS NAMf33'2 FOR 6t0f?.Ge 8U5H, IT'S AN 
OW PR.08UM ... 
/ 
FOR YeARS, He HAS RUU5W 7V Pff/N& HIMSC-lF, 7D GIVe HI? POUT/CAL. P/3RSONA ANY 
SHAP!3 OR 51JBSTANCe ?HAT MIGHT OFFeN[) ... 
!WAYH& IS PAYING 7HE3 PRice.. 
TH& PR&Sil?eNTHAS8CCOirf& 7H& PHAN7VM OF 7H/3/A/13ST/A/lNG, FlOATING AROUNfJAPJHIT&fWst 7HAT 15 NOW B5TTE:R. KNOWN FOR ITS PUPPit$ 7HAN 175 MASTER. I 
~~~!~ 
ROIANP? P8T/3R 
Hf5/?E!IS7H~ 
ANYHOP/3 FOR... UH... UH... 
/ MR.8U5H'? OR. TH& / PUPP/85? 
'No matter how bad things get you got to go on living, even if it kills you.' 
Sholom Aleichem 

NO's noted Glee Club gets vocal 
Time and commitment are instrumental to these performers 
LAURA MATTHIAS 
accent writer 
rom JPW Weekend to con­F certs in Europe, the Notre Dame Glee Club has made their voice heard. The club is comprised of all Notre Dame men, and is directed by Carl Starn, who is in his eighth year with the club. 
When asked about the tal­ent of the group, Starn responded that every year he fears the loss of the senior voices from the club, but every year he finds himself wrong. "I didn't think it was possible," Starn said, "but it's gotten better every year." 
Starn demands a lot of dedication in return for his confidence in the voices of his 65-member Glee Club. For one credit and a tuxedo, Glee Club members rehearse five hours every week, and per­form a large number of con­certs at Notre Dame and on the road. About five of the campus performances and most of the road perfor­mances are formal and com­mand black ties. In addition, there are between 15 and 30 informal concerts during the year for clubs, university or­ganizations, and just for fun. 
Touring makes up the larg­est time commitment for members of the Glee Club. This year Starn and his club 

Stepan Center. 
were away for a record 31 days and nights, though "mostly during vacation time." Over spring break the club went to six cities, includ­ing Jackson, Miss., Memphis, Tenn., and St. Louis, MO. While touring, the members 
turn on the charm and actu­ally become "very classy," according to Starn. The men represent the university, and obviously make a fine impres-
Positively Irish 
People make Ireland memorable, despite minor inconveniences 
I
n my last article from Ireland, I made some com­ments that received mixed reactions. Many people said that the tone of my article was too negative. Upon reading it over, it became clear to me how that impres­sion could have been evoked. Well, I feel it essential to cor­rect all false impressions. 
All the facts of the previous article still remain the same. My attitude, however, has changed drastically. 
The most crucial and absolutely best part of the Irish culture is, of course, the people. 
Yes, I still have to walk a mile to school. What I didn't mention previously was the scenery I get to see everyday: beautiful pastures with horses, ancient castles, and, if the timing is right, a glorious sunset. 
Yes, I am still occasionally cold. But what I didn't dis­cover was if given enough time, the cold is hardly noticed. It merely becomes a way of life. 
I've discovered that long, hot baths are relaxing. 
Overseas Column: Katie Moore 
Phones are an impersonal mode of communication. It is much better to take an enjoy­able walk and visit friends in person. 
I've also discovered that homework isn't as occasional as I had once thought or hoped. But opportunities for creative genious are available with almost every assign­ment. 
The most crucial and ab­solutely best part of the Irish culture is, of course, the people. There is no genuine kindness in the world like that of the Irish. My room­mate, Tracey Pinter, and I hitchhiked to Galway one weekend. Every person who gave us a lift had a piece of advice to offer and we were always wished the best of luck. The last person who picked us up insisted that we stay in his house for the en­tire weekend and we were even treated to free meals in the restaurant he owns. This is a perfect example of the people-loving Irish. 
sion as reputable, clean-cut song, the standard of perfor­young men, because they are mance is still high and de­always invited back. manding. The talent of the 
club has been noticed nation­
The Glee Club has quite an ally; most recently, at the extended repertoire as a Volunteer Leaders Congress choral group, with a wide dinner for the United Way in scope of religious, twentieth Chicago, where the club sang century, Irish, and traditional for 3,000 guests. One of the music. Although the glee club club's most important tours is traditionally noted for its will be their three-week tour rendition of the alma mater of Western Europe next year. and the Notre Dame fight This tour requires the best voices and the most rigorous practice, as it only takes place every third summer. 
Although Glee Club is con­sidered to be an extracur­ricular activity, the members take their music very serious­ly, as one music major, Rob Meffe, explained. He agrees that "club" is considered to be a "good time singing," but also insists that "we are rep­resentative of Notre Dame." As a serious musician, Meffe also sings in the chorale, writes his own music (remember "Simon"?), and pursues choral conducting as his concentration. He is one of Starn's "crazies," the guys who dedicate their time to two choruses, which demand both long rehearsals and yearly tours. 
Sophomore Barry McFar­lande said that, despite the time commitment, he loves Glee Club, and tours with the club yearly. He explained that the members of the club are "really close because of the time we spend together." They even have their own SYR and formal. 
For those students who have yet to hear the Glee Club perform, their next con­cert is May 20th at Stepan Center. The time and talent of the club, and their direc­tor, will make for very enjoy­able evening. 

MLB 
I've made friends here that rewarding experience in my I have no doubt will be life. There is nothing here friends for life. It is that I could ever consider impossible to have anything negative. Ireland would not else in an Irish friend. be the same without the long, 
I have never had such a peaceful walks and the clean, brisk breeze. I have only one 
month left and I am teary­
eyed already. My memories will never fade and I will al­. ways look back with complete 
joy in my heart. 
Tuesday, May 2, 1989 The Observer page 7 
his twin brother carried on the Murphy brought an aggres­who drafted him in the 11th games. His average is still 23 Joliet Catholic tradition and the sive style to the team upon his round last June. points under last year's pace. Pesavento tradition. He was arrival, and it emphasized the "If Coach Murphy weren't "I'm just seeing the ball
Prospect 
continued from page 12 
such a great competitor, I knew talents of Pesavento. Mter bat­here, I think I would have gone really well right now," said 
That's something you develop when you come from a family like the Pesaventos. Pat and his twin brother were the last of five Pesavento children to star in the traditionally pow­erful Joliet Catholic athletic de­partment. He was one of three Pesavento brothers to quarter­back the high school football team. Dan Pesavento led the Hilltoppers to one of four con­secutive state football titles before lettering in baseball for four years at the College of St. Francis. Mike Pesavento earned four letters at North Carolina State and entered the Los Angeles Dodgers organiza­tion. 
"Joliet Catholic is like a Notre Dame at the high school level with a lot of tradition in athletics," said Jack Schimanski, Pesavento's high school baseball coach. "He and there was a great future for him in baseball." 
It didn't take long for Notre Dame baseball coach Pat Murphy to realize Pesavento's competitive nature. 
"He said it to me the first day, 'Coach, I'm just sick of losing,' " recalled Murphy, in reference to their first meeting after Murphy took the job in 1987. "He definitely stood out, just the way he handled himself on an athletic field. His com­petitive nature stood out very easily. He was willing to win and tired of losing." 
Pesavento had to endure a lot of losing before Murphy replaced Larry Gallo as coach. While the starting shortstop certainly was producing for the Irish, batting .366 his first year and .339 the second, Notre Dame only managed a com­bined record of 37-57. 
ting in the number-two spot un­der Gallo, he became Notre Dame's leadoff batter. 
Pesavento responded to his new role by setting school records for walks (46), stolen bases (38) and runs (81) in a season. He has 41 walks, 26 stolen bases and 58 runs so far this season, with a .488 on-base percentage. 
"My first two years here, I stole some bases, but I wasn't given the green light like I am now," said Pesavento. "We didn't run a lot. I thought we should have used our speed more. We were just sitting around waiting for things to happen." 
Murphy's aggressive style produced a 39-22 record last season. Those results contrib­uted to Pesavento's decision to turn down a professional offer from the Toronto Blue Jays, (to the pros) for sure," said Pesavento, who also was drafted by the Boston Red Sox in June 1987. "It's just that the style of baseball we play now is so much more fun. 
"I was nine hours short (of graduation). That was someth­ing I really came here to do. I thought there was no reason I wouldn't get drafted higher if I'd just had a consistent year." 
For a while, it looked like he may not have a season compa­rable to his last two. Pesavento started the year 0-for-Texas, going hitless in Notre Dame's season-opening five-game tour of the Lone Star State. Only a couple of weeks ago, his average was down at .304. 
Pesavento has made a com­plete recovery since then, in­creasing his average to .366, batting 9-of-13 last weekend to extend his hitting streak to 10 Pesavento. "I'm hitting the ball to the left side of the field between short and third. If I'm hitting the ball there, I'm hit­ting well. I'm starting to bunt well too." 
It's that kind of determina­tion to improve that has Murphy liking Pesavento's chances in the pros. 
"He's an underrated (prospect)," said Murphy. "He's a guy who will make the adjustments at every level. He may never be the guy who hits .350 in the minors, but who makes all the plays, bats .270 
every  year  and  is  a  good  
baserunner.  He's  a  clutch  
player."  

Notre Dame may have lost a quarterback in Pat Pesavento, but Irish fans couldn't be hap­pier with the results. 
rhe Observer accepts classifieds every business day lrom 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. al the Notre Dame offtce, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 until 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All claSsifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES ] 
TYPING AVAILABLE 2B7-4082 
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for 
CASH !I Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash 
or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. 
Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 
233-2342 
RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­vlcs anytime at 299-0063. 
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS VOCATION COUNSELING for the ONE­YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and other ministry opportunities. Contact FR. JOHN CONLEY. CSC BOX 541 NOTRE DAME 239-6385 
TYPING-1st drafts provided. 233-1485. 2 blks. from campus. 
\ LOST/FOUND ) 
LOT: Sr. Frml. Rt Side of Ballrm 35mm Kodak, contains all our pix Please Call John at 271-0129 
LOST ON NORTH OUAD:AN AEROBIE. IT GOT STUCK IN THE TREE AND OVERNIGHT THE WIND BLEW IT DOWN. IF YOU FOUN IT. PLEASE CALL TONY AT 1244. IT WA BOR­ROWED. 
FOUND: 2 GOLD BRACELETS AT THE JACC. CALL 3878 TO DESCRIBE AND CLAIM. 
LOST: Wallet in Cushing Aud. on Mon 4r.14 \1:OOam. PLEASE call 2702 if you have it-1 need my ID's and key! 
Found: 7 in. gold bracelet found ouside Zahm"s front lawn at 1 1 :30 PM on 4r.16; if it"s yours, call x3363 
Purple and black pullover jacket lost in LaFortune computer area. Please help out a bummed out duda & return it to Mark at x3678. 
LOST...Help a blind woman see again I lost my blue framed glasses in a blue case Fri nile I Please call Tracy X31 99 
FOUND: brown leather jacket in sout dining hall·lo claim call x3528 with description. 
LOST AFTER THE MCATSIN 303 CUs­HING, WESTBEND TIMER. PLEAS! CALL GUY AT 213-4ale. 
FOUND: AT BOOKSTORE ON FRIDAY. ONE BASKETBALL JERSEY. CALL J.C. AT 1001 TO IDENTIFY 
FOR RENT 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 
217-GII, 113-1111. 
MALl! GRADUATI!S I'UIIINIIHID ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, 1'1111001. I MINI. N. CAMPUS. 272· 0111. 
Moving to NYC? Lg 1 bdrm. apt. tor rent Aug. 1. Good midtown lac. ~. rJW & lg closets. Per· feet for share. Call Betsy or Jackie. (21 2) 582-4260. 
SUB-LEASING TURTLE CREEK STUDIO APT FOR SUMMER PRICE NEGOTIABLE CALL 272·0389 
2 BEDROOM HOUSE:on ND Ave a/ao FURNISHED ROOMS near ND:$120 mo 272-6306 
2 HOUSES FOR RENT 89-90 SCHOOL YEAR. SAFE NEIGHBORHOODS. FOR MORE INFO, CAU CHUCK GLORE 232-1776. 
Sub-Leasing 2 Bdrm Apt for Summer At Turtle Creek Call PauH<en 272-3694 
LIVE OFF CAMPUS 2 bedroom fur­nished home for 1989-9 Safe & con­venient area. Next to other NO rentals. Private parking, large yard, basket ball court. Call Bruce: 288-5653 or 234-3831 
MOVE OFF CAMPUS 4 bedroom fur­nished home for 1989-9 Safe & con­venient area. Next lo other NO rentals. Private parking, large yard, basket ball court. Call Bruce 288-5653 or 234-3831 
Need rooms for grad. wkend? Three rms. available in house close to campus. Call Tom 277-6380. 
TURTLE CR. APT FOR SUBLEASE OVER Summer Mo. FURNISHED CALL MATT 3255 
WANTED 
RIDE TO FLORIDA 
Help. Help. Help. We need a ride home after exams on Friday or Saturday. Going to Foil Lauderdale, Orlando, or Daytona. II you can help, please call Dave at 283­3284. 
AGENTS NEEDEDI $350.00 PER DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1­315-733-6063 EXTENSION P-2382. 
ROOMMATE WANTED FOR SUM­MERSCHOOL ALREADY HAVE TURT. CREEK LEASE CALL XI 169 FOR INFO 
Need Ride to DC AREA &22, Mary 374 
WANTED:10 SPEED BIKE.272·6306 
. Rider needed to Richmond, Virginia on May 10,1 1 ,art 2th. Call Tim at 283-2091. 
FOR SALE 
LOFT·$45 GREY CARPET,LIKE NEW,8'x10'..$80 STEREO CABINET-$10 4 DRAWER CHEST-$15 
BLACIWIHITE RECLINER-$25 X3201 
For Sltla: 11180 Mazdl GLC, IIBK new tlret-MUST SELL $500 or beat otter. C11l Lou 289-4315 
Wall-to-wall carpet (!Ita PW,PE, Knott, or Sieg double) and loll FOR SALE ..... MELISSA X4341 837 PE 
72 VW Van. Includes sink, refrlg., and pop top. Great for camping & tailgatera. 289·0762 
2 FISHER 3Way speakers good condl· tlon Pete X401 8 
FOR SALE: VOLVO STATIONWAGON, '79 265Gl, 4·SPD WOD,LEATHER IN· T.,NEW EXHAUST & TIRES,RALLY PKG.,EXTRAS 80K MILES .... MICHAEL 
~88·4300 
LOT FOR SALE: Yogi Bear-Plymouth, IN. See all Notre Dame Games, Camping at Ita belli Join Coast to Coast. 219-522­3821 
LARGE REFRIGERATOR JOHNX2193 
BLUE CARPET·GOOD COND.-$30 STURDY LOFT·GOOD COND.-$20 CALL X4188 
BIG DISCOUNTS ON IBM PRODUCTS NO Computer Store 239-7477 
LOFT, CARPET, SOFA FOR SALE. DOUG 2243 
FOR SALE: small fridge, bookcase, lg. dresser x31 38 eves. 
FOR SALE: DELUXE LOFT FOR MORE INFO X1532 (ROB-SRIAN) 
TICKETS 
$$$ GRAD TIX WANTED $$$ Call Michelle at 3196 
i·~;;;;d··5·9;~d~~ii~~·;;~:;;;;ii·:r~;;;···~155· 
or 3157 
ATTN SRSI Need 3 grad tix for my grandparents coming from SEATTLE! Will pay $$$-Call Michelle X3820 
I NEED GRAD TIXI GRANDPARENTS COMIN FROM PUERTO RICO, 1-3 NEEDEDI!!!!II CALL FRED 272-4474 
NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS 277­0593 
wii,· ;;~~··;~;·ii;~d:··ii~k~;~:·~~ii"j~~···~;:;;:· 
7496 
HELP!II I nead graduation tickets and have extra $$$. Want to trade? Call x3613 and leave a message. 
PERSONALS 
hlag 
SUMMER JOBS ALLLANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, JANET HEROLD YOU ARE THE SUNSHINE OF OUR DAY. 
MALE TO SHARE TOWNHOUSE NEAR NO. CALL TYLER 277-4831 OR 271· 9380 
ATTENTION: ANYONE LIVING IN NYC AREA NEED THINGS SHIPPED HOME? CAU JOHN AT 271-8704 OR 
283-1789 (AFTER I O:OOPM) 
HOPING TO ADOPT We're a happily married, financially HCUre couple with a beautiful home and Iota of love to share with a much­wanted blby. If you are pregnant and conaldarlng adoption, pfeass call us. Expanaaa paid. Confidential, legal. PI-call Deborah and David collect day or night at 312-935-4088. 
The reign of the Meatuses is not of this world ... 
I NEED A RIDE HOME TO FLORIDA FOR THE SUMMER. I CAN LEAVE FRIDAY 5112 AND WILL SHARE NOR­MAL EXPENSES. CALL PAUL AT 289­0662 OR 283-35061 
GO HOMEI NEED A VEHICLE? GREAT VAN AND TRUCK PRICES·ONE WAYS STILL AVAIL. CALL X1143 FOR INFO. 
SUMMER APARTMENT IN TURTLE CREEK NEEDED. ONE ROOMMATE OR TWO SUBLETTERS. CALL 284­4387 STACY OR JAN ENE AFTER 8 PM. 
CHAMPIONS Ia coming aoon to the NO Bookatore. Don't leave for home without Ill 
HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for no more than $180 with AIRHITCH (TM), as reported In Consumer Reports, NY Times, Let's Go, and national network morning shows. For details, call 212· 864-2000 or write: AIRHITCH(TM), 2901 Broadway, Suite 1000, NY, NY 10025. 
NO CLUB OF BUFFALO BAGGAGE TRUCK Loading: Fri May 12 from 2-5pm at Stepan. Questions call Tom X3285 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
ANNE·MARIE, Thanks for the great time at Sr. Fonnal. Good luck with finals! 
CHUCK 
-ATTENTION­ANYONE WANTING TO TRANSPORT ITEMS HOME ON THE NORTHWEST BAGGAGE TRUCK DROP BY RM 358 ALUMNI TO GET FORMS LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLE QUESTION: CALL1222 RAY 1132 JOHN 
FIRST TIME AT SAINT MARY'S 
ALAN SAVE & THE MCNEILS FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1989 HAGGAR TERRACE FREE FOOD 5:30-7:30 SPONSORED BY SMC CLASS OF '92. All ARE WELCOME. 
Janet, Happy Birthday to one of The Big Oh's all-time greats. God bless and thanks tor everything. 
Love, ME 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER has gilts for MOTHER's DAY, May 14. Stop in soon for the best se lee!ion in baskets, tins, and other collect-ables. WE SHIP PACKAGES UPS DAIL VI LET THE COUNTRY HARVESTER help you get those heavy boxes home NOWIII 239­6714 La Fortune Basement 
NORM B. Did you get the philo class you wanted? Some of those behind you didn't! NEXT TIME DON'T CUT! 
AFTER HOURS AFTER HOURS AFTER HOURS 
AFTER HOURS After Hours at Murphy's May 3 and 4. Come see Fletch pop his g-stringl 
Robin, Mere words cannot describe my feelings for you. Your One And Only 
ATTENTION ALL READERS OF THE APRIL 26 ARTICLE CONCERNING COED HOUSING Pat lannigan's opinion was unexcusably fraudulated by myseH, Mike Rhattigan. I humbly retract my veh­memous misrepresentation and anxiously solicit absolution of my malevolant comportment. 
'"And hey, let's not forget John Morton and Andrew Gaze, without whom Seton Hall wouldn't even have qualijied for the tourney.'" ............................................... . 
DON'T FORGET TO WISH KIM KOS· LOWSKI A HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KIM HAPPY BIRTHDAY KIM HAPPY BIRTHDAY KIM HAPPY BIRTHDAY KIM THE SAGA CONTINUES·--"THE STANKIE, THEPERVERTED, & THE CONTAMINATED"Starring:6. EricKIDD gets no PLAY 
Tony "SHABANIN TOO HARD" Smith-­You can fling tt out and slap it on a platter for us ANYTIMEII! 
SKYDIVING LAST CHANCE TO TRY CALL DEAN 287-3024 
PITTSBURGH CLUB 
PITT CLUB The Pittsburgh Club Is running a lug­gage Truck at the end of the year. Dstalls In a letter coming this waek questions call Kevin 3322 
or Steve 1177 PITT CLUB 
NEED RIDE TO SOUTH FLORIDA 
Help. Help. Help. I need a ride to Fort Lauderdale afler exam week. Call Will at 283-2089 ij you have space. 
To the OverT. and the Over H. lovers Even wtthout the Rorence Motel this weekend was the joint. .. Word to Topper, and don't forget to 
WORK ITI Love, Blondie and the D.P. Express 
MELISSA CASPER! Happy 21st! We know it's late, but we wanted to give you time to get over your hangover. LOVE, YOUR 2-SOUTH PALS. 
PAUL STEPHAN: I want your body. 
THERE IS NO JUSnCEIIIIII 
Heh NIKIE NORRIS! Heh lckle we heard you're one red hot babe! That's­ltchln' man! Sorr I missed your birthday but I would not have gotten you anything anyway I'll miss you next year and hope fully you won't cause too much trouble In California. 
PHIL KRAKER: Life has done you some serious Injustice, but don't worry there are brighter days on the horizon, love ya, Molly 
CHRIS "HAPPY" J Is '1. reglng sex maniac! Not only does he wear bright red spaedos and bikini undar· wear, but he eaduces young, un­suspected babes In his car by asking: "I wonder what's back here (In the cor· nar of this dark parking lot)?" Women of NO beware! 
Heh LIZ SWEENEY! I hope you're feeling better honey. Good luck on finals and don't forget to taka all your drugs. 
1 1 more from the pseudo-roomies 1 t.Come out Alyssa, don't let him watt tO.This is how much of a dork I am 9.So caught up in you, Dillon boy 8.She wasn't too aggressive, at least all the times I mashed with her 7.But he spits when he talks! 6.1've been degroupified-now l"m someone's wile I 5. You can never be too horizontal 4.Don't worry, I don't like him anymore-he's got no personality 3.1'm not the adu~rous typa 2.Did you ever do this with Fran? 1 .Be good or be good at tt!l Kait & Nan-we love you guys· Get psyched-next year's gonna be SCARY! -love, George & Lyss 
NOVICE CREW TEAMIIIII You made Notre Dame and me very proud to be a part of this team. Thanks for helping me learn how to coach ...l hope you had some fun along with the work ...! didlllll Love, Anita. 
Rita, Thanks for the couch. Quit calling my boyfriend an A--hole. love, Shakey 
DR, Thanks for putting the "special" back in front of the K. l"ve missed you! 
"ALL I WANT IS YOU" 
Love, 
Lola 
•••• MARIA MICALE ••••• HAPPY 21ST B-DAY!!! DON'T DENY YOUR TRUE FEELINGS NOW THAT YOURE A REAL WOMAN. MAYBE YOU'LL FINP.,LLY GET A DOMER. TAZ 
JACINTO "FURIOUS" DAVIS, Remem· ber...to dangle is to trip and fall. 
SUE E I'VE SEEN YOU WALKING TOWARDS FLANNER-AND YOU ARE POETRY IN MOnON-IS THE PERSON YOU ARE GOING TO SEE-"THAT SPE· CIAL SOMEONE"???? IF NOT­PLEASE GIVE ME A CHANCE! -AN AVID ADMIRER 
W Club W'l!xcptns:Adrienne"PP"UIIy Lilia"LipLicker"Fernandez,Jennie "TheBreeder"Bruening,Amy"PiainJane" Christensen,Chenoa"ShoveMe.."Topash Glo"Good2Go"Wells JK Get out of the hallway!Thanx 4 a decent yrl Luv,Rebecca (Ms Vulgarity) 
Dsar El, I hope you have a great 22nd birthday! 
Love, Kate 
To Kate (Mediate) Fenner,Linda (Snort For Us)Enrlght,Patrlcla(lets Go To A Perk)Ferry,Jimmy(You OWe Me $5) Grecco, John(Noone Trusts Me) McMahon, Mike (108 Combined?) Slat· tery,Crlag(Your Stho Sthexy) Spann, Brlan("Hey..•")Wood, The Farley(Lets Go To The Docks, No The Fletd­DOCK5-AELDI)Women,Any Stool Plgeons,And Sometime Tues. Nlghters Its Been A lot Of Fun-l'll Miss You See You Next Yearllove,Lizard(l Was Drunk)Ryan P.S. Mike (Goodie ­Two) Shewey Mike (Simplyakl) Sefransky too. 
Prayer to the Holy Spirit Holy Spirit, You who make me see everything and who show me the way to· reach my ideal. You who give me the divine gift to forgive and forg thwrongs that are done to me and yo who are in all t~e. instances in my life with me . In this short dialo I want to thank you for everything and confirm once more thai I never want to be separated from you, no matter how great the material desires may be. I want to be with You and my loved ones in Your perpetual glory Amen. Thank you for your love toward me and my loved ones. 
Summer jobt-Camp Wlnneblgo boys camp In Maine looking for dynamic caring counselor Instructors. Can you teach any of the following-tennis, swimming (ALS or WSI), aoccer, basaball, blsketball, waterskiing, salting, canoeing., camping akllls, drema, redlo, archery, or can you play plano or do offlcs work. Age 19¢. Transportation provided. &17-lY17. Call Phil Lilienthal 800-252-1705 or write 1606 Washington PI8Z8, Reaton, VA 22090. 
HEY DUDES & DUDETTES 
THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER IS THIS FRIDAY, MAY 5. GET YOUR GOODBYE CLASSIAEDS IN EARLY. DEADLINE FOR FRIDAY'S PAPER IS 3 PM THURSDAY. TRY TO GET IN EARLIER THAN THAT. 
PARROT HEADS FOREVER 
H.-SAT. NrrE: even though you don't remember, It was fentastlclluv, your date with tha green polke-dot dreaa. 
Attention: Nancy Kelly Clcorelll is oficially legal ­please wish her a happy 21&1111 
~ -­
Sports 
continued from page 12 
The Oakland A's, winner of 104 regular-season games and beneficiary of one of the most potent batting lineups in the past decade, were picked by many so-called experts to sweep the Dodgers in the World Series. 
Idealistic prognosticators granted the Dodgers a fifth game because, well, sluggers Jose Canseco and ~ark ~cGwire were due to have an off-day sooner or later. 
Still, the Dodgers won the World Series in five games thanks to a few guys named Hatcher, Hershiser and Gib­son, only to find themselves picked no higher than third or 
Tennis 
continued from page 12 
partners. 
Notre Dame made great strides this season in the quest to gain national prominence in women's tennis. Gelfman lauded the freshman on the squad, citing the incredible im­porvement they made over the fourth in most baseball annuals prior to this season. 
Notre Dame, because it lacked a legitimate Heisman candidate, found itself in the unlikely position of underdog heading into football games against ~iami, USC and West Virginia last fall. 
Although the Irish were highly ranked in both polls, the national papers were inun­dated with doubters. Quarter­backs and Heisman contenders Steve Walsh, Rodney Peete and ~ajor Harris were built up to be invincible, while Notre Dame's own Tony Rice out­played all but Walsh in head­to-head matchups. 
But nobody came through in the clutch like defensive end Frank Starns. The fifth-year senior and converted fullback made a name for himself in the big games, something which no doubt made him more attrac­tive to NFL scouts. 
Remember the NCAA tourn­ament? Everybody knew that Arizona, Duke, Oklahoma, Georgetown or Illinois would run away from the field. They had proven themselves over the course of a 30-game schedule and certainly would continue their dominance in the tournament. 
So how did ~ichigan and Seton Hall find their way into the championship game? 
Granted, Seton Hall was a Top-20 mainstay throughout the regular season, but its well of tournament experience was disturbingly dry. Perhaps the 
ATTENTION MARKETING MAJORS 
Wanted Campus Representatives for Fortune 500 company. Put your intellectual knowledge to PRACTICAL use. 
CALL 234-4055 ...Ask for Bill 
Pirates simply found them­selves in the right place at the right time, at a time when the Big East was not quite so beast­ly? 
As for ~ichigan, the Wol­verines had a reputation for building up expectations during the regular season, only to fall apart at tournament time. Besides, with Bill Frieder packed off to the land of fun and sun, ~ichigan didn't stand Danny Ferry and Stacey King. ~ake way for the Glen Rice and Rumeal Robinson show. 
a  chance  against  its  Battle­ 
tested opponents.  
~ove  over  Sean  Elliot,  


This surprising year cul­minated on Sunday with the Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment final. While everyone was focusing on Adworks through­out the tournament, ~alicious Prostitution emerged from the shadows to steal the title. Tony Rice got the headlines, 
but  Joe  Scott  got  the  ~VP  
award.  
Next  year,  the  outcome  

might very well be different. 
Happy Birthday 
Hist~ry 
Guy! 
Love, Dena, Kathy, & Chris 

year. 
"The girls know what they have to do and how hard they are going to have to work next year," said Gelfman of the five freshman who, when healthy, 
(jraduate Student Union 
composed the bulk of the Irish roster. 
While the Irish will not know until later this week if their season is over, they can 
:Year f£nd Socia{ 
already look to next year when they will add at least seven na­tionally ranked teams to an in­creasingly difficult schedule. In addition, Notre Dame ex­pects to receive letters of intent from some of the best high school players in the country. 
Friday & Saturday Nights 
LIIVIE fljiLU~S ~"'to 112~13! 
Elizabeth Van Camp 
MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY 9-12 
ON PIANO, KEYBOARDS & VOCALS ENJOY THIS INCREDIBLE PERFORMER IN OR UNIQUE, INTIMATE ATMOSPHERE 
PLUSI 
Friday & Saturday Nights LNE BLOE and R&BI PLUS DEUCIOUS FOOD SERVED ALL NIGH1 TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTE 
:lSS-6068 


Tuesday, May 2, 1989 The Observer page 9 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
get's shutout when he took the 
Carry-outs 
rebound of Russ Courtnall's
@arioi'o 

The Rowing Club members should give Mary $7 for
available. 
shot at the side of the crease 
the awards banquet before Wednesday. -The Observer
Ristorante and put it home with 7:54 1412 South Bend Ave.-South of the JACC on St. Rd. 23 South Bend remaining. Montreal's new life 
Boxing Club members who received two of the 
219-232-4244 lasted just 63 seconds. 
same tape during the banquet, please call Mike at x3386. 
-The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­
1991 GRADUATES 
CAREER TRAINEE 
tion. -The Observer 
SUMMER INTERNSHIP and 
Congratulate Your Graduate! 
TUITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 
...Say it with BALLtJONS! 
The CIA is seeking applicants for a Career Trainee Internship and 
Graduation Balloons..reg. $2.25
Tuition Assistance Program for those interested in overseas operations careers. Career Trainees are the Agency's future leaders. To be eligible 
YOU MUST 


i
• 
Be a U.S. Citizen 

• 
Have a minimum GPA of3.0 (4.0 scale) 


~~~~ 
• Be willing to commit to at least eighteen months of CIA 
At
employment after graduation 

IRISH 
• Be able to pass ri,.gorous physical and security screenings 
GARDENS Downstairs in LaFortune Center

IF YOU 
Look for the BIG sale on our last day,
• Will graduate in 1991 with a bachelor's or advanced degree 
Thursday, May 4th!
• 
Have proven leadership ability and interpersonal skills 

• 
Have good writing and oral skills 

• 
Desire to contribute to the security of the United States 


The students at Adworks
WE HAVE 
would like to thank
• A nine-week paid Career Trainee Internship in the summer 
of 1990 to introduce you to CIA 
THE
• 
A generous Tuition Assistance Program for your last year of study 

• 
An exciting and rewarding career for successful 


ADWORKS
candidates after graduation 
ALLSTARS
TO APPLY 
The deadline for taking the entrance examination, a requirement for 
Derek Brown • John "Bunger" Buscher
application, is 14 October 1989. Please contact your area recruiter AS SOON AS POSSIBLE to arrange an exam date. Completed applications 
Derrick Johnson • Kevin Keyes • Tony Rice 
must be submitted by 20 October 1989. NO LATE APPLICATIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED. Interested candidates should call their area Recruitment Activity Center for further information. 
Thank you for an exciting bookstore basketball tournament!
(513) 684-3861 
ADWORKS
Central Intelligence Agency An Equal Opportunity Employer 
ADVERTISING• NOVELTIES• RESUMES 301 LAFORTUNE CENTER•(219) A-D-W-0-R-K-S 

Philadelphia takes 1st game 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL--Ken Wregget continued his sensational relief goaltending as the Philadel­phia Flyers handed Patrick Roy his first home loss of the year, taking Game 1 of the Wales Conference final from the Montreal Canadiens 3-1 Monday night. 
The Flyers, coming off their worst regular season since 1971-72--they were fourth in the Patrick Division at 36-36-8; Montreal was 53-18-9, tops in the Adams--were a decided un­derdog entering the best-of­seven series. But they played a superb positional game, got a short-handed goal from Der-
Make reseroations now {or graduation weekend. Hours 
Dinner-Tuesday-Saturday 4:00p.m. · 11:00 p.m. 
Open Sunday May 21, 4:00pm-10:00pm 
• Private parties accepted up to 100 people. 
rick Smith in the first period, another in the third period from Ilkka Sinisalo and the clinching score by Rick Tocchet after Montreal's only goal. 
That made Roy a loser here for the first time since Boston eliminated Montreal from the second round of last year's playoffs. Roy was 35-0-4 at the Forum since that defeat. He 
also  had  won  his  five  
postseason  appearances  this  
spring.  

But he has never beaten the Flyers and couldn't this time as he was outshined by Wreg­get, the Flyers' backup goaltender since being ac­quired from Toronto in March. Wregget replaced injured Ron Hextall and beat Pittsburgh 4-1 in the seventh game of the Patrick Division finals. With Hextall still out with knee liga­ment damage, Wregget came through again, stopping 24 shots. 
Smith scored on a breakaway at 13:45 of the opening period. With teammate Scott Mellanby penalized, Smith picked up a loose puck after Montreal defenseman Chris Chelios mis­handled a pass at the point. Smith went in on a breakaway, faked right, making Roy com­mit, then easily beat the goalie to the left. 
Dave Poulin set up the second Philadelphia goal when he took the puck from Larry Robinson and hit Sinisalo breaking over the Montreal line. Sinisalo's weak shot trickled under Roy for his first goal of the playoffs. 
Shayne Corson broke Wreg­

The Observer I Scott McCann John Olmstead (29) and the Notre Dame lacrosse team lost to Ohio State 7-5 on Saturday, ending the season with a record of 7-6. The Irish lost their last three games, the same way they opened the season. Olmstead concluded his productive career at Notre Dame with 146 total points, second on the all-time list. 
a e 10 
Irish softball prepares for DaPaul, homestand 
By MARY GARINO three runs in the last inning of Faust, who was 2-for-3 with two fense was also in good form, "I think that the girls really play. RBI. jumping out to an eight-run wanted to win and establish
Sports Writer 
"We played well in the first Missy Linn overwhelmed the lead in the first inning. Rachel themselves as the dominant 
Mter playing its last 12 game but we got a little sloppy Belles in the second game, sur­Crossen, Ruth Kmak and team," Boulac said. games on the road, including in the second game," Boulac rendering only one hit and no Megan Fay led the way for the Notre Dame improved its two doubleheaders this past noted. "We didn't play as ag-walks in five innings. The of-Irish batters. record to 29-20 with the victory. 
gressively on defense, and we ·----------------------------------•
made some errors taht allowed weekend, the Notre Dame softball team returns to its home field for the last six games of the season. 
The Irish will open up the homestand today with two games against one of the toug­hest teams in the area, DePaul. Last week, in the Windy City Classic Tournament, DePaul crushed Notre Dame by a score of 9-1. Head coach Brian Boulac is hopeful that the his team can make a better effort against the Demons this time. 
"Hopefully we can redeem ourselves and play with better intensity," the coach said. "They're an established softball team, one of the strongest in the Midwest, and this will give us a chance to gage how far we've come this season." 
The doubleheader will begin at 4:00 on the Notre Dame softball field behind the Eck Pavilion. 
The Irish will be going into the two games with plenty of momentum after sweeping two doubleheaders from Marquette and St. Mary's over the weekend. On Saturday, the team travelled to Milwaukee and beat the Warriors of Mar­quette by scores of 10-0 and 11­8. 
In the first game, Missy Linn started for Notre Dame and al­lowed only three hits in a five inning game cut short due to the ten run rule. Linn struck out eight and walked two to record the victory. The only threat from Marquette came when they loaded the bases in the fourth, but Linn struck out the next batter for the third out. 
Megan Fay, a sophomore 
from Westboro, Mass., put on 
a hitting show with a 4-for-4 
performance, two RBis and a 
run scored. Fay would continue 
her hot hitting the rest of the 
weekend, batting over .700 with 
eight RBI. 
Senior Barb Mooney started 
the second game for the Irish. 
She pitched effectively but er­
rors by her teammates allowed 
the Warriors to pull within
rc-ufif­
1 OUT! 
anj save
1

I 10 °/o I off your I FIRST MONTHS I RENTAL 
them to get in the ball game. That put a damper on the vic­tory." 
The hitting stars in the second game for the Irish were Rachel Crossen, who was 2-for­4 and drove in two runs and Kathy Vernetti was 2-for-3 and scored twice. 
Notre Dame continued on the winning track with two vic­tories over the Belles of St. Mary's on Sunday. The Irish took the first game by a score of 11-0. St. Mary's pitcher Kim Benjamin gave up eleven hits and six walks in five innings. Her counterpart on the Notre Dame team, Mooney, pitched a two-hitter for her second vic­tory in as many days. 
Mooney was helped by the Irish offense, which generated four runs in the first inning. Nine Notre Dame players had at least one RBI, including Mia 
WANTED: 
STUDENT BODY PHOTOGRAPHER 
To take pictures for Student Government during the 1989-90 school year. 
We'll pay your expenses. 
Experience is preferrable. 
Interested parties please call Mark Flaharty @ 3339 or 239-7668. 
''Idont want 
alot of hype. I just want something I can count on.~~ 

Some long distance companies promise you the moon, but what you really want is dependable, high-quality service. That's just what you'll get when you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at a cost that's a lot less than you think. You can expect low long distance rates, 24-hour operator assistance, clear connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. And the assurance that virtually all of your calls will go through the first time. That's the genius of the
I AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network.
I 
When it's time to
1 
choose, forget the gimmicks
I and make the intelligent
I choice-AT&T. If youl:i like to know more about our products or services, like International Calling and the AT&T Card, call us at 1800 222-0300. 
-
-
-
-
ATs.T 
The right choice. 

Tuesday, May 2, 1989 The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
1 p.m. Baseball vs. Valparaiso University. 
ACROSS 25 Snaky 47 Run sw1mmers 51 Eddy or Edward1 Johann or 
26 Secreted
7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate meeting, Room 202 Center for Con­Barbara 53 Acquisitions at tinuing Education. 27 Type of the beach 
5 British dandy 
tournament 
54 Cantor's wife 9 Attacked 
29 Highland hat 
56 Made over
8:15p.m. Music Department Orchestra Concert, Washington 14 Light beige 
32 Hero 
Hall. 57 Elevator man
15 Site of the Taj 
34Neatas­
Mahal 58 Be adjacent to 
35 Chantilly, e.g. 
16 Worship 59 Corpulent
36 Reading route 
LECTURE CIRCU~T 
17 Part of a list so Zilch
39 Edmund of films 18 Coin depository 61 Art­
40 Cambodian
Noon Kellogg Institute brown bag lecture "The West German 
19 Hemmed, but neighbor 62 Propelled a shell 
Constitution After 40 Years," by Donald Kommers, a gov­
not hawed 
ernment professor, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 41 Follows orders 63 Iowa college 20 Homophone for 42 Miller or Jillian town knot 43 Apparel 64 Footfall 
3:30 p.m. Chemical engineering lecture "Two Purely Vis­21 Bud holder 
44 Roof topping 
coelastic Instabilities," Professor Eric Shaqfeh, AT&T Bell 22 Pedestals 
45 "-Central 
DOWN
Labs, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
23 Ali, to Ali Park" 1 Creature 
2 Thespian 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Greek island 
4 p.m. Kellogg Institute-Peace Institute lecture "Are the 
4 Sing wordlessly 
United States & Central America Still Condemned to Repeti­tions?" by Robert Pastor, Emory University, Center for So­
5 Sampled cial Concerns. 6 Eyeballs 
7 Elevator route, 21 Moonshine 33 Australia or New 46 Aplomb at times container Zealand 48 "Common MENUS 8Suet 22"-evil. 34 At a distance Sense" author 9 Rush 35 Zodiacal sign 49 Site of "Lost
24 A House Is Not 10 TV's "Let's Make -":P.Adler 
36 Loc. of Tampa Horizon" Notre Dame Saint Mary's 37 Large African 50 Draw out 
28 Seeds 11 Nearest the 
antelope 51 Buck chaser 30 Hurting
audience 38 Crowd sounds 52 Country singer Tangy Grilled Sandwich Chicken Pot Pie 31 Dodgers' 43 _Age McEntire
~=+::+.:::-~-:-t.±±-+=-1 12 Cezanne's "Boy BBQ Spareribs Meatloaf in-Vest" victims in 1988 (1870-98 in U.S.) 55 Surmounting playoffs
Mexican Lasagna Vegetable Strata r=-t-:::-t.i':-t::-1 13 Williams and 44 Past and 57 Actress Munson Kennedy 32 Press present 58 Promos
Cheese Sticks Deli Bar 

COMICS 
BLOOM COUNTY BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Tt\E ~l\C£ S~i nlt.n.L SEND S)MEClNE 0\fER. lif>.~t '(Q!J FIGURUl 0\Ji WI-\~\ f>.\.L \S 
MISSING? 
BILL WATIERSON 
T~\S IS oNE GF 1\iOSE iWNGS '(OO ~L'+Jt>.'IS 1=\GURE. WILL llr..PPCI'-l It) s::lMEONE ELS~ . 
...Ut-IFORT\ll'lf>.IEL'l' 
Wt'RE ALL "SOMEONE ELSE.. \C) ~EON£ t.LSE. 
-
MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT 
Any people interested in working on this SUB committee are urged to attend a short meeting tonight, 6:30PM Dooley Room-LaFortune. 

--~----~-----~­
Sports
page 12 
Tennis team ends season, awaits possible NCAA invite 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team ended its season on a positive note last Saturday with an impressive 6-3 victory over Toledo. The win capped a successful year in which the 16­6 Irish progressed miles in their quest for a nationally con­tending program. 
The Irish won the match in the singles, taking all six from the Rockets. Head Coach Mic­hele Gelfman then used a new doubles line-up to give some of her non-regulars a chance to play. 
In the singles, CeCe Cahill, Tracy Barton and Tyler Mus­leh all won impressively, drop­ping only five games between the three of them. A seventh singles match was added to the meet. Resa Kelly dominated that contest, winning 6-0, 6-1. 
Kickoff Classic tickets available through mail 
Special to The Observer 
Student tickets are avail­able for the 1989 Kick Off Classic to be played in the Meadowlands on August 31, 1989. 
Since registration is Au­gust 28, it will not be possible to hold a student ticket dis­tribution on campus in the fall. The only opportunity to buy tickets will be in the summer mailing to all par­ents. 
An application for four tickets will be mailed to all parents, which will be the only chance for students and parents to purchase tickets. 
Sporting events full of unpredictabilities 
The nature of sports is such that it lends itself to massive publicity onslaughts, both positive and negative, so that it is not to be ignored at any cost. 
-

Frank Pastor 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Athletes are prematurely built up as larger-than-life fig­ures, prototypes which the younger generation would do well to model itself after. However, these same athletes often fail to live up to their press clippings in big games, clearing the way for new media darlings. 
What is it about big games that leads otherwise unknown athletes into the spotlight and banishes "superstars" to obscurity? 
The past eight months are chock-full of surprises, of tri­umphs and travails, of underdogs upsetting odds-on favorites on the playing fields, in the arenas and in the newspapers. 
How many times in the past year has a title game, match or series been decided by the exploits of a little-known player who, for all intents and purposes, had no business playing such a big role in such an important contest? 
And by the same token, how many times have highly­publicized stars performed at their worst when it meant the most to their teams? 
From October's World Series to Sunday's Bookstore final, the team that wasn't supposed to win somehow did. 
see SPORTS I page 8 
Tickets are $25 each and the application must be returned to the Notre Dame Ticket Office by June 20. 
Student ticket distribution for all home games will be held Tuesday, Sept. 5 through Friday, Sept. 8. More information on season tickets will be available in the fall. 
A limited supply of tickets will be available for both the Michigan and Purdue away games, and 500 tickets are reserved for the 1989 student trip to Florida for the Miami game. Details about those tickets and trip will be avail­able at a later date. 
In the other three matches the Rockets challenged Katie Clark and Ann and Cathy Brad­shaw, but Notre Dame came away with the victories. 
"We were a little shakey at first, but overall I thought everyone played well," said Gelfman. "They gave us more trouble than I anticipated, but we got the victory. Numbers one and two were no contest at all." 
The doubles roster had a little more trouble which Gelfman attributed mainly to inexperience. The Irish used all new doubles combinations, giving Res a Kelly, Anne Marie Dega and Maura Weidner a chance to compete. 
"They were disappointed with the way they played,'' said Gelfman. "But we had a num­ber three pair playing number one when they had never played together. Some of the others don't travel with us or usually don't play doubles." 
Now Notre Dame must wait until May 5th to find out if the season will continue with an NCAA bid. Gelfman feels their record, up from a 12-14 showing last year, should earn the Irish a spot. The fourth year coach realizes, however, that the decision is out of Notre Dame's hands and now the team's per­formance will have to speak for itself. 
"We had an outstanding season," remarked Gelfman, "beating people we had lost to before. Considering that at any given time three of our top six players were out, I think we did a good job of filling the gaps." 
Gelfman added that injuries hurt the Irish in the doubles line-up especially with many players constantly changing 
see TENNIS/ page 8 
Irish edge Valpo in extra innings 
The Observer I Trey Reymond The women's tennis team concluded its season with a 6-3 victory over Toledo. Coach Michele Gelfman is hoping that the team's 16-6 overall record will be good enough to receive a bid to the NCAA tournament. 
Special to The Observer 
VALPARAISO --The Notre Dame baseball team escaped with a 5-4 victory in extra in­nings against Valparaiso Mon­day night, raising its record to 36-12. 
The Irish now host the Crusaders today at 2 p.m. at Jake Kline Field for a doubleheader. 
In the game on Monday, Dan Peltier scored the winning run in the top of the ninth inning when relief pitcher Jeff Snyder threw a wild pitch. 
Pesavento is hot orospect
Senior shortstop passed up pro offers to play for Irish 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
Pat Pesavento arrived at Notre Dame hoping eventually to become the starting quarterback on the football team. 
Things didn't work out there, so he has settled for becoming perhaps the best shortstop in Notre Dame baseball history. 
The 6-3 senior has scored 100 more runs, rapped out 42 more hits and stolen 46 more bases than any other player to wear a Notre Dame uniform. He also has turned down two offers in the professional draft to stay with the Irish. 
"I didn't want to come here on a scholarship and not contribute to a sport," said Pesavento. "With baseball, I feel like I have contributed and have given something back to Notre Dame." 
Pesavento, who captained the baseball team at Joliet (Ill.) Catholic High School, decided to concentrate fully on football at Notre Dame. He fell victim to the same circumstances that affect almost any underclass Irish football player, going from a starring role in high school to a postion on the sidelines in college. 
"It was the first time I experienced not being out there playing on a consistent basis...or even just playing," said the Lockport, Ill., res­ident. "I think of myself as a competitor, and I didn't feel myself competing as much as I'd like to." 
When Lou Holtz replaced Gerry Faust as Irish football coach, Pesavento decided to switch sports and end his two-year sabbatical from baseball. 
"I kind of saw the writing on the wall," said Pesavento. "Coach Holtz came in with an option-type offense, and I'd never run the option 
It was the first pitch of the game for Snyder, who had been playing rightfield. He had just -relieved starting pitcher Scott Spruitenburg, who had loaded 
the bases with no outs. 
Dan Peltier led off the ninth 
with -a walk, and James Sass 
singled him to second. Frank 
Jacobs walked to load the 
bases, and Snyder relieved 
Spruitenburg. Snyder's first 
pitch was in the dirt. 
Mike Coffey got the win to improve his MCC-leading record to 7-0, pitching four shutout innings. Coffey allowed just one hit and no walks while he struck out two. 
Pat Pesavento continued his hot hitting, going 3-for-4 and raising his hitting streak to 11 consecutive games. Pat Eilers also added three hits for the Irish. 
The Irish pounded out 13 hits to Valparaiso's eight, but Notre Dame left 13 men on base. 
Due to the length of the game, the second game of the doubleheader could not be played because of ensuing darkness. 
,,,., 
The Observer I File Photo 
Pat Pesavento, co-captain of the 1989 Irish baseball team, has passed up two offers from professional teams to conclude his baseqall eligibility. Pesavento is currently on an 11-game hitting streak. 
in high school. It was time to be honest with 
myself and with the people around me. 
"I really thank Coach Holtz for his under­
standing in the whole thing because he really 
was supportive of me and said 'if that's what 
you want to do, go for it,' " continued 
Pesavento, who also thanked assistant athletic 
director Brian Boulac for easing his transition 
to the baseball team. "I still can't believe I said 
that to Coach Holtz, that I was switching over 
to baseball...I must have a lot of guts." 
see PROSPECT I page 7 

