---~ 

Heart of darkness 
ACCENT: A guide to your Valentine's Day 
A mostly cloudy Valentine's 
Day with a 50 percent chance 
of rain or snow tonight. Lows 
from 25 to 30.

VIEWPOINT: Vandalism on the rise 

VOL. XXII, NO. 86 

___,.. 
University President Father Edward Malloy (far right) joins the Year of Cultural Diversity panel discussion at Theodore's Monday. Father Theodore Hesburgh, 
5 Central American leaders meet and open summit talks 
Associated Press ments inaugurating the known as the Arias plan for its meeting. principal architect, was de­COSTA del sol, El Salvador -He was flanked by Presi­signed to promote peace and 
Five Central American presi­dents Jose Azcona of Honduras, democracy. dents began a summit Monday Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua, with predictions their two-day Oscar Arias of Costa Rica and Arias, who won the 1987 meeting will contribute to Vinicio Cerezo of Guatemala. Nobel Peace Prize for the plan, peace, democracy and prog­said upon arrival the meeting ress in the troubled region. All except Ortega, who wore would "re-establish our 
The leaders appeared his green Sandinista army uni­credibility with the Central buoyed by the mere fact of form, wore casual attire fitting American people and the entire being under the same roof after the climate and ambiance at world.... Our peoples are six months of postponements, this seaside resort complex 40 tired. Without peace there is no delay and dispute over the sum­miles southeast of San Sal­possibility of improving condi­mit's prospects, agenda and vador. tions of life for Central date. Americans. This is a historic 
"I am sure that we, with op­Following Duarte's state­responsibility that we the five timism, will analyze efforts ment, the presidents began presidents have." we've made according to work in a closed session. Esquipulas II and search for fa­The chief executives will A decade of civil conflicts vorable solutions that will analyze the successes and fail­and economic depression have promote peace and progress in ures to date of the Esquipulas transformed the once­Central America," said Sal­II peace plan, signed by the promising region of 25 million vadoran President Jose same five men in uuatemala inhabitants into one of the Napoleon Duarte in brief com-on Aug. 7, 1987. The plan, also world's most turbulent zones. 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1989 
North's lawyers want case dropped, say Reagan aided Contras 
Associated Press support of the guerrilla war 
against the leftist government 
WASHINGTON -Former in Nicaragua. 
President Reagan "par­Former National Security 
ticipated personally and di­Adviser John Poindexter tes­
rectly" in giving favored tified at the congressional Iran­
treatment to countries that Contra hearings in 1987 that 
supported the Contras in Reagan favored making up for 
Nicaragua, lawyers for Oliver that lack of official U.S. sup­
North said in a court filing port with money from other na­
aimed at having charges tions. But the assertion that 
against their client dropped. Reagan was personally in­
North's attorney Brendan volved in arranging to return 
Sullivan, opposing a compro­the favors is new. 
mise between the independent 

counsel and the Justice Depar­Sullivan's statements were 
tment, said in court papers in a written response to U.S. 
released Monday that that pro­District Judge Gerhard Gesell, 
posed deal on keeping certain objecting to a new plan for 
secrets out of the trial would protecting national security 
prevent him from introducing secrets at North's trial. 
this evidence which he said was 

central to North's defense. The plan, worked out by in­
He also criticized Attorney dependent counsel Lawrence 
General Dick Thornburgh for Walsh and the Justice Depart­
declining "to take the political ment, "would gut the defense 
heat" and make a separate and guarantee a 'cuckoo-clock' 
secrets-protecting move that trial," Sullivan said. It would 
could lead to charges being hide "critical information 
thrown out. about the Reagan administra­
Sullivan said, "At the heart tion's third-country arrange­
of this case are the quid pro ments for military support of 
quo and other third-country ar­the resistance and the official 
rangements with which the nondisclosure of those arrange­
Reagan administration ob­ments." 
tained military support for the 

resistanc'e during the so-called Sullivan said that the way the 
Boland Amendments, and the government proposed to pres­
policy that those third-country ent this information to the 
arrangements WQuld not be dis­jury-through a general "ad­
closed outside a limited group mission" with no details 
of executive branch officials." allowed -would leave out "that 
The Boland amendments, President Reagan and top ex­
passed by Congress, restricted ecutive branch officials partic­
and at times prohibited the ipated personally and directly 
spending of federal funds , in in those arrangements." 
Notre Dame Honor Code compared to other schools' 
By MAURA KRAUSE and KELLEY TUTHILL Staff Reporters 
Dissimilarities are appar­ent when comparing Notre Dame's experimental honor code with that of two other universities. 
The first in a three-part series. 
The Honor Code 
Three differences between Notre Dame's honor code and those of Valparaiso Uni­versity and the University of Virginia are that VU and UVA's honor codes are en­tirely student run, while Notre Dame's is not. Notre Dame's honesty committees are also departmental, rather than campus-wide, and Notre Dame professors 

remain in the classrooms 
during exams. 
Valparaiso University has 
had an honor code for 45 
years, and the University of 
Virginia has had one for 147 
years, while Notre Dame 
began its experiment in 
April of 1987. 
The honor codes at the 
three universities pertain to 
cheating on all work turned 
in for academic credit, but 
UVA goes even further, ex­
tending the code to include 
"all acts of lying, cheating 
and stealing anywhere in Al­
bemarle County (where the 
University is located)," said 
Allen Sierchin, Honor Sys­
tem educator and co­
ordinator at the University 
of Virginia. 

The wording and scope of 
these honor codes suggest underlying differences in the codes. 
Notre Dame's code allows for a professor or teaching assistant to remain in the testing room to answer any necessary questions, but does not allow him to proctor the exam. However, at VU, testing procedures are such that "the Honor Gystem replaced the faculty proc­tored exams and calls for students to proctor each other," according to Eric Sampson, a two year record­
ing secretary for  the  VU  
Honor Committee.  
Testing  procedures  at  

UVA are much like those at VU. According to Bill Man­del, vice chairman of the Honor Committee, "Profes­sors generally don't stay for the exam; for the most part, they drop off the exams and leave. Students can even leave the room and take the test elsewhere if it may be 
more comfortable for them. 
The honor code represents a 
strong agreement between 
the students and profes­
sors." 
Notre Dame's honor code 
is also different from that of 
UVA and VU in that its 
honesty committee hearings 
are not campus wide. "Right 
now, we have departmental 
honesty committees. I think 
that when it's kept in the de­
partment, it's more 
familiar," said Dan Ger­
lach, a senior on the Honor 
Code Committee. 
Each committee usually 
consists of two professors · and one student, however, Gerlach said he "would like to see equal studentfaculty 
representation." 
The University has 
departmental honesty com­
mittees "because the honor 
code is experimental, and we want as many people in­volved with the honor code as possible," said Kristen Stamile, chairwoman of the Honor Code Committee. 

As the honor code has been implemented fairly recent­ly, the junior and senior classes at Notre Dame are not automatically under the code. 
According to Lora Spauld­ing, assistant registrar at the University, "If the in­structor (of an upper-level class) decides before hand that a course will be on the honor code and publishes it as such, then it is (on the) honor code, no matter what. However, if it is not pub­lished as (beng on the) honor code, then the students vote on it. A unanimous vote is 
See HONOR, page 5 

The Observer Tuesday, February 14, 1989



:~.2 • 
IN BRIEF 
Foodshare, a Notre Dame student group, has received an award from the Campus Outreach Opportunity League (COOL). Since last March, Foodshare members have been gathering leftover food from the dining halls and distributing it to homeless and hungry people in the South Bend area. The food, which includes unused portions of the main entree, salads and desserts, is picked up by teams of Notre Dame students and then transported in vans provided by the Center for Social Concerns to food distribution agencies the South Bend. Foodshare received the award in COOL's "exemplary projects" category. -The Observer 


OF INTEREST 
Overseas Development Network will hold a short meeting to finalize plans for Third World awareness week at the Center for Social Concerns at 8:30p.m. today. -The Observer 
For Seniors Only Series presents Mr. Killilea to talk about purchasing a car Wednesday from 7:00 to 8:~ 
p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge at St. Mary's. -The Observer 
The ISO needs people who are interested in writing articles for the new international magazine, The Passport. There will be a meeting today at 8:00 p.m. in the ISO Lounge, second floor LaFortune Student Center. For more information call Manuel 1223 or Felix 2465. -The Observer 
"Still Killing Us Softly: Images of Women in Advertising" will be shown today at 6:30p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. There will be a discussion following the film. Sponsored by Women United for Justice and Peace and gender studies. -The Observer 
The Isis Gallery will present an exhibition of clay sculptures by Joan Bontempo from today until March 3. The exhibition will open after a 4:00p.m. lecture by Bon­tempo in Room 200 of Riley Hall. The Isis Gallery is located on the third floor of Riley Hall of Art and Design. Gallery hours are 8:30a.m. -5:00p.m., Monday-Friday. -The Ob­server 
The Tuskegee Airmen World War II fighter pilots tell their adventure today at 7:00p.m., at the Montgomery Theatre, La Fortune Student Center. Sponsored by Minority Student Affairs and the Minority Concerns Com­mission, SGA. -The Observer 
The Black Cultural Arts Center will be having a general meeting today at 7:00p.m. in the BCAC building. 
-The Observer 
The Semester Around the World foreign study program is holding an information meeting in the Res­burgh Library Auditorium on Wednesday at 7:00p.m. -The Observer 
Juniors -registration for JPW ends today. Hours are from 2:00-10:00 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. You must bring IDs for each person that you register. Registration is mandatory. -The Observer 
Peace Corps film seminar presents fhe film "Let it Begin Here" and a general information session will be presented at the Center for Social Concerns on Wednesday at 7:00p.m. -The Observer 
Air Force Col. Richard Mullane will be speaking to ROTC cadets in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium Thursday at 6:30p.m. Col Mullane was the mission spe­cialist in the space shuttle Atlantis whose mission was successfully completed in November 1988. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 


Design Editor ....... Kathy Huston Copy Editor ......................... Greg Lucas Design Assistant ............ Karen Newlove Sports Copy Editor ................ Pete Skiko Typesetters .......................... Tim Kiefer Accent Copy Editor ........... Matt Murphy ............................................. Mike Kolar Accent Designer ................. Alison Cocks News Editor...................... Michelle Dall Photographer .................. Heleni Korwek 
ne o..n. (lJSPS '99 2..e(JO()) is published Monday throuah Friday accpt durina cum ud vuation periods. neo..n.is published by the studenu of the Ulllivcnity of Notre Dame ud Saint Mary's Collqc. Subscriptions may be purcbu· ed for S40 per year <S2' per semester) by writiq ne OMener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dule, IDdiaDa 46~56. 
ne OMinw is a membet of ne AllodaW Pre.. All reptoduction ripu are racrved. 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Dining hall cuisine is food for thought 
In honor of Valentines day I have decided to 

dedicate this column to the true love of my 
life--Notre Dame food. 
Ever since I came here as a freshman, I have been fascinated by the multitude of culinary choices that Notre Dame Food Services offers. After many years of the Notre Dame experience I have noticed that the "food" (and I use the term loosely) they serve here fits neatly into five different categories. 
Category 1: It looks harmless enough. 

The dining hall food that best exemplifies this category is the Hungarian noodle bake. When one first sees it in those big metal containers it looks harmless enough, but once you start eating it you realize that it burns your insides out all the way down. 
Cheese French toast also fits this category. Although no one I know has ever seen cheese French toast, it didn't seem like a bad idea. Well, despite their no doubt noble intentions the cheese French toast was a dinner failure. 
Category 2: I didn't know it was legal to do that to food. 
There are so many foods at Notre Dame in this category that I don't know where to start. It seems that every meal in the dining hall has at least one entree that has been processed, boiled, chunked, cured, and formed. 
I've always worried about the boneless rib sandwich. How do you make a boneless rib sandwich? It seems like an oxymoron of sorts. Isn't a rib a bone? 
The nomenclature isn't the real issue though. The boneless rib sandwich is the epitome of processed food. All they probably do is process the heck out of some animal and then some huge machine stamps out rib molds. There simply must be better food out there. 
The processed food problem doesn't end there. It continues on to include chicken nug­gets, chicken patties, minute steak sandwiches and many more of our dining hall favorites. That's the scary thing by the way --these are the foods we like most. The wonders never do cease. 
Category 3: How'd they do that? 

How on God's green earth did someone dis­cover the meatless cheeseburger? Not only is the prospect of eating a meatless cheeseburger repulsive but it is also intriguing to contemplate how one makes a meatless cheeseburger. The most appetizing version I can imagine is a bun with a slice of American cheese, but I am con­fident that our Ivy award-winning staff over at the dining hall came up with a far more creative solution. 
Category 4:It can't possibly hurt us 'cause we have it everyday. Hamburgers, cheeseburgers, double-domer burgers, chili, jello, hamburgers, chili, 

e• 
• . hamburgers, hamburgers ... It seems as though we have these thing every day of the week. It's a cyde that will ne.ver end as long as I'm at Notre Dame and will probably continue long after I'm go1r1e. After all, how can we possibly dislike these foods? We know what they are and over the years we have built up an immunity to them. If only these foods could go the way of the infamous chicken patty of yesteryear. One year we had it every day, now we never see it. Go figure? Category 5: Bad food on Fridays because we go to a Catholic school. As soon as Lent rears its meatless purple head most students on campus realize that they are doomed to a series of meatless Fridays, and the rest thank God that Notre Dame helps them to fast one day a week. It makes absolutely no sense that we are not given the choice to eat meat on Fridays. On a campus that strives to be culturally diverse we are forcing everyone to accept the Catholic faith regardless of their own religion. It seems hypocritical. One must also analyze the religious reason behind doing without meat on Fridays. The pur­pose as I see it is to reinforce our Catholic faith by recalling our religious roots and sacrificing meat for meals on Friday. The problem is that 
it is not a sacrifice if we have no choice about 
giving up meat. It is no longer a personal faith 
statement made of our own accord, but rather 
one that we have been for•ced into. 


uOOO~ t1~~~ t1~ffit n~ ~ uOOOJJOO.~ n® Sophomores ore selling shot glosses in the dining holl for S1. 
GET READY TO CHASE AWAY YOUR FEBRUARY BLUE NEXT WEEK, FEB. 19-24 WE'VE GOT SOME FUN PLANNED FOR YOU~ 
SundaY-1Q-Basketball game 2pm Angela food raffle at ha1fti me. Monday:20-STEVE KIMBROUGH and a Washington birthday party. 9:15 Hagg~,r Parlor TuesdaY-21-REGENCY singing group 9pm Carroll Audi tori urn FREE 
Wed,Thur,Fri-BIG S1 9& 11 pm Carroll Aud Ihrusday_23-RAGTIME, Free Hoggor Gome Room 7pm 
Tuesday, February 14, 1989 page 3 
Students urged to transcend prejudice 
The Observer I Heleni Korwek Mary Hogan introduces Peter Deutsch and Chris Dah­Iceberg Debates at Farley Monday night. Fisher won 
And In this corner 
len of Fisher and Robin Maher And Cathy Bradshaw in a 3-0 decision. of Farley in one of tl1e quarter-final rounds of the 


Rooms still available for JPW and S.MC Sophomore' Parents Weekend. 
Approximately 7 miles from campus 

Reasonable rates for our King Leisure and Double-Bed Rooms 
Call for reservations 
Indiana Toll Free 1-800-922-7750 or 219 256-2300 

, -:5:,'· ~_.;:::-, .c::::c;~ ~ ·v -.;..._,-~:;;-: ~;..<:
~ c::...-• .---6
"---=-I ~ ~ c:;:: ~ 
:..-1 ··-~~ {VlA._,~ ~~ c.-v ' 


Iceberg debates results 

The results of the quarter­final round of the Iceberg Debates Monday night are: 
Fisher (pro) 3 vs. Farley 0 Stanford (pro) 2 vs. Lewis 1 Zahm (pro) 3 vs. Sorin 0 
P.E. Bye 
The debate topic was: "That the NCAA should adopt Proposition 42 at its 1990 convention." 
~--ctii$.
, -';' 
-. , --I
/':: \ '­







IRISH 
GARDENS 8t. Valentine's Day 1989 

Serving ND/SMC Community 
for the past SIX St. Valentine's Days!! "Thank you for your support" -The Irish Gardens Posse 
Mon.-Sat. 
:You are cordia[[y invited to.... 


'Tiie Campus-Wide 

S'Y2( 
~eaturing tfie Cfiicago 13and 
a'ftlJ_@_ 3/{.@L'@ift 
Prize 'Drawing; fie[c[ tfirougfiout tfie nigfit 
%icfnight 'Drawing: 'Evening for two in Cfiicago incfucfing £imousine, cfinner, ana sfiow 

'J\{sJrtft Vining Commons ~eGruary 24, 1989 9:00-2:00a.m. 
'Tic/(?ts $3 per person • avaifa6Ce at La:Jortune Infonnation 'Desk_ anc£ from your cfonn S'Yl\. commissioner 
B BRADLEY GALKO
Y Staff Reporter 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus, urged students to transcend their cultural prejudices Mon­day night at a panel discussion entitled "Cultural Diversity at Notre Dame: Past, Present, Future." 
The panel consisted of six Notre Dame students and three faculty members, including University President Father Edward Malloy. The panel members were of various ethnic and cultural back­grounds. 
In his opening remarks, Res­burgh, who moderated the dis­cussion, said, "We need a lot of discussions like this because they really clear the air." 
Some panelists raised major criticisms with the Univer­sity's treatment of cultural di­versity. "I don't think the uni­versity has taken the issue of cultural diversity seriously at all," said Robert Price, the stu­dent panelist representing stu­dents of Mrican-American
descent. 
However, Price added, "There are many myths I think these discussion groups will help solve." 

In addition to the discussion groups, student panelist Mari Fuentes urged minority stu­~ents not to criticize, but to get mvolved in such activities as the Multi-Cultural Council and the Admissions Office's minority recruitment process. 
"Students have a chance to create their own opportuni­ties," added Luis Fraga, assis­tant professor of government and international studies. "You have a responsibility to make it better," he said, "to make it more open." 
Mike Miller, the student panelist representing caucasians, said, "I think stereotypes are the problem." 
Malloy said one of his objec­tives is "to create an opportu­nity (for minorities) that wouldn't exist otherwise." "I'm hopeful," he added, "(and) I'm here to listen." 
ND Crimestoppers start 
awareness 
By JIM LANG News Staff 

The Notre Dame Crimestop­pers organization will be mounting a crime education campaign within the next week to inform students of its pres­ence on campus, according to Ann Marie Walker, president of the new organization. 
Crimestoppers, in conjunc­tion with Notre Dame Security, plans to place lists of crime prevention tips on tables in the dining halls next week, Walker said. 
The group will be funding its education drive and subse­quent publicity drives with an allocation from student gov­ernment, along with money rec ived in donation boxes placed in LaFortune Student Center and the bookstore, she said. 
"Notre Dame Crimestoppers is an affiliate of South Bend 

campaign 
Crimestoppers and therefore part of a national organization to promote community involve­ment in solving crimes," Walker wrote in a letter to The Observer earlier this year. 
Like other Crimestopper groups, the Notre Dame Crimestoppers publicize a "Crime of the Week," printed in The Observer, and encour­age callers to volunteer infor­mation concerning that crime or any other. 
Callers are assigned a num­ber to assure anonymity and receive an award if their tips lead to an arrest, Walker said. 

Walker said that, because Notre Dame is the first college campus to have a Crimestop­per program of its own, the group is proceeding through its first year on a "trial and error" 
basis. 
"Our success has been fairly good considering that we're striking out onto some new ground," said Walker. 
Corrections 
An article in Monday's Ob­server on ·student govern­ment elections was incor­rect. Candidates for student body president and the stu­dent senate may begin cam­paigning Feb. 20 at 12:01 
a.m. A mandatory meeting for prospective candidates will be held in LaFortune's Dooley Room Wednesday at 7:30p.m. 
A misquote appeared in an article in The Observer Feb. 9 on women in the workplace. Teresa Ghilar­ducci, assistant professor of economics, said bringing a. feminist speaker to campus was difficult because no group in the past was willing to do the difficult work re­quired to obtain such a speaker. The lecture series was organized by more than 10 people, Ghilarducci said. 



page 4 
;-,-'1. 
~'f\· 





'.#' "•.:"
.f • .. t ~l-'k 
"' ~\l .,.. ~ 

~!!~~p ~4 
:"'· . :X-, 
.. ::::.--""' -: 
. v " 
'· ~./_:,,.·!,, 
.... 'if/
,..,_~\""' . ..,.. 
Battle of the Bulge 
A group of Saint Mary's students participate in an afternoon aerobics workout at the Angela Athletic 

Student Body President Tom Doyle said that instead of
SMC Programming Board meets 

trying to rush an election to replace McCarthy so late in the year, the senate would assume

to discuss Winterfest activities 
By LAUREL VITALE 
News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Program­ming Board met Monday night to review plans for Winterfest, a week long event of winter ac­tivities which will be held the week of Feb. 20-24 on Saint Mary's campus. 
Julie Wagner, commissioner of Saint Mary's student activi­ties, says she hopes Winterfest activities will liven up the month and help students fight the "February blues." 
Comedian Steve Kimbrough kicks off Winterfest Monday, 
SUMMER CAMP 
POSITIONS Counselors: 21 +, coed, sleepaway camp, Mass. Berksi1i:-es. WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, drama, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, judo, dance, photography, computers, nature, w i·lderness, model rocketry, guitar, yearbook, woodworking, RN, typist, Write: Camp Emerson, 5 
Brassie Rd, Eastcnester, NY 1 0707 or call 914/773-9406 
. 
~ .r
r\ 
Feb. 20 at 9:15p.m. in Haggar College Center parlor. Regency, a five-person singing and dancing ensemble, will also be performing for free in Carroll Auditorium on Tues­day. 
Regency may not be the only group dancing during the week of Winterfest. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are in­vited to an all-campus SYR to be held in Notre Dame's North 
Tuesday, February 14, 1989
The Observer 


District 2 Studen1: Senator resigns ~,ost 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER 
Staff Reporter 
The Student Senate suspended its normal agenda Monday evening in light of the surprise resignation of student senator Brian McCarthy and the appearance of a guest speaker highlighting the up­coming charity event, "Christmas in April." 
McCarthy, student senator of district two, which includes Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips, Keenan, Stanford, Zahm and Farley halls, said that he had
The Observer I Heleni Korwek 
enjoyed serving as a student
Facility in an attempt to shape up before Spring Break. 
senator but had to resign for personal reasons. 
Tuesdays. A Great Day to meet Your Friends at ChiChi's 





unteers will work on an as­signed 50 homes in great need of repair. Repairs will include painting, plumbing, plastering, roofing and electrical work. 
The homes must be owned by the resident, so landlords are not helped in any way. In addi­tion, Doran said only low in­come, handicapped, or other needy persons will be helped. 
"Christmas in April" or­ganizers hope to attract at least 1000 volunte,ers, both skilled and unskilled workers, accor­ding to Doran. 
"If you're willing to help out, that's all that is necessary," said Doran, emphasizing that all types of volunteers are needed. "All we're asking is for people to try," he said. 
Doran noted the success of identical programs in other parts of the nation, saying that in another ]program's fourth year, over 400 homes were repaired with a force of over 4000 volunteers. 
The charity's motto is "Spread the .Joy," which Doran hopes will let people know they can live in a better environ­ment. 
Senate plans to help recruit volunteers for the April charity. "Student Senate should take some role in 'Christmas in April' planning," Doyle said. 
Dining Hall on Feb. 24 from 9:00p.m. to 2:00 a.m. Tickets for the dance cost $3. 
Saint Mary's will also be presenting the movie "Big," starring Tom Hanks, Wednes­day through Friday of that week at 9:00p.m. and at 11:00 
p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. "Big" will also be shown on Sunday at 2:00 p.m. Tickets cost $1. 
his duties until the upcoming April elections. 
The charity event, "Christmas in April," was des­cribed to the senate by Assis­tant Director of Residence Life Pat Doran. Doran said "Christmas in April" is basi­cally a one day charity project where people will go out to neighborhoods northeast of campus to fix homes for the needy. 
On April 8, Doran said, vol­



1111PPtf"Jefateri"81RTIIOI1tf 

M. ANN BRUN:NER 
to tJ[q-g«Jut 1/al'elfttirM 

WILL YOU MAR:RY ME
. -. 

AND TAKE MY t~AME
2 2 1 2 

TO BE YOUR O'WN ? 
s n t d 








LOVE 
GREGORY A. JE13SEN 
Lo"'11f!ft, ;lfot~ Oa.rl&C!fl~~'t~to;w 



Tuesday, February 14, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Four dorms left in Iceberg-Debates 
By KATHY RYAN debate, while the judges scored munication skill~ org-aniza­the debate performance in a tion, analysis and use of
News Staff 
separate room. evidence and logic," Thiel 
Fisher, Stanford and Zahm "The question and answer added. "A lot of times, the halls advanced to the semi-(session) went marvelously. It judges vote for the team that finals in last night's round of was good to see people into the advocates a view opposite their the Iceberg Debates. The topic issue," commented Marty own personal beliefs; in fact, of the debates was whether or Tracey, a debater for Lewis in more times than not, the not the NCAA should adopt hall. ability of the debaters to debate 
Proposition 42 at its convention Matt Thiel, third-time the opposite side of their per­in 1990. Master of Ceremonies for Stan-sonal beliefs is impressive,""There was good prepara-ford Hall, was pleased with the said Thiel. tion on each side. They got at attendance. "Attendance is 
Many debate participants 
a lot of underlying issues. I definitely related to the topic. 
said they felt that their Iceberg 
think they overall did a good When the topic directly affects experience was valuable. 
job" said Professor Ken the students, more students Tracey said, "We achievedJa~eson, one of the three show up to speak their minds," some authentic dialogue; in judges at the Stanford-Lewis he said. 
fact, we nearly approached a 
debate. "Judges did an excellent job synthesis of perspectives. The A question and answer ses-taking into account all aspects judging was fair. The debate 
sion followed the formal of the debate: topics, com-was fun." 

Honor 
~:mtinued from oaae 1 
neeoed to vote in the honor code." 
This semester, 17 upper level courses are on the honor code, and all 17 were published as such, said Spaulding. 
Because each college has its own honesty committee, "There are different rules for each committees hearings," said Stamile. 
According to the 1988-89 Du Lac, the procedure for dealing with academic dishonesty is uniform for each college. 
"If an instructor judges that a student has violated aca­demic integrity in an examina­tion or in work submitted, the instructor must submit a report in writing to the Honesty 
signs an investigator for the 
case. The investigator then 
"brings the evidence to the 
council president who decides 
if a trial case will be held," said 
Sampson. A first offense calls 
for failure of the course, the 
second offense entails failure of 
the course and suspension for 
a semester and the third of­
fense results in expulsion. 
"The honor sy-stem at UVA 
is entirely student run--faculty 
cannot even accuse a student 
of an honor violation. Three 
criteria must be met to be ac­
cused of an honor violation­
there must be the act, intent 
and seriousness," said Seir­
chin. 
"The student may choose a trial by all honor committee members or by one with com­mittee members and random students," said Seirchin. 

Committee of the department. ''An 80 percent vote is re­The committee will then hold a quired for a guilty verdict, and HolyCrossFathers hearing which the instructor dismissal is the only punish­and student are invited to at­Vocation Counseling ment," said Seirchin. tend... the committee will A violation of the code is make a ruling. If it rules that "looked at as breach of student How do !know a violation has occurred, it will trust of each other. The honor if l have a vocation to the priesthood? also recommend to the instruc­code is right up there with Jef­tor an appropriate ferson as something making up Wat is the academic penalty ... the student has the this University's tradition,"and formation program for becoming a priest? right to appeal...the dean shall said Seirchin. consider possible disciplinaryWat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? action, involving penalties up The honor code at Notre to dismissal from the Univer­Dame is not yet established as What are the various sity," according to DuLac. a tradition, as this is only its apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests., VU's campus-wide honor second year. Until this year, in­code consists of one honor coun­coming freshmen were not Hbwdol pray cil chaired by 20 students who notified about the honor codeif I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthocx! have voting power in trials and and t'm not sure? before committing to attend five faculty members who do the University, said Kevin For a personal, confidential interview with no obligation, not. Mter witnessing a viola­Rooney, director of undergrad­I ase write or call the vocation directo Rev. John Conley, CSC tion, students and faculty uate admissions. _ Rev. Paul Doyle, CSC members have 10 and 15 aca­, f\ P.O. Box 541 However, "this year, the 1. ~ ~ Notre Dame, Ind. 46556·0541 demic days respectively to turn honor code is explained in the For appointment, it in. University Bulletin (and is)call between 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Mter notification of a viola­available to anyone inter­.... Fr Paul Doyle! I Fr. John Conley 219 239-6385 tion, the Honor Committee as­ested," said Rooney. To all those interested in running for next year's STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT I VICE PRESIDENT AND SENATOR The Ombudsman Society will hold a mandatory meeting on Tuesday, February 14, \ at 7:30 at the Sorin Room in LaFortune(Room 108).  


P.O. Box Q 
Viewpoint
pageS Tuesday, February 14, 1989 
fanaticism breeds intolerance. Even so, sometimes there is a need to be fanatical until mature understanding develops. 
Yes, I went to Medjugorje this sum­mer. My impressions of the place greatly influenced my perception of life and faith in a positive way. I agree with the Pope that "it is a wonderful place to go and pray," especially considering all that I had an opportunity to learn there. 
Father Griffin states that the Church and the world need more love. That is part of the message of Medjugorje, love of God complimented by love of fellow man. As far as Our Lady "interfering" with the Church's role in spreading the Gospel, the idea of Redemption is pro­posed along with "the Day of the Lord" in the Gospels. Our Lady is important to the Church because she was the first Christian, the firs1t believer, through her Motherhood (this is emphasized in the Papal encyclical of Mar. 25, 1987). She is also the spi~ritual mother of all Christians; why shouldn't she want to help people in theilr faith in her Son? One cannot separate Christ from Our • Lady; He is the reason for her impor­tance. She has yet, in her apparitions, to say anything against the Church; in fact there has been a call to "return". 
If Our Lady is reminding people of the importance of God, what is "wrong" with that? Medjugorje is a reminder of God's love and justice. If there is a "Day of the Lord," that isn't what is important (in fact Marija and Viscka were quick to state that the "judgment" wasn't what mattered), what is important is prayer and a true relationship with God within one's faith, be it Roman Catholic, Protestant, Buddhist, or Islam. 
Dawn Marie Murdy Lewis Hall Feb. 10, 1989 
The Obser'Ver retains the right to edit all commentaries submit­ted to thE~ Viewpoint department. Please note that the more briefer the piece, the greater its chances of reaching pr·int. 

Students call for help with vandalism 
Dear Editor: 
Vandalism and theft have escalated at an intolerable rate in the St. Joseph Hall parking lot. During the past few months, eight of the hall's thirty graduate students who use the parking lot have had their cars forcibly entered, windows shattered and radios stolen. Others have uncovered evidence of tampering, such as bent antennas and obscenities scratched into their cars. The latest of these incidents occurred only a few weeks ago. On Feb. 6 at ap­proximately 10:30 p.m., someone broke into three cars, took out radios and shattered a few windows along the way. 
The parking lot, located almost 100 
yards from the dormitory, is freely ac­
cessible at all times by Douglas Road. 
The two dimly lit lamps in the lot make · 
detection of vandals extremely diffi­
cult. These conditions pose not only a 
threat to our property, but also to our 
physical well-being. Incidents of van­
dalism have often occurred in the early 
evening. Therefore, it is quite conceiv­
able that a student may return to the 
parking lot and encounter qur frequent, 
uninvited "guests." An injury from 
such a confrontation could destroy the 
resident's professional career. While 
this scenario may seem extreme, those 
familiar with the situation contend that 
it may be inevitable. 
Some student residents have already 
taken self-help measures such as 
eyeing any non-resident with great 
suspicion or slowly and surreptitiously 
trailing the car of a suspected thief in 
order to gather information. While the 
hall residents do not intend to form 
vigilante squads in the parking lot, we 
alone have few viable means to protect 
ourselves and our property. 
As residents of St. Joseph's Hall, we would like for the University to negate this potentially explosive situation by acting expeditiously to provide us with effective security. The University has the ability and resources to correct the endemic vandalism. It could increase its daily patrols to such an extent that it would discourage theft. Another al­ternative involves the neighboring Moreau Seminary. Moreover, the Uni­

versity could install better lighting on 
the premises or even hire a temporary 
security guard until the problem has 
abated. 

As a result of the vandalism, the hall 
residents continually utter words of 
concern over the University's seeming 
indifference to the problem. We need 
more than promises or consolation. We 
now want action and results. The resi­
dents of St. Joseph Hall hope that the 
University will resolve this crisis in the 
first class manner to which we have 
become accustomed. 

Karl McDonald Steven Richard St. Joseph Hall Feb. 11, 1989 

Dinner shows signs of ignorance 
Dear Editor: 

I realize that this is the year of cul­tural diversity. I know that this is the year for which appreciation for the various races is supposed to be shown. The dinner served at the dining halls on Feb. 9, however, was most assuredly not the correct means for accomplish­ing this task. This "soul food" dinner, so graciously prepared for the students of Notre Dame, proved to be a tremen­dous slap in the face for the black stu­dents of this community. 
The effort to relate to the black pop­ulation of the campus was noble, but quite an embarrassment as well. The menu served Thursday was like some­thing extracted from one of the sitcoms of the 1970s. Neckbones, black-eyed peas, spare ribs, and potato pie were a few of the choice selections placed before the shaking heads of many black students. I must say, at first I was just glad that there were no chicken or pig intestines on the menu. This relief was short-lived, however, for the crowning glory was yet to come... watermelon! 
I would think that for the most part, people on this campus are intelligent. If this is true, then how could one caucasian see it proper to say to one black woman, "You're eating cereal?" as if she should be eating the meal just because she is black! 
This may come as a shock, but black people have varying tastebuds, just as those who are not black. Truly it upsets me to think that people still have not realized that many different races eat the food that was served on Thursday. A meal of ribs, black-eyed peas, and sweet potato pie is not just a "black thing." 
If the meal was just served as another 
meal in the dining hall, or if it was iden­
tified for what it really was--food of 
the South, then there would not be as 
much embarrassment. However, by 
labeling the food "soul food," and by 
hanging up posters of Gospel singers 
who happen to be black, the or­
chestrators of the meal show disrespect 
to the blacks of the community. 
I do not wish to cause any kind of 
interracial friction, but Thursday, for 
the first time since my arrival at Notre 
Dame last August, I felt genuinely un­
comfortable around my fellow stu­
dents. I felt as though I was being 
segregated from others of the commu­
nity. I am sure that these feelings were 
shared by many of the black students 
on campus. It was evident by the con­
gregation of many of these students in 
one section of the dining hall, as if on 
display for a curious audience. 
When alumni come to the school and 
ask every black student they see, 
"What sport do you play?" we smile 
and take it with a grain of salt. We take 
these things as signs of ignorance. Still, 
this is a new day and age. It is time for 
the shroud of ignorance to be lifted. I 
know the people on this campus are in­
telligent. Please prove this and refrain 
from displaying such showcases of ut­
ter disrespect for your fellow human 
beings. 
'· 

Andre Barrett Grace Hall Feb. 12, 1989 

Medjugorje stresses spiritual growth 
Dear Editor: 

In reading Father· Griffin's most recent article regarding Medjugorje, I was motivated to write a reponse which, I hope could add some perspec­tive to this issue. Father Griffin seems disturbed by the whole idea of Med­jugorje and Marion apparitions whose purpose are to enjoin humanity to re­member the sacrifice of her Son. The fanaticism surrounding Medjogorje is and should be a concern because 
Doonesbury Gary Trudeau Quote of the Day 
/1./CU, THAT, OFIT'S KINO OF AN EXP&RJM&Nl 
/I./HAT IF HE {.{)(}RS8, /JJO()W
fAIOIA/... AU OF YOU AR& 

MARJ<. OUR..HOP/31'3 7HATIFW!3 
IXJe5 SOME-VlaAT8 TH8
RfAUY (j(}/NG TO LAY RE/110V& 7H& t=fAR. a=RJf)fOJl&, THING RCAUY, 5PIRJT OF me

OFF BU5H FOR. A 

Pm-!APS BUSH WIU [)(}SOME­
R£AUYBUSH-HONefMCXJV. /AJe'f)
IAJHOte WBBI<.? 

THING THAT'S ACTUAU.Y 
/..11</3.~ I HA'Ve70rAUIT 

"We always believe our
STATESMANUK& I
\ 

OFF. '-~"""""' 
first love is C>ur last, and
" 
our last love is our first." 
George J. W'hyte-Melville (1821-1878) 
Editorial Board



-~e-Obse.----~~r----­

--=-1.-=ll -&.-=-Y=-'-' O~Serations Eloard 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef ....... Chris Murphy Business Manager John Oxrider Manag1ng Ed1tor .. Chris Donnelly Advert1smg Design Manager Molly Killen News Editor Reg1s Cocc1a Advertising Manager Lmda Goldschmidt 
The voserver IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1verSily of News Edttor Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager Bernadette Shdts Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessanly reflect the pollc1es of V1ewpoint Ed1rot ..... Dave Bruner Systems Manager Mark Ridgeway the adm1mstration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and obtechvely as Sports Editor ... Marty Strasen Controller Todd Hardiman poss1ble Unsigned editonals represent the opinion of the matority of the Editonal Board Accent Ed1tor. ..... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager Marga Bruns Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Samt Mary·s Editor. Sandy Cerimele space is available to all members of the community and the free expresSion of varying Photo Editor. Michael Moran optmons on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 




Accent
Tuesday, February 14, 
1989 page 7 
How to succeed 
• you, how do you get dates? The an­IAN MITCHELL 
swer is simple: call up people you 
accent writer 

I 
don't know, introduce yourself and t's Valentine's Day, and we all use your best line. A good line should always tell something positive about 
tn love ... 
know what that means; buying a 
yourself. Here's one of my own
card for that special someone. But 
never-fail examples: "Hi, my name
Dr. Valentine's
sometimes it's hard to find a card is Ian Mitchell and my computer hasthat expresses exactly what you want twenty megabytes of hard driveto say. For your benefit--and at no storage." (It's a little-known fact, but

pt:escription
additional cost to you--here are a few women go gaga over mass storageideas for cards that voice just the devices.) Once you've got a date, youright thought: can save a few bucks in: Subtle Hint cards: · Phase 2: Cheap Dating Tips ­
Outside: "Will you be my valentine 
Take your date out to dinner-at
" 
the dining hall. If she asks questions,
Inside: " ... after you drop a few 
explain that you really enjoy the food 
pounds?" 
there. If you're lucky, it'll be a themeHonest cards: night, giving you all the atmosphere 
"I was going to send you candy and 
of an exotic restaurant with none of
flowers, valentine ..." 
the price. 
" ... but I guess I'm just too cheap!" 
To really impress her, you mayPersuasive cards: want to hand the card scanner an
"Will you be my valentine . .." 
extra five along with your I.D. card
" ... or do I have to slaughter your 
and ask for "the best table in the 
entire family first?" 
house." Gaze into each others' eyes Low esteem cards: as you both share a single "tuna
"Will you be my valentine . .." 
muffin." Take a quiet stroll around 
" ... or am I just a pathetic piece of 
the salad bar and use mustard to
slime, unworthy and undeserving of 
write your initials in the vat o'
any real human affection?" 
ketchup. What could be more roman­And finally, creepy cards: tic?
"You don't know who I am, valen­
Dinner's over, and you can't even
tine . .." 
spring for a movie? No problem, just 
" ... but I've been watching you and 
head over to the wide-screen TV at
I know where you live and when 
-
LaFortune. If you're lucky, maybe 
you're alone." 
you can catch an episode of "The Hogan Family" and share a laughNow, I know what you're saying­over the trials and tribulations of sure, I'd love to give one of those Sandy Duncan and Jason Bateman asgreat cards and go out with a they deal with their wacky family fabulous babe/gorgeous hunk, but I and zany neighbors! 
don't know the right person and I Since nothing tops a really good don't have any money for a date. 
sitcom, you'll probably want to end
Well, now your problems are over, because here--in a nutshell--is Dr. the evening right here. Of course, it Valentine's prescription for love--how would be inexcusably rude to leave to meet members of the opposite sex your date to find their way back to 
and how to have a great date for their dorm in the dark--so give 'em a free! campus map. All in all, it'll be a Phase 1: How to meet womew'men Valentine's Day they'll never forget. If no one you know will go out with No matter how hard they try. 
· 
...And War 

Dangerous Liasons 

I
DOUG RADTKE enough surprising twists and accent writer turns to maintain the audi­ence's captivation for the two n layman's terms, "Dan­and a half hour screen time. gerous Liaisons" is an ac­To my liking, the director complishment. The movie avoided commonplace tech­balances a plot revolving niques for pleasing the around the power of seduction viewer. The scenes containing with a subtle statement about nudity were necessary, brief, the true value of love and the and avoided the degradation beauty and importance of so often used by Hollywood. femininity. This is all accom­In fact, the lighthearted atti­plished without a dependence tude toward sexuality proved upon sentimentality or gaudy humorous and a pleasant es­romantic language. cape from the tense repres­
The backdrop for the movie sion of these thoughts found is aristocratic France shortly in American society. before the French Revolution. "Dangerous Liaisons" is The scheming Marquise de Merteull (Glenn Close), the aristocratic rogue Vlcomte de Both the Marquise de Mer­different from anything which Valmont (John Malkovich), and the beautiful and virtuous Madame de Tourvel (Michelle teuil, played by Glenn Close, has come out for a long time. Pfeiffer) in the delightfully decadent "Dangerous Liasons." and the Vicomte de Valmont, The excellent script was en­brought to life by John hanced by the perfect charac­

Bill Watterson

Malkovich, want to taint terization by the actors. Step­Calvin and Hobbes someone's name. The Mar­hen Frears, the director, gave 
pOIAI{!JS?." ~OU OON\-GtT
quise desires to disgrace a minor emphasis to the WHL \\lEtt Wl\\1 nl~T 
Sir..~(£, OOR 0£loWIDS f..l'{i DE\oii\NDS! UNLOCK
former lover, and the camera angles and scenery 
St£1<'1 'IER1 R£A9:>N~Blt! TillS OOOR!
Vicomte seeks to bring a and concetrated on facial beautiful, married woman's shots to set the proper tone. (Michelle Pfeiffer) downfall The movie will earn the by seducing her. The plot is awards which it deserves; I made especially interesting do foresee Best Picture as 
-
as the Marquise and the one where it will be a con­Vicomte attempt this while at tender. My final advice is to the same time trying to hurt see "Dangerous Liaisons" one another because of their with a friend. The intricacies former intimacy. can be overwhelming if a 
The storyline possesses detail or two escapes you. 
__-r 
-
Tuesday, February 14, 1989
page 8 The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Sain1 Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadlilne for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per dlay. 



Classifieds 

GOVERNMENT JOBSI  JUNIORS  Dear Stephanie,  To the men of the NO Glee Club because:  Bob, The "rush" is on in my heart always!  
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE  NOW HIRING THIS AREAl $10,213 TO $75,473. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315­T.J3.«112 EXT. F-2382H.  FORMAL PROOFS ARE HERE COME SEE YOUR MUG SHOTS AND PLACE ORDERS AT THE CLASS OFFICE THIS WEEK 1-3PM  This 14TH day of February is the first day that we have spent together twice. Thank GOD I asked you to play  1) who else can sing so well? 2) you guys look smashing in tuxes. 3) you party like no one else. 4) you are the best buds a gi~ could ask fori! Happy Valentine's  Let's continue the fun times. Happy Valentine's Day! I love you. Ri R.M. and Nancy, Have a wonderful  
287-4082  MANPOWER NEEDED 6-8 PM IlON­ tennis.  One year together is just the  Day, Clubbersl Luv---DM  Valantine's Day. Love, Terri  
FRI.  beginning.  I  pray  that  you  can  
$S+tR.  PLUS  PRODUCTION  ADOPTION  PATIENTLY wait for me. As each day  ESPERANZA LOPEZ  HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO:  Mal·  
TyplngWordproceulng 237-19411  BONUSES. 8191.  CALL  3-5  PM  816-683­ Loving,secure married couple unable to conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le­ ends, nmeans that it's getting closer until I reveal my wish at the fountain in  HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY LEVA  lory,Patty,lrene,Lisa,Jen, Ann,Kim,Trish,Sara,Patty,Kathy,  Ker·  
gal,medical exp. Pis call collect Chris &  Chicago. Happy Valentines Day. Happy  p.s. only 3 more months leftll  ry ,Colleen,Gretchen,Coyote,Roden  
NEED EXTRA INCOME? Find out about  Susan, 703-276-9751  Completely con·  Anniversary. Good luck on Comps. I'm  Karen,Wendy,Patty,NaAcy,Kerri,  
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7408  our Remarl<able Residual Income Opper· tunityl US SPRINT provides the best value long distance ser-vice in America ... because it's the ONLY wholly-owned nationwide 100% FIBER OPTIC Net·  fidential. John, A toast to us--may our colors always live together. Happy Valentine's  looking forward to seeing you tonight! Love, Michael  SEAN, TO THE MOST WONDERFUL PERSON IN THE WORLD.THANKX SO MUCH FOR EVERYTHING THIS YEAR.YOU ARE A DOLLII HOPE OUR RELATIONSHIP CONTINUES TO  Margo,Lips,Biondi,Jennifer,Sue, Barb,Red,Amy,Sharon,Tracy,Amy, Wendy,Mora,Janet,Atilla,Brenda,X, Sue,Kattrina,Lisa,Nancy. WE SALUTE YOU! Love,  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  CALL  work. Become an Independent Marketing Rep for Network 2000 TODAY! 21 9'234· 5723  Day! All my Love, Catherine  ELENA: HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYIII From, A Secret Admirerer  GROW STRONGER EVERY DAY. I LOVE YOU VERY VERY MUCH! HAPPY VALENTINES DAY! LOVE & KISSES,  The 733 St. Louis st. Guys  
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH II Hardbound & paperbacl<s! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK  ANYONE GOING TO OR THRU IT­HACA,NY FOR SPRING BREAK? I  LEANNE & SHEILA GREETINGS FROM L.A.  JB 613 Flanner: Hope your day is fan· tastic. From, an admirer.  RUTH ANN CHRIS McCARTHY  Tim-­You know how blunt I like to be, but there are times when I am at a loss  
- 808 Howard St. just oH of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342  NEED A RIDE! CALL CHRIS AT x1073. WANTED: Ride to IU Bloomington.217 Brian 1927  "'N.D. Swimmers" Good Luck&Swim Fast At MCC's Love, Gunther  SO WE'RE NOT SOPHOMORES. SO WE'RE NOT IN SPANISH. IS THERE STILL HOPE? JUANITA  for words. Quite simply, thanks for giving me a reason to smile again. Love, Deb  
ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT  HOMES  GROIN- Jenny  
from $1(U-Repelr). Delinquent tax property. Repoaaealona. Call 802· 113&-8885 Ex1. GH8262  FOR SALE  ATTENTION All CRAZED CUPIDSII Mary Mahoney could be your drNm Valentine date. II you -her on campus today, give her what you  BEING w-YOU IS BETTER THAN CHOCOLATE! ·BE  FANDANGO a.k.a. (you know who you are) HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYII  HAPPY VALENTINESII I LOVE YOU FOREVER! Juanqui  
SAVE TIME! "How To Report On a Book You Haven't Actually Read." Send $10: Box 15071 Columbus, OH 43215  Ia It True You Can Buy Jeepe for $44 through the U.S. go~ment? Get the facta todayt Call 1-312-742-1142 Ex· t.7318  know she -nta.... MONEYI HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY MARY AND REMEMBER BE GOOD AND IF YOU CAN'T BE GOOD BE CAREFUL!  TO MY BEAUTIFUL PRINCESS: THANK YOU FOR TWO WONDERFUL  K. house of INIQUITY, den of SIN, remem­ber: a healthy house is a happy house.  Happy Valentine's Day Maggie­Wish I was there to spend ij with you. !love you! -Jim·  
FRENCH & ARABIC. experienced tutors Mary & Mohammed 287-4336.  ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Forda, Mer­ Molly  Love ya,  YEARS. I LOVE YOU. FOREVER YOURS,  happy v-dayl your torturer. j-how can i fall? EASIL VI ilu. happy v-day.  Kim 0 Happy V Day. Thanks for being  
I LOST/FOUND I LOST: 30 Macintosh diskettes from my car in C1. The importance of those disks  c:edH Corvetta, Chevye. Surplue Buyan Guide. 802-838-8885 ext. A8262 SYNTHESIZER,YAMAHA DX7 dijigal­full midi call Greg 234-6355  ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new· born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877· 3574  CHRISTIAN MEKO, HAPPY VALEN­TINES DAY. YOUR VALENTINES MES­SAGE IS ON PAGE 99 IN THE BOOK. LOVE YOUIII JULIE  VIOLETS ARE BLUE-ROSES ARE RED WE WANT $20 OR SLUGGO IS DEAD !Ill AWAIT THE DETAILS  a great friend. Love Always D.B. Happy Valentine's Day, Brian!! Thanks for all of the love and happiness that you have brought to my life. I LOVE YOUIIIII  
cannot be exageraled. $$$ for informa­tion leading to the return of them. Please call# 4936 or 289-1628. Or~ you already have them, please return them to 230  CONTINENTAL BUMP-ANYWHERE IN U.S.A cheap call steve x283-1079 PICCOLO. silver, Armstrong. $200 like  JFD, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYI XOXO, KJT  REGINA-McCANDLESS FORMALII DID YOU BY CHANCE TAKE HOME THE WRONG COAT?? POSSIBLY A CAS­ To Paul Kane, Tom Varnum, and Chris Barnabo--my Senior Bar Buddies! I love you guys! You are the best! Carrnina  Kev-The Hot Man,  Love, C  
Knott Hall. No questions asked.  new. Mary 287-4336  SIDY BLACK AND WHITE ONE, size &11  Surprise! Happy Valentine's  
- FOUND:PAIR OF. CLEAR,RIMMED GLASSES SOMETIME LAST SEMEs­TER NEAR LYONS'MORRISSEY.CALL ERIC AT 4147. IF YOU THINK THESE ARE YOURS,THEY PROBABLY AREIII LOST: BLACK AND WHITE TWEED LONG WOOL COAT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KARIN AT 272·9903. (LOST IN MADELEVA CLASSROOM LAST WEEK) LOST I lost my long, blue Aldolfo over-coat at senior bar fast Friday night. I've got some­one else's. Min has a name tag in ij, n you've got my coat and I'Ve-got yourS, call Scott Spurr 27Hl680 and we can exchange them. LOST: I lost a gold bracelet that my par­ents gave to me this X-mas somewhere between South Dining Hall and 06. n found, please call Chris x2894. $$$ LOST GRAY GLOVE AT CUSHING ON LAST FRIDAY IF HAVE, PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 2132 LOST: A PAIR OF BURGUNDY GLASSES IN A CASE SOMEWHERE BETWEEN HAGGAR AND 02 P-LOT AT NO OR SOMEWHERE AROUND MCCANDLESS, ITS PARKING LOT, OR THE DINING HALL AT ST. MARY'S. ANY INFO, PLEASE CALL 284-5409 LOST: A BLACK EELSKIN WALLET THURSDAY NIGHT EITHER IN FRONT OF BRIDGET$ OR SOMEWHERE BE· TWEEN D-1 PARKING LOT AND BADIN HALL. IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO 329 BADIN OR CALL SHANNON AT 3690. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. LOST: Brown wallet at the Rock on Friday. Call Chria x1851 or return to Rock. Reward-no questionsll  RUSH FAN5-rare RUSH albums 4 sale call Pete-3657 TICKETS NEED HOUSTON TIX PREF. LOWER ARENA 272-7690 NT$,237-2920 DYS PERSONALS LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review Mrly. Kapllln-SMH revlewe to many atetea available here In South Bend. Trenefw beck home for eumlner. Dla­counta for Kaplan LSAT alumni. ReMrVtt before March 2 Call272-4135. Aak for Sua. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN$' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-600-343-8373 SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spend 7nts1ldllya at Spring Brak'a HOT· TEST raeort, The Clarendon Plaza home of Panrod'wrhe Plantation Club and the largeat pool clack ON THE BEACH! $195 per paraon limited apace. Call today Brakaway Toure 1· 800-444-7384. BRIGHTEN YOUR LIFEII MEET THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL THROUGH OUR SINGLES CLUB. INTRO SINGLES CLUB, BOX 3006, BOSTON, MA 02130. JUNIORS-JPW WEEKEND REGISTRA· TION is February 13-14, from 2-10pm in  Loverboy, Can we do the goofiest people immitation today? Love, Marilyn THE TOP TEN VINNIE QUOTES 10. No, you don't understand. 9. I want a solo! 8. This is Fr. Pat. Open the door 7. Steve, can I borrow your negatives? 6. In high school, I was top of my class. 5. I'm not cluelesslll 4. Good, I still look great. 3. Steve, I need your negatives. 2. I really want a solollllllll 1. I was so respected in high school! IIIIIII Jim: I didn't expect to be where I am, but I'm glad I'm here. Thanks for being you, and have a Happy Valentine's Day! CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING are coming!II I................................................................ Feb 17 9 to 1 Haggar Hall SMC OC SEMI SEMI FORMAL ITS A BASH LIVE BAND REFRESHMENTS BRING 2105 Tx on sale M to F in the OC Lounge or call 271-8419 If anyone is going to ST. LOUIS this weekend, and needs a rider, please call Juli x3762. Will share all expenses. I need a ride to Indianapolis this weekend. Will pay gas. Please call Col­leen x3764 I need a ride from anyone going to or by Dayton, OH leaving :Y.3 or 314 call x4431. GET YOUR HUMPDAY OFF TO THE  petit petne?? PLEASE CALL 284-5178 HELPII WE NEED A RIDE TO N.Y. (ITHACA AREA) FOR SPRING BREAKII PLEASE CALL MISSY AND SUE 284­5456. THOUGH I'VE DONE SOME SLEUTH­ING, I HAVEN'T A CLUE: WHO PUT IN THE AD ABOUT NANCY DREW? DAVIDII LOOK HEREII YOU DON'T GO TO NO, BUT YOU GOT A PERSONAL! I THAT ALONE MUST MEAN SOMETH­ING... THE WEEKEND LOOKS PROMISING AND WILL "BE WORTH THE TIME." LOVE ALWAYS, ROSE HAPPY VALENTINES DAY NANBO I LOVE YOU! CLUE II 1: CHECK YOUR DOOR. LOVE, MICKEY. M.A.-To tha best 2 and a han year girlfriend that I've ever had. Happy Valentines Day! Lets hope we share many morel Luv B Hay Karattn: Thanks. Love, Jimmy Laura Gonzalez Happy Valentine's Day from your not-so-secret admirer! A.LOUIS.VILLAFRANCA HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY LEVA 1989 KEVIN O'BRIEN Roaaaare rad Shamrocka a,. gran; You're the cu-guyWe've ever ..., Happy Valentlnea Dayl  YOU MAKE MY HEART FLUTTER AND LIVER QUIVER EVERY TIME I WALK INTO THE OBSERVER OFFICE Happy Valantlne'e Day Janetll CFS: Can you dance? I think you, being a Hawkeye, need to prove yourself. Happy Valentine's Day! . -The COMPETITION JIMBO Happy Valentine'• Day! You were probebly expecting thlal Hal Love you total Suale Mike Jannlnga: II the word 4 the day ta quality ... does thta r1111ke you the man of the yNr? CURIOUS RAHO, Happy Valentine's Day. All we want is a night at Briget's with you. Signed, "RAHO's WOMEN" Dear Blond Guy w'gl ....., Wilt you be our valentine? Love, Eleenor, Lizzie, Marilyn and me SMACKIN'---CAN'T IMAGINE A VALEN· TINES DAY WITHOUT AT LEAST ONE PERSONAL VOWING LOVE TO YOU $MACKIN---WE LOVE YOUIII Hey tiger, Have a Happy V-dayl Love you, Your 4th roomie. Michael: HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! Looking forward to a great break! Bear with me. I love you! Love, S. Dana I think you're cool. Love, Dave  Day to my blind date from "The Summer." I love you! The Crazy CO Broad-Gina Dear Jim, Happy Valentine's Day to tha sweetest guy that anyone could ask for. You are not only my love, but you are also my best freind. I love you. Love, Leur a Happy Valentine'• Day, Pete I didn1 get you a present but you can borrow my car. I love you. Kelly Lealie, I love you I love you I love you But not necessarily in that order. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY Brian Kate, Malini, Sandy and Alison, Happy Valentine's Day to the most playful wo­men in Fa~ey Hall. Hey Baby, Happy Valentine's Day to my one and only. DON'T LAUGH! I'm never going to forget four months ago today under the Dome. H still hasn't become boring and nMher have you. Here's to even more and better times together. I Love You. Rl, Thanks for the best year and a half of my life! Considering you're a FO and not a GID, anything you WANT, you gotL.. LOVE, Yukon (Jack) Cornelius  
FOUND! SEIKO quartz WATCH call283­1166 to identify REGINM.lcCANDLESS FORMALII DID YOU BY CHANCE TAKE HOME THE WRONG COAT, A CASSIDY BLACK AND WHITE ONE, SIZE &11 PETITE? CALL 284-5178. THOUGH IVE DONE SOME SLEUTH­ the Sorin Room of Lafortune. You must bring an 10 for each person that you reg­ister. OVERSEAS JOBS.$1100-2000 mo. Summer, Yr.round.AII Counii'IM,AII llelda. Fra Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· IN04, Cor0r111 Del Mar, CA 92825. hlag  RIGHT START. LISTEN TO CHRIS MALIN EVERY WEDNESDAY MOR· NING FROM 7-9 ON WVFI LOTS OF MUSIC AND YOUR REQUESTS. KELLY, You're THE BEST. Thanks for Friday night. FITZ  KELLY 0' Roaaa a,. rad Relnbowa are bright; Aa a deughter You're cute alghtl HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY Mlke-H seems Density has drawn me back to the personals. These past five  Little D.(ok winner) I'm so glad you're my GP,MM, Golden Boy, and main man pro bowler. Happy Valentine's Day !I Love ya, Miss WYO. Sue Lippa--Even though you are now a freshman goddess--you are still our goddess too--we love youll HEY DORKI (Doug Green)Congrats!  Davida, Bellino mio... ti arne semprel Con un abbraccio forte e amore, Therese D BEATON Happy Valentine's Day  
ING, WHO PUT IN THE AD ABOUT NANCY DREW? ................................................................ FOR RENT FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK· FAST JUST 20 IIINS. FROM NO. IDEAL FOR All NO ACT1VIT1ES. RESERVE NOW FOR All UPCOMING EVENTS. 11H71-5711.  SUMMER JOBS All LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-1373 SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD IN­FORMATION MEETING WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 15 7:00PM MEMORIAL Ll· BRARY AUDITORIUM BE THEREII  To all who attended theHoward 4N Halls of Hedonism par1y on Set., we apologize for anything we may have said or done that oHended you. -The Hostesses (but we hope you had a good time!) To my roomates: It has been a great year so far, I love you guys. Happy Valentines Day your Honorary Junior  months have been the best I know we've got love of the lasting kind, so 'all I am and all I'm not, I give ij all to you". Happy Valentine's Day, Mickey. I'll always love you ...lots.·Amy Dear San You'll always be my Valentine I love you Dennis p.s. so, will you . . . ?  This is one year today. Happy Valentine's Day! Kara says "HI!" I love you! Love always, Deanna. SHEILA, Happy Valentine's Day! You're always on my mind. Thanks for being there whan I need you. Love, ANDREW  Next time I'll try your black-eyed peas. 1279 JENNY KRAFT Happy Bir1hday to my Wisconsin Valentine!I LOVE your sister at NO tyler· Happy Valentine's Day thanks for being there -a good friend  
2 ROOM EFFICIENCY SINGLE PER­SON 288-0955 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­211·7153. HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D.  Thanks, Paullll TK&PG SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES The DATING GAME is coming!  HAPPY BELATED TIM You're legal In Canada,PARTYI your library "fans" Have to be here for Break? Make $sf Matt King, a blind student, needa readers both now and over break. Call 1681.  Jackie, Happy Valentine's Day sweetie. I'm so lucky to have you. And even though you're miles and miles away, you're always in my heart. X X X I Love You, 0 0 0 Paulie  KELLEY TUTHILL-Thanks to you, the MAWITW, I've been the HGITW since Aug 271 You are the HWE, SWITW and the BGE which makes me THE LUCK­IEST GUY IN THE WORLD! HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY and I LOVE YOUII JOE ("JAMES")  SARAH, THANKS FOR 2 GREAT YEARS. I LOVE YOU. DANNY  
- ~~~3-~~a.-277-3017. WANTED  "DESPERATEII Need ride to NEW OR­LEANS or vieinijy. 314-3'12. Will share $$. call Tanja x1302 TOMAS-SAN: thanks for everything.  HAPPY VALENTINES DAY TO ALL LOVE, AMY (COPY CENTER) "BELLS WILL BE RINGING...' CON· GRATS SANDYII WE KNOW WE'LL  GIPPERIII You Need A Shoe Phone, You're Never Home Ill I'll still take lunch And a twister lesson Gimme a call  Pookie Bear-Just remember that my love for you will never fade. Independence and a relationship can indeed go together, but to find out, we have to try. I promise you, you won't regret sharing your life with me. I LOVE YOUIII  Dear Triah the Dish, You think all I think about is beer but this is to let you know I do think of other things and now I'm thhinking of you. I'm wondering ~ you'll be my valentine but I'm not sure because of your under the table flirting. I pray you change your ways. Be Mine. Love,Van  
ERES LO MAXIMO. Te Quiere MAS, R.  NEVER HEAR THE END OF IT NOWII  Your fellow Zebra.  Snugglebunny  
NO Law echool atudente to be repe for Kaplan-SIIH Bar Review cou,...  JUNIORS  QUESTION: WHO IS HEARING THOSE BELLS IN OUR ROOM NEXT?!? the  COOSHIII  
Earn frN bar--COUIW plua S$'8. CaB 272-4135. Aak for Sue.  WE NEED A SENIOR FORMAL CHAIRPERSON  saga of LeMans 434 continues...  Dearest Merritt: The past 11 months have oeen  KATHY: Will you be my valentine?  
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT  SANDY CERIMELE CORRIGANII HAS  the happiest of my l~e. No more "selective  (I know this Isn't very original but It Is  
ATTENTION-HIRING! Government jobs­your area $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-802· 838-888 Ext. R6262  CLASS OFFICE 1-3PM OUEON WED.  A NICE "RING" TO IT, DOESN'T IT CON­GRATULATIONS SANDY AND DENNIS LOVE, MIMI  amnesia', I promise. I love you.  Mike  sincere)  -Tim  see CLASS, page 9  

Tuesday, February 14, 1989 
The Observer page 9 
Volleyball, track clubs impressive 
The Women's Track Club competed in the Red Simmons Invitational track meet at the University of Michigan last weekend. Two outstanding performances were the high­light for the Irish. The two mile relay team grabbed second place with an impressive time of 10: 01 and Therese Lemanski finished third in the mile behind two very strong runners. Another exceptional performance was turned in by Amy Blaising, who achieved her personal record in the 3000 meters. 
Two weekends ago, the club traveled out of the country to Ontario, Canada for the Can-Am Track Classic. There, 
Greg Scheckenbach 
Club Corner 


Theresa Rice placed 3rd in the competitive 1500 meters and Sheila Stewart tossed her way to an 8th place finish in the shot put. Therese Lemanski, again, performed out­standingly with a lOth-place finish in the 3000 meters. Cath­leen Rice, Diana Bradley, and Cris Norton all placed in their individual heats put failed to place in the finals. The meet was quite a success for the club considering that most of the teams were at the varsity level. 
This weekend, a few of the members will participate in the Indiana Intercollegiate track meet. Two weeks from now, the Irish will host a meet at the Loftus center in which four or five teams will participate. 
Men's Volleyball Club played three times this past weekend, winning twice. Friday night, Notre Dame was taken to five games by the University of Toledo before winning 10-15, 16-14, 15-13, 3-15, 15-2. Jim Sullivan recorded four service aces in the win, while Andrew Sullivan tallied 23 kills. Pat Burke led the team with 17 digs along with numerous kills at the net. The streaky Irish had trouble putting away a definitely overmatched Toledo squad that would not give up until the final game. 
Saturday night, the Irish played a powerful team from Canada's Guelph University. The scene was not pretty as Notre Dame lost in three, 8-15, 6-15, 13-15. The final game was the only bright spot for the Irish as they nearly grabbed a victory. 
Sunday, the Irish bounced back with a five-game win against Midwest rival Michigan State. The scores were 15-12, 15-9, 13-15,4-15, 16-14. Tom Martin snuffed five blocks for Notre Dame as he rebounded after a lackluster per­formance against Guelph University. Andrew Sullivan and Mike Sheedy led the Irish with 17 and 15 kills, respectively. Sullivan had an incredible 43 kills in the three games over the weekend. 
Notre Dame will take on Toledo University this Wed­nesday at 7:30 in the Joyce ACC Pit. 

A BIG THAnKS 
to the two students who helped me up from the ice and gave their time so graciously -wished I could have caught 
your names. And to the security guards who rushed me to St. Joseph's Hospital 
-Sister Matilda 
-. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Cheerleading Team will have an informational meeting Monday, Feb. 20, for anyone interested in trying out for the 1989-90 Cheerleading Team (either as a cheerleader or the leprechaun). The meeting will take place at 8 p.m. in the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
The ND Squash Club is seeking students to help organize the club for the upcoming year. Please call Bill Murray at x3211 for informa­tion. -The Observer 
The SMC-ND women's lacrosse club is looking for a volunteer coach. Anyone inter­ested or wanting more information should call Kathryn Benz at 284-5482. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC women's lacrosse team will hold its first practice Monday, Feb. 20, at the Angela Athletic Facility. Please be there by 6:45p.m. and remember to bring $5 for club dues and sticks if you have them. -The Observer 
Asquashfilmdealingwiththefundamentals of the game will be shown Wednesday at 6:30 
p.m. at the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC. For more information, please call Bill Murray at x3211. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 

ND men's tennis to battle Illinois 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
The match-ups will be about as even as they can get today at 3 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion when the Notre Dame men's tennis team (5-2) hosts regional rival Illinois. 
Although the two teams have not had a dual meet in recent years, the players are by no means unfamiliar with one an­other. Bayliss pointed out that in tournaments this fall many members of the Irish squad battled the Illini (2-0). 
"Their best player, Hector Ortiz, played our number-one, Dave DiLucia, and beat him 6-4 in the third set," noted Bayliss. "He's got a big forehand and he's good off the ground." 
Bayliss also mentioned the Il­lini's Mark Krajewski and Neal Brown, who pulled out close, three-set victories over Ryan Wenger and Walter Dolhare of the Irish, respectively, earlier in the season. 
Although the Irish have come out second in those meetings, Bayliss thinks they have a good chance to win. 
"Those matches that are decided in the third set can al­ways go either way," explained Bayliss. "It's like overtime in basketball. I expect that every match will be close." 

Bayliss thinks the meet will be decided in the doubles com­petition. At No. 3 doubles the Irish again lost in the third set 6-4 to the Illini at a tournament at Navy earlier this year. However, DiLucia combined with Paul Odland at number­one doubles to come away with a victory. 
"This is the kind of meet we are going to have to win if we're going to have a successful season. We have to win these close matches at home." 

Class 
continued from page 8 
.......................................................... ............. Happy V·Day to Betsy (Betty) & Pat and Jeanna (Basner) & Kevin, who prove that love CAN exist at 
ND... Love, T and Kathy (Katie) 
............. . .. ················································ ROO· Since our night of Kensington crime I've hoped we'll be friends for all time. so now ... Wanna get sublime?? Tl AMO, Roberto! ·Pamela 
Kristi-Happy Valentine's Day. I Love You. -Danny Boy 
Heather, To the girl who is in my heart not only on this day, but every 
day: Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Panda Bear 

Hello Cutest Date, This is for you, have fun: 
Merci pour les sourires, le bonheur, et Ia couleur que tu m'a donne. Tu es une lumiere dans un monde gris. Bonne fete de Saint Valentini 
De tout mon coeur, Une princesse HEY MATH GEEKS! THANKS FOR BEING SUCH GREAT FRIENDS(EVEN YOU JEFF) HAPPY VALENTINES DAY AND ALL THAT GUSH! 
Dear FIAFIA, 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY!!! 
Love, CALVIN 
Dearest Patty, 
You have stolen my heart away! 
T e quiero con todo mi corazon y 
alma. 
Will you be my Valentine? 
Love, 
JV 
Bowser (aka Danny): HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! Thanks for a wondertul night "at the hop"!! Love, Sandra Dee 
Camille, Lilia, Dave, Doug, Chelsea Barb, Amy, Jennie, Marcie, Frank, Pat, Jon, Kerry, Adrienne, Kim, Yvette, ~zanne, Monica, Steve, and An­
nmarie: HAPPY VALENTINES DAY! (Yes, I'm too cheap to send an ad to each of you.) Love from your favorite "has-been": the ex-Miss Berrien Springs 
... you're someone so wonderful.....without a doubt, 
it's never cold out 
all the time before 
was driltin' away ... ...stay with me forever I can promise you that I'll be true, I'll be true for you.. 
I LOVE YOUIIII 

TO MY BEAUTIFUL PRINCESS: THANK YOU FOR TWO WONDERFUL YEARS. I LOVE YOU. FOREVER YOURS, YOUR SWEETHEART 
SMA 

I hope my liver endures this relationship. You really know how to hang-out. HAPPY V-DAY 
Love, 
JRJ 
PUD: I've decided that you're not so bad after all. .. Happy Valentine's Day!! Love, Cassandra 
SIMON HERBERT, THANK YOU FOR A WONDER­FUL 2 YEARS!! I'LL LOVE YOU FOREVER II LOVE, YOUR UTILE PRINCESS. 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY SMOOCHIE­MAGOOCHIE!II WUV YOU VERY MUCH! LOVE, PAC B. (ps. slurp, I need a scooby-snack) 
DAVE, A DANCE ONLY LASTS A NIGHT, BUT A MEMORY LASTS FOREVER. THANKS FOR ALL OF THEM, MOLLY 
T-T FITZ: GET YOUR happy that we gave it another shot girl HERE! ms. kate 
MIKE TRI·MIL WAS GREAT SO WAS KEENAN REVIEW. HERE'S TO TALL SNOWMEN AND DIN­NER ON YOU!! CALVIN 
ODE TO A LEMON: I SING OF THEE A LEMON SO SWEET I SMILE ON THEE THE LEMON I SQUEEZE. LOVE, A LEMON 
o~===================================,o 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
Applications are currently being accepted for the following position: 

Business Manager 

• 
Oversee production of a newspaper. . . . . .. . 

• 
Work with these seven departments: Advertismg, Circulation, Busmess, Production, Systems, Observer Typesetting, and Ad Design 

• 
Will be responsible for planning and implementing a balanced budget for the student newspaper. 

• 
Need to be a motivator, planner, and trouble shooter. 

• 
No previous newspaper publishing experience necessary. 


Call Chris Donnelly at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position. 


o~==================================~o 

Tuesday, February 14, 1989
The Observer 






Sooners back in the saddle 
Oklahoma regains top spot in AP poll, Georgetown wins 
. ,, 
) f


,"'t.
AP Photo Roy Marble (23) of the Iowa Hawkeyes drives the lane In a game earlier this week against Wisconsin. Iowa beat Ohio State 83-75 last night, breaking the Hawkeyes' two-game Big Ten losing streak. The AP Top Twenty and a college basketball roundup can be found at 
right. 

Fencing 
continued from page 12 
0) and freshman Mike Trisko (6-0) were all undefeated. Colin Gumbs finished at 6-2 for the day while Chris Nee went 3-3. 
For the epee team, senior captain Ted Fay had a perfect day at 11-0 as did newcomer Paul Vogt (6-0). Senior Todd Griffee and freshman David Calderhead had matching records at 10-1. Junior Mark Gugel had a 4-2 mark for the day. 
Although the sabre team had a composite 37-8 record for the weekend, five of those losses came in the loss to Ohio State. Sophomore sabremen Leszek 
BC 
continued from page 12 
the ball, penetrate and play 
hard man-to-man. The other 
players complement him." 
Other probable Boston Col­lege starters include sopho­more Doug Able (7.9 points per game, 5.1 rebounds per game), sophomore center Corey Beas­ley (6.9, 4.4) and freshman guard Bryan Edwards (5.8, 1.8). 
Dobbs thinks much of Boston College's problems have come from an inability to match up with teams inside. He knows that might cause problems against Notre Dame (14-4), which leads the country in rebound margin. 
"The thing I'm most im­pressed about is the way (Notre Dame) rebounds, their tenacity on the glass," said Dobbs. "They play very hard, and if there are any mistakes, they make up for them with their rebounding." 
IRISH ITEMS-Jamere Jack­son, who missed the USC game with back spasms, is on day-to­day status. Tim Singleton has a thigh contusion and did not practice Monday. 
Nowosielski went 10-0 to ac­cumulate his season record to a perfect 18-0. Senior Geoff Rossi was 7-2 and sophomore David Kirby had but a single loss ( 6-1). The freshman combo of Ed Baguer (9-3) and Henry Chou (5-2) had respectable days. 
The women's squad experi­enced a similar scenario, with an overall 64-16 mark but nine of those losses to Ohio State 
Senior captain Janice Hynes set the pace with a 15-3 mark, while classmate Stephanie McNeill had an execllent day at 11-1. Freshman Heidi Piper (14-3), sophomore Lynn Kadri (9-3), and seniors Kristin Kralicek (9-3) and Brenda Leiser (6-3) all contributed to the Irish cause with fine finishes. 

Remember These? 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla.--Oklahoma Coach Billy Tubbs is happy to be No. 1 in the nation--again. 
"We'd like to stay there," Tubbs said Monday after learn­ing his Sooners had taken over the top spot in The Associated Press college basketball poll again. "But we're not going to get into the hype of the thing. We've experienced it before, so now maybe we can do better." 
Oklahoma was ranked No. 1 two weeks ago for the first time in the school's history. But the Sooners lost to intrastate rival Oklahoma State and fell to fifth in last week's poll. 
Oklahoma moved back to No. 1 this week after defeating No. 3 Missouri and Arizona, last week's No. 1 team. 
Tubbs noted after Sunday's 82-80 victory over Arizona that the No. 1 team has had to im­mediately go out and play tough road games. The Sooners are no different. 
"This week we've got Kansas and Colorado on the road," Tubbs said. "I think there should be some kind of clause that if you get to be No. 1, you can change your schedule so you don't have to play on the road for at least two weeks," he joked. 

Arizona, Missouri, Geor­getown, Illinois, Syracuse, Florida State, North Carolina, Indiana and Louisville rounded out the Top Ten. 
Duke, 17-4, led the Second Ten with 641 points that in­cluded the final first-place vote. The Blue Devils were fol­lowed by Seton Hall, Michigan, West Virginia, Iowa, Ohio State, Stanford, Nevada-Las Vegas, North Carolina State and Louisiana State. 
Louisiana State, 17-6, is the only new member of the poll as the Tigers replaced No. 20 Georgia Tech. 
Georgetown 61, Syracuse 54 
LANDOVER, Md.--Charles 


~fi~~~~,~~~ 
at notre Dame February 2'1-25 
Four Events to Warm-Up Winter 
:; 

Sponsored bg Student Union Board 



Get Involved In These! 
Appljcatjoos avail for 89-9Q·SIJB oo~jtjoos 
Eiec Committee Due Feb. 22 Commissioners due March 1 
Smith scored 16 points and keyed a second-half surge that enabled fourth-ranked Geor­getown to solidify its hold on first place in the Big East Con­ference Monday night with a 61­54 victory over No.6 Syracuse. 
Smith scored five points in a 13-:J: run at the start of the second half that gave the Hoyas a 41-33 lead. Syracuse, which had a seven-game winning streak snapped, never got closer than four the rest of the way. The Orangemen are 0-9 at the Capital Centre. 
After a layup by Syracuse guard Sherman Douglas cut the lead to 53-49, Smith made a 1'1-foot jumper to make it 55­
49. Moments later he hit a breakaway layup to give Geor­getown a 58-50 lead with 1 : 21 left. 
The victory enabled the Hoyas, 19-3 overall and 9-2 in the conference, to move two games in front of second-place Seton Hall in the Big East. Syracuse, 21-5 and 7-5, fell into third place. 


Tuesday, February 14, 1989 
CAMPUS 
3:00 p.m. Tennis vs. Illinois, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
3:30 p.m. Chemical Engineering seminar "Nanophase Ma­terials: A New Frontier ·for Chemical Engineering," by Ronald Andres, Purdue University, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 
4:00 p.m. Peace Institute lecture "The New Soviet Thinking on Foreign Policy," by Matthew Evangelista, University of Michigan, Room 101 Law School. 
4:30 p.m. Biology seminar "Habitat Structure and Food Web Interactions in Aquatic Communities," by Mathew Liebold, Duke University, Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
7:00 
p.m. SMC Diversity films "Managing Differ­ences-Diversity at WorlvCommunicating Across Cultures," Carroll Auditorium. 

7:00 
p.m. Film "Chronicle of Anna Magdalena Bach," An­nenberg Auditorium. 


8:00 
p.m. Basketball vs. Boston College, Joyce ACC. 

8:00 
p.m. Theology lecture "Religion and Politics in Post Colonial Africa," by Achille Mbembe, Hesburgh LibraryAuditorium. 


9:00p.m. Film "Earth," Annenberg Auditorium. 

DINNER MENUS . 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Thin Steak Sandwich Valentine's Dinner: Veal Parmesan Roast Beef Roast Turkey Chicken Breast Broccoli Caserole Baked Cod 

COMICS 
Bloom County 
The Observer page 11 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 
1 Mountain sound 5 Lemony flavor 9 Speedy 
14 Shortly 15 Solo in 19 
Across 16 Keep away from 17 Ibis's kin 19 Massenet work 20 Houston fly 
catcher
-
21 Far from altruistic 23 OkayI 
24 Giant Mel 26 Canadian capital 
29 Breathing a1ds 50 Penn, e.g. 51--Baba 54 Tested for a fit 57 Claw 59 Phrase of 
wisdom 61 Lincoln's topper 63 Flower segment 64 Quote 65 "Be it-so 
66 Indication 67 Ella's specialty 68 Musical stop 
DOWN 1 School project 2 Thicket 3 Hollers' companions 4--about (date-setting phrase) 5 Check 

13 Hideaway 33 Actress Braga of 49 Ceremonial sGrain 
18 Nary a soul "Moon Over instrument 
appendage Parador'' 51 Animated
22 Warehouse 7 Locale of a 34 Ruler 52 Davey of
vehicle Christie book 36 Eyeball baseball
25 Mack's 37 Actor in "Waiting 53 Motionless
8 Nerve nickname for Godot" 55 Mil. awards
9 Sends in 27 Walks wetly 39 Top: Comb. 56 Of one's heanngpayment · 28 Church form 58 Rich Little, e.g 
10 Nautical shout projection 44 Roof covering 59 Quick to learn 29 "-Ia Douce"
11 Texas region 46 Out-of-the-way 60"-­30 Toil
12 Berlin's "What' II 47 "A House-Rosenkavaller" -?" 31 Old French coin Home": P Adler 62DVM 
32 Short snooze 33 Wild time 35 Half an 
antiaircraft weapon 36 Bettors' 
concerns 37 Machine for weaving 
38 River to the Indus 40 Kind of club 41 Broadway org. 42 Mil. man 43 Some resort areas 45 Rush 46 Pellet shooter 48 Produced copies 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:::+:,:.r.:=+=i 
-':-+~~ ~::::+::=+=-! 



Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Buzz Mcflatop 
t.£7~ ~ oV&.t< 5o!'{£ CF f'o#E:O llf\ln~ r:'R!DA~ 
'11([; -mI.-'1L.. J01 ~ /t)S T­
YOCJI<. MJ5t.J~ 

OLLI£/ 
;.._:..-~~ 
I tJ/P I! J.oT cF 1#Nq~NJP I W!WT
I 
10 5A;' !'1'1. f7RtK1P cF 771£/11. 
\ 

~J-~ i\ I{ 
17M!611£;s dS H:Jm=, 
Ti~ 1?J 6£1~1/P(/ 
I IVA5 AaiNG crJCf<J:ER5 r~~fo{ 11-(Y ~PIJ./4 CF'PIC££~ ANp J,:' 711Ar 
IJ' 11 a;;4f.JE, 1ft!N t£r ~E /J£, fit/ILl/./ 
\ 
No, OU.//E.. 1ft,;~1?//"t fAYf.'· II I fl.£40 11/£. Fif'li' 
I 
:£ wt/1, JV5i .{£77/N'~ 7o 
1JIA-r/ 
\ 


Cl 1980 Chronicle Featurn

~ Z.-14 Distributed by Univerul Press Syndicate 
"And that goes for Lancelot, Galahad and the rest of you guys .... No more stickin' your gum under the table." 



Applications for SUB Comedy Zone 
Executive Committee 
Taylor Mason comes to NO 
& Comedian, musician and 
Commissioners ventriliquist all rolled 
can be picked up 2nd floor up in one 
LaFortune, Due Feb. 22 Feb. 16th, 9:00pm 
Theodore's --FREE 
SUB Open House 
Wed. the 15th at 6:30pm SUB office 

.. 








Sports 
Tuesday, February 14, 1989 

Flightless Eagles look to upset Irish 
By STEVE MEGARGEE of the Eagles "catching" a Assistant Sports Editor team off-stride. Senior Dana Barros led the Southern California came Eagles to that victory with a 
into the Joyce ACC on an 11-career·high 43 points. The 5-11 game losing skid and left Notre point guard leads Boston Col­Dame with an 83-74 defeat and lege with a 22.7 scoring average . its streak intact. and is shooting 77-of-181 (43 
Boston College, which faces percent) from three-point the Irish 8 tonight at the JACC, range. is not in quite as desperate a "Barros is as good as any situation as USC. But it's pretty guard in the country," said darned close. Phelps. "He's got the size and 
The Eagles have lost eight quickness of (former SMU games in a row, with all those guard Kato) Armstrong and losses coming to Big East com­the scoring ability of (Temple's petition. The slide has given Mark) Macon. Boston College (1-9 in the Big "You can't let him dominate East, 8-12 overall) residency in a game." the conference cellar. Barros is one of only two 
While the Eagles haven't ex­Eagles scoring in double fig­actly flown atop the conference ures this season. The other is standings this year, Notre senior Steve Benton, a 6-5 for­Dame coach Digger Phelps ward who averages 14.5 points remains cautious. per game. 
"You can't take them light­"Dana Barros means every­ly," said Phelps. "They have thing to our team," said Frank good personnel who can get Dobbs, an assistant on Boston things going. They're one of College coach Jim O'Brien's those teams that can catch staff. "He does a little bit of you." everything. 
Phelps need only point out "We ask him to score, pass
Joe Fredrick (3) hangs in the lane amidst three 

BC's 95-83 upset victory over
Duke defenders earlier this season. Fredrick and see BC, page 10
Pitt last month as an example 
Both NO fencing teams take surprising weekend losses 
The Observer I Eric Bailey the Irish battle Boston College tonight at the JACC. Steve Megargee has a preview at right. 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
As with just about any kind of model, sometimes the model breaks down. 
This past weekend the Notre Dame fencing teams' model~ of consistency broke down--to an extent--as both the women and the men's sabre team suffered losses at the hands of Ohio State. 
"Obviously, I think that the disappointments of the weekend were the men's sabre versus Ohio State and the wo­men's loss as well," said Irish head coach Michael DeCicco. "Ohio State won those bouts be­cause they wanted it more than we did." 
However, not all news is bad news. 
The Irish handily destroyed teams from Case Western Reserve, Northwestern, Cal­State Long Beach, and the wo­men's squad from Vanderbilt. 
In addition, the St. Mary's team under coach Mike ,Marx improved further on last week's finish, beating Vander­bilt (9-7) and Case Western Reserve (12-4). The Belles went 2-1 on the day with a loss to a strong Cal-State Long Beach team. They were led by senior captain Lisa LaVelle, along with junior Bryn Haugh. Freshmen Laura Curtin, Leigh Voyt and Laura Kouri contin­ued to show improvement in their first year of competition. 

"Their level of fencing has doubled each meet," said Marx. "I'm really impressed. It's exciting to see that they un­derstand how to compete against much stronger teams. This weekend they really turned it around in beating Vanderbilt and CWU." 
Irish coach DeCicco also had his share of pleasant surprises. 

"One surprise this weekend was that NU was not the team that I expected, "said DeCicco. ''They did not fence as competi­tively as I thought they would against our team. And since they just missed beating Illi­nois earlier this year, that means that Illinois is well within our reach." 
All the same, losing is a rather obscure phenomenon for these Irish fencers. The losses marked the first such setbacks since last season. 
"The loss in sabre had noth­ing to do with the personnel," said DeCicco. "The coaches lost that meet, not the fencers. It isn't fair for the team to have a stigma that we lost when they shouldn't have." 
Nevertheless, the weekend on the whole must be looked at in a positive light. Leading the way once again for the men's foil machine was Derek A (Skitz} Holeman. Skitz cleaned up on all comets as he upped his record to 19-0 on the season. All-American Yehuda Kovacs (9-0), junior captain Joel Clark (6-0), sophomore Phil Leary ( 4­
seE! FENCING, page 10 


' . 

Once a Cub Fan, always a Cub Fan --bu1t why? 
Hi, my name is Jeff and I'm a . .. (Pause) I'm a ... I'm a Cub Fan. 
The preceding is a typical scene at Underac­hievers Anonymous, the organization that helps Cub Fans admit they have a problem. Face it: Cub Fans, and I count myself among the multitudes, have a problem. 
Can somebody give a logical reason as to why anyone would continue to support a team to within an inch of his or her life, even though they haven't been in the World Series since 1945? 
But as any Cub Fan will tell you, that doesn't matter. Nor does the fact that they haven't won the Fall Classic since 1908. 
No, what matters is finishing ahead of the St. Louis Birds. You have to admit, the most exciting race in the National League last season was for fourth place in the East, which was not decided until the Cubs won and the Cardinals lost on the last day of the season. 
The sad, sad truth is that Cub Fans accept this as one of the more successful seasons in the recent past. This is a problem. 
Now is the happiest time of year for Cub Fans. In fact, this should be the only time of year the faithful can be happy. The season hasn't started yet, spring training hasn't started yet, and, at least in February, no one can turn on the TV and see the Cubs lose. Again. And again. 
But the Cubs management hasn't let the fans for­get their misery. In the offseason, they make trades. 

The Cubs organization is continuing its reputation as a team to look tp when you want to make a trade. The Cubs will give you their starting outfield and a promising young pitcher in return for two 28-year old minor league middle-relief specialists (a.k.a. can't start, can't finish) and the always hot-hitting player to be named later. 
The Cubs traded former catcher-rightfielder-first baseman-clutch hitter Keith Moreland for former good reliever Goose Gossage. Then they traded bul­lpen ace Lee Smith, who had earned at least 20 
·Theresa Kelly 
Assistant Sports Editor 

saves for the Cubs every year throughout the 1980s, for Calvin Schiraldi and AI Nipper. 
They also sent off Dennis Eckersley, who as a starter was over-the-hill in Cubdom but as a reliever led Oakland to the World Series. 
Anyway, Schiraldi's job was to help Gossage in late relief. So the Cubs were set in late relief with the Goose and Schiraldi, right? 
Wrong. This offseason the Cubs sent young, .300­plus hitting leftfielder Rafael Palmiero to Texas for another short reliever. Does anybody remember the Lou Brock-for-Ernie Broglio deal? 
The current rumors have the ever wheeling-and­dealing management getting rid of aging, un­productive players like All-Star, Golden Glove, MVP winning second baseman Ryne Sandberg and All-Star, Cy Young Award winner Rick Sutcliffe. If you had to name any players on the team that were good, you'd pick those two. So trade them. 
The Cubs weren't even fun to watch last season. In the game I made it to, the Atlanta Braves (another team headed for the top) scored on a sacrifice fly in the first inning and won the game 1-0. Somehow, though, each team used four pitchers and the game took three hours. 
My companions were more interested in the man a few rows in front of us whose pants were too loose and kept sliding down whenever he stood up, crack­ing everyone up. 
But Cub Fans come back to Wrigley Field. They'll cheer whoever happens to put on the pinstripes. It doesn't matter if they've traded away an All-Star team full of talent and can't get out of the second division. Cub fans watch every game on WGN, remembering back to the recent glories of the Cubs­-1969 (but look what happem~d) and 1984 (at least until the last three games of the League Champi­onship Series). 
But for Cub Fans, next year is this year, at least until July or August. For us, the team looks better than ever, and is a sure shot to finish on top this year. For us, hope springs and early summers eter­nal. 
You have to wonder why. 
·­






