----~-----~---~----~---~---­
/ACCENT: Gong Show 'In&-:'81 ~:!~.:·~:.....y. 
::1V==I=E==W===P=O===I=N~T=:===A===w==e=t==d==i=v=e==r=s==io==n===i=n==a==e==r=o=b==i=c=s====:l '-====-.;....._~~:_ 9~-~e_;i_r:_~:_i~~-!~_s____.
0~-~~-i:1_!
_e 




144 feared dead in Azores crash 
Associated Press Figueredo, the mayor of the fis­hing village of Santa Barbara 
LISBON, Portugal--A U.S. near the airport. charter jet carrying Italian "There was a tremendous ex­vacationers to the Caribbean plosion. The plane burst into crashed into a mountain in the flames and trees around it Azores while trying to land in caught fire. Nobody could pos­fog on Wednesday. All 144 sibly have survived," Vairos people on board were feared Figueredo said in a telephone killed. interview with The Associated 
The Boeing 707, with a seven­Press. member American crew, was LUSA reported more than 50 approaching Santa Maria air­bodies had been recovered by port on the Atlantic island nighfall. Heavy fog and diffi­chain when it hit 1,794-foot Pico cult access to the crash site Alto and burst into flames, said hampered rescue workers. Monso Pimentel, a reporter in The jet belonged to the U.S. the Azores for Portugal's LUSA airline Independent Air Corp., news agency. based in Smyrna, Tenn., which 
"The plane was very low, said it was bound from Ber­everything seemed perfectly gamo, Italy, to the Dominican normal, then it turned and flew Republic and then to Jamaica. straight into the mountain," said witness Manuel see CRASH, page 4 
Vote on Tower delayed due to FBI investigation 
Associated Press Sam Nunn, D-Ga., the Armed procurement scandal, the 'Ill wrongdoing by Tower and "Have I seen anything, or Services Committee chairman. Wind' thing," said McCain, noted that politicians can't con­has anything in the FBI report 
WASHINGTON--Senators He told reporters he could not using the Justice Department trol who gives money to their made me want to change mysaid Wednesday a first vote on vote to confirm Tower until the name for the investigation. campaigns. mind as one who would be con­John Tower's nomination as latest charges were checked, Tower has denied trading cerned about insobriety or defense secretary will be and said he had informed Bush An administration official secrets for cash. But Nunn and about failure to be ready for delayed nearly two weeks of that. said the FBI background in­other senators have voiced con­duty 24 hours a day? The an­while the FBI reviews allega­quiry focused on contributions cern whether Tower could swer is, 'No, I have not.' tions about his finances and Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., to one of Tower's senate cam­avoid conflicts of interests in drinking. said new allegations linked paigns by a contractor now un­view of the more than $1 million "If somebody has something 
Tower to the Pentagon der investigation in the Pent­he received as a consultant for other than rumor and frenzied 
President Bush stood by procurement investigation, agon procurement fraud major defense contractors speculation, please get it to the Tower and denounced "rumor which has involved payments investigation. after ending a 24-year career FBI or get it to the White House and frenzied speculation." by defense contractors for clas­in the Senate four years ago. staff, or certainly get it to the 
"There are new allegations sified information regarding But the official, speaking on Bush told reporters at the committee in the Senate. But of a financial nature which are lucrative military contracts. condition of anonymity, em­White House he had seen no let us be fair enough that we do now being checked in the phasized that the FBI had evidence causing him to lose Tower nomination," said Sen. "It has to do with this found no evidence of illegal confidence in his nominee. see TOWER, page 4 

University crackdown results in confiscation of unlicensed goods 
By MATT GALLAGHER other trademarks, Garrison received warning in any form Senior Staff Reporter said. that we (Umbrella Graphics) 
"They practically burst were in violation of any Univer­

A local T-shirt business through the front door," Gar­sity policy.'' received a harsh lesson in rison said. "They were very Umbrella Graphics "never Notre Dame's trademark rude. They didn't even allow us had anything but a good rap­licensing policy as the Univer­to take an inventory of the stuff port with Notre Dame before sity brought legal action (that was seized)." this," Garrison said. against the firm in mid­Carol Kaesebier, assistant Garrison said that his firm January. general counsel to the Univer­had previously filled orders 
The subject of the Univer­sity, said that the action was from various campus organiza­sity's action was Umbrella taken to protect Notre Dame tions, including Non-VarsityGraphics, a Mishawaka retail trademarks. Athletics, the Bookstore, the store. "Umbrella Graphics was Department of 
On Jan. 13, University offi­selling and producing un­Communications and Theatre, cials, accompanied by two licensed products in fairly and various other student or­police officers and an attorney, large quantities," Kaesebier ganizations, University organ­entered the store with a court said. "There was one instance izations, and individuals. order to seize unlicensed prod­in which we saw an invoice for Garrison and his partner, ucts bearing the Notre Dame $14,000 in unlicensed prod­Collette Ceuterick, formed trademark, said Todd Gar­ucts." Umbrella Graphics several rison, a partner in Umbrella Kaesebier said the Univer­years ago. "Our purpose is to Graphics. sity had previously contacted take student designs and put
The representatives of the Umbrella Graphics and asked them on quality T-shirts ... We University proceeded to seize them to discontinue manufac­provide a creative outlet for Umbrella Graphic's stock ofT­turing unlicensed products. students. The Bookstore shirts bearing the ND logo, the However, Garrison said that words "Notre Dame," and Umbrella Graphics "never see LICENSE, page 5 
New faculty evaluation forms introduced 
By REGIS COCCIA completed forms is Friday, Senior Staff Reporter. Feb. 16. Students may drop them in dorm collection 
Students wishing to rate · boxes or campus mail, she their professors' classroom said. performance will get that Student government, with chance this week thanks to the help of the Social Science student government's Fac­Training and Research Lab, ulty Course Evaluation proj­will publish the evaluation ect, project commissioner results in a book shortlyJennifer Salmon said before advance registration Wednesday. in April, said Salmon, a 
"This is a student service sophomore.designed to supplement the Freshmen were not given course catalog to help them forms because they are un­take the classes they're in­able to choose professorsterested in," she said, add­during their first year, Sal­ing this evaluation is sepa­mon said. rate from the Teacher Course Evaluations con­A similar project was ducted by academic depart­launched about 10 years ago ments. tl!at evaluated specific 
All on-campus sop-courses, not faculty mem­homores, juniors and bers, she said. The results of seniors should receive a the FCE are professor­computerized FCE form specific and can carry over today, Salmon said. The deadline for submitting· the see FCE, page 5 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, February 9, 1989 
INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 
South Bend was the fgcus of national attention Wednesday as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and a citizens' group moved to block federal court testimony of a witness called by the management of a ~azardous waste landfill. The witness, Dr. Suellen 
W. P~ag~s of a Washin~on landfill lobbying orgamzabon, would testify about the nation's future needs for hazardous waste landfills. The EPA and the citize~s group, calling itself Supporters To Oppose ~ollubon, or STOP, said Pirages' testimony would be Irrelevant. Attorneys representing Environmental Waste Management said her testimony is necessary to show that the Four County Landfill, a hazardous waste site in Fulton County, should continue in operation. The EPA and STOP have sued the the landfill management in an effort to shut down the operation. -Associated Press 
A bathroom ritual involving three students burning candles in a school restroom prompted the principal to suspend the students and call the police. "We're not sure if this is an isolated case or if it's something we should be worried about," said Burr Oak (Mich.) Junior-Senior High School Principal Robert Peters. "We don't know if the girls were just experimenting with something or trying something that they learned from someone else." Three junior high school students were "discovered conducting some type of ritual or seance" as they burned candles on sinks and toilets in a school bathroom on Jan. 28, Peters said Tuesday. -Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
VisitationforCapt.JosephNelliswillbeattheWelsheimer Funeral Home on Cleveland Road today from 7:30 to 9 
p.m. Services will be held in Sacred Heart Church at 10 
a.m. Friday, followed by burial in Cedar Grove Cemetary. 
-The Observer 
Help is still needed for the 1989 Fashion Show. If interested, please call Laurenteen Morris at 283-4968. -The Observer 
Volunteers for the Homeless Center are invited to attend a mandatory organizational meeting today at 
6:30 p.m. in the Grace Hall pit. Ifyou cannot attend, please call Kelly at 283-2812 or Steve at 283-1729. -The Observer 
A special contest will be held for all students who would like to join the Model UN team going to Washington 
D.C. It will be held today from 7 to 9:30p.m., Room 124 Hayes-Healy. Call Matt at 283-1542 for more information. 
-The Observer 
Eating Disorder Survey Today at 6:30p.m. in Badin Hall. Members of the University Counseling Center Staff will present the results of the Notre Dame Eating Disorder Survey conducted on campus last spring. -The Observer 
Basketball tickets are needed for children who live at the Family and Children's Center. If you can donate your tickets to the USC game this Saturday, please bring them to the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Celebrate Black history with an ol' fashioned southern-style meal at the dining halls. -The Observer 
Fiesta Bowl ticket refunds that were requested prior to Christmas break may be picked up in person at the second floor ticket office in the Joyce ACC between 8-12 noon and 1-5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Each per­son must present his or her own ID card. -The Observer 


Design EditOT ................... Allison Cocks Viewpoint Layout ..... ........... Moira Fo:c Design Assistant ............. Janice O'Leary Accent Editor ............ Trisha Chambers Typesetters ...... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger ........................................... Andy Schlidt Accent Designer... .. Bernadette Shilts News Editor............. . ..... Sara Marley Typist........ . ... Will Zamer Copy Editor .................. Christine Walsh ........................................ Diana Bradley Sports Copy EditOT ......... Molly Mahoney NO Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey Viewpoint Copy EditOT .......... Kim Skill's SMC Day Editor .......... Rozel Gatmaitan 
ne ~(USPS '99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina cum &Del v~eatioa periods. ne ~is published by the studenu of the Univcnity of Nacre Dame &Del Saint Mary's CoiJeae. Subscriptioas may be purcbu­.t for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writina ne ~-. P.0. Boll. Q, Nacre Dulle, Jllltiula 46,6. 
ne u...-is. --orne "-da... rn.. All reproduction ripu are 



Winter in South Bend is a chi IIi ng experience 
If I had any sense, and any sort of funds, I would be in the Bahamas right now. -...any place but South Bend--especially in mid-February. 
O.K., I admit it-the snow sure was pretty while I was walking home Friday night and then when I woke up on Saturday morning. It even proved to be a pleasant diversion while I was pretending to study later that afternoon. 
But by Sunday, let's face it, it was getting old--and fast. 
When I first visited Notre Dame, the tour guide must have inadvertently left out the fact that I was visiting on one of the 10 sunny days of the year, and that temps in the sub-zero range in February were the rule rather than the ex­ception. 
There's something very wrong when you wake up in the morning and are tempted to cut classes, not because you didn't finish a philos­ophy paper, but because it's too cold to treck all the way from P.W. to the ROTC Building under blizzard conditions with a wind chill fac­tor of 20 below. 
And for those of us who are intrepid enough to actually brave the elements in the never­endi.ng quest for truth and knowledge, we must suffer with eternally runny noses, coughs, sore throats, and sore muscles (from taking all those tense little baby steps in an attempt to prevent ourselves from slipping on those oh-so-well­paved walkways). 
Ah. .. winter in South Bend. 
You may think, "Sure this week is bad, but it certainly won't last." 
Don't bet on it. Permafrost tends to hang around a little while longer--just a little. Think of the prospects: If this cruel lashing of Arctic air keeps up, we might be able to enjoy this lovely snow and ice well into April and May. Ice fishing could replace basketball and hockey as winter spectator sports on campus. 
We would be able to study for spring finals because we wouldn't be tempted to sunbathe. And wouldn't the University be happy with all those 4.0's? They may even decide to declare an ''academic winter,'' stretching from late Au­gust to early May. Of course they wouldn't need to consult with the student body first, after all, it's "for our own good." The possibilities are endless. 
Just nothing like those winters in South Bend. 
'Tis the season when newspapers and magazines are jam-packed with advertise­ments, and the radio and television provide a sensory onslaught of pursuasive jingles and ex­otic film clips in a mass attempt to convince 

ACROSS THE FT<OZ.e.H "iU/tiC>~A: 
'(HE FDR.T P. W. TO PoR.i' R.OT'c.. TR-4 II... SY J.AC.I' L...ONDON 
us that we really can't deal with the North anymore, and NEED to head off to South Padre, the Cayman Isles, or Ft. Lauderdale. 
Picture yourself right now, lounging on the beach, margarita in hand, the sun beating down turning your skin a deep bronze. Volleyball to the left of you, sand castles to your right, and there you are--no goal in life but to look cool in your mirrored shades, and finish your drink before it melts. 
What a deal. And it's only $199 away... 
Love those South Bend winters. 
Creature comforts, such as being moderately warm, are for the weak. Real men and women can take whatever Mother Nature can dish out. They not only can withstand the cold, they love it. 
A number of my friends are Colorado-bound for spring break. They think it's fun to spend two days in a car, and then another four freezing to death on top of a snow-covered mountain, risking life and limb in the name of sport. They are a bunch of "those cold-weather types." 
Well, I'm not. 
Snow is fine if it's Saturday night and I've got nothing better to do than sit in front of my fireplace with my cat and some hot cocoa. 
But let's face it, this is the real world. My Amex is overdrawn, my car is in New York, and there are no mountains around the 'Bend. 



===Ihe=-ObSet:Ver-_--= 
Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
News Editor Viewpoint Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Art Director Ad Design Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager Controller OTS Director 
A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Chris Donnelly by 5 p.m. Friday, February 10. 
Applications are still being accepted for the following position. No publication experience is necessary. 
Business Manager 
A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Chris Donnelly by 3 p.m. Tuesday, February 14. 
---~
--------~­
Thursday, February 9, 1989 The Observer page 3 

Speaker focuses on working women 
By RON SEVERINO 
News Staff 
The issue of women in the 
workplace and its effects on 
men was discussed Wednesday 
in a gender studies lecture by 
Heidi Hartmann, director of 
the Institute for Women's 
Policy Research in Washing­
ton, D.C. 
The lecture, part of a series 
sponsored by the economics 
and sociology departments, 
focused on women's rise in the 
workplace and the problems 
that must be solved to bring 
about a more equal status be­
tween men and women at home 
as well as in in the workplace. 
Hartmann began by citing 
reasons as to why women are 
becoming "more and more au­
tonomous today than in years 
past." 
The most obvious reason, she 
said, was because of economic 
necessity, as the average real 
income of men (inflation­
adjusted) has fallen steadily 
over the last 10 to 20 years. 
A second reason she gave 
was women's new self­
sufficiency. "Women want 
more control of their economic 
destiny," said Hartmann. 
More women now must sup­
port themselves and their families due to the rising divorce rate, and many young -women live independently for some years, according to 
Hartmann. 
Thirdly, Hartmann said, as a 
result of the American eco­
nomy, more jobs have opened up for women, especially in white-collar fields. 
Hartmann said the main 
problem still lies in the dis­
crepancy of incomes between 
men and women. 
The average income of all full-time working women is presently just 65 percent of the average income of all full-time male workers. The reason for this is not because men are paid more than women for the same occupation, but because women occupy more lower­salaried, non-managerial type jobs than men. 
The solution that Hartmann strongly embraces is compara­ble worth, whereby salaries would be determined not by the basic principles of supply and demand, but by the skill and effort required by a given job gauged against other jobs. 
Hartmann believes new legislation such as comparable worth and affirmative ac­tion-equal opportunity employ­ment are necessary in achiev­ing equality in the workplace. However, she said, "There was very little effort on the part of the Reagan Administration to assist women in the economy." 
Hartmann then turned to the problem of child care and working mothers. 
Fifty percent of all women return to the workforce within a year of giving birth to a child, according to Hartmann. Hartmann said the problem lies mainly in men's failure to pick up the slack of household duties as women take on more 


Act of disobedience 
AP Photo A British constable stops a nun from writing peace obedience campaign and anti-nuclear demonstration slogans on the wall of the Ministry of Defense in Demonstrators marked Ash Wednesday with prayers London, Wednesday, during a national civil dis-outside the ministry. 
responsibilities in the workplace. 
One statistic showed that married men work on average about seven hours a week at home, while married women work 25-45 hours a week at home. 
A solution to the child care issue, according to Hartmann, would be to pass new legisla­tion such as the Act for Better Child Care, which would appro­priate $2.1 billion to public health care. Hartmann said she supports "the public education of men regarding household re-assistant professor of econom­sponsibilities," which brought ics and organizer of the lecture a definite rise of laughter from series. the gentlemen in the auditorium. 
To have a feminist such as 
this one come to Notre Dame 
The lecture was the second was a difficult task, because of in a series of lectures entitled the patriarchal nature of the "New Directions in Gender University, according to Studies." "Gender studies Ghilarducci. "The popularity, takes the veil off of human con­the stature, of Notre Dame sciousness and brings forward male athletes makes the gap this issue that has been between men and women here repressed, so that it can be dis­even larger," said Ghilarducci, cussed at universities like "and adds to its patriarchal na­this," said Teresa Ghilarducci, ture." 

--~-~-----~-~-­

page 4 The Observer Thursday, February 9, 1989 

Memorial scholarship established for alumnus killed in Pan Am crash 
By LAURA DOWNS  sums  of  donations  made  by  Bainbridge spent a year in each  
News Staff  family and friends. In addition,  of  these  programs  while  at  
A scholarship fund for law  Pepsico has donated a substan­ Notre Dame.  
and  undergraduate  students  tial  gift  in  the  name  of  By placing the funds in an en­ 
studying abroad has been es­ Bainbridge.  dowment, it will be possible to  
tablished in memory of Harry  "It would not be appropriate  name  a  new  Bainbridge  
Bainbridge, who received both  at this time to speak in terms  scholar each year rather than  
his  undergraduate  and  law  of dollars and cents, as the sum  exhaust the entire sum at once.  
degrees from Notre Dame.  is still fluid,"  said Assistant  The particulars of this schol­ 
Bainbridge died in the Pan  Dean William McLean of the  arship fund are not yet set and  
Am 105 airline crash over Scot­ Law School.  the  eligibility  requirements  
land on December 23, 1988.  McLean explained that the  and  application  procedure  
The scholarship has been set  money will be placed in an en­ have yet to be determined.  
up by the Bainbridge family,  dowment,  the  interest  from  Bainbridge graduated from  
friends of the family, and Pep­ which will go  to  scholarship  the University in 1976 with a  
sico  Inc.,  where  Bainbridge  support for a graduate law stu­ B.A.  in  government.  He  
was employed as corporate at­ dent in the London Law pro­ received his law degree in 1980.  
torney.  gram or an undergraduate in  Bainbridge is survived by his  
Pepsico  has  matched  the  the Angers Program in France.  wife Dona.  



Tower 
continued from page 1 

not deal in rumor after rumor,'' Bush said. 
Meanwhile, White House counsel and chief ethics ad­viser C. Boyden Gray pre­sented the FBI report to Nunn and Sen. John Warner of Vir­gmta, the Senate panel's ranking Republican. The White House said it was "standard practice" for the White House counsel's office to "carry such reports to the hill." 
But it also appeared to be a move to appease Nunn, who on Tuesday had expressed irrita­tion that the White House had briefed committee Republicans and not him. 
The administration had been pushing for a vote this week, but dropped that after Nunn and Warner met with Bush Tuesday night. 
"I told the president frankly that I have serious concerns, and I also stated that if a vote was held immediately as some have urged, I would vote no be­cause of these concerns," Nunn told reporters. The second­ranking Democract on the committee, Sen. James Exon of Nebraska, also said he could not vote in favor of Tower until the FBI completes its investi­gation. 
At the White House, press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said the main new allegation "relates to Senator Tower's ac­tivities while he was in the Sen­ate." 

Crash 
continued from page 1 
It had been chartered by the Dominican firm Dominair by a consortium of six Italian travel agencies. 
Portuguese TV said an anonymous caller to the newsroom claimed responsibil­ity for the crash on behalf of an organization called the Brigada Terrorista Interna­tional (International Terrorist Brigade). 
Police said they knew of no group by that name and suspected the claim was a hoax. 
Witnesses said jetliner's wreckage still burned on Pico Alto five hours after the crash. 
LUSA said the first alarm of the crash was given by a resi­dent of Santa Barbara. 
The pilot radioed Santa Maria Airport control tower three minutes before the crash but did not report anything wrong, LUSA quoted an uni-

PREGNANI MOTHERS: 
PLWE DON'T SMOKE! 
+AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY" 

dentified civil aviation official as saying. 
The agency said the control tower then tried repeatedly to contact the plane without suc­cess. 
Earlier unconfirmed reports said the pilot had requested a runway be cleared for an emer­gency landing. 
The jet was scheduled to make a refueling stop in the Azores, a chain of islands west of Portugal. Santa Maria is about 750 miles west of Por­tugal. 
The U.S. federal Aviation Ad­ministration reported fog in the area with visibility of five miles below 500 feet and scattered clouds at 500 feet. 
The passengers were "middle-income Italians flying to a sun resort with great beaches" on a package put to­gether by Flamingo Tours of Bergamo, said A. Pittman, president of Independent Air in Smyrna, Ga. 
Independent Air is 15 years old and flies 400-500 charters 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS 

Counselors:  21 +,  coed,  
sleepaway  camp,  Mass.  
Berksi1ires.  WSI,  arts  &  

crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, drama, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, judo, dance, photography, computers, nature, wi~lderness, model rocketry, guitar, yearbook, woodworking, RN, typist, Write: Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Rd, Eastsnester, NY 1 0707 or call 914/779-9406 
Adworks is presently accepting applications for the position of 
Vice-President of Dally Operations. Anyone interested may pick up 
an :pplication in the Office of Student Activities. Completed applications should be returned to Adworks by Wednesday, Feb. 15. 
ADWORKS 

per year, mostly in the Carib­bean and Europe. 
The craft was one of two Boeing 707s owned by Indepen­dent Air, Pittman said. He said it had 12,500 cycles, or takeoffs and landings, and fewer than 50,000 hours in the air. 
Jack Barker, a spokesman for the FAA, said that was not excessive. 
"If properly maintained, there should not be a problem because of hours or number of cycles," he said. "Other aircraft involved in the news have had as much as 50,000 cycles, a great many more." 
The Observer 
CATHOLIC FAITH SERIES 
CHRISTIAN ETHICS -PREPARING 
TO BE CHRISTIAN IN THE WORLD 
OF WORK Can you live as a Christian in today's competitive business environment? Is it possible to keep a Christian ethical code in a fast-track career? Can you be both a Christian and a professional? 
FR. DREW CHRISTIANSEN, 
S.J., 

Associate Professor of Social Eth1cs. 
Department of Theology and a staff 
fellow of the Institute for International 
Peace Studies, will offer suggest1ons 
on how one can live by Christian 
rrinciples in thP. work world. He will 
talk about cl10osing a career, findmg 
support groups, rais1ng eth1cal 
questions and dealing with pe~all1es 
for non-conformity. 
Sunday, February 12, and Tuesday 
February 14, Keenan Chapel, 7-8 30 
p.m. 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry -239-5242 , S1ster Mary Curran, CSC

L-------------------------------------­
DOWNHILL SKI TRIP RESCHEDULED 

l
~........................t___________ ~ 
~ 





12:00 p.m. Workshop with Stuart Dybek in the Library Lounge 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
10:00 a.m. 
11:00 a.m. 
8:00 p.m. 
11:00 a.m. 
8:00 p.m. 

1989 SOPHOMORE LITERARY 
FESTIVAL 

Workshop with Meg Wolltzer in the Library Lounge 
Workshop with Sue Miller in the Library Lounge 
Lise1 Mueller Reading in the Library Auditorium 
Workshop with Lisel Mueller in the Library Lounge 
Stuart Dybek Reading in the Library Auditorium 
Thursday, February 9, 1989 The Observer page 5 

License 
continued from page 1 
doesn't do that, nor does some­one like Champion products," Garrison said. 
Kaesebier said that the Uni­versity filed suit against Umbrella Graphics several days before the Jan. 13 action, "seeking legal relief and dama­ges." A temporary restraining order was obtained by the Uni­versity to "stop (Umbrella Graphics) from selling (unlicensed products) until the suit is settled. It also allowed us to seize his inventory to be certain he complied (with the order)," Kaesebier said. 
Garrison said he believed that the University was just making an example of his firm. He noted that "bootleggers" came to South Bend following Notre Dame's Jan. 2 Fiesta Bowl victory "attempting to sell inferior products, out for pure profit." These venders set up on street corners around South Bend to peddle their products, Garrison said. "The University never attempted to do anything to these bootleg­gers." 
Garrison said he believes this legal action was taken against his firm in part because he was easy to locate. 
Kaesebier said the Univer­sity welcomed the publicity. "We do intend for the publicity to let people know we're serious about protecting our trademarks," Kaesebier said. She added that she believed the majority of the publicity was intentionally generated by Garrison, not by the Univer­sity. 
"The only recourse we've had has been the press, be­cause of the relative power of the two of us versus the Uni­versity. We just don't have the resources or money to take on the University," Garrison said. 
Kaesebier said the Univer­sity was currently pursuing the legal suit against Umbrella Graphics, and she could not comment on the suit until it was settled. "What we do with Mr. Garrison's stock will be deter­mined after the suit is settled." 
Garrison said he did not like 
the way the entire matter was 
handled. "We never thought we 
were doing anything wrong," 
he said. "We never had anyth­
ing but a good rapport with the 
University before this... I'm 
just bewildered by the whole 
thing." 
The University's action has affected the way Umbrella Graphics operates, Garrison said. "This cost us a lot of face," he said. "We have to wonder if we can put an 'ND' on anything anyone brings in here any more." 
"There's no way to assess the damage to our business," Gar­rison said. "It could very well cost us the business." 

Trademarks held on words, 1 symbols depicting University 
By MATT GALLAGHER Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame owns the trademark to many words and symbols related to the University, and it has developed a strict licensing policy to protect those trademarks. 
Carol Kaesebier, assistant general counsel to the Uni­versity, said Notre Dame owns the trademark to the following words and sym­bols: 
•"University 
of Notre Dame" 

•"Notre 
Dame" 

•"Fighting 
Irish" 

•The 
Leprechaun 

•The 
University Seal 

•The 
Official Class Ring 

•The 
Golden Dome and others. 


The University licenses the use of these trademarks to various manufacturers, Kaesebier said. "The majority of licenses go to manufacturers to license and sell products they produce," Kaesebier said. "The products must have that manufacturer's name on it. In other words, they can't just use a T -shirt made by Haynes, for example, and put a golden dome on it." 
Kaesebier said the Univer­sity attempts to regulate the quality of the products it al­lows to use the various trademarks. "There are no restrictions on the (licensed) products, so long 
as they have the qualities we're looking for," she said. 
The University receives a royalty of 7 112 percent of total sales of the products it licenses, Kaesebier said. 
Kaesebier said the Univer­sity makes an active at­tempt to enforce its exclu­sive trademark rights, because the rights to these trademarks can be lost if the University does not enforce them. 
In mid-January, the Uni­versity took legal action against a Mishawaka retail store, Umbrella Graphics, for violating Notre Dame's trademark rights. 
"We have also had other cases of taking legal action against retailers. Most just haven't been as publicized,'' Kaesebier said. She said that legal action had been taken against other local retailers, most recently about two years ago. 
Such legal action takes the form of a legal suit filed by the University against the alleged violator. She declined to comment on spe­cific penalties for trademark infringement. 
Student organizations operate under separate licensing arrangements, Kaesebier said. "Students are allowed to use (Notre Dame) trademarks for stu­dent organizations, so long as they go through the proper procedures with (The Office of) Student Ac­tivites," Kaesebier said. 
DuLac states a different policy, however. It states, in part, "All items (bearing a trademark) ... must be or­dered through the bookstore." 
Kaesebier said that the regular trademark policies apply to individual students selling items bearing a trademark. "They must go through the regular licens­ing procedure." 


~--============---mrn-oRAs-iiALL-========-l FCE
I sponsored by: ND Liturgical Chior . continued from page 1 
I I to succeeding semesters, but1 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10 9:00pm -1:00am Students: $a.OQ1>erson Iwill not rate faculty who have 
taught less than three years at
SOUTH DINING HALL 

$1o.ont.couple
"~ Notre Dame, she said. 
1
i featuring The evaluation form grades
1 

' N t d t $8 onn-.. ! faculty from A to F in seven
I Johnny Knorr and His Orchestra ons u ens: · "Person 1 areas: 
L___P~~~.:~-------~_::__J :~:i~~=':~~g 

WHAT'S ALL THE HUBBUB? JOIN US & SEE 
FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 10th: Associates of The Sisters of Holy Cross will be in the main lobby of LeMans Hall sharing their experiences & answering Y2.u.Lquestions about Lay Volunteer Service. 
SATURDAY. FEBRUARY 12th: 3:00-4:00 MUNCHIES & MINGLING!! with Associates serving this year in the U.S. & Mexico! Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall ALL ARE WELCOME!!! 
...................,...........~---.-.......................·.·.·.·.·,_-.-.·.-.·.···············J'tl'.................................·•·• 
Applications for 

• 
Stimulating interest in sub­ject. 

• 
Ability to encourage indepen­dent thinking. 

• 
Skill in motivating. 

• 
Fairness in dealing with stu­dents. 

• 
Comparison to other teachers at Notre Dame. 


The grades will be converted into a "teaching grade point average" on a 4.0 scale. 
Salmon, a member of student government's academic com­mission, has been working on the FCE since last August with senior Sean Hoffman, execu­tive coordinator of academics, and four faculty members from each of the University's four colleges . 

Are now availabe in the C)tudent Government Office -2nd floor Lafortune 
You will be contacted as to the time of your interview. 
-----~-----~------­
-~----~-----­
The Observer
6 


Former Nazi soldier: young Germans should bear no guilt 
Associated Press 
CHAM, West Germany--A former Nazi SS soldier who leads a growing extremist party told thousands of cheer­ing supporters Wednesday that young Germans bear no guilt for Hitler's extermination of 6 million Jews. 
Franz Schoenhuber, an SS soldier in World War II, also criticized the president of the nation's Jewish community, called for the reunification of Germany and said the European Economic Commu­nity was detrimental to Ger­man farmers. 
In a speech to several thousand supporters of his Re­publican Party, which has surged in national polls, the 66­year-old politician denied being anti-Semitic. 

There are Jewish authors, composers and painters "I like," he said, "but I don't like Mr. Galinski." 
Heinz Galinski, who is 76 and survived the Auschwitz death camp, constantly reminds West Germans of the horrors of the Hitler era and criticizes anti-Jewish tendencies of the extreme right wing. 
"Mr. Galinski sabotages German-Jewish reconcilia­tion," Schoenhuber said. 
Galinski told The Associated Press by telephone from his home in West Berlin: "There will be no comment from me because it is beneath my dig­nity to argue with Mr. Schoen­huber." 
Schoenhuber fought in France and on the Eastern front in World War II, then spent 10 years as a prisoner of the British. The SS, or Schutzstaffel, was a military unit of the Nazi party and sep­arate from the regular German army. 
At the meeting in Cham, a town of 16,000 people 80 miles northeast of Munich, he pounded his fist on the rostrum and declared: "Today's young generation of Germans is no more guilty for Auschwitz than the sons and daughters of Americans who committed genocide at Hiroshima and Nagasaki." 
More than 5,000 supporters, feasting on beer and sausages in the packed hall, interrupted Schoenhuber's two-hour speech frequently with ap­plause and shouts of "Bravo!" A bavarian brass band played before and after the speech. 

r Fewer appfy to top colleges in 1989 
i Associated Press The-application deadline for Davis Taylor, dean of admis­Don't touch that junk food 
next fall's freshman class was sions at Amherst College, in A young woman receives ashes Wednesday during a Lenten Mass at NEW YORK--A drop in the Feb. 1 at many selective Amherst, Mass., where fall ap­Sacred Heart Church. The Mass, which was celebrated by Father Edward number of high school schools around the country. plications have dropped about Malloy, marks the beginning of the 40-day period of preparation for 
graduates and mounting con­Stanford University's fall ap­4 percent. Easter. 
cern over tuitions are driving plications have dropped about down the volume of applica­6 percent, from 15,828 to 14,869, "I've been calling around tions to some of the nation's according to Lynne Madison, myself, and most of the col­most prestigious colleges for assistant dean of undergradu­leges I've talked to are experi­
J(JNJORSl 
the first time in years. ate admissions. 

encing declines at least as ----------------------­
Harvard University spokes­great as ours," she said. man Peter Costa estimates a 5 At the highly competitive 
Registration for 
to 10 percent drop in applica­University of California at "I consider this a yellow tions compared with a year Berkeley, applications are also light. We all kind of anticipated 
JPW 
ago, the first such decline in at down, from 21,944 to 20,835 for this," said Bradley Quin, ad­least two decades. Nearly all next fall's entering class. missions director of Lafayette 
2-10pm
other Ivy League schools are "It's really got to be the College in Easton, Pa., where reporting declines in that decline in the number of high applications are down about 5 
Feb 13-14 
range. school graduates," said Linda percent. 
LaFortune's Sorin Rm. 
• ;·~ .I G~Attr I ~I.AIL

_CHINESE-AMERICAN ~~'" ·.·.~~· .\ . ""~ \-'¥TlU EATING & DRINKING 
you must bring ID's for ea. person 

p .:·~~1~ .·· ALL-U-CAN EAT BUFFET ESTABLISHMENT 
that you register. 
. SPECIAL FOR $7.95 Includes soup, appetizers, 8 difterent entrees & desserts Sun, Feb 5-Thurs, Feb 9 
5:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. 130 Dixie w., South, Se.ltnd ______c_o_m~e-c-e.....le-b....~-ate the Chinese New Year! (next to Randall's Inn) m-nm 





EXPANDED 
t·······..--····--··················································t· ! CROSS COUNTRY SKI RACES i 

DELIVERY
• ! THIS SATURDAY i 
: TWO MILE RACE: CHECK-IN 11:45 ! 

TIMES 
: 200 YD. SPRINT: CHECK-IN AT 12:20 : 
' :
i 

REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT NVA • 239-6100
! 

: EQUIPMENT RENTAL AVAILABLE 
i• 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
---··········...-............--...................................... 
~~~~ 


Call 277-7744 
Subway is delivering to the Notre Dame

IRISH 
and St. Mary's campuses during the following times:
c:;A.RC>ENS 
12 Noon-12 Midnight Sat. & Sun.
Don't Forget-St. Valentine's Day is 
5' p.m.-12 Midnight Mon.-Fri.
Tuesday, February 14th!! 
Come to Irish Gardens for the BEST selection of BALLOONS and FWWERS! Plus, Worry-free ND/SMC Campus Delivery! Mastercard/VISA are always welcome! 
(Avoid the rush -Come in early!} 
State Road 23 and Ironwood
Basement of LaFortune -Mon.-Sat. 12:30 -5:30 AowoeKs 





Viewpoint
Thursday, February 9, 1989 
a e 7 

Helping out eating disorder victims 
Editor's note: The following is the last in a series of five articles dealing with eating disorders. 
My first experience with eating dis­orders was five years ago when a good friend in high school opened her heart and shared with me her secret of being a bulimic. Christy wondered how I would react and it took courage on her part to share this problem with me. I am afraid that in this instance I failed. 
Matt Beuter 
guest column 

Christy revealed her problem to me and I brushed it off as inconsequential. I could not understand how this could happen to a friend of mine. Christy was an all-American girl and she seemed to have everything going for her--how could she have this problem with her self-esteem? Her attempt to open up to me and my failure to take her seriously left a hole in my life. At the time I knew Christy, I was too immature to realize the extent of her problem or her need for human understanding. When she told me how she felt bloated after every meal, and the only way for her to release this feeling was to purge or vomit, I was horrified. To me, throwing up was something you did when you had the flu and not what you forced yourself to endure in the name of weight control. I had no concept of the suffer­ing she was going through and I had even less of a grasp on how to help her by being a good listener. Luckily, 
Christy found help and is today what can be loosely considered as recovered. 
When I came to Notre Dame I left Christy behind and I thought I had left eating disorders behind also, but this was not the case. I found a friend here who was also afflicted by this disease and I was given another opportunity to make the difference in someone's life. I met Wendy at the beginning of the fall semester. I was instantly im­pressed by her bubbly personality and her ever-present smile. We grew as friends. One weekend during the semes­ter we found ourselves at a tailgater. Everyone was drinking up the atmo­sphere and the joy was on all of our faces. Wendy was socializing when sud­denly she remembered that she had to take some medicine, and I being ever­curious, inquired further. She informed me that it was medicine for a disease I could never understand so it was not worth discussing. 
I pressed the subject. She explained it was both a physical and mental prob­lem. Keeping Christy in mind, I said, "I bet you have an eating disorder." Little did I know that this was true. Although Wendy was recovering, she was still suffering. I was very surprised by the accuracy of my guess, and found myself eager to reach out to her since I had failed so miserably in my previ­ous opportunity. Wendy had other ideas though, and she promptly changed the subject and we went on to discussing the upcoming football game. 
We saw each other after that but did not discuss her problem again until one 


The advantages of 
Are you looking for an alternate aerobic activity to break the hum-drum of running, biking, etc~ Well, the oppor­tunity will be afforded you at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Water aerobics classes 
Sandra Vanslager 
guest column 

are now under way. Two sessions are available: A one-hour evening class and a half-hour class during the lunch hour. 
What if you can't swim? This is a program that does not require swim­ming skills and is excellent for those wanting to begin an exercise program. Just slip into a suit, come on down and expect to get a great workout. 
Water aerobics has many advan­tages. To begin with, while in water the body's relative weight is reduced by 90 percent. Meaning, if there is a 330 lb. individual running in the water, the im­pact per step would be 33 lbs. However, if he is outdoors running, the b()dY night when she called me after dinner and asked if I had time to talk. Not knowing what to expect, I consented, hoping that I could be whatever Wendy needed. This was my first real experi­ence talking to someone who wanted to confide in me and I listened. That night I learned many things about eating dis­orders and their ugly grip on women; but it was only the beginning. Mter that night, I felt much closer to Wendy and 

"Today's society places a high demand on females to have a slim, trim body and men do nothing to derail this runaway freight train. This is hurting oth­ers we care about and it should not be allowed to continue." 
we began to spend more time together. We took trips to the Huddle for ice cream a few times and it taught us both many things. For Wendy these trips were like a trial by jury in her mind and she had to put up the best defense she could muster. This was a new begin­ning. She was seeing life for the first time through new eyes, but my eyes were becoming more cloudy and teary. · I started to become more sensitive to people on campus who I thought might have eating disorders. I talked to my friends about it and tried to get their input. It pained me to be at dinner with a girl with just a small salad and water on her tray, or even worse to see some­
one with their tray piled high with dining hall delicacies only to purge themselves later. I struggled with myself and wanted to offer help to everyone but was still unsure how to go about it. Wendy and I talked more and more often and I began to see more of her inner feelings. She was torn apart by the comments that most of us pass off as insignificant. It made me realize how many women today are influenced by what we say and do whenwe don't even know about it. 
This brings me to the final topic of my reflections: my feelings toward the insensitive comments made with little thought to their ramification. How far are people going to react to our style of joking? How far can we push these people without hearing them snap like a bowstring? Today's society places a high demand on females to have a slim, trim body and men do nothing to derail this runaway freight train. This is hur­ting others we care about and it should not be allowed to continue. My experi­ences have taught me that making a stinging remark at the wrong time can make the difference in another's life. As we all know, the converse i~ also true. We are all human and therefore need to interact to exist. If you know someone who is suffering from an eating disorder, talk to them about it or suggest that they get help. I have come a long way since my original rejection of Christy and I hope that my story helps someone else who is in need. 

Matt Beuter is a senior science preprofessional major. 


water aerobics 
weight is increased three-fold to 990 lbs. Therefore, water aerobics lowers the chance of injury. 
While exercising in the water' the water acts as a resistive force. The 

faster you move, the more resistance is created. Many of the exercises in the structure program are designed around motions involved with weight condition­ing principles. In conjunction with that, exercises are implemented to concen­trate on antagonistic muscles in order to aid the balance of the development of opposite muscle groups. 
There are several other benefits to exercising in the water. It is automatic that one's body core temperature rises while engaging in vigorous activity. While exercising on dry land, various environmental conditions need to be taken into account to regulate exercise intensity and duration. As the body term perature increases, fatigue sets in, reducing the duration of the workout. Water, however, acts as a cooling agent, permitting the participant to ex­ercise for a longer period of time. At the same time, the body is getting a natural massage from the moving water, aiding in limiting muscle sore­ness the following day. Of course, there is the improvement of cardiovascular fitness (increasing aerobic capacity) as well as conditioning and toning many 
muscles of the body. 

All classes start at the beginning level, and progress is adjusted at the discretion of the instructor. Each workout, however, can be performed to maximum capacity whether it is a beginning or advanced routine, and vice versa. It is important to keep in mind that if you are new at the "sport," you must give time for the body to learn and to become familiar with the exer­cises (about 4 classes). Once the exer­cises are learned, staying with the des­ignated pace should be focused on. As . strength increases, proper techniques should be performed to give maximum involvement and cardiovascular 
stimulation. 
Exercising in the water is great for all situations, weight loss, beginners, advanced athletes, rehabilitation, arthritics within various guidelines, cross trainers, stress reductions, and many others. Most of all, at the conclu­sion of each workout, you are guaranteed to feel refreshed. Contact Non-Varsity Athletics if you would like more information. I hope you come and try the newest and safest way to exer­cise while having fun. 

Sandra Vanslager is coordinator of fit­ness programs at Non-Varsity Ath­letics. 
-


Editorial Board Or;erations Board 
Edttor-m-Chief. .. Chris Murphy Business Manager John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor . Chns Donnelly Advertising Design Manager Molly Kill!'n 
News Editor Regis Coccia Advertising Manager L1nda Goldschmidt 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the UmverSity of News Editor Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager Bernadene Shilts Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of Vtewpoint Edtto• ..... Dave Bruner Systems Manager Mark R1dgeway the adm1n1strat•on of e•ther •nst1tut1on The news is reported as accurately and objeCtively as Sports E dttor . Marty Strasen Controller... Todd Hardiman poss1ble Unsigned editonals represent the opin1on of the majonty of the Ed1tonal Board. Accent Ed•tor ... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager... Marga Bruns Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column 
Saint Mary's Editor . . Sandy Cerimele space IS ava1lable to all members of the community and the free express1on of vary1ng 
Photo Editor . Michael Moran 
op1mons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 



______j 
-~----------------------------~---­
Thursday, February 9, 1989
Viewpoint
a e 8 


P.O. Box Q 
McManus family thanks NO 
Dear Editor: 
My wife, Terry, and our sons, Mick and Dave, and I would like to thank all of the students, faculty, administra­tors, and alumni of Notre Dame who 
responded  to  the  death of  our  son,  
Patrick, with  so  much kindness  and  
compassion.  

We have been overwhelmed by the number of people who attended his fu­neral and participated in the Masses said for him at Notre Dame and by the number of notes, sympathy cards, Mass cards and memorial fund contri­butions we have received. It is obvious that the Notre Dame family grieved at his loss along with us. Perhaps no one but those associated with Notre Dame can comprehend this feeling of family. 
Because we have heard from so many people, it will be difficult to acknowl­edge individually each expression of sympathy. However, we want everyone associated with Notre Dame to know how much we appreciate their kindness and to know what a comfort it was to us to realize that we had such support from our extended family. 
Arthur T. McManus Jenkintown, P A Feb. 6, 1989 
Student defends US foreign policy 
Dear Editor: 
I am really tired of the America­bashing I see in The Observer. When I read "USA gives world empty rheto­ric" on Monday, the misrepresenta­tions printed had to be exposed. 
I read that "the destabilization of popular governments has become a way of life for a populace in the grip of anti-communist paranoia." The author complains about U.S. action in Nicaragua. First of all, what he fails to consider is that in Nicaragua, his views, if printed, might get The Obser­ver shut down. As far as the "popular government" goes, many Nicaraguans oppose it, and I think it is in the interest of both the U.S. and Nicaragua to remove it, if that is reasonably possi­ble. Are Americans paranoid about communism? There is no communist government on earth that gives its people the kind of freedom Americans enjoy. Why do you think thousands of Nicaraguans are now in this country seeking political asylum? 
Sean Ellington asks if we have no con­fidence in capitalism. We do, but any doctrine that preaches violent over­throw, as communism does, cannot be handled by a "wait and see" method. America gets bashed for its involve­ment in El Salvador and other Central American countries. Well, I know the region is no bastion of civil liberties, Miranda warnings, and fair trials, but when leftist opposition in El Salvador threatens death to local officials unless they resign, drastic measures must be 

Doonesbury 

taken. (This was recently reported in Time Magazine. Most have resigned, and most of those who haven't are dead.) 
I'm not saying that U.S. foreign policy is perfect, but realize that for every peasant terrorized by the right, another gets the same treatment from the left. Central America poses many challenges, and the proper course of action is not nearly as simple as Sean Ellington suggests. 
Dave Redmann Morrissey Hall Feb. 8, 1989 
Gong Show assists needy children 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of the St. Hedwig Outreach Center and the class of 1990, we would like to cordially invite the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community to at­tend the third annual Gong Show, Friday Feb. 10, 1989 at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
The money raised from ticket sales, ads, and donations will directly benefit the St. Hedwig Outreach Center. The Center provides a place for lesser privileged children to go after school to receive tutoring, guidance, and friendship. The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's students who participate in this program find it as rewarding as the children. 
As representatives for the class of 1990 we would strongly encourage the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community to donate two hours of their time to gain two smiles in return. 
Beth Apone Caroline Klein Erich Straub Junior Class Service Commissioners Feb. 7, 1989 
Sacred Heart lacks open attitude 
Dear Editor: 
We are concerned with the lack of openness exhibited in the main church of Sacred Heart during weekend Masses. At the start of Mass, the con­gregation is generally instructed to stand during the consecration; the rea­son offered is to allow everyone to see the altar. In the instructions at the beginning of the Roman Missal, which all priests use to celebrate Mass, a clearpreferel\!e isgiven to the kneeling position during the consecration. In ac­cordance with the Missal and in accor­dance with the longstanding tradition in the United States and in many parts of the world, we wish to worship God in a kneeling position during the con­
. secration. We do not understand why the liturgist prohibits us from doing what the Catholic Church obviously al­lows us to do. ·•·
"~~ 
The consecration is the most sublime part of the Mass. During the consecra­tion, Jesus Christ becomes physically present on the altar. As the Most Rev­
erend John Keating, Bishop of Ar­I do not need to point out the basic lington, Virginia, wrote on Dec. 4, 1988, flaw in such an inane commentary.in his letter on the reverence of the Euc­Football players may not be worse, but harist, "No bodily posture so clearly most certainly they are not any better expresses the soul's interior reverence than any other person on this campus. before God as the act of kneeling. Regardless, most players whom I've Reciprocally, the posture of kneeling known possess quite enough self­reinforces and deepens the soul's atti­confidence that they do not need to hear tude of reverence" (p. 8). that meeting them is "sort of like meeting movie stars in Hollywood," or Everyone would agree that if people that the most stimulating thing Notre 
can clearly see the altar while standing Dame girls have to tell their parentsthat people can just as easily see the about their educational environment is altar while kneeling. As such, in the that they met three football players at name of openness, why are we a Campus View party.prohibited from worshipping God in such a manner? In fact, most females I know do not 
find such activity the least bit stimulat­Edward White ing. If someone told me I made "his Lester Syren liver quiver," I would consider myself Paul Blewett more repelled than "lucky." I have Keith Rothfus made many arguments trying to con­Off-Campus vince Notre Dame guys that Notre Jan. 30, 1989 Dame girls are not so shallow and mindless as to be more impressed by a football player than by any nice, fun­Counseling service ny, semi-intelligent guy. I find her at­titude far more offensive to both sexes
aids grad students 
than anyone's reading of Sports Il­lustrated's swimsuit edition. 
Dear Editor: By referring to herself as a "typical 
As an officer of the Graduate Student freshman geek," the author of such a Union, I would like to alert graduate contemptible commentary gravely in­students to the efforts of the University sults the entire freshman class, espe­Counseling Center to respond to cially the women. If a football player graduate student needs. The Center, in thinks she is "pretty rediculous," he is cooperation with the GSU, will be of­being generous. fering a Graduate Student Support Group this semester on Mondays, noon­
1: 15 in the Foster Room of LaFortune Mary Healy Student Center. This weekly confiden­Walsh Hall tial therapy group is designed for stu­Feb. 6, 1989 dents to explore strategies for coping with stresses unique to graduate school 
(i.e. dissertations, comprehensive ex­Female athletes aminations, competition vs. collabora­
want support

tion, balancing personal and profes­sional priorities, and other topics). The leaders for the group are Willis E. Dear Editor: Bartlett, PhD., and Andy Strowig, M.A. We, as members of the Notre Dame 
women's basketball team, are proud to 
The group will be open to 12 partici­represent Notre Dame tradition in ath­pants. Those graduate students inter­letics as well as academics. Notre ested in joining the group must be will­Dame's first women's team was ing to attend all sessions during the formed in the early seventies. We feel semester and must call the Counseling that this began a bright tradition of wo­Center to schedule an interview before men's sports here. the first meeting on Monday, Feb. 20. If you have any questions about the As in other sports at Notre Dame, the group, please call the UCC. student body is a part of this tradition. 
The students are known for their great Linda A. Taylor support of sports teams throughout the Graduate Student Union long history of Notre Dame athletics.
Feb. 3, 1989 
We have felt the support of the student body in many tough games in the past. They have inspired us and made us feelStudent finds proud to be part of the Irish spirit. We would like to ask the student body for 
column foolish 

continued support as we finish our last series of home games of the season. 
Dear Editor: 

Our remaining home schedule includes 
I have never been more disgusted by Evansville today at 7:30p.m., St. Louis 
anything I've read in The Observer on Feb. 11, Loyola on March 2, and But­
over the past four years than I was by ler on March 5. We would greatly ap­
Kelley Tuthill's article entitled, "See­preciate the support of our fellow stu­
ing Football Players in Person is a dents to cheer us on to VICTORY!. 
Thrill." From the headline, I thought-­hoped--that the piece would be a joke. 
Heidi Bunek 
As it turns out, the entire article is so 
Lisa Kuhns 
queer that it would be funny if it were 
Co-Captains
not so appalling. 

Feb. 7, 1989 
Gary Trudeau Quote of the Day 

"If we could all hear one another's prayers, God might be relieved of some of His burden." 

-Ashleigh Brilliant 

-----------~-----------------------------------------------------, 
-




Accent 
page 9

Thursday, February 9, 1989 
Gong Show for a ood cause 
I 
BRIAN O'FALLON professor, Daniel Lapsley, accent writer and Tony Rice will wield the gong with which the 17 acts, f you missed out on the including everything from Keenan Revue, you still singing to swallowing live have an opportunity to see gold fish, will have to con­your fellow students perform tend. (and some make fools of themselves) at the Gong Many talented students will Show this Friday night at 730 be performing seriously for p.m. in Washington Hall for a the Gong Show Award. For mere $2. As in the past, stu­example, Jane Riccardi will dents from all over campus be doing a stand-up comic will perform in this charity routine, and Tim Flood will event put on to benefit the St. perform a serious dramatic Hedwig's Outreach Program. piece. However, there are a 
few acts which we can expect to be gonged, like the gold fish torture and some of the tackier songs and lip synch routines. It is this blend of serious talent and enthusias­tic farces that promises to make the Gong Show an en­tertaining and successful event. 
With Andrew Gordon re­turning from last year and singing an original regae 
"It's the new gong that I'm song, and with several of the most excited about," joked actors from the successful Raul Gonzales, the director of production of "Ten Little In­the 1989 Gong Show. The dians" appearing in the show, ago," said Eric Straub, one of goes to the Outreach Center The money raised is also show will go "on the air" advance ticket sales are way the producers of the show and to tutor the children and play used to bring some of the St. Friday in the spirit of the ahead those of the previous the junior class service com­with them six days a week. Hedwig's children to Notre television show, complete two years. The students, missioner. "St. Hedwig's is a Beyond the academic help Dame for picnics, basketball with staged commercials be­however, are not the only poor downtown South Bend which enabled each St. Hed­games, and entertainment tween acts. ones who will benefit from parish, and the money we wig's child to pass his or her events like the Gong Show. 
"The whole show is going to Friday night's show because raise this weekend will go to grade level last year, it is the be more spontaneous than all the money collected will the Outreach Center which personal attention that each So when you go to the Gong before," said Gonzales. This go to St. Hedwig's Outreach provides the kids in the neigh­needs most. "These kids often Show on Friday, you can ac­year, the wide variety of acts Program. borhood with a safe place to come from single parent tually see the people your will continue as long as the study and play after school." homes," Straub said, "and donation is helping. That audience and the judges will "The class of 1990 picked Notre Dame students provide alone should be reason allow. Tom Doyle, student St. Hedwig's for their class Along with CILA and Mor­an important role model for enough to fill Washington body president, psychology service project three years rissey Hall, the class of 1990 them." Hall. 
Sophomore Literary Festival 
Poet Mueller and her outlooks on life 
I 
GERRY SCIME(;A from "Entertainment Marie Luise Kaschnitz. joy or pain. This attitude al­while assessing her powers of accent writer Tonight," but also her own Mueller's own poetry tar-lows almost anything, from perpetuating romance in line of salad dressings. getting a good haircut to stub­"The Biographer." f poets were accorded as Mueller, tonight's featured bing a toe, both suitable sub­God knows I've used equal an amount of ap­guest of the Sophomore 
jects for her poetry. what surgical skills I have preciation in our society as Literary Festival, has won "In Praise of Surface" to open you up through minor quarterbacks or even fuzzy continuous praise and just bonds the idea of love simul­incisions hand-puppets, the propor-about every poetry award taneously to the emotional larger ones might not have 
short of the Sport's Illustrated and the sensoral. healed,
, 

medal for outstanding wo­When I touch you left you a cripple or a corpse, ~..........~~--.. men's prose. Her passionate with hands or mouth, and I love you too much for 
,. 

and personal themes have I bless your skin, that.(J won her praise for her gifted the sweet rind Mueller's last book of ability to touch on the through which you breathe, poetry, "The Need to Hold seemingly mundane, habitual the only part Still," won the American 
' 

motions of each passing day, I can possess. Book Award, and her still and highlight them through gets the autonomy of the self A hopeless romantic, Muel­rising reputation promises a the common denominators in with a depth and nourishing ler delicately sways from per­worthy conclusion to the out­life we all share. insight into the human condi­sonal to objective outlooks on standing line-up of poets the 
After spending the first 15 tion which leave poets like her life, as shown by the Festival has offered through years of her life in Germany, Rod McKuen resembling a middle ground she straddles the week. Mueller came to the United plate full of ho-bo's. The 
States and mastered her craft gnawing awareness felt in life as a teacher and critic. In a is microscoped in much of 
-
WVFI
short span of time she distin­her work, the "existential tional amount of celebrity guished herself through her hum" so to speak, yet her 
AM64 
Lisel Mueller would have ac­poetry as well as through her prose leads us to a conclusion crued would guarantee her bilingual translation of of satisfaction in each-sepa­not only pestering paparazzi "Selected Love Poems" by rate moment regardless of its 
Top 1 0 Albums 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
Feb. 1-Feb.8, 1989 

Janler Salazar, Rosl Losada, Julie SCharfenberg, and Suzanne Brown perform at the Gong Show rehearsal earlier this week. 
HI, Ros~L~N. Cl:)MI;. ON IN. CALIJ\t-~'s !JPsli\IRS \HOI~ FRQtJ. '(O'J, 9J 100 Mr>.~ 1\f>..'JE 
.61-1 Ef>.S'I EVEN\~. 
.---------------~
Tili\T 'flCIJLD Bt. GR£1\T. nE 
1. The Replacements "Don't Tell a Soul"
GOT TO 5TUD'{ TON\G\\T FOR /l.. BIG Its\ TOt-IOR\!o't-1 . 
2. 
Dinosaur Jr. "Bug'' · 

3. 
The Violent Femmes "3" 

4. 
Volcano Suns "Farced" 

5. 
R.E.M. ''Green" 


6. 
Trip Shakespeare "Are You Shakesperienced" 

7. 
Cowboy Junkies "The Trinity Sessions" 

8. 
Government Issue "You" 

9. 
The Blisters "The Sleepers EP" 

10. 
The Farmers "Black Sea" 




page 10 The Observer Thursday, February 9, 1989 
-
Men's IH basketball teams battle for playoff positions 
By BARB MORAN Sports Writer 
In men's interhall action last night, Morrissey Hall defeated Dillon with a close score of 59­50 to maintain their undefeated status. Morrissey, now 6-0, fell behind early in the game, but put their fast break to work to put themselves up 25-21 at halftime. The strong running game and man-to-man defense of Morrissey, along with foul trouble on the Dillon side, com­bined to put the final score in Morrissey's favor. 
Morrissey coach Steve Corr is optimistic about his team's chances in the upcoming playoffs: 
"We'll do alright, we have a strong running and shooting game," said Corr, "and we've been playing together for a couple of years." 

Corr also cited the strong play of guards Kevin Keyes, Rod Culver and Kevin Kade, and forwards Derek Johnson and Tom Veltz, as vital to the team's success. 
Morrissey will attempt to retain their undefeated status when they play their final game of the regular season against the powerful off-campus Invin­cibiles tonight at 8. 
In the Big Sky division, Keenan captured first place with a win over Cavanaugh last Saturday, leaving second place to the 4-1 Stanford team. 
Keenan captain Steve McCarthy cites a combination of rebounding strength and hard practice as the reasons for his team's top position in the conference. Keenan will head into the playoffs with a strong 5-1 record, depending on the combined rebounding power of Gary Anderson and Joe Hippler and the tough play of point guard Tony Dill. 
In Big Ten action, the first place slot is still up for grabs. Previously undefeated Fisher, the current leader in the divi­sion, suffered a tough loss to the Alumni Dogs 2 last Satur­day, putting their conference title in jeopardy. 
Fisher will play second place Pangborn (4-2) tonight for the Big Ten title. Pangborn will rely on the play of high scorer Martin Somerville to move them into first place. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
~=~~·:~·~~~~~;~~~:~~==:.·~-~.:·~~~-.-~·~ 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way 
Laura,we do expect to see you danc1ng


II II

on pool tables tomght LaFortune. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Off-Campus hockey has a game Monday night at 
11:45 against Morrissey. All those who have not paid their $5, please bring it. Those who can not make it to the game should call 289-1124. -The Observer 
The NO crew team will hold a general meeting for all varsity and novice members tonight at 7:30 in the Montgomery Auditorium of LaFortune. Bring checkbooks because dues will be paid. -The Observer 
An advanced speed and conditioning class will be held at the Loftus Center beginning Monday and continuing through March 1. Classes will be Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays from 5:30 to 6:30p.m. Physical examinations are recommended before partici­pation. recommended. For more information, call Scott Rairdon at the weight room (239-7890). -The Observer 
The NVA downhill ski trip has been rescheduled to Friday. The bus leaves the library circle at 5:30p.m. New signees are welcome. The $17 fee covers equipment, a lift ticket and transportation. Register at the NVA office. 
-The Observer 

Irish Outdoors is holding the spring semester information meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Notre Dame room on the second floor of LaFortune. Plans for the spring break trip to the TeTons will be reviewed. Any questions should be directed to Shaun Foley at 271-0758. -The Obser­ver 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 





Classifieds 
- NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Typlng.Wordproceulng 237-1949 TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks foe CASHII Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available I PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 TYPING: Proleulonelly done by Parelegal 272-5337 evenings :;:::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.................... 1 LOST/FOUND I LOST: 30 Macintosh diskettes from my car in C1. The importance of those disks cannot be exagerated. $$$ for informa­tion leading to the return of them. Please call # 4936 or 289-1628. Or d you already have them, please return them to 230 Knott Hall. No questions asked. LOSTii!Oid high school class ring!l any info PLEASE contact Jim x4048! LOST-BROWN HORN RIMMED GLASSES!! CAN'T SEE SO CALL SHANA 269111 LOST: LONG BLACK WOOL SCARF SOMEWHERE BETWEEN CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS AND ALUMNI HALL TUES. NIGHT. PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 1138. LOST: TWO GOLD EARRINGS, ONE BETWEEN GRACE AND ST. ED'S, AND THE OTHER IN A GOLD COUCH. PLEASE SEE GINA IN 416 BADIN IF FOUND. VERY GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. LOST: Blue ID ceN with NO ID end Mluourt Drtvera LlcenN on Wednea­dey at JACC. Cell Merte 283-2823. LOST: KEY CHAIN at Sr. Ber, with 3 lceye labelled 1, 1, 52. LNve meuege at 3409 or 3418.  PEARL NECKLACE WITH BROKEN CLASP LOST AT JUNIOR FORMAL. PLEASE CALL ANN AT 284-5405. FOR RENT FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK­FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVmES. RESERVE NOW FOR AU UPCOMING EVENTS. 618-471-5711. HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT THE IRISH B&B DURING JPW. LOCATED 2 Ml FROM N.D. FOR INFO. RING 272­7738. 2 ROOM EFFICIENCY SINGLE PER­SON 288-0955 Apts. lor rent: small studio and lovely 2 bedroom at 1320 Hillcrest (one mile west of ND). 232-9506 for appt. An efficiency225.oomonth, all utilities in­cluded. SB historical district 232-9506 for appt. A 2 bedroom house. One mile west ol NO at 214 W. Anglea. 232-9506 for appt. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291-7153. HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D. 683-8889-277-3097. WANTED NO Law achool atudenta to be repa lor Keplen-SMH Ber Rev!-COUI'M8. Eem free ber review course plua SS'a. call 272-4135. Aak lor Sue. Summer job interview-Average earnings $3,100. Gain valuable experience in ad­vertising,sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for the Univers~ of Notre Dame Telephone Directory. Op­portun~ to travel nationwide. Complete training program in North Carolina. Ex­penses paid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthusiastic,goal ori­ented students for challenging well­paying summer job. Some internships available. Interview on campus Monday, February 13th. Sign up at Career and Placement Services in the lower level of the Hesburgh Library. FOR SALE  round trip plane ticket March 4-12 O'Haref'alm Srings $368 Jane X1810 TICKETS HELP I I need TWO GA's for the Louisville gamell Ask for John at x3459. HELP! I need 51-GA tkts for NOOMU b-ball. Call Kelly, x2611 PERSONALS MF--"Confidence is high. My state is peaking." LAW SCHOOL: Stert your Bar Review early. Kaplan-SMH revlewa to many atetn available here In South Bend. Tranaler beck home lor aumrner. Ole­counts lor Kepl•n LSAT alumni. Reaerve before Merch 2 Call 272-4135. Aak lor Sue. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373 SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spend 7nte-8deya at Sprtng Break'a HOT­TEST reaort, The Clarendon Plaze . home of Penrod'IO'The Plantation Club and the largeat pool deck ON THE BEACH! $195 per peraon limited apace. Call today Breekewey Toura 1­800-444-7384. LOVE Remember Valentlne'a Dey Feb. 14th A Gilt from The Country Harvnter uyal LOVE YOU In a specl81 wey. Located In the LaFortune Student canter Beument Houra: 12-5:30 Mon-Frt. BRIGHTEN YOUR LIFE!! MEET THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL THROUGH OUR SINGLES CLUB. INTRO SINGLES CLUB, BOX 3006, BOSTON, MA 02130. Singing Valentines!!!  CHRIS,AKA,SULL Y HAPPY 22ND THANKS FOR MAKING MY FIRST YEAR BEARABLE! LOVE YA,KERRY NDSMC VALENTINE BALLOON SALE SEND YOUR BOYFRIEND, SWEET­HEART OR WHATEVER, A BALLOON FOR VALENTINE'S DAY. ON SALE IN THE DINING HALLS. FRESHMEN SKI TRIP SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 19 AT SWISS VALLEY TICKETS GO ON SALE FEB 7-10 IN THE FRESHMAN OFFICE ON 2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373 VALENTINE'S DAY AT IRISH GAR­DENS MON-SAT 12:30-5:30 BAL­LOONS & FLOWERS NOOMC CAMPUS DELIVERY MCVISA Sl SWIMSUIT ISSUES-FREE w~h a $100 Valentine's Day Purchase at IRISH GARDENS FREE KEVIN COSTNER POSTERS with a $100 Valentine's Day Purchase at IRISH GARDENS OPEN COMPETITON lor all atudenta lntereated In being on the Model UN team going to Washington D.C. In April. A almulatlon will be held In 124 Heyn-HealyThuredey Feb. 9 at 7-9:30 pm. can Matt 1542 lor Info. AVOID THE RUSH! COME IN SOON TO TYPE IN YOUR VALENTINE'S CLASSIFIEDS. Driving to IU or Indy this weekend? Want a rider to share expenses? Call 4072 Remember your VALENTINE! or friend. Buy CANDYGRAMSI at both dining halls Wed-Fri. ONL VIII $1 CANDYGRAMSIII CANDYGRAMSI!I WANTED: BASS PLAYER for Hard Rock outm playing originals and SQme covers Must PLAY BASS and show lor rehear­sal. Call Don x3068, oc Paut x1847. GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID  NEED ride to Naperville lor weekend of 211. Please call Mary, 2623. Party w' The Backstreet Blues Band Thurs. Feb. 9 at McCORMICK'S!! • • • •" • • "" • • • • • MARDI GRAS BALL • • MARDI GRAS BALL • • MARDI GRAS BALL • " • • FRI., FEB. 10 • • SOUTH DIN. HALL • • • • COME HEAR THE • • BIG BAND SOUND • • • SUMMER JOB Work with Chicago inner· c~ kids-8 to 13 yrs-at summer camp on Lake Geneva(WI) Fun and great ex· perience Call Mark at 2185 for info HELP! I NEED RIDE TO MADISON,WI.ANY WEEKEND OR FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL PAY GAS. CALL 5543. COME TO STEPHAN CENTER AND ROCK YOUR BODY TO THE MUSICIIIIIII ITS A FUNDRAISER FOR THE 1989 FASHION SHOW. A BATTLE OF THE DJS FOR YOU TO ENJOY. JUST $1.50 AT THE DOORII! PLEASE SUPPORT THE BCAF FASHION SHOW. SAT. FEB.119PMTO 12:45AM. SEE VA THERE!!! CHICAGO BUS TRIP "Windy City Shuttle" sponaored by the Student Actlvltln Office, will run thla Seturdey, Feb. 11. The bua will leeve the Meln Circle et 9:45 am and return at 10 pm. Tickats are available lor $10 at the lnlormetlon Deak, 1st Floor LaFortune. Next shuttle will run Saturday, Feb. 18. "WHATS UP DOC?" STUDYING FOR MCATS? BUY MY REVIEW BOOKS NOW CALL 4305 TE QUIERO TEAMO TE ADORO THANK YOU FOR THE BEST 2 MONTHS I I LOVE YOU JOSE GIPPERII You Need A Shoe Phone You're Never Homelll How About That Study Break And Game ol Twister ?? Gimme a Call Your "Poe" L~e Friend f2Happy 21st Kathy PI 13-Tim Sorry, Brian O'Gara, not even Bird can help Boston now. CELTICS DIEIII GO 76erslllllllll "II she was hall as deep as she thinks she is, she'd drown her-seH" --The Mad  IT"S THE GONG SHOWII Coming this Friday to Notre Dame TICkets at Junior Class Office for 2.00 GONG SHOW!! GONG SHOW!t M-1 THINK I KNOW WHO YOU ARE NOW. HOW COULD I FORGET SUCH A BEAUTIFUL PAIR OF ... EYES. WHEN WILL I GET TO TEST MY HUNCH?­BLOND GUY W{>LASSES WHATS UP FOR VALENTINE'S DAY? VALENTINE BAUOONSIII BUY YOUR BALLOONS FOR ONLY $2.00 TODAY IN THE DINING HALL. THEY WILL WILL BE DELIVERED ANYWHERE ON ND OR SMC CAM­PUSES. GET YOURS TODAYIII HI Kitty and Rita! The countdoWn Ia on lor Daytona and It won't be ahedy. MARY BALLOONS BALLOONS VALENTINE SPECIAL $20 CAN'T AFFORD ROSES? A SCENTED BALLOON BOUQUET IS THE AM­SWER 2511-5133 OR 2511-5115 FOR FREE DELIVERY OR PICK UP AT 513 E. MCKINLEY, MISHAWAKA. WE ALSO FEATURE MUGS & BASKETS WITH EITHER HERSHEY KISSES OR TEDDY BEARS. RIDER NEEDED One-way from Westchestei'INY,CT-NJ back to ND on 3111 oc 3112. Dad will only let me bring the car to school d I travel w~ someone I Call Chris Walsh x2773 or 239-5313. Our deereat Dee Dee­"The only thing more lmpreulve than our peat.. .la our future." All our love, K K & V ATTN ND MEN: ALL OF YOUR PHONE CALLS, FLOWERS, LATE NIGHTS AND LOVE LETTERS R GETTING HARD 2 TAKE. WE HAVE FORCED OUR ROOMMATE, KRISTEN CARTY 2 GIVE UP MEN 4 LENT. PLEASE ABSTAIN FROM HER 4 40 DAYS. SINCERELY, HER CONCERNED ROOMMATES THE ONES WHO ALSO FOUND KAREN CARBONE A DATE LAST SEM. THANK U BRUCEII LIVE MUSIC MCCORMICK'S  
LOST: EYEGLASSES ON SUNDAY BEFORE GAME BETWEEN ALUMNI & ACC. CALL SHANNON 2534. LOST A GOLD WATCH IN HAYES HEALY ON MONDAY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 2666. WILL THESCUMWHOTOOKMYCOAT FROM THE SUB OFFICE,bet 1o&12 mon,PLEASE RETURN MY GLASSES. I CAN'T SEE WO THEM. AT LEAST TURN THEM IN TO LOST AND FOUND.  Can you buy Jeeps, Cars, 4X4's seized in drug raids for under $100.00? Call for !acts today. 602-837-3401. Ext. 681 For Sale: SYNTHESIZER call Joe 1865 ································································ Technics Turntable SL-BD2; Jayi910 78 celica hatchback, 5 speed, air sun roof, 63k, mechanically sound, $950, call 239-7178, 8 to 5  Glee Club Singing Valentines Lat us Serenade Your Sweetie! OVERSEAS JOBS.$1100-2000 mo. Summer,Yr.round.AII Countrlea.AII ftelda. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04, Corona Del Mer, CA 92625. Student Night at the mall. Be there or be square. Student Night at the mall tonight ... where the action isl ············································--·······"·········  FRI. 12:15 DOME STEPS Thanks, Paullll TK&PG "MIDWINTER'S AT UVA* It's the party of the year & Kay & Shannon want to be there more than anything! We will drive, pay for gas, bake cookies--all If you can get us there (Feb 17-19)11 PLEASE CALL i320 or 13311  Winker SHAWN SKELLY, I'M WATCHING YOUI YOU SECRET ADMIRER. IF INTER­ESTED, CALL ANGELA X3878 WHO WEARS BRIGHT CLASHING CLOTHES, HAILS FROM CHI-TOWN, SCREAMS UNCONTROLLABLY, AND TURNS 21 TODAY? NONE OTHER THAN KATHY PANOSIII HAPPY 8-DAY KATHI LOVE, THE GANG HILL STREET knows that Friday means  125 N. Michigan N.D'a OWn: "Youth In Aale" Frldlly-10 pm R & B with "Steel Shank'" Saturdey-11:30 pm WOMEN OFND Do you lik£SIIIIQ)Nn·haired boys with dandy dispositions? Then enter the MICHAEL KIRKWOOD DREAM DATE CONTEST write to: 204 Carroll Hall TODAY!  
Lost: ID, detex, key and money at Mor­rissey 3rd lloor off campus SYR on Sat­urday night. PLEASE return at least the ID, detex, and key to 239 Siegfried, or mail them, no questions asked. Or call x4826. LOST: BLACK AND WHITE TWEED LONG WOOL COAT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KARIN AT 272·9903. (LOST IN MADELEVA CLASSROOM LAST WEEK)  TWA $200 VOUCHER Best Offer Kevin x2334 For Sale:Roundtrip plane ticket to Newark,NJ from SB. REAL CHEAP! call Rob 3244 SYNTHESIZER,YAMAHA DX7 d~igal­full midi call Greg 234-6355 CONTINENTAL BUMP-ANYWHERE IN U.S.A cheap call steve x283-1079  hleg •••••SENIORS•-•• CHICAGO TRIP WED., FEB.15 $12 SIGNUPS WED.-FRI. (FEB. 11-10) IN SENIOR CLASS OFFICE --·SENIORS-•  SOPHOMORES SENOR KELLY'S ALL YOU CAN EAT TACO BAR, JUST $4 THIS FRIDAY FROM 5:30 till 7:30 MEET THERE OR TAKE THE BUS FROM THE MAIN CIRCLE AT 5:30 SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES The DATING GAME is coming!  100 DAYS TILL WE BUM RUSH THE SHOW! R. Bud says, "Friday means no OLD SWILL and only 100 days till we BUM RUSH THE SHOW!II" YOUTH IN ASIA LIVE AT McCOR· MICK'S Friday 10th 10:00pm.  BRIGHT EYES, How about going out for a morose dinner Tuesday night? GROIN A special thanks to: GINA for being such a good friend and visiting me in the infirmary. GLORIA for always being there for Waner when I couldn't be there. CELESTINE for con­vincing me to go out ~h other guys like Shawn.  


---~­
-----------------------~--~ ------­
Thursday, February 9, 1989 The Observer page 11 
-



WITH STUDENT I.D. J.c ~ IJoo AT: llr(; . Pl!:tv!v 'IC~t;o/f '8rc~., li:y ~~ ~~ .~ l..IJ ~~~ -1tvb ~~ c<S ~-tO c\~ ~\\.'S ~~ ~~ c,O ~~~\; :'j.l~~f,\J ~rtC· ~~<(.. ~~ fO ~~'t'S + 
u S~ FREQUENTSHOPPER 
The final chapter? Day four: Notre Dame and St. Mary's students satisfied and happy that they went to student night at the mall. 
Act Four: We find our stars in the library study room once again and they are busily conversing about the excitement they finally received a student night. Bob: "I can't believe the fun that we had last night. I'm so excited that I got the new Erasure c.d. and a new Morrissey poster for my room." Jessica: " I'm really happy with the new clothes that I bought with the discounts that the mall merchants gave us just by showing our student id's. I'm glad that I got a free punch on my frequent shopper card by showing the Transpo stamp on my hand maybe my card will be chosen in the newt drawing for prizes." Colleen:" I really enjoyed the movie that we saw. It was so hard to decide between "Working Girl", "Naked Gun" and "Three Fugitives", but I'm satisfied that we saw" Three Fugi-tives" because it was so good. Oh, and that popcorn that we got for free because we rode the bus tasted so good. There's nothing that can beat a good movie and popcorn, except, maybe my studies." Bob: "0h no, here we go again!" 
And so ends the saga of student night at the mall. Why don't you take the advice of ovr stars and travel to the mall tonight for an event designed for you exclusively Don't forget to pu.rchase your movie tickets for the West Theater at the Student Activities Office and your hostess on the bus will provide you with all the information about special promotions when you board the Transpo bus. Come, experience student night at the mall. This is Transpo signing off and saying, 

FOR INFORMATION CALL 
233·2131 

ND ready for MCC rematch 
Davis ' offensive, defensive consistency sparks the Irish 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
When you are 5-foot-9 and playing among the trees in the low post, it is easy to lose respect for those who say bas­ketball is not a contact sport. 
But sophomore forward Krissi Davis has not shied away from contact under the basket this season. 
In fact, she has grabbed a team-high 114 rebounds thus far for the Notre Dame wo­men's basketball team--35 more than her nearest team­mate. 
It is a familiar role for Davis, who played inside during high school and in her first season, when the Irish were under­manned after a rash of injuries depleted the low post. 
But this year was supposed to be different. Senior co­captain Heidi Bunek and a talented crew of freshmen post players were supposed to clean up on the boards. 
Once again though, injury and illness have taken their toll on the Irish, and the in­defatigable Davis has been called on again to resume her duties in the paint. 
"I know there will be a time when I will need to move out to the perimeter," said Davis. "But I've spent a lot of time in the low post and I'm used to it. I've gotten used to the idea that when you're shorter you've got to use your quickness and out­smart your opponents." 
Intimidation among bigger players has yet to be a factor for Davis, who has led the team in rebounding on six separate occasions, including a season­high 12 against one of the strongest team's the Irish have faced this season, Old Dominion. 
But Davis has been using her foot speed and court savvy to do more than just rebound. 
She has purloined more passes than any other Irish player--snatching a team-high 52 steals--and has helped con­vert these pilfered passes into points, dishing out 34 assists. 
And though she does not con-

Krlssl Davis 

sider herself a scorer, Davis is third in scoring, averaging 8.2 points per game. 
She has been a consistently strong shooter from the field, with a .519 percentage, and has gone to the charity stripe more than any other player and come away with a .767 free-throw percentage. 
"My goal for the season was to shoot 75 percent from the free-throw line and relax more with my shooting," said Davis. "But I never want to be a flashy player. 
"I'm not a big offensive threat. I get much more satis­faction making a good pass or setting a hard pick and seeing my teammates score because I know that's what it takes to win." 
Davis' team-oriented atti­
.MATEO'S Subs now delivers your favorite appetizers with your favorite subs 
FRIED MOZZORELLA STICKS ••••••••••••••••••••• 2.65 ONION RINGS (good ones) ..................... 2.65 FRIED ZUCCHINI STICKS....................... 2.65 FRENCH FRIES................................ 1.05 
CHEESE FRIES................................ 1.55 
MUSHROOMS (deep fried)...................... 1.55 BUFFALO CHICKEN WINGS••••••••••••••••••••••• 2.75 Marv Levy's favorite! Above Served with a choice of Marinara Sauce or Cheese Sauce 
MOST purchase a sub for delivery 271-0SOB 
tude is reflected in her scrappy play not only in game situa­tions, but in daily workouts. 
"She's a real hard worker," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "She plays as hard in practice as she does in games, and with that kind of work ethic, she's going to keep getting better and better." 
As a freshman, Davis learned to accept a role as a sub and came off the bench to spark the team with several sterling performances. 
And the one-year adjustment period has given Davis just enough time to mature as a player and get used to the 
J
faster-paced college game before she moved into a start­ing role this season. 
Davis has worked in the off­season and is now under the tutelage of graduate assistant Sandy Botham, who is sharing her knowledge of the low post game with Davis. 
"Sandy has already helped me a lot," said Davis. "And if I can keep gaining experience like that, I'm hoping within the next few years we can get closer to our goal of getting to the NCAAs and actually win­ning it." 
Davis and the team will have a chance to get one step closer tonight at 7: 30 as they take on visiting Evansville in the JACC. 
The Irish won comfortably, 75-65, earlier this season, and will be looking to keep their un­blemished 7 ~ Midwestern Col­legiate Conference record per­fect with another win. 
"Evansville has improved a lot since our first meeting," said McGraw, "and they have a lot of small players who are good shooters. 
"We'll have to go after them man-on-man and try to get a rebound advantage on them. lt!s always harder to win the second time around, but we want to keep winning games, especially in the conference. 
SfEAKS 
PRIMERIB 
SEAFOOD ~IC 

~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 

-
... 
... 

page 12 The Observer Thursday, February 9, 1989 
~ 
-
I 
I Miami
~ ~ continued from page 16 ~ 
I 
I 
seniors both recorded technical falls Tuesday. The 134-pound Durso's 15­I point lead (17-2) over Marc ~ Mattingly forced a stoppage in 
I 
play 4:35 into the match. Boyd, a 142-pounder who missed I much of the early-season
I 
matches with an injury, defeated Dave Fleming 20-5 in

I 
a match that did go the dis­

I 
I tance. I "Pat showed a lot of heart in I getting the technical fall," said 
I 
McCann. "He's not fully in

I 
shape yet, and he went out and 

I 
got a lot of points late." 

I 
I I Chris Geneser and Chuck I Weaver each pinned their op­
I 
ponents, and neither of needed I much time in accomplishing
I 
that task. Geneser's pin of

I 
Doug Fee, his eighth of the

I 
I 
I season, came 3:24 into the 177­pound division match. In the heavyweight division, 
Weaver needed just 63 seconds

I 
to finish off fellow freshman Joe Colistra. A former Oklahoma t 
wrestling king, Weaver has had 

problems adjusting to the col­I legiate game. He has come on I lately, however, winning a 
~ 
I 
major decision at Oklahoma 

~ 
before Tuesday's pin. 

I 
"He's starting to get confi­! dence," said McCann. "He's I young, and he won a big one 
I 
down at Oklahoma. Against In­

I 
diana, we'll need him because 

I 
that one might come down to

~ 
his match." 

Sophomore Mark Gerardi t also looked impresssive, taking a 21-6 technical fall over Mike 
Honkomp in the matchup of 158-pounders. 
"I think (Notre Dame) has 
some real superstars," said 
Miami coach Chuck Angello, 
whose team fell to 6-5. "It's like 
fighting a tiger. Every time we 
would hold back, they took an­
other bite out of us." 
Other Notre Dame winners included 118-pound Andy Radenbaugh (7-4 over Nick Canitano), 150-pound Todd Layton (9-6 over Paul Mar­shall) and 167-pound Todd Tomazic (16-3 over Mike Romp). Radenbaugh and Layton both were suffering minor illnesses while wres­tling.
In Miami's two wins, 126­pound Craig Petti defeated Notre Dame's Marcus Gowens 3-2 and 190-pound Hamilton Munnell won a 16-8 major deci­sion over Notre Dame's Curt Engler. 
"Miami has some scrap­pers," said McCann. "They don't have the best talent, but they're hard to wrestle. They're a little unorthodox, and they can make you look bad. They think they have a chance of winning the MAC (Mid-American Conference), and I think they've got a shot too." 
Angello had high praise for the Notre Dame program after the match. 
"I was at John Carroll before I got here, and Notre Dame was not a top-notch program," he said. "Fran McCann's done a super job. McCann, (assistant coach) Ricky Stewart and the wrestlers deserve credit." 
" ... High, wild and handsome comedy." 

FRIDAY AT THE SNITE 

Junior Andy Radenbaugh won a tough 7-4 victory Notre Dame wrestling team bring Its record up to In the 118-pound class to help the 13th-ranked 8-2 with a 37-7 win over Miami of Ohio. 

J:P.ffSJ.P 


~~~~b~c."
1..~11N p.tA 
WORK. SHARE. LIVE. LEARN. You can have a summer full of adventure & personal growth while improving health for the people of Latin America . VOLUNTEER! 
To be an AMIGOS volunteer, write: Amigos de las Americas, 5618 Star Lane, Houston, Texas 77057 . 
Or call: (713) 782-5290 or (800) 231-7796, 
(800) 392-4580 in Texas 
HURRY! Application deadline is ~fA'~ 
March 1, 1989, afterwards, on a first come first serve basis. 

NOTRE DAME 
FIGHTING IRISH 
.... 
WOLVERINES 
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 10 AT THE J.A.C.C. 
7:30 PM 


~----·-·------------·---·~~---~-~-----------­
Thursday, February 9, 1989 The Observer page 13 

Recruits 
continued from page 16 
and six from beyond the 47­yard range. He also averaged 47 yards a punt during his senior campaign. 
"I think players always want to go where they can win," Holtz said. "I think they under­stand the national attention and the recognition. But I would hope they selected Notre Dame for the proper reasons and not because we won the na­tional championship. I hope they selected Notre Dame be­cause of the educational oppor­tunities available here and the type of people they'll be asso­ciated with. 
"Too many futures are as­certained and too many obser­vations are developed simply based on what happens on na­tional signing date," Holtz said. "That's not realistic. I think this group we've brought in is intelligent, has good char­acter, has pretty good speed and pretty good skills. But nobody is going to win all by themselves out of high school." 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this story. 
+~··················· Stuff-N-Puff + 


LEARN

+ Inflatable Giftwrap ++ at North Village Mall + 

CPR,

+ Feb. 10-19 + 
•• For your fun and safety: Glow in the dark + 

PLEASE. 
shoelaces + 
Take a lifesaving Red Cross CPR course.

• +
Valentme Special: Sweetheart Shirt 
• (other sweatshirts available) + 
+AmericanRed.Cross 
rm 
::IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmll!! 
I ~000&\[b[b w [fOOO&\[b[b w i 
CROSS COUNTRY SKI RENTALS SKIS * BOOTS * POLES AVAILABLE AT THE ROCKNE GOLF SHOP 
OVERNIGHT RENTALS THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 4:30 -5:30 
SATURDAY -NOON -1 :00 PM ­~ CALL NVA 239-6100 ~ 
~ 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~ 
PRESENTS: 


"Last Hippie in 
lF©[NJ~@ []={]lf~ 
· Doors open at 8 :45 Show starts at 9:00 
Get y·our snacks and drinks 
at lF®@l0® [}={]~@J®®\YAYJ®WY

•UMONMM.an 
NOTRE DAME RECRUITS 
These players signed or .were expected to sign football letters of intent Wednesday with Notre Dame: Reggie Brooks, RB, 5-9, 190, Tulsa, Okla. Junior Bryant, DL, 6-5, 270, Omaha. Demetrius Dubose, LB, 6-3, 21 o, Seattle. Ray Griggs, WR, 6-3, 190, Crete-Monee, Ill. Jordan Halter, OL, 6-7, 260, Birmingham, Mich. Brett Hankins, OL, 6-5, 265, Norman, Okla. Craig Hentrich, K, 6-1, 175, Alton, Ill. Adrian Jarrell, DB, 6-2, 195, Athens, Ga. Lance Johnson, OL, 6-3, 255, Charlotte, N.C. Eric Jones, DL, 6-6, 235, Portage, Ind. Jake Kelchner, QB, 6-3, 200, Berwick, Pa. Chet Lacheta, OL, 6-3, 262, Chicago Heights, Ill. Dorsey Levens, RB, 6-2, 202, Syracuse, N.Y. Rick Mirer, QB, 6-3, 205, Goshen, Ind. Karl McGill, TE, 6-3, 228, Dunedin, Fla. Todd Norman, OL, 6-5, 240, Huntington Beach, Calif. William Pollard, WR, 6-5, 210, Fort Knox, Ky. Brian Ratigan, LB, 6-4, 216, Council Bluffs, Iowa. Randy Scianna, LB, 6-2, 230, Homewood, Ill. Erik Simien, LB, 6-3, 225, Gardena, Calif. lrv Smith, TE, 6-4, 225, Pemberton, N.J. Nick Smith, LB, 6-3, 220, Cincinnati. Shawn Smith, LB, 6-3, 206, Buena, N.J. Todd Stoker, DL, 6-4, 232, Hackensack, N.J. Stuart Tyner, DL, 6-4, 258, Tomball, Texas. 
Dillon, Off-Campus dominate IH hockey 
By ARTHUR GOLLWITZER Sports Writer 
As the 1988-89 Interhall 
hockey season approaches 
playoff time, close races can 
be found at the top of both the 
Gold and Blue divisions. 
In action Tuesday night, Off­
Campus Crime defeated Dillon 
5-4 in a very close game. Dillon 
jumped out to an early 3-1 lead 
on goals by Jim Kilway, John 
Ravoli, and Mark Zoia, as­
sisted by captain Tim 
O'Laughlin. 
The game turned around when the Crime switched to John Krotzer in goal. For the remainder of the game, Dillon scored only once more. Scoring for Off-Campus were captain John Kirk, Craig Caraful and Steve Bishop, who had the game-winner. 
Thursday night Dillon goes up against undefeated Grace in a game with major playoff im­plications. With Off-Campus at 4-0, Grace at 4-0 and Dillon at 3-1, a win over Grace would keep playoff hopes alive. 
A Grace victory would clinch 
playoff spots for Off-Campus 
and Grace. 
Grace is coming off a 9-0 win 
over Keenan on Monday. Offen­
sively, Dave Gullot and Joe 
Levan are major contributors 
for Grace. 
"We have gotten great play 
from our goalie Gary Davis," 
said Grace captain Erik Galis. 

Jackson 
continued from page 16 
only Ram in double figures, with 19 points. Jean Prioleau was next with 10. 
As usual, Notre Dame out­rebounded its opponent (36-24), but one surprising stat for the Irish came at the free throw line. Notre. Dame shot 85 per-
Paris  249  Brussels  
Munich  259  Tokyo  
Amsterdam  235  

Each way based on rouna tno from Chicago Some res1nct1ons apply ScheduleO earners Ca~ tor 
FREE Student Travel Catalog 
A Travel 01'.JISIOn olthe Courc•l on internatiOnal Educat•onat EXChange 
CounciiTravd 
29 E. Delaware 831 Foster St. Chicago, 1160611 Evanston, IL 60201 219/951-0585 312/475-5070 
In the Blue division, Stan­ford, Alumni and Cavanaugh are battling for two playoff berths. Stanford, having just beaten Fisher 7-0, is looking forward to next week's big matchup with Alumni. 
"We've had a lot of good 

playing," said Stanford cap­
tain Desmond Curran, "and 
goalie Hardie Tankersley has 
had two shutouts." 
Tom Treachy and Chuck Soutsos scored two goals each. Stanford has a 4-1 record, but that one loss was by a 3-2 score to Cavanaugh, which sports a 3-1 record. 
Goaltender Andy Fena 

starred in Cavanaugh's win 
over Stanford, a close battle 
that was decided by Chris Sul­
livan's goal in the final 
minutes. 
In a physical game Monday 

night, Cavanaugh blasted 
Pangborn 6-1 behind Sullivan's 
two goals and another strong 
performance by Fena. 
"Our goaltending is strong, 

and we're rolling toward the 
playoffs," said Sullivan. 
Undefeated Alumni could 

take a big step toward wrap­
ping up the division with a win 
over Stanford. 
"We have played real well, especially Dave Brock and defenseman Paul Arends," said Alumni captain Pat Hogan. "Defense is the key to winning for us." 
cent (11-for-13) from the charity stripe, up considerably from its season average of 65 percent. 
Although he did not score a point in the game, Singleton dished out 12 assists, picked up two steals and led a potent Irish running attack during their 46­point second half. 
"We know we have to press to win because we have a lot of fine athletes on this team, and they set us into our transition game," said Phelps. "The bot­
tom line with our team is press 
and run. We have to try to do 
it against the best teams in 
every conference to get us 
ready for the NCAAs." 
HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY SULLY 

\\'%;~ ~·> ~· lJP 
LO\·'E, JULIE &KERRY 
-~~---~---­
.---------­
page 14 The Observer Thursday, February 9, 1989 

Arizona will not take any chances with No.1 ranking 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, ARIZ.--On Feb. 1, 1988, the Arizona Wildcats were No.1 and purring to the NCAA pied Piper's then-hit tune, "Goin' to Kansas City." 
This week, back in first place in The Associated Press rankings, the Wildcats are not exactly whistling "Oklahoma" let alone humming the more obscure song "Seattle." 
What they had, for Thursday, was Oregon on the mind. 
A year ago, atop The AP poll for four straight weeks and six of seven, the Wildcats visited Stanford for a Pacific-10 game and were bounced from No. 1. They did go on to Kansas City and the NCAA final Four, where they got bounced again­-by Oklahoma. 
But what goes around comes around--thanks to some recent developments. 
The No. 1-ranked team Jan. 30 was Oklahoma. Arizona was fourth. 
But last weekend, Oklahoma, No. 2 Illinois and third-place North Carolina all lost, and the Wildcats, 17-2 and 11-1 in the Pac-10, leapfrogged into first place. 
Arizona is sure to still be there Sunday for its nationally televised game at Oklahoma, which fell to fifth in the latest shakeup. 
But much lies ahead before what Coach Lute Olson and his players hope will be a repeat trip to the Final Four in Seattle. 
First order of business is Oregon, 3-7 and seventh in the Pac-10, and 8-12 overall, in Eugene. 

"We know what it's like to play on the road ranked No. 1 against teams that really shouldn't beat you," said All American Sean Elliott. "We know how they come at you and and we know the circum­stances and the consequences involved. ­
"It's going to be a tough game. Our main goal right now is to win the league champion­ship, and that's what we're striving for, and it's not a sit­uation where you can get carried away worrying about the Oklahoma game. Really, the Oklahoma game isn't nearly as important as the Oregon game is." 
Said Olson: "give us one of the two games, and I'll take Oregon any day of the week," said Olson. "It'll be our job make sure that we keep our guys focused on what needs to be done." 
Olson said Oregon coach Don Monson has made some lineup changes that have improved the Ducks' recent perfor­mances, and that they will have "even more incentive" be­cause of Arizona's ranking. 
G-town 70, UCon. 58 
HARTFORD, CONN.--Jaren Jackson scored eight of his 18 points during the first 7: 52 of the second half as second­ranked Georgetown went on a 20-10 run and pulled away from Connecticut for a 70-58 Big East 





~CLUB1 





FRIttl/11011 

LE;1/TE;1/ cfPEOII!L T«l/11 t«8t 12.25 
8rv-~~ Pizz~ !Vaeio~ 
h-tw turrl #ORE/ 
IllAI:.UMNI ~m::::::: :::.;:;::....~ SENIOR ··-= 
i!:CLUB 
Student Manager Applications and Job Descriptions for 1989-90 
Are Now Available. Pick them up in 
the Office of Student Activities 315 La Fortune Application deadline is March 1, 1989 

following tonight's Our D.J. will be playing the Best in CLUB MUSIC So hang around after the 
show or stop by and dance your troubles away! 
.-..~f..~ ND-SMC 
~--~t.~ S.,UDENft : •••~ 16th Annual Program 
London Rome 
May 24-June 23 June 18-July 17 Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, Scotland, and France Germany, and 
Switzerland
*  
Informational Meeting  come vlalt wltll last years students and  ~  
~ Feb. 13, 7pm*351 Mandelm, SMC  teachers over refreshments and plna.  ~  

victory Thursday night. 
Jackson made a 3-point shot and a three-point play and Alonzo Mourning and Anthony Allen each had five points during the spurt as the Hoyas built a 30-26 halftime lead to 50­36 with 12:08 remaining. 
Georgetown, 18-2 overall and 8-1 in the conference, widened the lead to 65-43 before Connec­ticut scored 13 straight to close within 65-56 with 48 seconds left. The Hoyas were able to withstand the charge as Mark Tillmon and Charles Smith combined for five quick points. 
Connecticut fell to 12-7, 3-6. 
U of L 69, Cincy 66 
CINCINNATI--Pervis El­lison scored 17 points, grabbed seven rebounds and scored the go-ahead basket as fourth­ranked Louisville came from behind to defeat Cincinnati 69­66 Wednesday night. 
Ellison, who missed two games with a knee injury and didn't start in Monday night's loss to Florida State, helped the Cardinals battle back from deficits of nine points. 
First he hit a short jump shot to tie the game 66-66 with 2: 12 remaining. Then, after two Cin­cinnati turnovers, he dunked a pass from Tony Kimbro to put the Cardinals ahead 68-66 with 
1: llleft. 
Louisville, 17-4 overall and 6­1 in the Metro Conference, remained one-half behind first­
place Florida State. Cincinnati is 10-9 and 1-5. 
\? HAPPY 
VALENTINES 
DAY! ~a.~u ~(4 (] 4 4{Uel4t ~ 
C) Cj ********* 
(3.a (S17) 575-KKK4 
~~"t'c'.UM~ 
/64 IIJ. 4/ 7R'U71.L&S 
u.le ~eM 
?t&'X? V....t'll m 'l?t1YlA?tA
C) ************ 00 ONLY $19.95 05 
fincludes lN deliverYJ 
CAll r31'lJ 5'l5-8884 
P~A4. 7~ 

For more Info, contact
Courses offered in 

ART, BUSINESS, EDUCATION Prof. Black 4460 or 272-3726 HISTORY, ITALIAN, and JUSTICE Thursday, February 9, 1989 The Observer 
page 15 

CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
10 a.m. Sophomore Literary Festival workshop with MegWolitzer, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
11 a.m. Sophomore Literary Festival workshop with Sue Mil­ler, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
7 p.m. Intervaristy Christian Fellowship bible study discus­sion, 317 Lewis Hall. 
7:30p.m. Women's basketball vs. Evansville, JACC. 
8 p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival reading by Lisel Mueller, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
NC?on Peace Studies Brown Bag Seminar "A Critique of the DISarmament for Development Thesis," by Jurgen Brauer Notre Dame doctoral candidate in economics, Room 101 Law' 
School. 
Noon Colloquium with Heidi Hartmann, Room 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
4:15 p.m. Kellogg Institute and Center for Social Concerns Panel Presentation "The Chilean Plebiscite: The Instide Story of the 'No' Campaign," by Manuel Garreton, FLASCO, Santiago, Chile, and Eugenio Tironi, SUR, Santiago, Chile, CSC Multi-Purpose Room. 
8 p.m. AT&T Visiting Scholar Series "How Have State Gov­ernments Responded to the New Fiscal Federalism? How Will They Respond in the Future?" by Steven Gold, National Conference of State Legislatures, Galvin Life Science 
Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Special Dinner: Observance of Black History 
COMICS 
Jerks 
»EY. KIDS f AS YOU MAY HAVE NOTICED, IT'::. .SNOWING! 
WELL, HERE'S SOME" JERKS' TlP5 fOR WHAT TO DO WITH All THAI WHITt STUFF. 
Saint Mary's 
Pork Chops Spaghetti Cheese Fondue Deli Bar 
... 1/Nfl-meN I tf)()K !IT Tlfe VII5T WIJ/It.TH WITHIN 11£ tJeiK/TY OF 1li'IT {li/FFOI?It.. ... 

BUSINESS M/IJORS .•. COLLECT A<;. MU(H SNOW AS YOU C.AN, THEN SELL IT TO SKI ~E.SDR.TS. KIDS, SANTA 
CLAUS, ETC.. 


SEVENTHSIGN 
MKlJAEL BIEHN ntjURGEN PROOINOW 
I¥.NAV1SIONII> ATRI-sTAR REIJ'.ASE ~ -c I'JII8001.lJMNA PICIIJIIfli 
-.. ENI'FJitllNMfliiNC. D I! L P H I W.IUGIIIS RllllRI'ED 

59 Sincere 63 Bhutan's larger locale 64 Ball hosted by a 
king? 66 Harrow's rival 67 Nanook's craft 68 Go away, 
Garfield I 
69 Memo 
70 Sewers 
71 Goddess of 
youth 
DOWN 1 Chief 2 Singer-actress Minnelli 3 A biographer of Willa Cather 4 Short, to Verdi 
.. 
5 Lamented 
6 Dash 
ACROSS 
1 Pub orders 
Sin the hold 10 Mass 14 Take a taxi 15 Skip town with a 
lover 16 Aleutian isle 17 Prague couple? 19 Rack's partner 20 Peaceful 21 Proof of 
purchase 23 Seraglio 
chamber 24 Yule ditty 25 Cow, in a way 28 Conductor Akira 
30 Old Testament book 
34 Mythomaniac 36 Diva Berger 38 Maternally 
related 39 Prom-dress 
material 41 Kane's sled 43 Madrid festival 44 In--(in its 
original place) 46 Warble 47 Lock 48 Verbal invitation 50 Bess Truman, 
--Wallace 51 Picasso prop 54 Joplin work 56 Prepared to land 
a plane 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

7 Fate 22 Shows up 37 Funny Johnson a "Lulu" or 

24 Pro's opposite 

40Twangy"Louise" 
25 High up 9 North Sea 
42 Has a higher
26 Electrician feeder 
position
27 Tidal flood 10 Script for Bugs? 29W.C.T.U. 45 Under the backers 
weather
11 Needle case 31 Summer house 49 Chalcedony
12 Expectant 

32Carry-­variety13 Flat-bottomed (retain a melody) 
52 Antitoxinboat 
33 Tergiversate 

53 Tomato blight 18 London's -­35 Run a sugar 
Park 
Berke Breathed 

Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 
plantation? 55 Bite, in a way 
The Far Side 
56 City on the Orne 57 Ratio words 58 Kind of gun or 
squad 59 Actor Richard from San 
Francisco 60 Suffix with exist 61 Eschar 62 Place for a 
chapeau 65 A "Rocky" film 
Larson 



"Gad, thafs eerie.·... No maHer where you stand, the nose seems to follow." 
---·MATTHEWBRODERICK ____ 
FERRIS 
BUELLER'S 
DAYOFF 
One man's struggle to take it easy. 
TIMES: 8:00 & 10:15 PM CUSHING AUDITORIUM $2 
E~GINEns ... COUNT IT. PHILO MAJORs ... WALK AROUWD THE
1 q87,3~4,1H;
1 
LAKE: IN A 

1,~1'7, l;>.LJ,I~ 'lr; 
SPEE'DO. 

NO, WI'\ iT. .. 
OH, DAMN. _/ 
THE 
• I 







Sports 
Thursday, February 9, 1989

page 16 
•

Holtz, NO lure 25 prep stars 1n recruiting battle 



Take it from a native: Louisville can win it all 
I never have been too successful predicting win­weeks ago, Louisville lost its lead and the game. home the championship when the potential existed. ners of the NCAA basketball tournament, but I feel Without Ellison's on the court, the Cardinals lacked Usually, the team favored to win before the tourn­confident enough to pick this year's championship their usual championship style, ament does not because other uncontrollable fac­team. Louisville incurred two other losses on last­tors are involved. For example, the luck of the 
The parity in college basketball team makes any second shots by Vanderbilt and Xavier. In Monday's draw, the coaches' tournament experience and forecast difficult. But after much consideration, I loss to Florida State, the Cardinals were coming quality of the opponents all play major roles. have come to believe that the University of Louis­back when the buzzer sounded. Louisville has mastered the three-point shot, ville has a very good chance of winning the national Getting back to tradition, Coach Crum has it in-which had caused the Cards trouble when the rule title. Like the Los Angeles Lakers are in the NBA, was first initiated. Louisville also has some goodLouisville could be the college team of the 1980s. freshmen, which will add to the team's depth.
Jane
Under the superb coaching of Denny Crum, Louis­NBC's Al McGuire predicted Louisville to win it ville already has captured NCAA championships in all early in the year. His past coaching experience 
Shea
1980 and 1986. gives him obvious insight. 
If tradition means anything, Louisville is filled The fact that I have lived in Louisville since the with it. The two previous times the Cardinals won SMC Sports Writer age of seven gives me insight on the team's winning the tournament there was strong senior leadership tradition. Louisville's fan support extends beyond on the court. In 1980 it was Darrell Griffith. In 1986, stilled in him. Before coming to Louisville, he the campus. The entire city gives it tremendous Jeff Hall, Billy Thompson and Milt Wagner led the played and coached under John Wooden--one of the support. team. Pervis Ellison, the man who won the Final winningest coaches in college basketball. The Louisville football team had its first winning Four MVP award as a freshman in '86, is the one Tournament play is notoriously different than seasons in years last fall. Following in the winning who will provide the necessary leadership this year. regular season play. Coach Crum has proven his tradition, the basketball team should bring it all 
When Ellison was injured against Ohio State two ability to overcome tournament pressure and bring home this spring. 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame football team continued its winning streak Wednesday. 
It was another banner recruiting year, as 17 Super­Prep All-Americans were among the 25 high school foot­ball stars who signed national letters of intent to play for the Irish in 1989. 
"We worked at it probably as hard as we ever have," said Head Coach Lou Holtz, who guided Notre Dame to a 12-o record and the 1988 national championship in his third year at the helm. "I think we had a gt10d recruiting year, but you can't evaluate recruiting just based on one year. You have to evaluate it over a two-year per­iod." 
Quarterbacks and lineback­ers were Holtz's top priorities 

Irish sink Fordham in road trip, 77-58 
By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editor 
NEW YORK--Jamere Jack­son had 17 of his 23 points in the second half as the Notre Dame men's basketball team came away with a 77-58 win over Fordham at Madison Square Garden last night. 
But it took a 13-3 run over the first four minutes of the second half for the Irish to put the fiesty Rams away. 
"We started out in a press as always," said Irish coach Dig­ger Phelps, "so we could get easy transition baskets. Our team is very young and has a lot of heart. Fordham was very pesky tonight." 
Notre Dame (13-4) dominated a sloppy, low­scoring first half and assumed its largest lead of the half (31­
21) on a LaPhonso Ellis jam with 49 seconds remaining. But Fordham (10-11) scored the final five points, including a 3­point play by Doug Bantum as the buzzer sounded, to cut the lead to five points. 
Jackson opened the half by scoring nine of his team's next 13 points to put the Irish in the comfort zone. The junior co-this year, and the Irish at­recruit any last year, we felt it meter dash in 10.6 seconds. tracted plenty of talent at both was an absolute necessity to "We didn't sign many positions. bring in two this year." linebackers last year, and 
Notre Dame got the Six linebackers signed with since we lose Wes Pritchett, country's top-ranked quarter­Notre Dame, including All­Frank Starns and Flash Gor­back in Rick Mirer, a 6-3, 205-Americans Randy Scianna of don, that was another neces­pound Goshen native who was sity," Holtz said. "I think we named Midwest Offensive 
answered that." Player of the Year. Mirer led Notre Dame also received a Goshen High School to the state commitment from 6-4, 230­championship by completing pound tight end Irv Smith of 259 of 420 passes for 3,973 yards Pemberton, N.J., SuperPrep's and 30 touchdowns while rush­top-ranked tight end. Smith ing for 480 yards and 22 touch­was limited to 18 receptions in downs. a wishbone offense, and was an 
Jake Kelchner, a 6-3, 200-All-State selection at defensive pound quarterback from Ber­back. wick, Pa., also signed with the "Notre Dame right now is Irish. Kelchner also led his probably the most feared school to a state title and was school in college football," said SuperPrep's fourth-ranked Lou Holtz Chicago-based scout Tom Lem­signal-caller. Homewood, Ill., Demetrius ming, who rates Notre Dame's 
"I don't like to recruit five or Dubose of Seattle, Erik Simien recruiting class tops in the na­six quarterbacks and then of Gardena, Calif., and Shawn tion. "They turned down at move them and change them," Smith of Buena, N.J. least six All-Americans who Holtz said. "So we try to recruit Smith is a former state sprint were being recruited by every one a year. Because we didn't champion and has run the 100-school in the country." 
captain hit on all four of Notre 
Dame's three-point attempts 
for the game. 
"We know our offense is there," said Jackson, "but when our defense does the job we know we're in great shape. Tim Singleton did a great job of driving and then kicking it out to Joe (Fredrick) and myself for a lot of open shots." 
Fordham could come no closer than eight points during the last 16 minutes of the game, due largely to very poor shoot­ing. The Rams shot 19-for-52 for the game (36 percent) includ­ing 1-for-6 from three-point range. 
"Notre Dame's pressure bothered us all game long," said Ram coach Nick Macar­chuk. "It made us tentative and caused a lot of turnovers. They also did a great job on the boards." 
In the second half, the trio of • Jackson, Fredrick and Keith Robinson combined for 40 of Notre Dame's 46 points. Fredrick and Robinson finished with 19 points each. El­The Observer I Patrick Kusek lis added 10 for the Irish. Junior co-captain Jamere Jackson's shots were right on the mark 
Forward Joe Paterno was the last night as the Irish rolled over Fordham 77-581n Madison Square Garden Wednesday night. Jackson netted a team-high 23 points In see JACKSON, page 13 a winning cause. 
Another talent scout, Max 
Emfinger of Houston, rates 
Notre Dame's class second to 
Florida State's. 
Two other Regional Players of the Year signed with the Irish. Todd Norman of Ocean View, Calif., was named Far West Player of the Year, while running back Dorsey Levens of Syracuse, N.Y., was the North­east Offensive Player of the Year. 
Levens rushed for 1,300 yards and scored 22 touchdowns, in­cluding seven in one game. 
Wide receiver William Pol­
lard, a cousin of former Pit­
tsburgh Steeler Frank Pollard, 
has run the 100 meters in 10.4 
seconds. 
Notre Dame also signed a top kicker in Craig Hentrich of Al­ton, Ill. Hentrich made four field goals of 50 yards or longer 
see RECRUITS, page 13 
ND wrestlers cruise past Redskins 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
In last night's wrestling meet attheJoyceACC, Miami (Ohio) showed it had made great strides since its 40-3 loss to Notre Dame last season. 
But the Irish let Miami know they had improved as well, routing the Redskins 37-7. Al­though Notre Dame won by a big margin, Irish coach Fran McCann wasn't exactly satisfied with his team's per­formance. 
"We looked a little sluggish," said Irish coach Fran McCann, whose 13th-ranked squad upped its record to8-2. "We had a big match with Oklahoma last week and Indiana next week. This one was stuck in be­tween. But we came up tough. The kids who won, won big." 
Notre Dame lost 19-16 to eighth-ranked Oklahoma last Friday, and the Irish host the Hoosiers this Friday. 
Jerry Durso and Pat Boyd both had lost their first dual meet matches of the season against Oklahoma. The two 
see MIAMI, page 12 




