I ---m Sunshiny-again
/ACCENT: 'Mississippi Burning' reviewed 
Mostly sunny and warmer 
today. Highs in the lower 
50s. Partly cloudy and mild 
tonight. Lows in the lower

IVIEWPOINT: The battle for Revue tickets 40s.1:!] 

;~ VOL. XXII, NO. ~ TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 1989 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

8 Cana.dians die in Alaskan crash 
Associated Press "They canceled because of 
the equipment they lost (in the 
FAIRBANKS, . Alaska-­crash)," Mock said. "The Canada pulled out of joint cold­aircraft was bringing in equip­weather military exercises ment ranging from snow mac­Monday, the morning after hines to cold weather gear." eight soldiers were killed in the Military planners call Brim crash of a C-130 transport plane Frost "the premier cold wea­trying to land in icy fog at 50 ther training exercise in the degrees below zero. free world." But temperatures 
The four-engine Hercules plunging to more than 60 below was carrying eight crewmen zero during the past two weeks and 10 paratroopers from Ed­have been too much of a test. monton, Alberta, to participate The bitter cold has caused in Brim Frost '89 when it metal fatigue and rubber crashed Sunday night at the fatigue in trucks and aircraft, end of the runway at Fort stalling equipment and gener­Wainwright, said U.S. army ally slowing maneuvers, Mock Maj. Sherrel Mock. said. 
Three meri were in serious "But we've been able to land condition, one was listed as sta­aircraft," he said. ble and six others were being "Another Canadian C-130 held for observation at the had landed an hour earlier," he base's Bartlett Army Commu­said. "The third aircraft in the nity Hospital, Mock said Mon­flight was diverted to the Fair­day. banks airport because the run­
way was blocked." 
"We don't know if the cold The plane's last contact with weather had anything to do the control tower was at 6:47 with it," Mock said. "Teams p.m. There were no distress are out there right now, going calls from the crew before the through the wreckage. crash, Mock said. There was 
"The investigation is still in no explosion or fire after the its early stages. They're won­plane broke in two and skidded dering if it was the weather or to a halt about a quarter-mile something mecha.nical." down the runway, he said. 
A 450-man Canadian Six victims were dead on ar­
paratroop force was to support rival at the Army hospital and 
the U.S. army's 1st Brigade, two others died later, he said. 
6th Infantry Qj~ision (Light), About 26,000 servicemen, 120 
in a major land battle that was aircraft and 1,000 vehicles from 
the centerpiece of the Brim the U.S. army, Air Force, 
Frost ground exercises near Marines, Coast Guard, Na­
Fairbanks. tional Guard, Civil Air Patrol, 
But after the crash, reserve · units and Canadian 
Canadian officials canceled Forces were participating in 
their forces' participation and the arctic training exercise. 
recalled their remammg The $15 million exercise began 
aircraft and soldiers, Mock Jan. 20 and is to continue 
said. through Feb. 1. 


C-5 open for student parking 
Observer Staff Report 
Residents of four North Quad women's dorms have a lot to 

~ 
) 
.. be thankful for, after an area across from the Hesburgh Li­brary was converted for stu­dent parking this semester. 
l 
Observer Graphic 


The new lot, part of the B-2 faculty parking lot, was paved last semester and has been made a student parking lot for Breen-Phillips, Farley, Knott and Siegfried Halls, said Phil Johnson, assistant director of
AP Photo
Plane crash Notre Dame Security. Wreckage from a Hercules C-130 military transport is strewn over the Designated C-5, the new snow at Fort Wainwright Army Post in Fairbanks, Alaska, on Sunday. 
See PARK, page 3The plane crashed on landing, killing at least seven aboard. 

Old C-2 parking lot to be closed 
By BRADLEY GALKO the lot, said Johnson. trends have been examined, Staff Reporter Johnson said the construction and he believes there will be area will be enclosed by fence, "plenty of room" in B-2 for dis­
The C-2 parking lot, located but " ...half (of the lot) will placed C-2 sticker-holders. on Juniper road across from the remain open and available for Computing Center and Mathe­parking" during construction. It has not yet been deter­matics Building, will be closed Construction is scheduled to mined whether the C-2 lot will permanently at the end of this begin Thursday or Friday. continue to be used by faculty week, according to Phil .. Labelling the lots "inter­and students or if it will be used Johnson, assistant director of changeable," Johnson said by military officers after the Notre Dame Security. those with C-2 parking stickers completion of the ROTC build­
The University will close the who find the lot too crowded ing. "We haven't discussed northern half of the lot to make can park in lot B-2 across from how the parking will be reall­room for a new ROTC building the library. ocated...beyond this year," that is being constructed over Johnson said the parking Johnson said. 

Reagan 'subject to call' in trial 
come the first figure in the Reagan.
Associated Press 
Iran-Contra affair to stand tri­Gesell said North's lawyers 
WASHINGTON--Oliver al. have "made no showing that North's Iran-Contra trial will Many of the same witnesses President Bush has any spe­begin today with President who testified in the nationally cific information relevant and Bush free of a subpoena televised congressional material to the charges of the seeking his testimony but with hearings two years ago are ex­indictment which makes it nec­former President Reagan still pected to be called by the essary or appropriate to re­"subject to call," the judge in prosecutors, including former quire his appearance." the case said Monday. Attorney General Edwin 
Portions of Reagan's diary Meese III and North's secre­But "President Reagan shall also might be required as tary, Fawn Hall. remain subject to call on the evidence, U.S. District Judge At North's side will be Bren­... subpoena" served on him Gerhard Gesell ruled. dan Sullivan, an aggressive by North in December, Gesell However, he rejected North's Washington lawyer who also said in a three-page order. subpoena seeking Bush's tes­represented North before the The judge said Reagan timony in the trial in which congressional panels inves­wouldn't be called as a witness North faces 12 criminal tigating the Iran-Contra affair. "unless and until" the court is­

Opening soon The Observer/Jim Brake charges. At a hearing Friday, the gov­sues another order after giving 
When North, who was in­ernment had sought to quash the Justice Department and 

Robert Waddick, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, 
dicted last March, walks into North's subpoenas seeking tes­Reagan's lawyers an opportu­

the U.S. courthouse near the timony from both Reagan and nity to list their objections at a 

foot of Capitol Hill, he will be-Bush as well as records from hearing. 


The Observer Tuesday, Janua~31, 1989
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN

IN BRIEF 
A rattlesnake bite victim who did not seek medical treatment for the wound received during a church service has died, authorities said. Ernest Short, 41, of Teetersville, Kentucky, died at his father's horne Sunday. A 2-to 3-foot snake bit Short during a service Saturday at Ages Pentecostal Church, Venable said. Members of some strict fundamentalist Protestant churches believe the Bible directs them to handle poisonous snakes as evidence of their faith in Christ-Associated Press 


OF INTEREST 
Residence hall contracts for the 1989-90 academic year are due in the Office of Student Residences by 5 p.m. on this Thursday. Anyone turning in a contract after the deadline will not receive housing until all incoming fresh­men have been assigned in July. -The Observer 
Past NDE participants there will be a palanca writing session today at 9:30p.m. in the Pasquerilla West Chapel. Call Mark Bellafante at 283-3160 for· more information. 
-The Observer 

Summer Service Project applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns for eight-week projects. A tuition scholarship of $1,200 is granted to each partici­pant. Interested service opportunities all over the country sponsored by Notre Dame alumni clubs. Room and board is provided. Application deadline is tomorrow. -The Ob­server 
Saint Mary's Seniors graduate housing applications are due April 21, 1989; but don't wait too long. -The Ob­server 
All Juniors interested in working on the Welcoming Reception Committee are invited to attend a meeting at 
7:30 p.m. today in the JPW Office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Volunteer Opportunities in Latin America will be the topic of the meeting tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. For more information, contact Tony at 283-1505. -The Observer 
"Issues '89" will analyze the Bush administration's economic priorities and problems with Economics Profes­sor T.R. Swartz at 9 p.m. today on WVFI. -The Observer 
· AIESEC, the international organization of students in economics and business management, will have a meeting for new members today at 6 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 
Final sign-ups for the campus billiards tournament are today and tomorrow in the poolroom in LaFortune Student Center. Play begins on Thursday. -The Observer 
The Great Chili Cook-Off will be featured at dinner today in both dining halls. Students are asked to cast a vote for their favorite chili while enjoying a Mexican Fiesta. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 


Design Editor .................. Kathy Huston Accent Designer ...... .......... Alison Cocks Design Assistant ............ Karen Newlove Typist . . ... . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Wil Zamer Typesetters.......................... Mike Kolar ........................................ Diana Bradley ...... : ....................................... Tim Kiefer ND Day Editor ... Christine Dombrowski News Editor...................... Michelle DaU SMC Day Editor ............... Maura Reidy Copy Editor ....................... Missy Weber Photographer ......... Jim Brake Sports Copy Edilor............. . . . Pete Skiko Ads Designer .........Jeff She!mach Viewpoint Layout ............ .. Laura Manzi .................Va! Po!!eto Accent Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . Kathy Lenney ..................... . ................. Chris Nee 
............ Tamy Martinez 
TM ot.enoer (USPS '99 2-4000) is published Monday throu111 Friday except 4urina eum and vacation periods. TM OIMener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collcac. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year($~ per semester) by writing Tille ot.en>er, P .0. BOx Q, Notre Dame, Indiana ot6H6. 
TM ot.en>er is a member of TM ..u.odaled P181. All reproduction riahts arc reserved. 


Sports Illustrated sinks with swimsuit issue 
Hey guys, it's just one week away. 
You've been waiting for it since last February; it's the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue. 
Now you can get your cheap thrills under the auspices of a legitimate "sports" magazine. 
Forget the humiliation of having to walk into a store and face the cashier who looks like the babysitter you had when you were seven and actually buy your soft-core pornography. Or take the ribbing from your dorm mail person for your monthly black wrapped arrival. Mter all, imagine your mother's disappointment if by some accident your Playboy or Penthouse subscription were to find its way to your horne during the summer. 
But what could be safer than Sports Il­lustrated? Your mother probably gave you your subscription for your thirteenth birthday. Maybe she renews it every year for Christmas. 
In keeping with the tradition of the past twenty-five years, America's most popular publication devoted to sports will abandon shots of muddy football players grinding one another into the dirt and sweaty basketball players get­ting elbowed and will for one week instead deluge its readers, lucky women inclusive, with photos of bodacious females wrapped in, well, almost nothing. 
Harmless, you say. Hardly, I say. 
Two prevailing sentiments can be found at Notre Dame. There are men with bad attitudes about women and women with bad attitudes about themselves. The swimsuit issue propagates both. 
Men have a host of excuses for why exactly they "read" this issue. Simple aesthetic ap­preciation of beautiful women, for example. The high caliber of the photographs, for an­other. Or maybe it's a chance to see the exotic locations. Maybe it's art. The legally minded claim freedom of the press. 
The swimsuit issue has nothing to do with swimsuits and nothing to do with photography. The issue at hand is not the issue itself, but rather what it stands for and what it leads to. 
The swimsuit issue is plainly and simply a representation of women as sexual objects and playthings. 
Moreover, it leads the reader to a false ex­pectation of what women really are like. It seems the fitness craze has made very little progress in reforming the ideas of what a wo­man's body should look like from the Twiggy look of the Sixties. The ideal Barbie-like figure seems to prevail, although now women are sup­posed to have muscles too and look good in Spandex. 
The swimsuit issue is an opportunity for Notre Dame men to compare women at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to the women in the photos. Look around you. Think about the most beau-

tiful woman you know. I mean personally. Or 
that cute girl in your 1: 15 class. 
But compare her to the goddesses in SI and 
she probably looks pretty homely. And she 
surely looks pretty fat. 
Now look at the guys in your classes. Are 
they trim, athletic deities? In some cases, per­
haps. · 
Do women on campus really eat more ice 
cream than men? Do they wear sweats more 
often? What if by general female decree we 
made it socially unacceptable to, say, wear ,baseball caps to brunch on the weekends? 
It's true that women criticize men, physically 
and otherwise, but in no such conspiritive way. 
There is no national campaign in which women 
devote a week to gazing at photos and wishing 
their husbands and boyfriends looked like Greg 
Louganis or Torn Selleck. Most women would 
be too busy to do that anyway. 
Women on this campus are an easy target. 
Boys will be boys, it can be argued, but boys 
grow into men who become fathers and leaders 
and influencers. The damage done through 
subtle subjugation of women like the swimsuit 
issue is not negligible. 
Men on this campus spend a lot of time com­plaining about the women here and very little time doing anything about it. The same guys who will spend half of next week drooling over SI (their roommates will have their copies the other half) will most likely spend next weekend sitting around a dorm room, drinking beer and talking about how ugly and boring the women here are. 
If you would try actually (gasp) asking one out or getting to know one, you might actually discover, despite the normal proportions and looks, she could be a genuinely interesting per­son. 



Tuesday, Janua~31, 1989 
Hesburgh speaks on public service 
Throw me something mister 
AP Photo 

Mardi Gras float riders are greeted by a sea of hands and a 
traditional c~ of "throw me something mister" as the parade rolls 
through the streets of New Orleans Sunday afternoon. Spring like 
temperatures greeted the riders much to the delight of all. 

SPRING BREAK 
SEMINARS 
March 5-11 APPALACHIA
WASHINGTON 
INTERDEPENDENCE
THE GLOBAL EDITION 
In the mountains .... 




Park 
continued from page 1 
parking lot was created to 
reduce crowding in D-2, the stu­
dent parking lot for most North 
Quad dorms, Johnson said. 
"D-2 was crowded, and there 
was a reluctance to park near 
the back. C-5 should substan­
tially reduce the crowding in 
D-2 and be more convenient for 
the residents of Breen-Phillips, 
Farley, Siegfried and Knott 
Halls," he said. 

Security has sent letters to the four halls' residents whose cars are currently registered in D-2, Johnson said. "Residents of these dorms may trade in their D-2 decals for C-5 decals at no expense," he added. 
The new lot, designed to ac­commodate a maximum 170 of cars, "cost about $85,000, which included fencing and lighting." 
By CHRISTINE WALSH Staff Reporter 
The bottom line of public ser­vice is "You can change the world," according to Father Theodore Hesburgh, who spoke in a lecture Monday for the Hesburgh Program in Public Service. 
"I have to confess from the onset, I never in my life had a class in public policy," ad­mitted Hesburgh. He claimed that all of his knowledge in the public policy area came from practical experience, starting in 1954 with an appointment to the board of the National Sci­ence Foundation by President Eisenhower, and continuing even today. 
There are two kinds of public service, according to Res­burgh. The first is in the gov­ernment area, and the second in the private sector. 


JUNIORS 
II Juniors Planning to Apply t Health Professional Schools 
FIRST MEETING 
DATE:WEDNESDAV,FEB 1,1989 TIME: 7:00 PM PLACE: 127NIEUWLAND 
SCIENCE HALL 
PLEASE MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO AlTEND 
WeaUa.,. Monday ~off 14" or 18" meatball sub 
Two-Buck T.-.day 
Why Not Wednesday? Why not order any cold sub and receive 25• off your purcl:lase 
In the public sector, Res­burgh said he has served on such commissions as the Na­tional Commission on Civil Rights, the State Department Commission on Education and Cultural Mfairs and as an am­bassador to the United Nations. 
In the private sector, Res­burgh has served the Rockefel­ler Foundation to alleviate such problems as world hunger. 
Although he played many roles in the shaping of public policy in past administrations, Hesburgh said all he did under President Reagan was get "shot at in El Salvador." He was sent down to the country to check the running of the na­tional elections there. 
Having once declined a posi­tion as Director of NASA, Res­burgh explained that he tried to take only those jobs that per­tained to either Notre Dame or his priestly service. Hesburgh added, "I try not to attach myself to a political party-I'm an independent." 


Being involved in so many projects at once takes a lot of time, even if is a part-time job, said Hesburgh, but "It's a sat­isfying thing if you can get something done." He added, "Wherever you go, in the world, you meet interesting people," which is an added benefit to working in the area of public service. 
"I was pretty square," ad­mitted Hesburgh, who said he had to give up golf, bridge and all remnants of a social life in order to keep up with his work schedule. 
One of the greatest rewards of public service is that "You can face God at the end of life and say, 'I tried to love my neighbor,"' said Hesburgh. 
SMC strives for minority awareness 
The Observer Is always lqqklng fqr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 
"The Lilly Endowment grant will be used not only to es­tablish the position of the MINT director, but also to institute programs • that increase minority enrollment by meeting the academic and so­cial needs of these students," he said. 
Saint Mary's is also taking further steps to inform stu­dents about the plight of minority students by bringing in several speakers, such as the poet Gwendolyn Brooks and Jacob Holdt, renowned lecturer and author of "American Pic­tures." 
In the 1970's, Holdt traveled throughout the U.S. and re­corded his observations of the poverty-stricken he encoun­tered. In his book, he says he believes many people in the United States are unaware of the plight of the under­privileged. 
"Holdt saw and experienced much of the human deprivation that many of us are not even aware of," said Joseph Incan­dela, assistant professor of re­ligious studies at Saint Mary's. 
Holdt has lectured at several universities, including Har­vard, Yale and the University of California at Berkley. His presentation will take place 

By ANGELA MCDONALD News Staff 
Recently Saint Mary's Col­lege was the recipient of a $75,000 institutional develop­ment grant from Lilly Endow­ment,Inc. According to Brett McLaughlin, public information specialist at Saint Mary's, this grant will be used to implement a diversification program for the Saint Mary's community. 
McLaughlin said one of the main features of the program will be the appointment of a MINT (minority, international and non-traditional aged stu­dent) director. 
February 26 at 7 p.m. in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. 
According to Incandela, "This presentation will forever change the way students think about America, poverty and justice." 

You can change the world. 
INFORMATION NIGHT Tuesday January 31 at Center for Social Concerns Washington 7-8 pm Appalachia 8:30-9:30 pm 

Tuesday, Janua~31, 1989
page 4 The Observer 

~~ Soviets head north, leave Afghanistan 
Associated Press "We will be back when the con­flict is over." 
KABUL, Mghanistan--Marine guards brought down Marine guards lowered the flag the Stars and Stripes, gently for the last time Monday, and folded the flag and handed it to the U.S. embassy staff Glassman, who walked to a prepared to depart before the small slab of marble on the Red Army leaves Kabul's fate other side of the compound that to Mghan soldiers and Moslem honors Adolph Dubs, the guerrillas who wait in the hills. former U.S. ambassador. 
"As we say goodbye, we say, 'God bless the United States,"' Dubs was kidnapped, then said Charge d'Mfaires John killed along with his abductors Glassman, the ranking Ameri-when soldiers tried to rescue can diplomat still in Kabul, at him Feb. 14, 1979. U.S. officials the solemn ceremony. still do not know the motive. 
"Today we leave at a mo-Soviet soldiers entered M­ment that is both happy and ghanistan's civil war nine sad, pleased that the people of years ago and are to be gone
United States Marines car~ a folded American flag final Soviet troop withdrawal from Afganistan. 
Afghanistan are going to be by Feb. 15 under a U.N.­
in a simple ceremony Monday as the U.S. right. 
relieved of their suffering, but mediated agreement. Moslem
embassy in Kabul closed down on the eve of the 
we know their struggle is not insurgents, who get most of over. their support from the United "The people of the United States and Pakistan, were not
Foreign study steady d,espite terrorism 
States are with them," Glas-parties to the agreement and also talk to the directors of the sman said, raising the folded predict victory soon after the
By CATHY FLYNN withdrawals from students programs overseas, and they flag above his head in a salute. Red army is gone.
News Staff planning to participate in the make the decisions as to what .---.....::..____________....::...____:::..;__;_____,
program, but they never came. 
Although terrorism is often a "I was surprised that none of action we should take." l major concern for students the students voiced any con­The directors of the program j 
STUDENT planning to study abroad, cerns to' me," Gutting said. teach students how to behave ALUMNIAnastasia Gutting, director of Some of the students who had so they can avoid becoming tar-1 
the Notre Dame London pro­been in London for the Fall se­gets of anti-American aggres-l RECEPTION gram, says the recent Pan Am mester had known some of the sion themselves, according to j incident has not caused enroll­Syracuse students, she said. Charles. She says the students j Come mingle ment in foreign study pro­There have never been any are told not to congregate in with grams to decline. cases of terrorism involving "American" places, such as 1 Alumni 
"It's like crossing the Notre Dame students in any McDonalds, and not to be bois-~' in the street," said freshman Julie foreign study program, accor­terous and loud. Gold Room White, who intends to study in ding to Isabel Charles, associ­"When students have had of Austria next semester. "You ate provost and director of the that kind of experience (going i North Dining Hall can't let those things (terrorist Foreign Studies Program. He abroad), they form an under-j threats) stop you from living said the Jerusalem program standing of the United States 
Febuary 2, 1989

life to the fullest." was cancelled last Spring, that they didn't have before," The Pan Am flight 103 dis­however, due to the country's Gutting said. "Seeing the 
Sponsored by SARG and ND Alumni Association 
aster, in which 30 Syracuse stu­unstable and potentially dan­United States through another dents died, occurred right gerous political situation. culture is a growth experi­before Notre Dame students "If there is a problem, we ence." left to study in London for the stay in close contact with the Spring semester. Gutting said American Embassy in that 
JPW SEATING
she had expected possible country," Charles said. "We 
All former seating arrangements have been voided
Senate meets, sets student 
due to inconsistencies in numerous responses . 
. government election dates 
Come to the CCE THIS WEEK on Tues or Wed 
By FLORENTINE be used to assign letter grades 
from 2-10.

HOELKER to both professors and courses. Staff Reporter A pep rally for the National 
You must bring I D's for every person you wish to be
Championship football team Student Senate Monday eve­will be held on February 7 in 
seated with. 

ning discussed the upcoming the JACC. According to Student 
Maximum 9 I D's per person. 
student government elections, Body President Tom Doyle, the and a variety of other issues rally promises to be a "gala af­
Questions? Call 239-6028 between 2 and 9 p.m. 
and events were discussed. fair," with the presentation of Candidates planning to run trophies and highlight films of 
on M, T, WorTh night.
for the offices of president, the football season. vice-president and senator •••••••••••
may pick up petitions for office · •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• on February 14· The petitions •• FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN • 
are due on February 17, and -­campaigning begins February e • 19 and ends February 26. Pri-e e 
mary elections will be held e TRANSITION INTO THE SOPHOMORE YEAR e February 27. e The senate also discussed the e 
possibility of student body co-e AN INFORMATIONAL PROGRAM e presidents, but decided that an e by • accurate interpretation of the •• EMIL T. HOFMAN ••
student government constitu­tion prohibited such a possibil-e 
ity. e DEAN OF THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES 
Student government said e • they, along with the Office of e jn the • Student Mfairs, are actively • e working on the problem of off-e 
campus crime. Student Body • ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM Vice-President Mike Paese e • 
saidmeetingsarebeingsched-e TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 6:30P.M. e uled with both the mayor and • • the police chief of South Bend e to deal with the problem. • and • 
"We in student government e e and the Office of Student M-e 
fairs are very concerned. stu-e WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1 6:30 P.M. e dent Affairs is on top of the • e issue of off-campus crime," e 
Paese said. e (Both programs will be the same. Every freshman should plan to attend one.) e Teacheii"course evaluation e forms are also ready to be sent e FREsH MEN FREsHMEN· FREsHMEN •• 
to the student body. The forms a.. 
contain eight questions and will ._.•••ee.e e •••••••e•••••••••e e e ••e e e e.ee e • e e e e e. 





New national health care system is proposed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--A commis­sion including three former presidents proposed a national health care system Mondaay that would ensure access to basic. medical services for all Americans with financing by all but the poorest. 
The system is designed to ex­tend health care to the esti­mated 37 million Americans who are uninsured, to curtail soaring health costs and to im­prove the quality of medical care nationwide, said the Na­tional Leadership Commission on Health Care. 
The proposed "strategy of providing access by asking every American to take respon­sibility for his or her own care and to assume a very small share of the cost of those who cannot assume that responsi­bility is eminently fair," the commission said in its report. 
Without change in the na­tion's health care system, costs are expected to grow from the current $550 billion a year to $1.5 trillion by the year 2000, said Paul Rogers, a former Democratic congressman from Florida who co-chaired the commission with former Iowa Gov. Robert Ray, a Republi­can. 
The commission-supported by 38 corporations, unions and foundations-spent two-and-a­half years preparing . the 

report.  Three  former  
presidents- Richard  Nixon,  
Gerald  Ford  and  Jimmy  

Carter-served as honorary co­chairmen. 
The proposed system would continue a major role for private insurance coverage and would encourage employers to extend such coverage to more employees. 
All Americans would be cov­ered by a basic package of medical services, which would be the minimum coverage for all private health insurance plans and for a publicly funded benefits pool. 
Many workers would con­tinue to get privately financed coverage as an employment benefit, with the employer paying most or all of the premium, and they could add to that coverage ifthey wanted. Also the federal Medicare in­surance program for older and disabled Americans would con­tinue. 
Everyone else would be cov­ered by the pool called the Uni­versal Access program. Medicaid, the federal health in­surance program for the poor, would be abolished and its recipients would be covered by the new program. 


The Universal Access pool would be financed by all employers and by all individ­uals not covered by Medicare who have incomes above 150 percent of the poverty level. The schedule of fees would be designed to encourage employers to offer coverage to employees and improve coverage under some existing plans. 
"There is strong incentive to keep the pool of people falling into the public sytsem as small as it can be," said Uwe Rein­hardt, a Princeton University professor of economics and member of the commission. 
Iceberg debates results 
The results of first round of the Iceberg Debates Mon­day night are: 
Alumni (pro) 74 vs. Dillon 59 Badin (con) 93 vs. Carroll 90 Farley (con) 97 vs. Breen-Phitlips 92 Fisher (pro) 83 vs. Howard 71 Flanner (pro) 72 vs. Grace I 69 Lewis (pro) 90 vs. Holy Cross 83 Stanford (con) 76 vs. Keenan 73 PE (con) 87 vs. Grace II 75 PW (con) vs. Off-Campus Lyons (con) 90 vs. Pangborn 83 Sorln (pro) 92 vs. Morrissey 89 St. Ed's (pro) 79 vs. Walsh Cavanaugh (pro) 91 vs. Knott 82 Zahm (pro) 80 vs. Siegfried 65 
Each hall debated on the topic, "Is the Republican Party platform in conflict with Catholic social teaching?" 

with COMEDIAN 
STEVEN KIMBROUGH 
in Daytona Beach 
Will Be Appearing at Theodore's April 6, 9:00pm & at St. Mary's Feb. 20. 
ceL.,.U. c....uv !riESj] coMEDJANS
Tell ~ .::!:~.·.:.:.:.:.•­
• 
Round trip motor coach transportation via luxury highiYay coaches to Daytona Beach. Florida . Unlike others. we use lhe newest style buses available. 

• 
Pool deck parties and activities every single day featuring the famous Echo Belly Flop contest. 

• 
Optional excursions available to Disney World. Epcot. party ship, and more. 

• 
An entire list of bar and restaurant discounts to save you money at places you would go anyway. 

• 
The services of full time travel representatives to throw parties and take great care of you. 


Best Hotels­Guaranteed Our hotels surpass
the competition In quality Please Compare Best Location in Daytona Don't let apoor location ruin your trip -(the Daytona strip Is 23 miles longl) 
Shouting Distance from Everything The top bars. restaurants. expos and 
lrae concerts (not a taxi ride away, like other trips) Top of the Line Luxury Coaches For the most comlortable party trip lo Florida. 
Pool Deck Parties Every Day The hoHest. biggest parties in 
Daytona Beachl 
You might find acheaper trip.but why risk yourSpring Break cash on a cheap imitation!! 
$'\99 



DAI'IO 
* * • laawtnaDiytgna'•hallaiS;rlaglnikbat&U * * * 
lU&II lloiVUIIO&I lrTUILI.TIGILI.L TUVUOtlCl CU... ...___
....~~,~ wurm PUl.l
1 round trip alrfre ticket $223.00 ...._, .._
=·..=;-.:... ::::~=--=-::.=.::::: ~.':.::.. =~=· 
• • fEATURING PADRE'S PREMIERE ACI:O.,MOOATIOHS * * * 
*For More info: contact Steven Kimbrough 
at 1(219) 288-0245lor write P.0. Box 56 South Bend, IN 46624 *Or be at our Springbreak nights every Thurs. night at City lites and every Friday nite at nitelites. City lites Feb 16. 1989 For our Famous Banana eating contest. 
Nite lite for our exciting: Dance Contest Jan 20 & 27, 1989 Comedy Bowl Feb 3, 198.9 Super Hot Body Events Feb.1 0 & 17, 1989 
Springbreak '89 & Comedy 
T-Shirts also available . Contest Rule Call toda . 
I. Grand Prize includes 7 days 6 night in sunny Daytona Beach for 2 plus round !rip motor coach fare. 2. Register anywhere available. 3. Deposit each entry at any panicipating merchant. 4. To increase chances to win enter as often as like . .5. No purchase necessary, and there is no cost or obligation to enter.6. Entrants must be 18 years of age or older. 7. Final deadline for entries is Wed. Feb 18, 1989. 8. Daytona Beach winners will be selected by a random drawing held of Feb 20, 1989.9. Chances to win are based on number of enlries submitted. I0. Winnen wiU be notified by phone, consent for picture and story is needed. Winner will be announced on Zip 104 (week of Feb 20, 1989). II. The Vacation prize is non-transferable to any other penon nor can il 
be cashed in. 
Listen to 
t%1P104wup 
~---,~--~M-
Win A Trip For Two to Daytona 
Address Ph. 
Wk 

----~
-~ ---------~--------­


Viewpoint
p8Qe6 
Tuesday, Janua~31, 1989 
Chaos reigns in ticket line 
Q.-What pairs all the excitement of a will of the mob, they intended to do just world class bout and all the name­that, whether it be to the clever guy calling of WWF wrestling? with the megaphone yelling, "Please A.-Keenan Revue ticket distribu­form a single-file line," or the poor soul 
tion. 
Gregory Coughran 
guest column 

All hell broke loose as one over­zealous student made a break for the Gate 10 entrance at the Joyce ACC on Friday. And to think I took that class, Psychology of The Mob 101, just for kicks. Finally, a chance to put my class-· room knowledge to good use. So what did I do when the whole mob broke and ran for the entrance? Let me just say that while the will of a mob is a powerful thing, individual will is stronger. I walked, sacrificing a good place, but preserving my dignity. I did, however, beat the guy on crutches. It was rather easy after I kicked them from under his arms. There was a lesson to be learned from the witty repartee that took place too. 
When the mob finally silenced, and a student in the front said, "They're out of tickets," he was greeted with a cheery chorus of "Crucify him, crucify him!" And judging by the collective 
Doonesbury 
r  
-Ih-e-Obse.~~er-­-­-. ----A.~Y~ --·­ Editorial Board  Operations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre, Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef  Chros Murphy  Busmess Managet  John Oxroder  
Managmg Ed1tor  Chros Donnelly  Advert1smg Oes1gn Manager  Molly K1llen  
News Ed1tor  Reg1s Cocc1a  Advertlsmg Manager  Londa Goldschmidt  
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of  News Ed1tor  Mark McLaughlin  Production Manager  Bernadette Sh1ils  
Notre Dame du Lac and Saont Mary's College It does not necessaroly reflect the pollc1es of  V1ewpomt Ed1tcn  .... Dave Bruner  Systems Manager  Mark R1dgeway  
the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther 1nstltut10n. The news IS reported as accurately and objeCtively as  Sports Editor  Marty Strasen  Controller  Todd Hard1man  
poss1ble Uns1gned ed1toroals represent the op1mon of the maJOrity of the Ed1toroal Board  Accent Ed1tor  Beth Healy  Graph1c Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Commentaroes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of theor authors Column  Samt Mary's Ed•tor  Sandy Ceromele  
space IS ava1lable to all members of the community and the free express1on of vary1ng  Photo Ed1tor  M1chael Moran  
op1noons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged  
Founded November 3,1966  

wearing the USC hat. 

Unfortunately, it was short people like myself who suffered. We were crushed, our hands were pinned, and we couldn't get any air. Now I was de­termined to get a ticket for myself and that special someone who would be my companion, but I would never resort to 
screaming, "I gotta puke, I gotta puke," just to get a better position. There had to be a better way. There was "Look, there goes Lou Holtz!" Then came the shock. 
Someone screamed, "Monk, Monk!" What a relief. Father Malloy could straighten out his "Notre Dame com­munity." But imagine my shock when I saw Monk try to bite someone. Worse yet, Monk was now down among the feet of the angry mob. In his defense, I think he was more scared than angry. I guess I should mention that Monk was someone's pet dog, but nevertheless, what kind of place was this for animals? Er, rather, what kind of place 
was  this  for  domesticated  animals?  
Surely  we  were  teaching  him  bad  
habits.  

But wait! The guy with the megap­hone came up with a better idea-­



..."AND THE OJNTRIJV&R..SIAL. FINDINGS ABOUT 708ALL.O 
U5& SHOUL-D NOT Be U5W 
7V /?!3PRJV& 5/YIOK&!<S OF TH£3/R. RJGH'T5 AS OT/zeN5!" 
7HANK?, \ PAD1 ----­

"Please form two lines." I had to ad­mit, it was twice as good as his first idea. I guess I should probably make an honest attempt at rectifying this all­too-frequent Notre Dame experience. Well, here goes. 
Giving credit where credit is due, I liked the idea of one of the students in front of me--selling the tickets. This would discourage those who really have little interest. But if they stood in 'line that long under those circumstances, surely they wanted the tickets? I assure you that many people would have preferred to leave when things started getting nasty, but there was no way to get out. We were literally sardines in a can. 
Another bonus, Keenan Hall could donate the admission fees to charity. What better way for the Notre Dame community to prove our commitment to improved relations with the local communities? Distribution might also work better if they formed lines by the first digit of our student ID's. I'll admit it, it was humorous at times, but it was also disgusting. 
All I'm saying is there must be a bet­ter way. And to that special person who will get the opportunity to accompany me, I say, "If you knew what I went through to get these tickets, you'd think of a better excuse than 'I have to wash my clothes that night.'" 
Gregory Coughran is a sophomore in the College of Business. 
P.O. Box Q 
Soviet promises remain empty 
Dear Editor: 
When, oh when, will we learn? How many times will the West be duped into accepting the empty promises of the new leadership of the Kremlin? Will the true nature of Mr. Gorbachev's "reform" movement ever be told? 
The latest atrocity in Afghanistan should come as no surprise to the West. The slaughter of civilians has become a way of life in the "Soviets' Vietnam" (a ludicrous analogy, yes, but one the media enjoys using). For the inventors of the toy bomb (an explosive shaped like dolls used to teach Afghan children the meaning of war), senseless killing has become commonplace, a blurb on the 6 p.m. news. The hundreds of inno­cent victims caught under Soviet ar­tillery bombardment last week were not so lucky. 
What should the West's response be, then, to the Soviet slaughter of civilians and the creation of tension so thick that our embassy had to be closed? Our out­rage should take the form of the only policy the Soviet Union has ever understood--that is, swift and deliberate action. Stinger missles, rifles, and bandages for the Mujahedeen are the answer, and ship­ment should begin immediately. Press conferences and Congressional denun-
Garry Trudeau 
fOR IN5TANC£, THE OF {.OUR5t. . FACT JHAT NlaJ-A51S THe ANI? TH£3 
AU.. OF7H&MTIN& 15 AS ADl?IC.-a..AIM ?HAT 390,000 

CONTROV&R.­

TIV& AS H&RDIN PA551V8 IJ&AlHS '3/AL.' PE£PLY
f5 1'CONTROV8R-511101</N615 A YEAR.'! 
015Pffft3[)1

SIAL..;' /i?JarT; 1?/11??
I I I 
ciations will not turn back the best equipped war machine the world has ever known. 
Let us judge Mr. Gorbachev by the same standard our own leaders must exist under. If Mikhail Gorbachev knew of this raid, he is a baby-killing monster who deserves only the enmity of the West. If he did not know he should have, and a re-examination of Mr. Gorbac­hev's role and power is in order. Whatever the case, murdering hundreds of civilians to protect escape routes is not the kind of policy we have come to expect from leaders committed to peace. 
Nothing of any importance has, changed in the Soviet Union. Commu­nist revolutions are still funded across the globe, vicious pass-laws continue to restrict travel and freedom, babies still die in what many have termed the most brutal war in all of history. Prove me wrong when I disagree that Mr. Gor­bachev renounces the ideology of per­sonal and economic slavery. Free thousands of Jews who yearn for freedom of worship. Tear the Berlin Wall down and open up your client states to free elections. Keep your word, and remove your occupying forces from every inch of Afghan soil. Until then, all the West has is a basket­ful of empty promises. 
Robert Paul Viar Off-Campus Jan. 29, 1989 
Quote of the Day 

"Life is far too important a thing to ever talk seriously about it." 
Oscar Wilde 

---~---~--~-----­
.......__.____ 
-



Accent 
Tuesday, Janua~31, 1989 page 7 
Viewers reminded of horrors of South 

suspect includes the town's South. Cross burnings and 
Gene Hackman (Rupert Anderson) and W!llem Dafoe (Alan Ward) star In riveting segregation film, 
Sheriff's Department. But lynchings did happen. 
neither agent can prove their Mississippi Burning. -Relations between whites 
suspicions. "These people crawled out derson has all the confessions asks the mayor. and blacks have come a long of the sewers, Mr. Ward. he needs. "Yeah, it's the only time way since 1964, but "Missis­The straitlaced, by-the-book Maybe the gutter is the place The FBI agents bring in the where a black man can wave sippi Burning" is a painful Special Agent Alan Ward we have to be." conspirators, who are con-a stick at a white man with-reminder of the temper of <Dafoe) can't figure out his The hard-nosed Anderson, victed, but only of civil rights out starting a riot." Hackman that time. partner, Agent Rupert Ander­attracted to Mrs. Clinton Pell, violations. Most were sen-and Dafoe are excellent to-It will shock some and son (Hackman), a streetwise the local deputy's wife, gets tenced to 10 years in prison. gether in the film. Hackman anger most viewers, but the former Mississippi sheriff from her information suffici-Filmed in several small is very believable as a film serves as a warning that who doesn't care how much ent to put her husband and towns near Jackson, Missis-Southerner turned FBI agent. the bigotry and hatred which he bends the law for the sake the five other Klan con-sippi, this is a hard-hitting One of the film's most poig-inflamed Mississippi during ­of justice. Ward, unable to spirators behind bars. After film that is suspenseful, and nant scenes is a group Ku the turbulent 1960s can sur­get any leads on the three Deputy Pell discovers the at times shocking, from Klux Klan waiting outside a face today if society becomes murdered Civil Rights leak, he savagely beats his beginning to end. Its depiction church to attack blacks as complacent. workers, reluctantly agrees to wife in front of his fellow con-of segregation in the South they leave an evening church This film has the all the let Anderson do it his way. spirators. and the violence that erupted service. A young black boy makings of a great movie and "Just don't lose sight of Anderson then applies bul-between blacks and whites is who kneels down to pray for should be a strong contender whose rights we're violating," lying tactics of his own, such startlingly realistic. help is ruthlessly beaten by a for Picture of the Year 
Ward tells Anderson. as setting up three FBI A casual dialogue between Klansman and told not to tell honors. It closes on a chipped"Don't sit me on your agents as Klansmen who Anderson and the town's the FBI anything. tombstone that says "1964 ... perch, Ward." threaten to lynch one of the mayor reveals the deeply An angry Ward asks his not forgotten." Viewers won't "Don't drag me down to conspirators. Several un-rooted hatred of blacks. "You partner, "Where does it come soon forget "Mississippi Bur­your gutter, Anderson." scrupulous scenes later, An-like baseball, Mr. Anderson?" from, all this hatred?" He ning." 

Rush fans will be slow to buy new album 
. 

JIM DOPPKE live. It is an oft-repeated die-hard fans what they want "The Rhythm Method," Neil Mann of 'Til Tuesday). Still, 
I
accent writer story: a band which has --the trademarks of Rush: Alex Peart's pointless but obliga­too much of the record seems based its career on distinct, Lifeson's ersatz David Gil­tory drum solo which, though to be oriented towards f you're a Rush fan, I unique music for a select mour guitar riffing, Neil replete with technical generic hard rock with only 
hereby issue an apology group of the listening market Peart's lightning-quick-but­prowess, shows much less vague lyrical content; the 
--not for what I'm going to say (frequently adolescents) gets never-out-of -step drumming, innovation, spirit, or out-and­album's final song, "Closer to
about them and their latest on stage and can think of Geddy Lee's hilariously out rage of other "great" the Heart, "is a neo-REO
album, a double live set nothing to do but become a histrionic vocals. But the rock drummers such as Keith Speedwagon cliche which, 
called A Show of Hands, but 
caricature of themselves, a question which must be asked Moon or John Bonham. The though it agitates for "a new 
as a consolation that the band human jukebox --between fif­of this album is, so now that album does have its good mentality I Closer. to the
has put out such a disappoint­
teen and twenty of your fa­we all know that the band is points, however; their heart," elicits about as muching album as this. vorite hits played as you going to make serious bucks modern classic "Subdivi­heart-tugging emotion as,This album, like other un­know and love them for only on this album due to the in­sions," a classy handling of say, breakfast. 
fortunate live albums, makes $17.50! Lame T-shirts extra! 
evitable response from their the traditional "teen rebelling So what does it all mean? It 
one wonder what the band's So this album is "good" in ...
already-established market, against social cliques" rock means that once again, Rush
ideas are about performing the sense that it gives the what else does the record theme, showcases the band at has dragged out the "melodic accomplish? What does it all their majestic best. Also, they hard rock with trickymean? Quite a problematic seem to resolve their recent rhythm" formula and this question for many bands, but identity crisis (i.e., their time put crowd noise behind for Rush it is especially strong grounding in hard rock it (although even that is tough, since their recent cata­combining with emerging pop played down in the mix, log of songs has very little instincts) to an extent with producing an image of the unity in the first place, it is the ballad "Time Stand band's onstage manner as hard to think up a concept to Still; " it sounds like a pop aloof and distant). Yes, it will hold this album together. The tune, but it is tender and ap­probably sell. Yes, Rush fans, songs here range from the pealing nonetheless (due in no excusing its superficiality and anti-capitalist ''The Big small part to the wonderful buying it for the tunes, will Money" to the anti-everything backup singing of Aimee probably like it. No, I don't. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
1\\f>.TS TilE PRoBLEM. 
~'{Q\) 
1-\RP Mt. 
1\\\~\(. (Jr ~ME.l 
(Ol.J\..D 00" 

--------------------~ 
Tuesday, Janua~31, 1989
page 8 The Observer 
Ellison will return in. 10 days 
Fears of season-ending ailment eased after diagnosis 
Associated Press least from a long-term aspect," writhing in pain. Crum said. "Obviously, we "It was painful at first, but 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Coach hope to get him back as soon then it didn't hurt as bad be­Denny Crum and the seventh­as possible. We'll just have to cause it was kind of numb," he ranked Louisville Cardinals take it on a day-to-day basis." said. "I could hear the doctors breathed a collective sigh of Ellison would miss four and trainers talking amongrelief Monday after a thorough games if he's out for 10 days, themselves, but I couldn't sayexamination of Pervis El­but Ellis said he may be back anything ... probably because lison's injured left knee sooner. I was scared. revealed no serious damage. "I'm optimistic enough to "I was thinking, 'This is it. 
Dr. Rudy Ellis, the team's believe it won't t.ake that long," It's over. It (a professional
physician, said a special X-ray the doctor said. career) hasn't even started and machine that can see through Ellison said he would return it's over.' the knee confirmed that Ellison as soon as he was able. An air cast was applied, and sprained the medial collateral "I feel fine; a lot better than Ellison left the court with the 
ligament and would be I did yesterday (Sunday)," he help of two teammates. Ellison 
sidelined about 10 days. said. "I want to get back as spent the second half in the 
"The ligament is not torn, quick as possible and contrib­whirlpool, watching the game nor is any cartilage," Ellis ute." on television. He left Freedom said. "He'll be sore for awhile Ellison, the team's leading Hall on crutches. and he'll neea a lot of treatment scorer and rebounder, hurt his Louisville, 14-3, was poised to 
-
... but I don't think this will knee after stealing a pass just take over the No. 1 ranking in jeopardize his career in any before halftime in Sunday's 85-The Associated Press poll be­way." 79 loss to No. 15 Ohio State. cause top-ranked Illinois and 
AP Photo
That was the best news, in Ellison's left foot was planted No.2 Georgetown both lost last 
Pervls Ellison of the Louisville Cardinals, who went down with a
Crum's opinion. on the foul line at Ohio State's week. But the Cardinals fell to 
knee Injury during Sunday's loss to Ohio State, was given an
"We're pleased that Pervis' end of the court and his right seventh as Oklahoma jumped 
encouraging prognosis after an examination yesterday. Ellison
injury isn't a disabling one--at foot slipped. He fell to the court from No. 4 to top of the list. 
should miss a maximum of four games over the next 10 days. 
•


49ers' Rice rema1ns upset about press coverage 
Associated Press zine. The first time was a week "I went back to the Bay Area they would have gotten more And he acknowledged that his ago. and I felt like I didn't get the attention. role in San Francisco's Super
NEW YORK -Jerry Rice He was hardly starved for at­coverage I deserved," Rice "If it were Joe Montana, Bowl victory might have been began to reap the benefits on tention, sitting down for inter­said. Dwight Clark, it would have forgotten because Walsh Monday of being named Most views with nearly a dozen "I don't think it was racism. been headlines all over," he stepped down as coach in favor 
Valuable Player in the Super reporters, then sitting for indi­Maybe it was because of Bill said, adding "I'm not saying of George Seifert. Bowl, but again he said he's vidual television interviews. Walsh retiring or maybe be­it's racism." But when asked He also said he had nothingbeen obscured by the higher But amidst all that, he still cause of Joe Montana, but if he thought racism was in­against Montana. profiles of Joe Montana and Bill said in his quiet way that he somewhere, Jerry Rice got lost volved, he replied: "yeah, I
-Walsh. -believed his achievements in in the shuffle. I expected to get would say so." On Monday, he "Joe and I have a good un­
Rice, who caught 11 passes the game had been over­a little more respect." said he didn't think racism was derstanding," he said. "We've for 215 yards as the San Fran­shadowed by the attention paid Rice made similar remarks involVed, but added: ''what I got good chemistry going. It cisco 49ers beat the Cincinnati to Walsh's retirement as coach last week, telling a San Fran­said needed to be said." was nothing against him. But I Bengals 20-16 eight days ago, and to Montana for quarter­cisco television station that if Moreover he said that his just felt I had to use he and 
arrived here to receive for the backing the 92-yard drive that it had been Montana and agent, Jim Steiner, had Dwight Clark as examples of second time the sports car won the game in the final three Dwight Clark making the plays received numerous phone calls people who are built up by the awarded him by Sport Maga-minutes. instead of Montana and Rice, about possible endorsements. media." 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 



Classifieds 
lost: Navy blue nylon wallet friday night FOR SALE: Boston Accoustics A70 SPRING BREAK IN MAZATLAN, HEH MOLLVI HOW BOUT THOSE at RoH's. I could care less about the spkrs. (pr.). SPECS: 90db, 45to 20000 MEXICO $450 round trip air fare and 49ERS? IF CINCY KEEPS PLAYING
NOTICES PERSONALs' I
money, but I would like m 1.0. back. Call hz.,8" woof.,!" tweet.,15to 75 wthan. lodging. Deadline-Feb. 1. For more info, LIKE THAT NEXT SEASON YOU'll BE John at 2371. RETAll $350. 3.5 yrs left on 5 yr. war­call Kim x4420. RICH I 
rantee. LIKE NEW!! Call Tony Troup at 
MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 288-6603. Asking $250 o.b.o. NEGOTI· MF--"Confidence is high. My stale is APPALACHIA GUHI-MARY ABLE! The rest of my stereo stolen. peaking." . ..... ....... LOST................ Gold heart . 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 

MUST SELLIII APPALACHIA locket from necklaoe between Huney and 
TYPING AVAILABLE 

ATTENTION KITTY AND RITA!! JUST South dining hall Monday· PLEASE return 1986 TOYOTA TERCEL2DR LIFTBACK APPALACHIA THINK FREE BEER IN DAYTONA IS 
287-4082 LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar ReviewH found! Kristin x1124 

EXC COND 25,000 MILES $3900. CALL ON THE HORIZON! SURE, RIGHT!
eerfy. Kaplan-SMH revle-to many
JANET 284-5710 8·4:30 M-F Appalachia Seminar lnformetlon Tu•. THIS COULD BE REAL SHADYI
Typlng>Wordproc:eulng atat• available here In South Band. 
Jan. 31 8:30-9:30 pm esc YOUR PAL MARY
237·1949 Trenater back home for aummar. Dla­
For Sale: SYNTHESIZER call Joe 1865 
counta for Kaplan LS.t.T alumni. JUNIOR FORMAL "Mardi Gras" Elk'sFOR RENT Re...,. before March 2 Call 272-4135. lodge 9-2 a.m.----$14touple----Tixs on TYPING OWay ir tic SBend-NY. Cheap 288·8 130 Aak for Sue. sale in class ollice----1-4:30 p.m. . ..... . 
HEH JOHN HOWARTH AND PATPICKUP & DELIVERY 
HOUSE FOR RENT 3 BLOCKS FROM ....................wAsii.iNGroti.................... DANAHYI THANKS FOR A WONDER­
277-7408 SUMMER JOBS
NO 3 BEDROOMS-$475MO 516 FUL MEAL AND GIVING US THE PLEA­
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS
NAPOLEON 232-3616 SURE OF DINING WITH TWO OF THE 
PRESTIGE CHILORENS' CAMPS WASHINGTON
TICKETS 
MOST HANDSOME MEN ON THIS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR CAMPUS! YOU TWO ARE EDIBLEI 
LAKE WASHINGTON
,-LOVE,
8 BDRM HSE AVAILABLE 89-90 NEED 3 DUKE TICKETS-CALL SEAN PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373 TWO BABES FROM PE 
' LOST/FOUND I 
SCHOOL YEAR. 117SMO. 234-9384. 1398 Waahlngton Semlnt1r lnfonnatlon Tuee. Jan. 31 7-B pm esc FOUND-a Smfth Carona typewriter NEED 2 DUKE GAS CALL 2281 SPRINGBREAK BAREFOQT CRUISE 
ATTENTION NO HOOP FANS: 
at the bus stop fri. before X·Mas break. 50Ft. Y ACMTS BIMINI BAHAMAS SOUTH PADRE ISLAND FOR SPRING Respond "ELLIS" to every hoop
Call and claim. x2297 WANTED NEED 2 DUKE GAs-Kristin x1124 GROUPS OF 8, $435.00 PP 7 DAYS BREAK that laPhonso scores!!!! 
INCLUDES ALL MEALS 7 Nights luxury Condominiums.Round 
laPhonso...•EllllLLIISSSSSitllll 
lost-pair of blacl< leather gloves on 1~911&-7245 ANYTIM& Trip Air Traosportalion. 
WE NEED THREE DUKE GA'S.
shuttle Jan. 20. Pleas&-it's cold out! # NO law achool atudenta to be rep• ORGANIZE & CRUISE ~EE ·The official Notre Dame endorsed 
PLEASE CALL RICK OR JOE AT 1644.
2804 for Kaplan-8MH Bar Review cour-. trip. $437. To sign up call Bob 
Happy 21st birthday Steve!!! Hope H's Earn free bllr review courae ptua $$'a. 283-1521 or Student Activities Off. at 
your besl.year yet! 

i:osr:"..e>;g;;···~···c;;;;:.;:=i;···i;;~·;;.;···~, 
Cell 272-4135. Aak for Sue. O'hare to New Orleans Air Ticket 239-7308.
Please, I desperately need 2 Duke Stud 1.ove you so much,
x4936. for sale. 2'1-26. $140 negotiable Bob
tixl Cengiz Saarfoss x1658 laur xoxox 
WANTED:USED COMPACT DIS­1521. JPW SEATING CHANGE for dinner and LOST: red scarl between lafourtana and C.WPAY UP TO $7 EA. 291-4492 OR brunch. All former arrangaments void. Ubrary Wed. morning 11.!5. Please call 291-9044. si>FiiN"a···aR'EA·i<···o:\YiotiA"....Sj;;;;i Tues & Wed al CCE, 2-10 PM Bring ID's 
4 Duke tixs for sale. 272-6306 REVUE TIX
Cars at 3722. 7nla'lldaya at Spring BtUk'a HOT· for people you wish to sit wnh. Max 9
NEED 2 DUKE STUD TIX CALL DAN 2 Fri for 2 Thurs Call Rob 1159 
NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH THIS TEST reaort, The Clarendon Plaza ID'sperson. Questns? Call239-6028 7·9 
287·8716
found an address book in the post offioe WEEKEND, FEB 3·5 CAN LEAVE home of Penrod'.-The Plantation Club PM or ask an exec. committee member. 
Need lo trade 4 or 6 Thurs Keenan nx 
on Thursday. It might be im--portant to THURS OR FRI CALL JOE 233-8138 and the largeat pool deck ON THE for 4 or 6 Fri Keenan Tix Call 2535 or 
you. call 233·4381. PLEASE HELPIII We need to lrede 4 BEACHI $195 per person limited To lhe super CHEG I am glad to see you 2541 
SUMMER INTERNSHIP-U.S. TOBACCO tickets for the Friday night Keenan Revue apace. Cell today Breakaway Toura1-are feeling better and Happy belated an­FOUND: Keys at The Varsity Shop. Call is looking for bright,personable student lo either Thursday or Saturday night. Call 8()()..444..7384. niversary..Goblin 
Collegiate Jazz Festival logo a,nstest.277-0057. interested in public relations. no experi· Kelly at 2n-6895. Thanks. , 
Entries due Feb. 6 4:00 in Student Ac­
enoe nee. Call 1-800-UST -6900 THANK YOU Jesus, Sts. Joseph, Jude, Karen, from farley, you are so unbeliev­
tivities Office in LaFortune. Winning
LOST: Gold braoelet with a tw<rbead 2 DUKE GAs FOR SALE, x1560 & Anthony, & Mon. Escriva for granted able, I can't stop watching you. reply here Entries will receive a $75 prize and will 
design. Great sentimental value. Call ................................................. ..... intentions if your interested 
become property of CJF. Questions?
Kathleen at 283-3865. NEED DUKE TICKETS BADLVIII CALL 
contact Student Activities Offioe. PETE AT 2n-4165 Anyone driving lo or thru the Milwaukee RIDE NEEDED TO GRAND RAPIDS, Ml 
lost green bookbag wnh all my book area the weekend of Feb. 3 have room ON FEB 3 AND FOR FEB 10 WILL TO DOLL, BOOZER, LINGUS, PISSY,
ou~"E-sruo.rici<iiT··;;oA··;:AAoe.o"F
please return.. x2147 tor 2-4 riders to share expenses? Call SHARE EXPENSES AND DRIVING THE DILLON KIDNAPPERS, AND THE
FOR SALE 

2 TO 4 KEENAN REVUE TIX Chris or Paige # 2923 ASAP. CALL HEATHER AT 4161. REST OF THE CREW: Thanks for FOUND: Has anyone lost a check from PREFERABLY FRIDAY OR SATUR· making my 20th a day to remember. 1 Erbrecht Consulting Selvices? H so, Order your TEXTBOOKS 25% OFF! DAY. CALL CHRIS AT 4079 AND LEAVE STUDENTS NEEDED TO ACT AS LIVE BRIGHTEN YOUR LIFE!! MEET THAT LOVE YOU GUYS! please call Chris x2894 to claim the SAVE $$$ on paperbacks. 30% OFF! ME5l1AGE BEFORE THURSDAY AF­STREET MUSICIANS AND_ STREET SOMEONE SPECIAL THROUGH OUR BUTTHEAD check. PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. TERNOON. ENTERTAINERS. CALL BOB AT 239-SINGLES .CLUB. INTRO SINGLES 
Just 3 blocks from campus. PH# 233-7254. CLUB, BOX 3006, BOSTON, MA 02130. LOST: Jan.17-SILVER BRACELET­2342 You have heard nall before so I MY DATE WAS TOO LAZY TO GET either at campus view or on campus near will make this short and profitable for you. To whoever sent the birthday note to lis REYDA'S B-day. He's 21 today. Call KEENAN REVIEW TIXII! 
P.E. It was a Christmas gilt and nreally ROUNDTRIP TICKET FROM IN­I need 2 Duke tickets. SUSSIE--You have aroused my him and congratulate him on only one WILL PAY$$$ FOR TWO TIXI means a lot to me. H found PLEASE call DIANAPOLIS TO FORT LAUD. CALL Edward, # 1613 curiousity--please send more info arrest. Even better, buy him a drink. CALL 284·4318 Julie at 4351.$S$reward BRIAN AT X1750 (flowers would l:le nioe tool) Happy B-dayl JC&WN 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bruce Kimball, a 1980 Olympic silver medal-winning diver, was sentenced to 17 years in prison Monday for a high-speed drunken driving accident last summer that killed two teenagers and injured four others. -Associated Press 
In college baskelball Monday, Pitt edged St. John's 85-81 in overtime, Indiana whipped Iowa 104-89, Rutgers thrashed St. Bonaventure 79-50 and Boston University brushed Colgate 83-62. -Associated Press 
Tom Chambers of the Phoenix Suns, who averaged 33 points, seven rebounds and five assists over his team's three games, was named NBA Player of the Week for the week ending Sunday. The Suns went 2-1 over that span. -Associated Press 
The Off-Campus hockey team has a game against Keenan today at 10:30 p.m. Each player must bring $5 to cover the cost of jerseys. Any players who are not able to come to today's game should call John Kirk at 289-1124 or Chris O'Grady at 288-2438. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer 
ft.\..~ with special guest 

0~:o~ BROKEN HOMES 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4 8:00 PM 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM All seats reserved $15.50 Tickets available at the Civic Auditorium Box Office, Night Winds, Record Connection, and the usual outlets. 


AP Photo 

Associated Press' Top 20 college basketball poll yesterday. Details and a list of the Top 20 can be found below. 
moved Into the number one position on the 
Sooners back into No.1 spot 
Illinois, Georgetown and Louisville blow their chances 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla.-Oklahoma coach Bil\y Tubbs, an admirer of the great explorers such as Christopher Columbus and Magellan, has reached un­charted territory with his Sooners. 
They're ranked No. 1 in The Associated Press college bas­ketball poll for the first time in the school's history. 
"It's something I've always 
. SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS 
Counselors:  21+,  coed,  
sleepaway  camp,  Mass.  
Berkshires.  WSI,  arts  &  

crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, drama, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, judo, dance, photography, computers, nature, wilderness, model rocketry, guitar, yearbook, woodworking, RN, typist, Write: Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Rd, Eastshester, NY 10707 or call 914/77:i-9406 
Corporate Presentation by Shaw Industries Major Fortune 500 Corporation 
Topic: Goodbye College, Hello World of Work Given to the Marketing Club and the Arts & Letters Business Society All members welcome 
Alumni Room of the Morris Inn Tuesda Januar 31 at 4:00 
wanted to do,'' Tubbs said Mon­'day. "I guess you could say it's 
a dream come true. 
"You always want to coach the No. 1 team in the nation, even if it's just for a day :• 
In becoming the third team this season to hold the No. 1 spot, the Sooners received 32 of the 66 first-place votes cast by the nationwide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters and finished with 1,273 points to edge IlliJlois in the balloting. 
When Illinoi~ lost Thursday night, it appeared Georgetown would move up one place to the top spot, but the Hoyas were upset by Louisiana State 82-80 on Saturday. 
Louisville was next in line for a chance at No. 1, but the Car­dinals lost at home to Ohio State 85-79 Sunday. 
To show the wide range of opinion on who deserved the top ranking, six teams received first-place votes. 
North Carolina, 18-3, jumped from seventh to third with four first-place votes and 1,074 points, 19 more than Arizona, 15-2, which improved two places and was named No. 1on one ballot. 
Missouri, 18-3, stayed fifth. The Tigers had three first­place votes and 1,048 points. 
Georgetown, which fell to 15­2 with the loss to Louisiana State, dropped from second to sixth with 1,019 points arid the final first-place vote. 
Louisville was seventh with 1,011 points after having its 14­game winning streak snapped and falling to 14-3. 
Florida State, 16-1, moved from 11th to eighth with 797 points and Iowa, 15-3, jumped from 12th to ninth with 651 points, 13 more than Seton Hall, 18-2, which rounded out the Top Ten after being ninth last week. 
Michigan dropped one spot to lead the Second Ten and was followed by Duke, North Carolina State, Syracuse, Ohio State, Nevada-Las Vegas, In­diana, West Virginia, Louisiana State and Stanford. 
always be there. But right now, Dayton is just looking for a good road win. They've got some confidence after winning three of their last four on the road, and we'd be a nice team for them to beat. 
"You have to be on guard against them because they can shoot (three-pointers) when they need to. But nothing changes with us. We want to keep playing a transition game when we can. This is a very talented basketball team that's just waiting to explode. I just hope it's not against us." 

$1200 Scholanhlp for eight weeks of your summer devoted to service wort 
In cities of Alumni Clubs all over the U.S. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FEBRUARY 1 
stop by the Center for Social Concerns 
for tnfo end eppltcetton 





FOQ ~PQING BREAK * 7 !J{I(j9-f'IS -LCUXV2?.:Y CCE{'lJOMFJ{IrzlMS * 1{0119{'1J PlUP Jl11{P1{.9'8{SPo1{rrJtrrio9{ 
* 1 !J{01.1!l{_:f!l{_T/E !J{CYJ3PE CJtrrSJIILI:J{(j 0!1{_WI:J{'lJ S111lfl:J{(j 
$437 INCLOSIVE To sign up call Bob 283-1521 or Student Activities Office 239-7308 

Photo with the Iowa Hawkeyes get away. Indiana won 
away against Illinois last week, but he and the 104-89 at Assembly Hall. Hoosiers didn't let last night's Big Ten game 
Tuesday, Janua~31, 1989 
•



Stanford/Lewis WinS 
Special to The Observer Augusta finished third with 
1,435 points. 

The team of Lewis and Stan­"We had 281 teams regis­ford Halls won the team title in tered in the various activities," Non-Varsity Athletics' Late said NVA assistant director Night Olympics for the third Sally Derengoski. "That's up consecutive year last weekend over 50 teams from last year. at the JACC. Last year we were pleased, so 
Lewis-Stanford amassed to go up by that much, we were 1,770 points to outscore second­dumbfounded." place Pangborn-Carroll­Siegfried-Le Mans, which had The event, which netted 1,460. The Studs-Chickens have $1,800 to benefit St. Joseph won the event since it started County Special Olympics, in 1987. };!egan at 9 p.m. Friday and 
Pasquerilla East-Flanner-ended at 4:50 a.m. Saturday. 

LEGAL AID 
offers Free legal counseling to 
N.D. students, faculty & staff. 
Call 239-7795 
or visit downstairs N.D. Law School 
"They had an exceptionally down year last year," said the 

Dolhare 
second-year head coach. "This continued from page 12 year they have a nice balance of youth and experience and
consecutive years, leads these­are very much improved."
ries 40-20. Last year, the Irish trounced the Broncos 9-0 but Bayliss professes that last 
The 
year's decisive victory is not indicative of the current talent 

Observer
on the Western Michigan squad. 
Holy=± Vocation 
Cross~~ 


Discernment

Priests& Brothers Retreat 

For those who are considering a vocation to priesthood and religious life in Holy Cross as a possibility. 
Founders of the University of Notre Dame,Holy Cross Priests & Brothers serve in a variety of worldwide mini­stries: schools, foreign missions, parishes and auxiliary services. 
PURPOSE: To meet and pray with others who are also searching in a supportive atmosphere DISCERNMENT: Is the art of finding God's will; it is the process of discovering what we 
are called to be. PLACE: Fatima Retreat Center--Notre Dame campus DATE: Begins Friday, February lOth at 7:30PM 
Ends Saturday, February 11th at 9:00PM COST: No cost REGISTRATION: Call Vocation Office at 239-6385 
ADWORKS 


Over 100 Centers Nationwide Offermg Proven Preparation For The Bar Exams Of: 

California  Florida  Massachusetts  New Mexico  Texas  
Colorado  Illinois  Michigan  New York  Vermont  
Connecticut  Maine  New Hampshire  Pennsylvania  Virginia  
Dist. of Columbia  Maryland  New Jersey  Rhode Island  

STANLEY H. 
KAPIAN-SMH 
BAR REVrEW SERVICES 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135 
The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS 
8 a.m. Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
Noon Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar "Third World Agricultural Development and China's Agricultural Reform," by Professor Gao Xian, Beijing, China, Room 131 Decio. 
4:30p.m. Biological Sciences Seminar "Aproaches to Plant Development Using Transgenic Plants," by June Medford, Monsanto Chemical Co., Room 283 Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "Heaven Can Wait," directed by Ernst Lubitsch, Annenberg Auditorium. 
8 p.m. Basketball vs. Dayton, JACC. 
9:15p.m. Communication and Theatre film "Pandora's Box," directed by G.W. Pabst, Annenberg Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Special Fried Chicken Dinner: Beef Burgundy Chili Elegant Rice Cookoff Deli Bar 
COMICS . 
Bloom County 
RlCT: H/5 801?'1 FACT: !3R'OKEN l?f/TH/3 1701/AL!J' 5!?//IN IN71/C T, 17?rJMP I Mf?. 71ff/t'I/P L!£5 W115HIT8Y IN 11 313CK£T H150WN N£W YOKK IINCHOK SVK&!C/1/.. LJI/3. 
t.A5T 
WIZK 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Stray 
30 Stupefy1 Gab 
31 Wings for an angelus 5 Starr of football 
9 In the distance 32 Star or TV series
131ndulge 35 Idaho city W of 
15 Sheltered from Boise
Wind 39Wasable
16 Earthly life 41 Become
17 Chalcedony 

entangled18 Agenda of 
42 Scoutmaster'ssporting events 
charges19 Oratorio part 
43 Gene or Grace 
20 Power-hungry 44 Entry
political leaders 46 Challenge.
22 Carol or Coward 47 Filling thread 
23 Split a log 49 Divulged
24 All gone, at dinner 51 Formula of belief 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


53 Smudge 55 An attempt 56 Head of a gang 62 Expensive 63 English 
hoosegow 64 Rocket stage 65 Together, 
musically 66 Fairy-tale villain 67 Evil one 68 Ruminant 69-theline 
(conformed) 70 Greater number 
DOWN 
1 African republic or lake 2 Colossal 
3 Mosque priest 4-bene 5 Roomy pleasure 
12 Not imaginary 36 Bewail 54 Gazedboat amorously14 Kingly 37 Meditate 6 Vocally 
21 Draft animals 55 Bony fish 
38 Mimicked 

7 Neural network 
25 A relative 57 Othello's
40 Colored a Madison Ave. 26Crib betrayer
45 Drudge·come-on 

27 Lotion ingredient 58" -of 
48 Made a lapsus

9 Unorthodox, 28 Heavy hammer purest ray
memoriae

untraditional 29 Flock leader serene"· Gray 
50 Supplicate

leaders 30 Appointment 59 Audition platter, 51 Reprimaod for short 
10 Denmark's­33 NeglectIslands 52 Mountebank 60 Biblical patriarch 
34 Container for 11 Strange wine 53 Siesta sound 61 Be bombastic " 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
FI/CT: IT ISN'T 
H£1171-ICt.lrr. 


C 1980 Chronicle Features1-31 Ol!lflbuled by Un1versat Press Syndicate 

STUDENT UNION BOARD Presents ... 
COMEDY ZONE
Thursday: ~ 
Friday:
SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL 

WILLOW 
Steve Seagren Mark Reedy Thursday 9 pm in Theodore's 











Sports 
Tuesday, Janua~31, 1989
page 12 
Dayton Flyers try to break JACC jinx 
By PETE SKIKO Don will have them ready to play."
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Flyers will be paced by The Dayton Flyers come to their junior backcourt tandem town Tuesday night to face the of Negele Knight and Ray Notre Dame men's basketball Springer. Knight's 16 point per team. game average is a team high, And if history can be any he shoots 50 per cent from the judge, Don Donoher's squad field (7-for-21 from the three­doesn't have reason to be ter­point line), and has a team­ribly optimistic. leading 31 steals and 98 assists. The Irish have dispatched Springer is the Flyers' Dayton in each of the Flyers' leading three-point shooter, 12 visits to the JACC, although connecting on 21 of his 60 at­Dayton leads the series away tempts from 19 feet, nine inches from South Bend 9-7. and beyond. The junior (9.8 
But whatever history says, ppg, 4.4 apg) also leads Dayton Notre Dame head coach Digger in free-throw shooting Phelps knows Donoher, who is percentage. in his silver anniversary year Dayton's leading rebounder with Dayton, too well to under­is the team's only senior, for­
estimate his 9-7 Flyers. ward Steve Pittman (12.3 ppg, 
"Dayton is deceptive at 9-7, ~' 6.2 rpg). His partners in the said Phelps, whose team frontcourt are junior forward picked up a much-needed 64-60 Anthony Corbitt (13.7 ppg, 5.9 win against Temple on Sunday. rpg) and center Bill Uhl (6.7 "You can't take their squad ppg, 2.8 rpg). lightly, simply because they're Dayton has routinely played 
as deep as we are as far as ex­the Irish tough, despite the lop­

Joe Fredrick (3) drives around Temple's Mark
perience and personel is con­sided rcord between the two 

Macon In Notre Dame's 64-60 victory over the
cerned. Their kids have all 

Owls on Sunday. Fredrick, now the leading
been there before, and I know see DAYTON, page 9 

Notre Dame women's tennis drops two over weekend 
, 

By CHRIS COONEY our freshmen and they didn't ferent. A less talented Mar-to the pressures of collegiate "Natalie recently recovered Sports Writer quite understand what we quette team held on to defeat · tennis," Gelfman said. from an injury and sickness to needed to do to win." the Irish 5-4. "It was good to lose so easily move up two spots," Gelfman 
With the addition of some Despite the disappointing "In Sunday's meet, we in the season," Gelfman con­lauded. "I was very pleased talented freshmen, experience loss, a bright spot for the Irish definitely beat ourselves," said tinued, "because it has in­with her tough play." is the only thing lacking from was the play of sophomore Gelfman. "Because Kristy spired the team to work harder Gelfman hopes that the rest a young Notre Dame women's CeCe Cahill at number-one Doran was out sick, we had to than ever. They pulled together of the team will follow the ex­tennis team this year. singles and doubles. Cahill won change our doubles teams and well after the losses and they're ample of Clark and Illig and 
Unfortunately, the Irish are her singles match 6-1, 6-2. In the new combinations didn't realizing what we'll have to do concentrate on playing with gaining that experience the doubles, she combined with work well." to win. I don't think it's an in-more intensity. hard way, losing two difficult freshman Tracy Barton to gain As on Saturday, the Irish dicator of what the rest of the dual meets this weekend in Mil­Notre Dame's only other vic­gained victories from their top season will be like." "I think we realized our po­waukee, Wis. tory. singles and doubles positions. tential to win this weekend," 
On Saturday, Notre Dame ''The combination of CeCe Gelfman again attributed the Gelfman was particularly Gelfman commented. "Now was surprised by the depth of and Tracy is outstanding," losses to the inexperience of the impressed with the play of two we just need to work on staying a tough squad from Minnesota. commented Gellman. "They young line-up, which included members of the Irish squad. focused throughout our The Gophers won the meet 7-2. started playing together in Oc­three freshmen. Freshman Katie Clark played matches." 
"We didn't play poorly, they tober and have made terrific "The freshmen didn't quite her best match of the year, win­The Irish open their home were just better than us at the progress. I'm excited at the realize the impact each and ning 6-4, 6-1 at the third singles season this weekend when they the lower positions," said co­prospect of having them to­every match has on the out­position. At the number-one host the Eck Doubles Classic, ach Michele Gellman. "It was gether for a long time." come. They have tremendous spot, Natalie Illig defeated which will include 10 of the best the first time in a dual meet for On Sunday, the story was dif-talent but they need to adjust Laura Daly, 5-7, 7-6 (8-6), 6-4. teams in the nation. 
•

Dolhare IS key Irish import 
Argentina native fills number-three spot for men's tennis 
By BOB MITCHELL ing interest in Walter. So, I According to Bayliss, Dol­Sports Writer decided to ask other coaches hare's best tennis is undoubt­about him. I got glowing edly ahead of him. 
Even though the Notre Dame reports about both his tennis "Walter has a world class men's tennis team has started and particularly the type of backhand and solid overall the spring season 0-2, Walter person he is. So, I decided to groundstrokes," said Bayliss. Dolhare, the number-three continue to recruit him." "We've only had a healthy Wal­
singles player, is right where Dolhare compiled a 54-26 ter for two weeks but I think he he wants to be. singles record while playing is begginning to reach his po­
Dolhare, a junior transfer the number-one position for tential level. He can be a top from Austin Peay and a native Austin Peay for the last two national level collegiate of Buenos Aires, Argentina, years. Before his days at Aus­player." has travelled 6000 miles to do tin Peay, Dolhare was ranked And how does Walter feel whatever he can to build the number two in Argentina at the about his new home? Irish tennis program into ana­18-and-under level. The 6-2 "I'm very happy at Notre tional power. This is extraordi­junior's resume also includes Dame," said Dolhare, who is a nary considering Head Coach being a member of the Argen­marketing major. "I came to Bob Bayliss, at one point, had tinian Junior Davis Cup team. Notre Dame for two reasons: decided it wasn't a good idea The fall season was not kind to be more academically chal­that Dolhare attend Notre to Dolhare since he was ham­lenged and to be part of a rising Dame. pered by a severe ankle injury program and contribute to it." 
"I was a little hesitant about which he suffered on the second Dolhare's next challenge will bringing in a transfer since it day of practice in August. But to help the Irish to earn their was my first year here," said now, a healthy Dolhare is first victory of the young Bayliss. "I decided that it looking forward to putting his season today at Western Mic­
The Observer I wouldn't be a good idea to con­best feet forward. higan. tinue with Walter. Then, I got "I feel that I'm coming right Notre Dame, which has a call from Walter's girlfriend back," said Dolhare. "I need beaten the Broncos for three at Austin Peay. She very nicely to get a couple of wins to get chewed me out for not express-my confidence back." see DOLHARE, page 10 


Junior Walter Dolhare has filled In nicely for the Notre Dame men's tennis team since transferlng to South Bend from Argentina. Bob Mitchell features the team's number-three player at right. 





