
VOL. XXIII NO. 72 MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Mayor Barry to seek help following drug arrest 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Mayor Marion Herbert Reid Sr., one of the mayor's Barry, acknowledging that he needs "to closest personal advisors, said he hoped heal my body, mind and soul," but de­that from Barry's travails "we can all clining to mention drug abuse, an­learn something about drug addiction." nounced Sunday that he will seek help "He's doing the right thing," Reid following his arrest on a cocaine pos­said. "I am -we all are -relieved, be­session charge. cause many of us have suspected for 
"He has reached the hour of reckon­some time that he has had a problem." ing," said his wife, Effi. "The most serious problem is alco­
At times blinking back tears, the holism," Barry spokeswoman Lurma mayor provided no further details on Rackley said. "The mayor has acknowl­what kind of assistance he will seek, ex­edged that he has a health concern, and cept to say that social activist and self­the details are his private matter." described nutritional expert Dick Gre­"For you to ,admit that you have a gory has been consulting him on how to problem ... that you need to make your­get help. An aide said Barry's main self whole again is truly a burden lifted problem was with alcoholism. from our souls," the mayor's wife said 
Top advisers to the mayor, speaking in remarks that followed her husband's. on condition of anonymity, said that the "For our family it is just the begin­mayor is considering checking into the ning." Betty Ford Clinic in Rancho Mirage, Calif. and two unnamed clinics in the Barry, surrounded by clergy in a Washington area. A decision on where broadcast appearance in front of St. the mayor will be treated is expected Timothy's Episcopal Church near his 
before Monday, the aides said. home, clasped his wife's hand and said 
Barry's brief statement was the latest he has come "face to face with my chapter in an unfolding drama that has deepest human failures." riveted the nation's capital since the Barry said, "these ministers have 
mayor was arrested on drug charges helped me to keep the strength I need ... last Thursday night. I'm going to find a way to heal my body, 
While the mayor did not say whether mind and soul." he is suffering from drug abuse, others did. see BARRY I page 4 
Fuel tanker
Azerbaijani soldiers fire on Soviet troops 

runs aground
MOSCOW (AP) -Mutinous The Interior Ministry re­military cadets in Azerbaijan ported 51 civilians and six sol­

in Alaska
fired on Soviet troops pa­diers dead, and 287 civilians trolling their capital Sunday, and 36 soldiers wounded in JUNEAU, Alaska (AP) -Aand tens of thousands of people Saturday's action. That tanker ran aground in a nar­mourned victims of a bloody brought the total riumber of row channel in Alaska's sceniccrackdown on their republic's casualties for the week to 129 Inside Passage, spilling an es­nationalist uprising. dead and more than 500 timated 57,600 gallons of gaso­The dozens of cadets, joined wounded. 
reported 
line, the Coast Guard said. 
by comrades from the neigh­Activists much 
boring Caucasus republic of higher figures, and Interior The spill was not expected to 
Georgia, battled sporadically Ministry officials said they re­cause widespread environmen­tal damage because gasoline
throughout the day with Soviet ceived too many conflicting ac­soldiers at Baku's garrison and counts to confidently update evaporates quickly, Coast 
Guard and state environmental
military academy, Arif Yunusov their figures. of the Azerbaijani Social Demo­Foreign reporters were officials said. 
cratic Group reported. barred from Armenia and The 400-foot motor vessel The downtown garrison was Azerbaijan, so it was difficult Frank H. Brown slammed into the scene of some of the to reconcile the conflicting in­Burnt Island reef about 18 miles south of Petersburg in
fiercest fighting when thou­formation. 
Moscow sent thousands of southeastern Alaska around 8sands of Soviet troops Saturday 
broke through barricades troops and other forces to p.m. Saturday, said Lt. Rick erected by militants and Baku after fighting flared be­Janelle in Juneau. One tank was but leak was
stormed Baku, the southern re­tween the Moslem Azerbaijanis ruptured the public's capital. and mainly Christian Armenians stopped by about 10 p.m., Jahun Mulazade, a political this month. The neighboring Janelle said. 
The Canadian-owned ship re­

scientist, said by telephone republics are locked in a 
decades-old dispute over the floated itself about 8:30 a.m.
from his Baku apartment on 
Sunday night he could hear region of Nagorno-Karabakh, Sunday, around high tide, said Ed Moreth, another Coast
shooting at the garrison. He es­which is inside Azerbaijan but Guard spokesman. It was takentimated about 200 Azerbaijani populated mainly by Armeni­to nearby Skow Bay, wherecadets, 50 Georgians and mem­ans. 
divers found a two-foot hole in
bers of other ethnic groups The total number of Soviet were fighting the soldiers. forces tackling the violence is the hull. Mutinous Azerbaijani sailors reported to be 29,000, including The tanker's crew measured 
also reportedly troops, cadets and the amount of gasoline left in
exchanged police, 
the ruptured tank and foundgunfire with Soviet troops. Mu­interior forces. The number of 
militants has been reported to that 57,600 gallons had spilled,lazade and Yunusov's wife, 
Leila, said that battle raged at be in the thousands. . AP Photo -Moreth said. the naval academy on the out­The bloodiest wave of violence A sovtet soldier, part of the 11,000 troops sent to halt violence be-The spill is tiny in comparison skirts of Baku. erupted Jan. 13 with anti­tween Armenians and Azerbaijanis this week, loads a grenade into his to the March 24 Exxon Valdez 
Occasional shots rang out Armenian rioting in Baku that weapon. disaster which dumped 11 mil­elsewhere in the Azerbaijani killed 6 7 people by official lion gallons of heavy, long-last­ing crude oil into Alaska wa­
capital Sunday, Yurmsov and count and forced thousands of with red lines spreading from Azerbaijanis gathered outside Radio Moscow said, but it ap­Armenians to abandon their the top of the screen, simulat­the Communist Par.ty ters. Exxon Corp. says it has peared that fighting was con­homes. It escalated into open ing dripping blood, as pictures headquarters in Baku to mourn spent more than $1 billion 
warfare elsewhere in Azerbai­of soldiers and victims of the cleaning up the nation's largest 
centrated at military posts. those killed when Soviet troops Rebels threw grenades .and jan and led to the worst fight­violence flashed by. moved in, Yunusov said oil spill. By late Sunday the Coast
Molotov cocktails at soldiers' ing in the ethnic feud in two Anchorman Eduard The republic's Supreme Soviet military vehicles, the official years. Sagalayev told millions of view­convened an emergency meeting Guard reported three light news agency Tass said. A cor­A tabloid TV newscast called ers the ethnic warfare was the late Sunday night and was to sheens of gasoline in the chan­
respondent for Moscow's state­"Seven Days" began a 25-Soviet Union's biggest tragedy remain in session until Monday nel. the largest a mile long. 
run TV and radio service was minute wrap up of the week's since World War II. morning, said Namida Vitulova, briefly held hostage. ethnic violence Sunday night Tens of thousands of whose husband attended. see SPILL I page 5 
page 2 The Observer Monday, January 22, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN ND needs more class room, not classrooms If I had an "A" for every time a professor walked into a Notre Dame classroom and said, "I would prefer this were a seminar class but since it is so large we will be covering the material by lecture," I'd be a Liz Panzica Rhodes scholar. Business Editor Professors and students both prefer small classes, but administrators don't seem to like to schedule them. I realize the DeBartolo quad will cut down on classroom crowding, but it won't make classes any smaller. The facilities will only give students a bit more elbow room when they are lost in a pack of 85 or 100 others on a quest for knowledge. Unless the University takes steps now, the  WEATHER Forecast for noon, Monday, January 22. Lines show high temperatures. 20 Forecast: Becoming partly cloudy by 1his afternoon. High in the upper 30s to near 40. Partly cloudy tonight with the low around 30. Thick­ening clouds with the high around 40 are ex­pected Tuesday. Yesterday's high:33 Yesterday's low: 29 National high: 88 (Naples, Fla.) FRONTS: National low: 5 below zero (Caribou, ME)• • •• • • •COLD WARM STATIONARY ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure ® © ml ~ w ~ ~X' HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  

situation will only get worse, especially in the popular majors in the College of Arts and Letters. Many universities commonly have large classes, but Notre Dame has made its reputation on the attention it gives to undergraduates. Increasing class sizes seems to be reneging on a promise the University has always made to students, parents, alumni and supporters. Sure, other universities do it, but Notre Dame is not just another university. 
One solution to increased class sizes is for the University to admit fewer students. But, financially speaking, this would ·not make much sense, considering that new residence halls that would be empty and would require a tuition increase. 
Administrators could try a drastic move, such as cutting the number of credit hours needed to graduate and decreasing semester credit-hour loads. So instead of maybe five crowded classes a semester, a student has four seminar classes. A University, however, should be a place to sample many different ideas. To decrease the number of classes would go against liberal education. 
Professors could carry heavier class loads. This would of course be time away from research and writing, and these are too important to be overlooked. 
The most feasible solution to large classes is more faculty. But the solution is not simple. Faculty, of course, come at a price and good faculty come at a high price. Compared to other private institutions, Notre Dame struggles to keep tuition costs down. 
The University recently had a fundraising effort to finance new campus buildings. Now that we have the classroom space, let's get the professors to fill it. The next fundraising campaign should not be for a new building but for more professors. 
A want ad might read, " Scholarly types wanted to occupy new classroom space. Great student body, athletic facilities and wonderfully variable climate." 
The opinion expressed in the Inside col­umn is the author's and not necessarily that of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 

(219)-239-7471  
Today's Staff:  
News Kelley Tuthill  Production Joe Zadrozny Maureen Gallagher  Sports Bob Mitchell  
Monica Yant  
Viewpoint  Systems  
Accent  Kim Skiles  Amalia Mieir  
Colleen Cronin  anice O'Leary  Dan Towers  
Paul Pearson  
Liz Havel  Business  

Liz Panzica 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday lhrouqh Frid?v eY.t:'Ppl -i1 r;..,c .:.~·· 1r1 ·:;r· ~ ··"'0fi,..,., --..;~-~ .... ,..~f'>. 
~ ...i • -r 
1._ 
·"··-... --------·----· --· ·-~~-· ··-----1 
WORLD 
A prominent Haitian civic leader, considered the fa­ther of his country's constitution, was forced into exile Sunday by the military regime, a day after it imposed a state of siege and arrested dozens of critics. Dr. Louis Roy, 74, founder of the Haitian Red Cross, was among several leaders arrested and exiled. Critics said the state of siege indicated Haitian ruler Lt. Gen. Prosper Avril plans to turn his regime into a dictatorship and renege on promises to hold free elections this year. 

East Germany's ruling Communist Party on Sunday expelled Egon Krenz, the ousted leader who opened the Berlin Wall, and lost its popular No. 2 official in a resig­nation that could cripple the embattled party. The Com­munists rejected demands to disband but offered the op­position "co-responsibility" in the government until May elections, abolished their clasped-hands emblem and of­fered to change their party's name. 
. NATIONAL 
Barbara Stanwyck, the stern matriarch of television's "The Big Valley," died Saturday at age 82 of congestive heart failure, said a press agent. Stanwyck, whose career spanned the chorus line, vaudeville, movies, television and won her three Emmys and an honorary Oscar, had been admitted to St. John's Hospital 

and Health Center in Santa Monica about a week ago. Stanwyck had appeared in more than 80 movies since the 1920s, including four Academy Award-nominated roles 

AIDS may not be curable, but by the end of the 1990s it is likely to become a manageable chronic disease that doesn't shorten life expectancy, a leading govern­ment AIDS researcher said Sunday. Until now AIDS drugs have been developed largely by screening available sub­stances for possible anti-viral activity, Dr. Anthony Fauci said. AZT, the current mainstay of treatment in people sick with AIDS, has been shown to significantly delay the progression or onset of symptoms in people infected with HIV but not yet sick, he said. 
OF INTEREST 
Theodore's invites all freshmen interested in be­coming assistant managers to attend a meeting at 6:30 
p.m. tonight in Theodore's. All current staff members and DJ's are encouraged to attend as well. 
Volunteers are needed immediately for elemen­tary and high school Native American students on Tues­days, 6 to 7 p.m., Jan. 30 through April 24 in Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's. Orientation meeting tonight from 6 to 7 p.m. in Room 328 Madeleva. If unable to make meeting, 
call Sue Bryant at 284-4126 or 284-4485. 
CAMPUS 

Holy Cross Junior College will host a fi­nancial aid workshop on Tuesday, Jan. 23 at 7 
p.m. in the College Building. R. Douglas Irvine, Director of Financial Aid at the junior college, will be the main speaker. · 
For the 1990-1991 academic year, the U.S. De­partment of Education has mandated new re­quirements in the application process for finan­cial aid. Emphasis will be given on the application process where the new requirements have been mandated. 
The junior college is located on U.S. 33 North. For more information, the public may call 233­6813, and ask for the Financial Aid Office. 
All Eagle Scouts from the ND community are in­vited to join the "Flying Eagles," a fellowship/service or­ganization open to all Eagles. January meeting will be on Tuesday, Jan. 23 at 8:30p.m. For more information, con­tact David Michael at 283-1008. 
Musicians, vocalists, actors, and actresses are needed for Farley Hall's Spring production of the musical "Godspell." Instruments used in the band include guitar, bass, piano, flute, and percussion. Those interested please contact Amalia at 283-4021. Auditions for the cast will begin on Jan. 31 and will be announced in greater detail. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for January 19, 1990 

S&P Composite 339.15 {} .96 Dow Jones Industrials 2677.90 '1}11.52 
Precious Metals Gold {>-$0.30 to $410.90/ oz. 
Silveri} 1.0¢ to $5.25 I oz. 
Source: AP 


Monday, January.22, 1990 The Observer page 3 

Group of Communists to work for multi-party system 

MOSCOW (AP) -A group of progressive Communists on Sunday formed the first de facto faction in decades and said it will work for a multi­party political system. 
A total of 17 5 delegates from throughout the country wound up a two-day meeting by creat­ing a faction called the Demo­cratic Platform, activist and participant Andrei Koptyaev reported. 
On Saturday, the group de­cided that if an upcoming meeting of their party leader­ship does not accept demo­cratic reforms, they will split off and form a Social Demo­cratic Party. 
Non-Communist parties are not yet legal under national law, though Lithuania and Latvia have broken that taboo in recent weeks. Both Baltic re­publics dropped their constitu­tional guarantees of Commu­nist supremacy and legalized multiparty systems. 
Soviet President Mikhail Gor­bachev earlier this month dropped his long-standing ob­jection to alternative political parties, saying it would be no tragedy if they cropped up in the Soviet Union. 

The -Obset:Ver 
is looking for students interested in the following paid positions: 


Typesetters 
Must be able to work with computers and photo typesetting equipment. We will train. 
For information, call Bernard Brenninkmeyer at 239-5323 
The new group's platform calls for radical reform within the party so it can work in con­ditions of a multiparty system. On Sunday, the group elected a 56-member coordinating coun­cil including Communist maver­ick Boris Yeltsin and fellow progressive parliamentarians such as Yuri Afanasyev. 
Both are also members of the Inter-Regional Deputies Group, a group of parliamentarians who had considered but then dropped a proposal to proclaim themselves a "political opposi­tion." 
The national Communist Party has already suffered one splintering. The Lithuanian Communists voted in December to split off and form their own Communist Party favoring in­dependence from the Soviet Union for Lithuania. 
The national Communist Party is scheduled to discuss major reforms of its structure at a congress in October. 
The progressives are princi­pally concerned with the means of selecting delegates to the party congress, Koptyaev said. 
In the past, the delegates have been chosen from the top, ensuring continued support for the status quo. Reformers are hoping for free election of dele­gates by the party's rank-and­file in the belief they will force further reforms throughout the Communist Party. 

Hit-and-run case goes to grand jury Wed. 
By MONICA YANT 
News Writer 
The case against a hit-and­run driver who injured a Notre Dame graduate student Oct. 20 will go to a grand jury Jan. 24, according to Chuck Hurley, as­sistant director of security. 
The hit-and-run victim, Zheng-de Wang, is listed in fair condition at St. Joseph's Medi­cal Center, a spokeswoman said. 
Hurley said the prosecutor decided to take the hit-and-run c:tse to the grand jury, rather than filing charges outright, 5 vandalism in Grace Hall and because of circumstances sur-the LaFortune break-in. Secu­rounding the case. The grand rity has not named a suspect in jury will listen to arguments this case. and decide whether or not to The case against a South indict the suspect. Bend resident for the shooting 
In other security news, of a Notre Dame student is set Hurley said that the LaFortune to go trial February 14, Hurley break-in of Nov. 30 is still said. under investigation. Although Anthony Darden was evidence has been sent to a arrested on a class C felony for laboratory for analysis, no the June 24 shooting of Michael positive identification of a Crounse in front of Bridget suspect has been made, he said. McGuires's Filling Station. 
According to Hurley, there is Crounse has fully recovered, no connection between the Dec. Hurley said. 

Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

DR. TAVEL'S NEW STORE LnS YOU SEE TWICE AS WELL 
Dr. Tavel's Premium Optical is celebrating our newest 1 hour store in 
Greenwood. It has everything you'd expect from Dr. Tavel: eye 
exams. thousands of fashionable frames. all types of contact 
lenses.and best of aiL quality eyewear at an affordable price. And 
for a limited time, we're making a very special offer that gives you 
two pairs of glasses for one low price, so you can see twice as well. 


Ir----------------------,
GRAND OPENING I : SPECIAL : 
I 2 PAIR OF I


$9998 

I GLASSES FOR I
1 I
This offer Includes clear single vision plastic lenses and a Premium frame. Bifocals, tr~ocals. and line-free lenses are slightly higher. Some lens restrictions apply. Both
I I
pairs must be same Rx. Valid at all Dr. Tavel's Premium Optical locations through Febuary 3. 1990. No other discounts. previous orders. or sale items apply. 1
L 

CONTACT LENS SPECIALS 
DAILYOR $3998 2 PAIRS $9998 
EXTENDED WEAR OF TINTED 
$39.98 applies to Softmate clear. daily. or extended wear lenses. 
$99.98 applies to Softmate BorB &L '0' tinted lenses. In 2 different 
colors. Eye exam required for contacts. Some power restrictions apply. 

llll E. Ireland Road 291-4COJ 
All Insurance plans welcome GM Preferred Vision ProvidersM program Metropolitan Ford • Chrysler • Warner Gear • Medicaid 
Ea~~~ 


Notre Dame Student Government needs volunteers to help compose new teacher course evaluation booklet. Good opportunity for student government experience while making a difference in the NO community. 
Call Glenn Abeln at #1521 for more Info. 

If you've set your sights on law school, there's no better LSAT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our LSAT prep will open you eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material is based on the "new" LSAT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N-TAP~ lab, open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. And watch the scales tip in yourfavor. 



! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
Monday, January 22, 1990

page 4 The Observer 
'Fourth of July' wins four awards 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. (AP) -"Born on the Fourth of July," the powerful Vietnam drama, won a leading four Golden Globes at an emotional awards ceremony Saturday night, including best dramatic picture, best dramatic actor for Tom Cruise, best screenplay and best director. 
"Driving Miss Daisy," the ac­count of a Southern spinster's relationship with her black chauffeur. collected three awards, including best musical or comic motion picture. 
Michelle Pfeiffer was named best actress in a dramatic mo­tion picture for "The Fabulous Baker Boys." 
In the television competition, the CBS series "Murphy Brown" won as best musical or comic television series, ABC's "China Beach" was named best dramatic TV series and "Lonesome Dove" won for best mini-series or television movie. 
The Golden Globe winners in dramatics series for acting were Ken Wahl, the star of "Wiseguy," and Angela Lans­bury, who stars in "Murder, She Wrote." Christine Lahti was named best actress in a mini-series or television movie for her performance in "No Place Like Home," a drama about a homeless family in America. 
Robert Duvall won for best actor in a mini-series or TV movie for "Lonesome Dove." 
Other television awards went to Ted Danson ("Cheers") and Jamie Lee Curtis ("Anything But Love"), named best actor and actress in a television series. Amy Madigan captured the Golden Globe for best sup­porting actress in a series, mini-series or television movie for the TV movie "Roe vs. Wade." 
Dean Stockwell took the prize for best supporting actor in a series, mini-series or television movie for his NBC show "Quantum Leap." 
In the movie competition, "Driving Miss Daisy" also cap­tured trophies for best actor and actress in a musical or comic motion picture, for Mor­gan Freeman and Jessica Tandy. 
The other multiple movie winner was the animated film, "The Little Mermaid," winner for best original score and best original song. 
Julia Roberts, from "Steel Magnolias," was chosen as best supporting actress in a movie, while Denzel Washington won best supporting actor in a movie for "Glory." 
Italy's "Cinema Paradiso" was named best foreign lan­guage film. 
The honorary Cecil B. DeMille award, announced in advance, was bestowed this year on Au­drey Hepburn. 

ND prof. given honorary degree 
Special to The Observer 
Father Richard McCormick, John A. O'Brien Professor of Christian Ethics at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, received an honorary doctorate of humane letters from Georgetown Uni­versity during ceremonies there on Jan. 19. 
Widely regarded as America's foremost Catholic bioethicist, McCormick entered the Society of Jesus in 1940 and graduated from Loyola University in 

Barry 
continued from page 1 
The mayor did not take ques­tions and turned the podium to Mrs. Barry following his brief statement. Attention has been focused on Mrs. Barry in part because the mayor was lured to his arrest by a woman with whom the mayor has been friendly. 
Barry, 53, was arrested Thursday evening at a down­town hotel in an FBI sting op­eration. He now faces a misde­meanor cocaine possession charge after testing positive for cocaine in blood and urine tests administered following his ar­rest. 
Close advisors to Barry told The Associated Press on Satur-Chicago tive years later. He ob­tained a master's degree from Loyola in 1950, and in 1953 he was ordained to the priesthood. In 1957, he ob­tained a doctoral degree from the Gregorian University in Rome. 
Before joining Notre Dame'a faculty in 1986, McCormick had been Rose F. Kennedy Pro­fessor of Christian Ethics at Georgetown's Kennedy Center for Bioethics since 1973. For 

day that the mayor has agreed to enter a drug treatment cen­ter. The sources said details on the type of treatment and loca­tion of the facility were still be­ing worked out. 
Barry had been poised to an­nounce his bid for a fourth term as mayor on Sunday but his arrest has thrown local politics into convulsions. Sev­eral advisers said Barry had agreed to abandon his bid for re-election, and they added that the possibility of his resigning from office was never discussed in Friday and Saturday strategy sessions. 
"The issue never came up, be­cause it is so far out there be­yond what we are dealing with now." said one aide who spoke with Barry several times on Saturday. "There is no reason 


ATTENTION ND/SMC PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
THERE WILL BE A MEETING ON 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 23 AT 7:00P.M. IN THE 
HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM. 
ALL ARE ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND. 
the previous sixteen years, he had been a professor of moral theology at the Jesuit School of Theology in Chicago. 
A past president of The Catholic Theological Society of America, McCormick is an au­thor of numerous books and scholarly articles and a fre­quent contributor to such jour­nals as "Commonweal," "America," and "Catholic World." 

AP Photo
On a lighter note... 
American Sgt. Lewis Banks shares a joke with Gilberte Foster at the Panamanian's sausage stand in downtown Colon Thursday. 
have 2 hour shifts to fill. So if... 
-Your want to help provide a valuable community service to NOOMC -You can spare just a couple of hours of easy volunteer work in a nice study environment (the number and manner of handling calls is rarely demanding) -Your could use something extra to look nice on your resume or application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 
...then ask for Bryan at the University Counseling Center or just leave a message. 239-7336 
for him to resign, because if he did, he would lose the powers of office, the influence, and the ability to generate money for his treatment program and his legal defense." 
One Barry cabinet member suggested that prior grand jury testimony -in which the mayor has said he denied ever using drugs -prevented the mayor from making specific references to drug abuse in his short announcement Sunday. 
"I realize I'm going to have to walk this journey by myself," said Barry. 





JUNIORS 
·~ 
" 

@[JU~w ®~® ~~©[LlW[Q)~~~ 
*Transportation *Lodging *Dinner at Dianna's *Ticket to Second City 
Tickets on sale at Junior Class Office 3-5 pm HURRY--Limited space 

Monday, January 22, 1990 page5
. The Observer 
Study: College freshmen support legalized abortion 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Col­lege freshmen are becoming more conservative about drugs and crime but more liberal about legalized abortion, envi­ronmental issues and student activism, according to a study released Sunday. 
The 24th annual survey of en­tering college freshmen con­ducted jointly by UCLA's Higher Education Research Institute and the American Council on Education found an "abrupt change" in student attitudes about legalized abortions. 
Support for legalized abor­tion, which had remained fairly stable -between 53 percent and 59 percent -since 1977, jumped sharply between the 1988 and 1989 surveys. from 57 percent to 64.7 percent. 
"An abrupt change in student attitudes of this magnitude in just one year is most unusual," said Alexander Astin, professor of higher education at UCLA's Graduate School of Education and the survey's director. 
He added that "it may well reflect the students' growing concern about the current Supreme Court's position on this highly charged topic." 
The survey found the envi­ronment was the top concern, with six out of every seven of those questioned agreeing that "the federal government is not doing enough to control envi­ronmental pollution." 
And, 78.2 percent of the stu­dents endorsed greater gov­ernmental efforts to control handguns -a new question asked for the first time in 1989. 

Support for abolition of the death penalty continued its sharp decline, as did student use of drugs and alcohol. The survey found a growing ten­dency toward greater student activism. 
"While student attitudes seem to be moving in a 'conservative' direction on the issues of drugs and crime, their views on most other issues are changing in a decidedly 'liberal' direction,' said Astin. 
The 1989 national survey is based on the responses of 216,362 students at 403 of the nation's two-and four-year colleges and universities. These data have been statistically ad­justed to reflect the responses of the 1.6 million first-time, full-time students entering col­lege as freshmen in the fall of 1989. 

~ ~ ~ ~~
.............................................................................. ...... ............ 

~ Western Canbbean Cru1se 
~ Spring Break '90 ~ March 11-16 ~ ********* ~ ©rrM~®® U©~ ~ Miami ~ Key West 
~ Playa del Carmen ~ Cozumel ~ 
~ $699 per person includes: ~ -round trip airfare ~ -all meals aboard the ship 
~ -live entertainment ,; -lots of shipboard activities ~ -duty-free shopping 
~ ********** 
~ 
~ Sign up at the secretary's desk on the 2nd ~ floor of La Fortune. 
~ Payments due in full by February 15. ~ 





WeJre Banking on your Career Success. 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 

~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 

ND receives $253,026 in grants 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $253,026 in grants during December for the sup­port and research and various programs. Research funds to­taled $223,874, including: 
•$55,109 
from the U.S. Navy for studies of ordering in semi­conducting and other alloys by Kathie Newman, associate pro­fessor of physics. 

•$51,404 
from the U.S. Air Force for research by Stephen Batill, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on the preliminary 




W
e are Manufacturers National Corporation, a major Detroit-based regional bank 
holding company with close to 6,000 employes and assets of $9.3 billion. Our corporation provides a wide variety of financial services to customers worldwide through the corporation's banking and subsidiary offices. 
Representatives of Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit (our principal subsidiary) will be conducting campus interviews for career opportunities within the Metro Detroit area at University of Notre Dame on Wednesday, February 21, 1990. 
We will seek individuals who have a Bachelors degree in a business related field. We offer a wide variety of exciting and challenging career opportunities for: 
• Cost & Financial Analysts in our Controllers Department 
• Corporate Trust Analysts in our Trust Department 
• 
Examiners in our Audit Department 

• 
Credit Analysts in our Commercial Lending Area 


Explore career possibilities with us. Contact your placement office to arrange an on-campus interview. 

Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN 
Joey's Pizza & Subs 
Corner of US 31-33 & State Line Road 
-Subs: 17 Different varieties -Spaghetti & Lasra;;;r..n:..:..:a:;....__________, -Shrimp 

WE DELIVER 
-Fish -Chicken 684-7100 -Taco salads & Burritos -Garlic breads & Bread stix -Ribs (Hickory smoked) 
design of flight vehicle struc­tures. 
•$49,861 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by John Halfman, assis­tant professor of earth sciences, on sedimentation in Lake Turkana, Kenya. 
-e$40]00 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Steven Ruggiero, as­sociate professor of physics, on perpendicular transport in mul­tilayer thin-film systems. 
•$27,500 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by Angel Delgado­Gomez, associate professor of 
Attempting to study for the MCAT alone would be nearly impossible. Attempting to study without Stanley H. Kaplan would simply be a bad career move. 
Maybe it's our 50 years ofexperience. Our small classes. Or the advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the country. 
Whatever it is, ifmedical school is your future, Stanley Kaplan can help you start practicing right now. 
IE STANLEY H. KAPlAN
.&Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Olances 

CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
RESERVE YOUR PLACE 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
romance languages and litera­tures. on the conquistador as historian. 
Awards for service programs totaled $29,152 from private benefactors for various pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 





Spill 
continued from page 1 
"None of the fuel is deemed re­coverable," a news release said. 
"That type of fuel does dissi­pate faster than most oil prod­ucts," Moreth said. "We expect a lot of it has evaporated or has broken up. That's what we're looking for." 
The spill isn't expected to pose a health risk to people in the area, said Barbara Holian, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Environmental Conservation. 
Conservation officials were working with fish and game experts to identify sensitive ar­eas and protect them with booms, she said. 

a e 6 The Observer Monday, January 22, 1990 


Mon. Thurs. 
r···················--·, r·····················-,
1 BEAT THE CLOCK 1 1 THICK THURSDAY 1 
I I I . I 
I I 1 Preser_rt th1s.coupon and receive 1 
1 Order 1 large original pizza with 1 1 1 med1um p1zza smo·thered in cheese 1
1 1 toppinQ between 4 and 7 PM 1 I and pepperoni. 1
It's a pizza lover's dream come true. Every
1 and the t1me on the clock is the 1 
I I

day this week, you can get a special offer
I price that you pay. 1 
I PAN $6.00 ORIGINAL $5.00 I

from Domino's Pizza~ Whether it's free extra 
I I : Offer valid Monday's onlyl Dll : crust or a free small cheese pizza, there's : Offer valid Thursday's onlyl : more reasons to make this the week for a
: OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 I I


mot : 

I I special treat from Domino's Pizza. So why I OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 ~ 1
I valid at parllc•patlng Jlotes only NOC valid wllh any other offer Prk:ea may vary. I I Valid 11 participating ltores only. Noc valtd with any ocher offer. Prlcea may vwy. I
not give us a call? In 30 minutes or less, 
1 Customer payslales tax where applicable. Dellwry .,.. llmttltd to ensure .,..

I ~~=:~:=~~~.:~h~~.: g::':~~~,.~.~~:·:n~~:U: ~::: I driving Our dnvera carry leas than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized lor llle I1 del•ver~s C1G8S. Oom•no's Pizza. Inc. 1/Sb/cm 1 you'll see why this is the week you've been I deiiYOroeo C>1989 Domino's PIUll, lnt 1/Sb/cm 1 
waiting for. 

·-----········----······ 

·----------------------· 
CALL US! 



271-0300 
1835 South Bend Ave. 



Tues. Fri. 
r·····················-, r·····················-, 
1 TRIPLE TUESDAY 1 DOUBLE DINNER DEAL :
I I 
I

I I Present this coupon and receive 2-12"
1 Present this coupon and receive 1 I
original pizzas with 2 toppings and 

1 3 small original cheese pizzas 1 I 
2 COKES for $11.49. I1 for $6.99. Additional toppings available 
I 

Offer valid Friday's only! I IOffer valid Tuesday's onlyl I I





II. I 

OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 
DOMINO'S OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 I 
I VOIId o1 partlclpollng -•• only NOC Yllld with ony OChor oltor Pricft may vory I . PIZZA 1/olld 01 partlclpotlng 010<8o only. Noc Yllld with ony ocher oltor. Prien may ..wy. I I Cu-payo oOioo 1U """"' appllclll>lo Dollwry uwol...,..... to onoure oole 1 ~ DELIVERSe ~~~~=~-:.~::::·~":~,.:::':or:.=u:: I
driving Out dr'-tc.,.ry le11 thon S20JlCl Our dn-. .,. noo ponallad lor lOlaI doll-ln. C>11188 Oomlno'o Plua. Inc. 1/sb/cm I • 
dell-'"-C>IIMIII Domlno'o Pizza, Inc. 1/sb/cm I 

•••••••••••••••••••••••• • • I!> 
FREE. •••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Weds. Sun. Sat. 
r·····················-, r·····················-, r·····················-,
WILD WEDNESDAY I DOUBLE FEATURE : PARTY SPECIAL 
Present this coupon and receive I Present this coupon and receive I Present this coupon and receive 2-14" 1 small original pepperoni pizza I 2 small original cheese pizzas : original pizzas with 2 toppings and for $2.99. Additional toppings available for $5.29. 4 COKES for $12.99.
1 Dll 1 
at an additional charge. 
I I 
1 Offer valid Sunday's onlyl 1 Offer valid Saturday's only I Offer valid Wednesday's only! 
OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 II. !OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 OFFER EXPIRES: 6/30/90 

151111. ~ 


VOitd 01 partlclpollng -only. NOC Yllld with ony OChel' oltor. Pr1coo may '-Y· I Valid 01 partlclpollng ...,., only. Noc Yllld with ony ochor oltor. PrieN may vory. I Volld o1 por11cipollng -only. NOC Yllld wilh ony OCher oltor. 1'1-may voty. Cu-payo ..... w """"' appl-. Oolhrery uwol...,..... to"""'"' Nil I Cu.aomer pays.U.. LU where llppllcable. O.Wvery .,.. llmhlld 10 enau,. ..,.I ~0::=~=~=:=:-;.u~~= I driving. Our drMrl corry ln.o than S20Jl(l Out drl-. oro nol ponOIIDd lor IOio driving. Out dri,..ro corry 1n.o than 120.00. Our drl-. aro noc ponOIIDd lor 101eI -le~ C>IIMIII Oomlno'o Pizza, Inc. I doll_..._ C>1989 Oomlno'o Pizza, Inc. 1/sb/cm I doll,.rln. C>IIMIII Dornlno'o Pizzo, Inc. 1/sb/cm 
Our drtw.-carry leu than $20.00. Llm118d delivery area.

~--------------------· C1890 Domino's Plua, Inc. ·--------------------~ 
_____,_....,__
~w-~-----~~~------­
---~-----~ ---~ -----~...---~--­



Business
Monday, January 22, 1990 page 7 
AT&T hurt by failure, hopes for cooperation 
NEWARK, N.J. (AP) -AT&T, industry." 
embarrassed by last week's Legal experts say antitrust massive network failure at laws could limit such an accord what one analyst called but probably would not prevent 
"America's most invincible the companies from putting a company," is considering ask­system in place to serve as ing its competitors for a mu­backups to one another. tual-aid agreement to prevent "We're still looking at the 
similar nationwide shutdowns. feasibility, and this may never Although officials at Ameri­come to pass," said AT&T can Telephone and Telegraph spokesman Harry Baumgart­Co. stress that they are still ner. "The point is, what we are studying such a pact, they say a interested in at AT&T is that 
proposal could be ready this our customers don't experience week. And the company's two anything like this ever again. biggest competitors in the hot Whatever it takes to do that, battle for long-distance cus­we'll do it." tomers say they're willing to The system failure, which consider the idea. hampered long distance calling 
"It's remarkable because nationwide for nine hours they've been battling so bitterly, Monday, was a blow that may with the industry so competi­go deeper than merely bruising tive," said Audrey Stevoff. an the prestige of the No. 1 car­analyst with Duff & Phelpps rier, analysts said. But it will Inc. in Chicago. "It would defi­help AT&T's competitors more nitely be a major change for the than it will hurt AT&T, they 
Congress prepares for budget fights 
WASHINGTON (AP) list that Congress hasn't ac­Congress is bracing for parti­cepted for nine years." san budget fights over defense spending, the Social Security For their part, Republicans system and tax breaks as Pres­are already showing that they ident Bush prepares to unveil will not be bashful about push­his proposed 1991 fiscal plan ing their own budgetary agenda at month's end. this year. In a speech last week, 
Bush's budget, which sources Bush referred to say will call for $1.24 trillion in "demagogues" who are oppos­spending, is already being ing his resurrected proposal to panned by Democrats who con­cut the tax rate on capital trol Congress for its expected gains, which he claims will embrace of assorted dog-eared raise money for government Republican proposals to save coffers. money. These include elimina­tions or reductions of domestic The higher pitched political programs like mass transit aid rhetoric is being fanned by the and energy assistance to the fact that this is an election poor. year. With the entire House and 
one-third of the Senate up for 
"This will be a dinosaur bud­re-election in November, mem­
get, a warm-over of what we've bers of the two parties plan to 
seen before," Senate Budget use the budget to show voters 
Committee Chairman James what they stand for -and how 
Sasser, D-Tenn., said recently. they differ from their oppo­
"It will be the whole laundry nents. 
predict. ing, no company, is perfect,'' can help make sure everybody 
"I think AT&T has been very Aran said. "OK, now the shock who wants to call long distance intelligent about how they're wears off, people say, 'So can, and the logistics are there, handling this and is minimizing they're not perfect."' we'd welcome talking to its effects," said Paul Aran, an He added that AT&T's han­AT&T." analyst with Bear Stearns in dling of the incident has shown The sentiments were echoed New York. "They've taken this that it is a strong company at MCI, which controls about very, very seriously so that it with high standards, and that 12 percent of the long-distance doesn't happen again, and signing on with its rivals in a market. they're working to make it up backup agreement would be a "I think it would be nice to to their customers." bold move. have plans like that in place," 
AT&T has proposed, pending US Sprint has pounced on the said MCI spokesman Dave Federal Communications shutdown to try to increase its Thompson. "We are a service Commission approval, giving its 8 percent of the market. The industry and should do every­80 million customers nine company immediately began thing we can to see that that hours of discount service on running full-page ads in major service is not interrupted." Valentine's Day to compensate newspapers with instructions for the outage. on how to use Sprint "the next Should a backup agreement
Aran said No. 2 MCI Com­time you experience difficulties emerge, MCI and Sprint repre­munications Corp. and No. 3 dialing tong distance." But sentatives can tell potential
US Sprint stand to gain, but the Sprint doesn't rule out cooper­customers that AT&T is alwayspublic relations windfall will be ating with AT&T, either. there as a backup, said an MCI short-lived. "We'd welcome anything in salesman in Boston who did not 
"AT&T has been seen as the industry that will give peo­want to be identified because he something like America's most ple better service," said Sprint was not authorized to speakinvincible company, but noth-spokesman Sid Courson. "If we for the company. 
--.-.. -· ----------------· 
Mishawaka plant joins Korea venture 
MISHAWAKA, Ind. (AP)­ eign  customers,  added  $20 million to AM General's  
The Hummer military vehi­ spokesman Craig Mac Nab.  annual revenues, he added.  
cle's success in the U.S. in­ Han Sun Kim, president of  "We look at this as an ex­ 
vasion of Panama may pay  Kia's Asia Motors Co. Inc.  cellent opportunity  to  add  
off in  new  orders  for  its  subsidiary, said South Ko­ jobs here,"  Armour  said.  
manufacturer, AM General  rean armed forces would like  ··we have the vehicle and we  
Division of LTV Corp.  to buy  as  many as  20,000  have the knowledge. They  
Hummers. He estimated the  are  a  super company and  
AM General and Kia Mo­ order could take as long as  they  know  their  country.  
tors Corp. announced a joint  12 years to complete.  We'll work off the reputa­ 
.venture this week to sell as many as 20,000 of the all­terrain trucks to the South  The South Korean military is eager to buy Hummers be­cause the vehicle is used  tions of both companies." Kia is Korea's second­ 
Korean armed forces. A memorandum of un­derstanding signed Friday between AM General and Kia executives gives the Korean  widely in the country by the U.S. 8th Army and has en­joyed a good reputation with troops from both nations, Kim said.  largest automotive manufac­turer behind Hyundai. It manufactures the Festiva, a subcompact marketed by Ford in the United States.  
company the  go-ahead  to  
seek a Hummer contract from its government.  AM General President James Armour said a Ko­rean Hummer deal would  Under Korean law, any Hummers used by Korean forces would have to be  
AM General officials said the Hummer's performance  bring more jobs to the Mishawaka plant, where ap­ assembled in that country. AM General workers would  
under fire  in Panama has  proximately 1,000 people  assemble what are known as  
bolstered  its  international  now work making about 47  knock-down  kits,  which  
reputation. The company will continue to seek more for- Hummers per shift. The ven­ture could add $15 million to  would be shipped to Korea for final assembly.  

Real U.S. economic outlook confident for new decade 
Controversy and dissent Eighty-one percent said it more (32 percent). cold war is over yet. At make news-it's the nature had been moderately or very Similarly, on drugs, the home, we worry about of the beast, and gives us good for them, and 72 per­Louis Rukeyser most popular answer was money (what else is new?) some of our liveliest read­cent thought it had been the quick fix of cracking but work is getting better at
Tribune Media Services 

ing-but the real economic good for the country, too. down harder on drug im­handling it (64 percent rate 
story as America enters the The problems facing us in ports (47 percent), which themselves good or better at 1990s is that the country is the 1990s-debt, pollution, not only would fail to deal managing money;· where in a surprisingly relaxed and international upheaval-are parently overshadowed the with the problem of the were they when Wall Street confident mood. widely, almost incessantly, angry rhetoric of the left. enormous U. S. demand but needed them?). 
This under-recognized fact reported, but most Ameri­Obviously, though, the would also ignore the huge And, with all the recent 
helps explain such otherwise cans seem to think we will be country is not in a totally domestic production of condemnations of the incomprehensible develop­able to handle them. The happy mood. We worry narcotics. And, with the alleged "Decade of Greed," ments as the economy's re­survey found even more op­about education, drugs and highest percentage of the here's further evidence that fusal to quit and plunge into timism about the next the homeless; we remain nation in history currently while people tsk-tsk a lot at recession, even after a decade than about the last, deeply divided over abortion, employed, 58 percent Hollywood's jeremiads on record seven-plus years of with 83 percent expecting and we feel frustration and nonetheless thought that subject, they always national expansion, and the the 1990s to be good for fear toward the Japanese. providing more jobs was the assume that it is the other electorate's preference for them and 77 percent think­Fully 58 percent said best answer to the problems fellow's emotion. Asked candidates, in both parties, ing the country will have a Japanese purchases of of the homeless. whether Americans in who offer reassurance reasonably. pleasant ride, American real estate and While several of these ar­general were too greedy in rather than revolution. too. businesses represent a eas suggest unformed opin­the 1980s, 56 percent agreed Consider, just for an un­Nor was sense of progress threat to the U.S., and only 9 ion that could be subject to that they sure were. But, fashionably calm moment, restricted, as is sometimes percent thought such more decisive national lead­asked if "you, personally" some of the detailed results suggested, to an affluent purchases should be ership, another area-abor­were too greedy in the of a nationwide poll taken by white majority. In the overall encouraged. But our tion-is clearly a mine field 1980s, fully 77 percent 
the Roper Organization for sample, 49 percent said race willingness to compete is for all who enter. Given four swore that it was "not true 
my television special, "Louis relations in the U.S. are limited: given a number of options, two of which em­of me." Rukeyser's 1990 Money better tha~ they were 10 proposed remedies for phasized women's rights to All in all, then, a country Guide." The results provide years ago (only 14 percent America's educational abortions and two of which aware of many shortcom­an intriguing challenge to said worse). Interestingly, deficiencies, fewer than one would have prohibited most ings, but confident of its the conventional angst. the positive response was in eight chose the Japanese or all abortions, the totals ability, on balance, to go 
For example, despite all even stronger among blacks policy of a longer school showed precisely 48 percent forward. Those who repeat­the media attention to the (51 percent said better, only year. The favored solutions on each side. edly forecast the end of problems of our society in 10 percent said worse), as were having tougher Abroad, Americans gener­American civilization may, the 1980s. most Americans the impact of a succession of standards for teachers (35 ally admire Mikhail Gor­once again, have to bite their had a pretty good decade. black election successes ap-percent) and paying teachers bachev but don't think the tongues in the 1990s. 
... --------­


Viewpoint 
Monday, January 22, 1990

page 8 
Ihe~ObserYer-= 
P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Coccia R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Manhew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor .. .Theresa Kelly Production Manager .. Al1son Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brenn1nkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Bailey OTS Director .Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor . Chnsllne G1ll Controller Anne L1ndner 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un•versl­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1mstrat1on of either mst•tut1on The news •s reported as accurately and ob­1ee11vely as poss•ble. Unsigned ed1tonals represent the optn1on of the majority of the followmg Editor-In-Chief. Manag1ng Editor. Executive News Ed•tor. V•ewpo•nt Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Samt Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes. letters, and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors Column space IS available to all members of the community and the free express1on of varymg op1n1ons on campus.. through letters. IS encouraged. 


'Right to privacy' masks violations of privacy 
and lunatic. plethora of privacy violations in 
Yet the court has done so, areas of genuine privacy rights. and many people support it, Who doesn't know this? and millions upon millions of We have not so much as ques­abortions have been and still tioned the privacy argument, or are carried out. All on the basis looked into its vast destruction of the privacy argument. And of social. economic, political, the real kicker is that privacy and cultural privacy rights. The itself pays an enormous price. few who have stood up against Abortion based on privacy violation of their privacy rights 
rights is the very enemy of pri­-the conceived children's fa­vacy. An infant is put to death thers and grandparents who before he or she can begin to have tried to block an abortion exercise he private right to -are virtually dismissed by the chose whether to live or die. A Courts' privacy-rights abortion pregnant woman is left on her ideology. Yet the complete and own, having suddenly become a necessary forgoing and negat­mother "privately," finding her­ing of privacy in intercourse, self suddenly forced to bear the pregnancy, and abortion is so three notches across the nation; with great sacrifice and de­biologically, psychologically, full responsibility, for all time, obvious to anyone who knows and from the first day pro-life manding discipline; and to be and culturally not private, but of the decision to either raise about the birds and the bees politicians. in fear of losing re­forced unwillingly to forgo that it is socially not private as well. or slay her child. that, given the tens, if not hun­election, began to warne. union can be life's greatest Offspring are society's security The privacy argument gives dreds, of millions of our 
Today the atmosphere is misery. Sexuality-which is to against the future. A society's the father complete freedom to aborted children, we now live charged with the abortion is­say, love-is Nature's greatest continued existence and well­abandon the woman he made with perhaps the biggest Big sue, with pro-choice on the at­gift precisely because in uniting being utterly depend on its chil­pregnant, and to do so not only Lie ever propagated. tack, leveling in all directions individuals it brings life's dren. Who doesn't know that? legally but without facing any Edward Vasta is a professor its central, longest-lasting, greatest pleasure. Who doesn't From any point of view, then, of the pregnancy's biological, of English. completely unchallenged, know that? Who doesn't know pregnancy is not private. psychological, cultural, or so­Supreme-Court-backed argu­that when you turn to another Neither is abortion private. cial consequences. The father is 
LETTERS 

ment: that abortion falls within to make love, you give up pri­Abortion impinges on others free to walk away from a preg­the realm of individual privacy vacy? necessarily, at every level, from nancy with the blessing of the and is therefore a matter of Who doesn't know, therefore, the inner circle of father, Supreme Court. On the other JPW remembered personal choice. that no woman becomes preg­mother, and child to the entire hand, individuals brought into 
Dear Editor:

But this argument is so obvi­nant in private? Who doesn't social community of a nation a new family relationship by a As a senior parent reflectingously false that it serves as an know that pregnancy is triune: and of humanity. Abortion de­pregnancy cannot expect to be on the past year, I would like toexample of The Big Lie. that it necessarily and stroys others. What can be so much as informed of their encourage junior parents to at­Who doesn't know that sexual inescapably involves, directly, more plain that that? A suc­new circumstances -not even tend Junior Parents' Weekendunion is not a private act? That three beings: mother, father, cessful abortion may return the the new grandmother or in February. It is a great timepregnancy is not a private and conceived child? Beyond mother's body -and maybe grandfather, parents of the to meet your son's or daugh­condition? That the conse­the immediate trinity, many even her mind -to its pre­pregnant woman, be that ter's friends and parents. It isquences of abortion are never others are involved indirectly: pregnancy state, but it obliter­woman adult or teenager. 
indeed a cherished weekend inprivate? all the family relations that our ates altogether the existence of And the privacy argument the memories of the Domers ofIndeed, human sexuality is culture, and that human culture the conceived child. And it si­generates laws, funding, facili­the Class of 1990. The JPW is abiologically anti-private. since its beginning, recognizes, multaneously and necessarily ties, and practices easily subject "class act" and the weekendNature propagates the species fosters, and safeguards: obliterates actual circum­to economic and political expresses what Notre Dame isby driving individuals away namely, all the new brothers, stances and a world of possibil­manipulation, manipulation all about-the family. 

from privacy and toward each sisters, grandparents, aunts, ities for everyone else involved. that enables an Establishment Parents, be a part of theother. In lovemaking, no matter uncles, and cousins created by Abortion is patently a com­population to foster population Junior Parents' Weekend. It's athe conditions, privacy is what every pregnancy. These rela­munal event and therefore re­control over poor and minori­time you and your Domer willthe individual not only gives up tionships institute immediately quires a communal decision. ties, among whom most abor­treasure.
but turns against. Humans are a network of dependencies, For anyone, including the tions per population take place, so deeply imprinted with sexual obligations, privileges, and so­Supreme Court of the United and to do so without fear of 
Beverly McCarthy 

need that we are psychologi­cial interactions. A new or dif­States, to make any decision censurP.. Using the ideology of 
Toledo, Ohio

cally forced to escape privacy ferent family world is projected whatever about abortion on the privacy to mask the realities of 

by uniting with another. We can with every pregnancy. 
DOONESBURY 
() () 0 NaT ATAUI UMONT, 0 0 I'V88ee.N IN 
(){...' 0 00 
ANPOUTOF 8UfJI7Y! Hef... 7H.IIT'5 7H8RAPYAU­MORN/N6(
/ o MY !f::,AM5... 
Jan. 10, 1990

basis of privacy is both silly abortion has generated a 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
8lfTf,(JHO lfJ4Nl5 70 HEAR ABOUT MY PROote/115! N08017'1! 1Het'P 0 0 RATHE«~ HMR. Pfi?I)M Z?A Z'3A 
0 GABOR OR 7H8 ~TARY OF 0 t:JeFeNse, NOT 1He CON5Cit:JJCe 0 0OF IAFAYerT6 
fA!Q:.! " WHAT A80UT ME'? 
0 
\ G 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'God is love. And they who abide in love, abide in God, and God in them. ' 

1 John 4:7-8 


--------------~------~--------------,------~----------------~--------~--~~~--~----------------~--~--------~~ 



Accent 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Judy Hilbrich playing Dotty Otley and Eric Hurtt playing Frederick Fellowes conduct an intimate search 
Monday, January 22, 1990 
'Island Son' 
Chamberlain returns to TV as a physician living in Hawaii 
JOE BUCOLO accent writer 
The man who fought off 
Shogun warriors, juggled his 
love for the Church and a young 
lady, and unraveled one of 
Ludlum's best mysteries just 
graduated from medical school. 
Richard Chamberlain returns to 
television in "Island Son." 
Airing at 9 p.m. on Thursdays 
on CBS, "Island Son" presents 
Chamberlain as Dr. Daniel 
Kulani, a respected physician 
and father in Hawaii. Recently 
widowed, Kulani struggles to 
uphold ethics and morale at his 
hospital while instilling these 
same qualities in his son Sam 
(William McNamara.) 
Set against the backdrop of 
beautiful Hawaiian scenery, 
this series explores many of the 
same topics tackled on other 
medical shows. Fortunately, the 
plotlines are always as fresh as 
a blooming hibiscus in May. 
One storyline involves one of 
Sam's friends, Greg. Always 
thirsty and hungry, Greg dis­
covers he has diabetes, but only 
aftPr he collapses while riding 
his bike. Of course. Dr. Kulani 
helps Greg deal with the prob­
lnm. Ironically, the focus of the 
show is not on Greg, but on 
Sam who is disturbed and upset 
by Greg's condition. It is inter­
esting to watch as Sam with­
draws from his friendship with 
Gn~g. gradually accepts the sit­
uation, and returns to Greg's 
side. 
In the spirit of "Trapper 
.John. M.D.," "Island Son" often 
prnsents lighthearted plotlines ·(No, not dancing Hula girls!) 
One story involves a friend of 
Kulani who is also Chief of 
Surgery. The doctor becomes ill 
and Kulani must take care of 
his friend. Ironically, the chief 
of surgery is a terrible patient 
and gradually drives the entire 
hospital staff nuts-probably 
Macadamia nuts since this is 
Hawaii. 
One nice thing about the show 
is that it doesn't force the 
Hawaiian locale down the vie·w­
ers' throats. There are no lu­
aus, surf contests or (sorry 
Bradys) voodoo idol mysteries. Rather, the show treats its viewers to a panoramic view of America's most beautiful state as the main plots unravel. 
This attribute-as well as the others the show offers-are the result of Richard Chamberlain who produces the show and lives in Hawaii. He uses the show to share the beauty of his home state with the viewers. 
Of course, Chamberlain has proven his acting ability time and time again. His portrayal of Dr. Kulani is impeccable. He seems quite at home standing over patients and prescribing medications. McNamara, who starred in "Dream a Little Dream," portrays a very fine young man haunted by the death of his mother and coping with the traumas of the teen years. 
This is not to say the charac­ters are perfect; they are not. Of most concern is the way in which the writers portray Kulani's intelligence. He con­stantly spews forth "profound" statements that tend to be con­descending or downright stupid. 
For example, when Greg says he doesn't like having to give himself insulin shots, that he doesn't like being different, Kulani says that everyone is different; that's what makes being human so great. No, that's what gives TV a bad name. Come on. No doctor would use that as an explana­tion and no patient would ac­cept it. 
In short, "Island Son" is an excellent show that needs some sharpening, mainly in the form of Kulani's dialogue. Besides this hairline fracture in "Son's" structure, the show is smart and fresh. "Island Son" is in perfect health. 

for contact lenses in the zany comedy, Noises Off, which opens this weekend at Washington Hall. tirely new direction by under-

Expanding his horizons, Richard Chamberlain portrays Dr. Daniel Kulani, a respected doctor in a large Honolulu hospital, on the new CBS drama "Island Son." 
l 
/ 

The tropical beauty of Hawaii provides the backdrop for Dr. John Kulani's struggles to balance a hectic professional career with the responsibility of raising his son Sam Kulani (William McNamara) 
'Noises Off' promises an off-the-wall evening of satire, farce and sardines 
Special to the Observer 
For a night of farc0, theater and sardines, Noises Off is the play to see. This recent success­ful Broadway play which mocks and glorifies the cliches in the theater, will be presented by the Saint Edward's Hall Players from Thursday, January 25 to Sunday, January 28. 
Noises Off is a play within a play, and opens with a stereo­type of a somewhat deranged touring company rehearsing Nothing On, a conventional farce. The rehearsal seen in the first act bursts into perfor­mance in the second act with the entire set reversed. The au­dience experiences a raucous cavalcade of noises offstage that wreak havoc on the actors and heighten the hilarity of the performance. The final act sweeps the audience in an en­
The audience 
experiences a raucous 
cavalcade of noises-· 
off~lage that wreak -havoc on the actors 
,._
and heighten the 
hilarity of the 
performance. 
mining, rebuking and satirizing 
all that was established in the 
previous acts. 
Noises Off requires an elabo­
rate, two-story, revolving set, 
as well as having difficult tech­­
nical aspects, and so makes 
this production an ambitious 
student effort. The Saint 
Edward's Hall Players is an en­
tirely student-run organization. 
-
Tickets are available in ad­vance for three dollars at LaFortune Student Center in­formation center. Remaining tickets will be sold at the door. 

J 
_j 
Monday, January 22, 1990
The Observer

page 10 
McEnroe's temper prompts ejection from Australian Open 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) 
-So much for Mr. Nice Guy. 
John McEnroe. still crazy 
after all these years. threw his 
racket and a tantrum Sunday 
at the Australian Open and 
became the first player tossed 
out of a Grand Slam event for 
misconduct. 
He let himself get rattled by 
missed shots. close calls and a 
baby's cries. and after his 
default. with a 6-1. 4-6. 7-5, 2­
4 lead against Mikael Pernfors, 
McEnroe admitted, "I don't 
really have anyone to blame but 
myself." 
It was a sad and bizarre 
chapter in the career of one of 
the finest players in tennis, a 
30-year-old former champion 
who came here determined to 
win his first major tournament 
since the 1984 U.S. Open. 
Defending champions Ivan 
Lend! and Steffi Graf overcame 
unusually sloppy play earlier 
Sunday while American 
amateur sensation Angelica 
Gavaldon kept rolling to reach 
the quarterfinals. 
Gavaldon. an effervescent 16­year-old from Coronado, Calif. who entered as a qualifier ranked 192. upset 15th-seed Gigi Fernandez 6-3. 1-6. 6-2. Gavaldon, who beat former two-time champion Ilana Mandlikova in the third round. next meets West German Claudia Porwik. who beat South African Dinky van Rensburg 7­6, 3-6. 6-4. 
Lend! hit 46 errors yet never was threatened in beating Australian Simon You! 6-1. 6-3, 6-1. Unseeded Soviet Andrei Cherkasov upset No. 9 Andres Gomez of Ecuador 2-6, 6-3, 7-6 (8-6), 7-6 (7-5). 
Graf started with an ace and ended with another one to notch her 45th straight victory. 6-2. 6-3. over 13th-seed RafTaella Reggi. Helena Sukova, who lost the 1989 finals against Graf, ended the surprising surge of Japan's Kimiko Date 6-4, 6-3. 
But the McEnroe episode overshadowed all other play on Sundav. 
Only two days before, after winning his third match and playing his best tennis in years. McEnroe talked about how important it is for him to keep his temper under control. 
Yet all it took for McEnroe to revert to his old ways was a tough match against Pernfors, the Swedish-born two-time NCAA champion at Georgia. 
McEnroe won the first set easily. but as Pernfors picked up his game in the second set. McEnroe became increasingly agitated. After netting a short drop shot. he smashed the ball on the ground as if it were an annoying bug. 
He smacked another ball after a missed forehand and nearly hit a ballboy. He asked for new balls before serving the lOth game. complaining the old ones were dead. but was broken for the set -his third straight break -on Pernfors' backhand volley of a shallow lob. 
McEnroe slammed a ball in the air after a miss in the first game of the third set and almost hit Pernfors in the back. then stalled between shots by pacing angrily behind the baseline. Pernfors, bothered by the tactics. was broken. 
McEnroe took a 2-1 lead after an exchange of breaks. but on the changeover he stood in front of a lineswoman he thought made a bad call. 
Bouncing a ball on his racket and glaring at her in intimidating fashion, McEnroe was hit with a code violation for unsportsmanlike conduct by umpire Gerry Armstrong. 
McEnroe argued with Armstrong. then returned to play. finally held service, and went on to take the set. 
He seemed to be in control of 
the match and himself again, 
but suddenly became distracted 
by a erving baby while serving 


American John McEnroe was disqualified from the 1990 Australian Open this weekend because of his constant verbal abuse of the line judges. McEnroe, at the time of disqualification, was beating Michael Pernfors in the semi-final of the Grand Slam event. 
the sixth game, with Pernfors  a wide forehand. then bounced  and talked with McEnroe, but  
ahead 3-2.  his  racket  on  the  court.  At  the  American  continued  
"Give him a drink. the boy's  deuce.  McEnroe  hit  another  complaining and swearing, his  
hungry,"  McEnroe  yelled.  forehand wide. then smashed  four-letter  words  clearly  
looking up in the section of the  the court again with his racket,  audible.  
stands  where  the  baby  was  cracking the head slightly.  Armstrong,  with  Farrar's  
crying.  Armstrong  called  a  code  approval,  called,  "Code  
Armstrong asked the parents  violation for racket abuse. and  violation, further abuse. default  
to  take  the  baby  out  of the  McEnroe  responded  by  Mr.  McEnroe.  Game,  set  
stadium, and after the mother  swearing at him and asking for  match." Farrar later described  
and baby left, a fan yelled, "Can  Ken  Farrar, the  Grand  Slam  McEnroe's  harangue  as  the  
we breathe, John?"  chief of supervisors.  most vile language he'd  ever  
McEnroe fell behind 15-30 on  Farrar came onto the cour.t  heard in a tennis match.  

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 


Classifieds 
NOTICES  WANTED ENTHUSIASTIC STUDENTS TO RUN TRIPS FOR  FOR SALE  Farley Hall Players are looking for musicians to participate in the  JUNIORS  SUMMER JOB FAIR! -CCE  
SPRING BREAK. EARN FREE  March production of Godspellll  JUNIORS  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24  
Word Processing Can return on disk Pick up and delivery 271-9114  TRIPS AND COMMISSIONS. TRIPS INCLUDE DAYTONA BEACH, MEXICO, JAMAICA AND BAHAMS. IF IN-TERESTED PLEASE CALL TODD AT 1-800­ 1986 BUICK SKYLARK, 4-DOOR, AM-FM STEREO CASSETIE, 44,000 MILES. POWER STEERING & POWER BRAKES.  Any interested guitarists (electric), basists, pianists, floutists or percussionists please contact Amalia at 4021.  CHICAGO TRIP 1/27-1/28 TIX ON SALE NOW AT  1:00 -5:00P.M. -Bring copies of profile or resumes, Looking for a Summer Job? Come to the SUMMER JOB FAIR  
WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OF  265-1799. STUDENT TRAVEL  272-5651. MAKE OFFER.  ADOPTION  JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE  at the CCE -Wednesday, January  
BIG SCREEEN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO $1,400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!II Objective: Fundraiser Commitment: Minimal Money: Raise $1,400 Cost: Zero Investment Campus organizations, clubs,  SERVICES. AITENTION: EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLE WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868  TWO SETS OF BAHAMAS TICKETS FOR SALE. IN HAND. CALL 287-5162. 75 Volvo 164E. Classic styling, high miles, some rust. $1200. Call  Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512  LIMITED SUPPLY DON'T MISS IT II hiag  24 -1:00-5:00p.m. Bring copies of your profile or resume. All majors welcome. SUMMER INTERN OPPORTUNITIES I Bring profiles  
frats, sororities call OCMC: 1 (800)932-0528/1 (800)950-8472, ext. 10 USED TEXTBOOKS AT A DISCOUNT! Pandora's Books 233-2342  Earn $300-$500 per week reading books at home. Callt-615-473­7440 Ext. 9340 BE ON T.V. many needed for commercials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. call  289-9067. Leave message. I ' TICKETS NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S (Jan. 27)  If you are taking these classes I can sell you the books cheaply: HIST "Women's Place in America" Prof. Hoy, GOTH lntro to Advertising Prof. Thurin. Call x3442.  KERRY BROWN turns 20 on the 24th!ll!llll! Any male interested in trying out for Irish Accent's pertormance of See How They Run, memorize a 1­ or resumes and meet with company recruiters at the CCE -Wed., January 24 1 :00 -5:00 p.m.  
corner of N.D. ave. and Howard (615) 779-7111 Ext. T-1481 ATIENTION: EASY WORK I LOST/FOUND I EXCELLENT PAYI Assemble products at home. Details (I) 602­GLASSES LOST--BLACK CASE 838-8885 Ext. W-6262 PLEASE CALL STEVE x1581 ATIENTION: EARN MONEY TYPING AT HOME! 32,000/yr LOST SILVER ROSARY DURING income potential. Details. (I) 602­FINALS!! PLEASE CALL IF YOU 838-8885 Ext. T-6262 FOUND IT-MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. X4286 l L--_w_ANT__e_o__.....l I"'"~~~~,:,,.., AITENTION-HIRINGI Furnished, secure home, 5  -parents' anniversary x4352 PERSONALS 1 OUT OF EVERY 8 COLLEGE WOMEN IS RAPED ON A DATE. DO YOU CARE? COMING JAN. 25 HEYARTI! If I sacrifice a whole HOUR of study on Saturday night, does that prove that I am not a throat?  Happy Birthday MCGII You have managed to survive for 21 years, despite your driving problems -especially with mopeds! Congrats and have a great day. --Mert VITO'S BARBERSHOP $5.00 HAIRCUTS  2 min. mon. and be at Holy Cross Hall7:00 Tues 23. Q? x3150. RIGHT TO LIFE Phone-a-thon organizational meeting 9 pm lues 1/23 Montgomery Theater LaF MANDA TORY FOR DORM REPS female student needed to share Campus View apt. for remainder of semester call 2774322 LOCKERS LOCKERS LOCKERS  h'a been a blast the last 2 years-let's make It a thlrdll SPRING BREAK Cancun, Rio, Bahamas, and Bennuda Call Doua 283-1818 HITOPH 1111 HAVE A SUPER DAYIII  
Govllll'!ment jobs-your area. $17,840-$69.485. Callt-602-838­ bedrooms,}\'/0 Close to NO  NO STUDENTS WELCOME  Only $2.50 for the rest of the  WANTED:  
- 8885. Ext. R6262. ATIENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKSI $32,000/year income potential. Details. (I) 602­938-8885 Ext. Bk6262 Earn $300-$500 per week  Coimpetitive rent. 264-6010 NICE FURNISHED H(¥S FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 8838889 Seek Responsible Roommate Grad/Law/Fac/Staff -luxury  SPRINGBRFAK SAILING BAHAMAS 45ft Captained Yachts Groups of Eight Seven Days Barefoot in the Bahamas $455.00 each All Accommodation & Meals  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST, S.B. 233-4767 100 CHILDREN ARE WAITING TO BE MATCHED WITH ND/SMC BIG BROTHERS AND SISTERS.  school yearl Available at the Information Desk in LaFortune. NEED A BREAK ALREADY? Go to Chicago on the Windy  One male and one female lifesize, anatomically correct mannequins at the Senior Class Office by Friday, Jan. 26. The first person to bring both mannequins during office hours, 3-5 Mon.-Fri. receives a FREE Senior Formal bid. No questions asked.  

Reading books at home. Call1-condo, close to NO, reasonable SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE DO YOU CARE? City Shuttle I $1 0.00 at the 
Parrot Heads Foreverlll 

615-473-7440 Ext. 9340 239 5080, 272 9455 1-800-999-7245 Anytime COMING JAN. 25 Information Desk in LaFortune. 
Monday, January 22, 1990 The Observer page 11 
Houston's Ware may opt for NFL 
WASHINGTON (AP) Heisman Trophy winner Andre Ware says he may change his mind and skip his senior season at Houston to join the NFL. 
Ware, who holds 26 NCAA passing and total offense records, has repeatedly stated that he would return to Houston next season. But he appeared to soften his stance Saturday night in remarks made prior to an awards ban­quet. 
"There's always the possibil­ity of things changing," he said. "If I explore some things and find out that it's better for my­self to come out this year than next, it's certainly a possibility that I will." 
However, Ware said he would return to school if he had to 
make a decision right now. 
"A lot has transpired over the past two weeks, but right now I have every intention of going back to school," he said. "If I want to pursue other things, that's something I can certainly do when the time comes." 
Ware, honored as college back of the year by the Touchdown Club, said there isn't much more he can ac-;om­plish as a college football player. But there appear to be other reasons for him to bypass his final year at Houston, including the departure of Coach Jack Pardee to the Houston Oilers and the possibility that the NFL will institute a pay scale for rookies. 
"If I were to explore all the 
possibilities -and I'm sure 
there may come a point in time 
when I want to do that -I will 
pursue it and see what's out 
there for Andre," Ware said. 
In an interview prior to the banquet, NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue said the league may ease restrictions on ath­letes who wish to play in the NFL before using up their col­lege eligibility. 
"We'll have to clarify the rule," Tagliabue said. "It will involve some liberalization, but it will also involve drawing a line below which we would not make exceptions." 

No. 25 Alabama upsets LSU in Tuscaloosa, 70-55 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. {AP)­James Sanders scored 21 points and helped hold Southeastern Conference leading scorer Chris Jackson far below his average as No. 25 Alabama defeated No. 13 LSU 70-55 Sunday. 
The outcome left Alabama, LSU lind Tennessee in a three-way tie atop the con­ference with 4-2 records. 
Sanders and Keith Askins combined to hold Chris Jackson, who was averaging 
28.3 points, to only 11 be­fore he fouled out with just over a minute left. 
Melvin Cheatum scored 20 points for Alabama (13-4). Maurice Williamson with 12 points led LSU (11-3), which seemed less than fresh after defeating Notre Dame 87-611 in New Orleans a day earlier. 
LSU closed to four points early in the second half. Then, with Alabama leading 44-39, Sanders hit a 3­pointer and a 2-pointer, David Benoit added a basket and Alabama was up 51-41 with 11:20 left. 
The Tigers trailed 59-51 with five minutes left after two baskets by Shaquille O'Neal but Sanders and Cheatum scored for Alabama. 
LSU got the game's first basket and Alabama then scored 14 straight points. 

Only for studentAmerican Express® Cardmembers. Apply for the American Express® Card. • 10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT-with speed the process.) Then get ready to take off. In search of your own personalized discount card, valid Keep in mind that our Automatic adventure, action-or just simply to escape. through january 1991 on all Northwest and Acceptance Program makes it easier for American Express and Northwest Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount you to become a Cardmember now, as a Airlines have arranged these extraordinary is not applicable to the $118 student student, than it will ever be again. travel privileges on Northwest -exclusively certificates and other certificates, And remember that as a Cardmem­for student Cardmembers: promotional or special status airfares.) ber you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits • CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE • 2,500 BONUS MILES 1DWARDS FREE TRAVEL­and personal service you would expect from OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS-to many when you enroll in Northwest's WorldPerks® American Express. of the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­Free Travel Program. So don't miss out on a world of great uous United States served by Northwest. experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBEREach certificate is good for a six-month the Card. And start packing!IS AS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL.period, and they will arrive within six just pick up the phone, call 1-800-942­weeks after you receive the Card. Current AMEX, and talk to us. We'll take yourCardmembers will automatically receive application and begin to process ittheir $118 certificates by March 15, 1990 immediately. (If you have your banking provided they are still full time students~ information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help Membership Has Its Privileges• APPLY TODAY 1-800-942-AMEX ~ NORTHWEST AIRLINES *If you are already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of your student ID and class schedule to: American Express, P.O. Box 35029, Attn: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00), Denver ($2.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, call I-800-942-AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.  
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS"' CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER.  

Monday, January 22, 1990

page 12 The Observer 
Weekend action proves to be upsetting to top collegiate teams; Kansas falls to Tigers 
(AP)-First, top-ranked Kansas took the pipe. Then, No. 3 Oklahoma. Later, second­ranked Georgetown and No. 5 Syracuse fell by the wayside, and so did sixth-rated Michigan and No. 7 Illinois. 
Six of the nation's top tO­rated teams lost on Saturday, and that left a lot of room at the top in college basketball. 
No. 4 Missouri defeated previously unbeaten Kansas 95­87 at Columbia, Mo., and probably will assume the top spot when rankings come out on Tuesday. 
"I'd rather be No. 3," Missouri guard Lee Coward said. "When you're No. 1, Georgia Tech at Virginia, No. 13 LSU at No. 25 Alabama and No. 16 UCLA at California. No. 4 Missouri 70, No. 1 Kansas 65 
Doug Smith scored 19 of his 23 points in the second half and Missouri rallied past Kansas (19-1 ).Missouri trailed by as many as nine points in the first half and Kansa was up 46-43 at intermission. 
The Tigers (17 -1) took the lead with 17 minutes left as 
Smith and Anthony Peeler 
combined for 17 of Missouri's 
final 18 points. 
"At halftime there were a lot 

of sad faces," said Peeler, who 
scored 24 points. 
we can get away from that stuff." Connecticut made seven of its eight free throws in the final 
1:04 for the victory at the Hartford Civic Center. Nadav Henefeld's 3-pointer with 3:46 left broke a 60-60 tie, and the Huskies (15-3) did not trail again. 
Connecticut now has beaten Syracuse and Georgetown in the Big East. The Hoyas fell to 14-1. No. 23 Arizona 78, No. 3 Oklahoma 74 
Sean Rooks and Jud Buechler each had 18 points as Arizona 

Hattfield named Clemson coach despite players' protest 
CLEMSON, S.C. (AP)-Ken Hatfield of Arkansas ac­cepted the head coaching job at Clemson on Sunday, and a threatened player boycott was averted after he met with the team. 
Hatfield, who coached the Razorbacks for six years and led them to the Cotton Bowl the past two seasons, replaces Danny Ford, who resigned Thursday, less than two weeks after the NCAA accused Clemson of recruit­ing violations. 
"We understand it's a very difficult situation and time, but I promise you that things will work out," he said. "There's nothing that can't be accomplished if every­body's part of the team and you're part of something that's bigger than yourself." 
Clemson athletic director Bobby Robinson said it took a person of "great strength and fortitude and confi­dence" to take the job fol­lowing the NCAA investiga­tion and the uproar sur­rounding Ford's resignation. 
"We looked and we talked to a lot of people. The name that we always kept coming to was Ken Hatfield," Robinson said. 

you're setting yourself up to be  Connecticut  70,  No.  2  won  at  Tucson,  where  the  
knocked off."  Georgetown 65  Wildcats (11-3) have won 41 in  
Connecticut beat Georgetown  "The  No.  1  ranking is  the  a  row.  After averaging 122.2  
70-65, and that left the nation  least  of  my  concerns,"  points  per  game,  Oklahoma  
without a major unbeaten. No.  Georgetown  coach  John  (12-2) has scored just a total of  
23  Arizona  beat  No.  3  Thompson  said.  "The  only  125 points  in  two  straight  
Oklahoma 78-74, and Syracuse  positive thing about the loss is  losses.  

fell 87-86 to Providence. Iowa beat Michigan 78-76 in overtime, and No. 24 Purdue whipped Illinois 81-68. 
In other games involving ranked teams, it was No. 8 Duke 97, Wake Forest 69; No. 10 Louisville 86, Memphis State 69; No. 12 Arkansas 100, Texas A&M 84; No. 13 LSU 87, Notre Dame 64; No. 15 St. John's 65, Boston College 59; No. 17 La Salle 84, Holy Cross 81; No. 18 Oregon State 70, Washington 63; North Carolina 91, No. 19 N. Carolina State 81; No. 20 Xavier, Ohio 83, St. Louis 74; No. 21 Loyola Marymount 131, Portland 106, and No. 22 Minnesota 83, Ohio State 78. 
Sunday's schedule had No. 11 
SPRING BREAK '90 ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 




ACAPULCO ~ 

$499. ~ 
1,.­
8 Days/7 Nights Air & Hotel PLUS, PLUS... ~ from Chicago If 
ONL V 20 MORE SEATS LEFT!!!!~ FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: ~ BOB AT 1-800-328-6028 ~ 

CALL TODAY!! ~ 
ND/SMC SKI CLUB PRESENTS: 


WINTER PARK/MARY JANE, CO Sat. March I 0 -Sun. March 18 

$417 -transportation via Amtrak Train $287 -without transportation 
* 6 nights lodging * 5 day or 6 day lift ticke 

* Hot Tubs * Group Party Infonnational Meeting: Mon. f Jan. 22 8:00pm Nieuwland Science Bldg. nn 118 
Questions -Call: Mike 3662 Mary Beth 2962 Kimbo 284-4342 

THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON LAW & GOVERNMENT 


PRESENTS A LECTURE 
BY 

SENATOR JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR. CHAIRMAN, SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE ON 


''NO QUICK FIX: DRUGS IN AMERICA'' 
TONIGHT, JANUARY 22, 1990 7:30P.M. HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
_, 
Monday, January 22, 1990 The Observer page 13 
NCAA and UNLV'sTark mayfinally reach accord 
LAS VEGAS (AP)-A 13-year legal battle between Nevada­Las Vegas basketball coach Jerry Tarkanian and the NCAA, which went all the way to the 
U.S. Supreme Court, may be nearing an end. 
Reports said that the NCAA has agreed to a settlement which would call for Tarkanian paying a judgment of $21,000 and assuming his own legal fees -estimated at $340,000. 
Jack Kitchin, a Kansas City lawyer who represents the NCAA, said Friday an agree­ment may be near that would resolve the issue with the asso­ciation, Tarkanian and UNLV. 
The resolution would involve 
only the legal battles dating 
back to 1977, and would not 
involve any future actions the 
NCAA might take, Kitchin said. 
The NCAA placed UNLV on two years probation in 1977 for alleged recruiting violations and ordered Tarkanian sus­pended from coaching for two years. 
The university served the probation, but Tarkanian ob­tained a court order and con­tinued coaching, compiling the winningest record among the nation's active coaches. 
The issue of his suspension went to the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled in December 1988 that the NCAA had the right to order a coach sus­pended without due process. 
The same ruling said a uni­versity could not suspend a coach, however, without providing that due process. 
Since that ruling, the NCAA has been trying to decide what action, if any, to take against Tarkanian. 
The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street Mishawaka 



259-6322 
Hours: 7 30 a.m. -9:00 p.m. -7 days a week 
WASHER.§ ONLY 85¢ 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up, wash. dry. fold. deliver SAME DAY SERVICE 
O'Neai-Roberts impress Irish 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
NEW ORLEANS -Perhaps Notre Dame's Keith Tower best described playing against Louisiana State's mammoth front line of Shaquille O'Neal and Stanley Roberts. 
Said Tower, "We were leaning on them, pushing them, holding them and grabbing them. It took all of that to move them an inch." 
That duo of O'Neal and Roberts lifted the 13th-ranked Tigers over the Irish 87-64 Saturday in the Superdome and posted some amazing statistics. 
Roberts, 7-foot and 288 pounds, scored 18 points and pulled down nine rebounds, while O'Neal, 7-foot l-inch and 286 pounds, had 17 points and a game-high 13 boards. And for complementary measures, the Tigers threw in six-foot seven-inch forward Wayne Sims, who scored eight points and had three rebounds. 
The LSU front line outmus­cled Notre Dame inside for most of the afternoon. They pushed, shoved and fought for position under the basket. Not only did they usually get the po­sition, but they also gqt rave reviews from the Notre Dame players. 

"Those two guys are the biggest guys I've went up against since I've been playing the game," Notre Dame's Keith Robinson said. "It was a very physical game. We had seen tapes of them, but it was dif­ferent actually going out on the floor against them." 
Said Tower, "That's probably the best front line in the coun­try. They're so pl!_~sically strong and it's not that tBey've got only one strong player. They've got two of them. It was frustrating just because they were executing better than we were." 
The Irish came into the game outrebounding opponents by more than nine boards per con­test. The Tigers made thai a 25-rebound difference, tallying 41 boards to just 25 for the Irish. 
Notre Dame tried a variety of defenses to counter Roberts and O'Neal, but nothing seemed to work. The duo also shined on the defense end, blocking five Irish shots. 
"They did a good job of get­
ting the ball inside," Notre 
All are invited to the: 
Knights of Columbus 
OPEN HOUSE 
7-10 pm, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday at the Knights of Columbus Hall, located next to the Bookstore. There will be refreshments. 
Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "We didn't do a good job of doubling down on the RfSt feeds. They just intimidate you when you go inside." 
Roberts and O'Neal made their presence known early, combining to score LSU's first six points. When Ellis hit a jumper to tie the game at 14­14, O'Neal responded with a three-point play for a 17-14 Tiger advantage. 
But their biggest contribution in the first half may not have been a basket. With 5:04 to play, Roberts drew the third foul on Robinson. 
"I think I got kind of frus­trated because I was trying to establish position inside," Robinson said. "There was a lot of pushing inside. In the second half. I thought I could get things going again." 
Roberts and O'Neal kept things going in the second half. O'Neal opened the half with a lay-up and then drew the fourth foul on Robinson. When Notre Dame cut the lead to 52-40 ­the smallest margin of the sec­ond half -it was Roberts who quieted the rally with a quick basket underneath. 
With the score 59-46, Roberts scored six straight Tiger points, the final a reverse slam in the transition game that put an exclamation point on the afternoon for LSU. 
With over 44,000 fans in at­tendance and millions more watching on national television, Roberts and O'Neal made a strong case for being the best frontcourt duo in college bas­ketball. 
And few Irish players would 
argue with that on Saturday. 


ATCH OUT WORLD!! 
E GODDESS OF LIGHT & BEAUTY 
IS LEGAL!! 



HAPPY BIRTHDAY DARLIN'!! 

'**************************.. 
ATTENTION ACCOUNTING SENIORS 
...ILA§lr «:: IIllANCIE lr ((J) IR IE CG IT §l:r IE IR 
FOR REGISTRATION AND INFORMATION stop by 
~**************************1 
Monday, January 22, 199~

page 14 The Observer 

LSU-ND matchup helps the homeless; Money headed to South Bend and New Orleans 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
NEW ORLEANS -Louisiana State won the basketball game 87-64 over Notre Dame Saturday in the Superdome. 
But the winners of the bigger game were America's homeless, who will benefit from the pro­ceeds of the basketball contest. A record of 68,112 paid to see the game, while 44, 233 fans actually attended the game. 
"Nobody loses when it comes to the homeless," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "Don't be misled by the box score of who scored and who won. Understand the other box score. 
"We've been on the road the past two weeks and we've seen it (homeless). Until we get our resources together, we have got a serious problem." 
The game was billed as "Hoops That Help." Comic Relief, an organization made up of the best known comedic 
LSU 
continued from page 16 
Phelps said. "You've got to do a lot of things to keep them from scoring. You're not going to see many teams like LSU come March." 
The Irish stayed close early in the game. Down 12-8 with 
15:05 to play in the half, Notre Dame forced a tie at 14-14 when Ellis scored six straight points to a jumper from Jackson. The Irish took their only lead of the game at 18-17 with 10:53 remaining when Ellis capped a fast break with a slam dunk. 
But just 21 seconds later, the momentum changed for good. Ellis tried to cap a steal with a length-of-the-court drive, but was called for an offensive foul. The Tigers then outscored the Irish by a 23-10 count and went into the lockeroom with a 40­28lead. 
"We just didn't shoot well in the first half," Phelps said. "That put us in a hole and we never recovered from that." 
LSU built the lead to 19 at 48-29 on an offensive rebound bucket by O'Neal with 17:17 to play. The Irish slowly fought back and cut the advantage to 52-40 with 11:26 remaining in 
the  game,  but would  get  no  
closer than that.  
Ellis  led  the  Irish  with  19  

points followed by Fredrick with 16 and Jackson with 10. 
NOTES -Phelps will try again for his 400th career victory on Wednesday against Wichita State...The game with the Shockers will be the first of a three-game homestand which includes contests with Miami (Fla.) on Saturday and Dayton next Tuesday. . . The paid at­tendance of 68,112 set a regu­lar-season record, but the ac­tual count of 44,233 did not set a mark for either team. 

types in the country. assisted in promoting and coordinating the event. Comic Relief has raised and distributed more than 8.3 million dollars to homeless men, women and chil­dren. 
Saturday's game should re­sult in thousands of dollars to help the homeless problem. Homeless centers in South Bend and New Orleans will receive $50,000 each from the game, while millions more raised through ticket sales and phone pledges will go to centers across the country. 
Making this cause even more special is that Notre Dame is one of the few -maybe the only -universities to own and oper­ate a homeless center. Notre Dame operates Center for the Homeless in South Bend. 
"I don't think a lot of the people came just to see Notre Dame play LSU," said Father Steve Newton, the first director of the center in South Bend and rector in Sorin Hall. "It's great to see a basketball team go be­yond themselves and realize it's only a game." 
Father Newton, who also ac­companied the team to New Orleans, estimates that almost 3,000 people are homeless in the South Bend area. The local center opened in December of 1988 and offers a variety of services, including shelter, medical clinics, a mental health center, job training, legal ser­vices, educational programs and food services. 
Father Newton, who oversaw the beginning of the center and has since relinquished his duties as director, says the center has had a positive effect on the South Bend community. 
"I think it's helped in a lot of ways." he said. "It helped the community realize the problem and it began to directly help the homeless themselves. It helped people look for solutions to the problem." 
And with creative ideas like Saturday's basketball game, help and aid should continue for America's homeless. 

is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following paid positions: 
Viewpoint Layout Staff Business Layout Staff 
For further information, contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471 or 283-4059. 


John P. O'Malley 

Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
llli.OII · lltDIAIIA 
Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 

MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD 


CLUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'IMIIey. 
--..-....-..---­


SPORTS BRIEFS 
Off-campus hockey has a game at 10:45 p.m. Monday. Call 271-8309 for more information. 
Equestrian Club will meet at 8:30 p.m. Monday in room 
222. of the library to organize lessons and horse shows. Call x2875 or x4215 for more information. 
Irish Insanity will meet at 7:30 p.m. tonight in 313 Saint Edward's Hall. 
Wallyball schedules are now available at the NVA office. Games are scheduled to start tonight. 
Sailing Club will meet at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday in 204 O'Shag. Plans for the 1990 Commodore's Ball will be discussed. 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 







Typists 
For information, please contact Erin O'Neill at 239-5303 or 283-4215 
(!lbe Newlork(!limes 
Subscnbe to The New York T1mes at a SOo/o discounted student rate. Papers will be delivered by 8:00 to dorms, faculty offices and mailboxes. 
spring term  
Monday-Friday  $17.25  
Monday-Saturday  $20.25  
Monday-Sunday  $50.25  
Sunday only  $30.00  

For more information call: Tom Mustillo 146 Keenan Hall 283-3258 

~ Tour includes all of the following for one low cost: ~ *Round trip AIRFARE: Chicago -London via British Airways. *Round trip TRANSFERS: Airport -Hotel *8 NIGHTS: The Royal National Hotel-all rooms with private bath & continental breakfast. *7 day London Regional Transport Visitor Travelcard. *Full Day Guided Tour: Stratford-on-Avon and Oxford *Experienced Guides to Assist with: theatre bookings, shopping, sightseeing 
** Total Cost per person: $975.00 it Call SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL, South Bend, for details ~ 232-7995 Deadline for deposit: January 29, 1990 


Monday, January 22, 1990 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Monday 
7 p.m. Presentation and reception for all MBA students int~rested in discovering career opportunities with Kidder Peabody. Upper lounge, University Club. Sponsored by Ca­reer and Placement Services. 
Tuesday 
12 p.m. Brown bag lunch to give members, new fellows, and friends of the Kellogg Institute an opportunity to meet. 131 Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Pot Roast 
Grilled Sole 
Olympian Sandwich 
Broccoli, Cheese & Rice Casserole 
The Notre Dame We are looking for: Student Players Actors Musicians announce the Spring 1990 production of Stage manager, Business manager UshersTHE Technical Crews: Costumes, Makeup & PropsFANTASTICKS Lighting, Set construction, Publicity And many others for this show and all future productions! Anyone interested should stop by the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune, and complete a short interest form by JJ&mll!l&IrJ 3®ftlhl. -._ -­ 

12 Little ones 14 Made a foray 19 Come out 21 Embarrassed 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
44 Morning moisture 45 More positive 46 Opponents 48 Rigid 49 Certain dives 52 Wed 55 Inquired concerning 57 Twice halved 58 Prophet 59 Rallying point 60 "The.:"'ay We 
61 Bridge call 62 Miscalculated 63 Lemon 
DOWN 
1 Copied 2Augur 3 Took under 
advisement 4 Places for 
valuables 5 In the center &Semi 7 Metallic comb. 
form 8 A king of Judea 9 Kind of offense 
10 Religious object 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


24 Tastes 25 Hitching post? 26 Mythical 
huntress 27 Bosom companion 
291ntenton Terpsichore
42 Rabbit hole 30 Hot under the 53 Beige
44 Oust a lawyercollar 54 Boy Scout's 45 Knightly title 
31 Lyricist "good" one Hammerstein 47 Speck 
56"-Love," 33 Circle section 48 Doomed 1939song 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
NO GiRLS LIKE M£ 
llf:CA(/5£ I'M UGLY I'M H10£0U5 AREN'T I? AR£N'T I? YOU'I?E MY BEST fRIEND, MAVRIC£, TE.LL ME. 
THE TROTH. 
\ 
wuo ARE Yru ~IODIN r., fHLA? YwRe. 100"/. 
STdD AND Yoll KNow 
rr! WHY, Gl~lS AR~ :1liST /NT/MIOAT€0 8 y ~ UYS AS G.OOD UJOr<tN!n 
,11.5 yoU! 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
OK 0\lPLICA.\E'S, L\STE~ \lP. AS LOI'lG-f...S ~0\l'RE f..lL \-\ERE A~l:l l \:00'\ KNOW HOW 1t> GET RIO Of '(OIJ, WE MIGHT 
/I.'S WELL COOI£RAIE . 
I~ 1\\E Rt'Sl' ($ US LA'i LOW, WE (At{ Tf>..K£. 1\JRNS GO\t-IG TO SCHOOL, ANI) NC> ONE WIU. '3E. TI-\E WISER! 
BILL WATTERSON 
SPEC\ ~IO.LL'i, Wln.\ FI'·.JE. 
DUPL\Cf>..\ES, WE CA\'.1 DI'IIOE 
UP n\E SCHOOL WEEK S:l 11-\ERE'S ON£. OVPL\CAT( toR Ef...C\-1 \)~'(. 

!'lOW 11-\f>..i STI\1. LEI\'It.s \J5 v-1 rrn T\-1£. OIJES\101'-\ Of' 'tl.\.P <:.£TS TI-lE 
BEl) Tai'>I\GI-\t. 
W£:.'\..L FIG\-\\ '(OU toR IT. 
ACROSS 
1 It's a start 4 Biblical matriarch 9 This is sometimes 
clenched 13 Poverty-stricken 15 "A miss is as 
good as-" 16 Little Sir of 
songdom 17 Novelist Ferber 18 Put two and two 
together 20 Wanted 22 Seconds 23 Fatal date for 
Caesar 
24 East or West follower 25 Did sums 27 Forbid 28 Marconi's 
interest 32 Committed perjury 
33 Esruary 34 Amorous starers 35 Feathers' partner 36Wrestle 
36 Tic---toe 39 Lacking vitality 41 Conducted 42 Alpha follower 43 Gaseous element 


-· 








Sports
page 16 Monday, January 22, 1990 
No. 13 Ti.....~rs outmuscle Irish in Superdome, 83-64 

Wayne Sims was one-third of LSU's frontline that dismantled Notre Dame on Saturday afteroon in the New Orleans Superdome. 
Bulls ' knock off Knicks and extend home winning streak to 15 
CHICAGO (API -Michael Jordan scored 42 points and the Chicago Bulls extended their franchise-record home winning streak to 15, holding off the New York Knicks 117­109 Sunday. 
The triumph was the third straight for the Bulls and, coupled with Detroit's 107-97 loss to the Los Angeles Lakers, put them back into first place in the Central Division of the Eastern Conference. It was the third straight defeat for the Knicks. their longest losing streak of the season. 
Trailing 82-60 late in the third quarter. the Knicks 
Lemieux earns MVP Award 
PITTSBURGH (API Mario Lemieux, rising to the occasion of the first NHL All-Star game in his home arena, scored a record-tying four goals -including three in the first period -as the Wales Conference walloped the Campbell Conference 12­7 on Sunday. 
With a sellout crowd of 16,236 at the Pittsburgh Civic Arena cheering on their local hero and millions more watching the NHL's first game on national television in a decade, the Penguins' superstar dominated the "**L's mid-season show as few before him. 
He scored just 21 seconds into the game and twice more before the first period ended in a record seven-goal splurge as the Wales Conference took a 7-2 lead. 
Lemieux added his fourth goal of the game early in the third period to tie the All­Star record of four set by Wayne Gretzky in 1983. 
"It was an unbelievable day," he said. "I had five or six good chances and I scored on four of them." 
The Pittsburgh star also picked up his All-Star-record third Most Valuable Player Award. He previouslylwon in 1985 and 1988. 
The expected battle be­tween Lemieux and Gretzky never materialized in this game, the highest-scoring of the NHL's 41 AU-Star en­
~ounters. 
Gretzky, the superstar cen­ter from Los Angeles, had won t'¥'> previous MVP awards, '1ncluding last year in the Campbell Conference's 9-5 win at Edmonton. But this time, it was Lemieux, largely regarded as rallied behind Rod Strickland and Johnny Newman to cut it to eight points several times in the fourth period. But Jordan hit six free throws and Horace Grant mixed in a three-point play to give the Bulls a 103-91 lead with five minutes left. 
Gerald Wilkins hit two straight 3-pointers and Ken Walker added a basket to chop the lead to 111-105 with 1:19 left. The Knicks came within four points before Jordan hit four free throws in the last 21 seconds. 
New York's Patrick Ewing was held to 16 points, 12 below his average, and sat out much Gretzky's heir apparent as the NHL's best player, who stole the show. 
Lemieux's contribution, plus two goals each from Buffalo's Pierre Turgeon and New Jersey's Kirk Muller, helped give the Wales their 11th victory in 14 games in the current conference series which began in 1975. 
Turgeon had both his goals in the first period. Muller scored once each in the second and third periods. 
Also scoring for the Wales Conference were Buffalo's Dave Andreychuk, Philadelphia's Rick Tocchet, Shane Corson of Montreal and Cam Neely of Boston. 
Gretzky's teammate, Luc Robitaille, had a pair of third-period goals for the Campbell Conference. 
of the third quarter with four fouls. He was scoreless in the first quarter and had only four points in the first half. Gerald Wilkins led the Knicks with 21 points. 
Jordan and Bill Cartwright gave the Bulls a 9-0 lead, and the Knicks didn't score from the field until Charles Oakley hit a hook shot to make it 11-5. Jordan hit three 3-pointers in the first quarter, which ended with the Bulls holding a 28-22 lead. 
After the Bulls opened a 53­38 lead, the Knicks went on an 8-4 run to cut it to 57-46 at the half. 

By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
NEW ORLEANS -The Notre Dame men's basketball team went into Saturday's game against Louisiana State with the best shooting percentage in the country. 
It left searching for answers to its poorest shooting outing of the season. 
The Irish shot a miserable 34 percent (20-of-59) in dropping an 87-64 decision to the 13th­ranked Tigers in the Superdome before 44,233 fans. The game was a benefit for homeless people across the United States. 
Poor shooting, coupled with the strong inside play of LSU's Shaquille O'Neal and Stanley Roberts, was the downfall for Notre Dame, which fell to 8-6. The Irish managed just 11-of­29 field goals in the first half and an even poorer 9-of-30 in the second stanza. 
Notre Dame's big scorers could not get in their shooting rhythm -Joe Fredrick was 6­of-14, Jamere Jackson 3-of-10, LaPhonso Ellis 5-of-12 and Monty Williams 3-of-11. They got the shots, but just couldn't get them to fall. 
"The big thing was that we got good shots, but just missed them," said Fredrick, who scored 16 points. "Those were probably the best shots I've gotten all year. I just missed so many that I usually make. They played well, but I think it was more or a case of us not playing well." 
Said Jackson, "We had the 
shots we wanted, but they just 
wouldn't fall. We're a better 
shooting team than that; that's 
what is disappointing. You 
can't shoot that poorly and ex­
pect to win." 
LSU did the majority of dam­age inside with its mammoth front line. Roberts -7 -foot and 288 pounds -scored 18 points and had nine rebounds, while O'Neal -7 -foot l-inch and 286 pounds -tallied 17 points and 13 boards. The duo. arguably the best combination in the country, combined to hit 15-of­21 field goals. 
Notre Dame held LSU's sophomore All-American Chris Jackson to a quiet 21 points, with just eight in the first half. Jackson realized the advantage inside and concentrated on getting the ball to O'Neal and Roberts. 
"lie always knows what he has to do in a game," Fredrick said. "There were times when he just kept throwing it in there. If it had been closer. I'm sure he would have tried to take over later in the game." 
The Tigers improved to 12-2 and showed several signs of being the Final J.'our team that many predicted early in the season. Losses to Kansas and Mississippi State may have made them hungrier. 
"They're a Final Four team," Notre Dame coach Digger 
see LSU I page 14 

AP Photo 
Chicago Bulls' Michael Jordan lit up the New York Knicks for 42 points as the Bulls downed the Knicks, 117-109 in Chicago. The Bulls took over first place in the Cetral Division with their victory . 

.., 





