---~--~--~-----------­


f/"'1[.21? 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND and SMC welcome new students 
ND freshmen class: 'most talented ever' 
By MONICA YANT 
Assistant News Editor 
Although the applicant pool for the class of 1994 was about 800 students fewer than last year, Director of Undergraduate Admissions Kevin Rooney called this year's freshmen "the most academically-talented class ever." 
The University received 9125 applications for the approxi­mately 1810 positions in the freshman class, Rooney said. 
The addition of such an aca­demically-talented freshman class makes the present student body "the strongest four classes we've ever had at the University," Rooney said. 
The average applicant ranked in the top 12 percent of his high school graduating class and scored approximately 1160 on the SAT. 
Figures were more impres­sive for those students enrolling in the University. according to Hooney. The average freshman graduated in the top 6 percent of his class and scored 1220 on the SAT. 
The male-to-female ratio re­mained 63 to37 percent, which is the third year for this figure. 
Minority enrollment consti­tutes 15 percent of the fresh­man class, Rooney said..This figure represents the second largest group of minorities in the University's history, trailing last year by only one percent. 
The University had previously set a goal of reaching 15 per­cent minority enrollment in each class by 1991, according to Rooney. He noted that the Admissions Office met this goal in both 1989 and 1990, a full year ahead of schedule. 
The class of 1994 also main­tained similar geographical representation as previous years. The two ·largest feeder areas were the Midwest and Northeast, with 41 and 30 per­cent respectively. The geo­graphic breakdown includes: 
•11 
percent from the South 


•Nine 
percent from the West 


•Seven percent from the Southwest 
•Two percent from abroad 

Children of alumni number 25 percent of the freshman class. Rooney explained that alumni applicants compete with each other for a certain number of spots each year. 
"It's easier to make it (be ac­cepted) as an alumni child," he said. 
The stagnation of the male­female ratio marks a four year increase in female enrollment to the 37 percent mark, Rooney said. The next question facing the University is, according to Rooney, "How much higher will 
See ND I page 6 

460 new students at Saint Mary's 
By CATHERINE KANE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's begins the 1990­1991 academic year with 460 new students, 40 of those being transfer students. 
The College received 1030 ap­plicants last spring, a slightly smaller number than the previ­ous year. Accordingly, the in­coming freshman class of 460 is also slightly smaller than in previous years, said Director of Admissions Mary Ann Rowan. 
The smaller class size guar­anteed housing to all of the in­coming students. Last year nine freshmen began the year in temporary housing. 
The new freshmen come from 37 states and 3 foreign coun­tries. 
Rowan said that the class is academically strong and con­tains "a significant number of leaders," many of whom were presidents and co-presidents in high school. 
Twenty-five percent of the in­coming freshmen were in the top 10 percent of their high school classes, and one-half were in the top 20 percent. This makes the current student body the strongest in years at Saint Mary's, she said. 
Most of the incoming fresh-
See SMC I page 6 


Construction at NO totals $60 million 


r-----------------------------------------------~ 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
• Orientation Weekend 1990 • NOTRE DAME 
Saturday 

1, 2, 3, 4 p.m. Campus tours departing from the Main Building 7:30p.m. Welcome ceremony, Joyce ACC 9 p.m. Freshmen meetings with hall rectors and staff 9 p.m. Parent Orientation, JACC 

Sunday 

8:30 a.m. Introduction to the Academic Program, JACC 9:30-10:30 a.m. Continental breakfast for parents, Monogram Room, JACC 
9:30 a.m. General guidance session for freshmen 11 a.m. Welcome mass, JACC 12-12:45 p.m. Picnic lunch, JACC 12:45-1:45 p.m. Introduction to student activities, JACC 9 p.m. Carnival Night and Dance, JACC 

SAINT MARY'S 
Saturday 

9 a.m. Freshman pre-registration briefing, Room 141, Regina Hall 9 a.m. Campus tours departing from outdoor information table 
10:30 a.m. Social survival session, Room 304, Haggar College Center 1-2:30 p.m. College open house, Angela Athletic Facility 2 p.m. Financial aid briefing, Little Theatre, Moreau Hall 3 p.m. Introduction to student services, O'Laughlin Auditorium 6 p.m. SMC Picnic, Library Green 

Sunday 

9:30 a.m. Opening of school liturgy, Angela Athletic Facility 11 a.m.-1 p.m. Brunch 4 p.m. Survival leader skits, Carroll Auditorium 
By JANICE O'LEARY 
Associate News Editor 
Bulldozers, cement trucks and jackhammers can be both seen and heard on campus this fall as more than $60 million in construction is being done at Notre Dame. 
The DeBartolo quad was started last spring, however nothing has been completed. 
The foundation and footings for the Edward DeBartolo Classroom Facility, the most expensive building to be con­structed by the University, have been begun west of the sta­dium, according to Richard Conklin, director of Public Rela­tions and Information. 
The building will include more than 30 tiered seating classrooms, 20 seminar rooms, 30 lecture halls, and a 450-seat auditorium. It is one of four buildings planned for the quad and is supported by a $33 mil­lion gift from alumnus Edward DeBartolo, said Conklin. 
The only work that is com­pleted on the quad is the under­ground facilities such as tele­phone and computer wiring, said Don Dedrick, director of Physical Plant. 
The Theodore Hesburgh Cen­ter for International Studies will also be a part of the new quad. 
Three buildings will house the Institute for International Peace Studies and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, at a cost of $10.3 million, Conklin said. 
Two other buildings are in the planning stage, according to Dedrick. They include the College of Business Administra­tion and the Marie DeBartolo Performing Arts center. 
The DeBartolo Classroom Facility is scheduled to be fin­ished in the summer of 1992, and the Hesburgh Center is scheduled for completion by Jan. 1, 1991, said Conklin. 
Extensive restoration on Sa­cred Heart church has been completed. The repairs took a total of six years and some of the stained glass windows are not quite finished, said Dedrick. 
New pews, a new slate roof, insulation and air-conditioning were added. Murals were also restored and humidity and temperature controls were in­stalled to prevent them from deteriorating. A new carillon is a further addition, he said. 
"Utilities have been installed for the new Fischer Graduate Housing Complex, located north of the O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences. The development, 
See Construction 1page 4 


Saturday, August 25, 1990
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Saturday, August 25. 
Unes show high temperatures. 80 
60 

FRONTS: COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Yesterday's high: 82 Yesterday's low: 59 

Partly sunny skies to­day, warmer tempera­tures and a 30 percent chance of afternoon thundershowers. Highs in the mid 80s. Mostly clear and warmer Saturday night. Lows in the upper 60s. Partly sunny and hot Sunday. Highs around 90. 
A senior's translation of 'Domerspeak' 
You've received enough mail from the University to keep the home fires burning for months while your parents eagerly await your return: lots of friendly, personal 
"Dear Member of the 
Alison Cocks Class of 1994" letters Editor-in-Chief 
welcoming you, the newest members of the Notre Dame family, to God's campus (you didn't know he funded the new quad?) and the home of the Fighting Irish. 
Congratulations. You've passed Phase I, the admissions process, which entitles you to receive these generous welcomes. 
Now you've graduated to Phase II: Translation. Over the next year you will 
Pressure 
® © ~ ~ m 0 ~ 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
learn to read between the lines. I'd now like to offer you a push in the right direction by sharing my own somewhat cynical, definitely tongue-in-cheek observations about life under the Dome: 
"Welcome to the Class of 1994" loosely translates to "We have selected you to pay astronomical sums of money for a diploma you will r~ceive in four years' time. In the meantime, feel free to hang out on our campus and enjoy yourself." 
"It is essential to think long and hard before selecting a major in order to choose the one that best suits your talents and interests.": Remember, you can only drop one or two classes before you fall behind and are forced to fork out for an ex­tra semester. 
"Alcohol is permissible behind closed doors.": We know, of course, that as up­standing Catholic citizens you will not touch a drop until the Lord or the Indiana state laws say you may. Don't disillusion us. 
"Class participation is strongly encour­aged.": Learn to fall asleep with your eyes open. Your final grade depends on it. 
"If you encounter difficulties with your roommate, don't worry, it is possible to make a switch.": If your father is a trustee or Edward Sorin, that is. 
"At the end of the year, students will be assessed for damages to their dorm rooms.": Screw the towel rack into the wall before room inspection, so you can tell your RA the holes were already there. 
"Late work is unacceptable.": Kill your dog and produce the corpse if you can't do the 20-page paper overnight. 
"Students are expected to report viola­tions of the Honor Code.": That really won't be necessary since all exams are still proctored. Tap your pen on your desk and whisper 'HONOR!' if you want to throw off the bozo next to you. 
"You should expect to study about 50 hours a week." (take two aspirin and read on): Divided by 5. 
"We are ND.": We're in this together. A healthy dose of cynicism never hurt anyone, but don't forget to have fun here also. 
The views expressed in the inside column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
--&.-=W~ ­--Ih---e--Obse.----~~er-
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 

(219)-239-7471  
Today's Staff:  
Graphics Mike Muldoon Clrculallon Kathleen O'Conner John O'Brian Alison Cocks Systems  News Janice O'Leary Kelley Tuthill Kev Ryan Monica Yant Catherine Kane Accent Alison Cocks Paige Smoron Colleen Cronin  AIJ Design Amy Eckert Kathleen O'Connor Sports Greg Guffey Ken Tysiac Production John O'Brian Joe Zandrozny  

Bernard Brenninkmeyer VIewpoint Michelle Dall 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved . 
Via Associat9d Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
SafeWalk, the student security escort program, will The Observer is seeking newswriters for the start up Sunday, August 26. Escorts will be available 1990-91 academic year. For more information, please from 8 p.m. until 2 a.m. seven days a week and will escort contact Kelley Tuthill or Janice O'Leary at 239-5303 or students anywhere on campus, including the parking lots. stop by The Observer office on the third floor of LaFor­For an escort, call 283-BLUE. tune Student Center. 
CAMPUS 
Father Theodore Hes­
Paul Griffiths, assistant professor of theology, re­burgh has been elected to the Har­ceived a $3500 summer stipend from the National Endow­vard University Board of Overseers. ment for the Humanities to support a two-month re­The first Catholic priest to serve on search project. Griffiths, who is a specialist in Indian the 30 member board, Hesburgh will Buddhist philosophical thought, is one of 212 professors be involved in advisory and evaluative in the country to receive a stipend this year. activities for Harvard in areas such as graduate schools, departments, and museums. The Overseers, who are Howard Adams, executive director of the Na­elected at large for six-year terms by degree holders of tional Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in the university, also give formal consent to major initia­Engineering and Science Inc. (GEM), has been appointed tives and to appointments. Hesburgh is president emeri­to the Science and Engineering Review Group (SEER) for tus of Notre Dame and holds an honorary degree from the Waste Policy Institute. SEER is responsible for helping Harvard, awarded in 1973. the Waste Policy Institute study major science, mathemat­
ics, and engineering education issues confronting the De­partment of Energy. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh received his Don Miller, executive chef of the Morris Inn, was 121st honorary degree May 27, increasing his hold on the named Chef of the Year by the South Bend chapter of the Guiness Book of World Records entry for most honorary American Culinary Federation. Miller joined the staff of degrees. Father Hesburgh, who retired in 1987 after 35 the Morris Inn in 1987 and is a 197 5 graduate of the years as president of Notre Dame, passed former United Culinary Institute of American, Hyde Park, N.Y. States President Herbert Hoover's 89 honorary degrees in 1982. 
Father Edmund Joyce, executive vice presi­The administrative computing division of dent emeritus of the University, was inducted into the In­
the University's Office of University Computing received a 
diana Academy June 11. The Academy promotes scientific, Hewlett-Packard 1990 Higher Education Technology artistic, literary, cultural and scholarly achievement as 
Award. Of five colleges to win the award, Notre Dame 
well as the philanthropic support of and service to higher was recognized as having best integrated organization education in Indiana. Joyce retired in 1987 after 35 years and technology. as the executive vice president. 
Veronica Blasquez has been named Galla As­sistant Professor of Biochemistry for the 1990-91 aca­Father Richard Mc­demic year. The appointment makes Blasquez one of the Cormick, S.J. John A. O'Brien Pro­University's first two wnamed" assistant professors. fessor of Christian Ethics, has been Blasquez has been called by Provost Timothy O'Meara elected a fellow of the American "one of the best young molecular biologists in the United Academy of arts and Sciences. The States," and "an excellent and enthusiastic lecturer." Academy's 2800 members includes 
scholars and national leaders in the 
Father Ernan McMullin, O'Hara professor of sciences and humanities. It conducts philosophy, was awarded an honorary doctor of litera­regular interdisciplinary studies of ture degree by the National University of Ireland (NUl) on contemporary public, social and intellectual issues. Mc­May 7. McMullin is an internationally known scholar in Cormick has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty the philosophy of science and studied physics at NUL He since 1986 and is the former Rose F. Kennedy Professor is the director of the History and Philosophy of Science of Christian Ethics at Georgetown University's Kennedy Program and of the Reilly Center for Science Technology Institute of Ethics. He is also a widely published and and Values at Notre Dame. award-v.inning author. 


• It brings out the bestin all of US:" 
United way 
........................__________________________________ 

Saturday, August 25, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Student Government starts new orientation program 
By KELLEY TUTHILL ken down into groups of ten. News Editor Eleven upperclassmen "facilitators" will serve as 
Student government is spon­group coordinators. 1\vo of the soring a new program called uppercJassmen will work as a Guidance and Orientation for team, said Melissa Smith, an­Long-term Development (GOLD) other program leader. that helps make the transition During the summer the stu­to Notre Dame a little easier for dents were notified that they freshmen. had been selected to participate 
One hundred freshmen have in the program, Ramsay said. been selected to take part in Eileen Kolman, dean of the this year's pilot program, said Freshman Year of Studies, 
Scott Boehnen, one of the or­called the program the result of ganizers of the program. Lynn "fine initiative on the part of Ramsay, another program or­upperclass students." She said ganizer, chose the students and she hopes the program is suc­worked to ensure that there cessful and continues to expand would be a heterogeneous in the future. group. The goals of the program are 
Ramsay said Freshman Year "to promote social interaction, of Studies sent her a list of to provide informal peer guid­freshmen that included the stu­ance, and to stimulate intellec­dents' race, gender and geo­tual growth among freshmen," graphical background. From according to a GOLD purpose that list Ramsay said she was statement. able to select a group of "typical "We are not trying to take Notre Dame students." 
See GOLD I page 5 

Subscribe to The Observer! By doing so, you'll keep in tune with all of the events and issues that shape your child's college experience. 
Send to: 

Name 
The Observer

Address 
P.O. BoxQGet all the news from under the dome home City State Zip Notre Dame, IN 46556 delivered for $25 a semester or $40 for a year. 


The students have been bro-

If you've set your sights on law school, there's no better l5AT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our L5AT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies 
and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical 
Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material 
is based on the "new" LSAT. And you can review lessons, and get 
additional help as needed in our TEST-N-TAP? lab, open days, 
evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. 
And watch the scales tip in your favo[ 
ESTANLEY H. KAPlAN 

£Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Glances 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
PHONE 219/272-4135RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
New kids on the block 
Freshmen Navy Reserve Officer Training Corps work up a sweat as they participate in tug o' war on the Stepan fields on Friday as part of their afternoon exercises. 
r------------------------------------------------------------,
CARPET REMHAHT SALE 
25°/o off with this coupon I
Mon. thru Sat. 10:00 to 5:30 


J.--7"'-........-~~~­

m :II
T 
!=' 
Mill Outlet 

CARPET &TILE DEPOT 
402 South Ironwood * Mishawaka, 1111 46544 * 259-5630 -==-.k:i t 
,~~---,.... a;;"'"' ~··--~~ '"" I
-~:.:l~'~'=-~·~ 1 
L--------------------------------------------~---------------~ 


Saturday, August 25, 1990
page 4 The Observer 


SMC leaders seek to bridge ND/SMC gap 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
Saint Mary's student govern­ment is committed to improving relations between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students dur­ing the 1990-91 academic year. 
Maggie Belin, vice president of academic affairs and college relations, said that the leaders of the student government also hope to sponsor "more major events" on campus, such as bringing bands to campus. 
Student government is spon­soring a picnic for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame freshmen women at Saint Mary's on Monday at 4 p.m. in front of Haggar College Center. 
"We are trying to promote friendship between the two groups of women before nega­tive stereotypes are created," said Belin. 
In addition, Belin said that student government is trying to build a feeling of community on the campus. "We are promoting Saint Mary's as a woman's col­lege." 
All are welcome to attend the first Board of Governance meeting is Wednesday, Sept. 5 at 6 p.m. in Room 306 of Haggar College Center. 
To learn more about student government and other campus clubs and organizations, freshmen are encouraged to at­tend Activities Night on Sept. 6. Belin said there will be more information about location and time available in the near future. 
Students are also welcome to stop by student government of­fices located on the third floor of Haggar College Center. Office hours are Monday and Tuesday, 2 to 4 p.m. and Thursday, 4 to 6p.m. 

The Coming of the Quad 
The Theodore Hesburgh Center for International Studies emerges on the new quad as contruction gets underway this fall. The center is scheduled to open January 1, 1991. 
Construction 
from page 1 
which will include a community center and 200 two-bedroom apartments, will cost about $12 million. Alumnus Charles Fischer is the principal donor," Conklin said. 
Juniper Road has been repaved, and sidewalks and curbs have been built. The road was closed between Douglas and Dorr Roads over the sum­mer, but is now open. It will close again next summer be­tween Dorr Road and Edison Avenue as road work resumes. Construction may continue_ to mid-September. 
Bad drainage was one of the reasons for the repairs, said Dedrick. The road was often treated as a country road and people would speed as a result, he said. He hopes that the con­struction will change that. 
The new home of the Army, Navy, Marine and Air Force ROTC detachments will be the Pasquerilla Center. It was com­pleted last spring and its dedi­cation is scheduled for this fall. Notre Dame Trustee Frank Pasquerilla underwrote the project, the largest privately fi­nanced ROTC building in the country, according to Conklin. 
The old ROTC building will now house University Security, the risk management office and the Environmental Health De­partment. The building was repainted and also contains classrooms and a "24-hour computer cluster," said Dedrick. 
Koons Rehearsal Hall, on the east side of campus, was also completed in the spring and is occupied by the Notre Dame Marching Band, the concert band, and other ensemble bands. A sheet music library, offices and storage areas are located in the building also, Conklin said. 
A new support services build­ing, located near the Notre Dame Credit Union, was sched­uled for completion Aug. 17. It will house custodial services, and grounds and general main­tenance. 
Holy Cross Hall and St. Michael's Laundry were demol­ished this summer. A new laun­dry facility is being constructed near the credit union and a parking lot will be built where the old laundry previously ex­isted, said Dedrick. 
"Dormitory renewal work centered on Dillon Hall this summer with new plumbing lines and fixtures installed and rooms and halls painted," said Conklin. 

-------­
.._ ---------­
r----------------------------------'1 
ALL REMNANTS I I

I Additional 10% off i! with College I.D. f 
I I
50%= 

------------------------------------~ 
Follow Douglas Road to: 
50760 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend. Indiana 46637 
[219) 272-4500 


Saturday, August 25, 1990 The Observer page 5 
scheduled to meet throughout the first semester, said

GOLD Transfers en·ter Notre Dame 
Boehnen. Facilitators are ex­pected to hold two peer group 

continued from page 3 
over the jobs of the RA's (resident assistants) or the peer advisors at the Freshman Year of Studies," said Boehnen. The facilitators will serve as mentors and are instructed to try not to "do too much," Smith said. 
Smith said that the program was started as a result of rec­ommendations of several stu­dent government reports to the board of trustees. According to a recent report on the Freshman Year of Studies, the present peer advising program is one of the weakest elements of the Freshman program. 
The report suggested that freshmen meet in small groups during the first semester with an upperclassman facilitator. 
The small peer groups are 
1R c.t.aal 
PANCAKE HOUSE 
meetings per month, sponsor at least one peer group activity per month and communicate individually with each group member at least once a month. 
Large events that include the entire group of freshmen are also planned. The decision to continue the program into the second semester will be made after evaluating the fall semester, said Smith. 
The first meeting of the GOLD program will take place on Monday, August 27 from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library. 
Topics to be covered during the GOLD sessions include racism, date rape, career op­tions, coresidentiality and the honor code. Smith said she hopes the peer groups will 
Serving ND/SMC Students i 
for 25 years I 
I 
I 
I 

By MONICA YANT 
Assistant News Editor 
Almost 200 transfer and re­admitted students will join the Notre Dame family this year, according to Kevin Rooney, di­rector of Undergraduate Ad­missions. 
Out of about 700 applicants, 144 were admitted as transfers. An additional 46 will return to NO as re-admitted students, he said. 
Re-admitted students are those who have left the Univer­sity for reasons such as work experiences or studying abroad on programs not sponsored by Notre Dame. 
Transfer students apply di­rectly to the college of their choice, Rooney said. The largest group. 85 students. was admitted into the College of Business Administration. 
The College of Arts and Let­ters received 62 transfers, while the College of Engineering gained 23 students. The College of Science added 20 students, he said. 
Providing on-campus housing for transfers students has been typically difficult in the past, Rooney said. "Some gained housing," he said, "but in most years they do not." 
Forty female transfer stu­dents were granted housing this year. according to Evelyn Reinebold, director of Student Residences. 
Male transfer students were a not as lucky. Forty-nine males who were placed on a waiting list last year were granted on­campus housing this year. This leaves 109 male transfers from both this year and last year on a combined waiting list, Reinebold said. 
Part of the male housing problem can be attributed to the closing of Holy Cross Hall, which formerly housed many 
ie******************t 
U.L 
31 North In aoldaad (ACI'OH l'l'oiD The HoUday IDD) 2.12.-7433 


iC  The Main Laundromat  iC  
~  1518 North Main Street  ~  
iC  Mishawaka  iC  
~  Houcs?3~c99-J?~-~d~o week  ~  
""" iC  (3Cuut, ?'ZieM4, e(UWC~ie~~"'i:lASE:::R§ ON~-Y 3E i  """ iC  
: _...,.  Mon.+ Fri.: FREE Tide in every wash Every Day : Drop-off-$.40 per pound  ~ iC  
"""  Thursday :Tanning-$3.00 per session  
: iC  Convenient pick-up and delivery to your dorm room. Dorm discounts available.  ~ iC  

******************* 
transfers, according to Susan 
Joyce, assistant director of Un­
dergraduate Admissions. 
Only six females remain on 
the waiting list, according to 
Reine bold. 

She explained that transfer 
students are placed in various 
dorms, "as openings occur." 
She said that in the coming 
days her office may receive 
word of students who have 
opted to live off-campus, which 
would allow transfers to be 
placed in those open dorm 
rooms. 

"As soon as we find empty 
beds, we'll call them [transfers 
on the waiting list] right away," 
she said. 

Transfer students are usually equally divided between sopho­mores and juniors, according ~o Rooney. However, there is rio quota system for male-female ratios, as in freshmen admissions, he said. 
The ratio of males to females in the transfer applicant pool generally numbers 3-to-2. Those admitted are "roughly the same 60-40 ratio," Rooney said. 
Although the grade require­ment for transfer applicants is a minimum of 3.0, "most typi­cally have about a 3.5," accord­ing to Rooney. 
Transfer orientation is fol­lowing the same format as last year, according to Craig Tiller, transfer orientation committee chairman. 
"We're putting more of an emphasis on the social picture," he said. The orientation has evolved from a luncheon and academic advising to four days of activities designed to help transfers interact with each other socially. 



r----------------------~
1 Oven Baked I I APPLE PANCAKES I 
1 $ Expires


WELCOME 1
I 1 OFF 10-31-90 I

Notre Dame 
1 per order I 

Saint Mary's ~-----------------------1 Incoming Freshmen I Oven Baked 1I 4 EGG JUMBO OMELETTES I 
I $1 
OFF Expires II per order 10-31-90 I

Open 7 Days AWeek at 6:00A.M. 
1----------------------~ 
Just North Of Campus 

;­ -HAMMES""'"'--·....,.---­ 
1  NDTREDAM£ Welcome Back  
I  Students, Faculty & Staff  
IiI  SCHOOL SUPPLIES HEADQUARTERS  
i  

 -+ -t 3M SCOTCH SCOTCH SCOTCH MOUNTING WALLSAVER REMOVABLE SQUARES POSTER MOUNTING SQUARES89¢ TAPE $1.95 99¢ J·············································••\ : SPECIAL HOURS: 9-7 PM AUG. 28 & 29 :•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  



Saturday, August 25, 1990
page 6 The Observer 
Pasin delivers lecture series 
By MONICA YANT 
Assistant News Editor 
In what is often a rarity in modern politics, Student Body President Rob Pasin says he and Vice President Fred Tombar will fulfill their cam­paign promise of a corporate­sponsored lecture series for the 1990-91 school year. 
The lecture series will include prominent national figures, in­cluding: 
•William 
Webster, director of the CIA; 

•Leslie 
Stahl, CBS White House correspondent; 

•Bruce 
Babbitt, former gov­ernor of Arizona and Student Body President at Notre Dame in 1960. 


"We are very happy about ful­filling our campaign promise of a lecture series," Pasin said. 
He explained that finding the corporate funding was largely 

ND 
from page 1 
we go for what we call 'equal access' for women?'" 
He cites housing as a critical issue with increasing female enrollment. 
Rooney said that academic reputation and the Catholic tradition as the two strongest 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
reasons for applying, and ulti­mately, choosing to attend the 
SMC 
from page 1 
men were involved in sports, extracurricular activities, and community service in high school. They worked through their parishes and social con­cerns agencies with many dif­ferent kinds of people in their hometowns, she said 
This reflects the growing 
concern for social issues at 
Saint Mary's in recent years. 
Rowan said she was reflecting 
with the staff that the new stu­
dents are "very committed." 
"Every class takes on a per­
sonality, and I like them all," 
she said. 
e 
United Way 
It bring5 out the best in all of us.­

OPPORTUNITY KNOCKS ON THESE
'lir1MPoRTED' 
&DOMESTI~ 

DOORS I'IRST.
~lriEE~e:s 

Why? Because Army ROTC helps you develop 
ttDELI MEAT~ 

management and leadership skills. Builds your 
& PATES 

self-confidence. And makes you a desirable candidate in the job market. 
•TE~It=l<:... 

There's no obligation until your junior year, 
'PARTY PlA.TT"ER$ 

but stick with it and you'll have what it takes to
FoR SUMMER P 

succeed-in college and in life. 
.. --· 

NEW! WEEKEND HOuR'$: :S~T. r()·5·SUN.I2:-5 
MARKET 

ARMY ROTC
MARIGOLD 

TIE SMARTEST COLLEGE 
COURSE YOU CD TW. 


F-R-E-D Tombar 

due to the assistance of William Sexton, vice president of Uni­versity Relations. 
The goal of the lecture series is, "to spark discussion and de­bate about important issues of the day," according to Pasin. 
Pasin also revealed "new and improved communication be­tween student government and the student body" as another of his and student government's plans for the year. 
A phone line to be dubbed "the FRED line," after Tombar, will serve as a sounding board for student suggestions, Pasin said. 
Students who dial F-R-E-D will hear a recorded message and be able to leave a message about their complaints or con­cerns about issues that student government should be aware of, he said. 
Pasin said that the phone line, as well as a student govern­ment newsletter to be sent to all students and an open forum in each dorm with him and Tombar will be, "an opportunity for us to be accountable for what we promised." 
He also said that the im­proved methods of communica­tion will make student govern­ment more visible to the stu­dent body. 
University. Catholic has wavered between 
According to Rooney, Notre 85 and 88 percent. Dame holds its own academi­Rooney attributed the de­cally with the top schools in the crease in applicants to a 5-year country. "By any standard, it's national trend in which the safe to say we're someplace in number of high school gradu­the top 25," he said. ates is declining, and said he 
In recent years, the percent· doesn't consider the drop age of freshmen who are "anything special." 
ND wins university relations programming award 


cations, including electronic media, publishing and design. 
The medal is the sixth for general program excellence won by Notre Dame's Uni­versity Relations Division in ten years. The division re­ceived gold medals in 1988 and 1989, bronze awards in 1980 and 1983, and a silver medal in 1982. The only school with a better record is Brown University. 
Special to the Observer 
For the third year in a row, the University of Notre Dame has received a top award for University Relations programming in national college and university competition. 
The University received a bronze medal for general program excellence in public and alumni relations, finan­cial support, and communi· 
Do you have what it takes to reach over 12,000 people daily? 
If so, we want YOU! 
The Observer is looking for a few good people to work as writers, photographers, ad designers and representatives, as well as numerous other positions. If you're interested in working for the number one source of information for NotreDame and Saint Mary's, come visit our office on the 3rd Floor of LaFortune, call us at 239-5303, or watch our pages for more information on our exciting employment opportunities. 
Saturday, August 25, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
Circus to perform at University 
By KEVALEEN RYAN News Writer 
The Royal Lichtenstein Quar­ter Ring Circus, scheduled to perform Tuesday, August 28, from noon to 1 p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. is more than just a side show. It's a circus with a twist of faith. 
This "world's smallest com­plete circus" features only six members who are responsible for the usual ensemble juggling, acrobats, magic and mimes; who preform with exotic ani­mals; but who also deliver a message. 
Surprisingly, the menagerie is headed up by ringmaster and founder Father Nick Weber, a Jesuit priest who, along with his comic performances, incor­porates comments on contem­porary issues and messages of faith. 
Mary Ann Roemer, coordina­tor for the Senior/Alumni pro­gram in the Center for Social Concerns, said that Weber would also address topics rele­vant to the Notre Dame campus life. 
"Not only does he swallow fire, but he brings in a sophisti­cated repertoire ... bringing out the child in all of us, but still engaging us in the intellectual process," said Roemer. 
A prior acquaintance between Roemer and Weber when he was a seminarian in Las Gatos, Calif., prompted the circus's initial debut at Notre Dame in 1984. Since then, the produc­tion has come for three return performances, all received fa­vorably. 
Their popularity -the circus is involved in over 3500 per­formances nation-wide every year and has been featured in People magazine -stems from Weber's personal touch and the way he deals especially with is­sues that relate to his current audience, rather than just gen­eralities, said Roemer. 

According to her, "He [Weber] was always interested in drama . . . in this way he has accomplished an integration of his love of art and his ministry." 
In one of his previous visits Weber told The Observer that, "To be a priest, you don't have to be a clown. To be a clown, you don't have to be a priest. But to be me, you have to be both priest and clown." 
Because surprise is essential to the program, a detailed list of the animals used is never re­leased. However, in recent years, the act has included ev­erything from a miniature stal­lion to bears to spider monkeys. 
Participants in the upcoming production incorporate Joe Re­ichlin, veteran wire dancer; Darren Peterson, juggler and unicyclist; Bill Tomber, comic equilibrist; Eric Mason, dare­devil of the aerial bar, and foot juggler James Myers. 
The circus is sponsored by the CSC, Campus Ministry and Student Government. 

Back to School sale: up to70% oil! 

Come to the Fall Mall at the Stepan Center and furnish your dorm room or apartment the smart way. Save up to 70% on our huge Back to School selection of discontinued and rental return merchandise. 
1
iifAr '"m 1 
iOVfiUJS '"m 111 


~HAIRI ~~~
From 
Assorted styles 

flOIRI DflllAMPI From 111 
CORT 
Furniture Rental Resale Cente[ See us at the Fall Mall in Stepan Center! Sunday Aug. 26, 12 noon-6 pm Monday Aug. 27, 10 am-6 pm MasterCard /VISA/Discover 
The [)jjJ outlet lOr tumilllre. 

I
.I 
Father Nick Weber clowns it up at the all-new 1990-91 edition of the Royal Lichtenstein Circus coming to Notre Dame this Tuesday. 
STEAKS ~e·
PRIME RIB •.-.. 100 CENTER. MISHAWAKA
,.......,....,................... 
SEAFOOD s: _.-....y.._.
219--259-9925 
Hor~J.~9.Rq!fY ,~tQ~Jena 

TRAIL RIDES 
Over 500 acres of 219-778-4625
*­meadows, ponds, OPEN All YEAR ROUND woods. , 2525 E. 850 N. LA PORTE, IN 


The Observer Saturday, August 25, 1990
page 8 
Wetherbee to be awarded for exemplary service 
Special to the Observer 
Commander James Wetherbee, U.S.N., American astronaut and Notre Dame's first graduate to make a space flight, will receive the Rev. William Corby, C.S.C. Award from the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Wetherbee, a 1974 Notre Dame graduate who majored in aerospace engineering, was pi­lot of the space shuttle Columbia during its mission January 9-20 of this year. Among Wetherbee's personal effects during the mission was Dame's third and sixth presi­the University's Laetare Medal dent., Father Corby was among of 1925. The University's high­the seven priests from Notre est honor and the most presti­Dame to serve the Union Army gious award given to Catholic as chaplains during the Civil Americans, the Laetare Medal War. He is particularly remem­was presented that year to Al­bered for his ministry among bert F. Zahm, a professor of Catholic Union soldiers during mathematics and a pioneer of the battle of Gettysburg, where aeronautical study. he imparted a general absolu­
The Corby Award is given an­tion to members of New York's 
nually by the Alumni Associa­Irish Brigade. tion to a graduate who has Wetherbee will receive the done exemplary service in the Corby Award during halftime 
nation's armed forces. It ceremonies of the Notre Dame memorializes a Holy Cross vs. Air Force football game Oc­priest who served as Notre tober 13. 
,.. 
.t: . 
...------:--..:_ 
/\/IC5". 
....... ..c."J"-._..,;,_...~....:·-~1~:­
~/ 
w 
WELCOME BACK SPECIAL 
Saturday and Sunday 
7" Sandwich $2.00 (2 or more for delivery) 
Catholics vs. Convicts III T-shirts "Take No Prisoners" 
FREE DELIVERY 271-8113 113 Dixie Way North (Business 31-Roseland) 

~~~~~~-~~ ~ ~ 
~ 4-~:rA~-s-BOUNTIFUL BASKETS ..Baskets of Gifts for All Occasions~ 
Students-Send Mom and Dad gifts for their ) 
Birthday-Anniversary-Mothers and Fathers : day ) Parents-unique fun items for yo~r students l 
birthday ) Food Packages Always Desired & c Appreciated 
2 dozen homemade cookies, 2 gigantic muffins, 4 fresh fruit, 3 pkgs. crackers and (cheese, 3 pkgs corn chips or cheese balls, 2 
pkgs sesame & nut mix, 2 pkgs gum, 2  ~  
)  candy bars, game pencil  
)  $19.00  
may call and personalize  
1-800-373-9716 or S. Bend 272-9776  ~  
(  Delivered free  (  

For a special occasion-add a stuffed animal ( or frame-$5.00 1 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Marching to victory 

Irish Guardsmen lead the Notre Dame Marching Band on Friday during afternoon tryouts. 
SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE! 

~ 

• 
Find complete financial news from the Midwest's biggest staff. 

• 
Read Puli~zer Prize-winning columnists. 

• 
Enjoy comics, features, movie and music reviews and 


more! "Daily," "Daily and Sunday" and "Sunday Only" subscriptions are available. Prices range from just $1.00 to only $2.1 0 per week for convenient delivery. Credit 
card~:~~e;;~L-FREE today and SAVE~ 


Saturday, August 25, 1990 page 9
The Observer 

Holy Cross appoints acting president 

Special to The Observer 
The Board of Trustees of Holy Cross College and the Provincial Superiors of the Midwest and South-West Provinces of the Brothers of Holy Cross have appointed Brother Raphael Wilson as acting president. 
Wilson is a biomedical re­search scientist whose career in higher education includes a va­riety of positions as researcher, teacher, and administrator. He holds a doctorate in biomedical science from the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galve­ston and a master's degree in psychology from the University of Texas in Austin. 
He is known for his pioneer­ing work in the applications of germ-free science and technol­ogy. Wilson played a significant role as scientific director of the 
Brother Raphael Wilson 
case of "David, the Boy in the Bubble." 
Notre Dame is one of the many universities at which Wil­son has held positions. The others include St. Edward's University, University of Ulm in Germany, Baylor College of Medicine, University of Portland (where he served as president), University of San Francisco, and King's College. 
Wilson succeeds Brother David Naples as president of the college. During Naples' tenure at Holy Cross College there has been an increase in enrollment and the college has been recommended for contin­ued accreditation with the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. 
The Board of Trustees of Holy Cross College have also elected Ruth Kelly, President Emeritus of the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, as chair of the Board of Trustees. 
Kelly has served on the Board of Trustees since its establish­ment in 1987 as vice-chair. Pre­viously, she served on the Board of Advisors for the Col­lege. 
Who needs our furniture? 
Study fiends, Couch Potatoes, Party Animals•••• 
~~~ ~~~~· 
ND/5M«;;; BACK TO 5CHOOL 
FURNITURE SALE 
• 

~ ~ Chairs $15-35 ~ 
~~ 6c*''0 Loveseats $35-75 ~~~'"~ ~(~
"~"~ Sofas $50-90 ~~ A-o~ MONDAY AUGUST 27TH 9:00-AM-7:00 PM TUESDAY AUGUST 28TH 9:00AM-7:00 PM 
Goodwill Plaza Parking Lot
[VISA] 
921 N. Eddy Street 

• 

• 
1 minutes South of Campus (Take Juniper South) Checks accepted with student I.D. Delivery Service Available 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

Back-breaking job 
Mr. Ralph Cocci and his son Tom, left, and Mike Dougherty of St. Edward's Hall construct a loft for their dorm room. 
Enjoy a festival of handmade gifts and country decor. potpourri and candles. Our unique co-op concept features over 70 area craftspeople as well as crafts 
from all over the country· We're filled to the rafters Ql\ 259-9888 with fr~sh tdeas.. .for you' ~ ~ 
Open Mon. · Sat. 10 -9. Sun. 1 2 -5 :C 
ij 100 Center. U.S. 33. Mishawaka. IN)'~."9~•~"9m"9n~~~9'1t?~•~•q•~ 
j I I ,I,.I I I 
I I 
~ 
f 
Welcome Class of •94
NOTRE DAME 
Picture This! 
GOLF SHOP 
SHIRTS SWEATERS UMBRELLAS BALLS JACKETS HEADWEAR SLACKS 

Stay Toned! 
Saturday, August 25, .1990 
page 10 The Observer 
This 
Back to School 
Special Will Grow on You. 
Come and explore all our floral at incredible prices. You can always count on great savings each week at County 
Market and this week the savings are bound to grow on you. 
10 INCH SHOW PLANTS 

99 
each 


OPEN 24 HOURS 
lW:C~S 
5901 N. GRAPE RD. 

MISHAWAKA, IN ... COMPARE THE BOTTOM LINE 

Viewpoint
Saturday, August 25, 1990 page 11 
I 

! 

I I 
I 
~ 
Malloy Hickey greets SMC sesquicentennial class, welcomes 
challenges students to develop their talents 
Class of '94 
Dear Class of1994: for nearly 150 years. As a in the extracurricular activities the goals you set for the years Welcome to Saint Mary's! Catholic institution, the College that are offered, and commit ahead.
Dear Notre Dame Students: 
While all of the students of is committed to seeing each yourself to developing yourI am happy to welcome you to 
Saint Mary's College are student grow academically, talents and growing as a Wzlliam A. HickeyNotre Dame on behalf of the 
important, the class of 1994 is spiritually and culturally. The human being. Your four years Presidentfaculty, staff and administration special because it is the many clubs and organizations at Saint Mary's will become a Saint Mary's College of the University. You are now 
sesquicentennial class. available on the campus were memory before you know it. August 27. 1990
part of the rich heritage and 
Graduation ceremonies for the created by the diversity of our Spend them wisely, for they will tradition of Notre Dame. I am Class of 1994 will students. There are varsity and provide the foundation for all of sure that each of you will find a commemorate the founding of intramural sports, the campus
way to make a distinctive 
the College in 1844 and mark newspaper, yearbook andcontribution to the life of the the conclusion of a century and literary magazine; student 
Pasin, Tombar urge 
campus as we approach the 
a half of higher education for government offerscelebration of our 
women at Saint Mary's. These opportunities to represent yoursesquicentennial. 
next four years will be fellow students and is a forum rewarding for each member of for effecting change. 
incoming students to
You have already displayed 
the class. and I encourage each Participation in these activitiesduring the course of your high of you to reap all the benefits will help you experienceschool career many outstanding available by immersing yourself campus life. Through these 
get involved at ND
attributes. All of you were 
in the life of the campus -in experiences, you will develop
scholars. but in addition many of you were leaders of your the classroom and in friendships that you will Dear Editor: you will soon learn, the halls
extracurricular activities. treasure for a lifetime.
student bodies in many student­Welcome Class of 1994! are the center of life on
The liberal arts education you 
oriented activities. I hope that Having been in your shoes campus. Each dorm has a 
you continue this involvement will receive at Saint Mary's will For several months, you have three years ago, we understand variety of opportunities for yield a solid foundation for life, anticipated your first year of 
the anxiety and excitement that involvement. There is also the
at Notre Dame. I also 
but the strength of this college. Now that you have
encourage you to consider you are experiencing. You may Freshman Class Council, which participation in many of the be nervous now, but before you is the governing body of your
foundation will be only as arrived, you may find that the sound as your commitment to transition from home to campus 
social service projects available know !t, you will be a full class. Talk to your hall
learn. You will need to probe, is not as simple.. as you
on the campus. member of the Notre Dame president about it as soon as 
question, search and grow imagined it would be. I assure community. The transition that possible.
during your years at Saint you that you are not alone. All
There are many people who you are undergoing may be a We hope you enjoy the events
Mary's. Take advantage of the of us at Saint Mary's want to
will be happy to be of difficult one, but don't worry, that Student Government has
knowledge that is here waiting help you adjust to the changes
assistance to you along the way. you'll make it! planned for you through the 
to be discovered. Take time to that are taking place in your
Take advantage of their If there are any words of Orientation Committee. We also 
get to know your professors; life. Counselors, faculty,
presence and allow them to wisdom that we can offer you, hope that these events will
they care about you, and they administrators, and Sisters of
become part of your extended they are "GET INVOLVED!" make your transition into Notre 
want to participate in your the Congregation of the Holy
community. May the coming There are over 150 clubs and Dame a smooth and easy one. 
education. If you are willing Cross are here to help you
year and all those that follow be organizations here on campus, Good luck and enjoy yourself! 
and receptive, they will guide succeed and to make you feel at and they are all listed in thea time of real growth in the life you through classes and help home. All you need to do is seek 
of the mind and in the ways of beginning of the phone book. Rob Pasin 
you see how your course work us out.
God. The non-varsity athletics Student Body President 
applies to the real world. Wonderful opportunities 
program is the largest in the Fred Tombar III 
Saint Mary's has been await. As you begin your first
Cordially. country, offering everything Student Body \lice President 
dedicated to helping students year at Saint Mary's, I challenge 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. from aerobics to kayaking. As August 23, 1990 
develop their individual talents you to get involved. Participate
President University ofNotre Dame 

Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your
August 27. 1990 

thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
DOONESBURY 
{QHATLJ/'E 

A 708Aa0 FIAO<? AC!lJALL.'i 
(F IAXJRJ<. 

NOKJ/)f)ING~ HOW um-A 8/T, /5 PH!t,IN, IXJe5 ~ HANlJ/.13 nv'? AN'ttiJ4Yr 7HCIUHCUMM-(}f3ft3N5!V& CHANTOF /JfiA7H Aea.JTn:/ 7HING? 
GARY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IF YOU TJCJ(J.l; 
US, [)() IU8 NOT LAU6Hr IF'!Q/PRICK usI {)() 
lAIC NOT 

'The distance is nothing; it is only the first step that is difficult.' 
Marquise Du Deffand (1697-1780) 
Saturday, August 25, 1990 


Accent 
pages 12-13 
LEGEND 
0 University Park Mall 0 Indian Ridge Shopping Center 0 Town and Country Shopping Centre e K-Mart 0 Target 0 Do-lt Center 0 Goodwill 0 Martin's Supermarket 0 Kroger's C9 Ziker's CD Touch of Class e The Emporium G) The Old Spaghetti Works CD Steak and Ale G The Olive Garden 0 Jeremiah Sweeney's 8 Macri's Deli G) Noble Roman's Pizza G) Barnaby's Pizza 
A newcomer's guide to the hottest spots that 'The Bend' has to offer 

COLLEEN CRONIN accent editor 

Why would you want a guide to South Bend? By now you are probably searching for a mall (to buy all the things you forgot) and craving a pizza (the dining hall food does not get much better). If you can scam a car from an upperclassman you are in business because South Bend actually does have these things. Granted, it isn't a big city or a college town, but it isn't a ghost town, either. This· is not an all-encompassing list but it will give you a good start. 
MALLS 
University Park Mall (1) is the biggest and the best in the area. It is located on Grape Hoad, near SR 23. It is home to L.S. Ayres, Hudson's, Sears, and J.C. Penney, plus the typical array of little mall stores. 
There are a few fairly decent strip malls in the area, too: 
•Indian 
Hidge Shopping Center (2) on Grape Road east of UP Mall: there is a Phar-Mor, a T J Maxx and a Venture 

•Town 
and Country Shopping Centre (3) on McKinley Road 


OTHER STORES 
If you are looking for that margarita blender, the screws to finish the loft, or some chocolate chip cookie fiXings, have no fear. 
•K-Mart 
(4) on McKinley (east of Town and Country) 

•Target 
(5) on McKinley (west of Town and Country) 

•Do-It 
Center (6) on SR 23 

•Goodwill 
(7) on Eddy Street at the corner of SR 23 

•Martin's 
Supermarket (8) at the corner of SR 23 and Ironwood 

•Kroger's 
(9) on SR 23 in the University Commons, across from UP Mall 


DRY CLEANERS 
Once the first SYR rolls around many of you will be screaming for a dry cleaners. ROTC folks will need it for those all-important inspections, too. 
•Ziker's 
(10) at the corner ofSR 23 and Ironwood 

•Touch 
of Class (11) on SR 23 in the University Commons 


RESTAURANTS 
If mom and dad come out for a football game and offer to take you and your roommate out to dinner there are some nice places at which to spend their money. 
•The Emporium (12) on Niles Avenue. Located on the St. Joseph River, the Emporium offers patrons beautiful views and an extensive menu. Reservartions are recommended. 
•The Spaghetti Works (13) on Niles Avenue can satisfy 
pasta cravings with its wide selection of pastas and sauces. 
•Steak 
& Ale (14) on US31. Fans of meat and potatoes will be happy here, and will also enjoy the English pub atmosphere. 

•The 
Olive Garden (15) on Grape across from UP Mall is particularly famous for its complimentary breadsticks as well as its selection of Italian dishes. 

•Jeremiah 
Sweeney's (16) right next to the Olive Garden diverse menu. Particularly noteworthy are the stir-fried dishes. Jeremiah Sweeney's also serves a superb Sunday brunch, buffet style, featuring made-to­order omelettes, waffles, a salad bar and a varietv of breakfast and lunch dishes. • 


If you are footing the bill, though, you may want something a little less expensive. 
•Macri's 
Deli (17) on Grape Road, behind The Olive Garden and Jeremiah Sweeney's is popular among the students for its casual atmosphere. The menu consists of delicatessen-style sandwiches served in baskets. 

•Wendy's, 
McDonald's, Burger King and Arby's all on us 31 

•Rax 
on US 31 is a fast-food sandwich shop featuring an all-you-can-eat smorgass board that won't break the student's wallet. 

•Pizza 
Hut on US 31 will also deliver to students' dormitories. 

•Noble 
Roman's Pizza on SR 23 (18) at the intersection of Grape 

•Barnaby's 
Pizza (19) at the corner of Edison and Grape 


MOVIE THEATRES 
Most of the time you will need to know only UP East and UP West. East is off of Grape Road, behind the little strip mall. West is in UP Mall. The Forum Theatre is north on US 31. 
BEACHES 
There may be a few warm weekends left and what better way to spend them than catching some rays. Many beaches are easily accessible off of Rt. 12, including the Indiana Dunes and some nice ones just across the Michigan border, and they are only about an hour away. Take US 31 into South Bend and take a right on US 20 (Lincoln Way West) and keep on driving. Eventually you will get to Rt. 12. Head south for the Dunes or north into Michigan. Keep in mind that the Indiana Dunes has seriously cracked down on beach­goers with alcohol. 
Don't fret about not knowing your way around, you are not alone. Some seniors still have no clue how to find the mall. 
The important facts 
of freshman life 
PAIGE SMORON assistant accent editor 
Freshman Orientation Week 
is a dizzying whirlwind of wild 
activities, often designed to give 
you maximum exposure to the 
opposite sex. This is a critical 
time for your future soxial life, 
and you only have one chance 
to get it right. Fresh out of 
prep school, you may not yet 
understand the nuances of 
making the proper first impres­
sion at Notre Dame. 
We're here to help. 

YOUR FIRST MIXER 
You're on the way to the Graffiti Party, and you're ready for some action. Be sure to travel in twos (of the same gender, of course). Randomly approach another pair and be­gin earnestly, "Hi! I'm blah­blah-blah and this is my rom­mate blank." If you're feeling confident, don't hesitate to substitute your own names in place of blah-blah-blah and blank. If not, anonymity could be a comfort to you --and a mystery to your peers. 
You'll probably want to start the conversation with an off­hand comment about how many Ivy League schools you turned down, and follow it up with your SAT scores and any high school captaincies. Try to look interested when they offer simi­lar information. 
Smile at your new friends warmly, even though you'll probably never see them again. 
YOUR FIRST FOOTBALL 
GAME 

Even if you're dying to wear that one-of-a-kind, hand-knit­ted-by-a-dying-woman-in-Ire­land sweater, hold back. Odds are that you'll end up in the stands next to the guy who painted his entire body green and shaved his head to look like the Dome. (He sweats, too.) 
Some advice to the women: put on those freshman fifteen pounds fast. There is a bizarre 
ritual that takes place at foot­
ball games, wherein overzeal­
ous fans spontaneously lift a 
female of the lighter variety 
over their heads and pass her 
up the bleachers. It's like when 
people bounce beach balls 
around at concerts --but dif­
ferent. 

YOUR FIRST SYR 
You'll always remember your first SYR (unless you're a real mess), so picking your first SYR date is crucial. Avoid ask­ing anyone you actually know (they might think you like them); instead. reach for your handy Freshman Year Bible-­no, NOT "DuLac~--the Dog­book. Pick out the person most physically, superficially attrac­tive to you, and start dialing (like everyone else). 
If you consider yourself to be a bit more sensitive than that, you should also check out the "interests~ each freshman lists. Girls, be sure to choose a man with a macho pastime like spearfishing or lumberjacking. Boys, go for anyone into jello sculpture. 
SYR attire is very simple: requisite navy blazers for the men, and pretty much anything for the women (no one will no­tice anyway). 
Flowers are such a thoughtful touch, but those lines at Irish Gardens can get lengthy on weekends. An alternative would be to stop at Kroeger's and pick up something on special; or, take advantage of our pic­turesque campus plantings. You'll be doing yourself a fa­vor, and your date will admire you for your frugality. 
HINT: Forgetting your date's name is a major SYR faux pas. Try writing it in indelible ink on the flip side of your tie or slip, and earn big points. 
YOUR FIRST YEAR 
You're on your own. 
The Observer/Alison Cocks 

page 14 The Observer Saturday, August 25, 1990 

Notre Dame Sports Information 

Raghib Ismail hopes to become Notre Dame's eighth Heisman trophy winner this fall. 
Gault propels Raiders to win 
CHICAGO (AP) -Willie Gault got another chance. This time he made good. 
On the first play from scrim­mage, quarterback Jay Schroeder threw what would have been a 55-yard touchdown pass. But Gault, having outrun everybody, dropped the pass. 
But the two later connected on a 26-yard touchdown pass, and Steve Smith ran five yards for another touchdown Friday night to lead the Los Angeles Raiders to a 20-3 preseason victory over the Chicago Bears. 
"I thought I had it, but it started going away from me," said Gault. "Those things hap­pen, but I'm glad it happened in preseason, and I'm glad coach (Art Shell) gave me another chance." 
Gault said his second chance which resulted in the touch­down was "a cross pattern." 
"It helped me, and it helped the team to give us a bigger lead," he said. 
After Gault dropped the pass, Shell said, he told Gault: "Forget it. You'll get it back." 

But Shell was more enthused about the Raider defense that limited the Bears to 185 yards with the first unit getting four sacks in the first half, three by Aaron Wallace and the other by Greg Townsend. 
"The defense was fantastic. It was an outstanding perfor­mance," said Shell. 
Bears coach Mike Ditka had to agree. 
"They sure put the heat on us." Ditka said. "We got beat man-to-man. Greg Townsend is a big pass rusher. Wallace ap­pears to be a big pass rusher. You take steps forward; you take steps backward. We didn't play very well tonight. They did. You have to give them credit." 
Jeff Jaeger kicked field goals of 46 and 31 yards as the Raiders went to 3-1 and the Bears dropped to 3-1. 
Wallace led the Raider de­fense in the first half with three of the four sacks of starting quarterback Mike Tomczak. 
Jaeger's 46-yard field goal in the first quarter put the Raiders ahead, but the Bears tied the score on a 41-yard field goal by Kevin Butler early in the second quarter. 
With 1:33 left in the half, Schroeder connected on his 26­yard touchdown pass to Gault, who on the first play from scrimmage had dropped what would have been a 55-yard touchdown pass from Schroeder. 
Quarterback Vince Evans, who at age 35 is trying to win the backup job with the Raiders, directed a 71-yard drive in the second half that ended with Jaeger's 31-yard field goal. 
Early in the fourth quarter, Jim Harbaugh hit James Coley with a 21-yard pass, but Coley fumbled and Darin Jordan re­covered on the Chicago 37. A 14-yard pass from Evans to Sam Graddy helped set up Smith's 5-yard touchdown run off right tackle. 

Fisk's double is trouble for Angels; Sox win 5-2 
CHICAGO (AP) -Carlton Fisk isn't one to pass up a good thing. 
Fisk hit his second three-run double in three days as the Chicago White Sox kept pace with Oakland by defeating the California Angels 5-2 Friday night. The victory kept the White Sox five games behind the Athletics in the race for the American League West title. Oakland beat the Detroit Tigers 6-4. 
"Oakland is still running, they haven't slowed down to a trot yet," Fisk said. "We're hoping to say in the hunt." 
The Angels jumped to a 2-0 lead in the third on an RBI sin­gle by Chili Davis and an run­scoring double by Dave Winfield. 
Chicago rallied in the bottom of the inning against Angels starter Jim Abbott, loading the bases on singles by Phil Bradley and Ivan Calderon and a walk to Frank Thomas. 
Fisk, who also had a three­run double in Tuesday night's 4-1 victory over Oakland, then doubled to left-center field. 
"He (Jim Abbott) threw me three good fast balls and I fouled them off, then he threw me a slider that was down and I went and put a pretty good swing on the ball," Fisk said. "I wouldn't call the pitch a mis­take. Just being in a good posi­tion to hit it." 
White Sox starter Wayne Edwards (3-2) gave up five hits and two runs in six innings, striking out seven. Bobby Thigpen pitched the ninth for his 43rd save, three shy of Dave Righetti's major-league record. 
Chicago made it 4-2 in the seventh when a single by Calderon brought home Sammy Sosa, who walked and ad­vanced to third on a groundout and a stolen base. Ozzie Guillen added an RBI single in the eighth. 
Abbott pitched 6 1-3 innings for the Angels as his record fell to 8-12. 
Manager Jeff Torborg called the White Sox win a team .:Jf­fort. 
"We scratched for everything we needed tonight," he said. 
"When we were down by two against Abbott, I thought we were in trouble. He's an excel­lent pitcher." 
Angel manager Doug Rader says the way the team lost ­losing a two-run lead -is an indication of a team struggling. 
"Unfortunately, when a club is struggling, it comes down to one pitch, one play, or one at­bat," he said. "It's frustrating and disappointing, but not something to hang your head over." 
Braves 3, Cubs 0 

ATLANTA) -Steve Avery became the youngest Atlanta pitcher ever to pitch a shutout as the Braves beat the Chicago Cubs 3-0 on Friday night. But the 20-year-old rookie left­bander wasn't impressed by his performance. 
"It's nice," he said, t'but it's just good to finally do some­thing. 
Avery did a lot. He held the Cubs to six hits, struck out a career-high eight batters. walked only two and also had two of the six hits allowed by Chicago's Greg Maddux (11-11). who also went the distance. 
"The difference between this game and my other games is that I ·had command of my pitches tonight," said Avery (3­7}. "I was trying to move them in and out." 
Atlanta manager Bobby Cox had nothing but praise for his highly regarded rookie. 
"When you have a 20-year­old who changes pitches like that, you've got something," Cox said. "He's going to be a lot of fun for a lot of years. I wouldn't be surprised if he threw five more shutouts in a row." 
The Cubs also were impressed by Avery. 
Maddux said he was pleased with his own performance, but added. "the other guy pitched better than I did. His fastball is what impressed me the most." 
Chicago manager Don Zimmer disagreed. 
"Oh no," Zimmer said. "It was his changeup. Avery knows how to pitch and he pitched ex­tremely well tonight." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
Couch, 2 recliner chairs, maple BETH NEEDS TICKETS!!!!! Jill,FOR RENT FOR SALE rocker, 2 night stands, lamps 272· Have a great freshman year! Stay
NOTICES 

9776 Student tickets needed for out of trouble. Remember. Big Michigan, Miami, Penn State. and Brother is watching.
AVAILABLE NOW-516 bdrm., 2·

TYPING AVAILABLE COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: Air Force.
bath house. Newly Decorated. Secure House. Competitive Rent. 

287-4082 19" COLOR TV, TWO 
SEMESTERS $11 0, ONE 234·6688, 234·5041. 
SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO 
.....___T_I_C_K_ET_S__.....I~~~~-~~~~-~:=~~~~~-~..........
SEMESTERS $90, ONE hi ag SEMESTER $65. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717·5959.
WANTED I PERSONALS
3 ROOM APTS., 2 PEOPLE PER 
297-2192.

--------------...----------------------­
APT. AT $200 EACH, UTILITIES SMCGALS·POST ADVERTISING MATERIALS INCLUDED. 315 N. TAYLOR, 282· GET ACQUAINTED OFFER.
ON CAMPUS. WRITE: COLLEGE 1014. 
10% OFF ONE ITEM WITH THIS

DISTRIBUTORS, 33 FOOTBALL TIX & HOTEL AD AND SMC ID.
PEBBLEWOOD TR.. 719 E. HOWARD. 2 OR 3 MACINTOSH -w/extras. 234-PACKAGE AVAILABLE FOR THE COUNTRY HARVESTERNAPERVILLE, IL 60563. 
BEDROOM. 112 MILE FROM 3605. MICHIGAN STATE GAME ON "The Great Little Gift Store"
CAMPUS. ATIACHED GARAGE. 9122 & 9123. $119.50/PERSON 
~~ 
LAFORTUNE STUDENT

WANTED-Subway delivery BUT DBL. OCCUPANCY
BIG EAT-IN KITCHEN. BIG LIVING THIS STUFF IS NICE-NOT JUNK. 
CENTERdriver/counterperson for Notre ROOM, BIG DINING ROOM. 19" TV table model cable-ready REQUIRED. CALL 233-7056. 

oo~~TI~ ~§.]

Dame & St. Mary's. Uniforms, SPONSORED BY MSU ALUMNI
SCREENED IN PORCH. 277-4469 color $100; 
Oil YOURSELF A ft.AII()R
_.,_ .............

meals, and hourly bonus. RHONDA. Wrought Iron Sofa, $40; like new CLUB. 
Applicants must have dependable VISA & MASTERCARD BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 22­
Hexagon coffee table, $15; Nice transportation. Call 277·7744 for stereo AM-FM cassette. $50; ACCEPTED. MO. CHILD. TUES-THURS. OR 
or~;;To;2~;-$8-:-99____1
1

interview appointment. Microwave stand, $15; Chrom. MON.WED.FRI. OR M-F. 8-12:30.
NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and 

I save over $2.50 I
234-8743.

secure fum. apt: 755 South Bend adjustable floor lamp,$10; adu~ 
I Pick any two Gounncl SandWlchD. I Ave., 1 bdrm. $265, dep., bike used 3 times, $60, paid new 1 two Garden Salads, plus your choic<' ul 1 
PART TIME references. 616-483-9572. $119. Call 272-0885. I French Fri~i~-~~~~gs and ~ I
HELP!!!!
Kitchen prep person 

Parents' first and last chance It =•tiondat~9/9 ..J
ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN, OR to see an NO football game. 
needed.Weekend evenings.$4 hr. ROOM AVAILABLE, LAUNDRY NEED A LOFT? I'VE GOT ONE BISEXUAL? Student Discussion I~;--------IApply Fondue Parlor FACILITIES. WALK TO N.D. $160 FOR YOU!! It's sturdy, hand· Desperately need 2 GA's and one
100 Center-Mish. after 4 p.m. MO. LAW OR GRAD STUD. 234· painted and only $35. If interested, Groups meeting weekly. For time 
student ticket for MICHIGAN. 

and place call Mike 237-0788. please call AMY (R.) I 99¢ Buy any size sundae and
8743. call Michelle x3879. 
I I 
272·8954 receive a second one of the
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED Furnished room, air, kitchen, 10-SPEED BIKE, SEPT-MAY. TURTLE CREEK phone line. Close to campus. 272-RECONDITIONED. $85. 232-1 same size for 99¢
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ~~----------·--·-·----·---------·· 
APTS. 273-9406. 0615 6509, 237-1170, 234-8743. 
L----~£~~.2!!:.~!-J 
Saturday, August 25, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Huffman's brother says he lacks respect for Holtz 
Vikings lineman Dave Huffman played for NO from 1975-78, supports brother's claims 
MANKATO, Minn. (AP) -first-person article published in Steve Huffman is neither a liar this week's Sports Illustrated, nor a quitter, said Dave saying he was injured but Holtz Huffman, his older brother. showed no concern for the wel­
Dave Huffman, a Minnesota fare of his players. He added Vikings offensive lineman who, that use of steroids was like Steve, played at Notre widespread. Dame, also said Thursday that Holtz denied the steroid he didn't have a very high opin­charges. He also apologized for ion of Lou Holtz as a coach. naming Huffman in his book. 
In his book, "The Fighting After speaking to his little Spirit," Holtz wrote that he de­brother, Dave Huffman was livered a speech to his squad ready to offer support -some­during which he said of Steve thing few others are doing. Huffman: "You let everybody in "I've known Steve for his this room down if you quit. It whole life," said Dave Huffman, almost seemed like he planned who played under Dan Devine to put his teammates in check­at Notre Dame. "He's not a liar. mate." He's not a druggie. He's not a 
Steve Huffman shot back in a bum off the street. 
11icON CAMPUS Country :Harvester 
'The yreat Litt[e yift Store! 

Offers U.P.S. Service Monday.-Friday 12.-5 Saturday 11..2 Sunday 11..2 Browse am.ong our neat selection 
of room decor. Find a yummy candy or trail mix to munch on. Cuddle up with a teddy bear, blanket and glowing scented candles. Choose the 'just right" gift for your SYR dates. 
All this and much more at • • • • 
'Ifie Country Harvester 
Lower Level .. South Door .--!.;;.;:~ LaFortune \ ~. ~ 
~--~~ 239~6714 




"Here was a guy who got la­beled by a pretty powerful man and by a pretty powerful insti­tution, by a pretty powerful media machine, as a quitter and is gonna have to fight that label for a long time. That's the kind of thing you don't want to have to go through life with. He's not a quitter." 
He said he knew of no steroid use when he was at Notre Dame from 1975-78. 
"We also had Notre Dame people there who watched out for their kids. Maybe that sit­uation has changed," Dave Huffman said. 
Asked if he meant the well­traveled Holtz is not a "Notre 
Steroids 
continued from page 24 
was looking for a job in the NFL. 
Regarding the NCAA infrac­tions, Holtz said he was "not at liberty to comment" about his meeting with investigators. About the NFL, Holtz had pure denials. 
He claimed that he never talked to an NFL team about a coaching job, and that he was "perfectly content" at Notre Dame. 
"I have nothing but the ut­most respect for and confidence in the University of Notre Dame and its family," Holtz said in Friday's South Bend Tribune. "I can't imagine having finer or more cooperative administrators with whom to work." 
Rev. E. William Beauchamp confirmed that the happiness was mutual at a press confer­ence held Thursday on the steps of the administration building. 
"I look forward to his being 
here for a long time, for as long 
as he wants to be " Dame person," Huffman said: "You can take that for whatever you want." 
He later said: "The thing that started this was Lou's indiscre­tion in his book. I think even he realizes the stupidity of some­thing like that. Here's a man, supposedly, blaming a lot of things on kids trying to make
000 

it through school." 
There is no Holtz admiration society in the Huffman family. Another brother, Mike, played under Holtz at Arkansas and felt Holtz tried to run him off the team because he was in­jured. 
Dave Hufl'man said he knows what Sports Illustrated's letters to the editor will be like in two weeks. 
"We're going to have every jarhead in the world come out and talk about Lou," he said. "And we should start the beau­tification process now and deify him at this point. Steve's gonna hang. He's gonna hang and dangle for a long time. That's life." 
There have been rumors that Holtz -who was at Minnesota between stints at Arkansas and Notre Dame -might end up coaching the Vikings. 
"I'd pick up his first year's salary for him to come here."
00. 

Dave Huffman said. 

Scores of Notre Dame students try their hands at boxing each Spring in the Bengal Bouts. 
Chinese-American Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge Authentic Szechuan,
TIEPIII:E IFSIBS 
I 
t Condo Suite : 
i •
For Sale 


•: by owner
•

iAdjacent to the ND Campus
lntroduc.ng three new deli· ctous Rax deli subs­~~ Ham and Cheese 

: Enjoy your own unit of the 
Sub, the Turkey. Ham and Cheese Sub and the Italian Sub. They're btg. they're fresh and now. 
i 
Jamison Inn 

they're agreat deal Look below tor val­uable money-savtng coupons. Then hurry tnto Rax and dive into a sub. 
1: 1404 N. Ivy at Edison Ij Personal Comfort and Investment
NOBODY STAX UPTOR_ax 
in a warm and efficiently
r-------r-------T-------,-------, 
operated hotel

I sse I Sl.99 I Sl.99 I 82.99 I 
I Any Half-Sub I Two Rax Roast I Grilled Chicken I Lunch I 
$84,500

Iwith purchase of I Beef I Breast I or I 
1 

contact Peter Hasbrook
I20 oz. Coke or I Sandwiches I Sandwich I Dinner Bar 
other Soft Drink I! Umit 2 1 Umit 2 ! Limit 2 ! Limit 2 I 
517-631-3337 

'offer good thnu Sept. 30, 19901Joffer good thnu Sept. 30. 1990 offer good thnu Sept. 30, 1ggo1offer good thnu Sept. 30, 19901 l :.:.s:;O:.~::"~ :::.-~==-:--• I :::;;~:::",!""~ I ~c:::":-J 
H 910 Holyrood
r ~=:....~.::= R6x I ::=-...:.--""•.:;::. R..ax I ~=::.~..::.:. RiJx I =:--~-= RiJx I 
L~Ofte<gooc:l&l~-""9 L ~0"-'goCid .. tte"<-..a:'"" ofllo·O.... ..........,<...... .....o..........Jiei'C.....-.a llluRetltutiN.t Ill••"""-""..,.' J. A,,j::..,._.,... .1 ..........,.. .J 
t~____M_t_·d_la_nd_,_M__I_48_6_4_o____~ 


j 
·""
··' 
l 
.i 


Saturday, August 25, 1990a e 16 The Observer 

Curry overwhelmed by Kentucky fan response 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP) -Bill 1957 by Coach Blanton Collier. Curry knows the honeymoon He was upset that Coach Jerry isn't going to last forever at the Claiborne had allowed others to University of Kentucky. use it. 
The new coach told 700 sup­"I was really mad and dis­porters attending the annual gusted about it," he told re­Kentucky Kickoff Luncheon porters afterward. Friday that he has been over­Claiborne, however, was whelmed with the reception he unaware about the number be­has received since taking the ing retired from use. position-on Jan. 8. "I don't know anything about 
The crowd even cheered min­it," he said after the banquet. utes before he took the podium After receiving his plaque, when his face flashed on the Ball looked over to Curry and screen in a video about the past said, "l told you I was big in accomplishments of the Kentucky." Kentucky program. 
"I keep reminding my staff Curry, Ball's teammate for we're going to have to play four seasons with the Baltimore soon," Curry said, referring to Colts in the late 1960s, got the the Sept. 1 home opener final jab. against Central Michigan. "We haven't lost sight of that." "Sam, now I know you're big at 
The current Kentucky pro­Kentucky," he told the All­gram, howev_er, took a backseat American offensive tackle. " 
The Rockne Memorial, located on the west end of South Quad, is one of the many athletic facilities open
to 11 other players and a coach Now you can quit telling me." 
to students during the school year.
who had jerseys retired. 
Two-time All-Americans Vito "Babe' Parilli, Bob Gain and Lou Michaels were joined by John ''Shipwreck" Kelly, Ralph Kercheval, Bob Davis, George Blanda, Steve Meilinger, Sam Ball, Warren Bryant and Art 

CARPET REMNANT SALE
Still along with former coach Paul "Bear" Bryant. "We felt it was way past the 

1,000 REMNANTS 10°/o TO 20°/o OFF
time for it to be done," said athletics director C.M. Newton. "We've got more than 12 who should be honored." 
Gain. the Outland Trophy winner in 1950, said, "I think this is a wonderful thing to bring back the old-timers. It lets everybody know we have football and not just basketball at Kentucky." 
Parilli. the keynote speaker, recalled riding in a the boxcar of a train. sitting on a casket, during his first visit to Kentucky in 1948. He was able to fly back the next time several weeks later, and after a work­out with about 20 varsity play­ers, Bryant offered him a scholarship. 
One of the toughest defeats for Parilli came in the final regular-season game of the 1950, falling 7-0 to Tennessee. Several weeks later. he led the Wildcats to a 13-7 victory over No. 1 Oklahoma in the Sugar Bowl. 
"That was probably the re­ward we got for that loss to Tennessee," he said. 
Gain recalled that the final 
football polls of the season back 
then didn't include bowl games. 
"We were probably No. 3 or No. 4 in the nation," he said of Kentucky's ranking before the Sugar Bowl. "Deep down, we thought we were No. 1." 
Parilli praised Bryant for 
bringing out the best in the 
players. 
"We had a bunch of over­
achievers," said Parilli, who 
went on to a 16-year profes­
sional career. "I can't tell you 
how hard we practiced and 
how hard we played." 
Blanda, 62, guided Kentucky 

4119 Grape, Mishawaka, IN
to the Great Lakes Bowl in 

"At Grape and Day Road"
1947, the school's first bowl appearance. He later spent 26 In Decorators Walk Shopping Center years in pro football, becoming 277-9711 the first player to score over 2,000 points. Monday to Friday 9:00 to 8:30 Saturday 9:00 to 5:30 Sunday 1:00 to 5:30 
"The biggest memory I have is meeting my wife (Betty) of 41 

Bring this ad in to our store and get an extra 5% off our already low low sale price.
years other than being exposed 

to Bear Bryant," he said. "It One ad per purchase. 
was very difficult playing for 
him. but he prepared us for the 
outside world. He wanted us to 
become good football players, 
but he also wanted us to de­
velop good character. 
The recognition was some­
what bittersweet for Michaels, 
who had his No. 79 retired in 



Macintosh® helps increase your performance by offering 4 key advantages: powerful technology that's easy to use, unequaled consistency among software applications, built-in networking, and a smooth growth path to protect your investment. Stop by the ND Computer Store and make the Mac Advantage your own! 
Apple®Bundle #l 
• 8 MHz 68000 microprocessor 
Macintosh SE 

• 
2 MB of RAM (memory) 

• 
40 MB internal hard disk drive 

• 
1.4MB internal floppy disk drive 

• 
1 expansion slot, 7 ports 

• 
HyperCard®software • Microsoft®Word 4.0 

• 
Standard keyboard 

• 
1 year limited warranty 


Option#] ® Option #2 Apple Imagewriter II printer Extended Keyboard 
$1,594.00 

$360 $66 Total = $1,954 Total= $1,660 
Apple Bundle #2 
• 16 MHz 68030 microprocessor Macintosh SE/30 • 68882 math coprocessor 
• 
5 MB of RAM (memory) 

• 
40 MB internal hard disk drive 

• 
1.4 MB internal floppy disk drive 

• 
1 expansion slot, 7 ports 

• 
HyperCard software 

• 
Microsoft Word 4.0 

• 
Standard keyboard 

• 
1 year limited warranty 



Option#] Option #2 Apple Imagewriter II printer Extended Keyboard $360 $66 Total = $2,960 Total = $2,666 
Apple representatives are on campus to answeryour questions 
Conference Room 104, Computing Ctr/Math Bldg Fri. 9:00-5:00, Sat. 9:00-3:00 & Mon. 9:00-5:00 
!J' !J' ~ M H I'. • ! ! !JI • • . • • ' 



The Observer/File Photo University President Rev. Edward Malloy, a former Irish varsity basketball player, occasionally makes an appearance at the Rockne Memorial on campus to fine-tune his skills against students in pick-up games. 
Colts break camp, place 7 players on waivers 
ANDERSON, Ind. (AP) ­When the Indianapolis Colts broke camp at Anderson University on Friday, the club did some house cleaning on another front by waiving seven players. 


The cuts announced by Coach Ron Meyer reducing the club's roster to 64 players plus four unsigned veterans and injured running back Eric Dickerson. 
The team must be down to a maximum of 60 players on the roster by Thesday. 
Tight end Dwayne O'Connor, a two-year starter at Purdue who played at Concord High School in northern Indiana, was one of the players released. 
Also waived on Friday were defensive backs Orsorio Jackson and David Rider, linebacker Tony Massey, running back Alfred Rawls, offensive lineman Caesar Rentie and wide receiver Dale Amos. 

In other news, Meyer said Friday that strong safety Michael Ball and defensive end Sam Clancy are both doubtful for Monday night's game with ' Philadelphia because of 
,j injuries. 
l: 
Ball suffered a strained

li 
1 hamstring and Clancy pulled his groin, both in the Thursday afternoon practice. Clancy's injury is particularly significant because Donnell Thompson, the other starting defensive end, pulled his groin against Seattle and will miss the Philadelphia game. Meyer said he will use Gary 
I; Baldinger and Sean McNanie at 
l' 
defensive end against the 

ii Eagles. Meanwhile, Ray Donaldson. the senior member of the Indianapolis Colts. welcomed the end of his 11th training camp. 
"Ten or 11, there's no difference. It's always a good feeling knowing camp is about to end, knowing that you get to be home and be with the family and kids and relax a little bit," he said. · 
Donaldson leaves camp anchoring a young offensive line that has two players who have yet to make their first NFL starts. Zefross Moss and Pat Tomberlin. 
The extended holdout by left guard Randy Dixon, the trade of Chris Hinton and the loss of Ben Utt to Plan B free agency makes Donaldson and Kevin Call the only available returning starting linemen. 
The Observer Saturday, August 25, 1990 
Illinois QB tries to fill George's shoes 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP) ­Illinois quarterback Jason Verduzco clearly is no carbon copy of Jeff George, but Coach John Mackovic can live with that. 
After all, Mackovic still has a versatile running attack and one of the best defenses. 
But. George's early departure to the NFL and a $15 million contract with the Indianapolis Colts left backup Verduzco as the likely starter this season. 
"He doesn't need to be Jeff George ... just the best Jason Verduzco," said Mackovic. "We definately need for him to be a high-percentage passer." 
Eighteen starters return from from a team that finished last season 10-2 with a victory over Virginia in the Citrus Bowl. 
The key question will be the quarterback situation. 
"I don't feel a lot of pressure because it's not a one-man team -it takes all of us to win," said Verduzco, who completed 16 of 26 passes for 172 yards in 1989. "You'll see the same basic Illinois offense with maybe a few new wrinkles." 
At 5-foot-9, 185-pounds, Verduzco is seven inches shorter and 25 pounds lighter than George. But. Mackovic said his sophomore quarter­back is "more of a scrambler" and has potential. 
"I think you'll see a little more play-action with Jason," said Mackovic. "But, if he can go straight back, find the man and get the ball to him, fine." 
Fullback Howard Griffith, who rushed for 747 yards and caught 45 passes last season, will lead the running game. Mackovic calls him "the best all-around back in the country." 

Top receiver Mike Bellamy is gone but 6-4 senior Shawn Wax, who caught 26 passes last season, gives the Illini a polished pass catcher. 
"He is one of the best clutch receivers ... tough but not a speed demon," said Mackovic. 
The defense will be led by All-America noseguard Moe Gardner, who was double-and triple-teamed last season, opening holes for other line­men. 
"When we play at the top of our game, nobody can move the ball on us," said Gardner, a 6-2, 258-pound senior. 
Other defensive standouts in­clude linebackers Darrick Brownlow and Mel Agee and defensive backs Henry Jones, Marlon Primous and Quintin Parker. The other scheduled starter in the secondary, Chris Green, broke his leg in a pre­season scrimmage and will miss at least half the season. 
"We'll miss Jeff George but I don't think it will put any more pressure on us," said Agee, a 6­4, 284-pound senior. "We'll have to play the run a little bet­ter ... stop those big backs." 
The Citrus Bowl victory ­Illinois' first postseason win since the 1964 Rose Bowl ­gives the team confidence heading into this season, said placekicker Doug Higgins. 
1=»110 1111011 

B•I•K•E S·H•O•P 
specialists in pro bikes is welcoming students back to school by taking 10% off a full selection of 1990 bikes and summer clothing. 
Mon-Fri I 0 am-7 pm Sat 9am-5pm on N. Ironwood Dr. (between S.R. 23 and Edison) 272-0129 

BAPTIST Student Union 

Bible Study · 
Join 
Us! 

MISHAWAKA FURNITURE CORP. 
FURNITURE-APPLIANCES-CARPETING 
402 Lincoln Way West Mishawaka, IN 46544 phone:259-5494 
We have everything for your students' dorm room or apartment: chairs, tables, lamps, desks, love seats, sofas, dinettes... All of our items are new and we have many one-of-a-kind discontinued items or odd pieces. 
Chairs S7S.OO Many tables starting at S50.00 Lamps as low as S25.00 
We are open every night until 8:30 during the week, Saturday B:OD-5:30, and Sunday 12 noon-5:30 We are on Lincoln Way West in Mishawaka-Just two blocks east of the 100 Center on the north side of the sheet. 

Saturday, August 25, 1990 
The Observer page 19 
Ex-IU star Thompson looks good to Cards coach 
TEMPE, Ariz. (AP) -Rookie needs to get knocked around a the Rams game. who had an NCAA-record 68 Wilson said Las Vegas was an running back Anthony little bit." That sounds fine to career touchdowns and rushed agreed-upon neutral site for Thompson suited up with the Thompson, a second-round Thompson. for a school-record 5,299 yards both sides. Phoenix Cardinals for the first draft pick from Indiana and the "I don't like to pace the side­as a Hoosier, agreed to contract Terms of Thompson's contract time Friday and wasted no time 1989 Heisman Trophy runner­lines. I'm too much of a com­terms Wednesday morning in were not publicly disclosed, in impressing head coach Joe up, should get his first contact petitor," he said. "I'd like to get Las Vegas. keeping with team policy, but Bugel. in Saturday night's preseason in there. I know most of the He and his two representa­sources said he got a three-year
"Quick. A lightning bolt," game against the Los Angeles running plays and some of the tives -agent Marvin Demoff deal worth $1.275 million. Bugel said after watching Rams in Anaheim, Calif. passing plays. I'm five pounds and family advisor Dr. Dan The contract reportedly in­Thompson run several'plays Despite missing the first 31 heavier, 215 right now, but I Grossman -met there with cludes a $340,000 signingduring a 70-minute morning days of training camp, Bugel feel real quick and real fast. Cardinals general manager bonus, half of which is deferred practice. "What he needs now said Thompson will get "four or I'm just a little rusty." Larry Wilson and the team's until Jan. 1, and roster bonuses is repetitions in full pads. He five snaps ... maybe more" in The 5-foot-11 Thompson, chief negotiator Bob Wallace. of $25,000 each season. 
..................................,,...................., ................................ head coach Chris Petrucelli's exhibition match of the season 
first test since coming over when they took a tough
, 
Fall 
from Old Dominion with Wisconsin squad into overtime
I ~ 
continued from page 24 Berticelli. before losing 4-1 on August 21
~ UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME I 
After the Northeast Missouri in Madison, Wis. you play you want to win, but State match the Irish will travel The Notre Dame men's and
~~ Foreign Study Programs ~ 
the results that will be most down tobacco road for matches women's cross country teams
~ INVITES YOU TO ATTEND ~ 
important for us will be how at Duke and UNC-Greensboro will return to action against
I I
A GENERAL INFORMATION SESSION 

well we execute." in what could be the most diffi­Georgetown Sept. 15 at Burke 
The Notre Dame women's cult part of their schedule. Memorial Golf Course under the 
soccer team begins its season Under Petrucelli Notre Dame direction of Coach Joe Piane.
~ I 
Sept. 1 at Krause Stadium will try to improve on last The men's squad has defeated! WHEN: SUNDAY.AUGUST26. 1990 ~ against Northeast Missouri year's 12-10 record. the Hoyas in each of the past ~ WHERE: JACC ARENA. Sections 4/5/6 (Purple and Orange) ! State. The match will be new The Irish played their only three years, including last ~ TIME: 2:15P.M. ~ year's 22-33 triumph. 
All-American Mike O'Connor
~Immediately following the 9enera1 information session. individual sessions for ~ ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
is back to lead the men's team,
~ ea=:.:r~m will be held 1n the following rooms: rYV'I\' ! •• • 
which finished ninth in last
Information 
• year's national rankings and Sessions won its second consecutive••• Midwestern Collegiate 
~ A=ce Qr~=~le Go=Gym i 
•• 
~ lnnsbruck. Austria Dr. Albert Wmmer C4 ~ 
Conference championship.
•

Jerusalem St. Mary Aquin ONeill Administrative ;., ~ Conference Room ~ 
! Senior captain Terese Lemanski 
will lead the Irish women, who
! Maynoolh.lrelond Ms. Roxonn Brown Monogram Room 8 ! • 
finished second to Dayton in the 
~ Saint Mary's College ~ 
MCC last season. 
~ Mexico City. Mexico Dr. Olivero-Wilfiams Monogram Room C ~ 
~ Nagoya. Japan Fr. George Minamikl. SJ Pool. Rolf's ~ 
Fri., Aug. 24 Sun., Aug. 26 
~ Rome. Italy Dr. Peter Checco ::::~::er ~ 1:30 p.m. 2:15p.m.: Saint Mary's College 
! 
•• • 0.: Toledo. Spain Dr. Carlos Jerez-Faron Arena. Section 5 ~ LITTLE THEATRE JOYCEACC 
• United way~ Former student participants will also be on hand to discuss their ! MOREAU HALL (after general session) •• 
~ experiences. offer comments and answer quest1ons. ~ It bringsout the best in aJI of us. ................................................................, ...........................J PARENTS WELCOME : • 
Open Daily 1 0-5:30pm Sat 10-5 
Directions: 
_•.:.NiiiD.__.. g Edlson ~ McKinley 
---to 

Mishawaka a.* 
Carpet your dorm room with thick, beautiful 
carpet, but not empty your pocketbook! 
Sizes from 6x9, 12x7, 12x9, 12x12, 12x13, 
12x14, 12x15, 12x16, 12x18, and up. 
Brinq Your Measurements Visa and Mastercard accepted 
234-5148 

Free Domino's Pizza with Purchase: 12 x 8 or larger 
~--------------------...................................... 


1990 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL OPPONENTS 
page 20 Saturday, August 25, 1990 

A FULL SERVICE EQUESTRIAN FACIUTY 
FOUR FLAGS FARM 
!J3£J and !Buak{a1.l 
THE KERNERS RED BUD TRAIL NORTH 
PHONE BUCHANAN, Ml 49107 
616-471-5711 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 

-
1nema 
at 


the 
nite 

THE FINEST IN CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT 

COOK Tm THlEF,
nil ' ER 
I II~ "E &'Ill~ LOY
W \ F1 1, .1·r (.rc~na"aY
f\ hllll " < < 

~'ffijlfi} 'IIEMlf f• Roget~llle 
Films shown every TUE. WED. FRI. SAT. 
Check your mailbox for your complete film calendar for the semester. Or pick one up at 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall or at tha Snlta Museum. 
MY LEFT FOOT FRI 6 SAT AUG.31, SEPT.1 7:30, 11:45 
1\ 
\.. ......-::::-!..:.+ 12 South Bend .'1. ;•-: :Ge 
..--:..., ./~ ----------·-· 
~-----.......__ ­

I: 
( 
'I
f'l I 
IJ \~
l~)
,I_ 
I 
I 
( 
I) 
, I 
I 
(I 
'• 
Town & Country Shopping Centre (219) 256-5898 

)i 
j 

$2.00 OFF any CD 
NO/ /Mt! 

EXCLUDES ~Ad.. IIL.'.fS 4N/J u5t ·. 
Expires 9-9-1990 
$1.00 OF·F any tape 
NO LIM!• 

EXCLUDES SAL I:, I t:AH) AN{) USED 
Expires 9-9-1990 
1989 Recap: 8-4 (6-2 Big RB Jerome Sparkman. RB Tony Series with Notre Dame: Dame Stadium 
MICHIGAN 

Ten), 33-13 victory over Hawaii Vinson, LE Frank Kmet, LT Jeff Date, Place: Sept. 15 in Notre 
in Aloha Bowl Zgonina, LB Eric Beatty, LB Dame Stadium 
Darrin Trieb, CB Steve Jackson, Key Losses: OT Bob Kula, FB 

SS Terry Johnson, FS Nat

Steve Montgomery, TB BlakeCoach: Gary Moeller (first Martin, PK Larry Sullivan, SEEzor, DE Matt Vanderbeek, DTseason) Abe Hoskins, FL Rob Dennis
Tim Ridinger, DT Travis Davis, I 1989 Recap: 10-2 (8-0 Big DE Chris Willertz. LB Percy Opening Game: Sept. 15 vs.I Ten), 17-10 loss to Southern Cal Snow, CB Ventson Donelson, SS Washington
in Rose Bowl 
Harlon Barnett 

l: \ Series with Notre Dame: 
Key Losses: SE Greg 

Key Returnees: FL Courtney Notre Dame leads 38-21-2 
McMurty, TB Tony Boles, TE Hawkins, LG Eric Moten, C Jeff 

Derrick Walker, FL Chris 

Pearson, RG Matt Keller, Rt Jim STANFORD \\ Johnson, TE Duane Young, QB
Calloway, QB Michael Taylor, MG Mike Teeter, LB J .J. Grant, 

Dan Enos, WR James Bradley, Date, Place: Oct. 6 in Notre 
LB Bobby Abrams PK John Langeloh, LB Carlos Dame Stadium Jenkins, LB Dixon Edwards, CB

Key Returnees: QB Elvis Coach: Dennis Green {3-8 in
Allan Haller, FS Mike
Grbac, TB Allen Jefferson, QT one year)
~~ 
Ianquaniello, P Josh Butland 
Tom Dorhing, RG Dean

:i 
I Dingman, C Steve Everitt, LG Opening Game: Sept. 15 at 1989 Recap: 3-8 {3-5 in Pac 
10)
Matt Elliott, ST Greg Skrepenak, FB Jerrod Bunch, 

J\ Syracuse 
Key Losses: OG A.

Series with Notre Dame:
PK J.D. Carlson, LB Alex 
Papathanassiou, TE Jim Price,

Notre Dame leads 36-18-1 
Marshall, DT Chris Hutchinson, DT Lester Archambeau, SS Rob
DT Mike Evans, LB Erick 
Englehardt, Cb Alan Grant, LBAnderson, CB Lance Dottin, CB PURDUE Rob Hinckley, LB Bruce Long 

David Key, SS Tripp Welborne, FS Vada Murray, P Chris Key Returnees: OT Darran
Date, Place: Sept. 29 in Notre Stapleton Baird, OG Chuck Gillingham,
Dame Stadium OT Bob Whitfield, RB J.J.
Coach: Fred Akers (10-22-1Opening Game: Sept. 15 at Lasley, WR Ed McCaffrey. C
in three years) 
Notre Dame 

Rick Pallow, SE Jon Pickney, QB Series with Notre Dame: 
1989 Recap: 3-8 {2-6 Big Ten) Steve Smith, Rb Tommy Vardell, Michigan leads 13-8 
Pk John Hopkins, DT MattKey Losses: SE Robert 

Borkowski, LB Dave Garnett,I Oglesby, OT Bruce Brineman,

MICHIGAN STATE NG Aaron Rembisz, CB Albert
I OT Bill Hitchcock, TE Dwayne Richardson, CB Kevin Scott, LBO'Connor, FL Calvin Williams,
·~~ 
Date, Place: Sept. 22 in Jono Tunney, P Paul
DT Ken Kushner,· DE Dennis Stonehouse, LB Chris Hawkins,Spartan Stadium 
Dotson, CB Derrick Kelson 
J' TE Turner Baur Coach: George Perles {46-33­
r 
Key Returnees: LG Derick Opening Game: Sept. 6 at
2 in seven years) Schmidt, C Bob Dressel. RG Colorado Jason Cegielski, QB Eric Hunter, 

I 
''Sinct:' Jll:-->1 · 
PASTA DISHES LASAGNA 

@arlol'o 
3EAFOOD RISOTTO SqHLS FLORENTIN~ "Tizc Italian ';TIJFFED FLOUNDER
\ 
EGG PLANT PARMIGIANA Uistorante" ~; C:I\PPFLLETTI 0. -4 1
PIZZA mner 4p.m. -' p.m. 'l~>NOUET RooM Sundays 4 -9p.m. (219)232-4244 ,,.I --v~ =Welcome Freshmen 
and Parents South of Notre G:J.:ne :; Golde·· :'J 

Notre Dame leads 5-1 
AIR FORCE 

Date, Place: Oct. 13 in Notre Dame Stadium 
Coach: Fisher DeBerry (48­25-1 in six years) 
1989 Recap: 8-4-1 (5-1-1 in Western Athletic) lost 42-29 to Mississippi in Liberty Bowl 
Key Losses: QB Dee Dowis, HB Greg Lewis, LB Randle Gladney 
Key Returnees: LB Brian Hill, Cb Eric Faison, FB Rodney Lewis, K Joe Wood, LB J.T. Tokish, C Paul Walski, HB Chris Howard, FL Darryl Woods 
Opening Game: Sept. 1 vs. Colorado State 
Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 15-4 
MIAMI 

Date, Place: Oct. 20 in Notre 
Coach: Dennis Erickson (11-1 in one year) 
1989 Recap: 11-1, 33-25 victory over Alabama in Sugar Bowl 
Key Losses: OG Rod Holder, C Bobby Garcia, FL Dale Dawkins, DE Greg Mark, DT Cortez Kennedy, DE Willis Peguese, LB Rick Newbill, LB Bernard Clark 
Key Returnees: WR Randal Hill, OT Mike Sullivan, OG Darren Handy, OT Leon Searcy, TE Rob Chudzinski, QB Craig Erickson, FB Leonard Conley, TB Wesley Carroll, DT Russell Maryland, LB Maurice Crum, SS Hurlie Brown, FS Charles Pharms, CB Roland Smith, DE Shane Curry, LB Michael Barrow, LB Darrin Smith, FB Steve McGuire 
Opening Game: Sept. 8 vs. 

BYU 
Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 14-7-1 
Our Entire Stock of CO's & Tapes
lr 
)I 
i: II 
II *Are on Sale* 
Just Cut Out Our Coupon and Choose from 1000's!! l!: 10.99 CD 6.99 TAPE NEW RELEASES ON SALE! The Sundays Jane's Addiction
;: 
h Faith No More 
The Pixies
ij
f 
Allman Bros.

I Prince 
'! Steve Earle 
Bob Mould
The Black Crowes Stop by and check out our giant posters, T-shirts, Used CO's, Tapes and LP's, also imports & independent labels (Waxtrax, SST & mot·e). St=ccial order<; welcomed. 

DOWN TO EARTH PRICES· OUT OF THIS WORlD SELECTION 
i
1990 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL OPPONENTS
Saturday, August 25, 1990 page 21 
I 
i
PITTSBURGH Keith Hamilton. LB Ricardo DT Scott Prinz, DB Steve Tazza, Key Losses: OG Eric Still, SE McDonald, LB Curtis Bray, LB DB Bob Weissenfels Thomas Woods, DE Marion Date, Place: Oct. 27 in Pitt Nelson Walker, S Louis Riddick, Hobby, DT Martin Williams, DE
Key Returnees: OT Greg
Stadium Lb Craig Gob, TE Lionel Sykes Tracy Hayworth
Hlatky, OG Carl Voss, C Bob Coach: Paul Hackett (first full Opening Game: Sept. l vs. Friedman, TE Dave Berghult, Key Returnees: TE Mark 
season, 1-0 last year) Ohio University QB Alton Grizzard, HB Rodney Adams, LT Charles McRae, LG Purifoy, FB Kwame Moultrie, Tom Myslinski. C John Fisher,1989 Recap: 8-3-1, 31-28 Series with Notre Dame: MG Andy Kirkland, LB Tony Rt Antone Davis, QB Andy Kelly,
victory over Texas A&M in John Notre Dame leads 34-16-1 Domino, LB Bill Bowling, LB · WB Alvin Harper, TB Chuck Hancock Bowl ' 
Beau Laskey, DB Scott Carson, Webb, FB Roland Poles. LT
NAVY 

DB Chris Cordero, WR Jerry Mark Moore, Lb Kacy Rodgers,
Key Losses: OG Dean 
Dawson, FL B.J. Mason LB Shazzon Bradley, LB DarrylCaliguire, OG Chris Goetz, OT Date, Place: Nov. 3 in Giants Hardy, CB J.J. McCleskey, CBRoman Matusz, WR Henry Stadium Opening Game: Sept. 8 vs. 
Keith Denson, SS Kelly Days, FSTuten, CB Alonzo Hampton, SE Richmond Carl Pickens, RB Greg Amsler,
Reggie Williams Coach: George Chaump (first season) Series with Notre Dame: 53-LB Shon Walker, DT Carey 
Key Returnees: T Mike 9-1 Bailey LiVorio, C Chris Sestili, Fl 1989 Recap: 3-8 
Opening Game: Aug. 26 atOrlanda Truitt, TE Eric 
Key Losses: WR Shane Smith, TENNESSEE Colorado
Seaman, QB Alex Van Pelt, TB 
OG Mike Maier, OT MikeCurvin Richards, FB Ronald Kircher, HB James Bradley, LB Date, Place: Nov. 10 in Series with Notre Dame: tied 
Redmond, P Brian Greenfield, E 
David Lowe, DT Greg Reppar, Neyland Stadium 1-1 Coach: Johnny Majors (93-54­
PENN STATE
6 in 13 years) Date, Place: Nov. 17 in Notre
1989 Recap: 11-1 (6-1 in 
Dame Stadium
SEC) 31-27 victory over Arkansas in Cotton Bowl 
Coach: Joe Paterno (220-57-3 
John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 

•u••• ........._ 
Auto & Property Insurance
CHICAGO 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB

MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD


ClUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'MIIIey. 
e *** STIJDENTS*** e 
• 
Ar·e you tired of small laundromats? Tired of people smoking around your clothes? Are e 

• 
you too busy to wash your own clothes? But you want SPECIAL HANDLING of your e : clothes...you'd like your good cottons washed in cold water••.you'd like some things folded : 



e while others hung on hangers... • 
e ...............:MICHIANA CLEANERS IS THE PLACE TO COME TO............... e 
• 
Michiana Cleaners is just down the road from NOTRE DAME and ST. MARY'S on e : Edison Road; located at Parkwood Plaza between Hickory and Grape Roads. We are open : e from 7:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight, seven days a week. We are the largest laundromat • 

e in the area. • 

• 
Michiana Cleaners has a "NO SMOKING" area in the self service laundromat. Free e : steamer and free coffee are just a couple of the things that make Michiana Cleaners •. e special. We also offer Student (and Faculty!) Discounts on top load washers and on • e Drycleaning. • 

• 
Would you like to get your car washed while doing your laundry? PARKWOOD AUTO e 

• 
SPA has a soft cloth exterior car wash that's just great! We use a full line of Turtle Wax e : products. If you'd rather wash your car yourself, we also have a self service car wash. : 

•e 
Our Drycleaning Department and Drop Off Laundry Department cater to the special needs •• e of our customers Monday through Friday. In by 10:00 a.m., out by 6 p.m. Do you haYe e 

• 
an emergency? Need it by noon??? We will have it ready! Weather bad? Drop your e : clothes off at our convenient drive up window, and pick them back up there. : 

• 
MICIDANA CLEANERS & COIN LAUNDRY e 

• 
PARKWOOD AUTO SPA e 


• 720 West Edison Road • 
• (219) 255-2001 • 
: Between Hickory & Grape e 
,,.............................................~ 

in 24 years) 

1989 Recap: 8-3-1, 50-39 victory over BYU in Holiday Bowl 
Key Losses: C Roger Duffy, T Tim Freeman, TB Blair Thomas, TE Dave Jakob, OG Dave Scott, LB Brian Chizmar, LB Andre Collins, DERich Schonewolf, S Sherrod Rainge 
Key Returnees: WR David Daniels, T Matt McCartin, WR Terry Smith, QB Terry Sacca, FB Leroy Thompson, G Sean Love, CB Hernon Henderson, CB Willie Thomas, LB Mark D'Onofrio, DE Frank Giannetti, H Gary Brown, LB Reggie Givens, NT Todd Burger, QBTom Bill, WR O.J. McDuffie, WR Terry Smith 
Opening Game: Sept. 8 vs. Texas* 
Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 7-6-1 
usc 

Date, Place: Nov. 24 in Los Angeles Coliseum 
Coach: Larry Smith (27-8-1 in three years) 
1989 Recap: 9-2-1 (6-0-1 in Pac 10) 17-10 victory over Michigan in Rose Bowl 
Key Losses: S Mark Carrier, TE Scott Galbraith, FB Leroy Holt, SE John Jackson, C Brad Leggett, OG Brent Parkinson, OT Bill Schultz, DT Tim Ryan, LB Delmar Chesley, S Cleveland Colter, CB Dwayne Garner, DG Dan Owens, LB Junior Seau, CB Ernest Spears, LB Michael Williams 
Key Returnees: QB T?dd Marinovich, TB Ricky Ervms, OT Pat Harlow, OG Mark Tucker, FL Gary Wellman, K Quin Rodriguez, NG Gene Fruge, LB Scott Ross. LB Curt Barber 
Opening Game: Aug. 31 vs. Syracuse 
Series with Notre Dame: Notre Dame leads 34-23-4 
United way
• 
Ubrings outthe best in all of us. 
THE FONDUE PARLOR 
~ 
-

--~-~ 
Enjoy one of Michiana's most unique dining experiences. With the purchase of any entree receive 1free soh drink. Offer good to all ND students and faculty. 
_h1 (219)255-1526 
100 Center,Mishawaka 


MADISON, Wis. (AP) ­Barry's the boss and it didn't take Wisconsin's football play­ers long to find that out. 
Barry Alvarez, the Badgers' new coach, earned his players' respect and commanded their attention early. 
"He's got a big bark. Things are Jot different," said quar­terback Tony Lowery. 
"Like in the first meeting, no hats, no earrings, sit up straight and no sir, yes sir. We never did that in the past. It's just totally different. What he wants, he gets, no matter ifit's from us, the alums or whatever. He's treating it as a first-class program." 
Winning that respect from his players was easy but can Alvarez make the rest of the Big Ten respect Wisconsin? In short, can he win? 
First, the former Notre Dame defensive coordinator must make his players understand what winning is all about. 
"The first thing we'll try to do is teach them how to win, what they have to do to accomplish that," said Alvarez. 
"In the last five years this university has won 12 (actually 
14) games: There isn't a guy on that football team who has been through a winning season." 
The Badgers finished 2-9 last 
season and Don Morton was fired at the conclusion of his third year with only six victo­
ries. There are 39 lettermen back for the Badgers, including 16 

Ex-Irish DB Francisco placed on waivers by Washington 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The If no other NFL team claims Washington Redskins placed 
Francisco within 24 hours, he former Notre Dame defensive will remain with the Redskins 
back D'Juan Francisco on the 

on the injured list for the waived-injured reserve list 
remainder of the season. 
Thursday. 

The move was made to open 
,........·. ·········.···cofv1PutiNG seRvices PResENTAtioN···· <J 
Learn about computing services and facilities for students at Notre Dame 
Hesburgh Auditorium 
7:00-8:00p.m. 

TuesdayI WednesdayI Thursday August 281 29I 30 
Sponsored by the Office of University Computing 
page 22 The Observer Saturday, August 25, 1990 
Ex-Irish defensive coordinator Alvarez earns respect as head coach 


who started last season's finale. Alvarez already has made some changes. 
For one, Lowery is back at quarterback after quitting for a year when he got tired of the constant pounding from Morton's veery offense. One of last year's quarterbacks, Lionell Crawford, is now a wide receiver. And last year's mon­ster back, Rafael Robinson, is now the No. 1 tailback. 
When asked if he was left with bare cupboards, Alvarez said yes and no. 
"In some areas it's bare but there is talent on this team. The offensive line has a chance to be as good as most I've been around. And our secondary has a chance to be excellent," Alvarez said. 
"But at fullback, we don't have one. If Kevin Ellison (initially a linebacker) is not the fullback, we're going to have to reach into our bag of tricks," said Alvarez. The 6-foot, 222­pound Ellison, a sophomore, sat out last season for academic reasons. 
The offensive line that could be good is already one thing-big. The tackles are 6-foot-8, 285-pound Brady Pierce and 6­6, 277-pound David Senczyszyn, the guards 6-3, 273-pound Jim Basten and 6-4, 
321-pound Nick Polczinski and the center 6-3, 265-pound Rick Godfrey.The secondary returns Eddie Fletcher, Greg Thomas, LaMarr White and Troy Vincent. 
Linebackers Brendan Lynch  
and Malvin Hunter are back  
and so are defensive tackles  
Dan Batsch and Don Davey.  
Davey, a three-time Academic  
All-American, already has  
earned his bachelor's degree in  
mechanical engineering and  
will be working in a master's  
program this fall. At 6-4, 270  
pounds, Davey is rated by  
Alvarez as one of the Big Ten's  
best linemen.  
"We're just real hungry to  
win,' said Davey.  
"Coach Alvarez comes out as  
a big disciplinarian. He's real  
strict. Certain things are going  
to be done his way. He's in  
charge.  
"We want this kind of leader­ 
ship and this kind of discipline.  
We've had guys who've been  
getting up at 6 a.m. all summer  
long to work out. The guys  
want to be pushed like that."  
Alvarez is not expecting a  
perfect season, but he wants his  
team to play to its potential and  
not settle for mediocrity, a level  
Wisconsin hasn't reached for  
several years.  
"Our kids natural response is  
that they want to be 11-0. But  
let's be realistic," said Alvarez.  
"The national champions last  The Observer/File Photo  
year lost one game. We're not  Not all Notre Dame students can dunk like senior Derrick Johnson,  
the best team in the country,  but thousands participate each Spring in the campus-wide Bookstore  
obviously," he added.  Basketball tournament.  

"We have to teach them. 

There is going to come a point r-------------~--....------· 

in the game, probably the first 
have the opportunity to win, be it catching a ball or knocking down a pass. 




GOURMET BURGERS & ICE CREAM 
DO YOURSELF A FLAVOR 
3602 Grape Road ··Mishawaka, IN 

....:.:··:'lrsir; I
j , =::·, '.~c;!l ·-c:;;~a Tc!' :::c~c: '"~" _--~~~:~o~l?.s_ 
r-"~ Ediscn 




Saturday, August 25, 1990 The Observer page 23 
MENUS CROSSWORD 
Sunday 

Notre Dame 
Saint Mary's

Chicken Noodle Soup 
Chicken Patty Sandwich 

Roast Top Sirloin of Beef 
Spicy Beef Melt 

Baked Cajun Roughy 
Monterey Bake 

Cheese Lasagna 
French Toast 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



31 Ravel 56 Playroom composition locale? 

ACROSS 
1 Kind of sch. 
58 New Jersey five32 Receiver,

4 Fossil fuel 59 Sixth-century
frequently a Fam. member date
35 Fathers? 
60 "Bus Stop"11 Pub quaffs 37 Manipulate playwright13 Kemelman's fraudulently 61 U.S.N.A. graddetective 38 Drifts 62 "Wisdom is 

14 Gael 
40Sialom --":Swift 15 Player's place? obstacles 63A Kennedy 17 Salinger girl 42 Yellowish tan 18 Alligator pear 43 England's -­
DOWN

19 Fourth Estate? of Court 1 Puccini's "-­
21 "The quality of 44 Architecture --...": Shak. critic Huxtable 
Butterfly" etal. 
2 Cricket team22 Measure of 3 Cause of gout?

thread fineness 48 Occurrences 4Roman
23 Kitty sweller 50 Parisian pupil statesman24 Hooks' partners 51 Coney Island 
5 Ben (--Wan)
attractions?

26Washed 
Kenobi in "Star 29 Hogarth's "The Wars"
53 Nostrum --Progress" 55 Tennis score 6 Dwelling places 1 Irish export 8 Waiter? ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Charitable gift 10 Salt Lake City team 12 Pele's sport 13 Disencumber 14 Food named for a goddess 16 Utter 20 Covered with 
33 Org. opposing 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I 1\\1"\( 8K;E.BI>.U-. 1'5 1\\t. 
MO~T BeRING GAME IN THE 'riOR,LO. t't£. B£rn Sifo..~~ING OOT HERE IN DEEP Lt.IT F\U.D 
A.l.l. ~IS TIM£:, A,~() NOT~ 
SINGlE BALL W..S c.oME OVT ~£Rt! 
I 
~~ 
'~~1. 

~crufo..LL'I, I S\l~ 11\fo..iS JUST AS WELL. I I)()N'T KNOW 'f'IHft.,.l Bl\s£ -ro nl~ iCl AN'IW,to.t IN ~1\CT, l't~ NOT E'ltlll S\JR£ t CAA iHRoYl 
mAT FAR. 
\ 
-~~ 
.T~ 
II :
~·· 
'lo!B..L. I'to'\ S\JR£. ~t.Ot\£ 'tiOOL\) \Hl \A£ I~ I. ~t>S 'SWPOSU> TO Bt. \)0\"G­
A~'H\\I~G U\~9\1. 
I~ 
lJJ 
..I\,· \'~'! l/tf I· 
-


so Compass pt. 51 Andersen or 
Borge 52 Perfect place 53 Paris's Rue de Ia 


fine hair gun-control 22 Omens? laws 24 Stretches the 34 Superior 
budget qualities? 25 Affirmative 36 Japanese epic 21 "-tu," Verdi film 
aria 39 Pulitzer-winning 28 Briard or 
biographer: Basenji 1933 and 1937 
BILL WATTERSON SPELUNKER 

satisfaction 

47 Picasso's "Dora 54"-was going Maar-" to St. lves" 
49 Canio's wife 57 Kind of bk. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75~ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 


Those ofus here at the Student Union &ard would like to extend a sincere WELCOME to the Class of1994. Notre Dame/Saint Mary's CoUege is indeed a specialplace! 
We would also like to Welcome back everyone returningfrom a very short summer! We've got an intense year awaiting us since SUB has been busy making arrangementsfor this year's line-up ofbig name entertainment. 
However, in orderto start this year offright, An Tostal, ND/SMC's annual spring 
festiva~ is sponsoring THE SHIRT, an event whereby the entire student body wiU show our Fightin~ Irish unity/support by wearing a keUy green T-shirt to the Notre Dame vs. Michigan FootbaUgame on September 15th. See thefuU page ad in this issue ofThe Obseroerfor details on howyou can become an integralpart ofanother fanaticalyear ofNotre Dame Footba/U 
.. 
....
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------~-----------­
Sports
page 24 Saturday, August 25, 1990 
Holtz barraged with questions about steroid article 

Observer Staff Report 
A picture of a smug but cuddly Lou Holtz on Thursday's cover of The National is hardly indicative of his mood since the words "Notre Dame" and "steroids" started appearing together in newsprint through­out the country five days ago. 
The headline reads: "What about it, Lou?" 
It may be the sports question of the week. The extent of the Notre Dame football team's use of steroids has been a national topic ever since former Irish lineman Steve Huffman wrote a first-person account for Sports Illustrated about his playing days at Notre Dame and his in­volvement with Head Coach Holtz. 
In the article, Huffman criti­cized Holtz for his coaching practices and accused the team of widespread steroid use. 
This claim has sent Holtz, Notre Dame football players and the university's administrators denying allegations of wrongdoing but admitting that five players have tested positive for steroids since 1987. 

And when those steroids were found, Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal said, the university "undertook the appropriate disciplinary ac­tions." 
"None of the five players who had positive tests were permit­ted to compete in games while steroids were in their systems," Rosenthal said in a prepared statement. "In addition, the Notre Dame football squad has appeared in three consecutive postseason contests at which time the NCAA also conducted its own independent drug test­ing program. 
"No Notre Dame athlete has ever been found to test posi­tively by the NCAA." 
And there it is. The word of one backup center versus the reputation of a respected col­legiate football program, yet Sports Illustrated ran the story 

Steve Huffman 
in its Aug. 27 issue without giv­ing Notre Dame a chance to re­spond. 
The magazine paid the dis­gruntled Huffman $5,000 for his story, in which he detailed his disappointing football ca­reer at Notre Dame and ac­cused nearly half the football lettermen of using steroids. 
Huffman quit the team in 1987 after a private meeting with Holtz, and in Holtz's book 


k
II" 
II 
I ! ~ 
H 
i\ 

Notre Dame Sports Information Sophomore QB Rick Mirer will be the focal point of the Notre Dame offense as he replaces Tony Rice, who graduated last spring. The Irish are expected to throw the ball more with Mirer calling the signals. 
Notre Dame Football Capsule 
Conference: Independent 
Nickname: Fighting Irish 
Colors: Blue and Gold 
Stadium: Notre Dame Stadium (capacity 59,075) 
Coach: Lou Holtz ( 37-11 in four seasons at Notre Dame, 153-76-5 in 20 seasons overall) 
1989 Recap: 12-1, 21-6 victory over Colorado in Orange Bowl. The only loss was a 27-10 defeat at Miami 
Lettermen lost: 21 
Lettermen returning: 4 7 
The Captains: Todd Lyght, Mike Heldt, Ricky Watters, Chris Zorich 
Starters Lost: QB Tony Rice, FB Anthony Johnson, OG Tim Grunhard, OT Dean Brown, OT Mike Brennan, DT Jeff Alm, LB Ned Bolcar, CB 

Lou Holtz 
Stan Smagala, FS Pat Terrell, SS D'Juan Francisco, SE Pat Eilers 
Starters Returning: TB/SE Ricky Watters, FL Raghib Ismail, TE Derek Brown, OG Tim Ryan, C Mike Heldt, NT Chris Zorich, DT Bob Dahl, LB Donn Grimm, LB Scott Kowalkowski, DE Andre Jones, DE Devon McDonald, CB Todd Lyght, P/K Craig Hentrich, K Bill Hackett 
Face to Watch: Sophomore . QB Rick Mirer, who will replace Irish standout Tony Rice 
Others to Watch: LB Michael Stonebreaker, TB Tony Brooks and DT George Williams return after missing all of 1989 
Opening Game: Sept. 15 vs. Michigan 
1990 Schedule: Sept. 15 vs. Michigan, Sept. 22 at Michigan State, Sept. 29 vs. Purdue, Oct. 6 vs. Stanford, Oct. 13 vs. Air Force, Oct. 20 vs. Miami, Oct. 27 at Pittsburgh, Nov. 3 at Navy, Nov. 10 at Tennessee, Nov. 17 vs. Penn State, Nov. 24 at Southern California 

"A Championship Season at Notre Dame," Holtz singled out Huffman as an example of a quitter. 
"I deserve my turn," Huffman wrote. "I'm entitled to a rebut­tal." 
Summaries of this rebuttal hit the wires immediately, and stories damaging to Notre Dame appeared in sports pages around the country. Sports Illustrated actually sent co­writer Rick Telander to Notre Dame last Saturday to confront Holtz with the allegations, and Holtz denied them. 
Undaunted, the magazine ran the story without any response from Holtz or any Notre Dame official. 
"We are saddened and deeply troubled by the baseless and erroneous article that appeared in Sports Illustrated," said Rosenthal. "We believe that printing this article with abso­lutely no chance for Notre Dame to participate or respond to the false charges is unfair, unprofessional and journalisti­cally irresponsible." 
Holtz denied any involvement with steroids, save for discour­aging them. 
"I think I've done everything I can to deter the use of drugs, both street drugs as well as steroids," said Holtz. 
In a telephone interview with the South Bend Tribune, Huffman responded to all de­nials by using a line from his brother Tim, who played foot­ball at Notre Dame under Dan Devine from 1977-80. 
"He (Tim) said, 'It was like turning on a light late at night and seeing the cockroaches scramble,'" said Huffman. 
Two days after Huffman's accusations were made public, the story broke Thursday in The National that Holtz broke NCAA rules while coaching at Minnesota, that his relationship with administrators at Notre Dame was strained and that he 
see STEROIDS/page 15 
Irish fall athletes ready to kick off 1990 campaign 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame's 1990 fall sports schedule will begin soon as the Irish volleyball and soccer teams will return to action by Sept. 2 and the cross country teams will begin competing on Sept. 15. With the new season comes a sense of optimism for Notre Dame's athletes and their coaches as they begin the fall with a clean slate. 
The Irish volleyball team will try to rebound from a 1989 campaign which saw Coach Art Lambert's squad struggle to its first losing record since 1985 against a murderous schedule. Notre Dame finished 14-17 a year ago, but will try to improve on that mark as five starters return to the lineup and a talented freshman class will provide support. 
Once again, though, a difficult schedule which begins Aug. 31 at the Washington State Invitational in Pullman, Wash., could block the Irish road to success. Included among Notre Dame's 1990 opponents are 20 teams which earned top 20 rankings at some point last season, and 10 teams which participated in last season's NCAA Tournament. 
Traditional powers Penn State, Illinois, LSU and Colorado all will visit the Joyce ACC this fall, and the Irish will travel to Texas, Pittsburgh and Minnesota as well. The Soviet Junior National Team will also appear at the Joyce ACC on Oct. 4 in its annual tour of the United States. 
"Once again, we have a pretty rough schedule." Lambert said. "I'm pleased with the home matches we were able to put together. I feel it's one of the most attractive home schedules we've had in some time." 
The Notre Dame men's soccer 

team will play its first game 
under new head coach Mike 
Berticelli on Sept. 1 when 
Dayton visits Krause Stadium. 
Berticelli, who previously 
coached at Old Dominion, in­
herits a team which returns its 
top four scorers and finished 9­
6-3 last year. 
The Irish will look to sopho-

Art Lambert 

Kevin Pendergast 

more forward Kevin Pendergast to pick up where he left off last season when he led the team with 11 goals and 26 points. Senior goalkeeper Danny Lyons, who started all 18 games for Notre Dame last season and posted a 1.36 goals­against average, also returns. 
The Irish won their first ex­hibition match of the season Aug. 21 over Northern Illinois by a score of 2-1. Pendergast and fellow sophomore Jeff Rhodes scored for Notre Dame, which takes on Indiana in the Golden Boot Soccer Match to­day in Indianapolis. 
The final Irish tune-up before the ope·ner against Dayton will be an exhibition match versus Central Michigan on Aug. 29 against Central Michigan at Krause Stadium. 
"These are really practice games and they give us a chance to do the things we are working on every day against an opponent other than our­selves,M Berticelli said of the exhibition matches. "Any time 
see FALUpage 19 






