------~------------------------------------------------­

VOL. XXIII NO. 47 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1990 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Coats wins Senate seat 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) hopeful he would pull out a In deference to llill, Coats Hnpublican Dan Coats warded victory l'rom late returns in declined to declare victory but off' a surprisingly still' challenge Lake and Vanderburgh said he expected to return to l'rom Democratic challenger counties. the Senate seat he won by Baron Ifill to hold onto the U.S. appointment in 1989. Snnate seal hn inherited from "All the pundits told me I the vien prnsident. couldn't win this race even up "I promise I'll be a senator for 
With 7(J pnrcent of the to three or four days ago, but I all people, even those who precincts rnporting, Coats held still had something inside of' me didn't vote for me," Coats said. a 5:{ pPrcent to 4 7 percent lead that was telling me I was still Gov. Evan Bayh said of Hill: "I over II ill. going to win this race," Hill think he's eome a long long way 
Ifill rel'used to concede said. "I still have that inside of against uphill odds, and I think Tunsday night, rnmaining rne." he's got a lot to be proud of." 

Morris lecture to appear on local TV 
Special to The Observer Thnse spncial broadcasts of Morris' lecturn have been scheduled by Heritage 
"The Ethics of Everyday Life," Cablevision for the benefit of a lecture by Thomas Morris, the system's South Bend and associate professor of philoso­Mishawaka subscribers, who do phy at the University of Notre not receive The Learning Dame and 1990 Professor of the Chanfl(~l. Year in Indiana, will air Thursday, November 8, at 7 Morris received the state 
p.m. on Heritage Cablevision's Professor of the Year award in Channel 31. The program will September from the Coundl for be repeated Sunday, Nov. 18, at Advancement and Support of 10 p.m. Education. Since joining tlw 
Morris' lecture. the October Notre Dame faculty in 1980, he program in the "University has taught as many as 1,200 Lecture" series produced by the undergraduates a year, servt~d national cable network, The seven ynars as a director of the Learning Channel (TLC), was National Endowment for the taped Sept. 12 on the Notre Humanities !NEill summnr Dame campus. seminars for school teachers, 
The program features the and sptmt three years as a pro­lecture by Morris to a dass of fessor in the National undergraduates, plus an inter­Elderhostel summer program. view with him concerning his Morris has been awarded personal feelings about philos­NEll and Howard Foundation ophy and about the teaching research fellowships, and pub­profession. lished nine books, ineluding
Nintendo break 
University President Father "The Logir. of God Incarnate." Edward Malloy opens the pro­·"Philosophy and tlw Christian
Sophomore Remard Colston chooses a game of Nintendo football as his method of relaxation. Nintendo 
gram with a brief profile of the Faith," and "The Bluffer's Guide 
will have to substitute for lhe live version until Nov.17, when Penn State arrives to face the Irish. 
University. to Philosophy." 
Roemer leads Hiler 
Observer Staff Report 

challenger Tim Roemer. Due to a computer error at With 413 of 512 precincts election headquarters in reporting, Roemer had Elkhart County, the results gained 66,250 votes, or 55 of the congressional election per cent of the vote. Hiler for Indiana's Third District had gained 55,281 votes, of were not available at press 45 per cent of the vote. time. Hiler had faced strong John Hiler, R-LaPorte, was challenges during off-year attempting to win a sixth election throughout the 
consecutive term in the U.S. 1980s, winning by 47 votes House of Representatives. in the nation's closest con­His opponent was Democrat gressional race in 1986. 
Sloan: Catholic universities can support Great Books 
By COLLEEN GANNON 
News Writer 
Catholic highnr education can sustain a Grnat Books Program, said Profnssor Phillip Sloan, the chairman of thn Program in Liberal Studies, Tunsday in the lntnllectual Life Committee Forum. 
Instead of simply answering with "a rnsounding yns," to the qunstion of sustaining a Great Books Program in Catholic higlwr education, Sloan bngan by tracing three traditions in liberal education. 
Thn humanistic tradition stmssed the enriehmnnt of the citizen. Sloan said. On the other hand, aceording to Sloan. the philosophical tradition, as ex­emplified by Plato and Aristotle, pnrct~ived liberal arts as only prnparatory and incomplete in thernselvns. The nnlightnnment tradition strt~ssed a liberating education that frees the mind from prej ud iees. 
In modern limns. Sloan said, liberal education combines all three of thnsn traditions. According to Sloan, a primary dnfinition of liberal education ineludes, "critical awareness, fmedom from prejudices, non­dogmatic thinking." 
At the core qf the program is the seminar, i1e said. At the seminar, tutors are "not present to provide right answers." 
The program brought to Notre Dame "the idea of read­ing primary sources by students directly in an open seminar at­mosphere, where the teacher was considered a fellow discus­sant, not a guide," Sloan said. 
While claims have been made that Great Books members are elitist, Sloan said, "the origin of the seminar was highly not eli­tist in its intent." He further added. that it was a "boldly democratic experiment." In many respects, the distinction between teacher and student is abolished in the seminar's at­mosphere. 
"The program's students and faculty are just as likely to be involved with liberal politics as with conservative," Sloan said. 
The Great Books program has 
see BOOKS I page 7 


---------------~----~-~------------------------------~--------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Save your insults; give us your input 
I was sitting in class 
yesterday and my profess'or was com­menting on the gen­eral writing skills of the class, or the lack thereof. He told the class that in order to 

write well they O';~ght Colleen Cronin 
to read magazmes 
and newspapers that Accent Editor are written well. which is an excellent idea. He then pro­ceeded to qualify that. 
"The Observer is not a model of good writing." I was appalled that a professor would make so callous and rude a remark. 
The Observer is a student newspaper-it is run entirely by students. There are no journalism professors looking over our shoulders. 
Notre Dame does not have a journalism department; in fact it offers no more than five "journalism" classes. So it is impossible for The Observer to limit itself to only em­ploying journalism students. Anyone who is interested in writing can do so. whether their major is engineering or American studies or anything in' between. 
The Observer staff. from the editors down to the reporters, are working with what they have learned on their own. Granted, some know more than others, but none of us knows it all. Some of us worked on high school newspapers, but not all of us. All of us are learning as we go along. 
That is what we are here at Notre Dame for. That is what· we are paying $16,000 a year for. 
We know the newspaper is not perfect­no newspapers are. Being "merely" a college newspaper, I suppose we have more faults than professional papers, but that is not an excuse to hold up The Observer as a general example of what not to do. 
One hell of a lot of work goes into these pages Monday through Friday, and all that work is usually at the expense of free time and sleep. No one at The Observer receives credit hours for their work, so everyone carries a full load of classes which includes a full load of reading, papers, and other sorts of homework. 
Many of the people intend to pursue writ­ing as a career and therefore treat their po­sition as seriously as an internship. I am not complaining, though. If I hated the situ­ation I would not continue to put all this time into it. 
Professors are here to teach the students and help them out, but comments such as the one that my professor made are coun­terproductive. We know th~t by putting out a newspaper for everyone to read we are holding ourselves up for scrutiny and com­ments, both good and bad. 
But instead of shunning the paper, and encouraging others to do the same, why not offer constructive criticism and help us im­prove it? 



Ihe Obset:Ver_. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Tuesday's  Staff  
Production  News  Ad  Design  
Wendy Cunningham Ann Buff  Carolyn Amann Paul Pearson  Kelly McHugh Cara Eckman  
Mike Owens  Kerry Clair  
Viewpoint  Maria Blohm  
Julie Shepherd Kathy Welsh  Accent Paige A. Smoron John Fischer  Mario Siguenza Bob Slobotnik Jean-Philipe Thole  
Scoreboard  Melissa Cusack  
Rolando de Aguiar Systems Mark Sloan Mike Murphy  Circulation Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak  Sports Scott Brutacao Graphics Michael Muldoon  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 7. Lines show high temperatures. 

Yesterday's High: 55 
40 
60 
Yesterday's Low: 3 9 
Nation's High: 86 
(Fort Myers, Fla.) Nation's Low: 8 (Sioux Falls, S.D.) 
Forecast: Mostly cloudy and very cool today with a 30 percent chance of showers. The high will be in the middle 30s. Mostly cloudy and cold tonight with a low in the lower 30s. Continued cloudy 

~~P~ffi-~-u-ffi------------------------~------~ andco~tomorrowwrtha 
® © ~ ~ m t:h :j 0 t---d 1:)-~ ~ 30 percent chance of ~H-~_H__L_o_w__s_~_w_E_R_s__R_N_N_r_~_r_o_R_M_s_R_u_R_R_E_s_s_N_o_w__t_cr__s_u_N_N_Y_P_r_c_w_u_o_Y_c_L_o_u_o_Y~:~::~~~ah~in~e 
OF INTEREST 
"Effective Interviewing Workshop" will Saint Mary's Pre-Health Professions Club be held this evening in the Foster Roon, LaFortune will be holding a meeting Thursday. Nov. 8, at 5 p.m. in Student Center from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. The workshop will Room 286 of the Science Hall. All majors are welcome. cover the types of questions typically asked during an Questions, call Melissa 273-9270 or Kim 284-5235. interview. The workshop is open to students of any major. 
Young women who would like to come together Make-up placement Exams for French and to share, pray, and discern whether they're being called to Spanish will be given on Friday, November 9. For a religious life are invited to join a Discernment Group. information, call 239-6886 or stop by the Romance For more information call Sisters of Holy Cross Languages Office. membership office M-W-F, 8 a.m.-4:30p.m. at 284-4466. Ask for either Sr. Marilyn Zugish, CSC or Sr. Patricia Riley, esc. 
Christmas Around the World '90 The CILA Wednesday Meeting will be in organizational meeting will be held today at 7:30 p.m. in conjunction with O.D.N. this week. A $3 dinner at the the Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune. Questions? 
C.S.C. will begin at 5 p.m. followed by a lecture at 6 p.m. Call Karen or David, Student Activities Office, 239-7308. 
WORLD 
King Hussein of Jordan 
_,...,..._ Officials in Soviet Georgia have decided to warned that "no one will leave a move Wednesday's Revolution Day military parade from winner" from a war in the Persian the streets of the republic's capital of Tbilisi to a field on Gulf and said Monday he fears armed an army base, Tass reported Monday. The decision in the conflict might be imminent. The southern republic, where non-Communists have just Jordanian monarch made his remarks scored a big electoral victory, marked the latest blow to during an interview with Radio France the once-sacred holiday and a further erosion of the International in Paris before meeting Communist Party's role in society. The holiday marks the with President Francois Mitterrand. anniversary of the 1917 Bolshevik Hevolution. At least The king told RFI that nations contributing to the two officially sanctioned counterdemonstrations by anti­multinational force in the gulf are beginning to rethink Communist groups are being held this year in Moscow, the possibility of war in the world's largest oil-producing with the protesters urging a "day of mourning" for peo­region. He named no specific nations. Asked if he thought ple killed by the totalitarian regime. war was imminent, Hussein responded: "If it's going to happen, it will be very imminent. But I don't wish it." 
NATIONAL A man sought in the stabbing deaths of his four Sen. Bob Dole said Monday that he and 
young nieces and nephews surrendered to authorities other key congressional leaders have been given special Monday. Henry Curtis Jackson Jr. also allegedly wounded mobile telephones so the White House can keep them his sisters and two other nieces in the attack Thursday at informed of developments in the Persian Gulf. Dole, the his mother's home near the north-central Mississippi Kansas Hepublican and Senate minority leader, said he town of Greenwood. Jackson, 26, went to police in his and at least four other lawmakers have had the phones hometown of West Point, about 90 miles east of for about a week. The others, he said, are Democratic Greenwood, on Monday morning. "He admitted the Sen. Gem;ge Mitchell of Maine, the Senate majority leader; killings," said Danny Banks, Itta Bena police chief who House Speaker Thomas Foley, D-Washington; and House 
accompanied Leflore County officers interview Jackson.  to West Point to  leaders Heps. Hobert Gephardt, D-Missouri.  Michel, R-Illinois, and  Richard  
INDIANA  ---........-.~:. .~~ ~ . .....'.. . MARKET UPDATE  -~jWf 4iilll ALMANAC  

e In 1917: Russia's Bol­
Olga Korbut, who won America's 
shevik Hevolution took place asheart as a gold-medal winning gymnast in the forces led by Vladimir Lenin1972 Olympics, came to Indianapolis on another overthrew the provisional gov­mission Monday. The Soviet champion accepted a 

Volume in shares 

ernment of Alexander Keren­gift of cancer-fighting drugs from Eli Lilly and sky.
Co. to be used to treat children who were victims 141.13Million 
e In 1918: During World
of the Chernobyl accident. Korbut was appearing in her role as an honorary spokeswoman for the War I, an erroneous report from the United Press that anEmergency Help for Children Foundation. The 
NYSE Index 

armistice had been signed setChernobyl accident was the worst to occur at a 
170.21 v 1.28 

off celebrations across thecommercial nuclear installation. On April 26, 
S&P Composite 

country.
1986, a chemical explosion at the plant caused a 
311.62 {7 2.97 

e In 1967: Carl Stokes wasreactor to melt down. A cloud of radiation spread 
Dow Jones Industrials 

elected the first black mayor ofmore than 1,000 miles. 
2485.15 v17.08 

a major city-Cleveland, Ohio. e In 1973: Congress over­
Precious Metals 

rode President Nixon's veto of 
Gold {}$3.10 to$381.10/oz. 

the War Powers Act, which 
limits a chief executive's power to wage war without congres­sional approval. 
Silver {} 4.0¢ to $4.227/oz. 


APPhoto

Walked out 
Ousted Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto walks out of the new Parliament on Saturday, after her husband Asif Ali Zardan was not allowed to attend the swearing in ceremony. 
HPC investigates business proposal of Student Senate 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 
The Hall l'rnsidnnts' Council (II PC) rt~vi PWPd tlw Stud n n t SPnctte proposal rngarding stu­dent businesses and was in­l'ornwd ol' upcoming fund raisers during its mtwting last night. 
Student Senator Lisa Bostwick presented th1~ Senate proposal as "a mnans to set up sonw sort of probation for stu­dPnt businesses who run large losses." The constitutional amnndment would allow for the probation of student businessns with net losses over $2000. The proposal is open-ended to allow for the regulation of businesses with extremely poor business practices as well, according to Bostwick. 
Two upcoming fund raising twm1ts were announced to the council: the Late Night Olympics and Thanksgiving food baskets. 
Sally DerPngoski, assistant director of Non-Varsity Athletics, announced that the annual Late Night Olympics, to benefit St. Joseph's County Special Olympics, would take place on February 1, 1991. l>nrengoski hopns that. the pro­gram will raise over $2500 for the caust~. 
Paul Hadich of the World Hunger Coalition said that the group will onee again sponsor Thanksgiving food baskets. Money from students will be collected during masses on November 18. It will be used to buy and distribute groceries to the needy. Those interested in helping with the production should contact Ann Buff. 
In other business: 
• 
Joe Cassidy announced the sale of heavyweight sweatshirts fashioned after the Miami game "the Cause" T-shirts. Students can order the $30 sweatshirts at the information desk before November 12. 

• 
Sorin llall President Jim Joyce said that it has been re­quested that students do not play football on the quads in front of Sorin and Alumni Halls in order to reduce that damage to the grass on the main quad. 



------------------.., 
The Observer page 3 
-

Mcinerny discusses faith, reason 

By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
News Writer 
"Today it is the Catholic Church that is the defendPr of reason." argued professor of Philosophy Halph Mcinerny at Tuesday's lecture concerning the relationship of faith and philosophy. 
Mcinerny outlined three pos­sibilities for the relationship of faith and philosophy, the last of which was the basis of his talk. "Faith is a positive aspect to philosophizing," claimed Mcinerny. as opposed to a hin­drance or an entirely separate state of mind. lie also empha­sized that religious belief is not a substitute for philosophy. 
"The believing lin Godl philosopher does not seriously entertain that an air tight ar­gument for the nonexistence of God can be formulated," added Mcinerny. He continued to de­scribe an 'animal faith' that one brings to philosophy. 
Mcinerny referred to Descartes' process of reasoning to exemplify his idna of an 'animal faith.' Descartes con­cludnd that he existed merely because he could conternplatn his existence and so Mcinerny believes that any person brings certain similar bnliefs into phi­losophy-such as a belief in God. 
Mcinerny shownd a concern for the celebration of reason present in Descartes' time which is absent now. "We live in a time which has been charac­terized by Allister McEntire as a time of Universal lmmotivism," Mcinerny said. lie continued to define Universal lrnrnotivism as the belief that all moral judgments arc only personal opinions. 
Mcinerny expressed hope declaring that "Today it is the Catholic Church that is the main defender of reason." lie also added that there seems to be no other outspoken source of morality other than the Catholic Church. 
Mcinerny described two de­terminants of morality for the Christian: scripture and tradi­tion, and natural law. lie com­mented on such issues as abor­tion. fornication, and homo­sexuality, coneluding that "these can be seen by natural reason to bn wrong." 
"This is a unique claim in tlw contemporary world that you and me can forget about rnve­lation, can forget about the sanctions of the church. We can figme out by appeal to objective criteria what is right and what is wrong." 
Mcinerny concluded by reit­erating the importance of the Catholic Church in the study of philosophy. lie lnft his listeners at St. Edward's llall with the question, "Who other than the church is concerned with the defense of human reason?" 



Faculty talk about insura~ce 
B KATE MANUEL NY w ·1 
ews ner 
The fact that insurance claims were only 84 per cent of premiums in the past year is good news for the university and for faculty members. ac­cording to a guest presentation that followed the routine committee reports at Tuesday's meeting of the Faculty Senate. 
Roger Mullins, Director of Human Resources, told Faculty Senate members, "We did have a relatively good year with health insurance. Claims were 84 per cent of premiums which 
is really good news. There's going to be a 12 per cent in­crease in premiums: 12 per cent for the university and 12 per cent for the premium holders." 
Although premiums will be going up in the next year, there is still good news in the fact that premiums exceeded claims. according to Mullins. He said "If claims exceeded prcmiu~s. it is conceivable that J'd be telling you that claims would go up 25 to 40 per cent. We all should recognize that health insurance, health costs 
are going ~o ?~l ~P· . As poss1bl11tlcs for kecpmg
lh" · · 

heat 1ns_urance premiUms down, .Mullms and senate ~e~­hers d1scussed several posslbth­ties inducting: 
•networking 
and dirnctly con­tracting with a hospital to pro­vide health care 

•putting 
p~essure on Blue Cross/Blue Sh1eld to keep costs down . 

•self-insurance 
by the umver­sity or a consortium of univer­sities 

•putting 
yressures on health care provtders themselves to keep costs down and 

•forming 
a coalition with South Btmd businesses or with other Indiana colleges and uni­versities. 


URKEY SHOOT 
TARGET SHOOTING 
Wednesday, November 7, at 7:30 and 8:00 

CONTEST 

p.m. If you have not used DART before, be 

NOVEMBER 13&14 
sure to see it at one of these times. Dean 
STADIUM RIFLE RANGE CALL NVA FOR DETAILS 
Daniel H. Winicur will be present on both 

239-6100 

evenings to answer any questions you may have. 
Office of the Registrar 





DART VIDEO PRESENTATION 
A 1 0-minute video describing DART will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium (117 · Cushing Hall), on Tuesday, November 6 and 



~pia~giei4~........................................~~~~Th~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r~~~------------------------·w._e.d.ne·s·d·a~y·,·N·o·v·em._b.e•r•7i,i19i9i0• 

HURRAY FOR HOUTWOOD NEW TORI< srATE OF AfllvD 
F ltESHMAN FOAMA.L ]UNlOR. FORMAL NOVEMBER.10.1990
NOVEMBER.' 1''0 DINN lNG H A.LL

9p.M. -JG.Jtt.. 

HAGGAR. PAR.LOlt BOOGIE AT THE BARN r'f::;;;~::ii1
Ti.d.eU fHJ $Gle NH. 7~BU UJ. all SOPHOMORE FORMAL COME AND EXPERIENCE THE ru«Uaa Ull«Jbiu /rom 4:30 -6:30 
( 
NOV EMBEA166 1''0 NEW TOAKSTA.TE OF MIND!
/fW OfWy $10. 

9p.m.. -1a.m.. BlJSES LEAVE AT 8:30 
FltOM O'LAlJGHLIN CIRCLE T«Aus fHJ SGk NH. 76 B6 12. 136 ~lk-.11 ift. all~ .klll«Jbiu 
/-Nm 7-.,... 

! 
Election '90 
~ 

Ran om call AP Pholo President George Bush prepares to make a random phone call to Malissia Johnson in Houston to en­courage her to vote Republican in the upcoming election. President Bush made the call from Clayton William's phone bank. William's went on to lose the gubenatorial race to Democrat Ann Richards. 
•

Hogsett WinS secretary race 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Democratic Secretary of State Joseph Hogsett appeared headed to victory over Republican challenger William Hudnut early Wednesday in one of the closest statewide elections in recent history. 
Hogsett had 580,840 votes, or 
51.7 percent, to Hudnut's 542,248, or 48.3 percent, with about 78 percent of the state's precincts reporting. 
"While we're not out of the woods yet, if these trends continue I'm confident the morning will bring us victory in 
When you party remerllber to... 
Don"t).\et 11 reeked. If vou·n· not soher-or I'Ol(re not surl'­let someonl' l'lse do the dnl'ing 
.\ llll"'a~e pr01 tded h1 tit" "''"'l"'l'''r aJIIIIkt·r I Jnnkt·r, ol \uwnc1 
.~··~ * * 


~ * 
* ~ 
BEER DRINKERS 
OF AMERICA 
Ji\Rn •SM \Rl 

the race for secretary of state," Hogsett told supporters at about 12:20 a.m. 
Gov. Evan Bayh, Hogsett's political mentor, joined the secretary of state at the Democratic rally, lifting Hogsett's arm in triumph. Bayh's wife, Susan, embraced and kissed Hogsett. 
Earlier, Hudnut, the four-term mayor of Indianapolis, expressed hope of pulling out a victory. 
"It looks as though we're going to the wee hours of the morning before we know who 
God gives each persononelifetime. What are you doingwithyours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available . 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
won," Hudnut told supporters about 10:45 p.m. Tuesday. "We still have hopes we can win this thing." 
Hogsett, appointed to his office when Bayh left it to become governor, has said for months the election could be one of Indiana's closest ever in a statewide race. 
Hudnut had enjoyed sizeable leads in early polls this year, but the margin steadily shrunk as Hogsett put on a multimillion-dollar advertising blitz. 
Nine Hoosier Congress members win re-election 
(AP)-Nine of Indiana's 10 U.S. House members won re­election Tuesday, but GOP incumbent John Hiler was trailing in incomplete 3rd District returns delayed by a computer glitch. 
Hiler was behind Democratic challenger Tim Roemer by 11,000 votes, with only one­quarter of the heavily Republican Elkhart County precincts counted. 
Hiler has faced strong chal­lenges during off-year elections throughout the 1980s, winning by 47 votes in the nation's clos­est congressional race in 1986. 
Elkhart County Republican Chairman Roy Rogers said the county's vote-tallying comput­ers were rejecting an undeter­mined number of correctly punched ballots. Rogers said the final count could be delayed until Wednesday. 
Democrat Jim Jontz won re­election in the 5th District, de­feating Valparaiso businessman John Johnson in what had been projected as the state's closest race for Congress. 
The state's two senior-most congressmen won re-election, extending House careers that began in the 1960s. 
Democrat Lee Hamilton de­feated Scottsburg plastics engineer Floyd Coates for a third time in southern Indiana's 9th District. Hamilton has held the seat since 1964. 
In the 7th District, Republican John Myers defeated 
THE DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS AT GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY LAW CENTER WILL BE MEETING WITH STUDENTS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN LAW SCHOOL WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14,1990 AT 1:00 & 2:00 P.M. 
SIGN UP IN CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES HESBURGH LIBRARY 
Democratic challenger John Riley to capture a 13th term from the west central Indiana district. 
Democrat Jill Long, who won Vice President Dan Quayle's former House seat last year in a special election, defeated Baptist minister Richard Hawks of Fort Wayne in the 4th District. 
Democratic incumbent Phil Sharp beat Indianapolis attor­ney Michael Pence for a second time in the 2nd District. Sharp has held the seat since 197 4. 
In southwest Indiana, Democratic incumbent Frank McCloskey defeated GOP nomi­nee Hichard Mourdock of Evansville, a geologist and vice president of Vigo Coal Co. 
Hepublican Dan Burton, whose 6th District includes heavily Republican northern Indianapolis and its suburbs, beat Democrat James Fadely to win a fifth term. 
In Indianapolis' 1Oth District, Democrat Andrew Jacobs Jr. defeated Republican Janos Horvath, a Butler University economics professor, to keep the seat he first won in 1964 and has held continuously since 1972. 
Peter Visclosky beat former GOP state senator William Costas to retain the 1st District seat from northwest Indiana. Costas, a grocery store owner, failed in a 1986 challenge against Visclosky. 

Wednesday, November 7, 1990 
The Observer a e 5 
Election '90 

lt\1')-I>Prnorrats wrnstnd gov1~rtwrships from ttw (;()p in TPxas, Florida and four other statPs on Ttwsday in midtnrm PIPrtions that sPaled a snason of HPpublkan disappointnwnl. 
TlwrP was littlP good news for ttw COP. Tlw hPst of it was in Ohio, wherP (;eorgn Voinovirh won a 1>1~moeratie govPrnorship, and in Coruwctkut when~ (;ary Franks lwcanw tlw first black llouse HPpuhlicar. since 1935. John l·:ngler IPd Democratic Gov. .James Blanchard in a Miehigan surprise. 
Former Sen. Lowell Weieker vexed the GOP, this time as an outsidnr. lie won an indepen­dent bid for governor of Connecticut. Vermont sent Soeialist Bernie Sanders to the llousP -in place of a Hnpublir.an. 
In Florida, fo rnw r Sen. Lawton Chiles won handily over lirst-tPrm Hepublican Gov. Bob Martinez and Democrat Neil llartigan was alwad in his bid to succeed Illinois. Hepublican Gov . .James Thompson. 
The GOP hoped for victories in statehouse races that would protect their influence in draw­ing boundaries for House seats that will shift to the Sun Belt in 1992. 

Take A 
Commercial 



Break... 
With alums from the In the Notre Dame Room. Media Department at the Morris Inn for a 
Leo Burnett Company. preview of a media career Please tune in on in Advertising. Wednesday, November 7, 1990 All students welcome. at 6:00p.m. 

Helms retains U.S. Senate spot 
WASIIINGTON lAP) Democrats on Tuesday won two mon~ years in control of the Senate as incumbents showed tlwir strength. In the most closely watched contest. consnrvativn Sen. .l11ssn llnlms triumplwd in his battle against D11mocrat llarv11y Gantt in North Carolina. 
Democrats were assured at least 51 seats, another Senate majority, aftnr results showed 15 of their 16 incumbents had won, including several who had been targeted by the GOP. 
Hepublican incumbents also showed strength, however, and the GOP lwld all three snats where its senators were rntiring. 
Democrats had hoped to improve on their 55-45 majority anywhere they could, but especially in North Carolina. They were disappointed, and llelms rubbed it in. 
"There is no joy in Mudville tonight," the 69-year-old senator said. "The mighty ultra-

liberal establishment, the liberal politicians and editors and commentators and columnists have struck out again." 
Democrats also pushed for a piek-up in Oregon. But early returns showed Hepublican Mark llatlield. who has served four t11rms, outdistancing businessman and scientist Harry Lonsdale, who tapped into voter discontent and made it a dose race. 
Another down-to-thn-wire contest was in Minnesota, when~ Hepublican Hudy Boschwitz was in a battle with liberal Democrat Paul Wnllstone. In llawaii. Demoerat Daniel Akaka was dnl"ending himself against a strong challenge from Hep. Pat Saiki. 
The race between llelrns and Gantt captured national attention not only because it was close, but because the candidates represent such extremes. 
Helms is a national symbol of right-wing politics and tlw Senate's most di1~hard opporwnt to civil rights legislation. lldms ran campaign ads accusing Gantt, who is hlark, of favoring racial quotas and taking advantage of minority­preference rules for personal gain. 
Gantt is an unapologetic liberal and raeial trailblazPr, the first black admitted to Clemson Univnrsity. During tlw campaign, hn blanwd IIPirns for the poor state of North Carolina !Hhrration and thn state's environnwntal problems. 
Polls wl'rn kept open latn in heavily black Durham County aft!'r voting machirws thnrn b r o k ~~ down . Both s i d 11 s complairwd of irregularities. 
Anotlwr race with strong ideological differences was in Iowa, whern lilwral Tom Ilarkin becanw tlw first Democrat in that state ever rn-eleetnd to the Senate. lie lwat Hnp. Tom Tauke. a conservative, pro-life Hepublican. 

How to start your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance ofbeing accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for 
information and class starting dates. The 
Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the 
one pre-law course that determines the 
course of your law career. 
~(e~~\ 
!
c:,f>-~ 
00 

1-\\\. ~f.J"' (\.'i> · KAPLAN
C;, \ C;,'--a;
C\'3-9 STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTERtTD. 
DONT COMPETE WITI1 A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 [. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 Phone 219/272-4135 
Wednesday, November 7, 1990
page 6 The Observer 
ND Business College establishes business communication center 
By VALLI VAIRAVAN 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Center for Business Communication has been established by the College of Business Administration. 
According to James O'Rourke, director of the Center, the main focus of the Center is to provide instruction in writing and speaking in the business school. 
"All Notre Dame students get help with writing and speaking in their freshman year courses but [after this] the amount of help is very uneven for students of different majors, such as English majors and business majors... junior and senior business students are not get­ting help with writing," said O'Rourke. 
In the graduate business school, there has not been any program in writing and oral communication until now. O'Rourke said that several in­dependent studies reinforced the need for such a program. 
" Employers said repeatedly that among the most important skills for MBA students are writing and oral communica­tion, and not just at the entry level. .. in fact [these skills] are more important at mid-career." 
Currently, the Center, located in 110 Hurley Hall, is offering one undergraduate course, Business Communication. The course is taught by Eugene Fanning, an entrepreneur and businessman and who drives to Notre Dame once a week from Chicago to teach the course, said O'Rourke. O'Rourke indi­cated that by next fall, two Business Communication courses will be required of MBA students. 
Two other goals of the Busi­ness Communication Center, according to O'Rourke, are to do research and publications, and to provide assistance for all business students in the form of non-credit · workshops, seminars and small group in­teractions. 
O'Rourke hopes to gradually expand the program, and antic­ipates having three instructors by next fall. By establishing this Center, and acknowledging the importance of writing and ver­bal skills, "Notre Dame is in exclusive company among busi­ness schools," said O'Rourke. 




Want to feel this great about your frrst job? 
Ana Cruz Gonzalez Marketing Representative 

Exciting opportunities exist at IBM! 
IBM is recruiting 1990/91 graduates for openings in Programming, Engineering, and Technical Sales (BS/MS). 
Meet with IBM Managers at our Career Information Day Wednesday, November 14 
LaFortune-Notre Dame Room Noon-5pm 
There is no formal presentation, so feel free to stop by anytime during the event. Please bring 4 copies of your data sheet/resume and transcript, if available. Dress is casual. 
-~-.­
-..--­
_ _..._' -® 
An equal opportunity employer 
-~----------------------­
------------------~~ -~------~ 

Wednesday, November 7, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
Panel: Education needs to change 
By JAY STONE 
News Writer 
Tlw naturP of tlw aradnmic workplarP and tlw naturn of Pduralion still rwPd to chang1~. arrording to KatP llalischak. PXPrutivP of'firnr of tlu~ Notrn l>anw (;PndPr Sludins Program. 
llalisrhak, Kathin Nnwnwn, assoriatn profpssor of l'hysks, and C1•orgP lloward, profnssor of l'syrhology, romprisnd a parwl which disnrssnd "Wonwn In tlw AradPmy: Changes and ChaiiPngps" in thn llnsburgh Library l.oungP on TuPsday. 
Arrording to llalisdrak, who dtPd statistirs from llw Chilly ClimatP l'rojPrt On tlw Status and !':duration of Womnn, thn status of womPn in I'Prtain ar­Pas of aradPmia has improvnd slightly from I1J71-IIJIH,. 
In 11171, tlw numlw.r of l'hDs in tlw nation awardnd to womnn in tlw humanitins. the sorial and lwhavioral scinncns, math. and Pnginnnring wnrn 2:J.1J pPr rPnt. 17.2 pPr cnnt, 7.H pPr rPnt, and ll.O(, JWr cnnt. rn­spPdiVPly. 
In I1JH(,, llw numlwr of l'hl>s awardPd to woml'n in tlwsn sallll' fip(ds WPrP :H,.1) pPr ennt, ~2.h (H'r rPnt. ((,.7 pl'r 1~mrt. and 11.7 JWr I'Pill, rPSJll'l'tivPiy. 
Arrording to llalisrhak. llwsn statistics show that "by 20 I 0 thPrP will lw g1~rHIPr parity in tlw humanitiPs and tlw sorial sriPllrPs. hut not in math or PngirwPring." 
llalisrhak also took a surwy of tlw numlwr of wonwn on tlw farultv in various dPpartnwnts at NolrP l>anw. Slw said that thPsl' statistics an• "rasual." 
AI thP assistant profnssor IPVI'I of thP rPgular lParhing and rPsl'arrh fanrlty. llalisrhak found 25 woml'n in llw Colll'gl' of Arts and l.nttPrs, snven womPn in tlw Collr•gn of Scinr11·n and thn CoiiPgl' of Businnss Administration. and two womnn in tlw Collngp ofl:ngin1wring. 
At l111• assor:iatn or full pro­fnssor ll'vl'l. slw found 29 womnn in thn Arts and L1~ttnrs Co!IPgn, four women in tlw Colll'gn of Srinncn. and no wonwn in tlw Collngn of l·:nginPPring or tlw Collegn of Busirwss Administration. 
Slw also said that only thn Collngn of Arts and Lnttnrs has any d11partmnntal chairs. The Collngn of Arts and l.ntters has thrnn dnpartmental chairs who arn women. 
According to llalischak, fe-. main faculty facn difTnrnnt ex­pndations. particularly regard­ing tlwir authority, in the class­room than main faculty. She said that wonwn tend to fnel likn outsidnrs in thn dassroom. Womnn arn ~ wrn likely to be judgnd on thnir appnantnc11 and arn more open to hostility than men. Stud1mts expect female profnssors to bn mom friendly and morn opnn than male pro­fnssors, llalischak said. 
In addition, fnmale faculty rw1HI to carnfully define their roln in the dassroom, aecording to llalischak. If womnn faculty are too frinndly, they are eonsidernd unprofnssional, and if wonwn faculty are not l'rinndly nnough, they are per­ceived as unnurturing, said llalischak. 
Many women professors, llalischak said. fnel a nend to devnlop a "persona." Establishing a classroom role is "very difficult" for fnmale faculty, rnquiring much thought and Pnnrgy, said llalischak. 
Shn also said that the work of wonwn in gnndnr studies and feminist critir:ism are oftnn de­valtw d by tlw i r co lie agues. Although g1•nder studies pro­grams have existnd for about twenty years, many of the "pndagogies rnmain thn same," said llalisehak. 
Newman diseussnd tlw status of wonwn in physics, giving an account of national trnnds in physies and lwr nxperiences. Out of 4200 physic.s faculty in thn nation, I00 are womnn, Nnwman said, and about 50 women per ymtr receive l'hDs in physics. 
According to N11wman. mar­ried femaln physicists experi­nncn a dual-earner problem, nspedally sinen 50 per cent of femaln physicists are married to other physicists. Essentially, this dual-career problem re­stricts the number or job op­portunities. 
Newman said that as a female physicist she felt she had "extra obligations" and "extra baggage." She l'nlt that people expnetnd her to be more social than her male counterparts. 


Embassy takeover ann versary 
APPhoto 
Hundreds of Iranians chanting "Death to America" took to the streets in front of the former U.S. embassy in Tehran Sunday to mark the anniversary of its takeover by militant students in 1979. 

Are you interested in a challenging career in Marketing and the opportunity to complete an MBA at a distinguished graduate schoo/1 
Seniors: If you have the desire to pursue a general management career in Marketing with a leading marketer of consumer foods, we invite you to explore the GENERAL MilLS EXECUTIVE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. 
Come meet and talk with General Mills representatives during our information session on Thursday, November 8, 1990 at 7:00PM in Notre Dame Room at Morris Inn. We also encourage you to contact the Career Center for more information about General Mills and the Executive Development Program. 
lJ 
General Mills 
NBC to do show on state of nation 
NEW YOHK tAP) -In the equivalnnt of a nnwspaper de­voting an entire edition to mw subjnct. "NBC Nightly Nnws" will LISP all or Friday's show to report on the state of the nation and how Anwrieans 1'1~nl about thnir country. 
llowever, if thern is major hn1aking rwws that day. "wn'll put it on, or course," said Stew Friedman, tlw program's exee­utivn producer. 
NBC announcnd tlw unusual movn Monday. Thn "CBS Evening Nnws" and ABC's "World News Tonight" have never d nvo ted one or tlw i r broadcasts to a single subject, spokesnwn for those programs said. 
Friedman conceded the action was unusual but said th1~ importance of the suhjed war­rantnd it. lie notnd that the thre1~ network newscasts in early August were largnly de­
voted to a single subject  - tlw  
Pnrsian Gulf crisis.  
Friday's "Nightly N1~ws"  will  

include satellite hook-ups in which pnopln can question their elncted officials. 
It also will indudn rnports on the economy, foreign competi­tion, and young Americans lm­tering an uncnrtain markr,t­plan~. 
Anchon~d by Tom Brokaw. "Nightly Nr,ws" has br,en bat­tling with Dan Hatlwr's "CBS Evr,ning NPws" for sneond place in ratings in 1wening rwwseasts. Peter Jennings "World Nnws Tonight" has !wen consistnntly first in the A.C. Ninlsen Co. ratings. 


Books 
continued from page 1 
oftr,n been eritieizr,d in its srlection of works. llowever, "the reading and diseussing of the time honornd works or the Western tradition in the context of the democratie formal or the seminar," he said, "implies that thesn works neither go unchallenged nor are they or their conclusions being dogmatieally imposnd upon the student." 
The introduction of the GrPat 
Books program to Notre Dame 
was an item of controversy in 
the 1950's. "Notre Dame was 
the first Catholic university to 
have the program," said Sloan. 
At this time in history, many of the books were considered dangerous for Catholics to read, he said. 
"The democratic format of 
the seminar exposes students to 
many compr,ting and powerful 
authors, many of who arn anti­
religious," he said. llowever, 
the studnnts then comn to their 
own conelusions. Some will 
enase to prac.tiee their rnligion, 
while others will entnr further 
n~ligious lifr,, he said. 
.lust as it has been said that the unexamined life is not worth living, Sloan agrr,es that the unexami1wd faith is not worth having. According to Sloan, this has remained thn undPrlying attitude of the pro­gram to the prnsr,nt. 

Quit smoking. 
&~1jAmerican Heart 
~Association 

------~--~­

Wednesday, November 7, 1990 The Observer page 9 
Homosexual soldier allowed to re-enlist 
WASIIINGTON (AI')-The Supreme Court carved out a one-man exception to the mili­tary serviens' ban on homosex­uals Monday, letting stand a ruling that forces the Army to re-enlist a gay soldier. 
The justices, without com­nwnt, rejected the Bush admin­istration's challenge to the ordtm~d reinstatnrnent of Perry Watkins of Tacoma, Wash., a I6-year veteran with an excel­lent servien record. 
Monday's action is not ex­pnetl~d to alTect in any sweeping way thn military's ban on ho­mosexuals. The appnals court ruling in Watkins' casn did not address thn validity of that ban, but instead notnd the Army re­pnatedly had r11-enlisted Watkins while knowing he is gay. 
The case nnvertheless had been elosely watched by gay rights advocates. 
"These days. we'll take a vic­tory any way we can get one," said Paul DiDonato of the National Gay Bights Advocates in San Franciseo after ac­knowledging that Watkins' vie­tory was a narrow one. 
But DiDonato said Watkins' easn "sends a broader signal out to tlw military and thn country at larg1~ that gays and lesbians cannot bP treated un­fairly fornver by the military or any other employer." 
Watkins said. "My next stnp is obviously to get reinstated." lie said he wants to serve until he can retire with an Army pen­sion in about live years. 
Asked if he anticipated prob­lems after his reinstatement, Watkins said, "That goes with­out saying. The problems that are going to be there are the problems the system itself will create.... I'm asking for the same rights any other citizen receives." 
There was no immediate re­action from the Army or the Department of Dnfense. 
In other matters, the court: 
•Hefusnd 
to let some Puerto Hieo cable TV systems be pros­ecuted for carrying The Playboy Channel, rebuffing arguments that states' anti-obscenity ef­forts may be hampered unduly. 

•Left 
intact a ruling from Illinois that lets prosecutors punish businesses convicted of dealing in obscenity by seizing their property. 

•Huled 
unanimously in a Mississippi case that someone suing morn than one defendant generally does not have to in­clude all of them in the same lawsuit. 

•Agreed 
to decide in a case from California whether con­victed defendants may seek a federal court's help if state courts refuse to explain why their appeals were rejected. 

•Let 
stand an Ohio Supreme Court ruling that the public has no constitutional right to attend juvenile court proceedings. 


In the case of the gay soldier, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals last year said, "Sgt. Watkins has greatly benefited the Army, and therefore the country, by his military ser­vice." 


APPhoto

Grunt football 

Marines from the 7th Engineers from Kanche Bay, Hawaii, and from the VMA 311th from Yuma, Arizona, are shown squaring off for a friendly game of football on Sunday. The Marines were enjoying a day of rest and relaxation from duties in Operation Desert Shield in the Saudi Desert. 






CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments -indoor swimming pool ­-jacuzzi -tennis, volleyball & basketball courts 24-hour laundry-shuttle bus -professional management 
Apartments available for your selection. 

For information call 272-1441 


Viewpoint 
Wednesday, November 7, 1990 

p~ 10 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 

News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
JI~'PN () 0 rJ 0 .) ., ~~~~~irpl 

LETTERS 

Regardless of preference, Christians justify sexual sins 
I used to get worked up about

Dear Editor: Secondly, in regards to the same of our fornicators, great discrimination. I seek this issue was because it al­
The Observer's recent exten­Humanae Vitae, how many of masturbators and practitioners high values, compassion, and a lowed me the opportunity to ig­
sive coverage of the issue of us can say that we have left ev­of artificial birth control. commitment to justice in those I homosexuality has confused ery act of sex open to the pos­I can see it now-polygraphs befriend. Those values are not nore my own issues, my own 
sins. Leaving this one in God'sme. I have read most articles sibility of conception? How before communion and a list of compromised in a person be­

hands has taught me two

hoping to find some insight into many of us feel that, in being questions regarding sexual cause he or she is homosexuaL things. First, it has taught me to
how to approach the issue as a intimate with our partner in a conduct, asked by the priest, If homosexuality is a sin, then heterosexual. Instead, I have way that did not leave itself nun, or eucharistic minister. Is let's, as a Church, leave it to try to be more tolerant of 
others. Secondly, and more im­only found inconsistent applica­open to the possibility of pro­homosexuality such a threat to God and the homosexual to portantly, it has taught me thattion of what most of us under­creation, we have committed a us as heterosexuals that we reconcile-just like we do with tolerance of others is, for me,stand to be Catholic teaching. sin? If so, how many of us have must fervently pursue it in a all other sexual sins. 

the beginning of the process ofIt is clear to me why the ho­confessed those sins before re­sort of campaign of purity? I 
my own reconciliation with
mosexual Catholic community ceiving communion? used to think so. That was be­I have no doubt that there has God.
addresses the issue with such fore I realized that some of my been a great change in me great concern. It is not clear to Finally, how many of us re­very closest friends were homo­regarding this and many other Tom Dixon me why the heterosexual com­mained or intend to remain sexual. issues. For myself, I can Off-Campus 
Nov. 4, 1990

munity does. I used to think pure until we are married? I I choose my friends with forthrightly say that the reason that, in terms of sin, homosex­have no doubt that there are uality was different from other those who remained and will 


Murderous Little Bo Peep stalks SMC 
sins because the sinners were remain virgins until celebrating standing up and saying that it the sacrament of marriage. I Dear Editor: people with after lights-out, but both companies made their was not a sin. I reasoned that also have no doubt that there It never fails to amaze me it has degenerated into a source enormous fortune throughyou don't see too many men are many Catholics who do not how a group of supposedly in­of terror. Section meetings pacts with the devil. Thewho cheat on their wives wait and who, though single, telligent people can be so irre­have been called over it. Some proof? Ray Kroc is said to havehaving coming out celebrations are sexually active. The justifi­trievably gullible. According to students have quadrupled their admitted to satanic dabbling onfor their infidelity. Therefore, I cations for such behavior are popular myth, a Washington, safety precautions or are 60 Minutes (or 20/20,concluded that, one way or an­creative but are justifications D.C. seeress has predicted that freaking out left and right, depending on who you talk to),other, it was imperative to ad­nonetheless. 
somewhere in the 1990's an ax convinced they are doomed. 1 I even though no such interviewdress this issue and take a side I am not trying to argue that murderer is going to haunt a am not saying that all students ever took place. The moon­based on my understanding of because heterosexuals sin in 
midwestern women's college subscribe to this, but their and-stars logo of Proctor and
Catholic teaching. regards to our sexuality, it with tunnels. This rumor has number is significant enough to Gamble was thought by manyI have since changed my negates the sin of homosexual­spread like wildfire and has be disturbing. Clearly, this has to be an ominous occult symbol, mind. Heterosexual Catholics ity. Nor am I trying to argue given graffiti specialists a field gotten out of hand. and public pressure reachedadvocate for their so-called sins that homosexuality is or is not a day. such a point that the companyjust as well as homosexuals ad­sin. My point is that a laity The tale gets more fantastic These stories are a bunch of was forced to change itsvocate for their so-called sin. which selectively scrutinizes every time I hear it. Some say hysterical nonsense devoid of trademark. The Legend ofFirst, I have read and continue one aspect of human sexuality that this latter-day Michael any factual basis. Who is this Little Bo Peep is of the sameto read studies which indicate and ignores others in order to Myers only kills on Halloween; so-called psychic who made this superstitious hogwash. 
that 60 to 80 percent of all discern its mission is a laity that others say no one knows quite dire prediction? Apparently no Come on, people, wise up and married American Catholics is short sighted and misguided. 
when he will strike. Most de­one knows, at least no one I recognize the rumors for thepractice artificial birth control. If, as a church, we dedicate our lightful of all is the belief that have spoken to. It is much sheer swill that they are. OneI have discussed this with my energies to "going after" mem­the killer will be disguised as more probable that the rumors wonders just how far this willcontemporaries (as I am a bers for their sexual sins, we Little Bo Peep. This is better were invented by a student or go. If someone told you that themarried Catholic), and I have will have no church-80 than the late-late show. To any group of students seeking ex­Pope was secretly a Hare
found that those who do not percent of the married, 10 
rational person, the picture of a citement. It is also unlikely that Krishna, would you believe thatpractice artificial birth control percent homosexual and 10 
lunatic masquerading as a a strangely dressed maniac too'? Stephen King, eat your
are seen as somewhat odd, as if percent masturbators and nursery rhyme is more amusing would pass unnoticed or could heart out. I doff my hat to theHumanae Vitae is some kind of fornicators. 
that it is horrifying. lurk in the tunnels for an creative gossipmongers who
antiquated document which we If we are a people ready to extended period of time without have gotten so many students can easily ignore. More than require the repentance of ho­If anything at all is scary being caught. to believe such utter baloney.
that, most married couples who mosexuals in order to allow about this story, it is that a This campus saga is reminis­practice artificial birth control their full participation in our surprising number of people cent of the whispers surround­Laurie Lesniewski do so believing it is not a sin. church, then we'd better at actually appear to believe it. It ing the McDonald's and Proctor LeMans llallSound familiar? least be consistent and require began as a fun thing to unnerve and Gamble empires. Allegedly, Oct. 31, 1990 
DOONESBURY QUOTE OF THE DAY 
lA/ON? YOU

IS. IT TRU8, 
HAV&OV&R

/JfAF<~I fAJHO CAI?ES! ACTUAUY f38,CXJO GRACIOUS... FOR l'eTe's 
IUR!T&-IN VOT/33/

aJON2 '3AK&, lAaY,
AN05TIU­

8Rl:AI< OUT 
COUNTING!

I I 7He5HeRRY!
\ 
I 

'No simplicity of mind, no obscurity of station, can escape the universal duty of questioning all that we know.' 
W.K. Clifford 



Accent 

Wednesday, November 7, 1990 Page 11 
'Vatzlav' a departure for director 

BY CORINNE PAVLIS tion as "very unusual in that it male roles. Each character is Saint Mary's Editor is political, satirical, and alle­exaggerated, and embodies a gorical all at once." This is different political or societal 
"Vatzlav," thn lirst prod uetion unique to productions of this philosophy. of tlw Saint Mary's thnatre 
nature since most of Mrozek's season, is opnning tonight in peers utilize ponderous dramas Baird is very optimistic about and refrain from humor. the production and is very
()'Laughlin Auditorium. Thn 
Vatzlav is also the name of pleased with its "look." lie sitesplay, written in I970 by Polish 

the involvement of various

dissidnnt Slawomir Mrozek, is thn main character. The char­an allegorical farce in which aetnr represents the soul of the qualified professionals as one 
thn political and societal differ­working class man. lie is a reason it should be well re­
slave who gains his freedom ceived. Luis Hamierez, artistic

ences bntween thn "havns" and "havtHlOts" of totalitarian so­through a shipwreck. In his director of Acacia Creative 
dety arP deseribnd. Bunning advnntures he gets himself in­Serviens in Evanston, Illinois, volvnd in a series of exciting designed the set and fighting.
only I 00 minutns, thn show is a fast-pan~d production with scrapes, some of which are life­Lucy Martinov and David Crothers costumed the show. 
quirk scn1w changes and no in­threatnning, all of which arn 
tPrmission. entnrtaining. Vatzlav is a for­In addition to Baird, two Tlw play is being directnd by eigner in a new land trying to other Saint Mary's faculty l.ns Baird, a sncond ynar survive as he meets a series of members are responsible for odd eharartnrs. the anticipated success of the
Assistant Tlwatn~ Professor. 
production. Visiting Assistant

This is Baird's third production 
Professor Sue Cherry is respon­

at Saint Mary's. Wlwn asked 
sible for designing the move­

why lw dwsP "Vatzlav," Baird 
'Each character is ment of the show. Assistant

rns po1Hind, "As a d in~c tor I found I had betH! dirneting exaggerated, and Professor Huberta Hude is 
producing "Vatzlav." 

small cast, small scopP, realistic plays... ( JWndPd to do a gut­embodies a different The dates for the perfor­
mances are Nov. 7 through 10

rlwr.k hy jolting myself into a political or societal 
at p.m., with a Sunday matinee

larger non-realistic produc­
tion." philosophy.' at 2:30p.m. on Nov. 11. Tickets, priced at $6 for general
In tlw past, thn Saint Mary's 
admission, $5 for students and

Tlwatrn Dnpartnwnt has fo­
senior citizens, and $4 for Saint

cused on very rnalistie and Thesn "odd characters" are 
Mary's students, are available

dassieal productions. Baird another interesting aspect of 
at the Saint Mary's box office

lwlinvnd "it was timn to do the production. The play in­
located in ()'Laughlin

somnthing non-rnalistic which volves a "mish-mash of cleverly 
Auditorium. The box office is

would also make a political constructed roles," stated 
open Monday through Friday

statnnwnt. '' Baird frnqunntly Baird. lie explained that "the 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m.

dinwts shows with a political east nmlly had a chance to go 
Visa and Mastercard orders are

nwssage. ovnr the edge." The cast in­
accepted by phone at 284-4626.

Baird dnscribt~s the produc-cludes fnmale actors playing 
Social concerns at top of Washington's list 

BY KRISTIN BAZANY achieving changn and equality. Following this training, she Washington says she was im­seem. Accent Writer When asked to describe her­attended the University of pressed by Saint Mary's for She hopes to do the same for 
Dr. Patricia Washington is a self Washington said, ''I'm a Northern Iowa where she re­many reasons and feels that her students as those teachers Saint Mary's professor noted for middle aged woman, with salt ceived a master's degree in "academically, the faculty here did for her. She does think,her involvement in social is­and pepper hair, who wears counseling and an MSW in ad­are as good as at any institu­however, that students at Saint sues; the latest example of this blended bifocals and firmly be­ministration from the University tion." Mary's study too hard and saysinvolvnment being her recent lieves in the revolution of edu­of Pittsburgh. Washington also She also believes that teach­that this is the only institution lecture on prostiution. cation." received her Ph.D. in social ers at Saint Mary's in many she has ever been where she 
Wlwn trying to describe Although she holds education work from the University of ways are better than any she has had to tell students to have 
Washington, terms such as in the highest regard, she Pittsburgh. has seen in academia and that a good time. dominant. headstrong, claims she always hated school, the institution is superior be­She says that the students intelligent and blunt instantly 
but loves to learn and teach. 'She ... believes that cause there are women faculty here are far too serious about 
come to mind. A native of inner-city Chicago, in departments where other in­studying and far too career-fo­
teachers at Saint Mary's 

Although to many these Washington is a social worker stitutions say they cannot lind cused. Washington also believes qualities may seem overbear­by profession and training. She in many ways are better any. that "you can learn a lot from ing, for the director of Minority, received her bachelor's degree After accepting a position at 
school, but real life experiem~es
than any she has seen in

lntPrnational and Non­in general studies at Saint Mary's, Washington found are what gives you the edgeTraditional Student Life at Saint Northeastern Illinois University, academia...' herself a member of a staff that and keeps you in touch with the Mary's (M.I.N.T.), these with a dual major in sociology "has a good pool of wodd around you."qualities are t1SStHltial in and psychology. international faculty, but... the
After receiving her Ph.D., 

minority faculty numerieally
Washington was awarded three 

leaves a bit to be desired and 
'... she was fortunate
post-doctoral fellowships, the 

could stand substantial im­
first of which was at the provement." enough to have a few University of Wisconsin at 
As Director of M.I.N.T. at good teachers who 
Madison in the psychiatry de­

Saint Mary's, Washington is rn­
partment, for her research of taught her learning is tun
sponsible for the education and
criminal justice and mental 

sensitization of Euro-American and knowledge is useful 
health. 

people on campus to the global
Her second fellowship was at no matter how obscure 
village.
the University of Michigan 

She also serves as a liaison· some things may seem.' 
Institute for Survey Hesearch, 

for minority faculty and staff at
where she studied blacks in the 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to
criminal justice system. She Dr. Washington enjoys her
improve relations between thealso completed research on position at SMC and bnlinves
two campuses. As of this fall,elderly women in the state of Washington is also an assistant that the institution does a goodKentucky for the professor in the dopartment of job of assisting studnnts to bn Journatological Society of confident in their abilities and
sociology, anthropology andAmerica. social work, where she teaches to be eompntitivt~. 
Following her fellowships, Personally, hownver,
a class in the study of American Washington taught for ten minorities. Washington's main objective is years at several different insti­"for students of color, interna­
Washington says she is still
tutions including the University tional, and non-traditional stu­
involved in education because
of Pittsburgh, the University of dents to feel more at home at
she was fortunate enough toWisconsin at Madison, and have a few good teachers who Saint Mary's and to become a 
Dr. Patricia Washington fills several roles in the Saint Mary's and Notre taught her learning is fun and
Wichita State University. more integral part of the com­Washington then decided to munity while they are here and
Dame communities in addition to teaching. She is the current director of knowledge is useful no matter
continue her career at Saint once they graduate."
M.I.N.T at Saint Mary's. how obscure some things may
Mary's. 


Wednesday, November 7, 1990 The Observer 
------~--~~---~~-----···...-.·~··-Ac---·-·~--~e..:..~.::..-.-...•~-.....·;........a.~.... ·:o.:.:: ••~~-~-.,-~_ ....'7.,.-~---------------------------------­
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifleds must be 
Classifieds prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
\ NOTICES 
Found at Miami game: Need Penn St tix PLEASE! I need 2 Penn State NEED PENN. STATE GA's DAVE, -one shoe students or GAs GA's. $$Call4431 LOTS OF 'EM!! 284-4350 GOOD LUCK THIS WEEK IN -one pair of sunglasses Call Sam x4013 PORTLAND!!!!! I expect you to Call Matt @3472 to identify. come back with four job offers. TYPING AVAILABLE Love, Anne WATCH NEAR STONEHENGE. NEED PENN ST GA'S. CALL I need Tennessee tickets and 287-4082 CALL LEN AT 277-9373 TO TOM HAVE 4 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST PSU GA's HELP !!!!! 
IDENTIFY. 273-0302 BEST OFFER 271-0999 Call 288-0597 ATIENTJON!!!!! One black and gold watch lost at the girls flag football playoff 
Lost: 11/3-A double-stranded HELP ME! games on Sunday at Stepan field. 
St. Edward's 

pearl bracelet with two clear I NEED 6 PENN STATE GA'S. NEED 2 TENN TICKETS X2373 HELP: If you have any information about stones somewhere between P.E. JOE X2358 I NEED 2 TENN. TICKETS it please call Anne at 288-0597. 
Hall Forum 

and Carroll or in the haunted FOR MY BOSS, IF I DON'T GET 
house. It's not real, so it has no $$$$$ THEM I MIGHT GET FIRED real value except that my little HAVE 1 ST. NEED 2 GA'S FOR JIM X2461 ATIENTION ALL LEWIS 
Significant People­

Significant Issues 

sister gave to me for Christmas. If PENNST. TONYx1590 Need 5 USC tix CHICKENS !!!!! found, please call Cheryl at 4321. Call Arthur x1610


Father Richard 

SELL YOUR PSU STUDS/GAS & It was a great season -too bad it 
WINDCHILL $$$$$ I'LL LOVE YOU LIKE YOU'VE had to end so soon.

McBrien 

WANTED 
FROSTBITE NEVER BEEN LOVED. I'LL ALSO Everybody remember, as one of
Professor of Theology 

NOV17 PAY YOU LIKE YOU'VE NEVER our "beloved" coached would say, 

Chairman, Dept. of 

PENN ST HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME BEEN PAID to always be HELP WANTED: Earn up to $700 Need I say more? BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S MIKE #1223 "INTELECTUAL AND 

Theology 

speaks on: 

wkly. Easy work, FT/PT, start Ryan need 2 stud tix CALL 273-1364 ATHELETIC" !!!!1!!!1!!!1!!1! immediately. Work at home. For x1048 -The 3rd String Guard 
11 Why I Am 
info send SASEto: 

A VicKorp, P.O..Box 750, Notre Needed: 4 USC GA's. Call Scott at Need 2 Penn St. GA's for visiting Dame, IN 46556. WANTED: 2 TICKETS 283-1818 and leave a message. grandparents who will spend BIG HEY HEY HEY: Stephanie Porter TENNESSEE vs NOTRE DAME, $$$ is 18 today. Harass her whenever· NOV. 10TH. CALL COLLECT Call Pat x1900 possible... 




Catholic" 

Wednesday, 

Earn $300 to $500 per week (704) 322-3709 ASK FOR MARK. need 2 TN ga's Rick x 1750 

November 7, 
Reading Books at home. Call 


1-615-473-7440 Ext. B 340. NEEDED: 2 PENN STATE GAs $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL MARY X1727 To the Lushes of LeMans (AKA Wealthy Physician to Pay Sell me 4 PENN ST. GAs and I'll Kerrie Ann and Missy): What do 
WANTED: 6 Pitt, 6 Penn St., Big Bucks for PENN STATE be happy! Cristin x3857 you do on a Mon. night in S. 4 Tennesee GA's 273-1364 G.A.'s or STUDS Need 2 Penn St GA's Bend? Go to the Marriott & ride 
JUST SAY NO' x 1935 ask for Alex Call Tim x1368 the elevator-but not to the lower Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I need all the tickets that you level ("people get killed down Books, corner of ND ave. & ND HOCKEY IS LOOKING FOR can sell me for the Tennessee­there!"). Howard. 233-2342 AN ORGANIST OR PEP BAND N.D. game. Call Phil at 1436 Need 4 Penn St GA's. -Chris (the Des. Driver from 
FOR HOME GAMES. 239-5050. HELP -I need PSU GA's or leave a message. Call x2891. Hell!) PLEEEAASE call Beth at 288-0597


FAST 

Need ride FOR 2 to PITI for NEED GA'S There will be an INVESTMENT THANKS. break Diane x4902 I need two tickets for Penn State. PENN & USC CLUB meeting tonight at 7pm in

FUNDRAISING 

I need MANY Penn State GAs, GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. 272-9770 rm. 124 Hayes-Healy. 
preferably in groups. Call Paula--'­283-4096.FOR RENT I need two tickets for Penn State. NEEDED: Two GAs and four Marge, GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409. student tix for Penn State. Oh my God, it really does 
PROGRAM 
•1000~:.. 

I NEED PENN ST & Tenn Call Matt at 288-7568. reach to his knees! BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY tixs.272-6306 Happy 21st B-Day 
Earn up to $1000 in one week 
219-291-7153 
for your campus organization. 

NEED 1 PENN ST STUD OR GA NEED PENN ST. GA'S AND TIX FOR UTILE SIS PLEASE!! STUD.
Plus a chance at 

NEAR N.D. Duplex available. PENN STATE TIX; need 1 CALL SARAH 2815 CALL JOHN 234-5840 
$5000 more! 

1 bdrm-$265 student; call Bill x3300 SEMESTER AROUND THE 2 bdrm-$360 WORLD
This program works! 

dep., references FALL 1991
No investment needed. 

616-483-9572. Need 4 USC tix Carrie x4355 I need Penn St tix HELP! I NEED 2 GAs FOR PENN Informational meetings ­
c.11 1-I00-912.0SZ8 

Jeff x3320 STATE. Nov. 6, 5:30, ND Library PLEASE CALL ALFRED @ 1563 Auditorium.

Ext. so 

FEMALE NEEDED TO SHARE 2 Need stud tix for Penn St. Call Nov. 7, 6:30, SMC Haggar. BEDROOM APT AT TURTLE Geoff at 271-5686. WANTED! 2 PENN STATE GA'S. CREEK A VAL. UNTIL MAY CALL TEDS X1388. 
TUTOR WITH PHD &10 YEARS 273-9406 OR 283-2805 PLEASE HELP! CALL TO PEACEMAKING WEEK UNIVERSITY TEACHING I NEED 2 Penn St. G.A.'s or I NEEEEED PENN ST. GA'S EXPERIENCE WILL ASSIST Studs. Aimee x4112. NEED 2 PENN STATE GAs JILL X 4852 DINNER AND DISCUSSION ON 
STUDENTS IN ECON LISA 2341574/JIM 2711703 THE US INVOLVEMENT AND 
,STAT,MATH COURSES 2723153 Single 2-Room Apt. Cheap SOCIAL PROBLEMS IN THE 15 min. Walking from Campus Penn State GA's please. Paige PHILLIPINES. Avail. Dec. 1 -May 31 x2980. I need two Penn St. GAs and one 
Bob x3234 WE NEED PENN. ST. GA'S AND stud. Call Darrell at 283-3302. TRADITIONAL PHILLIPINO STUDS. WILL PAY BIG$$$$$. DINNER I need 4 GA's for Penn State! CALL JEFF OR BOB AT 2235. $3.00 >>>LOST<<< FOR SALE Sandy x4121 5:00-6:00PM WEDNESDAY BRACELET OF GOLD LETIERS PLEASE I really NOVEMBER 7, CSC which spell SEX, SEX, OH, OH! PLEASE need I LOVE YOU CD Player, Stereo cabinet, mise REALLY, I NEED 4 PENN. ST. PLEASE PENN STATE Obvious sentimental value electronic equip. 272-41 08, Steve NEED PSU STUD TKTS GA'S. I WILL PAY LOTS OF PLEASE tix Attention 'Sesame Street' fans! REWARD CALL 1363 MONEY FOR THEM. FLO X1696 PLEASE call Kate @4071 Announcing the ERNIE 288-7976 PLEASE THANKS!! 




I LOST/FOUND 
& BERT Fan Club! One-Way air ticket to/from 
no obligation, just call 3293 South Bend, to/from Phila., NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's LOST: A N.Y.C., or Wash.D.C.; good GWEN X1327 NEED 3 PENN STATE I NEED PENN ST. TIX. Gold Nugget Bracelet on Fri. 11/2 any1ime except holidays; STUD. TIX CALL JIM STUDENT HAPPY BIRTHDAY, somewhere between P.W. and the $100, Mike 288-2083 AT X1910 OR X1911 OR GA'S -DOUG X1852 lake. Please return -great I need your help. GLENN ROUSEY sentimental value! ••••••REWARD"""""" I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S $$$$ Needed $$$$
My high school teacher is a From the two "mere" secretaries. call Kate or Amy at 4550. FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE graduate from Indiana University. Need Penn St Stud & GAs Penn State Std.'s and GA.'s NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-He's was pretty cool. Todd x1724 Ed@ 277-8974 or Jon X4022 1364 
GHOST-Thank you for the best Lost -on 11/3 Dark red and black I need at least two tickets to the thingee-thing ever. Maybe we 
camera · 35mm-dropped by the IU/ND basketball game for him can do it again sometime. L.H Grotto or on the shuttle. If you and a friend. (G.A. or stud tix). picked it up, please call Jenny Plane ticket to Boston for sale: Please .... PSU GAs FOR SALE Need tix for PENN ST. GAME. 
284-4055. L-11/20 R-11125 x3028 or x2546 Will pay anything!!! Please Call ....ONLY $19o:····· 
Give me a call and we can make a Kerry at 284-5073 and leave JESTER, live at the COFFEE Please call x4809 deal. Cris @4842 message!!! HOUSE this Fri. .. NO KIDDING! Need 1 Penn Stud ..REWARD"" 
Amy x1343 I lost my RED PLAID TICKETS 

PERSONALS Hey Liz 
UMBRELLA on Sunday 10/21 I need FOUR PENN GA'S for rich JustHAPPYHAPPYHAPPYHAPPY in Hesburgh library. VERY high alum. Will pay good money. $$$$$ HAPPYDAY!!!!!!!! sentimental value (plus, Need $$$?Sell Call Corey@ 1351 hiag 
(since your 22 b-day was 

it is unique and I would your ga's to all I need 2 Penn State GA's yesterday) skinhead definitely recognize it!) Please call home games. Call Katie x3771 2983 with info Call tom x1597. NQA. I really need my umbrella! Need $$$$$ FRESHMAN FORMAL 
..REWARD.. 

two «HURRAY FOR 
I WANT YOUR TENESSEE I desperately need Penn St tickets Penn HOLLYWOOD» 
TICKETS? WHY? CAUSE I HAVE GAs and students State PENN ST GA NEEDED friday , nov. 9 ••• 9-1 a.m. MONEY AND I HATE THE VOLS! 
Call Mark x2506 GAs. MONEY NO OBJECT MIKE Haggar Parlor CALL ME. WE'LL DO LUNCH. Jay -tickets on sale $10.00­
X1588 JOHN x3574 LOST RING!!! LOST RING!!! x2290 M-Th 4:30-6:30 in all halls Gold Clataugh (sp?) ring ... I need 2 GAs for Penn State 
two hands holding a heart­call Mr. Jeffrey Abbot at 283-1655 PSU tix needed: studs or GA's Irish Music and Dancing shaped purple stone, with a if you are able to help out 
call288-2195 with crown on top...PLEASE contact HEY HEY HEY! HELP 
Sheamaisin me if you've found it!!! It was Make my day NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND 
Thursday at Club 23 a pre-Christmas gift-the Need 1 Penn St. student ticket Sell me two Penn GA's AREA FOR THANKSGIVING only one I'll see!! Erin at 4634, Steve at x2506 
Need 4 Penn State GA's. WILL HELP PAY GAS/TOLLS 114 Lewis ....... . Thanks! X3821 Call Pete x1097. CALL DAVE X1955. sdgf 
Wednesday, November 7, 199C The Observer page 13 

Scoreboard 

A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25  NBA STANDINGS  I  NBA BOXES  
The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated Preas 1990 college football poll, whh flnlt-place votealn parenth8888, recorda through Nov. 3, total points baaed on 25 points lor a flnlt·place vote through one point for a 25th-place vote, and last week's ranklnga: Record Pts Pva 1. Noire o ..... (37) 7-1-0 1,456 2 2. Washington (13) 8-1-0 1,403 7 3. Houston (5) 8-0-0 1,337 6 4. Colorado (5) 8-1-1 1,310 9 5. Miami, Fla. 6-2-0 1,228 8 &.Iowa 7-1-0 1,129 13 7. Georgia Tech 7-0-1 1,074 16 8. Brigham Young 7-1-0 1,039 10 9. Tennessee 5-1-2 960 11 10. Florida 7-1-0 949 15 tt.VIrglnla 7-1-0 924 1 12. Florida St. 6-2-0 845 12 13. Nebraska 8-1-0 818 3 14. Texas 6·1-0 762 14 15. Auburn 6-1·1 650 4 16. Mlsalaalppl 8-1-0 600 17 t7. Illinois 6·2·0 568 5 18. Clemson 8-2-0 509 18 19. Michigan 5-3-0 438 20 20. Oregon 7-2-0 362 22 21. Penn St. 6-2-0 279 24 22. Louisville 8-1-1 224 25 23. Southern Cal 8·2·1 148 21 24. Michigan St. 4-3-1 106 25. Wyoming 9-1-0 84 19 Other receiving votes: Texas A&M 73, Ohio St. 7t, Oklahoma 36, Arizona 19, Colorado St. 18, Syracuse 17, Ca!Wornia 13, S. Mlsalaslppl 4, Toledo 3, San Jose St. 2, Minnesota 1, Nonh Carolina 1. NFL STANDINGS  EASTERN CONFERENCE Alanllc lllvWon w L Boston 3 0 Philadelphia 2 0 Miami 1 1 Washington 1 1 New York 1 2 New Jen~ey 0 3 Centnllllvlalon Atlanta 3 0 Charlone 2 1 Detroh 2 1 Indiana 2 1 Milwaukee 2 1 Cleveland 1 2 Chicago 0 3 WESTERN CONFERENCE ~lllvllllan w L San Antonio 1 0 Danaa 2 1 Utah 1 1 Houston 1 2 Minnesota 1 2 Denver 0 3 Orlando 0 3 Pacllc lllvlalon Portland 3 0 Seanle 2 0 Golden State 2 1 LA Clippers 2 1 Phoenix 1 1 LA Laken1 0 2 Sacramento 0 3 z-flnlt game was a win  Pet 1.000 t.OOO .500 .500 .333 .000 1.000 .667 .667 .667 .667 .333 .000 Pet 1.000 .667 .500 .333 .333 .000 .000 1.000 1.000 .667 .667 .500 .000 .000  (JI 112 1112 1 112 2 3 1 1 1 1 2 3 (JI 112 1 1 2 2 112 1 1 1 112 2112 3  l10 3-0 2-0 1-1 1-1 1-2 0-3 3-0 2-t 2-1 2-1 2-1 1-2 0-3 L10 1-0 2·1 1-1 1-2 1-2 0-3 0-3 3-0 2-0 2-1 2-t 1-1 0-2 0-3  Streak Won3 Won2 Lost 1 Wont Lost 2 Lost 3 Won3 Won2 Lost t Wont Won2 Wont Lost3 Streak Wont Won2 Wont Wont Lost 2 Lost 3 Lost 3 Won3 Won2 Wont Lost 1 Lost 1 Lost 2 Lost 3  Home 1-0 1-0 1-1 1-0 0-2 0-0 2·0 t-1 2-0 2·0 1·0 0·0 0-2 Home 1-0 1·0 0-1 1-0 1-0 0-t 0-2 1-0 2-0 1-0 2-0 0-1 0-1 0-2  Aw.y 2·0 1-0 0-0 0-1 1-0 0-3 1-0 1-0 0-1 0·1 1-1 1-2 0-1 A-y 0-0 1-1 1-0 0-2 0-2 0-2 0·1 2-0 0-0 t-t 0-'1 1-0 0-1 0·1  Conf 3·0 2-0 1·1 1-1 1-1 0·3 1-0 1-1 2-0 1·1 1-1 0·2 0-3 Coni 1-0 1-1 1-1 1-2 1-0 0-3 0·0 3-0 1-0 2-1 2·1 t-t 0·2 0-2  WARRIORS t30, CUPPERS 108 LA Cllppe,. (109) Kimble 8-17 6-6 20, Norman 11-21 8-10 30, Bannister 5-10 6-12 16, Garland 4-9 0-0 8, Grant 0­3 0-0 o, Garrick 3-7 1-1 7, Manning 5-11 5-5 15, Vaught 3-7 1-2 7, Manln 1-3 0-0 2, Butler 2-2 0-0 4. Totals 40-90 27-36 109. Golden State (130) Mullin 8-10 9-9 26, Tober! 5-8 4-5 14, Lister 3--4 2-4 8, Hardaway 5-11 2-4 12, Richmond 9-15 2-2 21, Higgins 3-7 3-3 10, Hlll2--4 2·5 6, Marclullonls 5-8 11-15 21, Prltchard 2-3 2-2 6, Johnson t-2 0-0 2, Jepsen 1--4 0-0 2, Smrek 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 45-77 37--49 130. LAC!ippeN 3t 24 26 2&--109 Goldl!nSIMt 30 30 37 33-130 3-Polnt goals-Los Angeles 2-7 (Kimble 2·5, Norman 0-1, Garrlck 0-1 ), Golden State 3-5 (Mullin 1·1, Richmond 1-1, Higgins 1-1, Hardaway 0-1, Marclullonls 0-1). Fouled out-Grant, Vaught. Rebounds-Loa Angeles 41 (Norman, Vaught 8), Golden State 43 (Lister 1 0). Assists-Loa Angelos 28 (Grant 12), Golden State 32 (Hardaway 13). Total fouls-loa Angeles 38, Golden State 26. Technlcals-Golden State Illegal defense 2, Kimble. A-15,025. TRAILBLAZERS 125, LAKERS t23 OT PorUand (125) Kersey 0-4 0-0 0, Williams 8-11 4-5 20, Duckworth 6-13 10-12 22, Drexler 10-21 4-5 27, Porter 8-19 5-6 23, Alngo 6-9 0-0 16, Robinson 5-7 0-1 10, Cooper 0-0 2-2 2, Young 0-1 0-0 0, Bryant 2-2 1-2 5, Abdelnaby 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 45-87 26-33 125. LA Lake,. (123)  ROCKETS 1411, NUGGETS 135 Denwr(135) Lane 2·5 0-0 4, Woolrldge 11-23 4-6 26, Aasmuaaon 6-16 1-3 13, Johnson 7·11 t-2 15, Llchtii0-21 6-7 27, W.Davla 8·21 4-6 20, Dunn 2-4 0-0 4, Gaines 8-11 4--4 18, WoK 2-7 2-2 6, Cook 0-1 0-0 o, Uberty 1·1 0-0 2. Totals 55-121 22-30 135. Houaton (145) Thorpe 7-14 7-9 21, Wood 1-6 5-8 7, Olajuwon 11-19 2·2 24, K.Smhh 11-15 12-14 35, Woodson 8-14 4-6 16, Maxwell 8-t3 4·7 23, Caldwellt-3 0-0 2, Floyd 1-7 2-2 4, Wlncheeter4-6 0-0 10, L.Smlth O-t 0-0 0, Fehl 1--4 1-2 3, Jamerson 0-0 0-0 O.Totala 51-102 37-48 145. Denver 42 32 27 34-135 HouAin 44 43 24 34-145 3-Polnt goal-Denver 3-10 (Gaines 2-5, Lk:htl 1· 4, Wolf 0-1), Houston 6-10 (Maxwell3-5, Winchester 2·3, K.Smtth 1·2). Fouled out­Aasmuaaen, Olajuwon. Rebounds-Denver 57 (Aasmusaen 15), Houston 79 (Thorpe 22). Asalata-Denver 29 (Johnson 15), Houston 34 (K.SmMh 11). Total louis-Denver 35, Houston 22. Technlcals-Woodson, Olajuwon. A-14,002. MAVERICKS 118, KIICKS lit Doi1M(96) MoCray 2-3 2·2 6, T arpfey 13-23 3-3 29, Donaldson 3-10 5-5 11, Blackman 8-16 4-5 20, Harper 8-12 3-3 15, English 2-9 0-0 4, Lever 1-3 2­2 4, Wiliams 1--4 2-2 4, Davia 1-2 0-0 3. Totals 37­6221-2296. New York (91) Oakley 5-13 0-0 10, Vandewoghe 3-7 2-2 8, Ewing 9-17 8-8 26, Jackson 4-9 3-3 11, G.WIIklna 5-9 5-7 15, Quinnett2-5 0-0 4, Muatal2-5 0-0 4, Cheeks 2--4 0-0 4, Tuckar 3-8 0-0 7, E.Wiklna 1·2 0-0 2. T otala 36-79 18-20 91. Dd• 25 15 27 29--96 NtwYCNk 27 22 23 1&--QI 3-Point goai8-Dallaa 1-3 (Davta 1-1, Harper 0­2), N-York 1-7 (Tucker 1--4, Vandewoghe 0-1, G.WIIklns 0-2). Fouled out-None. Rebound­Dallas 42 (Tarpley 10), New York 49 (Oakley 18).  
AMERICAN CONFERENCE EMt w L T  Pet  I'F  PA  T..ac~ay·. a.n-Charlone 113, New Jersey 105  Green 4-10 7-9 t5, Worthy 12-20 2-3 26, Dlvac 10-13 1-2 21, Johnson 8-16 7·7 24, Scon 5-11 2·3 13, Perkins 1-5 3-6 5, Teagle 5-12 5-6 15, Ca,...,t>ell 1·1 0-0 2, Drew 0-0 0-0 0, Brown 0-0 0-0  Asalata-Dallas 21 (Harper 7), New York 23 (Jackson 7). Total fouls-Dallas 15, New York 26. A-14,056.  
Buffalo Miami NY Jeta Indianapolis New England Centnl Cincinnati Pittsburgh Houston Cleveland  4 2 1 5 5 4 2  t t 5 6 7 4 4 5 7  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  .875 .875 .444 .250 .125 .556 .556 .444 .222  229 136 175 93 175 199 112 186 120 244 212 225 171 147 194 169 128 235  Indiana 96, Minnesota 96 Milwaukee 106, Miami 94 Dallas 96, New York 91 Cleveland 102, Orlando 95 Boston 110, Chicago 108 Houston 145, Denver 135 Soanle 100, Dotroh 92 Golden State 130, LA Clippers 109 Portland 125, LA Lakera 123, OT Atlanta 102, Sacramento 85  o, Thompson 1-1 0-0 2.Totals 47-89 27-36 t23. Portland 23 38 24 32 8-125 LAI..akin 27 28 28 34 6-123 3-Polnt goai&-Portland 9·15 (Ainge 4-5, Drexler 3-4, Porter 2-5, Young 0-1), Los Angelos 2-14 (Johnson 1·4, Scon 1-4, Worthy 0·1, Perkins 0-1, Dlvac 0-1, Teagle 0-1, Groen 0-2). Fouled out­Ainge, Dlvac, Perkins. Rebounds-Portland 52 (Williams 12), Los Angeles 48 (Divac 13). Asslst&­Portland 31 (Porter 12), Loa Angeles 37 (Johnson 22). Total fouls-Portland 30, Los Angelos 31. A­16,361.  CELTICS 110, BULLS t08 BoaiDn (110) Pinckney 3-3 1·2 7, Bird 11-16 2-2 24, Parish 2-5 4-6 8, Lewis 5-7 3-3 13, Shaw 8-15 4-6 20, Kleine 0-2 0-2 0, McHale 6-9 7-9 19, Brown 2-6 o-o 4 Gamble 5-11 5-7 15. Totals 42-74 26-37 110. ' Chicago (1 06) Grant 4-7 0-0 8, Pippen 9-16 5-6 23, Cartwright 5-11 0-0 10, Paxson 6-10 1-1 13, Jordan 14-28 5-6 33, King 3-4 4-9 10, Armstrong 1-5 1-1 3, Perdue 1-3 0-1 2, Hopson 2-5 0-2 4, Hodges 1-3 0-0 2.Totals 46-92 16-26 108.  
Boelon  24  27  28  31­110  
W.O. LA Aaklnl Kanaas City San Diogo Denver Seanle  6 5 4 3 3  2 3 5 5 5  0 0 0 0 0  .750 .625 .444 .375 .375  154 176 195 190 158  108 121 156 205 166  Wadrwadoy'a Gamea Charlone at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Dallas at Phlladephla. 7:30p.m. Chicago at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Denver at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. Golden State at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. Detroit at LA Cllppenl, 10:30 p.m.  HORNETS 113, NETS t05 New.ler•y (105) Morris 7-13 1·2 15, Haley 3-4 3-4 9, Bowie 5-11 2-3 12, Blaylock 3-9 2-2 8, Theus 9-19 8-9 26, Coleman 2-10 3-4 7, Lee 0-1 0-0 0, Gervtn 8-18 3­ Chicago 32 21 37 1&-­108 3-Polnt goals-Boston 0-0, Chicago 0-2 (Jordan 0-1, Hodges 0-1 ). Fouled out-None. Rebound­Boston 57 (Bird 11 ), Chicago 42 (Cartwright Jordan 8). Asslats-Boaton 20 (Shaw 8), Chlcag~ 34 (Jordan 12). Total foul-Boston 24, Chicago 23. A-18,676.  
NATIONAL CONFERENCE EMI w L T NYOlanta 8 0 0 Washington 5 3 0 Philadelphia 4 4 0 Dallas 3 6 0 Phoenix 2 6 0 Centnl Chicago 7 t 0 Tampa Bay 4 5 0 Detroit 3 5 0 Green Bay 3 5 0 Minnesota 2 6 0 W.O. S.F. 8 0 0 Atlanta 3 5 0 LAAama 3 5 0 New Orleans 3 5 0  Pet I'F 1.000 195 .625 185 .500 199 .333 1t9 .250 103 .875 t99 .444 163 .375 206 .375 t47 .250 t77 1.000 198 .375 208 .375 t91 .375 136  PA 103 141 172 180 195 102 208 220 180 t81 138 221 227 157  Th&ndoy'a Gamea Washington at New York, 7:30 p.m. Miami at New Jersey, 8 p.m. Philadelphia at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. Orlando at Houston, 8:30 p.m. San Antonio at Utah, 9:30 p.m. NHL STANDINGS WALES CONFERENCE l'aldllllvlalon w L T I'll GF NY Aangen1 11 6 0 22 69 Washington 10 7 0 20 56 New Jen1ey 9 5 1 19 59 Philadelphia 9 7 0 18 62 Pittsburgh 8 6 1 17 70 NY lalanden1 5 10 0 10 40  GA 43 51 48 55 59 64  Home 8-2-0 5-2-0 7-0-1 5-3-0 5-3-0 3-5-0  Aw.y 3--4-0 5-5-0 2-5-0 4--4-0 3-3-1 2-5-0  lllv 4-3-0 4--4-0 5-3-0 2-5-0 6-3-0 2-5-0  3 20, Dudley 2-2 0-0 4, Buechler 1-3 2-2 4, Conner 0-2 0-0 0. Total1 40-90 24-29 105. ct.lotte (113) N-man 5-12 8-11 18, Gillam 10-16 7-7 27, Reid Nl 3-5 17, Boguea 3-9 5-5 11, Chapman 3­1o2·2 9, T rlpucka 1-4 4--4 6, Ganlaon 3-7 2-2 8, Gill 1-5 2--4 4, Curry 2-7 5-6 10, Happen 1-11·1 3, Scheffler 0-0 0-0 O.Totals 36-79 39-47 113. New.Jenay 31 31 19 24-105 awtotW 28 34 25 2&--113 3-Polnt goai8-New Jon~ey 1-5 (Gervtn 1-2, Lee 0-1, Theus 0-1, Morris 0-1), Charlotte 2-4 (Chapman 1·1, Curry 1-2, Gill 0-1). Fouled out­Morris, Bowie. Aebound&-N-Jen~ey 49 (Coleman 14), Charlone 57 (Gilliam 14). Asalsts­New Jorsay 27 (Blaylock 13), Charlotte 24 (Bogues 8). Total foui&-New Jen1oy 35, Charlone 27. Technical-New Jen~ey Illegal defenaa. A­23,901. BUCKS t06, HEAT M Milwaukee (106)  PACERS88, TIMBERWOLVESII ..._.. (98) Cotbln 8-12 7-6 23, Murphy 4-7 0-0 8, B'*Mr 8­12 1·1 13, CampboH 8-22 8-6 22, Richardson 8-13 0-0 17, Spenoor 1-5 1-1 3, Mhcholl 2-7 2·2 6, Brooks 2-5 0-0 4, Glaaa 0-1 0-0 o. Totu 39-114 17­20 96. blana(98) PBIIIon 9-17 0-0 18, ~2-13 2-4 6, Smits 1·7 3-3 5, Flaming 9-16 1·3 IQ, Miller 7-13 14-15 2Q, Sanden~ 1-3 0-0 2, Schremp! 5-7 5-6 15, M.WHMama 1-3 2·2 4, MoCioud Q-0 0-0 O.Totala 35­79 27-33 98. ..,_ 34 21 24 17-98 lncl­22 23 23 30-­QB 3-Polnt goals-Minnesota 1·2 (Richardson 1-1, Ca,...,t>&ll 0-1), Indiana 1-3 (Miller 1-1, Pen1on 0-2). Fouled out-None. Rebounda-Minn•ota 56 (Brewuer 12), Indiana 42 (Tho~n 10). Aaalat­Minnoaota 17 (Aichardaon 11), Indiana 21 (Miller 7). Total foula-Minneaota 28, Indiana 22. Technicaia-lndlana Illegal defenae 3, Minnesota Illegal defense. A-8,437.  ..  
Brlckowskl6-12 5-5 17, Roberts 1-6 0-0 2, Slkma  
Sunday'• Ganwe Pittsburgh 21, Atlanta 9 New York Jets 24, Dallas 9 Philadelphia 48, New England 20 New Orleans 21, Cincinnati 7 Miami 23, Phoenix 3 Kansas City 9, L A. Aalders 7 San Francisco 24, Green Bay 20 Washington 41, Detroh 38, OT Buffalo 42, Cleveland 0 Chicago 26, Tarrpa Bay 6 Loa Angeles Rams 17, Houston 13 San Diego 31, Seanle 14 Minnesota 27, Denver 22 Monday' a Game New York Olanta 24, Indianapolis 7  Adlma lllvillon Boston 8 5 Montreal 8 6 Buffalo 5 5 Hartford 4 8 Quebec 3 10 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Nonlalllvlalan w L S1. Loula 10 4 Chicago 10 6 Detroh 7 5 Minnesota 3 9 Toronto 2 14 Smylhe lllvill... Calgary 11 6 Loa Angeles 10 4 Vancouver 7 7 Winnipeg 6 9 Edmonton 2 9  2 2 4 3 3 T 1 1 3 4 1 0 1 0 1 2  18 18 14 11 9 I'll 21 21 17 10 5 22 21 14 13 6  46 53 45 34 41 GF 53 53 58 42 45 73 66 42 50 32  52 50 41 49 65 GA 40 38 57 60 84 51 46 46 51 39  5-1-0 5-1-1 2-2-3 3-3-2 1-5-2 Home 4-1-1 7-3-0 7-1-0 2-2-2 2-6-1 7-1-0 6-1-1 4-3-0 4--4-0 2-5-1  3--4-2 3-5-1 3-3-1 1-5-1 ;2-5-1 A-y 6-3-0 3-3-1 0-4-3 1-7-2 0-8-0 4-5-0 4-3-0 3--4-0 2-5-1 0--4·1  2-1-1 4-1-1 2--4-3 2-3-2 1-2-3 Dlv 4·1·1 4-2-0 3-1-2 0-5-2 2--4-1 5-1-0 3-2·1 2--4-0 5-3-1 0-5-2  8-11 3-3 19, Humphries 9-15 2-3 20, Robertson 12-22 2-6 27, Grayer 1-3 2·2 4, Pierce 3-13 6-6 13, Schayes 1-3 0-0 2, Anderson 1·2 0-0 2, Henson 0­3 0-0 0, Lohaua 0-1 0-0 0, Kornet 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 42-93 20-25 106. Maml(94) Rice 8-16 2--4 19, Thompaon 0-2 0-0 0, Sekaly 5­13 0-3 10, Douglas 5-10 1·2 11, Edwards 2-11 0-1 4, Burton 5-17 7-7 17, Davts 3-5 2--4 8, Col98 1-5 2· 2 4, Keasler 3-6 0-0 6, Wagner 7-14 Q-0 15. Totals 39-99 14-23 94. Mlwaukee 26 28 32 20-­1 06 Maml 20 30 20 24­94 3-Polnt goals-Milwaukee 2-8 (Robertson 1·2, Pierce 1-3, Humphrles 0-1, Henson 0-1, Lohaus 0­1), Mlaml2-8 (Rica 1-2, Wagner 1-3, Edwards 0-1, Coles 0-1, Kessler 0-1). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Milwaukee 57 (Robertson 12), Miami 66 (Sekaly, Burton 12). Assists-Milwaukee 25 (Humphries 11), Miami 28 (Douglas 9). Total fouls-Milwaukee 25, Mlaml22. A-15,008.  SUPERSONCS 100, PISTONS 112 Da.-ol1 (92) Aguirre 2-8 4-4 Q, Edwards 5-10 6-8 16, Lalmbeer 5·11 3-3 14, Dumara 8-15 7-7 23, Thomas 3-13 4--4 10, V.Johnaon 3-7 0-1 6, Rodman 1-3 2-2 4, Salley 0-1 0-0 0, Haatlnga 0-0 0-0 0, Bedford 3-3 0-0 9, Blanks 0-2 1-2 1. Totals 30-73 27-31 92. Seeltla (100) McDanlel9-21 8-7 24, McKay 8·13 5-7 21, Cage 1-3 2·2 4, Payton 4-6 1-2 Q, Threan 7-15 2-2 16, Dalley 2-4 0-2 4, Potynloe 1-4 5-6 7, Barros 2·2 3-3 7. Kemp 2-6 4-6 8. T otala 36-76 28-37 100. Dalrolt 22 18 27 2!>­Q2 Sallllle 23 18 30 29-­100 3-Polnt goala-Oetroft 5-13 (Bedlord 3-3, Agu~re 1-1, Lalmbeer 1·3, Blanke 0-2, Thomas 0-4), Seanla 0-0. Fouled out-Rodman. Aebounds­Detroh 43 (Edwards, Laimbeer 9), Seattle 53 (Kemp 13). Aaalata-Detroft IQ (Dumara, Thomas 5), Seattle 18 (Payton 8). Total foui-DelroM 211, Sea!tle 27. Technlcala-Seattle llogal defense 3, Detroit Illegal defenaa 2, Thomu. A-13,078.  
Sunday, Nov. 11  
Atlanta at Chicago, 1 p.m.  
Indianapolis at N. England, 1 p.m. Miami a1 New York Jota, 1 p.m. Minnesota at Detroit, 1 p.m PhoeniK at Buffalo, 1 p.m. Seanle at Kansas CMy, 1 p.m Tarrpa Bay at New Orleans, 1 p.m. Denver at San Diogo, 4 p.m. Green Bay a1 L A. Aaldenl, 4 p.m N.Y. Glan1s a! L A. AaiTS, 4 p.m. San Francisco at Dallas, 8 p.m. OPEN DATES: Cincinnati, Cleveland, Houston, Plnaburgh  Monday'a Game Boston 3, N.Y. Aangen1 2, OT T..ac~ay·. a.n.. Late Game Not Included Chicago 1, Hanford 1 , tie N.Y. lalanden1 4, Toronto 3 Pittsburgh 6, Calgary 5 Washington 4, Quebec 1 St. Louis 2, Edmonton 1 Philadelphia 4, Winnipeg 2 Detroh at Vanoouver, (n)  CAVAUER8102, MAGIC II Clew!IINI (1 02) Nanao 10-16 3-4 23, Brown 5-6 3-5 13, Daugherty 8-14 4-8 16, Pllddlo 7·11 0-0 15, Prlca 8-13 4-4 17, Ehlo 2-6 2-4 8, Wlliaml2·7 0-04, Monon 0-0 2·2 2, Bennett 0-1 1-2 1, Ferry 1·3 3-4 5, Kerr 0-1 0-0 0. Tolal1 39-80 22-31 102. Ollllldo (95) catledge 2·11 0-0 4, Aeynokll2-9 8-6 12, KMe 0­1 1-2 1, Ski* 0-4 2·2 2, Andler.an 8-111 3-4 20, Acr81 0-1 0-0 0, Vlncen18-15 5-7 17, Smith 5-18 4·  HAWKS 102, KINGS 85 Alanta(102) Wlklns 7-18 10-11 24, Willis 2-5 2·3 6, Malone 4­6 8-11 16, Riven~ 5-11 4--4 15, Robinson 4-5 0-0 8, MoCormlck 5-8 0-0 10, Webb 0-4 0-0 0, Ferrell 3-6 2·2 8, Banle 1·3 1-1 3, Wrlght 1-1 0-0 2, Moncrief 3­5 4-4 10, Wilson 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 35-n 31-36 102. Sacramento (85) Simmons 5-13 0-0 10, Tisdale 10-15 6-1 0 26, Wennlngton 3-8 2-2 8, Sparrow 1-6 0-0 2, Hansen 4-9 2-2 11, Carr 3·6 0-0 6, Lecknor 0-2 0-0 2, Maya 3-11 7-8 14, Coher 0-3 0-0 0, CausweU 2·3 1-2 5,  
Monday, Nov. 12 Washington a1 Philadelphia, 9 p.m.  Wadrwadoy'a Gamea Boston at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. Buffalo at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m N.Y. Islanders at New Jen~oy, 7:45p.m.  a15, McNamara 0-1 0-0 0, Soon 0-3 0-0 0, Ansley 8-6 3-5 15, Turner 4-8 1-211.Totall 33-98 27-36115. Clewllnd 29 15 26 32-102 Oltondo 20 18 28 31­115 3-Polnt goaia-CI-'and 2-9 (Paddlo 1-2, Price  Calloway 1·3 1-1 3. Totals 32·79 19-25 85. A....... 27 23 25 27-102 Sac....-nanto 14 30 23 1&-85 3-Polnt goals-Atlanta 1-5 (Rivers 1-2, Williams 0·1, Webb 0-1, Robinson 0-1), Sacramento 2-9  
ll'lnday'a Gamea Calgary at Phlladephla, 7:35p.m S1. Louis at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. VancoUV81 at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Edmonton at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. Quebec at Minnesota, 8:35 p.m Detroit at Loa Angeles, 10:35 p.m.  1--4, Ehlo 0-3), O~ando 2-11 (Anderson 1·2, Smith 1·3, Skllea 0-1, Vincent 0-1, Soon 0-1, Turner Q-1). Fouled out-None. Aabounda-Cieveland 62 (Nance, Daugherty 12), O~ando 80 (Andanaon, Vincent 7). Alsilla-CI-Iand 29 (Prloo 13), Orlando 21 (Vincent 11). Total foul-Cleveland 26, Orlando 29. Technical-Brown. A-15,077.  (Hansen 1-2, Mays 1-4, Sparrow Q-1, Coher 0-2). Fouled out-Wennlngton. Rebounds-Atlanta 54 (Willis 9), Sacramento 41 (Simmons 9). Assists­Atlanta 22 (Wilkins 6), Sacramento 26 (Simmons 5). Total fouls-Atlanta 25, Sacramento 29. Technlcals-Atlanta Illegal defense 3. A-17,0t4.  

-~ 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1990 

Walker trade bust for Vikings, boon for Cowboys 
(AP)-Last Sunday night, Herschel Walker ran onto the field for the Minnesota Vikings, carried the ball for 12 yards and ran off the field. 
For a guy who had 9 yards on six carries in his two previous games, 12 yards was wonder­ful, yet he was taken out of the game. 
And that. perhaps better than anything, demonstrates the point: The Trade is a boom for Dallas and a bust for Minnesota. 
"If this takes us to the Super Bowl in the next two years, then it's a great deal," Mike Lynn, then president of the Vikings, said when he dealt six players, five draft ehoices and a host of conditions to the Cowboys for Walker. "If it's not, then it's a bad deal." 
It's a bad deal. 

Since the trade was made in the fifth week of the 1989 sea­son, Minnesota is 9-11 and Walker never has approached the 148 yards he gained in his Vikings debut. The Vikings were blasted from the playoffs in their first game last year and are 2-6 this year. They need a minor miracle to return to the playoffs, even with an addi­tional wild-card spot. 
Nor will Dallas make the playoffs this year, but it, at least, is showing improvement. The Cowboys' three wins are three times last year's total. And coach Jimmy Johnson, the man who made the deal, says the polite and conventional thing: "It was good for both teams." 
Sure. 

But unlike the Rams. who have slid back because some of the players they got with draft picks from the Eric Dickerson deal of 1987 appear to be dis­appointments, the Cowboys al­ready are showing why their deal was so good. 
So far, this is what the Cowboys have: 
• 
Running back Emmitt Smith. who became one of the Cowboys' extra No. 1 draft picks. The Cowboys actually dealt one of Minnesota's picks to move up in the draft and get Smith. Johnson won't say it, but he certainly wouldn't trade Smith, six years younger, even up for the 28-year-old Walker. 

• 
Linebackers Freddie Solomon and David Howard and cornerback Issiac Holt, all obtained from the Vikings in the Walker deal. Not only has their loss drained the Vikings' 


depth, but all, particularly Holt, are peforming well for the Cowboys. 
• 
Defensive end Daniel Stubbs, who leads the Cowboys with 4 112 sacks. He was ob­tained from San Francisco with the since-released Terrence Flagler for one of the second­round picks in the deal. They got that pick for a choice that had been tied to one of the players the Vikings gave them, Alex Stewart. It became a sec­ond-rounder when the Cowboys released Stewart two weeks after they got him. 

• 
Fullback Alonzo Highsmith, obtained from Houston with another of the second-round choices~a 1991 pick-that the Cowboys got from the deal. Like Stubbs, he played for Johnson at Miami; unlike Stubbs, who leads the Cowboys in sacks, he has yet to produce, although his potential is unlim­ited. 


In addition, the Cowboys have Minnesota's top pick next year and its top three in 1991. That could give the Cowboys three picks in the top 1 0----their own, the Vikings' and the one they got from New Orleans (3-5) for quarterback Steve Walsh. 
Compare that to what the Rams got for Dickerson in the three-cornered deal that also sent Cornelius Bennnett to Buffalo and brought them run­ning back Greg Bell, who now plays for the Raiders. 
In '88, they used the draft picks they got from Buffalo and Indianapolis on running back Gaston Green, wide receiver Aaron Cox and linebacker Fred Strickland. 
The only thing Green has done is return a kickoff 100 yards for a touchdown in a 41­10 loss to Pittsburgh two weeks ago. Newman is a nickel back and Cox has been productive when healthy, but has spent more time injured. 
In fact, the best player the Rams got in that draft, wide receiver Flipper Anderson, came on a second-round choice obtained from San Diego for Barry Redden. 
In '89, the Rams used a first­round pick from Buffalo for running back Cleveland Gary, who is just now starting to emerge, and a second-rounder on cornerback Darryl Henley, who like Cox has spent most of his time injured. 
Moreover, Dickerson, despite his hassles with the Colts, raised Indianpolis from the 
depths to respectability and a 
playoff berth in '87. 
But to say that the Walker 
trade helped both teams, as 
Johnson does in his diplomatic 
way, is stretching. 
Vikings coach Jerry Burns, 
whose use of Walker~or lack 
of it-could cost him his job, 
says he never got Walker to 
make him a 30-carry-a-game 
guy who could take a team to a 
Super Bowl by himself. 
Running backs rarely do. 
Dickerson has never gotten to 
a Super Bowl. O.J. Simpson, 
Gale Sayers and Earl Campbell 
never came close, and it took 
Walter Payton 13 seasons to get 
there. 
"I never expected Herschel to 
come in and dominate our of­
fense," Burns says. "Herschel's 
a hard worker. He's done ev­
erything we've asked him to 
do." 
Part of the problem is what 
he's been asked to do. 
In Dallas, where he led the 
league in total yards in 1988 on 
a 3-13 team, he ran out of the I 
formation and often was set out 
wide as a receiver. He led the 
NFC that year with 1,586 
rushing yards and caught 53 
passes. 
"He needs space," says Halph Hawkins, former defensive co­ordinator of the Jets and _Seahawks and now a scout in Seattle. "You need to get him a 
seam or an open field." 
But in Minnesota, which uses 
a split-back formation, he's also 
expected to block, which he 
never really has done. If he's 
most effective carrying 30 
times a game, he's rarely car­
ried more than 15 in 
Minnesota,-even Sunday 
night, his best game this year, 
he carried 10 times for 59 
yards. 
It has now come to this for 
the Vikings: They hope to get 
SOMETHING for him after this 
year, like a No. 1 pick from a 
team whose offense he'd fit, 
like the Redskins or the Rams. 
And even Lynn, while he 
hasn't admitted failure, has 
come close. 
"You make good trades and 
bad trades," he said as he left 
the Vikings to take over the 
commissioner's job with the 
World League of American 
Football, the NFL-sponsored 
league scheduled to start in the 
spring. 
"If this one doesn't work out, 
it could be my legacy to 
Minnesota." 
Some legacy. 









We're looking for seniors who like 
working with an kinds ofhardware. 
Careers in data processing, accounting, actuarial, and auditing at State Fann. 
At State Fann, we understand the concept of "work:' Believe it or not, we also understand the concept of "plai' 
That's because we don't think you can be really outstanding at the first without having an appreciation for the second. Which is exactly why a career at State Fann in Bloomington could he the ideal place for you. 
'You'll work for one of the country's most respected companies on the most advanced computer equipment in the industry. You'll be challenged and stimulated. 'You'll be rewarded wiU1 excellent pay and benefits. You'll make your clas..<;mates very envious. 
\\l1at's more, you'll al<;o have time to appreciate the fmer things in We. That's because Bloom­ington isn't just a great place to start a career, it's a great place to live, to enjoy, to start a family (if: indeed, you're ready to start thinking about that). In addition to the community's pleasant neighbor­hoods, inviting parks, and other recreational facilities, you'll fmd two uruversities tl1at offer a host of cultural and social activities to take advantage o[ 
lfyou're a seruor with a math, accounting, data processing, sATATI State Fann or computer science background, come talk to us at your •uM In college placement office. We're looking for people who are SllrallCe motivated and outgoing. People who enjoy challenges on the INsuuNc~ Companies 
job -and away from it. After all, you're not just looking for a Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois. great job. You're looking for a great way oflife. An equal opportunity employer. 
champion by all three major 


The Contest 
ACrrmmrdPuzzle 
The Prize: 



ARwMacintosh a 
Watch For FurtherDetails laterTillsWeek 

® 

Apple Computer, Inc. 
MADMACS, N(1re J)Jire -MichtJrn U~ G!O..lp 

SECURITY BEAT 
Join hosts Vic Lombardi and Hugh McGowen tonight for WFVI Sportstalk. They will discuss Notre Dame's drive to the national championship from 8-9 p.m. on your 640 AM dial. Call in: 239-6400. 
Off campus students wishing to play Interhall hockey should stop in the NVA office this week and sign the roster. 
Flag football deadline has been extended until today. Sign up at NVA. Games Fri.-Sun. Nov. 9-11. Information at 239-6100. 
Irish Insanity will meet today at 7:30 p.m. Guest speaker will be Notre Dame hockey coach Ric Shafer. A group yearbook photo will be taken, too. The meeting is in Cushing Auditorium. (Hm. 117, Cushing Hall.) 
Novice Crew meeting in 127 Nieuwland Thursday, Nov. 8 at 7:30 
p.m. Frostbite will be organized and sweats will be ordered, so bring your checkbooks. Note: Any varsity members that want to order sweats must attend. 
If you can hum, you can play! 

HAPPY 
21st 
8-DAY! 

J' 



Stonebreaker reaches finals 
ORLANDO. Fla. (API ­Michael Stonebreak11r of Notre Dame is among five players se­lected as finalists for the Butkus Award. 
Stonebreaker, who sat out last season beeause of diseiplinary problems. has 73 tackles. one fumble recovery and two interceptions this season. 
The award is given to the top college linebacker. The winner will bP announced 
Dec. 4. Th11 award is presented by thn Downtown Athletic Club of Orlando. 
Darrick Bronlow of Illinois. Maurice Crum of Miami, Alfrnd Williams of Colorado and Levon Kirkland of Clemson also were chosen finalists Monday. 
Crum, Miami's leading tackler the past two seasons, helps lead one of the best rushing defenses in the country. lie has 85 tackles. one interception and one sack. 
Williams has 79 tackles, in­cluding 21 for losses, 12 1/2 sacks and one blocked kick. Brownlow, a two-time, All-Big Ten selection, has 114 tackles, one fumble recovery and one in­terception. 
Kirkland, who anchors the nation's top defense, has 44 tackles, including nine for losses. He also has 1 1/2 sacks and a fumble recovery. 

Purdue basketball coach: teach offense 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Purdue coach GPne Keady was irate after his Warn's last loss. a oitter B-72 loss to Texas in the SPcond round of the NCAA Midwest Hegional. Keady's post-game verbal as­sault. which led to a finn from the NCAA. hasn't been forgot­ten. 
Keady believes the officials called several blocking calls against his team when they 
Peltier 
continued from page 20 
appeal even more widespread. His 3.4 grade point average put him on the 1989 All-America first team by Baseball America. Despite taking an early offer by the Rangers, PeltiPr has been faithful to his career after baseball by returning for the should have called charging. 
"The officials are telling me in the last two years they're not going to call charging. They're not going to call defensive stuff. They're for the offense, so I'm going to teach offense." he said. 
"Why fight the problem? Why not join them?" 
That season-ending loss gave Purdue a 22-8 record. The Boilermakers had finished sec­ond in the Big Ten race after 
to be looked at in a very special light," said head baseball coach Pat Murphy, who watched Peltier blossom into a First­team All-America choice. "Students here make a com­mitment both academically and athletically." 
Now in his final semester at Notre Dame, Peltier is about to close a chapter in his life and move on at full speed into a 
being tabbed for a lower sec­ond-division berth. 
Keady hopns his squad can surprise prnseason forecasters for a second year in 1990-91. 
He gets his first look at the Boilermakers against outside competition. when they faee the Soviet National team Wednesday. Another exhibition game is scheduled Nov. 14 against the Lafayette Hustlers. 
new one. With his marriage set for 1991, his life is taking shape rapidly. 
"There's a lot of things hap­pening right now," says Peltier. "There's a lot of opportunity and that's exciting. If it keeps going in this direction I'll be happy. I just have to keep men­tally focused and have a posi­tive frame of mind. and I know good things will happen." 



Michael Stonebreaker was named a finalist tor the Butkus Award, given to the top linebacker in the country. 

SWEATER SPECIAL 
OFF 

Bring in any 3 sweaters or more and get them cleaned for HALF OFF the regular price. 

Limited time only. 
2 Convenient Locations 
Near Campus 207 Dixieway South (Roseland) 272-8093 Ironwood at South Bend Ave. Greenwood Shopping Center 272-'9461 

--------------------------~----------·---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------­
The Observer 

Wednesday, November 7, 1990 page 17 
Chang, defending his title, advances at Wembley 
WEMBLEY, England (AP)­ opponent he could face again in  
Miehanl Chang recorded his  the Davis Cup final.  
first shutout as a professional  "Today was a good day," said  
Tunsday, defeating Mark  Chang, seeded third in the  
Kratzmann 6-0, 6-0 in a display  $297,000 tournament. "It's  
of pownr and quicknnss.  been a rough year for me, so  
Chang, defending champion  you always like to end on a pos­ 
of the Wmnbley indoor tourna­ itive note."  
nwnl, gave up just three points  Fifth seed Aaron Krickstein  
in thll first set and 15 overall in  and eighth-seeded Scott Davis  
his first-round victory over an  also advanced to the second  
Volume  Zorich says he can. I will not play games, I will not hide it, or  
deceive anybody along that line.  
continued from page 20  If he can practice, I will be  
following previously-unbeaten  happy to announce it.  
Virginia's 41-3H loss to Georgia  "I don't want our football team  
Tech last wnekend, should  sitting around and saying, 'Is  
further motivate the  Chris Zorich gonna play?"'  
Volunteers. But it doesn't moan  Holtz continued. "You go down,  
a gr<lal deal to the Irish, who  you line up, you get on the air­ 
saw how quiekly things can  plane to go play Tennessee, you  
change when Stanford knocknd  say Chris Zorich isn't going to  
thnm out of the top spot five  play and it's no big deal  
wneks ago.  because we've already come to  
"I nnvnr worry about No. 1,"  that conclusion that we don't  
Holtz said. "I worry about  expect him. If he can play. it  
wlwther wn have a chance to  will be a tremendous lift."  
bP No. I. Wll do have a cham~e  Barring a sudden recovery by  
to be No. I. but them's 10 or 15  Zorich, sophomore Eric Jones  
lnams that havn a better  will start at nosn tackle against  
chance of being No. I."  Tennessee. Jones recorded  
Nolm Dame will take its No. 1  seven tackles in his first colle­ 
ranking into the Tennessee  giate start last week against  
game. but it might be without  Navy.  
nose tackle and Lombardi  
Award finalist Chris Zorich for  Both outside linebacker Andre  
the second straight week.  Jones and tight guard Mirko  
Zorich missed last Saturday's  Jurkovic, however, arc expected  
Navy game with a partially  to return to the starling lineup  
dislocated right kneecap in­ this week. Jones missed the  
jurnd against Pittsburgh.  Pittsburgh and Navy games  
"I don't bclinve that Chris  with an aggravated thigh  
Zorich will be able to play,"  contusion, while Jurkovic sat  
Holtz said. "The trainers arc  out the Navy game with a knee  
not real optimistic, but Chris  sprain.  



is currently looking for interested people to fill the following paid positions: 
Typesetter 

for the late shifts on Mondays and Wednesdays 
Familiarity with computers is necessary, preferrably on the Macintosh. If interested, contact Bernard Brenninkmeyer at The Observer office at 239-5303 

round, but sixth seed Horst  quickness to be in place for  
Skoff lost the last four games of  winning shots.  
his match to fall 3-6, 6-4, 6-2 to  Kratzmann became so un­ 
Patrick Baur.  nerved that he tossed his racket  
Chang, a member of the U.S.  in the air at one lob as it sailed  
Davis Cup team that faces  over his head. The Australian  
Australia Nov. 30-Dec. 2 in Fort  also double-faulted five times.  
Lauderdale, teed off on  
Kratzmann's serve and used his  Chang's only mistake was a  
Bowls  The Cowboys may be 10-2 coming into the game, but the  
Golden Bears, featuring bud­ 
continued from page 20  ding superstar Hussell White,  
The Independence,  are a team to be reckoned with  
traditionally a bowl of last  in the future. Wyoming cer­ 
resort, makes a bid to join the  tainly won't be able to in the  
big boys, but seriously, who  present.  
wants to go to Shreveport?  LIBERTY (Dec. 31; Memphis,  
Explosive Northern Ill innis,  Tenn.): Army will get the ser­ 
shut out of the bowl picture  vice academies' automatic bid  
last year, won't mind, however,  by defeating Air Force  
and will defeat local favorite  Saturday and Navy Dec. 8.  
Louisiana Tech.  Southern Mississippi, overcom­ 
JOHN HANCOCK (Dec. 29; El  ing a vicious schedule-eight of  
Paso, Texas): AP reported  its 11 games are on the road,  
Monday afternoon USC and  including four SEC  
Michigan State unofficially arc  teams-shouldn't have any  
locked in already to meet in the  problem defeating the Cadets.  
renamed Sun Bowl. The  NOTE: If Air Force does beat  
Spartans will end a disappoint­ Army on Saturday, and then  
ing (record-wise) season by  loses to UTEP, Air Force will go  
handling Marinovich & Co.  to the Liberty at 5-6. No other  
PEACH (Dec. 29; Atlanta, Ga.):  comment is necessary.  
Mississippi, disheartened by its  CITRUS (Jan. 1; Orlando, Fla.):  
loss to Tennessee, costing the  What once could have been the  
Rebels the SEC title, will take  national championship game  
out its frustration on North  now becomes a matchup  
Carolina, whose only claim to  between Atlantic Coast  
fame is being the only blemish  Conference champ Georgia  
on Georgia Tech's otherwise  Tech and SEC runner-up  
perfect season.  Auburn. The Yellow Jackets'  
HOLIDAY (Dec. 29; San Diego,  defense is better than Virginia  
Calif.): Brigham Young, led by  made it look, and the Tigers  
record-breaking quarterback  are not as bad as Florida made  
Ty Detmer, will clinch the  them appear. Georgia Tech, an  
Western Athletic Conference  up-and-corning team for next  
Saturday versus Wyoming and  year, will prove its victory over  
an automatic berth in the  the Cavaliers was no fluke by  
Holiday Bowl. There, Detmer  defeating Auburn.  
will run up against a tough  COTTON (Jan. 1; Dallas,  
Alabama defense which held  Texas): Texas can lose to  
Tennessee to only six points.  Houston and still be the  
The Tide haven't faced an of­ Southwestern Conference rep­ 
fensive force like Detmer, how­ resentative because the  
ever, and BYU will roll.  Cougars are on probation.  
COPPER (Dec. 31; Tucson, Az.):  Michigan, the best 8-3 team in  
Wyoming will bring a huge  the country, should be battling  
contingent of fans down from  for a national championship.  
Laramie to Tucson to face an  Instead, the Wolverines settle  
overreaching California team.  for winning a close contest with  

Minnesota Bus at Thanksgiving and Christmas 
Leaves November 21 and December 21 
Parents contact Carol at American Group Tours at (612) 452-4679 for Registration 



ISO BANQUET 
The International Student Organization invites you to its traditional international banquet featuring more than 15 dishes from all over the world. 
Date: Fri. Nov. 9th, 1990 Place: The Center for Social Concerns Time: 8:00pm, 10:30 pm Tickets: $5 at the ISO office, 2nd Floor, LaFortune 
or call: Maria 284,5011 Etienne/Juan 273,1686 Jorge x1106 Carmen x4281 

iBON APPETITI BUEN PROVECHOI EAT WELL! 
double fault on his first match point and the 18-year-old said he worried for an instant that it was the start of a collapse. 
"I double-faulted on match point and thought it was going to slip away from me," he said, insisting that he was not kid­ding. "It's tough not to let 
the Longhorns. FIESTA (Jan. 1; Tempe, Ariz.): Only a few weeks ago, a Virginia-Miami matchup had network executives drooling. Now, it's an attractive game to precede the Orange Bowl for NBC, showcasing two of the finest quarterbacks in the na­tion, Shawn Moore and Craig Erickson. The Hurricanes haven't had three losses in a season for a while. They still won't. GATOR (Jan. 1; Jacksonville, Fla.): This used to be the premier pre-New Year's Day bowl. Now, it becomes just an­other warm-up for the big bowls later in the day. Don't bowl executives know a good thing when they see it? Nonetheless, the Gator will provide an entertaining game between two teams whieh had high hopes earlier in the sea­son: Florida State and Illinois. Bobby Bowden is a master in preparing his teams for the big games. He'll have his Seminoles ready for the kill and will tomahawk the Illini. HALL OF FAME (.Jan. 1; Tampa, Fla.): Another Florida bowl! Once again, two teams which had delusions of grandeur earlier on will clash. Clemson, whose only losses were to Virginia and Georgia Tech, faces Penn State, recovering from early-season losses to Texas and USC. Flip a coin to pick this one. Clemson just seems to be a slightly more complete team. 
ROSE (Jan. 1; Pasadena, Calif.): The Granddaddy of Them All finally has a game with na­tional championship implica­tions. Washington is as good as they come this season, with an above-average offense led by Greg Lewis, and a monster de­fense. The Huskies will annihi­late Big 10 representativn Iowa and then hope for the best. SUGAR (Jan. 1; New Orleans, La.): Tennessee will beat Mississippi, Auburn will strug­gle against in-state rival Alabama, Florida is ineligible for bowl competition, and the Sugar will choose the Volunteers over Auburn for the SEC berth. Tennessee will face major disappointment Nebraska, which will continue its record of futility in major bowls. 
ORANGE (Jan. 1; Miami, Fla.): A rematch of last year's game, Colorado fans hoping for a dif­ferent ending will have to wait another year. The Irish, pro­vided they survive a Murderer's Row ending, are more balanced offensively this year, while the Buffaloes have not proved they can pass or stop the pass yet this year. 
What does this all mean for the National Championship? In a perfect world, Washington and Notre Dame would meet to decide the title. However. in the world of polls, Notre Dame would finish No. 1 because un­less the Irish lose, the pollsters won't knock them out of the top spot. 
~------~---­
page 18 

Japan: has the new juggernaut arrived? 
TOKYO (AP) -First it was cameras, cars and electronics. And now, horror of horrors, is baseball to be the next U.S. in­dustry to find itself outgunned by the Japanese juggernaut? The question, which would have evoked laughs last week, seems suddenly pertinent after the showing of a major league all­star team touring Japan for an eight-game series. The Americans have lost the first four games to their Japanese counterparts, includ­ing an 11-6 rout Tuesday in Fukuoka, a city on the southern island of Kyushu. The major league team, which includes Cecil Fielder, Dave Stewart and Rob Dibble, lost 4­1, 4-3 and 2-1 in its previous three games. "The Japanese are playing really well," commissioner Fay Vincent said. "You can't take anything away from the Japanese." In Game 3, four major leaguers were thrown out on the bases. In Game 4. the major leaguers made four errors. "''m trying everything to win," said Don Zimmer, the Chicago Cubs manager who is managing the all-star team. "We want to win. We all want to win. But they've (the Japanese team) outplayed us." 
Does this mean sayonara to U.S. superiority on the field? Does this mean the World Series of the future in Tokyo? Hardly. say the experts. "Japanese baseball is better than most Americans think," said Robert Whiting, whose book "You Gotta Have Wa" ex­amined the differences between the Japanese and American ap­proaches to the game. "But it's not as good as some of these Japanese commentators are starting to say now." 
To begin with, the playing field is not exactly even for the series. The major leaguers have to contend with jet lag and most of them have been off for a month since the end of the regular season. 
And while the Japanese roster includes virtually all the coun­try's top players, many of the leading stars from the United 


AP Photo Despite Chris Saba's successful steal in the eighth inning of the third game between the United States and Japan, the American all-star team lost its third straight to Japan Tuesday night, this one 2-1. 
States aren't on the major Cincinnati Reds, "He threw up would have difficulty making a league team. his hands and said, There's no Class AAA team. When Whiting asked the way we'd win."' Still, the all-star series is bound manager of the Seibu Lions, to boost the image of "yakyu," winners of this year's Japan Whiting believes about 20 the Japanese term for the Series championship, how his Japanese could play in the rna-American import they have team would do against the jor leagues, but said most other been playing here since the World Series champion professional players in Japan 1850s. 

Kingston Rule takes title in Australia's prized race 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -Kingston Rule, a son of Secretariat, won the $1.56 mil­lion Melbourne Cup on Tuesday as trainer Bart Cummings cap­tured the race for the eighth time. 
Kingston Rule, ridden by 
Darren Beadman, made his bid three-sixteenths of a mile from the end of the two-mile race when he overtook Our Magic Man, which had been running second to Argentine import Savage Toss. 
The Phantom finished second and Mr. Brooker was third. Kingston Rule went off as the 7-1 co-favorite with The Phantom. Mr. Brooker was 14­1. 

A spokesman for the New South Wales state off-track betting service said Monday 
that an estimated $273 million would be wagered on the race. That is approximately $15.60 for each of Australia's 17 mil­lion people. 
Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York, presented the three-handled gold cup to the winner, who earned $940,000. 
Australians packed pubs and huddled around televisions to watch the Melbourne Cup, Australia's biggest horse-racing spectacle. 
You are invited to an Autobiography Party 

the Notre Dame Bookstore 
Tuesday· Nov. I3th from 2:00 to 3:30 Second Floor Book Department 
Wednesday, November 7, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday, November 7, 1990 
6 p.m. Presentation/Reception by Leo Burnett Company (Media). All A&L, Business, and MBA students interested in earner opportunities with Leo Burnett Company are in­vited. Leo Burnett Company will be interviewing on cam­pus on Nov. 29 and 30. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
8:30 p.m. Notre Dame Jazz Combos Concert. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Music Department. 
9:15 p.m. Film, "Imitation of Life." Annenberg Auditorium, Snitc Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
Thursday, November 8, 1990 
11 :30 a.m. Hospitality Lunch to Benefit Women United for Justice and Peace. Center for Social Concerns. Admission $3. Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Wednesday, November 7, 1990 
4 p.m. "The Heworking of Democracy in Chile: Hoadbloeks and Detours," Genaro Arriagada. Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Washington, DC. Hoom 121. Law School. Sponsored by The Helen Knllogg Institute for lnlnrnalional Studies. 
6 p.m. "Crime Control in Cities," Mayor Joseph Kernan, City of South Bend. Part of llesburgh Program in Public Servic1~ Speaker Series. llesburgh Library Lounge. Sponson~d by Hesburgh Program in Public Service. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Fried Stnak w/ Gravy Grilled Sole Noodle Kugel 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
!)()~~ SIT 1".£1-\ 1~5\E~\), DD ~OV W~NT TO TO ME, U\.'Jl~ ~EAR A. R\OOU: I M~D£ UP . I~~ WM\ 10 1-\£"-R Al-l~ 
DISGUST\~G 
COMMEN\'5 AB:ivT LUtKI-\. 
ACROSS 
1 Raced 5 Cummerbund 9Taps down 
14 Novice 15"-girl!" 16 Serviceable 17 Russian river 18 Dressed 19 Opus for nine 20 Start of a quip 23H.C.H. 
opponent: 1928 24 Take advantage of 25 Metallic element 
29 Garfunkel or Buchwald 31 Order to Fido 
35"-Get Started With You," 1936 song 
36 Saline drop 37 Notable period 38 More of the quip 42Siip 43 Love god 44 Part of a springe 45 Secretary 47 Knot in cotton 
fiber 48 Made an exact 
duplicate 49Self 51 Angle a nail 52 End of the quip 60 Hillside 61 Lady's man 62 Made angry 
63 Street show 64 Mediocre 65 Hurt 66 Motionless 67 Nonesuch 68 Cinders of 
comics 
DOWN 
1 Short pencil 2 Heap on which 

Joan of Arc died 3 Q.E.D. word 4Simpleton 5 Drawer 
freshener 6 Cartography 

collection 7 Penn et al. a Mecca trek 9 Former Barbary 
state 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Makes up for ~:-T::"T.71 11 Golconda 
'-'+''+'-+=-i 12 Begged -:-:-t:::+.--E-1 13 Gel .:.:::-t::~+=-1 21 Famous 

meeting site: 1945 -=+=-+-=:-+=+=-! 22 Bizarre ~-'-!-"-+::-+:-:-! 25 Quoted -=+=+:::-+=+=-! 26 Pigment for ~=+::~ John Opie 27 Max and Buddy 28 Mass. cape 
*::::-r:+.-F.i 29 Fabulous moralist or moralistic fabulist 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"It's just a miracle you pulled through, George. 
Why, it was only a few hours ago the whole family was deliberating on whether or not to wring your neck." 


.. 
30 Cheers 46 Big enough fish 54 As well for an angler 55 Cooper's was 
32 Mortise's 
"High"

partner 48NewWorld 
56 Dry the dishes 

33 Obeyed the vulture 
57 U.S.S.R. inland 
alarm clock 

50 Say "hello" sea 34 Deviated from 
51 Pithy 58 Cloistered life course 
59 Best of 

52 Author Paton 
36 Londoner's Hollywood radial 53 Minute opening 60-Lanka 39 Malice 40 Table Bay is 
Answers to any three clues in this one puzzle are available by touch-tone 41 U.S.-Canada phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each canals minute). 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
***SPElUNI<£R SPECIAL fEATURE.*** 


··slJii"..NEws·t···s·un··NEws·r·s·un··NEws·t·····i 
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
I I 

I I <Thursday, Nov. 8>

has recently sent out a I 
. I A Shot in the Dark
music survey. We would I 
I Montgomery Theater
greatly appreciate the 1 
1 8:00 and 10:00 

participation of those 11 Tickets are $1 
who received it. I 
11 <Fri., Nov. 9 & Sat., Nov.lO> 


.~ ..--~~~~. ~.?.~-~ ~: .............~...................?..~ ~!.! Y.•••-~.?.J.l!.~.~ .....•~!.~~~!. ~-~~~~-~-~~ ~-~-' 

Sports
eage 20 Wednesday, November 7, 1990 
Holtz pumps up volume, preps Irish for Knoxville 

By FRANK PASTOR Associate Sports Editor 
Three weeks ago, Lou Holtz placed a long-distance phone call to Miami head coach Dennis Erickson before Notre Dame faced the Hurricanes in what was then perceived as the most important game of the college football season. Holtz placed a call of a different sort this week, seeking advice from former Alabama head coach Ray Perkins as his top-ranked Irish prepared for Saturday's contest against No. 9 Tennessee, the current version of the most important game of the college football season. 
"Ray Perkins has taken a team up there," Holtz said, "and I figured Alabama was always a real intense rival with Tennessee. He didn't have much to say, except that {the quarterback) can't check off, it's difficult, and you're gonna hear that Rocky Mountain Top Tennessee song all the time. The fans are really exciting, you see all kind of orange, and the field has a tremendous crown which we can't simulate. 
"When your quarterback throws an out cut on the other side, it may be downhill 2 1/2 feet. You may only be able to see the top of the other team, and that throws off your passing game." Holtz has sought a second opinion. "I've talked to some different coaches," Holtz said. ''I'll probably call some more. I figure I'll call until I can find somebody say something positive about going into Knoxville. Everybody just says, 'Don't go unless you absolutely have to.'" 
With Notre Dame's 7-1 record, the national championship, and the reputa­tion of every major bowl preview writer on the line, the Irish have no choice but to show up at Tennessee's 91,100-seat Neyland Stadium on Saturday. Crowd noises and country songs blared from speakers in the Loftus Center at Monday and Tuesday's practices as Holtz tried to simulate the noise level his team will contend with at Tennessee. 


The Observer I John Studebaker Chris Zorich (50) stands with Devon McDonald (45) and George Williams (69) during the Miami game. Zorich is doubtful for Saturday's contest at Tennessee. 
"I don't know if I've ever had a football around our neck which the AP writers team going into a tougher situation," placed on us." Holtz said. "We're gonna go into the That albatross, in the form of Notre worst environment you possibly can. Dame's No. 1 Associated Press ranking Tennessee's been looking forward to this game, and we go in with an albatross 
see VOLUME I page 17 
Irish men's basketball team to have 'Meet the Players' night 
Observer Staff Report Singleton will speak to the dents. We want to get them students and there will be a just as fired up about the question and answer session upcoming season as we 

The Notre Dame men's afterwards. are." basketball team will sponsor "We want to have the play­"Meet the Players" night ers meet with the student Free refreshments, includ­tonight at Theodore's at body," Phelps said. "We'll ing finger pizza, will be 
10:30 p.m. talk about the team and the served, and door prizes will 
The night will be an season, and then we'll field include Blue & Gold cards opportunity for students to some questions. and basketballs autographed become familiar with the "I just felt that it would be by the Notre Dame team. Irish players and win a few good to get the students to­Free coffee cups will also be prizes as well. gether with the basketball given to the first 200 stu­
Irish coach Digger Phelps team and the basketball dents in attendance, cour­and senior captain Tim team together with the stu-testy of Maxwell House. 
Men'S baseball team gets verbal commitment from star prep pitcher 
Observer Staff Report strikeouts in 53 innings and plays quarterback and punter posted a 1.57 ERA for the for the Colerain football team, Midland Express, a Cincinnati and stars for his school's bas­

Cincinnati prep star Tim amateur team, last spring. The ketball team as well. Kraus ran Kraus has made a verbal 6-2 right-hander was also the for 500 yards and scored five commitment to attend Notre big star for his team at touchdowns as an option quar­Dame and play baseball under Colerain High School, which terback at Colerain and aver­Coach Pat Murphy, according was ranked in the USA Today aged 21 points a game for to the South Bend Tribune. national top 25 for part of last Colerain's basketball team last 
season. winter. Kraus was 7-2 with 67 The high school senior also 


Peltier finds a large corner at Notre Dame 
By getting his degree at Notre Dame, former Irish baseball star Dan Peltier has attracted many people to "his corner." 
This slugger, who after his junior year here was the Texas Rangers' third-round pick in the '89 draft. plays baseball in the minor leagues during the. spring and summer, and studies at Notre Dame in the fall. "I remember when my fiancee's (Notre Dame senior Amy Tri) family came down to watch me playing in Tulsa (The Rangers' 
double-A affiliate in Oklahoma) this summer," recalls Peltier. "They came all the way from their home in Minnesota to watch. Well, I remember them sitting there when I was up, and I hit a home run. They started yelling and cheering, with Mr. Tri and his son jumping up and down. It was crazy." 
The Tri family is just one such group within the Peltier corner. After all. the Notre Dame family extends throughout the nation, and who can help but like this 22-year-old outfielder who etched his name all over the Notre Dame and national record books? In his junior year at Notre Dame, Peltier set single-season records in batting average (.446), doubles (32) and RBI (93). For career bests. Peltier topped the Notre Dame books with a .406 batting average, 60 doubles, 28 home runs and 202 RBI. And remember, he set these records in only three years. 
In fact, Peltier's career batting average is fifth best in NCAA history. His mark of 32 doubles in a season, furthermore, is third-best in the country. When you post numbers like that. alumni will notice and follow your progress. "Probably the best move I ever made was coming to Notre Dame," says Peltier, sitting in the television room in LaFortune Student Center. "There are so many opportunities, and I learned that this summer. Traveling on the road this summer to different towns, alumni in the area would take me to lunch and treat me like family. 
"I know people around the country are watching my stats and pulling for me. I just hope I don't let them down." From how he has performed so far in the minors, Peltier need not worry about that. In the Pioneer Rookie League in 1989, he hit over .400 at the Ranger's affiliate in Butte, Mont. His coaches were impressed enough to let him work out at the Hanger's spring training camp the following year, and due to his success there he moved up to the Texas AA League in Tulsa. During that season, Peltier hit .279 with 11 home runs and 55 RBI, but in the month of August, when the Rangers' General Manager was watching, he hit near .500. Peltier's manager there, Tommy Thompson, told him that if the manager was promoted to the Rangers' AAA club, he would take Peltier with him. 
Thompson got promoted. 
''I've really been fortunate because they're moving me up quick," says Peltier. "I could be in single-A right now. I'm thankful that the Rangers think what they do of me." The fact that Peltier is also academically conscious makes his 
see PELTIER I page 16 

The bowl situation: here are a few predictions on a 'ridiculous season' 
The college bowl 

scene is becoming ridiculous. Bowls should be rewards for excellent seasons, not cash cows which can feed the coffers of deficit-ridden athletic 
Rene Ferran budgets. Moreover, 
Sports Writer fans are not willing to tune in to watch two mediocre teams battle in Shreveport, 
Tucson, or Anaheim, as evidenced by falling ratings. 
However, it does make for an interesting exercise to find attractive matchups. Here then are what I think the bowl confrontations should be. Two things to remember: 1) there's still plenty of time for some team-Stanford for one comes to mind-to come along and mess up the works; 2) I'm the one who picked Oakland in six. ALOHA (Dec. 25; Honolulu, Hawaii): An Associated Press report has Syracuse going to the Aloha. and its opposition will be Indiana. The Orangemen will proceed to show how over­rated Indiana was. BLOCKBUSTER CLASSIC (Dec. 29; Hollywood, Fla.): The newest addition to the bowl parade, South Carolina, the regional draw, will be pitted against the Texas A&M Aggies. Texas A&M has a legitimate Heisman candidate in running back Darren Lewis. The Gamecocks-who lost to The Citadel earlier in the year-aren't in the same class as the Aggies, as Texas A&M easily will prove. FREEDOM (Dec. 29; Anaheim, Calif.): Representatives of the Freedom Bowl have been following the Oregon Ducks since mid­October. The Ducks have not disappointed, and Bill Musgrave's "Quack Attack" will handle an Ohio State team still reeling from losses to Iowa and Michigan. INDEPENDENCE (Dec. 29; Shreveport, La.): 
see BOWLS I page 17 









