

VOL. XXIII NO. 23 WEDNESDAY , SEPTEMBER 26, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

AP Photo
Hussein supporters 
Jordanians carry a banner of Saddam Hussein during an anti-U.S. demonstration to protest the blockade against Iraq which they claim is also blocking food for babies and small children. 

Saddam: 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­Iraqi President Saddam llussein said in a message to Amflricans broadcast Tu11sday that President Bush was sending their sons to a war more terrible than Vietnam. 
In a 75-minute address taped last week, Saddam warned that if Bush were to launch war against Iraq, "it would not be up to him to end it." 
Sitting at his desk with an Iraqi flag at his side, 
Notre Dame to host national conference on alumni service 
By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame will host the first nationwit;le conference on alumni volunteer service from September 30 through October 2. 
According to Peter Pranica, assistant director for Alumni Clubs, The James 
F. Andrews Conference signifies a trend of greater involvement by alumni in service projects throughout the country. 
The conference was initiated by Notre Dame, and is directed by Pranica and Kathleen Sullivan, coordinator of Alumni Community Service. 
According to Pranica, the purpose of the conference is to allow the colleges and, universities participating to "create a database" of information, allowing each to know what alumni programs others are in-


Iraqi war would be worse than Vietnam 
Saddam said he was addressing his message to the American people to explain the truth behind Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion and occupation of Kuwait. 
The rambling address. 
• Saudis expel embassy workers/ page 6 
peppered with references to Allah and his teachings, repeatedly accused Bush and Kuwait's rulers of plotting to impoverish his country and steal its oil. 
Bush is "placing you in a critically embarrassing situa­
volved in. 
Pranica said Notre Dame alumni were sparked to com­munity service in a number of ways. One example is the Sum­mer Service Project, which is sponsored by the Alumni Asso­ciation but performed by the students. The positive feedback alumni received from the stu­dents inspired the alumni to volunteer themselves. 
Another example was the adoption of St. Anne's Home for the Elderly by the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee. Once again, "the students led the alumni" into volunteering because of the students' enthusiasm. according to Pntnica. 
Pranica said the alumni found such experiences "invigorating". and wanted to do more in a "hands-on" capac­ity. He stressed that alumni programs contribute "to the betterment of both the people being served as well as the alumni providing the service," some of whom are often far 

East Germans scared by unification, leader says 
EAST BERLIN (AP) -The last leader of a sovereign East Germany said Tuesday his peo­ple are truly afraid as they pre­pare to join the competitive, free-thinking and robust society next door. 
Lothar de Maiziere, in a wide­ranging talk with The Associated Press board, said his nation's 16 million people will need help to thrive in a new world based on initiative and free enterprise. 
He said East Germans, forced to live in a Communist society for four decades, have grown accustomed to a life in which their futures -and their jobs -were largely preordained by the government. 
Although most East Germans desperately desire the German unification that takes place Oct. 3, de Maiziere said they realize they will be expected to take control of their individual des­tinies. 
"The future in the past meant the future prescribed by the Politburo," he said. "Now the people see their future is not a prescribed time, but a free time. This is something people 
along in their professional ca­reers yet have not contributed to their communities. 
Pranica emphasized that Notre Dame is considered "the leader" in service, and that other schools lookin~f to start or expand alumni service pro­grams "are looking to Notre Dame for guidance." He noted that many of the schools at­tending "are excited about the Andrews Conference." 
University President Father Edward Malloy, a member of President Bush's Points of Light Initiative, will address thE) con­ference, and a keynote speech will be given by Thomas Morris, an associate professor of phi­losophy at Notre Dame. 
James Andrews was a 1961 Notre Dame graduate and co­founder of the Universal Press Syndicate. His wife, Kathleen, established a fund in 1981 which promotes 155 Summer Service Projects organized by the 200-club network of Notre Dame's alumni association. 
~'
... 

Saddam Hussein 

did not learn, and they are afraid of that." 
• Bush urges treaty ratification/ page 6 
He said the government of a united Germany must have a "strong social consciousness" to help East Germans make the transition and avoid becoming a second-class population. 
De Maiziere, a 50-year-old lawyer, will turn over to West Germany the leadership of his nation in just eight days. 
He was East Germany's first freely chosen leader and guided it through a rocky, six-month period of tough negotiations on the terms and timing of unifica­tion. 
He said he has made no deci­sion on whether to accept one of the four new Cabinet posts that will be filled by East Germans in the newly expanded government of West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl. 
But de Maiziere said he has viewed his role as prime minis­ter as that of a lawyer repre­senting a very large client, and he would accept a similar role 
tion ... on the edge of a bottom­less abyss," by defending un­democratic governments like those of Kuwait, Saddam said. 
"Bush, ladies and gentlemen, is sending your sons to war for no purpose save fatal arro­gance." 
Saddam spoke in Arabic. His remarks were translated with English subtitles supplied by Iraqi authorities. 
"Bush wants to bring back the sorrows of America and humanity by repeating the Vietnam experience, only this 

The Observer/ScoH McCann


Picking posters 
Max Gronan helps junior Dave McMahon sort through a stack of posters to find the one he's looking for. 
in a united Germany. 
He defended his people, who critics say will be bringing nothing to a united Germany but debts, social problems, a questionable work ethic and a crumbling economy. 
He said East Germans did not choose their system, which was imposed by the Soviets and re­mains a legacy of the war started by the Nazis. The na­tion, de Maiziere said, is part of German history and the cradle of the culture that gave the 
world  Bach,  Goethe  and  
Handel.  
He  said  the  former  

Communist secret police that entwined the nation for 40 years remains one of the old regime's "most difficult lega­cies." 
Tens of thousands of people worked for the dreaded secu­rity apparatus, which compiled intimate dossiers on 6 million people. 
He said German law enforce­ment officials should have ac­cess to those files to punish people who committed crimes 
see GERMANY/ page 4 
time in a more radical manner and more violent and more ca­sualties," Saddam said. 
The four major television networks broadcast excerpts of the tape on their evening news shows. 
Only CNN honored Saddam's request to show the whole tape, scheduling a 1 a.m. EDT broadcast. 
Saddam, dressed in a dark suit rather than the military uniform he often favors, taped 
see SADDAM I page 7 


------~--------------·------------------------------------------------------------~-------­
INSIDE COLUMN 

The unethical 
don't deserve 

to govern 
How disturbing it is when a former Demo­cratic vice-presiden­tial candidate an­nounces that the per­sonal moral and ethi­cal beliefs of a politi­cal candidate have nothing to do with his Christine Walsh 
or h~r performance in Business Editor 
public office. 

It is even more amazing how a politician as well versed as Geraldine Ferraro could make such a blas­phemous statement at an institution which prides itself on fostering the development of moral and ethical citizens. 
Specifically, Ferraro was referring to the Gary Hart incident during his presidential candidacy. The Miami Herald was wrong to make such an issue of the alleged affair, said Ferraro, as she proceeded to point a disapproving finger at the press in general. Ferraro claimed that there are aspects of a public figure's life that should not be privy to the media. 
Whether the Miami Herald's allegations were true or not, said Ferraro, does not matter because a candidate's personal code of ethics does not have a direct relation to how the ca,:didate will negotiate with the Soviets or conduct domestic policy. 
I wholly disagree. One's moral beliefs­cannot be separated into public and private entities. A person is either moral or she is not. One who behaves unethically in her per­sonal life can hardly be expected to act ethi­cally in any context. 
The Congress appeared 'morally outraged' when it became aware of the Iran-Contra affair, but has anything been done since then to guarantee that such in­
fractions by government officials do not oc­cur again? The answer is rightly no, for it is not the sole responsibility of positive law to ensure that public officials behave ethically. 
The only way the electorate can insure that government is conducted with any de­gree of ethical standards is to elect moral and ethical politicians. How do we judge who is ethical and who is not? Inadequate as it is, we must rely largely on information we receive {from the media) regarding a candidate's public, and more often in the 1980s and 1990s, personal character. 
If someone is cheating on his or her spouse, I would view as highly suspect that person's ability to honestly conduct matters of state. Ethics for this type of person be­come a platform whereby he or she can ap­pear to act morally and ethically when it is advantageous to do so, which is not ethical conduct at all. 

When prominent public figures say it is acceptable to lead a morally 'duel life' they condone corrupt politics, and I say these people have no place in governing this coun­try. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
---Ih-e-O.bse..-. -~~er­
--.1..-=Y~ -· 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's Staff Ad Design VIewpoint
Kelly Clair Becky Pichler News Mario Siguenzo Kim Sindair Carolyn Amann Kerry Clair Kathy Welsh Paul Pearson Jean-Philippe Thole Mike Owen Maria Blohm Scoreboard 
Scott Brutocao Accent Sports Paige A. Smoron Mike Kamradt Systems John Fischer Mark Sloan Melissa Cusack Production Mike Murphy 
Ann Buff Circulation 

Wendy Cunningham Graphics Bill O'Rourke 
Michael Muldoon Matt Novak 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD 
Alexander 
Men firing submachine guns massacred 26 Solzhenitsyn's proposal to laborers at a ranch in western Colombia on Tuesday, an replace the Soviet Union with an all­official in a nearby town said. Slavic state is destructive and Twenty-four workers were rounded up, taken to a soc­disrespectful to the country's other cer field and shot as they huddled together, an official in ethnic groups, President Mikhail the town of Candelaria said in a live broadcast interview Gorbachev said Tuesday. Solzhenitsyn, with the radio chain RCN. the Nobel Prize-winning author who The town government spokesman, Jorge Ramirez, said was expelled from the Soviet Union for in the interview with the radio chain RCN that two peas­treason in 1974, made his proposal in ants on a road near the ranch were shot to death by the an article published a week ago by two Soviet newspa­killers as they fled in three vehicles. pers. In his frrst public comment on the article, Gorbachev Witnesses said the killers wore uniforms like those of told the national legislature that Solzhenitsyn was an Colombia's anti-narcotics police, RCN said. "undoubtedly great man," but "his views on the future of Both leftist guerrillas and right-wing death squads our multinational state are unacceptable." often disguise themselves in police uniforms. 
NATIONAL 
Crime laboratory results given to police One major witness was allowed to testify in investigating five student slayings at the University of secret and one refused to appear voluntarily as a hearing Florida failed to link any of several suspects to the began Tuesday on conflict-of-interest allegations against killings, a newspaper reported. It's uncertain whether the Neil Bush, the president's son. The only thing missing was test results received last week actually cleared any the center of all the attention. The federal Office of Thrift suspects, or if they just failed to support existing Supervision is trying to bar Bush from the banking and suspicions, The Gainesville Sun said in its Wednesday savings industry for his alleged actions as a director of editions. Police last week increased night patrols in the Silverado Banking, Savings and Loan, which failed in late area where the college students were slain. The tests 1988 at a cost to taxpayers of $1 billion. didn't link any of the eight to the crimes, the newspaper 
said. 
INDIANA 

A 45-year-old Mount Auburn man was in jail Tuesday facing a murder charge in connec­tion with the Sunday night murder of the woman he had married on Friday. Larry Evans was ar­rested Monday and was being held in the Wayne County Jail on a charge of murder, said Wayne County Sheriff Dennis Andrews. According to sh­eriffs reports, Evans notified the Cambridge City police department Monday morning that his wife, 35-year-old Brenda Evans, was dead. 
The harvest moon, whose yearly rise traditionally captures the attention of both lovers and farmers, will shine a little later than normal this year. Indiana University astronomers said the harvest moon -the full moon nearest the au­tumnal equinox-usually comes in September, but this year the fabled moon will rise the night of Oct. 3-4.Researchers said the harvest moon is special because it rises early in the evening night after night. 
OF INTEREST The Management Club is sponsoring a Bilingual tutors are needed. La Casa de Amistad 
MARKET UPDATE 
NYSE Index 171.03 • 1.69 S&P Composite 311.32 .. 3.67 Dow Jones Industrials 2,485.64 • 32.67 
Precious Metals Gold +$13.6!lo $ 403/oz. 
Silver+ 12.5¢ to$ 4.915/oz. 

ALMANAC 
On September 26: 
eln 1789: Thomas Jefferson was appointed America's first Secretary of State. 
eln 1955: Following word that President Eisenhower had suffered a heart attack, the New York Stock Ex­change suffered its worst price decline 
since 1929. eln 1962: The television comedy "The Beverly Hillbillies" premiered on CBS. 
eTen years ago: The Cuban gov­ernment abruptly closed Marie! Harbor, ending the "freedom flotilla" boatlift that resulted in 125,000 Cuban refugees entering the United States since the previous April. 

graduate and law school panel discussion Thursday from 
7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. in Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Students from both schools and admission counsellors will give advice to students wishing to enter law or grad­uate school. 
Freshmen registers will be distributed today and Thursday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the Information Desk of LaFortune Student Center. 
The league of United Latin American Citizens {LULAC) at Notre Dame will be having its first meeting at 7:30p.m. tonight at Nieuwland Science Hall {Room 343). 
is looking for Notre Dame students to tutor Hispanic-American children in the South Bend community. An or­ganizational meeting will be held Thursday at 3:00 p.m. Meet at LaFortune Information Desk. For more info contact Patricia at 283-4308. 
Senior portraits are still being taken this week. Sign up at LaFortune Information Desk for an appointment. 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College Relations Committee will meet tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center. 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 26. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
60 

FRONTS: 
COLO WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure 
A
® © ~ ~ m 0 0 X 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Yesterday's High: 67 Yesterday's Low: 51 Nation's High: 100 
(Borrego Springs, Ca.) Nation's Low: 3 1 (Lewisburg, W.Va.) 
Forecast: Sunny and pleasant today with a high in the mid-70's. Clear and mild tonight with a low in the mid-50's. Sunny and warmer tomorrow with a high in the upper 70's. 

Malloy assists Pope John Paul II with report on Catholic colleges 
By BRADLEY GALKO bution to the Church. . . it pre­basically positive in orienta­
Assistant News Editor pares men and women ... to tion." In fact, the final docu­assume positions of responsi­ment includes 11 norms. down bility in the Church. Moreover, from 72 in earlier versions. 
Pope John Paul II released his by offering the results of its "These General Norms are
Apostolic Constitution on 
scientific research, a Catholic based on, and are a further de­Catholic Universities Tuesday, University will be able to help velopment of, the Code of
which University President 
the Church respond to the Canon Law and the
Father Edward Malloy assisted 
problems and needs of this complementary Church
in revising. 
age." legislation," the document
Malloy was one of three North Malloy said the document reads, "(They) are to be applied 
American representatives 
"recognizes the significant role concretely at the local and
elected onto a 15 member 
played by lay people, (and) is regional levels ... (and) will be
commission to assist the 
strong in ... affirmation of valid for all Catholic
Vatican in revising a draft doc­
academic freedom." It concurs Universities and other Catholic ument released last November that "lay men and women are Institutes of Higher Studies in
by the World Congress on 
assuming important functions the region." 
Catholic higher education. 
and responsibilities for the di­"I don't expect any significant 
The congress, which con­
rection of these (Catholic) changes at Notre Dame either
sisted of Catholic educators 
Institutions." in written material or how wefrom around the world, includ­The document adds, "every do things," said Malloy of theing Malloy, submitted their rec­Catholic University ... pos­newly published norms. "Theommendations to the pope on sesses the institutional auton­document reinforces the direc­the proper mission and norms omy necessary to perform its tion we have been taking for aof Catholic universities after functions effectively and guar­long time." 
their meeting in Rome last antees its members academic The Apostolic Constitution
April. 
freedom, so long as the rights of also stressed the role of "1 think that the quality of the thH individual person and of the Catholic Universities in promot­document improved dramati­community are preserved ing pastoral ministry and evan­cally (from rough draft to final within the confines of the truth gelism in the Church. Malloydraft)" said Malloy. He also said and the common good." also said it promoted a positivethat the document, which has Malloy also said the document and friendly relationship 'be­bHen nine years in the making, is ecumenical in its treatment of tween local bishops and
"broadened the perspective 
other religions. "Non-Catholic Catholic institutions. 
that the people in Rome had 
members," it reads, "are Malloy was joined on the
about Catholic education." 
required to respect the Catholic commission by two other U.S.
"(It) recognizes the significant 
character of the University, educators: Father Josephrole Catholic universities play in while the University in turn O'Hare, president of Fordhamthe lifH of the Church," hH said. 
respects their religious liberty." University; and Sister SallyThe document reads in part, 
Other strengths of the Furay, vice-president and"Through teaching and re­
Apostolic Constitution, accord­provost of the University of San search, a Catholic University ing to Malloy, include the fact Diego. Furay was the onlyoffers an indispensable contri­that it is "short, readable, and woman on the commission. 
The Observer, 
it's more than a job, it's an adventure! 


Student "Jump Start" Computer Classes 
Sponsored by: 
Office of University Computing 
Problem: •Paper due by 12:00 noon 
• Must use word processor 
I· YOUDON'TKNOWHOW!!I 
Solution: • OUC Student Training Program 
• Learn Macintosh and DOS word processing applications 
Call: • Information Resource Center 239-8111 for information and registration 


·~. 

1lt 
AP Photo

Jackson at Mohawk camp 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson is escorted by Canadian soldiers after he tried to pass an Army barricade and visit a Mohawk Indian group at Oka, Quebec Monday. 
Counselors: Most campus rape victims know attackers 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON most women do not fight back News Writer because they know the guy. Psychologically they are hurt 
Acquaintance rape is the much greater (than physi­most common type of rape on cally)."college campuses, according to Metzler then gave some char­Mickey Franco, a staff member acteristics of acquaintanceof the University Counseling rapists. Metzler said, "There 
Center, and April Metzler, an is no set way to identify ac­intern at the center. quaintance rapists, but there The two held a presentation are certain clues to identify on the issue of sexual aggres­this type." Some of the charac­sion and rape on college cam­teristics a person should look puses Tuesday. for are emotional abuse, neg­"One out of eight women by ative talk about women in gen­the time they graduate from eral, physical violence, or in­
college will have been raped," timidation. said Franco. "One out of four Metzler stated, "Basically,will have been raped or forced we're talking about manipula­to fight off an attack." Metzler tive behavior here." She told 
said 18 is the age at which females to listen to their "inner most women are likely to be voice." raped. Franco added, "Be aware how Franco and Metzler gave the boundaries can be violated, 
definition of rape. According to verbally or physically. Violation the Indiana Criminal Code, of boundaries is subtle, but it's rape is a Class B Felony if a there." 
person knowingly or Metzler advises rape victims intentionally has sexual not to blame themselves or intercourse with a member of deny that the rape has oc­the opposite sex through use of curred. According to Metzler, force, or if the person in not friends of rape victims should 
aware that intercourse is believe, listen and comfort the occurring, or if the person is victim. They should also en­mentally incapacitated so as courage the victim to report the not to give consent to sexual crime, call a rape crisis center, intercourse. and seek medical and 
To be considered a Class A psychological treatment. 
felony, the rapist must use or Franco and Metzler concluded threaten to use deadly force the lecture by urging people to with a deadly weapon, or must join community organizations. bodily injure the victim. They suggested the Campus Al­Acquaintance rape is defined liance for Rape Elimination and as a rape by someone the vic­encouraged victims to call the tim knows. Date rape occurs SOS Help Line at 289-HELP. when two people interact at a Metzler also suggested students social event ending with "one use Safewalk. She said, "It's not person forcing the other to the ultimate solution, but a 
participate in.. .intercourse resource." against his or her will." The presentation was spon­
Franco and Metzler also said sored by the University Coun­date/acquaintance rape are the seling Center and the Year of least violent types of rape. Met­Women Committee. zler stated, "'Most of the time 
---~ 

Wife, lawyer claim POWs still being held in SE Asia 

By DAVID KINNEY News Writer 
American prgoners of war still remain captive in Southeast Asia, according to the wife of an unconfirmed POW and a lawyer who brought a POW case to court. 
This issue was discussed Tuesday at a presentation sponsored by the Student Union Board called "Missing in Action." The presentation fea­tured Ann Hart, the wife of POW Thomas Hart, whose plane was shot down over Laos in 1972, and Mark Waple, a lawyer who presented over­whelming evidence in a case concerning the POW issue which he brought against President Reagan and the U.S. government. 
Continual confirmed sightings of prisoners and past missions planned to retrieve POWs make it clear that American men are still held captive, according to U.S. government for failing to protect the rights that were due the POWs and their families as provided by the Hostage Act and the Fifth Amendment. 
The suit was dismissed when the defense convinced the court that the issue was a political question and that Waple and Hart were attempting to dictate the foreign policy of the President rather than simply attempting to protect rights. 
The case came about as a re­sult of both the overwhelming amount of evidence proving the existence of POWs and from the problem faced by Ann Hart and others after their relatives were declared POWs. 
"Family members were not provided with all the informa­tion," said Hart. Upon the ex­amination of bones found at the crash site. the U.S. government claimed that Thomas Hart was dead. Further analysis rebuked this conclusion, yet officially, Hart was no longer missing. 
Much of the blame, said the 

Waple. However, he added, the speakers, falls on the U.S. gov­
APPhalo
Arrested 

U.S. is unwilling to attempt to ernment. There was a 
solve the problem. "concerted effort," said Hart "to 
Portland police take one of many demonstrators into custody Monday during a protest of Vice-President 
Waple, Hart, and several prevent that ( the return of

Dan Qualye's campaign visit. At least 21 people were arrested during the melee which included the use of 
firecrackers, smoke bombs, and balloons filled with paint that were tossed at the police. 
others filed a suit against the POWs) from happening." 
Germany 
continued from page 1 
for the secret police, and to help others whose lives were ruined by it. 
But there should not be wide public access because the in­formation contained in them could be damaging, divisive and distorted, de Maiziere said. 
About 5,000 secret police workers were used exclusively to listen to telephone conversa­tions. he said, and the details in the files not only contain politi­cal views but reveal whether people were faithful to· their spouses. 
Each file on a particular per­son also contains, on average, the names and activities of 40 to 50 other people who came in contact with that person. 
De Maiziere said he chose not to read his own file when ques­tions arose about whether he cooperated with the secret po­lice, but allowed respected leaders to do it for him. He was subsequently cleared. 
He also said he hoped for a political solution in the Persian Gulf crisis, and believes a 
united Germany will refute crit­ics who say it is too preoccu­pied with itself to assume a role of global leadership. 
He credited President Bush, former President Reagan and Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev for creating the political climate that made German unity possible. 

Focus 
on 
America's 
Future 
Help Prevent Birth Defects """ Support the 
'3i'~!9tl~!J2~!!'~ 

.:-::::\·.::.:::.J>:::_::::· /::: :::::_}:\::-:>:.·..:::::::::/:~\::::::::::(/:<:>I::.i<:;::::}:!r<:: ..: . :·_:::::·::.-:;<:::>:. ·:·.·. . . . . . . . :··:.:..._.:: ..: . . . . 
>!( :'(:,J,' ';f: :' !:11!,/i!!~~~~~~~N MEE~It~~J.h''h 
·. ·. ··:·..·.: ·.·:-:-: ·.. ·... ..:···..··,: 

Basement of Lafortune 12:30-5:30 Mon-Sat 
We Deliver daily to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross campuses 
Visa/Mastercard 283-4242 Closed home football Saturdays 
THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED BY THE PUBLISHER 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page·S 


Magellan satellite finds old lava river on Venus 
PASADENA, Calif. (AP) -The Magellan spacecraft's "jazzy" pictures of cloud-covered Venus show windblown dust deposits, a crater the size of Los Angeles and a solidified lava river 200 miles long, scientists said Tuesday. 
"Believe me, it's giving us a revolutionary new view of Venus," said Brown University geologist Jim Head, a Magellan scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. 
With Magellan only 10 days into Its formal 243-day mission to map the planet's surface with radar, Head advised: "Don't touch your dial." 
"We think we have a block­buster fall season," he said at a news conference. 
"These are extremely jazzy images," said Gordon Pettengill, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology scientist who leads Magellan's radar science team. 
Magellan has relayed pictures of many lava flows, cinder cones, collapsed craters and other volcanic features. 
So "there is an excellent pos­sibility there is active volcanism somewhere on the planet," although Magellan hasn't yet seen one, Head said. 
During the news conference, NASA also displayed a com­puter-generated videotape of three-dimensional images showing Venus from the per­spective of someone swooping down to and around a crater on its surface. 
"We're definitely not in Kansas anymore," Steve Saunders, Magellan's chief sci­entist, said as he played the videotape. 
Magellan formally started its $7 44 million picture-and map­making mission Sept. 15, two weeks later than planned be­cause engineers temporarily lost radio contact with the spacecraft twice during August. 
By Wednesday, Magellan had used its radar to peer through Venus's thick clouds during 82 orbits, Saunders said. 
"The spacecraft has been very well behaved," said chief engineer John Slonski Jr. 
He said a backup computer that played a role in the radio blackouts still malfunctions oc­casionally -"reminders the computer isn't completely well" -and contact might be lost again. 
The cause of the problems remains unknown. Suspicion focuses on possible damage to electronic components that happened when Magellan started orbiting Venus Aug. 10 and on "noise" or static in the wiring linking its computers, Slonski said. 
The most stunning picture released Tuesday was a mosaic, or combination of numerous individual pictures, showing an area of Venus nicknamed "the crater farm." Three large me­teorite impact craters, one of them 30 miles wide, are visible in the image, which covers an area the size of Wyoming. 


Olympic exchange 
Two youngsters and U.S. Sen. Sam Nunn, 0-Ga., exchange volleys of confetti Monday during a ticker tape parade through Atlanta. The parade was held in celebration of the 

If you were one of the many crazy but enthusiastic people who signed up on Activities Night to work for 
The Observer 
Then we want YOU! 
If you are still interested in working for the only publication to cover both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's on a daily basis, then come to an informational meeting on 
Wednesday, September 26 at 9 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, First Floor LaFortune 
And if you didn't come see us on Activities Night but would still like to work with us, come to the meeting. More crazy people are always welcome. 

~ 

i 
.• 

Saudis expel 12 Jordanian diplomats 
AMMAN, Jordan (AP)-Saudi Arabia expelled 12 more diplomatic staff members from Jordan's consulate and em­bassy Tuesday, and Jordan re­called its ambassador in protest, the Foreign Ministry said. 
The Saudi government's order left a skeleton staff of four employees each in the Jor­danian embassy in Riyadh and its consulate in Jiddah, accord­ing to the announcement read on state Jordan Radio. 
No comment was available 

immediately from Saudi author­
ities. 
Naser Batayneh, Jordan's ambassador to Saudi Arabia, was recalled to protest the "inexcusable" Saudi action, the Jordanian announcement said. 
Last week, Saudi Arabia ex­

pelled 20 Jordanian embassy 
and consulate employees for 
activities "incompatible with 
their status" -a diplomatic 
euphemism for espionage. 
Saudi officials said the 

diplomats were spying on mili­
tary installations in collabora­
tion with Iraq. The Saudis ex­
pelled 46 of the 50 Yemenis at 
the embassy in Saudi Arabia for 
the same reason. 
Jordanian Foreign Minister 
Marwan Kassem denied the 
spying report, but several Jor­
danian officials, including a 
Cabinet minister, privately con­
firmed it. 
The expulsions showed Saudi 
irritation with Jordan's pro-
Iraqi stance following the inva­
sion and annexation of Kuwait 
last month. The Saudi govern­
ment also was unhappy about a 
conference of radical Palestini­
ans in Amman last week at 
which calls were heard for sui­
cide attacks against the U.S. 
military buildup in Saudi Ara­
bia. 
lAMERICAN 
<J/CANCER
fSOCIETY~ 

Bush urges Senate to approve German unification treaty quickly 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Bush urged the Senate Tuesday to swiftly approve a historic treaty to end the division of Germany, 45 years after the defeat of the Nazis. 
At a ceremony in the Rose Garden, Bush called the agree­ment "the culmination of more than four decades of Western resolve and determination, from the darkest hours of the Cold War to the bright new horizons that stretch before us." 
The accord formally relin­quishes all rights and responsi­bilities over Germany by the four victorious allies in World War II. It was signed in Moscow on Sept. 12 by officials from the United States, Soviet Union, Britain and France. 
The treaty must be ratified by the four allied powers before their rights in Germany are formally terminated. However, the four countries have agreed to "suspend" their rights on Oct. 1, two days before the merger of East and West 
Germany. 
In the transmittal letter to the Senate, Bush said, •"It is wholly fitting that Germany formally and irrevocably achieve its unified status at the earliest possible moment, unfettered by four-power rights, shared by the Soviet Union, which are now outmoded and unnecessary." 
He said the treaty "represents a major achievement for our German allies, who have not forgotten the past or the role Germany once played in the horrors of 1933-45, but who have demonstrated over four decades of steadfast support for democracy and the Western alliance what the world can expect from the united Germany." 
After the defeat of the Nazis, the four allies divided Germany and its capital into four occu­pation zones, which became East and West Germany and East and West Berlin. 
Aside from ending the divi­sion of the country, the treaty calls on the Soviet Union to complete the withdrawal of its estimated 370,000 troops from what is now East Germany by 1994.U.S., British and French troops will remain in Berlin during the interim. 
In his remarks, Bush said the treaty "will end the artificial division of Germany and Berlin and it will restore to Germany sovereignty over all its territory and end all remaining four­power rights and responsibili­ties." 
"This agreement clears the way to achievement of the goal we Americans have long shared with the German people, a united, democratic and sovereign Germany," the presi­dent said. 
He congratulated West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and the German people "for keeping their dream of na­tional self-determination ever alive." 


Eli Lilly and Company is a research-based corporation that develops, manufactures, and markets human medicines, medical instrument systems, diagnostic agents, and animal health products. Lilly is a Fortune 500 company that has maintained record sales and earnings for 29 consecutive years. The company has a presence in more than 130 countries. Corporate headquarters are located in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
We will be speaking with interested students about opportunities for Careers in Information Systems. 
The Lilly systems organization offers analysts the opportunity to develop and maintain many business/scientific systems in a multi-vendor environment 
!

including IBM, DEC, Apple, Hewlett-Packard, and Cray. 
Lilly representatives from the Systems Division will be on campus: 
Thursday, September 27 7:00 -9:00 p.m. LaFortune Student Center Foster Room, Third Floor 
I: 

This presentation is geared toward students who are MIS, CAPP, Math/CC, or EE/Computer Sequence majors and for students with· strong computer classwork experience. 
! Lilly representatives will return to campus for interviews on Wednesday November 7, 1990. 
Refreshments will be provided. We look forward to discussing your opportunities in the systems field. 
Eli Lilly and Company 
-! 

an equal opportunity employer · 
.........................................................................................
~ 
GENEVA (AP) -The virus that causes AIDS is likely to have spread to at least 10 million children by the end of the century, the World Health Organization said Tuesday. 
An additional 10 million chil­dren will have lost their parents to the deadly disease, a WHO official said. 
Dr. Michael Merson said most victims would be in the Third Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
Merson told a press confer­ence that WHO only recently started compiling statistics on childhood cases because the upsurge in infection among women, and hence their off­spring, was still relatively new. 
AIDS destroys the body's im­mune system. The HIV virus is 
He added that scientists did not know why so many children escaped infection from their mothers. 
The WHO statement said an estimated 400,000 children had developed full-blown AIDS since the epidemic began a decade ago. Nearly 90 percent of the cases were in sub-Saharan Africa. 
The statement said that dur­





World, where AIDS would be­spread through sexual contact, ing the next 10 years, the dis­
come a major child killer, re­shared syringes and contami­ease was expected to push up 
vnrsing progress made in im­nated blood. It often is trans­infant mortality rates by 50 
proving health through vacci­mitted from a mother to her percent in parts of Africa. 
nations and other child care unborn child, although occa­In addition to the young vic­
programs. sionally can be spread through tims, 800,000 adults were also WIIO forecast HIV, the the mother's milk during thought to have contracted the !Iuman Immunodeficiency breastfeeding. disease, the statement said. Virus, would spread to 25 to 30 Merson, head of WHO's anti­million people by the year AIDS unit, said 30 percent of Merson said that in some ur­2000. Previous projections of 15 infants born to infected mothers ban areas of Central and to 20 million did not take were HIV-positive, and four­Eastern Africa, the virus may children into account. a fifths of those young sufferers have affected one in four statement said. died before age 5. adults. The U.N. agency estimates 8 Of the remaining 70 percent, Only 283,000 AIDS cases have 
to 10 million people, including 3 many were likely to become or­been officially reported to the 
million women of childbearing phans, placing a huge strain on Geneva-based WHO because of 
age, may already be infected the scarce resources of poor widespread under-reporting by 
with the virus that leads to countries, he said. its member countries. 
APPhoto

Tutu honored 
Archbishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa receives an honorary doc­torate of humane letters from the University of Missouri-Kansas City. 
Saddam 
continued from page 1

ON-CAMPUS RECRUITING/TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30 
his address in response to an eight-minute message delivered by President Bush unedited on state-run Iraqi television 10 days ago. In that speech, Bush said Saddam had brought his people to the brink of war. 
Although Bush told the Iraqi people his administration had no quarrel with them, Saddam said, "We have evidence that 
President Bush was himself in­volved in the Iran-gate or Iran­Contra conspiracy against Iraq in 1986 when he was Reagan's vice president." 
As vice president, Bush was 

WE'RE NorJusr 
..-..-RI,CA'S BIGGEST 
privy to the Reagan administra­tion's decision to sell weapons to Iran -which was engaged in war with Iraq -in an effort to win freedom for American 
hostages held by pi:o-Iranian radicals in Lebanon. 
The United States gave im­portant help to Iraq, however, when in 1987 it put Kuwaiti tankers under the U.S. flag and 

W 
e're one of the largest and for a wide variety of talented INS CE COMPANY. 
protected them against Iranian attacks in the Persian Gulf.

most dynamic corporations college graduates with degrees in 
Saddam accused Bush of in the world. A leader in financial business, math, finance, computer 
lacking faith in God, and of "promoting a form of neo­

services. science and liberal arts, to name a 
Nazism" by styling himself as In fact, The Prudential is the few: 
the leader of the free world. Congress, too, was involved in

largest institutional investor in the ACCOUNTING & FINANCE 
a conspiracy against Iraq long nation with $200 billion of assets INFORMATION SYSTEMS 
before the Aug. 2 invasion, Saddam said. Lawmakers

under management. MARKETING & SALES 
wanted to impose economic And we have all the resources ADMINISTRATION 
sanctions against his country, under the influenced of the

for your success. The Prudential offers one of the 
powerful "Zionist" lobby of In-house training. Outside best benefits pa;ckages in the 
Israel's supporters, he said. He challenged Bush, again, to

seminars. Courses in public business world, too. 
an international television de­speaking, supervisory skills, and Find out all we really are, and 
bate so he could tell the world the facts about Iraq's actions

business writing. State-of-the-art meet with our campus recruiter on 
and so the American leader technology. Advancement Tuesday, October 30. 
could learn about his inten­tions.

opportunities that take you For additional information, please 
"If Bush has truth on his side, through management. 
why should he evade debate?" Iraq's detention of Americans 

All because we're committed to 
and other foreigners "as guests 

;~:~o;~~;~t;;~ * 
in houses of our staff" is in the best interests of the United
your success. 

Our diversity translates into the 
States because it could prevent

The Biggest is 
a disastrous war, Saddam said. 

following exceptional opportunities 
U.S. officials say Saddam is holding 93 Americans, some of

Looking for the Best. 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
them at key military and finan­cial installations, as "human shields" to ward ofT attack. The State Department has de­nounced the action in strong terms. 



PORTRAIT TAKEN AND WANT TO BE INCLUDED IN THE DOME AS A MEMBER OF THE CLASS OF 1991, MUST SIGN UP FOR 
A SITTING TO BE TAKEN 
NO LATER THAN THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27. 
SIGN UP ON THE 3RD FLOOR OF 
LAFORTUNE FOR AN APPOINTMENT 
TIME. 

ABSOLUTE LAST DAY!!! PHOTOGRAPHER WILL NOT RETURN!! 

~~-----~--~------~~------­
Wednesday, September 26, 1990 The Observer 
page 9 

Mulroney faces awesome range of worries in new political season 

TORONTO (AP) -Conserva­
tive Prime Minister Brian Mul­
roney heads into the new politi­
cal season with an awesome 
array of worries ranging from 
rebellious Indians and unpopu­
lar taxes to threats of a 
breakup of the confederation. 
Mulroney is in big trouble 
with voters, scoring 14 percent 
or less in the polls. But the op­
position Liberals have been un­
able to capitalize on Mulroney's 
growing unpopularity and were 
drubbed in two recent provin­
cial elections. 

Many Canadians feel the country is leaderless and adrift. 
Both Mulroney and Liberal Party leader Jean Chretien slipped out of sight for most of the summer and both may ulti­mately suffer for that. 
Mulroney's government is the most unpopular since the Gallup organization began tak­ing polls in the country 50 years ago. The polls say the Progressive Conservatives are favored by only 20 percent of the population. 
At the end of July, Gallup asked Canadians who would make the best prime minister -Mulroney, Chretien or socialist New Democratic Party chief Audrey McLaughlin. 
Of those questioned, 30 per­cent chose Chretien, 18 percent McLaughlin and 14 percent Mulroney. Thirty-eight percent rejected all three or said they didn't know which one they liked. 
"There is a conjunction of events that has made the public 
• 
Wide selection of Mexican and American food and beverages. 

• 
10°/o discount on food purchases with ND/SMC and Holy Cross student, faculty and staff ID.* 

• 
Conveniently located in Indian Ridge Plaza near Phar Mor and TJ Maxx. 


Hours: 

Mon.-Thur. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.& Sat 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-to p.m. 
American Express, VISA, 
Master Card accepted. 
: •Offer good thru September . . only at the Grape Rd. location.. 
rather cranky about politicians 
in general, more so than 
usual," said Ron Watts, a pro­
fessor of political science at 
Queen's University and director 
of the Institute for Intergov­
ernmental Relations. "We are 
going through an unusually bad 
patch." 
The bad patch includes: 
• 
A country sliding into reces­sion. 

• 
Failure of the Meech Lake agreement to get Quebec to sign the constitution. 

• 
A standoff between Mohawk Indians and the army over land rights. 

• 
A new 7 percent goods and services tax scheduled to go into effect in January on virtu­ally everything. 

• 
The commitment of Cana­dian ships and fighters in the Persian Gulf crisis. 

• 
A series of patronage ap­pointments to the Senate, in­cluding Conservative Nova Sco­tia Premier John Buchanan, currently under criminal inves­tigation. 


Quebec Premier Robert Bourassa has formed a com­mission to study what steps the French-speaking province should take next -indepen­dence, sovereignty in associa­tion with Canada, or some other form of relationship with the central government. A re­port is due next spring. 
To make matters worse, Mul­roney's former Quebec lieu­tenant, Lucien Bouchard, be­trayed him and formed a sepa­ratist Bloc Quebecois in the 

~~21a~~ ~will 
(Sorry there's no national monuments in the vicinity!) 
.L!ouE., 
\ljou.'t 'J'ti£ndj_ 
COMMUNICATION & THEATRE ~ PRESENTS 
iW~~~ 
BY EURIPIDES 
WASHINGTON HALL LABORATORY THEATRE 
THURS., OCT. 4 8:10PM FRIDAY, OCT. 5 8:10PM SAT., OCT. 6 8:10PM SUN .. OCT. 7 3:10PM WED.. OCT. 10 8:10PM THURS., OCT. 11 8:10PM FRIDAY, OCT. 12 8:10PM SAT., OCT. 13 8:10PM SUN., OCT. 14 3:10PM 
House of Commons dedicated to 
independence for Quebec. 
Mulroney dismisses the bad 
news in the polls. 
"What matters is where you 
are on election night, not some 
two or 2 1/2 years before," he 
said. 
But Mulroney's low profile for 
much of the summer has led 
many Canadians to feel he has 
been avoiding the tough ques­
tions. 
"It seems to have been an eternity this summer, and through all this, Mr. Mulroney has pulled a disappearing act," said Liberal Jean-Robert Gau­thier. 
Chretien, whose showing in the polls has slipped since he won the Liberal leadership in June, also is suffering. 
Bad news for the Conserva­tives usually means good news for the Liberals. But not lately. The fallout has become impos­sible to read. 
Both parties were thrashed in the Ontario provincial elections in August. The socialist New Democrats ousted the Liberals from the government of Canada's richest province. And in the Manitoba provincial elections a week later, the Con­servatives won a majority, shoving the Liberals into third place behind the New Democrats -who are to the left of the Liberals. 
Ontario New Democratic Party leader Bob Rae profited from voter unhappiness with Liberal Premier David Peterson. 
DIRECTOR 
REGINALD BAIN SET & LIGHTS 
KEVIN DREYER 
COSTUMES RICIIARD DONNELLY 
STAGE MANAGER TONY BOSCO 
TICKETS: $5, $4 STU/SEN CIT. WED THU &SUN AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT LAFORTUNE TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARDNISA ORDERS CALL 239-8128 


Viewpoint 
page 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS 

Parietal hours make academic pursuits possible 
Dear Editor: these social highlights, students sponses include alarming inten­ment recommends, "... co-res­Obviously, the administration 
Scholastic's recent article, have 14 hours of visitation time tions: identiality be implemented as cannot be held responsible for "Sexuality : A Report on the each day. During these 14 "I came to college for women soon as possible." Co-residen­the social shortcomings of the Report" portrays student gov­hours, students have infinite and liquor!" tiality means infinite visitation students. It can only attempt to ernment and a significant por­opportunities to experience the "A chick is getting drunk, and and therefore infinite disrup­foster a healthy environment in tion of the student body as ob­more mundane aspects of ev­you're scoring points with her tion. Again, to indulge their ob­an atmosphere conducive to sessed with sex and uncommit­eryday life with members of the when 2 a.m. rolls around and session with sex, and alarming learning. Therefore, social ex­ted to education. The student opposite sex. her friends tell her it's time to number of students ignore the tremism must yield to academic government committee's sug­Whether or not parietals are go. And I lose my chance to hit need for quiet. The student pursuits. As a premier Catholic gestions rest on false assump­designed to prevent sexual ac­a home run." government hides their obvious university, Notre Dame must 
tions concerning the impact of tivity is irrelevant. Parietals intentions behind noble claims strive to achieve healthy sexual parietals and single-sex dorms provide students with the time In reference to co-ed dorms, of improving male-female rela­relations in an atmosphere of on male-female relations. In an and privacy to pursue an edu­the article states, "Single-sex tions. Students must accept re­academic excellence and rever­attempt to build a new­cation. Relative quiet settles dorms are one of the main rea­sponsibility for any failure in ence. Gomorrah, student government over a dorm only after visiting sons for unhealthy male/female male-female relations instead John Gorkowski advocates policies destructive hours expire. During visiting relations at the University, said of using single-sex dorms as a Albert Stumm to the pursuit of knowledge and hours, study and sleep are con­76.6 percent of respondents to scapegoat for their lack of so­Grace Hall privacy. stantly interrupted by noisy co­the survey." Student govern-cial initiative. Sept. 23. 1990 
The article states, "79 percent eds. Extending parietals would of students surveyed did not further diminish sleeping time 
feel that Notre Dame provides a for those who have early morn­Inconsistencies prevail in inclusivity debate healthy environment for ing commitments. In short, interaction with the opposite parietals enable hundreds of sex. Of these, 75.7 percent cited people with varying schedules Dear Editor: Identifying the University with Victory March which eluded Ms. 
I found Heidi Hansan's the female gender is at least as
parietals as a major reason." to live in the same building. Hansan. She would be satisfied 
column concerning sexism in offensive as identifying the
Why don't students hold them­Opposition to parietals stems by inserting the phrase, "While 
the Notre Dame Victory March football team with the male
selves responsible for this un­from the student body's obses­her loyal sons and daughters
(The Observer, Sept. 21) very gender. How can the men on
healthy environment? The sion with sex, not from some march on to victory." This 
enlightening. I, like countless this campus help but feel
University provides a dance lofty ideal to promote better change does not go far enough club, movies, the Senior bar, An relations. Several students op­other male chauvinists, thought alienated by this careless in addressing the problem of 
that the phrase "while her loyal application of outdated sexual
Tostal, Beacon Bowling, peri­posed University policy during sexist language. It is distressing 
sons go marching onward to roles? I propose that we change
odic dances and a myriad of candid interviews with the au­to many males that throughout
victory" was appropriate the Alma Mater to Alma Mater 
other activities. In addition to thors of this article. Typical re-the fight song, the personal
considering the male­et Pater, and change the first 
pronoun of the university is dominated football hierarchy verse to "Notre Dame, Our 

"her" instead of "his and her"

Notre Dame 'conglomerate' still refuses to allow women on Parent." 
or "its." A commitment to 

the football team. Not only do I 
nondiscrimination requires that

shows heart where it counts join Ms. Hansan's call to amend Of course, some people whose the word "her" be replaced by a the fight song, but I also gender sensitivities have not 
more neutral possessive. Thus,

Dear Editor: in the event of an accident on demand that Coach Holtz been elevated by the Year of 
could the Year of Women 

I take extreme exception to campus? Certainly not. recruit a female quarterback so Women might point out that the (which will presumably be Flo Hoelker's Inside Column there will be no doubt as to Alma Mater identifies our uni­
followed by a Year of Men)

which appeared in the Sept. 20 Hoelker challenged his read­whether loyal daughters are versity with the lady on the 
begin a new tradition of 

issue of The Observer. Hoelker ers to look at his marching to victory as well. golden dome. However, it 
completely gender-inclusive

denigrated Notre Dame as a "conglomerate," and he asked should be obvious that even a language at Notre Dame. heartless "conglomerate" be­them, "tell me what you see." I would also like to take this university dedicated to the cause the University wouldn't Well, I did look around, and I opportunity to apply my Blessed Mother must embrace pay the hospital bill of a man saw an administration and staff heightened awareness of school its entire family-both male and stricken by a heart attack in the who have devoted their lives to song sexism to point out female. Accordingly, I propose library. educating the close-knit another disturbing instance of the construction of a second 
Imagine the thousands of community that is Notre Dame. discrimination: the Alma Mater. golden dome to be topped by a people who live, work or simply After every game, students and statue of St. Joseph. 
Roger Hipp 

pass through Notre Dame each Mark Cawley alumni insensitively sing, Finally, I wish to point out 
Dillon Hall 

year. Must Notre Dame be Grace Hall "Notre Dame, Our Mother." some sexist references in the Sept. 23, 1990 
compelled to care for each one Sept. 20, 1990 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Lf3 DAY5,MAN. ANO I'U. TeL-L YOU ON~ 7HIN6­I SUR£ 0/I?N'T 
BA!<'6AIN FOR TH/5 CRAP fAJH&N I UPP&I?.' 

I WA5 60NNA 13& AU I COUW Be, UNP&RSTANI?~ I WAS60NNA GCTA FR£13 aJUCATION, 5E3e TH& /A/0/<.IJ}, £EARN HO/AJTO PRO­GRAM aJMPf/T8RS! ITWAS TWAY~ ARMY! NOBOI7f 5AII? ANYTHING AfJOUT AGTUAUY 
HAVING TV 
FIGHT! 
'Anybody who can still do at 60 what he was doing at 20 wasn't doing much at 20.' 
Jimmy Townsend 

Accent 
Wednesday, September 26, 1990 page 11 
Kolman expects Year of Women to affect all 
Agenda to include admissions and scholarship 
KELLEY TUTHILL 
accent writer 

While a Notre Dame woman might ha..ve a more difficult time winning the Student Body presidency, acknowledges Eileen Kolman, she also em­phasizes Geraldine Ferraro's words: "If you don't run, you can't win." 
But the student body's atti­tude toward women mirrors 


/ 
~. 

Eileen Colman has assumed the duties of Dean of Freshman Year of 
Changes in attitudes towards 

Studies just in time for the Year of Women. 
women will not simply happen because "a person at the top Notre Dame's and even soci­ety's, adds Kolman. Women contributing to the community in the role of Student Body 
President and as Commence­ment speaker would be indica­tions of positive symbolic 
changes at the University. 
"It takes a certain amount of stamina. courage and convic­tion for women to be successful here," adds Kolman, chair of Notre Dame's Year of Women committee and dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. 
While today's men and women are reexamining tradi­tional roles and stereotypes, Kolman senses that Notre Dame students are lagging behind in discussing relevant gender issues. 
Certain types of behavior to­ward women have to be made socially unacceptable before at­titudes change, she says. The sponsoring committee hopes to encourage discussions about male-female relationships and how Notre Dame women are treated, so that the year has lasting effects on the atmo­sphere on campus. 
At male-oriented Notre Dame, effecting these changes could prove challenging. 
makes a statement." Instead, Kolman says, the community must change its views of what is acceptable behavior. 
The Year of Women commit­tee's goals for the coming year are fourfold. 
The committee hopes to im­prove relationships between male and female students. Changes in women's roles in the past twenty years is an impor­tant issue. 
The change in women's roles is especially relevant at Notre Dame where the "tradition is so male," she said. 
Another goal of the commit­tee is to spotlight accomplish­ments of women in the Notre Dame ~:;ommunity and in Ameri­can society. 
To help accomplish that goal, Kolman has asked departments to make an extra effort to in­clude women when they are planning lectures or panels . 
A third goal of the year is to examine scholarship and other issues concerning women, con­tinues Kolman. 
Finally, the committee hopes to look at whether Notre Dame is "as inclusive as we want to be," she adds. 
Policies concerning gender­inclusive language and admis­sions policies will be examined. 
The committee, however, is not a policy-making body, she says. 
"It is clear that one of the biggest social revolutions in the past 20 years is the change in women's roles," she says. For that reason, a year focusing on women is important and timely 
Although it is called the Year of Women, Kolman emphasizes the Year's activities are also relevant to the men on campus. 
In the past there was the no­tion of the "leading spouse" and the "trailing spouse," says Kolman. It appears that these roles will not be the same in the future and "men will have to come to terms with that." 
Men have to ask themselves questions like "would they be willing to leave their job if their wife had a better (job) offer?" she notes. 
The committee has decided that the target audience for this year's activities is the student body. Emphasis will be placed not only on lectures, but on dialogue and entertainment, she said. 
Although she said she does not know what the result of the Year will be, "I can't help feel­ing that Notre Dame will be a better place for publicly dis­cussing these issues." 

Readers fight back: Chuck gets viewer mail 
What a great weekend. 
Amongst other activities (There's a strict Observer policy against using "amongst", but I don't care. They don't pay me.) I saw another fine performance by the Notre Dame drama de­partment. Drink a lot of milk for that ulcer, Lou. 
After the game, I asked a Morrissey Man for a column topic. "Beer and football," he said. "What else is there?" 
Good point. But it's hard to talk about football all the time (wait, what am I saying?) so let's go to another highlight of my weekend. 
I got some mail. 
Getting mail never used to be so exciting, but there's some­thing about being a freshman that makes it a highlight of your day. It also can be a very emotional thing. 
Says one letter: "We just didn't want to send you any mail because we weren't getting any ourselves." 
My favorite letters are the anonymous ones that beg for a free T-shirt. 
One also asked "Dear Chuck, what is one hour martinizing?" They tell me it has something to do with laundry, so you're ask­ing the wrong guy. Try Dr. Head. 
lntnresting stuff, but the fo­cus of this wnek's column is a letter from an anonymous se­nior woman with dating trou­bles. 
"Dear Chuck,"she writos,"is it really truo that there's nothing better than being a senior guy or a freshman girl (yes, it's true) and there's nothing worse than being a senior girl or a freshman guy? 
"Having been a freshman girl and now a senior girl, I think this is quite accurate. What's your perspective? Signed, Wondering and Inquisitive." 
Easy answer. 
A poll of 10 freshman guys in my dorm showed strong sup­port for this idea: senior women should go out with freshman guys. That way everyone gets dates. The women could even drive us to an off-campus formal. 
By the way, Wondering, what are you doing Friday night? 
Expanding on that topic, I talked to a number of seniors willing to advise freshmen looking for their first SYR date. My editor, Colleen, has one word for the freshman girls out there: "dogbook." 
One problem that seems to come up a lot is the infamous HTH (know this acronym). 
A self-proclaimed Girl Guru in my dorm, called "chick magnet" by his friends, said not to worry. "When a girl says she has a boyfriend back home, it means nothing. Getting a new one is like switching majors." 
What about double majoring? "Nah, she'd have to be age­nius to pull it off." 
Other seniors were adamant about the importance of taking social dance. Otherwise, they said, by far the best place for meeting members of the oppo­site sex is at the dining hall. 
"Sit down and tell them you write a column and need story ideas," suggests one senior. Guys: If you don't actually write a column, that's OK. No one knows what I look like. 
I also asked my informal board of senior advisors to talk about their best SYR. None of them could remember it. 
And now, in a drastic break from Fresh Perspective's tradi­tion of hard news, here's the first installment of Chuck's Gossip Report: 
-A freshman from Columbus, Ohio was assigned the phone number 1492. An operator called by yours truly refused to 
Chuck Young 
Fresh Perspective 
comment and referred me to the Chief Office Operator. She also refused to comment and referred me to Jerry at the Housing Office. Says Jerry, "You guys are really reaching for material over there, aren't you?" 
-Over the weekend, the weather became cold and over­cast (no kidding, Chuck). In an annual reaction, the adminis­tration formed a committee to study this problem and take ac­tion in nine months if it per­sists. 
-Student body president Rob ~asin, in charcoal black pants and a blue blazer, introduced Geraldine Ferraro. An Observer employee noted, "He looked heinous and totally square, but I work here so you can't quote me." 
Asked to put the fashion statement into words, one ob­server said, ''I'm an incum­bent." 
Fred Tombar, student body vice president, stated; "The man's a trendsetter. But he's usually very conservative in his dress and in his actions." How unusual for a student body president of Notre Dame. 
-The widely advertised show­ing of "The Meaning of Ufe" was cancelled this weekend. Supposedly, the guy with the video took it to the Michigan State game, where the Irish were again victorious thanks to last-minute divine intervention. The theological implications are staggering. 
Please keep sending me mail.(I was going to put an exclamation point here, but my copy editor said they're reserved for war and national championships.) 
If we publish your letter, you'll receive a high-quality Fresh Perspective T-shirt (as soon as someone sends in a good design, anyway). 
It's a great way to put off doing your laundry. 
Letters to Chuck on hopefully really newsworthy topics should be sent to: Chuck, care ofThe Observer. Accent Department, third floor of LaFortune. 

WVFI Top 10 Albums 
1. 
Coffin Break-"Rupture" 

2. 
Precious Wax Drippings -11After History" 

3. 
Soul Asylum -"And the Horse They Rode In On" 

4. 
The Pixies -"Bassanova" 

5. 
Living Colour -''Time's Up" 

6. 
All -"Allroy Saves" 

7. 
Seizure-"Seriously Delirious" 

8. 
Snuff-"Snuff Says ..." 

9. 
Silverfish-"Cockeye" 

10. 
Wire Train -"Wire Train" 



-

The Observer Wednesday, September 26, 1990
page 12 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be

Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 

Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or  NEED 2 GA & 2 STU. TIX FOR  
NOTICES  LOST: TEMORARY ID & VALIDINE. PLEASE CALL WILL  roommate wanted to share two bedroom house. two minutes  GA Please call Matt X3024  PURDUE. CALL CHRIS X1067  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 2 PURDUE STUD. TIX  
AT 3028. THANKS IIIII!  from campus. 2730087  For Sale:  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  RITA 259-4947  
TYPING AVAILABLE  Tickets for all home games  GIVE ME A BREAKI  
287-4082  LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH  MALE ROOMATE NEEDED  call Joe X1688  I NEED 6 STANFORD AND  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE\111  
WATCH  FOR 2 BDRM APT  Monday -Thursday  8 PENN ST. GA's  I need 3 PENN STATE GAs  
WITH HEART-SHAPED  AT TURTLE CREEK  3:30-6:30 PM  CALL TIM #2704  together. You have seen all  
PRAYER MEETING  FACE.  277-8976  the games so far, let  
Thursdays @ 7:30  TUES. 9125 BETWEEN  WANTED: 2 GAs to tl'le  someone else see just ONEI  
Siegfried Chapel  SECURITY BLDG. AND  STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK  STANFORD game. Call E.J. at  Call Wendy at x4055. Thank  
?? call Eileen x4815  SO.  AVAILABLE NOW  272-4715.  HELP  you, thank you, thank you! I!  
DINING HALL EXTREME  271-1833 AFTER 7:00PM  *I need 1(one) PURDUE GA.*  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE.  Have 1 stud tix for home games.  #2185 DAN  
GRAD STUDENTS!!  IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL KATIE @2981  FOR SALE  leave message. best offer. 2735  NEED PURDUE GA'SI  
"Party Party" Lisa's Birthday Party !  WANTED  COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 19" COLOR TV, TWO  AIR FORCE TIX!! NEEDED 7 GNSTUD  I NEED 3 PENN ST GAs! WILL TRADE 2 AIR FORCE GAs & WILL PAY $$$1 MAURA 2928  STEPHANIE @ 4322  
Wilson Commons' Lounge  SEMESTERS $110, ONE  MONEY IS NO PROBLEM  NEED 1 STANFORD TIX x1813  
This Friday, Sept. 28  EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK  SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO  CALL JULIE X4975  Need 2 GA tickets for N.D./Purdue  
8:00 PM to 1:00AM  READING BOOKS AT HOME.  SEMESTERS $110, ONE  call277-4366.  
"Who's Lisa?, Who cares?"  CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. B-340.  SEMESTER $80.  I need 1 Miami stud.  NEED MIAMI STUD TIX  
Sponsored by the GSU.  COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­ x1640 Pete  Need 1 Stanford GA, Stan x2742  JOHN X1384  
BABYSITIER NEEDEDII  5959.  
All grad students and their  During home FB games  WILL TRADE MIAMI GA FOR 1  
significant others invited.  Call Steve at XI 037.  1980 PONTIAC GRAND PRIX  MIAMI STUD AND 1 AF STUD  WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S  
VERY GOOD CONDITION  271-8749  FOR 2 PENN STATE GA'S +  PLEASE HELP I NEED 4  
"Party Party"  AUTOMATIC, AM/FM STEREO  $$$-CHRIS 277-9363  PURDUE GA'S AND 4  
GRAD STUDENTS!!  WE NEED STANFORD  CASSETIE, POWER  NEED 2 PAIRS OF STANFORD  STANFORD GA'S CALL X4419  
TICKETS !Ill  BRAKES/STEERING. $895. 289­ GAs AND 1 STUD  $$$ PURDUE STUDENT TICKET  
If you can help us out, call  1440.  WILL TRADE OR SELL 1 MIAMI  NEEDED. CALL DAN x4110  
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING  Michelle x3879 or Julie x3851.  STUD 271-8749  MY PARENTS WANT  
237-1949  $$$ I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S\11  PURDUE GAs  
WANTED: Subway needs delivery  TREK 412 Bicycle very good  Need Miami GA's or Married  CALL KERRY x1852.  HELP ME, PLEASE!  
JUST SAY NO!  driver/counterperson for Notre  cond. 277-7262  Pairs  Ted x1942 or x3928  
Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's  Dame and St. Mary's. Uniforms,  Good$$$$  I NEED 4 G.A.s FOR THE AIR  
Books, corner of NO ave. &  meals, and hourly bonus.  Double papason couch  Mark 232-4589  FORCE GAME!!II PLEASE CALL  WANTED: Purdue & Stanford Tix;  
Howard. 233-2342  Appplicants must have  $100.00 O.B.O. call  NANCY AT 273-2024.  Students or GA's. Please  
dependable transportation. Call  273-0419 after 5:00p.m.  Need Purdue Tickets  Call x1840.  
BED & BREAKFAST  277-7744 for interview  call Joe or Glenn x3320  We need:  
OPENINGS FOR ALL ND  appointment.  FIVE FIVE FIVE FIVE  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
EVENTS  Two round-trip tickets to SEATILE  Purdue Stud Tix  
HEATED POOL, PRIVACY, &  WANTED: Subway needs night  for sale--$230 each.  NEED 1 AIR FORCE  Call Barb 4852 or Lisa 4868  
RELAXATION IN WOODED S.B.  closers for S.R. 23 store.  Leaves South Bend on 1 0/20 after  STD. TICKET  Future Domer  
SUBURBS. ONLY MINUTES  Uniforms, meals, and hourly  the Miami game and returns to SB  4 RELATIVES ONLY HAVE 3  Needs Miami Ticket--G.A. or  
AWAY FROM MALL,  bonus. Call277-7744 for  on 1 0/27. Call Carol or Julie at  CALL PAUL 1121  WEEKS TO LIVE II LET THEM  Student. She's my little sister and  
RESTAURANTS & NO.  interview appointment.  x4937.  SEE A NO FOOTBALL GAME  has only seen Navy and S.M.U.  
219-273-0388 OR 1-800-669  Desperaiely seeking Air  BEFORE THEY GO. SELL ME 4  Please help her see a real game.  
0388.  BABYSITIER WANTED: Looking  Force Tix-GA's and Student  AF GA'S-4 TOGETHER OR 2 + 2.  Call Elizabeth at X2830.  

 for someone to watch 2 small  I HAVE GA'S AND STUD TIX  Call x4808  CALL CHRIS X3309  
LOST/FOUND  children in my home. 4-8 hours a week.(flexible) wage negotiable. Transportation required.  TO EVERY GAME. CALL TOM AND LEAVE B.O. #3770  need two Purdue G.A.'s. Call Steve 273-9471  NEED PURDUE GAs or STUD.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
LOSTIII LOST\11 LOST\11  1 MIAMI STUD TICKET  WILL PAY$$$ BILLY 233-7817  Need a Purdue student ticket?  
RAY-BAN ARISTA  Need GAs for AIR FORCE and  Best Offer  I have one.  
OUTDOORSMAN GOLD  TENNESSEE Jackie x4112  283-4369  3 STUD MIAMI TIX  NEED 2 PURDUE STUD TIX AND  Call Chris at 288-3354.  
FRAMED SUNGLASSES AT THE  BEST OFFER  4 G.A'S CALL MARIA X3857  
MICH. GAME. VERY SPECIAL  Need Money ???  I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S  271-0836  NEED PURDUE TICKETS  
TO ME-GIFT FROM  Local Book Distributor Needs  FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE  NEW STRIP BAR TO OPEN IN  STUDENT OR GAs  
SOMEONE\1111 WIL OFFER  Help. Flxbl Hours. Many  NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­ Wanted: 2 tickets for Miami Game.  THEODORE'SII!  CALL x1517  
REWARD! CALL DIANA 284­ Opportunities. Call Mr. Turner  1364  Face value plus picture of  I need AIR FORCE GA's. If you  
5484.  288-1002 12-5 M-F  President Grant. 272-1981  can help me or want to become a  
part owner of the new bar, call  
FOUND: MALE WATCH AT  TOSHIBA 52" TV great cond.  NEEDED -2 PURDUE GAs  DAVE AT X2201.  H E L PIll  
MICHIGAN TAILGAITER 9/16  NEED A RIDE TO INDIANAPOLIS  cost $1100,1et go for $600  Call Tom at x1513  
CALL JOSE 283-1985  FRIDAY, 9/28. WILL PAY GAS  obo Sean @283-2025.  Need  NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY  
$. PLEASE CALL LISA,  PURDUE STUDENT TICKETS  WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS  
LOST: GOLD BRACELET  284-5506.  Call Maureen x1704.  PAYING TOP $$$$$  
WED. 9-19  For sale: Bianchi Nuovo 12 speed  WANTED: ONE PENN STATE  CALL JEFF@277-3998  
Please Return if found!!  Need ride to W. PA , E. OH, or  racing bike. Mavic rims, Shimano  STUD. TICKET. BEST OFFER.  HAVE PURDUE ST.TIX #1747  
X2728  Pittsburgh 10/5 returning 10/7.  600 components. In great shape.  CALL AMANDA X4953  ASK FOR LANCE  
Call and we can talk money. Mike  $250 or best offer.  I need two Stanford GA's BADII  
LOST: BLUE KODAK 11 0  -3528  Call Bob at x3588.  NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S  Parents will take back tuition  
CAMERA IN BLACK&BROWN  STU. TIX FOR SALE  if I don't come through!\111111  
CASE WITH EXTRA FILM,ETC. ­IN LAFORTUNE SAT. 9/15. I  I NEED AIR FORCE TIX  TICKETS  SELL US YOUR STANFORD  Dave X3024  Call Mike X3506  
HAVE SOME REALLY SPECIAL  STUD. OR GA'S  TICKETS!! (PLEASE)  Look! all I want is one  HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME  
PICTURES ON THE FILM THAT'S  CAN BE SEP. OR TOGETHER  Need $$$?Sell  We're desperately searching for 2  Stanford stu. (that's it)  BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S  
IN THE CAMERA. PLEASE CALL  WILL PAY ANY PRICE  your ga's to all  student tickets. If you have any,  Call Gerry x1832  CALL 273-1364  
AMY 284-4322 IF FOUND.  CALL MIKE -1731 PLEASE  home games.  call Julie x3851 or Michelle x3879.  
THANKS!  Call tom x1597.  I need Air Force student tixl  NEED MIAMI TICKETS????  
I have 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET  Please call Dianne at x4807  
LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST!  I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME  for sale Jackie x4112  ME TOO  
LOSTI  Christmas Help  GAMES.272-6306  
SET OF KEYS WITH THREE  National firm has many openings  Have 2 Purdue GA  NEED 2 STANFORD GA  4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami  
DORM KEYS AND THREE  available. $8.10  I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER $$$$$  Need 2 Stan GA  TRADE 2 AIR FORCE GA + $  fans that need humbling.  
OTHERS. DORM KEYS HAVE  s1arting. Gain great business  I need 2 GA's for EVERY home  TRADE? Rob 2463  MIKE 1158  
1013 ON IT AND THERE IS A  experience . Weekends and  gameII WILL BEAT ANY OFFERI  272-8954 Amy  
BOTILE OPENER KEY CHAIN.  evenings available.call 271-8699  PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$  Desperately Seeking 5 AIR  
IF FOUND, CALL MIKE AT 1788.  FORCE Ga's...will buy as many as  I NEED 2 PURDUE TICKETS,  NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S  
you have to sell. Please call mel  STUDENT OR GA-LAURA  CALLALEX X1068  
....... REWARD**..****  I need 2 GA's and 1 stud for  Need 1 student Penn State ticket  Angela @2496  X2894  
My license was losVstolen last  Stanford game!  for a future Domer. Please call  New York Attorney needs Stanford  
9/20 at The Commons. I need it  Betsy 283-3829  Pat at 273-9367.  Need:  need 1 purdue stu or ga  GAs. Will pay big $$$  
back so I can write checks, drink  x2633 jill  Call Paul at 201-334-3804 or  
etc....  caricature artist. call x2982  Need 2 Air Force GA's call  TICKETS FOR ALL HOME  Nancy at 277-2942.  
It is a Pennsylvania license.  Brian C. at x3546 or x3540  GAMES I  PLEASE HELPI....My parents  
PLEASE call Beth Bolger (the  need Pur GAs.  I NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUEII  
name on the I D) with ANY  CHILD CARE AND RIDES TO  CALL JOE X168S  call Jim x1495  CALL KATHLEEN AT 4081  
information. 288-0597  PRE-SCHOOL NEEDED FOR  WANT 2 PURDUE GA'S  Monday-Thursday  
CHARMING 5 YR. OLD GIRL.  DON'T BE A-CALL MIKE  3:30-6:30  ND Alum needs 3 GA tix for Penn  
FOUND ON WHITE FIELD:  NEED TO OWN CAR AND LIKE  AT2344  St. Call Jeff Walsh collect (602)  I NEED STANFORD GA'S  
KEYCHAIN WITH 2 ROOM KEYS.  CATS. $3.00 2HR. #287-3315.  257-5971,  CALL ERIK AT X2088.  
CALL LORI AT 284-5017 TO  need Air Force s1ud. tic.  II am-8pm, M-F.  
IDENTIFYIII  NEED AIR FORCE TICKETS  NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S  Brian x1066  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
$$$284-4350$$$$$ASK FOR  WILL EVEN PAY$. CALL  NEED STANFORD GNSTUD  NEED STANFORD and MIAMI  
lost my keys\1277-8379  JANET POO OR KRISTIN II  FRANKSTAR AT 289-4860  I need "4" GA'S for the PURDUE  Call Trace 289-3467  TICKETS -STUD'S and GA'S  
GAME. I will pay big $$$$. Call  Call Mary at 3816.  
LOST: 14k gold rope chain  DESPERATELY need PURDUE  Jeannie 284-4073.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
bracelet on Stepan Football  BICYCLE mechanic/sales person  GAsll! Paul x1626  Will trade 2 student tix  
field. GREAT Sentimental  wanted. Pro-Form Bike Shop, N.  for 2 GA's + add'l  WANTED-TIX  
Value. If found, please call  Ironwood Dr.  I Need 2 Miami Tickets  We have Student Tickets  cost for PU & Stanford. Marie 277­ MIA -N.D. GAME  
Cara at x3847.  (between Edison & S.R. 23) 272­ Students or GAs  to all Home games I I I  4221  CALL 800-323-7687  
0129.  Will Pay Top Dollar  ###  
LOST: class ring!  Call Eric x2095  Call  NEED 2 STANFORD GA's.  $$ALUM NEEDS 4 TICKETS$$  
class of '91 blue stone  FOR RENT  Cristina or JJ @ x4842  CALL x2094  FOR STANFORD, CALL COLLECT (416) 851-0817,  
277-9366  NEW YORK ATIORNEY NEEDS  AFTER 8:00 P.M., RENO.  
- HELPIHELPIHELPIHELPIHELPI  Studio Appt. Turtle Creek 10 min walking from campus.  MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR GA. WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL  I need 2 Purdue GAs xt640 Pete  I HAVE 2 PURDUE TIX FOR SALE ­CALL X2871  NEED 4 STANFORD TIX. CALL  
LOST  Available Nov. 1st 272-1981  SAM AT (201 )334-3804.  DENNIS COLLECT 914-294-6546  
CLEVLAND SAND WEDGE  NEED 4 GA's FOR PURDUE.  NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S  AFTER6PM.  
LOST ON SATURDAY-22 SEPT.  1991-1992 Reserve your  MIAMI TIX WANTED  CALL FRANK x1867.  LEAVE MIKE MESSAGE-1599  
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL  6,5,4, or 2 bedrm house.  $ STUDENT OR GA $  
JOHN @3245  Call Bruce: 234-3831 or 288­ (201) 334-3804  NEED FOR GA's FOR AIR  NEED 2GA'S FOR STAN AND  
HELPIHELPIHELPIHELPIHELPI  5653  FORCE. CALL FRANK x1867.  AIRFORCE MIKE-1625  see CLASS/page 14  

~----------~-------~-----------------------­ ---~---­ --~----~--­- ~ I  
Wednesday, September 26, 1990  Scoreboard  page 13  - 

BASEBALL STANDINGS  NFL STATS  A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
East Division  w  L  Pd  GB  L10  Streak  NFL  INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS  
Toronto 84 70 .545 z-8-2 Won2 Boston 82 72 .532 2 2-8 Lost3 Detroit 75 79 .487 9 6-4 Won2 Cleveland 74 8t .477 t0tl2 z-8-2 Wont Baltimore 7t 82 .464 t2t12 6-4 Lost t Milwaukee 69 84 .45t t4tl2 t-9 Lost7 New York 63 92 .406 2ttl2 3-7 Wont WaDIWIIon w L Pd GB L10 Streak x-Oakland 98 56 .636 z-6-4 Won1 Chicago 89 65 .578 9 z-7-3 Lost 1 Texas 80 74 .519 18 z-4-6 Lost 4 California 77 77 .500 2t z-4-6 Won2 Seattle 74 81 .477 24112 z-4-6 Lost4 Kansas City 72 82 .466 26 5-5 Lost 1 Minnesota 71 84 .458 27112 5-5 Won3 NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division w L Pd GB L10 Streak Pittsburgh 89 65 578 5-5 Won2 New York 86 68 .558 3 Z-4-6 Won1 Montreal 81 73 .526 8 z-5-5 Lost5 Chicago 73 81 .474 16 z-5-5 Lost 1 Philadelphia 73 81 .474 16 7-3 Lost1 St. Louis 69 85 .448 20 Z-4-6 Won1 WaDIWIIon w L Pd GB L10 Streak.Cincinnati 87 67 .565 z-6-4 Lost 1 Los Angeles 83 71 .539 4 z-7-3 Won1 San Francisco 79 75 .513 8 4-6 Won2 San Diego 71 83 .461 16 z-4-6 Lost6 Houston 70 84 .455 17 z-5-5 Lost3 Atlanta 63 91 .409 24 z-4-6 Won2 x-dinched division title z-denotes first game was a win Tuesday's Games AMERICAN LEAGUE Late Game Not lnduded Monday's Games New York 15, Baltimore 3 Baltimore 6, New York 3, 10 innings Cleveland 5, Boston 2 Kansas City 10, Oakland 3 Detroit 4, Seattie 1 Toronto 9, Milwaukee 5 Minnesota 4, Chicago 3 California 3, Texas 2 Oakland 5, Kansas City 0 Only games scheduled California 8, Texas 2 Toronto at Milwaukee, (n}Wednesday's Games Baltimore (Ballard 2-10} at New York (Cary 5-11), 7:30p.m. Cleveland (Candiot1l14-10} at Boston (Kiecker 7-9), 7:35p.m.  AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Quarterbacks Att Com Grogan, N.E. 52 33 DeBerg, K.C. 94 51 Kelly, Buff. 86 58 Schroeder, Raiders 54 28 Esiason, Cin. 90 52 Elway, Den. 101 58 O'Brien, Jets 100 55 Moon, Hou. 139 84 Tolliver, S.D. 70 33 Krieg, Sea. 79 51 Rushers Att Yds Thomas, Buff. 46 321 Humphrey, Den. 55 285 01«1te, K.C. 71 283 Butts, S.D. 58 254 Smith, Mia. 46 224 Stephens, N.E. 53 197 Fenner, Sea. 37 185 Brooks, Cin. 42 166 Bentley, Ind. 41 137 Williams, Sea. 37 130 Receivers NO Yds Hiii,Hou. 20 247 Johnson, Den. 18 290 Jeffires, Hou. 17 166 Jackson, Den. 16 224 Williams, Sea.(RB) 16 125 Thomas, Buff.(RB) 16 103 Brown,Cin. 15 283 A.Miller, S.D. 15 223 Metcalf, Clev.(RB} 15 131 Paige, K.C. 14 278 Givins, Hou. 14 248 Duncan, Hou. 14 140 Punters NO Yda Gr.Montgomery, Hou. 9 398 Kidd, S.D. 16 689  Yda 404 718 597 502 723 717 671 989 426 529 Avg 7fJ 52 4fJ 4.4 4.9 3.7 5fJ 4.0 3.3 3.5 Avg 12.4 16.1 9.8 14.0 7.8 6.4 18.9 t4.9 8.7 19.9 17.7 10.0 LG 60 57  TD 3 4 3 2 7 3 2 7 4 1 LG 60 !37 32 34 27 22 28 18 14 18 LG 23 49 35 41 16 14 142 30 35 !83 !80 26 Avg 442 43.1  lnt 1 0 2 1 6 2 1 7 3 4 TD 1 2 2 1 3 1 3 1 1 1 TD 0 0 0 2 0 0 4 2 0 2 3 0  For the week ending Sept. 22, 1990 School/Record votes 1. Notre Dame, 2-o-o (1) 1,478 2. Florida St., 3-0-0 (2) 1,397 3. Auburn, 2-0-Q (3) 1,384 4. Brigham Young 4-0-0 (4) 1,261 5. Tennessee, 3-0-1 (6J 1,188 6. Michigan 1-1-0 (7) 1,156 7. Virginia 4-0-0 (10) 1,106 8. Nebraska, 3-0-0 (8) 1,082 9. Oklahoma 3-0-o (11) 1,042 10. Miami, Fla., 1-1-0 (9) 1,034 11. Texas A&M 3-Q·O (12) 918 12. Washington 3-0-Q (21) 787 13. Houston 2-0-Q (14) 14. Illinois 2-1-Q (15) 621 -15. Ohio St. 2-0·0 (16) 595 16. Arizona 3-0-0 (18) 582 17. Florida 3-Q-0 (19) 525 18. Southern Cal., 2-1-0 (5) 518 19. Clemson 3-1-Q (17) 510 20. Colorado 2-1-1 (20) 493 21. Arizona St. 2-Q-0 (23) 281 22. Michigan St. 0-1-1 (24) 212 23. Arkansas, 1·1-0 (13) 155 24. Fresno St. 4-0-0 (-) 106 2!1. S. Carolina 3-0-0 (•J 84 ( ) -Last week's ranking AP  
Seattle (Hanson 16-9) at Detroit (Tanana 8-7), 7:35p.m.  Horan, Den.  10  430  58  43.0  
Minnesota (Tapani 11-7} at Chicago (Hibbard 13-9), 8:05p.m. Oakland (Welch 25-6} at Kansas City (Saberhagen 5-8}, 8:35p.m.  Donnelly, Sea. Wagner, Clev.  11 21  462 879  48 58  42.0 41.9  TEAM STATISTICS  
Toronto (Welle 11-4} at Milwaukee (Robinson 11-4}, 8:35p.m. California (McCaskill12-10} at Texas (Rogers 9-5), 8:35p.m.  Hansen, N.E. Stark, Ind.  15 8  626 333  51 54  41.7 41.6  AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE  
Tuesday's Games NATIONAL LEAGUE Late Games Not Included Monday's Games Atlanta 10, Cincinnati 0 Chicago 4, New York 3 New York 3, Montreal!Philadlelphia 3, Montreal 0 St. Louis 1, Philadelphia 0Los Angeles 7, Houston 5, 11 innings Pittsburgh 5, Chicago 3 San Francisco 3, San Diego 1 Los Angeles at Houston, (n) Only games scheduled San Diego at San Francisco (n) Wednesday's Games San Diego (Rasmussen 11-14} at San Francisco (Robinson 10.7}, 3:35p.m. Atlanta (Smaltz 13-10) at Cincinnati (Rijo 13-7), 7:35p.m. New York (Cone 12-10) at Montreal (De.Martinez 10.10), 7:35p.m. St. Louis (B.Smith 8-8} at Philadelphia (DeJesus 6-7}, 7:35p.m. Chicago (CoHman 0.0) at Pittsburgh (Walk 6-5}, 7:35p.m. Los Angeles (Morgan 11-14) at Houston (Deshaies 6-12}, 8:35p.m. LEAGUE LEADERS NAllONAL LEAGUE BBSIId on 415 at Bats AMERICAN LEAGUE G AB R H Pd. McGee Stl 125 501 76 168 .335 G AB R H Pd. Dyksb'a Phi 143 569 102 186 .327 BrenKC 137 530 81 175 .330 Murray LA 147 527 92 172 .326 Plmero Tex 145 562 70 181 .322 Magadan NY 135 421 69 135 .321 RHdsn Oak 130 466 112 149 . 320 Dawson Chi 139 500 67 158 .316 Trammell Det 142 548 70 169 . 308 GracaChl 148 557 70 175 .314 Boggs Bsn 148 593 85 181 .305 TGwynn SO t41 573 80 177 .309 CJamesCie 134 501 60 152 .303 Bonds Pit 144 496 103 153 .308 EMartinez Sea 141 479 70 145 .303 Sandberg Chi 148 589 t11 181 .307 Puckett Min 140 526 82 159 .302 LoSmlth Ad 127 435 64 133 .306 Burks Bsn 143 551 84 166 .301 Roberts SO 143 542 101 166 .306 DParkerMil 150 581 70 175 .301  Prokop, Jets 16 652 Gossett, Raiders 12 476 Johnson, Cin. 15 592 Kicking PAT FG Norwood, Buff. 6-6 7-10 Breech, Cin. 10.10 5-6 Treadwell, Den. 7-7 6-8 Stoyanovich, Mia. 6-6 6-6 Lowery, K.C. 7-7 5-6 Staurovsky, N.E. 5-5 4-6 Jaeger, Raiders 6-6 3-3 Leahy,Jets 6-6 3-4 Anderson, Pitt 2-2 4-5 Johnson, Sea. 5-5 3-6 NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Quarterbacks Att Com Testaverde, T.B. 61 38 Everett, Rams 100 59 Montana, S.F. 122 79 Simms, Giants 73 44 Wilson, Minn. 86 47 Rypien, Wash. 85 42 Dilweg, G.B. 60 34 Miller, Ad. 102 62 Peete, Del. 73 40 Cunningham, Phil. 95 60 Rushers Att Yda  58 54 70 LG 48 46 44 51 43 42 49 47 31 39 Yda 545 869 998 539 619 578 397 758 479 726 Avg  40.8 39.7 39.5 Pta 27 25 25 24 22 17 15 15 14 14 TD 5 8 5 3 7 4 3 3 4 4 LG  lnt 2 3 2 1 3 0 1 3 3 6 TD  OFFENSE Yarde Houston 1099 Buffalo 1039 Denver 1017 Kansas City 1016 Jets 953 Cincinnati 951 Miami 895 San Diego 895 New England 877 Seattle 845 Raiders 793 Indianapolis 688 Cleveland 679 Pittsburgh 541 DEFENSE Yarde Houston 676 Pittsburgh 740 Raiders 748 Miami 780 Buffalo 783 San Diego 813 Cleveland 838 New England 985 Denver 1004  Rush 149 436 329 345 366 300 344 361 257 364 339 177 168 207 Rush 220 256 251 257 308 211 356 351 385  Paea 950 603 688 671 587 651 551 534 620 481 454 511 511 334 Paae 456 484 497 523 475 602 482 634 619  
Home Runs Sandberg, Chicago, 38; Strawberry, New York, 37; Mitchell, San Francisco, 35; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 33; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 32; MaWilliams, San Francisco, 31; Gant, Atlanta, 29; Justice, Atlanta, 27. Rune Bat1ad In Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 114; JCarter, San Diego,1',4; MaWilllams, San Francisco, 114; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 113; Strawberry, New York, 107; Sandberg, Chicago, 96; Wallach, Montreal, 95; Dawson, Chicago, 94. Plc:Hng (12 Declalorw} Drabek, Pittsburgh, 2o-6, .769; RMartinez, Los Angeles, 19-6, .760; Cook, Loa Angeles, 9-3, .750; Gooden, New York, 18-6, .750; Tudor, St. Louis, 12-4, .750; Darwin, Houston, 11-4, .733; Boyd, Montreal, 10-5, .667; Burkett, San Francisco, 14-7, .667; Harkey, Chicago, 12-6, .667.  Home Runs Fielder, Detroit, 48; McGwire, Oakland, 39; JCanseco, Oakland, 37; McGriff, Toronto, 34; Gruber, Toronto, '30; Deer, Milwaukee, 27; RHenderson, Oakland, 27; BJackson, Kansas City, 26. Rune Bat1ad In Fielder, Detroit, 126; Gruber, Toronto, 113; McGwlre, Oakland, 107; JCanseco, Oakland, 95; DParker, Milwaukee, 92; Sierra, Texas, 91; Maldonado, Cleveland, 90; Trammell, Detroit, 89. Pitching (12 Decisions) Welch, Oakland, 25-6, .806; BJones, Chicago, 11-3, .786; Clemens, Boston, 2o-6, .769; Stieb, Toronto, 18-6, .750; King, Chicago, 11-4, .733; RRobinson, Milwaukee, 11-4, .733; Wells, Toronto, 11-4, .733; CFinley, Califomia, 18-8, .692.  Anderson, Chi. Johnson, Phoe. Broussard, Atl. B.Sanders, Det. Byner, Wash. Walker, Minn. G.Anderson, T.B. Toney, Phil. Tillman, Giants Craig, S.F. Receivers Rison, Ad. Ellard, Rams Rice, S.F. Sanders, Wash. H.Jones, Minn. Proehl, Phoe. Johnson, Oat. Rathman, S.F.(RB)  64 58 51 47 41 42 45 43 49 52 NO 19 11 16 16 14 14 14 14  263 210 187 186 182 179 173 162 135 131 Yda 223 313 271 197 243 190 152 77  4.1 3.6 3.7 4fJ 4.4 4.3 3.8 3.8 2.8 25 Avg 11.7 18.4 16.9 12.3 17.4 13.6 10.9 55  29 !22 24 24 16 21 13 20 12 18 LG 27 !50 42 t37 42 t37 16 t4  4 1 2 2 0 0 2 0 0 0 TD 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 0  Kansas City 1010 400 610 Jets 1013 447 566 Cincinnati 1061 263 798 Indianapolis 1065 292 773 Seattle 1114 403 711 NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE OFFENSE Yards Rush Pass San Francisco 1169 216 953 Rams t078 258 820 Philadelphia 1027 356 671 Atlanta 965 266 699 Tampa Bay 953 351 602 Minnesota 949 382 587 Chicago 924 532 392 Giants 906 371 535  
SPORTS CALENDAR Wedneedlly, September 28 Women's soccer vs. INDIANA-SOUTH BEND,5p.m. Thuredlly, September 27 No sports scheduled. Friday, September 28 Men's and women's cross country host NATIONAL CATHOLIC INVITATIONAL, 21314 p.m. Women's volleyball vs. PENN STATE, 7:30 p.m. Women's soccer at Indiana, 5 p.m. Men's soccer at Indiana, 7:30p.m. Saturday, September 29 Women's volleyball va. MIAMI (OHIO}, 7:30 p.m.  TRANSACTIONS BASKETBALL Natloml Baslultball ~latlon GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS-Traded Terry Teagle, guard, to the Los Angeles Lakers for a 1991 first-round draft choice. LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Traded Marc McNamara, center, to the San Antonio Spurs for future considerations. FOOTBALL National Football League DALLAS COWBOYS-Traded Steve Walsh, quarterback, to the New Orleans Saints for first-and third-round draft choices in 1991 and a conditional second-round draft choice in 1992. DENVER BRONCOS-Placed Tyrone Braxton cornerback, and Chris Verhulst, tight end, on injured reserve. Re-signed Rick Dennison, linebacker, and Bruce Plummer, cornerback. NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-Waived Tommy Kramer, quar1erback.  Punters Saxon, Dall. Landeta, Giants Amold, Del. Camarillo, Phoe. Fulhage, Ad. Barnhardt, N.O. Feagles, Phil. Mojsiejenko, Wash. Royals, T.B. English, Rams Kicking Lohmlller, Wash. Cofer,S.F. Davis, AU. Butler, Chi. lgwebuike, Minn. Jacks, G.B. Allegre, Giants Christie, T.B. Ruzek, Phil. Andersen, N.O.  NO 15 16 13 11 16 16 11 14 11 12 PAT 6-6 5-5 8-8 7-7 7-7 4-5 9-9 9-9 8-8 4-4  Vda 669 704 569 478 692 679 464 585 458 496 FG 7-8 7-12 6-7 6-8 6-8 6-6 4-5 4-5 4-5 5-5  LG 58 55 54 53 53 54 60 53 50 55 LG 55 52 51 52 48 53 46 55 43 41  Avg 44.6 44.0 43.8 43.5 43.3 42.4 422 41.8 41.6 41.3 Pta 27 26 26 25 25 22 21 21 20 19  Washington 889 Green Bay 860 Detroit 829 Phoenix 825 New Orleans 818 Dallas 639 DEFENSE Yarde Giants 609 Chicago 687 Philadelphia 742 Dallas 795 Minnesota 812 New Orleans 844 Tampa Bay 954 San Francisco 965 Phoenix 971 Green Bay 982 Detroit 993 Rams 993 Washington 1015 Atlanta 1127  284 297 328 344 357 199 Rueh 140 272 259 325 447 283 381 224 373 386 412 327 276 178  605 563 501 481 461 440 Pass 469 415 483 470 365 561 573 741 598 596 581 666 739 949  -...  

~­

The Observer 
page 14 Wednesday, September 26, 1990 
-Dallas' Walsh traded to Saints 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -The New Orleans Saints, with one quarterback a no-show and another struggling, traded three high draft picks on Tuesday to get Steve Walsh from Dallas. 
"I'm excited. I'm ready to go to work. It feels like draft day all over again," Walsh said during a Tuesday night news conference at the Saints' sub­urban New Orleans training camp. 
"I think he's a winner, but time will tell," Saints president and general manager Jim Finks said of the former University of Miami star. "If we didn't like him, we wouldn't have made the trade." 
"He's a good young player," Coach Jim Mora said. "He -proved it in college. He was one of the top players in the coun­try coming out of college. We think, because we made the trade, he has a chance to be an outstanding player." The Saints gave Dallas their No. 1 and No. 3 choices in 1991 and a No. 2 pick in 1992 for Walsh. Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said the No. 2 pick could be upgraded to a No. 1, de­pending on how well Walsh 
plays. ~_~ot The deal didn't involve hold­
out quarterback Bobby Hebert, who has consistently said he wants to be traded. 
To make room for Walsh on the roster, the Saints cut backup quarterback Tommy Kramer, signed during training camp after the Minnesota Vikings left him unprotected under Plan B. 
''I'm happy and excited," Walsh said after the trade was announced. "I have a great op­portunity and chance to make my career." 
Walsh will be competing for a starting spot with John Fourcade -currently the low­est-rated quarterback in the NFL. The third-string quarter­back is rookie Mike Buck from Maine. 
"I hope he doesn't think he's just going to come in and get the job because I have some­thing to say about that," Fourcade said. "Obviously I'm threatened. He's not a running back, he's a quarterback and a former No. 1. They're going to want him to play because they paid a lot of money for him. It's my job to keep him off the field." 
Mora said Fourcade will re­main No. 1 on the depth chart for now and that the coaching staff will start working with Walsh on Wednesday. Walsh will work with the team when it returns from three days off on Friday. 
The Saints and the rest of the NFC West have Sunday off. Mora said he thinks Walsh could be ready by the time play resumes against Atlanta on Oct. 7, but added that learning the Saints' system won't be easy. 
Mora also said he didn't think the Saints needed another quarterback and noted that Fourcade improved last Sunday. 
After two losses, the Saints defeated Phoenix 28-7 on Sunday. Fourcade threw his first touchdown pass of the season and his efficiency rating rose 11 points to 28.4, still the worst in the league. The Saints didn't score a touchdown in their first two games. 
"We haven't gotten the play at quarterback we'd like, and yet it's been getting better. We saw an opportunity to go out and get a good young quarter­back and we did it," Mora said. 
"I think they were looking for more depth at the position," Walsh said Tuesday night. "I'm not saying I expect to be put in against Atlanta in two weeks, but that's what I'm working for." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

All varsity rowers meet today in 104 O'Shag at 7:30 p.m. to organize for Pittsburgh. 
St. Mary's College Varsity Track meeting today at 7:30p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility for new and returning athletes. 
The Hapkido Club will meet Tuesday and Thursday at 8:30 p.m. rm. 219 Rockne Gym. Learn self-defense. Beginners welcome. For more information, call Ron at x3504. 
The ND/SMC Synchronized Swim Club is having its organizational meeting Thursday, Sept. 27th at 7 p.m; in Rolfs Aquatic Center. All interested please attend. QuestiOns call: Kristin at 3572, Jackie at 3821 and Debbie at 284-4379. 
ND/SMC Field Hockey will practice Tuesday and Thursday from 4-6 p.m. on the astroturf. For more information, call Suzanne at x4174. 
Irish Insanity will meet today at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium (117 Cushing). All are welcome. 
"Walk-Away" -Mary Jo Lambert, a staff professional speciali~t in the Department of Physical Education, will lead the noontime walking program on Thursd!J.y, Sept. 27th. Participants should meet in front of Rockne Memorial at 12:15 for a half-hour walk around the golf course. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will play IUSB at 4 
p.m. instead of 5 p.m. today on Alumni Field. 
Walsh, a first-round choice in the supplemental draft last year, backed up the Cowboys' regular No. 1 pick, Troy Aikman. Walsh, who led Miami to the national championship in 1987, started five games for Dallas last season when Aikman was injured. 

Walsh completed 110 of 219 passes for 1,371 yards last season. He threw five touch­down passes and nine intercep­tions. This season, Walsh was 4-for-9 for 40 yards. 
Class  ************************ PLEASE! I really, really need either 3 GAs or 1 GA & 2 STU for  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 AIR  Need PURDUE GAs and Stud tix. Please call Darrell at 283-3302.  PERSONALS  LIMITED ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR PURDUE VS NO GAME AT JAMISON INN. CALL 277·9682  
- continued from page 12 WILL TRADE SIX MIAMI GA'S FOR SIX BEITER MIAMI GA'S PLUS$$$ · • ALSO NEED 3 ~ST. GA'S FOR$$$ CALL GREG 2~75 I NEED 3 AIR F()9CE G.A.'S OR 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD. WILL PAY $$$$$$.CALL JOHN X1177. N.D ALUM HAS? PURDUE GA TIX. WILL TRAOttFOR 2 STANFORD OR PENN STAT TIX. CALL JOHN 20t-7JJ4-6313. $EX $EX $EX $EX $EX $EX HEY! I NEED 2 MIAMI TIXSI JASON X2099 Needed: 2 Air F. Stud.; 4 Air F. GA; 7 Penn St. Stud. Will trade Purdue Stud. or pay. Colleen 272-593& 2 Airtorce GAs needed; 1 Miami stud for sale,,x284-4109 "" .-~ Wanted 4 GA 1ix NDvs. MIAMI 1-800-243-4153 Ext. 2387 -Mickey --:""~ I REALLY NEED3 PENN STATE GA'SIIF YOU CAN HELP ME, CALL BRIAN X2fs3 I need MIAMI TIX -Chris 234·8891 I need 9, yes 9 Miami Ga's Karen x4806 NEED 2-3 STANF=ORD GA'S. $$$ JIM 271-1703. NEED 2 PURDUE GAs FOR MY PARENTS, WHO WILL PAY$. 273·0318 NEED PURDUE TICKETS CALL JOHN 258-0809 WANTED PAIR OR SINGLE MIAMI GA X1581 TOM '''I NEED TICKETS!''' I would be forever in your debt for 3 Air Force student tickets! I Call John at x1802 HAVE 1 MIAMI  AIR FORCE! call X1883 ........................ $$$$$ NEED 6 PURDUE GA'S CALL KATIE x3771 x3791 $$$$$ Don't let boilermaker fans (if there are any) have your Purdue STUDS! Sell them to mel X 4012 For Sale: 1 Sr Stud tic for all home games, incl. Miami! Call X3461 If no answer, leave message. I NEED PURDUE GA'S! CALL ERIN X3425 BOSS NEEDS MIAMI GA's Call Diane -273-9469 NEED TENNESSEE · NO TICKETS WILL SWAP PENN STATE FOR THEM. CALL 216­877-6042. FATHER GRADUATED NO 48 YEARS AGO AND HAS NEVER BEEN BACK. NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL COLLECT (404) 640-0464 BOB LYNCH. Have SR. Tix 3AF, 2 Penn 1 Stan, 1 Purdue Best Offer X4283 I need student & GA tix to both Purdue & Stan1ord Call Pat at X2763 i Have Penn St. Students best offer 273-1364 4 Miami GA's together for sale best offer by 10/5 call 273·1364 HAVE 2 PENN STATE GA'S AND 1 MIAMI STU TO TRADE FOR 3 STANFORD GA'S CALL ANTHONY x4239 Tix needed: 4 Purdue GAs Stanford Students Miami Students call X1772 HAVE 2 PURDUE TICKETS best offer X 1167 HELPIHELPIHELPIHELPIHELPI  FORCE AND 2 MIAMI GA'S HAVE TO IMPRESS GIRLFRIENDS PARENTS MONEY IS NO PROBLEMIIIII CALL JOE X1165 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S JOHN 272·7849 ##### I NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'SI CALL THERESA @ X36171 ##### HELP! MY IRISH FATHER AND TWO BROTHERS WANT PURDUE G.A.'S (I NEED 3) CALL 284-5461 A.S.AP.III FOR SALE UP TO 7 STUD. TIX FOR MIAMI • ALL SEATED TOGETHER CALL DAVID X3952 NEED PURD. STUD. TICKS. 234 -5840 JOHN I NEED GA TIX FOR PURDUE I CALL SHARON 284-5089 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S FOR AIR FORCE GAME IIIII CALL DENISE AT X4281 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 3 MIAMI TICKETS, STUDS OR GAS. CALL MIKE MURPHY 277-9365 WILL TRADE 4 PURDUE GA'S AND 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL BERT AT WORK AT 1-800·437-9318. NO/STANFORD NEED 2.TIX. CALL 412-339-0736. NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TIX. CALL KATE AT X4045. NEED MIAMI GA'SIIIIIIIIIII JUST WON THE LOTIERY-­I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKSIII PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE CALL CATHY AT 273-9624 I NEED STUD OR G.A. TICKETS FOR PENN STATE. CALL PAUL AT 271-9950.  2 PURDUE STU'S FOR SALE CALL ANDY 232-2586 I have 1 stud. ticket1or all home games except miami. Call Mark at 273-1659. I NEED ONE PURDUE STUD. TIK. FOR BRO. FROM CALIF. X1930 I Need STANFORD and MIAMI tix, student or GA's. Please call Betsy at 4858. &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& I NEED MIAMI STUDS/GAS I PLEASE CALL 2546 OR 3028 Need 4 Air Force & Stanford. Call Sprout, 287-9670 Need GA!STUDS for Purdue, Stanford, Air Force. Call Mike 271-8795 HELP!II need 4 GA's each for Stanford and Air Force. Please call Sandy x4121 I NEED PURDUE GA'S CALL DAN 234-8608 HAVE Stan. stud. Need Penn. stud. Will trade or buy! x1363 Need 4 Purdue tickets GA or student Steve x1369 TWO PURDUE TICKETS (MARRIED) FOR SALE(CHEAPI). CALL TODD 234-2180 AFTER 5 OR STOP BY CARREL 8141N THE LIBRARY DURING DAY. Will trade 2 Air Force GA's for 2 Stanford GA's or buy them outright. Dennis x2384 Need 4 Stan. tix Bobx2384 You should sell me 4 MIAMI GAs immediately! Pete x1745 I NEED 6 STANFORD G.A.s. CALL STACY 271-1953. I NEED PURDUE STUDENT TIX. CALL DAVE X1045. Hey! Hey! I need 3 or 4 PURDUE GA'S Call Mike at x2333 PLEASE HELP Ill I need 2 G.A's to the Air Force Game. Name your price. Call Bob at x3588.  hiag $$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 1 AIR FORCE GA CALL BETH 288-0597 NEED PURDUE TICKETS: 2 GA'S AND 8 STUDENT TIX CALL JILL AT 288-0597 I need 2 GA's and 2 stud. tixs for Purdue. Call Shannon at 271-9260 KATHLEEN, I'M THIRSTY-CAN I BORROW 3 DOLLARS??!! Attn: PLS Majors ... Listen up this week for Peter Meringolo's 21 reasons why Hegel is not Italian TOP TEN MSU QUOTES: 10. "Wild women do and they don't regret it." 9. "My BLs are asleep." 8. "Guys, make sure I keep my legs together ..." 8. ''This is is RP the Notre Dame's SBP and he's got a cute butt." 7. "I would have mooned you too, but I didn't shave my butt today." 6. "Edward, that was the best SEX on the Beach I ever had." 5. "I WANT GRIMACE II" 4. "Kelley, you were supposed to take a right back there .. ." 3. "I will wade in the red sea, but I will not drink of it." 2. Q: "How many NO football players does it take to screw in a lightbulb?" A: "One, but he gets three credits for it."-Raiph 1. "I've got the East Lansing BLUES!" Top 1 0 quotes from Mich. 1)Ritzbits anyone?They're great for absorbency! 2)0flicer, 79 sounds so much better than 80. 3)13 wrecks?!? 4) Please step out of the car-you're under arrest. 5)Boy, do I need a shot! 6)What do you mean the car got towed? ?)Dance with a forty year old man? Sure I will! 8)Where the hell is Dooley's? 9)Michigan really is a nice state, guys. 1 0) Roadtripping sure is expensive! Reunion starts at 9·1'11 buy the first round!Natalie, Christine&Brian-y'all are awesome!-Katie NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE &  FOR RESERVATIONS. Remember Talk and Discussion Our SEXUALITY Patricia Livingston Tonight 7:30 Keenan· Stanford Chapel SPRINGBREAK SAILING BAHAMAS: 45ft Captained Yachts. Groups of 6 to 8. Seven Days Barefoot in the Bahamas. $448.00 each Including Accommodation and Meals. SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE I 1·800·999-7245 1 OAM-8P MIAMI GA FACE VALUE. .. Psych ... MIAMI Tkts Stud. $125 & up GA,s $250 & up Can't Believe 1111111111111111 I NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. CALL KRISTEN. X1273. AMY, Do you want my Miami GA's? Kay x1363. Washington, DC Club Memebers!l There will be a bus for October break. The bus will run October 20 and return October 27. Both trips will be at 11 PM. The cost will be $100. Questions? Call Tom Conaghan x1189. Need Miami Tix Call Dave 1862 DOMINOS, VIC'S SUBS, GINA'S PIZZA, COCA-COLA, CULVER COVE, ALUMNI ASSOCIATION, WAOR (95.3) RADIO, SEA MONKEY CONSPIRACY ... ...FOOD & FUN FOR CHARITY .. ... HPC/HOC QUARTER SMORGASBORD ... FRIDAY,HOLY CROSS FIELD,4·7 sdgf ATIENTION THRILL SEEKERS: VISIT UNIVERSAL STUDIOS, KNOTI'S BERRY FARM, & SIX FLAG'S MAGIC MOUNTAIN! CALL 239·7308. GET TOP$ FOR YOUR  
...  GA.DESPERATELY SEEKING (2) STANFORD GAs. WILLING TO DEAL. MIKE X3526 HAVE 1 STAN & 1 MIAMI GA CALL MIKE (407) 682-4027 HAVE 1 STAN & 1 MIAMI GA CALL MIKE (407) 682-4027  Need 2 GAs for Stanford. Call x1572 and leave message PLEASEI!Ill I NEED 4 PURDUE GA TICKETS CALL SAM NIGHTS 271-9312 NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S PLEASE CALL MIKE 272-4748  HAVE MIAMI STUD. BUT I CAN'T SELL THEM. REALLY NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S CALL LIB X4820 NEED TWO STUDENT TIX FOR STANFORD. CALL DAVE 11424  Need 2 Stanford stud/ga Will trade or sell: 1 Purdue,1 Penn, 1 Miami (All Stud 45yd) Call Chris 289·7331 6-9pm. NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S CALL DAVE AT 3377  STANFORD CALL 273-1364 HOW COULD YOU MISS THE BIGGEST AND BEST TRIP OF YOUR N.D. CAREER? NO vs USC • CALL 239-7308 BE ANIMALISTIC: VISIT SEA WORLD & SAN DIEGO ZOO! CALL 239-7308.  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 1-800-733-8499 ASK FOR PAUL ALL SALES CONFIDENTIAL  

Wednesday, September 26, 1990 The Observer page 15 
.....

Drabek continues quest for Cy Young as Bucs win 
Uses arm and bat to beat Cubs as Pirates reduce magic number to six in NL East race 
(AP) Doug Drabek's team­mates have nicknamed him Cybek -as in Cy Young Award winner -but the Pittsburgh Pirates are one step closer to winning the National League East because of his hitting. 
Drabek became Pittsburgh's first 21-game winner in 34 sea­sons, pitching a four-hitter and scoring twice as the Pirates beat the Chicago Cubs 5-3 Tuesday night and reduced their lll11.gic number to six. 
The Pirates rallied from a 3-0 deficit in the second inning as Drabek (21-6) improved to 12-2 since the All-Star break. He has lost only twice in 17 starts dat­ing to .June 28. 
Drabek, the Pirates' win­ningest starter since Bob Friend went 22-14 in 1958, al­lowed just one hit -Mark Grace's third-inning single ­after giving up three runs and three hits in two innings. He struck out seven and walked three in his eighth complete game. 
Drabek had two hits and started the Pirates' rally with a fifth-inning double off Steve Wilson (4-9) as the National League East-leading Pirates won for the fifth time in six games. 
"When he came over here from the Yankees in 1986, he couldn't hit a foul ball," Pirates manager Jim Leyland said. "But he's worked hard on his hitting, and now you don't have to pull him out of a tight game in the fifth or the seventh for a pinch-hitter. He's helped him­self win four or five games that way." 
Drabek, who is hitting .212, didn't figure to be around that late after his shaky start, which prompted Leyland to make a first-inning visit to the mound. 
"He told me I wasn't throwing the ball, that I was just tossing It up there," he said. "I wasn't fooling people out there. After that I got on a roll and felt stronger. At the plate. I was just trying to make contact and put the ball in play. because you can give yourself an extra inning or two by doing that." 
Mets 3, Expos 1 
MONTREAL -Pinch-hitter Dave Magadan's two-out, two­run single in the seventh inning sent New York over the Montreal Expos and kept the Mets three games behind Pittsburgh in the National League East. 
The Mets and Pirates each have eight games left, including three against each other to end the season in Pittsburgh. 
Chris Naholz (6-1), who beat the Mets with a one-hitter last week, got his first major-league loss. Winner Alejandro Pena (3­
3) gave up one hit in four in­nings and struck out five. 
Braves 10, Reds 0 
CINCINNATI -Dave Justice hit his first grand slam and Ron Gant homered to reach the 30­30 mark as the Atlanta Braves stalled Cincinnati, leaving the Reds' magic number at five. 
The Reds managed only five hits and did not move any closer to clinching their first National League West title since 1979. Second-place Los Angeles began the day 4 1/2 games behind. 
Justice's grand slam high­lighted a six-run fifth otT Norm Charlton (12-8), and Gant's solo homer made him the 13th player to hit 30 and steal 30 bases in a season. Lonnie Smith and Kelly Mann also homered for Atlanta. 
Tom Glavine (10-11) took the loss, snapping the Reds' four­game winning streak. 
Dodgers 3, Astros 1 
HOUSTON -Hubie Brooks hit a two-run homer in the lOth inning and the Los Angeles Dodgers cut their deficit in the National League West back to 3 games, beating the Houston Astros. 

The Dodgers moved closer to first-place Cincinnati, which lost to Atlanta 10-0. The Reds have eight games left and Los Angeles have seven remaining. 
Eddie Murray drew a one-out walk from Juan Agosto (9-8) in the 1Oth and Brooks followed with his 20th homer of the year. 
Jay Howell (5-5) pitched two innings for the victory. Rookie Ramon Martinez 
failed to join Doug Drabek as 20-game winners in the NL, giving up two hits in six in­nings. He left with the Dodgers trailing 1-0. 
Cards1, Phlllles 0 
PHILADELPHIA -Bernard Gilkey led otT the game with a triple and doubled with two outs in the ninth inning -the only runner to reach base against Terry Mulholland ­and the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Gilkey also threw out a run­ner at the plate from left field in the first inning as St. Louis stopped Philadelphia's four­game winning streak. 
Mulholland (8-10), who pitched a no-hitter against San Francisco on Aug. 15, struck out two. Gilkey scored the lone run when tripled in the first in­ning and came home on Geronimo Pena's sacrifice fly. 
Joe Magrane (10-16) gave up eight hits in seven innings. Mike Perez pitched the eighth and Ken Dayley worked the final inning for his second save. 


The Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism 
presents 

"AMERICAN CATHOLICISM'S ENCOUNTER WITH THE RELIGION OF THE PUERTO RICAN PEOPLE" 
Professor Ana Maria Diaz-Stevens Rutgers University Thursday, September 27, 1990 
4:15P.M. 

Hesburgh Library Lounge University of Notre Dame 
If you plan to attend, you may pick up a copy of Prof. Diaz-Stevens' paper at 614 Hesburgh Library 
Swindell keeps Boston 1 1/2 games back 
equaling eight-run first inning with a three-run homer as the first eight batters hit safely. Roberto Kelly led off with his 15th homer and the next six Yankees -Steve Sax, Don Mattingly, Kevin Maas, Hensley Meulens, Matt Nokes and Jim Leyritz -all singled before Velarde homered, tying the major league record of eight consecutive first-inning hits be­fore the first out. 
Oscar Azocar grounded out to end the string but homered later, as did Kevin Maas and Hensley Meulens. Baltimore starter Anthony Telford (3-3) failed to retire any of the six batters he faced. New York's Dave Eiland (1-1) gave up four hits and three runs -two earned -in seven innings, in­cluding Mickey Tettleton's two­run homer, his 13th. 
'Y;~~ 
~\y;? 
Know what you're drinking 

BOSTON (AP) -Greg Swindell scattered seven hits in eight innings. Sandy Alomar homered and the Cleveland Indians dealt Boston's pennant hopes another jolt Tuesday night with a 5-2 victory over the staggering Red Sox. 
Boston began the evening 1 1/2 games behind Toronto, which played in Milwaukee. The Red Sox suffered their third consecutive defeat and 15th in 21 games. 
Swindell (12-8) was in com­mand except for Tony Pena's two-run homer that pulled Boston within 3-2 in the fifth inning. The left-bander struck out six and didn't issue a walk. Doug Jones pitched a one-hit ninth for his 41st save. The Indians rapped Boston starter Greg Harris (13-9) and reliev­ers Larr Andersen and Wes Gardner for 10 hits, including Alomar's ninth homer. 
Cleveland went ahead with a run in the third on a walk, Felix Fermin's sacrifice, Alex Cole's infield hit and Jerry Browne's sacrifice fly. Alomar made it 2-0 with his homer into the left-field screen in the fourth and the Indians added a run in the fifth on a walk, a single by Cole and Browne's RBI grounder. 
In the Boston fifth, Dwight Evans singled and Pena home­red, his seventh of the year but his first since Aug. 7. But the Indians chased Harris in a two­run sixth that included RBI sin­gles by Brook Jacoby and Felix Fermin. 
Yankees 15, Orioles 3 
NEW YORK -Randy Velarde capped New York's record-


RICE Hawkeye coach Fry feels Irish don't deserve 
continued from page 20 

beat him out. I think I could 
#1 ranking; thinks Miami will be champions
lead this team like I led Notre 
Dame my sophomore year." 

Although Rice is happy with his situation in Saskatchewan, he admits that he was dis­traught when he was passed over in the National Football League draft this past spring. 
"Sure I was hurt and disap­pointed," Rice says. "But you can't always get what you want in life, and I wanted to go to the NFL very badly. But this is a professional team up here, and I'm happy to be playing for a professional team." 
Rice might also be playing for another professional team in a different sport. He was drafted in the 50th round by the California Angels baseball team, and when the football season ends he plans on work­ing out with that organization. 
"They want me to cpme around slowly," says Rice, who quit playing baseball after the sixth grade. "I go out to the batting cages out here quite a bit, too. It's much harder to hit a mchine, though, so I stay away from the 80 mile-per­hour machine and go to the 60 mph machine." 
Rice also still entertains thoughts of playing in the NFL. There is some precedence for a former-Notre Dame quarter­back fmding his way to the NFL after a stay in the CFL; both Joe Theisman and Tom Clements have done it in the past. Rice wants to be the next former­Irish player to travel the road back to the States from the Great White North. 
"I think Theisman and Clements were happy that they proved other people wrong," Rice says. "I want to go one step further, though. I want to do what they did, but I also be­lieve that I can do even better." 
Even if he does not succeed in his athletic endeavors, Rice still knows he has something to fall back on. Although it was diffi­cult at times, he managed to earn his degree in Psychology on time last spring from the College of Arts and Letters. 
"I came into contact with so many good people at Notre Dame, and it certainly makes things better for me now that I have my degree. Receiving a degree from Notre Dame cer­tainly will help me realize my goal of being the best person I can be." 
And he hasn't forgotten his former teammates. One gets the sense that he is still with them in spirit. 
"I'm happy that Notre Dame won last weekend," Rice said after the 28-24 Irish victory over Michigan:. "Tell all the guys on the team that I really hope that they go all the way." 
St. Edward's Hall Forum 
Professor David Link, Dean of Notre Dame's Law School will speak on: "How to Get Into and Succeed at a Good Law School." Wednesday, Sept. 26 St. Edward's Hall Forum 
.. ,Quit smoking. 
&+aAmerican Heart'Y'Association 
CHICAGO (AP) -Hayden Fry doesn't see Notre Dame as No. 1, but two other Big Ten coaches who have lost to the Irish and another who figures to lose to them this week claim they deserve their ranking. 
Not surprising, Fry was pumping No. 10 Miami, Fla., Tuesday in the Big Ten coaches teleconference because his Iowa Hawkeyes will be facing the Hurricanes this week. 
"I don't see anyone defeating Miami unless it is Florida State the week after we play them," said Fry. "I don't see Notre Dame beating them. They were upset by BYU and Notre Dame beat Michigan and Michigan State, two fine teams, but Miami is more explosive. 
"They have a Heisman candidate (Craig Erickson) at quarterback and Notre Dame has a freshman (Rick Mirer, actually a sophomore)," said Fry. "Unless Florida State (No. 
2) doesn't beat them, Miami will repeat (as national cham­pion)." 
Gary Moeller of No. 6 Michigan and George Perles of No. 22 Michigan State don't agree with Fry. The Irish, who take on Miami at South Bend Oct. 20, defeated Michigan 28­24 and edged Michigan 20-19 last week. Deflected intercep­tions late in each game led to the Notre Dame victories. 
"I don't know yet," said Moeller when asked if Notre Dame was the best team in the nation. "We'll find out at midseason. One thing about Notre Dame is they fmd a way to win. There were tipped passes against us and Michigan State. 
"Good teams find a way and, in the sport of football, you make those things happen," said Moeller. "They're going to get better as they go along. Close wins help to make you better." 
Perles said of Notre Dame "I think they're very, very good. I'm not a reliable source but, in my opinion, they're No. 1. They did what they had to do, my hat's off to them." 
Fred Akers takes his Purdue Boilermakers to South Bend this week and commented on the so-called luck of the Irish. 
"One of our goals is to have people call us lucky," said Akers. "Luck follows people that are good and find ways to get it done. That describes Notre Dame." 
Purdue opened the season with a 20-14 loss to No. 12 Washington, a surprising 31-0 winner over Southern Cal last week, and then defeated Indiana State 41-13. 

"Comparing scores is not fruitful, but it is fun," Akers said. "I'm surprised that we're better than USC but I don't know if Notre Dame will be. I'm sure that by game time (Irish coach) Lou (Holtz) will have us 15-point favorites." 
John Cooper of No. 15 Ohio State doesn't consider Southern Cal's loss to Washington funny since the Buckeyes take on the No. 18 Trojans on Saturday. 
"They're going to be mad, they were embarrassed last week," said Cooper. ''I'd rather have them come in undefeated." 
Cooper also knows something about being embarrassed. Southern Cal defeated Ohio State 42-3 last year." 
My Macintosh is more important to me than my car. Ilent my car to my sister. But nobodys taking my Macintosh. 
Joson Jimerson 
B.A. Sociology, Earlham College 
M.A. Sociology, University of Virginia 
Ph.D. Candidate, Sociology, University of Chicago 

"I don't know how anybodygets through college today without aMacintosh. Sometimes I have so many assignments that I barely have time for sleep.Yet my 
Macintosh allows me to get my work done on time­without making sacrifices. "Working on my dissertation and field studies means collecting an incredible amountofinformation. So jumping from one program to anotherwith 
ease is imperative, as is quickly making charts and graphs. By enabling me to do these things, Macintosh

probably saves me an hour and ahalfeach day 
'1\nothergreat thing about the Macintosh is that it makes you feel technically confident. Remember putting toys 
together when you were akid? Who reads the directions? Nobody You look at the picture ofthe bike and you know exactly what to do. 
The Macintosh operates the same way Iactually taught afriend to use one in 
two minutes. "What would mylife be like without aMacintosh? Scary" 
For more information, please contact: 
:-10 IIH. D \\II 
!'0\ll'l II· R S I ORI 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 
Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 
Why do people love Madntosh®? A5kthem. 
01990 Apple Computer. Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 


Alumni starts toward another championship season 
BY RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 
Men's interhall football action began this Sunday with a slightly different look. Keenan dropped from the large-dorm Parseghian League down to the medium-dorm Leahy to replace recently demolished Holy Cross Hall. Thus, each of the three leagues has five teams, which will play each other once over the next five weeks, with each team receiving a bye sometime during the season. 
ROCKNE LEAGUE 
In the small-dorm division, Fisher defeated Pangborn 13-0 while defending league champ Carroll and St. Edward's played to a 0-0 tie. 
Pangborn struggled through­out its contest with Fisher. The Violence's first play from scrimmage set the tone for the afternoon, as a 25-yard com­pletion was called back for holding. "We were constantly plagued by penalties and turnovers," said Pangborn coach Rob Thomson. 
Fisher capitalized on two such turnovers for its scores. With 22 seconds to play in the first half, Frank Becker blocked a Violence punt attempt, which the Green Wave recovered at the Pangborn 20. Mick Green took quarterback Rick Ebert's option pitch in from the two­yard line with eight seconds left, and with Don McGann's PAT, the score was 7-0. 
"The blocked punt and score took the wind out of our sails. We thought we played a good first half, but we went into halftime with nothing to show for it," said Thomson. 
Early in the third quarter, after recovering a Pangborn fumble at the Violence 30, Ebert ran a naked bootleg around right end 15 yards un­touched to complete Fisher's scoring. 
Ebert, who is also the Green Wave coach, complemented the defense, especially the play of inside linebackers Gene Richards and Joe Mattio. 
In the other Rockne game, Carroll had a couple of good scoring opportunities, but the St. Edward's defense held tight, overcoming a sluggish offensive attack which made its deepest penetration only to the Vermin 30. 
Late in the first half, Carroll drove to the St. Edward's 15, only to be called for two penal­ties, eventually losing the ball on downs. In the third quarter, Pat Coleman intercepted a St. Edward's pass and returned it 30 yards to the 10, only to have St. Edward's defense push the Vermin back 20 yards and force Carroll into an unsuccessful field goal try. 
"Our offense played better than any Carroll offense in the past," said Vermin coach Mike Baumer. "We had several sus­tained drives, but little mental errors such as penalties cost us in the end." 
LEAHY LEAGUE 
Defending IH champ Alumni as well as runner-up and de­fending Leahy winner Cavanaugh tuned up for next week's rematch by shutting out their respective opponents. Alumni pummeled Stanford 16­0 and Cavanaugh easily handled Zahm 14-0. After stopping the Studs' initial drive 

Introducing... Notre Dame's Newest Extra-Curricular Innovation 
MEET WASHINGTON 
WHAT THE CLUB IS ABOUT: Meet Washington addresses the economic and political issues affecting you.. 
LEARN FROM THE EXPERTS: At each meeting we will watch "It's Your Business." (The most successful commercially-syndicated public affairs program in the country.) 
YOUR CHANCE TO DEBATE THE DECISION MAKERS: Take the opportunity to talk to congressman in Washingtin D.C. and other experts via satellite. 
FIRST OFFICIAL MEETING: WED., SEPT. 26 7:00pm Montgomery Theater, LAFORTUNE 
????'s Contact Mike Nead 273-9247 of the game, Alumni marched down the field, capping the drive with a five-yard run by David Ludwig. After the two­point conversion, it was 8-0 Alumni. 
Near the end of the first half, the Dogs gained two points when Stanford was called for a holding penalty in the end zone. 
Alumni took the opening kickoff of the second half and used nearly the entire third pe­riod to score on Mark Ross' three-yard run. 
"Considering the little amount of time for preparation, our of­fense executed rather well," said Dogs' coach Paul Szyperski. "Our defense [also] came out with good intensity." 
The Studs' only scoring threat went for naught when Michael McKelvy's touchdown run off a draw play was negated by an illegal block penalty. According to coach Sean Gilboy, this particular type of block is illegal only under NVA rules. Still it didn't change the obvious for Stanford. 
"We were flat," commented Gilboy. "We had about 15 missed tackles and too many penalties. They played a solid game and executed better than us." 
Cavanaugh benefitted early on Dustin Klinger's interception return to the Zahm 16. Pat McCullough's two-yard quarterback sneak and Binh Le's PAT made it 7-0 in the frrst quarter. 
"What turned the tide [was] we threw an interception and they capitalized," said Zahm coach Dan Stopar. "This put us in an early hole and we had to pass more than we wanted to." 
A controversial fumble recov­ery by Cavanaugh's Leni
,......................................................................................:...........................................................
I SEE THE WORLD I 
~
I ~ 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
~ A TOUR OF
I 
INDIA ~ *12/28/90-1/12/91 ~ *PERSONALIZED TOUR OF INDIA FOR ~ SMC/ND STUDENTS, FACULTY. ~ ALUMNI. AND FRIENDS!
I 
Sumich led to their second Planner ensured 1990 would touchdown. Sumich returned not be a repeat when Clark the fumble 20 yards untouched Warren hooked up with Scott after the Zahm players, McCarthy on a 1 0-yard touch­thinking the play had been down pass late in the game to blown dead due to an illegal make the score 13-6. procedure call, did not give "By scoring," coach Kevin chase. Le's PAT produced the Rice claimed, "we think we've final margin of victory. shown we're a vastly improved 
team. I was happy with our 

Cavanaugh captain Ken performance. Just a couple of Cotter believed the key to the mental mistakes cost us." victory was that the players The other Parseghian contest want to prove that last year's saw Grace's defense force five success was not a fluke. He at­Morrissey turnovers to spark tributes the infusion of this their attack. positive attitude to the enthusi­"Grace Hall's key has always asm of head coach Tom been a successful defense," Gorman. Still a winning season said coach Chris Sullivan. isn't guaranteed. "Defense wins football games." · 
"With the quality of our However, it was a revamped league, we can't say for sure Grace offense which led to its how well we're going to do," scores. Early in the second pe­said Cotter. riod, quarterback Jim Kossler scrambled in from the five after PARSEGHIAN LEAGUE the original pass play broke down. Bob Sweeney's PAT 
Last year's Parseghian made it 7-0. Kossler also champion Off-Campus began scored early in the fourth quar­defense of their title by defeat­ter on a 12-yard sweep to com­ing Planner 13-6, while Grace, plete the scoring. trying to rebound from a dis­Morrissey coach David appointing 1989 season, Shaw's team features 10 downed Morrissey 13-0. freshmen on its 24-man roster. 
A fumble recovery of a Their inexperience, he felt, muffed punt in the second hurt the team, especially on quarter set up the Off-Campus offense. Crime's first score. The Crime drove 40 yards, with Tim "We didn't have execution on Murphy going over from the offense at all," Shaw said. "Our two. Bob Topel's PAT made it defense played well, shutting 7-0. them down on two different 
Late in the third quarter, Off-fourth-down plays, but our Campus quarterback Bob offense just gave them too Allard connected with Chuck many opportunities, turning the Moser for a 35-yard comple-ball over and giving them good tion. Two plays later, Mike field position." Deely's two-yard run made the He is hopeful next week's bye score 13-0; the PAT was will give him a chance to work blocked. on improving the offense in 
After going through the 1989 time for Off-Campus in two campaign without scoring once, weeks. 
, 
I 
I ~ I ~ I ~ I ~ I ~ I ~ I ~ 
SEMESTER AROUND 
THE WORLD ~ 
*FALL SEMESTER OF 1991-16 CREDIT HOURS ~ 
*VISIT JAPAN. KOREA. THAILAND. ~ CHINA, MALASYIA ,INDIA • AND ~ MUCH MORE! 
I 

DIRECTOR: DR. CYRIAC PULLAPILLY. PROFESSOR OF HISTORY AT SMC  ~  
~ I ~ ! ~  INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS SMC WED, SEPT 26, 1990 349 MADALEVA  I ~I ~ !  
~  ~~~  ~  
i ~ ~!  NO THURS, SEPT 27, 1990 AV CENTER -LOWER LEVEL OF THE CCE  ~ !i!  
~  4:30PM  ~  
~  ~  
~  FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL KELLY 284-5116 OR STACEY 258-5634  ~  

.................................................................................................................................................................................f 
a 

The Observer 
page 18 

Despite aches and pains, Nolan Ryan remains one of the best 

tradition. Eating abandoned nachos, we could see over the
PARK 
first-base side of the park new continued from page 20 Comiskey Park, seemingly 
peering over the wall in A small price to pay for anticipation of its opening day participating in tradition. in April. As the game wound down and Noticing their uniforms, a Thiggy was doing his thing, we camper was perplexed. had time to contemplate the "I guess they don't wear white finer points of the White Sox socks now, do the ? " 
ARLINGTON, Texas (AP)­It just doesn't seem right, does it? To look back at Nolan Ryan's incredible season and wonder what might have been. 
You think of Ryan and you see Ruben Sierra racing into foul territory to catch the fmal out of Ryan's record sixth no­hitter on a cool summer night at the Oakland Coliseum. You hear A's manager Tony La Russa talking afterward. Something about how there can be dignity in defeat. 
You see Ryan's teammates carrying him off the field and you hear about the bottle of champagne he leaves unopened in his locker while he celebrates with his family over a couple of pizzas back at the hotel. 
You see Ryan's 14-year'-old son Reese walking with him from the center field bullpen at Milwaukee County Stadium July 31, the night Ryan recorded his 300th victory. Father and son, wearing matching uniforms and matching smiles. 
You also can't help but noticing the grimaces and gyrations between all those fastballs. You see Ryan stalling for a breather as he tries to overcome the discomfort of a stress fracture in his lower back, a strained Achilles tendon or a tightened hamstring. 
You also see Ryan taking a shot off Bo Jackson's bat, one that misses his glove and car­oms off his chin, slicing his lower lip with a two-inch gash he can stick his tongue thro . He cha 

usually white but now red­blotched jersey twice because the blood won't stop pouring out of his mouth. 
But you don't see him come out of the game or even call timeout, much to the dismay of the opposing Kansas City Royals. Ryan said he didn't want to "let a little thing like a cut lip keep me from doing my job." 
That's Nolan, all right. You'd know him anywhere. 
"That's what makes this so hard to take," Rangers man­ager Bobby Valentine said. "Here's a guy who pitches his heart out every time he takes the mound. He keeps us in the game, gives us a lead and we blow it or we don't get any hits." 
Like during the last six weeks, when Ryan was pitching like it was 1973 all over again. And his teammates were playing like they were in the minors all over again. 
Take Monday night. Ryan takes ·a no-hitter into the sixth inning against the California Angels, and finally settles for a four-hitter, walking two and striking out 11. He loses 3-2 and his record falls to 13-8. 
Ryan has yielded only 12 runs in his last six starts but is 1-1 over that stretch. In his last eight starts, he has a 2.01 ERA but is only 2-2. In those games, the Rangers have scored two or fewer runs five times. 
Still, you won't fmd him crit­icizing his bullpen or his bat­ters. 
"That's just part of it," the 
said. 
scored a lot of runs for me early in the year. I won some games early that I didn't pitch as well in." 
Ryan said he would like to have some of those games in his victory column, but "you really gotta pay more attention to your consistency. I think the second half I was throwing better and more consistent than the first half, even though my record doesn't show it." 
Rafael Palmeiro said the Rangers are frustrated at not getting their ace the support he deserves, "I wish I could figure it out," he said. "It's very frustrating. Frustrating for everybody. He throws a great game and we just don't score." 
Rangers pitching coach Tom House quotes Yogi Berra in searching for an answer. 
"What was it he said, 'The harder we try, the worser we get?' Something along those lines," House said. "The guy goes out there and gives you everything he's got, day in and day out, and you want to do well for him. Sometimes it just doesn't happen. 
"If you go back over his ca­reer, this type of thing happens to him a lot." 
Ryan will finish his 23rd sea­son Sunday against the A's during fan appreciation day at Arlington Stadium. As of Tuesday, he held the major league lead with 221 strikeouts, despite a May 18­June 5 stint on the disabled list. Opposing batters are hitting a major league low .185 off him. 

Daily Specials 

THE COMMONS 
OPEN 2p.m.-3e.m. 
--'"' ..... ·· 
--~,,_,.;·.,.;..,.-· 

Parents Welcome 
r 1tl~J ·~· 
I

Tickets available at McCandless 
Parietal Desk. 
and 

@ , ( Potato Salad 
Jncluded 
~-~-­

Wednesday, September 26, 1990 The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD No. 0815 
ACROSS 29 Pertaining to 50 Little piggie 
Wednesday, September 26, 1990 bees 
53 End of the quip 
1 Entreaty 
30 Olds classics 

57-fixe
7 p.m. Film, "Meet Me In St. Louis," Annenberg 5 Escorts 31 Place for an 
58 Like Mary Lou 
Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by 10Anguish eleve 
Retton
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 14 Diner sign 32 "-About the 
59 Loll
Boy": Coward 

15 Creme de Ia 
&o Manor master 
7:30 p.m. Presentation, "Understanding And Claiming creme 35 More of the quip 
61 Discourage
Our Sexuality," Patricia Livingston, Associate Director of 16 Florence's river 39 Kismet 
62 Washington
Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Formation in 11 Start of a quip 40 Where Joan of 
bills
Arc was

Ministry. Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Sponsored by Center 20 Christie's 
executed

for Social Concerns, Student Government and the Year of "Murder­
41 Bibliotheca:

Women. Said" DOWN
Slang21 Regan's father 
42 Thigh-high 

1 Garbanzos' 
9 p.m. Film, "Hiroshima, Mon Amour," Annenberg 22 Cordwood skirts 
cousins
Auditorium, Snite Museum. Admission $2. Sponsored by measure 43 Pampers 
2 Plaster backer 
Notrn·Dame Communication and Theatre. 23 Martin or Hart 45 Author of 
3 Major or kitchen 
24 Walked "Popo": 1980 follower Thursday, September 27, 1990 triumphantly 47 Tree's torso 
4 St. Helens's 26 Choir 481daho's capital outputNoon Lecture (Brown Bag Lunch) "Toward A New accompani­49 Like the White 5 Tables Framework For Human Rights Monitoring," Michael ments Rabbit 6 Mollify Stohl, Visiting Faculty Fellow Professor, Purdue 7 Stratum in a University. Room 101, Law School. Sponsored by Institute stadium 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE
for International Peace Studies. 8 Greek vowel 9 Like some wine 10 Dolly from ~~-B Tenn. B-7-t:-;+.;::.t=~:t:::+:':-iillliiiiilr.=+:tt:-11 Rainbow-
MENUS shaped 12 Harden ~"'-+-'--+'--iioillll-'-'+-'-+-'-1 13 Proboscis
Notre Dame 
Stir Fry Beef & Green Peppers 

"""+=+=+':"! 19 Lebanon
Chicken Pot Pie 

neighbor
Fettucini Alfredo 

~~~··· 23 Forest food 
.; 24 Dish's elopement partner
Saint Mary's 

-=-+=+=+::-t 25 Cash drawer 
Chicken Enchiladas 
...;;...J.---L.;...L..-' 

26 Spoken
Cheese Enchiladas Bean Burritos Beef Chimichanga 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 





Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

27San-, Riviera resort 28 Gourmand's 
gripe? 29 Farmers' fields 31 Small cases 32 DCCLI x II 33 French secular 
cleric 34 Changes color 36 Table protector 37 Loudness 
measure 38 River to the North Sea 
SPELUNKER 
42 Ate aboard a 
U.S. warship 43 Take the trouble 44 Helm position 45 Last movement 
of a sonata 46 Down producer 47 Use the Jacuzzi 48 Pail handle 49 Latvian 50 Comparative 
word 51 Seep 52 Merinos' moms 54 On in years 55 Golfer's 
concern 56 Terse road sign 



---------------=------~--------------~-----­
Sports
pa~20 Wednesday, September 26, 1990 
Hol1z prepared for worst with injury to All-American Lyght 
Fears Run and Shoot as well as punt blocking prowess of Boilermakers will make trouble 
BY KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz is preparing for the worst with All-American cornerback Todd Lyght's ham­string injury. 
"We do not expect Todd Lyght back." Holtz says. "When you have a hamstring muscle pull, in all honesty we're not counting on him the rest of the year. If we get anything out of him, hey that's a bonus." 
Holtz's pessimism may be ex­aggerated. Lyght will not play this Saturday against Purdue, but realistically Irish fans 'Can expect him to be back in action the following week against Stanford. There is a possibility that freshman Tom Carter will start in place of George Poorman at free safety, in which case there would be two freshmen (Carter and corner­back Greg Lane) and one sophomore (Reggie Brooks) starting in the secondary. 
"I think there isn't any doubt that Greg Lane and Tommy Carter and even (fellow fresh­man) John Covington are going to be fine defensive backs if they continue to get better, but you have to remember that they are true freshmen. You get into a ballgame and you revert to old habits. They on occasion were probably using some cov­erages that they used last year that we aren't using this year," Holtz says. 
Holtz was nevertheless pleased with the effort given by his young defensive backs. He says it will just take time for them to develop. 
Time is something the Irish don't have, though. Another concern with Lyght gone is the punting unit. 
"(Lyght) played the right sprinter for us on the outside, He had started there for three years," Holtz says. "The punt­ing game, you don't really no­tice it until it doesn't show up, but there's a lot of different looks, a lot of different calls, and it gets to be a rather com­plicated process out there. I am really concerned when we punt the ball this week." 
The Irish coach is doubly concerned because of the recent success the Boilermakers have had against opposing punters. 
"I believe Purdue blocked three punts against Indiana State. Every time I turned around they were blocking a punt or returning one for a touchdown-they had an 87­yarder called back," Holtz says. 
Lyght is also absent from the kickoff coverage team, but a familiar face has taken his place. Junior flanker Raghib Ismail replaced Lyght Saturday against Michigan State and ran down Spartan return man Courtney Hawkins to make a stop. 
"Todd Lyght was one of our safeties (on the coverage team). We put Rocket (Ismail) in his place and all Rocket did was go down and make an excellent tackle, and he's never practiced it. The guy loves the game, that's what I like about him, he just loves to practice the game. He works exceptionally hard and is unbelievably talented," Holtz says. 
Holtz would like to make greater use of Ismail's skills, but he is afraid that he might burn out the brightest star on his offense if he overworks Ismail. 
"I think that some of the things Rocket does during the course of a football game are rather incredible. I really do. I think he's a great football player. We have to get the ball into his hands more often, I don't think there's any doubt about that, but it's a long sea­son, it's a physical game that we play, and he's not very big. We just can't afford to get him beat down," Holtz says. 

Purdue has run the option on occasion this season, but the Boilermakers are primarily a run-and-shoot team on offense. Holtz says that the run-and­shoot is dangerous in the hands of Purdue's sophomore quar­terback Eric Hunter. 
"I don't think you shut down Hunter or the run-and-shoot; I don't think anybody else has. What you try to do is have damage control so to speak. They really do have people open on every play, it's just a question of getting it to the right guy. I think that's true of most pass offenses where you have four or· five receivers. We'd like to be able to pressure them, obviously, but with a young secondary, I'm not sure we can afford to do that on a consistent basis," Holtz says. 
Rice adjusting fine to CFL; hopes to follow Theisman and Clements to NFL 
Worth a trip to Grand Old Ballpark as 80 years of tradition end 
. Raymond 
Former Irish quarterback Tony Rice hopes his time in the Canadian Football League is well spent as he hopes to prove the NFL was wrong in not drafti him. · 
An observant passer-by 

--···------­
on the Notre Dame cam­pus might have noticed an advertisement for a junior class trip to Comiskey Park. It is curiously titled "Ode to Comiskey" with a loose set of instructions de­signed to be sung to the 

•
Scott Brutocao
tune of "Take Me Out to 

Irish Items
the Ballgame." Hah. Got them. We knew that Comiskey Park, home of the Chicago White Sox, would be in its final homestand of existence this week. We knew that a slice of baseball's wonderful tradition would be gobbled up, so we avoided the line at the dessert counter by going early. So, on a partly cloudy Sunday in mid-September, armed only with a box of two dozen doughnuts, six Notre Dame "campers" piled into a car designed for five and set out for the aging confines of Comiskey. The WhitP Sox were playing the Boston Red Sox for the very last time in that stadium, so the obligation clearly wa" there. Before we get into this, let it be said that baseball is losing morP than a unique ballpark when the Sox play their last game there Sunday afternoon versus Seattle. It is losing a living testimony of the sport's greatness, a chunk of history not replaceable by a mere construction from nuts, bolts and stucco. It's almost a moral obligation for sports fans within striking distance to make the trip. Call it a pilgrimage if you like. Besides, it's a road trip, and with proper provisions any mobile excursion can be fun, sometimes more fun than the event for which the trip was made. Arriving into the stadium after the game had started, we already had been impressed by the cracked paint on the brick exterior on the building. But when we started walking to our seats, we noticed dusty beams and pipes overhead, grafittied walls, and a grimy floor. "Kind of like our basement," observed a camper who lives off-campus. Since we bought our tickets late, we were assigned to the right field bleachers where the view is slightly better than the parking lot. Before we reached those seats, we noticed beer sellers restocking their stacks in pits off the main walkways. It looked like they might have been co-renting with enterprising rats. We arrived in right field, took some seats in the "general admission area," and immediately were greeted with a respendent green on the field. Green grass, green beams, green seats, green walls. As we were enjoying this display of emerald, a version of the Lite Beer commercial, "Hey, buddy, you're in the wrong seats" occurred. Right field was not general admission, as the Ticketmaster agent had told us. We were in the wrong seats. 
When we arrived at the correct ones, we found a belligerent, foot-wide post in our way. White Sox second baseman Scott Fletcher was sucked away from my view. But who needed a view, since we were experiencing an authentic baseball tradition? "Please, don't steal from Comiskey Park," blared a kind man's voice from deteriorating loudspeakers. "It's a beautiful old ballpark." Yes it is, soon to be was. The field itself is in fine shape, despite its being in its 80th year. The grounds will be removed and re-sodded in three local public parks, in living memory of the stadium. Our afternoon was spent watching a game in which, as it should be, the home team won. Chicago reliever Bobby Thigpen re-made history again by notching his 50th save. centerfielder Lance Johnson lept up and blocked a homerun-bound ball with his glove, saving a run. But it was the atmosphere within the stadium that was worth recording. In the bleachers, snow cones shared equal time with cigarettes. We relived our childhoods as we munched hot dogs, slurped snow cones and inhaled cotton candy. The park even had a nifty gimmick in which a spectator could test the speed of his fastball, three throws for a dollar. The six of us obediently waited in a line that was composed primarily of pre-teens and sailors, an odd combination. But we all got to throw our heaters and all suffered torn rotator cuffs. 
seePARK I page 18 
BY KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 

There's not much to do in Rugina, Saskatchewan. 
Former Notre Dame quarter­back Tony Rice should know. As a backup QB for the Saskatchewan Roughriders of the Canadian Football League, Rice lives in this northern city with a population of 185,000. 
Although Rugina is not ex­actly on the cutting edge of the latest social trends, Rice man­ages to keep himself enter­tained. 
"I usually either stay at home or go out to the movies," Rice says. "They show, some first­run movies here, and I see some of the re-runs, too; I go about twice a week. I get out and have fun, but I don't usually stay out too late." 
Rice can't afford to stay out too late. His mission is to im­prove his quarterbacking skills 
and win a starting job some day. 
Current Saskatchewan starter Kent Austin is standing in Rice's way, though. Austin leads the CFL in passing and has directed the Roughriders to a 6-6 record this season. Rice takes it all in stride; he is not discouraged by his lack of playing time. 
"Everything looks okay here. I'm enjoying my stay here, and I see myself improving each and every day," Rice says. 
The jump from college ball to the CFL is a big one, though. First off, the skill level im­proves as a player faces pro­fessional competition. Secondly, in the CFL the rules are quite different from those of the NCAA. 
"You have three downs (instead of four) to get a first down. There are 12 players on the field. There are no fair catches. You get one point for a free kick of the ball through the end zone. And the field is wider, so, there is a lot of room for the quarterback to run," Rice explains. 
Rice says he has adjusted to the new rules. He has also had to adjust to being a third-string quarterback. The 6-1, 200 pound native of Woodruff, So. Car. was used to being a starter in college. He was 28-3 in almost three full seasons as a starting quarterback at Notre Dame, and he finished fourth in the Heisman Trophy balloting a year ago. Rice is keeping things in perspective, though. 
"I was a backup at Notre Dame, too, for a while. This is just like my sophomore year (1987). I had to wait my turn. Unfortunately Terry Andrysiak went down, but I was able to lead the team. If Kent Austin goes down right now, we have another guy, but I think I can 
see RICE I page 16 




