.-------------------------­
-~-­

VOL. XXIII NO. 76 FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Colombian jet crashes on LongIsland; many dead, injured 
COVE NECK, N.Y. (API-A Colombian Boeing 707 with more than 140 people aboard craslwd in fog and rain Thursday night while on ap­proach to Kennedy International Airport. killing at least nine people and injuring dozPns. authorities said. 
Avianca Flight 52 en route from Bogota crashed at about 
9:45 p.m. in a sparsely popu­lated area of northern Long Island. breaking into several pinces, KPnnedy airport offi­rials said. 
"TiwrP wPm just dead bodies all over the place.... It was the worst thing you ever saw," an unidentified young man who arrived at the scene told WNBC-TV. 
At least nine people were con­firmed dead, said Kathleen Bergen, a spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration. Early reports from hospitals had at least 33 people hospitalized and others en route. 
CBS-TV reported that doctors on the scene said at least 80 survivors wnre being cared for there. The FAA knew of at least 30 survivors, Bergen said. 
Many ambulances and heli­copters were at the scene, where bloodied victims were lined up on stretchers. Some passengers were seen lying motionless. Others. including children, were conscious and apparently not seriously hurt as they were helped from the wreckage. 
Kennedy's control tower lost contact with Flight 52 at 9:34 
p.m. when the Boeing 707 was about 15 miles northeast of the airport after a five-hour flight, said Port Authority Police Officer Phil Montouri. 

Montouri said "there was no radio communication at all to the tower. It just went down." 
The plane had missed one ap­proach to Kennedy and gone around a second time, accord­ing to the FAA's Bergen. CNN reported that the plane ran out of fuel before it crashed. 
The jet broke into four pieces upon impact, said Coast Guard Petty Officer< Jeff Crawley. There was less than half a mile of visibility and it was raining at the time of the crash, ac­cording to the National Weather Service. 
Steve Ulman, a Cove Neck resident, said the plane nar­rowly missed a house and crashed three houses away from one owned by tennis star John McEnroe. 
The airliner went down in the town of Cove Neck, located at about the same place where the tower lost contact, said Officer Peter Franzone of the Nassau County police. The plane car-
see CRASH I page 7 

Warring Soviets call cease-fire 
MOSCOW (API -Warring nationalists agreed Thursday to a rPasP-Iin~ along one of the tense hattldronts of tlw bloody eonfliet between Ar­nwnia and Azerbaijan. Tass said. 
Tlw announcPment came as Baltie artivists. worTiPd that thP dispute might affect their own pP;u·pful push for independence, offered to help nwdiate the blood feud between Armenia and AzPrbaijan. 
Iran. which has Pthnic and religious ties to Azerbaijan, also offered to help settle the crisis. 
Tlwrn wPm fewer reports of fighting Thurs­day. Tass said life was returning to normal in Baku, the Azerbaijani capital that was the scene of much of thP violPnce. 
• Conflict has deep roots 1 page 6 
During talks in the Armenian town of Ynrasklw. representatives of the Armenian All­National Movement and the People's Front of Nak~icl_H~van agreed to lay down their weapons, the Sovwt news agfmcy said . 
. "According to the agreement ... along the en­trre border between Armenia and the Nakhiclwvan Autonomous region all exchanges of lire betwRen opposing informal groups must stop," Tass said. 
Nakhichevan is culturally and politically a part of Azerbaijan. although it is physically sep­aratf>d from the republic by Armenia, which lies on its northern border. It is bounded by Iran on the south and a small section in the west bor­ders Turkey. 
Tass did not say whether the truce was hold­
$10.6 million drug plan unveiled by Bush 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Pmsident Bush, vowing "to do whatever it takes," proposed a $1.1 billion increase Thursday for the war against drugs, target­ing more money for a Pentagon attack on cocaine traffickers and urging the death penalty for drug kingpins. 
• Democrats, big-city mayors say drug plan is inadequate/ page 8 
Overall, Bush's package would total $10.6 billion and boost the cost of the nation's drug-fighting strategy in fiscal 1991 by 
11.6 percent over current spending of $9.5 billion. 
A rival plan from the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del., would cost $14.6 billion, give the president's drug policy coordinator Cabinet status and outlaw semiautomatic weapons. 
Bush said he expects the Senate will try to approve a higher budget than he is asking, but said, "We do sense a desire on the part 
of  the  Congress  to  co­ 
operate....  
"In  terms  of  the  

objectives of this strategy, we're in pretty close accord with both Democrats and Republicans on the Hill, so I think we can get early action," Bush said. Early congressional reaction split predictably along party lines. 
see DRUGS I a e 8 
China veto upheld by Congress 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The Senate on Thursday narrowly upheld President Bush's veto of a bill protecting Chinese stu­dents from deportation, leaving his China policy intact and giv­ing him a victory in the year's first test of strength with the Democratic-controlled Congress. 
Senators voted 62-37 to over­ride Bush's veto, four short of the two-thirds necessary. 
The action came a day after the House had voted over­whelming to reject Bush's veto, and followed an intense White House lobbying blitz that in­cluded telephone calls from Bush and former President Richard Nixon. 
In a televised appearance just after the vote, Bush said, "We will continue to urge China to respect the human rights of its citizens." He hailed the vote as "reaffirming our commitment to Chinese students in this country as well as the goal of improving relations with China." 

Bush then invited the 37 Republican senators who voted with him, and the 25 House Republicans who stood with him on Wednesday, to the White House for beer and pret­zels. 
Haiching Zhao of the Independent Federation of Chinese Students and Scholars, which represents Chinese stu­dents studying in the United States, said he was "gravely disappointed" by the vote. 
In Newton, Mass., Harvard graduate student Xiaxia Gong said, "How can we believe someone who has already cheated and sent high-level of­ficials to China when he said he would not?" 
Before the Senate roll call, Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, said that while Bush has voiced support for democratic reform in Eastern Europe, "this veto sends a contrary message to the millions of students and workers in China who are struggling for democracy in their country." 
But Sen. Bob Dole, R-Kan., the minority leader. said the congressional showdown was the equivalent of "throwing out the first ball" of the 1990 elec­tion season and was being used by Democrats to force GOP se­nators to cast "a tough politi­cal vote" to support the presi­dent. 
"It's not China policy. it's American politics," Dole said. 
Just before the vote, Bush 
had publicly renewed his 
promise that the 40,000 
Chinese students in the United 
States would be fully protected 
even without the legislation. 
"No student, as long as I'm 
see VETO I page 4 see TRUCE 1page 6 Azerbaijanis angered by the Soviet government's use of Baku: A cease-fire along the border of Armenia and the .----------------------tr_oo_p_s_te_a_r..,up their Communist Party membership cards in Nakhrchevan Autonomous region went into effect yesterday. 


,--­
page 2 The Observer Friday, January 26, 1990 \ 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Graduation is 
all a matter of 
course(s) 

It is every student's nightmare. It is every parent's greatest 
fuu. Ch" D
It is TilE PHONE riS onnelly CALL. Editor-in-Chief 
"Mom, Dad, this is Phil. I have some good news and some bad news. The good news is you'll be sav­ing $400 in plane fares for graduation." 
"That's great, son. We're glad to hear you finally got that job with United Airlines. What a great salary bonus. We're so proud of you. 
"No, Dad, that's not it. You won't need tickets because I won't be graduating this year." 
"You WHAT? How did you*#@% this up? I thought you told me you wanted to be in that whatyacallit American program be­cause it was easy." 
"No L>ad, it's not grades. I have a 3.7." 
"It's drugs, isn't it? $60,000 of my money and you're not graduating because you're a druggie. I think you owe your mother an explanation." 
"Mom, I'm not a druggie. It seems I haven't taken enough courses." "Son, we knew you were dumb but not this dumb." 
"Hemember when I dropped chemistry freshman year? Well, I thought I could make up for it by taking some extra credits every semester, which I did, and I have more than the 120 credits I need to graduate. It says so right in the course book." 
"So you've got over 120 credits. What's the problem?" 
"It seems I don't have enough three-credit courses. The extra courses I took were one credit each and I thought I could just add them up. I guess it doesn't work that way." 
"Son. your mothl!r just fainted. Ever since JPW she hasn't been able to wait to be part of the Notre Dame family again. The trauma was too much for her. We'll talk later." 
This story could happen to you if you are not careful. In some majors, your advisor or department head will send you a list of exactly what courses you need to graduate. but many departments don't. 
Many student mistakenly assume that all of the one-credit mini-courses they have taken count as one three-credit course but not all of them do. The only way to find out how you stand for sure is to have the dean of your college count your courses for you. 
The little known fact is that every student needs a minimum of 40 three-credit course to graduate from Notre Dame. Hegardless of the number of credits you have amassed you need those courses. 
In all fairness to Notre Dame, however, you can usually attend the graduation ceremony with your class. After you take enough courses in summer school you then receive your diploma. 
The opinions expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Production 
Cristina Oritz Lisa Eaton 

News Spol1s
Joe Zadrozny· 

Tim O'Keefe Ken Tysiac Sandra Wiegand 
Ad Design Accent SheliaJones Systems Colleen Cronin Quinn Satepauhoodle Cesar Capella Paul Pearson Jeanne Naylor Deirdre Bell Brian Grunert Shannon Roach 
Mindy Breen 
VIIMpolnt 
Kim Skiles 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, January 26. 
Nation's high: 85 (Fort Myers and Orlando, FL) Nation's low: -1 o (Gunnison, CO) 
Forecast: Becoming mostly sunny Friday. Highs around 35. Becom­ing partly cloudy late Fri­day night. Lows around 
25. Mostly cloudy and warmer Saturday with a 30 percent chance of rain or snow showers. Highs in the lower 40s early, then temperatures falling into the 30s. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta Assoctaled Press GraphicsNet 

OF INTEREST 
Men are needed for the Farley Hall production Of Interests can be submitted to The Observer of Godspell. Auditions will be held Wednesday, Jan. 31 office on the third floor of LaFortune weekdays between and Thursday, Feb. 1 at 7 p.m. in the Farley Middle 9 and 5. Of Interests are free, one-time events of general Room. For more information, call Robin at 283-4011. interest to the Notre Dame community. 
WORLD 
Illegal spying by secret police on opposition Jailed black leader Nelson Mandela on Thurs­parties in Hungary spurred passage by Parliament on day rejected reports that he has converted to capitalism, Thursday of a law reining in the once all-powerful secu­saying he is firmly committed to nationalization of banks, 
rity services. Among the scores of people being spied on mines and monopoly industries. Mandela, a leader of the were some members of Parliament. The new law spells outlawed African National Congress in South Africa, has out that covert intelligence gathering is allowed only when been jailed since 1962. lie is expected to be freed within a 
"the security of the nation, the sovereignty of the country few weeks and to play a role in promoting talks between and its constitutional order are endangered by secret ac­the government and ANC. tivities." 
Liberian soldiers accused of massacring
Large segments of the Berlin Wall are being civilians are leaving few survivors in their relentless sold to Westerners for nearly $30,000, an East German search for rebels near the Ivory Coast border of Abidjan, newspaper said Thursday. Helge Moebius, an official of diplomats and medical workers said Thursday. "They tell the East German foreign trade company Limex-Bau, told really horrendous stories of soldiers spraying entire vil­the Berliner Zeitung newspaper that the 2.7 -ton segments lages with .50-caliber machine guns," a Western diplomat of the wall are bringing between $11,800 and $29,400 said. Bullets from such heavy weapons tear huge holes in each. The newspaper did not say how many pieces have bodies. been sold so far. 
NATIONAL 
Bush will nominate former New York state A synthetic compound to combat AIDS has legislator John Dunne to the top civil rights job in the shown in laboratory experiments to prnvent reproduction Justice Department, a post that has been vacant for more of the virus in a way different than AZT, the only anti-vi­than a year, he announced Thursday. Bush's first choice ral drug now approved for usc against AIDS, researchers for the job, William Lucas, failed to win Senate conlirma-announced Thursday. The compound, a manmade pnptide tion last year. The job has been vacant since December called U-81749, blocks the final stage of a process the 1988, when William Bradford Reynolds stepped down as AIDS virus uses to reproduce itself in human cells. AZT, assistant attorney general for civil rights. or zidovudine, attacks an earlier stage in the life cycln of 

the virus. A sweeping list of military base closures and 
reductions in moves is being proposed by Defense Secre­Producer Francis Ford Coppola filed for pro­tary Dick Cheney. President Bush pledged on Thursday tection from creditors under bankruptcy laws Thursday, that the list will not "cut the muscle of our defense." court officials said. Coppola and Zoetrope Productions, 
While Bush and Cheney have both declined to outline the his film company, filed separately under Chapter 11 of the exact number or scope of the changes, Pentagon and con­Bankruptcy Act, according to the clerk's office at U.S. gressional sources said the suggestions target dozens of Bankruptcy Court in Santa Hosa, Calif. installations. 
MARKET UPDATE

INDIANA ALMANAC 
Hurricane-force winds circulating around On February 2: an intense low pressure system over the Great 
e In 1653: New Amsterdam 
Lakes downed power lines and shattered highrise now New York City was 
windows Thursday, injuring a pedestrian and incorporated.
causing numerous. power outages. The system 
also pushed a cold front across the state Thurs­e In 1943: The remainder of 
day afternoon that dropped temperatures 15 to Nazi forces from. the Battle of 
20 degrees in less than an hour and deposited 1 Stalingrad surrendered in a 
to 2 inches of snow in north-central and north­major victory for the Soviets in 
east Indiana. World War II. S&P Composite 
326.08 {} 4.18 

e In 1961: The 600 passen­Dow Jones Industrials A manure wagon drawn by Belgian draft gers of a hijacked Portuguese 2561.04 .(/43.46 horses in Mill Creek, Ind. careened out of control ocean liner, the Santa Maria, 
Precious Metals
and smashed into a brand new car, impaling the were allowed to disembark in vehicle on the wagon hitch and provoking the Brazil. Gold .(/ $1.40 to $416.30 I oz. Silver../) .3¢ to $5.253 I oz.
e In 1971: Idi Amin assumed owner to raise a stink. "My new car looked ter­power in Uganda, following a
rible," said Debbie Buckmaster. "I almost cried." Source: AP 
coup that ousted President Milton Obote. 

NYSE Index 180.61 
Friday, January 26, 1990 
The Observer page 3 


Bush readies $1 billion package for Panama 
WASHINGTON (AP}-Presi­housing to replace the homes dent Bush on Thursday readied destroyed in the invasion, offi­a package of more than $1 bil­cials said. lion in economic and develop­Half of the program was to ment aid to help Panama re­be in cash and the remainder in cover from the U.S. military in­credits, they said. vasion, aides said. 
The package will go toward It would require a special rnpairing damages estimated at supplemental appropriation by up to $2 billion stemming from Congress for some of the the Dec. 20 invasion. money, but much of it would be 
The aid package was to in-financed by cutting programs elude development aid, loan that aid other countries, said guarantees and programs to the official who spoke anony­encourage investment, said one mously. official, speaking on condition The United States already has of anonymity. released $400 million in Pana-
The administration will en-manian assets frozen in the 
wurage other nations, includ-United States in earlier efforts 
ing Japan and Western Euro-to topple the regime led by Gen. 
pean nations, to also help Manuel Noriega. 
Panama's recovery. The program, if approved, 
On1~ top official said that the would make Panama one of the $1 billion is not necessarily a largest per capita aid recipients completely new package. in the world. 
"Not all of it is nPw money," Panama. which has 24 million the official said. residents. is behind on its for-The package was to ,include eign loan repayments, owing money for construction of new $5:~4 million.
ndara welcomes aid but
E ' 

only gets half of his request 
PANAMA CITY, Panama (AP) Panama's economy. But he also -Guillermo Endara, installed said the government would re-as president by the United quire a "substantial reduction States during last month's in-of its payroll." vasion, called the proposed $1 
billion U.S. aid package for Endara had asked for nearly Panama "generous support" $2 billion in a letter to Bush but said it was about half what two weeks ago, saying his his government had requested. country required that much in 
Endara said in a statement assistance and rebuilding fol­that the aid would help create lowing the Dec. 20 invasion by jobs and revitalize the interna-26,500 U.S. troops that ousted tiona! banking system, which Gen. Manuel Noriega from was once the backbone of power. 

SUMMER·JOBS 
COUNSELORS 
Boys Camp, W. Mass. • Girls Camp, Maine 
Top Salary, Rm./Bd./Laundry, Travel Allowance Must Jove kids and have skill in one of the following activites: Archery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Cheerleading, Dance. Drama. Drums, Fencing, Golf, Guitar, Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback. Karate, Lacrosse, Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio. Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scuba, Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: Women call or write: Camp Winadu Camp Vega 5 Glen Lake P.O. Box 1771 Mamaroneck, NY Duxbury, MA 10543 (914) 381-5983 02332 (617) 934-6536 

AP Photo 

Bum victim 

David Rothenberg, 13, and his stepfather, Dick Hafdahl, talk with the media at the police department in Buena Park, Calif. Wednesday about the release of David's father, Charles Rothenberg, from prison on parole. Charles Rothenberg served 6 1/2 years for setting his then 7-year old son on fire. 




Europe lashed by storm; 55 dead 
LONDON (AP} -A fierce storm with torrential rains driven by winds of up to 110 
m.p.h. cut a trail of destruction across southern England and into Europe on Thursday, killing at least 55 people in three countries. 
A reactor chimney was blown down at the Paluel nuclear power plant in France. State­owned Electricite de France said the plant was shut down immediately and any possible hazards would be monitored. 
The Dutch coast guard re­ported a Soviet fishing vessel with 56 people aboard in trou­ble off the north coast. The De­fense Department said three navy helicopters and two lifeboats were in the area to of­fer help. 
Winds caused severe damage in W@st Germany, particularly in coastal Schleswig-Holstein and Lower Saxony states, but no deaths were reported. 
Police said at least 38 people were killed in England, and that they feared the toll would rise by dawn. Winds of 90 m.p.h. snarled rail, subway and road traffic. 

Attention Music Majors, Communication Majors, Anyone Interested! 

WSND-fm 
is looking for people interested in being announcers for our classical music station. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! Stop by the information desk in LaFortune and fill out a general application by Monday, Jan. 29. 

Lashing rain smashed win­dows in central London, tore off roofs and knocked down scaffolding and billboards. Pedestrians clung to one an­other to keep their feet. Elec­tricity went off for 250,000 people in western England. 
The death toll was much higher than in October 1987, when Britain's most destructive storm in centuries killed 17 people. 
Only one British Rail station in London was open Thursday afternoon and subway service was disrupted by fallen tree limbs on surface sections. 
Some highways, including the six-lane M25 freeway circling the capital, were blocked by overturned trucks. 
Several people were killed when tree limbs crashed onto them or their cars, two children died when parts of their schools collapsed and two men restoring a 17th century house were killed by wind-blown scaf­folding. 
A man was lost overboard from the Liberian-registered freighter Serica about 200 miles off southwest Britain. 
Among the injured were Gor­den Kaye, a television comedian critically hurt when the wind hurled a plank of wood from a billboard through the wind­shield of his car. 
Ferry service across the English Channel was suspended and disrupted between Scotland and Northern Ireland, the Coast Guard said. 
"These are the worst weather conditions I have ever seen in well over 20 years of service," said Capt. James Martin, skip­per of the channel ferry Pride of Kent. "The conditions out here are atrocious." 
The Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew, which lost thousands of fine old trees to the hurricane­force winds of October 1987, lost 100 on Thursday, including 200-year-old cedars. 
Six people were reported killed in France, including a 12­year-old girl crushed when wind blew down a wall in a school courtyard, and 11 in the Netherlands. 
Dozens of people were re­ported injured along France's northern coast . 
~­ 
~  ~  
~  ~~TrERrE~TrED ~~  ~  
~  ~  
~  f~lM~?  ~  
~  ~  
~  D~RrECT~rNJG?  ~  
~  ~  
~  1\CT~rNJG?  ~  
~  ~  
~  Here's your chancel  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  Produce your dorm's entry  ~  
~  in the  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  MORRISSEY  ~  
~  ~  
~  FILM FESTIVAL  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  See your hall president or call  ~  
~ ~  Kevin Roxas at x1914 for  ~ ~  
~  information  ~  

~~~~~~~------------------------------~ 
The Observer Friday, January 26, 1990
page 4 

Veto 
continued from page 1 
pn~sidPnt, will lw SPill back," lw said. 
Tlw :~90-25 !louse vote on Wedrwsday promptPd immedi­ate criticism from tlw Chinese fondgn ministry in Beijing. A spokesman tlwre said tlw !louse was "fully revealing its anti-China position" and was risking damage to relations between the two countries. 
But Sm1. William Armstrong of Colorado, a Hepublican who opposed Bush, said~ "The House put itself squarely on record in support of human frePdom ... and made it dear it is not willing to be accom­plices" to repression of dissent. 
Sen. Hichard Lugar, H-Ind., a senior Foreign Affairs Committee nwmber, said the vote was "efparly ... a general rPport card on the president and China." But the narrowness of Bush's win signaled likely continuPd sparring ovPr U.S. policy toward the world's most populous country. 
During tlw vote, VicP President Dan Quayle prnsided 
ov e r t lw SP n a t ~~ . II i s spokesman, Dave Beckwith, said the gesturP was to "thank Hnpublican senators who wem personally inelirwd to vote the other way for giving the presi­dent the benefit of the doubt." 
Senators who supported the override said it was important to maintain u.s. leadership for human rights and to demon­strate disapproval of the Chinese government's bloody crackdown on pro-democracy 
demonstrators last June 4. Hundreds and perhaps thou­sands of demonstrators were killed in Beijing. 
Beyond protecting Chinese students from being sent home 
Most medical students suffer abuse 
CHICAGO (AP) -Becoming a doctor carries a high price in more than just money: At least four-fifths of medical students in two studies said they had sul'fered abuse, from yelling to blows by patients, faculty or peers. 
"It's a lot like child abuse," said Dr. DeWitt Baldwin, who din~cts medical education re­snarch for the American Medi­cal Association. "We knew it was tlwn~. but we somehow eouldn't believe it. 
"We didn't talk about it. We didn't think about it," said Baldwin, who co-wrote one of the two studies in Friday's Journal of the American Medi­cal Association. 
In a survey of 75 third-year medical students, 85 percent said they had been "yelled or shouted at" at least once dur­ing training, wrote Baldwin and researchers at the University of South Florida in Tampa. 
The same percentage also said they had been humiliated or subjected to inappropriately nasty or hostile behavior, the researchers reported. 
More alarming, 24 percent of the students said they had been 
to face possible persecution, 
Sen. William Cohen, H-Maine, 
said the bill represented 
"America's symbol to a world 
that is struggling to throw off 
tlw rhains of dictators." 
Another Republican, Sen. 
Slade Gorton of Washington, 
said that letting the veto stand 
sends "the signal that they can 
get away with what they have 
done and retain their power. 
And I think that's wrong." 
Congressional opponents 
have strongly criticized the 
moves, saying Bush was 
"kowtowing" to the aging lead­
ers of a brutal regime and 
abandoning those who are 
pressing for democratic re­
form. 

physically threatened, most frequently by patients, and 16 percent said they'd actually been physically abused ­slapped, kicked, hit or had things thrown at them. 
"I can't help but think that such a system is not going to create a kinder and gentler physician," said Baldwin. 
Most women students, 81 percent, said they had been subjected to sexism, most often by clinical faculty and msidents or interns. More than half-55 percent -said they had been targets of unwelcome sexual advances. 
Half of the non-white stu­dnnts said they had endured ra­cial or ethnic slurs, though none reported being denied op­portunities because of race or ethnieity. 
More than two-thirds of those surveyed felt that mistreatment in their training had interfered with their emo­tional health, and 37 percent seriously considered leaving medical school as a msult, the study said. 
Co-author K. llarrwtt Shee­han conceded that verbal abuse of medical students is an "age­old problem," but suggested the studies may prompt efforts to make the "medical school environment a more pleasant, more attractive place." 
Dr. Henry Silver, eo-author of an accompanying study, said he found students were abused far more often than he had ex­pected. 
Silver, an associate dean for admissions at the University of Colorado School of Medicinn in Denver, and his eollnagues sur­veyed 431 students, HO percent of whom reported mistreatment at some timn during their medical education. 
Silver's study defined abuse as avoidable tn~atment that is harmful, injurious or offensive, and included such things as verbal attacks. 
The study recounted the ex­perience of one student who asked his supnrior to allow him to stop examining th1~ eye of a fellow student who was in "obvious pain." 
"Whe'll I explained this to the supervising physician he said, 'Oh good, this gives us an op­portunity to learn how to force a patient to cooperate evPn if they are in pain."' 
To our favorite blond bimbette, Stephanie You'll be lucky ifyou look this good the day after 
H py 21st birthday ·· 
love, your soon to 
be ex-friends... 
Mona, Louii, Tiffany 
and Heather 

CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* OFFICE OF (CBS)
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY Sponsored by The Office of Campus Ministry
Un•vers•rv o! Noue Dome Noire Dam< IN 46556 
All students invited to attend Ecumenical Bible Study 
Every Tuesday -7:00 p.m. Office of Campus Ministry Conference Room -Badin Hall 
One Hour Sessions Bring your own Bible 
Directed by: Rev. Al D'Alonzo, CSC 
For additional information call: 239-5955 239-5242 
THE KEENAN REVUE IS  FEBRUARY  1 ,2,3  
7:00  p.m.  O'LAUGHLIN  AUDITORIUM  --SMC  
DOORS  OPEN  6:15  p.m.  
I  Questions?  Call Chris Balint:  #3347  

FIRST MEETING TUESDAY, JANUARY 30 7:00p.m. 


TICKET DISTRIBUTION 
TODAY! 
TIME & PLACE: 
[N] [Q) ~ trlUJ [Q) ~ [N] tr~ ~ 
3:00 p.m. JACC TICKET OFFICE (GATE 10) 
~[M]© ~trlUJ[Q)~!Nltr~~ 
5:00 p.m. HAGGAR PARLOR 
EACH PERSON IS ALLOWED 1 TICKET PER J.D. WITH A MAXIMUM OF 2 I.D.s PER PERSON 

page 5 

East German gov't faces resignations 
EAST BERLIN (AP) -A mi­nority party in East Germany's Communist-led government re­signed its three Cabinet posts late Thursday and called on other coalition partners to do likewise. 
The withdrawal by the Chris­tian Democratic Union (CDU), effective Feb. 9, heightened the crisis of confidence faced by the Communist government of Premier Hans Modrow. 
The official ADN news agency also said Modrow has been in­
·•f,•· vited to visit Moscow on Tues­day for talks with Soviet Presi­dent Mikhail Gorbachev. It said the trip would be a "working visit," but gave no details. The government was forced earlier Thursday to agree to major concessions to encourage free enterprise because of growing pressure for market 
reforms and reunification with 
West Germany. 
CDU leader Lothar de 
Maiziere said the three CDU 
ministers would serve in the 27­
member Cabinet until Feb. 9, 
effectively setting a deadline for 
Modrow to build a new Cabinet 
that includes pro-democracy 
opposition groups. 
ADN quoted de Maiziere as saying his party took the step to "make way for negotiations with new parties and groups" toward formation of a new government, and "assumes other parties in the government will take the same steps." 
Communists now hold 16 ministerial posts, Liberal Democrats four, Christian Democrats three, and the Na­tional Democrats and farmers' party two each. 
Terminally ill may get life insurance benefits 
The Obset:Ver 
is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Day Editors 
For information, please contact Erin O'Neill at 239-5303 or 283-4215 
(AP) -The nation's top life insurer plans to allow termi­nally ill policyholders and those permanently confined to nurs­ing homes to tap into death benefits while they are still alive, providing them cash to cover the enormous cost of dy­ing. 
Insurance experts say the move by the Prudential Insur­ance Company of America could bring big change to the industry and advance new solutions to the growing crisis in long-term care. 
"It's going to encourage other companies to follow," said John Booth, vice president and chief actuary with the American Council of Life Insur­ance. "Lots of people have been talking about this kind of pol­icy, but no one has acted." 

Prudential's new "living needs benefit program," to be an­nounced on Friday, is the first mass market plan to allow life insurance policyholders access to their death benefits before they die. 
It will be available initially to current policyholders in 10 states where regulators have already approved the program: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Col­orado, Florida, Idaho, Ken­tucky, Montana, New Jersey and West Virginia. 
The insurer hopes to expand the program to 3 million poli­cyholders throughout the coun­try, although in some states, that would require changes in state law. 
Current policyholders with death benefits of $25,000 are automatically eligible. New cus­tomers with policies of $50,000 can also qualify. There will be no additional cost. 
Prudential will pay nearly the face value of a policy if a doctor certifies the policyholder has less than six months to live. 
Policyholders in nursing homes for at least six months with no hope of leaving can also elect to receive their own death benefits, either in a lump sum or in monthly payments. 
Prudential President Joseph Melone said the company wants to help policyholders facing huge medical expenses. 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
Featurmg Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 
#KKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK~ ~ J©<fi)~t® f>ij~~~ & Sl!Jifb~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ corner US 31-33 & State Line Rd. ~ ~ *pizza *subs -17 different varieties ~ ~ *spaghetti *lasagna *********** * ~ 
~ *shrimp *fish *chicken :WE DELIVER ~ ~ ~ *taco salads & burritos -tl 684-71 00 -tl ~ ~ *garlic bread & bread stix ************ ~ ~ *ribs (hickory smoked) closed Sundays ~ 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~@~~mBcs@OU~@OUOUB0J0 t7@0JC? ~@0@~C?0J~U®OU rUDENT ~~[J)Q~[ill~[j' TIWTI ""®csQ®~Ci' TICV>9j 
Applications for Student Executive Committee Due TODAY by 4:00pm to Student Government Secretary-Barb 2nd Floor LaFortune MEMBERSHIP Junior -Co-chair Sophomore -Co-chair 
\ ­

3 )unlor Reps 3 Sophomore Reps 3 Frosh Reps 
page 6 The Observer 
Azerbaijan conflict has deep roots 
MOSCOW (AP) -What began as a tnrritorial dispute has be­come an all-out crusade by Azllrbaijanis and Armenians to achieve nthnic, nationalistic and religious goals. 
Suspicions and hostilities with deep historical roots are fueling the wave of unrest that bngan two years ago and esca­latnd Jan. 1:~ into brutal ethnic attacks and open warfare. 
The latm1t tension was exac­erbated by current conditions in the Caucasus: the feeling that economic and political reforms have not improved people's livns in the largely underdevel­oped region plagued by unem­ployment and environmental woes. 
The conflict has turned the rugged hills of the southern Caucasus into what even Soviet officials have called Mikhail Gorbachev's Lebanon: the most protracted and bloodiest mani­festations of the ethnic strife sweeping tlw Soviet Union and one of the most serious crises he has faced. 
It has encompassed 15 mil­lion people, including residents of both republics as well as members of the two ethnic groups in neighboring Georgia and southern Hussia. 
Such diverse observers as world chess champion Garri Kasparov, an Armenian-Jew who was born in the Azerbai­jani capital of Baku, and Soviet First Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Bessmertnykh agree that ethnic -not religious mo­tivations -are foremost. Ar­menians are predominantly Christians and Azerbaijanis Shiite Moslem. 
Western scholars call it an ethnic conflict with religious overtones. 
Fanatical Azerbaijanis vowed to drive all Armenians off their land. 
The Azerbaijani People's Front, which has spearheaded the anti-Armenian campaign, has also called for their repub­lie to secede from the Soviet mostly Armenians, that is claimed by both sides. 
Nagorno-Karabakh became a battle cry that woke up ancient hostilities between Armenians and Azerbaijanis. The weekly magazine Ogonyok on Sunday published an appeal to Armeni­ans and Azerbaijanis to "win over each other with love and forgiveness, not weapons and lire." The appeal dates back to July 1905. 
But there has been little at­tempt to hide the hatred. 
As the feud produced hun­dreds of thousands of refugees, the hatred increased and the 

Union and establish "special , stones, torches and guns came 
ties" with Iran and other Is­lamic countries. 
It is not just idle talk. 
Most Armenians were indeed forced out. and the People's Front was involved in the de­struction of border defenses on Soviet Az~rbaijan's frontier with Iran this month. Protesters called for reunifying Soviet Azerbaijan and the two Azerbaijani provinces of Iran, a region that was part of Persia until Hussian expansion under the czars forced its division in 1828. 
Tempers of Armenians and Azerbaijanis flared for nearly two years, heating up each time politicians in Baku, Moscow or the Armenian capital of Yere­van made decisions concerning Nagorno-Karabakh, the poor, hilly district of 186,000 people, 
· out. Hostages were taken, rail­
road bridges blown up, water 
pipes severed, homes burned 
and Soviet troops ambushed. 
The voice of reason has been 
losing out to extremism, said 
Arkady Volsky, formerly the 
Kremlin's hand-picked adminis­
trator of Nagorno-Karabakh. 
The point was driven home to 
him after meeting with elderly 
Armenians and Azerbaijanis in 
a tiny village. 
"The oldsters emerged from 
the meeting in a mood of rec­
onciliation. But young people, 
inflamed by nationalist 
rhetoric, did not go along with 
them," Vol sky told the 
magazine New Times. 
Much of the bitterness, he 
said, comes from refugees, who 
account for 10 percent of the 
district's population. 

Friday, January 26, 1990 

AP Photo 
Azerbaijanis stand near anti-Gorbachev graffiti painted on the wa!: near Baku's Communist Party headquarters. The sign on the right says: Gorbachev, you are the killer of our children, while the phrase on the left is: The USSR is the stronghold of colonialism. 
Truce 
continued from page 1 
ing. It also was uncertain whether the two organizations could enforce it. 
Martin Martirosyan, a spokesman for the the Arrne­nian All-National Movement, said no agreement had been reached yet on an exchange of hostages. lie said thrt~e Arrne­nians wen~ being held by Azer­baijanis. 
Tass also said a truce was reached on the border of Ar­menia's ldzhevan district and Azerbaijan's Kazakh district. 
Christian Armenians and Moslem Azllrbaijanis have been feuding for thll past two years primarily over control of Nagorno-Karabakh, a section of Azerbaijan populated mainly by ethnic Armenians. 
The feud has exploded into a virtual civil war and has fueled a nationalist movement to make Azerbaijan independent of the Soviet Union. 
On Jan. 13-14, Azerbaijanis attacked ethnic Armenians liv­ing in the Baku, killing dozens. Fighting between armed groups has killed dozens more. 
On .Jan. 19, Soviet soldiers moved into Baku to smash bar­ricades set up by nationalists and end the bloodshed. In less than two weeks of violence, at least 171 people have been killed. 
The 130-mile border between Armenia and Nakhichevan has been among the most tense in the struggle. On Sunday, a fu­neral was held in Yerevan, Ar­menia, for an Armenian na­tionalist leader, Mofses Gor­gisyan, who was killed in light­ing there last week. 
Witnesses said they have seen nationalists lighting there with automatic weapons and ar­tillery taken from Soviet sol­die~ 

SOVIET UNION
-

Intercollegiate Tour , July 1990 Led by Prof. James Butterfield (PHd, Notre Dame) For information contact: Western Michigan U. Office of International Affairs Kalamazoo, Ml 49008 Tel. toll free 1-800-876-3951 
EXPOSE ND TO STUDENTS FROM OTHER CATHOLIC COLLEGES 
ND students are needed to help/assist/host students lrom other Catholic colleges at the National Association ol Catholic Colleges' Conference to be held at ND on Feb. 2 • 4. 
Many people are neede • II interested, informational meeting will be held Sunday, January 28 at 8:00pm in LaFortune Student Gov't o&lce. 
Any questions caD lUUS 



ROMA:VCE, GREAT Ml'SIC. E.\TRERA1\T /J.L\'CI.W; 
The London Hit Musical! 

A Jo,·e story wown with intrrnational intril!llt' ha~t·d on a chess game brtween Soviet and AmPrican 1\ta,tt•r,. 
Features the hit songs "One :\il!ht in Bangkok" and "I Know Him So Well", one of \\"hitnt'' Houston's favorite !'longs from lwr Ill'" alhur~1. 
Morris Civic Auditorium February 9-10 
Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m. Tickets: Eves.· $28.50$23.50$16..50$12.50 Matinee· $23.50 $19.50 $ J4..50 $10.50 
BOX OFFICE OPE~ 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday Telephone 284-9190 


MasterCard & VISA Group. :'ill!ll'nt & Accepted ~~nior f.itizf'n Disrouut 
A Br()(Ulu:a.v Theatre Leltf!IU! Pn•.<~•nlation 

Friday, January 26, 1990 The Observer 
NATO report says Gorbachev's reforms will probably not succeed 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP} -fleeted in the continuing decline Economic reforms initiated by of the Soviet Union's economic Mikhail Gorbachev have had lit-position. tie impact so far in the Soviet "The survival prospects for Union and appear unlikely to economic reforms in the Soviet succeed, NATO believes. Union -now admitted by the 
A NATO study obtained leadership to be in a 'state of Thursday by The Associated crisis' -become increasingly Press called the failure evident doubtful." from the decline in Soviet living The report said no Commu­standards. nist nation has succeeded in 
The report, based on infor-transforming a centrally mation up to July, compared planned economy to a flourish-economic reforms in China and ing free-market system, mainly the Soviet Union. Economic an-because of the conflicting inter­alysts of the 16-nation North ests between demands for eco-Atlantic Treaty Organization nomic reforms and the goals of compiled the study and handed Communist parties and the it to NATO foreign ministers in vested interests of their mem-December. bers. 
It said, "The failure of the The analysts found, Soviet leadership to press "Whenever it came to do or die ahead with key measures such in past reform efforts, the as price reforms, and the half-party bureaucrats have always lwarted manner in which it has put their own interest first, as approached the growing fiscal reflected once again by recent and morwtary crisis, are re-events in China." 
STUDYFOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR 7WO TERMS IN 
OXFORD 
Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Council to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges and recetve transcripts from their Oxford college: this is N<IT a program conducted by a U.S. College in Oxford. 3.2 mtntmum index in major required. 
An alternattve program which is sponsored by a U.S. University is available for students with minimum indexes of 
2.7. Studentswill have social and athletic rights in an Oxford college and the fees are substantially less. 
INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON 
WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House, with the media and with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by senior­level government officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced journalists. Similar opportunities in public policy internships are offered (with academic credit) in London (Fall, Spring and Summer). 
wnsc 
EO/ AA 

The Washington International Studies Council 214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E. Suite 450 Washington, D.C. 20002 
(202) 547-3275 

It said that from the start, economic programs in the So­viet Union and China were hampered by "unsuitable politi­cal institutions," and predicted the reform drive in China would lose more ground. The study said reform has been "rechanneled toward areas aG­ceptable to the new, more con­servative and suspicious lead­ership in Beijing." 
Poland and Hungary, leaders in the moves toward democracy in Eastern Europe, offered the prospect of cutting ties between the Communist Party bureau­cracy and its vested interest in obsolete economic structures, the study held, adding: 
"Gorbachev's support for these efforts in Hungary and Poland may be indicative of his own vision of reform." 
The NATO report said, "By trying to maintain the country's 'socialist achievements,' eco­nomic reforms in the Soviet Union will remain piecemeal. 
"But piecemeal reforms to a 
AP Photo 
centrally planned economy gen­

Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange watch tele­
erate unpredictable frictions 

vision monitors for market activity. Losers overwhelmed gainers
that would not arise if other 

by about 12 to 1 in nationwide trading of NYSE-Iisted issues on
economic variables were free to 

Wednesday.
adapt to remove their sting." 


IRISH SWIMMING 
SWIMMING SWIMMING SWIMMING SWIMMING 
CRUSH THE BONNIES! 
-From the Boys in Chicago 

~[f® W©M ocroit®[f~'lt~ 0[1i) fiD®~©[fi])O[]i)® <ID 
~itM@J®rnlit @i@W@[f[Ji)!Ji1U® rnlit ~ ®ciD@J®ff7? 
Mandatory information meeting for all student body president and vice president candidates: Monday, January 29 7:00 at Theodore's 
Campaign runs from Mon., Feb. 5 -Sun., Feb. 11 
Crash 
continued from page 1 
ried 142 passengers and a crew of seven, authorities said. 
Caracol Radio in Colombia, however, reported there were 151 people aboard, but did not differentiate between passen­gers and crew. 
Crawley said several cutters and boats were en route to the area just in case some debris or victims were in the water. 
"We have reports that the crash is on land and that it's in four major pieces," Crawley said. 
Control tower officials said the plane may have lost power in one of its four engines. Bergen, the FAA spokeswoman, said the agency had reports the plane lost a second engine as well. 
Peter Whitelaw, who lives down a hill from the crash site, said he could see a small por­tion of the downed plane through the trees. He said there were few homes in the area. 
"I heard a rumbling, a very loud rumbling," said Whitelaw, who was on an indoor tennis court at the time. "It sounded as if your car was gearing back and you were stripping the gears, and the typical rumble you get from a jet plane going over." 
"Normally in bad weather they circle out here but this was louder than normal. Then we heard the crash," he said, adding that through the woods "I see no flames or smoke, or smell anything." 
He said the road leading to the crash site was clogged with emergency vehicles. 
"These are very narrow roads," Whitelaw said. "They're trying the best they can to get to where it crashed. They're running up the road with stretchers and medical equipment." Most phone lines were down and power was cut off, he said. 
"I happened to see a plane going very low," said another witness, David Johnson. "At the altitude it was at I really could not hear any engines. So I am assuinirtg the engines had conked out but there really was no fire or anything." 
The area of the crash is near Oyster Bay Harbor on the north shore of Long Island. 
~-~--------~-~--·------~-----­
r-----~---~--------------~--~·~ 
page a The Observer 
Democrats: Drug plan not enough 
WASHINGTON (API Demoerats on Thursday said President Hush's updated pro­posal for waging the nation's drug war is underfinaneed and fails to get to the root of the problem. Hepublicans praised the president for seeking $1.1 billion more in the fight against drugs. 
Hep. Charles Hangel, D-N.Y. and chairman of the !louse Nareotics Committee, said the drug plan Hush announeed ear­lier in the day has "big holes in it, but it's a lot more than we had before we pass1~d the 1988 drug act," which required the administration to draw up a strategy to combat the drug scourge. 
Hangnl said lack of ndueation and unemployment contribute to the problem and must be ad­dressed before drugs can be conqunred. lie also scoffed at the president's plan to broaden the death penalty for drug kingpins. 
"Jails and eleetroeutions are 
Drugs 
continued from page 1 
Calling drugs "this nation's No. I concern," Bush an­nounced his proposal in a 
White I louse spench to newspa­per nditors. 
Tho plan is thn sneond phase of the drug war stratogy un­vniled in Septemb1~r and targets five <m~as for intensified fed­oral drug-fighting offorts. 
While daiming progr<~ss in tho drug war, Bush said, "Given the headlinos we've seon re­eently, it's clear we're only get­ting started." 
In response to a question, Bush said he felt "gnmt sad­ness, gnmt tragedy" over the arrnst of Distriet of Columbia Mayor Marion Barry on mis­denwanor coeaine charges. 
popular politically but I don't think the president was serious when he put forth in the drug strategy that we should have a death penalty at this point," Rangel said. 
Sen. Joseph Biden Jr., D-Del., 
who is sponsoring a rival drug 
strategy. told the National Con­
ference of Mayors that the 
administration should put less 
emphasis on casual users and 
more on hard-core addicts. 
Bielen's version would cost 
$14.6 billion in the next fiscal 
year, compared to $10.6 billion 
for the administration's plan. 
Hangel and Biden both com­
plained that national drug pol­
icy coordinator William Bennett 
has not been elevated to Cabinet 
status, with the Senate Ju­
diciary Committee chairman 
noting that Bush already is 
seeking it for the head of the 
Environmental Protection 
Agency. 
"If it applies to the environ­ment, why does it not apply to the single greatest scourge fac­ing this country today?" Biden asked the mayors. 
But Sen. Hobert Kasten, H­Wis., warmly applauded the administration's revised plan, saying it "signals the kind of get-tougher approach that the public is crying out for." 
"Treatment and tougher penalties including beefed in­terdiction plans are a good step 
' 
forward," he said. "When the mayor of the capital city of the free world is arrested for crack use, the American public knows that the drug situation in this country has gotten out of hand." 
Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, scoffed at complaints from Hiden that the administration focuses too hard on casual users instead of hard-core ad­dicts. "They're all criminals," he said. He said casual use is a problem "that has put a drug thug at the door of every junior high school in America." 
"This is a plan that grabs the drug thugs by the nape of the neck," Gramm declared. 
Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., who represents a district along the Mexican border, said Bush was right to stress interdiction and punishment. 
"Supply is so large it's affect­ing demand," he said, with co­caine "so cheap that drug deal­ers can hand out free samples" and create new addicts. 
lie said the number of drug dealers is not decreasing, be­cause roughly the same number are released from prison as the number who are arrested. 
"We have to extract dealers from the population and keep them out long enough for kids to get cleaned up," he said. 
Chinese-Americ1n Restaurant & Cocktail Loun&e 
Authentic Szechuan Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

Friday, January 26, 1990 
Mayors dismiss Bush's drug plan as inadequate 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The nation's big-city mayors on Thursday dismissed as inad­equate the billion-dollar in­crease in the war on drugs proposed by President Hush and said it shortchanges their efforts to treat addiets. 
"We can't win the war on drugs with $10.6 billion," said Philadelphia Mayor W. Wilson Goode, citing the size of the federal anti-drug ef­fort proposed by the White House. 
"It is woefully inade­quate," said New York Mayor David Dinkins, whose city was among those that would get special attention and money as a "high-inttm­sity" drug use area under Bush's proposaL 
"It'll make some differ­
ence, but not much," Dinkins 
said. 
The mayors were attending the winter meeting of the 
U.S.1 Conference of Mayors, a gathering Bush plans to ad­dress on Friday. His appear­ance will be the first by a president since President 
Carter a decade ago. Goode and Dilikins, both Democrats. were joined by other Democratic mayors and two Republicans. Hichard Berkley of Kansas City, Mo. and Sue Myrick of Charlotte, N.C. at a news confewnce providing the or­ganization's official re­sponse. While Bush's plan ~on modest praise as a step m the right direction, none of the mayors suggested the proposal was dose to ade­quate. 
The president of the con­ference, Democrat Pr1~sidPnt Kathryn Whitmire of Houston, Bush's adopted hometown, said the size of Bush's proposal suggested the drug problem is not at the top of tho nation's agenda despite political rhetoric to the contrary. 
She said mayors agree the federal government should provide direet aid to the na­tion's cities, rather than through stat<J governments as it does now. 
The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street Mishawaka 
259-6322 
Hours: 7 30 a.m. ·9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
WASHIEIR§ ONlV 854: 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound Thursday: Tanning · $3.00 per session 
Pick-up. wash. dry. fold. deliver 
SAME DAY SERVICE 


Champion International Corporation-one of America's leading n1an~fa~turers of paper for business communications, commercial printing, publications, and newspapers-invites Saint Mary's and Notre Dame seniors to interview for sales representative positions. 
SMC 
Reception 

Stapleton Lounge, Monday, january 29, 7-9pm 
Interviews 

all majors invited, Tuesday, january 30 and Wednesday, january 31 
Notre Dame 
Reception 

Notre Dame Room at the Morris Inn, Monday, january 29, 7-9pm 
Interviews 

A & L, BBA, Tuesday, january 30 MBA, Wednesday, january 31 



Viewpoint
Friday, January 26, 1990 page 9 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Coccia R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly K1llen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Alison Cocks Accent Editor . John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brenn1nkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Ba1ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstme Gill Controller Anne Lindner 
The Observer 1s the 1ndependent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the administratiOn of e1ther institution The news IS reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned editorials represent the op1mon of the matonty of the follow1ng Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef. Manag1ng Editor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor. V1ewpo1nt Editor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Saint Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes letters. and the lns1de Column present the views of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the community and the free express1on of vary1ng op1mons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 

U.S. invasion of Panama betrays public trust 
posed government. In any case, write, to see things from the 
By James Stukas 
if this is justification for an in­point of view of someone from 
vasion, what is taking so long the Third World. 
Polls show that 80% of the to invade South Africa and I already know that you are people in the United States hundreds of other non-democ­going to tell me that 90% of all support the invasion of Panama racies around the world? Panamanians support the inva­by U.S. forces. No one asked What this exercise in debunk­sion. There is no doubt that mn. but I am dncidndly against ing is intended to do is show many people are happy that this illngal action by our gov­that the real reason Bush de­Noriega is gone. But how many nrnment. cided to invade Panama is that really support the invasion, the 
I had the privilege to travel to he could, and he wanted to. bombing, the killing, the de­Europe during this past break. Might makes right, basically, struction? Very few, I would and I was in Rome when the in­in the "new" conception of for­hazard to guess. vasion began. Thus, I was not eign affairs. It also is quite If you were to poll the inhabi­subjected to the government ~~~~~~~~~~~is, popular, it seems, as Bush tants of any other country, and propaganda which was appar­to the U.S. for trial. While this without any concern for the probably learned from the 1983 ask if they would like to be in­ently carried by all the major goal was accomplished, to ac­number of Panamanian lives invasion of Grenada (another vaded to depose a dictator, I 
U.S. media. but rather I fol­cept it as a rationale for inva­which would be lost. You can thoroughly unjustified opera­believe strongly that they would lowed the invasion by reading sion puts the U.S. in an odd rest assured that the number of tion.) say no, as those of us here in French and Spanish papers. spot in the future. Does this not Panamanians who would be I am sure that there are many the United States would. They These papers saw the invasion commit us to invading other wounded or lose their homes people reading this that are would rightly say no thank you, for what it was: a jihad ordered countries-Colombia and Iran was not given a second getting upset and are all set to that is a job we must do our­by President Bush in order to come to mind-whenever there is thought. write back in response to my selves, or else we are still in depose his ex-colleague General someone who is an outlaw by The third reason Bush gives "left-wing" views. That's fine, chains. Noriega from power. U.S standards living there? for the invasion was to "protect but please leave out the invec­
The French paper Liberation And what if, heaven forbid, American rights under the tive and put some consideration James Stukas is a graduatealso carried a story which has there are people in the United Panama Canal Treaty." I am into your views. Try, as you student in economics. yet to be mentioned in any U.S. States who are wanted in third not an expert on this treaty, source that I have seen: that countries; does this justify an but I am unaware that it gives casualties far exceed those invasion of the U.S. by this one country the right to invade 
LETTERS 
admitted by the U.S. govern­third country? I think not, and the other in the event it doesn't ment. The paper interviewed a I believe this shows that like the other's government. In 
Course evaluations provide helpful
Panamanian who works at one Noriega alone could not possi­fact, I am fairly sure that the of the major cemeteries in bly justify the destructive power treaty explicitly prohibits the input for handbook of fall classes
Panama City, and he tells of the U.S. armed forces deployed United States from interfering burying hundreds of people in against the Panamanian people. in the internal affairs of Dear Editor: mation on course content ana common graves, most of whom, The second justification given Panama. In a few days, Notre Dame teaching quality, information the man relates, were brought for the invasion would be The Panamanians were obvi­students will be receiving in the which can help students to by U.S. military in plastic bags laughable if it weren't so sick. ously naive to have believed mail the 1989 Student Govern­choose the best courses and the marked "unknown." A bull­That is, Bush claimed that he that we would keep our word ment Faculty Course Evalua­best teachers without relying dozer was used to fill in the invaded Panama in order to there. This is another good tions (FCEs). on hearsay. graves. The paper estimated save American lives. One soldier reason to study history-both These evaluations will ask The success of the FCEs relies Panamanian deaths as "at least had been killed, and another United States history (see sec­students to rate the quality of on participation. Last year, a two thousand." had been harassed and threat­tion on Native American course material and teaching in similar project failed because 
I suppose that I should be ened, along with his wife. treaties with) and Latin their first semester classes, and too few students filled out their used to my government lying to For this, Bush sent something American history (See the chap­will include space for additional surveys. We hope that this year me, and having their fabrica­like 14,000 troops to invade, ters on Nicaragua, the comments. There will be boxes everyone will participate, and tions believed and even cele­supplementing the 12,000 al­Dominican Republic and Chile, in each dorm to drop off the we will have a course selection brated by the general public. ready in place. At least 23 died. among others). completed forms. handbook in the spring as our But the justifications given for Already you see the double­Finally, Bush claims that the If response to this survey is reward. this invasion are so flimsy, so speak in this "reason". invasion was necessary to re­large enough, the results will be Matt Breslin illogical, and so unbelievable But there is more. It has been store democracy to Panama. compiled into a handbook, Student Body President that I cannot leave them un­reported that Bush was advised Whether indeed this goal will be which will be distributed to all Dave Kinkopf challenged. that a few dozen American lives achieved, only time will tell; all students before registration for Student Body 
The first justification for the would be lost in the invasion. we know right now is that next fall's classes. This hand­Vice-President invasion was supposedly to ap-Based on this estimate, Bush Panama has a U.S. military-im-book will provide inside infor-Jan.23, 1990 
DOONESBURY 
50/A/HAT WOIJUJ YOU UK&TOOfAT A80lJT 7DPAY, 
&LMONTr 

AS ONe OF 7H& HAV6-NOTS, I'M PRBT7Y STf;AMW A80lfT 
THIS PROPOSEPCAP!TAL.6AIN5 
TAX aJTFOR THe HAVSS, HAV6­HAP5 AN/J M//f,L.-HAVB5l 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
AU THl3 FAT ClfT5 ARE: JlET $TTIN' FATT13R, IAJHIW TH£3 Re5T OF US SIT OUT IN TH& COW! 7HBS8 PEOPU3 ARP 
~ZIN'115 Ol/T/ YOU KNOW 
lA/HAT 1 CALL. IF I COINW 
A PHRAse -THE Cf)f,f) IU4R! 
""' 

'It you have no enemies, you are apt to be in the same predicament in regard to friends.' 
Elbert Hubbard 

--~-~-~-~ 
f 

r 
MUSIC 

The Fabulous Starlettes, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m., $5. The Jones, Club Shenanigans, 10 p_m. 

ON CAMPUS 
St. Paul and the Martyrs, band, Theodore's. Noises Off, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. 
MUSIC 

The Fabulous Starlettes, Center Street Blues Cafe, 
~ 
9:30p.m., $5. ~ • The Jones, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. 
"'0 
COMEDY 

;; Misfits in Disguise, Alumni-Senior Club, 9 p.m.-2 
~a.m. 
~ ONCAMPUS 
v-1 Noises Off, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. 


NOTRE DAME Friday 

"Twins", Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. "Annie Hall", Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30p.m. "Say Any1hing", Annenburg Auditorium, 9:30p.m. 
Saturday 

"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade", Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. "Annie Hall", Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30p.m. "Say Any1hing", Annenburg Auditorium, 9:30p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 

"Born on the Fourth of July", 7 and 9:50 p.m. "Driving Miss Daisy", 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Leatherface", 7:20 and 9:20p.m. "Steel Magnolias", 7:15 and 9:35p.m. "Ski Patrol", 7:10 and 9:10p.m. "Tremors", 7:40 and 9:40 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 

"Blaze", 9:15p.m. "Back to the Future II", 7 and 9:30p.m. "Internal Affairs", 7 and 9:30p.m. 
FORUM 

"Everybody Wins", 7:40 and 9:40p.m. "Tango & Cash", 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. "Downtown", 7:45 and 9:45p.m. 
TOWN AND COUNTRY 

"The War of the Roses", 7:15, 8:45 and 9:45p.m. "Always", 7 and 9:30p.m. 
•

review "Roger" tells tale of 
CHRIS DONNELLY 
editor-in-chief 

ichael 
Moore didn't have a job. 
The former 
editor of an alternative newspaper in Flint, Mich., had just been fired after a brief stint as editor of Mother Jones magazine and found himself back in his hometown. Flint, with nothing to do. 
At about the same time, General Motors decided to eliminate 35,000 jobs in the city of Flint, and Moore had found something to do. lie decided to dedicate the next few years of his life (and his entire life savings) to produce a film about GM's destruction of his hometown. 
The result of his labors and sacrifices is the current film "Roger and Me," which cost under $160,000 to produce. The film is currently playing at The Fine Arts Theatre in Chicago and is expected to come to South Bend in ???. 
"Hoger and Me" is the story of the demise. of 1-ilint. Mich., and Moore's attmnpt of' eon front GM Chairman Hoger Smith about the issue. The hunt for Smith takes Moore to his country dub, stockholders' meetings. athletic clubs, and GM headquarters in Detroit. all of which are chronicled in the film. 
Moom never gets to speak with Smith. but his quest and the story of Flint still make for an extremely satirical and humorous look at American industry. 
The most intriguing aspect of the film is that there are no actors. Moore speaks directly with the people of Flint at the plant closing, evictions, parades, etc., and asks them 

Su Casa: Not the ordi 
JOHN BLASI 
accent editor 
I 
f the thought of another taco salad at Chi-chi's sounds unappealing, and you happen to be 
going near the 
Hard Rock Cafe in Chicago, 
then stop by Su Casa for some 
good, moderately priced 
Mexican food. 
Located in the trendy River North area right next to Pizzeria Due's, Su Casa's full course meals at moderate prices make it a great stop for the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's roadtripper before heading out to Rush Street or Lincoln Park. 
Start your meal with some of the best margaritas in town. These margaritas do not taste like they just came out of the Slurpee machine at the local 7­11 with a dash of tequila thrown in for flavor. Su Casa's margaritas are a delicate blend of lime, tiny ice balls, and te­

about their lives and how GM the blue-collar workers but also 
has affected them. Most remark with celebrities (e.g. Pat Boone, 
that they feel as if GM has Bob Eubanks, and Miss 
abandoned them and the town Michigan) and other more 
which made GM great. prominent citizens of Flint. The 
Moore not only speaks with most common sentiment among 
Roger & Me, by Michael Moore, is about the closing of a GM plant. 
•

review 

quila. Be sure to order the 
smaller of the two sizes as even 
these are quite potent. 
Immediately after you sit down, Su Casa's attentive staff will serve a basket of home­made chips with salsa sauce. Ask for water, or the spicy sauce might cause you to finish your first margarita after only a few chips. 
Many of Su Casa's entrees include a guacamole salad which is essentially a gua­camole dip for your chips, so hold off on ordering appetizers until you have decided what you're going to order for din­ner. 
Both of the entrees we tried, the Su Casa special #2 ($8.95), and the Chile Relleno ($8.95), are full meals that include the guacamole salad, rice, refried beans, and sherbet or sopapil­las for dessert. The Su Casa Special #2 consists of three chicken or cheese and onion enchiladas served in a delicious green sauce with sour cream. 
The Chile Helleno is a slight variation on the dish I have had in the Southwest. Su Casa's Chile Relleno is a bell pepper stufl"ed with a choice of' chnesn or ground beef snuffled in egg batter and simmered in tomato sauce. The bell pepper is not as spicy as its Mexican cousin, but its larger size allows for more cheese stuffing. or the dishes included with the dinners. the fresh guacamole salad is by far the best. The sopapillas, tortillas dusted with brown sugar and honey, arc good but unexceptional. 
Su Casa also offers a numbnr of less expensive dishes, includ­ing more standard Mexican restaurant fare such as tacos ($4.95), tamales (three for $3.25), and chivichanga ($5.25). However, these dishes do not include rice, refried beans or dessert. 
Several of the chefs sugges­tions sounded intriguing, such as the Chicken Poblano ($8.95), a grilled chicken breast served with sa& 
tomatoe 
toppPd i 
checse.1 
their Tel 
dishes, i 
Antonio 
males 
Texas 
In add 
as 

Blanea. 
Try the 
Chipas 
touch 
Kahlua dinner 
The Cas a up to i casa. I 
people~ spelling5 
menu, d1 will be h thing, des..:.-i Engli 

,;oq -.. 
page 11 

lant closing 
those questioned is that, despite the loss of 35,000 jobs, there would be plenty to do in Flint if these people were not so lazy. 
The question Moore asks throughout the film is "What moral and ethical responsibilities do large corporations have for the well­being of their workers and the towns they support?" He remarks that GM made five billion dollars the year it closed the Flint factories. "Is making an extra $20 million or $30 million worth destroying the lives of 35,000 people and an entire community?" he asks. 
The questions are, needless to say, never answered, but viewers will leave the theater wondering about them and questioning the importance of corporate ethics. The message of the film is clear and. although it is a satirical look at corporate America, it is hard to avoid a strong feeling of pity for those who have been displaced by GM. Expp,ct a film with an important point that doesn't take itself too seriously. Do not expect a side-splitting comedy. 
The docunwntary and low­budget quality of the film is an enjoyable change from the hi­tech films we am used to. Moore interspPrses his interviews with vintage footage of the town and his own comnwntary, which hnlps keep thP moviP fast-paced. 
Tlw film. however. could have done without an off-color, anti­Semetic joke told by Bob Eubanks. whirh was out of place and unnecessary, and the filming of the killing and skinning of a rabbit. 
Although the movie has bPen named as rme of the top ten films of 19H'J by both Janet Maslin and Vincent Canby of The New York Times and has received numerous awards at many film festivals. it is not without its critics. The most prominent critic to date is 
Pauline Kael of The New 
Yorker, whose review has been widely circulated by GM. 
Kael and others point out that Moore has taken considerable liberties with the sequence of events in the film. Although all the events happened, the order in which they occurred is misrepresented at points. They note that. in addition to other inconsistencies, the movie suggested that Ronald Reagan visited Flint as president when he really visited when he was only a candidate. 
Moore admits that the timing of events was not strictly as they occurred. but he denies that the film is inaccurate. The liberties he takes are unfortunate because they hurt the documentary credibility of the film, but they do help to keep the film entertaining and well paced. 
Movie notes: 
• 
The film has grossed $1.5 million so far but has not yet had a sold-out showing. This is because one seat must always be saved for Roger Smith, who has not yet seen the film. 

• 
Moore raised the $160,000 to produce the film through small contributions, Bingo gamns. grants. and his own personal savings. Thn distribution rights to the film wern bought from Moore by Warner Brothers for $3 million. 

• 
Moore and his crew had no experience in movie production when they started. They were given an introduction to the art by an old friend of Moore's, Kevin Rafferty, who co-directed "The Atomic Cafe." 

• 
Moore is donating his profits to non-profit organizations (and is creating one of his own) that will support this type of movie making. 



ary margaritas 
~ed diced onions, 
Poblano peppers, and th imported Mexican 1 Casa is also proud of LS Chili Con Carne duding the San pncial ($6.00). ta­err:d with their own 
iii. tion to the great mar­·u Casa offers a variety ed Mexican beers such 
. Tecate, Carta nd Dos Equis Dark. ntastic sounding Cafe 2.95), coffee with a :innamon spiked with randy. for an after­ink. 
ndly service at Su s the restaurant live 
otto, Mi Casa es Su m are one of those 10 uses the phonetic 
n the Taco Bell 
't worry. The staff ppy to suggest some-the menu provides 
ns of the dishes in 
~u Casa~(Q)~~ 
Featuring Mexican cuisine 
Located at 49 East Ontario St., Chicago, Illinois 
Moderate prices Reservations recommended 
Phone: (312) 943-4041 
•

rev1ew 
Tracy Chapman 
arrives at the ''Crossroads'' 
YOLANDA KNIGHT accent writer 
I 
n 1988 a new face appeared on the American music scene with skin of ebony and features that are uniquely and beautifully African. Clad in black and armed with merely an acoustic guitar, she forced the world to listen to the truth, insight, and wisdom which seemed to far transcend her 24 years of life through music, the universal language. 
Just as unique as her appear­
ance is her style of music. It is 
often characterized by critics as 
folk; however, the rhythmic 
percussions, along with her 
soulful and haunting voice, add 
something that makes the 
sound distinctly Tracy 
Chapman's. 

The lyrics also contribute to a 
style that is all her own. They 
are not merely words but a sin­
gular form of poetry, expressing 
universal truths about the 
human condition. Her first sin­
gle, "Fast Car," gave her inter­
national recognition. As a re­
sult, her self-titled debut al­
bum, dealing with themes from 
racism and poverty to domestic 
violence, went multi-platinum. 
Now she has returned to the 
music charts after a hiatus of 
almost two years, and her latest 
recording, Crossroads, in which 
Chapman expands the themes 
of her first album, is swiftly climbing Billboard's Top 100. The album starts with the title track, which begins a personal journey in search of self­knowledge. The choices pre­sented at the "Crossroads" are those of materialism. spiritual­ity, and love. 
Chap]Ilan illustrates the con­sequences of each of the choices throughout the album. "Material World," "Subcity," and "Freedom Now," a song dedicated to Nelson Mandela, are all political songs which demonstrate the dangers of materialism. Chapman's love songs are not typically ideal. Instead, they demonstrate the reality and difficulty of rela­tionships, emphasizing lost love. They show the unreliabil­ity of complete dependence on another for defining oneself. 
Finally, at the conclusion of the album, Chapman reveals the ultimate choice through her song "All that You Have Is Your Soul." She expresses that one's identity cannot be found through immersion in love or in material wealth and that one can only depend on oneself for fulfillment. 
As one listens to the end of 
the album, one can hear the 
haunting sound of Chapman's 
voice prophesying what, if her 
words are heeded, might make 
the ideal world for us all: 
"Hunger only for a world of 
justice; hunger only for a world 
of truth, 'cause all that you 
have is your soul." 
C_ ---c·----~-C------­
Friday, January 26, 1990 
page 12 The Observer
-
"Dialogue": something good for Notre Dame? 
Q ~-~~~ 
.... ......_..___""'..,_____..._____ 
once and future king. 

These Johnny-come-latelies to Camelot get a kick out of swearing to uphold the chivalric code of the Round Table, though not necessarily because their hearts are pure. Some of them may be cynics in their own right, in the mood for bashing the sacred cows of the counter-culture. To all appearances, they seem ready to ride ofl' in all directions on a children's crusade, like chickens dying for a lost cause. However, the old saying is, when you see the chickens come home to roost, don't start counting the eggs to be hatched until after they're laid. 
Are the hard-core Catholic alums enlisting replacements, whom they have raised from scratch, to take over for the battle-scarred veterans who've been fighting to keep Notre Dame from losing its Catholic soul? Is that why the money is coming in to support "Dialogue?" I'd be happy to throw a buck in the war chest if I could be sure that the undergraduates, trying to make "Dialogue" an audible voice, wouldn't forget the revealed part of the tradition that tells them that God is love. 
"Odium theologicum" is an ugly, intolerant animal, and the further proliferation of this beast at Notre Dame will not help the Church unity very much. In case you don't know what it is, "odium theologicum" 
refers to the hateful mask. 
which goes considerably more 
than skin deep, worn by Christians over-zealous in 

defending their creed. 

How much room should 
we make in the Church for 
zealots who believe that 

rampant intolerance is a duty 
that they owe to God? The push-and-shove that goes on in front of abortion clinics is "odium theologicum" in action. I'm unflaggingly opposed to abortion. but doesn't Hight-to­Life, with its resew~ operations, know that they could win every street skirmish, yet lose the abortion battle, because the insensitivity of its zealots frightens people? 
I rarely set foot in the Center for Social Concerns because I'm a smoker. and smokers are the only minority group with non-criminal tendendes that the esc discriminates against. But if the Center didn't exist in this heartless decade of a hard-lurk century, Notre Dame would have to invent something at least half as good to tak1~ its place. 
"Dialogue" says that No1n~ Dame has taken allegedly unlaundered money from an allegedly tainted souree. If "Dialogue" is going to engag1~ in investigative reporting, the editors should keep in mind what the conservative Bill Buckley wrote to Father Hesburgh when the "Scholastic" reported that Buckley was gay. lie said something like this when he asked for a retraction: ''I'm too old to quarrel with a college magazine, but I will be interested to see if the students at Notre Dame have a sense of fairness and justice that one has any right to expect from a school less vigilant about honor." 
Dear students committed to "Dialogue": I have no wish to rain on your parade. Try not to reek of "odium theologicum." that's all. You have wonderful friends: Mcinerny, Novak, Hice. and Carberry. Let them keep you 
hmwst, or, if it beeomes 
neenssary, you knep them 
honest. whichevPr comes first. 
You arn breaking new ground as young Christians. If you're doing it just to.bneome a party to the bick1~ring, you may haw~ a good time with the name-ealling, but you'll be contributing to tlw scandal of a divided Church. But if you nxamirw your gifted selvns and find a sineere lov1~ of tlw truth in your hearts and minds, you could bring a bmath of fn~sh air to a timd Chureh. 
"Graee is nverywhPrP," espedally at Notre Darm~. whnre 1werything turns to graee. If "Dialogue" is an idPa whosn time has conw, this trust in the triumph of graee could lead you to insights for all seasons. Will thn Old Guard require lab reports, do you think, on how many angels ean dance on a computer before they're willing to acc1~pt the fact that, in spite of all temptations to be otherwise, the Catholic faith is alive and well at Notre Dame? 
As the self-appointed laureate of the Lonely God, I go about the world looking for dragons to slay. Sometimes, instead of dragons, I stir up hornets' nests that have never done me much harm, either they perceive to be their lost inheritance. 
If the conservatives in charge of putting out "Dialogue" made up their minds to be simply magnificent 

was a joke or because, as a gadfly. I heal 11asily. Yet I'd have to be a bigger fool than Mother Nature intends me to be if I didn't walk from an army of attacking hornets in full array as a wiser, though not necessarily sadder, man. 
I have something to say to the students who are putting out the new campus publication, "Dialogue," and I'm nervous about stepping on some conservative toes. I don't dislike conservatives. Half the time, I'm a conservative myself and only half-ashamed of it. 
If there am young Catholics at Notre Dame who want to stand up and be eounted as conservatives with a strong allegiance to their birthright, I applaud them as God's gift to the Church, as long as they don't turn holier­than-thou on us. A number of the conservatives whom I know have been unhappy with the Church ever since Vatican II, and as membnrs of an older generation, they are a dying breed. I hope that the upcoming conservatives who replace them will not be so bitter from grieving over what they could help save the Church from another quarter century of coming apart at the seams. But if their mission turns into a urinating contest with recruits of the liberal persuasion, they're doomed to bn forgotten like a lost generation. 
Your old men shall dream dreams, says the Bible, and your young men shall see visions. Praying together for the Church to be healthily in touch with its roots. the dreamer and the visionary can be of the same mind. That's the kind of togetherness that inspires a young Catholic to describe his religion as "the faith of our fathers." 
What I chiefly fear is the old man who has an impossible dream of bringing the old Church back. He can never, by his tears, turn back the clock to his paradise lost, so he eats his heart out in anger that lasts for years. Finally, in his frustration, he offers his remembrances of things past to the young men in search of a vision, as their Camelot, now in eclipse, until the return of the 


Friday, January 26, 1990 
SPORTS BRIEFS Racquetball Club members wanting a t-shirt should pick one up by Friday night. Call x2334 or x2274 for more in­formation. 
Men's volleyball team will host Wilfred Laurier at 7:30 
p.m. Saturday and Michigan State at 2 p.m. Sunday. Games will be played in the Joyce ACC pit and admission is free. 
Irish Insanity will hold a pre-game "psyching up" meeting at noon Saturday in 313 St. Edward's Hall. 
A Shorin-Ryu Karate demonstration will be held Sunday at Gym 1 in the Joyce ACC. All students and faculty are welcome to watch the demonstration. Classes begin Monday and will bE) held Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:30 to 6 p.m. in 219 Hockne. Anyone n9t able to attend the demonstration may attend dasses. 
Basketball referees are needed for intramural games at Saint Mary's on Tuesdays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 
p.m. Starting pay is $5 per game. Call 284-5549 for more information. 
Irish Outdoors will meet at 7 p.m. Tuesday in Theodore's to discuss the upcoming ski trips. Call 271-9901 for more information. 
TaeKwonDo Club will practice at 8:30 p.m. Tuesday in the Joyce ACC fencing room. Practice will also be at 8:30 
p.m. Thursdays. Call x1878 for more information. 
Bookstore Basketball commissioner applications should be picked up at SUB office in Lafortune until Wednesday. They arc due at 4 p.m. Wednesday. Call 234-9716 for more information. 
The Observer page 13 
lllini brace for NCAA investigation 
(AP) -The University of Illinois is bracing for an NCAA inquiry into alleged basketball recruiting violations, and school officials said Thursday they are assessing the potential damage. 
Athletic Director John Mackovic said the university was expecting a letter of offi­cial inquiry from the NCAA as a result of the preliminary inves­tigation into the school's re­cruitment of freshman center Deon Thomas. 
"We believe the NCAA has 
sufficient information to war­
rant an official inquiry and we 
expect to receive one," 
Mackovic said in a release 
Wednesday. "We have had con­
versations with them, and we 
have every belief from them 
that something will be forth­
coming." 
Rich Hilliard, the NCAA's di­
rector of enforcement, said 
Thursday from his Mission, 
Kan., office that there would be 
no comment on a possible in­
vestigation. 
But a report in Thursday's 
Chicago Tribune indicated the 
NCAA would send a letter to the university next week detailing the alleged violations. 

Possible sanctions range from a simple letter of repri­mand, either private or public, to the "death penalty," which would shut down the basketball program for two years. 
The death penalty can be im­posed under the repeat offender rule for schools with more than one probation in a five-year period. Illinois already is on probation because of NCAA findings against its football program. 
Mackovic, the Illini's football coach, was on a recruiting trip on Thursday and was unavail­able for comment. But spokesman Mike Pearson said there was a feeling of disap­pointment that the investiga­tion has not been completely cleared up. 
The university already has signed four new basketball re­cruits, but holdouts might shy away from signing since the team could face probation or penalties, Pearson said. 
"We've got a November sign­
ing deadline for the coming 
season and there are still 
others we are attempting to get," he said. "Right now, we just don't know how they're going to feel about signing with 
us." 

Among those targeted for recruiting by Illinois is East St. Louis star Cuonzo Martin. The situation also casts a cloud on recruiting of high school ju­niors, including Chicago's 6­foot-9 Juwan Howard. 
Thomas, who Mackovic said would not play this season, has been inactive because of allega­tions made by University of Iowa officials, who also re­cruited him when he played at Simeon High School in Chicago. 
Collins, who has been re­stricted from recruiting on the road since the NCAA investiga­tion began in July, will continue to be barred from the activity until the matter is resolved, 
-

Mackovic said. 
Although Thomas has been the focus of the preliminary in­vestigation, the NCAA report­edly is investigating alleged ir­regularities in the unsuccessful recruiting of Notre Dame star LaPhonso Ellis. 
Classifieds 
( NOTICES I I WANTED \(l-.._FO_R_RE_NT___. 
Word Processing Can return on disk Pick up and delivery 271·9114 
BE YOUR OWN BOSS! Distributorships. Dealerships. Money making opportunities. Franchises. & Mail order. Detail. send $2.00 to: National Marketing Company, Box 3006, Boston, MA. 02130 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
CASH FOR CARS. TRUCKS regardless of condition. 277-9954. 
USED TEXTBOOKS 
AT A DISCOUNT! Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of N.D. ave. and Howard 
I WILL TYPE ANY PAPERS AT $3 A PAGE. CALL TANYA AT 239­6299. 
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Copies. Cards. Laser Quality For Papers, Reports. Resumes, Etc. 277-MAIL 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
GLASSES LOST--BLACK CASE 
PLEASE CALL STEVE x1581 
...Lost•••.............To whoever picked up my overcoat at the party on the 4th floor of Fisher Sat. night. you have my ID, wallet. and keys. I would like to eat this week and would really appreciate it if you would return my coat. Thanks. And by the way. I have a blue Air Force overcoat to trade with you. Mark x2937. 
Found: blue, Air Force overcoat. 
Call Mark@ x2937. 
LOST: Gold and diamond ring 
in LaLortune basement rest­
room. Of great sentimental 
value. If found. please call 
Theresa @ X4856. Possible 
reward. 
LOST: Gold chain and cross at 
the ACC on Tues. night -Of 
great sentimental value. If 
found please call X1002. 
LOST -Maryland License Plate­"IRISH91". Reward. X1745. 
LOST ---A Copper and Blue 
Swatch WATCH---Sunday Night 
outside LaFortune. If Found-­
please call x3549. 
LOST: Navy blue scai1 with 
blue stripes between book­
store and Flanner on 1/22. 
Was X-mas gift from very ATIENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKSI $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. Bk6262 
ATIENTION: EASY WORK EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble products at home. Details (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. W-6262 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY TYPING AT HOME! 32,000/yr income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. T -6262 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373 
ROOMMATE WANTED 
Turtle Creek Apts 
Furnished, Close to ND 
272-7449 

GRAPHIC LAYOUT DESIGNER 
FOR NATIONAL MONTHLY 
PUBLICATION. 

Keylining.design.layout & 
darkroom knowledge preferred. 
flex hrs. 
(219)277-0033 days 

Hard Working Book People Seek Energetic Assistants 10+ hrs/wk. flxbl sched Call 288-1002. M-F 3-5 pm 
DRUMMER NEEDED! Begining band playing a wide range of music from U2, Stones to New Kids (Just Joking). Please call 2275 and ask for Mike or Dave. 
FOR SALE 
VCR for Sale: $90 or best offer. Curtis Mathes model with wireless infrared remote (VHS). Good Condition. If interested, call or leave message for Rich at 239­7471 (The Observer) 
1986 BUICK SKYLARK, 4-DOOR, AM-FM STEREO . AIR, 44,000 MILES. POWER STEERING & POWER BRAKES. 272-5651. MAKE OFFER. 
Plane ticket to 
Florida -roundtrip 
will talk$ ph#1075 

TICKETS 
3 Billy Joel Tickets!! Feb. 19th Market Square Arena. Best Offer Gets Tix. Call Michelle at 284-5450. 
4 MIAMI GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 
DESPERATELY need 10 Mizzou­ND Basketball tickets. Will pay lots o' cash.$$$$$$Call Colleen at 283­4055ASAP House for 1990-91 school year Furnished, secure home, 5 bedrooms. WID Close to ND Coimpetitive rent. 264-6010 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 
NORTHWEST -3-bdrm, gas heat, CIA, Refrigerator, washer/dryer, fenced yard, patio. $375/mo. plus utilities. Deposit required. 232­1206. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
H's been a blast the last 2 years-let's make It a third II SPRING BREAK Cancun, Rio, Bahamas, and Bermuda Call Doua 283-1818 
PERSONALS 
Go Broncos!!! Beat the Niners!! 
From Grace 2c! 
SPRINGBREAK SAILING BAHAMAS 45ft Captained Yachts Groups of Eight Seven Days Barefoot in the Bahamas $455.00 each All Accommodation & Meals SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE 1-800-999-7245 Anytime 
Looking for a fraternity, sorority of student organization that would like to make $500-$1 000 for a one week on-campus marketing project. Must be organized and hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at (800) 592-2121. 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512 
Parrot Heads Forever !!! 
If you are taking these classes I can sell you the books cheaply: HIST "Women's Place in America" Prof. Hoy, COTH lntro to Advertising Prof. Thurin. Call x3442. 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
$5.00 HAIRCUTS 
ND STUDENTS WELCOME 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST. S.B. 
233-4767 
The Observer accepts classifieds every busmess day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, mcluding spaces. 
THINK FAST 
THINK FAST 
THINK FAST THINK FAST THINK FAST 
World Hunger Coalition Wednesday Lunch Fast SIGN-UPS Jan.24,25,26 in Dining Halls 
Or call X4229 or X2631 and leave a message to participate 
SUMMER JOBS :x>UNSELORS-Boys Camp, W. Mass. I Girls Camp, Maine Top Salary, Rm/8d/Laundry, Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activities: Archery. Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Chet!rleading, Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf, ~u~ar. Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback, Karate, Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scuba, Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. Women call or write: Camp Vega, P.O. Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. 
WINTERFEST 
IS 
COMING!!!!! 
WINTER FEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST WINTERFEST 
FREE FREE FREE FREE FREE JUDOJUDOJUDOJUDOJUDO SUN 4-6 CLASS WED 8-9 
room 219 Rockne call 4053 for more info 
NO CHICKENS!!! 
KRISTEN MOLE... We hear you're in bed with a_bug ... THAT'S SICK! Hope you're 
better soon! WE MISS YOU! 
TONITEI!! Alive and Uncensored 
CORVALLIS CALLING 
Back form their festival on the Isle of Lucy!! at MCCORMICKS 10-2 
The Copy Shop is open late and on weekends. Lower Level LaFortune 
SMOKE TAXI 
Live! 
Thursday, Jan. 25 atCiub23 
and 
Saturday, Jan. 27 at McCormick's 
KEYBOARDIST wanted to join established high-energy progressive rock/dance band. Good equipment and attitude a must, backing vocals a plus. All interested cor1tact: Dennis #3281... Brian #1804 
Happy 17th 27th J.D. I love you and I'll miss you a lot this weekend. Hugs and kisses, K.T. & M 
Captain: ATIENTION!!!! Molly McButter has been TERMINATED! Look at ME!! Now, just say OOOOHHHHH! Have fun with the crazies this weekend. Luv Ya-Skideddi 
NOISES Off: " I loved it. It was much better than CATS. I'm going to see it again and again." -a man off the street 
Happy Birthday Toby you're better than beer tho you don't come in a can. 
Attention! Attention! I need two tickets to the Missouri basketball game. Please call Terri at 284-4254. 
Hey God, It's good to have you back. So much has changed since you've been gone. Doorknob has been abolished, Whitey takes showers every day, and Nessel is no longer your 7th roomate. You know what you need? A good healthy stool session. 
Chet 
hiag 
female student needed to share Campus View apt. for remainder of semester call 2774322 
Sesquicentennial Year Celebration 
Application for Student Executive Committee 
Due Friday, January 26, 4:00 
Membership: Junior -Co-chair Soph. -Co-chair. plus 3 Junior Reps. 3 Soph. Reps. 3 Frosh Reps. 
Pick up your application today and complete it by Friday! 



--•. 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
DAYTONA BEACH ,,...1129• 
7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADilE ISLAND ,...1129• 
5 01? 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT """'SfQf. 
2, 5 01? 7 NIGHTS 
FOilT LAUDEilDAU ,,... SfJ2• 
7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND """'lf27• 
7 NIGHTS 
COilPUS CHiliSn I MUSTANG ISlAND """'199 • 
5 01? 7 NIGHTS CALL TOLL FI?EE TO!l4Y 
1·800·321·5911 
VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give that special guy the best Valentine of all -yourself -in a glamour portrait by a nationally published model photographer. Details and free brochure. Joe Ringer. 287-0613. 
You'll always be #1 with us. Happy 
Birthday, Angie. 
Love. 
Mom, Dad, Gina, 
Marco&John 

Auditions for actresses for Cavanaugh's Up the Down Staircase will be held 1/29 and1/30 from 7-9 pm in 127 Nieuwland. 
Drummer needed for classic/hard rock band (singer is cousin of David Coverdale) Call Vu at x1 809 orx3064 
The Saint Mary's Observer office-309 Haggar-will be open to take classifieds beginning Mon. Jan 29: Mon-Fri: 12:30-3:00 
Had a party lately? Spilled "refreshments" on your carpet? Call 
SPARKLING 

CLEANERS to have your carpets cleaned, call Mark or Cesar at 283-1584! 
DJ Jazzy Zaf, 
Who shaved the "A" on the back of your head? 
Taz. Fast, Snuffle, Hollywood and Giggles! 
Skinny, Good luck going for 300! 
From Slimfast man I 


page 14 The Observer Friday, January 26, 1990 
"We're going to have to try to slow them down and control the 
Hull's 45th goal leads Blues to 3-2 victory DePaul 
game." 
(AP)-Brett Hull scored his league-leading 45th goal for the game-winner as the St. Louis Blues came from two goals down to defeat the Hartford Whalers 3-2 Thursday night. 
Hull, who has three goals and two assists in two games since the All-Star break, broke a tie at 1:35 of the third period when he took a pass in the slot from Peter Zezel, who rebounded his own missed shot, and put a wrist shot past Peter Sidorkiewicz. 
The Blues got the game's last 
Monty 
continued from page 20 
and I was getting ripped up in basketball. I call1~d my mom and told lwr I wanted to trans­fer. 
"She told me that I thought I was the only one going through this. She told me I was going to stick with it and it would pay 
ofT." 
Part ol' that adjustment was made easier with the help of his Irish tPammatns. The older players took Williams, the lone l'wshrnan, undf~r their guidance. Tlwy wanted to make sure hP knew what was happening, both on and ol'l' the court. 
"In a sense I'm the baby on the team," Williams said. "Everybody tells nw what to do and looks after me a lot. Dairnon Sweet and Elmer Bennett wprc like two brothers the first two weeks ol' school." 
Said Sweet. "lie has picked up 1werything pretty good. I re­nwmber the first timn I saw him. I was walking across South Quad and I had never seen him. lin said. '!ley SwePt, haircut. I need a haircut.· lin didn't know rn1~. but he knPw how close this team was going to be. lin was a fn~shman and he knew we were going to take earn ol' him." 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
Lance will just play his position soundly and be able to save his heroics for another game. lie been very steady in the nets all year for us. There have been some games where he was overworkPd this year, but I think we've put that bnhind us." The Notre Damn attack will 
be spearheaded by sophomore 
Dave Bankoske (19G, 17A) and 
senior Tim Kuehl (11 G, 20A). 
Centers Curtis .Janicke and Pat 
Arendt have also quietly moved 
up the S(~oring column of late. 
The largest motivating factor 
for the Irish. however. may be 
the fact that they will play at 
horne this weekend for the first 
time after eight consecutive 
road contests. 
"At home you're familiar with the surroundings and there are pnopln cheering for you when you score," says Schafer. "There arc an untold number of reasons why you like to play at home. 
"We've got a lot in common with this Army team. We've had a much-deserved WCflkend off and a gn~at week of practice, but we're going to have to play well to win." 

NOTES: The Irish are 9-0 this season when leading after one period and 12-0 when leading after two periods...Schafer picked up his 50th win as Notre Dame's coach on .January 6 against Arizona ... The Irish are 7-1 when they score the first goal of the game 
continued from page 20 Leading Notn~ Dame's attack 
will be the junior trio of Hobin­breaking this streak they can son, Krissi Davis and Sara gain some national recognition. Liebscher. Hobinson leads the 
DePaul consistently receives Irish with an average of 14.4 votes in the collegiate polls. ppg and last week earm~d MCC Notre Dame must be con­Player-of -the -Week honors. 
scious of all aspects of the Blue Davis and Liebscher both had Demons' well-balanced attack. excellent games earlil~r in the DePaul's experienced squad will week against Xavier and will be 
look for points from junior looked to carry much of the re­forward Beth Hasenmiller who bounding and scoring duties. leads all Demon scorers with 
McGraw echoed Hobinson's an average of 15.8 ppg. An­thoughts about the advantages
other forward, senior Gail Ash, of playing the game at home. contributes 12.8 ppg while "This is a big game for us grabbing a team high 9.8 re­and we really need the support
bound per game. Guard Mela­
of p.eople st~1ing. after t~e 
nce Ehrhardt adds 12.3 ppg. mens game, Mc(,raw sa1d. "They have good inside and "The results ol' the game could outside shooting," said Irish help us with the NCAA tourna­lwad coach Mul'f'nt McGraw. ment." 
How do you reach over 12,000 
people daily? 
Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 
Get ready for Spring Break 
FREE TANNING 
with every Purchase! 
FOR A VERY UMITED TIME! 
(WITH THIS AD) 

FOR DETAILS ... 
stop in to see our salon, or call us at ... 
272·7653

~ ~ 
three goals after trailing 2-0 to the Whalers, the NHL's best road team ( 13-9-2) early in the second period. St. Louis has won two straight after entering the All-Star break with a three­game losing streak. 
Hull. who also had an assist, extended his point-scoring streak to 12 games, during which he has 23 points. Sergio Momesso also had a goal and an assist and Rod Brind'Amour got the other St. Louis goal. 
Blues goaltender Vincent Hicndnau, in his eighth straight start, made 29 saves. His most 
Williams has been a factor during the entire season for the Irish. He had 16 big points in Notre Dame's win over UCLA and followed that with a ca­reer-high 20 points against Valparaiso. lie has cracked the starting lineup and is averaging 8.:~ points per game going into Saturday's game with Miami (Fla.) 
"lie came on faster than we expected. especially at the UCLA game," Phelps said. "When you have a game like that as a freshman you have to keep working at it because teams are going to respect you more." 
OH MY!!! 
Guess who is 21 on the 27th Happy Birthday! Dave Braun 
We love you Mom, Dad, Janet and Nancy 
important stop was on Kevin Dineen during a two-on-none break at 6:07 of the third pe­riod. Blues defenseman .Jeff Brown missed on a diving at­tempt at the puck, leaving Dineen and Dave Tippett alone in the St. Louis zone, but Hiendeau stopped Dineen from point-blank range. 
In other NHL action, the Philadelphia Flyers soared past the Winnipeg .Jets 8-6, the Boston Bruins mauled the Nnw York Islanders 5-2, and Pittsburgh iced Detroit by a 5-3 score. 
Williams also prefers to stay in the shadows of players like .Joe Fredrick and LaPhonso Ellis. In fact, his most peaceful times are those spent away from basketball, maybe back at the barbershop in his home town or with his family. So many of his relatives live in the town that Williams says they should call it "My Family" in­stead of Fredricksburg. 
"Everybody goes in on Saturday and sits around and watches television," Williams said. "Or I'd rather just sit around with my mother and not have to worry about basketball and school." 



Friday, January 26, 1990 
The Observer page 15 


tl:ii•~ "IRRESISTIBLE, AGEM!" 
-Michael Medved. SNEAK PI!I'VIEWS 
ANNIE HALL 

Woody Allen, Diane Keaton TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:30 
Jackson picks 49ers in Super Bowl But Denver receiver insists he is only kidding 
(AP) -Mark Jackson of the Denver Broncos went so far this week as to predict the score of Sunday's Super Bowl. 
"28-6," he said. "Broncos, of course," some­one said. "No," he replied. "28-6, 49ers." 
Jackson, one of the best-na­tured players ever to partici­pate in an NFL title game, was jesting, or at least that's what he said later. 
But he captured the mood that has prevailed as Denver and San Francisco, two seem­ingly habitual entries in the NFL's annual festival of overkill, prepared this week for their meeting at the SuperDome. 
Nearly everyone expects the Super Bowl to be another Stupor Bowl, like most of the previous XXIII. 
The only difference: This one could make history. 
A victory by San Francisco, which enters the game favored by almost two touchdowns, will certify its place as one of the NFL's great teams. Not only would the 49ers become the first team since Pittsburgh in 1980 to win two straight NFL titles, but they would equal the Steelers' 4-0 record, best of the Super Bowl era. 
On the other hand, a loss by Denver would leave the Broncos at 0-4 in Super Bowls, equalling the mark for futility set by the Minnesota Vikings of the 1970s. 
"Hey," Denver linebacker Karl Mecklenburg said in a typ­ically defensive Bronco com­ment, "I grew up in Minnesota. Those teams were pretty good. They weren't a team like the Lions who never got here. At least we're here and have a chance to win. Cleveland's sit­ting home." 

How· did we get to this point? Start with five straight victo­ries by the NFC, four by lop­sided margins. Two were by the 49ers, including last year's 20­16 win over Cincinnati in the only Super Bowl of the '80s de­cided by less than a touchdown. 
Add Denver losses in 1987 and 1988 that accentuated the NFC dominance. 
In 1.987, the Broncos led the New York Giants 10-9 at half­time, then were outgained 173­2 in the third quarter and lost 39-20. 
In 1988, they led Washington 10-0 after a quarter, then sur­rendered a record 35 points in the second quarter as the Redskins went on to win 42-10. 
Third quarter, second quarter ... If the pattern holds, the blowout this year might come in the first quarter. 
"We played a good half against the Giants and a good quarter against Washington," Coach Dan Reeves said this week. "This time we expect to play a good four quarters." 
This game was on the collec­tive minds of the 49ers almost as soon as John Taylor caught a 10-yard pass from Joe Montana with 34 seconds left to give the 49ers the 1988 NFL title. Added to 1981 and 1984 championships, it gave them the right to the title: "Team of the decade." 
"I can remember players talking about it in the locker room," says George Seifert, who became the 49ers' head coach three days later, moving up from defensive coordinator when Bill Walsh stepped down. 
"It was 'We've got to repeat. We want to repeat. We have to concentrate."' 
APPhoiO 

Former Notre Dame quarterback Joe Montana will attempt to lead his San Francisco 49ers to a record-tying fourth Super Bowl win Sunday. 
Attempting to study for the MCAT alone would be nearly impossible. Attempting to study without Stanley H. Kaplan would simply be a bad career move. 
Maybe it's our 50 years of experience. Our small classes. Or the advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the country. 
Whatever it is, if medical school is your future, Stanley Kaplan can help you stan practicing right now. 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYourCliance.s 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
RESERVE YOUR PLACE 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 


.1/ ~ \ ! I SEMINAR ?'ft,~~·t:-s:: I 
page 16 The Observer 

AP Photo 

Kevin McHale (left) and the Boston Celtics lost a 99-98 heartbreaker to the Washington Bullets. Elsewhere m the NBA last night. Phoenix whipped Charlotte 124-97 and Houston edQed the Los Angeles Clippers 102-1 01. 
Friday, January 26, 1990 
Purdue stays atop Big Ten with victory over Buckeyes 
(AP) -Purdue eoach Gene Keady didn't have to look very far to find the reason behind his co-1 3th-ranked Boilermakers' 78-66 victory over Ohio State on Thursday night. 
"You can attribute that to patience in crunch time. espe­dally by our seniors." Keady said as league-leading Purdue remained unbeaten in the Big Ten. "This was a big win for us on the road. This is the tough­est place to play in the Big Ten." 
Purdue twice broke away from ties to take control in the second half. Each time. it was seniors Steve Scheffler, Tony Jones and Ryan Berning who made the big plays. 
"We were on the ropes thrnn or four times," said Scheffler, who scored 16 points. "I think it helped wn had experienced that in the past. Some of our individuals just said, 'No, let's not let this happen.' " 
Still, it was sophomore Woody Austin who scored a ca­reer-high 18 points-15 in the second half -to lead the Boilermakers. 
In other NCAA action. No. 7 Michigan beat Northwestern 88-79. No. 10 Illinois edgPd Wisconsin 66-63, No. 18 LaSalle hamnwrnd Niagara 87­69, and No. 24 Xavic~r motorpd past Detroit, 88-8:3. 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Advertising Representatives 
For information, please contact Molly Killen at 239-6900 or 283-3631 
I APPALACHIA 
I ,,, 

WORKING SIDE BY SIDE March 11-17 
Information Night 
Monday, Jan. 29 
7·BPM 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
~ Aweek long visit to the mountains
==
5 
of Kentucky to work side by
i side with the people 5 of Appalachia.
I 
5 5 · B k
I prmg rea 
1 
I 



CENTRAL 
CA 
March 10-17 

Information Night 
Monda~iP~an. 29 
=_==_i 

soc c NS
CENTER FOR IAI. CON ER i 
s

Twenty-four 1 places open to travel § toWashingtonD.C.andexamine ~ 
U.S. policy in Central America ~ ~ 
I5 WASHINGTON SEMINAR ~ §
i ft-fteft'ft.~ ft-fteft'ft.~ ft~eftt.-1 
I Both seminars open to all students and are one theology credit I ~ Information and applications available at the Center for Social Concerns i luuuuWIII** WW llftliUIIIUIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIWDIUIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
I~ 
~-------~------------------------------------... ...... 
Friday, January 26, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Swimmers prepare for consecutive meets 
By JANICE AHt.,;Ht:.H two teams are striking. They that will be completely different 
Sports Writer 
have parallel schedules, and in character. The men's teams 
Facing their biggest challenge have seen their teams improve are meeting for the 29th con­of the current homestand, the through aggressive, ambitious secutive year in one of the old­
Notre Dame's men's and programs. But the rivalry has est over-the-border dual meets women's swim teams will take become more intense recently, ever. Notre Dame leads the on rival St. Bonaventure spurred on by St. series 27-1. The women's series Saturday. The major stand of Bonaventure's placing ahead of is tied at 4-4, with the last two 
the season closes against Notre Dame in the Eastern 
contests ending in very close 

Western Ontario the following Collegiate Championships last 
scores. artPrnoon. year. The friendly relations be­The men's meets will begin at 'This meet is like the USC and tween the teams lead. in 
2 p.m. on Saturday and 1 p.m. Miami football games rolled Welsh's estimation, to "a on Sunday. The women will dive into one to us," said captain friendly, classy and competitive in at 11 a.m. Saturday and 1 Tom Penn. "It has the tradition meet." 
p.m. Sunday. of USC and the intensity of Athletic integrity is main­ThP Irish face the Bonnies for Miami." tained, but there is a strong the 24th time, with thP. series Mike Wolz, a 1975 Notre sense of international friend­rncord at 17-6 in Notre Dame's Dame graduate who swam for ship, with the captains ex­favor. The narly history of the Dennis Stark for four years, is changing gifts. A clear sign of contnsts had the Irish winning head referee of Saturday's the amicable rivalry concerns regularly, but St. Bonaventure meet. As a former participant the diving competitions. The 
has taken the last five of six in the St. Bonaventure contests, Canadian system separates meets. he notes, "It is a pride meet. If swimming and diving into two "It is a very competitive, in­you swim your best, the rest sports. Respecting this system, tense rivalry," Irish coach Tim will take care of itself, but it there will be no diving at all on 
W1~lsh said. "In a lot of re­requires individual and team Sunday. If, however, an 
AP Photo 

spects, it is collegiate swimming commitment to excellence." American college did not have a 
Dan Reeves will try to coach the Denver Broncos to their first-ever 
at its best." Next on the schedule is a diving program, Notre Dame 
Super Bowl championship on Sunday in the Superdome. See page 
The similarities between the meet against Western Ontario would dive and take the points. 
15 for further details. 


Happy Birthdqy to ME 
Love, Kara 
Manufacturers Bank will be on campus to present career opportunities in Commercial Lending and Financial Analysis 
Thursday February 1, 1990 7:00pm to 9:00pm Morris Inn Notre Dame Room 
Please see the Placement Office for further details 

against the Shockers. three weeks on the road. We
'Canes 

Phelps had high praise for the can't change what happened in performance of Joe Fredrick. August with Phonz. We can't
continued from page 20 

who scored 11 points and was change what happened the first nal season. Foster. who has di­one of six Irish players in dou­six games without Phonz. We've rected the Miami program since ble figures Wednesday. got seven home games left, and its reinstatement in the 1985-"I think Joe Fredrick played the student body can win those 86 season, has announced his as well as he's played all year," games for us. They can help us intentions to leave his position said Phelps. "He really worked regain our confidence." after this year. hard on defense." IRISH ITEMS: Notre Dame is 
Miami has a rebound margin Fredrick started Wednesday's 8-0 when scoring 80 or more of minus-6.8 per game, which game along with guard Tim points this season... The Irish could hurt against a Notre Singleton, forwards LaPhonso have had plenty of success Dame team noted for rebound­Ellis and Monty Williams and against the Hurricanes ever ing excellence. Despite getting center Keith Robinson. since Miami revived its pro­dominated on the boards last Ellis, since missing the first gram. Notre Dame thrashed weekend against LSU, the Irish six games because of academic Miami 126-73 in 1986 and 65­are outrebounding teams at a ineligibility, has averaged 17.4 49 the following season... The clip of 8.9 per game. points and 12.8 rebounds per Irish have outrebounded all 
Scott Paddock provided the contest, leading the team in their opponents except for Irish front line with some un­both categories. Louisville and LSU... Padd.ock's expected assistance against Phelps is looking for this 13 points and 12 rebounds Wichita State. After scoring no homestand, which concludes Wednesday matched his career points with a grand total of one next Tuesday in a skirmish with highs in both categories... rebound in Notre Dame's last Dayton, to give the Irish with Miami is drawing less than six games, the 6-foot-9-inch some needed momentum. 2,400 fans per home game and forward from Plantation, Fla., "It's good to be home," has had fewer than 2,000 spec­posted 13 points and 12 boards Phelps said. "It's tough to play tators at five of its eight con­
--.......... 
-----tests at the Miami Arena. The Hurricanes drew only 3,460 fans when it played Kansas, then the nation's top-ranked team, at the Miami Arena three 


weeks ago. 
JUNIORS 
SEATING FOR THE JPW DINNER AND BRUNCH WILL BE HELD AT THE CCE FROM 2-1 0 PM, MON. JAN 29TH AND TUES. JAN 30TH. 
THREE FAMILIES WILL BE ALLOWED PER TABLE, WITH A MAXIMUM OF I 
4 
I

THREE TABLES PER GROUP­EACH JUNIOR IS ALLOWED TO 
I PRESENT A MAXIMUM OF 9 I.D.s. 
QUESTIONS? CALL 239-6028 BETWEEN 7-9PM MON-THURS.
t 
I 

10 pm TOHITE at 
ST. PAUL & thcz MARTYRS 
with special gaest 5:00 SHADOW
s 
fi 
T 0 

of D)s 
R 

)ohnny B.
D 


and Mike Jennings
A 

y FREE yo-yos to the first 100 PEOPLE through the door each night 
~--~----------~~----------------------------~-------------------------~­
Friday, January 26, 1990
page 18 The Observer 
Boyd shoots for 1OOth career win 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Sports Writer 
When Pat Boyd grneted the Soviet wrestlers in the USSR. they wanted to do some trad­ing. 

Anything that Pat had--sports shoes, chewing gum, t-shirts, jeans--would have been warmly received by his new interna­tional counterparts. and prob­ably swapped for something that he might have deemed more valuable. 
But the one thing that the Soviet wrestlers would have wanted most, the thing that Boyd could not give them, was what wrestling had given him-­an American success story. 
Pat Boyd, a fifth-year senior wrestler in his last ynar of eli­gibility. is about to join an elitP group of Irish athllltes who have won more than I00 matches in tlwir wrnstling ca­nwrs at Notre Dame. lie is morn than likPiy to do it this weekend as the wrestling team travPis to ClevPiand to partici­pate in llw National Catholic Tournar111~nt on Saturday. 

For Boyd. from Mt. Pleasant. Mieh., wrestling has been a life­time consistPney since age sevnr1. In tlw 16 ensuing years. lw has trairwd, competed and grown in a way that edifies even the most hardened collc­giat•~ sport obsnrver. 
llis latest accomplishment, so far achieved by only six wrestlers in the program's 34­year history, has not been something he's had as a goal. It's just come with tlw territory. 
''I've nevN thought about get­ting I00 wins. That will come wlwn it will come. My greatest goal has always benn graduat­ing from Notre Dame," said Boyd, a goal he fulfilled last year by graduating with 
honors. "That was morn impor­
tant to me and I was more 
proud of that than any 
wn~stling aceomplishnwnt." 
This nonchalance that Boyd 
displays about his wrestling 
success may be deceptive. The 
truth is that Boyd has learned 
to overcome obstacles on his 
cluttered road to succnss. 
Astounding success came 
early for Boyd. In high school, 
he was a phenomenon: his 
record was 168-1, induding :t 
143-match win streak, tying a 
national prep school record. lie 
entered Notre Dame on a 
scholarship, riding high on 


Pat Boyd 
three consecutive state titles 
and not having lost since he 
was fifteen. 
During his freshman year in 
college, he competed to the tune 
of a 20-16 record. making him 
one of three 20-match winners 
on the Irish squad. After this 
year of "readj ustrnent." he 
compiled a 27-8 n~cord during 
tlw first ten meets of his 
sophomore campaign. only to 
havP a vPry promising season 
cut short by a separated shoul­
der. But things went from bad 
to worse. 
In his junior year, at around 
Thanksgiving, he torn some 
cartilage in his left knee. An 
operation put any hopes of 
corning back for the season to 
an end. 
"It was hard sitting out for 
that year. watching everyone 
else. When I came back. I had 
missed out on the whole sea­
son." 
Fortune had spun its wheel 
on Pat Boyd. and there was 
nothing he could do. But when 
he re-injured his knee in 
December of last season and 
was told he might need recon­
structive surgery. he decided to 
have arthroscopic surgery in­
stead. This required intense re­
habilitation to come back, and 
thanks in part to assistant 
trainer Dwayne Treolo he was 
back on the mat by February. 
"I felt very fresh and ready to 
go," said Boyd. "After getting 
that break I felt V<~ry eager to 
get back on the mat. I felt very 
crisp, very positive, and ready 
to wrestle." 
Wrestle he did, and after fin­ishing with a 25-7 record dur­ing the regular season he went on to finish fifth in the 142­pound division at the NCAA Championships. Along with 'hose honors lw achieved All­Ah. 'rica status. 
"I t .. :.., k that that break when 
I was reh.... l,ilitating had a ma­jor impact to my being success­ful at nationals," continued Boyd. "I wasn't burned out at all, I was really looking for­ward to the remaining part of the year, and nationals worked out for me." 
This remarkable turnaround from a potentially season-end­ing injury to fifth place in the nation did not escape the admi­ration of his coach, Fran McCann. 
"He had his goals, and that helped him along," said McCann. "He's done remark­ably well. and I think that the turning point was last year when he bounced back." 
Currently, Boyd has a 20-3 record, but many more matches to finish. He is ranked third in the nation at 142 pounds. lie has once defeated Joe Reynolds, the top-ranked wrestler in his weight class, and has lost to him twice. 
"I think you have to be ready mentally as well as physically," said Boyd. "In the situation this year I think I have a shot at thn national titln if things work out. if I work hard. and if things go my way. I think I'm going to be right in there." 
It's not only a shot at the na­tional title that Boyd has in front of him. lie has wrestling, a sport that has rewarded him with positivn outcomes for as long as he has persevered with it. Most importantly, it has fos­tered a special relationship with his father, who has been his coach, fan, and friend throughout the years. 
"Almost everything I've learned in the sport has been taught to me by him," said Boyd. ''I've especially learned how to deal with setbacks that I'm going to encounter in later life. in overcoming obstades by 
hard work and dedication." 
Boyd had never been on a plane before he went to Notre Dame, and now he has been to the Soviet Union. 
''I've thought about the Olympics, but I don't think I'll be dedicated enough to go through something like that" said Boyd. ''I'm thinking about coaching, but I'm ready to get on with my life, and that's why I want to make the most out of this year." 
Whatever happens, Boyd will always have what wrestling has given him. things that he never could, nor ever would. put on the trading table in Moscow. 

Track team begins indoor season as MCC foes visit for a weekend showdown 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame track 
team begins its season today 
by hosting the 1990 
Midwestern Collegiate 
Conference meet at the Meyo 
Track. Field events will 
begin at 3 p.m., track pre­
liminaries at 5:30 and track 
finals at 6:15. 

This year's edition of Notre Dame track is ex­pected to be similar to the teams of the past, boasting formidable depth in distance events. 
Said head coach Joe Piane, "I think you will sne a typical Notre Damn team. We'II be strong in the middle and long-distance events, while the hurdles and sprints should be bright spots for us as well." Key returrwns for the Irish are senior hurdler Glen Watson, senior sprinter Yan Searcy, and senior dis­tance man Mike O'Connor. 
Additionally, Notre Damn returns thrnn of the four members of the n~lay team which progressed all the way to the NCAA championship mnet. They aw senior Mike Rogan, junior Mark Lavery, and sophomore Brian Peppard. If the Irish find a powerful fourth man for this relay, opponents will be in for a rough year. 
This season, the Irish will attempt to win their second consecutive M.C.C. champi­onship sincn rejoining the conference last season. But the Irish do not expect a runaway against the likes of conference foes Loyola. Marquette, Butler. and 
Detroit. 

"Loyola has most of thnir best guys returning from the team that took second plaee here last year," said Piane, "Traditionally, they have su­perb middle-distance run­ners. Marquette and Butler are also good across the board." 
Strengths and weaknesses aside. 1~xperienen may corm~ into play at today's M.C.C. meet, as Piane pointPCl out: "This is our first meet. whiiP Loyola and Marquettn have alrPady raend. It should lw intPresting to see how this turns out." 
In otlwr track news. tlw NotrP Dame worrwrr's track team. while it will n~mairr a club sport for tlw I<J<JO sea­son. will begin competing as a varsity team in tlw 1991 season. 
"Eventually, tlw worrwn's team will evolw into a very finn intercollegiatn track team," said Piane, who also coaches the women. "Tiw women's middle-distanc1~ runners can be as dominat­ing as the nwn's. In fact, Notre Dame's men's and wom1m 's teams an~ very similar ultimately." 
Real Cool Joter! 
You're 22! 
Ice, Kate and Pam 


'**************************~ 
ATTENTION ACCOUNTING SENIORS 
lLA~lr C IEIANCCIE lr crD IR IE CG II ~lr IE IR 
NOTRE DAME GRA REVIEW 
BEGINS ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1,1990 
FOR REGISTRATION AND INFORMATION stop by 

~**************************' 
IU ~~~~N~ :;;:~;:;~;;~;;;;~':~~=gr;; 
&!:CLUB 
Student Manager Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available. 
Pick them up in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Application deadline is February 23, 1990. 
Questions? Call: 239-7521. 
Friday, January 26, 1990 
The Observer page 19 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Roll-shaped 52 Star clusters cloud 
55 F.D.R.'s New 1 Kernel's spot 

30 Queen killed by 

4 Cardigan size: an asp 57 Nigerian bigwigs Abbr. 
31 Belgian 

58 Pay attention THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 7 Bridle Surrealist: 
61 Sympathizer with attachment 1860-1949 

theC.S.A 11 Actor Vigoda 33 D.D.E.'s 
66 Like a .predecessor

12 Like the worst of groundless
34 Most astute 
pittances rumor 37 Fill again, as a

15 Soprano Mollo 67 Belong
peashooter 
68 NOW objective 16 Reptiles 

39Boa­
69 Duct droplet 

18"-Help 
41 Puckered fabric Singing," 1944 70 Adherent
43 "There-in 
song 71 Part of A.R.C. 

the bush": 19 Route: Abbr. Yarronton 20 "Ma, He's 46Chit DOWN Making Eyes 47 Bone: Comb. -,"1921 form 1 Machine part song 49 Brief look 2 Japanese sash 22 U.S.N. rank so Helmet's 
3 Actress Barbara 
under captain nosepiece -Geddes 4 Pravda founder 5Most 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
magnificent 6 Comic-strip character 7 Fast-moving 



22 Ovid's 300 36 Readings on 53 First German 
reptile 

23 Biographer compasses president8 Alfonso's queen Winslow 38 Somewhat like 54 Uncommon 
9 Hostel 

24 Chinese an anaconda 56 Hero of a Handel 
10-Turner, 

expounder of 40 Protium and sere nata Confucianism tritium, e.g. 58 Broadway 
25 Diary jottings 41 It's often rolling success 27 Hymn tunes in dough 59 Dutch city 28 Dos Passos 42Mauna-60 Guido's high ~ 
trilogy 44 Kipling classic note 29 Norm: Abbr. 45Bad-, 62 Key letter 32 Killer whale German spa 63 Poet's "always" 
21 French director of finances: 35 Bootmaker's 48 Hawk's claw 64 Exist 
j
1703-8 concern 51 Puff-(viper) 65Pop I 
~ 
I I 
_j
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
I I 



\1 ~I'IHRS 
~CUV£ jU':,T 
?E.RPE.TRAI£D 
f\NO\\\~R. CRIM£. 

rn~T r DONT E.~~ 1-\1>.'/t. FUN OF 001~ 
TilE STVFF l'tl\ G8TING 
su~l'llt.l:> RJR. 


8:00 and 10:15 $2.00 
•· 


present their 1990 spring production of -..­
THE FANTASTICKS 
Actors, Managers, Musicians and Techinal Crew Members are needed for this production. 
Please pick up a short interest form from the Secretary's Desk, 2nd floor LaFortune, and return to SUB Office by 
January 30, 1990 

Sports 
Friday, January 26, 1990
page 20 

Irish cautious of upset vs. 'Canes 
NO loss would jeopardize tournament hopes 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
Digger Phelps couldn't avoid spending part of Thursday re­membering he had reached a personal milestone the previous evening. The evidence was all over his office. 
Phelps, who earned his 400th career victory WPdnesday when the Irish men's basketball team downed Wichita State 88-78, received an unusual congratu­latory gift from a friend in Washington, D.C. llis office was filled with 400 blue-and­

-
gold balloons. 
But after sePing the upsets that have befallen home teams this week. Phelps knows that a weekend loss to Miami on Saturday could make Notre Dame's pre-season DPnvPr dreams noat out of reach. 
Tip-ofT is set for 1:30 p.m. at the Joyce ACC. 
"Let's not look past Saturday," said Phelps. "Miami's next. That's all we're working on. They beat Florida State, and they beat Dayton." 

Women batter Xavier 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 

.. Notre Dam£' basketball fans will gN a double dose of exciting hoops action Saturday afternoon at the Joyce ACC. 1\fwr the Irish men's team battles Miami, the Notre Dame women will rerww their fierce rivalry with DePaul. The Irish continupd tlwir winning ways in the Midwest Collegiate Confewnce with a 92-59 stomping of Xavier. Six players scorPd in double figures for thP Irish, led by Margaret Nowlin, who had 17 points and six rebounds. "The guards got the ball to me inside, and I got some easy lay-ups," Nowlin said. "We played well. and we didn't lose our intensity. A win like this is good for us, especially because thn bench came in and playPd well." The Irish shot 68 pt~rcnnt 
Hockey team to play twin bill against Army 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 

• After a timely two-week lay­off, the Notre Dame hockey team returns to action against Army this Friday and Saturday night at the Joyce ACC at 7:30 p.m. The Irish recently fought over two weeks of exhaustion and injuries on a 4-4 road trip which ended with a fatigue-in­duced 4-1 loss at Kent State on .January 13. The respite. however, has not really given Notre Dame's players time to heal their aches and pains. Senior forward Bruce Guay needs another week to rest his sore shoulder, while freshmen Eric Gregoire and Dan Marvin will miss the rest of the season because of injuries incurred during the road trip. 
Don't expect Notre Dame to survive this weekend without suffering a few bumps and bruises either. The Irish will face a tight-checking, well dis­ciplined Army team this week­(39-of-57) l'rom the floor and 62 percent ( 13-of-21 l l'rom the rrep throw line . 

"It's gn~at to be unde­featt>d in the conference, espneially with DePaul com­ing up," Nowlin said. 
The DePaul gamt' begins immediately after the Notre Dame men's contest with the llurricarws. The Irish women are excited to play the Blue Dmnons at home. 
"We've got a rivalry with those guys,"explained junior guard Karen Hobinson. "This is the first time we've had them at home in a long time. The past few times it has been in tournaments and it's always really close." 
DePaul has defeated Notre Dame in the previous four matchups. Last year's games ended with tllP. Blue Demons prevailing 83-62 and 77-69. The Irish hope that by 
see DePAUL I page 14 
Miami (6-8) has played fairly well its last two games, record­ing the 101-97 overtime win over Florida State and almost knocking off Bill Frieder's Arizona State team before falling 62-58. 
The Irish (9-6) need only look at what happened to a couple of former opponents this wet1k to see what can happnn when a team plays poorly at home. While Notre Oame was defeat­ing Wichita State on Wednesday. Indiana lost 75-57 at Bloomington to Michigan State and LSU lost a 94-92 overtime stunner at home to Georgia. 
"After I se11 LSU and Indiana lose at home the other night, anything can happPn because there's so much parity in the game," said Phelps. "If you don't respect what a team is doing, they can bmLt you. We just have to be sure to play our gamP." 
Miami has made a habit this season of being off its game when playing on the road. The Hurricanes have not done much 
; 
Lance Madson 
end, and must be prepared to fight quite a battle in their first home game since a 7-2 loss to Ferris State on December 9. 
"Army is famous for being that type of (checking) team," says Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer,. "We fully expect them to play a physical game. They haven't managed to score many goals this year, but they don't give up very many either." 
The Cadets, who split a two­game series with the Irish at West Point last season, are 6­10-3 on~ the season and have given up less than four goals per game. .Junior Brooks Chretien (3.38 goals-against average) will most likely start in goal, but senior Brandon Hayes (3.67 GAAJ may also see action before the weekend is out. 
Senior center Hich Sheridan 
9 goals, 12 assists) will lead the Army assault on Irish goalie Lance Madson. Wingers AI Brenner (8G, 8Al and Kevin Darby (6G, 8A) also figure to threaten in the Irish zone. .Junior Scott Schulze and Todd Tamburino will keep the de­fense in step for the Cadets. 
If the Irish are going to beat a stingy, opportunistic Army squad, senior netminder Lance Madson will have to be at the top of his game. Madson has been outstanding in leading the Notre Dame to a 14-8 record on the season. He has been the goaltender of record in every game the Irish have played this season. 
Says Schafer, "Hopefully 
see HOCKEY I page 14 


damage outsidP the state of 
Florida. posting a 1-5 record 
away from the Miami Arena. 
.Joe Wylie has provided Miami 
with most of its scoring punch. 
The 6-foot-9-inch junior centpr 
is averaging 21.5 points and 
9.4 rebounds per game this season. Wylie, who hails from Washington, D.C.. has recorded the team-highs in both scoring and rebounding in nine of Miami's 14 games this season. 
A pair of freshmen make up the rest of the Hurricane front line. The 6-l'oot-6-inch Samarr Logan records R.6 points and 
2.9 rebounds per game, while 6-foot-7-inch Justin Caldwell averages 3.8 points and 2.R boards. 
Sophomore guard Jake Morton ranks second on the team in seori ng with 1:~. 7 points a game, and junior Thomas llockPr avPrages 7.1 points and 5.4 assists. 
Bill Foster is coaching the Hurricanes for the fifth and fi­
see CANES I page 17 

Williams matures into starting role 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
If Monty Williams doesn't play like a freshman, it may bt> because he had to grow up quicker than most people. 
And not just on the basketball court. 
Williams. the frnshman mak­ing a big impact on the Notrn Dame men's basketball tnam, spPnt the first six yPars of his life living in thn projects of Fredricksburg, Va. It was tlwre that he really grew up. 
This wasn't as simple as shooting a 10-foot jumper. This was n~al life and survival ror Williams. but also a part of his life he would not change. 
"It made me tough," he said. "We fought a lot back then and it made me a lot stronger. I wouldn't change it for anything in too world." 
Williams' mother had the foresight to save money during those years and eventually pur­chased a house in a much bntter nPighborhood. It was tlwrP, in ForPst llnights. Mel.. that Williams spPnt tlw rPmaining ynars of his childhood. 

"I could go outsidl' and sit in my front yard without pPoplP talking about mP or wanting to fight," Williams said. "Not many pnopln gPt to say tlwy'vp Sl'l'n both sidPS in (iff'." 
It was also in Maryland that Williams PXCI'lll'd in baskPtball for Potomac lligh School. lin led that wam to tlw Class AAA state lith~ as a sPnior, avnrag­ing 30.5 points and I(, re­bounds pPr ganw. lin scorPd 17 points as a junior and 12 as a sophomorl'. 
Even with thosn numiJPrs early in his high sehool days, hi' was not listPd among tlw top reeruits in tlw nation. It was something Williams overcame, but also something that hoth­en~d him in tlw bPginning. 
lie gainPd the attPntion of Notn~ Dame coach Digger Ph1dps at tlw Henbok Slam and Jam Camp in Los Angnles bP-
Notre Dame Weekend Sports 
Friday: Indoor track hosts MCC Meet, Loftus, 3 p.m. Hockey vs. Army, JACC Rink, 7:30p.m. 
Saturday: Swimming vs. St. Bonaventure, Rolfs, 11 a.m. Men's basketball vs. Miami, JACC, 1:30 p.m. Women's basketball vs. DePaul, JACC, 4 p.m. Hockey vs. Army, JACC, 7:30p.m. 
Sunday: Swimming vs. Western Ontario, Rolfs, 1 p.m. 
Celebrity slam-dunk contest at halftime of the women's basketball game Saturday, featuring celebrity dunkers and judges. Irish football players, including tri-captain Anthony Johnson, are scheduled to compete. 
Celebrity hockey tournament, Sunday, 1 p.m., JACC Arena. 1980 U.S. Olympians Mike Eruzione and Jim Craig scheduled to appear, along with TV celebrities, challenging former Notre Dame hockey players. 
forP his sPnior yPar. In tlw all­star ganw at that ramp. William~ PX piod Pd for "2. 7 points. l'lwlps krww tlwn that hP wantPd Williams playing for t.lw Irish. 
"IJp did somP things I likPd during tlw ramp." l'lwlps said. "I told I'PtP c;iJJPn tforml'r Irish assistant and now !wad roarh at XaviPr). 'This kid's minP. KPPp it quiP!.' Wf' dwrkPd his gradt>s out and WP just WPnt aftPr him." 
Said Williams. "I found out wlwn I got hark to srhool tlu•y wPrP intf'n•stPd. Things just ff'll into plan•. Otlwr schools startPd rl't'ruiting mP, but it was too lat... " 
At limPs, tlw transition from high srhool lo rollPgP was too murh for Williams to handiP. liP struggh•d in tlw rla.ssroom and on tlw l'ourt. 
"I wantPd to transfpr tlw first two months of school," lw said. "I failPd my first thrt>P tPsts 
see MONTY I page 14 



