
VOL. XXIII NO. 25 FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 28, 1990 
Shirt to raise money for victim 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey Freshman Anna Robert: finds a place to sit, relax and study by the fountain next to the Fieldhouse Mall. 
Gobbi asks audience to follow Mary 
By KATIE MOORE 
News Writer 
Father Stefano Gobbi, founder and promoter of The Marian Movement of Priests, urged all present to follow the Blessed Mother at a mass Thursday evening at Stepan Center. 
Gobbi told the audience of approximately 900 that he had come to Notre Dame "to bring you Her (Mary) message." Gobbi also told the audience they should "become the Apostles of Mary." 
"The times of Mary are here," 

said Gobbi, "and the times of Inspired to find the Marian Her adversary are about to. Movement of Priests while on a end." pilgrimage to Fatima, Gobbi is Speaking in Italian, Gobbi also the author of a series of 
gave his homily with the assis­reflections fc5r priests which tance of an interpreter. "We are published in all major lan­
comprehend each other over guages.and above any language or na­tionality differences," Gobbi said. 
In addition to celebrating 
mass, Gobbi also conducted a 

Gobbi founded the Marian Cenacle of prayer for priestspriests in 1972, a group char­Thursday afternoon in the acterized by a devotion to Our crypt of Sacred Heart Church. Blessed Lady and loyalty to the Holy Father. The Marian Gobbi's first visit to Notre Priests have grown to 300 Dame is being sponsored bybishops, 60,000 priests and Queen of Peace Ministries and over one million lay associates. The Knights of the Immaculata. 
By KELLEY TUTHILL News Editor 
A Miami-Notre Dame tee shirt will be sold on campus in an effort to raise money for hit-and-run victim Zheng-de Wang. 
Wang, a graduate student from Tianjin, China, was struck down by a hit-and-run driver while walking on Notre Dame Avenue on October 20, 1989. 
The Miami game marks the one-year anniversary of Wang's accident. 
Wang had already received his master's degree from Notre Dame and was pursuing a doc­toral degree. He was also hop­ing to obtain a law degree from Notre Dame. 
Uninsured at the time of the accident, Wang was severely injured and comatose for sev­eral months. He injured the stem of his brain and spent 11 months at St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. 
Now he is confined to a wheelchair and undergoing therapy at St. Paul's Retirement Community, said Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for student affairs. 
He has to learn how to do ev­erything all over again, said Lenz. For example, Wang is learning how to communicate with others and eat solid food again. 
Wang is able to recognize friends and move his fingers to communicate, but his recovery is uncertain at this point. He is conscious and his cognition is getting stronger, Lenz said. 
"The hospital has been in­credible," said Lenz. She said the rehabilitation staff at St. Joseph's Hospital did every­thing they could for Wang. 
The fundraiser is very impor­tant because the family may need additional money if they decide to bring Wang to Boston to a rehabilitation center for patients who have suffered brain injuries. 
"This car accident destroyed Zhemz-de's future," said his mother Xueying Wu. "We worked so hard to send him here for (sic) study. We are very proud of him." 
Wu and her husband, Goutong Wang, flew to South Bend last November to take care of their son. "The physical strain is actually nothing com­pared to the sadness in our heart. Seeing a brilliant young kid become handicapped, we often weep at midnight. Our hearts are broken. We Jove him better than anything else in the world, but we cannot cure 
him." 
There is a civil suit pending in Wang's case, said Lenz. A grand jury found the driver in­nocent of criminal charges. She said it is possible the driver did not know he hit someone that night. The case is still in litiga­tion over the medical expenses resulting from the accident. 
The Athletic Department, the Office of Public Relations and Information and the Office of Student Activities have aU agreed to sponsor this campus­wide endeavor, Lenz said. 
see SHIRT I page 7 

Saint Mary's students discuss AIDS programs 
By CORINNE PAVLIS Saint Mary's Editor 
An AIDS awareness group composed mostly of students met with members of Saint Mary's administration yester­day to discuss possible AIDS education programs at Saint Mary's. 
"We felt we had a really posi­tive response today," said se­nior Wendy Gronek, one of the three students in the group. Gronek hopes to set up peer fa­cilitated groups on Saint Mary's campus. "We are not experts," Gronek admitted, "but we are available as re­sources to students on our campus." 
Junior Bridget Dunn, sopho­more Catherine Funston, and Gronek joined Saint Mary's staff nurse Shelly Schultz last spring to attend a sixteen hour AIDS education seminar at Notre Dame. The group then presented their findings to the Saint Mary's Health Services staff. 
The information was pre­sented yesterday to Saint Mary's Director of Residence Life, Campus Ministry, Counseling Services, Dean of Students, Student Activities, the Athletic Department, the Wellness Group and hall direc­tors. 
The idea for the group came from Saint Mary's Health Services Director Gloria Chelminiak who attended a workshop at Indiana University -South Bend last spring. The workshop brought several schools together to discuss the AIDS crisis. 
The seminar "showed a real 
need for peer education," said 
Chelminiak. Chelmtniak com­
missioned Schultz to become 
coordinator for an AIDS 
awareness program at Saint 
Mary's. Three students were 
then recruited to serve with 
Schultz on the panel. 
The state of Indiana has mandated that schools of higher education are obligated to present information concerning AIDS. The awareness panel plans to sponsor lectures and education seminars to continue to fulfill this obligation. 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
• Purdue Weekend 1990 • 
Friday 

3 p.m. Campus tours departing from the statue of Our Lady, Main Gate 4-7 p.m. All-campus charity picnic for students, alumni and friends, Holy Cross Field 
4:30 p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal, from Washington Hall, and steps of Main 
Building to Green Field 4:30-6 p.m. Glee club, open rehearsal, Crowley Hall, Room 115 7 p.m. Pep rally, Joyce ACC, Gate 3 
Saturday 

1 a.m. Band Rehearsal, Cartier Field 
8 a.m.-game time ND & SMC alumni & friends are invited to Alumni Hospitality Center, JACC, Gates 2 &3 
9:15a.m. Porn Porn Squad Performance, JACC North Dome 
9:30 a.m. Alcoholics Anonymous (closed meeting), Center for Social Concerns 10 a.m. Porn Pon Squad & Cheerleading performance, in front of Bookstore 10 a.m. Glee Club concert, JACC North Dome 
10:30 
a.m. Shenanigans performance, JACC North Dome • 

10:30 
a.m. Band concert, Main building steps 


11:20 a.m. Band steps off 
12:10 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Purdue, Stadium After the game NDISMC all-class reunion, JACC North Dome Gates 2 &3 4 p.m. Mass, Crypt 5 p.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Church 

~2 The Observer Friday, September 28, 1990 


~~----~~============~~==~~ 
JClt~--<=>~~r~------------~C·A·M·P·U•Sr-------------~M·A·R·K·E·T·U·P·D·AT•Er-­
INSIDE COLUMN 
Notre Dame, what art thou doing? 
And they call it art... 

A funny thing hap­pened to me the other day as I walked out of Declo. I saw a pile of scrap metal lying on the sidewalk, and ap­palled at the seem­ingly careless disposal Florentine of trash, I asked the Hoelker nearest NO grounds-Assoc. News Editor 
keeper if he knew why this lump of rusting metal was left there. "That's not trash," said the friendly groundskeeper, "that's art." 
"It is?" I confusedly asked. "But why is it left there to rust, and why does it not really look like anything defmable or guessable but a lump of oxidized auto parts?" 
"I don't know," he answered, "but I'm sure someone got paid for it." Stunned, I nodded my thanks and wan­dered back to my dorm. 
The next day, however, I noticed a few more odd-looking things on campus. One was a huge black propeller-thing in front of the Snite, called "Griffin" or "Buzzard" or some such nonsense. 
And there were a mess of weird things in front of the Riley Art Building. Lots of metal, a few tree branches, some card­board. Many disparate and incongruous forms, converging into a single, incoherent, and meaningless mass. All of them looked like they belonged in an auto graveyard or a recycling plant. 
Then I glanced at the cover of my linguis­tics book-yikes! A blob of shapes and colors without form or fashion, and what was the name of it? 
"Workshop." 

Maybe it's irony, or cleverness, or even spite on the part of the artist. But what does it say about us, who so willingly accept 
this trite and trendy wave of nonexpressive garbage that some dare to call art? I'm not an art expert-although I play one on TV­but isn't art supposed to reflect some of the unique aspects of mankind? Some purpose or plan or sign of intelligence, at the least, right? 
A hunk of metal that, once exposed, would resemble nothing more than someone's rubbish pile just doesn't seem to fit the bill. Neither do paintings that are random splashes of color or forms. What's the deal with this stufr? Is it the expression of the artist's view of reality, or their feelings? I hope I never feel like a pile of scrap metal, although after looking at modern art my stomach feels like most modern art paint­ings look. 
If our society were to vanish and be redis­covered a thousand years from now, what would the discoverers think about the "Griffin?" Probably nothing significant ex­cept what most of us think when we see it­"Yuck." 
Perhaps art, like beauty, is in the eye of the beholder. Then again, maybe you need glasses. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)·239-7471 
Thuraday'a Staff 
Production Sporta Nawa 

lisa Eaton 

Soon Brutocao Brad Galko
Cristina Ortiz Frank D. Rivera

Jeanne Blasi 

Accent Bri!Vl Grunert CirculationSyatema 
Fr!Vl M:lyer Bill O'RourlleCesar Capella Robyn Sirnnons Man Novak
Amalia Meier 

Scoreboard VIewpointRolando de Aguiar Julie Shepherd 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction 
nghts are reserved 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 28. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 

® (0 ~ ~ [TI] 0 0 " 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

OF INTEREST 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right-to-Life 
will be sponsoring a peaceful picket demonstration of the Women's Pavilion abortion clinic in South Bend today. Meet at t~e Main Circle between 2-2:15 p.m. We will re­turn bv 4.30 p.m. 
The NO vs. Purdue pep rally will be held tonight at 7:00 p.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Party with the plaid on Saturday, Sept. 28 
before the Purdue game. Students, faculty, staff, 
administration and alumni are invited to the Haggar 
College Center terrace for a pre-game cookout from 9-11 
a.m. 

WORLD
Benazir Bhutto, ousted prime minister of Pakistan, was ordered to stand trial on two more corruption charges in a mounting legal onslaught that could disqual­ify her from next month's election. Judge Wajihuddin Ahmed issued the notice for Bhutto to appear before the tribunal on Sunday to answer charges of misconduct and abuse of power during her 20-month administration. Bhutto's husband, Asif Ali Zardari, is also ordered to ap­pear in court on Sunday charged with failing to cooperate in a police investigation, said the state news agency. Associated Press of Pakistan claimed the 38-year--old Zardari ignored several official requests to appear before the Federal Investigation Agency. 
NATIONAL 
David Souter's nomination to 
the Supreme Court was approved
by the Senate Judiciary Committee 
on Thursday with but one dissent· 
ing vote. The full Senate is ex­
pected to confirm him easily when 
1t votes next Tuesday, the day
after the court begins its session. _.. 
Democrats as well as Republicans 

on the committee said they saw in President Bush's 
nominee a brilliant legal scholar and a man of good 
temperament and integrity. In the 13-1 vote. only
Edward M. Kennedy, 0-Mass., opposed him, saying 
he feared Souter would "solidify a 5-4 anti-civil­
rights, anti-privacy majority." 
Faculty and staff have reported vandalism to their cars in lots 02 and 06, according to Chuck Hurley, during the past few weeks assistant director of Security. Stereo systems and hanging tags have been taken from the vehicles, in most cases. Security believes that it is the same group or two or three people committing the crimes because generally the same method is used during the break-ins. In most cases, a window is broken and then the material is taken, Hurley said. 
Saint Mary's Freshmen elections resulted in a run-off for the President and Vice President tickets. The ticket of Tracy McDonald and Elizabeth Petrovic will race Nedra Dwyer and Jill Dunleavy in the run-off, scheduled for Monday. Voting will be In the dining hall at all meals. All of the women who ran for Freshman Board were elected. 


NYSE Index  
167.52  -.!} 1.68  
S&P Composite 305.06  {7  3.20  

Dow Jones Industrials 
2,427.48 {7 32.17 
Precious Metals Gold {7 $1.90 to $ 405.50/oz. Silver{> 2.7¢ to$ 4.771/oz. 
The Notre Dame cheerleaders will perform in front of the bookstore on Saturday at 10 a.m. before the Purdue game. · 
Habitat for Humanity needs volunteers to help put together a home for a deserving family. Event to take place Saturday, September 29 from 7 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. 
People needed for any or all of these hours. Call Paula Thompson at 237-0788. 
A Saint Mary's faculty recital will be held on Sunday, Sept. 30, at 2:30 p.m. in the Moreau Little Theatr~. Call 284-4632 for more information. 
High school tutors are available to help lower • elementary children with homework. For information call Betsy at 284-4441. 
Pro-Cuban guerrillas claimed responsibility for the kidnapping of a congressman, the highest-level political official seized by rebels in 10 years of guerrilla insur­gency, a Lima newspaper said Thursday. The Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement sent photos to the daily Pagina Libre showing Gerardo Lopez sitting beneath a rebel flag. Lopez, 34, who heads the governing Cambio 90 Movement congressional delegation, was dragged from his home Sunday by three rebels with machine guns.The Tupac Amaru used similar methods in the Sept. 11 kid­napping of a cement company executive, who is still miss­ing, police said. 
William Webster, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, announced Thursday the appointment of Thomas Twetten, a career CIA officer, as deputy direc­tor for operations. The CIA said in a statement that Twetten, 55, on Jan. 1 will succeed Richard Stolz, 64, as chief of operations, the division that oversees espionage and covert activities. Stolz, who served in the agency from 1950 to 1981 and then returned to CIA duty in 1988, is re­tiring. Webster, in a statement, said Stolz "has made an enormous contribution in charting the role of human in­telligence in a rapidly changing world. He has dealt with some extraordinarily challenging issues, serving the agency and the country with great distinction." 
Yesterday's high: 99 Yesterday's low: 32 Nation's high: 103 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) Nation's low: 32 
(Wast Yellowstone, Mont.) Forecast: Mostly cloudy and cooler Friday with a 40 percent chance of showers. Highs in the middle 70s. Cloudy and cooler Friday night and Saturday with a 40 percent chance of showers. Lows Friday night in the lower 50s. Highs Saturday from the middle to upper 60s. 

©1990 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
ALMANAC 
On September 28: 
eln 1918: Subway shuttles open between Times Square and Grand Central Station in New York. 
eln 1926: Dutch scientists find skull of prehistoric man believed to be missing link in Batavia, Java. 
eln 1942: The Tour de France route was replaced by a reduced circuit to avoid crossing demarcation lines. 
eln 1970: Students burn draft cards in memorial at Kent State 
University, Ohio. eln 1976: Mohammad Ali wins de· cision over Ken Norton to retain 
heavyweight title in New York. 


Friday, September 28. 1990 The Observer page 3 

The Observer/Michael Brennan A Honduran man walks across one of four antiquated bridges which provide the only access to the villages of the Urraco Pueblo area near the northern coast of Honduras. Michael Brennan, an 1984 NO gradu­ate, works with the villagers as part of CONCERN/America, an interna­tional development and refugee aid organization. 

Bistorante, 
A touch ofLittle Italy. The place where Mama cooks just for you .. Delicious food prepared in the Southern Italian manner. Featuring Fettuccine Alfredo, Manicotti, and Veal Parmagiana. For festive occasions check out Parisi's Italian Style dinners, includes everything but the gondala. 
NEW SUNDAY HOURS: 4--9 P.M. 
DINNER 4 P.M.-11 P.M. Closed Mon. Open Sun. til 9 



219232-4244 
South Ot Notre o...·Golden 0om1 1412 South Bend Avenue 
FREE 
FOOD MENU: 
ND graduate helps less fortunate in Central America 
By MONICA Y ANT Associate News Editor 
When Michael Brennan left Notre Dame in 1984 with a de­gree in Government and International Studies, he never dreamed he would return as a registered nurse fundraising for the poor in Honduras. 
Brennan has volunteered in Honduras for the past two years for CONCERN/America, an international development and refugee aid organization. The organization needs to raise $60,000 to $100,000 for emer­gency repair and rebuilding of bridges in Urraco Pueblo, on the northern coast of Honduras. 
Brennan works as a teacher in an adult literacy program, while his wife teaches villagers to be health promoters. The du­ties of the 60 health promoters, four per village, is to instruct others in the basics of health care, such as how to prescribe antibiotics, give injections and pre-natal care. 
"In our area, more than one­half of the children are mal­nourished," Brennan said, so increased awareness of health care techniques is of great ur­gency. 
But it is the bridge problem which poses the most immedi­ate threat to the Uracco Pueblo area. The community is acces­sible from the main road only by crossing four bridges, three of which are in disrepair, to the point of collapsing. 
The bridges are impassable by motorized vehicles, he said. 
SALE THRU SEPT. 

I 
OPEN AT 6AM DAILY 

u.s. 311fOI'da ia lloHiaad 
(Acne......_ Tbc HoUday la.a) 2.'11·7~ Just North Of 
Each year, the palm oil coop­
eratives that function in the 

area lose roughly the equivalent 
of $20,000, because they are 
unable to harvest or transport 
their crops due to the dilapi­
dated bridges. Brennan said 
that the Hondurans also receive 
lower prices for their crops due 
to the cooperatives' loss, and 
must also pay higher prices for 
basic consumer goods. 
At least three people have fallen and died from the bridges in the past five years. According to Brennan, a 53­year-old volunteer from California who had been in Honduras only a week recently fell while riding a bike across one of the bridges, breaking her wrist and fracturing her vertebrae. She had to be air­lifted from the village. 
Although Brennan said that Hundupalma, a Honduran­owned palm oil cooperative, is willing to finance half the pro­ject, outside assistance is needed to complete the repairs. 
Brennan stressed that fundraising for projects more visible, such as malnutrition, "goes right to the heart­strings." With bridges, "it's harder, but it's important to see how important they are to their daily life." 
The people of the communi­ties will provide the labor for the project, on a volunteer ba­sis. This is just one facet of the "self-empowerment" that Brennan hopes to instill in the Hondurans. 
"The work we do is formation of the people, to educate them to get out and solve their prob­lems," he said. Especially with the adult literacy program, Brennan said that, "the in­creased change in self-esteem is like giving sight to the blind." 
Brennan has trained 50 vil­lagers to be literacy teachers, and said they recently had "graduation" ceremonies for 150 adults who had learned to read and write. 
Four years at ND afforded Brennan an interest in Latin American affairs and social work, he said. A stint with a Political Action Committee in Washington D.C. left him "empty, with a desire to em­
brace and  live  the  Christian  
ideals"  he  developed  at  the  
University.  

So Brennan headed to El Paso, working at a shelter for Central American refugees coming across the border. It was there, at the Catholic Enunciation House, where Brennan received his introduc­tion to the Spanish language, Latin American people and the desire to help the less fortu­nate. 
He and his new wife went to nursing school and left for Honduras to work for CONCERN/America. The orga­nization utilizes non-salaried volunteers who are profession­als in the fields of public health, nutrition, sanitation, education and community organizing. 
CONCERN/America is a not­for-profit, non-sectarian orga­nization 



'~.' ,,,,
To"'h'~
Give to the United Way. 
• 

FROM MUNCHIES to PRIME RIB, PIZZA, BURGERS•••• carry-outs available NIGHRY SPECIALS: WED. $2.00 take a trip to the baseball mound! 
1516 N. IRONWOOD DRIVE • BETWEEN S.R. 23 AND EDISON ROAD WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE OF CAMPUS 233-7747 

• 

TEAM RECORD 
Notre Dame 

Florida State 
Auburn 
.. 
' 

Brigham Young 
' 
Tennessee
. "! " 
Michigan 
.. 
Virginia 
:•~. 
Miami 
•I·.:· 
Oklahoma 
~~ 
usc 

r--------------------------------------, 
I 

SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE 
$5.99 
Get 1small Original pizzas with the topping of your 
•hoicc for onh··$5.99. \"alid Sundays only. 
I I I I I I I I I

L----------------------•--------------­

2-0 3-0 2-0 4-0 3-0-1 1-1 4-0 1-1 

NEXT OPPONENT Purdue Virginia Tech Tennessee Oregon Auburn Maryland William & Mary Iowa 
3-0 Kansas 2-1 Ohio State 
NO PENALTY FOR CLIPPING! 
r--------------------------------------,
EARLY WEEK SPECIAL 
$4.99 

Get I large Original pizza with your fa1·orite topping for only S4.99. Valid Tuesdays only. 
Expirts 12131190 
~~~ 

Viled at paltiCIPibnQ StOfn onfv ~ valtd With :7 other otters Pncn :n-&.,YJtY Customer ~ Yes tu where-=~ 00~~:'no.';e::-:~ dnwrs cany less 
L-------------------------------------­
•·. 

r--------------------------------------,
You've heard of TWIN PEAKS, well Domino's Pizza® is offering OFF PEAKS. 
If you order before 4 pm and/or after 8 pm, you can get I medium Original Pizza with 2toppings and 2 servings of Coke® for only $7.99. 

Expirts 12131190 
Valid ot p.~rb<IPIINIQ sto<es only Not YliMS W1lll any other olloft Pras1111Y vory eu.tomer pays 5lles tax where appkab6e OtWtry ~rus hrmted 10 ensure sate dnv.ng Our dnvers carry less -$2000 0urd!Mirslrt1101-IO<IIIedltiYtnes
L-------------------------------------­
Call us! Notre Dame 271-0300 1835SouthBend.\le 289-0033 816PonageAR 
Friday, September 28, 1990 
The Observer page·S 
Profs speak on human rights 

By CLAIRE ROBINSON 
News Writer 
Studies of human rights vio­lations need to take into ac­count more than just the fre­quency of violations, according to Michael Stohl, visiting fac­ulty fellow of the Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Researchers should also note the severity of the violations, as well as the range, that is the size and character, of the popu­lation which is suffering from the violations, said Stohl. 
Stohl spoke Thursday along with George Lopez, fellow at the Institute for International Peace Studies and associate professor of government and international studies. The two took turns speaking about the difficulties involved in the col­lection of data regarding gross violations of human rights. 
The speakers proposed the exploration of the three differ­ent aspects of the human rights 
issue: severity, frequency and range. 
According to the speakers, this approach remains untested as of yet, since past studies have only focused upon the fre­quency of human rights viola­tions and have completely over­looked the severity of the viola­tions and the particular group of the population to which the punishment is being adminis­tered. 
Because of the narrow focus of human rights reports, an in­complete portrayal of human rights is being presented, said Stohl. For example, "The [decreasing] quantities of abuse may not indicate levels of improvement," he said. Judge­ments of improvements "should be based on qualitative, not quantitative analysis," Stohl said. Severity and frequency may both vary. 
"The diverse agenda across the human rights groups really leads to diverse kinds of mate­rial being produced to tell us 
about human rights situations," 
said Lopez. 

Lopez outlined the three gen­eral types of human rights groups as scholars, policy makers and activist groups such as Amnesty International. The concerns of each group in­clude the victims, the ranking of human rights, and the data needs of the group, said Lopez. Each group approaches these subjects differently, corre­sponding to its needs "which tends to produce different kinds of information," he said. 
"How do you help people de­cide whether things are getting better or worse?" asked Lopez. "These (varying) sources ... present some concep­tual problems and some data problems in having us really understand how human rights work." 
Stohl and Lopez displayed political cartoons to demon­strate the widespread problems 
see DATA I page 7 

IFBI agent to visit ND, talk on white collar crime 
Exhibition­

By MICHAEL SCHOLL Crime." mates white collar crime hie careers in law enforce­
News Writer 
Clancy has spent a good costs the U.S. economy $40 ment and take questions deal of his career investigat­billion a year. from the audience regarding 

ist caught 

Although many people be­ing white collar crimes such Clancy said he wanted to all facets of crime. lieve violent crime is as embezzlement and corpo­speak to ND students, espe­Clancy's lecture is being America's worst problem, rate fraud. He said the FBI cially to those thinking of sponsored by the Notre 

by security 
white collar crime may be devotes most of its entering the business world, Dame chapter of Beta 
causing more damage to the resources to investigating about the temptations they Gamma Sigma, the national 
nation, according to William white collar cases because may face in the future to honor society for business 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 

Clancy of the FBI. such investigations are commit white collar crime. students. Barrv Keatina. 
News Writer 

Clancy, a Notre Dame usually very complex. "There has been an ero­professor of finance and alumnus, is currently assis­Such investigations, said sion of ethics in the business faculty advisor to the chap­
Notre Dame Security has tant special agent in charge Clancy, need to be under­community," said Clancy, ter, said Clancy is the ftrst of 
given the case concerning re­of the FBI's Chicago office. taken because white collar "and it's up to the future many University graduates cent incidents of indecent expo­He will be on campus Oct. 3, crime causes so much eco­leaders of America to turn it that the society hopes to sure over to the St. Joseph's 
to present a lecture entitled nomic damage. The U.S. around." bring back to ND to speak County prosecutor, according "The FBI and White Collar Chamber of Commerce esti-He will speak about possi-this year. to Chuck Hurley, assistant di­rector of Security. The suspect was apprehended early Tuesday evening when two Saint Mary's students were
Whaddya call it ­

stopped by a man in a car. The man asked the women for di­
5 .. ! 

rections to the admissions
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SNIZ! ~ .; 
building.
lOISOH 


228 W. Edison Mishawaka. IN ~6!>45 
The students, who had heard 
Hours 10 AM · 7 PM M· Sat. 255-3151 
about similar incidents at Notre Dame, called Saint
NATURAL SNACK FOODS 
Mary's security. Saint Mary's ~FRUIT & NUT MIXES ORGANIC 
Security was able to stop the -CHIPS and JUICES PRODUCE 
suspect's vehicle on the pre­tense of expired license plates.

FAST HEALTHY ENTREES 
The suspect was then turned

-BURRITOES -POT PIES NATURAL 
over to ND Security.

-PIZZA -SOUPS COSMETICS 
Thursday, ND Security con­tacted the women who had been 

Love, Your buds from B.P. 

approached by the suspect. These people were shown a
Think Globally, Buy Naturally. 
-•-
photographic line-up. At least one victim identified the suspect as the man whom had inde­cently revealed himself to her, Hurley said. 

If prosecuted, the suspect will most likely be charged with 
public indecency. He could be charged with either a Class A 


THEPOINTE 
-~JM4X&A&V~ 
or Class C misdemeanor, de­pending on how flagrant the

AT SAINT JOSEPII 
[b~~@Wo§ 
indecencies are considered. He 
could be imprisoned for up to
AnliNTION GRADUATE STUDENTS: 
one year and fined up to 
1 bedroom apartments starting at $445­
$5,000.



RIBS & TIPS
2 bedroom apartments starting at $550­
Everything you are looking for in a 
luxury apartment: 

SEAFOOD, SANDWICHES, AND BREAKFAST ENTRES 
Full size washer & dryer Fully equipped party room Wall to wall carpeting and full kitchen 
Floor to ceiling bay windows Outdoor pool and sun deck Heated, covered parking 
Dine in or carry out
Exercise room 
Ceramic tiled baths 
Tennis courts 
Convenient bus transportation to Notre Dame 
Call Leroy or Mitch 
••It's ready when you are!"
287-2684 
9-6 pm Mon -Fri 1.0-5 pm Sat 
838 Portage, South Bend 
Know what
1.1.·5 pm Sun 
289-1118
J~~artm'enb 'l'hat Stand A. p . a .r .t rrom the Rest 
you're drinking 


· -i= n~ay; ·september· 213'.·-1990
The Observer 


Live Fire APPholl:l 
An infantryman with the U.S. Army 82nd Airborne Division prepares to fire a squad automatic weapon (SAW) machine gun under the direction of his sergeant Wednesday during live fire exercises in the 
____________________J
Saudi desert. The SAW can fire up to 750 rounds of 5.56 mm ammunition per minute. 
Puerto Ricans return to homeland 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN News Writer 
Reverse immigration back to Puerto Rico is increasing said Ana Maria Diaz-Stevens at a seminar Thursday. 
"Puerto Ricans that went to New York are now returning to their native land. We have not assimilated into the American Catholic Church," she said as she spoke of her own experi­ences as a Hispanic woman cul­turally adjusting to New York. 
Everyone in attendance, both faculty and students, received a copy of Diaz-Steven's informa­tional essay on the topic. From her essay, she discussed the history of the development of the Catholic faith in Puerto Rico as well as the influence the Hispanic culture and Catholic symbols have had on their reli­gion. 
After her brief comments on the essay, the floor was opened to the audience where people raised cultural questions re­garding the Catholicism of the third oldest diocese in the world. Even though Hispanics have failed to assimilate to the ways of the American bishops, said Diaz-Steven, many Catholic Church leaders in the United States have adopted views of the conservative Puerto Ricans on controversial issues, such as abortion. 
The discussion, "American Catholicism's Encounter with the Religion of the Puerto Rican People," was part of the American Catholic Studies Seminar and was sponsored by the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
1HEMosrExciTING CAREER0PPOR11JNITIES ARECLOSER1HAN\Ou1HINK. 
Before you make that important first as the industry leader means stability career decision, take a look at the big picture. and growth potential 
We're the world's largest energy So, ifyou're seeking a promising company and the third largest chemical future with a Fortune 50 company, look company in the United States. :::!: no further. 
. Our. size gives you . · Check your placement office for diverse opoons, and our status · more details. E)J{ON 
ThE PoNER SOCCEED 
An EquQJ ~nuyE..,._ 


Aquino's killers convicted, 16 in all 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­A Philippine court on Friday convicted 16 people of murder­ing President Corazon Aquino's husband at the Manila airport and acquitted 20 others in the 1983 slaying. 
The assassination of Sen. Benigno Aquino in broad day­light on his arrival home from self-imposed exile in the United States had enraged this nation and set the stage for former President Ferdinand Marcos' ouster in a popular uprising. 
The verdict in the 3 112-year trial was announced on the first anniversary of the death of Marcos, who many Filipinos believe ordered the slaying of the Aquino, considered his chief political rival. 
The anti-graft court sen­tenced the 16 to life imprison­ment and ordered them to pay $300,000 to the late senator's heirs. 
Those convicted included Brig. Gen. Luther Custodio, former chief of the airport se­curity command who is termi­nally ill with cancer. 
Among those acquitted was Rep. Jose Aspiras, former tourism minister, former Air Transport Minister Jose Singson and Col. Arturo Custodio, former commander of Villamor Air Base. 
Aquino was shot to death on Aug. 21, 1983, as he stepped from a China Airlines jet that brought him back to Manila after three years' exile in America, mostly in the Boston area. 
Marcos claimed Aquino was slain by an alleged Communist assassin, Rolando Galman, who was himself shot to death mo­ments after Aquino. Aquino had returned to the Philippines to challenge Marcos for leader­ship of the country. 
The 16 were also convicted of killing Galman. 
Aquino's killing galvanized the fragmented opposition against Marcos and set the stage for the February 1986 "people power revolution" that toppled the Marcos administra­
tion and propelled Mrs. Aquino into the presidency. Marcos died in exile in Hawaii on Sept. 28, 1989. 

MARIGOLD MARKET 



TA\LGAff 
PJCNl~S 

CHEESE~ ~PATES 
r 

AllnlnnfV(' 
~ee ru.t\W 


INTERVIEW DATES: SIGN UP DATES: 
OCTOBER 16, 17, 18 SEPTEMBER 17 AND 18 and OCTOBER 1 AND 2 
-..-­
.. ~....,..-:...-· -.:~~ 

'DEssE'RTS' ~I=:::::::!:::! 
~ 
lET US PREPARE. YOUR TAIL6ATE PICNIC. SO YOU CAN ENJOy THE GAJvl E! 
GRAPE. ~ClEVELAND 272·1922 
~ ~---. 
Friday. September 28, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
Government admits error in weapons tests 
-~­
• 
AP Pho1D 

All lined up and nowhere to go 
Jordanian trucks sit idly outside the port city of Aqaba Thursday where they have been stranded without cargo since the imposition of sanctions against Iraq, Jordan's biggest trading partner. The port, which is usually full of Iraq-bound ships, is practically empty. 

Shirt 
continued from page 1 

The tee shirt is navy blue and comes in both short and long sleeves. A design of the Miami and Notre Dame football hel­mets is on the front pocket of the shirts and a larger design on the back, said Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities. The design was a result of work done by Notre Dame stu­dents. 
The shirts should be ready for sale on campus by Oct. 8 or 
9. Student prices are $6 for short-sleeve shirts and $8 for the long-sleeve version. The shirts will probably be sold in the residents halls and the din­ing halls, Cassidy said. 
On football weekends the shirt will be sold to visitors for $10 and $12. The shirts will be sold in the Bookstore, in LaFortune Student Center and by the Athletic Department. 
Anyone interested in sending Zheng-de cards or letters, should mail them to St. Paul's Retirement Community, Health Care Center Room 215, 3602 Ironwood Drive, South Bend, IN, 46614. 
Tuesday's story about the Student Senate meeUng incor­rectly stated that Zhenpe 
Wang was hit by a drun driver. The graduate 1tuden was the victim of a hlt-ud­on Oct. 20, 1989 on the No Dame campus. 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"An• .lf"ll OK to drh"l'!" "Wimtl; a.fi'll' beerx!" 

"Did you hw•e too much to d1·iuk!" "I'IIIJW1.1i'cl/y.fiue." 
"An• ll"'' iu 1111,11 .vlmpe to (i.ritv•l" "l't•e lll't'el·.fc'/1 be1te1:" 

"/think !ftJII'~v' /~ad a.fi'll' ltK_I maul( "Yrm ktddtu.l can dntfe with my l',lfes clr~~ed." 
"Yrm't'!' had lrx1 nmch to drink, lel111e drive." "Nobody driveB 11/!f car but me." 

DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN KA.L A FRIENDSHIR 



The Observer/Oave Short 

Stretch out those muscles 
A member of the Cavanaugh Crusaders stretches out Thursday before practice, as the Crusaders pre­pare for their upcoming rematch of last year's interhall football championship with Alumni Hall. 
BUCHAREST, Romania (AP) -A military court on Thursday released Nicu Ceausescu, the youngest son of the former dic­tator, from jail for three months because of failing health, the official Rompress news agency said. 
The same court on Friday convicted Ceausescu, who is suffering from an advanced case of cirrhosis of the liver, of complicity in murder and sen­tenced him to 20 years in prison. 
But it also agreed to Defense Attorney Paula Iacob's request for a third medical examination after two earlier ones reached contradictory conclusions about the 39-year-old Ceausescu's ability to withstand an extended stay in jail. 
Thursday's decision appar­ently was a result of the latest medical examination. Ceausescu also is appealing the conviction. 
He initially was charged in connection with 89 deaths that took place during December's revolution in the Transylvanian city of Sibiu, where he had been Communist Party chief since 1987. 
His father, Nicolae Ceausescu, and mother, Elena, were executed in the revolution, which ended more than four decades of communism in Romania. 
Nicu, who had earned a repu­tation as a hard-living playboy with political ambitions, also is recovering from a stab wound suffered when he was arrested Dec. 22. 
He was held in prison hospi­tals during most of his five­month trial. According to Romanian law, Ceausescu is el­igible for successive releases on health grounds until he either recovers or the sentence ex­pires. 
Prosecutors were given three days to appeal the decision to release him. 
You'll get first hand experience in ~It' court-11 t;.tke.. to tw a :\tuinl' Inrp:-. Officer ~utd room right from the start. In three ye-AP.i. you lav.-vt·r. talk v.ith the ~1anne t~wps Officer could handle more th<m ),000 cases in a Sdt'l1ion Officer whm hl' visit..; vour campw.;. 
v.ide \'~uiety of ~uhjt•cb ------·---\lor(' 1h:u1 I'·XUlOO ;A from international to COil-Have Marim.~ c_ou.ld ll~~-1; tracts to criminal law If J'lln.,nnn pi!Dn(S your senm·. Q~;--· 
you tl1ink you have \\h~u 7UaUUU t,llt,•• JJe'n·kxlkiT~~:Iilralet.goodmm 
from the start. 
Friday, Septembe~ 28_._ 1990 



Congress OKs gulf military build up 
WASHINGTON (AP) -After three weeks of painstaking ef­fort, a House committee Thursday endorsed a resolution that supports President Bush's moves in the Persian Gulf crisis but avoids approving any fu­ture military action. 
The approval of the resolu­tion by the Foreign Affairs Committee came on a voice vote late in the day after an earlier effort unraveled amid fears that lawmakers might be issu­ing an implicit blank check for war. 
The panel acted in a hastily called session after Chairman Dante Fascell, D-Fla., worked out final details with the presi­dent's national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft. 
The resolution is expected to go before the House on Monday. 

At the same time, a new $7.5 billion arms package Bush pro­poses to sell to Saudi Arabia was winning qualified support on Capitol Hill. 
The Saudi arms assortment included 150 advanced M-1A2 tanks, six Patriot anti-missile batteries with 384 missiles, a dozen Apache ground-attack helicopters with 155 Hellfire missiles, 1,750 improved TOW anti-tank missiles with 150 launchers, nine multiple-launch rocket systems with 2,880 
Weekend Liturgical Schedule Sacred Heart Church 
Saturday, September 29 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Thomas Zurcher, CSC 

Sunday, September 30 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Thomas Zurcher, CSC 
11:45 a.m. Rev Ste hen Newton, CSC 

If you are seekin~ a unique.rhallenging joh with the '>t'mrit~· of knowing it is guaranteed upon ~rarluation should \OU dwow In arcept thl· cornrni\Sion. t·aiii-1100-72X-922X for more information about the \1arine ( ·orp' t lffit·er Prugrams. 
rockets, seven KC-130 tanker planes, 10 C-130 cargo planes and 10,000 assorted trucks, transporters and trailers. 
In other developments on Capitol Hill, the Senate Armed Services Committee approved legislation that would provide about $400 million in special benefits for military personnel stationed in Saudi Arabia. 
The bill also includes a provi­sion setting up a system by which Congress and the Bush administration would oversee and manage the expected dona­tions from foreign governments to defray the cost of Operation Desert Shield. 
Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. said the committee adopted the measure to ensure that the Pentagon "couldn't go out and spend money on some weapons sys­tems that are unrelated" to Desert Shield without congres­sional approval. 
The benefits legislation in­cludes $11 million in free postage, $265 million to make danger pay retroactive to Aug. 1 and $12 million to compen­sate some people for leave they cannot take. · 
The immediate package in­cludes items deemed necessary to meet Saudi defense needs in the current crisis. 
-----~ ­
---. 
Friday, September 28, 1990 
The Observer page 9 
Soviets to discuss --­independence of Baltics 
MOSCOW {AP) -Soviet Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov and Lithuanian officials have agreed to meet next week for long-awaited talks on the Baltic republic's drive for indepen­dence, news agencies reported Thursday. 
Both sides declined to term Tuesday's meeting at the Kremlin "negotiations" or "consultations," the official news agency Tass and Baltic news organizations said. 
Lithuania announced its inde­pendence March 11, but agreed to suspend the declaration in exchange for the lifting of an oil and natural gas embargo imposed by President Mikhail Gorbachev in May. Lithuanian officials also called for negotia­tions with the national govern­ment. 
Talks between officials of an­other breakaway Baltic state, Estonia, and the Soviet parlia­ment were suspended Sept. 6 after the Soviet side announced it had no authority to engage in "negotiations." 
Agreement on the Lithuania meeting came Thursday in a phone conversation between Ryzhkov and Lithuanian Prime Minister Kazimiera Prunskiene. 
., .. -.·-.. 
' .:.:~~-
APPhoiO

Picking up the pieces ~ 
Two German citizens collect pieces of the Berlin Wall Thursday. A Soviet tank in the back stands close to a former transit highway as a memorial to the Soviet soldiers who died during World War II. 
BEFOBEYOU HAVE TO BURY YOURHEADIN 

BOOKS ... 
Come See Us! 
HAIRCUT, SHAMPOO &BLOWDRY 
$ff95 
• No Appointment! 
• 
7 Days a Weekl 

• 
FBEE Ta.nning ­Buy4-Get4 FBEE! 


INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTURE GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA 
277-7946 





White House, Congress seek budget compromise 
WASHINGTON (AP)-White House and congressional nego­tiators narrowed differences Thursday over their budget problems with reported agree­ments on energy and luxury taxes and cuts in benefit pro­grams. But key disputes re­mained to block a deal that would avoid bone-deep cuts in federal programs on Monday. 
The two sides, racing the cal­endar, swapped offers into the evening, trying to put together the final pieces of a $500 bil­lion, five-year deficit-cutting package. 
Parts of the pact tentatively agreed to were an additional 8­cent-per-gallon gasoline tax; a small tax on the energy content of all fuels and 10 percent taxes on luxury items ranging from fancy cars to electronic equipment, said one official who asked to not be identified. 
The federal gasoline tax is now 9 cents per gallon. States add additional taxes on top of that. 
The energy tax would be three-quarters of a cent per million BTU, a measure of en­ergy. It takes about eight or nine gallons of gasoline to yield a million BTU, so the extra tax would amount to about 0.08 cents per gallon, hardly enough to register at the pump. 
Applied to high-quality coal 

burned by an electric utility, the 
tax would raise the cost of a 
500-kilowatt-hour monthly 
electric bill for a small home by 
about 4 cents. 
If successful before Monday, 

the bargainers would allow the 
government to sidestep $85 bil­
lion in spending cuts that the 
law would otherwise require. 
The slashes would result in 
furloughs for many of the 2.1 
million federal civilian workers, 
including FBI agents and air 
traffic controllers. 
Republicans were willing to 

accept a toned-down version of 
the cut in capital gains tax 
rates that President Bush has 
sought since he was a presiden­
tial candidate in 1988. The 
Ask one of the 3 million Americans 
whdve 
survived cancer, if the money spent on research is worth it. 
Weare 
-.
w1nrung. 
IAMERICAN WCANCER 
'SOCIE1Y~ 

battle between Democrats and the administration over the tax has been the key barrier to a budget deal. 
Capital gains -the profits from the sale of assets such as corporate stock or houses ­are now taxed like ordinary in­come. 
But Democrats seemed uncertain about whether in re­turn, they would demand higher income tax rates on the wealthy or a limit on the tax deductions the well-to-do could take, said officials who asked to not be identified. 
"I don't mean to put it in a negative way, but there is still a possibility of failure," said House Speaker Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash. "The odds are we will succeed." 
Bush had argued that cutting capital gains tax rates would boost the economy. Democrats say the tax cut would benefit the rich and want higher taxes on the wealthy in return. 
But the president was now willing to leave the rates con­stant if the increased value of an asset due to inflation is ex­empted, officials close to the talks have said. The proposal would apply only to property purchased after the plan be­came law. 
This official, like all the others who discussed the vari­ous proposals Tuesday night, spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Still undecided, however, was which tax boost the two sides would agree to as a trade-off. 
Republicans have proposed limiting income tax deductions for the wealthy, said one offi­cial who asked to not be identi­fied. In one variation of the idea, people earning more than $200,000 annually would only be able to claim 95 percent of the deductions to which they would otherwise be entitled. 
Democrats are interested in that idea, but have also ad­vanced two other proposals, said another official who de­manded anonymity. 
They remain interested in raising the top-bracket income tax rate on the wealthiest 
Americans from the current 28 percent. People who are some­what less well-off pay 33 per­cent in their top bracket. 
Democrats would like to boost the top rate on the rich, but they are willing to settle for a new level below 33 percent. 
They have also proposed lift­ing the earnings ceiling above which Medicare taxes are not taken out of paychecks. 
As part of Social Security withholding, people now pay a 
1.45 percent tax to support Medicare on earnings up to $51,300 per year. They pay nothing on money they earn above that amount. Under the proposal, that ceiling would be lifted to $65,000 or $75,000. 
The bargainers remained close to agreeing on cuts in de­fense and domestic programs. 
The two sides appeared close to agreeing to reduce the mili­tary budget by $170 billion over the next five years from the amount it would need to stay abreast with inflation. 
They were also trying to find a way to reduce spending on benefit programs by $120 bil­lion over the five years. 
One GOP suggestion for find­ing additional savings in benefit programs was to delay next 
year's cost-of-living increase
for the 39 million Social Security recipients for three months. 
Another official said Republicans had offered to de­lay cost-of-living increases for 60 days for all-federal benefits, including Social Security, veter­ans' benefits, and federal re­tirement programs. 
Democrats prefer increasing the tax on Social Security bene­fits. Recipients who earn $25,000 annually -$32,000 for couples -now must pay taxes on half their Social Security benefits. The Democratic proposal would boost that proportion to 85 percent. 

APPhoto
High wire act 

Lieutenant Dan Howard of Yeovil, England, hangs from a heli­copter about 100 feet over the flight deck of the Royal Fleet Auxiliary's fleet replenishment ship, the Fort Grange, in the Gulf of Oman Tuesday. The H.M.S. Gloucester, background, is serviced by the Fort Grange after ~s arrival in the Persian Gulf region. 
..-----------------------.. 
HEY 
Why is 

JOELLE 


A FREE Seminar for SENIOR YEAR NursingStudents

9 

Transition is a one-day program 
designed to help you make the 
transition from student to
I profession a I. Saturday, October 27, 1990 
This no-cost seminar includes sessions, lunch and breaks. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants at the Kahler Hotel. 
Sessions include: 
• 
Chemical Dependence in the Hospitalized Patient 

• 
Coping Measures for the Oncology Nurse 

• 
Financial planning ior the Young Professional 

• 
lnVitro Fertilization 

• 
Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

• 
Discharge Planning for Senior Adults: Special Needs for Special People 

• 
Overview of Organ Transplantation 

• 
Preparing for the Job Search 

• 
Technological Advances in 


Outpatient Surgery Deadline ior registration is Oct. 17, 1990 
Call collect 507-286-7030 
for registration i(lformation and brochure. 
Transition is sponsored by Mayo Medical Center Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 
An Atl~rm,ltM' Actwnlfqu.ll ( Jpportumt1 tmplm·('r 

Large 4x6 Glossy Print•
1 

Get one roll of film developed (12, 24 or 36 exp.) for 99¢ with this coupon. One. 
1

I coupon per household. Not valid with other offers. Expires October 12, 1990. 
: S/EARS A AT AMERICA'S 
1 ~~~ • PHOTO SHOP NDO

L-------------------------------­
fSEARSl ~FILM ~ 
~ ~ferred By Those Who Know. ­
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL Sears lower level at Hardware 271-6500 
......~~------~----~----~~~----~--------------~-----...........~------~----------------------------~---------------------~-, 
Friday, September 28, 1990 The Observer page 11 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, SEPT. 24 
8 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of her decal from her automobile fwhae parked in 1he driveway of her house. 
10:05 a.m. A faculty member reported the theft of his decal from his automobile while attending mass on campus. 
12:50 p.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported the theft of his bicycle sometime from the west side of Cavanaugh Hall during the weekend. 
1:25 p.m. Two suspicious persons where reported loitering in the lobby of the Notre Dame Credit Union. 
2:15p.m. A University employee re­ported the theft of her decal from her auto­mobile sometime during Sept. 20 and Sept. 21. 
5:15 p.m. A lewis Hall resident re­ported the theft of clothing and athletic shoes from the fencing gym near gate 4 of the Joyce ACC. 
TUESDAY, SEPT. 25 

1 p.m. Security apprehended and ques­tioned a suspect accused of theft. 
3:21 p.m. A University employee re­ported 1he theft of her decal from her auto­mobile sometime during Sept. 21. 
5:21 p.m. Two Regina Hall South resi­dents reported a suspicious person, fitUng the description of the man wanted for inde­cent exposure, in 1he lemans parking lot at Saint Mary's College. 
7:25 p.m. A lewis Hall resident re­ported misplacing her gold rope chain on Stepan Field on Sept 19. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 
26 

9 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of her decal from her automobile somelime before Sept. 22. 

SOUTH BENo•s FRUORITE NIGHT SPOT 
-WEEICLV SPECIRLS-
Rnd ••• of course•••THE BEST 
1 J.!JI£ ~JJJ~UIC UM 1.0JJ)N 
THIS FRIDAY and SATURDAY: 

THE WAIT 
From Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
I $1.00 OFF COJJE.R I
~-------------~ 
I ~~~ 1
I I 

.. ~A I ~.
R ~ 
• !:;} If;.e
-

.u.c.c. 9-23-90 1•'-;;.oNonhotNotni!>Oawo........_.-..
L 




~ke aa~~e~andwiches.
p1zza 
• 
Wide selection of Mexican and American food and beverages. 

• 
10°/o discount on food purchases with N D/SMC and Holy Cross student, faculty and staff ID.* 

• 
Conveniently located in Indian Ridge Plaza near Phar Mor and TJ Maxx. 


Hours: Mon.-Thur. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.& Sat 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. noon-10 p.m. 
American Express, VISA, Master Card accepted. 

: •Offer good thru September : ·\, __ . . . . . '"·""~ · · · . onlyattheGrape Rd. location....~,-:·~-. . ...... . 
: arai>e Road at" Indian ·Ridge Plaza~ Mishawaka'.-277_.13fa· 
Soviets pass religious reform 
MOSCOW (AP) -Soviet reli­gious leaders said Thursday they are satisfied with the country's new law on freedom of conscience, but consider it a stopgap measure. 
The law, which the national legislature approved in princi­ple on Wednesday, calls a halt to decades of repression by forbidding the government from interfering In the practice of religion. 
It also improves the legal status of religious organiza­tions, guarantees the right to study religious doctrine and calls for a religious council to advise the government on hu­man rights. 
Vatica~ chief spokesman Joaquin Navarro said the new law "renders justice to millions 

of believers." "The Ukrainian Catholic Church welcomes this first step 
toward  true  religious  free­ 
dom,"  added  church  head  
Cardinal  Myroslav  Ivan  
Lubachivsky.  

Russian Orthodox, Baptist and Jewish leaders told re­porters at a press conference organized by the Foreign Ministry that the law is a major step forward. But they said it Is complex and unclear on some points. 
"I think this law will be of a transitional nature," said Georgi Komendant, president of the Soviet Baptist Society. "In due time, if everything is okay, it should be more brief, less complicated." 
Komendant also said the 
spirit of the law -official tol­erance for religion -is more important than the wording. 
"This is a good law ... and as Baptists, we are satisfied with it," he said. 

Metropolitan Pitirim, a leader of the dominant Russian Orthodox Church, called the law "unprecedented" and said "it can be considered successful as a first offspring" of demo­cratic reforms. But, he added, "A lot of provisions need clari­fying." 
Among the ambiguities are whether public schools can teach about various religions, whether the military should hold services for religious sol­diers and whether conscientious objectors will be allowed an alternative to military duty. 
All-Russia Orthodox church patriarch Alexi II watch.es wit~ other clergymen from various religious gr::P'::~the votes are cast Wednesday at the Supreme Sovtet, whteh passed USSR's first freedom of law. 
~==-==-=----~;:-::-;--;:-:;--;;-;;--;;--;-;;~~;·;;~:-:~::~:::~;~:::':~;:·I=:::!........................~J 

lHIAlPlPY 20th 
K from 
18RlRJHlDAY, JROGI 
We love you, 
...... 

Your roommates from 
Farley 
TONIGHT ... AN EVENING UNDER THE STARS IN THEODORE's 
w1th e pleneter1 um show 
SHOW TIMES 

7:00 pm, 8:00 pm, · · · 9:00pm 




Viewpoint 
page 12 Friday, September 28, 1990 

LETTERS 

United States morally obligated to counter Hussein 
Dear Editor: fiable one. He is indeed a countries, the other of Anglo­this reason that America, as the threat of communism: a purely 
I am writing this letter in re­"crazed ... Dictator who will Saxon dominated countries. premiere world power, is philosophical battle. The Iraqi sponse to Michael Masone's not be moved back" and "has Many other parallels can be obliged to lead the united world invasion of Kuwait and the column of Sept. 24, concerning not hesitated to use chemical drawn but the similarity is against the tyrannical acts of pursuing situation is much the Persian Gulf crisis. Mr. weapons. . . on his own evident. Saddam Hussein. more than a moralistic battle. It Masone argues that the United people." These realistic is a threat to world balance and States must make a .commit­perceptions conjure up the The point is that the United Another parallel which many stability. Thus, critics of the ment to integrity and reevalu­image of another "crazed States, which is the dominant people have been trying to Vietnam war cannot use the ate it's position in the Persian dictator," Adolf Hitler. Although world force militarily and draw is between the current same arguments against cur­Gulf. He goes on to rebuff seemingly far-fetched the diplomatically, must stand situation in the Persian Gulf rent situations in the Middle President Bush's decision-mak­comparison can be made. Both against President Hussein as it and the Vietnam War. The two East. It is imperative that the ing and the unyielding patrio­leaders had the rallied support did against Hitler. If Mr. situations are, however, United States remain in Saudi tism of the American people. of their troops and fought in the Hussein is allowed to continue fundamentally different. The Arabia and lead the fight 
name of religion (Hitler's being to conquer smaller oil-produc­United States involved itself in against Hussein. 
The description of President Fascism). Hussein, as did Hitler, ing countries, the devastating Vietnam on a moral basis. It JohnS. Barry Saddam Hussein which Mr. sees himself as an empire­consequences would be felt was unnecessary to defena Keenan Hall Masone offers us is a very justi-builder; the one of oil producing throughout the world. It is for democratic state against the Sept. 24. 1990 
Obnoxious behavior of one reflects poorly on everyone 
Dear Editor: that we cheered just as loudly we should. intellectual snobs, they'd have conscious effort to behave 
The MSU road trip is over, and showed just as much spirit At the beginning of the game, some pretty powerful am­civilly at other away games. and I'm sure it holds fun as we usually do when standing "Mouth" thought he was being munition. Coach Holtz has made our memories for everyone who up. cute when he led his buddies in This was the first time in my football team into a class act went, myself included. This is where "Mouth" comes a rousing chorus of "If You four years here that I was em­that everyone respects. It's a Unfortunately, there is one in. He yelled at MSU fans for Can't Go To College, Go To barrassed to be an NO student. shame that an insensitive lout issue that marred an otherwise complaining that they couldn't State." It may be a fun song to I think the rest of us did a good like "Mouth" can do such exciting day, and it must be ad­see. He swore unmercifully. He sing in the ND student section job of making up for "Mouth's" damage by having a little too dressed. This issue involves a insulted fellow Notre Dame stu­at home, but it is totally rudeness, but it's a shame that much to drink and being a little Notre Dame student (I don't dents for sitting down, and sug­uncalled for when you're sur­such an obnoxious person de­too sure of his own importance. know his name, so I'll refer to gested that we leave if we didn't rounded by MSU fans. If people graded the name of our fine Jo DeLorenzo him as "Mouth") who, in short, want to cheer when he thought wanted to accuse us of being university. I hope that people Pasquerilla West managed to offend everyone will read this and make a Sept. 23. 1990 around him at the game. 
We sat in section 2 in the end~-~~~-----!'"~-.... Courtesy ··s key play 
zone, and there was a bit of a 

dilemma as to whether or not we should stand for the whole Dear Editor: fans of visiting teams. game like we do at home. Beginning with this Bad taste in language. signs course all of the NO students Saturday's football game and T-shirts is beneath the wanted to stand, but there were against Purdue University, we dignity of Notre Dame students. many MSU fans who were not have four games in a row in Let us make sure that we show accustomed to this. Moreover, Notre Dame Stadium. our support and enthusiasm for seated in front of me were four One nice thing about being a the team with the class people 
elderly Irish fans, who, even if Notre Dame student is that you expect of us. they had wanted to, were can be introduced anywhere in And after a game is over, probably incapable of standing the country and you never have please do not come to the team for a three and a half hour to explain where you're from. on the field; the team will come game. Being the considerateHI~.....­People know Notre Dame, and to you with its traditional people that we are, the ND..,~---.:,.,_;;:..o;;;;;;,;~,~; .-w;.....,M'-!.-!ii..,,.~.-..-..~~;z,.a.~ they know the things it stands gesture of thanks . students decided to be polite for. That's why it's important to Lou Holtz and sit down so everyone could remember the role of host and Head Coach see. I think everyone will agree the courtesy that implies for the Sept. 26. 1990 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
BaJP51&? 510. U55CN, K/0, IDKJ'S Pf!OP/.b JU5TSfNTOVeR 7He u.s.a. 5HOW SCRIPT. YrJU

I. 5lJR& YaJ a.vwr 7D m TH/5 r 
J 
~ 
j 
(F Cf)(JI?St I'M 5UR&, 5/JJ.' &VEKY­
ONe IN 7DIAJN 15 
flYING 7V GO 70 7H& GIV.' IT'S A GREAT fKJNOR! 

'The road to excess leads to the palace of wisdom." 
William Blake 
• .. ... ...~ ·" ....... l • • • • • 
-. 
Friday, September 28, 1990 page 13
Viewpoint 

Opposition to U.S. policy in Gulf not reasonable 
Egyptians, the French Foreign Africa. Where is the guarantee troops from Kuwait and the needed, and the American 
By Kevin Smant Legion or Daffy Duck leads the that the ANC will be permanent reduction of people should be aware of this. 
operation should not matter, as democratic? Conservative Saddam Hussein's ability to 
There have been passionate long as we accomplish the goal. opponents of Mr. Bush's policy threaten the peace and stability It is the job of President Bush arguments in this country Some claim that the strong should remember that they of the Persian Gulf. This would to prepare Americans for even concerning the crisis in the U.S. leadership alienates Arab supported our efforts to defend require substantial decreases in more sacrifices ahead. There is Persian Gulf, both in favor of nationalist sentiment and South Vietnam not so long ago. the size of the Iraqi army, as a lot at stake in this crisis; we and against the United States' allows other Western nations to South Vietnam was not a well as the removal of Iraq's dare not come out the loser. 
commitment of troops to the make minimal contributions to democracy either; but it was chemical and nuclear weapon Given political and military region. Perhaps the most the buildup. However, Japan's better than the alternative, and potential. These are just and realities, we must use all that striking thing thus far concern­recent contribution of $4 billion the consequences of allowing it laudable goals, I think, and we have at our disposal. As a 
should be pursued. Now it re­wise political observer onceing the opposition to President in cash, as well as to fall proved very grave. 
Bush's policy is that it commitments of arms and men Conservatives believed then mains possible that Iraq will be said:,"We are bound to lose in emanates from both the from Syria, Egypt and Great that reality and the nature of forced to leave Kuwait as a the end if we refuse to try to American Right and Left. Now Britain belie this claim. The fact the enemy required acceptance result of the current economic win." To win, in this case, that we have (at least is that the United States, as the of the fact that our allies may blockade. But this is in no way means Saddam Hussein's temporarily) settled in for a world's leading superpower not be angels. Is the situation a sure thing, and with Iran's removal as a threat to the re­
apparent defection into the gion-which will inevitably
long autumn night in the Saudi with its largest and most really so different now? Arabian desert, it would be a capable military establishment, Iraqi camp, it could very well require U.S. military action good idea to examine the is best equipped to lead this Actually, there is one area in fail. And in any case, no serious against Iraq. 
strategist can argue that an
arguments of the opponents of fight, and must lead. which President Bush could be 
economic blockade alone will Keving Smant is a graduate
America's Persian Gulf strategy criticized. Judging from his 
3. "The United States should recent speeches, America's force Saddam Hussein to student in history.
to see if we can draw any lessons from them. not risk war in order to restore goals are twofold in this crisis: abandon chemical and nuclear 
a corrupt, undemocratic a complete withdrawal of Iraqi weapons facilities. More will be 
1. "We should not risk war Kuwaiti regime." This view is merely to protect oil supplies." utopian and unrealistic, and And why not? The first goal of misses the point anyway. We do a nation's foreign policy must not deploy our forces in the be to protect its national inter­Persian Gulf merely to restore ests. The Iraqi threat to Kuwait the status quo ante in Kuwait. 
and Saudi Arabia menaced In fact, this is not even the over 10 percent of our oil primary reason. Rather, imports and 40 percent of the President Bush's statements world's oil reserves. America clearly imply that we move in must have oil in order to order to stop Iraqi aggression. function. These factors thus Any country which wantonly 
dictated an American response attacks its neighbor, loots its to Iraq's aggression. medical and food supplies, Furthermore, it is irrelevant seeks (and demonstrates) the 
to our present military policy capability to use both themical that the U.S. supposedly has no and nuclear weapons, moves its energy policy, that we are too troops to the border of yet an­dependent on foreign oil, etc. other nation immediately after 
President Bush cannot indulge its conquest of a first, and then in pondering what might have rounds up foreigners to use as been or finding scapegoats. He "human shields" against its foes 
must deal with the situation as 
must be defeated. "Defeat" in he finds it-and right now that this case must mean Iraq's requires protecting America's complete withdrawal from right to buy oil from the Kuwait, which is the 
Persian Gulf. fundamental reason for the 
start of the crisis in the first 
2. "It is wrong for the United place; ergo, this becomes the States to lead the operation. first and most important Rather, the job should be done American demand. by a United Nations peacekeeping force, or even And since when have we better, by a strictly Arab force." become so fussy about our 
This argument appears to allies? We fought in World War agree with the end, but II alongside Josef Stalin's Soviet disputes the choice of means. Union-far from a model of This is its fatal flaw, for our democracy. Many today urge most important goal should be the U.S. to support Nelson to stop Saddam Hussein. Mandela and the African 
Whether the U.S., the National Congress in South 

but this is doubtful. America
"Middle East Crisis." From with America. Israel would be, the entire world at a time when 
and its allies oppose such a
1982 to 1985, the "Middle East as one general put it, "our un­they desperately need global 
solution because it would turn
By Rick Acker Crisis" was the civil war in sinkable aircraft carrier." To support. The PaJestine 
Iraqi defeat into victory and
Lebanon. From 1985 to 1988, top it off. the West recently re­Liberation Organization, in the 
would make Saddam HusseinIn My Opinion the "Middle East Crisis" was the discovered the effectiveness of words of The Economist, "never an Arab hero. Israel opposes
Iran-Iraq War. From 1988 until the Mossad (Israel's intelligence blows a chance to blow a 
the idea because it would
No matter who the winners in the summer of 1990, the agency). The Israelis were the chance." 
involve Israel giving up itsthe Gulf crisis are, the Palestinian intifada was "the only ones who took Iraq's 
occupied territories, which
Middle East Crisis." Now, threats to invade Kuwait The chance the Palestinians
Palestinians will be losers. One would damage Israel's militaryyear ago, the Palestinians were Saddam Hussein has stolen the seriously, largely because of in­have blown this time may be position against Iraq. Thus, theriding high; they had spotlight from the intifada, and formation collected by the their last for a long time. The hopes of the Palestinians willestablished diplomatic relations no one has much time to help highly efficient Mossad. tens of millions of dollars which probably stay frozen for a longw4th America, won the moral the Palestinians anymore. The When things go well for the flow to the Palestinians each time.
high ground from Israel by re­Palestinians will have to wait Israelis, they go badly for the year from the wealthy oil states nouncing terrorism and recog­for another period of relative Palestinians. The only way the of the Gulf is almost certain to The Palestinians have beennizing Israel right to exist, and calm in the Middle East before Palestinians can achieve their be reduced, perhaps even cut dealt a bad hand by the Gulfgotten the West to solidly de­they will get more outside help goal of a Palestinian state is to off entirely. Likewise, the crisis and have played it poorly. 
nounce Israel's handling of the in reaching their goals. get Israel to withdraw from the financial and military help The Gulf crisis has distractedPalestinian "intifada." Now, all territories it occupied during which the Palestinians receive world attention from the plightthese accomplishments have Second, the importance of the Six Day War in 196 7. The from the Soviet Union will drop 
of the Palestinians and has
Israel has risen dramatically Israelis won't do that unless markedly. The political help
come to nothing. Indeed, when 
greatly increased the impor­
since August. There is only one they are pressured by America. which the Palestinians have
the Gulf crisis is over, the 
tance of Israel. The Palestinians
nation in the Middle East which And America is in no mood to gotten from Western Europe
Palestinians will be worse off have only made things worse bythan they have been in decades. has the military might to stop pressure Israel now that war is and America will also vanish, 
sidir g with Iraq. The
Iraq, and that nation is Israel. imminent in the Gulf. Thus, taking with it any chance of a
There are three ways in which Palestinians have been calledthe crisis has hurt the The Arabs are 0-5 versus the Palestinian political aspirations Palestinian settlement with 
"the tragic Arabs"-an
Israeli military. Iraq has gotten have been put on hold at least Israel. As Elias Freij, the
Palestinians. 
appropriate name for them
a lot stronger since the last until the end of the Gulf crisis. Palestinian mayor of 
today.

time it took part in a war with Bethlehem, put it, "We, the
First, the Gulf crisis has 
Israel, but it is still not strong Third, the Palestinians have Palestinians, are now entering
replaced the Palestinian 
Rick Acker is a second year
enough to beat the a deep freeze of 60 degrees be­
question as the most important decided to back Iraq. This 
law student and a regular
lsraelis-and Saddam Hussein spectacularly bad piece of polit­low zero."
Middle East issue. The world 
Viewpoint columnist. 

knows it. Also, Israel is a strong ical decision-making is certain The Palestinian deep freeze
rarely has the energy or inter­
American ally. If an all-out war to hurt the Palestinians for may thaw sooner than Freij ex­
est to deal with more than one 
breaks out in the Middle East, years to come. By siding with pects. There is some talk of a
Middle Eastern problem at a 
time. From 1979 to 1981, the Israel will, unlike some of our Iraq, the Palestinians have joint resolution of the Gulf crisis Iranian hostage crisis was the Arab allies, undoubtedly side managed to alienate virtually and the Palestinian question. 

ND alumna shares her kno and kindness with others 

SEPTEMBER 28-30 


weekend calendar 
r~M.
·vY 
MUSIC Song & Dance Night, The Coffeehouse, Grace Hall, 9 p.m. 
Mere MortalsCenter Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m. 5 O'Clock Shadow, Bone Forest, XVZ Affair, Fieldhouse Mall4:30 • 8 p.m. Planetarium Show, Theodore's, 7 • 10 p.m. 
t 
Champion, WMRD, 9:30 p.m. 
EVENTS 

Quarter Smorgasbord, Holy Cross Field, 4 p.m. until dark. 

MUSIC 

Blues News, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
Bad Apple, Alumni-Senior Club, 9:30 p.m. Champion, WMRD. 9:30 p.m. 
OFF CAMPUS 

Sam Klnlson, Morris Civic Auditorium, 8 p.m. Tickets $ 19i 
s 
y 
MUSIC 

Faculty recital, Moreau Hall Little Theatre, Saint Mary's, 2:30p.m. 
Champion, WMRD, 9 p.m. 


FRIDAY "Born on the Fourth of July," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:45p.m. 1 
"Glory," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. SATURDAY "Born on the Fourth of July," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 
10:45 p.m. 

"Glory," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "My Blue Heaven," 1, 3, 5, 7:10 & 9:10p.m. ''Taking Care of Business,"1, 3:10,5:20,7:30 & 9:40p.m. "Duck Tales," 1 & 3 p.m. "Night Angel," 5, 7 & 9 p.m. 
"Fiatliners," 1 :20, 4:10, 7 & 9:30 p.m. "Ghost," 1:30, 4:15, 7:20 & 9:50p.m. "Hardware," 1:40, 3:40, 5:40, 7:40 & 9:45p.m. 
A practical guide to sh~ Hammes Notre D a rr 
NANCY THOME accent writer 

ur Liquid Soap 
,, 
cleans and 
moisturizes 

your skin each 
time you wash. The rich scented lather contains a touch of moisturizer, leaving your skin smooth and soft." 
Such is the pitch of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore's newest product, Fighting Irish Liquid Soap, complete with pump dispenser. I was much gladdened to dis­cover that Notre Dame is now producing its own line of liquid soap, as I had become quite disgruntled with my old brand. 
Fighting Irish Liquid Soap is not the only item arousing in­terest in the bookstore as of late. For those students who have troubles adjusting to their nocturnal collegiate environs, the bookstore offers the ND night light. 
One may also purchase Notre Dame beach bucket and towel sets, which may be used at all the lovely beaches in the greater Mishawaka region. And, of course, there is the ND wall clock. This clock would not be unique if it were not for the fact that it only keeps South Bend time, so as not to coincide with any other time zone in the Americas. 
I was also surprised to learn that Notre Dame has its own line of food. There are ND mints as well as ND peanuts, both of which are rumored to originate in Howard Hall's foodsales. The true wonder of edible ND items is the Notre Dame candy bar. The only thing that distinguishes this from a run of the mill $100,000 bar is a special ingredient unique to Notre Dame ­ethanol. 
I must admit that some book­store items baffie me. Why in the world would a student want to purchase a heavy-duty staple gun? Is there anything that one could do with a heavy-duty 
0 
MAUREEN GALLAGHER accent writer 

N 
avy Lieutenant Mary Murphy, a 
Notre Dame 

alumna is actively 
involved in 

making a positive difference in 
peoples lives. 
Murphy was in the United States Navy from 1980 through 1987. During that time she helped develop and direct TANC (reaching as a New Career). This is a program for retiring sailors and officers which gives them an opportunity to receive their teaching certificate with­out all of the time and expense usually involved in getting such a degree. Murphy, however, emphasized that there is a strict set of criteria. 
" I have taught at an Univer­sity level. I respect academic commitment. This program al­lows people to get their teach­Ing certificate, recognizing the staple gun on campus that would not bring about major fines? 
What about another book­store offering, rubber finger­tips? It truly is a sorry day in Domerland when one needs to purchase an implement to aid in page-turning. 
I was also amazed to learn that white-out is not necessarily white. One may find white-out in almost any color, yet it is not called "blue-out" or "pink-out" Strange. I can't yet prove it, but I .suspect a conspiracy of some sort. 
And, what kind of warranty can we get on those ND musical buttons? 
I was deeply saddened by the 
importance of teaching as well as taking into consideration their experiences." 
Although Murphy is no longer directing the TANC program, it has expanded to 13 locations such as Jacksonville, Florida and Marymount, Virginia. Mur­phy said, "On base, TANC works to everyone's advan­tage." 
Murphy was also involved in the "Navy Kids" program. Once a week for an hour and a half, the Navy gives time off for vol­unteers to tutor urban children. This program is for children in rrrst through eighth grade who are behind in Math or English. Murphy worked with Naomi Warren, a fifth grade student. 
Murphy said with a laugh, "Naomi was a delight; a trip. She was a quick child, and she wants to be a brain surgeon someday." 
"In the program the relation­ship was an instant love affair," said Murphy, "We were role fact that I could not locate the infamous plaid ND pants. Perhaps, the alumni want to have a monopoly (Dome-opoly?) on these stylish threads. Apparently, no one who graduated after 1964 can obtain the pants. It's my belief that there is an underground market dealing in plaid ND pants and the bookstore deemed it too dangerous to carry them this fall. 
I also suspect that the Notre Dame phone is an item exclu­sively for alumni. My reasons are two-fold: Only alumni can afford to pay $89.95 for a phone that plays the fight song instead of ringing, and we stu­dents are only allowed to use 
models and positive influences 
on the children. We tried to 
show them what an education 
can do for people." 

Mary Murphy is a fine exam­ple of just what education can do for a person. She is a 197 4 graduate of the University of Notre Dame. Before this she earned her bachelor's degree in English at St. John's University. She received her master's de­gree In literature, and a doc­torate degree as well from Notre Dame. While a Notre Dame she was also involved in the choir and WSND radio sta­tion. 
Now, she shares her knowl­edge with others through teaching. She explained how her experience at Notre Dame helped her. "It's funny because you don'tjustjoin teaching after working in technical jobs. But, being at Notre Dame taught me to communicate ef­fectively orally as well as in writing. I learned to research 
page 15 


opping in the 1e Bookstore 

.. 
JENNIFER SOUKUP orange, including the doors to anxiously awaiting customers. accent writer those now-famous bathrooms. Then there's the pizza. The booth seats are Rocco's offers both thick and 
ntil asked to Naugahyde, the tablecloths are thin crust. and a variety of top­
U 
write this review. vinyl, and the glasses and pings from which to choose. No the only time I plates are plastic. Frank matter what your personal 
had ever heard of Sinatra is on the juke box. It is preferences, you won't be dis­
Rocco's the consummate cheesy (no pun appointed. We opted for the Restaurant was the time a intended) Italian restaurant. thin crust with mushrooms. It friend hid out in the bathroom The kind of restaurant that was fabulous. The crust was to avoid being arrested when categorically has great Italian crisp, the sauce unbelievably the party she was attending got food. Rocco's is no exception. fresh. and the cheese and busted. My most esteemed dining mushrooms abundant. The av­
Was I missing out. The menu companion/driver and l started erage pizza cost is about boldly proclaims "The First with a selection from Rocco's $12.00, depending on what you
university-issued phones. bust of Knute Rockne, nab one Original Pizza In Town-The fairly comprehensive wine list. choose.
I am not sure how to respond for me." Or, if your father Best Pizza In Town!", and this We chose a nice blush as a Rocco's also offers cannoli to the little stuffed Fighting already has Knute Rockne's claim is certainly well deserved. compromise, being unsure of and cheese cake, but unfortu­
Irish figurines found in the back bust. you can always get that the correct wine to compliment
Located at 537 N. St. Louis nately, time and stomach ca­of the bookstore. I can only timeless gift -a giant, furry Street, Rocco's is easily acces­pizza. In addition to wine, pacities wouldn't allow for 
describe these as voodoo dolls. Notre Dame hockey puck. sible from campus (or when Rocco's offers domestic and dessert. Be
Isn't voodoo against DuLac? The Hammes Notre Dame fleeing from a raid). The own­imported beers, and the stan­forwarned-Rocco's doesn'tThough, I must admit, the Bookstore -you've laughed ers, Rocco and Julia Ameduri, dard soft drinks and coffee. accept personal checks or
bookstore does come in handy here, you've cried here, you've The menu itself is very ex­
have been serving up their fine credit cards, so if you are
when one needs to buy presents spent your entire summer sav­pizza since 1951, with little tensive, offering many different hungry, a stop at the cash
for someone. My father's ings here. It's as much a part pasta dishes, sandwiches. and
change in recipe, quality or machine might be in order. 
birthday is coming up in two of Notre Dame life as specials such as veal scallopine 
decor.
weeks, and I. like every college Theodore's and meatless baked The restaurant itself is rather and scampi. Every Friday and All in all, Rocco's is a greatstudent, have agonized in the ziti. Saturday. home made baked place for a great meal. The
small, but is liberally decorated 
past to find my dad a meaning­There is no better place than lasagna is offered as a special food, the ambiance, even Rocco
with pictures (the daughters'
ful gift. No more. For a mere the bookstore to purchase First Communion portraits and treat. The prices for these and Julia themselves all con­
$16.95, one can buy what every deodorant, needlepoint equip­the one of the Pope are my items range from $3 (a meat­tribute to the overall experi­father covets -a Knute Rockne ment, and the highly revered personal favorites), Notre Dame ball sub) to $12.50 (the scampi). ence. It's a lot like going to an bust. notes of Cliff. Which brings me paraphernalia, and huge wall Diners get their money's worth Italian grandmother's house for 
Why, just the other day, my to my final question: Who is murals of the Italian country of the pasta. We saw huge dinner, if only Grandma had dad said to me, "Gee, Nancy. If Cliff anyway, and how do we side. platefuls of spaghetti, ravioli, seating for 50 and neon beer 
you ever happen run across a signs in her window.
know he takes good notes? Everything is red, green, or and mostaccioli being taken to 

,wledge 
as well as organize." 
These skills were beneficial to Murphy in the development of the TANC program as well as her involvement with the "Navy Kids" program. 
She also mentioned how an­other teacher from the Univer­sity of Notre Dame had a great influence on her. "Dr. Lewis Soens helped me a great deal. He was exceptional." 
In response to this being the Year of Women at Notre Dame, Murphy said that she is proud to be one of the first women to graduate as a lay person from Notre Dame, but she also ac­knowledges the nuns who earned degrees from Notre Dame. "It is about time that nuns are given credit as human beings," said Murphy. 
In a world where few people can find time to help others in need, Mary Murphy is a person who is making a difference by sharing her wealth of knowl­

edge and kindness. Navy Lietenant and former ND graduate Mary Murphy helps Naomi Warren, a fifth grade inner-city Washington D.C. student. Photo courtesy of 1he U.S. Navy 

Friday, September 28, 1990
page 16 The Observer 
What if the Lord had been a woman? 
Father Robert Griffin 
As a priest who cares about women's rights, I hope to God that I have the humility to be a good listener. 
Does anyone have the patience to answer some questions? For example, would Christianity, as we know it, have been different if Jesus had been a woman? When you consider the violence He met, and the sacrificial death, wouldn't the picture have looked even uglier if the victim had been a woman, hassled to death by bullies? 
One summer, living in Greenwich Village, a young woman told me how she had been grilled by the police after she had reported being raped. 
"Had she struggled and were there signs of struggle on her body?" She explained that the rapist had held a knife on her, threatening to cut her, if she didn't submit. 
"Had the alleged perpetrator cut the clothes off her?" No. "Had he ripped them off, then?" No. Terrified of being slashed, she took them off her­self. "She undressed herself without any kind of struggle?" Her struggle was with fear that the rapist would kill her. 
"Had the alleged perpetrator physically harmed her, wounded her even slightly, or left pricks on the skin with his knife?" With that question, the young woman lashed out at him, "No, officer, the bastard merely raped me." 
She explained to me, "Alleged perpertrator is language the District Attorney uses on televi­sion to refer to a suspect to save himself from being sued. Hearing him say it to me im­fact, He was as meek as a lamb. Every gun-slinger on Main Street took potshots at Him; when the smoke cleared, there was nothing to do with the remains of that lawman plugged with holes, but to plant Him. 

To the surprise of His ene­mies, He wasn't ready to start pushing up daisies. To the sur­prise of Death, which is mankind's archenemy, the love in Him was stronger than Death. Because of the love in Him, Death itself would one day die. 
In the shootout at Calvary, the principal actors were God, Who so loved the world that He sent His Son, and the Prince of Darkness, who fathers the sin in all of us, represented at Calvary by the mobs yelling, "Crucify Him." 
If the crowds had been yelling, "Crucify Her," Calvary might have seemed a heightened version of the Susanna story, this time with the elders having a field day with the blameless daughter of Israel. 
Could this be the reason the Church is nervous about or­daining women as symbolic fig­ures representing Christ as the victim of Calvary's violence? This is an argument that the 
religion editor of the London Times has used. The Catholic Church is more enlightened than the Times religion editor. I'm tempted to believe that what the Chruch is, is a century of women, or even a millen­nium, if that's how long it takes to reform the paternalistic chauvinism that's been passed down in the Church like the apostolic succession. 
When God writes the scenario for a revelation, He's artistic enough to keep the imagery consistent. This Incarnate Word of His is conscious of God as His Abba, Whose image He is. Abba seems like a non­negotiable term of affection that keeps the New Testament on tract. After that, revelation comes to us heavy with male images, thus saving the Church from ambiguities that could confuse the imagination. 
I mean, if God is more than father and mother, which He is, how do you think of God or imagine God in a non-sexist way as Abba or the Good Shepherd, without contributing to the sexual tension which was not, nor should it have been, the main issue in the battle be­tween worlds at Calvary? How do you read the parables that begin: "A man had two son"? 
How long has it taken Notre Dame to become coeduca­tional? How long is it going to take to reform a chauvinist Chruch? Must we impoverish the Church of its devotional language before the reform can begin? Or should we pray to the Holy Spirit to send us new kinds of images and devotional language, and even a new sacrament of orders that will give Catholic women their place in the sun? 
Iconoclasm, as Catholics should know by now, is stupid­ity that leaves tradition trashed. Don't Anglicans feel impoverished by the iconoclasts who re-wrote their prayer book 
and their King James Bible, 
both masterpieces of language 
about God? 

Letters to a Lonely God 
plied I might be lying about be­ing raped." "But you came out of it with­out a scratch on your body?" 
"Officer, I'm sorry I didn't have the heart to act brave after he warned me my boyfriend could find my body in his hallway if I got smart." 
"So she was coming from her boyfriend's apartment?" Yes. "How did the perpetrator know that?" He must have been watching me. "Had she spent the night in her boyfriend's apartment?" Yes. "But does that prove I wasn't raped?" The officer shrugged his shoul­ders, implying that if she stayed over night, that proved she wasn't a virgin. She may not have been a tramp, either, but she certainly had a track record. 
When she finished her story, reported here verbatim, as best as I can remember it, she had tears in her eyes from recalling the humiliation she was sub­jected to by New York's finest. 
Years ago in Boston, a woman asked me if I would go to court on behalf of her hus­band, who was in jail waiting to go on trial for stealing furni­ture. 
Visiting him, I found out that he had spent time behind bars as a lad of eighteen. "Why were you there?" "I served ten years for raping the minister's daughter." "Were you guilty?" "I only beat her up for infecting me with venereal disease." 
The man had a history of ly­ing; how could I trust him not to lie to me? When he died in a street fight two months after the judge entrusted him to me for rehabilitation, I felt his widow should have inscribed, "Born to lose," on his head­stone. 
The sun never sets on the battered women in the world. Our Lord shames the dirty old men, ready to stone the woman taken in adultery. In the Old Testament, we read of the vir­tuous Susanna, falsely accused by dirty old men of committing adultery; this was their way of getting even with her for refus­ing to sleep with them. 
Civilization itself bears wit­
ness to the sexual tension un­derlying the violence that men offer women. Would it have seemed otherwise if the Man of Sorrows had been a woman? Imagine the Suffering Servant as a woman mocked and spit upon, scourged, and crowned with thorns, hanging naked upon the Cross. Would not the accounts of the Passion then seem like prime matter for a case study in rage we would find hard to read? 
Calvary was the mankind's great high noon when a shootout took place that was as cosmic as Armageddon. The Son of God rode into town to play sheriff; surprisingly, he didn't wear shootin' irons; in 

HAMILL! HOLTZ! HOCKEY! 
. AND MUCH MUCH MORE! 
Notre Dame and NutraSweet® present 







IRISB ON ICE! 
Join the Notre Dame Hockey Team and Olympic Gold Medalist Dorothy Hamill, Notre Dame Football Coach Lou Holtz and A.D. Dick Rosenthal on the ice for a figure skating and intrasquad hockey exhibition 
Monday, October 8, 1990 at 7 p.m. The Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center's Ice Arena 
* 1990 World Champion Jill Trenary 
featuring * 1989 U.S. Men's Champion Christopher Bowman performances 
* Two-time National Dance Champions Susan Wynne & Joseph Druar 
by' .. 

* 1990 U.S. Pairs Bronze Medalists Sharon Carz & Doug Williams 
Be one of the first to see Ric Schafer's 1990-91 Irish Hockey Team in action! 
TICKETS ON SALE AT NOTRE DAME BOX OFFICE (239-7356) 
Adults $5 Reserved Seating and $3 General Admission Children 16 and under $4 Reserved Seating and $2 General Admission NO/SMC students $4 Reserved Seating and $2 General Admission NutraSweet and the NutraSweet symbol are 


registered trademarks of The NutraSweet Company
Allproceeds benefit the Notre Dame Varsity Hockey Program 
for its brand of sweetening ingredient. 



Friday, September 28, 1990 
The Observer page 17 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be 
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
LOST: TEMORARY ID & NEW YORK ATIORNEY NEEDS NEW STRIP BAR TO OPEN IN WANTED: Purdue & Stanford Tix; ( NOTICES VALIDINE. PLEASE CALL WILL FOR SALE MIAMI TICKETS. STUDENT OR THEODORE'SIII Students or GA's. Please AT 3028. THANKS!!!!!! GA. WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL I need AIR FORCE GA's. If you Call x1840. COLOR TV AND V<;H HtN IAL::>: SAM AT (201 )334-3804. can help me or want to become a TYPING AVAILABLE 19" COLOR TV, TWO part owner of the new bar, call 287-4082. LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH SEMESTERS $110, ONE DAVE AT X2201. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WATCH SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO MIAMI TIX WANTED WITH HEART-SHAPED SEMESTERS $110, ONE $ STUDENT OR GA $ GRAD STUDENTS!! FACE. SEMESTER $80. (201) 334-3804 HAVE PURDI,IE ST.TIX #1747 Future Domer "Party Party" TUES. 9/25 BETWEEN COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-ASK F(JR1.ANCE Needs Miami Ticket-G.A. or SECURITY BLDG. AND 5959. Student. She's my little sister and Lisa's Birthday Party I so. has only seen Navy and S.M.U. Wilson Commons' Lounge DINING HALL. EXTREME Needed: Miami Tix, Stud. or NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S Please help her see a real game. This Friday, Sept. 28 SENTIMENTAL VALUE. ..$$Two GA's Wanted ..$$ GA Please call Matt X3024 STU. TIX FOR SALE Call Elizabeth at X2830 . 
8:00 PM to 1 :00 AM IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL ANY HOME GAME Dave X3024 "Who's Lisa?, Who cares?" KATIE @2981 Have stud tix on 35 ydline for $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Sponsored by the GSU. trade and/or$$. even Miami!! For Sale: 
CaiiLyn at 284-5008 NOW. Tickets for all home games All grad students and their WANTED call Joe X1688 NEED 2 STANFORD GA Need a Purdue student ticket? significant others invited. Monday -Thursday TRADE 2 AIR FORCE GA + $ I have one. 
TICKETS FOR TRADE: 3:30-6:30 PM MIKE 1158 Call Chris at 288-3354. "Party Party" WE NEED STANFORD I GIVE YOU TWO AiR FORCE 
GRAD STUDENTS!! TICKETSHI! GA If you can help us out, call YOU GIVE ME TWO MIAMI GA WANTED: 2 GAs to the NEED PURDUE TICKETS Michelle x3879 or Julie x3851. I GIVE YOU LOTS OF MONEY!!! STANFORD game. Call E.J. at I REALLY NEED 2 MIAMI G.A.'s!! STUDENT OR GAs 
TIM x1421 272-4715. good $$$-call Jacquie @ x4986 CALL x1517 WELCOME WARREN WILDCATS 5TH GRADERS! BABYSITIER WANTED: looking 
for someone to watch 2 small Double papason couch Need Miami GAs & Studs PLEASE HELP!. ... My parents HAVE A GREAT DAY ON OUR children in my home. 4-8 hours a $100.00 O.B.O. call Mike 273-1537 need Pur GAs. CAMPUS. week.(llexible) wage negotiable. 273-0419 after 5:00p.m. call Jim x1495 2 PURDUE GA'S. GOOD SEATS 
Transportation required. SECT 15. CALL288-4183 & 
I need 1 Miami stud. LEAVE NAME. NUMBER AND Typing x1640 Pete OFFER Pickup & Delivery Need GAs for AIR FORCE and Two round-trip tickets to I Need GA's for 277-7406 TENNESSEE Jackie x4112 SEATILE for sale-$230 each. AIR FORCE, MIAMI, and 
Leaves South Bend on 1 0/20 after SELLING! PENN STATE. Also need stud. for !!!!!!!HELP!!!!!! 
the Miami game and returns to SB PSU & Miami. PLEASE call Beth I NEED TWO STUD. TIX FOR AIR PROFESSIONAL WORD Need Money ??? on 1 0/27. Call Carol or Julie at 2AIR F. GA'S at 288-0597 FORCE FOR ADORABLE UTILE PROCESSING BY THE HOME Local Book Distributor Needs x4937. BROTHER!! OFFICE. Help. Flxbl Hours. Many NEED CALL PATSY X4765 Resumes, reports, manuscripts, Opportunities. Call Mr. Turner ND Alum needs 3 GA tix for Penn dissertations. theses, etc. Familiar 288-1002 12-5 M-F 1 STAN. GA St. Call Jeff Walsh collect (602) with various style manuals, as well I HAVE GA'S AND STUD TIX 257-5971, as the N.D. "Guide". Reliable, TO EVERY GAME. CALL TOM EITHER OR BOTH II am-8pm, M-F. TICKETS WANTED: accurate, efficient. Pickup and AND LEAVE B.O. #3770 delivery available. Call 234-3891. Need ride to W. PA • E. OH, or MATI 273-9602 10 GA'S FOR AIRFORCE 
Pittsburgh 10/5 returning 1017. NEED STANFORD GAISTUD Call and we can talk money. Mike 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET Call Trace 289-3467 4 GA'S FOR PENN STATE SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 3528 Best Offer 3 STUD MIAMI TIX 
0 

237-1949 283-4369 BEST OFFER CALL X1650 AND LEAVE NAME. 271-0836 PRICE AND PHONE IF NO ONE Will trade 2 student tix IS HOME. 
JUST SAY NO! will trade 1 Miami stud +1 Aforce FOR SALE: 12-inch Black & White for 2 GA's + add'! Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's or purdue stud. for 1 Miami GA. X Portable TV!I! Excellent condition. WANTED: ONE PENN STATE cost for PU & Stanford. Marie 277­Books, comer of ND ave. & 4986 Call x1208 and leave a message STUD. TICKET. BEST OFFER. 4221 Howard. 233-2342 for Paul. Will take best offer CALL AMANDA X4953 Need to sell one Purdue student 
before midnight, Oct. 121h. ticket-LOW PRICE!! 
NEED 2 STANFORD GA's. Call Maura X4914 BED & BREAKFAST I need a PURDUE stud. ticket... will Have 2 Purdue GA CALL x2094 OPENINGS FOR ALL ND buy or trade (Stanford). DINING TABLE & 4 CHAIRS; Need 2 Stan GA EVENTS Call Heather at 1332. COMUPTER DESK & HUTCH; TRADE? Rob 2463 HEATED POOL, PRIVACY, & CITIZEN PREMIERE NEED AIR FORCE Tix RELAXATION IN WOODED S.B. DAISYWHEEL PRINTER; 1GA1ST SUBURBS. ONLY MINUTES I NEED AIR FORCE TIX MOVING Desperately Seeking 5 AIR PATIIx4308 AWAY FROM MALL, STUD. OR GA'S BOXES. CALL 227-5957 FORCE Ga's ... will buy as many as NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S. CALL KELLE x4420 RESTAURANTS & ND. CAN BE SEP. OR TOGETHER you have to sell. Please call me! KAREN@ 284-5261. 219-273-0388 OR 1-800-669 WILL PAY ANY PRICE Angela @2496 0388. CALL MIKE -1731 PLEASE DINING TABLE & 4 CHAIRS; 
COMPUTER DESK & HUTCH; GIRLS! GIRLS! GIRLS! GIRLS! 
CITIZEN PREMIERE Need: I HAVE 2 PURDUE TIX FOR Got your attention? We have 4 SMC-ND students-summer DAISYWHEEL PRINTER; SALE-CALL X2871 Student tix for Miami-Senior programs London (May 22-June MOVING BOXES. CALL277-5957 TICKETS FOR ALL HOME Section!! Highest bidder-273­
21) and Rome (June 16-July 15). Christmas Help GAMES! 2078 Travel in Ireland, Scot., Eng., National firm has many openings NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S France, Ger .. Switz., and Italy. available. $8.10 For sale: Bianchi Nuovo 12 speed CALL JOE X 1688 LEAVE MIKE MESSAGE-1599 Courses in art. bus. and econ., starting. Gain great business racing bike. Mavic rims, Shimano Monday-Thursday educ., Italian, justice ed., his!. and experience . Weekends and 600 components. In great shape. 3:30-6:30 I need several Stanford tickets. soc. Meeting Oct. 15 7:00pm evenings available.ca11271-8699 $250 or best offer. NEED 2GA'S FOR STAN AND 277-9358 Carroll Hall (SMC). Teachers, Call Bob at x3588. AIRFORCE MIKE-1625 slides, former students, pi;zza, etc. For info call Prof. A.A. Black 284-NEED 2 GA & 2 STU. TIX FOR I NEED 1 MIAMI STUD 4460 (office) 272-3726 (home). I need 2 GA's and 1 stud for AWESOME CAR FOR PURDUE. CALL CHRIS X1067 FOR MIAMI OH. FRIEND 
Stanford game! SALE!!II!!I!!!II WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR CALL TAD #1718 Betsy 283-3829 1980 Honda Civic HB, 4 spd, 2 PURDUE STUD. TIX amlfm cass, GOOD condition, $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ RITA 259-4947 
LOST/FOUND 
and last but not least..34 MPG!I GIVE ME A BREAK! I HAVE 1 PURDUE STUD FOR $650 CHEAP CHEAP 259-9638 I NEED 6 STANFORD AND SALE TAD #1718 
BICYCLE mechanic/sales person 8 PENN ST. GA's We have tickets to all LOST: BLUE KODAK 110 wanted. Pro-Form Bike Shop, N. CALL TIM #2704 HOME GAMES ! ! ! ! CAMERA IN BLACK&BROWN Ironwood Dr. 

TICKETS 
CASE WITH EXTRA FILM,ETC. -(between Edison & S.R. 23) 272-call Steve & Richie @ x 2275 HAVE A SR. STUD. TICKET IN LAFORTUNE SAT. 9115. I 0129. I NEED 3 PENN ST GAs! WILL FOR STAN. GAME. AMY X1343 HAVE SOME REALLY SPECIAL Need $$$?Sell TRADE 2 AIR FORCE GAs & PICTURES ON THE FILM THAT'S your ga's to all WILL PAY $$$' MAURA 2928 PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!!!! IN THE CAMERA. PLEASE CALL For Rent home games. I need 3 PENN STATE GAs AMY 284-4322 IF FOUND. Call tom x1597. together. You have seen all HAVE TWO PURDUE TIX­THANKS! the games so far, let LET'S DEAL X1167 
STUDENT HOUSING FOR 1991-Need 1 Stanford GA, Stan x2742 someone else see just ONE! 
92 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME Call Wendy at x4055. Thank •••••• REWARD•••••••• CHUCK GLORE 232-1776. GAMES.272-6306 you, thank you, thank you!!! My license was losVstolen last $$$ I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S!!! STANFORD TICKETS NEEDED! 9120 at The Commons. I need it CALL KERRY x1852. ••• 3 GAs, or 2 GAs & 1 back so I can write checks, drink a studio apartment in lovely I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER $$$$$ marriade stud tix ••• etc .... old mansion near N.D. 255 I need 2 GA's for EVERY home call Patty 255-5771 It is a Pennsylvania license. plus deposit ; please call 2888595 game! I WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! NEED PURDUE GA'S! PLEASE call Beth Bolger (the PLEASE call 284-5249 $$$$$$ I NEED 4 GAs FOR THE AIR STEPHANIE @ 4322 name on the I D) with ANY FORCE GAMEl!!! PLEASE CALL $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ information. 288-0597 NANCY AT 273-2024. HELP ME! 
roommate wanted to share lwo I Have NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S & MIAMI 
bedroom house. lwo minutes 1 stud. ticket for GA'S OR STUD. LOST: 14k gold rope chain from campus. 2730087 PURDUE. NEED MIAMI STUD TIX bracelet on Stepan Football JOHN X1384 CALL SAM X4013 field. GREAT Sentimental (I can't go 'cause I have a NEED PURDUE GAs. Value. If found, please call paper to write ... WILL PAY$$$ BILLY 233-7817 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Cara at x3847. PLEASE HELP I NEED 4 
STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK Call Cristina @ x4842 PURDUE GA'S AND 4 AVAILABLE NOW STANFORD GA'S CALL X4419 271-1833 AFTER 7:00PM A GOOD REASON FOR LIVING ­
HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! NEED 2 PURDUE STUD TIX AND ND FOOTBALL!! NEED 8 GA TIX LOST Need 2 Air Force GA's call 4 G.A'S CALL MARIA X3857 FOR PU, 9 FOR MIAMI, 5 FOR CLEVLAND SAND WEDGE NO STUDENT AND HIS WIFE Brian C. at x3546 or x3540 AF. 1-262-4990. CALL NOW! LOST ON SATURDAY-22 SEPT. MY PARENTS WANT IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LOOKING FOR SMALL APARTM. PURDUE GAs JOHN @3245 NEAR CAMPUS.CALL6-8PM DESPERATELY need PURDUE I NEED TIX TO ANY GAME!!! HELP ME, PLEASE! HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! GAslll Paul x1626 CALL SHARON 284-5089 ASK FOR PAUL.2334425 Ted x1942 or x3928 
see CLASS I page 18 

~..............................a........J•t......~.....a........~..........................a. 
\ 
Friday, September 28, 1990

page 18 The Observer 
I NEED STANFORD GA'S HAVE 2 PENN STATE GA'S HELP!! I need 4 GA's each for NEED 2 OR 4 AIR FORCE GA Elena & Kristie
Class 
CALL ERIK AT X2088. AND 1 MIAMI STU TO TRADE Stanford and Air Force. Please call CALL JOHN X1850 are on a 
continued from page 17  FOR 3 STANFORD GA'S CALL ANTHONY x4239  Sandy x4121  MANHUNT Call if you're qualified  
Selling one student ticket for  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  HUSSEIN TO VISIT CAMPUS!!!  2607 or 232-1766  
Purdue and Stanford: Kathy x2567  NEED STANFORD and MIAMI  """"NEEDED""""  I need 5 GA's for the Air Force  
TICKETS -STUD'S and GA'S  6 AIR FORCE GA's  game. Will pay BIG BUCKS!!! Call  
Call Mary at 3816.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  PLEASE CALL NOWI  KEVIN AT X 2201  
Purdue and other  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 AIR  #284-5038  NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE &  
home game  STANFORD CALL 273-1364  
tix for sale.  FORCE AND 2 MIAMI GA'S  TRADE 2 AF GA'S FOR 2 PA ST  
Call299-9122  WANTED-TIX  I NEED PURDUE GA'S  GA'S. TEDS 1388  
between 8-1 Opm  MIA-N.D. GAME  HAVE TO IMPRESS  CALL DAN 234-8608  HOW COULD YOU MISS THE  
CALL 800-323-7687  BIGGEST AND BEST TRIP OF  
GIRLFRIENDS PARENTS  YOUR N.D. CAREER? NO vs USC  
NEED 2 GA TICKETS  HAVE 2 Miami GA's  need one or two PENN STATE  -CALL 239-7308  
STANFORD.  $$ALUM NEEDS 4 TICKETS$$  MONEY IS NO PROBLEM!!!!!  Need 4 AF GA's  GAs. Call monica at 283-4021.  
CALL 203-325-9717.  FOR STANFORD. CALL  CALL JOE X1165  Will trade x1363  
COLLECT (416) 851-0187, AFTER  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  HOB KNOB IN BEVERLY HILLS &  
8:00P.M., RENO.  TRADE 2 PU GA'S FOR 2  HOLLYWOOD! CALL 239-7308.  
HAVE Stan. stud.  STANFORD. 259-7229.  
I NEED 2 STANFORD GAs. CALL  HELP! MY IRISH FATHER AND  Need Penn. stud.  
MIKE AT 283-1062, OR SUSAN  NEED 4 STANFORD TIX. CALL  TWO BROTHERS WANT  Will trade or buy! x1363  CROSSTHEBORDER-TO  
AT283-4121.  DENNIS COLLECT 914-294-6546  PURDUE G.A.'S (I NEED 3) CALL  PLEASE!!!!!!! SELL ME 2 AIR  TIJUANA, MEXICO! CALL 239­ 
AFTER 6 PM.  284-5461 A.S.AP.!!!  FORCE GAs I'M DESPERATE!  7308.  
Call Robb x1653  
WILL TRADE SIX MIAMI GA'S  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Will trade 2 Air Force GA's for 2  LIMITED ROOMS AVAILABLE  
FOR SIX BEITER MIAMI GA'S  DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S  Stanford GA's or buy them outright.  I WILL SEll All MY STUDENT  FOR PURDUE VS NO GAME AT  
I need 1 or 2 MIAMI stud. or GAs.  PLUS$$$  FOR AIR FORCE GAME!!!!!  Dennis x2384  TICKETS AT REASONABLE  JAMISON INN. CALL 277-9682  
STEVE B. X1528  ALSO NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S  CALL DENISE AT X4281  PRICES. CALL JAKKI X4292.  FOR RESERVATIONS.  
FOR$$$  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
CALL GREG 288-9075  
Need 2 Stanford GAs  Have stud tix for all home  I NEED PURDUE GA'S!  
Call x2499  Need 4 Stan. tix  games exc. Stanford. Call Bob  CALL ERIN X3425  
I NEED 3 AIR FORCE G.A.'S OR  NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S  Bob x2384  273-1442 after 6pm.  
2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD. WILL PAY  PLEASE CALL MIKE 272-4748  
$$$$$$.CALL JOHN X1177.  SPRINGBREAK SAILING  
For Sale: 1 Purdue Stud.  You should sell me 4 MIAMI GAs  PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE!!!  BAHAMAS: 45 It Captained  
Call Andrew@ x1563  WILL TRADE 4 PURDUE GA'S  immediately! Pete x1745  I REALLY NEED 1 MIAMI AND  Yachts. Groups of 6 to 8. Seven  
AND 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR 2  2 STANFORD STUDENT TIX.  Days Barefoot in the Bahamas.  
BUY. SELL OR TRADE AIR  MIAMI GA'S. CALL BERT AT  CALL KAREN AT X2612.  $448.00 each Including  
FORCE GA TIX FOR STANFORD  WORK AT 1-800-437-9318.  PLEASE HELP!!!  Accommodation and Meals.  
GAME.  I need 2 G.A's to the Air Force  SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE!  
1 purd. stud for sale. Cheap!  CALL LAUREN 273-1380  Game. Name your price.  I will gove you money and  1-800-999-7245 1 OAM-8P  
x1187  WOULD LIKE TO EXCHANGE 2  Call Bob at x3588.  "special" favors if you sell  
TICKETS FOR OCT. 6  me your 4 STANFORD GAs.  
STANFORD GAME FOR 2  Call Rich at 259-1446.  MIAMI GA FACE VALUE...  
NEED PURDUE TIX!  TICKETS TO THE NOV. 17TH  NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S  Psych... MIAMI Tkts  
CALL 273 1380 FOR KAREN  PENN STATE GAME. IF  CALL DAVE AT 3377  Stud. $125 & up  
$$$ NEED 2 PURDUE STUD TIX  INTERESTED, PLEASE CALL  THE Family coming and need 5  GA,s $250 & up  
277-5658.  Stan GA-MAFIA Connections-Sell  Can't Believe It!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
CAll TOM x 1653  me tix or lose body parts!!  
I NEED 4 MIAMI TICKETS  Call Nancy x4995  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NO/STANFORD NEED 2 TIX.  STUDENT OR GA'S  
I NEED 2 STANFORD STUD. TIX  I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL  CALL 412-339-0736.  CALL 277-9452  THE SHIRT  
CALL REX X1565  ALLISON 2732.  NEED 2 STANFORD GA.S SO  THE SHIRT THE SHIRT  
BAD, LOTS OF $$$$COULD BE  
NEED 1 MIAMI STUD TIX. CALL  •••••••••HELP"""""""""  YOURS! 4110, DEREK  Look what THE SHIRT did to  
I want your tixl!! Need 2 PENN ST.  $EX $EX $EX $EX $EX $EX  KATE AT X4045.  Help young senior enjoy 21st B­ those Wolverines from Michigan!  
GAs or STU. for sisters. call  HEY! I NEED 2 MIAMI TIXS!  Day-family coming-NEED PENN  Let's do it again, again, and  
Michele now x4995.  JASON X2099  ST. TIX-5 GAs & 2 STUD TIX­ Sell my stud. Purd. Ticket.  again...All the way to another  
NEED MIAMI GA'S!!!!!!!!!!!  Callx2607!!  Yannick. 232-9952  National Championship!  
You can pick one up at the Pep  
Parents cut me out of will. I need 2  Iii' bro' needs stud. tx-all home  JUST WON THE LOTIERY-­ Rally or concession stands at the  
AF GAs to get back in the fold. call  games. 277-8379  Please help!!  Purdue and Stanford games if you  
Michele x4995.  I'M READY TO PAY BIG BUCKS!!!  I need Penn State tickets­ missed it the first time around!!  
"""SALE""""  GAor Stud.  
I need 9, yes 9 Miami Ga's  PLEASE CALL-I'M DESPERATE  Selling PURDUE Stud ticket-Call  Call Kathie X2484  THE SHIRT THE SHIRT  
Have 4 Miami GA (2 pair), 3 Stan.  Karen x4806  Kathleen-x2607  THE SHIRT  
GA's, 2 AF GA's. Will trade combo  CALL CATHY AT 273-9624  
for 4 Miami GA's together. Ted 256­ 
5727  NEED 2 PURDUE GAs FOR MY  I have Purdue Stud Tick Marc  THE SHIRT THE SHIRT  
PARENTS, WHO WILL PAY$.  I NEED STUD OR G.A. TICKETS  NEEDED: ONE G.A. OR  x1809  THE SHIRT  
273-0318  FOR PENN STATE. CALL PAUL  STUDENT TICKET FOR AIR  If you were unable to order one  
2 Purdue tix stud tix for sale  AT 271-9950.  FORCE.  or pick one up at the Michigan  
239-8232  CALL SUSAN x2515  I NEED MANY STANFORD G.A.S.  Game concession stands and your  
CALL STACY 271-1953.  little brother desperately wants one  
STANFORD TIX; need 4 GA's; call Andrea 284-5302  HAVE 1 MIAMI GA.DESPERATEL Y SEEKING (2) STANFORD GAs. WILLING TO DEAL. MIKE X3526  HAVE MIAMI STUD. BUT I CAN'T SELL THEM. REALLY NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S CALL LIB X4820  FOR SALE FOR SALE FOR SALE 5 Purdue Stud Tix  ( PERSONALS J  you will be able to gel one at the Purdue Pep Rally or at game day concession stands on Saturday!! GO IRISH beat BOILERMAKERS!  
Call x3677  THE SHIRT THE SHIRT  
AIR FORCE TIX; need 1 student;  hiag  THE SHIRT  
call Chris x3372  NEED TWO STUDENT 'fiX FOR  
STANFORD.  
PLEASE! I really, really need  CALL DAVE #1424  Wanted:t-2 Penn GAs .. 2 GAs for  THE SHIRT THE SHIRT  
either 3 GAs or 1 GA & 2 STU lor  any homegame #2771  THE SHIRT  DearTOC.  
AIR FORCE! call X1883  Mr. AnTostal says "Thank you for  We love you! Remember that!  
H E L P !!!  participating in THE SHIRT and  Luv, KAN, LAN, & TLJ  
I  I  Need 2 A. Force GAs, will trade 2  See dad  wear it proudly to the football  
NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY  Stanford GAs, call (312) 348-2189!  See dad mad  games! Let's let the nation know  
WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS  $$$$$  See dad mad because he has no  who's #1 by making a clean sweep  To my roommates in  
PAYING TOP $$$$$  NEED 6 PURDUE GA'S  Penn St. GA's.  in '90!"  Am. 348 Siegfried,  
CALL JEFF@277-3998  CALL KATIE x3771 x3791  SEND MY GRAMPA TO THE  I need 2. John C @1622  GO IRISH!  Cynthia, Lisa, and J.J.,  
$$$$$  STANFORD GAME AND MAKE  THE SHIRT THE SHIRT  I know I haven't been around lately,  
HIS LIFE COMPLETE. HE NEEDS  THE SHIRT  but The Observer keeps me busy  
TWO TICKETS. MEG"4707  to say the very least.  
I need two Stanford GA's BAD!!  Don't let boilermaker fans (if there  I just wanted to say "HELLO" ! !  
Parents will take back tuition  are any) have your Purdue  NO, I haven't forgotten ya'll. ! ! !  
if I don't come through!!!!!!!!  STUDS!  HELP! HELP! HELP!  
Call Mike X3506  Sell them to me! X 4012  Need Student and GA's to Air  HELP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  NEED PURDUE TICKETS:  
Force. Call Aaron at 3264.  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE  2 GA'S AND 8 STUDENT TIX  
PURDUE GAME. MY LONELY  CALL JILL AT 288-0597  Washington, DC Club Memebers!!  
HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME  I NEED PURDUE GA'S!  PARENTS WON'T COME VISIT  There will be a bus for October  
BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S  CALL ERIN X3425  I Need STANFORD and MIAMI tix,  ME UNLESS THEY GET  break. The bus will run October 20  
CALL 273-1364  student or GA's. Please call Betsy  TICKETS!!!!!!!!!!!!!'!!  and return October 27. Both trips  
at 4858.  I need 2 GA's and 2 stud. tixs for  will be at 11 PM. The cost will be  
Purdue. Call Shannon at 271-9260  $100. Questions? Call Tom  
NEED MIAMI TICKETS????  NEED TENNESSEE -NO  Conaghan x1189.  
TICKETS WILL SWAP PENN  
ME TOO  STATE FOR THEM. CALL 216­ &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&  
877-6042.  I NEED MIAMI STUDS/GAS !  The wait is almost over! At  Need Miami Tix  
4 STUDENT TICKETS for Miami  PLEASE CALL 2546 OR 3028  midnight tonight, Pete Meringolo  Call Dave 1862  
fans that need humbling.  I NEED STANFORD & MIAMI  gives 21 reasons why NO will beat  
STUD TIXS -LISA X3882  Purdue tomorrow.  
272-8954 Amy  FATHER GRADUATED NO 48  THANK YOU, ST. JUDE.  
YEARS AGO AND HAS NEVER  M.J.  
BEEN BACK. NEED 4 GA'S FOR  NEEDED: 4 AIR FORCE GAs or  HAVE 2 PURDUE, 2 A. F., 2  
PURDUE GAME. CALL  STUDS. FOR SALE: Stanford  STANFORD G.A.'S. WANT 2  THE PLAGUE IS HERE .  
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S  COLLECT  Stud. Michelle x4071  PENN. ST. G.A.'S. CALL NICK OR  WATCH OUT!!!!!!!!!  
CALL ALEX X1068  (404) 640-0464 BOB LYNCH.  TRACEY X7733.  THE COFFEHOUSE AT GRACE  
presents SONG &DANCE NIGHT  
8:30 HEATHER FINLEY AND  
New York Attorney needs Stanford  i Have Penn St. Students  FOR SALE  JEFF BRAY  
GAs. Will pay big $$$  best offer 273-1364  Need 4 Air Force & Stanford.  JUNIOR SCRAMBLE  10:00 MO SHEAMUSIN  
Call Paul at 201-334-3804 or  Call Sprout, 287-9670  4 PURDUE GA'S  Friday September 28, 1990  (FORMER- 
Nancy at 277-2942.  Haggar Terrace 7-10pm  LY THE WORLD TOUR BAND)  
best offer, call x4500  All SMC/ND Juniors invited  "FOR IRISH MUSIC & DANCIN'"  
for food, folks and fun !I!  BRING FRIENDS.PARENTS, !!!!!!  
4 Miami GA's together for sale best  Need GA/STUDS lor Purdue,  Contact any Junior Rep. for tickets  FRIDAYFRIDAY,SEP 28, 8:30  
I NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE!!  offer by 10/5  Stanford, Air Force. Call Mike  SALE 1 PURDUE STUD TIX  or get them in the Hall Lobbies  
CALL KATHLEEN AT 4081  271-8795  234-2728 BEFORE 11 PM  from 4-7 W-F!!  
call 273-1364  see CLASS I page 24  

Friday, September 28, 1990 page 19 
Scoreboard 
BASEBALL STANDINGS 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 
AMEIICAN LEAGUE 
EaetDMiion 

w L Ptt (JI LID Slreek 
Boston 84 72 .538 4-6 Won2
Rank Record Prev. Next opponent Date Toronto 84 72 .538 z-6-4 Lost2 Rank Lost2Detroit 75 81 .481 9 z-6-4
1. NolnlDIUIIe 1 Purdue Friday, September 28
240 29Sep 
z-7-3

Men's and women's crou country host NATIONAL Cleveland 74 83 .471 10112 Lost2
2. Florida State 3-0-0 2 Virginia Tech 29Sep 7-3 Wont
B~imore 72 83 .465 11112
Aubum CATHOLIC INVITATIONAL. 213'4 p.m.
3. 240 115 Tennessee
3 29Sep Milwaukee 71 85 .455 13 2-8 loa! I
4. Brigham Young 440 4 at Oregon 29Sep Women's volleyball vs. PENN STATE, 7:30p.m. New York 84 92 .410 20 4-6 Won2
5. Tennessee 3-0-1 6 at 113 Auburn 29Sep 6. Michigan 1-1-() 7 Maryland 29Sep 
w.tDlvlelon Ptt LIO
7. 
Virginia 440 10 William and Mary 29Sep Men'!I soccer at Indiana. 7:30p.m. w L Cll ......

8. 
Nebraska 3-0-0 8 Oregon State 29Sep loa! I

Women's soccer at Indiana. 5 p.m. x-Oakland 1111 57 .835 z-5-5

9. 
Oklahoma 3-0-0 11 Kansas 29Sep z-7-3 Won2


Chicago Ill 65 .583 810. Miani (FL) 1·1-0 9 Iowa 29Sep Texas 82 74 .526 17 z-5-5 Won2
11. 
TaxasA&M 3-0-0 12 at Louisiana State 29Sep 


California 77 78 .497 21 112 z-3-7 Loa! I
12. 
Washington 3-0-0 21 at 1120 Colorado 29Sep Wont

Seattle 75 81 .481 24 z-4-813. Houston 240 14 Rica 29Sep14. Illinois 2-1-0 15 Saturday, September 211 Kansas CHy 72 83 .465 28112 z-5-5 Lost2 1115 Ohio State 60d Women's volleyball vs. MIAMI (OHIO), 7:30p.m. Minnesota 71 85 .-455 28 5-5 lost!
15. Ohio State 240 16 II8 Southam Cal 29Sep16. Arizona 3-0-0 18 at UCLA 29Sep 
FootbaD vs. PURDUE, 12:10 p.rn NATIONAL LEAGUE
17. Florida 3-0-0 19 MIssissippi State 29Sep e-tDlvlelon
18. Southern Cal 2-1-0 5 at 1115 Ohio State 29Sep Ptt (JI LID Slreek
w L
19. Clemson 3-1-0 17 Duke 29Sep Pittsburgh 91 65 .563 7-3 Won4 
20. Colorado 2-1-1 20 1112 Washington 29Sep 3 Won3
New York 88 68 .584 5-5 
21. 
Arizona State 240 


23 at Missouri 29Sep Sunday, September 30 Montreal 81 75 .519 10 z-3-7 lost 7 
22. 
Michigan State 0-1·1 24 at Rutgers 29Sep 

Philadelphia 74 82 .474 17 z-7-3 Wont 
23. 
Arkansas 1-1-0 13 Colorado State 29Sep Women's soccer at LoulsvRie, 1 p.m. Chicago 73 83 .468 18 z-3-7 Lost3 

24. 
Fresno State 440 at FuUerton State 29Sep 70 86 .449 21 4-6 lost!

St. louis25. South Carolina 340 at Georgia Tech 29Sep 

Men'S soccer at Wisconsin, 2 p.m. Weet Dlvlelon w L 
Ptt (JI LlO Streak 

Cincinnati 89 67 .571 6-4 Won2
LEAGUE LEADERS Lost!
Los Angeles 84 72 .538 5 z-7-3 6-4 Won4San Francleeo 81 75 .519 8 Houston 71
Based on 429 at Bats. 85 .455 18 4-6 Wont AMEIICAN LEAGUE San Diego 71 85 .455 18 z-2-6 lost a Pl:t. PARSEGIIAN LEAGUE Lost2
G NJ R H Atlanta 63 93 .404 26 4-6 BrettKC 140 540 82 178 .330 Grace VB. Olf-carrpus, 1 :00, South Stepan x-cQnched division tnle Plmero Tex 148 573 72 186 .325 z-danotes first game was a win RHdsnOak 132 474 115 154 
.325 Dillon VB. Flanner, 1:00, North Stepan Trammell Det 
144 552 70 169 .308 
AMEIICAN LEAGUE Boggs Bsn 149 596 85 181 .304 Wedrwedey'a Gemee EMartinez Sea 143 486 70 146 .300 New York 4, B~lroore 2
tn .300

GrfyJr Sea 153 590 89 Boston 7, Cleveland 2 CJarnes Cia 136 511 60 153 .299 Saat!le 8, Detro~ 4
LEAHY LEAGUE
Burks Bsn 148 564 86 168 .298 Chicago 3, Minnesota 1 Puckett Min 142 534 82 159 .298 Cavanaugh VB. Alumni, 2:00, South Stapan Oakland 3, Kansas CHy 2 
Milwaukee 6, Toronto 0 Home!Uw Texas 6, CalHornia 2 Keenan vs. Stanford, 2:00. North Stapan 
Fielder, Detroit, 49; McGwlre, Oakland, 39; JCanseco, Oakland, 37; McGriff, Toronto, 34; Gruber, 
n.ndey'• Genwe 

Toronto, 30; RHenderson, Oakland, 28; BJackson, Kansas CHy, 27; Deer, Milwaukee, 27. 
Late Ganne Not Included Ba"lmore 5, Cleveland 3 lbw Betled In ROCKNE LEAGUE Boston 3, Detroit 2 
Fielder, Detroit, 127; Gruber, Toronto, 113; McGwlre, Oakland, 108; JCanseco, Oakland, 95; Sierra, Chicago 6, MKwaukee 4 Texas, 95; DParker, Milwaukee, 92; Maldonado, Cleveland, 90; Palmeiro, Texas, 89; Trannmell, Fisher vs. Canroll, 3:00, South Stepan Texas 8, Oakland 6 Detroit, 89. Sorln vs. St. Ed's, 3:00, North Stepan Kansas CHy at CaiKomla, (n) Only games scheduled Pitcl'ing (14 Declliona) Friday'• ca.n-
Welch, Oakland, 26-6, .813; BJones, Chicago, 11-3, .786; Clemens, Boston, 20-6, .769; RRobinson, Toronto (Stieb 18-6) at Boston (Boddidlar 16-6), 7:35 p.rnMilwaukee, 12-4, .750; Stieb, Toronto, 18-e, .750; King, Chicago, 11-4, .733; CFinley, CalKornia, 18-8, Ba~imore (McDonald 7·5) at Cleveland (S.Valdez 5-5), 7:35 p.m . . 692; Stewart, Oakland, 22·10, .688; Wells, Toronto, 11-5, .688. Minnesota (Anderson 7·17) at Detroh (Morris 13-18), 7:35p.m.
MAGIC NUMBERS Seattle (R.Johnson 13-10)) at Chicago (Fernandez 5-3), 8:05p.m. New York (Adkins 0-1) at Milwaukee (Higuera 10-9), 8:35p.m.
lbw 
Oailland (Moore 12-14) at Texas (Hough 12-11), 8:35p.m
RHendarson, Oakland, 115; Fielder, Detro~. 101; Yount, Milwaukee, 98; Franco, Texas, 95; Kansas CHy (Farr 12·7) at CaiHornla (Finley 18-8). 10:35 p.m.
Reynolds, Seattle, 95. ALEeat 
m No Saturday'• Gemee Minnesota at Detron, 1:15 p.m.
ltta Boston 6 6 Ba~lmora at Cleveland, 1:35 p.m.
Palmeiro, Texas, 186; Boggs, Boston, 181; Brett. Kansas CHy, 178; GritfeyJr, Seattle, 1n; DParker. Toronto 6 6 New York at Milwaukee, 2:35p.m.
Milwaukee. 176; Kelly, New York, 176. 
Toronto at Boston, 320 p.m.
NLE.Mt 
Seattle at Chicago, 8:05 p.m.
Doublee m No Brett, Kansas CHy, 45; Boggs, Boston, 43; Calderon, Chicago, 43; JoReed, Boston, 43; Ha1p9r, Pittsburgh 6 4 Oakland at Texas, 8:35p.m. 
Kansas CHy at CalHomla, 10:05 p.rn
Minnesota. 41. 
Sunday'• Gemee

loi..Weet 
Toronto at Boston, 1:35 p.m.
Tf111ee m No 
B~imora at Cleveland, 1:35 p.m. Chicago, 8. 
TFarnandaz, Toromo, 17; Sosa. Chicago, 10; llrlano, Minnesota. 9; Burks, Boston, 8; Uohnson, Cincinnati 6 2 
Minnesota at Detro", 1:35 p.m. NOTE: The magic nurrber Ia derived by adding 
Seattle at Chicago, 2:35 p.m. Slolenlle-one to the nurrber of remaining gannes and 
New York at Milwaukee, 2:35 p.rn RHendarson, Oakland, 63; Kelly, New York, 40; Pettis, Texas, 37; Sax, New York, 37; Cole, subtracting the nurrber of games ahead in the loss Oakland at Texas, 3:05p.m. Cleveland, 36; LJohnson, Chicago, 36. column from the second-p'aca team 
Kansas CHy at CaiHornia, 4:05p.m. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Ryan, Texas, 221; BWitt, Texas, 215; Clemens, Boston, 204; Hanson, Seattle, 204; langston, TRANSACTIONS n.ndey'e Game• Callomia, 190. 
Sd<eoula 
Cincinnati 4, Atlanta 2 New York 6, Montreal 0 
PhHadelphla 4, St. Louis 3
Saves BASEBAU.
Thigpen, Chicago, 55; Etllersley, Oakland, 45; DJones, Cleveland, 41; Olson, B~irnora, 35; Righetti, Pittsburgh 3, Chicago 2 New York, 35. Only games scheduled
American League TE)(AS RANGERS-Announced the resignation Friday'• a.r.e
of ' .~a Stone, president, effective Nov. 30. 
San Diego (Hurst 10-9) at Cincinnati (Jatllson 6-e), 7:35p.m . 
•ew York-Penn league PhNadefphia (GrirrAiey 2-2) at Montreal (Boyd 10-5), 7:35p.m.
NEW YORK-PENN LEAGUE-Re-elected lao Chicago (Maddux 14-14) at New York (Gooden I H), 7:35p.m.
Pinckney, president, to a two-year temn.
Based on 429 at Bats. Atlanta (Marak 1-2) at Houston (Darwin 11-4), 8:35p.m. 
BASKElBALL
NATIONAL LEAGUE Pittsburgh (Smiley 9-10) at St. Louie (HIM 5-4), 8:35 p.rn 
,...,., llllekebol AModMion 
G AB R H Pd. Los Angeles (Cook 9-3) at San Francisco (Burkett 14-7) 10:35 p m 
HOUSTON ROCKETS-Acquired Kenny S~h Saturday'• Gemee • . •McGee Sll 125 501 76 168 .335 
and Roy Marlble, guards, from the Atlanta Hawks
Dykstra Phi 145 574 103 186 .324 Chicago at New York, 1:35 p.m.
for Tim McCormldl, center, and John Lucas, guard.
Magadan NY 138 428 71 139 .324 Pittsburgh at St. louis, 2:15p.m. 
LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS-Signed Cedric Ball,
Murray LA 149 534 93 173 .324 Atlanta at Houston, 2:35 p.m.
forward.
Dawson Chi 142 511 69 162 .317 San Diego at Cincinnati, 320 p.m.
MIAMI HEAT-51gned WUNe Burton, guard­
Grace Chi 151 569 71 178 .313 Los Angeles at San Francisco, 3:35p.m. 
forward, to a five-year contract. 
TGwynn SO 141 573 80 tn .309 PhNadelphla at Montreal, 7:35 p.m.
C""*-tetBMkeblll Aeeocleton
RobertsSD 144 546 102 168 .308 Sunday'• Gemee
LACROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed Kenny Travis,
Bonds Pl 147 507 103 154 .304 Philadelphia at Montreal, 1:35 p.m.
guard.
Butler SF 154 599 99 182 .304 Chicago at New York, 1:35 p.m.
SAN JOSE JAMMERS-Acquired Jay Burson,
loS~hAU 130 447 68 136 .304 San Diego at Cincinnati, 2:15 p.m. 
guard, from the Colurrbus Horizon, for a 1991
Sandberg Chi 151 601 114 183 .304 Pittsburgh at St. louie, 2:15p.m. 
second-round draft choice and a player to be Atlanta at Houston, 2:35 p.m.
named later.
HomeRI.na Los Angeles at San Francisco, 3:35p.m. 
FOOlBALL
Sandberg, Chicago, 38; Strawberry, New York, 37; M"chell, San Francisco, 35; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 
Nrior\111 Foo.,.l I..Mgue
33; MaWilllanns, San Francisco, 33; BoniUa. Pittsburgh, 32; Gam, Atlanta. 31; Justice, Atlanta. 28. 
BUFFALO BILLS-Signed Kim PhHips, cornerback.
IUw llaHad In 
DETROIT LIONS-Signed Jadlle CNne,MaWHHams, San Francisco, 119; Bonilla. Pittsburgh, 117; Jcarter, San Diego, 114; Bonds, deianslw end. Placed Marc Spindler, defensive 
Pittsburgh, 113; Strawberry, New York, 108; Dawson, Chicago, 96; Sandberg, Chicago, 96; Wallach, end, on injured reserve. USA TODAY SUPER 25 PREP TEAMS Montreal, 95. 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Signed Terrence Flagler, running back, and Jeroy Robinson,
Pitching (14 Dec:lalona) 
ilnabactler. Placed Ron WoHiey, running back, onDrabek, Pittsburgh, 21-e•.ne; RMartinez, Los Angeles, 19-6, .760; Gooden, New York, 18-6, .750; 
Injured reserve. Waived David Bavaro, Hnabacker.
Tudor, Stlouis, 12-4, .750; Darwin, Houston, 11-4, .733; Boyd, Montreat, 10-5, .667; Burkett, San Flori< School S1Mt Rocon:l lhlaw.ek
SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Signed Michael Francisco, 14-7, .667; Harkey, Chicago, 12-6, .667; Rijo, Cincinnati, 14-7, .667. 
Brooks, defensive back. Placed Joe Phillips, nose 1 Lawton Oklahoma 4-D Edmond, OKtackle, on the reserve non-football injury list. 
IU-. 
2 Hazelwood East Missouri 4-0 at PattonvilleSandberg, Chicago, 114; Bonilla. Pittsburgh, 110; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 103; Dykstra. Philadelphia. SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Ra-signed Kevin 3 East St. Louis Illinois 4-0 at GranleCly
1 03; Gant, Manta. 103. Lewis, cornerback. Placed Pete Kugler, detanslva 4 Brockton Mass. 2-0 at 11 Hyattsville, MD DeMathalineman, on Injured reserve. 
5 Ft. lauderdale Dillard Florida 2-0 at Coconut CreakHOCKEY
ltta 6 Houston Aldlne Tex• 3-0 at Kingwood
Dykstra. Philadelphia, 186; Larkin. Cincinnati, 163; Sandberg, Chicago, 163; Butler. San Francisco, Netlonel Hoc:Uy League 7 Hyat!Svllle DeMatha Maryland 3-0 114 Brockton, MA 
182; Wallach, Montreat, 179. NHL-Fined the Minnesota North Stars $10,000 8 Fontana CaU!omla 3-0 at Colonand suspended Mark Tinordl, Minnesota 9 Rodtlngham N. Carolina 4-0 at lumbertondefansaman, for 10 games for lighting during a
Doublee 
10 La Grange Georgia 3-0 at McDonough Henry Cly.
Jefferies, New York, 39; Bonlla. Plttaburgh, 38; Sabo, Clncinnat~ 38; HJohnson, New York, 37; game on Sept. 26. 
11 Elizabeth N. Jersey 2-0 KearnyRoberts, San Diego, 36; Walach, Montreat, 36. MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Released 12 Louisville TrinHy Kentucky 4-0 louisville St. XavierMichelle Valliere, g~ander, and Paul Marshall, 
13 Mobile Murphy Alabama 3-0 Mobile McGill
defenseman. Returned Warren Babe, center, and
Tr1*e 14 Archbishop Shaw louisiana 4-0 at Marrero John Ehllll
Duncan, Cincinnati, 11; TGwynn, San Diego, 10; Coleman, St. Louie, 9; Butler, San Francisco, 8; Dan Keczrrer, defensaman, to Kalamazoo of the 15 Cleveland St. Ignatius Ohio 5-0 at Panma Heights Valley Forge
Dunston, Chicago, 8; loSmlth, Atlanta. 8. international Hod<ey League. 16 Pensacola Washington Florida 3-0 at Panama City MosleyST. LOUIS BLUES-Sent Tony Twist and Jason 
17 Upper St. Clair Penn. 3-0-1 Uniontown
Ruff, left wings, to Peoria of the International
Stolen Be-18 los Angeles Carson California 2-0 at Rialto Elsen'­
Coleman, St.Louis, n; Yeldlng, Houston, 61; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 51; Nixon, Montreal, 47; Buller, Hockey League. 
19 Detroit King Michigan 4-0 Detro" Denby
San Francisco, 45; Raln98, Montreat, 45; Roberta, San Diego, 45. SOCCER 20 Harrpton Virginia 3-0 Newport News Warwldl
Nrior\111 Proleelllcx-.1 Soccer League 
21 Chicago Moum Carmel lllinole 4-0 Chicago Gordon TechDETROIT ROCKERS-Signed ~
Sd<eoula 
22 Kent Kentwood Wash. 3-0 at Federal Way T. ~ 
Cone, New York, 221; RMartlnaz, Los Angeles, 220; Gooden, New York, 208; Fernandez, New York, Dragvlcevlch, defender, and Manny Sanchez, •
23 Carmel Indiana 5-0 M uncle South
go~ender.
178; Viola. New York, 172. 
24 Ch'tt'n'ga Red Bani< Tennessee 4-0 at Cleveland Bradley Central 
COLLEGE 
25 Greenwood S. Carolina 5-0 West ColuiTbia Airport 
EAST TEXAS STATE-Named Ed Davidson Franco, New York, 33; Myers, Cinclnnat~ 30; leSmlth, St. Louis, 27; DaSrnlth, Houston, 23; Lefferts, equipment manager. San Diego, 23. IONA-Named Lloyd Robinson water polo coach. 
Savee 
---~---------------------------------------­
~ 

I 
Friday, September 28, 1990page 20 The Observer 
The Irish, on the other band, devoted than we have been in have amassed 31 goals on 190 the past. We realize that this is 

Women 
shots, while notching 20 as­an important part of our lives, continued from page 28 sists. Notre Dame also has a and we must give 100% as long apiece, with the Irish winning 45-22 edge in corner kicks at­as we play. 
4-1 last year at Moose Krause tempted. In fact, the Irish have "It's difficult when the level of Stadium. Indiana downed the dominated their opponents in competition fluctuates, though. Irish 2-0 in Bloomington in most statistical categories. It really is hard to play a team 
1988. On the other band, One significant category is like Marquette and then play a team that is maybe not on theLouisville topped the Irish 1-0 the goals-against-average, 
same level and still accomplish

at Notre Dame last year in the where sophomore keepers 
what we need to each day." 

rrrst-ever varsity-level meeting Michelle Lodyga and Cara Lewis 
On offense, the Irish are

between the two teams. sit atop a pleasant 1.39 GAA. 
coming off of a record-setting

"Indiana is a very recogniz­"If you look at the defensive able soccer name because of side of things, the kids in the 
59 shot demolition of I.U.S.B. the success which their men's back have been playing very Yet considering the character 
program has enjoyed," ex­hard and very smart," said of this Notre Dame team, that plained coach Petrucelli. "I'm Petrucelli. "But every once in a shot total should come as no not looking forward to playing while, especially early in the surprise. them at their place because game, we just tend to have "We spent all day Tuesday 
they are very experienced." some lapses. It seems that workin~ on shootin~," contin­Meanwhile, the Irish will have when we make a mistake in the ued Petrucelli. "We worked on 
their bands full with 1-7 back, the other team scores. taking chances when we have Louisville. The squad from For the most part, I'm happy them. I thought that we held Kentucky has lost 2-0 to with the backfield. It's only the ball too much against 
Dayton, 4-1 to Xavier, and 2-0 been a few lapses that have Marquette. I also think that be­to Wright State-all of which cost us goals. cause our work on shooting in are ranked in the Top 10 of the "A lot of our defensive break­
practice is the reason why we Central region. downs have to do with the set that record. These kids just 
"Louisville has been strug­youth of the players, but they do everything you ask of them. gling with winning games are starting to mature. We will "Of course, it's also very im­lately," said Petrucelli. "They be much better-we are already portant to realize that not just don't have many wins, but they much better than we were the one person has carried our of­play a very tough schedule. You first day of the season. I only fense. There are five people shouldn't just look at their see us getting better." scoring goals for us. Before the record-they are a much better Added Molly Lennon: "We're season, everybody thought that team than their record shows. definitely moving upward. they could stop us by stopping 
They have really changed their We're much better players and Susie, but that isn't true. early-season trend of scoring a much better team, because Nobody bas stopped her yet, lots of goals. But going into we're improving every day. and everybody else is scoring games like this, our biggest op­We're more serious and more anyways." ponent is ourself. If we play to our abilities, we should win 
ChlneM-Amerlcan

these games." 
Restaurant & 

~ • PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS
Keys to the Notre Dame 
Cocktail Lounge cause this weekend include con­Authentic Szechuan, sistent play of the defense and Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
a productive offense. So far 
ROCCO'S STVLf SHOP

Lunches starting at----$3.45
this season, the Irish have held 
aanquet rooms 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST.

Dinners starting at----$5.45
their opponents to a mere 13 
APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN

~vailable for u~
goals on 50 shots. 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
to 200
Additionally, only four of the L..!!"!'!'!!'~_.-..1 lion. · Thu,.. 11:30 a.m. lo 10 p.m. Fri. -Sal. 11:30 am. lo 11 p.m. 272-7378 Sun. I Holidays11:30 a.m. lo 10p.m. 
scores surrendered by the 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING
130 Dixie Way S., South Band (next to Randall's Inn)
Notre Dame defensive unit have 
CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR
come in the second half of pla~. 

October 2 Tuesday 

OCTOBER 1-5 
12:00 -1:00 P.M. 8:00
I.S.O. LOUNGE Theodore's
2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE 

I \ 
Prof~1aua 
Discussion ofrM Middl~ Ea.rr 
JEWTJEffi 1r AITWMJEW 1T 
falhe~amble 
R~utimu on Au.walia 
®liD Uib®

Pro'f~~~sd:/ellis
Reflecn·on.s 011 Li\'utg Abroad 
~ 
({)2lU&]])

Professor Doris 

African PhUos('{'hy and the Circular Frame ofReference 
Erulll 
OCTOBER l-5

Professor Phelps 
St>xism and the l...aw 
4:30 6:00 P.l\1. FIELDHOUSE MALL 

~QIJ[blj(ill~~ John Kennedy Live Irish Band 
' 
ON THE QUAD 
Thur.;day
'I 
lj 
October 4, 1990 8:00P.M.
OCTOBER 1-5 
Theodore"s 
Dance Lessons
12:00-1:00 P.M. FIEL[)HOUSE MALL 
Taste of Nations 
Saturday October 6, 1990 
9:00 P.M. -I :00 A.M. South Dining Hall 
WE BRING YOU THE WORLD FOR FREE! 
oponoo<ed 1>V 1Ht MULTICIIUUIAL EXICUTM COUNCD. 

l. 
' 


Friday, September 28, 1990 


Sox beat Tigers, tie Jays in AL East 
DETROIT (AP)-The Boston White Sox set a major league 
Red Sox withstood Cecil mark of 65 saves. Frank 
Fielder's 49th home run of the Thomas' sixth home run of 
season and pulled even with the season snapped a 4-4 tie in the 
idle Toronto Blue Jays atop the third inning. It came off Tom 
American League East by de­Edens (5-3), who relieved Kevin 
feating the Detroit Tigers 3-2 Brown in the second inning, 
Thursday night. and extended Thomas' hitting
Tom Bolton, knocked out in streak to 10 games. 
the second inning of his previ­The White Sox won 11 of the 
ous start, held Detroit to an 12 games with Milwaukee this 
unearned run and four hits in season. They added a run orr 
seven innings and Mike Edens in the sixth on consecu­
Greenwell hit a two-run double tive singles by Ron Karkovice, 
in Boston's three-run fourth. Robin Ventura and Scott 
With six games remaining in Fletcher. 
the regular season, the Red Sox The former major league 
and Blue Jays have 84-72 record of 64 saves in a season 
records. They begin a three­was set by the Oakland 
game series in Boston on Athletics in 1988. 
Friday night. Orioles 5, Indians 3 
Bolton (10-5) struck out five CLEVELAND-Dave Johnson 
and walked one. Dennis Lamp won on the road for the first 
started the eighth for Boston time since July 28 and Gregg 
and surrendered Fielder's home Olson set a club record with his 
run into the first row of the 35th save. Johnson (13-8), 
upper deck in left field. Baltimore's winningest pitcher, 
Rob Murphy came on and yielded two runs and eight hits 
walked the only batter he faced over eight innings, including 
but Jeff Gray got the final out Joel Skinner's home run. Olson 
in the eighth. Jeff Reardon got gave up a run and three hits in 
the final two outs of the game the ninth and broke the mark 
for his 19th save and first since of 34 saves set by Don Aase in 
July 20. 1986. 
The Red Sox scored all their John Farrell (4-5) was the runs in the fourth inning, chas­loser in his second start after ing Detroit starter Steve Searcy spending almost three months (2-7). Carlos Quintana singled, on the disabled list because of ,Dwight Evans doubled and Ellis tendinitis in his right elbow. He Burks had an infield single to yielded four runs and seven hits load the bases for Greenwell, in 4 1-3 innings, including Mike who hit a two-run double. Devereaux's 11th home run in Burks scored on a sacrifice fly the third inning and consecutive by Tom Brunansky. RBI singles by Leo Gomez, Billy White Sox 6, Brewers 4 Ripken and Steve Finley in the 
CHICAGO-Bobby Thigpen fifth. 
extended his record to 55 saves Rangers 8, Athletics 6 
with one perfect inning and the ARLINGTON, Texas-Rookie 
Scott Chiamparino earned his first major league win against the team that let him go. Chiamparino (1-2), who came to Texas from Oakland last month in the Harold Baines trade, yielded four runs and seven hits in seven innings. 
The Rangers had scored only three runs for Chiamparino in 24 1-3 innings but raked Scott Sanderson (17 -11) for eight runs in three innings. Jack Daugherty and Pete Incaviglia hit consecutive homers in the Rangers' five-run first. Rickey Henderson and Jamie Quirk homered for Oakland. 
Reds 4, Braves 2 
CINCINNATI-The Cincinnati Reds reduced their magic num­ber for winning the National League West to two Thursday night by beating the Atlanta Braves 4-2 on Glenn Braggs' two-run homer. 
The Reds' sixth victory in seven games opened their lead in the West to five games over idle Los Angeles with six to play. 

Cincinnati was handcuffed on four hits through five innings by Steve Avery (3-10), who was protecting a 2-1 lead while pitching with a blister on his hand. But the rookie walked Eric Davis to open the Reds sixth, and Braggs hit the next pitch over the left-center wall for his sixth homer. 
Tom Browning (15-9) settled down after pitching erratically in the first three innings. The left-bander allowed seven hits -all in the first three innings -and struck out two in seven innings. Browning improved to 12-3 lifetime against Atlanta. Rob Dibble pitched two innings for his 11th save. 
Pirates 3, Cubs 2 
PITTSBURGH-Pittsburgh reduced its magic number to four as rookie left-bander Randy Tomlin survived a shaky start and Sid Bream hit a tie­breaking double in the sixth in­ning to lead the Pirates past the Chicago. 
Andy Van Slyke added a run­scoring double and Bobby Bonilla drove in his 117th run as the Pirates swept the three­game series. The Pirates have won seven of their last eight. 
The Pirates, nearing what would be their first National League East title in 11 years, finished 14-4 against the Cubs. Pittsburgh plays three weekend games in St. Louis, then finish the season at home with three games against the second-place Mets. 
Mets 6, Expos 0 
MONTREAL-New York stayed three games behind Pittsburgh as Ron Darling turned in his second straight solid start to help the Mets beat Montreal. 







WELCOME BACK!! 
Alumni and Fans 
we·n be open on
FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS 

FRIDAY 9-2 am and
A SUMMER STUDENT NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION 

SATURDAY 1/2 hour after the game •til2 am 
HOSPITALS 

Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo 

Medical Center for the summer. 

Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and 
NOTRE DAME Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
GOLF SHOP You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate 
"ON THE CURVE" IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in operating rooms. Application Deadline: 
FOOTBALL WEEKEND SHOP HOURS Benefits include: December 1' 1990 
• Hourly salary of $8.45 
FRIDAY 6:30AM-5:00PM 
• Differentials of $.50/hour for evenings, 
SATURDAY 6:00AM UNTIL ONE HOUR BEFORE GAME 
$ .60/hour for nights 
SUNDAY 6:00AM-4:00PM 
• 
Subsidized apartment living 

• 
Orientation, tours, discussion groups 


SHIRTS SWEATERS BALLS UMBRELLAS HEADWEAR
For more information contact: 
Ct9J 
JACKETS HEADCOVERS CLUBS EQUIPMENTMayo Medical Center Nursing Recruitment 
ENJOY FINE GOLF CWTHING AND EQUIPMENT WITH 
P.O. Box 6057 
Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 

EXCLUSIVE NOTRE DAME WGOS 
1 800-247-8590 1-507-255-4314 

AVAILABLE ONLY ATTHENOTREDAMEGOLFSHOP 
An Affirmative Action/fqual Opportunity Employer 

-----~---~--------------------------------------­

Mike O'Connor agreed with his coach, and also expressed con­fidence in the team's ability to capture the title again. 
"BC is one of the better teams in the country," said O'Connor. "They're a whole different team than last year-they're a lot better. But we should definitely be in the hunt to win the meet. We have the ability to repeat." 
The outcome of the meet may be affected by injuries to two key members of the Irish squad. J.T. Burke, who took seventh in this meet last year, is recovering from a summer ill­ness and has yet to compete this season. Mike O'Connor, last year's top finisher for the I I Irish, is suffering from a sore 
11 hip flexor and was unable to 
practice for several days. He is, however, definitelor the meet, and it is unknown whether his injury will have any effect on his racing. 
This meet is an important one for the Irish, who are focused on their season goal of compet­ing in the NCAA tournament. Both Piane and O'Connor were pleased with the team's current ranking , and believed that the team should climb a few notches should the Irish win today's tournament. 
"It {the ranking) is pretty good for this time in the sea­son," said O'Connor. "It shows the country that we have the strength to get to Nationals and do some damage when we get there." 

Cahill 
continued from page 28 
you want to do well."' 
This ethic has worked for Cahill, who finished third for the Irish in their first meet of the season against Georgetown. But despite his strong finish, his season goals are focused on the team's rather than just his own improvement. 
"Last year was real disap­pointing," explained Cahill. "We were doing well all season and everyone expected us to go far. 
We didn't even make it to the NCAA's. I want to run the best I can to help the team make it to the NCAA's this year. Every meet until then is just a step to that final goal. 
"We have the team and the people to make it to NCAA's, and once we're there, we have the abllity to do well. And if the team does well, I'll do well." 

The Obserwr 1 David lee 



FREE 
VIP BLUE AND GOLD CARDS 
TO:First 200 students (with I.D.) attending Notre Dame I Wichita State Baseball Game at Covaleski Stadium on Friday, October 5th at 8:30 pm. 
TO:First 200 students (with I.D.) attending the Notre Dame I LSU volleyball game at the JACC on Saturday, October 6th at 7:30pm. 
® 

MAXWELL HOUSE COFFEE VIP BLUE AND GOLD CARDS 
All benefits of a regular Blue and Gold Card holder (except the three drawings for athletic tickets) 
Free Maxwell House ~ Coffee I Notre Dame14 oz.coffee mug 
Free Maxwell House ~ coffee at the Huddle during the month of November by showing VIP card and student I.D. 
® . 
Free Crystal Light at the Huddle during the month of April by showing VIP card and student I.D. 
Free drawings for VIP members only throughout the year for: Chicago Bulls Basketball Tickets Free Limo Service and Dinner at Eli's Place for Steak in Chicago One free round trip ticket to Spring Break 


COMMUNICATION & THEATRE ~ PRESENTS 



1\Al~~~ 
BY EURIPIDES 

WASHINGTON HALL LABORATORY THEATRE 
THURS., OCT. 4 8:10PM DIRECTOR FRIDAY. OCT. 5 8:10PM REGINALD BAIN SAT.. OCT. 6 8:10PM 
SET & LIGHTS 

SUN.. OCT. 7 3:10PM 
KEVIN DREYER WED.. OCT. 10 8:10PM COSTUMES
THURS.. OCT. 11 8:10PM RICHARD DONNELLY 
FRIDAY, OCT. 12 8:10PM SAT.• OcT. 13 8:10PM STAGE MANAGER SUN., OCT. 14 3:10PM TONY Bosco 
TICKETS: $5. $4 STU/SEN CIT, WED THU & SUN 
AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT 
LAFORTUNE TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARDNISA ORDERS CALL 239-8128 
Fl<.b_b. DruvtR( 

27(-8/13 
113 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
(IIJIIIIftfU 31 _.........,, 
6 Foot Party Subs Available 
For Tailgati~RDER NOW 

with purchase free &-pack of Pepsi 
1\~o FoR Da,vERY 
CATHOLICS 
VS. 
CONVICTS 
III 
T-Shirts and Neon Hats 
TAKE NO~-­


, ' .. , , r' ­

The Observer page 23 
Men's golf travels to Northern Invitational 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame men's golf team will travel to Purdue this weekend for the Northern Collegiate Invitational. 
Irish coach George Thomas says that the Northern Collegiates, like the rest of the fall schedule, will be used to evaluate players so they will have a good idea of who will be ready to contribute in the spring. 
"We're trying to give ev­erybody a chance," Thomas says. "The battles for the fourth, fifth and sixth posi­tions are real dogfights right now." 
Junior Mike O'Connell, who won the 36-hole Notre Dame Campus Golf Championship last weekend, and senior captain Paul Nolta are ex­pected to lead the Irish in this weekend's 54-hole tour­nament. 
Thomas anticipates that Big 10 schools Ohio State, Wisconsin and Indiana will be prime contenders in the tournament. Altogether 22 schools will participate in the Northern Intercollegiates, playing 18 holes on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. 
"Our purpose here is pri­marily to sort out the top seven players," Thomas says. 
Women at Michigan St. 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's golf squad resumes its schedule this weekend when it heads to East Lansing, Mich. for the Michigan State Spartan Invitational. 
In its third week of tournament competition last week the team finished ninth in the Illinois State Invitational held in Normal, Ill. Its two-day, 36-hole tally of 679 was 49 strokes behind tournament winner Northern Illinois's 630. The Irish shot 348 on the final 18, compared to a first-day total of 331. 
The Irish will be paced by sophomore Kathy Phares, who led all Notre Dame golfers with a two-day tally of 161 at Northern Illinois. That score earned her an eighth-place individual fin­ish. 
Other golfers expected to shoot well in the Spartan Invitational include senior Roberta Bryer (who shot a 170 at Northern Illinois), and freshmen Crissy Klein and Alicia Murray. 
Edmonton goalie suspended 
NEW YORK (AP) -Calling his conduct "dishonorable and against the welfare of the league," NHL president John Ziegler on Thursday suspended 
Edmonton  goaltender  Grant  
Fuhr  for  a  year  for  using  
drugs.  

But Ziegler also left the door open for an early reinstatement by Feb. 18, 1991, should the All-Star goaltender meet cer­tain conduct requirements. And the NHL president gave the Oilers a chance to challenge his decision. 
"This has indeed been a most sad case," Ziegler said in a prepared statement. "Mr. Fuhr has been an All-Star player for most of his career. He admits he has made a major mistake and is working hard to re­deem." 
In his statement, Ziegler said Fuhr used "cocaine, an illegal drug" for approximately six to seven years prior to August 1989. 
"This use was sporadic, sometimes 'bingeful,' but never at an addictive level." 
The time period of Fuhr's admitted substance abuse came while he was considered one of the world's best goaltenders, and while he was backstopping the Oilers to four Stanley Cups. 
He was not immediately available for (:omment. 
Ziegler also said he had proof that Fuhr had not used any il­legal drug "for over one year." 
"I have given consideration to the fact that he has been drug free for 12 months," Ziegler said. "I have given weight to the fact that he has come for­ward and is facing this matter head on." 
But Ziegler also said that he considered the long period of Fuhr's substance abuse. 
"His conduct went on for a period of six to seven years," Ziegler said. "It went on in spite of a clear league policy that if you use illegal drugs you will be suspended. 
"Mr. Fuhr's actions were in­tentional and were in defiance of this policy. He must suffer the consequences." 
Ziegler, however, also said that "the Oilers and Mr. Fuhr may apply for a commutation of this order by presenting a written application to the President of the NHL on or be­fore Feb. 1, 1991, but not prior to Jan. 15, 1991. 
"If it can be demonstrated to the President's satisfaction that Mr. Fuhr has, in the interim, conducted himself in a manner so as not to have caused dis­honor or prejudice to the league, the suspension will be lifted and he will be reinstated effective Feb. 18, 1991." 

SPORTS BRIEFS Student tickets and IDs will be checked very closely at Saturday's Notre Dame-Purdue football game, according to the ticket office. Each person using a student ticket must show his or her identification. If confiscated, the IDs and tickets will go directly to the Office of Student Affairs. 
WVFI 640 A.M. will broadcast tomorrow's Notre Dame/Purdue football game live at 12:10 p.m. Join Vic Lombardi, Hugh McGowan and Bob Ryan for all the commentary. 
St. Mary's College Varsity Softball will have a meeting in Angela Athletic Facility on Monday, Oct. 1 at 7 p.m. 
The Notre Dame Ski Club will have an informational meeting on Monday, Oct. 1st at 8 p.m. in Rm. 118 Nieuwland Science Building. The Christmas trip to Steamboat, CO, the racing team and other club activities will be discussed. If you have any questions or are interested but can't make the meeting, call Mike at 271-8901 or Bob at x3588. 
Bortt~9.!qtrY ,~t~Jena 


TRAIL RIDES 
11h Mi. south of Heston on Fail Rd. (200 E.). Turn on 850 N. 

srEAKSJilV 
PRIME RIB~ ~(~~
SEAFOOD ~JCf.L.) ~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday Brunch 100 Center-Mishawaka 219-259-9925 


Ourprimeribis 
gradedon thecurve. 
$11.95 perperson. Alot of restaurants may be able to get top-grade prime beef. But nobody can serve it up like Marriott. Our chefs have years of experience in turning choice cuts of beef into your favorite choices on the menu. Tender, juicy, full offlavor, 
and served with a fresh garden salad. All for just $11.95 . Once you give us a try, the results will be written all over your face. 

vour Hotel Name .t\\arriOft. 
Hotel address and phone number SOUTH BEND 
~arr1ott. 
Ill North Sc I<*Pf'! Sind. South lend, IndiAN 4tM1 (219) 114-2000 
f, 


-~ ~------------~ 
---.,........---.----~-----------------------'-"'!--_...--.... 
~­
. I• 
< ( 
[ Friday, September 28, 1990 
page 24 The Observer
'I 
I 
\

l I Red Sox vs. Blue Jays: It'll go down to the wire 
I BOSTON (AP)-One side "We're gonna fight and month, an advantage built with leaving the Blue Jays with a 2-for Friday's game, while the I promises to "fight and scratch and give it everything a 10-game winning streak that game lead. Red Sox hope to have third ,,,\ scratch... The other vows to we've got," said Boston's Mike started with three victories in Then, on June 25, the Red baseman Wade Boggs back. '\ "fight to the death." Greenwell. "If it's meant to be, Toronto. Sox' ended the Blue Jays' 15-Boggs had to leave early be­
Get ready for Toronto vs. it will happen." However, after a sweep uy game Boston winning streak cause of lower back pain in a 
Boston in a three-game week­"It's important for us to go Oakland and the loss of Roger and went on to a four-game game Tuesday night. II end series at Fenway Park that in and just fight, fight to the Clemens with shoulder tendini­series sweep and a 2 112-game Toronto's Dave Steib (18-6) could decide the winner of the death," said Toronto pitcher tis, the Red Sox went into a lead. and Boston's Mike Boddicker American League East. David Wells. "We can't let up." swoon. They lost 15 of 21 Then, after losing in Toronto (16-8) were named to open the 
With six games left in the "It's in our hands, what more games, falling 1 112 games be­on Aug. 23, Boston won the series. Steib is 1-0 with a 4.91 

season, this series has players can you ask for," Toronto hind Toronto. next three games to go from ERA in three starts against the 
from both teams talking about manager Cito Gaston said. "We Then, with just their fourth one game ahead to four games Red Sox this year. Boddicker is 
what could have been. And can't worry about it. victory in 12 games, a 3-2 deci­in front. 1-0 in one start against what might be. "I'm sure they would like to sion over Detroit Thursday, "Up and down," said Wilson. Toronto. "Everybody has to wait until be four games up and we'd like they pulled even with the Blue "First place for a day or a the very end," Toronto's to be four games up. It just Jays. week. They're there for a day Clemens (20-6), sidelined
l Mookie Wilson says. "The didn't happen that way. In your "We've been on a pretty good or a week. It was bound to since Sept. 4, is scheduled to go series might not decide any­wildest dreams, would you pic­roller coaster ride, haven't come down to this. It's just one Saturday against the Blue Jays' thing at all. If either of us had ture us to he in this situation?" we?" Reed asked. "We've been of those weird seasons, and no Jimmy Key (12-7). Boston's been consistent over a month, said Boston's Jody Reed. able to keep things in perspec­one knows why." Greg Harris and Toronto's Bud
!., we'd be ahead." "It's anybody's ballgame," tive. If we didn't, we could be The Blue Jays expect to have Black, recently acquired fromI The Blue Jays, smarting from Greenwell said."You couldn't buried right now." third baseman Kelly Gruber Cleveland, are Sunday's proba­two straight losses in ask for a better scenario-un­The Red Sox have dominated back from a bout with the flu ble pitchers. 

Sports Restaurant Lounge 
Milwaukee, were off Thursday, less we beat them three the Blue Jays so far this sea­while the Red Sox defeated straight and get this thing over son, leading the season series Detroit in a makeup resched­with." 8-2. uled because of last spring's The Red Sox led the Blue Jays The two rivals split two training camp shutdown. by 6 112 games early this games in Toronto June 19-20~ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ • 
CHARITY EVENT \ 
Class 
ll • Come out to Holy Cross • 
continued from page 18 
• Field TONIGHT from 4-7 • 
............................................ 
• with quarters in hand and • 
Here's what you'll find: HAPPY 20th to the hottest. most DOMINOS PIZZA unshy pool sharkette on this GINA'S PIZZA campus. Do you know how VIC'S SUBS precious you are? COCA-COLA 
• CULVER COVE RIBS&CHIX • • FREE WATERMELON FROM • •THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION • 

WAOR (95.3} RADIO • 
Hey Just-lise-As-In-Niece: • SEA MONKEY CONSPIRACY • We want to take this chance to say HPC-HOC 
Moooooooooo to Yooooooooou! • QUARTER SMORGASBORD • That means 19 heifers 
on your cake this yearl $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ May you receive many fresh dairy products on Sunday!!!!! 
''HAPPY BIRTHDAY" sdgf Love, 3 Aspiring 
'. 
f
I 
I 
\ 
~ I
l 
. 
Cheddarheads 

Valentines 
~\S 
0 

SNEAKERS (in University
ND 

Lanes) 

----~~~~~--~~­
Located in University Lanes-1602 N. Ironwood-233-BOWL (2695) 
GET TOP 
FOR YOUR 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKET 
1-800-733-8499 
ASK FOR PAUL 
ALL SALES CONFIDENTIAL 
BUY IT FOR "TilE CAUSE" 
*Five T.V.s 

* 
Basketball Shoot 

* 
Three Dart Boards *Pizzas/ Sandwiches/ Appetizers 

* 
DJ Every Friday and Saturday Night *Conveniently Located Just Off Campus *Come Watch the Irish Beat Purdue! *Show Student ID and Receive 10°/o Off Food 


~~e. ND·SMC 



~~ ~~ STUDENTS

fj)~··~  18th Annual Program  
t!ndon  Rome  
May 22-June 2 1 Travel in Ireland,  June 16-July 15 Travel in France,  

Scotland, and France Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses offered in 
ART, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, JUSTICE ---EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN 
MEETI~G Monday Oct. 16 

7:00 pm Carroll Hall, SMCFree Pizza 
**Past student and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 


·i=~lday: september 28, 1990 page 25
The Observer 
Dilucia goes to Texas for All-American tournament 

By FRANK BARLETTA Sports Writer 
King David has moved south to stake his territory in distant lands. 
Notre Dame tennis star David DiLucia was scheduled to compete Thursday in the Texas All-American tournament in Austin. DiLucia, the number-one singles' player on the men's tennis squad, was seeded sec­ond in the tournament and received a bye in the first round. 
DiLucia's only competition so far 
this season came last weekend at 
home when Notre Dame played host 
to the Tom Fallon Invitational, at 
which he won the A-flight singles 
championship. 
DiLucia, an All-American last 
season, won five straight set 
matches on his way to the 
championship, including a 6-2, 6-4 
triumph over sophomore teammate 
Chuck Coleman in the fmals. 
DiLucia was scheduled to play Hubert Karrascb of the University of Texas. Karrasch, the Longhorns' number-five man, finished last season with a record of 32-12 in singles competition. The results of the match were unavailable at press time. 
Irish tennis coach Bob Bayliss expects an excellent fall campaign from DiLucia. 
"David's become a more versatile player and found different ways to beat his opponent," said Bayliss. "He's also put on some weight and gotten stronger since his freshman year, and that should help him avoid some of the injuries that slowed him in the fall of his first two seasons." 
The Texas All-American will continue over the weekend, with the finals on Sunday. 
The men's tennis team will next see action October 5, when they face last year's defending national champions, the Stanford Cardinal, at the Eck Tennis Pavilion as part of Notre Dame's Weekend of Champions. 
The Observer 1Andrew McCloskey Dave Dilucia traveled south this weekend for the Texas All-American Tournament. 
Belles volleyball fights back 
By EILLEEN McGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball 
team (6-3) defeated Division II 
St. Joseph's College at 
Rennsalear in a match that 
transpired down to the wire. 
Saint Mary's won the first 
match 17-15 and then lost the 
next two 5-15, and 12-15. But 
the Belles came back strong 
and won the last two games to 
end the match 15-12, 15-13. 
Senior Belle Katy Killilea led 
the team with 22 kills, three 
service aces and eight digs. 
Sophomore teammate Karen 
Lorton also proved herself 
strong by contributing 18 kills, 
three service aces and seven 
blocks. Senior Michelle Sibliski 
had 11 kills and seven digs and 
freshman Michelle Martino 
added 45 assists. 

I would've bought aMacintosh even without the student discount. 
GregGallent Con•umer Economics and Housing Cornell University 
"The first time Isaw aMacintosh, Iwas immediately hooked. It's awork ofart. Isaw the student pricing and my next move was obviotis: get one. "Some other computers are cheaper, but they're apain to Iearn,and working on them can be agrueling experience. last year, afriend bought another kind ofcomputer against my advice and has used it for 
maybe 15 hours.What awaste. · '"...;;:;;~;::::"<.. "Macintosh, on the other hand, is alogical extension of . · .. ·,,:~iM~;,:.~~~t;,,; :-. the mind. It lets you concentrate on what's in your paper,
1 
''· ·\. not on how to get it on paper.You can create pro­\.-.,_ fessional-looking documents in minutes, and you
~~.... 
lose the fear oflearning new programs because 
they all work in the same way. "Once you've worked with aMacintosh, there's no turning baclC' 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 

Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 
Why do people love Macintosh·? Ask them. 
Ct9110Apolo~lnc.-llle-logo,end--~-ol-~.lnc. 
Coach Sue Medley praised her team. 
"They were a very good team, but we outlasted them," she said. "We played to come back." In reference to the rest of the season, coach Medley stated, "The rest of the season will be just as tough. It will be very important to try and keep raising our level of play." 
Sophomore Amy Persin, who is currently on the disabled list, added, "We came out ready to play in the first game. We didn't give up when we were down two games to one-and that made the difference. The teamwork and enthusiasm has been a big plus for us this year." 
Saint Mary's continues its season Friday at Mundelien College and again Saturday at Illinois Benedictine College. Its next home match will be October 13 against Concordia University. 


Missouri to face NCAA probe soon 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP)­More than 18 months after allegations against the basketball program surfaced, Missouri will go before the NCAA's Infractions Committee on Thursday to answer about 20 charges. 
But a decision on whether to apply sanctions to the Missouri program probably won't be announced for another month. 
"I believe we are prepared," Missouri chancellor Haskell Monroe said Thursday. "I think our investigators Mike Slive and Mike Glazier have done a splendid job preparing us and preparing our response. believe we're in a much better position to respond than we were some weeks ago." 
Glazier, a former NCAA investigator, and Slive are specialists in helping schools under NCAA investigation. They work out of a Chicago law office and were retained by Missouri after the school received 'notice of inquiry from the NCAA. 
"I believe they've discovered about all the facts about this case that can be discovered," Monroe said. 
The allegations center on recruiting players and providing illegal inducements. The most serious involve unethical conduct on the part of university employes, whose names have not been made public. 

Friday, September 28, 1990The Observer 



LaVigne tries to ease the pain 
Senior midfielder back in lineup after two-week respite 
faith in the results of that midfielder Bobby Allong. "But game, however. it'll be a tough game. Coach
Men 

"We got off to a bad start," said that today was our best continued from page 28 said Indiana head coach Jerry practice in a while. The Irish victory came in 1987, Yeagley. "I'm pleased with our intensity level was very high." 
when they won 4-3 in overtime. progress since then." Coach Berticelli was more 
11 One of the focal points of the "They're at full stride," said philosophical about the game, game from an Indiana perspec­Berticelli. "They'll be very ex­preferring to view it as part ofl The Observer/ File Photo tive is senior forward Ken cited about Snow's chance to a learning process. 
l 
( Steve LaVigne is hoping that the soccer team can catch the luck that 
Snow's opportunity to set IU's break the record, and it'll be a "If we have to take one step
I the Lady of the Dome has bestowing to the football team. 
all-time record for career good, pro-Indiana crowd. It's back to take two steps for­goals. With his next score, going to put added pressure on ward, then we'll do it," he said. Snow will have 78 goals, tops us." "Our goal is to do it, and do itThe other setter, senior Amy for the storied Indiana pro­Yeagley foresees a battle with right. Corrections are a long­White, will continue to make a 
gram. the Irish. term thing."
contribution, but at right-side

Penn 
If the Irish cannot keep Snow "We expect a tough time," hehitter. Last weekend she racked
continued from page 28 off the scoreboard, it could said. "Anytime Indiana and After playing in such a high­
up 17 kills, including a 10-kill, prove fatal. In the 48 games in Notre Dame play, it's going to intensity game as the Indiana
practice. .368-hit percentage perfor­
which he has scored, Indiana is be more than a soccer game," match proves to be, the Irish"We've worked hard and mance against Syracuse. 
we're communicating well as a an amazing 44-1-3. The he said. "They're better team need to be wary of slipping
"Amy will complement more 
team," said Stark. "It (the Hoosiers have yet to lose a than their record indicates. Sunday afternoon against the
at right side and we can move game in which Snow has scored They played with, and better Wisconsin Badgers.
communication) is starting to [Christine] Choqeutte to left 
come together. We're starting two or more goals, holding a than, many of the teams that
side," said Lambert. 
to gel together at the right time Choquette, a junior hitter, 22-0-1 record in those games. defeated them." The Badgers are only 3-4-1, with the toughest part of our had an impressive weekend at The two teams have already The Irish players arc psyched but they were also ranked as a schedule coming up." squared off this season, with up for the game, and the three preseason Top 20 team.
Rhode Island in f,.nnt of some 
Stark also has been a key hometown friends. She picked Indiana beating Notre Dame 1-days off to hone their skills Wisconsin leads the series with piece to the blocking scheme. up 31 kills and 28 digs in three 0 in the Golden Boot Exhibition only could have helped. Notre Dame 4-1-2, having de­
Her six solo blocks and 23 as­matches, not to mention All­Match during the preseason. "We expect to win every feated the Irish 3-1 in overtime 
sists are good for second on Tournament honors. Neither coach is putting much game we play," said junior last year at Krause Stadium. 
By COQUESE WASHIGNTON 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team wishes the lady on the dome would spread some of her wealth. 
In the past two weekends, she has blessed the football team with miraculous catches that have propelled it to its current 2-0 record. The soccer team should be so lucky. With a schedule that is as tough as any squad in the nation, the team just isn't getting the breaks that could mean the difference between a win or loss. 
Senior Steve LaVigne just can't understand it. 
"We just haven't had much 
luck this year," he said. "Some 
teams are only getting one or 
two shots on goal and are 
scoring, while we're getting 10 to 15 shots, and can't hit." 

While it doesn't make sense to LaVigne and the rest of the players, it makes perfect sense to Coach Berticelli. 
"Right now our goals are long range," explained the irrst-year head coach. "We are in the process of of getting the team playing a different type of game than they are used to, and there will be an adjustment period. That may cause a few heartaches for the guys right now." 
The insertion of LaVigne back into the lineup should help ease some of the pain. An early sea­son battle with meningitis kept the 6-2, 185-pound midfielder out of action for a few weeks. Consequently, the Irish lost last year's assist leader, and their number two player in total points. 
Since his return, Berticelli feels LaVigne has played "exceptionally well," and stated that his outstanding game against Loyola may have been the best single game by any player on the ·squad this sea­
son. 

While the team still has its eye on winning the MCC tour­nament and thus gaining an NCAA tournament bid, this weekend the squad travels to Bloomington for a match against the third-ranked Hoosiers, and then to Madison where it will face Wisconsin. According to LaVigne, the team has a realistic chance of win­ning both games. 
"If everyone plays as well as they are capable of, there's no telling how good we can be," he said. 
A favorable twist of fate, and a smile from the lady on the dome wouldn't hurt their chances either. 


the team. It seems as if the "It was great," she said. "It's 
l 
)t Irish have settled on a setter. the only time I'd get to play in Freshman Janelle Karlan did front of so many relatives be­the setting this past weekend cause it's our only trip to the
~ and continues to improve. East Coast. It was good timing "Right now, she's the best that I started playing well when
I~ 
setter we have," said Lambert. we went out there." 
I;l I· 
I 
I; 
1I 

1~ 
I ~ ' 
I,_ 


ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS ANNOUNCES SPECIAL LOWER PRICING ON LAPTOPS AND DESKTOPS 

Chedc out these new low prices: 
LAPTOPS 

Minisport HD (6 pound laptop with 20 MB Harddlslc) $1569.00 Supersport 286. Model 20 (CGA video. 20 MB Hard disk) $2192.00 Supersport 286 Model 40 (CGA video. 40 MB Hard disk) $2399.00 Supersport 286 E Model 20 (VGA video. 20 MB Hard disk) 92295.00 Supersport 286 E Model 40 (VGA video. 40 MB Harddlsk) $2503.00 
DESKTOPS 

Z-286 lP/8 Model 20 w/FTM Color Monitor. 20 MB Harddlsk. $1518.00 1 MB RAM.Windows 3.0. Mouse. VGA video 
Now Is the time to get the computer you've always wanted. Whether It's word processing. spreadsheets. databases or CAD. ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS has a desktop or laptop to do the Job. 
Price Includes WORDPERFECT 5.1 and a one year warranty. 

CONTACT Notre Dame Computer Store 
ZENITH 
Math/Computer Bldg. 

data systems 
239-7477 

Groupe BuH 




Friday, September 28, 1990 The Observ~;r page 27 
CROSSWORD
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

3 p.m. Lecture, "What Happened to Political History?" Professor Paul Kleppner, director of Social Science Re­sea~ch Institute, Northern Illinois University. Room 131 DeclO Faculty Hall. Sponsored by the Department of His­tory. 
4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "The Adjunction­Theoretic Classification Of Projective Varieties." Profes­sor Andrew Sommese. Room 226, Computing Center and Mathematics Building. Sponsored by the Department of Mathematics. 
7:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Glory " Annenberg Auditorium, Snlte Museum of Art. Spo~sored by the Department of Communication and Theatre. 
8 p,m. and 10:45 p.m. Film, "Born On The Fourth Of July," Auditorium, Cushing Hall of Engineering. Spon­sored by the Student Union Board. 
4-7 p.m. Charity picnic, Holy Cross Field. Sponsored by Hall Presidents' Council and Hall Officers' Council. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Broiled cod Broccoli quiche Cajun chicken breast Gyros 
Saint Mary's 
Linguine with clam sauce Southern style stuffed pepper Meat loaf Deli bar 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDF 
W\l~T 010~0\J 

r-----------------'"""1 
GH;. I~ 'tO\! ~IS'SE.O ANt '+OU OW£ ME 25 Ct.N\5. 
Mr>.i&t. \IS 0\>ll()S\\l Df..'{! M~'IB£ t..U. iHtst Xs ~tA~ 1<\'l AKS'ft£1$ 
A'Vi CORRECT.' MP..'iBE '(O\JR .,._. 15 R£Ail.i "F'.' Tl-\1>.1 IJ.\JSI B£ II! I WIN T\-1£ BU.' 


"For the hundredth time in as many days! ..• 
I haven'tgot a quarter!" 
,.

................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
~ ~ CAMPUS 


~ ~ Q)'IC;lQ)IC;IlCS~#\OO)W 
~ [83(Q)~[E f({))~[E5)1f1 IDa #\ff#-\~~
I 
~ TODAV, SElPlEM!SlERi 2~
I 4:310 1'0 ~:1010 P.M.
I IF~!El!DIHOU§IE MAll 
I FREE 
I 
.........,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..1 
ACROSS 23 Unclose, to sa Healer at Shelley Valhalla
1 "-atthe 
24 Highwayman 61 Streamlet pane ...": 

26 Hide's 63"Such-!"

Browning companion 64 See 18 Across5 Talking horse 28Shield 67 Computer input 
on TV 
30 Scythe handle 68 Late queen of 9 Part of a steeple 34 Do something 
Romania 14 An anagram for 37 Nimble, to Rene 69 Formerly, once male 39 Berlin's "­
70Cupid 15 Tops 71 Correct a text 
Be Surprised" 40 With "You.~ ljne

16 Baseball's Big 72 Urges
after 64 Across 

Poison 73 Grocer's stock 
44 The Brinker boy 
in Soho 17 Agreements in 

45 "... woes that

Nantes 
wait-?": 18 With 64 Across, Byron DOWNfirst line of a 
46 Kind of strike 

Gershwin hit 1 "Half-is
47 Ancient ascetic song better ..." 
sozeno's 20 "Gunsmoke" classrooms 2Buii:Comb. star 52 Poet Walter 
form 22 Dress-shirt -Mare 
3-acids fastener 54 Footstool 4 Monetary unit in 
Zaragoza 5Kneaded 6 Noisy quarrel 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Father of 
Cainan a Armor marrers 9 Jenny Lind's 
home 
11 The lowdown 
G.I. argot t3-Wilson, 
Aussie novelist 19 Jet1age 21 What Circe cast 25 Type of 
nightclub 27 Moon Mullins's bratty brother 29 Watergate figure 


I 


MOVIES I. 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY: ~ 
oo~@[ru~ @[NJ \T~~ [F@Ql)[ruljf~J @[F Jttl)fLWQ\j ~ ~ 
1!:00 ,.I'<![) Hl:'l!S ll".!MI. I 
I ~ 

CUSHING AUDITORIUM ADMISSION: ~uo ~ 
i 
STUDENT UNION BOARD ~ 

31 Civil wrong 32 Actor Cronyn 33 Genesis site 34 County in N.C. 35 Cartoonist 
Addams 36 Great amounts 38 A sister of 
Thalia 41 Secondhand 42 People with "I" 
trouble 43 Daring deeds 48Showing 
courage 
SPEl,.UNKER 
~ 


Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

-.. 
49 Author Wiesel 51 Stravinsky's "L'Histoire du 
53 Allen had one 55 Home of the 
N.B.A. 's Heat 
56 River in a Burns poem 
57 Comes close 58 Salinger girl 59 Muslim priest 60 Exceptional 62 Body of 
tradition 65 Part of a cinema dog's name && Bull Halsey's dept. 

..
.., p
I ) I 
l 1' 
l!I • 
{\ .l 
I;\




lJ Sports
\ \I
\ I 
page 218 Friday, September 28, 1990
~! _: 
' 
If Cross country programs host National Catholics 
'l Senior Ryan Cahill puts best foot forward for Irish team 
\ 
p By BARBARA MORAN Invitational today on Burke "He's a real team player," I il Sports Writer Memorial Golf Course. said the coach, "and his goal Running steadily in the top for the season is for the team
.I 
Some guys always finish first five and improving with each to reach the NCAA's." 
.. 
and win all the awards. season, the now-senior Cahill Cahill ratified Piane's percep­And some guys rarely finish has, and continues to, tions, speaking of himself re­frrst and win just the praise of strengthen his team in every luctantly but expounding on the their coach and their team­race. achievements of his team and mates. Cahill, who boasts impressive discussing the necessity of hard

Ryan Cahill is one of the sec­times in both the mile (4:07) work. 
ond type. and the 5,000 meters (14:16), "As you get older, you realize Cahill, a native of has impressed Irish head coach that you have to work veryNorthbrook, Ill., has been a Joe Piane with both his talent hard to do well," he said. "As a 
constant factor for the Notre and dedication. freshman or sophomore youDame men's cross country "He has a lot of natural tal­don't realize that. You can see team since he began running ent," said Piane, "but at this all the achievements they (his .~ for them as a freshman, and level you have to work, too, and teammates) make, and it's all will volunteer his selflessness he puts it in." hard You
from work. reallyand dedication to the team Piane also praised Cahill as a have to focus and work hard if when it plays host to the 11th selfless and goal-oriented run­
annual National Catholic ner. see CAHILL I page 22 
Women try to rebound from 15-50 loss to Georgetown 
By RICHARD MATHURIN strong squad. Their top runner and Notre Dame," said Irish Sports Writer is Jennifer Rolfe, who finished head coach Joe Piane. seventh in last year's meet with Notre Dame will start seven 
The Notre Dame women's a time of 18:53.0. Providence, runners in tomorrow's meet. cross country wiQ play host to which took five of the top six The team will look to juniorsthe National Catholic spots in last year's National Diana Bradley and AmyInvitational today at 3 p.m. at Catholics, will not compete this Blaising, who fmished 12th and Burke Memorial Golf Course. year. 13th, respectively, versus The Irish will try to rebound Other competitive teams in Georgetown. The Irish squadfrom their disappointing 15-50 tomorrow's meet include St. will be bolstered by the return loss to national power Thomas, Loyola, DePaul, of senior Jenny Ledrick, who Georgetown two weeks ago. Detroit and Marquette. Michelle sat out the Georgetown meet 
There will be no Georgetowns Auger of St. Thomas should due to injury. in the field, but all schools challenge Rolfe in the meet. "It would be a nice. goal to could challenge the Irish. "Boston College is head and beat Boston College, but not 
Leading the way this year is shoulders above the rest of the necessarily realistic," said Boston College. The Eagles fm­field, but from there it should Piane. "We just want to im­
The ObserYer I David lee
ished second in last year's meet be a competitive race between prove on last year's perfor­
Ryan Cahill (center) and the Notre Dame men's and women's cross
to Providence and return a DePaul, Loyola, St. Thomas, mance."
\ country teams will play host to the National Catholic Invitation::.! todav. '. Women's volleyball braces for No.8 Penn State 
By MIKE KAMRADT looked good in practice. If we in kill percentage as a team anyone we've played so far," the blocking problem. "We're Sports Writer can knock down Penn State it with a startling .390. They have said head coach Art Lambert. 
very young and inexperiencedwould be a big upset." three players in the Top 10. 
"They don't make mistakes." but we have tremendous talent.
After going 5-5 against com­Fellow middle hitter fresh­Junior JoAnn Elwell leads the To combat the high-powered We've faced a variety of hitting petition not considered among man Molly Stark agrees. nation with a .538. Sophmore hitting attack of the Lions, the styles and it takes a while to the elite in the country and "I think this weekend is going LeAnn Kling is sixth with a Irish have to block well. The get warmed up to them. We having eighth-ranked Penn to be good," she said." I really .439, while senior Noelle problem is, the Irish haven't have to learn to be consistent." 
I State coming into town for a do." Zientara is eighth with .429. been blocking well as a tealll.. Fiebelkorn continues to gain
7:30 match tonight, some The Irish, who also will face Those big numbers are a di­The Irish sport a block average on single-season blocking
( 
teams might want to get down Miami of Ohio Saturday at rect result of good setting, and of 2. 7 compared to 4.7 for the records. She leads the team!I. on themselves. 7:30, will have their hands full the Nittany Lions have the sec­top team in the country. with 22 solo blocks and 30 as­Not the Irish women's volley­with Nittany Lions. Their 13-0 ond best setter in the country "Our problem with blocking is sists. \. ball team. record is certainly impressive in as senior Michell Jaworski is just a lack of concentration," A key for the Irish is that"I'm positive about this week­itself. Besides that, Penn State averaging 13.3 assists per 
said Lambert. they've had a good week ofl end," said sophmore middle hit­has only lost one game all sea­game. "It's really not thing,"
one 

I ter Jessica Fiebelkorn. "We've son. The Lions lead the nation "They're much better than said Fiebelkorn, referring to see PENN I page 26 
i· """ 
I' 
Men's soccer faces 
Women's soccer tries tough task at Indiana to better road record 
By RICH KURZ By DAVE DIETEMAN had trouble playing on the Sports Writer Sports Writer road. It's psychologically im­
• LaVigne back I ·page 26 portant for us to prove that we 
After a few days off from its The Notre Dame women's can win on the road." 
grinding schedule, the Notre probable pinched nerve in his soccer team (6-2-1) hits the "This weekend is going to be 
Dame men's soccer team goes shoulder. road again this weekend, a big weekend for us because 
right back into the midst of the How important is LaVigne? sweeping through the midwest last weekend was so challeng­
fire this weekend, traveling Ask Irish head coach Mike for matchups against Indiana ing," noted Molly Lennon, a ju­tonight to Bloomington to face Berticelli. University and Louisville. nior sweeper from Adams HighSoccer America's ninth-ranked NOne of the best things we did The Irish, 5-0 at home this School in South Bend. team, the Indiana Hoosiers. [against Indiana] was shut year and ranked eighth in the "Louisville is in our region, and After facing IU, on Sunday down Snow," he said. "Paul Central region, are looking to we have to beat them if we 
the Irish will visit the Wisconsin LaVigne was very effective improve on their 1-2-1 road want to keep moving up in the Badgers, a preseason Top 20 stopping him, but he might not mark. Yet while the 5 p.m. rankings. team. be able to play because of an game Friday at Bloomington "Indiana is always a chal-. 
There are few more daunting injury." against traditional rival lenge, too. It's a big rivalry be­tasks in sport than facing Indiana, NCAA co-champions Indiana looms large, Sunday's tween us. Even though they are perennial powerhouse Indiana last season, has won five games 1p.m. meeting with Central re­a club team, they're alwaysin its home stadium. Factor in in row after dropping its frrst gion power Louisville seems good. We're looking to play a sellout crowd hoping to see two games to Top 10-teams just as ominous. well and dominate these games scoring-whiz Ken Snow break UCLA and UNLV. One of those "As far as this weekend goes, like we have been. After last the Hoosier scoring record, and wins came against eighth­we need to prove that we can weekend, we're really lookingadd the fact that IU is in the ranked St. Louis, a one-goal win consistently on the road," to dominate more on offense." midst of a five-game winning victor over Notre Dame two said Notre Dame head coach The Irish have good reason streak, and you have an even weeks ago. Chris Petrucelli. "We haven't for being concerned about the more difficult job. The Hoosiers hold a 12-1-3 lost at home yet, so we're two teams they will face this 

But wait, there's more. Senior decision in the all-time series pretty confident when it comes weekend. The lifetime series co-captain Paul LaVigne, against the Irish, including a 6-to playing here. But our two between Notre Dame and cornerstone of the Irish de­The 0bseM1r I Andt'IM McCloskey
0-1 record at home. The only losses and one tie came on the Indiana is even at one victory
fense, most likely will miss both Forward Mario Trioci and the men's road. If you look at the past games this weekend with a see MEN I page 26 soccer team face Indiana and couple of years, this team has 
see WOMEN I page 20
Wisconsin this weekend. 








