
VOL. XXIII NO. 109 
THURSDAY , MARCH 22, 1990 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S . 
Wetherbee talks of shuttle flight
Notre Dame's first graduate to orbit outer space 

By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 
Commander James Wetherbee, Notre Dame's first graduate in space, said Wednesday that the best part about being an astronaut is the flying. 
Giving a lecture at a packed Washington Hall, Wetherbee said that the space shuttle Columbia, which he flew in last January, is "the ultimate flying machine. I got into this business in order to fly, and it's a lot of fun." 
Wetherbee, a 1974 ND graduate, was the pilot of STS­32, which launched from Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Jan. 9, 1990. In the longest shuttle mission to date, the crew launched a Navy satellite and retrieved a large facility containing long-tem. 
• press conference I page 5 
scientific experiments. The crew landed at Edwards Air Force Base in California on Jan. 20, 1990. 
During a slide presentation of his shuttle flight, Wetherbee described what an astronaut feels during launch. "The first thought that goes through your mind is...when those boosters ignite, you're going places." 
After going into orbit, Wetherbee was able to see the moon very clearly. He described it as a "fairly incredible sight that I'll remember for the rest of my life." 
While in orbit, the shuttle crew conducted many medical experiments to test how the human body adjusted to a non­gravitational environment. 
According to Wetherbee, one of those adjustments was a lengthening of the spine--while in orbit he grew one inch. "I was concerned that I would not be able to get back in my launch suit [for the landing]," he said. 
Wetherbee then presented a film taken during the shuttle's flight and landing. One of the things that he described was a 25-mile flame which appeared behind the shuttle as it reentered Earth's atmosphere. 
When asked how he handled the explosion of the space shuttle Challenger in 1986, Wetherbee said ''I've been in this business for 14 years. It's the only thing I've ever wanted to do. I think that the risks are worth taking." 
Wetherbee said that he would like to be in at least 4 or 5 more shuttle flights, or "as long as my wife will let me." 

Gorbachev tightens grip on 'liberated' Lithuanian republic 
VILNIUS, U.S.S.R. (AP) ­President Mikhail Gorbachev increased pressure on the breakaway Lithuanian republic Wednesday by ordering its citi­zens to turn in their guns and telling the KGB to strengthen controls on the republic's bor­der. 
In a decree certain to heighten tension between Lithuania and the Kremlin, Gorbachev also temporarily banned the sale of firearms in Lithuania and said those citi­zens who do not surrender weapons within a week will have them confiscated. 
Lithuanian President Vytautus Landsbergis, in a statement distributed by aides at the Supreme Council legislature, said Gorbachev's directive "amounts to claiming the non­existent and unjustified sovereignty of a powerful coun­try over a small and unarmed neighbor." 
"It could be enforced only by brutal military force," he said. 
"The ghost of Stalinism is walking in the Kremlin, and the shadow of it lies far to the west (in Lithuania)," Landsbergis said. But he predicted that Lithuania would remain "serene and united." 
Premier Kazimira Prunskiene of Lithuani~>. told reporters in Vilnius her government still was counting on negotiations temporary police custody with Moscow on the republic's within the next seven days," the declaration of independence Tass news agency said. March 11. He directed the Interior Min­

"We are not getting too istry "in the event of citizens' worked up about this," she refusal to turn in these said. "We hope common sense weapons, to ensure their con­will prevail." fiscation." 
Gorbachev has proclaimed Gorbachev said despite previ­the declaration of independence ous directives from the Krem­invalid, but Lithuania refuses to lin, "the Lithuanian parliament recognize his authority. and government continue pass­
In issuing the decree, Gor­ing bills that violate the rights bachev used powers given him of Soviet citizens and the when he was elected to the new, sovereignty of the U.S.S.R." more powerful presidency last Access to firearms is severely week. restricted in the Soviet Union, 
"The decree demands that and it is unknown how many citizens living in Lithuania turn weapons might be in the hands all their firearms in to 

Namibians cheer independence as U.S. lifts economic sanctions 
WINDHOEK, Namibia (AP)­Namibia celebrated its first day of independence Wednesday with a joyful multi-racial pa­rade. and President Sam Nu­joma stressed the need for eco­nomic development if the coun­try is to achieve democratic ideals. 
"We have inherited a lopsided economy ... two-thirds of our people are very poor," and 30 percent are unemployed, Nu­joma told an overflow crowd of more than 30,000 Namibians and hundreds of foreign digni­taries. 
All-night parties and tribal dancing followed the lowering of the South African flag at the sports stadium just after mid­night. Namibians cheered as the red, green and blue banner of their newly independent country was raised in its place, marking the end of 75 years of South African rule. 
The 72-member National Assembly elected in November was sworn in, and thousands lined the streets again just after dawn as a 3-mile-long pa­rade made its way to the sta­dium where Nujoma spoke. 
Forty-one of the legislators belong to Nujoma's South-West Africa People's Organization, the guerrilla movement that waged a 23-year war against South African rule and then captured the most votes in November's balloting. 
Black women from the Herero tribe, wearing colorful ankle-length Victorian dresses and headdresses, marched in front of white teenagers twirling batons down Kaiser Street, which will be renamed Independence Avenue. 
The floats depicted the coun­try's ethnic diversity. Primitive Bushmen and modern bands were carried along on the back of flatbed trucks to the sta­dium. The speeches were fol­lowed by singing and dancing that lasted into the night. 
Many young blacks cheered loudly when Palestine Libera­tion Organization leader Yasser Arafat, his car blocked by the parade, stepped out and walked a few steps along the route be­fore slipping into a hotel. 
Between the festivities and state dinners, dozens of foreign leaders took the oportunity to discuss issues. 
South African President F.W. de Klerk met with Soviet For­eign Minister Eduard Shevard­nadze. It was the first meeting between a South African presi­dent and a member of the So­viet government since relations were broken 34 years ago over South Africa's system of racial segregation. 

Shevardnadze and Secretary of State James Baker met An­golan President Eduardo dos Santos. They discussed a possi­ble cease-fire in the Angolan civil war, where the United States and the Soviet Union back opposing sides. 
To coincide with indepen­dence, the United States lifted economic sanctions against Namibia. The sanctions were imposed against South Africa to protest apartheid, but they 

~x~:~~e:ert~o~~;~~~c;';i~~n~t 
trol. 
Nujoma's focus on economics before an audience of interna­tional decision-makers was seen as an indication of the country's need for an infusion of money to balance its budget and meet the expectations that independence has created for so many black citizens. 
Lithuanians have begun sign­ing up for voluntary defense service, and some Lithuanians serving in the Soviet armed forces have deserted. 
Gorbachev previously said he expected to talk with Lithua­nian leaders about the declara­tion of independence, and se­nior officials have said the Kremlin does not intend to use force to bring the Baltic repub­lic back into the Soviet fold. 
The White House reacted "with concern" to the latest de­velopments. "It's a matter that we are watching seriously," said presidential press secre­


page 2 The Observer Thursday, March 22, 1990 
r---------------------------~--------------­
INSIDE COLUMN 
If it sounds too good, it probably is 

When my room---------­
matns and I first be­gan diseussing Can­
eun as a possible spring break option, I figured it would be way too expensive for my eollege budget. We had all but given 
up  hope  when  we  Corinne Pavlis  
found  our  knight  in  
shinning  arm or:  Saint Mary's Editor  
Doug the  

Vacation Planners representative. I le had plaeed an ad in the classilieds claiming that for under $500 students could fly to beauti­ful Mexico for a week of fun in the sun. We decided to go for broke and pay for the "luxury" package. For $560 we could fly to Cancun and stay in a luxury hotel. The tour also involved various planned spring break activities such as an evening cruise, beach parties, and half priced drinks. 
At this point I should have been giving some consideration to the old cliche about getting what you pay for. We paid very little and received even less. We were not signing ourselves up for a luxury vacation in par­adise; we were agreeing to a venture on a giant roadtrip. It was about as organized as most roadtrips are. We were never issued any travel vouchers telling us when or from whew our night departed. Our night time was verified at 5 p.m. the day we left. In the true roadtripping spirit we even had to "ehip in for gas" Each of us put in about $20 for fuel. I had always been under the impression that fuel was included in air fare. 
We were given hotel assignments upon arrival in Mexieo. Vacation Planners' idea of luxury accommodations turned out to be eramming up to six students into rooms with one bed. Actually, we were among the lucky ones. Just ask the boys on Marion Street who were assigned to a hurricane strieken hotel which no longer offered phones, maid service, room service, or even a front desk. 
Others found themselves with no where to stay as W!~ soon learned all of the hotels were overbooked. Many slept in hotel lob­bies or on the beach. Even our Vacation Planners representative discovered that his employer had not even reserved him a room. 
We all wanted to look at the bright side: the parties. One by one cruises were over­sold and parties were cancelled. I never once saw a half-priced drink. 
Heturning to the states was no more or­ganized than any other aspect of our jour­ney. We had no flight home. Subsequently, we spent ten hours in a Mexican airport which offered hoards of bugs, frequent power outages, and no working women's bathrooms. I spent those ten hours con­suming fluids ranging from tequila to kaopectate. 
A week has gone by since our return, and as with any road trip, we all talk about Cancun as one of the best times of our lives. It actually was not all bad. I got a great tan and met a lot of incredible people. But, I learned one important lesson; if it sounds to good to be true, it probably is. 

P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)·239-7471 Today's Staff: 

Production News Joe Zadrozny Ad Design Joe Moody Arnell Gallanosa Val Poletto Catherine Kane Lisa Gunsorek 
VIewpoint Ryan Roberts Accent Kevin Reisch Quinn Satepauhoodle Shonda Wilson Kate Foster Jeanne Naylor Fran Moyer Cristina Ortiz Systems Sports 
Molly Schwartz Frank Pastor Cesar Capella 

Graphics Bradford Boehm Business Sandy Wiegand Caroline Clarke 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacatiOn penods The Observer is a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Thursday, March 23. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
X

® © ~ ~ m 0 EZJ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

OF INTEREST 
A Mexican Lunch is being served today at the esc from 11:30-1:30 p.m. to benefit the St. Stephen's Guadalupe Society. 
"Preparing for your Job Search" is the title of a presentation to be given by Paul Heynolds of the Career and Placement Services office tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall for juniors. Heynolds will outline ways in which the placement office can assist in a student's job hunt. 
The English requirement in the College of Arts and Letters has been altered. The college will now accept literature courses taught in Language departments, as well as the literature courses taught in the English de­partment to fulfill the requirement. If selected, the course may not satisfy some other collegiate or major require­ment. 
President Lee Teng-hui was re-elected 
Wednesday by aging lawmahrs who have not faced 
voters in more than 40 years while thousands of students 
demanding direct presidential elections protested for a 
sixth day. Lee is the first native Taiwanese to head the 
government and ruling party and is regarded with 
suspicion by many of the Nationalist Old Guard, who 
believe he is not sufficiently committed to their dream of 
one day returning victoriously to rule the Chinese ·mainland. 
The State Department on Wednesday welcomed the resumption of food delivery to rebel-held territory in northern Ethiopia, but said only a small fraction of starving people are being reached. According to U.N. estimates, more than 1 million people are threatened with starvation in Eritrea alone. The relief effort is the first since Eritrean rebels launched an 
offensive in early February and overran the Massawa. 
INDIANA 
By signing 93 measures and vetoing two before a midnight deadline, Indiana Gov. Evan Bayh completed work Tuesday night on 187 bills passed by the 1990 Indiana General Assembly. Bills signed late Tuesday will reorganize the Indi­ana State Fair, provide new programs for crime victims and ban cigarette vending machines from areas that are easily accessible to children. 
The Nashville Network will telecast the entire 12 hours of the FarmAid IV concert in In­dianapolis April 7, not just the first nine hours announced previously. the cable station said Wednesday. The concert, featuring an array of rock 'n' roll and country music acts, is designed to raise money for financially strapped farmers. 
port of 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for March 21 , 1990 
Volume in shares 

177.32 Million 


NYSE Index 
186.82 {7 0.89 

S&P Composite 
339.74 {7 1.83 

Dow Jones Industrials 2,727.93 {710.81 
Precious Metals 
Gold {7 $1.40 to $392.50 I oz. Silver'I} 1.2¢ to $5.055 I oz. Source: AP 
Blacks put up barricades and stoned cars Wednes­day to enforce a nationwide strike marking the 30th an­niversary of the Sharpeville massacre. Police said at two people were killed and about 50 injured. The state-run South African Broadcasting Corporation reported that between 20 percent and 80 percent of black workers stayed away from work in many areas. 
Congressman John Hiler will be sp•~aking to the College Hepublicans at 2 p.m. Friday March 23 at Montgomery Theatre. Anyone with questions should con­tact Tina at 283-3427. 
Applications for Dismas House for fall 1990 due March 23. Anyone interested in living in Dismas House next year should apply by March 23. Dismas House is a residence for students and ex-prisoners. Applications an1 available at the Center for Social Concerns. If you have any questions call Kathy Hoyer at the CHnter for Social Concerns 239-7862 or Dismas House 239-8522. 
Arthur Hertzberg, professor of religion at Dartmouth UnivHrsity will be giving a lecture entitled "Jewish and Catholic Immigrants to America: A Jewish Perspective" at 8 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Edueation Auditorium. 
Global warming during the past century could not have come solely from a long-term influence of the oceans, according to a U.S. study that supports the idea that the greenhouse effect has begun to warm the Earth. A computer simulation suggests that the oceans can ae­count for only about three-fifths of the warming recorded 
in the last 100 years. 
Yesterday's high: 58 
Yesterday's low: 30 
Nation's high: 95 
(Yuma,AZ) 
Nation's low: 16 
(Elkins, WV) 
Forecast: Mostly cloudy 
Thursday with a 70 percent 
chance of light showers 
ending by late afternoon. 
Highs near 55. Mostly 
cloudy and much cooler 
Thursday night with a 
chance of flurries late. Lows 
in the upper 20s. Partly 
cloudy and much colder 
Friday. Highs in the upper 
30s. 

©1990 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
WORLD 
ALMANAC 
On March 21: 
e In 1908: Fn~nchman IIPnri Farman earries passenger in biplane for thn first tinw nvN. e In 1910: U.S. SnmttP grants ex-pn~sidnnt Tmldy Boo­snvnlt a Y•~arly pnnsion of $10,000. 
e In 1941: Thn last Italian post in East Libya falls to Bri­tish. 
e In 1965: In Alabama. 3,200 1wopln begin frn1)dom march from Selma to Montgomery. 
e In 1985: lsnwlis kill 21 in Shiite villages in Lebanon. in­cluding 2 mPmbers of the CBS News Team. 

NATIONAL 


Thursday, March 22, 1990 
Elected GSU leaders announce future goals 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 
Arsene Balihuta and Edna Hidekel have been declared the president and executive vice president. respectively, of the Graduate Student Union (GSU) . for 1990-91. 
Balihuta and Hidekel was the only ticket who ran in the elec­tion. according to GSU Presi­dent Luis Canales. He said the ticket was deemed winners by acclamation. 
The announcement was made 
Wednesday by Karen Slawner, 
chair of the Elections Commit­
tee. at a Graduate Student 
Council meeting. 
Balihuta said he and Hidekel 
have the following goals for the 
next year: 
•To 
sponsor activities that unify graduate students; 

•To 
help graduate students realize that they can make a great contribution to the rich­ness of the Notre Dame com­munity; 

•To 
carry out activities that facilitate graduate student in-· teraction with faculty and staff in settings other than aca­demic; 


The Observer is always looking for new faces. Write for News, Accent, Sports or Viewpoint. Join the Ad department or work in the Production aspect of the paper. There are many ways that you can contribute to your paper. 
Call The Observer today at 239-5303. You'll be glad you did. 

GET 
•To 
find ways to reduce the graduate and undergraduate student "divide" so that there are more opportunities for in­teraction; 

•To 
institute permanent aca­demic and social activities to make the GSU more visable in the community; 


Although he is dissappointed that no other ticket ran in the election, Canales said he be­lieves "no one else stepped for­ward because this ticket (the Balihuta ticket) was so strong." 
"These are quality people," said Canales. He said three tickets ran in the GSU elections last year. 
Arsene Balihuta is a Full­bright Scholar and a PhD can­didate in the department of economics. He obtained his un­dergraduate degree from Mak­erere University in Kampala, 
Uganda in 1984. He will replace Canales. 
Edna Hidekel, originally from Israel, is a PhD candidate in the department of government. She will replace John Monteiro. 
Balihuta and Hidekel will as­sume their new positions at the next GSU meeting on April 11, said Canales. 
WORLD AWARENESS PRESENTS 

The Struggle For 

STICE 
THURSDAY • March 22, 1990 7:OOpm • Montgomery Theatre • Lecture and Discussion on Liberation Theology • Fr. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., ...'::· ofKellogg Institute 
8:00pm • CSC • "Life and Death ...., hop Romero: Significance for the U.S. Church" • 
Nangle, O.F.M. 
6:30pm • South Dining 

"Romero: A Prophet for Our,Time~' • · . . .,... · ··· · StJoseph H.S. at 3:00pm to St. Stephens Pansh • V1gll and Mass follows march at 5:00pm. 
in Central America 
OVERSEAS 
Week Cosponsored by 

and DEVELOPMENT NE1WORK 
The Observer page 3 

AP Photo Crowding for democracy 
Citizens gather at Sukh-Bator Square demanding democracy and government reform in the Mongolian capital city of Ulan Bator. They hope for positive results from the three-day national congress. 
'Friends' raise money for Snite Museum 
By JEFF SWANSON 
News Writer 
The Friends of the Snite Mu­seum of Art recently kicked off a corporate membership drive in which they hope to collect $30,000. 
Lucille Brodie, staff executive of the Friends, said, "We have the support to make this drive successful. If the number of volunteers that has turned out 
SERIES 
is any indication of how suc­cessful this drive will be, then it should be very successful." 
The Friends, a non-profit or­ganization that helps the Snite to raise money, hopes to in­crease the quality of the mu­seum's public programs and to make corporations aware of the opportunities the museum has for leisure activities for their employees and families, and the community. 
The Snite's collection is val­ued at over $50 million with approximately 18,000 items, of which about 1,000 are on dis­play at a given time. In addition to its collection, the Snite offers many cultural activities includ-
CATHLI C FAITH SERIES CREED: Mokjng the Good News Good The Creed summarizes the New Testament I which in turn tries to capture who Jesus Christ we It is en ancient text that invites the Christian into the mystery of God. We will look at the Creed both for its truth as confession of en ineffable faith, en also for its beauty as e poem or symbol of devotion to the Trinity. To both know end love the Creed in el its goodness will be our hope. 

sponsored b Cempus f!.i!!istry 
Fr. Nicholas Ayo, c.s.c. is Assistant Professor, Liberal Studies. He is author of The Creed os Symbol ( 1989) ond the Sermon-Conference of St. Thomas Aquinos on the Apostles· Creed. ( 1988) Sundey, Merch 25 end Tuesdey, Merch 27 Keenen-Stenford Chepel 7-8:30pm 
-

...... ...... ~ ...... ...... ...... 
P@'SY 0 PptCh I 
I FULL SERVICE FLORIST ~ 
Balloon Plants Bouquets Bouquets Corsages Arrangements I Dish Gardens Boutonnieres Fresh and Silk 
r----------------------,
11 Oo/o OFF CASH AND CARR VI 1 with SMC or NO student ID I 
1be c:.ro.btgl Md

------------------------·
Soutb ot UnlvaaltJ Pall "-II ~ 
Mishawaka. lrt 46M~ 
5901 Grape Rd. ~ 
277·1291 

..... ..... -...... ...... ..... .... ­
ing foreign films, recitals, and guest lecturers ranging from artists to writers. 
"We're a pretty well kept se­cret," said Brodie. "Admission is free and the Snite is a won­derful place to go to if you need solitude," she said. 
The corporate membership drive has about forty volunteers which are soliciting 588 local companies within a fifty mile radius of South Bend. There are seven types of corporate memberships available ranging from $100 to $5,000 in price. All of the money will go to the museum and it will help defray the cost of informing the community about Snite events. 

_j 

Thursday, March 22, 1990

page 4 The Observer 
'Marlboro Man' lives on amid foreign cigarette sales boom 
(AP) Long banned from American airwaves, the Marl­boro Man still gallops across television screens in the Philip­pines and other developing countries where U.S. tobacco companies are selling more ci­garettes than ever and lung­cancer rates are soaring. 
As the market shrinks at home, the U.S. government is helping American tobacco com­panies invade foreign markets, particularly along the booming Pacific Him. 
In Thailand. where 65 percent of men over 20 smoke, the U.S. Trade Office is threatening sanctions unless import taxes and other barriers to American cigarettes are lowered. 
Health groups from nine Asian countries sent a letter to President Bush last year calling the threat "a mockery of your country's efforts to curb the export of other addictive drugs into your country." 
Billboards for Marlboro and Winston are common in Bangkok, despite a year-old law prohibiting all cigarette advertising. Thai health offi­cials fear opening the door to 
U.S. tobacco interests, as South Korea, Japan and Taiwan did four years ago, could mean a sharp increase in the number of teenage and female smokers. 
"My bottom line is anti­smoking," said Dr. Prakit Va­tee-Satokit of the Thai Anti-Smoking Campaign Project. "I don't care if it's Thai or Ameri­can cigarettes. I see people die of smoking every day." 

In Hong Kong, where Ameri­can cigarettes dominate 70 percent of the market, lung­cancer deaths increased 58 percent in the last decade and the number of teenage smokers is on the rise. Taiwanese anti­smoking advocates say 85 per­cent of young smokers, whose ranks are being filled through American hard-sell, prefer im­ports. 
Smoking -and lung cancer deaths -are declining overall in some Western European countries where health con­cerns mirror those in the United States. 
In Britain, the heaviest smok­ers are blue-collar workers and people in their 20s, but the number of teenage smokers is dropping. They were the target of the government Health Edu­cation Authority's recent $16.5 million no-smoking campaign and an anti-smoking group called Parents Against Tobacco. 
Young adults also are Italy's most avid smokers, although smoking is declining overall. The most recent statistics say 29 percent of Italians smoked in 1986, down from 35 percent in 1980. 
The warning "Smoking is dangerous to your health" is printed on all cigarette packs sold in Argentina and Uruguay, but surveys say 68 percent of all men in Uruguay and 32 per­cent of women smoke. 
About 60 percent of the popu­lation of Japan smokes, and the admonition "Be careful not to smoke too much for your health" in barely visible print on cigarette packs does little to counteract the impact of televi­sion advertising. Foreign ac­tors such as James Coburn and Roger Moore appear in ads promoting a glamorous image for smoking, and Japanese ci­garette companies have taken a cue from their American coun­terparts by creating products for specific groups. 



Actress Audrey Hepb~rn. Goodwill Amb.assador to UNICEF, along with Conductor Michael Thomas re­ceived Keys to the c1ty from Mayor Richard Daley after performing in UNICEF'S "Concert for Life" Wednesday. Hepburn narrated Thomas' original composition from "The Diary of Anne Frank." 
CATHOLIC FAITH SERIES 
SUNDAY, MARCH 25 AND TUESDAY, MARCH 27 CREED: Making the Good News Good FR. NICHOLAS A YO, c.s.c. 
Program of Liberal Studies 
SUNDAY, APRIL 8 AND TUESDAY, APRIL 10 
CODE: Moral Law or Moral Wisdom? 
FR. TAMES BURTCHAELL, c.s.c. Department of Theology 
1'HE MORRISSEY FILMFESTIVAL 
Before you go out... 
Check out what films ND dorms produced! 


**** 

"We laughed, we cried, it was better than Cats." Gene Siskel 
and Roger Ebert 
Thursday, March 22, 1990 
Democratic primaries in Illinois tallied 
CHICAGO (AP) -Rep. Gus Savage survived a sexual ha­rassment scandal and a strong challenge to win the Democrat primary, but his opponent said the five-term congressman's strength may be ebbing. 
With 95 percent of precincts reporting in the mostly black district, Savage had 39,602 votes or 51 percent and Mel Heynolds, who like Savage is black. had 33.472 votes or 43 percent. A follower of extremist Lyndon LaHouche had 5 per­cent. 
"Here's a 1 0-year incumbent barely getting over 50 percent of the vote against someone who's never held elective of­fice," said Reynolds, 38, a former Hhodes scholar whom detractors labeled an outsider backed mostly by whites. 
Other victors in Tuesday's election included Secretary of State Jim Edgar, whose cam­paign for the GOP gubernato­rial nomination over an abor­tion foe drew support from the White House. 

The Observer 
AP Photo 
Wields political power 

Rabbi Eliezer Menachem Schach (center}, the 96-year old Torah scholar and presently the center of influence as to who the lsreali religious political parties will back to form a new government, walks in the grounds of his Yeshiva (school to study the holy books) Wednesday morning. Two other rabbis accompany him. 


Pizza HufDelivers on CampusFast, Hot and Free! 
Dur1,~ Ldb Da.x Bea~y Eev€415 hts Ftnd,nij: ~~~fr;;;:. mass Co,.,.s urn p tiOYJ/ 
©19410 Pizza Hut, ln<. 
FAST FREE DELIVERY limited Denvery Area 
Call232·2499 



M;di;-----:--~-6-P;kPePsiZoi;®--i 
Cheese Pizza $699 or2 $999 
lor an~ 
1i • E , 

I opptngs x ra
I Available on Pan, Hand-Tossed Traditional or Thin' NCrispy"Pizza VAliD ON DFUVERV OR fARRVOIIT
I Offer eHpTres "April r2, 1990 
I 9 9 ( 
1
1 I #

~ with the P.Urchase of any Pairs"' I I or Large Pizza at regular price. I 
Y1lJDJIUlillYEIY Ol c.mvourI orter eiijiTi"iillprtl 12, 1 990 1 Please MHtioll coupon w11et1 ordering. One coupon pet ponyI pervisitat~pa1ingPiuaHuf'll'res:auranls. _lkllvalidin I 
I 
l'lool4l -11oo ,_wlool -rllg. ""'"'"""' por pony por •ill al ~ I combination with any othet Piua H~ offer. l'an ~a ITodemark ~ palfi<ipmj rm. Hvl" reslauranl< Mal..lidil.....binatioo wilh ""f'lhw ~ ol Piua Hut, Inc ~.(ala~ areglllefed l_rodemark of ~ I ~na Hut" oiler. ®....,_ rov"Jond 1n11ornar1o of~ Hul, In<. linittol ~ I Pep~~.(o., Inc. lim~ed de~very area. Our drr~en corry no more ~ 
Idor..y oroa. 0,. driYtn...,., no,..,. lhan S2Q.OO. l/lOC ...n ~fian ;;u t than $20.00. 1/20! cash redempflon YUiue. ;;nut I .a... Cl!90 rm. Hut, In<. 45/20 U · 1 ©1990 Piua Hut, Inc. 7S • <a1: m-1m Cal: 232-2499 

~-----------J------------~ 
pages 

NO Graduate lectures on being an astronaut 
By SANDRA WIEGAND Assistant News Editor 
The technical aspect of being an astronaut leaves little room for emotionalism, according to James Wetherbee, the first Notre Dame graduate to man a space flight. 
"It's the nature of the business," he said, "but there are times during the flight when you do get fairly emotional." 
He cited the moment of first entering orbit and seeing the moon, whiter and larger than he had seen it before. Wetherbee said what he most enjoys, though, is the systems work, computer work and handling of the emergencies that arise. 
As a crewmember on STS-32, Wetherbee was aboard the Orbitor Columbia which brought the Long Duration Exposure Facility (LDEF) back to earth in early January. 
The LDEF had spent over five years in space, and contained the experiments of scientists throughout the world. Medical tests were performed on the crewmembers as well, to monitor the body's reaction to certain conditions in space. 
One reason for the tests, Wetherbee said, was to be adequately knowledgeable of the effects of space travel so that future shuttles could stay up for longer periods of time. 
The space shuttle, unlike Soviet crafts or those of the Apollo era, manually controls its own landing, he said, so it is important to know how the body adapts to changing altitude in order to know how to land most safely. 
The LDEF provided information that will improve the design of satellites and space stations in the future, Wetherbee, said, because it showed the degree that the materials with which it was constructed are able to hold up in space. 
Video equipment brought on the flight was used to film footage will appear in the movie "The Blue Planet." 
On his flight, Wetherbee brought a medal that was awarded to an ND professor in 1925 for his work in aeronautics, including the design of gliders and naval airplanes. The medal bears a picture of a glider flying around the golden dome. 
Wetherbe.e brought two pairs of drumsticks into space, one of which belongs to his wife, and medallions belonging to family members, which were stamped with information about the flight of the shuttle, then returned to his family, he said. 
He also brought an ND 1988 National Championship bumper sticker into space, and presented it to Lou Holtz on Tuesday, he said. 
A 1974 graduate with a bachelor's degree in aerospace engineering, Wetherbee said he felt that his education had prepared him well for the work he did in engineering prior to becoming an astronaut. 
He said that although he had wanted to be an astronaut since he was ten years old, by the time he went to Notre Dame he had little hope of doing so, given the high competitiveness of the field. 
Wetherbee said he will return to work Monday, and will serve as weather coordinator for upcoming shuttle missions this year, receiving input from weather airplanes around the world to determine if weather conditions are conducive to launch. 
When not occupied in this role, he said, he will work as landing rollout coordinator, in charge of improving landing rollout systems on the orbitor, a job that will include use of his engineering skills. 
Wetherbee said he hopes to return to space in "a couple of years." His name is now at the end of the list, he said, as astronauts are sent in 

areas of the deforestation in rotations and his flight was so 
IBmril, wet::=~·~ross + 

OUTRAGEOUS DISPLAY OF TALENTS••• 
sponsored by the freshmen end senior classes 
CALL RAUL AT 1515 OR LEAVE A MESSAGE AT 1622 
Thursday, March 22, 1990

page 6 The Observer 
Eleven others will join Cosby for graduation ceremonies 
Special to The Observer 
Eleven additional honorary degree recipients will join entertainer and author Bill Cosby as participants in the University of Notre Dame's 145 Commencement Exercises May 
20. Cosby was announced earlier as the Commencement speaker and recipient of an honorary doctor of laws degree. 
The others to be honored are: 
--Hutherford Aris, regents' professor of Chemical Engineering at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, doctor of engineering. A native of Bournemouth, England, and holder of bachelor's and doctoral degrees from the University of London, Aris taught at the University of Edinburgh for more than 20 years before joining the faculty at Minnesota. He has been a National Science Foundation senior fellow, a Guggenheim fellow, and has received teaching awards from the Danforth Foundation and the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. 
--Father George Clements, pastor of Holy Angels Church, Chicago, doctor of laws. A Chicago native and longtime civil rights activist, Father Clements was the first black graduate of the archdiocese's Quigley Seminary. Ordained in 1957, he marched at Selma, helped to found the Afro­American Patrolmen's League in the Chicago Police Department, and in 1980 attracted national attention when he adopted the first of his four sons. More recently, he has organized neighborhood protests against drug dealing, inspiring passage of an Illinois state law prohibiting the sale of drug paraphernalia. 
--Jill Conway, visiting professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,, Cambridge, Mass. and former president of Smith College, doctor of laws. Born on a sheep ranch in the Australian Outback, Conway received her bachelor's degree in history from the University of Sydney before coming to North America and earning her doctorate at Harvard University. At the University of Toronto from 1964-75, she rose from lecturer to associate professor and vice president. She was president of Smith College from 1975-1985, at the same time serving as Sophia Smith Professor of History. In addition to her scholarly works, she is the author of "The Hoad to Coorain," an autobiography of her early years. 
--Ernest Eliel, the W.R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of Chemistry, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, doctor of science. After receiving his doctorate from the University of Illinois in 1948, Eliel joined the Notre Dame faculty, teaching chemistry until 1972 and serving as chairman of the department from 1964-67. A native of Cologne, Germany, he specializes in organic chemistry· and is the author of "Stereochemistry of Carbon Compounds," regarded as a seminal text in its field. He is a former Guggenheim fellow, a member of the National Academy of Sciences and chairman of the board of the American Chemical Society. 

--Suzanne Farrell, ballerina, recently retired from the New York City Ballet, doctor of laws. Farrell was one of the first Ford Foundation scholars at the School of American Ballet to be accepted into the school's parent company, the New York City Ballet. A member of the company from 1961-69 and again beginning in 1974, she was called "the perfect interpreter of Colgate University in 1957 and immediately joined Time. After serving as publisher of Sports Illustrated, he led Time's video group, including HBO, as it grew from the smallest to the largest of the firm's three divisions. He was elected president and chief executive officer in 1980 and was named chairman in 1986. His civic activities include service on the boards of Junior Achievement and the United Negro College Fund. 
--Javier CU1:1llar, ·Secretary General of the United Nations, New York City, doctor of laws. The Peruvian lawyer and career diplomat, elected Secretary General in 1981, is the first Latin American to hold the office. In earlier service as special representative of his predecessor, Kurt Waldheim, Cuellar had helped to ease tensions between Greece and Turkey over Cyprus and 
between Pakistan and 
Afghanistan following the 
invasion of the latter by the 
Soviet Union. He has been 
widely praised for his efforts to 
reinforce the UN's role in 
peacekeeping as well as for his 
personal peace initiatives 
concerning the Falkland 
Islands, Afghanistan and 
Namibia. 
--A. Kenneth Pye, president of Southern Methodist University, Dallas, doctor of laws. Pye, a New York City native, was graduated from the University of Buffalo in 1951 and holds his J.D. and LL.M degrees from Georgetown University. He was professor of law at Georgetown from 1955-66. During a long association with Duke University, he served as professor of law, as university counsel and as director of international studies and was twice dean of the law school, twice chancellor of the university and its acting president. In August 1987 he was chosen the ninth president of Southern Methodist. 
--Martha Seger, member of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C., doctor of Balanchine's works" and also created roles for Jerome Robbins. From 1970-74 she performed with Maurice Bejart's Ballet du XXieme Siecle, creating roles in his "Les Fleurs du Mal" and "Nijinsky, Clown de Dilm," among other. She is a winner of the Emmy and Golden Plate awards. 
--Emil Hofman, retiring dean of the Freshman Year of Studies and professor emeritus of chemistry at Notre Dame, doctor of science. As a graduate student, teacher, and dean, Hofman has been associated with the University for 40 years and has had a particularly close association with freshmen students. As many as a thousand freshman each year took his course in general chemistry. In 1963 he was selected the first recipient of the Thomas P. Madden Award for excellence in teaching freshmen, and he has occupied the position of dean of the Freshmen Year of Studies since 1971. 
--Ignacio Lozano, editor-in­chief of La Opinion, Los Angeles, and a Notre Dame trustee, doctor of laws. A native of San Antonio, Lozano received his journalism degree from Notre Dame in 1947 and immediately joined the staff of La Opinion, the most widely read Spanish language daily printed in the United States. Appointed American ambassador to El Salvador in 1976, he served in that post until the following year, when he returned to the newspaper. He was named a member of Notre Dame's board of trustees in May 1983. 
--J. Richard Munro, chairman and chief executive officer of Time, Inc., New York City, doctor of laws. After serving with the U.S. Marines in Korea, where he was awarded the Purple Heart with two clusters, Munro was graduated from laws. 

Lithuania 
continued from page 1 
tary Marlin Fitzwater. 
Gorbachev demanded that na­tional and local governments ensure that Soviet law and the rights of citizens be observed and called for KGB border troops to increase security on Lithuania's section of the Soviet border. It ordered the govern­ment to "tighten control over issuance to foreigners of visas and permission to visit Lithua­nia." 
That move apparently was aimed at many ethnic Lithuani­ans, who have returned recently to help set up an independent government and market econ­omy in the republic. 
Lithuania's parliament voted overwhelmingly March 11 to break away from the Soviet Union and regain the indepen­dence it had before being forcibly annexed by the Kremlin in 1940, along with the other 
SEcURITY auT 

TUESDAY, MARCH 20 
11 :35 a.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported that his vehicle had been van­dalized while parked in the D-1 lot. Un· known person(s) had slashed a tire sometime between 3/18 and 3/19. Damage is estimated at $180. 
1:44 p.m. An oH campus student re· ported the theft of her purse and con­tents from the second floor of the law building. 
1:49 p.m. Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of an accident at the dock of the Hesburgh Library. The van fell from the dock to the ramp below. The driver of the van was transported to the Health Center. Damages to the van are unknown at this time. 
5:52 p.m. Notre Dame Police found two vehicles had been pushed from their parking spaces in D-2 into the aisle by an unknown vehicle. Some damage was incurred to both vehicles. 
7:45 p:m. An Alumni Hall resident re­ported that his vehicle had been dam­aged while it was parked in the D-1 lot over Spring Break. Damages were mi· nor. 
Baltic republics of Estonia and A draft law outlying require-
Latvia. ments for secession passed its 
Those republics have since first legislative hurdle in 
elected parliaments dominated Moscow on Wednesday. 
by pro-independence legislators Deputies said the secession 
but have not declared indepen-procedure, which requires a re­
dence. public-wide referendum and a
'/.////./././ ./ ./ ./ ./ ./ ./ ./ ./ ./ ./ ./ ,~,../ ./ .///./1 
~ ~ ~at ~ 
~ 
I. 
~ 
I 
~ 
~ 

"?1€1'Drl1f ~ ~U1t871 ~ , _ . . . -· _ ... ~ ill~~~~ :~':::::::';=:~:::;:::;:~;:;;:;;;:=::::;;~ I. 
~CLUBI ~ 
~ 
I. 
~ 

Croissants, Subs 1. Pizza's, Nachos ~ 
r-----------,1. I. 
I. Beverages and Beverages ~ ~ I. 
~ Noon _ ~
2 

/.,///./././././././././/././././//.//.//.//./~ 
' : . • • 
•••••••111!••111!.... 
COLLEG~, 
GRADUATE 
FINANCE 
PLAN 

Jordan's Auto Mall 
YOU DESERVE 
SOME CREDIT. 609 E. Jefferson 
Mishawaka
YOU'VE EARNED IT. 
(219) 259-1981 

transition period of up to five 
years, would have  to  be ob­ 
served by Lithuania.  
But  Lithuanian  legislator  

Vaidotas Antanaitis said it did not affect his republic. "The bill doesn't apply to us, we've al­ready left," he said. 
On Capitol Hill in Washing­ton, meanwhile, more than 100 congressmen sent President Bush a letter Wednesday urging that Lithuania be recognized as an independent nation. 


is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Accounts Payable Manager Accounts Receivable Manager Purchasing Manager 
for more information contact Kathleen O'Connor at 239-7471 or 283-2570 
Sophomores and Freshmen 
HILOSOPHY: 
Meet Your Majors 
Sunday, March 25th 8:00 -9:00 pm Room 204 O'Shag 
REFRESHMV SERVED 
For further information contact: Prof. David Solomon Room 337 O'Shag, 7534 

Thursday, March 22, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
Census Bureau attempts to count America's homeless 
(AP) After sending 15,000 workers into camps and caves, streets and shelters, the Census Bureau declared success Wednesday in its first-ever tally of the nation's homeless. But critics found fresh ammunition to charge that the special cen­sus failed to do its job. 
Census workers, many of them homeless themselves, en­dured gunfire, robbery, insults and foul weather to count the number of Americans with no fixed address. Past guesses have ranged from 250,000 to 3 million. 
The results won't be an­nounced until late 1991, and the debate. over the census will continue until then and beyond. It was framed again Wednesday by two men on opposite sides of the country. 
"It's just the people in their ivory tower drinking their mint juleps and counting noses," said George Whitney, a resident of Baloney Joe's shelter in Portland, Ore. "Nobody can help the homeless because no­body understands the problem. 
In New York, Dwayne Mays stood up for the census, in which he participated both as a counter and as one of the counted. He, too, is homeless. 
"Hopefully, it will let people realize there is a whole popula­tion of homeless people that is not dehumanized, still main­tains self-respect and self-es­teem, that is living in conditions that are abhorrent," Mays said. "We're here, and we are counted now." 
Not all the homeless were counted, though, even by the Census Bureau's assessment. In some cases, homeless people avoided the census takers; in others, they were apparently overlooked. 
In Manchester, N.H., census takers failed to count a man who was sleeping on the steps of City Hall -he was outside their survey area. 

In San Diego County, Calif., a group of farmworkers in a mi­grant camp said a team of Cen­sus "enumerators" walked past them without stopping to count. 
In New York City, reporters watched Census workers mill around a newsstand on the ground floor of the Port Au­thority bus terminal, apparently avoiding the upper floors where hundreds of homeless sleep. Census officials insisted they had canvassed · the entire station. 
The Census Bureau spent $2.7 million on the homeless count, which it carried out between 6 

p.m. Tuesday and 8 a.m. Wednesday in every city with a population over 50,000. 
In several cities, Census workers said homeless people had vanished from their usual spots, apparently to avoid the government. 
"That tells us something," said Don Weese, manager of the Census Bureau office in Tulsa, Okla. "It tells us there's a large segment of that home­less population that simply does not want to be recognized, known or encountered at all." 
Still, the officials defended their effort and said it would provide a valuable "snapshot" of the state of the homeless. 
The issue is politically impor­tant because federal money goes to cities and states on the ba~s of population. Urban leaders have been fuming for a decade, saying the Census Bu­reau ignored most of the home­less in the 1980 census. 
"Shelter and Street Night ap­pears to have been a success," Census Bureau Director Bar­bara Bryant said. "I believe our efforts have given us a good start on achieving our goal of a full and fair census of the American people." 
Bryant conceded that Census workers had missed some shelters and other home­less hangouts, and would have to try again Wednesday night in 

For Information Call 
234-2718 
• 

a handful of cities. They in­cluded Washington, New York, Philadelphia and Cleveland. 
Critics found nothing in the tally to change their view. 
"You can't use this census with any degree of legitimacy," said Mitcb Snyder, an advocate for the homeless in Washing­ton. "Politicians can use these figures to say anything that they want ... because there's no way that you can legitimately count how many homeless peo­ple that are in this city or in this country." 
For the most part, the census was carried out as planned. There were some frightening moments, however. 
In New York City, a group of Census workers scattered when a gunshot was fired from a building they were approaching in Brooklyn. They weren't in­jured, and Census officials said it wasn't clear whether they were the targets. 
In Oklahoma City, police turned back two Census work­ers who unwittingly stumbled onto a stakeout. 

"They were just told the bad guys are loose, and it wasn't pursuant to what those two were doing, and to take a hike," said John Prince, a local Census official. 
In Fort Lauderdale, Fla., two Census workers were robbed at knife point by a man in a home­less shelter. Neither was in­jured. 
The mishaps underscored the unenviable nature of the task. Bryant, the Census director, said she hoped the first homeless census also would be the last. 

"I hope that the numbers we got last night and the charac­teristics of the people we found will provide the information that program planners need to solve this problem," she said. "Our goal is not to be out there in the year 2000." 
Survey shows jump in 
educational interests 
BOSTON (AP) -A new survey month at the association's an­
indicates a jump in interest in nual meeting. 
teaching, which fell on hard Explanations for the overall 
times in the early 1980s after surge vary but the numbers 
word got around that the only come as no surprise to admis­
thing tougher than finding a sions officers, who said they 
teaching job was living on the have seen a gradual but con­
salary. stant increase in enrollment 
Enrollment in the nation's each of the last five years. 
teaching programs rose by 61 The average number of edu­percent between 1985 and 1989 cation-degree candidates en­and the figure would have been roiTed at 90 u.s. colleges ana higher had all those who ap­universities surveyed randomly 
plied been accepted, according went from 520 to 835 between to an unpublished study by the 1985-88, the study said. American Association of Col­Administrators at teachingleges for Teacher Education. programs around the nation 
"As someone who makes his attributed improved enrollment living teaching people to be largely to the exposure throughteachers, I'm ecstatic!" said the mid-1980s of serious prob­Gary Galluzzo, an associate lems in the U.S. education sys­
professor at Western Kentucky tem. University and co-chair of the Many parents tuned in to the study. trouble when a National Geo­
And there's more good news. graphic-sponsored Gallup poll
While the perennially popular in July 1988 indicated Ameri­social studies have held steady, cans ranked among the bottom the interest in teacher-poor third in an international test of 
subjects such as math and geographic knowledge, and science appear to be keeping those ages 18-24 came in last. 
apace. 
The issue was also signaledBut the progress is not all by President Bush's push for positive. Researchers said total the "Education Excellency Act enrollments may have skyrock­of 1989" and projections that eted, but elementary and sec­the demand for teachers would ondary school teachers are still exceed by 1 million the supply
mostly white and female. needed between 1988 and 1995. Minority participation in 
Pragmatic incentives have schools of education exceeds 15 also spurred potential teaching percent in only six states while degree candidates. Salaries 33 states had minority enroll­have risen, and encouragingments of 20 percent or more, 

educational reforms have 

according to the survey, which slowly taken root, education 
presented in Chicago last researchers said. 

Business 
page 8 Thursday, March 22, 1990 
Chinese milit., schools get mo but financial situation remains 'grave' 
still have final authority on major issues. 

BEIJING (AP)-China's mili-lure's 2,700 delegates accepted tary, schools and insolvent the resignation of senior leader state-run enterprises will get Deng Xiaoping from his last more money this year, but government post -chairman other sectors will have to cut of the state Central Military back as the nation faces an-Commission. other year in the red, the fi-Deng, 85, retired in November nance minister said Wednesday. from his last Communist Party 
Wang Bingqian said in a re-post, which was as head of the port to the National People's party's Central Military Congress that "the present fi-Commission. His resignation nancial situation remains from the state body was ex­grave, with many contradic-pected, and party chief Jiang lions and great difficulties Zemin is expected to be named cropping up in national fi-his successor. nance." Although Deng now holds no 
Also Wednesday, the Jegisla-official posts, he is believed to 
Court case preventing seizure of S&L threatens Bush bailout plan 
WASHINGTON (API -In a Lamberth ruled that both ease that could derail President thrift office director Salvatore Bush's savings and Joan Martoche and his predecessor, bailout, a federal judge M. Danny Wall, :-vere unconst~­Wednesday barred thrift regu-tutionally appmnted. lie s~Id lators from seizing an ailing the government cannot seize lllinois institution. the suburban Chicago thrift un-
U.S. District Judge Hoycc til a new director is constitu-Lamberth issued a preliminary tionally appointed. . injunction forbidding the Trea-Late Wednesday. the Judge sury Department's Office of rejected a government request Thrift Supervision from taking to stay his order. Thrift agency control of Olympic Federal lawyers said they would appeal. Savings and Loan Association Lamberth stressed that his in Berwyn. Ill. order applies only to Olympic. 
The ruling came the same day But, in his 46-page opinion, he that a top S&L regulator said acknowledged: "This may lead the government planned to to a great deal of litigation and dramatically increase the pace place (the thrift office's) opera-of the bailout by selling or tions in some confusion." closing 140 institutions by the The decision could slow end of June. Bush's bailout by giving an es­timated 200 other thrifts be­lieved near failure the grounds to request a similar injunction. Hegulators had not moved to take over Olympic, but the thrift believed it was in immi­nent danger of seizure. 
The ruling also potentially calls into question, but not as strongly, the legality of the takeover of 137 thrifts. with $97 billion in assets, since Aug. 9, when Bush signed the bailout law. 
Earlier Wednesday, L. William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Resolution Trust Corp., spoke at the National Press Club about his plan to speed up the bailout in "Operation Clean Sweep." 
. Wang detailed China's finan-This year's deficit will be cml problems of the p~st year $1.89 billion, down slightly and warned that this year from last year's $2 billion, w?,uld be no ~e.tter. Wang said. 
The cond~twn o~ th~ state Education got a 9.8 percentbudget for this year IS gnm be-boost. cause during this period of The government will try to in­economic improvement and rec-crease revenues by raising tification, economic growth is business tax rates and improv­
slowing down," he said. ing collection of individual 
Wang said an austerity pro-earnings taxes, he told the leg­gram instituted in 1988 had islature. The revenues that local slowed down China's economy, governments must turn over to reducing revenues and compli-the state will be "moderately eating efforts to meet state increased," and subsidies to demands for a balanced bud-some regions will be reduced, get. Wang said. 
IRS takes public for seven billion dollars, Money says 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­Nearly half the 36 million letters the IRS mailed to taxpayers last year demand­ing additional tax and penalties were erroneous, Money magazine estimated Wednesday. 
Taxpayers confused by the law and afraid of challeng­ing the lnternal Revenue Service forked over $7 billion 
that they did  not owe,  the  
magazine concluded.  
"Clearly, individuals  are  

caving in to questionable demands for more money that would propel them to the phone in a second if the bill came from some bank or credit-card company," Money says in its April edi· tion. 
The magazine, building on 

Recipe for an enjoyable night at the Dinner Theater 
Ingredients -Buf!et_ style dinner catered by Spaghetti Works -Nell Simon's "Last of the Red Hot Lovers" performed by a national touring company, Repertory Theater of America 
-Good friends 

-A great deal. $6.00 for dinner and show 
Directions 

Mix all the ingredients together 
on March 26, 6:30 p.m. at the Alumni Senior Club 
(no cooking required) and ENJOY!!! 
Ticket sales start March 20th at the LaFortune Information Desk 
ALL AGES WELCOME 
a 1988 study by the General 
Accounting Oflice, an arm of 
Congress. interviewed 
lawyers, tax aceountants 
and IHS officials in reaching 
those eonclusions. 
Last month, Money polled 
300 of its subscribers {with 
a median income over 
$52,000 a year) and found 
ttwt at sometime in their 
lives, half had receivnd IRS 
bills for more taxes and 
penalties.
The telephone poll had an 
error margin of plus or mi­
nus 6 percental!e points. 

Another key factor, ac­knowledged by the IRS: an aging computer system. The IRS has begun a plan, which could cost $8 billion and take eight years to complete, to modernize its 1960s com­
utE>rs. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Viewpoint
Thursday, March 22, 1990 page 9 
-Ihe-Obset:ver -­
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks 
Managing Editor John O'Bnen 
News Edilor....................... Kelley Tuth•ll Viewpoint Edllor ............... Michelle Dall Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Accent Editor................. Colleen Cronin Photo Editor ......................... Enc Ba1ley Saint Mary's Editor ........ Connne Pavlis 
Business Manager Kathleen O'Connor 
Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager............ Amy Eckert Production Manager ........Joe Zadrozny Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenmnkmeyer OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Controller....................... Chris Anderson 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univers•ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the polic1es of the admm•strat1on of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and obfectively as poSSible Uns•gned editonals represent the opinion of the ma1onty of the Editor-m·Ch1ef. Managmg Editor. News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. and Samt Mary's Editor Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present the v1ews of the authors. Column space IS available to all members of the commumty and the tree express1on of varymg op1nions on campus through letters. 15 encouraged 


Seeking a caffeine fix endangers health 
By Michael Martino 
Coffee, Mountain Dew, Coke, No-Doze. Whatever the source, most of us employ caffeine as a valuable study tool. Our bodies just can't meet the demands we place on them otherwise. But let's stop the merry-go-round for just a second and take a behind-the-scenes look at ex­actly what we are doing to our bodies when trying to squeeze out that extra hour of produc­tivity. 
Bob is a typical Domer. Bob has had a really tough day: after sleeping off a hangover until 4 p.m., he managed to get to the dining hall, and then played basketball for two hours. Bob came back to the dorm, watched "Cheers" {a must), tried out some new lines from Sammy on his girlfriend (unsuccessfully) and then took a nap. Now it's 11:30, and Bob has a test tomorrow. Bob's a cool cat, so he doesn't panic. lie just proudly announces to his roommates that he's going to pull an all-nighter. Good thinking, Bob. 

Thirty minutes later, Bob's all set. He's got his study baseball cap, his headphones and -of course -his Mountain Dew. After belching ferociously, Bob knows his Mountain Dew is taking effect. What Bob doesn't know is that he now has an ir­regular and rapid heartbeat. No biggie, most of us would agree. As Bob starts his second can of Dew, he also experiences shaky hands, confusion and lack of concentration. "Gosh," says Bob, "this stuff is impos­sible." 
Frustrated, Bob bags the whole deal and goes to bed. "If I get at least six hours of sleep, I'll be more awake for my test," he rationalizes. Survey says, "BUZZ." Bob also doesn't know that he can't turn caffeine off as easily as he turned it on. Bob's body is in an excited state, and in no condition to sleep. After six hours of poor sleep, Bob falls out of bed, exhausted, to struggle through his test. 
If used over an extended pe~ riod (like Finals Week), caffeine can cause dehydration, since it requires so much water to be excreted. Dehydration can lead to exhaustion, lack of motiva­tion and sometimes sickness. Caffeine is also a carcinogen and is suspected to directly lower immunity to more com­mon illnesses, like flu. If Bob were a woman, daily use of caf­feine would increase his chance of a miscarriage. 
Like most short-term solu­tions, caffeine may look attrac­tive, but is actually damaging in the long-run. As Bob found out, caffeine isn't even so great in the short-term. So the next time you reach for some caf­feine, please remember how harmful its effects can be. 
Michael Martino is a member of the American Chemical Society ofStudent Affiliates 
LETTERS 

Intolerance and prejudice generate homophobia 
Dear Editor: many studies is that ten percent participant to mistakenly mark with homosexual people rests his organization, the US Air
A letter from Mr. John D. of all people, regardless of the other box.) with the intolerant and irra­Force ROTC, is being bannedWarren (The Observer, March race, religion or socio-eco­
tional attitudes held by the expressly for its discriminatory
8) shows once again the misun­nomic status, are gay. The question of percentages larger society, not with the gay policies against gay people.derstanding of homosexuality If Mr. Warren does not trust really is irrelevant. Whether people themselves. Following the lead of severalthat plagues not just the Notre the Kinsey survey, one of the it's one, five, ten or seventy This year alone, I have talked Ivy League schools, Northwest­Dame community, but America most prominent, thorough and percent and whether there are with sociology, psychology and ern University, University ofin general. respected surveys conducted one, ten or one thousand gay freshman seminar classes Wisconsin at Madison and
Mr. Warren raised issue with since Kinsey was by Bell, Wein­people on this campus is imma­about homosexuality, reaching Washington University in St.
the recent advertising of the berg and Hammersmith (Sexual terial. What is important is over three hundred people on Louis, for example, are consid­
group Gays and Lesbians at Preference, 1982). Their that people begin to become the two campuses. Although I ering suspending the ROTCNotre Dame/Saint Mary's Col­meticulous ten-year study con­sensitized to the fact that there by no means claim to have re­programs due to the Armedlege and a letter from Mr. J. firmed that approximately ten are gay and lesbian people moved all traces of homophobia Forces' policy of discrimination Michael Leger regarding Cam-percent of the American popu­around, that our homosexuality from the people I spoke with, I and harassment of gay ser­pus Ministry's recent lation is homosexual. is not the result of any decision did recognize a significant vicemen and women."informational" articles. Even if Mr. Warren discards (conscious or otherwise) and change in attitude in each of Despite the common view that Although I will not presume to these scientific surveys, can he that gay people want and de­the classes I met with. This Notre Dame is a conservative,rebut for Mr. Leger, I would still make his ludicrous claim serve to be treated equally and shows me, the professors and closed-minded school, I believe 
like to clear the smokescreen that "every study since (Kinsey) with the respect due all people. the students that the key to a majority of its students and
laid by Mr. Warren. has shown the numbers near As for his claim that the dys­conquering this hatred and fear educators hold more educated one or two percent" in light of functional family is the cause of of gay people is to begin to un­views on homosexuality thanFirstly, Mr. Warren attacks the 1987 survey taken on the homosexuality, I again point to derstand them. Most of the those espoused by Mr. Warren.the "2% of Americans Ballroom Notre Dame campus in which the Bell, Weinberg and Ham­people in the classes had never Still, I feel compelled to con­
Dance" ad on the grounds that live percent of the respondents mersmith study which met or known a gay person be­tinue to fight ignorance andhomosexuality is not an exer­described themselves as homo­painstakingly examined and fore--many were shocked and misinformation whenever it ap­cise like the other live things sexual or bisexual? (It might then discarded the strong­surprised to lind out just how pears, because I am convincedlisted. Well, of course it isn't, be added that the five percent mother/ weak-father model, as normal we are. 
that is the best way to bring an
but the point of the ad was to figure can only be too low. It is well as all theories based on the Perhaps part of Mr. Warren's end to baseless hatred andshow that a good number of clear why gay respondents may quality of the parent's mar­anxiety about homosexuality prejudice.Americans--in fact more than be anxious to label themselves-­riage, birth order, sibling rela­stems from the fact that, on a 
are bowlers, golfers or ball­fear of discovery or uncer­tionships, and unconscious growing number of campuses, Mike W Miller 
room dancers--are gay. The tainty--but there is absolutely conditioning by the parents. gay and lesbian group are being 
316 Stanford Hall 
number commonly accepted by no .reason for a heterosexual The whole of the "problem" welcomed and accepted, while 15 March 1990 
DOONESBURY 
I GU£93/FMY MU5/C SOIJNlJ5 A I M&AN, IAIHAT'5 THe "CLA55/ClJT'Tle {}/FffiREWT NOW, MARK, 
f?OCI<"AU{)feNCl3 -25 TO 54~ 
IT'S 8tt:AU58 I'M {)fFFeReNT. 54r THINK OF7HAT1Plt'R&TAU<.­I'M NO LONG#: A K/l?tXJRIT/NG /N(3 ABOUTANENTIKEI-Y OIFF&R­FOR ANO ABOUTOTHeR KllJS. 
IiNT 5eT OF CONaRN5 NOW.' 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
W&U, UK&, MY FAN5 t/K/3 AI?& 8136/NNING 70 WHAT? HAV£3 71-fl3/R. FIRST 
I 
HliAI<TATTACK<;,. I 
HAV£3 70 5PeAJ<. TO 7Hirr!"-.. 

'The bond that links your true family is not one of blood, but of respect and joy in each other's life. Rarely do members of one family grow up under the same roof.' 
Richard Bach Illusions 

Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, March 22, 1990 
in ruling 
On Feb. 28, the Supreme Court decided to a 6 to 3 vote in 
U.S. v. Verdugo-Urquidez that the Fourth Amendment doesn't apply to foreigners outside of America. This decision has re­ceived a lot of criticism both in­side and outside America. The Court has been accust~d of cow­ardice, laek of respect for the rights of non-Americans and even racism (the decision will have its greatest impact on non-white Latin AmP.rican dru~ dealers). llowP.ver. the Court had excellent reasons for deeid­ing the way it did. 
Before discussing the legal Iogie of the Court, a short re­view of what is actually decided is in order. The Fourth Amendment protects the right of "the people" to be freed from "unreasonable searches and seizures," and forces the policP. to get warrants before search­ing in most situations. The Court decided that "the people" refers only to American citizens or pP.ople who are in America. 
Therefore, AmP.rican law en­forcement agm1ts operating outside America's borders aren't subject to Fourth Amendment restrictions, except when they are stmrching Ameri­can eitizens or their property. There is nothing to stop DEA agents in Mexico, for instance, from making warrantless and unreasonable searches. 
The Supreme Court is not supposed to make sure that America's police act fairly or morally. It is supposed to make sure that they act constitution­ally. Thus, the decisive point for the Court in U.S. v. Ver-
In My Opinion 
By Rick Acker 
dugo-Urquidez was that "the available historical data show.. . that the purpose of the Fourth Amendment was to protect the people of the United States against arbitrary action by their own government; it was never suggested that the provi­sion was intended to restrain the actions of the Federal Gov­ernment against aliens outside the States." In other words, the question before the Court was not whether the Constitution should protect Verdugo-

Urquidez, but whether it was .._____ intended to protect him. Once power." The Constitution sets the Court determined the the rules; the Court merely en­Fourth Amendment wasn't forces them. meant to protect Verdugo-Some people think the Court Urquidez, it really had nothing should do more than just en­left to decide. force the rules. They argue the 
The Supreme Court is a lot Court should act as a sort of like a referee in a football national conscience which game. Heferees are supposed would stamp out injustice, not to lhoroughly understand and just illegality. They point out even-handedly enforce the rules the Constitution was written of football. Heferees are not over two hundred years ago for supposed to ignore the rules a small rural country, not a they don't like or make up new huge global superpower. They ones they think ought to have think the Court should prune been ineluded. Likewise, the and shape the Constitution to Supreme Court isn't supposed make it into a "living docu­to fiddle with the parts of the ment" which would reflect the Constitution it doesn't like or values and needs of today. They stick in new parts. The Court are wrong. recognized that, even if it The framers of the Constitu­wanted to enforce the fourth tion intentionally made it diffi­Amendment outside America's cult to change. A constitution, borders, "it is not open to us. . . they reasoned, should be a to endorse to view that every great, enduring constant. It constitutional provision applies should establish the basic pro­wherever the United States cess by which a nation's gov­Government exercised its ernment works and enshrine those few fundamental rights which are central to any civi­lized society. It should not change with every swing in the nation's mood. A constitution is a dam which must often hold back the floodwater's of popu­lar passion. Thus, it should not be something which can be changed quickly or easily. 
Moreover, the Constitution should only be changed by the people of the United States, not by nine unelected Justices. One of the central principles behind the Constitution is that the only ones who have the right to cre­ate laws are those to whom the people have delegated their lawmaking power: their elected representatives. The Supreme Court is appointed by the Presi­dent, not elected by the people. Thus, the Court has no right to change the law. This principle was recognized over two hun­dred years ago in the Federalist Papers (the semi-official eom­
mentaries to the Constitution). 
"The courts must declare the 
sense of the law; and if they 
should be disposed to exercise 
WILL instead of JUDGEMENT, 
the consequence would be sub­
stitution of their pleasure to 
that of the legislative body" 
(Federalist No. 78). 
Accordingly, the Supreme Court recognize in U.S. v. Ver­dugo-Urquidez that it wasn't the Court's plaee to extend the limits of the Fourth Amend­ment. In the last sentenee of the opinion, the Court said "if there are to be restrictions on searches and seizures which occur (outside America's bor­ders), they must be imposed by the political branches through diplomatic understanding, treaty, or legislation." Both Congress and the President are elected by the people and. therefore, have the power to extend the protections of the Fourth Amendment. The Court is unelected and, therefore, does not have such powers. 
The Supreme Court's deeision in U.S. v. Verdugo-Urquidez may not be very likable, but the Court had excellent reasons for deciding the way it did. The Court limited itself to determin­ing what the Fourth Amend­ment means, not what it should mean. By doing this, the Court recognized that the only parties who have the right to change the law are the people and their electnd representatives. 
Hick Acker is a first year law student and a regular View­point columnist. 
LETTERS 

Closed meeting denies student input in policy-making 
that the students showed ministrator then gave the Affairs, the office which will proeess. And I question
/Jear Hditor: 
themselves in such numbers at analogy of the cancelled be most greatly effected by yours. It is because of thisToday is a very important a Senate meeting. The meet­Freshman class formal, whose this bill, will even be able to type of political run-aroundday in tnnns of the future of ing was emotional. as this bill representatives were denied a attend this CLC meeting. The that we need the Bill of Uni­thn role of Notre Dame stu­is a bit controversial. proper discussion in the Office chances of the bill passing versity and Student Helationsdents in policy-making deci­Yet your elected officials of Student Affairs, because are, therefore, slim. The at the University of Notresions. The Student Govern­voted to unanimously approve those representatives arrived chances of having students Dame. I implorn you to re­ment Legal Department sub­it. Based on the success of the at Student Affairs without an participate in this meeting are main updated on the progressmitted a Bill of University and first real "open" Senate appointment. This failure to non-existent. Due to this of this bill by kenping tunedStudent Hnlations to the Stu­meeting, I recommended and follow office etiquette, in the manipulated political process, into The Observer articles, by
dent Senate on March 5, 1990. This bill induded the right to strongly urged that the Cam­administrator's own words, I am uncertain if this bill will writing to student govern­
pus Life Council meeting re­was the main reason the event be even seriously considered. ment, and by writing to Stu­
due process, to be judged by one's pners, to an open hear­main open as well. It would was absolutely cancelled from This is not due to the lack of dent Affairs. 
be a very large and powerful that point on, without discus­its preparation. Nor is it dueing, to not be collectively pun­statement to the administra­sion. to lack of student interest. Megan M. !lines
ished. to free speech and tion that not only are students In fact, it is tenuous at this I question, as a three year Executive Coordinatorpress, and other inalienable willing to take on the respon­very moment whether or not a participant in student govern­Legal Department rights. 
sibilities advocated in the bill, representative from Student ment, my role in this political March 21,1990In essence, this document but that they are also willinggrants students increased re­to come and personally makesponsibility in an adult, fra­claims to it -to show that 
Religion stressed enough at CSCternal society. The Student 
the student body is not apa­Senate passed this document thetic. Dear Editor: the Council for the Hetardeo affiliated with the CSC, and I

with unanimous consent. 
However, the student body Tom Kelly, in his letter to the and Foodshare, offer excellent have found this participationUsual procedure allows then has been denied this privilege. editor (The Observer, March opportunities for those who immensely rewarding. 
for the bill to proceed to Fr. 
The student body president 20), says that "the mission of wish to live out their faith I am not Christian, however;Tyson's desk (for an unclear has the ultimate power to de­the Center for Social Concerns through service to others or in fact, when I first enteredpurpose; he is not bound by cide who will attend CLC would be more fully accom­social action. Notre Dame, l was very hostilethe decisions of Senate) ac­meetings. Due to the empha­plished by emphasizing the I do not see how making the to religion. If the CSC had beencompanied by an explanatory sis on maintining order within faith in dealing with issues of CSC more exclusively Christian presented to mn as primarily a cover letter from our student the meeting and feared politi­peace and social justice." He would help religiously moti­place to help me deepen mybody prnsident, Matt Breslin. 
cal consequences, Mr. Breslin suggests the esc places "the vated students. Most Notre faith, I definitely would haveln addition, this bill is being has decided that the meeting least possible emphasis on do­Dame students are intelligent been turned off. In faet, I prob­proposed to the Campus Life will remain closed. But the is­ing such (social) work as a enough to figure out that ser­ably would have viewed it as yet
Couneil today at 4:30 p.m. The Campus Life Council (CLC) sues discussed at this meeting statement of one's faith." vice to others could deepen another example of what I then 
will affect every Notre Dame The CSC does not put too their faith without being told thought of as religion's smug­
is composed of students, 
student. As such, each indi­small a stress on faith. Fur­that this is the main mission of ness and exclusiveness. Instead,faculty, rectors and adminis­vidual deserves the right to thermore, more heavily empha­the CSC. The service that they I've gained a lot of respeet fortrators and meets a few times have the opportunity for per­sizing faith would help neither would be doing, and their moti­the people I've met through theeach semester. If this bill sonal input. Is this a closed those who do service because of vation for doing it, would re­esc who are honestly and self­were to be approved by this meeting or an exclusionary their faith nor those who do so main the same regardless of lessly trying to live out theirbody, it would again pass to 
gathering? for other motives. whether the CSC's mission is faith.
the desk of Fr. Tyson. At this I was told by an administra­Kelly writes, "The CSC could defined in religious terms. Issues of justice and peacepoint, fir. Tyson has veto tor, who agreed with be a wonderful place for young On the other hand, making can concern those of all reli­power to determine the future Breslin about the attendence people to live out their faith," the CSC's mission explicitly re­gious persuasions. The CSCof the bill's fate. 
at the meeting, that it shall but esc is already "a wonderful ligious would repel many of comes closer to the University'sSome of you may have no­remain closed in order to place for young people to live those students who wish to do Catholic mission by being wel­ticed the advertisements in avoid confrontation. For out their faith." Many of the service work or social action coming to all those who wish toThe Observer prior to the Se­anything that is confronta­groups affiliated with the esc. for secular reasons. help others--whether they arenate meeting. Student Senate tional will not pass for that such as Pax Christi and CILA, I know this through my own religiously motivated or not.
meetings were always open to mere fact. What kind of polit­have explicitly Christian orien­experience. I have been lucky Tim O'Keefethe student body. However, ical process denies the right tations. Even those groups that enough to participate in some Sorin Hallthe March 5 meeting was the of confrontation? This ad-are not explicitly Christian, like of the activities and groups March 20, 1990first time in which I am aware 
_:;.,.._ 
Accent
Thursday, March 22, 1990 page 11 
Special effects play a major role in movie version of Clancy's "Hunt for Red October" 
Joe Bucolo 
To Be Continued ... 

Let the hunt begin! Tom Clancy's incredible novel "The Hunt for Red October" is currently making a sweep of the nation in the form of the season's most thrilling motion picture. 
Sean Connery stars as Marko Ramius, a Russian submarine captain in charge of the U.S.S.R.'s most secret weapon: The Red October. In the style of the Stealth Bomber, the Red October is able to cruise at high speeds below sea level without being detected by other vessels. 
Viewers immediately get a vodka-like taste of Ramius' true characters as he kills a Russian official and directs the Red October on a mission all his own. This act obviously disturbs and worries other Russian leaders, who warn the U.S. government that the Red October may be a threat to America's East Coast. 
Alec Baldwin stars as Jack Ryan, the CIA's version of Indiana Jones. Driven by his own instinct and intuition, Jack sets out to find the Red October and, as he does, manages to discover Ramius' true inten­tions. 
Jack's duty as a CIA agent puts him in some Courtney B. Vance (left), as sonar operator Ronald Jones, attentively tracts Red October while Scott Glenn (Captain Bart unpredictable and exciting situations. He finds Mancuso) looks over his shoulder. himself hanging from a helicopter, chasing a crazed 
Courtesy of Paramount Pictures gunman, and even helping the supposed enemy. All these scenes greatly contribute to Jack's likability and the film's fast-paced nature. 
In addition to Connery, Baldwin, James Earl Jones, ­and Sam Neill, the film has another star-its special effects. The scenes in the film will amaze the audience. Mouths will surely drop open at first sight of the massive Red October. From that point until the fantastic explosion below the ocean's surface in the film's climactic scene, viewers will enjoy a visual extravaganza. 
There are a few highly technical terms which may confuse viewers that are thrown about during the film, but these skeptical moments are easily over­looked in the face of "Red October's" explosive plotline. Filmakers also performed an outstanding job tackling the language problem that arises since half the film's characters are Russian. 
Next to its adventure sequences, the film's excellent sense of character is its best asset. Viewers come to learn a great deal about Ramius' past and mindset as he recites quotes from great thinkers and attempts to carry out his controversial plan. In fact, the film does such a wonderful job building characters that audi­ences really grow to like the Russian characters, especially Captain Borodin (Sam Neill). who desires to live in a cabin in Montana. 
"The Hunt for Red October" is the thriller of the year. With outstanding performances by all its stars 
Sean Connery (standing) playing the Soviet captain of the Red October, Marko Ramius; and Alec Baldwin playing the and an intricately adventurous plotline, this is one 
CIA analysis Jack Ryan, contemplate a tactical move. "Hunt" everyone should join. 
'Rhythm Nation 1814' 
Jackson's new album states message 
lyrics, written by a self-assured the struggle for liberation and and self-sufficient adult, and unity under a "common vision," 
YOLANDA KNIGHT 
sung to the funky bass lines while providing slammin' bass 
accent writer 
that are the mark of the pro­rhythms ideal for dancing. duction team of James Harris The ballads featured on the
"In completo darknoss. we III ( Jimmy Jam) and Terry album continue to supportaro all the same. It is only our 
Lewis. Jackson' s effort at reachingknowledge and wisdom that Her current release, "Rhythm out. "Living in a World (They separate us. Don't let your eyes Nation 1814," also the fruit of Didn't Make)" is a song dedi­decoive you." 
the Harris and Lewis produc­cated to the innocent children Those are the words spoken tion crew, expands her image to who inherit a world "filled with by the woman whom most of us a woman who has learned to hate." Her love songs, "Come remember as syrupy Penny on transcend the self. Jackson, Back to Me" and "Lonely," illus­the television show "Good through this album, has shown trate her willingness to go be­Times," or the "girl next door" a more intense consciousness, yond herself in response to theas Willis' girlfriend on not only of herself, but of the need for human companion­"Different Strokes." However. 
condition of the world. ship.

Janet Jackson has shed her The title track emphasizes Janet Jackson's "Rhythm bubble gum image and traded it the need for the eradication of Nation 1814 is truly a sign of for one that is more mature, ignorance, which leads to prej­growth. She is presently mak­assertive, and according to her udice. This elimination can oc­ing her mark on the music in­latest album, more universal. 
cur through music, which, ac­dustry and is using her talentsJackson began shaping her cording to Jackson, has no responsibly to convey a mes­new image with her 1987 re­color lines. "Knowledge," and sage that can be heard by mil­lease "Control," which was "State of the World," describe lions.
characterized by aggressive 


-

page 12 The Observer Thursday, March 22, 1990 
Cousy resigns as president of Basketball Hall of Fame 
,--­
JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: SUMMER RENTAL.Home near 
Help! My parents will kill me if I don't Holy Apostle, St. Jude. faith­
NOTICES NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE any campus. Security system.272-6306 "PREPARING FOR YOUR JOB 
get two extra tickets for graduation. I'm ful servant and friend of 
weekend-ext 1938 SEARCH". PRESENTATION BY PAUL 
willing to pay whatever I can for them. Jesus. the Church honors and 
REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND LARGE FOUR BEDROOM HOME 
NEED EXTRA MONEY? SPARE Call Michael at x3260. invokes you as the patron of
PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT TIME? National marketing firm offers hopeless cases, of things COMPLETELY FURNISHED. 
AT 7:00P.M. IN 127 NIEUWLAND part-time position posting promotional SENIORS almost dispaired of. Pray for AVAILABLE FOR JUNE OR AUGUST. 
Female graduate student wantPd to 234-9364. SCIENCE HALL. ALL ARE 
material on campus. Call Jen Schafer GRADTIXS me. I am so helpless and 
housesit and be a companion to a ENCOURAGED TO ATIEND. 
at B00-592-2121 I need extras! Will pay $BIG BUCKS $ alone. Make use of that particular 
lucid, healthy B6 year old woman while HOUSE FOR RENT Call Margo x4 189 Mass for seniors Chris Lamps and privilege given tofamily is away in mid-April. Per diem. WALKING DISTANCE FROM you to bring visible and 
WORDPROCESSING Carlos Petrozzi will be held in Dillon
Will not interfere with classes. No ND 232-3616
272-1B37 Chapel Thursday at 5 p.m. speedy help where help is 
housework. Own transportation 

( PERSONALS 
almost despaired of. Come to
needed or use bus. Please send HOUSE FOR 1990-91 SCHOOL
MAIL BOXES ETC. my assistance in this great 
name, telephone number, and some YEAR. FURNISHED, SECURE HOME, 
Shipping, Packaging, Copies. Parrot Heads Forever!!! need that I may receive the 
information about yourself to: 5 BDRM, WID, CLOSE TO ND. 
consolation and help of 
Resumes from $15.00. We. the people of Zahm's 4th 
Indiana TrustCompanion COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264-6010.
277-MAIL Dear Kirky, floor mezzanine, hereby seek heaven in my necessities,
P.O. Box 5149 Happy B-day on Saturday!!!!! The ball recognition as a belligerent tribulations, and sufferings,Mishawaka, IN 46545 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 

INSTATAX: Get Your Tax Refund in 3 is in your court. Unlil Salurday, You government de facto. This institution particularly-(make request) 
219-291-7153
Days to 2 Weeks! know who has been conceived in order to form a and that I MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 
more perfect floor and establish a may praise God with you and all the 
Kingless society. elect forever. I promise, 0 blessed St call Bryce x 1646 need ride to Columbus, Ohio on 3/23. 
Jude,to be ever mindful of this great 
FOR RENT 

STUDENTS... YA MESS WITH AG, YA MESS WITH favor, to always honor you as my 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM 
ME. I AINT FUN TO MESS WITH. I special and powerful patron. and toSUMMER JOBS TO SAVE JUST DO IT!!!!! HAVE CONNECTIONS, YA KNOW. gratefully encourage devotion to you.
ENVIRONMENT Earn $2,500-$3,500. 

APTS. A V ALIABLE
$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! 

GUIDO AND DA BOYS DON'T LIKE Amen.
National campaign positions to pass 

LESS THAN 1 MILE 
PANDORA'S BOOKS Take advantage of student discounts ANY MESS IN' WITH AG SO THERE Clean Air Act. stop toxic pollution, Corner of ND ave and Howard 

on IBM PS/2's. -Jeff ATIN: DIGGER
FROM NOTRE DAME 
tighten pesticide controls & promote
233-2342 

11 returning starters? A standout comprehensive recycling. Available in 
FEATURES INCLUDE: 
Visit the ND Computer Store for more freshman? 16-12?
1 B states & D.C. Call Kate at 1-B00-75­

details. First-round defeat!
Security systems, 
EARTH 

DINNER THEATRE 'NUFF SAID 
basements, rear yards, 
EAT REAL FOOD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY 

washer & dryer, new 
SPAGHETII WORKS AG is great. 
READING BOOKS! $32.000/year
LLOST/FOUND I 

I'M GOING HOME ON I-BO TO SF MARCH 26 'null said. 
construction. good
income potential. Details. (1) 602-B3B­AFTER SENIOR WEEK. RIDER ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB B8B5 Bk6262 

neighborhood,dishwasher
Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. 

WANTED FOR MOST/ALL THE WAY TIX AT LAFORTUNE DESK Dark blue. with red stripes. Any info 
CALL 232 • 8256 

CALL 1436 BILL $6 Top 10 quotes of exciting Tuesday EXCEPTIONAL SUMMER 
-
call Tom at 234-972B. REWARD chat with the "little one:" 
OPPORTUNITY--Be a counselor at SUMMER SUBLET CHEAP Tonight: The quint+ 1 announces the 10) "I'm definitely not wearing any
CAMP WAYNE. Northeastern Walk to campus, pool underwear"first annual hearts night. 
Pennsylvania, 2/12 hours from New etc., 2bdrms, call277-7496
LOST : Gold ring with Ruby. 9) "Heh heh heh...just kidding" 
York City. co-ed 6/23-B/21. Salary plus Quotes from Mustang Island, Texas: 
Great sentimental Value. B) "I taped over it with a Journey 
IS THERE ANY QUESTION THAT 
travel allowance and room and board. GRAD STUDENTS! • WHATASERVER!!!!!!! 
Please. return to Nick . x520B albumn"
BILL IS THE MOST HAPPENING or 277-7236. Reward. 7) "When I was a senior in high scho 
Option for pre-camp work starting CLEAN1-BDRM.APT.NEAR • I'd rather have a tan than a yeast
DUDE IN THE MED. PROGRAM? 
6/10. Warm, fun family atmos. CAMPUS. KIT. & UTIL. FURN. $330 infection. 
I was REALLY Catholic" 
Specialists needed in all sports, MO. 234-9B71. • Are you sure you don't have a
FOUND: piece of jewelry in 6) "I'm not the kind of girl guys 'dig'" 
Just ask SCRABBLE. The babes dig 
waterfront, camping, computers, arts. clogged toilet?? 
Holiday Inn on At. 31 during 5) "'On The Road Again' is by Willie 
him, the dudes want to be him and 
Sign-up CPO. Hesburgh Library. Write STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? • TONY BALONEY!! 
JPW. call John X15B3 to Nelson, you fool. Kerouac's is 'On T 
everybody's mother wants him to be
Box B23, Lynbrook, NY 11563 or call 2 bedroom furnished apt. • Kevin, nice hole in the wall! 
identify Road"'
their son!!!!!!! 
516-599-4562 for subleasing • These are the smells you can only 
4) "Wow, I'm a 'chick' Maybe
CALL NOW!I 2B4-4070 hear on spring break.?
Lost: Ladies Brown leather glove, someday, if I'm really lucky. I can 
Perhaps you've seen him with those lined. Between Morris Inn and Walsh. become a 'babe."'
SUMMER JOBS ·That girl needs a new voice!
girly-men in the weight room. OfALL LAND/WATER SPORTS • GRRRRRR!!!!
Call Jarnes Purcell collect 1-923-423B 3) "I like Paula Abdul bener than ... nc
course he puts them to shame--He's
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS • The cable will be on any minute 
let me think about that.· 
BILL!
FOR SALE

ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS now.
LOST: LONG BLUE WINTER COAT 2) "We'll save God for tomorrow nig
NEAR LAKE PLACID 

·lACK ATIACK!! CALL 1-B00-343-B373 ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT
WITH HOOD. CONTAINS KEYS & 1) "She probably sees me poking m
GET YOUR MEAT HOOKS INTO HIM SHADES IN POCKET. PLEASE CALL head in there and thinks lm a total
NOW GIRLS. ASK THE GOOD DR. TO KURT 3308. loser"INTERVIEWING IN LAFORTUNE SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, 
To Rick "Sweet Bun" C STUDENT CENTER Mercedes. Corvenes, Chevys. Surplus 
GIVE YOU A FREE EXAM. YOU What's up?! Why haven't you WON'T REGRET IT!!
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 9 AM-4 Buyers Guide. 
responded to our last note? 
SENIORS-DESPERATELY NEED 
PM. 1-602-B3B-B885 Ext.A6262 
We're crushed, you know! If you don't
LOST: KEYS ON A 19BB NATIONAL GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL
Mistress, CHAMPIONSHIP KEYCHAIN. IF PAY CASH. Michelle 2677 
respond soon, we'll be forced to hunt DORM REFRIDGERATOR 
Next time you kiss an older man, make FOUND, PLEASE CALL CATHY AT 
you down, tie you up, cover you with 
sure he is not married. 4841. THANKS. MIKE MURPHY, BILL FRANCO, 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: interested?? peanut buner, and then lick it off II!
Signed, Your concerned and shocked 
Outstanding brother (Winaukee)/sister 271-5651 Wouldn't that be nice, Rickster!?roomies and FRANK B. (your last name(Robindel) sports camps -22 mile lake 
Love, near "On Golden Pond" site seek staff. FOR SALE!!!! 
LOST: Gold "Monogram" Ring in the is too long),
All the females in the freshman 
basement bathroom in the library on We had an AWESOME time in
$5.00 HAIRCUTSI!!IIIII!!!!! 
Transp. paid. Interviews avail. on Emerson STEREO: dual cassene, 
class, and a couple of girls from St. Thurs., Mar. 22 at LaFortune (10am-turntable. AM/FM radio & speakers.
the Thursday of Break. If found, Florida! Thanks for making 
Joe's high school 2pm). Will sell CHEAP!!! Best offer. Call
please call Dave at 232-9365 or just break one of the best weeks 
Vito's Barbershopgive it to library security. we have ever had. even though
Shannon at 2469. 1523 Lincolnway West we did get a ticket. The quotes will b CAMPUS PAINTERS NOW HIRING 
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. in soon!! You 
NOVICE AND EXPERIENCED HARTER HEIGHTS HOME -NEAR ND 
ON NORTH QUAD BY NDH. guys are great!!
South Bend PAINTERS FOR SPRING AND GOLF COURSE -FOR SALE 
ONLY NERDS WEAR YELLOW SUMMER HOUSEPAINTING IN LOVELY. 3 BDR+. SUN ROOM, 
REWARD. SEAN 2073 Love, 
BASEBALL CAPS--USUALLY Colleen and Melissa 
233-4767 Lost: small green stenographer's P.S.--1 was never LOST... 
CHICAGO NORTH SUBURBS. CALL FAMILY ROOM, MANY E'XTRAS PAT 
TO COVER UP THE HAIR THEY TO ARRANGE AN INTERVIEW 239 50BO, 2B7 9341 
HAVEN'T WASHED IN WEEKS.
notebook RAMADA INN of Elkhart has rooms for70B/475-3439. MAILING ADDRESS IS: was left in South Dining Hall Graduation weekend. Located at Toll 2901 CENTRAL STREET ­

ONLY BIGGER NERDS HAVE EVANSTON, IL 60201. Yamaha home stereo system for sale. 
has Italian notes in it. Metro is in heat.

Road Exit #92, Elkhart (12 miles from call x4t74. 
NEVER SEEN "THE WIZARD OF CD player. receiver and Polk Audio 
South Bend). Minimum stay 2 nights 
OZ!" GEEEEEZ! GET A LIFE I Ball State student needs apt. for speakers. $525, must sell. Call 291­
with $100 deposit per room. Send HEY JULIE BRUCE!!!! Happy MISSING 
lener with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Birthday...a few days late! Hope it wa 
summer. 317-747-9755 David. 291B after 5.
Missing from North Dining Hall: grey _____..______________________________ _ Aide the WINDY CITY SHUTILE
Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514. a wild time for your last one as an 
---~--------------------------------­
this Saturday to Chicago!
Jansport backpack 

under-grad!! Next stop-Mad. Schoo Please return. No questions asked. 
Tickets at Information Desk
SUWIIIER J08S 

CARING, CHILDLESS COUPLE love Aim JACQUIE CALHOUN pou..se_ORs-Boys~. w. Mass. 
TICKETS 

in LaFortune.
DESPERATELY WISHES TO SHARE x4959 
I Gi1a Can1l. Maine 

OUR LIFE, HOME AND MUCH LOVE 
Top 5U). RmiBdll.aundry. Travet 

WITH YOUR WHITE NEWBORN. LET Alowance 
Do you have what it takes to QUOTES FROM DESTIN 
Hey Seniors, US HELP EACH OTHER REALIZE 
be a manager? Well, apply a.tJI!IcMI kids and have skil in one of
WANTED 

Tell your parents to order all four OUR DREAMS. EXPENSES PAID. 
for building manager • A most triumphant break! GRADUATION TICKETS. Because I PLEASE CALL KATHY AND LARRY 
lhe lolowing activities: 
An:hery, Arts & Crafts, ~. 

positions for LaFortune and • Only Kat would put CAMP STAFF: 2t+, Coed, sleepaway 
need 4 extra tickets and will pay CASH COLLECT AT (201) 635-1307. 
Baal<etbal, Bic:yding. C'-~Mdiiog, 

Stepan. Job applications at accelerator on her chest camp. Massachusens. Some key for any seat anywhere. So after break 
Dance, o..ma, Drums, Fencing, Golf, 

Information Desk in LaFortune. • Dent trip over Erin and Jeff call me at 256-9374 and get your mula. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: " • Did you know him Paula? 
positions avail. Also: WSI, lifeguard, Deadline is March 23.

arts & crafts. all land and water sports. ~-Gymnatics. Hockey, Hor'lebKI<. 

PREPARING FOR YOUR JOB 
Klnle, LM:rosse. Nature, ....... 

• Dude -you'll never guessfitness. gymnastics, piano/play for SEARCH". PRESENTATION BY PAUL 
~.Piano, Rallo, Rodcalry, 
what happened! 
shows, drama, judo. dance, tennis, REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 

~ Sailboardng, Sailing, Sa.o,. 

BEAUX ARTS • Marie you're nippin archery. photography, computers, PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT
Soccer, Tennis, Track,-WSI, W-.ki, 

• You're face looks like a
UNDERGROUND Weighla, Wood. Men c.rl lllf wrile:model rocketry, guitar. radio, video. 
AT 7:00P.M. IN swirled lollipopyearbook, newspaper, wilderness, 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. 
C.., Wlnecil, 5 Glen LMWI, 

UNDERGROUND • Jan's glowing woodwork. AN typist. 6/tB-8/20. CAMP ALL ARE ENCOURAGED TO
:&nwonec:k, N.Y. 10543 (914) 

' Gary says they're all the EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd. Eastchester. 
381·5&&:;. Women c.rl Clf write: Can1l 

I Need Graduation Tickets. ATIEND. 
PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES same size when they'reNY 10707. 800/955-CAMP. 
Vega, P.O. Box 1n1. Duxbury, MA 

Willing to pay$$. 
THURSDAY AT CLUB 23 erect 
1123321617) 934-6536. 

Call Craig at x3100. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: 
• Katherine skinny dipped? 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 


"PREPARING FOR YOUR JOB 
PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES And smoked? Graduating Students from the Bay SEARCH". PRESENTATION BY PAUL • I gave my shirt to one ofmo.Summer,Yr. round.AII Countries,AII THURSDAY AT CLUB 23 fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­
Area: Plane ticket, REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 
the wet onesIN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 

May15, one way, SFO to S. PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT 
• 11 people in 6 beds? Hi! Bend. best ofr. 277-5745, lv. AT 7:00P.M. IN 127 NIEUWLAND 
RIGHT TO LIFE mtg 3/22 re • Two party balls! Well, one
ATIENTION-HIRINGI Government 

KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE msg. SCIENCE HALL. 
interest in officer positions for Kat and one for the restjobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Calf 
Summer Rental ALL ARE ENCOURAGED TO 
7pm, ND rm, LaF of us.
1-602-B38-8885. Ext. R.6262 

4/5 bdrm, 2bth, furnished ATIEND. 
Refreshments. 
913 Leland
RIDE NEEDED to Ball State or U of Dayton this wknd or any other $$$ 

x4420 I NEED GRAD TKTS SMOKE THE QUEEN OUTIIIII SMOKE $$DAVE P. 3270 THE QUEEN OUTIIIIII!! 
John x1502 

SPRINGFIELD. Mass. (AP) -I Ionors Committee for a second Dave Bing were elected on the Cousy, who had been the first new vote when none of the 16 Bob Cousy quit as president of time," O'Brien said at a news second ballot. They are to be Hall of Farner to serve as pres­nominees got the 18 votes the Basketball Hall of Fame be­conference. inducted on May 15, along with ident, could not be reached for needed from the 24-member cause he was upset over the Cousy's resignation was an­the late Neil Johnston, who was comment at either his Honors Committee. handling of this year's election nounced last month, but at the elected by the Veterans Worcester or Florida homes. O'Brien, a close friend and of inductees, executive director time O'Brien denied the action Committee. The Worcester Telegram & neighbor of Cousy in Joe O'Brien said Wednesday. stemmed from any internal dis­"I don't think any student of Gazette reported the former Worcester, said he was aware 
"He was concerned that we putes. basketball history could ques­Boston Celtic star resigned last of Cousy's concerns about the may have diluted the process by All-star forward Elvin Hayes tion their election," O'Brien month because the Hall's vote, but Cousy had asked him sending the names to the and guards Earl Monroe and said. Executive Committee ordered a not to say anything. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 

-------------~-~------­
Thursday, March 22, 1990 Scoreboard page 13 
NHL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS MCC AWARDS NIT ROUNDUP 
WALES CONFERENCE Att-MCC Honorees First Round
BASEBALL Patrick Division w L T Pts GF GA Wednesday, March 14
National League
34 28 13 81 258 249 ARSTTEAMx-NY Rangers Penn State 57, Marquette 54 
New Jersey 32 33 8 72 265 268 PITTSBURGH PIRATEs--Named Kent Teku\ve 71 270 261 New Orleans 78, James Madison 74
Washington 33 36 5 minor league pitching instructor. Player, Institution Yr. Pos. II. Pittsburgh 32 36 6 70 301 336 Heidi Ach. Marquette Jr. F-C 6-0 Tennessee 73, Memphis St. 71
271 Pacific Coast League
NY Islanders 29 36 10 68 261 Cheryl Day, Detroit Sr. c 6-1 
29 36 9 67 273 271 Thursday, March 15
Philadelphia PORTLAND BEAVERS-Named Jim 
·Sheryl Porter. Loyola Jr. G 5-8
Adams Division Fordham 106. Southern U. 80 
7 93 265 215 Shellenback manager. Karen Robinson, Notre Dame Jr. G 5-6
x-Boston 43 24 x-Buffalo 41 26 8 90 265 233 BASKETBALL Julie VonDielingen, Butler Fr. F 6-1 Maryland 91, Massachusetts 81 
x-Montreal 39 27 9 87 272 220 Mississippi St. 84, Baylor 75
National Basketball Association 
x-Hartford 35 32 7 77 255 253 SECOND TEAM Wis.-Green Bay 73, S. Illinois 60 
Quebec 12 55 7 31 224 376 PHOENIX SUN5-Piaced Dan Majerle, guard­Vanderbilt 98, Louisiana Tech 90, OT
forward on the injured list. Signed Tim Legler. Kim Blanton. Xavier Jr. G 5-5 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Oklahoma St. 83, Tulsa 74
Jr. 5-9

guard, to a 10-day contract. Krissi Davis, Notre Dame F 
T GF Amy Humphries, Evansville Jr. G 5-5 Hawaii 69, Stanford 57 x-St. Louis 36 30 9 81 278 249 Anette Melvin. Dayton Sr. F 5-10 
Norris Division W L Pts GA FOOTBALL Friday, March 16National Football League
x-Chicago 37 31 6 80 292 275 Diane Starry. Evansville Jr. F 6-0 Rutgers 87. Holy Cross 78
Toronto 36 35 4 76 318 336 CLEVELAND BROWNS-Announced the Minnesota 32 38 4 68 258 269 Cincinnati 75, Bowling Green 60
ALL-NEWCOMER Detroit 27 34 13 67 271 retirement of Cody Risien. tackle.
298 

St. Louis 85, Kent State 74
SAN FRANCISCO 49ER-Signed Sanjay x-Calgary 39 22 14 92 326 250 DePaul 89, Creighton 72 Smythe Division Julie VonDielingen. Butler Fr. F 6-1 
Beach and Brian Slater. wide receivers; Rodney 
x-Edmonton 35 13 292 263 Coquese Washington, ND Fr. G 5-6
27 83 New Mexico 89, Oregon 78

286 275 Dillard, linebacker; David Edeen. defensive end; Mary Majewski, Butler Fr. G 5-5
x-Winnipeg 36 30 9 81 Long Beach St. 86, Arizona St. 71x-Los Angeles 32 36 6 70 315 314 Matthew Fitts. Chuck Pellegrini. Jim Thompson. Christy Greis. Evansville Fr. C 6-4 Vancouver 23 40 13 59 231 294 Patrice Martin. Detroit Fr. F 5-9
and Brett Wiese. offensive linemen; Greg Horne.
x-clinched playoff berth Second Round
punter\ Garry James and Tyreese Knox. running 
PLAYER OF TliE YEAR 

Tuesday's Games Thursday's Games Monday, March 19
backs; and Craig Swoope, safety. Karen Robinson. Notre DameWashington 3. New York Islanders 0 Quebec at Boston. 7:35 p.m. 
Vanderbilt 89, Tennessee 85 
Vancouver 4. Detroit 4, tie Pittsburgh at Philadelphia. 7:35 p.m. HOCKEY Philadelphia 3, New Jersey 2 Minnesota at Detroit. 7:35p.m. National Hockey League COACH OF THE YEAR Rutgers 81, Fordham 74 Minnesota 5. Los Angeles 2 New Jersey at Chicago. 8:35p.m. Paulette Stein. Butler 
Penn State 80, Maryland 78
ST. LOUIS BLUE5-Signed Nelson Emerson.
New York Islanders at Los Angeles. 

New Orleans 65, Mississippi St. 60
Wednesday's Games 10:35 p.m. center, to a mulit-year contract. NEWCOMER OF THE YEAR Late Game Not Included Tuesday, Marc!> 20
Julie VonDielingen, Butler Hartford 4, Quebec 1 Friday's Games DePaul 61, Cincinnati 59
Buffalo 5. Calgary 4 Montreal at Washington. 8:05p.m. Toronto 5, New York Rangers 5. tie Vancouver at Winnipeg. 8:30p.m. St. Louis 58, Wis.-Green Bay 54 Winmpeg 3, Montreal 2 
NBA BOX SCORES 
New Mexico 90, Oklahoma St. 88
St. Louis at Edmonton. (n) All Times EST MILWAUKEE (96) CLEVELAND (114) Hawaii 94. Long Beach St. 79 
Grayer 3-9 2-6 B. Roberts 1-7 0-0 2. Lohaus 5-16 Bennett 2-5 0-0 4, Nance 4-10 3-4 11, Daugherty
NBA STANDINGS 
0-0 11. Humphries 6-12 0-0 14. Robertson 12-17 7-16 3-417, Eh\o 11-18 3-3 27. Price 8-12 5-5 24, Quarterfinals 
7-7 31. Pierce 3-13 2-2 B. Pressey 4-7 1-2 9, Williams 6-18 4-4 16, Kerr 3-6 3-3 9. Rollins 3-6 0-Wednesday, March 21
EASTERN CONFERENCE Brown 1-2 3-4 5, Harford 0-1 0-0 0. Krystkowiak 3-0 6. Totals 44-91 21-23 114. Penn State 58, Rutgers 55 Atlantic Division w L Pet GB Streak 
10 1-2 7. Kornet 0-2 1-2 1. Totals 38-96 17-25 96. BOSTON (123) Vanderbilt 88, New Orleans 65 
Philadelphia 42 26 .618 Won2 Boston 39 26 .600 11/2 Won3 INDIANA (112) McHale 12-23 0-0 24, Bird 11-16 2-2 25, Parish Thursday, March 22 
New York 39 26 .600 11/2 Lost4 
Person 12-17 2-2 27, Schremp! 11-17 4-6 26, 9-15 0-2 18, Johnson 5-6 2-2 12. Lewis 13-25 0-0 DePaul (20-14) at St. Louis (19-11). 8:30p.m.Washington 25 42 .373 161/2 Won 1 
Smits 12-14 1-2 25, Fleming 6-15 0-0 12. Miller 5-7 26, Kleine 1-2 0-0 2. Pinckney 0-0 0-0 0. Bagley 0-Friday, March 23
New Jersey 15 51 .227 26 Lost 8 15 53 .221 27 Lost 5
M1ami 3-5 14. Sanders 0-6 2-2 2. Wittman 1-2 0-0 2, 1 0-0 o. Gamble 4-8 5-5 13. M.Smith 0-1 2-2 2. Hawaii (25-9) at New Mexico (19-12), 9:35p.m. Central Division 
Green 0-0 0-0 0, Thompson 1-4 2-2 4.Totals 48-82 C.Smith 0-0 1-2 1.Totals 55-97 12-15 123.
x-Oetroit 51 15 .773 Won 12 
NCAA AWARDS 
Chicago 43 22 .662 71/2 Won3 14-19112 3-Point goals--Cleveland 5-1 0 (Price 3-5, Ehlo Milwaukee 35 31 .530 16 Lost 2 
3-Point goals-Milwaukee 3-13 (Humphries 2-3. 2-4. Kerr 0-1), Boston 1-6 (Bird 1-3, McHale 0-3). NEW YORK -The 14 finalists on the 1990 ndiana 33 34 .493 18 1/2 Won2 
Atlanta 20
31 35 .470 Lost2 Lohaus 1-5. Brown 0-1, Krystkowiak 0-1, Pierce 0-Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Cleveland 39 ballot for the John R. Wooden College Basketball Cleveland 30 35 .462 20 1/2 Lost 1 
3). Indiana 2-7 (Miller 1-2. Person 1-3. Smits 0-1, (Williams 14), Boston 55 (Parish 16). Assists­Player of the Year award. Orlando 17 49 .258 34 Won 1 
Fleming 0-1). Fouled out-None. Rebounds­Cleveland 25 (Price 7), Boston 40 (Bird 16). Total 
Kenny Anderson. freshman guard, Georgia WESTERN CONFERENCE Milwaukee 51 (Grayer 10). Indiana 54 (Schremp! fouls-Cleveland 17, Boston 16. Technicals­
Tech 12). Assists--Milwaukee 15 (Robertson 5), Indiana Johnson, Boston illegal defense. A-14,890. 
Stacey Augmon. junior forward. UNLV
Midwest Division W L Pet GB Streak 
19 Won 1 23, San Antonio 44 21 .677 21/2 Won3 
Utah 47 .712 29 (Fleming 11 ). Total fouls-Milwaukee Derrick Coleman, senior forward, Syracuse 
Indiana 19. Technical-Milwaukee illegal defense. 
Hank Gathers. senior forward. Loyola
Dallas 35 29 .547 11 Won 1 11 A-9.350.
Denver 36 30 .545 Won2 Marymount Houston 31 35 .470 16 Lost3 
MIAMI (97) Kendall Gill, senior guard, Illinois
Minnesota 17 48 .262 29 1/2 Lost3 CHICAGO (99) 
Frank 5-15 6-8 16, Rice 3-13 0-0 7. Davis 4-7 0-0 Grant 6-91-2 13, Pippen 4-10 3-411, Cartwright
Charlotte 11 53 .172 35 Lost 1 Chris Jackson. sophomore guard. LSU 
B. Douglas 5-12 1-2 11. Edwards 4-10 0-0 8,Pacific Division Larry Johnson, junior forward. UNLV
4-9 2-2 10, Jordan 10-20 7-9 27, Paxson 6-9 3-3
x-L.A. Lakers 49 16 .754 Wont Sparrow 0-2 1-1 1, Long 2-8 3-4 7, Rowinski 2-6 2­Bo Kimble. senior guard. Loyola Marymount
x-Portland 48 18 .727 11/2 Won 10 15, Perdue 1-3 1-2 3, Armstrong 5-9 0-0 11, King 
2 6, Haffner 4-9 0-0 8. Thompson 7-9 2-2 16.Phoenix 44 .688 Lost 1 Alonzo Mourning, sophomore forward.
20 41/2 

2-6 3-4 7. Sanders 0-1 0-0 0, Nealy 0-0 2-2 2.
Seattle 33 32 .508 16 Lost 1 Sundvold 4-6 0-0 9. Totals 40-97 15-19 97. Golden State 30 35 .462 19 Wont Totals 38-76 22-28 99. 
Georgetown
PHILADELPHIA (118) ATLANTA (89)
L.A. Clippers 26 40 .394 23 1/2 Lost2 Gary Payton. senior guard, Oregon Sacramento 20 45 .308 29 Lost1 
Barkley 5-9 9-13 19. Mahorn 6-11 1-3 13, Rumeal Robinson. senior guard. Michigan
Wilkins 11-24 11-18 36, Willis 6-16 0-0 12,
x-c\inched playoff berth Gminski 4-7 4-4 12, Dawkins 5-10 2-2 13, Hawkins Dennis Scott. junior forward. Georgia Tech
Malone 2-4 4-6 8, Rivers 2-5 0-0 6, Smith 1-9 4-4 
8-15 7-7 25, Anderson 6-8 3-3 15. Brooks 2-3 0-0Tuesday's Games 
Wednesday's Games Lionel\ Simmons. senior forward. La Salle
6, Koncak 1-2 2-4 4, Levingston 1-5 0-0 2, Webb 1­
Orlando 121. New York 118 5. Thornton 2-3 1-3 5, Payne 3-7 1-1 7. Copeland
Late Games Not Included Steve Smith. junior guard. Michigan St.

ndiana 112. Miam1 98 Philadelphia 11 B. Miami 97 4 2-2 4. Battle 1-3 0-0 2. Volkov 0-0 0-0 0. Long 4-5 1-4 0-0 2. Nimphius 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 43-78 28-36Chicago 122. Washmgton 97 Washington 136, New Jersey 106 
0-0 8, Ferrell 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 30-77 23-34 89.
Detroit 117. Milwaukee 96 118.
Chicago 99, Atlanta 89 

SPORTS CALENDAR 
Portland 120. Houston 110 3-Point goats--chicago 1-4 (Armstrong 1-1.
Indiana 112. Milwaukee 96 3-Point goals--Miami 2-3 (Rice 1-1, Sundvo\d 1­Denver 119, Los Angeles Clippers 112 
Boston 123. Cleveland 114 

Paxson 0-1. Jordan 0-2). Atlanta 6-11 (Wilkins 3-6. 
1, Douglas 0-1), Philadelphia 4-9 (Hawkins 2-4.
San Antonio 128. Seattle 106 Los Angeles Clippers at Utah. (n) Thursday, March 22 Los Angeles Lakers 109, Charlotte 97 
Rivers 2-2, Smith 1-2, Willis 0-1). Fouled out­
Charlotte at Phoenix. (n) Brooks 1-1 . Dawkins 1-3. Barkley 0-1 )-Fouled Golden State 105. Minnesota 101 Minnesota at Sacramento, (n) None. Rebounds--Chicago 51 (Pippen 9). Atlanta Wrestling at NCAA Championships at
out-None. Rebounds-Miami 56 (Thompson 10), 
University of Maryland
Thursday's Games 51 (Wilkins 11). Assists--Chicago 24 (Pippen 10), Philadelphia 48 (Gminski 11 )-Assists-Miami 26Dallas at Orlando. 7:30p.m. 
Atlanta 18 (Malone 5). Total fouls-Chicago 24, Women's tennis vs. WESTERN MICHIGAN.
Detroit at Houston, 8:30p.m. (Douglas 10), Philadelphia 31 (Dawkins 9). Total 3:30p.m.
Portland at San Antonio, 8:30p.m Atlanta 22. Technical--Atlanta illegal defense. A-fouls-Miami 24, Philadelphia 19. Technica\s­Denver at Seattle. 10 p.m. 
16,371. 
Softball at Valparaiso, 3:30p.m.
Barkley, Frank. A-12,644. 
TOWNHOUSES 

:• IL~cdly JLrii§Ihl Iffi~§lk~fr~cill •:
FOR RENT 
2,3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 

• Ifficrumrrmm~fr •
. . 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 

• ~ •
: Sunday March 25th :
FEATURES INCLUDE: 

e 2:00 pm Monogram Room e
Security Systems Basements 

e JACC e 
Rear Yards 
• 
Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 

e Tickets may be purchased at the Women's e :Basketball Office in the JACC through noon •
call 

e on Friday. :
232-8256 

: $14.25 per person •
. : 


The Observer Thursday, March 22, 1990
page 14 

Carolina most recently last players named to the annual did not miss a shot from the month and felt very comfort-McDonald's All American game field, scored 19 points and able and at home with the pro-that will be played in grabbed 18 rebounds as the gram. He said he hoped Indiana Indianapolis on April 15. Wildcats crushed Kokomo 7 4­fans would not be disappointed Montross said at that time 57 and finished the season at by the choice. his college decision would be in-25-4. 
is currently looking for interested people to fill " I hope they react positively. fluenced by "a mixture of Lawrence North coach Jack 
the following position: 
I'm excited by the decision. It's things ... All three schools have Keefer said the only help he 
selfish on my part, but if they very reputable academic and gave Montross was to list 
don't like it, I'm sorry. That's .,.••••••••••••••••••••••••

where I'm going to be for the 

next four years." 1---------------------. 
News Writer 
lie also said his decision was not influenced by the possibility 
of becoming Indiana Mr. 

Th c II 
If you are interested in writing for the News 
Basketball. 

e e a r 
"Whatever happens is fine 

Department please attend a meeting on Tues., 
with me. I came along at the 1------------...:.._..::....._::._=.::...=:...J same time as a legend in 
March 27, in the Foster room in LaFortune at 8 Indiana basketball, Damon 
p.m. If you are unable to attend, please call 
Bailey, and this has nothing to 
do with my decision." 

Kelley or Janice at 239-5303. 
A year ago, Montross was is accepting applications for 
named Most Valuable Player of the Indiana high school tour­Manager and 
nament by The Associated Press after leading Lawrence Assistant Managers 
North to its first state title. The 
~~ 
Wildcats were ranked 11th this 

season and finished 22-6 with a Pick up applications in the Student Govt regional tourney loss to Office (2nd floor LaFortune) and return 
IRISH
Southport, which is in the state 

them by 5:00pm on March 26, 1990.
tourney semifinals against Bedford North Lawrence on Saturday. 

Questions?
Last summer, Montross played on the same national 

is now accepting applications
Call Steve at 289-9710
champion AAU team as or 
for Manager and
Bedford's Bailey, who already Molly at 239·8040 has signed with Indiana, and all 
Assistant Managers.
the current IU freshmen, in­cluding his former Lawrence North teammate Todd Leary. 

ADWORKS 
Pick up applications in the Student Govt
Montross said he talked to Leary Wednesdav afternoon, ..•••••••••••••••••••••••.. Office (2nd floor Lafortune) and return them by Noon on March 22, 1990
Get Dogged Over Break? 
Questions?
Get back in step with the 

Call Liz at 283 • 3881 or 
a cappella sounds of ~ncy 
Molly at 239·8040 
9:30 p.m. Thursday at ~S 
APWORKS 

NIGHTCLU 

before he mane we announce­
Montross 
ment. 

"It was tough," he said. "I continued from page 20 haven't talked to Damon yet. Carolina coach Dean Smith I'm going to miss playing with later Tuesday night and said both of them, but all the cir­Smith "was really excited. No cumstances led to North one's more excited than I am, Carolina." though." Last month, Bailey and 
He said he visited North Montross were the only Indiana athletic programs. They have good coaching staffs, beyond the head coach." 
Montross averaged 21.4 points and 15 rebounds a game as a junior, and Lawrence North raced through the tour­nament by a winning margin of almost 16 points a game. In the championship game, Montross about 10 schools "that favored a big man. I outlined what I thought he should look at." 
Keefer said he did not rec­ommend any particular school on the list. 
"I wouldn't do that. That's up to him and his family." Keefer said he thought 
Montross would adjust to col­lege basketball well, although the biggest difficulty he will have will be on defense. 
"We've used him as an offen­sive player and protected him on defense. But you're talking about the premier center in Indiana in my lifetime," Keefer said. 
Michigan St. object of latest probe 
DETROIT (AP) -Michigan State University officials have maintained that despite allegations of steroid use, the football team repeatedly has come up clean in National Collegiate Athletic Association tests. 
The Detroit News, in a copyright story Wednesday, re­ported that several Spartan football players used the mus­cle-enhancing drug prior to the 1987 Rose Bowl, and many con­tinue to use steroids. 
Coach George Perles was asked by the newspaper after a March 12 news conference if he knew of widespread use of steroids. "No. No," Perles said. ''I'm honest, I answer them all honestly. N-o; no, underlined, period. Truth." 
The newspaper, which conducted a two-month study with more than 100 players, parents, police officers and physicians, said up to seven Spartans may have fooled NCAA testers on the eve of the Rose Bowl game by using someone else's urine, carried in a plastic bag taped inside their armpits and attached to a tube that came out between their legs, the newspaper said. 
The NCAA has banned steroids, hormones that can in­crease body and muscle mass artificially. 

Frank Uryasz, NCAA director of testing, said it was unlikely the players could have pulled off such a urine test scam, adding this type of accusation is "one word against another." 
Uryasz was out of the office and unavailable for comment Wednesday, his secretary in Mission, Kan., said. 
Some players said offensive tackle Tony Mandarich frequently supplied steroids and helped some players who were afraid of needles, the newspaper said. Some referred to him as the "doctor" or the "mentor." 
'I wanted to get bigger so I could compete," said defensive tackle Jeff Case, a 1987 freshman walk-on who left the team but remains at the univer­sity. "One day, a guy in the shower with me said I'd have to bulk up if I expected to play. I went right to Tony, because it was well-known he was the guy to see." 
Case said Mandarich injected him with testosterone seven or eight times. 
Mandarich, now with the Green Bay Packers of the NFL, was hunting in Nevada and could not be rMt.ched for comment Wednesday, said his agent, Vern Sharbaugh of Cleveland. Mandarich has de­nied using steroids in the past. 
"As far as I know, they're just accusations," Sharbaugh said Wednesday. "He tested three times in the last year and a half, and it was negative every time. He's never tested positive ever. 
Lance Hostetler, a former Spartans offensive lineman who transferred to Kent State University, said he bought steroids and syringes from a teammate in the Spartans' locker room. He said his father found the drugs and persuaded him against using them. 
The newspaper reported that steroid use apparently continued after the Rose Bowl, which Michigan State won 20­17 over Southern California. Last season, two Spartans reserves tested positive for steroids and sat out the Aloha Bowl on Christmas Day in Honolulu, other players said. University officials neither would confirm nor deny the re­port. 
The NCAA banned steroids in the early 1970s and in 1986 started testing before all championship ~ames. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Interested Sports Writers for the remainder of this year and next fall should attend the new sports writers' meeting next Wednesday, March 28 at 7 p.m. at the Observer. 
Cheerleader and Leprechaun Tryouts will be held this Friday and Saturday beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the JACC Pit. All are welcome to attend. 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club will have its first home match of the 1990 season this Saturday vs. Dayton. The first game will start at 1 p.m. on Stepan Field. 
Interested Sportscasters who want to join the WVFI (640 a.m.) sports staff should attend an informational meeting next Tuesday, Mach 27 at 9 p.m. in the WVFI station on the second floor of LaFortune. Questions? Call Vic at 283-2924. 
The Bookstore Basketball captain's meeting will be on March 26 at Cushing Auditorium from 7-9 p.m. 
The scorekeeper's meeting for Bookstore Basketball will be held in the Montgomery Theatre (LaFortune) at 7:30 on March 28. 
Anyone interested in signing up a mud volleyball team 
for Antostal, call Nacibe or Caryn at 1093. Cost is $7 per team. 
The Notre Dame men's volley ball team will host 10th ranked Ball State tonight at the JACC Pit. at 7:30.p.m. Admission is free. 

page 15

Thursday, March 22, 1990 The Observer 
Rose complies with investigation 

CINCINNATI (AP) -Former Cincinnati Reds manager Pete Rose is cooperating with a fed­eral investigation into his in­come taxes in hopes of avoiding a prison term, a newspaper re­ported Wednesday. 
The Cincinnati Post reported that prosecutors are consider­ing filing charges of failing to report income rather than in­come tax evasion in exchange for Rose's cooperation. 
A grand jury has been looking into Rose's taxes for the past year, examining evidence that he may have failed to report in­come from racetrack winnings and baseball memorabilia shows. 
Conviction on the evasion charge carries a maximum five­year sentence with a $250,000 fine while failure to report in­come is punishable by a maxi­mum of three years and a $250,000 fine. Both charges also call for back taxes, penal­ties and interest. 
Some players still unhappy as teams begin spring camp 
Sluggers Gwynn, Bonilla feel unappreciated, shortchanged by offseason contract proposals 
Now that the end of the spring training lockout assures them of paydays on the first and 15th of every month, National League All-Stars Tony Gwynn and Bobby Bonilla are unhappy with the numbers on those checks. 
Both expressed their displeasure Wednesday, Gwynn locked in a deal that makes him only the seventh highest paid player on the San Diego Padres and Bonilla beaten at arbitra­tion by the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Gwynn, a four-time NL batting champion, is making $1 million this season and will make $4 million for 1991 and 1992 under terms of an exten­sion signed in 1988. Bonilla wanted $1.7 million from the Pirates but will make an arbi­trated $1.25 instead. 
Both contracts pay well above the minimum wage but, Gwynn and Bonilla believe, well below the market value for players with their credentials. Gwynn points to the four-year, $15 million deal that San Francisco's Will Clark signed, a sore point since Clark was the man he beat out for his third straight batting title. 
Gwynn sought renegotiation but was rejected by management. Ex-agent Jerry Kapstein, now chief executive of the club, told him: "A con­tract is a contract. You seemed happy when you signed it." 
He's not now, though, and talks of free agency. 

Grand jury investigations are supposed to be secret. and Rose spokeswoman Barbara Pinzka blamed the report on a leak. 
"My indications are that it's from the prosecutor's side, but I don't have anything to sup­port that," Pinzka said. "We're very concerned that there's been a leak, because leaks are incomplete. We've been abiding by a no-comment position." 
Rose's lawyers provided fed­eral authorities with Rose's fi­nancial records from 1985 to 1988. 
"We did provide all financial records that they requested," Pinzka said. ''I'm not going to get into the specifics of it. We will state for the record that we gave them everything they asked for." 
Rose is staying with his fam­ily at a Plant City, Fla., home he purchased near the Reds' spring training base while he was the team's manager. He could not be reached for com­ment on Wednesday. 
Robert A. Pitcairn Jr., one of Rose's lawyers, declined to say what Rose's attorneys have given the government. 
"From the beginning of this, we've said we won't have any comment on anything the grand jury is doing," Pitcairn said. "Until the grand jury proceed­ing is over, it would be totally inappropriate to comment." 
The 48-year-old Rose, base­ball's all-time hits leader, was banned from baseball last Aug. 24 by Commissioner A. Bartlett Giamatti after Rose admitted placing illegal bets with book­makers. Rose denied betting on baseball and the Reds, but Giamatti said he did not believe the denials. 
Thomas P. Gioiosa, a former housemate of Rose who is serv­ing a five-year federal prison term for income tax evasion, transporting cocaine and ille­gally claiming Rose's racetrack 
winnings  as  income, has  ac­ 
cused Rose  of betting  on  the  
Reds.  

"When you do a good job, I guess I thought I would be treated a little differently," Gwynn said. "But I guess busi­ness is business. When you can get a better deal somewhere else, you go somewhere else. That's how the system works ... and when my turn comes, that's what I'm going to do." 
Bonilla feels the same way. The Pirates refused to negotiate with him, gambling that an arbitrator would put more emphasis on his 67 errors over the last two seasons instead of his 48 home runs and 186 RBis. 
"The Pirates could have negotiated but they didn't want to," said Bonilla, who's being switched this spring from third base to the outfield. "They did 
what they felt they had to do. They rolled the dice." And they won, for the moment, at least. 
Bonilla knows that he can be a free agent after 1991. Will he leave then? 
"They were the ones that rolled their dice," Bonilla said, "and they're still rolling across the table. They're rolling and they're rolling ... and we'll see what numbers come up." 
For pitchers, the operative number this spring is three. That's the number of innings the rules committee decided they have to pitch in the season's first three post-lock­out weeks to qualify for a win. Cincinnati's Rick Mahler thinks that's silly. 
COMPLETE GLASSES FOR AS LOW AS $3896 25% OFF PRESCRIPTION LENSES WITH FRAME PURCHASE 
South Bend Only 
1111 E. Ireland Road 291-4CXXl 


All lnsuance pl<r~s welcome 
GM Preferred VISion Provide,.. program Metropolitan 
Ford • Chrysler • Womer Gear • Medicaid 
Prices for frane only. MO"tY frames availat:>le 1n each category. Other franes avcilat:>le at various prices. AJI sdes ftnal. No reftrlds or exchcr1ges. We reserve the right to limit qucr,itites. No wholesale dealeB please. No o1her dscoU1ts. previous orders. or sale rtems apply. 

FRAMES SHOWN WERE NOW 
~ $998 ~s$2998 ~o$6998 
Eye examinations are available by licensed optometrists. Or if you prefer, we can produce lenses from your own doctor's prescription or duplicate your present lenses from your current glasses. 
Limited Time Offer 
"People are going to be surprised at how ready we are -especially the people who put in that three inning rule," Mahler said. "They're going to be surprised that guys will be pitching more than that. "Reds Manager Lou Piniella thinks the three-inning rule makes sense, though. "You want to have a healthy pitching staff in the summer," he said. "We're not going to win the pennant in April. I don't want anybody rushing themselves and hurting themselves." 
It took Atlanta manager Russ Nixon just one workout to name Tom Glavine his opening day pitcher. "I must have had a good first day," the 23-year-old cracked. 
Boston Manager Joe Morgan was less than pleased when pitching prospects Steve Ellsworth and Rob Woodward were the only players missing from the second Red Sox work­out. "Everybody's here except Ellsworth and Woodward," he cracked, "and all I know is that they've had six months to get here." 
Ellsworth phoned to say he'd be in Thursday. There was no word from Woodward, though. 
Toronto shortstop Tony Fernandez had plenty of words, however, for Manager Cito Gaston's plan to make him the 
leadoff batter for the Blue Jays. And they weren't positive. 
"When I was healthy, I liked it, but I don't enjoy it anymore," said Fernandez, who has had knee:·elbow, cheekbone and shoulder surgery in the last two, years. "I can't do the things I used to do. It's time for me to move on and change my game plan. I don't want to be running so much as I used to. 
"You get to the point where 
you don't want to play in pain 
anymore. In leadoff, you're 
going to have more at-bats 
than the other guys. You must 
be running, always on the move 
to make things happen." 
Gaston still thinks Fernandez 
is the right man for the job. 
"I think inside, Tony would ­
really like to lead off," he said. 
Get a life! Join The Observer 
Thursday, March 22, 1990
page 16 The Observer 
Bird leads Celtics over Cavaliers 
BOSTON (AP) -Larry Bird Bulls 99, Atlanta 89 Bullets 136, Nets 106 scored 25 points and had his LANDOVEH, Md. -Lcdell ATLANTA (AP) -Michael
second consecutive triple-dou­Eackles, again filling in for in­ble as the Boston Celtics never Jordan scored 27 points and jured Jeff Malone, scornd a ca­trailed in a 123-114 victory the Chicago Bulls held Atlanta reer-high 40 points Wednesday 
Wednesday night over Cleveland to four points in the final five 
night and the Washingtonthat stopped the Cavaliers' minutes and beat the Hawks Bullets sent the New .Jerseywinning streak at five games. 99-89 Wednesday night Nets to their 21st straight road 
Bird had a season-high 16 The Bulls trailed 78-73 enter­
loss, 136-106. assists, one less than his career ing the fourth quarter and tied New Jersey lost its eighthhigh, and 10 rebounds as the it at 85 with 5:02 left on a steal 
consecutive game. The Nets, Celtics won for the fifth time in and layup by John Paxson. 
who won their first two road 
six games 'and tied New York Jordan's two foul shots put games this season. arc 4-30 for second place in the Atlantic Chicago ahead for good 89-87 away from home and have not Division, 1 1/2 games behind with 2:31 remaining. won at the Capital Centre since 
Philadelphia. Chicago added baskets by March 17, 1986. 
Despite Craig Ehlo's 27 Jordan and Paxson and foul Washington ended a four­
points and Mark Price's 24, shots by Jordan and Scottie game losing streak. The Bullets 
Cleveland lost a chance to move Pippin to complete a sweep of also had lost four straight at 
into eighth place in the Eastern its five-game season series with home. 
Conference. Its record dropped the Hawks. Malone. who leads the Bullets 
to 30-35, while Atlanta, which in scoring, sat out his second 
lost to Chicago, is 31-35. The Dominique Wilkins led straight game because of a 
top eight teams in each confer­Atlanta with 36 points. He was bruised thigh. Eackles has re­
ence make the playoffs. in double figures in each of the placed Malone and scored 71
.-. 
Reggie Lewis led Boston with first three periods but got only points in his absence. 26 points and Kevin McHale two in the fourth quarter. Steve Colter scored a season­
added 24. In Sunday's 122-106 Paxson scored 11 of his 15 high 25 points, Bernard King
win over New Jersey, Bird had points in the fourth quarter had 22 and Harvey Grant 20. 
29 points, 18 rebounds and 11 and had five steals. Grant 
assists. added 13 and B . .J. Armstrong 
After the third tie of the had 11. 76ers 118, Heat 97 game, 6-6, Boston went on a The Bulls hit 15 of their 18 PHILADELPIIIA -Hersey 12-2 run to take an 18-8 lead. field goal attempts and 32-28 Hawkins scored 12 of his 25 The Celtics led by three to 16 after the first quarter. Atlanta points in the third quarter and points the rest of the way and made five 3-pointers in the first the 76ers beat the Heat for the by at least nine throughout the period, setting an Omni record fifth striaght time. fourth quarter. for a quarter and for a half. Miami lost its fourth straight 
Bird hit all seven of his first­Wilkins and Doc Rivers each game and fell to 6-28 on the quarter shots and had 14 had two 3-pointers in the quar­road. The Heat played without points as Boston took a 36-20 ter and Wilkins got another at center Rony Seikaly, who had a lead with 41 seconds left in the the halftime buzzer. Wilkins's stomach virus. period. shot started an 11-0 run that Charles Barkley added 19 
Leading 89-80 early in the gave the Hawks a 60-58 lead points and Hon Anderson 15 fourth quarter, Boston got the with 9:04 left in the third quar­for Philadelphia. Billy next six points, four by Robert ter. Wilkins had nine of the 11 Thompson and Tellis Frank Parish. points. each had 16 for Miami. 

Hoops 
continued from page 20 
steals in tournament victories over Boston University and California. Clemson, led by the frontcourt duo of Elden Campbcll and Dale Davis, .likes to get the ball inside. 
"Connf)Cticut's defense is the key to the game," Clemson coaeh Cliff Ellis said. "It does not matter how big we are or anything. If we do not break their press, we do not win the basketball game on Thursday night." 
Duke, one of four ACC teams still left in the tournament, is 9­1 at Brendan Byrne Arena and has been to the Final Four three of past four years after winning a regional cham­pionship at East Hutherford. 
UCLA's top scorer. Don Mad.1~an, is slumping. After av­nraged 19.8 points in the regu­lar season, he has hit just 14 of 45 shots in his last four games. 
"Lately, I haven't been able to contribute much on olTense, so I figured I might as well do somf)!hing to help the tnam," said MacLean, whose efforts helped UCLA hold Kansas to 70 points in last weekend's seeond-round victory. 
Ill 
SOUTHEAST 
At New Orleans 

Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim brings his squad back to the scene of one of his worst disappointments, a 74-73 loss to Indiana for the national championship in 1987. The Orangemen lost the title on Keith Smart's jumper with eight seconds left. but Boeheim isn't agonizing over the trip. 
"I enjoyed it, except for the last eight seconds," Boeheim said. 
This time, the Orangemen faee Minnesota. in the round of 16 for the second straight year under Coach Clem Haskins. 
Richard, on assignment for Minnesota, guarding Syracuse's Derrick Coleman. 
''I've guarded a lot of good players," Coffey said, "but Coleman happens to be one of the best." 
Another tough assignment falls to Ken Redfield of No. 1 seed Michigan State. He'll be guarding Georgia Tech's Dennis Scott, who averaged 
27.6 points a game and hit 121 3-pointers during the season. 
"It's a great pressure," Redfield said. "I know that if he has a good night, they stand a good chance of winning." 
WEST At Oakland, Calif. Alabama coach Wimp 
''A MAGICAL AND MOVING RIDE:' 
-David AnS<n, NEWSWEEX MAGAZINE 

KEVIN COSTNER 
FIEIJDOF DRFAMS 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising ~epresentatives 
For more information contact Beth at 239-6900 or 283-2722 
ALUMNI -.. •. , ,,,., •· '"'"""" .,., •. ~ 

Thursday Grad Lunch 
NOUJ
i!=CLiiil 

* * FRIDAY LUNCH NOON -2 * * 
-
7~~~*·

Thun ••hi -Club Cup Nite DJ John Biscaino Fri Nlhl -Domestic Affair LIVE! 7k e(J4t ~ e~ &uut 
Salllle Baseball Nite DJ· TBA $priRgs Here! JUST DO IT! 
Sanderson says he doesn't want to consider what could happen "if we get into a track meet" with Loyola, which eliminated defending national champion Michigan 149-115 in the second round. 
Besides being the highest­scoring team in the tour­nament, Loyola also is running on the highest emotions since the death earlier this month of one of its star players -Hank Gathers. 
Coach Jerry Tarkanian says UNLV, the No. 1 send and another running team, must work on its defense against the tournament's biggest surprise, Ball State. 

---------------------~--------------------~~ 
Thursday, March 22, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Sanchez stuns Lendl in IPC play 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. (AP) ­Emilio Sanchez stunned top­ranked Ivan Lendl 6-3, 6-7 (7­
3) 6-4 Wednesday in a fourth-
round  match  at  the  
International  Players  
Championships.  

Lendl, the defending men's champion in the $2.1 million tournament, fought off three match points to rally from a 1­4 deficit in the final set. But trailing 4-5, Lendl was unable to hold serve and lost to Sanchez for the first time in four meetings. 
Sanchez, the 15th seed from Spain, advanced to the quarter­finals against Martin Jaite, who defeated Alexander Volkov 6-1, 6-1 in a fourth-round match. 
Earlier, third -seeded Monica Seles defeated Nathalie Herreman and Judith Wiesner upset No. 4 Manuela Maleeva to move on to the women's semifi­nals. 
Seles, a 16-year-old Yugoslavian who trains in Bradenton, Fla., dominated Herreman, of France, 6-3, 6-1 and will meet Nathalie Tauziat, a 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 quarterfinal winner over West Germany's Claudia Porwik, in her next match. 
Wiesner, the 15th seed, lost the first set of her quarterfinal 2-6 to Maleeva, of Bulgaria, but took the second 6-1 before closing out the match 6-2. She will face either top-seeded Gabriela Sabatini or No. 5 


100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA Featuri~MJ Frifty aipt...too4ltuHel 
CllllllaJIUy ltraclt 
219-259-9925 
Attention News Department: 

On Tues., March 27, there will be a meeting of all Assistant News Editors, Copy Editors, Day Staff and Reporters at 8 p.m. in the Foster room, 3rd floor LaFortune. Anyone who is interested in working in the News Department is welcome to attend. If you are unable to attend the meeting please contact Kelley Tuthill or Janice O'Leary at The Observer at 239-5303. 
Conchita Martinez in the semi­finals. 
Seles is in her second year as a pro and chasing her second victory. She won the Virginia Slims of Houston last year, beating Chris Evert in the final, but hasn't played as well as she'd like this season. 
"It would mean a lot to win," she said after ousting Herreman, who beat teen-age sensation Jennifer Capriati in the fourth round. "I haven't done so well in the beginning of the year. It would help my con­fidence." 
While Lendllost to Sanchez in the fourth round, Boris Becker bowed out in the third round and said it's a good time to be in a slump. 

1153 N. Doolbam SL 
Chlcogo. L -•o
312...,_ 

CBS to reschedule baseball 
NEW YORK (AP) Baseball and CBS could not complete their effort to restore the 162-game schedule on Wednesday, but both the commissioner's of­fice and the network said they were hopeful it could be done within a few days. 
The first week of the season was wiped out because of the owners' 32­day spring training lockout, and the first week of games must be rescheduled for there to be a full season. 
The option being given the most attention is extending the season by three days and trying to reschedule two games during the season, according to officials at the network, the commissioner's office and the players association. 
The New York Yankees rescheduled one of the three games they missed from their opening series against Cleveland on Thursday, April 12, which had been an off day before a three-game series at home against Texas. And the Boston Red Sox rescheduled a missed game at Detroit for April 12. 
"We're trying to preserve the 162-game schedule and we hope we'll be successful," said Rich Levin, a spokesman for the commissioner's office. 
CBS begins its $1.06 billion, four-year contract with baseball this season. The network expected the playoffs to start on Tuesday, Oct. 1, and the World Series to begin on Saturday, Oct. 13. 
Commissioner Fay Vincent said Tuesday the preferred method would be to play the last week of the season during the first week of October, and push back the postseason by a week. 
"It's very difficult to move around a week of prime-time programming," CBS Sports spokeswoman Susan Kerr said Wednesday. "I know the people here are working at 
it. .. 

Under the plan being dis­cussed, American League teams would make up their scheduled opening series during the season and play what had been their first scheduled weekend series on Oct. 1-3. 
AL teams only make two trips to each city per season, while National League teams make three trips to each team in their division. The NL schedule being discussed would make up the weekend games during the season and reschedule the missed opening series from Oct. 1-3. 
Dick Ebersol, president of NBC Sports, said he thought CBS was having problems rescheduling its prime-time programming to accommodate a change in the postseason schedule. 
"It shows where their strategy has taken them in a different place," Ebersol said Wednesday. "It really doesn't impact on the sports department." 
CBS, which has had a low­rated prime-time schedule in recent years, intends to use the playoffs and World Series to show commercials for its new fall series that will have just started airing. 

The Observer Thursday, March 22, 1990
page 18 

Dickerson adamant about retiring 
INDIANAPOLIS (APJ Despite facing a $1-million fine by the Indianapolis Colts. run­ning back Eric Dickerson says he'll retire on April 24 unless he's traded. 
The Colts said they will hold Dickerson to the terms of his current contract, which runs through 1990. Part of those terms, according to Colts gen­eral manager Jim lrsay, state that Dickerson must pay the team "in excess of seven fig­ures" should he not play this year. 
Meanwhile, some of Dickerson's teammates are wondering whether the contro­versy already has damaged re­lations beyond repair. 
"I don't think he's making it easy for himself,:; quarterback Jack Trudeau said. "It won't be like it was when he first came here, that's for sure. Every time he makes comments, he offends people." 
Dickerson was most critical of thn Indianapolis offensive line, which he said did not pro­tect him. He was hobbled much of the season by a hamstring injury, yet he finished third in the NFL in rushing with 1,311 yards. 

On Tuesday night, he told the Indianapolis News that unless he is traded, he'll retire on April 24. 
Til call a press conference and announce it," said Dickerson, who indicated he stands by statements he made in a Monday television interview in which he said he would not play for the Colts. 
lie said his agent, Daryl Henry, "has tried to talk me into thinking about it and going back. I told him, 'If I have to go back there, I'm through. Right after draft day, I will just an­nounce that I quit. I retire." 
Tackle Chris Hinton, a six­time Pro Bowl lineman, did not appreciate Dickerson's re­marks. 
"I've got to get upset with the things he's saying," Hinton said. "If he's doing it because he wants a trade or more money, he's not going about it the right way." 
Hinton defended his fellow linemen, saying much improve­ment had been made during the last season. 
Hinton said Dickerson's re­tirement threat should be taken seriously. 
"I think he's serious about it, if that's what it takes to get away from here," flinton said. "If the Colts force it to that point, I would not be surprised if he did it." 
Dickerson said Hinton was not one of the linemen -he wouldn't name the others-he was referring to in his criti­cism. 
"lie's one of the best linemen I've seen, in both ability and the way he plays with a lot of heart. What running back wouldn't like six Chris Hintons in front of him?" Dickerson said. ''But not everybody is a 
Chris Hinton." 


Eric .Dickers?n seems d~ter~ined to carry out his retirement plans, runnrng the rrsk of a strff frne rf he does not perform for the Indianapolis Colts next season. 



. .__ 
UConn 
continued from page 20 
them to the brink of insanity by trapping all over the noor and slapping at the ball at every opportunity. 
UConn surprised everybody west of the Mississippi by de­feating Georgetown and Syracuse to win the Big East Tournament, and was re­warded with two cushy opening round games in Hartford as the top sm~d in the East. 
Tonight's matchup against Clemson should be a typical UConn victory. The Tigers are strong inside with 6-11 twin towers Dale Davis and Elden Campbell, but weak in the backeourt. Tiger point guard Marion Cash faces the unenvi­able task of getting the ball past the UConn press and in­side to Davis and Campbell, Clemson's formidable "Duo of Doom." 
Cash and his backeourt mates will have to find a way to stop ultra-quick Husky guards Tate George, Chris Smith and John Gwynn. UConn's talented trio beat Syracuse's weak 
'iummt•rlnh., Over 50.000 summer JOb open1ngs at Resorts. Camps. Amusement Parks. Bus1nesses. CrUise L1nes. Ranches. and more 1n the U.S .. Canada. Australia. and 20 other countnes. Complete directory only $19.95. Don't wa1tt1il attsr l1nals Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039. Colorado Spnngs. CO 80937 
SUCCESS. GET AN EOCE ON COLLEGE EXPENSES. 
The Army can help you get an 
edge on college expenses in just 
two years. 
When you enlist and qualify for 
a certain skill, you could become 
eligible for the Montgomery Gl Bil 
Plus the Army College Fund. That 
means you could earn $17,()(X) for 
college with a two-year "''u'"'"'"''""' 
And the Army will give you 
another edge, too. You'll develop 
the self-discipline, self-confidence 
and maturity you'll need to 
succeed in college. 
Find out more about how you 
can get $17,()(X) for college in just 
two short years. Call your local 
Army Recruiter today. 
Army Recruiting Station 125 S. Hill St. South Bend (219) 234-4187 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

backcourt inside and outside in the Big East championship game and should be on the money against Cash and com­pany. 
If the Huskies get past Clemson, they most likely will face third-seeded Duke in the East Regional final. The Blue Devils are a well disciplined squad and they usually make the most of their opportunities at the foul line, so they should be able to solve UConn's press. 
Duke is a school with a good basketball program and a lot of class. Coach Mike Krzyzewski graduates all his athletes, and the Blue Devils have made the Final Four three times in the past four years. But aren't you getting sick of hearing about them every March? 
The Devils haven't been able to win the NCAA crown in any of those Final Four trips. Although I can sympathize with a coach who has a Polish sur­name which is impossible to pronounce, I'd like to suggest that if they aren't going to win it all, Krzyzewski and his play­ers should stay at home and give somebody else a chance to battle for the NCAA Championship in Denver. 
Does anybody really believe that Erie Dickerson has any in­tentions of retiring? His desire to leave Indianapolis is under­standable, but one should have serious doubts when an athlete in his prime claims he is going to retire while facing a fine in excess of one million dollars. 
The real question here is this: 

SafeWalk 
Call 283-BLUE 
2 5 8 3 
Student Escort Service 7 Nights a Week 
Sunday-Thursday 7:00pm -1:00am Friday and Saturday 7:00pm -2:00am 
Why are the Colts so reluctant ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
to part with their star running j,jiiiiiiiilll••••••••••••••••••••••..
back? The Los Angeles Rams 
have become a more exciting (and more successful) team since they dealt Dickerson to the Colts three years ago in order to allow quarterback Jim Everett to pass more. 
Location: Comer of Main & Fifth Niles, Ml 683-3317 

HAPPY Zlst BIRTHDAY 

SORRY WE CAN'T BE THERE TODAY. 
WE LOVE AND MISS YOU! 

Ihe£lbse~ 
is looking for a 
Day Editor 
Please contact Cathy Meere at 284-5228 or 239-5303 
·. 
Thursday, March 22, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS 

Thursday 
Last Day for Course Discontinuance 
4:30 p.m. Annual 3-Mile Fun Hun. Also a 1-Mile Walk. Stepan Center. Hegistration at Oak Room, Huddle, or Din­ing Halls. Sponsored by University Food Services. 
7 p.m. Lecture: "Juniors: Preparing for your Job Search" presented by Paul Reynolds of Career and Placement Ser­vices. 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
7 p.m. Lecture: "The Future of Proletarian Sparta: Civil­Military Helations and the Politics of Reform in the Soviet Union," Mark Van Hagen, Columbia University. Galvin Auditorium. Sponsored by Department of History. 
7:30 p.m. String Trio Concert. 19th Century Gallery, Snitc Museum of Art. Sponsored by Department of Music. 
8 p.m. Lecture: "The Space Telescope: NASA, Science, Technology & Politics," Dr. Robert Smith, Smithsonian Institute and Johns Hopkins. Hesburgh Lounge. 
8 p.m. Lecture: "The Significance to the U.S. Church and the Life & Death of Archbishop Romero," Father Nangle, C.S.C., Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by IPSM. 
8 p.m. Lecture: "Jewish and Catholic Immigrants to America: A Jewish Perspective," by Arthur Hertzberg, professor of religion, Dartmouth University. Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. 
MENUS  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Chicken Italiano  Baked BBQ Pork Chops  
Beef Turnover Eggplant Parmesan  Spaghetti w/ Marinara Beef Patty on Bun - 
Heuben Sandwich  Deli Bar  
CALVIN AND HOBBES  BILL WATTERSON  
W.. 1-1/>.! A FRO~T t>M;E  
WR.\TE ·UP! A Coii\MB-o\~T\'JE  
PLAQIJ£! A C\\1\( ctREII\Qt.l~!  
AlL FOR ME! ~~!  
I-IOOAA'(.'  
I  ~\Jr.  
-~­ 


CROSSWORD 
48 Lecture 50 Hairdo 52 Soft shade 55 End of the quip 59 Fall flower 60 President 
Carter's middle name 
61 " -Ordinary Man," song from "My Fair Lady" 
62 Darling, in Dijon 63 Wise men 64 Boy, in 
Barcelona 65 On edge 66 Blackthorn fruit 67 Obtains 
DOWN 
1 "-..-we forget 
2Vow 3 On the Coral 4 Irritates 
22 "Xerxes" 32 Papas' 51 Stan's sidekick 5 Wood strips 
composer helpmeets 
52 Agreement6 Spaces 34"-,·
24 Bobwhite 53 Tennis great 
7 Cinch allegiance!":25 Chicago airport 54 British gun 
Shak.
8 Kind of cat 55 Afrikaans 
9 Besmirch 26 Happen again 35 Shatter 39 Disraeli work 
56 Pierre's 

10 Of the seashore 27 Fights fat 
that caused girlfriend 11 Sultan of Swat 28Uian-, factory reform 57 Tilt Mongolia
12 Words of 42 Hunting dogs 58 Slaughter of understanding 30 Naval historian 44 Blowing hard baseball 
ACROSS 
1 Bank transaction 5 Tail end 9 Certificate 14 Rest 15 Florence's river 16 Shiner 17 Proofreader's word 18 Sports side 19 Downed, as doughnuts 20 Start of a quip 22 Minced 23 Deprivation 24 Uncovered wagon 
25 Choose from the menu 28 Double this for a candy 29 Letters on a radio 33 More of the quip 36 Dr. Zhivago's love 37 King topper 38 Combat missions 40 L.B.J. pooch 41 Tedious routines 43 Still more of the quip 45 Gaelic 46 Perceptive faculty 47 Beds at sea 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 




31 Search a 49 High home 60 Printers' 21 Toe tormentors suspect 50 Freighter's load measures 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


Sports 
Thursday, March 22, 1990 
NCAA tourney enters 3rd round 
Countdown to Denver marked by upsets in early going 
The Midwest Regional's top fans, many of whom bought like to run, and we like to run. 
three seeds -Oklahoma, NCAA tickets during the It should be fun." Purdue and Georgetown -are conference championships. Thursday's otlwr tournanwnt gone from the NCAA tourna­"They're talking about it action takes place in the East ment, and that leaves Arkansas being like a home court for Regional, where Connecticut in a risky position. Arkansas," North Carolina (30-5) meets Clnrnson (26-8), 
The Razorbacks, at No. 4, are coach Dean Smith said. "Not and Duke (26-8) plays UCLA the highest remaining seed in only the crowd, but the fact (22-10). The winners play the Midwest, the NCAA's own they've won six games through Saturday night for thn right to version of OK Corral. the Southwest Conference tour­go to the Final Four in Denver. 
Arkansas (28-4) meets North naments." On Friday, it's Minnesota 122­Carolina (21-12) in the first of North Carolina upset the 8) vs. Syracuse (26-6) and two Midwest games Thursday region's top seed, Oklahoma, to Michigan State (28-5) vs. night at Reunion Arena in get to Dallas. Georgia Tech (26-6) in the Dallas. In the second game, Southeast Hegion, and Loyola Xavier (28-4) meets Texas (23-Xavier also will be going up Marymount (25-51 vs. Alabama 8). against a hometown favorite in (26-8) and Nevada-Las Vegas 
While the trend in the Texas, revitalized under coach (31-5) vs. Ball State (26-61 in Midwest seems to portend bad Tom Penders. Xavier ousted the West Hegion. The two things for the Razorbacks, No. 3 seed Georgetown, while winners meet in the regional geography is on their side. The Texas eliminated No. 2 Purdue. finals on Sunday. Southwest Conference tourna-"We run and gun," Texas EAST ment was held at Reunion guard Travis Mays said. "We At East Hutlwrford, N.J. Arena, and an estimated 80 love it." Connecticut, tlw No. 1 set~d in percent of the fans who bought And that's why Xavier coach the East, uses a press and a tickets were from Arkansas. Pete Gillen is looking forward running offense, and tho 
It's estimated that about 65 to an entertaining game. Huskins had a combi111~d 35 
percent of the NCAA regional "They penetrate and shoot avoid the fate of tfop Midwecst seeds Oklahoma, Georgetown and tickets also went to Arkansas real well," Gillen said. "They Purdue when they ace North aro1inf::a:.:.·--------------------------------------------s_e_e_H_o_o_P_S_I_p_a_ge_1__,6 
Women's tennis team hosts Western Michigan Thursday 
Midwestern opponents Purdue, Indiana and Marquette await Irish challenge over weekend 
By BARBARA MORAN but finds it necessary in order 
There aren't many bad teams in 34th nationally, is Notre Sports Writer to squeeze in some Big Ten· college today . We just have to Dame's "best shot" for the competition. go out and play good tennis." tournament, according to 
The Notre Dame women's "We don't like to play four in Louderback expects today's Louderback. tennis team seems to have an a row," said Louderback. "It's biggest challenge to come from affinity for grueling weekends. not the ideal thing for us, but Western Michigan's top two "Barton has a shot at it," he 
It spent its last three days of sometimes it works out that singles players. Kathleen Meyer said, "and this weekend will be spring break in competition way. We want to play as many and Amy McClure, who will face big for her. She's got thnH~ big and, ·earlinr in the season, suc­Big Ten matches as we can, and Notre Dame's Tracy Barton matches, and the top Indiana ceeded in slamming four teams sometimes we have to crowd and Melissa Harris. "It should and Purdut~ girls arn ranked over a three-day weekend at them in." be a tough match for our top above her. She's thn best shot home. Beginning today at 3:30 The Irish will get to swing at for us."
two," said the coach. 

p.m., the team will embark on the Big Ten teams after they its toughest weekend of the get through today's match Tracy Barton's chances for After rolling through their season, facing Western against Western Michigan, Tracy Barton an NCAA bid could hinge on latest long weekend, the Irish 
Michigan at home today, travel­which is ranked eleventh re­this weekend. In order to qual­will have only six games left in 
ling to Indiana and Purdue, and gionally. Notre Dame (7-5), chalking up an easy win. ify for the tournament, she the regular season. Hopefully,
then returning home Sunday to which is ranked fifth in the re­"Well, you never know," cau­must finish the season ranked the Irish will continue to ride face Marquette. gion, should not have too much tioned the coach. "They've al­in the top four regionally. their current two-game winning Irish coach Jay Louderback trouble with its foe, but ways had a solid team. We're Barton, who is currently streak all the way to the finish 
dislikes this harsh scheduling, Louderback shies away from not going to take them lightly. ranked sixth in the region and line. 
Indiana hoops 
star settles on 
North Carolina 
after long wait 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Eric Montross, a 7 -foot center who led Lawrence North to the Indiana high school basketball championship last year and was one of the nation's most highly sought players still un­signed by a college, said Wednnsday he will attend North Carolina in the fall. 
Montross, who averaged 20.5 points and 13.8 rebounds a game this past season, earlier narrowed his choices to North Carolina, Indiana and Michigan. His father and grandfather went to Michigan. and his grandfather, John Townsend, was a Michigan team captain. 
lie announced his decision 
Wednesday afternoon at a news 
conference at Lawrence North. 
lie said he decided Tuesday night after talking with his family. 
"We talked about it and brought up each aspect of all three schools. It kept coming up Carolina." 
lin said he talked to North 
see MONTROSS I page 14 

..... 

Loyola Marymount, UConn solid entering third round 
Is there a high school bas­ketball player alive who wouldn't like to play for Loyola Marymount? An upset win over Michigan KenTysiac which secured a berth in the Sweet 16 and the Hank Gathers incident made· the 
Associate Sports Editor
whole nation aware of some­thing that people on the west coast have known for a long time; the Lions are a tough team to beat. 
Former NBA coach Paul Westhead has installed a run-and­gun attack unlike anything ever seen in college basketball. Loyola's press wears less-conditioned opponents down, and the Lion guards seem to have free reign to shoot the ball whenever and wherever they like on the floor, as long as they get the shot off quickly. 
Westhead deserves a lot of credit. In four short years he has turned an obscure program at a school with a hyphen­ated name into a team which is recognized nationally the minute it is mentioned. 
Even if the Lions lose to Alabama on Friday night, Westhead· has elevated the fast-paced game to a kind of crude art form which makes basketball purists shudder in contempt and forces statistics people to earn their keep. 
Win or lose, Marymount's remaining gamn(s) should be the most intriguing of the NCAA Tournament, and since this is a time of year when many starry-eyed recruits glue themselves to the television screen, Westhead's program is likely to in­herit some great talent. 
Although the University of Connecticut is much less frantic with the ball than Loyola-Marymount, coach Jim Calhoun's team has had similar success with its defense. The Huskies APPholo don't just shut down opposing guards; they drive them to the Chris Smith (13) and the University of Connecticut take perhaps the 
country's most formidable backcourt into their second round game see UCONN I page 18 against Clemson . 
\ 






