
VOL. XXIII NO. 124 THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
USSR to shift power 
New governments are formed 
MOSCOW (API -A. month tives. But Gorbachev has after crnating a presidential pledged to reduce their power structure with himself as head, to making broad policy deci­Mikhail Gorbachev has shifted sions. tlw burdm1 of setting policy on Gorbachev remains the Com­the economy and Lithuania munist Party ehief. as he has from the Communist Party to been for the past five years, but nnw government bodies. his eleetion to the post of pres­
But his dosest adviser has ident symbolized that pledge. left no doubt that it is neither And the shift of emphasis since the party nor nnw government then on his biggest policy hodins that make the final deci­headaches, Lithuania and the sions: it is Gorbachev himself. economy. appears to confirm 
On Saturday, Gorbachev says that such a change really is he will m1wt with his two new taking place. presidt~ntial advisory groups, Gorbachev's point man on the Presidential Council and the eeonomie reform, Deputy Council of the Federation, to Premier Leonid Abalkin, bluntly agree on a new set of economic told reporters the Politburo no rnforms. They arc expected to longer would be forming eco­bn by far the most radical the nomic policy. Soviet leader has attempted. 
Arter Lithuania last week re­
"The Politburo will not be jected Gorbachev's demand to making any decisions from now rnnounce its declaration of in­on, and it is already not making 
dcpendenee in order to open the decisions," he said. talks with Moseow, the Krem­"Decisions can be made by the lin's reaction came from the president, the parliament and Presidential Council. the Congress of People's 
The Soviet news agency Tass Deputies. Those are the deci­said Monday that "Members of sion-making entities now." 
the Presidential Council con­eluded that additional eco­The Presidential Council is a nomic, political and other mea­hand-picked advisory commit­
sures should be taken to pro­tee including such top Gor­teet the Soviet Constitution and bachev advisers as Politburo the intnrests of citizens living in member Alexander N. Yakovlev thn republie and the Soviet and Foreign Minister Eduard A. Union as a whole." Shevardnadze. For balance, it 
Gorbachev also has consulted includes conservatives like with the Council of the Federa­writer Valentin Rasputin of tion, made up of representa­Irkutsk and workers' represen­tives of each Soviet republic, on tative Veniamin Yarin of the Lithuania dispute. Nizhni-Tagilsk. 
Meanwhile, the Communist Party's Politburo and Central Yakovlev, in an interview with Committee have been silent. For Tass last week, emphasized decades they have been at the that Gorbachev might turn to heart of Soviet decision-mak­the Presidential Council for ad­ing, leaving the government vice, but that it is up to the only to implement their direc-president to decide. 


Contra demobilization troops 
United Nations General Augustin Quesada of Spain inspects 170 newly arrived Venezuelan troops with weapons Tuesday at the airport in Tegucigalpa. They are part of 700 Venezuelan troops that will begin demobilizing Contra rebels next week by taking away the weapons from them in Honduras. 
Earth Week to begin on April 16 
Day, 20 years ago, will give a By VALLI VAIRAVAN 
lecture at Washington Hall. News Writer In addition to events and ac­
tivities, the EA.C has been 

Earth Day, internationally working on continuous pro­celebrated on April 22, will be ~~.......f-41WW~-jects, such as the Green Pledge. preceded on campus by a week The pledge includes "the per­
of events from April 16-21. sonal things people can do in 
The purpose of Earth Week opportunity for students... it their daily lives, like buying en­and Earth Day is to "raise will be a directed discussion on vironmentally safe products awareness and educate people whether development can occur and recycling," said Joan about saving the environment," without hurting the environ­Kearns, EAC member. said Amy Jenista of the Envi­ment. Also the legislative writ­The Center for Social Con­ronment Action Club (EAC), the ing session (Friday, April 201 is cerns is one of the sponsors of group helping to organize the important, because the gov­the Earth Day festivities, and events. ernment needs to know that we according to Mike Affleck, co­
ordinator of justice and peace

Activities during the week in­want laws passed." clude brown bag discussion Activities planned for Earth education. It has been involved luncheons with campus profes­Day on April 22 include a run in this since last year, organiz­
sors, lectures by Daniel Luecke for the environment, Mass at ing the EA.C and the Hecycling Irish. "We play a supporting
of the Environmental Defense the Grotto with University 
Father role," said Affleck.
Fund, and tree planting on President Edward campus. Malloy and Father Mic.hael Jenista said, "We encourage Jenista commented on two Himes, and an Earth Day Fair everyone to keep their Sunday 
events of special interest, "I on the Fieldhouse Mall. (April 221 free. It is a good think that the [debate/panel Finally, on Monday. April 30, way for students to learn spe­discussion by campus experts, Senator Gaylord Nelson, the cific things that they can do to 
help the environment."

on Tuesday, April 171 is a good founder of the very first Earth 


Forum discusses ethnocentrism 
By MIKE TRUPPA judges group B by its own val­pride," added Bellis. News Writer ues." Panel mmnbers Tnresa Phelps, Paul Griffiths, Theology pro­a Law professor, and Diana 
Ethnocentricity, the belief that fessor, agreed. "Ethnocentrism, Matthias, Snite Museum's cur­one culture is superior to all in its descriptive sense," he riculum-structured-tour direc­others, was explored in its said, "is placing your eultural tor, discussed some of thnse ef­myriad manifestations by a notions of being human at the fects in their fields. live-professor panel discussion center of your being. It's an Phelps concentrated on Wednesday night before a essential part of being human. "anthrocentrieity," a cultural sparse crowd in Nieuwland If we don't do this we stop be­Hall. ing. To try to get rid of this is 
see DISCUSSION I page 4
Though the panel was entitled ludicrous." 

"Eliminating Ethnocentricity," Still. both speakers said that 
by its sponsor, the Multicul­ethnoeentricity's negative re­
tural Executive Council, some sults should be addressed. "In 
panel members doubted that another sense," said Griffiths, 
goal was possible. "ethnocentrism can relegate all 
"It seems utterly inconceiv­other ways of being human to able of a world without ethno­an inferior position, and so centricity because that would judges them to be worthy of at­be a world where one is unfa­tention. In this sense, it is 
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev addresses delegates to the 21st miliar with one's own culture," clearly pernicious and theoreti­
Congress of the Young Communist League in Moscow Tuesday. Gor­said Anthropology professor, cally avoidable." 
bachev recently shifted the burdens of the economy and Lithuania to Jim Bellis, defining ethnocen­"There can be some very dev­
the new Presidential Council and the Council of the Federation. tricity to be where "group A astating effects of cultural 
LAST ISSUE 
This is the last regular is· sue of The Observer before Easter Break. The Obstlrver will resume publication on Tuesday, April 1 7. The Observer wishes everyone an eniovable Easter. 

page 2 The Observer Thursday, April 12, 1990 
INSIDE COLUMN So, you want to go to Law school? The process of ob­taining a legal educa­tion is made up of many small steps that in some cases become a big leap into an abyss. As a second year law student I've had the chance to ob-L. Peter Vob serve the following preliminary steps in News Writer the process: •Step 1, deciding whether to go--Early in your junior year (unless you practice denial) start to think about the degree you will have when you graduate. Unless you're counting on that lotto thing coming through, after graduation you will have the option to ei­ther go back to school or find a job. Scan the want ads. In my own case, I saw very few job offers for political scientists, and so ... •Step 2, preparing to apply--A prepara­tion course for the LSAT is a very good idea, but expensive. Grit your teeth, cancel your awesome spring-break trip and fork over $650 to Mr. Kaplan. Enjoy martyrdom. Tell yourself that it will all be worth it someday, a phrase you will repeat often during the next couple of years. When the time comes to take the real LSAT, forget all that stuff about getting a good night's sleep and eating a balanced breakfast. If you can sleep well the night before a test that is going to change the course of your life, then there is something seriously wrong with you. The morning of the exam, eat a couple of Snickers bars and wash them down with Jolt Cola. Bring along at least eight newly sharpened pencils (in case the sixth back-up breaks during the test). After the exam, go home and set up your pup-tent next to the mailbox. •Step 3, deciding where to apply--Give Harvard a try. They may accidentally put your file in the "accept" pile. For other schools, if you're mundane, look at statis­tics on number of volumes in the library and student to faculty ratio. Otherwise, look at the caliber of the school's football and bas­ketball programs. Visit all the schools possible and compare the relative attractiveness of their under­graduate populations. Put Arizona State on the list, it's warm all winter in Phoenix and everyone there is gorgeous. Likewise, send an application to the University of Hawaii (yes, they have a law school). If your parents are paying the bill and see through this ploy, tell them that you are thinking about specializing in "vacation" or "travel agency" law. •Step 4, once you're in--If you survive the first week of law school you'll make it three years. Remember that law professors don't hate their students, they're just doing their job. In class, three piece suits are optional, but sweats are a definite fashion faux-pas. Don't trade your backpack in for a brief­case, and remember, no matter how bad things get, tell yourself that it will all be worth it someday. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 Today's Staff: Production News Accent Greg Tice Joe Moody Shonda Wilson Jeanne Blasi Kev Ryan Fran Moyer Debbie Lohman Joe Zadrozny V'ISWpOint Ad Design Julie Shepherd Sports Kerry Clair Kate Foster Theresa Kelly Maria Blohm Greg Guffey Tony Paganelli Systems Amy Eckert Molly Schwartz Business Cara Cesar Capella Sandra Wiegand Mike Kolar Circulation Graphics Caroline Clarke Chris Hanely Bradford Boehm Lu Medeiros The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

WEATHER 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure 
h

® © [r;t) ~ Eil D ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

All Campus Clubs are reminded that Student Activities Registration packets are due today. Forms may be picked up and returned outside Room 207 in LaFortune. 
Security has decided that the East Gate on Ju­niper Road will be in operation on a 24-hour basis. Vehi­cles with proper authorization will be allowed to use the gate as an alternate entrance to the campus in addition to the Main Gate. 
Due to Easter Break SafeWalk will not operate tonight. Operations will resume on Monday, April 16, at 7:30p.m. 
Of Interests are accepted at The Observer office to publicize free, one time events of general interest. Deadline is 1 p.m. 
CAMPUS 

Cyrus Rowlett Smith, an aviation pioneer, died at Andrzej Walicki, O'Neill Family Professor of Arts age 90 on April 4. Smith was the first chief executive of and Letters at Notre Dame, is one of the recipients of the American Airlines and was a longtime friend of Father Guggenheim Fellowship Award. Guggenheim Fellows areTheodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of Notre Dame. 
appointed on the basis of unusually distinguishedHe was a former member of the College of Business Ad­achievement in the past and exceptional promise for fu­ministration, a recipient of an honorary doctor of laws ture accomplishment. For 1990, 143 fellows have been se­degree from Notre Dame in 1968 and the donor of the lected from among 3,218 applicants for the awards.
C.R. Smith endowed chair in the College of Business Ad­ministration. 
WORLD 

President Mikhail Gorbachev warned in re­marks broadcast Wednesday that recarving internal Soviet borders would lead to civil war and "such bloody carnage that we won't be able to crawl out of it." Under Gorbachev's democratizing reforms, many have begun to clamor for lands that were historically theirs and for more freedom from Moscow. Lithuania based its March 11 declaration of independence on claims it was illegally annexed 50 years ago. Gorbachev has declined to imple­ment any mesures that would cause the redrawing of 
Soviet Union boundaries. 
INDIANA 

More than 1 ,500 friends and admirers, 
including first lady Barbara Bush and singer Michael Jackson, bid farewell Wednesday to Ryan White, the young AIDS victim who taught the na­tion a lesson in courage. White died Sunday of complications from the disease he had fought for more than five years. He was 18. Other cele­breties present at the funeral service were singer Elton John; talk-show host, Phil Donahue; and Los Angelos Raiders fotball player, Howie Long. 
A bodyguard hired to protect Motley Crue band members during a March 21 concert has filed suit against the heavy-metal band, claiming they hit him in the head with a cowbell during the show. Mark Elrod of Fort Wayne filed the complaint Tuesday in Allen Superior Court against Motley Crue and Vince Neil, the band leader. 
A car bomb exploded on a highway bridge in Medellin, Columbia Wednesday as a police patrol was passing, killing at least 14 people and wounding 73. Although no one claimed responsibility, police suspect lo­cal drug traffickers, who have been killing police officers in Medellin in retaliation to the government's antidrug campaign. Many of the wounded were listed in critical condition, among them, children. The cartel has pledged to continue these bombings and killings in response to police's alleged torture and killing of traffickers. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for April 11, 1990 


S&P Composite 341.92 ~ 0.15 Dow Jones Industrials 2,729.73 ~ 1.35 
Precious Metals Gold~ $1.10 to$374.30/oz. 
Silver~ 3.8¢ to $5.129/ oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 

On April12: e In 1861: The Civil War began as Confederate forces fired on Fort Sumter in South Carolina. e In 1945: Franklin Delano Roosevelt died of a cerebral hemorrhage at age 63, just three months after beginning an unprecedented fourth term in office. Vice President Harry Truman became the nation's 33rd chief executive. e In 1961: Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first man to fly in space, orbiting the earth once before making a safe landing. e In 1980: The U.S. Olympic Committee endorsed President Carter's call for a boycott of the Moscow Summer Olympics. 
Thursday,April12, 1990----------------------------~:::T:h:e::O:b:se:N:=e:r::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~----------------~p~a~g~e~J 
Easter weekend program to offer free phone calls home 
By CLAIRE ROBINSON 
News Writer 
During the Easter weekend, the Student Alumni Helations Group (SAHGl will be sponsor­ing its first Easter Holiday llost program. 
The program includes oppor­tunities to participate in com­munity service projects, make frne telephone calls home, at­tnnd an !<:aster mass. and visit a local faeulty member or 
alumnus  to  share  an  Easter  
nwal.  
According  to  Hichard  Daly,  

assistant dir11etor of thn Alumni Clubs, the Thanksgiving Holiday I lost program was sueh a pos­itive exJ>PrinrH'I~ for th11 stu­dnnls who participated. SAHG dPddnd to rninstate th11 pro­gram for 1\astPr. 
A ddinitP numbnr of partici­pants eannot ynl hP dnlnrminnd, sirH~e students may sign up as latn as 5 p.m. today. f."or the Thanksgiving program. 300 of the I000 students staying on l'ampus sigrwd up, as well as 150 alumni. faculty. and staff. I>aly said that lw hopes for tlw sanw amount of support for tlw l·:astl'f program. 
Students can volunteer to work as a community service leader or as a worker on a pro­ject. Phone calls require ad­vance registration, and times 
for the calls are assigned for Saturday afternoon according to dorm. In addition, Easter mass is at the Stepan Center at 
11:45 a.m. 
For Easler dinner, students may request to visit a home along with their friends. Hosts agree to serve between two and six students in their home. 
The Holiday Host program was an idea generated by a student. Daly said that he en­courages students with any suggestions or ideas to feel frne to eontact SARG. lie hopes that the Holiday Host program. as well as other SARG spon­sorl~d activities will help stu­dents to see the Alumni Hela­tions Group in a more positive light, and to take advantagn of thn enormous alumni support which Notrn Dame possessns. 
Studnnts desiring to partici­pate in tlw program or to offer idnas can find the SAHG office in Hoom 201 of the Administra­tion Building or call 2:{9-6193. 



'OCIINii 
...-.....................................................................................................................................-...................... 
~}~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~-~~~, 
~-·~..~f. REGGAE IS BACI< !
• 
~j.~
~ 
~·· 
~~: FetJ turing:
~ 

t~~ Rossi Cireggory 
~ 
·~ 

~!~ and the Enforcers 
~ 
~ 
t~~ at the NEW CENTER STREET 
~~ TON I G HT! 
t~~ ~~~ S~: 9:30 p.m. ~~~ 100 Center Complex 
~j.~ Mishawaka 
g~
·,~:-j-:,:,:~:,:~;,.,..,.,..,.,..~;_,.;,:~·~·rl'·JA·ri·,JI·~··ri;J':,:J':rl!rl'i~!rl'f,Jifrl'f~!'i~!Ji'lr!~
···~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·,·~·~·~· ··~·~·,·~· 

Jl.tantfji Osiris (ja6iam ~bert U'i{{iam Ivy 
:J-{enry 1(pnraa :J-{ar6ury tJJavitf Wei Lee 
Sfiannon Lee :J-{ougfi :Mari Of(ucfa 
XjmEedy :Micfie{{e Mitcfie{{ 

rrfi.rougli tlie Sacraments of Initiation 
CEI./Efl31(.9LPE1J .9/..rJ rJJ-{rE ~J4SPE1( rv'I(j IL on Saturaay, YLpri[ 14, 9:00p.m. at 
OFFICE OF 


STEP.913{ CE/J{TEt]( 0MPU)
MINISTRY 
l)nMt1,11'y Ol NOI"t O<J-t NOfll Oomt. IN •5~~5 
AP Photo 
Don't want to wait in vain


~~..:.:.: 
r 

Pilot Charles Bolden of the Discovery Shuttle mission STS-31 C:,; shows a disappointed face as he enters the crew quarters. The 
~..~ 

~.; mission was delayed because of an auxiliary power unit failure. 
,~; ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~~~~~~~~~;;~~ 
-~~ ~~l 
-
~ ~~~ 
~ 
~g 
!i 
~g ~~~ ~~j 
io:,: 
~~: 
.·. <,..········=······ 




~:if!~!i~1r~,~~ft1ll~~~ 
piCk up an application in the Student Activities Office~ ..\. .. De.(idlirie is Aptil 1.ii 
0 

··········· :•:• .?\t'
0 ::::::;:,::: •••

~-----------------------' 
. 
GSU leaders preside over first meeting 
News Writer 
Arsene Balihuta, newly 
elected president of the Gradu­
ate Student Union (GSU) and 
Edna Ilidekel, the new executive 
vice president, conducted their 
first meeting of the GSU last 
night. 
Balihuta said that there is a 
trend to make Notre Dame a 
very good research school, 
which means that graduatl~ 
students will become more im­
portant. 
Balihuta and llidekel both 
stressed that thn administra­
tion has been very positive 
about graduate student issues. 
They said that their prioritins 
inelude: 
•Healizing 
thn unity of all graduate students; 

•Facilitating 
interaction be­tween graduate students, fae­ulty and staff outside of the li­brary; 

•Creation 
of regular, ongoing activities and a permannnt so­cial space for graduate stu­dnnts; 

•Working 
with the adminis­tration on programs to fadli­tate interaction between grad­uates and undergraduates; 


One officer of the GSU will 
attnnd the undergraduate stu­
dent senate meetings and tlwre 
is hope that a student senator 
will attend each GSU meeting. 
Balihuta said that he hopes to 
"institute activities that will 
make graduate students more 
visible at Notre Dame." lie 
said that GSU began in 1969, 
and was founded on the idea to 
allow graduate students come 
together and talk about their 
needs. 
Other issues discussed at last night's meeting include: 
•Other new officers for the 1990-1991 academic year were announced. The secretary will be Karen Slawner, Catherine Hawes will be the vice-president for administration and the in­

formation officer will be .Jim Stukas. 
•.Joe 
Cassidy, director of stu­dent activities said that there has been a past perception that his office is only for under­graduates, but that he has made a point of going to the deans of the various colleges and telling them that he wants to work with graduate stu­dents. He also discussed the Leadership Seminar Weekend, which will be held during the first weekend of Sept. 

•A 
Womens' Resource Com­mittee Heport was given, noting that .Joan Beck, syndicated columnist for the Chicago Tri­bune, was sponsored to speak at ND on April 4, as part of the Year of the Family. 

•The 
International Students Committee report stated that GSU successfully sponsored two recent events. Last month GSU sponsored a Latin Ameri­can Pena and last Saturday held a social evening with the African Students Association. 

•GSU 
will also sponsor a speech by Panamanian Vice President Hicardo Arias Calderon titled "Three Months of Democracy in Panama." The speech will be delivered April 18 in Cushing Auditorium at 7 p.m. 


Balihuta and llidekel also said last night that they are ex­cited about GSU's Travel Grant Committee. The committee will allocate funds for graduate students to travel to confer­ences and the administration will match the funds. 


gatlierea at 
STEP~ CE9{TE2( 

runiversity of g{ptre '])ame 


. -~ -~---~----­
-~ -~ --~---------.--­
page 4 The Observer 


Agreement clears way for talks on future of German unification 
EAST BERLIN (AP)-Prime Minister-designate Lothar de Maiziere finished forming his government Wednesday and reached an agreement with political partners on East Ger­many's terms for unification with West Germany. 
The agreement clears the way for Parliament to formally put de Maiziere's government in office so it can begin talks with West Germany on merging their nations. 
"Now it is good,"' de Maiziere said after nearly a week of coalition talks ended. His con­servative alliance won a major­ity in the country's first free election March 18. 
No details were immediately available on the coalition agreement. But de Maiziere, whose Christian Democrats fa­vor speedy unification and a dramatic shift to capitalism, gave key ministerial posts to Social Democrats who favor a slower transition. Some con­cessions were likely. 
Many East Germans fear hard times when subsidies and other aspects of the 4-decade­old Communist system are scrapped. A new study said 1.5 million people in this country of 16 million could be thrown out of work in five years unless uni­fication brings a spurt of growth. 
On Thursday, Parliament is expected to formally name de Maiziere prime minister and in­stall his 24-member Cabinet, and the policy agreement is to be signed. Social Democrats were nominated to hold seven 
Discussion 
continued from page 1 
bias based on white male per­spectives. "In the American (legal) system we have a white male baseline. That's what we operate on," she said, noting that the validity of a self-de­fense plea is judged on the ca­pability of a male to defend himself from an unarmed ag­gressor. 
Phelps added that these an­throcentric problems "filter down into law schools," where where the standard entrance exam, the LSAT, "has been proven to be biased against women and minorities." 
Matthias said that museums today have corrected the 19th century's pervasive ethnocentric influences. "The point of view that one culture is better than another is gone now. I think that's an advance over what happened in the 19th century. We need to learn and appreci­ate different points of view," she said. 
According to panel member and Executive Assistant to the President, Roland Smith, when Notre Dame began recruiting minorities, "the expectation was that they would be like ev­eryone else." Since that didn't happen, he said, "It's important to do much more listening to other points of view. Increased dialogue may make us uncom­fortable with ourselves for a time, but it creates the oppor­tunity for the University to get to the root of all these issues." 
According to Fred Tombar, student body vice president, this is the purpose behind the panel, which is "to create cul­tural awareness and do away with cultural biases and stereo­types-and ethnocentricity is just that." 
of the portfolios, including party chief Markus Meckel as foreign minister and Walter Romberg as finance minister. 
In Bonn, a West German gov­ernment spokesman said Chan­cellor Helmut Kohl wants to sign a treaty on monetary union between the two states by May 6, with the currency merger to go into effect by July 7. 
Kohl's spokesman, Dieter Vogel, said the chancellor wants talks to begin as quickly as possible on the sensitive is­sue of converting East German currency into West German marks. 
But de Maiziere said an East German timetable for unifica­tion "was not yet fixed." 
An increasingly restive work force worried about rampant unemployment planned demon­strations to coincide with Thursday's second session of the nation's first freely elected Parliament. 
A farmers organization said it would drive tractors and farm implements through East Berlin to demand an orderly transition to private ownership of property. 
Telephone and other electron­ics workers fearing unemploy­ment called a three-hour strike Thursday in East Berlin. 
While workers worry about their future, foreign businesses have been flooding the East bloc to tap the new consumer market. The East German gov­ernment news agency ADN said 599 joint ventures have been formed since the borders were opened in November. Another 400 are expected by the end of April. 
It said 60 percent of the en­terprises are in the service and tourism industry, and about 96 percent involve West German companies. 
But East Germany would have to experience an 8.5 percent annual growth rate to head off massive unemployment, accord­ing to a study by the Institute for International Politics and Economics in East Berlin. 
ADN quoted the agency as saying a five percent growth rate still would result in up to 
1.5 
million jobless by 1995, and 

2.6 
million by 2000. 


De Maiziere's coalition favors quickly enacted laws allowing ownership of private property and private ownership of East Germany's factories and enter­prises. 
The Social Democrats want employees to be able to take part in ownership of factories. They say East Germans will face higher prices and many will lose their jobs as inefficient businesses and enterprises are closed. 
A key point in the coalition talks was how much the virtu­ally worthless East German mark would be worth in a uni­fied Germany. 
West Germany's central bank proposes exchanging most East German marks at a 2-1 rate to West German marks. Savings accounts with less than 2,000 marks, about $1,200, would be exchanged at a 1-1 rate. 
Happy Easter 
Love from 


Thcr Easter Bunny 

FLORAL CO. INC. 
MARY B. GREEN MICHAEL BAUER 

327 LINCOLN WAY WEST 
BRIDAL SERVICE FRUIT BASKETS FUNERAL TRIBUTES 

"Reweu lliCd GqQ 6M o! ettll6ielc6" FREE DELIVERY! 
• COME IN AND BROWSE 
IZI 

Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Sundays 9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon 
SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S SERVING SOUTH BEND, MISHAWAKA & GRANGER OVER 60 YEARS 
AP Photo 

Paying his respects 
Thursday, April 12, 1990 The Observer page·5 


Bush refuses appeal 
US policy denies Baltic freedom 
Members of the group said they had been seeking a meeting with Bush since January, recognizing that a crisis was looming in Lithuania's drive to secede from the Soviet Union and Moscow's refusal to let it go. 
"We have a lot of very good contacts on the lower-and mid­levels of the State Department. It's just the White House we haven't been able to penetrate," said Mari-Ann Hikken of the Estonian-American National Council. "We used to wear out the threshold of the previous administration." 
Yet, members of the group said the mere fact that Bush met with them will be seen in the Baltic states as a positive step. 
Hikken said, "Mr. Bush had a failure with China. He does not want to see a similar kind of thing happen in the Baltic states. 
"He's very concerned," she added. "He wants to lind a way out, a way out of the Soviet Union for the Baltic states that will not result in a cataclysm for the Soviet Union and that will not result in a blood bath for the Baltic states." 

Fitzwater said Bush told the group "the U.S. must avoid taking actions that would inad­vertently make Lithuania's task more difficult by innaming the situation" and stressed the im­portance of quiet diplomacy. 
Bush said he did not want to sec a situation akin to 1956 when the United States encour­aged Hungary's revolt for democracy but then stood by helplessly as the Soviet Union crushnd the uprising with force, Fitzwater said. 
Hikken said Bush was "very, very worried about what hap­pened in Hungary" and that "he kept bringing this up dur­ing the meeting." 
She said, "Our job is to con­vince him that letting the Baltic states go could be the best thing that would happen to thn Soviet Union." 
Fitzwater said, "We believe that our present position is the corrnct one and the president did not indicate that we were willing to change our position." 
Thn meeting fell one month after Lithuania's Mareh 11 declaration of independence. 
Since then, the administration has been walking a narrow diplomatic line, endorsing Lithuania's aspirations for self­determination but refusing to recognize the new government. 
While emphasizing that the United States never recognized the Soviet takeover of the Baltic states, the administration ar­gues that Lithuania does not control its own territory. 
Lithuania's determination to secede has posed a major chal­lenge to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, who is struggling on other fronts to carry out his programs of eco­
nomic and political reforms, known as perestroika, and openness, known as glasnost. 
While admonishing Moscow not to use force in Lithuania, Bush credits Gorbachev as a driving force behind the demo­cratic reforms in Eastern Eu­rope and changes within the Soviet Union. 
Fitzwater said Bush, in meet­ing with the Baltic-Americans, "pointed out in forceful terms that the United States ap­proaches this problem with many ramifications to consider. 
"He did say that we support glasnost and perestroika," Fitzwater said. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush spurned appeals from Baltic-American leaders Wednesday to recognize the renegade government in Lithuania. lie declared support for its struggle for indepen­dence but voiced concern about the impact on the Soviet Union. 
"Our policy, we believe, is the correct one and it does not in­volve recognition," White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said. 
Anthony Mazeika, director of the Baltic American Freedom League, said, "We are disap­pointed with the official policy of the United States" not to recognize the government of Lithuanian President Vytautas Landsbergis. 
Mazeika had urged Bush to extend "de facto" recognition of Landsbergis' government, one step short of formal recog­nition. 
Bush met for more than an 

hour with 13 Baltic-Americans In Jerusalem. an Israeli trooper armed with an M-16 assault rifle patrols around Israeli's Parliament representing the interests of building (background) this morning for the session when Labor Party Leader Shimon Peres was ex­Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, pected to present his Government. It later became apparent, however, that he would not win the vote which were forcibly incorpo­and instead asked the President Chaim Hersog for some more time before forming the new Government. rated into the Soviet Union in 
1940. 


MOVE UP MOVE OUTI 
At the end of the semester, the move is on ... to home, to a new apartment or a new job. Whether you're moving from a dorm or off-campus apartment, you'll find Hertz Penske's "do-it-yourself" move is quick, easy and very affordable. · 
Get together with a couple of friends or go it alone. Hertz Penske will help you "keep it all together" with everything from packaging materials and accessories to a moving guide that helps you plan every step. Our trucks are some of the newest on the road and are available with all the good stuff ... automatic trans­mission, air conditioning, radio, easy load ramp and much more. 
For an estimate of what your move will cost, or to make a reservation, call today. And be sure to mention your college to receive your "return discount," a 10% discount for your return to school. .. or your next move. 
1·800·111·0177 
Her~z 
PENSKE 
TruckRental 
-~--­

page 6 The Observer Thursday, April 12, 1990 

AP Photo
Satanic neighbors? 

Fidel Trevino Villarreal talks about the problems of living next to the Santa Elena Ranch where 13 mutilated corpses were discov­ered a year ago. Villarreal is trying to get electricity to his Mata­moros, Mexico ranch, but electric workers are afraid to come to his house where the ritual slayings occurred. 

STUDENTS SAVE 10% 
AND LarS OF TIME­Let us pack and ship your belongings back home for the summer, or to wherever your new career leads vou! 
NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALL! 
=BDXESfll/5.== 
SHIPPING + PACKING + CRATING 
MOV!NG & S10RAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PL£AS£ PRESENT THIS COUPON AT THE TIUE OF 
PURCHASE OR SHIPPING 
M-F 9AM -7PM
Ill. 
SAT 10AM -7PM 

SUN NOON -5:30PM
IVISA,. 277-5555 
Between T.J. Maxx and Venture 
The Smart College Studenfa Summer Checklist 
l. Job applications 
2. /USB SUMMER SCHEDULE * 
U------1990SUMMER SESSIONS ------+1 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY ATSOUTHBEND 
Session I: May 14-June 25 (Register May 9-10) 
Session II: July 2-Aug. 13 (Register June 26-27) 
*Summer Schedules available from IUSB Admissions Office, 1700 Mishawaka Ave., P.O. Box 7111, South Bend, IN 46634 (phone 219-237-4455). 

Make this summer count 
Government sued for 'biased' 1990 census 
NEW YORK (AP)-New York Dinkins said the city and partment last month concern­City and state sued the federal state sued the Department of ing the accuracy of this year's government on Thursday in an Commerce in U.S. District count. effort to boost an expected un­Court asking Judge Joseph The Commerce Department dercount of minorities in the McLaughlin to invalidate the has claimed the right to decide 1990 census, which they claim Census Bureau's "biased and whether the census's raw fig­uses "biased and unconstitu­unconstitutional guidelines" for ures are right or whether a tional guidelines." adjusting the expected under­post-census survey sampling 
The legal action was joined by count of minorities. should be conducted, as the the cities of Chicago; Los Ange­Around the country, more mayor and others have urged. les and Houston; Dade County, than 2.3 million of the 88.5 Commerce has said it has the Fla.; the State of California; the million census forms mailed out right to reject a survey even 
U.S. Conference of Mayors; the to households could not be de­though the survey might be League of Cities; the NAACP livered, the mayor said. In addi­more accurate on grounds that and the League of United Latin tion, 250,000 of them desig­it would "unduly disrupt the American Citizens. nated for delivery to residents transfer of political power in 
Mayor David Dinkins, calling in the New York City boroughs the United States," since census the undercount of urban mi­of Brooklyn and Queens had figures are used to determine norities "a national disgrace," been kept in the bureau's Indi­electoral districts, Zimroth said that problem and other ana warehouse, he said. said. factors would mean "cities The city maintains it was un­Zimroth complained, "That across the country will once dercounted by 450,000 people means the Department of again lose hundreds of millions in the 1980 census and subse­Commerce would decide what is of dollars in federal aid and quently lost one congressman, fair representation." dozens of seats in Congress." one state senator and one state The Commerce Department 
"Yet the national government assemblyman as well as $657 had no immediate comment on -from the White House to the million in federal aid, which the lawsuit. Commerce Department to the was based on population. Census Bureau -seems to Former City Corporation Mayor Jimmy Kemp of want to pay it no mind. They Counsel Peter Zimroth, who is Meridian, Miss., a member of have gotten away with statisti­serving as attorney on the law the census task force of the cal malfeasance for 200 years suit, said the city and state are United States Conference of and figure they can get away seeking to overturn guidelines Mayors, joined Dinkins in the with it for another 10." set forth by the Commerce De-press conference in City Hall. 

ANDYOU 
THOUGHT IT DIDN'T 
PAYTOSTUDY 
20% DISCOUNT FOR STUDENTS. 
Don't worry. You don't need any books,just a valid college I.D. and a StudentsFirstSM Card, because this is the Midway Airlines® 10Plus 10College Student Discount. It's simple addition. If you're a student, Midway already offers you 10% offeven our lowest fares. Plus with your StudentsFirst Card, you 'II receive another 10% offof that. 10 + 10 = 20'}(, savings on all fares to anywhere Midway flies in the U.S. and the Caribbean. 
To get your card, simply present your college I.D. to a J\:lidway Airlines student representative and pay a one­time fee of $15.00. The StudentsFirst Card is your ticket to take off to someplace hot, cold or anyplace in between. Think of it as your reward for all those lecture classes you've been sitting through. You have been sitting through them, haven't you? Sure you have. 
Contact your student representative at: 
UniversityofNotre Dame 
Raymond Parhad 
(800) 621-5757 

MidwayAirlines® 
WHAT FLYING SHOULD BE'" 
©1990 Midway Airlines, Inc. 


Business
Thu~day,Aphl 12,1990 
page 7 

1989·90 Allocations
Businessmen d1scuss effects of a European Common Market in '9 
By PATRICK NINNEMAN 
Business Writer 
hlur business officials, rnprnse n ti ng .J apanesn, Huropnan. and American perspectives, spokn Tunsday night on tlw ramifications of a Europnan Common Market in I 1J1J2. 
The nv!Hlt was thn second annual spring forum of the Notre Damn Council on International Business llnvnlopment. Most comments worn optimistic about the possibility for greater world tradn as a rnsult of unification. although somn skepticism was expressed regarding the possibility of increased trade barriers for non-european exporters. One speaker also 
qtwstioned  the  ability  of  
Common  Market countries  to  
completdy unify by 1992.  

Tsugio Kusajima, Executive Director of the .Japanese Extt~rnal Trade Organization in Chicago, spoke first about .Japanese fe!dings towards Europe in 1992. lie noted Japanese fears about a huge European fortress where non­european goods are not welcome. lie said Japanese companies "are moving quickly to get in the door while the door is still open." 
Kusajima said Japanese capital investments, such as joint ventures and direct acquisitions, have increased tremendously during the 19HO's. In 1988 alonn, Japan directed over ten billion dollars worth of capital towards the common market. 
Still, he expressed fears that trade barriers will be erected to Japanese goods once the market unifies. fie said that "already European automakers are lobbying EEC offieials to limit thf~ number of imported Japanese cars." These fears persist even among reassurances by European officials whom, Kusajima nott~d. realize the dangerous practice of erecting vast barriers to trade. 
Bob Lees of l'aeific Intertrade Corporation spoke also on the 
.I apanese vinw towards thn Common Mn rket. lie noted past Japanesn discouragPnwnt with the Common Marknt. "They felt that !the Western Europeans! could not do anything right with the socialist on one sidn and rightists on the othor." Now. according to Lees,they cannot ignore thn unified market with it's over 300 million ready consumers. 
Lees said the unification is a healthy situation, for it has encouraged trcmflndous investment in EEC countries, and in particular with England. lie noted that "Japan, the U.S. and other countries have been put on notice that not only are they going to sell to Europe, but they must contribute to it's wealth. This investn been coerced through veiled threats of protectionism, but Lees docs not see Europe in 1992 as a fortress. lie said that "all European officials 
realize  protectionism  is  
unhealthy."  
Paul  Neubelt,  Director  of  

Foreign Helations at B.D.O. Seidman in New York, spoke on the Unitnd States perspective towards the EEC. He said that the excitement over a unified market has brought a resurgence of American interest in Europe. ;\lso he remarked that American companies that have maintained a strong presence have seen a healthy return on their investments. 
lie argued that there is no time left to lose for American companies not yet in Europe. He said that U.S. companies that are not there "will lose in the long run." The strong companies in the U.S. will be the ones with revenues coming in from both sides of the Atlantic, for if one market is depressed, the other can help maintain the overall profitability of the company. 
The final speaker was Terry Clark, assistant professor of Marketing at ND. Clark hails originally from northern England and consequently spoke on the European/English perspective towards the 
common market. He seemed the most pessimistic of all the speakers towards a completely unified market by 1992. 
lie said the Common Market is "similar to building a bridge. One must take into consideration the mechanics of standing up versus the mechanics of falling down." If the market successfully unifies the contributing factors will include a single "motivating vision ... a collective vision." 
Many Europeans realize they must unite in order to succeed. Foreign investment has also made Europe realize the ultra­competitive world outside Europe and forced them to cooperate. Finally, the propaganda surrounding 1992 has helped push forward unification. Many inside and outside the Common Market have believed the media hype and acted positively towards the idea of a common market by 1992. 
Many obstacles exist to unification. Clark mentioned the strong nationalism and "friendly disdain" of many EEC countries. He noted that often EEC policies will run into conflict with an individual country's policy, such as when EEC competition will ruin an industry for a particular region of an EEC country. Finally, he said many countries, particularly Great Britain, are more interested in protecting their sovereignty than in cooperating with other EEC countries. 
SObering Advice·· can save ar·~ 
Think Before You Drink 
~···

Before You Drive .... 

Remaining Funds 

*Received additional income above original allocation. **Shows considerable balance level due to Senior Formal deposits in account. 
)ource:Student Government financial update of March 26 The Observer/Alison Cocks 
Budget Committee maintains budget first time in four years 
1989·90 Budget 
From a total of $74,450 

Amount Remaining %Spent 
$18,395.28 71 $0.00 100 $21,609.23 46 $142.04 87 $3,164.89 $48,788.00 $2773.56 65 $5552.76 55 $1,453.00 48 
Amount Remaining %Spent 
$4043.71 77 $3,454.38 63 $9,617.44 56 
•

$2,154.41 $1,799.00 64 $1,038.37 93 $463.69 42 $362.68 81 
From a total of $133,122 
ALLOCATIONS Budget Unit 
Clubs Club Coord. Council Hall Presidents Student Senate Judicial Council Senior Class Junior Class Sophomore Class Freshman Class 
BUDGET Budget Unit 
Administration Student Life Intellectual Life Board of Trustees Special Projects Public Relations Legal Department NAASCU 
1989-90 Budget 
$63,625 $400 $40,000 $1,150 $3,150 $6,391 $4.234 $10,172 $3,000 
1989-90 Budget 
$18,150 $9,500 $22,000 $1,000 $5,000 $16,000 $800 $2,000 
By SUSAN MINAHAN 
Business Writer 
The Notre Dame Student Government Budget Committee has been successful, for the first time in four years, in remaining within their budget, in eliminating debts, and in making some changes and 

innovations  which  will  be  
advantageous  in  future  
allocation of money.  

According to Guy Weismantel, chairman of the Budget Committee, and 1989-90 Student Body Treasurer, the 1989 -1990 Budget Committee has covered last year's debts. and has kept within this year's budget of approximately $410,000. 

"In the past years." Weismantel said, " there has been little financial control because Student Government was not a part of university budget control." It was not until this year that student· government went on H computer system in which a day-to-day balance is kept, and tightAr control is maintained. 
Another innovation for the student government Budget Committee is that of the Club Coordination Council, begun by Tom Rask. The Council has given clubs a larger role in preparing budgets by helping to determine allocation of funds. 
According to Jim Hanley, 1990-91 Student Body Treasurer and formerly one of the two assistant student body treasurers, "The council meets with individual club representatives to work out a reasonable proposal for club allocation. It then submits the proposal to the Senate Budget 

Committee  which  makes  the  
final decisions.  "  
This  method  not  only  lets  

clubs participate to a greater extent, it has also generated more money for club activities. For the 1989 -1990 fiscal year. clubs asked for approximately $160,000, according to llanlny. The budget Committnc was able to allocate approximately 

$65,000, or 15% of their total budget to the clubs. Next year. as a result of the Club Coordination Council, clubs will receive approximately $80,000, or 20% of the student government budget. 
Other allocations of the Student Government Budget for the 1989 -1990 fiscal year. go to the Student Union Board (approximately $170,000), the Student Government ($5,000), halls, and Hall President's Council ($40,000), the senior class ($12,000), the junior and sophomore classes ($1 0,000 each), and the freshman class ($3,000), Weismantel said. 
Any money remaining in the budget at the end of the year is placed in a Contingency Fund which collects interest and which also may be used for any financial emergencies, he said. 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, April12, 1990
page 8 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks 
Managing Editor John O'Brien 

News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Viewpoint Editor •......••••••••Michelle Dall Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Editor ..•••...Corinne Pavl~ Busln... Manager Kathleen O'Connor 
Advertising Manager ..•••••.•Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager .••.•••••••• Amy Eckert Production Manager •••••••.Joe Zadrozny Systsma Mgr .... Bernard Brennlnkmeyer OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller....•.•••••••••.••..•••Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Ia reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials rapresent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-In-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, VIewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
Hispanics emerge as a powerful minority 
By Paul Peralez 
In 1992. the world will com­memorate the SOOth anniver­sary of Spain's discovery of the Americas. The Southwest United States, in particular, has a reason to celebrate. In the architecture, place names and faces of the people, the Southwest United States is a vibrant reminder of the Spanish legacy. The entire nation is be­coming increasingly aware of our presence and we Hispanics are becoming more aware of our potential to shape this na­tion's future. 
The United States Census Bureau has been promulgating surveys to every household in America. Contained therein was an entire section devoted to the question of Hispanic ancestry. That such a signifi­cant portion of the question­naire was devoted to ascertain­ing the number of Hispanic re­spondents is indicative of the increasing visibility of Hispanic Americans and the need for government to accurately mea­sure the extent to which our numbers could impact the na­tion's political and economic future. 
The condition of Hispanics in America truly merits examina­tion for ours is the youngest and fastest growing ethnic group in the United States. Presently numbering nearly 20 million, almost 10 percent of the American population. the 1 990 census promises to reveal an even greater presence of Hispanic Americans. As our numbers and level of political sophistication increases, we will assume a greater share in this nation's economy of power. True, we are not culturally ho­mogeneous nor politically monolithic--we are Mexican, Cuban, Puerto Rican, and a 
DOONESBURY 

host of other Hispanics from a total of 23 Hispanic nations. Our common heritage and lan­guage, however, will most surely allow us to coalesce as we seek economic empower­ment, and political and social recognition. 
The southwestern United States is quickly emerging as the economic heart of the na­tion. The Northeast is losing thousands of people to the Southwest who seek space and jobs. A new tide of immigrants is simultaneously arriving in the Southwest. They are not fair skinned nor are they really arriving in a foreign land. They are shades of brown, Spanish­speaking, and often poor. They seek to live in a country which their ancestors inhabited long before English was ever spoken in the Western Hemisphere. These immigrants represent the single largest increase in the Hispanic population--an in­crease which has significantly impacted our nation's economy. 
In cities across the nation, Hispanics are emerging as ma­jor brokers in a competitive market of political and eco­nomic power which hitherto had ignored the Hispanic American. Times are changing. By the turn of the century, Hispanic majorities promise to emerge in several states. 
...'(oo HAY£ TH £ RIG!HT Tl> REMAIN 
SIL£NT... 
I 

••oo 


Among the Hispanics in our na­tion's colleges and universities are several aspiring Hispanic businessmen, politicians, and professionals who will one day seek to harness the economic and political power of the Hispanic consumer and voter. 
Advertisers find it too diffi­cult to ignore an $80 billion and growing Hispanic market. In 1989, they spent over $300 million in advertising targeted at Hispanic Americans, a 300%' increase from 1982. With sales totalling $30 billion, Hispanic Americans owned nearly 500,000 businesses in 1989. At a time when upwards of 60 percent of Hispanic youth drop out of high school and when statisticians and academics bemoan the plight of the Hispanic community, our people have collectively produced a considerable amount of wealth which continues to grow at a steady rate. 
In the 1988 presidential race, George Bush and Michael Dukakis both sought to woo Hispanic voters. George Bush often noted that his daughter­in-law was Mexican. And, yes, in a moment which Hispanics will long remember and note as an affirmation of our growing political power, Michael Dukakis broke into Spanish during his address to the Democratic N at ion a I Convention. Indeed, politicians are beginning to realize that they can no longer afford the luxury of ignoring Hispanic Americans. 

In Los Angeles, San Antonio, Chicago, New York, Miami, and Denver; Hispanics have pro­foundly influenced the political make-up of their governments. Not since 1846, when the United States stole the vast Southwest from Mexico, have Hispanics been so poised to as­sume control of municipal and state governments. What makes Hispanics potentially the most powerful ethnic minority in the United States is that our numbers are concentrated in the four large states of New York, California, Florida. and Texas--states which together represent a sizeable portion of the electoral votes required to elect a President of the United States. 
Indeed, we Hispanics will dif­fer in our perspective and aspi­rations. We will differ in our political ideology and economic necessities for the term "Hispanic" embraces a very 



large and diverse group of peo­pie. Among us are the scions of Spaniards, Sephardic Jews, Aztecs, Mayas, Moors and Incas. Our unity rests upon our common use of the Spanish language and upon a an ances­tral heritage that originated in a country called Spain. We know that conquistadores were here carving out a new world long before anyone else could arrive to lay claim to it. We know that the blood of the peo­ple who built the pyramids of ancient Mexico, the blood that early Spanish colonists shed on American soil, and the blood of the brave men who valiantly fought in this nation's defense, is the same blood that courses through our veins. With thii> proud consciousness of our past. we Hispanics view the po­litical representation and eco­nomic prosperity that is the promise of this land not as a privilege but as a condition we are entitled to by birth and by right. 
Paul Peralez is enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies and is the founder of the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) at Notre Dame. 
LETTERS 
Christmas in April helps improve living conditions of residents 
Dear Editor: 

On behalf of the Christmas in April Steering Committee, I would like to thank all of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who helped make the Christmas in April project on April 7 a grand success. Be­cause of your generous dona­tion of time and energy, numer­ous residents of the West Washington Street area of South Bend now have a warmer, safer and more decent place to live. 
As was the case last year, the efforts of the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's carried the day. The South Bend/Mishawaka community is truly fortunate to have such a caring group of students in its midst. 
Patrick Doran 
Assistant Director of 
Residence Life 
Aprilll, 1990 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 


'Forgive me all my trespasses and take me to Your glory.' 
Victor Hugo Les Miserables 

.r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-
Accent 
----------------------------------------------~ 
Thu~day,April 12,1990 page 9 
No Barrier too great for deaf ND Law student 

Debbie Charlesworth In the classroom. Andrew the term is ambiguous. When Accent Writer has a sign language inter­there is no sign for a legal 
A 
preter, Marilyn Corlett. term, Marilyn often spells the ndrew Firth is a first Although Andrew can lip term out. This does not take a year law student at read, Marilyn allows him to long time because signing is Notre Dame. Ile is accurately understand what very similar to typing. In faet, difl'tmmt only in the the professor is saying. signing can be as fast or even fact that hn is the first During dasses, Andrew faces faster than speaking. corn ph~tely deaf student to at­his interpreter who sits with When Andrew came to tend thn law school. her back to the professor. Notre Dame, he expeeted it to 
Andrew graduated from Andrew and Marilyn have be academically challenging. Gallaud(~t University in developed their own codes for Andrew also expected the Washington, D.C., thP only eol­some of the legal jargon used university to be more aecom­lngn for the hearing impaired in the lectures. For example, modating in regards to his 
in thn United States. the sign for judge, jury and handieap than they are. Notre 
Contracting spinal meningitis court arc the same. Usually, Dame has no department to as a baby, Andrew has been Andrew watches Marilyn's deal with interpreting services deaf since he was an infant. mouth as well as her hands if for the deaf. nor does it have 
any staff or facility for deaf people. 
When Andrew arrived at Notre Dame, he was referred by the university to Vocational vcrsities, such as the earned above average grades. Rehabilitation, a state run University of Illinois, but this lie just reeently was named agency. The agency set is her first time interpreting best speaker in a moot eourt Andrew up with an uneertilied law school lectures. case on publieity rights. Moot interpreter who was Usually it takes eight years court entails presenting a 15 inadequate for the tcehnical to reach a Comprehensive minute argument, as well as a interpretation needed to sign Skills Certifieate level of written brief, which was for a law student. eertifieation. Marilyn, judged by two lawyers and a 
Two weeks before classes however, was raised by deaf third year law student. were to begin. Andrew took parents. This fact made her After graduation, Andrnw the matter into his own hands. training that mueh more rich plans to provide legal services He contacted the Chicago than the elassroom to deaf clients. I le will be Hearing Soeiety , an agency experience. joining an elite group. In the which locates interpreters for Both Marilyn and Andrew United States thP.re are deaf people, who then con­are extremely dedicated to presently fifteen deaf lawyers. tacted Marilyn and matched what they are doing. Marilyn Despite the initial obstacles her with Andrew. leaves her home in Kankakee, of locating a qualified 
Marilyn has achieved the lllinois at 5:30 in the morning interpreter with little help highest certifieation in sign and drives two hours to make from the university. Andrew language in this area. There Andrew's 8 a.m. class. has no bad faith in Notre are other interpreters eloser Andrew's dedication to law Dame. I le does, however, hope to South Bend, but none are school is evident in his that in the future the school as qualified to sign in such a preparation for his classes. will be better equipped to ac­highly technical field. Marilyn Andrew has eomprehended commodate the needs of deaf has signed at other uni-all the information and has students. 

Darby O'Gill Meets the Easter Bunny's Mother 
S 
land by, please, for a shy, some days, he chases the rab­beasts survive. The mainte­him? Until recently, he must 
proud and happy bits; on other days, they chase nanee department has been have believed-if he ever 
announeement. Ever sinee him, as though they want to Father Robert Griffin turning the playing fields into thought of theology-like Huth 
Groundhog's Day, the make love to him. As a celibate Letters to a Lonely God parking lots, and landseaping in the Bible, that my God was motlwr of the Easter Bunny has animal, Darby always steers the nests and burrows right out his God, just as my people arc been making appearances to clear of trysts that could bring of existenee. Now the queen his people. Easter, for him, has my cocker spaniel. Darby O'Gill shame on those guileless crea­ehapter ealled 'The Piper at the mother of rabbitland is warning only been a feast when he was 
II. tures he meets in his sporting Gates of Dawn," from "The us of the nature-god's distress. fed jelly beans. I never dreamed 
Looking back, I can see that it life. But this year, through Wind in the Willows," by If, in the name of progress, that Easter meant anything to must have been that day that February and March, Darby Kenneth Grahame. In that Notre Dame doesn't stop him as the re-birth of nature,the visions began, because I has been rendezvousing with book, the great god Pan-the destroying the fauna and flora, sinee coeker spaniels are not had great difficulty getting him rabbits, who scamper across god of all nature-visits the depriving them of the right to fertility symbols, as chicks and away from the fire hydrant in the lawns from all directions to Mole, the Water Rat, and the exist, she says, Pan will be Easter bunnies are. I never front of Haggar Hall. When I greet him, offering him the kind baby Otter who live on the river forced to hide the sun, and hold dreamed, either, that amongfinally coaxed him inside of respect that only an elder bank, and in ecstatic union, back the rain which causes the Easter bunnies, that there is a Stanford. where Darby and I statesman is entitled to. those blessed animals worship green living things-bushes, head bunny in charge, who has live, he was so exeited, he As a human being, I was too their deity. Human beings may trees, and grass-to grow. As a a mother who ealls the plays.trnmbled all over. At first, I sophistieated to suspeet that my onee have known Pan in their result, this Emerald City could At least I knew from litera­suspnr.tnd that he had imagined dog was having religious distant past; but on the first start to look like industrial New ture about the great god Pan. meeting a sabre-toothed squir­experienees. One night, St. Good Friday, when the veil of Jersey, ofT the Garden State From all I've read, he is gra­rel, whieh had questioned my Praneis of Assisi sent me a the Temple was rent, a voiee Parkway. cious, and not a tyrant; perhaps
dog's tnrritorial rights over the dream which would be hard for was heard crying, "The great That's not the only news that the Easter Bunny's mother has usn of the hydrant, a campus me to put into words here and god Pan is dead!" After that, Darby ()'Gill is entrusted with, the message wrong. The Easter landmark for Darby. Then I now. But from then on, it was the Pan-pipes were heard no as a visionary who relies on me Bunny shall have his p,gg hunt, startnd to snnse that his emo­clear that when Darby O'Gill longer in the sanctuaries built as his legman. As an act of if it be Pan's will, though the tions were joyful and rapturous, stands transfixed by his fire by man, now raised to a state of reparation to the rabbits made event may be too small for the 
eomplt~tnly free of fear. hydrant, the Eastnr Bunny's graee. But ereaturns, who never homeless, and as a pledge of Notre Dame stadium; to fill all Wlwn, for a wnPk, he contin­mother. dressed in a velveteen sinned, and had no need good will guaranteeing Notre the hiding spaces then~. where twd to have the same dumb at­apron, is visiting him, filling his therefore of Christ's redemp­Dame as a home for the wild would we get the eggs? Even a 
tachmnnt (as it snenwd to me) head with secrets, while Darby tion, were left, still in the earn life, the mother of the Easter god of all-nature must bt~ loving to that silly rPd pi pP sticking listens in a posture like that of of Pan, their friend and helper, Bunny is demanding that a and forbearing. Could Pan love out of the ground. I checked the prayer that endears him to my since they still have their origi­mammoth Easter egg hunt be Notre Dame enough as a hydrant to see what the attrac­heart. For hours afterwards, nal innocence. held in honor of her son, at the wildlife sanctuary, do you think, tion was. To my amazement, I he's in no mood to eat or drink; Now in these latter days, Notre Dame stadium on Dyngus to lay down his life to save noticed the smell of wild-grow­and he obeys me like a saintly strange to say, the great god day, the Monday after Easter. Notre Dame from becominging carrots in thn air; and the cocker spaniel which has never 
Pan is apparently sending the She wants every Miekey Mouse industrial New Jersey ofT the grass was slightly bent, as been pampered or spoiled. Easter Bunny's mother on daily eharaeter imaginable to be Garden State Parkway?though thn fnnt of a mystical or Every day, the rabbits that visits to Notre Dame; and as the there, which means either the This may be one of the mys­nwtaphysical rabbit had bnen Darby's in communion with only long-time pet living in a east from Disneyland, or the teries of Darby O'Gill's faith using thosn bladns of grass as a bring him their ehoiecst dorm, Darby has been chosen sporting figures from Notre that I can't figure out for him. I eushion. morsels, in gratitude for his as her spokesmutt, to warn us Dame's wide world of sports, have an Easter faith which I'm 
The next clue to the phe­sharing with them the details of that our eampus is a grievanee though some of those coaehes willing to share with him; per­nomenon that I was so slow to his visit with the queen/bunny­to Pan. Notre Dame, you see, and players may not even be­haps he can go on my ticket to understand was the entourage mother, whom Darby has has always been regarded as a lieve in the Easter Bunny. heaven with me, when our time from the rabbit population that adopted as his own, beeause he heaver-favored sanetuary and What I want to know is, "If eomes. In the meantime, I Darby was attraeting every hasn't had a mother sinee he habitat for the birds and the we can't arrange it for this year, wouldn't want to come between 
time I took him for a walk. left the puppy farm when he will Dyngus Day 1991 do as him and the Easter Bunny's
beasts. Darby has always enjoyed a was nine weeks old. Lately, however, with all the well?" As low animal on the mother. It does me good to friendly kind of adversarial re­Why has Darby been ehosen building going on, the bull­totem pole, how should Darby share my living quarters with a lationship with the local cotton­for this great honor? Perhaps dozers have eome and are de­O'Gill know? What should visionary. Through Darby tails, playing hide-and-seek 
you may never understand any­stroying the balance or nature, reparations to the nature-deity O'Gill, may all the bunnies be with them in the bushes. On thing until you first read the which helps the birds and the mean to a household pet like blessed. 
---~--­
1 
I 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, April 12. 1990 
'Oil Can' wins first NL start; Braves, Giants split a pair 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Oil Can Boyd won his first National League start and Tim Raines hit a go-ahead sacrifice fly in the seventh inning as the Mon­treal Expos beat the St. Louis Cardinals 6-4 Wednesday and averted a three-game sweep. 
Boyd, who left Boston to sign with Montreal as a free agent on Dec. 7, gave up four hits and three runs in six innings, struck out four and walked two. He was only 3-2 last season, miss­ing four months with a blood clot in his right shoulder. 
Tim Burke, the fourth Mon­treal pitcher, got the final four outs for his first save and fin­ished the seven-hitter. 
Cardinals starter Jose DeLeon gave up three runs and eight hits in five innings, struck out six and walked two. 
Mike Fitzgerald's RBI single in the second gave Montreal the lead. Boyd retired the first 10 batters before Willie McGee singled with one out in the fourth and scored on Guer­rero's first home run. 
Giants 8-3, Braves 0-4 
Kevin Bass and Robby Thompson homered as San Francisco opened its National League title defense with a shutout. 
Rick Reuschel gave up three hits in 5 2-3 innings and Jeff Brantley and Atlee Hammaker finished with hitless relief as the Giants won their sixth straight opener. 
It was the first opening day doubleheader in the majors since 1982, when the Chicago White Sox and New York Yan­

kees began with one. The Braves won the second game 4-3. 
Reds 5, Astros 0 Jack Armstrong and Rick Mahler combined on a four-hit­ter as the Cincinnati Reds beat the Houston Astros 5-0 Wednesday night and swept a three-game series. 
Todd Benzinger's second-in­ning double gave the Reds the lead, and Eric Davis hit a two­run double in a three-run third inning. 
Armstrong retired 11 consec­utive batters following Rafael Ramirez's single in the second inning. Armstrong allowed three hits, struck out five and walked two, none after the sec­ond inning. 
Rangers 11, Blue Jays 5 
Pete lncaviglia homered and drove in five runs as the Texas Rangers built a 10-run lead in two innings Wednesday night and coasted past the Toronto Blue Jays 11-5. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day I rom 10 a.m~ to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 P~m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid~ The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
NOTICES  LOST: One brown leather jacket, Saturday night at Corby and ND  Over 5000 sqft in this contemporary luxury! On 5 Acres­ Pub Tuesday ion April!? in Haggar Parlor-from 9-11 Come  Congratulations Jeanne Schuster winner of the University Food  
Ave. It is a  security system,intercom,every  hear the summertime music! Men  Services 5K run!!!! We knew you  
TYPING term  "Mirage" brand. Monetary reward  feature you could want. Servants  of ND come enter the "He's Got  could do it!!!!!  
papers/reports/letter/resumes.  oHered. Call Steve at 283-3591.  quarters with private entrance.  Legs" contest and win 4 dinners at  
Pick up & delivery available. 277­ Redfield Rd Near State Line.  Hacienda for 1st prize! See you at  BRUCE MARTZ  
5134 Cathy. WORDPROCESSING  WANTED  PATTirS  Call Leona Proud 616-695-6933 for info. ERA Day.  the Beach Party!! Dear Keenan guys,  Have a  IS THE STUDY CHUBBLES  
272-1837  NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE  UOURMET BURGERS A ICE CREAM  wonderful Easter break, we hope  Kath,  
any weekend-ext 1938  DO YOURSELF A FLAVOH JMijl(i,r....... ~.tl....,.,_  Brown sofa-bed for sale. Excellent condition. Like brand new. You  the easter bunny is good to you. We heard that Barnie is making his  Thanks for a "Wonderful Tonight" weekend!  
$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! PANDORA'S BOOKS  !)inner for 2----------­ make the offer--we'll consider it PLUS--natural bunk-style loft.  debut as UN D's mascot easter bunny!!!!!!! See you at the Club on  See you in San Diego Keep the faith!  
Corner of ND ave and Howard  One roommate needed for the  $899 ";_'::'  Great condition--easy to  monday!!!!  Happy Birthday  
233-2342  summer.  House is located  across  ,.  assemble.  Used only 1 year.  Katie & Molly  Love,  
the street from campus $140.00  P1c.k •nv rwo Gourme( Snadwichc.s. rwo Garden SalaM, p:u~o your c.hoiu ci  $75.00 or best offer.  George  
plus u~ilities.  Call 288-8260.  French Frica or Onion Rm1a ilnd 2  Call277-9281 anytime.  Leave  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL  WANTED:  M.n,.c;.. rn~­expiration date 4/22  message.  Thorn, You should told us earlier that you  GOING TO DUKE? ROOMMATE NEEDED.  
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. \ LOST/FOUND I LOST: At the Senior Formal, my  Ride to D.C. Area for Easter Break. Will share expenses and driving. Lv. 4/11 or 4/12 back by 4/17.  Sundae---------­99~ Buy any 11u~ 1undile and rWin 1 1ec.ond one ci d-Ie aame 1i1e fcx 99.­expiration date 4/22  HEY!! ONE-WAY FLIGHT TO SEATILE !I-CHEAP!! leaves May 12'th. CALL JOE x 3489 ! TICKETS  like to scuba dive!!!!l We know this greater little place on the banks of the mighty St. Joe, if not our tub is huge. Remember, its not to late to change your hobbies for the junior dog book.  Handicapped law student-­NO class of '88--/ooking for a person to assist him one hour per day in exchange for living expenses. Please call Adam Milani at (919) 684-5982.  
date lost his Notre Dame  Alex X1580  
monogram ring. If you found a men's ring anywhere, please call Kristen at #2670. The ring is very valuable.  NEED TO GET A LOT OF MONEY  SUMMER RENTAL.Near campus.Furnished.272-6306  need grad tix! will pay big $ call 277-8692  hiag HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUMMER? Jet there from  BROWN LEATHER JACKET: I lost my "Mirage" jacket on Saturday night at ND Ave and  
FOUND-To the person who inquired about his St. Joe's sweatshirt. Please call back again and leave your name. Call Dave at 1560. FOUND-a set of keys by Stepan Courts on Thursday 4/5. Keys are held together by a piece of string. Call Pat at x1560  IN A SAFE AND LEGAL WAY? Sell me your old baseball cards ... call Jerry at x1128. Bridget McGuire's is looking for a few good women & men! Apply in person betw 3&4 W-Th-F Bar&Maintenance help. Become a working part of a Notre Dame tradition/  SUBLEASING FURNISHED TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER. CALL TOM 273­0302. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153. NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD SAFE AREA I MILE NORTH OF ND 2773097  Attention please. I need two grad tix bad honest, I am willing to pay big bucks for them. Please call Greg at 3114 .............  Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for no more than $229, or from the East Coast for no more than $160 with AIRHITCH (R) (as reported in NY Times. Let's Go! & Consumer Reports.) For info: AIRHITCH (R} 212-864-2000. SENIORS Can you alford to lose $1 ,000? Take advantage of your student discount on an IBM PS/2 BEFORE  Corby (SCANTS'). If you have it, please call me-lt's of great sentimental value. Reward/! Call Steve@3591 Days Fans! Thanks for the scripts, but I am extending the due date to the Fri. after break to give some people more time. -Molly Jason, 439 Farley  
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NDH. REWARD. SEAN 2073  FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED!! TO SHARE 2BDRM APT FOR NEXT YEAR (AND SUMMER IF POSSIBLE) FOR MORE INFO  Summer Sublet Turtle Creek Apt. Upstairs 2bdrm 277-9470 Tom or Dave  NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ CALL #2059-JOHN  you graduate and spring into savings. JUST DO IT! Call an IBM student rep today!  See the Boathouse Blues Band Friday the 13th It's spooky, It's scary--­It's the ultimate deep-sea  
CALL LINDA@ 259-6841 /!!!!1  237-3680, -3790, -3794  Blues EXTRAVAGANZA-&  
LOST: Black and gold Seiko dress watch on the second floor of the library. Please call Pat x2479 or give to library security at the front desk.  Needed: Ride home to San Diego after finals (May 11 ). Will help with expenses and driving. Call x1420 FOR RENT  CONDO, 2 BEDROOM, 2 BATH, VERY CLEAN, POOL, PATIO, LARGE CLOSETS. 232-3972. 2 HOUSES, REDUCED RENT. WASHERS & DRYERS, BURGLAR  I HAVE TWO GRADUATION TICKETS TO SELL. CALL BRUCE AT X1004 Need 2 GRADuation tix! Will pay $$.Call Tom-1694.  WANTED: Ride to D.C. Area for Easter Break. Will share expenses and driving. Lv. 4/11 or 4/12 back by 4/17.  It's Friday at CLUB 23 CLUB23 Dear Gina and Kelly, Remember-those who can't do ...TEACH!  
Lost: 3 rings. including SMC Class ring. If found, please call284­5122. Reward altered and no questions.  STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? Sublet a townhouse at Turtle Creek...(2 bedrm.,t 1/2bathrm,kitchen, etc.)  ALARMS, FULLY FURNISHED, WILL RENT TO GROUP OR INDIVIDUALS. CONTACT CHUCK GLORE 232-1776.  Eccentric millionaire seeking new heir wants GRAD TIX. Harry x2263. PERSONALS  Alex Xt580 ATIENTION!!!  Tim, you're ok. Six months is a pretty long time-I think that in itself merits lower car insurance rates. Don't you? Your pal, Christine!  
LOST--A black briefcase by American Tourister. No contents, lost in the lobby of Hurley Business Hall monday night, 4/2190. My only bag, gift from mom. Please call Ted at x3276. No questions.  Call Amy at x2702 Furn. 2 & 4 bedrm. houses. Safe. Washer/dryer. Sand V-ball court. Bruce: 288-5653/234­3831.  FOR SALE '86 Olds. Calais, loaded, great car. $5600 negotiable. call Roger x1378 "Realistic" AM/FM stereo receiver.  CARING, CHILDLESS COUPLE DESPERATELY WISHES TO SHARE OUR LIFE, HOME AND MUCH LOVE WITH YOUR WHITE NEWBORN. LET US HELP EACH OTHER REALIZE OUR DREAMS.  ESTABLISHED BAND IS LOOKING FOR A: LEAD GUITARIST for next year. Must have own equipment. CALL JOHN x 1 082  The One and Only Charity Ball THE GROOVE  
Lost at Senior Formal in Chicago: multicolored rhinestone bracelet of  STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?? SUBLET A TURTLE CREEK  60 watts per channel. Great condition but MUST SELL! $175  EXPENSES PAID. PLEASE CALL KATHY AND LARRY COLLECT AT  Fri. April20  
great sentimental value. Probably fell oH in the Grand Ballroom.Reward to finder. Call Amy@ 1265.  APARTMENT!! BEAUTIFUL, PICTURESQUE, AND MORE ... CALL KELLY AT 4985 OR JULIE AT 287-9378 NOW!!  or b.o. Call 271-5686. 1979 MGB convertible, British Racing Green, AM/FM radio,  (201) 635-1307. STUDENT PAINTERS --NOW HIRING COLLEGE  00 WHEN YOU NEED COPIES 00 THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE IS OPEN LATE & WEEKENDS  Tickets at LaFortune Info. Desk or  
I lost my Canon CAMERA at the Senior Formal dance. Please call  NEW G.A. RENTAL -6 BR, LORY, MICRO, CLEAN & FURNISHED, 1-1/2 BATHS. 233-9947  excellent condition, 54,000 miles, $4,300. Call 277-6551. LAW/MED/GRAD SCHOOL IN ST.  STUDENTS FOR SUMMER EMPLOY. CALL NOW FOR INTERVIEW! 1-800-543-3792  Congratulations to the quint +1, runners up in the AnTostal mud volleyball tournament!!!!/!!  283-BAND  
Kay at277-8813 if you found one.  A safe 3-4 bedroom house located across the street from campas.  LOUIS? Own for What it Costs to Rent. Condo in Historic Bldg For Sale. 10 mins. to Wash. U & SLU  Who's the SEXIEST MAN ON CAMPUS?  Dear Katie, Jeanne, Lisa, Debbie, &Molly,  
LOST: If you or your date picked up the wrong camera at SENIOR FORMAL by accident on SAT.  Washer/Dryer, garage and 2 full baths. ph. 234-7650.  Med Ctrs & Main Campuses. Spacious Rehab w/Appliances & More. Call 271-8242.  ······••t99t••······  Have a great Easter Break!!!! My plane gets in at 10:30 on Monday night. Be there and its oH to the  CHARITY BALL decorations  
night, please call really important!  #1765. It's  NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable furn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave.,  1978 VW HATCHBACK RABBIT. EXCELLENT CONDITION. AC.  The Junior Class Scrapbooks are almost ready and they are only $8.  bar. Don't be late!/!! Love, The Easter Bunny  committee needs help. If interested please call 284­ 
If the film you develop is not yours, please call!  eHiciency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., references.  61,000 MILES. 272-1134.  Don't miss out!  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  4016.  
Found (well actually stepped on) on dance floor at Senior Formal: a  616-483-9572. GRADUATION HOUSING FOR 4­5 PEOPLE. 708-355-4848.  1981 CHEVY MALIBU. EXCELLENT CONDITION. 87,000 MILES. $1995. 272-8333.  START YOUR NEW CAREER  HEY MARK, I THOUGHT YOU DIDN'T READ THE PERSONALS !!!!! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Happy Birthday Cris Ortiz!!!!! Go Nuts!!!!!  
bracelet...describe it & it's yours...call TK at 3714.  SUMMER SUBLET CHEAP  MICHIGAN WATERFRONT  WITH A NEW CAR! We have special financing for  DIANE is for oodles of fun and  
Walk to campus, pool  5 Acres-2500 sqft. home, 4  employed graduates.  laughs and memories.  
etc., 2bdrms, call 277-7496  ponds,barn,On Dowagiac River Front Ni/es-M-51 N.  Call: Gary Erb At: Gates Toyota  ADOPTION. We are a childless,  
237-4999  educated, secure, happily married,  Lost: One duck. 1982 Mallard. Like  
LOST: Set of 4 keys on a Delco Electronics key ring sometime Friday 4/6. If found, please call Vinny x2015.  4 OR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE AVAILABLE 1990-91 SCHOOL YEAR. FURNISHED, WID. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE  St. Joseph River Front-2700 SqFt brick home,4-1/2 acres,225 ft. on River. N.Red Bud-Buchanan.  Trip, Tripeny. Trip, Tripeny. Trip, Trip, Tripeny.  white Christian couple. Give your baby a fantastic future. Let us adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­974-8227.  new . Only been south three (3) times. If found, call CHARITY CARNIVAL.  
LOST: Blue ND wallet w/my entire life in it-Sat. night in Carroll. Please return-no ?'s asked. X4961  RENT. 277-0959. 3 BDRM. HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS. $550/MO. $400 DEPOSIT. 232­3616.  UN/QUE-4500 SqFt on 17 acres,2 barns­pasture,fenced,pond,inground pool, indoor hot tub room! A luxury home! Niles.  Good luck will rub oH when Rene shakes hands with you. Happy Retirement Rene!  I need a ride to DC for Easter. Can leave Wed or Thur and return Sun or Mon. Will share expenses. Diana 4003  From the people who brought you Noises Off, the Bonehead Bowl, and Lent: Char ity Carnival  

Thursday, April 12, 1990 Scoreboard page 11 
NBA STANDINGS NHL PLAYOFFS SPORTS CALENDAR TRANSACTIONS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE N.Y. Rangers 2 3 1-6 Thursday, Aprtl12 BASEBALL Atlantic Division N.Y. Islanders 1 0 0-1 Softball at Detroit (2) National League 
w L A::t (Jj Streak First Period-1, N.Y. Rangers, Mullen 1 Baseball vs. PURDUE. Coveleski Stadium, 7 p.m MONTREAL EXPOS-Placed Brett Gideon. x-Philadelphia 49 28 .636 Lost t (Ogrodnick, Kisio), :41 (pp). 2, N.Y. Rangers, pitcher, on the 15-day dtsabled list. Recalled R1ch x-Boston 47 29 .618 t t/2 won4 Turcotte 1 (K.King, Ruff), 10:53. 3, N.Y. Islanders, Friday, Aprll13 Thompson. pitcher. from Indianapolis ol the x-New York 43 33 .566 51/2 Lost 2 Flatley 2 (Volek, McBean), 12:25 (pp). Penallies­Men's tennis at MCC Championships American Association. Washington 29 47 .382 19 1/2 Lost 2 Lauer. NYI (tripping), :22; Mallette, NYR (roughing), Women's tennis vs, NORTHWESTERN HORSE RACING Mlam1 t7 59 .224 31 t/2 Lost 5 5:46; Greschner. NYR (delay ol game), 6:48; Lacrosse at Cornell LOUISIANA STATE RACING COMMIS-SION­New Jersey t 7 60 .221 32 Lost 2 Janssens, NYR (cross-checking), 12:13; Nicholls, Banned Sylvester Carmouche, jockey, lrom racing Central Division NYR (slashing), 12:53; Mallelle, NYR (roughing), Saturday, Aprll14 in Louisiana for t 0 years tor illegally rejoining a x-Detron 56 21 .727 Won2 12:53; Lauer. NYI (slashing), 12:53; Diduck, NYI Men's tennis at MCC Championships log-shrouded race at Delta Downs near the end ol x-Ch1cago 51 23 .689 3 t/2 Won 7 (roughing), 12:53; Ruff, NYR (hooking), 13:33; Baseball at Xavier (2) the race. Milwaukee 41 36 .532 15 Lost t Nylund, NYI (holding), 18:05. Outdoor track at Stanford Invitational SPEEDSKATING Indiana 39 37 .513 16 1/2 Won3 Second Period-4, N.Y. Rangers, Wilson t Outdoor track at Purdue Invitational U.S. INTERNATIONAL SPEED-SKATING Atlanta 37 40 .481 19 Won2 (Mallette. Patrick), 10:59 (pp). 5, N.Y. Rangers, Women's golf at Lady Buckeye Spring Invitational ASSOCIATION-Eiected George Steinbrenner to Cleveland 36 39 .480 19 Wont Molter t (Nicholls), 12:12. 6, N.Y. Rangers, serve as on the President's Advisory Board ol the Orlando 17 59 .224 38 1/2 Lost tO Ogrodnick 3 (Mullen), 13:31. Penalties-Fitzgerald, Sunday, Aprll15 USISA. WESTERN CONFERENCE NYI (elbowing), 4:05; Nicholls. NYR Baseball at Xavier (2) COLLEGE Midwest Division (unsportsmanlike conduct), 7:33; D.King, NYI Women's goll at Lady Buckeye Spring Invitational MARIST-Named Kim Morison assistant to the 
w L A::t (Jj Streak (unsportsmanlike conduct), 7:33; Crossman. NYI athletic director. x-Utah 52 23 .693 Wont (slashing), 9:27. MILLSAPS-Named John Busby Stroud men's
NBA BOXES 

x-San Antonio 50 26 .658 2 112 Wont Third Period-?, N.Y. Rangers. Kisio 1, 16:31 head basketball coach. Dallas 42 34 .553 10 t/2 Lost 3 (sh). Penalties-Turcotte, NYR (slashing), 3:50; NORTH CAROLINA-WILMINGTON-Announced 
NEW JERSEY (93)

Denver 39 37 .513 13 1/2 Wont Ruff. NYR (tripping), 5:47; Baumgartner. NYI (high­the retirement ol Bill Brooks. director ol athletics.
Morris 6-15 7-11 19, Haley 5-10 7-10 17, Dudley

Houston 37 38 .493 15 Won2 sticking), 9:50; K.King, NYR (hooking), 15:24; elfective March t 5, t 991. 
2-10 1·2 5, Short 8·18 3-319, Conner 4-10 3-311,

Mtnnesota 21 54 .280 31 Lost2 Molter. NYR (roughing), 19:44; Bergevin, NYI OKLAHOMA STATE-Named Eddie Sutton 
Shacklelord 4-10 2-2 10. Hopson t-7 0-0 2, Myers

Charlotte 18 58 .237 34 t/2 Lost t (roughing), 19:44; Kerr. NYI (roughing), 19:53. men's head basketball coach. 
4-8 2-3 10. Totals 34-88 25-34 93. 

Pacfflc Division Shots on goai-N.Y. Rangers 13-10-3--26. N.Y. PACIFIC-Named Quincey Noble head baseball x-LA Lakers 58 17 .773 Won7 Islanders 11· 7-5--23. coach.
DETROIT (98) Rodman 3-4 1-2 7. Edwards 2·10 0-0 4.

x-Portland • 54 22 .711 4 112 Won3 Power-play Opportunities-N.Y. Rangers 2 ol6; SOUTHERN METHODIST-Announced the res­
Laimbeer 3-9 6-6 13. Johnson 5-t t 4-4 14.

x·Phoemx 51 25 .671 7 112 Won2 N.Y. Islanders t of 7. ignation of Doug Single, athletic director Named 
Thomas 9-17 3-4 21, Salley 1-1 5-6 7, Dumars 4­

Seattle 37 39 .487 21 t/2 Lost3 Goalies-N.Y. Rangers. Vanbiesbrouck, 1·1 (23 Forrest Gregg athletic director. 
10 2-2 10, Aguirre 10-13 1-2 22.Totals 37-75 22·26 

Golden State 35 41 .461 23 t/2 Lost2 shots-22 saves). N.Y. Islanders, Healy, 1·1 (20-16), TEXAS-Announced the resignation ol John 
98.

LA Clippers 30 47 .390 29 Wont Fitzpatrick (12:12 2nd period, 6·4). Miller, women's assistant track coach, so he may
3-Point goals-New Jersey 0-6 (Hopson 0-t.

Sacramento 23 54 .299 36 Lost t take the same position w1th Notre Dame. x-clinched playoff berth Boston 0 2 4-6 
Short 0-2, Morris 0-3), Detroit 2-4 (Aguirre 1-1, Laimbeer 1·2, Thomas 0·1). Fouled out-Dudley.

Tuesday'a Games Thursday's Games Hartford I 4 0-5 
BASKETBALL
Rebounds-New Jersey 52 (Oudley 11 ). Detroit 53 Boston t t 2, New Jersey 96 Miam1 at Boston. 7:30p.m. First Period-1. Hartford. Evason 2, 1:18. 

(Laimbeer 13). Assists-New Jersey 16 (Short,Atlanta t 23. Philadelphia t t t Minnesota at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Penallies-Dineen, Har (boarding), t t :51; Neely, Conner 7), Detroit 24 (Thomas 8). Total louis­Eddie Sulton's Cereer Record Houston tt 5, Charlotte It2 Cleveland at Washington, 7:30 p.m. 8os (high-sticking), 12:15; Galley, 8os New Jersey 27, Detroit 23. Technical-Edwards By The Associated Prass Milwaukee 130, Orlando 127 Indiana at New York, 8 p.m. (unsportsmanlike conduct), 15:51; Evason, Har A-21.454. w L Pet.

Detroit t 08. New York 98 Los Angeles Lakers at Utah. B p.m. (unsportsmanlike conduct). 15:51; Beers. 8os 1970 Creighton 15 10 600Portland t 06. Minnesota 94 Charlene at Houston. 8:30p.m. (roughing), 16:13; Krygier. Har (roughing), 16:13; 1971 Creighton 14 11 .560
Indiana 107, Washington 105 Los Angeles Clippers at San Antonio. 8:30p.m. B.Sweeney, major (fighling), 16:13; Jennings. Har, 1972 Creighton 15 It .577
Utah 114, Seattle 102 Phoenix at Sacramento. t 0 p.m. major (lighling), 16:13; Burridge, 8os (charging), 1973 Creighton 15 It 577Denver 121. Sacramento 113 Denver at Seattle. tO p.m. 19:47; Ladouceur. Har (roughing), 19:47. 
1974 Creighton 23 7 .767
Los Angeles Clippers 98, Dallas 90 Dallas at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Second Period-2, Hartford, Evason 2, 1:18. 3, CLEVELAND (86) t 975 Arl<ansas 17 9 .654
San Antonio t 32, Golden State t 22 Friday's Games Basion, Christian 2 (Carter, Janney), 4:35. 4, Bennett 5-7 7-8 17, Williams 6-15 3-3 15, 1976 Arkansas 19 9 .679
Wednesday's Games Atlanta at Detroit, 8 p.m. Hartford, Dineen 2 (Babych, Andersson), 7:02. 5, Daugherty 6-14 5-8 17, Price 3-7 0-0 7. Ehlo 3-8 0-1977 Arkansas 26 2 929Late Game Not Included Orlando at Minnesota. 8 p.m. Hartford, Corriveau t (Hull, Babych), 8:29. 6, 0 7, Brown t -4 2-2 4, Kerr 3-5 0-0 6, Rollins 0-0 0-0 1978 Arkansas 32 4 
.889

Atlanta t 06, Milwaukee 94 Milwaukee at Chicago. 8:30 p.m. Boston, Wesley 1 (Carpenter. Douris), t 0:24. 7, 0, Chievous 3-5 1·4 7, Morton 0-2 3-6 3. Mokeski t 979 Arl<ansas 25 5 .833
Detroit 98. New Jersey 93 Golden State at Los Angeles Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Hartford, Francis 1, 16:15. Penal!ies-Poulin, Bos 1·4 1·2 3. Totals 31-71 22-33 86. 1980 Arkansas 21 8 .724
Cleveland at Ch1cago. (n) Dallas at Portland. 10:30 p.m. (roughing), 8:19; Evason. Har (roughing), 8:19. 
CHICAGO (107) 1981 Arkansas 24 B .750
Third Period-6, Boston, Poulin 2 (Wesley), 1:28. 
Pippen 7-13 0-0 15, Grant 0-2 0-0 0, Cartwright 1982 Arkansas 23 6 .793
9, Boston. Beers t (Janney, Neely), 7:00. 10, 
7-10 1-t 15, Paxson 7-11 0·0 15, Jordan 9·15 3·4 1983 Arkansas 26 4 .867
Boston, Chrislian 3 (Poulin. Burridge), 8:10. 11,
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 22, Lett 1-3 0-0 2, King 5-t 0 0-0 t 0. Armstrong 6-8 1984 Arkansas 25 7 .781
Boston. Poulin 3 (Burridge, Neely), 18:16. 
2-2 14, Davis 3·6 0-0 6, Perdue 2·2 0-0 4, Nealy 0· 1985 Arkansas 22 13 629Penallies-None. 
0 4-4 4. Totals 47-BO 10-11 107. 1986 Kentucky 32 4 .889
Shots on goal-Boston 7-11-11-29. Hartford 
1 0 Legs, 9 Hands over 5 guys Who Lick Fat 3-Point goals--Cleveland 2· 7 (Ehlo 1·3, Price 1· 1987 Kentucky 18 11 .621
10·12-7-29. 
Shirley's Armpit by 2 4), Chicago 3-8 (Pippen 1-1, Paxson 1-3, Jordan I· 1988 Kentucky 25 5 .833
Resuns lor Wednesday, April 11 Power-play Opportunilies-Boston 0 of 1; 
Senior Ba• over Team BAMF by 20 Ross Twins Fan Club over Super and the Webs 4). Fouled out-None. Rebounds--Cleveland 43 1989 Kentucky 13 19 406
Hartford 0 ol 1. 
(Daugherty 7). Chicago 42 (King 9). Assists­Creighton Totals 82
Sweatbox over Maternal Instincts by 9 by 5 Goalies-Basion, Lemelin (22 shots-17 saves), 50 621 
4 EE's and a Geek Business MaJor over Pole by Cleveland 22 (Williams 5), Chicago 29 (Armstrong Arl<ansas Totals 260 75 .776
Screaming Uglys over The ER We're Lovers Moog, 1-1 (0:00 third, 7-7). Hartford. Sidorkiewicz. 
14 9). Total fouls-Cleveland 15, Chicago 26. Kentucky Totals 88 39 698
Not Basketball Players by 2 2-2 (29-23). Flounder. the Whaler and 3 Other Names lor Pittsburgh Is Weak over The Malcontents by 1 t Technicals-Prcie 2 (ejected). A-18.139. Career Totals 430 164 .724 
Phil Shertdan over Five Gtrls Without a Name Who 
Bacchus and the Lobotom•es over 5 MBAs Who Just Want To Play by tO Date Small-Breasted Women by 10 At Least We Have Jobs over Bush's Five Points Sky By Four and the Butcher over Controversy 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
ol L1ght by 10 Strikes by 14 The Mordac1ous Meatuses over Tequila D1ning Hall Meatloal over Their Satanic Mock•ngbtrd by t 3 MaJesties by torte1t Wednesday's Major League Llnescores NATIONAL LEAGUE The Lode Warriors over Moe. Larry. Digger and Fighting Irish II over My Mother Can't Wrestle AMERICAN LEAGUE Pittsburgh 000 000 000-0 6 o Two Other Stooges by 1 t But You Should See Her Box by 13 Detroit ooo 00 t 100-2 7 0 Naw York 200 001 OOx-3 6 o 5 good 6th Men over Lambadeers: The Jamere Jackson. Phil Sheridan and Three Boston 000 010 100-3 t 2 1 Smiley, Patterson (6). Roesler (6), Power (8) and Pnnce; Viola, Franco (8) Forbidden Team by tO Other Guys Who Won't Score this Year over The (10 innings) and Lyons. W-Viola, t-0. L-Smiley, 0-1. Sv-Franco (1). HAs-New York, Art and Ted's Excellent Adventure over Broken Commissioner Likes To Beat Girls by 2 Robinson, Nunez (7), Gibson (7). Lugo (8), Gleaton (9) and Nokes, Heath Jeffertes (I), McReynolds (I). Down Lovers Lament by 2 Buckhead Lawn and Racquet Club over Air (7); Dopson, Lamp (6). Smith (9), Harris (10) and Pena. W-Harris, t-0. L­Apocalyps1e and the Four Horsemen over 5 Ashby and His Seamen by 14 Gieaton, 0-1. HR-Boston. Evans (1). Lew1s Girls With Attitude Problems by lorte1t Billy's First Million over High Entropy by 8 Montreal 010 020 120-6 11 0 1 sl Round Miracle over Wtllord Brimley's Tatoos Beer. Broads, Bookstore: 2 Good Reasons to go Minnesota 300 000 000-3 5 St. Louis 000 201 00 t --4 7 I by 21 to Notre Dame over 4 Sprockets and Their Monkey Oakland 000 000 000-0 7 0 Boyd, Frey (7), Hall (B), Burke (B) and Fitzgerald, Santoven•a (8); DeLeon, by 7 Tapani, Wayne (7), Leach (7), Aguilera (9) and Ortiz; Moore, Norris (B) and Mathews (6), Carpenter (8), DIPino (8). Hilton (8) and Zelle W-Boyd, 1-0. Steinbach. W-Tapani, 1-0. L-Moore, 0-1. Sv-Aguilera (1). HR­L-Mathews. 0-t. Sv-Burke (1). HA-St. Louis. Guerrero (1). Minnesota. Hrbek (1). 
Texas 550 000 010-11 t 1 0 Toronto 004 000 100-5 8 0 
Cincinnati 013 100 000-5 1 0 0 Houston 000 000 000-0 4 2
KBrown. Jeffcoat (7) and Kreuter. Petralli (8); Cerutti, Kilgus (I), Wills (5), Blatr (7), Henke (9) and Myers. W-K.Brown, t-0. L-Cerutti, 0-1. Sv­Armstrong, Mahler (7) and Oliver; Portugal, Clancy (4), Andersen (7), 
Hernandez (9). Agosto (9) and Biggio. W-Armstrong. t-0. L-Portugal, 0-t.
Jeffcoat (1). HAs-Texas. Buechele (1), lncaviglia (1). Toronto, Bell (1), Felix 
Sv-Mahler (I).

(1). 

Baltimore 100 000 000-1 5 0 
San Fran 010 000 020-3 8 3 Kansas City 000 020 OOx-2 8 0 Atlanta 030 000 t Ox--4 5 1 Ballard. Hickey (5). Bautista (7) and Tettleton; Gubicza, Crawford (6), 
Swan. O'Neal (3), Gunderson (7). Quisenberry (7) and Kennedy. Bathe (8);McWilliams (7), Montgomery (7), M.Davis (9) and Boone. W-Gubicza. 1-0. 
P.Smith, Soever (6), Henry (8), Stanton (8) and J.Dav1s. W-P.Smith, 1-0. L­L-Ballard. 0·1. Sv-M.Davis (1). Swan. 0-t. Sv-5tan1on (1). 
TOWNHOUSES 
FOR RENT 
2,3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer &Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 
232-8256 
Juniors: Don't settle for less than the best on your resume. Your prospective employers won't. 
Whether you are searching for a summer internship or for permanent employment, it is important to make a strong first impression. 
We can help you do that. With our state-of-the-art Linotronic 200P printer, we can offer output that is four times clearer than that of a Laser Writer. We also offer a selection ofover thirty typestyles for you to choose from. 
Let us help ease the frustrations of beginning the crucial job search. We can enter your information in our Macintosh system, print it on quality paper with a matching envelope and save it on disk for quick and easy updates. 
Come up to our offices on the 3rd floor ofLaFortune Student Center, between 3pm and Spm, and let us show you what we can do. Or call us at 239-7471. 
Start your job search on the right foot with the Observer Typesetting Service. 
observer typesetting 
314 LaFortune Student Center • Phone 239-7471 


1153 N. Dearborn St._jChicago, IL 60610 

.....__ 312-951-0515 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, April 12, 1990 
,­
Pitchers lead softball against MCC 
' 
ByRICHKURZ Sports Writer 

There's a locomotive leaving Notre Dame on a full head of steam, and its looking to pick up even more speed. The women's softball team has won five straight games going into yesterday's meeting with DePaul, and is looking to continue that streak going into next week's Midwestern Colle­giate Conference Tournament. 
After starting the season 1-6, the team started rolling. They won six in a row, and 15 out of 20 games since that less than spectacular start. 
Strong pitching has led the Irish in their resurgence. "We have four solid pitchers," said co-captain Kathy Vernetti. "We play a lot of games in a short period of time, and the key to success is depth in pitching." 
So far the gem of the staff has been freshman Staci Alford, 8-5 with a 1.10 EHA, but she's been on a tear lately. Last week she pitched 23 of 30 innings and compiled four wins against one loss. That one loss just happened to be the first no-hitter in Irish softball his­tory, which was spoiled by three unearned runs. In those 30 innings, Alford allowed only 10 hits and one walk, retiring 26 batters on strikeouts and allowing no earned runs. 
There is more than just Al­ford on this staff, however. Sophomore Missy Linn has put up some pretty good numbers on her own, allowing one run in her last two games, the latter a five-hit performance in a 7-1 defeat of Valparaiso. Two freshman, Erinn Kelly and Ronny Alvarez, round out the deep staff. 
Hitters occasionally put the ball in play against even the best pitchers, so it helps to have a solid defense to back up the pitcher. and the Irish have one. Eight of the last 11 games were decided by two runs or less, so the team with a better defense has a distinct advan­tage. "We're winning close games because of our pitching and our defense," said Irish coach Brian Boulac. 
Three series this weekend are 
against MCC foes. The Irish travel to Detroit today, looking to sweep the season series. Earlier this year the Irish took a doubleheader from defending MCC champs Detroit, winning both games 1-0. 
"1-0 is not a dominant score by any means. We have to play with dedication to beat them," he said. 
The Irish resume their season on Monday at Loyola. Although 
. Loyola is in last place in the MCC, the Irish are not looking past them. "No matter how unequal games appear on pa­per, funny things can happen, especially in softball," said Vernetti. "So we play hard for every single run." "Loyola is an MCC opponent. We need to play hard against them," Boulac said. The Irish then take a break from their conference schedule to play St. Joseph's on Tuesday before taking on Dayton in a makeup game. It's important to keep the momentum with the MCC Tournament approaching next weekend. Dayton should provide the Irish with a stiff test of just how far the team has come, as Dayton took two 

Men place 3rd at lntercollegiates 
Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame men's golf team led by nine strokes after the first round of the Indi­anapolis Intercollegiates last weekend, but a faulty short game eventually allowed Ball State to take first place in the two-day event as the Irish fin­ished third. 
Senior co-captain Pat Mohan, who finished second in this (162) rounded out the Irish scorecard. 
Although the third place fin­ish was the best Irish showing this spring, Assistant Coach Joe Thomas was not satisfied with the team's performance. 
"During the first round, I felt we had a good attitude," Thomas said. "We were back playing teams in our own league, with basically the same talent, and we remained very competitive. 
"Things just fell apart in the second ro11nd. and it came to a point where we just collapsed on the last six holes. We were hitting into a strong wind, which could be a little intimi­dating, but for the most part it was our short game that failed." 
The Irish will take a break for the Easter holiday and re­turn to action in the Akron In­vitational on April 20-22. 

same tournament last year, tied •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
his career-low round by shoot­ing a 71 in the first round on Saturday. Mohan tailed off a bit on the second day of the tourney, tallying a 77 for a sixth place finish overall in the tournament. 
Sophomore co-captain Mike O'Connell was right behind Mo­han as he shot a 150 for 36 holes in the tournament to fin­ish in ninth place. Mike Crisanti (151), Chris Dayton (154), Joe Dennen (155) and Paul Nolta 
Denver,Tampa set for next MLBteams? 
DENVER (AP) -A Colorado senator says he has it on "very good authority" that Denver and the Tampa-St. Petersburg area of Florida will be awarded National League expansion franchises by the end of the year. 
But Democratic Sen. Tim Wirth, chairman of the Senate Task Force on the Expansion of Major League Baseball, de­clined to reveal his source for the information, the Rocky Mountain News reported Wednesday. 
Major League Baseball has promised an announcement on a timetable for expansion within 90 days after a settle­ment was reached with the players. Wirth said an an­nouncement might be made well before the June 19 deadline. 
National League president 
Bill White told the Tampa Tri­
bune Wednesday that the 
timetable study is complete. 

"We have 13 cities and two 
corridors throughout the coun­
try that we feel should have an 
opportunity to come in and 
present their cases for major 
league teams," White said. Cor­
ridors are areas that have a 
good chance in to explode in 
population in the future. 


Summer 
TORAGE 
RESERVATION 
CALL Nowl 683-19591 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 2Vz MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
ATTENTION; Grad Students Professors Employees 

*furnished and unfurnished suites 
•nexlble 
leases 

•washer 
& dryer each apt. 

•locked 
intercom entrances 

•spacious 
floor plans w/country kitchens 


2C)()Q Su!M '"""'* Non 
Sourh &«-ntt lnc'IM'"" .&622& 

219. 277. 3731 ~ 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The NO softball team dropped a doubleheader to DePaul Wednesday 6-1 and 3-2. The Irish are now 16-13 on the season, DePaul is 19-10. 
Anyone interested in Ultimate Frisbee-An Tostal '90 should contact Julie at 284-4260. Cost is $7 per team. Lim­ited spaces are available so call now to register. 
Irish spirit hats will be given out to the first 500 fans at Thursday's Notre Dame baseball game versus Purdue. Weather permitting, game time is 7 p.m. at Coveleski Sta­dium. 
Non-varsity Irish Spring run is scheduled for Sat.. April 21st. Sign-up at NVA. Cost is $4, but you get a dollar back if you wear green. 
NVA events after break include: bike tour on Sun., April 22nd; Bike clinic on Wed., April 18th; the Irish Spring Run on April 21st; team tennis tourney April 21st and a kayak race April 17th. 
Bookstore Basketball needs referees. Pay is $8 per game. Call Jeff at 1505 for more information. 
Andrea Alexander, a 5-10 forward at Brandywine High School in Niles, Mich., signed a national letter of intent Wednesday to play basketball at Notre Dame. Alexander av­eraged 13.9 points and 9.6 rebounds per game during her senior season. 
ASK ABOUT OUR 
1=1~1-1-1-1-r~'~=;=r=l=i=IJ COLLEG~, 
GRADUATE FINANCE PLAN 
Jordan's Auto Mall 
YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 609 E. Jefferson
• 

-II
YOU'VE EARNED IT. . Mishawaka 
(219) 259-1981 

You're In Good Company... 
Walt Whionan, Poet 

P.l. Tchaikovsky, Composer Keith Haring, Artist Lily Tomlin, Entertainer Emily Dickenson, Author Aristotle, Philosopher Cary Grant, Actor Lawrence of Arabia, Military Genius Perry Ellis, Designer Willa Cather, Author Leonard.Bemstein, Conductor Philip Johnson, Architect Hennan Melville, Author Tennessee Williams, Playwright Eleanor Roosevelt, First Lady David Hockney, Artist Leonardo da Vinci, Renaissance Man Calvin Klein, Designer James Dean, Actor Sebastian, Catholic Saint Paul Lynde, Entertainer Barney Frank, US Congressman 
Gertrude Stein, Author Alexander the Great, Military Genius Erasure, Musical Group Leo Tolstoy, Author Susan B. Anthony, Suffragette Sandra Bernhardt, Comedienne Michelangelo, Renaissance Man Andy Warhol, Artist Tony Curtis, Actor Socrates, Philosopher Julian ill, Pope Oscar Wilde, Playwright 

Thursday, April 12, 1990 The Observer page 13 
After hiatus, Irish are back to defend conference title 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
Well, tlw Notre Dame men's tennis tnam has had two weeks to mull over a disappointing loss to Wisconsin. And now the 18th-ranked Irish will dust off the racquets to host the MCC Championships beginning April 13-14. 
If one believes that the past is a reliable predietor of the fu­turn, Notre Damn looks to be in for an excellent weekend. Last year, a less talented Notre Dame squad captured the MCC Championship by taking all nine titles. This year's 18-4 squad would seem to be a sure bet to win back to back titles. 
"The layoff was very healthy for us," said !lead Coach Bob Bayliss. "We were pn~tty fried after the Wisconsin match, so the break carne at a good time. However, anytime you have a two week layoff you are going to be a little mentally rusty. That is why it is important for us to get out of the blocks quickly." 
The MCC Championships pro­vide thn setting for Notre Dame to affirm themselves as a re-
Beach (ooler 
Your tastebuds need relief from the summer sun. Cool off with the tasty tropical flavors of Colombo frozen yogurt. 

FROZEN YOGURT 
Yogi's Yogurt 17911 S.R. 23 
(across from Martin's) 

277-4337 
gional power. Four of the six Irish tennis players will attnmpt to defend their singles titles. Also, Notre Dame's No. 1 duo of Mike Wallace-Dave DiLucia will look to repeat as champi­ons. Since the Eck Tennis Pavil­ion will serve as the mecca for the tournament, Xavier, De­troit, Marquette, Evansville, and Butler and four other teams will travel to Notre Dame to try to attempt to steal the crown from the Irish. 
"In general, the field is pretty even after us," said Bayliss. "I hope that the MCC's serve as a springboard to the Michigan match on Tuesday in Ann Ar­bor. Also, we can get some ex­tra guys in the doubles compe­tition." 
Notre Dame's play is critical to continue their quest for the NCAA tournament. A slip at this juncture of the season will be a fatal blow to the fortunes of the Irish. 
"We are right in the thick of it," said Bayliss. "It is going to be important for us to beat Ohio State and Michigan. Last weekend, Wisconsin downed Ohio State and Indiana which helps our cause." 
Women's track moves outdoors 
The Women's track team has moved out­side for its outdoor season, but they may wish they were still running in the com­forts of Loftus Sports Center. Last weekend, the team traveled to 

Manchester, ln. for a MIKE KAMRADT 
meet against a number Club Corner of in-state schools in­cluding rival Saint Mary's, TaylorCollege, University of Indianapolis, Alma and DePauw. Other varsity teams that ran against the Irish were Goshen College, Indi­ana Wesleyan, St. Joseph, and Valparaiso. 
"The competition we faced was good for us," commented club president Diana Bradley. "There weren't any runners that were superior in any event (like the MCC Championships). But there were a few good people in every event." 
The Irish took third place, quite an impres­
sive finish considering they only took ten 
runners 
"We were very happy we finished as well as we did with only ten runners," said Bradley." Everyone who competed placed." 
The two top finishers for the Irish were 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
Bautch leads the Irish with 17 
steals in 22 attempts in barely 
one-third of a season. He's al­
most a sure bet to eclipse Pat 
Pesavento's all-time mark of 38 
in a single season. However, 
there's much more to Bautch's 
ability than sheer speed. 
"We (the team) try to lind a 
pattern," he said. "A pitcher 
might always look at third be­
fore he comes over. They just 
get in a groove and forget 
about the runner. Another 
thing I key on is first move­
ment, but it's also important to 
keep focused and stay relaxed." 
When he arrived on the Notre 
Dame campus in the fall of .1988, Bautch knew it would be tough to get some playing time. All-American Dan Peltier was in center, Ali-MCC performer James Sass was in right, and 
During the post few weelcs seuerol persons houe reported their personal property stolen from unloclced loclcers or public oreos in the Roclcne Memorial Building. 
Crime Stoppers wonts to lcnow who is tolcing this property. Also Crime Stoppers reminds the community to lceep loclcers loclced ond not to leoue uoluobles unottended--euen for o moment. 
If you houe ony information about this or ony other crime ot Notre Dome, please coli Crime Stoppers ot 288-STOP. You won't houe to giue your nome, ond you'll be eligible for o cosh reword. 
freshmen Craig Counsell was tabbed for left. At times, things were a bit frustrating. 
"I was like most freshmen," he recalls. "It was a big ad­justment to school and being away from home. I wasn't playing because I had a lot of good players in front of me. It was much different from play­ing every day in high school." 
Things didn't get better for Bautch in the spring as he hurt his arm and was out of action for the entire season. The turnaround came when he de­cided to stay at Notre Dame last summer and play. 
"The biggest thing I had to adjust to was seeing collegiate pitching," he said. "It was a good experience because I got to play with the guys that would be here in the fall. I was able to get back in the swing of 


100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA F..twb~t FrWay .U,III ......._.. 
-'s...lllf..._.. 
219-259-9925 
Heeeyy!! Happy 21st Tracey 'yow yow" Pinter! 
Love, 18 Greenfield (Chips-n-flowers forever) 


'EL'E(j.Ji'9(J& SP.91.CICYUS 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites 

Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

1671 Riverside Drive LL 233-2212 


Bradley with a first in the 800m and Amy Blaising who did likewise in the 3000m. Other runners who did well for the Irish were Therese Manske who was runner-up in the 1500m. Lisa Gorski finished fifth in that same race, while Jenny Ledrick followed up Blaising in the 3000 with a fourth place. Tricia Joseph gave the Irish a third in the high jump. 
The Irish will head to llillsdale, Miehigan this weekend for a meet. Hopefully, the weather will be more indicative of the sHason. 
"You worry about the cold," explained Bradley. "With the unpredietability of the weather, you never know whether to wear shorts or not. You also have a concern with tightening up." 
The "Windy City" lived up to its name as the Rugby Club played against the Chicago Condors men's club. ror the most part it was a successful weekend with the A sidf~ falling, but the B and C sides were victorious. 
The A side lost a tough 12-11 decision. 
"The had a big advantage because they 
were older and more experienced than us," 
commented wing Rob McCurren. "Most peo­
ple don't start playing rugby until college so 
by now they have the experience. But they're 
not in as good of shape." 
things and get used to the guys." 
The fall of 1989 was a com­plete reversal for Bautch from the previous year. 
"I worked just as hard as anyone else, but certain things f1ill into place," he said. "Pelt was drafted, Sass graduated and Counsell moved into the in­field. When I saw my name in the lineup that first scrimmage, I said to myself, 'this isn't so hard."' 
Now Bautch can relax in the 

fact that he'll be in the lineup 
every day 
"It builds up confidence knowing you'll play every day," Bautch says. "You know you'll have a chance to contributn 
that day. Coach has confidence in any one of tlw outfielders." 
page 14 The Observer 
ND top 3 on the spot vs. Michigan 
By BARB MORAN 
Sports Writer 

Slow courts and the top three. 
These are two key factors which may determine a victory for the Notre Dame women's tennis team when they travel to Ann Arbor today to take on Michigan. 
The Irish {14-7) will be seek­ing to prove themselves after last week's narrow loss to Ohio State, a loss which was due in large part to the team's inexpe­rience with close matches. The experience gained at the Ohio State match should help the Irish against Michigan, but whether Notre Dame will be 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team heads east to Ithaca, N.Y. to take on 16th-ranked, na­tional powerhouse Cornell at Schoellkopf Field on Saturday afternoon at 2 p.m. 
The Irish (7-4) are fresh off of a 22-8 victory over Lake Forest at Cartier Field on Tuesday afternoon, while Cor­nell, 4-3 on the season, was re­cently bested 10-9 by rival Ivy League squad Pennsylvania. 
"This is a good time in the year for us to play a team like this," observed Notre Dame head coach Kevin Corrigan. "Defensively, we've played well in our last three games. We are excited about the opportunity to play a team that is tradi­tionally ranked in the Top 20. This is our chance to take a shot at them." 
Saturday's matchup will be the first ever lacrosse meeting between the Irish and the Big Red. Last year Cornell, under the direction of head coach Richie Moran, compiled a 9-4 record en route to being elimi­nated in the first round of the NCAA Division I tournament. Moran, who has a 216-59 ca­reer record at Cornell, has 22 returning lettermen from last year's team. Despite the 4-3 record, the Big Red is a peren­nial goal-scoring machine wor-
Book 
::ontinued from page 16 

1st Round Miracle routed Wilford Brimley's Tatoos 21-0. The losers missed all 26 of their shots in joining the im­mortal group of teams to be shut out in Bookstore action. 
"Of course, we're shocked," said Kevin Guilfoile, a member of the losing team and a stu­dent assistant in the Notre Dame sports information of­fice. "We were the better team out there today, but they did the things they had to do to beat us. At 8-0, we thought we just needed to loosen up a little bit. At 15-0, we were feeling like we were about to jump back into it. The point that broke us was the 21st." 
Boyer 
continued from page 16 

Marist High School in Chicago. 
Notre Dame will lose five se­niors from last year's 16-13 squad -Joe Fredrick, Jamere Jackson, Keith Robinson, Scott Paddock and Tim Crawford. 
able to chalk up another win will depend on two other vari­ables. 
"A lot of it depends on courts that are a little slower," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "We're better on slow courts because a lot of our girls are better with groundstrokes and don't come in to the net too much. 
"A lot will also depend on how we play at the top three. We have a good chance of win­ning at four, five and six, so the key is at the top of our lineup." 
Another determining factor in the match will be a the absence of top singles seed Tracy Bar­ton and fifth seed Kristy Do­ran. They've been out with in-
thy of its 16th-place ranking. goalkeepers, sophomore Tom 
Although this is the fifth of Duane and freshman Chris Par­six games against 1989 NCAA ent. tournament teams for the Irish, who are pursuing a tournament "The success of our season is bid, the Irish feel up to the yet to be determined," noted task. The main reason for op­Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. timism is Notre Dame's bruis­"Certainly, it will be determined ing, flurrying defense. which in our next four games. We're has consistently gotten the job playing well now going into the done th~s year. Backing up the stretch, and our goals are all defensi'(e unit are two talented achievable." 

juries for almost three weeks and are expected to be back in competition next week. 
Although Louderback con­cedes that the contest will be a tight one, he has confidence in his team's ability to capture the victory. 
"They're a good team," said the coach. "Their number one and two players are good, and they're pretty deep too. We'll have to play well to beat them. 
"They're tougher than Ohio State, but if we play well, we can beat them. We just have to play better than we did last week. We can, and I think we will, too." 

Irish lax faces powerhouse Cornell 
Thursday, April 12,1990 The Observer page 15 
CROSSWORD 
CAMPUS 

11:30 a.m. Hospitality Luncheon. Center for Social Con­cerns. Sponsored by Women United for Justice and Peace. 
4 p.m. Easter Holiday begins 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Fajitas Cheese & Veg Pot Pie Veal Parmesan Monterey Muffin Melt 
Saint Mary's 

Baked llam Baked Cod w/ Broccoli & Cheddar Shrimp Egg Holls Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
A\#KU::t::t 28 Anare ana Han 
1 Arrests: Slang 29 Fodder 6Ramp 31 Drives back 11 Choral 33 "Hot" gems composition 
34 Seek election 

13 Bogyman's 35 Ground squirrel activity 
38 Dry-goods15 Egg white 
dealer 16 Pastille 
41 Animal 11 --de Ia Cite 
42 Wood sorrel 18 An ant 
44 Medea's 20 Stannum attendant in a Cherubini opera 
21 Morbid breathing sound 46 Poker-pot sweetener
231ngenuous 47 Suitor
24 Rational 49 Uncivil
25 How eccentrics behave 50 Col. Stoopnagle 21 Foulard 51 Sluggishness 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE FAR SIDE 
53 J.r.K. s predecessor 54 Child's-Set 
56 Be undaunted alter an earthquake 
58 Baby's disposables 59 Card games for two people 60 Sainted Assisi nun 
61 They make sense when backing up 
DOWN 
1 Sentimental songs 2 Aria for Cio-Cio-San 3 Movies' Erwin 
4 Pack down lightly 
5 Mug 
6 Cross home plate 
7 Loaf 8 Dane's small change 
9 River duck 
10 "Gentlemen, start your-" 
11 "Aida" premiere city 
12 Having handles 13 Splinter 
GARY LARSON 


14 Tunney and Sarazen 19 Pompey's 1002 22 Oval 24 Large gaff sail 26 Kind of club 28 Reject 30 Whiz forerunner 
32 Center of a well-known palindrome 
THE FAR SIDE 

35 Nonproprietary 36 Porridge 37 Henley Regatta 
competitors 38-d'hotel 39 Learned 40 Enigmatic 
sayings 41 Bundled 43 Maxwell or 
Essex 
45 Provender for parrots 
47 Saw wood in bed 
48 Caroline, to Edward Kennedy 
51 Chariot roadway 
52 Down with!: Fr. 
55 Nos person 
57 Homophone for earn 
GARY LARSON 



$5 general public
@@@[ji) 

Seating Tickets 
$3 students/senior cititzens 
SUB Performing Arts sponsors The Notre Dame Student Players production of 


Thursday, April 26 thru Saturday, April 28 
are available at the 

7:30 p.m. Washington Hall LaFortune Student Center Box Office. 
.. 

Sports

pa,se 16 
Thursday, April 12, 1990 
Crawford, Hippler lead Boyer signs to completeSenior Bar to 21-1 win 
Class of '94
as Bookstore rolls on 
By GREG GUFFEY

The father-son tandem of Pat 
Sports Editor 

By GREG GUFFEY and Tony Leonardo helped Sports Editor Fighting Iris II to a 21-8 vic­
Brooks Boyer, a 6-2 pointtory over My Mother Can't guard and first-team all-stateSenior Bar debuted in im-Wrestle, But You Should See Class B selection from Lumenpressive fashion Wednesday Her Box. Pat scored four Christi High School in Jackson,afternoon, routing Team BAMF points, while his son Tony had Mich., signed a letter of intent21-1 as Bookstore Basketball six. Derek Gandy led the win-Wednesday to play basketball
XIX continued. ners with seven points. 
for Notre Dame.

There are no games sched-In some close games, Dave Boyer led Lumen Christi to auled during the Easter break Goretta scored eight points to 20-5 record last season beforeweekend. Action will resume pace Art and Ted's Excellent the team lost in the regional fi­next week with the round of Adventure to a 21-19 win over
r nals. He averaged 21.9 points,256 getting under way. Broken Down Lovers Lament. 
7.0 rebounds and 5.9 assistsNotre Dame basketball player Screaming Uglys got past The per game during his senior sea­
Tim Crawford scored eight ER: We're Lovers Not Basket­points to lead Senior Bar into ball Players 21-19 behind the son. 
"He gives us another qualitythe second round. Joe Hippler eight points of Kurt Washburn. 
guard," Notre Dame assistantchipped in five baskets for the Pittsburgh Is Weak was coach and recruiting coordina­
winners. strong, defeating The Malcon­tor Matt Kilcullen said. "I ex­"1 thought we played well," tents 21-10, while Beer, Broads pect him to challenge our re­said Ed Cosgrove, who scored and Bookstore: Two Good Rea­turning players for time in thethree points for Senior Bar. "I sons To Go Te Notre Dame backcourt."
don't think it was a good downed 4 Sprockets and Their Boyer was also included onassessment of our talent. The Monkey 21-14. 
the 10-man Michigan Basket­games later on will be a better Matt Breslin scored five ball Coaches West All-Starjudge of that. I think we're go-points in helping At Least We team. He was a first-team Aca­ing to have to come together Have Jobs to a 21-11 win over demic All-State pick the pastmore as a team as the tourney Bush's Five Points of Light. It 
two seasons and was an
goes on." was the first Bookstore victory honorable mention selection inIn the highest-scoring game for the former Student Body football as Lumen Christi'sof the day, 10 Legs, 9 Hands President in four years of at­starting quarterback.
edged 5 Guys Who Lick Fat tempts. 
"He's a very versatile athlete," Shirley's Armpit 24-22. 5 Lewis Girls With Attitude Kilcullen said. "He has excellent Leo Henry and Mike Palrang Problems had a problem show­leadership qualities and weeach scored seven points for ing up for their game, as they expect him to be very successful the winners. 10 Legs, 9 Hands forfeited to Apocalypsic and the here."
trailed 11-7 at the half, but fi-4 Horsemen. 
Boyer will join three other re­nally took the lead at 19-18 and And the last game of the day cruits -6-9 twins Jon and Joethen got the two-point victory. featured maybe one of the most Ross from Northfield High"It was back and forth and pathetic displays of basketball School in Wabash, Ind., and 6-6 
we just put two together at the in the tourney. The Observer I John Studebaker 
forward Carl Cozen from
end," said Brian Delphey, a ~~~ks~~r~h=~tion .c?ntinued ~ednesday, ?ut th~ tournament halts 
member of the winning team. see BOOK/ page 14 ft yh I emarmng competrtors rest therr sprarns and strains until see BOYER! page 14 
a er t e ong weekend. 

Bautch takes over in center, helps Irish to 5-game streak 
By MIKE KAMRADT As for the Irish, they'll have as four walks and three errors "He's just learning the game," explains outfield coach Flana-
Sports Writer to watch the skies and hope to catapulted the Boilers to an 8-6 says Murphy. "He's got great gan. "He made the decision 
get in tonight's game with Pur-lead. An Irish comeback at-physical ability. He's starting to early that he could win the job 
due. The Boilermakers (16-13, tempt in the ninth fell short. understand his role as a player, in centerfield. There's nothing 
" ... and it rained for forty 2-6 in the Big Ten) beat the The Irish are riding a five but he has to enjoy and solidify holding him back from being 
days and forty nights ... " Irish 10-8 in West Lafayette game winning streak since that that role. He's a good contact the best defensive outfielder in 
If the adverse weather two weeks ago. Purdue game, including a four-man, base stealer, and bunter. the country." 
conditions around the South "They always have a tough game sweep over MCC-East ri-All those 'goods' have to be-Bautch knows the things he 
Bend area continue, this pas­squad," said Irish assistant val Dayton last weekend. A key come very goods." does well and works hard on 
sage may find new meaning in coach John Flanagan before cog in the victories over the The thing Bautch does well is those things in practice so he 
the modern age. The down­the first meeting. "It's good for Flyers was centerfielder Dan play the outfield. Anyone who can contribute to the team. 
pours haven't boded well for our kids to play this type of Bautch. The 5-10, 160-pound watches Major League baseball "My strongest point offen­
the Notre Dame baseball team team." sophomore went 5-for-10 with realizes there aren't that many sively is my bunting," says 
as they've had seven games In the earlier game, the Irish 4 singles and a triple. He upped great outfielders. Bautch has Bautch, who had three bunt 
cancelled or postponed last broke open a 2-2 tie with four his average to .283 and contin-speed as well as an instinct for hits over the weekend. "I try to 
week due to Mother Nature. runs in the seventh. Eric ued to play errorless ball in the where the ball will be as soon utilize my quickness on the 
Add to that last night's two Danapilis (4-for-5) had an RBI field (33 putouts). as it is hit, two most important basepaths. My strongest point 
games against perennial Big double and Joe Binkiewicz Head coach Pat Murphy qualities for outfielders to is my defense. I'm mainly out 
Eight power Nebraska. The added a two-run single. How-knows he has a kid who could have. there to catch flyballs." 
Cornhuskers were fresh off a ever, mistakes cost the Irish in be a fixture in the outfield for "He's worked very hard on 
wln over #1 Witchita State. the bottom half of that inning ears to come. his outfield play since day one," see IRISH, page 13 
Youth gets chance to shine in Irish spring scrimmage 
With many players missing spring football practice to concentrate on academics, Wednesday's scrimmage pro­
vided an opportunity for some of the less-heralded Irish players to shine. 
Inside linebacker Brian Ratigan, Michael Stonebreak­er's backup at the eagle FRANK PASTOR position, looked particularly 
impressive in short-yardage Football Notebook 
situations. He stopped tail­back Dorsey Levens one yard short of a first down on two consecutive plays and separated split end Tony Smith from the football on a pass over the middle. 
Ratigan, who compiled three tackles in six games last season, had seven total tackles on Wednesday, including one unassisted. Fellow linebacker Demetrius DuBose contributed seven tackles in the scrimmage. 
Defensive tackle Eric Jones also packed his biggest defensive plays into one series, first tipping away a screen pass from quarterback Jake Kelchner 
"The numbers are down," said Head Coach Lou Holtz. "So many people are missing because of aca­demics, we don't have that chemistry and together­ness. 
"There were some good plays by people getting penetration, but were they good plays or was it a missed assignment?" 
Nose tackle George Marshall, who played just un­der 10 minutes behind consensus All-American Chris Zorich last season, penetrated the offensive line for nine tackles, including two unassisted. He stopped 
tailback Rusty Setzer for no gain on a third-and­
three play. 
"The defensive line controlled the offensive line for the most part of the scrimmage," said Holtz. "We haven't spent a whole lot of time on short-yardage situations, but they seemed to respond well." 
When he could get away from Ratigan, Levens rushed seven times for 60 yards, an 8.6-yard aver­age. He broke several tackles on a 12-yard scamper up the middle for his third touchdown of the spring, and also had a 25-yard run in the scrimmage. 
Levens, expected to provide quality support at tailback, has performed so well in Rod Culver's ab­
Culver, who g~med 242 yards last season as the top fullb,ack behmd Anthony Johnson. took part in ~u.esda~ s padless workout but was unable to par­tiCipate m Wednesday's scrimmage. 
Cornerback .R~ggie. Broo~s left the field on a golf cart after colhdmg with tailback Rusty Setzer along the sidelines. Setzer appeared shaken after the Colli­sion, but walked off the field under his own power. ~rooks was taken to a local hospital as a precau­twn. The extent of the injury was undetermined. 
The quarterback competition between Mirer and Kelchner is still wide open. But now that the two have played in three scrimmages, it appears that Mirer is more willing to pass the football (15-of-21 for 189 yards, 1 TD) while Kelchner is more prone to tuck the ball under his arm and run with it. Kelc~ner carried the ball 11 times for 37 yards, in­cludmg two rushing touchdowns. His 11 carries once again led all Irish backs. 
After Kelchner's 11-yard touchdown run on the first offensive possession, the defense battened down the hatches and held the offense scoreless for 
and then dropping him for a 10-yard loss on the sence that he just may be playing himself into a the next 11 possessions. The offense then closed the very next play. starting position. scrimmage with four consecutive scores. 





