
VOL. XXIII NO. 64 .' ',-,, ! 
. THURSDAY , DECEMBER 6, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Iraq accepts Bush's offer to hold talks 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Iraq has accepted President Bush's offer to hold talks on the Persian Gulf crisis, the State Department said Wednesday. 
"We are engaged with them on dates and arrangements for the two meetings," the depart­ment said. 
Bush had proposed that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein send his foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, to Washington. Then, Bush said in making the offer last Friday, Secretary of State James Baker would go to Baghdad. 

In Buenos Aires, Argentina, Bush said any talks would be mandated by U.N. Security Council resolutions that have been adopted since the crisis began. 
"That means no concession of territory. That means freedom of innocent people that are held against their will. ... And that means the eventual security and stability of the gulf, although that's not specified by the resolution," Bush said. 
His comments eame before the State Department an­nounced that Iraq had accepted the offer to hold tai~s. 
Baker told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Wednesday that he would not negotiate with Saddam on the trip and added a new warning: "If force must be used, it will be used suddenly, massively and decisively." 
He said his meeting in Baghdad "will not be the begin­ning of a negotiation over the terms of the United Nations resolutions." Nor, Baker said, would he negotiate on subjects 
see IRAQ I page 6 

Forum on registration offers answers, but attracts few students 
By MONICA YANT 
Associate News Editor 
If numbers are indieative of how tlw stud(~Jlt body fnels about tlw rngistration process, the attendane1~ at last night's open forum showed the admin­istration one thing: thP.y don't earn. 
Only eight students showed thn administration their con­eern by attending the Student <;overnnwnt-sponsored forum. But to Michael Loux, dnan of tlw Colll~gn of Arts and Letters, tho small number of those eoming out to voice UHlir opin­ion sent a strong message. 
"The unpredictability of this audienee is part of the problem: that it is very diffieult to deter­~ni.~ln wh.at the problem really IS, hll SaHJ. 
Loux was joined by Daniel Winieur, dean of Administration and Hegistrar and Bob Williamson, associate dean of Business Administration to an­swer student questions about the registration process and complications. 
''I'm extremely disppointed with the number of students who showed up," said Rob Pasin, student body president. "We've heard countless com­plaints about registration, yet when we give students the op­portunity to speak to the ad­ministrators directly responsi­ble for the entire system, only eight show up." 
Loux attributed many of the problems within the College of Arts and Letters to the large in­flux of students in the past seven years. Today there are approximately 2800 students in the college, while seven years ago there were around 1500, he said. 
Added to the problems of ov­erenrollment is the fact that the students have flooded two de-
Soviet political problems pose threat to Gorbachev 
MOSCOW (API -A newly formed bloe of conservative and liberal legislators demanded Wednesday that Mikhail Gorbachev impose a statfl of enwrgency and suspend activities of political parties and the parliaments of four re­publics. 
The legislators, calling them­selves the National Salvation Committee, all but called for a military coup to halt the na­tion's slide into chaos. 
"There are many fascist ele­ments emerging in many parts of the country, and this process should be stopped before it is too late," said Vladimir Zhirinovsky, a leader of the Liberal-Democratic Party and a Salvation Committee spokesman. 
But Soviet President Gorbachev's main rival, Boris Yeltsin, expressed fierce oppo­sition on Wednesday to using the military to resolve the coun­try's political and economic cri­sis. He said catastrophe would result. 
The self-declared Salvation Committee includes the hard­line 'Soyuz' group of parlia­mentarians as well as the re­formist Liberal-Democratic Party. 
In asking army help to im­plement its plan and to enforce presidential powers, the group called the military "the sole force still resisting the disinte­gration of the state," the inde­pendent Interfax news agency reported. 
Leaders demanded shifting power to the committee if Gorbachev did not act, Interfax and the state news agency Tass reported. 
"Gorbachev must assume this 
see Soviets I page 4 


: Registration i90: : : : : : 
. . . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . 
. J;l·: : 
DA~T~~~ ~th~~ 

· · · problems· · · · · 
··-············· 
partments in particular: English and Government. 
As if the disproportionate numbers of English and Gov­ernment majors wasn't enough to affect registration, the Aca­demic Council's decision four years ago to add to University requirements a literature or fine arts class and a history or social science course places more of the burden on these two departments, he said. 
As a result, Loux said that "students have a hard time getting the courses they need to graduate and to get what they want." 
He told the students in atten­dance that the situation will be rectified, but that it will take time. The long-term plan of the University is to add enough faculty to the College of Arts and Letters to the point where all students can be accommo­dated. 
The short-term solution in­volves increasing the number of visiting and part-time profes­sors, as well as increasing the number of courses offered. "We're going to do the best we can to meet the needs of the students," he said. 
The Registrar's office is also trying to meet the needs of stu­dents, according to Winicur. He listened to student suggestions for changes in DART, such as adding more phone lines and a period of polling students to gauge what classes will be most requested. 
Winicur said that the Univer­sity is exploring the possibility of increasing the number of phone lines for DART, but that it is "a matter of money" and technology. 

Suggestions to enlarge exist­ing class sizes are frequent, but not always feasible, according to Winicur. The lack of rooms with enough space to accom­modate large numbers of stu­dents limits the Hegistrar's of­fice from increasing the num­ber of studflnts per class. 
While the completion of the new classroom building in 1992 should provide some relief, Winicur said until then "we don't have very much leeway." 
Winicur explained the differ­ences between the registration process before DART and with DAHT. In the past, the process involved students listing their course selections and a com­puter compilation of how many students wanted each elass. "In most cases, courses were over­subscribed," he said, referring to situations in which 125 stu­
see FORUM/ page 4 


Army PFC Michelle Niese of Ottawa, Ohio, a member of Company B, 46th Engineering Batallion, carries bottled water for her living quarters in a tent at the unit's Saudi Arabian desert encampment Tuesday. 

Thursday, December 6, 1990

page 2 The Observer 

-Ih-e-Obse..~~r­
--. --.. . .1..-:Y:.'--. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's  Staff:  
News L. Peter Yob Siobhan McCarthy  Scoreboard Dave McMahon Production  Business Christine Walsh Alicia Reale  
Accent Shonda Wilson Stephanie Snyder  Kelly Lynch Santiago Wong Cristina Ortiz  Graphics Patrick Midden Kristin McDonald  
Christine Ortiiz Ad Design Tony Paganelli  Viewpoint Allison Zima DaveCerto  Circulation Chris Hanely Lu Medeiros  
Amy Eckert  Systems  
Sports Dave Dieteman  Cesar Capella Brian Stalter  

INSIDE COLUMN 

Creativity needed to stop Snowball Fight 
Patricia O'Hara--------­warned us about it. Ann Firth warned us about it. Rob Pasin pleaded with us about it. Fr. Tyson crossed his fingers and hoped it wouldn't snow in 
Portland. John O'Brien 
Despite all of the words and the letters Managing Editor and the threats and the warnings, the annual Snowball Fight took place. In fact, all of the talk served to hype The Fight better than any immature vandal could hope. So, it is obvious that there is going to be a Snowball Fight every year, no matter how hard Prof. O'Hara and Rex Rakow try to stop it. It would appear that the only option now is to try to control The Fight in order to limit the damage to people and property. In my infinite wisdom, I have devised several ways to make the first snowfall so darn fes­tive, no one will want to have a snowball fight. First, there would be Eskimo Lunch. Uni­versity Food Services would give us a gen­uine Arctic lunch, complete with raw fish, Eskimo pies and of course, snow. The din­ing hall workers could run around the place dressed like Eskimos giving out Eskimo kisses and tall mugs filled with whale blub­ber. Be careful. though-avoid the yellow snow-it's not a lemon slushie. University Health Services would encour­age everyone to stop drinking and smoking for one day. That's right, quit-cold turkey. Yuk, Yuk, Yuk (Get it? Cold turkey.) Student Government could organize a massive group of carollers that would go from dorm to dorm singing festive yuletide musical selections. "The Dillon Fight Song," however, would be notably absent from the playlist. Support Services would try to increase awareness as to who the chick on top of the 
Dome really is. They would add a Santa 
Claus suit and wig and prove that she is ac­tually Mrs. Claus. 
Monk Malloy, noticing he has a striking resemblance to Herbie the Elf from "Rudolph the Red-nosed Reindeer," would ice-skate across the frozen tundra of St. Mary's Lake singing "I'm such a misfit ... " 
The Student Union Board could sponsor a contest to see who can cross-country ski from Club 23 to Commons without getting the crap beaten out of them. No one would win. 
The women of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's would show that they, too are feel­ing the yuletide spirit of giving and give the Blue Jogger a festive kick in the crotch. 
Of course, all of my festive ideas could fall on deaf ears and the student body might re­sort to the traditional zaniness of the Snowball Fight. The only thing the Adminis­tration can do about it then is clear: collec­tively punish the entire Student Body. Why not? It worked so well last year. 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Thursday, Dec. 6 
20 
Lines show high temperatures. 
20
40 
Yesterday's high: 31 
Yesterday's low: 12 
Nation's high: 82 
30 (West Palm Beach, Fla. and Fallbrook and Montebello, Cali.) Nation's low: 6 below (Gunnison, Colo.) 
Forecast: Partly cloudy Thursday, with highs ranging from the middle to upper 30s. Mostly clear Thursday night, with lows in the middle 20s. Mostly cloudy with a chance of 

FRONTS: 
flurries Friday, with highs• • in the middle 30s . 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
A

® © ~ ~ [I1J 0 ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
OF INTEREST 

Of interests are accepted at The Observer office The Center for Social Concerns will be hosting for free, one time events of general interest. The Observer a Hospitality Luncheon Thursday, December 6, from news department reserves the right to edit entries and de­11:30 a.m. -1:30 p.m. at the CSC. Chilean food will be termine if, when and where they will be placed. Of inter­served. The luncheon will benefit the L'Arche Community. ests are not guaranteed. The deadline is 1 p.m. Please join us for lunch. 
SEA is sponsoring the grapevine for Precycling Week. Juniors interested in being a part of the music Pick up form letters at the dining halls & the Sorin Room 
group for the class mass, there will be a rehearsal at 8:30 at LaFortune to send to friends & family to inform them p.m. tonight at St. Ed's. The class mass will be Dec. 9 at of the benefits of energy conservation. 
4:30p.m. 

Resident Assistant applications for 1991-92 are Take time out to gather, listen and reflect on the now available in the Office of Student Affairs, Room 315 Persian Gulf Crisis on Friday, Dec. 7, at 12:15 p.m. at Administration Building through January 18, 1991. 
Fieldhouse Mall. 
WORLD 

Israeli fruit, German sausages, Italian cheese and Nine impressionist paintings stolen from a Paris American medical supplies are among the products arriv­museum in 1985, including a Claude Monet masterpiece ing in the Soviet Union as part of a worldwide private ef­that gave impressionism its name, have been found in fort to ease winter shortages. Relief organizations have Corsica, authorities said Wednesday. The works; includ­chartered planes, used Aeroflot flights and organized ing Monet's famed "Impression Sunrise," were stolen truck convoys to get past the vast country's transporta­from the Marmottan Museum in a daring daytime theft tion bottlenecks. Several organizations have sent staff witnessed by more than 30 people. The nine paintings members to ensure that food and medicine reach their were found Tuesday in a villa in Porto-Vecchio in south­destinations. The Soviet government, which blames food ern Corsica. Five armed men carried out the theft, getting problems on the collapse of its central distribution sys­away easily because the museum's alarm system had been tem, has not officially asked for the food. But the chronic disconnected the previous night. shortages have worsened dramatically this winter. 
NATIONAL 

CNN has decided to allow court transcripts of its Manuel Noriega 
The National Aeronautics and Space prison tapes to be made public without Administration, which managed to launch only six space further legal battles, the network and shuttles this year, announced a new schedule Wednesday its attorney said Wednesday in Miami. of 27 flights in the next three years. The schedule includes The tapes controversy began last seven shuttle launches in 1991, eight in 1992 and 12 in month when CNN aired a series of 1993. In the three-year period, NASA also plans to launch telecasts based on Noriega's telephone 13 rockets. Their payloads include three major scientific conversations somehow leaked to the probes. For the first time, there are no secret Defense 
network. Noriega is awaiting trial on charges ot taking Department launches on the schedule. But unclassified $4.6 million in payoffs to protect the cocaine trade pass­military cargoes are slated for three flights, including the ing through Panama from Colombia to the United States. first one next year. 
INDIANA 

A pre-trial hearing was set for Feb. 7 for Carl Purvis, 19, oflndianapolis, one of three teen­agers charged with murdering a Shelbyville cou­ple whose bodies were dumped in the Eel River in northern Miami County. He was charged with one count of murder and taken to the Miami County Jail in Peru, where he made an initial court ap­pearance Tuesday afternoon. The bodies of Jason Brown, 17, and his girlfriend, Nanette Scott, 23, were found Nov. 23. The felony charge carries a 40-year-sentence . 
The discovery of PCB contamination in a flooded subdivision in Highland forced state offi­cials to seal off about 120 homes Wednesday and turn away evacuated residents who had hoped to retrieve their belongings. Tests performed by the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency showed PCB levels twice the acceptable level, said Jerome Hauer. The federal government banned the manu­facture and use of PCBs in the 1970s. The sub­stance had been commonly used as an insulator in electrical transformers. 
MARKET UPDATE 

t1-1.92 S&P Composite LA. _ 329.92 v 3 57 Dow Jones Industrials 2,610.40 '{} 30.70 
Precious Metals 
Gold ~ $4.60 to $375.80/oz. 
Silver ~ 3.0¢ to $4.238/oz. 
ALMANAC 
On December 6: 
eln 1917: Finland gains its inde­pendence. eln 1921 : Dominion status was 
given to Ireland. eln 1926: Claude Monet died at the age of 86 
eln 1957: u.s. test satellite Vanguard blows up two seconds after firing. 
e In 1973: Gerald Ford was 
sworn in as vice president. eln 1976: Pardons Board votes to uphold Gary Gilmore's death sen­tence. 
American Heart Association


The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

By STEVEN KRAUSS News Writer 
African altitudes toward art and education have been dras­tically changed by European colonization, according to a panel discussion by a group of native Africans from the Notre Dame and South Bend commu­nities. 
Professor Sylvester Jbuot of IUSB spoke of how attitudes toward artwork have been changed by colonization. "Before colonization, people looked at art as a representative of God on earth," he said, "which united the ptlople." 
This unity was compromised with the onset of <~olonization. Because Europeans felt that the art was abnormal and sacrile­gious, "Africans began to look differently at the art, causing disunity." As a result, many pieces of art were destroyed. 
Educationally, colonization caused far more drastic results, said Guillaume Zoumlome, an ND graduattl studnnt and native of Senegal. Previously, education was informal "in the sensn that it is a lived experience, a fundamental nlement of cultural growth and sodaI activity." 
With colonization, wnstnrn nwthods rnplaced native tech­niqtws. Edur.ation became more formal. "removing students 
S+'aAmerican Heart "'Association 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Chief 
For information, please contact Kelley Tuthill at 239-5303. To apply for the position, please submit a one-page personal statement 4 p.m. Sunday, Dec. 9. 
from native traditions and so­ciety," said Zoumlome. 
This created a duality be­tween what was learned in the home and what was learned formally in school. "This causes ambivalence and internal stress," he said. 
Additionally, the actual sub­ject matter being taught changed with colonization. Motivated by a desire to domi­nate the beliefs of the individual and replace them with ones that furthered the colonization process, "westernized education taught African children just enough to make them useful." Zoumlome stated. 
The discussion group was headed by Christophe Kougniazonde, president of the Notre Dame African Students Association. He called for "Reforms in African education with a movement which reaches back to cultural roots." 
Today, a middle ground be­tween native culture and west­ern ideas has been achieved. Zoumlome stressed that, "While western technology is needed to benefit the countries, it is impossible to do away with African values." 
The panel met in the O'Shaugnessy Art Gallery, in conjunction with an exhibit of African sculpture, which opened Monday. The exhibit runs through December 30th. 
AP Photo

Malnourished Iraqi Baby 
An Iraqi mother sits with her malnourished baby at a children's hospital in Baghdad, Tuesday. The Iraqi government blames the U.N. sponsored embargo as the cause of such suffering. 
United Nations discusses resolution 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The Palestine Liberation Organization on Wednesday urged the Security Council to send U.N. staff to the Israel­occupied territories to help protect Palestinians. 
The United States, however, could veto any resolution calling for deployment of U.N. per­sonnel, appointment of an om­budsman or convening of an in­ternational human rights con­vention to help the Palestinians. 
Negotiations were continuing in efforts to devise a draft reso­lution that could be adopted by consensus, or avert a U.S. veto in defense of its Israeli ally. 
Soviet Ambassador Yuli Vorontsov told reporters he did not expect a veto but declined to discuss details of a possible consensus resolution. The council was to meet against Thursday and could vote on a resolution ·on protecting Palestinians. 
"I don't think there should be any question of a veto because we are working differently now ... on a consensus basis and that's a sign of the times." 
After more than three months of close cooperation and con­
* 
sensus, he said, "the council now is not interested in scoring points or in passing resolutions that will be vetoed by the other members." 

The Soviet envoy commented after informal consultations among the five permanent members, including the United States, Britain, China and France. He said the council was "not interested in the resolu­tions, we are interested in so­lutions." 
Earlier Farouk Kaddoumi, the PLO foreign affairs spokesman, told the Security Council that it had a moral obligation to protect Palestinians from what he called Israeli crimes, like the shooting deaths of at least 19 Palestinians on Temple Mount on Oct. 8. 
He told the 15-member coun­cil that the United Nations should do no less for Palestinians under Israeli occu­pation than it has done for Kuwaitis under Iraqi occupa­tion. 
"We call upon your august council to establish a perma­nent presence of the United Nations and its personnel in the occupied Palestinian territories, 
r~:ltJpm fi£,~VH-OU0E:-MAU, 
in the context of an established mechanism, based on monitor­ing the situation and submitting periodic reports." 
His speech was delivered as the council continued an inter­mittent month-long debate about how to help safeguard the rights of Palestinians in the Israeli-held territories. 
lie also blamed the United States for protecting Israel "and its criminal practices." lie said that the contradiction between council actions in the casH of Kuwaitis under occupation and its inaction in the case of Palestinians "has come to jeopardize its credibility and prestige and to cast doubt on its potential to play its nCJquired role in our new world." 
Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar told reporters Wednesday that he intends to send his special envoy, Jean­Claude Aime, to Israel to discuss the Palestinian problem after the council concludes its debate this week. 
Several draft resolutions cur­rently are in circulation and United States is meeting with various council members in an effort to find an acceptable resolution. 

Earn
... 
while you learn. 
Manpower is looking lor students interested in earning great pay -plus commissions. We oMer flexible hours. And valuable training and business experience. Plus free use of a personal computer 
II you're a full time student. Sophomore or above. with at least a B average and are computer familiar. Manpower needs you as a COLLEGIATE REP to promote the sales of the IBM Personal System/2 on campus. 
For experience that pays, call today 
Manpower, Inc. 320 W. LaSalle Ave. 234-0157 Contact: Kim Hall 
Thursday, December 6, 1990 

page 4 The Observer 
Shuttle pilots grapple with problems in observatory; mission to conclude Tuesday 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) Parker, hampered by a jittery -Columbia's astronauts got in instrument pointing system, got twice as much star-gazing in 35 percent of the observation Wednesday, but remained far time planned for their shift. behind and nowhere near full Seventeen percent was accom­speed because of problems with plished in the crew's previous the shuttle's $150 million ob­work period and none before servatory. that, said mission scientist Ted 
"We're trying as hard as we Gull. can," astronaut-astronomer Although Gull could not say Ron Parise told ground con­when the Astro observatory trollers at the end of his 12-might reach peak efficiency, he hour shift. was confident further fine-tun­
Parise and astronaut Robert ing would increase viewing 
said he would like to know what they are. A student survey
Forum 
distributed last year gave his 
continued from page 1 office input about how DART 
affected registration, and Wini­
dents would request a class cur hopes to do the same this with a limit of 25 students. year. 
Students were then priori­Seventy percent of those who tized, by year and whether they responded last year said that were majors, and department course availability after DART chairs were left to "choose who was implemented was equal or got what." Winicur said that better than beforehand, he said. often women would be While 60 percent said that they excluded if the department had problems with closed chair didn't like women. courses, 50 percent responded Sophomores and juniors were that they were able to register also excluded from classes due for everything they wanted. to this system. Some of those people who 
"We had real difficulties with have had less trouble register­that," he said of the old system ing for classes are business of registration. students, whose problems are 
In the new DART system, stu­"different" from those in Arts dents are directly involved in and Letters, according to the process. "For the first time, Williamson. Adding part-time students really play a key role teachers to the business faculty in setting up their schedules," to the point where one in six he said. course sections are taught by 
But if students are having part-time professors has allevi­problems with DART, Winicur ated some of the problems for 
the College of Business Admin­
istration, he said. 
SECURITY BEAT 
Cutting the number of elec­
SUNDAY, DEC. 2 

tives offered. especially in the 
3:15 a.m. A Security officer apprehended 
marketing and management 
a subject for vandalism to University 
departments, has also allowed 
grounds. 
the College of Business Admin­
4:40 a.m. A Breen-Phillips resident 
istration to offer "many more 
reported receiving several harassing 
sections of required courses," 
phone calls. 
thus allowing the College to 
8:05 a.m. A Cavanaugh resident reported 
better accommodate its stu­
the theft of his wallet from his dorm room 
dents, according to Williamson. 
sometime between Nov. 30 and Dec. 1 . 
Students outside the College of Business Administration have also been able to solve some 
MONDAY, DEC. 3 

registration problems by taking 
9:30 a.m. A Carroll resident reported the 
business classes, such as the 
theft of his bookbag from the South Dining 
sophomore-year introductory 
Hall. 
courses in Accounting. as 
10:15 a.m. A Farley resident reported 
electives. 
receiving an obscene phone call. 
Loux said that the registration 
11:15 a.m. An Alumni resident reported 
crunch in the College of Arts 
the theft of his bookbag from the South 
and Letters is not as bad as last 
Dining Hall. 
year's. He explained that to 
12:50 p.m. A University employee re­
ensure each student in the 
ported the theft of her purse from the Non­Varsity Athletics office in the JACC. 
Security recovered the purse and ap­prehended and arrested two subjects in the case. Security also linked the two 
subjects to several other thefts. 
2:23 p.m. A Badin resident reported the theft of her bookbag from the South Dining Hall. 4:30p.m. An off-campus student reported receiving a series of harassing phone calls 
5:18p.m. A Flanner resident reported the theft of cash and a silver pen set from his 
time. The 10-day shuttle mis­sion ends Tuesday. 
"We're starting to think science ... and that is what it's all about," Gull said. 
Among Wednesday's observa­tions were a white dwarf star ­a star near the end of its life; a galaxy that's 41 million light years away and is believed to contain a black hole; and Crab Nebula, a remnant of a super­nova that occurred more than 900 years ago. 
College a schedule, approx­imately 14000 to 15000 spaces in classes are needed. Last year, 2000 spots were still needed on the last day of finals in December, while 2000 were also still open. 
With over two weeks until the end of the semester, Loux re­ported that the College needs to find approximately 1200 spots, but that 2600 spaces are still available. 
While Loux acknowledged that students will not automat­ically take the spaces that are available, he said that the opening of new sections of classes and process of dropping and adding should help the sit­uation. 
Loux alluded to the "ten to two phenomenon" as a possible cause of many registration problems. Although he "made efforts to convince department chairs to offer courses at other times" than between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., those courses at "8 and 9 a.m. and 3 and 4 p.m. are still open." 
"The 'ten to two phenomenon' isn't just a faculty idiosyncrasy," he said, "it's students, too." If all students attempt to make their schedules between those hours, "it's going to be hard to get anything," he concluded. 
Diligence is perhaps the best defense for students having dif­ficulty registering for their classes, according to Loux. Although new sections of classes are being added and ex­isting class sizes are being in­creased, students "have got to be perseverate," he said. 
Approaching department heads for exemptions and con­tinuing to attempt to DART classes are just two options for students who are still facing in­complete schedules, according to Loux. 

AP Photo
Mounted Patrol 

US Marine Corps Sgt. Time Gray of Florissant, Mo. patrolled the "Desert World" recreation center on his mount, Suzie, yesterday. The camel is a Bedouin gift to the marines and security guard Gray uses it for patrol duty around the rest area. 
Soviets 
continued from page 1 

responsibility or we should find an alternative," said Vladimir Voronin, leader of the Sakharov Democratic Union and a committee member. 
He said in a telephone inter­view that the committee wanted a "strengthening of presidential power." 
"Once the state of emergency is introduced, everything will calm down at once," Voronin said. "I know those democrats -they will run away at once. It will be more difficult to pacify them when they accumulate too many weapons." 
The group wants suspension of the parliaments of Lithuania, Moldavia, Georgia and Russia, because they are seen as the strongest challenge to the cen­tral government, Zhirinovsky said in a telephone interview. 
Other committee members seemed inclined to suspend all legislative bodies. 
"If presidential decrees are not obeyed in a region, that re­gion's representative bodies should be dissolved, and a plenipotentiary representative of the central government should be sent to replace it," said Voronin. 
The Lithuanian parliament declared independence on March 11 and the newly elected non-Communist parliament of Georgia is moving in that direc­tion. Moldavia is split among opposing ethnic groups. 


CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD~'90~ 
ODAY 1 S SCHEDULE: J~ 
RESIDE CHAT: NOON -lPM 
dorm room. 
~-.SHALAKO, ZUNI TRIBE TRADITION 
6:00 p.m. A LeMans resident reported her black handbag missing from Grace Hall 
LUNCH liLL BE PROVIDED ¥· 
since Dec. 1 . 
10:03 p.m. A South Bend music company 
LOUNGE, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE~ 
reported the theft of two amplifier speakers owned by the company from the basement 
TONIGHT: LAFORTUNE CHRISTMAS PART 
of Carroll Hall on Dec. 2. 
TRE~ DECORATION, DESSERTS AND CO 
TUESDAY, DEC. 4 

IN THE LOBBY ·FROM 6PM TO 8 
10:31 a.m. A Flanner resident reported the theft of a large box containing two 
FIRESIDE CHAT FOR TOMORROW: 
jackets and several other items of clothing from his dorm room. 
CAN-AMERICAN TRADITION OF KWANSAA OMORROW: SANTA PICTURES IN THE
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 5 
2:30 a.m. Four Flanner residents reported 
LAFORTUNE LOBBY FROM lPM TO 3PM 
damage to their dorm window caused by several snowballs. 
Thursday, December 6, 1990 The Observer 
page 5 

Daily News files lawsuit against striking workers 

NEW YORK (AP) -The Daily News filed $100,000 lawsuits Wednesday against eight people who face criminal charges of blocking the tabloid's distribu­tion. 
Among those sued was Joseph Martin, a truck driver for The New York Times who allegedly smashed his truck into a News vehicle driven by a replacement worker Nov. 3. 
The lawsuit alleged the re­placement driver suffered se­vere injuries in a subsequent assault by Martin. 
Theodore Kheel, spokesman for nine News unions that have been on strike for six weeks, called the lawsuits unfounded. He said the unions will chal­lenge them. 
"This is another of the con­tinuing acts of desperation of a newspaper going down the drain with only one possible solution at this time, which is to stop suing, to stop yelling and to 
Trade negotiations near collapse; Agriculture dispute threatens talks 
13HUSSELS. Belgium (AP) ­Negotiators involved in 107 -na­tion free trade talks reported failure Wednesday in their ef­forts to resolve a nasty fight over farm subsidies with some trade ministers suggesting the discussions are on the verge of brPaking down. 
"It is a stah~mate and it is se­rious," said a grim-faced U.S. TradP Hepresentative Carla llills. 
Oflidals said there would be anotlwr effort at a break­through Thursday. 
"High noun is tomorrow (Thursday)." said Canadian Trade Minister John Crobie. "If there is no change, then it is 
OVf~r." 
Thr. trade ministers emerged just before midnight from a two-hour meeting in which they sought in vain for a compromise position on the expensive subsidies that developed coun­trir.s pay to their farmers. 
An Indian official. Commerce Minister Subramanian Swamy, was pessimistic, saying, "It looks like they are heading for suspension." 
If the talks are broken off, even for a brief time, it would put the entire four-year effort at trade reform in jeopardy be­cause of the tight deadlines ne­gotiators had faced to submit a completed document to the U.S. Congress. 
The dispute pitted the 12-na­tion European Community against much of the rest of the world, including large farm ex­porters such as the United States. Brazil and Argentina. 
European officials had been expected Wednesday to agree to at least a modest expansion of their offer to reduce internal farm support payments by 30 percent. 
Instead, the Europeans emerged from their separate meeting saying they had de­cided to make no further offer 

rrliurstiay rJJecem6er 6, 1990 Stepan Center 8 PM 
TuK?ts can 6e purcfiaseafor $2 at tfie La:fortune Stutknt Center Information 'DesK._ %is event fias 6een 6rouglit to you 6y: rrfie (jender Stuaies 'Department rr1ie .J'lrts & Letters Core 'Department 
'J{p audio, vilfto or camera equipment affowuiplease 
on farm subsidies until the United States made compro­mises on other issues. 
There had also been hope that the European position might change as a result of a meeting Wednesday night in Paris between German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and French President Francois Mitterrand. 
But following that discussion, no new offer was announced. 
Crosbie described the mood inside the discussions as "somber" and said the meeting Thursday would determine whether there was any point in continuing the talks. 
"We are going to have to de­cide whether we are going to give it all up or not." he said. 
The farm subsidy fight evolved as the biggest stum­bling block to conclusion of the most ambitious round of trade liberalization talks ever under­taken. The negotiations, known as the Uruguay Round for the country where they began in 1986, had been scheduled to wrap up Friday after five days of marathon bargaining. 
But after three days the talks remained stalemated and some delegations talked openly about the possibility of giving up and going home. 

"The United States has got to recognize that this is a negotia­tion between equals, not a group of people to be pushed around in this way," said British Agriculture Secretary John Gummer. 
Otto Schlecht, Germany's deputy economics minister, said. "We have no reason to go to the Americans on our knees." 
Gummer said the Europeans had insisted on American com­promise offers in areas includ­ing trade in services, textiles and investment to be made at the same time that discussions went forward on the farm issue. 
He  said  the  U.S.  side  had  
rejected that proposa l.  
U.S.  officials  said  the  

Europeans were engaging in a desperate attempt to shift the blame for failure of the negoti­ations. 
"What is holding up the ne­gotiations here is that the European Community has not yet provided a proposal on agriculture," U.S. Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter said. 
The European Community en­tered the negotiations offering to trim domestic farm support payments by 30 percent. The United States, supported by major farm exporting countries, 
Notre Dame Communication 
and Theatre 
presents 
Accidental Death of an Anarchist 
An outrageous satirical comedy 
by Dario Fo 
Adapted by Richard Nelson 
Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
Washington Hall 
Wednesday, December 5-8:10p.m. Thursday, December 6-8:10p.m. Friday, December 7-8:10p.m. Saturday, December 8-8:10p.m. Sunday, December 9-3:10 p.m. 
Tickets: $7.00 Students/Senior Citizens: $5.00 (Wed., Thu. and Sun.) 
Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Ticket Office 
MasterCardNisa orders call 239-8128 
Groups call239-5956 
sit down at the bargaining table and reach fair and equitable agreements," Kheel said. 
The eight face criminal charges of blocking the newspaper's distribution. 
Earlier. the News filed a fed­eral lawsuit alleging racketeer­ing by the unions in blocking newspaper distribution. It also has filed lawsuits against three other people accused of strike­related violence. 
John Sloan, a News vice president. would not comment on negotiations between man­agement and unions and re­ferred calls to a federal media­tor. 
The first afternoon version of the newspaper in nine years was hawked for a second day Wednesday. Management offi­cials said the new edition had a 
30,000-copy run,  but there  
were no figures  on  how many  
copies were sold.  

was seeking much deeper cuts of 75 percent in domestic supports and import barriers and a 90 percent cut in export subsidies. 
The trade talks, the eighth in a series of negotiations dating to 1947, offered the promise of lowering prices for consumers while at the same time boosting economic prosperity, especially in Third World countries with farm-based eeonomies. 
The United States has argued that without sufficient progress in agriculture, developed na­tions will not be able to win concessions from Third World countries to reform their trade practices including agreement on tough new rules to protect against copyright piracy, some­thing that costs American busi­nesses an estimated $60 billion in lost sales annually. 
Negotiators spoke pessimisti­cally about a failure of the talks, which many fear could trigger a rise of protectionism and global trade wars. similar to the events of the 1930s that were blamed for making the Great OPpression more severe. 
"Anyone who does not admit that the round is in deep crisis is just deluding themselves," said Australian Trade Minister Neal Blewett. 

Heart Attack. Fight it with a Memorial gift to the American 
Heart Association. 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASS<I:IATION MEMORIAL PR([;RAMo~~ 
~~ 

ftAmerican Heart'V' Association 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1990 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
"unrelated" to the Iraqi occu­pation of Kuwait. 
"I will not be negotiating the Palestinian question or the civil war in Lebanon," he said. "Saddam did not invade Kuwait to help the Palestinians. He did it for his own self-aggrandize­ment." 
Joe Wilson, the deputy am­bassador in Iraq, was called in by the Iraqi foreign minister to be told of Iraq's acceptance of the offer, the announcement said. 
Wilson and a number of other 
U.S. officials remain in the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. 
Bush made last week's unex­pected overture at a presiden­tial news conference in Washington. 
It followed mounting com­plaints in Congress that the administration was rushing into war with Iraq over its invasion of Kuwait without giving diplomacy enough time for the pursuit of a peaceful settlement. 
Even so, Bush pledged the administration would not waver from the resolution approved 
Earthquake fears begin to subside 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Most stu­dents and teachers in the New Madrid Fault region were back in classrooms Wednesday after a two-day earthquake break called by officials responding to a scientist's prediction. 
New Mexico scientist Iben Browning projected a 50 per­cent chance for a major earthquake this week along the fault, which runs from Cairo, Ill., to Marked Tree, Ark. 
Earthquake experts scoffed at Browning's projection, which he based on tidal forces, but school officials throughout southeast Missouri and parts of Arkansas, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee and Indiana canceled classes. 
Some school districts that did not cancel classes reported ab­sentee rates as high as 50 per­cent Monday. 
Things were pretty much back to normal Wednesday and most students were back in school. But Missouri's Scott County Central School District didn't plan to re-open until Thursday. 
"When you're going to have problems with your attendance, you might as well not have school," said Superintendent Ray Shoaf. 
Dick Hilburn, assistant super­intendent of schools in Kennett, said he didn't notice any linger­ing earthquake fears Wednesday. 
"If there are, I can't tell it," he said. "From what I can tell, things are going about like normal. Attendance is almost normal at the high school, which I think is a pretty good gauge." 
Some school officials blamed the media for exaggerating the earthquake scare. 
"I think they got snowed," Jim Mauk, business manager for the New Madrid County Schools, said of the media. "Browning made the projection, but he's not the one who hyped
it... 
last Thursday by the U.N. Security Council threatening a forceful eviction of Iraqi troops if they did not withdraw by Jan. 15. 
Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., urged Baker at today's hearing to provide Saddam Hussein with "a way out" of the crisis. He suggested one approach would be to propose the World Court resolve Iraq's territorial claims against Kuwait. 
"If at all possible, make that a meaningful trip," Simon urged. 
Baker stressed that the U.N. resolution did not require. the United States to attack Jan. 15 or a day after. Without elabo­ration, Baker said diplomatic steps were being taken in the search for a peaceful solution. 
However, Baker insisted that Iraq must withdraw from all of Kuwait, liberate all foreign hostages and permit the restoration of the ousted gov­ernment. 
Bush, in making the offer to swap envoys, said Baker would not waver from the three de­mands. 
"The best way to get that across is one-on-one, Baker looking him in the eye," Bush said. 

AP Photo

The warmth of love 
Lynn Carter and her dau~hter.LaToya Retic, 4, hug to keep warm while waiting for aCTA train on an ele­vated platform Tuesday 1n Ch1cago. Cold northwest winds kept temperatures in the 20s. 
We'dliketo 
complimentyou 
onyourcho1ce. 

Save now on select color Macintosh systems. 
Now throughjanuary 5, 1991, take advantage ofspecial savings when you 
buy aMacintosh• Ilsi, Macintosh Ild, or Macintosh IIfx computer and an AppleColor·· 
High-Resolution RGB Monitor.• 
Whether you choose the new Macintosh Ilsi, Apple's latest powerli.Jl, affordable 
system. Or the Macintosh Ild, known for its high performance and expandability. Or the 
maximum-performance Macintosh Ilfx, with its virtually unlimited expandability. You'll 
be getting asystem oflasting value. Not to mention special savings when you buy your 
system with the AppleColorHigh-Resolution RGB Monitor. 
Hurry in today for acloser look at these Macintosh II systems. You'll praise their 
value, and we'll compliment you on your choice with special savings. No matter 
which system you choose. 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 
J.

*Offer good October 15, 19901hrough]amwy 5,1991. Offer void where prohibiled by law. CJ990 AMJ1e Compuler, /rte. AMJ/e, the AMJ1e logo, and Mo£inlosh are "'8isremi tmdemarlts ofAMJie Compuler, lrte. ~is atmdemart ofAWk Compuier, lrte. -® 
Thursday, December 6, 1990 
The Observer 

Marines discharge soldier who refused Operation Desert Shield deployment 
HONOLULU (AP) -The first Marine to refuse deployment under Operation Desert Shield was granted an administrative discharge Wednesday, Marine Corps officials announced. 
Court martial proceedings against the Marine, Jeff Paterson, were dismissed under the agreement. In return, Paterson will halt all legal ac­tion against the Corps stemming from its rejection of his request for conscientious objector status, said a military spokesman and Paterson's at­torney. 
Paterson had his rank re­duced from corporal to lance corporal under the agreement. 
In another disputn, a soldier whosn active-duty nnlistmont was extnnded without his con­sent because of the Persian Gulf crisis filed suit Wednnsday against President Bush and Army officials for breach of eon tract. 
Thn four-ynar activH-duty tour of Spnc. Sebastian Correa was to havn nnded Nov. 24. In early Septembnr h1~ was asked if he wanted to re-enlist; he declined. Two weeks later, Correa was sent to Saudi Arabia, and two weeks aftHr that he learned his tour was extended until December 1991. 
Paterson. 22, was accused of violating ordPrs following his rllfusal to board a plane for Saudi Arabia with his unit Aug. 
29. He also was charged with unauthorized absence Aug. 16, when he failed to report for duty. 
The Marines rejected his re­quest for objector status, saying it was based on political rather than moral considerations, saying they thought Paterson didn't oppose war in all forms and wasn't sincere in his beliefs. 
A statement issued Wednesday from Paterson's commanding officer at the Kaneohe Marine Corps Air Station, Brig. Gen. Phillips, said it would be too disruptive and time-consuming to have officers deployed in Saudi Arabia give depositions in the Paterson case. Phillips also said he was satisfied that Paterson had admitted guilt in his dismissal request and that all lawsuits would be dropped. 
Paterson's attorney, Eric Seitz, said, "The government had legal concerns about what the outcome would be. The case has been a source of publicity and great embarrassment to the miiitary." 
Correa's tour was extended under a military program known as "stop-loss," intended to maintain troop strength during Operation Desert Shield. 
"We have researched the law thoroughly and we feel an au­tomatic extension can only be 
00. 

enforced when Congress has declared war or the president has declared a national emer­gency," Correa's attorney, Ellis Rubin, said before filing the lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Miami. 
Defense Department spokesman Maj. Doug Hart cited a code section that over­rules all others and specifies that the president can suspend laws regarding separation as the basis of the Army's stop-loss program. 
Rubin said his client has a satisfactory service record and isn't seeking to leave the Army, just to change his status. 
Correa, 24, is an auto me­chanic with the 18th Aviation Brigade based at Fort Bragg, 
N.C. The lawsuit maintains his services aren't essential to the success of Desert Shield. 
In two other conscientious objector cases: 
-Pvt. Alfred Edwin Esquibel Jr., who refused to carry a gun to Saudi Arabia, was discharged Tuesday from the Army on grounds of fraudulent enlistment, said Bill Harralson, Army spokesman at Fort Campbell, Ky. He said Esquibel committed fraud when he joined the Army in January 1989 and indicated he was not a conscientious objector. Esquibel later filed for consci­entious objector status. 

AP Photo 

Before the Congress 
President Bush is greeted by members of the Uruguayan Congress after his speech at the Legislative Palace Tuesday afternoon in Montevideo. This is the first time that a U.S. presi­dent has addressed the Uruguayan Congress. 
about nuclear power. 
Although they did little initial research, he said the "Simpsons" creators seemed to accurately represent worker conditions -the cafeterias, lunch pails and radiation warning signs. The writers placed Homer in a "sector" to illustrate an impersonal bu­reaucracy, then discovered some plants actually used that term. 
But Simon also said the tour also "changed a lot of peoples' minds. I think the facts are pretty powerful that it's a clean and safe and important source of energy. While some of the shows were in the works be­fore, we really backed off that as a source of comedy. No more three-eyed fish." 
But don't have a cow, Simpsons fans. 
The show will continue to jab the industry in its third season next year, but in a more re­sponsible way, Simon said. 
For example, Homer is to be­gin a dinner grace with this: "Thank you for nuclear power, which has yet to cause a single fatality at least in this coun­
000 

try." Plans even call for Homer to avert a nuclear meltdown. 
"He's kind of asleep at the wheel and wakes up when there's an alarm, and doesn't know which button to press, so he goes eeney-meeney-miney­mo and hits a button and does avert a meltdown," Simon said. 
SI'EAKS i'~ ~': )
'·~f'.tr/

PRIME RIB Zc~ SEAFOOD ~~~~i· 
"HI \l"' K~v· 
Featuring friday night seafood buffet and Sunday I3runch llXl Center-MishawakJ 219-259-9925 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The nuclear power industry is hav­ing a meltdown over "The Sirnpsons." 
The prime-time cartoon show's evil power-plant owner with overbite. the dozing em­ployees and a three-eyed fish named Blinky all have con­tributed to driving industry of­ficials into a critical mass. But more than anything, Homer Simpson has them glowing un­der the collar. 
The U.S. Council for Energy Awareness, an industry infor-
Nuclear power industry objects to "The Simpsons" portrayal of plants 
right -and wrong ­
mation group, told the "Simpsons" producers in a February letter it was horrified to see nuclear plant workers portrayed as "bungling idiots." 
Top "idiot" on the council's list was Homer, father of the Simpson family and an em­ployee of the fictitious Springfield nuclear plant. Homer, perpetually in need of a shave, seems to care less about safety than about naps, dough­nuts and having enough tartar sauce for his fish sticks. 
CULTURAL CALENDAR 1990•1991 
SAINT MARYIS COLLEGE 

In various episodes, Homer gives away the plant's blueprints to a foreign exchange student, his boss tries to bribe a plant inspector with a bushel of cash, and three-eyed "Blinky" is found swimming near the plant. 
"I am sorry that the Simpsons has offended a lot of people in the energy industry," Executive Producer Sam Simon said in a Feb. 5 letter to Carl Goldstein, a vice president of energy group. "I agree with you that in real life Homer Simpson would not be employed at a nuclear power plant. 
"On the other hand, he prob­ably wouldn't be employed anywhere." 
After they exchanged a few more letters, Simon finally sug­gested he and other Fox Broadcasting Co. executives tour a real nuclear power plant. 
"We had no illusion that this was suddenly going to turn 'The Simpsons' into anything resembling real life, and it hasn't," Goldstein said. "But they were interested." 
In April, the group converged on the San Onofre nuclear power plant in San Clemente, Calif., 40 miles south of the Fox Los Angeles offices. 
"We don't have any Homers at our nuclear plant," said David Barron, a spokesman for San Onofre's owner, Southern California Edison, who accom­panied the producers and writ­ers. 
Simon said the tour showed that "The Simpsons" had been 


Business
page 8 Thursday, December 6, 1990 
TEACHER SALARIES Eslimated average salaries of public school teachers, top & bottom ten  
United States average:  
1988-89 $29,570  
1989-90 $31,166  
Source: NEA  

1988-89 1989-90 
Alaska  $41,754  Alaska  $43,153  
Conn.  37,343  Conn.  40,461  
N.Y.  36,654  N.Y.  38,925  
D.C.  36,290  D.C.  37,950  
Mich.  34,823  Md.  36,601  
Calif.  34,684  Calif.  36,418  
R.I.  34,233  R.I.  36,057  
Md.  33,895  Mich.  36,010  
N.J.  33,037  N.J.  35,676  
Mass.  32,221  Mass.  34,175  
Neb.  $23,845  Mont.  $25,081  
Utah  22,852  Miss.  24,364  
Idaho  22,734  La.  24,300  
Miss.  22,578  Idaho  23,861  
La.  22,470  Utah  23,735  
Okla.  22,370  Okla.  23,070  
N.D.  22,249  N.D.  23,016  
W.Va.  21,904  W.Va.  22,842  
Ark.  21,395  Ark.  22,009  
S.D.  20,530  S.D.  21,300  
SCHOOL SPENDING  
Estimated current  
expenditures  
for public  
elementary  
and secondary  
schools per pupil in  
average daily  
attendance, top &  
ten  
Source:  
NEA  

Baby boomers in temporary slump 
NEW YORK (AP) -It is diffi­cult to convince someone whose house has been on the market for a year at progressively lower prices that, yes, there is still a market out there. 
Potential buyers are out there, say demographers, those folks who analyze population statistics and make projections from them. And when the mix of economic elements is right, they say, those buyers may spring into action. 
The explanation lies in a fur­ther examination of the baby boom generation that followed World War II, which some marketing people assume has by now made most of its biggest purchases, such as cars and homes. 
But, others now say, some of that bulge of youngsters hasn't completed its purchases, espe­cially homes. 
The initial impact of boomers had explosive results for hous­ing. In 1976, the total value of existing homes sold was $96.6 billion. Four years later, the value was $245.7 billion. 
Glenn Crellin, an economist with the National Association of Realtors, has traced the trail left since then as the boomers worked their way through the economy. 
The boomers were hurt by the two recessions in the first three years of the 1980s, but then came back strongly. Despite the recessions, more than 30.3 mil­lion units were sold in the decade, 11 percent more than in the 1970s. 
Prices rose even more. The median leaped from $55,700 in 1979 to $93,100 in 1989, and in many areas the appreciation was at a rate of 20 percent a year for a few years. Some houses tripled in price, some even quadrupled. 
A consequence of this was that some baby boomers were priced out of the market, but not permanently. Some still wait for the proper time: lower interest rates, lower prices and a better economic outlook. 
That's one part of the poten­tial market, but still another tends to be overlooked. 
In its entirely, the baby boom era lasted almost two decades, from 1946 to 1964, but as Crellin points out, it came in two distinctly different waves. 
In the first, which lasted 10 years from 1946 to 1955, births jumped from about 2.9 million a year to more than 4 million. As that part of the boom worked it ways through the economy it was easily traced and highly publicized. 
The second wave, which lasted nine years, was not as dramatic. The number of births no longer rose, but it seldom fell either. Births plateaued at a very high level, between 4.1 million and 4.3 million a year. 
Years later the two waves had this effect on housing: 
The first produced a sudden rise in household formation, which often can be equated with housing demand. It was very, very noticeable. The sec­ond produced no sudden de­mand, but it maintained de­mand at an extremely high level. 
Coors hits Indiana markets 
GOLDEN, Colo. (AP) Coors beer will be sold in Indiana for the first time early next year, the company says. 
Indiana will be the 50th and final state targeted for market expansion by the na­tion's third-largest brewer. 
"It's always been our pol­icy to expand Coors' market­ing territory only as rapidly as our brewing and packag­ing capabilities allowed," said Terry Nauslar, director of field marketing for Coors Brewing Co. .··. "With substantial capital itivijstments in our Golden. Shenandoah and Memphis operations during 1990, we believe we're now much bet­ter-equipped to meet the de­mand for our products by 
Indiana  consumers,"  he  
said.  
Coors  began expanding  

.~ast of the Mississippi River ·in 1978. The last states into .which it expanded were 
Pennsylvania and Delaware, in 1988. 

You are invited to an * Autograph Party 
GOD COUNTRY: NOTRE DAME 

Fr. Hesburgh will be at the Notre Dame Bookstore Friday · Dec. 7 th froiD 2:30 to 4:oo First Floor of Bookstore 
r 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor News Edllor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor....••••••••••••.Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ol the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and obiectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged.  
 

not 

'live, love and laugh as if every day will be your last, 'cause someday you'll be right.' 
Lenny Bias 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Viewpoint
Thursday, December 6, 1990 
EDITORIAL 
Dear Editor: 
Poor behavior in public 
Our sewage system has been from destroyed. There is no trash
limits social opportunities 
collection. All the patients from the communicable diseases hospitals and the insaneAs members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community asylums have been let out. 
we often express dissatisfaction with our social lives and Jailed criminals have been setthe extra-curricular opportunities offered to us. However, free. The prematurely born and pulled
while we spend time whining about the lack of social 
the old on life support systems alternatives, many of us have ruined the social activities have been left to die on the
by behaving in a way that embarrasses ourselves and our 
street so Saddam can steal the suicide,schools. 
very equipment that was literally. sustaining their lives. 
Hecent dances are a good example of the immature displays found at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's events. Last Our handicapped girls have
Friday, Saint Mary's held its annual Senior Christmas 
been raped. Our babies haveFormal at a Michigan hotel. The senior class was forced 
been tortured. Homes have 
to a choose Michi8an hotel since most local facilities will been demolished. The countryno longer host Samt Mary's/Notre Dame student events, has been decimated. Everythingparticuarly those which include alcohol. 
has been stolen: cars,
At last year's Notre Dame Junior Formal, the evening furniture, everything from the 
was cut short when management asked everyone to leave stores, medication, food,
citing excessive vomiting and intoxication as the reason. 
personal belongings, life's
Last week's dance ended on a similar note. 
savings, the innocence of youth, the virginity of a generation, all The hotel's night manager was forced to contact the have been stolen. 
Director of Saint Mary's Student Activities, as well as the To those who say "peace notpolice, to explain the events that transpired that evening. 
war," I ask, is this peace? ToProblems started when as it was discovered that students those who ask for "peacefulhad stolen alcohol from the hotel bar. In addition to being negotiations," I say, think again. 
illegal, this type of behavior is appalling. Students were Saddam has never negotiated
also vomiting in the lobby and restrooms. The mens' 
anything in his life. In any case, bathroom was reported to have been covered in urine as he has made it clear that he guests found it necessary to urinate in sinks and on the floor. Many ticket holders never made it to the dance for what should have been an opportunity to unite as a class for one of the last times in a formal setting. The Saint Mary's senior class subsequently lost its deposit money 
Dear Editor: 
In his recent letter to The Observer (Nov. 29}, Fr. Edward We constantly discuss our dissatisfaction concerning 
on the facility. 
O'Connor noted an imbalance our relations with the South Bend community. An 
on campus in the discussion of incident like last Friday's does nothing to improve our 
a wide range of issues, and he already tarnished image. How can we expect the 
encouraged consideration of surrounding community to have any respect for the Saint 
the Catholic Church's teaching will be on several currently controver­
Mary's/Notre Dame community? This type of behavior can not be tolerated. These 
sial topics. This university, like actions disregard respect for the law, our fellow students, 
any other, needs reasoned dis­the community, and the facilities that host our social 
cussion on these and any num­functions. It is no wonder that the administration frowns 
ber of other issues. upon allowing alcohol at such occasions; we have yet to 
Perhaps those responsible for exhibit the responsibility to handle drinking in an adult 
fostering such discussion in the fashion. 
university community have not 
LETTERS 

Peace rhetoric ignores Kuwait reality 
does not intend to withdraw last? 
Kuwait. "That is not And to those who do negotiable," he says. His support war because of the Benevolence is only interested pain that would be inflicted on in negotiating to solve the rest civilians, I say, do not think that of the world's problems. But there are no costs, no losses, no even if he were to negotiate in pain to the economic embargo.good faith, remember that he By definition the embargo is 
out of Iran with no meant to inflict so much pain territorial gains. To completely that the occupation would be pull out of Kuwait would be intolerable. The Kuwaiti peoplepolitically if not will suffer the most. And the A negotiated embargo may not even last. settlement would mean that a There are already dear signs of part of Kuwait would have to be callousness. Even the most given to Saddam. Should we brutal of atrocities become reward murder? boring if they are heard about 
To those who say "no blood every day for months, let alone for oil," I say, you're missing years. the point. Kuwait was a very The Kuwaiti nation has onlysmall peaceful nation. There is one voice desperately crying a nation, a separate identity with what little is left of its called "Kuwait." Should it be might, "Free Kuwait! Free 
1
destroyed because it is small? Kuwait! At any cost, Free Should it be penalized because Kuwait!" In all humility, the 1 1 it espoused peaceful investment Kuwaiti nation begs for mercy, and not war machines? not the rhetoric of peace. This 
To those who say that the U.S. is not peace. At least in death has been "bad" in the past and, there is peace. thus, we should be wary of its intentions, I ask, is the U.S. Tala/ Gharabally disqualified from doing the Dept. ofEconomics right thing now? And how long Off -Campus should this disqualification Nov. 30, 1990 
Committee addresses issue imbalance 
Student Union Intellectual Life members of the university fac­Committee recognize that we ulty from different disciplines to have an obligation to promote address topics of current in­such discussion. terest. Thus far, we have spon­sored forums with representa­In order to remedy the imbal­tives from Notre Dame's ance noted by Fr. O'Connor, we Program of Uberal Studies and 
working to foster the Institute for International broader consideration of topics Peace Studies. All are encour­such as the nature and purpose aged to attend these events and of a core curriculum, women's participate in the conversation roles, homosexuality, and the of ideas on campus. character of Notre Dame as a Catholic research university. Thomas D. D'Andrea Please watch for notifications of Chair, Graduate Student our committee's events in the Union 
been fully responsive to this spring semester. Intellectual Life Committee need. We at the Graduate We have begun a forum for Dec. 3, 1990 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
/CONVICTION5! MY Rt·t:I..E(,T/ON. I BE-­YUP.'
8Y600, &V&N

51R., 5/NtE YOUR. '88 VJE;ti, Na 

UtV& f)EE{Jt.y IN MY t<e­7HAT'5
I THIN!< IF
~PEf'I..UT fO RATH­
---t:a.JV!CTIONS.' E!tCCTION! rM £W5HAK­7H~8U5H
H&MtAA/'3 HcS
50'rlt'ON& fft-<Jt'sthl· fJ< NOT 
ABU3 ON THAT POINT! I GReiAJ
V/CT/(}6, I tuONaR IF (£1 INTO IT.' l-YING!
UPON...

w caw 7E:tl/J5 7HiffMJW... I 
I
{J.JHAT )t'XIRS Af<E, 
I 

--------~­


Kinko's The Thesis Specialist 
Get the Kid Glove Treatment 
~--------------,
I I I Now Get 20% off all I I Thesis copies and I I $2.00 off hardback I I bmdmg 1
I I 
a&r-""'"""'•'·'...,
I Not IOQd With any olhrr oll'f'r I 
I "'.u.e...... I 
L--------------~ 
18187 SR 23 271-()398 
ChlneM-Amerlc•n Restaurant &
-kt•·GR£~Yf 

Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine
~'YALL 

Lunches starting at----$3.95 ~anquet rooms Dinners starting at----$5.45 f:lvailable for u~ Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
to 200 Mon.. Thurs. 11:30 Lm.to 10p.m. Fri.· Sat. 11:30 Lm.to 11 p.m. 272-7378 Sun. & Holidays11:30 Lm.lo 10p.m. 130 Dixie Wey S., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 

WE BRING MORE ROOMMATES TOGETHER BY SPLITTING THEM UP t=~ 
At 'lbe Pointe at St. Joseph we realize the cloaer you are to your roommate, the farther apart you want to be. Knowing this, we separate our 2 bedroom 2 bath with a large kitchen, separate dininl area, and living room. 

-•­
THEPOINTE 
........_ ---..-_ --­
J,naxaxa>.£V\.
............... -­
AT SAINT JOSEPH 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
I 
r 
r 
I r 
r 
...' 
I 
I 
r 

Now You Can Save Money By Sharing The Rent And Keeping Your Privacy Too 
LEASE YOURS TODAY! Graduate Students Mon.-Fri. 9-6 pm call: Sat. 10-5 pm 
MARIGOLD MARKET 

.. 
Mo/V.-FRt. !0AM -7P.M.•So\T.lOAM -bPI'-1 OF'aJ <;;:uNDAYS I-JOot-J-6PM 
~~~ 



. . 
1 ~near mage
--------~~--,-----------i 
: Hair & Tanning Salon 1 1 1 328 1/2 Dixie Way North Roseland I 1 Holiday Specials : 
: Free HairCut &Style (with Coupon) with Perm for $30.00 1 1 (long hair slightly more)2 free tanning sessions with every pkg purchasedJ I Call now, offer expires December 18 : : 277-1934 I 
~-------~£~~~~-------~ 
CAMPUS 
~onsponsportsQonsponsp 
**GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTS** AND STOCKING STUFFERS 
~ 

NOTRE DAME SPORTSWEAR & SOUVENIRS "JUST LOU IT" T-shirts 
20o/o OFF ALL MERCHANDISE 
1627 Edison Road -Next to Tracks 
Seniors! ,and 

--::a..! Holiday \.J 
-d. • •• 
Special! 

Every Thursday In December­
1e AND 2~ SPECIALS ALL NIGHT LONG 
Super Dance Sounds 
Every Wed., Fri. & Sat 
"5th Avenue" Nov. 28, 30 &Dec. 1 "3 Speed" Dec. 5, 7&8 "The Zones" Dec. 12, 14 & 15 "Break-Up Band" Dec. 19, 21 &22 "Zibby Tebo" Dec. 26, 28 &29 
103 Dixieway South. Roseland 
Good Luck on Finals 



Stop by to pick up a ~opy of our weekly ~ specials 
"The Italian Ristorante" 
"Since 1981" 
Holidays in Southern Italy are a ve:ry 
special time. PARISI'S translates these festivities with an ambiance and a traditional cuisine-which Mama cooks just for you .. Plan now for a holiday dinner at PARISI'S and enjoy with your family or guests a delectable and festive dining experience in the Italian manner. For parties small or parties large (private banquet room seats 70), or just the two of you, make your reservations now. 1991 Also make your reservations now for our Tenth Anniversary+ New Year's Eve champagne dinner *music by Fred Kerensky 
Closed Monday (Except For Private Parties South Of Notre Dame's Golden Dome 
(219) 232-4244 ::E = Buono Natale e Felice Anne;, Nuovo 
(Thanks facLA~ty, staff and students for -giving us another reat yea 

.. 


j 
j 
-
Accent
page12 Thursday, December 6, 19 
Presenting... 
Maya Angelou 
Renowned writer, producer, actor, educator 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER tionality. In television, the autobio­Accent Writer Tonight, Angelou will demon­graphical account of Angelou's strate this vitality in a talk enti­life, "I Know Why the Caged "It was awful to be a Negro tled "An Evening with Maya Bird Sings," became a two-hour and have no control over my Angelou." The talk will be held special on CBS in 1979. In ad­life. It was brutal to be young in Stepan Center at 8:00p.m. dition, she was author and ex­and already trained to sit qui­In 1952, after finishing high ecutive producer of the five part etly and listen to charges school, Angelou received a mini-series "Three Way Choice" brought up against my color scholarship to study dance with which aired on CBS, and "Afro­with no chance of defense... " Pearl Primus in New York. American in the Arts" for PBS Maya Angelou wrote of her Joining up with a European for which she was awarded the childhood in her renowned au­touring company of Porgy & Golden Eagle Award. Her latest tobiographical book, "I Know Bess, Angelou toured 22 coun­achievement is the production·-Why the Caged Bird Sings." tries as "Ruby" and the lead and direction of the play At three, Angelou and her dancer in the show. written by Errol John, "Moon brother were tagged and sent In the sixties, Angelou be­on a Rainbow Shawl," which from their birthplace, St. Louis, came, at the request of Martin opened in London in May of to the dusty town of Stamps, Luther King, Jr., the northern 1988. Georgia, where, she wrote, coordinator for the Southern Among her countless awards, "segregation was so complete Christian Leadership in 197 5, Angelou was presented that Black children didn't really, Conference. In addition, during with the "Woman of the Year absolutely know what whites Jimmy Carter's presidency he Award" in communications fol­looked like." Angelou grew up appointed Angelou to the lowed by an award for the "Top angry at the constant Commission of International 100 Most Influential Women" in oppression of her world, never Women's Year. 1983 from the "Ladies Home wholy swallowing the idea that Throughout her life, Angelou Journal." For her sensational she may never break free. has written ten best-sellers in­part in Alex Haley's "Roots," She did. cluding "I Know Why the Cage Angelou was nominated for an :~;,;t Today, she is hailed as one of Bird Sings" and "Just Give Me a Emmy. She also captured the Maya Angelou, author of "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings," wil the greatest voices of contem­Cool Drink of Water 'Fore I North Carolina Award in present a talk entitled "An Evening with Maya Angelou" tonight at 8:00. porary African-American liter­Diiie." Literature in 1987, the highest ature. A passion to help those Angelou also became the first award the state bestows. Her books are universally cov­be nothing else but exciting, in who have experienced the bit­black woman to produce an Fluent in several languages eted and her name has become formative, dramatic and, mos terness of social injustice ex­original script of a screenplay. Angelou has received doctorate an inspiration to all who cher­importantly, from the heart. udes throughout her many The film entitled, "Georgia, degrees from Smith College, ish freedom. She has become a The talk will begin at 8:0 books, films, articles, plays and Georgia," also contained an Mills College and Lawrence heroine and a role model in a p.m. in Stepan Center. General lectures. Angelou's mesmeriz­original musical score written University. world which is desperately Admission tickets are $3, stu­ing emotions and vitality touch by Angelou. She went on to The tragic. condition of her lacking both. dent and faculty tickets are $2. the hearts of all who come in write numerous other musical childhood years did not hinder As a writer, poet, director, No audio, video or flash cam­contact with her, no matter scores for her own films and the talent, vigor and wisdom producer, actor and educator, eras are allowed during the what skin color, religion or na-others as well. which characterize Angelou. Angelou's "talk" tonight could performance. 

Students gain knowledge as they "Teach for America" 
By KELLEY TUTHILL spokesman for the program. their classes for the next day, challenging thing they have News Editor The areas are targeted be­
Huschle said. ever done," Huschle said, "and cause they suffer from persis­While participants are not the principals say that the corps 
L 
iz Ciotti and Gina tent teacher shortages. The dis­paid during the training ses­members are doing great." 
Sirianni, both graduates tricts have a particular need for sion, Teach for America does While some may have reser­
of the· class of 1990, are elementary school teachers, pay for transportation to and vations about the low salaries learning first-hand what teach­bilingual teachers and high from the Institute and for room in the teaching industry, both ing is all about through the school teachers with expertise and board. Ciotti and Sirianni are satisfied Teach for America program. in science, math and foreign "The purpose of the Institute with their pay. The Teach for 
"Teaching kindergarten is a languages. is to get people acquainted with America instructors are paid lot more work than I thought In the future, the program teaching techniques and to the standard salary for a first­my teachers ever did," said may be expanded to Oakland, make them feel comfortable in year teacher in their district. Sirianni who is teaching at the Texas (especially in the Rio a classroom," Huschle said. For example, Huschle said a 92nd Street School in Los Grande valley), Houston and Because the training cannot teacher in Georgia is paid Angeles. While they both say Washington, D.C., Huschle said. teach participants all they need $17,000 while in Los Angeles the experience has been re­In addition, the program may to know, Teach for America has the salary is $29,000. warding, they agreed that also send teachers to Chicago, an ongoing professional "The salaries are commensu­teaching young children is not Ariz., Appalachia, Miss. and development and support pro­rable with the cost of living for easy. Florida. gram for the corps members. a given area," said Huschle. 
"I didn't realize the kids Next year the program will Each area has a regional direc­Not all of the corps member~ would need so much attention," take 1,000 applicants, accord­tor who coordinates support plan to stay in teaching, but th~ said Ciotti of her work at Public ing to Huschle. Along with the groups and professional devel­program encourages them tq
Why teach for America? So that 
School18 in Brooklyn, N.Y. possibility of expansion into opment activities, according to make careers in education. 
today's youth will have the 
Both women are teaching in new areas, some districts with Huschle. While at Notre Dame Ciott
opportunity to become tomorrow's 
inner-city schools for the next existing programs have asked In addition, school districts said she wasn't sure what sh
leaders. 

two years as part of a charter for more teachers. match corps members with would do for a career. "Now corps of 500 men and women Huschle could not describe a gram is available at Career and mentor teachers to provide can't think of anything I' 
who are a part of the Teach for "typical" Teach for America Placement and the Center for guidance. rather be doing." America program. member. While many partici­Social Concerns. Corps members have the op­So far, both women say the 
The program was conceived pants did service activities in Teach for America also has a portunity to teach in both ele­are pleased with their choice t by Princeton University gradu­college, their academic back­campus representative, senior mentary schools and high join the Teach for America. ate Wendy Kopp. While a senior grounds vary. He stressed that Ellen Feeney, who can answer schools. Forty-eight percent of Ciotti put it, "It's fun to watc in college, she wrote a thesis an education major is not a re­students' questions. "It's a re­those teaching in high schools the kids learn new things." describing a program for young quirement. ally exciting program," Feeney teach math and science, he teachers modeled after the Ciotti majored in government said. "It's such a good idea." said, while 52 percent teach in As both women have disco Peace Corps. and Spanish, while Sirianni was She plans to apply for a position one of the Humanities. ered in the Teach for Americ 
Her idea became a reality a psychology major. herself next year. Students who Approximately 270 of those in program, the children aren when she persuaded major cor­Both women participated in would like information can the program teach in elemen­the only ones learning ne porations into donating $1 mil­service activities as undergrad­reach Feeney at 283-1349. tary schools. things. lion, set up a staff, found inter­uates. Ciotti did an Urban Training for the program Ciotti teaches a class of ested graduates and talked Plunge, a Summer Service consists of an eight-week inten­Hispanic children from several r Do ypu have the schools into hiring them. Project and travelled to sive summer institute that took different countries. The class is most festive door on 
Ciotti and Sirianni, along with Appalachia. Sirianni also par­place at, but was not affiliated bilingual so she has the oppor­campus? three other Notre Dame gradu­ticipated in the Urban Plunge, a with, the University of Southern tunity to use her Spanish skills. Would you like your ates, were chosen from 2,500 Summer Service Project and tu­California, Huschle said. Sirianni also teaches a bilin­lights, tinsel and candidates who applied at over tored children while completing During the summer program, gual class· where she helps mJstletoe 100 colleges and universities. her undergraduate education. the corps members gain experi­some children develop their P.hotogravhed for the At Notre Dame 60 seniors ap­The selection process involves ence as student teachers each English skills. She enjoys ex­Observer? plied to the program last year a written application, a sample morning. In the afternoon, the ploring new areas with the Leave your name, and 12 were accepted. teaching demonstration and participants take courses children in her class. address, and phone 
Other corps members are two interviews. Applications for taught by a faculty of 50 active "The kids are so fun. They number in the Accent teaching in New Orleans, rural next fall must be postmarked teachers and professors of ed­teach me Spanish, and I teach box Qf the Observer, North Carolina and rural by Jan. 4, 1991. ucation. At night, students lis­them English," said Ciotti. i. 3rd floor of LaFortune Georgia, said Ian Huschle, a Information about the pro-tened to lectures and prepared "Most say this is the most L-Tliank you! 
Thursday, December 6, 1990 
The Observer page 13 
Purdue, Oregon St. football coaches lost and found 
Boilermakers still haven't found who they're 16oking for Beavers decide on Jerry Pettibone 
WEST LAFAYETTE. Ind. (AP) also very strong feelings for Cooper. CORVALLIS. Ore. (AP) -mutual agreement with the -A Purdue University search Schudel. But they (the He was head coach at Cal Jerry Pettibone, who built a school administration after a committee Wednesday committee) may decide they State-Fullerton from 1975-winning team at Northern 17-48-2 record in six seasons. interviewed .Jim Colletto, want more candidates." 1979, spent three years as an Illinois and served as recruiting Kragthorpe's team won four offensive coordinator at Ohio assistant at his alma mater, coordinator for some of the na-games in 1988 and again in Statn. but gave no indication Athletic director George King UCLA. and was offensive tion's top college football pro-1989, but the Beavers were 1­when a selection of a successor has said one of the criteria will coordinator at Purdue from grams, was named head coach 10 this year. to football coach I;red Akers be some connection with 1982-84. at Oregon State on Wednesday. Pettibone had a 33-32-1 would bn rnadn. Purdue or a strong familiarity Colletto, a native of Monterey, Pettibone, who had been on record at Northern Illinois, an 
The ninll-member committlle with thll Midwest. Calif.. played football and the Oregon State campus since NCAA Division 1-A independent. narlier intnrviewml Ball State Schudel, an offensive line baseball at UCLA. He led UCLA Tuesday, said he looked for-The Huskies were 9-2 in 1989 head coach Paul Schudel. coach at Michigan from 1975-in rushing as a sophomore ward to rebuilding a program and Pettibone was a finalist for 
Akers resignnd under pressure 84. has a 36-29-2 record in six fullback in 1963 and was that has not had a winning sea-the Kentucky job that year. last week aftiH finishing his years at Ball State. The cpatain of the 1965 team that son in 20 years. They were 6-5 this season, in-fourth season with the Cardinals were Mid-American beat Michigan State in the Rose eluding a 73-18 victory over Boilllrmakers with a 2-9 record, Conference champions in 1989 Bowl. "It's the opportunity and it's Fresno State, which was ranked the most losses in one season in and finished 7-3-2 with a loss in the challenge," he said. "This is 24th in the country at the time. Purdue history. the California Haisin Bowl. He was graduated from UCLA an excellent opportunity." Pettibone helped invent the 
Schudel was MAC coach of the in 1967. After two years at The length of Pettibone's con-job of recruiting coordinator, 
Colletto, who was a candidate year in 1989. This past season. UCLA as an assistant, he spent tract and his salary still are serving in that capacity at for the Purdue job that went to Ball State was 7-4, with one year at Brown, two years at being negotiated. But Pettibone Southern Methodist for part of Aknrs four years ago, Is the victories in its final four games. Xavier of Ohio and three at said he believes he shouldn't be 1971, at Oklahoma from 1971­only other person besides 'Td be silly to say I wouldn't Pacific before becoming head judged on the success of his 1978, at Nebraska from 1979­Schudel who has been be very interested in that coach at Fullerton. program immediately. 1981, and at Texas A&M from intnrviewnd, although there will opportunity," Schudel said of Another candidate for the "A reasonable amount of time 1982-1984. bn no "rubber stamp" selection the possibility of coaching at Purdue job four years ago was to me is live years," he said. "I Pettibone's recruits included of one of those two, athletic Purdue. Ron Meyer, a former would expect to see im-Heisman Trophy winners Billy public relations director Jim Boilermaker player and provement before that but I Sims and Mike Hozier, Vruggink said. Colletto. 45. was an assistant assistant coach who instead would not want to be judged Lombardi Trophy winner Lee 
"Thnre are nine people on the at Purdue under former coach took the job as coach of the NFL until a full cycle of recruiting Roy Selmon and Outland committee," Vruggink said. Leon Burtnett and has spent Indianapolis Colts and says he has been completed here." Trophy winner Greg Roberts. "Colletto is here today, meeting the past three years at Ohio is not interested in returning to Pettibone, 51, replaces Dave with the committne. There are State under head coach John college coaching. Kragthorpe, who resigned in a 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
\  NOTICES  MATH TUTOR NEEDED FOR GMAT. PREFER GRAD STUDENT. IF INTERESTED  NEAR N.D comfortable, secure apt: 1 bdrm · $255 dep., references 616-483·9572.  TICKETS  BACCHUS PARTY Join us for a fun filled evening of movies  Kristin Miller, Happy 21st Birthday!!! ( a little late. huh) We will  
CALL 255·7815.  ORANGE BOWL TICKETS  (the Grinch and Rudolph)  celebrate on the 8th.  
TYPING AVAILABLE  FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED  CALL (800) 226-8499  free food  ?  
287·4082  HOT! HOT! HOT!  FOR TURTLE CREEK APT  (mocktails and goodies)  
BREAKTHROUGH NUTRITIONAL  FROM  4 ORANGE BOWL TICKETS  and our special tree  
TYPING term  PRODUCTS DISTRIBUTORS  JAN.·MAY  FOR SALE: ROW 15,25 yard line.  MON DEC 10  "To be, or not to be"  
papers/reports/letters/resumes.  NEEDED/GROUNDFLOOR  PLEASE CALL 273-9406 OR  (305) 255-3432.  7:00p at THEODORE'S  Hamlet  
Pick up and delivery available.  OPPORTUNITY. CALL (612) 438·  283-2805  All welcome!!!  "TB, or not TB"  
277-5134  6317.24 HOUR RECORDED  ORANGE BOWL TIX  IT'S FREEl  Woody Allen  
Cathy.  MESSAGE.  2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2  317-879-8497  "JESTER's playing at Club 23  
MINUTES  AVOID THE RUSH I  Sat., Dec. 8th!"  
$$FOR BOOKS  WANTED: 1 RESPONSIBLE  FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON  ORANGE BOWL TICKETS (4)  AVOID THE LINES I  Rosencrantz &  
Used Texts bought and sold  INDIVIDUAL TO SHARE DRIVING  425 MONTH+DEPOSIT  FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. CALL  Guildenstern  
Pandora·s Books 233·2342  & GAS TO WASHINGTON, D.C.  232·3616  TOM (513) 931-7116. LEAVE  PLACE YOUR CHRISTMAS  
corner of NO ave and Howard  AREA. CALL PAM AT 239­ MESSAGE.  GREETING CLASSIFIEDS  RYAN DARGIS HAS A HICKEY!  
6904/6218. MON.-FRI.. 8:00A.M.·  HOUSES AVAIL. FOR 91-92 YR.  SOON. THE LAST ISSUE OF  
GRAD STUDENTS  4:30P.M.  5-6 BDRMS. REASONABLE  ORANGE BOWL TIX'S. 50 YD.  THE OBSERVER IS FRIDAY,  Need a ride to Chicago on Fri 1217  ...  
X·MAS PARTY  RATES. 232-1776.  LINE. (305) 891-0581.  DEC. 14.  to return on Sat 12/8 Call Jenny  
THIS FRIDAY NIGHT WILSON COMMONS BRING 2 CANNED GOODS FOR ADMISSION I  OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 mo. Summer, Yr. round. All Countries, Alllields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­ 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, turn., washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or  DO IT EARLY AND GET IT DONE PERS()ttriALS -BEFORE FINALS!!! I\L----------~ THE WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB  x2146 SENIORS SENIORS Sign up at Career & Placement  

 Corona Del Mar CA 92625  288·5653  hi ag  IS CHARTERING A UNITED  Services through Dec. 14--for  
LOST/FOUND  ....  CINCINNATI  1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4,  WAKEN' BAKE! SPRING BREAK  LIMO BUS OUT OF SOUTH BEND FOR ANY PERSONS  interviews for first 2 weeks of Spring Semester.  

 or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, turn.,  JAMAICAICANCUN FROM $429  WISHING TO GO TO D.C. FOR  
I LOST MY PURSE IN  I desperately need a ride to  washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or  ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL  CHRISTMAS BREAK.  THE BUS  Anne Galehouse  · This was your  
O"SHAUGHNESSY ON  Cincinnati on the friday of final  288-5653  FREEl! BOOK EARLY AND SAVE  WILL BE LEAVING FRIDAY, 21 AT  birthday!!!  
THURSDAY. 11/29. PLEASE  week, and will certainly help with  $30! 800-426-7710  11:30 P.M. AND RETURNING  
CALL PATTY 277-7685.  gas $. Please call Kristen  Female Roommate needed for  THE FOLLOWING SATURDAY.  • Sure • exactly • whatever, it  
McDonald at x2927.  Campus View Apt. call Brigid  ORANGE BOWL SPECIAL Stay  ROUNDTRIP $115 ONE WAY  doesn't matter • -ifI know • If  
Lost: Nikon camera. At Flenner  #2628  on your own private yacht lor only  $60. SIGN UPS UNTIL FRIDAY,?.  I pucking luke • Go Bathe • Barely  
Formal. II found please call x1192  CINCINNATI  ••••  $28.50/pp/day.  MORE INFO CALL BRETT X  • What's your name? Bertha, BJ .  
and ask for Tom. Camera  Single 2-Room Apt.  Special Air Fares, too!!  1416 OR TOM X 1189.  What's BJ stand for · Bolger •  
contains film with great sentimental value.  I need a ride to Philly area for x-mas break. Please !Ill  $125 w/ util. 15 min. walk from Campus  Call Easy Sailing for details 1 (800)780-4001.  Negative ·where·s Tanja• Wow ·orunk·  
Call Kathy x4238  Bob x3234  HelpII need a ride to Twin  $#'11@#(that"s your swearing and  
I lost a black "Sun Ice" ski  GRAPEVINEIII  Cities area leaving 12121 or  italian)"do the swim annie• calm  
jacket with fluorescent blue and red stripes and a blue  FORRENT  J  A quaint studio in lovely old mansion 1/2 mile from campus  WRITE A LETTER!!  after. WMI help with gas and tolls. Mary X2549  down • oh and there were so many other events that we won't  
inner lining. II found please  225 plus deposit please call  mention. Hope you had fun!! At  
call Phil at x1436.  BED ·N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  2888595  GAPEVINEII  To my knight and lover ol Boones.  least what you remember . And  
219-291-7153  No you cannot come in my hot  here's to Water shotsll  
LOST IIIII  Apts/Dorms·What's the differ­ FOR SALE  SEA ENERGY WEEK!!!  tub. Sandy doesn't want a fifth ... I had a great time last weekend  Love from your ever so evil friends!!!  
tam1ly crest keycha1n w1th a set  ence? GET A HOUSE! 6 avail.: 4·  EARTH JAM Ill!  and I'm looking forward to  
of dorm and car keys on iHf found  6 BRs; Exc.Locations; Safe; Lndy;  For Sale  EARTH JAM 1111  spending another Knight with you  
call #4500,thanks  Character; 233-9947/287-3530.  Ski Rack $50.00  soon. (As long as you don't make  Jeanne,  
TV color & remote  CHISEL, THE GENERICS,  me stay away from them)  I have lotion and whip cream.  
HELP!  1 female needed to share a brand  call 255-2719  XYZ AFFAIR, EXIT 77  Miss you. your lady in waiting  Meet me at the Inn.  
Fnday night at the Linebacker  new condo at Oakhilll Your own  7PM·1AM-STEPAN CTR.  (And believe me. I can't wait much  Love, Arthur  
I lost a gold lighter engraved  bedroom/bath. Free laundry +  Double bed, Dresser, Desk,  EARTH JAM II!!  longer...)  
 
w/MIKE. This had great senti· mental value and I'll give $25 to anyone who returns it (which is more than a new  parking. Move in now or next semester. $250/mo. Call 288· 0792.  Dining room table, Sofa. Call277-2238 FOR SALE: '85 FORD TOPAZ  SEA PRE·CYCLING! SEA PRE-CYCLING!  Do you need a ride to the DC Area on Wed., Dec. 19?  Cruise Ship Jobs HIRING Men-Women. Summer/ Year Round. PHOTOGRAPHERS  - 
one would cost) I don"t care  ROOMS FOR RENT 2ND SEM.  RED ·2 DOOR  DEAREST MALIN I,  Call Shannon X1367  !T_OUR GUIDES. RECREATION PERSONNEL.  
how you got it, but please  6-7 BDRM. HOME. INDIVIDUALS  83,000 MILES  HAVE A HAPPY DAY!! WANT  Excellent pay plus FREE travel. Canbbean,  
give It back. Call M1ke X3479 or Jim X3669  OR GROUPS. 232-1776.  MORNINGS: 239-7979 OTHER TIMES: 2991251  SOME JEAGERMEISTER. .... ?? LUV, K  ADOPTION: If you are pregnant and can't care for a child right now, please consider adoption.  Hawau, Bahamas, South Pacif1c. Mex1co. CALL NOW! Call refundable. 1-206-736-07!5, Ext. 600N  
Help!! Lost my keys! Between  PRIVATE ROOM FOR GRAD  Tesa­ We can pay medical expenses  
Carroll Hall and SOH Tu. nita  STUDENT. UTILITIES, $200/MO.  Round trip plane ticket from S.B.  llove you.  and help with other needs. We  
6 keys plus bike key on orange  SHARE KITCHEN & COMMON  to Newark for Xmas break.  Trebor  are two NO alumni who can't have  
Nike plastic keychain. Call  ROOMS WITH FIVE OTHERS.  Call John at X1879  children and have been happily  - 
Bryan x4521 for reward  232-8444 noon-6.  THANKS AGAIN, ST. JUDE.  married for 13 years and can offer  
ENJOY THE SNOW, X-COUNTRY  KD  a loving home. Please call collect  
Help!! Lost 6 keys plus bike  LG. BEDROOM IN LG. HISTORIC  SKIS, boots(8 1/2), poles. Must  317255-8701.  
lock key btwn. Carroll Hall  HOME DOWNTOWN.  sell, moving to Florida. 272-3932  FLIGHT FOR SALE  
and SOH on Tue. nita. On Nike  AVAIL. JAN. 1. 289-4383. NON·  DENVER-SOUTH BEND  
orange chain. Call Bryan at  SMOKERS ONLY.  One-way air ticket from Los  TUES. JAN. 15  For sale VW GTI '84  
x4521 for reward I  3 BDRM HOUSE, BASEMENT,  Angeles to South Bend 1/15, $100 OBO. Carol 232-3330  LOU 2246  for INFO. call255-2719  - 
WANTED  \  GARAGE, 18195 BULLA RD., $410/MONTH. 256-9500 1-5.  ORANGE BOWL FLIGHT TICKET  SENIORS SENIORS Sign up at Career & Placement  MONDAY SPECIAL $10.00 OFF PERM & HAIRCUT  
Earn $300 tp $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1-615·473-7440 Ext. B 340  House for rent next semester. 1 bedrm. $150/mo. Call Paul at 287­2159  Leaving St. Louis 5:00 Dec. 30, returning from Miami Jan. 3. Call Patx 233-7328. Asking $300 or best offer.  Services through Dec. 14--for interviews for first 2 weeks of Spring Semester  COSIMO'S SHAPES & LINES 277-1875 (Mondays Only)  For My Name After Break!!  


.... ­
pag~ 14 Scoreboard Thursday, December 6, 1990 
AP ALL-AMERICANS 

FIRST TEAM Ollense Quarterback-Ty Detmer. Brigham Young, 6-0, 175, junior, San Antonio. Running backs-Eric Bieniemy, Colorado, 5-7, 195, senior, West Covina, Calif.; Darren Lewis, Texas A&M. 6-0, 220, senior, Dallas. Wide receivers -Herman Moore, Virginia, 6-5, 197, junior, Danville, Va.; Lawrence Dawsey, Florida State, 6-1, 195, senior. Dothan, Ala. Tight end -Chris Smith. Brigham Young, 6-4, 230, senior, La Canada, Cal~. Center-John Flannery, Syracuse, 6-4, 301, senior. Pottsville, Pa. Guards -Joe Garten, Colorado. 6-3, 280, senior, Placentia, Calif.; Ed King, Auburn, 6-4, 284, junior, Phenix City, Ala. Tackles-Antone Davis, Tennessee, 6-4, 310, senior, Fort Valley, Ga.; Stacy Long, Clemson, 6-2, 275, senior, Griffin, Ga. Return specialist -Raghlb "Rocket" Ismail, Notre Dame, 5-10, 175, junior, Wilkes­
Barre, Pa. 

Placekicker-Philip Doyle, Alabama. 6-1, 190, senior, Birmingham, Ala. Defense Linemen -Chris Zorich, Notre Dame, 6-1, 266, senior, Chicago; Russell Maryland, Miami, 6-2, 273, senior, Chicago; Huey Richardson, Florida, 6-5, 244, senior, Atlanta; Kenny Walker, Nebraska, 6-4, 240, senior. Crane, Texas. Linebackers -Alfred Williams, Colorado, 6-6. 236, senior. Houston; Maurice Crum, Miami, 6-0, 222, senior, Tampa, Fla.; Michael Stonebreaker, Notre Dame, 6-1, 228, senior, River Ridge, La. Backs-Darryl Lewis, Arizona, 5-9, 186, senior, West Covina, Calif.; Tripp Welborne, Michigan, 6­1, 201, senior, Greensboro, N.C.; Ken Swilling, Georgia Tech, 6-3, 230, junior, Toccoa, Ga.; Stanley Richard, Texas, 6-2, 197, senior, Hawkins, Texas. Punter-Cris Shale, Bowling Green, 6-0, 190, senior, Beavercreek, Ohio. 
SECOND TEAM Ollense Quarterback -Shawn Moore, Virginia. Running backs-Greg Lewis, Washington; Gerald Hudson, Oklahoma State. Wide receivers-Wesley Carroll, Miami; Patrick Rowe, San Diego State. Tight end -Kirk Kirkpatrick, Florida. Center-Mike Arthur, Texas A&M. Guards-Dean Dingman, Michigan; Eric Moten, Michigan State. Tackles-Pat Hartow, Southern Cal; Stan Thomas, Texas. · Return specialist-Dale Carter, Tennessee. Placekicker-Chris Gardocki, Clemson. Defense Linemen-David Rocker, Auburn; Moe Gardner. Illinois; Mitch Donahue, Wyoming; Steve Emtman, Washington. Linebackers-Darrick Brownlow, Illinois; Levon Kirkland, Clemson; Mike Croel, Nebraska. Backs-Nathan LaDuke, Arizona State; Todd Lyghl, Notre Dame; Terrell Buckley, Florida State; Eric Turner, UCLA Punter -Brian Greenfield. Pittsburgh. 
THIRD TEAM Offense Quarterback -David Klingler, Houston. Running backs-Mike Mayweather, Army; Sheldon Cantey, San Jose State. Wide receivers -Bobby Slaughter, Louisiana Tech; Manny Hazard, Houston. Tight end-Kelly Blackwell, Texas Christian. Center -Mike Heldt, Notre Dame. Guards-Mark Tucker, Southern Cal; Ricky Byrd, Mississippi State. Tackles-Charles McCrae. Tennessee; Jeff Pahukoa, Washington. Return specialist -Desmond Howard, Michigan. Placekicker -Michael Pollak, Texas. Defense Linemen-Shane Dronett, Texas; George Thornton, Alabama; Frank Giannetti, Penn State; Kelvin Pritchett, Mississippi. 
Linebackers -Robert Jones. East Carolina; Marvin Jones, Florida State; Mark Sander, Louisville. Backs -Will White, Florida; Merton Hanks, Iowa; Kerry Valrie, Southern Mississippi; Jesse Campbell, North Carolina State. Punter-Jason Hanson, Washington State. 
NCAA SCORES 
SOUTH Appalachian St. 85, N.C. Chartotte 79 Davidson 73, N.C.-Asheville 71 
E. Tennessee St. 92, Wofford 50 High Point 1 01, Catawba 78 Oglethorpe 87, LaGrange 81 Pembroke St. 79, Wingate 66 Radford 63, Robert Morris 61 Richmond 67, Va. Commonwealth 63 South Florida 79, Miami, Fla. 71 
W. Carolina 89, Mars Hill 84 Washington & Lee 69, Bridgewater, Va. 62 William & Mary 71, Old Dominion 63 


-
-
-
1153 N. Dearbo<n St Chicago. ll 60610 312-951-0585 
NHL STANDINGS 
All Times EST WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division 
w L NY Rangers 17 9 Philadelphia 17 11 New Jersey 15 10 Washington 16 14 Pittsburgh 12 14 NY Islanders 9 16 Adams Division Boston 15 8 Montreal 14 13 Hartford 11 13 Buffalo 9 10 Quebec 5 18 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norris Division 
w L Chicago 18 9 St. Louis 15 9 Detroit 13 11 Minnesota 8 15 Toronto 6 23 Smythe Division Los Angeles 16 7 Calgary 15 9 Vancouver 14 13 Winnipeg 9 17 Edmonton 9 14 Tuesday's Games 
Boston 5, Detroit 4, OT 
Vancouver 4, N.Y. Islanders 2 Wednesday's Games Late Games Not Included 
Montreal 4, Hartford 3 
Washington 3, Pittsburgh 1 
Minnesota 3, Toronto 2 
New Jersey 9, Vancouver 4 
N.Y. Rangers at Calgary, (n) Quebec at Edmonton, (n) Winnipeg at Los Angeles, (n) 

Thursday's Games Montreal at Boston, 7:35p.m. Buffalo at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. 
N.Y. Islanders at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Toronto at Minnesota. 8:35p.m. 
Friday's Games Hartford at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. St. Louis at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Vancouver at Pittsburgh, 7:45 p.m. New Jersey at Washington, 8:05 p.m. Quebec at Calgary, 9:35p.m. 
N.Y. Rangers at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. 
HOW THE TOP 25 FARED 
How the Associated Press' top 25 teams fared Wednesday: 

1. 
UNLV (1-0) did not play. Next: at Nevada, Saturday. 


2. 
Arizona (7-0) beat Northern Arizona 100-64. Next: at No. 18 LSU, Saturday. 

3. 
Arkansas (6-1) beat Louisiana Tech 114-97. Next: at Missouri, Saturday. 

4. 
Syracuse (5-0) did not play. Next: vs. Alaska­Anchorage, Friday. 

5. 
Duke (5-2) lost to No.6 Georgetown 79-74. Next: vs. Michigan. Saturday. 


6. 
Georgetown (4-0) beat No. 5 Duke 79-74. Next: vs. Rice at the Sumrrit, Houston, Saturday. 

7. 
Indiana (5-1) did not play. Next: vs. Niagara, Friday. 


8. 
UCLA (4-0) vs. St. Mary's, Catn., Wednesday; Next: vs. Notre Dame, Saturday. 

9. 
Ohio State (3-0) did not play. Next: vs. Chicago State, Saturday. 

10. 
North Carolina (3-1) did not play. Next: vs. No. 14 Connecticut, Thursday. 

11. 
Pittsburgh (4-1) did not play. Next: vs. Marshall, Thursday. 

12. 
Alabama (2-2) did not play. Next; at No. 10 North Carolina. Saturday, Dec. 15. 

13. 
Georgia (4-0) did not play. Next: at Mercer, Saturday. 


14. 
Connecticut (3-0) did not play. Next: at No. 10 North Carolina, Thursday. 

15. 
Southern Mississippi (2-0) did not play. Next: at Tennessee Tech, Thursday. 

16. 
Oklahoma (5-1) did not play. Next: vs. Virginia Commonwea~h. Saturday. 

17. 
St. John's (4-0) beat No. 20 Georgia Tech 73­72 In overtime. Next; vs. George Mason at Provo, Lilah, Friday. 

18. 
LSU (2-1) did not play. Next: vs. Chapman, Friday. 

19. 
Michigan State (1-2) did not play. Next: at Detroit, Saturday. 


20. 
Georgia Tech (2-2) lost to No. 17 St. John's 73-721n overtime. Next: vs. Fordham, Saturday. 

21. 
South Carolina (4-1) did not play. Next: vs. No. 24 Temple, Saturday. 


(lie) Virginia (4-2) did not play. Next: vs. Vanderbilt, Saturday. 

23. 
Texas (1-2) did not play. Next: vs. Loyola, Md., Friday. 

24. 
Temple (2-1) beat St. Bonaventure 76-57. Next: at No. 21 South Carolina, Saturday. 


25. 
Kentucky (3-0) did not play. Next: vs. Kansas, Saturday. 


NBA STANDINGS 
All Timea EST 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 

Atlantic Dlvlalon T Pis GF GA W 5 39 120 91 Boston 14 2 36 110 93 Philadelphia 12 4 34 116 97 NewYork 7 0 32 101 93 New Jersey 7 2 26 116 112 Miami 5 2 20 73 101 Washington 5 
Central Dlvlalon 4 34 89 82 Detroit 13 3 31 91 94 M llwaukee 12 4 26 81 90 Chicago 11 7 25 80 81 Cleveland 10 6 16 80 129 Charlotte 8 
Indiana 7 
Atlanta 6 

WESTERN CONFERENCE T Pts GF GA Midwest Division 
2 38 96 71 W 3 33 91 76 San Antonio 9 4 30 104 105 Utah 9 6 22 90 99 Houston 9 
13 81 136 Dallas 6 
Minnesota 6 

3 35 110 82 Orlando 4 
4 34 119 91 Denver 3 
2 30 91 98 Pacific Division 
4 22 98 108 Portland 16 
2 20 77 76 Golden State 11 
LA Lakers Phoenix LA Clippers Seattle Sacramento Tuesday's 9 8 8 4 2 
Games L Pet GB L10 3 .824 9-1 6 .667 2.5 7-3 9 .438 6.5 3-7 10 .412 7 5-5 11 .313 8.5 2-8 11 .313 8.5 3-7 

4 .765 8-2 6 .667 1.5 7-3 6 .647 2 7-3 9 .526 4 4-6 8 .500 4.5 6-4 11 .369 6.5 9-7 10 .375 6.5 2-8 
L Pet GB L10 5 .643 6-4 7 .563 1 7-3 8 .529 1.5 5-5 8 .429 3 3-7 11 .353 4.5 3-7 14 .222 7 2-8 14 .176 7.5 3-7 
1 .941 9-1 6 .647 5 6-4 5 .643 5.5 8-2 7 .533 7 4-6 8 .500 7.5 6-4 10 .286 10.5 1-9 13 .133 13 2-8 
· 
Thursday'• 

TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League DETROIT TIGER5-Signed Tony Bernazard, infielder, to a one-year contract. Released Mike Schwabe, pitcher. MILWAUKEE BREWERs-Signed Franklin Stubbs, infielder-outfielder, to a three-year contract. TORONTO BLUE JAY5-Signed Pat Tabler, designated hitter, to a two-year contract. National League ATLANTA BRAVE5-Signed Sid Bream, first baseman, to a three-year contract. CHICAGO CUBs-Acquired Mike Grace, third baseman, from the Montreal Expos to complete the Dave Masters' trade. CINCINNATI RED5-Signed Bill Doran. second baseman, to a three-year contract. NEW YORK MET5-Signed Vince Coleman, outfielder, to a four-year contract. SAN DIEGO PADRE5-Traded Joe Carter, outfielder, and Roberto Alomar, second baseman, to the Toronto Blue Jays for Fred McGriff, first baseman, and Tony Fernandez, shortstop. SAN FRANCISCO GIANTs-Traded Steve Bedrosian, pitcher, to the Minnesota Twins for Johnny Ard, pitcher, and a player to be named later. 
BASKETBALL National Basketball Association BOSTON GEL TIC5-Waived Jim Paxson, guard. MIAMI HEAT-Waived Milt Wagner, guard. Activated Keith Askins, guard, from the injured list. PHOENIX SUN5-Piaced Andrew Lang, center, on the injured list. Activated Tim Perry, forward, from the injured list. 
FOOTBALL National Football League BUFFALO BILLs-Waived Rick Carey, defensive back. Signed Clifford Hicks, defensive back. PHOENIX CARDINAL5-Piaced Eldonta Osborne, linebacker, on injured reserve. Activated Amod Field, wide receiver. from the practice roster. SEATTLE SEAHAWK5-Piaced Rufus Porter, linebacker, on injured reserve. Signed Dave Ahrens, Rod Stephens and Donald Miller, linebackers. 
Alex's -An Old Time Tradition 
Alex's Shoe Hospital has been seiVing the Notre Dame community since 1919. You can't take the streetcar anymore. but today's quick trip downtown still rewards you with cartng, friendly service (often while you watt) and old time craftsmanship. 
Keep your feet in shape by trusting your footwear maintenance needs to Alex's Shoe Hospital. 
-~­
SHOE·HOSPITAL 
115 West Washington Downtown South Bend Dally 7:30-5:30, Saturday 9:00 to 1:00 
Telephone 288-2188 
) 
A 


•)'· \. 

Cleveland 121, Denver 117 Portland 98, Miami 95 New Jersey 106, Seattle 102 Orlando 113, New York 102 Philadelphia 109, Milwaukee 108, OT Chicago 155, Phoenix 127 Minnesota 83, Indiana 81 Atlanta 113, Houston 110 LA Lakers 114, Detroit 90 Sacramento 103, Dallas 83 
Wednesday'• Gamee Late Gamee Not Included 

Streak Won 2 Won 2 Lost 1 Won 2 Lost 2 Lost 1 
Lost 2 Won 1 Won 6 Lost 1 Lost 1 Won 1 Won 2 
Streak Lost 1 Won 1 Lost 1 Lost 2 Won 1 Lost 1 Lost 3 
Won 5 Won 3 Won 7 Lost 3 Won 2 Lost 6 Won 1 
Boston 148, Denver 140 Indiana 126, Phoenix 121 Portland 119, Orlando 110 Milwaukee 113, Cleveland 109, OT Atlanta 110, San Antonio 108 Detroh at Utah, (n) Washington at Golden State, (n) Dallas at LA Clippers, (n) 
Games Seattle at Miami, 7:30p.m. LA Lakers at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Charlotte at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Washington at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
OUTLAND WINNERS 
Winners of the Outland Trophy, presented annually to the year's 
outstanding interior lineman by the College Football Writers 
Association of America; 1990-Russell Maryland, DT. Miami 1989-Mohammed Eiewonibi, Brigham Young, G 1988-Tracy Rocker, Auburn, DT 1987 -Chad Hennings, Air Force, DT 1986-Jason Buck, Brigham Young, DT 1985-Mike Ruth, Boston College, NG 1984-Bruce Smith, Virginia Tech, DT 1983 -Dean Steinkuhler. Nebraska, G 1982-Dave Rimington, Nebraska, C 1981 -Dave Rimington. Nebraska, C 1980-Mark May, Pittsburgh, OT 1979-Jim Ritcher, N. Carolina St., C 1978-Greg Roberts. Oklahoma. G 1977-Brad Shearer, Texas, DT 1976 -Ross Browner, Notre Dame, DE 1975-Lee Roy Selmon, Oklahoma, DT 1974-Randy White. Maryland, DE 1973-John Hicks, Ohio State, OT 1972 -Rich Glover, Nebraska, MG 1971 -Larry Jacobson, Nebraska, DT 1970 -Jim Stillwagon, Ohio State, MG 1969-Mike Reid, Penn State, DT 1968-Bill Stanfill, Georgia, T 1967 -Ron Vary, Southern Cal, T 1966 -Loyd Phillips, Arkansas, T 1965-Tommy Nobis, Texas, G 1964-Steve DeLong, Tennessee, T 1963-Scott Appleton, Texas, T 1962-Bobby Bell, Minnesota. T 1961 -Merlin Olsen, Utah State, T 1960-Tom Brown, Minnesota. G 1959 -Mike McGee, Duke, T 1958-Zeke Smith, Auburn, G 1957-Alex Karras, Iowa, T 1956-Jim Parker, Ohio State, G 1955 -Calvin Jones, Iowa, G 1954 -Bill Brooks, Arkansas, G 1953-J.D. Roberts. Oklahoma. G 1952-Dick Modzelewski, Maryland, T 1951 -Jim Weatherall, Oklahoma, T 1950 -Bob Gain, Kentucky, T 1949-Ed Bagdon, Michigan St., G 1948 -Bill Fischer, Notre Dame, G 194 7 -Joe Steffy, Army, G 1946 -George Connor, Notre Dame, T 
in rsian gulf t-shirts 
2-color design on a high-quality 1 00% cotton t-shirt. sizes: medium, large, x-large send your name, quantity and size plus your check or money order for $12.95 per shirt to: 

dove promotions p.o. box 1904 south bend i n 46634 
allow 2 to 4 weeks for delivery <Cl 1990 dove productions 

Thursday, December 6, 1990 The Observer page 15 
All-American teams announced 
(API -Jleisman Trophy win­Everyone else is a senior. Outland Trophy and Lombardi ner Ty Detmer of Hrigham Only four players are re­Award as the best lineman in Young and runner-up Haghib peaters from last year's ·first the country. "HoekPt" Ismail of Notre Dame unit -Ismail. Colorado offen­Joining Maryland on the de­WHrH named to The Associated sive guard Joe Garten, Notre fensive line are Florida's Huey Prnss 1990 All-America college Dame defensive linemen Chris Richardson and Nebraska's football team today. Zorich and Michigan defensive Kenny Walker, the first deaf 
Detmnr set or ti11d 34 NCAA back Tripp Welborne. Notre player to make the AP team. rneords this year, ineluding Dame linebacker Michael The defense also features most passing yards in a season Stonebreaker, who made the Miami linebacker Maurice ( 5, 188) and touchdown passes first team in 1988, is back after Crum and backs Darryl Lewis of in a earner (86). The junior missing last season because of Arizona and Stanley Richard of quartorback already is second disciplinary problems. Texas. on th11 career passing yardage Hounding out the offense are list with 11,000, just 425 be­running backs Eric Bieniemy of Top-ranked Colorado and No'. hind San Diogo State's Todd Colorado and Darren Lewis of 5 Notre Dame each have three Santos. Texas A&M. wide receiver players on the team. Fourth­
Whiln Detmor drew raves for Lawrence Dawsey of Florida ranked Miami and No. 13 BYU his passing, Ismail amazed fans State, tight end Chris Smith of are next with two players and foes with his speed and BYU, center John Flannery of apiece. versatility. The Hocket gained Syracuse, offensive tackles Bieniemy and Lewis finished 157 all-purpose yards per game Antone Davis of Tennessee and 2-3 in the nation in rushing. and scornd six touchdowns as a Stacy Long of Clemson, and Bieniemy gained 148 yards per runner. recP.iver and kick re­placekicker Philip Doyle of game, scored 17 touchdowns turner. Alabama. and became Colorado's all-time 
Ismail and Dntmer are joined The defense includes leader in rushing, scoring and 
by three othnr juniors -Colorado linebacker Alfred all-purpose yards. Lewis aver­
Virginia wide receiver Herman Williams, winner of the Butkus aged 141 yards per game and 
The Observer/ File Photo 

Moor11. Auburn o1Tensiv11 guard Award as the nation's top became only the fifth player in 
Todd Lyght, despite suffering several injuries this season, was named to
Ed King and Georgia Tech de­linebacker, and Miami's Russell NCAA history to rush for more 
theAII-American Second Team defense 
fensive back Ken Swilling. Maryland, a finalist for the than 5,000 career yards. 

Cotton Bowl may decide national championship 
NEW YORK (AP) -Jim Brock got an early Christmas present this year -a Cotton Bowl that could produce the national champion. 
After years of drab games and declining television ratings, the Cotton Bowl landed a mar­quee matchup between third­ranked Texas and No. 4 Miami. If top-ranked Colorado and No. 2 Georgia Tech lose on New Year's Day, the Cotton could have its first national champion in 12 years. 
"I'd rather be lucky than good, and this year we were lucky," says Brock, the bowl's executive vice president. "Everything has fallen into place for us." 
Miami would have preferred to play Colorado in the Orange Bowl because that would have given the Hurricanes a clearer 
The Observer/ E.G. Bailey The Observer/ E.G. Bailey path to the national champi­
Raghib Ismail, shown being congratulated by teammates Derek Senior quad-captain Chris Zorich made a return trip to the ranks of All­onship. But the Orange Bowl 
Brown(left) and Ricky Watter, is the first-team return specialist. Americans for the Irish. invited Notre Dame because the 

Irish were No. 1 when tho matchup was set several weeks before the official announce­ment date.
HAPPY BIRTHDAY,
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DfiVE! 

Notre Dame then lost to Penn State and fell below Miami in
FRIEND-

the rankings, but it was too late to change the pairings. So the
I mean, 

Orange Bowl ended up with No. 1 vs. No. 5 and the Cotton got 
No. 3 vs. No. 4. "I think we have a good chance to have the national 
KATHY 

BALCONI! 
champion come out of Dallas on Jan. 1," Brock says. 
(a day early) 
For a change, that's not just talk. Texas ( 1 0-1) is seeking its
Welov~ 
first national championship since 1969, while Miami (9-2) is trying to win its second in a row and third in the last four 
Love from czveryone at 280 
ou! 

seasons. If the Hurricanes win
................... the national title, they'll be the 
first team to do it with two
• RITZ V.I.P PRODUCTIONS • losses. "I guess we have a chance,
+ Proudly Presents A Holiday Celebration : 
but lot of things have to hap­
FULL SERVICE FLORIST 

pen," Miami coach Dennis 
Plants Bouquets + A NIGHT OF JAZZ t Erickson says. "When you have 
Corsages Arrangement : "1, 1st nmeln South Bend 1;, + two losses, you need a little luck to win the national title." 
Boutonnieres Fresh and Sil 
Like Erickson, Texas coach 
David McWilliams doesn't like to speculate about who will fin­ish No.1. 
:)~~ l)~~t 
•• CHICAGO'S PREMIER JAZZ. SHOW I • 
"It's hard to predict anything
ONE NIGHT ONLY SUNDAY, Dec. 9th -Doors open at 7:00 • 
this season," he says. "Whoever 
SHOWTIME: 8:00-12:00pm
• wins (the national title), I don't 
• Ramada Inn, South Bend • 
think it's going to be a runaway. Soulb ot Unlvenlty Flll'k lllall 
There doesn't seem to be a
277-1291 • Tickets available at all ~~v.~sn:~ locations including • 
groundswell out there for any
5901 Grape Rd. 
24-hour answering service !he JACC and L.S. Ayres. Special seating available for large groups. • 
one team."
Mbhawaka. 11'1 46M~ • 
272-5220 ask for Tim 
........._....._...._._................._..._......r•••••••••••••••••••• 



The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1990
page 16 
... 
Lombardi Trophy for Zorich? Hurricanes' Maryland 
show Heisman voters they ..---------------------------~========================::.
made a mistake when the Aggies play Detm~r and BYU in 
" 

HOUSTON (AP) -One of four defensive players, including 1989 finalist Chris Zorich of Notre Dame and Indianapolis native Moe Gardner of Illinois, will be named the winner of the 1990 Lombardi Award Thursday night as the nation's top collegiate lineman. 
Joining Zorich, who lost out last year to Michigan State linebacker Percy Snow, and Gardner are David Rocker of Auburn and Russell Maryland of Miami. 
Zorich. a 6-1. 266-pound nose tackle, had 57 tackles three sacks and 11 tackles for losses for the Fighting Irish this season and was named first team All-America for the second straight year. 
Gardner, 6-2, 258, missed the final game of the season against Northwestern with a fractured forearm but still registered 50 years at Miami. 
Although pro scouts projected Maryland as a first-round choice if he decided to enter the draft last spring, he chose to 
Darren Lewis of Texas A&M: the 
best man not to win a Heisman? 
remain at Miami, saying he 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas (AP) -Darren Lewis didn't win the Heisman Trophy, but he did become a footnote to the sto­ried history of the award. 
He's college football's only 5,000-yard rusher who didn't win the coveted trophy. 
Lewis became the fifth 5,000­yard rusher in NCAA history in Saturday's 28-27 loss to No. 3 Texas, but he wasn't even in­vited to New York to participate in the Heisman Trophy presentation. 
Instead, he sat in front of his television and watched Brigham Young's Ty Detmer win the 1990 honor. Lewis finished ninth in the voting. 
"They made a good choice," Lewis said. "I went out and gave 110 percent and left it all on the field, so I am satisfied. I had a couple of bad games that probably hurt me. In the Heisman watch, one bad game can really hurt you." 
Lewis could take some solace in earning The Associated Press' All-America first team honors for the second time in his career. He was a first team pick as a sophomore when he gained 1,692 yards. He over­came a slow start in 1989 and gained 961 yards as a junior. 
Lewis has a chance Dec. 29 to 

the Holiday Bowl. But Lewis says he'll pass on the opportunity. 
"The Reisman voting is al­ready over and I give Ty Detmer all the credit he de­serves," Lewis said. "You have to play each game the best you can. 
"Just because we're playing against Ty Detmer it doesn't mean I'll try to open people's eyes and make them say 'This should have been the man.' I'll just play as hard as I can and let it go." 
Lewis wrote himself into the A&M and Southwest Conference record books in the season finale against Texas. Playing despite a bruised shoulder suffered in the second quarter, Lewis gained 150 yards on 25 carries and scored onJouchdown runs of 17, 12 an 31 yards in his final regular season game, giving him an SWC record 5,012 career rushing yards. 
He broke the SWC record of 4,450 yards set by Southern Methodist's Eric Dickerson in 
state of the art dance rock that can compete against the New Order's and Depeche Mode's on any given day." -Scene MaRazine " ... garnering attention in the Heartland, ther'"''s style and 

COME AND DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY WITH 
F RI EXOTIC BIRDS DAY, DECEMBER 7 FROM 7:30 @ STEP AN CENTER  -9:30  
Admission  IS  $3  student/$4  other  A great  way  to  kick  off your  last  

Tickets available at LaFortune Info Desk FREE FRIDAY before firals!!! or at the door 
tackles, broke up eight passes. blocked a kick and got one sack. 
Rocker. whose brother Tracy won the 1988 award, had 75 tackles, seven sacks and six tackles for losses for Auburn this season. Rocker headed an Auburn defense that ranked No. 8 in the nation in total de­fense, allowing 272.9 yards per game. 
Maryland. 6-2, 273, led the Hurricane defense that ranked third in the nation against the rush, allowing 79.7 yards per game. He had 86 tackles and 10 sacks and was named to the All-America team. 
All four nominees will be in­volved in bowl games. No. 4 Miami will play No. 3 Texas in the Cotton Bowl; No. 5 Notre Dame will play No. 1 ranked Colorado in the Orange Bowl; Auburn faces Indiana in the 
1979-82. 

Lewis has 5,162 total yards, finishing third on the all-time Aggie total offense list behind quarterbacks Kevin Murray and Edd Hargett. Murray, 1983-86, holds the record with 6,455 yards and Hargett, 1966-1968, compiled 5,411. 
The previous 5,000-yard rushers who won the Heisman were Pittburgh's Tony Dorsett, Southern California's Charles White, Georgia's Herschel Walker and Ohio State's Archie Griffin. 
A&M coach R.C. Slocum thinks Lewis also should be Peach Bowl and No. 16 Illinois plays Clemson in the Hall of 
wins Outland Trophy
Fame Bowl. 

LOS ANGELES (AP)
Proceeds from the dinner 
Miami's Russell Maryland, whobenefit the American Cancer delayed a chance to become an
Society in honor of former 
instant millionaire in the NFL to
Green Bay and Washington 
stay for his senior season, won
coach Vince Lombardi, who the Outland Trophy on
died of cancer in 1970. 
Wednesday as the nation's top interior lineman. 
Ohio State linebacker Jim The Hurricanes' defensive
Stillwagon won the first trophy tackle topped a pair of offensive in 1970 followed by Walt linemen, guard Joe Garten of
Patulski, Notre Dame; Rich 
Colorado and tackle Stacy Long Glover, Nebraska; John Hicks, of Clemson, in the final
Ohio State; Randy White, balloting by members of theMaryland; Lee Roy Selmon, 
Football Writers Association of
Oklahoma; Wilson Whitley, 
America. The group does notHouston; Ross Browner, Notre reveal the voting totals. 
Dame; Bruce Clark, Penn State; 
The 6-foot-2, 275-poundBrad Budde, Southern 
Maryland had 96 tackles and
California; Hugh Green, 10 1/2 quarterback sacks forPittsburgh; Kenneth Sims, 
Miami (9-2) this year. He will
Texas; Dave Rimington, close out his career with theNebraska; Dean Steinkuhler, fourth-ranked Hurricanes in
Nebraska; Tony Degrate, Texas; the Cotton Bowl against No. 3
Tony Casillas, Oklahoma; 
Texas on New Year's Day.
Cornelius Bennett, Alabama; Maryland has 270 tackles and and Chris Spielman, Ohio State. 
20 1/2 sacks during his four 
wanted to help the Hurricanes joining that elite group as the win the national title and try to ·Reisman winner. win the Outland Trophy for 
''I'm just disappointed that himself. this year he didn't get the credit While Miami has only a slim he deserves for being a great shot at the final No. 1 ranking, back," Slocum said. "I think Maryland has accomplished the Darren should have gotten second of his goals. strong consideration." "It's all worth it," Maryland 
Lewis was ejected for fighting said of the decision to play his in the fourth game of the sea­final season at Miami. "I have son against Louisiana State, no regrets that I stayed. and he admitted that. too, hurt "This is what college football his chances of winning the tro­is all about." he added, cradling phy. the heavy trophy. 
"We were 3-0 at the time and Maryland, a fifth-year senior I was playing good," Lewis said. who has received his degree"But I came back and played 
well the rest of the season." 

Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY 7:30,9:30 
It~ /lotflft Oooft TtiKe/ IIa;;, 221fl8il"tlu/O? 
10R~£0tft 8;118ol"jd~/ 
LOfl-e, tfo«~" Fafi-O!"t'te 
!ol(rlol( Flat 

and now is taking graduate courses in psychology, probably will benefit financially from remaining in school. He's been projected by a number of NFL scouts and general managers as a top-five pick next spring. Winning the Outland certainly provides him another bargain­ing chip. 
When he was given the tro­phy, Maryland, slightly choked with emotion, thanked his par­ents, coaches and a long list of others and said, "My freshman year, I never would have imag­ined I could come this far." 
A pudgy 317-pounder when he came out of Young High School in Chicago, Maryland initially made just one recruit­ing visit and got just one schol­arship offer -from Indiana 
State. 

But Miami stepped in late after a couple of recruits couldn't meet admission stan­dards and offered a scholar­ship. 
"When I first got to Miami, I just wanted to make an impact on the program. They (the Miami coaches) wanted me to lose weight and build up mus­cle," Maryland recalled, smil­ing. 
A soft-spoken, articulate player considered a leader by his teammates, Maryland was tagged "The Conscience." 
"I think he invented right and wrong. If you do something wrong, he's the guy who's going to scold you," Miami offensive tackle Mike Sullivan once said. 
"I guess I'm an ever-present, conscience kind of guy," Maryland said. "I always get after them (his teammates)." 

--r1 flFOol'T • "~ION ~•n 


talent here." -Billboard MaRazine 
Thursday, December 6, 1990  The Observer page 17  
scoring, rebounding and as­sists.Women The rest of the returning starters, Comalita Haysbert,continued from page 20 Margaret Nowlin and Coquese following ankle surgery. Washington round out the list of l.iebseher has played both returning starters. The three forward and guard for Notre provide balance and depth to Dame, and is known for her the team. Haysbert is Notre steady, smart instinets. Last Dame's fastest player, a must­year Liebseher finished near see on the fast break with the top of the Irish squad in sharp defensive skills. When  game homestand tonight withthe ball gets down low to 10 rebounds against Stanford. 5-0 Indiana. Next up will beNowlin (and it does often), Most importantly, the team Syracuse on Saturday after­expect the 6-1 junior to score. has fantastic court-sense and noon, Texas Christian nextWashington, the point guard chemistry, a way of finding the Thursday, and Marquette awith a knack for taking the ball open shot and turning even the week later. Last year the Irishaway from opposing dribblers, most imposing deficits into beat the Hoosiers by eightdirects the controlled Irish of­victories. points, rallying from a six pointfense quickly and with preci­deficit with a five-mintue, 14-0sion. This Irish team also has heart. They want that NCAA streak. The game is free, so get your Irish up and show yourTalented freshmen have made birth more than anything and support to a national audience. an impact already as well. have set out to prove to the Kristin Knapp has had big country that the invitation de­After all, Notre Dame mightgames against the Bruins and nied to them last year was a just have a basketball team toEvansville, while Tootie Jones huge mistake. cheer about this year. scored 1 0 points and grabbed Notre Dame begins a four-Troubles continue for Arizona: Fiesta Bowl scholarship legality questioned agreed to Friday's meeting atPHOENIX (AP) -Gov. Rose to schools that play in the bowl the request of DeConcini andMofford is going to Washington game could violate civil rights other Arizona officials and thatto help Arizona hold on to the laws. they would discuss "whatever1993 Super Bowl. The Fiesta Bowl made the of­the Arizona people believe isIn the wake of backlash from fer after the King holiday's re­pertinent to t11e issue."the rejection by Arizona voters jection prompted objections "The commissioner has saidof a paid state Martin Luther from schools and other groups. he is willing to listen to what­King Jr. holiday, Mofford and Tagliabue urged NFL team ever they have to say," AielloArizona Sen. Dennis DeConcini owners to move the league's said.are heading a delegation that championship game to another Vada Manager, Mofford'swill meet Friday with NFL state after Arizona voters press secretary, said he wascommissioner Paul Tagliabue. turned down a paid King state "not at liberty to discuss theMeanwhile, the U.S. holiday in the Nov. 6 general details" of the meeting. Department of Education on election. Bob Maynes, a DeConciniTuesday warned Fiesta Bowl Greg Aiello, a spokesman for spokesman in Washington, saidofficials that their offer of the NFL in New York, on Phoenix Cardinals owner Bill$100,000 minority scholarships Tuesday said Tagliabue had Bidwill also was scheduled to  
SPORTS BRIEFS Show you Irish spirit tonight at the women's basketball game w~rsus undefeated Indiana. Admission is free and SportsChannnl America will be taping the eontest for a tape­delayed, nationally-televised broadcast. Don't ignore your flyers! The game begins at 7:30. The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute will hold belt tnsting on Sunday, Dec. 9 from 6:30 to 8:30p.m. in room 219 of the Hoekne Memorial Gym. Visitors are welcome. Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Pangborn. Topic this week: "What is involved in being a Christian?" B.Y.O.B. (Bring Your Own Bible). Athletes and non-athletes alike are welcome. Questions? Call Mark Zoia xl606 or Cathy Bradshaw x4088. Students, faculty and staff attending the Orange Bowl arn encouraged to participate in the SeaEscape 1OK run on Dec. 29. Sponsored by the Miami Runners Club, the race eosts just $12 ($15 if registration is after Dee. 23). Awards, refrnshments and T-Shirts will be provided. Call 1-800-940­4HUN or {305) 227-1500 for more information.  


SAVE MONEY ON YOUR NEXT l 
COMPUTER WHEN YOU BUY 
THIS ONE, THE ZENITH DATA 
SYSTEMS Z-286 LP+. 
The Zenith Data Systems Z-286 LP Plus 
HOW? Simple_ Only the Z-286 LP+ is upgradable from an 80286 to an 80386 SX processor. In English, this means you get a computer today that meets your needs and a computer that can be upgraded to a more powerful one in the future, when YOU need it (and have the money). It's an affordable way to to protect your computing investment. 
SPECIFICATIONS 
Processor:  80286. upgrodo.ble to 80386 SX  
Hard Disk:  20 or 40MB  
Memory:  1 MB RAM. expe.ndable to 8MB  
Ports:  2 seriaL 1 porolle I (printer)  
Mouse:  Miaosoft Mouse  
Video:  VGA  
Software:  MS-DOS. Windo wsJO  
Monitor:  FTM 14" VGA Color  

ZENITH 
data systems 
Groupe Bull ---­

PRICING ZMF-286-X2 286 LP+ Model 20. with 20 MB hard disk. FTM color monitor. ONLY: $1777.00 0ncludes WORDPERFECT 5.1) lzMF-286-><4 286 LP+. Model 40. with 40MB hard disk_ FTM color monitor. ONLY: $1984.00 (includes WORDPERFECT 5 1)  
Contact NOTREDAMECOMPUTERSTORE MH.th/Computer Bldg. 239-7477  

attend the meeting, along with Phoenix mayor Paul Johnson, Tempe mayor Harry Mitchell, Phoenix City Council member Skip Rimza, Maricopa County supervisor Jim Bruner and a representative of the Phoenix Super Bowl '93 committee. 
"The notion was that it would be a good idea for Dennis to arrange such a meeting," Maynes said. "He's got a per­sonal relationship with Tagliabue." 
Maynes said the purpose of the meeting was to allow Arizonans to "share informa­tion with the NFL." Maynes de­clined to say where the meeting would be held, except that it will be at the Capitol in Washington and not in DeConcini's office. He said it would be private. 
Maynes said DeConcini's own position on the Super Bowl .is that he "always had the posi­tion that we should have a King Day and he obviously would like to see the Super Bowl retained in Arizona." 
NFL team owners are ex­pected to decide in March whether to move the 1993 Super Bowl. It is considered likely that they will follow Tagliabue's recommendation. 
Asked if there was any indica­tion that Tagliabue might change his opinion about mov­ing the Super Bowl, Maynes said, "I wouldn't begin to try and answer that one." 
Local officials have said the Phoenix area stands to lose about $200 million if the game is moved. 
In Washington, Assistant Education Secretary for Civil Rights Michael Williams said the Fiesta Bowl's offer may lead to discriminatory financial aid at the participating schools. 
Louisville and Alabama ac­cepted bids to the New Year's Day bowl game in Tempe, Ariz., despite protests at both schools. 
Fiesta Bowl executive director John Junker said an extra $100,000 would be added to each school's $2.5 million award from the bowl and would be earmarked for a minority scholarship fund or to endow a chair for minority students. 
"I commend your efforts at advancing minority opportuni­ties in education," Williams said in a letter to Junker. 

--~---------------------~ 
page 18 The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1990 
Big trades rock baseball talks Purdue's Hunter cleared of 
Blue Jays, Padres, Mets, Twins and Giants deal wildly rape charge, may transfer 
ROSEMONT, Ill. (AP) -Tony Fernandez, Joe Carter, Fred McGriff and Roberto Alomar got traded in baseball's biggest deal in years, the New York Mets finally caught Vince Coleman and George Steinbrenner ripped commissioner Fay Vincent on Wednesday for the free agent that got away. 
On the day when owners ap­proved in principle a collusion settlement that will cost $280 million and set Gary Gaetti, Brett Butler and 13 others free, Toronto and San Diego pulled a stunner\at the winter meetings. 
In a move that came so sud­denly that it caused gasps when it was announced, the Blue Jays sent Fernandez and McGriff to San Diego for Carter and Alomar in a deal for four of baseball's best players.. 
"We thought we'd give you an old-fashioned baseball trade," new Padres general manager Joe Mcilvaine gleamed. "We're trading four All-Stars. It was kind of a gutsy trade on both ends." 
Toronto general manager Pat Gillick, once nicknamed "Stand Pat" because he never did made moves, agreed. 
"We don't make too many trades like this these days," he said, smiling and shaking his head. ''I'm sure it will be ana­lyzed from all angle." 
The impact: Carter, who has averaged more than 100 RBis for five years, will move into an outfield that expects to lose free agent George Bell, possibly to the Chicago Cubs. Alomar, 22, will fill Toronto's search for an all-around second baseman. 
McGriff, with 105 home runs in the last three seasons, will take over first base, a position that might soon be vacant when Jack Clark becomes a "new­look" free agent. Fernandez, 28, will replace Garry Templeton at shortstop. 
The irony: at last year's meetings, Carter was traded by Cleveland for Sandy Alomar Jr., the eventual rookie of the year; this time, Carter was traded with Alomar's brother. 
Meanwhile, other dominoes began to tumble. 
The San Francisco Giants, a day after signing Dave Righetti and shocking Steinbrenner, traded reliever Steve Bedrosian to Minnesota. Pittsburgh's championship pie again got sliced as first baseman Sid Bream signed with Atlanta. That cleared the way for Franklin Stubbs, who was con­sidering the Braves, to go to Milwaukee. 
Bill Doran decided to stay at home in Cincinnati. But Pat Tabler, baseball's best bases­loaded hitter, left the Mets for Toronto. And Tony Bernazard continued a recent trend of players returning from Japan and signing with Detroit. 
The flurry will likely last long beyond Wednesday's official end of the meetings. That's be­cause at high noon, owners agreed to settle three collusion cases -it will cost each club about $10.77 million and make Gaetti, Clark Butler, Dave Smith, Jack Morris, Danny Darwin and others "new-look" free agents. The players' union must also approve, and most everything could be set in a few days. 
The owners' vote was 25-1. Montreal's Charles Bronfman, in the process of selling the Expos, was the lone dissenter. His objection came a day after he made an impassioned plea to owners to stop the salary spi­ral. 
But an owner who wasn't at the meetings made the most noise by railing against a commissioner who wasn't there, either. 

Steinbrenner blamed Vincent -at home recuperating from a respiratory illness -for Righetti's escape from the Bronx, saying his worst fears had become a reality. Last summer, Vincent forced Steinbrenner to give up daily control of the New York Yankees; in September, Vincent denied Steinbrenner permission to handle free-agent talks. 
"If I were involved, this never would've happened. If I'm there, he doesn't get away," Steinbrenner said in New York. "I don't think this had to hap­pen." 
The Mets, though, felt they had to do something to replace Darryl Strawberry's 37 home runs and team-record 108 RBis that he took to Los Angeles. So they dipped into the free-agent market for the first time since 1980 and gave Coleman a four­year contract worth $11.95 mil­lion. 
"Regardless of the situation with Strawberry, we would've been interested in Vince Coleman," Mets general man­ager Frank Cashen said. "We knew we needed more speed and a leadoff hitter." 
Coleman, 29, stole an average of 91 bases in each of six years, all with St. Louis, and was suc­cessful 83 percent of the time. He was at his best against the Mets, safely stealing the first 57 times he tried against them. 
Coleman batted a career-best .292 last season and stole 77 bases. He is a lifetime .265 hit­ter with a chopping swing ­the move from St. Louis' artifi­cial turf to Shea Stadium's grass may hurt him. 
The signing further crumbled the core of the Cardinals' championship teams. They lost Terry Pendleton and· Ken 
Happy 21st Birthdav, Tom. 
Sorry this is ., 
late, the only 
thing I ever 
did ahead 
of time was 
deliver you 
early. 
Love, Mom 

~;·:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:.:-:•:•:-:-c.:-:-:•:•:•:•:•:-:•:•=-=-=--~=-=•:•:•:•:•:•;• 
~ ::: ~ :::  SOPHOMORES The new dead line  ~ :: t ::  
~ ~  for returning SOPHOMORE SIBS  ~ ~  
forms is Thursday, Dec. 6. Return  ~ :­ 
forms to the Soph. Class OHice and call  ~ ·:  
239-5225 for more information.  ~.~:·: ..  

I 

................~~~-·~_........................................ ~ '-------------------------...1 
Dayley to free agency this win­ter and traded away Willie McGee last August. 
The Pirates, the new National League East champions, know the feeling. They lost R.J. Reynolds recently and now Bream is going to Atlanta for three years and $5.5 million. Pittsburgh could also soon lose free agents Zane Smith, Wally Backman and Ted Power. 
. "It tears your heart out a little bit to see when, in two weeks or so, you could lose six or seven players," Pirates manager Jim Leyland said. "We've come a long way since 1986 and it's a shame to see it happen." 
The Braves had offered a three-year, $5.4 million con­tract to Stubbs. Instead, Stubbs, who set a Houston record with 23 home runs by a left-handed hitter last season, got a three­year, $6 million deal from the Brewers. 
Stubbs, mostly a first base­man, will play right field, a slot left open when Rob Deer went to Detroit. 
"It's not his best position, but he can play there well enough," Brewers manager Tom Trebelhorn said. 
Doran drew interest from several teams, particularly Los Angeles, before deciding on the Reds. He was born in Cincinnati and traded from Houston to the Reds late last season. 
Doran got a three-year, $7.3 million contract to play second base. He probably will split time with Mariano Duncan. 
The Giants, with a surplus of relievers after signing Righetti, sent Bedrosian to the Twins for a minor leaguer and a player to be named later. Bedrosian, 33 on Thursday, will give Minnesota a chance to move converted starter Rick Aguilera from the bullpen into the rota­tion. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Quarterback Eric Hunter, cleared in an investigation of an alleged rape, says he'll wait until Purdue picks its new foot­ball coach before he decides whether to stay with the Boilermakers. 
Fred Akers stepped down as Purdue's coach last Thursday, and a nine-member search committee is in the process of interviewing candidates. 
"Once the head coach leaves, there's always a chance that one might continue his career elsewhere, depending on who they bring in," Hunter said. "At this time I'm thinking of what's best for me. It depends on who they bring in and what he likes w do (on offense)." 
Hunter was the Big Ten Conference's freshman of the year in 1989. He struggled somewhat in 1990 when Purdue switched to the run­and-shoot offense. 
On Tuesday, Tippecanoe County Prosecutor John Meyers announced that a police inves­tigation had cleared Hunter of a complaint brought by an out-of­state teen-ager who said Hunter raped her in a hotel room on campus on Nov. 11. 
"The evidence, touching all bases, was very plain in my mind. There was definitely, clearly, no basis for charges," Meyers said. 
Hunter said Tuesday that he was glad the investigation was over. 
"I knew it was just a matter of time before it'd be over any-
Only $1.00 
PICTURES WITH SANTA! 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7TH
• 

way, because none of the accu­sations were true at all," Hunter said. "It was a tough time. It was definitely a learn­ing experience. Hopefully I'll continue to learn from it." 
The girl was visiting the cam­pus as part of a women's bas­ketball recruiting trip. 
Hunter said he wouldn't mind if the new coach scraps the run-and-shoot, but he would prefer a pro-style, or some other kind, of passing offense. 
"I think we definitely need to throw the ball a lot," he said. "You can't come in here and just run the ball, run the ball, run the ball. That's a big change in such a short time. 
"I think I can run any type offense, but I'd like to be happy when I'm running it." 
Whether the next coach keeps Fred Jackson on his staff or not could play a role in whether Hunter goes or stays. Jackson took over as Akers' offensive coordinator this past season and also was the quarterback coach. 
"I think that might be a real big factor," Hunter said. "Coach Jackson and I have been together through thick and thin, and tough times. I think he's a great coach, and if he would happen to leave and go somewhere else, that would hurt me." 
Hunter also seriously consid­ered Tennessee and Maryland when he was being recruited out of Hampton, Va., but he said he was undecided where he would transfer to if he does decide to leave Purdue. 

1:00 pm · 3:00 pm Lafortune Lobby 
FREE! 

All Faculty, StaH 
+ Students Welcome! Smile+ Say 
(?Merry Christmas " 
Thursday, December 6, 1990 
The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering & Center for Applied Mathematics Seminar, "Some Aspects of thfl Modeling of Bubbly Flows," Prof. Jean Bataille, Ecole Centrale de Lyon, France. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall of EnginMring. Sponsored by Aerospace and Mechanical EngineP.ring. 4:15p.m. Graduate Colloquium in the History of Science, "The Significance of the Concept of Predisposing Cause in Early Nineteenth-Century Public Health" Prof. Christopher Hamlin. dP.partment of history. Room 221, O'Shaughnessy Hall. Sponsored by Program in the History and Philosophy of Science. 8 p.m. Grace I Jail Coffeehouse. Slide presentation & dis­cussion. Carl Loesch (Graduate Student), Allen Crosbie (Graduat11 Student) will speak on a recent visit to El Salvador. Sponsored by Grace Hall Intellectual Life Committee. CAMPUS 7 p.m. 18th Annual Madrigal Christmas Dinner, Regina Hall North, Saint Mary's College. Admission $22.50. 8 p.m. "An Evening with Maya Angelou," Maya An­gelou, poet, playwrite, and author. Stepan Center. Admis­sion students and faculty, $2.00. General public, $3.00. (Tickets available at the information desk, LaFortune Student Center.) Sponsored by the Student Union Board. 8 p.m. Film. "The Good, the Bad, the U-gly." Mont­gomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by Student Union Board. 8:10p.m. Mainstage season play, "Accidental Death of an Anarchist." Directed by Mark Pilkinton. Washington Hall. (For further information please call 219 -239 -5956.) Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre.  ACROSS 33 Pale 67 Gets some sun 37 Pollster Roper1 Shade trees 68 Natal town of 39 Trabant or sopranosCiue Rambler Mitchell9lmbibed 40 Start of a team 69lntends14 Barkley cheer 70 Friend ofsobriquet 43 Poi plant Antony15 Building 44ldol support 71 Headland 45 Sassafras16 Forearm bones quartet 17 Culture 46 African river DOWN preceder 48-theRed 1 A memorable18 Queue so Footed vase Maurice19 Wrongdoings 52 Certain leathers 2 Lawful, for short20 "Peanuts" 57 Symbol of 3 Choreographer23 The Taller phoniness Cunninghamessayist 63 Haley book 4 Railroad nail24 Wolf's relative 64 Peru's capital 5 Ancient Jewish25 Singer 65 Except spiritual leaderFitzgerald 66"­6 Sacred bird of28"01d-," Rappaport," 12 DownDisney classic Broadway hit 7 Zola novel 8 Current style ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Deepen a channel 30 Pitcher Tiant  31 Major ending 32 Betsy or Diana 33 Aleutian island 34 Mop, as a deck 35 Israeli dance 36 "Psychic Warfare ..." author 38 Secure a ship 41 Baseball's "hot corner" 42 Happen again 47 Visitors  49 "The law-": 56 Arctic Dickens transports 51 Actor Nick of 57 Neat "The Deep" 58"-onthe 53 He was Jed Range" Clampett 59 Columnist 54 Keaton or Barrett Sawyer 60 Type of collar 55 Idol from 61 Rail in reverse Tupelo 62 K-P connection Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute).  -·  
MENUS  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Top round of beef Baked sole with rice dressing Manicotti Baked potatoes Broccoli spears and corn  Soups du Jour Sloppy Joe on Bun Baked Chicken and Noodles Gardent Vegetables Quiche Deli Bar  
CALVIN AND HOBBES  BILL WATTERSON  THE FAR SIDE  GARY LARSON  SPELUNKER  JAY HOSLER  





SO,TELL ME, Doc., IS THIS &oNNA HURl'? 
( 
IN THE. OVeR ALL 
(05 I"'\ IC. 5(. fl E:tl\£ 
OF 111\~U.S? NO, 
NOT RE.ALLY. 

"Idiot! ... You're standing on my foot!" 
~************************************************** 
* * * * 
~ An Evening with Maya Angelou The Exotic Birds 1f ~ E Thursday, December 6, 1990 Friday, December 7, 1990 ~ * s c * Stepan Center 7:30-9:30 P.M. *
* tepan enter 8:00 p . M . * * Admission: * ~ * Tickets: $2 $3 Student I $4 Other ~ * at the Lafortune Information Desk * 
* ¥ ic STUDENT UNION BOARD * *t *************************************************** 
....-.... 


Sports
page 20 
Notre Dame hosts Hoosiers 
Women's basketball team hopes to trounce 5-0 Indiana 
By RENE FERRAN perimeter shooters. They shoot in scoring (20. 7 ppg), as well as Sports Writer lots of three-pointers, but they averaging five assists and three also have some good post play­steals per game. Forward Krissi The Notre Dame women's ers. They are a solid basketball Davis (11.3 ppg, 7.0 rpg) and basketball team begins a four­team." Margaret Nowlin (8.0 ppg, 6.0 
game homestand tonight at The Hoosiers return four rpg) are doing an excellent job 
7:30 against intrastate rival starters from last year's 12-16 in the post. Indiana. squad. In their five victories, 
The Irish come into the game the Hoosiers have outscored The freshmen have been con­off a weekend trip to the West their opponents by over 15 tributing much quicker than Coast, losing to Pacific Ten points per contest. expected. Kristin Knapp is the powers UCLA 89-75 and Stan­fifth leading Irish scorer (6.3 ford 97-67. Zan Jeffries, a 5-11 senior, ppg) as well as almost four re­leads Indiana in scoring with bounds per game while playing "In Los Angeles, we didn't 15.0 points per game. Kris Me­only 12 minutes per contest, 
·-play well the whole game, but Grade, a freshman guard, is and Katura Jones (4.7 ppg, 4.3 playing on the road, we were quickly making her mark in rpg) began to assert herself on still close most of the way," said Bloomington, averaging 14.4 the recent road trip, scoring 10 Irish assistant coach Dave ppg. points and grabbing 10 re­Glass. "But down the stretch, bounds against Stanford. we made a couple of mistakes, Yet the Hoosiers are not an The biggest problem for the missed a couple of shots. We especially good rebounding Irish, according to Glass, is for did not play well the last six team. Indiana's opponents are all the players to play to their minutes to win the game. averaging over five more re­respective abilities in the same bounds a game than the game. "In the Stanford game, we Hoosiers. Rebounding will be a "One big thing as a team is played well, considering the key factor in tonight's game. that we need to worry about personnel and the environment "We need to rebound well, so Notre Dame," Glass said, "and 
... I thought our players came we can get out on the fast that our players play to their out and weren't intimidated." break," said Glass. level consistently. Everybody 
Now the Irish face a 5-0 needs to do what they're ca­Hoosier team fresh from a 70-While Indiana has not shot pable of every night. That's the 54 win over Kentucky this past the ball well this year -only biggest reason why we're only weekend. 42.2 percent -its pressure 1-2." 

"Indiana is a very good man defense has held oppo­Glass, however, has a positive team," Glass said. "They are nents to only 40.5 percent attitude going into tonight's very similar to the men's team. shooting. game. They play 95 percent man-to­The Irish, meanwhile, are led "We're not underdogs to In­man, and press in the back­by senior All-American candi­diana by any means," he said. The Observer/David Lee court. On offense, they run the date Karen Robinson. She leads "We just need to play like we're Coquese Washington (above) and the Notre Dame women's basketball passing game. They have good Notre Dame -and the MCC -capable of." team face the 5-0 Indiana Hoosiers tonight at the J.A.C.C. 

Irish miss Singleton, Williams 
B.J.Hawkins, Oliver Gibson may join after Orange Bowl 
By GREG GUFFEY for the rest of the team because 2-5 with a five-game losing Sports Editor of what those guys could do for streak. us. We just have to live with it." ••• 
Notre Dame senior captain Doctors will examine Notre Dame could get a boost Tim Singleton will miss at least Singleton again in six weeks. If if freshmen football players six weeks because of a disc no progress is made, surgery Oliver Gibson and B.J. Hawkins problem in his lower back. will be necessary and he could join the hoops squad after the 
be lost for the season. Orange Bowl. 
Singleton injured his back in the first half of Notre Dame's Singleton is averaging 4. 2 Phelps said that Irish football 98-90 loss to Kentucky last points and has 42 assists in six coach Lou Holtz has given the Saturday in the Big Four games. More importantly, he is pair permission to join the team Classic at Indianapolis. He also the leader of Notre Dame's in January, and he would missed the Irish loss to Butler offense, the key to beating welcome them to try out for the on Monday night. defensive pressure and one of squad. 
the best Irish players on the 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Tim Singleton, (above) shown here on the move in Notre Dame's loss to Indiana, is greatly missed by Digger Phelps and the Fighting Irish. 
The Irish have already lost defensive end. Gibson averaged 17.3 points sophomore Monty Williams, and 11 rebounds as a senior at who was diagnosed as having a "Having him out there is Romeoville High School in heart problem earlier this fall. another dimension that doesn't Romeoville, Ill. He was a two­
"Obviously we are saddened show up in the boxscore," time all-conference selection. by this," Notre Dame coach Phelps said. "It's something Hawkins helped lead his team Digger Phelps said. "But his we're really going to miss." at Potomac High School in health is the most important Things will not get easier for Woodbridge, Va, to an thing. With this situation -and the Irish, who play at eighth­undefeated district mark, and with Monty Williams -to lose ranked UCLA on Saturday in he was a two-time all-district two starting players is very sad Pauley Pavilion. Notre Dame is selection. 
Searching for sports excitement? Try hoops 
Now that the gridiron 
season is almost over and home football games have become a thing of the past, many Notre Dame fans are wondering how they can quench their weekly crav­ings for some type of sports entertainment. What will 


the Irish faithful do if they Chris Cooney cannot scream "We are Assistant Sports Editor N.D.!" and root their teams to victory at least once a week? Ah, yes, that's right. It's basketball season. Thank 
goodness we have one of the country's fastest rising squads, ready to meet their schedule's hefty challenges with an exciting, up-tempo playing style; 
experience and power underneath; and incredible overall chemistry. That's right, I'm not talking about the men's team. 
For too long the Notre Dame women's basketball program has gone largely unrecognized and undersupported. Tonight's game against Indiana is the perfect opportunity to change that. The Hoosiers are undefeated and SportsChannel will be on hand to film a tape-delayed national broadcast of the 7:30 
p.m. battle. 
Notre Dame is a good, potentially great, basketball team. Don't let their 1-2 record fool you. The squad just finished what was probably their toughest games this year, against two perennial NCAA-tournament participants, Stanford, the defending national champi­ons, and UCLA. 
The losing streak shouldn't last long. Mter going 23­6 last year, the Irish are priming themselves for an eventual NCAA bid. With six (count 'em, six) returning starters, Notre Dame has the talent and experience to win a lot of games this year. 
In addition, this year is the last chance hoops fans will have to watch Notre Dame's tremendous trio of seniors showcase their variety of talents. 
Leading the way is shooting guard Karen Robinson, one of the nation's most exciting players. Robinson has been called everything from "senior sparkplug" to last year's MCC Player of the Year, largely because of her ability to sink the crucial basket and single­handedly turn a game around. If you've never seen her, now is the time to catch the inspired, aggressive style of play that is averaging Robinson over 20 points per game this season. 
Forward Krissi Davis complements Robinson with tough performances underneath the basket. While a short frontcourt player at 5-9, Davis has grown in stature among her competitors, largely because of accurate shooting and consistent rebounding. Irish head coach Muffet McGraw has called Davis "the heart of the team" because of Davis' competitive nature and dedicated physical play. 
Rounding out the team captains is the versatile Sara Liebscher, who recently returned to the line-up 
see WOMEN I page 17 
L___________________________________________________________________________________________________ 



