

VOL. XXIII NO. 85 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
West Germany forms panel for reunification 
WEST BERLIN (AP) -A staff, said the "German unity" committee led by Chancellor committee began its work im­Helmut Kohl on Wednesday be­mediately after its formation gan laying the groundwork for Wednesday. German unification after the The panel will examine all the Cabinet agreed to seek immedi­steps necessary for unification, ate talks with East Germany on including creation of a mone­joining the two countries' cur­tary union to make the West rencies. German mark East Germany's 
Chief government spokesman currency. Unlike West German Hans Klein said Kohl would marks, East German marks are travel to Camp David on Feb. not convertible. 24 to discuss German unity The West German central with President Bush. Govern­bank would be responsible for ment sources also said Kohl monetary policy of both states and Foreign Minister Hans-Di­under the monetary union. etrieh Gensclwr will travel to According to Seiters, West Moscow on Saturday for talks Germany plans to discuss with Soviet President Mikhail ··ronfederative cooperation" Gorbaehev. with East Germany immediately 
Kohl advisor llorst Teltschik. after East Germany's lirst free speaking on West German tele­elections, which are set for vision ·said thP chancellor's March 18. nwssagP to Gorbachev will be Seiters said immediate talks 
"to make clear that the on monetary union are neces­(GI'rman) self-dl'tnrmination is sary because of the dramatic advancing because the people in speed of developments in East East Germany are deciding the Germany and the continuing process and the speed of splf­exodus of East Germans to detnrmination. and no one West Germany.else." With an average of 1,800 
SoviPt Foreign Minister Ed­East Germans leaving the coun­uard Shevardnadze suggested try daily, 66,000 have arrived in last week that that the issue be West Germany since the start 
put to an international referen­dum. see Germany/ page 6 Rudolf Seiters. Kohl's chief of 
Communist rulers give up monopoly on power 
MOSCOW (APl -The Com-by President Mikhail Gorbachev. "We cannot rule out the which calls the party the came as a surprise to many. munist Party that for decades lie packed the meeting of the emergence of new parties," "leading and guiding" force in After leaving the Central swore its red tide would cover 249-member body with more Politburo member Vitaly Soviet society. Committee meeting to greet the globe bowed to a different than 700 other officials, many Vorotnikov said in remarks re-Yeltsin favored a more radi-U.S. Secretary of State James revolution Wednesday and of them progressives who took ported by the official Tass news cal program that demanded a Baker, Foreign Minister Eduard agreed to allow alternative the floor to demand radical agency. "But we Communists virtual apology by the party for Shevardnadze told reporters political parties to compete for reform. are not going to surrender our decades of totalitarianism. the decision by the party's control of the Soviet Union. In the end, the guests also positions. Just as any party in Gorbachev has been strug-policy-making body "moves us 
The decision amounts to an were allowed to vote on the new the world, we shall be waging a gling for nearly five years to closer to a humane and acknowledgment that new party platform, said Svyatoslav struggle for our rights." transform the Soviet Union democratic society." political forces have taken root Fyodorov, a famed eye surgeon Vorotnikov added that the from a repressive "Third World The Soviets follow the lead and that it is no longer possible and one of the participants. He party will negotiate with any nation with missiles," as some set by their comrades in East-or desirable to crush them with spoke in an interview on Red political force that stands for Westerners have termed it, to a ern Europe, where one by one, the repressive tactics of the Square during a break in the democracy and rejects violence. modern democracy. Communist parties have bowed past, which ranged from mass closed-door meeting. "We shall speak not only with But it was not until three to democratic pressure and re­murders under dictator Josef "Article 6 will no longer be, Communists but with the whole weeks ago in Lithuania that he linquished their legal guarantee Stalin to the dissident arrests there will be a multiparty sys-people," he was quoted as dropped his long-standing op-of political control. preferred by Leonid Brezhnev. tern. There will be a normal telling visiting parliamentarians position to alternative political For three days, Gorbachev's 
The decision by the party's democracy," Fyodorov said, re-from Brazil. parties. So his proposal Mon-draft platform was strongly Central Committee to give up ferring to the article in the So-Fyodorov said that only mav-day for Communists to criticized from both right and the Communists' constitutional viet Constitution that guaran-erick Communist Boris Yeltsin "struggle for the role of ruling monopoly on power was a tri-tees the Communists a leading voted against the platform that party" rather than being guar­
see Soviet/ page 6umph of political role. called for abolition of Article 6, anteed such supremacy by law
• Panel gives AIDS talk on campus 
By PAUL PEARSON has the disease," Clausen said. Jennifer Thoene, a senior pre­News Writer Fran Holdeman, director of professional major who worked Health Services for the South with AIDS patients in Seattle AIDS patients need to be Bend Parents-Teachers Associ­after her sophomore year, treated with compassion and ation, encouraged abstinence talked about James, an AIDS not with judgement, a six­or long-term monogamous re­patient she met in Seattle. 
member discussion panel said lationships among young peo­Thoene said that James some­Wednesday night at ple. "AIDS is spread by behav­times "had the feeling that no Theodore's. ior," she said. one wanted to touch him or be 
The discussion, sponsored by Father Stephen Newton, di­near him." the Minority Pre-Professional rector of special projects for Thoene also talked about the Club, focused on the general . Campus Ministry, cor..,~emned time she called the Seattle NO 
public's treatment of Acquired the idea that AIDS is divine Alumni Association to talk Immune Deficiency Syndrome punishment for homos mality. about her work with AIDS pa­and of the people who are get­He called this uought tients. According to Thoene, the ting it. "absurd," saying that a disease person she talked to said "'I Among the participants was is never a judgement. can't believe you're working 
Dr. Robert Clausen, a biological, "To say AIDS is God's wrath with AIDS patients. It's their sciences professor who has on any part of society is to deny own fault that they have it treated AIDS patients. Clausen that our God is a god of com­anyway."' commented on the new way passion," Newton said. Commenting on her experi­doctors are handling people Responding to the possibility ence with James, Thoene said "I who test positive for the HIV of selling condoms on campus' learned more from him than 
virus, which causes AIDS. in order to stop the spread of from any other person in my 
"We are no longer waiting AIDS, Newton said "I am not life." until the patient has AIDS....We aware that the university pro­start treating before a person hibits it." see AIDS/ page 6 

The Observer/ Colin McAteer 
Father Stephen Newton speaks at the AIDS panel discussion at Theodore's Wednesday night. 
~--~------------~------------~------------------~------------.---------------------------~--------------------------------------------­
page 2 

PO. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's Staff:  
5y8elma Molly Schwartz Cesar Capella  News Janice O'leary Joe Moody  Spor1s Molloy Mahoney Production  
Buslf..a liz Panzica Caroline Clarke Matt  Accent Shonda Wilson Terri Walsh AdDM91  Greg Tice Andy Morrow VIBwpoint Kevin Reisch  
Graphics Bradford Boehm  Val Poletto lisa Gunsorek Ryan Roberts  Katie Foster  
Jeanne Naylor  
Quinn Satepauhoodle  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 
The Observer Thursday, February 8, 1990 
Yesterday's High: 39 Yesterday's Low: 34 Nation's High: 80 (Miami, FL and Presidio, TX) Nation's Low: 0 (Houlton, ME and McCall, ID) 
Forecast: 
Mostly cloudy and very mild today. Highs around 50. Cloudy tonight with a 50 percent chance of light rain. Lows in the upper 30s. Mostly cloudy and cooler Friday. Temperature near steady in the upper 30s. 


WORLD 
Erich Honecker was sometimes generous enough to Nelson Mandela endured harsh treatment for buy his East Germans bananas for Christmas, but prose­many years and remains a prisoner. but now he lives in a cutors say the former Communist leader ran a thoroughly large, comfortable home and meets government ministers corrupt state where officials even stooped to stealing to discuss the end of white rule. Mandela, oftfln described money from private mail. The allegations, the most thor­as the world's most famous prisoner, occupies a white ough to date of corruption under Honecker's rule, were ranch-style house with a swimming pool at the Victor made Wednesday by East Germany's deputy chief prose­Verster Prison. cutor, Lothar Reuter. 
NATIONAL 
A Santa Monica, Calif. police officer aiming for a dog that had taken after her partner instead shot the officer in both legs, authorities said. The officers were in­vestigating a burglar alarm at a horne Monday afternoon when they were attacked in the back yard. Officer Laverne Davis, 29, said she was shooting at a mixed collie shep­herd and a blaek Labrador retriever when she mistakenly hit Sgt. Larry Anderson, authorities said. 
Lawmakers of both parties joined by the head of the Episcopal Church and Coretta Scott King on Wednes­day unveiled civil rights legislation designed to reverse re­cent Supreme Court rulings and help minorities and women fight job bias. The bill launches a counterattack by congressional liberals and civil rights activists against a series of Supreme Court rulings last year. 
State Sen. Jim West proposed marriage to his girlfriend Wednesday from the Washington State Sen­ate floor. She said yes, but he knew she would. West wrote a note to Ginger Marshall, who was watching from the gallery. lie told her he planned to rise on the Senate floor and ask for her hand but, like all politicians, he wasn't about to ask the question until he knew the an­swer. Marshall read West's note and nodded yes bPI'ore he rose to inform his colleagues that he had just proposed to Marshall. 
The case of a 4-year-old boy who became severely disabled after inhaling mercury from paint in his home has triggered an urgent federal investigation to find out if similar cases· are oecurring elsewhern, officials said Wednesday. The Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta is considering a recommendation to ban the use of mereury in paints to prevent bacterial growth and mildew. 
OF INTEREST 
Tax help for foreign students will be offered, be­The Charity Ball Committee will be having an or­ginning February 12 in filling out tax forms. Come to the ganizational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Sorin Hoom International Student Office, 205 LaFortune, to sign up of LaFortune. Anyone interested in being on the 1990 
for an appointment. 
INDIANA 
A man, who has admitted publicly he killed two of his wives and was an accomplice in the murder of a third, is scheduled for his first parole board hearing at the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City. Edmund Cody, 69, who has been married to at least five women who wound up in the morgue or disappeared, will go before the board on Thursday. Cody, a former Indianapolis auto salvage yard em­ployee, has been in prison since 1970 serving a life sentence for the death of William Love, 55, who was shot at point-blank range outside an Indianapolis restaurant on March 15, 1970. 
A woman killed her former fiance 
when she grabbed his gun after he invaded her townhouse, raped her, stabbed her and slashed her throat, police said. Peter Helmschrott Sr., 39, a former South Bend, Ind., man who owned a nightclub in the West Palm Beach, Fla. area, died of a gunshot wound to the chest, Palm Beach County medical examiner's officials said. 
committee is welcome. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Closings for February 7, 1990 
Volume in shares 
186.71 Million 
NYSE Index 184.31 1}1.98 S&P Composite 333.75 -o 4.09 Dow Jones Industrials 2640.09 1}38.78 
Precious Metals Gold -<! $3.50 to $418.101 oz. 
Silver-of} .5¢ to $5.3361 oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On February 8: 
e In 1587: Mary, Queen of Scots was beheaded at Fother­inghay Castle in England after she was implicated in a plot to murder her cousin, Queen Eliz­abeth I. e In 1837: For the only time in history, the U.S. Senate 
chose the vice president of the United States, selecting Richard Mentor Johnson aft.er no can­didate received a majority of electoral votes. e In 1922: President Harding had a radio installed in the White House. 
e In 1968: Three college stu­dents were killed in a con­frontation with highway pa­trolmen in Orangeburg, S. C., 
during  a  civil  rights  protest  
against  a  whites-only  bowling  
alley.  

-----------~--~---­
The Observer page 3 
Political prisoners to be released 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) made the amnesty proposal last 1,984 political prisoners last -The Sandinista-dominated week and the National Assem-April, but the Permanent National Assembly on Wednes-bly rubber-stamped it Wednes-Commission on Human Rights, day approved amnesty for more day with a 76-4 vote. an independent group, claims than 1,000 political prisoners, The amnesty covers 1,189 at least 4,000 more are held in pre-empting a key opposition people, most of them accused prisons and jails nationwide. pledge less than three weeks of taking part in the U.S.-Ortega, who has taken pains before elections. backed Contra insurgency. during the campaign to mend 
The Sandinista party pre-About 95 are already out of his often fractious relationship dieted it will win the Feb. 25 prison and under house arrest with the Roman Catholic elections by a landslide and or restricted by conditional lib-Church, said he decided to ask that the United States, unable erties. for the amnesty at the urging to ignore the results, will move The amnesty also covers 39 of Cardinal Miguel Obando Y to normalize relations with So-ex-officers of the hated Na-Bravo, the Roman Catholic viet-backed Nicaragua. tiona! Guard that defended archbishop of Nicaragua. 
"A landslide victory will push Anastasio Somoza's rightist But while the article's main normalization with the United dictatorship, which the Sandin-thrust was one of reconciliation States," read the headline on a istas overthrew in 1979. with the United States -which front-page story about the elec-The prisoners are expected to supports the Contra rebels and tions in the Sandinista newspa-be released Friday and Satur-imposed economic sanctions ­per Barricada. day, said Sandinista lawmaker it also suggested. the .military 
President Daniel Ortega, Danilo Aguirre. may not obey a v1ctonous op-seeking another six-year term, The government also freed position. 
~rt!2E!~~A~~g ~~~~r~t '~~ort~J~~~gairiJe~~~~~:Iso 
dis-

News Writer Board member Ann Clark sug-cussed. On Feb. 27, the wellness 
gested that classes and halls program will sponsor a nonal­

"Christmas in April" was dis­try to use this event as a service coholic bar in addition to the cussed at Saint Mary's student project. usual Club Tuesday activities. government meeting Wednesday There will also be an upcom-All juniors are also reminded night. ing art exhibit for all Saint that there is a Student Regent 
The annual event, taking Mary's students. Anyone who is position available for next year. place on April 7, is a one-day interested in displaying her The person who is chosen work session, in which volun­artwork, especially art majors would serve as a representative teers, mainly from Notre Dame or minors, should attend a for the student body when deci­and Saint Mary's, work on ren­meeting on Friday, Feb. 9, at sions about more significant ovations and repairs on the 3:15 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. topics are-discussed. She homes of local needy, elderly, The exhibit will be taking place would also serve as a Board of or handicapped residents. in Moreau Hall. Governance member. Any junior 
Last year, 43 homes were "Pub Tuesday," an extension can nominate herself or an­worked on but, this year, the of the weekly Club Tuesday in other junior. 
Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m. Friday, February 9. 
News Editor  Advertising Manager  
Sports Editor  Ad Design Manager  
Accent Editor  Production Manager  
Viewpoint Editor  OTSManager  
Saint Mary's Editor  Controller  
Photo Editor  Art Director  
Systems Manager  

A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to A1ison Cocks by 2 p.m. Monday, February 12. 


Recruiting for service 
The Observer/ Colin McAteer 
Peace Corps representatives set up their display in the Hesburgh 
Library this week. 
D-alumnus,Bra-y appears in new television series 
Special to The Observer 
men from an enemy stronghold. 
In the course of the three 
Major General Patrick Brady, flights, Brady's helicopters re­a Notre Dame alumnus and ceived some 400 rounds of Congressional Medal of Honor hostile fire. winner, is the subject of the Brady, earned his MBA de­first profile in the new televi­gree from Notre Dame in 1972, sion series "Heroes," appearing was the recipient of this year's Thursday, Feb. 8 at 8 p.m. EST Father William Corby Award, on the Arts and Entertainment presented annually by the Notre cable network. Dame Alumni-Association to 
The program, an examination graduates with exceptional of the nature of heroism and records in the armed forces. the characters of those who The Corby Award commemo­perform heroic acts, features rates the heroism of a Holy Brady recalling his actions in Cross priest, later to be Notre Vietnam in January 1968, when Dame's president, who was he flew three helicopter mis­cited for his actions as chaplain sions in three different craft to the Union Army's Irish Bri­through thick fog and heavy gade during the battle of Get­fire to evacu~te 51 wounded tysburg. 
Grad students you·re missing lunch ... 
Tonite -cwa cup ttite 9 -Z ttew Price 
Friday Lunch ttoon -z croissants. subs. burgers. pizza. fries. etc. OH! and bclverages too ... 
Friday tlite St. Paul and the Martyrs 
Wanna tteck!!! 
Saturday Misfits in Disguise 
(10 -11) 

page 4 The Observer Thursday, February 8, 1990 




Peace Corps recruits students on Notre Dame campus 
By MIKE TRUPPA 
News Writer 
Peace Corps representatives arc on campus today, looking for students interested in "a strong commitment," according to Corps recruiter, Richard Stettner. 
Notrc Dame is one of the Peace Corps' prime recruiting grounds , said Stettner, a rep­resentative from the Corps' Chicago office, who recruits in Indiana and Illinois. lie at­tributes the University's better­than-average application rate to the many community-service programs on campus. "Students here arc very cultur­ally aware," he said. 
Peace Corps work requires special devotion, Stettner noted, speaking from the the Corps' information desk in the llesburgh Library lobby. "We don't sell Ithe programI." said Stettner, "because it's a 27 month commitment." 
"It can be a very frustrating experience any time you're away from your support sys­tem," Stettner said of the Corps, whieh operates overseas. lie said recruits may face difficulties with foreign lan­guages and diets. 
Yet he also called the Corps a rewarding experience. "We try to encourage people who con­sider it. It's hard to explain the satisfaction [of corps work]." said Stettner, who served the Corps as a business consultant in Botswana, Africa in 1985-86. Claiming college "is the time for a wonderful learning expe­rience," Stettner said the chance to explore other cul­tures through the Corps has "a very positive effect on young people." 
The Corps has established programs in over 60 nations to "promote world peace and friendship," according to its of­ficial literature, and operates mostly in the Third World, though new English-teaching programs have been formed in Eastern Europe. 

Most Corps positions require a four-year college degree with a minimum grade-point-aver­age of 2.5 on a 4.0 seale. The Corps takes students specializ­ing in agriculture, forestry, ed­ucation, engineering, business, and other fields, known in the Corps as, "Scarce Skills." Lib­eral Arts students, known as Generalists," are desirable especially if they have exhibited leadership and organizational skills in campus activities. Background in community ser­vice, foreign studies, foreign language, or any "searee skill" area is particularly advanta­geous ·to Corps applicants, 
Stettner said. 

Recruiters are "anxious for minorities," Stettner said, al­luding to the Corps' goal to "represent a cross section of the United States wherever we go." 
The Corps requires candi­dates to complete a written ap­plication and an interview. Ac­ceptable candidates are then nominated may wait from six to nine months before ap­pointment to a site, Stettner said. 
According to Corps recruiter, Dale Meyer, 1989 saw 101 Notre Dame applicants with 33 nominations and some still pending. 


New colon cancer treatment might save lives 
BOSTON (AP)-About 5,000 

people with advanced operable 
colon eaneer could be saved 
each year by treatment with a 
medicine used to de-worm farm 
animals, a researcher says. 
About one-third of newly di­agnosed patients with this stage of disease have been put on the drug since its benefits were announced by the Na­tional Cancer Institute last fall. 
A detailed report on the treatment is being published in Thursday's New England Jour­nal of Medicine, and doctors said they hoped this informa­tion will convince physicians who are still skeptical. 
"With publication in a presti­gious journal, they will review this information and dedde it is worth trying," predicted Dr. Michael Friedman, chief of the cancer institute's therapy eval­uation program. 
The treatment, which com­bines the veterinary drug le­vamisole and the standard cancer medicine fluorouracil, is 
Iceberg Debates 
The following are the re­sults of Hound Two of the Iceberg Debates held Wednesday night: 
Aff at Grace I 2 Neg Flanner I 0 
Aft at Knott 0 Neg Pangborn 2 
Aft at Breen-Phillips 2 

Neg  Off-Campus II  0  
Aff Neg  at Farley Grace II  0 2  
Aff Neg  at Cavanaugh Pasquerilla East  1  
Aff Neg  at Stanford Pasquerilla West  0 2  
Aff Neg  at Lyons Morrissey  2 0  
Aff Neg  at St. Edwards Siegfried  2 0  

All  at Keenan  2  
Neg  Lewis  0  
All  at Flanner II  
Neg  Walsh  
All  at Badin  1  
Neg  Off-Campus I  1  
All  atSorin  2  
Neg  Holy Cross  0  
All  atAiumni 2  
Neg  Howard  0  
All  at Carroll  2  
Neg  Dillon  0  
All  atZahm  0  
Neg  Fisher  2  



the first chemotherapy ap­proach shown to help people with the most advanced form of colon eaneer that can be re­moved surgically. 
The therapy was tested on 1,296 colon cancer patients in a study directed by Dr. Charles Moertel of the Mayo Clinic. Over three years, the treatment re­duced cancer recurrence by 41 percent, and it lowered the death rate by one-third. 
In October, the cancer insti­tute wrote letters to about 35,000 doctors outlining the findings of this and a smaller, earlier study that was pub­lished in the Journal of Clinical Oncology. 
Levamisole is not commer­cially available in the United States for human use. However, since May the cancer institute has distributed it without cost to physicians who wanted to use it for colon cancer. 
Moertel said that about one­third of potential patients are getting it this way. Another 


Cinema at the Snlte 
1 0 7 3 0 945 
one-third with advanced opera-it for patients, while others ble colon cancer are enrolled in were reluctant to adopt the experimental drug studies, and therapy until they saw detailed some of them are also receiving results. levamisole as well as other 'The data in this large trial medicines. are just overwhelmingly con-
Moertel said some doctors vincing," he said. are probably not using the medicine because of the extra Last week, the Oncologic paper work necessary to obtain Drugs Advisory Committee of the U.S. Food and Drug Admin­istration unanimously recom­mended that Janssen Pharrna­eeutical Inc. be given permis­sion to sell the medicine for routine usc. Eva Kemper, an FDA spokeswoman. said Wednesday that final approval should eome within a month or so. 

9:30 PM this Thursday at 

NIGHTCLUB 

l~V[E FROM THE DR. DEMENTO SHOW 



{fb,/ome[)aAvE RUDOLF 

.1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111. 
== 
== 
== 
~ 
== 
== 
= = 
= 
= 
= 
-
~ 

LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS = 
== 
= 
= 
= 
= 
= = 
Let the Fun & Games Sweep You Away! 
== 
Friday, February 9 at the JACC = Sponsored by NVA Proceeds to Benefit the St. Joseph County Specilll Olympics = 
..___FR__Av_=__'_=_ __.. l11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111il 
.---------· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -·-·s:·o s~ -· -Ne-et)_s.-·vo-o·r-· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· i
-~ 
• •.&rJ 
~~...v-· 
( 
)
\ 
~~ 
I 
~ 
\. 
~ 
~~) 
~ } , 1t ~ 
.. ,~ ..~ :v-..~..~-·-or.-. ~...,)~f ~J 

~~l·

~=--.r;,.:t!,. 
~· 
~~~~~..t1" 
I 

We need your ideas for Campus Entertainment. Musical Entertainment. ~. Special Events. Performing Arts. . Services. Publicity. and Relations. ~ 
i Find out how you can make things ~ 
~~~~~he S.U.B. office, 2nd floor l Lafortune • ;~ 6-7pm Thursday. February 8th. d Refreshments provided. :~ 
ITIIOINT 11101001 IQr.AO I ~ 
-.... -· -----· •• ---· -· -· -· -----· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· ---· -----· -------· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -.J 
Thursday, February 8, 1990 
Romanian leader dies 
BUCHAREST, Romania (AP) -Army Col. Petre Moraru, who was awaiting trial on charges of complicity in genocide, committed suicide in his Timisoara prison cell, state television reported Wednesday. 
Moraru was scheduled to tes­tify in court next week regard­ing his alleged role in the dese­cration of corpses following the violence in Timisoara, the west­ern Romanian city where the revolution began last December that eventually toppled dictator Nicolae Ceausescu. 
The newspaper Romania Lib­era reported corpses were re­moved from a hospital in Timisoara on Dec. 18 and cre­mated, in an alleged effort to eliminate evidence of atrocities committed against residents. 
Other members of the Ceaus­nscu regime have testified dur­ing trials that the Communist dictator ordered the army to shoot demonstrators in Timisoara. 
The 10-2 DANCE PARTY! 
a

This and every ~:vz 
SATURDAY NIGHT at... 
*Full Color Reproduction of the Works of over 100 Master Artists! *Fantastic Low Prices: Most Large Prints are 3 for only $151 *Wide Variety of Photographs ... 
Beautiful Landscapes to High Tech., etc. *This is Your Last Opportunity to 
DECORATE INEXPENSIVELY! 
------------~-----------------------~ --------------------------~ 

The art print sale is being on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center until Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 a.m. 
page 5 

Stamp cost may go up 
WASHINGTON (AP) -It looks as if it'll cost a nickel more to mail a letter next year. 
The increase, which would be the first since 1988 and the largest ever, will be before the Postal Service Board of Gover­nors when it meets March 6. If things follow their normal course, rates would go up in Feb. 1991 -11 months after the process begins. 
There have been proposals to raise the first-class rate to 28 cents to 32 cents for the first ounce, but Postmaster General Anthony 
Frank sees 30 cents as the most likely. And he doesn't expect the raise to play well. 

Noting that a five-cent in­crease would be a 20 percent raise, substantially above the 14 percent he projected that consumer prices will have risen from 1988 to 1991, Frank said recently that he was "committed to paying back to the American people that six percent" difference. 
To do that, he has pledged to keep future increases below the inflation rate and said Tuesday that "we may very well be able to hold increases in rates after the 1991 adjustments to one more increase in the balance of this century." 
That, he told the Postal Ser­vice board, "would be no small achievement." 
featuring... BAR-B-QUE Jamaican/American Cuisine 

Assuming the Postal Service board begins the process of raising rates for all classes of mail, the independent Postal Rate Commission will then ask for comment -that should produce tons of reports and appeals from various interest groups -and hold lengthy hearings before making its rec­ommendation. 
It will then be up to the Postal Service board to put the new rate into effect. Only once since the rate commission was cre­ated in 1971 has it proposed a lower increase than the board had asked for. In that case, the board overruled the recommen­dation and did what it had pro­posed. 
While public attention focuses on the cost of sending a first­class letter, the real battles oc­cur over second-and third­class charges. 
Advertising firms, charities and publishers of magazines and newspapers inundate the rate commission with pleas to hold down their portions of the overall rate hike. 
Although the Postal Service managed to post a $404 million surplus in the last three months of 1989, the agency expects a record $1.6 billion deficit for the fiscal year that will end Sept. 30. The outcome of con­tract negotiations this summer could make the deficit even worse. 
RIBS RIB TIPS CHICKEN 

Location: Corner of Main & Fifth Niles, Ml 683-3317 

EAT-IN/Carry Out/FREE delivery Open 4pm daily -closed Monday comer of Fir & St. Road 23 277-8460 

~Mrron@rr® 
pick up your JPW registration packets Monday Feb.12 & Tuesday Feb.13 2-10 p.m. in the Dooley Room located on the 1st floor of LaFortune 
this packet includes your tickets and a calendar of events for the weekend 
Questions? call 239-6028 Mon-Thurs 7-9p.m. or Steve x3131 


~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----­
a e 6 The Observer Thursday, Februar 8, 1990 
federate cooperation between tary union, financial questions,
the two states in Germany with 

economic reforms, energy and a view to their growing to­environment, infrastructure in




Germany 

SECURITY BEAT
continued from page 1 
gether further." 

East Germany, employment and "Decisions will be required social welfare systems, legal 
MONDAY, FEB. 5 from the Stanford storage room.
of the year, adding to more even before then," Klein added. questions, and foreign and se­
7:17 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resi­The theft occurred between 2/1 and
than 340,000 who resettled "The question of German unity curity policy matters. 
dent reported the theft of his 2/6. The victim's loss is estimated 
across the border in 1989. has become a dominant theme. 
Economics Minister Helmut 
locked bicycle from the bike rack at $700. 
The departure of skilled All political forces (in East Haussmann said that after 
at Morrissey. His loss is estimated 10:25 p.m. Notre Dame Police re­
workers, along with strikes and Germany) are now committed East Germany's elections, the 
to be $150. covered an automobile that had 
8:50 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited been stolen from a residence in
absenteeism, are driving East to this objective." two nations would begin im­
a South Bend resident for No Oper­South Bend. The car was aban­ators License When Required. doned in a field along Dorr Road.
Germany's economy to the Klein said the special commit­mediate discussions on the eco­
brink of collapse, and the influx tee set up to study unification nomic reforms necessary in 
10:40 p.m. A resident of Stanford 11 :26 p.m. An off campus student 
into West Germany is straining questions includes Cabinet min­East Germany. 
Hall reported the theft of his wallet reported the theft of his back pack
the country's social services. isters responsible for the fol­Haussmann said a "German­
and contents from his coat. The and contents from outside the
Klein told reporters in Bonn lowing areas: Foreign Affairs, German economic miracle" like 
victim left his coat outside one of game room in LaFortune. The theft 
the government would start Interior, Justice, Finance, Eco­the one that made West Ger­
the Racquetball courts in the occurred sometime between 5 and 
talks with the new East German nomics, Education and Labor. many wealthy is possible as the 
JACC. The theft occurred between 5:30p.m., and his loss is estimated 
government immediately after He said the committee would two countries draw closer to­
9 and 10:20 p.m. to be $130.00. 
the March 18 elections "on con-work on formation of a mone-gether. 
TUESDAY, FEB. 6 WEDNESDAY, FEB. 7
which "we have attached 

10:34 a.m. Notre Dame Police 4:13a.m. While patrolling the D-1
morality."


AIDS Soviet 
were called to the scene of a two lot, Notre Dame Security spotted a continued from page 1 
car accident on Old Juniper Road. vehicle which had been vandalized. 
Warren gave a projection continued from page 1 

One of the parties was ticketed for Unknown person(s) had stolen the
Joy Whitifield, a registered that "by June of 1990, everyone 
Expired License Plate. four tires from the vehicle and left it 
nurse from South Bend, said in Indiana will know someone 
12:02 p.m. A Pasquerilla West sitting on its hubs.
that she learned a lot from her who is HIV positive or who has left at the Kremlin meeting. 
resident reported the theft of her 4:15a.m. On routine patrol of the 
experience with AIDS. Her AIDS." He also gave the exam­Some of the speeches were re­
coin purse and contents from out­D-2 lot, Notre Dame Security lo­
younger brother, Jimmy, died ple of a set of 11-year-oid twins leased by Tass, and partici­
side a racquetball court in the cated a vehicle which had been 
of AIDS. "I felt very guilty being who have allegedly been given pants also described the strug­
JACC. The theft occurred between vandalized. Unknown person(s) 
9 and 10:30 p.m. on 2/5. had attempted to steal the stereo
stuck here (in South Bend) AIDS through sexual contact gle in interviews with Western 
1 p.m. A resident of Stanford Hall and in the process caused severe reported the theft of his locked bike damage. 
when he died (in San Fran­with their father. reporters. 
cisco)." she said. 

Whitifield also talked about what happened to her when she told people about her brother's diagnosis, saying that "I I~ learned very quickly to keep II Jimmy's diagnosis to myself." "Heeyy! ~: 
Because of Jimmy's death, 
I~
Whitifield said, "I can stand It's myhere and tell you that I am not :-: afraid of AIDS." She said that birthday!"AIDS is "a vicious disease, and you can get it from being stupid." 
~ 
The final member of the panel to speak was Hev. Howard Warren, a Presbyterain minis­Happy zznd Bruce! ~ ter who works at Damien Cen­ter, a center for AIDS patients 
Love, ~~: 
in Indianapolis. Warren, who 
Jackie, Mike, i1
tested positive for the lilY virus two years ago, called AIDS "a and friends ::: disease with a difference," be­._.. ..... ,._. ..... AJ._......,._.._,...........................•...,......-................1 cause it is the o illness to 

--~-·....-----~---~---·-----------~--~---.., 





Business 
Thursday, February 8, 1990 Ji!age 7 
Travels bring investment options 
By PATRICK NINNEMAN Business Writer 
Frank Potenziani an<i Fred Botek, private investment part­ners, spoke to the Notre Dame Council on Business Develop­ment Saturday night at the Morris Inn. Guests were invited from outside the Council, in­cluding members of the Insti­tute for International Peace Studies and the Japan Club. 
Potenziani and Botek spoke on their recent travels through Europe, which including re­searching possible investment opporttinitifls, and establishing contacts for ND overseas in­ternships. They met with busi­nesspeople in fivn countries ­Britain, France, Germany, Spain and Switzerland. 
Potenziani and Botek's first contact was an official with the British American Tobacco Company in London. The offi­cial mentiorlf'd Margaret Thatcher's reluctance to fully commit Britain to the E.C.C. for fear of losing British financial sovereignty. E.E.C. proposals include a common European currency. something Thatcher has publicly denounced. 
The official said much of the 1992 unification talk is propa­ganda designed to attract American and Japanese in­vestors. Both America and Japan are fearful of being shut 
out of the Market in 1992, and have consequently stepped up direct investment in E.E.C. countries. The official noted that movement towards unifi­cation will be slow if Britain's viewpoint prevails. 
From meetings with a Ger­man official with Deutsche Bundesbank in Frankfurt, Potenziani said, Germany's view was similar to Britain's. Potenziani said, the recent events in Eastern Europe opened numerous options for German investment. Much of the money now flowing towards lesser developed countries in the E.E.C. will be redirected to­wards Germany's Eastern 
neighbors. 
When Potenziani and Botek 
visited Paris, a Peat Marwick 
International representative 
gave them a different picture 
for 1992. France understands 
the benefits an open market 
would have for their products. 
Strong French industries, such 
as electronics and nuclear en­
ergy technology, could be ex­
ported more easily with the re­
moval of barriers. 
Spain has experienced explo­
sive economic growth in the 
past five years, largely a result 
of foreign invest­
ment,Potenziani said. A Peat 
Marwick official in Madrid said 
Spanish businesspeople are ex­
cited about the opportunities in 
the Common Market. Low worker wages make Spain an attractive manufacturing center 
Once a Stud, Always a Stud? 
Happy 21st 
Love, 
Mac, Chet & Larry

Sean M. Brown 
for the entire E.E.C. The Span­ish tourist industry is booming, as more Europeans learn of Spain's cheap currency and hot sun. 
A Swiss government official in Geneva was typically neutral, Botek said. Switzerland refuses to join the E.E.C., for the coun­try views the independence of its financial institutions as cru­cial to economic growth. Whether the rest of Europe uni­fies means little to Swiss offi­cials, said Botek, for the coun­try will remain a leader in in­ternational banking. 
Potenziani wrapped up Sat­urday's discussion with some personal thoughts on 1992. He saw the reluctance of Germany and Britain as the greatest im­pediment to removing trade barriers and coordinating fi­nancial policies by 1992. He suggested that the Common Market may form without par­
ticipation from either of these countries. 
The ND Council on Business Development is a student run organization established in 1988. The Council promotes real world experience and strong ethical values for busi­ness school students. Council Vice President Patrick Bero ex­pressed dismay with the nar­row focus of business classes on abstract theory, and the small emphasis on practical ideas. 


ATTENTION JUNIORS 
The Observer is currently seeking an enthusiastic student to fill the following position: 
Business Manager 
• 
Oversee production of a newspaper. 

• 
Work with these seven departments: Advertising, Circulation, Business, Production, Systems, Observer Typesetting, and Ad Design 

• 
Will be responsible for planning and implementing a balanced budget for the student newspaper. 

• 
Need to be a motivator, planner, and trouble shooter. 

• 
No previous newspaper publishing experience necessary. 


A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m. Friday, February 9. For further information about the benefits of this position, contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471. 

o~====================================~o 
Treasury says tax didn't hurt investment WASHINGTON (AP) -without the act, which also There is no clear evidence ended a special credit for in­that the 1986 tax overhaul, vestment while reducing the which killed a special break corporate tax rate from 46 for capital gains, reduced percent to 34 percent. Or, it the level of investment in the may be too soon to judge, United States, the Treasury Gideon said. Department told Congress "In any case, there is no on Wednesday. clear evidence that the 1986 President Bush has made act affected the level of in­restoration of the capital vestment," Gideon said. gains break a major initia­Nevertheless, Gideon and tive of his administration, Internal Revenue Service contending it's necessary to Commissioner Fred Goldberg increase investment. renewed the administration's At a House Ways and plea for cutting capital gains Means Committee hearing on taxes. the impact of the 1986 law, "In order to remain com­Kenneth Gideon, assistant petitive, incentives for sav­secretary of the treasury for ings and investment must be tax policy, said skeptics had improved," Gideon said. predicted investment would Committee Chairman Dan decline and that growth of Rostenkowski, D-Ill., said key industries would be the administration was of­stymied. fering the wrong solution. "The predicted short-run "Until the deficit can b•e decrease in aggregate significantty reduced, no ta){ equipment investment has system crafted by Congres:sapparently failed to mate­will cure the economic ills of rialize," Gideon said. "Such this country, while the pas­investment has actually ex­sage of special tax breaks perienced a post-1986-act will only create more eco­surge as a result of technol­nomic distortions," he said. ogy-driven increases and ex­Capital gains, profits from penditures on office, comput­the sale of stock and other ing and accounting machin­investments, are fully taxed ery, and an increased growth at the same rates applying to in output demanded by other wages and other income. sectors of the economy." Bush has proposed exempt­It could be that investment ing up to 30 percent of gains might have been higher from taxation.  



Alumn1-Senior CLUB Bartender Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor La Fortune. 
* Deadline for applications is March 7th 

TOWNHOUSES 



For Rent 
3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer &Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 


232-8256 
~~~ ~-------~-­

Viewpoint 

Thursday, February 8, 1990
page 8 
The Obserxer __ 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regrs Coccra Arch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager .Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blasr Systems Mgr Bernard Brennrnkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Barley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstrne Grll Controller Anne Lrndner 
The Observer rs the •ndependent newspaper published by the students of the Unrversi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sarnt Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­rcres of the admrnrstratron of erther rnstrtutron The news •s reported as accurately and ob­J9Ctrvely as possrble Unsrgned edrtorrals represent the oprnron of the majorrty of the followrng Edrtor-rn-Chref Managrng Edrtor. Executrve News Editor. Vrewpornt Edrtor. Sports Edrtor. Accent Edrtor Photo Edrtor. Sarnt Mary's Edrtor Commentanes. letters. and the lnsrde Column present the v•ews of therr authors Column space rs avarlable to all members of the commun•ty and the free expressron of varyrng oprnrons on campus, through letters. rs encouraged 
EDITORIAL 
ND, NBC win; CFA, ABC lose 
Notre Dame and NBC agreed to an unprecedented deal whereby all Notre Dame home football games will be televised by NBC, for a period of five years beginning with the 1991 season. 
The contract came about as a result of Notre Dame's dissatisfaction with the College Football Association's proposed television contract with ABC and ESPN, which would not afford Notre Dame the national exposure it deemed necessary to keep its national audience satiated with Notre Dame footbalL 
It is also a matter of money. Notre Dame-and what­ever team it hosts-stand to gain an estimated $500,000 for every game televised by NBC. 
An elitist move? Perhaps, but Notre Dame is among the elite of the college football world. Like in football games, there are winners and losers in this agreement. 
Notre Dame football and its fans are the big winners. Thirty nationally televised games over five years means you don't have to miss a thing; not the USCs and Penn States, not the Navys and Northwesterns, either. Hegu­lar national exposure gives a recognizable edge to the Irish in recruiting as well. 
Notre Dame students benefit as well, as the bulk of the funds coming from the agreement will be directed to providing financial need to students with demon­strated need. 
The big loser is the CFA. Although Notre Dame will remain a member of the CFA, it will not be involved in the new television pact. The original CFA deal with ABC and ESPN will have to be reevaluated given Notre Dame's absence. The action greatly reduces the desir­ability of the package to ABC/l<:SPN. 
University Executive Vice President Father E. William Beauchamp helped negotiate the CFA deal, so the CFA assumed Notre Dame's participation, despite the fact that no formal agreement was made. ABC says its agreement with the CFA includes Notre Dame, may take legal action against the NBC deal. 
College football is no longer just a Saturday pastime. It is big business_ The ND-NBC deal may be a slap in the face to the CFA, but if no promises were made or contracts signed, no one can blame Notre Dame for making a deal in the best interests of the fans, students and team. 

DOONESBURY 

is callously indifferent to the wealth and power of South By Paul Peralez violation of human rights Africa will remain. More of it, where the colored peoples of however. will be in the hands of 
The African Nationa! the world are concerned. Now, black men and women. But Congress has been declared a this nation is faced with a never should the black people legitimate and legal assembly sobering realization: onl.y of South Africa, particularly by the South African govern-twenty percent of the world IS Alan Boesak, Winnie Mandela, ment. This, coupled with the white and the other eighty per-and others who have artieu­expccted release of Nelson cent is angry. lated the cries of these down-Mandela, is but a single step of However abusive my remarks trodden peopl1~. forget tlw many steps that must be taken have been thus far, I t~uly do complacency of the United to end apartheid and to put the not advocate the use of vwlence States, Great Britain, and West reigns of economic and politicar to overthrow the racist, theo-G1~rmany. power in black hands. logically heretical regime of for the past eighty years, thn 
I expect that the President of South Africa. Indeed, thern system of apartheid has existed the United States, with charac-aren't enough white people to in South Africa. For the past 27 teristic hypocrisy, will praise kill to make up for the hun-years, Nelson Mandela has President f. W. deKierk for his dreds of thousands. of black wasted away behind bars. And "noble" leadership and reform. men, women, and children w~o through all these years the Where was George Bush and have been slaughtered. This United States of America, the his morally depraved predeces-atrocity is perhaps more hor-most powerful eountry and the sor when television revealed to rific than the Holocaust -not professed land of the free, did the world the brutality and in-only because more lives have nothing to end this outrageous humanity of the illegitimate been destroyed, but also. be-abrogation of human rights. white regime of South Africa? cause the des?end_ents of the. President George Bush. Notre Why didn't Ronald Reagan in-people who dted m the Nazi Dame Board of Trustees Presi­vade South Africa in defense of ?eath ca";lps and who now live dent Donald Keough, and freedom just as readily as he m the natiOn of Israel have sold countless others who have in invaded Grenada in defense of arms to the South African their respective ways con­the same? Why doesn't George regime. And even more tragi-tributed to the maintenance of Bush provide arms for the cally, the United. States is apartheid have no excuses; they South African resistance as aware of the brutality and car-have only reasons. Heasons readily as he deployed soldiers ~age and has allowed it to con-which. in the final analysis, are to overthrow a dictator in tmue. based upon economic and racial Panama? How quickly the United States considerations. Anyone who 
The answer is simple: only and Great Britain would invade denies this is a liar and a fool. when white people have some-South Africa if a black regime The whites of South Africa thing to lose does the United was gunning down white babies should be commended for one States become conscious of its and ravaging the homes of thing: for being so ingenious as commitment to freedom and white families. Our minds, how-to devise a constitution which then often acts with military ever, mustn't waste their energy for so long mufllnd a domestic force to express this commit-contemplati~g the inhuma?ity outcry of over 20 million people ment. With the emerging and hypocnsy of the_ Umted robbed of their humanity. In­changes in South Africa, the States and other white-con-deed, I believe the new blaek white minority, numbering 5 trolled governments. Rather, let leadership of South Africa million, stands to lose its con-the whites of these gover~-should respect the genius and trot over 26 million blacks and ments, who perpetrated the VIO-ability of the whites and refrain the world stands to gain an-lence or wh~ by their inaction from drastically altering the other democracy. And the exacerbated It, contemplate the South African constitution. whites of South Africa, if they fires of hell where the Lord The only change I recom­do not continue to dismantle shall surely send them. mended is the deletion of apartheid, will surely stand to The whites of South .Afric~ do "white" wherever it may appear lose their very lives. fear black rule. I don t believe and replacing it with the word 
Clearly, the history of this na-that they fear a~ ldi 0min-type "black". In light of the devel­tion's foreign and domestic Uganda emergmg m South opments in South Africa, I have policy reveals that there is no Africa. They fear something but one more message: East truth to the claim that this na-m.uch worse: that the blacks Europe, eat your heart out! tion is committed to freedom will treat them exactly as they Paul A. Peralez is enrolled in and equality. The United States treated the blacks. Clearly, the the Fres_h_/Tlan Year of Studies. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
}!X) WIT ZONKER, 
lAJ.,/(JNG
7HJNJ< J. J'5 IUHeR&IXJ 8tHAVIOR'5 YOU THIN!<. 
5TDRJ< 
HE!?&,
A UTTl/3 AU3X.C4Me 
()/)[)2 fflJM~ AReN'T W/3~
\ I 
WtfR£ 
'To discover God is not to 
discover an idea, but to discover oneself. It is to awaken to the part of one which has been hidden from sight and which one has refused to recognize.' 
Anonymous 

-------------~--~-----~ 

Viewpoint
Thursday, February 8, 1990 page 9 
Tax increases strike sharp blow to economy 
Everybody wants to cut thb federal budget deficit. Every­body agrees that this is a highly critical issue. Everybody is talking about the "need to make hard choices." Nobody is willing to say exactly what those choices should be. This column is about one choice that should not be made. That choice is raising taxes. 
There is a certain prima facie logic to raising taxes: the gov­ernment does not seem able to live within its means, so the ob­vious sol uti on is to increase its means. The problem is that there is no reason why the fed­eral government would not out­spend its new limits. There is a parable going around economic circles which illustrates this point nicely. 
There was a young man who had bought a luxury condo­minium which he could not af­ford. His wealthy grand­mother, taking pity on him, gave him five thousand dollars on the assumption that he would use it to pay off his debt. A month later he came back to her house begging for more 
Rick Acker 
In My Opinion 
money. When she asked him what he needed it for, he re­sponded, "Why, to pay off the Porsche you helped me buy last month." 
The moral of the story, of course, is that a spendthrift is always a sprendthrift, no mat­ter how much money he is given. Like the young man in the story, our government's debt problems will not be solved by giving it more money. In fact, a study done by Ohio University economists Lowell Gallaway and Richard Vedder shows that since 194 7 every tax increase of $1.00 has been fol­lowed by a spending increase of $1.58. Far from being a cure for the deficit, tax increases appear to be one of its causes. 
Another common fallacy is the belief that the 1981 tax cuts caused a sharp drop in gov­ernment revenue, which in turn caused the deficit. If this is true, then it follows naturally that restoring taxes to their pre-1981 levels would reduce the deficit. 
According to the Economist, however, government revenues actually increased by a strong 43.3% between 1981 and 1987, more than making up for the decreased taxes. These years of booming government in­come, however, were also the years of record deficits. In real dollar terms the federal gov­ernment will get more money this year than at any time in history. Clearly it does no need more cash. It needs more self­control. 
Even if raising taxes reduced the deficit, it would still be a bad idea. Raising taxes would take money away from individ­uals and corporations. This means there would be less in­vestment, less savings, and less purchasing. These would be sharp blows to our currently fragile economy. Federal Re­serve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan thinks that we al­ready stand a one-in-five chance of a recession. If there cuts which will be necessary to balance the budget. 
The deficit debate going on in Washington and across the country will affect all our fu­tures. As the rhetoric grows heated and passions become in­flamed, the nation will need strong, cool voices to remind it of the lessons of economics and history. 
Rick Acker is a first year law student and is· a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Church calls us to speak out against injustice 
If we Christians wish to un­derstand the "social dimension" of our faith, then we must look to our source: the life of Jesus. Not that we can learn his life in some historical-factual sense, but the Gospels, the first believ­ers' memory of him, give us many clues. Jesus, in the Gospels, was a man with friends, imaginative, peaceable, bold. critical of systems that oppress, able to love, cry, cor­rect and teach. Jesus came to people in their need. He an­nounced the reign of God and denounced human activity that was not the reign of God. 
Some inquiries into the life of Jesus conclude that he came to save our souls. This inquiry often suggests that Jesus lived on a spiritual plane, removed from the daily social and politi­cal struggle of those around 

Joseph Ross 
Ideas and Issues 
him. This inquiry often suggests that Jesus was a mystic, calling people to an other-worldly reality. This Jesus addresses only souls, a spiritual redeemer, announcing a king­dom of a rather vaporous na­ture, quite unconcerned with the life and death his hearers experienced. My reading of the Gospels says nothing could be further from the truth. 
While Jesus announced the reign of God that is only com­plete in the final age, he an­nounced the reign of God that creates community for all the alienated: the sick, the poor, the foreign. Jesus announced in deed, that women ought to be regarded with dignified status, that the poor, his companions, are most in need of his reign, as they are the most victimized by the current reign, coming from Temple authorities and Roman occupation. Jesus an­nounced that the leprous, blind and lame ought not be treated as the despised but rather as God's cherished. His reign calls his hearers to welcome the sick back into family. 
Jesus did not only announce God's reign. He simultaneously denounced the obstacles to God's reign. Jesus spoke hard words on the divorce decrees that allowed women to be cast off from family. He warned the rich that they would suffer for ignoring their poor brothers and sisters who live in the shadows of their grand homes. He denounced religious author­ities for making tiny details of the law seem essential, while laws protecting widows were forgotten. Jesus denounced Temple actiYity that severed acts of worship form acts of justice. For all this annuncia­tion and denunciation, he gave those in power the wrong rub and they found him guilty of a capital offense, and thus, pun­
ished him appropriately. 
The Church seeks to follow Jesus' pattern. We seek, through our public voices, to see people where they are and to muster the courage to an­nounce the reign of God and denounce the obstacles to it, that human choices continue to create. Thus the Church's social teachings denounce economies that victimize, weapons that threaten and kill, death penal­ties that numb us, and policies built on self-interest. 
And like Jesus, the Church announces that God's love is lavish, that every person is formed by God and thereby God's cherished own. We find ourselves in a world not so different from Jesus'. We see great need, contempt for human rights, desperate desires for forgiveness. Our call is to know the Church's teachings, so that humbly but boldly, we can contribute to it, and encourage the Church's public voices to announce and denounce in the spirit and manner of Jesus. 
Joseph Ross C.S. C. is rector 
of Morrissey Hall. The Ideas 
and Issues column is sponsored 
by SUB. 

-
LETTERS 
U.S. funding of El Salvador military furthers human rights violations 
Dear Editor: death squads. 
I would like to suggest that Mr. Gaffney might trust these Michael Gaffney (The Observer, soldiers not to kill him if he Feb. 6) check his facts regarding happened to vote differently than E1 Salvador. He claims that the they wanted. The evidence shows military watched Salvadorans that he would be foolish to do while they voted in order to so. defend them from rebels. 
This is of course the same Joseph Gress military which murdered Research associate Archbishop Romero, four Department of Physics American nuns, six Jesuit Feb. 6, 1990 

priests, scores of trade union 
leaders and tens of thousands of Column shows insensitivity toward 
other Salvadorans for trying to 
bring about peaceful change. unique qualities of individuals 
By the  way,  this is also  the  Dear Editor:  need  to  print such  observa­ 
same military to which we, the  In  response  to  Janice  tions.  
United States, give hundreds of  O'Leary's Inside Column (The  
millions of dollars worth of weapons every year. This is also the same military which our government tells every year: "We won't give you any more money next year if you keep murdering priests, nuns, trade union leaders, etc."  Observer, Jan. 30), I have no problem with Ms. O'Leary mak­ing fun of her own humorous experiences of not being able to master the machines at a public laundromat, but her editorial was overshadowed by her condescending attitude toward the other patrons.  Ms. O'Leary does not ap­preciate that all people are unique and special in their own way and that she can learn and grow from them. While she is wasting time ridiculing others and their lifestyles, life will pass her by.  
They keep right on murdering  I was  appalled  at how she  
and we keep right on giving them  ridiculed the patrons publicly  Georgeanna Rosenbush  
weapons.  The  Salvadoran  by criticizing their personal hy­ Assistant Director  
military has had plenty of time  giene  as  well  as  questioning  Student Activities  
to clean up its act. It is time for  their gender. I feel ashamed for  Saint Mary's College  
us  to stop funding their bloody  Ms. O'Leary that she felt the  Feb. 1. 1990  

Time demands force cheerleaders to put academics ahead of athletics 
Dear Editor: placing the emphasis on athlet­
I am writing in response to ics and away from academics. Sister T.J. Burns' article (The As it is now, the cheerleading Observer, Feb. 1). This letter season is longer than any other addressed the departure of the sport's season. It extends from band and some of the the end of the summer until cheerleaders after the Notre tryouts in early April. In addi­Dame -Miami men's basketball tion to football and basketball, game preceding the women's we give support to many sports game versus DePaul. Sister for "big" games or meets. We Burns was upset that most also attend numerous commu­fans, the band, and some of the nity functions while balancing cheerleaders did not remain at academic demands. the JACC to cheer for the 
I realize that the present sit­
women. 
uation is not completely fair to 
all Notre Dame athletes. 
I, too, am upset that the However, because the emphasis women's program and many at the University is on educa­other University sponsored tion-as it should be-fans, the athletic programs do not re­band, and cheerleaders alike ceive the support that the foot­will continue to support all ball program receives; however, sports as time permits. for the cheerleaders to attend every athletic event Notre Dame Don Gomez holds would be to neglect the Co-captain primary goal of the Notre Dame Cheerleading Team University-to educate. Feb. 2, 1990 
Because the cheerleaders re­ceive no financial compensation (i.e., book allowance or schol­arship), we are here, like all other students at Notre Dame, first and foremost, to learn. If we were to attend every event Notre Dame held, this would be 
Viewpoint welcomes letters ~nd columns on a variety of 'issues. Send your thouQhts to: Viewpoint, P.O. Box 0, 'Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 





Accent
page 10 
..... 
THE BUNCH IS BACK 
Mike, Carol, Greg, Marcia, Peter, Jan, Bobby, Cindy and Alice 

Thursday, February 8, 1990 
"The Brady Buneh" began in 
the late sixties. The short-lived "Brady Brides" premiernd in the late seventies. "A Very 
Brady Christmas" debutPd in the eightil~s. and the nineties begin with "The Bradys." 
CBS hopes all tlw Brady fans in America will take a I'I~JH'WI'd interest in "The Bradys." The show promises to be full of in­teresting, if rn-hashml. plots and will surely depict the Bradys in all their grandeur. glory. and glee. After all, that's the way they became tlw Brady Bunch. 
It's the -------­story of a man named Brady... 
' ~.j I
Yes, it's 
true. 
•
Amer­ica's favorite Joe Bocolo 
buneh, To Be Continued the Bradys. whose members have a habit of re-enacting situations and continually saving each other's lives. is back in an all-new TV series appropriately titled "The Bradys." CBS presents "The Bradys" every Friday at 8 p.m. begin­ning this wePk with a speeial two-hour pn~minrn. Hobert Heed stars as Mike Brady. the architect who panicked when his plans were replaced by a Yogi Bear poster at Kings Island. Florence Hend1~rson re­turns as Carol. Mike's loving wife and tlw only woman who would allow her ehildrnn to spend tlw night with her on her honeymoon. All the Brady kids are baek. too. Marcia (now played by ac­tress Leah Ayresl. whose nose has only just recovered from being broken by a football, is now married to Wally (Jerry llouserl. a toy salnsman. Apparently, her dreams of marrying a dentist and helping him rinse each day after work are over. Jan (Eve Plumbl is also mar­ried. She's matured quite a bit, too. She now aceepts her freck­les and can tell the differenee between engraving stores that eharge by the letter or by the job. Cindy (Susan Olsen) now 
has her eyes set on her re­
cently-widowed boss. Perfectly 
happy in her new job, Cihdy no 
longer desires to be the next 
Shirley Temple. 
Greg (Barry Williams) is now a doctor and has a son who the family affectionately calls "Slug." Greg no longer linds it necessary to deeorate his room with lava lamps and beads. However, he still can't worm his way out of a meat loeker to save his life. 
Peter (Christopher Knight) is now married to his boss. When the moon is full. Peter is still known to speak with a Humphrey Bogart aceent or re­cite the line, "Hark! Who goes there?" Race ear driver Bobby (Mike Lookinlandl hasn't seen his Indian friend in a while, but has a flashlight full of beans ready just in case. 
Tlw new series, producers say, will be quite different from the original. In addition to be­ing an hour long, the show will be a drama with comic high­lights, a sort of "bradysome­thing." The plots will address more serious issues than the original series. 
In the two-hour pilot, Bobby gets into a harrowing auto ac­cident during a race resulting in the paralysis of his legs. The family struggles to cope with and accept this tragic event. Unfortunately, no Carol Brady rendition of "Oh Come, All Ye Faithful" will cure this trau­matic experience for Bobby. 
Future episodes will deal with more typically-Brady events, but in a more dramatic fashion than of old. For example, in one episode, a freeway expansion threatens to level the Brady home. 
The Bradys are given six months to move before the wrecking ball trashes their home. In an attempt to rally the neighborhood for a light against City Hall (sound famil­iar?), Mike gives a moving speech which becomes his en­trance into the world of politics. 
Other story lines include the blossoming romance between Cindy and her widowed boss Gary {Ken Michelman). Also, Greg will accept a position at the hospital where he was born, a nice plot device to have the entire family living in the same town. And it looks as if 
Marcia and Wally will be 
moving back into the Brady house with Carol and Mike! 
How cozy ... 
"The Bradys" is a result of last year's "A Very Brady Christmas." The lilm was the second highest rated lilm of the year and prompted CBS execu­tives to request three additional two-hour movies. Later, CBS decided to launch this new series in lieu of the lilms. 
"The Brady Bunch" is the 
lirst TV family to entertain 
audiences for four decades. 

Album reviews 

They Might Be Giants and Grant Hart's latest 
JOHN LANE 
accent writer 
F 
lood is the latest release from They Might Be Giants, the New York duo of John Flansburgh and John Linnell. Flood marks the major label debut of They Might Be Giants on Elektra Entertainment. 
They Might Be Giants con­tinues to write sarcastic, non­sensible songs like those found on their earlier recordings, They Might Be Giants and Lincoln. Establishing records for shortest song-length, Flood contains 19 tracks which last for only 43 minutes. The songs range from catchy and funny through quality pop to annoy­ingly stupid. 
Most of the quality pop songs on Flood occur on side one. "Birdhouse. In Your Soul" and "Your Racist Friend" have excellent lyrics. 'Twisting," a 50's-style song, contains first­rate keyboards and guitars. Other entertaining songs in­clude "Lucky Ball & Chain" and "We Want A Rock." 
Flood also contains a number of catchy, funny songs such as "Minimum Wage" and "Istanbul." These are typical They Might bn Giants songs be­cause of their silly lyrics and simple beats. 
Some of the tracks on Flood go beyond silliness and are simply stupid. Songs like "Dead" and "Whistling In The Dark" have such absurd lyrics that it is diflieult to enjoy them. They Might Be Giants takes a comical approach to their music. The results are often refreshing, hilarious and light­hearted, but sometimes the band tries to be too clever. 
Nevertheless, Flood is a high­quality album from They Might Be Giants. The band continues to put out comical pop songs and is gaining a wider audience. 
I 
ntolerance is the lirst full­length solo album re­leased by Grant Hart, former drummer for the now-defunct group, Husker Du. Despite an expressed reluctance to experiment with new sounds in the past, Ilart displays some artistic creativity in this solo effort. 
On Intolerance, Hart shakes off his fear of diversity in music and uses a number of different instruments and sounds par­ticularly with the keyboards. 

This leads to a few interesting 
tracks like "Holler Hink." 
Ilowever, it usually leads to 
songs which are too complex 
such as "Heprise," the linal 
track on the album. 

lntolerance does contain some worthwhile sounds. "All Of My Senses" is an excellent tune featuring organ music. There is also a great acoustic version of "2541" which was the title track of Hart's '88 debut EP. Other highlights in­clude "The Main," a slow piano piece that sounds like an old Springsteen tune, and "Now That You Know Me," a harmoniea-lilled song with a fast pace. 
Although Intolerance starts off strong, the end is rath1~r laid-back and sloppy. The last four songs are slow and dull. with uninspired vocals. It docs not seem like much time or thought were put into songs like "You're The Victim" or "Anything." 
Despite Hart's creativity, Intolerance is a disappointing debut album. Anyone familiar with-Husker Du knows that Hart possesses great song­writing ability. Hopefully. his next album will display more of that talent. 
... 

Thursday, February 8, 1990 The Observer page 11 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including spaces. 
( NOTICES 
Word Processing Can return on disk Pick up and delivery 271-9114 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277­5134 Cathy. 
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING IS MOVING. AND AS OF 2/9/90 WILL BE LOCATED 808 EAST JEFFERSON BLVD. SOUTH BEND. IN 46617 237·1949 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Charles Wilber Professor of Economics Responding to: "What Do The Bishops Know About Economics?" An analysis of the Bishops' Letter on the Economy THURSDAY, FEB. 8 7 p.m. All are welcome ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 
USED TEXTBOOKS 
AT A DISCOUNT! Pandora's Books 233·2342 corner of N.D. ave. and Howard 
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shipping, Copies, Cards. Laser Quality For Papers, Reports, Resumes. Etc. 277-MAIL 
YOU WANT A GREAT JOB ... Alumni Senior Club applications for bartenders and managers now available in Student Activities Office. 
WORD PROCESSING & TYPING. REASONABLE PRICES. 289·1743. 
For a hot tip on where to find a good time Call647·0900 ext.1740 Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST Pair of red wire-rimmed glasses Mon. in Huddle. If found please call X2963. 
$$$REWARD$$$REWARD$$$ Lost pair of black lined leather gloves. If found please call Claudine x4045. 
LOST: If you have a navy &tan Liz Claiborne leather shoulder bag that doesn't belong to you, PLEASE return it! Contains many valuble items, including Sharp Graphic calculator. checkbook, etc! REWARD· no questions asked! PLEASE call283-4354 anytime' 
FOUND: In Library Auditorium-·2 keys on a Seattle, Washington keychain. Room number 232. Call Ken x1773. 
LOST Brown Leather Jacket taken from party at 304 Campus View. I really like it so please return it...or else I'll call crime stoppers. No questions asked #1804 (Brian) 
LOST: eye glasses in Washington Hall at Sunday's Gospel Choir concert(2-4·90). PLEASE call x4907 if you found them. My academic career depends on you!! 
FOUND: RING IN 116 O'SHAG CALL X 4852 · JEANMARIE 
LOST A GREY GLASS CASE WITH A PAIR OF GLASSES (GOLDEN COLOR). IF YOU FIND IT PLEASE CALL MENG 239­5791. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. 
FOUND: CROSS PEN IN ROOM 123 OF NIEUWLAND. CALL X4098 TO CLAIM. 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52·1N04, Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. 
Ride Needed to IU·Bioomington 
this weekend, Fri2/9 Return 
Sun219 Claudine x4045 
DESPERATELY SEEKING A PIANO IN GOOD CONDITION. DO YOU HAVE ONE YOU'D LIKE TO SELL TO ME? CALL SHIRLEY@ 239-5303 BETWEEN 8:30 AM & 3:30PM. 
Ride needed to COLUMBUS, OH Friday 2/16. Call Jackie x4114 
COUNSELORS, summer camp for MR. June 10-August18, Orlando, FL (407) 889-8088. 
Summer job interviews-Average earnings $3,400. University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories, hires over 200 college students for their summer sales program. Top earnings $5,000­$8,000. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory. Positions also available in other university markets. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthusiastic, goal­oriented students for challenging, well-paying summer job. Internships may be available. Interviews on campus Tues., Feb. 
20. Sign up at the Career & Placement Services. 
Wanted: A ride to Purdue or Rensselaer THIS WEEKEND (2-9). or any other. Call Jennie X2194. 
FOR RENT 
AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR · LARGE 4 BDRM. HOME. COMPLETELY FURNISHED. CLOSE TO SCHOOL. CALL 234· 9364. 
House for 1990·91 school year 
Furnished, secure home, 5 
bedrooms. WID 
Close to NO 
Competitive rent 264·601 0 
House for 1990·91 school year. Furnished, secure home, 6 bdrms.. 2 baths, competitive rent. Close to NO. 234-6688. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219·291-7153. 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
FOR SALE 
1981 FORD GRANADA, 84,000 
MI. $400. 255·3230. 
NEG 54" projection TV 
PERFECT FOR DORMS 
Call NO Dept. of Comm. &Theatre 
239-7054 
JUDOGI 
lor sale 
size3 call Laura x3887 
TICKETS 
NEED 3 TICKETS FOR NO VS GEORGIA TECH. JOHN X3853 
I Need 4 GEORGIA TECH Tickets For FAMILY!$$$ Tom x3259 HELP! 
NEED 4 GEORGIA TECH TICKETS. CALL JOANIE x3851 
$NEED GA's for Georgia Tech$ call Jim x1646 
NEED 3 GEORGIA TECH TICKETS. CALL KEN x4074. 
I NEED 1 GEORGIA TECH TICKET. MIKE X3501 
Need one ticket for Missouri Call Matt x1213 
PERSONALS 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864·5512 
Parrot Heads Forever II! 
0 SONY 3.5" DISKETTE SALE!!! 0 $1.49 each or 10 for $12.99 THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune 
This is your chance to save SYRs or end them. Get the survey to your hall president today. 
CLUB 23 
Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open for dinner 5 -11 pm Monday to Saturday 
THE CLUB 23 
Featuring up & coming bands. Don't miss our evening specials. 234-3541 'MO' 
Looking for a gift for this weekend's SWEETHEART 
DANCE? Visit the Country Harvester for chocolates, bears, lotsa candy. tins, mugs and other great Valentine's Day gift ideas. The Country Harvester 
M-F 12-5, Sat. 11-2 
PHYSICIAN AND WIFE CAN PROVIDE SECURE, STABLE, LOVING HOME FOR YOUR BABY. EXPERIENCED PARENTS OF ADOPTED 2 YEAR OLD. LEGAL, PRIVATE ADOPTION. CALL COLLECT 513-891-1583. 
Guys! Think you're the only gay on campus? You're not alone! I am not a club or organization. I'm just one nice guy interested in meeting for friendship. Dis-cretion assured. (it's impor· tan! to me too. It wasn't easy for me to place this ad, but hopefully you'll respond. MARK. P.O.BOX 974, NO 46556. 
JERRY LONG hi there -Coak 
February is Windy City Month! 
Buy a ticket to Chicago and 
get a shopping bag filled with neat 
stuf!! 
Only at the Info Desk in 
LaFortune 
THE BOATHOUSE BLUES BAND will be appearing at Club 23 
THIS FRIDAY 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE Thur. Feb. 8 7:00pm. 
Rm 120 Law School 
Meeting and Movie: 
"Meet the Abortion Providers" 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 
?p.m. Thursday, Feb. 8 
All are welcome. 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 
Des and Kimbo. 
HAPPY idea of a 21st 
BIRTHDAY!!! Love, Shell, Christine, Rachel, Suzanne, and Jen 
WANT AN SYR DATE? 
If you received an SYR survey this week, fill it out and return it to your hall president by Sunday, Feb. 11 . 
Looking for Love in all the 
wrong places? Try something 
new --February 13 
Matchmaker, Matchmaker, 
make me a match, find me a 
find, catch me a catch.· February 
13 
What do the Irish Guard wear under their kilts? Buy one and find out February 13 
Selling People .... Is it fair? 
WOMEN OF NO-WE HATE TO 
BREAK IT TO YOU, BUT JIM"THE 
FAUCET" KOCKLER HAS 
ANNOUNCED THAT HE IS 
TAKING A TWO WEEK BREAK 
FROM SKIRT CHASING 
BECAUSE OF EXCESSIVE 
TESTS. SORRY FOR THE 
INCONVENIENCE, BUT JIM 
DECIDED THAT HE HAD TO 
"TURN IT OFF" FOR A WHILE. 
Ooooh is this getting exciting! 
Now it's only 1 more day until 
MIKE MURPHY'S birthday! He'll 
still be a youngin'. but he's 
still cool! 
hiag 
And... SEAN BROWN turns 21 
on Feb. 8th!!!!! HAPPY B'DAY! 
•••••••·w1NTERFEST.... 
TOURNAMENTS, BENDIX WOODS, CLUB TUESDAY, ICE SKATING, ALL-NIGHT MOVIES ........WINTERFEsr••• 
FEBRUARY 4 -1 0 ......... 
AVOID THE RUSH! 
AVOID THE WAIT IN LINE! 
COME IN TO THE OBSERVER 
SOON TO ENTER YOUR 
VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. 
In 1986 the Board of Trustees promised to divest but didn't. Thursday, Feb.S they meet again. Join the AAN at 12:15 Thursday for a vigil and demonstration on the Fieldhouse Mall. Come· because you hate Apartheid and Because you love Notre Dame. 
SENIOR GUYS! SENIOR GUYS! 
Sally Wont Fake It Tonight at Lingerie Night!!! (or is it lingerREY night?) 
LOVE SONGS & ROSES 
The Classiest Valentine on 
Campus coming Feb. 10 from the 
Notre Dame Glee Club. 
Lollipops and other neat treasures await you at the Country Harvester LaFortune Basement M-F 12·5, Sat. 11-2. 
HELLO SUNSHINE, MARY AND, OF COURSE, VINNIE!!!!!!!! UUH-HIYA & GOOD-BY A FROM YOUR PAL MOLLY 
PHILIP KRAKER: 
RIDDLE ME THIS: Why does a man ask me to kill him because he's dying, when he's not dying but he asks me to kill him? 
I don't know, but I do know that "You are my No. 1 GUY!" Love, Ms. Money Penny 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM PRESENTS: CHARLES WILBER Professor of Economics 
responding to "What Do The Bishops Know About Economics?" An analysis of the Bishops' Letter on the Economy 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8 7 P.M. 
KC, YENTIL AND RJ--UUHHIYA 
FROM YOUR INVISIBLE PAL 
MOLLY! 
"HOW TO CONDUCT AN 
EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAIGN" 
PRESENTATION BY PAUL 
REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 
PLACEMENT SERVICES 
TONIGHT 6:30P.M., ROOM 124 
HAYES HEALY. ALL INVITED. 
"HOW TO CONDUCT AN 
EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAIGN" 
PRESENTATION BY PAUL 
REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 
PLACEMENT SERVICES 
TONIGHT6:30 P.M., ROOM 124 
HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL 
INVITED. 
"HOW TO CONDUCT AN 
EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAIGN". 
PRESENTATION BY PAUL 
REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 
PLACEMENT SERVICES 
TONIGHT 6:30P.M. ROOM 124 
HAYES HEALY CENTER. ALL 
INVITED. 
STILL NEED MICRO-ECON BOOK BY BROWNING. CALL AMY AT3874 
Ed's Painting Co. 
Live in concert-Thur. nile 
10:00 to 12:00 in Keenan basement. Free admis. Accoustic rock 
Steph--oogla boogla, nobody's 
home, crush your head, Katrina, 
yahdat, silver and gold, 'naugh, 
Myrtle Beach. 
7:30, oh really, Happy 20th--Reg 
Rich and Whitey: ok, the message was amusing, but the question remains the same: "Who slept on top last night?" just wondering...m.y. 
BEST SPRING BREAK TRIPS! Bahamas cruise + 6 days $279, includes meals, parties, accomodations, some rooms have kitchens, leaves from Ft. Lauderdale. Cancun 8 days $399, 6 days Jamaica $369. Spring Break Travel 1·800-638-6786. 
Seniors............................................... 
Feb. 13th at Alum.Sr. Club 
from 1Opm -2am 

Got a Date/ Need a Date 
Senior Formal Spring Raffle 
Win Tuxedoes, Bids, etc.. *****"'•••***.* * *.***.*. 
Don't forget 
Friday Lunch Noon-2 at Alumni Sr. Club 
Don't forget 
St. Jude, please hear my prayer. 
LOVE SONGS & ROSES The Classiest Valentine on Campus Coming Feb. 10 from the Notre Dame Glee Club. 
•••••••••••••••••••••••KATHRIN 
DIANE MCCLOSKEY 
Happy 20th Birthday. Try to 
contain yourself peanut. 
Love, the rest of your very cool 
family
......,., ........,........, .... 
HAPPY 22nd SAS! HOPE YOU 
HAVE A GREAT DAY! 
Coming soon.. 
Cliff Erickson Where? Alumni Sr. Club When? Feb 15 & 16 
MISFITS IN DISGUISE....... Alumni Sr. Club Feb 10 1Opm-11 pm........ 
Check out the New Price on 
Club Cup Nile.............................. 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS 
LONDON(MAY 23-JUNE22) 
ROME(JUNE17-JUL Y16) TRAVEL IN IRE.: SCOT., FR.. SWITZ., GER .. ENG., & ITALY. COURSES IN ART, BIO., BUEC, 
HIST., IT., SOC. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FEB. 19 AT 7:30P.M. CARROLL HALL(SMC). PREVIOUS STUDENTS. TEACHERS,& PIZZA. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL DR. BLACK AT 284·4460 OR 272-3726. 
We have what you need!! Great Valentine's Day gifts! Potpourri Roses, Chocolate Kisses, Bear Hugs, Hot Stuff 
The DUNK TANK a\ LATE NIGHT 
OLYMPICS (gate 6) WILL BE 
OPEN FROM 10 p.m. until2 a.m. 
SCHEDULED TO APPEAR. .. 
Joe Cassidy 
Tom Rask 
Troy Ridgley 
Rob Pasin 
Vinnie Sanchez 

and much, much more. Proceeds 
go to St. Joseph County Special 
Olympics. 
PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES at CLUB23 Saturday February 1 0 

To the quint+ 1, Can't wait for Friday! But here are some reminders for our fellow roomates: Debbie-no more bets about Friday night­ABSOLUTELY none!!!!!!!! Jeanie­please do not embarass us-Do Not WEAR A SLIP!!!! Molly-The ball is in your court. Sweet dreams! II! Lisa-Two words--JUGS LIVES !!!!!!! Love, Katie & Molly 
Colleen Ryan, 
We're all looking forward 

to seeing you at the party in 
Dillon this Friday. 
CHILDREN AT NOTRE DAME OF DIVORCED PARENTS: Come to a discussion group Tuesday 13, 7:00 pm in Lewis. Details: Christina 3445 
Steve, Scott, Jon & Will· Would U do it. Did U do it-oh my God U did?· with who? 5 minutes? Paybacks are hell! 
Love, Kath & Erin 
hi tim 

Charity Ball Meeting 7pm Tonite Sorin rm. La Fortune All interested in helping with the ball are welcome to join us. 
**SOPHOMORES** Sign up1 far JPW Escape Ia Clllcago start Mon., Feb. S 1st floor LaFortune -nut to the infomation desk (S&Ol 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Char\es Wilber Prof. of Economics 
res~ Ia 

"What Do The Bishops Know About Economics?" 
Art Analysitl olthe Bistlq:e'lettet on ttM 
Economy 

Thurs. Feb. 8 at 7:00P.M. 
co-oponso•od by S.U.B. 
SUMIIIIER J08S ::OUNSELORS-Boys C~. W. Mau. I Girts Camp, Maine Top Salary, Rm/Bd/Laundry, Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activities: Archery, Arts & Crafts, BaseMII, Basketball, Bicycling, Cheerla.dlng, Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf,l>uitar. Gymnastics, Hockey, Horsebacf<, 
Karate, Lacrosse. Natura, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, ~ Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: ~Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. Women call or write: C~ Vega, P.O. Box 1n1. Duxbury, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. 
***** 
TUI-1111
...... 

!,1,4 -5 ...... IPTI.IVAUU 
lfiiTIIIIE Fl........ FEI"NIIm.R IECIIIIllfiBI. 
BAiflllll1,lfll YIIIDI,W...~ 
CONII*I-­
BHB~.-­CAll !I!~ 
If}O.ire jpi~ todrinkarrl dri\e at lea<;t let tre rest ofU5 knc.M: Reader's Digest 



Hoyas, Jayhawks, LSU triumph 
LANDOVER, Md. (AP) -Dikembe Mutombo scored 17 points, grabbed 15 rebounds and blocked eight shots and Sant Jefferson scored a career-high 16 points Wednesday night as No. 5 Georgetown moved into first place in the Big East with a 97-81 victory over Pittsburgh. 
Georgetown {18-2, 8-2) al­lowed Pitt the first point of the game and never trailed thereafter in moving one­half game ahead of second­place Connecticut. Alonzo Mourning scored 20 points and Mark Tillmon 17 for the Hoyas, who led by 18 at halftime and never let the margin shrink bnlow 12 the rest of the way. 
Bobby Martin scored 27 points for the Panthers (9­11, 3-6), who had a three­game winning streak snapped. Pitt. which also got 
19  points  from  Jason  
Matthews, is  0-8  against  
Georgetown  at  the  Capital  
Centre.  

The Hoyas led 28-24 when freshman David Edwards hit a driving jump11r to ignite a 26-12 run that gave Georgetown a 54<H> halftime advantage. Edwards scored seven points in the burst and Jefferson had six. 
The Panthers went five minutes without a basket during the run and made only 31 percent of their shots in the first half. 
refferson scored 10 points in the first half. matching his pnwious career-high for an entire game. He had been 

February Service Specials Killilea Has Done It Again Front or Rear GM Brakes at 1985 Prices $79.95 each 
(86-89 Toronado models $10 extra) 
Includes: Factory Disc Pads or Shoes Turn Rotors or Drums and Pack Wheel Bearings, if required (rear return springs extra) 
Ends Feb. 28th 
with 22 pt. safety/service inspection 
averaging three points a game this season. 
Kansas 83, Okla. St. 76 
STILLWATER, Okla. (AP) -Kevin Pritchard and Mark Randall keyed a second-half run that gave Kansas a big lead and the second-ranked Jayhawks held on for an 83­
76  Big Eight victory  over  
Oklahoma  State  on  
Wednesday night.  

Pritchard made two 3­pointers and Randall added three field goals in a 16-8 run in the first four minutes of the second half as Kansas built a 52-32 lead. The Jayhawks (23-1, 6-1) stretched the lead to 24 on three occasions, the final time at 60-36 on Rick Calloway's jumper with 
10:21 left. 
But Mattias Sahlstrom scored 10 points and Byron Houston seven as Oklahoma State {13-8, 4-5) rallied to 75-69 with 2:16 remaining. Kansas helped the Cowboys by missing the front end of three one-and-ones. 
However. four free throws by Pritchard and two by Jeff Gueldner gave the Jayhawks an 81-70 lead and breathing room with 1:29 remaining. 
Pritchard scored 17 points and Calloway had 15. Kansas won for the sixth straight time in Stillwater and has beaten Oklahoma State in 15 of the past 16 meetings. 
Kansas started quickly, making seven of its first nine shots to take a 15-4 lead 5 112 minutes into the game. 
The Jayhawks then made only one field goal in the next seven minutes, allowing Oklahoma State to pull to 17-12, but the Cowboys got no closer than that the rest of the way. 
Houston, the Cowboys' top scorer, had 1 7 points but only four in the first half, all free throws when Kansas dominated inside. Sahlstrom also scored 17. 
LSU 82, Auburn 71 
BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) -With Chris Jackson scoring a career-low nine points, big men Shaquille O'Neal and Stanley Roberts took over a slow-tempo game Wednesday night and led 11th-ranked LSU to an 82-71 victory over Auburn. 
Jackson's previous low was 11 points against Alabama earlier this season and he was averaging over 28 points a game before Wednesday night. He played 35 minutes but was only 3­for-11 and took only two shots in the second half. 
LSU is 18-4 and 8-3 in the Southeastern Conference. Auburn is 8-14 and 4-7. 
The 7-foot-1 O'Neal had 19 points, 10 rebounds and three blocked shots for LSU (18-4, 8-3). The 7-foot Roberts had 15 points, 10 rebounds and four blocks. 
Auburn milked the shot clock until the final 4:30 of the game when, trailing 65­59, the Tigers had to foul to get the ball. But LSU hit the foul shots, widening the lead to 72-59. 
Thursday, February 8, 1990 
AP Photo 
The North Carolina State Wolfpack defeated the North Carolina Tarheels 88-77 and Oklahoma held off Iowa State to win 86-81 in college basketball action. 
FULL SERVICE FLORIST  
Balloon  Plants  Bouquets  
Bouquets  Corsages  Arrangement  
Dish Gardens  Boutonnieres  Fresh and Sil  



p----------------------,
l10°/o OFF CASH AND CARR VII with SMC or ND student ID • 
1be Cl'oMinp JlllaU

------------------------· 
Soutb ol VnlvCI'IIIty Plldl Mall Mishawaka. Irt 4-6M~ 

5901 Grape Rd.
277-1291 

-------~-------~----­

AP Photo 
The Philadelphia 76ers' Charles Barkley netted 30 points Wednesday night, but could not stop the Golden State Warriors from beating the 76ers 113-112 and ending their 12-game winning streak. 
THE MEN'S CLOSET & MORE SOUTH BEND'S FIRST MEN'S CONSIGNMENT SHOP Fashionable designer clothing Casual to Formal Wear GENTLE-MEN-L Y USED ~ accepting spnng clothing and accessories. by appointment only Wolfe 529 N. Niles Ave. upstairs Mon-Sat 10 am-6 pm Tanning (next to Spaghetti Works) 232-1099 Available  ~  


Ul ~~~~~ ;;~:;~~~~;~~~~;,;~;;=;~;~:~; 


~!:CLUB 
Student Manager Applications & Job Descriptions for 1990-91 are now available. 
Pick them up in the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Application deadline is February 23, 1990. 
Questions? Call: 239-7521. 




Goshen 
continued from page 16 
"It's funny, people will prob­ably criticize Notre Dame for playing an NAIA team, but no­body can challenge us on.-our schedule after our Miami, Texas and USC escapades." 
Notre Dame last season de­feated Miami and Texas, schools that both eventually reached the College World Series. The Irish lost 8-1 to USC, the nation's top-ranked team heading into the season, in last October's Irish Fall Classic. 
The Irish do not continue their season until Feb. 23, when they begin a three-game series at Hawaii. 

~tN/1/Itflb/ 
at Saint Mary's College 1989-90 PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 
Friday, February 9 CHAMBER BLUES with CORKY SIEGEL & THE CONSORTIUM STRING QUARTET 
Friday,April20 
CHICAGO CITY LIMITS 

All performances 8 p.m., O'Laugblin Auditorium 
Series subscriptions and individual performance tickets available at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets by phone at 219/284-4626. VISA. MasterCard orders only. For updated program information. call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline. 674-0900, category 1740. 
r-;.iiiiiiiii--iiiiiiiiiiiii Saint Ma~'s Coli~~ iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..
• NOTRE DAME-INDIANA 
Today is the last day for all women of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to sign up for ••• 
N 
D 

Sign up during lunch and dinner in North/South, ND-SMC Cafeterias. Acts should be no longer than 5 minutes in length, well rehearsed and near perfection. 
.. 

Tryouts will be held... Sun. -Feb. 11 1Oam -5pm SMC Ltde Theatre 
The performances will be March 2nd and 3rd Sponsored by C' .A. D 
~J.::r.&r 

--·-------------~-------­
page 14 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Rowing Club will meet at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in 124 Nieuwland to discuss spring break trip. Bring check books. 
Men's Volleyball Team will host Tri State at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce ACC pit. Admission is free. 
Holy Cross Hall will host "Hog Bowl I," a campus section football tournament t.o benefit homeless children in South Bend, this Saturday and Sunday at Holy Cross Fie~d. Each men's hall will be represented by tts section champ. The finals will be at 4:30 p.m. Sunday. 
Advanced Conditioning Class will start Feb. 12 from 5:30 to 6:30p.m. The class will be held Monday, Tuesday; Thursday and Friday until March 3. Call 239-7890 to register before 5 p.m. Feb. 9. 
Students interested in pl<!ying off-campus lacrosse should call Mike at 287-3087 or John at 271-8309. 
Freshmen interested in being a student manager should attend a meeting at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the ACC football auditorium. 
Call 239-6482 for more information. 
Racquetball Club will hold a meeting for anyone interested in playing during second semester. The meeting will be held in 343 Nieuwland on Feb. 13 at 8 p.m. Call x 2334 or x 227 4 for more information. 
Any women interested in Bengal Mission Bout promotion should come to the Boxing Room in the Joyce ACC at 1 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 10. Call Walter at 233-7193 for more information. 
Volunteers are needed to assist the handicapped youngsters from Logan Center in the swimming pool at McKinely School. Six to nine volunteers are needed from 10-11 
a.m. on Friday Feb. 9. Contact Beverly Arnold at Logan at 289-4831 or Dennis Stark . Director of Aquatics, at 239-5983. 
Greed 
continued from page 16 
conversations haVf~ been with the CFA.... We negotiated a deal last fall that included all 64 members of the CFA and, frankly, we think we have a deal with all 64 teams." 
Bornstein said the network had not ruled out legal action against the CFA, Notre Dame or NBC. "We're not giving up any of our options," he said, "and that's one of the ones we're exploring." 
CBS spokesman Tony Fox ac­knowledged that "schools have contacted us in the last couple of days. 
Eleven of Notre Dame's 12 regular-season games were televised nationally last season 

Absolute Deadline for filing all St. Michael's Laundry fire claims is Friday. Feb. 16. 1990 
Claims should be filed in 108 LaFortune or call 239-7802 for information 
Thursday, February 8, 1990 
MCC 
continued from page 16 
roundings will be beneficial for the visiting teams. 
"It will be a comfortable place for all the swimmers," Welsh said. "We have the largest pool in the conference, both in water and deck space. We are happy to host the championships, and hope tt comes back here in the future." 
The Irish are coming off an outstanding dual meet season, with the men's team finishing 12-2, and the women at 9-5. 
"We have been preparing well for our championship season," said Welsh. "This three day meet is a great beginning, and I am glad it is being held here." 
for an estimated $4 million. They'll make $6 million a year from NBC, or $1 million per game, and that doesn't count what they could make from road games. 
"The bottom line is money, and it boils down to one word: greed," Colorado State athletic director Oval Jaynes said. "Notre Dame wants all the ex­
" 
0 
.a 
c 
G) 
• 
"'c 
0 



Texas 
continued from page 16 
the starting lineup -Gerald Lewis at 7. 7 ppg, Troy Valentino at 6.4 ppg and Tony Patterson at 3.0 ppg. 
Notre Dame will counter with its usual lineup. Co-captain Joe Fredrick (16.3 ppg) and Tim Singleton (5.5 ppg) should start at guards with Keith Hobinson in the middle (14.8 ppg) and LaPhonso Ellis (16.1 ppg and 
12.3 rpg) and Monty Williams 
(8.3 ppg) at forwards. 
Daimon Sweet (6.1 ppg) and Elmer Bennett (9.1 ppg) -The Texas Express -should get big ovations when they make their appearances in the Texas series. Sweet graduated from Central High School in Beaumont, while Bennett grad­uated from Bellaire High School in Houston. 
NOTES -The SMU game will be telecast by Sportschannel, while NBC Sports will televise the Ilouston contest. ..Notre Dame is hitting just 32.1 per­cent from the three-point line on the road ...Fredrick has 938 career points, while Hobinson has 915...The Irish are 10-0 when they score 80 or more points...Notre Dame faces nine of the teams in this week's Top 20...The Irish are 7-0 when ahead at halftime... 
Wish your friends a happy birth with Observer 
" Q SEE Cfi~OSO LIVE lOPM F~IDfiY rtiGHT fiT 

0 0 
The Dunk Tank at Late Night Olympics. Friday, February 9 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Proceeds benefit St. Joe County Special Olympics 
sponsored by NVA and The Observer 





Introducing United Litno's New Wait Reduction Plan 
With our new hdurly service to and from O'Hare an Midway, we'll get you there soonerand won't keep you waiting to come home. 
United Limo has always given you the lowest regular fare to and from O'Hare and Midway airports in Chicago. Now we also have the best connections. With service 
every hour of every day from 4 a.m. to 12 midnight.* No longer will you have to endure long waits in lonely and 
unfriendly airport terminals. With our new hourly service, you can make easy departure connections. And chances are there will always be a United Limo bus ready and waiting for you within minutes ofyour arrival. So make a resolution for yourself. Don't put up with that extra wait any longer. Travel in comfort and get where you want to go sooner. With United Limo. 


UnitedLimo 
We'll get you there. 
674·7000 
CUnited Limo • 1990 
10844 McKinley Highway • P.O. Box 287 • Osceola, IN 46561 *Service is hourly all day except last two runs. Call United Limo or your travel agent for schedule. 

------------------~-~------~--­
Thursday, February 8, 1990 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
~ 

. 
Thursday 
6:30p.m. "How to Conduct an Effective Mail Campaign," presented by Paul Reynolds of Career and Placement Ser­vices. Room 124 Hayes-Healy Center. All are invited. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Thursday 
4 p.m. Lecture by John Burgee. Room 207 Architecture Building. Sponsored by School of Architecture. 
4 p.m. 'Prospects for Peace and Democracy in Central America Lecture Series,' "Catholicism and the Central American Crises: The Role of the Church as a Mediator," by Margaret Carhan, Occidental College, Los Angeles. Cen­ter for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
4:15pm Lecture, "Defending Roman Loyalties and Re­publican Values: The 1848 Revolution in American Catholic Popular Literature," by Dr. Sandra Yocum Mize, Theology Dept., Saint Mary's College. Hesburgh Lounge. Sponsored by Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Top Round of Beef Baked Sole w/ Dressing Cheese Enchiladas 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
O'IRST 1 FIGURED 1'0 TR'i i\-1£ SIJSIE 1-lt>.O f\ Ff\CE i\-\f..T 
Dt.RKI~S DAM£. S\JSIE. f>-NO l S\l~E~D ~£.BOO'( Nt'iER ~II II OVF, f:...L-rnOOG\1 \J~S\M~.S 1-1"'-0 f:... W£\RD OCO.S\ONf:...lL'i 't-It: 1-\11 Et>.C~ St.t-lS£ 01= il.UMOR, BIJ\ [ 
c>1t-\~R.. W~SNT GOING TO \\ER PL~Cf 6·1·~-FOR lP-.UGil.S. I !'\~OED 
INVC>RMt>.nON. 
11-\t. WI-'! I LOO~ Po.T 1\, I;£.RI(\N':, A~D A'tlt\Jll.'{ 
SM\JG FOR t>. Df..ME W\\0 \-lt>.D A. 1-1£1\1) RlR !'IIJ\.\BERS 
AND l'tlT MUCH ELSE . 
M~'iBE s.£5 GoT ~E\Hit-IG 0\11 .lKK Po.ND .)()£. 11-\E. 
(}.)Esno~ 1s. '11\U. 'S\\t. Sil-l~? 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


ACROSS 25 Identify again 1 Site of the 
28 Rubberneck Leaning Tower 31 Bikini top 5 Espies 
34 Evasive one 9 Monastery 
36 Screecher 14 Equable 
37 Sir Christopher, 15 AI, the New the architect Orleans 
381nvalids 
trumpeter 41 Summers, in 16 Beats decisively 
Soissons 17 Carry on 
42 Impresario 18 Give someone Hurok: the eye 1888-1974 
19 Social class 43 Diminutive 20Ailing 44 Author Whitten 23 Total of a bill 45 Pegasus, for 
one
24 Words from sponsors 47 Kind of tube 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

GARY LARSON 
11 Kind of whacker 
13 Belgian river 21 Thesaurus man 
THE FAR SIDE 
48 Spring month in Metz 
49 "Rule, Britannia" composer 
51 Ailing 
59 Slyly sarcastic 
60 Haydn's nickname 
61 Kind of jerk 
62 Places 
63 Sanction 
64 "But milk my 
-and weep": Shak. 65 Leaning &&Imparted 67 Pub missile 
DOWN 
1 Land of the Incas 2 Actor Dixon 3Remit 4 Goes before in time 5 Flu preventers 6 Crazy-(card game) 7 Director Kenton 8 Ragout 
9 Ornamental carving on furniture 

EYES 
-
S11ur DowN I?£FU.Si>IG. 
To SEE INfviTA.Bi.* 
R0t1,W1oc lliSit!iTE~ 
.No. 
~ ~ 

COH515TEHTLr 
F"AiLS TO 511Y r----l'o.. 
THE RIGoH T --y-­
THING! 

22 Pinna 
25 Carousal 
26 Gladden 
27Whines 
29-dejouy 
(upholstery fabric) 30 Arista 31 Kind of storm 32 Periodic income, in Paris 
33 Goose genus 35 Bucolic 37 Observed 39 John or Jane 40 An anagram for 
siren 45 Least risky 46 Make moist 48 Paradigm 50 Laughing 51 Pelion's 
supporter 52 Cohort 
53 Small monkey 
54 Girasol 
55 Kin of Patrick 
Dennis? 56 Part of the Louisiana Purchase 57 Central European river 58 Conde, the publisher 
HAIR 

""~'r1N6! PREMittJI¥i.Y l'f~T BE f'ERF"~TL'f Rt'lllt..l 
t~M•o •.,. Ate · ~ ~"1.. ~p SHRINk'S TO TH£ SIZ.~ .----~ OF II PCA liS ALL ·.•_.-: SYNAPSES FliS£. L055 
·~.' OF RA-110/'/,.L THtt/C,iiT. 
KN££5 
Mll~oP~Y 

Lf.AOINCn 1ll TltE ¢::J CL.\5SIC .. WEAl< 
I<AIE£5." 
.. 

• l 
J 
Sports
page 16 Thursday, February 8, 1990 
Irish baseball downs Goshen 3-0 in frigid season opener 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
On a day when an established theory of meteorology went out the window. Notre Dame and Goshen realized Wednesday at Jake Kline Field that at least one rule of baseball is still sa­cred. 
With the temperature at 38 degrees for the opening pitch, the Irish baseball team played its earliest home opener in school history, defeating Goshen 3-0 and proving you ean play baseball in February. Notre Dame had only two hits, but Goshen learned that you can't win if you don't throw the ball over the plate. 
The Irish took advantage of 
I:J walks, eight of which came in the first two innings, to scorn all its runs before a fifth-inning single by Eric Danapalis gave Notre Dame its first hit of the season. 
"Our hitters had no timing at all," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "This was the first time they'd faced live pitching outside." 
The game, which was set up on Tuesday by the opposing coaches, marked the season opener for both teams. 
Notre Dame looked much better from the pitcher's mound than the batter's box. Irish hurlers Alan Walania, David Sinnes and Brian Piotrowicz combined for a three-hit shutout in the seven-inning contest. Shortstop Mark Gerber accounted for all the Goshen hits with two doubles and a single. 
Walania and Piotrowicz looked particularly impressive. 
ND hopes to rebound on Texas trip 
Irish end three-game road swing against SMU, Houston 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
DAI.I.AS -Tlwrn's nothing I ike home sweet home for the Notw Danw mPn's haskPtball tnam. 
Tlw only problem is that the Irish play 15 games away from tlw friendly confines of the .Joyce ACC. 
A three-game road swing continues tonight at 8:30 p.m. EST when Notre Dame meets Soutlwrn Methodist here in Moody Coliseum. The trip will Pnd with a 1 p.m. game at Houston Saturday. 
Tlw road has not been paved with gold for the Irish this sea­son. An overall mark of 11-7 indudes a perfect 8-0 at home and 3-7 on the road. The latest setback was by a 88-76 count Sunday at fourth-ranked Duke. 
"We'vll got to get these two," Notre Dame coac.h Digger Phelps said. "Anything can happen, We've got 10 games left against good people." 
A comparison between home and road statistics is amazing. The Irish average 41.5 re­bounds per game at home and just 35.1 on the road. They seore 92.8 points at the JACC, but the figure drops to 74.6 in away games. 
Perhaps shooting has been 

NEW YOHK (AI') -The College Football Association, trying to plug a huge hole in its teltwision package left by the dnfflCtion of Notrn Dame, ralliPd its members Wednesday as schools denounced the greed of the Fighting Irish. 
The CFA. formed in 1977 to negotiate TV rights separate from the NCAA. messaged its 64 members not to folrow Notre Dame's lead. At the same time, CFA executive director Chuck
• 
Neinas set up a conference call Wednesday afternoon, presumably for the same purpose. 
"The CFA is re-negotiating with ABC and ESPN," Arkansas athletic director frank Broyles said. "We'll see what the money is without Notre Dame." 
On Monday, NBC-TV and 
L-

Elmer Bennett 
the biggest downfall for Notre Dame, especially in recent games with Louisiana State in New Orleans and the Blue Devils. Against the Tigers in New Orleans, the Irish shot a season-low 34 percent and then connected on just 29 percent of their shots in the first half with Duke. 
"Obviously, you're going to be more relaxed at home," Phelps said. "Because we're 3-7 on the road. you press harder, you aren't as patient." 
That was evident at Duke where the Irish jumped to a 4-0 lead. but then faltered. They never regained that spark and eventually dug a big hole. 
We started that game per­fectly," Phelps said. "Then there 
FA attacks 'greedy' Notre arne for contract with NB 
Notre Dame announced that thny had signed a live-year. $30 million deal to televise six home games a year beginning in 1991, removing the Fighting Irish from the CFA's TV package. 
The CFA and ABC agreed to a live-year, $210 million deal last January, and ESPN has a live-year. $110 million contract with the CFA that begins in 1991. 
Steve Bornstein, ESPN exec.utive vice president and the No. 2 man at the cable network, said he still was hopeful Notre Dame would be included in the CFA package. 
"Hopeful, but I'm not sure it's reasonable to expect," Bornstein said. "We're talking to everybody right now. but our primary 
see GREED I page 14 
tion for a freshman," said Murphy. "lie has great poise. He didn't throw his breaking ball today. We felt it was too early in the season." 
Sinnes, another freshman, allowed one hit, walked four and struck out two in one and 

'"'•lil~il• one-third innings of work. 1•il11WIIIIIIIilll!ll• "lie's got great stuff, but his iii'' concentration wasn't there," Murphy said. 
Notre Dame got on1~ run in the first inning. when Frank Jacobs scored on a passed ball 

Brian Plotrowlcz by Goshen's Craig Chupp. The Walania, a draft ehoice of the Irish had loaded the bases on Houston Astros last summer. walks by Jacobs, Ed Lund and allowed a leadoff single to Mike Hotkis against losing Gerber, then retired the next pitcher Jamie Phiiiips. nine batters in order. Phillips walked in Notre Piotrowicz retired eight of the Dame's next run in tlw second nine batters he faced, striking inning. After issuing passes to out four, to earn the win. Dan Bautch, Mike Coss and 
"Alan's got great concentra-Jacobs, Phillips walked Lund to seore Bautch from third. 
Notre Damp's third run came on a fifth-inning sacrifice fly by Jon Binkiewiez, which scornd pinchrunnnr Tommy AllPn from third base. Allen was pinch­running for Corey MeP, who had walklld on four pitches. 
The only hits for thP Irish came on back-to-hack singles by Danapalis and Bautch with two outs in the fifth inning. Bautch's hit carne on a bunt down thP third-base line. 
"Obviously we have a lot more talPnt than Goshen, but on a cold day like this. talPnt's elim­inated," said Murphy. "The score of the game is not indicativn of the typP of tPam wn have. But we'rt' not tough yet. We have a long way to go. 
se~ GOSHEN I pag_e 13 
was a turnover, a foul. a shot 
we should have hit. .." 
Tonight marks the first time since 1948-49 that Notre Dame and SMU have met in Dallas. The Irish won last year's con­test 67-45 at home. 
Formnr Notre Dame standout and assistant coach .John Shumatn guides the Mustangs. lie took that position last sea­son after two stints as an as­sistant under Phelps. 
''I'm sure Shumate will have them ready to play hard against us," Phelps said. "It's not what they want to do, it's what we want to do. We just have to put the ball in the hole." 
SMU lost its third straight game and sixth in seven outings with an 83-43 loss to Texas Christian Saturday. The forty­point loss equaled SMU's worst-ever-Florida routed the Mustangs 110-70 in the 1986­87 season. 
SMU, 7-12 overall and 2-7 in the Southwestern Conference, uses a three-guard offense and is led by forward John Colbrone, who averages 17.4 points per game and 6.5 re­bounds. Forward Vernon Perdue scores 9.6 ppg and 5.4 rpg. 
The three guards round out 
see TEXAS I page 14 

Irish ready to host MCC showdown 
By JANICE ARCHER 
Sports Writer 
Looking to repeat as winners for the third year in a row, the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams begin competition today in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships. 
"I think the conference is ex­cited to be coming here," Irish head coach Tim Welsh said. "I am expecting good races all across the board, with fast times in all places." 
The preliminaries for the events will take place at 11 a.m. today and Friday, and at 10 
a.m. Saturday. 
The eight fastest swimmers will compete in the champi­onship finals, while the next eight fastest race in the conso­lations. 
The finals for the twenty scheduled events begin at 7 
p.m. on Thursday and Friday, 
and 6 p.m. Saturday. Diving competitions are also on the schedule, with prelimi­naries on Thursday at 4 p.m. Finals will take place Friday at 4 p.m. for the women, and 4 
p.m. Saturday for the mnn. 
Both the men's and women's teams have won the champi­onships for the Irish two years in a row, and seem to be the fa­vored teams to emerge vietori­ous again. The seven other members of the conference are Butler, Dayton, Detroit, Evansville, Loyola, St. Louis and Xavier. 
Sophomore Jim Birmingham, last year's Outstanding Performer of the meet for the men's competition, is expected to turn in another impressive exhibition for Notre Dame. In the 1989 championships, he took first place in the 50, 100, 200 and 500-yard freestyle events. 

Other swimmers to look for are Butler's Jan Borgerhoff, who took the 200 individual medley and the 100 and 200­yard breaststrokes. Mike Wandling, a past winner in thP 1650 freestyle, will help the Evansville squad. Evansville won the championships from 1984-87. 
"The men's field will be faster at key positions in all the races," noted Welsh. "Both the team and individual races will be tighter." 
The Irish will be putting forth a young women's squad to compete in the next three days. 12 of the 18 women racing are freshmen or sophomores. They will be facing a strong group of freestyle swimmers from St. Louis, led in part by Patti Martin, last year's winner of the 100 butterfly. 
All of the teams, except Loyola, have been to Holfs Aquatic Center for the MCC Dual Meet, which was held on Oct. 14. Although the meet was held in a scrimmage format, it began the conference season. Familiarity with their sur­
see MCC I page 14 




