

VOL. XXIII NO. 130 TUESDAY , APRIL 24, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Freshmen applications drop by 700; N D accepts 31 00 
By VALLI VAIRAVAN 
News Writer 
Tlwrn has bnon a decrease in thn nurnbor of high school stu­dnnts who appliod to Notre Danw this ynar. t~omparod to tlw n~conl high number of ap­plirants last yPar. according to 1\Pvin Hoorwy. director of Un­dprgrad uatP Ad missions. 
On April 4. tlw Notre Dame Admissions Ofllrn mailod out dPdsion lnttPrs to tlw 9,150 students who appliod to Notro l>anw. i\1~cording to Hooney, 3,100 applicants wNe aeeopted to tlw Univ1~rsity for tho up­coming yoar. About 700 are on tlw waiting list, and may be admitWd in lato May or oarly .June. 
Tho nurnbnr of students ap­plying to Notrn Dame de­cmasod by about 700 sinen last year. llowovnr, Hooney pointed out that tho applkant pool last year was the largest one in Notro Dame's history. 
"Tiw applicant pool this year was a littlo smaiiN, but it was the most taltmted that we have 1wer had. so tho combination of llw two factors-the decrease in applications but thn increase in quality-nwant that we were making vnry similar deeisions to a year ago," said Hooney. 
Tlw Admissions Office fwalu­atf~s candidates for both aca­demic and non-academic achievement and potential, ac­eording to Hoonny. Every appli­cation is rnad by at least two staff nwmbnrs, who look at an applicant's grades. dass rank, high school curriculum, level of competition within the high school, as well as test scores, teacher evaluations and essays. 
The extracurricular activities and personal statnment give the admissions officer a sense of the applicant's non-academic aehiovement. 
Applications are then re­viewed by an admissions committee, consisting of 11 of­ficers. "It is a very thorough review process," which lasts from November to April, Rooney said. 
The average SAT score for the admitted group of appli­cants is 1250, and the average class rank is in the top five per­cent. 
Approximately 1,000 admit­ted students have been desig­nated Notre Dame Scholars. These students arc viewed as "the strongest of the admitted group," according to Rooney. 
The male-female ratio of the incoming freshman elass is ex­pected to be similar to the pre­vious three classes, which is roughly 64 percent male to 36 percent female. The minority enrollment 'is expected to be about the same as in the pre­sent freshman class. at 16 per­cent, he said. 
There has been a small in­crease in the number of inter­national students who applied and were admitted, while appli­cations continued to be received from across the United States. 
see U.S./ page 4 

Kolman to head Freshman Year 

By JANICE O'LEARY 
Associate News Editor 
Eileen Kolman, associate 

provost of the University of 
Notre Dame, has been 
named Dean of the Fresh­
man Year of Studies. 
Kolman joined the Notre Dame administration in Au­gust of 1989 and she will as­sume her new position in August 1990, succeeding the retiring Emil Hofman, pro­fessor emeritus of chemistry and dean of Freshman Year since 1971. 
In making the appoint­ment, Provost Timothy O'Meara commented, "In a very short time, Dr. Kolman has shown remarkable abil­ity to grasp the academic culture of Notre Dame. This asset, plus her broad experi­ence in higher education, gives me great confidence that she will meet the chal­lenge of such a key position in the University." 
Kolman said it was prema­ture for her to speak of any changes she might wish to make. She first wants to meet with the staff and read the report on Freshman Year of Studies prepared by Student Government. 
"freshman Year of Studies has such a good reputation" in higher education, Kolman said. "I want to build on its strengths and add new di­mensions." 
"Change-over is an oppor­tunit to re-examine thin s 
• 1-) 
~::~:"' 
i. 


Eileen Kolman 

we have done and think about new traditions to start," she said. 
"Our Freshman Year of Studies is unique in Ameri­can higher education," O'Meara said, "and its con­tinuing excellence under the outstanding leadership of Emil Hofman is a source of pride to all of us. There will be changes, of course, but they will evolve from a firm foundation. The Freshman Year's primary purpose is to introduce young women and men into the rigors and re­wards of the intellectual life ... " 
As associate provost, Kol­man's responsibilities have included women's concerns, academic affirmative action, faculty problems, HOTC, and policies on the handicapped, according to Richard Con­klin, director of Public Rela­tions and Information. · 
Kolman described her position as associate provost as a "wonderful overview of the Universit . It 
Liberals, conservatives fire arguments at panel debate 
By FRANK RIVERA 
News Writer 
The conservatives have "bastardized their priorities," according to Mike Schadek, but fellow senior Jim McCarthy ac­cused liberals of attempting to unseat the traditional estab­lished government "in the name of a socialized Utopian vision." 
Accusations and dialogue were exchanged as Schadek and McCarthy. along with a panel of four Notre Dame pro­fussors, took part in a Student Union Board-sponsored debate on liberalism and conservatism Monday night. 
"Liberalism/Conservatism: Their Hoots and Their Conse­quences," featured Professors James Carberry and Bernard Norling and McCarthy repre­senting the conservative view­point. Professors Teresa Ghi­larducci and John Houck and Schadek, meanwhile, repre­sented the liberal viewpoint. 
"We at.l know what 'conservative' means," said Schadek in his opening stateJ ment, "quite simply, the rich get richer and the poor get poorer." 
"Conservative tradition is not 
an ideology," said Carberry. 
"Conservative tradition is not a is like standing on the fourteenth noor of the li­brary and looking out." 
"I especially enjoyed work­
ing  with  O'Meara,"  she  
added.  
Kolman  will  remain  as  

chairperson of the Fac­ulty/Student Committee on Women at Notre Dame and of the Committtw on the Year of Women. 
The recipient of a Ph.D. in higher education from Loy­ola University, Chicago, in 1987, Kolman was assoeiatc dean and coordinator of in­stitutional planning at Mount St. Joseph in Cincin­nati for three years prior to coming to Notre Dame. 
Previously she held posi­tions in institutional plan­ning at Elmhurst College and in the graduate school at Loyola and also dean of stu­dents at St. Xavier College, Chicago, and at Albertus Magnus College, New Haven. 
Her undergraduate degree from Ohio Dominican Col­lege in Columbus was in mathematics, and she earned an M.Ed. from Boston College, according to Conklin. 
The Freshman Year began in 1962 at Notre Dame to give freshman students one year of a common ed uc:a­tional exporience before choosing a major in one of the four undergraduate col­leges. It is often cited as one of the major reasons Notre Dame's retention rate is among the highest in the na­tion, said Conklin. 

vatism is "more soundly based" due to the fact that it is based on past occurrences. llo criti­cized the JibP.rals for trying to implement change too rapidly, stating that in order to survive, a society must absorb chang11 at a much slower rate. 
''I'm not surprised the eon­servatives have concentrated on the roots of conservative phi­losophy," said Ghilarducci, "because the effects arc very sorry." 
Liberals are accused of repre­
senting only spt~cial interest 
groups, but special interest 
groups reprnsent 99 percent of 
the population. said Ghilar­
ducci. 
According to Jlouek, liberals 
have held five issues of impor­
tance in the last 40 years. 
These include: racism and sex­
ism; thP. cold war; intPilectual 
and academic freedom; the 
poor; and the status of women. 
McCarthy pointed out that under the conservatives unem­ployment and inflation have fallen while the Gross National Product has risen. 
After their opening remarks, the participants made their re­buttals. This was followed by a question-and-answer period, in which the panel fielded ques­
The Observer/John Culver 

The liberal position was taken by (top, from left): Professor John Houck, student Mike Schadek and Profes­ creed.  Nor is it religion.  It is a  tions posed by the audience and  
sor Teresa Ghilarducci in last night's debate. Shown below are (from left) Law Professor Fernand Dutile, who  historically-based, philosophi­ selected by moderator Fernand  
served as moderator, and conservative speakers Professor James Carberry, Professor Bernard Norling and  cal view of man."  Dutile,  a  professor in the Law  
student Jim McCarthy. The speakers exchanged quips on the merits of their beliefs.  Norling added  that conser- School.  


....----~---­
page 2 INSIDE COLUMN 
These guys 
play hoops 



and wear tutus 
We never came--------­anywhere near the fi­nals. But we were proud, by God. Proud to have been members of the coolest team in last year's Bookstore Basketball Tourna­ment. What team was 
the coolest in 1989's Peter Loftus tourney, you ask? Was it Assistant News Editor Adworks? Malicious Prostitution? 
Heck, no. It was Five Guys Who Aren't Afraid to Wear Tutus While Playing Basket­ball! We were cool, and we were bad. I don't mean Michael Jackson bad. I mean we were bad--as in not good at playing basketball. 
But we had our tutus. 
We bought blue and pink tutus at some hosiery store at the mall for about $8 each. Our center even went so far as to have his custom made--a beautiful white tutu dotted with green shamrocks. And our point guard wore some multicolored spandex un­derneath his pink tutu. The effect was daz­zling. 
Were we afraid to wear tutus? Perhaps. We all did a couple of shots before heading out to Stepan for the first round. 
Game time found us standing around con­cealing our uniforms with overcoats. After the suspension was built to an appropriate level, we unveiled the tutus. 
The crowd went wild (30 people). 
I suppose you want to hear details of the game. Well, it was ugly. The other team was made up of a bunch of architecture stooges, and, to be honest, they weren't very good, either. 
But they were out there to win. And we weren't. 
Our center, Dante, was 6-foot four inches, 250 pounds. However, his basketball-play­ing experience was very limited--virtually non-existent. And his vertical leap? Let's just say I could count the inches on one hand. The rest of us weren't very good, ei­ther. In fact, we were terrible. We would launch 20-foot jumpers, and the crowd would yell, "Good pass!" 
But we had our tutus. At halftime we were losing by 8. We dreaded the second half. 
But something amazing happened. Big Dante had new life breathed into him. He came out punching. His first time down the court, he scored! 
As I ran down the court to set up for de­fense, I turned and saw Dante, clad in a monstrous white tutu, performing ballerina moves all the way down the court. A pirou­ette here! A plie there! It was a graceful display. 
Well, in spite of six baskets from Dante in the second half, we lost 21-10. But our team name made the pages of both The Observer and Scholastic. 
And we had our tutus. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7 4 71 Today's Staff: 
Systems
Production News 
Gilbert Gomez 
Wendy Cunningham Amy Leroux Deb Walker
Jeanne Blasi Monica Yant Pete Yob 
SpOI1s Accent Graphics Scott Brutocao Catherine Danahy Bradford J. Boehm 
Ad Design 
V.ewpolnt Amy Eckert 
Circulation
Julie Shepherd Kristi Rolke Chris Hanley
Usa Eaton Myndy Crist Kelly McHugh Lu Medeiros 
Quinn Satepauhoodle 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fridav except during exam and vacation periods The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer Tuesday, April 24, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 24. Lines show high temperatures. 
80 
60 
FRONTS: 

COLD WARM STATIONARY ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc 
.-~------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~
Pressure 

h--.. ~ 
X

® © ~ ~ [Til C] [22J 
~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW
L--------------------------------------------~-c_E__s_u_N_N_Y__P_r_c_L_ou_o_Y___cL_o_u_o_Y~ 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
There will be a Foreign study send-off party for participants of both past and next year's ND/SMC pro­grams. Pizza and soda will be served at Theodore's today from 4:30-5:30 p.m. 
Potential Irish Guard members are invited to an in­formational meting about next year's tryouts. It will be held today at 5 p.m. on the 2nd floor of LaFortune in the Notre Dame room. Direct questions to Craig at 283-4075. 
Interested in marketing or relations? Student Union Board is interviewing for positions as account ex­ecutives, artists, marketing research commissioners, in­ternal relations and external relations. Call the SUB Sec­retary at 239-7668 to set up an interview or come to the office on 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
WORLD 
Paulette Goddard, the wide-·~ 
eyed, waiflike actress who co-starred with husband Charlie Chaplin in films such as "The Great Dictator" died yes­terday at her home in southern Switzerland. A municipal employee in the village of Ronco said official records show the actress was born June 3, 1905, making her 84. However, 
reference books give her year of birth as 1911 or 1915. The employee said the exact cause of death was not known "but one could assume she died of old age." She starred with Chaplin as a member of the Hal Roach Stu­dio company. Their marriage ended in divorce in 1942. 
NATIONAL 
Elizabeth Taylor was in serious condition Monday Shareholders of Exxon Corp. tomorrow will con­following surgery to determine the cause of pneumonia sider six proposals seeking to make the company more 
that has kept the actress hospitalized for more than two weeks, her doctors said. "She is seriously ill and on Sun­day underwent a lung biopsy to further determine the cause of her pneumonia," her doctors said yesterday. 
INDIANA 

The Fort Wayne-Allen County Board of Health reports four women have tested positive for the AIDS virus for the first time in the Fort Wayne area. All of the women who tested positive last year were between the ages of 22 and 37, said Jeff Markley, disease intervention specialist. 
Alison Paige Whisman is believed to be the first recipient of a heart from an infant twin. The 13-day-old received the heart in Indianapolis from her late brother. ''I'd say her prognosis is good, but all patients that have had a heart transplant you have to watch," said Dr. Randall Caldwell, associate professor of pediatrics at the Indiana University School of Medicine. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Volume in shares 
136.15 Million 


NYSE Index 181.93 .or 2.13 S&P Composite 331 .05 .or 4.07 Dow Jones Industrials 2,666.67 {!r29.28 
Precious Metals Gold {7 $2.90 to $378.90 1oz. 
Silver{} .8¢ to $5.10 1oz. 
Source: AP 
ecologically responsive. Management opposes all six pro­posals, which range from requiring Exxon to report an­nually on its environmental performance to promising to eliminate or reduce carbon dioxide or toxic emissions. 
Career and Placement Services would like to help seniors moving to a new city after graduation find roommates/house mates. Stop down at the office and add your name to the "Information Exchange" listing now and then check back often. 
The Senior Class invites anyone to attend a lecture concerning money management after college tonight at 
6:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Jan DaBrowiak and Chuck Lennon will be speaking. 
University President Father Edward Malloy will speak informally tonight about his involvement with CILA, particularly the time he spent in Mexico. The discussion will take place after Sorin's 11 p.m. mass. 
Sudan's military ruler said loyalist forces thwarted a coup attempt in Khartoum by army officers yesterday, arr~sted th?se involved and quickly restored peace to the Afncan natiOn. Lt. Gen. Omar Hassan ei-Bashir the coun­try's military leader, said the coup attempt was' led by ac­tive and retired military officers. It was the second re­ported attempt in a month to overthrow the ruling junta. A government spokesman said most of the rebels surren­dered without a fight and there were no casualties. Sources ~n Kh~rtoum said one soldier was slightly wounded m a bnef shootout. EI-Bashir said the coup was easily suppressed because the plotters had been under surveillance by authorities from the start of the attempt. 
ALMANAC 

OnApril24: e In 1704: The first American newspaper printed on a regular basis, the Boston News Letter, was published for the first time. e In 1898: Spain declared war on the United States after re­jecting America's ultimatum to withdraw from Cuba. In 1953: British statesman Winston Churchill was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II at Buck­ingham Palace. e In 1961: Following the Bay of Pigs fiasco, the White House issued a statement by President Kennedy in which he accepted "sole responsibility." 
Yesterday's high: 73 Yesterday's low: 45 Nation's high: 94 (Chamberlain, S.D. and Presidio, Tex.) Nation's low: 32 (Elkins, W.V). 
Forecast: Partly sunny and warm today. Highs around 80. Partly cloudy and mild tonight. Lows from the upper 50s to around 60. Partly sunny
and warmer VVednesday with a 30 percent chance of thunderstorms. Highs inthelower80s. 

~~-­
Tuesday, April 24, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Kremlin's blockade leaves Lithuania's oil supply dry 
VILNIUS. U.S.S.H. {AP) -fort to make the republic of 3.8 Lithuania's only refinery dosed million people rescind laws re­Monday when the Kremlin's sulting from its March 11 dec­economic blockade dried up oil laration of independence from supplies. and tho United States the Soviet Union. was reported to bn readying The refinery in the north­economic penalties against western town of Mazheikiai Moscow becausn of its crack­produced gasoline for the re­down. public as well as for Estonia, 
Prime Minister Kazimiera Latvia and Byelorussia. It pro­Prunskienn said the defiant re­cessed about 12 million tons of public might have to resort to petroleum products a year and selling some of its gold reserves Lithuania used a quarter of it. to purchase importod fuel. Lithuania has virtually no 
U.S. officials. speaking on foreign currency to buy oil, but condition of anonymity, said in Prunskiene said Monday the re­Washington that President public might cash in gold re­Bush was expected to brief serves it has in Franee. But she congressional leaders on Tues­told reporters in Moscow that day about his strategy. They the idea had not been approved said among the steps he plans yet, according to lnterfax, a are postponing and withholding news service of Radio Moscow. trade and economic concessions Lithuania needs about $55 tlw Soviets are seeking from million worth of oil a month. the United States. The Bank of France said last 
With the Soviet sanctions month that it would return the pressuring Lithuanians to ease gold in its vaults to Lithuania if their quest for independence, a the French government recog­Lithuanian parliamentary dele­nizes the independent state. gation arrived in Moscow in Lithuania transferred gold now hope of meeting with President worth about $28 million to Mikhail Gorbachev's advisers. France as a precaution in the MUSKEGON, Mich. (AP) -primarily the poor, uneducated care, according to the National 
The refinery at Mazheikiai years before World War II. It's unlikely that Kimberly woman using drugs during Association for Perinatal Ad­operated until Monday on re­Prunskiene told reporters in Hardy, a black welfare mother, pregnancy. diction and Research and Edu­serves, dispatcher Lidiya Sweden on Monday that she and Lynn Bremer, a successful "We're finding that drug ad­cation. 
Cheblakova said in a telephone opened an account at a Swedish white attorney, would ever have diction during pregnancy is a About 14.8 percent of all interview from the refinery. bank to deposit foreign dona­been thrown together if not for problem that crosses all income American babies born last year 
Cheblakova said that with tions for Lithuania. one thing they had in common: and social levels, particularly were exposed to controlled production stopped the re11n­In Vilnius. the Lithuanian cocaine addiction. when it comes to cocaine," said substances before birth, the ery's 2,000 workers were now capital, some bus routes were Bremer joined Hardy last Suzanne Miel-Uken of the organization said. idle. "Tho mood is tense, worri­cut and the main thoroughfare, week ,as two of the first women Michigan Department of Public There are 30 to 40 similar scHnt~." she said. Gedimina Street, was practi­in Michigan to be charged with Health's office of maternal and similar cases pending across 
Soviet officials shut ofT the oil cally devoid of vehicles as delivering cocaine to their ba­child health. the country. pipeline feeding the plant from Lithuanians struggled with ga­bies by allegedly using the drug A study conducted last year in "Think of how many cases of the Hussian city of Polotsk on soline rationing that limits just before giving birth. Pinellas County, Fla., found no drug-addicted births there Wednesday and later curtailed them to about eight gallons a The cases are drawing re­substantial difference in the must be in Detroit -all over natural gas supplies and ship­month for private cars. newed attention not only to the rate of substance abuse be­the state, but women aren't be­ments of other products. The Lithuanian government practice of prosecuting drug­tween pregnant women under­ing prosecuted there," said at­
It was 
one of the toughest ac­has urged all citizens to begin addicted mothers but also to going care in public clinics and to Alan Rapoport of the tions taken in Gorbaehev's ef-conserving everything. the misconception that is it more affluent women in private Union. 

Calllpus Ministry and You 
(N0PUS

A_T_H_E-OL_OG_Y_O_F_E_A_R_TH-DA_Y_______________________ MINISTRY-­

A major criticism of American college students of the 1980's -at Notre Dame as well as elsewhere -was that their primary excitement was over getting their piece of the pie. But It Is most likely the case that students of the 80's were merely reflective of the anthropocentriclsm of the rest of their 1980's American culture, It could be suggested. Certainly at no other period in history had the gap between the rich and the poor grown at a more accelerated rate. Capitalism became the new religion, and replaced Christianity in the modern world. 
The chief sin of Christianity Is narrow self-interest. The chief virtue of capitalism Is narrow self-Interest. "Greed is good; greed works," became one of the most often quoted statements of the decade. It could well become Its epitaph. 
The 80's were also marked by connected phenomenon: government, business and Individual disregard for value in the means used to achieve self-interest. It was considered ok, even positive -to use people to achieve one's own goal, whether through unnecessary lay-offs, convenience killing disguised as birth­control or invasion. h is somehow appropriate that the period ended with an invasion not only self-serving but named "Operation Just Cause". 
Where there Is blatant disregard for value of human life, disregard for what are considered lower forms of life cannot be far removed. Trees were accused by the U.S. president as being the cause of air pollution, while the Japanese destroyed the rain forests. In a capitalist government the Secretary of the Interior handed public lands over to private profiteers while communist nations produced the world's biggest downpour of acid rain. No country on earth took any strong leadership In attempting to reverse the destruction of the world upon which all nations depend lor continued existence, and so God's work on earth now stands In danger of being obliterated. 
The Christian effort on earth Is about building the kingdom of God In the human world in a way that reflects how things are In the divine world -on earth as it Is In heaven. The Christian community Is about building a just society -one In which any person would be pleased to live regardless of position, color, size, orientation or any other personal characteristic. 
When a society has a stated or Implied preference for any given incidental characteristic over any other, that society Is not a just society and the kingdom of God is not only not being built -It Is being undermined and destroyed. There Is not global justice when some nations win and others lose. There Is no global justice when the stronger nations get what they want and can get It at the eKpense of the weaker nations. The world of humanity is God's creation. All things in It reflect who God is. All things In It are Interdependent, as God is Interdependent. It has been said that the world Is God's body-God has no body except the world. God is the soul of the universe; the universe is the body of God. The relationship between God and the universe is the relationship between a human being and his/her body. The world is a self-expression of who God is. 
. a 

God reveals who God Is lncarnatlonally-by becoming embodied. This is not the once-only way God self-reveals. This is the general way God self-reveals. The word becomes flesh. 
Thus the Christian-believing in the risen word of God-considers that God has no hands but our hands, no feet but our feet, no heart but our heart -no body but our body. 
So It is with the earth. The relationship between humanity and its plot of ground and environment is reflective of the relationship between humanity and God. Our God-consciousness is well reflected in how we treat all aspects of God's creation, and so far we're doing a pretty dismal job. 
We've got a global crisis. You've heard the list: each year we eliminate 
thousands of earth's species; topsoil is eroding; rain forests are being destroyed; 
acid rain is causing world-wide destruction; the ozone layer is eroding; earth is polluted; nuclear holocaust is becoming an odds on favorite. 
Our global crisis Is a spiritual crisis. 6o/o of the earth's population uses 40o/o of the earth's nonrenewable resources. That's a spiritual crisis. 6o/o of the earth's population causes 50o/o of the earth's pollution. That's a spiritual crisis. The global crisis Is a problem of our way of life, and our way of life Is a spiritual crisis. 
Since the global crisis is a spiritual crisis, those who are committed to things of the spirit are In the best position to do something about ft. If you've read this column so far, that probably means you. So what can we do? The suggestions are endless, but include: be aware. Don't hide our heads In the polluted sand, assuming that everything will work out alright -It always has. 
Respect the rest of creation. Give things the right to exist on their own, rather 
than merelv In terms of their benefit to ourselves. Conserve. Recyde. Don't use non-biodegradable products. Don't assume that God stands ready to pull off the six day creation trick yet again, should we destroy the earth. It has taken God 20 billion years to get to this point, and we are on the verge of destroying It all in very little time. 
We can eat lower on the food chain. Stop using fluorocarbons. Shop wisely and only from and of those companies and products who support In action the causes of the whole earth. Vote wisely. 
But most of all, understand the problem of the earth to be a problem of the Spirit. We can learn and act responsibly so that our hands and minds to give Nfe to the planet that needs humans knowing they are the Body of Christ to keep all creation one. If earth is to IUrvlve and remain, there can remain no further narrow 
self-Interest. 
a 


Brought to you Meldy by the 0111ae of 01n1pue llkllslry .ncl The Obaerver 
----~~-----~-~-~~------------­
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, April 24, 1990 
Chamorro takes office Wed., faces sea of national woes 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) -Diehard Contra rebels, an economy in such poor shape that it is not producing enough food for its people and opposi­tion from the outgoing Sandin­istas are among the problems facing Violeta Chamorro when she takes office Wednesday. 
The effort to find solutions in Central America's largest re­public is made more difficult because her United National Opposition is a 14-party coali­tion that spans the political spectrum from communists to conservatives. 
But Chamorro will be taking over following the mandate of free elections on Feb. 25, some­thing rare in this tropical na­tion of 3.5 million residents. Nicaragua has been ruled by autocratic and oppressive gov­ernments much of the time since it gained independence in 1821. 
"It's the beginning of democ­racy in Nicaragua," Chamorro said when she and Vice Presi­dent-elect Virgilio Godoy were officially presented with their election certificate Monday by the Supreme Electoral Council. 
Nevertheless, it will be a tough start for Chamorro, 61, a newspaper publisher who has little political and no govern­mental experience. She has been relying on a team of expe­rienced advisers to develop economic plans and negotiate 



u.s. 
continued from page 1 
According to Rooney, no geo­graphical quotas are set by the Admissions Office. 
"We expect that the incoming freshmen class will be a very strong one, similar to the ones that we have seen in recent years," commented Rooney. 
with fractious Contras and Sandinistas. 
The Contras are foremost among the problems her administration faces. They have been fighting the Sandinistas for nine years and don't want to demobilize, as they promised to do so by June 10, unless the army is purged of Sandinista officers. 
Chamorro's team has agreed to "respect the professional status" of the Sandinista army hut forbid its officers to hold 
American Heart Association 
ROB GERBERRY IS FINALLY 
21! 

''I 
,;J 
~ 


JUST WAIT TIL TONIGHT!! FROM THE 353 GUYS 


any positions in political par­ties. 
The Sandinista interpretation of that became clear Monday when the party announced all military and security forces on active duty have stepped down from party leadership posts. 
Defense Ministry spokesman Lt. Carlos Lara said he did not know how many officers were affected, but said they included Defense Minister Humberto Ortega, brother of outgoing President Daniel Ortega, and Maj. Gen. Joaquin Cuadra, the deputy defense minister. 
Those changes probably will not be enough to convince many Contras that the army is no longer under Sandinista con­trol. Some Contras want their officers to replace Sandinista officers, which could lead to conflict with still-militant San­dinistas. 
Chamorro has repeatedly said Nicaragua cannot support a big army anyway -the econ­omy, hurt over the years by a 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF 
An opportunity, In d181ogue with othttr8, to deepen your u~rstandlng of yournH, your values, your relationship wHh Christ, your experience of Christian community and Hrvlce. 
PLAN NOW FOR THE FALL! 
-= 
RETREAT DATES: September 7-1, 1990 
APPUCATIONS 
ACCEPTED: 


CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Ubrary 239-7800 
COST: $20.00 
Do you find yourself sittin' around listening to MUSIC or watching MOVIES a lot? YEAH. Well you might as well get paid to do it! 



JI'IHIJE ((:JEJ1J1&JE. 
is now ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS for the '90-'91 school year. Pick one up in the store today but remember, you gotta be work study: The deadline is Tuesday, May 1st 
now-ended U.S. embargo and ineffectual Sandinista policies, is in shambles. 
Inflation in 1988 hit 33,600 percent until the Sandinistas curbed spending and brought it down last year to 1,800 per­cent. Even so, the Chamorro administration will have to do a lot of belt-tightening to bring it to acceptable levels. 
They need to stabilize the currency, attract foreign in­vestment and bring back some of the money people stashed away abroad for safe-keeping. 
As it is, Nicaragua is saddled with a $7 billion foreign debt it can hardly meet payments on and that will need renegotiating with creditor banks. 
President Bush has asked for $300 million in immediate aid to help the Chamorro adminis­tration through its first months in office, but the U.S. Congress has been moving slowly and, in any case, the amount will not solve all problems. 
"We don't have anything, but 
have confidence in Nicaraguans and in our friends from the exterior to recon­struct Nicaragua," she told journalists Monday. 
Chamorro's financial adviser, Francisco Mayorga, says the new administration will not know until after the inaugura­tion how much cash the Trea­sury has. 

Trade

•In JOUr 
If: 

~ 
Now, check out trade-in time at Notre Dame Credit Union where we are now re-writing loans tor all of Michiana at big savings on interest. And, if we re-write your present loan as a home equity loan, you may be able to save even bigger bucks on your taxes next year: 
If you have a car, boat, RV, appliance or home improve­ment loan from any other institution, call our loan trade­in hot line now (288-NDCU) and ask how much we can save you on re-financing. 
Our interest rates have never been better! 
"Consult your tax advisor.

@ 0
lEND[fl 
NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
Separate from the University 
LaFortune 12-8 

Mastercard
JUST BUY CO's VISA 288-NDCU 
Loan trade-In hot line number. 



Tuesday, April 24, 1990 The Observer page 5 
Amtrack train derails in rural Iowa 
More than 30 injured in 15-car accident 
Thn train was carrying 394 passengnrs and about 20 crew nwrnbers, said Debbie llare, an Amtrak spokeswoman in Chicago. 
Thirty-three people sustained injuries serious enough to be taken to hospitals, said Iowa State Patrol Lt. Honald Moon. lie said there were no known fatalities. 
"There could be other minor injuries, we're not aware of that," Moon said. 
Ottumwa Hegional Health Center had been told to expect 70 to 80 patients stemming from the derailment, said Jan­ice Simpson, a hospital spokeswoman. 
The ears began to run off the track just before it reached a crossing on the soutlwrn edge of this town of 525 residents, 90 miles southeast of Des Moines. The cause of the derailment was undN investi­gation. 
PASTA DISHES LASAGNA SfAFOOD RISOTTO SHELLS FLORENTINE STUFFED FLOUNDER EGGPlANT PARMIGIANA CAPPFLLETTI PIZZA 
BANQUET ROOM 


:=:= 

South of Notre Dame's Golden Dome 1412 South Bend Avenue 
The train had 12 passenger cars and three locomotives, llare said. Four ears were left on their side. 
Among the passengers was Wisconsin State Hep. Marlin Schneidf~r. who was returning from the National Conference of State Legislatures in Boise, Idaho, and suffered a bruise to his leg. 
"We were having lunch and suddenly the train carne apart," said Schneider. who was travel­
ing with his two young daugh­
ters. 
"It started to buckle. Cars are orr the tracks everywhere. ... We didn't get hurt very badly but a number of people did." 
Schneider said it was fortu­nate he and his daughters were in the dining car and not in 
"Since 1981" 

@a,.toi'o 
"The Italian Ristorante" 
Dinner 4 p.m. -11 p.m. Sundays 4-9 p.m. (219) 232-4244 

their sleeping car, which tipped over. 
Uninjured passengers were taken to a community center about two blocks away from the crash. 
"The train just started shak­ing," Jasonna Gibson of Sch­enectady. N.Y. said. She said she was holding her baby, Tamu, when the train derailed. 
"The baby fell. I tried to get him and a lady fell on me," Gib­son said. 
Snctions of the California Zephyr originate in Seattle, Los Angeles and Oakland, Calif., and are linked in Salt Lake City for the trip to Chicago, Hare said. 
On Oct. 12, 1987, two loco­motives and 11 or 14 passenger cars of the California Zephyr collided with maintenance equipment on a side track near the town of Bussell, injuring 122 people. That crash was 55 miles west of Monday's derail­ment. 
Also Monday, crews in west­ern Pennsylvania skimmed erude oil from the surface of a creek that was fouled when a freight train derailed and caught fire. Twenty-nine cars in a 97-car Buffalo and Pitts­burgh Hailroad Inc. train derailed in Craigsville, Pa., on Sunday night. No serious in­juries were reported in the en­suing explosion and fire. 
April Special 
Purchase any dinner at regular price and receive another dinner of equal or lesser value at half price with this coupon. 
This offer good daily before6 pm. 
Derailed train burns, leaks chemical, oil into Pa. creek 
CRAIGSVILLE, Pa. (AP) ­Firefighters worked Monday to extinguish four burning train cars and crews skimmed crude oil from the surface of a creek that was fouled when a freight train derailed and caught fire. 
Twenty-nine cars in a 97­car Buffalo and Pittsburgh Railroad Inc. train derailed in this sparsely populated rural community Sunday night. No serious injuries were reported in the ensuing explosion and fire. 
About 100,000 gallons of oil leaked from four cars and up to 10,000 gallons of sodium hydroxide, a caustic chemical used to clean drains, leaked from one car, said John Bell, the railroad's vice president and general manager. 
Two coal cars that caught fire Sunday night continued to burn, and firefighters sought to keep the flames from spreading to other cars. 
Escalating heat caused two oil tankers to burst into flames Monday afternoon, said Lt. Gov. Mark Singe!, visiting the scene. Two other oil cars reached dangerously high temperatures. 
"The situation at present is unstable. There are still isolated fires flaring up on occasion," Singe! said. 
Firefighters sprayed the nil cars with water to cool them, said Bob Walker, haz­ardous materials coordina­tor for Armstrong County's emergency management agency. 
Most of the leaks in the tanker cars were plugged by afternoon, Bell said. 
About 200 people had been evacuated late Sunday, but most were allowed to return home Monday. An evacuation order remained in effect for about 50 people who lived within a quarter-mile of the accident because of the pos­sibility of an explosion, Bell said. 
Although some oil spilled into Buffalo Creek, most of it burned off in the fire, Bell said.The creek flows into the Allegheny Hiver, the source of drinking water for several Pittsburgh-area communi­tics. 

The spill was nxpected to have no significant impact on drinking water supplies, said Charhls Duritsa, a re­gional director for the state Department of Environmen­tal Hesources. 
"The environmental impact was pretty much controlled by teams diking the accident site," Duritsa said. 
Authorities were investi­gating the cause of the crash, Bell said. 
Several of the derailed ears lay in a zigzag pattern, and white smoke poured from burning coal cars Monday afternoon. Fire smoldered in a stream of oil that flowed from one car into a ravine. 
Firefighters used hoses to suck oil and sodium hydrox­ide from the ground. Booms set up along Buffalo Creek skimmed globs of oil from the surface of the water. 
A car that had contained 18,000 to 20,000 gallons or sodium hydroxide had been turned upright. About half of the chemical leaked from an inspection pipe atop the car when it was !lipped upside down in the derailment. 
The two conductors, who were not injured, were given drug and alcohol tests, as is routine after accidents, Bell said. 
Work up to 6 months 1n Bnta1n, Ireland, 
:~~"8~s~~~:."Co~~~~~Wo~~r~~~aP~~ 
gram. the only one ol1ts k1nd 1n the U.S cuts 
through all the red tape' 
Call for FREE brochures on work programs. 
d1scount a1r lares. language courses. and 
more. 
Counctl on lnt'l Educattonal EKchange 
(U.S. Sponsor a/the tnt'/ Student 1.0 Card) 
BATAVIA, Iowa (API -A 15­car Amtrak passenger train derailed Monday. injuring more than .:Hl of the 400 people aboard, authorities said. 
Nine cars of the eastbound California Zephyr derailed about I :25 p.m. on Burlington Northern tracks, authorities said. 
"It made a lwll of a noise and then all kind of dust started !lying." said Hobert Franklin ol Batavia. 
"It was just one big, loud bang. Kind of like a dankety, dang," said his wife. Patricia. 
Amtrak Derailment 

All Junior Accounting & Finance Majors Arthur Andersen presents: Preparing for the Fall Interviewing Process Tuesday, April 24, 1990 5:00PM Monogram Room Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center Dress is Casual Pizza & Refreshments to Follow  


page 6 
SECURITY BEAT 
FRIDAY, APRIL 20 

3:21 a.m. A Pasquerilla East Hall resi· dent reported seeing a suspicious MIW along US 33 on two different occasions. Both times, the man was seen carrying a gas can and approaching people. 
7:55 a.m. Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a two car accident at the corner of Edison and Juniper Roads. No injuries were reported. 
2:17 p.m. A Carroll Hall student re­ported the theft of an unlocked bicycle from outside O'Shaughnessy Hall. His loss is estimated to be $150. 
5:30p.m. A resident of Carroll Hall re­ported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from outside the Math·Computer Build­ing. His loss is estimated at $209.95. 
9:12 p.m. A Grace Hall resident re­ported an assault and battery at the corner of Douglas and Ironwood Road. Two M/W attacked the victim and his car with their fists and beer bottles. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 21 

12:46 a.m. Notre Dame Police re­sponded to the report of an accident on University Village Drive. An unknown person had been driving the vehicle too fast for conditions. The car then spun out of control and into the grass. Dam­age to the grass sod is estimated at $300. 
3:53 a.m. A Pasquerilla East Hall resi­dent reported being approached by a man near the power plant. The victim had been riding her bike at the time of the incident. 
8:30 p.m. A bartender at the Morris Inn reported that while she was on break, two students entered the bar and re­moved two bottles of liquor. 
10:15 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a Texas resident for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit. The defendant had been travelling 47 mph in a 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
SUNDAY, APRIL 22 

1
:30 a.m. A resident of St. Edward's Hall reported that his jacket was stolen from a dance in the Monogram Room. His loss is estimated to be $60. 

1
:30 a.m. A visitor to the University re­ported the theft of her camera from the Monogram Room in therJ_A\)C. 


4:30 a.m. A Siegfried Hall resident re­ported the theft of two jackets as well as her coin purse and contents from the Monogram Room. Her loss is estimated to be $280. 
5 a.m. A Badin Hall resident reported the theft of her jacket from the Mono­gram Room ol the JACC. Her loss is es­timated at $200. 
l-IDFullyAutographed FIHilhall 
~,.~.......,
..,..., .. 
.........~ 




--~-.... 
GETA 

REAL JOB! 
The Passionist Lay Missions Program offers a variety of ministry opportunities designed to bring the missioner closer to the realities of the struggle of the poor in inner-city Chicago and Detroit. For a copy of our "job lists" for August 1990-August 1991, please complete and mail attached coupon. 
passionist lay missioners 
Please send me your jobs list for 1990-1991 and more info. about the program. 
AdWreu.________________ 
Oty/State --------
Dp _______________ 
5700 North Harlem Avenue Chicago, IL 60631 312-631 
--·------------------------~-----------­
The Observer Tuesday, April 24, 1990 
Environmentalists protest Wall Street's nature crimes 
NEW YORK (AP)-Hundreds of environmentalists demon­strated yesterday in the finan­cial districts of New York and San Francisco, where post­Earth Day demonstrators shat­tered windows at the Bank of America. Authorities said 249 people were arrested. 
Also in California, hand-deliv­ered messages claimed respon­sibility Monday for vandalism that cut power to some 92,000 Pacific Gas & Electric cus­tomers in Santa Cruz and Wat­sonville. 
In New York, police arrested about 185 of an estimated 700 demonstrators. 
"The major corporations have committed a lot of crimes against nature," said Marc Ch­ernoff, 30, a member of New York's Coalition for a Nuclear Free Harbor. "It's long overdue to place the blame where it di­rectly belongs. If the products that pollute were not made available, people would not buy them." 
Trade on the New York Stock Exchange went on as scheduled and none of the protesters got inside. "Except for getting up a little early, it's a pretty normal day," said the exchange's se­nior vice president, Richard Torrenzano. 
At the Pacific Stock Exchange in San Francisco, 49 people were arrested during a demon­stration by 300 to 500 protesters that turned violent when some broke windows at Bank of America, threw golf balls, rocks and eggs at police, and overturned newsstands. 
Ce Ce's Legal 

Happy Birthday Party Girl Love Mom & Dad 





NOTICE TO 
As part of the graduation process, federal 
have borrowed from the Stafford Loan Program (formerly Guaranteed Student Loan) and the Supplemental Loan for Students (SLS) to attend an exit interview before leaving the University. The exit interview will review your rights and responsibilities for repaying your loan(s), deferment options and loan consolidation benefits. 
~or your convenience, we have scheduled ten exit interview sessions. Please plan on attending one. 
Tuesday, April 24th 2:00-2:30 P.M. LaFortune 2:45-3:15 P.M. Notre Dame Room 3:30-4:00 P.M. 
Wednesday, April 25th 7:00-7:30 P.M. LaFortune 7:45-8:15 P.M. Notre Dame Room 8:30-9:00 P.M. 
Thursday, April 26th 6:30-7:00 P.M. LaFortune 7 : 15-7: 4 5 P.M. Notre Dame Room 8:00-8:30 P.M. 8:45-9:15 P.M. 
ro prepare for the exit interview it will be necessary to know the name of your lender(s) and the total amount of your Stafford and SLS borrowing while at Notre Dame. If you need assistance gathering this information, contact the Financial Aid Office. Please allow one day for processing. 
The exchange also opened on 
schedule although some em­
ployees were delayed. 
Police closed off two blocks 
of Wall Street to traffic and all 
pedestrians except those work­
ing there. Traffic elsewhere 
was disrupted during the 
morning and afternoon whP.n 
protesters walked through lower Manhattan streets. 
The protest was organized by Earth Day Wall Street Action, which described itself as a coalition of 60 environmental organizations in the United States and Canada. It said it wanted to focus attention on "institutions responsible for much of the ecological devasta­tion which is destroying the planet." 
"I don't know why they're protesting against Wall Street," said James Dean, 24, an auditor with J.P. Morgan. "I don't think anyone is taking this seriously besides them." 
"I think it's great that these guys in suits are stopping to 
hear us," said Debbie Augus­tine, 34, of Loudon, N.H., a member of the anti-nuclear power Clamshell Alliance. 
A spokesman for the San Francisco demonstrators, 
Daniel Finkenthal of the Earth Day Action Coalition, said the 
purpose of the protest there was to give the public an alter­native to the corporate-spon­sored views of environmental actiop that preceded Earth Day. 
Elsewhere, the day after Earth Day was the day to clean up the trash left by the crowds who gathered to celebrate a cleaner Earth. 
AP Photo A demonstrator wearing a protective mask joins hundreds of others in a Post-Earth Day protest in front of the New York Stock Exchange. 

SOPHOMORES & JUNIORS 
INTERESTED IN STUDY OVERSEAS 
AFfER GRADUATION? 
THEN ATTEND AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING TO LEARN ABOUT RHODES, MARSHALL, AND OTHER SCHOLARSHIPS 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25 4:00 ROOM 121, LAW SCHOOL 

GRADUATES 
regulations require all students who 
~----­

Viewpoint
Tuesday, April 24, 1990 page 7 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor....................... Kelley futhill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accent Editor ...... ~ .......... Colleen Cromn Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson 
The Observer IS the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the UniverSity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admimstra11on of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately and obJeCtively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ol the majority of the Editor~in~Chief. Managmg Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor~ Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
SafeWalk, Security promote campus safety 
Warm weather has finally reached South Bend, and Notre Damn and Saint Mary's students are staying outdoors both longer and later. lligh spirits and fair weather should not lull students into a false sense of security, however. A distinction must be made between being carel'n~e and careless. 
According to Gina Mahony, coordinator of the stud1~nt-basnd SafeWalk escort sel'vice, campus assaults are most prevalent in the spring months. In light of both this fact and the two recent campus attacks on Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women, studm1ts are encouraged to exercise both caution and common sense when walking around campus, particularly after dark. Students can promote personal 
safety  by  being  aware  of  their  surroundings  and  
walking in pairs at night.  
It would also  serve  students' best interests  to  take  

advantage of' campus Security and the SafeWalk service. SafeWalk employs over 50 student escorts who accompany students around Notre Dame between the hours of 7:30 p.m. and 1:30 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and 7:30 p.m. and 2 a.m. Friday and Saturday. On1~ member of each two-person SafeWalk team carries a radio, which enables them to contact both their dispatcher and Security with ease. 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Security also operate on a 24-hour basis. Each of these groups is eager to accommodate students by promoting safety on campus and deterring campus crime. 
Saf'eWalk and Security arc particularly useful when students are walkin~ back to the University from off­campus, Saint Marys or the parking lots at night. If stud1mts call either organization and say they will be arriving on campus at a specific time and would like to rnqunst an nseort, this service is readily available. 
Students walking from Notre Dame to Saint Mary's can also be escorted down Saint Mary's Road, where members of the Saint Mary's Security Department will meet them on campus. Escorts will stay with the students until Security arrives. 
At night, students can also drive through eithe~ the Main or East Gate, now open 24 hours a day, and ask Security employees or SafeWalk workers to follow them to thn parking lot and then accompany them to their destination on campus. 
Both Security and SafeWalk were established to protect members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. Their services are useless, however, if not utilized by the students they arc designed to serve. 

DOONESBURY 
NO, NO, 7Ht I KNOW I IXJCANOI 
/A/HAT A SH()JWH4V8 AReJlET WJNlJfi?FUl­CAUWFIRST. 601N60~ '3URPR/5e, 1'37HI5A 7H£3FINAL­JOANttl 840 TIM&, FUN&RAL­
ANI7f? ARFWJ6t.­MWT5... 
I 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Chris DelliCarpini's letter "Celebrity status fails to justify immorality" (The Observer, April 18). I, too, was offended by the ad placed by the homo­sexual· community that listed many famous people as homo­sexual. Yet I was offended only because I felt that several of the names, like Emily Dickinson, Eleanor Roosevelt and Calvin Klein to name a few, were of people who have never openly stated they were homo­sexual. The ad almost seemed to be an excerpt from a sensa­tionalist tabloid. 
The ad, though, doesn't dis­turb me nearly as much as DelliCarpini's letter. While I was hoping to read an intelli­gent reply to the ad that per­haps questioned the resources, I instead found yet another re­pressed, uptight, homophobic Catholic who deems it necessary to lecture on morality. 
DelliCarpini seems afraid that the homosexual community is successfully "selling" their practice on an unassuming public. Although I have no direct contact with the people who placed the ad, I find it ex­tremely unbelievable that this is their motive. I think what they're saying is that if you're gay or feel homosexual tenden­cies, there is a support group of Notre Dame people who cares about you. 
I find it so sad that at a Catholic university which prides itself on its values of love, for­giveness and acceptance, there are still voices of hate and ig­norance. Scientists are still un­sure about the causes behind homosexuality. They do know, though, that gay people arc able to live normal. productive lives. Lives that continue to be disturbed by the shrill, self­righteous whining of the alleged morally upright. I feel sorry for homosexual people. I really do. I feel sorry for them not because of their "disease", but because they have to tolerate the diseased who continue to attack them. 
Michelle McNamara Walsh llall 
April 18, 1990 



Changes lead to more Bookstore fun 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Ken Tysiac's article concerning the fixing of Bookstore games by the Commissioner and his assistants (The Observer, April 17). Tysiac complains that it is unfair for commissioners not to have to worry about their first round games while every­one else is forced to sweat it out. I wonder if Tysiac would disagree with our policy of scheduling faculty versus faculty in the preliminaries. 
While I understand his con­cern for the moral integrity of the tournament, I think a few things should be cleared up. First, the commissioners are allowed to play the team of their choice in their first game, a preliminary game. Kevin McGee, this year's new commis­sioner, did not know this and unknowingly scheduled the game in question in the first round. A mistake, maybe; a crime, no. As commissioner, McGee is forced to do sign-ups, go through the name screening process, organize the schedule, 
make sure the courts are in good shape, run the captain's meeting, trouble shoot, make sure no one plays for two teams, answer phone calls at all hours and, most impor­tantly, be on the courts all day, every day, South Bend weather and all, to ensure everything is going fine. I see no problem in giving the commissioner the right to choose his first round opponent; it's his only payment. His team even pays $5 to enter. In addition, this helps increase the number of teams in the tournament because girls are more likely to play if they can play friends of theirs. 
Now, because there are peo­ple who still don't think it is fair, McGee and I have decided to implement a new procedure for next year. Any team who would like to be matched against another team in the preliminary round may do so provided they sign up at the same time and let the commis­sion know of their intention at the time of sign-ups. We hop!~ this will make the tournament even more enjoyable for those who have someone they would like to play against. After all, this tournament is for the en­joyment of the student body. 
Although I am disappointed in Tysiac for bringing about his allegations in the manner he did, I am glad because it opens up a whole new opportunity for more people to get involved in Bookstore Basketball. 
Mike Manning Bookstore Basketball Commissioner Emeritus 
April 22. 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
THCCAST 
OF"CHIZ/<5''! 

'We can't avoid thinking. The
THN?&'V& 
/T~A'3MY 

Be&N 
thoughtless are always going to
PYING 

'XVt:RAL.
IU15H! 

be the prisoners of other people's thoughts.' 
} 
I 

Allan Bloom 


Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, April 24, 1990 
Deficit proposals need some fresh ideas 
By Matt Janchar 
The idea suddenly hit me in Econ 123 yesterday, as I sat pondering the hopelessness of President Bush's federal budget proposals. Immediately after class, I raced back to my room and borrowed by roommate's CTI calling card. My hands trembled as I dialed the number for directory assistance. "What city please?" the operator snapped. "London," I replied. I was beside myself with antici­pation. I had just devised a plan to solve our nation's deficit problem for good. 
"Could you please put me through to a Mr. Ali Daghir at the protectory house of correc­tion?" I continued. "One mo­ment please," the operator said. Presently, the line began to ring. 
"May we ask who's calling?" a constable guard asked with a heavy British accent. I was caught off-guard for a moment, but quickly regained my composure. "Code name Bonzo," was all I said. 
By Derek Nephew 
I am an American Indian. I am one-half Lummi Indian and one-half white, although I do not know of what descent. You see, I am adopted and barely know anything about my real parents. This is not too impor­
. tant because I do have adoptive parents who care about me. My father is a full-blooded Seneca Indian and my mother is of various European descent. I was born in Seattle and grew up in Snohomish, Washington. 
Most American Indians grow up in an environment not typi­cal to that of most college stu­dents. This can prove to be a problem when entering college, especially at a university as homogeneous as Notre Dame. I am not writing this to complain about the school, only to try and enlighten anyone who will take the time to read this. I would also like to clear up my own views and opinions to those who have mislabelled me. I believe that I have often been misunderstood by many people as to what I am or believe. 
I was raised in a rural part of Washington, in Clearview. It was a small area of Snohomish and really had its own reputa­tion. Snohomish was and is a predominantly white part of the country. Clearview itself was reputed to be a difficult place to live. The local tavern was the root cause of many problems. It attracted a certain type of person to be around the area, often a person who was an a].: coholic, unemployed and had "an attitude problem." The ma­jority of people would label them as "trash." 
The families that lived near me were quite poor, while my family was working class. My father always managed to pro­vide for us. These neighbors had a dramatic influence upon me in shaping my values and attitudes. My family was very moral and disciplined. Of our two closest neighbors, one family upheld the same values and beliefs while the other was just the opposite. The latter "family" consisted of six adults some way or another. Most of the adults were alcoholic and unemployed. The adults were usually in conflict with their neighbors and caused severe problems. The kids in the neighborhood, on the other hand, were all friends. 
l grew up with this family's children and was exposed to various negative things. I expe­rienced their hurts and failures as they did. I deeply cared for some of those kids and almost saw them as brothers. They witnessed many problems. I was discouraged to see only two out of eight graduate from high school. Their parents did not care about their welfare and, in school, everyone saw them in a demeaning manner. I, too, experienced these hostile feelings since I spent a great tical of time with them. I guess this is why I am seen as cynical, although I believe I am a real­ist. I saw everyone but myself not go on to college: in the Clearview area, I know over 20 friends who did not go on to college. I was the exception; the only one besides my sister. Liv­ing in this environment is a whole different mind-set. The attitudes are different than those I have encountered at Notre Dame. You had to have an attitude to fit in where I lived or you would get shunned by all. This is why I have had problems with Notre Dame. 
Being Indian has shaped my life radically. I have seen and experienced prejudice towards Indians. Yes, it does happen. My father experiences bigotry at his job daily. All you have to do is look at any fishing or land rights treaty controversy in a state and you can find people who despise Indians. Consider the spearfishing controversy in Wisconsin, for example. 
I never lived on a reservation, but I have been to several of them. Alcoholism and unem­ployment are rampant. In order for someone to overcome this, it takes an almost superhuman resolve. Most people do not re­alize how much their environ­ment determines their chances at "succeeding" in life. If you are born into a poor family, the going to have to sacrifice my transistor radio. One of my roommates is an electrical engineering major -I'm sure he could tell me what a capaci­tor looks like. 
Before hanging up, Mr. Daghir thanked me for giving him a chance to break into the elite market of illegal weapons exchange. 
"Just tell your boys to have the money in the mailbox to­morrow. Be sure to mark the envelope 'For budget deficit re­duction purposes only.' And if Congress gets wind of this, deny everything. They're not too hard to fool. Take it from me--did you see the way I played dumb for that Senate in­vestigation committee? Best acting I've done since my film career ended." 
"That was an act?" Daghir asked incredulously. "Are you calling the Ex­President a liar?" I shouted. "No, just senile," he said. 


possibility of you rising above ernment and people will not foreign environment--a culture that level is not good. If you are shoulder the responsibility that shock. born on a reservation, your is due to my people. I am not trying to condemn chances of breaking the cycle of anyone or even say my views poverty are even worse. As for Notre Dame: this are "right." 1 only want people 
school is not conducive to to realize this view exists. Why? 
American Indians are perhaps American Indians. We have a Something needs to be changed the most ignored people in this small population and few or no to make everyone feel welcome country. Poverty, suicide and avenues to turn to for support. and comfortable at Notre alcoholism are phenomenal in We also have the highest Dame. 1 am not asking for spe­their rates among my people. dropout rate. I maintain Notre cial considerations for minori­Indian culture, tradition, spiri­Dame is not responsive to our ties, only an atmosphere that is tuality and stereotypes may all needs because it is homoge­more open and accepting to all seem "neat" to the general neous. Indians at this school people regardless of race or public, but the admiration for who have the most problems sex. Natives ends when American tend to be those who have never society has to pay back all of been exposed to a white, upper­Derek Nephew is a junior fi­its wrongdoings. The U.S. gov-class, Catholic society. It is a nance/history major. 
LETTERS 
LULAC debuts on the ND campus 
Dear Editor: Dame LULAC Chapter, also will be performed as well as 
It gives us great pleasure to hope to promote civic, political any acts relating in theme to announce the establishment of and cultural events among Latin America. a new student organization, the Latin Americans at Notre Dame With the semester nearly over League of United Latin and in the community. In addi­we are hard-pressed for time, American Citizens (LULAC). tion, we hope to bring scholar­and though we would like to be 
ship money to deserving mem­primarily a service organiza­
LULAC is an organization bers already attending Notre tion, we would also like to established in 1929 in Corpus Dame and/or prospective stu­promote our culture. That is Christi, Texas, which has dents from the local commu­exactly what we are doing with grown to be the largest, most nity. We will be sponsoring the Latin theme talent show. powerful national Latin such events accordingly. Look for better things and American organization in the However, though the name im­more to come from the Notre United States. LULAC has tra­plies that Latin American Dame Chapter of the League of ditionally been dedicated to stature is a prerequisite for United Latin American Citizens serving the community, membership, our organization this year and next year. promoting Latin American is open to all who wish to pro­culture, raising national mote the LULAC cause. 
Manuel Espino, President political awareness and Our main event for the re­John Rodarte, Vice President soliciting and dispersing mainder of this semester will be Veronica Gruzman, Secretary scholarship funds to worthy, a Latin theme talent show on Beatriz Cruz. Treasurer able students. April 28, whereby the songs Notre Dame LULAC ChapterWe. the members of the Notre and dances of Latin America April 16, 1990 



Accent
Tuesday, April 24, 1990 page 9 
25 years of 'Days of Our Lives' 
"Like sands through the hourglass... " Since its first use 
Joe Bucolo on Nov. H, I1)(,5, this statement has beconw the trademark for 
To be

NBC's most popular soap opera. h>r tlw past 25 years. the continued ... program has bnconw an Pnjoyabll' part of tlw "Days of that viewers feels as though Our l.ivns." they themselves are members 
l'rodu1·ers and network exec­of the llorton dan. utiws had no idea tlwir nnw Couples are often tlw center show represented by an hour­of plotlinns on "Days of Our glass would lwconH~ as popular Livns." Whnther they are falling as it has-11'1 almw entPrtain in love. chasing crooks, or audiPrH·es for twPnty-fiw years. fighting with one anotlwr, the Fortunatl'ly, howewr. "Days" couples are a source of great has not only I'IHhrr·l'd, but intnrnst. playl'd an integral role in tlw In addition to Alien and Tom. shaping of soap operas as tlwy "Days" has had its share of arl' known today. nwmorable duos. .Julie (Susan 
"Days of Our l.iws" dPals Seaforth llayes) and Doug with nwmlwrs and friPnds of (William llayes) wen~ the tlw I lorton family. Tom hottest "Days" eoupln in tlw ( Marl>onald Can•yl and Alicl' seventies. Maggie (Suzanne llorton (Jo'r·iuH·ns HPidl are tlw Hognrs) and Mickey also had hPads OJ' tJH' JJortOII hOUSI'hoJd their sham of ups and downs. . and haw hl'l'll principl1• Curnmtly, Kimberly (Patsy .. charal'!Prs on tlw show sinrP its Pease) and Shane (Char·les inrPption. Mirkny (John Clarki\ Shaugnessyl, Kayla (Mary Beth a naliw South BPrHIPr). tlwir Evans) and Patch (Stewm Ni­son, is thl' only otlwr nwmbPr dwls), and Adrimme (Judi 
•' ...

of thP original rast who Evans) and Justin (Wally Kurth) rPmains on tlw program today. are tlw couples at the center of 
Without a doubt. onl' of thn tlw storms brewing in Salem. rPasons for tlw show's mass All three couples have been the show in the early eighties, some time now; however, .Jack killed, not Marlena. "Days" fans appPal is its sPnse of family. through breakups, recon­I lope and Bo filled Salem with is about to make his move for are also responsible for WhiiP storylirws pn~snnt a great ciliations, and, of course, a some of its most memorable .Jennifer at her wedding to bringing Emilio back to the dPal of suspense and intrigue, grnat deal of grief. plotlines. In fact, Hope and Bo's Emilio (Billy Hufsey). program as well as returning tlwy rwwr lose sight of tlw While all these couples are storylines were responsible for Villains are as mueh a part of some of the show's current fo­show's dmlication to family. critical to the success of "Days," bringing "Days" to New "Days" as its eouples. Again, cus to older characters such as Vii'WPrs share in th1~ happy and one in particular stands out as Orleans. Miami, Stockholm, and the show has presented a Julie and Maggie. sad momPnts PxperiPnced by the couple that made "Days" London, where they were plethora of interesting charac­The future of "Days" is a tlw llortons. In fact. writNs of what it is today: Hope (Kristian married in 1986. ters responsible for causing bright one. With May sweeps as "Days" haw so mastered the Alfonso) and Bo Brady (Peter In April of 1987, !lope and Bo trouble. Stefano DiMera (Joe well as the show's 25th an­art of character development Heckell). Since their arrival on sailed off with their son, Sean Mascola) is probably the view­niversary ahead, viewers are 
Douglas, for an around-the­ers' favorite. Stefano has had ensured the most exciting of world cruise. The show has not more lives than a cat. Eaeh storylines. In addition to llopn been the same since their de­time viewers think he's dead, and Bo's return, viewers should parture; however, both Hope he manages to return only to watch for Adrienne and Justin's and Bo are back! Bo made his cause more trouble. Who relationship to heat up. Julie grand re-entrance into Salem knows? Someone's following and Vietor will go head to head last week, and I lope will return Bo and Hope around Australia in a vicious power struggle, and this week. Of course, Hope and and it just may be Stefano. the mystery surrounding Bo will be at the center of the No other soap opera has as Sarah's father will continue. show's main storylines as Victor loyal a following as "Days of Also, the search for Stephanie (.John Aniston), Bo's father, Our Lives." It is the most often will come to an end and Kim­struggles to win Bo over and videotaped of all the daytime berly will continue to be tor­Julie and Hope, half sisters, serials. In the late seventies, mented by Cal. fight to save Bo from Victor's during "Days" famous Salem With the rnturn of old rhar­grasp. Strangler plotline, Marlena aeters and interesting new 
Another couple is emerging (Deidre Hall). Boman's first plotlines on the horizon. "Days as one of "Days"' best: Jennifer wife, was strangled to death. of Our Lives" is preparing for (Melissa Brennan) and .Jack Viewers were so upset by tlw anotlwr twnnty-livn years of en­(Matthew Ashford). Jennifer death of Marlena that they tertaining Ppisodes. Sun~ly and Jack have been running picketed the NBC olliees in there will be more murder, around Salem refusing to admit Burbank. As luck would havn it, mystery, and maylwm. "So are their love for one another for Samantha, Marlena's twin, was the days of our livns." 
Dorm fun: alien life forms and door-switching 
Well. last week's column has n~spond hy raising my nyc­them all out, "Halph" (this is
But it's not just practical jokes
rPrtainly gotten a rangP of re­brows in a surprised fashion not his n~al name, which is l'hill
which distinguish my section. 
actions. On the otw hand. one and rnplying: "My name's not lan Mitchell kept orw packagf', opmwd it a
There's also some sort of ali!Hl 
of my so-raliPd friends dP­MikP." little to let air in. and tlwn put
Lion Taming life form. Last year one of my
srrilwd it as "prPtty lanw," So when a guy in my section it in tlw ceiling. (Our dorm has
roommates, Halph, got a cam 
while, on thP otlwr hand. an­suggested that I write about my one of those Styrofoam ceilings 
package from home which had 
otlwr rl'l(•rTPd to it in slightly dorm again, I took a strong off its hinges. This is the kind of -the sanw kind of ceiling that,
some little snacks ealledwacky stunt I love from these
stronger language as "a journalistic stance of impartial­in elementary school. I spent
"Tastee Cakes" in it. Well. the 
hl'inous rrinw perpPtrated ity, examined my conscience, guys. They wern going to switch hours flipping pencils into, try­
Tastee Cakes would have been my door with another door
against tlw reading puhlir noticed my deadline and said: ing to gPt one to stick up tlwn~.)
all right if their expiration date 
whirh must not go unpun­"What a great idea!" So here down the hall. switch the door Anyway. Phil thoughtfully put
hadn't been sometime duringnumbers back, and wateh as I
islwd." So all right. I'm sorry goes: the Tastee Cakns up nnar a
the Eisenhower presidency. 
-I'll try to bP funniPr this Everyone has enjoyed the fun (and the other guy) tried to get light, so they would get plenty
Tlwse things were way beyond
into our rooms. The keys would of heat. This was a year ago,WI'Ck. of stealing a sectionmate's stale. The chocolate-y coatinghave fit. but the doors wouldn't
Orw problem with writing for clothes while they're in the and I'm beginning to wonder
(legal note: the word 
Tlw OhsPrv1~r -besides being shower, and many have typed a have opened! Best of all, if we what happened. It's not that I'm
"chocolate-y" means that the 
eonstantly mobbed by adoring quiek sentence or two into a woke the resident assistant and paranoid or anything, but
food is not actually chocolate,
had him let us in, his key would sometimes when I hear a(and scantily-dad) fmnale fans roommate's paper while they're but is similar to it in as much as 
(oh. all right. this has rwver ac­away from the computer. Some have worked just fine! Boy, strange noise in the ceiling, I'm
it is sorta brownish) waswouldn't we have looked like
tually happmwd to mn. hut I'm have even graduated up to wondering if the Tastee Cakes
covered with this fuzzy greenalways lwpefull-is that whnn­stunts like stealing mattresses, chumps! lla! mold-like substance. haven't evolved into sonwthing 
Sinee I interrupted them in
lwer I ask someone what I but I think that my section has big, mean and hungry by now.
We threw out most of the
mid-theft, they tried to eome up I was going to finish by tellingshould writ!' about. I usually a special gift for this kind of snack packs right away. Well,with another plan. My room­­
gPL the sanw answer. Tlw thing. you about the time last
all right, first we let AI bite into 
mate, who was visiting a friend semester a guy put a live snakewording may vary slightly. but When I got baek to my room one without mentioning theat a eollege out of state, almost
it's usually something like: the other night, I found two of down his pants for twenty
fuzz. (After regaining con­"Well Mike, why don't you write my seetionmates, with screw­had everything he owned boxed sciousness, he reported that it bucks, but I guess I'll leavn that 
up and shipped there C.O.D!
about me?" To which I always drivers in hand, taking my door had tasted "sorta like rum.") story to your imagination. No 
What zany funsters, eh? need thank me.
But rather than throwing 
Bo (Peter Reckell) and Hope (Kristian Alfonso) return to "Days of Our Lives." Since the early eighties, Bo and Hope have had some of the soap opera's most memorable plotlines. 


Three individual victories in track team's 4th-place finish 
By SHANNON FAY Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's track team competed at the Indiana Intercollegiate outdoor meet in Indianapolis this weekend, fin­ishing fourth with 82 points. 
The Irish fell short of Ball State and Big 10 competitors Indiana and Purdue. Eight Irish athletes placed in their events, including three individual champions. 
The Irish dominated the javelin throw, capturing first 
ana second place. :::.opnomore Matt DeAngelis won the event with a toss of 202-2. He was followed by his teammate, sophomore Jon Stewart, who had a 190-11 effort. 
John Cole continued his im­pressive season with a victory in the high jump. The junior from Illinois cleared 6-11.5, his best performance of the out­door season. 
Perhaps the strangest in­

stance of the day occurred in the 10,000-meter run. Officials miscounted the number of laps and added an extra length to the race. However, junior Patrick Kearns was not fazed by the mistake and captured first place in the event with a 
30:57.4 time. "I ran a pretty good race. I hadn't run well all year and now I'm getting back on track." 
Senior co-captain Mike O'Connor finished second in the 1500-meter race with a time of 3:45.19. Freshman John Coyle, who finished second in the 5000 meters the previous weekend, took second once again, this time in the 3000-meter steeplechase. His time was 
9:12.95. In the 800 meters, sophomore Brian Peppard's 
1:51.88 finish gave him third place in an extremely close race. Peppard was only two­tenths of a second behind the winner. Senior co-captain Yan Searcy's 48.12 time was enough for a fourth-place win in the 400-meter dash. 
The meet allowed several in­dividuals to qualify for the IC4A Outdoor Championships. Kearns, DeAngelis, and O'Connor will join Cole, Coyle, Searcy and sophomore Hyan Mihalko at the competition in May. 
The Irish will split into two teams next weekend as they travel to Iowa for the Drake Relays and to Michigan for the Hillsdale Relays. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
..  \ NOTICES TYPING term papers/reports/letter/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277­5134 Cathy.  Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 LOST/FOUND Lost: silver framed glasses in black case, at Cartier field or vicinity. Reward. Call Mike at x2082.  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. $5,000+/monthl Over 8,000 openings. Free transportation I Room & Board! No experience necessary. MALE or FEMALE. Send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box 84008, Seattle, WA 98124­Satisfaction Guaranteed.  FOR SALE DO YOU NEED A FLIGHT TO PROV. R.I.?? monday, may 22, best offer! call Kris x2735 APPLE liE COMPUTER W/ EXTENDED MEMORY, MONITOR, FAN, DISK DRIVE,  PHISH IS COMING!! WED. APRIL 25 START YOUR NEW CAREER WITH A NEW CAR! We have special financing for employed graduates. Call: Gary Erb At: Gates Toyota 237-4999  ADOPTION. We are a childless, educated, secure, happily married, white Christian couple. Give your baby a fantastic future. Let us adopt her/him. Call us collect 201­974-8227. SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US!!! Mail Boxes Etc. We're ON CAMPUS 5/5 to 5/12,  
PROGRAMS,  GAMES, &  In La Fortune (Dooley Room)!  
LOST: GOLD SEIKO WATCH  ATIENTION: Excellent Income for Home Assembly Work. Info. Call  PRINTER FOR SALE. ALL FOR ONLY $700  SUMMER OR FIT JOB: ND family  UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. 277-6245  
WITH BLACK STRAP  504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868.  CALL AMY 239-7308.  in Chicago area looking for Nanny  
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN B1  for 18mo boy. Live in or out. Top  
PARKING LOT & LAFORTUNE.  T-SHIRT: "Sex Kills ... Live  Is It True .... Jeeps for $44  pay. Call (708) 433-1628.  FACUL TV, DEPT. HEADS &  
LOST ON WEDNESDAY, 4/18.  Forever." $$$$$. Please Call:  through the Government? Call  BOSSES:  
CALL FATMATA 239-5243 BEFORE 5 PM OR 288-0440 AFTER6 PM.  reann;;~-9~~Nr  for facts! 1-708-742-1142 Ext. 7316.  EQUAL RITES FOR WOMEN See the future of the Catholic Church: the ordination of Women.  WEDNESDAY IS SECRETARY'S DAY.  
One Litre Soft 'Drink_ anireceive $1.00 off ca[[ 277-3324 j'ree 'Defivery  LOST: "Hawaii" Key Chain. Please Call2347. LOST AT SENIOR FORMAL: faux pearl bracelet, 3 strands thick ... it belonged to my Grandmother and has GREAT sentimental value. PLEASE CALL LAURA #2533 LOST: Pair of Ray-Ban Sunglasses, somewhere in God Quad Saturday evening. REWARD Call Lizi X-2519. LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. REWARD. SEAN 2073  Furn. 2 & 4 bedrm. houses. Safe. Washer/dryer. Sand V-ball court. Bruce: 288-5653/234­3831. NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable turn. apts: 755 South Bend Ave., efficiency-$225; 1 bdrm-$265 dep., references. 616-483-9572. 3 BEDROOM-GARAGE 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS $525 MONTH, $400 DEPOSIT 232-3616. ROOMMATE NEEDED. Furnished  Off-Campus Furnit., Dorm Refridg. & Carpet 4 a Single 271-5651 Academic cap and gown with doctoral hood. $50.00.239-7405 · or 232-6415 Enduro Motorcycle: '87 Suzuki SP125cc. Mint Condition. Call r@27~KETS I NEED GRAD TKTS $$DAVE P. 3270 Hey! B I L L Y J 0 E Lfans:  THE ORDINATION OF WOMEN: The View of Two Bishops Tuesday Night 7:30 Library Aud. Come and Learn as Two Bishops share their view of the Future. WEDNESDAY NIGHT 7:30 LIBRARY AUD. Panel Discussion on the Ordination of Women See the Future of the Catholic Church EQUAL RITES FOR WOMEN:  We Have Neat Mugs, Delicious Coffees, Teas, Cocoas and other great gilts for your SPECIAL SECRETARY. Phone orders·& Deliveries available. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LAFORTUNE LOWER LEVEL 2J9-6714 Quote of the day: You don't have to worry about that, only the good die young!!  
coupon ezyires: 4-29-90 L--------------.1 UPS ON CAMPUS THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 239-6174 -LAFORTUNE WE TAPE! WE LABELl WE SHIP! $100 FREE INSURANCE  LOST: Black and gold Seiko dress watch on the second floor of the library. Please call Pat x2479 or give to library security at the front desk. SENIOR FORMAL: Are those pictures you developed not yours? Maybe you or your date picked up the wrong camera by accident on SAT night. Please call #t765. THANKS  room in nice, quiet house near campus. Considerate, mature, non-smoker a must. Available mid­May. Summer $175/mo. Avail for Fall/Spring $250/mo. Call 232­9952. Thanks. SUBLETIING our Turtle Creek townhouse for Summer '90. Call Mike, x2010. SUBLETIING TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER, FURNISHED. TOM 273-0302  Would you like two tickets to his APRIL 24 CONCERT IN THE ROSEMONT HORIZON? If so, call Phil at #1 051 or Molly at #2669 or #2648 for more ticket information BEST OFFER/ACT FAST Help! My little old Italian Grandma is coming for graduation! I need an extra ticket or I'll be out of the will! I will pay much bucks. Call X4238 and leave a message.  Sign Petitions Today supporting the Ordination of Women. Petitions on Campus WATCH FOR DETAILS FOR PMS AND DICK HOLLIDAY AND THE BAMBOO GANG!! LET US HELP YOU! SHIPPING SERVICES DAILY $100 FREE INSURANCE THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE  PETE'S BREWING COMPANY LEADING CALIFORNIA BASED SPECIAL TV BREWER NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR MIDWEST REGION MANAGER. SALARY 22-25K. BONUS, CAR, BENEFITS, ETC. RESPONSIBLE FOR MIDWEST SALES AND MARKETING PROGRAMS. BEVERAGE/SALES EXPERIENCE PREFERRED. CALL MARK BOZZINI (415) 328-7383.  
Discounts Available  LOST: A BLACK & GREEN CAMOUFLAGE JACKET.  New 2 Bdrm., 2 Bath Condo. Available for 1990-1991.  GUS IS RICH!!! I need GRAD tickets and will pay.  WE TAPEI WE LABEL! WE SHIP!  NATE WE THINK YOU'RE GREAT!!  
*MAKE EVERY DAY* *EARTH DAY* SUMMER CAMPAIGNS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT EARN $2500-$3500 Help pass the Clean Air Act, tighten pesticide controls & promote tomprehensive recycling Available In 18 states & D.C.  REWARD. 234-9648. I'm lost!!! Please help me, my name is Sundance. I'm a white 6" Teddy Bear with black eyes and grey suede feet bottoms. Lost 4-8­90 in red east parking lot at ND. My family misses me very much. My safe return would be greatly appreciated. Reward!! Call collect, Tom or Gloria at 317-247-1096 LOST: Brown leather jacket. 0/C at 524 Cresent Street. Friday 4/20. Reward if found. Mike x4280.  Walk to campus. Call Michelle at x4981. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153. NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD SAFE AREA 1 MILE NORTH OF ND2773097 2 HOUSES, REDUCED RENT. WASHERS & DRYERS, BURGLAR ALARMS, FULLY FURNISHED, WILL RENT TO GROUP OR INDIVIDUALS. CONTACT CHUCK GLORE 232-1776.  Call me at 277-4162. Attention please. I need two grad tix bad honest, I am willing to pay big bucks for them. :!~!!~~-~~.?reg at 3114 NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ CALL #2059-JOHN WANTED-GRADUATION TICKETS. REWARD. CALL 800­ Discounts available SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER & PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR HOUSING/ROOMMATE "INFORMATION/EXCHANGE" Nick, Happy Birthday! I hope that you like the weird gift that I bought for you--I don't. This weekend will be great--1 promise! Love, Christina  PRO-LIFERS: ANYONE INTERESTED IN GOING TO RIGHT TO LIFE RALLY THIS SAT. APRIL 281N D.C CONTACT MARIA 4500. SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER & PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR HOUSING/ROOMMATE "INFORMATION EXCHANGE" To my inspirations: Hoa Tran & Kevin McKay  
Call Kate toll-free: 1-800-75-EARTH WORDPROCESSING 272-1837 $$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! PANDORA'S BOOKS Corner of ND ave and Howard 233-2342 I St. Edward's Hall Forum Coach Lou Holtz Speaks On: "Here's How I See the Future of Football at Notre Dame." Tuesday, April24 7:00pm  LOST: Brown leather jacket. 0/C at 524 Cresent Street. Friday 4/20. Reward if found. Mike x4280. LOST-VIVITAR CAMERA ON THURS., 4/19 AT BRIDGET'S OR MCCORMICKS-if found please call Shannon @ 284-5229 LOST-RAY BAN SUNGLASSES­-Black wire-rims, left on a PA speaker at Earthday during the mind-shattering mega-jam of Superfreak. Call Mike x1464. Lost: Black TDK 3 1 /2" disk. Whoever found a diskette matching above discription in the Mac Lab in the Math-Camp Bldg. last Wed. night or Thurs. morning please call. I have 20 hrs. of work on it for a term project due on thursday !II Call Paul@ x-1506 WANTED  Sublet a townhouse for summer! 2 bedrm, 1 1/2 bath, kitchen, living; partially furnished. Call Amy or Sharon, SOONI X1302 3-4 bedroom house with 2 full baths, washer/dryer & garage. Located safely across the street from campus. Ph. 234-7650 FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NO. CAMPUS. 272-0615. AVAILABLE JUNE OR AUGUST, 4 BEDROOM HOUSE, COMPLETELY FURNISHED. SECURITY SYSTEM. CALL 234­9364. TURTLE CREEK SUBLET TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR THE SUMMER CALL KEVIN,MIKE,OR JEFF X1644  888-5054 BETWEEN 8-5. ASK FOR SHIRLEY K. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 6Jf.-342-0729. $$$ I NEED GRAD TIX $$$ Call BRAD @ 271-0758 $$$ If you are selling GRAD TIX, call me first. MONEY NO OBJECT!!! Harry x2263 I need graduation tickets for huge family. Please call Jeanne at 2600. NEED 2 GRAD. TICKETS CALL CHRIS 289-971 0 $$$ HELP-NEED 4-5 GRAD. TIX Ill WILL PAY$$ CALL  Louii-Give the frog back CONGRATULATIONS SMOOTH, SWIFT AND SWEATY !II GOOD LUCK IN THE NEXT GAME--WISH I COULD SEE IT. WAYNE Garibaldi BALDI Balz Happy 19th birthday!! This whole week will rock. JUBA P.S. Only a month and aha~ togoll hiag Do you like to read ? Bring your books to CLUB 23 ! 'MO.  GOOD LUCK!!!!!!! GOOD LUCK!!I!!II We're all proud of you. LoveYa, Beetle CWH: True or True: Saabs are for snobs? XO. CLUB TUESDAY tonight 9-11 in Haggar Parlor-free refreshments­presenting STEPHEN BAIRD SENIOR FORMAL PICTURES Candids and Formals can be picked up Wednesday April 25th from 12:00-5:00 in the Dooley Room Lafortune. Call SAFEWALK for an escort anywhere on campus. 7:30pm-1:30am Sun-Th 7:30pm-2:00am Fri-Sat  
...  St. Edward's Hall Forum EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE any weekend-ext 1938  SUMMER SUBLET Furnished Turtle Creek Apt Upstairs, 2bdrm 277-9470 Tom or Dave  
 SENIORS Can you afford to lose $1 ,000? Take advantage of your student discount on an IBM PS/2 BEFORE  Summer Vacation! Anyone in need of a roommate  
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! MAIL BOXES ETC. UPS, Boxes, Shipping Supplies. On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. 277-6245  ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262.  SINGLE STUDIO APT. AT TURTLE CREEK FOR SUMMER. UTILITIES INCLUDED. 284-5475 LEAVE MESSAGE.  GOING HOME !?!?!? For great rental van rates call Tim at x1143 ASAP.  you graduate and spring into savings. JUST DO IT! Call an IBM student rep today! 237-3680, -3790, -3794  in Chicago for the summer call Bridget x 2770 I have one simple question, what's with all the goatee's on campus?  



Tuesday, April 24, 1990 page 11
Scoreboard 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  NATIONAL  LEAGUE  
Eaat  Division  w  l  Pet  GB  East  Division  w  l  Pet  GB  
Toronto  9  5  .643  Pittsburgh  8  6  .571  
Milwaukee  8  5  .545  11/2  Montreal  7  6  .538  1/2  
Balllmoro  7  6  .538  I 1/2  Philadelphia  7  6  .538  1/2  
Boston  6  6  .500  2  Chicago  6  7  .462  11/2  
Cleveland  5  6  .455  21/2  New York  6  7  .462  1 1/2  
Delroil  6  8  .429  3  St. Louis  6  8  .429  2  
New Vorl<  4  6  400  3  West Division  
w  l  Pet  GB  
Weot  Division  w  l  Pet  GB  Cincinnati  9  1  .900  
Oakland  9  3  .750  Los Angelos  8  6  .571  3  
Chicago  5  4  .556  2 1/2  San Diogo  6  6  .500  4  
Texas  7  6  .538  2 1/2  Houston  5  7  .417  5  
Calilorn1a  6  6  .500  3  San Francisco  5  7  .417  5  
Minnesota  6  8  .429  4  Atlanta  2  8  .200  7  
Kansas City  5  7  .417  4  z-denotes first game was a w in  
Seattle  4  9  .308  5 1/2  
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
Monday's  Games  

Baltimore 8, Kansas City 5 Toronto 12, Cleveland 9 DotroH 8, Minnesota 3 Only games scheduled 
Tueeday'e Gsmea Kansas City (Dotson 0-0) at Milwaukee (Bos•o 1-0), 7 p.m. Seattle (Young 0-2) at Now Vorl< (laPoint 0-1), 7:30p.m. California (langston 1-0) at Boston (Clemons 3-0). 7:35 p.m. Oakland (Stewart 3-0) at Baltimore (Johnson 2-0), 7:35p.m. Cleveland (Swindell1-1) at Toronto (Key 1-0), 7:35p.m. Detroit (Ritz 0-3) at Minnesota (Guthrie 0-0). 8:05p.m. Chicago (King 0-0) at Texas (Moyer 0-2), 8:35 p.m. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Sunday's Games New Vorl< 5, Montreal 0 Allanta 3, Cincinnati I Philadelphia 5, St LOUIS 3 Pittsburgh 3, Chicago 2 Los Angeles 2, Houston 0 San Franc1sco 3, San D•ogo 1 
Monday's Games 
Late Game Not Included St. Lou1s 7, Pittsburgh 4 San Franc1sco at San D1ego, (n) Only games scheduled 
Tuesday's Games Allanta (Smith 1-1) at Now Vorl< (Gooden 1-2), 7:35p.m. Cincinnati (Rito 0-0) at Philadelphia (Howell1-1), 7:35p.m. Montreal (Gross 0-1) at Houston (Scott 0-1), 8:35p.m. Chicago (Maddux 2-0) at San Diogo (Rasmussen 0-0), 10:05 p.m. St. Louis (Magrano 0-2) at los Angeles (Morgan 2-0), 10:35 p.m. Pittsburgh (Drabek 2-1) at San Francisco (Garrelts 0-0), 10:35 p.m. 
RESULTS 
Softball Men's Track Notre Dame 5, St. Franc1s t Finished 4th out of 10 teams at the Indiana Notre Dame 4. St. Francis 3 lntercolloglates 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Results for Monday's Games Stepan 1 a Joe and Who Are Your Fnends over 5 Guys 
Who Can Stop 3rd & 43 by 13 Good, The Bad & The Laundry over Secretary's 
Dream by 8 We Ain't Soft over Salt, Salt, Salt Shaken by 3 Soul Sonic Force over Return of Skip Holtz. War 
Memonal by 4 
Stepan 2 We've Got Crunch and You Don't over 5 Sally 
Guys by 8 Digger's NIT Express over Sons of Chach1 by 5 The Dogs over Team •579 by 8 Mahc1ous Prostitution over De La Soul by 11 
Stepan 3 Clock Work Orange over We've Always Been 
Buster Douglas Fans by 4 Cab's Crew over Hokey Jokeys by 6 Enwonmental Rapists over Stuff Fest by 2 Nubian Pharoahs over l-train by 7 
Stepan 4 Painfully Huge over Joe and His Fnends by 5 The Donks over Space Balls The Bookstore 
Team by 11 Peaches over Club 22 by 13 CJ's Pub over O'Malleys by 4 
Stepan 5 Parad1se Jam over Steve Eats the Toast by 14 Silent Assassins over Sarin Hall Foodsales by 4 Expresso Pizza over Chunky K's Boyz by 4 Raw Talent over Big AI & Blbbles by 9 Stepan 6 3rd & Short over Santa, Blilzen & 3 Guys . by 
4 

Snapperheads over Barnyard Animals by 7 Shoot Or Get Off over Spideragnum P.l. by 6 Reckless Abandon over Dry Heaves & Drool by 
2 

Bookstore9 Beer. Broads & Bookstore over Jamere Jackson, Phil Sheridan & 3 Other Guys That Won't Score This Year by 5 Multiple Scoregasms over 5 Guys Who Have Never Been in Cliff's Kitchen by 10 Prof. Longhaor & The . over Taam #260 by 3 Rubber Cement II over J.R. Gash & Slain Pieces by 8 
Bookstore 10 
Remember It's Denver over Almoni-jet Engine Repair by 5 No "I" in Team over 4 Go-Go-Go-Gophers & The Texas Toad by 11 Club Meerschaum over 5 Scrubs by 8 All The President's Men over Unmarried With 
Children by 7 Tequila While llghtnong over Noxious Gases by 13 
Games for Tuesday, Aprll24 Stepan 1 
4:00 -Adworks vs. Slow Punch Mem. Team 
4:45 -Fighting Kernals vs. Gods of Hellfire 5:30-We Ain't Soft vs. Good, The Bad & The Laundry 
6:15 -Soul Sonic Force vs. Painfully Huge 

SPORTS CALENDAR NHL PLAYOFFS 
Adams Division 

Tuesday, April 24 At Montreal Baseball vs. CHICAGO STATE (2). Coveleski 
Boston 2 3 1-6 Stadium, 5 p.m. 
Montreal 1 1 1-3 irst Perio~1. Boston, Carter 2 (Wesley), 9:49 (sh)
Wednesday, April 25 2, Boston, Bourque 2 (Neely, Propp), 13:02. 3. 
Softball vs. GRACE COLLEGE (2), 3:30p.m. 
Montreal. Gilchrist2 (Waller), 15:09. Second Period-4, Montreal, Courtnall 4 
Thursday, April 26 (Schneider, Smith), 3:10. 5, Boston. Carter 3 No sports scheduled. 
(Bourque, Carpenter), 5:30. 6, Boston, Propp 3 (Janney, Neely), 6:58. 7, Boston, D. Sweeney 1 
Friday, April 27 (Burridge, Galley), 13:49 (pp).
Women's tennis vs. BUTLER, 3:30p.m. 
Third Period-8, Boston, Poulin 6 (D.Sweeney,
Track at Drake Relays Burridge), 7:18. 9, Montreal, Courtnall 5 (Lemieux.
Men's golf at Kepler Invitational, Columbus, Ohio 
Chelios), 14:23. Shots on goal-Boston 10-11-9--30. Montreal 5­
Saturday, April 28 
12-6-23. 

Baseball at Detroit (2), 12 p.m. Men's tennis vs. MARQUETTE, 12 p.m. and 
Patrick Division AI landover, Md.

DRAKE, 2p.m. lacrosse vs. OHIO STATE. 4 p.m. 
New Vorl< 1 0 0-1 
Washington 4 1 2-7Track at Drake Relays and at Ball State Invitational First Period-1, Washington, Druce 8 (Courtnall,Men's golf at Kepler Invitational Hunter). 6:04 (pp). 2, Washington. Courtnall 2 (Druce, Hunter), 8:20. 3, New York, Broten 1 Women's golf at Ladr Boilermaker Spring Classic, 
West lafayette. ln. (Turcotte), 9:29 (sh). 4, Washington, Druce 9 
(Hatcher, Johansson), 10:33 (pp). 5. Washington, Ridley 3 (Rouse), 11:29 (sh).
Sunday, April 29 
Baseball at Deloit (2), 12 p.m. Men's golf at Kepler Invitational 
Second Period-6, Washington, Johansson 1 
(Tucker), 4:14.

Women's golf at Lady Boilermaker Spring Classic 
Third Period-7, Washington, Courtnall 4 (Druce, Hunter), 11:58 (pp). 8, Washington, Leach 2 (Ridley, Miller), 17:05. Shots on goal-New Vorl< 10-6-3-19. Washington 
Softball vs. MARQUETTE (2), 1 p.m. 
16-19-1~9. 

Stepan 2 4:45 -Segue vs. Denver Woman Want to Hold 
4:00 -Senior Bar vs. Modac1ous Meatuses Our Nuggets 
4:45 -Apocalypse & The 4 Horsemen vs. 5:30-Raw Talent vs. Paradise Jam Pittsburgh Is Weak 6:15-Shoot Or Get Off vs. Snapperheads 
5:30 -Malicious Prostitution vs. The Dogs 6:15-Digger's NIT Express vs. We've Got Bookstore9 Crunch & You Don't 4:00-Ministers of Pain vs. Flipper & The 
Undertows Stepan 3 4:45-Just Chillin' vs. Box In, Box Out 4:00-Sweet Scottie P. & The Dwar1s vs. J-Crew 5:30 -Multiple Scoregasms vs. Prof. Longhair & Cotton Knit The Nighttrain Express 
4:45 -Cotton Club vs. Eddie & The Cruisers 6:15-Rubber Cement II vs. Shirts 
5:30 -Nubian Pharoahs vs. Cab's Crew 
6:15-Clock Work Orange vs. Environmental Bookstore 10 Rapists 4:00-Fastbreak vs. Small But Huge 
4:45 -All The President's Men vs. Club Stepan 4 Meerschaum 4:00-Air Check & Ground Support vs. The 5:30-IBM vs. Beer, Broads & Bookstore. 
Fuddy Duddies 6:15-No "I" In Team vs. Remember It's Denver 4:45-Hank Will Never Die vs. Digger Phelps, Sal Annese & 3 Other Guys Who Won't See Denver 5:30-CJ's Pub vs. The Danks 6:15-Peaches vs. VITI & 4 Other Cool Dudes Results for Monday's Women's Games 
Lyons 11 Stepan 5 Murray's Madness over The Pinkladies by 15 
4:00 -Tequila While lightning vs. South 4 Girls Who like To Score With Their Feet & 1 Bend/Mishawaka Still Alive With Pride Who's Under 4'8" over Absolute Knott by 12 
4:45 -The Gauchos vs. Rabid Dawgs 5:30-Expresso Pizza vs. Silent Assassins Lyons 12 
6:15 -Reckless Abandon vs. 3rd & Short Grubs over Deadbeats by 15 
Virgin Mary's over J.D.'s Flunkies by 16 Stepan 6 CJ's Gals over Buck-45 by 15 
4:00 -Lenny's Swollen Udders vs. Anti-Slug Team AP/John Hancock 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL National League LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Placed Jay Howell, 
pitcher, on the 21-day disabled list. Moved Pat Perry, pitcher, from the 21-day to the 30-day disabled list. ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Traded John Costello, pitcher, to the Montreal Expos lor Rex Hudler. infielder. Purchased Tom N1edenluer, pitcher. from Louisville of the Amencan Association. 
BASKETBALL National Basketball Association ATLANTA HAWKS-Announced the resignation 
of Mike Fratello, head coach. NEW YORK KNJCKS-Activated Charles Oakley, forward. lor the playoffs. Deactivated Greg Buller, center 
FOOTBALL 
National Football league NEW YORK JETS-Waived Kyle Mackey. quarterback. SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Traded Tim McKyer, cornerback. to the Miami Dolphins for a 1990 11th­round draft pick and a 1991 second-round draft pick. 
COLLEGE 
UC-SANTA BARBARA-Named Donald lowry, acting tennis coach. permanent coach. FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON-Announced the resignation of Chris Heimer. men's assistant basketball coach, so he may take a similar position at Montana State. NORTH CAROLINA STATE-Named las Rob1nson head basketball coach. 
Stepan 7 We're Clueless over Verpiss Dich by 15 5 Countries in Search of 1 Fertile Peninsula ove1 
5 Funny Fickle Females Sitting Sipping Scotch by 8 
Tuesday, April 24 Games 
Stepan 7 
4:00 
4 Girls on a Caffeine Buzz vs. Sheephead and Her Flock 

Stepan 8 

4:00 
Better Off Wet vs. 3 to Bounce and 2 tor the Road 


Lyons 11 
4:00 Lethal Weapon V vs. Sexual Chocolate 
5:00 Shoot to Kill vs. Irish Fish Out of Water 
6:00 Breaking the 3rd B vs. Hop. Skip. and Go Naked 
lyons 12 
4:00 In Direct Violation vs. Windy City Wenchetl 
5:00 The Smell of a Female vs. Supreme Court 
6:00 Fly Girls vs. Fast Break 

The Unlverslt) Libraries of Notre Dame c r~lebra te 
TODAY ONLY 
4:00
National Library Week 
BRYAN MILLER
April 22-28, 1990 
TRUMPET 
Special Library Line -239-6680 
Maaday -Thunday. 1000 Ull. -5:00 PM, April23-26, 1990 
LIVE IN CONCERT
Make suggestions! Get answers! University Libraries' administrators will handle calls! 
ANNENBERG
Win $50 Database search Register at Hesburgh or any of the five 
AUDITORIUM 
branch database locations 

•

Six winners will be drawn 
FREE
University Libraries-check them out! 
-----~--------~----~~--------------------~---~------­
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, April 24, 1990 
Women 
continued from page 16 

"The first half lasted about 50 minutes and wound up at 11-8 , " said 4 Girls' Shannon Jenkins, " but we came out in the second half and really wanted to win." 
In the closest matchup of the dav. 5 Countries in Search of a Peninsula overcame a first­half deficit to win 21-13 over Five Funny Fickle Female Sitting Sipping Scotch. Finding themselves in the second half, 5 Countries' Kristen Kinsfogel claimed that stamina and or­ganization factored heavily in the second-half run. 
"They were ahead most of the first half," said Kinsfogel, "but 
Draft 
continued from page 16 

brother {former Irish tailback Hiawatha Francisco) was in a similar situation, but a bad knee kept him out of the pros. I haven't made the team yet, but it's a good step." 
Washington lost several defensive backs through Plan B free agency in the offseason, prompting the need to select a defensive back. But questions about Francisco's speed (he ran a 4.65 40-yard dash at the Indianapolis combine) and lack of experience at the safety posi­tion surrounded his selection by the Redskins. 
"I was drafted as a corner­back/safety,'' said Francisco. "They questioned me about my speed, but I told them I hadn't run a healthy 40 since the tri­als. I didn't get to show them what I am capable of. I knew I wouldn't go early because of my lack of experience and posi­tion change (tailback to safety), but the situation is there for me to contribute. I've done all I can do to prepare." 
Brown, who started the last two seasons at tight tackle for Notre Dame, was the 316th player taken in the draft. An honorable mention All-America 
We Ship UPS $100 Free Insurance Boxes & Tape Phone 277-6245 

pick in '89, the 6-3, 291-pound senior should stabilize an offensive line which recently lost the services of All-Pro Chris Hinton to Atlanta in the Jeff George deal. 
"Indianapolis is the place for me," said an enthusiastic Brown. ''I'm excited about being a Hoosier for a long period of time. I'm fortunate I could go to a team like the Colts." 
Brown is the second Irish player taken by Indianapolis. Fullback Anthony Johnson, the first Notre Dame senior taken in the draft, was a second­round selection on Sunday. 
"It will be nice to have a familiar face on the team,'' said Brown. "He'll make the whole experience go smoother for 
me." 

Quarterback Tony Rice, who finished fourth in the ·89 Heisman Award voting and led the Irish to a 28-3 record and a National Championship in his three years as a starter, was 
the biggest name not selected either Sunday or Monday. 
Rice declined comment on the draft but announced he has no intention of attending NFL camps as a free agent. He will wait to hear from the Canadian Football League, where his skills as an option quarterback may be better suited to the 

On Campus 5/5-5/12 LaFortune-Dooley Room Avoid the Mall Traffic $1.00 OFF with this Ad 

Convenient location Less than a Mile from Campus on S.R. 23 Just Past Ironwood. By the Subway Open Sunday Apri/29 & May 6 
College of Business Admj nj strati on Speaker Presentation 
Ms. Deboreh Kelly V1 ce President -Corporete A ffe1 rs Queker Oets Compeny 
12:15 pm Wednesday April 25 
221 Heyes Heely 
Topic: "Merket1ng Long-Term Dbj ect1 ves e.nd Streteg1 es In A Veer When Tergets W111 Be Missed." 
A11 students e.nd feculty 1 nv1ted end encoureged to ettend. 
we just kept going when they got tired." 
Other games Monday were not nearly as close. Grubs couldn't revive the Deadbeats as they triumphed 21-6 while Murphy's Madness defeated The Pink Ladies and We're Clueless beat Veipisst Dish by the same score. Virgin Mary's held their opponent, J.D.'s Flunkies to a mere five points. 
wider fields. 
''I'm going to Canada," Rice stated matter-of-factly. 
The Los Angeles Raiders traded the rights to defensive back Stan Smagala, their fifth­round selection, to Dallas for Minnesota's sixth round choice, New England's eighth round choice, Seattle's ninth round choice, Indianapolis's 10th round choice, and San Francisco's 11th round choice, all in 1990. The Los Angeles Raiders traded Minnesota's sixth round choice to New Orleans. 
j 

SPORTS BRIEFS The Notre Dame baseball team plays a doubleheader 
with Chicago State tonight at Stanley Coveleski Stadium at 5 p.m. 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team will host 
Fordham in the NIT Big Apple Pre-season NIT on 
November 15, 1990. The final games will be held at 
Madison Square Garden in New York. 
The Hapkido Club meets Tues. at 7:30 and Thurs. at 8: 
p.m. in Rm. 219, Rockne. Learn Self-defense and stop worrying about walking alone. For more info, call x3597. 
Fisher Hall's "On the Grass Classic", two-person volleyball tournament, will be held this weekend, April 28­
29. Cost is ten dollars per team and all proceeds will go to Andre House, a shelter for the homeless in Phoenix, Ariz. Anyone wishing to enter the tournament should contact Tim Maloney at 283-1939 or stop by Room 140 in Fisher. Deadline for entry is Friday at 7 p.m. 
Women's Lacrosse practice will be held today and the rest of this week at 4:00 p.m. in front of Angela. If you can't make the game this Saturday call Jeff (234-9878). 
The Jordan Jammers Mini-Hoops will begin on Wednesday. Check the pairings and time schedules today at the SUB office in LaFortune. If there are any questions call 239-7757 or Rick at 234-9716. 
The Reebok Super Shot Contest participants should check the SUB office today for playing times. 
CARRIAGE HOUSE 

Dinner Seltctions 
\ 
\ 

Buf WrUlnrton, C6nter cuttrnderloln uared, c:rowntd With /{wr patt ond rnc:losrd lfl a rich pam-,, \ with burr1mdlart sauet and d1tc:hus potat/H.S r.....ni)'·'TWo Doll,_, 
Frrnrh Lamb Drops, Grllf.d with our """' 101 butttr Itlucr 
~n,..SI.x!Mf/tlrs 

Vttll ilt~lltmorr, So~ttrd t:~~tltt, topped with kfnr crab DNl JtJ~ suprrmr £/rhw:n Dotft~rs Dnd Fifty Crnll Vtal Pfca/ID, E.rmllops of thinly :Uctd wed with ltiUII ond CtJptrr Fourrrtn DoiiDrl Ttniltrl4ln'df·Port. Roon"''otu/IIIcftl wlih bf11dc pq~prrmnu Gnd por1 wittt Iaurt Ff/lt~:nDolltJrs 
.MttiCJltloiu of Btl/, $Du11rd wtth wild miU'htoom~, 0111011 and brr/ drm/rlazr 
Ftmrtttn Dollan LDmb Cllopr, Prlmt lt~ltt c:ltops rrlllrJ with 'llrJitt ollw Gil EJrhtttlf Dollars Prtrt, Cc.trr r~t tlndtrloln of buf with cannrlltrd CHI/Ott EIJhtrrn Dol/Drs FJitt Mlrnott, Grllltd with BIDdc Fora/ mu:ltrooms/onloru ond coHmtt ftlllltr T'.HntyDollarl Ntw Yol't Strip, Small rp nrlp Jltoi JtoJonrd and 1rfllld £Jrhtrrf!Dolltm Vtnlfon, Sauttrd with dtof!ttrtllt f!1lllhroom.J a~td sMIIou Slxurn Dollars o.Ni F1ft7 Crn11 Ono Bucco, VrolshtvtJu, bra/srd with 70:~!~: ;;:J, ":,"'
11 Odtbll Clttu'fhnn1f1, .)GIItled bmut of ddtUn, mwJ/lrooms GJtd whitt wiflt 
!Oflrrnn thllGn l:JlleA:tn Rlcotlll. SN!rd dtltktn brttUI, spiMrh arwJ rlcottd dttsr and wl'mD"'h sauce Slnun 'Dol/or~ Crufl#na. DwctflnJ, B~t of dwct. marCM!cd lr' sorthlllft molrusu a!ld frllUd wWt o rro!Uid nuutard 
C~IGIIC:t 
F1/trrn :Dolltm 

'lf11bflt1oLtuipti, ··U,n·of/HJsla, lob:trilt::;i:t:;~;:.~ru and ctWJm 
·t.on 3'u)HrJQI' W7!Ut Fbh. BolcH In Pf4,:Urry Wtrh spiMrh -ttrtirst souc:t 
F"rtt~fl!»lllln 
1to,..B-{lut.ifo,..,.,pn SAlmon, MDrlfllJltd ftlm rrllltd 
£Jrlttrrrt Dollar~ 

3tlfi6Y,,·li'fl· IMJtld JI/J tN/ItJpl C'OIJJ~~!!t,;,~/!;:ttJ t:Mimblo htHII lind diMII """'' 
All dl1111tr1 art 1rrwd wlt11 a sull'lmtr solod of mi.J:td grtl!rtl l'fMIJI'flllt drtllilfl. altd SOIIp of lht da] 
Drs~trrs will bt p~ltflrtd tablultl• Coffutlr Tta lirpr•uo ca,.putelt1CJ 0flt Dollnr Ont Dollnrond Fifty CtniJ Twrl Dnllnr, 
DINING ROOM 
We offer a unique menu served in an elegent environment. Come enjoy with us. 
We are located at 24660 Adams Road. 
Call Evelyn George at 272-9220 for reservations. 
MUSICIANS T~NOTE! 
r F F I U U d t :!1 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE MUSIC GROUP LEADERS NEEDED for SUNDAY MASSES 
1990-91 Academic Year 
Opening for pianists, guitarists, strong vocalists or flutists 
PAID POSITION THROUGH FINANCIAL AID 
Interested persons should contact Sister Betty Smoyer, S.N.O. Campus Ministry160 Regina Hall Phone 284-5392 
~~-~~------------------~~ 
Tuesday, April 24, 1990 The Observer page 13 




Arthur Andersen Welcomes the Following 1990 University of Notre Datne and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firtn 

Mary M. Baron 
Boston Office 
John M. Baumer 
Chicago Office 
Scott J. Brachmann 
Chicago Office 
Paul A. Brauweiler 
Chicago Office 
Craig A. Brummel Los Angeles Office 
Michael A. Caponigro 
Chicago Office 
Richard J. Condon 
Boston Office 
Sheila E. Dooley 
Chicago Office 
Jeffrey M. Douglass 
Houston Office 
Sean T. Fitzpatrick 
Seattle Office 
John R. Fullett 
Chicago Office 
Brian P. Gallagher 
Chicago Office 
Paul H. Kettler 
Fort Lauderdale Office 
Kerry K. Kitch 
Chicago Office 
Elizabeth J. Kozak 
Chicago Office 
Mary Rose Lalli 

Washington, D.C. Office 
Kevin C. Lane 
Chicago Office 
Brian J. Leahy 
Chicago Office 
Danielle M. McClure 
Chicago Office 
Joseph F. Meyer 
Chicago Office 
Deirdre A. Milon 
Chicago Office 
Daniel M. Molyneaux 
Chicago Office 
James K. Rojas 
Chicago Office 


Steve F. Schueppert 
St. Louis Office 
Melissa K. Stapleton 
Indianapolis Office 
Michelle A. Soper 
Chicago Office 
Thomas G. Tomasula 
Cleveland Office 
Jean Van Brackel 
Columbus Office 
Joseph B. Vierhile 
Chicago Office 
Todd P. Wagenblast 
Indianapolis Office 
Monica M. Wochner 
Chicago WHO Office 
Marcia A. Zeese 
Chicago Office 


.... 


---~~-~----~~ --~-~--­
page 14 The Observer 
Softball takes two from St. Francis 
By RICHARD MATHURIN Sheri Quinn provided the of­helped by atrocious Irish de­
Sports Writer 

fensive highlight for the Irish fense. 
with her second inning home In the bottom of the fourth, 
After a triumphant victory in run which cleared the center the Irish broke a 3-3 deadlock. the MCC tournament over the field fence. It was the first time Quinn led off with a single, and weekend, the Notre Dame soft­this season that an Irish player Lisa Miller, who has produced ball team returned home and has hit the ball out of the park. many clutch hits for the Irish, swept NAIA school St.Francis "I hit it hard, but I got under lashed a double to the left field by scores of 5-1 and 4-3 on it a little, so I didn't know if it gap. Quinn ran through a stop Monday. The Irish moved their would go out," Quinn said, de­sign at third and scored the go­record to 18-13 with the two scribing her blast. ahead run. victories, and even though the The Irish added three runs in In the bottom of the seventh, they won the MCC tournament, the fifth, when freshmen Casey the Irish got into trouble when they still have 12 games re­McMurray and Ronny Alvarez Alford walked a batter and the maining on their schedule. led off the inning with singles. game had to be saved by a 
Sophomore pitcher Missy Laurie Sommerlad followed quick thow to the plate by Linn dominated the first game with a single that scored Sommer lad. going all the way for the vic­McMurray, while Alvarez "We were really tenacious tory. The only run scored by St. scored on an errant throw to and played well. It was a great Fran~is occurred on an error, the plate. The Irish added a accomplishment winning the 
so Linn was charged with no single run in the sixth on a run­MCC tournament, I'm really 
earned runs. scoring single by junior Megan proud of the girls," said coach 
"I was a little off and my Fay. Brain Boulac. 
riser (fastball) was off, but Freshman Staci Alford "It was my fault for walking 
catcher Amy Folsom called a started for the Irish in the the girl, but I knew if we could 
great game," said Linn describ­nightcap. She appeared to keep it in the infield, we'd be 
ing her performance. struggle early, but was not okay," said Alford. 



Men's golf team emerges 25th in strong field at Akron 
By ANTHONY KING ence for the young Irish. Not only will this tourney give golf," said Thomas. "It's in this host Ohio State, which is look­Sports Writer "Firestone was a very tight the Irish good experience, but level of competition that we ing for its 1Oth straight title. 
and demanding course, and the prestige of the event will have to learn to survive if we 
most of the time there wasn't a carry some weight also. want to achieve our long term For the sixth time in eight 
The Notre Dame men's golf lot of space to work with," said Thomas thinks this type of goal of receiving an NCAA tournaments, senior co-captain team finished 25th in a tough Thomas. "I think it was very experience is exactly the kind tournament bid." Pat Mohan led the Irish, field of 32 teams at the Akron challenging for the our team they needed for future NCAA shooting a 227. He was fol­Invitational this weekend. Irish and they learned a lot from it. bids. Kent State took the tourney, lowed by freshman Joe Dennen coach George Thomas was We're now beginning to play shooting 885 for 54 holes. In and junior co-captain Paul pleased with the team's per­true championship courses and "This tournament will also their upcoming tournament in Nolta at 238, sophomore Mike formance, but he especially felt we need this type of experi­help because it has moved us Columbus, the Irish will meet O'Connell at 240 and freshman it was a great learning experi-ence." into the fast lane of collegiate Kent State again, along with Chris Dayton at 243. 
Men 

continued from page 16 Rubber Cement II, while Scott 
Winsor,  Erik  Madsen  and  
Demetrios  DuBose  had  five  
each.  

Rubber Cement II returns four players from last year's successful squad with DuBose being the lone newcomer. DuBose and Winsor played for the first time on Monday after­noon. 
Random 
continued from page 16 
playoffs. 

Hanford has been equal to the task. His performance has staked a team which has been outshot by a total of 99-66 in three games against the Los Angeles Kings to the verge of the semifinals. The Oilers now hold a commanding 3-0 lead in the best-of-seven series and could wrap it up tonight with a win in L.A. Hanford has seven wins and only three losses in the playoffs and boasts a goals-against-average of just 2.50. 
Was anybody else surprised when the Pittsburgh Steelers took tight end Eric Green of Liberty College with their first pick (21st overall) in the NFL draft? Don't be. Green stands 
... tall at 6-4 and weighs 270 pounds and has caught 99 passes for 1 ,442 yards in in four seasons at Liberty. Although Liberty is a small school, NFL teams are looking more and more to such small schools for talent, and it is paying off. Christian Okoye of the Kansas City Chiefs, who led the league in rushing last season, was drafted in 1987 out of Azusa Pacific. All-Pro guard Tom Newberry of the Los Angeles Rams was selected in 1986 out of Wisconsin­Lacrosse. So don't be surprised if Green proves to be just as competent as his opponents from the better-known football schools. 
"I thought w~ played really well," Kraker said. "It was good to have DuBose and Winsor play with us today. That really helped inside. We played as well today as we've played in the tourney." 
All The President's Men ad­vanced with a 21-14 win against Unmarried With Children. Tequila White Lightning rolled over Noxious Gas 21-8, while Nubian Pharoahs downed L-Train 21­14. 
Craig Creamean scored 11 points to lead Peaches to a 21­8 triumph over Club 22, and C.J.'s Pub beat 0' Malley's 21­
17. 
In the highest scoring game of the day, Reckless Abandon edged Dry Heaves & Drool 23­
21. In other close games, We Ain't Soft got past Salt, Salt, 
Salt  Shakah  21-18  and  
Environmental  Rapists  beat  
Stuff Fest 21-19.  


~ MO'rch of Dimes
'It' -llllii81RJH..DEFEC1S FOUNDATIONIIiliillii 
SUMMER STORAGE FOR STUDENTS 
High St. Storage 
1212 High St. 
288-3575 


Happy 21st Birthday Rob Gerberry 
Love, Dad, Virginia, Tracy, Chris, and Jason 

Why Send Your Winter Clothes Home for the Summer? 
Just pick up a storage box at llker Cleaners, Fill it wltli ·your winter clothes, and ratum It to Zikan to be claned and alorad, on hangen Ia our moth-proof vault for the sum... 
*Low Cost Storage*lothiag to Pay Till Fall 
*Protection hom Motbs/nre/fteft*More Closet Space lor your 
sum... things. 
I Cmmadal Lacalloll1 
*107 us 31 
(•croa rr.a ... lalla)
172-8093 
*lroawood .a Soldla Bead Ava. ~ext to Militias)
ee:.wood Sbapplag 
IJI.a481 
~---------­




The Observer_____________
Tuesday, April 24, 1990 page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
"Well, there he goes again ... 'Course, I guess I did the same thing at his age-checking every day to see if I was becoming a silverback." 

22 Half a score 24 Ship section 26 Light caster 27 Freight vessel 28 Record 
29 Hit a perfect serve 30 Conn 33 Greek letters 34 Aide: Abbr. 35 Buzzers  40 Depart, as in 38 Down 44 Seat for two 45 Wages 46 Pooh' 47 Charmer's snake  54 Is under the weather 55 Persia today 56 Destroy cells 58 Faucet 59 Albee's "­and Yam"  
SPELUNKER  JAY HOSLER  


So, WHAT lXl YA 5AY, BABE, 
IJAIJ NA 610 BACK TO M'l ROOM AND ALMOST Do IT? 
I 
The World's 
IA>ngest 
Running Musical-­Now in its 
30thYear!! 

s,~bySUB 
Pcrfonning Arts 
Book and Lyrics byTOMJONFS 
Music by HARVEY SCHMIDT Thursday, April 26th thru 

Saturday. April 28th 
7:30pm Washington Hall 
$5 General Public 
$3 Student&Senior Citizens 
Reserved SeatingTickets are available at the LaFortuneStudent Center Box Office. Phone: 239-8128 
• 

6:30 p.m. Films, "Adynata," and "Hollywood Killed Me," Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND communication and theatre. 
7:30 
p.m. Film. "Death of a Bureaucrat·," Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND communication and the­atre. 

7:30 
p.m. Film, "Shonshine," Hoom 206 Architecture Building. Sponsored by ND School of Architecture AlAS. 


6 p.m. Choir concert featuring the music of Thea Mus­grave, guest composer. Little Theatre, Saint Mary's. Sponsornd by deptartment of music. 
9:15p.m. Film, "Down by Law," Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsornd by ND communication and theatre. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
4 p.m. Lecture, "Prosaics, Ethics, and Literature -or. the Errors of Thnoreticism," Gary Saul Morson, professor of Slavic languages and director of comparative literature and theory, Northwestern University. Hoom 120 Law School. Sponsored by the department of German and Bus­sian languages and literatures under the auspices of the Culpeper Foundation Lecture Series in Comparative Liter­ature. 
7:30p.m. Lneture, "The Future of Women in the Church," Bishop William McManus and Bishop Ken Untener. lies­burgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by the Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women. 
6 p.m. Thfl Last Lecture Series will conclude tonight with a presentation by Professor Thomas Morris of the philos­ophy department. Theodore's. 
MENUS

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Veal Parmesan Roast Top Round of Beef Make Your own Burrito Bar Baked Codfish Macaroni and Cheese Macaroni and Cheese I lot Meatloaf Sandwich Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
~.'flllfo.l 
HAPP£1'\Et> ?.1 iQIJ 'ftER£ ON\:i OJT l\\E.IIt ~ ~lt~IJT£! 
1'13 NOC 
PLt>-'liG 
Bt>.\k6/>.LL 
t.OO'l li()RE! 
t-1£S'at.R. ~GAIN I 
I W..O£ II.' 
ACROSS 
1 Sacred fig tree of India 
6 Defect 10 Jason's ship 14 Worship 15 Top-notch 16 Tavern quaff 17 Preparation 
fighting cavities 19 Land measure 20Wiseone 21 Facilitate 221van and 
Nicholas 23 Hastened 25 Like a certain 
Hollow 27 Alternative to an elevator 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~+-±:.+=:-+=-! 
~~)~~­

-:':++.~~; 
H.,:.,+:±:+:­
-=+:~~ 
-::-t:-:+=+.-:.--:i 


30 Tolerate 31 Cocoa source 32 Dick and Harry's 
companion 33 Bill 36 Request from a 
D.D.S. 41 Forsake 
bachelorhood 42 Cravat 43 Titillate 44 Opera extra's 
prop 46 Apes Chubby 
Checker 47 Lambastes 49Wang-, P. 
Buck character 50 Spoils 
51 Pope in W.W. II 
53 Kind of road or bird 57 Adjoin 58 Tot's banker? 
so Gaelic 
61 "Comus" 
composer 
62 Planet carrier 
63 Evaluate 64 Yarborough holder's bid 65 Legal middle 
DOWN 
1 Exaggerates an expense account 2 Thought 3 Ping follower 4 Kind of well 5 Hawaiian garland 6 Volt unit 7 Actress Nettleton 8 Progenitor 
9"--Small Hours," D. Mann tune 
10 Lowered 11 Sum up, in short 
12 A V.P. under Madison 
13 Mine finds 
18 Professional charges 

J 
l 
I 
t 
I ~ I 
I 
---~--___...__...,.~~~---~
-~-~~~--------~------~---~--­
Sports
page 16 

Bookstore hvsteria · 
Jackson's squad del8ats Fredrick's 

By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 

Joe Fredrick scored the points, but Jamere Jackson got the win Monday after­noon in Bookstore Basketball XIX. 
Fredrick scored 10 points for Return of Skip Holtz, War Memorial and 3 Other Useless Blocks, but that wasn't enough as Jackson's Soul Sonic Force squad won 21-17. 
Fredrick and Jackson were co-captains for the 1989-90 Notre Dame basketball team. Jackson hit 3-of-4 shots in Monday's win. 
"We didn't tell Jamere that 
we were playing against 
Fredrick's team," said 
Bryant Dabney, who scored 
three points for Soul Sonic 
Force. "He didn't know it 
until gametime. It was kind 
of weird." 

Soul Sonic Force streaked 
to a 11-4 halftime lead, but 
that advantage was steadily 
Blowouts mark women's 1st round 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Shellacking was the word of the day in women's book­store action Monday as the first-round continued and teams served notice on whom to watch heading to­wards the finals. 
With the field reducing to 32 after today, C.J's Gals demonstrated why they're favored to make it to the fi­nal eight. Featuring two players who approach the six-foot mark, C.J's con­trolled the inside game and downed Buck-45, 21-6. 
"We seemed just to play really well together," said C.J's Noreen Wolohan, who credited Liz Toohey and former Irish basketball player Cathy Emigholz as pacing the win. Emigholz scored eight and Toohey cut down in the second half. Dorsey Levens scored eight points to pace the winners, while Martin Somerville tossed in five. 
"There were totally two different halves," Bryant said. "In the second half, we got kind of lazy. They came back and tightened up the game." 
Malicious Prostitution, the defending champs, kept alive its repeat hopes with a 21­10 victory over De Ia SouL Jon Bergmann tallied eight hoops to key the winners. 
Former Notre Dame bas­ketball center Keith Robinson hit 14-of-18 shots to lead Raw Talent to a 21­12 win against Big AI & Bibbles. 
Rubber Cement II stayed on track for a second con­secutive Sweet Sixteen ap­pearance with a 21-13 tri­umph. Phil Kraker scored a game-high six points for 
see MEN I page 14 

seven while both dominated the offensive boards. 
Buck-45's Johanna Kelly commented that her oppo­nents, three of whom made it to the final 16 on Orange Crush last year, possessed great overall skills. 
"They just did everything better than us," said Kelly, "good passing, defense, ev­eryt.?ing. They'll probably go far. 
While height was a definite advantage for C.J. 's, it proved to be insignificant for other teams as 4 Girls Who Like to Score with Their Feet and One Who's Under 4'8" beat Absolute Knott 21-9. With their shortest player just under 5'2", 4 Girls... found that desire and organization propelled them to victory. 
see WOMEN I page 12 
Tuesday, April 24, 1990 

Another three drafted on 2nd day
Bolcar, Francisco and Brown get the call, Rice ignored 

By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 
When the Indianapolis Colts selected offensive guard Dean 
Brown in  the  12th and  final  
round  of  Monday's  National  
Football  League  draft.  it  

brought the number of Irish seniors taken in the '90 draft to nine. the most for any Notre Dame class in eleven years. 
Linebacker Ned Bolcar, a sixth-round selection of the Seattle Seahawks. was the first of three Notre Dame seniors taken in the second day of the draft, bringing the two-day to­tal to nine. The class of 1979. which included Pro Bowler Joe Montana. had ten. 
Bolcar, a two-time Irish cap­tain and second-team All­American in '87 and '89, re­ceived the call from Seattle just fifteen minutes after the draft resumed on Monday morning. He was the 146th player se­lected overalL 
"I was a little disappointed," said Bolcar. "I was hoping to go a little higher. A lot of ju­niors were coming out, and linebacker was the strongest position in the draft. 
"But Seattle called 15 minutes 
NedBolcar 

after the draft started today, and I was excited. It is a good program, a quality organiza­tion and Andy Heck is there. It will be nice to know somebody." 
Bolcar was projected as a fifth-round pick by many draft analysts. but his lack of speed 
(4.85 in the 40-yard dash) con­cerned NFL scouts. Nonetheless. the fifth-year se­nior's aggressiveness and abil­ity to shut down the run at-
Lacrosse loses to Ohio Wesleyan 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team suffered an injurious set­back this past weekend, drop­ping a 16-5 decision to the Battling Bishops of Ohio Wesleyan in the unfriendly con­fines of Selby Field, the Bishops' home arena in Delaware, Ohio. 
Freshman midfielder Ed Lamb of Manlius. N.Y. was the offensive sparkplug for the Irish, scoring two goals on the afternoon. Notre Dame's other scores came from junior mid­fielder John Capano, freshman midfielder Brian Mayglothling and senior attacking phe­nomenon Brian McHugh of Parsippany. N.J. 
The loss was the 1Oth for the Irish in the overall series with 

Ohio Wesleyan, which, improv­
ing  to  10-2  for  the  season,  
holds  a  commanding  10-0  
series  edge.  Yet  the  Irish,  

whose record slipped to 7-6, are still in the hunt for a bid to the NCAA Division I tourna­ment. provided that they can overcome the two remaining hurdles in their season: home matches against neighboring titans of the Big Ten-the Ohio State Buckeyes and Michigan State Spartans. Additionally, Notre Dame's loss to Ohio Wesleyan dropped the Irish's road record to 3-5 for the 1990 campaign, as opposed to a near-perfect 4-1 home record. 
"We just played very poorly," stated Notre Dame head coach Kevin Corrigan. "We really took a big step backwards. Still. if we win our next two matches, we will go to the NCAA tour­nament. This loss does not af­fect our tournament chances. but we don't want to take any steps backwards. We play every game to win. and each game is an opportunity for us to improve-we didn't take advan­tage of that opportunity this weekend. This loss was not the end of the world. We still have two games remaining, and our team has always said that our goal was reaching the NCAA Tournament. That's all that 
needs to be said." 
"It was just a disappointing game," concurred Dave Carey. senior midfielder and co-cap­tain of the Irish squad. "But our two biggest games of the season are still in front of us." 
Notre Dame next faces Ohio State on Saturday at 4 p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 

The random arena of sports talk 
Some random obser­vat ions in no particular order: 

Sunday may have been the darkest day in Chicago sports in re­cent memory. The Blackhawks lost to St. Louis after taking a 4­3 lead with 5:22 left in a crucial playoff game. Ken Tysiac The White Sox allowed a home run to Felix World of Sports Fermin. who hadn't homered in 655 major league at-bats, in a loss to Cleveland. The Cubs lost to the Pirates, and the Bears were lambasted by the media for making former USC safety Mark Carrier the sixth pick overall in the NFL draft. 
After a two-month sabbatical which allowed her broken thumb to heal, Steffi Graf is back in business in more ways than one. Graf won the Bausch & Lomb Championships in Amelia Island, Florida in her first tournament after the layoff. She also hit the newsstands with an eye-popping photo spread in Vogue. Whether the photos will change Grafs stern image remains to be seen. but it looks like she is going to pick up right where she left off in her tennis exploits. 
Referees in the National Basketball 
tracted the Seahawks. who are switching from a 4-3 defense to a 3-4 set. 
"It's a big relief to get it over with," said Bolcar. "I just want to prove I can play for them. Brian Bosworth is questionable because of his shoulder, so they don't know whether he will be there or not. Dave Wyman is doing well now, and they have a couple of older linebackers who are good players. I should be able to come in and contribute at inside linebacker with the 3­4 defense. because they need in­side linebackers." 
Safety D'Juan Francisco re­ceived a call from the Washington Redskins late in the seventh round to see how interested he was in playing for them. He also heard from Washington in the eighth and ninth rounds, but the only call that mattered came in the tenth when the Redskins made him the 262nd player taken in the draft. 
"''m delighted," said Francisco from his home in Cincinnati, Ohio. "This is a dream come true for me. It means a lot to me because my 
see DRAFT I page 12 

Association should be forced to carry a tranquilizer gun when they work a game involving Rick Mahorn. Mahorn, who was once the ringleader of the "Bad Boys" in Detroit, managed to involve himself in a scuffle with his ex-Piston teammates last week as his Philadelphia 76ers beat Detroit 107-97. 
Besides the fact that the record-breaking fines resulting from that fight won't send anybody to the poor house. the only sure thing is that with Mahorn and Charles Barkley in the lineup it will be at least as hard to beat up the Sixers in the NBA playoffs as it will be to beat them. 
Notre Dame's Tony Rice is not the only quarterback who felt snubbed after the National Football League draft. West Virginia's Major Harris was not picked until the 12th round and says he will sign with the British Columbia Lions of the Canadian Football League. Harris was chosen 317th out of the 331 players taken in the draft. 
Goalie Grant Fuhr helped the Edmonton 
Oil~rs capture four Stanley Cups in the 
1980s. When Fuhr reinjured his left shoulder 
just before this year's playoffs it became 
clear that his heir-apparent, Bill Hanford, 
would have to step to the forefront if the 
Oilers were going to make a run at the NHL 
see RANDOM I page 14 

.. 
_j ! 





