
VOL. XXIII i\10. 69 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1990 
t 0 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Steinfels picked for 1991 ND cOmmencement 
Special to The Observer 
MargarPt O'Brit~n Steinfels, Pditor of Commonweal magazine, will address the Uni­V(;rsity of Notrll Dame's 146th CommencernPnt Exercises on May 19. 199 1. 
StPinfels is the first woman to Mlit the nation's most influen­tial Catholic magazine. and has hrmdnd the Commonweal edito­rial staff since 1988. The lay­~~dited Catholic joumal of public aiTairs. ndigion, literature and the arts is in its 66th year of publication. 
"Under Margaret Steinfels' editorship. what was already a finn pnriodical has strength­mwd its reputation as an indis­pensable voice in the conversa­tion of our Church." said Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy. "It seems appro­priate, especially during our Year of Women celebration, that we should hear an indis­pensable influence in that voice." 
Eileen Kolman. chair of the Year of Women, said she was pleased with the selection of a woman speaker. Submitting a list of over 50 women as poten­tial..speakers to Malloy, Kolman said she did not specify a pref­erence as to which woman to choose. "Our main thrust was that it be a woman," she said. 
"I think for the last couple of years, the University has gone with people with high name recognition" to speak at com-
Student Activities fees given with few limits 
By BETSY PUNSALAN dents Council, Student Senate, News Writer Judicial Council, and the Club Coordination Council, he said. 
Students contributed approx­The groups cannot use the imately $410.00 in Student Ac­money to buy alcohol, and any tivities Fees this year, all of expenditure over $5,000 must which will be allocated to cam­receive Senate approval. Other pus organizations to spend with than that, they are free to rnlatively few stipulations, spend it as they wish, Pasin according to Student Body said. 
President Hob Pasin. "It's through the clubs that 
Each student at the Univer­[the Student Activities Fee] sity is required to pay $55 each touches people the most," Han­year for the Student Activities ley said, since a large number Fee. This money is held by the of students are involved in the University in an account which many activities offered on cam­n1ceives approximately $800 of pus. interest per month, according "The Student Activities Fee to Student Body Treasun1r Jim also covers the debts of the 
llanley. businesses [on campus). "I look at the Student Activi­They've not been making ties F11e as a kind of tax," Han­money, although they're not ley said. losing as much as they used to. Houghly $HO,OOO, or 20 per­They're not really designed to cent of the Student Activities . make money in their pricing Fee, is used to fund the over structure," according to Hanley. 120 clubs, organizations, and "I have seen some waste in activities on campus, according the spending of the Student Ac­to Pasin. tivities Fee," Hanley admitted, 
The remaining 80 percent of citing organizations' "pizza the Stvdent Activities Fee is di­parties" as "really not a good vided among Student Govern­use of the money." mtmt, Student Union Board, 
see FEES I page 4 
class governments, Hall Presi-messages to send, and. I think this [selection of Steinfels) rep­resents a different kind of mes­sage, a different kind of role model," she said. 

Previously, Steinfels had been editor of Church, a publication of the National Pastoral Life Center; executive editor of Christianity and Crisis; editor of the Hastings Center Report; a reporter and columnist for the National Catholic Reporter, and a movie reviewer for Today. 
Steinfels' articles and reviews have appeared in these publications as well as in Jubilee, Catholic World, the New York Times Book Review, Psychology Today, the Los Angeles Times, the New York Times, the New Republic, and others. She is also author of "Who's Minding the Children? The Histor}(_ and Politics of Day Care in American." 
A Chicago native, Steinfels was graduated from Loyola University in 1963, studied art and film history at Columbia University. She took courses at the Sorbonne in Paris before obtaining a master's degree in American history from New York University in 1971. 
Steinfels is a board member of the National Center for the Laity and a former board member of the Catholic Press Association. She is married to former Commonweal editor Peter Steinfels, who is now reli­gion writer for the New York Times. 
1990-1991 St~dent Activity Fee Budget Breakdown Student Union Board: $158,650 Student Government: $76,800 
Soph. Lit. Fest. $11,200 Coli. Jazz Fest. $11,500 An Tostal 
Publicity
$10,000 
$24,000
Spec. Events $5,000 
Musical
Spirit 
Ent'ment
$750 $24,000
Services $3,000 Ideas & $32,000 
Performing Arts $12,500 
Allocations: $161,750 
Student  
Life  
Nat. Cath. Org  $4,500  
$1 ,000 ----E::::::.t~  
Legal Dept.  
$500  Public  
Intellectual Life  Relations  
$17,500  $18,000  

Student Activity Budget 
Student S.U.B.Government $158,650$76,800 
Sophomore Class  
$9,250  
Freshman Class  
$3,000  
Clubs and  Senate $1,150  
Org'tions  Judicial Council  
$81,000  $1,000  
ngency  
Exec. Council  Fund  
HPC  $7,000  $12,800  
Club Coord. Council  $34,000  

$4,500 

The Observer/Ken Osgood 

Holy night 
The manger scene at the Grotto is one of many reminders of the Christmas season on campus. Little visitor Christina Sullivan gets a close-up view on Monday night. 
Total 1990·91 Bugdet: $410,000 
The Observer/Michael Muldoon 

Industrial magnate Armand Hammer dies at age of 92 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Indus­trialist Armand Hammer was remembered Tuesday as a tire­less crusader for international peace who impJ:.Oved the human condition by investing millions in education, medicine and the arts. 
The flamboyant, globe-trot­ting chairman of Occidental Petroleum Corp., the nation's 16th largest industrial com­pany, died a-t his home in the Westwood district late Monday following a brief illness. He was 92. 
The cause of death was not revealed, although associates said privately Hammer had been suffering from kidney problems. He died just one day before a planned celebration for his belated bar mitzvah. 
Slammed by critics as a self­promoter more concerned with his image than corporate lead-

Soviet President Mikhail Gor­bachev said Hammer helped 
see HAMMER/ page 7 

Wednesday, December 12, 1990
page 2 The Obser\ter 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Madonna employs smut, not substance 
Yesterday I was lis­tening to the radio and heard a familiar Anna Marie female voice pant 
Tabor
"Wanting ... Needing ... Waiting." I grimaced and popped in a CD. Never underestimate Asst. SMC Editor the power of shock value. It has certainly worked for Madonna.·--------­
Being an avid follower of popular music, my interest in the elusive, energetic singer traGes back to the days of "Borderline" when she was the cute rebel with the belly­button. Because Madonna is so unpre­dictable, I was always slightly eager to see what issue she'd tackle next and what color her latest dye job would be. 
Madonna definitely has a unique style and is somewhat of a legend in her own time. In this business of Milli Vanilli's, I'd even say that she is multi-talented performer. While her image is not exactly wholesome, many of her contributions to the music industry have been positive. 
"Papa Don't Preach" can be interpre!ed as there being options other than abortiOn for an unplanned pregnancy. "Vogue" en­dorsed a street dance craze and gave The Roger Rabbit a rest. All of her songs are at least interesting or danceable. Until now. "Justify My Love" is not even palatable. 
In an interview on Nightline about the 
video that MTV refuses to air, "Justify My 
Love" was shown in its entirety. "Like A 
Prayer" raised a few eyebrows, but her lat­
est has been touted to astronomical 
heights. Which could be exactly what 
Madonna wanted. People will be curious to 
see what is so allegedly offensive and buy 
her video when it hits the market. 
Furthermore, if video stores refuse to 
carry the video single or put a warning 
label on it, it will be in even greater 
demand. Recall how controversy 
popularized "The Last Temptation of 
Christ." (Not that the two are in the same 
category.) 
Contrary to Madonna's iflsistence that she 
is encouraging sexuality awareness and 
open, healthy discussions with parents, I 
see nothing noble in her 'attempt. I also 
resent her telling me what I and everyone 
else fantasizes about. Since when are 
voyeurism and bisexuality universally 
desired? 
FRONTS: 
COLD Pressur(ii 
® © 
HIGH LOW 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon Wednesday, Dec. 12 
Lines show high temperatures. 
WARM STATIONARY 
t;~8 ~ m 

SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 
30  Yesterday's high: 50 Yesterday's low: ~ Nation's high: 8 2 (Monrovia, Calif.) Nation's low: 0 J:Gunnison, Colo.) Forecast: Sunny early today, followed by in­creasing cloudiness during the afternoon. Highs between 50 to 55. Mostly cloudy tonight. Lows in the middle 30s. Partly cloudy and much cooler Thursday. Highs around 40.  
0 A FLURRIES  EZJ SNOW  ICE  ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  

Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

OF INTEREST 
The Annual Christmas Pottery Sale, sponsored by the Department of Art, Art Histm:y and Design will be held today and tomorrow from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
An Advent penance service will be held today in St. Edward's Hall at 9:45 p.m. and in Lyons Hall at 11:00 p.m. 
There will be a mass in Spanish today at 5:00 p.m. at Sacred Heart in celebration of the Feast of Our Lady Guadalupe, Patroness of the Americas. A Mexican dinner will be held at 6:00 at the Center for Social Concerns, fol­lowed by a performance at b:30 by the Ballet Folkloricko Azul y Oro. 
WORLD 

Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze urged the Bush ad­ministration Tuesday to make a last­ditch diplomatic effort to avert war in the Persian Gulf. "It is also my strong hope that U.S. troops will not see ac­tion," Shevardnadze said at a news conference near the end of a two-day meeting here with Secretary of State 

James Baker. Referring to the high-level talks President Bush has proposed with Iraq, the Soviet foreign minister said; "We pin much hope on the coming contacts." But Baker said Baghdad had still not agreed on a date for him to go to Iraq to see President Saddam Hussein. He of­fered any time between Dec. 20 and Jan. 3, but again re­jected any Iraqi attempt to delay the visit until just before the Jan. 15 deadline set by the U.N. Security Council for Iraq to pull out or face the prospect of military measures. 
Norway, which already has the world's most ex­pensive cigarettes, is trying to stop smoking everywhere indoors and wipe out the habit in a decade. Even a smoker's home may not be his castle for long. Schools and day-care centers tell children about the dangers of passive smoking and encourage them to tell their parents to quit or smoke outside. Norwegians with tobacco habits are responding by rolling their own cigarettes, using butts over again, taking snuff and smoking on balconies. Tore Sanner, a professor at the Oslo Cancer Institute and head of the smoke-free campaign, granted that the num­ber of smokers has remained constant for 10 years de­spite increasingly aggressive measures. About 1.2 million Norwegians smoke, or 37 percent of the population, but fewer young people are starting. Tobacco consumption has dropped only marginally, to 6,700 metric tons a year from 6,800 in 1980. 
I try to look at it this way: Madonna can only go so far before she has to tone it down. The next cut might have a little sub­stance or at least a good beat and not rely on hype and hormones to sell records. Un­fortunately, that's what seems to be what we buy. The Controversy Queen knows this. I'd like to see her redeem herself by taking a stand on a less over-worked subject than sex and use an approach other than the dangling -carrot-in-front-of-the-donkey, scandal-ridden method. 
Then again, maybe Madonna has mas­tered human nature. 
The views expressecJ. in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's  Staff  
News  
Carolyn Amann Paul Pearson  Sports  'Systems 

Chris Cooney 
Mark Sloan Mike MurphyProduction 
Christine Stephan 
Accent 
Melissa Cusack 
GraphicsAnn Buff
Paige A. Smoron 
Michael Muldoon Melissa Cusack 
John Fischer 
Viewpoint 
Circulation Kathy Welsh 
Bill O'Rourke Mike Krause 
Ad Design 
Matt Novak Jean·Philippe Thole 
Cara Eckman 
Scoreboard 
Photography Kerry Clair Rene Ferran Mary Hueckel Maria Blohm 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through· Frida,v except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
NATIONAL 

Vail's snow is safe enough to ski on but authorities A hot air balloon floated over downtown Columbus say it's not a good idea to eat any of the snow from its office buildings up to 42 stories tall but then struck a snowmaking operations, which use water that is partly 1,069-foot broadcast tower, ripped and crashed Tuesday, from treated sewage. Water intakes for snowmaking in killing all four people aboard. The bodies of three men the Rocky Mountains resort 70 miles west of Denver are and a woman, all experienced pilots, were found in the less than 100 yards downstream from a sewage plant's balloon's crumpled gondola about 200 yards from the outflow into Gore Creek. When the creek runs low, regula­WBNS television tower, said Highway Patrol Lt. Randy tors let Vail's snowmaking crews take only the same Thatcher. People who saw the balloon said they had amount of water from the creek that the sewage plant is feared it wasn't high enough to clear the tower. ''I'd been pumping in. As a result, state officials say, one-third to watching. it from work when it came over town, and it two-thirds of Vail's manmade snow is water from the looked like it was losing (altitude)," said firefighter David sewage plant. "Would I eat that snow? Knowing what I Roe, who saw the accident from the fire department's know? Probably not," said Jay Skinner, a Colorado Divi­medical training center about a mile away. "It started sion of Wildlife official who monitors resort snowmaking climbing at a steep angle and looked like it would be OK, and its effect on streams. "I know it should be treated so I turned around to go back to my job. Then the secre­OK, but I wouldn't drink what's coming out the effiuent tary screamed, 'Oh my God! It hit the tower!' and I saw it 
pipe, either."  was going down," Roe said.  
INDIANA  MARKET UPDATE  ALMANAC  
Gov. Evan Bayh hung a red, white and blue ribbon on a door to the Statehouse in Indianapo­lis on Tuesday to show support for Hoosier sol­diers s(lrving in the Persian Gulf crisis. "Events in recent days have raised hopes that there will be a peace(ul end to this dispute," Bayh said. "Wt pray for that, but meanwhile we must not forget the sacr1fices being made by Hoosier men and women in uniform." The ribbon is a symbol of Operation Oasis, a plan for coordinating assis­tance to Indiana troops and their families. The governor said he would appoint a task force to help get packages and mail to Indiana soldiers and provide assistance to their families. Bayh also encouraged all Hoosiers to display red, white and blue ribbons in their homes and workplaces.  NYSE Index 178.42 ~ 1.16 S&P Composite 326.44 ~ 2.45 Dow Jones Industrials~ 2,586.14 ' V' 1 0.64 Precious Metals Gold i'-$3.70 to $374.20/oz.  On December 12: e In 1792: In Vienna, 22-year-old Ludwig van Beethoven received his first lesson in music composition from Franz Joseph Haydn. e In 1870: Joseph Rainey of South Carolina became the first black sworn into the U.S. House of Representa­tives. e In 1901 : The first radio signal to cross the Atlantic was picked up near St. John's, Newfoundland, by inventor Guglielmo Marconi. e In 1913: Authorities in Florence, Italy, announced that the "Mona Lisa," stolen from the Louvre Museum in Paris in 1911, had been recovered.  
Silver .. 0.7¢ to $4.050/oz.  


.. 

Wednesday, December 12, 1990 The Observer page 3 
Tribal clash in South Africa kills 37 people 
TOKOZA, South Africa (API­Factional rivalries erupted in warfare Tuesday in Tokoza, where Zulus and Xhosas slashed and shot 37 people to death and burned scores of homes before black officials held peace talks. 
In the afternoon, when the violence had died down, women piled household belongings on their heads and fled in the rain to seek shelter in a nearby township. 
Armed men stayed behind, guarding their shacks in the impoverished township and the workers' hostels that .have be­come a flashpoint of factional unrest. 
Hepresentatives of the Afrkan National Congress and the lnkatha Freedom Party, whosn supporters are at the center of the clashes, met later and said they would appeal to their followers to stop fighting. 
Past appeals from leaders of the rival groups have made lit­tle difference. The death toll in Johannesburg townships has exceeded 1,000 since August, and ANC leader Nelson Man­deJa and lnkatha leader Man­gosuthu Buthelezi have yet to sit down to talk. 
Buthelezi, citing a tight schedule and late notice, re­jected an invitation to tour Tokoza on Wednesday with Mandela and other black lead­ers. lie said he instead would visit Tokoza separately with national Law and Order Minis­ter Adriaan Vlok and said Mandela declined an invitation to join them. · 
Group shows women ways to balance work with family 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN News Writer 
"Compartmentalizing" is the key to successfully balancing studies or work with commit­ments to family or other rela­tionships. according to a dis­cussion group sponsored by the Year of Women Committee. 
At a brown bag lunch discussion held in LaFortune Tuesday, various women shared their difficulties with balancing a family and a career. One of the attende.es said that what has worked best for her has been to, "compartmentalize; do work at work, school at school, and do family when I am at home." 
A representative of the Year of Women Committee, Kathie Newman of the Physics De­partment, discussed various child care options for working mothers and the necessity of finding one with which the parents are both comfortable. Overall, each of the working mothers said that even though their lives do not leave much 
time  for  them  to  be  
themselves,  they  all  are  
leading very rich lives.  

These brown-bag lunch meetings, over the course of the semester, have discussed several topics relating to the work environment. Each discussion has had several group leaders who have generally been from the faculty, staff, or graduate students of the Colleges of Sciences of Engineering of Notre Dame or from sister departments at St. Mary's. 
These meetings were held on an experimental basis this semester. They have been well-received, Newman hopes that they will continue next semester. Sessions are open to all willing to share and participate. Future topics can be suggested at the meetings. 

$2.00 OFF any 


SPECIAL 
outer 

coat 
Cleaned and Pressed limited time only 2 Convenient Locations Near Campus 
Ironwood at South Bend Ave. Greenwood Shopping Center 272-9461 


AP Photo

Petitions piled 
Supporters gather around Cook County Board Commissioner Danny Davis as he files his nominating petitions for the office of mayor at the Chicago Board of elections Commissioners' office at City Hall Monday. Davis is running against incumbent Mayor Richard Daley in next year's election. 
Faculty Senate discusses libraries' faults 
By KATE MANUEL News Writer 
At Tuesday's meeting of the Faculty Senate, Robert Miller, director of University Libraries, said that, despite weaknesses in current library resources and services, the library has improved over the years and will continue to improve, if it receives input from faculty members and other library users. 
"The libraries are basically about delivering information to researchers. Each individual has different needs and we have to try to respond to those needs. Our mission is a compli­cated one," said Miller. 
Limitations to delivering in­formation are posed by the availability of resources, the range of information needs that individuals have, and the formiJ.t in which research is presented, he said. 
Because library users occa­sionally need resources that have been checked out be other users, the library also faces problems with confidentiality in its circulation system, he said. 
"The library profession at present has a code of ethics ­no one under any circum­


. stances has any idea of who has checked out what," he said. "We are trying to be idealistic and realistic in finding a solu­tion to conflicting needs. We'd like to ask each member of the faculty and student body if they'd want their name re­leased." While most undergraduate areas of study have reasonably good library collections, and the library does have nationally recognized collections of theol­ogy, medieval studies, and sports material, the library is especially weak in current jour­nal subscriptions, he said. He also said that the library staff is committed, but inade­quate in size to meet user needs, that the budget leaves no room for flexibility or expansion, and that library technology is reasonable, but not on the cutting edge. "We have made a lot of progress in the last ten years. We have made progress in our ability to serve; we are doing better at meeting local needs than fifteen years ago," Miller said. "We have grown in our 
"Justify my love" HAPPY 19th from the gang 
Pre-gam~ Spec1 
for all men's and women's AFTER 
GO


@ NO Basketball games No 
1 MEAL FULL PRICE 
COMPARABU MEAL HALF PRICE !
6D ...,_., ;••".,
PASTA DISHEK LAS&ONA FETTUCINE ALFREDO MANICOTTI 
=k:~" 
CACCIATORE COCKTAILS 



~ ..~t~~l~ 
BEER • WINE Dinner 4PM-t t PM BANQUET OPEN SUN & Cloaed Mon Ristorante" 
ROOII 
Please present ~~sg. 232•4244 
coupon when ordering South Of Notre D1mes' Golden Dome 
1412 South Bend Avenue 


endowments. We have new, and I hope, better copiers. We are getting materials into UNLOC more quickly, and I think we've generally made a lot of progress with UNLOC. 
Despite these improvements, Miller said he would like to see improvements in coverage for all undergraduate areas of study and for nationally recog­nized collections and the provi­sion of facilities for the use of full-text data. 
"We also hope to provide fa­cilities that are more conducive to the work of graduate stu­dents. We have increased the number of carrels but we hope to provide a place for graduate students to work together," he said. 
"We'd also like _to to extend hours, especially of branch li­braries which ani grossly inad­equate in size, environment, and facilities. We are hoping this will change in the near fu­ture," he said. 
Miller said that faculty mem­bers can help the library im­prove by sharing criticisms and praises with library personnel, by telling the library what stu­dents will need for their classes, by responding to sur­veys, by considering member­ship in the Friends of the Li­brary of Notre Dame, and by having patience as the library improves. 
@ 


page 4 The Observer Wednesday, December 1-2, 1990 
' 
Fees 
continued from page 1 
"I'm not a programming body. As Treasurer, I have no say [in how an organization spends its money], as long as it falls within the constraints of the Student Government Consti­tution." 
"I don't think the groups use the [Student Activities] Fee as effectively as they could to keep the clubs going," Hanley stated. "It's not [these] people's own money, so they're not as cau­tious on how they spend it." 
One big problem in the allo­cation process is the amount of duplication in organizations' activities, said Hanley. He pointed to Student Govern­ment's Intellectual Life and SUB's Ideas and Issues De­partments as one example where money is allocated for two organizations that are essentially the same. ':Can you tell me the difference between these two?" he said. 
Intelle'ctual Life is, according to Pasin, "very cost-intensive." He cited Intellectual Life and 
2/9/91 LSAT Prep Classes Start 1/21/91 in South Bend.· 
Sign up before the holidays! 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
Public Relations as two de­partments where much of the Student Government budget is spent. 
For the 1990-91 budget, $17,500 was allocated for Intel­lectual Life, and $32,000 was allocated for Ideas and Issues. 
Of the organizations receiving Student Activities funds, "HPC is the most effective group," according to Hanley. "Their money goes right into the dorms," he added, pointing to the Keenan Revue, St. Ed's Car­nival, and Mr. Stanford as evi­dence of the funds' use. 
Those organizations request­ing Student Activities funds must follow a budget procedure before receiving their alloca­tion. 
Each group must submit a proposal to the Budget Com­mittee, a standing committee of the Student Senate, which meets every April. This groupis headed by the Student Body Treasurer and is composed of the Student Body President, Vice President, one class presi­dent, one HPC chairperson, the SUB manager, and the Club Co­ordination Council Chairman. · 

"Each group submits a bud­get proposal, and the Budget Committee reviews it and usu­ally slashes it, " Pasin admitted. "It's a hellacious thing," he continued, citing the 20 or more hours the committee spends reviewing the numerous proposals each April. 
The Student Senate then re­views the Budget Committee's proposed budget ·and "has al­ways approved it in the past." said Pasin. 
"There's been a very signifi­cant and important change in the way clubs receive money," Hanley said, referring to the newly organized Club Coordination Council. This group reviews each club's budget proposal, and then turns its recommendations for all the clubs over to the Budget Committee. 
"The Club Coordination Coun­cil is a big step towards im­proving the budgeting process. But it's still a tough process," Hanley said, referring to the 

Hey Carra! Wake up ; Happy Belated21st Birthday Love Tim 
P.S. Sorry its late. . , 
e?lie1S711t~S 1/1'D&tJS 11t ~"7t»?7U1t& 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12 • FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14 (on big screen TV in Main Lounge) 
WEDNESDAY: ''IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE'' "ERNEST SAVES CHRISTMAS" 
THURSDAY: "ERNEST SAVES CHRISTMAS" "A CHRISTMAS STORY" 
FRIDAY: "CHRISTMAS STORY" "IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE" 
Movies start at 7:00 p.m. 
FREE HOT CHOCOLATE AND COOKIES! 
• 


IF!\travelmore 
Budget Committee's larger re­view of the individual propos­als. "There are a lot of person­alities involved. People not only look out for themselves, but they also attack others." 
"When [everyone else's bud­get] is on the firing line, it's 'slash, slash, slash,' but when it comes time for their own bud­get to be proposed, it's 'we're down to the bare minimum.'" 
Hanley stressed that the bud­geting is "n-ot an arbitrary pro­cess," and is not simply a con­tinuation from last year's bud­get. 
All of the $410,000 has not yet bee·n allocated this year. A sum of $12,000 has been set aside in a contingency fund for unanticipated expenses, said Hanley. 
According to Hanley, there was a surplus of $40,000 of Student Activities funds left over at the end of last year's Student Government adminis­tration. 
"All the money left over goes into an outside account that earns interest," said Pasin. "This is called the 'carry for­ward fund' and it is used for capital expenditures." 
Pasin cited the new Notre Dame Video Store as one ex­ample of a capital expenditure which used the carry forward funds, as well as purchasing vans _for the Center for Social Concerns, "which all clubs can use." 
Pasin stressed the fact that no Student Activities funds are being used for the Student Gov­ernment lecture series. "This is strictly corporate-sponsored," ht;l explained, noting that the average cost for each lecture speaker is around $8,000, plus travel and lodging expenses. 
. 

9{.f£'W~'s f£'l)E 
C f£ L f£ tB 9?_.9l rrI 0 9£ 



*Lounge opens at si.:{ o 'dod( 
* P'l{/:M'E 1?]'13 ffJ!'1{'1{'£1( · served at eigfit o'docf.:._ *Live entertainment ana da.ncing 
*:Midnigfit 'J./S,w .Years toast ana party favors 
*Continental'Breakfast 6egins at one o'cCocf.:._ 
only $35/person -call now for your reservation 1345 N. Ironwood Drive, South Bend 289-P 0 L 0 
God gives each persononelifetime. What are you doingwithyours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: · 
Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
~Carlson Travel Network 
A T T E N T I 0 N FA C U L T Y, S T A F F, S T U D E N T· S We are moving our present office feom LaFortune to 1725 South Bend Avenue (Next to Frank's Red Hots) beginning January 21, 1991. PLEASE CALL 284.-2051 OR 1.-800..232.-2681 
WATCH FOR OUR GRAND OPENING DRAWING 
Wednesday, December 12, 1990 
car wreck on highway in Tennessee kills 15 
CALHOUN, Tenn. (AP) -1\vo chain reaction crashes in dense fog on a highway in southeast­ern tennessee killed 15 people Tuesday, injured more than 50 and left the roadway looking like a war zone. · 
A morning fog covered Inter­state 75 over the Hiwassee Hiver, about 40 miles north of Chattanooga, when the 75­vehicle pileup began about 9:30 a.m., said Cecil Whaley, direc­tor of the Tennessee Emergency Management Ag1mcy. 
People involved in the acci­d!mt, which covnred more than a mile of the intersJ.ate, de­scribed hearing booms in the fog as dozens of tractor-trailers collided with each other and with cars. 
Traveling salesman Ralph Fisher of Cleveland, Tenn .. was headed north when he hit the fog patch. lie said he noticed traffic slowing down so he pulled to the roadside. 
"After that I started hearing bangs and booms from every­where. Immediately after that there was a truck on fire from across the road. We stared hearing them banging and booming from over there. Then all of a sudden you started hearing them from every­where," said Fisher, 43. 
Whaley confirmed 15 dead, but said the number could rise as crews searched the burned shells of vehicles. In some cases, only nameplates distin­guished the wreckage of a car smashed into the side of a truck. 
"This is one of the worst ac­cidents that anyone can re­member happening in Ten­nessee in terms of the number of vehicles and fatalities in­volved," said Whaley, who fol­lowed rescue efforts from his Nashville office. 
Names of the victims would not be immediately released because some of the bodies were burned beyond recognition, Whaley said. 
Authorities believe an initial accident occurred in the south­bound lane, and cars jumping the median or people rubber­necking to see the southbound crash may have caused the sec­ond pileup in the northbound lane. 
From there, authorities say it was a ghastly chain reaction. 
Russell Newman, eastern dis­trict regional director of the Tennessee Emergency Medical Agency, says no one is really sure what happened. 

1 n e name o persona protection," a mass fraud is being made against the public, especially those who need it 1 the most-th~ elderly, females and others trusting in the effectiveness of the Tear gas containers they carry around. 1 Tear gas IS manufactured u~der .two formulas: (CS) and (CN). The most widely available is CS (Paralyzer, Sabre, I ~ap St~n, Pro·Tector, etc.) and IS beeng touted as the "best" when in fact, it is not. The chief problem with (CS) tear ga I IS that It takes about 24 seconds to Immobilize an attacker··if you are lucky enough to hit the attacker in the eyes. By I contrast, (CN) formula tear gas incapacitates the assailant within 2 to 5 seconds from a "hit" anywhere in the chest I area. I f
1 NOW, or th~ first time, Curb is being offered to the public (at a remarkably low price). Curb's (CN) effective 1 0 to 1 15 foot range w1ll allow you to get to them before they get to you. Curb is the most potent of any tear gas weapon, 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14 5:00-6:30 PM JACC ICE RINK 
REFRESHMENTS A VISIT FROM SANTA CLAUS FUN FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY FREE SKATE RENTALS WHILE THEY LAST EVENT FREE-OF CHARGE 
1 
I PROTECT YOURSELF with
I 1 th f" 1 • 
The Observer 


Last chance to sign up for team tryouts!! Meeting Thursday Dec. 13th Spm·rm 127 Nieuwland Science 
tryouts held lues Jan 15th-cost $30 includes: *transportation to and from the hill *lift tickets *race fees *banquet afterwards1 where team is announced more details at the mee!ing 
11CURB" (CN) FORMULA... 
: 1/10% more potent than MACE and,·a lot less expensive (also small enough to carry while jogging.) .I INSTRUCTIONS I
1
1 1.) Fill out shipping instructions and use your str-t address for U.P.S. delivery. Your order I 1 will be shipped within 48 hours or leu. · I 
• 1 2.) Cost for C·20 Tear gas unit is $9.50 each. Cost for C-20 Holster/Key ring is $6.29 I 1 each. I 1 3.) Make payments to sCLOSSON'S MARKETING CO. Cashiers check, money order, or by I 1 check (personal checks must clear before shipping). Add $2.00 for insurance and I 1 shipping on C·20 unit. I I 4.) Purchase Agreemenh I certify I am an adult of at least 18. (PLEASE PRINT) I
1 Name_______________ I 1 St. Address___________ I 1 City_______ I I State & Zip_____ I I I
1 P.O. BOX 11477 I 1 -•ures 4 3/4H x 1" SOUTH BEND, IN 46634 I 
2
1....._d_•_0 s~~_ot_•____...;::C:.:L:.;:O:..::S::.::S::..::O=.:..::N=-':.S..:.M.:.::::A~R~K~E:..!T~IN~G~C~O~·~....!:.P!!:Ho~N!!E~(2~1~9)!...!2:!89!:-~a7~6~s_ __.1 : 
• 
page 5 

Some U.S. citizens will stay in Iraq 
WASHINGTON (AP) -More than 500 Americans, a majority of them children, will remain in Kuwait and Iraq after this week's evacuation flights, although the number who are doing so voluntarily is unclear, the State Department said Tuesday. 
Spokesman Richard Boucher said some families with one_or more Americans are staying because they have roots in Iraq or Kuwait. In other cases, the non-American head of house­hold has been un.able to obtain permission from Iraqi authori­ties to leave. . 
Just how many there are in each category could not be de­termined. 
The evacuation of Americans appeared all but over Tuesday, as only eight boarded a gov­ernment-chartered Boeing 707 in Baghdad, a department offi­cial said. When the same plane had left Kuwait en route to Baghdad, there were no Ameri­cans aboard. 
With the exception of three Americans who have had visa · problems, Boucher said, all 
I I
1
I I 1 
I I I I 
I
I 
1 

Americans who wish to leave Iraq and Kuwait apparently have left, so far as is known. 
On the chance that some Americans appear who have not yet made their presence known to U.S. officials, an ad­ditional charter flight is planned for Thursday. White House spokesman "Marlin Fitzwater said that flight is likely to be the last. There are five U.S. diplomats working at the embassy in Kuwait and all will be brought home soon, but it has not yet been decided whether they will be aboard the Thursday flight. 
The three other Americans who have been left behind had been among those used by Iraqi authorities as human shields to deter a potential U.S. military strike, Boucher said. 
He said that as many as 510 Americans will remain in Kuwait and Iraq permanently." That is more than half the number who were in the two countries when President Sad­dam Hussein announced last week that all foreign hostages were free to go home. 
"As of today, we believe that as many as 310 Americans have chosen to stay in Kuwait," 
Boucher said. "This includes 60 
women, 215 children, and 35 
males with dual Kuwaiti-Amer­ican citizenship. 
GENUINE BUFFALO JERKY 

*GREAT* STOCKING STUf.FERS
*EXCELLENT * 
OMNGEBOWL SNACKS 

DELICIOUS LESS CHOLESTEROL ItiORE PROTEIN 
4 PIECE SAMPLE-$5.00 20 PIECES-$22.50 40 PIECES-$39.00 
Send Check or Money Order To: 
BUFFALO TRADERS P.O. Box 780522 Wichita, Kansas 67278 
page 6 • The Observer Wednesday, December 12, 1990 
• 
Invite a senior who aced the course over for pizza. (This is known as "Pizza Gratia Passa" or Pizza for the Sake 
·--­
of Passing.) 
. 

Pepperoni slices make good p~ge markers. 
Economics is easier ifyou've got a coupon. 
To reduce stress, kick back
• 

with a Domino's Pizza 
Coca-Cola~ 
Sunday Double : Early Week Special : T~o Large Piz.zas
Feature : , wtth one topptng. 
I

1 1
$599 $499
One Large Original Pizza
I Two Small Original l with one topping for $4.99. I Pizzas with the topping Available Monda:y and
1

l of your choice for Tuesday only. 1
1 l
:all VaJ.alpar1JdpaUngs1Dresg;;r. NoiYaldwtlhanyOIIJerolfe<s CuskiiiiOfpays l laB'v.-atpartiopatingskJresg;;r. Not"'""'~any-offe~ Custome<pays 
I IS) · =-~~~oo !l.'J.:=:~~=\:.~.~= I 1!211 =-=~..~oo~==~.~~ I 
L __~~ _________c~~~~~~-L _ ~~ ~ _________~~~~~ _ _l 
Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 289-0033 816 Portage Ave.
ls3sSouthBendAve. 
C1990 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 


Wednesday, December 12, 1990 
It's final--Ivana Trump divorces The Donald 
the divorce was approved by 
NEW YOHK (AP) -A tearful state Judge Phyllis Gangel-Ja­Ivana Trump was divorced cob. Tuesday from her millionaire While Mrs. Trump . said husband. Donald, whose "cruel through her attorney she would and inhuman treatment" was have no further comment on cited for the end of their 12-the matter, her ex-husband is­year marriage. sued a statement of good will. 
But the dissolution of the marriage left unresolved ex­"I wish Ivana the best. I have actly who will get what from no doubt that she will do very the troubled Trump empire and well in the years to come," said whether the couple's marital Trump. agreement giving Donald the But whether Mrs. Trump will lion's share will hold. do it with a reported $25 mil­
"There are two parts to any lion pre-nuptial agreement or marriage: OrHJ, 'Are we mar­with much more remains to be ried?' And two, 'Do I owe you seen. The judge said all other any money?' Today we've money matters such as child dearod the way for the real is­support, equitable distribution 
The Observer/Ken Osgood

sue: division of property," said of property and the validity of Trump's lawyer, Jay Goldberg. any ...pre-and ·post-marital Music man 
-
Mrs. Trump, assisted by at­agreement will be decided at 
Jim Aldendifa plays the guitar at a recent prayer meeting in the log chapel. Other religious events on
torney Michael Kennedy, left an April 11 trial, unless they 
campus include a Spanish mass at Sacred Heart and an Advent penance service in St. Ed's Hall today. 
the courthouse in tears after are otherwise resolved. 

Hammer 
continued from page 1 
forge Soviet-American rela­tions. 
"Mr. Hammer was associated with one of the most remark· able pages of our relationship," Gorbachev said. "He met with Lenin and was very close in many ways to the Soviet Union, and to Russia." , 
Hammer, whose father~ helped found the American Communist Party, beqtme a millionaire by age 23 and by most estimates died a billionaire. 
Hammer bought the then-ail­ing Occidental for $100,000 in • 1957 as a tax shelter . 
• •
•
•

llu.tPffa;m Pat<-ft • •• 
• •
•
• 


• 
... 
•
•

P~(Jietf~(J~ •• 
• 

• 
HILOSOPHER'S 
•
•


• 
'( 
• 
• 




[}eee41rbett-12, 1990 
, 

2,·30-4.·00/llf • llaJifllfW fVot,e [}aJife 8ooifto!"e • 2/(rlrlool" 
I 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, December 12, 1990

page 8 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Usa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson 
Art Director ........ ~ ........ Michael Muldoon· 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent
I ­
Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
-

Pro-life advocate stoops to life swapping 

Dear Editor: 
I find going to an abortion debate one of the most vivid reminders these days of human fallibility. Not only can we not agree on the issue, but many refuse to admit absolute 
'knowledge of some of the facts, 
such as when human life truly 
begins. 
Yet there must remain some absolutes in our society. We must, for example, if we are to have society at all, believe in such· causes as human preser­vation. The abortion issue, however,· finds us imposing. human judgements over this very instinct in the interest of convenience and facility. 
The abortion debate that took place on Nov. 29 was clouded by hypocrisy as each contender asserted or negated this abso­lute to meet his own ends. Not only did hypocrisy color the views of Ms. Weddington, the lawyer whose victory in Roe v. Wade still plagues our society, but a harshly contradictory statement made by Mr. Scheidler, the executive director of the Pro-Life Action League, served to blight his otherwise forceful argument. 
Mr. Scheidler compromised his pro-life position when he struck a bargain with society that he would stop supporting a death penalty if abortion were outlawed. Is the pro-life movement now to str>op so low as to employ the pro-choice technique of swapping life for life, of deciding which human being's right should be dis­pensed with to acpieve their own ends? It is· bargaining that advocates of choice actually engage in, weighing the rights of the child against tbose of the mother, or figuring whether the probable quality of the child's life renders it worthwhile, as if the life of a human being should be subject to our eco­nomic laws of supply and de­mand or profit-expenditure. 
For Mr. Scheidler to barter human life, deciding which is desirable and which disposable, and for him to support the death penalty, is for him to say his objections to abortion are not based on the right to life inherent in being human, but on some other kind of subjected decision. Quality or worthiness, 

Brochure needs group information 
Dear Editor: 
The Faculty/Student Committee on Women is organizing the composition and distribution of both a brochure describing the various women's groups on campus and a newsletter serving as a regular form of communication among these groups. We have already contacted many different organizations and committees for information yet realize that we may have neglected various groups. We encourage any of these groups within the Notre Dame community that would 
DOONESBURY 
like to be part of our endeavor and have been overlooked to contact Sr. Kathleen Cannon in the Provost's Office by Friday, Dec. 14. 
We believe that this attempt at networking will help to achieve the work of our committee as well as that of many others dedicated to similar efforts. 
Kristen Stamile Faculty/Student Committee on Women Dec. 6, 1990 

HeY, Yq MY OtP tAPY 
M&RRY OIRJ5TMA5, LJJV&R.

S13NT Me ONe OF 
YOU KNOWaJHATl'M IMAG!N­

7HO$ TAL-I<INGOIR6T­
IN6 RiGHTNOW'? I'M

MA'3CARJJS, TOO! 
IMAGINING YOU'!</3 .., 

perhaps? How dare he claim the right to decide if another human being has the right to live and then attack Ms. Weddington for subjecting hu­mans to th6Se same decisions of her own! 
As pro.choice orators usually are, Ms. Weddington was well­
·versed in all the typical examples of advantageous exchanges of human beings: child for mother, child for child, helpless for powerful. For instance, she was quite concerned about the parents of a large family who might desire to eradicate any "extra" little blessings in order to better love and provide for the children they already have. She adamantly complained that many people worry a great deal about human life before birth, but fail to care for human life in the rest of society. She pleaded for expressions of the worth of human life through care of children and adults already visible in society rather than concentration on the lives of those unborn. 
Better living conditions for the less fortunate of our society, increased love and attention to nurture our growing children, and overall concern and respect for the worth of human life are wonderful pursuits: not our choices, but rather things we must always strive for by laws of self-preservation and human decency. But how can wrenching the unborn baby. from her womb enable a mother to better love her children? How can a society that supports the murder of its most innocent and vulnerable foster concern for the welfare of its dependents and nurture its young? 
How can the worth of human life be respected when that life is being subjected to human judgements and technological capabilities cannot claim con­trol. Respect for the human right to live must begin at the beginning of life and not end until the last breath is drawn. Overstepping this boundary negates the absolute, leaving each and everyone of us at the mercy of the masses. 
Treven Santicola Badin Hall Dec. 5, 1990 

Families Suffer from soldiers' brutality 
Dear Editor: 
My neighbors in Kuwait were living comfortably. They had a nice home, nice cars; they were a nice family. On the ninth day of the invasion, Iraqi soldiers broke into their house. They were stealing cars and other valuables and this house looked nice. 
When the soldiers came in, the family was sitting at supper: two parents and four teen-aged daughters. The soldiers tied up and gagged the man; he was about fifty. He was a man of peace. He did not protest. 
The soldiers packed every­thing they could in the family's cars. The woman and her daughters were crying. They said to the woman, "Choose your favorite daughters: you keep two and the conquerors take two!" She fell to her knees and begged them not to take her girls. "These are my ba­bies," she said. "They are like your sisters. You are like my sons." She begged and begged and begged. 
They laughed. "Choose two or we will take all four," they said. She kissed their boots and begged them not to in the name of everything they believed in. "We are all leaving," they warned. She chose to save her two youngest daughters. But they did not leave. "You took too long," they said. "We are going to punish you." 
They raped her two youngest daughters in front of her eyes. They took turns. When they were done, they took the other two daughters with them. After four and a half weeks of searching, she found her daughters dead. They had been repeatedly raped and beaten.... 
Talal Gharabally Off-Campus · Dec. 5, 1990 

Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. If you have something to say, bring your written thoughts to the Observer offices located on the third floor of LaFortune, or send them to: Viewpoint, P.O. 
Box a, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556.  .  
GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE.OF THE DAY  
'There are no principles, no methods. Everything comes down to luck and happenstance. Nobody knows just when~ they stand.'  
Ryszard Kapuscinski  

• 
Accent 
Wednesday, December 12, 1990 

The other day as I was dig­ging through my desk I came upon Joe Moody's "translation" of Hotel California by the Eagles. .Joe pointed out that the song was a reference to the satanic church. I, being the journalist that I am, decided to ask around for other people's opinions. 
People had no trouble believ­ing that this song and many others were really evil songs with references to satanism, death and drug use. Some of the other songs with these drug references people mentioned were not Metallica or Iron Maiden but Led Zeppeli·n's "Stairway to Heaven" and Peter, Pauf. and Mary'& "Puff the Magic Dragon." 
Now I know I am only a freshman (as some people pointed out oh-so-tastefully re­cently) but I think I have found another song to add to the list. 
I know my discovery might shock a few people, but after dis<;.ussing hidden messages with these mental giants, I don't know how I could have ever been so blind. These peo­ple are so right. 
Now when I listen to Led Zeppelin and Pink Floyd these satanic death lyrics become glaringly obvious. Granted, .Jimmy Page and Roger Waters are geniuses at disguising t~eir true message, but individuals like Joe Moody have shoWn me th& light. I have since disposed of all my records except for ".John Denver and the Muppets' Christmas." 
Getting to my new discovery 

1. 
Lempnheads -Lovey 

2. 
Goo Goo Dolls -Hold Me Up 


s! Beware of e satanic carols 
Michael Snyder Duke On Stuff 

-the other night at , a "graceful" Christmas SYR, I heard the song that turned my life around. I was standing there, between the bed and my curly straws when the lyrics h.it me square across the face. It was so obvious, so apparent. I couldn't understand why I hadn't figured it out before. It was if my entire had been cleansed and my life had a new meaning. "Jingle Bells" is straight from Hell! 
Dashing through the snow ... 
The word dashing indicates the individual is out of control because of the break-neck speed they are racing at. This racing is obviously caused by this "snow", which is a common · term for cocaine. This is an ex­plicit invitation for you and me to join the race by doing drugs. 
In a one horse open sleigh ... 
A one horse sleigh indicates to the listener that there is only one available and open path to true enjoyment of life. This line, along with the next two lines, shows the author's evil intent. · 
Over the fields we go ... 
The word "over" indicates the people are flyin'g over a field by some supernatural force, probably the devil's work. The word "we" tells the listener to bring along their friends to join in these evil do­ings. 
\ 
This is an obvious and easy line to decipher. This laughing is obviously referring to "snow" or cocaine. The words "the way" again tell the listener that his or her path is already cho­sen and all they can do is join by drug induced hallucinations. 
Ha Ha Ha ... 
·This line is nothing more than screams of ecstasy from fornication. 
Bells on bobtail ring ... 
These bells are obviously re­ferring to John Dohne's quote "Do not ask for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee." This quote concerns the good ole' days when the dead were col­lected right at your front doorstep. One knew when the undertaker was coming by the bells he would ring. 
Making spirits bright ... 
This line tells one that the only truly happy or "bright" inc dividuals are the "spirits", which are, of course, the dead. The author is practically beg­ging us to walk among the dead. Another possible inter­pretation is that the "spirits" are alcohol in the form of punch which is a violation of DuLac. 
Oh what fun it is to ride and sing a sleighing song tonight ... 
This line tells the listener "Hey, come along. Everybody's doing it. You can quit any time. It's just one." The author uses the bandwagon effect to con­vince the reader to join in on this song of death and drug abuse. 
It is apparent to me exactly what the author's intent was in writing this song. It is an open invitation for all of us to enter the dark and evil world of drugs and death. Not only are the lyrics morally corrupt, but when I played the song back­wards, I heard subliminal mes­sages. . 
This technique, known as backmasking, plays upon the subconscious mind which picks up the message that the con­scious mind can not. When one plays the chorus backward, if one tistens very carefully, one can hear "Women and Football Don't Mix." I don't have to tell anyone how I feel about that. (Nor do I want to hear what you think about that anymore.) 
Needless to say, I \VaS of­fended. This song is evil for­ward and backward and should be taken off records every­where. Every time a child hears this song, they have to fight off the corrupt and rude messages the song contains. 
I would just like to thank those individuals responsible for my awakening. I am mak­ing a personal vow to ban "Jingle Bells" forever. I don't know how I could have ever been so blind when the lyrics are so blatant. I'm not sure how successful my crusade will be, but this will put a new per­spective on Christmas classics like ''I'm Dreaming of a White Christmas," (another reference to drugs) and "Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer." (Perhaps Rudolph has been using the nose candy in his stocking!) 
A farewell to Rome 
By EliZABETH WHOLIHAN 
Accent Writer · 
Christmas vacation is quickly approac;hing. For those of us who are not staying with the 
Saint Mary's program for a full year, this vacation is a fabulous 
3. Thee Head Coats -Heavens to Mergatroid, 
Even ... 
opportunity for three whole weeks of tr:;avel in Europe. One
4. Helmet -Strap It On 
popular choice will bring to­gether Notre Dame and Saint
5. Pegboy -Three Chord Monte 
Mary's student with a celebra­tion in Austria. Those of us who
6. Phranc -Folksinger 
·are returning to the States before Christmas are hurrying to squeeze in a few more 
7. Pylon-Chain 
8. Fa.:;tbacks -Very Powerful Motor excursions to the parts of Italy we just should not miss. 
9. Senator Flux -Criminal Special 
However, before we lose con­tact with our home campuses
10. rogues -Hell's Ditch 
at Christmas break, there are just a few more things we would like to share with you. If you have thought about study­ing in Rome but never got around to applying, it it not too late. Prove something to your­self and get an application. Everyone should experience a semester or year abroad if pos­sible. 
Some of the experiences were silly and pretty unimport!nt. Nevertheless, they have made an impression and will not be forgotten. For instance, many of us will never forget seeing Ma and Pa Kettle or "The Bold and the Beautiful" on television in Italian. Italian MTV must be experienced and should not be explained. 
Our group will never forget our self-appointed "song advi­sor," Matteo, who always found an appropriate song to fit an occasion. "Happy Birthday" and the theme song to "The Jetsons" were two of the easier tunes, but it. was a challenge to remember the words to "The Mary Tyler Moore Show." 
"If you have thought about studying in Rome, ... prove something to yourself and get an.application." 
We will always credit Dave for helping us study our art history. His imitative poses were more interesting and use­ful than the book alone. All of these things are little experi­ences that are noticed by an in­dividual either alone or as part of a group. Some may be silly, but they will not be forgotten. 
This is the last article for the semester from the students in Rome. Although I am returning to Notre Dame next semester, perhaps someone will keep the home campuses aware of the existence of the students abroad. Personally, I want to thank the other students in Rome for their support-and yes, they will see this article-because fnany of my ideas were based on their words and actions. 
To any students who have considered studying abroad for a semester or a year, I hope the articles have given you an idea of some of the more personal aspects of the experience. Nothing is perfect. You will not be pleased with every aspect of the program, but that is a per­sonal opinion. It really is an opportunity to change ( I know I did even though I laughed when people told me the same thing.) 
It is a fantastic risk to take. A person really steps away form the security of friendships and family, even more so than freshman year. Most impor­tantly, the whole trip is what you want it to be and what you make of it. 

-

• 
cPa~g~e~1~0~------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r______________________________W~e~d~ne~s~d=a~y~,December12, 1990 
c. 
Bucks down Bulls, Robinson unplugs Pistons 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Jay Humphries scored 21 points and the Milwaukee Bucks went on a 24-10 tear in the third quarter to beat the Chicago Bulls 99-87 Tuesday night, set­ting set a club record with an 11-0 start at home. 
Frank Brickowski added a season-high 19 points, Alvin Robertson 16 and Jack Sikma 15 as the Bucks took over first place in the Central Division with a 15-6 record. Milwaukee was 10-0 at home to start the 1984-85 season. 
Chicago, which had beaten the Bucks 18 of 21 times the last three seasons including the playoffs last season, was led by Michael Jordan with 31 points. Scottie Pippen added 14 points. 
Milwaukee used a 13-2 surge early in the third quarter -the only spurt by either team up to that point-to open u~ a 66-60 lead. Robertson had 6 points and Sikma 5 in the spurt. 
Jordan scored twice for the Bulls to cut it back to 2 points, but the Bucks went on an 11-1 surge behind 5 points from Brickowski to lead 77-65 enter­ing the fourth quarter. 
Jordan hit a three-point play with 3:15 left to make it 87-82. But Sikma hit a bank shot and Robertson made two free throws with 2:43 to go, putting Milwaukee up 9 points. 
Spurs 95, Pistons 86 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. David Robinson had 27 points and 16 rebounds as the San Antonio Spurs handed the De­troit Pistons their first home loss of the season, 95-86 Tues­day night. 
The Pistons, looking tired after a 1-4 trip to the West Coast, are 8-1 at Tha Palace. It was only their second loss in 14 games in which they have held opponents under 100 points. 

Joe Dumars led the Pistons, who missed 11 of 35 free throws, with 19 points. Isiah Thomas added 16 points and John Salley 15. Rod Stickland added 16 points for the Spurs and Sean Elliott 13. 
The Pistons, who didn't make a basket until 4:03 into the game, led by 1 point twice in the first quarter, the last at 19­18 on a basket by Salley with 
2:06 remaining. 

But Elliott had 5 of his 7 first­quarter points as the Spurs outscored Detroit 8-3 the rest of the period. 
With Robinson scoring 7 of his 9 second-quarter points, the Spurs led· 48-39 with 2:49 left in the period. But Detroit outscored San Antonio 8-2 the rest of the way to cut the deficit to 3 points at halftime. 
San Antonio's Terry Cum­mings had a hyper-extended left knee and left the game late in the half after scoring seven points. 
76ers 119, Magic 114 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Hersey Hawkins made five of six 3­point shots to match Dennis Scott in a long-distance shoot­ing duel and Rick Mahorn delivered a key tfiree-point play 
Now Leasing Lafayette Square Townhomes 4 & 5 bedroom apts.availabl Less th111 1Mne from Notre Dome Features Include: -Security Systems-Central Air -Wosher &Dryer -Good Neighborhood -Dishwashers Call 232·8256 
with 1:21 to go Tuesday night, leading the Philadelphia 76ers to a 119-114 victory over the Orlando Magic. 
Charles Barkley led Philadel­phia with 28 points and Hawkins had 27 as the 76ers extended their winning streak to four games. Orlando lost for the 1Oth time in 12 outings de­spite Scott's career-high 29 points. 
For My Name After Break!! 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, 1ncluding spaces. 
If you videotaped the MF-Thanks to you and your family Hello, Joseph Patrick Klein 
, 
Tenn or USC games, Single 2-Room Apt. ••• TARA MCDONALD ••• for dinner. I won't put gum behind NOTICES could you give me a call?? -Lisa $125 w!util. my ear if you won't pretend you're x4842 15 min. walk from Campus HAPPY BIRTHDAY to you on calling from Miami. Bob x3234 J,antJary 7. KM -Flo TYPING AVAILABLE 
•••• CINCINNATI 
287-4082 A quaint studio in lovely old ••• TARA MCDONALD IRISH MUSIC and DANCING I desparately need a ride to mansion 1/2 mile from campus with Seamaisin TYPING term Cincinnati on the'friday of final 225 plus deposit please call AVOID THE RUSH ! (Perplexed? Say, Hay Machine) 
papers/reports/letters/resumes. week, and will certainly help with 2888595 AVOID THE LINES ! Thursday, Dec. 13th Pick up and delivery available. gas $. Please call Kristen CLUB23 277-5134 McDonald at x2927. WANTED: FEMALE · PLACE YOUR CHRISTMAS 
Cathy. UPPERCLASSMAN TO SHARE GREETING CLASSIFIEDS Chauvinistic, egotistical, CINCINNATI •••• VERY NICE FAMILY-OWNED SOON. THE LAST ISSUE OF obnoxious former Scholasti6 writer 
INTERESTED IN PURE, CLEAN HOME IN SECURE THE OBSERVER IS FRIDAY, looking for gainful emplyment. Call DRINKING WATER IN YOUR I need a ride to Philly area NEIGHBORHOOD. 7 MINS. DEC. t4. lim at 1873. OWN for x-mas break. Please II!! FROM CAMPUS. $260/MO. DO IT EARLY AND GET IT DONE ROOM HERE AT ND? FOR INFO Call Kathy x4238 UTILITIES INCL. 234-5316 OR BEFORE FINALS !II CALLx1758. 234-7587. Laura-HEY HISTORY GEEK!! 
BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR I MAY OWE YOU 3 BEERS, BUT TYPING -Students! Finals & Responsible Professional Seeking CLOSE TO CAMPUS TWO NEXT SEMESTER FOR 2 YR. AT LEAST I AM COOL AND term papers have you stressed Housesitting Opponunity. 3 BEDROOM HOMES WITH OLD. DON'T BROWN NOSE DON-o 
WE HAVE IT ALL! 

out?ll Relax. Here's Available Jan-Aug '91. Call WASHER AND DRYER M-W-F or T-TH or M-F -kristin typing help. Early or last minute. Kathleen, 234-0669. 232-3616 8 AM-NOON OR 1 PM. 
ANGELS'AMV'ATIIC DOLLS 

$ Negotiable. Phone WALKING DISTANCE. 
BEARS'BUNNIES 

234-4204. Ask for Maria or FEMALE RbMMATE NEEDED 234-8743. ATIENTION JUNIORS: 
BASKETS'BAGS'BLANKETS

leave message. FOR Stop by Career and Placement 
FOR RENT 
I 
CARDS'CANDlES'

CAMPUS VIEW APT. CALL ATIENTION JUNIORS: Services, lower-level Hesburgh CALLIGRAPHY
Typing BRIGID #2628 Library, to check the Summer Pickup & Delivery BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Stop by Career and Placement Bulletin for job opportunities. 
COFFEES' COCOAS 277-7406 219-291-7153 Services, lower-level Hesburgh 
CHRISTMAS FOR SALE Library, to check the Summer We are now collecting resumes for 
NOTES'COMPUTER PAPER $$FOR BOOKS ROOMS FOR RENT 2ND SEM. Bulletin for job opportunities. companies who are recruiting on 
COLORING BOOKS'CRAYONS Used Texts bought and sold 6-7 BDRM. HOME:INDIVIDUALS campus from Jan. 28 through Feb. 
DRIED FRUITS' DRIED Pandora's Books 233-2342 OR GROUPS. FOR TICKETS We are now collecting resumes for 8, 1991. The deadline to submit 
FLOWERS 

corner of ND ave and Howard 232-1776. FOR SALE: ROW 15,.25 yard line. companies who are recruiting on your resume is December 14. 
EGGNOG'TAFFY 

(305) 255-3432. campus from Jan. 28 through Feb. 
FARSIDE 

ATIN: PRIVATE ROOM FOR GRAD 8, 1991. The deadline to submit Jeanne, 
CARDS' BOOKS'MUGS

All women interested in STUDENT, UTILITIES, $200/MO. your resume is December 14. I'm excited about our little holiday 
GREAT GIFTS'GOURMET

joining LADIES OF COLUMBUS­SHARE KITCHEN & COMMON ORANGE BOWL TIX on Friday. i warn you: I'm bringing HEAVENLY HANDCRAFTS
Please attend meeting WED ROOMS WITH FIVE OTHERS. 317-879-8497 RIDE NEEDED: baby oil. (12/12), 7PM at Knights of 232-8444 noon-6. Love, Arthur 
INCENSE'IRISH Columbus ORANGE BOWL TIX'S. 50 YD. TO: MA!Boston area P.S. Wait til Liza hears the score! 
SWEATSHIRTS LG. BEDROOM IN LG. HISTORIC LINE. (305) 891-0581. for Xmas break 
JAX'JOLLY GOOD TYME HOME DOWNTOWN. 
KEEPSAKES'KEN' AVAIL. JAN. 1. 289-4383. NON­AVAILABLE: ONE ROUND-TRIP LEAVE: Friday after 1:OOpm CONGRATULATIONS 
KALEIDOSCOPES

LOST/FOUND 
SMOKERS ONLY. AIR TICKET, CHICAGO TO Will pay 112 expense SORIN HALL VOLLEYBALL 
LOTIONS'IJ\MBS'LICORICE LONDON, 26 DEC. TO 8 JAN. 1990 NVA CHAMPIONS! 
MISTLETOE'IIIAURA'MUGS 

I lost a black "Sun Ice" ski CAMPUSVIEW APARTMENTS PHONE 233-3745. CALL: Fred@ 1650 Bryan Krayer 
NOTE CARDS'NUTS' 

jacket with fluorescent blue Mike McKinnon 
NECKLACES 

and red stripes and a blue RESERVE YOUR APT. FOR ORANGE BOWL TICKETS-good HOGS HOGS HOGS HOGS P.J. Stettin 
OH!ORNAMENTS

inner lining. If found please . NEXT YEAR. CALL 272-1441 . seats, cheap $65-total of 40 left -HOGS Mike Hudson call Phil at xt436. guaranteed delivery -303-674-Sean Goldrick 
PAULA' PILLOWS'PHOTO SKI BRECKENRIDGE 0450, mssg. HURRY. Holy Cross Hall dinner at John Mangels 
ALBUMS I 100 DOLLAR REWARD ! CONDO-sleeps 6 South on Thurs.• Dec 13. Jay Blount 
QUAINT MINI QUILTS Lost Wallet property of Eduardo 28 Dec-4 Jan 25 ORANGE BOWL TICKETS Meet on the hill at 5:00. Will Grannan 
RED RIBBONS'RDIE Bocock. Contains vital $90 a night VERY CHEAP -NOTRE DAME Go Hogs! Ill!!!!! Kevin Kramer 
SACHETS'SHAMPOOS'SOAP Documentation. Urgent! Fully Equipped SIDE Thanks to the fans-Keep 
STOCKING Please call 272-6562. No CALL NOW-Cynthia 283-1348 303-442-8946. Yo Carol-CONGRATULATIONS on Stove Toppin', Otters!! 
STUFFERS'SECRET SANTA 

Questions Asked. ON THE GENETICS! I!! 
TOYS'TINS'10 CENT CANDY 

FEMALE NEEDED TO SHARE ORANGE BOWL CLASSIC 1991 Just remember "He Real Nice" 
TRAIL MIXES 

FOUND ... brown tortoiseshell BRAND NEW CONDO AT NOTRE DAME VS. COLORADO Love your roomie Nicole*••• 
UPS'UPS' UPS 

glasses between Farley and OAKHILLI YOUR OWN 3 DAYS/2 NIGHTS OF FUN AND 
VICTORIAN

B.P. about 2 wks. ago. x-4023 BED/BATH. FREE LAUNDRY FOOTBALL IN MIAMI. ADOPTION: If you are pregnant I NEED RIDERS FOR XMAS. AND PARKING. CALL: 288-0792 DECEMBER 31 -JANUARY 2 and can't care for a child right GOING WEST ON 1-80 AS FAR 
DOLLS'ORNAMENTS'V~C 

WAX POTPOURRI'WREATHS 2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 ACCOMMODATIONS. We can pay medical expenses FALLS). CALL FARIS@ 3082 PRIME GAME TICKETS -HOTEL now, please consider adoption. AS IOWA CITY (TO CEDAR 
WANTED 
MINUTES ...NEW YEAR'S EVE and help with other needs. We FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON CELEBRATION CRUISE''' are two ND alumni who can't have KEITH­
X-TRA NEAT STUFF Earn $300 tp $500 per week 425 MONTH+DEPOSIT $599.00 PER PERSON DOUBLE children and have been happily THANKS FOR A GREAT 
.. 

Reading Books at home. Call 232-3616 OCCUPANCY. LOW AIRFARE married for 13 years and can offer WEEKEND!YOU REALLY 1 -615-4 73-7 440 Ext. B 340 AND CAR RATES. CALL NOW!! a loving home. Please call collect SURPRISED ME LAST WEEK. 
ZIP CODES AND ZONES FOR

HOUSES AVAIL. FOR 91-92 YR. LIMITED AVAILABILITLY!! 317255-8701. I GIVE YOU AN 'A' IN EFFORT. 
UPS! 

ANYBODY going towards 5-6 BDRMS. REASONABLE OASIS TICKETS AND TOURS • I "WUF" YOU TOO! 
Bloomington or Champaign, IL RATES. 232-1776. 1-800-229-4493 For sale VW tm '84 KRIS after 6:15 Fri. 12/2t? NEED ride for INFO. call255-2719 x2239 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, Need a student ticket for this ''PHILLY CLUB X-MAS BUS'' 
THE COUNTRY 

or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, furn., Wednesday's basketball game? ALL MEN'S HAIRCUTS $5 OFF. ••• Final Sign-ups• .. RIDE NEEDED: washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or Call Cheryl at 4321 MENTION THIS ADD AT Wed., 12/12 at Info Desk in 
•
HARVESTER

' ' 
288-5653 CAMPUS HAIRCRAFTERS SMC Lafortune 6-7:30 pm • 
LAFORTUNE LOWER

TO: MA!Boston area GOOD THRU 12-20-90 If bus does not fill trip will' be 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, 
for Xmas break ( PERSONALS canceled Mike 1779 • 
LEVEL 

or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, furn., MONDAY SPECIAL $95 Kevin 289-5542' 
M-F 12-5 

LEAVE: Friday after 1:OOpm washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or $10.00 OFF PERM & HAIRCUT 
hiag 
SAT. 11-2

share 1/2 expense 288-5653 COSIMO'S SHAPES & LINES 
'• 
277-1875 
239-6714

ORANGE BOWL SPECIAL Stay CALL: Fred@ 1650 (Mondays Only) John Kroepfl and Mike Richardson 
on your own private yacht for only A furnished room for Grad or are impotent, but their roommate
$28.50/pp/day.1 or 2 fern. roomates for next Sr. $150/mon. including utilities is incredibly virile. Tom Gibbons 
Special Air Fares, tool! semester in house-very cheap and laundary. Call 272-1869. NEED RIDE TO /FROM PITI FOR really likes Milli Vanilli. lim Rogers
Call Easy Sailing for details Kelly 234-5140 call by 12/21 XMAS $ JOANNE 1275 is unemployed 
1 (800)780-4001. 



-----~---­
Scoreboard
Wednesday, December 12, 1990 page 11 
NFL LEADERS 
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 
Quarierbacka 
All Com Yda TO lnt 
Kelly, Buff. 335 212 2714 23 9 
Moon, Hou. 491 310 3874 29 12 
DeBarg, K.C. 355 199 2676 20 3 
Schroeder, LA 2n 151 2290 11 9 
Marino, Mia. 433 251 2834 16 9 
Brister, Pitt. 317 183 2192 16 12 
Rushers 
All Yda Avg LG TO Butts, S.D. 243 1154 4.7 52 8 Thomas, Buff. 215 1083 5.0 tBO 9 Humphrey, Den. 235 1007 4.3 t37 5 Okoye, K.C. 228 751 3.3 32 6 Word, K.C. 139 748 5.4 !53 3 Fenner, Sea. 173 719 4.2 36 10 
Racalvara NO Yda Avg LG TO 
Reed, Buff. 63 834 13.2 t56 6 
Givins, Hou. 62 830 13.4 180 8 
Williams, Sea. 62 611 9.9 60 0 
Hill, Hou. 61 858 14.1 43 4 
Duncan, Hou. 58 681 11.7 t37 1 
Bentley, Ind. 57 551 9.7 73 1 
Scoring 
Touchdowns TO Rush Rae Ret Pta 
Allen, Raiders 11 11 0 0 66 
Fenner. Sea. 11 10 1 0 66 
Thomas, Buff. t1 9 2 0 66 
White, Hou. 11 7 4 0 66 
Brown, Cln. 9 0 9 0 54 
Brooks, Cln. 8 4 4 0 48 
Buns, S.D. 8 8 0 0 48 
Givins, Hou. 8 0 8 0 48 
Kicking 
PAT FG LG Pta Lowery, K.C. 33-33 27·30 48 114 Norwood, Bun 43·45 18-27 48 97 Stoyanovich, Mta. 29-29 20·22 53 89 Treadwell. Den. 29-31 20·26 46 89 Breech, Cln. 33·34 17-21 46 84 Leahy, Jets 22-22 20-22 47 82 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 
Quartarbackt 
All Com Yda TDint Cunningham, Ph1. 391 229 2909 26 10 Simms, Giants 301 178 2225 15 4 Montana, S.F. 470 296 3637 25 15 Everen, Rams 443 255 3296 20 13 Harbaugh, Chi. 301 176 2150 10 6 Rypten, Wash. 230 127 1549 13 7 
Rushers 
Att Yda Avg LG TD B Sanders, Det. 209 1081 5.2 145 10 Anderson. Chi. 227 910 4.0 52 10 Byner. Wash. 216 882 4.1 22 5 Johnson, Phoe. 191 823 4.3 41 4 Cunmngham, Pht 106 772 7.3 !52 4 E.Smilh, Dall 187 739 4.0 148 7 Gary, Rams 179 702 3.9 48 13 Anderson, Gtants 200 695 3.5 28 10 Sherman. Phi. 149 634 4.3 36 
Recelvera 
NO Yda Avg LG TD Rice. S.F. 82 1238 15.1 t64 11 Rtson. All 71 1059 14.9 t75 10 Byars. Phil 71 732 10.3 54 2 Clark, Wash. 68 1012 14.9 47 7 Ellard. Rams 62 1021 16.5 !50 4 Sharpe, G.B 59 992 16 8 176 5 
Scoring Touchdowns 
TD Rush Rec Ret Pta Gary, Rams 14 13 1 0 84 Anderson. Chi 13 10 3 0 78 
B. Sanders, Det. 13 10 3 0 78 Rice. S.F. 11 0 11 0 66 Anderson, Giants 10 10 0 0 60 Rison, All 10 0 10 0 60 
A. Carter, Mtnn. 8 0 8 0 48 
Kicking 
PAT FG LG Pta Butler, Chi. 29-30 23·32 52 98 Cofer. S.F. 34·34 19·29 56 91 Ruzek. Phil. 37·39 18-23 53 91 Lohmiller. Wash. 35-35 18-27 55 89 Davts, Atl. 34·34 18·26 53 88 Jacka, G.B. 25·26 20-24 53 85 Christie, T.B. 21-21 19·22 78
~ 
TOP 25 BASKETBALL 
How the AP top 25 teams fared Tuesday: 
1. 
UNLV (2-0) did not play. Next: vs. No. 21 Michigan State at the Palace. Auburn Hills, Mich., Saturday. 

2. 
Arkansas (8-1) beat South Alabama 101·91. Next: at Oregon, Saturday, Dec. 22. 

3. 
Syracuse (7-0) did not play. Next: vs. Canislus, Wednesday. 

4. 
Arizona (7-1) did not play. Next: vs. Providence, Sunday, Dec. 23. 

5. 
Georgetown (5-0) did not play. Next: vs. St. Leo, Wednesday. 

6. 
UCLA (6-0) did not play. Next: at DePaul, Saturday. 

7. 
Indiana (7-1) did not play. Next: vs. Western Michigan, Saturday. 


B. Ohio State (4-0) did not play. Next: vs. Wright State, Wednesday. 
9. 
North Carolina (5-1) did not play. Next: vs. No. 20 Alabama, Saturday. 

10. 
Duke (6-2) did not play. Next: at Harvard, Wednesday, Dec. 19. 

11. 
Georgia (5-1) lost to Vanderbilt 75-7 4 in overtime. Next: at Miami, Fla., Friday. 

12. 
LSU (4-1) did not play. Next: vs. Arkansas State, Tuesday, Dec. 18. 

13. 
Oklahoma (7 -1) did not play. Next: vs. Loyola Marymount, Saturday. 

14. 
St. John's (7-0) beat Brooklyn College 57·47. Next: vs. Howard University, Saturday. 

15. 
Pittsburgh (6-1) did not play. Next: vs. Robert Morris, Saturday. 

16. 
Connecticut (4-1) did not play. Next: vs. New Hampshire, Wednesday. 

17. 
South Carolina (6-1) did not play. Next: vs. Furman, Wednesday. 

18. 
Kentucky (4-1) did not play. Next: vs. Tennessee-Chattanooga, Saturday. 

19. 
Virginia (5-2) did not play. Next: at Marshall, Thursday, Dec. 20. 

20. 
Alabama (2·2) did not play. Next: at No. 9 North Carolina, Saturday. 

21. 
Michigan State (2-2) did not play. Next: at Cincinnati, Thursday. 

22. 
Southam Mississippi (2-1) did not play. Next: vs. Northeast Louisiana, Saturday. 

23. 
Georgia Tech (3-2) did not play. Next: at Temple, Saturday. 

24. 
East Tennessee State (6-1) did not play. Next: at George Mason, Saturday. 

25. 
Texas (3-2) did not play. Next: at UC Santa Barbara, Tuesday, Dec. 18. 


NCAA SCORES 
BROOKLYN COL. (47) 
Birmingham 8·13 1-2 17, Sigler 0-2 2-2 2, Solis 6-10 1-1 13, Rosen 0-3 0-0 0. Bickham 0·2 0-0 0, Gordon 0-2 2·2 2. Entwhistle 3-8 1·1 7, Plott 3-4 0· 0 6, Brooks 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 20-45 7·8 47. ST. JOHN'S (57) 
Sealy 4-12 2-2 10, Scott 7·11 6-7 20. Werdann 2­7 2-2 6, Buchanan 2-5 0-0 6, Beckett 4-5 0-0 10, Mullin 1-6 0-0 2, Luyk 0-2 0·0 0. Cain 0·2 1-2 1, Muto 1·6 0-0 2. Totals 21-56 11-13 57. 
Halftime-St. John's 33, Brooklyn Col. 16. 3·point QQ.als--Brooklyn Col. 0-1 (Gordon 0-1), St. John's 4·~1 (Beckete 2-2, Buchanan 2-4, Luyk 0·1, Sealy 0-2. Mullin 0·2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds--Brooklyn Col. 33 (Solis 11 ), St. John's 29 (Scott 7). Assists-Brooklyn Col. 10 (Entwhistle 4), St. John's 8 (Buchanan 5). Total fouls--Brooklyn Col. 15, St. John's 12. A-4,944. 
SOUTH ALABAMA (91) 
Hines 1·3 0-0 2. Washington 2·6 1-2 5, Adams 5­14 4-5 14, Yelding 2-5 0-0 4, McDaniels 7-12 2-2 16. Eackles 8·17 2-218, Portillo 3·10 7-1213, Alvin 0-0 0-0 0, Turner 0·3 0·0 0. James 1-4 0·0 2, Curtis6-105-617. Totals35-8421-2991. ARKANSAS (101) 
Day 8-16 9-10 26, Huery 4·12 2-2 10. Wallace 4· 6 1·2 9. Bowers 2·7 3-4 7, Mayberry 10-15 1-2 25, Morris 3· 7 3-4 9, Miller 5-10 2-2 12, Murry 1-3 0-0 3, Fletcher o-o 0·0 0. Blley 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 37·76 21·26101. 
Halftime-Arkansas 39, South Alabama 34. 3· point goals--South Alabama 0·3 (Adams 0-1, Turner 0-2), Arkansas 6·14 (Mayberry 4-6, Murry 1-1, Day 1·5, Huery 0-1, Wallace 0-1). Fouled ( out-None. Rebounds--South Alabama 60 (Curtis 12), Arkansas 34 (Morris 8). Assists--South Alabama 16 (McDaniels 4), Arkansas 23 (Maybarry 8). Total fouls--5outh Alabama 21, Arkansas 20. Technical--South Alabama coach Ronnie Arrow. A-9.382. 
NHL STANDINGS 
All Times EST 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Division 
w L T Pta GF GA 

NY Rangers 17 11 5 39 124 99 
Philadelphia 18 14 2 38 119 112 
Washington 18 15 0 36 112 100 
New Jersey 16 12 4 36 124 107 
Pittsburgh 12 16 3 27 120 121 
NY Islanders 10 17 2 22 78 108 
Adams Division 
Boston 16 10 4 36 97 97 
Montreal 16 13 3 35 104 99 
Hartlord 13 13 4 30 88 94 
Buffalo 10 13 7 27 92 99 
Quebec 7 19 6 20 90 137 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norris Division 
w L T Pta GF GA 

Chicago 21 10 2 44 111 80 
St. Louis 17 9 4 38 103 83 
Detroit 14 13 4 32 116 116 
Minnesota 9 17 6 24 92 106 
Toronto 7 24 15 84 139 
Smythe Division 
Calgary 18 10 4 40 134 103 
Los Angeles 16 7 5 37 117 89 
Vancouver 14 14 3 31 95 103 
Edmonton 11 15 2 24 86 84 
Winnipeg 9 17 7 25 108 119 
Tuesday's Games 
Late Game Not Included 
Detroit 8, Buffalo 3 
N.Y. 
Islanders 3, New Jersey 2 Chicago 4, Pittsburgh 1 Washington 4, Philadelphia 1 Calgary 5, Minnesota 4 Winnipeg 3, St. Louis 3, tie 

N.Y. 
Rangers at Los Angeles, (n) 


Wednesday's Games Boston at Hartlord, 7:35p.m. Montreal at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Vancouver at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. 
NHL LINESCORES 
Philadelphia 0 0 1-1 
Washington 1 2 1-4 
First Period-1, Washington, Ridley 10 (Ciccarelli, Tatarinov), 9:43. Penalties--Murphy, Phi (holding), 1:DO; Hunter, Was (hooking), 14:54; Samuelsson, Phi (holding), 17:33. 
Second Period-2, Washington, Turcotte 1, 3:36. 3, Washington, Hunter 8 (Tatarlnov, Hatcher), 
17:18 (pp). Penalties--Ridley, Was (holding), 3:52; Ricci, Phi (roughing), 7:32; Hunter, Was (roughing), 
7:32: Hatcher, Was (hooking), 14:13; Baron, Phi (holding), 16:42. 
Third Period-4, Washington, Ciccarelli 3 (Johansson, Rouse), 4:05. 5, Philadelphia, Sutter 6 (Craven, Baron), 11:35. Penalties--None. 
Chicago 0 1 3-4 
Pittsburgh 1 0 D-1 
First Period-1, Pittsburgh, Stevens 18 (Tagllanetti, Pietrangelo), 19:30. Penalties--Loney, Pit (holding), 4:52; McGill, Chi (hooking), 8:20; Murphy, Pit (holding), 9:50: Gilbert, Chi (unsportsmanlike conduct), 1 0:08; Cullen, Pit (unsponsmanlike conduct), 10:08. 
Second Period-2. Chicago, Murray 7 (Kucera. Thomas), 15:51. Penalties-Loney, Pit (holding), 3:04; Manson, Chi (hooking), 8:49. 
Third Period-3, Chicago, Murray 8 (Graham, Thomas), 8:22. 4, Chicago, Larmer 22 (Chelios), 10:49. 5, Chicago, McNeill2 (Hudson), 12:54. Penalties--K.Brown, Chi (holding), :24: Coffey, Pit (slashing), 4:36; Creighton, Chi (roughing), 5:42; Kyte, Pit (roughing), 5:42; Pietrangelo, Pit. misconduct-game misconduct, 10:49; Manson, Chi (roughing), 11:42. 
Winnipeg 0-----J St. Louis 1 1 0-----J 
First Period-1, Winnipeg, Sykes 5 (Ashton, MacDermid), 8:32. 2. St. Louis, Courtnall11 (Hull, Stevens). 14:39. 
Second Period-3, St. Louis, Sutter 9 (Courtnall, Bassen), :52. 4, Winnipeg, Ashton 3 (MacDermid, Sykes), 11 :30. 
Third Period--S, St. Louis, Bassen 4 (Featherstone, Courtnall), 1 :57. 6, Winnipeg, Sykes 6 (Ashton, MacDermid), 3:30. 
Overtime-None. 
New Jersey 0 0 2-2 N.Y. Islanders 0 2 1-3 
BuHalo 0 1 2--3 Detroit 1 5 2­
Calgary 2 2 1-5 Minnesota 1 0 3-4 
NBA STANDINGS 
All Times EST EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 
W L Pet. GB Boston 16 4 .800 Philadelphia 14 6 .700 2 New Jersey 8 11 .421 7 112 New York 8 11 .421 7112 Washington 6 14 .300 10 Miami 5 13 .278 10 Central Division Milwaukee 15 6 .714 Detroit 14 7 .667 1 Chicago 12 8 .600 2112 Cleveland 10 10 .500 4 112 Charlotte 8 11 .421 6 Indiana 8 12 .400 6 112 Atlanta 7 11 .389 6 112 WESTERN CONFERENCE Mid-I Division 
w L Pet. GB San Antonio 11 5 .688 Utah 13 7 .650 Houston 11 9 .550 2 Minnesota 7 12 .388 5112 Dallas 6 11 .353 5112 Denver 5 15 .250 8 Orlando 5 16 .238 8 112 Pacific Dlvlalon Portland 18 1 .947 LA Lakers 11 6 .647 6 Phoenix 11 7 .611 6112 Golden State 12 8 .600 61/2 LA Clippers 9 10 .474 9 Seattle 5 12 .294 12 Sacramento 3 15 .167 14112 1\leeday'a Games Late Game Not Included 
San Antonio 95, Detroit 86 New York 109, Miami 90 Philadelphia 119, Orlando 114 Milwaukee 99, Chicago 87 Minnesota 101, LA Clippers 95 Denver 128, Washington 125 Phoenix 113, Sacramento 90 Utah 135, Golden State 117 Indiana at Portland, (n) 
Wednesday's Games Milwaukee at Boston, 7:30 p.m. San Antoniooat Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. LA Clippers at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Atlanta at Miami, 7:30p.m. Houston at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Indiana at Seattle, 10 p.m. Dallas at LA Lakers. 10:30 p.m. 
NBA BOXES 
LA CLIPPERS (95) 
Norman 13-31 5-8 31, Smith 4-9 0-0 8, Manning 6-12 3-6 15, Grant 2-8 2-2 6, Kimble 1·4 2-2 4, Vaught 5·12 1-2 11, Garland 2-8 2-4 6, Garrick 2-2 0-0 4, Bannister 0·1 0-0 0, Martin 2-5 6-6 10. Totals 37-92 21-30 95. MINNESOTA (101) 
Corbin 3-12 7-8 13, Spencer 7-10 9·11 23, Breuer 3·1 0 3-4 9, Campbell 12-20 6-10 30, Richardson 5-14 2-412, Mltchell1-4 5-7 7, Brooks 2-5 0-0 4. West 1-2 0-0 2, Thornton 0-1 1-2 1. Totals 34-78 33-46 101. LA Clippers 23 28 28 1&-95 Minnesota 30 21 22 2&-101 
CHICAGO (87) 
Grant 5-9 2-5 12, Pippen 7-14 2-2 16, Cartwright 3-7 2-2 B. Jordan 13-23 5-7 31, Paxson 1-2 0-0 2, King 0-2 0-0 0, Hodges 1-1 0-0 2, Armstrong 3-9 1­1 7, Hopson 1-5 2-2 4, Williams 2-4 0-0 4, Levingston 0-0 1·2 1. Totals 36-76 15·21 87. MILWAUKEE (99) 
Brickowski 8-17 3-4 19, Roberts 3· 7 0-0 6, Slkma 6-9 2-2 15, Humphries 8-16 5-5 21, Robertson 7­14 2-2 16. Pierce 4-9 4-4 12, Schayes 3-4 0-0 6, Lohaus 0-3 4-4 4, Grayer 0-1 0-0 0, Henson 0-1 0­0 0, Kornet 0-0 0·0 D. Totals 39-81 20-21 99. ~hicago 28 27 10 22-7 Milwaukee 28 25 24 22-99 
MIAM1(90) 
Long 2-4 0-0 4, Thompson 1-5 2-6 4, Seikaly 4-9 6-814, Douglas 6-11 2-214, Rice 3-11 3-4 9, Edwards 7-16 1-2 15, Davis 0-0 1-2 1, Burton 5-8 5-6 15, Coles 3-7 2-2 9, Kessler 0-1 2-2 2, Askins 1-3 1-2 3. Totals 32· 75 25-36 90. NEW YORK (109) 
Mustaf 5-8 1-4 11, Oakley 0-6 5-6 5, Ewing 12-18 5-5 29, Cheeks 2-5 0-0 4, G.Wilkins 7-13 4-5 18, Starks 7-12 5-9 22, Jackson 1-1 2-2 4, E.Wilkins 5­81-2 11, Quinnett 2-4 0-0 4, Gray 0·4 1-1 1. Totals 41-79 24·34 109. Miami 19 10 30 31-90 New York 26 29 27 27-1 09 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American La~~gue 
BOSTON RED SOX-Named Steve Braun 
roving minor league hitting Instructor. 
OAKLAND ATHLETICs-Agreed to terms with 
Dave Henderson, outfielder, on a three-year 
contract. 
California Laague 
PALM SPRINGS ANGELs-Named Stewart 
Cliburn pitching coach. 
BASKETBALL 
Contlnenlat Basketball Aaaoclatlon 
OKLAHOMA CITY CAVALRY-Acquired 
Orlando Graham, forward, from the Quad City 
Thunder for the rights to Ricky Grace, guard; Barry 
Mhchell, forward; a second-round draft choice In 
1991 and an undisclosed amount of caah. 
HOCKEY 
National Hockey lallgue 
PITISBURGH PENGUIN&-Traded Jim 
Johnson and Chris Dahlquist, defensemen. to the 
Minnesota North Stars for Larry Murphy and Peter 
Tagllanetti, detensemen. 
ST. LOUIS BLUEs-Recalled Dave Thomlinson, 
left wing, from Peoria of the International League. 
Wealam Hockey Laague 
WHL--suspended Tri-Citles assistant coach Gerry Johannson for lour games and fined him $1,000 and suspended Spokane coach Bryan Maxwell for three games and flnad him $500 for their parts In a fight between periods of a game Dec.S. COLLEGE 
BRIDGEPORT-Announced the resignation of Francis Poisson, men's athletic director. 
CLEVELAND STATE--suspended Roy Williams, junior basketball center, lndeflnhely for violating team rules. 
SPBA STANDINGS 
W L Pet. GB Sun City 11 5 .688 St. Petersburg 10 7 .588 1 112 Fort Myers 9 8 .529 2 112 Daytona Beach 8 8 .500 3 San Bernardino 8 9 .471 3 112 Florida 3 12 .200 7 112 Tuesday's Games 
Sun City 6, St. Petersburg 2 
San Bernardino 2, Daytona Beach 0 
Fort Myers 6, Florida 2 Wednesday's Games 
Florida at Fort Myers, 2, 12:35 p.m. 
Sun City at St. Petersburg, 7 p.m. 
San Bernardino at Daytona Beach, 7:05p.m. 
PHILADELPHIA (119) 
Barkley B-17 12-16 28, Mahorn 5-12 8-8 18, Gmlnski 2-5 2-2 6, Hawkins 8-16 6-9 27, Green 3­9 2-2 B, Bol 2-2 o-o 4, R.Anderson 9·16 2-2 20. Turner 2-4 4-5 8, Payne 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 39-81 36· 
44119. 
ORLANDO (114) 
Catledge 7-17 6-8 20, Scott 11-26 2-2 29, Kite 1­2 0-0 2, Skiles 8·16 2-3 20, Smith 7-14 2-3 IT. Acres 5·7 2-4 12, N.Anderson 4-8 0-0 8, Ansley 2­5 0-0 4. Wiley 0·1 0-0 0, Reynolds 0-2 2-2 2.Tot~ls 45-98 16-22 114. Philadelphia 29 34 26 3D-119 Orlando 29 22 29 34--114 
SACRAMENTO (90) 
Simmons 5-20 1·2 11, Tisdale 12-19 4-4 28, Causwell1·1 2-2 4, Hansen 6·12 0-013, Sparrow 3-61-1 7, Wennlngton 3-6 3-49, Carr 1-10 1·2 3, Wood 2·4 0-0 6, Bonner 2·6 3-4 7, Lackner 1-3 0-0 2. Totals 36·87 15·19 90. PHOENIX (113) 
Chambars 6-17 4-5 16, McDaniel10·15 0-0 20, West 2-4 2-4 6, Hornacek-6-14 0·0 12, Johnson 8­14 10-12 26, Majerle 5-1 0 6·6 16, Rambis 3·5 0-0 6, Perry 1-4 4-6 6. Knight 0-0 0-0 0, Ceballos 1·2 3-4 5, Nealy 0-0 0·0 0. Totals 42-85 29·37 113. Sacramento 18 21 28 23--90 Phoenix 31 26 26 3D-113 
SAN ANTONIO (95) 
Cummings 3-7 0·0 7, Elliott 6-14 0·2 13, Robinson 8-22 11·12 27, Anderson 2-8 4-5 B. Strickland 7·15 2-2 16, Greenwood 6-7 0·0 12, Williams 4-6 0-0 9. Myers 1-3 1-1 3, Schlntzlus 0-1 0-0 0, Massenburg 0-0 0·0 O.Totals37-83 18-22 95. DETROIT (86) 
Rodman 1-5 1·2 3, Edwards 4-11 3-4 11, Lalmbeer 4-6 0-0 11, Dumars 6-14 7·9 19, Thomas 4-12 7-1016, Salley 6-7 3-4 15, Aguirre 4-14 0-D 8, JohnSon 0-3 3-6 3, Blanks 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 29­72 24-35 86. San Antonio 26 24 20 2!>---95 Detroit 22 25 15 2~6 
0 ~~· ' Daily Specials 
'<..._0 ffo 
qO 

' 

THE COMMONS
. 

OPEN 2p.m.-3e.m. 
HILLY CLUB CHRISTMAS BU FINAL DAY FOR SIGN-UPS 
I

Wed.12/12at LaFortune INFO Desk from 6:00-7:30 PM PRICE $95 Any Questions Call Mike x1779 

-
Wednesday, December 12, 1990
page 12 The Observer 
Walsh may coach Tampa... 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -Bill left on his two-year contract Walsh says he plans to wait un-with NBC as a football analyst. til after the NFL playoffs to de-Although not in a hurry to cide whether to stay in broad-make a decision about his fu­casting or return to football, ture, he thinks Tampa Bay but the Tampa Bay Buccaneers-could be a good opportunity. 
would be his top choice if he chooses the ·latter. 
"If I piGk a team to sign with, Tampa Bay would be. at the top of my list," Walsh told the St. Petersburg Times on Monday. "But there's a lot that would have to occur before we final­ized something." 
Walsh led the San Francisco 49ers to three Super Bowl titles before retiring after the 1988 season. He has seven games 
Curry 
continued from page 16 
everything works out, what kinl:l of offers I get," says Curry. 
Says Schafer of Curry's pro chances, "He's made a tremen­dous improvement. If he con­tinues, who knows?" 
For tile immediate future, Curry's concerns are his con­tinued improvement and the play of the team over Christmas break, when they go East to play four games. 
"I'm happy (with my play so far), but I think I can do better," 
"I have great respect for (owner) Hugh Culverhouse and great respect for the whole or­ganization," Walsh said. 
"I also think Tampa Bay can become competitive and real contenders in that division (NFC Central) right away. It's just a matter of me looking into whether I want to leave the San Francisco area at this stage of my life. That would be the prime consideration." 
he says. "The biggest part of the season is what happens after Christmas. All of the east­ern guys will be psyched." 
The Irish will have some time to kill before their neJtt'game, however, as they will enjoy a two-week vacation before they take off for the East Coast. Curry is one person who can use the rest. 
"You get run-down working out everyday," he says. 
And for a busy mechanical engineer/left wing, vacation time is a precious commodity. 

Walsh said he has not talked directly with Culverhouse, but that he has had two conversa­tions with San Francisco owner Eddie DeBartolo and 49ers president Carmen Policy about the Bucs coaching vacancy. 
He said Culverhouse had asked DeBartolo and Policy to present Tampa Bay's position in preliminary discussions. 
DeBartolo told the newspaper on Sunday that Walsh "might prefer to be the general man­ager instead of being on the field." The former 49ers coach would not elaborate on what position he would like to hold for the Bucs. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be playing walleyball at the JACC today from 5 -7 p.m. All are invited. Meet at racquetball Ct. 2. Questions? Call Mark Zoia at x1606 or Cathy Bradshaw at x4088. 
"In Honor of Craig" won the NVA Co-Ree League Championships by defeating "Frank's Team" 65-50. Members of the teams include defending champions Mo Nelligan and Liz Toohey as well as Dave Regnier, Brant Frey, Lisa and Liz Holtz. 
Vanderbilt upset Georgia, 75-74, in overtime Tuesday. In other Top 25 action, Arkansas downed Southern Alabama 101­91 and St. John's got by Brooklyn 57-47. 
...but Browns want him, too 
The Cleveland Browns have talked to former San Francisco 49ers coach Bill Walsh about joining the organization, ac­cording to a published report. 
The report also said any Browns shakeup would not in­volve the jobs of Browns execu­tive vice president Ernie Accorsi or pro personnel director Mike Lombardi. 
The (Cleveland) Plain Dealer quoted unidentified sources as saying the Browns were one of 
·three teams to contact Walsh, now an NBC-TV analyst, about a head coaching or front-office position. The other teams are believed to be Tampa Bay and a West Coast team, possibly the Los Angeles Rams, the newspa­per said. 
"I'm not going to comment on that," Modell said when asked if Walsh had been contacted. ''I'm not going to comment on any names in relation to the coach of the Cleveland Browns." 
Bud Carson was fired as Browns head coach on Nov. 5 after the team went 2-7. 
He was replaced by Cleveland offensive coordinator Jim Shofner, who is not expected to return as head coach next sea­son but may take a post with the team's front off)ce. Under Shofner, the Browns have de­teriorated to 2-11. 

excellent. Notre Dame coach Major improvements of the cent of the student respondents too unpredictable. But if Notre Pat Murphy commends the field-or the outright construc­would be more likely to attend Dame wants to see the baseball playing field surface, calling it tion of another stadium, per­a campus baseball game if the team truly grow and create a 
Field 
continued from page 16 
"much better" than downtown haps across from Eck Tennis stadium were of a higher qual­corresponding growth in fan a poor public address system. Coveleski Stadium, the site of Pavilion, and re-sodding Jake ity, similar to the good-time attendance, something will be Problems with the field itself the class-A South Bend White Kline's surface on the new 
atmosphere at Coveleski, where done about the miserable atmo­include insufficient dugout Sox. field-is becoming necessary as there is plenty of seating, con­sphere for watching a baseball room (the visitor's space only "It takes seven or eight years the disparity between Irish cessions ·and bathrooms. game.
fits J4 people) and inadequate to mold a ground like that," baseball attendance and other It is true that a school in the 
storage areas. said Murphy, "and the teams' attendance grows. Midwest is not going to be the If something is done, thingsCosmetic changes on the groundspeople have done a A Notre Dame Sports Market­most ideal place to watch a might be "shakin' at the Jake" 
field, however, have been great job." ing report revealed that 86 per-baseball game. The weather is for different reasons. 
..~-------------------------------------------------·········································································~ 

JACC PRO SHOP
BULL DOli ALARMS 
• I 
JACC FIELDHOUSE­
MARKETING PRESENTATION Tonight at 6:00PM 
ENTER GATE 3 
DECEMBER 13, HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY 12NOON-12MJD NIGHT 
8. 
8R()()t't /(1 
10% OFF Regular Priced ICE RINK 
Pro Shop ITEMS 
• 
Many More Items Drastically Reduced Door Prizes Given by Jansport and MVP 
JL(QYWIEu MOM, DAD, and NORA 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
STEPH !! 
19 December 18th 

• 
Sale merchandise also available from
LOVE, 
Athletic Department Mail Order
Mom, Dad, Ag, ••
Eck Tennis Pro Shop and • 
and Peachie 
Golf Pro. Shop •• •• 
..........................................................................:
-

~--------~------------------­
Wednesday, December 12, 1990 
The Observer page 13 
AP Photo Michael Chang defeated Stefan Edberg in the Grand Slam Cup Tuesday. The tournament consists of the world's sixteen best players. 
* NOTRE DAME BOXING ATTENTION BOXERS Practice will begin Wednesday, Jan. 16, 1991 at 3:45p.m. in the JACC Boxing Room.Those students who did not receive a physical mqst do so prior to practicing. All students must have a physical, parental consent and proof of insuamce before the first day of practice. Any questions call Norm Conley at 233-8133 or any other officer.  -·  

New study reports higher steroid use 
STATE COLLEGE. Pa. (AP) -A limited study of five NCAA Division I-A schools suggests that 1110re than a quarter of the nation's foot­ball players may have used steroids at least once. 
A professor in Penn State's college of health and human development said Monday his study sets an "upper limit" of actual anabolic steroid use among college athletes, whereas an NCAA study done last year set a lower limit. 
"The mean overall pro­jected rate of use of anabolic steroids across all sports surveyed was 14.7 percent for male athletes and 5.9 percent of females." Professor Charles Yesalis said. 
Yesalis, who worked with researchers from Penn State 
Watson may rejoin Club now that Jew is accepted 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. (AP) ­Tom Watson still will not indi­cato whether he intends to re­join the Kansas City Country Club, although he said he is pleased by the club's decision to invite Henry Bloch into tho fold. 
Watson. who grew up playing golf at the 94-year-old private club, resigned Nov. 28 when he learned the club's membership committee rejected an applica­tion by Bloch, who is Jewish. 
Watson's wife and two chil­dron are .Jr,wish. He is not. 
and five other schools, said the study shows that steroid use is more widespread than earlier thought. Last year's NCAA study, based on self­reporting, estimated steroid use at less than five percent. 
"For years. a number. of re­searchers have believed that with self-reporting there's an underreporting 'of use," Yesalis said. "This represents an upper bound, and for the (irst time there are boundaries and somewhere in between is reality," Yesalis said. 
Athletes at five schools that agreed to participate in the study were asked to estimate steroid use among their oppo­nents. Even so, Yesalis said the athletes said a lot about thei~ own programs. 
The club's current and incoming board of directors an­nounced last week that if Bloch re-submitted an application it "will be acted upon favorably." 
Bloch, chairman and chief ex­ecutive of H&R Block Inc., ana­tional tax-preparation firm, said he planned to do so. 
Club president L. Chandler Smith said if Watson chooses to rejoin, he must follow proce­dure and apply for reinstate­ment. The club's board of di­rectors then must approve his application. 
Chang upsets Edberg in Slam Cup 
MUNICH, Germany (AP) ­Michael Chang won the last four games to upset top-ranked Stefan Edberg 6-4, 4-6, 7-5 on Tuesday in the opening round of the $6 million Grand Slam Cup, the richest tournament in tennis history. · 
Chang, who trailed 5-3 in the decisive set, broke Edberg's last two service games to win the error-filled match. 
"I knew I had a decent chance against him, I've played him before and he's won some 
·and I've won some," Chang said. 
Pete Sampras and Goran Ivanisevic also advanced to the second round. Sampras, the 
U.S. Open champion who is seeded fourth, overcame a sloppy start to beat Andrei Cherkasov of the Soviet Union 5-7, 6-2, 7-5. Ivanisevic, the fifth seed from Yugoslavia, ousted Kevin Curren 7-6 (7-3), 7-6 (9-7). 
The 16-man field was deter­mined on the basis of results in the four Grand Slam tourna­ments of the year -the Australian, French and U.S. Opens and Wimbledon. T-he winner gets $2 million and first-round losers receive $100,000. 
Chang's stamina and deter­mination prevailed over Edberg, who made too many unforced mistakes on his usu­ally perfect volleys. 
The victory leaves Chang trailing 5-3 in career clashfls against Edberg. Chang beat Edberg when he became the youngest Grand Slam winner at the 1989 French Open. 
Edberg was serving for the match at 5-4, but double­faulted and hit a volley wide to allow Chang pull even. Chang 
::.:;,:;:;:; .. ··· 
tl-"' 
•..4' 

;~ . ~~~-:::~: ~:;-; .~ :
. 

then held his serve at love, the first love game of the match, then got to match point on a double-fault before passing Edberg at the net for the vic­tory. 
"The year is finished at last, and that's one good thing," said Edberg, who won only three points in the last three games. "I .missed a lot of easy shots, it's hard to get motivated after such a tough year." 
Sampras served 16 aces but struggled with his second serve and his ground strokes. 
"I rely on my first serve maybe too much," Sampras said. · 
He lost the first set when he committed two double faults. 
On the first. he fell behind 15­
40. The 19-year-old American then seTV~ed an ace but followed with another double fault to give Cherkasov the set. 
Sampras quickly took control and dominated the second set, firing three aces on the last four points to win. He had a chance to put the match away after going up a break for a 5-4 lead in the final set, but hit a forehand long on the third break point. 
But the Soviet was unable to take advantage. A spectacular passing shot down the line gave Sampras two break points and when Cherkasov netted a back­hand, the American re~ained the lead. . 
,.....---------------------­
·page 14 The ObserVer Wednesday, December 12, 1990 
~~---­
'I • 

North Stars lose again, Blackhawks beat Pengui.ns 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP) Calgary Flames built a 5-1 lead -AI Macinnis, the NHL's top­before holding off a third-pe­scoring defenseman, extended riod rally for a 5-4 vicwry over his scoring streak to se..ven the Minnesota North Stars. games with a goal and two as­Though he allowed four sists Tuesday night as the goals, Mike Vernon was often spectacular in stopping 33_ shots. He has 14 victories, sec­ond in the NHL to Chicago's Ed Belfour, and is 5-1-2 in his last eight games. Robert Reichel scored twice for the Flames, who are unbeaten (4-0-3) in their last seven road games. 
Dave Gagner had two goals for Minnesota, which lost (or only the second time in seven games (4-2-1). 
Blackhawks 4, P~nguins1 
PITTSBURGH -Troy Murray, Steve Larmer and Mike McNeill scored ju~t over four _minutes apart in the third period to give the Chicago Blackhawks a 4-1 win over the Pittsburgh Penguins on Tuesday night. 
Chicago has the NHL's best road record at 11-5-1, includ­ing a 9-2-1 streak. T·he Penguins are 1-6-1 in their last eight home games and have scored five goals in their last four games. 
Penguins goalie Frank Pietrangelo was given a 10­minute misconduct and game misconduct for arguing with referee Kerry Fraser after Larmer's goal at 10:49. Pietrangelo, apparently believ­ing he was interfered with by Mike Hudson, slammed his stick against the goal cage and was given the penalties. Wendell Young replaced him. 
Larmer scored his 22nd goal when he deflected Chris Chelios' shot from the right point. 
Islanders 3, Devils 2 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -Ray Ferraro's second goal of the game with 42 seconds remain­ing in regulation time gave the Islanders a 3-2 victory over the New Jersey Devils, snapping New York's seven-game winless streak. 
Ferraro took a pass from Bill Berg in the DevilS: zone, used Tom Fitzgerald as a pick to avoid a defenseman and swept into the slot, where he deked Chris Terreri to the ice and shoveled a forehand shot into the vacated net. 
The Islanders had been 0-5-2 since beating Winnipeg on Thanksgiving night and are 2­7-2 in their last 11 games. 
The Devils trailed 2-0 after two periods but tied the game on power-play goals by Brendan Shanahan and Claude Lemieux. 
Capitals 4, Flyers 1 
LANDOVER, Md. -Dino Ciccarelli scored a goal and as­sisted on another as the Washington Capitals defeated the Philadelphia Flyers 4-1 on Tuesday night. 
Washington improved its record to 8-4-0 in the last 12 games and is now 5-0-1 in its last six against the Flyers. 


usc 
continued from page 16 
se_ason. 

·The Trojans will look to se­nior forward Ronnie Coleman to do most of the damage inside the paint. Coleman leads the team in rebounding with 10.2 rpg even though he is only 6-6, and is second on the team in scoring with 17.2 ppg. Point guard Robert Pack, the only other Trojan player averaging in double figures at 13.2 ppg, handles most of the playmaking chores as he averages 5.8 apg. 
USC is coached by George Raveling, one of the most rec­ognized figures in all of college basketball. Raveling, whose re­
Notre Dame hops leading scorer Daimon Sweet (16.4 ppg) will help pull sume includes assistant coa"'ch­the Irish out of the doldrums of defeat tonight against USC. 
ing duties in the 1984 and.1988 Olympics, is in his fifth season at USC. 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, will count on the Texas Express backcourt of Daimon Sweet and Elmer Bennett for most of its scoring. Sweet, a 6-5 guard, leads the Irish with 16.4 ppg, while Bennett, who will con­tinue to assume the point guard duties while Tim Singleton is out with a back injury, averages 
15.5 ppg and 4.8 apg. 6-9 junior LaPhonso Ellis 
(14.9 ppg, 10.9 rpg) will be counted on for inside scoring from his forward position, and 6-11 center Keith Tower should help out on the boards. Either Kevin Ellery (11.8 ppg) or freshman Brooks Boyer will round out the starting lineup. 
Boyer and Jon Ross have been getting considerably more playing time of late, and with Singleton's injury their contin­
.ued improvement off the bench may be essential to the team's progress. Boyer in particular has been impressive ~n the last three games, averaging 9.0 ppg over that period and helping Bennett with the ballhandling chores. 
"The way I can help with Tim Singleton out of the lineup is to help bring the ball up," Boyer say. "Elmer can't do that all by himself. And if I get the open shot I think I can knock it down and maybe help out with a cou­ple of three-pointers. I'm not going to go coast to coast and dunk in anyone's face, but hopefully I can help out." 


Are You A Big Brother or Big Sister? 
Need a Special Gift? 
Visit Our Children's Section. 
25% off All Christmas Books and more. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
· 2nd floor 
~~~~~~ 
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest  
December 13  8:00 &  10:30 P.M.  ••••i  
Montgomery  Theatre  LaFortune  
Admission  $1  
•  


Wednesday, December 12, 1990 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 
CROSSWORD 

5 p.m. "Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe." Mass in Spanish with Father Thomas Zurcher, with sacred music ACROSS 28 Mercer-Raksin 59--Ben of Notre Dame Folk Choir. Sacred Heart Church. heroine Adhem 
1 Brewer's 30 Sitter's creation 60 "Fraidy" onepurchase 33 Diverts 

62 Memorable 35 Les Etats---actor-puzzler 5 Coniferous tree 
10 Coarse hominy 
36'Neighbor of 

63 External14 Pulitzer Prize 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
J.F.K.

novelist: 1958 64 Merit
37 Act listlessly 

3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 15 Poet Dickinson 65 Writer Hamill 
38 Kind of button 

Seminar, "Understanding the Molecular Thermodynamics 16 Lead for 66 Grazes
40 Castle defense 
Columbo

of Supercritical Fluid Solutions," Prof. Joan Brennecke, 
41 Shoshonean 67 Dossier
17 Skull and -­
department of chemical engineering. Room 356 contents
42 Delta material 

(dire warning) 
Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. Sponsored by 
43 Missourian's

19 Utah ski resort
departments of aerospace and mechanical engineering. comment
20 Direction of DOWN
45 Sun. talk 
antitrades

4:15 p.m. Student Gmup Presentation, •"Reproductive 46 Unrefined 1 A spice 
21 Hell

Hights." Room 205A O'Shaughn~ssy. Sponsored by gender 48 Red dye 2 Pearl Mosque 
23 Fountain drink 
studies department. 49 See 1 Across site
24 Sorceress whom Jason 51 Algerian port 3 Composer 
4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "What's New with Neutrons? wed 53 Accomplice Janacek or The Fundamental Properties of the Neutron," Geoffrey 25 Composer 55 First name of a 4 Precedent­Greene, National Institute of Standards and Technology. Franck memorable lord setting legal Hoom 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by physics action 
department. 5 Balzac's "-­ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE de Sceaux" 
4:30 p.m. Colloquium in Music, "Gender, Genius and 
6 Ethically neutral Creativity: Fanny Mendelsohn Hensel and the Dilemma of 1 Bacon part Women Composers," Paula Higgins, associate professor, a Key for Rene 25 Nobelist in 40 Showing fear or 54 Chinese horn d.l~partment of music. Room 124 Crowley Hall of Music. 9 Fit of Literature: 1957 wonder 55 Not on time Sponsored by music department. uncontrollable 26 Chew the 42 Battle memento 56 Org. regulating • 
laughter or scenery 44 Listened to college sports crying 27 Game Thurber 
47 Emulated 57 Uncovered 10 Scenic view enjoyed hawks wagon29 Chloe and 
MENUS 11 Old term for 5o Stir 58 Borough near
Pittypat

November 1 52 Sorry group Pittsburgh
31 Long-legged

12 Silent 53 David is one 61 Intimation
S.A. bird

Notre Dame 
13 Fen fuel 
32 Eucharistic 18 Cursed plate Answers to any three clues in this 
FEAST OF CHRISTMAS 
22 Harem rooms 34--wine puzzle are available by touch-tone 24 Pasteur (alcohol) phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each Beef and Vegetable Soup portrayer 39 Actor Thicke minute). Prime Rib of Beef Grilled Breast of Chicken Macadamia Coquille of Seafood & Scallops Fettucini Alfredo 
• 
CALVIN AND HOBBES Bill WATTERSON 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 

P,._G£":>. 114,._~ 
WI-\'( t \J'5£0 1>-. sox. 


-
. . 
................................................................................................._~..·················· 
n1"'~1::s R:lR T\-\Cl'St. 8\G 
Ht.\..Pit--.1\:s Mt tN'I£\..oP£5 MMl M~ C>t-~li 1-\o\..O tH\£R "\1::l P.. CO\ll'l.\:0 SAt-ITt>.. "Vt-lORED 
JAY HOSLER 
I 1-\0I't. SP>.~TI>-. 
00£.'51'-l'\ 11\RcW 
1-\1") 8K~ OOT 'tMN \-\£GElS IT. 

.... 
~ 

Sports 
Wednesday, December 12, 1990page 16 

ND hopes to rebound from losing streak tonight 
Trojans invade ACC to face 2-6 team 
By KEN TYSIAC Notre Dame's schedule has 
Associate Sports Editor been a murderer's row featur­ing Arizona, Duke, Indiana and UClA, the fact remains that the 
The Notre Dame men's bas­Irish have to win against the ketball team desperately needs less·er teams even if they do a win to pull itself out of the play well against the top pro­depths of a losing streak that grams in the country. ­
has ·reached six games. USC is one of the teams on 
The Irish (2-6) hope to get a the schedule which Notre Dame win tonight when USC visits the must defeat. Joyce ACC at 8 p.m. Although "You have to go into every the Trojans have a 4-1 record, game believing you're going to 
their victories have come win," freshman guard Brooks against teams like Chicago Boyer says. "Especially with the State, San Diego State and Col­situation we're in right now, we orado State. In their lone game have to go in there tomorrow, against a respectable opponent, play hard and get the win." the Trojans lost 72-59 against In order to stop USC, the Irish 
, Maryland. will have to stop 6-5 sophomore 
Still, USC has beaten the guard Harold Miner, who teams it was exp.ected to. beat. averages 24.0 points per game. Notre Dame, on the other hand, Miner, who was recruited has not. Last Monday, for ex­heavily by Notre Dame, is ample, the Irish lost 91-77 to a currently shooting 60.3 percent 
very heatable Butler squad. from the field and has made 12 
Although coach Digger Phelps's of 26 three-pointers on the squad can explain its losing record by pointing out that see USC I page 14 
sixth-leading scorer on the

By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
team, but this year he has be­come an essential part of the Irish offense. 
Most. students at the Univer­"He'd done reasonably well sity of Notre Dame feel their the past' two years," says schedul~ is plenty full when Schafer, "but he was disap­
they are enrolled in five pointed with his point produc­courses, but not Mike Curry. tion. He's hungrier this year,
A mechanical engineer,,(:urry more willing to give and take is not only taking six cl~sses, checks." · but in his spare time he finds According to Curry, a bal­
Mike Curry

the energy to star for the Notre anced scoring attack is part of Dame hockey. team. The junior "like when iCs four-on"-four or the reason for Notre Dame's left wing is the second-leading three-on-three. I can get open a success this season. scorer on the Irish squad, with lot easier. That's the most fun "The team doesn't depend on nine goals and nine assists in part." me. We have three good15 games so far this season. ·Schafer has given Curry the scorers in David Bankoske, Lou 
"This year it's been really green light, saying, "He's got Zadra, and myself. One has to 
tough," says Curry of his busy tremendous speed, and he's be hot (for the Irish to win)," he schedule, "but in the past it's starting to use it." says.helped." Curry enjoyed a successful As for his future, Curry has 
Notre Dame coach Ric high school career, playing for many options. Most hockeySchafer credits his star with John Marshall High School in players dream of playing pro­excellent organizational ability. Rochester, Minn., where he fessional hockey, but Curry isn't 
"He's a rare individual," says made all-conference and all­sure he'll take the opportunitySchafer. "He can manage the state his senior year. if he gets it. With a degree in rigors of academics and Making the all-state team in mechanical engineering from hockey." Minnesota is no small feat, but Notre Dame, he has the luxury
Intelligence is not the junior's even so Curry was relatively of taking offers from two only asset. If the rink at the unprepared for the jump to col­different fields. Joyce ACC were a racetrack, lege hockey. "I could see myself playingthen Curry would be A.J. Foyt. "The first year he was over­pro hockey in Europe where He's the fastest skater on the whelmed," says Schafer. "His the rinks are bigger and my team, and he enjoys using his second year he made adjust­speed will be more important,speed. ments, and this year he's really but I have to see how
The Observer/Scott McCann 

"I like it when the games are coming into his own." 
Minnesota-bred Mike Curry is a potent part of the Irish offensive 
really wide open," Curry says, Last year Curry was the
-
assa~lt. The junior has nine goals and nine assists this year. 
I 

Irish Baseball deserves better than Jake Kline 
Notre Dame has a 
barrassment that we don't have adequate resources the near future. world-class, athletic for them. Here are Murphy's three prize catches for But stop and look around. What you fiod is not the program. There is no next season: most ~ncouraging state of suppo_rt for the baseball disputing it. Some •Craig Allen, a pitcher from Franklin, Ky., who had a program. 
. examples of its world­0.72 ERA last season and a 10-2 record, fanning 94 Fan attendance is a major problem. Nobody goes to 
.. class facilities are batters in 67 innings. Allen also hit .396 and stole 24 the games. But let's not lay all the blame on the student Rolfs Aquatic Center, of 26 bases during that season. He was rated by body. Jake Kline Field is not exactly Dodger Stadium which rivals any Kentucky 24 magazine as the top pitcher in the state. (sorry for the partisanship). collegiate swimming •Steve Verduzco, a shortstop from San Jose, Calif., I can remember getting my first baseball writing site in the nation; the who hit .405 and stole 36 bases for his American assignment at The Observer, during my freshman year. I Eck Tennis Pavilion, Legion team this past summer. As a junior at Bel­was up at the office feeling pretty proud when Denni.s an attractive recruit­larmine Prep, he batted .355 with 26 thefts, Corrigan, the sports editor, said, "Things are shakin' at
Scott Brutocao
ing tool for tennis meanwhile maintaining a 4.0 GPA. He is the brother of the Jake. Bring a parka." coaches Bob Bayliss. Illinois quarterback Jason Verduzco, and he has two This seeming non sequitur turned out to be a telling
Irish Items 
brothers at Yale, one a quarterback and the other a characterization of the weather at Jake Kline: It's about and Jay Louderback; the Loftus Sports Center, which pitcher. 10 degrees colder than surrounding areas. I don't know contains an indoor football field and one of the fastest •Tim Kraus, a pitcher out of Cincinnati, who why. It has something to do with the wind, and possibly indoor tracks in the nation. · compiled a 1.57 ERA at Colerain High, going 7-2 in his with the configuration of buildings around the field. 
Jake Kline Field, however, doesn't cut it. junior season. He also played quarterback for the Whatever it is, it causes for vicious winds that have 
Whereas other programs' facilities are some of the football team and averaged more than 20 points a made my bones colder than any other weather best in the nation, Jake Kline Field is one of the worst. game for the basketball squad. conditions I've experienced at Notre Dame. And that description does not fit a class act like the Irish This catch fits the direction of the baseball team, Other problems that. discourage fan attendance are baseball program. which is slowly going the way of a national contender. scarce seating, no bathrooms, no concession stands and 
The inclusion of three more solid recruits to the Notre Granted, it is not there yet, but with student body and Dame baseball team only summons more ~em-Athletic Department support, it just might reach it in see FIELD I page 12 
.... , 







