
--~ -----~----~....., 
VOL. XXIII NO. 27 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1990 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Return of the 'Blue Jogger' 
Man attempts to have girl punch his stomach 
had dark short hair and a his late 20s to early 30s. He
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
and then said to the KnottNews Writer resident, "When I jog my medium complexion, Hurley 
stomach muscles tighten. A Knott Hall Resident was Could you punch me in the said. 
Similar incidents in whichconfronted early Monday stomach?" The girl refused and walked away. female joggers were ap­evening by a man asking if proached were reported lastshe would punch him In the She went to look for her rector or a resident assis­fall and spring. Although thestomach, according to Chuck physical description, namely 
Hurley, assistant director of tant, but was unable to lo­securities. cate either; therefore, the the blue jogging suit, and 
The girl was standing on incident was not reported di­methods of approach are ex­tho second floor landing rectly to Security, Hurley tremely similar, Security is when a man, dressed In a said. Currently, Security has unable at this time to make blue, two-toned jogging suit, no suspects. "If this would a positive identification or 
stopped her and politely happen again, students must even confirm the possibility asked where Walsh Hall was report the occurrence to Se­that this might be the same 
person.
located. He said he was curity as quickly as possi­looking for a girl dressed in ble," Hurley said. Notre Dame and Saint a jogging suit just like his. They man was white, ap­Mary's women are advised lie commented on wanting proximately 5'8", small to take all necessary precau­to meet this girl at Walsh build, clean shaven and in tions to ensure their safety. 

Indian invasion? 
Clad in the native dress of various cultures, students kicked off the Mu~icultural Festival with what ap­pears to be some sort of tribal dance at the Fieldhouse Mall yesterday. 
ND Student Senate votes to recognize gay/lesbian day 
By PETER AMEND follows: 
News Writer •Be it resolved that the Notre 
Dame Student Senate hopes to 
After an hour and a half of increase further awareness by 
vehement debate, the Student recognizing October 11, 1990. Senate voted 11-5 in favor of a as National Coming Out Day at resolution that acknowledges Notre Dame In recognition of Gay and Lesbian National Com­the problems and concerns ing Out Day. faced by gay and lesbian stu­
Joe Wilson, senator of Dis­dents. trict #4, presented the original However, many Senate mem­resolution to the Senate Mon­bers said this fourth stanza not day evening. The majority of only asks to reject negative the Senate immediately ac­attitudes and actions against cepted the first three stanzas of gay and lesbian persons, but the resolution, which are: also implies a public promotion 
•Be 
it resolved that the Stu­of homosexuality by the ND dent Senate of the University of Student Senate. Notre Dame, recognizing and Senior Class President, fully appreciating the Catholic Michael Shinneck, who voted nature of this University and all against the resolution, said that it represents, wholeheart­that "I am opposed to discrimi­edly condemns discrimination, nation, harassment and vio­harassment, and violence lence against any person....! against any person. believe that this resolution is 

•Recognizing 
that many stu­attempting to circumvent the dents on this campus often feel University's policy and the posi­the oppression that comes from tion of the Roman Catholic misinformation and misunder­Church by introducing official standing about the cultural, re­recognition of gays and les­ligious or sexual differences, bians at the University by lend­the Student Senate calls on the Ing the name of the Student Se­student body of this University nate to the name of the gay to stand up against any form of cause." violence, discrimination and harassment. This is how the resolution 

•The 
University of Notre stood in finality: Dame has attempted to in-•Be It resolved that the Uni­crease understanding, and versity of Notre Dame Student lessen misinformation through Senate recognizes that October such events as the Year of 11, 1990, is National Coming Women, the Year of Cultural Out Day In order to further the Diversity, Multi-Cultural Week awareness of the discrlmina­and Africa Week. tion, harassment, and violence 


However, the debate was fo-suffered by gay and lesbian cused on the fourth stanza, persons. which dealt with connection Student Body President Rob between a formal acceptance of Pasin, upon the passing of the National Coming Out Day and resolution, said, "The resolu­its relevance to the three prevl-tion addresses the Issue of ha­ous stanzas. rassment and discrimination on 
The fourth stanza, in the campus, not homosexual activ­original resolution, reads as ity, and therefore, I support it." 
Lecture gives glimpse of Arab perspective in 


monly shared feelings are those By MICHAEL MASONE • More on the Gulf I page 7 aimed at the U.S. government Nows Wnter and its involvement in the crisis. 
Matta called it a feeling ofIn a break from the Western 


"general apprehension," sinceperspective on the crisis In the historically the United StatesGulf, Notre Dame had a first has not proved to be a reliablehand chance to hear the Arab ally.
point of view on the situation Though Matta remained ob­yesterday at a lecture given by jective in his discussion, he didKhalll Matta. 
appear firm in the belief thatUnited States forces will re­the United States is involved inmain In the Persian Gulf for the Gulf for economic reasons years to come, predicted Matta above all others. He cautionedin his lecture yesterday. An as­U.S. citizens from accepting the sociate professor of manage­Khnlll Matta policy of Its government that itment, he gave the first of sev­is involved because of a "moral

and military strength he earns

eral "fireside chats" to be given concern" for the Kuwaitis orat LaFortune Student Center. credibihi..r. 
Saudi Arabians. 
On the other hand, some,

A native of Lebanon, Matta Matta was secure in his belief
such as the leaders of Egypt

believes tho United States will that the United States has astay in the Middle East as long and Syria, view Hussein as a definite "vested interest in a as It can stay, just as long as threat and reject the way he natural resource that belongsthere is no opposition here at treats his own people. Matta to the Arabs," and it wants tohome. Matta provided tho Arab refuted the idea that Hussein is secure itself of getting that re­perspective on several key Is­no more than a "crazed mad­source at a cheap price. 
sues on how the Arab world man who is picking interna­The United States gets overfeels about: tional fights." 
90 percent of its oil from its•Saddam Hussein As for this Invasion of own hemisphere, so it does not•the invasion of Kuwait Kuwait, again feelings are have much of an Interest in the •the U.S. Involvement In this mixed. Some view Kuwait oil available in the Middle East. 

merely as an extension of Iraq,

crisis. 
But, Matta contends, the

Feelings towards Hussein are and consider the Invasion "an strategic control of this oil andsplit among the people of the internal matter for the Iraqis the ability to regulate pricesArab world, said Matta. Some to solve." Some Arab nations would make the United States aview him as a hero who suc­are actually jealous of Kuwait, better economic competitor for cessfully defended the Arab na­whose Incredible wealth and the Germans and the Japanese. 
tions against Iran; he Is seen as small population leave it with It is this desire for the strategic a unifying force seeking to an extremely high standard of 
reestablish the old glory days living. 
see MATTA I page 3 

of the Arabs, and with victory But perhaps the most com­•
Operation Desert Shield 
r~rr-·~.~~·~ 
U.S Marines: Special operations forces: 
• Three Marine formations, more • Army, Navy and Air Force than 45,000 personnel peraonnel tnllned In 
unconventional warfare 

U.S Army: 
• Three heavy armored unite t8ctlcs IIUCh n sebohlglt 
h1 
U.S Alr Force: 
Forces from 20 other countries: 
• 
420 warplaMs deployed at • var'-ty of ground, air and about 30 batMa In and around naval fOf'Cn In the gulf from Saudi Arabia Brtteln, France, Egypt, Syria 

• 
Five U.S. and five Saudi AWACS and Morocco 





u.s. Navy: Additional U.S. ~round units beginning to arrive:
• 
About 50 v....,a, Including tour aircraft c:arrtwe, end a battleahlp • One regiment, four brigades, with 32 Tomahawk cruiM m ...n.. and a battalion, about 18,000 

• 
Hawkeye alrcl'llft almllar personMI, lind equipment, toAWACa Including hundreda of M1 

• 
An nttmated eight nucleer Abrama tanka and Bradley sulmw!Ma In the .,.. Fighting Vehicles 


AP/Cynthia Greer 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Law school: a cure for the Senior blues? 
Senior year? No problem. Time to hang out with friends, legally bar-hop, roadtrip to every away game, and breeze through my schedule of electives. 

Not so fast. There are just a few in­significant questions --·---·------­
which need to be cleared up ... such as, "What do I want to Jo with the rest of my life?" 
A job? Work?? Ugh -not the most appeal­ing option. As well, getting one entails more time and energy than I imagined. Career and Placement informs me that I must gather my life together, summarize it on a single sheet of paper and then make it sound exciting. 
But the best part is this 'Objective' -a one sentence explanation stating what type of job I am seeking as well as why I am seeking it, for each type of company in which inter­ests me. One problem: I have no idea Ht11AT interests me. 
So then I ask myself the most popular 
question on campus today-the one which 
provides a more attractive alternative (upon 
initial reflection) to jumping into the work­
ing world of responsibility as well as allow­
ing extensive procrastination in answering 
"What do I want to do with my life?" 
This question is none other than: "How 
about Law School?" 
I'll admit that applying to law school seemed to cater to my laziness in securing a job and sounded extremely comforting­monetarily speaking. 
In addition, my mind began to race ahead 
to the day of acceptance and my casual de­
cision to defer for a year while I traveled 
Europe or volunteered to work in Australia 
(sound familiar?). 
Reality began, however, to set in with my first encounter with a practice LSAT. Suffice it to say, I knew I was in trouble. Days, weeks, MONTHS were meant to be set aside 
to study religiously for this monster. Okay, so I have some days ... 
But then there's the Personal Statement (which must equal a literary masterpiece), recommendations (academic, of course), and applications which are easy to complete but cannot be sent until A and B (above) have also been completed. 
The clincher? When will I start on this Personal Statement? Answer: When I start any other kind of assignment -the night be­fore it's due. 
So, senior year? No problem?? When I do see my friends, we just complain about how busy we are; the bars represent enormous, unaffordable dollar signs; roadtrips waste weekends in which I must study diligently for the LSAT; and classes? 
Well, it's a good thing I finally bought that accounting book today ... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

(219)-239-7 4 71  
Today's  Staff:  
News Joe Moody  Sports Scott Brutocao  Systems Jon Stewart Gil Gomez  
Kevaleen Ryan  ScorebOBrd  
Frank Pastor  Graphics  
Accent  Mike Muldoon  
Jennifer Guerin  Production  
Paige Smoron  Beth Peterson  Circulation  
Janelle Harrigan  Christine Anderson  Kathleen O'Conner  
John O'Brian  
Ad  Design  VIewpoint  Alison Cocks  
Amy Eckert  Julie Shepherd  
Kathleen O'Connor  Jcsy Colucci  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fridav except during exam and vacation periods. ThE Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction ridhtr F.re rl-1:'!-t:;\.·cd. 
I 

'----··------··--------·--------' 
·~-----------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, October 2; 1990 
WEATHER 
70 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
® © ~ ~ [I] [;] ~x=x~ 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN 
T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Sharon Brannen of the Christian Appalachian Project Volunteer Program will be available in the CSC from 2 -5 p.m. at at the Volunteer Fair tonight. 
Saint Mary's Urban Plunge information night is tonight at 6:30 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. Come and find out about the 48-hour look into inner city problems which is held over Christmas break in metropolitan areas near you. Past student participants 
will  be  there  to  answer  questions  and  tell  of their  
experiences.  
An  intra-squad  varsity  hockey  game  

will be held on Oct. 8 at 7 p.m. in the JACC. There will also be performances by Jill Trenary, Christopher Bowman; dance teams Susan Wynne and Joseph Gruar, Sharon Carz and Doug Williams. In addition there will be appear­ances on ice by Lou Holtz, Dorothy Hamill, Richard Rosenthal and hockey coach Ric Schaefer. 
Donate your Stanford football tickets so the clients of Logan Center can see.. the game in person. Drop off your tickets at the dining halls this Wednesday, Thursday or Friday at dinner or put them in the CSC mailbox for Logan Center, 444 Lewis Hall or 187 Dillon. For more information call Janet 284-5090 or Sally at 283-3783. 
Patrick Wright, a world renowned playwright, was reported to have died on Sunday, October 1. He was residing in Sydney, Australia at the time of his demise. White is remembered for hav­ing become the first Australian to claim the Nobel Prize. He was awarded this honor in 1973 for his achieve­ments in the area of literature, specifi 
cally for his critically acclaimed novel "Eye of the Storm." The fruits of his lifetime exemplify that of one of the most 
influencial figures in the literary world. 
CAMPUS 

A Saint Mary's student was attacked Thursday evening in the B-2 parking lot across from the Hesburgh Library, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. The report received by Security said the student was at­tacked at approximately 8:15p.m. Her arms were scraped from her wrists to her biceps by an unidentified instrument. Hurley said the attack was not a sexual assault and that the victim could not identify the attacker. 
WORLD 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index  
172.22  ..  4.37  
S&P Composite  
314.94  •  8.89  

Dow Jones Industrials 2,515.84 +63.36 Precious Metals Gold +$15.90 to $386.60/oz. Sliver +12.1 ¢ to $ 4.64/oz. 
Jean Kilbourne, an internationally recognized au­thority on the media, addictions, and sex roles will dis­cuss the effects of alcohol advertising Oct. 10 at 7:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. The lecture entitled "Under the Influence," is sponsored by the Uni­versity of Notre Dame's office of alcohol and drug educa­tion and Saint Mary's College. 
There Will be a runoff in the Saint Mary's Fresh­man elections on Tuesday after Tracy McDonald received 
49.7 percent and Nedro Dwyer received 49 percent. 
High school tutors are still available to help lower elementary children with homework. For information, call Betsy at 284-4441. 
All geographic club. presidents must report their officers names and events for the upcoming year to the Alumni Association at 239-6000. All clubs must be recognized by the Alumni Association in order to sponsor bus rides and/or moving vans. 
Students are invited to come to the esc to personally talk and receive information from 45 different volunteer program recruiters tonight from 7 -10 p.m. 
Thousands of people, from alcoholics to soldiers, are slogging through the nation's potato fields in a race to salvage the rotting crop and save Muscovites from a hungry winter. Joining the forced laborers in the muddy trenches of what the press has dubbed "the potato front" are volunteers who are lending a hand so they can carry home a sack or two of the starchy staple that has vanished from store shelves in the capital. Students and soldiers were drafted into the harvest weeks ago, and leaders of Moscow's regional government invited city dwellers to go to nearby collective and state farms to help dig potatoes -with an option to buy them at low prices. 
ALMANAC 
On October 2: 
eln 1941 : German armies began Operation Typhoon -an all-out drive against Moscow. 
eln 1959: The television program "The Twilight Zone" made its debut on CBS. 
eln 1967: Thurgood Marshall was sworn in as an associate justice of the 
U.S. Supreme Court-the first black so 
appointed. eln 1985: Actor Rock Hudson died at his Beverly Hills, Calif., home at age 59 after battling the deadly disease AIDS. 
• Ten years ago: u.s. 
Representative Michael "Ozzie" Myers, D-Pa., convicted of accepting a bribe in the FBI's ABSCAM sting operation, was expelled from the House, becoming the first congressman ousted by his col­leagues since the outbreak of the Civil 
War. 


Yesterday's high: 67 Yesterday's low: 41 Nation's high: 101 
(Taft, Calif.) Nation's low: 25 (Pinedale, Wyo.) 
Forecast: Mostly sunny today with highs in the low 70s. In­creasing cloudiness tonight with lows in the low 50s. Tomorrow mostly cloudy and windy with a 50% chance of showers and a highs in the low 70s. 


Tuesday, October 2, 1990 
A desperate call
• 

Pope John Paul II in an intensive mood during the solemn Mass he celebrated Sunday marking the start of the World Synod. The month long assembly was called to revitalize the priesthood in the wake of a "burnout" to vocational life and challenges to celibacy. 
Matta 
continued from page 1 
control of oil, rather than any Idealistic moral stance, that the United States has such a large force In the Gulf. 
Besides this desire for strategic control of the world's oil supply, Matta said, the U.S. is also involved in the Gulf in order to salvage itself from the clutches of imminent recession. "War," said Matta, "is very stimulating to the economy of a country." And finally, the third reason Matta provided for the 
U.S. Involvement was its fear that Iraq would at some point 
AP Photo 
in the future pose a serious threat to Israel. 
Matta refuted the claim that the United States is always "morally justified" in their ac­tions, as if it is the "agent of God on this earth." Matta, while remaining objective him­self, seemed to be calling for more open-mindedness on the part of Americans to the views of others. 
Economic sanctions would work, but they take time, and Matta believes that U.S. foreign policy is not very patient. "I would rather see economic 
than a military 
confrontation. Matta 

VIP BLUE AND GOLD CARDS 
The Observer page 3 
Sandusky shares artistic experience 
By RENEE YOUNG News Writer 
Reality and instinct were two of the items discussed yesterday by Billy Ray Sandusky in his lecture "One Painter's Perspec­tive." 
Sandusky is an assistant professor in the art department of Saint Mary's where he teaches drawing, painting and print making. 
His talk traced his path to the intellectual and art community. From grade school he found escape in art. He attended high school and graduate school in Indianapolis and New Orleans. According to Sandusky, in art school the only way to look good was to make everyone 

Saint Mary's starts autumn with 'Fall Fest' 
ByTASHATIGHT News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Student Ac­tivities Board is sponsoring a week filled with activities to kick off the autumn season ti­tled "Fall Fest" which began Sunday and will continue throughout the week. 
Today the festivities continue with a t-shirt tie dye session starting at 4:30 p.m. on the li­brary green. In the evening Martin Sikora, a folk singer, will be entertaining the crowd at Club Tuesday in Haggar Col­lege Center from 9 -11 p.m. Coordinator Sheila Gaughan said "We hope everyone will 
United States "the blood of its children." He wonders if Ameri­cans are prepared for this real­ity. 

Matta's prevailing message was a yearning for a pea.::eful solution to the matter. His f~el­ing is that the longer the United States remains in the Gulf, the more hostility that will arise. 
In the event of war, Matta claims, any tactics, no matter how outrageous, can be em­ployed. "We need to look at the human perspective," pleads Matta. "Instead of focusing on resources, we need to focus on people .. .l don't think it's possi­ble now at this point to sit Bush and Hussein down and say, 'Shake on it'... But before we send our F-15s to bomb cities and kill innocent people, let's give peace a chance." 
look bad--they were tough standards, one-hundred started the program, twelve graduated. 
During the sixties, Sandusky had a hard time justifying making art with the hard times on the streets. But he contin­ued with it, eventually moving to Italy where he worked and studied for seven years. 
He came to Saint Mary's where he considers teaching as, "trying to get out of them (students) what is inside them and giving them the space to do it." As to the work of his stu­dents, the undergraduate art work at Saint Mary's compares to that in most graduate schools. 
A faculty member since 1980, Sandusky recently received first 
come participate in the fun and bring a friend." 
All day Wednesday students from both campuses are en­couraged to find the biggest leaf on campus and enter it in the "Big Leaf Contest." Stu­dents should drop off a leaf in front of Haggar College Center to try and win a gift certificate for dinner at Macri's. A faculty vs. student softball game will be played at the SMC field at 4 p.m 
An international dinner will be held on Thursday from 6-8 
p.m.. Food from many different nations will be served. Subway, Pizza Hut, Senor Kelly's, and other local restaurants are of-
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, SEPT. 
27 
2:20 p.m. A resident of Stanford Hall reported that he had his bike stolen from the bike rack at O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
2:25 p.m. A resident of Dillon Hall reported that his bike was stolen from the bike rack between Dillon and Alumni Halls. 3:3S p.m. A University of Notre Dame employee reported vandalism to her car while parked in the B-16 Jot. 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 28 
9:07 a.m. A resident of Pasquerilla West reported that she had received a harassing phone call. 
8:58 p.m•. A Saint Mary'~ student w<~o• assa11lted in the B-2 parking lot by a suspect with a weapon. 
TO:First 200 students (with I.D.) attending Notre Dame I Wichita State Baseball Game at Covaleski Stadium on Friday, October 5th at 8:30pm. 
TO:First 200 students (with I.D.) attending the Notre Dame I LSU volleyball game at the JACC on Saturday, October 6th at 7:30pm. 
® 

MAXWELL HOUSE COFFEE VIP BLUE AND GOLD CARDS 
All benefits of a regular Blue and Gold Card holder (except the three drawings for athletic tickets) Free Maxwell House ~ Coffee I Notre Dame14 oz. coffee mug 
.!j) 

Free Maxwell House coffee at the Huddle during the month of November by showingVIP card and student I.D. 
® 

Free Crystal Light at the Huddle during the month of April by showing VIP card and student I.D. Free drawings for VIP members only throughout the year for: 
Chicago Bulls Basketball Tickets 

~ 
ni!.m•,•~r
Free Limo Service and Dinner at Eli's Place for Steak in Chicago 
II' 0 F F E ill
One free round trip ticket to Spring Break 

e"It bringsout the best in all of us:· 
United \Yay 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 
29 

2:05 p.m. A University of Notre Dame employee reported that her B-1 decal had been stolen from her car. 
3:30 p.m. A resident of Morrissey Hall reported the theft of his bike trom the Morrissey Hall bike rack. 
4:40 p.m. A resident of Lewis Hall reported the theft of several articles from her room. 
6:30 p.m. A resident of Cavanaugh Hall reported the theft of the hub caps from his car in the D-2 parking lot. 
SUNDAY, SEPT. 30 
1:04 a.m. A resident of Pangborn Hall reported that he was assaulted by a man who had a~ked the victim if he wanted a ride in his car. 
fering different cuisines. Later that evening a happy hour for those 21 and over will start in the SMC Clubhouse. 
The week's celebration comes to a close on Friday with a snack break and picture frame giveaway from 11:30 a.m. -1 
p.m. at Haggar College Center. 
All students are encouraged to attend all of the activities. SAB Representative Wendy Kemp said, "we hope all the time and effort the board con­tributed will pay off by having full student participation." 
The fest opened with a school mass celebrated in the Church of Loretto 
place in the Fine Arts Category 
in the Air Brush Competition. 
The competition Nas sponsored 
by AJrbrush Action magazine in 
whkh '.l.n c.rticle on him will 
soon <!pf.v;J.L 
About his w1rk, which is pri­
marily abstract expressionism, 
Sandusky believes that there 
are different realities for dif­
ferent people--people see their 
own and all can co-exist, but no 
one can ever clearly see what is 
going on. 
Currently Sandusky is also on 

exhibit at the South Bend Art 
Center till October 14. 
The third in the Life of the Mind lecture series will be con­ducted by Corrine McGuigan, chairperson and associate rro­fessor of education 




Earn
.. 


while you learn. 
Manpower is looking lor students interested in earning great pay -plus commissions. We offer flexible hours. And valuable training and business experience Plus tree use of a personal computer. 

II you're a lull-time student. Sophomore or above. with at least a B average and are computer familiar. Manpower needs you as a COLLEGIATE REP to pmmote the sales ol the IBM Personal System/2 on campus. 
For experience that pays, call today 
Manpower, Inc. 320 W. LaSalle Ave. 234-0157 Contact: Kim Hall 


Tuesday, October 2, 1990

page 4 The Observer 


New taxes to hit beer-drinkers and smokers 
WASHINGTON (AP) Poorer, younger, non-urban families, who generally spend a greater share of their earnings on gasoline, cigarettes and beer than do other groups, would be hit hardest by tax increases in the new deficit-reduction plan. 
Other parts of the plan target fliers; state and local govern­ment employees; workers whose wages exceed $51,300; taxpayers with incomes over $100,000, and anyone with a taste for expensive cars, furs and jewels. 
There's also a a brand new 2­cent-per-gallon tax on all kinds of refined petroleum products -gasoline again, home-heating oil, diesel -that are not used in farming or manufacturing. 
Just in case anyone is left out, the plan calls for the Internal Revenue Service to step up au­dits and collections enough to squeeze an extra $9.4 billion out of reluctant taxpayers over the next five years. 
But unlike the 13 other tax increases that have been en­acted since 1981, the impact this proposal will have on indi­viduals at various income levels is hard to determine. That is because it contains no broad changes in income taxes but relies instead on a potpourri of excise taxes and on payroll taxes that affect relatively few people. 
There is little question, how­ever, that excise taxes on such commodities as fuel, alcohol and tobacco have a greater im­pact on lower-income people. 
Earlier this year, the Con­gressional Budget Office found that: 
•American families as a group spend 2. 7 percent of after-tax income on gasoline, 
1.1 percent on tobacco and 2 percent for liquor, wine and beer. 
•The poorest 20 percent, with after-tax income averaging $8,200-spent 6.9 percent for gasoline, 4 percent on tobacco and 3.7 percent for alcohol. 
•The 20 percent just below the richest,. with income averaging $38,000 after taxes, spent 2.9 percent for gasoline, 
1.1 percent for tobacco and 2.2 percent for alcohol. 
Significantly, families headed by a person under the age of 30 spent a greater share of their incomes on all three commodi­ties than did other age groups. The under-30 families, for ex­ample, spent 3.4 percent of dis­posable income for gasoline; those headed by someone 75 or older spent 1.6 percent. 
Rural dwellers spend 29 per­cent more for gasoline as do Northeasterners. Southerners pay more than Westerners. 
Here are some major parts of the tax plan, which congres­sional leaders hope will become law this month: 
ENERGY: The present federal gasoline tax of 9 cents a gallon would rise by 5 cents Dec. 1 and another 5 cents next July 1. 
On Jan. 1, a 2-cent-a-gallon tax on most refined petroleum products, including gasoline and home-heating oil, would take effect. Almost 94 percent of families buy gasoline. 
TOBACCO: The 16-cent-a­pack tax on cigarettes would rise 4 cents on Jan. 1 and an­other 4 cents two years later. Taxes on cigars, chewing to­bacco and snuff would be in­creased at each step by 25 per­cent. About 46 percent of Americans use tobacco. 
ALCOHOL: About 71 percent of taxpayers would be affected. The tax on hard liquor, now $12.50 for a gallon of 100 proof (50 percent alcohol) would rise to $14, up 30 cents for a fifth. Lower-proof liquor would go up by the same ratio. The tax on beer, now 16 cents for a six-pack, would double. Most wines also would face higher taxes. The 3-cent tax on a fifth of table wine would rise to 25 cents. 
AIRLINE TICKETS: More than 1.2 million passengers fly each day. The 8 percent tax would rise to 10 percent. On the average round-trip ticket, cost­ing about $300, the tax would go up about $6. 
LUXURIES: A 10 percent lux­ury tax would apply to the por­tion of the sales price of certain commodities above certain thresholds. For cars, the threshold would be $30,000; for private boats, $100,000; for jewelry and furs, $5,000. For example, the buyer of a $35,000 car would pay a tax of $500 (10 percent of $5,000). 
ITEMIZED DEDUCTIONS: A couple or individual with ad­justed gross income above $100,000 could continue to deduct all allowable medical expenses and investment inter­est expense. But they would have to reduce other deductions by $3 for each $100 that their income exceeds $100,000. 

Campus Ministry and You 0MPUS MINISTRY Celebrate the Feast of Saint Francis of Assisi Thursday, October 4, 1990 5:00pm • • Eucharist Stanford -Keenan Chapel Rev. Dan Kroger, OSF, Presider Prof. Larry Cunningham, Homilist Music provided by the Notre Dame Women's Choir 6:00pm • • Simple Meal Provided at the Center for Social Concerns 7:30pm • • University Vigil for Peace Meet at the War Memorial Candlelight procession from the Memorial to the Grotto  Jim Wallis of Sojourners magazine writes: "As Sojourners approaches its 20th Anniversary, I'm reminded of what things were like when we began in the fall of 1971. We were seminary students in Chicago, and our nation was in great turmoil and pain. The war in Vietnam was raging, polarizing the country and creating massive casualties everyday. Our cities were erupting in violence, and America's racial divide had created two separate nations -one black and one white. the gulf between rich and poor at home and around the world was widening. "The response of the Church to all of this agony was a deafening silence. Many conservatives said religion shouldn't become involved with politics-­while all the while supporting war, ignoring racism and justifying tremendous inequalities of wealth and power. Many liberals expressed social concern but failed to demonstrate how faith itself related directly to the crisis we were facing at the time. This became our (Sojourners) vocation... to show how a prophetic biblical faith provided a foundation upon which to act and create the new visions of justice, compassion and peace that we so urgently need! "You and I now stand at a critical historical moment. Great challenges confront us. But now, members of the Christian community are taking a stand, are dynamically involved in the process of social changes, and are playing key leadership roles in the exciting work of transformation." Jim might be too kind, saying those words to someone privileged enough to be a part of perhaps the most influential Roman Catholic institution in the country. One could fairly expect the membership of Notre Dame to be fully engaged in playing leadership roles in the exciting work of transformation. But are we? Are we taking a stand? On what? What stand, if so? Is it s!ngle-issue oriented or woven out of a thorough understanding. of and commitment to the social teachings of our church? Are we dynamically involved in the process of social change, or would we prefer none would exist? And if we are involved, how is that involvement supported? Are we on our own, with just a few friends, or do we find the University community to be a supportive, challenging and sustaining presence in our lives? Jim Wallis continues: "To be sure, we still are engaged In a struggle for the Church's very soul. Will the institutional churches cling to caution, comfort and the lowest common denominator of church membership? Or will the churches heed the dynamic voices in their midst, calling us to be the community of Jesus' followers, giving its life for the sake of the world? 'The answers to these questions are far from clear. In the wider public arena we are being held accountable by choices of the past and we are being called to choose a new direction. One path ahead will produce more environmental devastation, economic polarizati"n, racial and national conflict and the marginalization of poor and forgotten people. "The other path of faith and commitment promises the expansion of human rights, the fulfillment of democracy's promises, the renewal of the earth and the inclusion of those who have been left behind." A couple of events this week will focus on ways the church community at Notre Dame can play a key leadership role in inspiring which direction its members might go. A couple of these events are being sponsored by groups that include Campus Ministry: Wednesday night at 7:00 pm on the Fieldhouse Mall (Washington Hall if it rains), Judy Gorman will be kicking off the Year of Women for the University. Judy's concerns are multiple, which makes her an ideal choice for kicking off the year. She's known for her folk and gospel singing. She is a feminst­environmentalist-peacemaker whose concerns are global. Her songs speak about love and aging, of how "Rainbows are complete circles, we see only half" and of how international solidarity is within reach. She doesn't perform; she inspires. Judy will also be doing a workshop on the role of women in music. That will be held at the multi-purpose room of the Center for Social Concerns Thursday afternoon at 4:15 pm. After that on Thursday -which is also the feast of St. .Francis of Assisi -the University's celebration of peace continues. A Eucharist will be held at the Stanford-Keenan Chapel, followed by a simple meal at the CSC. Then, at 7:30 pm, a vigil for peace will begin at the peace memorial and will include a candlelight procession to the Grotto. Men and women who attended Notre Dame in the late sixties and early seventies often comment on how influential the music and demonstrations of that period were in forming their own consciousness and bemoan the loss of such opportunities for reflective consciousness formation for today's students. October 3 ai\d 4 becomes a time to fully change that impression. See you there!  


Tuesday, October 2, 1990 The Observer 
CLC creates policy concerning bar bands 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 
Student bands performing at off-campus bars should be al­lowed to advertise on campus, and students should be notified of security incidents on cam­pus, said members of the Cam­pus Life Council Monday (CLC). 
A resolution drawn up by Student Body President Rob Pasin and Raja Singh, student government legal department executive coordinator, called for the reinstatement of last year's policy concerning the is­sue. 
This policy allowed the post­ing of such advertisements, as long as the focus of the flyers was on the band's performance and not on the establishment itself or the fact that alcohol would be served. This practice was changed this summer by the Office of Student Affairs, and these advertisements were banned, according to the CLC resolution. 
The policy was changed be­cause it conflicted with another university policy prohibiting 
bars from advertising on cam­
pus. While bands are mainly 
promoting their performance, 
they are also promoting the 
establishment. 
Pasin and Singh's resolution 
pointed out that playing in bars 
is the most practical arrange­
ment for bands, since the stu­
dents have limited resources 
and facilities in which to per­
form. Advertisements are criti­
cal to the band's success, ac­
cording to the resolution. 
Moreover, the resolution pointed out that participation in and performances by student bands is a vital component of campus social life. Since both the performances and the flyers are consistent with the alcohol and advertisement policies of DuLac, there is no reason to prohibit the promotion of band performances in establishments 
serving alcohol. 
The CLC considered other so­lutions to the problem. The em­phasis of the flyers on the bars could be diminished by reducing the size of the name of the bar on the flyer or by printing only the address of the establish­

ment rather than the name. 
It was also suggested that these events be sponsored by the junior or senior classes or that it be stressed on the flyers that the event is open only to those over the age of 21 in order to avoid the problem of promoting drinking by minors. 
No conclusion was reached 
concerning the resolution. 
The council also addressed 
the issue of the notification of 
students concerning campus 
security problems. According to 
one council members. there is 
great concern about how stu­
dents are notified when there 
are attacks or muggings on 
campus. 
Common procedure requires security to notify hall rectors who should, in turn, notify stu­dents of students of security in­cidents. This practice is incon­sistent, since some dorms are not notified and some rectors do not announce the incidents, according to the council. 
The issue was left unresolved. 

Young members of the Uruguayan Jewish community clean the swastikas painted on tombstones of a Jewish cemetery in La Paz. Nazi Germany claimed the lives of over 6 million Jews during World War II. 
(FOOD FOR THOUGHT ABOUT ACAREER IN ADVERTISING) 
Advertising demands a keenly educated mind. One instilled with curiosity, inspiration, and the vision to see what others don't .. 
If you like problem-solving for the fun of it, want. your ideas heard, and thrive on responsibility, competition, and hard work-it may be right for you. 
Hear what some Notre Dame grads think about life in a very special kind of advertising agency. 
MBA's
Undergrads 

Monday, Oct. 8
Thursday, Oct. 4 

7:00pm6:00pm 
Upper lnunge,
Senior Bar 

University Club 
P.S. There really will he free apples! 

Leo Burnett Company, lnr. 35 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60601 

Wf' work for lht'M' grt'll dlenl!l A lbuatr, Amun1l, Hln<"k ill tf><"kt>r, Cnmmonwealth Edlsclll, [)c!an Wltler, fo'h~t Rnmdt, (ienel'.i Moton, <iret"nGiant. Hallmark Canl5, H.J llranz, flelnz Pet Pmduet.s, Krebler, Kf'lk111K's, Knr.ftGt>nenr.ltbod&, Mcl>onald'~~o, Md>tmakl'~tOwnc>r.-ofChll'ago4andand Nort.hwt>ltt Indiana, Mllk-r Drewlng, PhillpMurrl•, Noxell, J•JUshury, r•ruclrr.tGamblr, Sam110mte, Schenley, &aly, :WWn·Up, Ml"!!. Smlth'M, StarKhn Sfoafood, Tto!Mt·ana, llnocal76, llmtt"d Airlines 

pagE 5 ..·~ 

APPhoiD

Using what she has 
An Indian refugee using a plastic cut in half as a water holder washes fruit outside her tent in the Azraq refugee Saturday. Nearby a distribution of kitchen utensils ended up in a free for all, so not all the refugees received kitchen ware. 
Germans get ready to party for unification amidst protest 
WEST BERLIN (AP) -Ger­mans on Monday got ready for the nation's party of the cen­tury -a celebration of unity that could be disrupted by thousands of radical street fighters in Berlin. 
In Hamburg, West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl said the powerful new country will have to take on a greater inter­national role. 
"Everyone must know that there is no withdrawing into a comfortable niche of world politics," Kohl told a conven­tion of his Christian Demo­cratic Union. 
In other developments: 
•East 
German authorities be­gan releasing some prisoners under an amnesty program de­signed to make amends for sen­tences imposed by the Commu­nist system. 

•The 
U.S. commandant, Maj. Gen. Raymond Haddock, for­mally deactivated his West Ber­lin command at a ceremony at­tended by top-ranking diplo­mats and his two Allied coun­terparts, Maj. Gen. Robert J.S. Corbett of Britain and Maj. Gen. Francois Cann of France. 

•Tens 
of thousands of Poles flooded into West Berlin, on one last, wild shopping spree before visa requirements are imposed on unification day. 


When the clock strikes mid­night Tuesday, the two German states will become a single, sovereign nation, ending more than 45 years of postwar sepa­ration. 
What started with church­sponsored protests in the gritty 
Department of American Studies FIRST WEDNESDAY FORUM: 
THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE 
RONALD DORRIS 
Assistant Professor ofAmerican Studies 
DELTA PYRAMID: THE LEVEE AS A CULTURAL CONSTRUCT 
October 3, 1990 3:30p.m. DEClO 131 
Refreshments will be served . 
East German industrial city of 
Leipzig last year has led to the 
merger many had considered 
only a nostalgic dream. 
The result: an economic pow­
erhouse of nearly 78 million 
people in the heart of Europe. 
Kohl is given much of the credit for bringing about unifi­cation less than 11 months after the opening of the Berlin Wall. The chancellor was able to calm Polish and Soviet fears enough to remove potentially sticky obstacles coming from the East. That included an unusual agreement to let Soviet troops stay in what is now East Germany until 1994. 
At the same time, Kohl joined with President Francois Mitter­rand of .:ranee in pledging an even greater push for European integration in the West. 
Kohl will lead the celebrations starting Tuesday night in front of the Reichstag, the historic German parliament building that still bears the scars of fighting between Soviet and German soldiers at the end of World War II. 
Beer will flow and fireworks will light up the night sky. 
Police were bracing for trou­ble from thousands of leftist and rightist radicals. 
The mass-circulation Bild newspaper said that 10,000 leftists were expected to go on a rampage, breaking store windows and looting merchan­dise. Police fear they will clash with rightists who have also vowed to march through Berlin. 


Religious freedom law is triumphant in USSR 


giant wheel? 
COMMUNICATION & THEATRE 

BDO SEIDMAN still offers the opportunities for growth,
~ PRESENTS 

learning and advancement you hoped for when making your decision to pursue an accounting career.~~TROJAN We're big enough (42 U.S. offices plus global coverage through BDO Binder, our international firm) to present afast


§WOMEN 
growth track, broad diversity of middle market clients BY EURIPIDES and ahigh profile marked by stability. Our management style and entrepreneurial atmosphere ensure talented 
WASHINGTON HALL lABORATORY THEATRE 
graduates genuine opportunity for individual achievement 
DIRECTOR 

and recognition. And you'11 regularly benefit from personal
REGINALD BAIN 

contact with and guidance by our partners.
SET & LIGHTS 
KEVIN DREYER 

Find out about starting your career with BDO SEIDMAN, 
COSTUMES RICHARD DONNELLY 
afirm that can offer you the potential 
B DQ 

of areally "big" future.
STAGE MANAGER TONY Bosco 

Contact your placement center now and arrange for an interview SEIDMAN
TICKETS: $5, $4 STU/SEN CIT, WED THU &SUN AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT LAFORTUNE TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD/VISA Helping Clients Succeed:m 
ORDERS CALL 239-8128 Internationally BOO Binder 
THURS.. OCT. 4 8:10PM FRIDAY. OCT. 5 8:10PM SAT., OCT. 6 8:10PM SUN., OCT. 7 3:10PM WED.. OCT. 10 8:10PM THURS., OCT. 11 8:10PM FRIDAY. OCT. 12 8:10PM SAT.. OCT. 13 8:10PM SUN .. OCT. 14 3:10PM 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet legislature gave final approval Monday to a law on freedom of religion, then began debating a bill that would reduce the influ­ence of atheism's strongest ad­vocate, the Communist Party. 
Together, the measures would give the force of law to two of the key reforms intro­duced by President Mikhail Gorbachev: tolerance for reli­gion and competition for the party. 
The Supreme Soviet approved the law on freedom of religion by a vote of 341-2, with no ab­stentions. It forbids the gov­ernment from interfering in the practice of religion, formally ending decades of repression. 
"This is a law that affects millions of people ... and a ma­jor step forward for democ­racy," the legislature's presi­dent, Anatoly Lukyanov, said after the vote. 
Debate is scheduled to con­tinue Tuesday on a proposed law on public organizations, in­cluding trade unions and politi­cal parties. It would set proce­dures for forming new parties and guarantee them equal rights with the Communist Party. 
It would also limit the influ­
ence of any party, including the 
Communists, on the armed 
forces, police and KGB. 
"People in military service 
and holding positions in law 
enforcement organizations 
shall suspend active political 
participation in parties," the 
proposed law says. 
In the past, the Communist 
Party has kept a tight grip on 
the armed forces and law en­
forcement agencies -and 
through them, on the entire 
country. 
Yuri Kalmykov, head of the 
legislative committee that 
drafted the bill, said it would 
allow soldiers, police officers 
and KGB agents to remain 
Communist Party members, but 
they would have to stop taking 
orders from the party. 
The law would also strike at the Communist Party's privi­leged position in other govern­ment agencies, eliminating party membership as a condi­tion of employment. 
"A citizen's participation or non-participation in the activity of a (political party) cannot serve as grounds for limiting his rights and freedoms, includ­ing holding a position in a state organization," the proposed law says. 
It adds that the government shall not provide "any sort of privileges or advantages" to employees simply because they are party members. 
The 17 million-member Com­munist Party agreed early this year to surrender its constitu­tional hold on power. Since then, many smaller parties have arisen, including the pro-re­form groups Democratic Plat­form and Democratic Union in Moscow and various nationalist organizations such as Rukh in the Ukraine, Berlik in Uzbek­istan and Sajudis in Lithuania. AP Photo 
The new law would provide the first guarantee of equal rights for the new parties and establish procedures for them to register with the national 
Thousand of marchers held a peaceful demonstration on Sunday seeking greater independence from Moscow. The protesters including Ukrainian miners held up a coffin with a painted slogan that said "good­bye Soviet Union." 
Ukrainians march against Communism 
government. 

MOSCOW (AP) -Tens of
The 452-member legislature voted in principle Wednesday to thousands of Ukrainian na­approve the law on religion, but tionalists marched to parlia­
ment in the capital of Kiev onmet again Monday to resolve a Monday and chanted slogansdisagreement over a clause al­against the Communist Partylowing the use of school build­and the republic's leaders, wit­ings for religious classes after nesses and news reports said. 
regular hours. 

One-day warning strikes idled After lengthy debate, the factories in the more radicallawmakers decided to remove western Ukraine, but many en­the clause. The decision was a 
terprises in Kiev continued
defeat for Patriarch Alexi II, working, according to officialhead of the Russian Orthodox Soviet media. 
Church, who had told the law­makers that, "If we remove this Opposition members of thepart of the law today, we would republic's Supreme Soviet, orbe taking a step backward in arliament, walked out of the
our democratic development." Ukrainian legislator Sergei Ryabchenko argued that allow­
ing schools to be used for reli­gious classes could raise ten­sions in some areas, such as 
Why the Mega-Mergersthe western Ukraine, where there is conflict between Ukrainian Catholic and Russian 

have created an opportunity
Orthodox churches. After the Bolshevik revolu­tion, the Communists seized 
for you at BDO Seidman. some church property and as­sets and prohibited the teaching of religion. They converted some churches into factories and established an officially You look forward to starting your career with an estab­atheist society. 
Since Gorbachev came to lished "name" firm where you can learn and grow by 
power in 1985, official toler­
ance for religion has grown becoming immersed in several aspects of the clients'business. 
dramatically. Churches confis­
cated by the government have But you're alittle apprehensive about your chances as a 
been reopened, Jews have been 
new graduate with amega-firm. Can you fully develop
allowed to hold Hebrew classes, 
state-run television has broad­your skills in ahighly structured environment? Can you
cast holiday church services, 
and government propaganda make apositive impact among the sheer numbers of multi­
..,.ainst religion has subsided. 
national staff? Or will you become just another cog in a 
session, which opened Monday, after its Communist majority upheld a decree banning rallies in front of the parliament building, Soviet TV reported. 
The national evening TV news program "Vremya" showed scenes of pushing and shoving on the floor of parliament as some of the opposition deputies brought in the nationalist blue and gold flag of r•e Ukraine, and some briefly tried to block access to the podium. 
• I I I . I • 
II • , I ' I I I' I 
racy Rukh movement, said 
workers at the Arsenal ma­chine-building plant, a motor­cycle plant and a shoe factory carried out a one-day warning strike in support of the demon­strators. Some taxi drivers and trolley bus drivers also went on strike, according to the inde­pendent Interfax news service. 
BUY IT FOR "TilE CAUSE" 
Accounting Grads 

----------,
.------------------------...---~~----------------------~ -­
Tuesday, October 2, 1990 The Observer page 7 
Israel prepares for war, Bush suggests withdrawal 
Israel to distribute gas masks 
JEHUSALEM (API -Israel will start distributing gas masks to its entire population of 4.7 million citizens next week following Iraqi threats to at­tack the Jewish state with ehnmical weapons, the army announced Monday. 
Each kit contains a gas mask, a syringe with a nerve gas anti­dote and purifying powder. In­structions will be in Hebrew, Arabic, English and Russian. 
The announcement followed assessments of an increased threat of war in the Persian Gulf and foreign reports sug­gesting that Israel has decided to absorb Iraq's possible first strike without taking preemp­tive action. 
Distribution was advanced by two months and ended a heated public debate. Chief of Staff Lt. G1m. Dan Shomron said Sunday it was originally planned to is­sue gas masks in December. 
Officials had feared an im­mediate distribution of gas masks could panic the Israelis or send Iraq an incorrect mes­sage that Israel planned an at­tack. 
The army sought to allay public concern, saying "distribution of gas masks in no way whatsoever constitutes a c~~nge to an emergency sta­tus. 
"The purpose ... is to trans­fer the kits to citizens' homes to shorten the time of distribu­tion, should a need arise." 
Army spokesman Brig. Gen . Nachman Shai maintained the distribution plan was developed long before the gulf crisis, and other officials say Iraqi Presi­dent Saddam Hussein is unlikely to attack Israel, but that his actions are unpredictable. 
The spokesman said sealed gas mask kits will be dis­tributed next week in three towns in the center of Israel, the Negev desert and the north. Starting Oct. 15, kits will be handed out at schools through­out Israel. beginning with cities and expanding to rural areas.
·­

Eugene B. Clark 
Executive Lecture Series 
College of Business 



UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­President Bush said Monday that Iraq and its leaders must be held liable for "crimes of abuse and destruction" in the takeover of Kuwait. But he also suggested to Baghdad that an unconditional military with­drawal could help speed an end to the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
Bush, in a speech before the 
U.N. General Assembly, said all nations hope that military force will not be required to drive Iraq from Kuwait. Yet, he won applause by vowing anew that Iraq's annexation of Kuwait "will not be allowed to stand." 
Praising the U.N.'s resolve, Bush said, "This challenge is a test we cannot afford to fail. I am confident we will prevail." 
Administration 
Frances Hesselbein is an internationally recognized nonprofit administrator. She is currently President and CEO of the Peter F. Drucker Foundation for Nonprofit Management. Ms. Hesselbein is also Chairman of the Board of Governors of the 
Josephson Institute for the Advancement of Ethics. 
She served as Chief Executive Officer of the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. from 1976 to 1990. In a cover 
story praising her many 
accomplishments, Business Week said "she is one of the 
growing number of leaders 
in the nonprofit world who 
can teach a thing or two to 
corporate executives." 
•

gtng 
ADWORKS 

Even as Bush was speaking, sign that treaty during a trip to 
the White House announced the Moscow in December but said 
United States was sending two Shevardnadze talked about 
batteries of Patriot air-defense completing the agreement early 
missiles to Israel on an emer-next year. if not by the end of 
gency basis. 1990. 
The weapons will help Israel Shevardnadze praised Bush's 
defend against an increased speech as "brilliant." 
threat from ballistic missiles in Aside from his hard-edged 
Iraq, presidential spokesman rhetoric, Bush appeared to try 
Marlin Fitzwater said. to undercut Iraqi President 
Nearly every seat in the Gen-• Saddam Hussein's demand that 
era! Assembly hall was full as his territorial dispute with 
Bush combined a blistering in-Kuwait be linked to Arab de­
dictment of Iraq with an over-mands that Israel give up terri­
lure for Baghdad to end the tory lost by Syria and Jordan in 
two-month old Persian Gulf cri-the 1967 Mideast war. 
sis. Bush said that "I truly believe 
"Iraq's unprovoked aggres-there may be opportunities" to sion is a throwback to another settle the Arab-Israeli conflict era, a dark relic from a dark and to build "new arrange­time," Bush said. "It has plun-ments" among the states in the dered Kuwait, it has terrorized gulf -but only after Iraq innocent civilians, it has held makes an unconditional with-even diplomats hostage." drawal from Kuwait. 
Aligning himself with remarks Saddam has suggested he last week by Soviet Foreign would pull his troops out if the Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, Arab dispute with Israel is Bush said Iraq and its leaders handled simultaneously. "must be held liable for these The United States has long crimes of abuse and de-been committed to a Mideast struction." settlement in which Israel 
Bush met separately with would exchange territory for Shevardnadze later to discuss Arab recognition of its right to the gulf crisis, the plight of the exist. Soviet economy and lagging Bush said a military pullout arms control talks. Emerging by Saddam could clear the way from the meeting, Bush said for Iraq and Kuwait to perma­Shevardnadze was "very confi-nently settle their territorial dent" that a treaty between differences. NATO and the Warsaw Pact to "And yet," Bush said, "the cut U.S. and Soviet non-nuclear world's key task -now, first weapons would be ready for and always -must be to signing at a 35-nation summit demonstrate that aggression in Paris. will not be tolerated or re-
Bush said he was not as con-warded." fident about completing a sepa-Later, talking with reporters, rate accord with the Soviets to Bush said his comment about cut long-range nuclear missiles, "opportunities" created by an bombers and submarines by 30 Iraqi withdrawal did not mark percent. Bush had hoped to any change in policy 

Francesco's Ristorante 
Excellent Italian Cuisine 
20% Discount with Student ID Mon. -Thurs. 
Three blocks west of 100 Center on Lincolnway West, Mishawaka Mon. -Thurs. 4 -1Opm Fri.-Sat. 5 -11pm 

Now Open Sundays On Home Football Weekends. 256-1444 

r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
I 
r r 
I 
~ 
I 
t 
page 8 
APPhoto 
Cathedral completed 
President Bush points to the top of Washington National Cathe­?ral where the last stone was lifted into place Saturday, complet­Ing 83 years of construction. 
.~:~:~::;.,x,;;·:~•»::r:>M<·~·::>.xrA~~Kilaii'X~~~?·Iae.o::•c~'~)a£~~'D-:!~·~·:o:le.(1~,_.:?X&F,;~:,;).X)ICC:~~~·)IIIJ(·~:::, 



A MUSICALLY I I ILLUSTRATED PRESENTATION BY I
• 
I 

0 
0 



I 
I 
-
IThe History of Women in Music 
~ Thursday, .October 4, 1990 :..., 4.15 PM 
"Judy Gorman is a wonderful singer and musician. She has taken her M songs to an extraordinary variety of places in the USA and Europe. She is always thinking how to find the right phrase, the right song to hit the M nail on the head, to shoot the arrow straight to the heart of the matter." 
' 
Pete Seeger Sponsored by: Student Government Environmental Action Club 
The Observer Tuesday, October 2, 1990 

Descendants of slaves to discove·r how their forebears found freedom 
JACKSON, Miss. (AP}-The descendants of slaves will soon be able to reach into a com­puter for keys to the stories of how their forebears shed their bonds and took paying jobs after the Civil War. 
The state Department of Archives and History will soon have a computer index of labor contracts that 36,359 former Mississippi slaves entered into in 1865 and 1866. 
"We plan to make the infor­mation available to the public 
in  February,"  said  H.T.  
Holmes,  director  of  the  
archives' library division.  

Holmes said Monday he be­lieves no other states offer such a service. 
He said archive librarians will use the computer index to sort through thousands of labor contracts kept by the Freed-
Americans are looking beyond burgers 
COHOES, N.Y. (AP) -Layoffs at a company that supplies meat to McDonald's restau­rants in the Northeast is the latest indication that Americans are looking beyond the burger for fast-food fixes, analysts said Monday. 
The Equity Group, a proces­sor of hamburger patties and steaks for McDonald's, gave notice Friday to 54 of its 115 employees that they would be laid off effective Oct. 26. 
The layoffs are to let the sub­sidiary of Philadelphia-based Keystone Foods "reposition it­self for the 1990s," said An­drew Kornick, vice president and general manager of the plant just north of Albany. 
Kornick would not answer 
any questions Monday as to 
I 
I 
Iw I 

\Vednesday, October 3, 1990 7:00PM Fieldhouse Mall in case of rain: Washington Hall 
THE 

. ~YEAROF 

~DMEN) 
what precipitated the layoffs. McDonald's is not likely to 
But he told the Albany Times-come from hamburgers. They Union on Friday that the cuts account for less than 50 per-at the plant, which produces cent of sales.". . exclusively for McDonald Corp., Kathy Dugm~. regional mar­were "due to a national decline kcting supervisor for MeDon­in beef consumption." aid's in Albany, said .sh~ coul.d 
Hugh Zurkuhlen, an industry not comment on Eqmty s deci~ analyst with Solomon Bros. in sion or reveal the company s New York City, said the layoffs meat patty demand from were the first of the kind he Equity. . had heard about. He said they The burger, once the undiS­are probably due to the "double putcd king of fast food, began hit" of a weak economy and the facing challenges in the 1980s national decline in beef con-as health-conscious Americans sumption. switched from fat-heavy beef to 
"There's no question that lighter fare. Fast-food restau­beef consumption coul~ have rants began offering more non­something to do with it," beefitems. Zurkuhlen said. McDonald's introduced 
"Restaurant sales in the in-Chicken McNuggets in 1983, dustry are very, very soft, and salads in 1987 and a chicken any future growth in sales in sandwich in 1989 . 
men's Bureau. The bureau, which operated from 1865 to 1872,· was established by Congress after the Civil War to ensure that former slaves were treated fairly. 
The contracts recorded the names of the former slaves, where they worked, their em­ployers, terms of their pay and, in some instances, their health. 
Freedmen's Bureau records are the only windows to the past for some black families, said James Payne, director of Afro-American studies at the University of Mississippi in Ox­ford. 
"This kind of record would be a good way to develop informa­tion about families," he said. 
The computer index will in­clude cross-references by former slaves' names, planters' 
OFFICE OF 
(lMPUSMINISTRY 
l.Wwnity of Notn Dome Hofl1 Dome. IH 46556 
t-,-JI.2ll-l$lt --li,.UI-SJU 
names, plantation names and counties. 
Anyone wanting to research a name will make a request to a department librarian, who will track the name and provide in­formation on obtaining micro­nal records of the Freedman's Bureau, which operated under supervision of the War De­partment. 
The Freedmen's Bureau su­pervised abandoned or confis­cated· land, issued rations of clothing and medicine, estab­lished hospitals, monitored working conditions, recorded marriages and set up schools. 
The documents in Washington are used extensively, said Judy Thorne, a consultant at the National Archives. 
"A lot of people who are do­ing Southern history are inter­ested in them," she said. 




Viewpoint
Tuesday, October 2, 1990 page 9 

The Obset:Ver  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303  
1990-91 General Board  
Editor-In-Chief  
Alison Cocks  
Managing Editor Business Manager  
John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor  
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger  
VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert  
Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton  
Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick  
Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson  
Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  
accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the  
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent  
Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside  
Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of  
the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters,  
is encouraged.  "W~ATTI-IE HfCK .... f\TT~l, R71NT I'LL TRV ANVf~!NG' ''  

Dear Editor: 
As committee members of the Board of Trustees Report on Sexuality, we are writing in response to Mr. Gorkowski's and Mr. Stumm's letter (The Observer, Sept. 26) which addressed student government and issues of sexuality. After reading their letter, we were shocked and disappointed at their slanderous accusations and immature arguments. 
Gorkowski and Stumm based their arguments on an article which summarizes the report. Neither took the opportunity to read the entire report. which is available to all students in the student government office. However, even granting them the benefit of the doubt that perhaps they would not have reacted so prematurely if they had read the complete report, their letter still demands seri­ous reconsideration. 
First, Gorkowski and Stumm assert that the "committee's assertions rest on false assumptions." The report focused on rape, sexual ethics, school policy, homosexuality and co-residentiality. In ad­dressing these issues, the student government formulated, distributed, and tabulated results from a student survey. Additionally, the committee interviewed numerous campus administrators and professors and completed a comparative analysis of Notre Dame with other Catholic universities and colleges. It was in light of these three sources of information that the committee then discussed and formulated recommendations that would best address the needs of this university. Thus, a report with such a wide range of sources is 
DOONESBURY 
THCYGAVe MtiWOil..­AeaJUNT 
7VOAY­UN!Vt:R5tl.L P&TRDWJM. 
\ 

, 
1 
t 
1 
,~ 1
LETTERS 

l
Report on sexuality accurately targeted student views 1 
surely  not  based  on  false  
assumptions.  
Second,  Gorkowski  and  

, 
1 
1 
,
,
,
, 
1 
, 
Stumm conclude that the report, "portrays Student Government and a significant portion of the student body as obsessed with sex and uncommitted to education." Clearly, a Board of Trustees Report on Sexuality is necessarily going to address only issues of sexuality. Does that make student government obsessed with sex? Also, in making recommendations, the report did focus on "education" to an extent consistent with the topic. The Report concluded that education is an effective tool by which to mitigate stereotypes associated with homosexuality, sexual harassment and date rape. Additionally, education is the medium through which a person can then develop his or her own views on contraceptives and disease. 
Perhaps it is appropriate that Gor.kowski and Stumm expressed their views on sexuality, for their attitudes are exactly those which the Committee considered and targeted as unhealthy. The insouciant view of sexuality exhibited by these two gentlemen equates sexuality with the act of sex. Actually, issues of sexuality and the goal of the report are much broader in scope. While Gorkowski and Stumm attack student government and this report as being obsessed with sex, it is, in fact, they who are so obsessed; otherwise, they would not have misconstrued the aims and conclusions of the report. Gorkowski and Stumm represent a minority opinion, an opinion that condones and continues to aggravate the that the mere presence of stereotypical and sexist members of the opposite sex in attitudes on this campus. the dorm does not necessitate 
Specifically, in concluding the above. Furthermore, what that "study and sleep are is going to happen to Gorkowski constantly interrupted by noisy and Stumm when they enter the co-eds," Gorkowski and Stumm work force or another assume that only members of educational institution, where the opposite sex are disruptive they cannot hide from members to student's academic pursuits. of the opposite sex? Surely, Similarly, Gorkowski and Gorkowski and Stumm are in Stumm state that co­for a substantial shock when residentiality implies "infinite they realize that, in the real visitation and therefore infinite world, members of the opposite disruption." However, we would sex actually live and work in contend that Gorkowski and coexistence. Stumm are perfect candidates for living in a co-ed dorm. An additional criticism is that Perhaps then they would learn this report uses the administration as a scapegoat for "social shortcomings." They claim that students must accept responsibility for any failures in male-female relations. However, Gorkowski and Stumm fail to recognize that the Board of Trustees Report ad­dressed problems that the Board itself was concerned about. We, as members of the Student Committee, attempted to best represent student views and develop modes of response. 
Julie Shadd Kate English Off-Campus 27, 1990 


Dear Editor: University policy pertaining to 
On Tuesday, Sept. 25, the how sexual assault survivors University Counseling Center can obtain confidential and the Year of Women Counseling Center services. The Committee co-sponsored a primary misconception is the workshop on the topic of sexual belief that a survivor will be re­exploitation on college quired to report the offense to campuses. After the presenta­Student Affairs or Campus tion, the co-presenters an­Security before (or during) the swered the questions of audi­counseling process. It is impor­ence members. It became clear tant that students at Notre that a number of misconcep­Dame know that any survivor tions exist regarding the formal can turn to the University Counseling Center without hav­ing to report their experience to anyone. Should the client de­cide to report it, counselors will support and facilitate that pro­cess. However, the ultimate de­cision of whether or not to re­port the incident is left to the survivor and that decision will be respected by the UCC stall 
Mick Franco, M.A. StaffCounselor Sept. 30, 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
TH& I!XA 15 7D PITCH OIL A? A '0/£.: R&AL­
'The great creative 
VIRII£, PATRIOTIC RJf5l.FOfi?. 
/3NER3Y 50URCI3, RfAL CAR?.'' 
individual...is capable of more
A? 0Pf(J5t;[) 7D 50/.AR AN{)AILIJHOt., 
wisdom and virtue than collective
I
/IJHICH AI<& fAJIMPY, 
man ever can be.' 
John Stuart Mill 
Philosopher 

Viewpoint
page 10 Tuesday, October 2, 1990 
LETTERS 



Students need to cast off obsession with alcohol 
Dear Editor: lack of responsibility for our wholly ignored the destructive pathological drive, realms for him. If this is done 
In their Viewpoint column studies, our irresponsible "coincidence," alcohol as well and so pervasive as to be the too long for a child, he loses his concerning student attitudes "obsession" with sex would as sex came up in each of their major form of extracurricular ability to appreciate the actual, towards parietals and single­keep us from enjoying a healthy "candid interviews," and for interaction between sexes on more subtle nature of what was sex living arrangements (The social environment in the that matter played a far more this campus. Isn't that enough? originally only labeled in such Observer, Sept. 26), John absence of parietals and unisex central role -"scoring points" I find it incredible that the strong terms to protect him and Gorkowski and Albert Stumm dorms. Are Notre Dame with that "chick" clearly University sees no inconsistency must become duplicitous to state, "Students must accept students ready to accept the depended on her intoxication, in setting a policy like parietals survive. Might this be what is responsibility for any failure in responsibility they bear for not her nymphomania. It's down in stone, when our happening to us? ma~e-female relations." I themselves, as individuals with hardly surprising that this alcohol "policy" is so flexible as Education of the intellect is wholeheartedly agree -which varying needs for physical and dimension creeps into these to be the laughingstock of the for those who have transcended is why I can accept neither emotional personal privacy, parties, since beneath the thrill student body. When a child is true childhood and are ready to their arguments for the within the context of mature of drunkenness lies the playing with knives, only the take their rightful responsibility continuation of both policies, romantic relationships? additional thrill of venturing most ignorant and oversighted for the consequences when they 
. nor their apocalyptic vision of Technically, like most questions into the Lair of the Opposite Sex parents would channel the make harmful choices, as all the anarchic "new Gomorrah" of character, this question is -which would not exist in a force of their authority into mature humans sometimes do. which would arise if these subjective. But since we are co-ed situation, when dorm forbidding him to have toy guns The "good" and "bad" of policies were not in effect. the "children" in the "Notre inhabitants would be used to instead. Socrates, quantum theory and Parietals and single-sex Dame family" (and I do not use having more than one or two Like Gorkowski, Stumm and Saint Augustine alike, which we dorms. do not, as Gorkowski these terms sarcastically), our members of the opposite sex in the rest of the student body, I pursue here, transcend rigid and Stumm allege, "provide" "parents" deserve to establish their rooms on a regular basis. know the actual reason for the codes of order; they will not be students with time and privacy. some criteria for objective But beyond that, why should rules about parietals and living fully grasped by the individual They impose exterior conditions evaluation. we respect ourselves and our arrangements at Notre Dame. It who cannot think of them r which make the achievement of Consider the child who is fellow students sa little as to is to "provide" us with the without the presence of such a particular type of time and "obsessed" with watching TV to insist on relating to them from reverence of one another's crutches. So it is with the
r 
t privacy -namely, time away the exclusion of healthy play behind the protective devices of bodies formalized in the ritual teaching of Jesus. r from interaction with the with his friends. His parents alcohol? Only a half-wit lacks sacrament of marriage by And what comfort shall Notre r opposite sex -completely will accordingly restrict his the faculties of mind and heart establishing boundaries within Dame find in a legion of "sons r inevitable. On this campus, viewing time. They can then necessary to rely on these which "reverence" will be and daughters" who physically 
however, they do not effectively gauge his progress by the alone. Or have we sunk so low virtually inevitable. If this live as Catholics -again, by restrict interaction between amount of time he spends as to think that 15 credit hours divorcement of the meaning of virtue of imposed circumstance members of the same sex. This watching TV rather than and proximity to a church are reverence from its physical -when our serious alcohol is an intriguing piece of social playing when the rules are not all the mind and heart we have expression makes you wince, it problem and childish, fantastic policy, since it implicitly in effect, with the restrictions a right to claim as our own?. should. paranoia about new Gomorrhas
r 
presumes that, while Notre being withdrawn when the If ND students display a lack I appeal to my earlier point shows the vacuousness of ourr Dame students are responsible child no longer needs the of readiness to cast off their about the value of an education appreciation and under­
r 
r enough for their studies to let imposed priority system to "obsession" with anything, it is for analogy. We are still standing? If you are a Catholic t members of the same sex know balance his time. What sort of indeed alcohol, not sex. Must children intellectually. But we -or, more importantly, a r when they need to hit the criteria might be applied to us, this also be a sin against the are not to be confused with the decent human being -for r books, they are not responsible the lusty;' would-be pioneers of Catholic Church for the true child, whose mind is whom have you chosen to be r enough for their studies to do this new Gomorrah? University to take steps to capable of dealing only with so, at this mature stage in your 
r 
the same with members of the Frankly, it would be difficult prevent it? Our drinking si­absolutes and who needs his life? Your rector and rectress? r opposite sex. to think up relevant tuation is physically unhealthy, environment -places, people, Jennifer Crosson 
r 
That implication alone ought qualifications which we don't indicative of student inability to potentially harmful action -Off-Campus to disturb us, because it raises already meet. There isn't take responsibility for a divided into "good" and "bad" Sept. 28, 1990
~ 
r an issue about why we are at exactly a slew of evidence that Notre Dame at all. If we need students are out recklessly 
Ferraro's stance on abortion inexcusably 
r 
rules enforced by others to fornicating their time away defend our own right to pursue when parietals aren't in effect. r the studies which presumably Nor can I recall ever having conflicts with catholicity and feminism
drew us to the University, then heard my fellow students speak 
we call ourselves "students" by Dear Editor: right of privacy, to do what they if she represents the things that
with eager anticipation about 
the dubious virtue of imposed the big sex orgies being To admire Geraldine Ferraro want with their bodies. It would feminism stands for: equality, for her political beliefs is to ne­be deplorable to hear a liberty and the celebration of
circumstance, not through our planned for the weekend. And if 
r own deliberate choice. For I had to pin down the glect her position on abortion. politician say, "Personally, I am life. I contend that abortion is whom did we choose to be While it may be argued that morally opposed to rape, but I an act which diametrica:lly op­
quintessential symbol of
~ students here? Our parents? other issues are of similar or can't impose my values on poses feminism and is, in fact, a
weekend social success at Notre 
Our prospective employers? Or Dame, it would be a case of greater importance, no other others." replication of that which ourselves and our personal beer, not a pack of condoms. issue has singularly been re­feminists fight against: victim­goals? The first two may play sponsible for the killing of over The right of privacy is sub­ization, oppression, and perse­
On the other hand, come to
f important roles in our lives, but 25,000,000 human beings since stantially a right against illegal cution.
think of it, students are 
an "education" that is not one engaging in rampant drinking 1973. searches and seizures. It should Ms. Ferraro's beliefs, as both ~ individual's sovereign endeavor when parietals aren't in effect; It would be nice to be able to not pertain to cases where one a feminist and Catholic, are de­r live by two sets of rules. It person's privacy violates an­plorable. Why the University,
is an unappreciated waste of we all hear eager talk about the 
r r time. big drinking orgies being would be great if politicians other's right to life. Ms. Ferraro which tries to celebrate Let's look into this argument, planned for the weekend. And could actually find a way to believes that abortion is wrong. Catholicism's respect for life though, that beyond our alleged although Gorkowski and Stumm keep values from politics. But She maintains that her and equality, would sponsor her 
politics is not, as Ms. Ferraro catholicity allows her to believe visit is beyond me. The would like to believe, a com­that abortion is wrong yet Observer's coverage of the im­promise of values; it is a com­continues to legislate its le­portance of her visit is solely an 
Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a 
variety of issues. If you have something to say, bring 
promise of issues. Abortion is gality. Nothing in Catholic doc­indication of its lack of under­
not an issue; it is a moral trine allows for this wavering, standing of both Catholicism dilemma. Following the logic of in either the public or private and feminism. 
your written thoughts to the Observer offices located 
on the third floor of LaFortune, or send them to: 
Ferraro, Cuomo and others, forum. Tom Dixon Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
rapists could argue the legality To salute Ms. Ferraro as a Off-Campus of their acts, based on their woman of politics is legitimate Sept. 27. 1990 
Co-ed visiting hours fail to hinder educational pursuits 
Dear Editor: 
I found John Gorkowski and Albert Stumm's letter to the editor (The Observer, Sept. 26) very disturbing. These two morally-upstanding, scholastically-o ri en ted gentlemen see parietals as the conscientious Catholic student's only protection against a campus swarming with chaos and promiscuity that is rooted in an obsession with sex. 
I find it hard to believe that those who oppose parietals do so solely because it makes sex more convenient. It seems that this opposition stems more from the administration's failure to justify these arbitrary hours chosen to separate males and females at this University. For example, the ad­ministration justifies parietals, as do these two students, on the basis of parietals being conducive to academic pursuits. A problem with this stems from the fact that same-sex guests are allowed to remain in the dormitory after parietals. Why is it assumed that members of the opposite sex are inherently louder? I find it hard to believe that the two insightful authors of this letter, who happen to be roommates, discontinue all social interaction at the stroke of midnight. 
In addition, the average dorm-dweller does not live his or her life in total silence. Those who find these zoo-like conditions unbearable are welcomed, as well as encouraged, to pursue their studies in a setting more conducive to academia, such as the upper levels of the library. 
Furthermore, dorm living is based upon an ideal with communal living, consideration and accommodation at its very core. If one has to rely completely upon administrative policies to create harmony within the dorm, he or she must be quite socially inept. By the time a person reaches the age at which he or she may attend college, he or she should be able to come to a harmonious living arrangement that is agreeable to all. 
I find it offensive that Gorkowski and Stumm accuse the Notre Dame student body of being preoccupied with sex and unconcerned with education. One need only walk through the halls of any given dorm to disprove this statement. Regardless of the hour, be it during co-ed visitation hours or not, one need not look very far in order to see a plenitude of students absorbed in textbooks. 
Further, I have yet to be distracted from my studies at any hour by boisterous screeches and moans of sexual ecstasy in my dorm or any other. 
While their claim is supported by offensive "typical" quotes they received from fellow students, such as, "I came to college for women and liquor," statements such as this seem to indicate not a problem with male-female relations at this school, but, rather, a problem with the unsavory company that these authors keep. I don't know where they got the idea that this is a typical response, as they claim, but I have failed to hear a statement even remotely s~milar to this during my stay at Notre Dame. 
However, I do agree with Gorkowski and Stumm 
regarding the blame for any supposed social shortcomings at this university. The well­meaning administration should not bear the burden of blame for existing social conditions. Rather, we should look to the guilty party which consists of uptight, close-minded individuals who automatically associate co-ed relationships with sexual activity and obsession, and find members of the opposite sex who frequent their dorm to be destructive and disruptive. It bothers me that such a reputable university as the one we attend accepts such inferior students as those who do not possess the ability to juggle normal sexual relations with academic and moral excellence. 
Sharon Johnson Lewis Hall Sept. 27, 1990 




Accent 

Many favorable reviews of guitarist Cliff Erickson pave the way for a successful career. 
My older brother: Lord of Terror 
A story of a sibling relationship at its best 

Cocking the gun, he took careful aim of the quarry, and with a cold gleam in his eye, fired one speeding pellet into my butt. The squeal of agony fell upon uncaring ears, as the hour of the beast was at hand. Once again, Jim, my older brother, was embroiled in one of his many plots of evil which made my childhood a living hell. 
The now infamous "operation b-b-gun" started out innocently enough. Jim (at this point 12 years old) demanded that I re­trieve his sneakers from up­stairs so we could play catch outside. l(at the tender age of 8), gathering all the courage all l could muster, steadfastedly refused. Thus, my fate was sealed. Amazed with my defi­ance, Jim searched through a closet and emerged with three feet of gleaming death. Pumping the gun generously, Jim calmly requested the com­pliance of his request. 
Once again, Jim, my older brother, was embroiled in one of his many plots of evil which made my childhood a living hell 
Realizing my young life teetered on the brink of oblivion, l scurried up the stairs on all fours with lynx-like speed. Using the unfathomable ra­tionalization shared by older brothers throughout history, Jim decided I aetually needed to be shot. The result was a small spheroid object lodged in my hindquarters (which, if I recall correctly through the 
blur of tears, required 
dislodgement by tweezers). 
My most beloved episode of horror occurred under the de­lighted gaze of a boyhood 
chum, Robert. While Robert and I were being driven down a twisty back road to my house, I noticed that Jim had taken his hands off the wheel. "Drive or die!" commanded Jim. Surely he would not let us all perish, would he? Then I re­member who I was dealing with. Snatching the wheel mo­ments before a shrapnel filled death, l figured Jim's joke was over. The fun, however, was just beginning, as a cigarette lighter entered the fray. Jim held the open flame under my arm until the agony caused me to wrench my smouldering 
ANGEL FARAH accent writer 

When it comes to musical en­tertainment many of us think of big name bands, high-tech con­certs, and high-cost record la­bels. There is one very talented guitarist who could change all that: Cliff Erickson. A graduate of Port Huron Catholic, Erickson has been performing in a multitude of shows for many years. 
Not only does he have the power to captivate his audience in the midst of a stunning per­formance but also the ability to earn their respect and affec­tion. One writer for The Cord Weekly of Waterloo, Canada writes, "As I was leaving the show I thought the evening was like singing around an open campfire gazing through the flames, except Erickson was the fire ..." 
Erickson's dazzling perfor­mances have led to more than 
Bill Rosemann 
Tales of Angst 
forearm off the wheel. 

Once again a vision of twisted carnage rose like a bird of prey. The game of cat and mouse continued for what seemed like eons: I would gra-b the wheel at the last possible instance, the flame would be placed under my exposed flesh until I tleared unconsciousness, and Roi)ert giggled gleefully in the back seat. 
Revenge was mine, for as Jin; drove Robe!!t home alone, my simply one or two good reviews. Such talent has led Wendy Coomber of The Lance, in Windsor, Canada to write, "Brilliant, fantastic, wonderful, dazzling, superb, magnificent, incredible, jolly good ... Despite everyone telling me to write a great review or they'd break my neck, I'm going to write one anyway." 
Despite the great reviews and endless praise of this man who has also been known to work with such stars as Harry Chapin and The Gatlin Brothers, there is another side to his life that takes great precedence. His family, consisting of a wife and two children, is the reason why when he is on the road his circuit is so small: Windsor, Hamilton, London, and Kitchener-Waterloo. 
All things considered, the fu­ture of Cliff Erickson looks as promising as the success of his past performance 
brother decided to use only his knees to steer. Robert found it hard to giggle as he pleaded for mercy. 
Let me not forget the time my 
brother took me swimming in 
the neighborhood pool after the 
lifeguard had gone home. While 
dunking me in the deep-end, 
Jim noticed a trio of girls enter 
the opposite side of the pool. 
Seizing upon the moment Jim 
) wked down my shorts and 
to:.~d them at the feet of the 
s~ed females. In my squeaky 
Pf:'escent voice, while crouch­!:; behind a pooiside ladder, I ,eKed them to return my mis­
11•1~ 

placed garment. The girls, for­ 
tunately, answered my request,  
but not without thunderous  
peals of laughter.  
If the occurrences ended  
there, l would dismiss these  
acts as outbreaks of madness.  
My brother's wicked mind,  
however, never grew tired of  
experimenting on my threshold  
of pain. Throughout my for­ 
mative years I learned not to  
turn on pro-wrestling, as a  
series of "sleeper holds,"  
"scorpion death-locks, "and  
"spine busters" would follow.  
And how could I not mention  
the time my loving sibling,  
Tabasco sauce dripping from  
his mouth and butcher knife in  
hand, tried to convince me that  
he was a zombie, intent upon  
severing my head.  
Don't get me wrong, I don't  
believe Jim was the only person  
to torture his little brother. I  
am quite confident he does,  
however, hold a high position in  
the "Conclave of the  
Apocalypse"(a timeless cult  
united to enshroud younger  
brothers' hearts in noxious  
clouds of fear).  
This living embodiment of  
evil managed to graduate from  
college, holding a high rank  
within a prestigious fraternity,  
and now pulls in a impressive  
salary. I guess devising new and  
exciting methods of un­ 
speakable cruelty is the only  
way to successfully prepare for  
corporate America. And what  
kind of older brother would he  
have been without making me  - 
fear his approaching footsteps?  
I'm sure Doctor Spock would  
explain these instances as Jim's  
only outlets for his deep affec­tion for me. I still love the man  - 
who my friends nicknamed  
"Chet" (from Weird Science)  
with all my heart...he is my  
brother after ail... and if I didn't,  
he'd probably find a way of  
making me.  


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Classifieds 
Christmas Help 

NOTICES  National firm has many openings  
available. $8.10  
TYPING AVAILABLE  starting. Gain great business  
287-4082  experience . Weekends and  
evenings available.call271-8699  
Typing  
 
Pickup & Delivery  I need 2 GA's and 1 stud for  
277-7406  Stanford game!  
Betsy 283-3829  
SPEE·DEE WORDPROCESSING  
237-1949  

JUST SAY NO! Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of NO ave. & Howard. 233-2342 
LOST/FOUND I 
...... REWARD........ 
My license was losVstolen last 

'9/20 at The Commons. I need it back so I can write checks, drink etc .... It is a Pennsylvania license. PLEASE call Beth Bolger (the name on the I D) with ANY information. 288-0597 
FOUND AT MICHIGAN GAME ­BRO. PETER'S BUSHNELL BINOCULARS-CALL X1407 
ATIENTION 
TO THE YOUNG MAN WHO STOLE OUR TAP FRI. NITE. TWO OF OUR FRIENDS SAW YOU TAKE IT, AND WILL RECOGNIZE YOU WHEN THEY SEE YOU. RETURN IT, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. SAME GOES FOR THE JERK WHO STOLE MY STRAW HAT. 
HAVE YOU SEEN MY KEYS??? 
LAST SEEN ACROSS THE STREET FROM STEPAN COURTS SITIING ON A FENCE POST. HAVE SMILEY FACE AND EIFFEL TOWER KEY CHAINS. 
PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT X1336. 
LOST-AIWA SUPERBASS WALKMAN in Washington Hall Laundry Room on Sept.30 around 4 pm. I know it sounds nice, but please return it. 
REWARD-$$ or MIAMI 
Call Cesar (1690) 
LOST: TEMORARY ID & VALIDINE. PLEASE CALL WILL AT 3028. THANKSIIIIII 
LOST: 14 k gold rope chain bracelet on Stepan Football field. GREAT Sentimental Value. If found, please contac1 Cara at x3847. 
LOST: SILVER NECKLACE W/PEARL PENDANT NEAR SACRED HEART. HIGH SENTIMENTAL VALUE!! PLEASE CALL AMY AT X3427 IF FOUND 

WANTED 
I 
BABYSITIER WANTED: Looking for someone to watch 2 small children in my home. 4-8 hours a week.(flexible) wage negotiable. Transportation required. 

-
JUNIORS, SENIORS: Give hundreds of employers (including Ameritrust, AT&T, Bank One, the Federal Reserve, Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, Proc1er & Gamble, and Random House) access to your resume through Targeted Recruiting Services (TRS). Only $10 before Oc1. 15th. For your free enrollment kit plus a free Corporate Profiles Magazine. describing opportunites at th_e nation's leading employers, 
call 1-800-TRS-JOBS. 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr., round, All Countries, Corona Del Mar CA 

·92625. 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS THIS WEEKEND-OCT 5-7. CALL MIKE X1613 
Earn $300 to $500 per week Reading Books at home. Call 1-615-473-7440 ext. B 340. 
EARN $2500 AND FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO BAHAMAS. JAMACIA AS PART-TIME CAMPUS REP FOR SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786. 
EASY WORK! EXCELLENT PAY! ASSEMBLE PRODUCTS AT HOME. CALL FOR INFORMATION 504-641-8003 EXT. 6840. 
BICYCLE mechanic/sales person wanted. Pro-Form Bike Shop, N. Ironwood Dr. (between Edison & S.R. 23) 272­0129. 
NEEDED: AN ARTIST WITH TALENT IN PORTRAITS PLEASE CALL JACKIE 4112 BIG$$$$$ 
EVERYONE KNOWS THAT NO IS GOING TO KILL MIAMI, SO WHY DON'T YOU SELL ME YOUR 
2 MIAMI GA'S 
AND MAKE MORE $$$$ THAN YOU CAN IMAGE?J?J?I?J CALL LOOTCH NOW! 273-9316 

FOR RENT 
1991-1992 Reserve your 
6,5,4, or 2 bedrm house. Call Bruce: 234-3831 or 288­5653 
STUDENT HOUSING FOR 1991­92 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL CHUCK GLORE 232-1776. 
a studio apartment in lovely old mansion near N. D. 255 plus deposit ; please call 2888595 
roommate wanted to share two bedroom house. two minutes from campus. 2730087 
I HAVE GA'S AND STUD TIX 
TO EVERY GAME. CALL TOM 
AND LEAVE B.O. #3770 
FOR SALE: 12-inch Black & White Portable TV!!! Excellent condition. Call x1208 and leave a message for Paul. Will take best offer before midnight, Oct. 12th. 
For sale: Bianchi Nuovo 12 speed racing bike. Mavic rims, Shimano 600 components. In great shape. $250 or best offer. Call Bob at x3588. 
AWESOME CAR FOR SALE!IIIIIIIJ!I! 1980 Honda Civic HB, 4 spd, am/fm cass, GOOD condition, and last but not least..34 MPGII $650 CHEAP CHEAP 259-9638 
1985 BUICK REGAL 75,000 Ml EXCELLENT CONDITION,V6,AC,2 DOOR,LIGHT BLUE ASKING $4200. CALL 233-5316. 
FOR SALE: Four Stanford GA's and two Miami Student tix. Best offer. Chris 1052. 
LSAT review books-hate to waste 'em.: Barron's, Area, HB&J. $6 each -call257-8158 
TICKETS 
t-or::;ale: 
3 Stanford Stud. Tix together 
Call Jce X1688 
STANFORD STUD. TIX FOR SALE 

Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be 

LOST: Yellow Folder-contains very important material. ... Reward! Call Jay Johnsrud at 1581. 
LOST: Yellow Folder-Contains very important material. REWARD! II Call Jay Johnsrud ... 1581 
STUDIO APT TURTLE CREEK AVAILABLE NOW 271-1833 AFTER 7:00PM 
NO STUDENT AND HIS WIFE LOOKING FOR SMALL APARTM. NEAR CAMPUS. CALL 6-8PM ASK FOR PAUL.2334425 
FOR SALE 
MIKE X3024 

need one or two PENN STATE 
MIKE AT 283-1062, OR SUSAN call KATIE X2563 see CLASS 1page 13
GAs. Call monica at 283-4021. 
AT283-4121. 


Tuesday, October 2, 1990 The Observer page 13 
-

Red Sox clinch tie with Jays in AL East 
BOSTON (AP) -Boston grounded weakly to the mound. clinched a tie for the American Fielder has gone 16 at-bats League East title Monday night without a home run and has as Dwight Evans snapped an just two games left in his bid to eighth-inning tie with a run­become the first player to hit scoring single to give the Red 50 since George Foster in 1977, Sox a 4-3 victory over the and the first American Leaguer Chicago White Sox. to reach the mark since Roger The win moved the Red Sox Maris and Mickey Mantle in two games ahead of Toronto 1961. Rookies Mark Leiter and with two games left for each Steve Adkins are scheduled to team. The Blue Jays lost to start the last two days for the 
Baltimore 6-3 and will be Yankees. eliminated on Tuesday if the Twins 7, Mariners 5 
Hed Sox win or they lose. 
The Hed Sox won the AL East MINNEAPOLIS-Scott Leius in 1988, but have not won a had a two-run double in a five­World Series title since 1918. run second inning as Minnesota 
defeated Seattle. 
Orioles 6, Blue Jays 3 Kevin Tapani (12-8) won for 
the first time since July 30 
BALTIMORE-Toronto moved despite giving up four runs on within one game of elimination 10 hits in six-plus innings. in the AL East as Baltimore Tapani, who has been bothered beat the Blue Jays behind the by a variety of injuries since strong pitching of rookie Jose mid-July, was 0-3 in his Mesa. previous six starts. 
Mesa (3-2) gave up four hits Seattle starter Russ Swan (2­and three runs in 7 2-3 innings 3) lasted just two innings. Swan for his second victory over the allowed five straight hits, Blue Jays in 19 days. Kevin including three doubles, in the llickey got one out and Gregg Twins' five-run second inning. Olson finished for his 37th Two of the five runs he allowed save. were unearned. 
Baltimore trailed 3-1 in the sixth before rallying for three Mets 4, Pittsburgh 1 runs against David Wells (11­6). Billy Ripken walked and PITTSBURGH-David Cone Mike Devereaux followed with pitched a three-hitter, struck his 12th homer. one pitch after out 12 and hit two run-scoring Toronto pitching coach Galen singles as the New York Mets Cisco went to the mound for a beat the National League East talk with Wells. champion Pittsburgh Pirates 4­
After Cal Ripken fouled out, 1 Monday night. Handy Milligan singled, took Cone (14-1 0) improved his second on a groundout and career record against the scored on Bob Melvin's double. Pirates to 6-0. He has had at 
least 10 strikeouts in nine 
Tigers 2, Yankees 0 games this season and leads 
the National League with 233. 
NEW YORK-Rookie Travis Pittsburgh's run was unearned. Fryman, not Cecil Fielder, 
Reds 4, Astros 3
homered for Detroit and Frank Tanana pitched three-hit ball CINCINNATI-The NL Westfor 7 1-3 innings as the Tigers champion Reds won when Ronbeat New York. 
Oester scored from second onFielder went 0-for-4 and 
Houston shortstop Rafael
stayed stuck at 49 home runs. 
Ramirez's throwing error in theHe struck out three times, bottom of the ninth inning. 
increasing his major league­Brian Meyer (0-4) walkedleading total to 179 and Oester to start the ninth. Todd Benzinger sacrificed and Billy Hatcher hit a grounder to the hole at short. Ramirez fielded the ball but threw it past first into the Reds' dugout. Randy Myers (4-6), the fifth Cincinnati pitcher, pitched a perfect ninth. 

Phillies 7, Cubs 6 

PHILADELPHIA-John Kruk tripled, doubled and drove in three runs as Philadelphia withstood Ryne Sandberg's league-leading 40th home run for Chicago. Sandberg's two­run homer in the third inning made him the third player in major league history to hit 40 home runs and steal 25 bases in a season. The others were Hank Aaron of the Atlanta Braves in 1963 and Oakland's Jose Canseco in 1988. 
Philadelphia's Jose DeJesus (7 -8) allowed four hits and three runs in the six innings. Loser Kevin Coffman (0-2) gave up six runs and seven hits in four-plus innings. 
Lenny Dykstra, who went 3­for-3 and raised his average to . 326, opened the Phillies' first with a triple . 



Women 
continued from page 20 
fense has been a success be­cause our concept is team de­fense. We don't just rely on the kids in the back-everybody de­fends well. The whole team plays good defense. 
"Louisville was a small, bumpy field. We haven't played on a small field all year, and we had a little trouble adjusting to it. We outshot them 16-2, and I can't say that we were ever in danger of losing the game. Of course, when the score is 1-0 it is still a game. They stayed in it because we didn't put them away." 
Alison Lester, who scored the game-winner on an assist from Marianne Giolitto, was pleased with the team's efforts, but ex­pects steady improvement. 
"We played well and it was good for us to win on the road," noted Lester. "I think we're doing well, yet I really expect us to get better. There is plenty of room for improve­ment. In the next three years, we should only get better. Hopefully, we'll earn more re­spect, and people will treat us more seriously as a team." 
Meanwhile, Petrucelli was quick to commend Lester's sea­son-long quest for success. 
"You have to recognize that while Alison is scoring some goals right now, she has been dangerous all year long," said Petrucelli. "But goal-scoring is a part of her that is starting to come forward now. Also, for Stephanie Porter to just move up and score three goals was a real lift for the team, as well as a great accomplishment for her. We want to be a team with a different hero every game." 
NOTES: Over the ·last seven games, Notre Dame's record is 6-0-1. The Irish have four play­ers with over ten total points. Last week, Susie Zilvitis and Marianne Giolitto were tied for the lead in assists in the central region. The central region in­cludes the middle third of the United States, ranging from Minnesota to Texas. Additionally, Irish goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga was ranked fifth in the region. She has recorded three shutouts since that ranking appeared. 

I have 4 Miami Studs 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ TO THE MEN IN 401-403 for sale: SEATTLE rd-trp plane tix­MARYGARINO Need 4 Miami GA's 
FLANNER: fall break. Save bucks. caroline It's 11 :00. Do you know Trade? WILL PAY Ill I NEED 2 AF GA's & JUST A NOTE OF THANKS FOR x4354 where your ham. egg, and 

Class 
Treven X4503 3 STANFORD GA's ALL THAT YOU'VE DONE FOR cheese McMuffin Is????? continued from page 12 CALL JOHN x4141 ME THIS PAST WEEK. YOUR Washington. D.C. Club members: MONEY IS NO OBJECT THOUGHTFULNESS AND The sign-ups for the Fall break SENIOR&-WANT TO TEACH 
MIAMI TIX; need 1 student; 
4 AIR FORCE GAs FOR SALE $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ FRIENDSHIP MEAN MORE TO bus will be held tonight. Tuesday, NEXT YEAR? POST GRAD 
call Bill x3300 
CALL JULIE x4975 ME THAN YOU KNOW. LOOKING Oct 2nd, in Lafortune Center on FAIR­FORWARD TO MORE GOOD the bottom floor. Sign-ups will be C.S.C. TUES. OCT. 2ND 7-10 I need Penn St. and Miami Hey-We have two Miami student VISITING ALUMNI NEEDS 2 TIMES, ESP. LASAGNA AND from 7 to a. so don't be latell tickets RIGHT NEXT TO EACH 
stud. tix. Call Dan X1407 STANFORD GA'S. CALL 233-OUTBURSTII Lost-blue backpck 127NSH on 
7673 AFTER 5 PM. THANKS-JEN SPRINGBREAK SAILING 9/26 @1 :45. physics NB, detex OTHER IIIII What more could you 
Need two tickets to NO vs. USC ask for?lllll Call4354 or 4321 and BAHAMAS: 45 ft Captained desperately wanted. no O's,712 game, student or GA's. Call leave best offer by Fri., Oct. 5. FOR SALE: FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP + Yachts. Groups of 6 to 8. Seven PE x4354 Caroline. Betsy at x3899. CASH I JAMAICA! BAHAMAS! Sell Days Barefoot in the Bahamas. I have tickets for all remaining trips on your campus and earn $448.00 each Including IF YOU WANT TO SEE ALF WANTED: 2 STANFORD GA's. NEED MIAMI GEN + STUD TIX home games free trip for you plus bonus cash! Accommodation and Meals. AGAIN -GIVE THE "MIODLE CALL x2718 #2287 Call FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-SPRING BREAK HOTLINE I WOMEN" A CASE OF BEER BY 9 Call Jre X1688 31361 1-800-999-7245 1 OAM-8P PM. OCT. 3. HELP I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE-CALL Mon-Thurs 3:30-6:30 PM FORMAANDPA WITH BEST OFFER: 237-0788 ROD FOLEY-Need Miami Tix JVC'S, HOLY CROSS TODD X1724 Happy 20th birthday II Call Dave 1862 ASSOCIATES. PEACE CORPS PERSONALS Remember, birthdays are the LEARN MORE ABOUT THEM I I NEED STANFORD STUD TIX STANFORD and MIAMI stud. tkt. perfect occasion to get wasted. POST GRAD OPPORTUNITIES CHRIS X1751 for sale-sec 29 : 237-0788 hiag (We always dol) DAY OCT. 2 C.S.C. 7-10 P.M. 
Love. 

??????????? INFORMAL DISCUSSION ''MIAMI'' Aunt Joan & Uncle Joe 
MIAMI GA FACE VALUE ... I NEED AIR FORCE GA'S 1111111 
GROUP STANFORD & AIR FORCE Psych... MIAMI Tkts ...
DO BLACK PATENT SENIOR RAP UP SIGN UP BY "TWO STUD. TICK!' Stud. $125 & up GOD OF THUNDER: $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
LEATHER SHOES REALLY OCT. 5 AT C.S.C.-THE SOONER ''''TOGETHER"" "We've been on this road for 
GA,s $250 & up
Grandfather and little brother REFLECT UP? THE BETTER! 
CALL JIM WITH "BEST OFFER" Can't Believe ltl!llllllllllll so long
need tix to see their first 271-0333 My love, it's only a cloud
NO game. ??????????? POST GRAD OPPORTUNITIES today -it's only a cloud" 
.......................................
Call Andy at x1211 DAY C.S.C. 7-10 STOP BY $$$$$$$$$$$ ############### TODAY!
After the rain, through whom 
do you want to see the truth? HAPPY BIRTHDAY NEED STANFORD GA #Integrity. Values.## 
HELPIII NEED 1 MIAMI TICKET, CaiiZaida x3435 #Hard Work. Cute. ## WANT GREAT FOOD AND 
Sweet Sensations Ill 

STUD OR GAl CALL KATHY. $$$$$$$$$$$ #Bulging muscles. ## GREAT CONVERSATION? JOIN 
From your boys: X1704$$ #Female Magnet. ## ­

A SENIOR RAP UP GROUP #Amphibian drinker.# I'M DESPERATE! I NEED TO Bailley's, Snickers, 
TODAY AT C.S.C.I DEADLINE IS I NEED 1 STANFORD GA I JUST PLAIN NEED: ##STEVE CANNON## TRADE TWO AIR FORCE 
and Spunky. Miss you 

OCT.5 X1057 TIM ##STEVE CANNON## STUDENT TIX FOR GA'S. 
terribly, wish you were 
here. Love A.

1 STD. STANFORD ############### PLEASE HELP. I WILL BE P.S. See you soon. 
Need STANFORD STUD TICKET 2 STD PENN STATE FOREVER IN DEBT TO YOU. and 2 AIR FORCE GA's. Call Amy 2GA FORCE CALL MIKE AT 1788. x3777·thanks. ''LONG ISLAND STUDENTS" P.S. MOM WILL KILL ME IF I TODAY I TODAY! TODAY! 
We need vou.

CALL JOHN X3697. Fall Break Bus DON'T GET THESE I POST GRAD OPPORTUNITIES Selling all stud. tixlll Oct 21 AM toLl-Oct 27 PM DAY OCT. 2 Best offer-x2694,Maj need STANFORD stud ticket back to ND. Done in our usual CENTER FOR SOCIAL Sheri x3620 "spirit" for only $100! 1st CONCERNS 7-10PM NEEO 2 STANFORD TIX. HAVE come, 1st serve-act now I STEVE CURTIS DOES DISHES STOP BY TODAY ­
~~American Heart

V Association NECESSARY. X4088 CALL x3677 welcome! WELCOME I 
AIR FORCE TO TRADE IF NEED STANFORD STUD TIX??? Janice 2993,Joni 1839.SMC TOOl UNDERGRADS 

-Scoreboard 
page 14 Tuesday, October 2, 1990 
BASEBALL STANDINGS SPORTS CALENDAR NFL STANDINGS 
All Times EDT 
T~y. October 2
AMERICAN LEAGUE All Times EDT
No sports scheduled. East Division AMERICAN CONFERENCE w L Pet GB L10 Streak Wedneedoy, October, 3 East Boston 87 73 .544 z-6-4 Wont No sports scheduled. w L T Pet. PF PA Toronto 85 75 .53t 2 3-7 Lost 1 Buffalo 3 0 .750 92 75lhlnday, October4
Detroit 78 82 .488 9 5-5 Won2 Miami 3 1 0 .750 88 57
Wichtta State vs. BASEBALL, 7 p.m. at Coveieskl
Baltimore 75 84 .472 tt t/2 z-7-3 Won1 N.Y. Jets 2 2 0 .500 88 89
Stadium.

Cleveland 75 85 .469 t2 z-5-5 Won1 Indianapolis 3 0 .250 58 
89 

Milwaukee 72 87 .453 t4 t/2 3-7 Lost t Frldoy, October5 New England 3 0 .250 60 tt9 New Vorl< 66 94 .4t3 2t 6-4 Lost 1 CROSS COUNTRY hosts Notre Dame Invitational, Central West Division 1-4 p.rn at Burl<e GoH Course. Cincinnati 3 0 0 1.000 87 43 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Stanford vs. MEN'S AND WOMEN'S SWIMMING, Houston 2 2 0 .500 77 844 p.m. at Ro"s Aquatic Center.
x-Oakland t02 57 .642 z-7-3 Won3 Cleveland 3 0 .250 48 85
MEN'S SOCCER hosts Irish Soccer Classic:
Chicago 93 67 .58t 9 t/2 z-7-3 Lost t Pittsburgh 3 0 .250 32 70
Western Michigan vs. Creighton. 5 p.m. at Krause
Texas 82 77 .5t6 20 z-3-7 Lost 3 West
Stadium. California ?8 8t .49t 24 z-4-6 Lost 3 Ohio State VB. Notre Dame, 8 p.m. at Krause LA Raiders 4 0 0 1.000 75 35 Seattle 76 84 .475 26 1/2 3-7 Lost 3 Stadium. Kansas City 3 1 0 .750 98 
48 Kansas City 75 84 .472 27 6-4 Won 3 Stanford VB. MEN'S AND WOMEN'S TENNIS, 6 Denver 2 2 0 95 97
.500 
p.m. a! Eck Tennis Pavilion.

Minnesota 73 87 .456 29 1/2 z-6-4 Won 1 San Diego t 3 0 .250 61 69
VOLLEYBALL hosts Golden Dome Classic: 
Seattle 0 3 0 .000 44 
68

LSU vs. Hofstra , 6 p.rn In the JACC.
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Oklahoma vs. Notre Dame, 8 p.m. In the JACC. 
East Division NATIONAL CONFERENCE
WicMaState vs. BASEBALL. 8:30p.m. at 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Coveleskl Stadium. East x-Pittsburgh 94 66 .588 z-8-2 Lost 1 Lewis VB. WOMEN'S SOCCER, 5:30p.m. w L T Pet. PF PA New Vorl< 90 70 .563 4 z-7-3 Won 1 N.Y. Giants 4 0 0 1.000 106 47 
Satu-dey, October 6 
Montreal 83 77 .5t9 11 2-8 Wont Washington 3 1 0 .750 t 01 51
Stanford vs. FOOTBALL, 12:10p.m. at Notre Dame
Philadelphia 77 83 .481 t7 z-7-3 Won2 Dallas 3 0 .250 56 
92 Chicago 75 85 .469 19 3-7 Lost 1 Philadelphia 3 0 .250 91 95 
Stadium. 

VOLLEYBALL hosts Golden Dome Classic: 
St. Louis 70 90 .438 24 3-7 Lost 5 Phoenix 3 0
Hofstra VB. Notre Dame, 10 am. In JACC. .250 40 118 West Division LSU vs. Oklahoma 12 p.m. In JACC. Central w L Pet GB L10 Streak Oklahoma vs. Hofstra, 66p.m. In JACC. Chicago 3 0 .750 77 
53 

x-Cincinnati 90 70 .563 z-6-4 Wont LSU VB. Notre Dame, 8 p.m. In JACC. Tampa Bay 3 0 .750 98 96Creighton vs. WOMEN'S SOCCER, 8 p.m.
Los Angeles 84 75 .528 5 112 5-5 Lost 4 Green Bay 2 2 0 .500 76 93 San Francisco 84 75 .528 5 1/2 z-8-2 Won? Detroit 3 0 .250 93 
99 San Diego 74 85 .465 15 1/2 3-7 Won3 Minnesota 3 0 .250 89 69
Sunday, October 7 
MEN'S SOCCER hosts Irish Soccer Classic: 
Houston 74 86 .463 16 z-5-5 Lost 1 West
Ohio State VB. Western Michigan, 12:30 p.m. at Atlanta 63 96 .396 26 t/2 3-7 Lost 5 Krause Stadium. San Francisco 3 0 1.000 58
0 38 x-clinched division title Creighton vs. Notre Dame, 3 p.m. at Krause Atlanta 1 2 0 -.333 74 
67 z-denotes first game was a win Stadium. LA Rams t 2 0 .333 80 77 AMERICAN LEAGUE New Orleans 2 0 .333 43 52 Sunday's Games Sunday's Games Baltimore 6, Cleveland 3, 1st game New York Giants 31, Dallas 17 Cleveland 7, Baltimore 3, 2nd game RESULTS Buffalo 29, Denver 28 Detroit 1, Minnesota 0 Green Bay 24, Detroit 21 Toronto 10, Boston 5 Footbel Indianapolis 24, Philadelphia 23 New Vorl< 7, Milwaukee 2 Miami 28, Pittsburgh 6
Notre Dame 37, Purdue 11 Chicago 2. Seattle 1 Tampa Bay 23, Minnesota 20, OT Oakland 4, Texas 3 Los Angeles Raiders 24, Chicago 1o 
Volleybell
Kansas City 2, California Kansas City 34, Cleveland 0 Monday's Games Penn State defeated Notre Dame 15-8, 15-7, 15-5 Houston 17, San Diego 7 
Late Games Not Included Miami (Ohio) defeated Notre Dame 15-8, 15-5, 15-New York Jets 37, New England 13 
Detroit 2, New York 0 Washington 38, Phoenix 10 Boston 4, Chicago 3 3 OPEN DATE: Atlanta, Los Angeles Rams. New Orleans, San Francisco Baltimore 6, Toronto 3 Monday's Game 
Minnesota 7, Seattle 5 Women'a Croaa Cou1try Cincinnati at Seattle, 9 p.m. 
Texas at Milwaukee, (n) Sunday, Oct. 7 California at Oakland, (n) Detroit at Minnesota, 1 p.m. 
Notre Dame (88 points) finished second to Boston 
College (87 points) In the National Catholics
Only games scheduled Kansas City at Indianapolis, 1 p.m.
lnvttational

Tuesday's Games New Orleans at Atlanta, 1 p.m. Detroit (Nosek t-1) at New York (leiter t-t), 7:30 p.m. New York Jets at Miami, 1 p.m. Chicago (Perez 13-14) at Boston (Bolton 10-5), 7:35 p.m. Men'a Craea Cou1try San Diego at Pittsburgh, t p.m. Toronto (Black 12-11) at Baltimore (Johnson 13-8), 7:35p.m. San Francisco at Houston, 1 p.m.
Notre Dame won the National Catholics Invitational
Kansas City (Wagner 0-1) at Cleveland (Candiotti t4-11), 7:35 p.m. Seattle at New Englar(d, 1 p.m. Seattle (Hanson 17-9) at Minnesota (Abbott 0-4), 8:05 p.m. Tampa Bay at Dallas, 1 p.m. Texas (Rogers 10-5) at Milwaukee (Brown 0-1), 8:35 p.m. Men'a Soccer Cincinnati at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. California (Abbott 10-t4) at Oakland (Welch 26-6), t0:05 p.m. Notre Dame 0, Wisconsin 0 (Ol) Green Bay at Chicago, 4 p.m. 
Wednesday's Games Los Angeles Raiders at Buffalo, 7:30 p.m.
Notre Dame vs. Indiana called due to rain
Kansas City at Cleveland, t2:35 p.m. OPEN DATE: New York Giants, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Washington Seattle at Minnesota, 1:15 p.m. Monday, Oct. 8 California at Oakland, 3:15 p.m. Women's Soccer Cleveland at Denver, 9 p.m. Detroit at New York, 7:30 p.m. Notre Dame 1, Louisville 0 Chicago at Boston, 7:35 p.m. 
Notre Dame 5, Indiana 0 

Toronto at Baltimore, 7:35 p.m. Texas at Milwaukee, 8:35 p.m. LEAGUE LEADERS Season Ends Men'aGoll 
Notre Dame finished 11th at the 
Based on 440 at BatsNATIONAL LEAGUE 

Northern lnv~atlonal AMERICAN LEAGUE
Sunday's Games G AB R H Pet.
Philadelphia 2, Montreal 1 Brett KC 141 543 82 178 .328
Pittsburgh 2, St. Louis 0 Women'aGoll 
RHdsnOak 133 478 116 t56 .326 Notre Dame finished sixth at the Lady Spartan
Chicago 6, New Vorl< 5 Plmero Tax 152 589 72 189 .321 San Diego 3, Cincinnati 0 lnv~atlonal Trammell Del 145 555 70 169 .305 Houston 6, Atlanta 2 Boggs Bsn 153 61t 88 186 .304 San Francisco 8, Los Angeles 2 EMartinez Sea 144 487 71 147 .302
SMC Volleyball 
Monday's Games McGriff Tor t5t 548 89 .301
165 

Late Games Not Included Mundellen College defeated Saint Mary's 7-15, GrfyJr Sea 155 597 91 179 .300 Cincinnati 4, Houston 3 15-10, 15-8, 15-10 Franco Tax 155 577 96 172 .298 Montreal 15, St. Louis 9 Illinois Benedictine College defeated Saint Mary's Burks Bsn 150 580 89 172 .297 Philadelphia 7, Chicago 6 CJames Cle 138 519 6t 154 .297
15-3, 15-3, 4-15, 15-9

New York 4, Pittsburgh 1 Greenwell Bsn 157 602 70 179 .297 Atlanta at San Francisco, (n) Puckett Min 145 546 82 162 .297 San Diego at Los Angeles, (n) Home Runs 
Tuesday's Games TRANSACTIONS Fielder, Detroit, 49; McGwire, Oakland, 39; JCanseco, Oakland, 37; McGriff, Houston (Hernandez 2-0) at Cincinnati (Armstrong t2-9), 7:35 p.m. Toronto, 34; Gruber·, Toronto, 31; BJackson, Kansas City, 28; RHenderson, St. Louis (Olivares 1-0) at Montreal (Gross 8-12), 7:35 p.m. Oakland, 28; Deer, Milwaukee, 27. 
BASEBALL

Chicago (Bielecki 7-11) at Philadelphia (Greene 3-2), 7:35 p.m. Runs Batted In 
American League

New York (Gooden t9-6) at Pittsburgh (Tomlin 4-4), 7:35 p.m. Fielder, Detroit, t27; Gruber, Toronto, 118; McGwire, Oakland, 1 08; 
AL-Named Rich Garcia, Jim Evans, Terry 
JCanseco, Oakland, 99; Sierra, Texas, 96; Maldonado, Cleveland, 94; DParker,
Cooney, John Hirschbeck, Larry McCoy and 
Milwaukee, 92; Burks, Boston, 89; Palmeiro, Texas, 89; Trammell, Detroit,
A.P. FOOTBALL TOP 25 Vic Voltaggio playoff umpires. 
89. 

DETROIT TIGER5-Acquired Mike Munoz, 
Pitching (14 Decisions) The Top Twenty Five teama In The Aaaoclated Pre•• 19110 college pitcher, from the Los Angeles Dodgers for 
Welch, Oakland, 26-6, .8t3; Clemens, Boston, 2t-6, .778; King, Chicago, football poll, with llrat-placa votea In parentheHa, recorda through Mike Wilkins, pitcher. 
t2-4, .750; Stieb. Toronto, t8-6, .750; BJones, Chicago, t1-4, .733; Sept. 211, total pointe baaed on 25 pointe lor a llrat-place vote through National League 
RRobinson, Milwaukee, 12-5, .706; Stewart, Oakland. 22-10, .688, 4 are tied one point lor a 25th-place vote, and laat week'a ranklnga: NL-Suspended Jack Clark, San Diego Padll8s' with .667. Record Pt • Pva first baseman, for one game and fined t:im 
1. 
Notre Dame (411) 3·0-0 1,489 1 an undisclosed amount for his conduct 

2. 
Florida St. (10) 4-0-0 1,420 2 during a Sept. 26 game at San Francisco. 

3. 
Michigan 2-t-0 t,296 8 Named Harry Wendelstedt, John McSherry, Based on 440 at Bats 


NATIONAL LEAGUE G AB R H Pet.
4. 
VIrginia (1) 5-0-0 t,244 7 Paul Runge, Dutch Rennert, Jerry Crawford 

5. 
Auburn 2-0-1 1,227 3 and Gerry Davis playoff umpires. McGeeStl 125 501 76 168 .335

6. 
Tennessee 3-0-2 t,217 5 PITISBURGH PIRATE$-Announced the Magadan NY 142 445 73 147 .330

7. 
Oklahoma 4-0-0 t,129 9 retirement of Jerry Reuss, pitcher. Dykstra Phi 148 586 106 191 .326

8. 
Nebraska 4-0-0 t,106 8 ST. LOUIS CARDINAL5-Retained Dave 

9. 
Miami, Ra. 2-1-0 1,096 10 Ricketts and Red Schoendeinst, coaches, for Murray LA 152 546 95 177 .324 


Roberts SO 146 552 104 172 .312
10. Rorida 4-0-0 816 17 the 1991 season. Announced that Mike 
Grace Chi t55 582 72 181 .311 Butler SF 157 612 105 189 .309
11. 
Brigham Young 4-1-0 779 4 Rourke, Jim Riggleman, Rich Hacker, and 

12. 
Colorado 3-1·1 777 20 Steve Braun, coaches, will not be offered Dawson Chi 146 528 71 163 .309

13. 
Houston 3-0-0 748 13 contracts for the 1991 season. 


-TGwynn SO 141 573 80 177 .309
tie. Illinois 2-1-0 748 14 Sandberg Chi 155 615 116 188 .306
15. Southam Cal 3-1-0 713 18 BASKETBALL 
Home Runs Sandberg, Chicago, 40; Strawberry, New York, 37; Mitchell, San Francisco, 
16. 
Clemson 4-1-0 636 19 National Basketball Association 

17. 
Washington 3-1-0 580 12 BOSTON GELTICs-Announced they will not 


35; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 33; MaWilliams, San Francisco, 33; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 32; Gant, Atlanta, 3t; Justice, Atlanta, 28. 
18. 
Michigan St. 1·1-1 342 22 offer a contract to· Dennis Johnson, guard. 

19. 
Texas A&M 3-1-0 333 11 NEW JERSEY NET5--Signed Chris Dudley, 


Runs Batted In MaWilliams, San Francisco, 121; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, t18; JCarter, San 
20. 
Ohio St. 2-1-0 280 15 center, to a multiyear contract. Signed Jack 

21. 
Arkansas 2-1-0 273 23 Haley, forward, to a one-year contract. Diego, 115; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 114; Strawberry, New York, 1 08; Sandberg,

22. 
Oregon 3-1-0 257 NEW YORK KNICK5-Signed Brian Quinnett, Chicago, t 00; Dawson, Chicago, 99; Wallach, Montreal, 97.

23. 
Georgia Tech 3-0-0 197 1/2 forward, to a two-year contract and Greg Pitching (14 Decisions)

24. 
Fresno St. 5-0-0 193 24 Grant, John Starks and Tharon Mayes, 


Drabek, Pittsburgh, 22-6, .786; Gooden, New York, 19-6, .760; RMartinez,
25. Arizona 3-1-0 191 16 guards, and Earl Cureton, forward, to one­Los Angeles, t9-6, .760; Tudor, Stlouis, 12-4, .750; Darwin, Houston, 11-4,Other receiving votea: Wyoming 95, LSU 80 1/2, Indiana 76, Mississippi 51, year contracts. 
.733; Burkett, San Francisco, 14-7, .667; Harkey, Chicago, 12-6, .667;
Texas 40, Arizona St. 13, Georgia 12. Syracuse 11, UCLA 7, Alabama 6, Louisville 6, ORLANDO MAGIC-Signed Wallace Bryant, Lancaster, Chicago, 9-5•.643.
Missouri 4, South Carolina 4, West VIrginia 4, Toledo 2, Texas Christian 1. center, and Eugene McDowell, forward. 
Tuesday, October 2, 1990 The Observer page 15 


Raiders regaining lost form, off to 4-0 start ••• 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-For all that the Raiders have accom­plished -three Super Bowl championships, eight AFC West titles Rnd the best winning per­centage In sports over the past 25 years-they've never opened a season with five straight vic­tories. 
They'll get a chance to do jusi that Sunday night when they visit the Buffalo Bills. 
"I think people are trying to figure out what this football team Is all about," quarterback Jay Schroeder said. ''l'n 'lOt surprised at all that this te"lm Is unbeaten. We have a lot of talent and we're showing we have a lot of heart and a lot of soul." 
While wln~lng Is nothing new to the Raiders, It hasn't ht•.p­pcnod often enough since 19&5, tho last time they 11ade the playoffs. And when tho Raiders wore winning with such stand­outs as Ted Hendricks, Cliff 15ranch, Todd Christensen, Lester Hayes and Howie Long, it came as no surptizL This was, after all, the team whose owner AI Davis cc.ine.i the phrase "Commitment to Excellence." 
This year, the Raiders, with Art Shell about to celebrate his first full year as coach, are the surprise of the league. It looks as if the commitment l~ back. 
Following a 24-10 victory Sunday over the Chlcag 1 Bears, the Raiders found the1melves 4­0 for the first time since 1984. 
"We're taking It one v1eek at a time," Schroeder says. 
The Raiders won Sunday be­fore a boisterous and unruly Raiders-type crowd of 80,156 at the Los Angeles Coliseum. There were 31 arrests at the Coliseum on an assortment of charges, mostly for disorderly conduct. 
The Raiders became the bad 
boys of the league while playing in Oakland, where they won Super Bowls in 1977 and 1981. "Just win, baby," was the way Davis liked to describe his phi­losophy. 
The Raiders moved to Los Angeles in '82, won the '84 .Super Bowl, but went 28-35 the 
past four seasons. 

And now, with a tenacious 
defense led by Greg Townsend 
and an offense directed by 
Schroeder, the Raiders sit atop 
the AFC West. 

Last year, Schroeder, strong­
armed but Inconsistent, finished 
on the bench behind Steve 
Beuerlein. During the offsea­·son, the Raiders' quarterback situation was a hot topic. For awhile, reports had New Orleans holdout Bobby Hebert headed west. 
But Hebert's still the property 
of the Saints, and Schroeder 
has played every meaningful 
down for the Raiders. 
Schroeder earned the starting job during the summer while Beuerlein held out. 
Schroeder isn't throwing much -35 of 69 for 780 yards and two touchdowns. He's only been intercepted once. 
"I don't care bow many passes I throw," he said after completing 8-of-15 passes for 178 yards against the Bears. "My job Is to come in here and help us win football games in whatever way we can." 
So far, so good. 
After beating the Bears, Shell was talking about the lack of respect his team had been re­ceiving. 
''I've read and heard things about us being the worst 2-0 and the worst 3-0 team in the league," Shell said. "I don't care what people say and the team doesn't care. 
"It doesn't matter what any­body else thinks. The only things that matter are what this team thinks. As long as we do what we think, nothing else matters. This Is a good football team, and nobody can tell us different." 
Sounds like the Raiders are 
back, too. 
The resurgence actually be­gan a year ago Wednesday when Shell, a Hall of Fame tackle who played for Raiders from 1968-82, was named coach, replacing Mike Shanahan. 
On that day, the Raiders be­came the Raiders again. Under Shanahan, they were 8-12 In a season and four games. Shanahan came to the Raiders from Denver where he was of­fensive coordinator, and he immediately made changes. They didn't work. 
The Raiders went 7-5 under Shell in '89. The victory over the Bears was the Raiders' ninth without a loss at home since Shell took over . 

... while Steelers still seeking to score touchdown 
PITTSBURG II (AP) -Talk long it's taken the Steelers (1-each other," Dolphins safety the course we're on and It's thought It would." about your classic September 3) to learn Joe Walton's new Louis Oliver said. "The running that way for the year. We're Some Steelers say the slump swoons. Tho Pittsburgh offense, but he could have backs were barking at the line, into this and we're going that has ruined the psyche of an en-Steelors wore 0-for-tho month. meant how long it's taken to and Bubby (Brister) was telling way." ti~~ football team. , 
They won a game, all right, score a touchdown. his line, 'C'mon, protect me.' After the New York Jets fired Nobody got upset, corner-thanks to their special teams Never before in Noll's 22 sea-That gives you the OK to tee off Walton as head coach last sea-back Rod Woodson said of and defense, but how many sons had tho Steelors' offense on them." son, Noll thought he was the Sunday's game. ",We were pas­touchdowns has their offense gone throe games without The Steolers have become in-perfect choice to lead the sive. If you don t have omo­scorod in four games? scoring a touchdown. Now creasingly outspoken about a Steelers' offense-ridiculed by tlons, you're not going to do 
Zero. Zip. Zilch. they've gone four, and, counting "think and dink" offense many ~rlster hims~lf in 1988. for be-well. We were dow.n 14-0 and 
Score a touchdown? You've a touchdown-less second half of them dislike. Running back mg too predictable -mto the people _were walkmg on the got to be kidding. They didn't against Denver last January, Tim Worley doesn't like it, be-1990s. field, With th~!r head down. even como close. No wonder It's been 4 1/2 games. cause he's not getting the ball. "When you prepared for him That s nothing. opponents' game plans now call Where have all the touch-Brister doesn't like it becausP defensively, it was difficult." for taking tho opening kickoff, downs gone? he's not throwing the haJJ deep. Noll said. "He had an offense Last year, the Steelers trailed driving for a field goal and ic-The Miami Dolphins, who Noll said that really doesn't that possessed the football. 14-0 in Miami before rallying to ing the game. beat the Steelers 28-6 Sunday matter, because football teams They threw the football quite a win 34-14. 
"It's taking longer than I in a game that wasn't even that aren't democracies. bit but they also ran the foot-thought It would," coach Chuck close, think they know. "There is no possibility of ~all. Those are the things we Woodson said the answer Noll said Monday. "It got to the point where you going back (to their old of-hke to have.... But it looks like might be a players-only meet­
Noll was referring to how could hear them arguing with fense)," Noll said. "We're on it's taking longer than I ing. 
StudentGovernmentPresents... 
APull• Fonlm On Contemporary Issues 
With 



Ambassador LoretRuppe 
U.S. Ambassador to Norway, former Director of the Peace Corps 
''Frum thePeare Corps toNanmy to NotreDame" 
w~ OcLOOer3, 1990 8:00pm 'Iheodorel 
nUDE•NT 
IOflllllll 


page 16 
Special teams a dream for Chiefs 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -in Kurt Schottenheimer's spe­Marty Schottenheimer called it cial teams, which in the past a "coach's dream." But not be-two weeks have personally cause he and his brother's spe-outscored the opposition 12-3. cial teams had just humiliated Great special teams first be­the franchise and the owner came a Kansas City tradition who cast them out. under Frank Gansz five years 
"There are enough things ago. It was the brilliant per­that went wrong that we can formance of the Gansz' special spend some time coaching," teams that persuaded owner Schottenheimer said after his Lamar Hunt to fire John Chiefs embarrassed the Mackovic and put Gansz in Cleveland Browns 34-0 on charge of the entire team. Sunday. "And the ultimate re-But two disastrous years suit was a victory. That's what later, out went Gansz, back to coaches like." coaching special teams in 
It was a dominating victory, Detroit. And in came too, as the Browns suffered Schottenheimer, just forced out their worst regular-season by Browns' owner Art Modell. shutout loss in club history. One of several bones of con­For the Chiefs (3-1), it seems tention betweeen Modell and they're gaining strength and Schottenheimer was the special momentum with every passing teams, coached by Kurt. week. Kurt accompanied Marty to Washington. a TEAM that has blocked punts strategy. 
The defense did not allow a Kansas City and had a rough "They'd be saying, '29's over three games in a row, not to "I just take what they give me touchdown for the second week first year in 1989. But his spe-here, 29's over there,"' Martin mention one player," Marty and I have a lot of good players in a row and the special teams cial teams so far this year have said. "They'd give all the atten-Schottenheimer said. "He and around me who go every play blocked a punt for the third blocked five punts. tion to Albert. Albert was a de-the guys around him study it with the intent of blocking the straight game. In Sunday's Charles Washington was the coy." and they recognize the impor-kick," Lewis said. "The best game, in fact, they blocked two first to victimize Browns' No one could blame the tance of it." thing that happened was some­punts and converted them into punter Bryan Wagner, knocking Browns for concentrating on Naturally, Cleveland coach body else blocked one early and touchdowns. the ball into the arms of Chris Lewis, who still managed to Bud Carson was not pleased took some of the attention I 
"Every time, we feel we have Martin, who returned it 31 break through. with his special teams. was getting." a chance to win, that this yards for a touchdown. Despite being double-teamed, "We worked as hard practic-Lewis blocked four punts in team's as good as anybody," But Washington's job was the Pro Bowl cornerback ing on protecting the punt as 1986. said Albert Lewis, who blocked made easier by the disturbing, struggled through the middle anytime I've seen in five or six "But in 1986 it was totally a punt in each of the last three distracting presence of Lewis, just in time to knock Wagner's years," he said. "We spent different," he said. "Most of my games. "We have to play like who wears jersey No. 29. punt backward. It bounced three different periods on it. blocks in 1986 came from sheer that because we are an ascend-"Albert was on the other side, around until Kevin Ross finally We worked on the very rushes speed on the outside because ing team." and all their guys were paying grabbed it and ran four yards that they blocked them with." that was the first year we ever 
If the Chiefs have regained attention to Albert, so I got for the touchdown. Lewis was not averse to ex-did it and caught a lot of people their old magic anywhere, it's free and was right there," said "I've never been involved with plicating his punt-blocking by surprise. 

Seahawks find offense, Bengals don't, 31-16 
SEATTLE (AP) -Derrick were limited to just three Jim three previous games ana his Esiason, incurring a p~rsonal ~ohn ~-Williams' 22-ya~d run Fenner scored three touch-Breech field goals until Mitchell longest completion had been 28 foul penalty for throwmg the 10 dwhich t~ rrerrd h~ ~eld downs Dave Krieg passed for Price returned a punt 66 yards yards. Cincinnati quarterback to the an goth oc ts rtotmh bnlleg,t
' · · · h f h H 1 t h't F f tw d among ot ers, o pu e a a
two and Rufus Porter mspired for a score m t e ourt quar-e a er I enner rom o groun . . . h 
6

the defense as Seattle became ter. yards out with 3:50 left in the But even that had a positive t e 1 · . , . the last NFL team to win a Krieg meanwhile, had dinked game, Fenner's sixth TD in the effect, firing up the Kingdome Afte: :n~ s ;et~rn, kKn;~ game beating previously un-and du~ked the Seahawks to a last two games. crowd of 60,135 to a noise level marc e t e ea aw s h beat~n Cincinnati 31-16 17-9 lead after three quarters Krieg completed 17 of 24 that made it almost impossible kards for t;; findl t~~o~ed t e
1

Monday night. as Fenner scored on runs of passes for 217 yards. for Cincinnati to get a play off. ey P a~ a . -yar • tr -.own 
Porter who had two of three and four yards. Porter played just as big a Esiason completed just 10 of 23 connectiOn with Jeff ChadWick. Seattle's' three sacks was all Then on the first play of the role as the Seahawks improved for 128 yards and fumbled over the field as the S~ahawks, fourth quarter, he suddenly to 1-3 and Cincinnati dropped three snaps. ranked next-to-last in the found Tommy Kane deep on the to 3-1. Then, on the next serle.s, the league in defense entering the left sideline behind Rickey On one pivotal series with Seahawks went 56 yards I? five game, continually thwarted Dixon and hit him in stride for Seattle leading just 10-6 early plays, capped by Fenner s 3.­Boomer Esiason and the the clinching score. Krieg had in the third quarter, Porter de-yard touchdown run to make It Cincinnati offense. The Bengals thrown only one TD pass in his fleeted two passes and sacked 17-6. The drive was marked by 

Gilmore 
continued from page 20 
against some of the best com­
petition in the country." 
Gilmore chose Notre Dame from a lengthy list of inter­ested schools. Collier said the final schools were the Irish, Arizona, Texas and California­Berkeley. 
"I really liked Coach Phelps," Gilmore said. "He's been there a long time and he knows what he's talking about. I liked the atmosphere of the school. It really made me feel at home." 
Said Collier, "He had a good visit at Notre Dame. He found everything he was looking for at Notre Dame." 
.... 
Men 
continued from page 20 
All in all, the Irish defense has been the mainstay of the team, inspiring the team with its spirited play, and keeping Notre Dame in its games by shutting down the opposition's attack. 
"I think we played pretty well," Tricoci said. "This week­end we displayed the kind of de­fense we should be playing. We were really pumped up for Wisconsin. We played them tight and didn't let them get anything started." 
a unique opportunity for Math/Science 
(Majors/Minors/ Aptitudes) 
For you and for the world. Peace Corps will 
combine your education with training to pre­
pare you for a volunteer position in: • Edu­
cation • Fisheries • Health • Agriculture • 
Forestry or other areas. You'll meet new peo­
ple, learn a new language, experience a new 
culture and gain a whole new outlook. And 
while you're building your future, you'll be 
helping people in developing countries learn 
the basics of technological advancement. 





A solid effort 
Women's golf meets goal 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
The women's golf team spent a very "successful" weekend at the Spartan Invitational in Lansing, Mich., by finishing in a tie for sixth place out of a field of ten. 
With a three round team total of 971, the Irish tied Michigan for sixth in a field consisting of such teams as Northern Illinois, Michigan State, Ohio State, Purdue, Wisconsin, and Penn State. Coach Hanlon was very pleased with his team's performance. 
"It was the best we have ever done," said Hanlon. "We had an outstanding tournament." 
It was an outstanding tournament for the Irish, who beat Purdue for the first time this year and forced Michigan to come from behind to tie. The team's scores for the three rounds were 322, 316, and 333. 
Junior Pandora Fecko shot
Hanlon was happy with the scores. a team-low 74 this 
weekend at the Lady Spartan Invitational.
"We accomplished the objectives we set for the contribution to the team, but was forced to
'90-'91 season by shooting less than 320," said Ilanlon. "We did a great job and I think we are miss the second round with painful ear infec­capable of doing even better." tions. 
Junior Allison Wojnas led all Irish golfers "Everyone contributed, especially Pandora with a three-day tournament total of 244. After Fecko whose second round was outstanding," the first round, she was just seven strokes said Hanlon. "We should give the Big Ten teams behind the leader. some trouble in the future. This weekend indi­
cated that we are capable of beating those 
Senior Pandora Fecko tied for the lowest teams." round of the tournament with Wendy MacTurk Next weekend, the Irish will travel to their of Penn State with a 74 in the second round, last tournament of the fall season, the NIU while senior Hoberta Bryer finished the weekend Invitational. The 10-team field includes strong with a total of 250 after a tough second round. teams from ISU, NIU, and Kansas State. In the 
Sophomore Kathy Phares also had one tough spring, the Irish will travel to the Indiana round and finished with a total of 253. University and Purdue lnvitationals. Freshman Chrissy Klein kept pace with a 250. Hanlon is looking forward to the weekend and Sophomore Cappy Mack also made a strong the spring season. , , 
Men's golf places 11th at weekend Northern lnvttattonal 
strokes behind champion and defeated Shawn Micheel of
Special to the Observer 
Wisconsin. runner-up Indiana in a playoff. Other finishers for the Irish 
The Notre Dame men's golf Joe Dennen led the Irish with were Mike O'Connell, who shot 
team tied for 11th at the a 217 and tied for 22nd among a 218 to finish tied for 29th Northern Intercollegiate tour­the individuals. David Pashko place, Paul Nolta (225), Chris nament hosted by Purdue. The of Wright State was the medal­Dayton (226) and Mike Crisanti 
Irish shot 879 to finish just 24 ist, as he finished with a 208 
Student "Jump Start" Computer Classes 
Sponsored by: 



Office of University Computing 
~------~--~-----~--------­
--------~--------------~-­
Tuesday,Octobe~r~2~,~19~9~0~-------------------------------T~h~e~O~b~se~N~e~r~--------------------------------------------~p_ag~e---17 
Belles volleyball loses intensity, two games 

Problem: Solution: Call: 
• 
Paper due by 12:00 noon 

• 
Must use word rocessor 


• YOU DON'T KNOWHOW!! 
• 
OUC Student Training Program 

• 
Learn Macintosh and DOS word processing applications 

• 
Information Resource Center 239-8111 for information and registration 


By EILEEN McGUIRE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team lost two consecutive matches over the weekend to both Mundelien College (15-7, 10-15, 8-15, 10-15) and Illinois Benedictine College (3-15, 3­15, 15-4, 9-15). 
"We lost our concentration and focus in the match on Friday," said Head Coach Sue Medley. "There was not enough offensive power from the mid­dle; our passing averaged only 72 percent." 
On Saturday's game against IBC, despite Karen Lorton's 17 kills and Katy Killilea's 4 ser­vice aces, the team as a whole did not appear ready to play. 
"Our errors killed us," ex­plained Karen Lorton. "Against JRC WP. weren't. using our heads or playing like a team. Our practices are progressing and we are looking for a three­
game  win  over  IPFW  on  
Wednesday."  
Coach  Medley  continued,  

"Every time we had an error, we had a service error. These problems are all correctable, and if we get back into the teamwork aspect we will be fine." 
Saint Mary's has a tough match Wednesday against Division II IPFW, but Coach Medley positively stated, "Over the last week, we did improve on our blocking. Our goals are attainable and we have to keep our sight on the positive." 
The Belles next home game will be on Thursday, October 13 against Concordia College. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Tune into WVFI 640 A.M. tonight from 8-9 p.m., when Irish offensive guards Joe Allen, Winston Sandri and Tim Ryan join hosts Vic Lombardi and Eamon McAnaney. Also hear from the voice of Stanford football ... call 239­6400. 
"Walk Away" -The noontime walking program will be lead by Assistant Volleyball Coach Maria Perez today. Participants should meet in front of Washington Hall at 
12:15 for a 30-minute walk. 
NVA Horseback Riding Trip will be on Sunday, Oct. 7th. The hour long trail rides cost $15 and no experience is necessary. Buses leave at 9 a.m., 10:45 a.m. and 12:45 p.m. Register and pay in advance at NVA by Oct. 4th. 
NVA Singles Racquetball tournaments will be held for gradlfac and IH men and women. One match will be played per week. Sign up at NVA by Oct. 4th. Call 239-6100. 
NVA Co-Ree lnnertube Waterpolo sign up is taking place until Oct. 4th. Rosters must have a minimum of 10 people, four female, but are not limited by hall. A $10 entry fee is due with rosters. Only the first 32 entries will be accepted. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team defeated Western Michigan 4-0 Sunday afternoon at Saint Mary's field. Two goals were scored by Trish Troster and one each by Shannon O'Toole and Mandy Eiler. The Belles' record is· now 
7-1. 
Attention novice crew members -Mandatory meeting Thursday, Oct. 4 in 127 Nieuwland at 7:30p.m. 
Tickets for "Irish on Ice," the Oct. 8 ice-skating exhibition featuring Dorothy Hamill and benefitting the Notre Dame hockey team, are available to ND/SMC students at $4 for reserved seating and $2 for general admission. Call the Notre Dame box office at 239-7356. 

113 DIXIE WAY NORTH 
2 BUCK TUESDAY 
5 p.m. to 12:30 Any 7" Sandwich $2.00 ( 2 or more for delivery ) 
-
AL.~o FoR DEL\VERY 
CATHOLICS 
vs. 
CONVICTS 
Jb: 
T-Shirts and Neon Hats 
TAKE NO PR~-­
... 

-~----~-­
Tuesday, October 2, 1990

page 18 The Observer 
NFL 
continued from page 20 
year. Instead, they are tied with Jimmy Johnson's Dallas Cowboys (who actually have al­ready won a game this year) in the cellar. And surprisingly, the normally volatile Ryan doesn't seem upset. 
"I don't have to cuss and get on them, holler and scream, be­cause they're doing what I want done," Ryan told the Associated Press. 
The only thing they're not doing is winning. 
Across the Keystone State in Pittsburgh, the only thing the Steelers are not doing is scor­ing touchdowns. In fact, Pittsburgh's offense has yet to score a touchdown this season. 
The Steelers came up just a little bit shy of the AFC cham­pionship game last season, and this season, deposed New York Jets head coach Joe Walton was supposed to inject some life into the Pittsburgh offense. Instead, he has become a target for fan frustration; a banner in Three Rivers Stadium at Sunday's 28-6 loss to Miami said "J-?-E, where's the '0'?" 
The Steelers wish they knew. 
The Cleveland Browns are missing an '0' or two them­selves. The Browns went as far as the AFC championship game last year, but have scored just 48 points over their first four 
games. 

Injuries to key players like quarterback Bernie Kosar and fullback Kevin Mack haven't helped matters in Cleveland. Neither has the performance of an offensive line which has al­lowed Kosar to be sacked 14 times already this season. 
Coach Bud Carson is con­vinced that the Browns are not stumbling out of an era of ex­
cellence and into the AFC Central Dawghouse. Those who saw the Browns lose 34-0 to Kansas City Sunday might dis­agree.
Finally, the perennial also­ran Tampa Bay Buccaneers are off to a 3-1 start, their best since 1979. Tampa Bay "iuar­terback Vinny Testaverde has rmally come into his own, com­pleting 49 of 80 passes and recording six touchdown tosses and just two interceptions thus far. 
The Minnesota Vikings, on the other hand, who lost to the Dues on Sunday, are 1-3, mak­ing it appear as if the NFC cen­tral is turned upside-down. 
It's confusing, but as you can see, it's not the only puzzling thing going on this season in the NFL. 

APPhoiD Tampa Bay kicker Steve Christie hugs teammate Mark Royal (3) after a field goal against Minnesota. The Bucs are 3-1: are they back? 
Happy 21st Birthday Ms. Powell 



Celtics don't sign D. Johnson 
BOSTON (AP) -Dennis Johnson, a member of three NBA championship teams, has lost his spot on the Boston Celtics as the team makes a push for younger players. 
The Celtics announced Monday that Johnson will not return to the team for the up­coming season. 
Johnson, who played seven years for the Celtics, met with team officials over the week­end. They decided not to renew his contract, which expired at the end of last season. 
"This was such a difficult de­cision to make, considering the stature of Dennis Johnson," said Coach Chris Ford. "I con­sider him to be the consummate professional and a fine example for present and future Boston Celtics." 
With the return of Brian Shaw after a year in Italy, first­round draft pick Dee Brown and Reggie Lewis, Kevin Gamble and John Bagley, the Celtics have a young corps of guards to rely on during the coming season. 
The 36-year-old Johnson said in a statement that he would pursue offers from other teams. He said the Celtics offi­cials "presented this to me in the best possible way. They were up front, honest and pro­fessional with me, and gave me more consideration that I could ever imagine." 
"My years in Boston have been great ones, and I'll always remember them," Johnson said. 

Johnson was drafted by Seattle in 1976 and was the MVP of the 1979 playoffs, lead­ing the SuperSonics to their only championship. 
•

Base-hurling Clark IS suspended 
SAN DIEGO (AP)-National League President Bill White suspended San Diego Padres first baseman Jack Clark for one game and fined him an undisclosed amount for his base-throwing tantrum Sept. 26 at San Francisco. 
The disciplinary action was announced Monday in New York by the National League office. Clark is to serve the sus­pension on Tuesday. 
The Padres were in Los Angeles on Monday to open a season-ending three-game series against the Dodgers. 
Clark was ejected in the first inning of the Sept. 26 game, won by the Giants 7-6. 
The tantrum began as a growl toward plate umpire Bill Hohn after Clark was called out on strikes. 
Clark walked out to take his position in the field and began complaining after a first-pitch ball to the Giants' Brett Butler, saying Hohn had called a pitch in a similar location a strike when Clark was at the plate. 
Clark was thrown out of the game a that point but he went on to jaw at length with Hohn. 

He also threw his chewing gum at the umpire and kicked dirt on the plate before wrenching the first-base bag from its moorings and tossing it about 30 feet toward the Giants' dugout. 
The ejection was Clark's fourth of the year. 

liii!D1!JTA 

Come see our se{ection of 



greetinn cards 
6y !fCe cy c { e a '1!"6 p e r P r o c{ u c t s 
at 



THE F.B.I. AND WHITE COLLAR CRIME 
A LECTURE BY WILLIAM CLANCY, DIRECTOR OF CHICAGO FBI 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3 4:15P.M. 122 HAYES-HEALY 
ALL MAJORS WELCOME (SPONSORED BY BETA GAMMA SIGMA) 
.. 
Tuesday, October 2. 1990 The Observer page 19 
MENUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Fountain order 52 Vowel omission 29 Join 54 Domesticated
1 Fragrance Notre Dame Saint Mary's & Org. protecting ao Holliday and sa Romanian city 
Severin sen 

animals 59 Massive Veal Parmesan Veal Parmesan 32 Witch birds election
to-AngelesBeef Chimichanga Fettuccine Alfredo 33Gumbo triumphs
13 Term of
Fettucine Alfredo Beef Chimichanga endearment &2 Emerges
35 Gladden 

Deli Bar Deli victorious
14 King of comedy 37 Make almost as good as new &3 Those people 
15 Pitcher's no-no 16 North Sea isle 39Candy--64 More mature 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON under British (nurse's aide) 
65 Conducted control: 41 Had supper 
66 Positive
T\lt..i'S GOOD. 1945-52 42 Agitate 
&7 Approaches
ot-lt. ...1'NO... 18 Sidekick of 
44--do-well 

/ Amos 45 Roman tyrant 19 Monsieur, in 
DOWN 
Madrid 46 Kind of ride or stack 1 Wood for skis 
20 Leaves helpless 47 Sea birds 2 Regrets 
22Tar 48 Pa. city
24 Cous\ns of a 3 Eye amorously Ph.D. 50 R.P.I. is one 
4Chief 5 Rival of Sparta 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE and Athens 


6 Mag lie or Banda of baseball 
23 Prefers 40 Lovers' 55 Eight furlongs 7Trounce 
meetings 56 Old Icelandic &Jargon work 
25 Red quartz 43 Painter's aid 

26-amillion 

9 Pianist Previn or 57 Source of 
49 Sandy's skirts Watts 27 Attraction at 
venison Anaheim 51 Eagle's weapon 
58 Leather piercer 28 Some heavenly 52 Another Pa. city
·gardener 60 Color
bodies 

53 Honolulu's 61 Undergrad.31 Dutch genre 
island bigwigspainter 
15 Hair preparation 34 Man of Tibet, Answers to any three clues in this 
e.g.

17 W. J. Bryan was 
puzzle are available by touch-tone one 36 Bobbles the ball phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 21 Viper 38 Scents minute). 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
1'10'« T\-\~1 l'M oN TE.E­IJ\5\0N I l't-1\ 0\ffiRE.IH FROt-1\ 8/ER.'\BcD'\ 'C:lSE .' I'M FAMOUS! \M.FDR\1\t\T! 
S\1-Kt. EVE:R'{ONE KNClWS ME, 8Jffi'{I\{\NG r t>o 
NC)W \5 Nt.W5WORIW(. I'M A CUliVRf>.L ICON. 
\ 




SECOND CITY TOURING CO. 
WASHINGTON BALL THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1990 
8:00PM 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE INFORMATION 
STUDENT UNION BOARD
DESK!!! GENERAL ADMISSION $5 EACH 
.. 
-~--­



Sports 
Tuesday, October 2, 1990
page 20 
Road-tested, coach-approved 
Women's soccer improves to 8-2-1 after two road wins 
By DAVID DIETEMAN she said. "I liked playing up front. It was a Sports Writer chance for me to get to contribute to the scor­ing. I usually play in the midfield, and this was a 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team (8-2-1) nice chance for me to play off of the forward. took another step up on the ladder to regional "All of the upperclassmen have been really re­prominence this weekend, notching road wins sponsive to all the freshmen. They support us in over Indiana and Louisville. what we do, and they are there for us when we 
On Friday afternoon, the Irish defeated need anything. They have helped the morale of perennial rival Indiana 5-0 behind the goal­the team a lot. Since everyone is so positive, we scoring tandem of freshmen Stephanie Porter have felt good about every game. Also, we're (three goals) and Alison Lester (two goals). On proud of our progress on the team and what Sunday, Lester tallied Notre Dame's only goal, this team will become. Our attitude shows in our as the Irish tripped Louisville 1-0. record." 
"We desperately needed a couple of wins on Against Indiana, Notre Dame fired off 36 the road," said Notre Dame head coach Chris shots and eight corner kicks. Marianne Giolitto, Petrucelli. "We really wanted to prove that we Alison Lester, and Margaret Jarc each had one could win on the road, since we had been 1-2-1 assist for Notre Dame, while Susie Zilvitis had away from home before this weekend. These two. The Hoosiers, on the other hand, were held games had good results for us. To get out on to eight shots and one corner kick, as the Irish the road and come home with two shutouts and jumped out to a 4-0 halftime advantage. two wins is good. "Defensively, we made a couple of mistakes 
"After the first ten minutes against Indiana, early, but we recovered well," stated Petrucelli. we moved Stephanie Porter forward to try to "The whole wee"'kend was very good for us. get her a chance on the attack," said Petrucelli. Gennifer Kwiatowski has played very well at "Obviously, it worked, because she got three sweeper in the last couple of games." goals. The difference this weekend was that we In the game against Louisville, the Notre talked about crossing goals to the far post." 
Dame defense again came through, holding the 
Stephanie Porter, who nailed the game-win­Cardinals to two shots. ning score against Indiana, concurred with her "On defense, the backfield played very well,"
coach. 
admitted Petrucelli. "I also think that our dP.­
"We tried a new approach this weekend-we focused on crossinsz the ball to the far nost." see WOMEN I page 13 
Torrents, tie keep men's soccer at bay 
By RICH KURZ After a 20-minute delay, the not two. They had controlled Sports Writer officials called the game, ren­the game, but we had a feeling." dering it unofficial since NCAA The storyline in the Wisconsin 
After embarking on what was rules stipulate that the full 90 game is getting to he all too to he one of the most important minutes must he played for the familiar to Notre Dame soccer road trips of the year, the game to count. fans. The Irish defense played Notre Dame men's soccer team Although Notre Dame was superbly, helping goalkeeper (2-6-2) came back from its behind 1-0 at the time the game Peter Gulli get his second ca­two-game trip essentially the was called, the Irish had played reer shutout while lowering his way it left, with only a scoreless well to that point. Hoosier for­goals-against average to a very tie to show for its efforts. ward Ken Snow was aiming to respectable 1.49. 
The games with Indiana and score his 78th career goal, Offense, however, was an­Wisconsin were to be measur­which would have put him atop other story. Once again, the ing marks for the Irish club. the Indiana record book, hut Irish were unable to get on the Indiana, ranked ninth in the was shut down by the Notre scoreboard, extending their Soccer America poll, are the Dame defense. scoreless streak to four games possessors of a powerful of­"We put Bret Hoffman on (five including the Indiana fense, highlighted by three-time him, and he did a good job, like game). Over that stretch Notre All-American Ken Snow, who we knew he would," said Dame has compiled an 0-3-1 was shooting to break the IU sophomore defender Mario record. career-goal record against Tricoci. "We were not going to "It's pretty frustrating," said Notre Dame. Meanwhile, the let Snow score his record­Pendergast. "I think we're ca­Badgers are a much better breaking goal against Notre pable of scoring goals. It's team than their 3-4-2 record Dame. It was a matter of more a question of confidence indicates. pride." than anything else. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, The cancelling of the game "We had a couple of chances, they had a tremendous effort was a blow to the Irish players, one at the end of regulation against the Hoosiers wasted who still were hanging tough and a couple in overtime. [Our when the game was called due when the news arrived. style] isn't meant to be defen­to heavy lightning. Just under "It was a big let-down," said sive, hut we've been playing it 20 minutes remained when play forward Kevin Pendergast. that way." was suspended because of the "The team felt like we would approaching front. get at least one goal back, if see MEN 1 page 16 


The ObMrver I Ken Osgood Danny Stebbins and the men's soccer team had a game called vs. Indiana due to lightning, and in its second game tied Wisconsin 0-0. 
Basketball gets verbal intent from Texas star 
Gilmore averaged 15 points, By GREG GUFFEY nine rebounds and three blocks Sports Editor per game as a junior while the 
young Rattlers posted a 7-19 
The Notre Dame basketball record. Every player on the San team has received a verbal Marcos team will return for the commitment from a 6-9 for­1990-91 season. ward from San Marcos, Texas. At 6-9 and 215 pounds, 
Nathion Gilmore, a senior at Gilmore should make an impactSan Marcos High School, will with the Irish. Collier compares play for the Irish in the 1991-him in some ways to Irish 92 season. The early signing standout LaPhonso Ellis. period begins Nov. 14. "I think Nathion will look up 
"I think I'm a pretty good to him and pattern his game player and that I can help them after him," Collier said. on the court," Gilmore said. "I Gilmore, who plans to major can rebound, block shots and in business, agrees with score while playing the pivot. Collier's assessment. But I also think I'm pretty good "We're both 6-9," Gilmore in the classroom, too." said. "He's (Ellis} worked trnrd 
"Nathion is a great athlete," to get where he's at. I'm going said San Marcos coach Celester to have to do the same thing. Collier. "He sees the floor well. I'll have to work hard and play He's a good rebounder. He can jump well and blocks a lot of shots." 
see GILMORE I page 16 

It's a mixed-up NFL these days 
Roughly one-After recording a 28-35 record over the fourth of the past four seasons, the Raiders were not National Football expected to be sitting alone atop the League regular sea­competitive AFC West, especially with Denver son has been com­coming off a strong season and the Kansas pleted, and very few City Chiefs playing their best football since things are making the Len Dawson days. sense. But the Raiders have used a tough defense 
About the only and punishing ground attack to win their thing that isn't a Ken Tysiac first four games, and with Bo Jackson soon surprise at this to return from his baseball duties with the point is that the San Kansas City Royals, L.A. may be tough to Francisco 49ers are World of Sports unseat. unbeaten. As you In Philadelphia, meanwhile, the Eagles are 
make a random sampling of NFL cities, you 1-3 after losing to the lowly Indianapolis will find a lot of people who are puzzled Colts on the last play of the game Sunday. As about their teams' performances to date this if that wasn't enough, Eagle quarterback fall. Randall Cunningham has told reporters that 
In Los Angeles, Raiders fans are hard-nosed coach Buddy Ryan is "getting wondering how their team reached the top of more and more humble. I wish he'd go back the AFC West. The Raiders seem to have to his old crazy self." rediscovered their Commitment to Excellence Buddy Ryan humble? What would Mike under coach Art Shell. The fans even seem Ditka say about that? more like the raucous Raider fans of old; The Eagles were supposed to challenge the there were 31 arrests at the Coliseum Sunday New York Giants for the NFC East title this in L.A.'s 24-10 triumph over the Chicago 
see NFL I page 18
Bears. 






