
VOL. XXIII NO. 7 TUESDAY , SEPTEMBER 4, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush leads hunt to find aid for Iraqi campaign 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush is dispatching two high-level missions this week on a global search for billions of dollars to support the economic and military campaign against Saddam Hussein -a strategy some say is unbecoming of a superpower. 
One delegation, led by Trea­sury Secretary Nicholas Brady, leaves Tuesday for stops in Paris, London, Seoul, South Korea and Tokyo, passing the plate in search of as much as $25 billion to help defray the expense of the American troop deployment and to aid nations suffering hardships from the economic embargo against Iraq. 
Secretary of State James Baker leaves later in the week on a similar whirlwind trip looking for assistance in the capitals of oil-rich Persian Gulf countries. 
Bush announced the burden sharing effort just last Thurs­day and on Monday officials were still scrambling to put to­gether itineraries for the hastily scheduled trips. 
The fact that Bush was send­ing two of his closest Cabinet advisers served to emphasize the importance the president was attaching to the task of getting other countries to share the burden. However, adminis­tration officials conceded that the sales job was not going to be easy. 
Bush's effort has also raised questions about the propriety of issuing a global call for do­nations to support the U.S. military. Critics charged that it left the appearance that Amer­ica's soldiers are up for hire as mercenaries. 
"I don't want to leave any impression in the world that we pay for our soldiers and our 
see BUSH I page 4 


Koreas begin peace talks 
PANMUNJOM, Korea (AP) -The group is the first to cross North Korean Prime Minister the border since 198S and only Yon Hyong Muk and 90 of his the third delegation to travel to countrymen crossed the heavily the South since the end of armed Korean border into World War II in 1945. South Korea on Tuesday for a South Korean Prime Minister historic visit aimed at easing Kang Young-boon was to meet four decades of hostilities. the North Koreans at a luxury 
Yon and the six official North hotel near Olympic Park, offi-Korean delegates to the cia] headquarters for the talks. premiers' talks were welcomed The premiers' meeting is seen by their South Korean counter-as a new phase in capitalist parts at the truce village of South Korea's efforts to coax Panmunjom inside the Demilita-the totalitarian Communist rized Zone separating the rival North out from four decades of Koreas. isolation and begin a thaw in 
"A Korean proverb says a their Cold War. thousand miles start with a South Korean officials say first step," said South Korean the meeting will be the first in Unification Minister Hong which both sides recognize the Sung-chul, who was among legitimacy of each other's gov-those to greet the visitors. ernments. North Korea has 
The North Koreans were given bouquets of flowers, a steadfastly refused to recognize traditional Korean gift of the Seoul government since the friendship, and tea, before be-Koreas established separate ing escorted to South Korean-capitals in 1948. made sedans for a 35-mile trip During the visit, the North south to Seoul. Korean prime minister is ex-
A military helicopter hovered pected to make a courtesy call overhead as the motorcade of of South Korean President Roh 12 cars and three buses pre-Tae-woo, possibly delivering a pared to move south toward letter from North Korean Seoul. leader Kim Il Sung. 
If all goes well, a second round of talks is to be held Oct. 16-19 in North Korea's capital of Pyongyang. 
"The Korean peninsula still remains in the grip of the Cold War era that has placed South and North Korea in a state of mutual distrust and confronta­tion," said Unification Minister Hong Sung-chul, spokesman for the South Korean delega­tion. 
"This continued national tragedy should not be permitted to go on endlessly," he said. "Every effort must be made to establish regular dialogue be­tween the two sides." 
The Korean peninsula was di­vided at the end ef World War II into the Communist North and capitalist South. The two sides fought the 1950-53 Ko­rean War but a peace treaty was never signed. 
The border between the Ko­reas remains the most heavily fortified permanent demarca­tion in the world, with more than 1.5 million armed men on either side behind bunkers and barbed wire. There is no travel, mail or other communication . 

~ Police said they have eight Campus life was returmnito 
··normal Mot:tday. for _many Qollege students frightenedJ1y a.strin~ ()f mutilation 111urders, but polic!'l warn,ed that the}dlle:r could still be on the looSth . . . 
Students Jeturning tothe University of ,Florida for the seeond .. Week ofclasses said tbey were less.worried than they were)ast week by the deaths of five students who were: found slain· in their apartments,
«All yoq.r;an do.is_be>very tarefuL. I'm .usually. in l1lY room before dark/~ said Ava, a Sol).ht>m()l'e from Fort Lauderdale who. refUS~:J>d to 
give hf!r lasb1ame. ··· ·· · . ·"Everyone J know bl. calm• ing down,;' .said Aaron So~ 
tala. 20.. asophomoreJrom C(Jpper Harlwr, l\.flch,··. ''lt .has been almost week, hut ther .still te1l.Sion on the. 

Survey: educators disagree about role of ethics 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 
According to a report submit­ted to University Provost Ti­mothy O'Meara, some faculty members of the College of Business Administration are not in favor of integrating ethics into business courses taught at the University. 
The report was presented by the Committee to Review the Ethical Dimension of Education at the University of Notre Dame. According to the report, this committee was formed to "make recommendations with regard to ethics in the curricu­lum and programs of the vari­ous departments and colleges." 
To assist in its findings, the committee sent a faculty survey to 83 faculty members of the College of Business Administra­tion. Only 38 of them were re­turned. According to the report, "One interpretation of nonre­sponse to this survey is lack of interest or support for this idea." 
Committee chair Father Oliver Williams, associate provost and associate said that he finds this lack of response "very troubling." 
Representatives of the College of Business Administration could not be reached for com­ment. 
Williams does not believe that all of the nonresponse is due to faculty apathy. Instead, he said, "in looking back, I think we should have been more aggres­sive in our data gathering." 
"From my experience, I would say that there is maybe 20 per­cent of the Business School faculty who would show apa­thy, but even that concerns me," Williams said. 


According to the faculty sur­vey, more than 70 percent of the faculty members responding do include ethical issues in their classes. Nearly 60 percent of the faculty members said that a discussion of ethical issues facing business managers should be integrated into the College of Business curriculum, either as a part of all business courses or in a separate 
course. 
Another faculty survey· was sent to all faculty members of the College of Engineering. Ap­proximately 40 percent of these surveys were not returned. 
According to the survey, less than SO percent of the faculty members responding do not in­clude ethical issues in the classes they teach. However, more than SO percent of the faculty members believe that 'a discussion of ethical issues fac­ing engineers and architects should be treated in a separate ethics course, either exclusively or along with discussion ih regular engineering courses. 
In response to these statis­tics, James Taylor, associate dean of the College of Engineer­ing, said Monday, "Some pro­fessors who teach Advanced Math or a course which is highly technical would not think that a discussion of ethics is part of an appropriate course." 
The survey sent to the College of Engineering faculty also asked for general comments suspects, but warned resi~ dents against dropping their 
guard. 
"Students should know that the killer has not been apprehended -the killer is not in. custody -and assume that person or persons is still in the area," Lt. Sadie Darnell, a police spokeswoman, said Monday. 
Police said an emotionally troubled University of Florida freshman, in custody in Brevard County for al-, legedly assaulting his grandmother. remained a suspect. 

Edward Lewis Humphrey was held on $1 million bond . Public Defender J.R. Russo said he would seek a hearing Tuesday to request reduced the bond. 
see BOND I page 8 

•


1n courses 
about the role of the professor in discussing ethics. Comments ranged from "Not feasible," to "Irrelevant!" 

With regard to these com­ments, Taylor said "I like to think that, if it comes up in class discussion in some way, they would handle the issue." 
Williams believes that some of these responses may be due to the increasing specialization of faculty. "Very good scholars get intensified in one particular area, and they forget the broader implications of their actions." he said. 
Another factor, according to Williams, may be that, "A lot of faculty members think 'They can think these things out for themselves.'" Williams dis­agrees with that. "The world is now so complex that you need 
see ETHICS/ page 8 


r 
page 2 
The Observer Tuesday, September 4, 1990 
INSIDE CoLUMN 
Reading between the 'lines' at ND 

It's that time of year again. Now that the bookstore has a chunk of each of our bank accounts, the athletic department wants its turn. That's right, it's time to get 


foo!ball tickets. . Robyn Simmons 
Right now we are m t?e middle of the fall Asst. Accent Edito 
ntual where thou-r 
sands of students line up around the JACC in order to get their season tickets for the home football games. There really is no way to get around this; I doubt that we could use the DART system to get tickets without blowing a few circuits. 
As a senior at Notre Dame, I have learned that this school loves lines. I have spent more time in lines at this school than I have anywhere else, whether it was for the dining hall, the Mac Lab, the bookstore, registra­tion, Keenan Revue tickets, or-in the days before DART-signing up for classes. 
Since lines are an inevitable part of life at Notre Dame, I thought I'd look at the more positive aspects of waiting in line for foot­ball tickets, especially for those of you who might be waiting in line while reading this. 
IT'S CHARACTER BUILDING: By the time you've graduated from Notre Dame, you will have waited in so many lines that wait­ing in line will not faze you in the least. 
Most people get grumpy and irritable waiting in line, but a seasoned line-waiter can wait for two hours for concert tickets and still be able to say, "This is nothing compared to the time I had my face smashed into the door while trying to get Keenan Revue tickets." 
BONDING: Lots of bonding. Waiting in line for football tickets isn't so bad when you've got all of your friends with you, and what a better way to meet new people than while you're spending the night camped out in front of JACC. Probably the best way to make new "friends" while waiting in line for football tickets is to be the first in line. 
TICKET TO THE MIAMI GAME: All of the home games should be exciting but the Mi­ami ticket is the one that will have the Alumni and other fans groveling. Don't be surprised if you see a few middle aged men in plaid pants on their knees begging for tickets on the day of the Miami game. 
As students, we are guaranteed tickets to this football showdown. The Miami ticket will give each student a chance to make Notre Dame history-or a tremendous profit. 
So enjoy the wait while you're in line for tickets, and be thankful you're at a school where the football program is worth lining up for. And a special thanks to Lou Holtz for personally delivering donuts yesterday morning to the seniors who camped out the night before. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



-Ih_.e-Obse.~~r­
-----.1..-=Y~'-' -·· 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 

Today's Slaff: 
News Spor1s SystemS 
Monica Yant Frank Pastor Jon Stewart 
PeteYob Dave Dieteman Amalia Meier Scoreboard: Scott Brutucao 
Accent Graphics 
Alison Cocks Mike Muldoon Paige Smoron Producllon Colleen Cronin Beth Peterson (;lrculatlon 
Christine Anderson Kathleen O'Conner Ad Design John O'Brian Amy Eckert VieWpOint Alison Cocks Kathleen O'Connor Michelle Dall 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 4. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's high: 81 
Yesterday's low: 57 
Nation's high: 110 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) 
Nation's low: 29 (Truckee, Calif.) 
Forecast: Partly sunny and warm today, with a high in the mid-80s. Partly cloudy tonight with a low in fhe mid-60s. Partly sunny and warm tomorrow with a high in the mid-80s. 


FRONTS: 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc.
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
h

® © ~~3 ~ m ~ F:x:~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST The He!fburgh Program in public sen·ice will Best Buddies, a new organization which will in-have an organizational meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m., in volve children from Logan Center, will have a mandatory 
the Hesburgh Library Lounge. All Hesburgh Program stu-meeting on Wednesday, September 5 at 7 p.m. at the Cen­dents should attend to elect officers and plan the 1990-91 ter for Social Concerns. If you have any questions call colloquium, discuss speakers series and a newsletter. Julie at 283-1367. 
Students can register to vote for the up­WVFI, AM 640, is looking for disc jockeys. Any coming third congressional district election tonight at the freshman or upperclassman interested should obtain an Student Activities Night. The registrar will be at the Col­application at Activities Night or from the office at Suite lege Democrats' desk from 6:45-8:30 p.m .. 200 in LaFortune. Applications are due by midnight, 
September 6. 

Pre-Law Society will be holding a seminar on writing an effective personal statement tonight at 7 p.m. Black Cultural Arts Council meets Wednes­in the Library Auditorium with Professor Marullo. All se­day, September 5, in Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. niors are encouraged to attend. 
NDE past participants, we need palanca for 
Junior Class Cruise is CQ¥ling~ckets wUI go NDE #14 September 7-9. Please drop them off at the on sale September 6 in the Junior Class Office; 2nd floor Campus Ministry Office in the Library. If you have any LaFortune. questions contact Sister Dorothy at 239-7800. 


WORLD 
Pope John Paul II yester­The city of Chelyabinsk in the U.s.s.R., day, on the third day of a 1 0-day, which was wracked by shortages of food, tobacco and al­four-nation African pilgrimage, criss­cohol, suffered more woes yesterday when bus drivers crossed Tanzania, flying from the In­went on strike, the Tass news agency reported from dian Ocean port city of Dar Es Salaam Moscow. The drivers, whose demands include higher to the southern town of Songea wages, longer vacations, retirement at age 55 and better then to this northern city on the edge ho_using, _agreed to return to work later in the day, Tass of Lake Victoria. John Paul spoke said. It did not elaborate on their demands. The buses in bluntly of Africa's problems and the southern Ural Mountains city of about 1 million peo­hardships -a common ple are old, with no spare parts, and the regional transit theme in his seven visits to the continent. About 25,000, au_thority loses about $35 million a year, the news agency many waving Tanzanian and Vatican flags, attended the said. Mass in a dirt field in the middle of the African savannah. The pope spoke in English, with several passages of Swahili mixed in, from an altar with a bamboo backdrop. 
NATIONAL 
Lax laws governing day-care centers in v· t 11 11 th · . 
many states are failing to protect children, the Children's lr ua Y a .ose COnVICted of savmgs ~nd Defense Fund said yesterday. The fund said its national loan fraud _are first-bme offenders, but .they ar~ gettmg survey of child-care centers and day-care homes shows h~rs~er pnson ~entences .than the typical white-collar "inexcusable failures to protect the health and safety of cnmmal, accordmg to. Justic.e Department figures. T~ere children." The report urged support for legislation pend-were 128 P.eople conVIcted smce Oct. 1988, wh? recetved ing in Congress that would provide $1.75 billion In federal average pnso? ~entences of 3.2 year~. accordmg to de­funds for child care, expand tax credits for low-income partment statistics. That compar.es WI~h an average 2.5 working families, and guarantee parents the right to years for all fede~al fraud cases, mcludmg _embezzlement make unannounced visits. and forgery. Thirty-seven of those convicted for S&L 
crimes since Oct. 1988 have not been jailed. 
INDIANA ALMANAC 

A Hobart man drowned in Lake 
On September 4:
Michigan yesterday after rescuing a young 
woman who got into water over her head, 
officials said. Robert Frybort Jr., 32, was e In 1929: Eight killed as 
Transcontinental Air Transport downed 
swimming at the Washington Park beach on the 
by lightning over New Mexico.
north side of Michigan City when he saw the other 
e In 1936: Popular front repre­
swimmer in trouble about 12:30 p.m. "He went 
senting Basques and Catalonians re­
out to assist, got her into shallower water then 
places Giral Cabinet in Spain.
stepped into a deep trough, went under and 
e In 1945: Reports indicate that
drowned," according to conservation officer 
A-bomb fallout in Hiroshima is still
Wilson Davis. 

killing at least 100 a day.Three Petersburg natives will e In 1957: Militia bars nine return to their hometown this fall to shoot a 90-blacks from Little Rock white high 



URIVE STRAIGHT, 

minute documentary focusing on the town's school on governor's orders. 

INDIANA. 

recovery from a tornado's destruction. Howard e In 1964: Chilean moderate 


Brisco Jr. and Clint Allen, both of Hollywood, Eduardo Frei Montalva chosen presi­
Calif., and Tedd Klipsch of Evansville were dent over People's Front candidate 
Salvador Allende.
inspired by the town's devastation in June to tell 
the story of the plight of small communities in the 
United States. 

Tuesday, September 4, 1990 
South Bend kids need Big Brothers/Sisters 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
The Big Brothers/Big Sisters of St. Joseph County, Inc. gives Notre Dame students the op­portunity to form relationships that can benefit and influence children of the South Bend area. 
According to organization president, David Jones, the re­lationship between the "big" and "little" resembles "friend" and "role model". 
Jones says that scheduling 2­5 hours a week for his little brother has required some ef­fort; however, Jones has learned that relationships do not just h11.ppen, they take time to build. "It also gives students a chance to leave their books behind and be a kid for a while," Jones said. 
Twelve year old Atlantis Walker is a little brother. Walker and his big brother often spend their time together going to ND athletic events, doing homework, watching TV and going to the mall. 
"Spending time with my big brother gives me something to do during the time I would be getting in trouble," Walker 
said. 
Walker's grades have gone from F's to B's and C's, and he attributes this to the influence of his big brother. Because of his big brother, Walker says he now knows that good grades and going to college are impor­tant in order to get a good job. 
Currently, there are 106 chil­dren matched up with a big brother/big sister in St. Joseph County. Still, 142 children are currently on a waiting list to be matched. 
All freshman, sophomores and juniors are eligible to sign up for Big Brothers/Big Sisters. Each applicant for Big Broth­ers/Big Sisters is required to go through a screening process. 
A one-year commitmPnt. .is necessary in order to give enough time for n~lationships to form. 
Anycne nterested in becom­ing aBig Brother or a big Sis­ter, can stop by the booth on activities night at the J -\CC or call the South Bend office at 232-9958. 


The Observer/Eric Bailey 

Doing it for fun 
Clement Yoo (right) prepares to don his welding mask and assist classmate Jason Alcala with a project in their fine arts class. This class is just one example of the many interesting elective classes available. 

Give to the United Way. 

By FRANK GAUL 
News Writer 
The Student Senate on Mon­day began the 1990-91 session discussing the proposed Video Store in LaFortune, upcoming events sponsored by the Multi­cultural Executive Council, and some recommendations con­cerning the use of Theodore's for the remainder of the school 'year. 
Steve Perkins, proposed man­
was 

given a si>. thousand dollar do­nation from the Carry Forward Fund to help finance this en­deavor. He hopes to include five--hundred videos within the new store, which will be located in the space formerly occupied by the Cellar record store. 
The representative from the Multicultural Executive Council announced that next week will be African Awareness Week (AAW) at the University. The purpose of the-week is to ex­pose the student body to 
such as a fireside chat at Theodore's. 
Joe Cassidy, director of stu­dent activities, announced that Theodore's is available for weekend reservations for any student-sponsored activities. Student groups can get more information about Theodore's from the Student Activities of­fice. 
Cassidy also announced that comedian Tim Settimi will be performing at Theodore's this 
You're not alone. In fact, there are over 200 crazy people 
working to produce The Observer every week. Come out of your shell and join us-­we're always looking for new talent. Stop by our table tonight at Activities Night from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. 

Be a part of it. 

The Observer/Eric Bailey 
Senior Pictures 

John Kennedy posed for his senior portrait yesterday. Kennedy appeared to be dressed appropriately, both for his picture and for the warm weather that continued in the South Bend area yesterday. The forecast calls for even warmer weather through the week-end, with showers possible later in the week. 
Protestors halt N.J. casino traffic 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) ­Protesters demanding more parks blocked traffic into this gambling center, delaying thou­sands of Labor Day travelers on the casinos' busiest day of the year. 
Police arrested 25 black ac­tivists out of the approximately 250 who demonstrated on be­half of what they called "the forgotten youth of Atlantic City." Leaders of the group said 
Bush 
continued from page 1 
sailors if we send them into an­other part of the world only through another country's money," said Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt. "This is not a rent military. It's not a mercenary force." 
Leahy said a better approach to take would be to boost taxes if necessary to pay for the Per­sian Gulf buildup. 
Bush has vigorously rejeCted suggestions that putting pres­sure on the allies for money to support the U.S. military was improper and he has received support for this position from other members of Congress. 
"The Japanese have a hell of a stake in this and they ought to pay a hell of a share," said Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J. 
Many congressmen noted that 

Japan and many countries in they would extend their protests through the week and disrupt the Miss America Pageant, which has its finals televised live Saturday night. 
They called for more recre­ational sites and an end to al­leged police brutality. Negotia­tions broke off last week be­tween the group and Mayor Jim Whelan, a former teacher who says he wants to work with 
Europe are more dependent on the flow of oil from the Persian Gulf than the United States is. 
Still, many private analysts saw the pledge-seeking mis­sions as stark examples of where America's global for­tunes now stand. 
As the world's largest debtor nation, burdened by huge trade and budget deficits, the United States no longer has the eco­nomic muscle to go it alone. 
"We are no longer the eco­nomic super power we used to be," said Lawrence Chimerine of the Economic Strategy Insti­tute, a Washington research organization. "Our changing role in the world economy is clearly in evidence here." 
In launching the burden sharing initiative last week, Bush maintained that the "shape of the post-Cold War world" was at stake in the Per­sian Gulf crisis. 


COME JOIN THE FUN AT THE ANNUAL 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
TONIGHT 
JACC FIELDHOUSE 
7:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. 
SPONSORED BY THE 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS: NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 

them but refuses to be pres­sured bv demonstrations. 
Police. oil motorcycles, in cars and a helicopter watched as the demonstrators marched through the slums that abut the glittering Boardwalk strip of casinos and hotels, 
Shortly before 1 p.m., the marchers blocked traffic com­ing into town on the Atlantic City. Expressway, forcing offi­cers to temporarily divert traf­fic to side streets. 
Eight of the marchers, includ­ing the Rev. Al Sharpton, who has been active in black com­munity protests in New York and elsewhere, sat down. 
Twenty-five people, including Sharpton, were arrested, said mayoral aide Lou Tuscano. Most of the arrests were for being disorderly; two were for aggravated assault for throw­ing things at officers. 
Sharpton and local group or­ganizer Steve Young also were charged with incitement to riot 
for allegedly telling others to cross police barricades. 

Tuesday, September 4, 1990 

Homeless sophomore returns to Stanford U. 
OXNARD, Calif. (AP) -Lupe 
Vasquez is spending the waning 
days of summer with her family 
-farm workers who live in a 
ramshackle homeless shelter on 
the edge of town. 
This fall, she'll return to 
Stanford University, where she 
hopes to maintain her B-plus 
average as a sophomore study-. 
ing science and engineering. 
''I'd like to think the second 
year will be easier. But I don't 
think so," the 18-year-old said. 
''I'm going to have harder 
classes and a heavier load." 
When she graduated second 
in a class of 397 students from 
Oxnard High School in June 
1989, she was accepted by six 
California universities. She 
chose Stanford because she 
thought it had the best science 
program. 
Stanford, with annual costs 
topping $21,000, also is the 
most expensive university in the 
state. She's using private 
scholarships, state and federal 
grants and loans to pay for her 
education, and she's saving 
money from her two summer 
jobs. 
On a recent weekday, the 
teenager sat at a table in the 
enclosed patio of a family 
friend's home, studying calculus 
and listening to Spanish pop 
music. 
"I don't even want to remem­
ber my first year, it was so 
hard," she recalled with a gri­
mace. "My brain was just going 
all the time. I could never get to 
sleep before three in the morn­
ing. And finals were just awful. 
"The first two to three weeks 
I really felt homesick," said 
Vasquez. "I wanted to see my 
mom. I wanted to go back to 
the Zoe." 
That's the Zoe Christian Cen­ter, a former Japanese intern­ment camp that is now a home­less shelter. 
Vasquez's mother, stepfather and four younger siblings have shared crowded rooms there for two years, struggling to save enough to rent an apart­ment in town. 
Vasquez spent the first few weeks of summer at the shelter, home to about 150 people, mostly couples and single mothers with children. 
She found it hard to concen­
trate and took a room in her 
former high school counselor's 
home. She finds time to visit 
her family almost daily. 
"I lived in an unsettled situa­tion for years," Vasquez said. "And I just found I couldn't re­turn to an unstable condition." 
That lack of balance began when Vasquez was two years old and her mother and father separated. The mother, Maria Leyva, left Chihuahua, Mexico, bringing her two eldest daugh­ters, Lupe and Virginia, with her to Mirage, Ariz. 
Leyva, 39, said Lupe has loved school ever since she entered kindergarten at age four. Leyva's schooling ended with fifth grade. 
"Even when Lupe was sick she forced herself to go to her classes," Leyva said in Spanish. "She was born to study." 
Soon, little Lupe was carrying armfuls of library books home to the succession of crowded apartments and boarding house rooms her family shared. 
Leyva met her second hus­band in the onion fields. The couple had three children to­gether. 
For years, the family of seven moved with the crops through­out Arizona. They eventually landed about 60 miles north­west of Los Angeles in Oxnard, where Vasquez spent her last two years of high school. 
This summer, Vasquez works at a bank in the afternoons. In the mornings, she works for the California Rural Legal As­sistance doing research on the effects of pesticides on farm workers. 


BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS of Notre Dame/SMC 
ckde «4-cud at 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT TONIGHT, JACC 7:00PM 
You're needed to care. Do The Right Thing. 
For More Info. Call David Jones 237,1983 

T__ue_s_d_a~y~,S_e~p_t_em__b~er_4~·-1~9~9~0--------------------------~~~T~h~eObseNer 
Radical Goldman's life story will be told 
:)pecial to The Observer 
"Emma Goldman" will be pre­sented Wednesday, Sept. 5 at 
3:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Li­brary Auditorium. The pro­gram, performed by Michele Colopy, is free and open to the public. 
Goldman was an early twenti­eth century pioneer and a champion of free speech, re-
Crash injures two politicians 
FALLON, Nev. (AP)-A light plane crash Monday seriously injured two candidates in Nevada's primary election, au­thorities said. One person was killed in the election-eve acci­dent. 
The injured included Sue Wagner, a candidate for lieu­tenant governor, and Bob Seale, who is running for state treasurer. 
Seale, a licensed pilot, was flying the plane, said Churchill County Sheriff Bill Lawry. 
The Republicans were among five people aboard a twin­engine Cessna 411 that crashed shortly after takeoff from the Fallon, Nev., municipal airport, about 60 miles east of Reno, the sheriff said. The plane was 
.................................................................... 
i
•
:
•
: (CMPUSi MINISTRY 
• Be sure to visit our booth at Student Activities Night Tonigh_t!
• 
:. Information night for the Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults. 
• 
7:00 PM, ND Room, 2nd floor LaFortune

•t 
Eucharistic Presiders at Sacred Heart Church this weekend: 


+ Saturday, September 8, 5:00PM-Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C.
i 
Sunday, September 9, 10:00 AM-Mass for the Opening of the Academic Year. ~ Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
• Sunday, September 9, 11:45 AM -Rev. Thomas McDermott, -c.s.c.
• 
September 7-9: NDE 114. Be mindful and prayerful of those making the retreat this week-end. 
Thank you for stopping at our welcome tent on August 24th
:
: 
•
: 
!•i L.S. AYRES HAIR SALON 
: BONNIE DOON ICE CREAM 
•
I~~US~Y 
:
•
: 
• FRANK'S RED HOI'S 
I • 
• 
• • • 
tGENE'S PRODUCE 
.................................................................. 
productive rights, peace and free love as well as a labor ac­tivist labeled an anarchist by the U.S. government. 
She was deported in 1919 for her crusade against U.S. in­volvement in World War I and spent the remaining 21 years of her life in exile. 
During the month of Septem­ber, an accompanying Emma Goldman exhibit of her letter 
carrying the candidates to Car­son City from fallon, where they attended a Labor Day pa­rade. 
It appeared the plane's right engine lost power and the pilot was trying to make it back to thH airport when the crash oc­curred shortly after 12:30 p.m. in a grassy area about a mile from the airport. The plane was badly damaged and wit­nesses said one of its wings was sheared off. 
Officials who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity said Seale's wife, Judy, was killed in the crash. Lawry confirmed one death, but withheld the victim's name pending notification of family members. 
Two other passengers, 

Campus Ministry-Badin Hall Congratulations to the following door prize winners and special thanks to the local merchants for the gifts provided 
The gifts may be picked up at Camvus Ministry -Badin Hall 
John Babka. Sorin Maura Gallagher, Walsh 
Dan Kabele, St. Edward's Jim Callahan, Keenan Trina Chapman, Howard Keri Poeppe, Knoll 
Robin Ausanka, Pasquerilla-West Pat Cady, Morrissey Catherine Danahy, Walsh Kevin Hefferman, Old College Michelle Kerwin, Breen-Phillips Pete Kuzmich, Morrissey John Maxwell, Keenan Tom McDerrnoll, Morrissey Sherri Orlosky, Howard Pani Pierson, Walsh 
Liam Brockey, Morrissey Scott Dressman, Keenan John Herman, Moreau Stephen Holthaus, Pangborn 
Joh~ Hu~alla, Morrissey . 
Lou•e-Lat·yung Kang, Archlleclure Katie McBride, Lewis 
Rob Murphy, Morrissey 
Jeni Schellenberger, Lewis Liz Toohey, Walsh Kathy Webb, Badin 
Ellen Zahren, Walsh 
Maria Jukic, Walsh 

and lecture notes and govern­ment surveillance reports will be on display in the Rare Book Room of Hesburgh Library and in the library concourse. 
Exhibit sponsors include the University Libraries; the Year of the Women committee; the departments of American stud­ies, anthropology, government, history, and sociology; and the gender studies program. 
Stephanie Tyler, a campaign aide to Wagner, and Brian Krolicki, Seale's campaign manager' suffered less severe injuries and were taken to..~ Fallon hospital, the shenL 
said. 

Wagner and Seale were tal..en to Washoe Medical Center in Reno. A hospital spokeswoman 
said the two were listed in seri­
ous condition but the exact na­
ture of their injuries wasn't 
immediately known. 
Wagner, 50, is a longtime 
state senator, and Seale, 48, is 
a certified public accountant. 
Both are on Tuesday's primary 
election ballot. 
Wagner's late husband, Peter 
Wagner, was killed in a 1980 
plane crast. 
Siobhan Lally, HowardI CANT BELIEVE ITS YOGURT Tim Mooney, Cavanaugh
KING'S GYROS 
MACRI'S DELI Chuck Leonard, Keenan 
MAJEREK'S HALLMARK CARDS & GIFrS Laura Keane, Walsh 
MJCHAEL ANGELO'S fLORAL COMPANY Drew Dougherty, Dillon 
N01RE DAME BOOK STORE Jim McKiernan, Keenan Miguel Salazar, Morrissey Rick Schaupp, Dillon Robert Schynsky, Morrissey 
N01RE DAME FOLK CHOIR Denise Avila, Walsh Kim Kowalski, Walsh Bridget Bannister, Howard Mike Richardson, Morrissey 
PATrmSGOURMETBURGERS Rick Chapman, Grace Jenn Snodgrass, Walsh 
UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS Megan Junius, Walsh 
UNIVERSITY LANES Anne Cashman, Lewis 
Rosemary Ernst, Lewis Katherine Pong, Walsh Lou Hall, off campus 
Josh Langford, Morrissey
Jim Meyers, Pangborn 
VILLA CAPRI RESTAURANT John Paulsen, Morrissey 
pageS 
AP Photo 

Chip Patent Winner 
Gilbert Hyatt displays one of his micro-computer chips after he won a 20-year struggle for a patent on a single chip computer. Chips covered by his patent are used in nearly every piece of electronic gear from pocket calculators to dishwashers. 
i
•
:
•
:
i 
: :
• 
:. 
• 
i 

Gang spree kills one in California 
FRESNO, Calif. (AP) -Gang members thwarted in an at­tempt to attack rivals ram­paged through the city, killing one persoll and wounding up to nine others, police said Mon­day. 
The victims apparently were chosen at random during a four-hour spree of shootings and robberies Sunday night throughout this central Cali­fornia city of 350,000 people, said Sgt. Mike Guthrie. 
"There doesn't seem to be any identifiable pattern," Guthrie said. "I think it was more driving until they saw an opportunity and taking it." 
Police arrested four boys, ages 14, 15, 16 nd 17, and confiscated five guns early Monday. All of those arrested are from Fresno, Guthrie said. 
Each was charged with one count of murder, ~ix counts of attempted murder and seven counts of armed robbery. Their names were withheld because of their ages. 
One suspect remained at large and additional charges were pending against the four held, police said. 
Besides the three shotguns, one rifle and a handgun, police seized crack cocaine from one of the youths, Guthrie said. 
The rampage began after uniformed officers patrolled a drug-infested west Fresno neighborhood called "the U," said Guthrie. 
Five gang members intended to shoot rivals, but left the area because of the police, Guthrie said. 
After the fatal shooting downtown, one juvenile left the group, Guthrie said. The other four robbed and shot people along an eight-mile stretch north to near Fresno State University, then headed back downtown, he said. 
"This entire scenario was an afterthought," Guthrie said. 
The shooting spree was "unprecedented in our city," he said. "I can recall nothing of this magnitude ... There very easily could have been half a dozen or more murder vic­tims." 
-_j 
page 6 The Observer 

Solar-powered glider reaches coast 
SPOT, N.C. (AP} -A solar-The Sun Seeker made a powered ultralight plane smooth landing at a sod farm reached the East Coast on about nine miles northeast of Monday, but the pilot insisted the monument, forced down by on covering the last eight miles rain, wind and poor visibility to Kitty Hawk before declaring after flying about 25 miles, he he'd made the first cross-coun-said. try solar flight. The plane has solar cells to 
Eric Raymond, whose Sun produce power for its electric Seeker was forced down by bad motor. However, the motor is weather, said he'd try again used only for takeoffs and Tuesday to reach the Wright landings. After takeoff, the roo­Brothers Memorial, which tor is turned off and the plane commemorates the pioneer avi-rides thermals, columns of ris­ators' historic 1903 flight. ing warm air, like a glider. 
Others on the crew, including Raymond, a former national Raymond's father, Sam, were hang gliding champion, had ready to call the journey from hoped to reach his destination the inland California desert a Sunday but was delayed by cross-country success, since strong headwinds. He logged Spot is on a peninsula just only 18 miles Friday when he short of the Outer Banks, which landed at Virginia Tech Airport hold Kitty Hawk. But the pilot at Blackburg, Va .. ahout 25 insisted on reaching his sym-miles northwest of Roanoke, bolic goal. Va. 
"I said I was going to land Raymond flew 124 miles Sun­(at the monument}," Raymond day before landing in Currituck, said in a telephone interview. "I in North Carolina's northeast­just want to be able to say I ern corner, about 35 miles landed here. I think it's worth north of Kitty Hawk, said Sun an-;:._::::o::th~e~r;.,..::.da::,YL:.·:...."_______......;S;;.;e,.e,.kiiiie.o.r...c..:.roject spokesman Jack 
This Is NoWay To TakeYour 
ll LSAT. 
l 1 
you've set your sights on school. there's no better LSAT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our LSAT prep will open your eyes with score-raising strategies and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material is based on the "'lew" I...SAI And you can review lessons, and get additional help aS needed in our TEST-N-TAPE.-lab, open days, eveninp and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourscl[ 
And watch the scales tip in your favor. 
! STANlEY R KAPlAN 
TakeKaplanOrTakeYour Glances 1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PHONE 219/272-4135 
RESERVE YOUR PLACE 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 

Whitehouse. 
"He was struggling when he took off today," Whitehouse said Monday. "He said his climb rate was more like 100 feet per minute, which is very weak. (His chances were} only 50-50." 
"We've been very upset be­cause the delays we've had on this trip have had nothing to do with the plane, they were be­cause of the weather," said his wife, Aida. 
Two days after the journey began, the 198-pound craft was 
seriously  damaged  in  an  
aborted  takeoff from  Lords­ 
bur  

Tuesday, September 4, 1990 

Palmer resigns from top New Zealand position 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand (AP) -Prime Minister Geoffrey Palmer resigned Tuesday as opinion polls indicated his rul­ing Labour Party would be routed in next month's national elections. 
External Relations and Trade Minister Mike Moore, who Palmer defeated in a party vote when former Premier David Lange resigned 13 months ago, was named to succeed Palmer in the Oct. 27 balloting. The opposition National Party is leading by a large margin over the Labour Party in the latest polls. 
Moore, 41, who in recent months had repeatedly denied he would seek to unseat Palmer, had been ranked third in power behind Palmer and Deputy Prime Minister Helen Clark. 
Moore told a news conference that New Zealanders wanted a "new direction" and that his bid for the leadership "in no way is a reflection on Mr. Palmer's service to New Zealand." 
New Zealand, with 3.5 million residents, has been hit in recent months by a weakness in its general economy and a rise in unemployment. 
Palmer, 48, had denied he would step down as recently as Monday. New Zealand Press Association quoted sources as saying he had enough support to stay in office but decided to quit because the internal power struggle would have devastated the party. 
Palmer told a news confer­ence he "may well have had the numbers to remain, but I took the view that to have a leader­ship contest on a vote would be destructive, it would be divisive, that it was not in the best in­terests of the collective." 


Happy 20th Birthday Ty! 
From, the .. Brady Bunch .. 

We're looking for people who look at this glass and say: 
''There'sgoHa be other glasses of water.'' 
We need people capable of going beyond half. full or half -empty thinking. People who see subtleties. Who are quite frankly bored by easy answers and off-the-shelf solutions. 
People who are constantly challenging their own thinking and are thirsty for new ideas and knowledge. 

You·u have a degree from a top school. Getting a job won't really be an issue. The question is: which job? Which industry? 
You don't want to get locked into one area and then discover three to five years from now that you don"t like it. By then you"ve invested too much. 

Andersen Consulting offers you the chance to work on a vanety of projects-with clients in a wide range of industries. 
We are the leader in helping organizations apply information technology to their business advan. tage. Every hour of every business day, we implement a solution to help one of our more than 5.000 clients worldwide. 
What makes that possible is the quality of our people. And the quality ofour training. We"re known for both. 
Because business and tech­nology are ever-changing, we see training as a continuing process. And our$123-million Center for 
Andersen Consult1n111 an equal opportumty employer 


Professional Education in St. Charles. Illinois. is just one measure of our commitment. We train you for a career-notjust a job. 
Are you the kind of person we"re talking about? The kind of person with an unquenchable desire for challenge and professional growth? 
Ifso. come talk to us. And find out more about a career with Andersen Consulting. 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
AATHUR '-"DERSEN & CO.. S.C. 
Where we gofrom here~ 

Campus Interviews-October 5 Sign Up in Placement Office September 3 & 4 
page 7

Tuesday, September 4, 1990 The Observer 
•

Prosecutor seeks crucial override 1n Stuart case 
BOSTON (AP) -The answers to the case in which a man con­cocted a story about a robber shooting him and his pregnant wife may never be known unless the state's highest court over­rules attorney-client privilege. 
The husband, Charles Stuart, has since committed suicide, and prosecutors are asking the court to force Stuart's attorney to disclose conversations they had before the hoax unraveled. 
It may provide the only break for prosecutors considering charges against Stuart's brother, who says he was an unwitting accomplice. 
Attorneys for the Stuart fam­ily will contend in hearings set for this week that attorney­client privilege remains intact. And although prosecutors will argue the privilege should be overridden in the interest of justice, some legal observers say that is shaky ground at best. 
"There's not much precedent 
for this," said Phyllis Goldfarb, 
a professor at the Boston Col­
lege Law School. 
Carol Stuart, 30, was shot in 
the head on the night of Oct. 
23, minutes after she and her 
husband drove away from a 
prenatal class at Brigham and 
Women's Hospital. 
Wounded himself, Stuart 
called police and guided them 
to his location using his car's 
cellular telephone. His dra­
matic, anguished plea for help 
over the telephone was widely 
broadcast. Mrs. Stuart died 
hours after the attack; her 
We need vou. 
American Heart ft Association V 
The Observer---­
is looking for enthusiastic students to fill the following positions: 
Layout and Design Staff 
To apply, or for further information, 
contact: 
Lisa Eaton, Production Manager 
at 239-7471or at 283-2761. 


See your representative and make these savings on your ring during Ring Week Tuesday-Friday September 4,5,6 & 7th in the Haggar College Ctr. game rm. 
3214 Menauquet Trail Michigan City, IN 46360 
lrll
VISA j 
Deposit required 


Charles Stuart prematurely delivered son died 17 days after that. 
Stuart claimed a black man had kidnapped them, forced them to drive to a deserted area, robbed and then shot them. Many saw the incident as a symbol of urban crime. 
Then, on Jan. 3, Matthew Stuart went to authorities and implicated his brother in the shooting. Charles Stuart leaped to his death from a bridge the next day. 
Nearly a year after the crime, the grand jury investigating the case has stalled over whether Matthew Stuart's role was re­ally that of an unwitting ac­complice as he claimed. 
Prosecutors want the privi­lege broken, in order to learn whether Stuart told his lawyer, John Dawley, that Matthew was involved in a plot to kill Mrs. Stuart and cover up the crime by staging a fake robbery. 
According to a judge's memo­randum, the grand jury was told that Matthew was to meet his brother at a predetermined location Oct. 23 to get items that later would be claimed to have been stolen, and an insur­ance claim would be filed. 
The grand jury, according to the report, was told Matthew pulled alongside his brother's car and talked to him, but was not aware his brother was wounded or that Mrs. Stuart was in the car. 
Matthew told police his brother passed him several items, including a handgun. He said he dropped the gun and a woman's handbag into the Pines River in Revere. 
The items were later recov­ered and the gun was identified as the one used to shoot the Stuarts. 
New trial continues Iran-Contra questions 
BALTIMORE (AP) -A former CIA agent embroiled in the Iran-Contra affair goes on trial Tuesday in a case expected to shed light on who made how much in the secret arms supply network to Iran and the Contra rebels in Nicaragua. 
Thomas Clines, who retired from the CIA in 197 8 after a 29-year career, is accused of under-reporting his earnings from arms sales on his 1985 and 1986 tax returns. He also is charged with failing to tell the Internal Revenue Service about overseas bank accounts. 

Clines, of Middleburg, Va., pleaded innocent March 9 to all four counts. If convicted of all 
is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Day Editor 
Students are needed to perform general office tasks one afternoon a week. Duties include answering telephones and assigning stories for the News Department.For more information, call Cathy Meere at 273-9624 or 239-5303. 
SUBWAY DELIVERS TO YOU 

Call 277-7744 
Subway is delivering to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses during the following times: 
5 p.m.-12 Midnight every day of the week. 
f11J ;IQl;ti 
State Road 23 and Ironwood 
charges, Clines could be fined up to $1 million and sentenced to 16 years in prison. 
"As I've said in open court, we thought the case should never have been brought," said Clines' attorney, Paula Jung­hans. "He intends to defend it vigorously.'' 
She declined to comment fur­ther. 
Prosecutors contend Clines reaped about $882,000 in commissions for helping buy and sell arms to Iran and the Contra rebels fighting the Marxist Sandinista government in Nicaragua. Some of the money was kept in a foreign account code-named "C.Tea," according to the congressional Iran-Contra report issued in November 1987. 
Clines was in the arms busi­ness with Richard Secord, a re­tired Air Force major general, and Albert Hakim, an Iranian­born businessman, the indict­ment said. 
The business allegedly oper­ated in 1985 and 1986. It was directed by former National Se­curity Adviser John Poindexter and retired Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North, a former National Security Council aide, court pa­pers said. 
"North and Poindexter played critical roles in providing the funds that Clines, Hakim and Secord used to pay for the weapons the Contras eventually received," according to court documents. 
"Those funds also provided the source of the profits that Clines and his partners kept, which are at the heart of this case." 
Prosecutors claim evidence will show that Clines received about $423,000 in 1985 and $459,000 in 1986. 
Clines reported gross receipts of $265,000 for the tax year 1985 and $402,513 for 1986, the indictment said. 
Hakim, who managed bank accounts in the Iran-contra af­fair, is a key witness in the case against Clines. 
Hakim pleaded guilty Nov. 21, 1989, to a misdemeanor of supplementing North's salary. He was sentenced in February to two years of supervised pro­bation. and was fined $5,000. 
Hakim was a principal share­holder of Lake Resources Inc., a company that pleaded guilty to stealing government prop­erty. That was done by divert­ing the proceeds from arms sales to Iran to the Contras. 
The government also is ex­pected to put Secord on the stand. 
Secord pleaded guilty Nov. 8, 1989 to one felony count of making false statements to the Iran-Contra congressional committees. 
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, September 4, 1990 
Bond 
continued from page 1 
The Gainesville Sun reported Monday that Humphrey's psy­chiatric records were subpoe­naed by the task force investi­gating the killings. 
Prosecutors and Humphrey's public defender said they likely would seek a psychological evaluation of Humphrey this week. 
Humphrey's psychiatrist, Phillip Springer, said he op­posed being legally compelled to turn over the records and 
The bodies of University of Florida freshmen Sonja Larson, 18, and Christina Powell, 17, were found Aug. 26. The body of Sante Fe Community College student Christa Hoyt, 18, was found the next day, while the bodies of Tracey Paules, 23, and Manuel Taboada, 23, were found Aug. 28. Miss Paules went to the University of Florida, while Taboada was a student at Santa Fe. 
All five died of multiple stab wounds. The bodies of the first three victims were mutilated, police said. 


Make The Grade With Pilot 
Win a FREE all-terrain bike in Pilot's Free Wheelin' Drawing. 
Head to your college bookstore now and look for Pilot's Free Wheelin' bike display That's where you'll find entry forms for a chance to win a hot new Columbia Metro 10-speed all-terrain bike -a $160 value. All entries for this campus cruiser must be postmarked by October 1, 1990, so hurry! 
And while you're there, don't forget to stock up on Pilot's o.uality writing products like the Better Ball Point Pen, Spotliter, Pencilier and our long-lasting I 'l printer. typewnter and calculator
0_PILOTj nb~~~-course grades to steep ® grades, Pilot makes it easy
Quality Office Products Since 1918 

didn't believe Humphrey's men­tal condition should be a basis for suspicion in the murders. Humphrey has been treated with lithium, a mood-stabilizing drug. 
Brevard Circuit Judge John Antoon signed an order Sunday allowing investigators to take Humphrey's footprints to com­pare with those found at one of the crime scenes. 
Police guarded his apartment over the holiday weekend while other officers continued searching a creek behind the apartment complex. 
Ethics 
continued from page 1 
to give the students a way to deal with it." 
The report, which was sub­mitted to O'Meara last May, recommends in part that all students in the Colleges Busi­ness Administration and Engi­neering be required to take at least one course focusing on ethical decisions. 
Williams said that, despite these obstacles, the recommen­dations in the report will be carried out. 
No purchase necessary Sweepstakes ends October I. 
I 990. For complete details and rules visit your campus bookstore. Sweepstakes open to anyone I 6 years or older Vo1d where prohibited by law. 


----------~--------------------~~~--------------------------~~--------------_,,______________~----~------~---------~--------~------------~ 
ter. 

1 1 :00 AM -4:00 PM The Indians had erected the '::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~;ii;ii;iii;!iiiiii!ii.i~-1------------------------.. barricades at Kahnesatake and
another Mohawk community, 

Tuesday, September 4, 1990 
Some wild plants may be on endangered lists 
WASHINGTON (AP) -En­dangered species pop up in the strangest places. Like flower beds. 
Plant-protection activists say some species of bulbs bought to decorate American and Euro­pean gardens are being col­lected by the millions in the wild, threatening to wipe out those flowers in their home turf. 
"The world would lose an ir­replaceable treasure," said Marjorie Arundel of Warren­ton, Va., an adviser to the Gar­den Club of America's horticul­ture committee. "They're the ancestors of all of our spring bulbs today." 
Arundel and other activists are urging American gardeners to buy only commercially prop­agated plants, which experts say make up at least 99 percent of the flower trade anyway. 
"Wild-collected flowers are a small percentage of the trade, but a large percentage of cer­tain kinds of plants," said Faith Campbell, director of the plant conservation program for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. 
Working with the World Wildlife Fund and the Garden Club of America, the NRDC has produced leaflets calling on gardeners to avoid most kinds of cyclamen, sternbergia and galanthus, or snowdrops, 

is desperately seeking help for the Graphics Dept. If you can draw, or if you are familiar with MacDraw II or Adobe Illustrator and/or willing to learn, call the Observer and ask for Michael Muldoon. 
which they say are collected in the wild in Turkey. 
Those three species are listed as endangered in the Conven­tion on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, or CITES. But this treaty -effective in fighting trade in some endan­gered animal skins, horns and tusks -has had little effect on the flower trade, Campbell said. 
Snowdrops are greatly de­pleted in Turkey's Mediter­ranean regions, forcing traders to seek out sources in more remote regions. 
The popular "Angel's Tears" narcissus are being collected in the wild, but experts are not sure if the source is Portugal or somewhere else. 
Other wildflowers, such as trillium, are being collected from the wild in the United States and Canada. Japan, China, India and the Soviet Union appear to be the sources for still other rare flowers. 
Some species of these plants may be produced by growers in the United States or Europe, but buyers are being counseled to check the origins as carefully as they can. 
This may become easier, as a result of the decision last May by the Dutch Commodity Board for Ornamental Horticultural Products to require exporters to use a "Bulbs from Wild Sources" label to identify wild­collected plants. 

The Observer page 9 

AP Photo

Here's looking at you 
Members of the 146th aeromedical evacuation squadron, based at the Channel Island Air National Guard Base near Oxnard, Calif., try on gas masks during a briefing at Point Magu Naval Base, Calif. Fourteen members of the squadron volunteered for active duty when reserves were called up last week. 
Army halts advance on Mohawks 
OKA, Quebec (AP) -Army commanders on Monday ordered troops to halt their ad­vance on the last stronghold occupied by armed Mohawks as they tried to persuade the Indi­ans to surrender. 
Earlier Monday, a shot was fired as soldiers moved through a wooded area toward the Mo­hawk positions. Both Mohawk and army representatives de­nied shooting. 
The incident took place as a nearly 2-month-old standoff wore on, with troops surround­ing about two dozen members of the militant Mohawk War­rior's Society and 30 women and children holed up in a drug and alcohol detoxification cen­ter on Indian land in the Kah­nesatake settlement. 
Happy "19th" Birthday Jessica 
Your Biggest Fans 
Mohawk warriors with rifles and automatic weapons manned foxholes around the center, which was encircled by a tight cordon of troops, ar­mored vehicles and barbed wire. 
Lt. Gen. Kent Foster, com­mander for the Montreal re­gion, told a news conference Monday, "The army's next move is to stay in place and keep the perimeter closed (around the detoxification cen­ter). There will be no more mili­tary movement. We will stay here until this is over." 
Foster said the army has a phone line open to the Mohawks in the detoxification center. 
He said the commander on the scene, Brig. Gen. Armand Roy, was negotiating with 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7 


Receive 50% off the daily newsstand price 
. EALLTERM SPRING TERM FULL YEAR 
Monday-Fnday $17.25 $17.25 $34.50 
Monday-Saturday 20.25 20.25 40.50 
Monday-Sunday 56.25 56.25 112.50 
Sunday only 
36.00 36.00 72.00 For more information call Greg Kletzly at 283-3246 
Kahnawake, in a dispute over plans by Oka town officials to expand a golf course onto what they claim is tribal land. 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS! 
ROCCO'S Restaurant 
South Bend's "Original Pizza " and a tradition with students 
The Finest Italian Cuisine 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. 233-2464 
Terry Doxtater, a chief of the Six Nations Iroquois Confeder­acy, in an effort to persuade the Indians to lay down their arms. 
Doxtater described the situa­tion as "desperate." 
"The people of the Pines (the Kahnesatake Mohawks) are not going to lay down their arms if the Canadian army moves in. This is a decision made by the men and the women," he said. "The army has created an envi­ronment which they hope will trigger the all-out bloody as­sault they seek." 
Another Iroquois Confederacy chief, Bob Antone, said the ne­gotiations centered on creation of a native peacekeeping force to replace the Quebec provincial police in Kahnesatake. 
The Indians have said they will not give up their weapons without some guarantees of protection from police reprisals. They fear the Quebec police might seek revenge for the death of a policeman in a July 11 clash that triggered the Oka standoff. 
On Sunday, about 350 sol­diers demolished the last barri­cades blocking access to the Kahnesatake settlement and seized control of most of it. The Mohawk militants were con­fined to a small wooded area about the size of a football field around the detoxification cen­


Viewpoint
page 10 Tuesday, September 4, 1990 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 

News Editor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ........ ,Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

"CAUL!FLOW~? H~l~ NATI~ 16 J::ACING A~130 BIWON SAVING5·AND·LOM BAIL.OUr AND YOU'RE WORRIED WiJ\JT M~ I=INISHING MY CA.UUI=LCJN£R?[" 
Year of the Woman encourages campus involvement 
equality? What can be doneRev .Stephen P. 
about it? Whu should do it? 
Newton, C.S.C. How? 
What, if any, are the various

Campus Ministry 
attitudes in the Church at large 
and Notre Dame in particular 
"In the process of my search, that obstruct women in reli­I have become more and more gion, spirituality and educa­convinced that 'womenspirit tion? How have those attitudes rising' is one of the most far­become systemized? What de­reaching social revolutions of nials prevent them from being our age, touching all dimen­eradicated? sions of our lives, from per­Do you find your religious in­sonal identity to our most inti­volvements to be passionate mate relationships, to the ones? Why or why not? If not, shape of our social and eccle­what can increase the passion sial institutions, to the content in your spiritual life? What of our systems of human helps would you need? knowledge. It has raised ques­What other questions need to tions for which there are no be asked? Who is going to ask ready answers. Its focus is not them? Who will help answer? only justice for women, it is Campus Ministry would like to also about the shape of the fu­know your views on all of these ture." --Maria Riley, OP questions. 
University president Father Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. pro­Need more questions? claimed this academic year to Consider the following from a be the Year of Women. He's a feminist credo, quoted by man. Some other men at Notre Carter Heyward in her book: Dame, learning of this procla­Our Passion for Justice: mation, were quick to ask: "How do we come to answers, When wtll we have the Year of if we do not formulate ques­Men? Someone was heard to tions? The questions we ask de­answer: every year so far has termine the type of lives we live, been the year of men. the kind of answers we seek. If 
The Year of Women is a year we have only answers to mean­intended to investigate, cele­ingless questions, what good brate and contemplate the ef­are they to us? Can we be both fect that women have had and portunity to begin to under­Campus Ministry encourages male, the male thinks of himself feminists/liberationists and still can have on certain universal, stand what effect there can be and invites the student body to as God. How can that be chal­be faithful followers of our re­non-sexist questions: what does on the campus and beyond, if become involved in the Year of lenged --not just in the Church ligious traditions? Indeed, what it mean to be human? what is women's issues were fully un­Women. We are convinced that universal, but here at Notre does it mean to follow a tradi­the meaning of life, or is there derstood and integrated into the year and your active in­Dame? What kinds of new tion? What does it mean to lead one? if one, only one? or many? the consciousness of more volvement in it are very much thinking, speaking and praying a tradition? How do we over­if many, are they interrelated? women and men. needed by the University com­might be called for? Who will come the temptation to remain how? munity. design new models? What will innocent --not to deal with ul­
The purpose of the year is not These issues affect every Because of what we do, they be? timate questions? Can we be to further rifts that exist be­aspect of our lives together, Campus Ministry activities will innocent and responsible per­tween the sexes in society at and programs are being devel­be most concerned with areas It has been suggested that sons at the same time? Will our large and at Notre Dame in oped for almost every area of dealing with the realm of the feminism is not a concept that questions not lead us to conflict particular. The year is not in­our lives: literature, culture and spirit. We will support all areas divides women from men but with others? Can we love with­tended to be a vehiclB for de­art; law, history and politics; of involvement, but could use one that is meant to point out out experiencing conflict? How termining (if either) sex is truly residence life; careers; health, help in deciding how we might equality of male and female. far are we willing to go?" superior or better or more hu­recreation and safety; science, focus our own programs to Are males and females equal? Father Stephen P. Newton is man. engineering and technology; partake in the Year of Women. Does that mean they're the Director of Special Projects at 
Rather, the Year of Women spirituality, religion and educa­It has been suggested that in same? If equal, what structures Campus Ministry and is a regu­can be --at its best --an op-tion. a culture that thinks of God as do we have that deny that lar Viewpoint columnist. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
8.0.! YOU CAN'TIMAGINe 7Ht 'TI?a.JBl& HUNK-f?A CAIEW FORM& 7017AY. .. 
/ 
54V5 n; 8C(P51&, I GOTTA WATOI 
7HI9! 
\ 

I~~ 

'One of the symptoms of an approaching nervous break~own is the belief that one's work 1s terribly important.' 
Bertrand Russel 



-
Accent 
Harrison Ford is 'Presumed Innocent' 

PAIGE SMORON corruption uncovered goes deeper 
assistant accent editor and deeper into the system. 
"Presumed Innocent" by The casting is phenomenal, and Scott Turow, one of the best­with all the talent in the film, selling suspense thrillers of the there are some great per­
80's, is now a movie. (It was formances. Raul Julia stands out only a matter of time ...) as Sandy Stern, Sabich's smooth 
It stars Harrison Ford as and savvy attorney. Rusty Sabich, as a surprisingly If at all possible, read the book wimpy -but still likable -pros­before seeing the movie. It's more ecutor. Sabich is assigned to complicated and gripping than the investigate the murder of a movie, and you'll take it 
beautiful (and highly aerobi­everywhere until you find out who cized) colleague, Carolyn the killer is. (Okay, you probably Polhemus, with whom he'd won't bring it to the Miami game. been having -well, great sex. But you might want it for half­
Sabich becomes the prime time ... ) suspect in the murder case, and as the investigation unravels, so The plot has been simplified for does Sabich's life. The justice the movie, so there are fewer 
system to which he once suspects and possibilities, which committed himself is now was part of the fun of the book. threatening to destroy him. But even so, the evidence is 
While you're wondering difficult to keep track of. You'll whether Sabich lusted after find yourself coming up with Polhemus (Greta Scaachi) theory after theory as each clue is enough to kill her, new charac­uncovered. (That doorman looked ters are introduced: Sabich's pretty suspicious ... ) 
boss, the Chief Prosecuting "Presumed Innocent" isn't the Attorney (Brian Denehy); his kind of movie you can see just lawyer (Raul Julia); his wife once. Be sure to go again and 
(Bonnie Bedelia); the judge bring a friend who doesn't know 
(Paul Winfield); and as the plot the ending. Nudge them unfolds, you can't help but periodically (about every 10 think of-everyone as a possible minutes) and ask, "Who do you 
suspect. think did it?" When they venture a 
The director is Alan J. guess, raise an eyebrow and muse lliilll~~ Pakula, who also directed "All smugly, "Hmmmm. Interesting." the President's Men." There is a Odds are you'll have popcorn in 
lot of the same mood in your hair before the trial scenes "Presumed Innocent," as the are over. 
The Sundays offer fresh variation on the 
I 

pop mus1c scene 
JOHN LANE accent writer 

A band that gained a good deal of recognition in the United States this summer is the The Sundays, with the release of their debut album "Reading, Writing and Arithmetic." In a year that has produced few interesting recordings, The Sundays offer a refreshing change. 
The British quartet burst onto the U.K. scene last year when they released their first single "Can't Be Sure," which prompted many critics to dub them Britain's next big thing since The Smiths and The Cocteau Twins. That is a lot of pressure for a relatively humble and unambitious band, but they delivered with "Reading, Writing and Arithmetic." The Sundays rely heavily on the acoustic guitar of David Gavurin and the sugary sweet vocals of Harriet Wheeler, the band's two founding members. Gavurin's simple melodies set up Wheeler's beautiful voice, which is sort of a cross between Edie Brickell and the singer from The Cocteau Twins. Reading is full of great pop songs like "Here's Where The Story Ends," which gained moderate play on U.S. radio stations this summer, and "You're Not The Only One I Know," as well as a couple of hard songs like "A Certain Someone." 
Humility is a way of life for The Sundays. The band is truly amazed at their rapid ascent and critical acclaim. Gavurin and Wheeler, who started writing 

together just for the fun of it, realize that they 
in the right place at the right time. 
their songs are not very pretentious. 

and Gavurin write the music to their songs 
create the lyrics, which usually depict 
, everyday life. Pretty unusual for a band 
eing billed as England's next big thing. 
Any fan of good pop music should look into The 
debut album "Reading, Writing and 
" You can catch The Sundays live (and 
the Michigan game) in Chicago on 
Lawyer "Sandy" Stern (RAUL JULIA) confers with his client Rusty Sabich (HARRISON FORD, right) and his wife Barbara (BONNIE BEDELIA) during the trial in which Sabich is accused of murder in "Presumed Innocent." 
World Party's album 'Goodbye Jumbo' is upbeat vvith a message 
JOHN LANE Accent Writer 
One of the best pop albums to come out in 1990 is World Party's "Goodbye Jumbo." The album is basically a solo recording, written, produced, and recorded by ex-Waterboy Karl Wallinger, but with occasional assistance from Sinead O'Connor and keyboardist Guy Chambers, among others. 
Wallinger decided to lighten up the music on Goodbye Jumbo but retain the politically-conscious lyrics that were a staple of World Party's 1986 debut Private Revolution. Goodbye Jumbo results with a variety of songs, ranging from classic pop ("Put The Message In The Box") to rhythm and blues ("Ain't Gonna Come 'Til I'm Ready," "Show Me To The Top") to blues rock ("Is It Too Late," "Thankyou World") to slow songs {"Love Street," "Sweet Soul Dream.") All the songs, while you can tell they are done by the same band, sound different. The diversity of songs indicate Wallinger's love for 60s and 70s pop as well as his willingness to try new sounds. While most of the lyrics are of a serious nature, Goodbye Jumbo is basically a light, upbeat record. 
Wallinger, a Greenpeace spokesman, writes many songs about saving the earth and man's destruction of the planet. On "Put The Message In The Box," he writes 'See the world in just one grain of sand.../Don't let it slip right thru your hand.' On "Is 
...-..
It Too Late?," a song suggesting that man may have been too slow in trying to save the planet, Wallinger writes 'Talk about biting the hand that feeds/sitting there watching as it bleeds.' Goodbye Jumbo ends, however, with "Thankyou World," an upbeat song praising the earth and life's simple pleasures, indicating that maybe Wallinger doesn't have such '1. bleak outlook on the future of the planet. 
If you haven't heard Goodbye Jumbo from World Party yet, check it out soon. It may be the best pop ;J.}bum so far of 1990. 

-
co a a.: WI EEW:_ 
r page 12 Tuesday, September 4, 1990 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
-
Notre Dame oHice, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 

NOTICES  ·eASEL T.V."  TICKETS  I NEED 4 MICHIGAN TICKETS I !II GAORSTUD. CHRIS 273-9355 $$$$$$$  Need 2 Miami GA's Call Matt x3630  GREAT DEAL! 6 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs ­other offers welcome  
TYPING AVAILABLE  • SALES REPS WANTED  Okay, any student tickets for  x2630  
287-4082  NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAME.  Purdue, or any GA's tor Michigan, 
• 31MMEDIATE OPENINGS  CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717­ NEED 2 MICHIGAN TICKETS  please call Paige at x2980. This is  Need 1 Michigan stud.  
30 Ft. Blue & Gold advertising  297-2192.  $$$$$$ JULIE X2569  serious.  Please call Peter x1802  
Balloon for rent. Custom  • GREAT PT. TIME HOURS  
messages. Signs & Banners for  WANTED: 2 tickets-NO vs Penn  Need 2 Mich. GA's. Will trade  
your organization. 272-7770!  • $400-$600 WEEKLY  State.Call316-775-6143 after  Penn State or Air Force. Also  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Have 2 USC -need 2 Miami GA  
6pm. Leave message.  will to pay big $. Call Jim at  Also any home game $$$$$$  
INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN  ·cAREER OPPORTUNITY  •xt723  NEED 2 MICH. TIX!  Terri x4837  
FELLOWSHIP  HELP!!!!  G.A'S OR STUD.  
CALL FOR INTERVIEW  Parents' first and last chance  CALl x3771 or x3791  
1. Large Group Meeting  BETWEEN 10-12 NOON. MATT  to see an ND football game.  Helpll NEED 2-4 PURDUE  HEY YOU! $$$$ I will buy your  
When? Fri. Sept. 7 (7:30pm)  FRIENDSHUH 237-0691  Desperately need 2 GA's and one  TICKETS!WILL PAY BUCKS!!  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  student tix and/or application.  
Where? 427 Stanford  student ticket for MICHIGAN.  (GA's) call #3490!1  277-5123  
2. Welcome Picnic  please call AMY (R.)  IF YOURE NOT USING YOUR  
When? Sat. Sept. 8 (3:00pm) Main Circle@ 2:30pm  FOR RENT  272-8954  CALL ME if you don't need  FOOTBAll TIX APPLICATION CAlL JERRY X2379  I NEED 4 MICHIGAN TIX........... WAY BAD !I!! 233-7440. PAUL  
Where? Potawatomi Park  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  your PURDUE tickets!! I need  
Food & Rides  2GA's and 2S's!l Christian at  
ALL ARE WELCOME Questions? Call Sean@ x1910  3 ROOM APTS., 2 PEOPLE PER APT. AT $200 EACH, UTILITIES INCLUDED. 315 N. TAYLOR, 282­1014.  BETH NEEDS TICKETSIIll! Student tickets needed for Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and  x1478 Don't Wait in the LONG LINE sell your Football ticket  H E l PI!! NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS  WANTED One set of season student tickets . Will pay for tickets plus $100.00 to you. Call  
- Used Textbooks! 25% OFF LIST PRICE Pandora's Books  719 E. HOWARD. 2 OR 3 BEDROOM. 1/2 MILE FROM  Air Force. Call Beth at 288-0597  application to me and make $$$$CALL ED 277-8974  PAYING TOP$$$$$ CAll JEFF@277-3998  Clint at 289-4914. NEED STUD/GA TIX  
corner of ND ave. and Howard 233-2342 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND One month student loans up to $250. Inquire at 2nd floor of LaFortune. 11:30-12:30  CAMPUS. ATTACHED GARAGE. BIG EAT-IN KITCHEN. BIG LIVING ROOM, BIG DINING ROOM. SCREENED IN PORCH. 277-4469 RHONDA. NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and secure turn. apt: 755 South Bend  Have 2 STAN. GA's. Need PURDUE GA's. Trade? 717-757­1934, Bill. Need two MIAMI tickets for long lost WEALTHY uncle 287-3472 Scotty  MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDED! !I!!' Mom, Dad, and bro. have never been to an NO game. 2 G.A.'s & 1 STUDENT TICKET will help keep them from watching it on t.v.  WANTED One set of season student tickets. Will pay for tickets plus 50.00 to you. Call Doug at x1245. HELP!!  for any/all games Call x2341 or (708)850-9314 evenings HElP!!! !desperately need 4 MICHIGAN tix. G.A.s or Studs. $$$ Call Nicole 234-8882  
Lost and Found  Ave., 1 bdrm. $265, dep., references. 616-483-9572.  TICKETS NEEDED!!!! 2 G.A.'s for MICHIGAN  272-8954 Amy Razz  Desperately need 2 GA's tor ND vs Penn State. Willing to pay big $11  need 1-4 Mich tix-stud or GA I'll pay $, trade any stud tix,  
FOUND: Watch near Library early Friday morning. Call Ron x3504 to ID. FOUND: reddish rimmed glasses outside of O'Shaugnessy this Tuesday. Call #4053 LOST: BLUE ND FIESTA BOWL  2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON 425 MONTH+DEPOSIT 232-3616 PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOME WALK TO ND 6838889 OR2876389  2 GA's + 1 Student ticket for Air Force 273-9469 Diane $$$$$$$$$$$ Need student tickets for Penn State, Miami, and Michigan. Will pay outrageous prices.  MICHIGAN still has maid service. Let us curse them. Need mucho stud. tix/ x1160 Help Ill Looking for Michigan tickets (GAs and Student) Please call John or Regina 258-0809 $$$  Call 283-4321. TICKETS PLEASEI!-GRATEFUL DEAD OHIO SHOWS. CALl DEBBIE 287-3592. WILL TRADE 2 MICH OR 2 PENN ST GA'S FOR 2 MIAMI OR 2 TENN  incl Miami x2188 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHIGAN GA'S! WILL PAY BIG$ CAll JOY X4856 3 CONSECUTIVE GA'S NEEDED  
-­ HANDBAG AT MICHIANA AIRPORT ON AUGUST 6. CALL TONY BROOKS 283-1970 OR 234-4961. MIKE FROM MICHIGAN -IF YOU HAVE MY HANDBAG, PLEASE CALL ME. LOST-green Navy seabag.  HOUSE FOR RENT -527 S. EDDY ST. -6 BEDROOMS, 2 FULL BATHS, liVING ROOM, EAT-IN KITCHEN AND FINISHED ROOM IN BASEMENT. LEASE REQUIRED THROUGH 5/31/91. $720/MO. $600 SECURITY. CONTACT TAMMI AT 232-1242.  Call Dan xtt26. $$$$$$$$$$$ Need $$$?Sell your ga's to all home games. Call tom xt597.  Please help me recruit little brother. I need Penn St GA & Stud tix. Call John C.@ x1622 HELP!!!! My Sister is coming tor the Michigan game, but she doesn't have a ticket. Please sell me yours. Call me at X4094.  GA'S CAlL TOM X1441 HEYYOUII PlEASE HElP!! I NEED 4 TICKETS, PREFERABLY STUDENT, TO THE MICHIGAN GAME.  FOR AIR FORCE. CAll PETE X2340 Need 1 Student or GA ticket to Michigan. Call Matt at xt089. NEED GA TIX FOR All HOME  
Left behind bookstore 8\26. Contains clothes,etc. Please call Bart X3285. LOST-Green Navy seabag. Left behind the bookstore on 8\26. Contains clothes,etc.  A STUDIO IN OLD MANSION NEAR NOTRE DAME 255 PLUS DEPOSIT CALL 2888595 ------------------------------------­REPOSSESSED VA & HOO HOMES available from governrnen  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 MICH. GA'S NAME YOUR PRICEIII #3501 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306  I NEED, WANT, WILL PAY FOR FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE CALL KRISTEN AT X1273 ABOUT INDIVIDUAL TIX OR ENTIRE TIX APPLICATION. TOP $ for 2 Miami GA's  CAllX2819 PENN ST. TIX NEEDED CALL SCOTT 234-3356 If you're not using your football  GAMES. CAll CHRIS Xt067 DESPERATElY SEEKING ... ONE MICHIGAN STUD. TICKET for our roommate who is going to Ireland this year and will be here for just that ONE weekend. Call the Amys x4813  
Please call Bart x3285 ------------------------------------­WANTED  lor Sl wilbout cr.Gt dad. You repair. Also tax delinquenl foreclosures. tml (805) 682-7555 Ext. H-3269lar repo list yow area.  NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U., AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT X2088  Call Beth at 288-0597 or Art at 277-9203 $$$$$$$$  ticket application, please call Jim at 288-9266. I'm desperate and wealthy. Need Michigan tickets  $$$$$$$$$ ND Alum needs 4 Stanford GAs. Will pay $$$! Call Jim Kirker collect 203-889-3738  
NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U.,  call Molly at 4189  $$$$$$$$$  
EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK  AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 615-473-7440 EXT. 8-340.  FOR SALE  X2088  WE NEED MICH AND MIAMI STUDENT AND GA TICKETS  I need two Stanford GA's BAD!! Parents will take back tuition  PlEASE!! NEED 1 OR 2 GA FOR  
CALL AlliSON OR ANNE,2732  if I don't come through!l!ll!l!  B-DAY GIFT-PENN ST.  
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED SEPT-MAY. TURTLE CREEK APTS. 273-9406. SITTER NEEDED TWO  COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 19" COLOR TV, TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $110, ONE  Will trade 2 MIAMI GA's tor 4 AIR FORCE GA's. Call x1363. Desperately need 1 Michigan  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ SPENDTHRIFT PARENTS desperately seeking 2 MICH GAs: Mike, 273-9468  Call Mike X3506 WANNA TRADE??? NEED 2 MIAMI STUD TIX CAll AMY 1918  MEG#3850 ------------------------------------­Wanted- 
AFTERNOONS AND EVENINGS A WEEK. MUST DRIVE, KNOLLWOOD AREA CALL277­8380  SEMESTER $80. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­5959. On Notre Dame's doorstep. Oak  ticket-student or GA. Call Barry at 1765 after 6pm. HELP!!II I NEED 1 STUDENT MICHIGAN TICKET-BIG BUCKSIII  Need 2 Miami Stud TIX Will Pay Big Bucks x 1416 Brett  WANTED--ND-MICH TIX(4). WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CAlL C0ll:1-312-745-7210.  Noire Dome-Mioni footbal ticke~ W'~l pay top s Calll-800-!~-0576  
WANTED-TIX MIA-N.D. GAME CALL 800-323-7687  Hill condo like new condition, 2 bedrooms, 2 baths. Choice location in complex. $65,900. CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE  CALL MO x4805 PLEASE HELP ME !!!I! Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s  WANTED: 1 AIR FORCE G.A.  I NEED GA'S TO PENN STATE CAlL KENNY AT 271-9349  l PERSONALS  I  
roommate wanted to share 3-bedroom at castle point apt. callli tan: 239-5692 (work) 287-2528(home) Patties is now hiring part-time help.Kitchen,cashier,ice cream.Fiexible hours.We can adjust our schedule to yours. Call 255-5525.  REALTY 282-2351. Two airline round-trip tickets from Newark to South Bend Oct. 12-14. $215 each. Call leo (201) 922­2184 TIE-DYESII! (l, XL, tOO% preshrunk cotton) Hundreds made, all unique, all psychadellic  Please sell me your tickets I!!! Call Cathy at 273-9624. YOU HAVE 2 MICHIGAN GA's AND I HAVE A WAD OF MONEY! LETS DEALI Ron x3504 DESPERATELY NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR MIAMI GAME. Call Christine x4380  2 MIAMI G.A.'S CALL MIKE x1581 Need1 Michigan stud ticket for younger bro. Pat 2059. Will BEAT ANY PRICE!!!II!I!! need tickets for (ANY OR All): 2 Mich GA's , 1 A.F. stud and 1 or 2 Mich stud.  NEED MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX $$$$$ CAll 4229 $$$$$ WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 5 GA'S AT ANY HOME GAME 232-6715 MUST HAVE 4 MICH GA'S. $$$$ DEBBIE x2982 I need 2 Michigan GA's for my Mom + Dad's 34th wedding anniversary-PLEASE! Sarah 277-4838  hiag NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIXS PLEASE CALl KARIN AT X1992 Art, want for to ... PlEASE HELP! PlEASE HElP! I NEED TO BUY SOMEONE'S FOOTBALL TICKET APPLICATION. IF YOUR NOT GOING TO BUY FOOTBALL  
MICHI~AN TICKETSII!I!I!! 2 G.A.'s and 1 student ticket needed. PLEASE call Amy 272-8954 NEED 1 STUD. TICKET FOR PURDUE!!! CALL KEN X-1078 Chicago Tribune carriers needed for immediate campus  Joe 233-4065 (we deliver) HEY EE'S: Soph-Senior level books--Cheap!! Call Steve, 272-4108 78 Ford Fairmount 6 cylinder automatic, no rust, good tires, runs fine, $1275.00, call  PLEASE HELP!I! I need 5 ND/Mich. tickets, stud. or GA; my life depends on it. BIG $ & "house" keg priveleges at our pre-game party. Please be my savior &call Missy, 287-1372. NEED 1 GA & 1 STUDENT TICK FOR MICH. PLEASE CALL PAT AT #1010 WILL BUY YOUR STUDENT  NAME YOUR PRICEI!!!III Xt187 HElP!! HElP!I HELPII HELP!I Need 3 GA's for 3 Beautiful WOMEN for Air Force Football Game. Call Joe at Xt817. PLEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEA SE 1 to 3 PENN ST stud tix needed ­Susan x3141  $$$will trade 4 PURDUE GA's and CA$H for 2 MICH GA's John x1187 WilL PAY CASH for 1 student or GAAir Force tick X1187 HElP!! Need 4 Stud. Mich. tickets for hometown buddies driving all the way up from S.C. Call Caroline at x3838.  TICKETS, SElL YOUR APPLICATION TO ME FOR BIG BUCKS!!!!! CALl KEVIN x1409 or stop by 911 FLANNER CO-DA Meetings: Students interested in helping to start a Twelve Step Co-Dependency meeting on campus, call Sally at 239-7336 for discussion and planning.  
.......  morning delivery. Some collecting required and dependibjlity a must. Call City News Service, 232-3205.  Mark 232-1846 ZENITH PC--51/4 & 3 1/2 FLOPPIES, 30 MEG HARD DISK,COLOR MONITOR, EPSON FX-85 PRINTER. $1 ,000 OR BEST  F-BALL TICKETS CALL STEVE AT 273-9472 NEED 2 GA FOR PURDUE, STANFORD, AF, MIAMI.CALL  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I need student or GA's forMICHIGAN and MIAMI Will pay big bucks!!ll!ll  DESPERATElY DESIRED! TWO Michigan GAs! Will PAY BIG! Please call Kathy 277-9406 or Mike 273-94 71.  CAlL SAFEWAlK FOR AN ESCORT ON CAMPUS... EVERY NLGHT 8PM-2AM CAlL 283-BLUE  
-­ 1 ROOMMATE NEEDED TO SHARE VICTORIAN HOUSE IN HISTORIC PARK AVE. NEIGHBORHOOD. LESS THAN 2 MI. FROM CAMPUS. $300/MO + 1/2 UTIL. CALL PROF. GIAMO 239-7207 OR 289-3668. SELL ME YOUR TICKET APPLIC!! DEBBIE 283-2982.  OFFER. CALL MICHAEL MARX AT 239-5585 OR 1-879-9432. SEIZED CARS, trucks, boats, 4wheelers, motorhomes, by FBI, IRS, DEA. Available your area now. Call (805) 68247555 Ext. C-2743.  DAVEX1407 GUESS WHAT!! I Yes, I need tix, too especially for MICH and MIAMI. Will trade ANYTHING.$$$$ X4985 Need 1 student ticket for Mich. and 3forMiami $$$$$$ Call Dave 1862  CALL TOM 271-8245 !NEED MONEY?i need 3 TIX toll lsept.t5 NO-MICH. gen. ad. or! lstud. =O.k. Older bro + sis IIIIII coming for 1st game $$30221 I need 2 Student Michigan tickets IIIII $$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE Call Anne at 288 0597  NEED 1 or 2 Miami GA or student tix.Name your price .. call x 3285 My poor friends never went to an Irish game. Please sell me your Mich. student tixl Joni 1839 MICHIGAN TIX; need GA's or student; call Brian x3300  BEST BUDDIES I BEST BUDDIES ! BEST BUDDIES ! Come & see what we are ! Mandatory meeting: Wed., Sept. 5th at 7 PM Center for Social Concerns see CLASS I page 14  


' BASEBALL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS U.S. OPEN 
page 13 Scoreboard Tuesday, September 4, 1990 

AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division  BASEBALL  a two-wee~ roster exemption for Steve McMichael, defensive tackle. CINCINNATI BENGALS­ NEW YORK (AP) -Results Monday of the $6.35 million U.S. Open tennis tournament  
Boston Toronto Detroit Milwaukee Baltimore Cleveland  w 76 70 65 63 60 59  L 58 65 70 71 73 75  Pet .567 .519 .481 .470 .451 .440  GB 61/2 111/2 13 151/2 17  L10 z-9-1 4-6 7-3 z-6-4 1-9 z-2-8  Streak Lost 1 Lost 1 Won 1 Lost 2 Lost 4 Lost 8  American League BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Recalled Kevin Hickey, pitcher, and Jeff McKnight, infielder, from Rochester of the International League. BOSTON RED SOX-Recalled Billy Jo Robidoux, first baseman;  Traded Jim Skow, defensive end, to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers for Rod Jones, cornerback. Waived David Browndyke, placekicker; Doug Wellsandt, tight end; Tyreese Herds, Chris Barber and Don Odegard, cornerbacks; Eric Crigler, offensive tackle; and Mike Barber, Kendal  held at the USTA National Tennis Center (seedings in parentheses): Men Singles Fourth Round Boris Becker (2) •. West Germany,  
New York  56  78  .418  20  4-6  Lost 5  Jeff Stone and Phil Plantier, outfielders; Scott  Srnith and John Garrett, wide receivers.  del. Darren Cahill, Australia, 2-6, 6-2, 6-3, 3­ 
West Division Oakland  w 84  L 50  Pet .627  GB  L10 z-6-4  Streak Won2  Cooper, third baseman; and Daryl Irvine, pitcher, from Pawtucket of the International League.  Placed lckey Woods, running back, on the physically-unable-to-perform list. Placed Eric Thomas, cornerback, on the reserve-non­ 6,6-4. Andrei Cherkasov, Soviet Union, del. Christo van Rensburg, South Africa, 6-4,  
Chicago Texas California  77 68 68  56 66 67  .579 .507 .504  6112 16 161/2  4-6 z-4-6 7-3  Won 1 Won 1 Won2  CHICAGO WHITE SOX­Recalled Shawn Hillegas and Steve Rosenberg, pitchers; Rodney McCray,  football injury list. Received a two-week roster exemption for Reggie Rembert, wide receiver.  6-4,7-5. Andre Agassi (4), Las Vegas. del. Jay Berger (13), Weston, Fla., 7-5, 6-0,  
Kansas City  66  68  .493  18  z-4-6  Lost 1  outfielder; Jerry Willard, catcher; and Matt  CLEVELAND  BROWNS­ 6-2 .  
Seattle 66 Minnesota 62 NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division w New York 77 Pittsburgh 77  69 74 L 55 56  .489 .456 Pet .583 .579  181/2 23 GB 1/2  5-5 6-4 L10 z-8-2 z-4-6  Won 1 Won3 Streak Won 7 Won2  Stark, designated hitter, from Vancouver of the Pacific Coast League. DETROIT TIGERS-Recalled Scott Aldred. pitcher, and Milt Cuyler, outfielder. MINNESOTA TWINS-Recalled Pedro Munoz, outfielder; Jack Savage, pitcher; and Scott Leius, shortstop,  Placed Matt Bahr, placekicker, on the waived-injured list. Waived Dave Smith and George Hawthorne, offensive linemen; Eugene Rowell, wide receiver; Darryl Clack and Nuu Faaola, running backs; Darryl Sims, defensive lineman; Clifford Charlton, Lawrence McGrew and Kerry Owens, linebackers: Falanda Newton, defensive  Aaron Krickstein (9), Grosse Pointe, Mich., del. Amos Mansdorf, Israel, 6­3,6-4,6-4. Doubles Third Round David Wheaton, Excelsior, Minn., and Paul Annacone, East Hampton, N.Y.,  
Montreal Chicago Philadelphia St. Louis West Division Cincinnati  70 62 62 60 w 77  63 71 71 74 L 56  .526 .466 .466 .448­Pet .579  71/2 151/2 151/2 18 GB  6-4 3-7 4-6 z-3-7 L10 z-7-3  Won 1 Lost 3 Lost 2 Lost 4 Streak Lost 1  from Portland of the Pacific Coast League. OAKLAND ATHLETICS­Recalled Mike Bordick, infielder, from Tacoma of the Pacific Coast League . SEATTLE MARINERS-Recalled Scott Medvin, Russ Swan, Vance Lovelace, Dave Burba, Jose Melendez and  back; and Pat Ryan, quarterback. Placed Andrew Steward, defensive lineman, on injured reserve. Received two-week roster exemptions for Paul Farren, offensive tackle, and Mike Johnson and Clay Matthews, linebackers. DALLAS COWBOYs-Waived  del. Jimmy Brown, Largo, Fla., and Scott Melville, San Marino, Calif., 6-1, 6-4. Brian Garrow, Los Altos Hills, Calif., and Sven Salumaa, Huntington, N.Y., del. Pat McEnroe (14), Oyster Bay, N.Y., and Richey Reneberg, Palm Desert, Calif., 6-3, 7-6 (8-6).  
Los Angeles 71 62 San Francisco 67 66 San Diego 61 71 Houston 60 73 Atlanta 54 80 z-denotes first game was a win AMERICAN LEAGUE Monday's Gam,es Detroit 5, Toronto 0 Minnesota 6, Milwaukee 0, 1st game Minnesota 9. Milwaukee 5, 2nd game Seattle 6. Baltimore 2 California 7, New York 0 Oakland 9, Boston 5  .534 .504 .462 .451 .403  6 10 151/2 17 231/2  z-7-3 z-4-6 z-3-7 6-4 z-7-3  Won 1 Lost 4 Won 1 Lost 1 Won4  Rich Delucia, pitchers; and Dave Cochrane and Mike Brumley, infiedlers, from Calgary of the Pacific Coast League and Mike Gardiner, pitcher, from Williamsport of the Eastern League . TEXAS RANGERS-Recalled Chad Kreuter, catcher; Gerald Alexander, pitcher; and Scott Coolbaugh, infielder, from Oklahoma City of the American Association, and Bill Haselman, catcher, and Kevin Belcher, outfielder, from Tulsa of the Texas League. TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Recalled Carlos Diaz, catcher, and Willie  Terrence Flagler, Lorenzo Hampton, Broderick Sargent and Timmy Smith, running backs; Ken Willis, placekicker; Steve Folsom, tight end; Derrick Shepard, wide receiver; Randy Shannon, linebacker; Greg Johnson and Dave Franks, offensive guards; arid Mike Graybill, offensive tackle. Placed Keith Jenning, tight end; Willis Crockett, linebacker; and Michael Williams, wide receiver, on the waived-injured list. Acquired John Gesek, offensive lineman, from the Los Angeles Raiders for an undisclosed draft pick. DETROIT LIONS-Waived  Women Singles Fourth Round Jana Novotna (12), Czechoslovakia, del. Katerina Maleeva (7), Bulgaria, 6-4, 6-2. Steffi Graf (1 ), West Germany, del. Jennifer Capriati (13), Broken Sound, Fla., 6-1, 6-2. Zina Garrison (4). Houston, del. Nathalie Tauziat, France, 6-1, 7-5. Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario (6),  
Chicago 4, Kansas City 2 Texas 6, Cleveland 2 Tuesday's Games  Blair, pitcher, from Syracuse of the International League and Tom Quinlan: third baseman, from Knoxville of the Southern  Carl Painter, Greg Paterra and Eric Wilkerson, running backs; Mike Farr and Davis Smith, wide receivers; Wilson Hoyle,  Spain, del. Barbara Paulus (16), Austria, 6­4,6-3.  
Seattle (Hanson 12-9) at Baltimore (Harnisch 10-9), 7:35p.m.  League.  placekicker; Bruce McNorton, Herb Welch  
Oakland (Stewart 17-10) at Boston (Clemens 20-5). 7:35p.m. Toronto (Wills 5-3) at Detroit (Tanana 6-7), 7:35p.m. Kansas City (McGaffigan 3-1) at Chicago (McDowell11-6). 8:05p.m. Minnesota (West 7 -9) at Milwaukee (Edens 3-1 ), 8:35p.m. Cleveland (S.Valdez 2-5) at Texas (Brown 12-9), 8:35p.m. Cmly games scheduled NATIONAL LEAGUE Sunday's Games Los Angeles 12, Montreal 5 New York 10, San Francisco 6 San Diego 9, Philadelphia 1 Cincinnati 6, Chicago 2 Atlanta 5, St. Louis 0 Pittsburgh 7, Houston 6 Monday's Games Late Games Not Included Atlanta 8, Cincinnati 6 Montreal 3, Chicago 2, 12 innings Pittsburgh 4, Philadelphia 1 New York 9, St. Louis 3 Houston at Los Angeles. (n) San Francisco at San Diego, (n) Tuesday's Games Cincinnati (Jackson 5-2) at Atlanta (Giavine 6-11 ), 5:40 p.m. Chicago (Bielecki 6-9) at Montreal (De.Martinez 1 0-9), 7:35 p.m. Philadelphia (Combs 6-9) at Pittsburgh (Walk 5-4), 7:35 p.m. New York (Fernandez 9-10) at St. Louis (Magrane 8-15), 8:35p.m. San Francisco (LaCoss 4-3) at San Diego (Benes 10-8), 10:05 p.m. Houston (PortugaiB-9) at Los Angeles (R.Martinez 16-6), 10:35 p.m. SPORTS CALENDAR Thursday, Sept. 6 Tuesday, Sept. 4 No sports scheduled. No sports scheduled. Friday, Sept. 7 Wednesday, Sept 5 Men's soccer vs. DUKE. ap.m. Women's volleyball hosts the Notre Dame No sports scheduled. Invitational vs. Evansville, St. Louis and Western Mich. FOOTBALL TOP 25 The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press 1990 college football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, records through Sept. 1, total points based on 25 points for a first place vote through one point for a 25th place vote, and preseason ranking: Record Pts Pvs 1. Miami, Fla. (27) 0-0-0 1,444 1 2-Notre Dame (20) 0-0-0 1,421 2 3. Auburn (4) 0-0-0 1,304 3 (tie) Florida St. (7) 0-0-0 1,304 4 5. Michigan 0-0-0 1,176 6 6. Colorado 0-0-1 1,100 5 7. Southern Cal 1-0-0 1,091 9  National League ATLANTA BRAVEs-Recalled Paul Marak and Marvin Freeman, pitchers; Jimmy Kremers and Kelly Mann, catchers; and Mike Bell, first baseman, from Richmond of the International League. CHICAGO CUBS-Recalled Damon Berryhill, catcher; Lloyd McClendon, outfielder; and Les Lancaster and Jose Nunez, pitchers, from Iowa of the American Association. CINCINNATI REDs-Recalled Tim Birtsas. pitcher, from Nashville of the American Association and Rosario Rodriguez. pitcher, from Chattanooga of the Southern League. HOUSTON ASTROS-Recalled Brian Meyer, pitcher, from Tuscan of the Pacific Coast League and AI Osuna, pitcher; Andujar Cedeno, shortstop; and Luis Ramirez, infielder, from Columbus of the Southern League. LOS ANGELES DODGERs­Activated Pat Perry, pitcher, from the 21-day disabled list. Recalled Jose Vizcaino, infielder, and Darrin Fletcher, catcher, from Albuquerque of the Pacific Coast League and Jim Poole, pitcher, from San Antonio of the Texas League. Purchased the contract of Darren Holmes, pitcher, from Albuqu~rque. MONTREAL EXPOS-Purchased the contract of Rolando Roomes, outfielder, from Indianapolis of the American Association. Recalled Moises Alou, outfielder, and Howard Farmer, from Indianapolis. Activated Nelson Santovenia, catcher, from the 15-day disabled list. NEW YORK METS-Recalled Julio Machado and Kevin Brown, pitchers, from Tidewater of the International League. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES­Purchased the contract of Louie Meadows, outfielder, from Scranton-Wilkes-Barre of the International League. Recalled Ricky Jordan, first baseman, and Chuck McElroy and Chuck Malone, pitchers, from Scranton-Wilkes-Barre. ST. LOUIS CARDINALS­Activated Pedro Guerrero, first baseman, from the 15-day disabled list. Recalled Geronimo Pena, infielder; Ray Stephens, catcher; Bernard Gilkey, outfielder; Rod Brewer, first baseman; and Mike Perez, pitcher, from Louisville of the American Association. Purchased the contract of Stan Clarke, pitcher, from Louisville. FOOTBALL  and John Miller, defensive backs; Keith Karpinski, linebacker; Pat Marlatt, defensive end; and Larry Jones and Eddie Grant, offensive linemen. Placed Mark Nua, offensive lineman, on the waived-injured list. HOUSTON OILERS-Traded Alonzo Highsmith, running back, to the Dallas Cowboys for undisclosed draft picks. Waived Joey Banes and Doug Williams, offensive tackles; Tommy Robison, offensive guard; Kenny Jackson and Frank Miotke, wide receivers; Victor Jones, running back; Billy Bell, cornerback; Chuck Hartlieb and Don McPherson, quarterbacks; Richard Newbill and John Brantley, linebackers; and Brian Lowe, kicker. INDIANAPOLIS COLTS­Waived Stan Eisenhooth, center; Harvey Wilson, defensive back; James Singletary, linebacker; Dean Brown and Tim Freeman, offensive tackles; Gene Benhart, quarterback; Joe Henderson and Marcus Wilson, running backs; Bill Ames and Pat Davis, tight ends; and Darvell Huffman and Tim Finkelston, wide receivers. Placed Camel Smith, defensive lineman, on injured reserve. KANSAS CITY CHIEFS­Waived Willie Davis and J.J. Birden, wide receivers; Sherrod Rainge, defensive back; Gene Chilton, offensive guard; Michael Harris, offensive tackle; Peter Shorts, defensive tackle; and Walker Lee Ashley, linebacker. Received two-week roster exemptions for Kevin Ross, cornerback, and Louis Cooper, linebacker. LOS ANGELES RAIDERS­Signed Steve Bauerlein, quarterback, and received a two-week roster exemption for him. Waived Derrick Crudup and Elvis Patterson, defensive backs; Vince Evans and Jeff Francis, quarterbacks; Trey Junkin, tight end; Kerry Porter, fullback; Darin Jordan, Ricky Hunley and Ron Burton, linebackers; Bruce Davis, offensive tackle; and Stefan Adams, wide receiver. Placed Anthony Smith, defensive end, on injured reserve. LOS ANGELES RAMS-Agreed to terms with Kevin Greene, linebacker, on a three-year contract. Signed Michael Stewart, safety, to a two-year contract. MIAMI DOLPHINS-Waived Greg Baty, tight end; African Grant, safety; Chris Haering and Stacey Harvey, linebackers; Jett t-auiKner, aerens1ve end; Jeff Roth, nose tackle; Jim Zdelar, offensive tackle; Tony Brown, offensive guard; Garrett Limbrick, fullback; and Thomas Woods, wide receiver. Placed Donnie Elder, cornerback,  NEW ORLEANS SAINTS­Waived Derrick Carr, defensive end; Buford Jordan, fullback; Lonnie Brockman, linebacker; Tony Woods, nose tackle; Scott Hough, offensive guard; Chris Port, offensive tackle; Jason Garrett, quarterback; and Alvin Lee, Derek Washington and Roger McGee, wide receivers. Placed Todd Wheeler, center, on injured reserve and Calvin Nicholson, defensive back. and Tracy Simien and Alvin Toles, linebackers, on the waived-injured list. Acquired Robert Goff, defensive lineman, from Tampa Bay for a 1Oth round pick in the 1991 draft. NEW YORK GIANTs-Placed Adrian White, safety, on injured reserve. Waived Joe Morris, running back; Sheldon White and Howard Feggins, cornerbacks; Craig Kupp, quarterback; Greg Mark and Tim Downing, defensive linemen; Roy Brown and Ed Cunningham, offensive linemen; Randy Thornton and Mark Dennis, linebackers; Thornton Chandler, tight end; and Troy Kyles, wide receiver. NEW YORK JETS-Waived Mickey Shuler, tight end. Traded Roger Vick, running back, to the Philadelphia Eagles for undisclosed draft choices. Waived Curt Singer and Mike Withycombe, offensive linemen; Tony Savage, defensive tackle; Basil Proctor, linebacker; and Mike Martin, wide receiver. PHILADELPHIA EAGLES­Waived Cris Carter, Marvin Hargrove and Tyrone Watson, wide receivers; Matt Cavanaugh, quarterback; Carl Dawson and Horacia Moronta, defensive tackles; Ervin Farris, James Gray and Adam Walker, running backs; Owen Hooven, offensive tackle; Michael Husar, offensive guard; Maurice Johnson, tight end; and Gary Kinne, linebacker. PHOENIX CARDINALS-Waived Gary Hogeboom, quarterback; John Jackson, Amod Field and Dempsey Norman, wide receivers; Travis Davis and Gary Hadd, defensive tackles; Chris Chenault and Vernon Maxwell, linebacker; Dennis Smith, tight end; Mickey Washington, cornerback; William Howard, running back; and Ralph Jarvis, defensive end. PITTSBURGH STEELERS­Waived Rodney Carter, Weegie Thompson, Mark Stock and Lorenzo Davis, wide receivers; Billy Griggs, tight end; Tim Tyrell and Kimble Anders, running backs; Darryl Holmes and Billy Owens. safeties; Richard Shelton, cornerback; Eddie Miles. linebacker; and John Buddenberg, offensive tackle.  
8. Tennessee (1) 9. Clemson  1-0-1 1-0-0  1,073 998  8 10  National  Football League ATLANTA FALCONS- and Dave Popp, offensive tackle, on injured reserve. Placed Jckie Cline, defensive  SAN DIEGO CHARGERS­Waived Tim Spencer, Darrin Nelson and  
10. Nebraska (1) 11.111inois  1-0-0 0-0-0  992 896  7 11  Traded Shawn Lee, nose tackle, to the Miami Dolphins for an undisclosed 1991  lineman, and Stacey Searls, offensive lineman, on the waived-injured list.  Thomas Sanders, running backs; Terence Cleveland, wide receiver; Andy Parker, tight  
12. Texas A&M  1-0-0  806  13  draft pick. Signed Guy Bingham, center, and  MINNESOTA  VIKINGS- end; Nate Hill, nose tackle; Gerald Robinson,  
13. Alabama  0-0-0  704  12  received a two-week roster exemption for  Signed  Willie  Fears,  defensive  tackle.  defensive end; Dennis McKnight, Jeff Novak  
14. Virginia 15. Arkansas 16. Brigham Young 17. Pittsburgh 18. Ohio St.  1-0-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 1-0-0 0-0-0  668 612 536 505 489  15 14 16 18 17  him. Waived Stacey Bailey, wide receiver; Rickey Royal, cornerback; George Streeter, defensjve back; Ben Thomas, defensive end; Donnie Salum, linebacker; Tony Bowick, nose tackle; Ben Utt and Stan  Waived Leo Lewis, Andy Schillinger and Reggie Thornton, wide receivers; Jessie Clark and Wayne Williams, running backs; Donald Smith and Pat Eilers, defensive backs; Marion Hobby and Shawn Knight,  and Larry Williams, offensive guards; Joe Staysniak, offensive tackle; and Michael Brooks and Bruce Plummer, safeties. SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS­Waived Jim Fahnhorst, Keena Turner and  - 
19. UCLA  0-0-0  420  19  Clayton, offensive guards; Gilbert Renfroe,  defensive linemen; Ron Goetz, linebacker;  Antonio  Goss,  linebackers,  and  John  
20. Washington 21. Penn St. 22. Michigan St. 23. Oklahoma  0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0  358 309 291 266  20 21 23 22  quarterback; Undra Johnson, running back; Elbert Shelley, safety; and Troy Sadowski, tight end. CHICAGO BEARS-Waived  Bucky_ Scribner, punter; Jim Gallery, placekicker; Robert Lyons, safety; and Darryl Ingram, tight end. NEW ENGLAND  Shannon, defensive lineman. SEATTLE SEAHAWKS-Signed Cortez Kennedy, linebacker. TAMPA BAY  
24. Houston  0-0-0  184  24  John Mangum, cornerback; Brent White,  PATRIOTS-Waived Marvin Allen and  BUCCANEERS-Waived Derrick Douglas  
25. West Virginia  1-0-0  146  25  defensive end; Dick Chapura, defensive tackle; Pat Chaffey and Scott Williams,  Jamie Morris, running backs; Kitrick Taylor, wide receiver; Lin Dawson, tight end; Shawn  and Lars Tate, running backs; Donald lgwebuike, placekicker; Terry Anthony and  
Other receiving votes: Arizona 83, Fresno St. 53, Georgia 50, Arizona St. 49, Florida 29, Oregon 21, Georgia Tech 19, Texas 19, South Carolina 15, N. Carolina St. 12, Mississippi 10, Louisville 8, Hawaii 6, Iowa 6, Syracuse 6, Colorado St. 5, Baylor 3, N. Illinois 3, Kentucky 2, Texas Tech 2, Washington St. 2, Cent. Michigan 1, LSU 1, Purdue 1, Toledo 1.  fullbacks; Glenell Sanders and Troy Johnson, linebackers; Chris Dyko, offensive tackle; and Quintin Smith and Tom Waddle, wide receivers. Placed Tony Moss, wide receiver, on the waived-injured list. Received  Bouwens, David Douglas, Eric Still and Bob White, offensive linemen; Billy Keys, defensive lineman; Tim Jordan, Ed Williams and Ilia Jarostchuk, linebackers; and Brian Hutson, safety.  Chris Ford, wide receivers; Donnie Gardner and Willie Wyatt, defensive linemen; Maurice Oliver, linebacker; Sean Lucas, defensive back; and Chris Mohr, punter. Placed Dan Graham, center, on injured reserve.  


---~-­
---~-----­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, September 4, 1990 
Highsmith dealt; Morris, Turner, Wright released 
Alonzo Highsmith went to Dallas and Joe Morris, Eric Wright, Keena Turner, Gary Hogeboom, Matt Bahr, Donald Igwebuike and Cris Carter into limbo Monday as NFL teams cut down to the 4 7-man roster limit. 
Highsmith, the Oilers' No. 1 draft pick in 1987, was un­derutilized in an offense that had four players competing for one position. 
He was sent to his college coach, Jimmy Johnson, for some of the high draft picks the Cowboys got for Herschel Walker and fills the running back void Dallas has had since Walker left last season. 
Some of the other big names were just waived, although some could be recalled -many teams cut players, then re­claim them after they clear waivers. 

Class 
continued from page 12 
JUNIORS 
JUNIORS 
JUNIORS 
The Class Cruise is Coming I September 13, 1990 
Tickets will be on sale in the 
class office daily from 3:00· 
5:00 beginning Sept. 5. Cups, food and LOTS of fun. Tickets are $20. 
DON'T MISS IT! 
Rich alumnus will pay 
BIG$$$$$ 
for football tix application 
call #1782 

SMILE, LOOEYI! It's the second best thing you can do with your lips. What's the first? 
-----...------------------------------­
DRUMMER wanted for rock band withATIITUDE. CaiiJ.P. 271· 0742. 
PRAYEA MEETING Thursdays@ 7:30pm Siegfried Chapel ?? call Eileen x4815 
$5 HAIRCUTS!!II REGUlAR & ROTC 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
SOUTH BEND 
233-4767 
Need tix for Miami, Penn State, Air Force! call Julie X1992 
ARE YOU GAY. LESBIAN, OR BISEXUAL? Weekly discussion groups forming. For info call Carol 232-3330 or Mike 237-0788. 

OVERSEAS AND ~RUISESHIPS EMPLOYMENT. Many positions. Work Month-HOIIt Mowth. Call (105) 612-7555 Ext. 5-1912 
looking for a really good housing deal? Male (undergraduate) roommate needed to share an apartment/house. Washer-dryer, air. storage space. $100-$175 a month--includes every1hing. (Call late!) Bill 234-4995 
Do you like camping and kids? Can you spare one weekend a month? ND/SMC counselors needed for a local school's environmental camping club--"Earth Crusaders." Need also musicians for evening campfire. Call Bill (late) 234-4995 
THE SHIRT 

-THE SHIRT 
THE SHIRT 
GET PSYCHED! 
GET PSYCHED! 
GET PSYCHED! 
THE SHIRT 
THE SHIRT 
THE SHIRT 
Can Still be Purchased on LaFortune's 2nd Floor SUB Secretary's Desk until ga:\!-' dayl 
Dallas, for example, waived Keith Willis, its only kicker but hoped to bring him back if no one else grabs him within 24 hours. 
"We hope Willis is not claimed," coach Jimmy Johnson said. "We looked at our roster to see where we are safest. We should be able to re-obtain rights to these players tomor­row." 
And Detroit waived three running backs, leaving Barry Sanders as the only one at that position."I wouldn't be sur­prised if you see a few of these guys back here in the future," coach Wayne Fontes said. 
Fontes might want to take a look at Morris, the Giants' all­time leading rusher, who was caught in a glut of running backs that includes No. 1 pick Rodney Hampton and Lewis Tillman. 

Travel to MEDUGORJE for FALL 
VISA OR MASTERCARD! 

BREAK!! Come to 443 PW at 
8:00 Wed or call Barb #3687 
Even if bankrupt or bad 
credit! We guarantee you a 

ND· watch out!lll 10 more
card or double your money 

days until Molly Jason turns 
back. 
21!!1 
Call (805) 682-7555 

Valentines
Ext. M1443. 


But he really lost out to 33­

year-old Ottis Anderson, kept 
because he's a better receiver, 
blocker and short-yardage 
runner. Last year, Anderson 
rushed for more than 1,000 
yards after Morris broke a foot 
in the last game of the presea­
son. 
"I think Joe Morris has made a very signifigcnt and continu­ous contribution to this club, and to the Bill Parcells regime," coach Bill Parcells said of Mor­ris, who rushed for 5,296 yards in eight years with New York, including 1,516 in 1986, when New York won the Super Bowl. 
"In the length of time that I have been here he is one of sev­eral guys who has driven the car and not been a passenger." 
It was a bad day overall for the Morris family -Joe's brother Jamie, signed by New England as a Plan B free agent, was cut by the Patriots. 
I need Michigan tickets, student or GA. Call 4189 and ask for Molly. 
Sax player formerly of Boathouse Blues Band seeks group. Blues, Funk, Jazz, Rock Contact Bill at 273-9641 
Wright, a cornerback, and Turner, a linebacker, were two of the five 49ers who had played on all four of the team's Super Bowl winners. The others are quarterback Joe Montana, safety Ronnie Lott and wide re­ceiver Mike Wilson, the jour­neyman who once again sur­vived. 
"They told me that they were waiving me and I really didn't ask for a reason," said Turner. "I still feel that I can play." 
Among the other name play­ers to go were Carter, who caught 45 passes for Philadel­phia last season, 11 for touch­downs; the Eagles' third-string quarterback, 13-year veteran Matt Cavanaugh, Hogeboom, Phoenix' only veteran quarter­back, and Buford Jordan, New Orleans' starting fullback the past four years. 
Dallas cut three running backs it recently acquired ­
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE still nas positions available for SOUND TECHNICIANS STEPAN BUILDING MONITORS and THEODORES ROOM MONITORS. To apply stop by 315LaFortune. 
Timmy Smith, who rushed for a record 205 yards for Washing­ton in the 1988 Super Bowl and former No. 1 picks Terrence Flagler and Lorenzo Hampton. 
Igwebuike, Tampa Bay's all­time leading scorer, lost his job to free agent Steve Christie. The Bucs also cut Lars Tate, their leading rusher the last two years. Bahr, the 11-year kicker for the Browns, was beaten out by Jerry Kauric, a Canadian league veteran. He took an in­jury settlement because of a back injury suffered against Green Bay in an exhibition. 
Cleveland also cut quarter­back Pat Ryan, linebackers Clifford Charlton and Larry McGrew and defensive end Daryl Sims. 
The New York Jets traded fullback Roger Vick, a three­year starter, to Philadelphia for draft choices. 
MovelOyears aheadofthe class. 

Mike F.,Monica M. & Eileen G.: Thanks tor doing the "night shifts". Too bad we're only on the 47 yd. lineI! ··Chris 

Dear Sid: Which Hacienda"? I'm bringing my friend Angie with me. Do you have any good looking roommates?--Brunette 

The new HP 48SX and a free 'library card' can get you there. 
Wlth over 2100 built-in functions, our new HP 48SX Scientific Expandable calculator takes a quantum leap into the 21st century. Buy an HP 48SX between August 15 and October 15, 1990, and HP will send you a free HP Solve Equation Library card (a $99.95 retail value). 
The plug-in application card alone contains more than 300 science and engineering equations, as well as 
the pHi odic table, a constants' library, and a multi-equation solver. It's like 
having a stack of reference books right at your fingertips. 
The HP 48SX calculator is so advanced, it will change the way you solve prob· !ems forever. It integrates graphics with calculus, lets you enter equations the way you write them, and does automatic unit management. 
Check your campus bookstore or HP retailer for HP's range of calculators and special back-to-school offers. Then check out the calculators that are years ahead of their class. 
There is a better way. 
r;;;-HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 
..,. .......,..., .....____ ....,.._ .........
~--_._ 

Tuesday, September 4, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Drabek four-hits Phils en route to 18th victory 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Doug Cincinnati for its fourth 
Drabek won his 18th game by straight victory. tossing a four-hitter to pitch With two outs in the the sev­the Pittsburgh Pirates past the enth and the score 6-6, Gregg 
Phillies 4-1 on Monday. doubled against Tim Layana (5­
Drabek (18-5), improving to 2) and Thomas followed with a 9-1 since the All-Star break, double. Jim Vatcher added an has pitched three complete­RBI single. game victories over the Phillies Mark Grant (2-2), who gave this season, allowing just seven up two hits in four scoreless 
hits and two earned runs (0.67 innings, got the victory in relief ERA) in 27 innings. of starter Steve Avery, who 
Trying to become only the Pi­yielded six runs and seven hits rates' third 20-game winner in in three innings. Jeff Parrett the last 31 seasons, Drabek is worked two innings for his sec­42-19 after the All-Star break ond save. in his career and has yielded six earned runs in 37 2-3 innings 
Expos 3, Cubs 2

(1.19 ERA) while going 4-0 in MONTREAL (AP) -Andres his last five starts. 
Galarraga .singled home Delino DeShields from third base with Mets 9, Cardinals 3 two outs in the 12th inning to lift Montreal past Chicago.
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Dwight DeShields opened the 12thGooden gave up six hits over with a single off Randy Kramer seven innings to win for the (0-2) and was sacrificed to sec­12th time in his last 13 deci­ond by Otis Nixon before mov­sions and Kevin McReynolds ing to third on a single by Mar­drove in four runs as New York quis Grissom. Grissom went tobeat St. Louis for its seventh 
second on Tim Wallach's

straight victory. Phillies. • ' 
grounder and Larry Walker, a

Gooden (15-6) struck out five The Red Sox had two-run
liever Jeff Montgomery when ended Boston's 10-game win­
and walked two before Wally .238 hitter, was walked inten­homers by Mike Marshall, his
Sammy Sosa was hit by a pitch, ning streak, longest in thetionally before Galarraga sin­
Whitehurst relieved to start the third, and Tom Brunansky, his
stole second and scored on a American League this year. In a seventh.· Whitehurst finished, gled up the middle. 
possible playoff preview be­lOth.
Steve Frey (7-2) pitched one single by Robin Ventura. 
giving up three runs and three tween the AL's division leaders, 
Fisk's homer made a winner
inning for the victory. 

hits in the ninth. of reliever Wayne Edwards (4-the A's quickly kayoed rookie Texas 6, Indians 2 
McReynolds drove in the Nolan Ryan got his 302nd ca­
3) and ended a six-game win­Dana Kiecker (6-7).
Mets' first run in the fourth in­White Sox 4, K.C. 2 reer victory by holding Cleve­
ning streak for Kevin Appier Oakland's Scott Sanderson 
ning with a double and hit his Carlton Fisk extended his land to one run and two hits in
(11-5), who last lost to Toronto (14-9) struggled for five in­
20th home run with two on in major league record for home eight innings. The 43-year-old
on July 28. Thigpen pitched the nings, allowing three runs. 
runs by a catcher to 330 with a

the ninth. Former Cardinal ninth for his 47th save in 54 Oakland's Rickey Henderson hit Ryan (13-7) struck out eight 
Tom Herr and Darryl Straw­tie-breaking shot in the sixth opportunities, breaking the a solo homer off Wes Gardner and walked two. John Barfield inning and Bobby Thigpen set a
berry added three hits each for yielded a pinch homer to Mitch
mark of 46 set by Dave Righetti in the seventh while Mark
record with his 47th save.

the Mets, who are 10-5 against McGwire and Willie McGee had Webster in the ninth. Mike
of the New York Yankees in
The upper deck homer was

St. Louis this season. two-run singles for the A's, Walker (1-5) was the loser as
1986.
Fisk's 15th of the season and who maintained their 6 1/2-the Indians suffered theiT 35lst of his career, moving him

Braves 8, Reds 6 A's 9, Red Sox 5 game lead over Chicago in the eighth straight loss.
into a tie for 41st place on the

ATLANTA (AP) -Consecutive Terry Steinbach capped a AL West. Despite the loss, the Texas took a 2-0 lead in the 
all-time list with Dick Allen.

doubles by Tommy Gregg and five-run first inning with a Red Sox remained 6 1/2 in front third on RBI singles by Gary
The White Sox added an insur­

Andres Thomas broke a sev­Pettis and Jack Daugherty.
of Toronto in the AL East.
three-run homer as Oakland
ance run in the eighth off re­enth-inning tie as Atlanta beat 



FALL BREAK SEMINARS 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
INFORMATION AT STUDENT ACTIVITIES NIGHT & CSC 
AlPlPALACJHIJIAN WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
~lBMJINAJR 
October 21-26 

THE GULF CRISIS 
October 21-26 
-.... 
WOMEN, CHURCH
Chicago 

ANDSOCIEIT 
October 21-26

Cultural Diuersity ... 
October 21-27 


esc 239 -7943 

.. , page 16 The Observer Tuesday, September 4, 1990 
(, .. '.' 
49ers 
continued from page 20 
Buddy Ryan's Philadelphia Eagles will rise to the top of the NFC East as QB Randall Cunningham will hook WR Mike Bellamy up with the Offensive Rookie of the Year award. The New York Giants' defense will propel them to a wild card spot; Coach Bill Parcells always gets the most out of his play­ers, and explosive second-year RB Dave Meggett will provide his share of fireworks. 
The Washington Redskins are terribly talented at the skill po­sitions with WRs Art Monk, Ricky Sanders and Gary Clark, RBs James Wilder, Earnest Byner, Gerald Riggs and Kelvin Bryant, and QB Mark Rypien. But the 'Skins don't have much else, and should finish 9-7. Rookie RB Anthony Thompson may be the lone bright spot for the Phoenix Cardinals, and Jimmy Johnson's Dallas Cowboys will be lucky if they win two games. 
The Minnesota Vikings are a lot like the Bills; they have a Jot of talent, but they spend a lot of time fighting amongst them-

DRIVE STRAIGHt 
INDIMA. ' 

prove that last year was a fluke third straight Super Bowl titln ------------------------, 

~~~~ 
Nick's • O""a"waao 
8
~t FA:~: BfND 
IN 

~~ RESTAURANT 
277-7400 

Breakfast_ Lunch and Dinner 
..................... ················~·=·=·~ 
CF 

CAMPUS FELLOWSHIP 
Are You Looking For: *More Meaning In Your Life? *Commited Christian Friendships? *Intelligent and Challenging Christianity? *Christian Social Events? 
Stop By Our Booth at Activities Night 
WE ARE LOOKING FORWARD TO MEETING YOU! 
San Francisco has talent, ex­
perience and Joe Montana, the 
best QB ever to play the game. 
The Los Angeles Rams are the 
second-best team in the NFL, 
but they have the misfortune of 
playing in the same division as 
the 'Niners; still, they should 
easily sew up a wild card. 
QB John Fourcade led the New Orleans Saints to victory in their last three games last year, but with a weak defense, the Saints should be grateful if they finish 8-8. And finally, the Atlanta Falcons will bring up the rear in the NFC West, although they should be better this year after the acquisition of WR Andre Rison and OG Chris Hinton from Indianapolis. 
So there you have it. I just hope my picks fare better this fall than the Royals and the Cardinals did this summer. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The 1990 Fall University Golf Champi­onship will take place Sept. 8th, 9th, 16th & 23rd. It is open to anyone in the Notre Dame community, but it is also an open tryout for the men's and women's varsity golf teams. The entry fee is $5 and the entry deadline is Monday, Sept. 3 at 5 p.m. Entry forms are available in the golf pro shop. 
Notre Dame rugby meeting for anyone inter­ested in playing for the N.D. rugby club should meet in the Haggar Hall auditorium on Wednesday, Sept. 5 at 5 p.m. No experience or pads necessary. Call Deuce at x3502. 
The Sailing Club will have a meeting today at the boathouse during afternoon practice. Plans for the regatta on Sept. 8th-9th will be discussed. 
The Notre Dame Hockey team will print the ND Hockey Logo on any light colored clothing on Student Activities night for free at the Notre Dame Hockey/Blue Line Club table. 
Anyone interested in joining men's and women's varsity track and field, there will be an im­portant meeting on Friday, Sept. 7th at 4 p.m. in Loftus Auditorium. 

Becker, Graf return to form 
NEW YORK {AP) -Stnfii Graf sent Jennifer Capriati back to school with a lesson she'll never forget, a two-set course in playing like a cham­pion in the U.S. Open. 
Graf, the two-time defending champ, played almost perfectly Monday to reach the quarterfi­nals as she dazzled 14-year-old Capriati with powerful ground­strokes and defied a packed crowd cheering for the nervous ninth-grader. 
Grafs 6-1, 6-2 vieton was complete in every reRpect: a 53­minute slaughter that was far more convincing than her 6-2, 6-4 triumph over C'ipriati at Wimbledon, also in the fourth round. 
Boris Becker, the men's de­fending champion and Grafs West German compatriot, played doggedly for more than three hours before finding a way to beat gutsy Australian Darren Cahill, 2-6, 6-2, 6-3, 3­6, 6-4, and gain the quarters. 
Becker will play No. 9 Aaron Krickstein, who beat Amos Mansdorf 6-3, 6-4, 6-4. 
America's top player, fourth­seeded Andre Agassi, had an easy time getting to the quar­ters, bP.ating Jay Berger 7-5, 6­0, 6-2. 
Graf next goes against 12th­SP.eded Jana Novotna, who beat No. 7 Katerina Maleeva 6-4, 6­
2. Fourth-seeded Zina Garrison also advanced to the quarters, heating Nathalie Tauziat of France 11-1. 7-5. Garrison will meet Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, a 6-4, 6-:~ \vinner over Barbara Pa~lus. 
Grafs victory came on the same day when she was ranked No. l for the 160th straight week, a record for both men and women. 
It was obvious early in the first set, when Capriati seemed tentative and her usually solid forehands and backhands floated long or into the net, that she was suffering a case of stage fright. 
"At the beginning I couldn't hit a ball," said Capriati, overly excited "just going out there knowing that you're on the sta­dium court, and everybody's going to be out there watch­ing." 
Capriati had said before the match that she was "psyched up" and ready to attack Graf. She said she told herself at the start of play, "keep moving, at­tack a lot, serve well." 
But nothing came. Instead, she stood and watched Graf as if trying to record in her mem­ory how she plays. 
"If you don't lose, you don't learn," Capriati said. "Every match you lose, you learn something from it. At first, I wasn't doing anything, not making shots, not coming to the net. Next time I can't let that happen. She's definitely still at another level." 
selves. Look for the Vikings to keep their battles on the field this year and cruise to a 13-3 record behind defensive linemen Chris Doleman and Keith Millard. The Detroit Lions will continue to improve until somebody finds a way to stop RB Barry Sanders (1,470 yards rushing as a rookie last year), but will come up just short of a wild card spot. 
The Green Bay Packers will by slumping to f..-1 0 desp.ite sterling years from WR Sterhng Sharpe and LB Tim Harris (19 1/2 sacks in 1989). The Chicago Bears will continue to fall to­ward the bottom of the NFC Central; RB Neal Anderson can't carry the whole offense on his shoulders; and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers will have their typical 5-11 season. 

Finally, the 49ers will win the NFC West on the way to their 

/ 
Polb~fi~l.P~· J.c.auren
r\1 Factory Store 
RETAIL HELP 

The Polo/Ralph Lauren Factory Store is seeking qualified individuals to fill the following positions for Its Michigan City, IN Factory store: 
DEPARTMENT MANAGER Fl'IPI' SALES ASSOCIATES 
Experience with bettermen's and women's apparel preferred. Excellent benefits provided. Salary commensurate with experience. Please apply in person at: 
olo/Ralph Lauren Factory Store Lighthouse Place 101 Wabash Street Michiran City, IN 

PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEETINGS 
TUES SEPT. 4 7PM MON SEPT. 10 7PM Library Auditorium 
Seminar on how to write an effective personal statement with Prof. Marullo 
* Both sessions are mandatory* 
:DINNER SPECIAL
•
: Purchase eny dinner 
: at regular price end receive another dinner of equal or lesser value at half price with this coupon. 

DINNER SPECIAL •
•
•

Purchase any dinner •
•
at regular price and •
•
receive another dinner : of equal or lesser value: at half price with this:
•

coupon. : 
page 17

Tuesday, September 4, 1990 The Observer 
Devoted football fans camp out for season tix 
Football Ticket Sale Information 
Juniors: TODAY Law/Grad Students: Wednesday, Sept. 5 Sophomores: Thursday, Sept. 6 Freshmen: Friday, Sept. 7 

Issue Hours: 9:00AM-8:00PM 
Bring application, student I.D. and remittance to Gate 1 0, JACC. One student may present 

maximum 4 applications and I.D. cards. 
The Observer 

rfl) Itbringsoutthe bestinallof us:· 
United way 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The chaos that is ticket dis­tribution officially began at 2 
p.m. Sunday afternoon, as die­hard Irish followers Bob Win­cer, Greg Wong and Company staked their claim as first in a long line of seniors. 
Wincer, Wong & Co., whose name might conjure up images of a monolithic law firm, are actually four individuals who represent a group of 26 stu­dents from Dillon and Morrissey who have made the quest to be first in line a yearly ritual of their own. 
"We've been first in line for three out of four years. Sophomore year we weren't first," noted a visibly proud Greg Wong. "We tried to line up last night (Saturday) at 4 p.m., but security broke us up." 
While some may be confused about why such an unconven­tional slumber party is so popular, there is no mystery for Wincer, Wong & Co. 
"We just like to do this be­cause of the fun and the people. We might have a different opinion tomorrow morning, but it's sure a lot of fun tonight." 
Late-night camping activities included (allegedly) barbecuing, hot dog-and marshmallow­roasting, consumption of (non­alcoholic) light beer and other miscellaneous forms of relax­ation. Of course, the ubiquitous Notre Dame security staff en­hances the entertainment value of the experience. 
"Security has been sort of picky this year," noted one stu­dent who spoke on condition of anonymity. "Security took numbers, and they've been pretty cool. Security really hasn't been much trouble. Of course, the seniors tend to keep themselves under control." 
Of course, different people came to sleep out with different expectations. While a handful of zealots told of hopes for a late-night sighting of Irish head coach Lou Holtz, most students polled simply expressed a de­sire to have a good time. 
"This is just lots of fun," at­tested Greg Wong. "We like camping out, and I think that we're men of courage. Really, this is something we can tell our grandchildren." 
A surprising number of the early-morning revelers were participating in the renowned right of fall for their first time, including some who told of no desire to have better seats than they might have had by lining up the next morning. 
"I've never lined up out here before," explained Jay Blount. "It's a good party, a good chance to socialize and drink Sharp's and Canada Dry ginger ale." 
"This is just for fun, we don't care where we sit," concurred Kelly Kolodzie and Angela Sheve. "We don't have any homework tonight, and this is something we wanted to do be­fore we graduate." 
"I want to watch the stars," added senior class president Mike Shinnick. "Senior week was great, and everyone is ex­cited about football season, so sleeping out adds to the fun. By the way, since the senior picnic was rained out, it's been rescheduled for Wednesday from 7-9 p.m. outside of Senior Bar -free food, of course." 
One fmal enticement to sleep­ing out (at least for male stu­dents) was the overwhelming ratio of women to men (3 to 1). Such a chance for conversation and companionship was the prime motivator for "Frank," who summarized his reason for sleeping out in one simple phrase,"There are more girls out here." 
However, all was not pleasant outside the ACC, as was at­tested to by several Saint Mary's students. While the Belles of Saint Mary's also ex­pressed a wish to do what they had never done before and sac­rifice their blood to hordes of mosquitos, they insisted that they were not holding spots in line for any males. 
"We're not wimps," exclaimed' Peggy Kennedy of Holy Cross. "There have been rumors of a tornado warning, but that doesn't bother us." "Of course, it does bother us that we have to pay $15.30 per game ( $92 total cost for six games) when Notre Dame stu­dents pay $11.50 per game. We've always paid more than Notre Dame students. With all this emphasis placed on im­proving relations between our two schools, how can we sit amongst Notre Dame students and still pay more?" posited one Saint Mary's student. "With so much talk of equality, we're not very equal. Twenty-three dollars is a big difference, con­sidering the fact that we're get­ting the same seats." Today, juniors will purchase tickets, with law and graduate students lining up on Wednes­day, sophomores on Thursday, and freshmen on Friday. 
STORE HRS. MON.-SAT. PRICES GOOD 9 A.M.-9 P.M. 9/4 THRU 9/8 SUN., 'TIL 6 P.M.BIG LOTS® QUANTITY IIIGHTS IIESfiiVED I I New Closeout Bargains DESK ORGANIZER WITHEvery Week LAMP $6.99 WILKINSON SWORD SYSTEM IJ RAZORS 49¢ 99¢ COMP. TO $2.99 LARGE FAMU.Y SIZE I HINGED LID IS STURDY.M-QU.AJn' COCJI.I:Jl ENOUGH TO BE USED A8 , ATABLE OR FOR EXTRA SEATING il'ff rRICIIIG USfO ON SAME OR SIIIIUR liE liS SOLD E1.5El1Hf Af IN IIAAKfT Allf AWf DO 1101 ACCfn llfR l COUI'Oin  


~-~--~~--­
page 18 The Observer 
•

Volleyball team falters 1n weekend tournament 
Notre Dame drops tough matches to Montana, Mississippi and Washington State in tourney 
By MIKE KAMRADT Sports Writer 
It's gut-check time for the women's volleyball team. After three straight losses this week­end, the Irish will need to pull themselves together before this weekend's Notre Dame Invita­tional. The Irish dropped matches to Montana (15-13,4­15,8-15,7-15), Mississippi (10­15,14-16,8-15) and Washington State (9-15,3-15,9-15). 
"Admittedly. I'm disap­pointed," said Head Coach Art Lambert. "We used a number of different line-ups and combina­tions. Through the pre-season you think you've got things set up. But then you realize your choices are based on practice-against one another. In pre­season the confidence stays high and the tPam stays loose." "That doesn't hold when you meet other teams, though. Peo-
Outland 
continued from page 20 

ners for this prestigious award. Zorich could become the third IriSh lineman, and the first since defensive end Ross Browner in 1976, to win the Outland Trophy, but he will have to have an outstanding season to do so. 
Zorich, a 6-1, 266-pound se­nior who was a consensus All­American last season, is a con­verted linebacker who relies primarily on his speed (he runs the 40-yard dash in 4.68 sec­onds) and quickness to make the play. He is also among the strongest players on the Irish squad; he bench pressed 455 pounds this past spring. 
Defensive tackle Russell Maryland of Miami might be listed as a co-favorite along with Zorich to win the Outland Trophy. Like Zorich, this 6-2, 27 3-pound fifth-year senior hails from Chicago; but unlike Zorich, Maryland was not even recruited out of high school. Maryland has been overshad­owed in the past by outstanding Miami linemen such as Greg Mark, Bill Hawkins, and Cortez Kennedy. 
This year Maryland will be the marquee lineman for the Hurricanes, and he should be ready to dominate. The return­ing All-American had 83 tackles last year. and will depend on his outstanding foot speed (he runs a 4.8 40-yard dash) to get into enemy backfields. 
If Zorich and Maryland are shut out, look for senior nose tackle Moe Gardner of Illinois to sneak in and pick up the award. Gardner's supporting cast at Illinois has neither the talent nor the hype to compete with Notre Dame or Miami, but if the Illini defense comes to­gether and propels the team to the Rose Bowl, Gardner will re­ceive a lot of credit and a lot of votes. 
Gardner is small for a defen­sive lineman at 6-2 and 250 pounds, but he is noted for in­tense, physical play, and he could inspire his teammates to achieve a higher level in their play. 
The top offensive lineman in the Outland race is offensive guard Ed King of Auburn. The 6-4, 284-pound junior is being touted as the best offensive lineman in college football. If Auburn has a great season as expected, King could make a run at Zorich or Maryland. 
Another offensive lineman, 6­4, 300-pound fifth-year senior center John Flannery of Syra­cuse, passed up a chance to be pie don't fit together as they do in practice." 
The Irish started out alright in their first match against Montana, winning 15-13. 
"In retrospect, we were lucky to win that game," said Lam­bert. "We had a run in serving and they couldn't pass the ball at the end of the game and we came back to win." 
Things quickly went awry as Montana swept the next three games. 
Offensively, Notre Dame only registered a .085 kill percent­age (kills-errors/total at­tempts), while Montana had a .200. The Irish were also beaten badly in assists, 45-28, and recorded only 35 digs to Montana's 54. 
Nothing went well against Mississippi. 
"We beat ourselves," ex­plained Lambert. "It was more a case of us not doing the 
picked in the first round of the NFL draft in order to play in his final year of eligibility for the Orangemen. Flannery is an outstanding run blocker and long snapper who should be 

I

This semester, take some electives 
in communications. I 
Jennifer Slosar 

things we should be than them beating us. There were so many unforced errors it was incredi­ble." 
The Irish had 23 attack (kill) errors and 10 service errors in addition to only 31 digs for the match. 
considered at the top of the list of dark horse candidates. 
Other dark horses include de­fensive tackle Scott Evans of Oklahoma, offensive tackle Stacy Long of Clemson, ofTen-
The dismal weekend contin­ued against Washington State. The Irish went three more games without a win, running their winless streak to nine. The Irish were doubled in at­tack percentage as Washington State registered a .443 to only .221 for the Irish women. 
However, the weekend was not without some bright spots for the Irish. 
"I was real pleased with Jen Slosar at left side," said Lam­bert." She hit extremely well against Washington State. Janelle Karlan did a good job setting in the last two matches." 
Slosar led the team for the weekend in kills (23) and attack percentage (.296). She did most of that damage to Washington State, who saw the junior out­side hitter blast them with 18 kills in 35 attempts. 
Karlan, a freshman. racked 
sive guard Joe Garten of Col­orado and defensive tackle Ge­orge Williams of Notre Dame 
The player who wins the Out­land Trophy will not get as much recognition as the Heis­up 7 4 of the 97 Irish assists for the· weekend and may have brought the Irish the stability and consistency they need at setter. 
Sophomore middle hitter Jes­sica Fieblekorn was second in kills with 22 and led the team in digs with 15. Colleen Wagner pounded down 19 kills. 
The scary thing about the 
past weekend is that none of 
the teams the Irish faced would 
rival some of the powerhouses 
they will face later in the year: ~ 
"None of these teams would even be in the top 30 by any stretch of the imagination," said Lambert. "If we want to be a Top 20 team, we can't lose to teams like that. We have to overcome what happened. It can be done, but it won't be easy. This coming weekend. we'll find out what we're made of." 
man winner, but at least he will have the satisfaction of know­ing that he is the best player where it matters the most-in the trenches. 
l 


Introdud.ng.A18if StudentSaver Plus. 
This year it'll be easier to get through college. Because Al&T has put together a program of products and services 
that can you money. Whether 
you live on or off campus. 
You don't need to waittill spring to getabreak. 
With the AI&'Reach Out' America Plan", you'll get savings 24 hours a clay, 7 days aweek. Including 25% off our already low evening prices':' 
Keep your roommates in line. 
We11 separate your long distance calls from your roommates' calls with AI&'Call Manager: And we11 do it for free. 

• 
This servia ID2)' not be awUable In resldencr halls on yoor campus. 

• 
Disoount appli<s toout-ol-swe calls dlJ<Ct.dJaled 5-10 pro. Sunday-ftlday. c 1990Allf 


60 minutes of long distance. Forfree. Movies. Videos. And more. For less. 
just by choosjng any Stu­dent Saver Plus program, you11 get up to 60 minutes of free long distance calls. You'll also get a free coupon booklet 
gocxi for savings all around town. 

Call from anywhere to anywhere. 
We'll give you a 

free AI&'Calling Card, even ifyou don't have a phone. So you'll be able to make a call from almost any phone and have it billed to you, wherever you live. 
To enroll in the AJ&T Stu­dent Saver Plus programs that are right for you, or to get the best value in long distance ser­vice, call us. They just might be the most profitable electives you11 ever take. 
1800 654-0471 Ext.l230 
Aim'. Helping make college life alittle easier. 

AllaT 
The right choice. 
Tuesday, September 4, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CROSSWORD
CAMPUS 

Tuesday 
7 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "LaJettee," Annenberg Au­ditorium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by Notre Dame Com­munication & Theatre. 
9 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "The Lodger," Annenberg Auditorium. Snite Museum. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication & Theatre. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Yankee Bean Soup Batter Fried Perch Roast Turkey Fettucini Alfredo 

eIt brings out the best in all of us. 
1Jn1tedWay 
ACROSS 27 Solemn 60--Major pledges 61 Become an
1 Kind of plank 31 A neighbor of attorney5 Cheer for June Siberia 65 TwosomeAnderson 33 Shriek 66 Theater path 10 Dull-witted one 

35 Fountain drink 
67 Copperfield's14 "It's a Sin to Tell 36 Weep aloud 

child wife 39 Noah's eldest 

68 Start of the Bay 15 Scandinavian 40 Facilitated State motto race of gods 42 Jacob's twin 69 Daub 16 State to be true 43 Loser to H.C.H.: 70 Exclusively 
17 Take up a collection 19 Food eschewed by a vegetarian 20 Prescribed procedure 21 Tangles 23 Speech oddities 26 Vipers 
1928 
44 Piedmontese city 45 Emphasis 47 Important tuber 49 Bridge seats so Absorbed 51 Loosen 54 Mastics 56 Main course 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
DOWN 1 Hiatus 2Winged 3 Not final, as a decree 4 Exploit sAn Iranian religion 6 Movie units 7 Cigar residue s Byway of 9 --and crafts 
r=t-7'-+~:-1 10 Fabric used for table linen 
"'=:-+'"='+-'+"-~ 11 Highwayfeatures 12 Distributes H=+:~~ cards 

•.....:±+=-i 13 Scraps for Spot BR~~:-+-=-~±+=-~~+.-E-1 180kla. oil center 
-=+:::+==-+:::~+;--~ 22 Space org. 24 Strong love 25 Blackthorn fruit 27 Pelion's 
supporter r:-:+-:-+.--+=-+::-t 28 Yearn -..r=+::::+.::-+.::-1 29 Moral offenses 
-.;,..,r,.;;;,J,;;...&...:....J 30 Haw partner 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
32 Appends 34 Tableland 37 Kiln 38 Kiss 41 Aleutian island 42 Notable period 44Abbr. on an 
envelope 46 Bicuspids 48 Narcotic so Summer TV 
offering 

THE FAR SIDE 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
GARY LARSON 

52 Nikola, the electrical wizard 53 Prefix with mural 54 Obnoxious ss Ems and Baden-Baden 
57 Change the 
decor 58 Black, in poesy 59 Anthony Eden's 
title &2 Goal 63 Opp. of NNW 64 Beam 





Sports
page 20 Tuesday, September 4, 1990 
IS perfect fit for Darnell's new defense
DuBose • 

Linebacker should platoon with Grimm and Stonebreaker following strong spring showing 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
New Notre Dame defensive coordinator Gary Darnell wants the 1990 Irish defense to "explode" off the ball. 
For inside linebacker Demetrius "Demo" DuBose, the approach may have landed him a starting job. 
DuBose's speed, along with excellent winter conditioning and added confidence, impelled the 6-2, 223-pound sophomore to an impressive spring that in­cluded working with Michael Stonebreaker on the No.1 unit for the last two weeks of prac­tice. His performance caused many to speculate that he would replace senior Donn Grimm at the first-line position. 
"The new system has really helped me a lot," said DuBose, who runs the 40-yard dash in 
4.68 seconds. "We're geared toward a running defense that's good for me because I get to use my speed." 

Zorich among Outland Trophy favorites 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 

The Heisman candidates get. all the hype. The players who ­score touchdowns and complete passes always become the me­dia darlings during the college football seasons. 
The 
Post-Season Awards 
Part One of Four 
Yet the experts say that the game is won or lost in the trenches. If this is true, the candidates for the Outland Trophy, awarded each year to the best interior lineman in the country, deserve at least as much attention as their smaller, fleeter Heisman-chas­ing colleagues. 

• 
The leading candidates for this award, which is named for Kansas City surgeon Dr. John 

National College Sportswriters Poll 
The National College Sportswriters Football Poll with first place votes in parentheses and total points. 
1. Miami (16) 449.5 
2. Notre Dame (6) 432.5 
3. Florida State 403 4. Auburn (2) 387 5. Michigan 339 6. Colorado 312 7. usc 301 8. Tennessee 284 9. Nebraska 267 10. Clemson 262 11. Illinois 193 12. TexasA&M 172 13. Alabama 170 13. Virginia 170 
15. Ohio State 130 16. Arkansas 119 17. Pittsburgh 104.5 
18. 
Brigham Young 93.5 

19. 
Penn State 39 20. UCLA 36 


Other receiving votes: Washington 34, 
Houston 34, Oklahoma 24, Michigan State 
20, West Virginia 16, Fresno State 9, 
Syracuse 7, Arizona State 7, Wyoming 5, 
Arizona 2, Louisville 2, Georgia Tech 2, 

i Duke 2, Toledo 1, Oregon 1 . 
I Writers from the following schools participated in the poll: Texas, Kentucky, 
~ Miami (Fla.), San Diego State, Colorado, I 
Clemson, Notre Dame, Illinois, Syracuse, North Carolina State, Florida State, Purdue, 

I 
Brown, California, Utah, Southern 
Methodist, Penn State, Indiana, Auburn, Kansas, Ball State, West Virginia. 
feared in the nation. 

"We're definitely going to be one of the best (group of linebackers)." said DuBose. "Everyone is just so good. If one guy goes down, we always can send in someone who's just as good." 
DuBose attributed his rise within the Irish defense to more than just his quick footspeed. The Seattle native said the win­ter gave him time to mature, get used to school and dedicate himself to earning a spot on the starting roster. 
"I've improved my mental at­titude and grown up a lot," said DuBose. "I realized that I had the chance to play, or even start, for the best college team in the country." 
DuBose showed signs of his talent last season, appearing in all of Notre Dame's last 10 games and completing his rookie year at the Orange Bowl, where he had two tackles against Colorado, including one for an eight-yard loss. 
49ers will threepeat, but why believe me? 
Can the San Francisco 49ers threep· Ken Tysiac 
eat? Will the Denver Broncos be able Associate Sports Editor to overcome the humiliation of the 55­10 shellacking the 'Niners inflicted on them in Super Bowl XXIV? With the National Football League season less than one week away, I feel obliged to answer these and several other ques­tions. Before you take anything writ­ten here too seriously, though, keep in mind that in April I picked the Kansas City Royals and the St. Louis Cardinals to win their divisions. 
Beginning with the AFC East, the Buffalo Bills have the most talent in the AFC on paper now that RB Thurman Thomas and LB Shane Conlan have been signed. The fact remains, however, that the Bills were 0-4 in the preseason and were plagued by internal strife last year. Still, with a defense led by Bruce Smith and overrated LB Cornelius Ben­nett, Buffalo can't help but win the watered-down AFC East. 
The improved Miami Dolphins, featuring hard-hitl!ng safeties Louis Oliver and Jarvis Williams, could give the Bills a run for their money but will fall short, mostly because of an offensive line which no longer adequately protects steadily declining QB Dan Marino. And the rest of the divi­sion? 
Indianapolis super-rookie QB Jeff George will have a nightmarish first season (shades of Troy Aikman?) without suspended RB Eric Dickerson in the backfield. The New England Patriots have talent at wide receiver (Irving Fryar, Hart Lee Dykes, Greg McMurtry) and running back (Jon ~tephens), but that's about the only good thing you can say about them, and the New York Jets are just plain bad. 
The AFC Central, on the other hand, may be the most bal­anced division in the league. Cincinnati, with its high-pow­ered offense. will return to the form which turned Riverfront Stadium into a jungle in 1988. QB Boomer Esiason, RB James Brooks {1,239 yards on 221 carries in 1989) and TE Rodney Homan should put more than enough points on the board to offset the blunders of the weak Bengal defensive front seven. 
First-year Houston Oiler Coach Jack Pardee has the ideal QB for his run-and-shoot offense in Warren Moon. Fleet re­ceivers Drew Hill and Ernest Givins should have a field day in the new offense, as the Oilers should secure a wild card spot. Meanwhile, the Cleveland Browns will slide to 7-9 against a difficult schedule and the Pittsburgh Steelers will find out that their magnificent performance at the end of 1989 was just a fluke. 
The defending AFC champs from Denver will have their troubles this year. The Broncos will manage to secure a wild card, but they will have a tough time shaking off the memory of last year's Super Bowl. The Kansas City Chiefs, mean­while, will unleash RB Christian Okoye, who led the league with 1,480 rushing yards in 1989, and a deep and talented defense in their rise to the top of the AFC West. 
The rest of the West is weak. With Jay Schroeder at QB, Coach Art Shell will have a hard time resurrecting the Raiders of old whether his club plays in Oakland or L.A. The Raiders will still finish ahead of San Diego and Seattle, although the Chargers may get back on track in a year or two with GM Bobby Beathard at the helm. 
sae 49ERS I page 16 

The contribution wasn't sur­prising. A three year starter at Bishop O'Dea High School, Du­Bose played linebacker, re­ceiver, tight end and fullback, leading his team to unbeaten seasons his junior and senior years. As a senior, DuBose's 120 tackles and eight intercep­tions earned him all-state honors, as well as player of the year in Seattle. 
Despite all the attention, Du­Bose isn't about to relax now. He thinks he and the rest of the linebackers still need some work before the opener versus Michigan. 
"We need to work on the little things," said DuRose. ·"And we're having some problems with the fundamentals." 
But, DuBose adds, "We're going to be ready." 
When the defense explodes in Notre Dame Stadium on Sept. 15th, "Demo" plans to be its ig­niter. 
While the defense under former coordinator Barry Al­varez was a little more struc­tured and included more lateral shuffle-stepping, Darnell has implemented a plan that allows the linebackers to read offenses more, rely on their instincts and rapidly commit themselves upfield. 
Although DuBose learned both the "Sam" afid "Mike" po­sitions in his freshman year, this season he should spend most of the time in the "Mike" slot, a place where he can com­bine both strength and speed. DuBose beefed himself up over the winter, adding 15 pounds to his frame, while increasing his bench press from 325 to 355 lbs. and boosting his vertical jump from 29 112 to 31 112 inches. 
As for who starts from game to game, DuBose said it doesn't matter to him, because Darnell has assured both Grimm and DuBose that they'll see plenty of playing time. 

Demetrius DuBose 

"Donnie and I are both neerlPd." said DuBos". "so it's not a big deal who starts. We're both going to play a lot." 
The trio of DuBose, Grimm and Stonebreaker should give Notre Dame one of the best corps of linebackers in the na­tion. Rotating the three is rem­iniscent of the 1988 national championship season when the lethal combination of Stone­breaker, Ned Bolcar and Wes Pritchett was one of the most 
N The ObserverI Andrew McCloskey?tre Dame nose tackle Chris Zorich is listed among the favorites to wm the Outland Trophy award this season. 
H: Outland,. who felt linemen Notre Dame nose guard Chris did not receive the recognition Zorich is among the frontrun­they deserved, come from some of the top football programs in 
see OUTLAND I page 18
the nation. 
Observer Staff Report 

Miami, Fla., is the top team in the first National College Sportswriters Football Poll. 
The Hurricanes, who have won the national championship two of the past three seasons, received 16 first-place votes and 449.5 total points in the panel of college journalists across the country. 
The poll, organized and founded by staff members of The Observer, will appear weekly in college newspapers across the country. More than 30 writers will eventually cast votes in the poll when classes begin at their respective schools. 
Notre Dame, which won the national title in 1989, was sec­ond in the poll. The Irish, who open the season Sept. 15 against Michigan, received six first-place votes and tallied 
432.5 points. 

Florida State, which defeated Nebraska in last year's Fiesta Bowl and finished 10-2, is third with 403 points. Auburn was fourth with two first-place votes and 387 total points, while Michigan was fifth with 339 points. 
Colorado, 0-0-1 after a 31-31 tie with Tennessee in the Dis­neyland Pigskin Classic two weeks ago, received 312 points for sixth place. Southern Cali­fornia, 1-0 after beating Syra­cuse in· the Kickoff Classic, gained 301 points for seventh place, and Tennessee, 1-0-1, had 284 points for eighth place. 
Nebraska had 267 points for ninth place, while Clemson re­ceived 262 points to round out the first 10. 
Illinois received 193 points for 11th place followed by Texas A&M in 12th with 172 points. Alabama, which lost to Miami in last year's Sugar Bowl, and Virginia, a co-fa­vorite in the Atlantic Coast Con­ference this fall, tied for 13th place with 170 points. 
Perennial Big Ten power Ohio State is 15th with 130 points followed by Arkansas in 16th with 119 points. 
Rounding out the first 20 were Pittsburgh, Brigham Young, Penn State and UCLA. 







