

VOL. XXIII NO 50 MONDAY , NOVEMBER 12, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
/

Rally honors vets, protests gulf war 
By PETER AMEND struggle with the experience," 
News Writer Moreno said. 
Moreno said that war exploits 
the poor and ethnic minorities 
A rally to honor veterans and in the United States. "The one's 
spPak out against the imminent who have the least to gain are 
threat of war in the Middle East the one's who go to war," he 
oeeurr1!d Sunday at Zion United said. 
Church in South Bend. Moreno explained that being 
Tlw rally was sponsored by a 'good citizen' does not mean 
the Miehiana Peace and Justice doing everything the govern­
Coalition, an amalgamation of ment tells us to do without 
local activist groups that thinking first. "When I don't 
formed in August as a response like what they're doing, I try to 
to the build up of U.S. military change what they're doing," he 
support in tlw Middle East. said. "We need to know the his­
At thl! entrance to the· rally, tory behind the situation. It is 
.lluwt Meissner, an Nl> student. an issue of economics ... Money 
asked people to sign a petition is the bottom line." 
that opposns an offensive strike 
by thn United States. "We have Ellyn Stecker, a women's 
already gathered about 700 rights activist, said "Let us re­signatures around campus and member the women who did General A.M. Gray, commandant of the Marine Corps (right) presents a flag to Marine Maj. Robin Higginshope to send the first batch out their part in the war." She ex­during funeral services in Quantico, Va., Thursday for Marine Col. William Richard Higgins. Col. Higgins dis­to Washington on Tuesday," she plained how women had to appeared in February of 1988 in Lebanon and is believed to have been killed while in captivity. (Story left) 
said. Tlw petition is available fulfill the economic responsibil­for signing at the entrances of ities in the United States while without hurting the Iraqi •We support a negotiated set­•We support self-determina­thn llesburgh Library. the men fought overseas. 
people. "All we want is peace tlement by the U.N. and the tion of all peoples in the region. 
lluddln, and both dining halls. Khalil Azar, a member of the by a peaceful solution," he said. Arab countries with no precon­•We strongly urge a call-up of The rally commenced with a Arab-American Association. 
Peter Smith, a professor of ditions. conflict resolution experts to woman singing anti-war songs stressed that the United States 
mathematics and computer •We demand the withdrawal immediately work with our
of the Vintnam era and children military presence is inappro­science at Saint Mary's College, of U.S. troops in favor of a U.N. president. Congress. and thecarrying signs with messages of priate. "Washington has no is a member of the steering peace keeping mission. media to look for alternatives to 
peace. Vaugn Moreno. a business in the Gulf to start 
committee that presented an •We demand the development the present attempted militaryViHtnum veteran, shared his with." he said. 
eight-point plan as a solution to of a national alternative energy solution.
experience of war to the audi­the Middle East crisis. The plan policy, emphasizing energy effi­•We are outraged and sad­ence. "HOO,OOO vets suffered Azar said he opposed Saddam states: ciency. dened at the enormous cost inpost-dramatic syndrome ...I was Hussein's occupation of Kuwait; • We demand that the U.S. •We condemn the implicit dollars. energy and lives of this onn of those ... Many others still yet. a solution can be reached make no first strike. racism and sexism in the war. military deployment. 
Gorbachev, Yeltsin meet to discuss economic reforms 
MOSCOW (API -Mikhail meeting since an attempt at enough. Among the questions dis­tion. 
c;orbachev and rival Boris reconciliation over economic After their private meeting, cussed were the Russian repub­On Nov. 1, Russia began its 
Yeltsin met Sunday in the reform broke down in late Gorbachev and Yeltsin were lic's role in possible radical own 500-day plan for convert­
Kremlin, and one report said summer. joined by Soviet Prime Minister economic reforms and "urgent ing to a free market economy, 
they diseussnd emergency mea­The earlier failed attempt at Nikolai Ryzhkov and two offi­measures" to provide food and conflicting with a more cautious 
sures to fHed the Soviet people reconciliation over economic­cials from the Russian republic, consumer goods, lnterfax said. plan endorsed by Gorbachev 
and reform their crumbling policies put Yeltsin's Russian Vice President Ruslan Khasbu­and approved by the national 
economy. republic on a collision course latov and Prime Minister Ivan The official Tass news agency, legislature. 
c;orbaehev. the Soviet presi­with the central Soviet govern­Silaev, Interfax said. also without quoting sources, The republic's legislature also 
dent, .and Yeltsin, the president ment. said the leaders discussed has said that it, and not the 
of the Russian republic, met The conversation between "current problems," the central government, has the 
one-on-one for two hours. the The popular Yeltsin, whom Gorbachev and Yeltsin was transition to a market economy right to control Russia's con­
independent Interfax news Gorbachev ousted from the conducted in a "businesslike, and the union treaty-Gor­siderable natural resources of 
agnncy reported. Communist Party Politburo in principled atmosphere," Inter­bachev's plan for holding the oil, coal and diamonds. Russia 
1986, has criticized the Soviet fax said, without quoting any splintering 15 Soviet republics comprises about two-thirds of 
It was their first substantive leader for not reforming fast sources. together as a loose confedera-the Soviet Union. 
AP Photo 

ROTC to be discussed in series of speeches this week
Students can get Thanksgiving meal 
By MONICA YANT each other. The program extends 
Associate News Edito Also on Thanksgiving Day, beyond the Thanksgiving Day 
students can make free phone dinner. Students can watch 
Student.<; staying on campus calls anywhere in the United the USC game on a 15-foot 
for Thanksgiving can eat a States from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at screen in Washington Hall, 
holiday dinnAr with an the Badin Phone Bank, courtesy Jochum said. A Thanksgiving 
adopted Notre Dame family, ofCTI. · Mass will be given at Sacred 
rourtflsy of the Holiday Host Hegistration for the Holiday Heart on Sunday. 
program. Host program will be Wed. Nov. "The Holiday Host program 
The program matehes both 14 to Fri. Nov. 16 in the dining is a good time to get a little 
undergraduate and graduate halls. "We encourage everyone bit of family atmosphere 
students with families of fac­to sign up early, to get their when you can't be with your 
ulty, staff, or local alumni for families matched," Jochum own family," said Brian 
Thanksgiving Day dinner. said. Delphey, Student Government 
"It's a great way to overcome However, if students find out alumni relations 
thtl holiday blues if you're after the registration deadline commissioner. 
staying in South Bend," that they will be on campus for This is the second year for 
aecording to Patty Jochum, Thanksgiving, they won't be the Holiday Host program. 
Chairperson of the program. turned away by the Holiday Last year over 300 students 
Groups of two or more stu­Host program. "Exceptions can and 150 families dents will bB invited to join be made," she said. participated. Organizers are these families so they "don't Students may request a par­expecting from 350-400 feel dumb for being the only ticular professor or faculty students this year, according stranger at Thanksgiving din­member if they are participat­ner," she said. Students may ing in the program, Jochum request to be matched with said. see HOSTS I page 7 
By L.PETER YOB 
Assitant News Editor 
The merits of ROTC programs at Notre Dame will be the topic of a three-day series of speeches this week sponsored by student government. 
"Yearly. the issue of ROTC on a Catholic campus is brought up," said Jen Salmon. student government executive coordinator of intellectual life. The series is important because this issue "touches a lot of lives on campus." she said. "People on both sides are very vocal." 
Tuesday night Coleman Mc­Carthy will begin the series with a speech on non-violence and ROTC programs. 
"He agreed to speak on both issues," said Jay Caponigro, a student who has been in con­tact with McCarthy. 
Caponigro said that McCarthy has been traveling around speaking on non-violence. Mc­Carthy has an "audio-video presentation that he will show," said Caponigro, followed by his speech which will address ROTC programs. 
McCarthy is a syndicated columnist whose work has ap­peared in Reader's Digest, the New Yorker and the National Catholic Reporter. He has been a member.11f the editorial page staff for the Washington Post. 
McCarthy is a graduate of Spring Hill College in Mobile, Ala. His son graduated from ND last May. 
McCarthy's presentation will 
see ROTC I page 4 


Monday, November 12, 1990

page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE CoLUMN 



Modern media is saturated with smiles 
Have you ever no-____ 
ticed that even meteo­rologists have a hard time sticking to the weather anymore? Certainly their fore­casts are filled with premonitions of storms and sunshine, 


but it is often the case Becky Pichler 
that they fill air space with material fluffier Asst. Viewpoint Editor than cirrus clouds. However, rather than wafting towards tht. troposphere, this phenomenon compounds quickly, saturating our airwaves. Neither a low-or .high-pressure front, this system might be labelled the talk show host front. Clearly, the problem is time. With too much of it on their hands, these announc­ers-from all walks of media life-are left looking at each other after their schtick is up. They know that we are looking at them, and before any of us can become too em­harassed, they clog the air waves with something, anything. What follows next is laughter. Forced laughter. The kind that is pushed from a tightened abdominal cavity in puffs of disjointed sound. Hardly reso­nant, it hangs heavy, leaving the sender with a nodding noggin sporting a contorted and constipated countenance. Readily contagious, this condition spreads quickly to its on-screen receiver. Whether a fellow reporter on local news, a colleague on a morning program or a special guest on an afternoon talk show, this unassuming individual becomes partner to the nonsensi­cal crime. The spotlight is on this poor soul, the zoom lense fixed, while the instigator sits frantic, frozen in smile, hoping desparately that they themselves did not just have the last laugh. Part out of propriety, part out of duty, mostly out of idiocy, this person on 
the spot completes the scenario with recip­rocated laughter and a contorted and con­fused face. 
It is bad enough when this incredulous ex­change occurs right before a commercial can save the day. However, all too often the muppets of media, usually talk show hosts, cushion their soft philosophy with quik-stop laughter at regular intervals during the hour. 
Lest topics like "Women who love too much," or "In-laws who visit too much," or "Siblings who fight too much," become too heavy for those watching others air out their lives on national television, the media­tor thus steps in and convulses over his/her own joke. 
In the 18th century if Emperor Josef II yawned once during an opera, its stage life was immediately reduced to a week. Two yawns and the opera closed the night of its debut. Perhaps the same rules should apply for the laughing stock of American televi­sion. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Ihe Obser:ver-=­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219}-239-7471 
Today's  Staff:  
News  Systems  Photography 
Brad Galko  Paul Froning  Andrew McCloskey  
Christine Stephan  Fritz Valsaint  
Circulation  
Accent  Ad  Design  Bill O'Roukrke  
Shonda Wilson  Joy Harris  Matt Novak  
Paul Pearson  Tony Paganelli  
Cristina Ortiz Sports Chris Cooney  Anita Covelli Lisa Gunsorek Business  Production Michelle Wood Beth Peterson  
Rene Ferran  Christine Walsh  
Colleen Gannon  
Jay Colucci  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishe.d Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
r-------------.------------------------­
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 12. Lines show high temperatures. 
50  40  
Yesterday's  high: 44  
Yesterday's  low: 26  
Nation's  high:  94  

(Monrovia, Calif.} Nation's low: 5 (Alamosa, Colo} 
Forecast: Partly sunny and cool today with highs in the mid 40s.Tonight, cloody and cooler. To­morrow, partly cloudy with lows in the low 30s and highs in the upper 40s. 

Pressure
®© ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS 
RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
'-----------------------------------------· 
. OF INTEREST 
Tn~en~ 24-Hour Run to benefit Special C.S.C. Mexico Project: There will be a lun-Olympics will be held from 3:00 p.m: Nov. 16 until 3:00 cheon in the Rotary Room at Saint Mary's from 12:00 to p.m., Nov. 1~. Please stop by the Fieldhouse Mall and 1:00 p.m. on Tuesday, Nov. 13, that will inform students make a donatiOn of your spare change. of this summer service project. An informational meeting 
Meeting in the C.S.C. on Tuesday, Nov. 13 at will be bel~ on Tuesday, Nov. 13, at 7:00p.m. in the Cen­
6:00 nm for all those interested in continuing education, u l" for ~ocial Concerns. dialogue and action concerning the escalating mobiliza-Jumors may turn in pictures from Nov. 12-16 to tion for war in the Middle East. the Student Activities Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune, for Ju­
Habl.tat for HumanJ·t . h ld" . nior Parents Weekend. Note: No alcohol allowed in pic­
£Y IS o mg an orgamza-tures. tional.mee~ing .tonight for 2nd semester. All those inter-Auditions for Lab Scene Directing Class Fi­ested m bemg mvolved should attend, C.S.C. Coffeehouse nals will be held M d N 12 4·30 t · h
on ay, ov. . o 6..30 p.rn m t e t 7 30 If b I t I t I II P I
a : pm. you can a sou e Y no go, P ease ca au a Lab Theatre in Washington H· II F -t I·. · '11
Thompson at 237-0788. . a · our one ac Pays WI
be cast. No preparation necessary. 
In a speech marking the WORLD 72nd anniversary of the rebirth of Poland, Prime Minister Tadeusz Ma­

Government troops killed 19 Tamil rebels andzowiecki said Sunday in Warsaw that one soldier died in at least four battles around Sri Lanka,Poles should "rise beyond divisions" to military officials said Sunday. There was no word on thecontinue their unprecedented demo­reported skirmishes from the rebels, who have waged acratic reforms. On Nov. 11, 1918, the seven-year fight against the Sinhalese-dominated gov­Polish Republic was proclaimed fol­ernment for an autonomous homeland. The governmentlowing 123 years of 
claim could not be independently confirmed. The officials, who cannot be identified under briefing rules, said troops partition among the Russian, German and Austrians em­destroyed many underground bunkers Saturday, killing pires. Sunday marked the first time the date had been ob­nine militants. Also, one soldier was killed and five wereserved as an official holiday since World War II. In the injured in fighting near Trincomalee, a port city 150 mile country's first popular presidential elections Nov. 25 Ma­northeast of Colombo. 
zowiecki is pitted against Solidarity leader Lech W~lesa his former ally. ' 
NATIONAL NASA on Sunday prepared for the launch of the space shuttle Atlantis from Cape Canaveral, Fla. which is Relatives of American troops in the Per­to carry a spy satellite into orbit after being grounded for sian Gulf set up a new family support group in New York months by fuel leaks. The countdown was to begin at on Sunday that opposes a U.S. military offensive there. 
10:30 p.m. EST. Atlantis is scheduled to lift off Thursday The Military Families Support Network was organized by sometime between 6:30 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. EST. The the author of an angry, open letter to President Bush that precise time will not be announced until nine minutes be­was published in The New York Times. Alex Molnar, the fore launch because of the classified nature of the mili­father of a Marine in Saudi Arabia, says the group has tary mission. Atlantis' five astronauts will deploy the 2,500 members and chapters in eight states. Molnar's satellite, which published reports say will spy on Iraq. It letter to the president, published Aug. 23, expressed con­is believed to be a photographic imaging or an eaves­cerns and fears about the military buildup in the Persian dropping spacecraft. Gulf after Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait. 
INDIANA 

Northern Indiana Public Service Co. is appealing a federal order that has given another Indiana utility blanket approval to make long-term, bulk electricity sales at market-based rates. NIPSCO said it is appealing a Federal En­ergy Regulatory Commission ruling last June that allowed PSI Energy Co. to sell up to 450 megawatts of power across state lines at long­
NYSE Index

term, market rates. As a tradeoff, PSI agreed to 
171.17 + 3.03

open up its transmission grid to other power generators. In the appeal filed Friday in the U.S. 
S&P Composite 
313.74 11 6.13

Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, 
Dow Jones Industrials 

NIPSCO said it did not object to the market-based 
2,488.61 • 44.80

rates but to the open access provided in the order. 
American Heart,/a
Precious Metals 
Association ~ 
Gold +$2.60 to $386.30/oz. 
Silver +4.0¢ to $4.237/oz. 
This space prov1ded as a public service. 



CAMPUS ~ 
BIBLE STUDY INVITES 

in the Conference Room of Campus Ministry Badin Hall 
For additional information, call Fr. AI D'Aionzo, CSC, Director B.Y.O.B. 239-6633 or 239-5955 (Bring Your Own Bible) 
ALL GRADUATE STUDENTS, UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS, INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS and MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME FAMILY 
to Join us every Tuesday night at 7:00p.m. for an hour of Ecumenical Bible Study 
page 3 




Lab offers multimedia 
•

for educational uses I I 
By ANGEL FARAH News Writer 
The interaction of students lftld computers to improve the learning process in the class­room has been made possible by the creation of a Multimedia Lab in the University Comput­ing Center. 
Multimedia is the variety of ways information is portrayed to a student, such as text, graphics, audio, video, and an­imation. "The Multimedia Lab was set up to demonstrate the interactive media products and technology that are being used today and will be used in the future, " said Tony Van Hoof, the director and organizer of · the Multimedia Lab. 
Van Hoof hopes to see widespread use of this media in Notre Dame classrooms in the near future. 
The advantages of such tech­nology are many. Those stu­dents who are visual learners may now have the same ability to learn as those who are a~.JdiO learners and who may have previously had an advantage in a lecture-based class. 
Van Hoof points out that, "the key point of multimedia for education is its element of interactivity, allowing students to design a learning program tailored to their needs and in­terests." This way students can learn at their own individ­ual pace rather than at the pace of a class of thirty others. 
This idea of interactivity reinforces the principle that the human mind works by associa­tion. As stated by Van Hoof, "Multimedia is fashioning a world of computing that works the way people think." 
"In cooperation with Educa­tional Media, the Multimedia Lab is exploring the use of the campus fiberoptic network for the distributed use of video. Experiments planned include the down-linking of satellite video to be sent over the cam­pus fiber to a Macintosh com­puter where it will be displayed in a window using video cap­ture technology," explained Van Hoof. This will allow the pro­fessor the advantage of numer­ous visual aids and references at the push of a button. 
Van Hoof said that "the Mul­timedia Lab is designed to as­sist faculty with exploring the use of Multimedia technology in the curriculum... This technol­ogy is going to change the way we educate." 
American Heart ft 
Association ~ 

·~l!Pl'~~·)!lrK~~,.,;(::..C~~JIE~~-~ 
You are Cordially Invited ~ to a Company Presentation I
I I 
-by i 
-~
I I
Eli Lilly and Company 
. -I
I ~
"Financial Career Opportunities and Challenges in a World-Class Life Sciences Company" j 
R 
I~ 
-


Thursday, November 15, 1990 i~
I• 



~~. LaF~~tt~~eD;t~:e~~~nter • ~· ~ . 
"· 5:00 pm -7:00 pm I 
, ­
I 
Reception following presentation M 
I I
I Opl'n to students majoring in: I·I F'inance, Accountancy, and Economics 
Lw..---)III!K~XK!(~)IIQC~~::.-<~)Im{,.:Z:l!W(c:.K~~'-:41';; :>aii'X)aD::J 



CLUB COLUMN 
NOVEMBER 12-16,1990 
BACCHUS will meet on Thursday, Nov.15 at 7:00 p.m. in the Dooley Room. Any interested student is welcome to attend. AIESEC will hold an organizational meeting Thurs., Nov. 15 at 
8:00p.m. in room 124 Hayes-Healy. All students are welcome. 
Entries for the club column are due Thursday, 5:00 p.m. in the Club Room, room 207 LaFortune. All clubs are reminded to check their mailboxes outside the 
Club Room, room 207 LaFortune, periodically. 
There are stillS vacancies to check their mailboxes outside the Club Room, room 207 LaFortune, periodically. The Water Polo Club will have a mandatory practice on 
Tuesday night at Rolf's to discuss the weekend activites. A service of The Observer and the Club Coordination Council. 

SPEND AN EVENING WITH US FOR THE ULTIMATE IN FINE DINING AND ENTERTAINMENT 
lunch 11-2 pm Mon-Fri dinner 5-9 pm Mon-Thurs 5-10 pm Fri & Sat 
BANQUET & RECEPTION ROOMS AVAILABLE 
1345 N. Ironwood Drive, South Bend 
289-P 0 L 0 

Monday, November 12, 1990
page 4 The Observer 

At a City Hall news conference, Thursday, New York Mayor David Dinkins (left) with Deputy Mayor Nor­man Steisel, announces $338 million in cutbacks, including a reduction of 5,500 city jobs this fiscal year. 

Experts consider ruling on tapes 'censorship' 
ATLANTA (AP) -A federal appeals court ruling barring Cable News Network from tele­vising tapes of Manuel Nor­iega's telephone conversations with his lawyers was a shocking show of censorship, said constitutional law experts Sun­day. 
The Atlanta-based network, which has pledged to appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, said it stopped televising the tapes on Saturday morning. 
Noriega's attorneys, arguing that the broadcasts would en­danger Noriega's right to a fair trial on drug-trafficking charges, asked a judge Satur­day to fine CNN $300,000 for each time it aired the tapes. 
George Rahdert, a lawyer at the Poynter Institute of Media Studies, characterized Satur­day's appeals court ruling as "absolutely an astonishing il­lustration of censorship." 
constitutional lawyer who served as co-counsel for The New York Times in the Pen­tagon Papers case, said the outcome of a CNN appeal to the 
U.S. Supreme Court wuld be a landmark decision because rules involving prior restraint have been very clear through the years. 
"We've almost totally banned prior restraint," Abrams said. "If the Supreme Court were to uphold the prior restraint order on CNN, this would be the first time in our country's history that any such court order had been affirmed py the court." 
In the 1971 Pentagon Papers case, the U.S. Supreme Court said the government could not bar publication of classified documents about U.S. involve­ment in Vietnam. The Times appealed rather than defy a lower court order. 
Teen age heart-liver recipient dies at 13 
PITTSBURGH (AP) Stormie Jones, the world's first heart-liver transplant recipient, died Sunday at age 13 after a six-year struggle that inspired well-wishers across the country. 
The Texas teenager wa,s flown to Pittsburgh's Children's Hospital from Dallas late Saturday after she complained of flu-like symptoms. 
At the hospital, Stormie 



ROTC 
continued from page 1 

be held at 7 p.m. in the Engi­neering Auditorium. 
On Wednesday night, Father Oliver Williams will conduct a critique of McCarthy's speech. 
While McCarthy is expected to speak against ROTC programs, Williams will take the opposite position. 
Williams is· speaking on the night following McCarthy be­cause, "a debate probably wouldn't fit into his (McCarthy's) presentation," Caponigro said. 
Williams speech will begin at 8 p.m. at the Hayes-Healy Cen­ter. 
On Thursday, there will be an informal discussion featuring Father Joe Ross, Alan Dowty, NO professor of Government and Iiiternational Studies, as 


New York $115  Frankfurt  $246  
London  250  Zurich  280  
Paris  270  

Schec1uled camers1 Book anyt1me1 Fares 1,2 RT tram Chtcago. Some re­S\rtCIIons apply On-the-spot ra1l p~sses lnll Student I D card~ yout11 hostel passP.s work and study pro 



COUKitfiil 
1153 N Dearborn St Ch1cago IL 60610 
312·951·0585 

......................... 
deteriorated throughout the morning and died at 9:52 a.m., said Dr. Jorge Reyes, a staff physician. 
"She deserved more," said Teresa Millikan, a family friend who spearheaded efforts to raise funds for Stormie's hospital expenses. "She was God's walking angel. She touched so many people's hearts." 
Within hours of her arrival at the hospital, Stormie's 
well as NO students Patrick Murphy and Mary Sue Twohy. They will focus their talk on the views held by McCarthy and Williams. 
This discussion will be held at 7 p.m. in the CSC Multi-purpose room. 
American Heart 
•
Association 

·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
AT LAST 
NOW FOR THE FIRST PROTECTION FOR THE PUBLIC ... 
(At a remarkable low price) This product is called Curb. Curb is a self-defense device that will 
incapacitate one or several attackers within 5 seconds. Curb's effective 15 foot range will allow 
you to get to them before they get to you. The effect is not permanent and it will dissapate within 
15 to 20 minutes, giving you time to get away and get help. Curb is the safest and most effective 
personal tear gas available anywhere. Curb is the most potent of any tear gas weapon, 1/1 0 % 
()
more potent than MACE. 
r 
WHEN YOU NEED IT, CURB IS WORTH ANY PRICE ""C 
l> 

and C-60 models. 4.) Purchase Agreement: I certify I am an adult of at least 18. 

Totals 
60 Home /Auto C-20 PockeV Purse 
1sures 6" x 1 1/2" Measures 4 3/4" x 1" 
CLOSSON'S MARKETING CO. 
.. lolds 60 shots Holds 20 shots PHONE (219) 289-8765 
blood pressure dropped, Reyes said. She became lethargic, then suffered a heart attack, he said. Doctors tried for more than an hour to resuscitate her. 
"She presented acute respiratory distress and had a cardiac arrest," Reyes told reporters. 
"Things happened with in­credible speed," said hospital spokeswoman Lynn McMahon. 
Rahdert, who represents sev­eral newspapers, said CNN was "playing with blasting caps" by defying a Miami judge's order against airing the tapes. 
"It's rare in general that a news organization of any kind-broadcast, cable or print-would do such a thing," he said. "It really falls into the category of civil disobedience." 
Floyd Abrams, a New York 
~ 
The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Saturday upheld an injunction barring CNN from broadcasting the tapes between Panama's fallen leader and his lawyers. 
The court called on CNN to produce the seven tapes in U.S. District Court in Miami so the court could decide whether the broadcasts would endanger Noriega's right to a fair trial. 
r 
0
INSTRUCTIONS z 
G)
1.) Fill out shipping instructions and use your street address for U.P.S. delivery. Your order will be shipped within 48 hours or less. 
0 0
2.) Cost for C-20 Tear gas unit is $9.50 each. Cost for C-20 Holster/ 
:::j
Key ring is $6.29 each. Cost for C-60 Tear gas unit is $11.50 each. 
m C-20 Holster/ Key ring sold separately. c 
3.) Make payments to :CLOSSON'S MARKETING CO. Cashiers c 
z
check, money order, or by check (personal checks must clear 
m before shipping). Add $2.50 for insurance and shipping on C-20 
(PLEASE PRINT) Name___________________
1
St. Address_______
1
City_________
1 
State & Zip 
P.O. BOX 11477 SOUTH BEND, IN. 46634 
Monday, November12, 1990 
The Observer 



Peacefulness of women, men discussed 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI News Writer 
All sides of the question "Are women more peaceful than men?" were addressed in alec­ture Friday by Kathleen Weigert, Concurrent Associate Professor for American Studies. 
Weigert first argued that women are indeed more peace­ful than men using historical, biological and sociological ex­amples. "We (women] have dif­ferent chromosomes, hormones and anatomies. Given these re­alities, men are more competi­tive, more aggressive, more assertive, and more indepen­dent. Women are more emo­tional, more nurturing. more caring, more loving, and more 
Making peace 

compassionate." 
Weigert was quick to point out that these traits are stereo­typical and are not always ac­curate. She also noted that his­torically, few women are asso­ciated with war. Another ar­gument raised by Weigert was that, in the animal kingdom, males are typically the aggres­sor. 
Weigert then argued for the proposition that women are more aggressive than men. Those who feel this way, ac­cording to Weigert, argue that "what we really need is equality between the sexes." 
She added that "the argu­ment here is really a socializa­tion one." Feminists are quick to note that there are women in combat but it is socialization that restricts the woman's role by keeping her in the home. 
Weigert lastly addressed the belief that there is nothing wrong with men being more aggressive than women, as long as no barriers exist to inhibit women's potential accomplish­ments. "What we need to do is break the barriers so that each of us can respond to our own needs, our own talents." 
Prior to leaving the floor open to discussion, Weigert left the listeners with the idea that, while there is no corre-ct an­swer to the question, "Are women more peaceful than men?" the question arises from the current inequality of the sexes. 
AP Photo 


In a spontaneous and rare moment of accord between the Soviet Union's most popular politicians, ri­vals Boris Yeltsin (left) and Mikhail Gorbachev shake hands Tuesday at a Kremlin ceremony on the 73rd anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution. They will meet on Sunday, in hopes of further union. 
The DePaul University Professional Master of Science in Accountancy Program 
1991 Liberal Arts and Sciences Graduates: 
aspecial announcement concerning careers in business speczfically for Liberal Arts and Sciences students. 
The School of Accountancy of DePaul University, Chicago, Illinois, a 75-year leader in innovative accounting education, offers to selected graduates of prestigious liberal arts and sciences programs the Professional Master of Science in Accountancy. This highly competitive program is offered in conjunction with the nation's leading accounting firms and is restricted to students sponsored by the participating firms. 
The PMSA program begins in June 1991. Recruiting for the program is currently in progress. 
Ask About Our "WINTERVIEWS" Recruiting Event December 27, 1990 in Chicago 
The 15-month program entails: 
• 
immediate (June 1991) employment in the Chicago office of asponsoring accounting firm. 

• 
an accelerated course of study in business and accounting at Chicago's DePaul University. 


Successful completion of the DePaul PMSA program results in: 
• 
Amaster of science in accountancy degree from the Graduate School of Business of DePaul University 

• 
Full-time business and accounting experience with amajor accounting firm 

• 
Eligibility to sit for the C.P.A. examination in Illinois 

• 
Broad career opportunities and advancement in professional accounting with your sponsoring firm. 


DEPAUL 


UNIVERSITY 
For more information on the PMSA program, contact your placement office or Mr. Terry A. Baker, Coordinator, School of Accountancy, DePaul University, 25 E. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, Illinois 60604, (312) 362-8770. 
page 5 

Colombian guerrilla attack leaves forty dead 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) ­Leftist guerrillas launched their biggest offensive of the year and about 40 people were killed in the fighting, according to an official statement Sunday. 
The army and police drove back 1 ,000 members of two guerrilla groups who together attacked the adjacent towns of Taraza and Caceres in northern Colombia Saturday, the statement said. 
A leading newspaper, meanwhile, on Sunday urged the government to resume its crackdown on drug barrons, while a second major daily of­fered its pages to let cocaine kingpins publish their views. 
In Taraza, 250 miles north of Bogota, 500 rebels attacked the army base and the police sta_tion with mortar and automatic weapon fire. 
Nine soldiers and 16 guerrillas died in the five­hour battle, which lasted until the rebels were driven back into the mountains, said the statement from the Antioquia state governor's office. Eight soldiers were wounded, it said. 
Rebels also attacked the town of Caceres, killing a police officer, destroying the municipal • government building, and damaging the police station. 
Army troops and helicopters pursued the retreating guerrillas, carrying more than 10 dead .. and several wounded with them into the mountains late Saturday, according to the statement. 

Among those killed in Saturday's battle was the commander of Taraza's army base, Lt. Col. Jaime Farjardo, who fought alongside his men to stop the guerrilla's advance. 
Farjardo is one of the most senior army officials killed in 30 years of fighting between the military and the rebels. He was buried Sunday in Bogota with military honors. 
Authorities said Saturday's attacks were carried out by the country's two active guerrilla groups -the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, and the National Liberation Army. 
Late Saturday, four rebels were killed in another' battle between the army and the Liberation Army, according to a Defense Ministry statement. 
The guerrilla offensive was the bloodiest in recent months. It came days after the two guerrilla groups offered to initiate peace talks with the government and released 22 police hostages as a goodwill gesture. 
President Cesar Gaviria has conditioned such talks on guerrillas calling a unilateral cease-fire. The rebels maintain that the cease-lire should be bilateral. 
In a statement released Sunday, the administration said "the possibility of peace talks is being driven farther into the distance" by the escalating rebel attacks. 
Happy 21st Joe Lacher 
Were you calling about admission to ND way back then? 

Love, Mom and Dad. 



Elegant Passage is back 
100°/o -wool, handn1ade sw-eaters 
MC, Visa, Check accepted Sorin Room, l.aFortune 
Nov. 12-17 

AP Photo
No place like home 
African National Congress leader Nelson Mandala holds his grandchild at Jan Smuts airport, Friday on his return from Asia and France where he had been raising funds for the ANC. 
Report criticizes U.S. 


educational 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Tradi­tional methods of training teachers, testing students and selecting textbooks are so flawed they may derail creative efforts to improve learning, a report said Sunday. 
Lynne V. Cheney, chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, used a mandated congressional report to harshly criticize basic U.S. educational practices. 
Cheney called the practices "tyrannical machines," a phrase coined by philosopher William James to describe methods that become both counterproductive and resistant 


practices 

to change once established on a large scale. . 
The report cited the Scholas­tic Aptitude Test as "an almost classic example" of a "tyrannical machine." 
Cheney also attacked school textbook selection committees that choose material without reading them, coilege education programs in which teachers spend little time studying what they eventually will teach and university systems that value research more than teaching. 
"Tyrannical machines domi­nate American education and have contributed to its fail­ures," said Cheney in the re­port. 
Monday, November 12, 1990
The Observer 


Two Israeli-po!ice officials replaced 
JERUSALEM (AP) -1\vo top police officials were replaced in a shakeup stemming from last month's Temple Mount killings, officials said Sunday. 
The Cabinet, meanwhile, dis­
cussed a compromise move to 
allay international criticism of 
Israel over the Oct. 8 Temple 
Mount shootings, in which 20 
Arabs were killed by police 
gunfire. 

Also Sunday, authorities an­nounced 2,400 more Palestini­ans would be banned from en­tering Israel for security rea­-sons, and an Israeli soldier was shot and wounded in the West 
Bank. 

In the· police shakeup, Jerusalem police chief Aryeh 
Attention please! 

Bibi and Rachamim Comfort,-"" thus removing Bibi. 
commander of the southern police district which includes Jerusalem, were reassigned. 
, 

Both were strongly criticized in a government report on the Temple Mount killings. The re­port, compiled by a three-mem­ber investigating team, con­doned the use of live fire on stone throwers and said Pales­tinians started the riot, but criticized police for failing to anticipate the violence. 
In the wake of the report, Po­lice Minister Roni Milo decided to create a new police district in Jerusalem. Chaim Albaldes, currently head of the central police district, will become commander of the new district, 
Comfort was replaced by Rafi Peled, currently chief of the Na­tional Police intelligence de­partment. 
The report had criticized both Comfort and Bibi for bad judgment and mistaken assessment of intelligence data in the Temple Mount incident. 
Israel radio reported that Comfort and Peled will work together for several months, and then Comfort would retire early. 
Bibi's name was not included in the list of new appointments. The radio said he was expected to be moved to another post which would not entail a pro­motion in rank. 
AP Photo 

Panamanian President Gillermo Endara is surrounded by bodyguards as he speaks to more than 300 protesting journalists in front of the Presidential Palace in Panama City Thursday. The journalists were demonstrating to demand the repeal of slander and libel laws dating from the time of the Noriega regime. 

The University of Notre Dame Warmly Welcomes 




Michael P. Esposito, Jr. 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE 
Chase Manhattan Bank 
AND ALUMNUS OF 

The University Of Notre Dame 
Mr. Esposito is hosting a reception on ~ovember 14, at the 
University Club, Upper Level, from 7 to 9 p.m., and warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities in finance at Chase. 

lfl]===-CHASE
lt,i~-II!IJI I~~~~~~el~~~hattan Bank, N.• 
--::::~=' New York, New York 10081 
Monday, November 12, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
China won't veto U.N. use of force resolution 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (APJ ­China's foreign minister arrived in Baghdad on Sunday carrying bad news for Saddam Hussein: China will not block the U.N. Security Council from authoriz­ing the use of force to drive 
Iraq out of Kuwait,  a Chinese  
diplomat said.  
Such  a  measure  has been  

drafted by the United States, diplomats and U.S. ollicials said last WIH~k. but had not yet been circulated among the other permanent members of the Security Council. 
Iraq had reportedly pinned its veto hopes on China. 
Mnanwhile, Iraq said Sunday it would attnnd a proposed Arab summit meeting if it was consulted on the agenda, timing and location and if the agenda included the Arab-Israeli con­flict. • 
"Thn proposed summit should not bn part of efforts to preparn thn political theater as a cover for American aggression against Iraq and the Arab nation," said an Iraqi statement rnad on state television. 
The offer came in response to an appeal by Morocco's King Hassan II, who urged an ex­traordinary Arab summit on the gulf crisis. He said such a mm~ting would be a "new and last chance" for a peaceful so­lution. 
In a separate interview broadcast Sunday in London, Saddam said he did not think the world was united against him. 
The major powers and "a number of countries" are against Iraq, "but to say that tlw world is unifind against Iraq is indeed not a correct thing to 

Hosts 
continued from page 1 
to Dnlphey. 
Thn lloliday !lost Program is also available at Easter and is co-sponsored by the Student Alumni Helations Group and Student Government. 
Poster Signed & No (18"x24'') $23.75 shipped T·Shirt $19.50 shipped Long-Sleeved T·Shirt $25.00 Shipped 
CA ~nt• add&1t:.%S.tl•• Ta• 


say," Saddam said on Independent Television News, which interviewed him Saturday night in Baghdad. 
"This is not just our impres­sion," he added. "In the state­ments of the U.S. and Britain, 
. they themselves are voicing their concern that the unity­so-called unity against Iraq-is perhaps... suffering from a split." "The U.S. and Britain pushed the (U.N.) Security Council into adopting hastily taken resolu­tions against Iraq and once... countries began to realize or gauge things in accordance with the historical back­ground," they began to change their attitudes, he said. Some recent reports have said the U.S. government differs with some allies-among them China, France and the Soviet Union-on a timetable for any military action to oust Saddam from Kuwait. 
.. 

fouch a life. Give to the United Way.
• 
• 


HERE'S WHY THE SMART MONEY AT UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME IS GOING WITH TIAA-CREF AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDED ON IT. 
• 
.· 
AP Photo 

Army PFC Wayne Gregory of Franklin, KY., watches through binoculars on Tuesday as PFC Gerald Wayball of Jackson, Mich., fires an M-60 machine gun during trench warfare training in the Saudi desert. They are members of the Army's 82nd Airborne 1st Battalion, SOSth Paratroop Brigade from Fort Bragg, NC. 
B 
ecause it does. Smart investors know that your future depends on how well your retirement system performs. TIAA-CREF has been the premier retirement system for people in education and research for over 70 years. We have enabled over 200,000 people like you to enjoy a comfortable retirement. And over I,000,000 more are now planning for the future with TIAA-CREF. 
SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY, GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR 
RETIREMENT SAVINGS. Security-so the resources are there when it is time to retire. Growth-so you'll have enough income for the kind of retirement you want. And diversity-to help protect you against market volatility and to let you benefit from several types of investments. 
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT YOU GET 
WITH TIAA-CREF. TIAA offers you the safety of a traditional annuity that guarantees your principal plus a specified rate of interest, and provides for additional growth through dividends. CREF's 
variable annuity offers opportunities 
for growth through four different 
investment accounts, each managed 
with the long-term perspective essen­
tial to sound retirement planning: 
The CREF Stock Account 

The CREF Money Market Account 
The CREF Bond Market Account 
The CREF Social Choice Account 
CALL 1-800-842-2776 ID FIND OUT MORE Our experienced retirement counselors 
will be happy to answer your questions and tell you more about retirement annuities from TIAA-CREF. 
Experience. Performance. Strength. Your future is protected by the largest private retirement system in the world. We have done so well, for so many, for so long, that we currently manage some $85 billion in assets. 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it.sm 

For more complete intbrmation, including charges and expenses, call I 800 84.2-2733, ext 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 
• 
------------------~------~-------~~ 
page 8 The Observer Monday, November 12, 1990 
Student Government Presents . ... 
APublic Forum On Contemporary Issues 
''ROTC at a ' Catholic University?" 
• 
• 

NO!· YES! Coleman McCarthy Rev. Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C. 
Columnist of the Washington Post Associate Provost at Notre Dame. Associate Professor of Management 
7:00pm B.·OOpm Tuesday, November 13, 1990 Wednesday, November 14, 1990 Engineering Auditorium Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
Follow·up Debate With Students and Faculty 
7:00pm. Thursday, November 15, 1990 Centerfor Social Concerns' multipurpose room 
Questions and comments from the audience will be encouraged. 
~TUDE -NT 

&OYIIIIUl 

This series was made possible through the generosity ofseveral members ofthe Arts & Letters Council and the Business College Council. 
. 




----~--------------~--­
Monday, November 12, 1990 The Observer page 9 







OOGIEATTHEBARN -~ CRY BABY 
AP Photo Emperor Akihito is dressed in full attire with decorations for a recent photo session at the Imperial Palace in Tokyo. Akihito will be formally enthroned in a religious rite on Nov.12. The event will be attended by some 2,500 dignitaries, including Prince Charles of Britain. 
l.J!'coming Events 
TUESDAY,NOVEMBER13 CLARE BRANDABUR former teacher at Bir Zeit University 

.., (West Bank) and Horns University (Syria) "PROSPECTS FOR MUTUAL RECOGNITION BETWEEN PALESTINIANS AND ISRAELIS: AN EYEWITNESS ACCOUNT' 
12:00 noon -Room 101 Law School 
SERGEI ROMANIUK Historian at the Pushkin Museum and the Museum for the History and Reconstruction of Moscow "PERESTROIKA FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF AN ORDINARY MUSCOVITE" 4:00p.m.-Room 101 Law School 
WEDNESDAY,NOVEMBER14 KAREN KYLE Career Counselor, St. Mary's College Presentation on writing resumes for jobs in the area of social change and justice 
4:00 p.m. -Room 224 Security Bldg. 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL


111111~~~0;~?!:7 
· SOPH&MORE FOBMAL 
rceV!MBIIIlamtt ·~ ~U:tB::,;reo ,... 
!IIMI'J.AI6HJ.INCIIIa.! 
!i:'btiCDIIliNDV.ll1l13111Ufth 
lDIIlnJillall}aiJlJD~~~~~£1'0D.!-5p.a. 
Coltill!AalllllparGDUPll. 



Japan gets new emperor 
TOKYO (AP) -In a solemn, centuries-old rHe at the Imperial Palace, Emperor Ak­ihito formally accedes to the Chrysanthemum Throne today, becoming the first Japanese monarch enthroned as a sym­bol and not a living god. 
Leftist radicals, who have vowed to disrupt the cere­monies, launched missiles at three military bases early to­day, but there were no injuries or damage, the Defense Agency said. Radicals also were be­lieved behind early morning fires at three train stations. 
A massive national security operation involving thousands of police was mounted to pro­tect the ceremony and the scores of visiting dignitaries. 
Clad in ancient court cos­tume, seated atop an elaborate lacquered platform under a curtained canopy encrusted with gold phoenixes and circu­lar mirrors, Akihito will face a courtyard lined with ceremonial banners. 
Next to him on a smaller platform will be Empress Michiko. Prime Minister Toshiki" Kaifu will lead the 2,500 guests in three cheers of "Banzai!'­"May you live ten thousand years!" 
Critics say the 30-minute cer­emony-and a series of ac­companying rites to be held in coming weeks-are based too closely on the traditional reli­gious rituals used for Akihito's father and grandfather, who were enthroned as living gods. 
Under Japan's postwar con-
Urban mayors want more federal funds 
NEW YORK (AP) -Cities de-ketplaces will disappear." solving such problems. 
serve more federal aid because Dinkins and a dozen other Boston Mayor Haymgnd Flynn 
they supply the labor and the mayors spoke at a news con-said cities aren't getting enough 
tax revenue that keeps the na-ference to kick off a two-day federal aid to support drug 
tion going, some of.the nation's conference on urban issues, education. 
urban mayors said Sunday. such as combating drug abuse, Many of the mayors, most of 
"Cities are our nation's mar-improving education and pay-them Democrats, said the fed­
ketplaces, not only for business ing for costly infrastructure eral government is neglecting 
but also for ideas," Mayor such as bridges and roads. urban areas. In 1980, federal 
David Dinkins said. "If we funds made up 19.4 percent of 
choke off our cities by denying Atlanta Mayor Maynard New York City's budget. Cur-
them the resources they need to .Jackson said property taxes rently that share is 9.7 percent, 
function efficiently, the mar-alone won't pay the bills for Dinkins said. 
: 2·0% Discount : : TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY :
I . I 
• Eye Exams • Large Selection of Frames • All Types of Contacts 

Professional Vision 
Dr. Ronald Snyder and Associates 


~~ ~~O{CfCNg) 
!p.tt!, c:.wra£C A.wlltoriwtt h· . 

M.CMrCes9?of.11rtttt t Is week at Carrol 
*********JAMAICA********* Nov. I 3-15th at Anyone Interested In Going 9 & I I ·I Sp rn f-or Over Spring Break Come . . To An Inf~~:~~~~n Meeting Qfl/y $/. At 6p.m. In Haggar Parlor Sponsored By the Senior Class 
stitution, the emperor is simply a national symbol. 
In one controversial element of the rite, Akihito's raised dais is said to be patterned after one used by the sun goddess, from whom tradition says the Japanese imperial line is de­scended. Critics say that is an implied symbol of divinity. 
The government is reportedly spending $95 million on the rites, much of it for security. Opponents say state funding of the ceremonies, linked to Japan's indigenous Shinto reli­gion, violates the constitutional separation of religion and state. 
The projectiles were launched at two suburban bases of the Self-Defense Forces, or military, and one base in northern Tokyo, police said. They blamed radicals for the attacks and for the train fires, which stopped service on two commuter lines but caused no injuries. 
On Sunday, two bombs ex­ploded at the house of U.S. Consul General Gregory John­son in Nishinomiya, in western Japan. Police said they caused little damage and no injuries. It was not immediately clear whether the explosions were connected with the enthrone­ment. 
A record 37,000 police, in­cluding reinforcements from a majority of Japan's 47 prefec­tures, have been mobilized for security surrounding the rite. 
Dignitaries from 158 coun­tries expected to attend the ceremony include Vice President Dan Quayle, United Nations Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar, Supreme Soviet Chairman Anatoly Lukyanov and Britain's Prince Charles and Princess Diana. 
The government has not re­leased the names of Japanese dignitaries invited to the cere­mony, because of fear of radical attacks on their homes or businesses. 
On Sunday, police vehicles lined the entrances to the palace, hotels and other key ar­eas, and officers checked the bags of passers-by. Manholes were ·sealed near the palace and police used a low-flying blimp to search for signs of terrorist activity. Frogmen searched the moats surrounding the palace. 
Riot police buses and trucks with water cannon stood guard. Officers stopped passing cars, checking licenses and using mirrors to look underneath some vehicles. 
Traffic was sharply restrictnd or halted along highways and in areas around the palace, but few tie-ups were reported, in part because enthronement day was declared a national holiday and many Tokyoites took ad­vantage of the three-day week­end to leave town. Airlines re­ported many flights were booked close to capaeity. 
Akihito became emperor im­mediately upon the death of his father, Emperor Hirohito, in January 1989, but a period of mourning was observed before his formal enthronement. 
-----------~-~---------~­





Business
page 10 Monday, November 12, 1990 
Only Picasso owners laugh at the recession 
NEW YORK (AP) -Last week's contemporary art sales confirmed that the steam has gone out of the art market, ac­cording to art experts, and more disappointing prices could emerge this week in sales of works from the estates of Henry Ford II and Greta Garbo. 
The euphoria that once gripped auction rooms is gone amid fears of a U.S. recession. 
But if the market has fallen, it's far from dead, experts say. Speculators who didn't know Pissarro from Picasso may have departed but serious col­lectors who know art and buy for the long term are bidding. 
"What we are missing are the headline-grabbing situations that we had in the 
last couple of years," said William O'Reilly of Salander­O'Reilly Galleries Inc. "Now I think we have a more conservative buying public ... whereas perhaps there was more of a festival mood about it before." 
Sotheby's auction of postwar art Tuesday was certainly no festival. 
Fewer than half of the works offered-34 out of 77-were sold, the rest failing to reach the minimum price the sellers had in mind. And the total for the sale was $19.8 million, only half of the lowest pr~-sale estimate by the auction huuse. · Christie's sale the following night was a bit more upbeat. Thirty of the 58 lots sold for a total of $36.7 million, against 
a pre-sale estimate by the auction house of $4 7.7 million to $65.4 million. 
Willem de Kooning's "July," a large abstract canvas of fractured shapes and obscured colors painted in 1956, sold for $8.8 million, well above its high-end estimate of $7 million. 
"The very top market usually sustains itself," said Bonnie Barrett Stretch, editor of the ARTnewsletter, a biweekly re­port on the international art market. "True masterpieces sustain prices through thick and thin." 
That may not bode well for this week's sale of impression­ist paintings since art experts agree that few outstanding works are up for sale. If sales are sluggish, they say, it will have more to do with the qual­ity of the art offered than· the state of the market. 
Stretch says the absence of great art works has to do with luck of the draw and a reluc­tance among some owners to sell in the current market. 
The art collection of the late Henry Ford II will be auctioned on Monday at Sotheby's. The most important work is Renoir's "Cup of Chocolate," an oil on canvas painted about 1878 of a young woman seated with a cup and saucer at he'r side. 
The pre-sale estimate for the painting is $15 million to $18 million. 
On Thursday, the art collec­tion of film legend Greta Garbo will go on the block at Sotheby's. 

Sotheby's is counting on peo­ple buying because of the Garbo name, said Harry Brooks, director of Wildenstein Co. Inc., a New York art gallery. 
"But there are really only three important Renoirs and a Bonnard," he said. "If that sale doesn't do well that doesn't mean anything because the whole sale is sort of overblown." 
Christie's will sell a still life by Vincent van Gogh on Wednesday. "Vase With Daisies and Poppies," painted in the French town of Auvers shortly before his death in 1890, has a pre-sale estimate of $12 million to $16 million. 

SAN MATEO, Calif. (AP)­Local humane society officials are pressing for an ordinance to ban all breeding of dogs and cats. It's not that they are against puppies and kittens, they just want to stop killing 10,000 unwanted anim<tls each year. 
The debate over the proposed breeding ban is shaping into a class battle fought by responsible pet owners and breeders of aristocratic pets, and shelter workers who must euthanize thousands of those pets' poorer cousins each year. 
"What is radical is what we've been doing, killing ani­mals," said Kim Sturla, execu­tive director of the Peninsula Humane Society. "I think it's crazy that it's become accept­able to kill dogs and cats." 
Under the proposal, believed to be the first of its kind in the nation, pet owners found in violation would face fines ranging from $100 to $500. Penalties would be waived if the animals are spayed or neutered. 
"It doesn't seem right. If people allow their animals to roam outside, then I under­stand why they should be spayed or neutered," said Carolyn Varner of San Mateo County, who is selling two 5­month-old registered Persian kittens for $17 5 each. 
"But my cats are indoor cats and they aren't allowed to go breed every time they go into heat." 
The proposed ordinance, which would apply to unincor­porated areas in this affluent county of 600,000 south of San Francisco, is designed to reach zero pet population growth. 
It calls for a one-year mora­torium on breeding and then mandatory spaying and neutering of cats and dogs. Pet stores would still be allowed to import puppies and kittens, but buyers would have to agree to neuter them within a year. 
Opponents argue that it is unenforceable. Breeders, they say, would lose a livelihood and animals spayed and neutered to comply with the new law would be barred from many competitions. 
San Mateo County Supervisor Tom Nolan, the ordinance's sponsor, said he expects some details may be modified after public hearings that begin Tuesday before the county board of supervisors. 
But Nolan says the tragedy 
• • • ; ~ I' 
J • -1
.'.' .. 

.... I ......... ; J : !' l .; . • : 
of euthanizing thousands of animals a year ultimately outweighs other concerns. 
"If you put show and prize animals as one value next to an ordinance that might potentially save 10,000 dogs or cats a year, I imagine the choice is clear," Nolan said. 
Sturla said there are no large-scale breeders she is aware of in San Mateo County. 
"I would challenge anybody to show me anyone making a living off breeding animals, ex­cept 'puppy mill'-ers," Sturla said. "We're certainly having an impact on somebody's hobby, but we're not having an impact on anyone's livelihood." 
And Nolan said he is less in­terested in catching every violator than encouraging pet owners to be responsible. 
"My hope is that ... there will some kind of social sanctions attached to the person in the neighborhood who lets their dog or cat go around without being spayed or neutered," he said. 
Of the roughly 15,000 ani­mals brought to the shelter each year, 1,500 are returned to their owners and 3,500 are adopted, according to Humane Society figures. The remaining 10,000 animals are killed. 
I ,. : 
• ~~ 
f I 
: ~ :-. ; : 


TWA flies toward Pan Am acquisition 
NEW YORK (AP) -Trans World Airlines proposed buying Pan Am Corp. for $150 million in cash and $300 million in securities, Pan Am said Sunday. 
The proposal is contingent on Pan Am calling off an agreement to sell its U.S.­London routes to United Airlines Corp., said Pamela Hanlon, a Pan Am spokeswoman. 
TWA also stipulated that Pan Am and TWA would have to sell overlapping international routes at the same time the buyout would be completed, she said. 
A letter dated and delivered to Pan Am on Friday proposes Pan Am shareholders receive $1 per share in cash and $2 per share in securities. 
Pan Am's stock closed at $1.62 1/2 Friday on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Asked if Pan Am viewed the offer as hostile, Ms. Hanlon said she did not want to char­acterize the proposal. 
Analysts have considered Pan Am strong in international service, but lacking a strong domestic network to feed over­seas flights. TWA has been considered strong domestically. 

The TWA letter also proposed buying the Pan Am Shuttle by the end of the year. The shuttle flies between Boston, New York and Washington, D.C. 
Pan Am agreed in Octoher to sell some U.S.-London routes to United for $400 million. The deal also would include a mar­keting strategy intended to bolster Pan Am's Latin American routes. The two airlines would coordinate some flights in an effort to feed each other passengers. 
If the Pan Am-UAL deal is not completed by Nov. 14, the route sale could be called off, Pan Am said. 
TWA's proposal is good thwugh Nov. 16, Pan Am said. TWA contemplates completing the deal by the end of March, Pan Am said. 
TWA and Pan Am are the only two U.S. airlines flying into London's Heathrow airport. The routes Pan Am has agreed to sell United would be among the duplications that would have to be sold for the buyout to go through. 
Indiana utilities battle for access to market rates 
HAMMOND. Ind. (AP) ­Northern Indiana Public Ser-Yice Co. is appealing a federal order that has given another Indiana utility blanket approval to make long-term, bulk electricity sales at market-based rates. 

NIPSCO said it is appealing a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ruling last __ June that allowed PSI Energy Co. to sell up to 450 megawatts of power across state lines at long-term, market rates. 
·~ a tradeoff; PSI agreed to open up its transmission grid to other power genera­tors. 
for the District of Columbia, NISPCO said it did not object to the market-based rates but to the open access provided in the order. Utilities sell most of their electricity to customers in their service territories at rates fixed by state regulators. FERC regulates wholesale, or sale for resale, electric rates, in which surplus power is sold, for instance, to another utility. 
The authority to sell up to 450 megawatts at market rates for terms of five years or longer is a critical part ()f PSI's strategy to aid its financial recovery from its Marble Hill debt through better use of its generating 



Viewpoint
Monday, November 12, 1990 page 11 


LETTERS 

NEA provides priceless opportunities; deserves support 
Dear Editor: of the over 85,000 grants the might not be able to solicit need nurturing. Our counter­It is unfortunate that Mr. 
In a Nov. 5 Observer editorial NEA has awarded, only a hand­large private donations because parts in Europe have a cen­Scarcella believes the propa­Andrew Scarcella advocates the ful have been controversial. It of the audience they serve. The turies-old tradition of state ganda put forth by right wing elimination of the National is a model that other govern­NEA supports folk arts festival support for the arts, from the extremists. Obviously, Mr. Endowment for the Arts. This ment agencies should follow to in Appalachia. Certainly Mr. DeMedici's in' the Italian Scarcella does not i.ruly appre­short-sighted vision fails to improve their own effective­Scarcella does not expect these Renaissance to the current ciate nor completely under­recognize the mission of the ness. people to provide money, and British Arts Council. In stand the work and role of the NEA. The NEA was founded to The NEA also encourages and I'm sure that a large corpora­Germany, artists are trusted by NEA. I challenge Mr. Scarcella promote excellence and diver­draws private support for the tion like IBM is not going to be­the state. The government be­to educate himself further on sity in the arts and accessibility arts through its challenge come its corporate sponsor. lieves in the artist's right to both sides of the issue before for all Americans to this excel­grants program, in which fed­Where does this leave these embrace and explore unusual making such severe recommen­lence and diversity. eral funds are matched with people? Are they not entitled and provocative ideas; they are dations. 
private monies to support access to the arts just like the the foundation for the continu­Eileen J. Gagel 
The NEA works exhaustively artists and arts organization. wealthy who can afford to pay ation of Germany's long-lived LeMans Hall to educate and bring art to There are many artistic en­$50 for a ticket to a Broadway culture. Nov. 5, 1990 people who may not necessarily deavors that were originally play. Besides, with the new in­have access to the arts. This supported by the NEA that have come tax laws, it makes it diffi­allows for equality of opportu­gone on to commercial success. cult for taxpayers to write off 
If snowball fight occurs,
nity for everyone to learn about For example, the movie charitable contributions, leav­and appreciate art. It provides "Driving Miss Daisy" was ing arts organizations without art education for young people originally a play written with private donations to support 
students will be disciplined 
so that they, too, may grow to the support of NEA funds. them. They are suffering, just appreciate art. Since the Other top drawer arts organi­as other non-profit organiza­Dear Editor: community are put on notice founding of the NEA in 1965, zations, from Chicago's tions are. With the arrival of the winter that, because of the danger to the United States has seen the Steppenwolf Theatre Company Overall, the NEA provides a season, we are once again persons and property, anyexpansion of the number of to the New York Shakespeare vital service to society, and to concerned about the possibility participation in a snowball fight symphonies, theaters, dance Festival, were supported by eliminate it would be a step into of a large-scale snowball fight. may result in disciplinary ac­companies and operas. The NEA grants. the cultural dark ages. The In past years, the snowball fight tion. NEA has an exemplary record The NEA is also responsible danger in Mr. Scarcella's ar­on the evening of the first We ask for your full in its awarding of grants. Out for funding smaller groups that gument is believing art does not snowfall has resulted in serious cooperation in this matter. 
injury to students and extensive damage to University property. Ann M. Firth


Critic of cartoon closeminded in 
With this special bulletin, all Director ofResidence Life members of the University Nov. 5, 1990

conception of ensuing conflict 
Dear Editor: shot dead on the scene, and Jewish propaganda accepted 
In his letter to the editor titled that is not because " ... they con­blindly so often in the past by "Cartoon misrepresents sider front page news-print policy makers as well as com­shootings" (The Observer, Nov more sacred than human life," moners. 5). Bill Lerman seems to be but because of indiscriminate A couple of questions come to missing the point of both the shooting on the part of the mind here: do the Palestinians cartoon and Mr. Araman's let­Israelis. have to lose six million people ter. The cartoon was as accu­Sadly, the killing of two or to be felt sorry for, and, if the proven that children brought reality. In cases of this sort, a rate as cartoons can be, depict­three Palestinians each day has West was held responsible for up in an abusive environment minimal dose of justice is rec­ing the Israelis' unjustifiable yet to get the attention of the the debauchery against the become themselves abusive as ommended to remove the blur­lack of concern towards West. It is easy for Mr. Lerman Jewish people, who should be adults. But does this make it riness and bring out the crisp
Palestinian lives. According to to use the out-dated, see­held responsible today? It is right? images of reality as they are news reports. no Israelis died through rhetoric of the Jewish time to realize that the Israeli Mr. Lerman's reasoning is and not as we want them to be. during the Temple Mount inci­victim, except what Mr. Lerman Jews have switched their that of someone whose innate dent. On the other hand, seems to forget is that today's "historical role" from oppressed superiority is blurring his al­Mansour H. Eid '86 twenty-three Palestinians were 'audience' is less vulnerable to to oppressor. It has also been ready distorted conception of Nov. 6, 1990 

DOONESBURY 

7D reNO OfF HeAT0/SOR/J&R.., 
YCXJ GOTTA HYl?RAT£3.' 5/X. 6AUON5 A OAY-7HAT'S 24 OF TH/3513 BOTTt&S.' 
~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
THAT 8R/311K5 f)()WN TO UM...U/HAT 1'/..L.
961316HT-OU/I/Ce 6tA5SCS IF we'R/3 {i}/8/<A t:J4.Y, OR. ON/3 GlASS 
ATTAQ(eO<! YOU 

E3V!3RY TeN M!NlfT/35 FOR. 
aJHI/.b

/fO HOURS 
YOU 

/ A OAY.' WJNI<.
\ 
~ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It there is not struggle, there is no progress... Power concedes nothing without a demand. It never did and never will.' 
Frederick Douglass 

Viewpoint

page 12 Monday, November 12, 1990 



Peaceful alternatives to war exist in Gulf crisis 
Bv Janet Meissner 
With the recent decision to dispatch an additional 100,000 
U.S. soldiers to join the 200.000-plus already stationed in the Persian Gulf, the U.S. is moving ever-closer to war in the Middle East. George Bush, through recent escalations in his war-making rhetoric, is testing the political waters to see if he could get away with raising the level of conflict with Iraq to military combat. The stage is set for such action. With his "patience wearing thin," Bush has been implying that military action is the only solution to the crisis in the gulf. This is not the case! What non-military alternatives are there? 
1) Maintaining the sanctions: The UN Security Council should maintain and enforce the sanctions against Iraq until Iraq complies with the demands to release the hostages, withdraw from Kuwait and permit the restoration of an independent Kuwaiti government. In accordance with the Geneva Convention, food and medicine should be exempted from the embargo; food should not be used as a weapon by either side. 

2) Negotiating: De-escalat­ing the rhetoric and reducing the military threat can lead to talking, and talking can lead to negotiations. The U.S. is far from exhausting diplomatic resolutions to the conflict. Furthermore, the U.S. must recognize that the dispute is between Iraq and Kuwait, and between Iraq and the interna­tional community as repre­sented by the United Nations. Iraq, Kuwait, the Arab League and the UN should be the pri­mary parties in negotiations, not the U.S. 
3) De-militarizing the con­flict: A condition for success in negotiations is the reduction of threat by all parties. The United States can lead the way by immediately signaling Iraq that no offensive military ac­tion will be taken. Next, U.S. military forces in Saudi Arabia should be rapidly replaced by a multi-national UN and Arab League deterrent force under UN command and control. In addition, an agreement is needed among Iraq, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia to rapidly replace military forces in Kuwait with a UN Peacekeeping force. 
4) Settling outstanding Iraq­Kuwait disputes: Through the auspices of the UN Secretary General, intense diplomatic and negotiating efforts should be undertaken to resolve the underlying disputes. The World Court should be offered as an impartial forum for deciding matters at issue between Iraq and its neighbors. 
5) Arms control: The U.S. needs to take initiatives to en­courage a multi-national agreement for an arms em­bargo of the Middle East, which could be monitored and enforced through UN agencies. 
6) Settling the Israeli­Palestinian dispute: The on­going Israeli-Palestinian dis­pute troubles the entire region. Without a negotiated settlement acceptable to both parties and based on the principles of mutual recognition, mutual security and self-determination for each, Israel's security will be in question and U.S. relations in the Arab world will be difficult. 
7) Liberation from oil: The West's (and Japan's) economic strategic dependence on Middle East oil has brought the world to the brink of major war. There is another option: renewable, environmentally safe, alternative energy. Even if oil continues to flow to the West, it is estimated that world oil supplies will dry up within 30 years if present levels of consumption continue. Much is already known about energy efficiency and about environmentally safe, sustainable, non-nuclear energy sources. What's needed is the political will to turn this knowledge into economically. competitive applications. 
A recent poll conducted by Americans Talk Security, a bi­partisan group of polling and consulting firms, which was published in the New York Times, revealed that 9 out of 10 Americans are not ready for their country to start a war. Nearly half of those surveyed said that they would be suspicious if the U.S. said that Iraq had started a war. 7 out of 10 said that the U.S. should not even consider military combat until the economic blockade of Iraq and Kuwait and other initiatives have been given a chance to work. In a Nov. 1 New York Times article filled with Bush's war-making rhetoric, Bush was quoted as saying, "What am I going to do about [the situation in Kuwait]? Just wait and see." Americans cannot afford to "wait and see" how many people die in the Middle East before letting the f>resident and congress know that combat in the Middle East is unacceptable. 
What can you do? If you want to prevent war in the Middle East and beli~ve that the proposals outlinel'l above should be followed instead, do not remain silent! Write to your congressional representatives and the president to make your voice heard. Call the White House Comment Desk at (202) 456­7639. Ignorance and apathy on the part of the people lead to war. Every U.S. citizen must claim responsibility for 
U.S. actions in the Gulf. 
Janet Meissner is a graduate student in the International Peace House. 


LETTERS 

GIFT, a program presenting hope for future Darners in need of aid 
Dear Editor: 
The time of the year has come when seniors have to begin to decide what they are going to do next year. Many of them are currently busy trying to interview with various employers. At the same time, many seniors are also thinking about the loans that they will have to repay when they graduate this upcoming May. Now, there is a new program on campus which will allow present students to help alleviate the need for loans of future Domers. It is called GIFT. 
GIFT is a program which is designed to direct savings from corporate interviews to educa­tional grants. It is modeled after a program called Students Against Homelessness, which was founded at Harvard Law School and is now active at thirteen law schools and four MBA schools across the country. 

Here's how GIFT works. When a student receives an in­vitation for a second interview, he/she asks the company if it has heard of GIFT and if it is willing to participate in GIFT. Instead of staying at the high­priced hotel that the company suggests, the student requests and arranges to stay at a lower-priced hotel that he or she knows is near the company or that the company suggests, or, better yet, the student stays with family or friends. Then, the company donates the money that is saved to GIFT. 
Hopefully, by next year, GIFT will also be able to generate money by allowing interviewing students to arrange their travel plans through a designated travel agent, who would then donate a percentage of his commission from the ticket to GIFT. 
The money raised by GIFT will be used to establish educa­tional opportunities for those who would otherwise not have them. GIFT's short term goal is to support educational pro­grams in the South Bend area. This year it will support the Center for Basic Learning Skills, which is a program run by two nuns that teaches adults to read. As alluded to above, GIFT's long term goal is to establish a scholarship fund for students who have financial need at ND. Examples would include students who had to drop out of ROTC, students whose financial circumstances change after enrollment, and students who lose loans or other scholarships. 
Presently, a brochure which describes GIFT is being pro­duced. As soon as it is finished, it will be sent to various corporations across the US and to the seniors who are interviewing on campus. Hopefully, by next year GIFT will be established, not only at the undergraduate level but also at the law school and the MBA school. 
Please seriously consider participating in GIFT when you go for your interviews during your senior year. After all, the success of GIFT lies in student participation. If you have any question about, or would like to help with, GIFT (this offer includes underclassmen), please give me a call at 283­4307. 
Kevin Cavanaugh Sorin Hall Nov. 6, 1990 



'Charismatics' have lost sight of the Christian spirit 
Dear Editor: 
Last spring I attended several meetings on campus of a group of Catholics who call themselves "Charismatics." To make a dispiriting story short, this group and their practices were a major factor in a few events which caused me to be­come severely depressed and even to contemplate suicide. I am writing this letter to de­nounce this cult-like sect of Catholics and their practices and to discourage anyone who is considering joining it. 
Charismatics are the product of a new religious movement and have stressed the charis­mata or "gifts" of the spirit, often including cries called "speaking in tongues." 
This group influences poten­tial members to conform to its norms by using what sociolo­gists term "identification." Identification implies an actual belief change based on accep­tance of the group's norms and values. Sociologists have long noted the association of charismatic leadership and identification. Many investiga­tors have linked the success of some religions to charisma and their leaders, and it has been noted that cults often have charismatic leaders. In The Sociology ofReligion, M. Weber also says that this form of " ... religious behavior is not worship of the god but rather coercion of the god, and invo­cation is not prayer but rather the exercise of a magical for­mula"-p. 25. 

Moreover, Charismatics stress "speaking in tongues" as a gift of God's spirit; however, this is a special ability given through the Holy Spirit only to disciples in the early Christian congregation that enabled them to preach or otherwise glorify God in a language other than their own. 
The Bible does not say that all who would have God's spirit would speak in tongues. "Truly by one spirit we were all baptized into one body ... Not all have the gifts of healing do they? Not all speak in tongues, do they?" (1Cor 12:13,30). 
Moreover, ecstatic speech in a language that a person never learned does not prove that he has the Holy Spirit. It may come from a source other than a true god. 1John4:1 advises: "It is not every spirit, my dear people, that you can trust; test them to see if they come from God; there are many false prophets now in the world." 
Among those speaking in tongues today are Baptists, Roman Catholics, Episcopalians, Methodists, Lutherans and Presbyterians. Jesus said that the Holy Spirit would "guide his disciples into the complete truth (John 16:13)." Do the members of these religions who "speak in tongues" believe they have been "guided into the complete truth?" How could that be, since they are not all in agree­ment? 
Moreover, a joint statement by the Fountain Trust and The Church of England Evangelical Council admitted, "We are also aware that a similar phe­nomenon can occur under oc­cult/demon influence." (Gospel and Spirit, April, 1977; pub­lished by the Fountain Trust and the Church of England Evangelical Council, p. 12). The Book of Religious Movements in Contemporary America (edited by Iriving I. Zaretsky and Mark P. Leone), quoting L.P. Gerlach, reports that in Haiti "speaking in tongues" is characteristic of both Pentecostal and voodoo religions. 
Furthermore, the "speaking in tongues" that is done today is not the same as was done by the first century Christians. In the first century, the miracu­lous gifts of the spirit, includ­ing the ability to "speak in tongues," verified that God's favor had shifted from the Jewish system of worship to the newly established Christian congregation (Heb. 2:2-4). Since that objective was ac­complished in the first century, is it necessary to prove the same thing over and over again in our day? 
In the first century, when Christians "spoke in tongues" what they said had meaning to people who knew those lan­guages (Acts 2:4-8). Today, is it not true that speaking in tongues involves an outburst of unintelligible sounds? 
In addition, in the first cen­t]lfy, the Bible shows, congre­gations were to limit the speaking in tongues to two or three people who were to do it at any given meeting, and they were to do it "each in turn." If there were no interpreter pre­sent, they were to keep silent (lCor 14:27,28). This is cer­tainly not what I saw being done at the meetings, where those who did not "speak in tongues" were in the minority. 
I cannot explain precisely how attending those meetings made me feel, except that I felt tremendous guilt for going and then for not going. I also felt as if I were naive and inadequate at the meetings because I did not have "the gift of tongues." However, I am glad to know now that if "speaking in tongues" is not a bunch of crap, then it comes from sources other than God. Also, for those readers who are con­sidering joining this group, I strongly advise finding another, 

.safer activity. 
Devon Marcuson '92 Off Campus/SMC November 7, 1990 





Accent 
Monday, November12, 1990 page 13 
Letter from a lonely soldier 
The following is a letter that was sent to the residents of Lyons Hall from Kevin Miller, an American soldier stationed in Saudi Arabia. No one really knows how or why Kevin decided to write to Notre Dame, but it is obvious that life in Saudi Arabia is not as glamorous or exciting as war is often portrayed. The following 

Monday, 08 OCT 90 "7b the Girls ofNotre Dame, " llello from Saudi Arabia. I'm sure you are enjoying the cool weather 
where you are. Believe me, we aren't. It's approximately 110+ degrees. But at night you freeze your butt off 
As of today I've been here 63 days. We got here the 8th of August, but it looks like we will be staying for a while -another Christmas overseas. Panama last year, Saudi this year. 
I'm a high-speed paratrooper and was ::.:._--· stationed at Ft. Bragg, N.C. I work in"' communications. I'm 24 and from New Mexico. I have blonde hair (very little now) and blue eyes. I love to run, and I also sky dive. There is nothing like putting your knees in the breeze. 
We are here for a reason, to fight, so why are we just sitting on our butts? If you have the answer let me know. We get so bored that we • catch scorpions and fight them. There is nothing to do. Mail is the biggest thing over here. llopefully some ofyou will write. 
I know some of you college women lay out all summer to get that "Golden Tan. " Well, join the . army and come to Saudi Arabia. Believe me, you ~ can get a tan here. We went swimming in the 
· Persian Gulf. You will for sure get a tan. 
I'm about 50 miles from Kuwait. To tell you exactly how close we are, we drove up the highway and there were signs that said "Kuwait." I knew we were close then. 
. \ I hope this gets to some ofyou up there at yoou.;.r~~;;;' dorms. Write soon. • · Kevin Miller 
Desert Shield Spc Miller Kevin M 585374185 B co 50th S/G BN (AIRBORNE) APO, NY 09657 

--:-:-. . r ..... __,.... 
Dear Kevin,~ 
I know what it's like to wait for mail. I spent last semester living in Mexico City, and I remember how excited I was to get aerograms from the U.S.A. I got a pretty good tan in Mexico so I don't think I need to g·o out to the Persian Gulf to get one, but I really have to hand it to the men and women who are out there now waiting in the desert sun. 
You're probably wondering about current events over here. Sports: Right now the Chicago Bears an'l 8 -1. I really can't tell you what's happening in the rest of the NFL because I only care about the Bears. Darryl Strawberry just signed a 5 year, $20 million contract with the L.A. Dodgers. I won't tell you how I feel about the team he used to play for. 
Entertainment: Led Zeppelin just came out with a boxed four-CO collection of their greatest hits. The New Kids on the Block are coming to Notre Dame on April 7. I really don't know why they are coming here, because I think all of us are past puberty. 
General News: The Persian Gulf. We haven't forgotten about our troops over there, and we all want you to return home soon and safely. I see clips of troops saying Hi to their stateside families on "Good Morning America," and we hear a lot about Operation Desert Shield every day. 
I hope that they get you some good food for Thanksgiving. Close your eyes and picture a table with a steaming turkey filled to the brim with homemade stuffing. 
Right next to the turkey is a plate of sweet potatoes glazed with brown sugar, and another plate with slices of jelled cranberries (my family gets it out of a can) and a big salad bowl filled with crisp green lettuce, juicy red tomatoes and fresh sour cream dressing. 
And don't forget the pumpkin pie topped with a foamy spoonful of whipped cream. 
Well, just kind of hold that thought until you get back home. I kind of liked writing that passage because the closest thing we get to a Thanksgiving meal at school is a turkey loaf with stuffing that you scoop up with an ice cream scooper, so I'm starting to get hungry for a real Thanksgiving meal. 
I know that you've been over there a long time and it's probably getting very boring, but it's better to be bored than to be in battle. I often worry about what's going to happen over there and I sometimes feel so helpless when l hear that more troops are going overseas every week. 
If I had things my way I'd have all of you home for Christmas. (Although I don't think you would all fit in my parent's house.) 
For now, there's really nothing much you or I can do except hope that the crisis in the Persian Gulf ends soon and that our world leaders will get a clue from what happened in Berlin and tear down the walls of misunderstanding that separate us from our fellow human beings. 
Take care of yourself, Kevin, and remember your friends at Notre Dame are thinking of you. 

Robyn Simmons Pasquerilla West 
Dear Kevin, 
It was too impersonal to write to someone I've never met, so our copy editor printed out a copy of your letter with "Dear Paige" at the top, and now I feel like I've known you intimately. 
I'm sorry, but I've just never been the type of person to be a good pen-pal; I used to write to my high school French teacher, but you can only work "Je vais ala gare" ("I am going to the train station") into a letter so many times. Now I just write to my mom. 
I'm sorry that you're so bored out there, but at least it sounds like you're working on your tan. I assume that the military provides an adequate selection of sunscreen products for you and your friends. So... do you prefer lotion or oil? It seems like the new body mousses are really shaking up the industry, but in my opinion the future of Bain de Solei! is definitely in the spray-oils. 
Are you using zinc oxide on your nose? You really should, and if you feel conspicuous, you could probably get some in flesh color. It sounds like you have pretty sensitive skin, so you're probably using an SPF of about 6. But then again, I shouldn't jump to conclusions -there's such a fine line between SPF 4 and SPF 6. My best advice to you: moisturize, moisturize, moisturize. 
I've looked at some of the other letters that girls are writing you, so you should be pretty much caught up on sports and politics by now. Would you like a fashion update? For the ladies, short skirts are coming back in for the spring, in bright. vivid colors. Try to stay away from lame' this season. For the men, the big news is: FATIGUES. Layer them, accessorize them, dress them up, go casual... but I don't need to tell you that. Well, I'll let you get back to your lizard racing and whatever else it is you do. Tell your friends that if they ever have severe letter needs, write me and they'll get fashion tips and more. I just wanted you to know that even though we've never met, you're in my thoughts, my heart, and 
my prayers. Please be careful. 
Wjth love, 


Paige Smoron Lyons Hall 
Dear Kevin, 
Thank you for your letter. It was a pleasant surprise for all of us here to receive a letter from someone in Saudi Arabia. It sounds like things are very difficult for all of you out in the desert. I can barely imagine what it must be like to spend so many days out in the desert with nothing to do to keep you busy. 
I wish I could tell you why you are all over there seemingly doing nothing, but I cannot. It makes no sense to me either. I wish this situation could just be resolved peacefully and all of the troops could come home where they belong. 
While you are sweltering in the 100-plus-degree heat, winter is quickly coming to South Bend. Our nice Indian summer has turned cold on us these past few days. We are expecting snow soon, I think. Winter is great for the first few days, but then walking to class in the cold and snow gets to be a pain. The temptation to skip classes and stay at home becomes almost too great to resist. 
Of course, the first snow up here brings with it the Annual Snowball Fight. Last year, it got a little out of hand: a few window were broken in the Dillon Hall chapel, and there was an ensuing mess with Student Affairs. Hopefully, it won't be such a disaster this year. 
Football season is going strong, and Fighting Irish football is as big as ever. It is amazing how much people around here get into watching the team play. Last weekend was our "big game" against Tennessee, and the luck of the Irish held out once again . Bowl bids come out next week. I think that we are going to play Colorado in the Orange Bowl again. 
It should be a good rematch of last year's game. I don't think that I am going to go to the game, however, because Florida is awfully far away from Washington (the state, not the city), which is where I am from. 
I am, of course, absolutely ecstatic about how the Washington Huskies are doing this year. They are probably going to the Rose Bowl and will probably play Iowa, even though they lost to the Bruins yesterday. 
It is really too bad that this may be your second straight Christmas away from home. I bet that it is just not the same to have Christmas in the desert as it would be to be home. As cheesy as it may sound, there really is "no place like home for the holidays." 
I hope you will write to us again, tell us more about yourself and how things are going out in the desert. Everybody over here hopes that the end to the Persian Gulf conflict is in sight and that everybody over there will come home safely. Take care. 
Usa Eaton Lyons Hall 
I j' 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 14 The Observer Monday, November 12, 1990 
Mets say Strawberry has major drinking problem 
NEW YORK (AP) -Two of Darryl Strawberry's former New York Mets teammates claim the All-Star outfielder began drinking again late last season, less than six months after rehabilitation for alcohol abuse, according to a published report. 
Newsday, in its Sunday edi­tions, said a pair of Mets play­ers -not identified -told the newspaper that Strawberry drank beer in the clubhouse and took hard liquor to his ho­tel room on road trips. 
Eric Goldschmidt, the agent who negotiated Strawberry's five-year, $20.25 million free-agent contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers last week, de­nied the allegations. 
"There are a lot of bitter and jealous people out there," Goldschmidt told The Associated Press on Sunday night. "We don't worry when others say things like that." 
On Thursday, the day Strawberry signed with the Dodgers, reserve infielder Tim Teufel said many of the Mets questioned how badly Strawberry was hurt in the fi­nal month. Strawberry missed most of the final week of the season with what he said was a bad back. 
Newsday said Strawberry was asked in September about rumors that he had resumed drinking. 
"I'd be crazy to start drinking again," the paper reported Strawberry said at the time. "I've got a lot at stake. It could ruin my life." 
Mets general manager Frank Cashen said he had heard talk about Strawberry drinking, but said, "I never asked him di­rectly." 
''I'd heard second-or third­hand that he'd continued or hadn't stopped," Cashen said. The general manager said those rumors were not a "meaningful thing" in the Mets negotiations with Strawberry. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 

Classifieds 
Short blonde needs riders to and All I need are PS tixs 
NEAR N.D. Duplex available. I NEED 4 PENN ST GA's 
I need your help. from Atlanta for Christmas break. 
GA or stud
t bdrm-$265 CALLJOHN x4141
My high school teacher is a Can leave anytime after Monday 
call Matt x2474 2 bdrm-$360 
NOTICES 

graduate from Indiana University. of finals week. Please call 273­dep., references 
He's was pretty cool. 2078 Ask for Jeannie. 
616-483-9572. Need 2 Penn St. GA's. Call John 
TYPING AVAILABLE need penn st. stud tix (x1177).

287-4082 I need at least two tickets to the BRIGHTEN SOMEONE'S DAY 
x158t tomSingle 2-Room Apt. Cheap IU/ND basketball game for him with balloons from Irish Gardens!! 
15 min. Walking from Campus Need GA's tor PENN STATE. Call
$$FOR BOOKS and a friend. (G.A. or stud tix). 
I NEED 1 PENN ST STUD TIX 
Avail. Dec. I -May 31 Julie at 3505! 
Used Texts bought and sold Please .... Top 10 Quotes from Japan:
NICOLE 234-8882 
Bob x3234 We need LOTS of Pandora's Books 233-2342 
corner of ND ave and Howard Give me a call and we can make a 1a-Pulling an Ann Marie
NEED: 4 PENN ST GA'S!!II 
Penn St. GA'sl 

deal. Cris @4842 9--Holy Chowder! S.O. Dude! 
JARED X4246 Call Sara or Barb x4419
NEED A RESUME? 8--Hey Matt, Curry Rice Again? Give us a call at 239-7471 or stop 7-l'm sooo hungry!
PENN STATE TIX; need 1 I NEED PENN ST TIX 
by our office in I need FOUR PENN GA'S for rich 6-Chiisai Katsudo? Doozo Dare
student; call John x3372 
FOR SALE 
REBECCA X4329 

314 LaFortune Student Center. alum. Will pay good money. Kara? Dare Demo ii Desu Call Corey @ 1351 5--You Gotta Get it From 
We Need Penn St. GA's and 
OBSERVER TYPESETIING One-Way air ticket to/from Somewhere
Studs. Will pay big $$$$. 
NEED PENN STATE STUDENT 
South Bend, to/from Phila., 4--M.C. Anvil and His Sidekick 
Call Bob or Jeff at x2235 OR GA TICKET. CALL PAUL 
N.Y.C., or Wash.D.C.; good Need Hook-Up
AT 271-9950.

anytime except holidays; two 3-You Breed? 
\ 
$100, Mike 288-2083 Penn 2-Mochiron Oturo De Senzurio

LOST/FOUND 

NEED 4 GA PENN ST. TIX. CALL 
State Kakimasu
MATI t-800-223-6559. 
NEED 3 GA TIX FOR PENN ST.
>>>LOST<<< 89 Cavalier Sports Coupe GAs. 1-So, Is this like the Blind Capital 
CALL CHRIS x1067 
BRACELET OF GOLD LETIERS red-stereo-clean Jay of the World, or What?
HELP NEED TKTS All GAME 
which spell best offer 2729770 x2290 BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S I NEED USC TIXII CALL STEVE 
I LOVE YOU P.S. Hey lina, stay out of trouble 
CALL273-t364 273-9472
Obvious sentimental value I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S you goddess of Viruses. 
HAVE 4 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST REWARD FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE Remember, no one EXPECTED
BEST OFFER 271-0999 Need I Penn Stud 
S.O.S. We need Penn St. TIX 
288-7976 NAME GAME AND PRICE 273-Pearl Harbor! miss you, MO.
Amy xt343 Call Bob at xt170.
1364 LOST: A I need 2 Penn State GA's 
NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S. JOHN $$$$$ 
NEED PSU GA OR STUDENT 
Gold Nugget Bracelet on Fri. 11/2 Molly x4189 
271-0452. 
TIXsomewhere between P.W. and the Plane ticket to Boston for sale: I need 2 Penn State GA's TERRI4837

lake. Please return ·great L-11/20 R-11/25 Two need ride to NJ for 
NEED: PENN ST. GA's Call Katie x377t sentimental value! ....ONLY $190.****** Thanksgiving· we'll help
call TRACY @273-9033 I Need Penn St tix, studs and 
••••••REWARD'''''' Please call x4809 pay . Please call Alison 
$$$$$ GAs, call x350t
call Kate or Amy at 4550. X4831
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$N FOR SALE 
EEDED DESPERATELY! Two SELL YOUR PSU STUDS/GAS & 
X X X X X X X X X X
Lost -on 11/3 Dark red and black Magnavox Wordprocessor HAPPY 21 BIRTHDAY WALTER 
Penn State Student lix. Call Jon I'll LOVE YOU LIKE YOU'VE camera -35mm-dropped by the $375 nego. Just wanted to wish you a
Paul at X4tt5. NEVER BEEN LOVED. I'll ALSO 
REQUIRE 2 PENN ST GA'S 
Grotto or on the shuttle. If you Tom xt763 wonderful day and to say thanx tor
PAY YOU LIKE YOU'VE NEVER CALL JEFF@277-3998 
picked it up, please call Jenny always being you whether your 
Need 4 Penn State GA's call BEEN PAID 284-4055. PLANE TICKET TO ST. LOUIS days be sunny or rainy
at 2786; if not in leave message MIKE #1223 
xxxxxxxxxx
FOR SALE I II I ME LOST: On Nov. 6, a gold L 11/21 R 11/25 ps-hope this wasn't forceful 
NEED I Penn GA pendant, possibly on Stepan ONLY $140.00 
PARENTS NEED 2 PENN STATE Need 2 Penn St. GA's for visiting 
Amy xt343Fields, but it could be Call Tony Judge at 287-4232 

GAs! WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL grandparents who will spend BIG 
anywhere on campus. It's a and leave message. ATIENTION JUNIORS!!
RAJA AT x1678. $$$ 
I NEED Penn St. tickets 
dove with three circles Do you want to be in the Junior 
Call Pat x1900 Student and GAs 
around it, and it's about half FOR SALE II Crate G-60 guitar Parents Weekend Slide Show? 
•• WE NEED .. 
Call Mark at x2506 
an inch tall and half an inch amplifier ... mint condition, Please submit pictures to the
PENN STATE Need 2 Penn St GA's 
wide. Please call Elizabeth tremendous sound ..... give-away Student Activities Office· 3rd Floor
TIXI Call lim xt368 
I'll BUY YOUR PENN. ST.
at40971 price. 2 channels/built-in LaFortune.
X4079 STUD.
reverb/12"celestian speaker. A Nov 12-Nov 16th 
Need 4 Penn St GA's. 
TIX. CALL GREG Xt594
LOST: personal favorite of Yngwie (no pies accepted after Nov. 16)
Call x289t. 
2 footballs at Stepan field Malmsteen, the cornerstone of his Questions-Call Katie xt297
We need Penn State GA's after the FARLEY/LEWIS game sound .... make it yours today .... NOTE-no alcohol allowed in pies. 
Please call 284-5239 NEEDGA'S 
Help!! Need one Penn State GA 
on Nov. 4. One says NVA 5 and Call #1732 and ask for Scott or Thanks !I!
PENN & USC tor Poor Relative. 
the other says Jay Shrader. Alex Lifeson. 
FOR SALE: 2 PENN STATE 272-9770 
Call Kevin 1589

Call Kate @x4071 . Call or write to:
MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS. Jon "Lion Loser" Pensa 
CALL 277-9869. PLEASE HELP! Gorgeous Brown 1980 Custom 320 E. Beaver Ave., Apt. 304 I lost my RED PLAID 
..REWARD.. 

I NEEEEED PENN ST. GA'S ........Heeeelllllppp! , ..... 
Dodge Van State College. Pa. 16801
NEED 4 PENST GA TIX-YOU JILL x 4852
UMBRELLA on Sunday I 0/21 Support your local Prof · sell
New clutch and muffler (814)-867· 8477 anytime 
NAME PRICE-IF
in Hesburgh library. VERY high 2 GA's for Penn State to him.
Interior completely carpeted Tell him:
TOGETHER=MORE $$ $$$$ Needed $$$$
sentimental value (plus, call239-7831 or 234-1972.
Sunroof and rear ceiling vent 1) There is mystique@ N.D. 
#1567 Penn State Std.'s and GA.'s 
it is unique and I would Slant-6 engine and body in great 2) Joe Paterno is a nerd

Ed@ 277-8974 or Jon X4022
definitely recognize it!) Please call Need Penn St GA's 
shape 3) That the "Irish" will crush 
2983 with info Sharon 284-5089 
Highway miles the "lions" 
LARGE MARGE needs 2 G.A.s 
NQA. I really need my umbrella! 

and 2 studs for PENN ST. 284­
..REWARD.. Need t Penn. State GA. Stan 
Call Mark x2506 JUNIORS
5201 Need tix tor PENN ST. GAME. 
2742 JUNIORS

Will pay anything!!! Please Call 4 Penn St Stud lix for sale Best Kerry at 284-5073 and leave JUNIORS 
LOST LOST A brown leather NEED PENN TIX 
offer X4823,4819 message!!!
FOSSIL WATCH with a brown 4 GA's & 4 STUD.$$ 
I have FOUR USC lix Tickets are on sale now tor the granite face was lost in La Fortune MARI0#2440
Julie at x2950 class trip to CHICAGO.
Need two Penn St. GAs and one on Nov. 6 sometime between 8pm 
r---------ONLY $10 
stud tix. Darrell 283-3302. 
and t2am. I would really like to WANTED: 2-4 GEN. ADM. 
Need One Stud. Ticket tor 
get it back because it was a gift TICKETS AT OR NEAR COST TC


TICKETS I 

The trip will be Thurs., Nov. 29.
PLEASE HELP Penn St. call MATI x2052
from my Mom!I I'd really N.D.·PENN.ST. CALL MIKE AT Buses leave ND at 4:30 and will PLEASE ME
appreciate it if you would please 288-7361 OR 256-0969. 
Need $$$?Sell leave Chicago at
PLEASE Icall Karen 284·5023. 
your ga's to all 10:30.
I HAVE RELATIVES COMING, NEED PENN ST. TIX -2 GAs & 
I need 3 PENN ST tix!l 1332home games. 
AND NEED 4 PENN. ST. GA'S. I 3 STUDS · or 5 GAs Call tom xt597. hi theBR
WILL PAY LOTS OF CASH FOR Call Kathleen x2607
LOST, RED LOOSELEAF need peon stu/ga
THEM. FLO x 1696
BINDER jill2633
TOP $for Your Ga tix to all home The Saint Mary's Finance and IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL games call 277 ·9357 ...THREE beautiful young ladies Economics Clubs are sponsoring
BIG brothers coming and I need 
234-7156 I NEED 2 PENN ST. STUD TIX. 
Patty are visiting me next weekend. a trip to Detroit, Ml on Nov.t5.
Penn State tickets! .3 GAs! $$$
ACADEMIC LIFE AT STAKE! CALL STACY 271-1953 
Please sell me your Penn St. tixl They will tour Manufacturer's
Caryn 289-9417 
WINDCHILL National Bank and Ford Motor Co. 
Kevin 289-7221 Best time to call: 5·7pm. 
I need 2 Penn State GAs. 
FROSTBITE Anyone is welcome. For further 


WANTED 
x271B

NOV17 info, call Ann Volz at 271-1743 or
NEED PENN ST. GA'S PENN ST Jen Strachan at 273-9310.
CALL MARK OR KEVIN 
Please: I need 2 Penn St. GA's for 
HELP WANTED: Earn up to ilitUO Need Penn St Stud & GAs
Need I say more? 

289-5542 seriously depressed relative! Joe 
J. wkly. Easy work, FT/PT, start Todd Xt724
Ryan need 2 stud tix Sean P. Dennehy
Xt599

immediately. Work at home. For x1048 NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S Tonite at 12 midnight welcomes in 
info send SASEto: Need t USC ticket-X3731 the 21st year of his existence­CALL JIM @1750 VicKorp, P.O. Box 750, Notre finally!!
Need 2 G.A. and 4 student tix Dame, IN 46556. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$, NEED 2+ PSU GA's tor Penn State 

Wealthy Physician to Pay 2+ USC TIX 


PERSONALS
Call Maureen 284-5402 Earn $300 to $500 per week Big Bucks for PENN STATE CALL PETE 288-5869 
I 

.....,...
Reading Books at home. Call G.A.'s or STUDS 

.., ..,...,
'How to Judge Any Bottle
1·615-473-7440 Ext. B 340. 

x 1935 ask tor Alex I Need 2 Penn St studs. Bill Adoption: A caring, devoted 
I NEED TWO PENN STATE G.A.'s 
of Wine In 15 Minutes', 16
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

X1583 professional couple wishes to give 
CALL STEVE AT 273-9471. 
page manual, 1 0 years re­
[lj
newborn all the advantages of a
FOR RENT 

I NEED PENN ST & Tenn HEY! I'M IN DESPERATE NEED 
search, Invest In yourself,
loving, secure home. Expenses tixs.272-6306 OF PENN STATE TICKETS­

send $3 to: Flexor Industries 
I REALLY NEED 2 PENN ST. paid. Call Joan/John collect (212) studs or GA's. Will pay BIG BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
Perryton Parkway Pampa TX.•. ,.......,.....,..,..,..-r---.~......-~ . BUCKS. Call Margaret #2286 
219·291-7153 G.A.s. CALL X1479, VINCE 496-0661. 
, 
-----~~'-'-~ .• ....•.' ·" ·"" ." .. ·' .. " ".• ..• .• ·" .• ~· .• 

Monday, November 12, 1990 

The Observer page 15 

Women's swim team downs Ball State by four 
By BECKY WOOD Sports Writer 

Thn womnn's swim team ral­lied to a 152-148 win over Ball State this past Saturday at horne, marking Notre Dame's first win against Ball State after five straight losses. 
On December 8, 1985, Ball State beat the Irish women 71­69 in their opening meet at Holfs Aquatic Center. Saturday's meet was another close one · coming down to tl'fe last relay whnn Notre Dame needed first and third placn finishes to win tht~ ment by four points. 
Thn Irish pulled it out by swimming two aggressive re­lays and refused to let Ball Statn bnat them to the last wall. It took five years for Notre Dame to catch up to that open· ing meet, and defeat the team that won the first women's meet at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The Irish win marked a "big improvement" over last year's 182-111 loss. 
"It was a total team win, which began by the team believing it was possible, and by giving a full team effort throughout the meet," said Coach Tim Welsh .. 
Although the Irish were be­hind by 14 points after the first two events. they cut the gap to two points after the 200 free and 100 backstroke. Four events later the Irish fell behind by 14 points, but went after Ball State and took the lead, 108-99 three events later in the 200 breaststroke. 
The lead score continued to shift and, with only two events to go, the women fell behind again by 18 points. But the Irish rallied. Senior Amy Tri came from behind in the 200 Individual Medley to seal a 1-2­3 sweep, cutting Ball State's lead to five points and making a 1-3 relay win in the last event possible. 
A total team effort showed in the two Irish 400 free relays. Freshman Alicia Feehery and senior Christy Moston anchored both Irish relays and swam ex­cellent races to give the Irish the winning combination for victory. A 1-4 finish for the Irish would have tied the meet and a 2-3 finish would have lost it. The first place relay, Colette LaForce, Kim Steel, Christy VanPatten and Feehery swam a university record time of 
3:36.67 in the 400 free relay. 
The meet against Ball State climaxed a full week of prepa­ration, and is the last dual meet prior to the National Catholic Championships Nov. 29-Dec. 1 at Notre Dame. 
The Irish and Ball State evenly split first places in a 16 event program, and the Irish also claimed six seconds and 13 thirds. The Irish displayed a "total team" with balance, depth, confidence and aggres­siveness. 
"This is a big step for our women's team; and an excellent lead into the National Catholic Meet," said an excited Welsh. 
Although the women swam without Tanya Williams, who is jokingly referred to as "lethal weapon No. 1 ," many of the Irish women stepped up to a higher level of performance. 
"The theme for the past week of training was step up; step up to a higher level," said Welsh. 
Freshman Kristin Heath, re­cruited from swimming power Germantown Academy (Philadelphia), was the only 
triple winner for the Irish with 
firsts in the 200 fly, 200 breast 
and 200 I.M. 
Freshman Karen Keeley had 

outstanding distance swims in 
one of the meet's most difficult 
3-event combinations: 1000 and 
500 freestyle and 200 fly. Dou­
ble winners included Feehery in 
the 200 and 100 freestyle and 
Shana Stephens in the 100 and 
200 backstrokes. 
All flyers, !Ieath, Keeley, 

Chrissy Ciletti and Jean Kelly, 
and backstrokers, Stephens, 
Kay Broderick, and Tri, swam 
season bests. The breaststro­
kers, Heath, Shannah Mathers, 
Tracie O'Connell and Callie Bo­
lattino, also swam season bests. 
Across the board the women 

swam faster than last fall, im­.portant and exciting facts for the next three weeks of Na­tional Catholic Meet prepara­
tions. 

It's Alumni and Off-Campus in the IH Men's football finals 
By RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 

Off-Campus and Alumni ad­vanced Sunday to the finals of the men's interhall football championship. 
OFF-CAMPUS 19 GRACE 7 

In an evenly-played contest, 011'-Campus accomplished both its objectives necessary for the Crime to defeat Grace. 
First, Off-Campus scored early to gain the confidence that it could score on a Grace dt~fnnse that had shut out all of its narlit~r opponents. After llnlrns blocked a Grace punt at the Grace six, the Crime pum:htHI it in the end zone on Phil "Packer" Couri's four-yard run. 
Grace eounten1d quickly after a Crime pnnalty on its next Sllries. Jim Kosslnr found Mike Kamradt on a four-yard touchdown pass. Bob Sweeney added the PAT, and at halftime Grace led 7-6. 
After Grace punted to start the second half, Off-Campus took the lead for good when Bob Allard threw to Pat Murphy for a 20-yard touchdown. Bob Topel kicked the PAT. 
"The line played very well to­day," said Allard (2-4, 23 yds, 1 TD). "Especially on that touch­down pass, the line blocked very well. I had plenty of time to step up there and throw it right in there." 
Objective number two, to be the beneficiar.y of the big break, came when the Crime's Mike Deely forced Joe Minadeo to fumble as Grace drove for the tying score. Antwon Lark re­covernd at the Off-Campus 41. 
Brian Doherty iced Off-Cam­pus' victory with a 43-yard touchdown run on the ensuing possession to give the Crime a 19-7 lead with 4:30 remaining. 
ALUMNI 24 SORIN 0 

Alumni dominated every facet of the game Sunday in trounc­ing the Rockne League champi­ons. The Dogs had 127 total yards of offense to Sorin's -4, and forced four Otter turnovers. 
"We got beat off the ball: offensively, defensively, and special teams," said Otter coach Kevin Kramer. " We were ready to play today, but they were just a better team today." 
Coming into the game, Alumni felt it had to establish the running game in order to win. It accomplished its goal as Dave Ludwig gained 86 yards on 14 carries. 
"We were able to get good field position, and then punched it in with the run," said Dog coach Paul Szyperski. "Our line did what it had to, and our running backs came through." 
Sorin's problems started on its first possession. A bad snap on a punt attempt gave Alumni excellent field position at the Otter 23. The Dogs took full advantage as Pete Parten ran 20 yards around left tackle for the touchdown. Ludwig ran for the PAT. 
The Otters did nothing on their next drive, and Alumni re­gained the ball at midfield. After Jim Passinault hit Parten for seven yards, Ludwig swept right, turned the corner and ran 43 yards for the touch­down. The PAT was another Passinault-to-Parten comple­tion. 
"The line gave me a Jot of time today," said Passinault (6­9, 45 yds, 0 int). "We pretty much threw when we had to because our running game was working real well. That was the key to our offense." 
Alumni's defense gave Sorin quarterback Kevin Kramer fits. Kramer went 1-15 with four interceptions, two in the second quarter to Parten as the Otters tried to regroup. lie was hurt by the fact that the running game gained zero net yards. 
"On defense, we blitzed a couple more people than we usually do," said Szyperski. 
In the third quarter, another special teams mistake cost the Otters any chance to get back into the gam{) as Kramer's punt hit in the back ol one of his teammates and rolled into the end zone, where Justin Politi recovered for the touchdown. Ludwig addnd the PAT. 
Scoreboard 
NFL STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS NBA STANDINGS 
Men's lnterhall Football Playoffs
AMERICAN CONFERENCE WALES CONFERENCE EASTERN CONFERENCEEool Patrick Dlvlalon Allanlic Dlvlalonw L T Pet. PF PA 

w L T AI<FGA 
w L Pel. GB 


mous 17
Buffalo 8 1 0 .889 274 150 

NY Ranger~~ 13 6 1 27 82 51 BostonMiami 8 t 0 .889 192 96 
4 1 .800

Philadelphia 11 8 22 710 65 New York 3 2 .600 1N.Y. Jets 4 6 0 .400 178 216 Washington 10 9 0 20 81 60 Miami 2 2 .500 1112Indianapolis 3 6 0 .333 125 196 New Jer11ey 9 8 1 19 65 60 Philadelphia 2 3 .400 
,
New England 1 8 0 .111 130 257 2
Pittsburgh 8 7 2 18 75 65 Washington 
1 3 .250 2 112

NY lslande111 7 
10 0 14 51 68 New Jen~ey 1 4 .200 3Central Cincinnati 5 4 0 .556 212 225 Adame Dlvlalon Central DlvlolonPittsburgh 5 4 0 .556 171 147 Boston 10 5 3 23 56 58 Atlanta 4 1 .800
Houston 4 5 0 .444 194 169 Montreal 10 7 2 22 61 57 Milwaukee 4 1 .800

Cleveland 2 7 0 .222 128 235 Buffalo 7 6 4 18 58 50 Detroit 

3 2 .600 1

Hartford 5 9 3 13 41 56 Indiana 3 2 .600 
1

WHt Quebec 3 13 3 g 49 78 Chicago 3 3 .500 
1112 Cleveland
LA Aaldera 6 3 0 .667 170 137 

Kansas City 5 4 0 .556 192 138 3 3 .500 1112
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Charlotte
San Diego 6 6 0 .600 214 163 2 4 .333 2 112
Norrlo Dlvlolon 
Seattle 4 5 0 .444 175 182 w L T AIGFGA WESTERN CONFERENCEDenver 3 6 0 .333 197 224 Chicago 12 6 2 26 66 45 Mldweat Dlvlalon 

St. Louis 12 4 1 25 61 43 
..
w L Pet. GB
NATIONAL CONFERENCE Detroit 7 8 3 17 63 74 Dallas 

4 1 .BOO
Eaal Minnesota 4 11) 4 12 47 65 San Antonio 3 1 .750 1/2w L T Pel. PF PA Toronto 2 16 1 5 49 94 Houston 

3 3 .500 1 112 Minnesota
N.Y. Glanta II 0 0 tall 226 110 
3 3 .500 1112
Washington 5 3 0 .825 185 141 Smythe Dlvlalon Utah 2 2 

.500 1 112
Philadelphia 4 4 0 .500 1911 172 Los Angeles 12 4 1 25 78 51 Denver 0 6 .000 

4112Dallas 3 7 0 .300 125 204 Calgary 12 7 1 25 86 62 Orlando 0 .000

6 4 112
Phoenix 2 7 0 .222 117 240 

Vancouver 9 9 0 18 54 81 Winnipeg g
7 2 16 58 58 Pacific DlvlalonCentral Edmonton 2 11 62 39 51 Portland 4 0 1.000
Chicago 8 1 0 .889 2211 126 Phoenix 3 1 .750 

1
Green Bay 4 5 0 .444 176 196 Salurday'a Gomea Seattle ·3 1 .750 

1
Talfll<! Bay 4 6 0 .400 170 243 Pittsburgh 3, Boston 3, tie Golden State 4 .667

2 1
Detroit 3 6 0 .333 213 237 N.Y. Islander~~ 5, Calgary 1 LA Clippers 

2 3 .400 2112
Mlnnaaota 3 6 0 .333 194 188 Philadelphia 5, Quebec 2 

LA Lake111 1 2 .333 2112Buffalo 4, Washington 2 Sacramento 0 5 .000 4112
Waat 

Montreal 3, New Jeraey 1 San Fran 8 0 0 tall 222 144 
Chicago 5, Toronto 1 Saturday"• GameaNew Orleans 4 5 0 .444 171 164 Hartford 3, Minnesota 2, OT Cleveland 104, Philadelphia 88 Atlanta 3 6 0 .333 232 251 St. Louis 6, Detroit 1 Miaml120, Indiana 105LA Rams 3 6 0 .333 198 258 Los Angeles 7. Edmonton 4 Boston 105, New Jen~ey 91 
Chicago 105. Charlotte 86 Sundoy"a Gam~~• Sunday'• Gamea San Antonio 111, Houston 110Chicago 30. Atlanla 24 Montreal 5, Ouobec 4, OT 

Phoenix 173. Denver 143 Philadelphia 2. Vancouver 0 
Indianapolis 13, New England 10 Atlanta 112, LA Cllppe111 94Miamj 17, New Yoril Jets 3 Boston 5, Washington 3 New York 93, Sacramento 88 Minnesota 17. Detroit 7 Calgary 4, N.Y. Range111 4, tie Golden State 117, Seattle 100Buffalo 45, Phoenix 14 Winnipeg 3, Chicago 3, tie Seattle 17, KanBM City 16 Sunday'a GomesNew Orleans 35, Talfll<! Bay 7 Mondoy'a Game Late Games Not IncludedSan Diego 19. Denver 7 Winnipeg at Toronto. 7:35p.m. 

Minnesota 108, Orlando 81Green Bay 211. Los Angeles Aalders 16 Houston 110, Utah 90 New York Glanta 31, Los Angeles Rams 7 Tueaday'o Gam11a LA Clippers at Portland, (n)San Francisco 24. Dallas 6 

N.Y. Ranger~~ at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m. 
New York at LA Lake111. (n)OPEN DATES: Clnclnnall, CI9V91and, Montreal at New Jen~ey. 7:45 p.m. 

Houston, Pittsburgh Pittsburgh at Minnesota, 8:35 p.m. 

Monday'a Game Quebec at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 
Washington at New Je111ey, 7:30p.m.
Monday'• Goma Washington a! Philadelphia, 9 p_.m. 
• • • •' r ',.' 
\ • . ' • l ~ I II' I o 


• 

--~----·~--­
page 16 The Observer Monday, November 12, 1990 

Fullback Rod Culver eludes a Tennessee defender and scores an Irish touchdown on a 59 yard pass from quarterback Rick Mirer. Culver caught three passes for 86 yards and ran 10 times for 47 yards. 


Ricky Watters pauses after his second Irish touchdown. The senior captain took the ball in from the 1 0-yard line late in the fourth quarter. 
r 

Irish strong safety Greg Davis bashes into Tennessee receiver Vince Moore as Moore catches another Kelly pass, this time for 16 yards. 
-
' ~~ .:l y ·t··· ~..... ­
if* 

%. 

Tennessee' s Vince Moore makes a four-yard reception. Vols receivers caught a record 35 passes on 
... 
Saturday for 399 yardS". 

------~--------------------------.-----------~----~--------------~~--------------------~--~--~----~~---­
Monday, November 12, 1990 
The Observer page 17 

~~l 







·The Contest 
Simply fill out the OUi'iWOrd puzzle ~low. All the an~wers are in~AWeNews~whkhis0011g~toallcbmrrxmsmTuerlly. Fillin~amwarlpuzzieaml:xinghwithyoo to~ PnxlualnntxluaXl1 Evmtm lhmdly, ~15, 1Wl. All enlriei miN lx! lffrived IJy 8:00 JXll mNolern00-15, 1Wl. Yoor amliycrnp:tec1amwad puzzle Mlmteryoo intoadrawing fer affiEE M!dntatt axnp.llffwooh CNer $3,ml. 
GMmtml 

I. All entrmt~ must~ current students, faculty or staff at the University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College or Holy Cross College. 
2. 
Only one entry per student. Entries must ~ filled out correctly to win. Multiple entries will mandate immediate disqualification. 

3. 
Entries must~ turned in between 7:00 pm and 8:00 pm November IS, I<J,Xl at Theodore's. 


4. You mw;t ~present to win. 

DowN: ACROSS: 
2. 
1.44 megabyte drive. 1. New multi-user laser printer. 

3. 
RAM S. Allows multiple application to he open. 

4. 
Allows only one application to he open. 6. Afixed storage device.


I I 
8. New Macintosh capable of emulating an 7. System in which the computer and Apple lle. monitor are separate.
•

9. Color Monitor. 10. Company that will marker HyperCard 2.0.
•

11. 
Company that developed the Macintosh 13. The new Macintosh II computer. 

line of computers. 14. Chairman of Apple Computer, Inc. 

12. 
Version 2.0 was just released. 17. ADB. 


•• • 0 • •
15. 
Abig byte 0,000 K). 20. City where Apple Computer, Inc. is 

16. 
Type of an Apple. based. 

17. 
_High Resolution RGB Monitor. 22. The new lowest-priced Macintosh. IH. Small Computer Systems Interface. 23. Place to be on Thursday, November 15. 


19. Produced Word and Excel. 24. This file contains the operating 
21. Recently released XPress 3.0. ' instructions for Macintosh computers. 
•••••1• • •••••••••• 
The Prize: 
AFnEMacintah 
W01th Qer$3,(XXJ 
The Event 
7burgjay, N 15, lWJ 
TlxrxloreS ­


lWpm-9.Wpm 
At the even~ Apple CDmputer, Inc. will ~ intrcxlucing and demonstrating its three new pnxlucts: the Macintosh Oassic, the Macintosh LC and the Macintosh Ilsi. Software vendors, including Microsoft, Claris, MacroMind, Am and Quark, will ~ present to demonstrate their pnxiucts. There will also~ exhibits showG~Sing HyperCard 2.0, musidMIDI and multimedia applications for the Macintosh. The drawing for the free Macintosh SF/~ worth over $3,00l will~ held at 8:~ pm. 
'. 


Apple Computer, Inc. 

, 

----------~-------~--------~----~ 
Monday, November12, 1990 
page 18 The Observer 
\... 
Bennett, Ellery lead Irish in gclme 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball game held its annual Blue-Gold game yesterday at the Joyce ACC in its final tune­up before Thursday's season opener versus Fordham. 
The Irish played for 30 min­utes, with the Gold team fmally prevailing by a score of 63-62. They played zone defense for the first 20 minutes, with the Gold squad taking a 53-48 lead. Notre Dame then put the scoreboard back at 0-0 and played 10 minutes running with a man-to-man defense. The Blue team came out on top 14­10 in that segment of the scrimmage. . 
The beginning of the contest was a first team versus second team affair, as senior Kevin Ellery led freshmen Jon and Joe Ross, Carl Cozen, Brooks Boyer and sophomore walk-on Matt Adamson against the Irish starters. By the end of the scrimmage, though, all of the starters had played some time with the Gold team. 
Junior point guard Elmer Bennett led all scorers with 24 points, while Ellery tallied 23, including six three-point field goals. Junior Daimon Sweet added 19. 
Forward Jon Ross and guard Brooks Boyer were the fresh­men who did the most damage for the Blue squad. Ross scored 14 points and added 10 re; bounds, while Boyer added 11 points, including three trifectas. and dished out five assists. 
Proceeds from the game ben­
efited Logan Center and the 
Neighborhood Study Help Pro­gram. 
The Irish say they are ready for Thursday's opener. They will host Fordham at 7:30 p.m. in the JACC in the first round of the Dodge NIT tournament. 
"We have been ready," junior forward LaPhonso Ellis says. "I thought the objective of the_ game tonigQt was to have a • good time because it was for charity. We went out there had a few smiles, and scored a few buckets. The next three days will be a mental game for us in preparation for Thursday." 
"Hey, it's my last time around," Ellery said. "I want to get everything in this year. We're going to be ready for Fordham. That's one of our goals. We want to take things one game at a time." 
Robinson's treys guide Blue 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

There were plenty of new faces on the court, but the look of the Notre Dame women's basketball team remained pretty much the same as Karen Robinson lead the Blue team to a come-from-behind 38-34 vic­tory over the Gold in Sunday's intersquad game. 
Robinson, one of three senior captains, lead all scorers with 19 points, including three straight three point field goals that brought her squad back from a ten point deficit. 
"It took us a while to get into the flow offensively," said .Robinson, whose team fell be­hind quickly, 11-4 and 14-6, be­fore her third trifecta tied it at 
22. "I hadn't been shooting in the beginning because I didn't feel ready and I wanted to get everyone else into the game. Then I realized we had to get back into it." 
While the Blue team was sleeping early on, their Gold counterparts were shining. Lead by casptain Krissi Davis, who had 10 points and five re­bounds on the night, the Gold took advantage of some early Blue turnovers to jump out with a substantial lead. 
Head Coach Muffet McGraw was less than pleased at Notre Dame's performance overall. 
"I think we have a lot of work to do (before this Friday's ex­hibition with the Latvian Na­tional team)," said McGraw. "We need to work on the fun­damentals." 
McGraw pointed to a high 
number of turnovers, missed shots and fouls as problems the Irish will have to clean up in the next week. While she attributed some of the sloppy play to nerves, she felt the 24 overall turnovers, 39 percent shooting by the Gold squad and 23 fouls needed to be repaired. 
"We just made a lot of bad decisions," she said. 
McGraw complemented the returning starters for taking control of their squads. While she said none of Notre Dame's five freshmen will vie for a starting role at the beginning of the season, she expects some of them to challenge for those positions by January. 
Two of these freshmen, Sherri Orlosky and Kristin Knapp each scored six points for the Gold. 
Every member of the Gold squad contributed to the score. 

Women's CC ends year with 15th place showing 
By RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 

Every team dreads ending the season on a poor note and unfortunately the Notre Dame Women's cross country team did just that. The Irish finished a distant fifteenth in Saturday's NCCA Region IV District Meet at West Lafayette, Indiana. 
The meet was dominated by number two-ranked Indiana, led by the nation's best runner, Michelle Dekkers, who· blitzed the course in a time of 16:57.7 to finish first. Indiana also had runners finish fourth and sixth overall, which allowed them to capture the meet with a low score of 51 points. 
Michigan, Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota, all from the Big Ten, rounded out the top five teams. Wisconsin's Susie Favor finished second in the meet behind Dekkers with a time of 17:08. 
There were no highlights for the Irish, who all ran poorly. Senior captain Terese 
Deb Fitzgerald was second on the team with seven points. while freshman Katura Jones added three and point guard Coquese Washington put in two. Washington also had six assists, more than any other Irish player. 
In contrast, the Blue side re­lied on Robinson and the resur­gent Comilita Haysbert, back after sitting out the second half of last year's season for aca-Lemanski was the first Irish to cross the line, finishing 66th with a time of 19:13.36. MCC championship hero Lisa Gorski came in next for Notre Dame with a 19:19.63, earning her a 72nd place finish. Notre Dame's point total of 400 was eight times as great as that of first place Indiana. 
"We ran real poorly. It's re­ally disappointing. We didn't have anyone run up to their capabilities," said Irish coach Tim Connelly. 
The rest of the Notre Dame finishers were Amy Blaising (19:27.61-79th), Renee Kaptur (19:34. 73-89th). Patty Villarreal (19:38.74­94th). Diana Bradley (19:43. 97 -98th). and Sarah Esterline (20:12.79-121st). 
The most surprising finish for the Irish was that of Bradley, who has been one of the top runners. She com­plained of cramps during the race. 
"I've told them if they want to be where the men are, they've got to start competing in meets like this. They can't just beat teams in the MCC," said Connelly. 
demic reasons. 

Haysbert had 13 points, many of them coming near the end of the 20 minute scrim­mage. She combined with Robinson on a lethal press and fast break that forced numer­ous turnovers and destroyed any chance of a Gold win. 
Tri-captain Sara Liebscher, who is recovering form foot surgery, missed the game and will be out for another two or three weeks. 

ANTH 388 01 2553 delete cross-listing with Engl 415 ANTH 411 01 2299 delete cross-listing with Soc 442 ARHI 464 01 2317 T H 09:30-10:45 time chg ARHI 564 01 2318 T H 09:30-10:45 time chg BIOS 102A 01 0296 Freshman Only BIOS 102B 01 0297 Freshman Only BLST 419A 01 2776 cancelled CE 465 01 0436 T H 02:45-04:00 time chg
DAR .~ill now distinguish between course prerequisites and 
CHEG 538 01 3052 T H 11:00-12:15 time chg
re~rictions based on college, major, or level. 
CHEM 196 01 2348 Math 126 is NOT a Co-Req. CHEM 202 01 0493 Permission RequiredIf you do not meet a course prer~quisite, DART will say: CHEM 202 02 0494 Permission Required "Sorry <course name> requires a prerequisite. 11 CHEM 224L 06 0497 delete cross-listing 
CHEM 243 01 0500 Chern 223 or Chern 235 is the Pre-Req. COTH 369 01 3254 Coth &Arnst Majors Only
If you do not meet a college, major, or level restriction, 
.-COTH 493B 01 0558 Coth 492 is NOT a Pre-Req . 
DART will say: 11Sorry, you do not meet student restrictions. CSE 361 01 3086 M~F 11:15-12:05 time chgPlease refer to the cooments column in the DART book. 11 EASC 102 all Sec Freshman Only EASC 114 all Sec Freshman Only ECON 123 all Sec Freshman Only
You should also refer to course changes that are published 
ECON 340 01 2365 Permission Required
in the Observer. 
EE 361 01 0660 M~F 11:15-12:05 time chg EE 498A 01 2 credit hours EE 598K 01 3265 T H 09:30-10:45 time/day chg FS 180 all Sec Freshman Only GE 106 02 0817 M~F 10:10-11:00 time chg GOVT 141 01 1029 Freshman Only
-
HIST 377 01 3184 raise maximum to 75 HPS 680 01 2773 ~ 02:45-05:15 time chg liPS 671 01 3232 cross-listed Law 671 &reduce max to 5 LA~ 671 01 2972 cross-listed liPS 671 &reduce max to 25
DART COURSES ADDED LA~ 688 01 3291 Permission Required CE 498 03 3297 Advanced Oxidation Processes var. cr. hrs. MARK 374 01 2405 Mark 350 or Mark 370 is the Pre-Req. EE 599R 20 3298 Thesis Direction var. cr. hrs. MARK 374 02 2273 Mark 350 or Mark 370 is the Pre-Req. ENGL 109 40 3300 Comp. &Lit. 3.0 cr. hrs., M~F 09:05-09:55 MATH 662 01 2960 M~F 10:10-11:00 time chg ENGL 109 41 3301 Comp. &Lit. 3.0 cr. hrs., MWF 01:15-02:05 MBA 563 01 1249 M~ 01:15-02:30 time chg ENGL 301 01 3299 Fiction ~riting var. cr. hrs., T H 01:15-02:30; MBA 627 01 1261 MBA 622 is the Pre-Req. 
Permission Required MBA 629 01 1263 MBA 622 is the Pre-Req. GSC 227 01 3166 ~omen in Music 3 cr. hrs., T H 09:30-10:45 MBA 629 02 1264 MBA-622 is the Pre-Req. GSC 430 01 3304 ~omen in the Christn Tradition 3 cr. hrs., MGT 231 01 1332 T H 09:30-10:45 time chg 
T H 09:30-10:45 MGT 475 01 1350 T H 11:00-12:15 time chg MBA 614 01 3303 Financial Statements 3 cr. hrs., M~ 01:15-02:30 MSCI 112 05 1456 ~ 02:20-03:10 time chg MBA 691 01 3302 Real Estate Finance 3 cr. hrs., M~F 12:15-01:05 PHYS 110 01 1665 Cancelled 
cross-listed with FIN 371 PHYS 116 01 2918 M~F 1010-11:00 time chg
' 
MUS 227 01 2761 ~omen in Music 3 cr. hrs., T H 09:30-10;45 PSY 341T 01 2872 Psy 341 is a Co-Req. PHIL 203A 01 3296 Informal Logic 3 cr. hrs., T H 04:15-05:30 PSY 341T 02 2873 Psy 341 is a Co-Req.
·-· 
No Business Students until 11/30 PSY 342 01 1820 Psy 342T is a Co-Req.
PSY 388 01 1832 Comput in Psych Rsrch Eductn 3 cr. hrs. PSY 342 02 2874 Psy 342T is a Co-Req. PSY 342T 01 2876 Psy 342 is a Co-Req. PSY 342T 02 2877 Psy 342 is a Co-Req. PSY 342T 03 2878 Psy 342 is a Co-Req. 
PSY 396A 01 2882 3 credit hours 

ROSP 212 01 0855 Permission Required 102 01 2066 Soc 102T is a Co-Req. 122 02 0838 10:10-11:00 time chg 279 01 3034 Permission Required 421 01 Developing Business in America title chg 





RAND PENIN .. 
TODAY, NOVEMBER 12 
()()()()()()()()()()()() 
· NOT.RE D-AME 

()()()()()()()()()()()() 
' 

ICOME and RENT your favorite F~ICKS I 

DARE TO 
.  
B  ii ,? E,,~,·· A:;:.K:~r.:~=R p,~:~]:::~:A::~\ R:~t~_:r~­I=ili~~ Et:,·. T~::::: A't,L::;:, S:::.... .  
WITH  

CRUISE ROBERTS 

~HOURS: 4 PM to 11 PM $2.00 per movie 
: 1THE NEW MOVIE RENTAL SHOP IN TilE BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE ~ 
~--~--~-~-·-·-·-~·-·~-~ ~ ._. ~~---.·-·-.~~--~---~---~-~---·~--~~~---·~-·-·-·-·~~---·---~--~-~-·-·-·---·~-·--~~-·-·----~~-·-·-·-·-·~. ~~ ~ 
... ,. . . . .
. 

I

I Irish still No. 1 in poll, 
last possession, with Kelly and "I wasn't mentally ready to Harper combining on a 23-'yard play, so I went back to the fun­
touchdown to burn Smith with damentals and kept remember­

Comeback 
1:44 left, making the score 34-ing how to react." 

Colorado moves up 
continued from page 24 

29. But this time Smith could Credit Smith for impressing 
Monday, November12, 1990
page 20 The Observer 
By RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame maintained its top ranking in this week's Na­tional Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll released Sunday. 
The Irish received 21 out of a possible 25 first-place votes and compiled 495 points after their 34-29 victory over Tennessee. Colorado, 41-22 winners over Oklahoma State, got three first­place votes and 4 7 5 total points. Miami, idle this week, placed third with 419 points, while Georgia Tech, 6-3 winners over Virginia Tech, re­ceived the other first-place vote and finished fourth. 
Texas made the biggest jump in this week's rankings. The Longhorns knocked off Houston 4.5-24, and were rewarded by the voters, moving from 14th to sixth. The Cougars fell the furthest of any team, from third to 13th. Florida climbed five spots from 12th to seventh after trouncing Georgia 38-7, the largest margin of victory in the 68-year history of the series. 
Last week's No. 2, Washing­ton, fell six spots to eighth after losing to UCLA 25-22 on a last-
The National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll, with last week's rankings, first-place votes in parentheses, records, and total points. 
1  (1)  Notre Dame (21)  8-1  495  
2  (4)  Colorado (3)  9-1-1  475  
3  (5)  Miami, Fla.  6-2  419  
4  (7)  Georgia Tech (I)  8-Q-1  396  
5  (9)  Brigham Young  8-1  393.5  
6  (14)  Texas  7-1  357  
7  (12)  Florida  8-1  345  
8  (2)  Washington  8-2  321  
9  (8)  Virginia  8-1  296  
10 (13)  Florida State  7-2  262  
II (II)  Nebraska  8-1  221.5  
12 (6)  Iowa  7-2  221  
13 (3)  Houston  8-1  214  
14 (10)  Tennessee  5-2-2  172.5  
15 (16)  Mississippi  8-1  142.5  
16 (20)  Michigan  6-3  115  
17 (18)  Clemson  8-2  100  
18 (19)  Penn State  7-2  94  
19 (20)  Louisville  9-1-1  54  
20 (nr)  OhijState  6-2-1  50  

Others receiving votes: Illinois 29, USC 28, Auburn 17, Michigan State 13, Califoinia 5.5, Alabama 3, Oklahoma 3, S. Mississippi 2.5, Colorado State 2, Wyoming 2, San jose State I. ­
Schools participating in this week's poll: Cornell, Duke, Oregon State, Penn State, Colorado, Michigan, Miami, Ball State, 
Penn, Penn State, Notre Dame, !USC, Alabama, Indiana, Illinois, Purdue, Columbia, Texas, Nebraska, Kansas, 
Kentucky, Wisconsin, Arizona, Brown, Syracuse. 
guess where the pass was going and positioned himself to where he could intercept it. 
"He made some big plays," said Irish coach Lou Holtz, "but I think it was the best thing that ever happened to him for Rod Smith to make that play at the end of the game. That was a tremendous play by him." 
Smith had been burned sev­eral times by the Tennessee of­fense, especially in quick passes to split end Carl Pickens. But he broke up several plays as well, including a near-interception in the second quarter on a deep pass intended for Picken:?. 
"After Michigan, I played too tensely, played on my heels and thought too much," said Smith. 

second field goal. Iowa also fell.-!============:....---------------,
six spots in the rankings to 12th, while Ohio State rejoined the Top 20 at 20th, with the Buckeyes' 27-26 victory over the Hawkeyes. 
Make a contribution to life after death. 

It starts with the offensive line, and we're doing great right now. We were pumped up and knew it was do or die. We had to come out· and play, and we did." 
Junior cornerback Smith used a hard two weeks of practice to earn the starting position against Tennessee. 
"On the bus back from Navy coach Holtz said I had practiced extremely hard and that if I had another week of hard practice, I'd get the chance to start against the University of Tennessee," said Smith. "I said, 'Yes Sir."' · 
In a play Notre Dame and Tennessee fans will remember for a long time, Smith inter­cepted a pass in the final minute of the game on the two yard line that would have been the game-winner. Leaping high in the air, Smith speared an Andy Kelly pass right before it went into the hands of Alvin Harper, who was in the end­zone. 
"They (Tennessee) got me once, but I anticipated the next time and I picked it off," said Smith. 
The pass was a play that had worked for Tennessee on its Holtz enough to earn the start­ing position again, after so in­famous a falling out. 
"It's tough to keep your con­centration in that situation, but I knew I could run," said Smith. "I knew I had a commodity that would keep me in contention for the job." 
The redemption is tJSpecially sweet, since Watters and Smith are close friends. 
"When I saw (Smith) catch that interception, I was jumping up and down, I was so happy," said Watters. "We were both on the outs and all that. He's like a little brother to me. We've been through so much. We stick to­gether through thick and thin." 

THE DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS AT GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY LAW CENTER WILL BE MEETING WITH STUDENTS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN LAW SCHOOL 



WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1990 AT 1:00 & 2:00P.M. 
s1t;?t 1CP m ttA~&&~ & 1'bl(tE?IeE'1t7 SSie111(tES 
~ES~t;?l ~?Ei&l~ 
.._ 

Monday, November12, 1990 
The Observer page 21 


Noise bothers ND offense, Zorich happy to play 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn.-Neyland Stadium was electric Saturday night, rumbling from the force of pounding feet, and deafening the football players trying to hear each other on the field. 
"I've been in loud stadiums before. but not where it was this loud," said Irish quarter­back Hiek Mirer. "Tennessee is a great stadium to play in, and a great crowd to play in front of. but it's a bigger stadium than Notre Dame. I didn't think it could get that loud." 
The noise lev1~l got so high in the fourth quarter that the players had to request the fans to quiet down. The noise forced Mirer to seream into the ears of 
Win 
continued from page 24 
Attempting an onside kick the following play, Greg Burke's dribbler eluded Notre Dame players by taking an unlikely bounce and landing right in the chest of Tennessee's Carl Pick­ens. The Neyland Stadium crowd erupted in deafening magnitude, and the Vols had a chance at a dramatic victory. 
But after driving 34 yards to the Notre Dame 20, Smith came up with the interception and the Irish wern victorious. 
"I noticed that they (Tennessen) were running the same play as how they scored the touchdown," said Smith. "I wasn't supposed to be in that position. but I had an idea where thn ball was going. I was lucky." 
Notrn Dame's 34 points in-his players, and once he couldn't get the ball snapped before the 30-second clock ex­pired. 
"In a lot of times, we were getting the play off late because I had to run up and down the line, telling the guys what to do," said Mirer. "But then I'd look at the clock and there'd be zero time left-there was noth­ing I could do." 
The loudest Notre Dame has experienced'? 
"No, this noise was second to Miami last year," said corner­back Hod Smith, who made the game-saving interception in the final minute. "There was noth­ing like that. I couldn't hear myself think." 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz tried to downplay the differ­ences of playing at home or away against the Volunteers. 
"I had a great.visit with them (the team) last night," Holtz said in a press conference after the game Saturday. "When you're playing away from home, sometimes the advantage is the altitude. There isn't a dif­ference in altitude (between South Bend and Knoxville). "Sometimes there's an advan­tage because of the wind, but there isn't any difference here than there is up there, no wind tunnels. Some have the advan­tage of time difference-we're on the same time difference. Some have the advantage be­cause of the crowd, or type of field. There's a slight differ­ence, but the big difference is the crowd. The crowd's un­armed, will remain in the stands, and they're coming to see us. That's how we ap­proached it." 

Notre Dame noseguard Chris 
Zorich did not start against 
Tennessee, but he did rotate 
with starter Eric Jones, splitting 
the time about equally. Zorich 
first came in the game with ·4:01 left in the first quarter. 
"Basically, whether I would 
play was a touch-and-go situa­
tion for a couple of days," said 
Zorich after the game, who suf­
fered a kneecap injury two 
weeks ago against Pittsburgh 
and did not play against Navy. 
"I played with the knee-it was 
just a matter of dealing with the 
pain. The knee feels good-it's 
in pain. I'm having trouble 
bending it right now." 
Zorich had one tackle for a 

eluded three rushing touch­downs, two by senior Hicky Watters and one by junior Raghib Ismail. The three scores were the first Tennessee had allowed on the ground since it played Colorado in the Kickoff Classic Aug. 31. Senior Ricky Watters led all rushers with a career-high 17 4 yards. 
Ismail, who finished with 131 all-purpose yards, scored a 44­yard touchdown with 3:33 left, extending the lead to 34-23. One play after Donn Grimm in­tercepted a pass by Kelly at the Notre Dame 42, Ismail took the ball wide right and outran ev­eryone to the endzone. 
Prior to Ismail's touchdown, Ricky Watters had given Notre Dame the lead when he scored on a run up the middle from 10 yards out. 
"My offensive line is incredi­ble," said Watters. "They don't get a lot of publicity. Every time we play another team, it's like they are always talking about the Michigan line or the Ten­nessee line, but our line is strong also. Everybody played as a team." 
In the first half, the scoring was much lighter, as Notre Dame went into the locker room with a 10-6lead. The only touchdown was a 59-yard touchdown pass from Mirer to fullback Rodney Culver, who slipped out of the backfield and ran his route undefended. That made the score 7-3. 
The Notre Dame defense gave up 516 total yards to the Vol­unteers, including 399 passing by Kelly. Many came through quick-out or quick-in passes that exploited the gaps in the Notre Dame secondary. 
Kelly completed 35 of 60 passes against the Irish de­fense, both school records for Tennessee. Pickens also set a Tennessee school record with 13 receptions, and his 163 yards receiving yards were fifth-best in Volunteer single­game history. 

In the second half, Tennessee scored on its first possession of the third quarter, going 79 yards in 1:24. The big play was Kelly's 33-yard completion to Pickens, another dart pass up the middle as Pickens sprinted diagonally into the middle of the field. Tailback Tony Thompson scored on third down from 10 yards out, mak­ing the score 13-10. 
Notre Dame struck back quickly, as Watters took a handoff from Mirer at the Notre Dame 34, broke three tackles and sprinted 66 yards for the score, outrunning cornerbacks Floyd Miley and Jeremy Lincoln. 
Tennessee scored almost as quickly, driving 80 yards on two-yard loss, but pressured Kelly several times, forcing him to run out of bounds or throw a rushed pass . 
When Notre Dame was on de­fense, Holtz could be seen with defensive coordinator Gary Darnell on the sideline. Many wondered whether Holtz had increased his involvement on defensive coaching at the ex­pense of Darnell's sovereignty. 

''I'm just active," said Holtz, explaining his involvement with the defense. "I try to tP.Il my wife how to cook and I can't even turn on the microwave. I'm one of those guys who if I go to a wedding, I want to bP. the groom. If I go to a funeral, I want to be the corpse. I just want to be involved, but I don't add a lot to it." 
nine plays. The score came on third and 11 from the Notre Dame 31 when Kelly threw a pass right into the hands of the sprinting Harper, who was well covered by Todd Lyght. It made the score 20-17 Tennessee. 
Raghib Ismail set up another Notre Dame score when he re­turned a Joey Chapman punt 38 yards to the Tennessee 11, darting through an open hole on the left side of the field. Three plays later, Hentrich coQverted a 20-yard field goal at the start of the fourth quar­ter, tying the score at 20. 
"Ismail is a huge factor." said Majors. "We tried all kinds of different ploys to keep the ball away from him. But he has such quick movement. lie has the speed of (Tennessee gradu­ate) Willie Gault, but with bet­ter open-field ability. He's like a blur and was a big difference in the game." 
You are inyited to an Autograph Party 



GOD COUNTRY: NOTRE DAME 

Fr. Hesburgh ~ill be at the Notre Da10e Bookstore 
Tuesday· Nov. I3th froiD z:oo to 3:30 Second Flo~r Book Department 

-

page 22 The Observer Monday, November 12, 1990 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Hockey equipment sale is today, from 8-9 p.m. at Gate 3 of the JACC. Gloves, sticks, etc. 239-5227. 
Off-campus defeated Keenan 1-0 Sunday to win the 1990 men's interhall championship. Abiy Hailu's penalty kick with 15 minutes remaining in the game gave the Crime the victory. 
Breen-Philips and Howard advanced to the fianl game of the women's interhall football championship Sunday. The Blitz shut out Farley 12-0, while defending champion Howard came back from an 8-0 halftime deficit to beat P.W. 12-8. Details will be in Tuesday's Observer. 
Men's interhall football coaches -turn in all-league ballots by Tuesday evening in the Observer office. 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
the rest of the period, the intermission must have rejuvenated their batteries, because before the second period was nine minutes old, the Bulldogs had scored three more goals. 
After Aaron Asp struck at the heel of the Irish defense to score at 2:18 of the period, the Irish were penalized for a men­tal lapse when they had too many men on the ice. • 
Ferris State took advantage of the power play when Dave Karpa nailed a slapshot from the left point, which sailed above Irish goalie Greg Louder's outstretched leg to give the Bulldogs a 4-0 advan­tage. 
With Notre Dame left wing Lou Zadra serving two minutes for high-sticking and Ferris State's Asp in the penalty box for tripping, both teams were playing with only four men. Ferris State used the extra ice to their benefit, with Norm Krumpschid scoring the fifth goal of the night for Ferris State. 
The Irish mounted a mini­

comeback, though, when Mike 
Curry took a pass from Tom 
Miniscalco on a two-on-one · 
break and got it past Ferris 
State netminder Mark Felicio to 
get the Irish on the board at the 
14:03 point of the second period. 
Notre Dame had an excellent 

chance to score another goal 
when the Bulldogs' Tom 
O'Rourke got caught for trip­
ping, giving the Irish a power 
play. The Irish dominated the 
power play, keeping the puck in 
Ferris State's end the entire 
time, yet couldn't score a goal. 
A few minutes later, however, 

Notre Dame closed the gap to 
within three goals when Pat 
Arendt nailed a shot into the 
left corner, making the score 5­
2 at the end of the period. 
The Ferris State scoring ma­

chine wasn't finished, though. 
They added two goals in the 
third period, one shorthanded 
and another on the power play, 
to close out the scoring at 7-2. 
"It's a better Ferris State 

team," said Shafer. "They're 
really seasoned by the CCHA. 
We needed to play much better 
than we did." 
The Irish did play better Sat­

urday night at Ferris State, but 
finished on. the losing end of a 
5-4 score. The Bulldogs scored 
the first two goals of the game 
to head into the locker room 
with a 2-0 lead at the first in­
termission. The Irish came 
right back to tie it in the second 
period, though, on goals by 
Arendt and Eric Gregoire. 
Notre Dame gave up a goal late in the second period, though, and when Bulldog for­ward Mike May scored his sec­ond goal of the game with 8:52 gone in the third period, the Irish once again found them­selves down by two goals. Notre Dame win-ger Lou Zadra cut the Ferris State lead to 4-3 just 
2:27 later, but Bulldog Daryl Filipek scored with 5:30 left in the game to increase his squad's lead to 5-3. The Irish managed to score once more when Curtis Janicke tallied an unassisted goal at the 15:20 mark, but Notre Dame could come no closer. 
THE GULF .CRISIS­
A MULTIDIMEN NAL 
a panel discussion by 

Rev. Patrick D. Gaffney, 
Dept. ofAnthropology 

Dr. James J. Rakowski, 
Dept. ofEconomics 

Dr. Alan K. Dowty, 
Government and International Studies 
Dr. Khalil F. Matta, 
Management and Administrative Sciences 
followed by a reception at the library lounge 
The panel discussion is organized by the International Graduate Student Committee and ' sponsored by the Graduate Student Union, the Multicultural Council, Student Government, and the Institute for International Peace Studies. 
~ 




AETNA IS COMING. 
University of Notre Dame Reception/Information Sess~on 
Reception/ Information Session November 13, 1990 Morris N. Alumni Room 5-7:00 p.m. 
• 
Actuaries 

• 
Claims Representatives 

• 
Employee Benefits Representatives 

• 
Financial -Account Career Track Program • 


Men swimmers beat Ball State 
By BECKY WOOD Sports Writer 
The men's swim team passed their first difficult test of the season on Saturday, defeating Ball State 141-94. Notre Dame dominated the meet, winning 10 of the meet's 13 events. 
During last week's practices Head Coach Tim Welsh stressed the importance of the meet against Ball State; Notre Dame and Ball State matched evenly on paper, making the outcome not easy to call. Notre Dame fell to Ball State in the opponents' last three meellhgs, and, while the Irish matched up better with Ball State on paper than in the pool at meet time, Ball State has won the meet until Saturday. 
"The men's commitment to this meet began after a disap­pointing trip to Ball State last year (a 128-105 loss). Return­ing home, the team dedicated itself to winning the meet this year," said Welsh. The amount of serious preparation that went before the meet against Ball State points to the "quality" of Ball State's program, noted Welsh. 
The week's theme, "step up, step up to a higher level," car-

moderated by 
Dr. John J. Gilligan, 
Director, Institute for International Peace Studies 
at the 
Library Auditorium Monday, November 12 7:00p.m.. 
Actuarial Reception/ Information Center November 14, 1990 
Morris N. Alumni Room 
ried through to the meet as the men stepped up to a higher level of competition. 
"The results make it very clear what positive results the work of assistant coach Randy Julian, and the mental training of Dr. Roger Klauer have been," said Welsh. 
Coach Julian noted early in the meet the difference between this year and the past few. This year Notre Dame led in the close races, whereas last year the Irish were behind in the tight spots. Welsh also noted the dominating factor of depth, especially when the team depth races for first place. 
Seven of the ten events in which the Irish claimed firsts they also placed second: 400 medley relay, iooo free, 200 in­dividual medley, 200 butterfly, 200 backstroke, 500 free and 200 breaststroke. In three of those events, the Irish took 1-2­3, and in the 1000 free and 200 fly Notre Dame finished 1-2-3­4. 
Yet, for all the wins only se­nior co-captain Brian Rini won two events. Rini led Notre Dame to victory in both the 1000 free and the 200 fly, fol­lowed by teammates Jim Do­ran, Paul Godfrey and Bill 
6-8:00 p.m. 
·Co-ops 
• 
Bond Representatives 1r.r.1•• 

• 
Interns 




Campbell in the 1000, and Godfrey, Joe Rentz and Brian Casey in the 200 fly. 
Freshman dive Sean Hyer re­set his university record in 3 meter diving, and qualified for the NCAA Zone Diving Meet in March, from which the NCAA National Championship Field is selected. Hyer scored 329.05 points, breaking the record he set less than a month ago by almost 10 points. 
Hyer's score broke the longest standing record on the books, one held by Bob Ebel since 1975. Diving Coach Tracy Brennan knew Sean was "out to win" in the 3 meter after losing by less than 10 points in 1 me­ter diving. 
"Qualifying so early for zones is fantastic. Sean has great po­tential to compete at the Na­tional Level," said Brennan. 
Across the board the Irish swimming and diving reflected great team progress. The swimmers posted season best times in every event from Jim Birmingham's :21.97 in the 50 free to John Godfrey's 1:58.12 in the 200 backstroke. Other first place finishes and top per­formances went to Tom Whow­ell, Colin Cooley, Ed Broderick, Chuck Smith, Dave Nathe and Jim RvrnP. 
Monday, November 12, 1990 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Monday, November 12, 1990 ACROSS 30 Old Testament 53 Debatable book 
54 Pub order 1 Retired 

4:00 p.m. Slide Show and Presentation, "Grassroots 
33Ascends 
55 He loves: Lat. 

5 Federal agt. 
View of the Coca-Cocaine Industry in Bolivia," Kevin John 
35 Bangkok-to­

• e Harrow's rival 56 Torpor
Healy, Inter-American Foundation, Washington, DC. Mul­
Hcfnoi dir. 

13 Fragrant 59 Dimension
tipurpose Hoom, Center for Social Concerns. Admission 
36 Assessment

oleoresin
Fren. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute with the Pro­&OJot 
14 Hodgepodge 37 Command
gram on Multinational Managers and Developing Country 61 Dunce caps 15 One of HOMES 38 Tarry
Concerns, Center for Social Concerns and IAASP. 82 W. German dam 18 Large fruit or its 
39Anger 
63 British gun 

6:00 p.m. Student Senate. Notre Dame Hoom, LaFor­vine 
40 Printing errors

turw, Student Center 64 Low-lying
18 Demolish, in 411mage islands off Fla. 
Devon 19 Savoie summer 42 N.A. turtle LECTURE CIRCUIT 20 Squiggly 44 Make lace DOWN 21 Minted 48 Barbarians 1 Wing-shaped 
Monday, November 12,1990 
23 Designates 
47 Verbatim 
2 Asian nut 

25AIIots
4:15 p.m. Lectun1, "Liberalism in America: Reflections 51 Tenor who was 
3 Scottish uncle 

260ne-time
on Markets, Citizenship and the State," Prof. Ira Katznel­born in Naples 
4 Straightforward 
son. Hoom 122, llayes-llealy. Admission Free. Sponsored 27 Noisy and died there by I>npartment of Sociology and Phi Beta Kappa. 5 Carols &Associate 
7:00 p.m. "MBAs: Masters in Business Administra­ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 El Tajo, e.g. tion," Dean Hobert Waddick. College of Arts and Letters. 
a "Classic" TV

Hoom 114 O'Shaughnessy. Sponsored by Arts and Letters 
gameBusiness Society. 
9Weirder 10 Moving at 27 Africa's largest 43 Carpenter's 50 Mount Palomar 
7:00 p.m. Panel Discussion on the Gulf Crisis. John J. 
700-780 m.p.h. land plane necessity
Gilligan. Shuster professor and director of the Institute for 45Assault
at sea level 28 Ruin 51 ReceptacleIntnrnational Peace Studies will moderate. Auditorium, 47 Producer Josh 
52 Mixed with 11 French river 290bserved

llesburgh Library. Admission Free. Sponsored by 
53 Deck officer 30 Descended 48Weather12 Want

International Graduate Student Committee. 
forecast 57 Toddler31 Simple13 Rams' dams 49 Shade of green 58 Low digit 32 Misuse a 17 Transformation pastureland
Ue~•••C!!" 
22 Siouans 34 Fragral)t 

Answers to any three clues in this Notre Dame 24 Uncomplex rootstock puzzle are available by touch-tone 25 A Cezanne phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each
38Nip contemporary 40 Diner sign minute).
Roast Top Round Turkey Turnover w/ Supreme Sauce Vegetables Marinara 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

DAD. LOQ¥:.! ~E: '5\JI'i'S strn~EJ ~1\11) \~ 0\'iL'{ 
3 o·c.\.Do:. ! I 
J~ 
..) -:; 9 
OJf'!, 
.. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

l
I 
' 

\NH ~T'S Ttlll·T 
AWFUL 
SME.LL? 
-
GARY LARSON 


... 

Sports
page 24 

Monday, November 12, 1990 
Notre Dame holds off Vols for dramatic 34-29 win 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn.-In a week that had Bowl scouts and representatives groping for antacid tablets, top-ranked Notre Dame provided a dash of reassurance Saturday by de­feating ninth-ranked Tennessee 34-29. 
Notre Dame successfully de­fended its ranking in front of 97,123 fans at Neyland Sta­dium, the second-largest crowd in the arena's history. The Irish pounded away at a prized Vol­unteer defense for 408 total yards and virtually secured an invitation to the Orange Bowl January 1. 
The victory came at a time when representatives from the Sugar, Rose and Fiesta Bowls are unsure who will be attend­ing their events. Positioning Notre Dame outside of the uncertainty of the New Year's Day festivities, Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal issued this statement Sunday: 
"We looked at the opportuni­ties in the bowl picture and while all of them were tremen­dously impressive, we have elected to wait to see if we will be extended an invitation to play in the Orange Bowl against Colorado, the number-two ranked team. If that invitation is extended to us, we would find that quite attractive and we would accept it at the proper time." 
The luxury of releasing such a statement was afforded by the timely victory over Tennessee. Rosenthal and bowl representatives watched and marvelled as the game switched leads six times and came down to the final minute until it was decided. 
"This was a classic game," said Holtz after the game. "The momentum went back and forth. I don't know how it looked up there, but that was the longest day I've put in on the sideline in my life. We take this win very humbly. l thought we deserved to win but Ten­nessee could be saying the same thing." 
With less than a minute re­maining in the game and the ball at Notre Dame's 20 yard line, Tennessee quarterback Andy Kelly sent a pass intended for Alvin Harper into the right corner of the endzone, but cornerback Rod Smith jumped high to snare it for an intercep­tion. That ensured the victory for Notre Dame. 
Up to that point Tennessee had been on a roll. Down 34-23 with 3:25 left, the Volunteers started on their own 32 and marched 68 yards for the score on a 23-yard touchdown catch by Harper. It was the same play that Tennessee coach Johnny Majors called in the final minute when Smith made the game-winning interception. 
The touchdown made the score 34-29, but Tennessee failed on a two-point conversion when Kelly overthrew Vince Moore in the endzone. 
see WIN I page 21 
Watters and Smith lead ND 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn.-Disap­pointment comes in many forms and is called by many names. For Ricky Watters, it was called Stanford. For Rod Smith, it was known as Michigan. 
Both these players became acquainted with disappoint­ment this season, Watters dur­ing the Stanford loss Oct. 6 when he fumbled two punts, and Smith when he was burned several times in the 
Michigan game to start off the season. Shaken out of complacency, and out of their starting posi­
-
tions, the two were given the chance to start in Saturday's 34-29 victory over Tennessee, and both regained the form that had earned them the top spots on the Irish depth charts at the beginning of the season. For senior tailback Ricky 

The Observer/Andrew McC:tosl<e· 
Rod Smith intercepts a pass from Tennessee quarterback Andy Kelly on the two yard line in the closingScott Brutocao minutes of Saturday's game. Smith's catch saved a Volunteers touchdown and clinched the Irish Victory. 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Watters, it was a record-setting day as he rushed for a career­high 17 4 yards and scored two touchdowns. Holtz gave him the starting nod for the first time since Sept. 22, when the Irish gained a season-low 156 yards on 49 carries against Michigan State. 
"Lou Holtz said right before the Na-vy game that he was go­ing to give Tony Brooks and myself (both seniors) the chance to win or lose it," said Watters. "That was saying something." 
In the game, Notre Dame rushed for 316 yards against a defense that averaged 135.1 yards against the run, and more than half of those yards were from Watters. 
"I'd have to say (this was my biggest game) because I hadn't been playing up to par in the last two or three weeks, or for good to be back there con that matter the whole season," tributing." said Watters. "Just to be a part Watters' 66-yard scamper 
ofit." the middle for a touchdown 
This success is in great con-the third quarter was the trast to his depression after the time Tennessee had Stanford game, in which he was rushing touchdown since characterized as the widely 31, when it played Colorado. criticized, bumbling punt re-"We had a great week o turner. preparation," said Watters. 
"After the Stanford game I was a whole week of comin was feeling pretty bad," said together. Watters. "I wasn't feeling bad for myself but for the guys. It's see COMEBACK I page 20 
Losses mar hockey ~~A~:~M£~ 
.n N D h 0 me 0 pene r Sports Writer
I · 

The Notre Dame men's cross By RICH KURZ game right from the start," he country team captured a stun-Sports Writer said. "This is not the first time ning victory at the NCAA Re-
that it's happened." gion IV qualifying meet at Pur-It took Ferris State only 37 due University last Saturday,Maybe, just maybe, if it had seconds to score the first goal upsetting third-ranked Wiscon­
only been that one early goal, of the game when Kelly sin-Madison and seventh-then the Notre Dame hockey Sorenson took a pass from ranked Michigan to take the team could have pleaded John dePourcq and put it in crown and qualify for the NCAA home-opener jitters. the right side of the net. Finals. 
As it was, the Ferris State Things didn't get much better The Irish edged out second-hockey team scored four for Notre Dame from that place Michigan by a narrow more goals before the Irish point. margin of two. points, and fin-
could get on the board, on its Just under five minutes 
ished 18 points away from way to a 7-2 pasting of Notre later, the B.ulldogs added a third-place finisher Wisconsin. Dame Friday night at the second goal off a deflected John Coyle was the first finisher 
Joyce ACC, leading fans to shot to increase their lead to for the Irish, finishing sixth believe that there was a more 2-0. 
overall with a time of 31:18.05 
serious problem at hand. Although the Ferris State for the 10K course. Notre Dame head coach Ric attack cooled somewhat for Freshman Mike McWilliams Schafer agreed. placed second for the Irish in 
"We need to focus on the see HOCKEY/ page 22 31:30.73, good for eighth over­


~~~~~0~~~,,~ 0-w~o~!v~~.lit 
Dame top five w~s Pat Kearns tle bit of speedwo_r~. bl!t 99 
(13th), Ryan Cahill (20th), and percent of our trammg IS al-Mike O'Conner (23rd). ready done," continued Piane, 
The victory assured the Irish "We just have to try to stay of a berth in the NCAA finals, to healthy." be held on November 19 in Piane stressed the high cal­Knoxville, TN. The finals will iber of competition that the determine the Division I cham-Irish will face at the NCAA Fi­pion for the year, as well as the nals, and expressed hopeful final season rankings. goals for the outcome. 
Irish head coach Joe Piane, "There is a total of 284 Divi­though satisfied with his teams' sion I cross country teams (in performance on Saturday, is the country)," explained Piane, already looking ahead to "and you have to be in the top November 19. eight percent to get to the fi­
"The kids ran very, very nals. It's comparable to making well," said Piane, "but I think it to the Final 16 in NCAA Divi­we can run better, and if you'd sion I basketball. What they ask the fellas they'd say the (the Irish) have accomplished is same thing. Ryan Cahill ran a terrific. little too aggressively in the "We want to make a erect-beginning, and Mike O'Conner itable showing at the finals," had a touch of the flu and didn't concluded Piane. "Our number-run so well. one goal is to be in the top ten 
in the country." 






