

VOL. XXIII NO. 73 TUESDAY, JANUARY 23, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Senator Biden proclaims no 'quick fix' for drug problem 
The Observer/Bill Mowle 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Assistant News Editor 
Senator Joseph Biden, one of the Senate's leading experts on drug legislation, said in a lec­ture on Monday that neither le­galization of drugs nor further erosion of constitutional rights arn the solution to the nation's drug problems. 
In a lPcture entitled "Drugs in America: No quick fix," Biden said that control of America's drug problems will n~quire bet­tl~r Pducation. more treatm·ent programs, and eontinued "targeted enforcmm~nt." 
Calling himself a "congenital optimist." Biden said that elim­
volt," said Mohammad Nomani, 
Notre ~arne's new band building is almost completed, with only the finishing touches left to be done. The 
inating the consumption of con­trolled substances "is not pos­sible ... but within the next 5 to 7 years we can bring it under control" with the implication of the programs he proposed. 
"I believe we have hit the zenith of the drug problem," Biden said. "I believe the drug epidemic is about to weim, not wax--decrease, not increase." 
Biden attacked two popular stances on the drug issue: the idea of legalization of drugs proposed by some politicians and columists and the prospect of more hard-line measures such as implication of the death penalty in even more cases as well as further restrictions on individual rights favored by 

Strike up the band 

new bU1ld1ng IS located near the new ROTC building. 
Towed automobiles will not hit students in the bankbook 

By MONICA YANT 
News Writer 
Students whose automobiles were towed from the D1 lot be­hind the University Club Satur­day will not be charged for the tickets they received, said Phil Johnson. assistant director of Security. 
Twelve cars were towed to the C1-D1 lot near the Alumni­Senior Club because of the need to install a fence which will serve as a new divider between the student lot and faculty and staff lot. 
Notifications requesting stu­dents to move their cars were placed on the automobiles Thursday. Johnson said. 
According to Jim Schilder, student representative to the University ad-hoc committee on parking, the short time span and confusion about where cars should be moved caused a towing situation that could have been avoided. 
Schilder said he and other students parking in the first row of the lot received notices. Following the advice on the no­tice, Schilder moved·his car into a row with no notices. Saturday afternoon, however, he found his car had been towed, and those that had received notifi­cation, but had not moved, re­mained. 
"None of the cars in the first row that received the memo was moved, I believe," he said. 
Schilder also said that since not all students use their cars daily, the short time allowed for notification was not suffi­cient. 
Although the towed cars were ticketed, Johnson said that those students will receive noti­fication that the tickets were voided. 
Johnson stressed that the towing was in no way done be­cause of violation by students. He said that many times con­struction activity, such as utility work, requires the temporary moving of automobiles. 
According to Johnson, the towing company used "would not knowingly move a car in a way that could damage it." If students notice any damage to their automobiles, they should immediately report to Security. 
After the towing on Saturday, the fence was installed and the dividing of the lot was com­pleted, he said. 
inspector-general of police in Srinagar. He estimated the number of protesters at 1,500 
New dept. formed in engineering 

By VALLI VAIRAVAN 
News Writer 
The Department of Mat(;i­. rials Science and Engineer-' 
ing will be abolished as of 
June 30 and the department 
of Computer Science and 
Engineering will be formed 
due to the changing nature 
of the field. 
As a result of the devel(lp• 
ment of the new Computer 
Science and Engineering D¢~ 
partment, the present De;-, 
partment of Electrical and 
Computer Engineering will 
change to the Department of 
Electrical Engineering. . 
A new center, the Center 
for Materials Science .and 
Engineering Education and 
Research will handle the 
graduate level education alid 
degree programs, according 
to a press release. The un­
dergraduate program lead.t 
ing . to the bachelor of 
science in materials science 
and engineering will be 
discontinued no later than 
September 30, 1994, 
"What we have in essence so.~e righ~-wing _legislators. Biden said that "legali~ation efr,ort against drugs.·: . 
I don t beheve harsher of controlled substa~ce. IS not The call for legalizatiOn as penalties or legalization are the the only answer," pomtmg out well as the references to sus­next stage in the war on examples of faihid legalization pend civil liberties, are borne drugs," said Biden. efforts such as Italy's attempt out of frustration" with current 
to legalize the personal con-enforcement efforts, Biden sumption of drugs. According said. to Biden's sources, there are "We have done enough on the now over 100,000 heroine users enforcement side. Now is the in Milan alone. time for us to deal with things 
He said that the problem of that we know work and we drugs must be dealt with soon haven't tried," Biden said. or "I predict our civil liberties "Now is the time to get serious and constitutional protection about our strategy." will be increasingly put in jeop-He said th3:t "we should get ardy." He said this will result if about the busmess of dealing at the attitude taken by some of a critical juncture in this drug his fellow congressmen that fight" by following three objec­"We may have to make some tives: 
Joseph Biden trade-offs between constitu-• Maintenance of targeted tiona! rights and an effective see BIDEN 1page 4 
Violence in India puts death toll at 48 people 
SRINAGAR, India (AP) -Moslem militants defied cur­fews Monday and fought sol­diers for a second day in an outburst of secessionist vio­lence police say has killed 48 pwple and jnjured 400. 
Trouble began late Saturday when Moslems protested a po­lice crackdown. Moslem mili­tants want to secede from pre­dominantly Jlindu India and ei­ther make Kashmir independent or unite the northwestern state with adjacent Pakistan, an Islamic nation. 
Only a brief lull during heavy rain Sunday has interrupted the violence. Police said militants and two policemen were killed Monday in Srinagar and four protesters were shot to death in neighboring Anantnag. 
"The whole city is up in re­
the College of Engineering," said Dr. Timothy O'Meara, University p}"ovost, in a press•release:•••• 
"Significant and continu· ing changes in technology and how it serves society, combined with a shift in the interests of Notre Dame's engineering faculty and our desire to best use the re· sources or the College and the University, all con-
tr.iibbl!J:u···.•ed .to. .this., dec.is}on,
wjliCh is overdue, he satd. 
/According to Anthony Michel, dean of the College of Engineering, faculty for the new department will be filled by faculty presently in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engjneering. Existing vacancies will be used to recruit faculty for Computer Science and Engip-eering, and 2 to ..~· new positions willbe opened up for the department. The new department is expected to consl~t of12. members, 
'(he degree ptograms in computer science and com· be 

and said tlwy had at least 1,000 automatic rifles and other weapons. 
A senior official in Srinagar said privately the local authori­ties had asked for more troops "to back up the security forces." Hundreds of soldiers have been sent to Srinagar, a city of 1 million that is the summer capital of Jammu­Kashmir state on the Pakistan border. 
At least 38 people, most of them protesters, were killed late Saturday night and Sun­day. Police said troopers opened fire on curfew violators in at least six places Monday. 
Doctors at the Soora Medical Institute said at least 300 peo­ple were wounded Monday when soldiers fired on a group of about 5,000. "Most of them had injuries in the upper part of the body," one doctor said, asking that his name not be used. 
Present freshmen and sophomore engineering stu­dents may· choose these two areas in which to get a de· gree, according to Michel. 
"The computer engineering degree will follow the tradi­tional requirements that are common to all engineering students. Computer science will be more flexible,"said Michel. 
No new equipment will be purchased, because existing facilities are available for the new department, Michel indicated. 
These changes were brought aboutby the College of Engineering in accordance with a recommendation set forth in the University's Priorities and Commitments of Excellence Report {PACE). 
Only minor adjustments are necessary to the Com­puter Engineering program in electrical engineering in orderto meet the Accredita· don Board for Engineering and Technology require· ments, according to a press 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Americans 
take freedom 


for granted 
Hecently, seven Chinese students were 
arrested in Beijing for unfurling a banner  Joe Moody  
that  said,  "Why  is  News Copy Editor  
China so poor?"  
Across the Eastern  
bloc,  rallies  and  
protests call  out  for  
freedom and  an  end  
to  harsh Communist  
rule.  They  call  for  
freedom of speech  

and freedom of expression. 
Meanwhile, we in the world's oldest exist­ing democracy smile, knowing we don't have to yell, scream or die for our freedom. Those before us already did. 
But we smile ignorantly. Looking around, it's easy to see that we have taken our free­dom for granted. From the ads that say the sun won't shine until you're holding a Bud, to the essay written solely for the economi­cally advantageous "A," the threat to free­dom of expression isn't just in government censorship from, but also from what we do with the freedom we have. 
When the New York Times decides that "all the news that's fit to print" cannot of­fend its readers or must advantageously treat its benefactors, then the news be­comes a stacked deck; it's not really telling history but rather acting as a manipulative tool. In today's popular music, musicians who poured out to their emotions to the world are lost. 
"Freedom is just another word for noth­ing left to lose," sang Janis Joplin. But per­formers today know there is much to lose: an image, being in the mainstream, and the almighty dollar. Musieians and their pro­ducers dwell in studios for long periods of time to figure out what the "hip" sound, style and even the latest political cause is. Then they'll laboriously manipulate the mochanized music to create the music for the masses. 
When we limit and suppress ourselves for money or prestige or (possibly the worst,) glory, freedom becomes merely an tool to gain some ulterior goal. Truth and untruth blend together, leaving advantage and dis­advantage as the only relevant factors. 
Perhaps one of the only places the art of expression can be unprntentious or true to the author is, strangely enough, graffiti. "The words of the prophets are written on the subway walls," unbound by laws, politi­cal or grammatical. unbound by ulterior motive, free of the desire for praise, power or paycheck. 
The abuses of our freedom have taught us to distrust politicians from another party. Commercials border on falsehood. Music has developed a just-dance-don't-listen atti­tude, and almost all news media have been labeled with one political slant or another. 
So before we count our blessings of being born into freedom while looking down on those seven poor arrested Chinese students, and before we get too distressed about the log the government placed in the~r eye, maybe we should remove the skyscraper in our own first. Maybe we should unfurl our own banner asking, "Why are we so rich?" 
r----------------------------------­
.-The~~Observer 
P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lndl.l11i1 4655Fl (219)·239 7471 Today's Staff: 
News Ad Desigl Amy Leroux 
Shannon Roach
Production
Greg Lucas Sheila Jones Janice O'Leary 
Wendy Cunningharr, 
Laura Rossi 
Jeanne Blasi 
Sports Viewpoint 
Scott Brutocao Accenl Molly Schwartz Paige Smoron Kim Skiles Paul Pearson 
Systems Graphics Gilbert Gomez Bradford j. Boehm Michael Gargiulo 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 

WEATHER  
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, January 23.  
Yesterday's high: 34  
Yesterday's low: 31  
Nation's high: 88  
(Naples, Fla.)  
Nation's low: -16  
(Gunnison, CO)  
Forecast:  
Increasing  cloudiness  
today with  a chance of  
sprinkles late in the day.  
Highs from the lower to  
middle  40s.  Cloudy  
• •  •• •  tonight with a chance of light rain. Lows in the  


r_c_o~L~D~~-~-~_R_~___s_l_A_T_IO_N_A_R_Y____________~--------------~©~1~99~0~A~c~c~u-!W~e~at~h!er~.~ln~~ upper 30s. ~ostly cloudy 
Pressure Wednesday with a 40
® © ~ ~ rn tz3 m E::::-="1 (;} ~ ~ percent chance of light 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW morning rain. Highs in the
~~~~--~~~----------~--------~~~--~IC=E~~S~U~NN~Y~P~T~·=CL~O=U~O~Y~C:L~O~UD~Y~ lower 40S. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 

Residence hall contracts for the 1990-91 aca­The Pre-Law Society will be having a meeting demic year have been sent to the residence halls. In tonight at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Dean order to be eligible for housing in the fall students McLean of the Notre Dame Law School and an admis­must return the contract to the Office of Student Resi­
sions officer from the DePaul Law School will be the dences prior to 5 p.m., Feb. 2, 1990. guest speakers. 
Musicians and vocalists/actors/actresses eSC/Maryknoll Mexico Summer Program in needed for "Godspell." Farley is beginning to audition Oaxaca: A mandatory meeting for all those interested 
for its spring production of the musical "God spell." will be held tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Center for Soeial Instruments used in the band include guitar, base, pi­Concerns. Questions? Call Dave Krier at 283-1 145. ano. flute and percussion. Those interested please contact Amalia at 283-4021. Auditions for the cast will World Awareness Series needs people inter­
begin on Jan. 31 and will be announced in greater de­ested in helping and/or participating in a week focusing on Latin America or Eastern Europe, please contact
tail. 
Gailius Dravgelis at 283-1786 or Maeve ()'Donavan at 283-2650. 
A summer job fair will be held on Wednesday, Jan. 24 from 1 to 5 p.m. at the CCE. Meet with com­A phone-a-thon organizational meeting will be pany representatives to discuss internships or other held today at 9 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. available opportunities. Students should bring copies LaFortune. The Phone-a-thon .is an annual fundraiser 
of profiles or resumes. Sponsored by Career and for the Women's Care CentN. a pro-life pregnancy help Placement Services. · center. 
NATIONAL 

A leading government researcher expressed The Air Force announced Monday it plans to concern about the continuation of a study in which launch the fifth in a new series of military navigation more than 300 children with AIDS are not getting the satellites on Wednesday. The $65 million Navstar drug AZT, now the only anti-AIDS drug widely believed satellite is to join a network of navigation spacecraft to be effective in children. Half the kids in the study are that can tell U.S. and allied military forces where they getting an unproven drug called intravenous im­are to within 50 feet anywhere in the world, in any munoglobulin, or IVIG. Half are getting only a placebo. weather. 
CAMPUS 

The National Association of Students of Father Theodore Hesburgh, c.s.c.. president 
Catholic Colleges and Universities will hold its first emeritus of the University of Notre Dame, is the sub­meeting next week at the University of Notre Dame. ject of the first in a series of "bio-bibliographies" to be About 150 representatives from nearly 30 Catholic published by Greenwood Press in Westport, Conn. schools are expected to attend the meeting Feb. 2-"Theodore M. Hesburgh: A Rio-Bibliography" con­
4.The association was conceived during discussions sists of a short biographical essay on Father llesburgh held last spring on the South Bend campus among stu­by Thomas Stritch, professor emeritus of American dent leaders from Notre Dame, the universities of Day­studies; a bibliography of major published and unpub­
ton and San Francisco, John Carroll University in lished works by father Hesburgh, as well as selected Cleveland, the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minn., works about him. 
and Spring Hill College in Mobile, Ala. The publisher describes the 275-page book as "a use­
ful resource for students and scholars of education, 
American studies and Ameriean religious history." 
MARKET UPDATE

INDIANA 

Closings for January 22, 1990 
Volume in shares 
148.38 Million 

A 36-year-old man, Thomas Piwkiewicz of Gary, was killed Monday after walking in front of a semi and suffering massive injuries. The incident 
NVSE Index

occurred about 1:30 p.m. on U.S. 35, near the 
183.20 {7 4.36 

intersection of State Road 25, authorities said. 
S&P Composite

Piwkiewicz was walking along the highway, and 
330.77 {7 8.77 

for unknown reasons stepped into the path of the 
Dow Jones Industrials 

truck. 

2600.45 {777.45 
Precious Metals Gold {7 $0.30to $410.90/ oz. Silver"i} 1.0¢ to $5.25 I oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On January 24: e In 1848: .James Marshall found gold in Sutter's Mill in California. 
e In 1888: Ernst Ueinkel, the builder of the first rocket­powered aircraft, was born. 
e In 1899: The rubber heel was patented by Humphrey 
O'Sullivan.  
e In 1935: The  first  beer in  
cans was sold.  
e In 1986: Voyager  II  flew  
past Uranus.  


Barry to treatment center, Jackson may replace 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­Mayor Marion Barry, fac­ing a cocaine possession charge, flew to a Florida treatment center Monday while political operatives back home began looking to Jesse Jackson as an al­ternative candidate for mayor. 
A Jackson associate said, "I know he's getting a lot of pressure to run. I don't know if he's going to." 
SpPaking only on condi­tion of anonymity, the source said "a lot of the pressure is coming from Marion's people." 
City officials confirmed that the mayor left the capital for treatment of an unspecified hp,alth problem the day after declaring he would take steps "to heal my body. mind and soul." Barry, who did not specifi­cally wfnr to a drug or al­cohol problem in his Sun­day remarks, left his home at dawn Monday accompa­nied by his wife Effi. 
Neither Barry nor his wife would say where they were going, but a top polit­ical aide said Barry left for the Hanley-Hazelden Treatment Center in West PalrR Beach, Fla. 
An aide in the center's admissions office said she could not disclose the iden­tity of persons checking into the facility. She said the center is for the treat­ment of substance and al­cohol abuse, but that some people enter for a determi­nation of whether they have a problem. 
Barry's plans to an­nounce his candidacy Sun­day for a fourth term as mayor of the nation's capi­tal were abruptly canceled after his arrest Thursday night on a misdemeanor cocaine possession charge. lie appeared briefly in court Friday and was ordered to undergo weekly drug testing. 
AWWW !!!!.----­
How CUTE ... What 
Happened? 
HAPPY 19TH 
DARIN and DEAN. 
Love, Mom and Everybody 
(late as usual) 






MCAT 
I STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
eMTakeKaplanOrTakeYourChances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 

Over 100,000 mourn dead in Baku 
MOSCOW (AP)-Hundreds of thousands of wailing, black­clad Azerbaijanis marched through Baku on Monday to mourn people killed when Soviet troops put down a nationalist revolt, and the republic's legislature threatened secession if Moscow did not pull out its soldiers. 
In aoother move in defiance of President Mikhail Gorbachev, local legislators declared Moscow's state of emergency void, and militants vowed to keep up crippling strikes until troops leave. 
Also Monday, Communist leaders from Soviet Armenia and Azerbaijan took a tentative step toward ending 10 days of ethnic warfare, agreeing to withdraw armed groups from areas along their border, Tass said. But activists in Armenia and Azerbaijan said they were skeptical the truce would be kept. 
The official Soviet nPws agency reported 12 more people were killed in ethnic clashes Monday on the border of the two republics, raising the toll since Jan. 13 to 167. Soviet of­ficials said 83 of those were from the Soviet assault on the Azerbaijani capital on Saturday or skirmishes the previous day. 
More than 500 have been wounded In the conflicts. 
An emergency overnight ses­sion of the Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet legislature demanded the full withdrawal of Soviet troops from the republic, with the ex­ception of border districts with Armenia, said Baku lawyer Viliyad Mamedov, who attended the 11 112-hour overnight ses­sion. 
Lawmakers also demanded the lifting of the curfew and state of emergency in Baku and other areas of Azerbaijan, whicl} Moscow imposed without the approval of Azerbaijani au­thorities, Mamedov said in a telephone interview. 
If those demands are not met, Mamedov said, the legislature will consider voting to secede from the Soviet Union. 
At Monday's mass rally in Baku, demonstrators carried posters reading, "Gorbachev is the butcher of the Azerbaijani people," and "Azerbaijanis will not succumb to tanks," said Shain Gajiyev, a Baku journal­ist. 
Witnesses said throngs of mourners numbering as many as 2 million bore coffins of Azerbaijanis killed in the week­end assault down the narrow streets and major thorough­fares to Lenin Square, now re­named Freedom Square in honor of the Azerbaijani na­tionalist cause. 
The mourners, wearing black and carrying black-bordered portraits of some of the vic­tims, then buried the victims at Kirov Park, overlooking the Caspian Sea. · 
Sexton placed on national college board 
Special to The Observer ton, D.C.-based AGB is an in­
ternational, nonprofit service 
William Sexton. vice president organization offering a variety for University relations at of programs to assist trustees, Notre Dame. has been ap­regents, presidents, chancel­pointed to the development ad­lors, and other higher educa­visory committee of the Associ­tion officials to achieve their ation of Governing Boards of institutional objectives. The de­Universities and Colleges velopment advisory committee (AGB). administers AGB's programs Founded in 1921, Washing-involving fund-raising strate-
The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street 
Mishawaka 



259-6322 
Hours: 7·30 a.m.· 9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
WA§HEJR§ ONll...Y 85¢ 
,Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash 
Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound 
Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up. wash. dry. fold. deliver SAME DAY SERVICE 
gies and techniques. 
Sexton, who has held his cur­rent position since 1983, directs the University's activities in development, public relations, community relations and institutional advancement, as well as its alumni association. publications, special events and Notre Dame Magazine. 
Under his direction, the University has generated more than $250 million in cash contributions since 1983 and has secured an additional $400-plus million in cash and pledges to its current "Strategic Moment" fund-rais­ing campaign. Annual gifts to the University-approximately $44.9 million in fiscal 1989­and its endowment, currently some $550 million, both have doubled during Sexton's tenure. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1966, Sexton is an associate professor of man­agement in the College of Busi­ness Administration and con­tinues to teach. He holds bache­lor's, master's and doctoral degrees from Ohio State Uni­versity. 

JUNIORS 
@[11)0W ®®® O~©[bl!D[ID~®~ 
*Transportation *Lodging *Dinner at Dianna's *Ticket to Second City 
Tickets on sale at Junior Class Office 3-5 pm HURRY--Limited space 


LaRouche convictions upheld 
HICHMOND, Va. (AP) -The tax and mail fraud conspiracy convictions of political extrem­ist Lyndon LaHouche were upheld Monday by a federal ap­peals court. 
A three-judge panel of the 4th 

U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals also upheld the convictions of six LaHouche associates in a case that stemmed from more than $30 million in loans raised by LaHouche's political sup­porters. 
In a unanimous ruling, the appeals panel rejected claims of procedural flaws in the trial of LaHouche, who ran for presi­dent in 1980 and 1984 and has endorsed theories of high-level 
Biden 
continued from page 1 
enforcement. Biden said we need to "take back our schools, our streets back so mothers can send their kids out the door with the liklihood that they'll make it to school safely." 
• 
Increased drug education. He called for an immediate "significant education program beginning in kindergarten and first grade." 

• 
More treatment programs. "Dr. Bennett [Bush Administra­tion Drug Czar William Ben­nett! says 'We need stronger enforcement so the casual user will seek treatment.' Hell, the casual user-you've got 90,000 people saying 'Help me' and there's no place for them to go," Biden said. lie added that the average waiting list for drug abuse treatment in state programs is nine months. 


Biden cautioned against de­manding immediate success Ramsey Clark, chief attorney for LaRouche's appeal, argued that U.S District Judge Albert Bryan of Alexandria allowed only 34 days from arraignment to trial and failed to adequately question jurors on how much they knew about the defendant. 
conspiracy  against  him  by  
world leaders.  
Former  Attorney  General  

But the appeals panel found no abuse of discretion in Bryan's ·refusal to delay the trial. 
"When Judge Bryan denied the defendants' motion for a continuance, he possessed a highly relevant piece of infor­mation: The defense waited 18 days to move for a continu­ance," the panel said. "Defense counsel's prolonged silence leads to the reasonable infer­ence that 34 days was not a clearly insufficient period of time between arraignment and trial." 

The panel also said LaRouche's lawyers made no attempt to press potential jurors to determine "individually anyone who had ever heard of LaRouche," although certain jurors who said they were familiar with the case or who had worked in law enforcement or had accounting or tax backgrounds were indi­vidually questioned. 
from these programs. "We're bound to fail," he said. 
"We are going to waste money in our attempts for edu­cation and treatment," said Biden. "But that will pale in comparison with the tens of billions of dollars we are wast­ing now by only attempting to address the problem of en­forcement." 
"If you define winning as the elimination of the epidemic proportions of the problem, than this is something we can win," he said. 

Catnpus Ministry and You 
---------------------MINISTRY 
New Year Resolutions 
A Multiple Choice Offering: 
Lose 10 pounds Gain 10 pounds Find an original way to ask ''How was your Break?" Find an original way to answer ''How was your Break?" Call Ishmael Call home before home calls me to find out why I haven't called Stop smoking and chewing Grow through lust to love Give a little, take a little Don't use any styrofoam, ever, under any circumstances at all Attend at least one non scheduled, non required lecture See one serious film at the Snite Explore with someone some aspect of my spiritual life Pray with a church community at least twice more than I want to Do at least one thing different, out of character, each week Put those empties in the recycle box Hit the trash can Exercise at least 20 minutes, three times a week Say something nice to my roommate, every day Check my negativity Smile Less impulse buying Differentiate between "need" and "want'' Prioritize Don't use words like prioritize Read something I don't have to read Find a spiritual friend Make a spiritual friend Drink responsibly or not at all Find ways to grow beyond inherited limitations Develop an attitude of gratitude 
President of MacMillan appointed to ND council 
Special to The Observer 

William Reilly, Jr., president and chief operating officer of MacMillan, Inc., has been ap­pointed to the advisory council of the University of Notre Dame's College of Arts and Let­ters by University President Fa­ther Edward Malloy. 
Reilly graduated cum laude from Notre Dame in 1959 and earned an MBA degree from Harvard University in 1964. He has been president of MacMil­lan, one of the nation's largest textbook publishers, since 1981 after joining the firm as execu­tive vice president in 1980. 
From 1964-1980 he occupied a variety of executive positions with W.R. Grace & Co., includ­ing chief executive offer of Bekaert Tectile division, presi­dent of Herman's World of Sporting Goods, president of the !lome Center division and corporate vice president. 
A native New Yorker, Heilly was granted leave from Grace from 196 7-1969 to serve as the City of New York's assistant fi­nance administrator. 
Reilly's gift of $100,000 to Notre Dame in June 1989 established the William F. Heilly, Jr. Scholarships to bene­fit Hispanic students attending the University. 
Career Planning Workshop 
David Sikkenga, the recruiter from Electronics Data Systems Corporation, will present the following topics: 
Resume Writing Interviewing Skills Professionalism 
Sponsored by the Marketing Club The Marketing Club Meeting will begin at 6:45 All Club Members and Majors are encouraged to attend. 



@v1PUS 

Mediate my existence 
Get sacramental 
Make peace 
Volunteer 
Make a retreat 
Use the campus ministry prayer cards 
Be genuine 
Let go of something holding me back 
Listen 
Give away something I couldn't possibly part with 
Get some solidarity with the poor 
Feed the hungry 
Shelter the homeless 
Comfort the afflicted 
Celebrate, celebrate. Dance to the music. 
Develop a global consciousness 
Get out of myself 
Have a good year 

Brought to you uwc; m. &ICe M&mpus &mstry and Yh9 Observer 
,~---­






Viewpoint ~5
Tuesday,Janua~23, 1990 

P.0. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
'1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager __ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ___ . .Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager .Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blasi Systems Mgr .. Bernard BrennmKmeyer Photo Editor Enc Ba1ley OTS Director _Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstme G1ll Controller. . ..............Anne Lindner 
The Observer 1s the 1ndependent newspaper published by the students of the Umversi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICieS of the admtn1Strat10n of e1ther mstitutiOn The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1nion-of the maJority of the follow1ng Edltor-1n-Ch1ef Manag1ng Ed1tor. ExecutiVe News Editor, Viewpoint Ed1tor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Sam! Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of vary1ng opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Church's abortion stand subjugates women 
pression against women is re­cannot break out of their who bomb clinics where abor­these men -not all men, but By Kurt Mills instated. narrow view of the role of tions take place, those who op­some -are saying that women The Catholic Church has de­women and accept them on an press women in a thousand dif­are baby factories and, by Abortion is a major public is­creed that life begins at concep­equal footing in the church. ferent ways, and those who virtue of the fact that they in­sue and the Supreme Court, tion and that abortion is im­The issue is, indeed, that of would take away from half of vested a few minutes to con­which just opened a new term, moral. Other religions, includ­who decides. Will it be the Pope humanity the most fundamental ceive the fetus -whereas the will have the opportunity to ing other sects of Christianity, who, even more than most men freedom of all -the right to women has to invest the next significantly change the land­say something very different. cannot know how it feels to absolute control over one's nine months of her life -they scape of abortion and women's The Catholic Church has a right carry a baby (or care for a body guided by one's individual should be given power over rights. to tell its members whatever it baby), cannot understand what conscience. someone else's body. This, to Since Notre Dame is a wants; however, it, or any other it feels like to have an unwanted I will not say that abortion is me, is the height of arrogance 
Catholic affiliated institution, religious organization, does not pregnancy, whether from rape, not a tough issue, it is. and, indeed, cruelty and a basic abortion is also a major issue have the right to extend this to incest, or just the failure of However, more than anything disrespect for individual on campus. This illustrates the the general population. birth control (which the Pope else, it is tough on the woman. sovereignty. fact that abortion is, as much On the subject of oppression, also condemns). Or, will it be There have been a number of 
as anything else, an issue of re­it might be instructive to re­the woman, possibly with her cases recently where a husband One cannot truly have rights ligion for those who oppose mind ourselves that the lover or at least a caring or lover has, through legal in society until society recog­choice in abortion. Some people Catholic Church, or more cor­doctor, but just as likely, alone, means, tried to prevent an nizes the right to control one's would say that religion is not rectly, the church hierarchy, is scared, and with nothing but abortion from taking place. body. Those Catholics, and an issue, but the evidence sexist (women cannot be or­herself and her conscience to These men say that the baby is others, who believe in women's points to the fact that certain dained), homophobic (far from guide her -a conscience which as much theirs as it is the rights should realize that the people -the anti-choice people being recognized as a natural might derive from religious · woman's. I wonder how they most fundamental right of all -are trying to force their re­expression of love, convictions, or maybe from would feel if they could get for women is under attack. ligious views on society as a homosexuality is proclaimed other, no less worthy, sources. pregnant and their wives tried whole. immoral), positively medieval in The so called "pro-lifers" the same thing. I doubt they 
The issue comes down to one its outlook on many things, and claim that there is violence be­would agree with their own line Kurt Mills is a graduate student of who decides and whether or dominated by men -men, who ing done. Indeed, there is. It is of reasoning. In fact what is in the Institute for Interna­not a major vehicle of op-for all of their proclamations, violence perpetrated by those happening is that, in essence, tional Peace Studies. 

Student group enters opening stage 
Dear Editor: 
This letter expresses the hope for a "new" student organiza­tion beginning on campus this semester. The Notre Dame Stu­dent Players is an organization devoted to producing musical theater in which the acting, di­recting, technical work, and production tasks are performed by students. 
After some time without a musical theater program at Notre Dame, we are preparing to present the student body with enjoyable, high quality en­tertainment. 
Last year, the Student Players presented "Simon," an original musical which was written by Notre Dame students. Due to 
DOONESBURY 
its success, we have decided to produce shows on campus every year, with the help of the SUB performing arts department. Work has already started for. our spring production of "The Fantasticks," a well-known and well-loved musical which has been running off-Broadway in New York for 30 years. 
However, we need to find people, regardless of experi­ence, who want to be part of this endeavor. In order to pre­sent a quality show, we need actors, musicians, administra­tors (business manager, public­ity, etc.), and help in all techni­cal areas: lighting, set con­struction, props, and costumes. 
Interested Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students should 
LETTERS 

stop by the SUB office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center before Jan. 30 and complete an interest form. We will then contact you and fill you in on what our plans are for the semester. 
JeffMcGarrity Lisa McMahon 
Notre Dame Student Players
Jan. 18, 1990 
Caption illustrated journalistic bias 
Dear Editor, utilizing a word ("natives") that 
This ietter refers to a photo has pejorative connotations? I published on page 5 of the Jan. don't want to believe the photo 19 edition of The Observer. The editor intended to, in any way, caption of said photo read predispose the way the Notre "Meeting the natives." Dame community perceives the 
Given the present political si-people of Panama through this tuation now reigning in kind of tasteless remark. But Panama, the people of the as a Central American and United States, especially the especially as a Panamanian, I news media, ought to pay more consider it necessary to speak attention to the potentially out, especially in these painful negative connotations that and crucial times. sloppy journalistic bias may "Meeting the Panamanians" is breed. Honestly speaking, there a more appropriate caption are far more important issues since those "natives" have a still left to be addressed, that name. will have more of an impact on the Panamanian people. Irene Perurena 
Granted, this caption can be Institute for International interpreted in several different Peace Studies ways. But why tempt .the devil Jan. 19, 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Practical prayer is harder on the soles of your shoes than on the knees of your trousers.' 


Austin O'Malley 



Accent
page 6 Tuesday, January 23, 1990 
Horrifying realism in Stone's 'Born on the Fourth of July' 

JOE BUCOLO 
accent writer 

When it comes to wars, one in 
particular seems to always be 
the subject of romancn and 
themes of glory--thP Civil War. 
Now, Tri-Star Picturns presents 
a superb motion picture that 
explores not only the triumph 
of tlw War lktween the States, 
but also its destruction and 
brutality. 
Matthnw Broderick ("FPrris Bunllnr's Day OfT") stars in "Glory" as HobPrt Gould Shaw, a privileged Boston man who gons ofl' to war only to be disil­lusioned by the savage Battle of Antietam. Upon his rnturn home, Shaw is offered com­mand of the newly formed 54th Hegiment of Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, the Civil War's first black fighting unit. 
Healizing the great challenge in his new position, Shaw asks the help of his friend Cabot Forbes (Cary Elwes, "The Princess Bride"). The two begin to gather black recruits and train them for the only war on American soil. 
Two black men become very important in Shaw's struggle to maintain order in the regiment. John Hawlins (Morgan Free­man, "Lean on Me), a gravedig­g1~r Shaw met at Antietam, helps to encourage the men and remind them that they can con­tinun to act like "niggers" or rise to become proud black Americans. Denzel Washington ("Cry Freedom") stars as Trip, a runaway slave who learns to curb his hostility toward white mnn to serve his country. 
The film's excellence stems from the excellence of the actors. 
The film is excellent because it presents the regiment's war against not only the Confeder­ates, but the Northern whites who resent giving arms to black soldiers they believe can­not effectively fight. 
Viewers see the soldiers march in torn, tattered shoes because the leaders of the in­fantry insist there are no new ones to be distributed. In one moving scene as Shaw struggle to force others to take his reg­iment seriously, he storms a warehouse and demands shoes for his men. 
The film cleveriy reveals the struggles the black men, ready and willing to fight and die for America, had to endure. On pay day, the rngiment discovers that, because they're black, they'll be paid less than white soldiers. The men refuse to ac­cept a lower wage which is based on the belief that they are inferior. Tearing up his check, Shaw says if they won't accept the pay. neither will he. 
The film's excellence stems from the excellence of the ac­tors. Broderick is natural and believable in his role and Elwes' character adds a sarcastic and down-to-earth demeanor to the regiment. Washington's por­trayal is incredible. Viewers will be deeply moved as they watch Washington endure a brutal whipping. Freeman's perfor­mance is also uplifting as he unites the blacks and shows pride in his country. 
What also sets this movie 
JOE BUCOLO The confusion continues as accent writer Bon returns home. Peopln don't Another Vietnam movie? No, treat him nobly. Even his own 
not really. "Born on the Fourth family rejects him and he finds of July" is a movie in a himself in a world that for him 
category all its own. It is the is worse than death. story of shattered dreams and The film is also loaded with shattered lives, one of the most moving scenes. Most agree that 
intense films ever. the scenes surrounding Hon's 
Tom Cruise stars as Ron return home aftnr Vietnam are 

Kovic in the movie based on the the most emotional. The neigh­latter's book about his experi­bors run over to see Hon; his ences before, during, and after father breaks down at the sightVietnam. The film is Oliver 
of Bon in a chair; audience 

Stone's latest bout with the members wonder why they struggle and conflict that was didn't bring any tissue along.Vietnam. 
Another memorable scnne oc­

From the movie's first scene, curs when Hon and his friends viewers know they are in for an attend the Hepublican Conven­intense film. The first scene tion wlwre they are spat upon 
presents young Hon and his by Hepublkans at the meeting.friends playing war in a forest At that point, Hon 's convictions 
near their homes. With careful have made a complete turn­use of photography and music, around as he proclaims his the scene is chilling. The kids feeling against the war. are throwing rocks and stones There wnrn no winners in at one another; this is no chil­Vietnam and Oliver Stone bril­dren's game, but a haunting liantly drives this message
foreshadowing of things to home. UQiikn his othnr lilms 
come. 
where he takes a side and The film then follows Ron sticks with it. Stonn givns his through high school as he audiencp both sides of tlw coin 
struggles to be the bi)St in ev­and IPts tlwm judgP who-if erything from relationships to anyorw-in the film makes tlw wrestling. As high school ends, right decision. Hon decides to join the Marines and light in Vietnam. lie wants This is a story of human to defend his country and reap mnotion and Cruisn dol's an the 4{1ory dun to a veteran. outstanding job. I lis physieal 
Vietnam beconws a horrifying changes throughout tlw film rPality for Hon. lie witnesses parallPI his nmotional un1~s. the murder of innocent people, Whetlwr lw's struggling to win the wounding of a child, and a wrc~stling tourrwy, fighting to the utter chaos around him. lie fix a machine in tlw wtnran is later wounded and is hospital, or crying as lw hears paralyzed from the chest down. the scn~aming of a murdPn~d 
The film then foeusns on his baby in his mind, Cruise capti­struggle to accept lw will never vates his audience and actually walk again and to accept his beconws Hon Kovir. shattered dreams of what it is 
to defend our country. "lntPnsp" is thn only word to 
Several aspec:ts of the film describl' "Born on tlw Fourth stand out, not tho least of of July." From the bloody which is the confusion of SGPJWS in llw hospitals to tlw Vietnam. No one really knows heart-wmnching scenes in why America is involved. Kovie's dPad friend's honw, tlw Choppy photography during tlw film takPs tlw public on a terri­war scenes helps audiences to fyingly haunting emotional 
realize the chaos experienced mller coaster. This year's best during the war. The scenes are picture is "Born on tlw Fourth almost dizzying. of July." 
• the Civil War 

apart from others is its graphic 
depiction of the brutality and 
absurdity of the war. It sug­gests that the war was a first example of whites fighting so that blacks can be free. War scenes show men being shot and butchered. There is no ro­manticizing of the war which claimed more American lives than any other war. 
"Glory" is a triumph for all involved with it. It serves as an excellent showpiece for Tri­Star, its writers, and produc­ers. In addition, it presents raw moving characterizations and drums home both the destruc­tion of the civil War and the triumph of men who struggle to be treated as equals in a coun­try divided. 

l
j I I I I 
Not your run-of-the-mill .500 team 
Tennis team shows promise; Dilucia defeats No.1 man 

Missouri tops poll 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
Reflections upon a .500 win­ning percentage bring forth no­tions of mediocrity and an av­erage, not-so good, not-so bad team comes to mind. Yet when considering the Notre Dame men's tennis team record of 1­1, expectations are heightened and thoughts of national recognition surface. 
The bottom line is that it is a .500 team, but by no stretch of the imagination is it a run-of­the-mill collegiate tennis team. 
Notre Dame came within two tiebreakers of knocking off the best of collegiate tennis, the University of Georgia, and thumping the Mustangs of Southern Methodist. Throw in a singles victory over the No. 1 player in all of collegiate tennis and you have yourself a pretty darn good weekend. 
Notre Dame's loss came to 
the No. 2 team in collegiate 
tennis by a score of 3-6 in the 
American Airlines Classic at 
Chicago. The Irish dropped five 
of six singles matches. despite 
three of six going into the third 
set, and two going into 
tiebreakers. 
The three doubles tandems for the Irish, which had had less-than-stellar fall seasons, took two out of three matches from the Bulldogs, including Notre Dame's No. 1 duo, Dave DiLucia and Mike Wallace. They shocked Georgia's No. 1 team, which is No. 2 in the 
nation, 7-6, 4-6, 6-4. 
"Mike played the best I have ever seen him play," said DiLu­cia."He was super sharp and came up with some clutch shots. It was a great win for the team." 
"We used three different 
combinations than the fall," 
said Irish coach Bob Bayliss. 
"We practiced doubles a lot but 
the chemistry was not there. 
We had the right chemistry this 
weekend. 

"We have become more ag­gressive in our doubles and we poach less. Each team has a different role but the players take advantage of their individ­ual talents in a doubles envi­ronment." 
If Las Vegas had odds on 
who would win each match, 
probably no one would have 
put his money on Notre Dame's 
No. 1 player. Dave DiLucia, 
simply for the reason that he 
was pitted against· the No. 1 
collegiate player in the nation, AI Parker. 
DiLucia, who is ranked No. 44 nationally, surprised most collegiate tennis followers by beating Parker in three sets, 6­4, 1-6, 6-1. 
"I went out and took the match one point at a time," said DiLucia. 'That approach took a lot of pressure off me. I really didn't pay attention to the score. Coach Bayliss and the entire team were very sup­portive and instrumental in the 
win." 

Against Southern Meth-odist, the Irish convincingly handed the Mustangs a 6-3 loss. After singles play, the match was knotted at 3-3. 
The Irish swept the doubles 
competition and closed the 
door on the Mustangs. 
"Coming off the Georgia match, I knew we had a good chance to beat SMU." said DiLucia. "However. if we were a little bit off. SMU could beat us. After singles when it was tied 3-3, we did not want to let this match slip away. 
"We came up with a good 
win:. Coach Bayliss did an excel­
lent job preparing us for both 
matches," continued DiLucia. 
"He got us really ready to 
play." 


Buckle Up For Spring Break '90 
(AP)-Missouri, the only one of last week's top seven teams to win over the week­end, took over the No. 1 spot in The Associated Press col­lege basketball poll on Monday. 
The Tigers (17 -1) jumped from fourth after handing previously top-ranked Kansas its first loss of the season, 95-87, on Saturday. 
It is Missouri's first time as a No. 1 team since 1982 when the Tigers were on top for two weeks, the same pe­riod Kansas held the ranking this season. 
It just wasn't a good week to be a ranked team as 12 teams in the poll lost 15 games. 
Missouri received 56 first­place votes and 1,562 points from the nationwide panel of sportswriters and broad­casters, while Kansas (19-1 ). like Missouri a member of the Big Eight, dropped to the No. 2 spot with four first­place votes and 1,481 points. 
"Rankings are for play­ers," Missouri coach Norm Stewart said Sunday. "I don't have much respect for the polls but they are good 
for  the  players  and  the  
fans."  
It was  the first time  two  

teams from the same confer­
ence were 1-2 since North Carolina and Duke of the At­lantic Coast Conference were in those spots in January 1986. 
Georgetown (14-1), which had a chance at moving up one spot to No. 1 after Kansas' afternoon loss on Saturday, dropped to third after losing to Connecticut 70-65 on Saturday night. 
The Hoyas were the only other team to receive first­place votes, three, and they had 1,444 points. 
Louisville (14-2) jumped from 10th to 4th with 1,317 points and was followed by 
UNLV  (12-3).  which  was  
ninth  last  week  and  had  
1,162 points.  

Arkansas (14-2) jumped from 12th to 6th with 1,145 points, 16 more than Michigan (13-3), which dropped one place after los­ing at Iowa. 
Duke (13-3) stayed eighth and had 994 points, 31 more than Oklahoma (12-2), which dropped from the ranks of the undefeated and third in the poll to ninth with road losses to Kansas State and Arizona. 
Illinois (13-3), which also lost two games-Michigan and Purdue-dropped from seventh. 
The Observer accepts classifieds everj business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 


Clclssifieds 
NOTICES 
Word Processing Can return on disk Pick up and delivery 271-9114 
SUMMER JOBS OUNSELORS -Boys Camp, W. Mass. 1 Girls Camp, Maine Top Salary, Rm!Bd!Laundry. Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activities: Archery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Cheerleading, Dance. Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf. ~u~ar. Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback, Karate. Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano. Radio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing. Scuba, Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI. Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. Women call or write: Camp Vega, P.O. Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. 
WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OF BIG SCREEEN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO $1,400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!!! 
Objective: Fundraiser Commitment: Minimal Money: Raise $1 .400 Cost: Zero Investment 
Campus organizations, clubs, frats, sororities call OCMC: 1 (800)932-0528/1 (800)950-84 72. ext. 10 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
DAYJOIA BEACH '"""'f29• 
7 NIGHTS 
SOUrH PADII ISIAIID '"""'129. 
5 OR 7 NIGHTS 
STWIBOAT -•lol· 
2, 5 OR 7 NIGHTS 
FOIIT IAUDUDALI -'1J2. 
7 NIGHTS 
HILTOII HEAD ISWD ,,....'127" 
7 NIGHTS 
CORPUS tHIIm I IIUSTAIIC ISUIID 
5 OR 7 NIGHTS CALL lOLL FREE ID£loiY 
.1·800·!21·5911 
0
'Depending on Dteik cutes iltiCIIengt/1 of SUI! 
BE YOUR OWN BOSS! Distributorships, Dealerships, Money making opportunities, Franchises, & Mail order. Detail, send $2.00 to: National Marketing Company. Box 3006, Boston, MA. 02130 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
CASH FOR CARS, TRUCKS regardless of condition. 277-9954. 
USED TEXTBOOKS 
AT A DISCOUNT! Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of N.D. ave. and Howard 



I LOST/FOUND 1 
GLASSES LOST--BLACK CASE PLEASE CALL STEVE x1581 
•••Lost..•••••••..•••••To whoever picked up my overcoat at the party on the 4th floor of Fisher Sat. night, you have my 10, wallet, and keys. I would like to eat this week and would really appreciate it if you would return my coat. Thanks. And by the way, I have a blue Air Force overcoat to trade with you. Mark x2937. 
Found: blue, Air Force overcoat. Call Mark@ x2937. 
LOST SILVER ROSARY DURING FINALS!! PLEASE CALL IF YOU FOUND IT-MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. X4286 
LOST One gold and crystal bracelet on 1/17/90 between North Dining Hall and LaFortune. If found please call Liz at 4976. 
G~::~;entimental value, reward 

WANTED ' 
r 

ATIENTION-HIRING! Government jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838­8885. Ext. R6262. 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY 
READING BOOKS! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. Bk6262 
ATIENTION: EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLE WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868 
Earn $300-$500 per week Reading books at home. Call 1­615-473-7440 Ext. B340 
Earn $300-$500 per week reading books at home. Call1-615-473­7440 Ext. B340 BE ON T.V. many needed for commercials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. call (615) 779-7111 Ext. T-1481 
ATIENTION: EASY WORK EXCELLENT PAY' Assemble products at home. Details (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. W-6262 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY TYPING AT HOME! 32,000/yr income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. T -6262 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373 
GRAPHIC LAYOUT DESIGNER 
FOR NATIONAL MONTHLY 
PUBLICATION. 

Keylining,design,layout & 
darkroom knowledge preferred. 
flex hrs. 

House for 1990·91 school year 
Furnished, secure home, 5 
bedrooms, WID 
Close to NO 

Coimpetitive rent. 264-6010 
NORTHWEST -3-bdrm, gas heat, CIA, Refrigerator, washer/dryer, fenced yard, patio. $375/mo. plus utilities. Deposit required. 232­1208. 
House for 1990-91 school year. 
Furnished, secure home, 6 
bdrms., 2 baths, competitive rent. 
Close to NO. 234-6688. 
I 

fOR SALE 
lsitTrue...Jeepstor$44through the Government? Call for facts! 1­708-742-1142 Ext. 7316 
1986 BUICK SKYLARK. 4-DOOR, AM-FM STEREO CASSETIE, 44,000 MILES. POWER STEERING & POWER BRAKES. 272-5651. MAKE OFFER. 
US Air roundtrip plane 
ticket good anywhere in U.S. 
until March 30th 
call Rod x4073 

75 Volvo 164E. Classic styling, high miles, some rust. $1200. Call 289-9067. Leave messaae. 


PERSONALS 
SPRINGBREAK SAILING 
BAHAMAS 
45ft Captained Yachts 
Groups of Eight 
Seven Days Barefoot in the 
Bahamas 
$455.00 each All Accommodation & Meals SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE 
1-800-999-7245 Anytime 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512 
Parrot Heads Forever!!! 
SELL ME YOUR BOOKS x3442 HISTORY: Holding the line by Alexander. Decade of Disillusionment by Heath, US at war, 1941-45 by Hess, Great Expectations by Jones, Presidency of Harry S Truman by McCoy. ENGLISH: Tocqueville's Democracy in America, Melville's Redburn, Hawthorne's Marble Faun, Portrait of a Lady, Sun Also Rises, Kafka's Amerika 
If you are taking these classes I can sell you the books cheaply: HIST "Women's Place in America" Prof. Hoy, GOTH Intra to Advertising Prof. Thurin. Call x3442. 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
$5.00 HAIRCUTS 
NO STUDENTS WELCOME 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST, S.B. 
233-4767 
HI LAURA GRITZ­GUESS WHO? IT'S US AGAIN. BRING US BACK A PIECE OF THE BERLIN WALL, OKAY? SEE YOU IN ABOUT 8 MONTHS!! LOVE, PITA, HOOLS, AND LAHEESA 
RIDE NEEDED 
to U of Illinois 
Jan 26 or Feb 2 
Will pay$$ 
Call Lynn •3949 
THE U.S. CONSTITUTES 6% OF 
THE WORLD'S POPULATION 
BUT CONSUMES 48% OF ITS 
RESOURCES. DO YOU CARE? 
C.S.C. ACTIVITIES NIGHT JAN. 25 JUNIORS 
JUNIORS 
CHICAGO TRIP 1/27-1/28 
TIX ON SALE NOW AT 
JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE 
LIMITED SUPPLY 
DON'T MISS IT!! 
hi ag 
KERRY BROWN turns 20 on the 24th'!!!!!!!! 

And... SEAN BROWN turns 21 on Feb. 8th!!!!! HAPPY B'DAY! 
Any male interested in trying out for Irish Accent's performance of See How They Run, memorize a 1­2 min. mon. and be at Holy Cross Hall7:00 Tues 23. Q? x3150. 
RIGHT TO LIFE Phone-a-then organizational meeting 9 pm Tues 1/23 Montgomery Theater LaF MANDATORY FOR DORM REPS 
female student needed to share Campus View apt. for remainder of semester call 2774322 
LOCKERS LOCKERS LOCKERS Only $2.50 for the rest of the school year' Available at the Information Desk in LaFortune. 

NEED A BREAK ALREADY? Go to Chicago on the Windy City Shuttle' $10.00 atthe 
Information Desk in LaFortune. 
SUMMER JOB FAIR! CCE­Wed., January 24 -1 :00-5:00 Bring copies of profile or resume and discuss'oppor­tunities with company reps. 

Think Summer! Think Summer Intern! Opportunities to meet company representatives at the SUMMER JOB FAIR -Wed., January 24 at the CCE 1:00 ·5:00p.m. 
Summer Interns needed! Company recruiters will be at the SUMMER JOB FAIR to discuss summer opportunities. Bring copies of profile or resume -· Wed., January 24 1:00 -5:00 p.m. -CCE. 
HITOPH !!!! HAVE A SUPEOR DAY!!! 
WANTED: 
One male and one female lifesize, anatomically correct mannequins at the Senior Class Office by Friday, Jan. 26. The first person to bring both mannequins during office hours, 3-5 Mon.-Fri. receives a FREE Senior Formal bid. No questions asked. 
just when you thought· it was safe to dance 
THEYRE BACK 
thats right 
Ballroom Dance Club invites you to have more fun than a human being is allowed to have Join us at Rockne 
Tue Jan 30 7pm rm219 
JUNIORS!!! JUNIORS!!! Anyone interested in helping with the Runaway Shelter service project there will be a meeting TONIGHT at 7:00 in the Sarin rm in LaFortune: Get involved--Be there! JUNIORS!!! JUNIORS!!! 
Sesquicentennial Year Celebration 
Application for Student Executive Committee 
Due Friday, January 26, 4:00 
Membership: Junior -Co-chair Soph. -Co-chair, plus 3 Junior Reps. 3 Soph. Reps. 3 Fresh Reps. 
Pick up your application today and complete it by Friday! 
Happy 15th Birthday Bridgets! Come help us bring in the new semester by celebrating this "SPECIAL" week at Bridgets. 
WOMEN MAKE 69 CENTS TO EVERY $1.00 MEN MAKE. DO YOU CARE? C.S.C. ACTIVITY NIGHT JAN.25 
VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give that special guy the best Valentine of all -yourself -in a glamour portrait by a nationally published model photographer. Details and free brochure. Joe Ringer. 287-0613. 


page 8 The Observer SPORTS BRIEFS 
Sailing Club will meet at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday in 204 O'Shag. Plans for the 1990 Commodore's Ball will be discussed. 
WVFI-AM 640 will hold Sportstalk at 8 a.m. tonight. The subject will be Super Bowl XIV. The number is 239-6400. 
Blue and Gold cards are available at the Gate 10 ticket office at the JACC and at tonight's wrestling meet. The card costs $5 and is good for admission to hockey, wrestling, women's basketball and baseball action. 
Bookstore Basketball will have a meeting at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the Notre Dame Room of Lafortune for students interested in applying for commissioner. 
Call 234-9716 for more information. 
Irish Outdoors will meet at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Jan. 30 in Theodore's. Plans for the upcoming 

WE"DLIKETO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
·nw w,>rds wr u,·r ~· 



EDUCATION FOR THE 

RFAL WORLD 

ski trip will be announced. Call 271-9901 for more information. 
Novice crew will meet today in 104 O'Shag for all students interested in rowing this semester. Call 289-2815 for more information. 
Taekwondo Club will practice at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the fencing gym of the JACC. Begin­ners are welcome. Call x1878 for more informa­tion. 
Hapkido Club meets at 8 p.m. tonight in Room 219 Rockne Gym. Call x3597 for more in­formation. Beginners are welcome. 
Sailing Club meets at 6:30 p.m. tonight in 204 O'Shag. Plans for the 1990 Commodore's Ball will be announced. 
Buckle Up For Spring Break '90 
0be Ne\tt lork~imts 
' Subscribe to The New York Times at a SOo/o dis~ounted student rate. Papers will be delivered by 8:00 to dorms, faculty offices and mailboxes. 

spring term  
Monday-Friday  $17.25  
Monday-Saturday  $20.25  
Monday-Sunday  $50.25  
Sunday only  $30.00  

For more information call: Tom Mustillo 146 Keenan Hall 283-3258 
How would you sum up your 25 years of marriage in one word? 
{3ad: Wonderful ~.. Workable 
~af11M125~ ;4~1 
Love you, Beth 
Tuesday, January 23, 1990 
Wrestlers 
continued from page 12 
points in each meet. 
Without Radenbaugh in the lineup, Notre Dame went 2-4 in dual meets. Radenbaugh re­turned for last weekend's Ne­braska match, but it was not enough to keep the Irish from losing to the nation's fourth­ranked team. 
On the California trip, Notre Dame lost 21-15 to Cal Poly San Luis Obispo and 27-17 to Fresno State. The Irish had placed ahead of both those schools in the Southern Cali­fornia Invitational. 
Notre Dame closed the Cali­fornia stay with a 19-16 victory over Stanford. , 
After returning to the Mid-WP.St, the Irish still had to wres­tle without Radenbaugh for three matches. In those three matches, the Irish lost 21-13 to sixth-ranked Oklahoma, fell 21­15 to Michigan State, and de­feated Missouri 25-15. 
Radenbaugh returned for last weekend's match with No. 4 Nebraska, and he posted a 1-1 draw with John Buxton, the 11th-ranked 118-pounder in the nation. It didn't make much of a difference, however, as the Cornhuskers pummeled the Irish 30-8. 
Senior Pat Boyd, a defending 
·All-American, is ranked third nationally in the 142-pound di­vision. Boyd has recorded a 20­3 mark this season, and all of his losses have come to wrestlers ranked first in the nation at one point in thl' year. 
Notre Dame Student Government needs volunteers to help compose new teacher course evaluation booklet. Good opportunity for student government experience while making a difference in the NO community. 
Call Glenn Abeln at #1521 for more Info. 
I 



HalfOfThisYear's Medical School Class GotThere WithOurHelp. 
Attempting to study for the MCAT alone would be nearly impossible_ Attempting to study without Stanley H. Kaplan would simply be a bad career move. 
Maybe it's our 50 years of experience. Our small classes. Or the advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the country. 
Whatever it is, if medical school is your future, Stanley Kaplan can help you start practicing right now. 
I.STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Cllances 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
RESER YE YOUR PLACE 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 



I
l 
r 

ND swimmers take two over weekend; enjoy new surge 
By JANICE ARCHER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame's men's and women's swim teams got back on the winning track this week­end with impressive victories over Northern Illinois and Cleveland StaiR. 
Friday's nw.et, at Northern Illinois, eMU down to the final relay for iJae ~n. who pulled together to win 151.5-148.5. 
"I'm very proud," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. "Not only does it take physical energy to be involved in such a good con­test. but great emotional energy is needed in such a close race." 
Brian Rini turned in one of 

the top performances of the 
meet, with victories in the 100­
Mongo 
continued from page 12 
well." McGraw said. "She doesn't mind putting in extra time before practice or staying late after and it shows in her play because she has made great strides since last year. 
"Siw's lf!arning more about shot selection. about what shot is good for her, and is doing a great job insi(h~. I'd like to see lwr grabbing nine or ten rn­bounds a game and I know that stat is within her grasp." 
Nowlin's presnnce will b1~ son~ly 1weded tonight as thP Irish trawl to Dayton to take on the Flyers in the first of two MCC contests scheduled this season. 

Fencers 
continued from page 12 
"as they continue to fare quite well in each competition." 
While the aforementioned men's epee and women's and men's foil teams captured first­place honors, the sole letdown of the weekend could perhaps be the inconsistency of th11 sabre squad. Despite the return of junior All-Amerkan Leszek Nowosielski, the Irish sabre­men had to settle for third and fourth place split-squad fin­ishes. 
After compiling a phenomenal 48-0 record over the first two years, Nowosiclski had his first tastns of d1!feat despite tallying an improssive 12-3 mark. Sophomon~ Ed Baguer linished 12-5 and .lames Taliaferro went 14-4, while sabre captain Chris Baguer completed the tournament 10-4 for tlw second squad. 
"W1~ don't really have what I'd call a 'soft spot' in any part of our lim~up," said DeCicr.o. "But on the other 1~nd of the spectrum, we don't have the kind of outstanding individuals that I can see vying for the in­dividual gold medals." 
The rnnnwed resurgence of the Irish fencers has brought a new and surprising headache for Dd:ieeo: how to keep these kids from riding high on the wavn of their nflw sueeess. 
"It'll bfl a challenge to keep thorn in the training mode, to keep them anehored to the ground,ff stated DeCicco. 
Thfl Irish fencers will enjoy a two-we11k repri11ve before their next competition on February 10. 
Assistant fencing coach Mike Marx recently captured top honors at a USFA cirr.uit event held in Louisville, Kentucky. In doing so, he accrued enough circuit points to qualify as a member of the World Team. Furthermore, Marx jumped up to the number-one national ranking in men's foil. 
yard freestyle (9:49.20) and the 500-yard freestyle (4:46.66). John Godfrey was also impres­sive, placing first in the 100­and 200-yard backstrokes. 
The women's squad also de­feated Northern Illinois, the first time in five years, by the score of 166-128. Freshman Tanya Williams led the Irish with three wins in the 200 but­terfly, 200 backstroke, and the 200 individual medley. Shana Stephens, Tracie O'Connell and Christine Van Patten each took a first place spot in their events. 
Two victories in the three-meter and one-meter diving events proved to be key ones for sophomore Jenny Kipp. She qualified on Friday night for 

All are invited to the: 
Knights of Columbus 
Open House. 
7-10 pm, Tuesday and Wednesday at the Knights of Columbus Hall, located next to the Bookstore. There will be refreshments. 




Hap,y 21st Birthday, 
/lli)~cfl 
08)C!3CD[pCDm!Jg 
Love, Mom, Dad, Jim, Deb, Celanire, Kirk, John, Joe, 


Attention ND/SMC Pre-Law Society Members 
There will be a meeting tonight at 7:00 in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Dean Mclean of the ND Law School and an admissions officer from De Paul Law School will be the 
guest speakers. All are strongly encouraged to attend. 
the Zone Diving Me~t th~t will be held at the Umversity of Michigan on March 9-10. To qualify for the national cham­pionships, divers follow a dif­
ferent procedur~· than swim­mers, who qualify by times. Points are given at each diving event, and Kipp has gained enough to compete in the Zone Meet. At this meet, divers vie for spots at the national cham­pionships. 
The Irish returned to campus for the first of a four-meet homestand against Cleveland State. The men's squad domi­nated their opponents 143-92. Outstanding performances by Ed Veome helped lead the squad as he notched wins in both the three and one meter diving events. 
Other notable performers included Ed Broderick who won the 200 individual medley with a time of 1:57.56. The skilled team of Godfrey, Tom Penn, Broderick and Jim Birmingham combined to give the Irish the 400-yard medley relay victory (3:35.01). 
The women's team improved their record to 7-4 by soundly defeating Cleveland State by the score of 149-85. Eight Notre Dame swimmers were victori­ous in their events, overpower­ing the visiting team. 
Both teams returned from Northern Illinois very late on Friday night, only to get up early the next day to face Cleveland State. 
Kaihra Goodman and 5-11 sophomore Lisa Green, who are averaging 9.6 and 8.9 points per outing, respectively. 
Notre Dame will try to counter the Flyers with floor general Karen Robinson, who leads the Irish fast break at­tack in points and passing. Hobinson leads the Irish with 
14.4 points per gam<~ and has dished out a team-high 59 as­sists thus far. 
Juniors Krissi Davis and Sara Liebscher have added to the 
COUNSELINE Volunteers Wanted!!! 
************* 
We'll begin operating again soon. We still have 2 hour shifts to filL So if... 
-Your want to help provide a valuable community service to NQ.SMC -You can spare just a couple of hours of easy volunteer work in a nice study environment (the number and manner of handling calls is rarely demanding) -Your could use something extra to look nice on your resume or application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 
...then ask for Bryan at the University Counseling Center or just leave a message. 239-7336 
."It. i~ a very good sign of diSCiphne, morale and team commitment that the teams could come back after that," notes Welsh. "It is an excellent sign that preparations are go­ing well for a championship season." 
The Irish will continue their rigorous homestand on Wednesday against lllinois-Chicago, who have never beaten either the men or women's teams. 
"I expect the women's meet to be a close one," said Welsh, "but I favor the Irish because of their strength and balance. Our men's team is larger, and can race every event on the program well." 
well-balanced attack, adding 
10.4 and 8.3 points per game, respectively, while combining for 159 total rebounds. 
"I know we're short on play­ers, but the team is handling the adversity extremely well," McGraw said. "We may have a small bench. but no mattf•.r how many players I have, we're go­ing to run the bn~ak and h~arn to run it even better. 
"Things have been going well so far, now we just have to firw tunn our mo." 
The Irish have preserved a perfect 4-0 conference record by beating Marquette twice, downing Loyola 85-72 and manhandling Butler (3-1) 7 4­59. 
On paper. it would appear that Dayton, who enters the game 2-2 in conference play, would be the next sacrificial victim for an Irish squad who has been a dominant force since it entered the MCC last season. 
But McGraw hesitates to count the Flyers out, especially when playing in their territory. 
"They always play us tough no matter what their record is," McGraw said. "We can't look past them because they are a very physical team and they always play well at home." 
The Irish will have to concen­trate their efforts on 5-10 se­nior Anette Melvin who is aver­aging 12.4 points and 5.8 re­bounds per game. Melvin is get­ting some help from 5-11 junior 


CROSSWORD
CAMPUS 

The Notre Dame 
We are looking for: Student Players Actors Musicians 
announce the Spring 1990 production of 
Stage manager, Business manager Ushers
THE 
FANTASTICKS 
Technical Crews: Costumes, Makeup & Props Lighting, Set construction, Publicity 
And many others for this show and all future productions! 
Tuesday 
4 p.m.: Workshop on Researching Employers at Career & Placement Services Conf. Room by Jeff Rice, Assistant Director, Career & Placement. 
6:30 
p.m.: Workshop on Effective Interviewing at Hesburgh Library Lounge by Kitty Arnold, Director of Career & Placement. This workshop will cover the types of questions typically asked during an interview. 

6:30 
p.m.: Film "Dante's Inferno," and "Polidor Shorts" in the Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 


7:30 p.m.: Faculty Senate Meeting in Room 210 Center for Continuing Education. 
7:45 p.m.: Film, "Putney Swope" in the Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. Admission. 
9:30 p.m.: Film, "un Chien and Alou," "Meshes of the Afternoon," and 'The End" in the Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. Admission. 
Wednesday 
12:10 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 

CP.,L'4\~, ~()1.) 
1 WISt\ I ~RE '{C>V IN ARt so Wt.\RI:l I'M ~C)T l't-\ NOT £.\IE~ CP..L'J\N. 
GC>\"G W TRK TO ~()1.). 


ACROSS 33 Some are liberal 34 Vendor
1 Poker stake 
5 Cut off 

36 Opposite of taboo
8 Cousin of lotto 37 "Frivolous" one
12 Appear 

ofsongdom 13 Make happy 
38 Margins15 Roman road 
39-Kahn, 16 Cleansing agent lyricist 
17 Puppeteer Shari 40 Hot time in Nice 
41 Couch potato's18 Accommodate 
activity 19 Presley film: 
42 Two cups1964 43 Office furniture 
22 Mimickings 45 Prepare flax 24 S.F.-to-L.A. dir. 

46 Great Italian 
25 Stings 

poet 26 Summit 
47 Large Hawaiian 29 Build hawks 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
THE FAR SIDE 


When referees go home at night. 
mh::-tn+.=-1 11 Table scraps -..--L.............. 13 Otherwise 
bunch of inbre:::l, bra·.n\es..s uetiV\S"!.. If1-{gl;nes.s wcu a ~enalry, you•d all foul out! fie.y! Refl\e~Y~ber: you cal') get q_u.ick help by cqllilflj 1-960-Co,ta.racts! 
49 Like some mixed drinks 51 C. Grant film: 1957 56 A Gershwin and Levin 57 Circa 58 Bedouin 61 Turner of films 62 Car for the opulent 63 Chapeau holder 

64 Something unique 
65 Terminate 
66Where Eve grieved 
DOWN 
1 Silly person 2 New: Comb. form 3 Pots for boiling water 4 Dominions 5 Fine linen 6 Auditory 7 Mexican money 8 One who osculates 9 Needle case 10 No, in Neuss 

14 Spear fisherman 20 Sonny's sib 21 Employers 22 Degraded 23 Henry Morgan 
was one 27 This might be 
golden 28Abundant 30Guided 
construction 31 Noblemen 
SPELUNKER 

32 Takes a sip 34 Kind of bean or sauce 35 Unit of work 
38 Stupefy 42 Shaped like a hand with the fingers spread 44 Five-stringed African lyre 
46 German article 
48 Partake 
50 Collapsible beds 51 Thousand: Comb. form 
52Teheran is its capital 53 Rational 
54 Black, in poesy 
55 Shape 
59 0lympic 
mischief-maker 60 Actor Gazzara 
JAY HOSLER 

Anyone interested should stop by the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune, and complete a short interest form by JJ&mrn&rr;, 3®tlihl. 
-


.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­-









Sports
page 12 Tuesday, January 23, 1990 
ND fencers flying high; performance 'simply incredible' 
By CHRIS FILLIO sabre and foil teams against formanee was astounding in it­mon phenomrmon, sPnior cap­at 14-4 on the day. Sports Writer defending national !'.hampion self. the women as a whole ap­tain Anne Barreda led tlw "I think w1~'ve finally proven Columbia. and an incredible 9-0 pear to be asserting themselves eharge with a 17-2 finish. that wn can rally in a big way 
In tlwir first rompntition of whitewashing by the women's as a strong team, and not just Senior Kristin Kralicek and ju­on tlw road," said foi I captain the nnw s1~m!'ster. tlw Irish squad against number-two one or two good individuals. nior Lynn Kadri were equally Joel "tlw Slayer" Clark. whosP fpncing squads assertnd them­seeded Tmnple. Previously, DeCicco stated impressive at 13-4 and 14-5. 14-2 mark and 7X-IJ carPer snlvns in dominating fashion by "We certainly did b1~tter than that it would be critical for the resp'ectively. record may well support his capturing three of four top­we had anticipated," said Irish women to accomplish just that "I think our women's team is sPif-prodainwd nickname. place finishes at two meet head coach Mike DeCicco, who over the course of the season. a little doser to where we want Tlw top linislwr for llw men's events held at Penn State received several favorable im­"The women's team this them to be than any other epee squad was once again University, onn dual meet pressions from opposing weekend was simply incredible," squad we have," said DeCicco. David CalderhPad at I lJ-5 for against Columbia and Duke, coaches. "Anyone who looks at said assistant coach Mike "And if anyone in the cnuntry the weekPnd. while sophomorl' and a USFA event. these results, espeeially against Marx. "They could have won expects to win the individual Jubba Beshin was 15-6. In ad­
"We simply took out the Duke and Columbia, has to be the national championship with gold medal, they're going to dition, both Mark Gugel (3-6) brooms this weekend. Sweep. happy with what was accom­a performance like that!" have to contend with Anne and Geoff' Peehinsky (4-6) are swPt~p!" said foil captain Joel plished. Initially I was con­Other coaches and players Barreda first." making a strong bid for notieP Clark. cerned about the six week lay­a~~eed with Marx's sentiment., Continuing the Irish domi­as third man in epne. picking up 
Indel'd. the performance off. But I guess the kids took We were such a team nance was the men's foil team kl'y victorins along thn way. serv1~s notin~ to the rest of the carP of that concern." stated sophomore lleidi Piper. behind the impetus of junior "Mark and Geoff arP cPrtainlv coiiPgiate elite that the Irish If any group could conceiv­who went 14-1 on the wm~kend. Phil Leary, who set thn pace trying to rnakn things tough for arn a force to bP reckoned with. ably be singled out. it would "It was just amazing the way it with a 14-3 mark. Senior Derek rnn as a eoarh," said I>PCi!'!'o, lnrludPd in tlw wenkend tally haVP be1~n the femaln foilists all came together." Holeman went 13-6, while 
see FENCERS I page 1 0 
wPrP vif'tories by tlw men's this w1wkend. While their per-In what has become a com-freshman Noel Young finished 
Ferris St.

Mongo bashing boards Young center increases role on team 
up next for 


wrestlers 

By MOLLY MAHONEY game kriowing I've got to hold 
Assistant Sports Editor my own against bigger players 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
and that we're going to be in 
Associate Sports Editor 

Shn is one of only two trouble if I foul and don't play players ovl'r 6 f'ent tall lpft on well. But I try not to think 
Looking to roturn to tho win­llw injury-plagul'd Notrn DamP about that and just play hard." 
ning ways it enjoyed lwforP llw women's basketball tnam. Shn Nowlin, a sophomore from winter holidays, tlw NotrP and her SI'VPn remaining team­St. Paul, Minn. has been a con­Dame wrpstling tPam hosts matl~s must play a rag-tag sistent force for the Irish (9-5) Ferris Statn tonight at 7:30 in tnam of managers and gradu­offensively, shooting almost 50 the Joyrn ACC. 
al!' assistants just to complete percent from the field to tally Wlwn students loft rampus.
daily drills in praetiee. And to 10.2 points pnr game, while the wrnsth~rs wore ranked 15th 
make matters worsn, her n1~tting 71 percent of her free 
in llw nation. Thn Irish opPrwd
frimrds-not her enPmies-af­throws. 
a West Coast trip in early .Jan­
f'ectionatPiy n~fcr to her as With a nickname like Mongo, uary by winning the I 1-tl'am 'Mongo' on a regular basis. it only follows that Nowlin has 
Soutlwrn California Invita­
But Margan~t Nowlin doesn't owrwd the boards for the Irish tional. Since then. it's bPnn 
complain. thus far, pulling down 7.6 re­mostly downhill !'or tlw Irish. 
She enjoys the ehallenge of bounds per game. But rebound­Notre Damn has won just two !wing a small 6-foot-1 eenter ing is one facet of her game of its last seVPn dual me1~ts. 
often dwarfed by lwr competi­Nowlin hopes to improve. 
falling to :~-5 on the season. 
tors and thinks fadng Sandy "I know coach wants me to The Irish lost two of three 
Botham-a former Irish bas­be a better rebounder, espe­matches in California. and has 
ketball player and present cially on the offensive end of 
since gone 1-:3 against mid­
graduate assistant-is a great the floor," Nowlin said. "And I western tnams. 
learning experienee. definitely want to concentrate Part of the problem for thP And. you guessed it, she likes on my defense and convert on Irish was the absence of senior 
being called Mongo. all the good passes I've been Andy Radenbaugh. The 118­"I've tried to be optimistic getting lately." 
pounder, who boasts an 11-2 about everything that has hap­Nowlin has never been one to record this season, was unable pened to us this season," shy away from hard work-one to make his weight for five Nowlin said. "The loss of so thing which Irish head coach matches, including all the Cali­many players has helped make Muffet McGraw likes to sec in fornia dual meets. Hadtnr­
us really close and I ean't com­her young center. 
baugh 's absnnce meant a forfeit plain about playing someone as "Margaret's strength is that in the 118-pound draw, which 
good as Sandy everyday be­she is a smart player, but she gave the opposition
The Observer I Steve Moskop a free six 
cause she's pushing me to im­has a very good work ethic as prove. Notre Dame sophomore Margaret "Mongo" Nowlin takes the ball to the "It's hard going into the see MONGO I page 1 0 hoop earlier this season against Tennessee. see WRESTLERS I page 8 
Irish 'back against the wall' at 8-6; Denver on the line 
•. 
The dream is threatening to 
---------------­turn into a nightmare for the Notre Dame men's basketball 
team. 

The route to Denver, site of this year's Final Four, has taken dPtours in such cities as Milwaukee, Omaha, Philadel­phia and Indianapolis. Six losses in 14 games have re-GREG GUFFEY suited in discontent among the Assistant Sports Editor 
Irish faithful. Last weekend. the Irish trav--------------­eled to New Orleans for a 
showdown with Bth-ranked Lousiana State. A vic­tory would have ended the six-game road swing on a winning note and also attracted national attention. 
But the Tigers overpowered the Irish on the inside, with workhorses Stanley Roberts and Shaquille O'Neal combining for 35 points and 22 rebounds. Notre Dame struggled on the offensive end, connect­ing on just 34 percent of its shots. The result was an 87-64 loss. 
Even Notre Dame roach Digger Phelps is the first to say it would be easy for people to criticize, easy to point fingers at possible reasons for the problems surrounding this team. 
But Phelps also knows that approaeh will not re­
sult in any additions to the win column. He knows 
there is a lot of basketball left in this season, a lot 
of trips before the pairings are set in the Hocky 
Mountains. 
"The most important thing for us is to play and 
snap out of this thing and get it going," Phelps said. 
"I don't think you can pinpoint a 'why.' I think the 
thing to do with these kids is to give thfun confidence 
and then stick with it." 
Notre Dame took a S-3 ledger on the road at the 
beginning of 1990. The Irish went 3-3 on that trip, 
losing to Creighton, La Salle and LSU. 
They showed flashes of great play in all three 
games, but could not sustain that play for the entire 
contests. That's something that troubles Phelps be­
cause he knows what could have happened if they 
had put together consistent 40-minute games, espe­
cially against the Tigers. 
"We did some good things," he said. "But there 
are things that we're doing that we shouldn't be do­
ing. At times, we're not making the right decisions -at the right time. We got embarrassed by the end score (at LSU). Now maybe we'll get mad. "The showtime is over. We're back to the wall. We're 8-6. Now let's just go out and do it." The Irish will get the chance to do that Wednesday 
night against Wichita State in the first of a three­game homestand. They meet Miami (Fla.) on Satur­
day and then Dayton next Tuesday. · 
"It's easy to be critieal and easy to second-guess," Phelps said. "Hopefully the students will give this team support like it did for the UCLA game (an 86­84 victory). It's important not to get down on us. We have eight games left at home, and the student body ean win those games for us." 
Notre Dame has 14 games remaining and several name teams on the schedule, including Duke, Syra­cuse, Georgia Tech, Missouri and Kentucky. Add to that list two games against De Paul and contests with Marquette, Dayton, SMU and Houston and the Irish have their work cut out for them. 
But this is one task that is not impossible. This team has shown how good it can be, evidenced by last season's NCM tourney games against Vander­bilt and Georgetown. 
"We're looking for the combinatiofl to click," Phelps said. "The most important thing is knowing what we can do and can be. They've been there be­fore. It's just getting it back. This is a good team." 
And the next month-maybe even the next two weeks-will tell just how good this Notre Dame team is. 




