
WEDNESDAY , DECEMBER 5, 1990 VOL. XXIII NO. 64 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Former governor Babbit returns to NO to speak 
By COLLEEN GANNON 
News Writer 
Americans havn accepted that it is tlw business of government to do nothing. former Arizona Governor Bruc1~ Babbit said Tuesday. 
"It was the right thing to do, becaus11 I had something to say," s1~id Babbit in rderenee to his candidacy in the 1988 presidential Plection. Although lw rm:ognized the long odds for winning. Babbit said he entered tlw raen to convey a message. 
"l'olitieal leaders in this eountry are not talking up to thfl Amflrican elflctorate. We am a society fnmm in compla­ceney," hfl said. According to Babbil, Americans have ac­cept!Jd "that the sole function of government is to maximize 


English majors sidestep many of DART's faults by pre-registering 
opportunity and income." 
"I am troubled by the inability of our political leaders to lay out simple truth to the American people about where we are in this world, about our inability to match spending and income," he said. 
Leaders need to say that the United States cannot continue to live beyond its means, Babbit said. According to Babbit, leaders need to tell Americans that the reason government consumes so much of our in­come is not because of people of welfare or people of poverty, but "because we created a huge infrastructure of entitlement programs for the middle class." 
"We have to sharpen our fo­cus about doing something about the people on the streets of this land that do need help," 


By MONICA YANT 
Associate News Editor 
A eornmitment to maintaining a strong. personal advisory systtHn has lP.d to a pre-regis­tration proeess for English majors to avoid many of the cornpliel!tions of DAHT. said .JosP.ph Buttigi11g, department chair. 
Each of thP :H, full-time fac­ulty mPmbP.rs within the de­partnwnt advises between 15 and 18 students. Buttigieg said. ThP. advisors have traditionally assistPd studnnts in choosing what classes tlwy will takP. to­ward completing their major. 
Tlw advisory systPm is mw of tlw rPasons studPnts say they d11elare English as a major. ButligiPg said. "Thny don't fen! so lost." he said of the system which allows majors to get to know tlwir prof11ssors on a one­to-one l11V11l. 
ThP introduction of DAHT, howPver. threatened this sys­tPrn. 


ReQistration '90: : 
. . . 
·DART and other 
. . . . . . 
:problems:
~ 
·-· 
"When DAHT was put into operation. we saw absolutely no relation between what our advising was telling students to do and what they were doing," he said. Buttigieg noted that students would decide upon classes with their advisor, only to be denied the courses during registration and forced to reg­ister for classes they had no in­terest in. 
So as not to risk losing the strength of the advising system, the English department ap­proached the Hegistrar's office for a compromise. "After all, the University claims to be very interested in advising," Buttigieg said. "we didn't want to throw it away." 
The result was a unique pre-
Bruce Babbit 
he said. 
However, Babbit said Americans cannot get some­thing for nothing. "Of course we have to raise taxes," he said. 
Babbit, a former Notre Dame 
registration process that allows English majors to ehoose their classes within the department before DART registration begins. "We have linked advising with registration in a way that the DART system would not have enabled us to do," Buttigieg said. 
English majors receive pre­registration information and schedule appointments with their advisors before October break. The pre-registration process itself is staggered like DART, starting with the seniors. 
Pre-registration begins before 8 a.m., but the earlier students form the line outside the English office, the better chance they will ha.ve to register the classes of their choice. 
Janice O'Leary, a junior, be­gan waiting at 11 p.m and said she was approximately the 15th person in line that night. "That's the only reason I got my classes," she said of her all­night wait. 
see ENGLISH I page 8 
student body president and resident of Zahm Hall, said, "I came to Notre Dame as a product of a Catholic experi­ence." He said that he grew up in a Catholic Church driven by rules. 
In his first year at Notre Dame, he said that he found two faces of the Catholic Church. "One face was an ex­tension of the Catholic Church that I grew up in," he said. "The Church was obsessed with authoritarian tradition," he added. 
Another face of Catholicism that Babbit observed "seemed to emphasize the sacramental quality of faith and worth." 
Babbit said he then became acquainted with "the idea that Catholicism is not rules." Events occurring in his life at 


Ready for winter 

that time, "slowing drew me to the notion that my sense of Catholicism really did relate to a eertain sense of obligation projected outward onto other people," he said. 
"I left here (Notre Dame) carrying that expnrience with me," Babbit said. 
Although he lost the election, Babbit said he learned some­thing from it. "The 1988 cam­paign never went anywhere," he said. According to Babbit. the campaign's inability to get off the ground fated his party for failure. "Nobody wanted any change," he said. 
"To state a problem is some­how seen as admitting that perhaps there is a painful solu­tion, perhaps there will have to 
see BABBITI page 4 
The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 


Ron Spitaels, top, and Dennis Krol are shown working on one of their department's trucks at the Vehicle Maintenance Bay. 
Minor injuries, little damage reported from snowball fight 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 

Nearly 500 students took part in an all-campus snowball fight Tunsday, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant direc­tor of Notre Damn Security. 
Hurley said that the annual evnnt was "more subdund" than any like it in previous years. 
Security officers were pa­trolling the ND campus throughout the night. No major injuries or extensive property damage was reported. 
At approximat11ly 11 :50 p.m., a resident of Flanner Ilall re­portnd damagn to his seeond­noor window from the snow­ball fight. Hurley said. No other damage to property was re­portnd. 
According to a source at Uni­versity Health Services. two students were sent to hospital emergency rooms for minor lacerations. and one student suffered an eye injury. Less than ten others were treated for minor cuts and bruises. 
Father Andre Leveille, rector of Cavanaugh Hall, said that most students in his hall did not participate in the snowball fight this year. "We asked our guys to stay in the hall. and most of them stayed in the hall," he said. 
After last year's snowball fight. which caused widespread damage to campus buildings, Father David Tyson, then-vice president of Student Affairs, suspendnd $20,000 in matching funds to cover the damage. After many students protested the decision, the matching funds were eventually rein­stated. 
Gulf Crisis Action Group starts campaign to Congressmen to discourage war in Iraq 

By MARK CAWLEY 
News Writer 
The Gulf Crisis Action Group has started a letter writing campaign to encourage members of the House of Representatives to deter an American first­strike against Iraq. 
The action group began this campaign because, "The costs of war outweigh any gains and the potential for escalation is too great," said group member Tara Verdonk. "We believe a U.S. attack would intensify and entrench hatred for America in the region, making future Middle East disputes more likely and more difficult to resolve," she added. 
Several'alternatives to war have been encouraged by the Gulf Crisis Action Group. 
"United Nations-sponsored, non-violent sanctions, which do not include food and medicine, should be given a chance to take their ell'ect on the Iraqi economy," said Verdonk. "A negotiated settlement should be actively pursued," she said. 
The Group, in a written statement. also encouraged the establishment of a U.N. peace-keeping force to aet as a buffer between Iraq and Saudi Arabia. This force would replace American led troops in the region. The establishment of alternative fuel sources and an end to the American reliance on foreign oil was also recommended by the Gulf Crisis Action Group. 
"We oppose military action in defense of our access to re­sources. the consumption of which we need to scale back in order to save our fragiln environmnnt," stated the Group. 
The letter writing campaign is being financed primarily by members of the Gulf Crisis Action Group. "We have all sort off chippnd in," said Tara Vnrdonk. Tlw Center for Social Coneerns has also donated its photocopiers for usn in the campaign. 
The action group's campaign will begin today from 7 to 10 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns coffee house. It will continue on Thursday and Friday in the library eoncourse from 2 to 5 p.m. Thn group will be soliciting signatures for petitions and will provide fact sheets for those who wish to write their own letters. 


page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 


The five most livable cities in America 
There's been a de---------­bate going on lately as to which city in the 
U.S. is considered the best place to live. Certain magazines have gone so far as to rank various cities in order of 'liveability.' Michael Owen 
Some have gone out 
on a limb to claim News Copy Editor Seattle as the best place to live. In my book, any place that has rain for more than a month of the year must be disqualified (this, of course, does exclude the meteorological nightmare 
known as South Bend, Ind., where rain cov­ers the heinous ethanol stench). Therefore, I offer my personal list of the top five all­round best places to live. Each meet my own following criteria: entertainment, culture, weather, originality and general beauty of the population. So here goes: 
5) CHICAGO, Ill.-This city has many things going for it. Entertainment includes some of the nation's best sports teams. Cul­ture is represented by the variety of art and historical museums. However, Chicago, you lose in weather and general beauty. I don't really enjoy wearing an arctic parka in May because the wind hasn't stopped. The gen­eral beauty index is not up to par with the cities ahead of it, either. 
4) BURLINGTON,Vt.-Strong in every­thing except a little culture, but we can ig­nore that when you see how cool this place is. It is home to the University of Vermont ("Groovy UV"), where the opulent skiers and environmental crunchies mesh to make this one of the most beautiful and intellec­tual cities in the U.S. Eternal love for Jerry Garcia, great bars, Lake Champlain, and a Socialist mayor make this the perfect place to raise some young'uns. It's a veritable Berkeley of the East without the California attitude. 
3) TIE -CLEVELAND, Ohio and TREN­TON, N.J.-(just kidding) 
2) LAS VEGAS, Nev.-"Viva-a-a-Las Ve­gas, pretty momma" as The King once said. It's hot and sunny all year round. Talk about entertainment-where do I start? And the abundance of friendly, hard-work­ing women make this my #2. Anyplace fre­quented by Wayne Newton, Liberace, and The King is the hub of the universe. Except for the fact that it's in the same state used for underground nuclear tests, it's a great place. 
1) NEW YORK, N.Y.-As if you hadn't al­ready guessed. Everything you'd ever want and every type of person can be found here. Eight million people can't be wrong. Before you scream in disagreement, I suggest you check it out for yourself. 
*NOTE-all other cities not on the list are considered to be the same city. They are merely duplicated around the country and given a liberty bell. an arch, etc. so we can tell them apart. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

(219)-239-7 4 71  
Tuesday's  Staff  Ad Design  
CaraEckman  
News Carolyn Amann  Jean-Philippe Thole Maria Blohm  Systems Mark Sloan  
Paul Pearson Mike Owen  Kerry Clair  Mike Murphy  
Production  Graphics  
Accent  Wendy Cunningham  Michael Muldoon  
Paige A. Smoron  Ann Buff  
John Fischer  Circulation  
Melissa Cusack  Viewpoint  Bill O'Rourke  
Mike Krause  Matt Novak  
Sports  Kathy Welsh  
Frank Pastor  
Scoreboard  
Dave McMahon  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1990 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, Dec. 4 
Lines show high temperatures. 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
® © ~ ~ m 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 

Yesterday's High: 44 Yesterday's Low: 27 
30 Nation's High: 88 (EI Cajon, Calif.) Nation's Low: -11 (Bismarck, N.D.) 
Forecast: 

Partly sunny and not as 
cold today. Highs in the 
middle 30s. Partly cloudy 
tonight with lows in 20s. 
Variable cloudiness and 
warmer tomorrow with 
highs in the lower 40s. 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

0 h ~ 


FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 

OF INTEREST 
A Posada, a celebration of Mary and Joseph's journey to Bethlehem, will be sponsored by the Hispanic American Organization. The event will begin at LaFortune's front steps tonight at 7 p.m. and will con-elude with a reception in Cavanaugh Hall. 
The University Marching Band will hold a no-cut Orange Bowl meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Koons Band Building. 
WORLD 
A Jewish museum in or 


Yehuda,Israel seems an unlikely place in which to hear about the warm and human side of Saddam Hussein. Most Israelis know him as the Arab dictator whose threats have forced them to get gas masks. But Vicky, a Jewish immi­grant from Iraq, remembers him as the man who comforted her when 

she came to him for help in getting her husband out of prison. Another woman recalled being protected from anti-Jewish riots by Saddam's family in his home village of Takrit. 
NATIONAL 
A federal judge upheld a ban on guns in Richmond, Virginia's public housing projects, setting a precedent for the rest of the nation, the housing authority director said Tuesday. The ruling Monday by U.S. District Judge Richard Williams marked the first time a court has decided whether public housing residents can be barred from having guns, said Richard Gentry, executive director of the Richmond Redevelopment and Housing Authority. Gentry said guns also are banned in public housing pro­jects in Chicago, but that ban has not been challenged in court. "This is a unique court case," he said. "Now this can be used as a precedent throughout the country." 
INDIANA 
Strong winds and cold weather moved across northern Indiana Tuesday, causing more problems for residents still recovering from last week's floods. The National Weather Service is­sued a winter storm watch for northwestern In­diana tonight and Tuesday because of the poten­tial for heavy lake effect snows. The area extends from Gary to South Bend. An earlier weather ad­visory for snow and sleet in north central Indiana was cancelled by late morning. Dangerous driving conditions were reported in northern Indiana this morning. Roads were slushy from LaGrange to Angola with winds gusting to 55 mph, the weather service said. Up to 1 1/2 inches of rain fell west of a line from Lafayette to Fort Wayne Sunday night, with the greatest amounts falling in portions of Clay, Putnam, Hendricks, Marion and Hamilton counties in west central and central Indiana. 

Right-to-Life of ND/SMC will be showing the movie "Meet the Abortion Providers," produced by Joseph Scheidler at the Pro-Life Action League, tonight at 8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room (2nd Floor) of LaFortune. 
Juniors interested in being a part of the music group for the class mass are invited to attend a practice Thursday night 8:30 p.m. at St. Ed's. If unable to attend, call 239-5117. 
A retired army colonel. arrested in October on charges of plotting against Panamanian President Guillermo Endara's government, broke jail Tuesday and fled in a helicopter, government sources and his lawyer said. Former Col. Eduardo Herrera Hassan escaped from Naos Island in the Pacific Ocean and flew to the Tinajitas military barracks on the outskirts of Panama City, an of­ficial at the attorney general's office said. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he had no de­tails and did not know what Herrera was doing at the barracks. Herrera served in the now disbanded Defense Forces of ousted dictator Manuel Noriega. 
The tobacco industry has given substantial re­search grants to the employers of three members of an EPA panel that met Tuesday in Arlington, Va. to decide whether airborne cigarette smoke causes lung cancer in nonsmokers. The panel members did not mention the grants when they were asked, at the opening of the meet­ing, to voluntarily disclose anything that might be seen as a conflict of interest. The EPA panel is meeting for two days at an Arlington hotel to consider two draft EPA re­ports, one of which concludes that cigarette smoke should be designated a class A carcinogen, a known cause of 
human cancer. 
MARKET UPDATE 


NYSE Index  
178.19  -o­ 1.12  
S&P Composite 326.35  '1} 2.25  

Dow Jones Industrials 2,579.70 {)-14.11 
Precious Metals Gold '1} $2.1 0 to $378.90/oz. Silver 'iJ 1.3¢ to $4.151/oz. 
ALMANAC 
On December 5: 

etn 1776: Phi Beta Kappa, America's first scholastic fraternity, was founded. 
etn 1901: Walt Disney, animator and creator of Mickey Mouse, was born. 
etn 1933: Utah became the 36th state to ratify the repeal of Prohibition, bringing back alcohol after 13 years. 
e In 1955: President Eisenhower, at the official merger ofthe AFL-CIO, bids them to heed mi­nority rights. 
etn 1967: Two -hundred fourty­six people were arrested in protest at a draft induction center in New York. 

Wednesday, December 5, 1990 

Workshop offers tips to relieve test anxiety 
By MOLLY MALLOY components are caused by News Writer emotions. 
Settle said that test anxiety is 
The issue of test anxiety is a learned behavior, something neither new nor uncommon, picked up by observing others, counselor Dave Fitzgerald said outside pressures, or experi­
in a workshop Tuesdax. ences of failure. But, Settle 
"According to a survey, 15-25 said, this disorder can be over­pnrennt of all college students come. have tnst anxiety," he said. 
Various adverse effects of test "It is learned so it can be un­anxiety debilitate performanee, learned," said Settle. explained Fitzgerald and Settle and Fitzgerald ex­psychologist Wendy Settle in plained that effective time their workshop "How to Rnduce management and changed Tost Anxiety." study habits can combat the 
Thn workshop, part of the emotional components. UnivMsity Counseling Center's Establishing planned study Pnrsonal Development Series, times and places increase con­characterized test anxiety and centration and therefore, im­offnred tips for eliminating prove confidence, they said. strnss associatod with testing. They also described muscle­
Settle asked the students in relaxing and breathing exer­attondance to describe their cises to help alleviate cognative symptoms of test anxiety which disorders. The objective of a!Tnct thnm before, during, and these exercises is to release after the test. Settle and tenseness, a physical response 
Fitzgerald then classified these to stress. symptoms as cognitive or be­Questions about test-taking havioral components of anxiety. anxiety can be referred to the Cognitive components are University Counseling Center on disabling effects caused by the third floor of the University worrying, whereas behavioral Health Services building. 
111ake a 
state111ent 

:~np:1.,)1ii··c e i n t h e p~ r s i a n g u I f t-shirts 
2-color design on a high-quality 
1 00% cotton t-shirt. 
sizes: medium, large, x-large 
send your name, quantity 
and size 
111~1lSilll~ 
plus your check or money order 

fitJJ..Jl 
for $12.95 per shirt to: 
dove promotions p.o. box 1904 south bend, in 46634 
allow 2 to 4 w-k• for delivery C 1990 dove productions 





SPECIAL 
$2e00 OFF any 
outer 
coat 
Cleaned and Pressed 

The Observer 
By DAVID KINNEY News Writer 
The Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) discussed the advantages and disadvantages of the new housekeeping concept that took effect at the beginning of the year. 
Colonel David Woods, director of Support Services, explained that the housekeeping program has undergone and requested recommendations from II PC members. 
According to Woods, the sys­tem used at the beginning of the 1990-91 year has been sig­nificantly changed. Housekeepers do more exten­sive work in the dorms; teams of maids no longer rotate dur­ing the week, but one team is permanently assigned to a spe­cific dorm, continued Woods. 
Moreover, "we have put more people in the halls than before," he said. 
Hall presidents had a variety of complaints, including: 
• St. Edward's Senior Jim McCarthy, who commented that both students and maids miss the contact between students and staff. "They think that the daily interaction was an inte­gral part of their job...(They are) not as attentive to the 
.needs of students, "said McCarthy. Students have found that the old relationships and friendships have been lost, continued McCarthy. 
• 
Junior Laura Mollach of Pasquerilla West recommended that the showers be cleaned after 11 a.m. so as to avoid de­laying students in the early morning. 

• 
Other council members said that showers and bathrooms were not cleaned often enough, that showers were not always in functioning order, and that miscellaneous insects and ro­dents were not handled effec­tively. 


Woods requested students to cooperate with the new system, 
page 3 

and to report complaints to Support Services. 
In other business: 
• Student Senator Lisa Bostwick present11d the Senate resolution listing suggestions for carrying out the recom­mendations of the Student Government report to the Board of Trustees on sexuality. 
The resolution calls for mea­sures to be taken to revise ND policy on sexual assault and acquaintance rape on campus. "Total silence on such inci­dents," read the resolution, "leads to a false sense of secu­rity and the conception of ac­quaintance rape as a lesson or acceptable crime." 
The resolution was passed unanimously by HPC. 
• Morrissey Hall representa­tives announced that the Morrissey Film Festival will take place March 1, 1991, in Cushing Auditorium. Proceeds will benefit "a charitable cause." 
' 

Directions for Success 
Ph.D. in Management 
Let the Krannert Graduate School of Management chart your course to success. Purdue University's Krannert School 'can offer you: 
• 
Faculty Expertise--professors with international reputations for their research, publications, and achievements. 

• 
Instruction --a rigorous, advanced curriculum. 

• 
Centers for New Knowledge--producing leading-edge research in the areas of credit, tax policy, and manufacturing management. 

• 
Computer Facilities--eight computer laboratories that keep pace with rapid technological change. 

• 
Placement Record--recent graduates placed at the University of Chicago, University of Illinois, University of Texas at Austin, and University of North Carolina. 


You'll select among these areas of study and research: accounting, finance, management information systems, management science, marketing, operations management, strategic management, economics, organizational behavior and human resource management. Graduate Teaching and Research Assistantships provide 12-month stipends and remission of most tuition expenses. 
For information and application, contact: Doctoral Program Admissions Krannert Graduate School of Management Purdue University West Lafayette, IN 47907 Phone: (317) 494-4375 
Krannert Graduate School of ManagementPurdue University 
An equal access, equal opportunity university 



page 4 
United Way receives $3000 from fundraising efforts ... 
By DAVID KINNEY student and faculty donations, 
News Writer said Costello. Students were given a small incentive to give: a VCR was awarded to the
During the month of October, dorm with the largest percent­Notre Dame participated in a age donating. 
community-wide United Way "All of the money stays in the 
fund drive to support St. 
community," continued Costello. 
Joseph's County. 
The money that United WayThe drive involved a series of collects in the area will helpactivities sponsored by several thousands of people in need in groups on campus, according to 
St. Joseph's County during
Kristin Costello, special projects 1991, according to Kris Kurtz
executive coordinator. The 
Ohlson, manager of thecollective work of many NO community marketing divisionstudents helped to provide for of United Way of St. Joseph's
the needs of over 100,000 
County.
community residents. 
United Way is essentially "aWhile the original goal for networking organization thatNotre Dame was set at $5000, it collects money and feeds it out 

was later reduced to a more to other organizations;" said
reasonable $3000. Costello said Costello. These funds support a
that NO students and faculty 
· variety of service organizations, reached the goal, through: 
including the Food Bank of
• the HPC Quarter Mile. On 
Michiana, Big Brothers/ BigOctober 5, 1990, the Hall 
Sisters, and the Logan Center. 
Presidents' Council-sponsored NO's $3000 contribution was event raised $205 by appealing 
only a small fraction of the 
to students, faculty, alumni, and 
$3,632,829 raised in St. 
campus officials for money, Joseph's County; United Way
according to HPC Co-Chair 
hopes that the funds will helpMary Dandurand. 
115,000 people.
• the Dessert Reception. The "To each and every personGlee Club and a Jazz group per­who gave to United Way," saidformed at a dining hall dessert 
Katie Humphreys, the 1990
reception that raised $500 for Campaign Chair, "thank you.
United Way. 
Your contribution really will• dorm door-to-door collec­
make a difference to those who 
tion. The majority of money 
really need help in our commu­raised was collected through 
nity." 
The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1990 

APPhoto 
Winter's here 

Louis Taylor takes shelter from a heavy storm in Bay City, Mich., as he clea~s his car prior to driving on snow covered streets. The winter's first storm caused transportation delays m much of the Midwest. 
...but sends $1500 in relief aid to Michiana food bank 
By DAVID KINNEY News Writer 
In order to respond to the needs of the community, United Way of St. Joseph's County re­leased $1500 in emergency re­lief aid to the Food Bank of Michiana. 
Nathan Hatch, vice president of the Graduate School and chairman of the Community Planning Division for United Way of St. Joseph's County, de­livered a check for $1500 to the food bank on Tuesday at 9 a.m. 
"The reason United Way made a special allocation," said Hatch, "is because the food Township violence bank is low at this time of year ...a special appeal was made 
A squatter joins a group Monday after faction violence cla.imed the lives ~f at le<3:st 54 people. when rival 
and United Way answered." 
black groups armed with axes, spears, and guns clashed 1n black townships loot1ng and burn1ng homes. 
"United Way," said Hatch, "is tied into a national network in which they can purchase food very inexpensively." 
According to Kris Kurtz Ohlson, manager of the Com­munity Marketing Division of the United Way of St. Joseph's County, the funds will allow the Food Bank of Michiana to buy 18,000 pounds of food at 6 cents per pound. The retail value averages $1.40 per pound, so the money will bring the equivalent of $25,000 worth to the community. 
Hatch, who handles the longe-range planning of the distribution of funds to the community, said that students should become involved in ser­vice organizations supported by United Way. 

Babbit 
continued from page 1 
be some kind of compromise," Babbit said. 
If New York Governor Mario Cuomo decides to run in the 1992 presidential election, Babbit said he would definitely support Cuomo. 
After his defeat in the 1988 election, Babbit said, his son "had internalized this defeat as somehow his fault." Babbit then walked up with his son to the Lincoln Memorial. He looked at the statue and said, "You see that is what it is all about." 
"It is not about holding office, it is not about winning. That man lost virtually every election he ever contested," Babbit said. It is really about getting involved and trying to make a difference, he concluded. 
American Heart Association 

This space provided as a public service. 
TOP TEN QUESTIONS FROM FR. MIKE SHOW: 
10. Was it really Eddie Murphy on the Milli Vanilli album? 
9. Me? (Is that active voice?) 

8. Do I really have family in the audience? 
7. Will Quinn ever get rhythm? 
6. Mary, is Big Boy looking good to you after 3 months at ND~ 
5. What happened to the stuffed shells? 
4. Why don't you lose this dude and come with us? 
3. Will Kate do her first year over again? Is he too old for Kate, too? 
2. How much will you pay me if I dance with the most flexible Dean in America? 
1. What else will Jill do for $25? 
A.tJitl!IJ,: Srel!IJ,fi(})lf'S 
(Gl!IJ,d }]l!IJ,flcenstled Ul!IJ,dcelf'glf'rmds!) 
0 Is volunteer work a plus or a minus on my resume? 
0 What about loans? 

0 What do I tell my parents? 
0 Do I have the necessary motivation? 
General Information Session Post Graduate Volunteer Opportunities Center for Social Concerns Wednesday, Dec. 5, 4:30-5:00 p.m. 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES THE SACHS GROUP 
We are a rapidly growing health care software and consulting firm located in Evanston, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago. We currently have positions available for winter and spring graduates who want to gain experience in information systems, marketing, consulting, and the health care industry. Some exposure to computers and software is preferred, particularly dBase, Excel and/or Lotus. 
If you would like to learn more about us, Join us in the Alumni Room at the Morris Inn on Wednesday, December 5th at 7:00p.m., for an informal presentation on the unique career opportunities available with the Sachs Group. 


Wednesday, December 5, 1990 
Bush says "No" to giving sanctions a year to work 
MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay (APJ -!'resident Bush on Tuesday firmly rejected recommenda­tions from former Pentagon chiefs to give sanctions against Iraq at least a year to work be­fore resorting to military force. 
Bush, on the second day of a salute-to-democracy tour across South America, ex­pressed doubt that ·sanctions 
alone  would  bring  (Iraq's  
Saddam  Hussein)  to  his  
senses."  

Saying that many countries' economies "are being devas­tated" by oil prices that have soared during the gulf crisis, Bush vowed, "This is not going to go on forever." 
So far, he said, the Iraqi leader "has not gotten the mes­sage" that he must get out of Kuwait. 
The United Nations resolution authorizing force against Iraq unless it withdraws from Kuwait by Jan. 15 was "loud and clear," Bush said. "But I don't think Saddam Hussein yet understands that." 
"The best hope for peace is for him to understand that all means -all means -neces­sary to fulfill these resolutions 
PICTURES 
WITH 
SANTA! 
• FRIDAYI DECEMBER 7TH 

1:00 pm -3:00 pm Lafortune Lobby 
FREE! 
All Faculty, StaH 
+ Students Welcome! 
Smile+ Say (~eny Christmas " 

m:;:=====:::;::::::;:===::;::::;:;::;::::;;::::~==:;;.i!j : Ll MITE D SPACE ... CALl TODAY!! 
~ Are Visions of SUGAR ~ PLUMS 
~ 
~ Dancing in your head? t STOP by and grab a t cookie at our 
t J-fOLI'D.9LYSrJ'Ll'lJY 
~ 
E "* 'B'l(l£Jl1( ~ 
e TONITE SPM-1 OPM ~ LAFORTUNE LOBBY ~ FREE! 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
will be used against him," Bush said at a news conference with Uruguayan President Luis Alberto Lacalle. 
The Persian Gulf crisis was at the top of his agenda as Bush arrived here from Brazil for talks with Lacalle and an ad­dress to Congress. Several hun­dred leftist demonstrators protested outside as Bush spoke to the lawmakers. 
As Bush spoke, former Defense Secretary Robert McNamara added his voice to the list of witnesses before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee urging caution in the stand against Iraq. 
"Who can doubt that a year of blockade will be cheaper than a week of war?" said McNamara, who led the Pentagon during the U.S. buildup in Vietnam. 
Bush should not act "without the approval of the American people expressed by the ap­proval of the Congress," said the former Johnson adminis­tration official. 
Sen. Larry Pressler, R-S.D., said, "If we start having body bags come back, we will have a very serious revolt in terms of public opinion." 
~ • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~ 


~ 
~ 

Some employers promise
~ 
= 
= 
~
! 
~ 
t; 
~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 

The Observer page 5 
~~.
f ·fi 

AP Phoro About 85 soldiers from the U. S. Army's First Armored Division, the "Big Red 1,• arrive in Saudi Arabia Monday after a flight from southern Germany. They are part of the reenforcements ordered by Pres. Bush. 
Iraq offers to free Soviet hostages 
(AP)-Saddam Hussein on Tuesday backed away from his confrontation with the Kremlin, promising to release the 3,300 Soviets he was holding. Moscow had warned it would use mili­tary force against Iraq if Soviets there were harmed. 
Meanwhile, according to a British news report late Tuesday, Iraq may be ready to withdraw from most of Kuwait as long as it is allowed to keep the disputed Rumailah oil field that crosses two miles into Kuwaiti territory. 
In New York, a late burst of buying sparked by the Sky tele­vision report that the Iraqi president was considering withdrawing his occupying forces from Kuwait lifted the stock market from a 25-point decline a half-hour -before clos­ing to a 14.11-point Dow Jones 
:··········t~•;t••\t~~··tt••·········
SPRINl:i t:SHI:.AI\. '91 : 
iACAPULCO j 
• -8. ,." : FROM $ 4 5 9 • 0 0 :o,.,'>g ~ ~, 
: MARCH 11-17, 1991 ,.9"1r,~,~•* Air & Hotel PLUS, PLUS...... : from CHICAGO on AMERICAN AIRLINES 
•

: FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL:
•

:BOB AT 1-800-875-4525 
you the world 
We offer you achance 
to make the world better 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the Umvcrs iry of N(){re Dame for college graduates intercsrcd in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cress Box 541 NOlJ'e Daine, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
gain, closing at 2,579.70. 
The rumors fanned specula­tion the gulf crisis could be re­solved without bloodshed. 
The Sky TV news report said Saddam has been detailing his negotiating position on the gulf dispute in private meetings with mediators that include Soviet envoy Yevgeny Primakov. 
In exchange for a guarantee against any Western attack on Iraq, the report said he would pull out of all of Kuwait except for the oil field in southern Iraq. 
Saddam also would give back the strategically important is­lands of Bubiyan and Warba, as long as Kuwait would discuss leasing them, and he would accept the return of the Kuwaiti royal family, which fled when Iraq invaded Aug. 2, according to the report. 
a• 
:
•* 
* 

Before the Persian Gulf crisis began, Moscow was Iraq's chief weapons supplier and main ally. The Kremlin has not sent troops to join the U.S.-led multinational force stationed in Saudi Arabia. 
Speaking in Montevideo, Uruguay, earlier Tuesday on his second stop on a South American tour, President Bush said Saddam "has not gotten the message" that he must get out of Kuwait. 
Britain's prime minister, John Major, also talked tough on the gulf, ruling out negotiations with Iraq or any "partial solu­tions or linkages to other is­sues." 
Iraq had warned foreign companies and employees it would demand compensation for any contract breached after its invasion. 
In Moscow, presidential spokesman Vitaly lgnatenko said 3,232 Soviets remained in Iraq. Thousands. more left In the months after the invasion. 
Moscow adopted a harder line against Iraq last week when It accused Saddam of breaking a promise to allow Soviets to leave. 
Iraq is holding hundreds of Westerners, many at strategic sites, to deter attack by the 340,000-strong U.S.-led multi­national force deployed in the gulf. Soviets are not believed among those used as "human shields." 
Saddam has said he would free all hostages between Christmas and March 25 pro­vided Washington and its allies do not take military action. That period is considered the optimum time for an offensive to drive the Iraqis from Kuwait. 
The Iraqi decision Tuesday was seen as an attempt by Saddam to forestall any Soviet military intervention in the gulf that might cement the U.S.-Ied coalition already poised in the region against him. 
But releasing the Soviets is not likely to assuage Moscow's mounting impatience with Saddam over his refusal to leave Kuwait, nor imperil its growing alliance with the West. 
In Washington, congressional hearings continued on the Bush administration's gulf policy. 
Senate Democrats have re­peatedly urged Bush to stick with the economic embargo against Iraq, rather than rush into a war. White House offi­cials, however, have said the sanctions aren't working. 
''I've not been one whose been convinced that sanctions alone will bring him to his senses," Bush said Tuesday. 
Of Saddam, the president said: "I am convinced that up until now, at least, he has not gotten the message" that he must withdraw from Kuwait. 

The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1990 
Two defendants in Bensonhurst case cleared of murder charges 

NEW YORK (AP) -1\vo white men were acquitted of murder Tuesday in the racially­motivated slaying of a black teenager in a mob attack in the city's Bensonhurst section last year. 
The jury took just four hours to return the verdicts for James Patino and Joseph Serrano fol­lowing a two-week trial. The two smiled broadly as the ver­dicts were read, hugged their lawyer and then embraced in state Supreme Court in Brooklyn. 
Also Tuesday, another jury heard closing arguments in the retrial of Bensonhurst defen­dant John Vento. He is being retried for murder, manslaugh­ter and riot after his first trial ended with a hung jury. 
The verdict makes Patino the first defendant in the case to be cleared of all charges. 
"I feel great, and my lawyer's 

Officials unsure who controlled Northwest plane at crash 
ROMULUS, Mich. (AP) -The tors as human error, weather captain of a DC-9 that collided and equipment as possible in fog with another jetliner on causes of the accident. an airport runway, killing eight A fireball fed by fuel burned people, returned to the cockpit away the top of the Pittsburgh-only last week from a five-year bound DC-9 after the right medical leave, officials said wingtip of the Northwest 727 Tuesday. tore open the DC-9's fuselage 
Investigators were trying to and dislodged an engine. determine whether the Noxious fumes killed seven Northwest Airlines captain, men and a woman among the William Lovelace, or his first 43 people aboard the DC-9, said officer, James Chifferns, was at Wayne County Chief Medical the controls Monday when it Examiner Bader Cassin. Seven ran into a Boeing 727 racing for people remained hospitalized, takeoff at Detroit Metropolitan two of them in critical Airport. condition. 
Chifferns, who spent 20 years in the Air Force, was hired by Northwest in March, his first job in commercial aviation. 
National Transportation Safety Board investigators said they were looking at such fac-
I.C. Payne, a passenger on the DC-9, said he couldn't see much out his window and just re­members a piece of shrapnel striking him on the head. 
"It nearly knocked me out of my seat," said Payne, a quality inspector for General Electric based in Fort Wayne, Ind. "The first thing I did was reach up to see if all my head was still on. Then I heard someone in the front of the plane yell out that the engine just blew." 
The woman killed was Heidi Joost, 43, of Dearborn, a flight 
YE-YE-l'EAJI! 
HAPPY a£~1£0 
A 
18 !!!BIRTHDAY 
MATT 

BRECHWALD!!!!!! 
FROM YOUR 
4-WDUDES 

eALL1'Jt9 ALL &L11&S! I 
Christmas is coming ar 1d we need help decorating! So come to the 
LAFORTUNE DECORATING PARTY Thursday, December 6th 
6:00 -8:00pm in the Lafortune lobby 
HOUDAY TREATS GALORE! BCIISt!Jhll.f M'JISJe B'fl <J~C ~llh!bBCll e~t!JJR ! ! 
FREE! FREE! FREE! 
9&7 11t ~E Sil'1"/e'n tY; ~E ~~'JZ)/11JS II 
For more information call 239-7308 
wonderful, said Patino, 25, out­side the courthouse. ''I'm glad everything's over." · 
''I'm sorry for what happened to Yusuf Hawkins, but I had nothing to with it," said Serrano, 21, after the verdict. "I was confident. I was secure in my innocence." 
Both defendants had been ac­cused of murder, manslaughter, riot, discrimination and other charges in the attack that resulted in the death of Hawkins, who was shot in the mostly white Brooklyn neigh­borhood on Aug. 23, 1989. 
Patino was found innocent of all the crimes. Serrano was convicted only of a misde­meanor weapons possession charge that is punishable by up to a year in prison. 
Prosecutor Edward Boyar shrugged and told reporters, "I never quibble with a jury's ver­dict." 
Hawkins' killing was the most serious racial incident in the city since the 1986 killing of a 23-year-old black man in Howard Beach. In that con­frontation, the victim was struck and killed by a car after a mob of whites chased him onto a highway. 
Hawkins, 16, was slain when he and three friends -all black teenagers went to Bensonhurst to look at a used car. The unarmed youths at­tracted the attention of a mob of as many as 30 bat-wielding whites looking for a fight. 

In Vento's case, Assistant District Attorney Paul Burns said Vento was "an active re­cruiter" and "one of the leaders · of the mob." 
"Joseph Fama, acting by himself, could never have committed this crime," Burns said, referring to the convicted murderer of Hawkins. 

attendant who worked for ical leave for kidney stones, Northwest since 1968. The Gibbons said. Airline officials names of the others were refused to provide further de­unavailable from the medical tails on Lovelace's leave. examiner because their bodies Lovelace, 52, of Phoenix, had were so badly charred. Cassin two weeks of ground school and said dental records were being 13 hours of simulator flying sought to make positive identi-after he was medically cleared fication, which Northwest Oct. 10 to return to work. Five spokesman Kevin Whalen said of Lovelace's 12 flights between could come Wednesday. Nov. 25 and Nov. 30 had been 
Another Northwest into or out of Detroit. spokesman, Bob Gibbons, said Gibbons, the Northwest the flight was Lovelace's first spokesman, said if visibility was without another pilot observing less than a quarter-mile, FAA since he returned to flying Nov. rules require the tower to 
25. He spent five years on med-ground all departing flights. 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS  
THE BEA TLES IN YJEILIL({]) W § 11JlffiIMIAffi.llNJE  
CINEMA AT THE SNITE TONIGHT 9:00 PM  

rrhursday 'December 6, 1990 Stepan Center 8 P!Jvf 
Tuf(f,ts can 6e purcliaseafor $2 at tfie La:Fortune Stutfent Center Information 'DesK_ rrliis event lias 6een 6rougfit to you 6y: %e (jeMer Stuaies 'Department %e .9lrts & Letters Core 'Department 

'J{p audio, vitUo or camua equipment aUowufpfease 

P H 0 T 0 G R A P H S 
Rolling Stone: The Photographs/On Exhibit at University Campuses 1990-1991 
THEODORE'S 
Monday, Dec. 3 thru Wednesday, Dec.S. Open 10 a.m.-6 p.m. Complimentary Coffee • FREE ADMISSION Commemorative Mugs (while supplies last) 


APPhoto

Points of light 
Members of Joint Headquarters of Canadian Forces in the Middle East hold candles and form the shape of a Christmas tree in Manama, Bahrain, to mark the beginning of the Christmas season. 
English 
continued from page 1 
"The people that were first in 
line had been there since 7:30," 
she said. 
Buttigieg commended the de­
sire of students to take certain 
classes, even if it means pulling 
an all-nighter to register. "I 
think it's very interesting to no­
tice there's a group of students 
so interested in taking our 
courses that they will stay up 
all night for them." 
"A lot of this [pre-registra­
tion] came as a result from this 
student desire to have a struc­
tw:ed curriculum," he added. 
Student desire to take English 
classes goes beyond the English 
major though, and Buttigieg 
acknowledges the difficulties 
for students to complete a 
University requirement, if they 
should choose to take a litera­
ture course to do so. 
The number of English ma­
jors is presently hovering in the 
450-470 range, Buttigieg said. 
The increase in majors by 50­
60 from last year is indicative 
of the "upward climb" the de­
partment has seen in the past 
five years, he said. 
Five years ago the English 
department's majors were still 
in the 300-350 range, accord­
ing to Buttigieg. 
,\,, ,, ,,,, 
~,:.~
Give to the United Way. 
"' 
This increase has posed problems for majors and non­majors alike. While majors fmd the difficulties in getting their first choices, non-majors are faced with the potential unavailability of all classes. 
The department originally planned to offer 29 courses at the 300-level, and 31 at the 400-level for the spring semester. However, noting that there were only 16 spots left in the entire department, Buttigieg said that two addi­tional 300-level classes will be added. 
Accommodating the influx in students can be difficult, he said. While raising the number of student per class is often the choice, it affects the structure of the traditionally-small dis­cussion and writing courses. 
"We would like to have English classes of no more than 35," Buttigieg said, "but we are presently at 45." 
Adding faculty members to the department is the University's long-term goal, ac­cording to Buttigieg, but the additions will take time. At the rate of adding one professor per year, the department hopes to "gradually absorb the majors and non-majors." 
Buttigieg says he sees the root of registration problems to be the rise in majors, but does not see an immediate solution. "If there weren't so many majors, we would not need to offer so many 400-level courses," he said. "And if .there weren't so many 400-level courses, we could better appease the non­majors." 
?'ked St~HU ~ ~tne~? 1fl~th'?~ ~~. 1/~ Sfulu 
"~· etNit4d lh ~E~ 
tJjpee 4t 239-5449 
Wednesday, December 5, 1990 

Beirut, divided by civil war, starts reunification process 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -A bulldozer roared into the ru­ined, mine-strewn former ur­ban battleground in the heart of Beirut on Tuesday to remove the fortifications and rubble of 15 1/2 years of civil war. 
Stray dogs emerged from shell-shattered buildings, bark­ing furiously as the huge yellow machine began demolishing an earth embankment that split the Christian and Moslem sec­tors of the capital. 
Martyr's Square and sur­rounding streets, the former business center of Beirut, were part of the no man's land that became overgrown with bushes and small trees sprouting from cracks in pavement. 
Two small anti-personnel mines exploded under the bull­dozer's chains as it went to work. The bulldozer was not affected by the small blasts, but a Lebanese army captain ordered work stopped until troops cleared the area. 
"Luckily there were no anti­tank mines planted in this part of the Green Line," said an army captain, referring to the demarcation line that once di­vided the city. "Such mines would have wrecked the bull­dozer." 
The army deployed in down­town Beirut on Monday in the first phase of a government plan to reunify the capital and end the civil warfare that has killed more than 150,000 peo­ple. 
The area around Martyr's Square just north of the port of Beirut was the scene of some of the war's most savage battles as Christian and Moslem mili­tias clashed repeatedly for con­trol. 
The crumbling facades of the old multistory buildings fronting on the square are pep­pered with bullet and shell­holes, their interiors gutted by fire and shells. 
A rusty popcorn machine, scarred with bullet and shrap­nel holes, stood on the sidewalk outside the Roxy movie theater beneath a sign proclaiming "non-stop showings." 
Another small sign on the first floor of the Roxy building, also full of bullet holes, said "Music lessons for 30 pounds a month." 
"I wonder if they will teach music here again. Anyway, it won't be for 30 pounds a month," said the army captain, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The civil war shattered Lebanon's booming economy. The Lebanese pound, once the most stable currency in the Middle East, fell from its pre­war value of 2.5 to the U.S. dollar to 1,250 to the dollar in August. 
The currency began regaining strength after the rival sides accepted an Arab League-bro­kered peace plan requiring them to withdraw from Beirut as the first step in a pacification program. The militia with­drawal started last month and was considered completed in the greater Beirut area Monday. 
On Tuesday, the Lebanese pound traded at 690 to the dol­lar. 


Information Meeting TONIGHT 7:00p.m. Parlor, Haggar College Center SMC Piz:z:a•••Photo Albums •••Scrapbooks 
Notre Dame Communication 
and Theatre 
presents 
Accidental Death of an Anarchist 
An outrageous satirical comedy 
by Dario Fo 
Adapted by Richard Nelson 
Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
Washington Hall 
Wednesday, December 5-8:10p.m. Thursday, December 6-8:10p.m. Friday, December 7-8:10p.m. Saturday, December 8-8:10p.m. Sunday, December 9-3:10p.m. 
Tickets: $7.00 Students/Senior Citizens: $5.00 (Wed., Thu. and Sun.) 
Tickets available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Ticket Office 
MasterCardNisa orders call 239-8128 
Groups call 239-5956 

Wednesday, December 5, 1990 
The Observer page 9 
Viewpoint 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dati Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor •••••••••••••••••••••Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

DRIVING MISS MAG;iJ; 

Volunteers misjudge service motivations 
By Gene McClory as completely altruistic, drawn grading system can be an mixed motivation, one way to our efforts to serve humanity. only by the compassion that fills obstacle to education, the accept oneself is to examine we will, in fact, be better at
and Kathy Royer 
his heart, gets the A. setting of standards for service others and find them even less service.Center For Social This setting of standards can and social action can make it motivated. This examination When we face our im­Concerns result in some complex analysis more difficult to make a con­results in scrutiny that inhibits perfections and realize that 
and sophisticated tribution and grow in the pro­collaboration and the sharing of mixed motivation is part of the 
We are a community of high representation of motivation cess. If one must deny motiva­insights and pain. When I am human condition, we will be achievers. Most individuals that leads to faulty conclusions tion that is not purely unselfish, looking for the chinks in some­able to acknowledge the variety havn como to Notre Dame and a possibly destructive ap­it can lead to a lack of self one's armor, I could be sus­of reasons that have led us 
because they have learned proach to others. Since we are awareness that stunts growth pected of carrying a concealed through the C.S.C. doors. That what it takes to be a "winner." a competitive culture. we have and requires a more elaborate weapon. When we judge an­acknowledgement will allow Approximatnly two thousand of learned to judge ourselves by set of personal defenses. These other, it is difficult to be sup­those with whom we work and thnse achievement-oriented measuring our work against the defenses, while important, portive and affirming to that whom we serve to know us hot­students spend time while they work of others. In the area of make it more difficult for the person. What happens is that ter. Self awarennss and open­are at Notre Dame trying to service, this can result in the person involved in· service to be age old struggle between the ness to others are two very im­make the world a better place, careful examination of other vulnerable to those she meets individual and the community, portant ingredients in being either by serving disadvantaged people's motivations to deter­along the way. My experience and individualism wins out. compassionate, mature citizens. people in the surrounding mine whether their stated moti­has taught me that when I am A willingness to see and admit community or working for vations are their "true" motiva­open to those whom I am serv­While there are problems our own weaknesses may be positive social change. tions. This scrutiny can create ing, both they and I are touched with our need to achieve when the way to be the best that we 
Our commitment to ex­distance and suspicion in our by the act in a significant way. we serve our community, it can be as we strive to make a CtJllencr. does not stop in the relationships. would be unrealistic at best to difference in the world. classroom. We carry it with us Another problem is the assume that we can leave our Gene McClory is tlze associate 
into the service and social ac­If we agree that motivation is temptation that accompanies desire for excellence at the director of the Center for Social tion projects in which we par­a standard by which to judge the search for excellence in ser­door of the Center for Social Concerns. Kathy Royer is ticipate. This leads us to try to excellence in service and we vice to judge others in order to Concerns. I believe that if we coordinator for service/social 
snt standards for service and know that others are watching establish superiority. When one are aware of the pitfalls of set­action groups for the Center for 
social action work. We soon how we perform-we are all is even vaguely aware of one's ting standard of excellence on Social Concerns. find that competition has crept very accomplished at judging into nven the most altruistic of and meeting standards-we can LETTERS our pursuits. assume that no one will admit 
One criterion that we have to motivation that results in less 
SMC juniors receive scholarships 
used to judgtJ who is the "best" than excellent marks. So we at service is to examine begin to doubt what people say motivation. If you go to Logan about their motives, and we Dear Editor: now fourth-ranked Graduate exposure to graduate school Center on Saturdays because it also try to present ourselves in Thursday, Dec. 6 could be a School of Business upon grad­provided us with an opportunity 
not only to learn from the

will be a plus on your medical a way that foregrounds our very important date for Saint uation. school application forms, you "best" motivation. Mary's juniors. This is the night As former Chicago Business experience of the full-time stu­are not as "good" a volunteer All of this leads to the that the University of Chicago Fellows, we believe this is an dents, but also to bettP.r focus 
as thn person who does it be­possibility that we will deny our will make their presentation on opportunity of a lifetime. Last our own career opportunitiP.s cause of an unselfish love of the mixed motivations. When we go the Chicago Business Fellows summer, we attended classes and aspirations. world. out to the Center for the Program. with other MBA students, par­We encourage any Saint ticipated in weekly Mary's junior who is interested
Or. if you decide to tutor in a Homeless or write a letter to a The Chicago Business Fellows neighborhood center because prisoner for Amnesty, we make Program was developed in 1985 management seminars, and in this program to attend an you know that a girl that you sure that no one knows that to entice non-business majors visited several corporations in informational meeting in would like to meet is tutoring there is a little selfishness to pursue a Masters in Business the Chicago area such as First Haggar at 7 p.m. on Dec. 6. For there, you get a B or a C in mixed in with the altruism that at the University of Chicago. Chicago, Deloitte & Touche, more information, please 
service. Your fellow tutor, who has compelled us to this act. Twenty-five of the top liberal Goldman Sachs and McKinsey contact Professor Patti Sayre of goes because she knows that Sometimes we may even fail to arts colleges are invited to & Co. We were also treated to a Saint Mary's College. these children have not had the acknowledge our mixed motiva­chose one or two individuals to Chicago White Sox game, a 
advantages that she has and tion to ourselves. participate in a summer quar­night at Second City and weekly Anne Brady Amy Blair Ross
she wants to give them a better This setting of standards and ter of graduate study. This fel­Brats and Brew. chance, gets an A-(It's clear the resulting masking of lowship not only includes a full We cannot tell you what a University ofChicago Business Fellows 1990
that there is a little guilt here). motivation seems to be a tuition scholarship, but also a rewarding experience this The guy who presents himself problem. Just as the academic guaranteed acceptance into the summer was for us. This early Nov. 26, 1990 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
BUT, HtY, THATS AU IN THe
7He TAX PLWGe cAMe UP IN
FIRST, lET Mt 5AY I 
PAST, G¥<4Y~ PROM NOW ON,
lHt: HtAT OF 7118 cAMFJ416N.
{)/fJN'T 5TARTCXJT 70 
7HeREUBe
TH8 ONf...Y PeRSON YOU'U
I N££{)£3/?A CONVIC770N, TH&P& 
51R,AR8

UP.:3YN01. I JU5T 
A 5HOI<T
Be H&ARJNG PROM IS
WACJN'T TIMe 70 f)£3Vti1JP ONE3 Of 
YOU WING

t<IANTW 70!* 
l!?ANSITIONA/...
9JIGAVt VOICb 70 (jf()/?613 !3U51-1.' I WIU. 
IT NOW~

£1£CTW 
I 
P&/?1(){), Yt.S.
NeVa<, ev&F. AGAIN
P/?E.SIOENT.' 
UP.SYNOI TO THt -----. 
\,
-' _....

AM!3RICAN P&OPL&! 
-
/(\ 

'The more our society ad­vances, the less I believe in reli­gion and the more I believe in God.' 
John McNamara 

12·5 
Wednesday, December 5, 1990
page 10 The Observer 
Viewpoint 
LETTERS 

Pre-cycle effort requires support 
Dear Editor: allow us to consume just as The question that often arises 
With the rising tide of con­much of these fuels, but with a is, "What can I do?" or even cern for the environment and certain, reduced impact on the worse, "What difference can with oil prices sky-rocketing environment. The Clean Air one person make?" The answer due to our dependence on Law, recently signed by to the second question is the Middle Eastern crude, President Bush, is an example same as always: "Every drop Americans are starting to re­of this loophole. With this law, in the bucket counts." If every consider a policy which was America will be forced to look person kept conservation in abandoned at the turn of the for "cleaner" alternative fuels mind, our country would make eighties ... conservation. for their cars, and industry will drastic improvements as a 
However, "conservation" have to pay a bundle to reduce whole in this practice. The an­needs to be redefined to fit the acid rain-causing and green­swer to the first question is not context of the 90s, and steps house gases in their emissions. the same as always. Here is need to be taken at local This new policy will not, how­what you can do for starters. levels-on our campus, for ex­ever, require reduced use of ample-towards implementing fossil fuels. Starting this week, SEA is ini­a policy of strict conservation. Policies of this sort simply tiating a program called Pre­One such step will be taken this don't work. For example, since cycling, that is. saving before week as Students for the early seventies, efforts by using, or conservation. The Environmental Action (SEA) of coal burning power plants to program will be divided into Notre Dame will launch a pro­cut the amount of acid rain­three stages which will last for gram called "Pre-cycling." causing gases that they emit one week each. These three However without active partici­have succeeded in reducing this stages are Energy Conservation pation by every student, this number by 33 percent. Week, Food Conservation Week program will have little impact. However, the use of coal by and Water Conservation Week. SEA needs campus-wide sup­these same plants has in­The events will include port. creased by 50 percent. Thus, distribution of light switch 
People often associate without substantial cuts in the stickers bearing a message of "conservation" with actual consumption of fuel, conservation, an hour of black­"inconvenience" or "sacrifice." whether "clean" or not, we will out to show how much In the nineties this word must not see improvement on the electricity we actually use on take on a new meaning: "duty." pollution problem of this coun­campus, initiation of a car pool Such a transformation must try. network, a dorm energy saving occur for many reasons. First, Secondly, economics tell us competition and many others. and foremost, it must occur for that it is our duty to conserve. Here is your chance to act. the sake of our environment. Conservation is cheaper. However, SEA hopes not only to Our burning of coal to provide Unfortunately, it is hard to get have campus-wide support electricity, oil and natural gas students to believe this when during the weeks of Pre­to heat our homes. and gaso­they pay a flat rate for all of the cycling, but also to get students line to fuel our automobiles energy they use. However, this to start thinking about contributes largely to environ­fact doesn't negate the conservation on a day-to-day mental problems such as the economic implications of con­basis. Pre-cycling must Greenhouse Effect and Acid servation in life after Notre continue after its initiation. Rain. Dame. It does cost less to car 
And every time we address pool, to turn down your ther­John L. Sabo these problems, we always mostat and to turn off an un­Stanford Hall search for a solution which will needed light. Dec. 3, 1990 
Undeclared majors trapped by DART 
Dear Editor: system, the lack of enough minutes and again that night, I 
I am a sophomore in the sections and the small amount frantically searched and tried College of Arts and Letters. Last of sophomore-level courses for classes. My end result was year, and throughout my offered. nine credit hours, none of association with Notre Dame, I Paying over $10,000 for which will directly lead me to a was told that the second year of tuition and being forced to take decision regarding my major. college is a year to discover classes that will not help me to I do not think that my idea of interests and explore possible decide my major is unfair. After what DART should be is major choices. Ironically, my being around for 150 years, the idealized; I merely think that it present schedule of nine credit University of Notre Dame ought is a fair way to fill classes, hours does not include any to be aware of the situation by leaving the randomly chosen classes in either government or now. I am very disappointed people that must register on history, my two choices. with the complacent attitude of the last day classes that will be Instead, I am in an art history the department heads toward needed by them, although not class and, forced out of my own my need for classes. I am not necessarily their first college, an accounting class, in asking for my first, second or preferences. Unfortunately, addition to my required Core even third choice; I just want a DART does not have enough class. history class and a government classes offered. By the time I 
My first step to tackle this class. registered on Wednesday at problem was direct I am being punished for doing 3:45 p.m., there were a minute consultation with department exactly what the University number of classes left. Many heads. Unfortunately, most of encourages, that is, not departments were closed to me, them were inaccessible. Upon declaring a major until the end including, English, history, reaching one, I was told that it of the sophomore year after government, philosophy, is difficult to get classes without taking the first two years to theology, sociology, American being a declared major. This explore, and finally choose a studies and psychology. utterly contradicts the major within, the College of I am not alone. My University's policy of Arts and Letters. roommates, dormmates and 
postponing declaring until April I am frustrated. For weeks, I classmates are also trapped in of the sophomore year. The did not even count on DARTing this unfair system. The lack of only advice I was given was to into my top choices. Instead I classes, sections and concern wait until January, and then concentrated on classes that should not exist, especially at 
maybe some classes would be would not fill so quickly. In a such a national and highly­available. Such action, or panic, I discovered the day of rated university. rather delayed action, is my DART time that all of these Jennifer L. Swize ridiculous. I should not suffer classes had been closed, too. Farley Hall for the faults of the DART During my allotted fifteen Nov. 29, 1990 
Leaders mistakenly support life march 
Dear Editor: that as a Catholic university, mistake. Student government
We take issue with student the administration must adhere should not provide funds for government's decision to co­to official Catholic teaching on this trip. If there were a pro­sponsor a Right-to-Life club trip the impermissibility of abor­choice club on campus-andto Washington, D.C.. tion. But the University is made the chances of its official 
Student government funds up of students of whom not all recognition are woefully should be used to promote are Catholic, and certainly all slim-would student events that enhance the of whom do not believe that government help it fund a intellectual and/or social life of abortion rights should be re­similar trip, or do student funds Notre Dame students. When scinded. It is to these students only go to causes that members student government co-spon­that student government is di­of student governmentsored debates on abortion, rectly answerable. personally agree with? where informed speakers intel­ligently presented different The Right-to-Life club is in no Traci Taghonsides of a multi-faceted prob­way out of line in organizing Laura Rygielski lem, we did not protest. their trip; it is student Walsh Hall 
Furthermore, we understand government who has made the Dec. 3, 1990 

Church fails to implement real solutions to abortion problem 
Dear Editor: 
This past break, three other students and I shared Thanksgiving with the residents of St. Martin de Porres House of Hope. This experience opened my eyes to many incon­sistencies of the Catholic Church-one, in particular, is their stance on abortion. 
Unlike many aspects of the Catholic Church, the House of Hope deals more with realities of society, rather than abstract ideologies. The hierarchies in the Catholic Church could cer­tainly learn a lot from Sister Connie Driscoll and Sister Therese O'Sullivan, the founders of the House of Hope. 
The House of Hope is a non­profit Christian shelter for homeless women and children and pregnant teens in the Woodlawn community in south­east Chicago. Since 1983, Sister Connie and Sister Therese have been running the shelter. Their main objective is to address the needs of homeless women and children in the community. Unlike most shelters I have visited, the House of Hope is not a temporary haven for the poor, but a means for victims of society to acquire a renewed sense of importance through personal responsibility; thus, the system at the House of Hope is geared in such a way that it guides the residents towards 
Sports and music unfortunately dominate NO student lifestyles 
independence and long-term success. 
Unlike the power-holding bu­reaucrats in Rome who set the guidelines by which Catholics are to live, Sister Connie and Sister Therese are dealing with humans on a day-to-day basis. While the Church is ceaselessly pouring money into advertising its stance against abortion, the House -of Hope is providing ac­tual alternatives to abortion. The Catholic Church fails to al­lot .an equivalent amount of funding to actually help those mothers who chose not to abort as they do to preach on the immorality of abortion. One could conclude from the Church's flow of funds that they are more concerned with the appearance of being pro-life, than the actual consequences of that stance. 
Instead, the Church should work to diminish the demand for abortion by providing more options like the House of Hope. Sister Connie and Sister Therese are following up on the Church's firm position against abortion. Perhaps the Church should consider sinking more money into similar programs like the House of Hope instead of into ways to indoctrinate society with their beliefs. 
Anne Hart Augusta Hall Nov. 25. 1990 

Dear Editor: 
As a WVFI deejay and a var­sity athlete, I am disappointed and disgusted at what I've read in the pages of The Observer. I am disappointed in Ken Tysiac's unjournalistic and un­warranted attack on WVFI and its deejays (The Observer, Nov. 20). I am disgusted about a letter in response (The Observer, Nov. 27) from a quartet of my colleagues and its tongue-in-cheek commentary about Notre Dame and its sports teams. And I am downright sickened by the reactionary rhetoric Jeff Jotz spews in his letter (The Observer, Nov. 27). 
Jeff Jotz's letter evokes the strongest response from me be­cause it illustrates the lack of rational thought put into this whole affair. His big words make little sense except to say, "I don't know anything!" The same goes for the rest of the parties. 
Good journalists do research before they decide to point out the fault in an operation. If Tysiac had bothered to check out WVFI, the first thing he would find is an out-dated transmitter which cannot send a signal which covers the entire campus. Secondly, he would find out that the WVFI received over 160 applications for six deejay positions (hardly a lack of interest) at the start of the school year. Also, Tysiac would find several dedicated individu­als who wish to enter the music industry and need the experi­ence WVFI offers, much like The Observer offers journalistic experience for future writers. 
To my colleagues about their letters, I'm appalled. As a varsity lacrosse player, I sacrifice between 15 and 30 hours a week for practice, conditioning, meetings and games without any real ac­knowledgement from the cam­pus. The authors criticize the narrow-mindedness of Ken Tysiac, yet close their eyes to the sacrifices made by the vast number of varsity athletes outside football and basketball who play for the love of the sport and not the recognition. 
I hope The Observer will raise its journalistic standards and not print such grossly self­serving articles as Ken Tysiac's. As for the rest of us, I hope we realize there is more to life than sports and music (like getting along and acting rationally). 
Patrick Finn 
Planner Hall 
Nov.28, 1990 


Accent 
Wednesday, December 5, 1990 Page 11 
NO student reports on formalities of term at Oxford 
BY TERRY COYNE are admittnd into Oxford they oddly enough, it also made me the Young Commonwealth Ball. Wearing formal clothes at thn are actually only admitted into aware of the importance of the The price of 26 pounds (50 dol­Union is a way of perpntuating their own college. This cere­tuxedo. Since that first week I lars) included dinner, two the idea that the Union is the mony marks the official en­have worn my tuxedo three bands, a magician, and a raffie. playground for future Prime
Dear Notre Damn. 
trance of the colleges' students more times. Four times in five I paid far too much, but I Ministers. All of the competitors Evnrything is going well here into the University and is also weeks is quite frequent and has wanted to go to see what it take themselves very seriously,at Oxford. The intnnse and ex­the source for a funny personal made me realize how integral would be like. Interestingly and the formal attire is a way of citing pacn of the early days has experience. the tuxedo, or, as they call it, enough, both students and reiterating that seriousness.
thankfully slownd down quitn a As a one-year visiting student, the dinner jacket, is to the so­teachers attend these balls, and The social scene is not madebit. With a little bit more time 
I was not officially invited to cial scene. Since then I have mix very well. up only of formal occassions, on my hands I will write about participate in the ceremony, but worn my tuxedo for "high There are balls almost every although it does for some of the a few topies more deeply. 
I was interested and went any­table", a ball, and a debate. weekend, and in the final term wealthier students. During theTlw colleges and the Univer­way. All of the students, includ­"High Table" is both a place there is one which costs more week, the average student willsity have an unusual relation­ing myself, were dressed in our and an occurrence. In every than 300 dollars and includes go to his or her college bar andship. They are set up in a feder­tuxedos or cocktail dresses, and college dining room, every everything under the sun. Last hang out for a couple of hoursalist systnm where each of the our academic gowns and caps. night, the dons, wearing their year this ball had more than 50 talking, playing pool, or 3S collnges admits its won stu­The ceremony is held in the formal academic gowns, eat at bands who played for 36 hours throwing darts. 
dents. handles its own finances 
Sheldonian Theatre, a building what is called "high table" in two different enormous tents. On the weekend, the students 
and fund raising, provides 
designed by the famous archi­where they are treated to a It also included as much food, can do an assortment of activi­housing, food. and tutorials. 
tect Christopher Wren, and in-four-course meal. Students can drink, and go-cart riding as you ties. Every fortnight the colleges This system has done quite 
have a informal dance for
well, in fact some of the older "!;.\P" ; ··~ college residents and signed upcolleges. such as St. John's, guests only. The Union also has
havP a large enrollment and ~~ t a party also every 14 days. more money than most collegns 
Many colleges will have plays,twice tlwir size in the United 
band competitions, or some 
States. However. there are type of organized activity which some eolleges that are not as is open to all students. 
well off. whieh is why they ac­Bars close at 11:00 p.m., but 
cept students such as myself, nightclubs begin to fill up at 
because we, unlike most of our around 11:30 p.m., with danc­
British counterparts. pay 
ing going until 2:00 a.m. The 
money.. 
difference between a bar and a Thn lneturi~ system is differ­nightclub is a nightclub paysent than in the U.S. Here there more for its license, thus allow­arn lneture lists rnleased the ing it to stay open later thanweek before eaeh term ("first most places.
wrwk"J detailing hundreds of One oddity of Oxford is that diffprent topies that will be at 10:00 p.m., portable kebab eovnrml. 
or gyro trucks set up at almost Lectures oeeur between 9-12 
every corner of the city. The 
a.m. ewry day and are open to smell from this meat product is most students. So if I wanted to strong enough to peel the paintattend a leeture on legal phi­off walls, but with the students,
losophy by Honald Dworkin, I dudes a brief blessing in Latin be invited to eat with the dons, could endure. Every year the my roommates included, theywould simply go to the room in and a short speech informing but are so infrequently, making BBC carries it on the news. 
are tremendously popular. InAnother place where formal
first wnek. listen to the don and us of the mantle of tradition we the occurrence an honor. 
fact, I have even seen students 
deride if I would like to follow are assuming. My college does not have a wear is needed is at the Oxford eating at them at 4:00 in the
While this mind-numbing formal dinner for the students Union Debating Society. This is
topies in that subject of study. 
morning.
speeeh was going on a young (formal meaning either aca­the extracurricular I partici­
Many timns, the lecturer will be Between the city and college
woman stood up in front of me demic gowns or dinner jacket pate the most in and thus know
a tutor, and these lectures will activities there is always much 
help students pass their exami­and yelled, "Get out the way! I required), except for special the most about. 
to do. There are also two fan­
nations. am going to faint!" She finished occasions. However, colleges Every week for the formal tastic museums that are free to I went to quite a few leetures and, thanks to the intense heat like Christ Church have formal debates the speakers all wear the public, as well as active
that had been generated by dinners every night and com­their cocktail dresses or tuxe­
in tlw first week before I de­
student and professional
more than 500 bodies, she fol­pletely formal. (both gowns dos. It is also not uncommon to
eided to follow a lecture by orchestras. 
Jonathan Glover. a moral lowed through on her promise, and tuxedo), every Sunday. It is see some of the male speakers I hope that these stories shed 
fainting right on my lap. a fun experience which gives wearing kilts as part of their
philosophnr. This is a great 
a little light on why I am havingsystem because you can have I was worried that this girl both the students and the attire. This is usually a sign the time of my life and would 
aeeess to somH of the best and I were in serious trouble, tutors an inflated sense of self­that they are from Scotland, 
encourage anyone else to do 
teaehers in the world, many of for, of eourse, different reasons. worth, thus perpetuating the and is often ridiculed. 
the same. 
whom do not teach tutorials. Luckily, the young woman was myth that Oxford students are The students wear dinner This dichotomy between col­fine and no one found out about elitist. jackets for competitions be­If anyone would like to write 
me. Formal wear is also worn at tween colleges. I have made the 
leg•~ and University is symbol­and ask questions, please send ized in the matriculation cere­This ceremony not only made the many balls held throughout traveling team and have been your mail to 54 Walton Cres­
told to bring mine with me
mony held on the first Saturday me aware of the split between each term. This past week, a cent, Oxford OX1 2JQ.
of first week. When students college and University, but, group of friends and I went to when we travel to Liverpool. 
Terry Coyne (right), with a friend at one of the many formal social gatherings at Oxford. 
Holiday dinner at Saint Mary's 
BY DONNA BUECHE 
traditional court atmosphere. 
Accent Writer Also featured are a royal
As Christmas Present consort, soloists, and a dance SW!leps by in its usual fast troop drnssed as peasants. paen, the Saint Mary's Collt~ge Along with a taste of the DE>partment of Music offers traditional customs, the 
an nseape to Christmas Past: guests receive a sampling of a 
the Madrigal Christmas Henaissance dinner. Wassail. 
Dinnor. In its 18th year tlw a traditional, spicy Christmas 
program takes place this punch will be served hot, 
Thursday, Friday, and along with the main eourse. 
Saturday evening in Hegina prime rib. Desert indudes 
llall at the College. Seating fabled figgy pudding. In 
bPgins at 6:30 and dinner is addition, there is plenty of 
served at 7:00p.m. entertainment during the 
Dirncted by Naney Menk, servings. aceording to Naney
choral activities director at Menk. 
Saint Mary's, the dinners The Madrigal Christmas 
reereate a Renaissance-era Dinners have traditionally
holiday feast during the reign been a big draw for the 
of Henry VIII. people in the South Bend 
With the Saint Mary's community, but students are 
Women's Choir and the Notre also welcome. Tickets are 
Damtll Saint Mary's Collegiate $22.50 per person and may be 
Choir performing pieces from purchased at the Saint Mary's 
sixtmmth century England, a College box officP in 
Master of Ceremonies ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
dinlcting the dinner, and a Hopefully this unique experi­
jester entertaining the guests, ence will eontinue into 
the program takes on a Christmas Future. 
Jazz band comes into its own 
BY COLLEEN CRONIN 
Accent Editor 
Looking for something to do on Sunday night besides home­work? This Sunday you will have the opportunity to catch Touchstone, a hot Chieago jazz show. 
RITZ V.I.P. Productions, a newcomer to the area, is pre­senting "A holiday Celebration. ..A Night of Jazz!" at the Ramada Inn in South Bend at 

8:00 p.m. Touchstone is known for their unique combination of jazz, funk rock, latin and new age music, which results in a sound diverse enough that practically anyone will enjoy it. They rely on not only electronic instruments but the acoustic 
mance take the listener on a backing up major shows and
standbys as well. 
roller coaster ride of musical recording artists. They came"From the beat of Michael 
experience," says Fred Buyer of together around 1984 inJackson and Earth, Wind and RITZ. Chieago.
Fire to the contemporary 
The five members of
sounds of David Sanborn and Touchstone have all performed Tiekets arfl available at all
Grover Washington Jr., the 
separately nationwide, with TicketMaster locations in theband's arrangements. originals their own groups in addition to area and are $10.
and tight, impressive perfor-

~----------------------------..~----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1990 
Vanderbilt players try to adapt to new head coach 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) -Still stung over the removal of Watson Brown as Vanderbilt's football coach, Commodore football players are now trying to adapt to new head coach Gerry DiNardo. DiNardo, who is credited with developing top-ranked Colorado's I-Bone offense, on Monday accepted the challenge of revamping the Vanderbilt University football program. 
DiNardo was introduced by athletic director Paul Hoolahan at a morning press conference less than 18 hours after an emotional meeting between Brown and his players. Brown then publicly announced he was stepping down as football coach after five seasons at his alma mater that produced a 10-45 record. 
"The only consolation is that coach DiNardo is coming in. He seems like he can get the job done," said Vanderbilt junior safety Steve Medes after listening to DiNardo speak to the school's athletic staff and the media. 
"I think it's a great choice," said offensive tackle Bobby Craycraft. "Colorado has a winning tradition and I think he can come in here and be a win­ner. We're still hurting over coach Brown, but we have to rebound." 
DiNardo signed a five-year contract. He said he is con­vinced he can turn around a football program which has produced only four winning seasons since 1960 and won only four of 33 Southeastern Conference games under Brown. 
"The challenge at Vanderbilt is to identify the student-athlete that not only wants to compete in maybe the best classrooms in the country, but also wants to compete in a great conference. I believe with our resources and with all our energies we can attract enough of these kind of student-athletes," said DiNardo, 38. 
DiNardo, who said he is now on the job full-time at Vanderbilt and will not be a part of Colorado's Orange Bowl game with Notre Dame on Jan. 1, received high praise from Buffaloes coach Bill McCartney. 
'Gerry is ideally suited to turn the Vanderbilt program around," McCartney said. "He is bright, resourceful, a great recruiter and a tireless worker. He will work feverishly to suc­ceed. But, most important, he is very sensitive to student-ath­letes and develops a good rela­tionship with his players." 
After learning of Brown's re­assignment to a fund-raising position within the university, Vanderbilt players on Sunday night circulated a petition in which they asked Hoolahan and Chancellor Joe B. Wyatt to name current Commodore as­sistant coach Steve Sloan as the successor. 
"Our choice was coach Sloan, but obviously the decision al­ready had been made," said sophomore fullback Carlos Thomas, the Commodores' leading rusher this season. "We're still upset about the sit­uation and I'm still in shock." 
DiNardo said he is aware that he is replacing a very popular figure on the Vanderbilt campus. 
"I've never met coach Brown, but I understand his popularity. It's something I can't do a great deal about," DiNardo said. "I am concerned about the players and their ability to rebound from this situation and go on and set their energies toward Sept. 7 (1991) when we go to Syracuse. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
I 
Tesa­
For Sale 

Lost: Nikon camera. At Flanner llove you.
Ski Rack $50.00 

NOTICES Formal. If found please call x1192 FOR RENT Trebor
TV color & remote

and ask for Tom. Camera contains BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY call 255-2719 TYPING AVAILABLE film with great sentimental value. 
For sale VW GTI '84
219-291-7153
287-4082 I lost a black "Sun Ice" ski 
for INFO. call 255-2719 TYPING term jacket with fluorescent blue 
Apts/Dorms-What's the differ­Double bed, Dresser, Desk, 
papers/reports/letters/resumes. and red stripes and a blue 
ence? GET A HOUSE! 6 avail.: 4-Dining room table, Sofa.
Pick up and delivery available. inner lining. If found please ALL MEN'S HAIRCUTS $5 OFF.
6 BRs; Exc.Locations; Safe; Lndy; Call277-2238277-5134 call Phil at x1436. 
Character; 233-9947/287-3530. MENTION THIS ADD AT CAMPUS Cathy. 
HAIRCRAFTERS SMC SKIS, boots(8 1/2), poles. Must ENJOY THE SNOW, X-COUNTRY 
GOOD THRU 12-20-90 1 female needed to share a brand sell, moving to Florida. 272-3932. LOST-vermont drivers license 
new condo at Oakhill! Your ownif found, please call 4500 Are you GAY or LESBIAN?
· bedroom/bath. Free laundry + 
WE HAVE IT ALL! 

Do you feel out of place here? semester. $250/mo. Call 288-0792. Nonhwest Airline ticket to go parking. Move in now or next FOR SALE: $118 dollar 
LOST!!!!! 
ANGELS*ANY*ATIIC DOLLS
If you need a frien to talk to, anywhere in the continental U.S.
family crest keychain with a set 
BEARS •BUNNIES

feel free to call usMust be used before Dec. 18. I will 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW' 
of dorm and car keys on it-if found 
BASKETS* BAGS* BLANKETS

DUSTY or CHRIS x2546 
ROOMS FOR RENT 2ND SEM. take best offer. Please call Sue at
call #4500,thanks 
DAYTONA BEACH •.,mSff9' 
CARDS* CANDLES*
and6-7 BDRM. HOME. INDIVIDUALS 2770.

7 NIGHTS 
WILL x3028 
CALLIGRAPHY

OR GROUPS. 
SOUrH PADRE ISLAND ..,... Sf29' 
HELP!
S AN[I 7 NIGHTS $ ,. 
CDFFEES*CDCOAS

232-1776.
Friday night at the Linebacker 
STEAMBOAT .,~ 96 
TICKETS 
CHRISTMAS

2. 5 AND 7 NICHTS 
I lost a gold lighter engraved MONDAY SPECIAL PRIVATE ROOM FOR GRAD 
NDTES*CDMPUTER PAPER

FORT LAUDERDALE ·~·SfJ7' 
w/MIKE. This had great senti­
7 NIGHTS 
STUDENT, UTILITIES, $200/MO. ORANGE BOWL TICKETS $10.00 OFF PERM & HAIRCUT 
COLORING BOOKS*CRAYONS
mental value and I'll give $25 
PANAMA CITY BEACH uoo• Sf24' 
SHARE KITCHEN & COMMON CALL (800) 226-8499 COSIMO'S SHAPES & LINES
1 NIGHTS 
DRIED FRUITS* DRIED

to anyone who returns it 277-1875ROOMS WITH FIVE OTHERS. 
CORPUS CHRIST/ I 
FLOWERS

(which is more than a new (Mondays Only) 
232-8444 noon-6. 4 ORANGE BOWL TICKETS 
MUSTANG ISLAND ,_1108' 
one would cost) I don't care 
EGGNOG*TAFFY

5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
FOR SALE: ROW 15, 25 yard line.
how you got it, but please 
FARSIDE

HILTON HEAD ISLAND ·~·'ff2' 
(305) 255-3432.

S AND 7 NIGHTS 
give it back. Call Mike X3479 
CARDS* BOOKS*MUGS

RYAN DARGIS HAS A HICKEY! 
CALL roLL FREE TODAY 
LG. BEDROOM IN LG. HISTORICor Jim X3669 
GREAT GIFTS*GOURMET

HOME DOWNTOWN. ORANGE BOWL TIX 
1·800·321·5911 
HEAVENLY HANDCRAFTS SMOKERS ONLY. So does STEVE H. 
AVAIL JAN. 1. 289-4383. NON­317-879-8497 
INCENSE* IRISH 

I'm not mean enough to 
SWEATSHIRTS 3 BDRM HOUSE, BASEMENT, FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. CALL write his last name. 0 man. 
WANTED ORANGE BOWL TICKETS (4) 
JAX*JDLLYGOOD TYME 

GARAGE, 18195 BULLA RD., TOM (513) 931-7116. LEAVE 
KEEPSAKES'KEN*

Earn $300 tp $500 per week $41 0/MONTH. 256-9500 1-5. MESSAGE. 
KALEIDOSCOPES

Reading Books at home. Call My Dearest 
LDTIONS*LAMBS*LICDRICE
$$FOR BOOKS 1-615-473-7440 Ext. 8 340 House for rent next semester. 1 ORANGE BOWL TIX'S. 50 YD. WEIRD SCIENCE GUYS, Used Texts bought and sold 
MISTLETDE*NAURA*MUGS 
bedrm. $150/mo. Call Paul at 287-LINE. (305) 891-0581. Thank you so much for everything. 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 MATH TUTOR NEEDED FOR 
NOTE CARDS*NUTS*

2159 You're truly the 
corner of NO ave and Howard GMAT, PREFER GRAD STUDENT, 
NECKLACES

best sons a mother could have and IF INTERESTED CALL 255-7815. 
DH! ORNAMENTS

the best friends a mermaid could GRAD STUDENT'S \ PERSONALS 
PAULA*PILLOWS*PHDTO
ever want.

FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED X-MAS PARTY HOT! HOT! HOT! 
ALBUMS

FOR TURTLE CREEK APT hi agTHIS FRIDAY NIGHT BREAKTHROUGH NUTRITIONAL 
FROM We Love you Kate ! 
QUAINT MINI QUILTS

WILSON COMMONS PRODUCTS DISTRIBUTORS Hi Dave!
JAN.-MAY WAKE N' BAKE! SPRING BREAK 
RED RIBBONS*ROIE

BRING 2 CANNED GOODS NEEDED/GROUNDFLOOR Love,
PLEASE CALL 273-9406 OR JAMAICNCANCUN FROM $429 
SACHETS*SHAMPODS*SDAP
FOR ADMISSION ! OPPORTUNITY. CALL (612) 438­Mom
283-2805 ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL 
STOCKING

6317.24 HOUR RECORDED FREE!! BOOK EARLY AND SAVE 
STUFFERS*SECRET SANTA

MESSAGE. 
$30! 800-426-7710 
TOYS*TINS*10 CENT CANDY
Happy Birthday Bill Sorgos­2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 MINUTES 
LOST/FOUND 
TRAil MIXES

FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON ORANGE BOWL SPECIAL Stay you're 22, you're a senior, and youOVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 
UPS* UPS* UPS

really are gorgeous.
425 MONTH+DEPOSIT on your own private yacht for only 
mo. Summer, Yr. round, All 
VICTORIAN

232-3616 $28.50/pp/day.
Lost: trench coat­Countries, All fields. Free info. 
DOLLS*ORNAMENTS*V~C

Need a ride to Chicago on Fri 12/7
Special Air Fares, too! I 
found: similar trench coat Write IJC, PO Bx 52­to return on Sat 12/8 Call Jenny 
WAX POTPOURRI*WREATHS
HOUSES AVAIL FOR 91-92 YR. Call Easy Sailing for details 
at Macandless SYR at Haggar Corona Del Mar CA 92625 
5-6 BDRMS. REASONABLE 1 (800)780-4001. x2146
Hall call Steve x2924 
RATES. 232-1776. Jack 
X-TRA NEAT STUFF 

1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, davE Blair O'Connor is a major pen-iss. 
LOST: Silver Watch If you videotaped the or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, !urn., Stella Just kidding. He is really cool. 
Outside O'Shag Tenn or USC games, washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or fleTchTuesday 11/27 12:15 could you give me a call?? -Lisa 
ZIP CODES AND ZONES FOR

288-5653 darrEnPLEASE call Jen #2531 x4842 
UPS1 

chRis 1991-92 Reserve your 6,5,4, 
Whitney, or 2 bedrm. house. Safe, furn., "Oh, isn't that cute I" Let's meet in a hot tub sometime. 
•••• CINCINNATI washer/dryer. Bruce: 234-3831 or know I'm a little young for you. 
WATCH FOUND 
THE COUNTRY

Can I still come? 
288-5653 1~1~1~1~1~1~1~1~1~
in LaFortune I desparately need a ride to Love, Butch LYILYIL YIL YILYILYILYILYILYI 
HARVESTER

If it belonged to you, Cincinnati on the friday of final P.S. See you Friday.
Female Roommate needed for YIL YILYILYILYIL YILYILYILYIL 
call and descnbe. week, and will certainly help with 
LAFORTUNE LOWER

Campus View Apt. call Brigid Joe 271-121t gas $. Please call Kristen 
#2628 To the (LeMans?) girls whose 
LEVEL

McDonald at x2927. 
Jeff Bur ec te s
dates passed out on 
M-F 12-5

3rd Annual
SATURDAY NIGHTHELP HELP HELP HELP HELP CINCINNATI 
SAT. 11-2

Single 2-Room Apt. 


Spring Break Party! 
I CAN'T FIND MY GLASSES !1!!!1! 
$125w/ util. Get in touch. 
239-6714

and looking for them without 15 min. walk from Campus them is not an easy task. Brown VOCALIST or 
Bob x3234 The Dj. 283-1832
frames. Lost-KEYBOARDNOCALS wanted for somewhere...maybe north quad. hard rock band with demo and Plase contact Paula@ 4096. promo. Ready to play now, but will 
JULIE ROBERTSON
Thanks. wait until next semester. Male or 
FOR SALE 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY female. Call 283-3072 and leave LOVE,MOM,DAD,DAN,ANDY
message. 
ONEWAYTIX Jim-"My love of life just gets 
I LOST MY PURSE IN 
MANCHESTER, NH TO S.B. stronger as the days go by." 
O'SHAUGHNESSY ON I need a ride to Mpls. X-mas break. 
For My Name After
1/13 @$75 Thanks for being the inspiration. 
THURSDAY, 11/29. PLEASE CALL Will pay for gas. 
X4064 1=1ose 
Break!!

PATIY 277-7685. Nell x2525 

~ 

Scoreboard
Wednesday, December 5, 1990 


NBA STANDINGS  HOW THE TOP 25 FARED  NHL STANDINGS  
All Tlmeo EST EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlontlc Dlvlolon w L Boston 13 3 Phila. 12 8 New York 7 9 NewJeraey 7 10 Miami 5 11 Washington 5 11 Control Dlvlolon Detroll 13 3 Chicago 11 8 Milwaukee 11 8 Cleveland 10 8 Charlotte 8 8  Pet .813 .887 .438 .412 .313 .313 .813 .847 .847 .556 .500  GB 2 8 6.5 8 8 2.5 2.5 4 5  LID 9-1 7-3 3-7 5-5 2-8 3-7 9-1 8-2 6-4 5-5 6-4  Streok Won Won LOll Won LOll LOll Loa! Won L0111 Won loa!  1 2 2 1 2 1 1 6 2 I 1  How lhe Associated Preas' lop 25 teams tared Tuesday: 1. UNLV (1-0) did not play. Next: at Navada. Saturday. 2. Arizona (6-0) did not play. Next: at Northern Arlzona. Wednesday. 3. Arkansas (5-1) did not play. Next: va. Louisiana Tach at Little Rock, Art<.., Wednesday. 4. Syracuaa (5-0) boa! North Carolina Stale 86­79. Next: VI. Alaaka-Anchorage,Frlday. 5. Duke (5-1) did not play. Next: at No. 6 Georgetown, Wednesday. 6. Georgetown (3-0) did not play. Next: VI. No. 5 Duke, Wednesday. 7. Indiana (5-1) beat Vanderbltt 84-73. Next: VI. Niagara. Frlday.  All Times EST WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division w NY Rangers 17 Philadelphia 17 New Jersey 14 Washington 15 Pittsburgh f2 NY Islanders 9 Adams Division Boston 15 Montreal 13 HarHord 11 Buffalo 9 Quebec 5  L 9 11 10 14 13 16 B 13 12 10 18  T 5 2 4 0 2 2 4 3 4 7 6  Pts 39 36 32 30 26 20 34 29 26 25 16  GF 120 110 107 98 115 73 89 87 78 80 80  GA 91 93 93 92 109 101 82 91 86 81 129  
Indiana 6 11 .353 Atlanta 4 10 .286 WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldw..t Dlvlolon w L Pet San Antonio 9 4 .892 Houston 9 7 .563 Utah 9 7 .563 Dallas 6 7 .462 Minnesota 6 11 .353 Orlando 4 13 .235 Denver 3 13 .168 Poclllc Dtvlolon Portland 15 1 .938 Golden St. 11 6 .847 LA Laken1 8 5 .815 Phoenix 8 6 .571 LA CI!Jpera 8 8 .500 Seattle 4 10 .286 Sacramento 1 13 .071 Mondoy'o Gomeo 801ton 135, Seattle 1 02 Utah 135, Washington 101 Tueodoy·o Gomeo Loto Gomeo Not Included Cleveland 121. Denver 117 Portland 68, Miami 95 New Jan~ay 106, Seattle 102 Orlando 113, New York 102 Philadelphia 109, Milwaukee 108, OT Chicago 155, Phoenix 127 Minnesota 63, Indiana 81 Atlanta at Houoton, (n) Detroit a1 LA Lakan~, (n) Dallal al Sacramento, (n)  7.5 8 GB 1.5 1.5 3 5 7 7.5 4.5 5.5 6 7 10 13  2-8 1-9 l10 7-3 6-4 7-3 4-6 3-7 3-7 3-7 9-1 6-4 7-3 5·5 6·4 1·9 1-9  LOll L011t Streok Won Won Won L0111 Won Won Lost Won Won Won Lost Won Lost Lost  I 9 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 4 3 6 2 2 6 6  8. UCLA (4-0) did not play. Next: vs. St Mary's, Cain., Wednesday. 9. Ohio Stale (3-0) did not play. Next: VI. Chicago State, Saturday. 10. North Carolina (3-1) did not play. Next: vs. No. 14 Connecticut, Thursday. 11. Pittsburgh (4-1) did not play. Next: vs. Man~hall, Thun~day. 12. Alabama (2-2) lost to Wlchlla Stale 74-71. Next: at No. 10 North Carolina, Saturday, Dec. 15. 13. Georgia (4-0) did not play. Next: at Mercer, Saturday. 14. Connecticut (3-0) did not play. Next: at No. 10 North Carolina. Thun~day. 15. Southern Mississippi (2-0) did not play. Next: at Tennessee Tach, Thursday. 16. Oklahoma (5-1) beat No. 23 Texas 96-68. Next: VI. Virginia Commonweahh, Saturday. 17. St. John's (3-0) did not play. Next: VI. No. 20 Georgia Tech allhe Capttal Centre, Wednesday. 18. LSU (2-1) did not play. Next: vs. Chapman, Frlday. 19. Michigan State (1-2) did not play. Next: at Detroit. Saturday. 20. Georgia Tech (2-1) did not play. Next: vs. No. 17 St. John's at the Capital Centre, Wednesday. 21. South Carolina (4-1) did n01 play. Next: vs. No. 24 Temple, Saturday. (tie) Virginia (4-2) did not play. Next: VI. Vanderblll, Saturday. 23. Texas (1-2) Iosito No. 16 Oklahoma 96-68. Next: VI. Loyola, Md .. Friday. 24. Temple (1-1) did not play. Next: at St. Bonaventure, Wednesday. 25. Kentucky (3-0) did not play. Next: vs. Kansas, Saturday.  CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division w L T Pts Chicago 18 9 2 38 St. Louis 15 9 3 33 Detroit 13 11 4 30 Minnesota 7 15 6 20 Toronto 6 22 1 13 Smythe Division Los Angeles 16 7 3 35 Calgary 15 9 4 34 Vancouver 14 12 2 30 Winnipeg 9 17 4 22 Edmonton 9 14 2 20 Tuesday's Games Boston 5, Detroit 4, OT Vancouver 4, N.Y. Islanders 2 Wednesday's Games Montreal at HarHord, 7:35p.m. Washington at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Minnesota at Toronto, 7:35 p.m. Vancouver at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. N.Y. Rangers at Calgary, 9:35p.m. Quebec at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. Winnipeg at Los Angeles. 10:35 p.m. Thursday's Games Montreal at Boston, 7:35 p.m. Buffalo at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. N.Y. Islanders at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Toronto at Minnesota, 8:35p.m. NFC INDIVIDUAL LEADERS NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Quarterbacka  GF 96 91 104 77 79 110 119 87 98 77  GA 71 76 105 97 133 82 91 89 108 76  
AFC INDIVIDUAL LEADERS  WOMEN'S AP TOP 25  Simms, Giants  An 282  Com 170  Ydo 2107  TO 15  tnt 4  
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Quortorbacka An Com Kelly, Buff. 309 194 Moon, Hou. 466 293  Yds 2453 3684  TO 21 27  lnt 9 12  Top Twenty Five women's basketball teams, with first­place votes of 56 women's coaches In parentheses, record through Dec. 2, total points basad on 25 points for a first-place vote through one point for a 25th-place vote as compiled by Mel Greenberg of The Philadelphia Inquirer: Record Pis Pvs  Cunningham, Phil. Ryplen, Wash. Montana, S.F. Harbaugh, Chi. Everett, Rams Testaverde, T.B. Miller, All.  362 205 444 268 393 287 388  211 115 277 159 224 163 222  2711 1401 3452 1963 2931 2355 2735  24 12 25 10 19 13 17  9 2 14 4 11 12 14  
DeBarg, K.C Marino, Mia. Brlster. Pitt. Schroader. L.A. Krieg, Sea. Eslason, Cln. Elway. Den. O'Brien, Jets  328 379 297 256 334 328 378 361  181 224 t73 t39 198 184 220 194  2422 2469 2021 2095 2432 2445 2619 2416  17 14 15 8 12 18 10 10  3 9 11 7 13 17 11 10  1. Virginia (47) 2. Auburn (7) 3. N. Carolina St. 4. Georgia 5. Louisiana Tech 6. Tennessee 7. Stanford &.Arkansas  3·0 2·0 4-0 2-0 2-0 1-1 2-1 5-0  1,596 1,522 1,406 1,392 1,339 1,237 1,228 1.181  1 2 7 4 5 3 6 8  Gannon, Minn. Walsh, Daii.-N.O. Rushers B.Sanders, Del. Anderson, Chi. Johnson, Phoe.  252 233 All 184 216 191  139 138 Yds 905 853 823  1760 1512 Avg 4.9 3.9 4.3  14 9 LG 145 52 41  12 9 TO 8 10 4  
Ruohoro  9. Purdue 10. Northwestern  3-0 2-0  1,043 957  9 14  Bynar, Wash. E.Smith, Oall.  188 187  761 739  4.0 4.0  22 148  5 7  
Butts, S.D. Thomas, Buff.  Att 243 199  Yds 1154 1007  Avg 4.7 5.1  LG 52 180  TO 8 7  11. Long Beach St. 12. Mississippi 13. Penn St.  1-1 4-0 2-0  921 838 824  10 15 17  Cunningham. Phi Anderson, Giants Gary, Rams  1.94 185 169  678 669 651  7.2 3.6 3.9  t52 28 48  4 8 13  
Humphrey, Den.  214  951  4.4  !37  4  14. UNLV  2-0  742  16  G.Anderson, T.B.  145  583  4.0  22  3  
Okoye. K.C.  218  719  3.3  32  6  15. Iowa  3-1  724  11  Sherman, Phil.  138  562  4.1  27  1  
Word. K.C. Brooks, Cln.  123 136  676 649  5.5 4.8  153 35  2 4  16. Washington 17. Clemson  3-1 3-0  597 545  13 19  Receivers  
Stephens. N.E.  160  619  3.9  26  1  18. N. Illinois  5-0  427  NO  Yds  Avg  LG  TO  
Fenner, Sea. Smith, Mia.  153 162  607 605  4.0 3.7  28 33  9 7  19. Rutgers 20. Texas  3-0 0-3  412 365  22 12  Rica, S.F. Rison, All.  74 68  1137 994  15.4 14.6  164 175  11 10  
Allen, Raiders  138  558  4.0  28  10  21. Southern Cal  2-1  269  24  Byars, Phil.  65  690  10.6  54  1  
22. South Carolina  3-1  193  •  25  Clark, Wash.  62  927  15.0  47  6  
Receiver•  NO  Yds  Avg  LG  TO  23. Maryland 24. LSU  3-2 3-2  176 130  18 20  Ellard, Rams Sharpe, G.B.  57 56  914 966  16.0 17.3  150 176  3 5  
Gtvlns, Hou.  59  815  13.8  180  7  25. Providence  5-0  1 08  Monk, Wash.  55  617  11.2  44  4  
Williams. Sea. Hill, Hou. Reed, Buff Duncan, Hou. Bentley, Ind. Toon, Jets A. Millar. S.D. Paige, K.C. JeHires, Hou.  58 56 56 54 52 51 50 50 49  589 797 739 649 521 680 787 786 590  10.2 14.2 13.2 12.0 10.0 t3.3 15.7 15.7 12.0  60 43 t56 !37 73 146 !31 186 146  0 4 4 1 1 6 6 3 5  Others receiving votes: Florida St. 93, DePaul 89, Connecticut 80, Western Kentucky 77, Vanderbilt 54, Richmond 45, Indiana 31, Butler 30, Stephen F. Austin 29, Nebraska 26, St. Joseph's 17, Utah 15, Kentucky 10, Bowling Green 6, Montana 6, St. Mary's, Calif. 6, Southwest Missouri 6, S. Illinois 5, Tennessee Tech 5, James Madison 3, Michigan 2, Notre Dame 2. Central Michigan 1, New Mexico St. 1, Washington St. 1.  Novacek, Oall. Johnson, Del. E.Mar1in, N.O. Martin, Oall. Punters Landela, Giants Saxon, Dall.  53 53 52 52 NO 52 63  597 563 742 583 Yds 2274 2723  11.3 11.0 14.3 11.2 LG 56 60  41 143 58 45 Avg 43.7 43.2  3 5 4 0  
Camarillo, Phoe.  49  2111  63  43.1  
Puntero  NO  Yds  LG  Avg  TRANSACTIONS  Barnhardt, N.O. Feagles, Phil.  47 53  1997 2240  65 60  42.5 42.3  
Starl<,lnd, Horan, Dan. Johnson. Cln. Roby, M1a. Hansen, N.E. Donnelly, Sea. Prokop, Jets Kldd, S.D. Barl<er, K.C. Tuten, BuN Punt Returnero Verdin, Ind. Price, Cln. Warren. Sea. Woodson, Pitt. T.Brown. L.A. Wor1hen, K.C. Fryar, N.E. Martin, Mia McNeil, Hou.  55 41 44 51 68 52 52 51 47 34 NO 21 21 18 28 25 25 21 25 19  2397 1780 1881 2146 2809 2134 2113 2000 1836 1323 Ydo 274 221 175 266 188 180 120 132 100  57 58 70 59 69 54 58 59 56 55 Avg 13.0 10.5 9.7 9.5 7.5 7.2 5.7 5.3 5.3  43.6 43.4 42.8 42.1 41.3 41.0 40.6 39.2 39.1 38.9 LG 36 166 39 t52 39 37 17 35 26  TO 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0  BASEBALL American League BALTIMORE ORIOLES--Traded Dave Gallagher, outfielder, to the California Angels for David Martinez and Mike Hook, pitchers; assigned Hook to Rochester of the International League. BOSTON REO SOX-Signed Matt Young, pttcher, to a three-year contract. CALIFORNIA ANGELS--Signed Ed Vosberg, pitcher. Traded Marcus Moore, pitcher, to the Toronto Blue Jays for Ken Rivers, catcher. to complete the Devon White trade. CLEVELAND INDIANS--Traded Cory Snyder, outfielder, and Lindsay Foster, infielder, to the Chicago White Sox tor Eric King and Shawn Hillegas, pitchers. KANSAS CITY ROYALS--Signed Dan Schatzeder, pitcher, to a one-year contract. MILWAUKEE BREWERS--Signed Edwin Nunez, pitcher, to a two-year contract. NEW YORK YANKEES--Agreed to terms with Steve Sax, second baseman, on a four-year  Fulhage, All. Newsome, Minn. Royals, T.B. Arnold, Del. Buford, Chi. Punt Returners Meggett, Giants Sanders. All. Gray, Del. Query, G.B. Taylor, S.F. Slkahema. Phoe. Bailey, Chi. V.Buck, N.O. Orewrey, T.B. Lewis, Clev.-Minn.  51 57 56 51 58 NO 30 20 28 29 16 26 32 25 18 20  2151 2389 2332 2108 2343 Yds 363 216 290 296 163 220 253 192 138 149  59 61 62 59 59 Avg 12.1 10.8 10.4 10.2 10.2 8.5 7.9 7.7 7.7 7.5  42.2 41.9 41.6 41.3 40.4 LG t68 t79 39 25 30 20 24 19 16 30  TO 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  
contract extension through 1995.  


page 14 The Observer 
Theus scores 29 in Nets' win 
Cleveland rallies behind Paddio in comeback victory 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Reggie Theus scored 29 points and Mookie Blaylock added 16 points, 10 assists and a key block in the final seconds Tuesday night as the New Jersey Nets beat Seattle 106­102 and sent the SuperSonics to their sixth straight loss. 
The victory was the fifth in six games for New Jersey. Seattle, off to its worst start since 1977­78, has lost 10 of 11. 
Although the Nets failed to score a field goal over the last 
7:37 of the second quarter, they took the lead for good on four free throws by Derrick Gervin and one each by Blaylock and Jack Haley. New Jersey led 55­49 at halftime. 
Cavs 121, Nuggets 117 
Gerald Paddio scored 12 points in the fourth quarter to lead Cleveland to a come-from­behind 121-117 victory over Denver to keep the Nuggets winless on the road in seven tries. 
Paddio, with 23 points, scored Cleveland's last three baskets, including two in the last minute, to break a 117 tie. Cleveland had fallen behind by as many as 20 in the second quarter. 
Cleveland took the lead at 113­112 on a layup by Brad Daugherty with 3:48 left to give the Cavaliers their first lead after the Nuggets grabbed a 9-8 lead in the first period. Daugherty finished with a team-high 31 points. 
Trail Blazers 98, Heat 95 

Terry Porter scored four of his 26 points in the final 30 seconds as the Portland Trail Blazers held off a late Miami rally and posted a 98-95 win over the Heat. 
The score was tied at 93 when Porter hit a 20-foot jumper with 
28.8 seconds remaining. After Miami's Grant Long hit one of two free throws at the 16­second mark, Porter was fouled by Long and hit twice from the line, making it 97-94 Portland. 
The Heat's Glen Rice then missed a 3-point effort and the Trail Blazers' Buck Williams grabbed the rebound. He was fouled and made one of two from the line to put his team up 98-94 with 7.4 seconds left. 
Magic 113, Knicks 102 

The Orlando Magic won their first road game in 11 tries this season and spoiled John MacLeod's debut as coach of the New York Knicks with a 113-102 victory. 
The Magic, who also snapped a seven-game losing streak, never trailed after Scott Skiles and Dennis Scott keyed an 11-0 run with 3-pointers early in the third quarter. 
Wolves 83, Pacers 81 

Sam Mitchell made two free throws with one-tenth of a sec­ond to play and the Minnesota Timberwolves defeated the Indiana Pacers 83-81 despite blowing an 18-point fourth-
quarter lead. 
Mike Sanders scored on a re­bound of a miss by Rik Smits with 2 1/2 seconds remaining as the Pacers, who trailed 66­48 entering the final period, tied the game 81-81. 
But Mitchell caught the in­bounds pass about 25 feet from the basket, took a." dribble and faked both Sanders and Smits into the air. Sanders was called for the foul. 
76ers 109, Bucks 1 08, OT 
Charles Barkley made two free throws with no time remaining in overtime as the Philadelphia 76ers beat the Milwaukee Bucks 109-108. 
Barkley, who scored a season­high 42 points, grabbed Rick Mahorn's blocked shot and was fouled by Jack Sikma. A three­point play by Alvin Robertson had given the Bucks a 108-103 lead with 2:42 to go. 
Ron Anderson made a jumper and Hersey Hawkins made two free throws to pull Philadelphia to 108-107 with 34 seconds remaining. Milwaukee called time out but Sikma was called for a charging foul with 17 seconds left. 
Bulls 155, Suns 127 
Michael Jordan scored 27 points and Horace Grant matched his career high with 25 and the Chicago Bulls won their sixth straight game, a 155-127 stomping of the Phoenix Suns. 
The total was a Bulls' regular­season record for points in a regulation game and was a point shy of the mark set in Portland in four overtimes. It was the Bulls' fourth con­secutive win where they have beaten an opponent by at least 


Swim 
continued from page 20 

getting better and improving. But I can't see what the years ahead hold for us winning and not winning." 
For the time being, Welsh will sit in his office, be bothered bv 
Philadelphia 76er Rick Mahorn (44) guards Boston Celtic Kevin McHale. Philadelphia defeated Milwaukee 109-108 on Tuesday. 
24 points. 

Kevin Johnson led Phoenix with 25 points, while Tom Chambers had 23, all in the first half. 
the obnoxious music outside and watch his program progress ahead of schedule. 
"We've been ahead of our plan (for the future) at every step, which probably means it's time to write a new plan," says Welsh. "What's happened from last year to now is so dramatic that it's time to write a new plan. A clean slate for 1991." 

.. 

page 16 The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1990 
... 
Adams's late goal sinks Isles 
East Germany may have 
UNIONDALE. N.Y. (AP)-Greg Adams' tie-breaking goal with 
5:13 left in regulation led the Vancouver Canucks a-4-2 victory over the New York Islanders on Tuesday night. 
Steve Bozek intercepted an errant Islander clearing pass inside the blue line and fed the puck to Adams. who skated across the crease and flipped the puck over Glenn Healy's pads. 
Trevor Linden wrapped it up for the Canucks with a short­handed, empty-net goal, his 15th, with six seconds left. 
Bruins 5, Red Wings 4 (OT) 
Randy Burridge scored his eighth goal of the season 1:03 into overtime as the Boston Bruins snapped Detroit's unbeaten streak at six games with a 5-4 victory over the Red Wings. 
After Steve Yzerman broke a personal seven-game goal­scoring drought with 1:02 re­maining in the third period, ty­ing the score 4-4, Burridge converted Bob Sweeney's re­bound for the game-winner. 

FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) -Experts in former East Germany developed a doping nasal spray before the 1988 Olympics that was virtually undetectable, a leading swimmer alleged Tuesday. 
Raik Hannemann, who on Monday admitted taking performance-e nh ancin g drugs, said the spray had the same effect as anabolic steroids and traces of its use would disappear after three days. 
Hannemann and other ath­letes on Tuesday accused former East German sports chiefs of developing a perfect, systematic doping program and of offering hard currency as an incentive for taking drugs. 
Meanwhile,. the magazine Stern said East German ex­perts conducted experiments on athletes with drugs de­signed to improve their per­
AP PllOkl 

formances by influencing their 
Boston Bruins defenseman Gary Galley (28) crashes into Toronto 
nervous system.
Maple Leafs goalie Peter lng. 

In Canada, Ben Johnson's former track coach said he 
used doping nasal spray 
did not take the recent reve­lations as vindication. The coach, Charlie Francis, has said many times that steroid use was widespread. 
''I'm not asking for it (vindication)," Francis said. "I just said what everybody knew.... I don't call it cheating. My definition of cheating is doing something nobody else is doing." 
The growing doping scandal is shaking sports in united Germany and threatening to cut off support from wealthy corporate sponsors. 
A newspaper in former East Germany suggested a "general international amnesty" for all athletes, to be followed by tougher con­trols and stiffer penalties for drug offenders. 
Hannemann, writing in a bylined article for the Berliner Kurier am Abend newspaper, said the nasal spray was developed by East German sports doctors. 

sore. That's when your forearm to the tight end earlier 
Lott 
adrenaline flow goes down and in the game, said his examina­you start feeling the pain." tion Tuesday was encouraging.
continued from page 20 
Lott, who crunched Bavaro "He said he thought they have himself is not ruling out playing with a tackle in the third quar-improved since last night," Lott against the Bengals on Sunday. ter and delivered a shivering said. 
'I haven't personally ruled out because I finished the game this week," Lott said Tuesday. "But 
~1that was mainly on adrenaline. We'll see. We'll take it day-by­
~ ~ 
day." 
A veteran safety known as one of the NFL's hardest tacklers, Lott was on crutches Tuesday after being examined at the 49ers' practice facility by Dr. Michael Dillingham, a team physician. 
"Both of my knees are pretty sore," said Lott, who indicated the left one was in worse shape. "I don't think any bones are broken or there are any chips. I think the MRI (magnetic reso­nant image) is going to show ... the extent of (the ligament damage)." 
Seifert said during his weekly news conference, "A number of our defensive players are banged up and sore." He said Lott's injuries were the most serious. Lott said he sprained his right knee tackling Bavaro on the Giants' second play of the fourth quarter. He sprained the left knee in the final minutes when Kevin Fagan dove over a pile players and crashed into Lott's left shin. 
Neither injury forced Lott to the sidelines of the punishing, physical game between NFC powers. 
"I just wanted to finish the game," Lott said. "At the time, I didn't think I was risking any further damage.... I just taped it up and kept playing.... Looking back now I probably was (risking a more serious in­jury). Luckily, I came out with­out anything happening." 
Lott shrugged when asked about staying in the game. 
"When you're still playing, you don't thin\of it as that bad," Lott said. I knew they were both unsta,ble, but you don't think of it as something that is going to be bad or worse than it is. 
"After the game was when I realized they were both pretty 
The new dead line 
for returning ~ 
SOPHOMORE SIBS ~ 
forms is Thursday, ~ Dec. 6. Return ~ forms to the Soph. ~ 
Class OHice and call 239-5225 for more information. 
be sent on December 14th. 
HEY KOOL-AID! OH YEAH! Pre-sweetened with NutraSweet ONLY 
For more information contact: Erin Lavelle, SUB General Manager, x4172 Nicole Farmer, Multicultural Executive Council, x2877 Lisa Bostwick, Student Senator #2, x2645 Joe Wilson, Student Senator #4, xl686
•srJ···························--·............................................................................................................._._........._........., 


Macleod to make Knicks debut tonight 
----------------------------------~------------­
Wednesday, December 5, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Fontes kicks Williams off Lions' squad, warns Peete 
PONTIAC, Mich. (API Citing discipline and attitude, Detroit coach Wayne Fontes threw a key player off the team and told quarterback Rodney Peete to quit whining and start producing. 
"It was something that had to be done," Fontes said after releasing linebacker Jimmy Williams on Monday. "Discipline and attitude is what we're trying to get across herB. 
"He's been a very good player here, a fine player. But I don't want anybody here to put themselves ahead of this team." 
Williams, the Lions' No. draft pic-k out of Nebraska in 1982. was released because of an altercation that took place on the side­line during Detroit's 23-17 loss in Chicago on Sunday. 
Fontes said he didn't see or hear the altercation because he was watching thH action on the field at the time. When he learned about it afterward, on the short flight home from Chicago, the coach told Williams they would talk early the next morning. 
Fontes wouldn't be more specific, but the incident is believed to have taken plaee in the seeond quarter shortly after a 10-yard roughing penalty against Williams gave the Bears a first down at the Lions' 11. The Bears scored four plays later to take a 14-10 lead. 
Following the penalty, Williams apparently had heated words with assistant coaches and teammates whHn he came off the field. 
"Had I known, I'd have taken him out right then," Fontes said. "I have a say­ing: 'The inmates should never run the asylum."' 
Earn
... 
while you learn. 
Manpower is looking lor students interested in earning great pay -plus commissions. We oHer flexible hours. And valuable training and business experience Plus free use of a personal computer. 
II you're a full-time student. Sophomore or above. with at least a B average and are computer familiar. Manpower needs you as a COLLEGIATE REP to promote the sales of the IBM Personal System/2 on campus. 
For experience that pays, call today 

-
Manpower, Inc. 320 W. LaSalle Ave. 234-0157 Contact: Kim Hall 

PUHCIIASE, N.Y. (APJ-The students are floundering, so the New York Knicks have turned to a teacher. 
John MacL!lod replacfld the fired Stu Jackson as coach of the NHA team Monday. MacLeod, the fifth winningest active coach in thfl league, makes his debut tonight against Orlando. 
At 7-8, New York is off to a sputtering start. The team has bnen critieiznd for a lack of diseipline and spark on the court. So general manager Al Bianchi, who was an assistant coach 
INSIDE CAR 
STORAGE 
DEC. 16-JAN. 17 CHRISTMAS BREAK 
683--1959
CALL NOW 
* 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

* 
APPROX. 21/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 


WHEN: 
*GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 
PLACE: Knights of Columbus Hall 
Master Mini Warehouses
DAMAGE: $12 couple, $8 stag 
CHRISTMAS AROUND THE WORLD ~90 

TODAY'S SCHEDULE: 
FIRESIDE CHAT : NOON-1 PM -CHANUKAH TRADITIONS­ISO LOUNGE, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
STUDY BREAK: 8 PM-1 0 PM PASTRIES, HOT DRINKS, AND MUSIC MAIN LOBBY, LAFORTUNE 

FIRESIDE CHAT FOR TOMORROW: SHALAKO TRADITION OF THE ZUNI TRIBE 

Still, MacLeod comes in with an optimistic attitude. He made that clear at Monday's practice. 
"We started to emphasize team play and the importance of pulling together and com­municating and helping out," MacLeod said. "I think we have the right personality. The key is the 'want to.' Do they want to just have a good year or be playing when others are at home watching on television? 
"I am a teacher. There is a misconception that pros don't need teaching. They need it ­some not as much as others. I do have a reputation as a teacher and this is a class­room." 
The students seem eager to learn. 
"There's no doubt when you look to compare John and Stu," said Trent Tucker, "John is a guy you got to look at for expe­rience. He's used to dealing with guys and with a lot of dif­ferent personalities. "I was very surprised it hap­pened now. Hut most of the guys know John and feel he is a good basketball coach and a good man, and he has been successful and he knows how to help our team reach its poten­tial." 
"People are expecting us to move to the echelon of better teams in the league. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
"What is icing?...(and other hockey myseteries)." Learn the fundamentals of hockHy at a short presentation by Notre Dame hockey coaeh Hie Shafer Wednesday, Dec. 5 12:15 -12:45 at the Montgomery Hoom in Lafortune. 
The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute will hold belt testing on Sunday. Dec. 9 from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. in room 219 of the Hockne M1~mnrial Gym. Visitors are welcome. 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be meeting tonight at 7 
p.m. in the basement of Pangborn. Topic this week: "What is involved in being a Christian?" B.Y.O.B. (Bring Your Own Bible). Athletes and non-athletes alike are welcome. Questions? Call Mark Zoia x 1606 or Cathy Bradshaw x4088. 
NAACP& BCAC 
FORMAL 
under MacLeod at Phoenix for 11 years, turned to his old friend. 
"His strengths are his disci­pline and he is a meticulous guy right down the line," Bianchi said. "It's difficult to be that consistent all the time, and that is one of the things that amazed me about him. "When we were at Phoenix. the 
6:00 bus left at 5:45 because everybody already was on it. If they were not there on time, they knew it would go, so they all would be there early. 
"If John says it's a 10:00 practice and the hands on the clock are straight up, it's time to start. 
"I think that kind of discipline and stuff filters down and it gets you to execute on the floor. 
I think those strengths are what this team needs, that discipline, that kind of guy." 
This is not the first time Bianchi has tried to hire MacLeod to coach the Knicks. When Rick Pitino left for Kentucky after the 1988-89 season, Bianchi first went after MacLeod, who turned around teams at the University of Oklahoma and with the Suns. 
"The timing was not right," said MacLeod, 53, who was with the Dallas Mavericks then and didn't want to move his family. "For me, now is right. I've been out of coaching for a year, doing television and scouting, so I stayed current." 
The current Knicks team doesn't shoot well from the outside, rarely sets any picks and has little identity, aside from Patrick Ewing's often­heroic work at center. What ultimately cost Jackson the job, however, was the Knicks' poor showings at home, where they are 3-5. 
Not that Jackson was working from strength. Bianchi did little to upgrade the team's roster after it lost to the Pistons in last spring's playoffs. 
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1990 
San Francisco closes in on relief pitcher Righetti 
ROSEMONT. Ill. (AP) -Dave Righetti and the money-mad San Francisco Giants zeroed in on each other Tuesday while the price of pitching again zoomed when the Boston Red Sox won a bidding battle for 18­game loser Matt Young at baseball's winter meetings. 
A Bay area trade that moved Ernest Riles to Oakland, a lesser deal that sent Dave Gallagher to California, a contract extension for Steve Sax and ail-day meetings between Vince Coleman and the Mets punctuated another active day. 
Off the field, there was action, too. National League owners met to maybe talk about expansion while American League owners met with elimi­nation of the designated hitter as a possible topic. 
Free agents still were the frenzy, and again the free­spending Giants led the way. They turned up the effort to get Righetti, and quickly moved into the best position to lure the northern California native back home from New York. 
The Giants already have spent $13 million for Willie McGee and $10 million for Bud Black this winter, and it could cost them about $8 million for three years to land the left-handed reliever. Oakland also entered the sweepstakes and so did Minnesota. but there was a chance to Twins might have to settle for Steve Bedrosian, who could become available if San Francisco gets it main man. 
Righetti, 32, saved 36 games last season and is the Yankees' all-time leader. But New York has offered just $2.1 million per year and besides, Righetti's preference is the Giants. 
Sax, Righetti's teammate for two seasons, will be staying with the Yankees. The second baseman, who had one year left on his contract, signed an ex­tension through 1995 for $12.4 million. 
"Steve loves New York," said Adam Katz, one of Sax's agents. "He's not one of those guys who wants to leave." 
Young, like Righetti, has been a starter and reliever in his ca­reer. Unlike Righetti, Young does not have a lifetime win­ning record-51-78, including son for Seattle. 
But these days, even if the pitching numbers are not good, the dollar numbers .are -par­ticularly for a left-bander. The Red Sox offered Young a three­year, $6.35 million contract, and that was a little more than Detroit and Baltimore wanted to pay. 
"We are thrilled to have Matt Young, and we see him as an important member of our starting rotation next season," Boston general manager Lou Gorman said. "He has a great arm, and we believe that he can be a winner on a contending ballclub." 
Young, 32, missed most of 1988 and 1989 with elbow trouble, but pitched 225 innings last season. He made 33 starts and had seven complete games. 
Dan Schatzeder, 36, made out pretty well, too. The lefty re­liever got $700,000 from Kansas City for one year, this after going 1-3 for Houston and the New York Mets. 
The Giants and Oakland each got what they wanted in a trade for reserves. San Francisco sent utility infielder Ernest Riles to the Athletics for promising outfielder Darren Lewis and a player to be named later. 
Riles, 30, hit .200 in 92 games last season. He is a .264 life­time hitter in six seasons, mostly with Milwaukee. 
"We've been looking for a left­handed hitting infielder with some versatility for several years," Athletics general manager Sandy Alderson said. "We've talked to the Giants about Ernest Riles quite a few times over the years." Lewis, 23, batted .229 in 25 games for Oakland. He has been a .300 hitter throughout his minor league career. 
The trade came a day after each team signed prominent free-agent center fielders ­McGee by the Giants and Willie Wilson by Oakland. 
Early in the day, Baltimore made its first move of the 
Make a contribution to life after death. 


APPhoto 

New York Yankees batting coach Darrell Evans (I.) congratulates reliever Dave Righetti following a Yankee victory. The San Francisco Giants have moved closer to signing Righetti at baseball's winter meetings. 
meetings, trading Gallagher to the Angels for two minor lea­guers. Gallagher, 30, played for the Chicago White Sox and the Orioles last season and batted .254. 
The Orioles got two pitchers, 27 -year-old David Martinez and 22-year-old Mike Hook. 
Later in the afternoon, NL owners held a league meeting and expansion may have been on the agenda. No official an­nouncement is expected until after the meetings on what ci­ties are on the "short list," although the topic might come up. 
In the AL meetings, the DH was due to be discussed. Commissioner Fay Vincent said during the World Series that he thought there might be enough support among owners to elim­inate the DH. 

American Heart A 
Association~ 

This space provided as a public service. 

REIILY CENTER FOR SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND VALUES 
UNDERGRADUATE LECTURE SERIES 
THE GREAT MOON HOAX: EXTRATERRESTRIALS IN 19TH CENTURY AMERICA 
MICHAEL J. CROWE 
PROFESSOR, PROGRAM OF UBERAL STIJDIES 
AND 

FACUL1Y FElLOW -1HE REllLY CEN1ER 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, AT 7:30P.M 
8-18 with a 3.51 ERA last sea-~========================:..-~!!!!!!~~~~~~!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
coupled with a tendency to drive to the basket, present a unique challenge for the Saint Mary's defense. 
"We will have to have a team effort on defense to stop their guard," said sophomore Julie Snyder. "She is their best player. We must also be patient on offense and take time to set up our plays. Their defense will break down." 
Senior Mea Tettenborn expects Saint Mary's to run against the slower Calvin College defense. "We've been working on our half-court offense this week," she said, "but if the fast break is there, we'll go with it. We just came off a tough loss. We want to beat Calvin College." 
... 
TilE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION 
MEMORIAL PR<ERAM., 
~~ 
II 

state of the art dance rock that can compete against the New Order's and Depeche Mode's on any given day." -Scene Ma~azine 
" ... garnering attention in the Heartland, there's style and talent here. II -Bill board Ma~azine 

COME AND DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY WITH 
F RI EXOTIC BIRDS DAY, DECEMBER 7 FROM 7:30 @ STEP AN CENTER  -9:30  
Admission  ~~  $3  student/$4  other  A  great  way  to  kick  off  your  last  

Tickets available at LaFortune Info Desk FREE FRIDAY before fipals!!! or at the door 


Wednesday, December 5, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS 
Wednesday, December 5, 1990 
3:30-4:30 p.m. Presentation by Paula Cook, Career Counselor. "Introduction to Resume Expert." In the Career & Placement Conference Room. Sponsored by Career & Placement Services. 
4:30 -5 p.m. Information Session about post-graduate opportunities. Center for Social Concerns. 
7 p.m. Film, "La Femme lnfidele." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by Communication & Theatre. 
8:10 p.m. Mainstage Season Play, "Accidental Death of an Anarchist." Directed by Mark Pilkinton. Washington Hall. (For further information please call 219-239-5956.) Sponsowd by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Wednesday, December 5, 1990 
3:30 p.m. First Wednesday Forum Lecture Series, "The American Landscape," Benedict Giamo, visiting assistant professor of American Studies. Room 131, Decio Hall. Sponsored by Ameriean Studies. 
4:15 
p.m. Student Group Presentation, "Matriarchal Structure of African American History." Room 205A O'Shaughnessy. Sponson~d by Gender Studies. 

4:15 
p.m. Pan11l Discussion. "Current Political Situation in African Countries." O'Shaughnessy Galleries. Sponsored by Snite Museum of Art. 


MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Chicken Fried Steak Pizza Deluxe Spaghetti and Meatballs Florentine Souffle Cheese Enchiladas Hoast Top of Hound Baked New Zealand Whiting Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
W~NI 1b ~~~Q. 
~ JO~E I 
M~OC UP" 
11E J\lST l)<l:.S"'~ WP..l'-lT \U f~C't: \JP "fu T\-11: Ft>-c.T T\11>-T I'll BE 1\.IE liFE OF E'I~R~ P;>.,RT'(. 
\ 
.ll/~ 
__ l~ 
..  
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  35 Author of the  62 Trademark  
1 As busy as -­5 Workers under Bligh or Oueeg 9 Dog-days word 13 Pilgrimage to Mecca 14 General assemblies 15 Alley Oop's girlfriend 16 qua non (necessity) 17 Prepared 18 Gulp at the bar 19 Start of a quotation 22 Hebrew letter 23 Marry 240nager  quotation 37 Uncommon 39 One thousand kilograms 40 Allegorical play by 35Across 43 Conger catcher 44 Spelunker's milieu 45 Frawley's role in "I Love Lucy" 46 Pool group 48 "Cinderella team" of 1969 50 Suffix with quack or fool 51-tree (cornered) 53 Quotation continued  63 Hardy or North 64 Currier's partner 66 Co-star of "I Spy" 67 Outwits a schemer 68 Traffic marker 69 Gadgets for Norman 70 Be persuasive 71 Jog DOWN 1 Gift openers' sounds 2 Bondsman's concern 3 Author Ferber  
27 Mind the baby  55 End of  4 Do a bouncer's  
30 The Dog Star  quotation  job 5 Pitch indicator  
6 Clean a pipe's  
bowl 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Provide funds for 


BJohn and David of films 26 Elbe feeder 9 Nosegay 28 He pulls in 
10 Jean Kerr's pushers "-Gotto Be 29 Fond hope Perfect" 
31 Fiddler's perch 32 Acclimate 
12 Joker 14 Saw 

33 A rival of Foyt 34 Down at heel 
20Krazy-of comics 

36 Small bird 21 Mrs. Bunker 
38 Chalet feature 
24 Sackcloth's 41 Cutthroat or partner steelhead 25 Line used for 42 Ma and Pa of 
adjusting a sail film fame 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER 
47 Lampoons 58 President of 
49 Haggard novel Albania 
52 "Their founts 
59 Symbol of purity--with tears": 
60 ComposerBrowning Novello54 Oust 61 Jay from New55 Womanizer Rochelle

56 Eye amorously 57 Awkward 62 D-day vessel 
person's cry 65 Tennis unit 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 





1990 
'[JCJCE'TS C5l9{ 'B'E P1.1'1{(Ji.Jts'EV 10'R... $2 .WT TJ{'£ L5t'.FO'l(_TU'J\f_£ S'Pl.I'D'E'Jif_I CE'llf_P£'1(_ 1'1{50'l('Jv(5t'TIO'J{ '/YES'l( 
STUDENT UNION BOARD1 


.. Sports
Wednesday, December 5, 1990 Wednesday, December 5, 1990 
Colorado's Williams captures Butkus, Stonebreaker finishes a distant third 
BOULD.ER, Colo. (AP) -28 in points. Players received "This is a proud moment for Colorado linebacker Alfred three points for a first-place our program and our fans," Williams went from best in the vote, two for second and one Colorado coach Bill McCartney Big Eight to best in the country for third. said. "It's one of the finest in one season. Notre Dame's Michael hours in Colorado football. 
On Tuesday, Williams was Stonebreaker received the Alfred has been a lot of fun to named winner of the Butkus other first-place vote and coach and to be around for four Award for his play in No. 1 finished third with 12 points, years. Colorado's 10-1-1 season. The followed by Miami's Maurice "I have felt that he is the outside linebacker had 88 Crum with five points and premier linebacker in the coun­tackles and 12 1/2 sacks. Clemson's Levon Kirkland with try, and nobody caused more 
"It was a surprise to see my­two. problems for opposing teams self as the winner with so many Williams, 6-foot-6 and 236 than he did. This is a great great names and universities on pounds, consistently disrupted tribute to him that he can end 
the list," Williams, a senior the passing games of most op­his career winning this award." from Houston, said. ''I'm ac­ponents during his four years McCartney has called Williams cepting this award with great with the Buffaloes. He gets an­the best athlete he has ever appreciation for the committee other chance to play for a; na­coached. for recognizing me." tional championship when Williams was voted the Big 
Williams edged Illinois' Colorado meets Notre Dame in Eight defensive player of the Derrick Brownlow for the the Orange Bowl. year in 1989 and 1990. award, in balloting by a panel Williams led the Buffaloes in Williams, expected to be of sports journalists and foot­sacks for four years and fin­among the top picks in next ball experts. Both players re­ished with a school-record 35. spring's NFL draft, will be ceived six first-place votes, but He also forced two fumbles, re­honored Saturday at the Williams topped Brownlow 31-covered one and blocked a kick. Downtown Athletic Club. 
SMC basketball 
49ers safety is biggest Monday night casualty
attempts to put Lott sprains both
the pieces back knees in tough
together tonight win over Giants 
By LYNNE BRAGG 
Sports Writer 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ­
After a disappointing 85-73 Ronnie Lott, whose two loss to the University of Chicago crunching hits on Mark Bavaro • in the championship game of capsuled the physical 
last weekend's Roundball punishment administered in the Classic, the Saint Mary's College 49ers-Giants game Monday basketball team hopes to night, may be the game's bounce back against Calvin biggest casualty. College Wednesday night at 8 Lott sprained both of his knees 
p.m. and suffered possible ligament "We lost a close game to the damage in the fourth quarter of 
University of Chicago," said the 49ers' 7-3 victory over the Coach Marv Wood. "We hope to Giants. Coach George Seifert put the pieces together and get said Lott was "very suspect" for back on the winning track." San Francisco's game Sunday 
The Belles (4-1) must contain against Cincinnati. Calvin College's point guard on A team physician told Lott he Wednesday to earn their fifth might not be ready for the victory of the season. Her speed 49ers' game in two weeks 
and outside shooting skills, against Los Angeles. But Lott 
see LOTI I page 16 


ND swimming programs need to write a new plan 
Irish swimming coach Tim Welsh is sitting in his office in the Rolfs Aquatic Center, trying to explain the goals of his program. Through the wall-sized window in his office, he can see and hear water aerobicizers moving to the beat of a spruced-up version of "Tequila." 
But through that window he can also see in the Rolfs pool a metaphorical 747 jet, which he and Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal like to invoke when talking about the Notre Dame swimming program. 
"This is a.world-class pool and we know it," says Welsh in his desk chair, gesturing out to the mon­strous body of water that constitutes the main part of Rolfs Aquatic Center. "If we have a world-class pool and a world-class university, why not fill it with world-class athletes? 
"It's like Mr. Rosenthal's metaphor: We've got a 747 on the runway, so we should put enough gas in it so it can take off." 
In the last year, the gas transport facilities have been mobilizing quickly and the swimming program is on its way to becoming nationally competitive. Just this past weekend, both the men's and women's teams won the National Catholic Championships. It was the first time both teams had won in the same year. 

"The fact that we were able to win it is a fulfillment of a dream," says Welsh. "It also gives us the confidence to say that the progress is going well, that we're moving in the right direction and that our aspirations of a national championship is appropri­ate." 
Hold it there. There's a difference between winning the National Catholics and winning the NCAA Championships. Welsh's point, however, is that the recent accomplishment is one more bag of asphalt in building the road to a national championship. More bags of asphalt: 
•Sophomore 
Tanya Williams and senior Becky Wood both competed in the national championships last season, the first time Notre Dame swimmers had participated in that tournament. 

•The 
women's team is receiving two additional scholarships each year until it reaches "eight to ten," according to Welsh. 

•Last 
weekend alone, the two teams set 21 university records. The swimmers are setting university records so quickly that Welsh says, "We're very close to having every one of our university records re-set during 1990." 

•The 
Rolfs Center enables Welsh to recruit "world­class" athletes because of the quality of its facilities. 


Currently, Welsh says, he is talking to "a couple" people who are world-ranked. 
True, the swimming teams have not had scholar­ships in the past, so it is natural that scholarship athletes will break existing records. But the men's team still is basically a non-scholarship program, and the women's has only one full scholarship. And they're breaking records that they've previously broken this year. 
"This has been done by people who have improved while at Notre Dame, and that helps us establish na­tional credibility," says Welsh. One such person who has seen the program grow is Brian Rini. A senior specializing in the freestyle and butterfly, Rini holds three individual university records and one relay record. 
"The difference in the quality of the team from when I came here to now is unbelievable," says Rini. "Every meet, we beat every record. We get better freshmen every year." 
And Williams, who has qualified in three events for this season's NCAA Championships in Indianapolis, likes the progress she's seeing at Notre Dame. 
"It's amazing, just in a year the amount of im­provement there's been," says Williams, who won three indh'idual "Every day it seems like the team's getting stronger and stronger. It's just going to keep 
see SWIM I page 14 




