
VOL. XXIII NO. 74 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
FBI searches for mail bomb clues 
ENTERPRISE, /\Ia. (APl -A have been approved for prop­junk dealer offernd prayers and erty other than ()'Ferrell's. He cooperation as FBI agents did not identify the property. searched his warehouse Tues­Agents unearthed the top of day looking for an old type­()'Ferrell's home septic tank writer that could help solve the Tuesday afternoon and began mail bomb killings of a judge pumping out its contents. Au­and a civil rights lawyer. thorities also plan to dig up a 
Wayne ()'Ferrell ate lunch S!lptic tank at the warehouse. with FBI agents and accompa­Archer refused to say what in­nied them to his warehouse vestigators were looking for in Tuesday afternoon, one day the septic tanks. after about 1 00 agents scoured Archer declined to describe O'Ferrnll's home, warehouse ()'Ferrell as a suspect. "He is and abandoned store, about 75 one of many people we have in­miles from Montgomery in terviewed," said the FBI agent. southnastern Alabama. Court records show O'Ferrell 
()'Ferrell, 46, a one-time rural lost a lawsuit heard on appeal prnachnr, said he asknd several by U.S. Circuit Judge Robert m<'mbers of his church "to pray Vance. The judge was killed for my family that we can get Dec. 16 when a package bomb through this thing and I've sent through the mail exploded asked them to pray for the FBI at his home in suburban Birm­to lind whatevBr they are look­ingham. ing for." Robert Robinson, a black civil AP Photo 
FBI agnnt Chuck /\rch!lr said rights lawyer in Savannah, Ga., FBI agents and other law enforcement personnel talk outside a warehouse they spent much of Monday tlwrf' have been no arrnsts and 
searching. FBI sources indicate the search is linked to several mail-bombings that resulted in the deaths of that thnw sBarch warrants see BOMB/ page 4 a federal judge and a civil rights attorney. 

Shenk: Nicaraguans want end to U.S. aid to Contras 
By BETSY PUNSALAN U.S. was founded." News Writer Congress granted $50 mil~ lion in aid to the Contras 
Nicaraguan people offer last April with the but one challenge to the peo· stipulation that the Contras pie of the U.S.: to live by the cease offensive military­ideals we claim as our own, operations. Witness for John Shenk of Notre Dame's Peace has since witnessed International Peace over 100 Contra attacks, Institute, said Tuesday Shenk said. during a discussion and The aid is intended to be video presentation. sent to .support democratic 
elections in the country, but 

Shenk is a representative Shenk called the U.S~·backed of Witness for Peace, a re~ Contras .as. "the ~reatest ligious organization through obstacle" t() free elections~ which he worked in saying that the Contras have Nicaragua for the past two shut down numerous voting years. registration sites. 
He said that Witness for Nicaraguans would be bet~ Peace believes that "As a ter off without out help; people of religious faith, we Shenk said. adding lhat th~ ...; believe that U.S. foreign U.S. should concantrate oni7 policy should be consistent with the values on which the 

Azerbaijanis attack military convoy 
MOSCOW (AP) -Extremists uprising Saturday, are "more the abyss, beyond which lie ambushed a military convoy in and more often being chosen as chaos and anarchy," the KGB Azerbaijan, killing two reserve targets" by local fighters, Tass warned. The public appeal was soldiers and a woman by­quoted Interior Ministry Maj. virtually unprecedented for the stander, Soviet media said Gen. Yevgeny Nechayev as say­usually secretive state security Tuesday. The KGB said the re­ing. agency. public was on the brink of an­Radio Moscow said Azerbaijani activists said sen­archy, and local politicians "irresponsible people" were timent to break away from pushed for secession. spreading anti-army and anti­Moscow was rising. Jeikhun 
Radio Moscow said the situa­Russian sentiments through un­Mula-Zade, a political scientist, 
tion in the Soviet Caucasus, signed letters and anonymous said the Azerbaijani Communist where Armenians and Azerbai­phone calls. · Party leadership was meeting janis have been battling for 11 Soviet TV reported Tuesday Tuesday and VVednesday and days, remained "very, very night that gunfire continued in would consider a break from tense" Tuesday. some areas of Baku, and war­the national party, as Lithua­
It said leaders of Soviet Azer­ships remained blocked by mili­nian Communists did last baijan and Armenia continued tants from leaving the Caspian month. negotiations to end the ethnic Sea city's port. In Gyanje, Azerbaijan's sec­violence, but little progress was Baku Radio, monitored by the ond-biggest city, the City Coun­reported. BBC in London, said two sol­cil demanded the Azerbaijani 
The death toll rose to 170, in­diers and a woman bystander parliament call a referendum cluding those killed in anti-Ar­were killed in an attack on a on the republic's secession from menian riots in the Azerbaijani military convoy. the Soviet Unien, according to capital of Baku and the clashes Azerbaijan's KGB expressed Lutviyar Nusibov, a Baku at­that ensued among Armenians, alarm in its appeal to residents torney. Azerbaijani lawmakers Azerbaijanis and Soviet troops. of the republic for calm, Radio have already threatened to do 
The soldiers, who smashed Moscow said. 
into Baku to quell the ethnic 
"Azerbaijan is on the edge of see SOVIET/ page 7 
South Bend shelter receives $400,000 gift 
By JEFF SWANSON Edward Hennessy, Jr., News Writer · Chairman and CEO of Allied­Signal, said "It is our hope that Allied-Signal Inc. has an­this grant and the expanded nounced a $400,000 grant to role of the Center will demon­the University of Notre Dame strate the effectiveness of coop­for the Center for the Homeless eration among industry, in South Bend. academia and government in 
The Center for the Homeless meeting the needs of society." is a multi-purpose facility "There are three categories of which has medical and counsel­people here. Those who are ing facilities in addition to mentally ill, those with drug sleeping accomodations and and alcohol problems, and q1eals for up to 150. According those who are unemployed," to Tammy Oehm, operations di­said Oehm. On Monday after­rector for the Center, the Center noon there were fifteen single serves both families and single people and ten families with people. twenty-one children at the Cen­
Although plans on how to use ter. Last Friday night the shel­the grant are tentative, Oehm ter was at near capacity with said that at least part of -the one-hundred-forty, she said. grant will be used to renovate In addition to food and shel­additional space. A counseling ter, the Center provides services office, a medical clinic, and a to help people to get back on legal aid office will be created, she said. see SHELTERI page 4 
The Observerrrom Hassett 
No bonas about it 

Juniors Kevin Rice, left, and Elisa McNitt analyze the fossilized remains of an armor plate from the dinosaur Triceratops in the Earth Sciences Building. They are working as research assistants for Earth Sciences Associate Professor J. Keith Rigby. 

.----------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
If you're sick, 
take this tip: 


Get well slowly 
This is a column about how to get sick over break. No, I'm 
Paige
not talking about 
wolfing 11 shots of A. 
tequila and leaning 
Smoron
out the window of 
your best friend's 
Mazda-this is about Assistant 
being victimized by a 
Accent Editor 
virus. It's best to contract one of the ----------------­more audible illnesses going around; for instance, sneezing fits re­sulting from your basie cold will gently re­mind your loved ones of your misery. 
Situat1~ yourself on a couch in a room ac­cessible to all members of the family. Proximity is key for continuous sympathy. 
Sleep. 
Take your temperatum. 
Cough weakly. 
Suggest to your mother that she give you 
a bell so you can summon her whenever you need something. Be puzzled when she seems disinclined to accommodate you. 
Explain that Carol Brady always gave out bells when the Bunch was sick. Tell her you wish you were a Brady. Tell her you could probably room with Jan. 
Cringe when you hear your brother answer the phone: "What? No, she can't come to the phone right now. She's sick as a 
dog." 
Sleep. Make your mom panic by asking for a bucket. 
Play with all the buttons on the remote control to the TV, even the "mute" button. Through random experimentation, lind that by pressing the "2" and the "7" buttons simultaneously, you can intercept the sig­nals from an obscure satellite and watch "Gidget Goes Hawaiian" with Latin subtitles. 
Take your temperature. 
Fantasize that if you watch the New Kids on the Block video over and over, you'll be miraculously healed, just like that retarded girl was on "A Current Affair." 
Get up to put a new movie in the VCR, then lose energy halfway there and collapse. Let your mom find you lying inert on the floor. 
Cough weakly. 
Contemplate death. Wonder if your roommate would still get a 4.0 if you died before the semester started. Wonder if they'd bury you in your prom dress. 
Wonder if your theology professor will feel bad about giving you a B-. Wonder if you should make a will. Wunder if your little brother really deserves to inherit your Motown singles collection. 
Sleep. 
Take your temperature. 
Be dismayed to discover you're back to 9H.6. 
I>eeide to milk it for one more day. 
Cough weakly. 
The opinions expressed in the Inside column are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Wednesday, January 24, 1990
The Observer 

WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather"" forecast tor noon, Wednesday, January 24. 40 Lines show high temperatures. 
• •COLD  WARM  • •STATIONARY  
Pressure  
®  ©  ~'  8m  [I]  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T·STORMS  

Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Ladies of Columbus will hold an organizational meeting today at 7:30 at the Knights of Columbus Build­ing. If you are interested in joining, be there. There is also an open house at the Knights of Columbus Building. 
The International Festival's general meeting will be held today at 7 p.m. in the ISO lounge, 2nd floor LaFortune Student Center. Anyone participating in the show or wiiling to help must attend. The show will be held on Saturday, Feb. 3rd, at 7:30 p.m. at Washington Ilall. For more information, contact the ISO office at 239­5243. 
WORLD 
More than 10,000 skilled workers held a rally Tuesday in East Berlin to denounce communism for killing East German craftsmanship and demand free­market reforms to revive it. Many of those attending also favored reunification with West Germany. The rally was called on short notice, over the opposition of top union leaders still loyal to the Communist system that rewarded them with comfortable bureaucratic positions. 
Black leader Nelson Mandela may be asked to mediate between the government and the outlawed African National Congress after his release from prison, Justice Minister Kobie Coetsee said Tuesday in Johannes-
NATIONAL 
Consumers weary of oat bran probably won't go back to bacon and eggs for breakfast, but they may be looking for alternatives now that a study has cast doubt on oat bran's cure-all image. The New England Journal of Medicine on Thursday published results of a study that said eating oat bran had no more effect than other grains on a person's cholesterol level. It said any beneficial effect appeared to come from cereals displacing fatty foods in the diet. 
Yesterday's High: 41 Yesterday's Low: 24 Nation's High: 86 (Miami, FL) Nation's Low: -16 (Gunnison, CO) 
Forecast: Partly sunny this morn­
ing, then increasing 
cloudiness by late after­
noon. Highs in the middle 
40s. Cloudy tonight with 
a 30 percent chance of 
showers. Lows in the 
middle 30s. Cloudy and 
cooler Thursday with a 40 
percent of light rain. 
Highs around 40 . 

©1990 Accu-Weather. Inc 
EZj 
I~
0 " 

FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
A Memorial Mass for Professor William Davisson will be held today at 5 p.m. at tlw l'asquerilla West Chapel. 
Any faculty or graduate student interested in judging for the Iceberg Debates should contact Matt Thiel at 239-7668 or in the Student Gow~rnment offices on tlw second floor of LaFortune. 
A meeting for all Iceberg Debate team captains will be held on Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in the llayes-llealy auditorium. The meeting is mandatory for captains and recommended for team members. 
Researchers are combing the lields and forests of Illinois in search of what owls spit up, but some state lawmakers in Springfield are gagging over the projected $180,000 cost of studying the birds' diets. The re­searchers involved say their work could provide valuable information on how changes in the environment affect animals. Owls spit up pellets of hair, bone and t1~eth ­indigestible leftovers from what they've eaten -at least once or twice a day. 
burg, South Africa. Coetsee was reacting to intense specu­lation that Mandela will be freed within wm~ks, but lw gave no hints about a date. 
The French celebrated Snoopy in Paris on Tuesday, saying that happiness is a warm puppy-evpn one that's 40 years old. The beguiling beagle who appears in Charles Schulz's comic strip "Peanuts" was honored with a blockbuster retrospective worthy of the World War I flying ace, bird-lover and faithful friend to that round­headed kid. Schulz, by the way, also was honored. liP was named Commander of Arts and Lettf~rs, one of France's highest awards for excellence in the arts. 

PO. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Tuesday's Staff  
Sports  News  Systems  
Greg Guffey  John O'Brien  Mark Sloan  
Chris cooney  Peter Loftus  Tim Quinn  
Production  Accent  Sports Wednesday  
Chris Labaree  Paige A. Smoron  Molly Mahoney  
Kristin Costello  Barbara Bryn  
Graphics  
Viewpoint  Ad Design  Bradford J. Boehm  
Lisa Eaton  Jeanne Naylor  
Janice O'Leary  Quinn S atepanhoodle  
Lisa Gunsorek  
Ryan Roberts  
Val Paletta  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) 1s published Monday lhrough Fnday except dunng exam and vaca11on per1ods The Observer IS a n•ember of the Associated Press All reproduCtion nghts are reserved 
INDIANA 

A radio station in Indianapolis will suspend broadcasting music by the heavy metal band Guns N' Hoses as a protest of the profanities uttered by members of the group during the American Music Awards. Guns N' Roses, which t.as a repu­tation for raunchy behavior, won two awards during the Monday night ceremony at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles. The band's music will not be aired for one week. 
Hoosiers who sell or transfer their homes would be required to install smoke detec­tors on each floor under a bill approved Tuesday by the Indiana Senate. Senate Bill 189, sponsored by Sen. Louis Mahern Jr., D-lndianapolis, ad­vanced to the House on a 42-6 vote. The measure imposes no liability or sanctions on those who vi­olate its requirements. "The most important thing in fighting fires and saving lives in fires is time," Mahern said. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for January 23, 1990 


0 .40 S&P Composite 331.61 0 1.23 Dow Jones Industrials 2615.32 {714.87 
Precious Metals Gold ..(} $2.90 to $408/ oz. 

Silver{} 6.5¢ to $5.315 I oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 

On January 24: e In 1848: .lames Marshall found gold in Sutter's Mill in California. 
e In 1888: Ernst lleinkel, the builder of tlw first rocket­powered aircraft. was born.. 
e In 1899: The rubber heel was patented by Humphrey 
O'Sullivan.  
e In 1935: The cans was sold.  first  beer in  
e In 1986: past Uranus.  Voyager  II  flew  


~------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Indiana House approves informed consent for abortions 
INDIANAPOLIS (AI'l -The abortion regulation bill pending before a woman who consented have to advise a woman seeking unconstitutional. "They don't Indiana House. after defeating in the Legislature and assign a to the procedure could undergo an abortion of the risks -in­go into•it lightly." a proposal to put off changing study committee to look at all an abortion. cluding infection, infertility and Rep. Mark Kruzan, D-Bloom­abortion laws until next year, abortion-related issues this The latter provision is identi­hemorrhaging -associated ington, argued the bill was un­approved a measure Tuesday summer. cal to the one approved by the with thfl operation. Villalpando necessary because State Board night to rPquire a woman to That abortion bill, II.B. 1034, full House in H.B. 1134, which claimed that too often a woman of Health regulations already give her informed consent to now is eligible for a final vote also would require a facility in doesn't understand the emo­require a woman to be in­the procedure and then wait 24 in the House as early as Thurs­which an abortion is performed tional and physical conse­formed in general terms of the hours beforP having an abor­day. That bill would ban the use to maintain at least $1 million quences of having an abortion. consequences of her choice to tion. of public facilities and employ­in general liability insurance. Opponents of the proposal havfl an abortion. 
Lawmakers voted 64-34 for ees for most abortions. Rep. Jesse Villalpando, a Grif­claimed it belittled women's I louse Bill 1134, the informed During the debate Tuesday, fith Democrat and co-sponsor ability to make wise choices. "I believe we should leave In­consent bill that now goes to II.B. 1034 was rewritten in part of H.B. 1134, said the measure diana law as restrictive as it is the Senate. so it would also ban an abor­sets a "policy that the woman "We are demeaning the deci­and not make it any more re­
Earlier. by a 70-27 margin, tion if a viability test showed facing a choice should make the sion lloosier women are mak­strictive," said Kruzan. 
representatives defeated a pro­the fetus could survive outside decision based on full informa­ing today," said Rep. Brad A coalition of 38 Republicansposal by Hep. James Davis, R­the womb and so it would im­tion and reflection." Bayliff, H-Kokomo, who also and 26 Democrats voted in fa­l'rankfort, to gut the major pose a 24-hour waiting period Under the bill, a doetor would maintained a waiting period is vor of H.B. 
Sophomore Espino granted Brother Lavelle Scholarship 
By MARIA MILANO Espino is the Right to Life News Writer representative for Holy Cross Hall and he would like to work 
The Brother John Lavelle more closely with the St. Joseph Scholarship Award was pre­County Hight to Life chapter. sented to Manuel Espino, a Espino stated about the fu­Notre Dame sophomore on ture, "I want to be a counselor Thursday, January 18. at the women's care center and 
The $250 scholarship has I want to talk to and help been awarded for the past two women who are considering years. abortion. Maybe even do side­
Espino has been involved in walk counseling one day." the South Bend chapter of "I am going to keep fighting Right to Life since his freshman this battle as long as I have to," 
year. Espino has volunteered Espino said.

'=Life 
as a counselor at women's care The Brother John Lavelle centers in South Bend. Award is named for a Holy 
"My interest in pro-life issues Cross Brother who died three is not due to religious reasons, years ago. He was active in the but rather it comes from expe­Right to Life Movement in rience," Espino said. South Bend. 
This experience includes The $250 scholarship is Marchers taking part in the March for Life mass on the Mall on South side of the White House Monday as Espino's adopted sister who given to a member of the Notre they start walking to the U.S. Capitol and the Supreme Court on the 17th anniversary of the high court's was almost aborted by a Dame/Saint Mary's community ruling on abortion. mother who did not want to who stands out in the pro-life have a child. movement. 
Dooley Award conferred posthumously to NO alumnus 
AP Photo 
By PATRICK HEALY 
News Writer 
Alan Sondej, a Notre Dame graduate who committed him­self to fighting world hunger, will posthumously receive the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion's Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award at their FP-bruary 2 board meeting. 
The Dooley Award is given annually to a Notre Dame graduate who has performed an outstanding humanitarian service. 
Sondej, a 1974 graduate, died in a fire rescue attempt two years ago. 
As a student, Sondej stood outside the South Dining hall evp,ry day for two years solicit­ing donations for a famine re­lief fund. 
According to Pete Pranica, assistant director for Alumni Clubs, Sondej would collect do­nations in a cut-off milk jug, repeating, "A penny buys three bowls of porridge, a dime buys thirty." 
Pranica said that Sondej ex­plained he was "not trying to guilt students into giving," but rather he "wanted students to experience the joy of giving." According to Pranica, Sondej collected over $25,000 in those two years. 

After graduating, Sundej worked for the Overseas Devel­opment Council, where he par­ticipated in relief efforts in other countries. He visited col­leges and universities regularly to organize students in solicit­ing donations. 
Sondej later moved to Wash­ington, D.C. for graduate study at the University of Maryland. He joined the Hyattsville Fire Department as a volunteer fire­fighter and was known for his search and rescue skills. 
He was injured in a rescue at­tempt on January 20, 1988, and died two months later. 
Sondej's father, Alfred, his sister, Hegina, and his brother, Alfred, Jr. will accept the award at the Alumni Associa­tion meeting. 
A presentation will be made during halftime of the men's basketball game versus Dayton by Thomas Hogan, president of the Alumni Association. Son­clefs brother will receive the award, which will be a replica of the statue in the grotto. 
The Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award is named for the 1948 Notre Dame alumnus who be­came famous for his work in South Asia with the poor. 
Brochures highlighting the lives of Sondej and Dooley will be given to everyone attending the game. 

At Michigan National Corporation, our goal is to be a world-class banking institution that provides the 
finest quality service in our industry. To realize our goal, we need people who are willing to accept the challenge of becoming the best in the business. We seek aggressive, intelligent, driven people who believe in our philosophy, and who are willing to make the sacrifices necessary to attain our goals. In return, you'll work in an exciting, entrepreneurial environment that gives you the freedom to be your best. 
If you are up to our challenge, we will be conducting campus interviews january 31st. Please contact your Placement Office for further details. 
Half OfThisYear's Medical School Class Got There With Our Help. 
Anempting to study for the Mar alone would be nearly impossible. Attempting to study without Stanley H. Kaplan would simply be a bad career move. 
Maybe it's our 50 years of experience. Our small classes. Or the advanced teaching methods we use in all our classes all across the country. 
Whatever it is, if medical school is your future, Stanley Kaplan can help you stan prncticing right now: 
liSTANLEY H. KAPlAN 
• £Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Glances CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
£.® 

MichiganNational 
Bank 
Equ;~l Opportunity Employer 



By JOE MOODY News Writer 
The newly-formed Club Coor­dination Council (C.C.C.) held its first meeting Tuesday. 
The C.C.C. will fall under the jurisdiction of Student Govern­ment. according to Torn Hask, club coordinator. 
Hask expects a constitutional amendment concerning the 
C.C.C. at the next Student Sen­ate meeting. 
The council met with Chris Donnelly,. editor-in-chief of The Observer, to discuss establish-
student at Cornell University. 



Shelter 
continued from page 1 
their feet. "We try to find out why they am homeless and then attempt to eradicat!~ the prob­lem." Oehrn said. 
The CentPr employs nineteen staff m<HnbPrs and has a volun­teer forre of about five hun­dn~d. During a typical day, 


Bomb 
continued from page 1 
was killed two days later by another exploding package, and similar mail bombs were de­fused at the II th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta, where Vance served. and at National Association for tlw Advance­
ment of ColorPd People head­quarters in .Jacksonville, Fla. 
FBI sources. who spoke on rondition of anonymity, con­firrnPd published reports that typewritten correspondence in O'FerrPII's court case appears to matrh typewritten corre­spondenrP allegedly sent by the mail bornlwr. 
Ardwr. asked about tlw typewritPr. said only that a nPws n~port this month nwn­tiorwd that agPnts arn looking for a typPwritPr usPd by tlw mail homlwr. 
"They wpr·p looking for a typewrit..r that WP may have sold," O'FPrrPII said Tw~sday as FBI agPnts wPighed tlw rP­sults of tlwir search of th<~ junk dPaler's wan~house and other family propPrty. 
"It's possibiP we eould have had tlw typPwritPr in tlw last two yPars." he told radio sta­tion WKMX in En!Prprise. "But we don't know what typewriter tlwy'rn talking about. You don't k<~Pp a r<~rorcl of ew~rything you S<~ll." 
"I don't know anything about any of it." he said. "I don't hav<~ anything to hi(ln. Wlwn it's all ov..r with. I'll be glad to g<~t with tlw mPdia and go into de­tails." 
Ill~ said tlw I-'IH asked him not to talk to tlw media "until tlwy gN what they want done." 
O'Fern~ll had sued Gulf Life lnsuntnce Co. of .Jacksonville, for firing him, challenging the company's rlaim that lw held li­n~nses with other insurance companies. O'F•~rrell also dairnnd Gulf Lif•~ owed him commissions. 
The lawsuit was disrniss1~d by a federal judge in Montgomery in .Jurw I<JHH. 

By giving up your lunch every Wednesday during the 
semester the WHC receives funds from University 
Food Services which they distribute to hunger relief 
organizations including the International Development 
EHchange, the Choi-Chol Foundation and Caritads 
Bangladesh. 
So Please, fight the bottle against hunger. Sign up for the Wednesday Lunch Fast in the dining halls today and tomorrow ond olso Friday, January 26, ot lunch-or... 
Call H2631 or H4229 onytime ond leoue o message to participate. 
Saint Mary's: I 
I SALE 
Its SYR time I Do your plants look brown 1 & droopy?
again... Give your date a I
1 Do you talk to them and
lasting memento 

1 they just lie there? 
from 

I 
Bring in your droopy,~.~ I brown ailing plant for a •••
S11~1 25°/o DISCOUNT
I
with this coupon On any one item in the
I receive 20% off I store. 
ing a column in Thn Observer to announce the various upcoming club events. 
Hask expressed that he was happy that The Observer has agreed to run tho column. 
The C.C.C. also determined that face-to-face meetings will be held with representatives of each club to allocate student fees aftnr budget rneomrnenda­tions are made. 
Hask said he is pleased with the direction of the group and feels it will play a solid role in the Notre Dame community. 



........... 
___ ._.._._ 

Czechs want U.S.-Soviet summit 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) -President Vadav Havel said Tuesday he would invite Presi­dents Bush and Mikhail Gor­bachev to hold a summit meet­ing in Prague. 
Havel told Parliament he would propose his capital for the U.S.-Soviet meeting during visits this year to Moscow and Washington. 
lie also proposed the word "socialist" be dropped from the official name of the Czechoslo­vak Socialist llepublic. 
Part of the session was taken up by IPgislators' d1~mands for withdrawal of Soviet soldiers statiorwd in Cwehoslovakia since 196H. wlwn a Warsaw Part invasion ended the "Prague Spring" rPforms. 
Legislator Mirh;wl Kocab said the agreement on "temporary deployment of So­viet troops on Czechoslovak tNritory ... is an obvious viola­tion of intPrnational law, espe­rially the U.N. Charter and the Warsaw TrPaty. ThP agrePmPnt should be declared null and void from the beginning." 
A joint commission discussed the matter Jan. 10 in Prague and indicated it would be set­tled next month. 
Since Czechoslovakia's whirlwind revolution, which took less than a month and led to a non-Communist govern­ment in December. officials have demanded the estimated 75,000 Soviet troops leave leave by the end of 1990. 
Ilavel, a dissident playwright often jailed before the revolu­tion, told legislators Tuesday that he "would like to present to Mr. Gorbaehev various im­portant and mutually intfwcon­nected proposals. including the offer to hold his future meeting with Mr. Bush in Prague." 
"Naturally. I will present the sanw proposal shortly after­ward to Mr. Bush during the big state visit to the United States," Havel said in his first major speech to Parliament since it elected him dent Dec. 29. 

Dates of the visit to Moscow have not been announced, but presidential spokesman Michael Zantovsky said it was sched­uled for "beginning of Febru­ary." He did not say when Havel would visit the United States. 
Bush and Gorbachev are ten­tatively scheduled to meet in June, in the United States. It was not clear whether Havel was suggesting that summit be moved to Prague. 
In Washington, Bush spokesman Roman Popadiuk said no official word of the in­vitation had arrived and "there are no plans for anything be­yond the June summit at this time." 
In suggesting the change in Czechoslovakia's official name, Havel said: "The word social­ism lost meaning in our linguis­tic context. The moral, political and economic crisis in our country is linguistically insepa­rable from this " 
pages 


The Observer/Tom Hassett 

Circus Lunch 
Students enjoy the delicious delights offered at the long-awaited Circus Lunch in South Dining Hall on Tuesday. 




THIS WEEK'S STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD EVENTS 
II HODS 1ERS II Tuesday thru Thursday in Carroll Au d. 9:00 and 11:15 $1 admission 
Reminder: "Neighboring Talents" tryouts coming in a few weeks-get your ideas together!! Any questions contact MJ Grant(SMC) or Char Sheridan(ND) Next movie: "When Harry met Sally" 
·-·-·-·-·-·-·-.-.-.-.-.....•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.•-.·-.·--·-.•-.•-.•-.•-. 
·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·,·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~
.... -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· .... -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· -· .......
...,. 
~-. 






:?: .3~~~~~~m~(5(~w~(~ww~@l0 t!@@l[f ~~:
... ~ ... 
••. 1'•. 

~~: (~@0@[})[f@]~~®[iQ ~?.
... ...
... ..,
.•. ... f~: ·~~[p~@[ffi~C? TIV®TI ®cs~®[})@Cf TIW~ ~~·
o 

... ...
••• I'•
... ... 
,... I'• 
~~: Application for Student Executive Committee ~~ 
... ... 
1'•. I'•
... ... 

1'•. I'• 
c~· Due Friday. ·January 26th 1990 !~ ~~: by 4:00pm to Stodent Government Secretary-Barb ~~ ~~: 2nd Floor LaFortune ~~ 
... ... 

1'•. I'•
... ... 
~-. I'•
... ... 
~-. I'•
... ... 
~~: MEMBERSHIP ~~ ~~· )unior -Co-chair !~ 

1'•. I'• 
~~· Sophomore -Co-chair ~; ~~: 3 )unior Reps ~: ~~: l Sophomore Reps ~~ ~~· 3 Frosh Reps !;
,... ...
.... ... 
,.~ ...;..~~~........ -.. -.. -.. "-i' ..........................................................................................................~ • 
....._.,..,._~'-• -· .: _: _:!!;.~._~._~..~-.~..~-.~-.~-.~-.~-.~-.~..._..._..~..~......~..~..~-.~-.~-.~-.~-.~..~-.~-.~-.~..._..~._~..~-.~-.~-.~--.. 
The Observer Wednesday, January 24, 1990
page 6 

Three administrators of ND Annual Fund promoted 

Special to The Observer 
Three administrators of the University of Notre Dame's An­nual Fund have been promoted. 
Ann Johnston and Carol Mc­Clory, assistant directors, have become associate directors of the Annual Fund. Michael Branch, program coordinator, has become an assistant dirnc­tor. 
Johnston, a 19H1 Notre Dame graduate, has directed the An­nual Fund's direct mail and corporate matching gift pro­gram since 1986. McClory. a 1986 Notre Dame graduate, has served on the University's dtwelopm.:nt staff sin1~e 19H7. 
As assistant director of the An­nual Fund. she has managed the University's growing phone solicitation program during Notre Dame's $417 million "Strategic Moment" fundraising campaign. Branch, a 19HH Notre Dame graduate, joined the development staff in Jan­uary. 19H9. As program coor­dinator. he assisted in the management of the phone solic­itation program and will con­tinue to do so in his present po­sition. 
Established in 1942, Notre Dame's Annual hmd is a yearly program soliciting unrestricted gifts to support the University's operating costs. 
Notre Dame Student Government needs volunteers to help compose new teacher course evaluation booklet. Good opportunity for student government experience while making a difference in the ND community. 
Call Glenn Abeln at #1521 for more Info. 
r  Reinforcements  
I  Soviet Troop reinforcements board  a transport aircraft Sunday at Stepanekert, the capitol of the  
Nagorno-Karabakh area of Azerbaijan.  en  route to the town of Gyandzh to  help quell the ethnic  
violence. The Azerbaijani parliament Monday called for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops within 48  
hours.  

The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street Mishawaka 



259-6322 
Hours: 7 30 a.m. -9:00 p.m. -7 days a week 
WASHEIR§ ONlY 85¢ 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash 
Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound 
Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up. wash. dry. fold. deliver SAME DAY SERVICE 

CELEBRATION 
~ 

RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! DAYTONA BEACH fromS129* 
THE REEF AND CAROUSEL HOTELS &KITCHENETTES • 7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND fromS129* 
SHERATON CONDO & HOTEL, GULF VIEW. LANDFALL TOWER, SAIDA CONDOS, HOLIDAY INN • 5 OR 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT from •101 * 
SHADOW RUN CONDOS OR OVERLOOK HOTEL • 2, 5 OR 7 NIGHTS WITH ALL LIFTS -PICNIC-RACE 

FORT LAUDERDALE fromS1J2* 
LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL • 7 NIGHTS 
I I 
2nd set ut rrints f~ll!
I 
I 
I I I 12x-$2.49 • 2 Set Of Prints From lSx _$2.99 Each Original Roll Of C-,41 




I All week! 
• 
Gloss Finish 24x -$4.99 • Regular Size Print 

• 
In Before 10:00 am.~ Back 36x-$7.49 Next Day 


photo/graphics 
of Edu.ciifional M~diii University of Notre D~rne Centar for. Continuing Education, Rm 13 Notre Dame, IN 46556 /219 o 239 • 7630 

I I I I I I I 
•I 
I
,.,,, 
I I I 
/'I 
I I I I I I I I 
.......~~~~~~21~~2!22~2UJ~~~~---··-~ 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND fromS127* 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND BEACH & TENNIS RESORT CONDOS • 7 NIGHTS 

CORPUS CHRISTI/MUSTANG ISLAND fromS99* 
PORT ROYAL OCEAN RESORT CONDOS • S OR 7 NIGHTS 

DON•T DELAY! 

CENTRAL SPRING BREAK~~~} INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 



1·800·321·5911 
7AM-7PM M·Th, 7AM-5PM Fri. 9AM-5PM Sat, Mountain Standard Time Reservations may be made by credit card 
.aJC[I][il 
24 HOUR FAX RESERVATIONS (303J 225·1514 
• Oependmg on break dates and length ot stay 

Wednesday, January 24, 1990 
Bush to recommend record drug spending 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­President Bush on Tuesday said a Democratic anti-crime bill is "a sheep in wolf's clothing" and promised he will recom­nwnd record spending on drug education and treatment. 
After a tour of a once drug infested street, Bush said that an anti-crime bill pending in the Senate under the sponsorship of Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del., is merely a "Trojan Horse." 
"It looks like a real crime bill. Sounds like a real crime bill. 
But  in  actuality  it  will  be  
tough1~r  on  law  enforcement  
than  on  criminals,"  he told  a  

gathering of Kansas City law enforcement officials. "America 1wnds a crime bill with teeth, but this is a sheep in wolf's clothing." 
Bidnn said in Washington that the primary difference be­tween the versions of the bill is over how much resources should be committed. 
"The president called my proposal 'a Trojan horse standing at the gates of Congress,"' Biden said in a re­lease. "Well. the Trojan horse was filled with soldiers who won their war, and my crime bill is loaded with money for more police and drug agents ­soldiers we need to fight the war on crime today." 
The White House contends Biden's bill falls short as it per­tains to exclusionary rules of evidence, habeas corpus and the death penalty. 
Biden's provisions in those areas. Bush said, "will only en­trench and extend the legal loopholes and red tape that disrupt law enforcement and have angered the American people for far too long." 
Bush toured a street where three so-called crack houses were boarded up, and visited with residents who had helped organize the neighborhood against crime. 
Several members from a committee called Black Men Together demonstrated for the president how they discourage drug users by chanting: "Hey Pusher, hey you. Black men out here are watching you," and "You better run dope pusher, better run." 


Happy 20th Birthday to the Best Sister anyone could ask for. BE SAFE! 
I'm Really proud to be your brother! 
Love Always, 
Chuckie 


' 
If you've set your sights on law school, there's no better LSAT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan 
Our LSAT prep will open you eyes with score-raising strategies and 
techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical 
Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 
Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material is based on the "new" LSAT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help as needed in our TEST-N-TAPE* lab, open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. 
'And watch the scales tip in your favor. 
i STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
cLTake Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 

The Observer page 7 

The Observer!Tom Hassen 

An endangered species 
Sean Maroney, a senio~ mat~rials science and engineering major, works on an electron microscope. His department w1ll be abolished 1n June of this year. 
One injured as two Blue Angels collide 
EL CENTRO, Calif. (AP) ­Two Navy Blue Angels jets col­lided over the Superstition Mountains during a training exercise Tuesday, causing one of the planes to crash, authori­ties said. 
The pilot of the F-A18 ejected safely before the aircraft went into the mountains between 11 
a.m. and noon about 20 miles northwest of this Southern California city, said El Centro Naval Air Facilitv spokesman. 
The Navy precision flying team uses the desert base as a winter training center to prac­tice the daredevil .routines it performs at air shows throughout the country. 
The planes involved in the col­lision were. part of a four-air-


Western Caribbean Cruise ~ Spring Break '90 ~ March 11-16 ~ ©~:;;;~©: ~ 
Miami ~ Key West ~ Playa del Carmen ~ Cozumel ~ 
~ 

$699 per person includes: 
~ 

-round trip airfare -all meals aboard the ship ~ -live entertainment ~ -lots of shipboard activities 
~ 

-duty-free sbopping 
~ ********** ~ Sign up at the secretary's desk on the 2nd ~ floor of La Fortune. ~ ~ 
Payments due in full by February 15. 
~ ~ 
1

craft diamond formation at the 
1 time of the accident, Ray said. 
1 

Three of the aircraft, including 1 the other one involved in the 1 
~

collision, returned safely to the base. 
The downed plane's pilot, tentatively identified as Marine Capt. Chase Moseley, was flown by helicopter to the El Centro Regional Medical Center. 


Soviet 
continued from page 1 just that if Soviet troops are 
not pulled out soon. 
In Washington, the Bush ad­ministration voiced support Tuesday for the territorial in­tegrity of the Soviet Union, but it called for dialogue between Moscow and Azerbaijan, saying peaceful changes "are a matter for the parties affected to re­solve." 
Baku residents prevented two ships carrying the families of 
soldiers stationed in the area from leaving the port because they thought the Soviets were trying to smuggle out bodies of those killed in the Soviet assault on Baku, a Soviet spokesman said Tuesday. 
They apparently thought au­thorities wanted to claim casu­alties were lower than in reality, Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov. 
"Nothing was found in the holds," Gerasimov told a Moscow briefing. 

Shenk 
continued from page 1 
its internal problems. "In Nicaragua right now, there is an electoral process that has the whole country excited," but according to Shenk, U.S. interference is hindering the country's attempt. 
The majority of Nicaraguans do not want U.S. aid and U.S. polls suggest that a majority of Americans are not in favor of continuing aid to the Contras, Shenk said. "The Congress 
doesn't reflect the popular voice. They are getting away with murder." 
Speaking for Witness for Peace, Shenk said, "Our greatest hope is that the Nicaraguan people will be able to have their say on February 25 (election day)." 
The presentation also in­
cluded a video of interviews with Nicaraguan civilians. Many of those interviewed 
expressed their desire  to  see  
the  end  of u.-s:  aid  to  the  
Contras.  



Viewpoint 
Wednesday, January 24, 1990
page 8 

The .Obset:Ver-= 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a R1ch Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager .Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor Er~c Ba1ley OTS Director .. Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnsllne Gill Controller Anne Lindner 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Umversl· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the adminiStration of e1ther 1nSt1tut10n The news IS reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opm1on of the majority of the follow1ng Ed,tor-1n-Ch1ef. Managmg Ed1tor. Executive News Ed1for. V1ewpo1nt Editor, Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor Photo Ed1tor. Sa1nt Mary's Ed1tor. Commentaries. letters. and the Jns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty and the free express1on of vary1ng opinions on campus. through letters. 1s encouraged 
@ 
Q 


LETTERS 


Events at Medjugorje challenge us to respond 
Dear Editor: tions lind themselves at a loss Heart, she will by converted, from visionary Maria Pavlovic. Msgr. Paul llniliea, S.J., even 
When Pope John Paul II was l'or words. and the world will have some After having phom~d Medjugorje quotes John Paul II. "If I shot on May 13, 19H1 (the an­In her apparitions at Fatima, time of peace." This consecra-himself, he exclaimed, ac-weren't a Pope I'd be in Mndju­niversary of Mary's lirst ap­on July 13,1917, four months tion was carried out by Pope cording to Alfred Kingon, the gorje already"), it seems foolish parition at Fatima), he prayed before the birth of Marxist John Paul II on March 25, American Ambassador to Eu-to wait before responding to fervently that Our Lady would Communism in Russia, the 1984. rope, "Now I am going to this Our Lady's call. On November come to the earth. Several Mother of Christ 'warned that if In speaking about these in-meeting with Gorbaehnv with a 21, 1987 apparitions that be­weeks later she started appear­her requests for conversion credible times and the extraor-new spirit!" On Dee. 8, the gan in Venezuela on March 25, ing and has been eoming since, were ignored. Hussia would dinary intervention of her Im-Feast of the Immaculatn Con-1976 were approvnd by tlw daily, to several children in spread her errors throughout maculate Heart, Our Lady said, ception, Beagan and Gorbaehnv Church with innocuous effect to Medjugorje, Yugoslavia in what the world r.ausing grnat suffer­on July 3. 1987, through Father signed a peace accord. the mst of tlw world which, for have bm:omn tlw most nxtraor­ing, wars, persecution of thn Gobbi and the Marian Movo-Our Lady's 1989 Christmas tlw most part, hasn't 1wnn be!'n dinary apparitions in the his­Church, and the annihilation of ment of Priests (an organiza-message to us from M1~djugorje informnd of them. tory of the Church. But our re­nations. Thn apparitions were tion whose members include includes a warning: "Dnar chil-This Mother's Day weekend, sponsl~ is erueial. so that Our not approved by the Church over :{00 bishops and cardinals, dren... l am interceding for you (May 12-13, 1990) the Univnr­Lord's grace to us is not in until 1930. Jesus wept over 75,000 priests and 15 million before God that he give you the sity of Notn• Damn will ag<iin vain. Jerusalr~m·s failure to reeognizn laity), "These times are closer gift of conversion of heart. For host tlw National Conf'en~nre 
The world is in a quake of its visitation, and he must have than you think. Already during years I am calling you ... hut you on MPdjugorje. immense magnitude, and the shed tears over the 20th een­this Marian Year, certain great are so cold! Therefore. little after shocks resound one after tury. Tlw statistics are stagger­events will take place, concern-childrnn, I ask you to accept Join us to !Parn how to bPttPr anollwr. Solidarity has taken ing. In Hussia alonn, from Oc­ing what I pn~dicted at Fatima and livn the messages with seri­respond to Our Lady's eall. Slw power in Poland. Both the Ber­tober, 1917 through 1959, and have told, under secrec.y, to ousness so that your soul will has told us that slw ran do lin Wall and the grim power 66,000,000 people perished be­the children to whom I am ap-not bP sad when I will no longer nothing without us: "You haVI' that eweted it have eome tum­cause Our Lady's words were pearing at Medjurgorje." be with you and when I will no always prayed that I not aban­bling down. llungary, East ignowd. Five months later thn lnadPr longer lead you ... " don you. Now I ask ol' you, in Germany, Czechoslavakia. Bul­At Fatima Our Lady also of the Soviet Union, Mikail With much of the hinrarehy of turn, not to abandon nw!" garia and Hornania have ousted made a promise: "Eventually, Gorbaehev, met with thn Presi-the Catholic Church giving pPr-/Jenis Nolan their Communist hard-line gov­my Immaculate Heart will tri­dent of the United States, sonal testimony to the authen­Director of Queen of Peace nrnments. Experts in politieal umph. The Pope will consecrate Honald Heagan. Just before the ticity of the apparition, (an Ministries sdene1~ and international rela-Hussia to my Immaculate meeting Heagan read a message Auxiliary Bishop of Home, Jan. 9, 1990 
So~ial Concerns Festival provides students with opportunity to care 
Dear hdllor. 

Do you care that there are student is aware of at least groups in which people work intriguing and exciting nxpPri-always wanted to sign up for. over forty groups and activities one, if not several, groups and for a cause they feel strongly encns. The Sodal Concerns Fes-The Festival is also for thos1• of to become involved in at the activities at the CSC. You hear abo_ut (and I_ know that any tival offers you thn opportunity you who would like to do sonw-Center for Social Concerns? Do about students working on the Ethics or Philosophy of Law to h1~ar participants deseribe thing n~lated to tlw CSC but arn you care enough to learn about houses of the destitute Ap-student is outraged about capi-their experiencns and their in-not sure what. 1 know tlwn~ is a group suited to your inter-palachian people, or you hear tal punishment, war, diserimi-volvement in groups as yet un-an activity that will intl~rest ests? Does your involvement in about students visiting the in-nation, abuse of the environ-known to you. nearly everyone and fit into the CSC in the past make you ner city for their 48-hour Ur-ment, and any other injustices As each semester slips by, I even the fullest of schedules. want more? I'm sure that some ban Plunge. You see the young that occur in the world). hear an endless number of re-You ean take a trip to Ap­of you have already sarcasti-children looking nervous but There are groups at the CSC grets from people who wish palac.hia or Washington over eally answered "no" to these excited about their lirst trip to to fight almost any injustice they had become involved in an spring break. The fnstival is on questions, but I know you don't the dining hall with their "big you can thi_nk of. Did you know activity at the Center for Soda) "l"h d J 25 t th ("S("
urs ay, . an. a e " .. 

n~ally mean it. brother" or "big sister." that there IS an Amnesty Inter-Concerns. But one semester This is finally your chance to 
I know because 150 students You also hear about the phys-national group you can join flows into the next and sud-prove to yourself that you really participate in the groups and ically, mentally and sexually which works to end capital denly the opportunity to b1~eome do care. activities every year, and most abused teenagers whom Notre punishment? Working at the involved has vanished. 
)

actually enjoy their participa-Dame juniors meet at the run-CSC for the past two and a half The upcoming festival gives 
,<;ara h John son 

tion in these groups. I'm also away shelter. You hear about years has allowed me to hea~ you a chance to finally get in­
1/oward //all

certain that every Notre Dame the numerous social action about many of these students volved in that activity you have 
January 25, 1990 

QUOTE OF THE DAYDOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
MOI?NIN6, CAMPf:I?S. MMVM­
THANK5, MMI<.
OlJ5 M4RI<. ~11/ITH AN 
IT5 6/l.tf.AT 7D
t:MER66NCY BIJITOI ~ "UI?BilN 
Be INA RJt,J..Y
Ht»>D OYrlPANtON:FeATU~N6 
HlfA7EI?8U!LPIN6-' 

'The road to Hell is paved with good intentions.' 
OIJR OUJ f14L.. EI.MONT.' 
Karl Marx 



Accent
Wednesday, January 24, 1990 page 9 
Superb performances in Uhry's "Driving Miss Daisy" 

DAN RUSSELL ceptance of certain minorities is accent writer a scene in which two policemen search Miss Daisy's car and re­
As students, we are faced quest her registration, suspect­with the opportunity to learn a ing that Hoke has stolen the great many things. But unless car simply because he is black. we've been fortunate enough to After learning of the true situa­develop a close relationship tion and watching Hoke and with our grandparents or have Miss Daisy drive away, one of ever volunteered at a local the police officer proclaims to nursing home, we probably the other "Can You believe it? have not had the opportunity to An old Black and a Jew ride'n learn about the world of the together in the same car, what elderly. In "Driving Miss a pathetic sight!" Daisy", writer Alfred Uhry puts lnterluded with the central re­his Pulitzer Prize winning play lationship of Hoke and Miss to the screen. Through a simple Daisy are the caring yet busi­story, it manages to teach the nesslike manner with which audience a lot more about a Boolie treats his mother topic most know little about. throughout the entire span of 
The film begins with Miss the movie, the dependence of Daisy Werthan (Jessica Tandy), Daisy upon her longtime a highly independent 72 year­housekeeper !della (Esther old Southern Jewish matron, Holle), only fully realized after crashing her new car into her !della's death, and, to a lesser neighbor's garden. Without her extent, the marriage of the in­consent, Miss Daisy's son creasingly successful Boolie Boolie (Dan Aykroyd) decides and his social-climbing wife that it is time for her long driv­Florine (Patti LuPone). ing career to be over, and he The set of "Driving Miss hires Mr. Hoke Colburn Daisy" was carefully chosen in (Morgan Freeman), a very pa­one of Atlanta's few preserved tient black widower, to be his neighborhoods from the 1950's, mother's new chauffeur. Thus and its screenplay is eloquently begins the central theme of the put together, never surrender­film, the development of a rela­ing the viewer's interest. How­tionship between two very dis­ever, the keys to this movie's similar people--a poor black success are the truly brilliant man and a rich, white, JPwish performances turned in by woman who spend the next Morgan Freeman and Jessica twenty-five years overcoming Tandy. Not since the Oscar their differences and building award winning and unforget­on their similarities to become table pprformances by Henry best friends. Fonda and Katherine Hepburn 
Adding to "Driving Miss in "On Golden Pond" has the Daisy" is that the movie is set screen been graced by such a in the rich and divided culture poignant and sensitive por­of the south during the 1950's trayal of two elderly people and and 1960's, and it reflects some the world around them. 
-

of the most dynamic social "Driving Miss Daisy" is a changes that occurred in wonderfully written and bril­United.States history. Such liantly executed film that will events include the actual bomb­leave you simply feeling good ing of the Temple, Atlanta's about how beautiful a relation­oldest Jewish congregation, and ship between two people can be a ceremony honoring Dr. --the type of relationship we Martin Luther King, Jr. in are all capable of achieving 1958. But perhaps displaying with others very different from most vividly the reluctant ac-oursPlves. 
Dublin: A new city, raw music, and a hole-in-the-wall pub 
SCOTT BRUTOCAO hour set in a hole-in-the-wall overseas writer annex to a pub? We might have thought that 
In a big city, to find fresh and these four youths of stock roles lively music played with unbri­(a singer, a bassist, a lead gui­dled vigor, sometimes it is nec­tarist, and a drummer) would essary to penetrate some of the be no more than a trashy act to more obscure areas on the fill a void in the live music map. In Dublin, this statement scheduled for that evening. can hold true. After all, these lads were prob­
We were three foreigners in ably not much older than our­Dublin on a Friday night, sur­selves, appearing in their late veying the pubs and heading for teens or early twenties. no particular destination. The The band, Hidden Faces, pro­nipping chill of the winds was vided us with honest and enthu­obliging us to find a suitable siastic music, and gave us an pub to hide our heads, and the authentic look at the Irish un­Guinness in our stomachs was derground music scene. urging us in the same direction. At its fullest, the room num­We were on the Notre Dame bered no more than 50, London Program's second cramped with chairs and tables travel break, having just ar­everywhere and choked with rived that evening by airplane smoke from the all too preva­from Heathrow Airport. lent cigarette in Ireland. Still, 
Walking along the street we the clutter did not hold back soon heard music, live music the energy coming from the 

coming from somewhere in the general direction of a pub. We let our ears lead us to an un­marked entry right next to the White Horse Tavern. just south of the River Liffey in the heart of Dublin. 
Might as well check it out, we thought, for how many times will we have the opportunity to see an unestablished band thrash its way through a three-stage, energy supplied by audi­ence-pumping, stage-shaking music. 
Hidden Faces was a band that still had the vitality and playfulness of youth. Its audi­ence knew the words to most of the songs (all written them­selves), and outside viewers like ourselves could definitely dis­cern a community atmosphere at the White Horse that night. 

come with the charge of music running through them. 
There was also the element of fun, in that at the end of the concert the players traded in­struments and got a susceptible member of the crowd to sing along to a completely appalling version of "Paradise City." 
After the session, we were told that Hidden Faces was label, and that they were in Dublin for only a little while. Our source of information was, of course, the group's manager, but what of that? The odds of this band "making it" are small, or at least the numbers are against it, but that is not the point. The point is that Hidden Faces had the type of unmitigated energy and inno­cent appeal that made a Friday 
It wasn't elaborate lighting or a fancy stage set that made the concert worthwhile, and that was the beauty of it. The source was raw music, the one­on-one interplay between per­former and audience, which made it memorable. And that's something that can extend out­side the borders of Dublin or Ireland. 

Sports Wednesday
page 10 January 24, 1990 
BASKETBALL TOP 25 POLLS 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press college basketball poll, with first-place votes in parentheses. records through Jan. 2t total points based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16-15­14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last week's ranking: 
Record PtsPvs 1. Missouri (56) 17-1 1,562 4 2. Kansas (4) 19-1 1,481 1 3. Georgetown (3) 14-1 1,444 2 4. Louisville 14-2 1.317 10 5. UNLV 12-3 1,162 9 6. Arkansas 14-2 1,145 12 7. Michigan 13-3 1.129 6 a. Duke 13-3 994 8 9. Oklahoma 12-2 963 3 
10. Illinois 13-3 858 7 11. Syracuse 12-3 820 5 12. Indiana 13-2 808 14 13. Georgia Tech 12-2 724 11 (tie) Purdue 13-2 724 24 15. St. John's 16-3 720 15 16. LSU 12-3 712 13 17. Oregon St. 14-2 542 18 18. LaSalle 12-1 537 17 19. Arizona 11-3 519 23 20. Connecticut 15-3 462 21. Minnesota 12-3 367 22 22. Loyola Marym·nt 13-3 338 21 23. UCLA 12-3 337 16 24. Alabama 13-4 217 25 25. Xavier, Ohio 13-2 134 20 
Other receiving votes: North Carolina 132, N. Carolina St. 98, New Mexico St. 64, Michigan St. 62, Colorado St. 19, Providence 16, SW Louisiana 14, Texas 11, Stanford 9, Clemson 7, Idaho 7, E. Tennessee St. 4, Ala.-Birmingham 3, Louisiana Tech 3, Memphis St. 3, Maryland 2, Hawaii 1, Holy Cross 1. Iowa 1 , Massachusetts 1, Virginia 1. 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division 
W L T Pts GF GA NY Islanders 23 21 4 50 175 172 New Jersey 22 21 4 48 187 186 Pittsburgh 21 21 4 46 191 198 NY Rangers 18 21 9 45 152 161 Washington 20 24 4 44 167 176 Philadelphia 18 23 7 43 171 162 Adams Division Boston 27 16 5 59 172 141 Buffalo 25 16 6 56 162 150 Montreal 24 19 6 54 159 145 Hartford 21 21 5 47 161 164 Quebec 9 31 6 24 148 216 
OFFENSE GAMES(W-L) FIRST DOWNS Rushing Passing Penalty YDSGAINED AvgperGame RUSHING Avg per Game Rushes Yards per rush PASSING Avg per Game Passes Alt. Completed Pet Completed Yards Gained Sacked Yards Lost Had Intercept Yards Opp Ret Opp TDs on lnt PUNTS 
Avg Yards PUNT RETURNS Avg Return Ret forTD KICKOFF RET Avg Return Ret forTD PENALTIES Yds penalized FUMBLES BY Fumbles Lost Opp Fumbles Opp Fum Lost 

-
The Top Twenty Five women's basketball teams, with first-place votes of 60 women's coaches in parentheses, Ictal points based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19­18-17-16-15-14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5­4-3-2-1, season records through Jan. 21, points and last week's ranking as compiled 
by Mel Greenberg  of The  Philadelphia  
Inquirer:  
Record  Pts Pvs  
1.La.Tech(53)  14-0  1.613 1  
2.Stanford(12)  15-0  1,572 2  
3. Tennessee  13-3  1 ,486 3  
4.Nev.-LasVegas  16-1  1,424 4  
5. Texas  11-3  1,292 6  
6. Long Beach St.  11-3  1 ,265 8  
7. Georgia  14-2  1,230 5  
8. Washington  14-2  1,125 7  
9. Steph. F. Austin  13-1  1,1 04 11  
10.Purdue  12-3  t,019 7  
11.N.CarolinaSt.  12-4  919 12  
12. Virgima  15-3  915 9  
13. Iowa  11-4  885 13  
14. Auburn  15-4  826 14  
15. South Carolina  10-3  705 18  
16. Louisiana St.  12-3  540 16  
17. Hawaii  13-2  518 19  
18. Penn St.  12-2  432 21  
19. S. Mississippi  13-2  400 20  

20. Northwestern 13-1 360 23 
21. Tennessee Tech 11-3 308 18 
22. St. Joseph's 10-3 280 22 
23. Maryland 10-7 185 15 
24. N. Illinois 13-2 139 
25. Old Dominion 11-6 84 24 
Others receiving votes: Mississippi 7~. Kentucky 58, Kansas 40, Providence 40, Vanderbilt 39, Connecticut 34, Arkansas 27, Kansas St. 27, Clemson 24, Duke 18, Montana 15, Miami-Fia. 14, Oregon 9, W. Kentucky 9, DePaul 8, Ohio St. 8, Oklahoma St. 8, Toledo 8, Missouri 6, San Francisco 6, Fresno St. 5, Florida St. 4, Illinois St. 3, Richmond 3, Rutgers 3, Utah 3, Wake Forest 3, California 2. 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division 
W L T Pts GF GA Chicago 27 17 4 58 197 176 Toronto 25 22 1 51 212 214 Minnesota 22 24 3 47 164 179 St. Louis 20 21 6 46 165 161 Detro•! 16 25 6 38 165 185 
Smythe Division Edmonton 24 15 9 57 187 156 
Calgary 22 15 Winnipeg 2220 Los Angeles 21 21 Vancouver 14 27 
SUPER BOWL TEAM COMPARISONS 
NFL Playoff Statistical Comparison POSS.TIME By The Associated Press TOUCHDOWNS 13 57 202 167 5 49 165 174 5 47 209 195 8 36 144 177 
Den  SF  Rushing  
2-0  2-0  Passing  
51  41  Returns  
22  14  EXTRA POINTS  
27  23  FGFGA  
2  4  POINTS SCORED  
846  861  DEFENSE  
423.0  430.5  PTSALLOWED  
342  258  OPP FIRST DNS  
171.0  129.0  Rushing  
77  70  Passing  
4.4  3.7  Penalty  
504  603  OPP YDS GAINED  
252.0  301.5  Avg per Game  
56  56  OPPRUSH  
44  32  Avg per Game  
78.6  57.1  Rushes  
509  624  Yards per Rush  
1  2  OPPPASS  
5  21  Avg per Game  
0  1  Passes Alt.  
0  26  Completed  
0  0  Pet completed  
6  9  Sacked  
30.8  42.4  Yards Lost  
3  5  INTERCEPTED BY  
2.7  R4  Yards Returned  
0  0  RetforTD  
6  5  OPPPUNTRET  
19.8  23.8  Avg return  
0  0  OPPKORET  
12  3  Avg return  
100  24  OPP TOUCHDOWNS  
4  3  Rushing  
3  2  Passing  
2  5  Returns  
1  2  


34:14 31:20 9 7 2 3 6 4 1 0 8 7 3-6 4-5 71 61 
16 44 34 33 7 10 26 23 1 0 541 660 270.5 330.0 112 241 56.0 120.5 31 46 3.6 5.2 429 419 214.5 209.5 90 73 47 38 52.2 52.1 5 4 50 20 7 3 183 14 1 0 3 1 9.3 7.0 13 9 21.2 18.1 1 5 1 2 2 3 0 0 
SUPERDOME STATISTICS 
• ali: .:.• 
NBA STANDINGS 
/ 
AP G I C tl n G 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Home games in all CAPS Wednesday Men's basketball vs. WICHITA 
STATE, 7:30p.m. Women's and men's swimming vs. UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS­CHICAGO, 5 p.m. Thursday Women's basketball at Xavier, 5:30 p.m. Friday Hockey vs. ARMY, 7:30p.m. Saturday Hockey vs. ARMY, 7:30p.m. Women's basketball vs. DEPAUL, 2p.m. Men's basketball vs. MIAMI, 1 :30 
p.m. Wrestling at National Catholic Tournament 
Women's and men's swimming vs. ST. BONAVENTURE, 2 p.m. 
Sunday Women's and men's swimming vs. WESTERN ONT ARlO, 1 p.m. 
Monday Women's basketball vs. EVANSVILLE, 7:30p.m. 
Jan.30 Men's basketball vs. DAYTON, 7:30 
• 
Collegiate Fencing Open 
Women's fencing (6-0) Notre Dame 11 , Columbia 5 Notre Dame won the championship at the 1990 USFA Collegiate Fencing Open 
Men's tennis (1·1) American Airlines Invitational results: Georgia 6, Notre Dame 3 Notre Dame 6, SMU 3 


Atlantic Division 
New York Boston Philadelphia Washington New Jersey Miami Central Division Chicago Detroit Milwaukee Indiana Atlanta Cleveland Orlando 
Midwest Division 
San Antonio Utah Denver Dallas Houston Charlotte Minnesota Pacific Division 
L.A. 
Lakers Portland Phoenix Seattle 

L.A. 
Clippers Golden State Sacramento Wednesday's Games 



EASTERN CONFERENCE  
w  l  Pet  GB  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
26  13  .667  lost3  17-1  9-12  15-7  
23  15  .605  21/2  Lost 1  13-7  10-8  15-10  
22  16  .579  3 1/2  Won4  14-3  8-13  18-9  
14  26  .350  121/2  lost6  10-10  4-16  8-17  
12  27  .308  14  lost2  8-11  4-16  10-16  
9  32  .220  18  Lost 2  4-15  5-17  6-19  
26  13  .667  Won3  16-1  10-12  12-9  
26  14  .650  1/2  lost 1  17-3  9-11  17-8  
23  16  .590  3  Won4  15-5  8-11  13-11  
22  17  .564  4  lost2  15-3  7-14  14-8  
18  18  .500  61/2  lost 6  12-6  6-12  12-13  
16  21  .432  9  lost 3  11-8  5-13  11-12  
11  28  .282  15  Lost 1  8-11  3-17  6-18  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
w  l  Pet  GB  Streak  Home  Away  Conf  
26  11  .703  Won 1  17-1  9-10  16-4  
26  11  .703  Won6  17-3  9-8  17-5  
23  18  .561  5  Lost 2  15-4  8-14  14-15  
19  20  .487  8  Won2  13-8  6-12  12-17  
19  20  .487  8  Won3  15-3  4-17  12-14  
8  29  .216  18  Lost 2  7-11  1-18  5-19  
7  30  .189  19  lost 6  5-13  2-17  3-18  
28  9  .757  Won 1  18-1  10-8  19-4  
27  11  .711  11/2  Won3  18-2  9-9  18-7  
22  14  .611  51/2  Won 8  16-5  6-9  17-9  
18  19  .486  10  Lost 3  16-4  2-15  10-11  
18  20  .474  10 1/2  Lost 1  13-6  5-14  10-13  
17  21  .447  111/2  Won 1  14-5  3-16  11-13  
10  27  .270  18  Won 1  9-13  1-14  5-20  
Cleveland at Atlanta, 7:30p.m.  

Miami at Boston, 7:30p.m. Orlando at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m.  Los Angeles Lakers at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Los Angeles Clippers at San Antonio, 8:30p.m.  
SCOREBOARD  
Women's basketball (9·5) Notre Dame 85, Loyola 72 Notre Dame 81, Marquette 64 Men's basketball (8-6) Notre Dame 74, Rutgers 69 LSU 87, Notre Dame 64 Wrestling (3-5) Notre Dame 25, Missouri 15 Nebraska 30, Notre Dame 8 Women's swimming (74) Notre Dame 166, N. Illinois 12B  Notre Dame 149, Cleveland State 85 Men's swimming Notre Dame 151.5, N. Illinois 148.5 Notre Dame 143, Cleveland State 92 Men's fencing (9-0) Notre Dame 17, Duke 10 Notre Dame 14, Columbia 13 Notre Dame captured the championship at the 1990 USFA  

SPRING BREAK '90 
Happy Birthday!! 


ACAPULCO 
We just 

couldn't pass up a 

$499. 
8 Days/7 Nights Air & Hotel PLUS, PLUS •.• from Chicago 
chance to 
ONLY 20 MORE SEATS LEFT!!! 
embarrass
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: BOB AT 1-800-328-6028 
you!! 


love, margaret, sue, 
colleen, kara & jackie
CALL TODAY!! 
Hey Chrissy-Are you still freefallin'? 
~---~~-----~----------------------------~--~---------­
LendI downs Soviet teenager, advances to semifinals 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -Defending champion Ivan Lend! and two-time former champion Stefan Edberg over­came the heat, wild winds and eager, young opponents to reach the semifinals Wednesday in the Australian Open. 
Lend!, his legionnaire's hat flapping and his groundstrokes cutting through winds that knocked over. table umbrellas, beat Andrei Cherkasov 6-3, 6-2, 6-3 on the partially enclosed stadium center court. 
"The wind was a hot wind," Lend! said. "It was pretty bad. It's not a nice way to play. I didn't want to have to be out there for five sets." 
Cherkasov served nine dou­ble-faults as he had even more trouble with the weather. 
"The wind made it tough," Cherkasav said. 
Edberg, the only hatless player of the day, had to cope with even crazier winds on Court One and a more difficult challenger in American serve­and-volleyer David Wheaton. 
The third-seeded Edberg, who warmed up for the match by playing nearly four hours in 140-degree courtside heat Tuesday, beat Wheaton 7-5, 7-6 (7-4), 3-6, 6-2. 
The temperature on the rub­ber-bottomed hard courts dropped to a relatively balmy 115 degrees on Wednesday, but the dry, hot winds played havoc with baseline shots. 
Wheaton, 20, of Lake Minnetonka, Minn., stayed even with Edberg until being broken for the first time in the 11th game of the first set on a back­hand that drifted long and wide in the breeze. 
Edberg, pumping his fist after the break in what was for him a big demonstration of emotion, served out the set, then won the first four games of the second set. 
Wheaton recovered, attacking 
the net more aggressively and serving better, and took the 

next five games. At 6-5, he had 
two chances to break Edberg 
and take the set after ripping a 
cross-court forehand winner to make it 15-40. But Edberg won four straight points to hold. 
Edberg won the tiebreaker by taking four of th«;l last five points, and pumped his fist a couple of more times. 
Wheaton's power-game car­ried him through the third set, but he succumbed to the stead­ier play of Edberg in the fourth. 
Mats Wilander, a three-time Australian Open champion, also stepped onto the sizzling, wind­blown center court, hoping to move closer to another title. But he had the toughest chal­lenge of the former champions as he faced No. 2 Boris Becker, hungry for his first title here. 
The three quarterfinal matches offered a view of some of the dominant players of the 1980s and perhaps the key players of the 1990s, the past 
clashing with the future in the 
first Grand Slam tournament of 
the decade. 
Lend!, the No. 1-ranked 
player, was the oldest in the 
group at 29 and faced the 
youngest, Cherkasov, a 19­
year-old Soviet baseliner born 
on the fourth of July. 
Cherkasov, playing in his first Grand Slam quarterfinal, gave Lend! a tough time before los­ing 6-4, 6-4 on clay in Hamburg, West Germany, last year. 
"It was a very good match for me," Cherkasov said of their last meeting. "I think it was the best in my career." 
Edberg, the 1985 and 1987 Australian champion who is now ranked No. 3 in the world, took on a stranger in the 20­year-old Wheaton. 
Edberg was the only quarter­finalist who didn't drop a set in his first four matches. Wheaton made it to the quarters by beating No. 5 Aaron Krickstein 7-6, 6-4, 6-3. 
Wheaton may have been a lit­tle lucky to get so far -with Krickstein slowed by a pulled groin and third-round opponent Mark Woodforde retiring in the second set with ·a sprained ankle -but is widely regarded as one of the top young players. 
The 25-year-old Wilander, winner of the Australian Open in 1983, 1984 and 1988, has been struggling the past year. He faced the toughest of the young players, the 22-year-old, second-ranked Becker, winner of three Wimbledon titles and the last year's U.S. Open. 
Becker won six of their previ­ous eight matches, losing only on the clay at the French Open. In their last meeting, in the Davis Cup final in December, Becker trounced Wilander 6-2, 6-0, 6-2. 
The Observer accepts ctassifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Word Processing Can return on disk 
Pick up and delivery 
271-9114 
BE YOUR OWN BOSS! Distributorships, Dealerships. Money making opportunities. Franchises. & Mail order. Detail. send $2.00 to: National Marketing Company. Box 3006, Boston. MA. 02130 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
CASH FOR CARS. TRUCKS regardless of condition. 277-9954. 
USED TEXTBOOKS 
AT A DISCOUNT! Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of N.D. ave. and Howard 
I WILL TYPE ANY PAPERS AT $3 A PAGE. CALL TANYA AT 239­6299. 
LOST/FOUND 
GLASSES LOST--BLACK CASE 
PLEASE CALL STEVE x1581 
'''Lost""'''''''''''''To whoever picked up my overcoat at the party on the 4th floor of Fisher Sat. night. you have my ID. wallet, and keys. I would like to eat this week and would really appreciate it if you would return my coat. Thanks. And by the way. I have a blue Air Force overcoat to trade with you. Mark x2937. 
Found: blue. Air Force overcoat. 
Call Mark @ x2937. 
LOST: Gold and diamond ring 
in LaLortune basement rest­
room. Of great sentimental 
value. If found, please call 
Theresa @ X4856. Possible 
reward. 
LOST SILVER ROSARY DURING FINALS!! PLEASE CALL IF YOU FOUND IT-MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. X4286 
LOST One gold and crystal bracelet on 1117190 between North Dining Hall and LaFortune. If found please call Liz at 4976. Great sentimental value, reward offered. 
LOST ·•• A Copper and Blue 
Swatch WATCH ... Sunday Night outside LaFortune. If Found-­please call x3549. 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373 
ATTENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000iyear income potential. Details. (1) 602­838·8885 Ext. Bk6262 
ATTENTION: EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLE WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868 
ATTENTION: EASY WORK EXCELLENT PAY! Assemble products at home. Details (1) 602· 
. 838-8885 Ext. W-6262 
ATTENTION: EARN MONEY TYPING AT HOME! 32,000iyr income potential. Details. (1) 602­838-8885 Ext. T -6262 
ATTENTION-HIRING I 
Government jobs-your area. $17.840-$69.485. Call 1-602-838­8885. Ext. R6262. 
GLACIER NATL. PARK. MT. Have the best summer of your life by joining the team rated tops in providing the best of Western hospitality to Glacier Park visitors! 1990 summer applications now being accepted for the following positions: Bar. Restaurant, and Kitchen staffs, Desk Clerks, Salespeople, and Store Clerks, Office, Service Station, Housekeeping, and Maintenance Personnel. Interviews will be help on campus February 12-13th. Write to St. Mary Lodge & Resort. 
P.O. Box 1808 Sun Valley, ID 83353 for an application. 
ROOMMATE WANTED Turtle Creek Apts Furnished, Close to ND 272-7449 
GRAPHIC LAYOUT DESIGNER FOR NATIONAL MONTHLY PUBLICATION. Keylining.design,layout & darkroom knowledge preferred. flex hrs. (219)277-0033 days 
Hard Working Book People Seek Energetic Assistants 1 0+ hrsiwk, flxbl sched Call288·1002, M-F 3-5 pm 
Wanted: dorm refrigerator. Call Niles 683-2111 
FOR RENT 
House for 1990·91 school year Furnished, secure home, 5 bedrooms, WiD Close to NO Coimpetitive rent. 264-6010 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 
NORTHWEST · 3-bdrm, gas heat, CiA, Refrigerator, washer/dryer, fenced yard, patio. $375imo. plus utilities. Deposit required. 232­1206. 
FOR SALE 
US Air roundtrip plane ticket good anywhere in U.S. until March 30th 
call Rod x4073 

Atari 1 040 ST computer with color monitor & 1200 baud modem, Jots of software inc. great v1220i401 0 terminal emulation. Asking $400.00 Call Peter (day) 239-6121 (night) 289-1702 
Plane ticket to Florida · roundtrip will talk $ ph#1075 

75 Volvo 164E. Classic styling, high miles, some rust. $1200. Call 289-9067. Leave message. 
1986 BUICK SKYLARK, 4-DOOR, AM-FM STEREO CASSETTE, 
44.000 MILES. POWER STEERING & POWER BRAKES. 272-5651. MAKE OFFER. 
TICKETS 
H'a been a blast the laat 2 yaar-.-lat'a makalt a thirdII SPRING BREAK Cancun, Rio, Bahamas, and Bannuda Call Doug 283-1818 
3 Billy Joel Tickets!! Feb. 19th Market Square Arena. Best Offer Gets Tix. Call Michelle at 284-5450. 
PERSONALS 
SUMMER JOBS ~OUNSELORS · Boys Camp, W. Mass. I Girls Camp, Maine Top Salary, Rm/Bd!Laundry, Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skill in one of the following activities: Archery, Arts & Craits, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Cheerleading, Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Golf, 
• 3uitar, Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback, Karate, Lacrosse, Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Radio, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, Scuba, Soccer, Tennis, Track, WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5963. Women call or write: Camp 
Vega, P.O. Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. 
SPENGJE: Just when you thought it was safe... 
SPRING BREAK SAILING BAHAMAS 45ft Captained Yachts Groups of Eight Seven Days Barefoot in the Bahamas $455.00 each All Accommodation & Meals SPRJNGBREAK HOTLINE 1-800-999-7245 Anytime 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to Jove and cherish. Legal. confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512 SELL ME YOUR BOOKS x3442 HISTORY: Holding the line by Alexander, Decade of Disillusionment by Heath, US at war, 1941-45 by Hess, Great Expectations by Jones, Presidency of Harry S Truman by McCoy. ENGLISH: Tocqueville's Democracy in America, Melville's Redburn, Hawthorne's Marble Faun, Portrait of a Lady, Sun Also Rises, Kafka's Amerika 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
$5.00 HAIRCUTS 

ND STUDENTS WELCOME 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST, S.B. 
233-4767 

JUDOJUDOJUOOJUDOJUOO FREE FOR EVERYONE 
WED 8-9 PM SUN 4-6 PM room 219 ROCKNE CALL 4053 FOR MORE INFO 
RIDE NEEDED to U of Illinois 
Jan 26 or Feb 2 Will pay$$ Call Lynn '3848 

If you are taking these classes I can sell you the books cheaply: HIST "Women's Place in America" Prof. Hoy, COTH lntro to Advertising Prof. Thurin. Call x3442. 
THINK FAST 
THINK FAST 
THINK FAST THINK FAST THINK FAST 

World Hunger Coalition Wednesday Lunch Fast SIGN-UPS Jan.24,25,26 in Dining Halls 
Or call X4229 or X2631 and leave a message to participate 
SMOKE TAXI 
Live! 
Thursday. Jan. 25 atCiub23 
and 
Saturday, Jan. 27 at McCormick's 

The Copy Shop is convenience. Lower Level LaFortune 
Women interested in the Ladies of Columbus should attend an organizational meeting tonight at 
7:30 at the Knights of Columbus building. There will also be an open house and refreshments served. The K of C is not just just for guys, it's for everyone!!!! 
Parrot Heads Forever ! ! ! 
INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL 
General meeting tonight for anyone interested in helping or paticipating. ISO lounge, 2nd floor LaFortune, 7pm. 
INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL 
Have you seen BATMAN and 

. WHEN HARRY MET SALLY? Both will be shown on Thursday at 7pm at the Knights of Columbus hall. So be there, where the action is ... the Knights of Columbus! 
The magic Eight-ball says, "If you dump the blond, give me a call." Make YOUR Dillonite brother proud. 
HARDBALL ENTHUSIAST: Even though I had a bueno time last weekend, I demand a rematch to tie the score. You know where to find me...l assume. 
JUNIORS 
JUNIORS 
CHICAGO TRIP 1i27-1i28 
TIX ON SALE NOW AT 
JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE 
LIMITED SUPPLY 
DON'T MISS IT !! 
hi ag 
KERRY BROWN turns 20 on 
the 24th!!!!!!!!! 

female student needed to share Campus View apt. for remainder of semester call 2774322 
LOCKERS LOCKERS LOCKERS Only $2.50 for the rest of the school year! Available at the Information Desk in LaFortune. 
NEED A BREAK ALREADY? Go to Chicago on the Windy City Shuttle! $10.00 at the 
Information Desk in LaFortune. 

Wanted · Students for Summer Internships! Come to the SUMMER JOB FAIR today to discuss opport-tunities for summer positions. 
1:00-5:00 p.m. · CCE. 
TODAY! SUMMER JOB FAIR! 1:00-5:00 p.m. · CCE Now's your chance to discuss summer internships and opportunities with company representatives. 
SUMMER JOB FAIR Company representatives on campus TODAY to discuss summer jobs and internships. 
1 :00-5:00 p.m. · CCE. 

WANTED: One male and one female lifesize, anatomically correct mannequins at the Senior Class Office by Friday, Jan. 26. The first person to bring both mannequins during office hours, 3-5 Mon.· Fri. receives a FREE Senior Formal bid. No questions asked. 
just when you thought it was safe to dance 
THEYRE BACK 
thats right 

Ballroom Dance Club invites you to have more fun than a human being is allowed to have Join us at the fencing gym, JACC 
Jan 29 7pm 
Sesquicentennial Year Celebration 

Application for Student Executive Committee 
Due Friday, January 26, 4:00 
Membership: 
Junior · Co-chair Soph. -Co-chair, plus 
3 Junior Reps. 
3 Soph. Reps. 
3 Fresh Reps. 
Pick up your application today and complete it by Friday! 
Happy 15th Birthday Bridgets! 
Come help us bring in the new 
semester by celebrating this 
"SPECIAL" week at Bridgets. 
VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give that special guy the best Valentine of all · yourself· in a glamour portrait by a nationally published model photographer. Details and free brochure. Joe Ringer. 287·0613. 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY. 
KATHLEEN GOLSKI · 
CHECK THE OIL! 
LOVE, 
MOTHER&DAD 

ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF 
PRAYE<R AND JOYOUS 
COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A 
CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: 
POOR GLARES, 
1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W., 
KOKOMO,IN 46901. 
7 OUT OF 1 0 PEOPLE CANT 
WRITE A SIMPLE LETIER 
SEEKING EMPLOYMENT. DO 
YOU CARE? CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS ACTIVITY 
NIGHT 
JAN 25 
IN NORTHERN IRELAND. THE 
IRISH REALLY ARE FIGHTING. 
DO YOU CARE? C.S.C ACTIVITY 
NIGHT JAN. 25 
Auditions for actresses for Cavanaugh's Up the Down Staircase will be held 1'29 and1i30 from 7-9 pm in 127 Nieuwland. 
Stanford 121 shall rise again! (QUIETLY) 
call Julie Parker 
and wish her happy 
B-Day!2270 
Had a party lately? Spilled 
"refreshments" on your carpet? 
Call 
SPARKLING 

CLEANERS to have your carpets look and smell like new. If you'd like your carpets cleaned. call Mark or Cesar at 283-1584. 
r---~------------.---~---­
page 12 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
first time in eight games. The llawks scored their last 10 points from the foul line and hnld a 40-21 frne-throwing ad­vantage over the Hornets. 
Armon Gilliam had his best night as a Hornet. scoring a season-high 29 points and grabbing 12 rebounds. 
John Long scor11d 17 points for the Hawks. Antoine Carr had 15 points and Spud Webb 14. 
Dell Curry scored 20 points for Charlotte. Kelly Tripucka and Hobert Heid added 13 each while rookie J.H. Heid had 14 rebounds. 
The teams went back and forth in the last five minutes, Charlotte scoring on eight straight possessions and Atlanta on six. 
The Hawks went ahead 101­lJ9 with 56 seconds to play on free throws by Malone. Tripucka made a bad pass that was intercepted by Atlanta's ClifT Levingson with 42 seconds remaining, and Webb was foul1~d by Curry. 
Wnbb, an 87.7 percent free throw shooter, hit both shots and Charlotte's Muggsy Bogues missed a 3-point shot in the corner. 

Malone hit two more free throws after a foul by Tripucka. Curry hit a 3-pointer to draw Charlotte to 105-101, but Long hit one of two free throws with seven seconds to play to finish the scoring. 
Both teams played without their leading scorers. Charlotte's Hex Chapman missed his fourth consecutive game with an inflamed left Achilles heel. Atlanta was with­out Dominique Wilkins, who sprained his ankle Monday and did not make the trip. 
Pistons 107, Bulls 95 
CIIICAGO -The Chicago Bulls' team record home win­ning streak ended at 15 games with lsiah Thomas and Vinnie Johnson combining for 17 fourth-quarter points to lead the Detroit Pistons to a 107-95 vietory Tuesday night. 
Leading 80-79 with 8:54 left, Detroit outscored the Bulls 15­6, with Thomas scoring nine straight points. The victory was Detroit's 1Oth in 13 games. 
The Bulls slowly crept back and and cut the deficit to 98­
Items 
:;ontinued from page 16 
Tunsday's issue of The Nnw York Times. The artiele, enti­tled "Walk-ons: Gn~at Snat and 
Free Snnakers," discussPd the 
role of the walk-on in college basketball. focusing primarily on Crawford. 
The 6-foot-4-inch guard. who comes in only during the waning moments of Irish blowouts. averages 2.6 points per game and is shooting 5-of­9 from the field. 
A former Irish player is enjoying success elsewhere, but his new team still ean't figure out a way to win games. 
Mark Stevenson, a two-year starter for Notre Dame before transferring to Duquesne, was the nation's 11th leading scorer heading into last weekend. Despite averaging about 28 points a game, the Dukes are having one of their worst seasons in school history. 


Duquesne started the season by splitting its first two games, and has since gone on a marathon losing streak. The Dukes had posted a 1-14 record before the weekend. 
Stevenson, now a senior, was dismissed from the Notre Dame team after a controversial 1987-88 season, in which the Philadelphia resident had a couple of run-ins with the law. 
College basketball fans surely won't have much trouble recognizing the name of the Irish women's tennis team's 
students went with us, this year space is limited 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 
AND SIGN UP 8 p.m. Wednesday, January 24 LaFortune Montgomery Theater 
EJc.= 
~ 

The Observer Wednesday, January 24, 1990 
94, with Michael Jordan, who had 32 points, scoring five straight with Jess than three minutes to play. 
But it was the Pistons the rest of the way, outscoring the Bulls 12-1. Thomas Jed Detroit with 26 points and Joe Dumars had 
16. Bill Cartwright added 15 points for the Bulls. 
Detroit dominated off the bench, outscoring Chicago 33­10. 
The game was tied a 61 in the third quarter when the Pistons went on a 9-2 surge capped by John Salley's dunk at 4:44. 
But then Chicago had a flurry of 13-8 to pull to 78-76 at the start of the final period. 
In the second quarter, Detroit trailed 32-29 and then went on a 19-8 spurt. Play got a little rough with 4:12 left in the half when Johnson and Cartwright got into a shoving match. Both were assessed a technical foul. 
The Pistons, behind Thomas' 13 points in the half, led at the break 53-51. Jordan had 19 first-half points for the Bulls. 
The Bulls had the biggest lead in the opening quarter, 21-16, after Scottie Pippen converted a 3-point play after being fouled on a layup at 3:49. 
latest recruit. 

Over the holidays, Terry Vitale (yes, it's his daughter) signed a letter-of-intent to attend Notre Dame next fall. 
Vitale,  from  St.  Stephen's  
Episcopal  High  School  in  
Bradenton,  Fla.,  is  ranked  

among the top 50 players in the 18-and-under age bracket by the U.S. Tennis Association. 
That's not the only good news the Irish women's tennis team has enjoyed lately. Sophomore Tracy Barton of Cincinnati is ranked 29th in the Volvo Tennis/Collegiate Rankings. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Blue and Gold cards are available at the GatP 1o ticket office at the JACC. The card costs $5 and is good for ad­mission to hockey, wrestling, women's basketball and baseball action. 
Bookstore Basketball will have a meeting at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the Notre Dame Hoom of Lafortune for stu­dents interested in applying for commissioner. Call 234­9716 for more information. 
WVFI-AM 640 sports staff will meet at 7 p.m. in the sta­tion. Call x2265 for more information. 
Off-campus students interested in playing on a racquet­ball team should call 271-8309. 
Off-campus hockey has a gmm~ at 10:30 p.m. Thursday. Call 271-8309 for more information. 
Racquetball Club members wanting at-shirt should pick one up by Friday night. Call x23.34 or x2274 for morn in­formation. 

LA\[]i])@!?~©® r.l ® 
lM®W®®U W®U®r:r~ 
Happy 18th Birthday, Quimby 
Garberina~ 


Knight says Hoosier freshmen making big contribution 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­Indiana's Hoosiers, ranked 12th in the nation and off to a 13-2 start this season, owe much of their success to their large and talented class of freshmen. 
Coach Bob Knight says it's probably the most talented group of newcomers he's had since his first year at Indiana, that he might redshirt some of them next year and that the biggest difficulty working with so many freshmen is in estab­lishing new habits for them. 
Knight took time out and talked with Wayne Fuson, sports editor of The Indianapolis News, about the young Indiana team. Here's a partial text of the interview: 
How did you go about recruiting so many freshmen? 
"I don't think that other than the first year I was here were there ever as many good kids who wanted to come to Indiana. There were at least three others we wanted, but just didn't have places for. There were a lot we wanted to recruit right away. The two Grahams, Greg and Pat; Chris Lawson, Calbert Cheaney and Chris Reynolds. Todd Leary was the sixth. I remember watching him early and remember think­ing that it was an incredible shame that we had so many guards that we couldn't find a place for him. In almost any year since I came to Indiana, Leary would have been a kid we would have recruited. We were talking to some other coaches about trying to help him get lo­cated even though I knew he was a kid who could play at Indiana. Then (Jay) Edwards left (for the National Basketball Association), and that left a spot for a kid like Leary who can shoot the ball. The seventh freshman was Lawrence Funderburke. We took a chance on him and it didn't pan out." 

Is it difficult to work with that many freshmen? 
"It may be more difficult when it comes to establishing new habits. Next year, when we see where we are, we might redshirt a couple of these kids and spread them out a little. All freshmen are like a funnel ­everything comes down to them. In high school they all had guys screening for them, passing for them, playing de­fense for them and doing a lot of things for them. Some teams even play a special kind of de­fense to keep that one kid out of foul trouble. Now he comes here and he has to be a Screener, a passer and a de­fender. There are a lot of things that he has to do differ­ently. We may have a player who can score better than he can. Maybe his shooting isn't as good. Getting each kid to un­derstand how he must play is probably the most difficult thing. When you are playing a lot of freshmen, and we are playing more now than ever, they are going to make mis­takes because they forget or they don't recognize what's go­ing on. And, when you make a dozen or so mistakes, they're difficult to overcome." 
How good are these fresh­men? 
"I think these kids have been way better than most freshmen that I can imagine. We've only got into trouble because of their mistakes in maybe four 

All are invited to the 

nigfits of Co{umbus 
Open House. 

7-10 pm, Wednesday at the Knights of Columbus Hall, Refreshments will be served. 


Women are invited to attend the organizational meeting of the 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF 
An opportunity, In di11logue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Chris!, your experience of Christian communlly nnd 5crvlce. 
WHEN: M<trch 2-~. 1990 
CONTACT: C<Jrnpus Ministry Ollrco (Hesburgh Librnry) 239·7000 
SIGt~ UP bCAOLirH:: Jnnu<1ry 26 -Fcbrun'l 2 
COST: $20.00 

California  Florida  Massachusetts  
Colorado  Illinois  Michigan  
Connecticut  Maine  New Hampshire  
Oist. of Columbia  Maryland  New Jersey  

STANLEY H. 

KAPIAN-SMH 
BAR REVIEW SERVICES 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
• 

games so far, and twice we've been able to bail ourselves out. The other two we couldn't. We have to get to a point where we can get these kids to react properly. Each kind of team presents its own difficulty and I'm not sure that any one team is more difficult to coach than another. But I do think this team is difficult from the standpoint of the mistakes they're going to make." 
Because of the freshmen, are you using more players than usual? 
"I don't think so, but maybe we have -because we have more players than usual. We've always changed the starting lineup around. But we do have more kids that I think can play. Sometimes when the game is over I look back and I'm really sorry that we didn't play a cer­tain kid 5 more minutes -or 8 more minutes. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
Ellis has not played in enough games to qualify. 
Also scoring in double figures are Keith Robinson at 15.5 ppg and Joe Fredrick at 13.4. They will likely be joined in the start­ing lineup by freshman Monty Williams (8.4 ppg) and guard Tim Singleton (5.8 ppg). 
NOTES -Wichita State coach Mike Cohen is in his first year at Wichita State after serving as a Shocker assistant for three years. . . The Shockers play eight of their final 12 games on the road...This will be the first meeting between the two teams...Wichita StatP has been outrebounded only three times this year...The next three Irish games will be tele­vised by Sportschannel. 

If}Qllre going todrink aal lhi\e at least let the re.i of LIS k!X1\I. 
Reader's Digest 

Attention Music Majors, Communication Majors, Anyone Interested! 
WSND-fm 

is looking for people interested in being announcers for our classical music station. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! Stop by the information desk in LaFortune and fill out a general application by Monday, Jan. 29. 

**************************~ 
ATTENTION ACCOUNTING SENIORS 
JLA§T C IBJANCIE 1r (Q) ffi IE ([ll IT §T IE ffi 
NOTRE DAME GHA REVIEW 
BEGINS O:N THURSDAY' PEBRUARY 1, 1990 
FOR REGISTRATION AND INFORMATION stop by 
EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS COLLEGE OFBUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 137 HAYES-HEALY CENTER (219) 239-5285 
~**************************, 
... 
----~-------~­

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, January 24, 1990 
Elway glad for chance 
ND Ski Club opens new season 
Although you would
to play San Francisco 
not think it due to the 
NEW OHI.EANS (AP) -Like some kind of sidewalk sharpin. .John Elway eonsid<~rnd thn con­dition of thn Denw~r Broncos and. in the tradition of quar­terbarks past. offered a Super Bowl guarantee. 
"Get another point-and-a­half." Elway said. "and I guar­antee we'll covN the spread." 
This falls somewhat short of Joe Namath's Super Bowl Ill guarantee that t!H~ 17 1/2-point underdog New York Jets would beat the Baltimore Colts, but it will have to do for now. 
The bf'tting line, measuring tlw rPlative worth of lhmver and San Francisco, says th!' Broncos an~ double digits short of the 4<krs. 12 112 points at last rPport. up from an original 
10. l·:lway thinks his team's sit­uation isn't quite that bad. 
"People are not giving us a lot of chance," Elway said. "If we win. it will bP the gn~atnst upset of all limn. If we lose, wPll. wP'n• supposed to InsP." 
Tlw quarlPrbark figures th.at puts all tlw pressun• on the~ 4<JI~rs, and that's fine with him. It tak11s two teams to make a Super Bowl. and the Broncos 
Wrestle 
~ontinued from page 16 
State's 150-pound wrtlstler Gary Hoopes. Layton was gnwted by a mean headlock in the first period that put him on his back for the first minute of the match. Layton fought off the pin and was able to free himself from the tight grip of Hoopes (17 -9). 
When Layton finally got to his feet, he looked a little dazed and received an injury time out. Layton ended the period down 5-1. In the second period, the momentum began to change. Layton chose top, knowing he 
• needed some big points to get back in the match. Layton exe­cuted a "turk" with a minute left in the pnriod and picked up three back points, and then two more to take a 6-5 lead. In the third. Layton dominated, escaping from the bottom and then pinning I loopes 59 seconds into the period. "Layton wrestled tough", commented McCann, "he really battled back, the guy he was wrestling was an All-American last year." With Layton's pin, the Irish took a 13-7 lead and continued to roll, winning three of the next four matehes and mount­ing a 22-13 lead. 
In the final bout of the (WHning, Irish sophomore Chuck Weaver (14-9) wrestled Ferris State senior Jim Beson (14-1 0). WeavE~r performed a single leg takedown and was leading 2-1 at the end of the first. In the third, his opponent was able to escape from bottom cutting arc happy to play the party of 

balmy weather across 
the second part. odds against 
the Notre Dame 
campus, the Ski Team
them notwithstanding. 

has begun its race sea-Mike Kamradt 
"Only one other team has a 
rham~e to be world champion," 
son. The team got un-Club Corner 
Elway said. ''I'd rather go to 
der way before dasses 
bat and take my ehances than 
started last week as 
not go to bat. I'll risk humilia­
they held tryouts for 
the 20 spots on the
tion for the chance." 

Humiliation, of course, has 
four separate squads. 
been the Broncos' n~gular diet 
Fifty-one people . 
turned out at Bittersweet in upper Miehigan
in this setting. This is Denvnr's 
(the sight was chosen after rain prevailed at
fourth Super Bowl and the 
the original site of Swiss Valley). In addition
third shot for Elway. Each of 
to the five skiers on each of the two men's
the other appearances resulted 
teams, four alternates were also selected.
in routs, and those wipeouts­
The respeetive women's teams from Notre
especially the last two when he 
Dame and Saint Mary's· have five members as
was the quarterback -weigh 
well as three alternates apiece.
heavily on Elway. 

The tryout consisted of one slalom and one
"For me to be the quarter­
giant slalom run for each skier with positions
back I want to be, I've got to 
determined by placr, order. The skiers who
win the big gamn," he said. 
made the team didn't have long to contem­
"Not too many guys who are 
plate the aecomplishment because they eom­
elassified as great quarter­
peted in the first race of the season just five
barks have not won thn cham­
pionship. I don't know how 
days later. 

The team trekked to Cab1~rfae near Cadit­
many more chancp,s wn'll have. 
lac, Michigan to compete against sonw formidable and more experienced foes. Tlw competition included teams from Grand Val­ley St., Miehigan, Michigan St., Western Michigan, Central Michigan, and Ferris St. The Irish made a fine showing as the nwn's team placed sixth, the ND women sixth, and the Saint Mary's team seventh. 
" I was very happy for our first race," said club prnsident Mike Sheehan. "We havP a really young team with over half being freshmen. It's a little scary in that first race." 
The team's resulls are esper.ially nrH~ourag­ing wlwn one considers the fact that all tlw schools in the race are situated in ski tlw haven of Michigan while the Notre Dame an~a isn't likely to b1~ compared to Vail in the rwar future. 
"Those teams an~ able to practice ol'tPn," commPnted She1;han." Some even haw skiing as a varsity sport." 
Bob Heich finislwd first among tlw Irish men. while Carli Schubert and Mike Sheehan !inislwd second and third rnspnrtiwlv. FL the Notre Danw wonwn Jo Jo Gehl and Trish Steger handiPd tlw icy coursP in tlw fastPst time for tlw team. Beth Mcintosh and .luliP llolbnrt WPrP top finislwrs for Saint \1ary's. 
l'vP missed two opportunities. llopPfully, we won't miss tlw boat on this <mn." 
Perles will remain Spartan coach 
Denvm lost tlw first Super EAST LANSING, Mich. !AP) ­Bowl played in the Superdome George Perlos, under considera­27-I 0 to Dallas in 1978. tion for a multimillion-dollar 
contract to coach the New York Weaver's lead to 3-2. With 45 Jets, decided to stay at seconds left in the match. Michigan State after its Beson took down Weaver, who trustees sweetened his head was not able to escape and lost coaching job Tuesday by also 
4-3. making him athletic director. 
"We ean't get a takedown The board of trustees' 5-3 and be satisfied," said McCann. vote brought mostly hisses, but "We should never have lost the some applause, from about 300 heavyweight bout tonight." people at the packed emergency 
board meeting. 

Notre Dame's top two "I am very confident in my wrestlers, seniors Andy ability to do both jobs," Perles Hadenbaugh (118) and Pat said in a statement. "Of course, Boyd (142), sat out the match you don't run a department by to rest up for this weekend's yourself. A strong, competent National Catholic Invitational staff is essential to any organi­in Cleveland. McCann thinks the zation. I have a plan that I hope 
Irish will turn in a good per­to develop." formance. Perles said his immediate 
plans wnn• to take earn of football rncruiting. which nnds with national signing day on Feb. 14. 
Perlns, who will assum11 his nnw job on July 1. will have a one-year trial with no extra salary. Tlwn. the board will re­view his performance and de­cide whether one person ran handle both jobs. 
The agmmnent sends a signal to the Jets, with whom Perlns had spent all day Monday nego­tiating, to search elsewhern for a head coach to replace the ousted Joe Walton. 
Board Chairman Larry Owen said Tuesday that Perles' deci­sion to stay at Michigan· State shows how loyal he is to his alma mater. "lie's brought us back to respectability." Owen sard, rPI'Prring to tlw srhool's long losing record bdorP f'prfps took over seven years ago. 
"An offer in tlw range of $5 million to $f1 million was avail­able from llw .IPts," (Jwpn said. 
Since taking over tlw Spartans, tlw 55-year-old roarh has wmpiled a 4(~-:n-3 rPCOnl. 
Not !WPryone wantPd I'Prlns to have tlw AD job, inrluding Michigan State l'msidPnt John DiBiaggio and board nwmber Dean Pridgeon, who voted against giving Pnrles tlw posi­tion. Pridgeon eited how. after leading Michigan State to the Big T11n championship in 1<JH7 and a Hosn Bowl vie tory. Perles accepted the Parkers' head coaching job. but backed out the day it was to bP annourH:c~d. 

"Yo Yo Get Funky" this week at 
~tiou5 
9:30pm Thursday 1O:OOpm Friday Saturday: NIGHTcLuB The 10-2 Musician St. Paul &the GENE COTTON Martyrs 
• with guest 5:00 Shadow 
First 100 people through the door get free yo-yo's! 
AEROBICS 
High,Low, Stretchercise, and Water Aerobics 

CAMPUS 

Wednesday 
6 p.m.: Presentation/Reception for all undergraduates interested in career opportunities with Rollins Burdick Hunter, Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. Sponsored by Ca­reer and Placement Services. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

Wednesday 
4:20 p.m.: Lecture, "Back to the Planets," by Dr. J. Callas, Jet Propulsion Laboratory , Room 118, Nieuwland Science. Sponsored by Dept. of Physics. 
MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Oven Fried Chicken Veal Scallopini Chippnd Beef on Toast Beef Tacos Noodles Romanoff Pasta Bean Casserole Mar Flank Steak Sandwich Deli Bar 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Tries &2Wedding missiles
25 More of the quip 63AGuthrie
1 Defame 
&Soggy lump 32 April forecast 
64 Din 10 Kitchen king 33 Fragrant 65 Controversial 14 What there is 38 Anglo-Saxon apple spray 
"nothin' like" laborer &&Appear 87 Legal wrongs 
15 Verdi opera 39 Kind of transit 68 Kind of concert 16 Crowning glory 41 Actress Lillian or 69 It's caused by17 Word with jury or Dorothy lunar attraction 
larceny 
42Ebb 70 Shooting sport 18 Radiate 
44 "Do-others 19 The Gloomy 
DOWN
Dean 

45 More of the quip 20 Start of a quip 1 Track circuits 
49 Sparoverheard on 

2-fixe 
the stag line 53 Seraglio room 
3 Lessen 23 Entire 54 End of the quip 
4 Put forth 5 Fatal 1 Group of geese 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 "-Marlene" 8 Repute 9 Cry like a baby 
10 Backbone 
12 Octad 13 Releases 30 Jackie's second 43 This, to Pedro 52 Wine buckets 21 House wing 
31 Zeus or Odin 46 "You Can't-55 Tail-end 22 Columnist's Again": Wolfe 
34 Chills and fever 56 Three, in tidbit 47 Altar vow Dresden35 Minute 
36 Ratio words 48 Brags 57 Luge
26 Vacationer's delight 37 French pet 49 Subway support 
58 Mien name 59 Drastic
27 Title for a U.S. so Fictional sleuth Pres. 39 Stadium cheer Vance 60 Noble Italian family
28 Nonesuch 40 Peer Gynt's 51 List the gist 29 Used a VCR mother again &1 Remainder 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


Hlf THIS 15 CINDI. I'M NOT IN 
R/GrHT NOW .BUT LEAV£ YouR NAME AND NUMP£R AT THE. ION£. If YouR LIFE \5 or ANY StG!NIFICANCE ww. so -£V£R ) I'LL 
CALL You BACK. 
At the public execution of the "Ring around the collar" copywriter. 

The Notre Dame 

We are looking for: Student Players Actors Musicians 
announce the Spring 1990 production of 

Stage manager, Business manager Ushers
THE 

Technical Crews: Costumes, Makeup & Props
FANTASTICKS 

Lighting, Set construction, Publicity 
And many others for this show and all future productions! 



Sports
page 16 Wednesday, January 24, 1990 
Irish look to rebound against Wichita State 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Something will change when Notre Danw hosts Wichita State in men's basketball action tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. 
Both the Irish and the 
Shockers have been victims of 
shooting in recent games. but 
in a contrasting manner. 
Wichita State has run into sev­
eral hot shooting teams, while 
Notre Dame is having trouble 
connncting on its finld goals. 
The Shockers have dropped five of their last six games, while watching opponents fill up the basket at a rate of 50 percent. Kansas State shot 56 percent from the floor in an 83­62 victory last wnekend. Bnforn those six games, Wichita State had gonn sewm games without allowing a foe to shoot 50 per­cent. 
The Irish. meanwhile, went into last week's games against Rutgers and LSU as the top­shooting team in the nation. They connected on just 41.7 percent of th1~ir shots in a wjn over the Scarlet Knights and then recorded a season-low of :H.9 pereent in an 87-64 loss to tlw Tigers in New Orleans. 
The Shockers bring a 5-11 record into tonight's gamn, but that record might be deceiving. They have lost -but played well -against teams sueh as Houston f6 7 -66), Purdue (62­
541. Indiana (75-54) and Kansas (93-66). 


"I think Wichita State will be a very deceptive team," said Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps, who will go for his 400th career victory tonight. "You don't really worry that a team has a losing record be­cause anything can happen. I think they'll come in here and play hard." 
The Shockers, 19-11 last sea­son. were hit hard by gradua­tion. The Shockers lost their leading scorer and rebounder in Steve Grayer in addition to Dwayne and Dwight Praylow and Sasha Hadunovich. Those four players accounted for 58 percent of Wichita State's scoring. 
Wichita State is led by John Cooper, a 6-foot 6-inch junior from Kansas City. Phelps calls Cooper, "one of the quality players at six-six who can make things happen." 
Cooper leads the team in scoring {14.7 ppg), rebounding 
(6.7 rpg) and steals (22). He has led the team in scoring in seven of the last eight games The Observer I John Studebaker 
and has hit double figures in 14 Tim Singleton and the Notre Dame basketball team will host Wichita consecutive games. State at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the Joyce ACC. It will be the first of a 
three-game homestand for the Irish.
Cooper will be joined in the starting lineup by two players three-game homestand after averaging in double figures -playing on the road for the pastjunior forward Aaron Davis at three weeks. The Irish sported
11.9 points per game and ju­a 3-3 record on that trip, with nior guard Paul Guffrovich at losses to Creighton, La Salle 
11.5 ppg. Rounding out the and LSU. starting lineup are sophomore "We handled the roadtrip at center Lance Kroll (7. 3 ppgl 3-3, but I look at opportunitiesand sophomore guard Keith where we could have been 5-1 Bonds (8.5 ppg). or at least 4-2," Phelps said. 
Notre Dame is beginning a "The kids are anxious to play 
ND wrestlers roll over Ferris State 
By MIKE CANZONIERO 
Sports Writer 
Thn 12th-ranked Notre Dame wrestling team ( 4-5) overpow­ered Ferris State (4-1) Tuesday night at the Joyce ACC by a 22­13 count. 
Going into the match, the Bulldogs were undefeated and ranked sixth in NCM Division 
II. Meanwhile, Notre Dame had just been beaten by the fourth­ranked Nebraska team on January 20th. 
"At Nebraska, we looked pa­thetic", commented Irish Coach Fran McCann. "We were doing things without authority." 
MeCann said the he knew that the Ferris State match wasn't going to be easy. 

"Ferris State is a tough bunch of wrestlers. They're not real strong on technique, but they have some really tough guys and their 134 and 177 wrestlers are ranked nation­ally." 
At 118 pounds, Notre Dame junior Dave Iacoponi (1-0) had some big shoes to fill with the absence of nationally ranked senior Andy Radenbaugh. laeoponi faced Ferris State's Oliver Richmond (6-2) in the opening match and lost 11-6. 
Notre Dame's 126-pound sophomore Marcus Gowens (13-6) was in control of the match from the opening hand­shake, winning 1 0-2 and giving the Irish a 4-3 lead. 
Freshman James Posey (3-2) wrestled in the 134 division and was cradled in the first period by Hegi Hatliff of Ferris State, but was able to punch his way loose. He finished the period down 6-1. Posey was never able to catch up on the nation­ally ranked Hatliff. who has 25 
wins this season.  Hatliff won  
10-2.  
With  the  Irish  losing  7-4,  
freshman  Jamie  Boyd  (2-8)  

dominated his 142-pound op­ponent, using double leg take­downs and beautifully executed leg sweep. Boyd won 10-5, evening the score at 7-7. 
In the most exciting bout of the night, Irish eo-captain Todd Layton (13-12) faced Ferris 
;ee WRESTLE I page 14 
No. 1 Missouri holds off Rutgers 
COLUMBIA, Mo. (AP) -John footer. Mcintyre and Doug Smith hit Hutgers (8-10) rebounded baskets in the final 1:42 and Doug Smith's miss with 24 see-Travis Ford made two free onds left, but Keith Hughes, throws with six seconds left, who had 27 points, missed a 3­giving top-ranked Missouri a point try that would've tied the shaky 89-84 victory over score and the ball went out of Hutgers Tuesday night. bounds. 
Hutgers. a 15-point under-Ford, fouled instantly, made dog, bolted to a 1 0-point lead both ends of the one-and-one to in the opening minutes and seal the victory, Missouri's first stayed with the Tigers the rest as a No. 1 team in almost ex-of the game. actly eight years, and the 
Missouri (18-1 l led only 82-Tigers' 27th straight victory at 79 when Mcintyre made a 3-home. Mcintyre finished with a pointer from the corner with career-high 25 points, Anthony 
1:42 left. But Hutgers' Earl Peeler had 19 and Lee Coward Duncan responded with a 3-had 16. pointer of his own to make it 85-82 at the 1:20 mark. Syracuse 83, Pitt74 
With 38 seconds left. Doug Smith worked inside and and SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) -Billy banked home a bucket that Owens scored 23 points and led made it 87-82 until Rutgers' a second-half run as No. 11 Daryl Smith connected on a 10-Svracuse shook up its starting 
lineup and stopped Pittsburgh 
83-74 Tuesday night in the Big 
East. 

The Orangemen (13-3 overall, 
4-3 in the league) ended a two­
game losing streak. Pitt (6-10, 
1-5) had won three straight vis­
its to the Carrier Dome. 
Syracuse tried something new to shake a recent offensive slump, bringing freshman point guard Michael Edwards and Richard Manning off the bench to begin the game. Sophomore Tony Scott also had his longest stint of the season. 
Syracuse senior Derrick Coleman got 10 rebounds to become the league's all-time leading rebounder, surpassing Patrick Ewing, who had 597 in his four-year career at Georgetown. Coleman, now with 606 rebounds, added 21 points. 
at home. We have eight home games left and the student body ean win those games for us." 
Sophomore LaPhonso Ellis leads the Irish at 17.7 points and 12.9 n~bounds per ganw. The rebounding average is orw of the best in the country. but 
see IRISH I page 13 
Lakerstake showdown with Knicks 
NEW YOHK (APJ -Byron Scott scored 15 of his 19 points and Magie Johnson had 10 of his 1:~ assists in a runaway first half Tuesday night as the Los Angeles Lakers defeated the New York Knicks 118-97. 
With the victory, the Lakers now have the best record at home ( 18-1) and on the road {11-8) in the NBA. The loss ­New York's fourth straight ­dropped the Knicks' record to 17-2 at Madison Squarn Garden. 
James Worthy added 18 points for Los Angeh~s. while Hod Strickland had 16 and Charles Oakley 15 for the Knicks. 
Scott and A.C. Green scored 
six points each during the 22-4 
first-quarter run that put tlw 
Lukers in eontrol. Los Angelns 
shot 60 percent from the field 
and New York :n percent in the 
period, which ended with the 
!.akers ahead :W-16. 
Hawks 1 06, Hornets 1 01 
CHAHLOTTE, N.C. -The Atlanta Hawks, getting 29 points and 16 rebounds from Moses Malone, broke a six­game losing streak with a 106­101 victory Tuesday night over the Charlotte Ilornets. 
Malone made six crucial free throws in thn last 1:19 and hit 13 of 14 foul shots as thn Hawks won on the road for thn 
see HOOPS I page 12 

Road to tournament lined with obstacles 
It's getting to the point where it's taking a schedule and a calculator to figure out Notre Dame's chances of 
making  the  NCAA  
Tournament.  
The  Irish,  who  presently  

hold an 8-6 record, would ap­
pear to need finish either 17­
11 or 18-10 to make the 64­
team field for a sixth consec­
utive season. That's no easy 
task, considering four teams 
in the latest AP Top 25 
poll remain on Notre Dame's schedule. 
Nonetheless, the Irish still have a better shot of reaching the tournament than a lot of people seem to think. It's just going to take at least one upset by Notre Dame. 
The Irish figure to be favored to win home games against Wichita State, Miami, Dayton, Marquette, DnPaul and Kentucky and in a road game against Dayton. Victories in all those contests would give Notre Dame 15 wins. 
That makes Notre Dame's February trip to Texas crucial to Irish tournament hopes. Notre Dame will face Southern Methodist and Houston; the Irish will bn favored against SMU, and the Houston game is pretty much a toss-up. If Notre Dame delivers in Texas. that makes 17 wins. 
But Notre Dame still may need a win over a high-profile team to secure a tourney spot. Winning at Syracuse or Duke would be a huge upset, but the Irish might be able to earn a split in home games with Missouri and Georgia Tech. 
If the Irish can't win any of those games, it could come down to a season-ending showdown with DePaul, another struggling independent, March 1 0 at the Hose mont Horizon. A win at DePaul, or against any of the Top 25 teams, would give Notre Dame the magic total of 18 wins. 
Of course, if the Irish start playing the way eyeryone thought they would at the beginning of the season, we can throw out all the calculators and start thinking of where Notre Dame will be seeded. 
While most of the Irish men's basketball team is strug­gling, the squad's most lightly-regarded member is earning national headlines. 
Senior walkon Tim Crawford was the subject of a story in 
5ee ITEMS I page 12 










