

VOL. XXIII NO. 139 FRIDAY, MAY 18, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Class of 1990 bids farewell to ND/SMC 
N D hosts 145th 
commencement, 
2,400 to graduate 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
News Editor 

The University of Notre Dame will celHbrate its 145th Commencement Sunday, May 20 at 
2:30 p.m. in the arena of the Joyce ACC. 
Entertainer and author Bill Cosby will address some 1,800 undergraduate and 600 advanced degree candidates. 
Cosby, who has been a major benefactor of traditionally black colleges and universities, will receive a honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame. 
Cosby was chosen because, "he's been very much connected with the idea behind the cele­bration of the Year of the Family," said Uni­versity President Father Edward Malloy in an earlier interview. Cosby's number-one rated television show, along with numerous books, offer humorous accounts of everyday family life. 
His career began 25 years ago in stand-up comedy. He went on to become the best-selling comedian of all time on records. The NBC television show, "The Cosby Show," has been number one in viewership for the past five years. 
Others receiving honorary degrees are as follows: 
see ND I page 8 

Saint Mary's to graduate 435 at 143rd commencement 
By KATIE MOORE Angela Athletic Facility. Oakar has been an active Legislators in Congress." She is also the director of a News Writer The Valedictorian for the campaigner for social and eco­The College will present video evangelization project in class of 1990 is Amanda Zenk, nomic improvement programs Oakar, a native of Cleveland, Zimbabwe, Africa, and is rec­a Spanish major from Butler, for women and senior citizens, with an honorary doctor of ognized as a pioneer in the field Four hundred and thirty-five Ind. according to McLaughlin. She Jaws degree. Also receiving of financial management within seniors are expected to receive U.S. Rep. Mary Rose Oakar has chaired both a House sub­honorary doctorates will be hospitals and religious com­
degrees during Saint Mary's (0-0hio) will deliver the com­committee on economic stabi­Sister Gerald Hartney, special munities. 
College's 143rd commencement mencement address, according lization and a task force on so­consultant to the Archdiocese Murphy is considered one of 
ceremonies. to Brett McLaughlin, public in­cial security, the elderly and of Washington, D.C., and bibli­world's foremost authorities on Commencement Ceremonies formation officer. women. cal scholar Father Roland the Bible. Currently an profes­
are scheduled to begin at noon Oakar has held a seat in the Ladies' Home Journal named Murphy. sor emeritus of biblical studies 
on Saturday in the Court of Le U.S. House of Representatives Oakar one of "America's 100 Hartney presently serves as a at the Duke University Divinity 
Mans Hall. In the event of in­since 1976, when she became Most Important Women," while financial management and School, Murphy was one of the 
clement weather, the com­the first woman Democrat from columnist Jack Anderson rated gospel values consultant to the 
see SMC I page 8 

mencement will be moved to Ohio to be elected to Congress. her among "The Ten Best Washington D.C., Archdiocese. 

Schmitz named ND '90 valedictorian 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
Assistant News Editor 
An "A-" in organ lessons is the only imperfection on the academic record of David Schmitz, 1990 valedictorian of the University of Notre Dame. 
Schmitz is a math major in the college of science and is from De Land, Fla., where he was valedictorian of his high school class. His cumulative grade point average is 3.996. 
Although he did not enter NO with expectations of being valedictorian, Schmitz said, after he received good grades throughout freshman and sophomore years, he decided to make it his goal. 
"I realized I'd have a good chance, and I thought I might as well go for it," he said. 
He thinks he has been ade­quately prepared for graduate school by his education at Notre Dame, he said, although he admits that it is difficult to know until you face it. "The un­dergraduate program in math is very good here," he added. 

Schmitz will enter the Univer­sity of Chicago in the fall, and plans to obtain a Ph.D. in mathematics, so that he can become a mathematics profes­sor. 
The other highest ranking graduates from the University's four colleges are: 
In addition to Schmitz in the College of Science, Jeffrey Derr of Saux Rapids, Minn.; and Christina Koonce of Mayfield, Ky. Both Derr and Koonce are pre-professional studies majors. 
In the College of Arts and Letters-Kenneth Scheve, an economics major from Prairie Village, Kan.; Mary Brown, a philosophy and psychology ma­jor from Lafayette, Colo.; and Mathew Slaughter, an eco­nomics major from Minnetonka, Minn. 
In the College of Business Administration-Scott Brachmann, an accounting ma­jor from Sheboygan, Wise.; Edward Pelican, an accounting major from Arlington Heights, Ill.; and David Alexander, a fi­nance major from East Brunswick, N.J. 
In the College of Engineering -Paul Dankoski, an electrical and computer engineering ma­jor from Midland, Mich.; Larissa Wenning, a chemical engineering major from Lexing­ton, Ky.; and Matthew Grayson, an electrical and computer engineering major from Charles Mo. 
•commencement Weekend 1990 • SCHEDULE OF EVENTS Saint Mary's 
Friday 

1 p.m. Annual nurses pinning ceremony, Church of Our Lady of Loretto 
4 p.m. Baccalaureate mass, Angela Athletic Facility 
Saturday 

Noon Commencement, Court of LeMans Hall 
Notre Dame 
Saturday 

9:30a.m. ROTC commissioning, JACC, reception to follow 
11:30 a.m. Volunteer send-off, Washington Hall, reception to follow 5 p.m. Baccalaureate mass, JACC 
Sunday 

Noon Business School diploma ceremony, Stepan Center 
2:30 p.m. Commencement, JACC 
5 p.m. Law School diploma ceremony, lawn adjacent to the Hesburgh Library. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Graduation is an end and a beginning 
This is it. Our four 
years of self-inflicted 
torture at Notre 
Dame and Saint 
Mary's are finally 
coming to a bitter­
sweet end. 
While I was reflect-dk. 
ing on my time time Chris Donnelly here I was Editor-in-Chief 
reminded of a story Emeritus Robert Fulghum tells in-------­
his best-selling b1ok about the first flight of 
a hot-air balloon. 
Ben Franklin. then American ambassador to France, was invited to watch the first hot air balloon take-off from a field outside Paris. On board the balloon there were three assorted barn-yard animals since people still feared the unknown gases in the atmosphere. From all accounts the flight was nothing spectacular. Not unlike the Wright brothers' maiden voyage, the bal­loon only travelled for a couple of hundred yards before landing in an adjacent field. 
A dignitary standing next to Franklin in the viewing stands was quite unimpressed and remarked to those present, "That's nice, but what good is it?" Franklin, how­ever, was somewhat in awe and quickly replied. "That's like asking, 'what good is a newborn baby?'" 
In many senses we are now like the new­born child Franklin referred to. We are not so much ending a portion of our lives but we are beginning something new. We are entering the uncharted waters of post-col­lege life and many, including ourselves, wonder about how prepared we are for our futures. 
We often complain that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are like parents -always telling us what to do and when to do it. In many ways they have been. However, just as the newborn comes into the world well­equipped to grow, we are leaving college well-prepared for the future has in store. 
In a drug-induced state I decided to be a philosophy major many years ago. Over the course of the past couple of years every time I tell someone my major they invariably respond quite quizzically, "Why?" Philoso­phy majors are not alone in this by any means. Few people see the practicality of being an Arts and Letters major in such a business-oriented society, and even many of my friends in more "practical" majors ques­tion the value of their education when their prospective employers are just going to spend time retraining them. 
During the past four years, however, we have learned more then how to get a job. We have learned how to think, how to enjoy life, how to make lasting friendships, and how to live on our own. 
Our futures, for sure, will be growing ex­periences. Like the history of flight that took a giant step way back in the 18th cen­tury with the launching of the first balloon we are taking a giant step now. We may not immediately fly around the world but we will start to go somewhere and our college experience will help us more that we could ever have ima · ed. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 Friday's Staff 
Sports News Systems
Greg Guffey Kelley Tuthill John O'Brien Laura Stanton Janice O'Leary Fritz Vatsaint Sandy Wiegand 
Production 
Accent Joe ladrozny 
Colleen Cronin Wendy Cunningham 
Joe Moody Wendy Cunningham Circulation 
Trace Murphy VIewpoint Ad Design Michelle Dall Amy Eckert 
Marga Bruns Kelley Tuthill 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Friday, May 18, 1990 
WEATHER 

The Accu-Weather forecast for noon, Friday, May 18. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's high: 62 Yesterday's low: 52 
Forecast: 

Mostly sunny, breezy and cool today. Highs around 65. Increasing cloudiness and cool Friday night with a 30 percent chance of FRONTS: showers after mid­night. Lows around 50 . Cloudy and cool Satur­
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
~ ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. day with a 70 percent chance of showers. Highs 60 to 65. Cloudy 
Pressure 

® © rnJ ~ [}] [3 [22]
X
' 


with a chance of thun­
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
dershowers on Sunday. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

CAMPUS The 1990 Commissioning Ceremony of the George Kuczynski, professor emeritus of mate-Army, Naval, and Air Force ROTC units at the Univer-rials science at the University of Notre Dame, died sity will be Saturday, May 19, at 9:30 a.m. in the Joyce Wednesday afternoon in his home following an illness. ACC. Donald Rice, a Notre Dame alumnus and secre-He joined Notre Dame faculty in 1951 and was one of tary of the Air Force, will address the newly commis-the first scientists in the world to establish the basic sioned officers. Receptions will follow the ceremony: theory of sintering, the heating of fine metal particles Army in the Monogram Room of the JACC, Navy/Marine at a temperature below their melting poin.t to .weld Corps in the University Club, and Air Force in the them together. He was educated at the Umvers1ty of North Dining Hall. Cracow in his native Poland, at the University of Swansea in England, and at the Massachusetts Insti­tute of Technology, which awarded him a doctorate in 1946. Notre Dame Head Football 
xw, Coach Lou Holtz has been made an honorary alumnus of the University. 
The cost of undergraduate education at the
The recent action of the national 
University of Notre Dame will increase $1,275, or 8.7
board of directors of the Notre Dame 
percent, for the 1990-91 academic year. Tuition will in­
Alumni Association was only the ninth 
crease $1,075 to $12, 390 and room and board will be
occasion a person has been made an 
up $200 to an average of $3,475, according to a letter
honorary alumnus of the University. 
sent to the parents of undergraduates. It cited main­
Holtz holds a 1959 bachelor's degree 
taining academic quality, including faculty salaries in 
in history from Kent State University and an M.S. in 
the top 20 percent in the nation; increased cost of 
education earned in 1961 from the University oflowa. 
health insurance and retirement; upgrading of campus computing, and expansion of the physical plant as the chief factors apart from inflation in the cost increase. 
Those unable to attend the University of Notre Dame's Commencement exercises in person on Sunday, 
A Russian-language article on the University 
May 20, may watch the ceremonies live and free of 
of Notre Dame appears in the current issue of
charge on television at the University's Center for Con­
"Amerika," the United States Information Agency
tinuing Education (CCE). The CCE will be open to the 
magazine distributed in the Soviet Union. The article,
public throughout the day and can accommodate as 
"The Soul of a Catholic University." is a reprint of a
many as 700 Commencement viewers in its various 
1988 New York Times Magazine profile of University 
meetings facilities. Seating for more than 400 will be 
President Father Edward Malloy. The article comes on
available in the center's auditorium. The CCE is located 
the heels of the formation of the Notre Dame Club of
on the east side of Notre Dame Ave!1ue directly oppo­
the Soviet Union last month in Moscow for alumni.
site the Morris Inn. Its doors will open Sunday at 7:30 a.m. 
The Distinguished Faculty Service Award, 
Saint Mary's College President William Hickey sponsored by the College of Business Administration has been elected chair of the board of directors of In­Advisory Council, was given to Paul Conway. Michael dependent Colleges and Universities of Indiana for Morris received the Senior Class Outstanding Teacher· 1990-91. The election took place at the group's April Award for the College of Business Administration. Lee meeting in Indianapolis. Hickey has been a member of Tavis was awarded the MBA Outstanding Teacher the ICUI board since 1987, and for the past year has Award and Hector Guerrero received the Executive served as the board's vice chair. MBA Outstanding Teacher Award. 
OF INTEREST ALMANAC On May18:
Shenanigans, Notre Dame's singing and dancing performance group, will e In 1536: Anne Boleyn, the be giving a commencement concert in Stepan Center on Saturday, May 19 at 1 p.m. 
second wife of England's King Henry VIII, was beheaded after she was convicted of adultery. 
e In 1921 : Congress passedThe Notre Dame Glee Club will give their commencement performance on the Emergency Quota Act, 
Saturday, May 19 at 9 p.m. in Stepan Center. which established national quotas for immigrants entering the U.S. 
e In 1943: In an address to Congress, British Prime Minis­The Volunteer Send-off for seniors continuing on to do soci~l work after 
ter Winston Churchill pledgedgraduation will take place on Saturday, May 19 at 11:45 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
his country's full support in the The event is being coordinated by the Center for Social Concerns. 
U.S. was with Japan. 
e In 1964: The State Department disclosed that 40 hidden microphones had been Army, Naval and Air Force ROTC units will hold their commissioning cere­found in the U.S. embassy in 
monies on Saturday, May 19 at 9:30a.m. in the JACC. Moscow. 
----~----------~­
r--~---~---------------~----------­
The ObserverFriday, May 18, 1990 
Groovln' with the Groove 
Seniors dance the night away Wednesday at the Joyce ACC with the popular campus band The Groove. opportunity to socialize and dance with friends before they graduate on Sunday. 
Livingston to receive award 
page 3 


Zenk to serve 
as SMC 1990 
valedictorian 
By JOE MOODY 
Assistant News Editor 
Amanda Zenk has earned the title of the 1990 Saint Mary's College valedictorian. 
Zenk, a Spanish major with a minor in American Studies, is graduating with a eumulative grade point average of 3.959. 
"It's a great honor," exclaimed Zenk. On her view of education, Zenk said, "Learning isn't just in the classroom but in helping others in the com­munity and using your education to lwlp other people," adding that if one does not go out and aet on what one has learned and share it with others, it seems "almost selfish." 
Zenk explained how aehieving such high grades took a lot out of her social life throughout freshman and sophomore year, but said she learned how to coordinate her time effectively after spending a year studying abroad in Madrid, Spain. 
An "A-" in Calculus 3 and and "A-" in Linear Algebra were the only grades that fell below the "A" level. 
Zenk was the salutatorian in her high school in  
The Observer/E.G. Bailey  Butler, Indiana. At Saint Mary's Zenk volunteered  
her service for the Notre Dame/Saint Ma,ry's He­ 
Seniors had the  larded, the Community Hesource Center Hotline, and worked at the local Hispanic Community  

Center. 

CSC to host Volunteer Send-off this Saturday 
Special to The Observer 
Patricia Livingston, associate director of the ·Center for Continuing formation in Ministry at Notre Dame, will receive the 1990 
U.S. Catholic Award, according to Father Mark Brummel, editor of U.S. Catholic, the monthly magazine. 
Addressing Livingston, Brummel said, "You represent a sourcf~ of wisdom often overlooked in the church. Too often, divorced, single mothers are looked upon as objects of ministry rather than as ministers themselves. You have generously shared from your experiences of intimacy and risk, tenderness and pain, in order to call the church's ministers to deeper more integrated human life. You have preached the good news that the heart of the Christian message is love, and human love is a tangible sign of God's love." 
Livingston began work at the Center, a component of the University's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, in 1988. A 1963 graduate of Trinity College, she received a master's degree from the University of South Florida at Tampa in 1975. A private counselor since that year, she has lectured and conducted a variety of seminars, conferences and retreats since 1973. Her clients include priests, men and women religious, parents, teachers and corporate work­ers. She has contributed arti­cles to two books, "Preaching Better" and "Why We Serve." 
The U.S. Catholic Award has been given annually by editors of U.S. Catholic since 1978 to individuals who have "furthered the cause of women in the Church." Last year's U.S. Catholic Award was given to Sister Thea Bowman, who will posthumously receive Notre Dame's highest honor, the Laetare Medal. during graduation exercises on May 20. 

By JANICE O'LEARY 
Associate News Editor 
The first social service com­missioning ceremony will be added to the commencement activities this weekend at Notre Dame. 
One hundred and fifty gradu­ating seniors and their families and friends have been invited to the Volunteer Send-off cere­mony on Saturday, May 19, at 
11:15 a.m. in Washington Hall, according to Michael Garvey, assistant director or Public Helations and Information. 
Mary Ann Hoerner, coordina­tor of senior programming for the Center for Social Concerns, pioneered the service commis­sioning ceremony. 
"There has always been a special ceremony honoring those entering the Holy Cross Associates and I thought it would be nice if it included stu­dents doing other social work after graduation," she said. 
Thirty-two of the graduating seniors will become Holy Cross Associates, taking part in the domestic and international mission work of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
In addition, Notre Dame graduates will be working in the Peace Corps, the Jesuit Volunteer Program. Habitat for Humanity and several other service efforts in this country and abroad, said Garvey. 

Hoerner said that approxi­mately 75 people have signed themselves and their parents up to attend the commissioning. However, she stressed that "if people are doing volunteer work and did not have a chance to sign up, they should still come to the ceremony." 
She also said that any faculty, staff. administrators or friends who are supportive of volun­teerism are all "cordially in­vited." 
Participants in the commis­sioning ceremony will be wel­comed by Senior Class President Carolyn Hey of Sarasota, Fla., who plans to work for an archdiocesan teaching program in a poor neighborhood of Seattle, Wash., said Garvey. 
Also speaking will be Irene Loftus, a graduating law stu­dent. She will be talking about her own experiences of social service in the Holy Cross Associates Program following her senior year at Notre Dame. 
Each senior will receive a ta­per lit from a large candle on the Washington Hall stage, and the ceremony will conclude with a prayer and a "supportive talk" from University President Father Edward Malloy, said Hoerner. 
Each year, a tenth of Notre Dame's graduates lind work in social service, he said. 
-41~ee water bottles to the first 100 people! 
~ Join in on the festivities during 

GRAND OPENING 
MAY 26TH 9am-5pm 
1W?'c off any merchandise purchased! Learn from guest speakers Meet manufacturer reps Refreshments•Door Prizes•Live Remote with WAMJ 1580 Talk Radio•Scheduled Bike Ride 
1724 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 272-0129 
--~----~----­
---~ ----------------~------~------~----­
page 4 The Observer Friday, May 18, 1990 
Memories of Notre Dame 

Observer File Photos Here are glimpses of some of the most memorable moments of recent years at Notre Dame. You will never forget the 1988 Championship season or the wild antics of the Keenan Review. Every spring Bookstore Basketball was there to thrill you, and we will never forget the tragedy of the St. Michael's Laundry fire. 


WITH AMAJOR LONG 
DISTANCE CARRIER 
STUDENT MARKETING MANAGER Sales oriented student needed for marketlna/promotlon position. Responsible for hiring, coordinating and managing campus organizations. Opportunity to work as Promotions Representative. Excellent pay. Flexible hours. All work on campus. Must be on campus and available 1-2 weeks prior to start of classes. 
STUDENT ASSISTANT MARKETING MANAGER Student with strong sales/organiza­tional skills needed for campus promotions. Must be on campus and available 1-2 weeks prior to start of classes. 
STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS Organized, outgoing sales/marketing group needed to represent our products and services during an on campus fundralser. Excellent pay.Must be on campus and available 1-2 weeks prior to start of classes. 
For more Information, send resume to: American Pa11ageMedia Corporation,Long Dlllanca Marketing 6211 Well Howard Btraet Chicago, IL 60648 or call (800) 727·6783. 

Congratulates the class of 1990 on their graduation 
11 Best of luck in yoW" futW"e. 11 YOW" friend MO 


Friday, May 18, 1990 
The Observer page 5 
Holy Cross Hall to be torn down this summer 
Observer Staff Report 
Whnn graduates return to Notrn Dame as alumni Holy Cross Hall will be no more. 
lloly Cross will officially close its doors over the summer after more than one hundred years of usn. It was originally used as a smninary at the University and has served as a men's resi­dence hall for the past 23 years. 
Notre Dame has leased the building from the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross. It is considered un­suitable for future use by both the University and the province. 
According to Rector William Kirk. there are several reasons for closing down the dorm. First. it will help the effort to ev1m the ratio of male to female students on campus since ad­missions of women have in­creased greatly in the past few years. 
Secondly. Kirk cited that the building itself is very old and is deteriorating both inside and out. The cost of repairs would be too great. he said. That is why the building will be torn down in .July. 
Holy Cross houses more than 200 students. The "!logs" who are not graduating this year will be transferred into open spaces in almost every male dorm. Father Gerald Lardner, rector of Grace Hall, has allot­ted the greatest number of spaces for the transfers. Forty residents will be placed in sec­tions of two floors in Grace. Kirk said this will help keep some of the old Holy Cross sec­tions intact. Other dorms will be able to 

together in their old arrange­ments. 
The dorm overlooks Saint Mary's Lake and resembles a rambling lakeside manor. Staircases are everywhere, the result of additions over the last century. Nooks and crannies abound. 
The oldest sections of the building date from at least 1889, when it was Holy Cross Seminary. From the 1920s until the 1960s, it housed high school students who were studying to become priests. said Father James Burtchaell. 
It was Burtchaell, a theology professor and former provost, who suggested in 196 7 that the university lease the building as a residence hall. Since 1981, he has lived in an apartment cre­ated in the former hall kitchen. 
Holy Cross boasts the largest dorm room on campus called "The Nine," which is a nine­man living area. The hall is known for its scenic view, re­laxed atmosphere and for its residents regularly registering the lowest collective grade point average on campus, ac­cording to students. 
"It's a little bit laid-back compared to the rest of the halls because we're so far away," said Kirk. 
No one seems to know for sure how Holy Cross men came to be called Hogs. Some say it is because they tended to track mud from the lake area into the dining hall. 
It's a name residents pride themselves on. They hope the memory lingers, even after their hall is gone. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this 
Support the 
f D•m
March 0 I es 
MAI~IGOLD 
MAI~KET 
IPtA'N AHfp.f)FoR YouR G~UA110N 
CEtEgf<ATION 
-

PARTY PLATTERS 
Hor<s D'oe:uvRES 
BRUNCH t2f l!UNCHlEON 
----~~---~ 
CONTACT OUR CATERING DEPARTMENT LAST MINUTE PART'< PLATTERS AVAILABLE 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

One last dance 
JimToth and Catherine Killian dance closely at the Senior Semi-formal on Monday night at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Faculty members to be honored 
Observer Staff Report and Letters. "In her close in­volvement with student and her work to expand the curriculum 
The following faculty mem­
of the entire university,

bers will be honored at Notre Professor Gernes stands out as 
Dame's 1990 commencement a motivator and thinker for 
for excellence in teaching: both her students and her col­
•Sonia Gernes, associate pro-
leagues," said Michael Loux,

fessor of English, will be pre­
O'Shaugnessy dean of the sented with the Charles E. College of Arts and Letters. Sheedy Award for excellence in •Lee Tavis, C.R. Smith profes­

ATTENTION; 
Grad Students 
Professors 
Employees 

*furnished and unfurnished suites 
•nexlble 
leases 

•washer 
& dryer each apt. *locked intercom entrances 

•spacious 
floor plans w/country kitchens 


1:12:=_ lQOQ \u~~' MAl* Non \oulh &<-nc1 lnc1MO"' 10ll6 
119•277•3731 @ 


-iiC1.>T-v/Ao 
·"1!~7"-P"J:g:. ~!Jo:11¥ 40 tl(1.)~BJl~, ®JJlrJilii!l 
·~'~~~· 
;t::~(1.):;\::~<1'3J:U:*:"'tf!ft~1992$3Fl£"t'l;::$¥ 
(Bachelor J;jJ:.(1.)~{i'rl!)<jiJ) 'f:if:(1.)\¥1~~
••m• 
~tJomm. ~lili:"t'(1.)11llml~i!J'f;J.~P"J · ifii?l­c t n·~u"t'-llllflm (ifii?I-:IJ""';t. $ 4oo, ~i*l:IJ'"' f;J. ¥20,000 a: "t'Ji*fla-'f:ii::) 
.<1'3$i6.7}15;i;• 1/lll!J;:: -c <1'3$;6.7} <tc:.~ ~ '• liilll!f.<iJ!~(1.)lK£, :l$tl 
J: IJ tfi' IJ iii! l.::"iJ*l!$lJ:.lj'li:9. 
sor of Business Administration, Finance & Business Economics. will be presented with the MBA Outstanding Teacher Award. 
•Hector 
Guerrero, professor of management, will be awarded the Executive MBA Best Teacher Award. 

•Michael 
Morris, associate professor of Accounting, will be presented with the Business Administration Senior Class Outstanding Teacher Award. 

•Leonard 
Morse-Fortier. as­sistant professor of Civil Engineering. will receive College of Engineering Outstanding Teacher Award. lin has consistently been ranked "excellent" by his students over the past seven semesters, according to Anthony Michel, McCloskey dean of engineering, and is known for his keen interest in and his obvious passion for his subject. 

•Jeremiah 
Freeman, profes­sor of Chemistry, will be awarded the Shilts-Leonard Teaching Award in the College of Science. The award. insti­tuted in 1983 to recognize out­standing teaching, memorial­izes Father James Shilts, a long-time Notre Dame astron­omy and astrophysics professor before his death in 1982. 


~seLnate 
•<I'Oro,~ '-8"t>tt• "!!Jv*-Hl**tl l*llll!t~••Sf! 
~~~/ltclli · •1EB •':ft.f ·;tl!l!ll TEL. 1-800-537-2186(Toll Free) £t~/;t. 03-234-5071 
s*11\'ir.,/9: oo-18: oo 
*!lJli:l;::iJ*l!:IJl?:IJ'f.<~ 'il-8"1;1., rf2NY :t?-<7."­.::"il*l! <r;::~ ~ '• 
"\!Jv*-1-U.S.A. NY:t?-<7. 
~~~/;IJ/1 
TEL. 1-800-344-7241 (Toll Free) :H~I;t. 212-986-5520 
1 ~:lm1i*4ll3t®Jf-:g=B~fE!.S~ I--NY_P1'i_r.n/_9:_oo_-1_7:o_o__ 
*!lli< • NY;!t;f;::±llll· E3BIII;t.lt?<l!ll:"t. 
~ ~~--~-~~~------­
-----------~-----~ -----­
------------.__, 
page 6 The Observer Friday, May 18, 1990 





Arthur Andersen Welcotnes the Following 1990 University of Notre Datne and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firtn 
Mary M. Baron Kevin C. Lane 
Boston Office Chicago Office 
John M. Baumer Brian J. Leahy 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Scott J. Brachmann Brett A. Lokhorst 
Chicago Office Atlanta Office 
Paul A. Brauweiler Erik A. Madsen 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Craig A. Brummel Danielle M. McClure 
Los Angeles Office Chicago Office 
Michael A. Caponigro Joseph F. Meyer 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Richard J. Condon Deirdre A. Milon 
Boston Office Chicago Office 
Sheila E. Dooley Daniel M. Molyneaux 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
Jeffrey M. Douglass James K. Rojas 
Houston Office Chicago Office 
Thomas F. Falkenberg Steve F. Schueppert 
Chicago Office St. Louis Office 
Sean T. Fitzpatrick Melissa K. Stapleton 
Seattle Office Indianapolis Office 
Ronald D. Flynn Michelle A. Soper 
Chicago Office Chicago Office 
John R. Fullett Thomas G. Tomasula 
Chicago Office Cleveland Office 
Brian P. Gallagher Jean Van Brackel 
Chicago Office Columbus Office 
Paul H. Keffler Joseph B. Vierhile 
Fort Lauderdale Office Chicago Office 
Kerry K. Kitch Todd P. Wagenblast 
Chicago Office Indianapolis Office 
Elizabeth J. Kozak Monica M. Wochner 
Chicago Office Chicago WHQ Office 
Mary Rose Lalli Marcia A. Zeese 
Washington, D.C. Office Chicago Office 

Friday, May 18, 1990 
Award established in honor of Thea Bowman 

Special to The Observer 
Thn Sister Thea Bowman Foundation has nstablished an annual Sister Thea Bowman Award for outstanding contri­butions to black Catholic edu­cation. according to Archbishop Eugtmn Marino of Atlanta, chair of the Foundation's board of dirnctors. 
The Sister Thea Bowman Award honors the Foundation's founder. Sister Thea Bowman, the prominent Gospel singer, evangelist. and Mississippian who passed away March 30. 
The Foundation was launched last year at thn behest of Bowman with the help of five 
U.S. Catholic bishops. Its pur­pose is to provide scholarship opportunities from grade school through college. 
In its first year of operation, thn Foundation provided schol­arships to 46 college freshmen. Marino called the launching of the Foundation "a turning point for black Catholics in the United States." 
Thn idea for the Foundation began in 1988 with Dr. Leonard 
Sister Thea Bowman 
Jennings, a Stowe, VT, ortho­pedic surgeon, his wife Mary Lou Jennings, and Father Thomas Hoar, the director of campus ministry at St. Michael's College. 
Bowman was widely recog­nized for her work with black youths. A charismatic leader who worked tirelessly to teach children in poverty both in Mississippi and around the world, said at the Foundation's inauguration, "I feel deeply honored to have a foundation named for me which gives young people a real opportunity 
to develop their talents." 
I 
Condo Suite 
For Sale 
•i by owner 
iAdjacent to the ND Campus : Enjoy your own unit of the! Jamison Inn . 
1404 N. Ivy at Ed1son Personal Comfort and Investment in a warm and efficiently operated hotel 
$84,500 
contact Peter Hasbrook 517-631-3337 910 Holyrood Midland, MI 48640 
• •i 

The Observer page 7 

The Observer/ E. G. Bailey 

Swinging seniors 
Seniors dance the night away at the Senior Semi-formal held on Monday during Senior Week in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center which will be the site of the Commencement ceremony on Sunday. 
Laetare awarded posthumously 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, the old­est and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics, will be awarded to Sister Thea Bowman posthumously on Sunday during the University's Commencement ceremonies. 
Bowman died on March 30, six days after being named the first African American to re­ceive the medal, at the age of 
:wliat:are: we: 
. . . .•. . . •t. "d" .. 
:g~I~g: .9: : ~ : ::next:year :: 
..... h .... "h ..
:w:It..out t ..e: ::~~~:gf~~~~ :: 
:wench:: 
around?:
............ 
:l'll:miss:you~ ::Love :Keite·:
...... ·'· ...... y 
51. 
Auxiliary Bishop James Lyke of Cleveland and Sister Dorothy Kundinger will accept the award in Bowman's place. Lyke was her friend and Kundinger was her companion. 
"In multiple ministries of word, song, and suffering Sister Bowman has shown Church and world alike a face of Christ both black and female," University President Father Edward Malloy said in March. "In honoring her, we celebrate not only her witness but also the cultural wealth of the Catholic Church in our land." 


Afflicted by cancer since 1985, Bowman was a member of the Franciscan Sisters of Perpetual Adoration, and was confined to a wheelchair. Despite this handicap, she maintained a gruelling schedule of lectures and singing perfor­mances designed to raise awareness and appreciation of black Catholic culture. 
She was also a consultant for the Catholic diocese of Jackson, Miss.• she helped organize the 1987 National Black Catholic Congress, an event celebrating the contributions of America's black Catholics to their Church. That same year she was the subject of a profile on the CBS television program "60 Minutes," whose host, Mike Wallace, dubbed her "the African-robed priest." 
Born in Canton, Miss., and the granddaughter of a slave, Bowman read, spoke and sang before hundreds of gatherings nationwide as well as in Nigeria, Kenya and Canada. She earned a doctoral degree in rhetoric and literature from Catholic University of America and had published, in addition to several articles on black spirituality and ecumenieal re­lations, articles on the writings of St. Thomas More. 
Bowman was a member of the faculty of the Institute of Black Catholic Studies at Xavier University in New Orleans. Admirers of her work have established a Sister Thea Bowman Educational Foundation to provide financial support and mentoring pro­grams for black students in Catholic primary and elemen­tary schools and Catholic col­leges and universities. The foundation board is chaired by Archbishop Eugene Marino of Atlanta and Malloy is a mem­ber. 
The Laetare Medal is so named because its recipient is announced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent on the Church calendar. "Laetare," the Latin word for "rejoice," is the first word in the entrance antiphon of the Mass on that Sunday, which anticipates the celebra­tion of Easter. 
Established at Notre Dame in 1883, the Laetare Medal was conceived as an American counterpart of the Golden Rose a papal honor. 
Ihe Obse~r-= would like to thank the seniors who have invested their time and energy to the Observer over the past year. May the future hold good luck and happiness. 
Chris Donnelly Regis Coccia Matt Gallagher Theresa Kelly Rich Ianelli  Christine Gill Anne Linder Kim Skyles Maggie McCloskey Mark Derwent  Mindy Breen Val Poletto Greg Tice Andy Morrow Tim Quinn  
Dave Bruner  Sara Marley  Dan Towers  
John Blasi  Tim O'Keefe  Diedre Bell  
Molly Killen Angela Bellanca Laura Stanton  Greg Lucas Molly Mahoney Steve Megargee  Joe Bucolo Jose Fernandez Kevin Steinwachs  
Marga Bruns  Chris Fillio  

Thanks also to Shirley Grauel, our Office Manager. 

The Observer/Theresa Bosten 
Getting ready for the real thing 
Saint Mary's seniors proceed to the honors convocation at O'Laughlin Auditorium. Prior to this, the students participated in the hooding ceremony with professors from their academic departments. 
, Friday, May 18, 1990 
Gumbleton receives 1990 Peacemaker Award 
Special to The Observer 

Most Rev. Thomas Gumbleton, auxiliary bishop of Detroit and president of Pax Christi U.S.A., has received the Peacemaker Award from the University of Notre Dame's Institute for International Peace Studies. 
The citation praises Gumbleton as "pastor, teacher, counsellor, comforter of the af­flicted, soldier of the Spirit, and man of peace in word and deed. In a world of violence, hatred and fear, he carries aloft the lamp of light and truth and of­fers words of love and reconcil­iation. He restores our souls and enkindles hope for the fu­ture of humankind." 
An internationally prominent activist in a variety of peace and social justice causes, Gumbleton was a member of the committee which drafted the American bishops' 1983 pastoral letter, "The Challenge of Peace." Ordained in Detroit in 1956, he was consecrated as bishop in 1968. 
He travelled to Vietnam dur­ing the war in Southeast Asia to investigate the plight of political prisoners there. In 1979, he travelled to Iran as the Catholic bishops' representative to visit the U.S. embassy hostages. 
An outspoken opponent of American military intervention in Central America, Gumbleton has also served as spokesman for Quest and Witness for Peace, two organizations op­posed to U.S. policies in that region. 
Gumbleton is Detroit's re­gional bishop for parishes of the inner city, one of which, St. Leo's, he serves as pastor. He is also a visiting fellow of the Institute. 

ND 
continued from page 1 
•Rutherford 
Aris, regents' professor of Chemical Engi­neering at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, doctor of engineering. A member of the faculty at Minnesota for more than 30 years, Aris has received teaching and research awards from the Danforth Foundation, the American In­stitute of Chemical Engineers and the American Society for Engineering Education. 

•Father 
George Clements, pastor of Holy Angels Church, Chicago, doctor of laws. The longtime civil rights activist has organized neighborhood protests against drug dealing and has inspired by his own ex­ample the adoption of black children. 

•Jill 
Ker Conway, visiting professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cam­bridge, Mass., doctor of laws. Historian and former president of Smith College, Conway also is the author of "The Road to Coorain," an account of her upbringing on a sheep ranch in the Australian Outback. 

•Ernest 
Eliel, W.R. Kenan, Jr. professor of Chemistry, Univer­sity of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, doctor of science. Author of a seminal text in his field, Eliel is a former Guggenheim fellow, former chairman of the American Chemical Society and a member. of the National Academy of Sciences. 

•Suzanne 
Farrell, ballerina, New York City, doctor of laws. Recently retired from the New York City Ballet, Farrell was a principal dancer with the com­pany for 24 years and is renowned for her interpreta­tions of the works of George Balian chine. 

•Emil 
Hofman, retiring dean of the Freshman Year of Studies and professor emeritus of chemistry at Notre Dame, doc­tor of science. As a graduate student, teacher and dean, Hofman has been associated with the University for 40 years and has taught more than 30,000 students. 

•Ignacio 
Lozano, Jr., editor-


SMC 
continued from page 1 
key leaders in the Second Vatican Council. 
Mr. and Mrs. William Ryan of Hinsdale, Ill., will be awarded the President's Medal for out­standing service to Saint Mary's and their local community. 
in-chief of La Opinion, Los An­geles, and a Notre Dame trustee, doctor of laws. Former American ambassador to El Salvador and a Notre Dame alumnus, Lozano edits the most widely read Spanish-language daily printed in the U.S. 
•J. 
Richard Munro, retired co­chairman and co-chief exec­utive office Time Warner Inc., New York City, doctor of laws. A career with Time until his re­tirement on May 9, Munro also is known for his voluntary ser­vice as president of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, chairman of the New York Urban Coali­tion, director of the United Ne­gro College Fund and in other, similar positions. 

•Javier 
Perez de Cuellar, sec­retary general of the United Nations, New York City, doctor of laws. The first Latin Ameri­can to serve as Secretary Gen­eral, Perez de Cuellar has won praise for reinforcing the UN's role in peacekeeping and for his personal peace initiatives for the Falkland Islands, Afghanistan and Namibia. 

•A. 
Kenneth Pye, president of Southern Methodist University, Dallas, doctor of laws. Former chancellor, dean of the law school and acting president of Duke University, Pye in August 1987 was chosen the ninth president of SMU. 

•Martha 
Seger, member of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System, Wash­


ington, D.C., doctor of laws. The first woman appointed to a full, 14-year term on the Board of Governors, she represents the Fed on the National Women's Business Council and also serves as chair of the board of directors of the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation. 
Also at Commencement, Sis­ter Thea Bowman, the late poet, evangelist and Gospel singer, will be honored with the first posthumous presentation of the University's Laetare Medal. Bowman died March 30, six days after being named the first African American to re­ceive the medal, the oldest and most prestigious award given to American Catholics. 
Auxiliary Bishop James Lyke of Cleveland and Sister Dorothy Kundinger will accept the award. Lyke was a friend of Bowman and Kundinger was her companion.. 
After the University com­mencement exercises, a diploma ceremony for the Notre Dame Law School will take place at about 5 p.m. on the lawn adjacent the the Hesburgh Library's reflecting pool. The alternate location, in case of rain, is the JACC, following a short break to clear the area after commencement. 
Speakers at the Law School diploma ceremony are Univer­sity Presid~nt Father Edward 
Chinese-Americ1n Restaurant & 
l>......P:'lm. GR£~)7" 

Cocktail loun&e 
Authentic Szechuan. Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
\YALL 

·~~.::....-.., Lunches starting at_____ $3.45 Dinners starting at_____ $4.95 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon.-Thurs. 11.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri.· Sat. 11:30 a.m. to 11p.m. ~---......1 Sun. & Holidays 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. Way S., Sc>uth Bend (next to Randall's lnnl 
"You Haven't changed too much" Love always, Mama, Papa, Frank, George, Rhonda and Barbara 
Malloy, and David Link, Matson dean of the Law School. 
The diploma ceremony for the MBA program of the Notre Dame College of Business Ad­ministration will be May 20 at noon in Stepan Center. Lee Tavis, Smith professor of busi­ness administration, will ad­dress the graduates 

Quit smoking. 

American Heart Association 


BRUNO'S JJtl 
on Eddy and Prarie congratulates the class of 1990!! 
Good Luck and thanks for your 
business!! Come join us next year at Bruno's upstairs at 2610 Prarie 288-3320 

ASK ABOUT OUR 
I I I I d l I tt IJ Jl* 
COLLEG . GRADUATI; . 
.. ..FINANCE. ·.. ;PLAN.·'... .·· 
YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. 
YOU'VE EARNED IT. 
Jordan's Auto Mall 609 E Jefferson Mlsllawaka (219) 259 1981 

Congrats Ensign Chris McCarthy, 
USN 
ID Class ofl990! 

We are proudof you!Toledo's "Top 
liun" • Go ND­Go Navy!Your family in Toledo 


r-----------------------------------------·---------------------------­

WE HAVE A G UATION GIFT THAT'S GU TEED TO MOVE YOU. 

$500 CASH BACK TO RECENT COI~I.EGE GRADUATES. 
You've given alot over the past four years and The New Shamrock would like to give something back. $500 Cash Back! It's true. And it's yours. Ifyou've graduated or will graduate from an accredited four-year institution between April1, 1989 and December 3, 1990 -The New Shamrock Uncoln-Mercury will give you $500 cash back on the purchase of any new 1990 Uncoln or Mercury! Best of all, you can combine that cash with any other cash or APR incentives (except Ford First-Time Buyer Program). So, see The New Shamrock for full details and the Uncoln or Mercury you really want. But, see us soon. This offer must end May 31, 1990! 



NEW 1990MERCURYTOPAZ 
Suggested Retail Price (#9032)•.•••$12,765 Shamrock Savings .......................... -$2,370 Factory Rebate........•••.••.•••••.••.•..•••••••.-$900 Colleae Graduate ~h 2Jack ............. -Ssoo SALE PRICE: 
$8,995 or$182/Montb/* 
NEW1990 MERCURY COUGAR 
Suggested Retail Price (#9147).••••$16,667 Shamrock Savings•••.•••••••••••••••••••.•.-$2,372 Factory Rebate•••••.•••••••.••••••••••••.••.••-$1,300 college Graduate cash Back ............. -ssoo SALE PRICE: 
$12,495 or$262/Montb/* 
NEW1990 MERCURYSABLE 
Suggested Retail Price (#9002)••••.$16,976 Shamrock Savings ..•...••..•.••.•••••••.... -$2,581 Factory Rebate••.•........•......•..•...•••.••••• -$900 College Graduate Cash Back. ............ -Ssoo SALE PRICE: 
$12,995 or$273/Montb/* 
•Prices shown are for numbered vehicles only, reflect all applicable rebates/discounts and do not include freight/prep charges, tax, titte ur license fees. Payments shown are based on a down payment consisting of $1000 (cash or trade)+ freight, tax, title a: license; Rate a: term may vary by model; Subject to credit approval a: insurability. All vehicles subject to prior sale. Offer subject to change without prior notice. 

,_ ---------~-----------­
Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, May 18, 1990 
p 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brier. Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, 1s encouraged. 

Dear Editor: 
This is one of the last times I will address graduating Saint Mary's students as seniors. In a few short days you will become alumnae of Saint Mary's, mem­bers of an active and committed alumnae association over 16,000 women strong. I hope that in the future I will again address· you as alumnae when you return to campus for College events, reunions and maybe, one day, as parents. 
But, for now, I would like to talk to you once more as Saint Mary's students. The contribu­tions that you have made to our college have made it a better place. Whether through your involvement in student govern­ment, clubs, athletics, campus ministry or as a leader in the classroom, each has left her mark. Especially at Saint Mary's, individual effort makes the difference. You will be re­membered by the faculty, ad­ministrators, staff and remain-
DOONESBURY 
ing students for your energy, talent and compassion. 
I also believe that just as ev­ery student makes a contribu­tion to Saint Mary's so does Saint Mary's make an impact in every student's life. As a Catholic women's college, Saint Mary's forms a community that fosters leadership and intellec­tual and spiritual growth. As members of that community, you have been given the tools to begin the lifelong process of clarifying and living your goals and values. 
Apply the skills and knowl­edge that you have acquired at Saint Mary's. The greatest gift of your education is in the ex­ample of your life. 
With the faculty and staff of Saint Mary's, I wish you all God's blessings in your future. 
William A. Hickey President Saint Mary's College May3,1990 

LETTERS 
Graduates face new challenges 
Dear Graduates, 
I offer you my congratulations as you complete this stage of your life here at Notre Dame. I am sure that you can look back over this span of time with a real sense of satisfaction and achievement. Not only have you risen to the challenge of a very competitive academic environment, but you also have assumed responsibility for the quality of life on our campus. In various student organizations, you have provided leadership and service. We are all the beneficiaries of your good will and creativity. 
I am sure that you find it amazing to recall all the changes that have taken place during your years here. Deep friendships have been formed, a wider perspective on the world has been gained, and your religious faith has been tested by experience. I hope and pray that you will be blessed in the years ahead. We will miss you, but it is appropriate that you take on a new set of challenges as you begin your life elsewhere. 
You are always welcome back on campus. A part of you will always remain with us. We count on your support in your new status as an alumnus of the University. Thanks for all that you have contributed to our common life. All best wishes and congratulations. 
Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. President University ofNotre Dame May 1, 1990 
Tyson offers ND grads prayers, best wishes 
Dear Editor: 
I should like to take this op­portunity to extend my best wishes and prayers to the Class of 1990 as its members prepare to move on to new ventures. Commencement is a time of mixed emotions for many who leave. Excitement, apprehen­sion, happiness and sadness all come together during Com­mencement Weekend. 
For those of you who are graduating seniors, it is my hope that we have achieved our goal in providing you with an education of the mind and of the heart. May your commit­ment to your faith in God and to service match your dedication to your chosen vocation and profession. Notre Dame has high expectations of its students. The tremendous con­tribution that our alumni make to our society and to the Church is a testament to the importance of those high ex­pectations. 

For· those of you leaving with graduate and professional de­grees, it is my hope that you will take with you the best of our traditions as they relate to your discipline. If you bring to your chosen field a strong set of ethical convictions and a commitment to justice, you will represent the best of Notre Dame. 
Finally, a note of gratitude to all of you. You not only take from here, but you have made a variety of contributions to your colleagues, the institution and to those of use who remain to assist students who come in the future. 
May the Lord go with each of you. We are blessed to have you as a member of the Notre Dame Family. 
David T. Tyson, C.S. C ltlce President of Student Affairs April 30. 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
A 708AaD RACK? 
NO KJ[)f)ING ~HOW ACTVAU't 
IXJe5 $ HANfJt& H£'5 A 8/T THetf/HOW? M/31<-flPF&N51V& OIANTOP IJ8A7H A80UTIT. 
THINGr 

'Ah, but a man's reach should exceed his grasp, or what's a heaven for?' 
Elizabeth Barrett Browning 

Accent 
Friday, May 18, 1990 
The Notre Dame Family: 
The Abowd family has graduated 9 children from ND 

page 11 

JOE MOODY accent writer 
After nirw graduating chil­dn~n. ten degrees, and about a half-million dollars in educa­tional expenses, the family of Hichard Abowd claims the world's meord for Notre Dame graduates. 
The last of the Abowds, Paula, will be reeeiving a B.S. in mathematies and eomputing from Notre Dame this Sunday. 
The eldest of the Abowd chil­dmn, John, who once served as Editor-in-Chief of The Observer. began his eareer at Notre Dame in the autumn of 1969. Since then over the past 21 years. only one aeademic year (1976­
77) has laeked an Abowd studying at the University, ae­cording to Hichard Conklin of the Department of Public Helations and Information. 
The Notre Dame Admissions Oflice joked that it automati­cally sent an application yearly to the family. 
"We've all gotten by on stu­dent loans. academic scholar­ships, and summer jobs," said Anthony Abowd, the second oldest who once served as News Editor for The Observer. 
Why did the Abowd children have such a calling to Notre Dame? "Because dad went here. We liked it. It's a good school, and we all had a good idea of what Notre Dame was like before we went there," replied Anthony. 
Richard Abowd. a 1949 Notre Dame alumnus and a research engineer at the Ford Motor Company, and his wife Sara, have sent all 12 of their chil­dren on to higher education, and only three attended schools other than Notre Dame. At one point, the Abowd family had six children in college at the same time, according Conklin. 
All in all, the Abowd offspring have earned 19 degrees in the 21 years they have been in post-secondary education, in­cluding two Ph.D.s, two C.P.A.s, and five master's degrees. Gregory, the third youngest who graduated from Notre Dame in 1986, was a Rhodes scholar who received an M.S. from Oxford in 1988 and is now pursuing a doctorate in philosophy there, according to Conklin. 
"We're a pretty diverse group," said Anthony. The Abowd children have ended up doing everything from teaching economics at Cornell to owning a music store. 
The Notre Dame Abowds have lived in nine different resi­dence halls and figure they have eaten more than 13,000 meals in the campus dining halls, attended Sunday Mass about 1,100 times, and cheered at about 200 football games. 

The Abowd children, in chronological order, are John and Anthony, both ND gradu­ates, followed by David who went to Sacred Heart, Elizabeth who went to Marygrove in Detroit, Marypat who went to the University of Michigan, and James, Rosemary, Michelle, Stephen, Gregory, Peter, and Paula,all NO graduates. 
Is Notre Dan1e another Eden, a den1i-paradise? 
For a full twenty years now, I've bnen intruding on the pri­vacy of the God who dwells alorw. In Junn 1970, I started to write for the Observer, and in the fall of that year, I began to turn out this weekly eolumn. which has been published ever sinee then without a brnak. I've tried dozens of times to describe the impression Notre Dame leaves on me. or on the alums who come baek, or on the seniors who are graduating. I ean tell you how thn plaee affnets all of us; but I ean 't tell you why it afTeets us. agreeably or otherwise. quite so powerfully. 
Afh~r twenty years. I have the itrh to dnseribe this emerald ienberg one more time, before the plaet~ is spoiled and cor­ruptnd by money, and is changnd forever into a less per­sonal and less graceful plaee. Maybe thnre's a blueprint of Notre DamP as it exists in God's llliml that lie shows us wlwn wn're drnaming. 
Maybe Notre Dame has a destiny in store for it as Our Lady's University that we can only dimly foresee as we move through the shadowlands in search of a plaee in the sun, where shadows become sub­stance. Perhaps there is no road into the future that is not paved with gold; therefore as I>omers. we should not be em­barrassed or nervous about the temporal prosperity that is coming our way. Still, we should stay in touch with our roots for as long as we can re­member them, and trace them on paper. in words we ean turn to when we start wondering whllre we're coming from. 
Shakllspllare described his damp island as "This other Ednn, demi-paradise ...this lit­tle world...This blessed plot, this earth...Henowned...as is the sepulchre of the world's ransom. blessed Mary's son. This land of such dear souls, this dear, dear land. Dear for her reputation throughout the world..." 
Visitors, discovering Notre Dame as Mary's dowry, go home, touting the campus as another Eden. demi-paradise, and the rest; their praise keeps sent to Father Sorin by Empress Eugenic, wife of Napolean III, to be placed on the head of Mary's statue on the Golden Dome. has never been used. It's kept in the sacristy of Sacred Heart Church, under a glass as a museum piece. 
What need does the patron of American students have of a crown? Mary. for us. is Our Lady, God's Mother, whom we celebrate on all her feastdays. As our intercessor, she's not an embarrassment, getting in Christ's way by demanding our most intense devotions, as though neglect of her were a mortal sin, until we would hardly have time left to pray to her Son. 
Football at Notre Dame would have more charm to it, if it were played like a religious devotion, in the spirit of the juggler. That's why Gerry Faust had such great appeal as a coach: he was the juggler who tried to please Our Lady with his bag of tricks. The Gipper was Our Lady's juggler, though perhaps he was not conscious of it; and he was rewarded on his deathbed with the gift of faith. 
The lovely Lady chapels at­tached to the mediaeval cathe­drals in France were built by the merchants, so Henry Adams tells us, as tourist attractions, which devout Catholics could go on pilgrimages to see. When the Lady chapels didn't produce the hoped-for revenues, the merchants became surly and turned anti-clerical. Could football at Notre Dame ever turn out to be, like those French Lady chapels, the tail trying to wag the dog? 
The fans who show up for the football games could get the idea that Notre Dame is an mindless as a movie script writ­ten in Hollywood. Parents who belong to the Establishment send their sons here to be trained as straight-arrows who could be recruited, if they wanted to be, by the FBI. Notre Dame was better off, those parents think, before their daughters came here as sex objects distracting the campus. "But golden girls and lads all musV As chimney-sweepers. 

come to dust"; and if they enroll at Notre Dame, they hate being stereotyped as model Catholics, and they hate the rules which seem designed to make them measure up as stereotypes. 
Sometimes. parents and students alike resist the idea of Notre Dame as a think-tank for the Church in America. The students feel that this means that they are officially forbidden to dream dreams that don't have the Pope's imprimatur on them. To the parents, academic freedom sound dangerous and fruity with heresy. 
Nevertheless, despite the stresses that keep showing up in a university that is so offi­cially religious, the students manage to survive until gradu­ation with dignity. grace and self-respect. They tend to turn out well, to the surprise and delight of their parents, who wenm't sun~ that they should turn out at all. Even tlw graduates who leave here on Commencement Day, simmering with anger, find that their anger eventually grows cold. Amnesia, as a gift of God's mercy, sets in. helping them forget the bad days, and remember mostly the good days, when they started lifelong friendships. 
Maybe trauma is what is sup­posed to happen, when you're getting a worthwhile education. Notre Dame must do its best to see that the Catholic traumas don't leave the victims alienated from God for a lifetime. On the other h.md, a Catholic conscience, with a diploma certifying it, is a good thing to leave here with, even if a conscience, spoon-fed on Catholic myth, does leave you restless. anxious about the state of your soul. 
Maybe after all these years as an alumnus who writes letters to God, I still haven't got the picture straight. That only means that God hasn't finished with me yet as a member of the Class of '49. Will the new graduates come back and give me the benefitof their life expe­riences? Please God they will not spoil us when they leave Notre Dam<' their millions. 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

Notre Dame is. like the Ireland they write songs about, a bit of heaven on earth, this doesn't mean that the plaee hasn't fallen from original grace, like the rest of the country. All America was Eden when the white man came; paradise was lost, wrote Faulkner, when the early settlers started to abuse the Indians, and bring over slaves. Refore Sorin and the Holy Cross brothers settled on the shores of St. Mary's lake, the Potawatamies were here, friendly to Father Badin, who died in their company. At some point in their history, they were driven off the land, though this meant disintering the dead resting in the tribal burial plots. Tragically, their exodus turned into a death march. 
If we boast of standing on holy ground at Notre Dame, it's because the land has been re­deemed by the sufferings of the pioneers who tamed the wilder­ness; and it must continue to be redeemed, as long as we com­mit sins daily. If you want to credit Notre Dame with an up­beat mystique, you should re­member that the campus did not become Camelot through an act of magic which exempts Our Lady's children from the uncertainties of the human condition. 
The cemeteries show us a history-written tersely in the birth-dates and death-dates that are carved in stone-of seminarians, students and priests. and Holy Cross sisters and brothers, who died young. The casualty list of the maimed and the dead extends back to Sorin's day when unruly minims were sent down to the lake to make bricks without straw, for the good of their souls. Every wall to which the ivy clings has served its turn as a wailing wall damp with blood, sweat and tears. Socrates, condemned for impiety, learned when he was old that the groves 

of roses. 

The lad from "The Dead Poet's Society" was green in judgement as a preppie, when he made his tragic choice, after running into a road block which is apt to be there, more or less, for all of us. Going home one night like Richard Corey, he put a bullet through his head. 
As part of the real world, Notre Dame has not survived without its own chapters of sorrow; if it were otherwise, the place would be Never-Never Land, where Peter Pan lives with the boys who don't want to grow up. The fans who believe that Notre Dame exists primarily to win football games are as mistaken as the Catholics who think Notre Dame exists so that the stu­dents can attend Mass and light candles at the Grotto. nothing embarrasses students in touch with the real world more than to read the press notices which praise Notre Dame to the sky as a football factory that turns out champions whose destiny is to play on Number One teams. Or, as an angel factory that turns out muscular Christians nourished on milk laced with raven's blood, to save them from being wimps who resist the truths that make men free, and challenge their teachers in order to keep them honest as Christian scholars. 
Religion is at its best at Notre Dame when it's light hearted and joyous, as in the legend of the juggler of Our Lady, which could serve us as a paradigm. The juggler offers God's Mother a performance in which he shows her his skills, as a gift to her on her feast day. It turns out to be the gift that pleases her even more than the jewels of the madonna which the king has brought to her altar. At Notre Dame, Our Lady is not the autocrat seen by visionaries, presenting herself as a queen. The royal crown 
-~-~ ~-­
page 12 The Observer Friday, May 18, 1990 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the. Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 

4 OR 5 BEDROOM HOUSE HELP! LAW STUDENT LOOKING FOR GOOD LUCK Brian, John, B, To Scott Neilson: AVAILABLE 1990-91 SCHOOL I DESPERATELY NEED 1 OR 2 ROOMMATE IN D.C. THIS FALL. Jimmy, Wally, Beisty, Alex, Tom 
I NOTICES You know that I love you 
YEAR. FURNISHED, WID. CLOSE GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL CALL KATHLEEN AT 1918. and Gerard, and all the other Sorin and you must know tooNeed term papers or resumes TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE PAY CASH. MICHELLE 2677 guys. You, too, Joey. I'll miss you. 
that happiest moments are thosetyped? Call Joanne 287-6005 RENT. 277-0959. 

Love, Kelley spent with youOne Way Chicago to Houston For when we are together and FOR RENT May 24 $40 277-4152 John 
when we are apart HAPPY GRADUATION!! You are first in my thoughts TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE ND GRADUATION TIXS NEEDED: 
Congratulations to PHILIP and first in my HEARTI
DOMERS BOUND 
PRICE NEGOTIABLE Cindy, Mo and Betsy 
******** 
KRAKER, KATHY CUNNINGHAM, -Love, Doreen
FOR 
PLEASE CALL EITHER: • $1 00+ For Individual Tixs SCRABBLE EMIGHOLZ, SOPPY 
TRACIE X4026 OR • $300+ For Two Together Thanks for all the great times! 
PUGETSOUND 
KUHNS, ANNIE SCHWARTZ AND 

LAUREN X4035 Happy graduation! 
GREG MALCOLM, JIM CARRIG, JM, MB, CR. SK, KO,

CALL 272-6117 AND LEAVE A We'll miss you!! 
The Notre Dame Club of 
JOHN WOLFRAM, BILL We've shared lots of laughs, GOING TO NORTHWESTERN MESSAGE WITH HOW MUCH 

Western Washington 
SHERMAN, ROB FITZGERALD, disputes, drinks and even clothing!

Love BetheFOR SUMMER SCHOOL? JOB IN YOU WANT FOR THE TIX OR 
would like to welcome 
DOUG SMITH AND ANY OTHER Thanks for making second EVANSTON/CHICAGO? 1/2 2BDR 

you to the Evergreen 
SENIOR I KNOW, BUT FORGOT semester so much tun! Let's do it APT TO SUBLET, 3 BLKS TO NU, 

TO MENTION! 

State. We can't promise 
rxsPERSONAI.S again next year!
1 TO EL. SARA 1674. 
--YOUR PAL, MOL

you anything except a 
Love your BAMA BABEl good time, and a place 
SUMMER SUBLET START YOUR NEW CAREER Attn: Julie Hoefflin, Patty Piercy, 
to watch the IRISH 
1 Bedroom, Fully Furnished WITH A NEW CAR! Lucy Miller-Thanks for four great 
satellite broadcasts 
Turtle Creek Apartment We have special financing for For Sale: years!!Don't forget "bus To Six, Brach, Ports, Arnie, Zako this fall. 
Price-Negotiable employed graduates. Stereo Speakers geeks,"Freshman Formal. and Tide, Call us lor more info! 206/ 
Call Jeff @277-3998 Call: Gary Erb Stereo Cabinet Texans(Ugh),Halloween Many Nights We Spent At Taylor Kevin Whelan '88 746-6071 
At: Gates Toyota Amp, Equalizer, Phone, Tuner parties. the dances some of us Street 2nd Semester was John Duggan '86 624-1230 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our 237-4999 Tape Deck. never made it to,learning what quite a treat. Beth Toomey '81 248-4330 
N.D. alumnae family for the most Excellent Condition. Price "shifting" meant, the Tequila Of Your Drunk Driving we always Mike PlouH '79 597-6210 
attractive, well-maintained Call271-5681 birthdays, made a fuss apartments on Chicago's North Louii-frozen condoms and everything So Perhaps You'll Always side! Hardwd floors. great closet Give the frog back Pete Marshall else I can't remember!!(but know Remember Us. · space. lndry facils., conveniently Pete Marshall we had fun doing) I'm going to Since you are all leaving we will be 

located to public transp and Going to D.C. for the summer Pete Marshall miss you all a lot-I love you!! blue$$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS! 
shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. or moving there permanently? Congratulations on a Christine But we're sure gonna miss the PANDORA'S BOOKS 
We'd love to hel ou out! D.C. Alumni Club can help you successful four years!!!!!!!!! HELL out of you. 
Corner of ND ave and Howard 
find hous1ng. Call Mike Jones ---Love Kris Love Amy & Kelly233-2342 at (202) 546-7582 (evenings) 
SHIP YOUR BOXES WITH US! Mom, Dad & Kathy Gill-Thanks tor
HEY DIS, do u still search the MAIL BOXES ETC. all you've done for me in the past
DINING HOOM Sf:: I ; I::XCI::LLt:N I LARRY Y ANT IS AN OLD 
JONO, COND. $45 : SMALL DESK $20 OR MAN... LARRY YANTIS AN OLD
classifieds in case u've been 
UPS. Boxes, Shipping Supplies. four years· I know you've put up Get those wings. I'll miss You! 
BEST OFFER. KEVIN 256-2927 spotted in the dining halls again? 
MAN.. .

On S.R. 23, just past Ironwood. with a lot and given up a lot and I Love. Amy
Any luck? Remember, you're my LARRY YANT HAS NO LIFE, and 
277-6245 do appreciate il-l love you!! 
LOVELY HOME -Near ND , 3+br, LARRY Y ANT HAS NO HAIR. 
Christine Murtog,
$69,900, 287 9341/239 5080 LARRY YANT's DAUGHTER IS It's been wild. don't leave me! I
I LOST/FOUND I pal. 
INFINITELY KOOLER THAN HE LOVE YOU! 

1940 GREENOCK IN GARDEN IS... hey dad. thought this would 
LOST -set of KEYS on Sat. April •••••ooREEN BROWN..... Riggs
QUARTERS OF SCOTISDALE catch your eye. happy birthday, 
29th with "Shane" printed on the SEEYA!!!!! 
SUBDIVISION (off Ireland) Observer style. i love you very
key ring. If found please call #1195 Thank you for being such a terrific
$40,000. Two bedroom, 864 much. the one and only 
Going home to BALTIMORE?
and ask for Shane. A.A. You have definately inspired hiag
square feet, built in 1976. OFFSPRING. monabolonga.
Responsible driver needed to us all!
Association fee $55 a month. For
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. bring my car to its new home. 
Love,more information, please contact

ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. Leaving date flexible. Person also The Kids at Regina 4N Carolyn Finney 258-5885 (office)
REWARD. SEAN 2073 needed to share driving on June 7-ANNE, ABEL, AND THOM, Squints(peeps) & Cowie. 
or 291-6291 (home). The 
8 for a free ride anywhere between CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR Thanx for my funniest year under Prudential Joseph C. Dunfee
LOST: Black and gold Seiko Elkhart and Baltimore. Call Matt or GRADUATION!! the Dome. You guys are the 
Realtors.
dress watch on the second Barb at 1-294-3689. WE'LL MISS YOU IN THE FS coolest! -BLA means No floor of the library. Please PJ
OFFICE NEXT YEAR. 

HIAG GOOD LUCK, call Pat x2479 or give to 
1968 NO fully autographed 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO
JOE

library security at the front 
Football

desk. 
JOHN FREEMAN HELENE AND JOHN -THANKS
Parseghan, Theisman, 

Korzo, CMAN: 
I can always count on you. Thanx PLDFOR BEING SUCH AWESOME YIOU ARE ALMOST OVER THE LOST: A Canon Sprint camera 
Hanrathy, Seymour, Gladieux 
for the listening ear and the at Senior Formal. Please call 

Best offers being taken 

FRIENDS!! YOU GUYS ARE THE understanding heart.
Kayat277-8813. Thanks! 
BEST. I'M REALLY GOING TO HILL!
Call 232-1 099 

Mumf MISS YOU GUYS. BEST OF LUCK YOUR PAL, TO THE CLASS OF '90 ­I lost my SEIKO wristwatch 

NEXT YEAR, AND KEEP IN FRITZ both employed andwith black wristband. Maybe 
MUST SELL MATCHING BROWN TOUCH!!! HELENE-SAVE ME A unemployed...you are all equally 
on North Quad. If found Grease,
LOVE SEAT AND CHAIR. CALL DANCE FRI. NITE. THANKS. P.S. THE POPE SAYS HI. special to me and I have loved 
please call Diana x4003 Thanx for 4 wonderful years. We'll
KELLY AT 277 -2980--BEST --JOHN sharing this year with you. Take
always have a special bond OFFER!!" care of yourselves out there.
LOST: Gold Chain Sat. between between us. I pray that we'll remain
HEY PW WOMEN Ill-ELISE, Love ya, Katie "Kareer"
the An Tostal picnic and the Blue the best of friends and at the very
For Sale: Apple lie, monitor, dbl. LAURA, EILEEN, BETSY AND Cath, Mae, Mar & Wis,
and Gold Game. Extreme least stay in touch. Your soul mate, 
disk, wp programs and manuals, JEAN. YOU GUYS ARE REALLY Though things are different, my
Sentimental Value Mumt
hundreds o' games, $500. Greg AND TRULY THE BEST!!! love, prayers. and best wishes for PJ. x1462 THANKS FOR ALL THE FUN you are not -they're always full of HEY HOT THING­
Brenda & Jen-a,

TIMES. I'M GOING TO MISS ALL hope and confidence in you and YOU MAKE OUR 
rEWA;~~~"" 
"You guys are the best" I have so

1-WAY Chicago to Houston OF YOU SO MUCH.--SLUGGO are always there for you. Happy HEARTS SING! 
many fond memories that I owe to

May 24 $40 John 277-4152 Grad Day!
NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE you all. Thanx tor being there when 
Love You, Love, Beta. Donna, 
any weekend-ext 1938 it seemed like you were my only 2 
Dawn Michelle. and Molly
COGRATS TO ALL THE friends. I love you both. "What a 
GOING TO PHOENIX? P.S. How 'bout them Cubs?
10 Speed bike.272-6306 OBSERVER ALUMS II scene" 
One-way flight for sale. 
Good luck, we'll miss you. Come PJ O'Hare-Phx., Mon. 5/21, $80
Roommate Wanted back and visit. 
(what a steal!)
Houston/NASA. Share 2 bdrm? Love, Tuts. Herbie and Janice. DOREEN ANN BROWN
To my friends who'll I'll miss very Call Will x2013 or leave message
Call Will283-1474~ Boink & Hubert, much: Thank You for your continued and its yours. Ray-Ray: Best of luck next year, it I glad we become so close over the me!; patronage your senior year. Our
Michelle-move to Florida with Are you going to IU-Biooming-was great getting to know you! R. last 2 years, I'm going to miss you bank statements are going to miss

Maggie-you loser, stop smoking; 
1987 DODGE CARAVAN LE.
ton for grad school? I need a crazy hermaphrodites you.
Dawn-lay back and enjoy Pete; 37,000 MILES, EXCELLENT 
female roommate! Please call me! THE DESTROYER Fleming-kiss a cadaver & kick ass Sincerely, Marriot, Days Inn, CONDITION, AIC, AUTOMATIC, 
Ask for Denise. x2156. at Loyola; Best Western, Lennox House, East
EXTRAS. $10,700 OR BEST Amy­Sue-help me win on a quiz show, Race Inn, & The Signature Inn.
OFFER. CALL JACKIE 239-7308 1'11 bet there's still dozens of guys you JEOPARDY QUEEN; Sarah H.­P.S. Tell Scott Thanks Also! 
OR 259-0584 AFTER 6 PM. eating their hearts out right now! 
ROOMATE NEEDED have the wedding in CT; Laura J­
You're the greatest -have an
SUMMER ONLY HAPPY BIRTHDAY UNCLE SIX,
Ist's talk about pre-marital sex; 18144E STONERIDGE IN awesome summer and brinQ back
OAK HILL CONDOS some good stories from Europe. BRUCE! Love, Anita, Heidi & Val Dan Flynn-did you fix that hole?; HEY HONEY WHO VA TEASING?
WOODBRIDGE CONDO (north of 
FEMALE ONLY P.S. Remember, a little positive Katie 0-what's really going on with See ya at Barnaby's!
toll road off Ironwood) $41 ,900.
PHONE AND LEAVE A MESSAGE attitude goes a long way! him?; Barb D-go to Saks & knock Love, Kelly
One bedroom, 776 square feet,
272-1259 -Rich over a shelf of crystal & see what
built in 1972. Association fee $68 a month. For more information, Congratulations JOE DIMARIA!! 
will happen to you; Theresa H­DEAR COLLEEN -don't drink and kiss;Kelly K-say no
FORRENT please contact Carolyn Finney Good luck next year in Boston; I'll MARK 258-5885 (office) or 291-6291 YOU ARE ONE VERY miss you a lot. I'm looking forward to camp; Angie A.-good luck withe Thanks for being there for me the 
I 
2 BDRM. 2 BATH HOME ON N.D. man;
(home). The Prudential Joseph C. REMARKABLE PERSON! GOOD to our fun trip back to Boston. entire year I Don't work I'll keep the AVE.2 BLKS TO CAMPUS.272-LUCK IN ALL YOU DO FOREVER! Love you, Kelley Katie Kirkpatrick-let's do 
Dunfee Realtors. "Club" open for you. I couldn't have 
6306 LOVE, ROSE lunch;Catherine & Dave-1 hear 
asked for a better brother to helpyou're like rabbits; Katie S·enjoy me through my freshman year.

SUMMER RENTAL. House or THE COUNTRY HARVESTER your sr. year; McKee-hey bimbo; A Happy Graduation! 
FOR SALE:
Rooms.Near campus.272-6306 Lyons-just do it! 
has great grad gifts TB-I'll miss you next year.
Tan, brown, rust tweed pull-out Here's a quote from a book I read Gallagher-get me a designer Love,couch. Excellent condition. Bunk 
Open Friday 12-4 this semester that seems pretty rubber; Sticky pong chows bung; style loft--only used 1 year. Call Your Little SMC Chick, 
Saturday 11-2:30 appropriate about now: "It's still Pete-thanks for letting us use your
Party OH Campus Sheilah
Anne at 277-9281 and leave 
Furn. 4 bdrm. Sand true, no matter how old we are, bed; So Frank, how is Narnia?; 
messaoe. MUST SELL!!!II!!I 
V-ball court, washer/ 
We have CLASS OF '90 Mugs, when we go out into the world, it is Mike-you're not on the bottom of dryer, safe. Bruce : 
sparkle tumblers and sharp ND best to hold hands and stick the list! canvas chairs. together." Rick-do you have any vacancies at GREG
234-3831 or 288-5653 RD Hotel Meyer?; John & Helene­Thanks for being my other big 
LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE when's the wedding?; Matt N-let's brother this year. Are we stillLARGE 5 BR HOUSE 2 BATHS 
needs a ticket for graduation or 
go shopping; Jim's googily over getting married? (j/k)11/2 KITCHENS WET BAR IN she'll beat me into submission with Lizzipoo; Joe, remember you're I'll miss you, Good Luck!
BASEMENT. NEAR ST. JOE her cane. I will give you CASH CHRIS, MATI, SARA, REGIS, and THE LAST SERMON FROM THE hooking up w/Angela this summer; Love,
HOSP. $480 MO. 9M LEASE 271-SECOND FLOOR: 
today for your ticket. CALL X4238 all the rest of youze guys: Thanks Annette-Robotics is here, stop ill; Sheilah0373 and name your price. for teaching me everything that I Congratulations Michael. Thanks 
Margaret-can I come visit you in know today (yes, it is your fault). I'll for sharing the last four years with 
Ireland?; Trip-have you stole any I NEED GRAD TIX do my best to carry out the legacy us. We love you, but there will still 
more girls from Olsen?; Kurt-the #sAn attractive studio in lovely old $$will pay$$ of The Big OH's craziest bunch of be no Old Mill on the Froth. 
are impressive; Mark S-have you Doreen & Scott 
mansion near Notre Dame 283-3536 characters. Love and wet kisses, Love Pa, Ma, Anne and Ellie. 
ever heard us really moan? Thanks for helping me through my
$275-$300 + deposit Herbie. 
Gears-what did you get from your freshman year. I never would have Call 288-8595 PLEASE CALL CRISTINA IF YOU DEAR JULIE, 
Roommate's winnings on the Price made it without you two. I hope all 
ARE SELLING GRADUATION THANKS FOR YOUR SUPPORT, is Right? Scott has a big, thick d---goes well with you two in the 
FOR RENT TICKETS 283-2986. SMILES AND A FUN YEAR 
! future! 
Furnished apt-like rooms, air, DJW, TOGETHER. I WISH YOU THE Good luck in the future! Never lose HAPPY GRADUATION! 
kitchen, 5 mins, N. campus NEED GRADUATION TIX-TOP $ CONGRATULATIONS! BEST IN EVERYTHING! Love,
touch! Love to all of you always­272-0615 CALL #2059-JOHN All my love, TL T LOVE, ROSE 
Doreen Maggie 
.........,.4~. .. ,.. ,~·-~4 .. ·............... '.' 

Friday, May 18, 1990 The Observer page 13 

The Observer/Adrew McCloskey 
Tourney time 
The Notre Dame baseball team is currently pursuing its second consecutive Midwestern Collegiate Conference title at Coveleski Stadium. The action continues today and Saturday. 
Emotions high at Indy in May 
EI>ITOH'S NOTE-This is part of a seriPs of first-pPrson columns by Wam-owners with cars entered in thP May 27 Indianapolis 500. This column hy Hil'k CallPs, co-ownPr and gerw ral manager of Gall ns­Kraro Hacing. deals with tlw Pnrotions ol' May at Indy. 
INI>IANAPOLIS (APJ-I don't think anybody ran h1~ suc1:1~ssful without being emotional and IH~ing something of an 11X­trovert. 
This is essPntially true in Indy-car racing. Putting to­gethPr a championship caliber race tmun requirns thn blending ol' many types of people with many types of talent. 
What we do. and what the drivers do, is dang1~rous. But the enwtion involved in racing is not so much connected with tlw danger, hut in dedicating yoursdf to the preparation of a world class racing efl'ort. 
I think any coach or leader of an organization must utilize and translate his emotion into positive things. There an~ times I act like I'm r11ally upset with the race oflicials, but I'm really just trying to get something done. 
In tough situations it's im­portant that tlw l•~ader of the team controls himself so that his people -in a time of need -can depend on him. 
As far as emotion during the race. well. I'm a pretty good actor. 
The most emotional moment I've ever had in Indy-ear racing. as you might expect, was the final 10 laps of last year's Indy 500. Our race plan worked perfeetly and Little AI (AI UnsPr Jr.) was in position to lead the raee in the final 10 laps. 
lin did take the lead and two laps bPfore the end I was con­vineed Galles Racing was going to bP the Indy 500 champion. 
Half a lap later. we were in the fence, our car was trashed. Luckily, our driver was unhurt. We went from an unbelieveable high to an incredible low in about 60 snconds. 
But, at that moment, the first thing I did was call AI on the radio and see if he was all right. He said, 'Sure boss, I'm line.' 
Nothing is more important than the safety of my people. And in a situation like that, if Al's OK and the crew is OK, then everything else will take earn of itself. 
I think one of the most over­looked things in the world is the rae~ team beyond the drivers. 
At Galles-Kraco, our motto is "No one is bigger than the team." Not me, not my partner Maury Kraines, not our drivers, Litle AI and Bobby Hahal, and anybody else. 
Working with people, seeing them grow and develop, is my favorite thing about being in­volved in a professional sport like Indy-car racing. 
Racing at this level, in the Indianapolis 500, requires both talent and hard work by every­body. It's important you people know you care -both about them as individuals and about the team as a unit. I want the people on this race team and in my other businesses to feel good about themselves. Happy people are dedicated people. 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
SHIRTS SWEATERS UMBRELLAS BALLS JACKETS HEADWEAR SLACKS 
GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS GRADUATION FATHER'SDAY BIRTHDAYS 
OPEN 6:30AM-7:00PM DAILY 6:00AM ON WEEKENDS 
DiLucia makes it, but Irish ignored 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Sophomore David DiLucia will open play next week in the NCAA tennis championships. 
This will be the second consecutive trip to the tour­ney for DiLucia, who finished the season ranked 23rd with a 31-11 record. 
The top doubles combina­tion of DiLucia and senior Mike Wallace did not make the tourney because of a cap on the total number of par­ticipants, despite a rceord of 13-3 and a final ranking of 11th in the nation. 
The duo of DiLucia and Wallace will serve as second alternate at the champi­onships. 
The Irish team did not re­ceive a bid to the tourney after a 24-4 season and a 16th ranking in the country. Northwestern received the automatic regional bid, and the selection committee then overlooked Notre Dame in picking the remainder of the 20-team field. 

DiLueia has the talent to make a good showing in the singles draw. lie should open next Wednesday following some preliminary matches on Tuesday. 
DiLucia beat current No. 5 player AI Parker of Georgia during the spring season. lie also has wins over No. 13 Joby Folny of West Virginia. No. 15 Gilles Amnlime of Wake Forest, No. 19 David Kass of Michigan, No. 29 Ty Tucker of Ohio State and No. 32 Louis Huette of Texas Christian. 
DiLueia has beaten the top two players -Todd Martin of Northwestern and Jonathan Stack of Stanford -in sum­mer tourneys. 
"I think that on any given day, he is capable of bnating anybody in the tourney," Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. "Whether he can win the tourney, I don't know. This has been called one of the hardest tourneys in the world to win." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Notre Dame track team will send 15 representatives to the IC4A outdoor championships at Yale University May 17-20. Competing will be Pat Kearns, Niek Hadkewich and Mike Drake in the 10,000, Mike O'Connor in the 5000, Mike Hogan in the 1500, John Cole and Paul Maloney in the high jump, Tony Smith in the discus throw, Jeff Smith in the long jump, Matt DeAngelis, Ryan Milhalko and Jon Stewart in the javelin, John Coyle in the :3000 steepleehase and the 5000. 
Notre Dame was among 12 members of the Colleg1~ Football Association cited for the highest graduation rates of football players in a five-year period ending with the 19HH-89 academic year. Duke won the award having 24 of 25 players graduate for 96 percent. Notre Dame had 14 of 15 players graduate for 93 percent. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­
The Nation's Number One 
Child Health Problem. 
~ Supportthe 

~ Ma!~~LQ![res 
-----~~u~;~;;·;;~;-1 
10% 
AND LOfS OF TIME­
Let us pack and ship your 
belongings back home for the 
summer, or to wherever your 
new career leads vou! 
NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALL! 
=8DXE5/ill5== 
SHIPPiNG + PACKING + CRATING 
MOV!NG & SWHAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PLEASE PRESENT THIS 
COUPON AT THE nue OF 
PURCHASE OR SHIPPING 
M-F 9AM -7PM SAT lOAM-7PM

277-5555 
SUN NOON · 5:30PM Between T.J. Maxx and Venture 
, I 


page 14 The Observer Friday, May 18, 1990 

Berticelli named new soccer coach 
Special to The Observer 
Mike Berticelli, the head men's soccer coach at Old Dominion the last six years and previously coach of two NCAA Division III national champi­onship teams at North Carolina Greensboro, has been named men's soccer coach at Notre Dame. 
Berticelli brings 14 years of experience with him to his fourth stop as a head coach in the collegiate ranks. He also brings along the reputation as a coach who builds programs into national contenders. 
In six years at Old Dominion, Berticelli's teams compiled a 76-27-16 (.706) record to go along with a 70-9-5 (.863) mark in four years (1980-83) at North Carolina Greensboro and a 44­18-2 (. 703) record in four years (1976-79) at Thomas College (Maine). His 14-year career record stands at 190-54-23 (.755). 
Berticelli, who has received assorted coach of the year honors in nine different sea­sons, drew national attention for leading UNC Greensboro to back-to-hack NCAA Division III national titles in 1982 nad 1983. Prior to his arrival in 1980, the Spartans had losing seasons in seven of their first nine campaigns. 
When he arrived at Old Dominion in 1984, Berticelli in­herited a program that had just one winning season in its previ­ous three years and a team that had lost eight starters. The Monarchs overcame those ob­stacles and posted a 12-9-1 record and earned Berticelli Sun Belt Conference coach of the year honors. The following season ODU posted a school record for wins with a 16-1-3 record, including a victory over nationally-ranked Virginia to 
Sutcliffe may return Aug.1 from injury 
CHICAGO (AP) -Chicago Cubs pitcher Rick Sutcliffe says he's aiming to be back on the mound by Aug. 1, despite a shoulder problem that required surgery about a week ago. 
"I think I can come back and be 100 percent," said Sutcliffe, trying to douse speculation that his career may be over. 
Sutcliffe. who underwent surgery May 7 to repair torn cartilage behind his right shoulder. said his doctor agrees there is a chance he can recover by Aug. 1. 
The most important part of his recovery "is doing what I am doing now -resting," Sutcliffe said at a Wrigley Field news conference. 
And once the cartilage is healed, he said, "it's just a guessing game as to how long it will take to get my range in motion and get my strength back." 
Volunteer. 
t 
~American Heart ~Association 
end the Cavaliers' 44-game home winning streak. That squad established 16 school records and produced a pair of All-Americans and three play­ers who were selected in the professional soccer draft. 
In 1986, Berticelli's squad, which consisted of 11 fresh­men, 10 sophomores, three ju­niors and no seniors, went 13­5-3 and was ranked 10th naitonally. The season was highlighted by a 1-0 upset of top-ranked Evansville, a mem­ber of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, on the Purple Aces' home field. 
Old Dominion continued its growth in 1987 by capturing the tough Sun Belt Conference championship en route to a 14­3-2 record. His 1988 squad posted an 11-5-3 record. Last season, thfl Monarchs made their first appearance in the NCAA Tournament after win­ning the Sun Belt champi­onship. Old Dominion, ranked 19th nationally, fell at fourth­ranked Wake Forest 2-1 in a first-round contest and finished the season 10-4-4. 
A native of Lewiston, Maine, he earned his bachelor of science in English in 1973 from the University of Maine where he also played as a goalkeeper on the soccer squad. He ob­tained his master of science de­gree in physical education from the University of Maine at Orono in 1976. 
He has won many coaching awards in his career, high­lighted by beng named the NCAA Division III coach of the year in 1982 following his first national title at UNC­Greensboro. He was the New England coach of the year in 1977, '78 and '79 and was awarded the same distinction in the Dixie Conference in 1980 '81 and '83. He won Sun Belt coach of the year honors in 1984 and '89. 

We've enjoyed your "accent" Congratulations Joel! 
:\i~· 
Thanks for the memories Love, Mom and Dad "to be continued .... " 
Spring 
continued from page 20 
NFL draft. 
"If we were to start tomor­row," Holtz said, "you've got to look at Culver at fullback. But Spears also made a good im­pression." 
The offensive line was plagued by inconsistent play in the spring scrimmages, but problems with timing, tech­nique and execution are ex­pected this time of year. 
Center and quad-captain Mike Heldt missed all of spring practice due to a dislocated elbow injured in last season's Orange Bowl. Three other linemen from last season's 12­1 squad were taken in the NFL draft, leaving quick guard Tim Ryan as the only returning starter on the offensive line. 
"The offensive line will be okay in the fall," Holtz said. "We still have some concerns about that. Tight tackle Justin Hall and (tight guard) Mirko Jurkovic came of age. We're going to be able to run the ball, but we have to be more consis­tent." 
Gene McGuire has filled in at center in Heldt's absence, but he will probably be moved to another position on the line if and when Heldt returns in the fall. 
"Gene McGuire could move to split tackle or somewhere else," Holtz said. "You can't keep Heldt on the bench." 
Defensively, the story of the spring has been the return of linebacker Michael Stonebre(lker and defensive tackle George "Boo" Williams to the lineup after a year of ineligibility. 
Williams, nose tackle and quad-captain Chris Zorich, and tackle Bob Dahl make up per­haps the most imposing defen­sive front in collegiate football, which explains a great deal about the early problems expe­rienced by the offensive line. Eric Jones, who has caught Holtz's eye on several occa­sions, should pressure Dahl at the tackle spot. 
Stonebreaker's play improved significantly throughout the spring, culminating in a six-
BLACKWOOD APARTMENTS 
. Affordable Rent with Heat Included . Great E. Jefferson Blvd. Location . Friendly Community Atmosphere . 9 Month Student Leases 
Call288-2597 for Further Information on 1 and 2 Bedrooms Starting at $340. 
Dorland Group Property @ Managed by Dorenkamper ·--
fii'PIIIIwn 
~~·<t t6 
dttJ ~, 
~·<t 
eued 4 
e~ 

tackle (five unassisted) perfor­mance in the Blue-Gold game, for which he earned Defensive Player of the Game honors. 
"It was nice to see Michael Stonebreaker play so well in his first game back in front of a crowd," Holtz said. "If we played today, Stonebreaker would start at inside linebacker with Donn Grimm and Demetrius DuBose. Du Bose really put himself into a posi­tion to start at the inside linebacker position." 
The defensive secondary, a big question mark entering the spring, had to replace three of four starters. Consensus All­American Todd Lyght returns at cornerback, but Rod Smith, George Poorman and Greg Davis are all first-time starters. 
Poorman, slated for the starting free safety spot, also worked briefly at quarterback this spring to add some depth to the position. A splendid per­formance in the Blue-Gold game in which he blocked a punt and stole a flea-flicker pass from Ismail should keep Poorman on the defensive side of the ball. 

100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA Ftahlriatj Frillay night MCdood. llaflel~~~~s ·;::•c~~ aad SuDday llnmchSEAFOOD .­~ 219-259-9925 ug~  
Chinese, Vietnamese and American Food Fresh Ingredients 6.329 University Commons No Mass Productions South Bend IN 272-6702  


~~--~-~----­

TIME IS RUNNING OUT!!! 
SUPERSPORT 286 *80286 Processor *1MB RAM *12 or 6 MHz *20 or 40 M B Fixed Drive *1.4MB "Media Sensing" 
720 K Floppy Drive *690 x 400 pixel backlit screen *Microsoft windows 286 *Word Perfect 5.1 
2DAYS 
less than 6 HQUAS 
TXrf\\1' kl If \1 I' 
.. •• I ·• I • 'I 
~-­

t,~~ ~·S 
,:;:)-,-~~I 1~1 iII,,_ 
"""1::.~.:;-·,·.-· ..·..·,•.·,,-.......~Miif"f't\ 
.··R.·~_;··~·.·.·.·.·.·,~~~~:i~,\ \,\ ~ 
Z-286 LP *80386 Processor *1MB RAM *8 MHz *20 or 40 MB Fixed Drive *1.4MB "Media Sensing" 
720 K Floppy Disk *Microsoft windows 286 *Microsoft mouse *Word Perfect 5.1 
SUPERSPORT SX 
*80386 SX Processor 
*1MB RAM 
*16 MHz 
*40 or 100MB Fixed Drive 
*VGA Backlit Monitor with 16 shades 
of grey 
*Microsoft windows 386 
*Word Perfect 5.1 
until SUMMER VACATION, but 
to save45o/o on a Zenith computer with the student discount 


Z-386 SX *80386 SX Processor *2MB RAM *16 MHz 
*40 or 80 M B Fixed Drive *Microsoft Windows 386 *Microsoft mouse *Word Perfect 5.1 
TO ORDER, VISIT THE MICROCOMPUTER STORE IN ROOM 25 COMPUTER/MATH BUILDING BEFORE5 PM TODAY! 
t .. ,.~ I •• ~~-~·····~ j _J! .·,·,.·~•.r,."'llo .. ·.•:..·~ .~~·... ~· .. • •' 
f. I,. I. f • 

---------------------------~--------­
page 16 The Observer Friday, May 18, 1990 
Winfield finally joins Angels 
Iowa downs Ohio State in tourney 

Men's golf, softball teams land high school recruits 
Graduation Wk'end Liturgy Schedule Campus Ministry -OFFICE OF Notre Dame(?MPUSMINISTRY • Main Church closedfor repairs Llnivtrsny of NOlTe Dome No~e Dome. IN 46556 May 19 & 20, 1990 ~t:oncwll219·2l8·1SJI! ~11011119·13951'1 Graduation Weekend Mass Schedule: !STEPAN CENTER CLOSED FOR THE WEEKEND Joyce A.C.C.: Baccalaureate Mass: 5:00pm Sacred Heart Parish Crypt: SaturdayVlgll Mass: 5:00pm Sunday Masses: 6:00am 7:00am 8:00am 9:30am ll:OOam Sacred Heart Parish Crypt: 4:00-5:00pm Saturday Pnryem Grotto: Rosary 6:45pm Daily  

NEW YORK (AP) -It was, Dave Winfield said, time to move on. 
So, after 10 stormy seasons with George Steinbrenner and the New York Yankees, he did. He agreed to a three-year, $9.1 million contract extension Wednesday night and accepted a trade to the California Angels. 
"I don't know if this is a fitting end because I'd planned to be here a long time," he said. "It just wasn't workable anymore. It was time to go." 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -John DeJarald limited Ohio State to two hits over the last five innings and No. 8 batter Tom Anderson drove in the go-ahead run, sending Iowa to a 6-4 victory in the Big Ten Conference tournament Thursday. 
Iowa, the regular season league champion, fell behind 4­3 after blowing a 3-0 lead, then rallied for two runs in the sixth 
Observer Staff Report 
Rick Coddens of South Bend Riley High School, has signed a letter of intent to attend Notre Dame on a golf scholarship. 
Coddens is a leader on Riley's golf team that is currently rated fifth in the state. He shot a 73 to lead his team to the Kaeppler Invitational crown last month at Morris Park Country Club. 
Coddens helped his team to a La Porte Regional runner-up finish, shooting a 79 in both the sectional and regional levels as a junior. He had an 81 in last year's state final. 
The women's softball team signed four players to letters of intent to enroll at Notre Dame this fall. 
Christy Connoyer, Melissa Cook, Carrie Miller and 
The deal finally completed a trade that was made last Friday and came after a full day of wrangling that included representatives of the Yankees, the players' union, baseball management and the commis­sioner's office. George Nicolau, who was to preside over an ar­bitration hearing on Winfield's contract rights, was present but not needed. 
"It's been an ordeal to a large degree," Winfield said. "Maybe things didn't work out here, but 

to move into a winner's bracket Both games were played in game with Illinois at 3:30 p.m. gale-force winds that blew from Friday. left field to right at 40 to 60 mph. All three home runs hit in 
The Hawkeyes (38-15) won the two games were carried by all four regular season games the wind over the right field with Illinois (39-19), which got fence. 17 hits in an 11-5 victory over Minnesota on Thursday. Iowa's Chris Hatcher home­Minnesota (36-23-1) will play red for an insurance run lead­Ohio State (30-28-1) in an ing off the eighth and also dou­elimination game at noon bled in going 3-for-4. He scored Friday. twice and drove in two runs. 
Stephanie Pinter will play next season for the Irish. 
Connoyer played shortstop at Civic Memorial High in Bethalto, Ill., leading her team to two regional crowns and a 10-3 mark so far this spring. Cook, a shortstop from Merrillville, Ind., had a .350 batting average with 29 RBI over three seasons and earned honorable mention all-state honors as a junior. 
Miller, a pitcher from Los Altos, Calif., has helped her team to an 83-28 record over the past four seasons, including a 19-5 mark and top 10 ranking this spring. She has a lifetime record of 39-18 and is hitting .342 this season. 
Pinter, a pitcher from South Bend Saint Joseph's High School, has posted a 3-2 record with 1.50 ERA this spring. 

1990 MERCURY COUGAR 
c'>,._" coLLtc( Your college diploma can be worth an easy $500 to you with the purchase of anew f b c\ Mercury. Your local lincoln-Mercury Dealer can take care of the financing arrange­~-~ ments through Ford Credit. To receive $500 cash back from Ford Motor Company. -1-~"~'~"' all you have to do is take delivery of any new Mercury from dealer stock by 
;p'..YAsE r'~--o0~"~' December 31. 1990. or place a factory order by October 1. 1990 and graduate with a~ach~lor's or advanced degree by December 31. 1990 from an accredited 4-year college 
or umvers1ty. Select from Mercury Topaz. Cougar. Sable. Grand Marquis or beginning this summer. the new 1991 Mercury Tracer. You may even be able to use your $500 toward your down payment. So pick the Mercury that best fits your new life-style. and get $500 cash back. See your Lincoln-Mercury Dealer today! 
To qualify lor fo1d Credil preapproved Cledil qualified buyen musl haveverifieblee~ploymenl beginning wiilun 120 days of vehide purr:hm. Your salary musl be sulfictonl to cover hvmg expenses as well at taJ payment. Apr101 cred11 h1story 1sn t necessary. but il you have one. it must mdtcate payments made as agreed. 
COMING THIS SUMMER-1991 MERCURY TRACER! 
SEE YOUR liNCOLN­MERCURY DEALER. 
Quality is Job 1. 

I know they're going to work out in California." 
"Even at 38 years old, I'm a valuable commodity," he said. "You'll end up seeing a good year." 
The 12-time All-Star, who missed the entire 1989 season with back problems, hadn't been doing so well this year. He was batting only .213 with two home runs and six RBis and re­cently was demoted to platoon status. 
Friday, May 18, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Holtz proposes academy for potential professionals 
COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa (AP) -Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz says professional leagues should set up a national system of 10 "academies" for college-age men whose main goal is to play pro sports. 
"Let the pros run 'em," Holtz said Wodnesday. "They'd have a football team, a basketball team, a baseball team. a hockey team, whatever. If you want to be a professional athlete, you go to that academy. 
"You learn how to write a cheek, how to do TV interviews and how to pkk an agent. You lift weights and you play foot­ball. And when the pros say, 'We don't think you have a chanco to become a profes­sional athlete,' you are dis­missnd from the academy. Now you gnt on with your life." 
Prnparing people for pro 
sports, Holtz said, is not the role of universities. 
"That's not what college ath­letics is all about," he said. "W~.'re there to educate peo­ple. 
Holtz spoke at a news confer­ence at Children's Square U.S.A., the former Christian Home in Council Bluffs. Later he received one of the home's three "Jason Awards" at a din­ner at Peony Park in Omaha. 
Holtz said he is opposed to a playoff to determine the NCAA Division I football champion because it would intrude on academics, and is against pay­ing stipends to players -even though "I understand that's not the most popular thing to say in Nebraska, because Nebraska is one of the principal leaders in that fight to give them a stipend." 

Lou Holtz 
Financially needy athletes, he said, qualify for a federal Pell Grant of up to $1,400 per year. Holtz said an education is worth a great deal. 
''I'm afraid if you start paying athletes, where do you stop? First it's $100 a month, then $200, then $500." 
Notre Dame has been widely criticized for pulling out of the College Football Association television contract and striking its own deal with NBC. Nebraska and more than 60 other schools, but not the members of the Big Ten or Pac­10, are members of the associ­ation. 
Holtz said Notre Dame in­formed the CFA early on that the Irish wouldn't "automatically" be part of the association's contract. He said he wasn't involved in the deci­sions, but that Notre Dame made the NBC deal so it could "educate people who don't have the monetary resources" to at­tend the school. 
"My understanding is that the overwhelming majority of those millions will go to scholarships for the needy. This wasn't an 

National Championship, but
lasted through the Fiesta Bowl. 
there was a time when a spot in And what a time it was in
Kelly Gargee
the Orange Bowl was justTempe, as the brash Major 
wishful thinking. 
continued from page 20 Harris brought the undefeated continued from page 20 
But the moment to top all mo­and third-ranked West Virginia ments, the brief seconds that
Mountaineers into Sun Devil
another unforgettable moment. previous season and recorded
will speak for our four years at
That's why we came to Notre Stadium to try to claim the na­back-to-hack 20-win seasons,
Notre Dame, had to be when
Dame. tional title. Notre Dame's Tony leading the Irish to the women's 
Pat Terrell knocked down Steve 
L1~t's face it. We came for Hice outshone the highly-touted NIT in 1989. But she may have
Walsh's pass in the end zone toHarris in the showdown that
football. It sure wasn't the turned in her best coaching
preserve Notre Dame's 31-30
sodallife. cemented the National performance this season.
home victory over the dreaded
.lust by showing up at Notre Championship. With only eight players on the
Miami Hurricanes. The
Dame, Holtz gave us a new Think way back to November roster for the vast majority of
swaggering 'Canes and the
of freshman year, when we saw,
start. And before long, Wfl wflrfl the season, McGraw's team still
upstart Irish were the cream of
or rather heard about, John
witnnssing the best players, the posted a 23-6 record, winning
the crop in 1988, but Notre
Carney's last-second field goal
rowdiest crowds, the biggest its last 12 games. Like the
Dame prevailed in the game
that propelled the Irish to a 38­
hype, the most attention. and tennis team, the women's
that was more important than
the best team in college 37 win over Southern Cal. It basketball squad was left
the National Championship,
was a great moment, one that
football. We saw teams whose without an NCAA Tournament 
more important than any of the spoke well for the future of the 
entire season could be made if berth.
49 games we witnessed.
football program and gave usthey IHlat Notre Dame get Lou Holtz gave us a 37-12
spanked and sent horne to hope for the next year. Too bad Murphy may have pulled off
record in four years, something
supper. No one has more arch we were watching a station the biggest turnaround of them 
we may not have thought
rivals that Notre Dame. break at the time. all. The 28-year-old rookie
possible in the early 80s.So,
Diminutive Heggie llo kicked There was also the 1990 coach led the Irish to their first 
whenever strains of the fight
Orange Bowl. when both
off the National Championship winning season in eight years
song and the alma mater (that
drive with four field goals to Colorado and Notre Dame during the spring of 1988. The 
you never learned the words to) 
lead Notre Dame past sputtered offensively at the following year, the Irish were outset before the Irish took go wafting through your now­playing in the NCAA
Michigan under the lights at enlightened brain, you'll always control and beat the Buffaloes
the stadium. The positive Tournament for the first time
remember one thing ... how cold21-6. This moment was short­
attitude that game instilled since 1970. 
it was in the Stadium in
lived as Miami took the 

Graduates... 
Just because you're leaving ND/SMC, doesn't mean you have to lose touch. 
Subscribe to The Observer, the 
independent student newspaper serving the 
Sports 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community.
Notre Dame stays unbeaten with two wins 
!ilo~dfOWnl ,_,boottlniiiiiiOI·D ~oiTrOjatlupUI 1f11r wt~•k ol advtrtrl~ 
~-"'"r:"""' 

Send to: Enclosed is The Observer $25 for one semester 
. ".·.. '-...·~ ·;~~ 
'~ • "t"iJ.,.• 
P.O. Box Q $40 for the school year 
• .,.., • .. 0. :'!o 
., '. ." '.
. """"""'· 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

The Observer has proudly served the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's community since 1966. 
athletic department decision. This enables us to educate peo­ple a little better." 
Another factor, he said, is that 47 of the 52 games in the CFA television contract were to be regional games, and Notre Dame has a national audience. 
Opponents will do well finan­cially, he said. "Everybody who plays the University of Notre Dame will take home $600,000 to $700,000 in addition to their share of the gate receipts." 
Holtz also said he opposes efforts to eliminate spring football practice. 
"The worst thing we can do is dismiss spring practice," he said. "That is the time when you have the opportunity to work and develop and improve everybody. Coaches have the opportunity to develop a rela­tionship and rapport with play-
To reach the tournament, the Irish had to win four consecutive games during a 22­hour span -including one contest that started at 1:30 a.m. -to win the Midwestern Collegiate Conference title. Murphy, the lifelong lover of Notre Dame who couldn't at­tend the school as a student, had created his own "Notre Dame moment." 
Schafer had been a student at Notre Dame, where he also starred for the hockey team. Since leaving, he had coached in Alaska and watched his alma mater's hockey program go to pieces. 
When longtime coach Lefty Smith retired after the 1986-87 season, Schafer pursued the job and finally won himself the position. He took advantage of a creampuff schedule and his own marketing skills to direct the Irish to a best-ever 27-4-2 record and put fans back in the stands during the 1987-88 seasons. 
Schafer still is trying to build the hockey program to the status it enjoyed a decade ago and now is working with limited scholarships and a strengthened schedule. 
Those four coaches are not the only ones who have helped make the University's athletic program more well-rounded. Second-year coach Kevin Corrigan's lacrosse team earned its first berth to the NCAA Tournament this spring, and Art Lambert helped the volleyball squad reach the Final 16 of the NCAAs in 1988. Former men's soccer coach Dennis Grace's squad also made the NCAAs in 1988. Veteran men's cross country coach Joe Piane led his team to consecutive Top 10 finishes in 1987 and 1988. 
In addition, the women's tennis team has seen Tracy Barton and CeCe Cahill make the NCAAs, the women's swim team had Tanya Williams and Becky Wood reach nationals, and Pat Boyd was an All­American in wrestling. 
And of course, the fencing teams continue to be national powers every year. 
In the meantime, Notre Dame has ;nade a mockery out of the MCC, the conference it joined in 1987. Since gaining member.,hip into the confer­ence, the Irish have dominated the league in virtually every sport. 
Now students have no more excuses when they think their school's athletic program consists entirely of football and basketball. 

---.-~----------------~-----­
Friday, May 18, 1990

page 18 The Observer 

AP Photo 

Drivers slow down as time trials near 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Speed was hard to come by Thursday as practice resumed for the Indianapolis 500. 
The track was open for a full day of practice for the first time since Monday. The rain that had closed down the track for all of Tuesday and all but 45 minutes of caution-flag running Wednesday was finally gone. 
But a steady, often gusty, wind blew out of the west, hampering the on-track activi­ties as drivers prepared for the resumption of qualifications on Saturday or worked on getting their cars ready for the May 27 race. 
"We had a couple of days of rain and now it's windy," said Dominic Dobson, one of 15 drivers already qualified for the tentative 33-car lineup. "That makes it hard to get anything done. 
"Wind makes cars unpre­dictable. If you are not careful, you can end up chasing your setup.... It's especially danger­ous on the turns when the wind hits you from the side. If can get under your sidepods and lift you off the ground. They are saying that J.R. (Johnny Rutherford) and (Jim) Crawford's crashes (last week) were attributed to the wind. 
"But we still have Friday, Saturday and Sunday," he added. "If we have a couple of hours of dry time we can go out and get what we need to get done." 
John Andretti, another driver already qualified for the race, ran only a handful of laps in his March-Porsche, getting up to 
208.594 mph late in the day .. 
"There's not much you can learn with that wind out there," Andretti said. "You're just hanging on so much, you can't really get anything accom­plished. 
"You don't want to take any chances out there with a quali-. tied car. In the wind, the car is understeering, it's oversteering, you don't even go straight down the straightaways any more." 
He is currently part of an all­Andretti second row, with cousin Michael on the inside at 
222.055 mph, Uncle Mario in the middle at 222.025, and John on the outside at 219.484. 
"I don't want to sound 
greedy," John Andretti said with a smile, "but I just hope it's like this for the rest of the first-day qualifiers. I think it'll be real hard to run over 220 (mph) in this." 
Rain cut short the first week­end of qualifying, leaving 17 cars eligible to run for the front of the lineup when time trials resume on Saturday. Qualifications are scheduled to wind up Sunday with the fastest 33 cars in the field. 
Mario Andretti, the 1969 Indy winner, turned the fast lap of the day at 218.696 mph in the final minutes of Thursday's practice. Arie Luyendyk, who has not yet qualified, was the fastest driver on the 2 1/2-mile oval Thursday, turning a lap at 217.854, followed by another non-qualified driver, Al Unser Jr., at 216.789. 
Provisional pole winner Emerson Fittipaldi, who set a four-lap qualifying record of 
225.301 mph, was next in his backup car at 215.714. The defending champion was 
IAMERICAN WCANCER 'SOCIETY® 

May means dollars in racing 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -May is the richest month in American racing by far. 
The May 27 Indianapolis 500 is expected to pay out more than $6 million, with the winner earning more than $1 million for the second straight year. 
Last year, Indy paid a total purse of $5,713,725. Winner Emerson Fittipaldi received a check for $1,001,604. 
For the first time, every one of the 33 starters took home more than $100,000. 
Add to those numbers a cool $2 million to be shelled out this month at Charlotte Motor Speedway. 
The Winston, an all-star NASCAR stock car event sched­uled Sunday at Charlotte, has a posted purse of $875,000, with the winner getting a minimum of $200,000. That race follows the Winston Open, another spe­cial event, paying $200,000 and $30,000 to the winner. 
Leading up to the featured Coca-Cola 600 Winston Cup race on the same day as Indy will be two Sportsman class races totalling $55,000 in pay­outs, and the $277,000 Champion Spark Plug 300 Busch Grand National race on May 26. 
Finally, the 600-miler -the longest race on an oval any­where -has total posted awards of $913,000. The win­ner will earn close to $200,000. 
Chevrolet also is having a good month in American rac­ing. 
Dale Earnhardt drove a Chevy Lumina to victory on May 6 in the Winston 500 at Talladega, Ala. That was the anniversary of that model's debut in the NASCAR Winston Cup stock car series. 
Luminas have won 13 of the 30 races they have been entered in since replacing the Monte Carlo -NASCAR's all­time winning car. 
At Indianapolis, the Chevy Indy V8 remains the dominant engine. Cars with that engine swept the front row for this year's Indianapolis 500. 
The Chevrolet engine that was in Bobby Rahal's Lola when he qualified last Sunday for the Indianapolis 500 made an un­scheduled trip to England early last week. 
The Chevy Indy V8 was shipped to Indianapolis to be used in the 1986 Indy winner's qualifying effort, but was knocked off a loading dock by a forklift. Upon arrival at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, crew chief Barry Green discov­ered the block had sustained a hairline crack. 
Galles-Kraco Racing decided to send the otherwise undam­aged engine for repair at the Ilmor Engineering factory in England. With the help of the freight company responsible for the accident -at a cost of about $50,000 -the engine was back in time for Rahal to practice with it Friday night and qualify at 222.694 mph on Sunday. 
Caution flags are often a cause for alarm at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. Sometimes, however, they are a source of amusement. 
In the opening week of prac­tice for the May 27 Indianapolis 500, there were four caution flags brought out by the pres­ence of wildlife on the 2 1/2­mile oval. 
First, last Monday, a mother duck and two of her ducklings, all of them seemingly unper­turbed, waddled down the mid­dle of the track as roaring race cars sped past. The caution flag came out and the ducks were given safe passage back to the infield grass. 
The next day, a rabbit hopped out of the infield and brought a halt to the practice session until he could figure out a way to get under another fence and back to safety. 
Finally, on Wednesday, there were caution periods for two more uncredentialed strollers -first a squirrel and then an­other of the ducklings. 
All of the wildlife survived the dangers of the racetrack. 
Talk about bad luck. Rich Vogler can't seem to catch a break this month. 
On Sunday, Vogler, a short track ace and a five-time starter in the Indianapolis 500, crashed halfway through a four-lap qualifying run for this year's Indy classic. 
At virtually the same moment, according to a friend who was on the phone with someone at nearby Indianapolis Raceway Park, Jeff Gordon, attempting to qualify Vogler's sprint car for a race Sunday night, also hit the wall. 
Vogler walked away from his Indy-car uninjured and will try again this weekend to qualify it for the race, but his sprint car was too badly damaged to run last Sunday . 
Bobby Unser, a three-time Indianapolis 500 winner who retired after the 1981 season, was inducted into the Auto Racing Hall of Fame in Indianapolis, along with the late J.C. Agajanian, a longtime car owner. 
As a living member of the Hall of Fame, Unser's portrait will hang in the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Museum along with those of four-time winner 
A.J. Foyt and three-time win­ners Johnny Rutherford and AI Unser, Bobby's brother. 

CONGRATULATIONS 1990 GRADUATES During your special week of celebration, let Parisi's share with you and yours an authentic Calabrian Italian feast! Enjo~ aleisurely dining experience of specially prepared veals, fish, chicken and pastas cooked by Mama Parisi in the 'old country' style, accompanied by enhancing beverages, appetizers and deserts. Dinners are served in the dining room, 'court' and bocci ball patio from 4 PM Tuesday through Sunday. Reservations are suggested. 
::=:: = (219) 232-4244 
South of Notre Dame s Golden Dome 1412 South Bend A •enue 
One mHe from campus on South Bend Ave. 
Now Offering: 
ONE HOUR PHOTO 
for your graduation weekend needs 
.~ 

Bring in this ad and receive a second set of prints free 2022 South Bend Ave. Fri &Sat. 10-10 
272-4848

(Between Edison and Ironwood) Sun 11-10 
Friday, May 18, 1990 The Observer page 19 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 25 Dull finish 26 Uninhabited
1 Rub against 28 Not random 
6 Martinique peak THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 29 Like Milton after 
11 Nook 


age4312 Oak-tree bounty 31 Two lustra 14 "Keep off" site 34 It's not the main 
17 Bylaws 

event 18 Contents of 
38 Summon up some kits 39 Roads scholar 
19 Toledo treasure 40 Bronze coin of 

20 Some artwork 

Norway 21 Statue base 
41 Composer 22 Egg on Bartok 23 Manipulation 42 Took in visually 24 Tend a furnace 43 London park 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

--~-~illlliJ~~~~~­
II ~ 
-::-t-+::+:-t 
-..~"--+""-! 
-:=+=+~!"!'!" -::-t:'+.:::-t.=:+=-1 
--~~~~~~--u~illl••

II "" 

"Listen, before we take this guy, let me ask you this: You ever kill a flea before, Dawkins? It ain't easy." 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
44 Numero-­45 All, for one 46 Carrying cargo 47 Poste restante 50 Solve a 
cryptogram 51 Septets 52 Mooed 53 Men of ken 
DOWN 
1 Car-rad1ator fronts 2 Talks gibberish 3 Literary snippets 4 Explosive letters 
5 A canine 6 Qualified release 
7 Polytechnique 8 Cuts off 9 Long lead-m 

10 Establishes
firmly 11 "The Color of 
Money" co-star 13 !.ayers 14 AdJective for 
Tarquin

15 Like some books 16 Sing, in a way 21 Thespian's milieu 

t.Nt> 9:>, H~~\NG £MHl H£R •. 'tii-\£Qt. Sill R.~GlJRG\I~"ltS 
FILL, 1\1£ M01\I£R BIRO Tilt. 'HeRMS TO FEEP 1-\ER 
R£1\lRt-lS \0 1-\ER ~ts\ ... lllJt-tGR'1 BROOD. 
THE &P.EAT SALT LAI<;E 
~.~·~.:::.-.:.-:::. 
__.....,. 
........ ....-. -.. ..-.
----,-·.
-~ 
--·--­
.....__ .. _.....-..... 
li's llk:E />.. PAPER &0'(. 
'(0\J K~W I f.,. TIG£R 'rt\i\.1 />.. ~t:.'f.ISPAI'£R ROJT£. 
Slug vacation disasters 
We've brought you the good times ... 

22 Unit of 31 Make 39 Greeted magnet1sm operational 
42 Picnic place 

24 Playground item 32 Equalized 43 Comrade: Heb. 
25 Microwave 33 Pewter or 45 L1ned up
device Potterby of 27 World's Fair city 
comics 46 Jn person 1970 35 Tomboys 48 Environmental 28 Gave up 36 Ranks prefix 30 Portrait 37 Very small 49 Actor Horsley 
BILL WATIERSON 
11-\1':> BOOK MM(ES 
No S~'5E r..T f>..ll. 
'I

...and the bad 
Here's to the good times! Congratulations and Good Luck. 
It has been a pleasure serving you 
-The Observer 
.., 

Sports
page 20 Friday, May 18, 1990 
MCC teams battle for tourney crown 
Observer Staff Report 
The Midwestern Collegiate Conference Tournament will continue today at Coveleski Stadium in downtown South Bend. 
Three games are scheduled for this afternoon and evening. 
The winner of Thursday's late contest between Notre Dame and Butler will play at 6 p.m. tonight against Evansville. The loser of that Notre Dame-Butler game had to play again 

Pat Murphy 

Thursday night against Dayton. The 2 p.m. contest Friday will nior Ed Lund were first team
feature the winner of the 
selections. Sinnes was 9-1 andXavier-Detroit game against the 

among the nation's leaders

late-night Thursday winner. 
with an 0.98 ERA. Lund battedIn opening games Wednesday, .325 and topped the MCC with

Butler downed Xavier S-1, 
18 doubles. 

Detroit beat Dayton 8-4 and The Irish placed six playersEvansville crushed St. Louis 11­on the second team. Topping3. Dayton defeated St. Louis 10­that group were outfielder Eric
6 in 15 innings Thursday 
Danapilis and Frank Jacobs.

afternoon in a completion of a Danapilis led the Irish with asuspended game. Evansville 
.430 batting average, but

downed Detroit 6-4 in the early missed 18 games due to an in­game Thursday. 
jury. Jacobs, a tight end for theThe double elimination tour­Irish football team, hit 10 homeney will end with the champi­runs to top the league and set
onship at 1 p.m. Saturday 
an Irish season record with 43. 

afternoon. 
Freshman pitcher Pat Leahy 

was a second-team pick after By FRANK PASTOR said following the Blue-Gold the Blue-Gold game. Still, hisThe Irish had eight players on compiling an 8-0 record. Associate Sports Editor game. "The guys respond to future remains uncertain. 
the 22-member All-MCC team, Joining Leahy were junior Jake when he's in the huddle. "If we lined up right now, I
and Notre Dame coach Pat 
shortstop Mike Coss, sopho­There's no doubt about that. He don't know where we'd putMurphy was selected Coach of more third baseman Craig Notre Dame head coach Lou has some qualities you really Ricky," said Holtz. "Dorseythe Year. 
Counsell and sophomore first Holtz is high on freshmen quar­like." Levens has had an awfully, aw­The Notre Dame battery of baseman Joe Binkiewicz. terbacks Kevin McDougal and Kelchner was injured when fully good spring. He's made afreshman David Sinnes and se-B.J. Hawkins. But he didn't ex­he was hit by defensive tackle strong bid for the tailback 
pect to see either of them as the Bob Dahl following an positon."ND lacrosse team falls to incomplete pass to flanker
backup to Rick Mirer heading Indeed, Levens was one of the into September's Michigan Adrian Jarrell. On the next biggest surprises of the spring, opener. series, Mirer donned a yellow compiling 415 rushing yards onHarvard in first round Holtz may have no other al­jersey and completed the 63 carries (a 6.6-yard average) ternative now that Jake intrasquad game playing for in the six spring scrimmages. at halftime. Kelchner is expected to be out both teams. His competition for the starting
Special to The Observer 
The Irish fell behind 8-0 with of action for as long as four Mirer should have a talented tailback position might also in­just 11:07 remaining in the months with a fractured clavi­set of receivers to throw to next clude Tony Brooks, who has
The Notre Dame lacrosse 
game before Carey scored the cle suffered in the April 28th fall, including prospective applied for readmission to the
team lost to Harvard 9-3 Wednesday in the first round of first Notre Dame goal of the Blue-Gold game. Reisman trophy candidate university next fall. 
the NCAA Tournament at game. Carey scored again three Mirer, who was named the Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, tight Rodney Culver and Kenny 
minutes later. starting quarterback following end Derek Brown and either Spears comprise a talentedHarvard Stadium. 
After Harvard scored again to the third spring scrimmage, is Ray Griggs, William Pollard or fullback tandem which shouldSenior co-captain Dave Carey 
led the Irish (9-7) with two make it 9-3, Irish senior Brian currently the only healthy quar­Jarrell at split end. help alleviate the loss of 
McHugh passed to an open terback remaining on the Irish Quad-captain Ricky Watters, Anthony Johnson, a second­goals. Junior attackman Mick Mike Quigley, who scored the roster. who saw action at both tailback round selection by the
Cavuoti paced Harvard with three goals and an assist.-final goal of the game. "The most discouraging thing and split end during the 20 Indianapolis Colts' in the recent 
Harvard will play North that happened today was the spring practice sessions,
Harvard jumped to a 3-0 lead 
and then expanded that to 5-0 Carolina in the quarterfinals. injury to Jake Kelchner," Holtz worked out of the backfield in see SPRING I page 14 

Highlighting four years of Notre Dame athletics 
When the When Ellis dunked on Robinson, it was 
.. Notre Dame either a drug-induced hallucination or men's basketball Houston's uniforms got left behind. team came out ("Once they got in those red uniforms, of the locker then it was Houston," said Elmer room to face Bennett cryptically.) Vanderbilt in the Under the tutelage of Lou Holtz and Providence Civic Digger Phelps, the revenue-generating Center in the sports here at Notre Dame have given first round of the Theresa Kelly us some memorable moments. 
NCAA Tour-The basketball team started us off nament on St. Sports Editor on a high note, defeating top-ranked Patrick's Day, Emeritus North Carolina 60-58 on February 1, 1989-in bright --------1987. David Rivers was back in top green uniforms with white trim-now form after an August accident that that was the greatest moment in our nearly cost him his life, scoring all of illustrious four years here at Notre his 14 points in the second half. The Dame. Irish defense held the 18-1 Tar Heels 
No, maybe not. at bay to come back from a 32-16 
Maybe it was the orange that beaned first-half deficit. This, we thought, in baseball coach Pat Murphy in the head the massive on-court celebration that as he stood on the sidelines during the followed, was why we came to Notre Notre Dame-Pitt football game, or Lou Dame. Holtz's famous pep talk before the But there was more to come. After 1990 Orange Bowl. Maybe it was two seasons of basketball success, the Notre Dame-Valpo in December, 1988. Irish hit some hard times in 1989-90, 
Maybe it was when I woke up in the but watching Bennett's buzzer-beater infirmary in February, 1989 to see the stun fourth-ranked Syracuse was see Notre Dame men's basketball team playing well against...Notre Dame. KELLY I page 17 
When we arrived at Notre Dame four years ago, most of us knew little about the athletic de­partment aside from the football and men's 


b a s k e t b a 1 1 Steve teams. To be Megargee rather blunt Associate Sports 
about the 
situation, there _....;;E:....:d;;;.it;:.;;.o;.;..r...;;E:..:r..:..:ll..:;e..;.:ri..;.:tu:;.:s:...__ wasn't need to know much more. Aside from a fencing program that contended for the national title every year, Notre Dame's so-called "Olympic Sports" (i.e. everything but football and men's basketball) were not worthy of any acclaim. The women fencers won the national title and the volleyball team won more than 30 matches our freshman year, but those were all the highlights. Then the University hired four coaches during the summer before our sophomore years. Notre Dame's "Olympic sports" never were the same 
again. 
The quartet of coaches -Bob Bayliss for men's tennis, Muffet McGraw for women's basketball, Pat Murphy for baseball and Ric Schafer for hockey ­came to symbolize the arrival of Notre Dame's athletic program as a complete package. By the time 1990 had arrived, the University's athletic department was recognized across the nation for more than football. 
After replacing Tom Fallon, the le­gendary 35-year coach of the Irish men's tennis program, Bayliss vowed to turn Notre Dame into a national tennis power. Using the Eck Tennis Pavilion as a recruiting tool, Bayliss lured David DiLucia, the nation's top prospect, to South Bend in the spring of 1988. Bayliss also put together a schedule stocked with Top 20 foes. 
His work paid off, as the Irish recorded a 24-4 record this spring and barely missed a bid to the 20-team NCAA Tournament. DiLucia will play in the men's individual competition. 
McGraw inherited a women's bas­ketball team that had finished 12.:15 the 
see GARGEf: I page 17 

I_ 






