
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
-! 

THURSDAY I NOVEMBER 8, 1990
VOL. XXIII NO. 48 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Spare change 
Saint Mary's Sophomore Molly Walsh contributed some money to the Business Club's fund-raising jar. This activity was part of a contest to celebrate National Women's Business Week. 
•


Roemer defeats Hiler 1n 
(AP) -Democrat Timothy Roemer, the first challenger to defeat an Indiana congressional incumbent in a general election since 1982, said Wednesday his victory over GOP Rep. John Hiler resulted from an accumulation of political punches, not a knockout blow. 
"I don't think there was any one issue," Roemer said. 
Hiler largely absolved the Bush administration of any im­portant role in his defeat elec­tion day, but admitted the president's reneging on his campaign tax pledge didn't help. 
"I think we died the death of a thousand nicks," Hiler said. 
Roemer, 34, launched a tele­vision advertising blitz late last month suggesting Hiler may have used his position on the House Banking Committee to benefit the Farmer's State Bank of Wyatt, in which Hiler owns part interest. 
• Election news/ pages 4-5 
Hiler emphasized his opposi­tion to the tax increases in­eluded in the federal budget compromise accepted by Congress and the White House. 
Roemer, 34, a former aide to Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz., won by 2,800 votes in northern Indiana's 3rd District. Roemer was joined in South Bend by his 


Tlm Roemer 

father-in-law, Sen. J. Bennett Johnston Jr., D-La., to await voting returns. 
Hiler, won election in 1980, defeating House Whip John Brademas. He faced strong challenges during off-year elections throughout the 1980s. 
Four years ago, Hiler won re­election by 4 7 votes in a re­count over Democrat Thomas Ward. Hiler charged back in a 1988 rematch when George Bush led the Republican ticket and beat Ward by 18,000 votes. 
The last incumbent House member to lose in Indiana was Republican Joel Deckard, who lost the 8th District seat to Democratic challenger Frank McCloskey. 
Vice President Dan Quayle visited the 3rd District on Mon­day, urging the party faithful to turn out for Hiler. But the 37­


close race 
year-old LaPorte native lost his 
home county by nearly 2,000 votes and polled only 40 per­l 
cent of the vote in St. Joseph j 
j
County. 
j
Indiana's nine other congres­sional incumbents all won re­J election. Winners and losers alike complained of mean-spir­ited campaign tactics. 1 
"My opponent ran a negative and not always honest cam­paign against me, not a positive campaign on his ideas," said John Johnson, the unsuccessful GOP challenger in the 5th Dis­trict. "Unfortunately, the deck is stacked for incumbents." 
Democratic incumbent Jim Jontz defeated Johnson, a Val­paraiso businessman, to win a third term in what had been projected as the state's closest congressional race. 
Democrat Phil Sharp of Muncie said his successful campaign for a 1Oth term showed voters are fed up with spiteful campaigners. "I hope those who run negative cam­paigns in the future will feel there is peril," Sharp said. 
Sharp and Republican chal­lenger Michael Pence, an Indi­anapolis attorney, had called each other liars during a vitri­olic 2nd District campaign. Pence first challenged Sharp in 1988. 
see ROEMER I page 4 


Students should beware of bogus financial aid services 
By CHRISTINE WALSH 
Business Editor 
Students should be wary of subscribing to the College Financial Aid Service, a 'private scholarship service', which has mailed applications to a large number of Notre Dame students this week, according to Joseph Russo. director of Financial Aid. 
A number of students re­ceived information through the mail Wednesday from the College Financial Aid Service, promising that for a $45 'research fee' the service would provide students with a list of private organizations to which the student could apply for scholarships. 
The Financial Aid Office at Saint Mary's has gotten no calls from students saying that they have received mailings from the service. 
According to Mary Nucciarone, assistant director of Financial Aid at Saint Mary's, another scholarship service called U.S. Agencies was soliciting to students in search of financial assistance during October Break. U.S. Agencies often sends a representative to students' homes to consult with students and their families on available scholarships for a fee of $50 per month. 
Students should exhibit ex­


Revolutio·n Day upset by Red Square gunman 
MOSCOW (AP) -Mikhail Gorbachev sought political harmony by joining a Revolution Day march Wednesday but the mood was broken when a man brandish­ing a hunting rifle fired two shots in Red Square before he was hauled off. 
A group of plainclothesmen wrestled with the gunman, who shot in the air and into the ground before he was carried away. No one was reported hurt, and the chairman of the KGB security police indicated the man was deranged. 
Besides the traditional mili­tary parade in Red Square, hard-line Communists and rad­ical reformers marched in Moscow and other Soviet cities shouting slogans and carrying banners critical of Gorbachev's moderate reforms. 
Gorbachev, struggling to forge a mainstream consensus in an increasingly polarized society, said his reforms were "understood and accepted by the people." 
"We all now stand a real chance to transform our society into a normal, healthy, just and ultimately prosperous society through the second great 
see SQUARE I page 6 
treme caution when deciding whether or not to use such ser­vices, said Nucciarone. "All in­formation concerning financial aid is publicly available and free. There should be no schol­arship information that private scholarship organizations have that is not available elsewhere," Nacciarone said. 
A similar wave of bogus mailings offering financial aid opportunities (going by the names: Academic Council on Financial Assistance and National Scholarship Resources Administration, Inc.) was re­ceived by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students at about the same time last year. There is good reason to believe that the recently received scholarship service is a fraud, said Russo. 
The College Scholarship ser­vice brochure claims that it will take data from your 'Private Sector Financial Aid Form' (included in the package of in­formation), enter it into their computer data bank and "compare your skills, activities, and interests to all 180,000 known private sector awards." 
After a match is found, the student will receive "an exhaus­tive, custom report," including 15 to 20 likely sources of finan­cial aid tailored to the particu­lar individual. "We will help you get your share of the more than SEVEN BILLION DOLLARS... " so the brochure states. 
The service guarantees that if the student "applies to each source furnished by College Financial Aid Service and does not receive at least $100 by Aug. 31, 1991, your research fee will be returned to you." However, the brochure states that the guarantee is valid only if the student sends in the 'Private Sector Financial Aid Form' postmarked on or before Nov. 30, 1990. 
If students do receive a re­sponse from these scholarship organizations, it is likely that the lists received will contain 
see AID I page 6 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 


Call-in campaign 
A Saint Mary's student works diligently as a volunteer for "Put St. Mary's First," a recent fund-raising campaign. 

Thursday, November 8, 1990

page 2 The Observer 

Ihe Obset:Ver-=­
·P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 

Today's  Staff:  
Systems  
News PeteYob  Sports Dave Dieteman  Cesar Capella Gil Gomez  
Siobhan McCarthy  Scoreboard:  
Dave McMahon  
Accent  Business  
Robyn Simmons  Production  Cristina Ortiz  
Brian Grunert Fran Moyer  Kelly Lynch Cheryl Moser  Maureen Gallager  
Ad  Design  Viewpoint  Graphics Bradford Boehm  
Kerry Clair  David Certo  
Maria Blohm  Kathy Welsh  Circulation  
Tony Paganelli Amy Eckert  Allison lima  Chris Hanely Lu Medeiros  
Cara Eckman  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
CAMPUS 
The Graduate Student Union will sponsor the showing of the Notre Dame vs. Ten­nessee football game on large screen television Nov. 10 (Sat) in thr Alumni-Senior Club. All grad­uate students and their significant others arc in­vited to the evpnt. which will begin at 1:30 p.m. Kick-off will be at 2:30 p.m. An age-21 identifi­cation is required. Future dates this semester for the graduate student-faculty-staff socials are Nov. 2, 9 and 30 and Dec. 7 and 14. 
MARKET UPDATE 


NYSE Index  
167.47  {7 2.74  
S&P Composite 306.01  {7  5.61  

Dow Jones Industrials 2440.84 {7 44.31 
Precious Metals Gold {7 $0.25 to $387.90/oz. Silver {} 2.9¢ to $4.287/oz. 
ALMANAC 
On November 8: 
e In 1793: The world-famous Louvre Museum in Paris opened its doors to the public. 
e In 1923: Adolf llit!Pr launched his first attempt at seizing power in Germany with a failed coup in Munich that came to be known as the Beer-Hall Putsch. 
e In 1933: President Roosevelt created, by executive order. the Civil Works Administration, designed to create jobs for more than 4 million unemployed. 
e In 1950: During the Korean \\'ar. the first jet-plane battle took place as U.S. Air Force Lt. Russell .1. Brown shot down a North KorPan MiG-15. 
INSIDE CoLUMN 

Gulf crisis is not just tanks and tents 

Last week President 
--------­Bush said that if pro­voked, he would at­tack Iraq without he­sitation. He denied that he was preparing the country for war, just that he was doing his job. Claiming that 
Florentine

he's trying to it re­
Hoelker

solve it peacefully, he 
Assoc. News Editor 

later added, "I 
don't like being on the defense. I like being 
on the offense." 
He seems intent on proving this-last 
night I heard that Bush is sending thou­
sands more troops to Iraq from Europe. By 
Christmas there will be 300,000 troops 
there. 
Bush has compared Saddam Hussein to 
Hitler in order to prove his point that we're 
fighting for freedom. At first I believed him. 
I don't anymore. Nothing is that simple. The 
whole Iraqi crisis involves so many things­
ideology, religion, economics, politics, and I 
think mainly, oil. 
I have no intention of belaboring this 
point, but we should not forget that the is­
sue is incredibly complicated, and that it af­
fects us in many ways. I'm sure we've all 
heard of someone who's gone to the 
Mideast. Some of us may have had someone 
close go-a brother, sister, cousin, or 
friend. 
My brother Ed is there. 
I got a letter from him the other day, de­
scribing first-hand what it's like in the 
deserts of Saudi Arabia. The troops do 
wash by hand, they all live in tents, and it's 
terribly hot. My brother said that "life in the 
desert is not all that great, but it's not as 
difficult as the press makes it seem." 
"No booze, nudity, or women on the 
beach-plenty of sand though." 
He joked about the conditions of the 
"bathrooms" there (I won't go into details, 
but suffice to say it sounds pretty gross), 
saying that he's trying to keep a little hu­
mor with his day-to-day routine so as not to 
go crazy in the heat. 
He misses his wife and family. Everyone 
here must. "There is some talk of leaving 

y February," he said, "but I don't set any 
ope on it. I'll leave when I get on the 
plane." Ed always was terribly practical. 
"So far, being here is bearable, but I 
oubt I'll feel the same way in six months." 
I wonder why he's really there. It makes 
e terribly angry and frustrated some­
imes, wondering exactly why there are 
housands of soldiers there, why thousands 
ore are going, how long they'll be there. 
It's easy for us to remove ourselves from 
he issue when we read about it in the paper and see it on television. But then Bush says he'll send in more troops, and more, and he won't hesitate to send them to their deaths in the fight for what he calls "freedom." 
I'm frightened for us as a nation and frightened for the troops. I don't believe we're there for the reason Bush says we're there, but I don't know exactly what I can do about it yet. 
I just hope Ed gets home. 
WEATHER Forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 8. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
The Center for Social Concerns will be hosting a hospitality luncheon today from 11:30 a.m. to 
1:30 p.m. at the CSC. Hearty chicken soup, salad, muffins, and dessert will be served. The luncheon will benefit the Women United for Justice and Peace. 
SMC Pre-Health Professions Club will be holding a meeting today at 5 p.m. in room 286 of the science hall. All majors are welcome. If you have ques­tions, call Melissa at 273-9270 or Kim at 284-5235. 
Women for the Environment will be meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in the Media Center of SMC Library to view a segment of the PBS series "A Race to Save the Planet." 
Right-to-Life of ND/SMC will sponsor an informa­tional talk on Operation Rescue tonight at 8:30p.m. in the Lewis Hall party room. If you have questions, call Jay Landry at 239-7735. 
Dorothy Day will be honored at a mass in Keenan Hall at 11 p.m. The celebrant of the mass will be Father Hines. 
Make-up placement exams for French and Spanish will be given on Friday, Nov. 9. For information, call 239-6886 or stop by the Romance Language Office. 
NATIONAL 
William Bennett is resigning as the first director of the Office of National Drug Control Strategy after leading what the White House called "a turnaround" in the battle against the drug scourge.Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Bush will formally accept Bennett's 

resignation in a ceremony at the White House on Thursday. The position was created in the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988. Published reports have suggested that Bennett's replacement may be former District of Columbia superior court judge Reggie Walton, who is now associate drug control director for state and local affairs in Bennett's office. 
Yesterday's high: 40 Yesterday's low: 3 8 Nation's low: -16 (West Yellowstone, Mont.) Nation's high: 87 (Fort Myers, Lakeland, Miami, and West Palm Beach, Fla.) 
Forecast: Sunny but very cool today, high in the mid 40s. Low tonight near 30. Tomorrow will be cloudy with a 30% chance of rain, high 40­
45. 

©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc 
Sign-ups for Art Expo '90 have been extended throughout the week. All interested should go to the SUB office or call 239-7757 by Friday. 
Off-campus students may pick up their phone books at the Student Government Secretary's office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune, Monday through Friday 9-5 
p.m. 

Rolling tympani player auditions. Any person interested in playing "The Crazy Drums" in the 1991-92 ND Marching Band, contact the band office by Tuesday, November 13 at 239-7136 or 239-5054. 
CSC Mexico Project informational meeting on Tuesday, November 13 at 7 p.m. in the CSC. A special guest from Maryknoll Missionaries in charge of the Mex­ico project will be speaking. If you have questions, call Kathy at 277-9406 or Lauren at 273-1380. 
The Accounting Association is sponsoring a trip to Eli Lilly and Company on Thursday, November 
29. If interested, contact Chris Blanco at 283-4258. 
Interested in religious life? Young women now have an opportunity to should come together to share and pray in the Discernment Group. For more info, call Sisters of Holy Cross membership office M-F 8-4:30 
A reluctant witness jolted the Central Park jogger trial Wednesday when she said defendant Kharey Wise told her he had fondled the legs of the woman he is accused of raping last year. On cross-examination by Wise's lawyer, Colin Moore, Jackson testified, saying that Wise told her he "held and fondled" the woman's legs. Moore attacked Jackson as a liar. He suggested she was testifying for money.The 30-year-old victim, who testified at the trial last week, was left near death in Central Park. She has returned to work as an investment banker, although hampered by vision and balance problems. 
Thursday, November 8, 1990 The Observer 

Chilean speaker 
Genaro Arriagada of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars spoke at Notre Dame yesterday about the problems concerning Democracy in Chile. 
NO United Nations Club receives awards 
By BECKY RITZERT 
News Writer 
Members of Notre Dame's Model United Nations Club re­cently received two awards for their participation in the American United Nations Conference held in Chicago during fall break. 
Mike Faehner won the award for "Best Justice in the Court of Justice" and as a team, Faehner and David Certo were voted "Best Delegation." 
According to Faehner, "About thirty schools from the mid­west participated in this model 
U.N. simulation. Each school represented a country." 
Student participants vnted in order to determine the award recipients. "Our fellow students judged us," said Faehner. "The whole conference is basically run by students," he said. 
According to Faehner, the awards brought significant recognition to the new club. 
"This was the fourth year of our (club's) existence. Last year we attended a conference in Washington and one in New York, but this was the first time we won anything to speak of," he said. 
Faehner said ten members of the approximately fifty-member club attended the conference. He described the activities as "fun learning" and added, "a lot of people did it in high school and they want to continue here." 
Although no extensive prepa­ration was necessary, Faehner mentioned the need to be famil­iar with current issues. 
"We are given a list of issues and we do independent re­search so we are prepared. For example, I was on the Security Council, so I researched the Persian Gulf situation," ex­plained Faehner. 
During Easter Break, the club plans to attend an international conference at which more than 200 schools will be represented. 


Blood drive scheduled for donors 
Special to the Observer 
The South Bend Medical Foundation in coordination with the Center for Social Con­cerns has organized a campus wide blood drive this semester. 
The South Bend Medical Foundation provides blood for all patients in St. Joseph County. Only 48% of the popu­lation in St. Joseph County are eligible to donate blood, and only 5.5% actually donate. 
Forty to fifty units of blood are needed per day for average hospital usage. 
The Notre Dame University students, faculty and employees contributed over 1500 units of blood last year. Several remote blood drives were held in dorms and various social organizations. 
In November and December, drives are scheduled to be in the following dorms : 


TENNIS CLINIC 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER13 5:30 -7:00PM 


MEET AT THE ECK PAVILION REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT NVA 
In Nov.: 
•Thursday, 
8, Badin Hall 

•Tuesday, 
13, Sorin Hall 


•
Wed-Thurs. 14-15, Morris­sey 

•Wed-Thurs, 
28-29, St. Ed­ward's 


In Dec.: 
*Tuesday, 4, Siegfried 
*Wednesday, 5, Cavanaugh 
*Thursday, 6, Law School 
*Tuesday, 11, Junior Class 

Alex's -An Old Time Tradition 
Alex's Shoe Hospital has been seiVing the Notre Dame community since 1919. You can't take the streetcar anymore, but today's quick trlp downtown st111 rewards you with cartng, friendly service (often while you wait) and old time craftsmanship. 


Keep your feet In shape by trusting your footwear maintenance needs to Alex's Shoe Hospital. 
-~­



239-6100 



SHOE·HO SPITAL 
115 West Washington Downtown South Bend Dally 7:30-5:30, Saturday 9:00 to 1:00 
Telephone 288-2188 
. page 3 


Democracy in Chile a transition, says analyst 
main features: a weak presi­dent of the republic, a parlia­ment with enough power to blockade laws and amend­ments, an army inside the state. and a strong judicial power out of the control of the democratic force. Pinochet wanted to make sure that he would still have some leverage in the country regardless of democratic influ­ence. 
To further complicate the transition, the new president of the republic, Patricio Alwin, was permitted only limited power to nominate certain crit­ical officials. Pinochet filled these same positions before he left office. 
Arriagada said the Chilean Supreme Court "has been one of the most awful things during the Pinochet years. They re­fused to give protection to the rights of the people -which is their duty." 
In the last nine months of his rule, Pinochet managed to ap­point nine new members to the Supreme Court in an attempt to retain further control over the new government. 
In spite of the restrictions imposed by the current Constitution and laws, Arriagada believes that the democracy is not without hope. 
Arriagada sees Chile as a na­tion of survivors who have al­ready overcome a troublesome past. The current government is "working so well together" and is able to provide its citi­zens with a strong sense of le­gitimacy. 
He said that in the sixteen years under Pinochet the Chilean people have come to re­alize that transition to a new political structure is always dif­ficult. There will always be clash between the previous le­gal order of the country and the new system. "We must be prudent at every step." 
Arriagada looks forward to a strong democracy in 1993. "We can trust that we will survive democracy." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, NOV.S 

2:30 p.m. A Flanner resident reported the theft of his bicycle from outside Flanner Hall sometime on November 2nd or 3rd. 
4:00 p.m. A Walsh resident reported receiving a series of harassing phone calls over the last month. 
8:11 p.m. A Siegfried resident reported her dorm keys and Detex card missing from Loftus Sports Center. 
10:14 p.m. An off-campus student reported seeing a suspicious person outside her apartment. 
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 7TH 

1:22 a.m. An Indiana resident reported the theft of his wife"s purse from his automobile while it was parked in Red Field East during a concert. 
8:09 a.m. A University employee re­ported damage to University grounds near the post office caused by a semi-trailer truck. 
ftAmerican HeartV Association 

BY MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
News Writer 
Transition from a dictatorship to democracy can be a difficult, lengthy process, but the new government in Chile has the prudence and patience to survive, said Genaro Arriagada of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. 
Arriagada, a renown author and political analyst, met with Notre Dame students yesterday afternoon at a lecture titled "The Reworking of Democracy in Chile: Roadblocks and Detours." 
As an active participant in the democratic transition in Chile, Arriagada is seen as an expert in party ideology and the role of the military. 
"Every transition is very diffi­cult and very differ­ent,"Arriagada said. Chile's problems differ from those in Brazil, Argentina, or any other Latin American country. 
He explained that Chile has had difficulties "since moment one on the fifth of October, 1988" when the Christian Democratic Party defeated mili­tary dictator Pinochet in the country's first democratic elec­tion. 
Arriagada said that when Pinochet lost his executive posi­tion he warned that the demo­cratic victory was meaningless. The new party had "the cere­mony of power but would not receive any real power." 
Before actually leaving office, Pinochet created a new political order which would make the transition to democracy even more burdensome. This new order included a permanent po­sition for Pinochet as Commander-in-Chief of the military. 
According to Arriagada, Pinochet left the new democ­racy with "one of the most aw­ful constitutions and legal frameworks to live with." 
Arriagada defined the new political order as having four 
AMERICAN 

CANCER
SOCIETY. 
American Heart Ja Association V' 


Election '90 
Thursday, November 8, 1990 
pa~ 


Democrats make gains in Sun Belt 
(API Democrats boasted Wednesday of a Sun Belt elec­tion brcakth rough that could buoy their presidential prospects in 1992. Republicans gained two late upsets to go with a win in California and claimed, "we didn't do too bad" despit1~ mid-term setbacks. 
Still, a Democratic celebration was in full swing. 
"George Bush is in a slide. There's absolutely no question about it," said Hon Brown, chairman of the Democratic National Committee. 
The White House saw it dif­ferently, as a midterm election with something for everyone, and said it could not be inter­preted as a referendum on Bush's popularity anyway. 
For winners everywhen~. the day after brought exultation. "An overpowering moment," said John Engler. elected gov­ernor of Michigan in a long, late count over Democratic in­cumbent James Blanchard. 
From the disappointed, there were generally gracious com­ments. Said Democratic Rep. Jim Bates, trailing narrowly in California. "If the voters decide 




Roemer 
continued from page 1 
Hepublicans fared poorly in the effort to win back the 4th District. which Quayle repre­sented from 1976-80. Demo­cratic incumbent Jill Long cap­tured 60 percent of the vote in defeating Baptist ministPr Hichard Hawks of Fort Wayne. 
"I think it was a result of hard work and coming back to the district." Long said. 
In otlwr raees: 
-Democratic incumbent Lee Hamilton boat Floyd CoatPs of Scottsburg in tlw <Jth District. 
-Hepubliean incumbent John Myers defeated Democratic chaiiPnger John 
SfEAKS 
PRIME RIB .·~ 
I 


SEAFOOD~~
H
Rf..ST,IL'RAi""T 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday Brunch 100 Center-Mishawaka 219-259-9925 

1153 N Dearborn St Chtcago. IL 60610 L-.--312-951-0585 

to make a change, that's what democracy is all about." 
After weeks of talk that voters were angry about Congress' performance and ready to make changes. about 96 per­cPnt of incumbPnts won re-elec­tion. 
Senate Democratic Leader George Mitchell and House Speaker Thomas Foley. their majorities strengthened in the 1 02nd Congress, went to work on an agenda for the next two years. 
Foley said it would include "tax fairness," as well as leg­islative initiatives for health care and education. 
"The debate over the budget was the best thing that hap­pened," said Brown of the Oc­tober political free-for-all in which Bush abandoned his no­new-taxes campaign pledge. 
In the ensuing scramble. Democrats jumped on a theme of tax fairness, depicting them­selves as defenders of the mid­dle class and Hepublicans as protectors of the rich. 
A day after the polls closed, 
there were three races unset-
tied. 
Arizona's gubernatorial con­test appeared headed for a runoff after neither Democrat Terry Goddard nor Hepublican Fife Symington amassed 50 percent of the vote in a three-way race. 
Two California House races were too close to call, both in­volving Democratic incumbents. In a third race that was decided during the day. Hepublicans held onto a GOP seat. 
In all, Democrats emerged from the elections with a 56-44 majority in the Senate, a gain of one seat. They were adding nine scats to their House ma­jority for a likely edge of 268­
167. Their major congressional disappointment: GOP Sen. Jesse lieIms' bigger-than-expected re-election in North Carolina. 
Democrats took seven gover­norships away from Hepubli­cans, inc.Iuding Bush's home state of Texas, where Ann Hichards vanquished Clayton Williams, and Florida, where Lawton Chiles ousted Gov. Bob Martinez. 
Riley in the 7th District. -In Indianapolis' 1Oth Dis­
-McCloskey defeated GOP trict, Democratic incumbent nominee Hichard Mourdock of Andrew Jacobs Jr. defeated He­Evansville in the 8th District. publican Janos Horvath. 
-Democratic incumbent 
-Hepublican incumbent Dan Peter Visclosky beat former Burton beat Democrat James GOP state senator William Fadely in the 6th District. Costas in the 1st District. 
"ONCE A DOMER, ALWAYS A DOMER!" 
LOVE, MOM, DAD, CHRISTIE AND 

BUFF(the cat) 


Campaign help APPhOIO 
President Bush waves and U.S Senator Rudy Boschwitz of minnesota gives the thumbs up at a GOP rally in Rochester Minnesota. 








SECOND ITEM 1/2 PRICE SALE NOVEMBER 7th 11th 
Benetton 
• Higher Price 

University Park Mall 
Prevails 


6501 Grape Rd Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219) 277-7358 
• Sale items Fragrance and cosmetics excluded. 


Election '90
Thursday, November 8, ~ 990 

Economy was key issue for voters 
WASHINGTON (AP) -An ar­ray of economic concerns ag­gravated by a heavy dose of voter exasperation left some political careers in ruins Wednesday and others on the brink. 
"Economic concerns are paramount in the minds of people," said Frank Newport, editor-in-chief of the Gallup Poll. "The deficit, savings and loans, increases in taxes, reces­sion, worries about unemploy­ment -that's what people talk about" when asked open-ended questions about their discon­tent. 
Mich. Governor, other incumbents lose 
CHICAGO (AP) -Voters de­livered a knockout punch to in­cumbents in the nation's mid­section, ousting four governors and one U.S. senator-the only senator in the nation to lose a re-election bid. 
Two veteran Democrats and two freshman Republicans were defeated Tuesday in heated gubernatorial contests. ·And in a stunning upset in the Senate, Minnesota GOP incumbent Rudy Boschwitz lost 
Summary of the races for the U.S. House. 
DEMOCRATS  REPUBLICANS  
Won  267  165  
Leading  0  2  
Trend  267  167  
Current  259  176  
Net Change  +8  -9  

~ STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYourChances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
12/1/90 LSAT CLASS STARTING NOW! 
his bid for a third term. 
In the most tumultuous race, 
Minnesota Gov. Rudy Perpich 
was narrowly defeated by Re­
publican Arne Carlson, who 
was a 11th-hour replacement 
after the GOP candidate with­
drew amid charges of sexual ·improprieties. 
In Michigan, two-term Gov. James Blanchard lost by a ra­zor-thin margin to Republican state Senate Majority Leader 
Although abortion did not play a consistent or decisive role in the elections, it was mentioned much more frequently in exit polls this year than in 1988 in response to questions about what mattered most to people. 
Andrew Kohut, president of Princeton Survey Research As­sociates Group, attributed the higher frequency to the Supreme Court's 1989 Webster decision giving states more au­thority to restrict abortion. 
"It wasn't the dominant issue in every race, but it was in the top tier ir. most of the key raees," Kohut said. "It's now an important basis by which 
people make choices about candidates." In most parts of the country, exit polls -mirroring national polls -suggested that eco­nomic themes were the domi­nant influence on voter deci­sion-making. The themes took a variety of turns. 
Six incumbent governors were ousted, among them three who were blamed for higher taxes and two who suffered from the effects of slumping economies. The same problem almost spelled doom for Maine Gov. John McKernan. 
John Engler. The governor is the first Michigan chief execu-· tive to be booted from office in nearly 30 years. 
In two other contests, Repub­licans blamed for higher taxes 
· lost bids for second terms. In Kansas, State Treasurer Joan Finney defeated Gov. Mike Hay­den. And in Nebraska, busi­nessman Ben Nelson eked out a win over Kay Orr, the state's first woman governor. 
Some political analysts specu­late the gubernatorial losses are tied to the office itself. 
"The governors were a lot more vulnerable than legisla­tors," said Burdett Loomis, a University of Kansas political science professor. "Governors have to deal with the fiscal problems on the ground. That certainly may mean raising taxes, cutting budgets, things likely to be unpopular. 
"Someone like Blanchard over eight years has done a lot of unpopular things," he said. "Hayden created a number of enemies. Perpich was seen as flaky and ticked off a variety of people. The potential to lose is much greater with the gover­nors. You're much more ac­countable for your actions." 
In two of three gubernatorial races in which taxes domi­nated, GOP incumbents lost. 

========~SENIORS.~•======== 
Spring Break Trip Options: 
_ Tampa/Clearwater -$529.00 
_ Tampa Bay -$495.00 
_ Cancun -$569.00 
_ Montego Bay, Jamaica-$749.00 
Have Previous Plans 
_______(other) 
Not Interested 
Are you planning to attend the Bowl Game? _yes no 
Please just tear this out and drop it in campus mail as soon as possible. 
pages 


AP PhotO 

Democratic Gubernatorial candidate Ann Richards hugs Leonard Russ Monday in Houston. 
Returns and projected winners in key races for Governor 
CALIFORNIA 99 percent -Open Feinstein, Dem 3,274,828-46 percent x-Wilson, GOP 3,462,266 -49 percent McCready, Oth 127,949-2 percent Thompson, Oth 134,825-2 percent Munoz, Oth 89,625 -1 percent 
FLORIDA 100 percent -Dem Gain x-Chiles, Dem 1,987,863-57 percent Martinez, GOP (i) 1,524,313-43 percent 
ILLINOIS 98 percent -Open Hartigan, Dem 1,538,389 -48 percent x-Edgar, GOP 1,635,368-52 percent 
MASSACHUSETTS 99 percent -Open-GOP Gain Silber, Dem 1,098,022 -48 percent x-Weld, GOP 1,174,916-52 percent 
MICHIGAN 100 percent -GOP Gain Blanchard, Dem (i) 1,260,611 -50 percent x-Engler, GOP 1,279,744-50 percent 
TEXAS 99 percent -Open-Dem Gain x-Richards, Dem 1,916,673-51 percent Williams, GOP 1,818,281 -49 percent 
j I I 
I 
I I 
I• 
I• ~ 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1990 





Square 
continued from page 1 
revolution," Gorbachev pro­claimed from atop Lenin's Mausoleum on the 73rd an­niversary of the Bolshevik Revolution. 
Gray skies and snow flurries cast a somber mood as the Soviet armed forces sent 8,500 troops and 250 armored vehi­cles thundering across the cobblestones of Red Square. 
For the first time, the Soviets showed off a mobile SS-25 in­tercontinental ballistic missile capable of hurling a nuclear warhead 6,300 miles. The sys­tem has been deployed since 1985. 
The theme was peace, how­ever, and Gorbachev joined his political foes, Russian President Boris Yeltsin and Moscow Mayor Gavriil Popov, in leaving the mausoleum and joining a civilian march that began after • the military parade. 
It was the first time Soviet leaders actually walked in the march, the state news agency 
Aid 
continued from page 1 
companies and scholarship sponsors which no longer exist, said Russo. 
"The deadline is a means for forcing students to make a quick decision," Russo said. 
"Some students may find the needle in a haystack, but gener­ally they (scholarship services) should not be trusted," said Russo. "I don't know of a single Notre Dame student who sent in money (to scholarship orga­nizations) and got a dime." 
l 
The brochures tend to be "pretty slick. Ther~ is a 'sophisticated' financial aid 
1 
form (in the mailed information package) and the service even has a postage-paid business reply envelope and a toll-free ( number. The letterhead for the organization has a Washington 
D.C. address, which also makes it look official," said Russo. The presentation of the service looks professional, which may
{ 
entice students to try it, he said. 
Russo called the 800-number 
in the College Financial Aid 
1 
Service brochure Wednesday 
j 
Tass reported. 
The three men, along with Defense Minister Dmitri Yazov, Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov and others laid red flowers at Lenin's tomb. 
The mood was broken by the markedly conservative tone of the subsequent civilian marchers consisting of an esti­mated 100,000 marchers orga­nized by Moscow Communist Party chief Yuri Prokofiev. 
Some carried portraits of dictator JosefStalin, whom Gorbachev scorned in his re­marks, and two carried pho­tographs of naked women, suggesting variously that cur­rent leaders had ravished or neglected the country. Other banners said: 
"President: In our house, there is no butter, no meat and no peace." 
"Gorbachev, you are scoring points abroad, but losing at home." 
About four minutes after Gorbachev went back on top of the Lenin mausoleum, two shots were heard above the marching music. 
morning and said that when he asked to speak to the director of the service (whose signature is on the letter that was sent to the students), the person who answered the phone did not recognize the name. 
According to Russo, when he finally spoke to someone con­nected with the service, the in­dividual could not answer his basic questions concerning the operation of the service. Russo was able to ascertain that the College Financial Aid Service has been in existence about a year, but little else. Furthermore, the man from the service said that he did not know and could not tell how the service had acquired their mailing list. 
When The Observer called the· College Financial Aid Service through its 800-number on Wednesday afternoon, it was connected to their 'automated customer service line'. Information ~as available by using a touch-tone phone on topic choices such as: 
• 
Filling out the 'Private Sector Financial Aid Form' 

• 
Details of the money-back guarantee 


Senior Class Office Second Floor LaFortune 
CAMPUS MAIL 
Women's health discussed in SMC lecture 
By RENEE YOUNG 
News Writer 
The civil rights movement of the sixties and the women's movement of the seventies have led to the women's health movement of the eighties and nineties, according to Dr. Gail English of the Saint Mary's Health Center. 
Women's health was the pri­mary topic of a panel discussion held last night at Carroll Auditorium. The panel con­sisted of Dr. Gail English, gen­eral practitioner, and Dr. Nancy Keller-Madden, local gy­necologist and obstetrician. 
Also on the panel was Well­nesSMC commissioner Molly Bringardner, WellnesSMC member Katie Jones and Saint Mary's Health Center intern, Jessica Trame. These three col­lected questions from the audi­ence to ask both doctors. 
The discussion was spon­sored by the Saint Mary's Health Center and WellnesSmc. 
• How the service works 
• 
Aid for internatfonal stu­dents 

• 
Status on already submitted financial aid forms 

• 
How to receive a new copy of the financial aid form 


When pressing '3' for general information, the recording re­peated the same option menu. After several tries, a recording finally spoke about 'general in­formation' concerning the ser­vice. However, the information provided was no more than what was already sent in the package received in the mail. 
The recordings did not pro­vide any other names or num­bers to contact in the event we had questions which could not be answered by the recordings. 
It is difficult to prosecute these scholarship organiza­tions, said Russo. In the past the U.S. Postal Service became involved in the matter, but in the case of "marginally ethical" organizations, the best the Postal Service can do is charge the organization with ;nlsuse of federal mail' and prevent the organizations from soliciting through the U.S. mail, said Russo. 
Gloria Chelminiak, director of the Saint Mary's Health Center, said that the group's goal was to address the topics of preven­tive medicine and overall awareness of mind and body. 
One of the main points of the evening was that women must now take their health seriously 
According to Dr. English, there is no quick fix or instant cure for health. The only way to prevent illness is to learn to balance proper nutrition, sleep, and exercise during college, creating habits for life, she said. 
Dr. Madden teaches that by the age of eighteen a woman should see a gynecologist for a pap-smear in order to deter­mine any irregularities in the cervix area. Also, women should be giving themselves monthly breast examinations after each period, when the breast is least bloated, to detect lumps. 
A warning was given to those who smoke and drink. Accord­ing to Dr. Madden, although drinking may increase sexual desire, it decreases perfor­mance. Smoking also promotes infertility in women. 
Alcohol also plays a key role in the majority of date rapes, Madden said. Any student who is raped or sexually attacked should report immediately to St. Joseph's Medical Center without bathing and/or chang­ing clothes, according to Mad­den. There a doctor will exam­ine the victim and steps will be taken to prevent disease and pregnancy. Afterward, a coun­selor will be appointed to the student. The police will be given a report only with the consent of the victim. 
Other subjects such as toxic shock syndrome, birth control, PMS, and douching were dis­cussed. Director Gloria Chelminiak extended an invita­tion to any students who felt the need to discuss these issues and encouraged students to visit the Health Center. Chelminiak promised complete confidentiality to all inquisitors. 




IMarch of Dimes 

is currently looking for interested people to fill the following paid positions: 
Typesetter 
for the late shifts on Mondays and Wednesdays 
Familiarity with computers is necessary, preferrably on the Macintosh. If interested, contact Bernard Brenninkmeyer at The Observer office at 239-5303 


How to start your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
S~art with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance ofbeing accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any ofour 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
~(e~ \ \-c:,r· cP~· 
t...'~ 

l KAP 
\1.\\\'}()S'la."<"'¢ '=' . LAN 
c\3-~ STANlEY H. KAPI.AN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
DONT COMPETE WITI-1 A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
•17 £. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 Phone 219/272-4135 
Thursday, November 8, 1990 
The Observer page 7 
£ 
Mayor of South Bend 
Professor discusses humans and nature 
By JEFF CABOTAJE spiritual self. jection of the illusion of abso­News Writer Blaeser cited works of several lute control over nature and


speaks on area crime 
nature writers, such as the acceptance of its ongoing 
In acknowledging their in­Thoreau, Barry Lopez and mysteries. significance in nature, Annie Dillard, explaining their •In spiritual expansion, the humans simultaneously expression of this self-discovery fourth phase, natural writers 
discover much about through their writings. She find themselves experiencing themselves, said Professor described five phases in the a heightened awareness and Kimberly Blaeser, visiting process traced by many nature ecstasy about nature. American Studies professor. writers in their search for a re­•The final phase, 
Yesterday's lecture, titled lationship with nature. integration effort, asked the "Homo sapiens and the •The first phase was con­question "How can these Landscape: Tracking Nature, scious engagement of nature in experiences advance others' Discovering Ourselves," which man turns away from his movement toward en­focused on the relationship own society and willingly lightenment about nature?" between human beings and escapes to nature for solace For many naturalists, said the landscape. "That we are and meaning. This escape must Blaeser, the process of writing referred to as Homo sapiens," be one of attentiveness and de­becomes the process of inte­said Blaeser, "in itself liberate receptiveness, said grating nature into others' relegates to us a less grand Blaeser. lives. "Their tales of the position than we often •The second phase, barrier journey of landscapes tell the envisioned for ourselves as frustration, described the bar­tale of Homo sapiens who, in but one of many distinct riers alienating humans from tracking nature, inadvertently species." nature. According to Blaeser, discover much about 
She further explained how intellect and science limit hu­themselves." humans tend to evaluate mans to be mere observers in other species as lower the "stadium of life." The frus­Blaeser stated that mankind creatures with only instinct as trated observer is fully aware of tends to alienate the self from their guide. Yet, only through these barriers. nature, and this, she believed, 
losing the self in the realm of •Relinquishing control, the has intensified during the last nature does one discover the third phase, demanded the re-50 years. 
Gynecologist speaks about menopause 
BY ANNMARIE ZELL An even more serious problem all walks of life. News Writer is osteoporosis. Bartscht recommends estro­After menopause women lose gen treatment to deal with the 
The best way to control the 3% of their bone matter each side effects of menopause. irritating and serious side ef­year. Commonly problematic However, steady estrogen use fects of menopause, in most bones are the wrist and hip. over cases, is a combination of One-third of women who frac­time has been known to estrogen and progesterone ture their hips will die, due to cause cancer of the uterine lin­treatment, according to Dr. clotting complications. One­ing because it causes the cells Karen Bartscht. fourth of the women with hip of the uterine lining to divide. 
Bartscht, a practicing obste­fractures will end up in a long­Fortunately, progesterone 
trician and gynecologist and term care facility because it is treatment, in addition to estro­assistant professor of Obstetrics the type of injury which takes gen, controls the multiplication and Gynecology at the away a woman's ability to per­of the uterine cells and greatly University of Michigan, dis­form daily tasks. diminishes the risk of cancer. cussed the many problems as­Although Bartscht is a pro­sociated with menopause and Another problem associated ponent of hormonal therapy, how they are especially with osteoporosis is the collapse she acknowledges, "It's a big relevant today when women of the spinal column commitment and every woman must struggle with menopause characterized as 'the hump should do what is right for her." on the job. "It's an exciting time back' which not only is The estrogen and proges­for us (women). We are living unattractive but also causes terone treatment does have its one-third of our lives after lower back and neck problems. negative side effects. There is menopause," she said in her Menopausal changes can be often irregular bleeding during lecture titled, Memos and very annoying and irritating to the first six to eight months Menopause. women on the job. Hot flushes after the hormones are first 
The problems of menopause can break a women's concen­administered. However, every range from small irritants to tration while she is working. woman is different-one life-threatening injuries. Many Other symptoms such as in­treatment of modality might be women experience hot flushes, somnia are not healthy and can right for one woman and not which consist of blushing and affect the way a woman feels for another. Genetic back­sweating, mood swings, insom­about herself and the world. ground. general health, past nia, loss of resilience of the Increased risk of heart disease, medical history all factor into skin, increased risk of cardio­stroke, and osteoporosis are a the menopausal experience of a vascular diseases and strokes. serious situation for women in woman. 
By MITCH FREEHAUF 
News Writer 
Joseph Kernan, mayor of 
South Bend, addressed the 
crime situation of the South 
Bend area and detailed what 
steps the local government and 
police department were taking 
to reduce it. 
Kernan, a 1968 Notre Dame 
graduate serving his third term 
as mayor, pointed out last night 
that the South Bend area was 
not necessarily experiencing an 
increase in the crime rate, but 
rather an escalation of the 
violence involved in the crimes. 
He attributed the growing vi­olence to the drug problem, noting that today's criminals are more willing to use exces­sive force and are better equipped to do so. 
The mayor stressed that pub­lic safety is "at the top of the list when it comes to the priorities of the city administration," but that fiscal restraints require careful assessment of the law enforcement agency in order to do as much as possible with the money allotted. 
Kernan spoke on many pro­grams that have been started in the hopes of making South Bend safer. 
Programs such as Safetyville, DARE (a drug abuse education program), and the Juvenile Aid program are designed to edu­cate South Bend's youth about how they can avoid crime and allows them to see officers as friends. 
In areas more prone to crime, 
FULl SERVICE FLORIST 
Bouquets Plants Bouquets Balloon Stuffing Corsages Arrangement Dish Gardens Boutonnieres Fresh and Sil 
~----------------------,
l10°/o OFF CASH AND CARRYJI with SMC or NO student ID 1 
The ~D(JI!I Jllall


------------------------· 
South ot Unfvenlty Pak Jllall 
211• ) 29) 
5901 Grape Rd. 24-hour answering service Mishawaka. ll'f 46M~ 
the police department has cre­
ated a system called "direct pa­
trols" in which crime areas are 
heavily patrolled, Kernan said. 
In the seven months that the 
program has been in operation, 
"direct patrols" has been very 
effective. 
Officers in the uniform divi­
sion have begun patrolling the 
downtown area more fre­
quently on foot and on bicycle 
in an effort to let them be a 
visible presence to the public 
and potential criminals, he said. 
According to Mayor Kernan, two of South Bend's most effec­tive crime prevention programs are the "Crimestoppers" pro­gram and the Neighborhood Watch program. "Crimestoppers" shows police cases on television and uses rewards to encourage citizens to anonymously phone in leads. The neighborhood watch pro­gram has been particularly ef­fective in reducing crime by fifty percent in some areas. 
Kernan said, "I believe that South Bend has one of the finest police departments in the state, and I would credit it to the dedicated, able officers who do a tremendous job." 
"However, they can't do it alone," he said, "and that's why we turn to schools and neigh­borhoods in hopes of imple­menting a much broader base of community involvement in helping South Bend become a safer place to live." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Hesburgh Program in Public Service. 





= ISO BANQUET ~ 
The International Student Organization invites you to it's traditional International Banquet. 
We will be featuring more than 15 dishes this year from all over the world. 
It's a great oppertunity to enjoy traditional and exotic meals prepared by the International Students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Date: Friday, November 9th , 1990 Place: Center for Social Concerns. Time: 8:00 pm thru 10:30pm. Tickets: $ 5.00 

ISO office, 2nd floor Lafortune, or contact Maria Fernanda (284-5011) Etienne/Juan (273-1686), Jorge (x11 06) or Carmen (x4281 J or at the door if available and only until 8:30 pm. 
N APPETIT ! BUEN PROVECHO ! EAT WELL 

THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIAL PRCERAMe 
~~ 
0American Heart Association 
This space provided as a public service. 
A Tribute to John Lennon 
Poster Signed & No. (t8"x24") $23.75 shipped T·Shirt $19.50 shipped Long-Sleeved T-shirt $25.00 sh•pped 
CA Resqnts add 6 25"1'. Salea Ta.o. 
(l Rigler ProduciiOM 1001 Brodgeway 1705. SausaJ•o. CA 94965 80().553-6367 




1: 
.f 
I 
;, 
.( 


Business 
page 8 


Gulf war games 
A patron in New York's Broadway Arcade tries his hand Friday at 'F-15 Strike Eagle', a video game with a 'Gulf war scenario'-jets blow up enemy oil and military sites. Sales of the game have risen 30 percent since hostilities began in the Gulf. 
Scotch.™ Hook & Loop Tape 


$1.29 

Thursday, November 8, 1990 
Wholesale Club bought out 
Wai-Mart acquires chain for $21 per share 
BENTONVILLE, Ark. (AP) ­Wal-Mart Stores Inc. has en­tered into a merger agreement to acquire The Wholesale Club Inc. for about $170 million, the companies announced. 
Wal-Mart President, David Glass, said Tuesday the Indianapolis-based Wholesale Club's outlets and operations would complement Wal-Mart's 
Buddist monk worth $400 mil. 
TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) -Hsing Yun fled China in 1949 with only his grey robe and cotton shoes. Today, he is a millionaire monk, praised by some as a philanthropist, reviled by others a mail-order preacher. 
He has more than 400,000 disciples in Taiwan, 27 monas­teries around the world and as­sets valued at more than $400 million. 
In two decades, Hsing Yun has fashioned a Buddhist em­pire that stretches from Taiwan to Australia and the United States. He runs a temple in Las Vegas and hopes to build a university in Los Angeles. 
Last year, the 63-year-old monk returned to China as a philanthropist, drawing big crowds as he donated hand­somely to dozens of temples. 
Post-it ™ File Folders Labels 

$1.29 
Sam's Wholesale Club Division and give the discount chain a significant presence in new markets. 
The Wholesale Club operates 27 membership clubs in Indianapolis, Fort Wayne and Mishawaka, Ind., as well as Ohio, Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin and Minnesota. Sales for the six­month period ended Aug. 4 totaled $333 million. 
His influence, popularity and money have won him a meeting with China's president, Yang Shangkun, despite the fact that the Communist Party strictly controls religion. 
To critics, who feel Buddhists should be austere, Hsing Yun is a mail-order preacher who makes a fortune from contribu­tors seeking a fast route to Nirvana. He operates his tem­ples as a big business, they say, raking in profits with special prayer services for the wealthy. 
Supporters say Hsing Yun of­fers free prayer services and free Buddhist education to the poor, who include about 500 students at his six Buddhist colleges. 
They also praise the monk's political acumen and his phi­losophy. 


SALE 

Post-it ™ 
Fax pads 
$1.99 

Wai-Mart operates 141 Sam's Wholesale outlets and 1,503 Wal-Mart discount stores in 34 states. 
A statement by the companies said Wai-Mart would acquire The Wholesale Club for the equivalent of $21 a share. With about 8 million shares out­standing, the deal is worth $170 million, said a spokesman for The Wholesale Club. 
Unlike the many Buddhist masters who instruct their dis­ciples to give up pleasures for a better afterlife. Hsing Yun teaches how to aehieve peace in a busy, industrial society. 
Hsing Yun has railed on many world and religious leaders who avoid visiting diplomati­cally isolated Taiwan. To the Taiwan press. he is the island's "sup~r diplomat." 
The monk's Hsi Lai Temple near Los Angeles has given refuge to several dissidents who fled China after the June 1989 crackdown on the pro­democracy movement. Earlier this year, Xu Jiatun, China's top diplomat in Hong Kong, stayed at the temple after abruptly leaving the British colony. 
·. -... ......
~ 

Viewpoint
Thursday, November 8, 1990 page 9 



Dear Editor: 
This is in response to Hex J. Hempel's letter (The Observer, Oct. 301 which asserted that students' complaints about the cost of this University lack ra­tional analysis. "Yes, it is a lot of money which demands ac­countability and service," he wrote, '"I paid $15.000 and so I deserve this.' That's not a valid argument. and we generally get what we pay for." 
:\ow. obviously. this being a private institution. thP only thing that entitlPs tlw students to any rights or facilities on campus is the tuition and fees we pay. Hence, this should be the principle basis for the com­plaints students have about the facilities or services on campus. 
"Sensitivity to individual con­cerns, funding, availability, fea­sibility, long-term effects, fair­ness and intent must always be considered along with how much we are paying," wrote Hempel. No doubt. Included with most complaints students make, however, are rational solutions which show that the students have, indeed, ra­tionally analyzed thl' problems 
A prime example of this was Edward Yevoli's letter (The Observer, Oct 16) about the atrocious student parking situ­aticm. Om~ eould rationally ar­gut• that Wf' studpnts wh1; pay thousands in tuition have more of a right to dPcent parking than do the ten or elevf'n visi­tors who park in the visi­tor/faculty lot by the stadium. 
While this seems like a trivial problem, the approaching win­ter, with its plummeting tern­peratures, will only increase re­sentment and decrease the health of off-campus students having to walk the extra few­hundred yards from the current lots. Yet, the abundantly clear (and virtually costless) solution of restructuring the parking lots has evidently escaped thP attention of those in charge of campus parking. 
Problems of this sort, which affl'et so manv studPnts and which could be 'so easilv solwd, arf' the least that. s11ould be taken care of out of considnra­tion for the students to bettf'r ensure that we get our money's worth or, in most cases. our parents' money worth. 
Craig t:qan Off-campus 
Nov. 5, 1990 

Sports obsession drags ND down 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Edllor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....•.................• Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor .•..•.......•.. Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ...•.....••..••.•.•.. Greg Guffey Production Manager .............lisa Eaton Accent Editor .....•........... Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Umvers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pohc1es of. the adminiStration of. either institution. The news is reported as accurately and obiect1~ely as poss1ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majonty of the Ed1tor·m·Ch1ef, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ed1tor, Photo Ed1tor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, 1s encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Marching band should travel more often 
, Jhe Notre Dame Marching Band will travel Friday to lennessec to perform at Saturday's game. It is disappointiJ~g that this is the only regular season game the _baf!d will travel to, because Notre Dame fans enjoy havmg the band at the games. Fans have requested that the band travel to other parts of the country. 
The band ordinarilv travels to only one regular season game a year, and a bowl game, if the team is selected. ·~·he reasons f~r this infrequency, as stated by Luther Snavely, the Director of Bands, is budget, schedule and academics. 
Sna~ely states that the band budget only allows for one ov~rmght game a year, and nearly all of the budget is ben~g used to travl'l to .the Tennessee game. He contmucs that Notre Dames schedule does not allow the band to trav•'lto many away games because many of thn games arn played .in ·parts of the country which arc e~ptm~ive and difficult to travel to. Lastly. he says that w1th SIX home games to attend, students in the band cannot afford to devote any more weekends to playing at football games. 
These arc good reasons; however, some actions can be taken to allow the band to travel to more of the regular season games. 
True, it is expensive to travel to games on the coast like USC, Navy, or Stanford, but there are games i~ Notre Dame's vicinity that the band can drive to, such as Michigan or Michigan State. Soon Northwestern will be included in Notre Dame's schedule also. There should be no reason the band cannot drive to Chicago for this ga~e. It would not require band members to give up ent1re weekends, as they would be able to drive there and back in one day. They would therefore be able to dedicate Sunday to academics, if they chose to. 
Another J?Ossibility is to institute a traveling band. It could consist of a smaller group of volunteers, which would help to cut traveling expenses. The fans would be able to enjoy music from the marching band, and the team to have the band's support. 
Some members of the band advocate traveling to more regular season games. Band member John-Elson states. "Most of tht• students would like to go to at least one more away game .... there is no reason we shouldn't have gone to Michigan Statt~." 
Our marching band is one of' the best in the countrv. Si~ce the~ are always active in the game and the fans enJOY havmg them at the games, something should be done to allow them to travel to more regular season 
games. 
DOONESBURY 
HtAV&N5! WHAT A 
I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY 
TIMes IN OUR. HI5TORY A Wf</!!3-IN CANl?IPAT& HAS 
BlZN SE3NT TO CONG/?13$, BUT I'M JI.ET THRJUW BefONOWORIJS ' 
T08e()Nl3 OF THeM! 

Dear Editor: 
For once in my brief life, I lind myself in agreement with a point that Professor James J. Carberry brought up in his let­ter to the editor, "Sports Emphasis Explains Han king," (The ObsPrvcr, Nov. 5). 
While I disagrPe with th•~ vast 
_ majority of Professor Carberry's scatology, I must say that his "point #3'' concrrning athletes was oddly relevant to Notre Dame. Why do the sports pages comprise 30 to 50 percent of Thn Observer? When I asked an Observer editor, he replied, "Because it's what the students want to read about." When he told me this, r was not sur­prised that all the college rank-
I MU5THAV8 7H8 MOST 
lOYAL. f1?113N05 ON eAJ<TH/ 00 YOU I<NW WHATAU­
OF Y(XJ ARE~ IXJ YCV ~ 
""'"".::::':'·~ 

ings looked at "We are ND" and laughed. Why does this student body care about nothing but sports? Why can't we productively fill our own minds like Wt' fill Notre Dame Stadium? 
Why do new campus publica­tions like The Student Weekly waste valuable wood pulp by telling us what we don't already know (that is, the bloody college football results from across our nation)? Why do we spend thousands of dollars on scholarship money towards athletes, when other hard­working, financially strapped students are proudly told by the University that they were al­lowed two choices: a dining hall job or HOTC? Is it because wealthy alumni would rather see Notre Dame excel on the gridiron than in the gradebook? 
Don't get me wrong-I'm not here to totally bash Notre Dame. because I really like it here, and I love a good football game as well as the next per­son. While then~ arc many good, involvf'd people who ar;~ hnre for a solid Catholic educa­tion. it sPems that thern are many more who come here just for all the greed and glory that our obsession with athleties has brought us. It has dragged us ­down the sewer along with Professor Carberry's anti-intel­lectual diatribes. 
JeffJotz Fisher //all 
Nov. 5, 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'You're the only person you are screwing when you put down what you don't understand.' 
Hank Williams, Jr. 


r 
~. 
I. 
l. 
{ l {. 
(. 
r. 
( 
L 
l . 
r.. 
I. 
( 
I_ 
f­
f 
1. 
I 
l ' 
f 
r 
f 
( 
f 
~ 
{ 
(f 
'( 
~ 
'( 
~2 
~/ 
·( 
'f( 
·~
j
('(( 
. 
{C 
~{
J
1/ 
!· 



NOVEMBER 9 -11 
weekend calendar 
MUSIC Jester, The Coffeehouse, Grace Hall, 8:30p.m. 
The James Boys, WMRO, 9:30p.m. 
Z.B. T-Bone, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
THEATRE 
"Vatzlav,"O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. Tickets $6, $5 NO students, $4 SMC students. 
safli(,day
\ 
MUSIC Savoy Cruise, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. The James Boys, WMRO, 9:30p.m. 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra, featuring violinist Corey Cerovsek, Morris Civic Auditorium, 8 p.m. Tickets $8.50 -$25, $6 -$25 students. 
EVENTS 
Fiesta de las Americas, Knights of Columbus Hall, 9 p.m.­1 a.m. Tickets $5 single, $8 per couple. Open poetry reading, The Coffeehouse, Grace Hall, 
8:30p.m. Dlwall1990: Festival of Lights, Washington High School, 5 -11 p.m. Tickets $10, $8 students. 
THEATRE "Vatzlav," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. Tickets $6, $5 NO students, $4 SMC students. 
s 
y 
MUSIC The James Boys, WMRO, 9 p.m. Ensemble Les Nations,Annenberg Auditorium, 2 p.m. 
THEATRE "Vatzlav,"O'Laughlin Auditorium. Saint Mary's College, 
2:30 p.m. Tickets $6, $5 NO students, $4 SMC students. 
THURSDAY 
"A Shot In the Dark,"Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune, 8 & 10 p.m. 
FRIDAY "Pretty Woman," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. "Mystery Train,"Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 
SATURDAY "Pretty Woman," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. "Mystery Train," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 


Going to Tennessee? 
By ROBYN SIMMONS Assistant Accent Editor 
L 
ooking for a little Southern C01vfort-? You just might find some at the University of Tennessee, the site of the next Notre Dame football game and the last chance roadtrippers will have to drive out to see the Irish play this season. 
The University of Tennessee is located in Knoxville, Tennessee, and the drive down there is going to be a bit longer than a quick trip to Michigan State. Estimated driving time is 11 to 12 hours, depending on the amount of lead in the driver's foot. 
Roadtrippers should take US 31 south to I-65 and head south straight through Indiana and Kentucky until you reach Nashville, Tennessee. Pick up I­40 around Nashville and head straight east until you reach Knoxville. Travellers might want to take their chances driving directly to Knoxville via Indiana backroads, but there's no guarantee that this route will be faster than using the expressway. 
There are ample parking fa­cilities at UT, but the two large lots that will be available to vis­itors are not within walking distance to the stadium. Thest~ lots are west of the stadium on UT's Ag (short for Agricultural) Campus, right off of Neyland Drive. 
Students who want to drive directly to the parking lot from I-40 should pass the exit for University of Tennessee and get off at Exit 129, then exit on Neyland Drive and turn left to reach the parking facilities. The cost for parking is $3, and there will be shuttle buses run­ning from the lots to the sta­dium two and half hours before and after the game. The cost for taking the shuttle is $2. 
Although most students may not be able to afford a room at the Knoxville Hyatt Regency, they can show up there at 7 

p.m. on Friday for a pep rally sponsored by the Knoxville Alumni Club. 
UT is a fairly large university; it has 18,000 undergraduate and 6,200 graduate students. The 92,000 seat Neyland Stadium is the second largest college stadium in the nation. 
Knoxville has a metropolitan area population of more than 500,000, and the downtown area of Knoxville is just north of the UT campus. Although Knoxville has plenty to offer visitors as far as bars and restaurants are concerned, Notre Dame students might want to stay on campus after the game to take advantage of an aspect of college life that can't be found under the Golden Dome: frat parties. 
There are 24 fraternities at UT, and most frat houses are southwest of the stadium situ­ated along Fraternity Park Drive right off of Volunteer Boulevard. Other clusters of frat houses can be found west of the stadium on Melrose av­enue and between Lake and Terrace avenue. UT students would probably be the best source for locating the "party frats." 
For those students who have friends in UT frat houses and dorms, spending the night on campus might be an alternative to those who are willing to forego the more luxurious ac­commodations in downtown Knoxville. But Knoxville has more than enough hotels and motels at reasonable prices that finding a place to stay shouldn't be a problem. 
Since most Notre Dame road­trippers travel to Michigan or downstate to Purdue, the trip to Tennessee should be new ex­perience for even the most sea­soned travelers. In addition to that, it will be a lot cheaper than a trip to USC. 
GETTII 

Fraternity Legend 
1. 
Acacia 

2. 
Alpha Epsilon Pi (AEn) 

3. 
Alpha Gamma Rho (ArF 

4. 
Alpha Phi Alpha (A<l>A) 

5. 
Alpha Tau Omega (ATQ 

6. 
Beta Theta Pi (B0n) 



Good friends, good times ar 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER Accent Writer 
T 
ennessee? 546 miles crunched in a hatchback with seven of your closest friends. Eight hours (if you don't stop for ANY food) of wishing these people you love would have kept their shoes on. Even the keg will be warm after making such a roadtrip. 
Not to worry. Let the keg get warm and your stomach re­main empty because Tennessee's many restaurants and hoppin' bars will be wait­ing to welcome you and fill you up. 
Through the Volunteer's campus runs "The Strip." The Strip is actually Cumberland Avenue and is littHed with popular nite-lifP bars and rea­sonable restaurants. Here is a list of the most frequented by Tennessee students: 
O'Charley's -(1915 W. Cumberland Ave.) This restau­rant/bar provides live enter­tainment as well as cuisine ranging from seafood to chicken sandwiches. Happy Hour is from 2 p.m. -10 p.m. Monday through Sunday. Closing is at 3 p.m. This is one of two O'Charley's located on The Strip, the other being lo­cated a few miles to the west where Cumberland Ave. turns into Kingston Pike. 
Copper Cellar (1807 Cumberland Ave.) Two stories high, this unique restaurant bar has two menus. Upstairs is a casual and lively setting, while downstairs is more traditional with specials such as prime rib, seafood, steak and fish. The bar is open Monday -Thursday and Sunday until midnight and until 1 p.m. on Friday and Saturday. Happy Hour is 4-6 p.m. Monday 
-Thursday, and 3-5 p.m. on Friday. 
Ivy's -For those who like to dance to a different tune, Ivy's will have it. This off-beat bar tends to attract those who are out of the mainstream. 
Old College Inn -Similar to O'Charley's, the Old College Inn's specialty is its chicken sandwich. The menu consists mainly of finger foods and sandwiches at Old College prices. The bar does not, how­ever, contain live entertain­ment. 
The Library -Don't let the name fool you...this bar has no books! Live entertainment, however, it does have. 
Out-of Bounds -Relatively new, this bar also boasts of a comfortable deli-type restau­rant. 
Ruby Tuesday -For an award-winning gourmet burger, visit one of this now famous chain of restaurant bars in 


page 11 

.. 
A visitor's guide to the University of Tennessee. 
tG AROUND 
Fraternity areas are highlighted. 

~------------------~% 
Y2 
Park Dr.

l D~ 
J 
' '41111r­
7. Chi Phi (X<I>)  13. Lamba Chi Alpha (AXAl  
8. Delta Tau Delta (~TM  14. Phi Delta Theta (<1>~0)  
~)  9. Delta Upsilon (~ Y)  15. Phi Gamma Delta (<l>r~)  
10. Farmhouse (FH)  16. Phi Kappa Psi (<I>K'¥)  
:)  11. Kappa Alpha (KA)  17. Phi Kappa Tau (<I>KT)  
12. Kappa Sigma (K.E)  18. Phi Sigma Kappa (<I>.EK)  

19. Pi Kappa Alpha (nKA) 
20. Pi Kappa Phi (nK<I>) 

21. 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon (.EAE) 

22. 
Sigma Chi (.EX) 

23. 
Sigma Nu (.EN) 



24. Sigma Phi Epsilon (.E<I>E) 
The Observer/Alison Cocks, Michael Muldoon 

td Tennessee bars 
Places to crash 
Tennessee. The menu also under seven dollars, including extends to include Italian and their steak/chir.kPn fajita spe­Mexican cuisine. To see where cialty. For those who don't plan this chain began, try Huby to attend the game, Applebee's 
for the night 
Tuesday on 716 20th Street. has two large TV's. Happy Hour Dynasty Express -(1647 is from 4-7 p.m. all week. 
By COLLEEN CRONIN 3. Vols Inn at 2000 ChapmanCumberland Ave.) Chinese spe­Micha£>1's -(7049 Kingston Highway
Accent Editor 
cialties which can be delivered, Pike) Bar entertainment with a too. sound system. Michael's is open ON THE OUTSKIRTS: 
To the west and up from 3:30 p.m. -2:30 a.m. daily kay, you finally 4. Econo-Lodge at 6200 Cumberland Avenue, the road with a Happy Hour from 3-8 made it to Papermill Road will turn into Kingston Pike p.m. Monday through Friday. Tennessee, now all 5. Holiday Inn at 1315 Kirbywhere many more bars and Calhoun's -(10020 Kingston you need is a place Road 
restaurants are awaiting your Pike) For national award-win­to stay. No problem. 6. Comfort Inn on 1-75 at
0
arrival. If you are staying on ning Tennessee ribs, visit the There are plenty of inexpensive Merchants Road campus, its just a small hop in rustic farm decor and casual hotels and motels. Just remem­7. Day's Inn at 5634 the car to these places. atmosphere of this bar restau­
ber that the hotels around Merchants Center Boulevard 
However, Rodewav Inn, rant. :'<Jotre Dame hike up their rates 8. Howard Johnson's on 1-75 Holiday Inn, Red Roof tim and Surprise the students of on home football weekends and at Merchants Hoad Signiture Inn, among others, Tennessee by jamming into the same could be true in and 9. Red Carpet Inn at 503 
surround this lively area. So, if their favorite hang-outs. Or, around the University of Merchants Hoad you are planning on staying in a for those of you with low funds, Tennessee. 10. Best Wetern on I-40 at hotel, keep these in mind. Some don't worry -there are plenty IN THE 1:\fNER CITY: Cherry Street such restaurant/bars in the of McDonalds and Burger 1. Best Western at 1706 11. Budget ~1otel at 2801 East an~a an~: Kings to go around. Cumberland Avenut> Magnolia AvPnuP Appll'bet>'s ~l'ighborhood So dance. eat, be merry and 2. Expo Inn at 2016 Ailor 12 Quality Inn East at 4625 (}rill & Bar -(6928 Kingston CheN, ChePr for Old Notre Avenue Aslwville Highway!'ike) All 12 dinner itpms arP Dame! 

...._,

,·, page 12 The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1990 
The Catholic Church as the graveyard of Christianity 

• -1,.. ·•k 
:\;4;bu-yi§r~ ~lt..~ 7&$~~ 
!he .\fa< rruosh //11
fbt> .\faoruusb Qll!,sic 

'V:'ith Apple's introduction ofthree new giving you another tough subjecr to learn. Every Madntosh , NOTREDAME Madntoshscomputers, meeting the challenges ofcollege computer is easy to set up and even easier to master. And 
COMPUTER STORE

life just got awhole lot easier. Because now, everybody when you've learned one program, you're well on your 
can afford aMadntosh. way tolearningthem all.That's because thousands ofavail­
'· i 
Office of University Computing 

The is our most able programs all work in the same, consistent manner. 
Computing Center/Math Building affordablemodeLyetitcomeswitheverythingyou need­You can even share information withsomeone who uses a 
Phone: 239-7~77

including ahard disk drive.'Ihe MHMii\@dUI different type ofcomputer-thanks to Apple's versatile Hours: Mon.· Fri., 9:00 -5:00
combines color capabilities with affordability. And the SuperDrive~ which reads from and writes to Madntosh, NHSII!djdi!SI is perfecr for students who need a MS-OOS, OS/2, and Apple*II floppy disks. computer with extra powerand expandability. See the new Madntosh computers for yourself, 
No matter which Madntosh you choose, you'll and find out how surviving college just got awhole lot ,_ ~ 
~ The power to be your best~
•
have acomputer that lightens your work load without easier. 

Clt990 Apple Computer. InC. AQpe, rhe Apple togo, ancJ Mac:mlosh are nJOistered Uademark.s or Appeo Computer, Jnc:. 5upefOnve and "The J)OWI&f to be )lOUt best" are trademarks ol Apple Computer, k'lc. C&assfc is a reo1stered trademarlll:tcensed to Aw6e Compueer, InC MS·OOS ~a a regastered trademark of MK:roiOft Corpcnbon OS/2 ta a reg~stered trademattc ol tnternabonal Business Mactunes CorporatiOn 
I'm relieved to admit that I've almost shaken free of the Jesus-myth. I was hPartbroken for awhile, like a lad disap­pointed in love. Eventually, I discovered that nothing had changed for me as a priest: saying Mass has nothing to do with believing in God, if you don't want it to; and out of habit, I will probably always continue to pray. 
Prayer changes things, the saints say, meaning, "Prayer changes me." No saint has ever pretended to know whether prayer changes the mind or will of the God he believes in. Giving up prayer would be like giving up smoking: you would need to find something almost as good, like chewing gum, to take its place, if you didn't want to turn into a nervous wreck. Maybe there are drugs that comfort you more than prayer does; however, drugs cost money; but you can pray for nothing. 
It took me 50 yl:'ars to dis­cover that religion doesn't nec­essarily mean committing your­self to God, or Jesus Christ, or that ethereal prPscnce which tlw Pope calls the Holy Spirit. The handwriting on the wall has always lwnn tlwrc, either I didn't sec the words or couldn't undPrstand what they meant. 
God's ghost could have ap­pPared to nw saying: "Read my lips: 'I don't Pxist."' I would have thought it was tlw dPvil, tempting ml' to athPism. But onrn I found out that tlw :\pw TPstament is a pipP dream, I undPrstood that "Our Father. who art in h•·•n·pn" didn't havP a lPg to stand on as "thP \1an upstairs." 
AtlH'ists. in my book, havP 
, \ · 

that three two-ounce llubiPin miniatures or rotgut booze toFather Robert Griffin 
induce a crying jag when you're looking out the window of a Letters to a Lonely God 7 4 7, watching the sun setting the rloud-mass at the rim of the horizon on fire: it could 
always been smart-asses who camel shoving its nose under have been the twilight of the imagine that they are in the the tent, you can quickly lose gods I was seeing; but perhaps driver's seat, like the one-eyed your faith in innocence, your it was Valhalla. Instead of be­man who became king of the own or God's, and in the evan­ing the dress rehearsal for a hill, in the country of the blind. gelists whom you trusted to re­faith-crisis, that trip to O'Hare "Religion," they scoff, "is the veal God. endl'd as as a religious experi­opium of the people." This is I had a year of grace before ence. trite, but true as well as merci­finding out that grace is a fable "Who Do Men say that I ful. Didn't the Chinese man­that started with the fable of Am?" was the name of the arti­darins used to rely on opium to the Manger. Last August, flying cle in Notre Dame magazine keep a billion coolies from dis­home from England, I made my last August, blowing the lid off covering that they weren't get­first act of faith in doubt as a the allegedly divine revelation ting enough to eat? creed. Riding high in the sky, which introduced Jesus, making 
The first clue I got that the you quickly find that liquor His debut as the Suffering jig was up with the Christian concentrates the mind wonder­Servant, preparing to become Gospel was when a friend fully, as Dr. Johnson said about the Lord of Lords. Instead of started, as an investigative re­the prospect of being hanged: protecting their boy like his porter, to write a story on the and my drink for the road was next of kin, the scholars alleged founder of Christianity. a triple Manhattan. Once 1 showed Him up as a schlemiel My friend quickly found out started feeling weightless, whom the goyim deified; his that the pale Galilean has only floating free of gravity, as mothl'r couldn't nven givn him a one certifiable advantage over though I were no longer depen­fum•ral, becausl' His disciples the Tooth Fairy: Jesus is not dent on the plane to keep me lost the body. The invcstigativP imaginary; the odds are good airborne, I noticed that the reporter said: "Thl' truth is He probably existPd, and made flight deck had been silent ever that the rock whom thP 
llis living from mending fences. since we left Heathrow. and builders rPjertPd has a mrssiah 
Scholars, no matter how wondered if the plane were fly­complex, if you'll pardon me smart they are, only sort out ing on automatic pilot. for saying so and not hold a their prejudices and call them Computers. I thought, operated grudgP. sine!' I'm only the nws­erudition. I wasn't ready to by other computers, could givP sengcr, delivering the bad 
swear off Jpsus as tlw lover of this craft the option and free­nPWS." souls simply because the dom of self-motion, likl' a bird CrushPd by my loss. I started Catholic scholars have gottt•n that has a will of its own. rom­to turn into <HlP of thosr around to demythologizing plett>ly indPpendent of human whiskey priPsts who spend tlwir 
Jlim. liP was already demythol­control. lives <:ollapsPd on a bar stool. ogized wlwn I was introdun~d NPxt, I started conjPeturing looking p<wtic and tragic, likP to llim a boy going to whether the planet itself. along an Irish minstrPl boy who has
as a Protestant Sunday school. with the Church as a spinoff'. lost his harp. As a· priPst of But looking owr the shoulder could be on automatic pilot. Christ, whose Holy rPputation 
of an invPstigative reporter. switched on by th1:1 latl', great had been pickPd dPan by the you may start to give Him your YahwPh, when Ill' was a young dPmythologizers. likP birds of full atlPntion. Once doubt en­God finishing divinity school. prPy who fpast on swPat nwats. ters y~mr lifP likP the provPrbial llowpver, it takes more I want!'d to join tlw banslwPs 
Three newways to survive college. 
that wail at wakes, I wanted to 
bl' rcnwmbPn~d as a brooking 
Celt wh(J reminded passersby of 
a ruined temple. 
A man's soul is only made of 
pulp. like an uncooked turn-up; 
but it can weigh him down 
when it has turned to icc. 
Gradually. my soul defrosted; 
and I derided to trust it when it 
told me, "All's well with the 
Church. The Church has not 
been depPndent on Jesus for fif­
teen hundmd years." The reli­
gion becomes easier, one you 
stop feeling accountable to a 
Master Who will judge you. 
Freed of the myths, the teach­
ings are still there, and the 
commandment to love one an­
other is still valid. The Liturgy 
continues to add meaning to 
life. Everything stays in place 
like the resources of language 
which turn words into a poem. 
"The final proof of God's 
omnipotence is that He need 
not exist in order to save us," 
says Peter DeVries. 
The lov!'ly news is that the Grotto still works. Thn great earth mother who suckled Pan. thr nature god, and is grand­moth!'r to the Easter Bunny, has bePn appraring to Ill) corker spaniPI, Darby O'Gill. She's· b<'Pil promising him mira­cles that will fppd tlw multi­tudes of birdiPs and beastiPs: eabbagP patrhrs that will sur­vive tlw snow: acorns dropping from the harP trPI'S like manna: winter worms by the millions, making a raml'o appParancP. 
J'vf> almost shakPn loosP from thP .IPsus-myth: rvPry day I haw a good cry that's almost as n.freshing as prayer. WhPn you pray, you hop<' that SomPOIH' Up There is listPning: 
· . · · .· 

Thursday, November 8, 1990 page 13
The Observer 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds ... 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S. JOHN  
ND HOCKEY IS LOOKING FORNOTICES ) AN ORGANIST OR PEP BAND  WANTED: 2 TICKETS TENNESSEE vs NOTRE DAME,  271-0452.  PSU tix needed: studs or GA's call 288-2195  BELIEVE IT Ofl NOT­BEER CAN FREEZE!  
FOR HOME GAMES. 239-5050.  NOV. 1OTH. CALL COLLECT  sell your PENN ST. STUD TIX  
TYPING AVAILABLE  (704) 322-3709 ASK FOR MARK.  NEED: PENN ST. GA's call TRACY @273-9033  Need 4 Penn State GA's.  for $$$. Matt X4235  
287-4082 Need ride FOR 2 to PIIT for  Call Pete x1097.  
THANKS. break Diane x4902  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Need 2 G.A. and 4 student tix  
JUST SAY NO! Buy/Sell used books at Pandora's Books, corner of NO ave. & FOR RENT  Wealthy Physician to Pay Big Bucks for PENN STATE G.A.'s or STUDS x 1935 ask for Alex  Help! Please sell me two Penn St. GA's -call Karen at 271-1893  NEED PENN. STATE GA's LOTS OF 'EM!! 284-4350  for Penn State Call Maureen 284-5402  
Howard. 233-2342  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
I need Penn ST. stud  I NEED TWO PENN STATE G.A.'s  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  call Tim x1416  CALL STEVE AT 273-9471.  
GRADUATE STUDENTS 219-291-7153  HELP -I need PSU GA's  My friends hate Penn State!!  
FACULTY  PLEEEAASE call Beth at  Sell me tickets so they can see the  
STAFF  288-0597  beating  
THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB NEAR N.D. Duplex available.  I NEED PENN ST. GA'S  Students or Ga's  I NEED 4 PENN ST GA's  
IS OPEN exclusively TO YOU! 1 bdrm-$265  PLEASE CALL X2049  Call John @3024  CALL JOHN x4141  
FRIDAY 5:00PM-9:00PM 2 bdrm-$360 NO COVER CHARGE! dep.. references 616-483-9572.  I need MANY Penn State GAs, preferably in groups. Call Paula­283-4096.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$N  
LOST/FOUND FEMALE NEEDED TO SHARE 2  I NEED PENN ST & Tenn  EEDED DESPERATELY! Two Penn State Student Tix. Call Jon Paul at X4115.  I need Tennessee tickets and PSU GA's HELP !!!!! Call 288-0597  I REALLY NEED 2 PENN ST. G.A.s. CALL X1479, VINCE  
BEDROOM APT AT TURTLE  tixs.272-6306  
>>>LOST<<< CREEK AVAL. UNTIL MAY  Need 2 Penn St. GA"s. Call John  
BRACELET OF GOLD LEITERS 273-9406 OR 283-2805  Need 4 Penn State GA"s call  SELL YOUR PSU STUDS/GAS &  (x1177).  
which spell  at 2786; if not in leave message  I'LL LOVE YOU LIKE YOU'VE  
I LOVE YOU  Need 4 USC tix Carrie x4355  NEVER BEEN LOVED. I'LL ALSO  
Obvious sentimental value  PAY YOU LIKE YOU'VE NEVER  Need GA's for PENN STATE. Call  
REWARD Single 2-Room Apt. Cheap  PENN GAs 4 Sale  BEEN PAID  Julie at 3505!  
288-7976 15 min. Walking from Campus  Need stud tix for Penn St. Call  272-9770  MIKE #1223  
Avail. Dec. 1 -May 31  Geoff at 271-5686.  
Bob x3234  
LOST: A  NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's.  NEED TENNESSEE TIX; please  
Gold Nugget Bracelet on Fri. 11/2 somewhere between P. W. and the FOR SALE  Penn State GA's please. Paige x2980.  WILL TRADE 2 TENN. OR PAY$. CALL KATHY AT 284-5159.  Need 2 Penn St. GA's for visiting grandparents who will spend BIG  call Tim 912-750-0890.  
lake. Please return -great  $$$  
sentimental value!  Call Pat x1900  We need LOTS of  
••••••REWARD...... One-Way air ticket to/from  I need 4 GA's for Penn State!  PARENTS NEED 2 PENN STATE  Penn St. GA's!  
call Kate or Amy at 4550. South Bend. to/from Phila.. N.Y.C.. or Wash.D.C.; good  Sandy x4121  GAs! WILL PAY BIG$$$. CALL RAJA AT x1678.  NEEDED: 2 PENN STATE GAs  Call Sara or Barb x4419  
anytime except holidays;  CALL MARY X1727  
Lost -on 11/3 Dark red and black $100, Mike288-2083  
camera -35mm-dropped by the  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  ··wE NEED..  I NEED PENN ST TIX  
Grotto or on the shuttle. If you  $$$$$$$$$$  PENN STATE  Need 2 Penn St GA's  REBECCA X4329  
picked it up. please call Jenny 89 Cavalier Sports Coupe  $1 need Penn State GA's and  TIX!  Call Tim x1368  
284-4055. red-stereo-clean  students. $  X4079  
best offer 2729770 LOST: On Nov. 6. a gold  $Call Mark at 2506. $ $  NEED PSU GA'S TOM 234-8608  Need 4 Penn St GA's. Call x2891.  PERSONALS I_  
pendant, possibly on Stepan AIRLINE ROUND TRIP  $  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
Fields, but it could be VOUCHER. $150!!! TRAVEL  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  hiag  
anywhere on campus. It's a MUST BE COMPLETED BY DEC.  $$$$$$$$$$  NEEDGA'S  
dove with three circles 19. FOR MORE INFO CALL  PENN & USC  
around it, and it's about half KELLY AT 284-4422.  We need Penn State GA's  272-9770  Adoption: A caring, devoted  
an inch tall and half an inch  NEED PSU STUD TKTS  Please call 284-5239  professional couple wishes to give  
wide. Please call Elizabeth  CALL 1363  newborn all the advantages of a  
at 4097! I HAVE STUDENTS AND GA'S  NEEDED: Two GAs and four  loving, secure home. Expenses  
FOR MOST GAMES CALL GIVE  HELP NEED TKTS ALL GAME  student tix for Penn State.  paid. Call Joan/John collect (212)  
NAME GAME AND PRICE 273­ BOTH STUDENTS AND GA'S  Call Matt at 288-7568.  496-0661.  
..REWARD.. 1364  NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's  CALL 273-1364  
I lost my RED PLAID  GWEN X1327  
UMBRELLA on Sunday 10/21  NEE!;> PENN ST. GA'S AND  HELP  
in Hesburgh library. VERY high  need 2 TN ga's Rick x1750  STUD.  NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND  
sentimental value (plus. · Plane ticket to Boston for sale:  CALL JOHN 234-5840  AREA FOR THANKSGIVING  
it is unique and I would L-11/20 R-11/25 definitely recognize it!) Please call ....ONLY $19o:•••••  I need your help.  WILL HELP PAY GAS/TOLLS CALL DAVE X1955 .  
2983 with info Please call x4809 NOA. I really need my umbrella! ..REWARD.. FOR SALE  My high school teacher is a graduate from Indiana University . He's was pretty cool.  Sell me 4 PENN ST. GAs and I'll be happy! Cristin x3857  HELP! I NEED 2 GAs FOR PENN STATE. PLEASE CALL ALFRED@ 1563  ATIENTION!I!!! One black and gold watch lost at  
Magnavox Wordprocessor  I need at least twc tickets to the  I need all the tickets that you  the girls flag football playoff  
Found at Miami game: $375 nego. -one shoe Tom x1763 -one pair of sunglasses  IU/ND basketball game for him and a friend. (G.A. or stud tix). Please ....  can sell me tor the Tennessee­N.D. game. Call Phil at 1436 or leave a message.  PLEASE HELP! I NEEEEED PENN ST. GA'S JILL X 4852  games on Sunday at Stepan field. If you have any information about it please call Anne at 288-0597.  
Call Man @3472 to identity.  
1984 Chevy Cargo Van -only  Give me a call and we can make a  
31,749 miles-$1500 or best otter  deal. Cris @4842  I need two Penn St. GAs and one  ATIENTION ALL LEWIS  
-call Kathleen or Shirley at 239­ I need two tickets tor Penn State.  stud. Call Darrell at 283-3302.  CHICKENS!!!!!  
WATCH NEAR STONEHENGE. 7471  GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409.  
CALL LEN AT 277-9373 TO  It was a great season -too bad it  
IDENTIFY.  I need FOUR PENN GA'S tor rich  PLEASE I really  had to end so soon.  
··········cream Puw·····........ Lost: 11/3-A double-stranded  alum. Will pay good money. Call Corey@ 1351  I need two tickets tor Penn State, GA's or STUD. Call Dan at 1409.  PLEASE need PLEASE PENN STATE PLEASE tix  Everybody remember, as one of our "beloved" coached would say, to always be  
pearl bracelet with two clear For Sale:  PLEASE call Kate @4071  "INTELECTUAL AND  
stones somewhere between P.E. Dodge Custom Van, in good  PLEASE THANKS!!  ATHELETIC" !!!!!!!!!!!1!!11!  
and Carroll or in the haunted shape. highway miles  Need  NEED 1 PENN ST STUD OR GA  -The 3rd String Guard  
house. It's not real. so it has no Wall to wall interior carpeting.  two  TIX FOR UTILE SIS PLEASE! I  
real value except that my little Call Mark @2506  Penn  CALL SARAH 2815  I NEED PENN ST. TIX.  
sister gave to me tor Christmas. If  State  STUDENT  Tickets for  
found, please call Cheryl at 4321.  GAs.  OR GA'S-DOUG X1852  
PLANE TICKET TO ST. LOUIS FOR SALE! ! ! !  Jay x2290  I need Penn St tix  "Fiesta de las Americas"  
LOST LOST A brown leather L 11/21 R 11/25  Jeff x3320  $$$$ Needed $$$$  go on SALE Tuesday night.  
FOSSIL WATCH with a brown ONLY $140.00  Penn State Std.'s and GA.'s  They will also be available at the  
granite face was lost in La Fortune Call Tony Judge at 287-4232  WANTED: PENN ST GAs  Ed@ 277-8974 or Jon X4022  door, Saturday night.  
on Nov. 6 sometime between 8pm and leave message.  HEY HEY HEY!  277-7684  
and 12am. I would really like to get it back because it was a gift  Make my day Sell me two Penn GA's  Need tix for PENN ST. GAME.  I need your help.  
from my Mom!! I'd really ACOUSTIC GUITAR. MUST  NEEDED:  Will pay anything!!! Please Call  Do you own an American Express  
appreciate it if you would please SELL, OWE COLUMBIAN DRUG  Thanks! X3821  PENN ST. AND TENN.  Kerry at 284-5073 and leave  Card?  
call Karen 284-5023. LORDS.  TICKETS John 289-9654  message!!!  
X2645 HELP~~=~.,,..L~~::::nc:::K:ET::s:~~~,wkly. Easy work, FT/PT, start  PLEASE! I need 2 Penn State GA's. $$Call 4431  NEED 3 PENN STATE STUD. TIX CALL JIM AT X1910 OR X1911  Need One Stud. Ticket for Penn St. call MAIT x2052 NEED PENN ST. TIX -2 GAs &  Do you have a travel voucher you will not be using? A friend from high school invited me to his semi-formal at his college. I don't know how I'm going to get  
immediately. Work at home. For your ga's to all  Need Penn St Stud & GAs  3 STUDS -or 5 GAs  there.  
info send SASEto: home games.  HAVE 4 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST  Todd x1724  Call Kathleen x2607  
VicKorp, P.O. Box 750, Notre Call tom x1597.  BEST OFFER 271-0999  If you won't be using your travel  
Dame, IN 46556.  PSU GAs FOR SALE  BIG brothers coming and I need  voucher, maybe we can make a  -"  
HAVE 1 ST. NEED 2 GA"S FOR  x3028 or x2546  Penn State tickets! 3 GAs! $$$  deal!  
4 PENN ST. GA'S needed PENN ST. TONY x1590  Caryn 289-9417  
call Chris 3419  NEED 2 TENN TICKETS X2373  Need 1 Penn Stud  Best time to call: 5-7pm.  Call Cris @ X4842  
Amy x1343  thanx.  
Earn $300 to $500 per week WINDCHILL  
Reading Books at home. Call FROSTBITE  $$$$$  Please: I need 2 Penn St. GA's for  HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!  
1-615-473-7440 Ext. B 340. NOV17  $$$$$  seriously depressed relative! Joe  H  
PENN ST  Need 5 USCtix  X1599  STERJESTERJESTERJESTERJE  
LIVE OFF CAMPUS ! Need I say more?  Call Arthur x1610  I need 2 Penn State GA's  s  
it's cheap, safe & close to ND Ryan need 2 stud tix  Call Katie x3771  A!HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!HAIHA!HA!H  
we're looking tor 2 more x1048  $$$$$  I need 2-4 Penn State GA's. call  
housemates 271-9901  $$$$$  John at 288-1768  see CLASS I page 7  

).'I 
.\,' ,. page 14 The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1990 
Scoreboard 
NFL STANDINGS  NHL STANDINGS  
All Times EST  All Times EST  
AMERICAN  CONFERENCE  WALES  CONFERENCE  
East Buffalo Miami N.Y. Jets Indianapolis New England Central  w 7 7 4 2  L 1 5 6 7  T 0 0 0 0 0  Pet. .875 .875 .444 .250 .125  PF 229 175 175 112 120  PA 136 93 199 186 244  Patrick Division NY Rangers Washington New Jersey Philadelphia Pittsburgh NY Islanders  w 12 10 9 9 8 6  L 6 7 6 7 6 10  T 0 0 1 0 1 0  Pis 24 20 19 18 17 12  GF 75 56 62 62 70 46  GA 45 51 54 55 59 67  Home 9-2-0 5-2-0 7-1-1 5-3-0 5-3-0 3-5-0  Away 3-4-0 5-5-0 2-5-0 4-4-0 3-3-1 3-5-0  Olv 4-3-0 4-4-0 5-4-0 2-5-0 6-3-0 3-5-0  
Cincinnati Pittsburgh Houston Cleveland West LA Raiders Kansas City San Diego Denver Seattle NATIONAL East  5 5 4 2 6 5 4 3 3 CONFERENCE w  4 4 5 7 2 3 5 5 5 L  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 T  .556 .556 .444 .222 .750 .625 .444 .375 .375 Pet.  212 171 194 128 154 176 195 190 158 PF  225 147 169 235 108 121 156 205 166 PA  Adams Division Boston 9 Montreal B Bulfalo 5 Hartlord 4 Quebec 3 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division w St. Louis 10 Chicago 10 Detroit 7 Minnesota 3 Toronto 2  5 7 6 8 10 L 4 6 6 9 14  2 2 4 3 3 T 1 1 3 4  20 18 14 11 9 Pts 21 21 17 10 5  48 53 47 34 41 GF 53 53 61 42 45  52 52 47 49 65 GA 40 38 63 60 84  6-1-0 5-2-1 2-2-3 3-3-2 1-5-2 Home 4-1-1 7-3-0 7-1-0 2-2-2 2-6-1  3-4-2 3-5-1 3-4-1 1-5-1 2-5-.1 Away 6-3-0 3-3-1 0-5-3 1-7-2 0-B-0  3-1-1 4-2-1 2-4-3 2-3-2 1-2-3 DIY 4-1-1 4-2-0 3-1-2 0-5-2 2-4-1  
I 'I 1  N.Y. Giants Washington Philadelphia Dallas Phoenix Central Chicago Tampa Bay Detroit  8 5 4 3 2 7 4 3  0 3 4 6 6 1 5 5  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  1.000 .625 .500 .333 .250 .875 .444 .375  195 185 199 119 103 199 163 206  103 141 172 180 195 102 208 220  Smythe Division Calgary 11 6 Los Angeles 10 4 Vancouver 8 7 Winnipeg 6 9 Edmonton 2 9 Wednesday's Games Boston 2, Montreal 0 N.Y. Rangers 6, Buffalo 2  0 1 0 1 2  22 21 16 13 6  73 66 48 50 32  51 46 49 51 39  7-1-0 6-1-1 5-3-0 4-4-0 2-5-1  4-5-0 4-3-0 3-4-0 2-5-1 0-4-1  5-1-0 3-2-1 2-4-0 5-3-1 0-5-2  
Green Bay Minnesota  3 2  5 6  0 0  .375 .250  147 177  180 181  N.Y. Islanders 6. New Jersey 3 Thursday's Games  
West  Calgary at Philadelphia. 7:35 p.m.  
San Francisco  8  0  0  1.000  198  138  St. Louis at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m.  
Atlanta  3  5  0  .375  208  221  Vancouver at Toronto, 7:35p.m.  
LA Rams  3  5  0  .375  191  227  Edmonton at Chicago. 8:35p.m.  
New Orleans  3  5  0  .375  136  157  Quebec at Minnesota. 8:35 p.m.  
Detroit at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m.  
Sunday's  Games Pittsburgh 21, Atlanta 9  Friday's Games Vancouver at Buffalo, 7:35p.m.  
New York Jets 24, Dallas 9  N.Y. Rangers at New Jersey, 7:45p.m.  
Philadelphia 48, New England 20  Hartlord at Winmpeg. 8:35 p.m.  
New Orleans 21. Cincinnati 7  
Miam1 23. Phoenix 3 Kansas City 9. Los Angeles Raiders 7  TRANSACTIONS  
San Francisco 24, Green Bay 20  
. I I I  Washington 41, Detroit 38, OT Buffalo 42, Cleveland 0 Chicago 26, Tampa Bay 6 Los Angeles Rams 17, Houston 13 San Diego 31, Seattle 14 Minnesota 27, Denver 22 Monday's Game New York Giants 24. Indianapolis 7 Sunday, Nov. 11 Atlanta at Chicago. 1 p.m. Indianapolis at New England, 1 p.m. Miami at New York Jets. 1 p.m. Minnesota at Detroit, 1 p.m. Phoenix at Buffalo. 1 p.m. Seattle at Kansas City. 1 p.m. Tampa Bay at New Orleans, 1 p.m. Denver at San Diego, 4 p.m. Green Bay at Los Angeles Raiders. 4 p.m. New York Giants at Los Angeles Rams. 4 p.m. San Francisco at Dallas. 8 p.m. OPEN DATES: Cincinnati, Cleveland, Houston. Pitlsburgh Monday, Nov. 12 Washington at Philadelphia. 9 p.m.  BASEBALL American League TEXAS RANGERs-Named Bobby Jones manager ol Tulsa of the Texas League. TORONTO BLUE JAY5-Acquired Alex Sanchez. pitcher. from the Cleveland Indians lor Willie Blair, pitcher: and Nate Cromwell. pitcher, from the Atlanta Braves lor Earl Sanders. pitcher. FOOTBALL National Football League CINCINNATI BENGAL5-Piaced David Fulcher, safety. on injured reserve. Activated Eric Thomas, cornerback, from injured reserve. LOS ANGELES RAM5-Waived Curt Warner. running back. Placed MICkey Sutton. cornerback, on injured reserve. Activated Clifford Hicks. cornerback. from the physically-unable-to­perform list. MINNESOTA VIKING5-Signed D.J. Dozier. running back.  NEW ENGLAND PATRIOT5-Released Bob White. center. Placed Eric Sievers. tight end. on injured reserve. Activated Chris Gannon. defensive end, from injured reserve. PHOENIX CARDINALs-Re-signed Craig Patterson. nose tackle. to the practice roster. PITISBURGH STEELER5-Activated Karl Dunbar. defensive end. from the physically­unable-to-perform list. SEATILE SEAHAWK5-Announced that Terry Wooden. linebacker. will miss the rest of the season with a torn anterior cruciate knee ligament. HOCKEY National Hockey League NEW YORK ISLANDERs-Sent Wayne McBean. delenseman. to Capital District of the American Hockey League. ST. LOUIS BLUE5-Recalled Michel Mongeau. center. from Peoria of the International Hockey League.  SOCCER Major Soccer League TACOMA STAR5-Fired Kent Russell. general manager. Named Mike VandenKolk. general manager. COLLEGE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICs-Announced the retirement of Charles Morris, associate executive director. effective Jan. 1 NYU-Named Nancy Pajer women's assistant basketball coach.  
NBA STANDINGS  AFC INDIVIDUAL LEADERS  .  NFC INDIVIDUAL LEADERS  
All Times  EST  Quarterbacks  Att  Com  Yds  TO  lnt  Quarterbacks  All  Com  Yds  TD  lnt  
EASTERN  CONFERENCE  Kelly. Buff.  212  136  1651  12  6  Simms. Giants  166  107  1337  to  2  
Atlantic  Division  Moon. Hou.  374  229  2830  19  11  Montana. S.F.  306  193  2545  19  9  
~i ~ .  Boston Philadelphia Miami Washington New York  w 3 2 1 1 1  L 0 1 t 1 2  Pet. 1.000 .667 .500 .500 .333  GB 1 1 112 1 112 2  Schroeder. L.A. Bnster, Pitt. DeBerg, K.C. Marino. Mia. Elway, Den. Trudeau. Ind.  175 206 232 245 238 144  93 123 127 150 135 84  1474 1488 1647 1595 1712 1078  8 13 9 9 7 6  4 8 3 7 6 6  Harbaugh. Chi. Cunningham. Phil. Miller,Atl. Everett. Rams Peete. Del Testaverde. T.B.  147 259 257 276 149 186  92 152 153 155 81 110  1256 1905 1970 2125 1060 1613  7 15 13 15 8 10  4 7 7 7 3 9  
I  New Jersey  0  3  .000  3  O'Brien. Jets  247  131  1704  7  4  Walsh. Daii.-N.O.  118  68  796  5  5  
I.  Central Division Atlanta  3  0  1.000  Esiason. Gin.  263  146  1893  15  13  Majkowski. G.B.  225  125  1587  7  10  
I  Detroit  2  1  .667  1  Rushers  Rushers  
Indiana Milwaukee  2 2  1 1  .667 .667  1 1  Butts. S.D.  All 159  Yds 713  Avg 4.5  LG 42  TO 6  Johnson. Phoe.  Att 150  Yds 632  Avg 4.2  LG 35  TO 3  
Charlotte  2  2  .500  1 112  Humphrey. Den.  133  665  5.0  37  4  Anderson. Chi.  142  626  4.4  52  9  
Cleveland  2  2  .500  1 112  Thomas. Buff.  115  623  5.4  60  4  B.Sanders. Det  120  562  4.7  45  7  
Chicago  1  3  .250  2112  Okoye, K.C  162  556  3.4  32  4  G.Anderson. T.B.  119  497  4.2  22  3  
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division  Fenner. Sea. Stephens, N.E.  105 121  457 446  4.4 3.7  28 22  7 1  Cunningham. Phil. Anderson. Giants  166 122  482 470  7.3 3.9  52 28  3 7  
w  L  Pel.  GB  Smith. Mia  114  431  3.8  27  6  E.Smith. Dati.  117  428  3.7  22  4  
San Antonio Dallas Utah Houston  2 3 1 1  0 1 1 2  1.000 .750 .500 .333  1 1 112  Hoge. Pitt. Word, K.C. Brooks. Gin.  124 64 85  426 401 394  3.4 6.3 4.6  20 53 35  2 2 3  Byner. Wash Gary, Rams Riggs. Wash.  105 99 100  420 408 395  4.0 4.1 4.0  16 23 20  1 6 5  
M1nnesota  1  3  .250  2  Receivers  Receivers  
Orlando Denver  0 0  3 4  .000 .000  2112 3  Givins. Hou.  NO 46  Yds 662  Avg 14.4  LG BO  TO 5  Rice. S.F  NO 50  Yds 859  Avg 17.2  LG 64  TO 10  
Pacific Division  Duncan, Hou.  44  490  11.1  31  0  Rison. Atl.  49  778  15.9  75  8  
Portland  3  0  1.000  Hill, Hou.  42  617  14.7  40  4  Ellard. Rams  47  765  16.3  50  3  
Seattle LA Clippers  2 2  0 1  1.000 .667  1/2 1  JeHires. Hou. Raed, Buff.  41 40  451 520  11.0 13.0  35 43  3 3  Byars. Phil. Novacek. Dati.  43 39  421 420  9.8 10.8  25 29  0 3  
Phoenix Golden State  2 2  1 2  .667 .500  1 1 1/2  Williams, Sea. A.Miller. S.D.  40 35  345 566  8.6 16.2  30 31  0 5  Clark, Wash. A.Carter. Minn.  38 37  608 528  16.0 14.3  43 56  4 5  
LA Lakers  0  2  .000  2112  Bantley, Ind.  35  355  10.1  73  1  Monk. Wash.  35  433  12.4  44  1  
Sacramento Tuesday's Games  0  3  .000  3  Pa~ge. K.C. Brooks. Ind.  34 34  539 401  15.9 11.8  83 68  2 2  Sharpe, G.B. Martin. Dall.  34 34  602 358  17.7 10.5  76 24  3 0  
Charlotte 113, New Jersey 105  
Indiana 98, Minnesota 96  Punters  Punters  
Milwaukee 106. Miami 94 Dallas 96. New York 91  Stark, Ind.  NO 33  Yds t478  LG 57  Avg 44.8  Landeta. Giants  NO 30  Yds 1343  LG 56  Avg 44.8  
Cleveland 102. Orlando 95  Horan, Den.  24  t054  58  43.9  Camarillo. Phoe.  35  1559  63  44.5  
Boston ttO, Chicago 108 Houston 145. Denver 135 Seattle 100. Detroit 92  Hansen. N.E. Johnson. Cin. Donnelly, Sea.  39 36 29  1671 1537 t217  69 70 51  42.8 42.7 42.0  Arnold, Det. Saxon, Dall. Barnhardt. N.O.  35 43 33  t534 1884 1410  59 60 65  43.8 43.8 42.7  
f J  ~..'\  Golden State t30, LA Clippers 109 Portland 125, LA Lakers 123. OT Atlanta 102. Sacramento 85 Wednesday's Games  Prokop. Jets Roby, M1a. Gossett, Raiders Stryzinski. Pitt.  36 34 31 43  1502 1397 1210 1668  58 59 54 51  41.7 41.1 39.0 38.8  Fulhage. All. Royals. T.B. Feagles. Phil. Newsome. Minn.  30 37 34 37  1265 1542 1409 1527  59 62 60 55  42.2 41.7 41.4 41.3  
Late Game Not Included Cleveland 100, Charlotte 89  Kidd, S.D, Wagner. Clev.  34 45  1316 1740  59 58  38.7 38.7  English. Rams  31  1260  58  40.6  
Dallas 104, Philadelph•a 101  Punt  Returners  
Chicago 96. Minnesota 91 San Antonio 161, Denver 153 Phoenix 126. Golden State 119 Detroit at LA Clippers, (n) Thursday's Games  Punt Returners Woodson, Pitt. Price. Cin. Verdin. Ind.  NO 21 19 11  Yds 229 185 90  Avg 10.9 9.7 8.2  LG 52 66 36  TO 1 1 0  Megg·,tt. Giants Gray, Del. Ouety. G.B. Sutton. Rams  NO 20 20 21 14  Yds 255 208 207 136  Avg 12.8 t04 9.9 9.7  LG 68 39 25 22  TO 1 0 0 0  
_,.  Washmgton at New York, 7:30p.m. M1ami at New Jersey. 8 p.m. Philadelphia at Milwaukee. 8:30 p.m. Orlando at Houston. 8:30p.m. San Antomo at Utah. 9:30p.m. Friday's Games Chicago at Boston, 7:30 p.m.  Worthen. K.C. T.Brown. L.A Hale, Buff Adams. Clev. Mart1n. M1a McNeil. Hou.  21 19 10 12 23 13  165 146 76 85 133 56  7.9 7.7 7.6 7.1 5.8 4.3  37 39 25 25 35 10  0 0 0 0 0 0  Taylor. S.F. Sikahema. Phoe. VBuck, N.O. Bailey. Chi. Drewrey. T.B. Stanley. Wash.  11 17 17 21 13 23  100 150 132 156 93 161  9.1 8.8 7.8 7.5 7.2 7.0  30 20 16 15 16 32  0 0 0 0 0 0  
Cleveland at lnd1ana. 8 p.m  Kickoff Returners  Kickoff Returners  
Charlotte at Minnesota. 8 p.m. Milwaukee at washington, 8 p.m.  Woodson, Pitt.  NO 17  Yds 397  Avg 23.4  LG 49  TO 0  Walker. Minn  NO 23  Yds 546  Avg 23.7  LG 47  TO 0  
Orlando at Dallas. 8:30 p.m Saattle at Denver, 9:30p.m. Atlanta at Golden State. 10:30 p.m.  D.Smith. Buff Warren. Sea. Worthen, K.C.  13 14 10  299 309 215  23.0 22.1 21.5  38 71 32  0 0 0  Meggett. Giants Gray. Det. Wilson. G.B.  15 21 16  340 474 357  22.7 22.6 22.3  33 65 36  0 0 0  
Sacramento at LA Lakers. 10:30 p.m.  RBrown. LA  12  246  20.5  34  0  Sanders. All.  19  415  21.8  30  0  
Detroit at Portland. 10:30 p.m.  Martin. N.E.  21  427  20.3  38  0  Sikahema, Phoe.  16  345  21.6  32  0  
Lov111e. Sea.  11  207  18.8  26  0  Peebles. T.B.  17  359  21.1  55  0  
Overton. N.E.  10  188  18.8  23  0  Fenerty. N.O.  18  374  20.8  58  0  
Metcaff. Clev  30  561  18.7  98  1  Dixon. Dall  26  537  20.7  40  0  
Grant. Ind.  15  280  18.7  29  0  DelpinO, Rams  14  278  19.9  38  0  
Mathis, Jets  21  392  18.7  32  0  

Thursday, November 8, 1990 The Observer page 15 
SuperBowl for Arizona? Not. Golf fights cholesterol 
NEW YORK (AP) -NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue summarily pulled the 1993 Super Bowl out of Phoenix on Wednesday after Arizona voters rejected a proposal to make a holiday of Martin Luther King's birthday. 
"I do not believe that playing Super Bowl XXVII in Arizona is in the best interests of the National Football League," Tagliabue said after the Arizona electorate rejected by 15,000 votes of nearly 1 million cast a proposal to make a holiday of the slain civil rights leader's birthday. 
While Tagliabue's statement doesn't make the move official, it's expected that most if not all of the 28 NFL teams will go along with his recommendation. A total of 21 votes are necessary to move the game, which will probably go to San Diego, Los Angeles or San Francisco, the other cities that bid for it. 
"I can't imagine that people won't go along with the commissioner," said Norman Braman, owner of the Philadelphia Eagles and chairman of the Super Bowl site selection committee. "I think it's tragic for the people who worked so hard to get the game there. But I think it would be an affront to our public and our players if the game is played in Phoenix," 
An estimated 60 percent of NFL players are black and the league has been highly sensitive in recent years to calls to add minorities to its coaching and front-office staffs. Art Shell of the Los Angeles Raiders, appointed last season, is the only black head coach in the league and there are no black general managers. 
Phoenix was chosen to host the game last March, although both Tagliabue and Braman said at the time that the league could change its position if there was no holiday to honor King. 
It was with that in mind that the Arizona legislature ended nearly two decades of divisive debate last year by passing a bill making the third Monday in January Martin Luther King­Civil Rights Day in Arizona, one of three states without such a law. 
But King Day opponents, led by impeached former Gov. Evan Mecham, circulated petitions to force a referendum on the issue. A similar petition drive 
You 

had stalled implementation of another bill passed in 1989 that created a King holiday but did away with the state's Columbus Day holiday to keep state employees from getting an additional day off. 
\ 

Both issues appeared on Tuesday's ballot and both were rejected. The King Day for Columbus Day swap was turned down by a 3-1 margin and the holiday without the swap lost by fewer than 15,000 votes. 
"This is one of the worst blows we've had in a long time," said Gov. Rose Mofford. "This means more to Arizonans than anything I know of. This will be hard to overcome for many years." 
Mrs. Mofford said that in addition to losing the Super Bowl, the defeat of the holiday would cost the state millions in lost convention business. She also said it sends the wrong message about Arizona's racial attitudes. 
Mecham, however, called it "a moral victory for the ones who didn't want it." 
WASHINGTON (AP) -If your best driving performance is in the golf cart, you may be playing the game wrong. Two researchers say you could do your circulatory system more good if you make the trip on foot. 
Walking a course regularly lowers cholesterol levels, and therefore may decrease the risk of heart disease, the experts concluded. 
"We need to reassess the value of this sport," said the report in a medical magazine, The Physician and Sportsmedicine. 
Researchers Edward A. Palank and Ernest H. Hargreaves Jr. of the New Hampshire Heart Institute in Manchester looked at 28 average but enthusiastic male golfers. The men ranged in age from 48 to 80 and had not exercised in the previous four months. 
In the study, the golfers walked about 14 miles a week by playing an average of three times a week from mid-May to mid-September of 1989, always on an 18­hole course and generally with a pullcart, although some carried a light bag. 
The golfers lowered their total cholesterol by an average of 17 milligrams per deciliter of blood, the study said. The low-density lipoprotein fraction of their cholesterol, the so-called "bad" cholesterol associated with higher risk of heart disease, fell by an average of 
13.2 mgdl, it said. Both are "very significant" decreases, the report said. 
However, the level of high­density lipoprotein -the so­called "good cholesterol" associated with a lower risk of heart disease -did not change significantly, the report said. 
That's because a golfer's desire to stop and hit the ball keeps getting in the way of his workout, said Palank, a cardiologist. It takes a vigorous, sustained aerobic workout to improve HDL, he said in an interview. 
Just the same, the study demonstrates the sport has health value, provided it's played the way it was designed -without a riding golf cart, Palank said. 
"If you play golf and you walk, and you take advantage of a sport you like, you can improve your (heart disease) risk ratio," he said. "The thing that's discouraging is that they've taken a very enjoyable sport that was designed to walk, and taken out some of the enjoyment and taken away some of the positive medical benefit." 
Palank blamed economics, saying courses could make more money by shuttling more golfers through on carts. 
Thirty-three percent of members-only courses, 29 percent of daily fee courses and 11 percent of public courses require carts some or all of the time, according to a recent survey by the National Golf Foundation. 

expect a lot. So do we. 
Your first job is more 
than just a place to begin your 
career It's where you'll receive 
the training and development 
that will help detennine your 
future. You've set high stan­
dards -so have we. 
One of the nation's 15 · largest corporations, Aetna was recently named by Fortune mag­azine as one of America's most admired corporations. What's more, Aetna has been recog­nized by Good Housekeeping, 
Working Mother; Black Enter­
prise, and Hispanic magazines in their rankings of great com­panies in which to work Our outstanding compensation, benefits and training programs were major reasons why. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Novice Crew meeting in 127 Nieuwland today at 7:30 p.m. Frostbite will be organized and sweats will be ordered, so bring your checkbooks. Note: Any varsity members that want to order sweats must attend. 
Off campus students wishing to play Interhall hockey should stop in the NVA office this week and sign the roster. 
Women's field hockey will meet at Main Circle at 8 a.m. to play Chicago on Sunday. Players who are going should call Suzanne at x417 4 or Melissa at 277-7 496 by 5 p.m. on Friday. 
CULTURAL CALENDAR 
199 0. 1 9 9 1 
SAINT MARYIS COLLEGE 

We are looking for individ­uals with a proven analytical ability; effective verbal and writ­ten communication skills; com­mitmen~ initiative, flexibility and creativity. We hire graduates with degrees in arts and sciences, economics, finance, accounting, infonnation systems, and marketing. 
We'd like to meet you and learn more about your expecta­tions. Look for us on campus on the following dates: Reception/Information 
Session 
November 13, 1990 
Morris N. Alumni Room 
5:00-7:00p.m. Check with your Placement Office for further details. 
Aebla is an equal opportunity, affinnative action emplo)et 

All performances in O'Laughlin Auditorium unless noted. Tickets on sale at lhe Saint Mary's box office, in O'Laughlin, Mon.-Fri., 10-4. Visa/MasterCard: 284-4626. For updated program information, calllhe Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline: 674-0900, category 1740. 
tB 
~Clint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME 1!'\DIA:\A 

a e 16 The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1990 

----------------------------------------~-------~---~----~ ----­Thursday, November 8, 1990 The Observer page 17 
will innuence the attitude of signed free agent Alex English.
NBA NCAA puts Illinois
Portland. as well as hit a few With the talent already in key jumpers. Unfortunately for Dallas, some luck and some
continued from page 20 

Portland. his attitude and a few chemistry could provide some 
hoops on probation
points a game will be his only surprises for Mav fans. The key Their stiffest test will rome contributions. Ainge will not be for Dallas to keep Roy Tarpley UHBANA, Ill. (AP) -The Kentucky, which got among the from the new-look Boston the answer to the Trail Blazers on the basketball court and out Illinois basketball team was toughest penalties ever 
Celtics. who will have Hed  problems.  of the drug-rehabilitation  
Auerbach swallowing his  The !.akers will have something  center. If the new additions  
trademark cigar with their fast- to say about the Pacific Division  blend together well, the  
break attack. Brian Shaw  winner as well. In forwards  veteran talent of the Mavs  
rnturned from Italy to guide the  Terry Teagle and Sam Perkins,  could send some of the top  
Celtics. and rookiP ))pp Brown  Los Angeles strengthened an  teams in the West on an early  
will lay down sonw rubber on  already strong hand. With  vacation.  
the vauntPd parquay noor of  Magic Johnson up to his usual  The Suns and the Spurs will  
the Boston Garden. ThP big  tricks, all the Lakers need is a  emerge in the Western  
question for Boston is how  solid center. If Vlade Divac can  Conference finals, after taking  
Larry Bird and Kevin McHale  become a forc1~ in the paint, the  out the Lakers and the Trail  
will respond to the new style. If  Lakers just might win it all.  Blazers. The scoring punch of  
thP Boston speed show dirks on  Can you say "NBA title"'? That's  Kevin Johnson and Torn  
all gPars. the Celtics could  the phrase for the season from  Chambers will be too much for  
rpcapture thPir past glory.  Mr. Hobinson's Neighborhood.  the Spurs to handle, and  
The Western Conferpnce will  Boasting one of the top starting  Phoenix will advance to the  
easily be the tougher of the two,  fives in basketball. not to  NBA Finals.  
with four legitimate title  mention one of the youngest,  Their opponent will be no  
contenders and a couple of  the San Antonio Spurs are  surprise. The Pistons will be  
other teams who could surprise  convinced that this could be  back to the party again, aiming  
pPnple.  their year. The Spurs added  for a third consecutive  
The PhoPnix Suns will come out  forward Paul Pressey over the  championship. If the Sixers'  
of the West to rhallenge thP  summer, hoping that his  bench rises to the occasion.  
Pistons for thP title. PhoPnix  veteran leadership \viii be the  and if Hick Mahorn's back  
has bepn to the Western  missing piece in the puzzle.  holds up, Philadelphia will be  
ConfPreneP finals two years in a  Despite having David Hobinson  Detroit's opponent in the  
row, and in last year's. six-game  and tremendous talent on the  Eastern Conference.  
sPries. the Trail Blazers won  rest of the team. it won't be.  If the Sixers aren't in the finals,  
four games by a combined 12  With more p·xperience and  look for the Cavaliers to beat  
points.  somp help off the bench. the  out the Bulls for the spot in the  
The only acquisition thP Suns  Spurs could become perennial  finals. Cleveland's weakness at  
made was picking up forward  title contenders.  the shooting-guard position is  
Ed Nealy. but NPaly muld rnakP  Utah took a big risk by trading  more than offset by its inside  
a big contribution whPn the  by trading two valuable players  game, which will dominate  
play gets rough. Ilis tough play  (Bobby Hansen and Eric  Chicago's big men.  
in the paint was one of the chief  Leckner). plus its first round  Smart money would go with  
reasons tlw Bulls bP.at the  draft pick for shooting guard  the Pistons as the odds-on  
Sixers in the playoffs last  .Jeff Malone. Despite the .Jazz's  favorites to win thP title again,  
sPason. Factor in one of the two  obvious need for someone to  but Phoenix has something  
best six-man rotations in the  shoot from the perimeter, Utah  Detroit doesn't-hunger. That's  
league, and you have a  gave up far too much for what  not to say the Pistons aren't  
championship conwnder.  it received, and it won't help  hungry, but rather the Suns are  
Portland again will bt> the  them get past the second round  starving. They've br~en so close  
biggest threat to the Suns. In  of the playoffs, at best.  for so long that there will bP no  
Danny Ainge, thP Trail BlazNs  In an attempt to improve on  denying them this time. The  
got a player who knows how to  last sPason's 47-35 record, the  Phoenix Suns wili emerge as  
win. With two rhampionships to  Dallas MavPricks tradPd for Fat  the World Champions. winning  
his lTPdit (both with Boston), Iw  LPver and Hodney McCray and  in six games.  

f"""-'"""'"''"""-""'"''--"""'-------'"""~""""''"'"'1 
~ ~ 

~ •··. 

"Our concern for the dignity of every human being as God's cherished child directs our care to victims of every injury: prejudice, famine, warfare, ignorance, infidelity, abuse ... " 
T~ese words from the Constitutions of the Congregation of Hcly 
•:ro:.o.-; 1mpel us as Holy Cross men and women to speak out in support 
of  the people at Notre  Dame who  are  gay and  lesbian.  
Our  experience  here  as  pastors,  teachers,  rectors,  and  
ministers,  has  shown  us  that  there  are  people  at  Notre  Dame  who  

suffer as a result of others' attitudes toward homosexuality. Some experience highly prejudicial and cruel behavior as the result of intolerance and ignorance in the university community. 
As ministers at Notre Dame, we say publicly: Words and actions that dehumanize people because of their homosexuality are wrong and have no place in this community. As the u.s. Catholic Conference has said: "Jesus has revealed to us that God is compassionate, not vengeful. Made in God's image and likeness every human person is of inestimable worth. All human life i~ sacred, and its dignity must be respected and protected. The teaching of Jesus about human sexuality and the moral norms of the Church are not arbitrary impositions on human life but disclosures of its depth." 
I 
Each of us is "God's cherished child." Let us work to create a university community at Notre Dame, in which all of us, 
regardless of sexual orientation, are enabled to realize that human dignity which comes to us all, from our Creator.
I·• Ni-.:l ~!las Ayo, c.s.c. John Jenkins, c.s.c. 
I 
I Ern03t Bartell, c.s.c. Jeannine Jochman, c.s.c. David Burrell, C.S.C. William Lewers, c.s.c. 
·' Austin Collins, c.s.c. Rose Agatha Lundergan, c.s.c. James Connelly, c.s.c. James McDonald, c.s.c. 
•.. Mary Curran, c.s.c. Donald McNeill, c.s.c. 
banned from postseason play in 1991, placed on three years' probation and limited to two new scholarships each of the next two years. And that's after being cleared by the NCAA of the worst charges: offering cash and cars to top reeruits. 
The NCAA stopped short Wednesday of wiping out Illinois' season altogether, but left no doubt it could have. 
"If the most serious violations had been found then I think from reading the report the so­called death penalty ... would have been imposed," said David Berst. the NCAA's assistant 
executive  director  for  
pnforcement.  
Such  a  penalty  can  be  

imposed after a school is sanctioned twice within a five­year period for major NCAA infractions. This is Illinois' third penalty since 1984 -the other two involved football and basketball. 
Still, Illinois thought the penalties weren't fair. 
"We disagree with several of the committee's findings, and some of the sanctions are harsher than we expected," Illinois chancellor Morton Weir said. 
Illinois will be banned from off-campus basketball recruiting and from paying for visits by recruits to its campus the first year. It will also be limited to awarding just two basketball scholarships in each of the first two seasons of the probation. Television coverage, howevf'r, will not be restricted. 
The scholarship sanctions were especially strict. 
imposed by the NCAA a year ago, was limited to three new scholarships for two years. That's one more each year than Illinois. 
Coach Lou Henson said he 
was disappointf'd that he could 
not award all five scholarships 
he had promised to high school 
recruits. but said he expected 
his current players would stay. 
"We're not in shambles," said llenson, now in his 16th season. "When we take the floor this year, our players will be more motivated and more inspired that perhaps ever bPfore." 
Weir said that the university's own investigation turned up most of the violations. and that the school was determined to abide by NCAA rules. 
"We were disappointed with the fact that we found a number of minor violations," athletic director John Markovic said. "The management of the program needs to be strengthened, and we have taken steps to accomplish that." 
Weir said there were no plans for an appeal. 
The university's recruitment in 1989 of prep star Deon Thomas touched off the NCAA's 16-month investigation. 
It initially charged the university with violations that included offering Thomas $80,000 and a Chevrolf't Blazer, and offering LaPhonso Ellis of East St. Louis $5,000 to sign and $5,000 a year to play, as well as a car. 

Class 
continued from page 13 
No Joke' JESTER is playing live at the COFFEE HOUSE this Fri. 
UNBELIEVABLE'! MOLLY MIX IS GIVING UP ALCOHOL FOR 56 DAYS!I. CAN SHE DO IT????? 
"""HAPPY'""""HAPPY•••••••••21 S T".."""'21 sr·•••••••ELLEN ••••••ELLEN""""" 
Short blonde needs riders to and from Atlanta for Christmas break. Can leave anytime after Monday of finals week. Please call 273-2078 Ask for Jeannie. 
BRIGHTEN SOMEONE'S DAY with balloons from Irish Gardens!! 
I am the bloody flower 
I am noticed by no one 
I am the bloody flower 
I am wilting in the sun 
I am the bloody flower 
I have bled for nineteen years 
I am the bloody flower 
No one has noticed my tears 
I WANT YOUR TENESSEE TICKETS? WHY? CAUSE I HAVE MONEY AND I HATE THE VOLS! CALL ME. WE'LL DO LUNCH. JOHN x3574 
Irish Music and Dancing with Sheamaisin Thursday at Club 23 
HEY EVERYONE!!!!!!!!! Irs KEVIN NELSON'S BIRTHDAY. Ask him about the kinky stuff he can do with avocados. 
·······uvE BAND•••••••• 
"JET SCREAMER"' AT 
BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT NOVEMBER 9th & 10th ••••••••uvE BAND•••••••• 
TOP TEN THINGS IN 322 
10. Jen'll spot you 2 chickens 
9. you didn't even let me bask in it. 
8. I spent $18-she better putout 
7. no shoes, no service 
6. on a church roof? 
5. on your mom's bed? 
4. We lost how many points on the purity test? 
3. It must have been love. but I puked. 
2. My mouth was busy doing other things last weekend 
1. He dropped her like an anchor 
sdgf 

'..-William Dohar, c.s.c. Maureen Minihane, c.s.c. 
, John Dunne, c.s.c. Stephen Newton, c.s.c. James Ferguson, c.s.c. John Pearson, c.s.c. 
1. James Flanigan, c.s.c. Robert Pelton, c.s.c. Patrick Gaffney, C.S.C Mark Poorman, c.s.c. i David Garrick, C.S.C. James Rigert, c.s.c. ~~ Thomas Gaughan, c.s.c. Joseph Ross, c.s.c. ~ 
.
I l Joseph Godfrey, c.s.c. David Schlaver, c.s.c. ~ Mary Louise Gude, c.s.c. Timothy Scully, c.s.c. i AmericanHeart&~ Arthur Harvey, c.s.c. Jerome Wilson, c.s.c. '-Association~ 
=~~~>xrA~o:::~~~~~~~~~~~~::-AII<j ---------------------------' 
p~e 18 The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1990 
1 Notes 
continued from page 20 

\ 
1 the only way I've ever been able to evaluate anybody." 
"Sure, we've had a lot of problems on defense," Holtz continued. "and everybody wants to look at the defensive coordinator. But that's not true. This guy's a beautiful individual and an excellent football coach. We've not been very successful, we've not been very productive in a lot of different areas, but there are a lot of reasons for that." 


"I think it's asinine," Janet Weitz of Oakland said. "It's an outdoor facility, people are on their leisure time. In bars and at ball games you get to smoke." 

With Notre Dame preparing to invade Tennessee's 91.100-seat Neyland Stadium on Saturday, comparisons inevitably have been drawn to last season's Miami game in the Orange Bowl. 
1\ 
A's go smo_keless 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP)-Fans of the Oakland Athletics who feel burned by the team's World Series performance may get really fired up about a new ban on smoking at the Oakland Coliseum. 
The A's announced the ban Tuesday, saying it will make the ballpark a better place to watch baseball. 
"We have received letters from non-smoking fans in the past, but this was a proactive decision to keep the Coliseum environment one of the better ones in which to watch a ball game," said Andy Dolich, vice president of business

. I 
operations for the A's. 
But the decision rankled some fans who consider smoking during games a right protected under the Bill of Rights. 
Weitz has been smoking at A's games for the last five years and doubted that second-hand smoke poses a threat to her neighbors. 
"I mean, if people really think it's going to harm them let's ban trucks on the freeway during 

Charlie Hustle wants his peace 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Pete 
Rose, serving a five-month 
federal prison term for 

I 
cheating on his income taxes,

r has sold his suburban Cincinnati home and is selling a home in Plant City, Fla. Rose's house on a five-acre site in the affluent Cincinnati suburb of Indian Hill sold within the past few months for about $1 million, The Cincinnati Post reported Wednesday. Rose also is reportedly asking nearly $1 million for his Plant City house, near the Reds' spring training facilities. 
If what happened on your inside 

,,II 
happened on your

' 
outside, would 
you still smoke? 
NOVEMBER 15. THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT. 

the CASTLE 8l co. -'~ . ,. MINI-SPA FULL SERVICE HAIR CARE Designer Permanents Waxing Hair Wet.ving Manicuring & Nail-Tips Expert Custom Coloring Precision Cutting ~ fAiiiial Tanning Bed ....-J ~ (EUROPEAN SKIN & BODY CARl STUDIO) • EUROPEAN PEDICURE SPA • REVITAUZING DEEP CLEANSE FACIALS • CORRECTIVE MAKE-UP LESSONS • RETAIL PRODUCTS FROM CLARINS &SANS SOUCIS APPOINTMENTS & WALK-INS WELCOME 272-0312 272-8471 ST RD 23 I TERRACE LANE ACROSS FROM GREENWOOD SHOPPING CTR.  
$5.00 OFF During September On any Service from Mini Spa  



The 27-10 Irish loss before 75,500 screaming fans ended Notre Dame's 24-game winning streak and dashed its hopes for a second-straight national title. 
"The loudest stadium I 've ever been in was Miami last year," Holtz said. "I understood we would miss some check offs. What I did not anticipate was that we would not be able to hear the plays in the huddle." 
The offense may have an even more difficult time hearing the plays in the huddle this season. Quarterback Rick Mirer, who has a higher-pitched voice than Tony Rice, has struggled at times to project his voice over the home crowds at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"Last year. we had a baritone calling the signals," Holtz said. "This year, he's more soprano. We've had difficulty at home, let alone down there." 
A's games," she said. 

One season ticket holder called cigarette smoke a "part of the ambiance of night games." 
But Dolich said starting next year anyone who lights up during an A's game will receive a warning from an usher and a printed card detailing designated smoking areas around the stadium. Militant smokers will be subject to removal. 
"We've found that our fans police each other, letting people know about excessive drinking, noise or whatever else might be construed as bothersome to other fans," Dolich said. 
Indoor sports arenas such as the Houston Astrodome and the Metrodome in Minneapolis generally forbid smoking, and the San Francisco Giants and some other teams have introduced no-smoking "family sections" in recent years. 
Coliseum fans seated at field level will be permitted to smoke on the ramps leading to the second deck behind sections 114 and 120 and the areas inside C and D gates, Dolich said. 
Irish volleyball splits matches with MCC foes Xavier and Dayton 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Sports Writer 
Notre Dame women's volleyball ended a seven-game winning streak Monday night, defeating Xavier in five games. The Irish, however, lost their second match in straight games to Dayton. 
Xavier (18-14, 3-4 in MCC play) came out strong in game one, putting Notre Dame away by a count of 15-7. The Irish came back to win the second and third games 15-10, 15-12. The Musketeers fought back to post a 16-14 triumph in the fourth game. Notre Dame finally heated up in the final game, winning by a score of 15­6. 
The Irish were led by Marilyn Cragin, who produced 24 kills against the Musketeers. Leading the defense, with 15 digs apiece, were junior Katie Kavanaugh and sophomore Alicia Turner. Five Irish players posted double figures in digs. After the defeat of Xavier, the Irish fell flat against Dayton (14­17, 4-3). The Lady Flyers had little trouble dispatching the Notre Dame squad, 15-13. 15-3, 15-6. 
Notre Dame has been decimated by injuries recently. Jen Slosar, Julie Harris, and Cynthia May have all been taken from the lineup due to stress fractures. Perhaps the most significant loss of the season was that of sophomore Jessica Fiebelkorn, who led the Irish in attacking and blocking before being sidelined by a stress fracture herself. 
The Irish will face Colorado on Friday in the Joyce ACC. The match will mark the Buffaloes' first trip to Notre Dame. Colorado (13-11) is in the midst of a seven-game road trip. 
The MCC doubleheader marked the last two conference games for the Irish, who will begin MCC tournament play on November 16. Notre Dame, seeded fifth, will face fourth seed Loyola of Chicago in the first round of the double elimination tournament. In their only previous matchup this season. the Irish were defeated 15-6, 15-4. 11-15, 15­10. 
The favorite entering the MCC postseason is undoubtedly Butler, which posted a spotless 7-0 conference record this season. The Bulldogs have a 21-match unbeaten streak in MCC regular season play. Butler will open the tournament, to be held at Xavier University in Cincinnati. against hapless Evansville. 
Two-time defending MCC champs, St. Louis enters the tournament seeded second, with a 5-2 conference record. The Billikens will square off with Marquette in the first round. 
The winner of the tournament will get the first-ever automatic bid for the MCC champion to the Women's Invitational Volleyball Championship, to be 

Alomar AL Rookie of the Year 
NEW YORK (AP) -Sandy Alomar Jr.. a prospect who turned promise into productivity, became only the third unanimous choice as rookie of the year, winning the American League award Wednesday. 
The Cleveland catcher joined Mark McGwire (1987) and Carlton Fisk (1972) as the only major leaguers to sweep the honor since it was first presented 194 7. Alomar, 24, hit .290 with nine homers and 66 RBis and was the first rookie catcher ever to start an All-Star game. 
Alomar was a two-time minor league player of the year in the San Diego system, but was unable to break into the big leagues because the Padres already had All-Star catcher Benito Santiago. So last December, the Padres, who have Alomar's father Sandy Sr. as a coach and brother Roberto 
A family member, whom the Post did not identify, said Rose put the houses on the market to start over in a new community, possibly Boca Raton on Florida's east coast. 
"Pete wants some peace when he gets out," the family member was quoted as saying. 
Reuven J. Katz, Rose's longtime lawyer in Cincinnati, did not return a telephont> call Wednesday seeking comment. 
Rose, 49, a Cincinnati native and former star for the Reds, also faces legal bills from his battle with the baseball 
MICHAEL BRANDON ROE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
Mom, Dad, Tammy, Dawn, and Maggie 
commissioner's office and his tax prosecution by the federal government. In August 1989, Rose accepted a lifetime ban from baseball after he admitted to illegal gambling. 
He pleaded guilty this year to failing to report income, was sentenced in July. In August he began serving his prison term at the Marion (Ill.) Correctional Institution Camp. He is to be released in early January, then must spend three months in a halfway house and perform 1,000 hours of community service. 


as a second baseman, traded him and two other players to the Indians for their best player, slugger Joe Carter. 
Alomar played up to his potential all season and continued the family tradition of fine major leaguers. He joined Fisk and Thurman Munson as the lone catchers to win the AL rookie award and became the fourth Indian to receive the honor, along with Herb Score, Chris Chambliss and Joe Charboneau. 
"You only get one chance to get this. To get it unanimously is much better," Alomar said from Japan, where a team of major league all-stars is touring. 
Alomar received all 28 first­place votes for a total of 140 points. Two members of the Baseball Writers Association of America in each AL city voted. 
Kevin Maas, who hit 21 home runs for the New York Yankees, got 14 second-place votes and had 47 points and Kansas City pitcher Kevin Appier was third with 31 points. 
Alomar played a total of eight games for San Diego in late­season callups the past two years. But he knew he was expected to be a star when the Padres traded him, prospect Carlos Baerga and Chris James for Carter, who had averaged 31 home runs and 108 RBis in his previous four seasons. 
"It made it harder," Alomar admitted. "Everybody had their eye on me." 
Alomar, though, was ready for his chance. He batted .306 with 13 homers and 101 RBis for Triple-A Las Vegas in 1989 and had hit .297 with 16 home runs and 71 RBis for the same team in 1988. 
"I felt more prepared this year," he said. "I didn't want to go back. I wanted to go forward." 
CAMPUS 

7 p.m. Presentation/Hcception by General \1ills. Any Arts and LettPrs senior intnmsted in discovering carPer opportunities with Gmwral \1ills is invited to attend. Genrral Mills will bn intrrviewing on campus on h•bruary 
12. 1991. Notre Damn Hoom. \1orris Inn. Sponsored by CarnPr and Placement Services. 
8 p.m. film. "A Shot in the Dark." Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune StudPnt Centnr. Admission $1. Sponsored by Student Union Hoard. 
8 p.m. Saint Mary's College Choirs/Fall Concert. Nancy Menk. Conductor. Little Theatre, Moreau. Admission Fnw. Sponsorpd by Saint Mary's CollegP. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 4:15-5 p.m. "A Word Made Flesh: The Bible and Hevisionist Women's Poetry," Alicia Ostriker. Professor of English at Rutgers, Poet and Literary Critic. Educational Media Room, Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by The Year of Women. Religion and Literature, and the Department of English. 
7 p.m. Rosa Parks, Civil Bights Leader. Auditorium, Cnnter for Continuing Education Center. Sponsored by the Year of Women and Center for Social Concerns. 
8 p.m. "Making The Land Holy: Peace in the Light of the Torah," Yclwzkel Landau. Executive Director Oz ve Shalom at the Cent<•r for Social Concerns. Sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Studies. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Beef Noodle Soup Tangy Grillnd Chicken HrPast Veal Parnwsan/Spaghetti Cheese and Vegetable Pot Pic Stir Fry Vegetables 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
page 19

Thursday. November 8. 1990 The Observer 
. ..;........... 
CROSSWORD 
57 "Laugh-In" catch phrase for Judy Carne 
59 Father 60 Italian automotive 
center &1 Swiss peaks &2Amuse 
immensely &3 In the altogether 64 Lanny or Diana 
DOWN 
1 Cigar remnant 2 Miscellany 3 Snick-or--­4 Derisive 
whistles 5 Accelerate &Annoy 7 Dandy a Roger Rabbit, 
for one 9 Comic actor Walker 10 Turkish regiment 11 Gossip's interest 
ACROSS 
1 Type of pear 5 Put through a strainer 
9 Green stone 13 Forearm bone 14 Groups of three 16 Pelvic bones 17 Get married 19 Red planet 20 Up-front part of 
a shoe 21 Atrociousness 23 "Hall.?lujah, I'm 
25ChouEn-­2&Hoodwink 32 For grown-ups 34 Actress Irene 35 Follower: Suffix 3& Not so much 
37 Trumpeter Al's family 
38Some sandwiches, briefly 
39 Hard wood 40-nova (Brazilian dance) 41 Give as one's share 
42 Avoid taking a stand 
45 No longer burning 
46 Henry or Clare Boothe 
47 Heater fuel 
52 Play-­(dissemble) 
56 Boesky or Tors 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



THE FAR SIDE 
liS llM~O TO S£ Rt.LIG\OI.lS 1'111£1-\ CER\1>.\1'\ P£01'1..£ AR£ ti£'/E.R INC\t-<ERATED S'{ BCl.:r; Of. LIG\l'TNING. 


~"I 
The class was quietly doing Its lesson when Russell, suffering from problems at home, prepared to employ an attention-getting device. 
(New Orleans) 
15 Rootlike runners 

22 Kind of review 24 Fashionable 26 Rice-and-fish 
dish 
GARY LARSON 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each minute). 
.JAY HOSLER 
27 Clara Barton was one 2Sinvolve necessarily 29 Lunar valley 30 Astronomer Knopf 31 TV's "Empty " 32 Word of sorrow 33 Vargueno, e.g. 37 Most popular 38 Heavenly body such as Rigel 
SPEI,.UNKEH 
40 Heat units, for short 41 Neckwear for Henry Higgins 43 Andy, Annie or Mickey 44 Lying on one's back 
47 Smooch 
48 Wickedness 
49--avis so Part of speech 51 Beige 53 Student flier's 
goal 54 Base V.J.P.'s 55 Word with hall 
or kit 58 Rib 




TON fGHT AT 
Montgomery Theater 
I

A Shot 1n the Dark Pretty 
8:00
8:00 & 10:00 

Tickets are $1 Tickets are $2 
Sports
Thursday, November 8, 1990 
page 20 



Holtz confident in Darnell, Irish defense 

"I had one quarterback get an astroturf toe," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "That was Tom Jones, Bert Jones's brother, and he missed seven games." 
Ismail tried to downplay the injury during a locker-room conversation with Holtz following Saturday's game. 
"He was limping out of the locker room," Holtz said, "and I asked him what happened. He said, 'I'm fine.' I said, 'Let me see.' He said, 'Coach, my mother's here. I'm not injured.' Well, he shows up on Sunday and he can hardly walk. 
"We'd like to get his hands on the ball 20 times a game," Holtz continued. "I get thousands of letters from people saying, 'Put him at tailback.' Well, I've got to tell you something. The guy cannot take the pounding. He's a very tough young man, but he's still only 170 pounds. He cannot take the pounding on a continuous basis." 
Defensive coordinator Gary Darnell has taken the brunt of the criticism for Notre Dame's inconsistent defensive play this season. 
The Irish have allowed 23.7 points and 392 total yards per game through their first eight contests. Holtz relies on a different set of criteria, however, in assessing Darnell's first­year performance. 
"Every coach I've ever had was different," Holtz said. "but I just ask three questions. One, 'Can you trust him?' I trust Gary Darnell explicitly. I trust him in any environment and in any situation. 
"The second thing you have to ask is, 'Is he committed to being great?' And he is. There's no doubt whatsoever about it. The third thing you say is, 'Does he care? Does he care about players? Does he care about Notre Dame? Completely. That's 
Notre Dame flanker Raghib Ismail has been carrying around slightly more weight lately, but the steel plates placed inside his shoes to reduce the painful effects of turf toe don't figure to add much to his 175-pound frame. 
Ismail suffered the painful, artificial turf-related injury last Saturday against Navy. The Heisman Trophy candidate missed Monday's and Tuesday's practices, but trainers expect
him to start Saturday against Tennessee. 


Thorpe for Todd Lyght? 
OKLAHOMA CITY (AP)-Three players from Indiana colleges are among the 15 candidates

k for the Jim Thorpe Award,
\• 
given annually to the nation's best defensive back. 
They are Todd Lyght of Notre Dame, Mike Dumas of Indiana and Steve Jackson of Purdue. l.yght and Nathan LaDuke of Arizona State were finalists a year ago when Mark Carrier of Southern Cal won the award. 


The names of the semifinalists will be submitted to a 21­member panel, which will select the winner. The three players receiving the most votes will be invited to attend the award banquet Jan. 14. 
The Jim Thorpe Award, first presented in 1986, is based on performance, athletic ability and character. It is given by the Jim Thorpe Athletic Club of Oklahoma City. 
Joining LaDuke and the three Indiana players as semifinalists are Jesse Campbell of North Carolina State, Harry Colon of Missouri, Reggie Cooper of Nebrask.a, Merton Hanks of Iowa, Henry Jones of Illinois, Darryl Lewis of Arizona, Chris. Mitchell of Mississippi, Ken Swilling of Georgia Tech, Eric Turner of UCLA, Tripp Welborne of Michigan and Will White of Florida. 
Campbell, Swilling and White are the only underclassmen on the list. 
FRANK PASTOR 

Football Notebook ----------­
see NOTES I page 18 
What, me worry? Not Jones. 
Sophomore nose tackle going about business as usual 
SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The most popular question circulating among Notre Dame followers is: "Is Chris Zorich going to be able to play against Tennessee?" 
Good question. They'll see. 
Second question: "What will the Irish defense do without Zorich?" 
Note, folks, how often the name "Zorich" occurs in the media and in conversations about Notre Dame football. Imagine the standards and scrutiny that his replacement will have to face. 
Unfortunately, Eric Jones, Zorich's replacement, doesn't see things that way at all. He's just doing his thing, pressuring quarterbacks and tackling fel­lows with footballs. 
Zorich? The best publicized defensive lineman since Bob Golic? Oh yeah, that's who Jones is replacing. 
"The way I look at it," says Jones, a 6-6, 233-pound nose­guard, "they make a defe~:~se and you've got a job to do. You just go out and do it." 
Forget the fact that Jones, a sophomore, got the chance to start his first game Saturday after Zorich's knee injury made the All-America noseguard unable to play. Never mind that every sportscaster and sportswriter will be mentioning Jones when treating the subject of Zorich's injury. 
Jones just goes out to play. 
"(The increased media atten­tion) feels like nothing at all," says the Portage, Ind., native. "I don't read the paper unless it's lying around. My mom reads all that stuff. so I hear it from her. 

Todd Lyght, shown after s~ccessfully defending a pass against Navy, has been named as a candidate for the prestigious Thorpe Award. 
Eric Jones 
I just do what I have to do. I don't care about publicity or anything about that. It doesn't matter as long as we're winning." 
Not to say, mind you, that he's indifferent to whether he starts or not. 
"The more playing time you get, the more you learn," says Jones. "Hopefully, from the more you learn, you become a better player." 
Thrust into a new position because of Zorich's injury, Jones had spent his time at Notre Dame as a backup to de­fensive tackle Bob Dahl. He had not practiced a down at nose­guard until the week before the Navy game. To exacerbate the sudden switch, he would be starting. 
"Sure, I got the butterflies, but after the first snap I had other things to concentrate on," says Jones. "Everything was going through my mind before that, being nervous and excited. But I didn't really have a chance to be nervous or excited after the ball was snapped because I had a job to do." 

Evaluations of that job were generally positive, good enough to ensure that. barring a Zorich comeback. he'll start Saturday when the Irish play Tennessee. 
"Eric Jones did some awfully good things, but made some mistakes, obviously," says Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "Even though he is quite light, we will still leave him in there." 
Ah, the weight problem. His listed 233 pounds is below the 260-plus pounds of Dahl and Zorich, and it's a far cry from 
defensive  tackle  George  
Williams's 298.  
''I'm  working  on  gaining  

weight," says Jones. "I came in at 21 7 as a freshman, and now I'm up to 235-240 this year. During the summer I lifted and ate, and tried to stay active. I just ate everything, really. 
"It's the strength that's im­portant-! don't want to be big and fat and slow. I want to keep my quickness." 
It's Jones's quickness and agility that have gotten him the replacement job for the Irish. It is that same quickness that gave him seven tackles last year, including a 23-yard sack and a forced fumble against Miami. At 6-6, he's an intimi­dating obstacle fo_r quarter­backs to throw through. 
But don't make comparisons with his game and Zorich's, or for that matter, with anyone's. Jones doesn't like to talk in those terms. When talking with him, one will hear adages like "give your best effort" or "get your job done." The fact that he's filling in for Zorich is ex­traneous. 
Phoenix;Cavs or Bulls in NBA championship 
The NBA season kicked off last 
Friday, and with it, the Detroit Pistons' run for a third consecutive title. Last season the Pistons had to endure a tough run through the playoffs, and this year should be no different. 
Both conferences figure to be tougher this year, and it will be a chore for the Pistons just to make the finals, with several teams 

posing a challenge to their World RICH KURZ Championship hopes. s w · 

The Pistons' own Central ports nter Conference will be hotly contested. The Cavaliers, coming off a disappointing season, will be the surprise of that division. A rash of injuries doomed Cleveland last year, but with everyone healthy and the return of Danny Ferry from the Italian League, the Cavs are in position to knock off the Pistons. The Bulls made several bold moves in an attempt to move past the Pistons, but it won't be enough. Although Cliff Levingston gives them another inside force, Chicago has the doughnut syndrome-a hole in the middle. Bill Cartwright performed admirably last year, but he's on his last legs. and without a better center, the Bulls will again be mired behind Detroit. Detroit hasn't made any significant moves since last season, but that is a luxury the two-time defending NBA champs have earned. Only injuries can knock off the Pistons, and unless Philadelphia, Chicago or Cleveland has an amazing season, Detroit should get its chance to three-peat. The Philadelphia 76ers won the Atlantic Division by default last year, after Boston and New York folded like a set of lawn chairs. Philadelphia bolstered its bench with the addition of several key players. They drafted guard Brian Oliver from Georgia Tech, w~o can play either guard position and will provide quality mmutes off the bench. Manute Bol and Jayson Williams, both the object of trades, also should make significant contributions as reserves. Unless Rick Mahorn's back gives out, the Sixers 
see NBA 1page 17 





