
NO MEMBERSHIP FEE! NO ANNUAl FEE! NOTHING TO BUY! NO COST TO ENTER! 
WE'RE TALKING MAJOR EXCITEMENT HERE! 
TWO GRAND PRIZES 1990 PONTIAC 
SUNBIRD CONVERTIBLE! 
YOU'll TURN HEADS ON CAMPUS AS YOU PASS BY AT THE WHEEl OF THIS TERRIFIC CAR. 'PLUS, TWO SEARS CHECKS, EACH FOR $5,000.00, FOR THE WINNERS TO PRESENT TO THEIR SCHOOl'S SCHOLARSHIP FUND! 
~~·.·. 
~~· 
© 1989 GM CORP. 
OPEN FOR FURTHER DETAILS 
'/ 
,, 
HEY, DEB ... APPLY FOR
•1:\.,. 
;~ ~! ~k..~ 
SEARSCHARGE. IT'S ONE OF THE MOST USEFUL CARDS STUDENTS CAN HAVE.FIRnPRIZE PLUS, IT'S EASIER TO GET APPROVAL NOW 
HMMMM ... YOU'RE RIGHT, KEN!
TJII() TO BEAWAR/JE!J. THAN LATER. REMEMBER-THERE'S 
I CAN START MY CREDIT FUTURE NOW,
NO COST TO GET OR HAVE 
.. ~ 
<='It\
( 
CLUB MED 7-DA Y GETAWAY FOR 2 ••• 
ALL EXPENSES PAID! PLUS ... $500 EXTRA SPENDING MONEY. Pick any Club Medin North America. Choose your partner. Sears picks up the airfare and tab for two. 
And two Sears checks, each for $2,500, for the winners to present to their school's scholarship fund! 
WITH SEARSCHARGE. AND SINCE SEARSSEARSCHARGE. 
HAS THOUSANDS OF NAME BRANDS AND THEIR OWN FAMOUS BRANDS LIKE KENMORE® AND CRAFTSMAN®, All AT EVERY DAY LOW 'PRICES I'll BE SHOPPING THERE MORE! 
SEARS EXTRA CREDIT SWEEPSTAKES OFFICIAL RULES 
1. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. To enter this National Sweepstakes, computer (Model #PC6400) (Value: $1,370); Second Part $1,000 cash complete the credit application. Fold, seal and mail the application. Postage awarded to accredited college named by winner of First Part; 25 Third is already paid. If you do not wish to apply for SearsCharge at this time, you Prizes: Marantz Stereo System (Model #9836) (Value: $1 ,400); 40 Fourth may still enter the sweepstakes. Write your name, address and school name 
Prizes: RCA VCR (#VR475) (Value: $900); 10,000 Fifth Prizes: $5 Sears and address and the word "SearsCharge" on a 3" x 5" piece of paper: mail in Gift Certificate. 
a separate envelope to Sears Extra Credit Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 1150, Grand Rapids, MN 55745. All entries must be received by May 31, 1990. 
4. Sweepstakes open to all residents of the USA age 18 or older, except 
Limit one entry per student. employees and their immediate families of Sears, Roebuck and Co.. its affiliates and subsidiaries, advertising and promotional agencies, and
2. Winners will be selected at random in a national drawing from all entries Marden-Kane,lnc. Void where prohibited or restricted by law .. Limit one prize received by Marden-Kane, Inc., an independent judging organization, per household. 
whose decisions will be final. All 1 0,079 prizes worth approximately $203,700, will be awarded. Chances of winning depend upon number of 5. All entries become the property of Sears, Roebuck and Co., and none will be eligible entries received. returned. Winners will be notified by mail. All taxes on prizes are the 
3. Prizes: Two 2-Part Grand Prizes: First Part 1990 Pontiac Sunbird (Value: responsibility of the winners. Winners' names and likenesses may be used $17,000); Second Part $5,000 cash awarded to accredited college named for promotional purposes without additional compensation. No substitution by winner of First Part; Two 2-Part First Prizes: First Part Club Med ortransfer of prizes. Winners may be required to sign an affidavit of eligibility 
Vacation (Caribbean or Mexican villages only, one week for 2 persons, and release. including round-trip coach air transportation, club accommodations double 
6. Sears is not responsible for lost, late or misdirected mail. 
occupancy, airport transfers, $500 cash) (Approx. value: $5,000 ea.); Second Part $2,500 cash awarded to accredited college named by winner 7. For a list of major winners, send a stamped, self-addressed envelope to: of First Part; Ten 2-Part Second Prizes: First Part Amstrad personal Sears Credit Card Winners, P.O. Box 709, Sayreville, NJ 08871. 

THIS THIRD PRIZE ~ MAKES BEAUTIFUL MUSIC ~ 
25 THIRD PRIZES FROM SEARS 
f'.­MARANTZ 3001S _, MUSIC SYSTEM ~ ~ Featuring 110 watts per channel amplifier, tuner, WW tumtable, dual cassette deck andcompact disc player. 


ENJOY YOUR FAVORITE MOVIES WITH THIS FOURTH PRIZE 
40 FOURTH PRIZES FROM SEARS RCA VCR WITH REMOTE CONTROL 
4 heads, remote programming with on-screen display, TVNCR remote control. 
10,000 FIFTH PRIZES FROM SEARS 
-;·;:;.-:; ,~~. ··-=/fo:J.=;' ;;; :~---=-::; :-'-.:.::=­
: ·~ ~3-~3· r~ r ·_5, .:: -~ ·.·~
$5 SEARS GIFT CERTIFICATES ---.-... , --; " 
to spend at Sears any .GiftCertificc way you choose. 
© 1989, Sears, Roebuck and Co. 
WITH SEARSCHARGE, YOU CAN ENJOY All THAT CREDIT CAN BUY ATSEARS ... AND GErrlNG CREDIT IS USUAllY EASIER WHILE YOU'RE STill IN SCHOOL. 
Complete this easy student application to get SearsCharge and enter the sweepstakes. If you do not wish to apply for SearsCharge at this time, you may still enter the sweepstakes. Write your name, address, and school name and address and the word "SearsCharge" on a 3" x 5" piece of paper: mail in a separate envelope to Sears Extra Credit Sweepstakes, 


P.O. Box 1150, Grand Rapids, MN 55745. All entries must be received by May 31, 1990. Limit one entry per student. In the event I'm a winner, send my prize to: Name _____________________________________________________ 
Street ----------------------------------------------------­City, State, Zip _________________________ 
Sears, Roebuck and Co. Credit Account Application ID 26 
Please 1nd1cate below name 1n wh1ch account IS to be earned. Courtesv titles are opt1onal. Applicant, if mamed. may apply for a separate account. ~ 1.:. F1rst Name lnrtial Last Name
OMISS 
OMs 
Address [to wh1ch you  Apt#  C1ty  State  Zip Code  
want your btlhng ma1led)  
.,. :;  Apt#  City  State  Zip Code  

lr:~; 
L.u 
ffi
., 
5 
:t
iii
·~­
§
~ 
:X: 
~ 
.,., ~ 
(\­
~-: 
' 
SEE REVERSE 2 89 
MOISTEN HERE 

IMPORTANT SEARSCHARGE CREDIT TERMS 
The 1nformat1on below 1ncludes the costs assoc1ated with a SearsCharge Account. It IS accurate as of October 1989. but may change after that date. To fmd out what may have changed write to Sears Telemarket1ng Center. 2269 V1llage Mall Dr. Mansfield. OH 44906 A copy of the ent~re SearsCharge agreement for you to keep. w1th all terms applicable to your state of reSidence. will be sent to you w1th the cred1t card(s). You need not accept the card and are not required to pay any fee or charge disclosed unless the card IS used 
Annual  The annual percentage rate 1s 21% unless you res1de 1n a  
Percentage  state shown below  
Rate  Alabama 2 t% Massachusetts 18% to $750. 18''' on excess MIChigan 20% Alaska 18% Mmnesota 18% to$1000.10 5%onexcess Mtssoun 20 04% Arkansas 12% Nebraska 21% (See Vanable Rate lnlorma110nl to $500. 18% on excess California 19 2% No. Carolina 18% Connecttcut 18% No. Dakota 18% Flonda 18% Pennsylvania 18% Hawaii 18% Puerto Rico 20.4% Iowa 19 8% Rhode Island 18% Kansas 21% Texas 18% to$1000. 14 4% on excess Washmgton 18% LOUISiana 18% W Virginia 18% Matne . 18% Wtsconsin 18%  
Vanable  (Arkansas Restdents Only) Your Annual Percentage Rate  
Rate  may vary The rate IS determtned by addtng 5% per annum  
Information  to the Federal Reserve Discount Rate on 90 day commerctal paper 1n Arkansas.  
Grace Penod To Repay Balance  You have 30 days from your btlltng date to repay your balance before betng charged a finance charge  
Balance  The Average Datly Balance method (includmg new  
Calculatton  transacttons) IS used 1n all states except Mame.  
Method For  Massachusetts. Mmnesota. MtSSISStppt, Montana.  
Purchases  New Mextco and North Dakota where the Average Datly Balance method (excluding new transactions) is used.  
Mmtmum  A mm1mum monthly finance charge of 50¢ applies in all  
Fmance  states except Arkansas. Connecticut, Hawati. Maryland,  
Charge  Nebraska. Nevada. No. Caroltna. No. Dakota. Rhode Island. Virgtma. Dtsl. of Columbia. and Puerto Rico.  
Late Payment Fees  Late payment fees vary from state to state. They range from zero to the lesser of $5 or 5% wtth a mmimum of $1 on payments more than 10 days late.  
Annual Fees  None  
Over-The-Credtt-Ltmtt Fees  None  
Transactton Fees  None  

Ohio residents only: The OhiO laws agamst dtscrimtnatton requtre that all credttors make credit equally available to all creditworthy customers. and that credtt reporttng agenctes mamtam separate credit histones on each 1ndtv1dual upon request. The Ohto Ctvtl Rtghts Commisston administers compliance wtlh lhts law 
New York residents only: A consumer report may be ordered 1n connectton wtth lhts appltcatiOn. or subsequently 1n connection wtlh the update, renewal or extension of credtl. Upon your request. you will be informed whether or not aconsumer credtt report was ordered, and tf 11 was. you will be g1ven the name and address of the consumer reporting agency that furntshed the report 
Wisconsin residents only: Wtsconsm law provtdes that no agreement. court order or mdtvldual statement applying to mantal property will affect a creditor's tnterests unless pnor to the It me credtt IS granted the creditor is furntshed wtth a copy of the agreement. court order. or statement. or has actual knowledge of the adverse prov1s1on. 
OCTOBER 1989 

""-ccn lJ 
0
zom 
CCCI~ (/) :;;! ~ocn G)
-><z 1'11 
r-c.nm 
~
r-r.c:e r-
me r­-tol:lo:l:lo 
~ zc.nn ~ 
--i n 
23 to) C) ~ 
r-c
...... ti
!:> 
ID z 
t::lJ
c.n .... ~ c I "" 
r-n h 
l> ID rn t::J
1§ ID z t::J 
..... .... lJ 
~ m 
i" N ::z:tl m 
(/) 
m 
~a:. ~c::
()CI)
r;.._ 
~:e 
l:lftl 
~CI) ~CI) ~::Q 
§~
..... 
~-c:: 
~
s;&: 
~. 
.1'11.._ 
~"""' 


~~I 1 ,---~~~--------~-­

VOL. XXIII N0.83 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Gorbachev says communists must give up monopoly rule 
MOSCOW (APl -Mikhail party, but do it strictly in the Gorbachev declared Monday framework of the democratic that Communists 'must surren-process, rejecting any kind of der their unchallenged right to legal or political advantage," rule the Soviet Union to the tide Gorbachev said. of democratic reform he has Political reform that has unleashed. strengthened the Soviet gov-
The Soviet Communist Party ernment at the expense of an chief, in an historic speech to all-controlling party apparatus, the party's Central Committee "has been accompanied by a in the Kremlin, tacitly acknowl-growth in political pluralism," edged the growing power of the Gorbachev said, presenting a pro-democracy movement that draft platform to the 249­has swept away Communist member Central Committee. regimes in Eastern Europe. set "This process can lead to the several Soviet republics on the creation of parties at some road to multiparty politics, and stage." on Sunday drew a huge crowd Central Committee sources of protesters in Moscow. said Gorbachev told the closed 
But his move was unlikely to meeting that political changes bring about the disintegration he has pushed through in at­of the Communist Party, and most five years in power have Gorbachev, who is also head of in effect created a multiparty the government, did not ad-system already. dress the possibility of the Gorbachev indicated he did party losing power. not foresee the reform over-
The Communist Party's lead-turning the country's socialist ing role in society. a tenet of system as well as the commu­Soviet socialism that excluded nists' assurance of power. any other political forces since The party was "ready to act the time of Lenin, was formal-with due account for these new ized in the Soviet Constitution circumstances, cooperate and in 1977. conduct a dialogue with all or­
The party wants to remain ganizations honoring the Soviet the leading force in society but Constitution and the social sys­must prove its worthiness, tern it endorses," he said. Gorbachev said. The two-day Central 
In the future it "intends to see PARTY I page 7 struggle for the role of ruling 
NO professor discusses proposed Social Security tax cut 
By PETER LOFTUS Moynihan's proposal directly News Writer opposes President Bush's pro-
Sen. Daniel Moynihan's pro-posed 1991 budget. Bush's posal to cut Social Security budget calls for a cut in capital-taxes had to be made in order gains tax, which favors the to expose the unfairness of the rich, and the increasing Social increasing Social Security Security taxes hurt the poor, taxes. according to Assistant according to Ghilarducci. Professor Theresa Ghilarducci The Social Security payroll of the Notre Dame Economics ·tax is a regressive tax, which department. means that it takes a larger 
Moynihan. a Democrat from proportion of low-incomP pay, New York "did us all a favor by and a smaller proportion of exposing the situation (of upper-income pay, said Soria! Security taxes) and by Ghilarducci. Someone with an exposing the inequity behind income of $200,000 pays basi­capital-gains tax cuts," said cally the same amount of Social Ghilarducci. Security taxes as someone with 
Panels go head to head in abortion debate 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 
A debate on abortion drew large crowds to Theodore's Monday in the first event of Student Union Board's Catholic Church Week. 
The panel consisted of pro-ehoice advocates Dr. Ellyn Stecker, co-chair St. Joseph Valley National Organization of Women {N.O.W.) and Senior Karl Kronenberger, Democratic Socialists of America. and pro-life advocates Father James Burtchaell, professor of Theology and Junior Mary Lee Freeman, ND/SMC Right to Life. 
In his opening statement, Kronenberger told the audience that "when you leave here tonight you will have heard four different interpretations ... there won't be one that is right or one that is wrong, there just will be just four different interpretations." 
The first to address the crowd was Stecker to present a pro-choice viewpoint. Stecker quoted N.O.W.'s national statement which affirms "that reproductive issues are matters of life and death ... 
N.O.W. supports access to safe and legal abortion, to effective birth control. and to reproductive health education." 
According to Stecker, pro­choice means that a woman is "not a slave to a fertilized egg or an embryo." She said that abortion before 20 weeks is safer than· childbirth. with birth control "safer yet." 
"All freedom of choice cor­rupts, and absolute freedom of choice corrupts absolutely," said BurtchMU in his opening remark!!. He added that this freedom 
see ABORTION I page 6 
an income of $50,000. 
The Reagan and Bush admin­istrations have not cut Social Security payroll taxes, accord­ing to Ghilarducci. Instead, the 
F.I.C.A. tax increased in the 1980's. 
A portion of the revenues generated by the Social Security tax is put into a surplus created to benefit the baby-boomer generation when they retire. This surplus is being counted against the deficit. thus the deficit looks smaller, according to Ghilarducci. 
Bush's budget proposes a maximum capital-gains tax 
rate of 19.6 percent. This de-representation of the deficit crease will benefit the rich, ac-figure. cording to Gilarducci. Those Politically, Moynihan "doesn't who earn more than $200,000 want any of this to happen, " will get 60 percent of the cut according to Ghilarducci. from capital gains tax while Moynihan simply wants to em­those who earn less than barrass the Republicans by ex­$10,000 will get 0.1 percent of posing the unfairness of the the cut. Social Security tax and weaken 
Moynihan's proposal to cut support for the proposed capi­Social Security taxes is de-tal-gains tax cut made by Bush. signed to have an effect both _ "Someone had to say how re-politically and economically, gressive" the Social Security according to Ghilarducci. tax is, said Ghilarducci. 
Economically, the proposal Although Ghilarducci ac-would make the system fairer knowledged that Moynihan's in-by not burdening the poor. Also, it would force a truer see BUDGET I page 5 
Senate asked for DART input 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 
Timothy O'Meara, provost, asked for input on the DART system at the Student Senate meeting Monday. 
The topic was addressed by senate earlier this year and a resolution to the provost re­garding problems with DART and the availability of classes prompted O'Meara to speak to the senate. 
Senate members recounted troubles with availability of not only courses in their majors, but also in required courses and electives. According to O'Meara, the areas with the most problems are "English, Government, and, to a lesser degree, History." 
Students in senate advised O'Meara of difficulties ranging from inability to take a desired elective to being forced to change majors in the interest of being able to get enough .courses to complete the major. 
A suggested solution to the problem of DART, a system which puts students with early registration appointments at a remarkable advantage over others, was to stagger regis­tration so that only some classes were signed up for dur­ing the initial registration. 
A second week would be added, in which students could sign up for electives. This would allow those students with a high interest in a class to sign up for it prior to other students. 
Another senate member sug­gested that those students who had late registration one semester should be given first priority the next semester. 
O'Meara said that department heads are capable of putting locks on their departments so that only students with specific majors can register for them, and he said that the check­marking process by which students can repeatedly find out about new openings in classes was not known by all students. 
A senate member noted that some advisors were not com­pletely familiar with the system, and should be better informed. 
Also mentioned was the need for better publicity of the list of classes that were closed at any particular time. 
O'Meara mentioned that a solution was needed to the double-jeopardy a student is confronted with when he finds that a desired class is available, but already has a full schedule and therefore must go back and drop one class, only to find that during this process the ini­tial course has been filled. 
He hopes it will soon be pos­sible to temporarily add an ex­tra course to the schedule on the computer and then go back and drop the second-choice class. 
One student advised that O'Meara enlist the help of busi­ness students, who had been discussing DART in their classes. 
Added to the problems of the computer system itself is the lack of availability of classes. Since professors are teaching more graduate classes and be-
see SENATE I page 7 
-------r--~1 .-----­
The Observer Tuesday, February 6, 1990
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Elvis lives ... in the minds of the mindless 
For the past 12 years. every tabloid newspaper has had one story to fall back on when UFO and Bigfoot sightings were down and Hol­

lywood love affiars Robyn Simmons weren't hot enough: Asst. Accent Editor 
Elvis. 
The King has been --------­dead since 1977, but his reign continues. People just can't seem to get enough of him. His followers make faithful pilgrimages to Graceland and weep over his grave, placing flowers near h1s tombstone. 
Elvis has reportedly been sighted in a convenience store and driving along a deserted country road. People seem to spot him everywhere. Some women say they ha_ve borne his illegitimate children (all born w1th jet black hair and sideburns). All of the~e people who claim they have seen Elv1s usually come from towns with a population of 20 and a collective J.Q. lower than that. 
If I ever met the King, I wouldn't go run­ning to the National Enquirer. I'd show him around campus. I could introduce him at parties, " ... and these are my friends Nancy, Lisa and Elvis." 
Since he seemed to have an affinity for eat­ing lots of food, he could probably work in the dining hall. Elvis would also make N.D. a dry campus at last. As I recall, he also had an affinity for intoxicating substances. Monk Malloy could enlist him as a drugs/alcohol officer. . 
Elvis would go from party to party saymg. ''I'm afraid the party's over. I've got my orders to drink fwery last drop of beer in the placn. I'll just start drinking from the tap." 
With Elvis on campus, he could hold eon­cnrts evnry wenk in the JACC. People from all over would flock to hear him and sec him wiggln onstage. With all of his fans travel­ing to sen the King, South Bend/Mishawaka would truly be "alive with pride." 
Elvis had an outstanding voice, and his 
pnrformances were equally Hnthralling. But 
the fact remains that Elvis never wrote any 
of his songs, he hit on a 14-ycar-old 
Priscilla when he was 25, and by the end of 
his life was a bloated. walking pharmacy. 
Of all the people anyone would want to bring baek to life, why should it be Elvis? I don't hear of people sighting Martin Luther King or Gandhi in the grocery store buying Oreos. Why aren't people looking for ghosts of truly great 'leaders instead of a talented performHr who let fame go to his hHad? Seeing Elvis is just wishful thinking, and those who keep looking for him should spend their time more productively. 
So let me make it clear once and for all: Elvis is dead, he has been for 12 years, and he's not coming back. But I did see John Lennon in the 7-11 the other day ... 
(This column appeared in The Observer on Sept. 8, 1988.) 
I ­
··!h~N9~~
l
I (219)-239-7471 
j Today's Staff: 
! Production News Wendy Cunningham Amy Leroux Annal J. Gallanosa Greg Lucas 
Joe Moody 
VIewpoint 
Molly Schwartz 
Accent 
Paige Smoron Systems Alison Cocks Gilbert Gomez Fran Moyer Deb Walker 
Ad Design 
Val Poletto Ryan Roberts Anita Covelli Lisa Gunsorek 
Sports 
Scott Brutocao 
Graphics 
Bradford J. Boehm 
Tl;e Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday "1:":,.•gh Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The r·:! ·'"rver Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
·· :,. are reserved. 
WEATHER Forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 6. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

Pressure
®© 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
OF INTEREST 
Yesterday's high: 30 Yesterday's low: 24 Nation's high: 87 
(Daytona Beach, Fla.) 
Nation's low: -24 
(Houton, Maine) 
Forecast: 
Increasing cloudiness Tuesday with a 30 percent chance of light rain late in the day. Highs in the middle 40s. Cloudy Tuesday night with a 50 percent chance of light rain. Lows in the middle 30s. Mostly cloudy Wednesday, but partial clearing late in the day. Highs around 40. 
Summer employment applications are now available for summer hall manager (full-time) and assis­tant manager (part-time) in the Office of Student Residences, 311 Administration Building. The deadline for return of applications is Mareh 15. 
Juniors needed to help with the Junior Class Service Project at the Safe Station Runaway Shelter. If interested in being a volunteer or a driver (only 2 hours a week) please call Katie O'Connell (#2798) or Jim Ferrick (# 1928). 
The NO Martial Arts Institute is still aecepting new members for its beginning dasses Thursday from 6 -8:30 and Sunday 6:30-8:30 in Hoom 219 of the Hockne Memorial. The institute teaches both Tae Kwon Do and Ju Jitsu. 
esc Mexico Summer Project: All partieipants are asked to attend a meeting tonight at 7:30 in the esc. Deposit ehecks are due at the meeting. Questions? Call Dave Krier at 283-1145. 
The campus chapter of Habitat for humanity, a Christian Housing ministry which builds and rehabilitates homes for eeonomically disadvantaged families in the eommunity, will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 
7:30 in the esc. All are welcome. 
The Investment Club will have a presrmtation and subsequent meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 6 at 7 p.m. in Hoom 122 Hayes-Healy. All members and anyone intnrested in getting involved should attend. 
For those interested in playing GOT(:J lA, tlw sur­vival game, there will be sign-ups in the dining halls dur-. ing dinner tonight and Wednesday. 
WORLD A dentist was acquitted Monday of' indnenntly as-
A new commission has been asked to figure out saulting seven women patients aftnr a judge ruled that a what would happen to Florida if Cuba's Communist sedative administered to them eould have causr~d sexual regime lost power, Gov. Bob Martinez said ~o.nda~. fantasies. Neil Larah, 32, was accused of fondling six of Martinez said he has no information that change 1s 1mm1-the women in his ofliee and sexually assaulting another nent, but he believes the state should be ready in case after following her home. llowever, the judge ordered the Fidel Castro, in power since 1959, follows other jury to acquit him after hearing evidenee from a leading Communist leaders out of power. "It's pretty hard to be-anesthetist that the sedative Valium, injeeted as a relax­lieve that he can eontinue to get support from a system ant, could have caused the women to believe in "unreal that no longer exists," Martinez said. experienees." 
Engineers interested in making the mun­dane eomplicated must use at least 25 steps to screw a lid onto a canning jar in the eighth an­nual Rube Goldberg competition at Purdue University on Feb. 17. Winners of the campus contest this month will compete against winners from other eolleges and universities on Mareh 17 at Purdue. Past challenges have included sharpen­ing a pencil and preparing an egg for frying. 
INDIANA 
A contract worth up to $100 million for running Indiana's on-line computer lottery game could be awarded this week, lottery officials said. Weliever could decide on awarding the deal by Friday. Indiana Jaw requires an on-line game to be in place by June 1. 
NATIONAL 
A volunteer work crew made up of recovering drug addicts in East Palo Alto, California gave a fresh coat of paint to the home of anti-drug crusader C.W. Roddy. They also covered up bullet holes in the home of the 60-year­old woman, who was wounded when a hail of bullets was fired into her house on New Year's Day. Roddy has com­plained for two years to police, city and eounty authori­ties about drug activities in her neighborhood. 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index 183.35 {t .60 S&P Composite /\. 331.85 v .93 Dow Jones Industrials 2622.52 {} 19.82 
Precious Metals 
Gold {t $4.20 to $422.40/ oz. 
Silveri} 2.4¢ to $5.358/ oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On February 6: 
e In 1899: A peace treaty be­tween the United States and Spain was ratified by the U.S. Senate. e In 1933: The 20th Amend­ment to the Constitution -the "lame duck" amendment ­was declared in effect. e In 1952: Britain's King Ge­orge VI died; he was succeeded to the throne by his daughter, Elizabeth II. e In 1978: Muriel Humphrey took the oath of office as a U.S. senator from Minnesota, filling the seat of her late husband, former Vice President Hubert Humphrey. 
------~--~~------------------~ 
I I 
J 
1 
1 
I 
I 
Tuesday, February 6, 1990 The Observer page 3 

JERUSALEM (AP) -Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir de­manded Monday that Egypt track down and punish those responsible for a desert bus attack in which nine people were killed. and Israelis mourned their dead with silence and screams of anguish. 
Israeli leaders said the latest Middle East peace efforts should not be thwarted by public outrage over Sunday's attack -the worst on Israelis in Egypt since the two countries signed a peace treaty in 1979. 
Newspaper editorials noted, however. that the incident would almost certainly boost support for hard-line views toward Arabs. 
Israeli victims flown home by military jet from Egypt's capital gave harrowing accounts of the several minutes during which two gunmen on a desert road raked their bus with gunfire and hurled grenades inside. 
"Everyone saw his death," said Professor Yigal Barak, a passenger who was un­hurt."There was nobody who could protect us, nobody car­ried any weapons." 
"I felt like a Jew who is facing the Nazis," said Judith Benjamini, 63, of Tel Aviv, describing the death of her 72-year-old husband, lshachar. 
All the dead were Israelis, and there were 21 people wounded, including an Egyptian tour guide. 
In Washington, the State Department called the attack an "outrageous act" designed to halt efforts toward reconciliation and dialogue between Arabs and Israelis. 
President Bush called Shamir to express his sorrow and Secretary of State James A. Baker III relayed a similar message in calls to the Israeli and Egyptian foreign ministers, department spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler said. 
Shamir told Parliament: "Our first demand from Egyptian leaders is to find the perpetrators of the crime and bring them to speedy trial and punish them severely." 
He said Israel would go ahead with its peace initiative calling for Palestinian elections but also would try to "liquidate blood-thirsty" terrorism. 
~--Ihe-===-ObserYer---==--­
Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m. Friday, February 9. 
News Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Viewpoint Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Systems Manager Advertising Manager Ad Design Manager Production Manager OTSManager Controller Art Director 
A two-page personal statement and a respme must be submitted to Alison Cocks by 2 p.m. Monday, February 12. 
Right-wing mobilizes against F.W. deKierk 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -The main right­wing political party Monday called on whites to mobilize against "the revolutionary left­wing announcements" of President F.W. de Klerk. 
The leader of the Conservative Party; Andries Treurnicht, said South Africa's 5 million whites faced "the hour of truth." His party ap­plied for a permit for a mass march in Pretoria on Feb. 15 to launch a "freedom struggle" aimed at protecting whites from domination by the black majority. 
De Klerk, in a momentous speech last week, lifted bans on more than 60 anti-apartheid groups, including the African National Congress guerrilla movement, and promised to free jailed ANC leader Nelson Mandela in hopes of clearing the way for negotiations on black-white power sharing. 
"The Afrikaner nation is not prepared to live under an over­whelmingly ANC government," said a statement from the Conservative Party, which won 31 percent of the white vote in a general election in September. 
In other developments: 
-Police used tear gas and buckshot to disperse throngs of black protesters in Tembisa and Thokoza, two townships near Johannesburg. Several people reportedly were injured in the confrontations, and an­gry youths erected street barri­cades in each town. 
-Cabinet ministers said the government sought a new polit­ical system in which all South Africans had full voting rights. But they said special protection would be required for whites, and reaffirmed government support for segregated neigh­borhoods and public schools. 
Several far-right groups have vowed to Tesist de Klerk's re­forms. Fears of an extremist backlash increased after an at­tack Sunday on the British Embassy in Pretoria. 
Assailants shot out windows at the embassy, a day after right-wing graffiti was spray­painted on the building. Embassy spokesman John Sawyer said it was suspected that the assailants were an­gered by Britain's support for de Klerk. 
Robert von Tonder, leader of a group that seeks a whites­only homeland, said de Klerk's changes could prompt the for­mation of an underground white guerrilla movement. 
Five whites were arrested re­cently on suspicion of planning attacks against de Klerk and other government leaders as well as anti-apartheid activists. 
see AFRICA! page 4 
SMC administrator to chair College Board 
By JULIE RYAN News Writer 
Mary Ann Rowan, director of admission at Saint Mary's College, was elected to a three­year term as chairperson of the Midwest Region of the College Board. 
Rowan previously served as a member of the Executive Committee in 1988-89 and as vice chairperson in 1989-90. 
Nominations for chairperson were submitted by members of the Midwest Region and then voted on, said Rowan. 
The College Board is a non­profit, educational association serving students, high schools and colleges through programs designed to expand educational opportunities, such as the preparation of high school stu­dents for college, said Rowan. 
The board is divided into six regions; the Midwest region is composed of thirteen states, according to Saint Mary's ad­mission office. 
As chairperson of the Midwest Region of the College Board, Rowan would act as a 
representative of the Midwest 
in establishing policies, ad­
dressing issues and concerns of 
the members in her region, se­
lecting candidates to represent 
the region in various national 
committees and councils 
establishing regional commit-· 
tees and promoting the pro­
grams the College Board offers, 
said the Admission Office. 
The Executive Committee has been instrumental in reviewing and offering advice about the College Board's planning pro­cess and in ways the board can further its goals, said the ad­missions office. 
Pre-college guidance and counseling and encouragement of pursuing a higher education have been major concerns of the committee in recent years, and Rowan plans on continuing these goals. 
"I would like to encourage more people to use services of the College Board," said Rowan. "MorP. importantly, I would like to involve more of the membership in College Board activities so that the ser­vices can be broadened." 

r----------......_..-.._-~­
~­
page 4 
Iceberg Debate update 
The following are the results of The following is the schedule Round One of the Iceberg for Round Two of the Iceberg Debates held throughout Debates to be held campus last night: VVednesday, Feb. 7 The 
resolution will be the same as Resolution: "That the use of Round One. narcotic drugs should be made legal in the United States." 
Aff at Grace I Aff lloward-0 Neg Flanner I Neg Grace 1-2 
Aff at Knott Aff Off-Campus II -0 Neg Pangborn Neg Knott-2 
Aff at Breen-Phillips Aff Pangborn-2 Neg Off-Campus II Neg Carroll-0 
AfT at Farley Afl' Pasquerilla West-1 Neg Grace II Neg Flanner II -1 
Aff at Cavanaugh Neg Pasquerilla EastAfl' Grace II-0 Neg Breen-Phillips-2 Afl' at Stanford Neg Pasquerilla WestAfl' Pasquerilla East-2 Neg Keenan -0 Aff at Lyons Neg MorrisseyAff Morrissey -0 Neg Stanford -2 Aff at St. Edwards Neg SiegfriedAff Siegfried -2 Neg Sorin-0 Afl' at Keenan Neg LewisAfl' Lewis-0 Neg Cavanaugh -2 Aff at Flanner II Neg WalshAll' Walsh-2 Neg Badin-0 Aff at Badin Neg Off-Campus IAfl' (lfl'-Campus I -1 Neg Zahm-1 Aff at Sorin Neg Holy Cross Aff lloly Cross-1 Neg Lyons-1 Aff at Alumni Neg llowardAfT Flanrwr 1-2 Neg Alumni-0 
Af'f at Carroll
Aff Dillon-2 
Neg DillonNeg St. Edwards -0 Afl' at Zahm
Afl' Fisher-1 
Neg Fisher
Neg Farley-1 

A public service message from The Observer 
~---------~--­
-. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 6, 1990 

Hugs not drugs 
AP Photo 
Nancy Reagan holds a young girl from the House of Hope in Orlando, Fla., a shelter for troubled and abused teenage girls. The Reagan's were in Orlando Sunday to receive the first annual House of Hope Humanitarian Award. 
a full, equal franchise in a mul­"tremendous chaos."
Africa 
tiparty democracy. This should be achieved "without prejudic­Herman Kriel, minister of
continued from page 3 
ing the rights of minorities planning and provincial affairs, 
Most right-wing whites are against domination," he said. said the government had no Afrikaners. Primarily of Dutch plans to repeal the Group Areas descent, they began settling in Other Cabinet ministers de­Act, which mandates segrega­South Africa more than 300 fendPd segregation of neigh­tion of residential anms. years ago and now account for borhoods and public schools. 60 percent of the 5 million Krinl said the aet might be whites. "Black people should be run­placed on tlw agenda during 
ning their own education and negotiations with blaek leaders. 
In Parliament, Constitutional white people should be running But he said thn right of whites Development Minister Gerritt their own education." said to live in segregated neighbor­Viljoen said the government Stoffel van der Merwe, who hoods was an "indispensabll~ 
sought a new constitution that oversees education for blacks. principle" of the governing would ensure all South Africans Otherwise, he said, there will bn National Party. 
WE WANT YOU!! 
If you are looking for a challenge and are dependable, then we are looking for you! 
Come to the Dooley Room in The LaFortune Student Center Thursday, Feb 8th, between 4:00pm & 7:00 pm to find out more about these jobs! 
LaFortune Building lvfanager Stepan Center Building Manger Information Desk Games Room 0 f /ice Assistant Sound tees 
Or stop by the Information Desk and apply! 

When the Great American Dream isn't Great Enough 
Have you considered? 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
A one-year program located at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame for college graduates who are seriously interested in exploring a vocation as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
For information: 
Fr. John Conley, CSC Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 239·6385 

D D 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
The Observer is currently seeking an enthusiastic student to fill the following position: 
Business Manager 
• 
Oversee production of a newspaper. 

• 
Work with these seven departments: Advertising, Circulation, Business, Production, Systems, Observer Typesetting, and Ad Design 

• 
Will be responsible for planning and implementing a balanced budget for the student newspaper. 

• 
Need to be a motivator, planner, and trouble shooter. 

• 
No previous newspaper publishing experience necessary. 


A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m. Friday, February 9. For further information about the benefits of this position, contact Alison Cocks at 239-7471. 
_Ihe=Obset:Ver-= 
D D 
I., ' 
'/ If I 1 ' 
Tuesday, February 6, 1990 The Observer 
page 5 
Thatcher and Jackson discuss South Africa 
Washing at Washinaton 
The Observer/ Bill Mowle Shown here are the new wasning machines, ready for their first load, that were installed recently in Washington Hall. 
Indian guards fire on Pakistanis 
NEW DELHI, India (AP) ­Indian border guards opened fire on Pakistani protesters who swarmed into Indian terri­tory in the northern state of .Jammu-Kashmir on Monday, officials said. 
At least 1 0 people were be­lieved injured in the shooting, the government's chief spokesman said; Pakistani offi­cials said one protester was killed and 13 others were shot in the legs. 
The episode occurred near Ranbirsinghpura in .Jammu re­gion, 310 miles north of New Delhi, said the spokesman, who cannot be identified under briefing rules. 
The demonstrators who shouted anti-India slogans 
were protesting a recent Indian government crackdown on Moslem separatists in the Kashmir region of .Jammu­Kashmir. said a Pakistani po­lice official in Sialkot, about three miles from the border. 
The Indian spokesman said about 4,000 demonstrators gathered on the Pakistani side and tried to cross the border. "Despite efforts by the Pakistani rangers, some people crossed over and the Indian se­curity forces had to fire to con­trol the situation." He said without elaborating. 
A Foreign Ministry spokesman said Pakistan's top diplomat in India, Rashid Babar, was summoned to the Foreign Office and was told of India's "concern and deep re­gret" at the "unprovoked inci­dent." 
The Pakistan government did 
not immediately react to the in­cident. 
In Jammu, a senior official of the Indian Border Security Force, which guards the area, said the trouble started around 
noon when about 500 people gathered near the border and shouted "provocative slogans." 
He said the commander of the Border Security Force outpost then called Pakistani officers into the Indian territory to dis­cuss the situation, following which the Pakistani forces dis­persed the crowd. 

s-.. 
D 
! -~ 
"0 
c 

D 
..D CD 
c"' 
Q SEE Cfi~OSO LIVE 10PM F~IDfiY "IGttT fiT
" D 
LONDON (AP) Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and Jesse Jackson, the black 
U.S. civil rights leader, argued about sanctions against South Africa during a a 90-minute meeting Monday, but smiled for photographers afterward. 
Thatcher gave Jackson a message for jailed black leader Nelson Mandela saying many hopes rest with him, said a spokesman at her official resi­dence, 10 Downing Street, who asked that his name not be used. Jackson is on his way to South Africa. 
"We agreed to disagree," Jackson told reporters, refer­ring to Thatcher's opposition to sanctions. He added, "I feel we have a better feel for each other." 
.Jackson said Thatcher ex­pressed belief that President 
F.W. de Klerk of South Africa was committed to reforms he announced Friday, which in­clude legalizing the African National Congress guerrilla movement and the speedy re­lease of Mandela, an ANC leader when he went to jail nearly 28 years ago. 
"She happens to believe for the most part that the coura­geous steps taken by Mr. de Klerk will continue," Jackson said. "I believe they will con-
Budget 
continued from page 1 
tentions were good, she also implied that he went about it the wrong way. He shouldn't have exposed the Social Security program to the "attack" of the Republicans. 
Instead of simply proposing a payroll tax cut, Moynihan should also have proposed a non-payroll tax increase to en­sure the buildup of the "baby­boom" surplus. 
"The real fear is that in the future white middle-class workers will retire and minority immigrant workers will make up the work force," said Ghilarducci. These workers will be given the burden of support­ing the older retirees, unless there is a sufficient Social Security surplus fund . 
Ghilarducci said that elimi­nating tax deduction on "junk bonds" should be "investigated as an alternative" for generat­ing revenues. "Junk bonds" are tinue with encouragement, with stimulation to go forward, with deterrence to go backwards, with economic incentives if and when apartheid is dismantled." 
Both Jackson and the Thatcher spokesman said the unexpectedly long meeting was friendly, and Jackson promised to telephone with a report on his South African visit. 
"The prime minister asked Mr. Jackson to give Mr. Mandela a message," said the British spokesman; "Tell Mr. Mandela how many hopes ride on him for the future of his country." 
Jackson flew to Zambia on Monday night, and goes to South Africa on Wednesday for his first visit in more than a decade. He has been refused a visa since 1979 . 
"We committed ourselves to remain in dialogue as both of us search in our own way for a new South Africa and a new equation," Jackson said of the meeting with Mrs. Thatcher. 
At a news conference held for him earlier Monday by three black members of the House of Commons, Jackson said: "Sanctions and apartheid should end on the same day, and it ought to be soon. 
would be encouraged. 
"Liberal economists, myself included, are yelling for tax in­creases," said Ghilarducci. Income and corporate tax in­creases are necessary for gen­erating revenues that will help decrease the deficit and also eliminate the regressivity of payroll taxes. 
The Bush administration is optimistic that sources other than income and corporate tax increases will generate rev­enues. According to Bush's proposed budget, revenues will grow 9 percent in the next fis­cal year. Also, the Gross National Product is predicted to increase 2.6 percent. 
"No one has a rosier idea of what the economy will do than the White House," said Ghilarducci. 
Tax revenue projections are very sensitive to economic growth, according to Ghilarducci. She implied that the Bush budget over-projected in its figures for revenue in­crease. 
Among the good points of the 

THE PYRAMID OF PARIS 
Contemporary art and.architecture, including 
I. M. Pet's glass pyramtd at the Louvre, are two of the focal points of our 1990 Summer Program. 
A More than 40 A A short course on the French 
Intersession:
regular offerings on the history of Riviera from the the Berlin Wall, May 28 -June 15 University's culminating in a 
A Weekend liberal arts five-day study excursions: Summer Session: curriculum trip June 18-July 27
Normandy, Champagne, A A three-week A Seminar tours: Loire Valley 
Send for our 1990 
French language medieval and chateaux, and 
immersion Givemy Summer Program Brochure 
SIMMER PROGRAM 1BBO 
The American University of Paris Summer Programs/U.S. Office 80 East lith Street, Suite 434 New York, New York 10003 'ret. (lll) 677-4870 Fax. (lll) 475-5205 
bonds issued by investment bankers which serve mainly as a means for borrowing money. 
This money is generally used to take over other companies. Presently, there is a tax deduc­tion on sale of "junk bonds." 
Mergers and acquisitions would be discouraged if these tax deductions were eliminated. Instead, individual investment Bush budget, according to Ghilarducci, are that it calls for some cuts in military spending, and it's not a shark attack on domestic service programs. 
Ghilarducci cited as bad points that the budget does not address important issues such as education, the growing inequity between the wealthy and the poor, and the deficit. 
Panel Discussion Women Practicing Law 
Moderator: Teresa Godwin Phelps Professor of Law, University of Notre Dame 
Panel: Tang thanh Trai Le, Docteur en Droit, Ph.D.,JD Chief Judge, Superior Court, St Joseph County Adjunct Professor of Law, Notre Dame Law School 
Ann Firth, J.D.
Carmen M. Piasecki, J.D. 
Director of Residence UtePartner, Nickle & Piasecki University of Notre Dame 
VVednesday,Feb. 7,1990 7:00p.m. Courtroom, Notre Dame Law School Sponsored by VVomens Legal Forum 
.. ' 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, February 6, 1990 
r 
I I 
I 
Abortion 
continued from page 1 
allows individuals to take what they want while ignoring the rights of others. "I pray that no one in this room will evnr depend for your life on the values of someone else," said Burtchaell. 
Burtduwll focused on the is­sue from a Theologian's point of view and made rnfenmces to thn Bibh~. lie said that he would focus on abortion as a moral issue and not so much as a le­gal or political issue. Burtehanll ehallenged the audi­ence saying, "What do you think, might it be even more ruthless to ignore oppression than to inflict it'?" 
The second pro-ehoiee speaker, Kronenberger, also challenged the audience, asking them "What does it mean for something to be sacred?" lie said that whiln pro-life advo­eates believe that an embryo is saered, he does not agree-the idea of a embryo with a right to life is "an intellectual concept." 
He pointed to what he calls the "slippery slope" argument, accusing pro-life advocates of saying that there is some point between conception and birth when life begins, but "you can't lind it so you slide down that slippery slope from conception and you get there." Kronenberger told the audience that there is no place between birth and conception where life begins, which he attempted to clarify later in the debate. 
In her opening statement, freeman received much sup­port from the predominantly pro-life crowd. She pointed out that while many women will criticize abortion on the basis of sex selection, they do not oppose selective abortion of fe­tuses on account of deformities or timing. 
She examined the role of the pro-life woman and criticized pro-choice advoeates such as Faye Wattleton, president of Planned Parenthood Federation of Ameriea. "Pro-abortion fem­inists don't want women to be second-elass citizens... but somewhere along the way all 

LAlE III iiY DLYMrll:C~ ~-'I 
TOMORROW IS THE DEADLINE FOR 
I 
ENTRIES 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9 AT THE JACC $1.00 ADMISSION/DONATION AT THE DOOR ENTERGATE2 
SPONSORED BY NVA 
PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
8-year-old suspended, sent to counseling for single beer 
RICHMOND, Va. (AP) -A third-grade student who took an unopened can of beer con­sidered a collectors' item to "show-and-tell" at school was suspended for three days, an action that the girl's mother said Monday was ridiculous. 
"I am furious," said Melissa Woodfin, whose 8-year-old daughter, Haley, also must un­dergo counseling for illegal possession of an alcoholic bev­erage for taking a can of Billy Beer to show her classmates last week at Skipwith Elementary School. 
"My daughter has been treated unfairly," Mrs. Woodfin said. "She has lost three days of school with no right to make up thn work, according to the poliey." 
Mrs. Woodfin said lwr daughter renHJvPd the can of beer from a display easn at home. The beer, no longer made, was namnd for Prnsident Carter's late brother, and unope1ied cans arn considnrnd collector's items. 
"She took it for show and tell," Mrs. Woodlin said. "She didn't run into a closet and pop 
In addition to the suspension from the school in suburban Henrico County, police were no­tified that Haley had possessed an alcoholie beverage illegally. 
School officials said the steps were taken undN a strict drug and substance abuse policy to which any child is subject if caught in possession of drugs or alcohol, regardless of age. 
"Suspending young people is not what we are about," said llenrieo School Superintendent William C. Bosher Jr. "But we want to lwlp young people un­derstand that alcohol and drugs aw not appropriate." 
"I have no problem with tlwm having a policy, but you can't treat a third-gradnr tlw way you would a tPPn-ager," Mrs. Wood lin said. 
Boslwr acknowlndged that the suspension of an elnnwn­tary school pupil was unusual. lie said suspPnsion is a way to get the attnntion of pan~nts and bring pan~nts. Pducators and the pupil togPllwr to discuss a 
111111111111111111111111111111 

Tuesday, Februa~·~6~·~1~9~9~0________________________________T~h~e~O~bs~e~N~e~r----------------------------------------------~p~a~g~e~7 

AP Photo Civil Defense Rescuers help a Moslem tenant escape the ruins of his home in Moslem West Beirut. The house was destroyed hours before by a stray shell from a mini-war raging in east Beirut between rival renegade Gen. Michel Aoun's forces and Militia Chieftain Samir Geagea. 
Tanks break Christian stronghold 
BEIHUT, Lebanon (API -GPn. \1ichPI Aoun's tanks broke into a stronghold of his Christian militia rivals Monday, aftPr a WPPk of battle, and ad­vanced toward tlw command post of Lebanese Forces chin!' Samir Gnagr•a. police said. 
Tlwy said tlw tanks, with cannons blazing, drove to within 300 yards of the Kassardjian militia base in Ein Hummannh. a working-class district of Christian east Beirut. 
Witnesses in hills above the Christian sector. reached by telephone from Cyprus, re­ported heavy fighting in Ein Rummaneh south of the Karantina quarter, where Gcagtm has his headquarters. 
Explosions echoed across the city as militiamen crouching in alleyways fired armor-piercing rockets at the tanks and their comrades hurled grenades from rooftops. 
Shells hit hospitals, schools, and churches. They set fuel tanks. power plants, factories and apartment houses ablaze. 
Fires burned out of control because pumping stations wen~ knocked out and no water was available to fight them. 
Several hospitals said they they could not function for more than two or three days because water, blood, plasma and oxygen supplies were vir­tually exhausted. 
Shellfire slackened in some districts at dawn Monday, al­lowing tens of thousands of civilians to leave basements and underground bomb shelters where some had lived for six days. 
Youssef Khazen, 35, said his electrical tools store in east Beirut residential district of Ashrafiyeh was destroyed. 
"You can't bPiieve what those monsters have done to us," he said. "They've ruined us. Ashrafiyeh looks like it was hit by a hurrieane." 
In Geneva, the International Committee of the Red Cross asked for an immediate truce so it could help eiyilians. 
Geagea has said the 6,000 regulars and 30,000 reservists of the Lebanese Forces, the largest Christian militia, would "resist unto death ... to end the dictator's reign of terror" in Christian territory north and east of Beirut. 
On Monday, his paratroopers secured the key coastal town of Dbaye, 5 miles north of Beirut. They seized it Sunday in a fierce hand-to-hand battle. 
··· -------· -· -----· -· ------------··s:·o-~ s~ ---N E-E·o·s· ··va·ur------------------------------l 
i We need your ideas for Campus i iEntertainment, Musical Entertainment, i Special Events, Performing Arts, i iServices, Publicity, and Relations. i 
i 
i 
Find out how you can make things l happen! i Meet at the S.U.B. office, 2nd floor j LaFortune i 6-7pm Thursday, February 8th. ii Refreshments provided. i 
. i 
-------.• ---· ---· ....... --... -· ... ------........... --............... --........ -----· ........................... -· --.... -· .......... --.... -· -· -----· _j 
Party 
continued from page 1 
Committee meeting had shaped up as a major struggle between reformers and conservatives over the future of the party. There had been rumors that conservatives would attack Gorbachev, accusing him of bringing on economic collapse and ethnic unrest with his re­forms. 
Gorbachev's address Monday 
granted the basic demands of 
the hundreds of thousands of. 
people who swept 60 abreast 
through the streets of the capi­
tal on Sunday. Communist re­
formers and non-Communists 
demanded the party give up its 
exclusive claim to power. 
Reformer Boris Yeltsin, one 
of the leaders of the rally, told 
the Central Committee the new 
platform did not go far enough. 
"In general, the impression is 
formed that it was written by 
two hands -both the left and 
On exhibition 
the right," he said. 
Small political parties already are forming in the Baltic re­publics, where Communist lead­ers are leading the drive to eliminate the party's guaran­teed role. 
Gorbachev said in Lithuania last month it would be "no tragedy" if a multiparty system evolved to replace the party's hold on power, but that such a system was not a panacea. 
Transcripts released by the Tass news agency indicated Gorbachev underwent immedi­ate, stinging criticism at the Central Committee meeting for a lack of decisiveness. 
"Is it not time for you, Mikhail Sergeyevich, and the leadership of the country as a whole to seriously think about the fate of the socialist gov­ernment, over the fate of honest laboring people, and take the most direct radical measures before it's too late?" asked the first speaker, Kiev party chief 
A.l. Kornienko. 
The Observer I Bill Mowle 


A loan spectator admires the various architectural works that are being exhibited in the Architecture building. 

Summer Service Projects 
Summer Service Projects APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEB. 7 
$1400.00 Scholarship 
Eigh~ weeks of service work during the summer In cities of Alumni Clubs all over the u.s. 
Information meeting: Feb. 7, 7 PM Center for Social Concerns 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
coming involved in research, their undergraduate load is diminishing. 
There are two reasons for this, according to O'Meara. The first is that Notre Dame wishes to keep up with "the competi­tion," ivy league universities which encourage graduate teaching. The second is that the University considers both teaching and research impor­tant. 
Some courses are offered only certain semesters, and O'Meara said that although the registrar does not always have much prior notice as to what classes will be available when, 
heads often do. 
(ltl/il/Ju•jhxlmllt'l7il~rl · np}hnmq/1 tauru. ft'fllril•g luu1dTr¥l.'i hmrwb>xo.;. ffymt mn'l ~:/IWY' .'ilrr111' tum• ttlllt'IJI. . .,II0/1 tmqhl to /11• n..o.;Jmt~u¥1 
~· 
.. : ' 
The Observer 
page 8 

Calllpus Ministry and You 
(?MPUS
----------------------MINISTRY­
SEX AND THE SINGLE NOTRE DAME CHRISTIAN 
"In the beginning was lust. The godly, as well as the human principle is desire. Gravity, light, magnetism, thought may be aspects of the same universal longing. Suffering, emptiness, darkness are nothing more than interruptions of a cosmic orgasm that grows forever in intensity."-Issac Bashevis Singer 
"God created human beings in God's own image; in the image of God they were created; male and female tney were created." -Genesis 
"The unfolding of sexuality is also the unfolding of the human spirit -or at least it can be. The stunting of sexual development which happens when sex is kept from the rest of life means that people often remain curiously immature sexually." ­Rosemary Haughton 
The following are not true stories about real people -at least not intentionally. But they are sexual stories, and do have some elements with which many of us can identify. 
1. 
Sue and George are convinced that no one understands them as well as they understand each other. They've been having physical sex for about two years, and kept that fact hidden from their parents or any older person. Their relationship is the only place either feels fully alive but it's unclear whether it's based more on lust or on love. The relationship seems to have only highs and lows and their friends, while envying some of what they have going consider the relationship somewhat dependent and immature. Independent of each other, Sue and George wonder if their love­bubble will soon burst and be replaced by pain. At some level, they're sure it will. 

2. 
Sam and Eric are roommates and friends. One night, while play-wrestling on the floor of their room, Eric noticeably gets an erection. They stop playing and Sam leaves the room, returning after a few hours. Both never discuss it, and try to act as if nothing had happened, but in their minds both continue to wonder: "what does this say about me?" 

3. 
Somehow, Bill had always gotten the message that, for him and for any good person, sex was an unacceptable part of life. As a result, a lot of his energy goes into denying that he is at all sexual. He cannot accept that any person can be both sexual and good, except maybe when they're married. 


As a result, Bill's curiosity about sex is insatiable. He is very curious about the bodies of other people and completely detached from awareness about his own. While he gets very embarrassed whenever anyone talks explicitly about sex, he is preoccupied with it in private through compulsive masturbation, pornography and fantasy. He never discusses this with anyone, except in quick and anonymous confessions. 
4. As a child, Jenny was subjected to severe physical and emotional abuse, and learned to be very afraid of people. She just wanted to be left alone, but when alone she felt miserable. At thirteen, she attempted suicide. She didn't trust anyone, and spent time fantasizing -often to the point of orgasm -ways she could hurt herself. 
At 18, still a virgin, she was raped by the caretaker of the building where she lived. From then on, she has made herself available to him whenever he wants her. She tells her friends that he is her uncle, and she lives with him and her aunt. She also lies to them about every other aspect of her life. 
The next few articles in the campus ministry column will be dealing with the issue of sexuality. It will be dealing with how Sue and George and Sam and Eric and Bill and Jenny and other Christians can reconcile their sexuality with other aspects of their human lives. 
What t'hete articles will be talking about is who we are at the core -what it esaentially means, from a Chriltian perspective, to be a human being. 
Part I 
To be a human being means to be a sexual being. All of us, whether celibate, married, promiscuous or monogamous are sexual beings. That means, at least that the same life force that went into creating us is actively alive within us, and will be recognized whether we allow it or not. Sexuality can be defined as the human way of being in and relating to the world. Because we are created either male or female, our way of being in the world (our sexuality, as defined) is either male or female. 
The central sexual issue for us as Christians is not so much what we do or don't do with various parts of our bodies; the central sexual issue is how we are in the world and how we relate in the world. 
What we do in the world we do with and through our bodies, which are either male or female. Anything done through our bodies is, by definition, done sexually: looking; smelling; tasting; touching; shaking hands; kissing; hugging; playing a game; roughhousing; performing; etc. All physical expressions are not limited to the sexual, but they are sexual. Whenever we present ourselves in our world we do so in ways that include the sexual. 
The primary problem about sexuality is not what we do -it's who we are. As we grow in our world, we grow intellectually, spiritually and sexually. These are not unrelated ways of growing. They work together. To the degree that we ignore the full development of any aspect of our being, we remain immature -not only in that aspect, but in all aspects. 
Of the intellectual, spiritual and sexual aspects of our lives, the one that we tend to least develop at Notre Dame is our sexuality, and to the extent that we continue to ignore its full and healthy development to that extent we fail to mature and, thus, fail as Christians. 
The Christian life is a mediated life. That means that persons committed to growing as Christians do not make their decisions in isolation, but in consultation with the sense and insight of those they consider wise in the Christian community. 
Students at Notre Dame will seek mediation on a number of crucial issues in their developing lives: career, family, courses of study, travel, restaurant selection, love. Opportunities for mediation are both presented and sought out in halls, with a favorite advisor, through the counseling center or with campus ministry. 
Unless they are in some serious trouble, though, rarely do students openly and honestly discuss their developing sexuality with a trusted advisor. As a result, sexuality can remain an underdeveloped, overly emphasized part of the Notre Dame student's life. 
In our culture, it seems, when it comes to sex, little is thought of more; little is integrated less. So, we have a choice. We can join the rest of our culture, which remains, on the whole, sexually infantile. Or, we can begin to grow sexually in ways that surpass our peers. 
There are many reasons that we wouldn't talk about our sexuality the same way we might discuss, say, our course schedule. Who we are at the core is much more personal than what we do in the classroom. Too, perhaps, there is fear that the only response we'll be given is "DON'T!", rather than profound listening followed by some sound, practical advice on how to integrate our sexuality into other aspects of our developing life. 
Especially at Notre Dame, students might assume that if they talk about their own, personal sexuality with someone they otherwise trust, that person will have an obligation to force them into the view: "until you're married, FORGET IT!" 
Yet in Christian teaching, sexuality -with the joy and pleasure it brings -is a very noble part of life. IfSue and George and Sam and Eric and Bill and Jenny don't hide their various sexual confusions, but bring them to a trusted advisor, they could well find their spirit unfolding in remarkable ways it otherwise never would. 

They could begin to find ways to integrate their sexuality into the rest of their spirituality, rather than continuing to see it as something that separates them form a spiritual life. 
The Sues and Georges could begin to learn that we don't find ourselves in relationships -we bring ourselves to them. Going to a relationship to find meaning and purpose creates unhealthy dependency -not healthy relationships. 
The Sams and Eries could begin to learn that their bodies react in ways over which they have little or no control at times, and that no definitive statements about them can be made based on any isolated reactions. If they were to talk to someone about it, they might learn how complicated the relationship between feelings, friendship, bodies, love and sex can be. They might learn that what happened might say little about their sexual orientation but a lot about their sexuality. 
The Bills could begin to grow from the shame­based existence in which they were raised and discover that the more they come to accept themselves and others as sexual the less compulsive will their sexual lives be. 
The Jennys could begin to work through issues of abuse and see themselves not as bad but as good and growing. Dependencies could begin to diminish and dishonesty could be replaced with comfort. 
All of them could begin to recognize how sexual behavior is woven in with many other -often unconscious-needs eg: the need to prove one's identity or self-worth; the need to avoid loneliness; the need to express aggression. 
All of them, and any Notre Dame Christian, could begin to understand how -even in the flesh of their sexuality -they can begin to meet the incarnate God and begin to realize how, through sexuality, the incarnate God reveals the meaning of their lives. 
Next: A Christian Theology of Sex, Shame and Guilt, Practical Christian Sexual Morality. 

It~ M(nistry anb 
·······~~~··~···-·~·· .. ··· 


Tuesday, Februa~~6~1~9~9~0~------------------------------~T~he~O~b~s~e~~e~r----------------------------------------------~p~a~ge__9 



FACUL7Y COURSE EVALUA710NS 
YOUR CHANCE 70 BE BEARD!! 
ALL DATA WILL BE TABULATED AND RESULTS WILL BE PUBLISHED IN A BOOKLET FOR YOUR BENEFIT 
• 
CHICK YOUR MAILBOX 

• 
,.IKE A MINU,.E TO FILL OU7 7HE FCE 

• 
YOU CAN OBTAIN THE NECESSARY COURSE INFORMA,.ION,NUMBERS FROM YOUR PAST SIMIS,.IR'S EPOR7 CARD 

• 
PLACE 711 RESULTS IN TBE RECEPTACLES LOCA,.ID IN THE LOBBY OF YOUR DORM BY 


FEB. 6 (Extended Deadline) ~ 
AP Photo President-elect Rafael Angel Calderon is congratulated by supporters after winning the Costa Rican presidential elections replacing Nobel Peace Prize-winning President Oscar Arias. 
Calderon to preside in Costa Rica 
SAN JOSE. Costa Rica (AP) - ture," he told 3,000 supporters  By Monday afternoon, the of­ 
President-elect Rafael Angel  gathered in downtown San  ficial count showed Calderon  
Calderon said Monday hfl is "a  Jose.  leading Castillo by 656,282  
great friend of the United  Calderon, 40-year-old  votes to 604,396, with about 90  
States" and told a cheering  founder of the Social Christian  percent of precincts reporting.  
crowd he hopes to turn his elec­ Party, repeated campaign  Castillo broke even in San  
tion victory into "a triumph for  pledges to fight crime, poverty  Jose, the National Liberation  
all Costa Ricans."  and poor housing, but got the  Party stronghold. Calderon's  
On May 8, Calderon will suc­ biggest cheer when he asked  Social Christians were sweeping  
ceed Oscar Arias, who won the  for unity against drug traffick­ most of the countryside.  
1987 Nobel Peace Prize for de­ ing and corruption.  
veloping and promoting the  The festive crowd waved  "Today, we have elected lib­ 
Central American peace plan.  Costa Rican and red-and-blue  erty and democracy to the  
He attended Mass on Monday  Social Christian flags. People  presidency of Costa Rica,"  
at the Roman Catholic Basilica  gave loud, good-natured jeers  Castillo said in a graceful con­ 
de Los Angeles in Cartago, the  when a partisan of Carlos  cession speech Sunday night.  
colonial capital 15 miles east of  Manuel Castillo, candidate of  
hern.  the incumbent National  Calderon, who visited Panama  
"1 asked God to help me give  Liberation Party, waved a  shortly after the Dec. 20 U.S.  
the people of Costa Rica what  green-and-white party flag  invasion, is a strong supporter  
the people deserve: a bett(lr fu­ from a balcony.  of U.S. policy in the region.  

SECURITY BEAT 
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 31 10:07 p.m. Notre Dame police cited a  11 :45 p.m. No,re Dame Police cited a South Bend resident for Disregarding an  
South Bend resident for Disregarding a  Automatic Signal at the corner of Edison  
Stop Sign at the corner of Edison and  Road and Notre Dame Avenue and for  
Juniper Roads.  speeding on Edison Road · 62 mph in a  
posted 30 mph zone.  
THURSDAY, FEB.1  SATURDAY, FEB. 3  
7:50 a.m. A janitor reported that two  12:17 a.m. A South Bend resident  
rooms in Cushing Hall ·had been  reported that his car had been broken  
vandalized. Unknown persons spilled  into while it was parked in the Morris Inn  
beer on the carpets of the two rooms  Lot.  
and left a number of beer cans on the  1 :10 a.m. A Pennsylvania resident was  
floor.  cited by Notre Dame Police for  
2:30 p.m. An off campus student  Disregarding an Automatic Signal at the  
reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle  corner of Juniper Road and the  
from the front of O'Shag. The theft  Hesburgh Library Circle.  
occurred between 10:00 a.m. and 12:15  1:21 a.m. Notre Dame Police cited a  
p.m. His loss is estimated to be $200.00.  Mishawaka resident for Exceeding the  
6:00 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a  Posted Speed Limit. The defendant had  
Texas man for speeding. The defendant  been travelling 42 mph in a 25 mph zone  
had been travelling 46 mph in a posted  on Juniper Road.  
25 mph zone on Juniper Road.  4:28 a.m. Notre Dame Fire and  
9:24 p.m. A resident of South Bend was  Security/Police Departments were  
cited by Notre Dame Police for Passing  dispatched to Pangborn Hall for a fire  
on Double Yellow on Juniper Road.  alarm. Unknown person(s) had pulled  
9:43 p.m. An Ohio woman was cited by  one of the alarms.  
Notre Dame Police for Exceeding the  3:45 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident  
Posted Speed Limit on Juniper Road.  reported the theft of his backpack and  
The defendant had been travelling 44  watch from his room. His loss is  
mph in a 25 mph.  estimated to be $180.00.  
9:45 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident  11 :55 p.m. A South Bend resident was  
reported the theft of his leather jacket  cited by Notre Dame Police for No  
from outside a racquetball court in the  License in Possession.  
JACC. The theft occurred sometime  
between 9:00 and 9:30 p.m., and his loss  
is estimated at $100.00.  SUNDA~FEBRUARY4  
11 :45 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident  12:10 a.m. Notre Dame Police  
reported the theft of a back pack and  responded to the report of an accident  
contents from her unlocked room. Her  behind Lyons Hall. The driver of the  
loss is estimated to be $113.00.  vehicle had backed his car into a tree.  
The driver sustained minor injuries.  
12:56 a.m. Notre Dame Fire and  
FRIDAY, FEB. 2  Security/Police Departments responded  
4:20 a.m. An off campus student  to two fire alarms at Keenan-Stanford.  
reported the theft of his coat from the  Unknown person(s) had pulled an alarm  
Alumni-Senior Club sometime between  in Stanford at 12:56 and 2:03a.m.  
12:00 and 2:00a.m. His loss is estimated  7:20 p.m. A Mishawaka man was cited  
at $200.00.  by Notre Dame Police for Failure to  
8:40 a.m. Notre Dame Police  Carry Registration and Exceeding the  
responded to the report of a one car  Urban Speed Limit. The defendant had  
accident on Old Juniper Road. The road  been travelling 46 mph in a 30 mph zone  
caved in due to large amounts of rain,  on Notre Dame Avenue.  
and the car fell into the hole. The driver  8:30 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident  
of the car suffered a head injury.  reported the theft of a basketball, stereo  
system, and some cassettes from his  
2:30 p.m. Notre Dame Police were  unsecured vehicle. The theft occurred in  
called to the scene of a two car accident  the B-16 lot sometime between 8:30p.m.  
in the B-1 lot. Both vehicles were  on 2/3 and 6:30 p.m. on 2/4. His loss is  
damaged, but no injuries were reported.  estimated at $260.00.  
11 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a  
5:00p.m. A student under the age of 21  Connecticut woman for No License in  
was transporting four cases of beer on  Possession and Exceeding the Posted  
to campus. Notre Dame Security  Speed Limit. The defendant had been  
stopped the subject and, in accordance  travelling 50 mph in a 25 mph zone on  
with Du Lac, confiscated the beer.  Juniper Road.  

··~~~-~---~~----~ 
----~------~---~----------~--------------~~~~~~---~-.,-,~-~-------------------------­
Viewpoint
page 10 Tuesday, February 6, 1990 
The _-Obset:Ver 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly K•llen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Al1son Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Bailey OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstme G1ll Controller Anne L1ndner 
The Observer •s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un•vers•­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nl Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the adminiStratiOn of e1ther 1nst1tu!lon The news •s reported as accurately and ob­18Ct•vely as possible Uns•gned ed1tonals represent the opm1on ol the maJonty of the followmg Ed•tor-1n-Ch1ef Manag1ng Editor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor. V1ewpo1nt Ed•tor Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Editor, Sam! Mary's Editor Commentanes. letters and the tns1de Column present the v1ews of the~r authors Column space IS available to all members of the community and the free expression of varymg op1nions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
ITp.J<£ IT 1\-1~ FfNTAGJN D:ISNT Ll~ CXJR D~lQlS~ CUT~... 
LETTERS 
U.S. policy in Latin America is on target 
fJear Editor: lion to support him. To suggest violence against the polls. 
1 am writing in response to that Non~iga was the legitimate Mr. Buchholz's hypocrisy is Gregory Buchholz's artide in ruler of Panama is to support absurd. While he speaks his tlw Tuesday, .Jan. 30 Observer, t~e ~otion _of "mig_ht makes v!e~s on the glori~s _of tru~ ~a­glorifying Cuba as a valiant de-nght_ t~at ts so r~a?tly alleged c_mhsm and the evtl. ~mpenahs­fender of sodalisrn. to extst 111 U.S. pohc1es. tiC nature of the Umted States 
My primary disagreement is The intervention of Panama and its capitalist economy, he is with his, and a great many was also in no way illegal. The taking advantage of the politi­others', interpretation of the Panama Canal Treaty expressly cal rights and freedoms guar-Panama intervention. The allows U.S. military interven-anteed in our country and pro-charge that it was racist is t~on in ~anama for any re?-son. tec!ed .by "th~ mu~dero~s inane, especially when one lwen tf someone reJects regtme 111 Wash111gton. He IS stops to considm that Gen. Endara's authority before the being educated at a school sup-Colin Powell, the second in invasion, the Canal treaty over-ported primarily from dona-command of the U.S. military, rides both the UN and OAS tions made by people who make behind only the President, charters, as it is a direct a living "exploiting the work­happens to be an African agreement between the two na-ers." Therefore, he is voluntar­Ameriean. If the insinuation is tions involved. ily benefiting from this ex­"why invade Panama and not ~uba's condemnation _o_f the ploitation. South Africa," the answer is U.S. support for the legttimate Michael Gaffney simple. Panama's President leader of Panama shows its Zahm flail Endara was duly elected under lack of support for both Jan. 31, 1990 
rules establislwd by Non~iga, a dnmocraey. and its interna­margin of 2/3-3/4 according to tiona! obli_gations. . . neutral observnrs. IIf~ is not. as I also dtsputP thP p(('turP of Mr. Buchholz and others haw El Salvador painted by Mr. claimed. a "colonial adrninis-Buchholz. lin states that troops trator." We have no such per-are prnsnnt at El Salvadoran son to support in South Africa. elections to affect the outcome. 
This, of course, dispels Mr. In actuality they am tlwre to Buchholz's reason for railing defend the people from Cuban­the invasion imperialist. Wn backed rebels who declinnd the wern asked by tlw duly eleetnd invitation to participate, pre­President of Panama to put ferring to use violence to a down what, in ~~ITnet. was a mil-achieve their ends and itary roup. It was out obliga-threatening _to direct such 

LoQic, not visions, should_ sup~rt religion 
IJear Hditor: Not to say that these ktds are doesn t mean we have to a~~cPpt 
After rnading the letlPr to thn faking. I think they. rea_lly every crackpot revelatHlllal editor on Medjugorjf) I almost believe they are expenenc_mg s~~eme that comes. along as le­got sick. Listen up you citizens visions; Shirley probably really g1t1mate. Why _c<~n t we have a of Domer-land, Medjugorje is believes she ~as o~ee a reasonable rehgwn, one bas<:d about as plausible and real as Babylonian warnor. As lor our on common sense and. Iogtc. was the Oraele at Delphi in Blessed Mother's ~essage, rather t.hat upon the claims of days of Greek antiquity, thn si-"Peaee," don't you thmk that a few Eastern European ado­by! at Cuman for the Homans, the Mothnr of O_ur Savior r;ould lescents'? that spanish boy who claims to have come up_ ~tth someth111~ a _Oh. and for t?ose who wou~d bt) the reincarnation of the late little more ongmal and specific hke to know. I m one of those Dalai Lama, and even Shirley that that? poor immoral youths w!w saw MaeClaine who claims to have .lust because Christianity "The Last TemptatiOn of had numerous past lives and happens to be the religion Christ." Mirhael J. Barbosa channels for these former which has bnnn in vogue for the floly Cross Hall snlvns. past fifteen centuries or so ian. 29, 1990 
IT'S GOT &V/3RYTHIN6 7V IXJIA/ffH 
IT, /rf/K/3! I HtARlJITON MARX~ RAOIO Sf/CKAJ. lH/3 ON/..YMARRIW Pfi()Pf,8 (}()R Abe1Ui05!7UHAVIJ 71/rft {(:X 5CJf, ~ 7}(}5£; TRYING, 
JOYU395/..Y, 70MAX& 
LA..,_,._/ 848/ff/3/ 
Cab service halted due to no-shows 
Dear Hdit or: Mishawaka Cab is loeally 
After nweting with two re­owned by Mishawaka residents 
portPrs from The Obsnrver last and we an~ vnry proud of this 
week. I was disturbed to learn fact. Although our company is 
that students from Notre Damn much smaller in sizn than a 
fnel slightnd by Mishawaka Cab company such as Yellow Cab, 
Company. I am very supportive customer satisfaction is highly 
of Notre Dame and am a valued. Mishawaka Cab would 
tremendous Notre Dame fan. be pleased to do any business 
However, in the past it has not that was necessary with tlw 
been profitable, or possible, to Notrn Dame student body and 
service the Notre Damn ram­faculty; however. we cannot 
pus. provide a servicf' if tlw students 
The main reason it has not do not want it. Wlwn a cab 
been feasible to send cabs from driver makes a run out to tlw 
our company to the Notre Notre Danw campus and tlwrn 
Dame campus is the distance is no one tlwrP. lw must pay for 
involved. Although many Notre the gas which it took for that 
Dame students have called us run. Although if would not 
for a cab, the majority of tlw Sf'f'll1 to Jw a problf'lll if this 
time these students have not happPnPd only a fpw timPs, .it 
been at the pickup when a cab has bPcomf' tlw norm and this 
did arrive for tlw call. Tlw is a probiPm. 
problem is that many students 
call our cab company and then Thank you for nwPting with 
call another cab company as 1111~ and discussing tlw roiH'Prns 
well and take the first cab to of thn Notre DamP student 
arrive. Being located in body. Pleasn let me reiwrate my 
Mishawaka, it takes the aver­dnep affection for Notre I>anw 
age cab driver bntween 15 and and the students and faculty 
20 minutes to reach the Notrn associated with it. I hopn that 
Dame eampus. However, a cab there will be some way in the 
company such as Yellow Cab. future for Mishawaka Cab to 
which is located in South Bend. service the IH~eds or Notre 
and which has many more cars Dame. If tlw students were 
than our company does, is able willing to wait for our cabs. 
to reach the campus much then we would certainly bf' will­
more quickly. After receiving ing to pick them up at Notrn 
numerous calls and very few Dame. 
actual clients, Mishawaka Cab 
adopted the policy of not Jim Payton 
servicing the Notre Damn Co-Owner of Mishawaka Cab 
campus. Jan. 25. 1990 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The word love has by no means the same sense for both sexes, and this is one cause of the serious misunderstandings that divide them.' 
Simone de Beauvoir (1908-1986) 

---------~--------~--~----------------~---------------------------..--.~------------· 
Accent 

Henry V (center, Kenneth Branagh) attempts to inspire his tired and wounded troops in the movie "Henry V." Branagh has 
been compared to Lawrence Olivier for his excellent work in interpreting this Shakespearean play 
to young Olivier 
MATI GALLAGHER also acted in and directed a British. gles with the common soldiers French, come to love one an­accent writer screen version of Shakespeare's King Henry's army suffers of his army the night before other and agree to marry. 
"Henry V." While Olivier's 1944 from the rainy weather and bad they are to go into battle. An Branagh is one of the best ~nneth Branagh's version revolved around a glo­food as it marches across encounter with one of his sol­new actors and directors to en­
'Henry V" isn't for rious and triumphant king, northern France. An old drink­diers, who bitterly denounces ter into the film world in quite a 
everyone. Branagh portrays a much less­ing friend from Henry V's the English king's choice to in­while. Directing a cast of no­
This young British certain king who is faced with youth, Bardolf (Richard Briers), vade France, starts Henry V table British actors, Branagh tctor/din~etor's first his first test of leadership. is caught pillaging, despite the thinking about his role as has cleverly woven together major motion The plot centers around King's orders against pillage. leader and the burden he faces. these classical Shakespearean rture is a modern adaptation Henry V's invasion of f'rance in The king must choose between The next day, the two armies actors with new talent, such as 'Shakespeare's "Henry V." As the narly-15th Century. lie be­carrying out justice and saving clash in one of the better-filmed himself and Emma Thompson British-mad!~ movie. it does lievns he has a legal claim to his old friend. In the end, he battle scenes in recent movies. (Princess 'Katherine). kP some time to get used to the French throne, thereby jus­chooses to maintain the King Henry and his troops de­Branagh's adaptation makes e rharactNs' hnavily-ae-tifying the invasion. Thn first discipline of his army. Bardolf is feat the French in a confusing, Shakespeare's play more nted dialogLH~. OnrP this ad­place the king decides to lay executed. bloody series of scenes convey­accessible to modern ilnwnt is made. however. siege to is llarfleur. a castle in ing the reality of battle. audiences. Olivier's classic was IPnry V" ran truly bP seen as France. The British and French Following the battle, Henry V a wartime film, and as such, 
" of tlw best moviPs of 19H9. Following the capture of this armies encounter each other courts the King of France's was clearly meant to inspire a 3ranagh. who plays King castle, the son of the French and prepare for battle the fol­daughter, Katherine (Emma war-torn Britain. Branagh's 'nry V of l:ngland. is a rising king. the Dauphin (Michael lowing day at Agincourt. Henry Thompson). In a scene which is adaptation gives modern ilish star who has bPPn rom­Maloney), is determined to V's British are far outnumbered brilliantly acted, Katherine, audiences a new perspective on rPd to tlw young LaurencP crush the British invasion and and low in spirits. who speaks little English, and "Henry V," one many more vier. Olivier. like Branagh. gathers an army to pursue the King Henry, in disguise, min-King Henry, who speaks no people might identify with. 
'Father Dowling Mysteries' makes comeback on ABC 
-
'irst it --------­later snes a man follow her out peers. s the of the church. As any murder f'or the most part, the show's !(•list's mystery lover may have writers handln Dowling's reli­nand guessed, the dancer turns up gious lifestyle and duties with n the dead. Dowling takes it upon care. He never betrays a confi­
himself to prove the "suicide" dence made during confession k1~y·s. was, in fact, a murdnr. and keeps the faith in the face 
w. of today's corrupt society. Yet, c One of the most intriguing some fine-tuning and penance
Joe Bucolo 
owsa aspects of that storyline occurs on the writers' part may be in est To Be Continued. when Steve poses as a order. 
o the "mechanic" (professional card In one episode, Dowling ab­ISS of dealer,) a sort of holy roller. She solves a murderer of his sins me bashers with "Father manages to convince the just after the man admits to 1wling Mysteries." criminals she's a twisted dealer killing someone. This scene Father Dowling hears con­and infiltrates their organiza­may not sit well with many 
ssions on Thursdays at 8 p.m. tion. Then, they have no better people. Being that Dowling is a 1 ABC. Tom Boslny stars as than a snowball's chance in hell priest, the show must address 
te intnllignnt and witty priest of succeeding. such situations however, more . ;rho finds himself in the midst Another episode presents the realistic and carefully-planned f murder and mayhnm week mob's plan to murder the father scenes are required. 'ter wn1~ k. of a girl about to be married. In God is obviously on 
I lis sidekick is Sister the climactic scene, the bride "Dowling's" side. The show ran tephanin (Tracy Nelson,) and her father make their way several weeks last season on therwise known as Steve. With down the church's aisle as the NBC, but was cancelled. ABC )saries in hand, she adds a mob hit man. posing a~ a realized the show's quality and )uch of humor to the series as bishop, prepares to commit picked it up for this season. he needles her way into the murder. The "bride" lifts her Now, "Dowling" needs nothing ves of suspicious people. She veil. revealing to the viewers short of a miracle to survive Jld the good father make a she's really a police officer, and opposite 'The Cosby Show." 

1etter team than David and guns down the hit man. "Father Dowling Mysteries" is 4addie. Granted, the premise is a lit­an excellent program full of 
One episode pits f'r. Dowling tle hokey however, the show is exciting plotlines and lovable md Steve against a crooked great fun. Bosley portrays characters. With a little more • 'ambling ring located within a Dowling to perfection with oc­realism, "Dowling" will be the 
1trip bar. Dowling hears the casional glances to Heaven, model mystery show. So pull up :onfession of a stripper who signs of the cross, and well-di­a pew and watch the good ;ays she may be in danger. He rected arguments with his "Father." 


--~-~ I I 
page 12 ---------------------~T:.:,:he~O~b~se~rv..:..:e~r________________T..;..;u;;...;e;...;.s~day, February 6, 1990 
Missouri stays atop AP top 20 poll 
(AP)­
Missouri, Kansas and Arkansas held their spots atop The Associated Press college ·basketball poll on Monday and Connecticut continued its im­pressive three-week dimb. 
The Huskies (19-3), who are 
tied with Georgetown for first 
place in the Big East, moved 
from 13th to eighth this week 
aftPr debuting in the rankings 
two week ago at No. 20. 
Missouri and Kansas head 
for their rematch on next 
Tuesday with just one loss 
each. The Tigers (21-1) are No. 
1 for the third straight week 
aftPr knocking Kansas from its 
two-week hold on the top spot. 
They received 58 first-place 
votes and 1,617 points from the 
nationwide panel of sportswrit­
ers and broadcasters. 
Kansas (22-1) had the other 
seven first-place votes and 1,561 points after staying right behind Missouri in the Big Eight with two conference vic­tories. 
Arkansas (19-2), which won a wild overtime game at Texas on Sunday to stay unbeaten in the Southwest Conference, re­mained third with 1 ,438 points. 
Duke, Georgetown and Syracuse each improved one place from last week after Michigan fell from fourth to seventh after losing to Purdue. 
Duke ( 18-3), the leader in the Atlantic Coast Conference, beat Clemson and Notre Dame last week and had 1,364 points, 27 more than Georgetown. 
The lloyas (17 -2) won two conference games last week to stay even with Connecticut, while Syracuse ( 16-3) stayed one game behind them and re­ceived 1.281 points. 
.,. d
CIa55I le 5 
--....~ ,_.~ ··.a.··~ .........--~,_-... 
·--·-..~-·----..,_. • .._.._...~ ....-• .,..•_.._._.'""···-·-.-......,.-...............:~--..~·'-...'"",.,.,,..... ...-,_.........,....-~•....-....¥.:-._.;ono .. -,...~,_..,._.,.. __,,..-.• ...-The ~b;erv~~-~~~ept;~las~ifieds every business dc3.y from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
NOTICES J 
L-.......,­
Word Processmg Can return on disk Pick up and delivery 271-9114 
9UIIIIEJI J08S LOAS ·Boys~. W. ,..__ 
I Girll <Amp, ,...,. Top Salary. Rm/Bdllaundry, Travel Alowance. .._. 1ovw l<ids 1M have skill in one al the loiDwing activities: Aldwy. Ms & Crafts. Bueb811. ~. Blcyding. c~. Dance, Drama. Drums. Fencing. Gall. 
. Gynv\IISIIcs. HocMy. Horseback. 
Karate, l.acniUe. NUKe. Nurses, Pholography. Plano, Radio. Rocketry, Rep.. Sallbowding. Salting.~ Soocer. Tennil, Track, WSI. Weterski, Weights, Wood. Men call 01' write: Camp Wlnadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck. N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-5983. Women call or write: Camp Veoa. P.O. Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 
02332 (617) 934-6536. 
L..--­
BE YOUR OWN BOSSI Distributorships. Dealerships. Money making opportunities. Franchises. & Mail order, Detail, send $2.00 to: National Marketing Company, Box 3006, Boston. MA. 02130 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Daytona Beach 
Last Chance 
!
Sign-Ups 
BpmFeb7 LaFortune Thqater 
284-440i jmnller 
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING IS MOVING, AND AS OF 219/90 WILL BE LOCATED 808 EAST JEFFERSON BLVD. SOUTH BEND. IN 46617 237-1949 
*•SOPHOMORES** 
Slfn upa lor JPW Escape Ia Cllicqo start Moa., r•. I lat floor LaFortune • nut to tbe ......tlo. Hall (180) 
USED TEXTBOOKS 
AT A DISCOUNT! Pandora's Books 233·2342 corner of N.D. ave. and Howard 
MAIL BOXES ETC. Shippmg, Copies, Cards. Laser Quality For Papers, Reports, Resumes. Etc. 
277-MAIL -------, 
' LOST/FOUND I 
Lost: Men's Signet Ring Initials DTC Call David x4779 
LOST Pair of red wire-rimmed glasses Mon. in Huddle. If found please call X2963. 
• 
LOST 
Brown Leather Jacket taken from party at 304 Campus View. I really like nso please return it...or else I'll call crime stoppers. No questions asked #1804 (Brian) LOST?: If you have a navy & tan 
leather Liz Claiborne shoulder bag 
that doesn't belong to you. 
PLEASE return it! Contained 
checkbook, Sharp graphic 
calculator, and MANY other 
valuble items! REWARD-no 
questions asked! Please call 283­
4354 
LOST: If you have a navy &tan Liz 
Claiborne leather shoulder bag 
that doesn't belong to you. 
PLEASE return it! Contains many 
valuble items, including Sharp 
Graphic calculator, checkbook, 
etc! REWARD-no questions 
asked I PLEASE call 283-4354 
anytime! 
FOUND: In Library Auditorium--2 keys on a Seattle, Washington keychain. Room number 232. Call Ken x1773. 
L.:osf-6;6-91as~~~-;n·w~~t,;n9ton 
Hall at Sunday's Gospel Choir concert(2-4-90). PLEASE call x4907 if you found them. My academic career deoends on vou!!
I \
WANTED 
SUMMI::.HJOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer,Yr. round.AII Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write IJC. PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OR 
BIG SCREEN TV PLUS RAISE UP 
T0$1,400 IN JUST 10 DAYS!! 
Objective: Fundraiser 
Commitment: Minimal 
Money: Raise $1.400 
Cost: Zero Investment 
Campus organizations, clubs, frats, sororities call OCMC: 1 (800) 932-0528/1 (800) 950-8472, ext. 10. 
Wanted: Ride for 2 to Dennison 
University. ANY weekend. Call 
Molly, X4097 
EXCEPTIONAL SUMMER 
OPPORTUNITY--Be a counselor 
at CAMP WAYNE, Northeastern 
Pennsylvania, 2112 hours-NYC. 
Co-ed 6/23-8/21. Salary, travel 
allowance and room and board. 
Option-pre-camp work starting 
6110. Warm, fun family 
atmosphere. Specialists for all 
sports, waterfront, camping, 
computers, arts. Campus 
Interviews March 23, 1990 10-5. 
Write Box 823,lynbrook, N.Y. 
11563 or call 516-559-4562 
ROOMMATE WANTED: For next 
year off-campus. Nonsmoking 
female. Call Sue@ 284-5154. 
For Rent 
AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL 
YEAR -LARGE 4 BDRM. HOME. 
COMPLETELY FURNISHED. 
CLOSE TO SCHOOL CALL 234­
9364. 
House for 1990-91 school year. 
Furnished, secure home, 6 
bdrms., 2 baths. competitive rent. 
Close to ND. 234-6688. 
Michigan (16-4) bounced back from the loss to Purdue with a victory over Wisconsin and the Wolverines finished with 1,113 points, 40 more than Connecticut. 
UNLV (16-4) was ninth with 1,061 points and Purdue (16-3), which lost to Michigan State after beating Michigan, rounded out the Top Ten with 1,013 points. 
Louisiana State, 14th last week, led the Second Ten with 940 points and was followed by Illinois, Oklahoma, La Salle, Louisville, Georgia Tech, Minnesota, Oregon State, UCLA and Loyola Marymount. Xavier, Ohio started the final 
five  and  was  followed  by  
Arizona,  Michigan  State,  St.  
John's and Indiana.  

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Sailing Club will meet at 6:45 p.m. Tuesday in 204 O'Shag. Prospective members are invited. 
Joe Fredrick will be the guest on WVFI-AM 640 Sportstalk at 8 p.m. tonight. Join Jamey Rappis, Vie Lombardi and Kevin McCormick as they discuss Irish hoops and the football television contraet with NBC. Calls are welcome at 239-6400. 
Kevin McGee of Holy Cross has been eleeted the new Booksotre Basketball commissioner. 
Rowing Club will meet at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in 124 Niewland to discuss spring break trip. Bring eheckbooks. 
Students interested in playing ofT-campus lacrosse should call Mike at 287-3087 or John at 271-8309. 
Freshmen interested in being a student manager should attend a meeting at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the ACC football auditorium. Call 239-6482 for more information. 
Off-campus hockey has a game at 10:30 p.m. Tuesday. Call 271-8309 for more information. 
't~~ --·--.,...~..,.,_··.-·······-~, .....-.............. --..,.-...... 
FOR RENT; 4 Bedroom home very clean, w /range, refrigerator, fireplace, AC I 019 E. Madison -Near ND 
Student JUte at S2S)QI'Hdl'lft. -1 mo. 
call 232-5563 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
r9-29~~ SALE ) 
NO SPORTS wall calendar now only $5.00! Includes action photos &sporting event schedules. Mail order to: AND BOOKS,702 S.Michigan 
South Bend,46618 
Technics compact disc player with remote $165 x3443. 
Is It True...Jeeps for $44 through the Government? Call for facts! 1­708-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 
NEC 54" projection TV PERFECT FOR DORMS Call NO Dept. of Comm. &Theatre 
f39-705;1CKETS I 
I Need 4 GEORGIA TECH Tickets For FAMILY!$$$ Tom x3259 HELP! 
For Sale · 2 Tickets 
BILLY JOEL Indianapolis -Feb. 19 Face Value. Kim X4174. 
I NEED 4 Georgia-TECH TIX PLEASE CALL DON X1723 
NEED 4 MISSOU AND 4 GEORGIA TECH TICKETS! CALL MATI AT2265 
NEED 10 tix to Missouri game URGENT!II! call Dan 2274 
$NEED GA's for Georgia Tech$ call Jim x1646 
I NEED MISSOURI TICKETS! If you have four Missouri tickets, I'll buy them. I'd like at least two sets of two. Call Monica at 4823. 
NEED 3 GEORGIA TECH TICKETS. CALL KEN x4074. 
(PERSONALSI 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. legal, confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512 
Parrot Heads Forever !!I 
AVOID THE RIJ61H! AVOID THE WAITIN UNEI COME IN TO THE OBSERVER SOON TO ENTER YOUR VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS. 
In 1986 the Board of Trustees promised to divest but didn't. Thursday, Feb.8 they meet again. Join the AAN at 12:15 Thursday for a vigil and demonstration on the Fieldhouse Mall. Come because you hate Apartheid and Because you love Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
HARRY MEETS SALLY at the Alumni/Senior Club. Tonight! Yes, TUESDAY NIGHT!! 
Screamin' Specials: "No lakin' it" 
LOVE SONGS & ROSES The Classiest Valentine on Campus coming Feb. 10 from the Notre Dame Glee Club. 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY FLASH 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY FLASH 
RICHELLE ASCHENBRENNER TURNS 21 TODAY!!! (Stop by the camp. lab at the brare tomorrow btw 11 -3 to see if she has a hangover). Have fun with your boys tonight. Make us proud and rack up some points, but be sure to uphold the high moral standards of 334! Love Kelly, Kelly & Gina 
JIMMY· We hope you are feeling better. Get well in time to run for D.C. Mayor. Love, your chicks from Dylan's 
Only 3 more days until MIKE MURPHY'S birthday! I (Bet you are wondering who is putting these in!!) 
TANZ, I am very very sorry that I neglected to include you in Rm 244's favorite Campus View dudes. Actually, I wanted to single you out, and save the best for last. It was nothing personal, Tanz. You know that you are one of our favorites. Thanx a million for the Party tickets also. We would never forget you! 
Rm.244 Farley 
Mr. Megargee, Don't teach your kids to proofread. 
Your favorite DE 
JOHN WOLFRAM Have a Super Happy 22nd Birthday! 
THEY FORGOT US, DAVE. HAPPY 21ST! WE LOVE YOU, ELIZABETH & DEBORAH. 
HEAVENS TO BETSY BOO FRANK-A-LIN IS 22! 
PHYSICIAN AND WIFE CAN PROVIDE SECURE. STABLE. LOVING HOME FOR YOUR BABY. EXPERIENCED PARENTS OF ADOPTED 2 YEAR OLD. LEGAL, PRIVATE ADOPTION. CALL COLLECT 513-891-1583. 
Michelle, you looked great at C.J.'s Saturday night! Kevin 
hiag 
And... SEAN BROWN turns 21 on Feb. 8th!!! II HAPPY B'DAY! 
••••••••wiNTERFEST'''• TOURNAMENTS, BENDIX WOODS, CLUB TUESDAY. ICE SKATING, ALL-NIGHT MOVIES 
••••••••wiNTERFEST'... 
FEBRUARY 4-10......... 
Hurricanes and Cypress Trees! (Dead ones) Catherine's 21! Happy Birthday, and don't forget that I care! 
Love, A Friend. 
p.s. Don't stop smiling, and remember that you're awesome! 
BROTHER MICHAEL, The students are all over the PLACE!!! And there is NAH-thing the staff can do!!! 
With affection. Flanner Staff 
CLUB 23 
Offering our specialty MIDDLE EAST CUISINE Open tor dinner 5 -11 pm Monday to Saturday 
THE CLUB 23 
Featuring up & coming bands. Don't miss our evening specials. 234-3541 'MO' 
BEST SPRING BREAK TRIPS! Bahamas cruise + 6 days $279, includes meals, parties, accomodations, some rooms have kitchens, leaves from Ft. Lauderdale. Cancun B days $399, 6 days Jamaica $369. Spring Break Travel 1-800-638-6786. 
NO-Missouri basketball 
Coming soon to an arena near you 
Don't forget 
Friday Lunch Noon-2 at Alumni Sr. Club 
Don't forget 
St. Jude, please hear my prayer. 
DESIGN COMPETITION Design the cover for the Junior Class Scrapbook and WIN $30. Submit entries to Jr. class office by Friday . 
BETSY SEGGERSON You're the best. Happy 22nd Birthday to my favorite cousin. Thank you for being the perfect role model and super soul sister all these years. With love. Kathy 
Flinchstone, Congratulations on your nominationII hope that everything works out for you 
(even though you're mean to mean!). Remember, I care about you. 
Love, 
Christina 
LOVE SONGS & ROSES The Classiest Valentine on Campus Coming Feb. 10 from the Notre Dame Glee Club. 
Check out the New Price on Club Cup N~e.............................. 
BTICG slams the 
purple people' Great teamwork gals! Not bad for grad students I 
SMC·ND SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON(MAY 23-JUNE22) ROME(JUNE 17-JUL Y16) TRAVEL IN IRE., SCOT. FR.. SWITZ.. GER.. ENG.. & ITALY COURSES IN ART. BIO.. BUEC, HIST., IT., SOC. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FEB. 19 AT 7:30P.M. CARROLL HALL(SMC). PREVIOUS STUDENTS, TEACHERS.& PIZZA. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL DR. BLACK AT 284-4460 OR 272-3726. 
Joey, 
I love you. 
Kelley 
HELLO SUNSHINE. MARY AND. 
OF COURSE. VINNIE!!!!!!!! 
UUH-HIYA & GOOD-BY A FROM 
YOUR PAL MOLLY 
PHILIP KRAKER: 
RIDDLE ME THIS: 
Why does a man ask me to kill him 
because he's dying, when he's not 
dying but he asks me to kill him? 
I don't know. but I do know that "You are my No. 1 GUY I" Love, Ms. Money Penny 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM PRESENTS: CHARLES WILBER Professor of Economics 
responding to "What Do The Bishops Know About Economics?" An analysis of the Bishops' Letter on the Economy 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8 7 P.M. 
KC, YENTIL AND RJ--UUHHIYA 
FROM YOUR INVISIBLE PAL 
MOLLY! 
Those interested in playing 
GOTCHA lhe survival game, can 
sign up at dinner ton1ght and 
tomorrow in the dining hall. 
To "The Gang" & everyone else who made my 22nd Bday so great: Thank you !!! You guys are the best! Love ya, Monica 
LAURA MICHAELS we know you want a personal about last Friday night. Let's let those poor, drunken 
boys in THAT dorm get some sleep this weekend. 
OJ Jazzy Zaf. (The Stain Master) 
YOUR "COMING" UP IN THE WORLD! 
Taz. Fast. Snuffle and Hollywood. 
Coming Soon! 
Grace Hall's COFFEEHOUSE 
Where anything can happenII 
FEBRUARY23 

Tuesday, Februa~~6~·~1~9~9~0~------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r________________________________________________p_a~g~e_1__3 

The Observer I AP Photo 
Heavyweight champion Mike Tyson spars with former heavyweight champ Greg Pace at Tokyo's Korakuen Hall on Saturday. Tyson will fight James "Buster" Douglas on February 11. 
Pacers' slide worrisome for Walsh 
Sunday -Thursday 7:00pm-l :OOam Friday and Saturday 7:00pm-2:00am 
UDENT 
ADWOR~ 
World football league comes closer to reality 
NEW YORK (AP) -The NFL's new international ven­ture, a year in the planning stage, is about to move a step closer to reality with a two­year contract from ABC that could bring it close to $30 mil­lion. 
The agreement, which sources said will pay the league , $12-15 million a year, will be announced today with perhaps more to come, both overseas and in the United States. 
The league, now dubbed the World League of American Football after two name changes, will start play in the spring of 1991 with 12 fran­chises-six in the United States, four in Europe and one each in Mexico and Canada. 
New York is the only American city set, with the in­ternational sites expected to be London, Frankfurt, Milan, Barcelona, Montreal and Mexico City. 
It is totally distinct from the International League of American Football, which will debut in Europe this spring with American coaches but a cast of players composed largely of Europeans who have been playing in already orga­nized leagues. 
The ABC contract is only the first step in the television ar­rangements for the league, which is headed by Tex Schramm, former president of the Dallas Cowboys and is overseen by a board of NFL owners. But league officials in­sist that it will be a distinct en­tity, competing in some in­stances for coaches and per­haps players. 
In addition to the ABC con­tract, the WLAF hopes to make­deals with cable and local tele­vision in the United States and separate agreements with European outlets. ABC is ex­pected to carry a game of the week with local or cable sta­tions televising away games back to home markets. 
The WLAF will play a 10­game spring schedule after running its own draft-both of free agents and NFL players who may want to get extra time in a spring league. It will also seek coaches, perhaps young assistants seeking to establish 
themselves in top jobs. 
"It would be perfect for young guys who want to prove themselves as head coaches," Joe Bailey, Schramm's top as­sistant, said Monday. 
The WLAF also hopes to play in smaller stadiums, seating 35,000-40,000 so as not to televise thousands of empty seats, one problem endured by the USFL, which folded in 1986 after three spring seasons. That could be a problem in New York, for example, where by far the best football facility is 76,000-seat Giants Stadium. 
Bailey said, however, that he had gone recently to a soccer game that drew 35,000 to London's Wembley Stadium, which holds nearly 100,000. 
"It was a good fit and it didn't look empty," Bailey said. "All things being equal, we'd prefer medium-sized stadiums, but we're not ruling anything out just because of its size." 
INDIANAPOLIS {AP) -The ''I'm not content with the way Indiana Pacers, surprise lead­th<:J team is playing," he said. "I ers in the first month of the don't see them putting together NBA season, are sliding rapidly a consistent game. We're and club president Donnie nowhere near the team we were Walsh says a trade may be the first 30 games. I expected a needed to apply the brakes. downturn, but not this long. 
The Pacers {23-23) take a "It's like our team is dead out five-game ·losing streak into there, there's no life, no crisp­Tuesday night's game at ness. I can't fault the effort, Denver. Indiana, which once but there's nothing there." was 10 games above the .500 Walsh, who put together the mark, has lost eight of its last club as general manager, has nine games, 14 in the last 18 difficulty pinpointing a reason and nine straight on the road. for the slide which has the 
Walsh was in New York to Pacers perilously close to the witness the Pacers' 112-98 loss ninth spot in the Eastern 
283-BLUE 
2 5 8 3 
The Pacers are currently sev­enth, a half-game ahead of Atlanta and just 2 1/2 games in front of Cleveland. The top eight teams in the conference qualify for the playoffs and the others go into the lottery. 
The NBA trading deadline is Feb. 22 and Walsh says he's always on the lookout to make the team better. 
"I have to think about it now," said Walsh about a trade. "You have to evaluate your team all the time." 
Indiana has been outre­bounded in nine consecutive 
Call 
Student Escort Service Anywhere on Campus 7 Nights a Week .. 

, , 
The Observer Tuesday, February 6, 1990
page 14 
The 'Mailman': unstoppable phenomenon for Utah Jazz 
SALT LAKE CITY (APJ -Five years ago, when rookie Karl Malone threw the ball from 24 feet, his teammates would flinch. Now, when the Utah Jazz power forward shoots from the 3-point line, there is more than hope guiding the ball. 
Indeed, the Mailman delivers. 
Not only did the former Louisiana Tech star become one of the NBA's premier mus­clemen, he conquered the foul line and added distance to his repertoire. 
Next Sunday, he will return to the All-Star Game for the third straight year. 
"The first couple of years, when he took one, everybody would kind of cringe," Coach .Jerry Sloan said of Malone's 3­point shooting. "Now we don't feel bad at all. He looks like he's right on line and it's a pretty good shot." 
Malone is the main reason Utah is driving for its second straight 50-win season and Midwestern Division title. The .Jazz' emnrgencP into the NBA's upper eehPion coinr.ides pre­dstdy with Malone's move into thP IPagw~·s Plite. 
"Certainly, he's the baekbone of our !Pam." said fornwr coaeh Frank LayciPn. "We pride ourstdvPs on having gn~at ca­maraderie and nvnrybody knowing what their roll~ is. llis roll~ is to gt~t rebounds and scorP points. which obviously isn't the easiest thing in the world to do." 
Malone, who became Louisiana Tm~h's No. 3 all-time scorer in just three seasons, 
Contract 
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame will continue to be a member of the CFA, but will not participate in the ABC­TV pact. 
"CFA members make a deci­sion for themselves as to the television package," university Executive Vice President Father 
E. William Beauchamp said. "That's the right of every school in the CFA. Discussion with NBC began once it became dear what was in the ABC package." 
Beauchamp is on the Board of Directors of the CFA. 
All parties involved stressed that the current contract Notre Dame has with the CFA will be fulfilled, and that the CFA was aware that Notre Dame would not decide on the television deal until it saw the contract. 
"We did not interfere with an 
.c. 
existing relationship," Ebersol said. 
"I don't know what the im­pact of this will be on the CFA," Beauchamp said. "Notre Dame is an important facet of their TV, so I'm sure they'd prefer Notre Dame in the package." 
The terms of the agreement
.. 
were not disclosed. The bulk of the funds from the deal will go towards providing financial aid to students demonstrating need. 
"Any additional revenue that might be generated from this contract will be for financial assistance to students," Beauchamp said, "Quality stu­dents who show need. The money will not go directly to has always made the game look easy. Combining the strength, speed and soft hands of a top­flight tight end, Malone, the league's No. 2 scorer behind Chicago's Michael Jordan, ern­ploys a whole-court offense. 
It's not unusual to see him grab a rebound, snap an outlet pass to point guard John Stockton, and take a return pass that turns him, at full stride, into one of the most ir­resistible forces in the game. 
When the Jazz work for a shot inside, more often than not it's Malone who muscles into the lane for a score, some­times carrying a pair of defend­ers with him. 
"When he got the ball you didn't defend him," said Auburn coach Tommy Joe Eagles, an assistant at Louisiana Tech during Malone's tenure and still a close friend. "You either fouled him, or he scored." 
With Malone's improvement at the foul line, opponents can ill-afford to trade free throws for field goals. In his first year with the .Jazz, Malonr. shot only 48 percent from the foul line. Now he tops 70 percent. 
"That's one of many areas." Sloan said. "llis free-throw shooting is probably the most glaring improvement he's madn. We talked to him about it wlwn he first came here, only to offer subtle little hints. But he deserves the credit for all that he has done." 
Another reason Malone has been a hit in the NBA is Stockton, who, like Malone, comes from a small school. At 
that includes traditional oppo­other schools, but the competi­nents Michigan, Michigan State, tion for college sports on tele­Pitt and Penn State, as well as vision is intense. 
Indiana and Tennessee. "The popularity of collegeNBC plans to televise all of athletics is apparent," Rosen­the 30 possible games. thal said. "This is fan demand "After 25 years of seeking in what we feel is an excellent Notre Dame in a program I'm event. This is a communication working with," Ebersol said, device. What other networks 
"I'm not looking for an 'out' and schools do is up to them." clause-J'm looking for more "We are pleased at this con­'in' clauses." tinuation of what we feel is a 
Will this deal encourage simi­special relationship," Ebersol 
lar deals with other schools? said. "We are looking forward NBC is taking a wait-and-see to seeing it grow over the next 
attitude on dealing with any five years." 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Gonzaga, in Spokane, Wash., Stockton averaged 20.9 points a game his senior year and be­came the first Gonzaga player to score 1,000 points with 500 or more assists. 
Stockton was drafted by the Jazz in 1984, but it wasn't until a year later, when Malone was picked 13th in the first round, that the Malone-Stockton bond was sealed. Just as Malone ex­panded the definition of power forward, the slight Stockton has become the most prolific assist man in the league and will start for the West on Sunday. 
Last year, Stockton set the NBA single-season assist mark with 1,128, breaking Detroit's Isiah Thomas' record of 1,123. 
"I think we help each other out," Malone says, dead-pan­ning the understatement. 
"I think they complement each other very well and that's what should happen," Sloan said. "Malone helps Stockton in certain areas and Stockton helps Malone in other areas." 
the relationship is nothing new to Malone. At Louisiana Tech, Wayne Smith was Malone's Stockton. setting the school record for earner assists in 1985. 
"That's kind of how Karl and I wen~." Smith said. "It's sweet to see it happen. Our talents complemented eaeh other. 
"Everybody (at Louisiana Tech) had the same attitude that the Utah team has now. lie wants to win the division and he wants to get to the NBA fi­nals. Team things seem to take precedence over individual things to him," Smith said. Association before turning to 
At Louisiana Tech, Malone high school coaching. and Smith took the team to the "My whole dream was to get NCAA's Sweet 16 and had vi-there myself," Smith said. "The sions of reaching the Final only way I can be there now is Four. But Oklahoma's Wayman through Karl. That's my whole Tisdale ended that idea with a shot now, being that I didn't shot at the buzzer that the make it." folks in Ruston still can see Malone's finest NBA hour rolling repeatedly around the came at last year's All-Star rim. Game, where he scored 28 
Like Malone, Smith had hopes points in the West's victory. of an NBA career. But the best This year, the fans did not vote he could manage was a year in him to the starting roster, a the Continental Basketball snub he admits hurt him deeply.
-
The Observer 1AP Photo Karl Malone, the "Mailman," has been the cornerstone of the Utah Jazz since his career began. The Jazz' ascent has echoed Malone's. 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Advertising Representatives 
For information, please contact Molly Killen at 239-6900 or 283-3631 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN • 
• 
• EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
•
• 
A PROGRAM ARRANGED BY 
•
DEAN ANTHONY N. MICHEL AND THE DEPARTMENTS OF• THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
• 
•
.•
' 
•
7:00 P.M.J TUESDAYJ FEBRUARY 6J 1990 
• 
356 FITZPATRICK HALL OF ENGINEERING 
the athletic department." Another important aspect of the deal is a consistent starting 
•
time. Ilome games will begin at 
1:30 p.m. Eastern time begin­ning in 1991. The deal calls for 
• FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
NBC to televise six games per year for five years, a schedule 
.. 
'' I ---~------------------------------------------.-.-.-.-.------------------------------------------~ 
\ '\'. 
Tuesday, February 6, 1990 The Observer page 15 
Darryl Strawberry's bout with addiction long and lonely 
NEW YORK (AP) -It is a foreboding place, a stately white building with wrought iron gates and heavy doors. 
The lobby of the converted brownstone on the fashionable upper East Side of Manhattan has a Victorian look about it, with plush furnishings including a couch you sink into. Once a handsome private residence, it is now a place for putting lives back together. 
For the next month, the Smithers Alcohol and Drug Treatment Center will be home to Darryl Strawberry of the New York Mets. 
Strawberry began a month­long alcohol rehabilitation pro­gram at Smithers over the weekend, becoming just another patient in the 44-bed facility. That means playing by Smithers' strict rules: Up at 7 a.m., make your own bed, do your own laundry. lights out at 11 p.m.. lectures and counseling in bntwenn. No newspapers, limited television viewing and phone contact with just a few selected friends. 
The effort is to deal with the demons, to put the patient back in control of his life. It is no small task. 
Visitors are permitted just once a week, on Sunday. That was Strawberry's first full da:y at Smithers and his lone visitor was Dr. Allan Laos, the Mets team psychiatrist who spent three days with the outfielder in Los Angeles last week and brought him back to the reha­bilitation facility. 
Strawberry was admitted to the center on Saturday, accom­panied by Lans and Jay Horwitz, the Mets' public rela­tions director. "He was down­cast and scared," Horwitz said of the outfielder. "He was frightened because he didn't know what was going to hap­pen to him for the next month." 
Lans, reached by phone, de­clined to discuss Strawberry's 
situation until some time has 
passed. 
As Strawberry's alcohol re­hab began, authorities in Los Angeles put on hold possible misdemeanor charges against 
him following his arrest Jan. 26 in a domestic dispute with his wife, Lisa. Martin Vranicar, su­pervising deputy of the city at­torney's office, told the Mets the case would be addressed when Strawberry's treatment is completed. Originally, the Strawberrys were scheduled to meet with a hearing officer Friday in Los Angeles as part of the investigation. 
Strawberry is the fourth Mets player to enter the Smithers program. The most prominent before him was pitcher Dwight Gooden, who spent a month there in 1987 after testing posi­tive for cocaine. Catcher Macky Sasser and minor league pitcher Reggie Dobie also spent time at Smithers for alcohol rehab. New York pitcher Jeff Musselman underwent alcohol rehab while with the Toronto Blue Jays. 
On Monday, Gooden visited a Brooklyn public school with New York City schools chancel­lor Joseph Fernandez. When a student asked if he had any message for Strawberry, he said, "I would just tell him I love him and I'm behind him. I'm his friend and I'll do any­thing to help him." 
Gooden tried to describe the program he went through. 
"Smithers isn't just about drugs and alcohol," he said. "Actually, about 40 percent of the time you spend talking about life, learning about your­self, about how to be stronger as a human being." 
The toughest time for his teammate, Gooden said, will not be the 28 days Strawberry spends at Smithers, but the time after that. 
"Inside is easy," Gooden said. "Everybody is there to help you. They teach you how to deal with things, how to express your emotions, how to not be afraid to speak your mind. 
"But then the door opens up and it's up to you to do it. That's when he has to decide if he can handle the challenge ­the moment he's on his own." 
Gooden's rehab lasted through the beginning of the 1987 season. He was brought back slowly, pitching several short stints for the Mets' minor league affiliate at Tidewater with media access limited to controlled news conferences. Questions about his stay at Smithers were discouraged by Mets officials, but that gradu­ally changed. And now Gooden talks freely about his stay, per­haps with the thought it may help others. 
U.S.A. to compete in World Cup for first time in 40 years 
MIAMI (AP)-Thn U.S. soc­Among them was 20-year-old 
think we've made some "I think we played well. We're played two quality teams. If we 
cer tnam lost a tournamnnt and goalkeeper Kasey Keller, who progress toward that." a little bit happy, although we can continue to have this typefound a goalkeeper as it began limited Colombia to one goal­The U.S. looked ragged in its don't like taking fourth," mid­
of opponent, we can only get
competition in preparation for on an indirect free kick-in his 2-0 loss Friday to Costa Rica. fielder John Harkes said. "It better. Every time you play at its first World Cup appearance first appearance in interna­
But both the offense and de­was a pretty even game, when the highest level, that makes 
in 40 years. tional competition. fense improved as the you think about it. To go you a better player."The Americans finished last "Kasey Keller is an immense Americans played Colombia to through the penalty kicks, it The two-day tournament,
in the four-team Marlboro Cup talent," Ganster said. "I know a 1-1 tie, then lost on penalty could go either way." 
won by Uruguay, drew a totalof Miami, losing first to Costa Kasey can play in this league, kicks. 
Forward Eric Wynalda, mak­of 40,623 fans. Miami is among Hica and then to Colombia in and so do others." While Colombia was without ing his debut in international sites under consideration to Sunday's consolation game at Ganster used 21 players in the five starters, Sunday's game competition, played a key role 
host the 1994 World Cup. 
the Orange Bowl. two games. Only five players was encouraging nonetheless. in a resurgent U.S. attack The U.S. team will reassemble "You always want more, but started both. London bookmakers list the Sunday and scored the team's Saturday in Hamilton, Bermuda we certainly had progress," "You want to see improve­Colombians' odds of winning only goal. 
and play Bermuda on Feb. 13. 
U.S. coach Bob Ganster said. "I ment from game to game," the World Cup at 40-1. The U.S. "Obviously we're not in that The World Cup begins June 8 in 
found some more players that Ganster said. "You want to is 1,500-1 and hasn't beaten high spirits. We just lost two Italy. can play." slowly lind your nucleus, and I Colombia since 1984. games," he said. "But we 

ICEBERG DEaAJES 
This Wednesday, Feb. 7 
Get out and support your team 
A Debate on Drug Legalization will be held at a dorm near you. 

The Observer Tuesday, February 6, 1990
page 16 
Fencers 
continued from page 20 
oeen the perfect chance for us to get a benchmark of our progress so far." 
One might go as far as to say that those who truly suffered from the cancellation were Irish opponents in a meet held at Tri-State University in Detroit the following day. 
"Our players fenced pretty angrily that day," said DeCicco. "Maybe they felt disappointed of missing out on Saturday. Or maybe they were just mad at me for having them at the gym by 6:30 a.m. on Sunday. Whatever it was, the results were simply astounding." 
Astounding might be a gross 
Leszek 
continued from page 20 
heavy eompetition with another Canadian phenom for the fifth spot on the team, the eutofT for participation in galas like the 
Olympics  and  World  
Championships.  
This  guy  goes  to  Notre  

Dame? This chap, who makes Budapest the destination of his road trip instead of Ann Arbor, who uses a sword instead of a football, who might be known better by a fan in Warsaw than by a domer in Grace? 
"It's something I guess I'm used to," says Nowosielski. "Fencing isn't that well known in Canada, either. Here it's football, there it's hockey. It's just something I'm used to, no exposure. Fencing isn't some­thing people floek to to watch. I'd love it to be different, but I can't see it happening." 
Based on Nowosielski's atti­tude, one would never guess that fencing plays seeond fiddle to anything. IIe has trained and competed with unfailing disci­pline for almost ten years, and most recently he took a leave of absence during the fall 1989 snmester to train for the Canadian team. 
While in Ontario, Nowosielski trained with Marian Zakrzewski, his coaeh for seven years, at Lns Spadassins feneing club. From mid­September to mid-November, Nowosielski concentrated on conditioning for five days a week. Then. in November and I>eeember, he participated in understatement. The men's foil. sabre and epee teams, along with the women's foil squad racked up a combined victory total of 152-15, outdueling opponents by a 10-1 margin, and winning all sixteen matches against four schools. 
After wresting wins from Eastern Michigan University, host Tri-State, the University of Michigan and the University of Detroit, the Irish remained undefeated on the season. 
Men's foil boasted four fencers in the Whitewasher's Club, as Colin Gumbs (7-0), Derek Holeman (6-0), Jeff Piper (7-0) and Noel Young were all perfect on the day. 
"Colin finished the weekend 
quite nicely, as evidenced by his 
record," stated DeCicco. "lie's 
individual competitions every weekend, including a two-week stint overseas where he fenced in France and Bulgaria. He never relented in the condi­tioning program. 
Why is he subjecting himself to such vigorous training? Ultimately, it's the Olympics, but it's also the World Championships. No, there is no professional fencing league, no fencing "skins game". and not many positions open in fencing advertising. But the drive ex­ists. 
"I can't do this for the rest of my life," says Nowosielski. "There's no pro fencing or any­thing. It's just personal satis­faction always."· 
The satisfaetion comes from competition. and it comes most acutely from winning. Nowosielski has seen plenty of both. 
From 1985-88 he was a member of the Canadian Junior World Team, and immediately after he passed the maximum age he entered the open Canadian team. In America, he has been an All-American at Notre Dame both years. Prior to losing one bout this year, Nowosielski sported an un­blemished 48-0 record in the non-NCAA tournament cireuit. 
llis fencing ability has led him all around the globe, in­cluding France, Spain, Italy, Austria, Bulgaria, Germany, Hungary, Holland, Brazil, Mexieo, Guadelupe, and the 
U.S. Nowosielski is fluent in Polish, French, and English. 
"I like getting to meet the fencing eommunity, whether in Canada or in the States," says just another example of the kind of depth we have on the 
team." 
The top record on the day belonged to sophomore Tara Kelly. The 5-2 Texan battled her way to an unblemished 13­0 mark in women's foil. Teammates Heidi Piper (9-0), Lynn Kadri (3-0) and senior captain Anne Barreda (3-0) were also spotless on the day as the women continued to roll over all takers. 
"Anne Barreda right now is fencing as well as she ever has," said DeCicco. "She's both tough and very aggressive, with the right footwork and discipline combination. It's certainly a credit to (assistant coaches( Yves Auriol and Mike Marx. I don't ever remember 
Nowosielski. "Even on the school level, everyone knows each other. A fringe benefit is that you build great friendships and you get to travel all over. the world. 
"I like eompeting because it's all within yourself. When some­thing's going wrong, or when your opponent is doing some­thing, you have to stop and fig­ure out what's wrong. It's an ideal mix between the physical and mental that I really enjoy." . 
Head Coach Mike DeCicco recognizes the unique advan­tages that Nowosielski adds to the team. 
"He adds a breath of experi­ence that you normally don't buy," says DeCiceo. "His being from Canada and having par­ticipated in national and inter­national competition enables me to use him as a gauge, or a yardstick, for the rest of the team, so that his teammates can see where they are. 
"Since we're not in the posi­tion to send our top fencers all over the world, we use the fil­tering-down effect, and Leszek is as good a gauge as any­body." 
Nowosielski's goals are plain and simple: making the World Championship Team, winning the NCAA's, making the top 32 at a World Cup competition, and making it to the 1992 Canadian Olympic team. Can he do all this? 
"Leszek is an outstanding fencer," says DeCicco. "In my opinion, along with other coaches in the country, he's one of the top two or three sabre­men in the country. I'm preju­
ieed, but I think Leszek can having a women's captain who's as in-charge as she is. She really knows the team personnel inside out." 
Men's epee continued to roll as well, behind the undefeated finishes of sophomores Jubba Beshin (6-0) and David "Dac" Calderhead (5-0). 
"Dac is a very loose, easy­going person," said DeCicco of the sophomore from Wandsford, England. "Fifteen minutes before his first match on Sunday, he was nowhere to be found. 
"I had (epee captain) go look for him. Do you know where he was? Be was off sleeping in some corner, still tired from getting up so early. Then he refreshes himself and goes out to win his first two bouts 5-0 
beat all of them. I think he 
knows he can." 
Nowosielski's confidence of 
whieh DeCieeo speaks was not 
always strong. At the 1988 
Junior World Championships, 
Nowosielski missed qualifying 
for the 1988 Canadian Olympic 
team by one touch, losing 5-4 
to a fencer from Korea. He al­
most quit feneing. 
Luckily, he didn't, mainly be­cause he liked eompetition too much to give it up. Now he is on a drive to be the number one fencer, both in the U.S. and abroad. 
"I see Leszek Nowosielski hopefully winning back-to-baek gold medals. being a catalyst for the team to win a gold medal, and making the Olympic team for Spain in 1992," says DeCieco. "Hopefully all this will come to fruition from all the work that he's put in." 
And Nowosielski? 
"Like any Canadian kid. I started out in hockey when I was young and my parents wanted to get me out of it, so they put me into fencing. I hated it for the first year, but my dad pushed me to stay in it. 
"I went to my first competi­tion when I was 11 years old. 

Real Estate AnalystProgram 
LET OUR 2·YEAR PROGRAM BE A PRELUDE TO YOUR MBA! Want some rock-solid commercial real estate 
experience before pursuing your MBA? Then consider this great opportunity with THE PRUDENTIAL. the nation's largest real estate investor. 
We're looking for energetic, ambitious B.A.'s and B.S.'s (who are planning to apply to top business schools in 1992) for a challenging 2·year assignment in our Real Estate Analyst Program. To qualify, you need a B + or better undergraduate GPA and a strong mathematical aptitude. An intensive training program will help prepare you for real estate modeling and financial evaluation assignments. 
This program provides outstanding on-the-job training. experience, and exposure to real estate markets and top investment professionals. The Prudential offers attractive starting salaries with comprehensive benefits. 
To apply, send your resume and a copy of your college transcript, by February 9, 1990 to: 
THE PRUDENTIAL REALTY GROUP Indianapolis Realty Group Office 9200 Keystone Crossing Suite 730 Indianapolis, IN 46240 Attn: Analyst Program 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
The Prudential Realty Group 
ThePrudentlal ~ 
and 5-l. He's just very, very cool and confident. It comes from working hard all week in practice." 
Men's sabre had three among the ranks of the unbeaten, with Chris Baguer (6-0), Dave Kirby (5-0) and James Taliaferro (5-0) ali among the untouchables that day. 
"James has been an extremely welcome addition to this year's team," stated DeCicco, referring to Taliaferro. "lie's really been a solid reinforcement to the sabre squad." 
Next on the agenda as the Irish chase another national championship will be this weekend's competition at Cleveland State University. 
• 
.... . 
-----..;"''~­
~~,\-~~· .f'" 
Junior Leszek Nowosielski's goal is a spot at the 1992 Olympics. 
Photo courtesy ND Sports Info 
and I lovnd it" continues Nowosielski. "I had sueh a good time that I knew I wanted to keep doing it. and even now that's what I enjoy doing the most." 
----------------~ ~-­
Tuesday, February 6, 1990 The Observer page 17 
Irish Swimming teams both win one, lose one 
Notre Dame wins easily over Duke, falls to nationally ranked NC State 
By JANICE ARCHER Tom Whowell and Jim Byrne "I am very proud of the way Joss of the year, 168-123, de­Sports Writer placed second and third, re­we raced," said Welsh. "We are spite winning six of the twelve spectively, giving the Irish a not a rested team, and did very individual events. Williams The Notre Dame's men and significant boost in the score. well against tough competi­notched three victories, in the 
women's swim teams finished The women's team easily tion." 200 and 100 yard butterfly, and their intense dual meet schedule overpowered Duke, 159-83. In The men's team lost for only the 400 individual medley. Steel last weekend against two the eleven events of the meet, the second time this season, finished first in the 200 formidable opponents. The Notre Dame swimmers took falling to the Wolfpack , 136-freestyle, and Van Patten again squads traveled east and de­first place in ten of the races. 99. Despite the loss, many im­captured the 50 freestyle, im­feated Duke University, but fell "Our women's team was pressive performances were proving her time to 25.24. 
to nationally ranked North faster up front," head coach turned in, especially Jim "It's an exciting sign of how Carolina State in their first Tim Welsh said. "It was signifi­Birmingham's time of 47.63 in our program is developing," meetings with either team. cant that we had some season's the 100 freestyle. John Godfrey Welsh said of the split events. 
Friday night's meet with the best times." won the 200 backstroke "The women are coming to­Blue Devils turned out to be a The domination of the women (1 :56.69), and Penn took the gether as a tough, competitive close contest for the men's over their opponents was clear 200 breaststroke for the sec­and aggressive team." 
team, who won 135-106. The in the first three individual ond day in a row by the time of The teams continue to train Irish lost the opening race, but events. Irish swimmers won 2:10.49. The squad fell behind hard for the upcoming MCC led throughout most of the first and second places in the at first, but came back to win Championships, which will be 
meet. At the 50-yard freestyle, 1000, 200, and 50-yard four straight events in the sec­held at Rolfs Aquatic Center. the score was tied, but the freestyle races. Kim Steel, ond half of the meet. "This past weekend's combi­squad managed to retake the Tanya Williams and Christy "This shows an aggressive, nation of meets helped us 
The Observer I David Lee 
lead. Van Patten each captured two competitive effort," said Welsh. establish where our program 
Both the men's and women's swim 
Only until the 200-yard victories _in the winning effort. "I was very pleased." is," noted Welsh. "The trip was 
teams went 1-1 over the weekend. 
breaststroke, the next to last "Those first events estab­The women took their fifth a wonderful experience." event. did the Irish pull ahead lished the fact that it would be for good. Captain Tom Penn a good night for the Irish," captured first place with a time Welsh said. "Both teams swam of 2:09.73 to give the team the with a great deal of spirit, and final needed push. Penn also Duke was a wonderful host. took the 200 individual medley Cmnpeting with them was a (1 :56.67). positive experience." 
Another turning point in The two squads did not fare Friday's meet came in the 200 as well against North Carolina backstroke. Freshman John State. Saturday's meet began at Godfrey won the event with a 1 :00, forcing the teams to swim time of 1:56.67, and teammates two meP.ts in 18 hours. 
Buckle Up For Spring Break '90 
~NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~~@.~ ND-SMC ~ 
The Observer I David Lee 
~ ®~ra®~~~® STUDENTS ~ 
Both swim teams beat Duke convincingly on Friday but then fell to nationally ranked North Carolina State on
~ ~lfu\81 17th Annual Program ~ 
Saturday. Coach Tim Welsh claims the efforts were admirable under the circumstances. 
~ J 
~ London Rome ~ Kelly signs rich contract with Bills 
~ May 23-June 23 June 17-July 16 ~ 
BUFFALO. N.Y. (API -Jim Trevino would not comment According to that survey, the
~ Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, ~ 
Kelly is close to signing a con­on terms of the contract, but Philadelphia Eagles' Randall ~ Scotland, and France Germany, and ~ tract that could keep him a sources close to the talks con­Cunningham, who signed a new Buffalo Bill the remainder of firmed reports that a six-year contract last season, leads the
~ Switzerland ~ 
his career, a spokesman for the extension will be worth about league with an annual salary of ~ * lnfonnatlonal Meeting ~ quarterback said Monday. $20 million. $2.6 million. ~ : come visit with last years students and ~ Roger Trevino. one of four Kelly's base salary would pay But San Francisco 49ers ~ * Feb.19, 7:30pm ~ negotiators for Kelly, said all him $3 million a year, accord­quarterback Joe Montana, ~ : teachers over refreshments and pizza. ~ major issues have been covered ing to Sunday's editions of The named MVP in the Super Bowl ~ * Caroll Hall, SMC ~ and all that remains is to final­Buffalo News, which said the last month, is expected to enter 
ize details. quarterback also would receive the $3 million-a-year club when "We're very, very close," a signing bonus of between impending contract negotia­
~ Courses offered in ~ 
Trevino said Monday, predict­$1.5 million and $2 million. tions conclude. Montana made ~ ART, BUSINESS, EDUCATION, ~ ing a deal will be closed within That would make Kelly the $1.99 million last year. ~ HISTORY, ITALIAN, BIOLOGY For more Info, contact ~ the next three weeks. "It's been highest-paid player in the NFL, Trevino said Kelly wasn't ~ and SOCIOLOGY Prof. Black 4460 or 272-3726 ~ an on-going, progressive evo­according to a salary survey concerned with being the ~ Passport pies available ~ lution throughout the negotia­released recently by the NFL league's highest-paid player. 



tions." Players Association. 
~................................................................................................................................................~ 

LaFortune Lobby 10 a.m. -3 p.m. 
Come see your favorite software in action. 
"I don't even think that ever entered into it," Trevino said. "(Bills general manager Bill) Polian has been more than fair. 
Each  side  knows  what  the  
benchmarks are."  
What  was  more  important,  

according to Trevino. was that Kelly wanted to end his career in Buffalo. 
"Jim wanted to be able to spend the rest of his career with the Buffalo Bills," he said. "Jim likes the Buffalo Bills or­ganization. He moved his busi­ness and his organization here to western New York. He's making a commitment to the Buffalo Bills and western New York." 
Kelly, who turns 30 next week, would be 36 by the time the contract ended and while Trevino said Kelly would "make a realistic assessment and see if he's physically able to per­form past that age," it was likely he would retire at that point. 
The Bills made Kelly a first­round draft choice in 1983, but he spurned their offer for a lu­crative deal with the United States Football League's Houston Gamblers. 
After two record-setting sea­sons there, Kelly signed with the Bills in 1986. 

The Observer Tuesday, February 6, 1990 
page 18 
Barkley says he'll play, Sixers continue streak 
Eackles made four consecutive free throws in the final 25 sec­PIIILAI>ELPIIIA (AP) 
Charles Barkley of thA PhiladAiphia 76ers said Monday 
onds to pull out what appeared that he will bow to league pres­
an easy victory eight minutes 
sure and play in the NBA All­earlier. 
Star Game next Sunday. 
Washington outscored Golden Barkley announced Sunday 
State 45-34 in the third quarter that he would skip the game to 
for its highest point total in a rest, saying a strained lng mus­
quarter this year, surpassing de had nagged him for several 
41 in the first quarter of a 119­107 loss to Cleveland on Jan. 5.
days. lie heard from the NBA Sarunas Marciulionis and Monday. Terry Teagle each scored 23 
"I'm going to play," he said. points to lead Golden State. "They gaVI' me a play-or-else Milt Hichrnond added 22. deal. They said I would be sus­The Warrior's leading scorer, pended next week if I play this Chris Mullin, finished with 14 wnek and miss the thn game. points after scoring 11 in the Obviously. I don't agree with opening quarter. them. but I'V!~ got to go . Washington led 62-54 at half­
.. 
"I know that East tnarn is re­time and outscored Golden ally struggling," hn said in jest. State 9-2 to open the third "But tlwy make the rules, and I quarter, taking a 71-56 lead on have to live by th1Hn." Jpff Malone's foul line jumper 
Thn injury, originally diag­with 1 0:15 to play in the period. nosed as a groin pull, hobbled The Bullets extended their Barklny on Sunday. In a 114-89 lead to 91-69 with 5:40 left in victory over the Jazz on the third period after consecu­Monday, he played only 27 min­tive three-point plays by Harvey utes but scon~d 16 points and Grant and Malone. had eight rPbounds. Behind 23-14, the Bullets 
outscored the Warriors 17-2
76ers 114, Jazz 89 
beginning late in the first quar­ter, taking a 31-25 lead 32 sec­Pllll.ADELPIIIA (APJ -The onds into the second quarter onPhiladelphia 76ers, getting 20 a jumper by Eaekles. 
points for Hersey Hawkins, ex­tended the longest winning SuJ)erSonics 101 streak of the NBA season to 12 Hornets 100 games with a 114-89 victory Monday night over the Utah CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) ­
Jazz. Olden Polynice had a foul shot Charles Barkley. hampered by and tip-in in the final 31 
sec­a strained leg muscle, had 16 onds Monday night as the points and eight rebounds in 27 Seattle SuperSonics beat minutes. Barkley had two steals 
Charlotte 101-100, the Hornets' and four points to spark the eighth straight loss. 76ers as they scored the last 14 
Seattle won its third consecu­points of the first period to tive road game after losing 12 lead 35-21. 
in a row. The Hornets lost their Karl Malone had 29 points seventh straight horne game, and Blue Edwards 14 for Utah. 
and their 14th in the last 15 which lost for only the third overall. time in 14 games. 
Polynice, who scored seven 
.Johnny Dawkins added 16 points, was fouled by J.H. Reid points, Mike Gminski and Hon after a missed shot by Seattle's Andnrson 11 apiece and Hick Xavier McDaniel. Polynice made 
Mahorn 10 points and 11 re­his first foul shot for a 99-98 lead and, after missing his sec­bounds for Philadelphia, which ond free throw, tipped in amaintained its tie with the New missed shot by Quintin Dailey. 
York Knieks atop the Atlante Charlotte got a basket withDivision. 
15 seconds to play by Armon
The 76ers increased their 
Gilliam. but Seattle ran out thelead to 47-28 on a layup by dock.
Derek Smith, and then tlw Jazz Neither team led by moreclosed to 53-21 with 2:19 lnft in 
than eight throughout the
the second period. The 76ers 
lwld a game, with the Hornets holding
60-43 lead at halftime, 
the biggest advantage of the
eonne.r.ting on 24 of 44 shots, game, 78-70, with 4:44 left inwhile Utah was 17 of 38. 
the third period.
Leading 74-57 midway through the third quarter, 
But Seattle outscored the Philadelphia scored 10 straight 
Hornets 10-2 in the final 3:29 points during a 16-2 surge to 
of the third period to tie it. The Sonics opened a 96-89 lead ontake its biggest lead of the 
game. 90-59, at the end of the a 16-footer by McDaniel with third. 
4:53 to play before Charlotte Bullets 135 made it 98-all with 1:10 re­Warriors 129 maining on Tyrone Bogues' two free throws. 
LANDOVER. Md. (APJ McDaniel scored 22 points, Bernard King scored 30 points, Nate McMillan had 14 and Ledell Eackles 29 and Jeff Dailey and Derrick McKey 11 Malone 28 as the Washington each for Seattle. Bullets snapped the Golden plate Warriors' four-game Cavaliers 100 winning streak, 135-129 Clippers 84 Monday night. ' The Bullets, who had lost 14 HICHFIELD, Ohio (AP) of their previous 17 games, Mark Price scored nine of his scored their most points this 20 points in the third quarter season. Darrell Walker had 15 and Cleveland had seven players points, 15 rebounds and 10 as­s~ore in double figures Monday sists for his third triple-double mght as the Cavaliers beat the of the season. Los Angeles Clippers 100-84 for 
Washington built a 119-96 their fourth win in live games. lead before the Warriors closed The Cavaliers led only 41-38 with a 28-10 run that got them at halftime, but then went on within 129-124 on a layup by third-quarter runs of 16-2 and John Shasky with 1:31 to play. 12-0 to put it away. Price 
After Walker made one of capped the first flurry with a 3­two free throws. Terry Teagle point basket and finished off sank a 3-point shot with 31 the second by making a 20-foot seconds left to pull the jumper and one of two free Warriors within 130-127. throws. 

The loss was the seventh in in the first quarter. points Monday night, leading nine games for the Clippers, Price sank a jumper at the the New York Knicks to a 116­who have been torn apart by halftime buzzer, putting the 107 victory over the Miami injuries at the guard spot. Gary Cavaliers ahead by three, and Heat. Grant and former Cavalier Hon after the Clippers whittled it to Harper are both out for the two early in the second half, Hony Seikaly scored 14 of his year because of leg injuries, Larry Nance hit an 18-footer to 22 points in the first nine min­and Jay Edwards missed the start the 16-2 surge that gave utes of the third quartPr as the game because of the flu. Knicks 116, Heat 107 Ileal closed a 12-point halftime 
Los Angeles made eight of its deficit to live points on three first nine shots and led by as occasions, the last time at 68­
NEW YORK (APJ -Patrick 
many as eight early in the game 63 with 6:32 lnft. But an 8-1
Ewing had 24 points and a ca­
before a 3-point basket by Price run late in the period gave New
reer-high nine blocked shots 
gave Cleveland a 21-20 lead late and Charles Oakley scored 24 York its largest lead, 85-72. 



Tuesday, February 6, 1990 The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Tuesday 
3:30 p.m. Lecture, "Molecular Beam Investigations of Surface Chemical Reactions and Dynamics," by Charles Mullins, IBM Almaden Research Center, San Jose, CA. Room 356 Fitzpatrick. Refreshments Room 181. Sponsored by Dept. of Chemical Engineering. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Interactions Between Landscape Pattern and Ecological processes," by Dr. Monica Turner, Oakridge National Laboratory. Galvin Auditorium. Sponsored by Biological Sciences. 
8 p.m. Lecture, by Rev. Richard McCormick. Hesburgh Auditorium. Sponsored by Ideas and Issues. 
Tuesday 
7 p.m. Film, "Shoeshine." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
9 p.m. Film, "Blonde Cobra" and "Scorpio Rising." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
Wednesday 
12:10 p.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous. Holy Cross House. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Batter Fried Perch Roast Turkey Fettucini Alfredo Monte Cristo Sandwich 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
PLA~~E.D TO Tf..'(E 11\E OM Off niD SPaiD llto\t '«ITH f>. COIJP\£ OF SUOD\ES . to\~ BUDDIES TAA'JEL LIG\-IT A.~\J n.IEfRE. FUN 1\l W>-.1/E A.~t-10. 00£ TRf>..IJBS IN f.. \-\0\..SID<, A.ND Tl-\t. 0"11\ER II'\ t>. 1-\\P FLA.<:.K. 
rnt. LAST TI-\\NG I WM\TtO T\-\\5 lt\ORNIN.G 'tlA.<:. A. cAsE ro ~1..\fi:, BU\ nit. OAME '«1-10 BRO\l<i.I-\T \T Wf>..S PERSIJ~SWE. ~ST Of..MES 
ARE,C:Ctv\E\-ICW. 
~.H.H.H/AV/.H/.H.H/AV.H////.H.H///.H.H/////.H/.H//.H//.H/.H///.H//.H/.H/.H//.U.H///AV//.H/.H.H/AV//.H//.H/.U/.HAWHAVAYHHHUU.HhJW.UAVHUUHH....W~AVAVHHAJ. 
1ToNIGHT's EVENTs 
~ 
~I  nAJn{(·rv1:;x_.TE/l~~PESfJ'  
~  
~ ~  fO\[f@@@rnlU®lf'  ©~MlP)  IYM®®@l®W  
~  LIVE Entertainment and Refreshments  
~  
~  
~  9:00-11:00 PM  
~  Haggar Hall St. Mary's College  

&::::::.~---­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
measures -=+:=+:;+.::--1-:-1 21 Sac red picture 
GARY LARSONTHE FAR SIDE 
• 
rtJ&JaUil®OU& rtJUiJMa-&Uu 1 • 
~
WJ®®ff! I ~ 
~ 
~ 
Lecture on ~MrJiru®rnl ®®l;{M®~~U)Y ~ 
i
by Fr. Richard McCormick ~ Library Auditorium ~ ~ ~ 
8:00 PM ~ j 
CROSSWORD 53 Inhabitant of New York City, 
e.g. 59 Paradise 60 Apportion 61 N.Y. college or 
Hebrides island 62lceflow 63 Useful 64 Cozy shelter 65 With "bonnet," 
Houston's bowl 66 Jacksonville's -Bowl 67 Merriment 
DOWN 1 Inclined way 2 Above 3 Trigonometric function 4 Skilled 5 Gone up 

&Actress Anderson 
26 Kind 40 Fountain or 7 Preminger or Rozelle
27 EyelashesGraham 41 Tailor's chore 28 Reed8 Lena or Marilyn 
instruments 43 Three, in Trento 9-Parseghian 
29 Russian 44 Spanish movie of football fame 
1oTemple's ­Bowl 
11 To be, in Paris 12 Sea swallow 
theateremperors 
46Miami's-Bowl 
31 More pallid 
32 Confusion, to 47 Kind of pin
aG.I. 49 Fourth Greek 
33 Redacts letter35 Skin growth 
51 "-mio dolce 
36 Owns 
ardor," Gluck 60 Month before 37 Frozen H20 aria Sept. 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

.... 
52 South American country 54 Landed 55 Alone 
56 Christmas carol 57 Start of the Bay State's motto 
58 Estimate 59 Flow back 
ACROSS 
1 Pasadena's -Bowl 5 Honolulu's-Bowl 10 Festival 14 Eager 15 Helicopter part 16 Part of a list 17 Bill of fare 18 Within: Prefix 19 Makes mistakes 20 Accuracy 22 Cambodian coin 23 Boris Becker boomer 24 Exude 27Dallas's-Bowl 30 Pass by, as time 
34 Author of "Peer Gynt" 35 Kind of broom 38 Furthermore 39 Cargo 40 Atlanta's-Bowl 41 Jai­42 Comparative ending 43 Taut 44 Split 45 Classify 47 Orlando's-Bowl 48 Tall grass stem 50 Extra-point score 51 Ration-book agency of WW II 

The untold ending to the fable, "The Grasshopper and the Ant." 
~LUHU.UH7H.H.H~AVAVAVAV'AVAVH7H.H.HAVAV'U.U~.HHHHHHAVAVAV'LUH~~~ 
Sports
page 20 Tuesday, February 6, 1990 
Notre Dame signs five-year television contract with NBC 
several decades now, and we
By THERESA KELLY football except Notre Dame.' expects to have between 47 and all than to be on in only a por­
Sports Editor hope that national television "We are happy to reach a na­53 games televised. all tion of the country. can go a long way to help alle­tional audience, your alumni. crammed into a 13-week sea­"The CFA did a marvelous jobNotre Dame and NBC an­viate some of the ticket prob­on a national level, as well as son. This ambitious schedule in negotiating a pact for its nounced an agreement Monday lems." 
show the most competitive means more regional games constituency. To be fair to ev­for nationally televising all Notre Dame's interest in the schedule all across the coun­and fewer national telecasts, a eryone. a certain degree of re­Notre Dame home football deal stems from its need to try." 
facet of the agreement that gionalization is required." 
games for a five-year period reach a nationwide audience of Notre Dame currently partic­started Notre Dame looking "The kt~y to our deal was as beginning in 1991. Irish fans. ipates in the College Football elsewhere. 
many exposures to as many
"We are delighted to have the "We're just thrilled to be part Association television pact. "Notre Dame's student body people as possibiP," Ebersol opportunity to present all of of one of the greatest traditions which runs through the upcom­comes from every state in the 
said. "W1~ are accomplishing 
our home games to our fans on of football," NBC Sports ing season. Notre Dame offi­nation, proportional to each this at a time when many deals a national basis," Notre Dam!~ President Dick Ebersol said. cials did not commit to the CFA state's population." Rosenthal arP going away from freP TV athletic director Richard "When I was just starting in pact until reviewing the eon­said. "Hegionalization is a hin­
towards pay."Hosenthal said. "Our home sports. Beano Cook told me, tract for the next term. drance to Notre Dame. It might games have b1~en sold out for 'nothing matters in college In the new contract, the CFA be better for us to not be on at see CONTRACT I page 14 
Women's tennis sharp at Eck Doubles Classic 
By BARBARA MORAN \1irhigan for tlw titiP. Sports Writer Irish !'oach Jay l.oudPrback was plnasnd with his team's 
The NotrP DamP woml'n's pPrformani'P, <'SpPrially with tPnnis tnam made a strong tlw play ol' Barton and Brad­showing in tlwir lirst~wtch of shaw. 
thP year, placing its to -SPPdPd "Tiwy !Barton and Brad­doubiPs tPam of Trary Barton shawl started out slow. but and Ann Bradshaw th1 ·d in a played bnttnr with Parh mat!'h," field of 44 at thl' l~rk I oubiPs said LoudPrhark. "Th<·ir onlv Classic last WPPkPnd. bad matrh was in tlw l'irs't 
Of thn 44 tPams colllJH'ting in round against NortlH•rn llli­the thn~e-day t<HII'IHlllWJit. 32 nois-lhny won hut tlwy didn't wern snt up in a doubln Plimina­play w<'ll. It was a tough first tion format. while thn romain­matrh, but for tlw first tinw ing 12 competed in a round­playing tog!'thnr. tlwy playpd robin eompntition. n~ally well... I was happy with
ND Fencers roll towards NCAAs 
The Univ1~rsity of Knntu!'ky tlw way <wnrybody playf'CI." grabbed top honors in tlw main Although Notre Damn is not
Both men's and women's teams steamroll competition 
draw, defeating Indiana Uni­rurn~ntly rankPd nationally versity in two sets for the (except for Barton. who isBy CHRISTOPHER FILLIO Saturday," said Irish head awaiting a big kill when championship. Notre Dame's ranked 29th), Louderback be­Sports Writer fencing coach Mike DeCicco. Wayne State was slated to Barton-Bradshaw duo, playing lievPs that that may soonWeather conditions on lumber into town. Earlier in for the first time together, took change. though not as a rf'sultThe Notre Dame fencing Saturday were such that the week, DeCicco had high­third in three hard-fought sets. of last weekend's Classic.
teams woke bright and early Michigan State Troopers lighted this matchup as one defeating Ohio State by scores "We have some matelwsSaturday for their first were forced to close off all of the key hurdles remaining of 6-4, 1-6, 6-4. against some nationally rankedhome m1wt of the season, major interstates, on the Notre Dame regular Also finishing strong for the teams coming up," said Loud­arriving at their home gym restricting travel for season schedule. 
Irish was the doubles team of erback, Kso the combination ofto find it ... thousands of would-be "I certainly would have Kim Pacella and Tyler Musleh, that and Barton and BradshawEmpty. travelers. liked to have had that match which defeated two top-seeded doing so w<~ll should help us in"The only disappointment Perhaps. though, the against Wayne State," said teams, including the top duo the rankings."
we had this weekend was Tartars were spared from DeCicco. "It would have from the University of Hawaii. The Irish wonwn are cur­that Wayne State cancelled the lion's den, as Irish ap­Notre Dame also captured rently ranked fifth in tlw Mid­
their engagement for petites were anxiously see FENCERS I page 16 
first place in the round-robin west division, and will next tournament. with the matchup challenge fourth-ranked
Leszek Nowosielski powers potent sabre squad 
of Hesa Kelly and Samantha Northwestern on Saturday at By SCOTT BRUTOCAO pate in a cross-cultural stu­the weekends is to make the 
Mason edging out Eastern the Eek Pavilion. Sports Writer dent convf'ntion, nor even to Canadian Olympic team, a 
get some sun. squad that consists of the l.eszPk Nowosielski. a This scholar-athlete from top eight fenenrs in the NotrP DamP junior. boarded Ottawa. Ontario, travel1~d to country. Only the top five are 
a plane for Budapest. the far reaches of the allowed to fence when repre­llungary. on Friday and re­Eastern bloc to participate senting their country at a turned on Monday. in a World Cup fencing com­major event. No. it wasn't to congratu­petition. Presently Nowosielski is in lal!~ the democratic Nowosielski's goal in protPstl~rs. nor to partiri-crossing major oceans on 
see LESZEK I page 16 

By CHRIS COONEY 
Sports Writer 
Tlw Notre Danw women's 
.. 
baskPtball team should bn nx­hausted. 
In thP last two we1~ks the Irish have faced six teams. After tonight's contest in Chkago versus Loyola. the 14-6 Notre Damn squad will finally be able to take a much needed week's ·rest befon~ their matehup next Tuesday against Butler. 
But first the Irish will have to face their most formidable MCC opponent. Although Notre Dame looks much better than the Lady Ramblers on paper, Irish head coach Muffet Mc­loague game when we played them at home," said McGraw, referring to the HS-72 Notre Dame victory on Jan. 16. "And we've had some changes since then." 
The biggest difference Mc­Graw eited is the loss of sophomore forward Comalita llaysbert. llaysbert, who is out for the season, keyed the last Irish win by containing Loyola star Sheryl Porter. The junior guard is averaging 21.9 ppg and was the MCC Player of the Year last year. 
"We'II have to play more of a zone," said McGraw, "because now we don't have anyone who can stop her." 
ference play. thn structure of the team has changed little from last year. That squad tied 
Notre Dame as conference champions and lost only its point guard from the starting lineup. 
Aiding Porter for the Lady Hamblers will be Cindy Pruim, and 5-9 sophomore who is av­nraging 15.5 ppg. According to McGraw, Pruim is one of the best three-point shooters in the land. 
"We can't have any letdowns in that game," commented Mc­Graw, whose team holds a 10-3 edge in the eight-year series with the Ramblers. "But the girls know it's a big game and I 

Graw expects a close game. Although the Lady Ramblers think they'll be ready for it." Lisa Kuhns (14) and a much-beleaguered women's basketball team "They gave us our closest are 8-8 overall and 3-3 in eon-must battle Loyola before taking a much-needed week rest. 

