
VOL. XXIII NO. 108 WEDNESDAY . MARCH 21. 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
West German government stops aid to East German resettlers 
BONN. West Germany (AP) -markets and worn out many united Germany to occur untir West Germany decided Tuesday West Germans' patience for the after West Germany's Dec. 2 to scrap a 40-year-old aid pro­newcomers. elections. He previously had 
gram for East German reset­Schaeuble said Bonn expects said all-German elections are 
tiers by this summer, saying it major steps toward unification unlikely until sometime next expects major strides toward in the wake of the East German year. unification by then that would election Sunday, and that im­
makP thP aid unnecessary. proved conditions for East Under the Cabinet decision, 
The Bonn government also Germans would make the spe­as of .July 1 any new East stl~pped up prnssure on its new cial aid unnecessary. German arrivals would not be East German allies to come to a "We assume that by summer able to receive special benefits quick decision on the futun~ we will be able to achieve a cur­such as guarantees of a place governing coalition in East rency, economic and social to stay, "starting-out money" BPrlin. community," he said. and low-interest loans. 
Volker Hul'he, head of The two Germanys are nego­Chancellor Helmut Kohl's tiating a monetary union in Schaeuble said that West Christian Democratic Union. which the West German mark Germany wants to send a lwld talks in East Berlin with would replace East Germany's "psychological signal" to East leaders of the three-party con­currency. The two states also Germans thinking about moving servative alliance that placed plan other links as part of an west and that it is possible first in Sunday's East German "economic union" to help res­emigres would be encouraged elections. Among them was cue East Germany's run-down to return voluntarily. East German Christian economy and prepare for unifi­East Germans already receiv­Democratic Union chairman cation. ing social assistance apparently Lothar de !'vlaiziere. thf' likely West Germany further plans won't be affected. new premier. to provide massive social assis­
Wolfgang Schaeuble. West tance to East Germans as the .Justifying the decision, Germany's intP.rior minister. nations come closer together. Schaeuble said he expects the said the Cabinet had decided to llans Klein, Kohl's chief incentive for East Germans to end the n~settl!'ment program spokesman, said the next steps move west to wane as economic for East Germans on .July 1, toward unification were the conditions improve with West meaning that after thl'n. arriv­main topic at the Cabinet meet­German help. ing East GNnuws would not be ing. lie quoted Kohl as saying He cited signs that the exodus giwn sperial tn~atment. East Germany will have to un­was already letting up after 
Nearly 500,000 East Germans dertake "a series of constitu­Sunday's elections. He said haw resettled in West Germany tional changes" to achieve the 1,539 resettlers had arrived in thP last 14 months. The exo­planned "currency, economic Monday, compared with 2,702 dus has devastatP.d East and social steps." on the same day a week earlier. Germany's Pronomy. strained Kohl reiterated that he does WPst G1mnan housing and job not expect elections for a see GERMANY I page 5 
Chinese premier promises more hard-line social policies 
BEIJING lAP) -PremiP.r Li for more central planning and ple were killed in the crack­Li said class struggle would had fallen asleep, chins l'nng on Tuesday reaffirmed control of the economy. down. continue for a long time "and propped on chests, while others China's hard-line policies "A trend toward bourgeois­He said the pro-democracy may even become acute under struggled to stay awake, wiping 
their faces with wet towels,stP.mming from last year's liberalization thinking had run movement was led by hostile certain conditions." He called yawning and rubbing their eyes. 
crushing of the pro-democracy rampant during previous forces trying to turn China into for "intensive education," espe­Behind Li on the podium,
movement, attacking Western years," he told the 2,705 dele­a bourgeois republic dependent cially of young people, in ideol­ideas and praising the gates to the National People's on capitalist countries. ogy and political thought. China's aged leadership held 
whispered conversations withsuperiority of socialism. Congress. But, he said, In contrast to recent devel­"It is essential to distinguish each other during the speech. 
"As we confront pressure "importance has been attached opments in the Soviet Union clearly between socialist Senior leader Deng Xiaoping 
from abroad and difficulties at afresh to ideological and politi­and Eastern Europe, Li pro­democracy and bourgeois home. preservation of the coun­cal work." claimed that "come what may, democracy," he said. "We must was missing from the rostrum, try's stability is a matter of Li noted the "soul-stirring socialist China will stand rock ... maintain sharp vigilance and his seat conspicuously empty paramount importance," Li struggles" of 1989, including firm in the East" and reaf­resolutely combat this corro­beside party chief .Jiang Zemin. 
Zhao Ziyan, Jiang's predeces­
said in a state of the nation ad­the victory over the firmed the leading role of the sive trend of thought." drPss to opPn China's annual "counterrevolutionary rebel­Communist Party. There was little response sor who was purged from all IPgislative session. lion"-the government's term "Upholding socialism is in­from the floor as Li droned party posts last summer after 
l.i stressed th<' importance of for the student-led pro-democ­separable from upholding lead­through the 59-page, 2 1/2-being accused of supporting the 
student-led democracy move-
maintaining correct ideology to racy movement crushed by mili­ership by the party," he said, hour speech, raising his voice rombat "bourgeois liberalism," tary force in June. Hundreds equating it with national stabil­at a few key points to elicit ap­
see CHINA I page 4 or Western ideas, and the need and perhaps thousands of peo-ity and unity. plause. A few delegates clearly 

Prosecution rests its case in Poindexter's Contra trial 
WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. adopted false information District Judge Harold Greene "designed to obstruct denied John Poindexter's mo­Congress." tion for acquittal Tuesday after Poindexter "sent Oliver North the prosecution closed out its to meet with" the House intelli­case against the man who was gence committee, where North once President Reagan's na­lied by denying he was assisting tional security adviser. the Contras militarily, the judge 
Poindexter's lawyers said said in rejecting the motion for they would begin playing seven a acquittal. hours of videotaped testimony There is evidence that the from Reagan on Wednesday in "defendant destroyed" a presi­an effort to bolster their dential finding as well as client's defense. Poindexter is "5,000 ... notes" in his com­accused of obstructing and ly­puter on the Iran initiative, said ing to Congress to cover up the Greene. Iran-Contra affair. Poindexter attorney Richard 
Greene said evidence garnered Beckler told Greene there is no 
APPHOTO 

from ten witnesses called by the evidence Congress had inquiries prosecution in its 7 1/2-day pending at the time Poindexter In Montgomery, Alabama, thirteen-year-old Elliot Sanders maneuvers a boat around a basketball goal in 
presentation against supplied information on the his yard yesterday. Recent flooding has caused ten deaths and left 3500 people homeless. 
Poindexter suggests that he Contras. 


..---------------­
Wednesday, March 21, 1990
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Life is too short to take me seriously 
As I pmulerl'(l what to write in my Inside Column, the ghost of columnists past came to nw (yt~ah I know that's been happtming a lot and no these vi­


sions an~n't drug-rP­Iated.) John O'Brien "So," lw said, Managing Editor "what's your column ahou t'?" --------­llmm. I don't n•ally know. What do you think I should write about'? "I low about your Spring Bn~ak'? llny! you went to your sistl'l"'s wpdding. didn't you'? Writ.P about that." No way. No mort~ chnnsy columns for mP. I got Pnough crap for that whole "niece" ar-· tide. and that was pure VPivnnta. "But that was rutP. Didn't your mom sPnd eo piPs of that out with all of the birth an­nourwPmPnts'?" Exactly. I think nvPryonn in the Midwest got 1me. "Wow. that's embarrassing. Well. why don't you writP sonwthing sappy about how nxdtPd you arP about your nPw job'?" Nah, that's benr1 donn before and no orw wants to !war about what it's likn to be the l>;in Quayle of Tlw Observer. Aetually. I was hoping to writ.P sonwthing that would get me sonw hat!' mail. Maybe something about laundry. "No. that's been done before too. llow about writing about tlw swimsuit issue'?" No, that's old news. I got it! I'll right about Notrp Damn and Saint Mary's wonwn! "Whoa, Johnny Boy, did you say you wanted hatl' mail or a quick death'? I lwar tlwy still haven't found that 'Estrogen' guy." Good point. So, what do you think'? What am I going to write about'? "Well. why don't you write a philosophical artidn on some serious issue. You could make a profound comnwntary on the hu­man nxistenn~ and tlwn inject your personal wurldvinw." An~ you sure this isn't drug-n~lat1~d'? No one really takes me sPriously anyway-not 1wen me. ~y philosophy is that life is too short to take yourself seriously. I'm sure no mw wants to hear what I have to say about tlw state of world affairs. lwcause I'm far from an nxpl'rt. You forget, my frim1d. that pnopln read this during lunch. You want tlwm to lose it'? "Boy you surn are negative. Well, tlwn why don't you just roll ovnr and din if you think that you'rp never going to do anything im­portant." I never said that I wouldn't do anything important. I just think that doing something good doesn't require that you act likn an PXIH~rt wlwn you're far from it. "Okay. okay. Why don't you just write ANOTIII·:H mindlnss column about a rwicP or sonwthing'? llow dons THAT sound, Mr. Cardnw'?" Sounds gn•at to nw. 
"/"he opinions expressed in the Inside Col­umn are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

PO Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 Tuesday's Staff (219)-239· 7 4 71 
Production Cristina Oritz Kristm Costello Graphics Bradford J. Boehm

Viewpoint Ad Design Lisa Eaton News Val Poleno 
Peter Yob Jeanne Naylor Systems Paul Pearson Ryan Roberts Mark Sloan Quinn Satepauhoodle Tim Quinn Lisa Gunsorek 
Arne/ J. Gallanosa Sports Wednesday Barbara Bryn Sports Molly Mahoney Joe Zadrozny Chris Cooney 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
WEATHER 

80 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
r-_::::=1 YV ..;_;,'1 l _ : l
® © mTI. ~ ED tz3 0 " c.:::::..:J ~ ____.l •----l 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta Assoctaled Press GraphtcsNet 
NATIONAL 
Singer Gloria Estefan of the hit group Miami Sound Machine suffered a broken vertebra Tuesday when a truck ran into the band's bus on a snow-covered high­way in the Pocono Mountains, authorities said. The 32­year-old singer was in stable condition at Community Medical Center in Scranton with a broken vertebra in the middle of her back, said hospital spokeswoman Nancy Parlo. Estefan was not paralyzed, said Dr. William Pfeifer, who treated her. He refused to say if surgery was planned. 
A long-lost, tree-dwelling relative of humans and apes has been found in a leech-infested rain forest in Madagascar, an event described as one of the most im­portant rediscoveries of mammals in a decade. Bernhard Meier, a biologist at Ruhr University in Bochum, West Germany, emerged from the forest with an injured knee, blood poisoning and malaria -as well as the first pho­tographs of the hairy-eared dwarf lemur, a tiny primate never before seen alive by scientists. Five preserved spec­imens. the first collected 115 years ago, are held in muse­ums, but until Meier's discovery researchers had no idea whether the creature still existed. 
Complaints from Mayor William Hudnut and others that the Hoosier Dome laeked a sign indicating its identity will be resolved. Bronze-colored letters 42 inches high costing a total of $7,500 will be placed above the dome's main entrance on Capitol Avenue. The Capital Im­provement Board, which operates the dome, voted 6-0 Monday to approve the expenditure for the lettering, which will be back lighted at night. The board is buying the letters from Federal Sign. The Hoosier Dome opened 
in 1984. 

CAMPUS 
Margaret Worthington, tlw widow of a former ND faculty mnmbnr, died on March 14 in Bayside, N.Y. She was 93. ller husband, Harry Worthington, assistant professor emeritus of managmmmt, died on March 4 at the age of 98. lin joinnd the ND faculty in 1953 after 32 ynars in PXPcutivt~ sales and management positions and retired in 1968. lie was a nwmber of the JIJ06 
U.S. Olympic track team. 
Thanks to an ovnrwhnlming response to its call for volunteers, Christmas in April now will repair and refurbish 57 homes in South Bend's West Washington neighborhood April 7. Over ;{00 volunteers from local skilled labor unions, city government, the University of Notre Damn. Saint Mary's College and the South Bend-Mishawaka community will complete an estimated $300,000 worth of' repairs during the one-day projnct for preselected elderly, handicapped and low-income homeowners. 
-----------. 
Yesterday's high: 31 
Yesterday's low: 17 
Nation's high: 95 

(Yuma Ariz. and Palm 
Springs, Calif.) 
Nation's low: 8 
(Marquette, Mich.) 

Forecast: Cloudy and mild today with a 30 percent chance of afternoon showers. Highs 50 to 55. Cloudy tonight with a 30 percent chance of showers. Lows in the lower 40s. Partly cloudy and a little cooler Thursday. Highs in the upper 40s . 
WORLD 
©1990 Accu·Weather. Inc. 
Women who arrange for abortions at many New 
York City clinics often lind their appointments canceled once they reveal that they are infected with the AIDS virus, an informal survey suggests. Callnrs from the city's human rights commission made appointments with 30 abortion clinics and physicians. Twenty canceled the appointment after the caller said she was infcctt)d with the IIIV virus, but had no symptoms of AIDS. 
A majority of Iran's parliamnnt members has de­manded that the government not negotiate to gain free­dom for Western hostages in Lebanon, Tehran radio re­ported Tuesday. The radio, monitored in Cyprus, said parliament issued a statement Monday night saying the fate of the captives should depend only on the Lebanese. The statement, signed by 170 members of the 270-mem­ber parliament, was the latest sign of a power struggle in Tehran over the captives. 
INDIANA 

John Roncz, an aviation designer who holpnd de­velop the first aircraft flown without refueling around the world will collect more than $2 million in a legal battle with Beech Aircraft Corp. ''I'm not angry at Bnnch any­more," said Honcz, who dnsignnd thn light-weight skin for the Voyager aircraft and latnr the rigid sail for a contro­versial catamaran that captured the America's Cup. Honcz of nearby Granger claimed Beech had reneged on an engineering contract with his company, Gemini Tech­nologies Inc. Beech canceled the contract in 1987, two years into the live-year life of the agreement. 
MARKET UPDATE Closings for March 20. 1990 

Volume in shares 
177.32 Million 
S&P Composite 341.57 {7 1.96 Dow Jones Industrials 2,738.74 {716.89 
Precious Metals Gold {7 $6.70 to $393.30 I oz. 
Silver{)-6.7¢ to $5.043 I oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On March 22: 

e In 1901: .Iapan proclaims it is dPtPrmirwd to prPwnt Bus­sian Prwnmchnwnt IH~ar KorP<t. 
e In 1915: In Poland. llus­sians takP l'n•msyl aftPr a I 1)4­day siPgP. and rn"sunw advarH"P through Carpathian Mountains. 
e In 1933: FI>H signs bill IP­galizing bPPr and wirw. 
e In 1969: Doctors in llous­lon perform lirst transplant of the human I'Y~"· 
e In 1983: In Nicaragua. 2,000 insurgnnts cross tlw bordnr. from llonduras. 


Wednesday. March 21. 1990 The Observer 
Minority representative in Senate wins HPC approval 
By MICHAEL OWEN 
A cook-out sponsored by the
News Writer 
dining halls, a live band. and a radio broadcast of the event 
The Hall President's Council have all been suggested. unanimously approved a reso­Farraher said that last year's lution offered by Studnnt Body regatta, "had 24 entries. and PrP.sident Matt Breslin for tlw about 2,500 students watched addition of a non-voting minor­the race." Proceeds will be ity rnpresentative for the given to an Arizona home for Student Senate at Tuesday's the poor. meeting. This year's regatta will be 
The proposal had already dedicated to the memory of been approved by the Student William Hickey, who helped inl­Senate. tiate and continue the regatta. 
Breslin also announced an •Kevin Roxas, newly elected allotment for $200 for each President of Morrissey Manor, Hall fellow. This money will announced that the Morrissey help with the proposed "Last Film Festival will be held again Lecture Series" slated for each this year on Saturday. March 
Tuesday in April. Each speaker 24 in Cushing Hall at 7:30 p.m. will give a speech as if it were There will be no admission fee the last speech they would give but donations will be accepted 
in their lives. for the St. Hedwig's Outreach 
Finally, Breslin announced Center. that the Notre Dame commu­nity will be included in the •Farley Hall has formed a South Bend portion of the U.S. Food Nutrition Committee to Census this year rather than help generate ideas for im­having each student participate proved food service at Notre through their homes. The cen­Dame. The Committee would 
sus will be distributed after like to have at least one entree at each meal be low in fat and In other HPC announcements: cholesterol. Petitions will be 
•Jay Farraher of fisher Hall circulated to students for ap­nounced that the Fourth proval of this proposal. ual Fisher Regatta will be •Nominations for the Irish on St. Mary's Clover Award will now be Each dorm may enter taken. The winner of the number of boats if they award will be any member of meet the size requirements and the Notre Dame community 
have a crew between four and who has added to student life in a significant manner. 
The Observer 
Join the more than 12,000 readers who have found the Observer an indespensible link to the two campuses. The Observer in your home for $25 a semester or $40 for a full year, 
The Observer P.O.Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
COUNSELINE 
all you do is dial 239·7793 and ask for the name or number of tape you want to hear.Counseline is a confidential telephone service that offers professionally taped materials covering a variety of student concerns 
Mon. • Fri, 4·12 
Tape# Title 
1 Friendship Building 50 4 Physical intimacy 51 6 Expressing negative 52 
thoughts and feelings 61 7 Dealing with 70 constructive criticism 
83 

8 Dealing with anger 9 Understanding jealousy-84 
how to deal with it 10 How to say no 16 Becoming open to 
others 20 Female homosexuality 21 Male homosexuality 30 Anxiety-how to cope 32 dealing with lonliness 33 Handling fears 34 Increasing self 
awareness 35 Building self esteem 37 Relaxation exercises 38 Coping with stress 39 Female sex role­
changes and stresses 40 Male sex role-changes and stresses 44 Accepting yourself 
Offered By University Counseling Center,University of Notre Dame for more information or assistance, call 239-7336 
85 90 161 
402 412 431 432 433 478 
479 
491 
492 
493 

Eating disorders Anorexia Bulimia Therapy and how to use Infatuation or love? Coping with broken relationships Death and dying Understanding grief Helping a friend Responsible decisions about drinking Self-assertiveness Contract building What is depression Dealing with depression Depression as a lifestyle Becoming independent from parents dealing with alcoholic parents Suicidal crisis Recognizing suicidal potential in others Helping someone in a suicidal crisis 
-~---­
Wednesday, March 21, 1990
page 4 The Observer 

Missing Manet 

Artist Edouard Manet's painting "Chez Tortoni," pictured here, was one of nu.m~rou.s works stole~ Sun­day from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in B.oston. The value of the m1ss1ng 1tems was estimated to be more than $200 million. The museum was not tnsured aga1nst theft. 
China 
continued from page 1 
nwnt, also was missing. Zhao is a deputy from Sichuan provin.ce and n~portedly had asked lor leave from the congress. 
Much of J.i's spPeeh was de­voted to China's struggling economy, which tlourislwd and tlwn overlwatPd undPI' Deng's m~onomic rpforms of tlw past deea<ll~. l.i imposed tough aus­terity nwasures in IIJHH to combat excessive growth and runaway intlation. 
lin reportPd that those mea­sun~s had rut tlw intlation rate to seven JWrC('Ilt from 30 per­C(~nt a year ago. 

~UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUQQUQQQQQQUUUUQQQQUQQQQQQQU~
;:;.~~._~...................._..._..._..._..._..._............_..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._..._.......~............................................................................_..._...._...._............................................_........_........_........_.................._..._............._.................~.....·................._......~..._..._..._..._..._.....":;::. 
..... ..... 
m ~DENf :~~~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
m SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT OVER BREAK. . . :~~; 
~ ~ 
~ i 
~~~ ~(W[M lf@~ ~lf(W[Q)~[Mlf ~~[M~lf@~ @~ :~~; 
Ill @lflf~(C~[M][p(W~ (C@~[p~~~~[Q)~~lf~ !i: 
~ ~ 
m ~~~.:~I~T~~~:~: Badin, Carroll, Dillon, Fisher, Howard, Lyons, ~~i ~~~ Morrissey and Pangborn :~~~
.... ..... 
!:,~ DISTRICT 2: Lewis, Old College, Sorin, St. Ed's, Walsh :·::.~ ~~~ DISTRICT 3: Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, Keenan, Stanford, Zahm :@ 
~ ~ ~~; DISTRICT 4: Flanner, Grace, Knott, PE, PW, Siegfried ·~$;
.... ,.... ~~~ DISTRICT 5: Off-Campus :~g 
~ ~ 
!:,~ (Note: students intending to live 0/C next year may run for 0/C Co-Presidents) ,..;:.~ 
~ ~ 
...,J ••••
.... ,.... 
~ ~ ~~; MANDATORY MEETING: Tuesday, March 20, 8:30p.m., Foster Rm., 3rd Floor LaFortune ·~$;
.... ,.... 
~~; PETITIONS due by 5:00p.m.: Wednesday, March 21, in Student Government Office ·~~~ ~~~ CAMPAIGNING BEGINS: Thursday, March 22 :~~; 
~ ~ ?~~ CAMPAIGNING ENDS: Midnight, Monday, March 26 :~g 
~~; ELECTIONS: Tuesday, March 27 ·~~; 
~ ~ 
?~~ RUN-OFF ELECTIONS: Thursday, March 29 :~~; 
,..,~ rl'•. 
~~~ Any questions, call Matt or Vinny at 239-7668. :~~i 
~.... . ~ .... 
~~~ ~~v n~n\\nrryn \\n~~n :~~~ 
~ ~~u uu~~~~~~~~ ~ 
~ .., ..,.,
........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................~ 
~rl'·~·rl'·~·rl'·~·rl'•rl'•rl'•~·rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•~·rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•~·rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•~·rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•~· 
..................................................................................................._ ....··-............_ ..........._ ......·-..............·-..........·-.....·-..........._ ....··-........................._ ............................_.IlL • ._ ........··-.............·-··-• ._ ................··-.IlL • ._ ........... ._ .................IlL. IlL .........IlL ....... 
Nicaraguan V.P.-elect faces fraud charges 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (APJ -Vice President-elect Virgilio Godoy said Tuesday that the Sandinista Front was engineer­ing a campaign to discrndit him by having him accused of fraud. The case could prevent his tak­ing office next month. 
The allegations involve re­search foundation funds. 
Judge Ramon Hojas Mendez of 4th District Criminal Court rejected the charge on a techni­cality Tuesday, but the charge could be liled again. 
The judge said the accusers failed to inform police, as re­quired before accusations can be presented in court. 
Godoy hinted that forces in 
his  own  United  National  
Opposition  coalition  were  in­ 
volved  in  what  he  called  a  

"campaign of calumny," i.n an internal power struggle to weaken his position when the governmnnt takes office April 25. 
Ill~ said he believes his life might be in danger if he is cleared in court. 
' "This shows the Sandinista 
Front's  interest  in  saying  
goodbye  by  kicking  Virgilio  
Godoy  ...  (and also)  the  in­ 

volvement of people from the private sector in this matter," Godoy said. 
lie said later, whnn asked to expand on the private sector remark, "It's an attempt on their part to weaken the ligurn of the vice president in order to obtain positions of power" within the new government. 
lie named no names. 

President-elect Violeta Chamorro and Godoy were the winning ticket of UNO. a coali­tion of 14 parties and one na­tive Indian organization. 
-------~--------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 21, 1990 The Observer 

APPHOTO
All charged up 

In Hopkinsville, Kentucky on Monday, Ralph Street, 79, held a model midget race car he built in 1940 but soon relegated to his attic because of World War II. Recently, he discovered that the 50-year-old batteries still are holding a charge. 
Jr)H ILOSOPHY 

J.P)OLITICS & 
mcoNOMICS 

A CONCENTRATION FOR STUDENTS MAJORING IN PHILOSOPHY, GOVERNMENT, OR ECONOMICS DEALING WITH THOSE AREAS IN WHICH THE THREE DISCIPLINES OVERLAP. THE PROORAM IS DESIGNED TO FOSTER DISCIPLINED INTELLECTUAL DEBATE AND INTERCHANGE AMONG THEORETICALLY REFLECTIVE STUDENTS AND FACULTY IN THE THREE DISCIPLINES. 
FOR DETAILS SEE: PROF. E. A. GOERNER, 314 O'SHAUGHNESSY (239-6377) 
INTERESTED STUDENTS SHOULD COME BY WELL BEFORE REGISTRATION TO RESERVE A PLACE. DEMAND OFTEN EXCEEDS THE PLACES AVAILABLE. 
IT'S COMING! 

IFITILJMI JFIE§1rNAlL 
SATUDAY, MARCH 24 7:30pm Cushing Auditorium 
page 5 
ND law students frown on ABA's stance on abortion 
By BRADLEY GALKO News Writer 
Most law school students wholly support the Law School faculty's stance against the American Bar Association's (ABA) opposition to restric­tions on abortion rights. 
Most students did not sup­port the faculty because of the position that the ABA took on abortion, but rather objected to the ABA making such a broad statement on behalf of its members. 
"I think that the ABA is not the kind of organization that should be taking those kind of broad stances on such a hot topic like that, regardless of what side that they take," said Brian Hynes, a second-year law student. "It is such an impor­tant and a divided issue that they shouldn't touch it," he added. 
Third-year student Bradley Grundy concurred, saying, "I think it's probably inappropri­ate for the ABA to take a stand on such a controversial issue. It is too divisive for a group like that which represents basically every attorney in the United States." 
..-----------------------.. ••••••••••••llllillililiiilllliiiliiiil••••••..members don't support
that 

~~~~ 

IRISH 
GARDENS 

is now accepting applications for Manager and Assistant Managers. 
Pick up applications in the Student Govt Office (2nd floor LaFortune) and return them by Noon on March 22, 1990 
Questions? Call Liz at 283 -3881 or Molly at 239-8040 
ADWORKS 

MEETINGF PROGRAM 

THIS MEETING SO THAT WE CAN SMOOTHLY ARRANGE THE HOSTING PRQ~RAM FORT:UEREST 
___________________________.
OF THE SEMESTER!!!! 
should handle it himself and that for principles of academic freedom they should not pass a resolution that purports to speak for every faculty member," said Grundy, ''I'd say both (resolutions) arc inappropriate." 
"I think it's difficult for any political organization to speak for all of its members," second-year student Katharyn Barron said of the ABA. "I think it's not only difficult, I think it's impossible." 
The faculty resolution, passed at a February 20 faculty meeting, reads in part, "The faculty of the Notre Dame Law School hereby: ( 1) strongly objects to the passage of the ABA abortion resolution ... believing said resolution to be wholly inappropriate and beyond the competence of the ABA." 
Typical of the prevailing atti­tude of law students, second-year student Gina Vairo said, "I agree with the faculty. I do think the (ABA) decision was beyond their bounds and I fully support the University and the 
faculty  in  . . .  their  stance  
against the ABA."  
Those  students and  faculty  

the faculty resolution generally do so on the grounds of academic freedom. "I think each individual faculty member should handle it himself and that for principles of academic freedom they should not pass a resolution that purports to speak for every faculty member," said Grundy, ''I'd say both (resolutions) are inappropriate." 
"I think it's difficult for any political organization to speak for all of its members," second­year student Katharyn Barron said of the ABA. "I think it's not only difficult, I think it's impossible." 
Germany 

There were rumors that Manfred Stolpe, chief adminis­trator for the Lutheran church in East Berlin, might be asked to become premier. Stolpe does not belong to any party, and this could make him an accept­able candidate to the Social Democrats. 
Ruche, the West German Christian Democrats' envoy, in­vited de Maiziere and other Alliance for Germany leaders to Bonn for talks with Kohl Wednesday and again called for a broad coalition that would include the Social Democrats. 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 
Lithuania creates new customs guard patrol 
VILNIUS. U.S.S.H. (AI') -Ilundreds of Lithuanian youths voluntnernd Tuesday to serve as the breakaway republic's cus­toms and frontier guards de­spite a Kremlin warning not to change bordM security opera­tions. 
Lithuanian President Vytautas Landsbergis said the warning from Moscow actually mark1~d the beginning of nego­tiations on tlw Baltic republic's dmnand for indnpPndence. lin said Lithuania agreed with much of the Kremlin statem1mt. including the order to maintain trade ties. 
Lithuania declared itself in­dependent on March 11, 50 years after it was occupied by the Hed Army and annexed to the Soviet Union. The Soviet Parliament dedarnd the decree invalid but did not say what steps it would take to stop the republic from seceding. 
In a stern warning to Lithuania on Monday, the Krmnlin ordered its own min­istries to ensure there wern no interruptions in customs and frontier procedures and in 
Wednesday, March 21, 1990
The Observer 


APPHOTO 
Candidacy announced 
Harvey Sloane announced he is running for U.S. S~nate before a crowd of about 100 people in Pikeville, Ken_tuc~y, Monday. Sloan: a former Louisville mayor, filled his speech with populist themes and barbs agarnst rncumbent Sen. Mrtch McConnell. Sloan's wife Kathy and son were present on stage. 
tradn. transport and communi­
rations. 
Lithuania Tuesday moved 
ahead with plans to take 
eharge of its borders, however, 
and youths volunteered to help. 
"I served two years in the oc­
cupying army, and now I want 
to serve in my own country's," 
said a young man as he rushed 
to turn in his applieation in a 
cramped office in the 
Lithuanian capital's center. 
Lithuanian offidals said them 
were no plans to arm the bor­
der foree. 
The symbolie value of the 
force may help convince other 
governments that Lithuania is 
controlling its territory and 
should be formally recognized 
as a full-fledged country, said 
Edward Tuskenis of the repub­
lic parliament's information 
center. 

The small Baltie republic was quiet Tuesday, with non!~ of the disturbing signs of Soviet troop movements that intimidated the population over the weekend. Officials said there also were no signs of an economic block­ade by Moscow. 
Doctors fear risky heart attack drugs 
NEW OHLEANS (AI') -Many 
lwart attad victims an~ lwing 
denied life-saving new treat­
ment because doctors fear tlwy 
will be suPd if thPir patients 
sutTer strokes, a ran~ but dev­
astating complication of tlw 
llwrapy, specialists say. 
New dot-dissolving nwdieinns can literally stop a heart attack if given within a few hours after tlw start of chest pains. But many heart doetors believe this treatment has been too slow to catch on in the United States. 
Ileart attack victims often 
wail too long before going to 
the hospital to be able to bene­
fit from the trealmf)nt. 
Ilowever, many others don't gel 
the nwdieine even when they ar­
rive at the emergency room in 
time. 
The reasons vary, but some advocatns of aggressive trnat­ment say their colleagues' fear of malpractice suits has played an important role. 
"This has been one of the main impediments to the prolif­eration of treatment in the United States," said Dr. Hobert Califf of Duke University. 
Califf raised the issue at this week's meeting of the American College of Cardiology. Many other heart specialists said they 
agn~ed. 
"There is no doubt in my mind that it af'f'ects physicians' choice of tlwrapy," said l>r. Wi IIi am Smith of Tu Iarw University. "The fear of law­suits is wal." 
Wlwn all goes well. the new drugs, known as thrombolytic agents, clearly save lives. A lwart attaek usually oeeurs when a blood dot gets stuek in the art1~rins that fend the !wart. Within a few hours, a seetion of thn heart muscle dies. 
But if given quickly, the drugs n111 dissolve thn dot, preventing most of the damage. In studies, tlw treatment typieally has re­duced the heart attaek death ratn from 12 percent to six 
ereent. 
+ 
American 
Red Cross 

is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Accounts Payable Manager Accounts Receivable Manager Purchasing Manager 
for more information contact Kathleen O'Connor at 239-7471 or 283-2570 
Dear Nursing Boards 
booster, 
(Excerpts from actual letters* 
Stanley H. Kaplan has received from 
satisfied NCLEX-prep takers.) 
"Not passing the NCLEX the first time was the worst thingto happen to me... taking Kaplan was the best thing fve ever done ... " 
-Studentfrom Berkeley, California 
I feel that your nursing program is solely responsible for my 550 point increase ... " -Studentfrom Binningham, Alabama 
"I hadn't studied for my first NCLEX and did not pass. 
Kaplan really motivated me to study hard to achieve a 
passing score the second time around ... " 
-Studentfrom NewYork City, NewYork 
No one but Kaplan gives you small classes led by ex­perienced nurses, and a tape review series. So ifyou want the bestand most experienced in test prep, do what these RNs did. Call Kaplan! 
'If YOU'D UKt TORE AD MORE LETTERS liKE THESE, 

I~KAPLAN
COME VI51TUS 

STANL£Y H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONlL ctNTER LTD. 
17 17 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 

CONTINUOUS REGISTRATION until the day before each session begins. REGISTER NOW! 
DAY and EVENING CLASSES 
w~tlnestlav. 
e 
\1a1· :w to \Vednestla1·. 
June 27 
Fritlay. June 29 to 
:vlontla~·. 
Julv :m 

• 
Wednestla1·. May :lO to .'vlontl<tl'. July :10 
GRADUATE and UNDERGRADUATE COURSES 
BUSINESS 
ENGINEERING MATHEMATICS 
COMPUTER SCIENCE NATURAL SCIENCE LIBRARY SCIENCE 
THE ARTS LANGUAGES COUNSELING 
EDUCATION HUMANITIES 
NURSING 

For summer Bulletin, write SUMMER SESSIONS OFFICE Or. Lf you prefer, call 
(215)645-4320 
--.,
r------------­
1V!LLANOVA UNIVERSITY-Summer Sessions Office 
I
Villanova, PA 19085I Please mail me acurrent Summer Bulletm I 
I I 
Name I I I Address I 
I I
1 Crty/State/Zip 
I 
L------------------~ 
Wednesday. March 21. 1990 The Observer page 7 
Census workers strive to make homeless people count 
(AI')-A legion ot clipboard­toting countnrs set out Tuesday for shelters, subways and steam grates in tho broadest attempt IWPr to find out the extPnt of honwlessness sine1~ it lwramP a national -disgrace in tlw I<JHOs. 
No otw expects tlw $2.7 mil­lion. otw-night U.S. Census Bureau PITort to yield a precise tally of ,\mPrirans with no fixed addrPss. Critics fPar an under­t·ounl will discourage tlw gov­Prnnwnt from housing and f(~eding till' homnless. 
"It's akin to looking for two­diPs in haystacks," said David llayden. foundPr of tlw advo­eacy group .I ustic1~ llousn Community in suburban Washington. D.C. "If people with dipboards can lind them. so can people with 2-by-4s who want to rob them. They should spnnd the money on decent, af­fordable housing." 
But the Census Bureau has 
hin•d 15,000 enumerators ­
the federal euphemism for 
lwadeounters -to find the 
homeless in their untidy world 
of shelters, roosts and hide­
outs. The government wants to know their name. age, sex, race and marital status. 
It's part of the constitutional mandate for the country to take stock of itself every ten years and a throwback to the days when the count was done 

A handful of demonstrators gathered near the Commerce Department in Washington yesterday near an eight ton pile of sand that was dumped in the street at the start of rush hour. The group, the Community for Cre­ative Non-Violence, was protesting the U.S. Census Bureau's attempt to count the homeless last night. 
with personal interviews in­Meyer, assistant regional cen­stead of computerized mailings. sus manager in New York. Estimates of the homeless "This may give us the fir.st population now range from 
handle on the magnitude of the 250,000 to 3 million. problem but not hecessarily the The counters, many of whom true size of it," said Kenneth are homeless and will be paid 

Former addicts win scholarships 
TAMPA. Fla. (AI') -llnr strugglP bark from cocainn and alrohol addiction bngan with a disgusted look in the mirror and tlw realization. 'Tm sick and tin•d of being sick and tin•d.'' 
With tlw hnlp of a college scholarship for reeovering ad-diets. the 37-year-old has pulll'd herself from those depths and in May will rnceivc a bachelor's degree in fine arts and mass communications. 
"Nobody was more ready to get sobnr than I was," said the scholarship winner, who uses the pseudonym Annie. "This is just what I needed to get back on track. Since coming back to school. I've blossomed." 
AnniP is one or five rccowring ad diets or alcoholics who re­ceivn up to $1,000 a year to pursue a dngrne at the 
'-.ulllll1L'r lob.., 

Over 50.000 summer JOb opemngs at Resorts. Camps. Amusement Park~. Businesses. Cru1se L1nes. Ranches. and more tn the U.S.. Canada. 
Australia. and 20 other countnes. Complete d~rectory only $19.95. Don't wa1t !Ill after f1nals. Send to Summer Jobs. Drawer 38039. Colorado Spnngs_ CO 80937 
LIVING FAITH IN THE FAMILY 
(PART Ill OF THE SUNDAY SERIES EXPLORING ISSUES OF FAITH IN THE FAMILY SETTING) 
FAMILY RITUALS 
presented by Dr. Elaine Ramshaw 
(Assistant Professor ofPastoral Care and Counseling Methodist Theological School in Ohio) 
Every family needs to develop its own rituals to celebrate its 
life together. This program will examine the rituals that /read exist in our homes and discuss wa s to enrich family life by creating new celebrations tailored to each 
SUNDAY, MARCH 25TH Center for Continuing Education 1:30-4:30pm 
BABYSITIING WILL BE 

REGISTER FOR BAB SIT1!NG 
PROVIDED FOR DIFFERENT 

BY MARCH 21ST BY CALLINC 
AGE GROUPS. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY:239-5242 
$7.50 an hour, got six hours of training before hitting the streets. In New York City alone, 2,167 sites have been tagged as 
places where the homeless con­gregate. 
From 6 p.m. to midnight, the count was focused on shelters, armories, missions, church basements. flophouses and ho­tels charging less than $12 a night. 
A 2 a.m. to 4 a.m. phase ze­roed in on bus stations. all­night restaurants, subway cars, underpasses. bridges, railroad trestles, cars, bank maehmc vestibules. park benches, trash bins and other homeless hang­outs. 
In the third phase, lasting un­til about 8 a.m., counters were to interview people coming in and out of abandoned build­ings. For their own safety, the counters have been told not to enter the buildings. 
No sleeping person was sup­
posed  to  be  disturbed.  
Estimates of age,  race and sex  
would suffice.  

University of South Florida in Anonymous or Narcotics Tampa or one of its branch Anonymous. Like tlH• anony­campuses. mous benefactor. tlwy also 
In its second year, the must be from the Sarasota­"anonymous scholarship" -so Manatee County area. called because it assures Recipients have to maintain a anonymity for those involved-2.5 grade-point average and was the idea of a recovering at-provide documentation that coholic. they arn staying clean and 
"People in recovery programs sober. like Alcoholics Anonymous are Six people got scholarships taught to pass on their sobriety the first year, and five were re­-this was the donor's way," newed. The sixth did not meet said Lester Aldheizer. a devel-the requirements. Aldheizer opment officer at the Sarasota said. refusing to elaborate. campus. 
"He began helping other re­"Anonymity is critical to re­covering alcoholics finance covering people," she said. their education on an individual "Their addiction is a very basis," Aldheizer said in a tele­touchy subject. Even when peo­phone interview. "lie then came ple apply for the scholarship to us and asked to make it a and arc not aceepted, all their formal scholarship program." documentation is destroyed." 
Spokesmen at the New York_ headquarters of Alcoholics But it may seem that a· college Anonymous and the National campus, brimming with party­Council on Alcoholism said they ing young people, would be one were unaware of any other of the worst places for a recov­scholarship programs specifi­ering addict. However, Pete cally for recovering alcoholics Fazio, a financial aid counselor or drug addicts. at Sarasota. says it's not a 
Scholarship candidates must problem. be full-time, degree-seeking students who have b1~en sober "They'rn quite a bit older be­at least two years and partici­cause they've already done pate in a 12-step recovery pro­quite a bit of living," said gram. such as Alcoholics Fazio. 
TOWNHOUSES 
FOR RENT 
2,3,4,5 BEDROOM APTS. AVAILABLE 
Less than 1 mile from NOTRE DAME 
FEATURES INCLUDE: Security Systems Basements Rear Yards Washer & Dryer New Construction Good Neighborhood Dishwashers 
call 

232-8256 
Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, March 21, 1990 
~Ihe _Obse.:ver~= 
P0 Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219} 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks ~Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
NMn Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert lpor1a Edlt01 ..................... Greg Gulley Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accent Edttor ................. Colleen Cron1n Sywtema Mgr .... Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..... , ............... Dan Shinnick s.lnt Mllry'a EdltOf' ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chns Anderson 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre O.me du lac and Samt Mary's College It does not necessarily rellect the pollctes o1 the actmmistrat1on 01 lllfher onsl!tutoon. The news os reported as accurately and obtec~vely as possible. Un519f1ed editonals represent the opmoon of the majOf'lty ,llf the Edotor-on-Choef. Managmg Edotor. News Editor. Voewpoont Edotor. Aa:ent Edltor. Photo Ed•tor. end Samt Mary·s Edotor Commentanes. letters and lnsode CaiMmn preS811t the Yoews ol the authors. Column space os avaolable to all members at tne· communtty and the tree expressoon ol vary1ng op1mons on campus through lettere, IS encouraged 


LETTERS 

Campus clubs deserve priority over other _outside organizations 
Dear Editor: On March 3, SUB was again Dame's own dubs? It comes as I am writing this letter in 
contacted. Irish Accent had to a complete s11rprise to me that. regard to the support, or lack start advertising and was in all of Notre Dame's history. thereof, that is given to campus beginning to run low on funds. as far as I know, only-two 
clubs and organizations. In However, when approached, dinner theatrns have ever been particular, I would like to refer SUB told us they would not performed on campus and they 
to the Student Union Board's provide any funding unless we were both scheduled for the treatment of the club I am most changed the date of our same weekend in March, 1990. Dear Editor: troops are. once more, in acquainted _with: Irish Accent. performance. It turns out, they SUB even went so far as to ask decided to bring in a us to perform after the
Many thanks to Mary Ann someone else's country and, At the beginning of the school professional dinner theatre professional troupe so thatHennessey for her challenging once more, injustice and brutal­year. our members discussed troupe from off campus for the they could be the first dinnerarticle "All Irish eyes won't be ity are pervasive. 
the projects we would like to same weekend we were theatre on campus rather thansmiling on St. Pat's Day"(The 
attempt this year. A dinner performing (even though we a campus-supported
Observer, March 9). Ms. Should even a fraction of the theatre was one of the projects had informed them of the date organization'? theatre.
Hennessey correctly laments forty million Irish-Americans we decided to put together. of our performance before athe apathy and ignorance of express their concerns to the However, the amount of money contract was signed with this One would think that
Irish-Americans concerning Congress and the President 
required for such a project was professional troupe). Because members of the Notre DameIreland's history and its cur­concerning discrimination and above our spending we had already committed community would support onerent difficulties. oppression in Northern Ireland, 
capabilities. We therefore ourselves to a weekend, it another in their endeavors.
I agree with her comments then the day of resolution contacted SUB to see if they became too difficult to merely Instead, SUB has only made itabout British injustices. It is would have been brought would help us fund this project. change weekends. Thus, Irish more difficult for organizationsparadoxical that England, a closer. A politician reacts when After speaking to SUB, the Accent was left with only a like Irish Accent to attempt nnwnation that has successfully his tenure or his treasury are group told Irish Accent one of broken promise and no outside projects.
masqueraded so long as wholly affected. We can be effective in 
its committees would help out funding.
civilized, has consistently bringing justice to Northern 
with the funding. At the end of
caused a variety of barbarisms Ireland by being articulate with January, the initial planning But this problem is onlyaround the globe and today in the Congress and the President. 
was completed, and auditions secondary to the main issue at Timothy J. FarishNorthern Ireland continues the took place. Soon, the dinner stake. Should outside Vice-President 
same practice of incivility. Robert 0. Murphy 
theatre was moving forward at organizations garner more of Irish AccentPerhaps someone should point 
Granger. Indiana 

full speed. respect and support than Notre March 8, 1990
out to Mrs. Thatcher that her March 15, 1990 
Spike Lee accurately depicts life in New York inner cities 
Dear Editor: thought. First of all, to deny same movie ... " Well, I would "I wonder what it's like to be was it absurd, but also 
I am responding to Mr. Sean that an disproportionate like to point out that a white black." I do not think they will downright rude. If F~ttlwr O'Brien's article, "Anti-White amount of police brutality person will never know what it ever be unproud of their Malloy had uttnred the same prejudiees revealed in dirnctor occurs concerning African is likP. to live in a black person's heritage as some of my rmnarks, I wond1!r if O'Brien 
Spike Lee's movie journal" (The Americans and white police shoes. One can have all the brothers and sisters an~ would have said the same thing Obsl!rver. March 6). O'Brien officers would be rather black friends one wants, read· unproud of tlwirs. to him. fe1ds that Spike Lee has unjustly "absurd." In fact. to think that millions of books, participate in portraynd life in thn inner more whites are killed every many Urban Plunge programs, O'Brien says his remark Mr. O'Brien should considPr cities. lie feels that Spike Lee is year by a black rather than the etc. But the fact mmains that a about Spike Lee's movie journal his own words morn carefully a racist and that his vision other way around is even more white person will never was not absurd. and indeed it before criticizing anyone ol' about the "realities" of life in absurd. A book called The experience some of the may not have been. But I do being a radst. New York City is undear. lie Statistical Abstract of the prejudice towards African remember another rather feels ups1~t because Spike Lee United ,.,'tales contains a lot of Americans that occurs in many "absurd" remark. O'Brien capitalizes Blaek instead of inform:ttion on this score. facets of our society everyday. addressed the Director of white. O'Brien feels upset They will not know what it is Minority Affairs with this because another gentlemen Secondly. O'Brien says that like to be rejected from a job question, "Man what the f--­made an absurd remark about some of Mr. Silk's observations simply because of the color of have you been smokin'?" What Russell L Jones him. about the movie makes one their skin. They will probably kind of respect is that to show Pangborn //all 
Here is some food for "wonder whether he saw the never hear a little white kid say, a University official? Not only March 7, 1990 DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Listen, buds, it's March twenty­first; Don't you know enough to burst?' 
Ogden Nash (1902-1971) 


---~--~--~-------------­
Accent 
Wednesday, March 21, 1990 page 9 

Irish Accent Presents... 
'See How They Run' 
ELIZABETH VIDA 
accent writer 

One of the problems that de­velops at a university which loves tradition is that everything inevitably gets old. Weekends offer nothing new, and even parties, though hard to believe, can become a little boring. But this weekend there is something new to do: Irish Accent is putting on a dinner theater show. "See How They Hun," at North Dining Hall on Friday and Saturday nights. 
The farce. written by Philip King, will be the first dinner theater production offered on campus. Tim Farish and Doug Heberle, co-founders of Irish Accent. the theater/comedy troupe, began thinking of putting on a dinner theater show in December. Said Farish. "Our motto is, 'We do it all'-we're always looking for something new on campus." Kathryn Graham. a member of Irish Accent, picked out the play and also directed it. 
Farish describes "Sen !low They Hun" as a "'Three's Company' episode gone mad." It's set in an English vic.arage, and the humor rnsults from mistaken identity. A priest is supposed to come to the vicarage to give a sermon. but by mistake, another is sent to that same vicarage. A bishop also finds his way to the vicarage on the same day. And if three priests aren't enough, a runaway Hussian soldier and his sergeant also put on the vestments as the play turns into a chase where all nine actors try to figure out who's who. Although the play is set in England, Irish Accent decided, in Farish's words, to "leave the accents to Communications and Theater." 
The staging is a version of theater in the round-three faces and a wall. "It posed problems for blocking and directing," Farish explained. The far north room of North Dining Hall will be used; the salad and condiment bar was taken out. The dinner itself will be entirely catered, and in buffet style. Friday night a Lenten menu of cod and ravioli will be served, and Safurday night, Beef Stroganoff. Before the show, actors will serve water and coffee. The doors open at 6:00 p.m., and the play begins at 7:00. Tickets are eight dollars for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, twelve dollars for non-students, and are available at the Information Desk at LaFortune only until 6 
p.m. Wednesday night. Farish encourages everyone to go and enjoy the show, adding,"lt would be an incredible date-there's nothing like it on campus." 
The Observerff. Patrick Kusek During the dress rehearsal, Irish Accent cast members of "See How They Run" try to perfect their performances for their upcoming dinner theatre debut on Friday March 23 and Saturday March 24. 
Please, Mr. Postman, is there a letter for me? 
Well. Spring has bePn cele­brat!~d in tlw famous and traditional South Bend fashion -sub-zero tPmpPraturns and light snow, so I guess the school year is grinding slowly to a halt. But that doesn't change the fact that I get no mail. 
It's a little-known law of nature that if you check your mailbox more often you're more likely to get mail. This is, by the way. very closely related to the better publicized (and more hyphenated) Push­the-elevator-button-more­times-so-it'll-come-faster Theory. So I've been opening that little box live times a day searching for correspondence. All I usually lind is another letter for my roommate, who seems to be single-handedly supporting the United States Postal Service. judging by the number of times he gets mail. 
I don't get much mail at the Observer, either. It's gotten so bad that I have to write columns using fake letters. But I gave that up in hopes of writing something that would elicit more enthusiastic reader response. And so, in the last "Lion Taming," I made mention that my hair was perhaps not the Taj Mahal of bouffants. 
Well, let's just say that I haven't exactly been over­whelmed by letters of appre­ciation for this journalistic masterpiece or even deluged with Hallmark cards bearing sympathetic verse: "So sorry to hear/ about your hair/ it looks like you/ confused sham­poo with Nair." 
lan Mitchell 
Lion Taming 
I mean it's not as if P.O. Box Q was flooded with letters begging, "All right, enough of this coverage of weighty world issues, I want to hear more about Ian's hair!" In fact, in a random telephone poll I conducted very late last night, when asked "what do you think of my hair?" four out of live people replied "who is this?", and an additional live percent simply introduced me to Mr. Dial Tone a little earlier than I had anticipated. So perhaps there isn't exactly a pressing public demand for more articles about my hair­cut. 
But this week's column isn't about hair, it's about mail. (Yes, it really is -just go back and check, I'll wait.) Or rather, it's about the lack thereof. As in, I don't get any mail. It's not just that my so­called friends at other uni­versities don't write often enough, my parents don't even want to talk to me. Freshman year they sent care packages on an almost-weekly basis. But things have changed, and now, well, here's an actual transcript of a recent tele­phone conversation: 
Mother: Hello? 
Me: Hi mom! 
Mother: Who is this? 
Me: It's me, mom -your son! 
Mother: How did you get this number? Who told you where we moved? 
All right, so maybe this isn't an actual transcript, it's a "dramatic re-creation." (This is a journalistic code phrase meaning: "It's a lie. I made it up.") But the point of all this remains the same. Checking the mail has become a daily ritual ending in an eventual disappointment. If things get too bleak, I'm thinking of over­charging my credit card just so the folks at Citibank will write me nasty notes threatening my credit rating. 
But maybe my luck is changing; why, just the other day I got a letter. Okay, so it was mistakenly put in someone else's box and addressed to "resident." At least it's a start. 

The Observer Wednesday. March 21. 1990
page 10 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from t2:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
I NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 EXPERT TYPING $3.PG 291·3829 NEED EXTRA MONEY? SPARE TIME? Nat1onal marketmg f1rm offers part·t1me pos1tion posting promot1onal matenal on campus. Call Jen Schafer at 800-592-2121 WORDPROCESSfNG 272-1837 MAIL BOXES ETC. Sh1pping. Packagmg. Cop1es. Resumes from $15.00. 277-MAIL INSTATAX· Get Your Tax Relund 1n 3 Days to 2 Weeks I MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 $$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS I PANDORA'S BOOKS Corner of NO ave and Howard 233-2342  CAMP STAFF: 21 +.Coed. sleepaway camp. Massachusetts. Some key pos1t1ons avml. Also: WSI. lifeguard. arts & crafts. all land and water sports. fitness. gymnastics. plano. play for shows. drama. jUdo. dance. tenniS. archery. photography. computers. model rocketry. gUitar. rad1o. v1deo. yearbook. newspaper. wilderness. woodwork. RN typist. 6 18-8 20. CAMP EMERSON. 5 Brassie Rd. Eastchester. NY t 0707. 8001955-CAMP. SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE ENVIRONMENT Earn $2.500­$3.500. National campa1gn pos1t1ons to pass Clean A1r Act. stop toxic pollution. t1ghten pest1C1de controls & promote comprehensive recycling. Available 1n 18 states & D.C. Call Kate at 1-800-75-EARTH ATTENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS I $32.000tyear income potential. Details. (t) 602­838-8885 Bk6262  SUIIIIIIERJOBS SELORS-Boys~. W. Mass. I Gills Camp, Maine Top Salary, Rm/Bdii..J!undry. Travel Allowance. Must love kids and have skiU in one of the following activities: Archery, Arts & Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, Cheolrfeading, Dance, Drama, Drums, Fencing, Goff, ·ar. Gymnastics, Hockey, Horseback. Karate, Lacrosse. Nature, Nurses, Phomgraphy, Piano, Aa<f10, Rocketry, Ropes, Sailboarding, Sailing, ~ Soccer, Tennis, Tracf<,-WSI, Waterski, Weights, Wood. Men call or write: ~ WlnaOO, 5 Glen Lane, :.'.amaroneck, N.Y. 10543 (914) 381-S~:i-Women call or write:~ Vega. P.O. Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332 617 934-6536. COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE Outstanding brother (Winaukee)iSister (Robindel) sports camps -22 mile lake near "On Golden Pond" site seek staff. Transp. pa1d. Interviews avail. on Thurs .. Mar. 22 at LaFortune (1 Oam-2pm).  FOR SALE ATTENTION· GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords. Mercedes. Corvettes. Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-602-838-8885 Ext.A6262 Del1gh1ful 2 story bnck home located close to Notre Dame mcludes fam1iy room with fireplace. livmg room w1th fireplace. dinmg room. eat-1n kitchen. 3 bedrooms. 2 car garage. For more mformation call Manlyn Kuller 255-5858 or 234-6325. Super execut1ve home. lormal living and din~ng areas. cathedral ceilings. two story fireplace. hardwood floors. bay window. f<~mliy room. 3 or 4 bedrooms. great location close to shopp1ng and Notre Dame. For more details call Manlyn Kuller 255-5858 or 234-6325. FOR SALEIIII Emerson STEREO: dual cassette. turntable. AM FM rad1o & speakers. Will sell CHEAPIII Best offer. Call Shannon at 2469.  Parrot Heads Forever 111 STUDENTS.. JUST DO ITIIIII Take advantage of student discounts on IBM PS. 2's. Vis1t the NO Compuler Store for more deta1ls. Groups or indiVIduals make BIG money selling comical or patnot1c Tee sh1rts to lellow students. Call 1-214-442-1516. $5.00 HAIRCUTSIIIIIIIIIIII! Vito's Barbershop 1523 Lmcolnway West  ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE POOR GLARES. 1175 N COUNTY RD. 300 W. KOKOMO. IN 46901. ONLY NERDS WEAR YELLOW BASEBALL CAPS-USUALLY TO COVER liP THE HAIR THEY HAVEN'T WASHED IN WEEKS ONLY BIGGER NERDS HAVE NEVER SEEN "THE WIZARD OF QZI" GEEEEEZ' GET A LIFE' R1de the WINDY CITY SHUTTLE 1111s Salurday to Ch1cago1 Tickets at lnformat1on Desk 1n LaFortune Do you have what 11 takes to be a manager? Well. apply tor bUiidmg manager posit1ons for LaFortune and Stepan. Job applications at lnlorma11on Desk 1n LaFortune. Deadline IS March 23. Top 'F1fteen Quotes From Joe's Sect1on  
LOST/FOUND Lost: one pair of men's suit pants. Dark blue. w1th red stripes Any info call Tom at 234-9728. REWARD LOST ·Gold nng w1th Ruby. Great sentimental Value. Please. return to N1ck . x5208 or 277-7236. Reward. FOUND: piece of 1ewelry in Holiday Inn on Rt. 31 dunng JPW. call John X1583 to identify FOUND; LIFTED -BASKETBALL ON STEPAN COURTS ON FRI MARCH 2. I TOOK IT BY ACCIDENT. REALLY. CALL X1436 TO ID AND CLAIM. Lost: Ladles Brown leather glove lined. Between Morns Inn and Walsh. Call James Purcell collect 1-923-4238 LOST LONG BLUE WINTER COAT WITH HOOD. CONTAINS KEYS & SHADES IN POCKET. PLEASE CALL KURT 3308. LOST...diamond and sapphire nng H1gh sentimental value .. ''"reward'"""'' Call Debb1e #2935.  CAMPUS PAINTERS NOW NEEDED: A ride to BALL STATE HIRING NOVICE AND any weekend-ext 1938 EXPERIENCED PAINTERS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER Female graduate student wanted HOUSE PAINTING IN CHICAGO to houseSI! and be a companion to NORTH SUBURBS. CALL TO a lucid. healthy 86 year old woman ARRANGE AN INTERVIEW wh1le family is away in mld-Apnl. 7081475-3439. MAILING Per d1em. Will not interfere with ADDRESS IS: 2901 CENlRAL classes. No housework. Own STREET EVANSTON. IL 60201. transportation needed or use bus. Please send name. telephone numbl?r. and some information about yourself to: lnd1ana TrustCompanion P 0. Box 5149 FOR RENT )Mishawaka. IN 46545 SUBLET'''SUBLET"'SUBLET ??Staying for lhe summer?? Sublet a Turtle Creek apartment RIDE NEEDED to U of Dayton this for the summer of wknd or any other $$$John x 1502 '9011 Living on campus for the summer IS the "blaaas." not to mention expensive! Help us and ~-·•••••••••••IIIIo. we'll help you!! Call Kelly at 4985 or .Julie at 287-9378' BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRYHELP WANTED 219-291-7153 Chicago Tour Boat SUMMER RENTAL.Home nearCompany campus. Secunty system.272­specializing in 6306 educational tours is FURNISHED 6-BDRM .. 2-BATH SECURE HOME. 1021 DEMAUDE.in search of articulate CALL 234-6688 OR 234-5041. and service-oriented LARGE FOUR BEDROOM HOME individuals who seek a COMPLETELY FURNISHED.  HARTER HEIGHTS HOME -NEAR NO GOLF COURSE -FOR SALE LOVELY. 3 BDR+. SUN ROOM. . FAMILY ROOM. MANY EXTRAS PAT 239 5080. 287 9341 '79 PLYMOUTH VOLARE good condit1on.V8.a1r. 65.000 m. $1700. Call271-8309. Hey Seniors. Tell your parents to order all tour GRADUATION TICKETS. Because I need 4 extra tickets and will pay CASH for any seat anywhere. So after break call me at 256-9374 and get your mula. I Need Gradua11on T1ckets. Willing to pay $$. Call Craig at x31 00. Graduatmg Students from the Bay Area: Plane t1cket. May15. one way. SFO to S Bend. best ofr. 277-5745. lv. msg. I NEED GRAD TKTS $$DAVE P. 3270 Help' My parents w1ll kill me it I don't get two extra tickets for graduation. I'm Willing to pay whatever I can for them. Call Michael at x3260. BEAUX ARTSIII THE GROOVE Ill  South Bend 233-4767 RAMADA INN of Elkhart has rooms for Graduat1on weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92. Elkhart (12 m1ies from South Bend). Mm1mum stay 2 n~ghts with $100 depos1t per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd .. Elkhart. IN 46514 CARING. CHILDLESS COUPLE DESPERATELY WISHES TO SHARE OUR LIFE. HOME AND MUCH LOVE WITH YOUR WHITE NEWBORN LET US HELP EACH OTHER REALIZE OUR DREAMS EXPENSES PAID. PLEASE CALL KATHY AND LARRY COLLECT AT (201) 635·1307. BIGAIRIIIIIIII ,IUNIORS. JUNIORS. JUNIORS PREPARING FOR YOUR JOB SEARCH" PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00PM IN 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL ARE ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND JUNIORS. JUNIORS. JUNIORS "PREPARING FOR YOUR JOB SEARCH" PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TONIGHT AT 7:00PM IN 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL ARE ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND.  15 What's up. b ? ·Brannigan 14 Hey. you guys want to go to dmner 1n. say. ten mmutes? Deane. at 4:34 13. I am ln1go Montoya ·Roact1 t 2. Have another ·McMahon t 1 Slappa ·Sm1th 10. Look. Mummy !here's a pengu1n on the teleVISion McCann 9. I used to have a s1ngle -Garc1a 8 What1s FISH UPS? Flood 7 Ton1ght you d1e. RA1 Roach 6. Leave the room and try that agam. -Bucolo 5. Bucolo. get lhe hell oul of my room. ·Runlz 4. You're a hall bum. -Eihs 3 Well I suppose nobody sends you anything. -Drey 2 I can do more lhmgs w1th my than you can do w1lh S1lly Putty. Posey Yeah. so? ·Huber I Need 5 graduallon t1ckets Will Pay 1 CalliNG RID #3461 BEAUX ARTS UNDERGROUND ........................................................................  
LOST: H.S. CLASS RING. ON NORTH QUAD BY NOH. REWARD. SEAN 2073  learning/working experience.  AVAILABLE FOR JUNE OR AUGUST. 234-9364. HOUSE FOR RENT  MARCH 3111! ONLY 400 TIXIII  JUNIORS. JUNIORS. JUNIORS "PREPARING FOR YOUR JOB SEARCH" PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER  Amy Thomas, is it true you are engaged? because I crave you more than  
Found:Men's Timex watch outside Holy Cross Hall to claim call x4174.  Please respond in writing only to:  WALKING DISTANCE FROM NO 232-3616  PERSONALS  AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TONIGHT AT 7:00PM IN 127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL ARE ENCOURAGED TO  double -stuffed oreo cookies The BIG BOSS MAN Please Reply  
Lost: Brown wallet if found call x4174 Thanks. Lost: small green stenographer's notebook was left in South Dimng Hall has Italian notes in it. call x4174. MISSING Missing from North Dinmg Hall: grey Jansport backpack Please return. No questions asked. JACQUIE CALHOUN x4959 WANTED \ OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000  Chicago From The Lake, Ltd. 455 East Illinois St., Suite 361 Chicago, IL 60611 Attn: Kevin Kirkland EXCEPTIONAL SUMMER OPPORTUNITY--Be a counselor at CAMP WAYNE, Northeastern Pennsylvania, 2/12 hours from New York City. co-ed 6123-8121. Salary plus travel allowance and room and board. Option for pre­ TOWNHUU~I::~ FOR RENT 2,3,4 AND 5 BEDROOM APTS. AVALIABLE LESS THAN 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME FEATURES INCLUDE: Security systems, basements, rear yards, washer & dryer, new construction, good tleighborhood,dishwasher . CALL 232 -8256 HOUSE FOR 1990-9t SCHOOL YEAR. FURNISHED. SECURE HOME. 5 BDRM. WiD. CLOSE TO NO. COMPETITIVE RENT. 1-264­6010.  SENIORS I BARNABY'S I $4 for all you can eat. TONIGHT-need we say more? SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL LAST BID SALES WED. MARCH 21. 6-9 PM C'IRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE ''M GOING HOME ON 1-80 TO SF A.FTER SENIOR WEEK. RIDER WANTED FOR MOST/ALL THE WAY CALL 1436 BILL SENIORS GRADTIXS I need extras! Will pay $BIG BUCKS $ Call Margo x4189 IS THERE ANY QUESTION THAT BILL IS THE MOST HAPPENING DUDE IN THE MED. PROGRAM? Just ask SCRABBLE. The babes  ATTEND top 9 FUN quotes: 9. she's gomg out with him Just to get to me. 8. Believe me-i will marry ali. guaranteed. 7. i do my homework in Seclusion so people will think i'm naturally smart. 6. i'm going to hurT a lot of feelings at room-pick time. 5. i cAme. i saw. i conquered. 4. g~rLs find me much more attractive than you. 3. i'm alergic To molds and spores. 2. ah. yEs gentlemen. interhall hockey. 1. throughout this lenten season. let's not forget to say gRace. DROP DEAD AG'  UNDERGROUND SOME FAMOUS QUOTES FROM FORT LAUDERDALE ·Harumph. harumph ... •For $3.50. that's the best damn beer I ever had1•Stick-don't turn Sideways­we can't see you! •Gimme some of that Devon gel. •Narma must be 1n M1ke's garment bag. •D1d you hook up or were you just getting googly? •T1ppmg is not a city 1n China. •Parlez-vous ha1rpie? •How far is Koz's Iro-n here? •I can't say anything about Notre Dame 'cuz that lunatic loves the 'Canes too much' •If you're Catholic. then where's your beenie? ·They have short half. are Catholic. and look pathetic. I think I can trust them. •I think I'm g01ng stealthing for a wh1ie. •Now that's some FAB-U-PIEI  
mo.Summer. Yr. round. All  camp work starting 6/10. Warm,  dig him, the dudes want to be him  
....  Countries.AII fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04. Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. ATTENTION-HIRING! Government jobs-your area. $17.840-$69.485. Call t -602-838­8885. Ext. R.6262  fun family atmos. Specialists needed in all sports, waterfront. camping. computers, arts. Sign-up CPO, Hesburgh Library. Write Box 823, Lynbrook. NY 11563 or call 516-599-4562 SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  KNUTE ROCKNE'S HOUSE Summer Rental 415 bdrm. 2bth. furnished 913 Leland x4420 SUMMER SUBLET CHEAP Walk to campus. pool etc.. 2bdrms. call 277-7496  and everybody's mother wants him to be their son!!lllf! Perhaps you've seen him with those girly-men in the weight room. Of cours9 he puts them to shame-­He's BILU  •  Sorin Hall Election: Vote O'Connor and Smith and no one gets hurt Mass for seniors Chns Lamps and Carlos Petrozzi will be held in Dillon Chapel Thursday at 5 p.m.  Mountain Bike for sale. Top of the line Shwinn wt accessories. $250 must sell. Call291-29t8 after5. PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES THURSDAY AT CLUB 23 PRE-SWEAT ITCHIES  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  THURSDAY AT CLUB 23  
FISHING COMPANION WANTED RESPONSIBLE SINGLE MALE 20­ NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373  Wednesday! Men's Volleyball game at the ACC--a collection w111  RIGHT TO LIFE mtg 3/22 re  
30. IF YOU CAN AFFORD A FREE  INTERVIEWING IN LAFORTUNE  GRAD STUDENTS!  GET YOUR MEAT HOOKS INTO  be collected for Senior Chris  mterest in officer positions  
1 OR 2 WEEK FISHING VACATION JULY 7-21 CALL 272­ STUDENT CENTER WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28. 9 AM­ CLEAN 1-BDRM. APT. NEAR CAMPUS. KIT. & UTIL. FURN.  HIM NOW GIRLS. ASK THE GOOD DR. TO GIVE YOU A FREE  Lamps  7pm. NO rm. LaF Refreshments.  
9040.  4PM.  $330 MO. 234-9871.  EXAM. YOU WON'T REGRET IT'!  hiag  

•:  Get back in step with the  
•.  a cappella sounds of Regency~  
:  9:30 p.m. Thursday at  &~s  


Wednesday. March 21, 1990 Scoreboard page 11 
Get Dogged Over Break? 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Division w L x·NY Rangers 34 28 New Jersey 32 33 Washrngton 33 36 Pittsburgh 32 36 NY Islanders 29 36 Phrladelphia 29 
36 Adams Division x·Boston 43 24 x-Buffalo 40 
26 x·Montreal 39 26 x-Harttord 34 
32 Quebec 12 54 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norris Division W L x-St. Louis 36 30 x-Chicago 37 31 Toronto 36 35 Detroit 27 34 Minnesota 31 38 Smythe Division x-Calgary 39 21 x-Edmonton 35 27 x-Winnipeg 35 30 x-Los Angeles 32 35 Vancouver 23 40 
x-clinched playoff berth 
Tuesday's Games 
Wednesday's Games 
Late Game Not Included 
Washrngton 3. New York Islanders 0 Vancouver 4. Detroit 4. tie Philadelphra 3. New Jersey 2 Los Angeles at Minnesota. (n) 

I 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 
w L R:t Phrladelphra 41 
26 612 New York 39 26 .600 Boston 38 
26 .594 Washrngton 24 41 .369 New Jersey 15 
50 .231 Mrami 15 
52 .224 Central Division x-Detroit 50 
15 .769 Ch1cago 41 
22 .651 Mrlwaukee 35 
29 .547 Indiana 32 
34 .485 Atlanta 31 
34 .477 Cleveland 30 
34 469 Orlando 17 49 .258 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division 
w L R:t Utah 47 
19 7f2 San Anton10 43 
21 .672 Dallas 
35 29 547 Denver 35 30 
538 Houston 
31 34 477 M1nnesota 17 
47 .266 Charlotte 
11 52 175 Pacific Division 
L.A. Lakers 
48 16 750 Portland 47 
18 723 Phoemx 44 
20 688 Seattle 33 31 .516 Golden State 29 
35 453 L.A. Clrppers 26. 
39 .400 Sacramento 20 
45 308 x-clrnched playoff berth 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
PLAYER  MIN!AV  FG·FGA  FG%  FT·FTA  FT%  
Robrnson  847/29  168·356  472  101·128  .789  
Haysbert  362128  80·147  .544  21·37  .568  
Dav1s  938132  145-250  580  56·82  .683  
Nowlm  767126  137-271  .506  64-85  .753  
Liebscher  842130  1061206  515  56-74  757  
Kuhns  630122  90·190  474  9-10  .900  
Washrngton  687124  85-205  415  17-31  .548  
Frlzgerald  342112  45-87  5f7  20-29  .690  
Rupe  385113  39·70  .557  5-10  .500  

Total 5800 895·1782 .502 349·486 .718 1113/38.4 534 317 80 2193175.6 
Troy Wolkow. linebackers . Hockey League. 
•
: ILca1cdly lliril§llil IB3cal§Ikcefrlbcalllll • IB3aillilrm1!Jlcefr
. 
~ 

: 
: Sund~M~h25th 
e 2:00 pm Monogram Room 
: JAcc 
•
•
e Tickets may be purchased at the Women's 
:Basketball Office in the JACC through noon: e on Friday. e 
: $14.25 per person : 
• 
T 
12 
8 
5 
6 
10 
9 
7 8 9 7 7 
T 9 6 3 
13 
4 
14 13 
9 6 
13 
Pis  GF  GA  
80  253  244  
72  265  268  
71  270  261  
70  301  336  
68  261  271  
67  273  271  
93  265  215  
88  260  229  
87  270  217  
75  251  252  
31  223  372  
Pis  GF  GA  
81  278  249  
80  292  275  
75  313  331  
67  271  298  
66  253  267  
92  322  245  
83  292  263  
79  283  273  
70  313  309  
59  231  294  


Quebec at Hartford, 7:35p.m 
Calgary at Buffalo. 7:35p.m. Toronto at New York Rangers. 7:35p.m Montreal at Winnipeg. 8:30 p.m. St. Louis at Edmonton. 9:35p.m. 
Streak Won 1 Los14 
11/2 Won2 f6 Lost3 25 Lost? 26 Lost4 
Won 11 8 Wont 14 1/2 Won3 18 1/2 Won 1 19 Lost 1 19 1/2 Won 5 33 1/2 Won 1 
Streak ·Won 1 
3 Won2 11 Wont 11 1/2 Won 1 

15 1/2  Lost2  'First place seedmg  
29  Lost2  
34 1/2  Won 1  
TRANSACTIONS  
1 1/2 4 15 19 22 112 281/2  Won 1 Won 9 Lost! Won 1 Lost2 Lost 1 Lost!  BASEBALL American League NEW YORK YANKEE&-Agreed to terms with Oeion Sanders. outfielder. on a minor-league contract. National League SAN FRANCISCO GIANTs-Announced the  NEW YORK GIANTS-Named t,;harlre Weiss assistant coach. Signed Howard Feggins, cornerback. NEW YORK JET&-signed Mark Boyer. tight end; Carl Byrum. fullback; Jon Burman, tackle; and Irvin Smith. defensive back. PITISBURGH STEELERS-Signed Billy  
retirement of Mike Krukow. pitcher.  Owens, defensive back.  
BASKETBALL  Canadian Football League  
National Basketball Association  BRITISH COLUMBIA LION&-Traded Matt  
HOUSTON ROCKET&-Signed Lewrs Lloyd.  Dunigan. quarterback. to the Toronto Argonauts tor  
forward. for the remainder of the season.  Rick Johnson. quarterback: Jearld Baylis.  
REB/AVG  A  STL  BlK  PTS/AVG  NEW YORK KNICK&-Activated Kenny Walker. forward. from the injured list. Placed Greg  defensive tackle: Willie Pless and Tony Visco. linebackers: Emanuel Tolbert, slotback; and Todd  
67/2.3  137 62  2  437115.1  Butler. forward. on the injured list.  Wiseman. salety.  
43/3.3 233/8.0 217/7.5 14915.3 90/3.1 6212.1  21 24 59 57 22 23 99 41 62 22 114 67  3 9 21 2 7  181113.9 346111.9 338111.7 27219.7 226/7.8 198/6.8  FOOTBALL National Football League GREEN BAY PACKER&-Signed Mike No1seth. quarterback.  HOCKEY National Hockey League NEW YORK RANGER&-Agreed to terms with  
65/2.3  t5  12  4  112/4.0  Rick Bennett, lett wing  
93/3.2  5  9  28  83/2.9  KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Signed Tom Neville,  PHILADELPHIA FLYER&-Recalled Tony  
guard. and Tracy Rogers, Johnny Thomas and  Horacek, lett wing, from Hershey of the American  

=~~~~~~~~~=~~N~~~~~uB~====~~ 
e 
•: •
•e 

FINAL FOUR COUNTDOWN 1990 
2nd Round: Regionals Regionals 2nd Round: March 17-18 
March 17-18 

SOUTHEAST 

EAST 
Michigan State Connecticut 

.:::::.:~:i.~~;;;;_:l--~~~~.i.?.~-~-~-:ate 
-~·~-~~~~~~~-~~--[~~:::~:~:;.:::::. 

~ Clemson Clemson , ........................ 
..............~.:?.\-! .... Ge~;~~ )····................. 
.................... 
····················· 
La Salle
..0.E!~f!J!i!.!:~x~ .. 
························ 
Denver
New Orleans 

East Rutherford, N.J. Minnesota March 23 & 25 
March 31 
March 22 & 24 St. John's

.........................1 
Duke , ........................ Minnesota 
····················· 

...........~:.!?.~.~---....................) ..................... 
....!?.Y.~.E!............ 

Virgrnia .........................~ Syracuse 
UCLA , .... V.<;;hf.............

CHAMPIONSHIP ···················· GAME 
..................... .........~Y.ri!~~~.~.. 
...l<:i!r.?.\I.L....... 

Semifinal Winners
WEST MIDWEST 
Monday, April 2
UNLV Oklahoma 

.........................~ UNLV 

N?.~.~..?.~~~~~~.~--~ ....................... 
............Q.~!~.~!: . ......,.............1....................... 
.NRrlh.9.(1.[9.l.irm 
Ball State 

.........~~~:~~·,::~l---~~~~--~~~~~.. 
.~~~~'.'.'-······r::::: 

......................... Oakland, Calif. 
Dallas 
March 23 & 25 

March 22 & 24 Loyola (Cal.) Xavier 'Ohio)
~~Y.i.':'!..\~.~!~~-·1''"''''"')..........

···:···:··~:~~i~:~:~..f·~~:.~~.:..(.~~~:> 
..~.\!!?.'.9.\!.t.<?x~n ..
....................... 

....................... 
Alabama 

........................., Alabama 
!

···················· 
Arizona
......................... 
Srm>ENf 

GETACTIVE!! 
~ 
RECYCLE 
NOTRE DAME 
ttEcrrUII ltiiSN 

a planet is a terrible thing to waste 
•Aluminum e Newspapers e Glass For more information contact Paul Ruesch 277-6172, or call 239-7668 
Texas
I ....................... 
Texas 
..................... 
..P.l.mi~<~L ........
1 
AP 
NIT ROUNDUP 
Second Round Tuesday, March 20 Oklahoma St. (17-13) at New Mexico (18­12), 9:30 p.m. Wis.·Green Bay (24· 7) at St. Louis (18-11 ), 8:30 p.m. Cincinnati (20-13) at DePaul (19-14), 9 p.m. Long Beach St. (23-8) at Hawaii (24-9). 12:30 a.m. 
Third Round Wednesday, March 21 Penn State (23·8) at Rutgers (18-16). 7:30p.m. New Orleans (21·1 0) at Vanderbilt (18-14), 8:30 p.m. Thursday, March 22 Pairings TBA 
At Madison Square Garden New York Semifinals Monday, March 26 Pairings TBA, 7 and 9:30 p.m . 

page 12 The Observer 
Wednesday, March 21. 1990 

The DePaul Blue Demons, 
who couldn't make their point 
with the people who run the 
NCAA tournament, are making 
all the crucial points in the NIT 
Stephen Howard's bank shot 
with two seconds left gave 
DePaul a 61-59 victory over 
Cincinnati in a second-round 
NIT game Tuesday night, plus a 
44-game winning streak at 
Alumni IIall despite a 10-year 
interruption. 

David Booth led DePaul (20­
14) with 18 points, Kevin llolland added 15 and lloward had 13. Andre Tate led tlw Bearcats (20-14) with 17 points, Levertis Hobinson had 16 and Louis Banks I 5. 
l>el'aul won its last 42 games 
at its on-campus Alumni Half 
bnf'orn moving to the suburban 
Hosmnont Horizon in 1980. 
However, the Blue Demons 
couldn't play their NIT opener 
at the llorizon because of a 
previously booked soccer game 
and chosP to play at Alumni 
Hall on Tw~sday night, as well. 
In other second-round games Tuesday night, it was St. Louis 58, Wisconsin-Green Bay 54; New Mexico 90, Oklahoma State 88. 
DePaul trailed 56-54 after Banks hit a 15-footer with 3:37 left but Booth made a shot from the lane and Chuckie Murphy hit a 3-pointer to put the Blue Demons ahead 59-56 with 1:55 to play. 
Banks tied the game with 27 seconds left when he hit a driv­ing layup, was fouled by Booth and added the free throw. On DePaul's last possession, Murphy launched a :~-pointer that missed the rim but settled into Howard's hands. The sophomore banked the ball in for the victory. 
"That wasn't exactly the way we drew it up," Coach Joey Moyer said. "But we'll lake it, that's for sure. 
Your Mother lied! 
her distant advice continues all semester, but really-if you drink and drive, and wreck, and your guts are splattered on the road while your face sticks to the windshield, and witnesses vomit at the sight of you, nobody really notices your underwear. 
"There was supposed to be one more pass made to Terry Davis on the wing before work­ing the ball inside to Stephen Howard. But (Cincinnati) shut that pass off and Chuckie wound up with the shot. I'm not sure he wanted it that way, but Stephen followed it up." 
DePaul visits St. Louis for a third-round game Thursday night. 
continued from page 16 

Bayliss...Granted it didn't come at the best time but we can't expect them to go undefeated the entire season.The Alabama match was a barn burner. It should that our depth is very strong. It would have been a great match to win but things didn't go our way. We can still get in the NCAA Tournament. We control our own destiny. I 
LOYOLA
0 ; I <t:
>.~

t;: . C2 UNIVERSITY 
;p. 0 
_.. N 

CHICAGO
O...p~At. D~./-' 

THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 
offers an evening 
~BA 
Professionel education for positions of 1 eadership in the Jesuit tradition of excellence 
Now Accepting Applications For Summer & Fall Quarters 
For i nforma tlon, call 312-9 15-6 120 
Water Tower Campus 820 North Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60611 
Loyolo is an equal opportunity employer/educator 
thought they would. Now we have to begin our second sea­son. In the first part, we sur­prised some teams, but now we have set ourselves up as tar­gets." 
We can't be everywhere, let us know if something newsworthy happens. Call The Observer 
239-5303 

The Cellar 
is accepting applications for Manager and Assistant Managers 
Pick up applications in the Student Govt Office (2nd floor LaFortune) and return them by 5:00pm on March 26, 1990. 
Questions? Call Steve at 289-9710 or Molly at 239-8040 
ADWORKS 


FRESHMAN FRESHMAN FRESHMAN 
CONSULTING PERIOD MARCH 19-29, 1990 
AN OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE YOUR LAST MINUTE QUESTIONS ANSWERED BEFORE YOU MUST DECLARE YOU COLLEGE PROGRAM SEE THE MARCH FRESHMAN DEAN'S NEWSLETTER SCHEDULING DETAILS 
DONT MISS THE OPPORTUNITY 
FRESHMAN FRESHMAN 
F~ESHMAN 
---~ ~ ~ ---~ 
-~--~----------· ~-. 
Wednesday, March 21, 1990 The Observer page 13 
Hesburgh proposes to fix college sports 
LAS VEGAS -The former president of the University of Notre Dame says a commis­sion he is heading will develop a plan that will return integrity to college athletics. 
The Hev. Theodore Hesburgh says the plan would stress aca­demic and financial integrity as well as providing for an inde­pendent audit of each univer­sity's participation in the plan. 
Jlesburgh said the commis­sion, which the Knight Founda­tion of Ohio created to set a re­form agenda for college athlet­ics, already has the beginnings of a specific plan. 
The plan would focus on uni­versity presidents as the key people to bring about reform in intnrcollegiate sports. 
The plan involves three parts. 
One would be academic in­tegrity, with uniVfmdties refus­ing to admit students who do not stand a good chance of graduating. llesburgh sug­gested the graduation rate of athletPs at a particular univer­sity could be compared against that school's overall gradua­tion rate. 
Hesburgh, speaking at a news conference here Monday, said the academic provision could require some flexibility, since many state colleges are re­quired to admit students from their state who meet certain minimum guidelines. 
A second part of the plan would be fiscal integrity. Hes­burgh said money raised via athletics -whether it be ticket sales, television broadcasts or booster clubs -should be con­trolled by the university presi­dent. 
A third provision would be an annual independent audit to de­termine if colleges are following the rules. 
Hesburgh said he would rec­ommend that universities refuse to play schools that do not participate in the reform efforts. 
Hesburgh, 72, served as president of Notre Dame from 1952-87. lie was in Las Vegas for a weekend speech to the Notre Dame alumni club. 
rra®~~w ~ll ®U [ID~ [fl![fi)@l®w 
to Our Baby Bunny 

Carolyn 
Dad, Mom, Sue, Len, Jenny, Ben, Alice, Cherry, Jeanne, and Hugh 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 
SUMli1ER SESSIONS 1990 
PmKrams at Georgetown 
0 Over ZOO graduate and undergraduate courses 
0 Public Affairs Internships 
0 lligh School Programs 
0 I nterculrural Training 
D Interpretation and Translation Institute 0 I ,anguage Courses 0 Theology Conference 0 I ,iterarv Criticism Conference 0 Institute for H.S. Teachers 0 Institute on Sacred Scripture 0 Alumni College 0 English as a Foreign Language 0 llclping Families Cope: 
Ethical and Pastoral Care 
Issues in Generics 

Sessions 
Pre-!\lay 21-]une IS First-June 11-july 13 H-\\'eek Cross Session­
June 11-August3 Second-]ulv 16-August 17 

Name 
Programs Abroad 
0 0 
0 
0 0 
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 

Antwerp, Belgium-lnr'l. Trade China-Chinese Language and Culture Tours, France-Language and Culture Fiesole, Iralv-lralian Greece-Humanities Oxford, England-Comparative Business (undergraduate) Oxford, England-lnrernarional 1\lanagemenr (graduate) Quito, Ecuador-Spanish Trier, West Germany-German !\Iiddle Easr-H.S. Teachers Leningrad, USSR-Russian Language and Culture Dublin, lreland-l\lodern Irish Literature Leicester, England-Shakespeare 
Call (202) 687-5942 or mail to: SSCE-Georgetown University ."\06lnterculrural Center Washington, D.C. 20057 FAX: (202) 687-8954 
Address____________________ ________________ Zip_____ 
( ;,.,IIJ!.rlt16.."11 l ·,lt'rl':iity is till f'f/11111 ()ppmtmtityltlffinlltlfit•r t1r!im1 in.Vitlltimt i11 rmplfJ_\'IIIt'lll m1d fltlmissirJI/.'1. 
Items 
continued from page 16 
as head track coach Joe Piane claims, must be considered by right as the best junior cross country runner in the country. Although even Coyle admits that a few of the best junior runners in the nation did not attend the qualifier, he was the best on the most important day. And now he waits on for­eign soil to put his talents to an even more rigorous test. 
"This is a great opportunity for him," says Piane. "It is a wonderful opportunity not only to represent the U.S. but of course to represent Notre Dame. Now he has the oppor­tunity to race against the best in the world-runners from countries like Kenya, England, Scotland and France." 
How is this native of Lincroft, 
N.J. approaching a race that pits him against runners from approximately 40 other coun­tries, some of whose nations' names he may not be able to pronounce? If his words are any indication, he is handling it with the common sense of an athletic pragmatist. 
"I am excited about the whole thing," says Coyle. "I won't waste time worrying about the competition because I don't re­ally know about anyone and it's not a race which will be won on experience, since no one really has any in our age division. I think it will be the runners who can adapt the best that will do well." 
These opportunities come to Coyle after a disappointing fall season. He started the cross country season out of shape, and just as he was starting to get into a groove he fell sick, eliminating any hopes to partic­ipate in postseason races. Coming back this spring, you might say he was on a mission. 
"I felt I had something to prove, definitely. I don't think I ran to my potential at all dur­ing cross country," says Coyle. "I had something to prove to everyone, especially to myself. I had feelings that I could run the longer distances in college but I really hadn't broken through yet. Now maybe I can build on that." 
As Coyle builds, as he recon­structs his collegiate cross country career, his fans will be watching, even if the number of supporters may not fill even a section of the football stadium. 
And if, by chance, Coyle crosses the French finish line in front of the horde of interna­tional competitors, the Notre Dame community will become charged with energy, flock to the bus stop to welcome its newfound hero, hoist him on high and carry him back to his cluttered freshman double in St. Ed's Hall. 

Swimmers successful at NCAAs 
By JANICE ARCHER 
Sports Writer 
Last weekend, Tanya Williams and Becky Wood showed how far the Notre Dame women's swimming pro­gram has come when they par­ticipated in the NCAA Champi­onships, scoring points for the first time in the university's history. 
Williams, a freshman from Boca Raton, FL. and Wood, a junior from Olean, NY, were two of only 167 female swim­mers in the nation who quali­fied for the event. There were only 60 schools represented at the championships, and Notre Dame was one of just 40 who scored. 
Williams swam the 400-yard individual medley twice, setting a new university record with a time of 4:19.89. In this event, she placed 11th out of a field of 32 swimmers, enabling her to 
/ 


is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Representatives 
For more information contact Beth at 239-6900 or 283-2722 
~''--------------------------------------'~ 
The Nation's 

Over 100 Centers Nationwide Proven Preparation For The Bar Exams 

California  Florida  Massachusetts  New Mexico  Texas  
Colorado  lninois  Michigan  New York  Vermont  
Coonecticut Dis!. of Columbia  Maine Maryland  New Hampshil! New Jersey  Peoosylvania Rhode Island  Virginia  

STANLEY H. 

KAPIAN-SMH 
BAR REVIEW SERVICES 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 score the six points for the Irish. She also swam the 200 butterfly and her 200 individual medley time of 2:04.47 set an­other school record. 
"I am very pleased for Tanya," said Notre Dame head coach Tim Welsh. "It is exciting when an athlete of her quality comes into our program. She is one of the outstanding fresh­men in the country, and she showed it at the meet." 
Williams holds the university records for the three events she participated in in Austin, and swam season best times for these races during the champi­onship meet. 

Wood, who swam in the 200­yard breaststroke, placed 39th }yith a time of 2:21.34. It was the second best time of her ca­reer, and was an impressive achievement for her. Wood in­jured her knee in January, and only raced once, in the Eastern Intercollegiates in Baltimore on Feb 22-24, since the time she qualified for the NCAAs on De­
cember 8. 
"A knee injury is very serious 
to a breaststroke swimmer," 
Welsh said. "Her performance 
was remarkable, especially 
considering how little she has 
been able to compete. During 
the training before the NCAA's, 
she improved her time three 
seconds in only three weeks." 
The showing at the national 
championship has given the 
women's squad added confi­
dence, and a hopeful outlook 
for the future. 
"Returning from the meet 
raises our level of expectation. 
Now we know we can qualify, 
and this puts us in a stronger 
position," Welsh noted. "It was 
a very successful first step." 
It is very rare for a team to 
participate in the NCAA's for 
the first time and score, as did 
Notre Dame. 
"Usually, the first trip is a humbling one," said Welsh. "It was wonderful for us to score on this visit. Neither girl is done, because there is plenty more speed where that came from. We're ready to go back and score more points, with more girls, in more events." 
The championship was held at the University of Texas, in Austin. The 1988 Olympic trials were held at this site, making it one of the premier pools in the country. 
"It was a joy to be at this meet," Welsh commented. "The athletes, coaches and hosts were all wonderful to us. and we hope to return next year to the championships." 

........-----------~----~ ---~------------~----------------------­
r· 
Wednesday, March 21, 1990
page 14 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS

NO fencers qualify four weapons 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Wnter 

Tlw \:otrl' DamP fpnring l«'ams wrallJWd up tlw !\C.\.\ !\lidwf'sl Hf'gional tournanwnt by qualifying four wPapons for I hf' :'IJCA:\ Tournanwnt. whirh will takl' plat't' from \larrh 24­2H at Saint \lary's CoiiPgl'. 
Tlw mPn qualifit•d all thn•p wt•apons (f'JWf', sabn· and foil I. whilf' tlw \\'onwn qualilif'd only tlwir foil squad. In addition. 
almost f'\'l'r~· mPmlwr of tlw tf'am qualilil'd for tlw individual tournanwnt. 
Only Sl'nior I'Jlf'f'ist l>f'rl'k llolf'man failf'd to qwllil'y for tlw individual tournanwnl. llolf'nJan ''as lf'l't out lwnwsf' of a lark of NC:\:\ f'Jlf'l' lllf'f'LS during tlw sPason. llolt>nwn switrhf'd from foil to I'IJI'I' in midsPason in ordPr to strPngtlwn tlw !Pam's pPrfor­maJH'f' in tlw lattf'l'. 

"Thl' Pnlirl' !Pam is quilt• happy to haw qualiliPd all our squads." said foil raplain .lof'l Clark. "This is Pxartlv wlll'rl' WI' want to lw at this JJoint and it puts us in an f'Xl'I'IIPnt position to ronll'lHI for anotlwr !\C.\A 
Iiiii'... 

Traditional po\\'Prhousl' I'Pnn Stall' failf'd to quali(v its "P"" 
tPam. although it is likPIV that tlw Nittanv Lions will rl'rf'h·p an at largP bid in tlw l·:ast. 
Led by pitching,softball goes 4-5 
By RICHARD MATHURIN 
Sports Writer 

The womPn's softball tf'am recently completed a trip to Houston in which they com­peted with a number of quality opponP.ts and gained valuable expPrience. 
The Irish (4-71 went 4-5 on the trip which included wins against national power Temple and losses to Sam Houston State and Western Illinois. 
The last four games of the trip showpd extreme promise by the pitching staff while the offense has yet to catch up. 
The Irish swept a double­header from Pima Community College by sccm~s of 6-0 and 4-0 on Thursday, March 15. In the first shutout, sophomore Missy Linn controlled the game, yield­ing only six hits and one walk while strking out one for the complete game victory. In the bottom of the fourth, the Irish batted around the order and put up five runs. Two errors by Pima contributPd to the inning whirh fpatur<'d a double by 
sophmore Laura Sommerlad, which was the only extra base hit ·of the game. 
"We took advantage of every­thing they gave us," said Notre DamP coach Brian Boulac. 
The second game was also dominated by pitching, featur­ing a combined shoutout by winning pitcher Honny Alvarez and Staci Alford, who shut the door for the save. The Irish used one big inning again to knock off Pima. A three run fourth inning proved to bf' the decisive blow. Ruth Kmak led off with a walk and then pro­ceeded to steal second. Megan Fay delivered a single to score Kmak. Kathy Vernetti and Debbie Burnette added singles to account for the other two runs. 
On Saturday, the Irish split a doubleheader with Akron, los­ing the first 5-0, but coming back in the nightcap for a 1-0 victory. 
In the ooener. Missy Linn 

took thn ball and pklwd well, but experienced tough luck. Akron, which competed in the NCAA tournoment last year, was helpnd by two Irish errors that lnd to runs. Linn had live strikeouts , only one walk, and yielded only two earned runs. but tired towards the end of the game, allowing Akron to break through on the scoreboard. 
In the second game, Staci Al­ford was magnificent going all the way for the complete game shutout victory. She struck out four while allowing only two hits and ~ne base on balls. Freshman Lisa Miller, who was replaced the injurnd Fay in rightlield. drove in Honny Al­varez for the game's only run. 
"I expected that type of per­formance form her, " said Boulac referring to Alford's victory. 
"When you two hit a team like Akron, you gain a lot of mo­mentum," said Boulac. 
ND golfers struggle at meet over break . 
Special to the Observer 

Thn Notrf' Damn men's golf tnam placnd last in a finld of 1 X at tlw Budget/lJCF Golf Classic, which took place March 13-14 in Orlando. Florida. 
The Irish shot a total seore of 969 at thf' Hio l'inar Country Club in Orlando, finishing wf'll bnhind CP-ntral Florida. thn host school. which capturnd the tournament championship with X7X points. Arizona finished second with XX6 points. 
l;reshman Chris Dayton IPd the Notn~ Dame squad with a scorf' of 243 in his first colit~­giate tournament. Dayton said that the Irish were not discour­agnd by their last place finish because thny were competing against many of the elite teams in the nation. 
"Although we struggled throughout the tournament, we learned that the top teams are not that far ahead of us in skill or in talent. We realized that if we werf' able to play as often as 
Jay, 
mr)® W®l!1Hr [P)Qrrijflu@l®W"""" ~®®l!n[Ji])@ Uflu® [F)®©nun®au ®au@l U®~@ nu on~®®· [Ji])@ffi) ~ ~ 
From your straight roommates in 925 
, 

=-Ihe Obse&Ver. ~ 
is looking for: 
Ad Designers 
Must be creative and responsible. If interested, please contact Amy Eckert at 239-5303 or 283-3525. 
warns from tlw Sun lklt reg1on, we would be able to eompPtP on the same leVf~l with them." Day­ton said. 
Notre Dame eo-captains Pat Mohan and Paul Nolta finished just behind Dayton, as they each tallied a 245. Jon Dennen also posted a 245, and Mike O'Connell rounded out the Irish scorecard with a 249. 
Next up for the Irish is the Johnny Owens Invitational. whieh will be held in Lexington, Kentucky on March 29-31. 
WORLD 






Cheerleader and Leprechaun Tryouts will lw lwld this Fri­day and Saturday lwginning at 7:00p.m. in thn .1/\C:C l'it. All an• Wl'icOnH' to altPIHI. 
NVA Scuba Diving Course information night is \Vt>d .. \1arl'h 21 at tlw Hork rm. 21 H. 5::W p.m. ClassPs will Sundays l'rom :!::lO -7:00p.m .. \larrh 25 and i\pril I, X. 22 and 21J. 
SMC LaCrosse Team has pral'tin• today at -+:p.m.. \IPPt at .\ngPia Hnl' Ct•ntPr. lk prompt. 
Sign-ups for women's bookstore basketball will Ill' ht>ld :vlarl'h 2(> l'rom (>-1) p.m. in tlw Sorin Hoom of l.ahll·tunl' and tlw lobby of llaggar (SMU. Tlw fpn is $5.00 P~'~' !Pam. 
:\IVA Golf Pulling Cont('st sign-ups arP dw• by April 4. 
Rockne Spring Hours an• Mon.+ri. 7 a.m. to II p.m., and Sat.-Sun. 10 a.m. to II p.m. Swimming hours an• \llon.-h·i. 7-1) 
a.m. and noon-11 p.m., Sat.-Sun. 1-(> p.m. and 7-11 p.m. llm. 302 will bP opPn \lon.+ri. :{-IO::Hl p.m. and Sat.-Sun. noon­«Jp.m. 
Interested Sports Writers for tlw rPmaindPr of this war and nPxt fall should aiiPIHI tlw nPw sports \\TitPrs' llli'Pling IH'Xt \VpciJwsday. \1arl'h 2H at 7 p.m. at tlw ObsPrwr. 
\.'0'0,\<Q.
~0 
C)\{\CfJ~\\\'0. 

li/Jcfa 
Kelly 
t 

~· 
Jcnn 

and to all "Domers," 
You have all been so very special to us that we just wanted to send you all a very unique 'Thank You" for all of the fun times that we have had with you, both at Notre Dame and here in Anaheim. Your warmth, your friendliness, your kindness, as well as the same from your families, is a treasure that will always be with us. 
May God Keep and Bless You Always, and Thank You For lust Being You, 
Mr. and Mrs. "Bob" O'Brien 
AWARENESS SERIES PRESENTS 
The Struggle For 
JUSTICE 
WEDNESDAY • March 21, 1990 7:00pm and 9:00pm • Engineering Auditorium 
"Romero": afilm. I O:OOpm Prayer Service Honoring Romero at Siegfried Residence Hall 
THURSDAY • March 22, 1 
7:00pm • Montgomery Theatre • Liberation Theology • Fr. Ernest Bartell, 8:00pm • esc . "Life and Significance for the U  Discussion on ':Jt't.•rttJr ofKellogg Institute hJ\i...hr•n Romero: ,O.F.M.  
6:30pm • South Dining  
"Romero: A Prophet for Our Time" • ·  ·  · ,:;:=.{  ·  St. Joseph H.S.  

at 3:00pm to St. Stephen's Parish • Vigil and Mass follows march at 5:00pm. 
in Central America 

OVERSEAS 
Week Cosponsored by 
and DEVELOPMENT 
NETWORK 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------JI 

----------------~--------· 
Wednesday, March 21, 1990 
The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 

~//////////////////////////////////////////////..4 W////////////////////////////////////////////////////////././////////////////////.M 0¥////////////////////////....vh¥/////////////////hl
tt 

3:30 p.m.--Lecture and slide presentation by Commander James Wetherbee, ND's first graduate in spaee. Washington Hall. 
4 p.m.--"Ecological Seeurity in an Interdependent World." Patricia :VIische, eo-founder of Global Education Associates. Hoorn 121 Law Sehool. Sponsored by Institutn for International Peacn Studies. 
4:20p.m.--"Physics Goals for thn SSC--Why do we Need it'?" Professor G. Kane, University of Michigan. Hoom 118 Nieuwland Science Ilall. Sponsored by Deptartment of Physir.s. 
CAMPUS 7 p.m.--Film. "Homnro." Engineering Auditorium. Sponsored by IPS:vt. 
7:30 p.m.--HI)CPption and Hegistration for "Nanative l'rartires and Cultural l>isroursn" Confnn~nce. 
8 p.m.--South lknd Chamber Singers Spring Concert. l.ittlP TlwatrP, Saini Mary's CoiiPgn. 
8:15 p.m.--(;lee Club ConcPrt. Washington Hall. Sponsornd by l>npartnwnt of Music. 
MENUS 

Notre Dame 
BBQ Hibs BPPI' a Ia ChinoisP ChirkPn TPtrazzini ThrP<' Ch<'PSP Croissant 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
ACROSS 26 Is outscored 53 Genus of passerine birds 
280kla.
1 Marshal Dillon homesteader 56 World Series 5 Large clam 31 Faux pas MVP.: 1972 

10 Imogene, the comedienne 57 Actor Jannings 
34 Eminent 36 A cause of

14 Jewish month 58 Huskies from 
grayness 

Seattle 37 Breslau's river 16 Pequod's 60 Murine creatures 
15 Basel's river 38 Describingskipper compacted hay 61 Upper air 17 Aggies from 39 Bandleader

College Station 62 German article 
Kenton 
19 Choler 

40 At present 63 Wedding vows 20 U.C.LA Bruins. 
41 Climbing pepper 64 Plow man 

e.g. 42 Disburse 65 Take ten 
21 English refreshment 

43 Abalones shops 45 Challenger 
DOWN 

23 Takes umbrage 47 Egresses 25 Prit1kin et al. 49 Call on again 1 Pater's partner 
2 One of the Astaires 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Levies 4 Tourist 
• 
5-Tomb, in 

NYC. 6 Eureka! 1 Two cups a Over 9 Stayed 

1 o They "talk only to God" 
12 Unexcited -:'-:+:-+.--;+::-! 13 Lincoln and Ribicoff 18 Mister, in Mexico 
22 Bamboolike grass 24 French Upper House 27 Did a cobbler's job 29 First Alaskan governor 30 Pull apart 31 Palm Springs mayor 32 Skunk's proteciion 

33 Lobos from Las 
Cruces 35Weblike 38 Conferred, as an 
endowment 39 Kind of spaniel 41--a-brac 42 Number against 
Thebes 44 Banishes 46 Call it a day 48 Old-time school­
room adjunct 
50 French composer 51 Religious images 52 Dogma 53 Prefix with circle 54 At the center of 55 Former Davis Cup figure 
59 "And I Love -,"Beatles song 
Wt>.~T lO SEE set/181{\~G W~\Rt>? LOO'I(. 1>-T lt\E. N\l~ln()W.,L 1~m~~nClt'o1 Ot-t n\E Bf>.C~ W..t-tE.l . 
I 

w~. loo'/. OF 1\-\E. 1-\E'{ ~.' '(OIJ Df..l\..'1 REC.ol<\l<\Etl.D£D C~N SHID t>.'NM AlLOW~NCE. at ~ClR Po. C\-\OC.CllATE. CAF~EI~E: .' ~Rcl'S\lt> S\lG"'R 
BoMBS "B\fZ."Z.'i 1\\£. \1\JMM\tl.GB\R.O. 00\..l.' 

~ ILro~Q ]))roy Qw [WD«:Ik lli![p) ~ ~ OD []) Commissioner ®U£;1 ~ Rpp/lca t/ons 
~ 
~ Special Euents ~ Performing Arts 
~ 1 de as and 1ssues ~ Campus Entertainment ~ 
~ Mouies Seruices ~ Publicity Music 
~ 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

Hours later, when they finally came to, Hal and Ruby groggily returned to their yard work-unknowingly wearing the radio collars and ear tags of alien biologists. 

l¥®llila ®rru@l U[ru® ~®l?UWl?® 
March 22 and 23 
• 

8:00 PM 
Washington Hall 
STuoEr-rruNioN ecv.Ro 
Tickets on sale NOW! $3.00 at LaFortune Info Desk. 
TONIGHT 
~ 

JKil1ID.~ &liD~ C(JlliD~C!J]). ~ 
~ ®lf ~]})~ lllfil~lll ~ 
C®mru]J)~~U~U®IID ~ 
• ~ ~ 
~ 7-9 pm ~ 
~ 

~ Pick up Applications at Secretary's All proceeds go to St. Hedwig's Outreach Center Library Ruditorium ~ ~ Desk, 2nd Floor, Lafortune. and the South Bend YWCA Women's Shelter. ~ ~ Applications due '[ ®!] 00 ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
W/////////H"/////////....vh¥.././////.U.U/.U/.U//.Uh iW./////HH".U//////////.U/.U////.U/////.././////////////////.U/.U.U.U/....vh¥//.U/AV.M WAV///.U.U///.U/.././/////....vh¥/.U.U/.U.U/.U.U///~ 
----~ -­
' 

Wednesday, March 21, 1990
Sports 
Men's Tennis goes 2-1 over break 
After falling to the 14th-ranked Crimson Tide, NO wins 2 

By BOB MITCHELL 

Sports Writer 
While the eyes of most colle­giate sports followers in Austin, Texas were tuned to the "March Madness" of the NCAA Basketball Tournament, the Notre Dame men's tennis team had their minds on matters concerning their own dream, namely, the NCAA Collegiate Tennis Championships. The 16­3 Irish, coming off their first ever national ranking, posted a 2-1 record over spring break,
• 
including a loss to 14th ranked Alabama, 5-4 in the University of Texas Invitational. 
"We came away with the feel­ing that we are right there with the national teams," said head coach Bob Bayliss. "The Alabama match came down to service break in the third set. We have played better. We played hard but we didn't play our best. Last year's team showed that we could compete with the national teams, this
The Observer/Trey Aevmond 

year's team has shown that weThe Irish men's tennis team lost to 14th ranked Alabama 5-4, last week can beat the national teams." 
but defeated Pennsylvania and Furman to up their overall record to 16­
3. 

7-Sirish women split California matchups 
Squad beats Washington and Yale but loses to UCLA 
By BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 

The women's tennis tnam left for Spring Break with a S-3 record and riding on a f'our-1 game winning stn~ak. Although their week-long sweep through southern California snapped the streak, the women managed to maintain their winning rncord, taking victories over Washington and Yale, and losses to UCLA and Pnpperdine to end the week at 7-5. 
After three days of practice on tlw outdoor courts, the women found two formidable opponents in second-ranked UCLA and ninth-ranked Peppnrdine. UCLA swept the Irish, winning with a perfect score of 9-0. Notre Dame fared only slightly better against l'epperdine, who took the m.~ttch 6~2. , 
We d1dn t get blown out in either match," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "We didn't win, but we Wf~re in almost ev­ery match." 
"Tiw UCLA and Pepperdine matches are going to end up helping us," continued the coach. "It wasn't fun losing, but it'll help us in the end be­cause the other schools don't hit as many balls back as UCLA." 
The two matches did, in fact, have an immediate effect on the team, leading them to victories over PAC 10 leader Washington and Ivy League Champion Yale. Notre Dame smashed Washington with a score of 9­0, and beat Yale with a near-perfect 8-1. 
Louderback was impressed with his team's overall perfor­manee, and especially noted the play of Kim Pacella at sixth-seed singles, and of Kristy Do-ran and Eniko Bende at the number three doubles spot. Both Pacella and the Irish duo captured three of four matches over the week, grabbing the only team victories against Pepperdinn. 

Notre Dame's top doubles tnam of Tracy Barton and Anne Bradshaw encountered more difficulty over the week, taking tough losses to UCLA (7-5, 6-2) and Pepperdine (7-6, 6-2). The duo rebounded against Wash­ington and Yale, however, win­ning both matches in straight sets. 
The Irish women will have several chances to continue their winning ways when they face four opponents this com­ing weekend. Notre Dame will challenge Western Michigan at home on Thursday, then travel to Purdue and Indiana Univer­sity before returning home to face Marquette on Sunday. 
Surprise! Notre Dame O'Connor finishes fifth in NCAAs 
. F 
..··.

has runner In ranee 
International com­pPtition has a I'Prtain 
Scott Brutocao

llair about it. l~xcitP­nwnt ovPrllows, rom­petition is intPnsP and tlw world rlwPrs on. Wlwn NotrP l>anw Irish Items sends one of its ath­lntes to rompPte in an ovPrsPas I'VPnt. the rampus swPIIs up to give its repre­sentative ovl'rllowing support. 
Or maybl' not. 

.John Coyle, Notrn Damn distance runner extraordinaire, prnsl'ntly is lodging in Aux Les Bains, France, awaiting the start of his first inWrnational race. On March 24 the 19-year old fwshman will run in the Junior World Inwr­national Cross-Country Championships. an honor lw re­ceiw~d hy winning tlw .Junior Division ( 19 years and un­der) qualifier in Seattle, Wash. in FPbruary. 
We haw a f'rPshman in France right now? 
Yes, but it is not surprising that tlwre an~ less people who know about Coyle's accomplishnwnts than them arn who go to bn~akfast at tlw dining halls on Saturday mornings. Lack of fan support has always haunted tlw non-rnvPnue sports programs at Notre Dame, ~~ven though tlwse tPams an~ often among tlw best in the coun­try. 
CoyiP is a prinw example. llere is a young runner who, see ITEMS page 13 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 
Distance runner Mike 

O'Connor became Notre Dame's 
23rd indoor track All-American 
on Friday, March 10 when he 
placed fifth in the 5000 meters 
at the NCAA Championships at 
the Hoosier Dome in 
Indianapolis. 
O'Connor ran a personal-best 

13:56.46 in the event, which was won by Iowa State's Jonah Koech in 13:36. O'Connor was the only Notre Dame runner to qualify for the NCAAs. 
O'Connor had a strong start in the race and kept up with the pace until the two-mile mark, when LSU runners Terry Thornton and Mark Elliot broke away from the pack along with Koech. 
Thornton finished second in the race, Todd Williams of Tennessee placed third and El­liot came in fourth. Williams and O'Connor were the only American-born players to finish in the top six. Koech is from Kenya, Thornton hails from South Africa, Elliot was born in 
The Irish knocked off peren­nial Southern power Furman by a convincing 9-0 margin. Moreover, the Irish squad did not drop a set in the singles competition. After losing to the Crimson Tide, Notre Dame de­feated the mighty Quakers of Pennsylvania, 6-0, to ensure a third place finish. 
Unquestionably, the match of the journey to the Lone Star state was the contest against Alabama, which boats the No. 11 collegiate player Jeff Stimpson. Bayliss & Co. got off to a very shaky start, falling quickly to a 4-2 deficit with the completion of singles competi­tion. Notre Dame's number-one through number-four singles players fell to the Tide. The No. 1 player for the Irish, Dave DiLucia, who is ranked No. 29th in the nation, fell prey to a very hot aggressive opponent in Stimpson, 6-7, 6-3, 6-4. In order to manage another upset this season, the Irish would have had to sweep the doubles competition, a realistic hope considering the good fortunes of the Irish double teams to this point in the season. However, it was simply not meant to be. 
Notre Dame's No. 2 and No. 3 duos came up with victories against their respective Crimson Tide counterparts. The No. 2 team of Chuck Coleman and Walter Dolhare came to­gether to down Rick Witsken­Brad McMurray in three sets, 7-5, 4-6, 7-5. The No. 3 tandem of Ryan Wenger and Andy Zurker, the most consistent duo on the squad, continued their high level of play to edge Mike Sass-Tony McKelvane in three sets, 7-5, 4-6, 7-6. 
Once again, it all came down to the No. 1 doubles team of DiLucia and Mike Wallace. With the match knotted at 4-4, Dil.ueia-Wallace courageously battled the Top Ten ranked op­ponent of Stimpson and Elliss Ferrera to a two set loss, 6-2, 7-5. 
"The No. 1 team had one of their two bad matches," said see TENNIS I page 12 
. The Observer/Trey Reymond Kat1e Clark and the Notre Dame women's tennis team posted a 2-2 record over break, leaving their record at 7-5. 

Iii 


Mike O'Connor 
Jamaica and E.J. liou, who fin­ished in sixth place, is a native of the People's Republic of China. 
"I think Mike ran very well," Notre Dame track coach Joe Piane said. "It was the best time he has ever run, but we know, and Mike knows that he can run even faster." 
O'Connor, a senior who co­captained the Irish indoor squad along with Yan Searcy, qualified for the NCAA meet with a 13:57.58 time in the 5000 meters at the Alex Wilson Invitational on February 24 at Notre Dame. The following week ~e qualified for t~e NCAAs m the 3000 meters w1th a time of 7:59.19. O'Connor chose to compete only in the 5000 meters at the NCAA Championships. 
The opportunity to partici­pate in the NCAAs was espP­cially sweet for O'Connor be­cause he was not able to partic­ipate on the 1989 Irish track team. The Brightwater, New York native suffered a stress fracture in his foot during the cross country season in the fall of 1988, and the injury kept O'Connor out of action during both the indoor and outdoor seasons in his junior year. 
O'Connor also was the only Notre Dame athlete to qualify for the NCAA cross country championships in 1989. lie was a six-time Catholic All-Star while he was in high school in Long Island, and was ranked fifth in the nation among milers by Track and Field News when he came out of St. John's the Baptist High School. 

