
VOL. XXIII NO. 6 MONDAY , SEPTEMBER 3, 1990 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Iraq frees hundreds of hostages; Bush critical 
(AP)-More than 100 AmeriJ barrassed by this, and I think cans and several hundred other that's certainly true of others foreigners left Baghdad on jet­around the world," Bush told liners for home Saturday, but reporters in Kennebunkport, many others remained behind, Maine. prompting President Bush to The summit announcement criticize Iraq for freeing the indicates Moscow may be will­hostages too slowly. ing to play a larger role in re­
In another major develop­solving the crisis caused by ment, Bush announced on Sat­Iraq's invasion of Kuwait Aug. urday that he and President 2. Mikhail Gorbachev will meet in Progress also was reported Helsinki, Finland, on Sept. 9 to on another diplomatic front discuss the Middle East and Saturday. other matters, including arms Sources in Amman, Jordan, control. where U.N. Secretary General 
''I'm glad when any American Javier Perez de Cuellar and a comes out of there, but there's senior Iraqi official met, said a certain brutality, a certain the two men were discussing a tawdry performance in all of plan designed to prevent a war this," Bush said, when asked between Iraq and United about Iraq's policy of releasing States. a few hundred captives at a The sources said the plan time. would create an Arab peace­
"It is so base and so outra­keeping force to act as a buffer geous that I think most people in the Arab world are very em-see GULF I page 4 

Law School dean named head of NO-Australia 
By L. PETER YOB Dame's longest serving dean 
NDA will be "totally patterned will enroll its first students in News Writer and is second in seniority after Notre Dame USA," January 1992. among American law deans. In according to Link. "Eventually Although there are no legal 
Law School Dean David Link his absence, Fernand Dutile, it (NDA) will have the same or financial ties between the has been named president of associate dean of the law number of students," as Notre two schools, Notre Dame will the newly established University school will serve as acting Dame and the same "concept of offer NDA guidance during its of Notre Dame-Australia dean. high residentiality of students," formative years, and faculty (NDA). that nation's first Link said that he wants to which Link said will be "unique and student exchanges will be a Catholic University. emphasize that before he ac­in Australia." significant feature of this rela­
Link will serve as both Dean cepted this new position he tionship. of the Law School and president made sure, "that their loaning This year Link said he will in­of the University of Notre me out won't affect the quality terview prospective faculty and Link said that this new Uni­Dame in Australia this year. of Notre Dame Law School or visit schools in Australia to versity will be good for the Next year he will begin a leave even how it operates." In fact, DavidUnk meet with prospective students. state of Western Australia and of absence from the Law School he said, this new position "may sure the institution's academic "NDA will attract students that "reaction has been very and take up residence in Fre­enhance it because it won't be quality and Catholic character. from through-aut the Pacific positive." "There is hope for a mantle, Western Australia, very long before we have a law He was selected for the post in Rim," and the student body will high quality private university which will be the site of the program in Australia." July by a vote of the university's be "very international," accord­that v.ill be good for the coun­NDA campus. Dean Link said that he will board of governors with the ing to Link. He said that he try," he added. 
A 1958 Notre Dame gradu­spend time at both NDA and approval of its trustees. wants to set up exchange pro­A 1965 Notre Dame Law 
ate, Link received his law de­the Law School here in Indiana. grams for students from Notre School graduate, Dutile has gree from the University in According to Link, he will make Link called the establishment Dame and other American col­been its associate dean for 1961. After serving in the trips to Australia this year and of NDA, "an interesting chal­leges so that they can study at academic affairs since 1988. 
Kennedy Administration and that next year he will be lenge, not just for me but to the NDA. Link said he is hoping Dutile agreed with Link that becoming a senior partner in "commuting the other way." University--to start a brand these programs will begin the the quality of the Law School the Chicago law firm of Win­As the inaugural president of new univ!)rsity in this day and first year NDA is open. will not suffer during Link's ston & Strawn, Link in 1970 NDA, Link will be the univer­age." NDA will be "unique" Link leave of absence. "As acting joined 'the law school faculty. sity's chief academic officer said, because it will be Australian school's sessions dean I expect to continue the 
He has headed the Law and will be charged with devel­"starting with high quality stu­run from January to the first momentum he has begun at the 
School since 1975 and is Notre oping a long-range plan to en-dents and faculty." 
Report on ethics suggests that students should be offered more courses in ethics 
By PAUL PEARSON 

IJIIWJI ..The Colleges of Business and
Assistant News Editor 
Engineering are educating for 
A report submitted to Univer­professions. Our responsibility sity Provost Timothy O'Meara is to teach ethical skills as well this past May recommends that as professional skills." 
students should be offered L*~~~i~~;;11;d On the other hand, "a large 
1111!

more courses concerning ethics percentage of liberal arts stu­
and ethical decision-making. better educate our students." dents will go on to graduate 
The report, made by the The committee consisted of schools. When they learn pro­Committee to Review the Ethical Williams; professors from all fessional skills, they will Jearn Dimension of Education at the· five undergraduate schools; ethics." Williams said. "Also, University of Notre Dame, rec­David Link, Joseph Matson they're getting a lot of ethical ommends that the University Dean and professor of law; education now, so some of it is should "allocate funds for fac­Ricky Battistoni, an MBA stu­happening already." ulty workshops on ethics and dent; and David Kinkopf, 1988-The report also recommends for a clearing house which 89 student body vice president. that ethics courses currently would be a repository for re­In ·particular, the report rec­offered in the Law School and sources on ethics." ommends that courses in ethics the College of Engineering be 
The committee was chaired be required for students in the expanded form one credit to by Father Oliver Williams, as­College of Engineering and the three credits. Williams said sociate provost and associate College of Business Administra­that this would be difficult to professor of management. The tion. It does not make this rec­implement, but that it would be committee was appointed by ommendation for the College of worth the trouble involved. O'Meara and by University Arts and Letters. Williams said that the com-President Father Edward Mal­Williams said that this was loy. Williams said Sunday that due to the nature of the differ­they wanted "to see how we can ent curricula for these schools. see ETHICS I page 4 

The Observer I Eric Bailey 

guns down two unsuspecting sophomores, Anne Peterson and Tony Vazzana, in front of Breen-Phillipson Saturday. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Get involved: The Observer needs you 
Since it's the second week of classes, pro­fessors believe they have the right to ex­pect some sort of academic perfor­mance out of most of us. I have decided to treat the readership to its first quiz of the Alison Cocks year. Please answer Editor-in-Chief the following questions as honestly as possible, without glancing at your neighbor's tray for inspi­ration. 
•Are 
you looking for a way to avoid studying? 

•Does 
your resume cover less then half a page? 

•
Do you reach your mental peak between midnight and 4 a.m.? 

•Does 
your sense of humor become in­creasingly bizarre between midnight and 4 a.m.? 

•
Do you ever wonder what goes on in LaFortune after the building closes? 



If the answer to any of those questions 
was yes, you are a perfect candidate for the 
Observer staff. 
Notice none of my questions concerned 
experience. I'd never worked on a newspa­
per staff before someone from The 
Observer cornered me at Activities Night 
three years ago. Look what happened. 
I also neglected to mention an interest in journalism. That's not essential either. Our advertising representatives, business staff and typesetters aren't looking for careers in newspapers. 
And if you've heard all the lines before, from "It's a great way to give something back to the Notre Dame Family" to "It's a great way to meet people" I can also offer 
you the following advantages: 
• 
Free doughnuts every Monday. Wednesday and Friday. 

•
Macintosh experience in programs such as Microsoft Word, Mac Draw, Adobe Illustrator, and Quark XPress. 

•A 
new vocabulary of four-letter words and gestures in several languages to use when the aforementioned software refuses to behave. 

•The 
chance to hang up on callers because no one can figure out how to put the phone on hold. 

•The 
dubious distinction of working with some of the campus's most unusual--and entertaining--personalities. 


If you're convinced, find us at our table at both Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's' Activities Nights this week. All you need is a few hours a week you're prepared to devote to us, a little enthusiasm and the ability to work hard and have fun at the same time. 
If you have those, believe me, you will be welcomed here. Producing a daily newspa­per with a circulation of 12,500 and taking classes isn't easy. We need all the help we can get. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Obset:Ver~ 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: News 
Pete Loftus Viewpoint Kevaleen Ryan 

Kathy Welsh Julie Shepherd
Accent 

.:lrculation Lisa Eaton
Shonda Wilson Bill O'Roukrke 
Cristina Ortiz 
Matt Novak Systems
Sports 

Amalia MeierScott Brutocao Fritz Valsaint 
Scoreboard ­
BusinessChris Cooney Chris Maxwell Ad Design

Production 

Lisa Gunsorek 
Karen Newlove Joy Harris Lisa Eaton 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fnday except durmg exam and vacation periods. The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Monday, September 3, 1990

The Observer 
WEATHER Forecast for noon, Monday, September 3, 1990 
Yesterday's high: 86 Yesterday's low: 69 Nation's high: 1 07 
(Yuma, AZ.) • Nation's low: 3 0 (Truckee, CA) 
Forecast: Partly sunny and mild to­day . with highs in the lower 80s. Mostly cloudy and warm tonight and to­morrow, with a 30 percent chance of thunder­storms. Lows in the lower to middle 60s and highs in the middle 80s. 

COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  ©1990 Accu-Weather, Inc.  
Pressure®©  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  


OF INTEREST 
Saint Mary's editor, Corinne Pavlis will Volunteer tutors are needed for be holding an organizational meeting in Hagar Parlor, elementary and high school students on Tuesdays from 6 Saint Mary's tonight at 5 p.m. for all Saint Mary's to 7:30 p.m. Sept. 10 through Dec. 11 in Madeleva Hall, students working for the Observer. Saint Mary's. An orientatJlion meeting will be held Sep. 10 
form 6 to 7 p.m. in Room 328 Madeleva. If interested call 
Seniors preparing for law school are Hallie at 284-5316 or Betsy at 284-4441. strongly encouraged to attend tonight's pre-law society meeting in the Library Auditorium at 7 p.m. Dean Link of Off-campus students can now pick up a copy the Notre Dame Law School will be speaking. Materials of Du Lac: Student Life Policies and Procedures in the will also be distributed and $5 dues will be collected. Office of Student Affairs in Room 315 Administration 
Building. This booklet contains important information for 
Off-campus students may pick up their phone all students. · books in the student government secretary's office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday The South Bend Community School 
through Friday. Corporation's Adult Education Department is looking for volunteers to tutor adult basic education and adult 
NDE past participants: we need palanca for English as a second language classes. These classroom NDE #14 Sept. 7 -9. Please drop them off at the Campus hours may count as part of 100 pre-student teaching Ministry Office in the Library. If you have any questions hours of field experience required for Saint Mary's contact Sr. Dorothy at 239-7800. Education majors and minors. Need volunteers mornings, 
afternoons, and evenings. Call Gayle Silver at 232-5744 or 282-4137. 
WORLD 

Hundreds of army recruits in China Three Palestinians were killed by Israelis have been rejected for military service because of their in August, equaling the lowest monthly death toll of the tattoos, a newspaper reported Sunday. The Guangming 33-month Palestinian uprising, according to figures re-Daily said tattoos were discovered on about 75 percent of leased Sunday. July's toll was also three. The Israeli Cen­the youths at a recent military recruitment campaign in ter for Human Rights in the Occupied Territories at-Chengde, a city northeast of Beijing. It said most of the tributed the lower toll to an army policy of avoiding con­574 tattooed youths used cigarettes or sticks to make frontations with stone-throwers. The policy was initiated various designs, which the paper did not describe. by Defense Minister Moshe Arens, who took office in June. 
NATIONAL

Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado 
,.... .. sent a handwritten apology to two New Jersey boy scouts who heard the A tanker truck overturned in Ashville, Ala.. governor lose his temper on a talk and spilled hundreds of gallons of a toxic, highly com­radio show last week when he was bustible chemical early Sunday, forcing about 300 peoplecriticized for not congratulating them. out of their homes and closing an interstate highway. The "I am writing to you personally so 18-wheeler careened off Interstate 59 about 35 miles that you may understand my attitude northeast of Birmingham around 1:30 a.m., said state and feelings about your personal Department of Public Safety spokesman Jim Hyatt. The achievement of becoming Eagle Scouts and about the way driver, Earl Gavin, 51, of Independence, Mo., was trapped my office handled the issue," Romer said in the letter Fri-in the wreckage for nine hours, Hyatt said. He was hospi­day to Douglas Baker Jr., 14, anci Derek Edmund, 17, of talized in Birmingham in fair condition. Oradell, N.J. 
CAMPUS 
ALMANAC 
Catholic higher education can -and On September 3: should be -of service to other Catholic institu­tions by offering knowledge and training to cope 
e In 1911 : Social Democrats 
in Berlin threaten to strike if Germany

with church fiscal crises, said University of Notre 
goes to war over Morocco.

Dame President Father Edward Malloy. He said 
e In 1925: Navy dirigible necessity accumulated valuable experience that NYSE Index that Catholic colleges and universities have "of 
Shenandoah crashes in Ohio storm, can be of use in some form to dioceses, parishes, 176.97 ft 1.74 
killing 14 crew members. schools, hospitals and other church-affliliated S&P Composite 
e In 1943: Allies cross the organizations." Malloy offers examples of fi­322.56 ft 3.85 
Messina straits of Italy and invade the mainland..

nancial programs, seminars and consulting ser­Dow Jones Industrials vices being offered to church administrators by 2,614.36 {t21.04 
e In 1952: In Little Rock, Ark., Ike warns white Southerners they

various Catholic colleges and universities, includ­
Precious Metals 
could lose their rights by not

ing Notre Dame , and urged that they be ex­
protecting rights of Negroes.

panded. Gold +$4.40 to $382.30/ oz. 
e Ten Years Ago: In New Sliver-!} 4.7¢ to $4.670/ oz. 
York, Abbie Hoffman, fugitive six years, gives himself up. 

.­

ND committee to address environmental ISSUes 
By KEVALEEN RYAN 
News Writer 
In response to a rising envi­ronmental conscience, Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy has established a committee to address those 
•ecological issues affecting the Notre Dame community. 
Appointed to chair this committee is Thomas Mason, vice president for Business Af­fairs. As an officer of the Uni­versity, he was requested to take on this assignment in ad­dition to his other duties and recommend those individuals he considered environmentally re­ceptive to complete the commit­tee. 
According to him, it is the re­sponsibility of this commission to "look at the University as an entity, make sure we know about the environmental issues and are responsive to them." 
The council has been left to its own to determine these is­sues. 
Currently, the focus is on the research of several different points the group feels is perti­nent to the ecological safety of this campus. These include in­fluencing the manufacture and use of biodegradable materials in all on-campus activities, set­ting up a means to recycle trash, examining the quality of the drinking water, working towards a smoke-free campus, and analyzing the chemical emissions from vehicles on campus property. 
Mason said he is "very en­thused (about these prospects) and amazed at how quickly people got involved." 
The committee has been in session for about three months, meeting for approximately two hours biweekly. In the mean­time, each member takes on a couple of different assignments and presents their results to the following assembly, said Mason. 
The end product is a detailed 
report to Malloy, outlining their 
research and recommending a 
specific course of action. 
Although there is no timetable 
for submitting their position 
papers, the committee sends 
the president periodic briefs to 
keep him abreast of the situa­
tion and issues with which they 
are dealing. 
According to Mason, this 
council was not designed to op­
erate under deadlines, but 
rather exist as an "ongoing sit­
uation" in which members will continue to monitor the envi­ronmental issues facing the University. 
Specific projects vary in the amount of time required for their completion, said Mason. While some necessitate only a minimum amount of research to reach a decision, other issues demand extensive consideration of not only the initial problem, but also its possible ramifications. 
For example, their is some disagreement among experts on the issue of biodegradable materials, he said. Research indicates that "no matter what you throw in the dump, its go­ing to be there for a long time." 
Furthermore, there is no fa­cility within 100 miles capable of recycling material. The committee is currently working with those people responsible for waste disposal about the possibility of constructing a such a recycling utility because, according to Mason, "we can't set up a system (segregating trash into reuseable piles) until we have the physical facility." 
In the meantime, the primary goal of the council in these ar­eas is a drastic reduction in the use of the materials in question, he said. Policies that have proven effective in other schools consist of a discount for students who supply their own cups in eating establish­ments instead of wasting paper cups. The committee hopes to initiate something similar. 
Mason stated that they are also involved in the research of better, more environmentally safe materials to be used in various types of packaging. They have already rejected one proposal on the basis of insuf­ficient evidence. 
As the committee has per­formed most of the necessary research themselves and the majority of the information is already readily available, the initial cost is negligible. "The cost will come when the rec­ommendations are made" said Mason. 
Another facet of their investi­gation deals with the quality of the drinking water on campus. Mason was pleased to report that the ground water itself is in excellent condition Any dis­coloration present is the result of the piping, which in some cases is over 100 years old. 
He further indicated that the council is presently in the pro­a similar measure. 
However, Mason stated that "the constituencies of faculty and students are quite different in a university." The committee is aware that such action will spark protests that these poli­cies are an infringement on student rights. 
Members of the council have also initiated correspondence with other schools across the country, such as Duke, the Uni­versity of Louisville and the University of California at 
Berkely, that have already banned smoking. 
Mason said the committee in­tends to establish various edu­cational and training programs to deal with the number of smokers that would be affected if this proposal passes. 
"I can't say where this will go, but I can tell you where I hope it will end up," stated Ma­son, a strong advocate of a smoke-free campus. 
The committee consists of Is­abel Charles, Associate Provost and director of Foreign Studies, John DeLee, director of utilities, James Frain, associate 
IIIF lYCIDUJ mii~~IEIJD CIDI!Jlli IFIIlli~~ ~&I1JE~ IEIIEmiE II~ lYCIDlJJlli CCIEI&WCCIE IFCIDlli IEWIEW CfilmiE&~IElli ~&WIIWCfil~...... Chairs $ 7-17 Loveseats $17-37 Sofas $25-45 OPEN MON-FRI 9-7pm, SAT 9-6pm 921 N. Eddy Street 1805 Western Av. 3 min. South of Campus (Take Juniper South) • Checks accepted w/ student ID Delivery service available•  cess of compiling this informa­director of Human Resources, tion into a report which will of­Ron Hellenthal, professor of fer an appropriate solution, biological sciences, Richard probably recommending the re­Hilliard, director of research placement of some of this compliance and assistant pro­faulty piping, fessional specialist of the One of the most controversial Graduate School, Edward issues the committee faces is its Hums, assistant comptroller of promotion of a completely general accounting, Carol Sea­smoke-free campus. They have ger, director of the student consulted representatives from health center, and Robert Zerr, St. Joseph's Hospital in South director of risk management Bend who have recently enacted and safety.  
SaintM~'s Colleg~NOTRE DAME· INDIANA Balfour  

1-1 (Z\MPUSMINISTRY VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  College Ring; One Hundred Reasons to Buy Your College Ring NOW!  
CAMPCS 1\1JNISTRY  
SPO:\SORS FOR STuDEYfS PREPARING FOR BAPTISM, FLLL C0\1\llJNION I~ TilE CATHOLIC ClluRUI OR CO:\'FIRMATION. SPONSORS SERVE AS FRIENDS, COMPANIONS A\D GUIDES TO STUDENTS PREPARI\G FOR TilE ABOVE SACRAr>1ENTS. CALL Sister Mary Curran, esc 239-5242 Campus Ministry • Badin Hall  Upto $100 OFF!  
TEAM MEMRERS 1\EEDED FOR RCIA A:\D CONFIH\1ATIO:"< PROGRAMS. A FEW TEAM MEMBERS ARE NEEDED TO FACILITATE S:\lALL,FAITH·SHARING GROUPS AS WELL AS TO \VELCOME AND Sl'PPORT CA:-<Dffl,\TES. CALL Sister Mary Curran to schedule an interview. 2Y!-52.t2 · before September 5th.  Save $100 on J8K, $60 on 14K and $40 on lOK gold rings, in great designs only from Balfour. Order yours today-this special Age of Reasons won't last forever! See your representative and make these savings on your ring during Ring Week Tuesday ­Friday September 4,5,6 & 7th in the Haggar College Ctr. game rm. • [VISA J 32l4AfenauquetT.nxU Deposi"t requiredAfichigan City, IN 46360  




page 4 The Observer Monday, September 3, 1990 

Ethics 
continued from page 1 
mittee would like to eliminate "ethical laxity," which he blamed for the 1986 explosion of the space shuttle Challenger. "We hope to train our students to have the courage to speak up." he said. 
The committee recommends the establishment of a two-day ethics workshop to be offered to seniors at the beginning of the school term. According to the report, the workshop would be "an opportunity to take stock of what they have learned 
Gulf 
continued from page 1 
between the tens of thousands of Iraqi troops in occupied Kuwait and the U.S.-led multi­national force being deployed in Saudi Arabia. 
The Soviet Union might help mediate simultaneous with­drawals of Iraqi troops from 
Kuwait and opposing forces from Saudi Arabia, the sources said. 
Perez de Cuellar and Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz ex­pressed optimism, but neither would comment on the reports 
CTI gives scholarship 
Special to The Observer 
CTI Telecommunications, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cincinnati Bell Inc. is estab­lishing an endowed scholarship fund at the University of Notre Dame. 
The announcement was made jointly by Tim Shindeldecker, president of CTI Telecommuni­cations, John LaMacchia, presi­dent and chief operating officer of Cincinnati Bell lnc., and Fa­ther Edward Malloy, president of the University of Notre Dame. 
"CTI has always had a very strong relationship with Notre Dame and the South Bend community," Shindeldecker said. "The scholarship rein­forces our commitment to both." 
Shindeldecker said the five­year scholarship grant is unre­stricted and will be used at the discretion of the University. 
"The scholarship will allow Notre Dame to continue to at­tract quality students and open the doors to those who might not otherwise be afforded such an opportunity," Father Malloy said. 
/ 
Pol~ -~B?:tR~< J,;..a~ren 
·. Factory Store 
RETAIL HELP 
The Polo/Ralph Lauren Factory Store is seeking quaiHied individuals to fill the following positions for its Michigan City, IN Factory store: 
DEPARTMENr MANAGER 
FI'IPT SALES ASSOCIATES 
Experience with bettermen's and women's apparel preferred. Excellent benefits provided. Salary commensurate with experience. Please apply in person at: 
Polo/Ralph Lauren Factory Store Lighthouse Place 101 Wabash Street Michigan City, IN 

about ethics theoretically and practically." 
The report will be submitted to the Provost Advisory Com­mittee, which consists of the deans of each the Colleges, the Dean of Freshman Year of Studies, the Vice President of Administrative Studies and the Provost's Office, later this month. 
"When Father Sorin came here, he said that education should always be two-handed­to educate the mind and the heart. That's why this commit­tee was formed. We wanted to know how we can teach even better." Williams said. 
when their two-day meeting ended. 
"The talks were very fruit­ful," Aziz said. "This situation is complicated and dramatic (and) cannot be resolved by dramatic diplomacy. It needs patience. It needs time and people to understand exactly the positions." 
The United States, mean­while, continued to pour troops and military hardware into Saudi Arabia, where a multina­tional force is being deployed to oppose Iraqi troops massed near Kuwait's border with Saudi Arabia. 
Until recently, American troops had remained well south 
Where else can you get your life organized and advertised? 

Welcome back 
Students enjoy ~he sun~hin~_and a break from dining hall food at the freshman welcoming picnic spon­sored by the Off1ce of Mmont1es at Holy Cross field on Friday. 
of Saudi Arabia's border, but ment northward of several "If nothing else, it shows we now they are moving north to units indicates that U.S. com­believe we are now capable of bolster the force's defensive manders in Saudi Arabia are sustaining a significant force in lines and significantly improve now comfortable putting forward positions," a senior its offensive capabilities. troops a good distance away Air Force officer said. 
U.S. officials say the move-from major supply points. 

Your needs are simple; Ajob and happiness. We'll h~lp y~u organi~e _YO~r life onto aresume. Not just any old standard resume, but one that expresses your mdivtdually distinctive personality. We also want to help your organization's activities run with complete success. Our graphic capabilities enable us to produce the quality of work you want, at low prices, because we understand the student budget. Resumes, posters, flyers, table tents, brochures, business reports, cups, t-shirts,and much more. It's all possible at Adworks. That should make you happy. 
We're located on the 3rd floor of LaFortune Student Center, make a right off the elevator. 
Open: M•W•F 2:30-5:00pm, T•Th 2:30-S:OOpm or just call ADW•ORKS (239-6757) 
-~---~~~~------~~---­
•

Police narrow suspect list 1n 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) -man at the University of Robert McDowell. Police have 
Investigators narrowed their Florida charged with assaulting already picked over garbage in 
list of prime suspects to four his grandmother, was among the complex's trash containers, 
Sunday in the grisly knife slay­the four. but have not said whether they 
ings of five students and hinted However, two police officers recovered a murder weapon. 
that the serial killer left in hip waders on Sunday used a 
"messages of some impor­metal detector to search a An Ohio fugitive, 58-year-old 
tance." creek next to the apartment Warren Virgil Tinch, was 
Police would not say whether complex where Humphrey lives. dropped from the list, said 
18-year-old Edward Lewis They did not appear to find Alachua County Sheriff's 
Humphrey, a part-time fresh-anything, said police Cpl. spokesman Lt. Spencer Mann. 
lllfPPt(8/RTIIO!ft( 
JOE/ 
September 1, 1990 

LOVE, Mom, Dad, Marianne, Alicia, Kristina, Titus, Kip, Mari, Mikey, Pep and all the birds on the bird feeders. 
1m1  Invitation  
(?MPUSMINISTRY  to  Sacramental Preparation  
Baptism, Full Communion,  
Confirmation  
in the Catholic Church  

INFORMATION SESSIONS Wednesday. September 5; 7pm: 
for unbaptized people interested in joining the Catholic Church and their sponsors. 
for baptized people interested in Full Communion in the Catholic Tradition and their sponsors. 
for baptized Catholics willing to volunteer to 
join with and act as sponsors for persons who wish to become Catholics. 
Sunday. September 16 

7pm: for Catholics interested in receiving the sacrament of Confirmation and their sponsors. 
for yolunteer sponsors for Catholics preparing for Confirmation. 
Meeting Place; La Fortune -2nd Floor, Notre Dame Room 
REGISTER FOR INFORMATION SESSIONS AT: 
Campus Ministry Office -Badin Hall 
from August 30 to September 5 Sister Mary Curran -239-5242 

U. of Fla. killings 
Tinch is sought in Ohio in the who is on the list. stabbing death of a 52-year-old A week after the first two woman and is suspected of mutilated bodies were found, stealing cars in Ocala and police disclosed Sunday that the Gainesville a week before the killer left messages or clues at killings. the victims' apartments that 
could tie him to all five mur­
"To say he's still a suspect (in ders. But they refused to char­the slayings) would be incor­acterize these messages except rect," Mann said. But he said to say they were not in the form police were not prepared to sa}' of notes or other writings. 
Hundreds say farewell to blues guitarist Vaughan 
DALLAS (AP) -More than Vaughan's mother, Martha 1,000 mourners, led by Bonnie Vaughan, was accompanied by Raitt, Jackson Browne and Ste­her older son, Jimmie Vaughan, vie Wonder, sang a bluesy ver­the founder of The Fabulous sion of the ancient hymn Thunderbirds, and by Stevie 
"Amazing Grace" on Friday at Ray Vaughan's fiancee, Janna a graveside service for blues Lapidus. Ringo Starr was there, guitarist Stevie Ray Vaughan. as were members of ZZ Top. 
The singer's fans, some Mourners began arriving be­dressed in black, some in T­fore 10 a.m. for the noon shirts from his concerts, and graveside service, and their some wearing replicas of numbers swelled steadily. By Vaughan's trademark black felt the start of the service, fans hat, stood in the sweltering were lined up nine and 10 deep heat for as long as three hours. outside restraining barriers 
Vaughan, 35, died Monday in across a road from the burial a helicopter crash in Wisconsin site. They heard the services after headlining a concert Sun­over a public address system. day night with Eric Clapton and Stevie and Jimmie Vaughan 
Robert Cray. had just completed an album, "Family Style," set for release
~illll in September. Producer AI Rogers played a cut, "Tick Tock," from the album at the service. 
Many in the crowd got teary­eyed during the song, and ap­plause and whistles broke out when it ended. ''I'm glad you applauded," said presiding minister Barry Bailey. "That was appropriate." 
More applause followed the blues-style version of "Amazing Grace" near the end of the half­hour service. 
"We grew up with him in Oak Cliff," said Pat Beam of Grand Prairie. 
This Is NoWay To TakeYour 
LSAT. 
you've set your sights on school, there's no better LSAT preparation than Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our LSAT prep will'open your eyes with score-raising strategies 
and techniques. We'll help you master everything from Analytical 
Reasoning to Reading Comprehension. 

Our classes are live-and lively. All our class and study material is based on the "new" LSAT. And you can review lessons, and get additional help a5 needed in our TEST-N-TAPE-lab, open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience 
Visit our Center today and see for yourself. 
And watch the scales tip in your favo1: 
liSTANLEY H. KAPlAN 
£TakeKaplan OrTakeYour Otances 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PHONE 219/272-4135 RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE! 
---------.,_~---~ ~­
Monday, September 3, 1990

page 6 The Observer 
Notre Dame received $2.9 million in grants last July 
Special to The Observer 

The University of Notre Dame received $2,928,489 in grants during July for the support of research and various pro­grams. Research funds totaled $1,824,676, including: 
•$294,775 
from Lilly Endow­ment Inc. for research by Jay Dolan, professor of history and director of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism on Hispanic Catholics in the 20th century United States. 

•$289,929 
from the National Institutes of Health for re­search by Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and Kleiderer-Pezold professor of biochemistry, on mutant fib­rinolytic proteins. 

•$174,983 
from Purdue Uni­versity for research on mi­crowave dissipation in high temperature superconductors by Walter Tomasch, professor of physics, and Howard Black­stead, associate professor of physics. 

•$125,210 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Joseph O'Tousa, as­sistant professor of biological sciences, on genetic analysis of retinal degeneration in Drosophila. 

•$122,787 
from Purdue Uni­versity for research on compo­sitional modulation in high temperature superconductors by Krishna Choudhary, assis­tant professor of materials science and engineering, and Steven Ruggiero, associate pro­fessor of physics. 

•$115, 
097 from Purdue Uni­versity for research by Paul McGinn, assistant professor of materials science and engineer­ing, on critical current density in textured superconductors. 

•$103,982 
from the National Science Foundation for scan­ning tunneling microscopy studies of single crystals of platinum and platinum sup­ported catalysts by Eduardo Wolf, professor of chemical engineering. 

•$91,162 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Lawrence Lee, pro­fessor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering, on post­bifurcation behavior of wrin­kles in sheet metal forming. 

•$75,000 
from the Occidental Chemical Corp. for research by Robert Irvine, professor of civil engineering and director of the Ceri:ter for Bioengineering and Pollution Control, on immobi­lized enzyme treatment of xenobiotic organic compounds. 

•$58,870 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search on a calendar of the correspondence of Sir John Herschel by Michael Crowe, professor in the program of liberal studies, and Barbara Turpin, assistant professional specialist in the College of Arts and Letters and concurrent as­sistant professor in the Arts and Letters Core Course. 

•$52,653 
from the National Science Foundation for nuclear structure research by Ani Aprahamian, assistant profes­sor of physics. 

•$50,000 
from the Ford Foundation for research by Gilbert Loescher, associate pro­fessor of government and in­ternational studies, on the un­protected, internally displaced people. 

•$46,100 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search on geometric topology by Francis Connolly, professor of mathematics, and Dariusz Wilczynski, assistant professor of mathematics. 

•$38,870 
from the Interna­



tional Institute of Strategic Standards for research by Gilbert Loescher, associate pro­fessor of government and in­ternational studies, on refugees and international security. 
•$32,930 
from McDonnell Douglas Corp. for research by Robert Nelson, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on vortical flow in­teractions. 

•$28,686 
from the U. S. Air Force for research by Nelson on unsteady surface pressure on a delta wing. 


•$25,000 from the J.D. and 
C.T. MacArthur Foundation for research by F. Clark Power, as­sociate professor in the pro­gram of liberal studies, on moral education for the new millenium. 
•$25,000 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by David Lodge, assis­tant professor of biological sciences, on predation, her­bivory and disturbance. 

•$25,000 
from the Shell De­velopment Co. for research by Nai-Chien Huang, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on flow field mod­eling of oil formation. 

•$20,000 
from the National Science Foundation for physics research by James Kolata, pro­fessor of physics. 

•$10,185 
from the Laureate Group for research by D. Chris Anderson, professor of psy­chology, on a behavior-based health-care plan for the elderly. 

•$9,657 
from the Earhart Foundation for research by Walter Nicgorski, associate professor in the program of liberal studies, on the moral and political philosophy of Ci­cero. 

•$7
,800 from the North At­lantic Treaty Organization for research by Arvind Varma, Schmitt professor of chemical engineering, on optimal design of catalyst pellets. 


•$4,000 from William Leman Inc. for research on the analy­sis of mint oil components by Bruce Plashko, assistant fac­ulty fellow in chemistry, and Paul Helquist, chairman and professor of chemistry. 

Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $22,033 from the National Institutes of Health for small instrumenta­tion used in research by Morton Fuchs, chairman and professor of biological sciences. 
Awards for instructional programs totaled $93,923, in­cluding: 
•$84,498 
from the National Institutes of Health for re­search training in mental re­tardation, administered by John Borkowski and Thomas Whitman, professors of psy­chology. 

•$5,000 
from Bowsher Booher Foundation for a mi­norities in communication pro­gram, administered by Roland Smith, director of the Center for Educational Opportunity and executive assistant to the president, and Kenneth Nelson, . coordinator of Project MASS­COMM. 

•$4,425 
from the National Science Foundation for a re­search experience for under­graduates program, adminis­tered by David Lodge, assis­tant professor of biological sciences. 


Awards for service programs totaled $45,372 from private 

DRIVE STRAIGHl 
INDIANA. ' 
is looking for: Advertising Representitives and Advertising Clerks 
Please call Beth Bolger at 239-6900 or 288-0597 for more information. 
benefactors for various pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 
Awards for other programs totaled $942.485, including: 
•$667
,485 from Pew Charita­ble Trust for an evangelical scholars project, administered by Nathan Hatch, vice president the Graduate School and pro­fessor of history. 

•$200,000 
from International Business Machines for the IBM technical gifts program, admin­istered by Gary Bernstein, as­


sistant professor of electrical engineering. 
•$60,000 
from the A.J. Schmitt Foundation for the Schmitt Foundation fellowship program, administered by Hatch,. 

•$15,000 
from the Inter­American Legal Services for a program on the transition to democracy in Paraguay, admin­istered by Father Ernest Bartell, executive director of the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies and pro­fessor of economics. 



-Itbringsoutthe bestin all of us.· 
United Willy 


is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editors/Copy Editors 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Monday, Sept. 3 to Kelley Tuthill. For further information, call (239-5303). 
--•­
THEPOINTE
__ .........._ _____ _ 
~&:::'
-ar•
AT SAINT JOSEPII 
AnENTION GRADUATE STUDENTS: 
1 bedroom apartments starting at $445­
2 bedroom apartments starting at $550­Everything you are looking for in a luxury apartment: 
FuU size washer & dryer Fully equipped party roomWaD to wall carpeting and full kitchen Floor to celUng bay windows Outdoor pool and sun deckHeated, covered parking Exercise roomCeramic tOed baths Tennis courts

Convenient bus transportation to Notre Dame 
287-2684 
9-6 pm Mon • Fri 1.0-5 pm Sat :U-5pmSun 
:A'-artm'enb 1,hat Stand t\·p .a .r .t rrom the Rest 

ATTTENTION ND!SMC SENIORS PREPARING FOR LAW SCHOOL:  
There will be an important Pre-Law Society meeting tonight at 7:00P.M. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Dean Link of the Notre Dame Law School will be the guest speaker. Materials will be distributed and dues will be collected.  

---------~-----------­
---~-~--~-----~-------~,---~--------=---;:;,.------------­
Business 
Monday, September 3, 1990 page 7 
Philly budget crisis demands 'drastic steps' 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -The nation's fifth-largest city is running out of cash. 
Without a $400 million emer­gency loan, Philadelphia will be out of money by the end of the month. The mayor wants the loan; the city controller says he won't sign it. 
But even with the cash flow help, the city will still be $206.4 million in the red on a budget of $2.1 billion. And projections indicate more deficits in years to come unless drastic steps are taken. Some are even advo­cating a state takeover like the one that bailed out New York City 15 years ago. 
Controller Jonathan Saidel can't block the emergency loan by withholding his signature. But he can make it harder for a city whose notes are already rated as shaky by Wall Street. 
"I believe it is not in the best interest of the city of Philadel­phia," Saidel explains. 
On Friday, Gov. Robert Casey said an unidentified Japanese bank had offered the city a $225 million letter of credit to help Philadelphia sell temporary loan notes. 
Officially, Mayor Wilson Goode has put the loan on hold for a couple of weeks to try to sort things out. 
Saidel said the loan won't cure the debacles that created the crunch, such as the $25 million bill to rebuild a neighborhood bombed by city police in the 1985 confrontation with the radical group MOVE or another $25 million the courts ordered returned to property taxpaye'rs as illegally collected cash. Nor, he said, will it force the mayor and City Council to work to­gether or the state to chip in. 
Goode blames the crisis on the City Council for blocking his ef­forts now and in the past, the state Legislature for refusing to allow a local sales tax this 
NYC Transit::::::~at.ho , 'No penrlles,"~,pleaV · 
NEW YORK (AP) -Ne oken<b~o~s have b~epme Yorkers are giving tb . mmonsince the cosfof a cents worth to the cityls ............ token roseinJanuaryfrom subway system • nearly l · ·· $1. to $1.15. +ttW · million pennies a week, in · The :Transit Authority, fact, to purchase ride to which operates the sutJw~tvs. kens. is getting so m~tn)'.,.,,p~n:me's .,,,,,. 
Clerks and Transit Author ·· at itil)no~ the l ity officials say some people sitor of pennie .. are flooding token boot ···-Federal .. Reserve, · clerks with pennies in re~· York venge for a recent 15-cent · day; fare hike and what they The nulnbE~r ceive as poor service. tni~At1"iilA1 
"You can tell because come down the stairs with a ' smile on their face, shakingw·-· a fist full of pennies," saiq,,,, token clerk Sydney Thom~$. "They put the handful of pennies in the slot and turn . their head and laugh." ···· " 
The pennies slow the work'" of the clerks. lines at · · 
Chrysler anticipates up to 600 buyouts 
DETROIT (AP) -Hundreds of Chrysler Corporation's union workers punched out for the last time Friday, accepting buy­outs from the automaker de­signed to reduce the need for layoffs. 
The reduction in the com­pany's work force, expected to involve about 600 employees, comes as Chrysler negotiates a new national labor contract with the United Auto Workers union and as the financially struggling company seeks ways to cut costs. 
Meantime, negotiators for the UAW and General Motors Corp. continued meetings Friday in subcommittees that focus on particular contract issues, such as wages, benefits and job se­curity. 
Last Tuesday, the union picked GM as its bargaining target, intending to reach an agreement that it can then bring to the other two au­tomakers. Contracts covering more than 450,000 active workers for GM, Chrysler and Ford Motor Co. expire Sept. 14. 
GM and UAW officials said they planned to meet during th Labor Day weekend. Negotia tions began in mid-July. 
Two weeks ago, Chrysler spokesman Lee Sechler said about 450 people had signed up for the buyout program. The company estimated that about 600 might take part in the buy­out, and Sechler said Friday he expected that prediction to hit the mark. 
"It's a positive alternative to layoffs," Sechler said. 
Sechler said it won't be known how much money the au­tomaker is spending on the buyout until late next week or perhaps later . He declined to provide details of the plan, which is contained in a 1988 national UAW-Chrysler con­tract. 
The payout formula is based primarily on an eligible worker's seniority with Chrysler. There are about 60,000 UAW-covered employees at Chrysler, but company and union officials said they didn't know precisely how many of them would be eligible for the program. 
year and the federal govern­ment for years of decreasing aid. 
He made a televised appeal last month for more state aid and council cooperation in raising unspecified existing taxes $150 million and cutting unspecified "non-essential" city services. Without those steps, despite the $400 million loan, the city will run out of cash next May. 
The mayor's approach is not new. For three years, the coun­cil has diluted or rejected his calls for more taxes and the state has rebuffed many of his requests for more aid. 
Some think this time will be different. 
"The problem is so real, so pressing that no one is going to be able to avoid it," said San­dra Featherman, director of the Center for Public Policy at Temple University. 
Others think the mayor and council will reach their usual stalemate and look to an out­side group to rescue the city. 
"More and more there's a be­lief, especially in the business community, that there has to be an outside entity, that there has to be credibility established," said G. Terry Madonna, direc­tor of the Center for Politics and Public Affairs at Millersville University. 
On television, Goode said he would name an advisory panel to devise "hard-hitting" solu­tions. But it would have no au­thority to act. 
Backers of outside control point to the successful state and federal rescue of New York City. which in 197 5 was broke and $792 million in debt. 
The New York Legislature established the Municipal Assis­tance Corp. to monitor the city budget and sell bonds on its behalf. An Emergency Financial Control Board was later given control of the city's spending and eventually won the confi­dence of lending institutions. The federal government backed up $2.3 billion in city borrow­ing. 
Philadelphia officials have so far brushed off the idea, unwill­ing to surrender control. As for state officials, Featherman said, ''I'm not sure the state wants the problem of managing Philadelphia's debt." 
Madonna said getting more state aid won't be easy, espe­cially in an election year. 
"There's the perception that the city gets more than its share of state aid, of having to fund the excesses of the city, that the Goode administration has been less than competent," he said. 
Further, until there is a work­able plan backed by Goode and the council, aiding Philadelphia "will be perceived as throwing money down a rat hole." 

Wall Street to face hard times 
Problems simmered well before Gulf crisis 
NEW YORK (AP) -Merriment is in scant supply for Wall Street's observance of the tra­ditional "business New Year" at Labor Day 1990. 
As investors and their brokers return in full force from vaca­tions or other summer diver­sions, a long agenda of eco­nomic and financial worries faces the securities markets. 
Talk abounds that investors in stocks may be in for a bear market of unknown severity and duration. In the producing and consuming economy, many analysts worry that a recession looms if indeed one hasn't al­ready begun. 
Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait cast a month-long shadow over the world's mar­kets, driving the Dow Jones in­dustrial average down to its lowest level in more than a year. 
Last week, hopes began to spread that an orderly resolu­tion to the crisis could be reached. The price of oil, re­cently as high as $32 a barrel, fell back into the mid-$20s. 
But even given relief from those tensions, analysts say the economy and the markets will have a lot of problems to con­tend with. 
"The banking system was re­fusing loans to marginal bor­rowers as the banks themselves were hit with credit down­grades and bad loans. Real es­tate prices were heading south. Some environment, huh? 
"The oil jolt was akin to throwing gasoline on a smol­dering fire." 
Normally, most of the calls for help to put out that fire would be directed to the Fed­eral Reserve. 
Now, however, many ob­servers are not sure the Fed has the means at its disposal to bring about the necessary re­duction in interest rates. 
A conventional easing of mon­etary policy might not achieve that mission, analysts say, if it exacerbates inflationary fears prompted by the summer surge in oil prices. 
Still, some observers argue that the timing of the crisis in the Middle East might not have been quite as bad for the do­mestic economy as it looked at first. 
They argue that the damage might prove to be less in an economy that was already weakening than it could have been in the setting of a boom. 
"Inflation psychology was largely absent," said Robert Barbera, economist at Shear­son Lehman Brothers Inc. "Manufacturing companies had been paring both inventories and employees, and services sector job growth had slowed appreciably. 
"Forget the Middle East mess for a moment and recall where we stood a few weeks ago be­fore Iraq struck," declared Martin Zweig in his stock advi­sory letter the Zweig Forecast. 
At midyear, Zweig observed, the average stock already showed a double-digit loss from its 1989 highs, even as a few blue chips had pushed the Dow Jones industrial average to new highs. 
"Stock after stock was get­ting smashed because of overly optimistic analysts' forecasts and an overvalued market," he said. 
"For many months the econ­omy had been showing numer­ous signs that the jig was up and that recession was a high probability. 
"Interest rates abroad were surging while the dollar was collapsing. The budget deficit had soared. 

Insurance policies shun AIDS victims 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A complaint that a Fort Wayne company's insurance policy discriminates against AIDS victims could have far-reach­ing effects on health benefits for employees throughout the nation. 
When Kenneth Westhoven tested positive for the HIV virus four years ago, his company's health insurance policy made no reference to AIDS. 
But in 1988, when Lincoln Foodservice Products Inc. of Fort Wayne dropped its health insurance and be­came self-insured it set out separate levels of coverage for its employees who suffer from the disease. 
Under Lincoln's plan, an AIDS patient has a maxi­mum lifetime benefit of $50,000, while the cap for other employees is $1 mil­lion. 
Shortly after the company changed its policy, West­hoven developed pneumonia, and Lincoln learned that its senior industrial engineer had AIDS. 
Westhoven's complaint will be the first AIDS-related case heard by the Indiana Civil Rights Commission. 
"My prediction is that if companies haven't already done what Lincoln did, many will," said Richard J. Swan­son, an Indianapolis lawyer representing Westhoven. 
"Everyone is afraid of AIDS -afraid its costs will be catastrophic," he added. 
"We want to send the mes­sage that this is not the ap­propriate way to deal with it." 
As the cost of health insur­ance premiums has risen, a growing number of employ­ers have switched to self-in­surance plans in an effort to cut costs. A self-insured company creates its own fund to pay medical expenses for employees, rather than contracting with an insur­ance company for coverage. 
Money that would have been used to pay insurance premiums is instead placed in the company's self-insur­ance fund. Benefits for hos­pital and doctor services are paid from this fund. 


-~-------~·~-----­
.....--~--------~~~--~-----­
Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, September 3, 1990 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager .•....... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager .......•.... Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ........ Joe Zadrozny Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .•..Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .....•................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ..•.................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, IS encouraged. 
U.S. fails to justify invasion of Panama· 
Dear Editor: 
I was saddened and sickened, but not surprised, to see Rick Acker's defense of U.S. imperi­alism and self-righteousness in his article comparing the recent invasions of Panama and Kuwait. (The Observer, Aug. 
29) Yes, Iraq's invasion of Kuwait was "naked aggres­sion;" however, so was the U.S. invasion of Panama, and Bush is, indeed, showing himself to be the hypocrite he is. 
Claiming the United States showed respect for the Panamanian people is just plain twisted. The U.S. has never showed respect for the coun­tries it has invaded-of course, the very act of invasion shows incredible disrespect for a country and its people. Just be­cause a large portion of the Panamanian people supported the end result of removing Noriega from power, this does not mean that the U.S. can uni­laterally decide to change a government that it does not like. 
In pursuit of this goal, I would hardly call a couple of thousand of civilian deaths "scrupulously avoid[ing] killing civilians"-the exact number is up for debate and may never be known, but it is certainly higher than the official U.S. figures which, in other situations, such as Vietnam, have been signifi­cantly distorted to serve the government's interests. 
Installing the "democratically elected" government is hardly justification, especially since this version of democracy can be regarded as such in only the most narrowly defined sense. Deciding between a ruthless dictator and a benign "fat cat arista.rat" (as the Panamanian president has been character­ized) is not a hard choice; how­ever, as in the case of the United States, it does not pro­vide any real alternative. 
Acker claims that, as opposed to Iraq, the United States "had a legitimate national security problem." Of course, he does not say what this was. Presumably, he means drugs, which has become the source of a great deal of demagoguery but little substance since the so-called drug war was de­clared-from all indications the flow of drugs through Panama has not abated at all-or the restoration of democracy, which the U.S. has used as an excuse in many of its invasions. Actually, it was just one more instance of the U.S. using force to retain hegemony. Regardless, it is pure hubris on the part of the U.S. to decide that its security must come at the expense of another coun­try's sovereignty-a view which is as dangerous as it is out­moded. 
Yes, in contrast to Acker's claim, the U.S. invasion was a violation of Panamanian sovereignty and international law-it violated, among others, the United Nations Charter, the Rio Pact, the Charter of the Organization of American States and Panama Canal Treaty. On top of that, trying to put a benevolent face on the 
U.S. actions by essentially say­ing that the U.S. made good by buying Panama off with $100 million-a small fraction of the damaged caused by the invad­ing forces-is unconscionable. 
Finally, a brief mention should be made of the current 
U.S. 
role in the Gulf. The U.S. is certainly not there solely be­cause of Iraqi "naked aggres­sion"-there have been many other instances of aggression where the U.S. has not acted at all. If stopping this aggression were Bush's priority, it could be done more properly with a U.N. peacekeeping force-Bush missed an historic opportunity to use the United Nations­rather that unilateral action eventually accompanied by a partial U.N. blessing which, to the U.S., is icing on the cake and nothing more. No, Bush is more interested in control of oil which does not belong to the U.S., but which it claims as its own to satisfy a highly addictive petroleum habit. I wonder how the U.S. would react if the millions of starving Ethiopians came over to the 

U.S. 
and took over some corn fields and grain elevators in order to get enough food to survive. I hardly think the reac­tion would be one of open arms. So, how can we justify the use of force on the part of the U.S. in the Middle East not for freedom and democracy­which are code words U.S. presidents use when they need an excuse-but to retain con­trol of some dead dinosaurs? 


Kurt Mills Off-Campus August 30, 1990 
The Viewpoint Department is starting a weekly feature highlighting students' opinions on selected campus issues. The first topic is student parking at Notre Dame. What do you like or dislike about the current parking situation? What would you change and how? We're interested in your thoughts! Write them down and send them to P.O. Box Q, The Observer, 
Notre Dame, IN 46556. The deadline for submissions is 5 p.m. Friday, September 7. 
DOONESBURY 
I !  SOIA/HAT WOUW YOU  
LIK£ TO CHifr  
A80UT 70/?AY,  
&UrlONT~  



.49 CW/3 OF 7H& HAVB-NOTS, I/t1 PRffT7Y ~AlJO(ff 7HI5 Pf?lJP05£;f) CAPfTAL-6AIN5 
TAX aJT FOR 'THii HAVeS, HAV6­HAP5 ANI? WIU;HAVBS/ 
AU.. TH/3 FIV CA75 ARE JiST $TT!N' FArreR, UJHIW 'THl3 Re5T OF U!:> SfT OUT IN TH£; CDUJ.' 7H8S£; P/30PU: AR£: 
R?.eeZIN' US OUT/ YOU KNOW 
/I./HAT I CAU IF I COINW 
A PHRAS£;-TH£3 COW IJJAR! 
~ 

READ MY Ll PSI DAN l You'RE To OLD To BE DRAFTED AND You'RE THE VIC£-PRESIDENT. You DON'T N£ED TO JOIN THE NATIONAL 
G!UARD, AG,A.INi 
Summer development destroys campus forests and wildlife 
Dear Editor: 

Over the summer, while few people were on campus, the University tore down five acres of woods, stacked the trees in huge piles, and burned them. A Notre Dame worker expressed his disgust to me about the devastation, and commented that the University "just sent in the demolition crew without letting anyone know." 
These woods were on the corner of Juniper and Douglas, and were connected to 480 acres that are home to many deer and other wildlife. I knew that if they cut much further into the woods, they would wipe out about thirty deer beds. They did not go that far yet, but many plants and animals were destroyed. 
I familiarized myself with the beauty of Notre Dame's land by taking many walks on the 580 acres of forests and fields that surround the campus. What I feared would happen-total development-has already started. The biggest problem is that few people made a cognitive connection to what lived on the destroyed property and what was lost. As the destruction was taking place, I talked with people and gathered support by circulating a petition to stop the deforestation, calling up the news stations and papers to publicize the problem, and bringing friends out to Notre Dame's wilderness so they themselves could see what was at stake. 
The University burned five acres of trees for a parking field. The shame is that the tress were lost in vain. A hand­full of people actually saw the woods before they were gone; The wood could have been made into paper or lumber; Art and architecture students could have used some of the trees for creative projects; The trees could have been cut up into firewood, and the heat actually used. 
Notre Dame is one of , if not the, largest land-owners in St. Joseph County. That means Notre Dame is one of the largest oxygen producers in the area and, therefore, a great help in decreasing the concentration of green house gases in the atmosphere.The 580 acres of forest surrounding our campus is such a tremendous resource not only for ourselves, but also for the other living creatures that live among us, and should be protected as a gesture of true neighborliness for the total community of creation. 
I have put together a slide show of the land that the University owns, and of the great mysterious animals that live hidden from our awareness. I ask everyone from student to teacher. and from university worker to Administrative person to come and see the unknown wilderness in our own backyard on Thursday, Sept. 6 in the 
C.S.C. at 7:30 p.m. Then, perhaps, we as a community can start to foster an ecologically sound attitude with out immediate surroundings, and renew our connection to the rest of creation. 
San Nigro Off Campus August 30, 1990 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'I quote others the better to express myself.' 
Michael Montaigne 


------------------~-~------~---­
-~------~-~-~---~-----------­
Accent 
Monday, September 3, 1990
page 9 
Spike Lee makes it mo' better 
SHONDA WILSON friend and current manager, entirety. Despite the criticism accent writer "Giant" (Spike Lee), a compul­that Lee received for the sive gambler whose habit leads "overpowering" music 
"Mo' Better Blues," the to the powerful and tumultuous throughout the film, the music newest Spike Lee film release, climax of the film. This climax only seemed to reaffirm the plot indeed leaves the viewer asking and its resolution, like any with each vocal instrument. Lee for mo' .The combination of the Spike Lee film, are open enough recognizes the unique ability of brilliant creativity that is Lee, to allow for various interpreta­jazz to "speak" to its listeners, the variety of talk-to-me in­tions. Some might say at the thus, using his paternal strumentals and vocals that close of the movie Bleek had a background in jazz to artfully make up the soundtrack of the change of heart, realizing that fuse drama and music. movie, and the versatility (not there is more to his life than to mention sex appeal) of the music. Others might argue that This fusion creates a work of Academy Award winner for he simply projected his all-con­art that is more than just a Supporting Actor in Glory, suming dream to another. movie. Lee wrote, produced Denzel Washington, make up and directed a modern-day what could only be called "a Regardless of the interpreta­musical for the screen of one Spike Lee joint." tion Lee, as always. provides us man's passion for music and 
Relationships are an integral with a quality film that speaks how it controlled his life. part of the make-up of this film. to all through an Afrocentric Valuable in its entertaining and Set in Harlem, New York, Mo' perspective. The musical con­educational perspective, Mo' Better Blues tells the story of tributions from the Branford Better Blues provides Bleek (Denzel Washington). a Marsalis Quartet made up of entertainment through music, jazz musician involved with two Branford Marsalis, Kenny not to mention Lee's talent for women who remain secondary Kirkland, Robert Hurst. Jeff humor, and education through to his true love, music. 'Twain' Watts, and featuring a taste of African American 
Another secondary relation­Terence Blanchard comple­culture. This film would be ship involves Bleek's childhood ment each scene in the film's entertaining for any audience. 
f .... ,.' 
.':·i~~2. 

First Confessions 
Terrifying story of a young boy who comes face to face with God . .. and lives 
BILL ROSEMANN that during that span of mo­Engulfed by the ebony closed again and I was left to through an insufficient answer, accent writer ments, my sanity threatened to silence, I searched wildly for a ponder my pious faux-pas. Go­I was buried by the decree to plunge into the murky chasm of chair, only to discover some ing over my speech in my head, say an unearthly number of Our 
Some say these are scary oblivion. Forced into a celestial sort of skinny, padded rail. I knew I had said it correctly, so Fathers and Hail Marys. Gruffiy times: ecological decay, im­spotlight, my fevered mind Oblivious to the fact that this I must have presented it in the blessed, I was sent limping pending war, and more New blocked out the list I had mem­was a kneeler, I plopped myself wrong fashion. Feeling around, from the dank coffin, holding Kids on the Block albums orized, and I was forced to in­down and prepared to speak. I located a phone intended for my shredded ego in a bloody threatening to engulf all we vent unprecedented infractions. Gathering myself as best I those with hearing fist. hold dear in a noxious cloud of Embezzlement and grand could, I began to state my case . impairments. I figured Yahweh doom. Many cling to loved ones larceny replaced skipped .. and then it happened. A had gone high-tech and wanted Wandering aimlessly, I found while others scurry to the com­masses and fights with my small window flew open and me to use His hotline. I picked myself on the beloved school forts of blissful intoxication. But brother as my floundering God told me to be quiet. up the receiver and once again playground. A young chum I ... I scoff in the face of the brain screamed through Ihe. made my report only to have named Larry inquired, "So, ­impending Armageddon, Giant Scroll of Heinous Deeds. Somehow, I held back the God order me to put the phone what did Father say to you?" because I have survived a jour­The torturous moments urge to run shrieking out of the back. Then it dawned on me: the ney through the steaming bow­dragged on until my name was enclosure, figuring the crotchety face in the window els of Hell, known as my first called and I was herded into a Almighty would probably be By then I had entered a was not Jehovah, but was in confession. dark closet. pretty pissed. The little window severe panic and was dripping reality the feared parish priest, 
in sweat. As my fragile psyche Father Hines. I felt as Dorothy 
By some stroke of majestic 
exploded into a shower of must have, pulling back the good fortune. I had managed to screaming shards, I groped for curtain to find the lowly Oz. escape the tendrils of this an escape hatch. Suddenly the madly flipping switches and 
-
ritual until the fifth grade. With squinting eyes appeared once screaming into a booming mi­a gleam in her eye and a high more and a clap of thunder crophone. piercing cackle, my religion commanded me to speak. My Climbing onto the swing-set, teacher gleefully announced tongue fled down my throat as I Larry and I swapped stories that confession would be ad­was frozen by a gaze that and laughed at each other ministered the coming Friday. I surely cleaved a white-hot path soundly. Putting the whole mess suppose it was scheduled for to my very soul. Swallowing behind us, we enjoyed the the end of the week so we could loudly, I proceeded to squeak afternoon sun and proceeded to rack up more sins. My entire out the Act of Contrition. see who could spit the furthest ­class had, of course, made nu­off the swings ... merous confessions and were For some unknown reason, ... I'm all right now, and well versed in its trappings. God decided to lecture me right although I still wake screaming And so, wielding a firm ten­there, after repeated warnings at night, I think the support year-old's grasp on the nature to speak quieter, on the per­group and counseling are be­of sin, I was marched into an verse nature of my transgres­ginning to do some good. So -­ominous church and ordered to sions. Lashing out in true Old that's why I have no tolerance contemplate my crimes against Testament wrath, the voice de­for these whining doom-sayers . humanity. manded to know why this was .. for only I have seen the face 
I freely admit to the world, my first confession. Stumbling of God . . . and lived. 


-
--------~---~--­
----------~ -----­
Monday, September 3, 1990
page 10 The Observer 
Any interested in playing women's off­campus football, call Jill at 288-0597 or Jennifer at 273-1814.  SPORTS BRIEFS Notre Dame rugby meeting for anyone interested in playing for the N.D. rugby club should meet in the Haggar Hall auditorium on Wednesday,  The Notre Dame Hockey team will print the ND Hockey Logo on any light colored clothing on Student Activities night for free at the Notre Dame Hockey/Blue Line Club table.  
All rowers returning for the fall season should meet in 118 Nieuwland tonight at 7:30p.m.  Sept. 5 at 5 p.m. No experience or pads necessary. Call Deuce at x3502.  The  Notre  Dame  women's  volleyball  
to pay dues and organize Activities night.  The Sailing Club will have a meeting on Tues.  team lost two matches in the Washington State Invitational Tournament Saturday. After dropping 
Varsity  softball  tryouts will be today  at 4  Sept.  4th  at  the  boathouse  during  afternoon  a close match to Mississippi 15-10, 16-14, 15-8, the  
p.m. in  Loftus.  Freshmen and first year players  practice. Plans for the regatta on Sept. 8th-9th will  Irish lost to Washington State 15-9, 15-3, 15-9.  
should come dressed for practice.  be discussed.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. atlhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
;,=========~---~~~A~B=E~L~T~Y~!-------~T;~:~~Y:E:S:!!;!-------~roUH~E2~~MG~ TICKETS PLEASE!!-GRATEFUL Have 2 USC -need 2 Miami GA DEAD OHIO SHOWS. CALL Also any home game $$$$$$ 
NOTICES 

AND I HAVE A WAD OF MONEY! 
DEBBIE 287-3592. Terri x4837
• SALES REPS WANTED (L, XL, 100% preshrunk cotton) LETS DEALI Ron x3504 TYPING AVAILABLE 
WILL TRADE 2 MICH OR 2 PENNHundreds made, all unique, 
287-4082 '31MMEDIATE OPENINGS PLEASE HELP!!! I need 5 ND/Mich. 
ST GA'S FOR 2 MIAMI OR 2 TENN HEY YOU! $$$$ I will buy yourall psychadellic tickets, stud. or GA; my life GA'S CALL TOM X1441 student tix and/or application. 
30 Ft. Blue & Gold advertising 'GREAT PT. TIME HOURS depends on it. BIG $ & "house" keg 277-5123Joe 233-4065 (we deliver)
Balloon for rent. Custom priveleges at our pre-game party. messages. Signs & Banners for ' $400-$600 WEEKLY Please be my savior &call Missy, 
DESPERATELY SEEKING I NEED 4 MICHIGAN TIX........... your organization. 272-7770! 287-1372.
78 Ford Fairmount 6 cylinder WAY BAD!!!! 233-7440. PAULautomatic, no rust, good tires, 'CAREER OPPORTUNITY SENIOR STUDENT SEASONruns fine, $1275.00, call 
INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN NEED 1 GA & 1 STUDENT TICK football TIX APPLICATIONMark 232-1846
FELLOWSHIP CALL FOR INTERVIEW FOR MICH. PLEASE CALL PAT WANTEDcall x3950 or x1342
BETWEEN 10-12 NOON. MATI AT#1010 One set of season student2.1 cu. ft. Avanti Refrig. $50 x54561. Large Group Meeting FRIENDSHUH 237-0691 
tickets . Will pay for tickets When? Fri. Sept. 7 (7:30pm) WILL BUY YOUR STUDENT 
can trade for junior tix plus $100.00 to you. CallZENITH PC--51/4 & 31/2 
Where? 427 Stanford SELL ME YOUR TICKET APPLICI! F-BALL TICKETS Clint at 289-4914.
FLOPPIES, 30 MEG HARD HEY YOU!!
2. Welcome Picnic DEBBIE 283-2892. CALL STEVE AT 273-9472
DISK,COLOR MONITOR, EPSON
When? Sat. Sept. 8 (3:00pm) ------------------------------------­
FX-85 PRINTER. $1 ,000 OR BEST PLEASE HELP!! 
I PERSONALS

NEED 2 GA FOR PURDUE,Where? Potawatomi Park OFFER. CALL MICHAEL MARX
FOR RENT 

STANFORD, AF, MIAMI'CALL 
BABY WANTED FOR ADOPTION. ALL ARE WELCOME 
AT 239-5585 OR 1-879-9432. I NEED 4 TICKETS, PREFERABLY
DAVEX1407 
Loving couple, both college Questions? Call Sean@ x1910 
STUDENT, TO THE MICHIGAN3 ROOM APTS., 2 PEOPLE PER teachers, unable to have children. 
GUESS WHATI!! GAME.
APT. AT $200 EACH, UTILITIES Husband has adopted sisters. We
TICKETS 

I 
Yes, I need tix, too
INCLUDED. 315 N. TAYLOR, 282­Used Textbooks! NEED 4 GA'S FOR MIAMI GAMt:.
1014. 
25% OFF LIST PRICE CALL GERALD BRANN AT 717­719 E. HOWARD. 2 OR 3
Pandora's Books 297-2192. corner of NO ave. and Howard 
BEDROOM. 1/2 MILE FROM 233-2342 HELP!!!!
CAMPUS. ATIACHED GARAGE. BIG EAT-IN KITCHEN. BIG LIVING 
Parents' first and last chance MORRISSEY LOAN FUND to see an NO football game.
ROOM, BIG DINING ROOM. SCREENED IN PORCH. 277-4469 
Desperately need 2 GA's and one One month student loans up to student ticket for MICHIGAN. 
RHONDA. $250. Inquire at 2nd floor please call AMY (R.) of LaFortune. 11:30-12:30 272-8954
NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable and secure fum. apt: 755 South Bend Ave., 1 bdrm. $265, dep., 
BETH NEEDS TICKETS!!!!! 
LOST/FOUND 

references. 616-483-9572. 
Student tickets needed for Michigan, Miami, Penn State, and FOUND: Watch near Library early 
2 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 MINUTES 
Air Force.
Friday morning. Call Ron x3504 to 

FROM CAMPUS 522 NAPOLEON 
Call Beth at 288-0597
10. 

425 MONTH+DEPOSIT 232-3616 Have 2 STAN. GA's. NeedLOST: BLUE NO FIESTA BOWL PURDUE GA's. Trade? 717-757­HANDBAG AT MICHIANA 
PARTIALLY FURNISHED HOME 1934, Bill.
AIRPORT ON AUGUST 6. CALL WALK TO NO 6838889TONY BROOKS 283-1970 OR 

OR2876389 Need two MIAMI tickets for
234-4961. 

long lost WEAL THY uncle MIKE FROM MICHIGAN -IF YOU Furnished room, air, kitchen, 287-3472 ScottyHAVE MY HANDBAG, PLEASE 
phone line. Close to campus. 272­
CALL ME. 

0615 TICKETS NEEDED!!!I 2 G.A.'s for MICHIGANFOUND: WHY RENT? HOMES FOR $1.00. 2 G.A.'s + 1 Student ticket reddish rimmed glasses REPOS. GOV'T GIVE AWAY for Air Forceoutside of O'Shag this Tues. 
PROGRAMS! FOR 273-9469 Dianecall x4053. 
INFORMATION 504-649-0670 EXT. R-6840. $$$$$$$$$$$
LOST-green Navy seabag. 

Need student tickets for PennLeft behind bookstore 8\26. 
HOUSE FOR RENT -527 S. EDDY State, Miami, and Michigan.
Contains clothes,etc. Please 

ST. -6 BEDROOMS, 2 FULL Will pay outrageous prices. 
call Bart X3285. 

BATHS, LIVING ROOM, EAT-IN Call Dan x1126. KITCHEN AND FINISHED ROOM $$$$$$$$$$$ IN BASEMENT. LEASE
LOST-Green Navy seabag. ,
REQUIRED THROUGH 5/31/91. 
Left behind the bookstore on $720/MO. $600 SECURITY.

8\26. Contains clothes,etc. 

CONTACT T AMMI AT 232-1242.
Please call Bart x3285 A STUDIO IN OLD MANSION NEAR NOTRE DAME 255 PLUS

WANTED 

DEPOSIT CALL 2888595 
Wonted-

Notre Dome-Miani footboU tkket Will pay topS Calll-100-736-0570 
Room for rent 3/4 mile from " ..J
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED Need $$$?Sell 

campus. Live with 4 grad. students SEPT-MAY. TURTLE CREEK your ga's to all
in a friendly, international
APTS. 273-9406. 

home games. utilities. 
atmosphere. $105.00/ month + Call tom x1597.
SITIER NEEDED TWO 

Contact Patty Hickner at 239­
AFTERNOONS AND EVENINGS A $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

6211, work days only. 
WEEK. MUST DRIVE, I NEED 2 MICH. GA'SKNOLLWOOD AREA CALL277­NAME YOUR PRICE!!!

8380 

#3501 -FOR SALE $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
WANTEO-TIX MIA-N.D. GAME 

COLOR TV AND VCR RENTALS: 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOMECALL 800-323-7687 19" COLOR TV, TWO 
GAMES.272-6306 SEMESTERS $110, ONE SEMESTER $80. VCR, TWO 
NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U.,
roommate wanted 

SEMESTERS $110, ONE 
AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT to share 3-bedroom at 
SEMESTER $80. 
X2088castle point apt. 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­callli tan: 
5959. 
NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, P.S.U.,
239-5692 (work) AND MICHIGAN-RING ERIK AT287-2528(home)

-
On Notre Dame's doorstep. Oak 
X2088 
Hill condo like new condition, 2 bedrooms, 2 baths. Choice Patties is now hiring part-time 
location in complex. $65,900. 
Will trade 2 MIAMI GA's for 4 AIRhelp.Kitchen,cashier,ice 
CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE 
FORCE GA's. Call x1363.
cream.Fiexible hours.We can 

REALTY 282-2351. adjust our schedule to yours. Call 
Desperately need 1 Michigan 
255-5525. 

are responsible, caring people Will trade ANYTHING.$$$$ 
especially for MICH and MIAMI. CALLX2819 
ready to share our love with a X4985 
much wanted baby. Medical PENN ST. TIX NEEDED 
expenses paid. Confidential and legal. Please call collect anytime Need 1 student ticket for Mich. and CALL scon 234-3356 3for Miami 
except Tues/Thurs. 317-743-4512. $$$$$$ Call Dave 1862 If you're not using your football ticket application, please call Jim al 
hiag I NEED 4 MICHIGAN TICKETS!!!! 288-9266. I'm desperate and GAORSTUD. wealthy. 
NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIXS CHRIS 273-9355 $$$$$$$ 
PLEASE CALL KARIN AT Need Michigan tickets 
X1992 NEED 2 MICHIGAN TICKETS call Molly at 4189 $$$$$$ JULIE X2569 CALL SAFEWALK FOR AN I need two Stanford GA's BAD!! 
ESCORT ON CAMPUS... Need 2 Mich. GA's. Will trade Parents will take back tuition 
EVERY NIGHT 8PM-2AM 

Penn State or Air Force. Also if I don't come through!!!!!!!! CALL 283-BLUE will to pay big $. Call Jim at Call Mike X3506 x1723 BEST BUDDIES ! 
NEED 2 MICH GA'S BEST BUDDIES ! 
Help! I NEED 2-4 PURDUE BEST BUDDIES !
CALL LORI1918TICKETS!WILL PAY BUCKSI! 
Come & see what we are ! 

(GA's) call #34901! 
Mandatory meeting: Wed., Sept. 5th at 7 PM WANNA TRADE??? 

NEED 2 MIAMI STUD TIX 
Don't Wait in the LONG LINE Center for Social Concerns 
CALL AMY 1918 
sell your Football ticket application to me and make JUNIORS $$$$CALL ED 277-8974 
WANTED--ND-MICH TIX(4). JUNIORS WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL 
JUNIORS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
COLL:1-312-745-7210. 
I need student or GA's 
The Class Cruise is Coming! forMICHIGAN and MIAMI 
September 13, 1990 Will pay big bucks!!! I!!! 
Tickets will be on sale in the CALL TOM 271-8245 
I NEED GA'S TO PENN STATE 
class office daily from 3:00­CALL KENNY AT 271-9349 

5:00 beginning Sept. 5. !NEED MONEY?i need 3 TIX to!I 
Cups, food and LOTS of fun. !sept.15 NO-MICH. gen. ad. or! 
Tickets are $20. lstud. =O.k. Older bro +sis !1!111 
NEED MICHIGAN AND MIAMI TIX 
$$$$$ CALL 4229 $$$$$ coming for 1st game $$3022! 
DON'T MISS IT! WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR 5 GA'S ATI need 2 Student Michigan To the beautiful brunette in theANY HOME GAME 232-6715ticketslllll green sweater. I'd like to meet you
$$$$$$$$$$$$ again.
MUST HAVE 4 MICH GA'S. $$$$
PLEASE Call Anne Saturday?
DEBBIE x2982 at 288 0597 

8:00? I need 2 Michigan GA's for Hacienda? -Sid 
Need 2 Miami GA's 
my Mom + Dad's 34th wedding
Call Matt x3630 
WANTED 277-4838 Campus rock band PHOENIX anniversary-PLEASE! Sarah 
Okay, any student tickets for looking for lead singer. Classic Purdue, or any GA's for Michigan, 
$$$will trade 4 PURDUE GA's and rock --no wimps!
please call Paige at x2980. This is CA$H for 2 MICH GA's John
serious. call Peter x1414 
x1187 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $5 HAIRCUTS!!!!
WILL PAY CASH for 1 student or 
REGULAR & ROTC 

NEED 2 MICH. TIX! GA Air Force tick X1187 G.A'S OR STUD. 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP CALL x3771 or x3791 HELP!! Need 4 Stud. Mich. 

1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST tickets for hometown buddies SOUTH BEND $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ driving all the way up from 

S.C. Call Caroline at x3838. 
233-4767 

H E L Pill DESPERATELY DESIRED! TWO 
Need tix for Miami, Penn State, Air NEED 6 MIAMI GA'S 4 FAMILY Michigan GAsl Will PAY BIG! 
Force! 

WILL ACCEPT 3 PAIRS Please call Kathy 277-9406 or call Julie X1992
Mike 273-9471. CALL JEFF@277-3998 
PAYING TOP$$$$$ Any girls Iron NO and SMC whoNEED 1 or 2 Miami GA or would like to work in Keenan'sWANTED student tix.Name your price .. 
pizza shop, ZALAND, call Thorn atOne set of season student tickets. 
call x 3285 x3334 for information. Its a goodWill pay for tickets plus 50.00 to place to meet 300 guys with you. Call Doug at x1245. 

Keenan Revue tickets. Prepare now!
HELPII TO HELL WITH BOOKS!!I Desperately need 2 GA's for NO vs I NEED A MICHIGAN STUD TKT I need Michigan tickets, 
COUCH & 10 speed bike.272-6306 ticket-student or GA. Call Barry at Penn State. Willing to pay big$!! How desperate am I? Call Chris at student or GA. Call 4189 
1765 after 6pm. Call 283-4321. x4020 to find outl and ask for Molly.
Chicago Tribune carriers Two airline round-trip tickets from needed for immediate campus Newark to HELPIIII I NEED 1 STUDENT NEED 2 GA'S FOR MIAMI, My poor friends never went to 
KATIE MCBRIDE -morning delivery. South Bend Oct. 12-14. $215 MICHIGAN TICKET-BIG BUCKSI!I PURDUE,MICHIGAN, an Irish game. Please sell me 259-6710

Some collecting required each. Call Leo (201) 922-CALL MO x4805 STANFORD, OR PENN STATE. your Mich. student tixl Joni and dependibility a must. 2184 PLEASE CALL JOANNE X4802. 1839 

Sax player formerly of 

Call City News Service, PLEASE HELP ME Ill! I 
Boathouse Blues Band seeks 232-3205. Beige Carpet Desperately need MIAMI G.A.'s 
group. Blues, Funk, Jazz, Rock
$$$$$$$$$$$ 
GREAT DEAL!
1 yr. old 6x12 Contact Bill at 273-96416 USC tickets for 3 Miami GAs ­& Computer desk 
Wen ted good deal 
1 ROOMMATE NEEDED TO Please sell me your tickets II!! 
other offers welcome 
6 MIAMI TICKETS
SHARE VICTORIAN HOUSE IN ARE YOU GAY, LESBIAN, OR

Students or General 
-Chrissy x4828 x2630
HISTORIC PARK AVE. Call Cathy at 273-9624. 
BISEXUAL? Weekly discussion 
Admission
NEIGHBORHOOD. LESS THAN 2 

groups forming. For info call Carol MI. FROM CAMPUS. $300/MO + HELPIIII NEED MIAMI STUD OR 
Need 1 Michigan stud.
In ony section 
232-3330 or Mike 237-0788. 

HEY EE'S: Soph-Senior level Coil Chuck collect ofler B pm Please call Peter x1802 
1/2 UTIL. CALL PROF. GIAMO GA TICKETS! PLEASE CALL 
(716) 924-5045 ond
books--Cheap!! Call Steve, 
~ 239-7207 OR 289-3668. KATHY X1704 $$$ sdgf
on lime Sot. ond Sun.
272-4108
~::"·,.~:f_! .::---...__...----:_·--~:::~':'·------------------­
l 

Scoreboard
Monday, September 3, 1990 
page 11 

BASEBALL STANDINGS U.S. OPEN 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Results Sunday of the $6.35 million U.S. Open Sergi Bruguera and Tomas Carbonell, Spain, del.
East Dtvlsk>n Women
tennis tournament held at the USTA National Nelson Aerts and Danilo Marcelino, Brazil, 7-6, (8­
w L Ft:l CJ! L10 Streak Singles
Tennis Center (seedings in parentheses): 6), 6·4.
Boston 76 57 .571 z-10-0 Won tO fourth Round
Men Mixed Doubles 
Toronto 70 64 .522 6112 z-5-5 Won4 Gabriela Sabatini (5), Argentina, del. Helena
Singles Second Round 

Detroit 64 70 .478 t2 t/2 z-7-3 Lost t Sukova (11), Czechoslovakia, 6-2, 6-t.
Fourth Round 
Rachel McQuillan, Australia, and Kelly Evernden, Pete Sampras (12), Palos Verdes, Calif., del.
Milwaukee 63 69 .477 t2 t/2 z-8-2 Won3 Mary Joe Fernandez (8), Miami, def. Jud~h New Zealand, del. Julie Richardson, New Zealand, Thomas Muster (6), Austria, 6-7 (6-8), 7-6 (7-5), 6­
Baltimore 60 72 .455 t5t/2 z-2-8 Lost 3 Wiesner (15), Austria, 6-3, 6·2. 
and David MacPherson, Australia, 4-6, 6·2, 6-3. 4,6-3.
Cleveland 59 74 .444 t7 2-8 Lost 7 Leila Meskhi, Soviet Union, del. Linda Ferrando,Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, Spain, and Jorge Ivan Lendl (3), Czechoslovakia, del. Gilad Bloom,
New York 56 77 .42t 20 4-6 Lost4 Italy, 7·6 (7-4), 6-t. · 
Lozano, Mexico (5), del. Brenda Schultz, 
West Division Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere (9), Switzerland, del . 
Israel, 6-0, 6-3, 6-4. 
Netherlands, and Tomas Smid, Czechoslovakia, 7 • 
w L Ft:l CJ! L10 Streak Martina Navratilova (2), Aspen, Colo., 7-5, 3-6, 6-3. 
David Wheaton, Excelsior, Minn., del. Kevin 6 (7-5), 7-6 (8-6). 
Oakland 83 50 . 624 z-6-4 Wont Doubles
Curren, Austin, Texas, 7-5, 7-6 (7-1), 4-6, 6-4 . 
Zina Garrison, Houston, and Rick Leach, Laguna John McEnroe, Cove Neck, N.Y., del. Emilio
Chicago 76 56 .576 6112 z-4-6 Lost 1 Second Round 
Beach, Calif., del. Robin WMe, San Diego, and 
Texas 67 66 . 504 16 z-4-6 Lost 1 Patty Fendick, Sacramento, Cal"·· and Zina 
Sanchez (7), Spain, 7-6 (8-6), 3-6, 4-6, 6-4, 6-3. 
Shelby Cannon, Knoxville, Tenn., 3-6,6-1, 6·3 . Doubles
California 67 67 .500 161/2 6-4 Wont Garrison, Houston (7), def. Claudia Porwik and 
Elizabeth Smylie and Todd Woodbridge, Australia Third Round 
Kansas City 66 67 .496 17 z-5-5 Wont Wi~rud Probst, West Germany, 7-5, 7-5. 
(8), def. Shannan McCarthy, Alpharetta, Ga., and 
Seattle 65 69 .485 18 1/2 4-6 Lost 1 Kathy Jordan, Palo Alto, Cal"·· and Elizabeth
Guy Forget, France, and Jakob Hlasek, 
MaliVai Washington, Swartz Creek, Mich., 7·5, 7-6
Minnesota 60 74 .448 231/2 5-5 Wont Smylie, Australia (4), del. Nathalie Tauziat, France, 
Switzerland (7), del. Wayne Ferreira and Piet (7·4). 
and Judith Wiesner, Austria, 6-2, 6-3. 
Norval, South Africa, 6-3, 6-2. 
Natalia Zvereva, Soviet Union, and Jim Pugh,Patrick Galbraith, Tacoma, Wash., and Kelly Jones, 
NAllONAL LEAGUE Third Round 
Palos Verdes, Calif. (1 ), del. Natalia Medvedeva, San Diego, del. Grant Connell and Glenn
East Dtvlsk>n Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario, Spain, and Robin WMe,
Soviet Union, and Kelly Jones, Escondido, Calif., 
w L Ft:l LID Streak San Diego (5), del. Lise Gregory, South Africa, and
Michibata, Canada (4), 4-6, 7-6 (8-6), 6-4. 
6-t, 7-5.
New York 76 55 .580 7-3 Won6 Gretchen Magers, San Diego (11 ), 6·3, 6·1.
Andrew Castle, Britain, and Roger Smnh, 
Manon Bollegraf, Netherlands, and Michael
Pittsburgh 76 56 .576 1/2 z-4·6 Wont Larisa Savchenko and Natalia Zvereva, Soviet
Bahamas, del. Royce Deppe, South Africa, and 
Mortensen, Denmark, del. Elise Burgin, Baltimore, Bret Garnett, Columbia, S.C., 6·4, 6-4. 
Montreal 69 63 . 523 7112 5·5 Lost t Union (3), del. Mercedes Paz and Gabriela 
and Laurie Warder, Australia, 6-3, 6·3 . Anders Jarryd, Sweden, and Christo van
Chicago 62 70 .470 t4t/2 3·7 Lost2 Sabatini, Argentina (9), 6-7 (5·7), 6-4. 6·4. 
Elna Reinach and Pieter Aldrich, South Africa (3), Rensburg, South Africa, del. Peter Doohan and Philadelphia 62 70 .470 t4t/2 4-6 Lost t 
del. Peanut Louie Harper, San Francisco, and Laurie Warder, Australia, 6-4, 3·6, 6·2. 
St. Louis 60 73 .45t t7 3·7 Lost3 Charles Beckman, Louisville, Ky., 6-1, 1·6, 6·4. 
West Division W L Ft:1 CJ! L10 Streak 
Cincinnati 77 55 .583 7-3 Won 2 
Los Angeles 7t 62 .534 6 t/2 z-7-3 Won 1 TRANSACTIONS 
San Francisco 67 66 .504 10 1/2 z-4-6 Wlo0s~; 
San Diego 61 71 .462 16 z-3-7 
Houston 60 73 .45t 17 1/2 6-4 Lost 1 BASEBALL National League 
Atlanta 53 80 .398 24 1/2 6-4 Won 3 American League ATLANTA BRAVE5-Called up Paul Marak and Marvin Freeman, pitchers; Jimmy Kremers and 
z-denotes first game was a win BALTIMORE ORIOLEs-called up Kevin Hickey, Kelly Mann, catchers; and Mike Bell, first baseman. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE pitcher, and Jeff McKnight, infielder, from from Richmond of the International League. DALLAS COWBOYs-Waived Terrence Flagler,Saturday's Games Rochester of the International League. 
CHICAGO CUB5-Called up Damon Berryhill, Lorenzo Hampton and Broderick Sargent, running 
Boston 15, New York I BOSTON RED SOX-Called up Billy Jo Robidoux, catcher; Lloyd McClendon, outfielder; and Las backs; Steve Folsom, tight end; Derrick Shepard, Chicago 9, California 5 first baseman; Jeff Stone and Phil Plantier, Lancaster and Jose Nunez, pitchers, from Iowa of Texas 3, Oakland 2 outlielders; Scott Cooper, third baseman; and the American Association.
Toronto 8, Cleveland 0 Daryl Irvine, pitcher, from Pawtucket of the wide receiver; Randy Shannon, linebacker; Greg Detroit 9, Minnesota 5 International League. Johnson and Dave Franks, offensive guards; and 
CINCINNATI RED5-Called up Tim Birtsas, pitcher, from Nashville of the American Association
Milwaukee 4, Baltimore 3 CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Called up Shawn Mike Graybill, offensive tackle. Placed Keith 
and Rosario Rodriguez, pitcher, from Chattanooga
Seattle 3, Kansas City 0 Hillegas and Steve Rosenberg, pitchers; Rodney Jenning, tight end; Willis Crockett, linebacker; and 
of the Southern League.
Sunday's Games McCray, outfielder; Jerry Willard, catcher; and Matt Michael Williams, wide receiver, on the waived­
HOUSTON ASTR05-Called up Brian Meyer,
Toronto 3, Cleveland 0 Stark, designated hitter, from Vancouver of the injured list. 
p~cher, from Tuscon of the Pacific Coast League 
Minnesota 4, Detrort 3 Pacific Coast League. HOUSTON OILERs-Waived Joey Banes and Milwaukee 4, Baltimore 2 DETROIT TIGER5-Called up Scott Aldred, Doug Williams, offensive tackles; Tommy Robison, 
and AI Osuna, pitcher, from Columbus of the 
Southern League. Rcalled Andujar Cedeno, 
California 1, Chicago 0 pitcher, and Milt Cuyler, outfielder. offensive guard; Kenny Jackson and Frank Miotke, 
shortstop, and Luis Gonzalez, infielder, from
Oakland 4, Texas 2 MINNESOTA TWIN5-Called up Pedro Munoz, wide receivers; Victor Jones, running back; Billy 
Columbus.
Kansas City 8, Seattle 0 outfielder; Jack Savage, pitcher; and Scott Leius, Bell, cornerback; Chuck Hartlieb and Don 
LOS ANGELES DODGERs-Activated Pat Perry,
Boston 7. New York 1 shortstop, from Portland of the Pacific Coast McPherson, quarterbacks; Richard Newbill and 
pitcher, from the 21-day disabled Us!. Called up
Monday's Games League. . . John Brantley, linebackers; and Brian Lowe, kicker. Toronto (Key 9·6) at Detroit (Terrell3·2), t :35 p.m. OAKLAND ATHLETICs-called up Mike Bordick, LOS ANGELES RAM5-Agreed to terms with
Jose Vizcaino, infielder, and Damn Fletcher, Minnesota (Guthrie 5-7 and Abbott 0·2) at Milwaukee (Knudson 10-7 and Krueger 5·7), 2, 2 p.m. infielder, from Tacoma of the Pacific Coast League. Kevin Greene, linebacker, on a three-year contract.
catcher, from Albuquerque of the Pacific Coast . Seattle (Young 6-14) at Baltimore (Telford 1-1), 4:05p.m. SEATTLE MARINERs-called up Scott Medvlrl, Signed Michael Stewart, safety, to a two-year
League and Jim Poole, pitcher, from San Antomo 
of the Texas League. Purchased the contract of Oakland (Sanderson 13·9) at Boston (Kiecker 6·6), 7:35 p.m. Melendez and Rich Delucia, pitchers; and Dave NEW ORLEANS SAINTs-Waived Alvin Lee, 
California (McCaskill 10-9) at New York (Leary 8-16), 4:05p.m. Russ swan, Vance Lovelace, Dave Burba, Jose contract. 
Darren Holmes, pitcher, from Albuquerque. 
MONTREAL EXPOs-Purchased the contract of
Kansas City (Appier 11-4) at Chicago (King 8·4), 7:35p.m. Cochrane and Mike Brumley, infiedlers, from Rogee McGee and Derek Washington, wide 
Rolando Roomes, outfielder, from Indianapolis of 
the American Association. Called up Moises Alou, 
Cleveland (Walker 1·4) at Texas (Ryan 12·7), 8:35p.m. Calgary of the Pac"ic Coast League and Mike receivers; Scott Hough, guard; and Derrick Carr, 
Tuesday's Games Gardiner, pitcher, from Williamsport of the Eastern defensive end. 
Seattle at Baltimore, 7:35p.m. League. outfielder, and Howard Farmer, from Indianapolis. 
NEW YORK JET5-Waived Mickey Shuler, tight Oakland at Boston, 7:35p.m. TEXAS RANGERs-called up Chad Kreuter, end.
Activated Nelson Santovenia, catcher, from the 1 5· 
day disabled list.
Toronto at Detroit. 7:35p.m. catcher· Gerald Alexander, pitcher; and Scott SAN FRANCISCO 49ER5-Waived Jim Fahnhorst 
NEW YORK MET5-Called up Julio Machado and 
Kansas City at Chicago, 8:05p.m. Coolba~gh, infielder, from Oklahoma City of the and Antonio Goss, linebackers, and John 
Kevin Brown, pitchers, from Tidewater of the 
Minnesota at Milwaukee, 8:35p.m. American Association, and Bill Haselman, catcher, Shannon, defensive lineman. 
International League.
Cleveland at Texas, 8:35p.m. and Kevin Belcher, outfielder, from Tulsa of the COLLEGEPHILADELPHIA PHILLIE5-Purchased theOnly games scheduled Texas League. 
ILLIN015-Named Richard Jones baseball coach.
contract of Louie Meadows, outfielder, from 
TORONTO BLUE JAYs-called up Carlos Diaz, MUHLENBERG-Named Linda Garrett men's and 
NAllONAL LEAGUE Scranton-Wilkes-Barre of the International
catcher, and Willie Blair, pitcher, from Syracuse of women's cross country coach. 
Saturday's Games League. Recalled Ricky Jordan, first baseman, and 
the International League and Tom Quinlan, third SOUTH CAROLINA-Announced the resignation
New York 6, San Francisco 5 Chuck McElroy and Chuck Malone, p~chers, from
baseman, from Knoxville of the Southern League. of Bailey Weathers, women's swimming coach.
Cincinnati 8, Chicago 1 Scranton-Wilkes-Barre. Philadelphia 3, San Diego 2, 10 innings, 1st game Philadelphia 2, San Diego 1. 2nd game Atlanta 4, St. Louis 3 Montreal 6, Los Angeles 0 
PORTS CALENDAR 
Houston 2, Pittsburgh 1, t 0 innings ESULTS 
Sunday's Games Los Angeles 12, Montreal 5 New York 10, San Francisco 6 
Monday, Sept. 3 San Diego 9, Philadelphia 1 
Women's Volleyball 

Thursday, Sept&Mississippi over Notre Dame t5·10, 16-14, 15·8Cincinnati 6, Chicago 2 
Washington State over Notre Dame t5-9, t5·3, 15· No sports scheduled. No sports scheduled. 
Atlanta 5, St. Louis 0 
9

Pittsburgh 7, Houston 6 Monday's Games Cincinnati (Browning 12-7) at Atlanta (Avery 3-8), 1:10 p.m. 
Tuesday, Sepl4

Chicago (Sutcliffe 0-1) at Montreal (Farmer 0·1 ), 1 :35 p.m. 
Men's Soccer

Philadelphia (Ruffin 6-11) at Pittsburgh (Drabek 17-5), 1:35 p.m. 
Notre Dame 5, Dayton 1 (OT) No sports scheduled. Friday, Sept 7 
New York (Gooden 14-6) at St. Louis (Tewksbury 9-4), 2:15p.m. Men's soccer vs. DUKE, 8 p.m. Houston (Gullickson 8-12) at Los Angeles (Valenzuela t2-t 0), t 0:05 p.m. Women's volleyball hosts the Notre Dame San Francisco (Downs 0-0) at San Diego (Schiraldi 3-7), t0:05 p.m. lnv~ational vs. Evansville, St. Louis and Western 
T.-ay'sGames Wednesday, Sept5 
Mich.
Women's Soccer

Cincinnati at Atlanta, 5:40p.m. 
Notre Dame 5, N. E. Missouri 1 No sports scheduled. 
Chicago at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. 
Philadelphia at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
New York at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 
San Francisco at San Diego, t 0:05 p.m. 
Houston at Los Angeles, t 0:35 p m. 
BURNS PARTY SHOP 
FUNDRAISING RENTAL 
AT THE .ANNUAL 
EQUIPMENT 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
We have a large assortment of equipment to suit every 
fundraising need: 
SEPTEMBER 4, 1990 
• Cotton Candy Machines • Snow Cone Machines 
JACC FIELDHOUSE
• Hot Doggers • Barbeque Grills 
7:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m.
• 
Popcorn Machines •Roasters •Griddles 

• Assorted/Logo Balloons 

• 
Pop Coolers •Dunk Tank 


SPONSORED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE,
• Deep Fryers • Souvenir (T-shirts, etc) 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS
* Choice of FREE DELIVERY or 10% discount 
Burns Party Shop 832 W. Mishawaka Ave. (Corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 
259-4807 259-2833 



,.-----~----­
page 12 
McEnroe 
NEW YORK (AP) -Mac 

magic is alive in the U.S. Open, 
but Martina is gone. 
John McEnroe came out 

roaring, his racket spinning 
winners and his voice barking 
at officials. Four hours and 20 
minutes later, after a noble 
comeback and five-set triumph 
over a usually tireless Emilio 
Sanchez, McEnroe seemed as if 
he were about to float off the 
court. 
No one would have been 

amazed if he did after watching 
him, at age 31, unseeded and 
on the edge of retirement, 
recover his skills and find 
enough energy to beat the No. 7 
Sanchez of Spain 7-6 (8-6), 3-6, 
4-6, 6-4, 6-3 Sunday to reach 
the quarterfinals. 
Four-time women's champion 

Martina Navratilova, a victim 
of a vanishing serve and a 
machine-like groundstroke 
game by No. 9 Manuela 
QB's 
continued from page 16 
for the school, but not for my­self." 
Kevin McDougal compares Holtz to his high school coach, Michael Facteau. He says both are perfectionists, pushing their players hard to succeed. 
"If you can take what they dish out during the week, then you can take it on Saturday," McDougal said. 
After having a good scrim­mage two Saturdays ago, McDougal spent last week watching from the sidelines while he nursed an ankle injury. 
"McDougal did a real good job the first week," Cordelli said. "But anytime you get in­jured, it sets you back." 
Like Hawkins, McDougal had offers to play basketball in col­lege but chose football. He completed 50-of-80 passes for 847 yards and rushed 25 times for 440 yards (an amazing 17.9 yards per carry) as a senior. 
Emfinger ranked him as the fifth-leading "passing and run­ning" quarterback in the nation and SuperPrep called him the lOth-ranked athlete prospect in the country. 
"In high school if you had a lot of talent, they just let you go," McDougal said. "The biggest thing here is checking off the offense and getting the team in the right play. In high school, you don't have to do that too much." 
While it once looked like McDougal might get lost in the depth at quarterback, he now has a chance to get some play­ing time. 
"You hate to see something like that happen with Kelchner, but it does give you a chance to play," he said. "That really gets you working. If we get a lead, they're going to hopefully put me in to get some experience." 
For now, though, McDougal knows he can only get better with practice. 
"When you're going against the best defense in the country, you're going to keep getting better." 
Maple Lane BarberShop 2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 

-~---~~------~~--~­
The Observer Monday, September 3, 1990 
battles back, beats 7th-seed Sanchez 
Maleeva-Fragniere, lost 7-5, 3­
6, 6·3 to make her earliest exit 
herA stnce 1980. 
Maleeva, the oldest of three sisters on the women's tour, reached the quarters here for the third straight year and will next play No. 8 Mary Joe Fernandez. 
Navratilova's serve failed her in the first set after she took a 4-1 lead and then served for the set at 5-4. She seemed oddly nervous, playing too carefully, on a stadium court where she has done so well, She asserted herself, playing more confi­dently in the second set, but wavered again in the final set when she was broken twice to fall behind 5-2. 
Navratilova saved the match briefly by breaking back, but then went down on two critical shots -a brilliant running forehand crosscourt for a win­ner by Maleeva that made it 30­
Clint Johnson thought he would be catching passes in­stead of throwing them when he signed to play at Notre Dame. 
He was recruited as a re­ceiver and is listed as a split end in the Irish media guide, but he has lined up at quarter­back in many fall practices. 
Johnson's biggest asset is his ability to run the ball. He rushed 118 times for 1,099 yards in his senior season at Lake Brantley High School in Altamonte Springs, Fla., and completed 32-of-78 passes for 542 yards. 
If Johnson sees much time this fall, the comparisons to former Irish quarterback Tony Rice may be unavoidable. 
"I really like to run with the ball.~ Johnson said. "I think I've got better speed than Rice, but I don't think my arm is as sharp as his." 
Like the other freshmen quarterbacks, Johnson's biggest adjustment has been going from a star who could improvise in hi h school to a 

PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEETINGS 
TUES  SEPT. 4  7PM  
MON  SEPT. 10  7PM  
Library Auditorium  
~  

Seminar on how to write an effective personal statement with Prof. Marullo 
* Both sessions are mandatory* 
competitor for the back-up po­
know what play to check off to. 
See Castles in the Air 
It will just take some time to 
And learn your way around the world 
_get used to." 
endurance. But on this day the 25-year-old with thick, muscu­lar thighs couldn't cope with the variety of McEnroe's attack and the support that McEnroe received from the packed crowd. 
"It's my biggest win this year," McEnroe said. "The crowd was very into it. At the end, they were very wrapped up and that put me in another gear. At 4-4 (in the fourth set) they gave me a big hand. dropped two quick points and was worried for a second. Maybe it was a goodbye hand, since he could have been serving for the match if I'd lost the point." 
Sanchez dug himself a hole for nine straight games from the end of the third set on when he iost the first point on his service each time. 

l "' 
John McEnroe 
40, and a forehand that Navratilova mishit on match point. The ball hit the net cord, popped in the air and fell back on Navratilova's side to end the match. 
Maleeva, tears in her eyes, ran across court and hugged her husband. Navratilova walked sadly to her seat with a dazed look in her eyes. 
McEnroe, a four-time U.S. Open champion who began the year by getting thrown out of the Australian Open, held his temper in check after an early blowup over a line call. 
Beyond style and touch in his range of shots, he showed the resilience lacking in recent years as he refused to fold after falling behind two sets to one. 
McEnroe kept chipping away, flicking delicate drop shots, leaping for overheads, occa­sionally tossing in a service winner or ace. 
Sanchez, whose 1Oth-ranked younger brother Javier lost to McEnroe in the first round, is noted for his leg strength and 
sition. 

"The biggest thing I've no­ticed here is the athleticism," he said. "At the high school level, you can get away with a lot of things. You have to do every­thing exactly right here." 
Johnson did come to Notre Dame with expectations of be­ing a receiver, but he was also one of the highest-ranked quar­terbacks in the nation. Recruiting scout Max Emfinger ranked him as the No. 2 "passing and running" quar­terback in the country, ahead of Hawkins and McDougal. 
In Saturday's scrimmage, Johnson ran five times for 62 
yards  and  completed  2-of-3  
passes for five yards.  
"Clint is starting to  under­ 

stand what he has to do," Cordelli said. 
Said Johnson, "The biggest thing I have to do is get my as­signments. You just have to 
University of Wisconsin Platteville 
r 


is currently accepting applications for the paid positions of 
Production Staff 
Stop by at the Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune or call 239-5309 to leave your name and telephone number. 

"If you have built castles in the air, now put the 
foundations under them." Henry David Thonoau 
Study in London for $4325 per semester. Includes air fare, resident tuition, field trips, home stay with meals. 
Study in Seville, Spain, for $3625 per semester. Includes resident tuition, field trips, home stay witl\ meals. No foreign language proficiency required. 
Summer program also available in London. 
For further information, write or call: 
Institute for Study Abroad Programs 308 W amer Hall University ofWisconsin-Platteville 1 University Plaza PlattevUle, Wisconsin 53818-3099 
608-342-1726 


Stieb pitches league's ninth no-hitter, a record 
CLEVELAND (AP)-Dave Stieb has always been good enough to throw a no-hitter-just never lucky enough. 
His luck changed Sunday when he pitched his first no-hit­ter. After coming so close so often-four times he went into the ninth inning-Stieb did it, leading the Toronto Blue Jays past the Cleveland Indians 3-0. 
"I wasn't real nervous. I've been there quite a few times," Stieb said almost matter-of­factly. "I was struggling with my control a little bit the whole game. They helped me out by swinging at some balls in the dirt. I could have been in some more jams. 
"I had much better stuff the other times, much better con­trol. I always knew it too~ a lot 
Cleveland didn't come close to a hit against the 33-year-old right-hander. The closest call was Ken Phelps' hard grounder down the right-field line in the eighth inning, which was foul by several feet. 
Stieb had taken no-hitters into the ninth four times before, and he lost three of those with two outs in the ninth. 
This time, Jerry Browne closed it out by hitting a line drive to Junior Felix in right. Stieb wiped his brow, raised his arm and was mobbed by his teammates as the crowd of 23,640-many of them Toronto fans who had made the five­hour drive to Cleveland-gave him a standing ovation. 
Stieb (17 -5) struck out nine and walked four, becoming the 

to 
TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 4 
Afternoon Seminar 
PATRICK GAFFNEY, C.S.C. Associate Professor of Anthropology 
•IRAQ AND THE GULF: BACKGROUND OF THE CRISis• 4:15p.m.-Room 121 Law School 
TUESDAY.SEPTEMBER11 
Panel 
ROBERT C. JOHANSEN Senior Fellow, liPS and DAVID CORTRIGHT Visiting Faculty Fellow, liPS 
•ASSESSING THE MIDDLE EAST CONFUCT: WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS?• 
Moderator: GEORGE A. LOPEZ Fellow, liPS 
4:15p.m.-Room 121 Law School 
INSTITUTE FOR
••• INTERNATIONAl 
llllll~~c;;~!:~ 
pitch a no-hitter. The 17 victo­ries matched his career high, accomplished three times be­fore. 
Cleveland was last held with­out a hit by Dean Chance of Minnesota on Aug. 25, 1967. The last no-hitter pitched in Cleveland Stadium was Len Barker's perfect game, against Toronto, on May 15,1981. 
Stieb's no-hitter was the ninth in the majors this year, a record. 
"Maybe it's not that tough to get one this year," he said. "That's why I got one." 
On Sept. 24, 1988, Stieb had a no-hitter with two outs in the ninth in this same stadium be­fore Cleveland's Julio Franco hit a routine ground ball that took a bad hop over the head of second baseman Manny Lee for a hit. 
"I didn't want a ground ball this time," Lee said. "I wanted to see a fly ball. I didn't want that to happen again." 
Cleveland's hitters agreed that Stieb was less than awe­some. The no-hitter came against a team that has lost seven straight. 
"The way we've been playing, to see that happened I guess probably doesn't surprise too many people," Phelps said. "I've seen him throw better. He's been so close so many times, I guess it was bound to happen." 
Stieb also lost no-hitters with one out to go against Baltimore on Sept. 30, 1988 (Jim Traber singled), and New York on Aug. 4, 1989. He had a perfect game against the Yankees before al-· lowing a double to Roberto Kelly. 
This time, he got the last three outs with ease. Pinch-hit­ter Chris James flied out, and Candy Maldonado, another pinch-hitter, struck out, putting Stieb in a familiar situation. 

· s currently looking for interesting and dedicated people to write for the News Department. If you want to be part of the team that delivers the news to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community each day, then you should attend a meeting on Monday, September 3 in the Sorin room on the first floor of LaFortune at 7 p.m. If you are unable to attend, please call Kelley or Janice at 239-5303. 
-------------------------. 

Receive 50°/o off the daily newsstand price 
FALL TERM SPRING TERM FULL YEAR Monday-Friday $17.25 $17.25 $34.50 Monday-Saturday 20.25 20.25 40.50 Monday-Sunday 56.25 56.25 112.50 Sunday only 36.00 36.00 72.00 
For more information call Greg Kletzly at 283-3246 
..________________________.Mirer was chased out of the 
-NI&4 NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 

CAMPUS (OPEN TO ALL N.D. STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF) 
16" SOFTBALL CO-REC SOFTBALL 
GRAD. STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF ONLY 
TOUCH FOOTBALL TENNIS SINGLES-MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS MIXED DOUBLES 

NOTREDAMEUNDERGRADUATESTUDENTSONLY 
FOOTBALL FOR MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS SINGLES-MEN AND WOMEN TENNIS MIXED DOUBLES FRESHMAN SWIM MEET 
ENTRY DEADLINE: SEPTEMBER 5 
Stieb then walked rookie Alex 

Cole on four pitches before 
Browne lined out to Felix in 
right for the final out. 
Stieb first flirted with a no­

hitter in 1985, when he pitched 
eight hitless innings against 
Chicago before giving up a 
leadoff home run in the ninth. 
The Indians didn't come close 

to a hit, with only seven balls 
leaving the infield. 
Stieb got his second shutout and complete game of the year, striking out the side in the third and sixth innings. He reduced his earned-run average from 3.07 to 2.91. 
Seven of this year's nine no­hltters have come in the American League, a record for a major league. 
Fernando Valenzuela of Los Angeles and Terry Mulholland of Philadelphia have thrown no­hitters in the National League. 
Offense 
continued from page 16 
expected to get the ball into the hands of explosive receivers like flanker Raghib Ismail, split end Lake Dawson and tight end Derek Brown. 
But first this new offensive philosophy requires a major adjustment for the linemen, who must learn to pass-block as effectively as they have run­blocked in the past several years. 
"We're still looking for the right chemistry," said Holtz, growing impatient with the lack of production on offense. "I thought we had it, but we still don't. I've got to look at the films to see where we are." 
Minor injuries to four of the

five starting offensive linemen Saturday didn't help matters. The injuries amounted to a few hip pointers and a groin pull, not to mention the constant pounding to quarterbacks Mirer, B.J. Hawkins and Clint Johnson. 
Mirer completed nine of 16 passing attempts for 86 yards and an interception. He was flushed out of the pocket on numerous occasions and appeared indecisive when the defensive line got particularly good penetration. 
The play which most disturbed Holtz, however, came late in the scrimmage when 
pocket by outside linebacker Scott Kowalkowski and fumbled the ball. Holtz pulled Mirer out of the scrimmage and put Johnson (five rushes, 62 yards) in charge of the top offensive unit. Later, Holtz pulled Mirer aside and dis­cussed the team's offensive 
problems. 
"The defense should be ahead of the game, but not to the extent they are," said Holtz. "We can't get any rhythm on offense. There may be some changes in offensive personnel." 
Holtz did not offer specifics concerning possible offensive changes, but any that occur would likely be on a line which has great depth but little game experience. 
Besides Heldt and Ryan, the starting offensive line features guard Mirko Jurkovic and tackles Justin Hall and Winston Sandri. Hall replaces two-year starter Dean Brown at tight tackle, while Sandri headed into fall camp as the starter at quick tackle. Jurkovic, who has had a history of .knee prob­lems, should join both Hall and Sandri as first-year starters. 
Women's soccer debut has 
•
sizzling success in 5-1 w1n 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team opened its 1990 campaign Sunday afternoon by blazing to a 5-1 victory over Northeast Missouri State be­fore a sun-baked crowd at Alumni Field. 
Susie Zilvitis led the smoke signals on the Irish offense, tallying two goals and pestering the Lady Bulldog defense all afternoon. Yet aside from giv­ing the Irish a needed jump-start in their drive for regional dominance, the performance of Zilvitis and Friends fueled the fires of optimism in the heart of new head coach Chris Petrucelli. 
"I'm happy with our women. In the first 30 minutes, they were really motivated and excited," noted Petrucelli. "They got tremendous chances and took them. This was a really big victory for us, because it is the beginning of something that will continue. We have to repeat this effort." 
For the Irish, a victory against a Top-20 opponent such as Northeast Missouri State is a first. The fact that it came at home in the first game of a new head coach's tenure makes it all the more sweet. 
"This is a very young team,
and I was afraid that they would be tentative." said Petrucelli. But I'm happy with the way they played hard. They
didn't Jay back and relax after the game got going." Although Notre Dame may not have decided to play dead 

first half, the Lady Bulldogs of 
N.M.S.U. did seem to play with more zest in the second half. 
In the first half, Susie Zilvitis opened the season's scoring on an assist from senior midfielder Mimi Suba, putting the Irish up 1-0. Notre Dame was scoring again soon, as freshman Stephanie Porter fed a pass to sophomore Marianne Giolitto, who beat the Lady Bulldog goalie for a 2-0 advantage. 
Approximately five minutes later, the Irish offense came calling again as freshman Mary Kate Kelly drilled an assist to Stephanie Porter, who planted a shot in the back of the net. 
The Irish finished their first­half scoring session when sophomore Marianne Giolitto challenged and beat the Northeast Missouri goalkeeper. Giolitto dribbled to the top of the penalty box, held up and chipped a picture-perfect shot over the head of her charging opponent. 
The Lady Bulldogs netted their lone goal near the close of the first half, as forward Shauna Putnam took a pass from teammate Michele Landa and battled her way through a temporarily dazed Irish defense to score. 
In the second half, the Lady Bulldogs stepped up their ef­forts to no avail, as the Irish 
midfielders cut off hopes of a comeback. Repeated attacks by the Lady Bulldogs were turned back and stymied by the Irish 
defense, in what was a very physical matchup. At the end of the game, one N.M.S.U. player left the field in crutches after Several other players from both teams went out with minor in­juries in the course of the day's action. 
Susie Zilvitis added her sec­ond goal of the afternoon at the 60:30 mark, as she dribbled into the penalty box, dribbled through the Northeast Missouri goalie, and tapped a slow roller into the net for a 5-1 Irish vic­tory. 
"I had some questions about Susie," admitted Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli, "but she proved me wrong today. She can definitely play, and she can definitely score goals. She was the best player on the field to­day." 
Notre Dame's next home game is September 14 against Valparaiso. Before that date, the Irish must pass their two toughest tests of the season as they travel to North Carolina for showdowns with Duke and UNC-Greensboro. 
"This win is good for our 
confidence," beamed Petrucelli. 
"We feel that we can play with 
anybody right now, but I think 
that next week will be a very 
difficult test." 

Research saves lives. 
vt.A . 
mencanHeart
Association Monday, September 3, 1990 

The Observer I David Short 

Freshman defensewoman Andrea Kurek defends against Northeast Missouri State dribbler in a winning effort for the Irish, 5-1. 

specialists in pro bikes 
is welCOming Students back to SChOOl 
by taking 1QOI of1 0 full selectiOn of 
10 

1990 bikes and Summer ClOthing, 
Mon-Frt 10 am-7 pm Sat 9 am 5
• pm 

on N. Ironwood Dr. (between S.R. 23 and Edison)272-0129 
after opening a 4-1 lead in the ~~s~u:fl=e~ri~n=g=a~s~ev~e~r~e~a~n~k~le~in~·~u~ry~.-~;;;:~--------:;iii~=:;=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 

foot wide of goal. With just 40 seconds left in the first half. 
another Irish scoring chance 
was smothered after Pendergast's header was
stopped by Dayton goalie Bob Fitzgerald. Dayton was able to penetrate Notre Dame territory several times, but outstanding defense 
by the Irish allowed the Flyers
only a couple of feeble attempts on goal. Irish defender Mario Tricoci's ability to stifle a num­
her of Dayton drives made him 
a key component of the stingy
defense.
Although the Irish players were happy with the win, they were not entirely pleased with the effort. "We were frustrated by overtime," said co-captain Danny Stebbins. "We should have beaten them in regula­tion." 
At the very least, the four­

----------------------,
I $2.00 1 
-~~~~IIIIo~ FREE DRY CLEANING •
P 

0 · M S t 
pen on. -a · 3 Locations Convienent to Campus: 
207'Dixie Way South  Greenwood Shopping Center  5209 Grape Rd.  
Roseland  Ironwood Dr. & State Rd. 23  272-9462  
_2728093  272_9461  

•-----------------------------.... 
~......................................... 
• • 
• • 
• 

goal explosion gives the Irish • some momentum going into • Durham, N. C., for the • 
Metropolitan Life Classic where they will play Duke Friday • night and North Carolina State • 
Sunday. 
"If the (Dayton) game goes 1-• 1, we might be second-guessing • ourselves. but the burst gives us confidence," said • Pendergast. "Hopefully we'll • bringbackawinortwo."
-t--------------r. 

• • 

• 
• 

-
•
DRIVE STRAIGift 

Schedule Of Classes 
Monday/Wednesday 
6:30am  • 7:30am  Low  Impact  
12:10pm  -12:50pm Low  Impact  
4:00pm  -5:00pm High  Impact  
4:30pm  -5:00pm High  Impact  

5:15pm -6:15pm Combination 
Aerobics JACC Aerobics TBA AerobicsJACC AeroblcsJACC AerobicsJACC 
6:45pm • 7:45pm Water Aerobics ROLFS 9:00pm -1 0:00pm Combination Aerobics ROCKNE 
NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
Classes Start Sept 5 
All Classes Regisler at NVA 
1 

Free Dry Cleaning 1
1

Present this coupon and get $2.00 I worth of dry cleanl'ng I 
I
1
1 
I I

I No Other Purchase Required. II Not valid with other specials. I I
Expires : 9/29/90 I 
..1 
• • 
• • 
• 
• • • 
• • 
• 
• 
Tuesday/Thursday 
12:15pm 4:15pm 4:20pm 5:20pm 9:00pm 
Friday 
4:00pm • 
Sunday 
9:00pm 

• -12:45pm Water Aerobics ROLFS • 
• 
5:15pm Combination HI ROCKNE • 5:20pm Combination AerobicsJACC • 

• 
6:20pm Stretcherclse JACC • 10:00Pm Combination Aerobics ROCKNE • 


• 

5:00pm Combination Aerobics JACC , • 
• -1 O:OOpm Combination Aerobics ROCKNE •
+ 
• 
INDIANA. 

......................................., 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Monday 
Labor Day 
Tuesday 
12 p.m. First Brown Bag Lunch of the academic year. Following the traditional format there will be no seminar speaker. The purpose is to give members, new fellows, and friends of the Institute and opportunity to meet. Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Meatloaf 
Chicken Teriyaki 
Pasta Primavera 
Flaked Tuna 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER BILL WATTERSON 



THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
C 111180 Chronlc:W FeaturM 
12. d~
Olstrlbutecl by Universal Praa Syndicate 
ACROSS 

1 Fellow 5 --to (takes care of) 9 Title of respect for a Parisian 
cleric 13 Protection 15 Breathe rapidly 16 Strike hard 11 Police vehicle 19 Sharp pain 20Atomizer 21 Shows the way 23 Overdue 25 Clark or Tracy 26 Undergarment, 
for short 28 Tiny colonizer 30 Facing the 
pitcher 

33 Measuring sticks 36 Faucet 38--track mind 39 Certain wild flowers 43 Business abbr. 44 Triumphed 45 Hardens 46"Land­alive!" 49 Western Indian 51 Guided 52 W.W. l's Hari 54 Nobelist Wiesel 56 Thistlelike flowers 59 Rubbers 64 Move hesitantly 65 Prodigal son, e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

67 Indigo plant 68 Orient 69Broom-of 
the comics 70 London raincoats, for short 71 Tanguay and Peron 72 Attention­getting sound 
DOWN 
1 Urban transportation 2 Succor 3 Food thickener 4 Type size 5 Ancient Greek rival of Athens &Corn cob 7 Novelist Bagnold a Reserved in manner 9 Appearance 10 Classroom feature 11 Baseball ploy 12--on (goads) 14 Songbird 18 -culpa 22 Narrow inlet 24lnternational accord 26 Witchcraft 27-room 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
():01-\, fl.. TRICK'{ ~E. '{OJ 1-\f>.'IE TO \JSE G-lC\Jl\JS f>.l'-{1) \Mf>.G\W\'l'i N\1\'1\BERS 
RJR \\-\IS. 

BILL WATTERSON 
\-\OW \)\\) YOV 
LEf>...RN ~ll \\-\IS~ ~OJ'IJ£. 
Nt:.VER E'IEN 
GeNt: TO 
3:}\00L~ 


LVIN AND HOBBES 
()::., /ISSIGI'o{ n\E ~1-{SWER. f>... 1./fi...L\lE CJt-"X". "•( fl..LWfi..~S ~'tANS \'11\lLT\P\..'\, 9J Tf>.'f:£ ~E t--t\lt-JIE~f>..\Cl'K (\1-\t>..\S Lt\\11-{ 
RW."to{\ll'\B£R £\G\.ITER') I>.ND M 1\ii>-T CJ~ i\1~ Ci\WtR. Silk. cr 1\-\t.. t.~JJP..\\<J~. 
\ 

BILL WATTERSON  
11-\t>-1 ~..~~E.s 'iou 't-lmrn-I~E 01:-1. 1\\\S S\~t.. SO W\\!\1 111-\tS 1\\l<rr EQJMS EIG\11? 11-\t:. ~SW9?., Of (OJ~, IS S\'1,.  1\-\tst. I'RORI.IMS StEM fl..Wt\ILL~ f>-t)\j,b..t-\C£1) \\JR. FIRS\ G~\Jt:, If '100 t-6¥... ME.  

29 Small boy 31 Actress Meara 32 Hardy lass 33 Baseball stats 34Armbone 35 Stitch 37 Greek letter 40"-Are 
Woman," 1964 song 41 Set Fido loose 42 Go to court 
THE FAR SIDE 

47 Atelier gear 48 Sault-Marie 50 Opts 53 "Tiny Alice" 
playwright 55 Nettle 5&Red Sox or 
Celtics 57 Actress Best 58 Eastern 
European 60 Oiler, for one 61 Grown-up 
elvers 62 Cerise and 
vermillion 63 Squabble 66-rule 
(generally) 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
GARY LARSON 

-.. 
-

Sports 
Monday, September 3, 1990
page 16 

Scrimmage reveals little chemistry on offense 

-
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 

The last thing Lou Holtz wants is for sophomore quarterback Rick Mirer to carry the Notre Dame offense this year. 
Last season, Tony Rice could make up for inexperience in the offensive line with his quickness, leadership ability and winning reputation. The line grew into a cohesive unit that yielded three NFL draft choices, and Rice capped an impressive season with a fourth-place finish in the Heisman trophy voting. shadow over the future of the Irish 
Now the Irish lack experience not passing game. only on the offensive line, but in the "We're set at quarterback," said backfield as well. Center and quad­Holtz. "Rick Mirer is our quarterback, captain Mike Heldt and quick guard but we've got to give him some help. Tim Ryan are the sole returnees on a "It's unfair to expect a young quar­line which paved the way last season terback to do anything when you can't for 288 yards a game by Notre Dame give him the protection and running backs. game to go with it." 
Mirer is set at quarterback. but the Holtz has said throughout preseason offensive line's inability to protect him practice that he is looking for a quar­in scrimmages such as Saturday's in terback who will consistently put the Notre Dame Stadium casts an alarming ball in the endzone and stay away from 
The Observer I Andrew McCloskey 
Brian McDougal is one of three incoming freshman who may have an impact in backing up starting quarterback Rick Mirer. 
Football Ticket Sale Information 
Seniors: TODAY Juniors: Tuesday, Sept. 4 Law/Grad Students: Wednesday, Sept. 5 Sophomores: Thursday, Sept. 6 Freshmen: Friday, Sept. 7 

Issue Hours: 9:00 AM -8:00 PM 
Bring application, student 1.0. and remittance to Gate 10, JACC. One student may present maximum 4 applications and 1.0. cards. 
the "bad play." He does not, however, want Mirer to be the focal point of the Irish offense. 
In an effort to make the offense less predictable than in previous seasons, Holtz has installed several new forma­tions which blend a strong running game that features tailback Tony Brooks (seven carries for 48 yards Saturday) and fullback Rod Culver (eight, 74) with a short passing game 
see OFFENSE I page 13 
Freshmen filling in the gaps 
McDougal, Hawkins, Johnson gunning for backup QB 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 

Lou Holtz settled any ques­tion about Notre Dame's start­ing quarterback last spring and reiterated those statements after Saturday's scrimmage. 
"Rick Mire'r is our quarter­back," he said Saturday. "We're set at quarterback." 
After spring workouts, Holtz also thought he was set with a back-up quarterback in Jake Kelchner. ButKelchner was ex­pelled from the university for academic reasons following summer school. 
That left three freshmen­
B.J. Hawkins, Kevin McDougal and Clint Johnson-to compete for playing time this fall. It also meant those three would need to digest a lot of information in a short time. 
"All three are intelligent and have good athletic ability," said Irish quarterback coach Pete Cordelli. "It's just a matter of piecing everything together. We've thrown everything at them in a short time." 
Said Holtz, "All three have good talent and they all have different assets." 
If something should happen to Mirer, Holtz will look to one of the three freshmen, players who have yet to play a down of collegiate football. That might seem like a big burden, but all three bring impressive creden­tials to the Irish program. 
B.J. Hawkins never imagined that he would have so much to learn and that so much of it would be so difficult. 
"There's a lot to do, a lot to get done," Hawkins said. "It's crazy how much is thrown at you. They told us to think we're number one so we'll be ready." 
Like all of Notre Dame's other recruits, Hawkins was the star in high school. In his senior season at Potomac High School in Dumfries, Va., he completed 98-of-198 passes for 1,820 yards and 20 touch­downs. 
"The coach would just give 
me a play and it was up to me 
to put it in the endzone," 
Hawkins said. "He didn't care 
how I did it. If it was a pass 
play, I could run it in. If it was 
a run, I could pass. 

"In high school, I could make up for anything. I knew I could score. Coach Cordelli told us in practice that if we could score against this defense, we could score against anybody. You can do the right thing now, but.it's not good enough." 
Scout Max Emfinger called Hawkins the No. 9 "passing and running" quarterback in the nation and SuperPrep rated him the ninth overall quarter­back. He was the Gatorade Circle of Champions Player-of­the-Year in Virginia. 
Hawkins, who also averaged 
19.7 points per game in helping his high-school basketball team to a 22-game winning streak, could have chosen virtually any college in the nation. He opted for Notre Dame where he knew it would difficult just to be the third-string quarterback. 
"Coach Holtz believes in per­fection," Hawkins said. "There's a difference in believ­ing you can accomplish some­thing and believing in perfec­tion. When you reach for a goal like that, it separates you from everyone else." 
Hawkins also thought media and fan attention were reserved for the proven stars. He learned different in the first week of practice. 
"It surprised me that re­porters go after everybody," Hawkins said. "I haven't played a down yet and I've been sign­ing autographs. I expected it 
see QB's I page 12 
ND soccer rises to occasion 
Season opener: 5-1 in OT 
~y RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
The debut of men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli was a successful one, as the Irish downed the Dayton Flyers 5-1 in overtime in front of a crowd of 1,000 at Alumni Field. 
After two early goals, both teams had trouble finding the back of the net, until the beginning of the first overtime period when the Irish exploded for four goals in the first 12 minutes. 
Sophomore Kevin Pendergast had a hat trick for Notre Dame, scoring all three of his goals in the overtime, the first of which came on a penalty kick after he was pulled down in the goal box. Kenyon Meyers scored the other OT goal for ND. 
The Flyers caught the Irish off guard early when Nick Igel scored after only two-and-a­half minutes of action. Notre Dame tied the score at 16:10 of the first-half on a goal by Danny Stebbins. 
There was no more scoring in the regula­tion period, although not for lack of oppor­tunities. The Irish had a number of scoring chances, the best of which came late in the first-half. 
Notre Dame scoring wizard Kevin Pendergast had several shots that narrowly missed the goal. He beat the Dayton keeper on a deft move. only to shoot the ball about a foot wide of goal. With just 40 seconds left in 
see SOCCER I page 14 

The Observer 



